Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



Schlesinger Library 
Radcliffe College 



Culinary Collection 



nniMi- 



I 



f in 



•^ 



C OI, LECTION 

Of above Three Hundred 

RECEIPTS 

I N 

Cookery y Phyfici, and Surgery -, 

For the U S E of all 

Good Wives, Tender Mothers, 
and Careful Nurses. 



By Several Hands^ 



The FIFTH EDITION. 



To whi<?h is Added, 

A S E C O N D P A R T, 



CONTAINI N'G 



A great Number of Excellent Receipts, for Prefirvmg 
and Confervingof Sweet-Meats> &c. 



L ND N: 

Printed^for the Executrix of Mary Kettilby} and ibid 
bj W. Parx£r, at the Kinfs Head in St. Fm^s Church-yard. 

M DCC XXXIV. 









\ 

m 
*' 



* ~, •. ' • 



I t 



* » 



/ 



THE 

PREFACE- 

iO THING can be morefelf-evi- 
denty than that the Ufefulneh^ and 
confequentfyy the Value of Books of 
this hJndyde fends upon the Integrity 
and Care of the pfriters^ the Pains 
they take 'themfehes^ and the good Help md 
jljji fiance they can procure fromOthers. ^anyof 
ihefi Requifites he wanting^ they mufl neceJparUy 
deceive the Keader^ he deceiv'd 7%em/elveSy or^ 
at be fly produce nothing hut whafs Mean and 
7'rifitngy and unworthy a Publick Reception* 
'There is nothing Jo eafy^ as the raifing whole 
Regiments of Noftrum'j and Recipe' j, if we 
will hut admit all the Foluntiers of this kindy 
asfaji as they croud in, to be lijied\ hat theft 
forward Ones are generally found to fail us in 
the time of Trial j and the Succefs of the Day 
mofi commonly to depend uponfuch as with great 
Trouble and Expence are prefs'd and drag^d 
into the Service. 

A a M 



jv PREFACE. 

As for tnyfelf^ J have only to affure the Readen 
that as the Dejire of doing Good was the fole 
Motive that at jirfi enga^d me in this Work ; 
fo has that great ^rincifle ever been too f acred 
in my E/ieem^ tojuffer the leaft Mixture ofUn^ 
faithfulnefs or Carelejpnefs throughout the whole 
Management and Comfojure of it : And farther 
to declare^ That there has been no Spare either 
of Labour^ or Ttme^ or Money ^ in order to the 
making this Colleftion the beji and moji truly 
Profitable in its kind:^ and that the great Know- 
ledge^ and long Experience of thofe Excellent 
Perjons who contributed to its ^roduiiion^ have 
abundantly qualify d them for fetting the laji 
Hand to fnch a ff^ork. ' T^o thefe therefore are 
due the greateji Tribute of Praife^ and highejl 
Acknowledgments of Gratitude^ who with a 
Jsfoble Charity and tlniverfal Benevolence^ have 
Exposed to the World fuch invaluable Secrets^ as 
others^ of a lefs generous Temper^ would have 
taken • a ^ride in^ and made almoji a Merit ofy 
Concealing. 

And here I freely own the great e/i Share of 
our J'hanks to be juftly owi)7g to the Fair Sex ; 
whO'i whether it be from the greater Tendernefs 
of their Natures^ the greater Opportunities of 
Leijtire^ or Advantages of acquiring Experience^ 
or from whatever other Caufe^ are always -found 
mofl ABive and Indufirious in this^ as well as 
\p,all other kinds of Charity. Oh^ Heavenly 

Charity / 



\ 



PREFACE. V 

Charity ! how often have If em thee employ the 
Rich in waiting upon the ^oor^ and Mijireffes 
in Nurfing^ and becoming Hand^maids to their 
own Servants ? How often have I feen thee makz 
Perfbns of the Highefi ^ality kneel down to 
the DreJJing of a Poor Man's Wound ? J'hofe 
of the greatefi Nicenejs and DeUc3cy of SenfCj 
vifit the Chambers offuchy whofe Poverty and 
Offenjive Difiempers have rendered them Nau-- 

feous and Loathfbme beyond Exprejjion f? And 
thofe (f Tender and ffeakly Conjiitutions walk 

^ thro* Midnight Frofts to the jyjiflance offome 
Poor Neighbouring Woman in her Painful and. 
Perilous Hour^ ? And wonderful is the Succefs 
with which Almighty God does often bkfs their 
Labours (even in the Ufe of Plain and Simpte^ 
Means J whofe Hearts he frft difpofes to fuch 
Beneficial Undertakings. How earneftly is if 
to be wifh'dy that fuch Examples did more uni^^ 
verfally abound^ and that all our j^ne^ Ladies 
woiild frive to adorn their Character s^ by be-^ 
coming (to ufe the "judicious Mr. BickerftafF'j 
PhrafeJ Notable Women ? 

l^or can I forbear recommending this Generous 
and Benefcial Practice to the Gentlemen of the 
Clergy, efpeciaUy to thofe whofe Parties are re^ 
mote from other Help. How foon would their 
fuperior Learning and Sagacity render them Mas- 
ters of this UfefulArt ? How greatly would the 
Exercife of it endear them to their People ? H^hat 
Reverence and Efteem^ and confec^uentlyy what 

A 3 Oppor-' 



vi PREFACE. 

Opportunities cf doing, Good in every other fVajj 
would this procure them ? And with what 
Vower and Authority would their Divine In^ 
flru£Hons enter into the Hearts of their Audi^ 
ence^ when proceeding from the Mouth of fuch 
a Benefactor y to whom^ under God^ perhaps tnofi 
of them are beholden for their Healthy their 
iimhsy or^ it may he^ their very Lives ? 7%is 
wiU be to imitate their Great Majlery who went 
about doing Goody aftd healing all thofe who 
were opprefs*d by the Devily and whoy where^ 
ever He met a Patient y Jeldomfaitd of making , 
a Convert. 

I make no Doubty but the Learned Gentlemen 
of the Faculty wiU be too Generous to Mifcon^ 
jlrue this JmaU CoWt&ion of Phyfical Receipts, 
(dejigndfor the Service of thofe who are neither 
within the Reach of their VifitSy nor in a Capa^ 
city of dratijying their Trouble J as an Inva/ion 
of their Province^ or a Difrefpe£i to their ^er^ 
Jons. I declare myjelffo far from intendin^ither 
ofthefcy thaty on tie contrary y lejieem it a great 
Happinefs andBleJJing to be able to have a ready 
and conjiiint Recourje td their AjH/iance. And I 
am proud to owny that fnoji ^ the jolhwing 
Prefcriptions came from the mofl Eminent 
Hands in that Profeffton. fhe reji are all Inno-- 
cent and Safe ; ana both the one and the other 
Approved (not from fngle Injlances of Succefsy 
but J from a long and repeated Experience* 



th 



e 



PREFACE. vii 

^he Direiiions relating /(> C o o k e k y are 
Palatabky Ufeful^ and Intdli^ibie^ which is more 
than can be faid of any now Publick in that 
kind ; fome great mafters having given us Rules 
in that Artjb firangely oddandfantaftical^ that 
*tis hard to fay ^ Whether the Reading has given 
more Sport and Diver jion^ or the Practice more 
Vexation and Chagriny in fpoiling us many a 
good Dijby by following their DireBions. But 
Jo it isy that a Poor Woman mufl be laugh* d aty 
for only Sugaring a Mefs of Beans j whilft a 
Great Name mtifi be had in Admiration^ for 
Contriving Relijhes a thoufand times moreDif- 
tafful to the Palate y provided they are hut at 
tloe fame time mote Expenjhe to the Purfe. 

/ can ajffure yoUy that a Number of very Cu^ 
rious and DelicateHoufe^wives Clubl/dtojurnifb 
out this Colle0iony for the Service ofToung and 
Unexperienced Damesy who may from hence he 
Inftru^pd in the Polite Management of their 
Kitchens y and the Art of Adorning their fables 
with a Splendid Frugality. Nor do I defpair 
but the life of it may defcend into a Lower Formy 
and teach Cookrmaids at Country 'Inns toferve 
us up a very agreeable Mealy from fiich Provijions 
as are Plainefiy and always at hand j injiead of 
Spoiling thofe which are moji Rare and Cofllyy 
and provoking the Company topafs them awiyy 
in hajiy Curfesy to the Place from whence the 

A 4 mluch^ 



/ 



viu PREFACE. 

Wilucly Proverb fupfofes them to have come ; 
andfo quit Scores with him thatfent them. 

^e Wines which you are here taught to make^ 
are certainly of the greateji Perfeifion in their 
Kind \ their Flavour and Tafle are Generoasy 
and their Ingredients are Wholefome ; and Jo 
lacky have their Authors Been in their Imita- 
tion, that ma/ry very good Criticks have not only 
efteem'd them the genuine Produce, hat of the 
ttobkr Sorts too, of the Foreign Vintages. 

TTjus much, I think, may fuffice hy way of 
Preface ; and lejs I could not pojfibly fay with 
any tolertihle Regard, either to the Merits of 
tmfe worthy Perfons to whom I am indebted, or 
the Intereji of thofe whom I am endeauourtm 
U oblige, who, thro' Ignorance or Prejudice^ 
might otherwije have depriv'd them/elves of fb 
very UJeful and Beneficial an Undertaking. 



A C O L- 



A 

COLLECTION 

OF 

RECEIPTS 

I N 

COOKER Y,&'c. 

A Green Peas-Soup, 'without Meat. 

SAKE your Peas, and i,n fliel- 
J ling, feparaic ihe young from 

Sthe old, then boil the. old ones 
foft enough to ftrain through 
a Cullender ; then put the Li- 
quor, and what you ftrain'd through, toge- 
ther ; With the young Peas whole, add 
ibmc whole Pepper, two or three Blades of 
Mace, and fome Cloves. When the Jaft 
Peas are near enough, take fome Spinage, 
"■ aJittlc 



10 A Colledfon of Receipts 

a litde Mint, and a little green Onion, not 
ihrcd too fmall, a little Faggot of Thyme, 
and Sweet-marjoram ; put thefe into a little 
Sauce-pan witn nfcar a Pound of Butter j and 
as they boil up, Ihake in fome Flour, to 
boil with it to the Quantity of a Dredging*^ 
box full ; then put a Loaf of Fnncb Bread 
into the Broth to boil ; mingle the Broth 
and Herbs together : When you have fea- 
fon'd it to your Tafte for Salt, add fbmc 
imall white Toaft neatly cut^ and the young 
Peas, 

A very good Soup. 

TAKE a Shin of Beef, a Crag of Mutton 
or Veal, and a Bit of very good Bacon^ 
and half a Pound of Rice ^ fet them on the 
Fire in as much Water, as you think will 
boil them to Rags ; keep it coyer'd all the 
while : When all the Goodneis of the Meat 
is out, firain it oJB^ and put to it fbihe 
whole Pepper, fome Cloves, Mace, and Salt 
to your Tafte. You may put Soup Herbs^ 
or a qiiarter of a Pound of plump'd Rice or 
Verma-jelly ; boil a French Loaf, or two or 
three Pidgeons, for the middle ; put in, 
with the Spice, a little Faggot of Thyme, 
Savory, and Marjoram : This makes an in- 
comparable Peas Soup, if you put in a Quart 
of Peas with the Meat at firft, inftead of 
Rice. 

^verji 



i 



t 

in Cookery, &c. II 

ji toery good Peas-Soupi i 

■I ■ \ 

PU T three or four Founds of lean coarfe 
Beef, with three Pints of Peas, into two 
Gallons of Water ; let it boil, till the Meat 
is all to Rags ; and half an Hour before you 
firain it out, put in two or three Anchovies ; 
then firain it from the Husks and Meat, and 
put into the Sauce-pan as much as you want 
for that M^al, with an Onion iluck with 
Cloves, a Race of Ginger bruis'd, a little 
Faggot of Thyme, Savory, and Parfly, and 
a little Pepper ; let it boil thus near half an 
Hour : Stir in a Piece of Butter, and fry 
fome Forc'd-meat Balls, Bacon, and French 
Bread cut in Dice, with Spinage boiPd green^ 
to put to it ii the Diih. 

To make Craw-Fiflh, or Prawn^Soup^ 

TAKEfixWhitings, one large Eel, with 
half a Thorn-back, clean them as to 
boil, and put them into a Pot, with as much 
Water as will cover them ; fcum them clean, 
and put in whole Pepper, Mace, Ginger, 
Thyme, Parfly, and an Onion ftuck With 
Cloves, with a little Salt, fo let them boil 
to Mafli ; then take fifty Cr^w-fifh, or, if 
they cannot be got, take an hundred Prawns, 
take out the Tails, and pick out the Bag, 

and 



12 A ColkSiion of Receipts 

and all the Woolly Farts that are about the 
Body J put all into a Sauce-pan with Water 
and Vinegar, Lemon, Salt, and a Bunch of 
fweet Herbs ; let them ftew over a gentle 
Fire, till ready to boil ; then take out the 
Tails, and fave them carefully \ but beat all 
the other Shells in t^e little Liquor they were I 
ftewM in, which, with a French Roll, you ' 

muft beat, till the Shells are extremely fine : 
When you have walh'd all the Goodnefs out 
with their own Liquor, pour the other Fifli 
Liquor thro' the Shells, and ilrain all from 
the Fifti and Grit ; then have a large Carp 
ready ftcw'd, and lay it in the middle of the 
Difh ; add the Body of a Lobfter to the Soup, 
with fome ftrong Gravy, and burnt Butter j 
heat the Tails of the Craw-fi& in the Soup, 
and pour all over the Carp. 

Peas-Soup for Lent, or any Fajilng 

"Day. 

"P U T a Quart of good breaking Peas to fix^ 
* Quarts of Water, and boil them till they 
are tender ; then take out ibme of the clear 
Liquor, and ftrain the Seas as clean as you 
can, from the Husks : Take fome Butter, 
and boil it ; and when it breaks in the middle, 
put to it an Onion and fome Mint, cut very 
fmall J Spinage, and Sorrel, and a little Cel-^ 
Icry, cut large • ftir it often, and let it boil 
about a quarter of an Hour j then Ihake in 
3 fome 



in Cookery, &c. ij 

fome Flour with one Hand, and ibmc of 
your thin Liquor with the other ; then put 
in the thick ftrain'd Liquor fome Pepper,. 
Mace, and Salt, and boil it an Hour longer ; 
then put into as much as will make a large 
Dilh, one Pint of fweet thick Cream ; put a 
French Roll crifp'd, and dipp'd in Milk, in 
the middle of the Difli. 

To make a Mca,t-^Soup, 'very good. 

np A K E a Piece of coarlc Neck Beef, a Crag 
-* of Mutton, and a Knuckle of Veal ; boil 
all thefe to Rags, with Salt, and Onion, and 
whole Pepper ; when there is no more Good- 
nefs left in the Meat, ftrain the Liquor into 
a Stew-pan, and fct it over the Fire ; put 
into it Cloves, and Mace, and a little Lcmoa 
Peel ; let it boil a little, then put in a, Pint 
of ftrong Clareti three or four Anchovies, 
with Gravy fquecz'd^ out of a lean Piece of 
Beef fry'd for that Purpofe ; put in Ox Pa- 
lates cut in Dice, let them be firft boird ve- 
ry tender, Veal Sweetbreads boil'd. Lettuce, 
Endive, Spinage, or what Herbs you plcale, 
boird green ; then take French Bread, cut 
it thin, aiid toaft it ; lay your Palates, 
Sweetbreads, and Herbs over all theToafts: 
Have a Fowl boiled, and the Breaft fluffed 
with Tore* d-meat, and lay in the 'middle of 
the Difh j pour the Soup over all. ' 

To 



[14 -A CoUeSlm of Receipts 
To Collar Beef; a very good Way, 

TAKE a Piece of Flank-Beef, cut it 
Iquare, and take off the inner Skin ; 
make a Brine of Water and Bay-falt, ftrong 
enough to bear an Egg, to the Breadth of a 
Six- pence ; let the Beef lie in it one Week, 
then rub it all over with Salt-petre, and let 
it lie three Days longer ; then take one 
Ounce of white Pepper, one large Nutmeg^ 
the Weight of it in Mace, and the Weight 
of both in Cloves ^ beat it all grofly, and 
firew upon the Beef ; then roll it up hard, 
bind it with a Tape, and few it up in a 
Cloth, and put it in a long Earthen Pan ; 
fill it up with half Claret, and half Water; 
cover it clofe with a coarfe Pafte, and bake 
it twelve Hour^ in a very hot Oven ; then 
take off the Tape, and roll the Cloth very 
hard about it again, tie it up, and hang it up 
to drain and cool : If you like Herbs, Thyme, 
Sweet-marjoram, and Farfly Ihred, are the 
proper Sort ; but it does not roll fo clofe 
with as without. It cannot be bak'd too 
tender. 

To make French-Cutlets, very good. 

OKIN a Loin of Mutton, and cut \t into 
^ Stakes ; then take feme of the Lean of a . 

Leg of Veal, the Weight in Becf-fuet, two \ 

Anchovies, 



i« Cookery, c3^f. 15 

Anchovies, Thyme, Parfly, Sweet-marjoram, 
and Onion, all finely flired ; Nutmeg, Pep- 
per, Salt, and grated Bread, with the Yolks 
of two Eggs ; make Holes in the Lean of 
the Stakes, and fill them full of this Seafon- 
ing, and ipread it all oyer the Stakes, then 
butter as many Pieces of white Paper, as 
you have Cutlets, and wrap them up every 
one by themfelves ; turn up the Edges of 
the Papers with great Care, that none of the 
Moifture get out j therefore let the Papers 
be large enough to turn up feveral times at 
the Edge ; and, if Occafion be, ftick a Pin, 
to keep it all in ; for this Gravy is all their 
Sauce : When they are thus tight wrapp'd 
up, put them upon a Mazarine, and bake 
them ; when they are enough, take them 
off the Difli they were bak'd on, and put 
them on a clean hot Dilh ; do not take off 
. the Papers, but fcr ve them in as they were 
bak'd : This is a very delicious favoury 
Difh, and done with litle Danger of fpoiling, 
if you wrap them up clofe. Many People 
like thefe beft wifhout Sauce j but if you 
chufe it, let it be ftrong Gravy, Spice, Oni- 
on, flired Capers, Juice of Lemon Ihook up 
with a Bit of Butter ; but they are favoury 
and mofi: wholefome alone. 



To 



1 6 A Colk^iion of Receipts 

To Collar a Breafi e)/' Mutton, to Eat 

Hot. 

TA K E a large Breaft of Mutton, bone ft^ 
and take out all the Griftles, rub it alt 
over with the Yolk of an Egg, fcafon it with 
Pepper, Salt, and Nutmeg, Parfly, Thyme, 
S>ycet-marjoram, all j(hrqd Iniall, Shallot, if 
you love it ; walh and cut Anchovy in Bits^ 
Srew all this over the Meat, roll it up hard, 
tie it with a Tape, and put it into boiling 
Water ; when 'tis tender, take it out, cut it 
in round Slices, holTtoo thin j pour over it a 
Sauce made of Gravy, Spice, Anchovy, Cla- 
ret, Onion, a few fweet Herbs, ftrain'd and 
thicken'd with Butter, and flired Pickles. 
Garnifh with Pickles.- 



-. . * 



T 



lb »Sfc"ay-]Pidgeons. 

AKE fix Pidgeons .with their Giblets, 
cut the Pidgeons in (juarters, and put 
them in the Stiew-pan^ w«t*h two Blades of 
I^ace, a little Pepper and Salt, and juft 
Water enough to ftevv theniAvithout burning; 
when they are tender, thicken the Liquor 
with the y oUc of one Egg, three Spoonfuls 
of thick fweet Cream, a Bit of Butter, and 
a little fhred Thyme and Parfly j Ihake them 
all up together, and garnifii it with Lemon.. ^ 



^^^m^m^^m^-^^^ma^^ 



in Cookery, &c, \^ 

» 

To hroil Pigeons whole. 

/^ U T off the Wings and Neck dole, leaye 
^^ the Skin at the Neck to tie clofc, then 
have fome grated Bread, two Pigeons Li^- 
vers, one Anchovy, a quarter^ of a Pound 
of Butter, half a Nutmeg grated, a little 
Pepper and Salt, a very little Thyme and 
Sweet-marjorum flired : Mix all together j 
put a Piece as big as a Wallnut into each 
rigeon, few up your Rumps and Necks, 
ftrew a little Pepper, Salt and Nwtmeg on 
the Out-fide, broil them on a very flo>y Char- 
coal-fire on the Hearth J bafte and turn them 
very often. Sauce is melted Butter j or rich 
Gravy, if you like it higher tailed- 



To !Drefs a Turbi^.,j&r any ^ijh of 




T A Y the Fifh yoii are to tjbil, into a Pint 
■*^ of Vinegar, fejitfon'd with Salt, Pepper, 
Onion, and a Fagot of Thyme, Marjoram 
and Parfly j when it has - lain an Hour, piit 
the Fifh with the Pickle carefully . into your 
B^ifli-kettle of boiling Water j to it put Cloves, 
Mace and Anchovies, and a Bit of Horfe- 
iradifh ; when they are enough, take them 
out to drain, let the Ground of your Sauce 
be half a Pint of the well feafon'd Liquor 
in^ which they were boird, and the ftrainM 

B Liquor 



1 8 A €oJk£im of Receipts 

Liquor of a Q&art of Qyfters, with half « 
pint of White- wine, and the Body of a large 
Lobfler ; add to it a little more. Spice, and 
a littleof Lemon-peel, and one large, or two 
fmall AnchoYies ; then ftrain it, and put to 
this Quantity a full Pound and half of But- 
ter ; into one piece of which ftrew as much 
Flour aS' will make it of a fit Thicknefi: 
Your Oyftcrs^ muft be firft ftew^d, and the 
Tail and Claws of your Lobfter cut in Dice, 
and both put into the Sauce to heat, when 
'tis ready to pour on the Fifh. FryM Smelts, 
fry'd Parfly, fcrapM Horfe-radifli, and flic'd 
Lcnion, with the following Patties, is theGar- 
nilh. Notey That the Liquor of any well- 
^tafted Filh, is more agreeable to the Tafte of 
Fifh than any Sort of rich Grayy made' with 
Flefti : And I believe . you canoor err, in 
dreffing Fifli by this Rule for the Sauce. 
NoUj Neyer boil in too much Liquor, nor 
too fail. 



Patties, far a T>i/b of Fijh. 



T 



A K E a Carp or fat Eel^ bone and Ihred 
it very finall ; to half a Pound of this 
put four Ounces of Butter, which you muft 
mix in the ftiredding j boil four Eggs in the 
Shell, not hard, but as for eating, and put 
in the Yolfcs of thofe Eggs a very fmall 
Nutmeg grated, about the Weight in Mace^ 
finely beat, as much Salt as both, and a very 

little 



in Cooifery, &c, 19 

little Parfly finely ihred ; mix this very well, 
and put them into Jittlc Square Pafties of hot 
Cruft, or PufF-cruft, if you like it better : 
Fatten them very well, and fry them in a 
large Pan- full of Lard, clarified Butter, Suet 
or Oil. You may roll this Forc'd-fifh into 
Balls with grated < Bread ; lay tt^em rounds 
-and upon your Fifh, 

To fickle Pork, a gcod Way: 

T3 ON E it, and cut it into fuch Pieces a$ 
•■^ will lie moft convenient in your Pow- 
dering-tub, which muft be large and found 
to hold the Meat and preferve the Brine ; the 
narrower arid deeper your Tub is, the better 
^twill keep the Meat ; rub every Piece well 
with Salt-ipetrC) then take one Part Bay-falt, 
iind two Parts common Salt, and rub every 
Piece very well, and cover it with Salt, as 
you do a Flitch of Bacon j then ftrew Salt 
. in the Bottom of your Tub, and lay the 
l^ieces in as clofe as poffible, ftrewing Salt 
round the Sides of the Tub : As your Salt 
melts on the Top, drew on more. It will 
Iteep a great while, and is very good. 

To Collar ^ Pig. 

SPLIT It tip the Belly and Back, then 
take out all the Bones, walh it clean 
from the Blood, and \iy it to foak in a Pap 

B a of 



lo . A CdUSiion of Receipts 

of Water a Day and Night, .fliifting the 
Witer as it grows red ; then take it out. and 
wipe it very dry, ftrcw all the Infide of both 
Pieces very well with Salt, Pepper, Cloves, 
Mace and Nutmeg beat and grated ; then 
roll them up ai hard and tight as you poC- 
fibly dan in two Collars, bind them with a 
long Tape as clofc as 'twill lie, and after that 
few them up in Cloths: The Liquor you 
boil them in muft be a Quart of White- 
wine, a little good Vinegar, and the reft 
Water ; there muft be a great deal more than 
will cover ihem, becaufe they muft boil 
leifurely above three Hours ; put into the 
Liquor a Piece of Ginger, a Nutmeg cut in 
Pieces,' a few Cloves, and two Blades of 
Mace, a Sprig of Bays, and a few Leaves of 
Sage, with fome Salt ; when they are ten- 
der, take them up, and fqueeze them tight 
in the Cloth, that they may come out in 
fliape : When the Liquor they were horl'd 
in is cold, add half a Pint of Vinegar, and 
keep the Collars in it. 

To make Veal-Cuclets. 

f^ U T as many Slices of a Leg of Veal as 
^^ will make a handlbme Difh, beat them 
with your Rolling-pin, lay them fingle in a 
large Difh, and grate Nutmeg all over them, 
and ftrew them with Salt, lard fome with 
Bacon and pour the Yolks of three Eggs, 

well 



f« Cookeiry^ c^f/ ¥i^ 

well beaten, over all ; make them all moift 
with the Egg/ and fry them of a fine ^oip^r 
in Clarified Butter ; put frelh Frying to every 
Difti ; When they are all nicely fry'd, f)ut 
fome Gravy into the Pan, and the Juice of a 
Lemon, with Butter and Flour fiiook in*j 
toft up all 'till 'tis thick, and power it over 
the Cutlets j garniih with Bits of Bacon fry 'dL 
and Forc'd-meat Balls. If it be a Cow-Calf, 
fill the Udder and Fat with the Forc'd-meat, 
and roaft it finely for the Middle. Make 
your.Gravy for the Sauce, of the Bones and 
Skins you do not ufe ; a Bit of Beef, Sweet- 
herbs, Spice, and White- wine, to make it 
look p^Cf 

3t> make Dutch-Beef, a verj good way, 

TAKE eight Pound of Buttock-Beef with- 
out Bone, rub it all over with fix Ounces 
of coarfe Sugar; let it lie two Days, then 
wipe it a little ; then take fix Ounces of Salt- 
petre beaten, a Pint of Petre-falt, and a Pint 
of White-falt, jrub it well in,, and let it lie 
three Weeks, rubbing and turning it every 
Day ; then few it up in a Cloth, and hang 
it in your Chimiiey to dry ; turn it upfide 
down every Day, that the Brine do not 
fettle : Boil it iii Pump-water 'till ^tis yery 
tender. 



Vii 



»• I 



B 3 To 



^ h .«i 



St A CtlU0ion of Receipts 



^ t 



^'Fricajfey Chickcns/or Sweet-Breads. 

'HP A K E two or three Chickens (if fmall) 
-* wafh them clean frpm the Blood,, and 
cut them to Pieces, not too fmall, fet them 
on in as much W ater as will cover them ; 
when they boil up, fcum them very clejiti, 
then take them out and ftrain the Liquor ; 
take Part of it, to which put fome Pepper 
whole\nd beaten, a Blade or two of Mace, 
and Salt to your Tafte, a little Lemon* peel, 
a very fmall Onion ftuck with three or four 
Cloves, a quarter of a Pint of White-wine 
warm'd and put to it : Boil all thefe tpge-. 
ther 'till the Chickens are enough j xhen take 
three Spoonfuls of Cream, a little Flour mix*d 
with it, andput to the Chickens ; ftiakeit well 
over the Fire 'till it begins to thicken ; thert 
take the Yolks of two Eggs well beatten, a lit- 
tle grated Nutmeg and Juice of Lemon beat 
together with the Eggs;* mix thefe with the 
Liquor very carefully, by little and little, for 
fear it curdle ; put in half i Pound of goodBut-- 
ter, and ftiake it together 'till that be melted. 



Another for the fame. ^ 



T 



A K E three Chickens,: flay them, an^ 
cut them into pieces, put them into a 
Stewrpan, with as much Gravy and Water 
»s will juft coyer them ; put in two An^ 

^phovi^s^ 



in Cookery, i^{. ij 

chovies, fomc whole Pepper, fome Salt, and 
a Blade of Mace, a fmall Onion, with a few 
Cloves ; fet them to ftew, and when they 
are almoft enough, take them from the Li- 
quor, and fry them in Vinegar, . but a very 
little ; ftrain the Liquor, and take as muqh 
of it as you ihall want for Sauce, and add to 
it a little Parfley, Thyme, and' Sorrel; boiled 
green, and ihred finaU, half, a Pint of thick 
Cream, two Yolks of Eggs well beaten, fomc 
grated Nutmeg; Ihake all over the Fire •till 
'tis thick, throw in half a Pound pf Butter, 
and iibake ic 'till that is melted^ 



To Stenso. a Hare*. . 

PULL your Hare to pieces, and bruife 
the Bones, and put it into a Stew-pan, 
with three Pints of ftwng Broth, and at the 
fame time put in an Onion, and a Faggot of 
Sweet-herbs ; kt it ftew. leifurely for foyr 
Hours, then put in a Pint of Qaret ; let it 
ftew two or three Hours longer, Yill 'tis ten- 
der ;. take out what Bones you can find, with 
the Herbs and Onions, if not diffolv'd ; put 
in an Anchovy or two with the Claret: 
Stewing, fp long, if will be thicjc enough; 
you need only fhake it up with half a Pound 
pf flitter, when ready for the Table, 



Z' 



B 4 fo 



24 A CoJleStion of Receipts 

To koafi a CalfVHead- . 

AFTER the Head is nicely wafhM and 
^^ pick'd, take out the Brains and Tongue ; 
make a large Quantity x>f Forc'd-meat, with 
Veal and Suet well feafon'd, fill the Hole 
of the Head ; skewer it^ and tie it together 
upon the Spit : One Hour and an half roafts 
it : Beat up the Brains with a little Sage and 
Parfly finely fiired, a little Salt, and the Yolks 
of two or three Eggs ; boil and blanch the 
Tongue, cut it in large Dice, and fry that 
and the Brains, as alfo fome of the Forced- 
meat in Balls, and fome Slices of Bacon. 
The Sauce is ftrong Broth, with Qyfters, 
Muflirooms, Capers, and a little Wbite-winc 
thicfcenM, 



To Force a Leg of Lamb. 



s 



LIT the Leg of Lamb down on the 
Wrong-fide, and take out all the Meat, 
as near as you can, without cutting or 
crackmg the Qut-fide Skin; beat it very 
fmall, with its Weight in good frefix Suet ; 
add to it twelve large Oyfters, two Ancho- 
vies, both neatly walh'd, and the Anchovies 
nicely bon'd ; feafon it with Pepper, Salt, 
Mace, and Nutmeg, a little Thyme and 
Parfly nicely flired j beat all very fine toge-? 
tiicr, and mix it up with the Yolks of three 

Eggs 5 



Eggs ; fill the Skiii again with the Meat, and 
lew it up very carefully. The Meat that is 
left out muft be fry'a for Garnifh to the 
Loin which you muft Fricaffey as you do 
Chickens, and lay under the Leg of Lamb. 
You muft tie the Leg on to the Spit, for any 
Hole will fpoil the Meat ; but *tis cafy to 
faften the Back to the Spit with Pack-thread. 
In your Fricaffey for this Lamb, leave : out 
the Cream, and add a little Oyfter-liquor, 
and fry'd Oyfters. 

fTbe heft way to^ot Beef, mohuh is as 

good as Ventfon. 

np A K E a Piece of lean Buttock-Hecf, rub 
* it over with Salt-petre ; let it lie one 
Night, then take it out and fait it very well 
with white and Bay-falt, put it into a Pot 
juft fit for it, cover it with Water, and let 
it lie four Days ; then wipe it well with a 
Cloth, and rub it with Pepper finely beaten; 
put it down clofe into a Pot without any 
Liquor, cover the Pot dole with Pafte, and 
let it bake with large Loaves fix Hours at 
leaft ) then take it out, and, when ^tis cold, 
pick it clean from the Skins and Strings, and 
beat it in a Stone-Mortar very fine ; then 
feafon it with Nutmeg, Cloves, and Mace 
finely beaten, to your Tafte, and pour in 
melted Butter, which you may work up 
with it like 9 Pafte : Put i(; clofe down and 

even 



%6 A ColkSiion of Receipts 

jcvcn in your Pots, and coyer it with clarifyM 
Butten 

To make Lobftcr-Loavcs. 

PI CK out all the Meat of three little Lob* 
ftets, flired it a little ; take a piece of 
Butter, and brown it with Flour in a Sauce- 
pan : then ftir in a very little Onion and 
Parfly ftired very fine, and put in a little Pep* 
per, a Spoonful of Anchovy Liquor, three 
or four Spoonfuls of good Gravy, three Yolks 
of Eggs well beat ; flir all thefe over the 
Fire in the brown Butter, then put in the 
Lobftcr, and ftir it a little together : Take 
three French Rolls, and cut a round Piece off 
the top of each, and pick out the Crunib^ 
but do not break the Holes throughi the Sides 
of the Bread ; fill up the Roll with the Mix* 
ture you have prepared ; put on the Piece of 
Top you cut oJflF, clofe, and tie them round 
with a Piece of Tape : Make fbme Dripping 
boiling hot in your Frying-pan ; and when 
you have juft dipt the Roll in Milk, throw 
\i into the Pan-full of fcalding Liquor :-When 
they are crifp, take them out, and take off 
the Tape : Be lure to put in three times a$ 
much Parfly as Onion. Thus you may do 
Shrimp or Oy{ler^Loaves% 



f» 



in Cookery, ^c, 27 

To Roafi a Breafl of Portt, 



~N. 



OU T of your Quarter cut off only a 
Knuckle, leaving as much Skin on the 
Breafl: as you can ; take pflf the Neck, and 
leave a very large Bread ; bone it, and rub 
it with Salt pretty well all over ; then take 
Sage and a little Thyme flired fmall, a whole 
Nutmeg and a little Gloves and Mace finely 
beaten; ftrew the Spice and Herbs very 
thick all over the Meat, and rub it in ; then 
roll it tight up, with the Flefti inward, ftitch 
it fafl: together, and roafl: it length wife 'till 
^^s full enough done. 

To Hafh a Calf VHcad, 

XJOIL your CalfVHead 'till the Meat is 
v-^-* near enough for eating ; take it up, and 
put it in thin Slices j then* take, half a Pint of 
White-wine, and three quarters of a Pint of 
good Gravy, or ftrong Broth ; put to this 
Liquor, two Anchovies, half a Nutmeg, and 
a little Mace, a fmall Onion ftuck with 
Cloves ; boil this upi in the Liquor a quar-r 
tcf of an Hour, then ftrain it, and let it 
boil up again ; when it does fo, throw In 
the Meat, with a little . Salt to your Tafte, 
^nd fome Lemon-peel !fhred fine j let it ftew 
9 little, and, if you pleafe, addSiwcet-breads : 
^ak? For^M-meat Balls of- Vfi^lj: mix the 

Brains 



I 

a 8 A C6lle£iion of Receipt si 

Brains with the Yolks of Eggs, and fry them,' 
to lay for Gamiflu When rhe Head is ready 
to be fenc in, fliake in a Bic of Butter. 

To tDrefs HogVFcet ap^ Ears the 

befi Way. 

Tf/ HEN they arc nicely cleanM, put them 
^ into a Pot, with a Bay-leaf, and a large 
Onion, and as much Water a3 will cover 
them ; feafon it with Salt and a little Pepper ; 
bake them with Houlhold Bread ; keep them 
in this Pickle 'till you want them, then take 
them out and cut them in handfome Pieces; 
fry them, and take for Sauce three Spoon- 
fuls of the Pickle 9 fhak'e in fbme Flour, 4 
Piece of Butter, and a Spqonfiil of Muftard : 
Lay the Ears in the middle, the Feet round, 
and pour the Sauce over. 

To Collar a Brcaft of Veal, to eat 

Hot. 

'15 ONE your Veal; take fome Thyme, 
^^ S\yeet.marjoram, Pepper, Salt, grated 
Nutmeg, and beaten Mace, fhred Suet, and 
Crumbs of Bread, with a few Oyfters j beat 
all thefe in a Mortar, to mix it together ; 
ftrew it thick over the Veal ; then roll it 
up into a Collar; then few it tight in a 
Cloth, and boil it three Hours. Make your 
Sauce as for a. white. Fricaffey, thicken'di 

witl^ 



in Cookery^ &c. 19 

with Cream, and Yolks of Eggs, boiling the 
Bones firfl: for good Gravy ; fry the Sweet-^ 
bread in Bits neatly Cut. SaVe fbme of the 
Stuffing, for ForcM-meat; to which add 
Juice of Spinage, for Colour, and Yolks of 
Eggs, to make it roll tight, to fry or boil 
for Garnifti in the Sauce, with the Sweet-' 
bread. 

To make Stove-Veal. 

nr A K E a Fillet of Veal of a Cow-CalP 
-*• cut away an Inch of the middle Bone 
on each Side, that the Meat may lie flat in 
the Stew-pan ; cut off the Udder, and flicc 
it in long Pieces, and roll it in Seafoning of 
Pepper, Salt, Nutmeg, and Sweet-herbs fine- 
ly ihred ; make Holes through the Fillet, 
and ftick in thefe feafon'd Pieces of fat Ud- 
der as thick as you can, 'till the whole is 
^ ftufFd in, then lay Butter in the Pan, and 
put in the Meat ; fet it on a gentle Fire, 
turning and ifaakingit as you have Occafion ; 
then fcum off the Fat, and put in one pnion 
ftuck with Cloves, a Lemon pared, and cut 
in half, and fqueezed in : Continue to Ihake 
it. If your Fire be as flow as it ought to 
be, it will take five Hours to make it ready : 
One Hour before it is lb, put in a large Pint of 
ftrong Broth. When the Meat is juft enough 
fet on a Pint oT Oyfters, and a Pint of Mufli- 
rooms, with a little of the Broth, and two 

Spoon-\ 



5 o A CoUe^iion of Receipts 

Spoonfuls of Capers. Let the Meat be agam 
clean fcum'd from the Fat, before you iifc 
the Liquor; thicken this with Flour, and 
pour it into the Dilh to the Meat. 'Tis a 
grateful, lavory Diih. 

To make a Potatoc-PyCi 

npAKE two Pound of Spanifh YoiziotSj 
^ boil them 'till tender ; then peel them, 
and flice them .the long way ; lay them in 
the Difh ; and taive the Marrow of four 
large Bones, pick it out of the Bones in large 
Pieces, and lay it upon the Potatoes ) put id 
two Ounces of prefer v'd Barberries, as much 
Citron and Orange-peel, fix Slices of Le-* 
toon dippM in Sugar, cut off the Rind ; put 
in a quarter of a Pint of Sack : Cover it witM 
Puff-pafle ; and when the Crufl is baked, it 
is enough : Then cut off the Lid, that it 
may cool a little ; and make a Caudle of half 
a Pint of Sack, half a Pound of Butter, thef 
Yolks of four Eggs, and a quarter of an . 
Ounce of beaten Cinnamon: Take care it 
does not turn. Make your Caudle very 
fweet, and pour it into the Pye* 

To Stew Carp. 

C C A L E and wafti your Carps cleart befor^ 
^ you open them ; then flit them carefully^ 
and fave the Blood in Vinegar j take out all 

the 



1^ 



$n Cookety, &c^ it 

the Infide with Caution, for fear of break- 
ing any thingi^ becaufe they muft not be 
walh'd on the Inlide ; put into their Bel- 
lies fome whole Pepper, Salt, and a Blade 
of Mace; coyei! them in . the Stew-pan, 6t 
Diih, with Claret .and half as touch Wafer, 
Spice, Swcet-h^rbs, and a bit of Horfe-ra- 
diih ; ftew them gently, arid turn them 
>vben they, are enough ; lay them on the 
pifti to drain 9 and boil up the Sauce they 
were ftew'd in, With two Anchovies bon'd 
' ^hd wafh'd, the Vinegar the Blood was fav'd 
in, and a Pound- of good Butter ; thick it 
with a little Flour before you put in your 
Butter. - 

Good Sauce fir fJBoU'd Rabbets, /«* 

Jfead of Onions. 

TD O I L the Xivers, and -fiired them very 
•*-' fmall, as alfo two Eggs not boii'd toa 
hard, a large Spoonful of grated white Bread ; 
have ready fbmc ftrong Broth of Beef and 
Sweet-herbs; to a little of that add two 
Spoonfuls of White- wine^ and one of Vi- 
negar; a little Salt, and fome Butter; ftir 
all in, and take cara the Butter do not oil : 
Ihred your Eggs verj^ fmall. 



^ frettjf 



V 



32 A CoJleBion of Receipts 

A pretty Sauce for Woodcock, or any 

Wild-FowL 

TA K E a quarter of a Pint of Glarct, and 
as much Water^ fome grated Bread, two 
or three Heads of Rocambole, or Shal- 
lot, a little whole Pepper, Mace, and flic'd 
Nutmeg and Salt j let this ftew very well 
over the Fire, then beat it up with Butter, 
and put it under the Wild-fowl, which be- 
ing under-roafted, will afford Gravy to mix 
with this Sauce. 

To Fry Oyfters, for Garnijh for Fifb 

or Hajh. 

WASH them ifl their own Liquor, and 
dry them very well j then have fome 
Yolks of Eggs beat up, with Spice and Salt 
finely beat, and Flour to make it thick 
enough to hang on the Oyfters : Fry them 
quick, in clarified Beef-fiiet. 

A fweet Pye, which may he made of 
young Lamb or Chickens. 

^t^ ^ *w^ Chickens you may take eight 

^ Ounces of Marrow, or Butter, if that 

cannot be had ; but a Loin of Lamb wants 

very little more than its own Fat : Scafon 

your 



in Cookcryj &cl 3 J 

your Lamb or Chickens with Salt, Sugar^ 
beaten Gloves and Mace ; lay it into the 
Difh, and put in five Yolks of hard Eggs^ 
ivith ibme of the Fbrc'd-meat Balls, made as 
follows : Shred a Pound of lean Veal, with 
a Pound and half of Beef-fuct^ a Ytry little 
i?arfly, Spinage, and Thyme, fhred very 
linall, mix'd up with grated Bread, the Yolks 
of two Eggs, and fcalbn it with Clove?, 
Mace, Salt, and Sugar ; beat all fine, and 
colour it with a little Juice of Spinage ; make 
it into large Balls, and put as many in as will 
lie well i ihred a Lemon Peel fine, and drew 
in ^ put in alfb fome Sweets-meats, and a 
Coffee-cup of Water with the Juice of a large 
Lemon ; cover it with Puff-paftc^ and when 
it comes out of the Oven, cut off the Lid, to 
let the Fiercenels of the Heat go out, before 
you put in your Caudle, which ihuft be 
half a Pint of White- wine, thicken'd with 
the Yolks of three Eggs, and fweeten'd as 
you find Occafion. 

To Stew Herrings. 

tpiRST broil them very brown, then have 
*^ ready fome White- wine^ iliadc hot with 
an Anchovy y a Blade of Mace, and a Bit of 
Onion, with a little whole Pepper, all ftew'd 
in the Wine ; then cut off the Heads of the 
Filh, and bruife them in the Wine and Spice, 
and take them out again, before you put in 

C . your 



34 -^ Colkeiion of Receipts 

your Henings) let them ftew over (joHSf 
in a Difti that they may He at Length in > 
let them ftew on both Sides, till they arc 
enough at the Bone ; take them out, and 
ihake up the Sauce with Butter and Floun 
'Tis a v<ry gopd way to drefs them. 

To make Saufages. 

nPAKE almoft the double Weight of Fat 
•*■. to your lean Pork, and pick both clean 
from Bones, Skin, and Kernels ; flired it 
feverally very fine; then mix and lhreditto-> 
gether, and to four Pounds of this Meat, you 
may put a very large Nutmeg, the Weight 
of the Nutmeg in Cloves and Mace, and al- 
moft the Weight of all the Spice in Pepper ; 
beat all fine, and let your Heap of Salt be- 
as big again as the Spice and Pepper ; ftxred 
a large Handful of frefh Sage, and a little 
Thyme, very fine ; grate two Spoonfuls pf 
White Bread, and take two Yolks of Eggs^ 
mix all very well together, and fill your 
Skins : If you love Oifters, half a Pint mrcd 
to this Quantity, gives it a richTafte; thefe 
roll and fry without Skins, and keep better 
in a Pot ; add the Yolks of Eggs, when you 
ufe them. Norfolk Links are only fat and 
lean Pork, more grofly cut ; and the Sea- 
Ibning, Pcppcf, Salt, and a large Quantity 
of S^ge ftircd fmall, and put jn large Skins. 

7» 



•.»r 



r*^ < 



in Cookery, &f. i f 

t . 

To mah a Hog-Meat Pie. 

'T^ A KE two Buttock-Pieces, or Rearing*^ 
^ .Pieces of Pork, 'tis what Lean is cut 
off the Gammon on the Infide of the Flitch; 
cut fome pf the Fat off the End of the Chine, 
and beat Fat and Lean together very fmall ; 
fcafon it with Pepper, Salt, Mace, and Nqtr 
meg * tie the Meat, when beat and feafon'd^ 
in a wet clean Cloth ; lay it, into the Shapt 
you would have it, in the Cloth, and cut 
ibme long Slips of the Chine-Fat, to mix and 
lay between every Layer of the beaten Meat } 
when 'tis thus laid round, and in Order, tie 
it up hard, and lay a heavy Weight, to prefs 
it very hard and clofe, for three or four 
Hours : Make your Pie, and when y^ju have 
laid in the Meat, lay half a Pound of Butter 
over the Meat : Juft as you fet it into the 
Oven, pour in a quarter of a Pint of Clarets 
When you draw it, if you find it dry, pout 
in melted Butter. 

Scotch Collops, A very good tfay^ 

rp A K E a Fillet of Veal, cut away the otitic 
•*• fide Skin, and cut it out ih thin Collops, 
with the Grain, hack them with the Back of 
your Knife, lard ibme of them with Bacoh^ 
and feaibn all of them with Salt, Nutmeg^ 
and Thyme^ Parily, and i little Savory j 

C a fiired 



I 
\ 



^6 A Cofk^ion of Receipts 

ihred all the Herbs very fmall, then fry theni 
in a good Quantity of clarify'd Buttet, tilt 
they look of a fine Yellow j take care they 
are not burnt bkck ; when they are fb done^ 
lay them belbfe the Fire to drain ; pour the 
Sutter they were fry'd in, from the Gravy ; 
a;id put to the iSravy three Anchovies, a little 
Urong Beef-broth, a little Oifter-liquor, and 
Oiftefs, with a quarter of a Pint of Claret ; let 
your Oifters ftew thus, till they are enough^ 
then fiiake in five or fix Ounces of Butter ; 
rub the Pan fifft with Shallot, put in the Yolks 
of three Egg^, and take care to ftir or fliake it 
conftantly, for fear of curdling : Juft before 
you pour it out, iqueeze in the Juice of a 
Lemon, and poiir it over the Collops : You 
mufk have Forc'd-meat Balls, and Muflirooms^ 
and ibme fry'd Oifters, with flic'd Lemon,, 
for Garnifti. 

.1 

,. To Stem Oifters, 

TA K £ a Quart of Oifters, and cle?ir them 
welb from Bits of Shells and Drois in 
their own Liquor ; then ftrain that Liquor, 
and pnt to it a lai^e Blades of Mace, a fmaQ 
;^utmeg flic'd, and^'^a little, ^alt j let your 
Oifters boil in this Liquor, ^ ^d finmi them 
^Ican ; when they are neat , enough, put to 
them ibmp Parily ihred fine, -and a little 
ghaUot, if you love it > TXioifhxtd, fine the 

.. ^ . Yolks 



/ 



in Cookery, &c, '%f 

Tolks of four Eggs, and near half a Pouad 
of Bolter : Shafce it conftanitly . 

To make Lobfter-Hes. 

WHEN your Lobftcrs are boil'd^ take 
them clean out of the Shells, flicfe Ihc 
Tails and Qaws thin j feaifon them with 
Pepper, and a little Mace and Nutmeg beat 
fine; take the Bodies with Ibme Oifters flired, 
tnix it up with a little Onion fine fiired, a lit* 
tie Farfly fine flired, and a little gtated Brea<}, 
atid feafon it as the reft ; then take thb 
Yolks of raw Eggs, to roll it tip in Bklls ; 
iay all into the Pie, with Butter at Bbttorti 
and Top of the Filh ; when it comes but of 
f be Oven, pour in a Sauce of ftrong Gravy, 
Oifter-liquor, and White- wine, thicken'd 
with the Yolk of an Egg : 'Tis to eat hot. 

To Boil a Turkey, or any Fowly nsjith 

Oifter Sauce. 

WASH your Oifters very clean in their 
own Liquor, which Liquor you muft 
then ftrain out into a clean Sauce^pan ; put 
in your Oifters, with a Bundle of fwcet 
Herbs, an Onion, fomeMace, whole Pepper, 
and a Bit of Lemon Peel : Then take fifteen, 
if large, of thefe Oifters, with a little grated 
Bread, twice as much Beef-fuet, fhred fmall, 
the Yolks of four hard Eggs, two An- 

C 3 chovieS| 



/ 



5 8 A CoJIe{iiqn of Receipts 

chovies^ a very little Onion fine-lhre^^ Sale^ 
Pepper,' Nutmeg, Thyme, and Wintcr-favOr 
ry ; flircd all together very fine, and mix 
it up with a Yolk of raw Egg ; ftuflF the 
Turkey, * or F*owIs under the Skin on the 
BKCa^ii > while they boil, fet your Oifters, 
for the: Sauce, to flew very gently over the 
Fire ; when they are alnvofi: enougti, take 
them out, and put in a quarter of a Pint c£ 
White* wine, and half a Pint of ftrong Gravy> 
with an Anchovy, Herbs, and Spice, firft 
boird in, and firaio'd clean out of the Gravy ; 
when aU this is boil-d together, put in as 
much Butter as will make it thick, and well 
tafted, ^twili take near a Found (o a Quart of 
Cillers ; If you find it fo thin as to part, mix 
a litttc Flour in a Bit of the Butter, then throw 
in your Oifters again, the Juice of a Lemon, 
and ibme ihred Par%, to look green ; Pour 
it over the Fowl j and garnilh with Oiftera 
arid Lemon. ^ 

T'o make Weftphalia-Hams j ahfohteh 
the bejt Way to do them. 

(T^yT your Leg of fat large Pork, as like 
^^ a right Ham as you can (black Hogs 
make the beft) j hang it up two Days, then 
beat it very well on the flelhy Side ^vlth a 
•Rolling-pin j rub in an Ounce of Salt-petre 
(finely beaten) in every Place, fo let it lie a 
Day and Night j then ta|ce p Qunce of 
' 3 ^ beaten 



in Cookery y\^c^ ;9 

fieatcn Salt-prunel, with two large Handfuls 
of con) mon Salt) and a Handful of Bay-falt, 
a Found of coarie Sugar ; mix all thefe to- 
gether, and waim them thorough-hot in a 
L Stew-pan, but be furc not to melt it, and 

; while 'tis hot, rub it all over the Ham very 

well, with two large Handfuls more of Salt ; 
thus let it lie, till it melt« to Brine, then eurn 
it every Day twice, and bafl:c it with that 
Brine, for three Weeks together : Dry it- as 
Bacon. 

Note^ That your Handfuls of common 
Salt be very large* 

^0 fPor'Neats-Tongucs, ^i better Way 

tifan T>ry$ng them. 

PICKLE them red, as you do to dry ; 
and when you think them falc enough 
to dry, boil them very tender j take them 
up, and peel them, and rub them with Pep- 
per, Cloves, and Mace, all over ; then turn, 
them round into a Pot to bake ; Lay them 
in fingle Pots on their Sid? j you mufl cut 
ofiF the Root as well as the Skin, and cover 
thiem with Butter : Bake them with browa 
Bread ; when they come out of the Oven, 
pour out the Gravy, and let the fame Butter 
ferve, when clcarM j if there is not enough, 
add more clarify'd* 

» C 4 



4Q A €olb0ion «f p.eeH^pts. 
To ¥ot Salmon, as yat Newcaftle, 

TAKE a Side of Salmon^ fcalc and wipp 
it very well aiid cjean ; but doa't wafti 
it ; fait it very weUi and 1ft it lie till the Salt 
be melted, and drainM from it ; then feaCon 
it with beat Mace^ and Clores, and whole 
Pepper ; lay in three or four Bay-leaves, and 
cover it aH over with Butter : When 'tis well 
bak'd, take it out, and let it drain from the 
Gravy ; then put it into your Pot to keep^ 
and, when cold, cover it with clarify'd But- 
ter. Thus you may do Carp, Tencfr, Trout, 
or any firm Filh. 

To fickle Mackarel, eaJPd Cavcach. 

rf^UT your Mackarel into roiand Pieces, 

^^ and divide one in to five or fix pieces: To 

fix large M^karel you may take one Oimce 

of beaten Pepper, three large Nutmegs, a 

little Mace, and a Handful of Salt; mix your 

Salt and beaten Spice together, and make two! 

Or three Holes in each Piece, and thruft the 

Seafoning into thoie Holes with your Finger; 

mb the Pieces aD over with the Scafoning' ; 

fry them brown in Oil, and let them ftand, 

till they are coJd ; then put them into Vinegar, 

and cover them with Oil. They ^ill keep, 

well covered, a great while, and are deli- 

cious. 



mSi ' -« 



J 

in Cobkei:y, ^e. 41 

To Step a Rump of Beef. 

PIRST boi( k mote than half enough, 
*^ then take it off the Fire, and peel the. 
Skin oflF the Top j have ready fomc Pepper^ 
beaten Mace, gwted l^tmeg^ Salt^ ffared 
Thyme, Savory, Marjoram, and P^rfly ) 
fluff it in large Holes tlnro' the Fat • lay the 
left of the Seaifoning aU over the ^Top y and 
to bind it on> fpread over it the Yolk of one 
or two Eggs. Be fure to fave the Grayy 
that runs oiit in ftufiing, to which add a Pipt 
pf Claret, and Ibme Vinegar ; put it in a 
deep Pan that will not be too big, but let the 
Liquor come up to the Top : Bake it two 
Hours ; and when you put it in a clean 
Pifti, pour the Gravy and Wine it was bak'd 
in, all over. 

Tq make a good Vote d^Meat for am 

rpAKE a Pound of VeaJ, and full its 

* Weight in Beef-fuct, a Bit of Bacon ; 

flired all together, beat it hi a Mortar very 

, fine J then fcafon it with fweet Herbs, Pep- 
per, Salt, Cloves, Mace, and Nutmegs ; and 

^ when you roll it up to fry, add the Yolks of 
two or three Eggs, to bind it. You may add 
pifters* or Marrow, pn extraordinary Occafi- 
pns. 



A Colkdion of Receipts 
To Tot Lamprey^ 

SEASON your Fifli with Pepper, Salt^ 
and Nutmeg, a large Onion ftuck with 
Clores, three Spoonfuls of Claret ) cover it 
with Butter, and bake it ; when 'tis enough^ 
take it out, and firain it from the Liquor ^ 
pour off the clear Butter, and add to it as 
much more as will coyer the Fiih, in a Fan 
fit to keep it, and bring to TaBle. Remem-* 
ber always to clarify all the Butter you pour 
over potted things. 

A Wcftphalia-Ham Pie. 

OOI L your Ham as tender as you ufually 
-■-^ do to cat when 'tis cold .; bone and skin 
it ; feafon it with Pepper, Cloves, and Mace 
beaten ; put it into very good Cruft, or into 
9 Difh covered over with Pafty-cruft. Before 
you lid it, lay in Butter ; and when it comes 
out of the Oven, put in clarify'd Butten 
'^Tis good eithdr hot or cold. 

To Tickle Codlins, like Mangoe. 

\/f AKE a Brine of Salt and Water, ftrong 
^^^ enough to bear an Egg, into which put 
half an hundred of the faireft and largeft 
Godiins you can get j they muft b^ full 
grown, but not full ripe ,j let them lie in 

. this 



1 

m Cookery, ^c. 43 

this Brine nine or ten Days, Ihiftiog the 
Pickle every other Day, then dry them, and 
very carefully fcoop out the Core : Take out 
the Stalk fo whole, as that it may fit in again ; 
and you may leave the Eye in, if you don't 
put your Scoop quite thro' ; fill it, in the 
room of the Core, with Ginger flic'd thin^ 
and cut fliort, a Clove of Gariick, and whole 
Muftard*feed, as much as it will hold : Put 
in the Piece, and tie it up tight. Make your 
Pickle of as much White-wine Vinegar as 
will cover them, . with flic'd Ginger, Cloves 
of Garlick, and whole Muftard-fecd : Pour 
this Pickle* boiling-hot upon them every 
other Day, for a Fortnight or three Weeks. 
Stone Jars are beft for all Sorts of Pickles. 

And this is as good a way as any for a mid^ 
ling large Cucumber ; only don't cut them to 
put the Garlick and Muftard-feed in ; for they 
keep miich longer, and eat much crifper, if 
you let them be whole. But neither CV/- 
^umbers^ Peaches^ nor Melons^ are comparable 
to Codlinsy for imitating the right Maiigoe. 

To Ficlh Wallnurs. 

'T* AKE a hundred of the large French 
-* Wallnuts, at the Beginning of y///K, be- 
fore they have a hard Shell ; juft fcald them, 
that the firft Skin may rub off ; then throw 
them into Water and Salt for ninp or ten 

Days, 



\ 



44 ^ ColkSlion of Receipts 

Days, ihifcing them every other Day, and 
keep them cloie covered from the Air ; then 
dry them ; and make your Fickle of two 
Quarts of White-wine Vinegar, Long Pep- 
per, Black Pepper, and Ginger, of each one 
Ounce ; Cloves, Mace, and Nutmegs, of 
each half an Ounce ; beat the Spice, and 
vrith it a large Spoonful of Muftard-feed ; 
ftrew this between every Layer of Wallnuts, 
and pour your Liquor boiling-hot upon them 
three or four times, or oftener, if you fee 
Occafion : Be fure to keep them clofe ftopp^d. 
A Spoonful of this Pickle is good in Fiih, or 
any favoury Sauce. Three or four Cloves 
of Garlick do well, if you do not diflike the 
Tafte. 

To Pickle Mufhrooms. 

GATHER the fmalleft Buttons, cut off 
the Bottom of the Stalk, and throw 
them into Water and Salt ; then rub them 
with a coarfe Qoth or Flannel very clean^ 
and throw them into another Pan of . clean 
Water : Boil them in Milk and Water ; take 
them out upon a clean Cloth : When they 
are dry, put them into Glaffcs, with white 
Pepper-corns, and a good Quantity of Mace ; 
make your Pickle of half White-wine, and 
half good iharp White- wine Vinegar ; many 
put it to the Mufhrooms unboird : If you 
boil it, you mull let it Hand to be cold, be- 

fore 



in Cookery, &c. 45^ 

fbte you pour it to the Mulhrooms. Pour 
good Oil on the Top of the Pickle : it keeps 
them beft ^ and put them in as fmall GlafTes 
as you can, .becaufe they fbon decay, when 
they haye taken Air. 

To Tickle Ncats-Tongucs, wry good. 

LAY your Tongues twelve Days in com- 
' mon Salt, and Salt-petre, then boil them 
very tender, and blanch them ; cut ofij^he 
Root, and lay them into a Pot, and pour 
oyer them a Pickle made of good White- wine 
Vinegar, which you muft boil up with Pep^ 
per, Cloves, Mace, and a little Ginger j when 
'tis ready to take oflf the Fire, throw in a 
Piece of Lemon Peel, and three or four Bay- 
leaves ; put it not to the Tongues tiU cool ; 
tie them clofe from the Air. A little of thcf 
Pickle, with good Oil, is their Sauce. 

To Tickle Pidgcons, 

BONE them neatly, and feafbn them 
with Salt, Pepper, Cloves, and Mace ; 
few them up at the Back, and tie the Neck 
and Rump ; boil them in two Quarts of Wa- 
ter, a Pint of White-wine, and as much 
White-wine Vinegar j put into it a fmall 
Faggot of fweet Herbs, and a Bit of Lemon 
PeeL When the Pidgcons are enough, take 
ihem off the Fire : When they are out; boil 

and 



4^ A Colk€tiOtt of Receipts 

and fcum the Pickle very clean ; pour it dot 
to the Fidgeons, till 'tis cold/ 

To fickle Smelts. 

GUTy and wa(h them clean^ then lay 
them in Rows, and put Pepper, Nut« 
meg, Cloves, Mace, and Salt, between every 
Layer of Fiih, and four or five Bay-leaves^ 
powder'd Cochineal, and Petre-falt, beat 
and mix'd with the Spice : Boil (as much as 
will cover them) good Red- wine Vinegar, 
and put to them when cold. They exceed 
jinchovks. 

To Tickle Oiftcrs. 

TA K E a Peck of very large Oifters } 
when carefully open'd without cutting, 
wafti them three or four times in their own 
Liquor ; ftrain the Liquor, and put that into 
a Skillet : When it boils, put in your Oifters, 
with half an Ounce of White Pepper, and 
five or fix Blades of Mace : Let them boil, 
till they begin to Ihrivel up ; then take 
them out of the Liquor, and cover them 
clofe, while the Spice and Liquor boil a 
quarter of an Hour longer j then pour it on 
the Oifters ; and always keep them as much 
from the Air as you can, to keep their Co- 
lour. 



jfn 



in Cookery^ &c. 4 jr 

^» Apple-Pudding f(7 uBtfJ^, very good. 

np A KE twelve fair large Pippins, coddle 
-*• them over the Fire very flowly, that 
they do not crack ; when they are fofty peel 
and core them, and pulp them through a 
Cullender : Add to this three Spoonfuls of 
Orange-flower Water, ten Eggs well beat 
and ftrain'd, half a Pound of very good 
Butter melted ; make it very fweet, the 
Apples require it : Add candy'd Orange, 
Lemon, or Citron Peel : Put a Sheet of 
PuflF-pafte into a Diih, and pour in your 
Pudding ; bake it with Care : 'Tis done in 
half an Hour. 

ftbe heft Orangc-Pudding that ever 

voas tjfted. 

O A R E the yellow Rind of two fair SeviJU 
* Oranges, fo very thin, that no Part of 
the White comes with it ; flired and beat it 
extremely fmall in a large Stone Mortar ; 
add to it, when very fine, half jsl Pound of 
Butter, half a Pound of Sugar, and the Yolks 
of fixteen Eggs ; beat all together in the Mor- 
tar, till 'tis all of a Colour ; then pour it into 
your Difh in which you have laid a Sheet of 
Puff-pafte. I think grating the Peel favcs 
Trouble, and does it finer and thinner, than 

you 



4^ A Colk^ion of Receipts 

>you can flired, or beat it : But you mud beat 
up the Butter and Sugar with ity and the £gga 
With all, to mix them well. 

A Rice-Pudding. 

V 

GRIND, or beat half a Pound of Rice to 
Flour ; mix it, by Degrees, with three 
Pints of Milk, an^ thicken it over the Fire 
with Care, for fear of burning, till "'tis like 
a Hafty-pudding ; when ^tis fb thick, pour 
it out, and let it ftand to cool : Put to it nine 
£ggs, (but half the Whites) three or four 
Spoonfuls of Orange-flower Water : Melt al- 
moft a Found of good Butter, and fweeten it 
to your Tafte. Add Sweet-meats, if you 
pleafe. 

It. 

white Hogs-Puddings. 

TA K £ a Quart of Cream, and fourteen 
Eggs, (only half theWhites) beat them 
but a little ; and when the Cream boils, put 
in the Eggs ; keep them ftirring on a gentle 
Fire, till 'tis all a thick Curd : After 'tis al- 
moft cold, put to it a Pound of grated white 
Bread, two Pounds of Suet fhred very fine, 
two Nutmegs grated, fome Citron cut fmall, 
half a Pound of Almonds beat fmall, with 
Orange-flower Water, Salt, and Sugar to 
your Tafte : To this you may put three 

quarters 



4 fV»*v 



t 



r^ 



in todkery, &c: 4^ 

quarters of a Pint of Crcimj ivhcn you go to 
filling. 

A Neats-F6ot Ptldding; 

TA K E to a Pound of Ncats-foot finely 
ihred, three quarters of a Pound of Suet 
ihred as fmall, a whole Nutmeg grated^ can- 
dy'd Orange minc'd, Ixxne Salt, and fbme 
Currants, a little grated Bread, and feyen 
Eggs (leave oijt half the Whites) ; flour the 
Bag, and let it boil two Hours and a half at 
leaft. The Sauce is Sack^ Sugar acid Butter 
melted. 



B 



Cuf):atd&, ^ery goad. 

OIL a Quart of Cream, then fweeteh it 
with, fine powder'd Sugar.} beat eight 
Yolks of Eggs, with two Spoonfuls of Orange* 
flower Water; ftir this in the Cream, and 
ftrain all thro' a Sieve : Fill your Cups or 
Cruft, and bake them with Care> 



B 



Orange Checfe-Cakes, . wry good. 

L ANCH hatf a Pound of found Sweet 
Almonds, beat them v^ery fine, with two 
Spoonfuls of Orange»flower Water, half a 
Pound of Su^ar beat and fifted, three quarters 
of a Pound of melted Butter : Put to the 
K% when almoft cold, eight Eggs, leave* 

* D ing 



\ 

>* 



5 o A Colk^ion of Receipt i 

ing out half the Whites ; beat and firaia 
them : Boil the Peel of a Sevllk Orange, till 
the Bitternefs is out, beat it fine, and mix it 
with the reft ; put it into very light Cruft : 
"^Tis an incomparable Cheefe-cake without the 
Orange. 

Another Chcefc-cakc, mthout Curdy 

very good. 

TAKE a Quart of Cream, and feven 
Eggs, Yolks and Whites ; beat three 
of the Eggs, and put as much Rice^flour to 
them, as will make them thick as a Pafte ; 
then put in the other four Eggs, being a little 
beaten, and ftir all well together ; fet on 
your Cream to boil, and put in your Egg^ 
and Rice, ftirring it all the time, till 'tis ft 
pretty thick Curd : When 'tis cold, fealbnonc 
Part with a Spoonful or two of Sack, Nut- 
meg, Sugar, and Currants ; and the other 
with Orange- flower Water, Ambergreefe, 
and Sugar : Put them in a very good Ctuft : 
A little Time bakes them/ 

A good Cheefc-cake, with Curd. 

TO a Pound and half of Cheefe^curd, put 
ten Ounces of Butter ; beat both in a 
Mortar, till all looks like Butter ; then add 
a quarter of a Pound of Almonds, beat with 
Orange-flower Water j a Pound of Sugar, 

eight 



•7» 



in Cootccty, ^c. ki 

bight Eggs, half the Whites, a little beatetl 
Mace * and a little Cream, beat all together i 
A quarter of an Hour bakes them in Puffi- 
cruft, and in a quick Oven. 

Thin Cream Pan-'cakcs, €aWd a Quir<; 

of Paper. 

TAKE to 4 Pint of Cream, eight Eggs^ 
leaving out two Whites^ three Spoon- 
fuls of fine F^Iour, three Spoonfuls of Sack^ 
and one Spoonful of Orange- flower Water^ 
a little Sugar, a grated Nutmeg, and a ^zt^ 
ter of a Pound of Butter, melted in the Cr^am ; 
mingle all well together, mixbg the Floiir 
with a little Cream at nrft, that it may be 
fmooth : Butter your Pan for the firft Pan-^ 
cake, and let them run as thin as you caxi 
pollibly, to be whole ; when one Side is co-^ 
lour'd, ^tis enough ; take them carefully 
out of the Pan, and ftrew fome fine^fifted Su^ 
gar between each ; lay them as even on each 
other as you can : This Quantity will make 
twenty. 



\ 



An Almond-Pudding. 



15 EAT half a Pound of good fwee( Al-- 
^^ monds, with Orange-flower Water, gra- 
ted Biskcts, three or four, as they are for 
Size, hllf a Pound of Butti^r, and four large 
Spoonfuls of Sack, eight Eggs, leaving out 

Da h?lf 



5 1 A Colle^ioH of Receipts 

half the Whites, and a Quart of Cream, with 
Sugar to your Taftc ; put a FufF-paft^at the 
Bottom of the Difii ; and garnifli the Edge 
with Fafte ; fo pout it in, and bake it : Thofc 
that love not Orange-flower Water, may put 
a grated Nutmeg inftead of ^it, and beat the 
Almonds with fair Water, for fear of oiling. 

Orange-Pudding. 

TAKE three fair Oranges, cut them, and 
fqueeze off the Juice into a clean Fan ; 
boil the Peels in two or three Waters, till 
the Bitterniefc is off; then pick out the Pulp 
and Strings, and beat the Peel very fine in 
ydur Mortat, ^vith Orange-flower Water, 
then mix it up with the ftrain'd Juice ; add 
to it nine Eggs, leaving out four Whites, 
half a Pound of Butter, and Sugar to your 
Tafte J put a Puff-paftc at the Bottom of the 
Dilh, and garnifh the Edge of the Difti with 
Pafte : Some People only grate in the Peels 
raw, and leave out the Jiiice j but I think 
the above- written way is the moft grateful 
and pleafant. Notey You muft beat all in 
the Mortar, a full Hour at leaft, till the In- 
gredients look all alike* 

A Cuftard Sack-Poflet. • ' 

npAKE a Quart ofiCream, boil it, and 
.-*- fcafon it well with Sugar ; then take 
ten Eggs, with two Whiles, beaten very 

well. 



#» Cookery, ^c. 5* 

well,' flrain them to half a Pint of Sack, ftir 
the £ggs and Sack with Care over the Fire^ 
till 'tis very hot ; then pour in the Cream, 
holding it very high, and ftir all very well 
together ; cover it clofe, and ftt it over a 
Kettle of Water, till 'tis come as thick and 
fmopth as a Cuftard : 'Tis by much the bcft 
S(^C of Poflet that is made. 

/ 

Cheefe-Curd Puddiog. 

* 

TAKE the Curd of a Gallon of new 
Milk, drained from the Whey, beat it 
very well in a Mortar, with half a Found of 
Butter ; then take fnc Eggs, but three of the 
Whites, beat them very well, and ftrain them 
to the Curd ; two grated Naples Biskets, or 
a Half-penny Loaf, if they cannot be had, 
with half a Pint of Flour ; mix all thefc to- 
gether, and fweeten it to your Palate : But- 
ter your Patty-pans very well, fill, and bake 
them ; let not the Oven be too hot ; turn 
them out, and pour over them Sack, Sugar, 
and Butter melted very thick ; cut Slips of 
candyV! Orange Peel, or Citron, to fticfc up 
in them ; and llice blanchM Almonds for 
thofe that have not Sweet-meats. 



D 3 Avery 



... • 

A wry goo4 Tanfy^ 

TA K £ a Fmt of lylilk, and ^ a Fint pf 
Cream, about a Pint of Juice of Spi- 
pajge, which muft be well dryM after wafh-- 
V^Sy ^^^^^^ y^^ ftamb it ; ftrain it, and potir 
it in ; beat fifteen Eggs, with a little Salt, 
leave out eight Whites, ilrain them into the 
other things, put in hear a Pint pf grated 
Bread or Bisket ; grate in a whole large Nut«^ 
meg, and as much Sugar as will make it very 
fweet^ thicken h over the Fire as thick as i 
Hafty-pudding ; put it into a butter'd Difl)| 

and a cool Oven : Half an Hour bakes it. 

, . • ... I .... < « ■ • • . • ' 

To make Hogs-Pudding$. 

nPAKE the Hog's Tongue, and fome of 
-■- the Lights, with a Piece of Liyer ; 
when all is boil'd tender, grate the Liver, 
and chop the Tongue and Lights very fmall ; 
put this to a Gallon of grated Bread, three 
Pounds of Currants^ Mace, Cinnamon, Nut- 
meg, Salt, and Sugar ; nine Eggs, leave 
but four Whites, three Pounds of Suet finely 
ihred : Wet it with the Top of the Liquor 
you boird your Meat in ; it muft not be too 

limber : When 'tis ready, fill your Skins. 

' ■ ' • • ■ *■ .■.,'.*,■. * 

Uver- 



rf 



fn Cookery^ i^c, ye 

Liver-Puddings, very good. 

np AK E the Crumb of a Two-penny white 
* Loaf grated, a Pound of Marrow, or 
frefli Beef-fuet, fo finely flired as to go thro' 
a Culjender ; take a Pound of Hogs Liver 
boird, grate and fift that very line ; boil a 
Quart of Cream with a Blade of Mace, and 
fweeten it ; grate a Nutmeg, and put it to 
the reft j beat up fix Eggs with the Whites, 
a little Salt, and a Spoonful of Orange-flower 
Water j mix all together, and fill your Skins : 
If you like Currants, you muft plump them 
before they go in. 

^Sagoe^Pudding. 

TAKE half a Pound of Sagpe, and walh 
it well in three or four hot Waters, then 
put to it a Quart of new Milk, and let it boil 
cc^ther, till thick as a Hafty-puddlng j ftir 
it carefiiUy, for 'tis apt to burn ; put in a 
Stick of Cinnamon, when you fet it on the 
Fire ; when 'tis boil'd, take it out : Befotc 
you pour it out, ftir in near half a Pound of 
Butter, beat nine Eggs, with four Spoonfuls 
of Sack, leave out four Whites, ftir all to- 
gether, fweeten it to your Taftc, and put in 
a quarter of a Pound of plump'd Currants ; 

D 4 lay 



k6 a. Colkdiov <f Rficeipti 

^ I 

lay a Sheet of Fuff-pafie under, and to gar- 
ni(h the Briro^ 

^ $tew Ijoldcn-Pippins, a very good 

Way. 

PARE them, and nicely fcoop out the 
Core, with a very fmall Scoop : throw 
them into W^ter, to prcftrvc their Colour ; 
to a Pound of Pippins thtis prepared, take 
half a Found of dpubl^^refin'd Sugar, and 
one Pint of Water j boil and fcum the Syrup, 
before you put in the Pippins j when the 
Pippins are in, let them boil apace, tp make 
them clear, and when they are fo, put in a 
Bit of Lemon Ped, and the Juice of Lemon 
to your Tafte. 

Harts^Horn, or CalfVFopt Jelly, the 

heji Way. 

HP AKE to half a Pound of good Harts- 
* horn, three Quarts of fair Water, let it 
boil very flowly, till above one Quart be 
^onfum'd J if you cannot get Harts-^hoflfn, 
one Set of Calf -s-feet will make more itt 
Quantity, and tafte almoft as well j the Look, 
with Care, >vill be ihc fame j ftrain ihis Li*- 
quor, and let it ftand to cQol j the ftrongec 
you make your Jelly, the more Ingredients 
you may ufe j to make it palatable, when 

it is f?ttl?d, as it will be the next Day, ^akc . 

off% 







i( 



in Cookery, &cl j/ 

off what is clear of the Hartshorn, and of 
the Cairs'^foot Jelly ; ypu muft.takc off the 
Fat from the-T6p, as well as leave the Droft 
at the Bottom ; to thefe two Quarts of ftrong 
Jelly, ypu may put a Pint of Rhenifli, and 
a quarter of a Pint of Canary ; beat up the 
Whites of five Eggs to a Froth ; ftir all to- 
gether with Sugar, to make it very fweet ; 
ijiix it well, an^ fct it pn the Fire, and ftir it 
• till it melts and curdles y then put in the Juice 
of five large Lemons, and a Bit of the Peel ; 
let this boil up, then pour it thro' your Jel- 
ly-bag, and pals the firft Qu. rt or two, over 
and over again, till 'tis pcrfcftly fine. 

^0 make Almoadnct, or White Jelly. 

BLANCH half a^ Pound of Almonds, 
and beat them very fine, with | little 
Orange-flower Water, juft enough to keep 
them from oiling ; when they are pounded 
as fmaU as 'tis poffible to do them, mix them 
up with fbme of your Jelly, that is not fo 
much weakened with Wine and Lemon j this 
will colour a Pint and half of the Jelly ; 
pafs this through a very fine Hair-Sieve 
very often, and ftir it till it grows thick, 
that the Colour of the Almond may not 
fettle to the Bottom^ pour it into pretty 
fliap'd Glafles, that it may look handfome, 
when tum'd out v^on C^m Plates. Thrs 

Jelly 



5S A CoJk£iion of Receipts 

Jelly m^ft be made very good tailed, tho* 
you may abate a little of the Wine, and Jutcc 
of Lemon, becaufe the Almonds fupply that 
Want ; and then being ferv'd out of the 
GlaiTes, it wants Strength. 

Lemon^Cream, the hefi Way. 

npAKE three fmooth fair Lemons, pare 
-*• them, and Iqueeze out the Juice ; cut 
the Feel in fmall Pieces, and put it to the 
Juice J for two or three Hours, cover it clofe j 
and when it taftes of the Peel, add to it the 
Whites of four Eggs, and the Yolks of two ; 
beat this well with two Spoonfuls of Orange- 
flower Water ; then put all thefe to a Pint of 
fair Water, ftrain it, and fwecten it with 
doublc-refin'd Sugar ; fet it over a gentle 
Fire, and ftir it carefully, till 'tis as thick as 
Cream : Put it into your Jelly-Glaffes. 

^0 make Biack-Caps, the hefi Way. 

T^ AKE a dozen and half of very large 
-* French Pippins, or Golden-Reinettes ; 
cut them in half^ and lay them with the flat 
Side down to the Mazarine, which muft be 
large; lay them fingle, as clofe by each other 
as they can lie ; Iqueeze a large Lemon into 
two Spoonfuls of Orange-flower Water, and 
pour over them ; flired Lemon Peel very fine, 
and fliakc between ; and grate double- refin'd 

Sugar Tj 



t^^^t^mu 



in Cookery, ^cl jf^ 

Sugar all over them ; put ^hein into a 
quick Oren, and they are donfe in half an 
Hour. 

Almond-Cream* 

nPAKE hdf a Pound of good Almonds, 
•*• blanch and beat them very fine, with 
Orange- flower Water ; take a Quart of Cream 
boirq, cooPd, and fwecten'd j put the Al- 
inonds into it, and when they are mix'd, 
ftrain it thro' a Canvas, then ftir it over the 
Fire, till it thickens, and pour it into Glaffes j 
if you love it richly perfiim'd, put in a Grain 
of Ambergreefe. 

To make Orange-Cream. 

TAKE four Oranges, and grate the Feels 
into a Pint of Water ; then fqueeze the 
Juice into the Water j beat the Yolks of four 
Eggs very well, and put into the Water ; 
fweeten it very well with double-refin'd Su- 
gar ; prefs all hard thro' a ftrong Strainer ; 
fet in on the Fire, and ftir it carefully all one 
way, till 'tis as thick as Cream j then pour it 
into your Glafles. 

A very Rich Almond-Cream, to Jelly. 

Ti^AKE a very ftrong Jelly of Harts- 
•l-^-"* horn 5 and that it may be fo, put half a 
Pound of good Harts-horn, to a Quart and 
. '* half 



6o A CoffeSihn of Receipts 

half a Pint of Water ; let it boil away near 
half i ftrain it off thro* a JcUy-bag ; then 
have ready, beaten to a very fine Pafte, fix 
Ounces of Almonds, which mull be cirefiiUy 
beat with one Spoonful of good Orange-flower 
Water, with fix or eight Spoonfuls of very 
thick fweet Cream ; then take near as much 
Cream as you have Jelly, and put both into 
a Skellet, and ftrain in your Almonds ; 
fwectcn it to your Tafte with double- rcfin'd 
Sugar J fct it over the Fire, and llir it with 
Care conftantly, till ^tis ready, to boil ; fo 
take it off, and keep it fiirring, till 'ti$ near 
cold ; then pour it into narrow-bottom'd 
Drinking-glailes, in which let it fiand a 
whole Day : When you would turn it out, 
put your Glafles into- warm Water for a. Mi- 
nute, and 'twill turn out like a Sugar-loaf. 
This is caird Steeple-Cream. 

To make Orange-Poffet. 

CQUEEZE the Juice of two Seville 
^ Oranges, and one Lemon, into a Ciif^s 
Bafbn, that holds about a Quart ; fweetcn 
this Juice, like a Syrup, with double-refin'd 
Sugar, put to it two Spoonfuls of Orange- 
flower Water, and ftrain it thro' a fine Sieve ; 
boil a large Pint of thick Cream, with Ibmc 
of the Orange Peel in it cut thin : When 'tis 
pretty coo], pour it into the Balbn of Juice 
through a Funnel, which muft be held as 

high . 



in Cookety, ^c. 6t 

high as you can from the Baibn : It muft 
ftaiid a Day before you ufe it. When it goes 
to Table, ftick Slips of candyM Orange, Le- 
mon, and Citron Peel on the Top. 

Piftachia^Crcani, "oery good. 

TAKE an Ounce of the Kernels of iP/- 
pach'ta Nut, beat them fmall with two 
Spoonfuls of Orange-flower Water, and four 
Yolks of Eggs ; • boil a Quart of Cream, and 
mix all together : When the Cream is fo cool 
it will not curdle the Eggs, thicken it over 
the Fire with great Care, and put it into your 
Glaflcs. 

5o make FrydQtzzm. 

TAKE a Qiiart of good new Cream, the 
Yolks cf feven Eggs, a Bit of Lemon 
Peel, a grated Nutmeg, two Spoonfuls of 
Sack, as much Orange-flower Water : Butter 
your Sauce-pan, and put it over the Fire ; 
ftir it all the while one way with a little white 
Whisk, and as you ftir, ftrew in Flour very 
lightly, till 'tis thick and Imooth ; then 'tis 
boird enough, and may be pour'd out upon 
a Cheefe-plate or Mazarine ; fpread it with 
a Knife exadly even, about half an Inch 
thick, then cut it in Diamond-fquares, and 
fry it in a Pan full of boiling fvveet Suet. 



6% A ColU^ton of fleceipti 
To make a very good Barlcy-GrucL 

OF' three Ounces of Pearl-barley make i 
Quart of Barley-water ; ftiift it once or 
twice, if 'tis not white ; put to it four Ounces 
of Currants clean picfc'd and walhM ; when 
tljey are plump'd, pour the Gruel out to cool 
a little, and beat up the Yolks of three Eggs, 
and put into it, with half a Pint of White- 
wine, and half a i?int of new thick Cream, 
the Peel of a Lemon, and as much Sugar as 
you like j ftir it gently over the Fire, till 'ti? 
as thick as Cream. 'Tiis a pretty wholefbmc 
Spoon-meat for Suppers. 

To make the T^ick Square Cream- 
Cheefe, as at Newport. 

YOU muft get a Vat made a quarter and 
half high j the Bottom (nor Top) mutt 
not be faften'd in,* it muft be four-iquaire, 
with Holes all over ; then take two Quarts of 
good thick Cream, two Quarts bf Stroakings, 
and a Gallon of new Milk ; fet it with Run- 
net, as for common Cheefe ; when 'tis come, 
take out the Curd with a Chifia Saucer, and 
put it into the Vat ; ftrew a little clean dry 
Salt in two or three Places, as it is laid in ; 
and as the Curd finks, fill up the Vat, till 
all the Cheefe is in ; prefs it as other Cheefe : 
Let it ftand in the Vat two dr three Days, ' 

till 



in Cookcty, <^c. <fj 

till all the Whey is out, and turn'd often, 
while 'tis in ; fait it two Days : When you 
take it out, you muft let it dry without rub- 
bing ; and make it in May. If you defire it 
exadly four-fquare, let the Vat be foil a 
quarter and half high, and the Square want 
an Inch of a quarter. 

^0 make a pretty Sort of Flummery. 

PU T three large Handfuls of Oatmeal, 
ground fmafl, into two Quarts of fair 
Water ; let it fteep a Day and Night ; then 
pour off the clear Water, and put the fame 
Quantity of frelh Water to it ; ftrain it thro' 
a fine Hair-fieve, and boil it till 'tis as thick 
as Hafty-pudding ; ftir it all the while, that 
it may be extremely linooth : And when 
you firft ftrain it out, before you fet it on the 
Fire, put in one Spoonful of Sugar, and two 
of good Orange-flower Water. When 'tis 
boiPd enough, pour it into (hallow Diihes, 
for your Ufe. 

To make Harts-hora Flummery. 

"P U T a Pound of Harts-horn Shavings to 
•*' three Quarts of Spring- Water, boil it 
very gently over a (oft Fire, till 'tis con- 
fum'd to one Quart ; then ftrain it thro' a fine 
Sieve into your Bafon, and let it ftand till 
cold J then juft melt it over the Fire, and put 

to 



i^4 ACoite^ton of Receipts 

to it half a Pint ofWhitc-winc, aPintof n««r 
thick Cream, and four Spoonfuls of Orange-^ 
flower Water ; fcald your Cream, and let it 
be cold, before you mix it with Wine and 
Jelly i put in double-refin'd Sugar to your 
Tafte, and then beat it all one way, for an 
Hour and an half at leaft ; for if you are not 
thus careful in beating, 'twill neither mix, 
nor look to pleafe you. Let the Cups you 
pour it into, be dipp'd in clean Water ; for 
if they are dry, it will not turn out well : 
Keep it in the Cups a Day before you ufc it. 
When 'tis ftnt to Table, you muft turn it out, 
and ftick it all over the Top with blanch'd 
Almonds cut in Slips. ^ Eat it in Cream^ or 
Wine, which you like beft. 

A Whipped SyW^huh, extraordinary^ 

A K E a Quart of Cream, and boil it, 
let it ftand till 'tis cold ; then take a 
Pint of White- wine ; pare a Lemon thin, and 
fteep the Peel in the Wine, two Hours before 
you ufe it ; to this add the Juice of a Lemon, 
and as much Sugar as will make it very 
fvveet : Put all this together into a Bafon, 
and whisk it all one way, till 'tis pretty 
thick : Fill your Glaffcs, and keep it a Day 
before you uie it ; 'twill keep good three or 
four Days. Let your Cream be full Mea- 
furc, and your Wine rather kfs. If you like 
it perfumM, put in a Grain or two of Am* 
bergreefe. Panada, 



T 



^anadi^ for d Sick or Weak Stothach. 

P U T the^ Crumb of a Penny Whlte-Ioaf 
grated into a. Quart of cold Water; fet 
both on the Fire together, with a Blade t)f 
Mace : When 'tis boil'd fmooth, take it off 
the Fire, and put in a Bit of Lemon-peel, the 
Juice of a Lemon, aGlafs of Sack^ and Sugar 
te yoiir Tafte. This is very nburifliing, and 
h^ver offends the Stdmach. Some feafbn with 
Butter and Sugar^ adding Currants, which 
on Ibme Occafions arc proper j bijt the iirft 
is the moft: gtateful and innocent. 

' To make iSagoCi 

ip iJ'f an Ounce of Sagoe to a I*int of 
^ Water, fct it otcr the Fire, and.ftir it 
carefully 'till 'tis thick ; feafon it with three 
Spoonfuls of Sack or White- wine, a Bit of ' »♦ \ 
Letnoh-peel, and %ht Juice of a Lemon. \ • 

Sweeten it to your 'jPafte. 

To make Salep. 

PtJ T half anOuftce of Salep to a Pint of 
Water, fet it oVSr the Fire, and ffir it 'tijl '' 
'tis as thick as Chocolate, and feafon it with 
•Rofe-Water, or Oratige-flower Water, or 
Sack : If you like it better, a littk Juice of i 

Lemon and Sugar* 'Tis good forWeak of 
Confumptivc People. "m 

E J 70 



66 A ColUdipn of Receipts 

To make Orange- Marmalade, very good. 

nPAKE eighteen fair large iS(?z;/7fe-0ranges, 
-*• pare them very thin, then cut them in 
halves, and fave their Juice in a clean Veflcl, 
and fet it covered in a cool Place; put the half 
Oranges into Water for one Night, then boil 
them very tender, Ihifting the Water 'till all 
the Bitternels is out, then dry them well and 
pick out the Seeds and Strings as nicely as 
you can ; pound them fine, and to every 
Pound of Pulp take a Pound of double-re- 
fin'd Sugar J boil your Pulp and Sugar almoft 
to a Candy-height : When this is ready, yoil 
muft take the Juice of fix Lemons, the Juice 
. of all the Oranges, ftrain it, and take its full 
'Weight in double- refin'd Sugar, all which 
pour into the Pulp and Sugar ; and boil the 
whole pretty faft 'till it will Jelly. Keep 
your GlaflTes cover'd, and 'twill be a lafting 
wholefbme Sweet-meat for any Ufe. If you 
would rather have it Jelly, add Pippin- Jdly, 
and leave out half the Juice of Orange and 
Lemon. 



Lemon-Cakes. 



T 



A K E a Pound of double-refin'd Sugar, 
beat and fift it very fine, wet it with 
Juice iof Lemon, boil it almoft to a Candy- 
height, then drop it on Plates; fej: it in a 
warm Place, 'till they will flip off the Plates. 

vi They 



-o. 






-:> itn CooJcery, &c. 6t 

.They are grateful ^ and proper to quench 
l^/Thirft* You may. ftired the Peel very fine, 

and boil up with one half, if you like it : but 
-r- add frelh Juiee with that, or /twill be too 

thick to drop neatly* 

Orange-^Chips. 

#^ U T off the Peels of very fine Oranges, 
V^ not too thin, boil them in a large quan* 
tity of Water, fhifting them often, that they 
may not be bitter : When they are tender, 
dry them, and take their Weight in double- 
refin'd Sugar ; . boil the Chips and Sugar, 
when wet, to a Candy, 'till the Sugar be 
almoft confumed ; Lay theni thin on Plates 
to dry. . . 

JcIIy jt)/ CurrantSt 

nPAKE yoMt Currants, and ftrip them 
^ from the Stalks into a Gally-pot, which 
f ot you muft put into a Kettle of Water 
over the Fire 'till they be enough j ftrain 
them through a Flanel Jelly-bag, but don't 
fqueeze it; add to the Liquor its Weight in 
double-rcfin'd Sugar, boil both up for a quar- 
ter of an Hour very gently, then put it into 
, Glaffes; 



E 0, Aprl- 



69 A Cotle£ihn of Keceipti 

Apricot-Chips. 

T^ A K E the Weight of the whole Aprf- 
cot in doublc-refin'd Sugar, then flice 
them the long- way, but don't pare them; 
boil your Sugar to a thin Candy, then put 
the Fruit in, and let them ftand on the Fire 
^dU icalding-^bot ; lay them thin on Plates, 
and fet them ih the Sun to dry, when thdy 
hare lain one Night in the Liquor. 



To Trefirije Apricots in Jelly. 



T 



O . a Pound of Apricots, before they are 
ftoned and pared, take a •Pound and a 
quarter of double- refin'd Sugar ; ftonc and 
pare your Apricots, and have your Sugar 
finely beat j-afc you pare them, lay Ibme Su- 
gar under and over themi ; when the Sugar 
is pretty wefl rheited, fet them^ on th6 Fire 
and boil thefti ; keep Ibme Sugar out to ftrew 
on them in th^ boiling, to keep their Colour j 
and as the Scujw rifes, take it oflf very clean, 
and fortietfmifc'^ turti them with the Ladle, as 
you fee Occafidn : When they are tender,, put 
them into Gtalft^. Add to your .Syrup, a 
quarter of a Pint of Pipin-liquor, and the 
Weight of it in Sugar, and let it boil a while ; 
put it to your Apricots : Let your Fire 
be quick ; for the fooner any White-Swcct- 
'meat is done, 'twill look the better. You 
* may 



/ 



} 



\ 



in Cookery, ^c, 6^ 

}uiy let the Liquor run through a Jelly- bag, 
if you would have it delicately clear. 



Prawlings, or Frfd Almonds, 



T 



AKE a Pound of the beft Jordan^ 
Almonds, rub them vejy clean from the 
Duft : Take their Weight in Loaf-Sugar, wet 
it with Orange-flower- Water, and boil it to 
a Syrup ; then throw the Almonds into it, 
and boil them to a Candy, confbntly /Hir- 
ing 'till they are dry ; then put thtm into a 
Difh, and take away the loofe Bits and Knolls 
which will be about them : Put the -Almonds 
again into the Preferving-pan, and fet them 
on a flow Fire, 'till fome of their Oil comes 
from them into the Bottom of the Pan. 

fto ^referv6 Orange-Flowers. 

piCK the Flowers, and little Oranges and 
•* Stalks apart> boil the Flowers ' in clear 
Water 'till they are tender j boil the: little 
Oranges and Stalks alio in feveral Waters^ 
'till th^ Bitternefs be quite gone : To a Pound 
of Flowers take three PoVmds of doublc- 
refin'd Sugar, wet . the Sugar with Water, 
and boil it to a Syrup ; then drain the 
Flowers from their Water, and. put them into 
the Syrup, boil them a little^ and put them 
iiito GlaU?5. 



1 t 

70 A ColU^ion of Receipts 

i 

' Cakes of Orange-Flowers. 

TO a Pound of Flowers take five Pounds 
of ddublc^r efinM Sugar ; dip your Su- , 
gar in Water, and lay it in the Preferving- 
pan to melt ; pick the out-fide Leaves off, 
boil the Flowers in Water 'till they are tender, 
and drain them well : While they boil, you 
muft fet your diffolv'd Sug3.r on the Fire, and 
boil it to thick Syrup, and be fure to jet it 
ftand to be cold, before you put in your 
Orange-flowers ; drop them nicely oa Plates, 
in round Crakes, and dry them in the hot Sun, 
or a Stove, 

9 

A wry good Way to make Confcrve of 

Rofes. 



AKE a ftrong Infufion of Red Rofes 



M 

XT A with Red-rofe Water, as much as you 
think will boil the Quantity you intend to 
make ; then take the frefh Buds of Rofes, 
and clip off all the white and withered 
Leaves j and boil thcfe Buds in the infuled 
Liquor, as foft as may be, 'till they are very 
tender, and as red as they were at firft; 
then take them out, and weigh them, and 
put twice the Weight of double-refinM Sugar, 
an(5 fcoil it again, with' the Sugar, ag faft as 
m fee, 'till it JcUics j when you tal5;c it out, 

yp« 



in Cookery, ^c. 71 

you may add either Amber, Pearl, Coral, 
Gold, or Spirit of Vitriol ; thefe laft Addi- 
tions, are as . well made, when 'tis ufed ; 
becaufe 'tis good for many Diftfempers, and 
they may be fuited to the Occafion. 

A Powder for Digeftion. * 

np AK E a very large Nutmegs the fame 
■*• Weight in Mace, the Tame Weight iii 
Annifecds, and the Weight of all the Ingre- 
dients of Angelica-leeds ; bake all theie in the 
middle of a fm.all brown Wheaten-Loaf, 
when 'tis enough take out the Spice and 
Seeds, and beat them to a very fine Powder, 
with Powder of Grab's- Eyes, and double- 
refin'd Sugar, of each a like Quantity, enough 
to make the Powder palatable ; take as much 
as will lie on a Shilling, after every Meal. 
I have known it wonderfully rch'eve a windy, 
fbure, weakened Stomach; jt muft be conti** 
nued a Month or two. 

To Candy any fort of Flowers. 

np A K E the beft treble refin'd Sugar you 
^ can get, break it in Lumps, dip them 
piece by Piece in Water; put them in a Sil- 
ver Sauce- pan^ or Bafon, melt them over the 
Fire ; when it j[utt boils, ftrain it through a 
Muflin, and fet it on the Fire agak, and let 
it hoilj, 'lill it draws in Hairs, which you 

fi 4 majr 



y.i A CoJle^ion of Receipts^ 

may fee by holding up your Spoon ; then 
put in the Flowers, of any Sort, and fet them 
in Cups or Glafies, and when 'tis of a hard 
Candy, break it in Lumps, and lay it' as high 
as you pleafe : Dry it in ^ Stove, pr the 3ulq^ 
and 'twi^ look like Sugar-eandy^ 

Thick Ginger-Bread. 

A Pound and half of Flour, takes up one 
- Pound of Treacle, almoft as miich Sur 
gar, an Ounce of beaten Ginger, two Ounces 
of Caraway-feeds, four Ounces of Citron, 
and Lemon-peel candy'd, the Yolks of four 
Eggs; cut your Sweet-meats, mix all, ^nd 
bake^ it in large Cakes, on Tin-plates. 

Wafers. 

l^RY your Flour, and make it into 9, 
thick Batter with Cream, put in Mace 
very fine beat, a little Sugar to yoiir Tafte; 
Buttef your Irons, and let them be hot, then 
put in a Tea-fpoonful of the Batter ; fo bake 
them with Care, and roll them off the Iron, 
on a linall Stick. 

AgOQ^ Sort 0/ Portugal-Cakes. 

*TpAKE a Pound of new Butter, and <(x 
Eggs, leaving out two Whites ; then 
yror|: it together yi\\^ your pand, 'till the 

:s 




in Cookery, c^r. 7 j 

Eggs are perfeftly mixt in the Butter ; to this 
put one Pound of Loaf-Sugar fifted, a Pound 
of fine Flour dry'd, half a Pound of Cur- 
rants, a little beaten Mace, mix all together^ 
Butter .the Pans: fill and bake them in an 
Oven that won^t colour a white Papcn 

* 

• ^Caraway-Cake, without Teafi. 

'Tp A K E five Pounds of Flour, and four 
Pounds of fingle-refin'd Sugar beat, and 
finely fifted, mix this with a Pound and half 
of Carraway-feeds \ to^ this Quantity, you 
muft take four Pounds of Butter, which muft 
be work'jd in eight Spoonfuls of Orange- 
flower W^er 'till 'tis perfedly mix*df< an4 
looks like Cream ; break twenty SJggs, but 
half of the Whites, be^t them wel| j and v\ 
beating, add fix Spoonfqls of Sack, ftrew ici 
the Flour, Sugar, and Seeds, by little ai;4 
little, into the Eggs and Butter, wit|i a Poun^ 
of candy 'd Citron, Lemon and Orange-peel ; 
JjCt the firft Fiercenefsof your Oven be over, 
before you put the C^kc in* fpr fear of 
' fcorching ; for the Oven muft be hot, and 
you muft keep beating your Calc;e, 'till it 
goes into the Hoop, which muft be juft aa 
$he Oven is ready. 

Hote^ That half a Pound qf the.Carkway^ 
ff^d§ m^y be omitted. 



4^ 



\ 

i 



74 -^ CoUe£iwn of Receipts 



An excellent Plumb-Pudding. 

npAKE one Pound of Suet, flired very 
^ fmall and fifted, one Pound of Raifins 
fton'd, four Spoonfuls of Flour, and four 
Spoonfuls of Sugar, five Eggs, but three 
Whites ; beat the Eggs with a little Salt : 
Tie it up clofe, and boil it four Hours at 

To make Stone-Cream. 

np A K E a Pint and half of thick Cream, 
«*• boil in it a Blade of Mace, and a Stick 
of Cinnamon, and fix Spoonfuls cflf Orange- 
flower Water, fweeten it to your Tafte ; ^ 
and boil it 'till thick ; then pour it out, and 
keep it ftirring 'till 'tis almoft cold ; then put 
in a finall Spoonful of Runnet, and put it 
into your Cups' or Glafles : Make it three or 
four Hours before you ufe it j 'tis good. 

^0 make Cracknels. 

I 

TO a Quart of Flour,^ take a Pound of 
Butter, half a Nutmeg grated, the 
Yolks of four Eggs beat, with four Spoonfuls 
of Rofe- water ; put the Nutmeg and Eggs 
into the Flour, and wet it into a ftiff Pafle, 
with cold Water ; then roll in the Butter, and 
make them into Ihapc j put them into a 

Kettle 



in €ookery, ^c. ' 7 5 

♦ 

'Keltic of boiling Water ; when they fvvim, 
take them out with a Skimmer, and put 
them into cold Watery when they arc 
hardened, lay them out to dry, and bake 
them on Tin-places* , 

A very good Seed- Cake. 

^ ' * > 

'T^ A K E a quarter of a Peck of line Flour,' 
^ and dry it before the Fire, with three' 
quarters of a Pound of Sugar ; beat a quarter 
of a Pound of Almonds ; to keep them from 
Oiling, pour in cwo Spoonfuls of Orange- 
flower Water, as you beat them, and mix 
this with the Flour and Sugar j put in the' 
full Weight of a Pound and half of Butter ; rub 
in one half dry, and melt the other in a full 
Pint of Cream j before you begin to mix, put 
a Pint of good Ale-yeaft, to half a Pint of 
Sack, and let it rife before the i'lre ; let your 
Butter and Cream juft melt over a gentle 
Fire, and when 'tis pretty cool, make a Hole 
in the middle of your Flour, and povir in 
the Cream and Butter, the Sack and Yeaft, 
with nine Eggs, leaving out four Whites; 
beat and ftrain your Eggs, and mix all well 
together, and fct it to the Fire to rife : 
When 'tis ready to put into the Hoop, niix 
in a Pound and a half of fmooth Carraways, 
with half a Pound of Citron, Orange and Le- 
mon peel candy 'd ; cut this in long Bits, and 
ftiew i( in the Middle of your Cake : You 

may 



7^ A CoUe£iion of Receipts. 

may put more Sweeumeat^, anj3 Ice it, if you 
d?fire it very rich. 

^he London-' Wigs. 

^T*AKE a quarter of a Peck of Flour, 
■*■ put to it half a Pound of Siigar, and 
9s much Caraways, fmooth or rough, as you 
like \ mix thefe, and fet them to the Fire to 
dry, then make a Pound and half of Butter 
hot over a gentle Fire ; ftir it often, and add 
to it near a Quart of good Milk or Cream; 
when the Butter is ndfelted in the Cream, . 
pour it into the middle of the Flour, and 
to it pour a little Sack, and full a Pint and 
Ijaif of very good Ale-yeaft ; let it ftand be- 
fore the Fire to rife, before you lay them on 
your Tin-plat?s to bake. 

• 

Egg Minc'd-^Pyes. 

*TpAKE fix Eggs, boil them very hard, 
^ and ftired them finall ; flired double the 
quantity of good Suet very fine j put. Cur- 
rants, neatly wafh'd and pick'd, one Pound, 
or more if your Eggs were large j the Peel 
of one Lemon very fine ihred, half the Juicej^ 
and five or fix Spoonfuls of Sack, Mace, 
Kutmeg, Sugar, and a little Salt ; and Can- 
dy 'd Citron, or Orange-peel, * if you would 
have them rich. 



% •■ - 



^ 



in Cooktry, c^c. f/ 

An extraordinary Plumb-Cake* 

np A K E feven Pounds of 6ne Flour, and 
two Pounds and half of Butter ; put the 
Butter into the Flour ; feven Pounds of Cur- 
rants, and two large Nutmegs, with half an 
Ounce of Mace, and a quarter of an Ounce 
of Cloves, all finely beat and grated j one 
Pound of Sugar, fixteen Eggs, leaving out 
four Whites, put in a full Pint and half of 
Ale-yeaft ; warm as much Cream as you 
think will wet it, and pour Sack to your 
Cream, to make it as thicfc_as Batter ; beat 
alio one Pound of Almonds, with Sack and 
Orange-flower Water ; but don't let them be 
fine, but grofly beat ; put in a Pound of can-* 
dy'd. Orange, Lemon,- and Citron-peel, or 
more, if you defire it very rich j mix all, and 
put it into your Hoop, with a Pafte under it, 
to fave the Bottom. This was given by one 
of the niceft Houle- wives m England:^ and Is 
as good as ever was made. 



Icing for the Cake. 



T 



A K E the Whites of five Eggs, whipt 
up to ' a Froth, and put a Pound of 
double-refin'd. Sugar fitted^ a Grain of Am- 
bergreefe, and three Spoonfuls of Orange- 
flower Water 5 whip it all the while the Cake 
tt in the Oven J when it comes out of the 

Oven, 



Jr8 A ColkElion of Receipt i 

Oven, Ice it; but fet it in no more : Leave 
out the Perfume, if it be ofFenfive* ' 

Lcttioh or Chocolate* PufFs* 

T^AKE halfa Pound of double-refined 
^ Sugar, finely beat and fifted, grate in-* 
tOHtthe yellow Rind of a very fair large Le- 
mon ; then whip up ^he Whfte of an Egg 
to a Froth, and wet it with this Froth ^till 
'tis as ftiff as good working Pafte ; lay it on 
Papers, and bake it in a very flow Oven j 
lay fome round and fbme long : If you make 
Chocolate, grate about an Ounce as you did 
the Peek ' 

Almond^Puffs. -:i. 

T5 E AT two Ounces of blanch'd Almonds, 
■*-' with a quarter of a Pint of Orangip- 
flower Water, and fifted Sugar, *till they are 
fine ; whip up the Whites of three £ggs, 
and mix them with Almonds, Sugar, and 
Orange-flower Water ; then add as much 
fifted Sugar, as will make it into Pafl:e ; lay 
it in Cakes, and bake it in a cool OVen. 
« ' • • . 

'the right Dutch- Wafer. 

« 

np A K E four Eggs, and beat them very 

•*- well, then take a, good Spoonfiil of 

fine Sugar, one Nutmeg grated, a Pint of 

Cream 



in Cookery, ^c. - 7^ 

Cream, and a Pound of Flour, a Pound of 
Butter melted, two or three Spoonfuls of 
Rofe-water, and two good Spoonfuls of 
Yeaft ; mix all well together, and bake them 
in your Wafer-tongs on the Fire. For the 
Sauce, take grated Cinnamon, Sack, and 
melted Butter, fweetned to you^ Taftc. 

To make Ratafia-Cakes. 

np A K E eight Ounces of Apricot-Kernels, 
-^ or, if they cannot be had, Bitter-Al-r 
monds will do as well, blanch thent, and 
beat them very fine with a little Grange- 
flower Water, mix them with the Whites of 
^three Eggs well beaten, and put to them two 
Pounds , of fingle refin'd Sugar finely beaten 
and fifted ; work all together, and 'twill be 
like a Pafte; then lay it in little round Bits 
on Tin-plates flour'd, fet them in an Oven 
that is not too hot, and they will puflf up, 
and be ibon baked. 

The Nuni^Bisket. 

np A K E the Whites of fix Eggs, and beat 
-*- them to a Froth ; take alfohalf a Pound 
of Almonds, blanch and beat theni with the 
Froth of the Whites of your Eggs as it rifes j 
then take the Yolks, with a Pound of fine 
Sugar, beat thefe well together, and mix 
your Almonds with your Eggs and Sugar; 

then 



i 



to A CotteBtott of ReciipU 

then put iii a quarter of a Pound of Flotlf ^ 
^vith the Peel of two Lemons grated, and 
fome Citron finely fliredj bake ^hem in 
little Cake-pans in a quick Oven, and when 
they are coloured, turn them on Tins, to 
harden the feottOmi ; but before you fet them 
in the OVcn again, ftrew Ibme double-refin'dl 
Sugar on them finely fifted. Remember td 
butter your Pans, and fill them but half* 

Pancakes, very good. 

hp A K E a Pint of thick Cream^ thre^ 
Spoonfuls of Sack, and half a Pint of 
J<lour, fix Eggs (but three Whites) one 
grated Nutmeg, a quarter Of a Pound ot 
melted Butter^ a very little Salt, and fomef 
Sugar J fry thefe thin in a dry Pan* 



To make good Fritters* 



M 



I X half a Pint of good Cream, Vety 
thick with Flotlr, beat fix Eggs, leav- 
ing out four Whites, and to the Eggs put fi* 
Spoonfuls of Sack, and fi:rain them into thei 
Batter ; put in a little grated Nutmeg, Ginger 
and Cinnamon^ all very fine, alfo a littld 
Salt ; then put in another half Pint of Cream^ 
and beat the Batter near an Hour ; piarc and 
flice your Apples thin, dip every Piece m 
the Batter^ aad throw them in a Pan- full of 
jboiling Lard, 

A Spin- 



-^ 



in CJookciy, &c. ' 
A Spinage-Tart, very good. 



U 



^AK E fix Handfuls of Spinagc, walh it 
■■• clean, and dry it, picjk it clean from 
Stalks, and (he hard Rib that goes up the 
Middle of the Leaf, fiired it extremely fine» 
as 'tis poffible to be ; piit to it a Pint of 
grated Bread, the lightefl: you can get, a Pint 
of very thick Cream, nine Eggs (btit four of 
the Whites) three Spoonfuls of Orange- 
flower Water, a little Salt and Sugar to your 
Tafte ; it ought to be pretty fweet ; If with 
your Orange-flower Water, you beat up t^frd 
Ounces 6^ blanch'd Almonds, 'tis an incoiti*- 
parable Addition to the Tafie. Garnilh the 
Brim of your Difti with Pafte, and lay Slips 
crofs the Top. Thus you may make Cou/lip 
T'art ; but that being not fb juicy ^ will bear 
beating in a Mortar. Heat it with Care be^* 
fore it be put into the Difli* 

An Almond Tart^ wry goodm 

nr0 half a Pound of Almonds blanched, 
-■• and very finely beat with Orange^flowcx? ^ 
Water, put a Pint of thick Cream, two large* 
Naples-Biskets grated, and five Yolks of 
Eggs, near half a Found of Sugat ; put all 
into aDilh garnifhed with Pafte, ihd lay Slips 
in Diamonds crofs the Top ^ bake it in 1 cool 

- F OVcB^ 



8f A C^ie^ion of Receipn 

Oven, and when it comes out, fticfc. Slips of 
candy 'd Citron in each Diamond. . 

yb Trefirve Goldcn#Pippins, the hefi 

Way. 

TAKE to a Pound of Apples, a Pound of 
double-relin'd Sugar, and a Pint of 
clear Spring- Water j fet it on the Fire ;, neatly 
pare the Fippins, and take out che Stalks an^ 
Eyes, put them into* the Sugar and Water, 
cover them clofe^ and let them boil as faft as 
you can, half a quarter of an Hour ; then take 
them oW a little to cool ; then &t them on 
again, to boil as faft and as long as they did 
before j do this three or four timc^ Vill they 
are very clear : Cover them very clofe^ 'till 
you make the following Jelly for thcnu 

C€)dlm or Pippin- Jelly. 

SLICE a Pound of Codlins or Pippins into 
a Pint of clear Spring-Water, let them 
boil 'till the Liquor takes all the Tafte of 
the Fruit ; then ftrain k out, and to a Pint of 
this Liquor take a Pound of double-rdfin'd 
Sugar, boird to Sugar again ; then put ia 
your Codlin Liquor,, boil it a Kttle together^ 
as faft as you can ; then put in your Golden- 
Pippins, boil them up faft for a little while j 
|uft before the laft Boiling, fqueeze in the 
juice of a Lemon ^ boil it up quick once 




I 




in Cookery, c^r. S ; 

- inofe ; take great care they do not lofe Co** 
lour : Take the Pippins out, and put them 

' into the Glaffes with the Jelly. This is the 
rooft grateful way that ever was invented to 
prelerv^ them. 

To make Raifin Elder- Wine. 

nr AKE fix Gallons of Water^ and boil it 
-*• half an Hour ; and when 'tis boil'd,, 
add to ievery Gallon of .Water five Pounds of 
Malaga Raifins flited fmaU j pour the Water 
boiling-Iwt upon them, and let it ftand nine 
Days, ftirring it twice a Day ; boil your Ber- 
Ties as you do Currants for Jelly, and ftrain 
it as fine ; then add to every Gallon of Liquor 
a Pint of Elder-berry Juice ; When you have 
ftirr'd all well together, fpread a Toaft on 
both Sides with Yeaft, let it work a Day and 
a Night, then put it into a Ycffel, which be 
fure to fill as it works over ; ftop it dole, 
when it has done working, till you are fure 
>5, 'tis fine, then bottle it. 

Jnotbefj V0ry Wholefome. 

TO every Gallon of pickM Elder-berries, 
put a full Gallon of Water, boil them 
together, till the Berries are tender, then 
strain it oflF thro' a fine Sieve j let what will 
run thro*, but don't prefs the Berries ; to 
every Gallon of the Liquor, put two full 

F 2 Pounds 




-\ 



$4 A Collection of Receipts 

Pounds of good Lisbon Sugar : This Sort fot 
prcfcnt Drinking, What you dcfign to fcefep 
fome Years, muft have two Pounds and a hdf 
of Sugar ; boil the Liquor and Sug^ar toge- 
ther, arid Icum it clean in the Boiling as long 
as any will rife .j when cool, work it with 
. Ycaft for a Night and a Day ; put it into the 
Veffel, and when it has done working, ftop it 
clofe for five or fix Months : Bottle it then, if 
fine. This ought to be the conftant Drink 
for all Gouty People : If well boil'd and 
work'd, it never ferments in the Bottle or 
Stomach. 

Quince Wine, 

/^LEAN the Chinees with a coarfe Cloth^ 
^"-^ then grate them on large Graters ; then 
fqueeze them through a Linen Strainer, to 
clear it from the grofsThickneis; then fqueeze 
it through a Flannel Strainer^ to clear it from 
all the Thick that remains : To every Gal- 
lon of this Liquor, put two Pounds of fingle 
Loaf-Sugar j let it dilTolve, and pour it oflF 
feveral times, as it fettles to the Bottom j do 
this a Night and a Day : When 'tis fine, put 
it into your Veffel, but don^t ftop it down 
for a Week, nor bottle it in fix Months j then 
you may, if 'tis pcrfedly fine ; if not, draw 
it into another Veifel, and ftop it up again. 

Be fure to put aU Englifh Wines into cool 
Cellars/ 

Orange- 



in Cookery, &c, % y 

Orange-Wine. K^ 

'*T*0 fix Gallons of Spring- water, put twelve i^ 
-*■ Pounds of fingle-refin'd Sugar, the 
Whites of four Eggs well beaten ; put thefe 
to the Water cold ; then let it boil three 
quarters of an Hour, taking off the Scum as 
faft as it riles : When 'tis cold, put in fix 
Spoonfuls of Yeaft, and fix Ounces of Syrup 
of Lemon, beaten together ; put in alio the 
Juice and Rind of fifty large Oranges thin ' 
par^d, that no white Part, nor any of the 
Seeds go in with the Juice, which mould be 
ilrain'd : Let all this Hand two Nights and 
two Days in an open VeffeJ, or large Pan, ' 

then put it into your clofe ^flfel, and in three 
or four Days flop it down : When it has 
flood three Weeks thu^^ draw it off into 
another Veffel, and add to it two Quarts of 
Rhenilh or W hit q- wine j thfen flop ft dole i 

again, and in a Month or fix Weeks, 'twill 
be fine enough to bottle, and to drink in a 
Month after. Ifyoi| defire it fliouldkeep, 
put in Brandy inftead of Rhenifli. 

Birch-Wine, as made in Suflfcx. 

TAK:^ the Sap of Birch frefli drawn ^ 
boil it as long as any Scum ariles ; to 
every Gallon of Liquor, put two Pounds of 
good Sugar j boil it half an Hour, and fcum 

F 3 it 






%6 A CoJk^ion of Receipts 

it very clean ; when 'tis almoft cold, fet it 
with a little Yeaft fprcad on a Toaft ; let it 
ftand five or fix Days in an open Veflel^ ftir- 
ring it often ; then take fuch a Cask as the 
Liquor will be fare to fill ; and fire a large 
Match dipp'd in Brimftone, and put it into 
the Casfc^ and fl:op in the Smoak, till the 
Match is extinguifti'd, always keeping it 
Ihook ; then fliakc out the Aflies, and, as 
quick as poffible, pour in a Pint of Sack, or 
Rhenilh, which Tafte you like beft, for the 
.Liquor retains it ; rince the Cask well with 
this, #nd pour it out : Pour in your Wine, 
and flop it clofe for fix Months ; then, if 'tis 
perfedly fine, you may bottle it. 

Bkck-Cherry Wine. 

*. 

TJOIL fix Gallons of Spring* Water one 

-*-' Hour ; then bruife twenty-four Pounds 

of Black Cherries, but don't break the 

Stones J pour the Water boiling hot on- the 

Cheries, ftir the Cherries well in the Water^ 

and let it ftand twenty-four Hours ; then 

ftrain it ofi^, and to every Gallon put near two 

Pounds of good Sugar ; mix it well with the 

Liquor, and let it ftand one Day longer ; ^then 

pour it off" clear into the Veffel, and ftop it 

clofe : Let it be very fine, before you draw it 

off intQ Bottles, 



#» Cookery^ ^cl St 

/ . 

Sage- Wine, very good. 

TT O twcnty-eight Pounds of Malaga Rai- 
-■• fins picked and flircd, have twenty- 
eight Quarts of Spring-Water well boil'd, but 
let it be cool as Milk from the Cow, before . 
you pour it "on the Raifins ; then put in half 
a Bufliel of Red Sage grofly flied ; ftir all 
together, and let it ftand fix Days, ftirring 
it very well every Day, and cover it as clofe 
as you can J then ftrain it off, and pour it 
into your Veffel ; it will loon be fine, but 
you may add two Quarts of Sack or White- 
wine to fine it : Raifins of the Sun will do 
r^as w^ll zs Malaga^ if they cannot be had. 

Cherfy-Wine, as In Kent. 

WHEN yout Red Cherries are full ripe, 
ftrip them from the Stiigs, and ftamp 
them, as Apples, till the Stones are broke ; 
then put it into a Tub, and cover it up dole 
for three Days and Nights j then prefe it in 
a Cyder-prels, and put your Liquor again 
into a Tub, and Jet it ftand clofe covered two 
Days moM ; then take off the Scum very 
carefully, for fear of jogging, and pour it off 
the Lees into another Tub, and let it ftand 
to clear two Days more, then fcum and pour 
ft off, as before. If your Cherries were full 
ripe and fweet, put only a Pound and a half 

F 4 of 



«/ 



$3 A CoJle^ion cf Receipts 

of good Sugar to each Gallon of Liquor ;, ftir 
it well together, and cover it clofc, and ftir 
it no iViore till the next Day ; then pour it 
carefully o|F the Lees, a3 before ; let it ftand 
again, and do the fame the next Day into the 
Vpffel you keep it in : You may repeat this 
pftener, if you fee the Lees are grofs and 
like to make it fret. When \i$ fettled, flop 
it up till feven or eight Months are paft ; then, 
if 'tis perfpdly fine, bottle it ; if not, draw 
it off into another Veffel, and flop it up as 
jnu6h longer : 'Twill kepp feven Ypars, if 
bottled fine, and had not beft be drank, till 
*tis a Year old. Our Englifb Wixics ^f^nt 
only Age, to equal, if not exceed all foreign 
Liquors. 

Rasberry- Wine, verj good. 

TO every Quart of Fruit, you muft pou|:, 
boiling-hof , a Quart of Water j cover 
it very clole, and l^t i^ ftand twenty-four 
Hours J then ftrain it, and to three-Quirts of 
Liquor, put two Pounds of good Sugar j ftir 
it together, and fpread a Toaft with Yeaft t 
fet it to work, and pour it off the Lees j put 
it into your Veffel, and \yhen it has quite 
done working, flop it up : If 'tis fine in fix 
or leven Months, you may bottle it, and keep 
it a Year in Bottles* 

Note^ You muft at firft watch all Wines ; 
and if you find them fret, continue to fine 

thtm 



in Cookery, ^c^ 89 

ihjBtn ofif the X-ees every P^y, for fpmc tiinc, 
a^5 faft as any fettles. 

■t « 

White Mead, fuery good. 

TO every Gallon of Water, put a Pint of 
Honey, and half a Pound of Loaf-Sugar; 
ftir in the Whites of Eggs beat to a Froth, 
and boil it as long as any Scum arifes ; when 
^tis cold, work it with Ycaft, and to every 
Gallon, put the Juice and Peel of a large 
Lemon : Stop it up when it has done work- 
ing, and bottle it ten Days* 

3^9 »?w^e Apricot- Wine, Ipcqmparabk. 

TO two Gallops of Spring- water, take eight 
Pounds of ripe Apricots, nice them into 
the Water,* and add to both five Pounds of 
Loaf-Sugar ; let all boil, and be nicely fcumm'd 
as fail: as it rifes, but let it boil ibme time 
before you begin to fcum ; take your Scum off 
into a clean Sieve, and fct it in a Pot, to favc 
vrhat Liquor comes from it : When the Wine 
is clear as you can make it from the Drofs of 
the Sugar, pour it hot upon the Kernels, 
which muft be crack'd, and put, with the 
Shells, into the Pan you delign the Liquor to 
cool in J ftir \t together, and cover it •till 
cool, thea worl?: it with a Toaft and Yeaft ; 

and 



\ 




/ 



po A Colh€iion of Receipts 

^nd in two or three Days, when 'tis fettled, 
fine it off into your Vcffel 5 let it work as 
long> as it will } when it has done working, 
pour in a Bottle of Rhenifh, or finall White- 
wine, and flop it up for fix Months j then, 
if rery fine, iDottle it, and keep it a Twelve- 
tnontb longer. 

Damafccn-Winc. 

'HP O every Gallon of Water, put two Pounds 
-*• and a half of Sugar, which you muft boif 
and fcum three quartets of an Hour ; and to 
every Galldn, put five Pints of Damafcens 
fton'd ; let them boil till 'tis of a fine Colour, 
then ftrain it thro' a fine Sieve ; work it in 
an Open Veffel three or four Days, then pour . 
it ofi" the Lees, and let it work in that Veifel 
as long as it will ; then ftop it up for fix or 
eight Months, when,, if fine, you may bottle 
it ; Keep it a Year or two in Bottles. * 

• 

Cowflip or Marigold-^ Wine. 

'T^ O every Gallon of Water, take two Pounds 
-^ and a half of Sugar, boil this an Hour, 
.and fcum it very well, and pour it boiling- 
hot upon the Yellow Tops of cither Sort of * 
' Flgwers : To every Gallon of the Liquor put 
half a Peck of Flowers nicely cut ; let this 
ftecp all Night, and to each Gallon iquecze in ' 

two 



in Cookery, &cl 91 

two or three Lemons, with a Piece of Peel 
cut thin : When thcfe have fteepM a Night 
and a Day, work it with a Toaft and Yeaft : 
When you put it in your Veflel, pour it from 
the Settlement j and when it has worked as 
long as it will, pour into every Gallon one 
Pint of Rhenifli, or White- -^'ne. If 'tis fine 
in fix Months, you may hot* -:j^^ it,^ but 'tis 
beft to drink at three \)r feur Years old. 
Either Sort is cordial, wholefome, and plea-» 
fant. 

ito Improve Cyder, and make it per^ 

HEN 'tis firft made, put into a Hogs- 
head fix Ounces of Brimftone in the 
Stone, to colour it ; put a Gallon of good 
Iprench Brandy highly tinftur'd with Cochi- 
neal J beat one Pound of AUum, and three 
^ Pounds of Sugar-candy fine, and put it in, 
when you flop it up : Whtfn 'tis fine, bottle . 
it, which will be in fix Months. This great 
Seprct is iuccefsfuUy praftis'd by the Hcn^ 
fordjbire Artifts, 

To make Milk-Punch. 

I 
9 

HP O two Qiiarts of Water, put two Quarts 

-* of good French Brandy, a dozen and a 

- half of LcmonSj three (quarters of a Pound of 

double^ 



w 



pi- A CoikStion of Receipts 

doublc-refin'd Sugar, apd three Pints of new > 
Milk ; mix all together, and ftrain it thro' a 
)!elly*bag j put it up often, till it looks per-? 
fcftly clear and firif . You muft make it a 
Day or two before you ufe it ; for it will wi 
keep Ibng bottled. 

'To mflkejirong Mead, 

TO four Gallons of Water, put eighteen 
Pounds of Honey ; beat the Whites of 
four Eggs, ftir them in with the Honey till 
k be all melted ; fcum it v^ell as long as it 
boils, and be fure it boil an Hour and a half: 
If you like the TJ'afte, you may put a Sprig 
of Riofemary in the boiling^: When 'tis cold, 
work it with a Toaft ipread with Ycaft ; and 
when you put it into the Veflel, hang tljprp- 
in one Nutmeg, the Weight of that in Mape, 
and the fame Qyantity in Gloves, vvith four 
Races of Ginger, in a Piece of Muflin ; the 
Spice muft be beaten ; put in the Pepl of two 
Lemons. When it has done working, flop 
it up, and let it ftand fix Months, before you 
bottle it. 

To fiiah Goofebcrry-Wine. 

np O four Pounds of Goofeberries full ripe, 
-■• put a Quart of Water, and to every Gal- 
lon of Water, put four JPpunds of Sugar ; 

bruifc 



I 



^ in Cookery, c^r. pf 

bruife the Goofebcrrics well, and let them 
ftand in the Water two Days, ftirring it twice 
or thrice a Day, and then ftrain it through a 
iitie Hair Bag ; then put in the Sugar, andf 
ftir it very Well 'till it is melted ; When it is 
well mix'd, cover it, and let it ftand a while ; 
then ftrain it through a Flannel Bag into the 
Veffel : When it has done working, ftop it 
cloie, and let it ftand fix Weeks, or two 
Months, and, if fine, bottle it. 

Nothing of Brafs muft be ui^d about any 
Wine. 

1^0 make Elder-flower Wine* 

np O twelve Gallons of Water, put thirty 
•*^ Pounds of lingle Loaf-Sugar, boil it 'till 
two Gallons be wafted, fcumming it well j 
let it ftand 'till it be as cool as Wort, then 
put two or three Spoonfuls of Yeaft ; when it 
w^orks, put in two Quarts of Bloilbms, pick'd 
from the Stalks, ftirring it every Day 'till it 
has done working, which will not be under 
five or fix Days ; then ftrain it, and put it 
into the Veffel : After it is ftopt down, let it 
ftand two Months, and thcn^ if fine, bottle iX. 



*ie-> ;%.' 



ip4 -^ Colledton of Receipts 

To riiake Ratafia. 

TO every Gallon of Brandy, put a Quart 
of the beft Orange-flower Water, and a 
Quart of good French White- wine j you muft 
alfo take care your Brandy be right and good ; 
tojeach Gallon of Brandy, you muft likewife 
put four hundred Apricot-ftones, and a Pound 
and a quarter of White Sugar-candy ; juft 
crack the Stones, and put them in, Shells 
and all, into a large Bottle^ which muft be 
very clofc ftopp'd, and feaPd down ; let it 
ftand in the Sun for fix Weeks ; take it in 
every Night, and in wet Weather ; and ftiake 
it when you take it in, or let it out : After 
this is done, you muft let it ftand to fettle, 
and rack it ojff, till ^tis perfcftly fine.^ 

Cinnamon- Water, very good, * 

T N two Gallons of extraordiiftry Brandy, 
-*• ftcep a Pound of good Cinnamon bruis'd, 
there let it lie thr^e or four Days ; then put 
it into your Limbeck, with two Quarts of 
cold-ftiird Plantain- water ; you may draw 
as much off as you put in ; and with a Quart 
of the fmalleft, boil up two Pounds and an 
half of double^ refin'd Sugar : When 'tis cold, 
mix all together ft>r your Ufe. 'Tis a noble 
Cordial. 

A Cor- 



\ 



in Cookeryj &Ci '9J 

t 

A Cordial Orange^ Water. 

TAKE three Quarts of good Brandy, and 
the Rinds of a dozen and a half of 
Oranges, pare them very thin, that none of 
the White go in, let them ftecp in the Brandy 
three Days and Nights clofe ftopt ; then take 
five Pints of fair Water, and a Pound and a 
half of double-refin'd Sugar : Boil this Sy- 
rup half an Hour, and fcum it as any rifes ^ 
then ftrain it through a Jelly-bag, and Ut if 
Hand 'till cold ^ then mix it with the Brandy^ 
which muft be firft pour'd from the Peels^ 
and fettled : Keep it for Ule* 

Thus you may do I^mons^ which is a plea^ 
fanter Cordial. ^ 

To make Citron* Water* 

• ■ ♦ . 

TAKE Citrons, and pare off the outward 
Rin^K^^iail^Finger thick, flice them 
thin ; and take the Citron K^i'nels, flice them 
in as you think fit ; put as much good Sack 
as will cover them over the Top j put afl into 
a Stone jug, and ftop it very clofe ; let it 
ftand in a Cellar five Days, then diftil it in 
a Glafs Still ; let it run into a Bottle whereia 
is fine Sugar Candy in Powder, and Amber- 
greefe : Draw off in fever al Runnings, and 
mix it as you like. 



$4: ji Colk&ion of Retetpts 
To make Spirk of ClaryJ 

TAKE a Gallon of good Sack, a Pint 6f^ 
the Juicy of Clary, a Pound of Clary- 
fldWcrs, as many Clove- July-flowers, and 
half as many Archangel-flowers, as many/ 
Coirifry-flowers, and as many Flowers of 
Lilies of the Valley. ; let thefe fteep in the 
Sack all Night, then put it into a Glafs Still ; 
the fbfter it diftils, the flronger 'twill be : 
You muft have great Care to keep in the 
Spirits, by pafting the Still every ^Vhere ; let 
k drop through a Bag of good Amber-greefe 
upon as much iifted Whi(e Sugar-candy aS' 
you think will fwfcetcfl it. Tis a very high 
Cordial. 

jTo make Spirit of Cartways. 

nro aQuart of true Spirit of Sack, pit 
•*• two Pounds of good lmooth-fugar*d 
Caraways, bruile them, and put them into a 
Bottle, with a Grain of the belt Amber-greele ; 
pour the Spirit on them, and feal the Cork 
very clofe ; fet it in the Sun for a Month j 
ftrain it off, and keep it always clofe ftbpt 
for Ufe. One Spoonful does often giye Ealc' 
in the Cholick. 



J C^r- 



in Cookety^ &c. pf 

J Cordial Black-Cherry- Water, ^erj 

' good. 

TAKE two Quarts of ftrong Claret, and 
four Pounds of Black-Chferries full ripe, 
ilamp them, and put them to the Wine, with 

oneHaridfulofAngelica^oneHandful of Balmy 
and as much Carduus, half as much l^int, 
and as many Rofemary-flowers as you can 
hold in both your Hands, three Handfuls of 
Clove- July-flowers, two Ounces of Cinnamon 
cut fmall, one Ounce of Nutmegs 5 put all 
thefe into a deep Pot, let them be well ftirred 
together, then cover it fo clofe that no Air 
can get in ; let it ftand one Day and a Night ; 
then put it into your Still, which you muft 
alio pafle cloie ; and draw as much as runs 
good ; fwecten it with Sugarrcandy to your 
Tafte. 'Tis good in any Melancholy, or for 
the VapourSi 

A very Rich Cherry-Cordial. 

TAKE a Stone Pot th^t has a broid Bot- 
tom, and a narrow Top, and lay a Layer 
of Black Cherries, and a Layer of very fine 
J)pWderM Sugar ; do this 'till yoqr Pot is full : 
Meafure your Pot, and to every Gallon it 
h6lds^ jJut ^ quarter of a Pint of true Spirit 
of Wine. You are to pick your Cherries clean 

G ftom 



pS A Colk&ion ef Receipts y &c. 

from Soil and Stalks, but not waOi them. 
When you, have thus filled your Pot, flop it 
with a Cork, and tie firft a Bladder, then a 
I^eather over it ; and if you feat it is not 
clbfe efiough, pitch it,down clofe, and bury 
it deep in the Earth fix Months, or longer ; 
then ftmo ic out, and keep it clofe flopped 
for your U(e. 'Twill revive, when all other 
Coidkls fail. 



A C O L- 



A 

COLLECTION 

O F 

RECEIPTS 

IN 

Phyfick ^w6. Surgery. 

A Strong Palfey-Wacer. 

|AKE the Spirits of five Galtbns of 
the beft Old Sherry-Sack, diftili'd 
in a Limbeck; take Cowflip- 
flowers, the Flowers of Borage 
and Buglofs, and of the Lilies of the Valley, 
of each one Handful ; take alfo Rolemary- 
flowers. Sage and Betony-flowers^ of eact) 
one Handful ; take each Flower in thek 
Seafon, and Co put into fome of the Spirits 
aforefaid, in an open-mouth'd Glafs of near 
a Qiiart, for that will hold them all, with 
the Spirits, 'till you are ready to dii^il the 
G a ■ Water; 




lOO ACelle^ion of Receipts 

Watery but this, and the reft of the Spirits, 
muft be tnoft carefully ftopt till you ufe it : 
Tak? Lavender-flowers in their Seafon, ftrip 
them clean from their Stalks, and fill a wide- 
mouth'd Gallon Glafs with them j pour into 
them the Remainder of your Spirits ; then 
ftop them clofe with Cork and Bladder (as 
before) and let them ftand fix Weeks to di- 
geft in the Sun ; then put all together, thefe 
and the firft fteep'd Flowers, with all the 
Spirits in both Glafles ; add alio Balm, Mo- 
therwort, Spike - flowers. Bay -leaves and 
Orange-leaves, if to be had, cf each an 
Ounce, cut fmall, and put to the former 
Flowers and Spirits : Diftil all thefe toge- 
ther in a Limbeck ; make three RuYmings 
of it ; firft a Quart Glafs, which will be ex- 
ceeding ftrong J then a Pint Glafs, which 
will be almoft as good j laftly, receive from 
it a Pint Glals-ftiU, or as much as runs fl:rong ; 
for when it runs weak, which you may know 
by ics Tafte and Colour, which will be 
whiter, let it run no longer : Put your three 
Runnings all together : ^ Then take Citron- 
peel, the out-fide Yellow Rind, or Lemon- 
peels thin pared, alfo Pine-feeds hull'd, of 
each fix Drams; of Cinnamon one Ounce ; of 
Nutmegs, Mace, Cardimums, Cucubies, 
and Yellow Sanders, each half an Ounce ; of 
Lignum Aloes one Dram ; make all thefe 
into a grofs Powder, putting among^ them 

alfo 



in Phyfick and Snrgery. loi 

alfo half a Pound of Jujubes new and TOod> 
being fton'd, and cut fmall : Put all thefc 
Ingredients into a Vifbjlte Sarfcnet Bag, to be 
hujig in the Water aforefaid : Take alfo of 
Prepared Pearls, two Drams ; of Prepar'd 
Smaragd, a Scruple ; Amber-greefe, Musk, 
and Saffron, of each one Scruple ; of Red 
Rofes, well dry*d, and fweet, one Ounce : 
Thefe may be put in a little Bag by them- 
felves, and hung in the Spirit as the other ; 
clofe it well, that no Air gets in, for fix Weeks; 
then take out the Water, and prefs the Bags 
dry ; keep the Water in narrow-mouth^d 
Glafles clofe ftopt. 

the life of the Water. 

* 

*Tis fo ftrong and powerful, that it cannot 
be taken alone, but muft be dropt on Crumbs 
of Bread and Sugar by any one, for Preven- 
tion : Take it firft and laft, and at four in 
the Afternoon : Faft always before and aft^r 
it a full Hour at leaft. 'Tis of exceeding 
Virtue in all Swoonings, Weaknefs of Heart, 
and decayed Spirits, in allPalfeys, Apoplexies^ 
both to help in, and prevent a Fit ; /twill 
alfo keep all cold Dilpofitions off the Livei*, 
rcftores loft Appetite, and fortifies and ftrength- 
' ens the Stomach ; 'twill alone cure a t)ropfy, 
if taken at firft, and the Patient be kept from 
fmall and cooling Liquors. 

G 3 ^7?- 



w 



toi A ColkSiiott of Receipts 

A ficond Palfcy- Water, made upon the 
Ingredients of the firjl. 

HEN the firft Water has run what 
is ftrong, there will be fome fmail Wa- 
ter' at the Bottom of the Limbeck j pour it 
put from the Herbs and Flowers, and drain 
them ^ put them mto a Gfallon of the heft 
Cherry ; fo let them ftand clofe ftopp'd, five 
Wcclis ; then diftil them, and let it run aa 
long as it continues ftrong ; then pour it into 
the Glafs where the Sarfenet-bags are, and. 
let them be in this fecond Liquor clofe 
ftopp'd fix Weeks ; then you may ufe it, Jvs 
the former,- with Bread and Sugar ; for tho\ 
this is tK)t fq powerful as the former, 'tis too' 
ft:rong to take alone. Both thefe are good to 
JDathe outwardly the Part affefted with 
Weaknefs by Pally, and generally help any 
violent Pains or Aches that any Part is vex'd 
with ; but becaufe Bathing waftcs moft, and 
this Sort is lefs coftly, they commoftly ufe 
this fecond Sort for that. 

J. very gqod Snail- Water, for a Con'r 

fumption. 

'T^ A KE half a Peck of Shell-Snails, wipe 

^ them, and bruile them. Shells and all, 

in a Mortar ; put to them a Gallon of new 

Milk J as alfo Balm, Mint, Carduus, unfet 

• fly flop, 



in Phyfick and Surgery. 105 

Hyffop, and Barrage, of each one Handful ; 
Raifins of the Sun fton'd, Figs, and Dates, 
of each a quarter of a Pound ; two large Nut- 
megs : Slice all thefe, and put them to the 
Milk, and diftil it with a quick Fire, in a 
cold Still ; this will yield near four Wine- 
quarts of Water very good : You muft put 
two Ounces of White Sugar^candy into each 
Bottle, and let the Water drop on it j ftir 
the Herbs Ibmetimes, while it diftils, and 
keep it covered on the Head with wet Cloths. 
Take five Spoonfuls at a time, firft and laft, 
and at four in the Afternoon. » 

A good Water for the Spleen j a 

Cordial. 

npAKE four Ounces of Harts-horn, one 
-*- Ounce of Cardimums, one Ounce of 
Cinnamon, one Ounce of Saffron, two Hand- 
fuls of Red Sage, as much Balm ; fteep thefe 
twenty-four Hours in two Quarts of Sack, or 
as much good Brandy, which you pleafe ; 
diftil it in a cold Still as quick as you can, 
and let it drop on four Ounces of Sugar-can- 
dy. Drink of this, when low-fpirited. 

A good W^ter for . the Stone. 

• * 

TAKE four Quarts of White Thorn- 
flowers, infufe them .in two Quarts of 
ftrong White- wine, with two Ounces of Nut- 

G 4 meg 



I ©4 A CoUeifion of Receipts 

meg flic'd j let thefe ftand two Days, then 
diftil it in a cold Still. Drink it with Sugar, 
or without, as you like beft, 

j4 Drink for any Inward Bruifc or 

Wound. 

np A K E one Handful of each of tbe Herbs 
•* following, viz. Wormwood, Comfrey, 
Throatwort, Wpod-Betony, Plantain^ Mug- 
wort, Bonewort, Scabious, Avens, Wild 
Honey-Hick Ic, Agrimony, Bramble-buds, 
Cinquefoil, Spearmint, Sanicle, White-bot^ 
tie. Ribwort, Daify-roots, Dandelion, Bu- 
glols, Hauthorn-buds ; Put to thefe Herbsi 
two Quarts of White-wine, and a Gallon of 
funning Water, and boil it till it be half 
wafted J then ftrain it, and add to it a Quart 
of Honey ; let that boil in the Liquor fome 
.time : When 'tis cold, bottle it very clofe, 
^nd keep it for Ufe. 'Twill keep many 
Years, and is neceJFary for ^11 Families ; two 
or three Spoonfuls of it taken Moaning and 
IS^ight. 'Tis really good for Sores, Wounds, 
and Hurts new or old, in Men, Women, 
?ind Children : Its Virtues of that kind are 
too long to mention : It has broken and 
brought away inward Impofthumes, 



in Phyfick and Surgery. lof 

Jn eiCceJUnt Balfam, caUcl^ The Fryers 

Balfam. 

nPAKEa^art of Spiritvof Sack, infufe 
-■^ in it four Ounces of Sarlaparilla cut 
fliort, two Ounces of China flic'd thin, one 
Ounce of Firginia Snake- weed cut finall ; 
put all thefe in a two-quart Bottle, and fet it 
in the Sun, jttiaking it twice or thrice a Day, 
till the Spirit be tindur'd as Yellow as Gold ; 
then clear off the Spirit into another Bottle, 
and put to it eight Ounces of Gum Guaice ; 
fet it in the Sun, as before, fhaking it very 
often, till all the Gum be diffolv'd, except 
Dregs, which will be in ten or twelve Days; 
then clear it a fecond time from the Dregs, 
find put to It one Ounce of Natural Balfam 
pf P^ru ; fliake it well together, and let it in 
the Sun for two Days ; then put in one 
Ounce of Balm of Gtkad ; Ihake all well to- 
gether once more, and fet it in the Sun for a 
Fortnight ; 'tis then fit for Ufe, and will keep . 
many Years. Its Virtues are too long to in- 
fcrt : 'Tis good to take inwardly in moft 
Diftempers, and proper for all Sores or 
Wounds, by pouring in fome Drops, and 
binding Lint thereon. The Dofe, taken iur 
wardiy, is from half a Spoonful to a whole 
one, in Sugar, or any liquid Vehicle, for 
Confumptions, or any inward Ulcer : "^Ufe 
moderate Exercife with it. 



lo^ A CoJkiiion cf Receipts 
Jn Oil for any Bruifc or Wound. 

* 

nPAKE of the tender Yom of the Bay* 
-*• Tree, Red Sage, Lavoider, Worm- 
wood, Plantain, Rue, Tormcntil, Scabious, 
Comfrey, Broom, Rape, Ofmond-royal, 
Southernwood, Camomile, Charity, St. John's- 
wort, Solomon-feal, Amber, Rofcmary, 
Adders-fpear, Golden-Rod, Herb- Robert, 
Ground-pine, Sanicle, and Bugle, of each 
one Handful j ftired all thefe very fmall, and 
infule them in one Quart of Oil-Olive, and 
three Pints of Neat-Oil j ftop them clofe in 
a Gtals Veffel, and let them ftand ten or 
twelve Days in the Heat of the Sun ; ftir 
them every Night, when you take them in : 
After this, boil it over a gentle Fire, till the 
Oil is green ; then ftrain it clear from the 
Herbs, and add to the Oil again half a Hand- 
ful of the Herbs, as before, ftired, with one 
Ounce of Oil of Turpentine, one Ounce of 
Natural Balfani, and one Ounce of Oil of 
Worms : Dlgeft all in the ^ Sun. as before; 
boil and ftrain it, and keep it dole ftopp'd for 
tJfe. It muft be made in May. ' 

ji Salve for the KingVEviU 

np A K E one Pint of the beft Sallad-Oil, 

•■- four Ounces of Red Lead finely ,^ovv- 

derM, as much White Lead, one Ounce of 

Bees- 



^/ 



in Phyfick and Surgery. 107 

Bees- wax thinly flic'd, of Frankincenfe and 
the bett Mafticfc each one Ounce, of Bur-^ 
^nndy Pitch two Ounces ; let all be beaten \ 
boil the Oil and Leads jfome little time to- 
gether over a gentle Fixe ; keep the Oil ftir-i 
ring, while you add the Wax ; then boil theie 
together for half an Hour, ftirring it conftant^ 
ly : Take it off the Fire, and ftir it till the 
Heat i3 abated ; then add your Maftick, and 
keep it from the Fire, till it has done work-* 
ing : Boil it gently again, and put in your 
Frrankincenfe, ftirring it off the Fire, as you 
did before; let it on again, and then add the 
Burgundy Pitch, as before, with Care ; then * 
boil all together, till it looks like Pitch ; ftir 
it till cold : Leave your Sti^k in the Middle, 
and the next Day fet it on the Fire^..to melt 
the Edges ; then take it out, and keep it ia 
an oird.Pap^ for Ufe. Let the Partjr^aifliaed 
fpread a Plaffter as * big as the Swelling is, 
and apply it : If it gather to a Head, and 
break, after you have wafti'd the Wound 
with warm Vinegar, apply fome Lint roU'd 
in an equal Quantity of the Salve warm'd, 
and Honey ; fpread a Plaifter of the Salve, 
and when the Corruption is out, that will 
heal it. 'Tis incomparable, and fafely may 
be ijs'd for any Swelling. 



\ 



^ Drink 



io8 A CoJkClion of Receipts 
A Drink for the EviL 

IP A K E of White Arch-angcl, turo Hand- 
^ fuls J of outlandifh iWect Fennel-feed 
tf ms^dy one Oiince ; of Liquorice, one Ounce: 
Boil thefe together in two Wine-quarts of 
Spring- Water ; ftop it clofe, till half be con- 
fom^d y when cold, ftrain it from the Ingre- 
dients ; add to the Liquor two Ounces of Da- 
mask Rofes : Let the Party drink of this 
Uiqaofy Spring and Fall, five, feven, ornine 
Days together, as you beft find it agrfe, 
ffrrce times in the Day, a quarter of a Pint, 
fiift an4 \d&y atid at four in the Afternoon^ 

A Drink for the King's- Evil, and 

Gancer» 

TAKE.Guaiacum, one Ounce; Saffafras, 
Sarfaparilla, iharprpointed Dock, and 
Daify-RQOts, of each half an Ounce ; Arch- 
angel Flowers, and Millepedes, of each two 
large Spoonfuls ; Ground-Ivy, and Herb- 
Robert, of each one Handful : Bruifc and 
fiured ait thefe Ingredients, and put them to 
ftcep one Night in three Pints of good clear 
new Ate ; ftrain it, and drink no other 
Drink for fix Weeks, Spring and Fall. . You 
may do a larger Quantity at a time, for Man 
or Womaa ; but you muft not infufe too 
inach at a time, becaufe the Herbs are apt 

to 



in Phyfick and Surgery* i o^ 

lo change it. At the fame time, if the Swel- 
lings arc painful, anoint with ^uke vfRm^ 
prepared as follows. 

An Omtment for the Swellings In ib* 

KingVEvil. 

nPAKE two Spoonfuls of Juke of Rue, 
•*- as much Sallad-Oil, beat them well to- 
gether ; then fct it over the Fire, and let k 
boil flowly half an Hour j add two Ounces 
of Bees- wax, let it boila little, with this : 
Pour it out, and keep it clofe covered 'Tis 
an incomparable Ointment to ufc all the 
Time you take the Diet-drink. 

A Milk* Water for Cancer or KingV 
Evil, for thofe that cannot drink am 
Infujion.. 

np A K E Roots of Daifics, Burdock, 
-^ Guaiacum,Saflafras,Sarlaparil!a, China, 
Torrnentil, and Hounds- toqgu^, each two 
Ounces ; Celendinc, Yarrow, Plantain, H^rb ' 
Robert, Agrimony, Speedwcl, Ground-Ivy^' 
and Cinqucfoil, of each a large Handful j 
Arch-angel-flowers^ one Pint ; Sweet-fcnncl 
and Coriandcr-leeds, of each one Ounce ; 
Shred and bruife all, and put them to a 
Gallon of Milk : Draw off as much as runs 
good, and drink daily a quarter of a Pint 

every 



110 A ColkSiion of Receipts 

every four Hours : Into each Draught fqucezc 
the Juice of afmall Spoonful of Millepedes. 

An Ointment for the Evil, ov Rickets* 

np A K E Leaves of Ofmond^royal, St. 
-*- John*s-wort,' Woormwood, Centaury, 
White Hore-hound, Germander, Ground Pine, 
Golden-rod, Carduus, Southernwood, Camo- 
mile, Tanfy, Penny- royal, Sage, Mint, Rue, 
Lilies of the Valley, Angelica, Meadow-Saxi- 
frage, of each an Ounce \ fhred it fmall, and 
add, of Oil, one Quart j Deer-fuet, and Cla- 
ret, of each one Pint j Mace, one Ounce : 
Boil thefe till all the watry Part is confum'd : 
Strain it, and anoint the Belly dnd Joints 
with it all the Spring and Fall. This has 
done great Cures on Weakly Children. 

For a Strain. 

TJ U T the Arm or Leg into a Pail of cold 
^ Spring-water, and keep it there till the 
Water be warm j then take it out, and re- 
• peat it 'till it be well, which it will be with- 
out applyiqg any other Reaiedy. 






A Good 



in Phy fick and Surgery* 1 1 1 
A Good Powder fir Worms* 

npAKE an Ounce of Worm-feed, and half 
-^ an Ounce of Rhubarb, beat both to a 
fine Powder, and take a quartet of an Ounce 
of Powder of prepared Coral ; mix all three 
together,, and let the Child t^ke as much of 
this as will lie on a Shilling, for three Morn- 
ings together, drinking a Glafs of fmall warm 
Ale aft^r each Dole. . » 

Another Powder /or the Worms. 

np AKE an Ounce of Sena, a qtiarter of an 
-*- Ouhcc of whole Worm-feed, a quarter 
of an Ounce of Tanfy-ftcd, a quarter of an 
Ounce of Anifced, a few Leaves of Wood- 
Betony ; dry all theft, and beat them to- 
gether very fine ; mix it into a Bolus with 
Syrup of Turnips. A Child of nine Years 
old aiay take a quarter of an Ounce of tlus 
Mixture ; fo, Icfs or more, for any other 
Age. Drink Water-gruel or PofTet-drink 
in the Working. 'Tis good for Men or Wo- 
men, as well as Children. 

For Worms. 

BRUISE a Pound of Wdrm-fced, and put 
it into a large Still full of Spear-mint, 
draw it off as long as it runs good : Let the 

Child 



112 A Colle6iim of Receipts 

Child drink three Spoonfuls of this nih^ 
Morii ings together. 

For the fam&. 

ONE Drop of Oil of Brimftone in a little 
warm Ale, for three Mornings together. 
Do not exceed one Drop for a Child j three 
are enough for a Man or Woman. 

For the fame. 

TO four Pounds of the Husks of Wall- 
nuts, put half a Pound of Worm-feed , 
and as much Flour of Brimftone : Draw it 
off in a cold Still, and let a Tea«-cup be 
taken every Morning for a Month. 'Tis an 
excellent Medicine for Wormsj or Jaundice^ 
and has done great Cures. 

For the fame. 



TKYi% one Handful of Spear-mirit, as 
much Plantain, as much Goats Rue, a 
Spoonful of Plantain-feeds : Stamp all toge- 
ther, and fquce^se out the Juice, and take' 
two Spoonfuls of it in a Glafs of Sack, threef 
Mornings together ^ 



II 



QT 



fit Phyiick atid Siatgctyl tij 
iu)r the Jatm 5 we^l jecommended^ 

IjrUSK, and dry ah Ounce of Sevitk 
^^ Orange-feeds, beat them to a fide PoW-^ 
' der, iand give as much as will lie on a Six<« 
pence, in a Spoonful of Sjrfiip of Peacti- , 
bloflbms \ at the lame time bihd the Leaves 
•of the Peach- tree to the Navel of the Child. 
If you ha vie hd Syrup of Peach-bloffoms, life 
SyrUp of Black Cherries* .^ 

ne Red Pbwder, /t?r fivers, Smalt 

Pox, or Surfeits. 

TAKE of Carduus, Rue, Red Sag^, Li*^ 
lies of thi Valley, Tormentil, Pimper- 
nel, Dragon, Betony, Angelica, Scabious, 
jSpeedwel, of each one Handful ; Virginia;- 
Snakc-weed, one Handful j Wormwood, half 
a Handful ; Agrimony, and Verum, of each 
a quarter of a Handful : Shred the Herbs very 
fmaill, and iftfufe them in two Quarts of 
White-wihe, in a Jug, which you muft 9iop 
very clofe, and fet nine Days in the Sun : 
Then ftrain the Wine -from the Herbs, and 
inhrie the iamc Quantity of frefh Herbs in 
tbe£mie Wine; letit ftahd, as before, nine 
•Days more : Then take a Pound of Bole-Ar-t 
'moniack finely powdtr'd j then put as moch 
of the Wine (after it is a fecond time prefs'd 
out) as the Powder will take up, and fct it 

H in 



I* « 



f 14 A O^tteSiott of Rectij^i 

in the Sun to dry ; and as it dries up, put 
in more of the Wine, ftffriiig it two or 
t^»e times a Day^ 'till all the Wine fee 
dryM up in the Powder, fo as to be fit la 
worl^ like Pafte :. Then put to it (me Ouatse 
of X>iiAordiiim, and one Ounce <if Mtthri- 
date, half an Ounce of Cochinealy one Ounce 
of Powder of Red Coral^ one Ounce of pre- 
pared Saffiron, forty Grains of Be^feoar, one 
Ounce of Powder of Crabs-eyes^ one Ounce 
of burnt Harts-horn, and one Ounce of 
prepared Pearl : Mix thefe in ihc laft Wtt- 
ting, and work . them all together : Make 
them up in Balls, (when well mix^d) and 
4iry them in the 3un. Take Ibrty ot fifty 
Grains of this for a Dofe. Dridk Mace- Ale 
after it* 

-Of Gafcdgn Powder, a good Sort for 

the fame Ufes. 

^T'AKfi prepared Craibs-^es, Red Corals 
-*^ WWte Amber very finely pcMvderld, of 
each half an Ounce ; burnt Harts-^hom^ ha(f 
an Ounce \ one Ounce of Pearla very finely 
|)owder'd ; one Ounce of Oiiental Betsour ; 
of the Black Topa of Qrabs-cdawa fisbcly 
powder'd, fopr Ounces ; grind all tl^^fe «o 
a Marble Stone, 'till they ea^ A Gr^edlih Co^ 
lour ; then make it into' Balls with Jelly made 
of Engiyb Vip»8 Skin, whi^h fnay be saadc^ 
and wiU jcUy li^ Harts-lv>W* . > 

jlvery 



.» 



in Phyfick and Sucgeiy. 1 1 5* 

A wry good Pow<J«r for a Dizzinels vH 
the Head, and to preveitt A^6^\co 
tick Fits. 

TAKE the Seeds and iLootis of fingle Fi- 
ony, of each a like Quantity ; dry and 
beat them ieverally into a fine Powder j take 
the Weight in Nutmegs which you muft 
beat, and dry, and beat again ; mix fine- 
fifced Sugar, and take asr much as will lie on 
a Shilling every Morning for a ^nth con- 
flantly. 

A Powder to fiop the Hickiip in Mati^ 

Womany or Child. 

PUT as much Dill-feed, fiqcly powdcr'di 
as will lie on a Shilling, into two Spoon^ 
fuls of Syrup of Black Cherries, and take it 
prcfently, 

» 

An Excellent Powder /or Convulfion- 

Fits. 

np A K E two Drams of Piony-roots ; Mif- 
* ^ Ictoe of the Oak, one Dram 5 prepared 
Pearl, Whfte Amber prepared, and Coral 
prepared, of each half a Dram ; Bezoar, two 
Grains ; and five Leaveis of Gold ; make all 
thcfe into a very^fine Powder, and give as 

Ha much 



11^ A CqlkSiitm of Raceipfs 

much of it as will lie on a Three-pence, to 
;l Chilf] of ^jMonth olc, and proportionabte 
to a bigger j mix it up with a Spoonful of 
Black-dherry Water, which fweeten with the 
Syrup of Black Cherries : Take it three Days 
together, at every Change o^the Moon, to 
prevci?t Returns. 

« * ' • . 

'A Powder for Digcftioii, 

npAKE Ga:flingal, and Sctwal, of each one 
* Ounce ; ''Long-Pepper, Mace, and Nut- 
meg, of each two Ounces ; Anifeeds, Car- 
raway-fecds, Fennel-feeds, and Angelica- 
ikt^ -of -e^ch half an Ounce : Put to thefe, 
all finely powdered, the Weight in fine 
powder'd Sugar j take . as much as will lie 
on a Shilling, after every Meal ; and drink 
a Glals of Siftiple Carduus Water after it : 
This has done mighty Cures to weak depraved 
Stomachs. 

A ^refent Remedy for Convulfion-Flts. 

lL/|AJC]5;a Draifght of an equal Quantity , 
r ■ 9^ PAW>yi and Simple Black-cherry 
]V!/atcr 5 l^nd'vfor ajvlan put .thirty, for a 
if^omzn twjenty, for a Child five Drops ^ of 
Spirit of Har.^s-harn ; Prink this in or before 
a Fit. • ./ . j ' , ^ ' . 

Another 



ik#» * 



»» Phyfick tf»tf Surgery. viy 






Another for the fam 






TNFUSE Turnips in a Pot clbfe ftppp'4, 
"*• and fet thepa in a Kettle of Water, 'till 
they are tender Plough to fquteze ; then 
take the Liquor clear from them ; and take 
three Spoonfuls of it, in one Spoonful of rich 
Old Malaga ; It has cur'd the Falling-Sick- 
nefi in grown-up People, but is almoft inr 
fallible for Children. . 

ji Syrup for Convulnqn-Fjts. 

I^AKE one Pint of fmall Black-cherry 
; Water, two Pounds of Black Cherries ^ 
bruife them, Stones and all, in a Mortar j 
pUjt thefe with the Water into, a Jug, with 
two Blades of Mace, and fcur Tops of Spear- 
mint ; ftop the Jug clofe,' and fet it into a 
Kettle of Water ; let it fimmer three Hours 
over the Fire j then ilrain ft oij, aiid let it 
be boird to a Syrup, with a full Pound and 
half of IJjbm Sugar, to each Pint of tfcidt 
iLiquor. 

For ConyuliionSy or Vertigo. . 

- '• 

TAKE one Ounce of Juniper- Berries • 
two Ounces of frclh Seville Orange-peel ; 
Male-Piony Roots, three Ounces j Peacocks 
Dung, fix Ounces J Sugar-candy, half a Pound : 
Infuie thcfe in two Quarts of Rhcnifh, for 
- V^ H 3 twenty •» 



■•l^ 



twenty*four HourSi in hot Afhcs ; then lee 
it fettle ; aod^tl^^ twp Sppod&ib of this in a 
Glais of Aqgelica- water/ It has done gieac 
Cures. 

V 

J Strong Milk- Water. 

TAKE Mint/ Sage, and Balm, of each 
two good Handfuls ; Rue, CarduuSp 
"Wormwood, and Meadow-fweet, of each 
one Handful ; chop thefe Herbs together ; 
and put ihem, with four Quarts of New 
Milk, and a whole Nutmeg flic'd, into a 
Copper Lii^beck ; from this Quantity you 
may draw iwo Quarts, if you fcpep an even 
^w Fire, 'till that Quantity is drawn off : 
Wbeq you have drawn off what you defigo, 
mix it all together, for the Ufe of any Fever- 
iih or Confumptive Perfon. 

f% Baricy Cinnamon^ Waters 

.pUT two Pounds pf Pearl Barley, into 
'*' four Quarts of Spring- Water ; dra^y it 
off in a cold Still, as lojng as it runs fweet.; 
infufe in it half a Pound of Cinnamon, and 
a Quart of Canary : Sweeteq it, and drink 
a Draught at any time, in a Fever and 
Loolenefi. 



Wall- 






^ 



m jPbyfick and Suigery; *"^*p-r 

« 

/^ ATHER a hrgc f^antity of Green 
^^ Wallnute^ ia the Segoin^ ^f J/zw j 
l^eak them ia a Mc^r,, «i»d dtiHltkiaxi inr^a 
^old Sail ; l^eep thk WaCi^* by ttfel^ a»d at 
MidTviyaaimef do the liJkse, keeping tbk WnixSi 
tiy itielf a)& ; about a Fort«igl^ aflec Mid>^ 
fummer do tbe: liXe ; and^^agpamaFoitiit^l: 
after that; then put all the f9mS6nBidS 
Water together, and diftiL it off ; Icecp ifi 
dole for U& : jjt3 Jf^rS^iffS^ ^iX6: many ; 'tis 
good in Gonfumptions and Surfeiti j drank 
with Wine in a Morning;^ 'tis good for a 
Palfcy ; a Beetle or two in a Veffel of decay 14 
Wine, revive it ; it's good to wafli the Eyc$ 
and Temples, I have not met with any 
Simple Water £o well recommended, oi by 
a Pcrlbh of more Experience. * 

j4 very good Snail- Water. 

TAKE ^Pcck of Snails elean wip'd,* 
crack them, and put them into a Gallon 
of Milk, with a Handful of Balm, as much 
Mint, and unfet HyfTop, half a Pound of 
Dates, as many Figs, and one Pound of 
Raifins of the Sun j diflil all together, and 
let it be the conftant Drink in a Confumpti6n* 

H 4 . Agoo^ 



i2«o ACoilU^'t(m cf Receipts 

A good Milk-Water for a Surfeit, or 

Worms. 

npAKE of Rue^ Wormwood, Garduus, 
>* " and Mint j each three Handfuls j cut 
Che iHerbsy and fteep them all Night iii two 
Quarts of Milk ; diftil it off next Morning 
ifi 'a cold Still; from this Quantity draw 
three Pintb j thign diftil this Water over again^ 
with the fame Quantity of Milk and Herbs ; 
fweet^i it to your Tafte, if for Children j 

but for grown People, 'tis heft alone. 

. • ■' • 

» ' •• • 

•J^rowf Ewer-berry Water. 

TAKE i l^ufhel of Eldcr-bcrrics, and 
put to them a Quart of Ale-yeaft ; let 
them ftand nine or ten Days, ftirving it two 
or three times a Day, and then diftil it |q a 
Limbeck : 'Tis a very good Cordial in any 
lllnefi. - ' 

4 

A Cordial Mint- Water. 

TAKE one Pound of Mint, ftripp'd froni 
the Stalks, and gathcrM the Day be- 
fore you weigh it ; a quarter of a Pound of 
Liquorice, thin flic'd j one Ounce of Ani- 
fecds ; one Ounce of Carra way-feeds j oqe 
Pound of Raifins of the Sun fton'd : Steep 
ihcfe together, in a Gallon of good ftrong 

' Claret; 



' 



r 

I. 



in Phyfick and SMxgtty. 1 1 r 

Claret; diftil it ofFin a Limbeck i or cold St ill; 
if you don't like it fo hot and ftrong, let it 
drop on a little fine Sugar, chro' a Bag o( ^ 
3afl&on. 

A good Milk- Water. 

TAKE one Pound of Carduus, half a 
Found erf Wormwood, Spear-mint, 
Balm flired a little ; put them into an ordi- 
nary Still, with a Gallon of Milk ; and diftil 
it off leifurely : 'Tis good in any Thirft. 

Another Milk- Water. 

/^ A RDU US, and Wormwood, of each 
^^ one Handful ; Spear-mint, two Hand- 
fuls : Pick and cut the Herbs, and pour upon 
them a Pint of Sack ; let them Hand all Night, 
and next Day put them into a cold Still, with 
a Gallon of New Milk, or New Whey cla- 
rify'd : Draw off while it runs good. 

A ntoft excellent Drink for the King'5- 

Evil in the Eyes. 

. nr A K E Sage, Celendine, Yarrow, Beto- 
^ ny, three-leav'd Grafs, Cinquefoile, 
Daify*joots and Leaves, of each a Handful ; 
Honey^fuckles, and Ground-Ivy, the fame 
Quantity: Pick, walh, dry, and bruife them, 
9nd put to them a Quart of good White- wint, 

or 



^ 



iz2 A CoiU^hm (f Retitpu 

m Bccf ; ftecp them two }%ht3 and Days ; 
prcis the Herbs out^ ami drink four Spootv ^ 

• fills, MomiDg and Night ; juft as you drink ^^ 
it, fqueeze in the Juice of fifty Millepedes, 
£reih bruised. 

A good^ Ccrc-CIoth. 

nn AKE one Pint of Oil of Olives ; eight 
^ Ounces of Red Lead ; Virgins-wax, 
Ibar Ounces ; of Ointment of Populton, Oil 
of Rofes, a^d Oil of Camomile, of eaqh one 
Ounce J fct the Pint -of Oil on the Fire, and 
melt the Wax in it ; then put in the Popu- 
lion, and other' Oils ; when all is melted, 
put in the Red Lead, ftir alt well together, 
and let them boil 'till they are black j then 
dip in your Cloth. 

An Incamparahk Salve far th Eyes. 

nPAKE two Ounces of j)l:/^j^ Butter, one 
•*" Ounce of Virgins-wax, half an Ounce 
of Carophire, one Ounce of Powder of Tutty ; 
you muft firft put your Wax and Camphire, 
into a Silver Porringer, and let both melt on 
a gentle flow Fire together, conftantly ftir- 
ring Yili they be diffolv'd j fome little time 
after, put in your May Butter, and di^blve it 
with a. large Spoonful of Red Roie Water ; 
keep it on the Fire, 'till all be incorporated ; 
then add the Powdet of Tutty^ and mix all 

very 



C0 Phyiick and Sargery« i %^ 

very well ; take k from the Air ; and when 
you lie to flecp, gently anoint your Eye-lid 
with it. 

The Stnallage-Ointment. 

» 

TAKE a Handful of Smallage^ as ipuch 
Mallows, and as much Elder ; pick 
and flired all imaU ; put them into a Skillet, ^ 
with a Pound of Mutton-iiict ihred fmall ; let 
all boil together : Strain it, and keep it to 
anoint any Swelling* 

\4 very good Plaifter for a Stomach fir^ 

with Coughing. 

TAKE of Burgundy>-Pitcb, Rofin, and 
Bee8*wax, of each one Ounce ; melt 
theie tc^ether : Then take three quarters of^ . 
an Ounce of coarfe Turpentine, and half aa 
Ounce of Oil of Mace ; melt thefe with the 
other, and keep it for Ufc : When you 
have Occafion, fpread it oh Sheeps-leather, 
prickM full of Holes ^ and when you lay it 
on, grate fottie Nutmeg oyer it. 

To give certain Eafe in the Tooth-ach. 

• 

nPAKE French Flies, Mithridate, and a 

-■• few Drops of Vinegar j beat this to ai 

Pafte, and lay a Plaifter on the Cheek-^ne, 

ot 



f ?4 ^ CoKedion of Receipts 

or behind the Ear : 'Twill blifter, but rarely 
iaxXs to cure* , 

Plaifters for a F<iver. 

X3EAT two Handfuls of Rue, with as 
•*-' many Currants, 'till they are fine, and 
well riiix'd ; fpreadit on Cloths, and bind it 
to the Wrifts, arid Soles of the Feet : This 
draws from the -Head ; and, if laid on in 
time, does as mudi good as Fidgeons to the 
Feet, in Extremity. 

Ah\Omtment that is good for any Ach, 
or Swelling, in Man or Beajt. 

nrAKEofunfctHyffop, Goats-Rue, Ad- 
•*• der-fpear, Alehoof, Wormwood, Camo- 
mile, Ladies-mdntle, FlantainJI.HartSrtongue, 
JUdder-to^rheavcni Southernw^, Red-Sage, 
Agrimony, Bone-wort, Amber4eave8, Bay-i 
Jciayea, of each one Handful ;^j5ired iXhefe, 
and ftamp them together ; then mix^^^ 
them one Pound ind a half of Butter wi thorn 
Salt, and make it up in nine Balls, and let it 
He nine Days ; then boil it over the Fire 
gently; : When itiooks very green, ftrain it 
biF, and keep it for Ule. 

This Number of Days ahd Balls feems fii- 
perftitionp ^ind- vyhimfical ; but it has been fo 
l^ng appfov'd. in the FahiiJy from whence I 

had J 



in Phyfiiik and Sutgiry. 1*5 

had it, that I .cannot doubt of its Virtuie«) 
tW I fmile at the Preparation. > 

jin Ointment fcr a Burn. 

TAKE Houfc-lcefc, finooth plantain- 
leaves, and Green El^ler, of each one 
Pound ; ftamp them together fmall ; put to 
them a quarter of a Pint of Wine- Vinegar^ 
three Spoonfuls of Urine, and four Ounces 
of old Tallow Candle, with three Pints of 
Oil-Olive ; boil thcfe two or three Hours, 
ftirring thqm conftantly with a Stick : Then 
ftrain it thro' a new Canvas Strainer, and 
put it on the Fire again, with four Ouricci 
of Yellow Bees- wax flic'd thin j let it boil 
half an Hour this time, and pour it intb 
Pots. 'Twill keep many Years, if ty'd 
down with Bladders. When you ufe it, rub 
white Paper 'till 'tis foft j then fpread it 
over with the Ointment, and anoint the 
JBurn with the Ointment : Do it with a Fea- 
ther, and lay the Paper over it ^ Do this' 
Morning and Night, 'till 'tis quite well. 
'Twill skin the Wound, as well as take 
out the Fire ; therefore ^e lure to ufe 
nothing elfc : It will give Eafo in a quar- 
ter of an Hour. 'Tis a certain as well 
as a quick Cure, if the Vitals are not 
burn'd ; and is recommended oft the Exi 
pericnce*of a Perfbn of gpcat Worth and 
Chanty. A third Part of this Quantity 

will 



ti6 A Cdkdiott <f Receipts 

wiU laft many Years^ and may be made very 
cheap. 

jin Ointment, wbtch h a certain Cure 
for any Scabs, Pimpks, or Old In^ 

veterate Itch. 

TAKE a qi^rtcr of an Ounce of Red 
Precipitate, grind it on a Marble Stone, 
'till 'tis as fme as the Flower of Brimftone ; 
nux this with an Ounce of Flower of Brim- 
ftone, and work both up with three Ounces 
of Butter without Salt, as it comes iirom the 
Churn ; mix it very well, and anoint the 
f lace very thin with the Ointment. 'Tis 
not the Nature of it to check, but draw 
out the Diftemper ; and in a Week or tea 
Bays Confinement^ will make an abiblute 
Cure. 

I Ihould fay many things to recommend 
this, being &re of its Virtues ; but it«will 
not need that, to any body of Judgment* 

A wry good Poultis for a Sore Breaft, 
to Break tt, if there he Occajion 5 
and alfo Heal it, mthout any other 

. Salije^ 

i 

nPAKE of Smallage, Spear-mint, and 

-■^ Wormwood, each a good Handful ; 

bdl all thefc in Milk, and thicken it with 

O^t- 



; 



#» Pfayfick tf»i Surgery, 127 

Oatmeal : La^ it on, as hot as you can bear 
it, and repeaft it when hard or dry. 

JH Incomparhhle Ointment for 4 Strain^ 
Weakne^^ or Shrinking in the 
Nerv€s.. 

TAKE Sweet-marjoram, Penny-royal, 
Rofemary-tops, Camoniiie^fldfrers, La- 
Vender-flowcrs, Sage, and youi^ Bay-leaves^ 
of each a large Handful 9 a very large Nut- 
meg, and its Weight in Maoe y the Rind of 
four Lemons, ana as many Oranges : Stamp 
all very fine, and boil it in a quarter of a 
Pint of rich Malaga Wine, and tKilf a Fbund 
of unfalted Butter ; let it boil 'till the Wine 
ts wafted^ prefi: it thro' a fine Sieve, and 
keep it cool ibar IJic. Rub it Morning and 
Ni^t before the Fire, on the Fart affeded. 

The French King j Balfam. 

nr AKE Red Sage, and Rue, of each half 
* a Pound ; young Bay*leaves, acid 
Wormwood, of each a quarter of a Pound : 
St^p them unwafliM in a Mortar, with a 
Pound and a half of Sheeps-fuet, hot from 
the Sheep, 'till 'tis all of a Colour ; then add 
to it a Quart of Oil-Olive, and work that 
with the reft ; then put it into an £arthen 
Pot well fiopp'd, for eight Days J then boil it 

on 



128 A ColU0ion of Receipts 

on a foft Fire : Being ready to take offj ppnr 
in three Ounces of Oil of Spike ; let it boil 
a little together j then ft rain it, and keep it 
for Ufc : Take care it do not burn. It muft 
be made mM^j and will keep many Years : 
Rubb'd into the Small of the Back, it eafes 
the Stone : The Quantity of hf\i a Pea in 
the Ear, chaf 'd ip, and ftopp'd with black 
Wool, helps Pains there : It cures StiiSfnels 
or Strains, in Man or Beaft ; as alio Bruifes, 
Over-ftretching of Veins, Fcllony, Anguifh 
or Swelling of Wounds: It eafes the Cramp ; 
and is a good and ufeful Balfam in all 
Families. 



T 



For the Biting of a Mad Dog» 

A K E four Ounces of Rue, four Ounces 
oi London Treacle, four Spoonfuls of 
fcrap'd Pewter, . and four .Ounces of Garllck ; 
ftamp the Garlick, and boil all in a Pottle of 
fiale ftrong Ale \ ilrain this Prink ; let that 
which is thick, be apply 'd to the Wound j 
and take nine Spoonfuls of the clear, for nine 
Days together. 

^« Ointment for a Child that has the 

Rickets. 

np A K E one Ounce of Beef Marrow ; as 

4" much Oil of Lilies, and Tamarisk ^ 

Bees- wax, two Ounces j Gum Ammoniacum 

-^ ' ' diffolv'd 



m Phyfick ana Surgery, ^ijp 

diflblv'd in Vinegar, half ah Ounce; Juice of 
Briony-roots, Smallage, and Golden-rod, oJF 
each one Ounce ; let all boil, 'till the Juice of 
the Herbs be confum'd : With this' anoint the 
Belly of the. Child, riibbiog it in wjth^your 
warm Hand by the Fire, h*alf an Hour e^ery 
Night. 'Tis good, if the Belly is fwell'd 
^v it h Rickets, Worms, or Ague. 

Jn Ointtiient for the Back of a Weak 

Ricketty Child. 

piCK Snails clean out of thje Shells, and 
^ prick them full of Holes^ hang them up 
in a Cloth, and put a Balbn to catch what 
drops from t;hem j which you muft boil lip 
with Speracity, arid Blades of Mac6, of each 
one Ounce : Rub this Ointment along the 
Back-bone, round the Neck, Wrifts, and 
^ Ancles ; ufe this conftantly Night and Morn- 
ing, and chafe it in by the Fire : This, with 
the Drink that follows, has recovered many 
weak Children from Sicknefs, Lamenefs, and 
Deformity. * 

The Ricketty Drink. 

pUT an Ounce of Rhubarb, three hun- 
^ dred live Wood-lice, SafTafras, China, 
and Eringo-roots; of each three Ounces ; 
Roots of Ofmond-royal, two Ounces ; Rai- • 
fins of the Sun fton'd, two Ounces ; Harts-* 

I Tongue, 






130 J CoJle0ion <f Receipts 

Tongue, two HaQdfuU : Put thefe into fix 
Quarts of Small Al^, and drinli;. Spring and 
Fall, no other Dxinl^ i 'tis almoft inMible 
for weak Children. 

A tioolif^ Drink #0 a Fever or 

Pleuriiie. 

PUT an Ounce of Pearl-Barlty into three 
Pints of Water ; 0iift it twice ; beat half 
an Ounce of Almonds, with a Bit of Lemon*, 
peel, and a Spoonful or two of the Water ; 
when they are very fine, waflh the Almond*- 
Milk thro' your Sieve, with three Pints of 
Barley- Water ; in the laft boiling of this, 
you may put Melon-feeds and Pumpion- 
feeds, of each half an Ounce ; white Poppy^^ 
ieeds, half a Dram ; when theie are well 
boird, mix the Liquor with the Almonds, 
and firain all j fweeten it with Syrop of 
Lemons, for a Fever, or Syrup of Maiden* 
hair, and drink four Ounces every three or 
four Hours. 

Another Drink in a Fever* 

TAKE a little Sage, a little Balm, and 
a little Wood-lorrel ; wafh and dry 
them ; ilice a fmall Lemon (after you have 
par'd it clean from the white and bitter 
Part); to thefe Herbs. and flic'd Lemon, 
pour three Pints of boiling Water : Sweeten 

it 



1 



in Phy/ick and Suigery« i j t 

it to your Tafte^ aod drink as freely as you 
fdeafe. 

Another Drink. 

TO three Pints of Barley-water^ often 
ihtfted) put Hart8*horn, and Ivory« 
fiiayings, of each thiree Drams ; Qpick-grals- 
B^ootS) two Ounces ; Currants, one Ounce ; 
Red Rofe Water, half a Pint ; a very little 
Balm ; let it boil, and fweeten it with Syrup 
of Lemons or Violets. If the Patient is co£- 
tivc^ a few Drops of Spirit of Vitriol Icrve 
inftead of Lemons, whan that cannot be 
had : Of this you may drink freely in a Fe« 
ver or^Quinfie. 

Another Sort. 

/^LE AR Poffet-drinfc, pour'd on Wpod- 
^^ Ibrrcl only, is good, and allays Thirfk 
better than any other ; and Pippins flic'd into 
Milk, are as good, and better than aU, if you 
have a Lemon to flice in with them, being 
not iharp enough of themielves to turn it to 
a pleafant Clearnefs. 

A cold Caudle in a Fever. 

BO I L a Quart of Spring^-water ; let it 
ftand 'tin cold ^ then add the Yolk of one 
Egg, the Juice of ^ fmall Lemon, fix Spoon- 

l2 fuls 



i 3 1 A CoIkSliou of Receipts 

fuls of Sack, and Sugar to your Tafte ; Sy- 
rup of Lemons, one Ounce: If you have not 
this, frefli Lemons do as well : Brew all to- . 
gcchcr 'till well mix'd, then drink freely. ^ 
. Elder-flower Water cold ftill'd, is an ex- 
cellent Drink for Heat and Thirft ; quicken 
each Draught with five or, fix Drops of .Spirit 
of Vitriol, and fwceten it to your Tafte. 

Wallnut- Water, good in Agues or 

Fevers. 

TA K E a Pound of Rue, and a Pound of 
Green Wallnuts, before the Shell be 
hard, a Pound of good Figs ; bruifc all, and 
diftil it : Take a Draught before your Fft, 
and try to fweat after it. 

j4n excellent Snail- Water in a Gon- , 

fumption. 

np A KE a Peck of large Shell-Snails, lay' 
•*" them on a hot Hearth before the Fire ^ 
let them lie 'till they Ijave done Hifling and 
Spitting ; then wipe them firom the Froth, 
and break them in a Mortar ;* have a Quart 
of Earth- worms, flit, and fcour'd clean with 
Salt and Water ; beat them with tlje Snails j 
then take Angelica, Celendine, Wood-fbrrel, 
Agrimony, Bear-foot, Barberry-bark, Great 
Dock-roots, of each twoHandfuls; Rue half 
a Handful j Rofemary-flowers, one Quart ; 

half 



in Phyiick and Surgery. i ^ ^ 

halfa Pound of Harts-horn; Turmcrick, and 
Fenugreek, of each two Ounces ; half an 
Ounce of powder'd Saffron ; and three Ounces 
of Cloves frefti beat ; ihred thefe Ingredients, 
and infufe all in three Gallons of ftrong Ale, . 
for twelve Hours j then diftil it, and draw 
oflf what runs good ; and take three Spoon- 
fuls of this in a Glals of Sack or White- wine, 
an Hour before every Meal ; ufe moderate 
Exercife with it. ^Tis highly jecommended, 
and has been lis'd with conftant Succeis in 
Confumptions and Jaundice. 

A Poffet-Drink, to he taken before the 

Fit of an Ague. 

POUR a Gallon of clear Poflet-drink upon 
four large Handfuls of Angelica, Ihred 
fmalli let it infufe, 'till 'tis very ftrong • let 
the Perfon, if poffible, drink . all, that the 
Stomach may be perfectly clear ; and go into 
a warm Bed, as foon as the Vomit has done 
working : Cover yourfelf cMfe, and try to 
fweat. It has feldom fail'd, and is a fafo 
Vomit. 



A good Epidemick* Water. 

AKERue, Rofemary, Pimpernel, Ro- 
fa-Solis, Balm, Scordiura, Carduus, 
Dragon, Marigold-flowers and Leaves, Goats- 
Rue, Mint, and Angelica, of each, two 

1 3 Hand- 



T 



134 AColU^ion df Receipt s 

Handfuls ; take the Roots of Elecampane^ ' 
JPiony, Mafterwort, and Butter-bur, of each 
one Pound; Gentian, Tormentil, Scor^onera, 
and /^r^in/^ Snake-weed, ofeach four Ounces; ^ 
jSafiiron one Ounce : Iniiife aU thefe, when 
Hired, in two Quarts of White-wine, one 
Quart of Water, and one Quart of French 
Brandy diftUVd, and uie it in any malignant 
Diftemper. 

An admirable Poffct^Drink, in a Pleu* 
rifie, or Shortnefs of Breath. 

INFUSE two Ounces of Flax-feed in a 
Pint of clear Poflet-drink ; firft bruife the 
oceds.' Drink this Quantity at a Draught 
every Morning, and at Night, if very ilK^^ 

It has the fame Virtues with Linfeed Oil ; 
but is not {o hard to take. 

For an InflajQimatioxi in the Throat. 

TNFUSE one large Handful of Cipqucr 
* foile in a Quart of Water ; let it boil to a 
Pint i firain it, and fweeten it with Honey 
very fweet, and Iwallow two or three Spoon- 
fuls often. This, tha' a fimple Medicine^ 
has done great €ures, and may be rely'd on. 
The Herb is otherwifc call'd Fwe-^kav'd 
Grafs. 

For 



{ 

\ 



in Phyfick and Surgery, i } J 
For a Cough, andShonnck of Brcatlu 

TAKE eight Ounces of Colts-foot pick'd 
clean from the Stalks ; beat it to a per- 
fed Confctve, with four Ounces of Brown 
Sugar-candy, four Ounces of Raifins fton'd : 
When 'tis very fine, and well mix'd, add 
four Ounces of Confcrve of Rofes ; then add 
twenty Drops of Spirit of Sulphur, and teti 
Drops of SpiHt of Vitriol : Mix it well, and 
iake as much as a large Nutmeg, as often as 
you pleafe. I think the juice of the Colts^ 
foot, mix'd with tlie Sugar-candy, is better 
than the Leaves, without ftraining. 

A good Way to make Caudle. 

TO four full Quarts of Water, you may 
put a Pint of whole Oatmeal ^ let it 
boil very flow for i^ve or fix Hours at leaft j 
then ftrain it out, and put to two Quart) 
three large Blades of Mace, a full Pint and 
a half of White or Rheni(h-wine ; and make* 
it fweet to your Tafte : And juft as you 
take it off the Fire, flice in a Lemon, from • 
which all the White is cut, which is apj, 
by lying long, to make, it bitter ; juft the 
Yellow of the Peel may be put in. A little 
Salt does very well in Caudle, bjit is not 
often us'd* 



\ 



1 4 Av$ry 



13^ A CoJkSiion cf Receipts 
A ^vy good Purge in a Fever. 

TAKE S^na two Drams, Rhubarb one 
Dram, (BTamarinds two Drams ; boil 
thcfc in half a Pint of Water, 'till two Thirds 
be wafted ; to what remains, add half an 
Ounce of Cream of Tartar, fwccten'd with 
one Ounce of Syrup of Succory, or Syrup of 
llofes folutive ; ft rain and drink it at a 
Draught j in the Working, dfink clarify'd 
Whey, rather than Poffct-drink. 'Tis good 
to cool and th;n the Blood. 

An Incompardbh Drink in a 'thirjly 

Fever. 

N*Ounce and a half of Tamarinds, three 
Ounces of Currants, and two Ounces of 
ftonM Raifins, boiPd in three Pints of Water, 
Uill near one Third be confum*d j ftrain and 
^rinkthis, when you are coftive, 

A EJraught for a Confumption* 

TAK^ Mint, and Red-Rofe Water, of 
each two large Spoonfuls, Sugar-candy 
finely beat, one Ounce; warm thefe together 
with a little grated Nutmeg ; pour to it near 
half a Pint of Milk juft warm from the Cow ; 
drink. this twice a Day, for fix. Weeks, in the 
Spring. It has recovered many from Weak- 
jiefs, and faint Sweats. 



A 



, ^ 



1 • 



in Phyfick ^«^ Surgery. i 37 

jln excellent Eleduary for a Con- 

fumption. 

nPAKE Hore-hound, Harts-tongue, Li- 
-^ ver-wort, Maiden-hair, Agrimony, un- 
fet Hyflbp, Germander, and Colts-foot, of 
each one Handful ; boil them in a Gallon of 
Spring-water, 'rill half be confuni'd ; then 
take three Pounds of Live Honey, half an 
Ounce of Powder of Elecampane, and an 
Ounte of Powder iof Anifeed 5. lift them both 
thro' a Sieve ; boil thefc together, 'till it 
come to the Confiftence of an Eleftuary : Take 
the Quantity of a Nutmeg falling in the 
Morning, and faft an Hour after it : Take 
the like Quantity at Night, when you go to 
Bed. 

A Poppy- Water for Surfeits. 

BREW ten Gallons of ftrong Ale-wort 9 
when 'tis cool, work it with Yeaft, and 
add as many frelh Red Poppies as the Wort 
will conveniently wet, fo that you may ftir 
it daily ; let the Poppies infufe in this Wort 
three Days and Nights ; then draw it ofFia 
a Limbeck as quick as you can, 'till the 
whole is diftillM off; mix the fmall and 
ftrong together, and take a Glals at any 
time, with cr without Sugar, after a full or 
difguf:ing Meal. 'Tis not much ftronger 

than 



B 



t)S A CoUeSihn of Retetpts 

than a fimple Water, but has been the only 
Cordial of an infirm Lady/ who has us'd it 
ever fince Fifteen, and fhe is now Ninety- 
feTen. 1!hts of my own Knowledge. 

Another for a Surfdt. 

O I L a Handful of frefli or dry 'd Poppies 
in Ale, with an Ounce of Carraway- 
feeds bruis'd : Sweeten it, and drink a large 
Praught. If the Stomach is fb fick as to 
difcharge it, repeat it 'till it does fiay, and 
ileep on it. 

A Rich Surfeit Cordial- Water. 

TA K E.four Pounds of frelh Red Poppies, 
infufe them in four Quarts of Brandy ; 
add to it half a Found of Dates flic'd, half a 
Found of Figs flic'd, a Pound of Kaifins 
flon'd ; Carraway and Angelica*feeds bruis'd, 

^ of each one Ounce ; Mace, Cinnamon, 
Cloves, and Nutmeg, of . each a quarter of ^ 

-an Ounce ; Marigold-flowers, and Baflm, of 
each one Handful ; Sugar candy one Pound, 
hot Angelica and cold, of each one Pint : 
Steep all thcfe a Month, ftirring them every 
Day. If you have a convenient Place^ let it 
ftand in the Sun. 



in Phyfick and Surgery. 1 3 ^f 
A WboUfome Cordial. 

f 

TAKE one Found of "Gentian-roots 
flic'd, common Dock-roots flic'd, half a 
Pound ; Centaury, l)oth Flowers and Leares, 
of each half a Pound : Put thefe into a great 
Glais, with one Pound of Poppies; pour upon 
thefe Ingredients fix Quarts of White-wine ; 
let it fiand twenty-four Hours to infufe ; 
then draw it off in a Limbeck. 'Tis good 
and fafe in any Ulnels of the Stomach. 

For the Gout« 

I^AKE aConferve of Bucfc-bean,*^wrth 
^^ the Weight in Sugar-candy ; beat both 
fine, and take as much as a large Nutmeg, 
firft and laft ; and drink a Tea made of the 
fame Herb, every Morning and Afternoon, 
conftantly, for one whole Year. 

This alone, without any other Medicine, 
made a perfed Cure in a Perfbn that had 
been many Years moft grievoufly afflifted j 
and is effectual in the Scurvy y or Rheumatick 
Pains. Where the Patient i^ weak and very 
rcftlefs, 'tis beft to mix a third PartFema 
Treacle in the Confervc they take, when 
going to Reft. 



140 A CoUeSfion of IReceipH 
A Drink for the Gout. 

CAR SAP ARILLA,eight Ounces; Safla- 
^ fras, China, and Harts-horn Shavings, of 
each three Ounces ; Angelica-roots, three 
Ounces; Raifins, one Pound; and the Roots of 
Sweet- fmelling Flag, three Ounces ; of can- 
dy'd Eringo-root, half a PouncT: Hang thefe 
in fix Gallons of fmall Ale, when you tun it 
tip ; and as loon as 'tis a Fortnight old, drink 
of it conftantly* 

*Tis an incomparable Drink to fweeten 
the Blood, and corred thofe very fharp Hu- 
mours, that occafion that difmal tormenting 
Difiemper. 

For the Head-ach. 

DRY Rofemary before the Fire, 'till 'twill 
^ crumble to a very fine Powder ; one Pu- 
gil of Saffron ; and with the Powder of Rofe- 
mary and Saffron, make the Yolk of an Egg 
' into a ftiff Poulcis, and lay it as hot as you can 
endure it, to the Temples. 

For the Stone mid Gravel. 

nr AKE of Caffia newly drawn, one Ounce 
,* and a half ; choice Rhubarb in Powder, 
a Dram and a half; Cyprus Turpentine well 
w^afti'dj feven Drams ; IpicM Diatragacanth, 



one 



?n I^hyfick and ^ufgety. 141 

one Scruple ; Powder of Liquorice, half a 
Dram ; Mix it in a good Quantity of Syrup 
of Marfli-mallows : Take the Quantity of a 
Wallnut in a Morning falling : Drink a Draught 
of pl^n Ale Poffet-drink immediately after if : 
Then walk an Hour : And after that, drink a 
Pint (ifyourStomach will bear it) of White- 
wine Poffet, fwceten'd with Syrup of Marfli- 
mallows. 

N. B. This was the Prefcription of a 
learned Phyfician j and has been long kept as 
a choice Secret in a very charitable Family, 
who have made numberlefi Experiments of it 
with miraculous Succels, even to diflblve the 
S:one. 

Jnother for Stoppage of Water, in 

the Scone. 

AKE four Spoonfuls of the Juice of 
Parfley in a Pint of White- wine j fweeten 
it with Syrup of Marfti-mallows, and (if 
5'ou can) drink, the whole Quantity at a 
Draught. 

For the Stone. 

MA K E a very ftrorig Decodion of Mal- 
lows, thus; put in half a Peck of Leaves' 
into one Gallon of Water j let it boil to near 
half the Quantity : Then ftrain it, and add 
half as many Leaves, and boil it again : 

Then 



T 



14^ A CoIIe^ion (f Receipts 

Then add Liquorice, fton'd Raifinv, and Sy- 
rup of Marfli-mallows, of each two Ounces ; 
and drink continually of this Drink : It has 
given Eafe to many in Extremity. Obferve 
to ftrain it clean, and let it fettle from the 
Thick, before you pour it ofE 

For the Stone. 

TA K E of good White* wine one Pint ; 
Fennel,' and Parfley- water, of each one 
Pint : Into this Mixture put one Ounce of 
live Wood*lice, well cleansed, one Lemon 
flic'd thin, and two .Ounces of Syrap of 
Marfli-mallows : Put thefe into a Jug to in- 
fufe foY five or fix Days : Then ftrain it out^ 
and let the Patient take four Ounces at a 
time, twice a Day. 

For the Scurvy. 

TAKE Scurvy-grafi, Gardcn-Tanfey, 
Wood-ibrrcl, and Golden-rod, of each 
one Handful ; beat thefe Herbs to a Conferve, 
with their Weight in Sugar ; add to them an 
Ounce of Powder of Wake-Robin : Take as 
much Syrup of Oranges, a« will make this 
into an Ele&uary, of which take a Dram 
three times a Day, for fix Weeks together, 
in the Spring ; drinking after it the follow- 
ing Drink. 

Take 



iff PkyHck and Surgeiy. ij^f 

Take O^oi Tanfcy, Garden Scurvy- 
graisy of each fix Handfuk ; Buck-bean^ 
Watcr-creflcs, Brook-lime, and Wood-forrcl^ 
of each four Handfuls ; the Peel of fix Oraoges^ 
and one Ounce of Nutmegs bruis'd : lafiiie 
theie in two Gallons of new firong Ale* 
wort ; let it work together a Day and a 
Night ; then > diftil it ofi* in a cold Still a$ 
long as it runs good ^ mix the finally and 
drink a Wine^-Glais full after every Dofe of 
the EleSiuary. ^ 

This has been taken with great Succeis^ 
by People who have been much afiiided 
with Scurvy^PainSy and Spots. It has, by 
conftant taking, cur'd a BJbeumatifm. 

Far the fame. 

f\ N E Handfiil of Garden Tanfcy, as much 
^^ Sage, and twice as much Scurvy-grafe, 
fleep'd in tWo Quarts of White-wine, or ftroog 
Ale. Drink half a Pint of this, Morning 
and Night. 

For the fame. 

TNTO five Gallons of well-brcw'd fmall 
^ Ale, put in a Bag one large Handful of 
Fir-tree Tops cut imall^ two Handfuls of 
Scurvy-grais^ as much Water-crefles, one 
Pound of Burdock-root fcrapM and ilic'd, 

the 



144 -^ CoJIe{iion of Receipts 

the Juice and Rinds of twelve Seville Oranges; 
let thefe be put in while the Xle is work- 
ing ; when it has done, flop it down 'till 
*tis fine ; then drink of it for a Month, or 
fix Weeksi 

Ufe the fame for a Dropjy ; adding only a 
quarter of a Pound of Muftard-feed, and half 
a Pound of Horfe-radifli Root, 

J4n Excellent Purging Ale for a Dropfy. 

OENA, four Ounces ; SaflTafras, and Tar-^ 
•^ tar, of each two Ounces ; J|lop, and 
Liquorice, of each one Ounce j Rhubarb, 
Coriander, and Ariifeed, of each one Ounce ; 
Polypodium eight Ounces; Brocrm-afiies one 
Quart ; and one Ounce of Cloves ; put all in 
a Bag, with Ibmc little Weight to fink it : 
Take Scabious, and Agrimony, of each 
three Handfuls ; of the Roots of Danes- 
wort, one Handful ; Raifins of the Sun fl:onM, 
one Pound, with a. little Ginger : Put thefc 
Ingredients into fweet Ale-wort, wh^n you 
put in your Hops, and let all* boil together 
half an Hour ; then pour it Icalding hot on 
your Bag of Drugs : When 'tis cold enough, 
fct it to work with Yeaft : When it has done 
working, flop it up for twelve Days, or a 
Fortnight : Hang the Bag of Drugs in the 

Vcflcl. 



itt Phyfick^»^Sinrgery^ 14 j 

VefleL Drink a large Glais of this in the 
MSrning^ and at Four in the Afternoon, un- 
lefs you find it works toa much at firft ; 
if fb, leflen your Dole ; but take it daily^ 
'till- you have taken all. ^. 



<(% V* 



1 , . . ...... 

For a Dropfy. 

• 

TAKE Broom, and burn it by itfelf,, jii^ 
a clean Oven ; Ihift the Aflies from jAi^ 
Stalks and Coals that are not quite confum*<|^ 
a|nd put two full Pounds of thele Alhes ihtb 
^a t\v;o Quart Bottle; pour on Old Hock,^ 
'till the Bottle is up to the Neck ; take care, 
'tis not too full ; if it has riot Room to ^fer- 
ment, 'twill be apt to fplit the' Bottle : Di- 
geft it in hot Afties by the Fire, or in the 
Sun, and (hake it often ; when it has flood 
three or four Days, pour ofiF a Quart of the 
dicar f^ye : If k. is not perfcftly fine, decant 
agaAQ and again^ 'till it is fb ; fill up your* 
Bqttle again with Hock, and do as before^ 
'till all the Strength of the Alhes be out, 
Drink this firft, and at Four or Five in the. 
Af&ernoon ; continue it for ibme time, and 
'(will carry off* the Dropfical Humours :. 
"While you take it, let the Meat you eat be 
dry roafted ^ and your Drink, ftrong Ale 01 
Wine. 



K For; 



Hj$ a Colh^mcf RBceipti 



> 



For the Dropfy. 

MIX four Ounces of Syrup of Elder- 
berries^ with two Ounces of Oil of 
Turpentine ; incoiporate them^ well together ; 
9jiA tak;e one large Spoonful of this Mixture^ 
4ri}r and laft, for a Fortnight. 

^otey That Sea-bisket, and New RaifinSs 
(^ the Suo (if they can be had) eaten con- 
J^antly^ inftead of Suppers^ have cur'd thac 
|>iftempQr without Pbyfick ; efpecially if the. 
Par(y cajpi refrain from ihkall Liquors. 



Fat the Jaundice. 

CUT off the Top of a Sevii^ Orange^ aa^ 
take out^ as well as you can^ the mid- 
dle Core and Seeds, without the Juice ; fill 
the Vacancy with Saffion, and lay the Top 
oa again ; then roaft it carefully without' 
burnings and throw it into a Pint of White* 
viae : Drink a quarter of a Pint failing, 
tbt nine Days : It greatly fweetens and clears 
tllcJUood. 



^0 



in Phyfick anS Sufgery« iji^f^ 

To' Sweeten the Blood, in Scutvy; 
Jaundice, or any Vahi in the 
Limbs. 

t 

TAKE Scurvy.gnriS, Maidcta-bair, Wild 
Germander, Wood-lbrrclj Fumitorjr, 
of each half a Handful ; Wild Mercury ond 
Handful; Dattask-Rofes two Kandfuls ; put 
thcfe into two Quarts of clarify'd Whey j 
let all ftatld 'till 'tis f&s^lding hot, then ftraiii 
it off; and dririk half a Pint at a Draughty 
£>ur or five times in a Day, for a Mondi or 
five Weeks in the Spring. This is highly 
recommended in the Gout. 

A good Bitter Wi^^e. 

np AKE two Quarts of ftrong White- wine^ 
•* infufe in it one Drani of Rhubarb, a 
i)ram and half of Gentian Root, Roman 
Wormwood, Tops of Carduus, Centaury, 
Camomile-flowefs, of each three Drams^ 
Yellow Peel of Oranges, half an Ounce, 
Nutmegs, Mace, and Cloves, of each one 
Dram ; infuie all chefe two Days and Nights; 
ftrain it, and drink a Glais fafUng, and an 
Hour bcfbreDinner and Supper : Add Filings 
of Steel (if 'tis propcf) two Ounces. 



14$ A Colk^m of Receipts 

A ^leafant and Safe Medicine, for the 

Yellow Jaundice. 

ROAST a large Lemon, 'till, 'tis foft ; 
cake care it do ' not break ; cut it and 
Iqueeze it (while 'tis very hot) upon a 
Dtim of Turmerick flicM or grated, and 
half a Dram of Saffron ; pour upon thcfe In- 
gredients a Pint of good White- wine j let 
all infufe one Night ; atod in the Morning 
fafting, take a quarter of a Pint of this Liquor ; 
fweeten it to your Tafte with Sugar-candy ;• 
or if your Stomach can bear . it, the Sugars- 
candy may be omitted ; repeat this for four 
Mornings, or l9nger» if you have Occalion. 
^ 'Tis for the moil part a certain Cure. 

"For the Stone. 

WASH,' dry, and very finely powder, 
the inner Skin of Pidgeons Gizzards : 
Take as much as will lie on a Shilling, of this* 
Powder, in a Glaft of White-wine. This 
docs very often give Eafe in racking Pain. 

Another for the Stone. 

T^RY and powder the Haw-thorh Ber- 
'*-^ ries, and take as much as will lie on a 
Shilling, in a Glals ofAVhite-wine: This has 
done great Cures, by conftant taking; it 

may 






in Phyfick and Surgef y. i 4cji 

may be taken in Ale, if you cannot havic 
Wine : The Virtue is i^ the Berry, and has 
been experienced, to the great Eaie of many 
poor People, in Ale as well as Wine ; but 
the laft is beft ; and a Poffet-Drinfc turn'd 
with White- wine, is a proper Vehicle for it j 
taking it. failing, or when in Pain. 

Jn excellent Drink in the Gout or 

Rheumatifm. 

4 

TA K E fix Ounces of Saflafras. ; Sarfa- 
pariUa, and China, of each four Ounces; 
Liquorice and Anifteds, of each two Ounces ; 
Sage of Virtue, half a Handful ; Candy'd 
Eringo-root, two Ounces ; Raifins and Figs, 
of each half a Pound : Put all thefe into four 
Quarts of Water; let it infufe oyer a flow 
Fire, ^till ope third is wafted. §train and 
drink it coqftahtly, to iWeefen the Blood. 

A good Mouth- Water, to he uid 2)a$ly 

in the Scurvy, 

TAKE half a Handful of Red-Rofe- 
Leaves, three Ounces of Black^thom^ 
Bark flic'd, a Bit of AUom ; boil thefe in a 
Pint of Claret,, and as much Water, 'till « 
third is wafted .; then pyt in the Peel of one 
&v/7^ Orange, a Handful of Scuryy-grais, anij 
as much Powder'd Myrrh as will lie on a 
Shilling i ftir all together^ and let it boil up ; 

K 3 then 



/ 



\ 



^50 A CoiU&ion of Rece^ts 

then firaia it, and hold a Mouthful as long 
9» you can, once or twice a Day : It fattens 
Ipofe Teeth, and mafces the Gums grow 1^ 
to f he Teeth. 

A Gargle for a Sore Throat. 

TAKE Plantain, and Red Rofc Water, 
of each half a Pint ; the Whites of 
Eggs beat into Water, four Spoonfuls ; Juice 
ofHoufe-leek, frefiibeat^ four Spoonfuls ; as 
much of the Water in which Jews-Ears have 
l>een boil'd j twenty Drops of Spirit of Vi- 
trioj, and an Ounce of Honey of Roies. 

Vor a Canker in the Mou(h or Gums. 

Ik^IX forty Drops of Spirit of Vitriol, in 
^^ an Ounce of Honey of Rof^s ; keep 
the fore Place always moift with this Mix- 
ture * and 'tis a certain Cure. 

A Gargle in the Palfey. 

PU T a large Spoonful of Muftard-ieed, 
t)ruis'd, into a Pint of White- wine; drop 
in Spirit of Vitripl, to make it Iharp 5 and 
wafli your Mouth often in a Day ; hold it 
as long at the Root of your Tongue, as you 
can endure it at a time. 

jinother 



in Pfayfick and Sut^tryl 1 1 V 
Another Gargle in the Palfey. 

!pOUR a Quart of boiling W^tcr upon )i 
* very large Handful of Lavender-floweis^ 
let it infufe in the Afhes, 'till 'tis very firong^ 
ftrain it, and add a Spoonful of Vinegar, a 
Spoonful of Hungary-Water, and a Spoobfiil 
of Honey. Warn your Mouth often with 
this : It is a very good Gargle» 

A conftant Daily Wafli for your Teeth. 

TO one Quart of Claret put an Ounce of 
Bole- Armoniack,half an Ounce of Myrrh^ 
one Dram of Allom, Salt of Vitriol, tea 
Grains, an Ounce of Hungary- Water, and 
two Ounces of Honey of Rofes ; when tht& 
have flood in a warm Sun, or near the Fire 
for three Days, iet it by to fettle ; and pour a 
Spoonful of it into a Tea^cup pf Water, with 
which waih your Teeth : It prefervcs them 
found, and makes them white. 

flo clean ^erf jfw*/ Spotted Teeth. 

|i)f AK£ a Skewer very fharp at one 
^^ End, over which wihd a Bit of fine 
Rag, tie It on very hard, and cut it very 
fharp, that it may be like a fine Pencil for 
Painting; dip this in Spirit of Salt^ take it 
out immediately, and dip it then into a Cup j 

K4 6f 



J 



1 



f ^ ^ A CoJl0ioH cf Receipts 

of fair Water, in which hold it for a Mo- 
ment J • with this Rag, fb carefully wet, rub 
your Teeth, and take care you do not touch 
your Lips or Gums ; have a Cup of cold 
Water ready to wafti your Mouth, that the 
Rag has not been dipp'd in : With this you 
may make any furr'd Teeth as white as Snow ; 
but you muft not ufe it often or carelefsly. 
When they are once thus clean, the Claret- 
wafh will prefcrvc them fo. 

J Mucilage in a Sore Throat. 

TAKE four Drams of Quince-leed, de- 
cod it in a quarter of a Pint of Rofe or 
Plantain- water, 'till 'tis a ftrong Jelly ; add 
a Spoonful of the White of an Egg beat to 
Water ; and fwccten it with Syrup of Mulr 
berries or Rasberrics* 

To Cure a Cough and Shortnefs of 

Breach. 

TAKE Elecampane-roots, and boil them 
very lender, and pulp^them fine thro' 
a Sieve ; take their Weight in the Pulp of 
coddled Pippins j^ if you have a Pound Weight 
of both togethfer,' boil it in a Pint and half of 
clarift'd ' HorieV, for half an Hour : then 
tak6 one Odnce (if Powder of Liquorice, and 
as much P6*^d^' of Aaifeeds j mix all well 
together, and tike a Dram Morning and 

^ ' Night, 



in Phy fick and Surgery.' i j j 

Night, and in the Afternoon : 'Tis an ex- 
cellent Medicine in an Afthma. 

Another for a Cough. 

ROAST a large Lemon rery carefully 
without burning ; when 'tis thorough 
hot, cut and fqucezc it into a Cup, upon 
thyec Ounces of Sugar-candy finely powdered j 
take a Spoonful whenever your Cough trou- 
bles you : 'Tis as good as 'tis pleafant. 

For the fame. 

TAKE two Ounces of Syrup of Poppies, 
as much Conferve of Red Rofes j mix 
and take one Spoonful for three Nights, when 
going to Reft, 

§ 

For the fame, mth a Hoarfcncfs. 

SYRUP .of Jujubes and Althea, of each 
two Ounces, Lohoch Sanans one Ounce; 
Saffron and Water-flag powder'd, of each a 
Scruple : Lick it off a Liquorice-ftich^ when 
you cough. 



For 



I 

ff4 JCcltte^m cf Receipts 

For a Hoaifcncfs. 

TAKE every Night, gobgCoReflr, half 
a Pint of Mum, as warm as you can 
idrink it at a X>raught, for three Nights to- 
gether. 

For a Hooping-Goi^, very good. 

TAKE a Quart of Spring-water, put to 
it a large Handful of Chin-cup that 
grow upon Mofi, a large Handful of unlet 
Hyflbp ; boil it to a Pint ; ftrain it off, and 
fweetcn it with Sugar-candy. Let the Child, 
w oft as it coughs, take two Spoonfuls at a 
time. 

For a Cough. 

MAKE a ftrong Tea of Ale-hoof, fwccten 
it with Sugar-candy, pour, this upon a 
white Toaft, well rubb'd with Nutmeg, and 
drink it firft and laft. 

For a Cohfumptivc Cough. 

TAKE half a Pound of double-refin'd 
Sugar finely beat and fifted, wet this 
with Orange-flower Water, and boil it up to 
a Candy-height ; then ftir in an Ounce of 
CafHa-Earth finely powder'd. If you love 
3 Per- 






in Phyfick and Surgery. 15 j 

Perfume, a Grain of Amber-greafe docs well ; ® 

fdrop it in little Cakes on a Maxarinc that 
lias been buttered and wip'd. 

This has cur'd^^hofc that have Ipit Blood* 

A very good Peroral Drink for the 

fame. 

TpAKE Quitch-grafs-roots, two Ounces, 
^ Eringo-roots one Ounce, Loris two 
Drams, Harts-horn one Ounce, R aifins fton'd 
two Ounces, fix Figs, one Spoonful of Pearl- 
Bailey, Colts-foot and Sage ofjerufalem, of 
each one Handful ; boil thefe in three Pints 
of Water, 'till a third Part is wafted ; ftrain it, 
and diflblve therein two Drams of Sal-pru- 
nclla, and one Ounce of Syrup of Vioiet|j 
Drink a quarter of a Pint often, when you 
cough, or are dry. 

Pills for Shortnefs of Breach. 

TAKE a Quarter of an Ounce of Powder 
of Elecampane-root, half an Ounce of 
Powder of Liquorice, as much Flower of 
Brimftone, and Powder of Anifeed, and two 
Ounce* of Sugar-candy powder'd ; make afl 
into Pills with a fufficient Quantity, of Tar : 
Take four large Pills when going to Reft. 
This is an incomparable Medicine for ah 

* 

Jnother 



\f6 A Collect on of Receipts 
Another for the fame. 

HALF a Pint of the Jiijcc of Stinging 
Nettles ; boil, and fcum it, ^nd mix 
it up with a^ much clarify'd Honey : Take a 
Spoonful firft and laft. It has done mighty 
Cures* 

For an Afthma. 

TAKE Hyffop- water, and Poppy- water, 
of each fire Ounces : Oxymel of Squils 
three Ounces, Syrup of Maiden-hair one 
» Ounce : Take one Spoonful, when you find 
any DiflSiculty of Breathing. 

A good Drink in a Confumption. 

TAKE of St. John V wort, the Great 
Daify-flowers (caird Oxreyes) and 
Scabious, of each two Handfuls ; boil thefe 
in a Gallon of Spring- water, 'till half be 
wafted ; then ftrain it, and fwcetcn it with 
clarify'd Honey to your Tafte : Take a quar- 
ter of a Pint of this in half a Pint of New 
Milk; make your Liquor juft fo warm ; and 
take it in a Morning, and at Four in the 
Afternoon. 

This Drhik is highly recommended, and 
that too upon Ipng Experience. 

^Pow-- 

• ^ >• 1*". 



in Phyfick and Surgery. 1 57] 
A Powder for a Confamption. 

nTAKE twelve Dozen pf the fmaflcffi 
•* ;Gfigs you can get, wipe them very 
clean ; bake them in a well-glaz'd Pan aU 
Night 9 fet it into the Oven again.^ 'till theyt 
are dry enough to powder ; .then make theni 
into ,a very fine Ppwdcr, and take as much ^ 
will He on a Half-Crown,; th^reeitimcs a Day/ 
drinking with it a Glafs of Old Malaga, or 
Canary.^ . , \, 

'Tis reftorative, and well approved by 
many who have try*d it with Succefi. 

For Sweating in the Night, in a ^ 

Confamption. 

DR 1 N K a Glafs of Tent, or Old Malaga,' 
with a Toaft, every Morning early, 
and fleep an Hour after it« 

This is good for Confumptive Perlbns, or 
fuch as are weak, in recovering a long Sick- 
tiels. 

For a Shortnefs of Breath. 

TAKE Flower of Brimftbne, and EIc- 
campanc-r.oot finely powdered, of each 
an equal Quantity ; mix this into an Elcftuary 
with clarify'd Honey, and take it whenever 
you cough, or find it difficult to breathe. 

For 



i}% A CotteBkn cf RficeipH 
Fat an Aflbma, IncowparM^ 

TAKE Juice of Hy flop, Juice of Ek- 
campane-root^ of each one Pound ; boil 
thcfe Co a Syrupy with double their Weight 
in Money or Sug^^candy : Take one Spoon- 
fiil of thtt Syrup, in two Spoonfuls of Hy ffop- 
water^ and one Spoon&l of compound Briony- 
Vittor : Take this three times a Day» 

For^ a Cough and Shortncfs of Brcjith. 

TAKE Elecampane-rootS) one Ounce; 
SafiQron, a quarter of an Ounce ^ Ground- 
Ivy and Hyflbp, of ea^h one Handful ; b^l 
this in two Quarta of Water, 'till 'tis above 
half confum'd ; ffarain it out, and fweeten it 
with Sugar-candy, and take three Spoonfuls 
often* 

y jhtother for the fame. 

CYRUP of Garlick two Spobnfuls, or. the 
^ Cloves of Garlick preferv'd ; either of 
them very good j but if the Breath be very 
bad, 'tis beft to lofe nine or ten Ounces of 
Blood, if the Patient can bear it, before you 
begin to take fo hot a Medicine. 



\Anofher 



I 

m Pkyiick and Sufgcr^. tf 9 
Another fot the fame. 



TAKE one Spoonful of L}nic«d-Oil new 
drawn, Firft iand Laft : This is goo4 
in a Pleurify, or any other Cough ^ aad may. 
be us'd fafely at any Age. 

Fwf a Chin-Cough. 

DR Y the Leaves of Box-Tree very, well^ 
and powder them finall ; and give the 
Child of this fine Powder, in all its Meat; 
sind Drink, that it can be difguisM in : *Tis 
excellent in that Diftcmpen 

An admrabk ElcAuairy for a Cough; 

TAKE Syrup of Hore-hound; Ground- 
Ivy, and White Poppies, of each one 
Ounce, Crabs-eyes, one Dram, and Sperma- 
ceti, half a Dram ; mix and beat thefe very fine, 
and take a little Spoonful, when your Cough. 
is troubleibme, and at going to Reft. 

For the Pleurify. 

TAKE Bfoom-tops, Dandelion, Red Fop- 
pies, and Hy (Top, ofeach twoHandfuls 
ihred; Flax-feed bruis'd, two Ounces; fom 
Ounces of frcfli Orange-peel^ ami nine large 

BaUs 



/ 



t^o A CcikSiion of Receipts 

Balls of freih Stone-horfe-Dung; to thefe In*- 
grcdicnts, put a Gallon of Milk, and diftil it 
in a cold ^ill : *Tis an incomparable Water, 
and may be drank freely of. If you think it 
too cold, add a Spoonful of Sack or White- 
vine, in every Glafi. 

Another. 

T^AKE a Poffct-Drink pretty clear, 
■^^-^ ' with fmafl Ale and White- wipe ; an|' 
to a Quart of that, put three Balls of Horfc- 
dting, and one Ounce of Angclica-feeds j let 
it infufe three Hours ; ftrain and drink of- 
ten, half a Pint at a time: This has the 
fame Virtue, and is fooner prepared ; but 'tis 
fo v?ry naiifeous, that many Stomachs can* 
not bear it.. .. ^^ 

Jin exceJknt Water for the Stone- . 
, Choliek. 

pUT four Pounds 9f Haw- berries bruis'd, 
* into four Quarts of ftrong White- wine ; 
let it fteep twenty-four Hours ; then draw 
off, in a cold Still, two Quarts of very ftrong ; 
and what runs after, keep by itfelf : A quat-^ 
tcr of a Pint of the Strongeft has given Eafe 
in very bad Fits at ohce taking ; but if it 
comes up, you muft repeat it, /till it doeai^ 
ftay* 

t JPor 



/ 



#» Phyfick an J Surgery. i6i 
For the Cholick. 

SLICE one Ounce of the very beft Rhu« 
barb you can get, into a Qjiart of Sack ; 
iet it infufe twelve Hours at leaft ; then drink 
four large Spoonfuls, and fill your Bottle up 
again : Drink this Quantity once a Day, for 
fix Weeks, or two Months, at leaft : When 
your Rhubarb has loft its Virtue, you muft 
put frefii. This has cur'd fome People, who 
could not find Eafe in Opiats, nor the Bath : 
It muft be conftantly continued, 'till the 
Bowels and Blood are ftrengthen'd : It has 
done fuch miraculous Cures, where ev^ 
Laudanum could not, that 'tis impojfible to 
praife it €o much as it deferves. 

I do therefore advife every Ferfon fo af« 
Aided, for their own fakes, to make the 
harmlefs Experiment. 

For the Cholick. 

TAKE a Quart of double-diftiird Am- 
feed-water ; infufe in it one Ounce of 
Hiera-picra j flop it very clofc, and keep ic 
near a Fire, where it muft ftand fbme Days ; 
fliake the Glafs twice every Day : Take three 
or four Spoonfuls of this in a Fit, when 'tis 
new ; leis will ferve after it has ftood a Year 
or two. 

For a Convulfive Cholick* 

TAKE Yellow tranfparent Amber, 
grofly powder'd } Ginger minc'd j mix, 

L and 



1^1 A Colk^lon (f keceipts 

and fill a Pipe ; fmoke three or four^ while 
in Pain, "and always going t6 Reft. 

Another for the Clrolick. 

BOl L four Spoonfuls of right good Irijh 
Uiquebaugh, in half a Pint of Ale, flice 
in a litilc Ginger, and fweeten Avith Syrup of 
Khubarb : This is a pretty certain Cure, and 
feldom faifs to give prefent Eale. 

For the Chdiick. 

TAKE the thin Peel that ccfmes oflF the 
ICernels of a ripe Wallnut, dry'd, and ' 
beat to Powder ; the thin Yellow Peel of 
Ofange poSvder'd j bf each a like Quantity : 
Mix it in a Cup of hot Ale, and drink it up^ 
A fmall Spoonful of the Powders, mix'd, is 
a Dole. 

For a Stitch in the Side. 

TAKE Powder of Angelica-feed, and a 
large Acorn dry'd and J)owder^d, of 
each a like Quantity ; drink after it a Glafs 
of ^lack Cherry Water. 

A "Poffet-Drink for a Cough. 

TPAKE one Handful of Hyffop, four 
Sprigs of Minth, as much Savoury and 
Angelica, one Handful of ftonM Rajfins, and 
twelve Figs j infufe all theft in three Pints 
of clear Poffet-driiik ; add, when flrain'd, 
one Ounce of Syrupof Maidch-hair, as much 
Syrup of Violets : jDrlnfc often. 



1 



• in PhyficK and Surgery. v6} 
To Cure Deafiiefs. 

TAKE clean fine Black Wool, and dip 
it in Civet, put it into the Ear j as it 
dries, which in a Day or two it will, dip jt 
again ^ and keep it moiftenM in the Ear for 
three Weeks or a Month. 

Another^ 

TA K E an equal Quantity of good Hun^ 
gary Water, and Oil of bitter Almonds j 
beat them together, and drop three Drops in 
the Ears, going to Bed ; flop them with 
Black Wool, and repeat this nine Nights at 
leaft. . 

Another for a Pain in the Ear. 

THE Juice of Mountain Sage, Oil of 
F^nel,-Oil 6f bitter Alm6nds, Oil of 
Olives ; take an equal Qu?mtity of each, and. 
mix thenf well together { drop into the pain'd 
Ear three Drops, for three Nights, 'Twill 
eaie and draw out any Impoftbume, if that 
be the Caufc. 

For a Pain in the Ear. 

^T^AKE half a Pint of Claret, a quarter/ 
"^ of a Pint of Wine- Vinegar ; put in Sage, 
Rue, and Rofemary ; let it boil up \ put it 
into a new Mug, and hold your Ear clofc, 
fi> that the Steam may be fure to go in : As 
it cools, heat it again and again ; and when 

La the 



1 64 A CoJkdion of Receipts 

the Strength is pretty well wafted, wrap 
your Head very wann, and go intp. Bedi. 

For a violent Cbolick Pain in the Side. 

MIX an equal Quantity of Spirit of La/- 
ycnder^ Spirit of Sal-Armoniack, and 
Hungary- water j rub it in with a very hot 
Hand, and lay a Flannel on as hot as yoii 
can bear it. Repeat this often. 

For a Blow, or Hurt in the Eye. 

TJEAT the Leaves of Eye-bright with a 
^ rotten Apple j lay it on the Eye as a 
Foultis : Repeat it as it grows dry. I think 
the Juice of the Eye-bright is beft. 

A ctrtain Remedy to take Fire out of 

a Burn. 

BE AT an Apple with SaDad Oil, 'till ^tis 
a Foultis pretty foft ; bind it on the Part ; 
and as it dries, lay on frefh. You muft be 
fure to pare, core, and beat your Apple well, 
ibr fear of breaking the Skin of the Burn : 
But if the Skin be off, there is not any thing 
in Nature fo fure to take out the Fire. 

Jn excellent Ointment for a Pain in the 

Side. 

EAT two Ounces of Cummin-feed very 
fine ; fift it, and put to it two Spoonfuls 
of Capon-greafc, and two Spoonfuls of Lin- 
feed Oil J make it hot over the Fire, and 

anoint 



B 



in Phyfick and Surgery. 16^ 

anoint the Side with it : Dip a Flannel in 
the Ointment, and lay it on as hot as you 
can endure it. 

For a Pkurify and Fever. 

AFTER Bleeding once or twice, as there - 
is Occafion, let the Patient take an Ounce 
of Linfeed Oil new drawn ; fweeten it with 
Syrup of Lemons $ fhake them together ^till 
they mix ; and let this Quantity be taken 
every four Hours : At going to Reft, let 
them take thirty Grains of Gafcoign Powder, 
with a compofing Draught. They muft for- 
bear Malt Drink, and take care they do not 
catch Cold. 

This has done great Cures, when taken in 
time, and wiQ prevent the Diilemper ^fiing 
upon the Lungs. 

/^(TT a Loofenefs/ 

TAK£^ two Drams of Ipecacuana ; dci- 
cod it in an equal Quantity of Claret 
and Water ; let it boil ipore than half in half 
away ; ftrain it, and add one Spoonful of 
Oil i give it in aClyftcr to the Party aflBiiaed. 
If the Patient is weak, or a Child, you muft 
infufe lefs of the Root ; two Drams being a 
full Qiiantity for a firong Man. • 

It has cur'd the moft violent Illneis of 
that Sort, and was recommended on the £x^ 
perience of a worthy and ingenious Phyllf* 
cian. 

L 3 ^^ 



t^^ A CoJMion of Receipti 

T'be heft Way of huruing Claret fir a 

Loofenefs. 

TAKE a large Quart Bottle, tbat will 
hold mojpe than a C^art of Wine i put 
to that Quantity half an Ounce of Cinnamon, 
font large Blades of M^e^ and a large Nut- 
meg flic'd ; put a Cork into the Bottle, to 
keep in the Steam ; but don't ftop it clofe 
or hard, for fear c^ breaking ; fet this Bottle 
of Wine and Spice into a Skellet of cold Wa« 
ter, and let it (immer 'till the Wine is a little 
wafted ; ^fweeten $t with Loaf-Sugar, and 
drink often, if the Patient have a cold decayed 
Stomach, and no Fever. 

For a Loofencis. 

TA K E an Ounce of Cinnamon, and as 
much Ginger ; llice both fmall, and 
Urcw it oii a Chafing-difh of Coals, over 
which let the Patient fit as long as the Fume 
lafts, 

For a Loofcncfs. 

^TPAKE three large Nutmegs, and the 
•*• Weight of them in Cinnamon ; grate 
and beat the Spice extremely fine ; make it 
into a moift Pafte with new-laid Eggs, dry 
them in little Cakes, in a Shovel, over a 
gentle Fire : Eat the Bignefs of a Half Crown, 
jirft and laft, and at four m the Afternoon. 

Jnother 






in Phyfick ^4 Surgoryr }6j 
Af^ber for a Lopfei^cls. 

TAKE ^tOsart of ncwMilWand ^t i^ 
on the Fire 'till j( boil ; then fcum it^ 
and let it boil ; and icun^ it again, as lon^ as 
any Scum rifes ;. when 'tis alnio^ cold, to 
the <:lear Milk, put two^penny-worth of 
Aqua-VitaB, and let it ft^nd : 'Twill jelly, 
and keep (in a cool VeJTpl aqd piacf ) t^yQ or 
three Day«. I^ l^as done gjf at Cures. 

Cionamon-Water, for a Loofenefs and 

Fcy?r. 

BO I L a Poqnd of Pearl-Barley, and fir 
Ounces of Plantain-feed, in G^ Quarts of 
Water J when both are tender, popr it upon 
eight Ounces of Cinnamon ; }et it infuse all 
Night, and nm Day dr^w it off in 9 cold ^ 
Still ; le& the Patients drink of this a$ p/tea 
as they pleafe : If they like it fwect, put in 
double-refin'd Sugar. 

For a Loofcnels and Gripes. 

MIX up twenty Grains of Rhubarb, three 
Drops of Oil of Cipnanjon, and three 
Drop$ of Qil of Juniper, in near a Draqi of 
good Fenice Treacle ; make it into a Bolus, 
and take it all over Night. Next Morning, 
in the working, drink warm PofTet-drink, in 
which Mallows have been infus'd. 

This has done gteat Cures, when the Di& 
temper has been very dangerous. 

L 4 jinother 



t 



^ 



I 



p 



i6Z A ColkSiion of Receipts 
Another for a Loofcncfs and Gripes. , 

NFUSE a Pound of Poppies, in half a 
Pint of Spirit of Wine ; take a large Spoon- 
ful of this Liquor, with fix Drops of Oil of 
Juniper, in a Glals of Black Cherry Water, 
fwecten'd with double-refin'd Sugar. 'Twill 
give Eafe in esttreme Pain and Torture. 

Nbfe^ You muft mix your Oil with the pow- 
dered Sugar, before you put it into the Liquor, 
or 'twill fwim on the Top, and not mix. 

For the fame. 

U T a large Spoonful of good Plantain-Iced 
into half a Pint of Spring- water ; boil it 
half away, and firain it out ; fweeten it with 
double-refin'd Sugar, and drink it all. 

It often cures at once ; but muft be re- 
peated, if there be Occafion. 

To help a Hot and Cofti ve Habit <?f Body. 

PRESERVE green Wallnuts, before the 
Shell is hard ; after they have lain a Day 
and a Night in Water, firft prick'd full of 
Holes ; boil and fliift the Water often, 'till 
they are tender ; ftick in each a Bit of can- 
dy'd Orange Peel, and take their Weight in 
a fwect Lisbon Sugar j boil them up, and 
take two, three, or four of thefe, when 
going to Reft. 

They are a gentle, wholefome, and certain 
Purge. 

Another. 



tj 



It 



) 



in Phy fick and Surgery.' 1 6g 
Another. 

DISTIL a Quantity of Wood-forrel 
Water in the Spring, and fweeten it 
with Syrup of Violets : An Ounce of Syrup 
to a quarter of a Pint of Witer, is a Dofe foir 
any body^ and may be fafely taken, even in 
a Fever, or Lying-in : A lefs Quantity for a 
Child. 

Another. 

ROASTED Apples, with Carraway- 
Comfits, eaten conftantly every Night, 
have been the Method of a Gentleman of 
four-fcore, who haft hardly ever taken other 
Phy fick, or omitted this, for fifty Years, and 
never felt the Gout, or Stone, or any other 
Diftemper incident to old Age. 

i 

Another. 

"DOIL a few Mallows in one Porringer of 
^ Water-gruel j fl:rain it out, and inftead 
of Salt, put in a Pugil of Cream of Tartar : 
Let this be your Morning's Draught. 

Another, 

/^NE Spoonful of Syrup ofPeach-BIoflbms^ 
^^ takeu in a'GIafs of the Water diftiird 
from the Leaves, or in vrhich the Leaves and 
Worm-feed have been decoded, is a moft . 
fafe and certain Medicine for the Worms in 
Children. 

AD- 



C»7P] 



V'^^ 



,^^> 



.-^; 



^ 



> 




ADDITIONS w Part I, 

■*■ ■ ■ ■ I I I Wi I |i ■ ■■ I , ' 

Jo make Catchup, that will keep good 

Twenty Tears. 

A K E a Gallon of ftrong ftalc Beer ; 
one Pound of Anchovies, walh'd, 
and clean'd from the Guts ; half an 
Ounce of Mace j half an Ounce of 
Cloves ; a quwter of an Ounce of Pepper ; 
three large Races of Ginger ; one Pound of 
Shallots J one Quart of flap Mulhrooms, well 
TubbM and pick'd : Boil all thefe over a flow 
Fire, 'till'tis half wafted ; then ftrain it thrq' 
a Flannel Ba|^, let it ftand 'till 'tis quite cold ; 
then bottle and ftop it very clofe. This is 
thought to exceed what is brought fro;n /«- 
4iia ; and muft be allowed the moft agreeable 
Rclifti, that can be given to Fife Sauce: One 
Spoonful to a Pint of melted Butter, gives 
Tafte and Colour, above all other Ingredients. 

Notty That the ftronger and ftaley the Beer 
is, the better the Catchup will be. 

To make Catchup of Muflirooms, 

TAKE a Stew-pan full of the large flap 
Muflirooms, and the Tips of |hofe you 

wipe 



jiddhionfto the Receipt Sy Sec. 1 7 1 

wipe for Pickling ; fet it on a flow Fire, 
with a Handful of Salt ; they will make a 
great deal of Liquor, which you muft ilrain^ 
and put to it a quarter of a Found of Shallots^ 
two Cloves of Garlick, fome Pepper, Ginger, 
Cloves, Mace, and a Bay-leaf j boil, and 
fcum it very well ; when 'tis quite cold, 
bottle, and flop it very clofe. 

Paris Pies. 

nPAKE a Capon, and parboil it a little ; 
■■" bone, and skin it; then fhred it extreme-' 
ly fine j ihred alfo as fmall, one Pound of 
Beef-fuet ; beat a Pound of blanch'd Almonds, 
with^ So much Sack, and Orange- flower Wa- 
ter, as will keep them from oiling j fealbn 
all with Nutmeg, Cloves, and Mace, a little 
Salt, and twice as much fine Sugar, as there 
is Spice and Salt j mix all very weH together, 
and make them into little puff-pafte Patties, 
to bake or fry : Before you clofe them, you 
muft lay candy'd Orange, Lemon, and Citron 
Peel, in thin Slices, with Bits of Marrow, 
and the Kernels of Piftachia Nuts. 

NotCy That large Chicken does as well as 
Capon, and is an cxad Qijantity for half the 
Suet and Almond. 

• A Stcake Florendinc. 

CUT a Neck of Mutton into Steakes, take 
off the Skin, and fome of the Fat at the 
thick End j fcafon it with Pepper and Salt ; 

put 



( 



/ 



/ 



17 i Additions to the Receipts 

pat into the Difli one Anchovy flircd fmaU^ 
a little Nutmeg ilic'd thin, and a little 
Thyme £bred fine ; lay in the Steakes, and 
a Pint of Oifters, fifty Balls of Forc'd-meat, 
half a Pint of Claret, and as much Water ; 
cover the Difii with a Puff-cruft, and bake 
It. 

Beef A'la-mode, to eat hat. 

^ AKE the Round of a Buttock of Beef 
-■• from the Undcr-fide, let it be about 
three Inches thick ; if you like it red, let it 
lie a Day and Night rubb'd over with Salt- 
petre ; when that is dope, t^ke off the Fat^ 
and chop it with P^rfly,. Thyme, Sweet- 
marjoram, and a little Onion, (if you like it) 
add to this Pepper,' Salt, Cloves, and Mace ; 
work it up in Form of Saufages ; then cut 
jfbme fat Bacon into Slips of the fame Thick- 
nefs, and cover it over with the Salt and 
Spice, without the Herbs ; cut the Beef into 
Holes, about two Inches diftant from each 
other, and quite thro' thd Beef j fluff into 
one the fpic'd Slips of Bacon, and into the 
other the ForcM-meat, 'till all are full 5 ftrew 
Salt all over it ; put it into your Stew-pan^ 
with half a Pound of Butter; fet it on a quick 
Fire, that it may be brown, and harden on the 
Outfide ; turn and flower it, that both Sifles 
may be alike ; then put half a Pint of Water 
to it, and cover it clofe ; put it over a jllow 
Fire, that it i^ay ftew Icifurely fcyen or eight 

Hours ; 



in Cookery, &c. 175 

Hours ; when it grows dry, add a Cup of 
Water or Gravy. The Liquor 'tis ftew'd in, 
if clear'd from Fat, and jihook up with Claret, 
is the Sauce to it ; to which you may add 
Mulhrooms, Sweetbreads, Artichoke-bottoms, 
or what you pleafe for Ornaments ; but the 
Gtavy and Claret are fufficient to make it as 
fayoury a Difli as can be eat, and 'tis ais good 
to flice cold as eat hot. ^ 

Pan-Puddings, to fry. 

TO a full Pint of Milk, yoii may put near 
three quarters of a Pound of Flburj fix 
Ounces of Beef-fuct, flircd very fine, and 
lifted thro^ a Cullande'r ; fix Ounces of Cur- 
rants, pick'd, wafli'd, and plump'd ; a little 
Salt, a little Nutmeg, and a little Sugar, if 
you like it, but they are lighteft without ; 
three or four Eggs, beat and ftrain'd : Mix 
all well together, fry them in a large Quan- 
tity of Lard or Dripping, and make them 
little bigger than Fritters. 

A Spanifli Potatoc or Parfnip Fritter. 

np A K E two large Spanljh or Portugal Po- 
-*• tatoes ; boil, j^el, and fcrape them ; 
beat them with four Eggs, leave out two of 
the Whites, a large Spoonful of Cream, and 
as much Sack as Cream, a little grated Nut- 
meg : Beat all for one Hour, till they arc 
very light, and fry them in a large Quan- 
tity of Lard, The Sauce that is ordered 
I for 



174 Additions to the Receipts 

for them, is melted Butter, Sack, and Sugar $ 
but Lemon and Sugar give more Quickneis to 
the Fritter^ and are leis apt to diiagree with 
the Stbmach. Note^ That Parfnips are as 
good as Potatoes. ' 

To hoil Garden^Things green. 

"Y^OU muft be fure the Water boils, when 
^ you put in your Peas, Greens, French- 
beans, or Afparagus ; when they are in, 
make it boil very faft again ; you need not 
cover them, but watch them, and may be 
aflur^d they arc enough, when they begin to 
fink to the Bottom, provided they have 
boil'd all the time : Take th^n out as foon 
as they fink, or they immediately change 
Colour. 

To fickle Lemons. 

npAKE large Lemons, and grate off a 
-■ little of the yellow Rind j make eight 
Scores in the Peel long- ways ; then lay them 
in the Sun, and take care no Rain comes to 
them for fix Weeks, when they will be dry; 
put them into a Jar, when you have fiird 
them with Muftard-feed ; pour Muftard-feed, 
and White-wine Vinegar over them, with 
fome flic'd Ginger in it ; put as much of this 
Pickle as will cover them. 

To Tickle Artichoke-Bottoms. 

TTAKE Art^ichokts, before they are at 
* their full Growth ; boil them fit to eat, 

then 



V 



\ 



f» Cookery, t^c. t/y 

then pull off the Leaves qidck, and put the 
"Bottoms into cold Water ; fliift them twice, 
let them lie twelve Hours in the third Wa- 
ter ; then wipe dry, and put them into Jars, 
and cover them with a Pickle made of 
White-wine, and White-wine Vinegar, one 
I^rt Wine, two Parts Vinegar ; half an 
Ounce of Mace ; as much Cloves and Pep- 
per, all whole : Boil it up, and let it ftand 
'till 'tis cold, before you pat it to the Bot- 
toms. 

To ke^ Wallmlts good all the Tear. 

pUTthem into ajar, on a Lay er ^f Sea 
f^ Sand ; ftrew Sand again, and & another 
Layer of Nuts, 'till 'tis full, and be fere they 
do not touch each other in any of the Layers j 
when you would ufe them, lay them in warm 
Water, Ihifting it as it cobls, for an Hour ; 
then rub them dry, and they will peel well, 
and eat fwcet. Lemons will keep thus co- 
vcr'd with Sand, longer than any other way. 
you can try* ^ 

iTo keep Goofebcrries for Tarts all the 

Tear. 

rjATHER them at their fullGrowth, 
^^ before they turn from the green Look ; 
top and tail them; then put them into large- 
mbuth'd Bottles j. put Corks in the Bottles, 
and fet them into a Kettle of Water up to 
the Neck j but take care the Cork be not 



V 



5 vvet^ 



/ 



1/6 Additions to the Receipts 

wet ; let the Water heat over a flo^y Fire, 
'till the Goofeberries begm to look white or 
break ; fet the Bottle on a Cloth, wlien they 
come hot out of the Kettle, becaufe 'tis apt 
to break : Whei) they are cold, drive the 
Corks hard in, and pitch. them down* 

To keep Whkc-Bullice or Pear-Plumbs. 

GATHER them when foil grown, and 
before they turn ; pick out the largeft^, 
and to the fmall ones, put as much cold Wa- 
ter as will make Liquor to cover the fine 
ones ; let thefe boil gently 'till they are ibft, 
then ftrain the Liquor from them, and let it 
ftand 'till 'tis cool enough to bear your Fin- 
ger \ then put your large ones into this Fickle, 
'till they are quite cold ; thett you muft put 
them into large-neck'd Bottles, or fmall Jars, 
and lay Paper, cut fit, upon them, oyei; 
which pour melted Butter, or rather fweec 
Oil : If you are carefol in taking it off, this 
Method feldom fails. 

To keep Damafcensy^r Tarts. 

\r O U muft make a Syrup of a Pound and 
-*• half of Sugar, to a Quart of Water j boil 
and fcum it, very clear; when cold, put theoi 
into the Syrup, fet them down on a loft 
Fire, and keep them down in the Syrup, an4 
gently ftirring 'till they are fcalding hot; 
then fet them off 'till cold ; put them into 
little Pots or Jars, fuch as you can ufe at once ; 

for 



in Miyfick -and Surgery. i ^>^ 

for when any of thefe Fruits are expofed to the 
Air, they fpoil in a Day , or two, unlefs fuch 
Sweet-ineats as ybu prefer ve' with full Weight 
of Sugar : Cover thefe over as the other, with 
melted Butter or Oil ; Beef-fuet is hard, ahd 
apter to cr^ck at thie Edge in Winter. 



medicine/. 

Dn Wadenfiel4'^ Remedy for ]yunacy^ imtl^ 
which a P erf on of^ality cured Hhreefcore: ' 

nPAKE of -Ground-Ivy three lafge Handful s 
^ fhred fmall, boil it in tyvo Quarts of 
,White-wihCj 'till 'two Parts in three be con- 
fumed. • Strain, and add to it fix .Ounces of the 
beft SalladOilj bbil it up to ^rt Ointment 5 let 
the Patient's Hftad be fhaved, rub and chafe it 
with the Ointment* made warm. Then tak« 
freftl Herb3, bniifed and applied plaifterWife, 
tying it on the/JTop of the Head very hard. 
Repcit this eyery other Day, ten or twelv^ 
times ; give thfe Patient three Spoonfuls of the 
Juice of Grcfaild-Ivy every Morning fafting, 
in a Glafs of Beer for the firft ten Days.' 

The^ Infallible' Po^er for Shortnefs of' Breathy 
efpeciully in Thung Ladies. 

TAKfi of ,Carraway and Anifeeil, each 
one Ounce, Liquorice half an Ounce,' 
one 'krgc Nutnicg, one Ounce of prepared 

M Steel, 



1 7^ Additions to tht Receipts 

Steel, and two Ounces of double-refin'd Su- 
gar ; reduce all to a very fine Powder, and 
take as much as^will lie on a Shilling, in the 
Morning falling, and at five in the After* 
noon, uiing £xercife« 

ji Confumptive Syrup. 

TAKE a Score of Shell-Snails, walh them 
clean, and crack the Shells, put them 
into a large Jdly-bag, with half a Pound of 
White Sugar-candy beat and ftrew'd among 
them ; let this hang twelve Hours at leaft, 
'till all the Sugar-candy be melted and drop 
out, of which you muft take a large Tea* 
QK)onfiil firft and laft, and whenever your 
Cough is troubleibme. This is a quicker and 
more effedual Medicine than Snail-water* 

fthe Famous French Method for the Bite 

of a Mad Dog. 

TAKE the Leaves of Rue, Vervain, the 
lefler Sage, Plantain, Polypody, Com- 
mon Wormwood, Mint, Motherwort, Balm, 
Betony, St. John's-wort, and the leffer Cen- 
taury, of each an equal Quantity ; gather 
thefe in June^ tie them up in little Bundles,, 
which are to be wrappM up in Papers, and 
hung in the Air where 'tis ihady ; when 
wanted, you are to pound them fo fine as 
to fift through a Silk or La\^rn Sieve. The 
Ddfe is from two, to three Drams of this 
Powder, with balf a Dram of the Powder of 

Vipei 



in Phyfick and Sutgcry* ifp 

yijJcrs-fleflij in a Glaft of good White- wine, 
in a Morning fafting^ for Bfcy-two Days to-* 
gether j if the Bite is near the Head or Face^ 
you muft double the Dofc. In this you arc 
cautioned agaihft wafliing the Wound with 
Waterj which coritradifts bur BngUp) Prafticc- 
of going to the Sea for that Purpofe. How- 
ever^ fince ^tis neceffary to cleanfe 6i^ the 
Foam or Blood, Camphirated Spirit, ot Spi- 
rit of Myrrh is better to wafli with : I let 
down this becaufe highly recdflimended ; but 
am, from late Experience, convinced, that 
ho Remedy is fo fure, as the Liver. of the 
Dog ; dry and powder it immediately, ancf 
give from three to fix Ounces of it, in Wine^ 
Syrupy or any way you can bcft get the Pa- 
tient to fwallow it. And depend upon it, ^tis 
the beft Medicine yet difcovered for that fad' 
Malady. Take the Quantity within twcnty- 
fpiir Hours, if poffible. 

jiff otti^ard Application fir d Chin^ 

Coughs 

MIX an equd Qpantity of Spirit of Hart'i 
'■ Horn, and Oil of Amber j not exceed- 
ing half ah Oiince at a Time, becaufe in often 
Openings it decays. With this anoint thef 
Palms of the Hands, Pit of the Stomach, aind 
Soles of the Feet, for a Month together ; 
and let no Water cdme iiigh any of the Parts 
anointed : The Fingers and Backs of the 
Haiidd may be wip'd with a ^et Cloth. 



^- 



I 

180 Additions to the Receipts 
For St. Anthony'5 Fire. 

TAKE one Part fine Spirit or Oil of 
Turpentine, and one Part finely redify 'd 
Spirit' of Wine J mix and ftiake the Glafs^ 
when you ufe it, anointing the Face gently 
with a Feather, or your Finger, not covering 
it. Do it often, and it cures in a Day or two; 
but take care not to come near your Eyes. 
It Iqftbns and heals, tho' at firft you thiak it 
inflames,. You may put more or lels Spirit, 

of Wine, gs you like. 

• * - . 

A mop excellent Bitter, not inferior to 
\Sy-- ScQughton'j 2)r^5. 

^ A.KE t^o^Ounces of Gentian-root, the 
^inds of nine Oranges, they muft be of 
tfeelwgeft right Seville^ and par'd very thin, 
two Brams of Saffron, and two Drams of Co- 
chineal ; infufe all in. one Quart of Brandy, 
for forty eight Hours, in, the hotteft Sun ; 
then philter it thro' whited-brown Paper : 
After this you .may take from, twenty Drops 
torkTea-fpoonful, in Wine, Beer, Tea, or 
any" Liquor y6u. like. 

The hejl Way Xo' prepare Gum Ammo- 
- • • .' iilacum. 

T,Q m\{ 2L 3?ipt^'<?f choice Spirit of Wine, 
' put oncOupce of Gupi 4wmoniacum, 
nicely powdef'^,a{id^fifted j fet it in an hot 

Sun 



T 



in Phyfick and Surgery* i8i 

Siin for fix Weeks, Ihdking the Glafs often> 
tin within three Days of pduruig it off; then 
let it ftand to ftttle, an<3 decanf ic as clear as 
you can, without, t^king.apy. of the Pawdei' : 
A Tea-fpoonful of this 'Spijiiti' with twenty 
Drops of Tindure, of Caftpr,';io what Sottof 
Liquor you like, gives , immediate Relief rn 
an Afthma ; four Spoonfuls of Spring-water, 
and two of Sack, are as proper as any. 

Jn Infufion for the Cure of Melancholy. 

TAKE two Drams of u^nifeed, two 
Drams pf Myrrh, one Pram of Cochi- 
neal, two Drams of Hiera-pj^ra j infufe all 
in a Quart of White- wine ; let it ftand three 
Days, then philter it, and give the Patient 
five Spoonful^ in a Morning' fafting, and at 
four in the Afternoon, till they have taken 
two Quarts. ^ ' ^ 

^n Jnfufionfor ^ Dropfy. 

pUT fix Spoonfuls of the Juice of Garlick, 
•• ^a Pint of the beft Arrack, with one Dram 
of Cochineal ; let it ftand twenty four Hours, 
then philter it, and give four Spoonfuls twige 
a Day, till the whole be taken. 'Tis a moft 
naiifeous Medicine, but has done mighty 
Cures ; efpecially when, the Throat or Breath 
is much afFe6led by the Diftemper. 

M*3 ji^re^ 



1 8 1 Aflditioni to the Receipts 

> 

^A 'Prefervathe againfi the Peftilence. 

TAKE of Rue, Sage, Mint, Rofcmary, 
Wormwood and Lavender, of each one 
Handful : inftiie them in a Gallon of the 
bcft White- wine Vinegar, pi^t all into a Stone 
Bottle clofely covered and pafted ; fet the 
Bottle^ thus clos'd, upon warm. Aflics for 
eight bays together. After ^hich, ftrain it 
through a Flannel, and put the Liquor into 
•Bottles, and to every Quart put an Ounce of 
Camphire; then cork the Bottles very clofe, 
and it will keep fome Years. With this 
l^reparation, wafti your Moutb, rub your 
Temples, and ^our Loins every Day ; Ibutf 
a little up your Noftrils when you go into 
the Air, and carry about you a Sponge dipt 
in the fame, when you defire to refrefli the 
Smell upon any Occafion, efpecially when 
near to any Place or Perfon that is infedcd. 
From a Phyfician in the Duke of Berwick's 
Army, in the Year 1721, we were told. 
That four Malefaftors, who ufed to rob the 
Jnfe£ted Houfes, &c. had pwn'd at their Ex- 
ecution, That they prefer vcd themfelvcs from 
the Contagion by ufing this Medicine only. 
And the Truth having been fince confirmed 
by a Gentleman then prefent, I thought it 
defer v*d 9 Place here ; |fpecially fince the 
Ingredients are fb well chofen for that Pur- 
polei as to need no Recommendation but 
I heir pwn Vjr^ue, - ^ y^ 



in Pbyfick and Surgery. 1 8 j 
To cure a Quinfey. 

WHEN Bleeding has fkil'd, take a Swal- 
low's Neft^ as whole as you can get \t 
down, boil it in Milk /till 'tis foft, thea 
wrap it in a Cloth, and apply it to the Throat 
as hot as the Patient can bear it. This exy 
cellent Poultis has very often cured, when 
other Remedies have been ufed to no EfFcd. 

Andther prefent Remedy t 

nPAKE frelh CowVdung, mix it well with 
* Hog's Lard over the Fire, apply it by 
way of Poultis as hot as it carl be borne ; 
ihift it as it cools, a^d continue it 'till the 
Perfon is eafed. It draws the Humour out- 
ward, and opens the Pailage of the Gullet* 

An admtrahle SnufF/or the Head. 

TAKE of Sage, Rofemary, Lilies of the 
Valley, the Tops of Sweet-marjoram, 
of each half an Ounce, of Nutmeg, and of 
Afarabacca-roots, each one Dr^m ; dry them, 
and reduce them to a very fine Powder. 

fhe ETSlDofth First Part. 



M4 INDEX 




IN D E X 



FIRST PART. 



ijOJJ av Afthma A jimaus French Method fir 

I Paf^ci^S m&ofaMa4Doi 178 

? ATiather for an An exeeUent Bitcerj notirifr- 

I Afthina 158 riar to StoughtonV Dropt 

\ Additions to ,180 

Parti. 170 C 

ror 5*'. AnthonyV ifrf 180 7i Collar Be?/ 14 

B n» make French Cutlets ibid. 

To T?roa Vigaons whole ly To Collar a Breafi of Mutton 

Tu'^dii aTurkey^oT anyFovil, to eat hot \6 

i^iihOilier Sauce 37 Tit Collar * P;^ itj 

To wflite Black-Caps, the heji To make VealCfxAzts 20 

lu^/ 5 8 To Collar a Breaft of Veal to 

To make very good Barley cat hat 28 

duel 62 Cuftards, "very good ^9 

7"^f N"»r Eisket 79 Or«K^fCheefc Cakes ibid. 

v4re excelient BalfatB 105 A Chedc Cake -without Curd 

French Kin/fBalfam 127 ^o 

For the Biting of a Mad Dog Another •with Curd ibid. 

128 AOi^zzASackFo^et 52, 

A ceriain Remedy to take Fire Almi/nd Cream 59 

ost'tfaBurn 1^4, Cr«K^e Cream ibid. 

BccfA!a7iJoc'e,toeathot 172 A very rich AlmondCiXe3,m to 

5ff'Boii Garden Things green yelly ibid. 

174 Pijlachia Cream 61 

T9f:tfiv:hiteEiiiiice,6-r.i76 To mate Fry'd Creum ibid. 

T9 



Jo I 1^ D E X 

To make thick fquare Cream- For a Cough dndShortnefs rf 

Cheefe, as at Newport 6^ Breath i^g 

Orange Chvps 67 Another for the Jame ibid." 

Apricot Chi^ 08 Another for the fame lyj 

Cakes of Orange Vlo'wers 70 For a Chin-Cough ibid. 

Conferve *of R(?/^^ ibid. For the Cholick 161 

To Candy any Sort ofFlowrs For the fame ' ibid.' 

71 For Convulfive Cholick ibid. 
A goodSortofPortugalCzkcs Another for the ChoMck i6z 

72 For the fame ibid. 
A Carraway - Cake ^without For a violent Cholick Pain 

Teafi 73 in the Side 164, 

To make Stone Cte^m 74 Out^ward Application for a 

T<? w^;^? Cracknels ibid. Chin-cough itfp , 

A very good Seed Cake 75 To make Catchup that vsill 

An extraordinaryFlumbCskQ lafi good 20 Tears 170 

77 To make Catchup of Mujb^ 

Iceing for the Cake , ibid. rooms ibid. 

Jtatafia Cakes 79 D. 

A very rich Cherry Cordial To Drels a Turbet^ or any 

9/ DifbofFiJb 17 

F(?fConvulfionS(?rVertigoii7 To make Dutch Beef • 21 

A Cold Caudle in a Fever To Drels Hogs Feet and Ears 

131 28 

For a Cough and Shortnefs A Drink for any invjard 

of Breath IJ5 Brutfe orWouM . iqa. 

A good viay to make Caudle A Drinker the Evil 10& 

ibid. A Dr'mk for the Kinj^s^Evil 

A tuholejbme Cprdhl 139 and Cancer ibid. 

For aCxokttinthe Mouth or A mofl excellent Drink for 

Gums 150 the King^s-Evilin the Eyes 

To cure a Cough ajtd Short^ 121 

nefs of Breath 152 The Bickettyjirivk 129 

Another pr a Cough 153 A cooling Drink in a Fever 

For the fame ibid. or Fleurijy 130 

]Por the fame ivith a Hoarfe- Amther Drink in a Fever 

nefs ibid. ibid. 

For a Whooping Cou^ 154 Another Dr'wk 131 

For a Cough ibid. Another Sort ibid. 

For a Confumptive Cough An incomparable Drink in a 

ibid. thirfly Fever 136 

A very good FeBoral Drink A Draught _^r a Confump^^ 

for the fame 155 tion ibid. 

A 



i 



Jt Drink fir the Gomt i±o A Gargle fir a Sore nraaf 
An excellent fwtging Ale for i ^^ 

^Dropfy 144 A Gzrgle in the Pal/} ibid. 

fer a DropfV 145 Another Gargle i» /A? Palfv 

Far a Dropiy I4(J J^ 

urf a-ink w /A^ GoMt 9r To keep Goofeberrics all the 
Kbeumatifm 149 Tear lyr 

'Ji good Drink « a Cenfimp^ Befi nvay to prepare Gum 

_'*^ ^ \. ^ *5* Ammon|acum i8o 

VfeursDeamdb i^3 u 

^^^^ ibid, ^rr^ ^ 

Another fir a Tarn in the ^ titihaCalfi'Head 27 

K^r ibid. ^'''* ^^^ Head-ach 140 

Another for the fame ibid. 5f^^ Hoarfenefi 154 

-* j^g Habit of Body 16% 

Ifffiijlon fir a Drovfy 181 ^^^^^ 169 

E ^^w/^w- ibid. 

^;*EleaMary/artfOi»/iwf^ -^"^^^^^ iWd. 

^^ igy Another ibid. 

Jf» admrable Eleduary ^r J 

4 Cdi^A lyo itarfs^horn or CalFs^fiot 

Tor a Blow or^ Hurt m the jdly, fhe heft way 58 

py^ '^4 To make Almondnet or white 

F Telly ' C7 

ToVxic^y thickens Of Sweets JcHy of Currants 6y 

^J^ur L r .,.?? Codlin or Pippin Jdly 82 

Anther fir the fame ibid. F(7r <f» InflammaticHi i» /i^ 

Xa Force a Leg of Lamb 24 Tz&r^^^ itjj, 

^l7 ^^^r'J''' G^r/r//&/^r ^£2^ ^i^ Jaundice i2 

FiJborHalh p A pleafant and frfe Medicine 

To make goodFotc d-Meatfir for the re/Aw Jiundice 14.8 

^ anyUfe ^ 41 ■ 

A pretty Sort of Flummery L 

(Jj To make Loh^er-'Lozves 26 

f To make Harfs-horn Flum- htmoh-CreamT, befi way 58 

inerv ibid. Lemon-Cii^ex 66 

To make good Fritters 80 For a Loofenefi 16% 

A Spani/b Potatoe or Parjmp The beft way efB^ningClaret 
Fritter 173 fir a Loofenefs i6^ 

G For a Loofenefi ibirf..' j 

T57?* Ginger-bread 72 -^wr*#r /br ^Loofenefi ibidf 

Far /Ae Gout 13 j Another for the fame i6y 

t Cinnamon^. 



>fo I N D E X. 

pnnamm Water fw a Lcwfe- P 

nds and Fever ibid. Voxdesfor aJDiJbefTi/b 1% 

far a Loofene6 and Gripes To Pickle Tork ^9 

ibid. The beft v)ay to Pot Beef 7,% 

^notber for a Loofencfs and To make a Potatoe Pie 30 

GriMs 16Z A Sweet Pie^ totnch may ie 

For the fame ibid. made cf young Lami or 

Pr, Wadenfield'f Remedy for Chickens 1% 

Lunacy, ^f. 177 TomakeaHog-meatVy^ 35 

To make Lobfier Pies 37 

M To TfotNeatS'Tong^eSy a bet- 

To make Orange Marmalade ter way than drying them 

66 39' 

fVhite Mead 89 To Pot Salmon as at New- 

Strong Mead 92 caftle . 40 

Infupon to cure Melancholy Xo Pickle Mackarel^ caVtd 

I Si Caveach ibid. 

O ToVoil^amprey 42 

An, Oa for any Bruife or AV/e^hsSiiHam'Pit ibid. 

Wound io5 To Pickle Codlins like Mango 

AnO'mtmexit for Swellings in ibid. 

the Kini^s Evil 109 T^^ Pickle ^^/%i«/^ 4) 

.^» Gintpient for the Evil or To Pickle Mufbrooms 44 

Tickets no ToViddtNeatS'Tongues « 

The SmallageOmmtDX. 123 T0 Pickle Fi^e^xr ibid. 

An Ointment good for any To Pickle Smelts 46 

Ach or Swelling in Man or To Pickle Oilers ibui. 

Beaft 124 An Affle Pudding to Bake 

An Ointment^r a. Burn 132 47 

An Ointment which is a cer^ The befi Orange Pudding that 

tain Cure for any Scabsy ever was tafted ibid« 

Timflesy or old inveterate A Bice Pudding 4S 

Itch • i2(J White Ho^sVuMmi^ ibid 

An incomparable Ointment -^ Netf/'/Fw/Puddmg A9 

foraStrainy Weaknejsy or ThinCreamVincaksSycdlPda 

ShrinkingintheNerves 127 §uire of Paper 5 \ 

AnOintmentfor a Child that An Almond fudiing ibid. 

has the Bidets 128 Or^w^e Pudding 52 

AnO'mtmciit fir the Back of Cheefe-curd Vuddim^ 53 

anbeakyBicketty Child ix^ TomakeHo^sV\xdAva!p 54 

grf» excellent Ointment for a Liver Puddings very good 

' fainin the Side 164 5? 

A Sagoe 



:/*! I N D E X. 

'A ^4fgoe-Pudding 55 An admirable Poflet-drink in 

An Orange-^oS&x. 60 a P/euriJ}y or Shortmfs of 

TniMtdz for a fck or *weai StO' Breath 15^ 

maeh (J5 A vfrjf good 'Purge In a Fever 

Ta Preferve Afrlcots in 156 

Jellj 68 Pills for Shortnefs (f Breath 

PtawlJns 6r Ftfd Almonds 155 

69 Another for the fame 1561 

Ta Preferve Orange-flowers Powder for Confumftion 157 

ibid. ForthePlexiriVy ' 159 

A Vowder for Digefiion 71. Another 160 

An.excellent Plumb-Pudding A Poflet-drink for a Cough 

74. 162 

Hgg JMinc^d'Vyes . 76 For aVkurKy and Feiy£r ^6$ 

laemon or Chocolate-VwSs jZ Paris Pies 171 

Almond PuSs ibid. Pan Puddings /^/r/ 173 

Pancakes, 'very good 80 To Pickle 'Lemons 174 

To Preferve Golden-Tiffins To Fickle Artichoak Bottoms 

the beft vjay 82 . , , ibkl. 

Tomake Mlk-Vxmchi 91 Infallible Powder for Shorts 

The Red Powder for Fevers^ nefs of Breathy efpecially in 

Small-pox^ or Surfeits 115 young Ladies 177 

CSifcoign Powder, tf^^^yZr/, A Prcfervative agamfi the 

for the fame Ups 114 Peftilence i'82 

A very good Powder for a r\ 

Dizzinefs in the Headland ^ 

/(? prevent AtopleBick Fits ^^ ^^\^ ^ Quinfy ' 182 

J J Another prefent Remedy ibid.« 

A Powder to" (lop a Hie tup _ 

in Many IVoman^ or Child ^ 

ibid. To Roaft a Calfs-Head 24 

An excellent Po^xderfor Con- To Roaft a Breafi of Pork ,27 

vnlfion Fits ibid. To make Ratafia ^ 92 

A Powder for Digeflion 116 A prefent Remedy for Cax^ 

A, very good Plaifter /or a vufftonFits jkJ 

Stomach J ore ^ith Coughing Another for the fame jij 

123 . 

Plaifters j^r ^jf Ff^/iy^r 124 S 

A very good "Pouliis for afore A Green Peas Soup, vjhhaut 

Breafl ^ jzd J^icat ^ 

A Poflet-drink to he taken be* A very good Soup i o' 

fore the Fit of an Ague 133 A very good Pi as Soup 1 1 

Cravi's 



\ 
/ 



\A» I N D E X. 

Crttvy-fifb'y or Fra^wn Soup For the fame - ♦ ibidi* 

ibid. To Sweeten ^the Bhod im 
Teas So\xp fir Lent or any Scurvy -, yaundice^ or any 
Fapingt>ay 12 Fains in the Limbs' 14.7 

A Meat SoM^ 13 For the StQhe 14^ 

To Stew Fi^ons 16 ' Amther fir the Stone ibid. 

To Stew ft Hare 23 Fcr Sweating in the Nighty 

To make Siovt Veal 29 in a Confumption 157 

To Stew C^rj& 30 ForShonr\z(sofBreath ibitf- 

Good Sauce /<?r boiled Rahbits For a Stitch m /^e Side idi 

■^l A Sx.Q2tkt Fiorendine ijt 

A pretty Szixce fir Woodcocks^ A Confumptive Syrup 17? 

• (?r «»/ Wild Fowl 32 -<^» admirable Snim fir tbi 

1 7b Stew Herrings 33 iff^^ i?3 

7b 7»/jj^e Saufages 34. vp 

Scotch-O^/Zof^a ^ ^oii/ 'way 

35 -^ i;^r; i:(7a^Tanfy 54 

To St^V/ Oifiers 3 (J ASfinageJzxtvery good 81 

Ta Stew tf R«rws|p of Beef ^ 41 ' AnAlmondTzxt very good ib, 
7b Stew GoW<?w P/>/>/»x 56 Te? gk'? f^r^/j:/;? E^y^ ;» ^jbe 
^ Whipt Syllabub txtraordi" Tooth-ach 122 

Tutry 54 A con f ant daily Waflo fir the, 

To make 5agoe • -65 Teeth 151 

Tp make Salep ibid. r<^ clean very foul fpottei 

To improve Syder^ artd make Teeth ibid- 

. it ferfe(rly fne ^x A Mucilage for a fore Throat 

Spirit <?/ C/tfr/ 9f(f ^15^ 

Spirit <yC«rri«'u;i^j'f ibid. yV 

-4 Salve /ir the Kin^s-Evil 

I o^ 7b make Weftphalia Hams 3 X 
Tor a Strain jio Wafers * 72 

-.4 Syrup /<^r Convulfon Fits The Lpndon Wigs j& 

117 7&f r/g^/ Dutch-Wafer 78 
^ gW Sear-cloth 122 7b make Raifin Elder Wine 

An incomparable Salve/br the ix 

Eyes ■ ibi(£*; Another very 'wholefome ibid. 

FortheStone>andGraveli±o ^nce-Wme 84 

For Stoppage of Water inM Orange-Wma • 85 

Stone 141 B/y^/?-Wine> <J^ w^/fe tn 

For the Stone ibid. ^uflex ibid. 

Another for the Stone .142 Black Qkerry-Wmt Stf 

For the ScvLTvy ibid. ^/i^^-Wine 87 

JFtfr the fame 143 CA^rr/AVine, tfx/» Kent ib, 

|Jiwtfrr/ 



:^ I N D E It 

JtoiffrfiWiae 88 TbtBarU/ Cimumc» Water 

jlfrUtt Wine 89 ibid. 

DMUjfcrmWax ^ VValout Water 119 

OwtowiKwwWWineib. ^vtrjgooJSnMilWiia ibid. 

Goekberrj Wine 92 A gud i£lk Water for Sitr- 

SUrr-fltmerWiae 93 ftits 9r Warmi 120 

CtMww* Water 94. fffMg £Un^■im7 Water ib. 

^(«r^/Or«vr Water 94 Aeort£atM»tWner ibiA. 

Or/ravWater ibid. ^ ^WJIfi/it Water 121 

AtorJUlBlstkCberry'WzVBt Anther Milk Waxt ibid. 

97 WaUnut Wster goaim Agues 

'AStroKgTayiyWs.XSX 99 Or Fevers 131 

VJeaftbstWaxet loi AHexttilemtSmailWlBaind 



AfecomtPa^yWuei loz Confumpth* ibid. 

f got/ SMtlVf iter fir A geodEpiJemie'Wa.xet 133 
nfimftpm ibid. -^ J'W/ Water _/ir Stnfeits 



sCanJim 
agomf-Wi 



/Water ^or (j6r 5p&n» 157 

lo] AMther farm Surfeit 138 

'jfgoodWatafirtheStMeib. A rich Swrfeit CorMalWaxst 

A JUilkWatet fir Cancer cr ibid. 

Rtn^i-Evii 109 A gte J hitter Vfine 147 

ArWonns iii A geed Mnttb Vfater te ie 

tar the fame ibid. m^V mEm^^ w aE*; Scurvy 

for the fame . ibid. 14.9 

Vsr the fame 112 A» txttUent Wa.ta far the 

Fartbejamejimllrecommeiided SttneCbalick 16a 

1 1 3 TV fc*y Wtlnuts f Mi/ <// «*« 

Afirai^ Milk Water 118 R«r 17^ 



F I N / S. 



*\ 



fclllf* 



II I * 



- ' • " •' "in 



T 



COLLECTION 



O F 






RECEIPTS 



I N 



Cookery, 

/ ... 

Phyfick a^d Surgery. 



< 

» 



PART IL 



CONTAIHINO LIKEVISE 



A great Number of Excellent Receipts, for Preferoiag 
and Confervit^ of Sweet-Meats, &c. 



By Several Hands. 



The FOURTH EDITION. 






■MMV m 



x= 



LONDON: 

Printed ibr W. Parker, at the 

'm S t Pauta Gmch-T ard, 

MDCCXXXIV. 



VfiMi 



wwi* 



. I 



• « s^« • * 



1 \ 









» 



t "^x • • 



T . 






«»« ^« * • « 



I 



COLLECTION 

'of 

R E C.E I iP T S 

IN 

COOKERY, Sec. 

^ A R T It 

■ : : :, ; .... ■ - 

To make Plutnb-Pdrridgc. 

I O I L a large Leg of Beef td 

n Rags, and make as mtlch Broth 

y as will Jelly when cold j when 

I 'tis enough, ftrain it ; let it ftand 

to be cold, that you may take off 

aii the t'at, then put it over the Fire again ; 

and to every Gallon erf" Broth^ pu£ near a 

pound of Currants, and half a Pound of 

Raifins, clean wafli'd and pick'd ; Stew alio 

two Pounds of Prunes, and when they are 

N plump'd^ 



1 p4 A ColUaion of Receipt i 

plump'd, take out the faireft to put in wholes 
and pulp the reft thro' a Cullender, and wafh 
the Scone and Skins clean with fome of the 
Broth ; take alio the Crumb of a Penny 
white Loaf grated, to every Gallon ; and to 
four Gallons, you may put about two Nut- 
megs, the Weight of that in Cloves and Mace, 
and the Weight of all in Cinnamon ; let all 
the Spice be finely beat and gra(;pd j add Salt 
and Sugar to your Tafte ; when the Fruit 
is plump, 'tis enough j but juft before you 
take it from the Fire, iqueeze in the Juice 
of four or five Lemons, and throw in the Peel 
of two J four Gallons will require a Quart 
of Claret, and a Pint of Sack, which mull be 
put in with the Fruit. 

yb make Calves-Foot Broth. 

BOIL your Feet in as much Water as will 
make a^ good Jelly ; when 'tis enough, 
ftrain it, and fet the Liquor on the Fire again, 
with two or three Blades of Mace ; if 'tis two 
Quarts, about half a Pint of Sack, half a 
Pound of Currants, clean walh'd, and pick'd j 
when they are plump, beat up the Yolks of 
two Eggs, and mix them with a little of the 
cool Liquor ; fo thicken it with great Care, 
over a gentle Fire, put Salt and Sugar to 
your Tafte, and ftir in a Bit of Butter ; a 
little before you take it off the Fire, put in 

the 



^ 



in Cookery, ^cl 1^5' 

the Juice and Peel of a frelh Lemon : This, 
tho' old-faftiion'd, is a pretty Supper-Dilh. 

Calves-Feet, another Way. 

BOIL two Calvcs-Fcct, a Bit of Veal, a 
Bit of Beef, ^nd the Bottom of * a white 
Loaf ; add no Scafoning, but two or three 
Blades of Mace, a fliccd Nutmeg, and fome 
Salt ; have Ibme boil'd Rice to ftir in after 
you have ftrain'd it from the Bones and 
Skins ; put a boilM Chicken in the middle, 
and Sippits in the Dilh. This is very pou- 
rifhing^ and lefs ofTenfive to weak Stomachs, 
than any Soup that is made. 

To Dnfi a Cod's Head. 

Tir HEN you have wafli'd and picked it 
*^ extremely clein, tie it up tight with a 
broad Filleting, that it may keep together, 
and take out as whole as 'tis poffible ; let 
the Liquor you boil it in, be one Pint of Vine- 
gar, and the reft Water, enough to cover it ; 
put into th^s three Onions quartered, fome 
w^hole Pepper, Mace, and Sweet-herbs ; and 
when it boils, throw in a Handful of Salt ; 
'tis apt to difcolour it, ,if put in at firft ; 
when 'tis clean fcumm'd, and taftcs well of 
the Spice, put in the Head, let it fimmer 
at leaft half an Hour ; then take it out, and 
place it on youi; Dilh, over a hot Chafing-difh 

N a ^ of 



<--. 



*-% 



ft 

1 ^6 A CoIh£iion of Receipts 

of Coals ; that it may be furc to drain very 
dry, prick the Eyes, and , other Parts of the 
Head, to let out the Liquor, and foak up all 
with a Sponge ; the Sauce muft be made ^ 
with a Pint of White-wine, almoft as much 
Water, fix or eight Anchovies, a large Onion, 
a Nutmeg, four or five Blades of Mace, fome 
whole Pepper, and a Bit of Lemon Peel and 
Horfe-radifli, if you like it ; when the An- 
chovies are diflblv'd, ftrain it, and add the 
Liver. of the Cod bruis'd, the Body of a 
Lobfter, and at leaft a Pound of extraordi- 
nary Butter ; work a little Flour with a Bit 
of the Butter, that it may mix, and be all 
of a Colour j let the laft thing be the Juice 
of a Lemon or Vinegar, the reft of the Lob- 
fter cut in Dice, fome Shrimps and Oifi:ers 
fry'd and fcaldcd, and fry'd flattifli round the 
Head. 

To iBroil Chickens. 

LE T your Chickens be very fat, flit them 
down the Back, and ftalbn them with 
Salt and Pepper, lay them on a very clear 
Fire, and at a great Diftance,*and let the 
Ififide lie next the Fire, that the flefhy Side 
be not fcorch'd or difcolour'd j when they 
are half done, you may turn them often, 
and bafte them mightily ; ftrew on fome 
Rafpings of a Freri:h Roll ; that it ma^J>e 
crifp, it muft be finely grated j Ihred Parlley, 

and 



V, 



in Cookery, &c. 197 

and melted Butter, is a good and a ready 
Sauce : But I am ordered to fet down what 
follows as extraordinary j Take a large Hand- 
ful of Sorrel, dip it in fcalding Water, then 
drain it, and have ready half a Pint of ftrong 
Broth or Gravy, a Shallot Ibred fball, a little 
Thyme, a Utile Parfley, a Bit of burnt Butter 
to thicJcen it, lay the Sorrel in Heaps, and 
pour the Sauce over it : Garnifti with fliced 
Lemon. * 

To Stew Wild-Fowl. 

TLT A L F roaft them, and cut them in 
•* ^ Pieces, fet them over a Chafing-dilh of 
Coals, with half a Pint of Claret, as much 
good Gravy, which muft be firft boil'd and 
feafbn'd with Shallot and Spice j let it ftew in 
this Liquor, 'till 'tis high coloured and well 
mix'd, and they eat better than off thcSpit, 






ji good Gravy, to keep ready for any 

Ufi- 

"DURN an Ounce of Butter in your Fry- 
ing-pan, but always take care to do it 
at fuch a Diftance from the Fire, that as 
you ftrew in the Flour to the Butter, it 
may be brown, but not black ; put to it two 
Pounds of coarfe lean Beef, a Quart of Wa- 
, ;' , and half a Pint of Wine, Red or White, 

N 3 ^ as 



\ 



1 9 8 A ColUSiion of Receipts 

as you like the Colour ; put three Anchovies, 
two Shallots, fbme whole Pepper, Cloves 
and Mace, three or four Mufhrooms, or as 
many pickled Wallnuts, let it ftew gently 
near an Hour, then ftrain it j 'twill keep 
fome Time, and is proper for any favoury 
Difh. 

To Roafl Pike or Mackarcl. 

TAKE one large Pike, or four large 
Mackarel, draw and wafii them clean, 
make the Seafoning of four Anchovies, a Pint 
of Oyfters, or Shrimps, Nutmegs, Cloves and 
Mace, a little Parfley, an Onion, or Shallot, 
if you like it ; ftired and grate all thele very 
fmall, and mix it up with full half a Pound 
of good Butter ; fill the Bellies of the Fifti 
with this Seafoning, and flrcw fbme on the 
Outfide of them ; with flat large Skewers and 
a broad Tape, tie them on to the Spit, baile 
it as it roafls with Claret or Butter (I prefer 
the laft) ; let your Sauce be Wine, Oifler- 
Liquor, Anchovy, Spice, Butter, and Vinegar, 
which is always to be the laft Ingredient j 
when you flir in your Butter, take €are you 
ftir in no more Flour than will make it mix 
well, bccaufe the Seafoning thickens it. 



To 



_ .__: — s_j 



in Cookery, &c. ipp 

To Roafi a Haunch of Vcnifon. 

]i^ A K E up a lubftantial Fire before you 
^^ lay it down, then baftc and flour it, 
and with very fine Skewers faften a Piece of 
Veal-Gawl over the fat Part; if that cannot 
be had, the White of an Egg, or Paper well 
butter'd will fer\re. A Haunch of i a Pounds 
weight will take ' up three full Hours to be 
well foak'd : Your Sauce niuft be Gravy, 
with a great deal of Claret in it ; the fafhion** 
able fweet Sauce, is Jelly of Currants made 
hot. What was formerly ufed, was a Pap- 
Sauce made of white Bread boil'd in Claret, 
with a large Stick of Cinnamon, and when 
boiPd 'till fmooth, take out the Cinnamon, 
and add Sugar. It is difficult to give general 
Rules about Roafting and Boiling, becaufe 
Cooks are apt to negleQ: a Fire, and not mind 
the Diftance, that it may neither (corch nor 
pawl J but as to Time, I will venture to lay, 
that, allowing a quarter of an Hour to every 
Pound of Meat, at a fteady Fire, your Ex- 
pedations fliall hardly ever fail, from a Fowl 
to a Sirloin of the largeft Ox. And the fame 
Method may be followed in Boiling. 



V. 



N4 



< 



$pQ A QJleftion cf ReceipU 

fTq Roajt Eels, 

SKIN and >yalh the fineft large Eels 
you can get, cut them in three, four, or 
five Pieces, according as they are for Size ; 
make a Scafoning of grated Nutmegs beaten 
Pepper and Salt, a little Thyme and Sage, 
a little Lemon-peel, the Crumb of white 
Bi^ead j let all thefe be finely grated and 
jhred^ and ftrewM on the Eels, ftiek them 
crofs each other on Skewers, and \it the 
Skewers to your Spit, and let them roaft 'til} 
they begin to crack, and arp white at the 
Bone :. be fure to bafte them wpll, as they 
roaft ; melted Butter and Tuice of Lemon i$ 
the beft Sauce, becaufe the Seafqning gives 
them as good a Relilh as they can have : 
they fry or broil, as wfll as ifbaft, fo feafon'd, 

A Smet Saufe for Boir^ Mutton, 

jvery good. 

TAKE a quarter of a Pint of the Broth 
your Mutton was boird in, put to it four 
SpoQiifuls of the Pickle of Capers or Sam- 
phire, fet it on the Fire to boil j then ftired 
a Carrot, which has been firft boil'd tender, ^ 
and four Spoonfuls of Capers or Samphire 
ihred : put this into the Liquor ; when it 
boils, ftir in four Ounces of Butter, and Ihake 

a yery' 



in Cookery^ c^^. 201 

a very little Flour, fwecteh it, and pour it 
pver ;he Meat : 'Tis a grateful, tho' old- ' 
falhion'd Sauce. 

Tq make a Tafiy of Beef or Mutton, at 

good as Vcnifon. 

BO N E a fmall Rump, or a Piece of a 
Sirloin of Beef ; or, if you like Mutton 
better, let it be a Loin or a Shoulder of Mut- 
ton,, but Beef is beft ; when . your Meat is 
boned, beat it very well with your Rolling- 
Pin, then rub ten Pounds of this Meat with *^ 
four Ounces of Sugar, and let it lie twenty- 
four Hours, then wipe it very clean, or wafii 
it off v^ith a Glafs of Claret, and fealbn it 
l^igh with Pepper, Nutmeg, and Salt 5 lay it 
in your Gruft, and cover fo much Meat 
with full two Pounds of Butter j put on the 
Cruft, and bake it as much as Venifon ; fet 
the Bones into the Oven, with no more Wa- 
ter than will cover them, that you may 
have a little good Gravy, to put into the 
Pafty, if it wants it when drawn. Let no 
one diflike the laying it in Sugar, 'till they 
have try'd it, for how prepofterous an In- 
gredient foever it may feem in a favoury Pie, 
I muft beg Leave to affure the Reader, that 
nothing gives fo certain a Shortnefs and 
Tendernels to the Meat, as Sugar ; and, if 
carefully waflied or' wiped off, it leaves a 
Delicacy that is equal to Venifon j and iincc 

I have 



201 A CaJieiiion of Receipts 

I have Occafion to mention Sugar, 'tis my ' 
Opinion, that in our common Englijh Bacon, 
'tis as efiedual in the Cure of it as Salt ; and 
vrhereas abundance of Salt makes it hard and 
dry, the Addition of Sugar gives a Ten- 
derneis almoft equal to right freftphatia^ and 
preferves it good all the Year, with half the * 
Quantity of Salt we formerly ufed. 

A Shrimp Pic. 

TAKE a Quart of Shrimps, clean pick'd 
from the Shells ; if they are very fait 
in the boiling, feafen them only with a little 
Cloves and Mace, but if they want Salt, 
ihred two or three Anchovies very fine, and 
mix them with the Spice, and feafon the 
Shrimps ; you may make a good Cruft, be- 
caufe they don't want much baking ; put a 
pretty deal of Butter over and under them, 
one Glafs of White- wine, and fct it in the ' 
Oven : Where Shrimps are to be had, this is 
not ian expenfive, but a very delicious Dilh. 

« 

A Hare Pie. 

BONE the Hare, and fhred the Meat 
fmall, take almoft the Weight in frefti 
Beef-fuet, ftircd that fmall then too, beat both 
in a Marble Mortar,'till 'tis fo finely mix'dyou 
cannot difcover the Meat from the Suet ; if 

the 



in Cookery, &c. 203 

the Hare was large/twill take up two Ounces 
of Salt, two finall Nutmegs, their Weight in 
Cloves and Mace, and add alio a litte fine 
Pepper j mix the Spice well with the Meat,and 
put it into a good Cruft and bake it ; 'tis 
good hot or cold. 

f 

ji very pretty Cruft for Tarts. 

TAKE three Eggs and beat them well 
together, put to them three SpolSnfuls 
of cold Water, then break in a Pound of 
Butter J while you are working it all together,* 
let ibme Flour be ftiak'd in, and work it 
together, ftill ftrewing in more Flour, 'till 
'tis a pretty ftiff Pafte, then roul it out for 
Tarts ; it keeps crilper and longer than Puff- 
Cruft for moft Ufcs. 

A iGrecn-Goofc Pie. 

1"^ A K E two fat Grecn-Geefe, bone them, 
' and feafon them pretty high, with Nut- 
megs, Cloves, Mace, Pepper ana Salt, and, 
if you like it, two whole Onions ; lay them 
upon each other, and ffll the Sides, arid cover 
them with Butter : Let them be well bak*d, 
*^nd they eat delicately hot or cold. 



To 



X04 A CoUeSihtt of Receipts 
To Tot Chcfliire-Chccfc. 

nr AKE three Pounds of Chelhire-Cheefe, 
-^ and put it into, a Mortar, with half a 
]found of the beft frefh Butter you can get j 
pound them together, and in the beating, 
add a Glafs or two of rich Canary, and half 
an Ounce of Mace, fo finely beat and fifted 
that it may not be difcern'd j when all is ex- 
tremely well mix'd, prefs it hard down intp 
Z Gallipot, cover it with melted Butter, and 
keep it cool ; a Slice of this exceeds all the 
Cream Cheefes that can poffibly be made, and 
i$ generally more acceptable. 

fTo make a Cold Hajb^ or Sallad- 

Magundy. 

> ■ 

np AKE a cold Turkey, two cold Chickens, 
-*• or, if you have neither, a Piece of fine 
white Veal will do j cut the Breafts of thefe 
Fowls into fair Slices, and mince all the reft; 
to the Quantity of two Chickens, you muft 
take eight or ten large Anchovies, wa(h and 
bone them, eight large pickled Oifter^, ten 
or twelve fine green pickled Cucumbers, 
fhred the Oifters, the Anchovies, the Cu- 
cumbers, and one whole Lemon, fmall ; mix 
them with the fhred Meat, lay it in the 
middle of the Pifli, lay the Slices of the 

white 



in Cookery, &cl 205 

white Part round the Difli, with halvM An-. 
chovies, ^ok pitklcd Oifters, quartered 
Cucumbers, flic'd Lemon, whole pickled 
Mulhroom§, Capers, or any Pickle you like ; 
cut alfb fome fine Lettice, and lay round 
among the Garnifli ; but put not Oil and 
Vinegar to the minc'd Meat, till it comes to 
Table. 

To Soufe a Turkey, in Imitation of 

"■■ Sturgeon. 

ft 

nr A K E a fine large Turkey, drefi it 
-*• very clean, dry^ and bone it, then tie it 
up, as you do Sturgeon j put into the Pot you 
boil it in, one Quart of White- wine, one 
Quart of Water, and one Quart of good Vi* 
negar, and a very large Handful of Salt 5 
let it boil, and fcum it well, and then put in 
the Turkey ; when 'tis enough, take it out^ 
and tie it tighter ; let the Liquor boil a little 
longer ; and if it wants more Vinegar or Salt, 
add it when 'tis cold ; pour it upon the Tur- 
key, 'twill keep fbme Months ; you eat it 
with Oil and Vinegar, or Sugar and Vinegar ; 
'tis more delicate thin Sturgeon, and makes a 
pretty Variety, if that is not to be had ; co- 
ver it with Fennel, when it is brought to 
the Table, 

Awry 



io6 A ColleSt'ton of Receipts 

A very pretty Way to eat cold hoiVd 

Beef. 

SLICE it as thin as 'tis poffiblc, flice 
alfo an Onion, or a Shallot, and fqueczc 
on it the Juice of a Lemon or twoj then beat 
it between two Plates, as you do Cucum- 
bers J when 'tis very well beaten, and taftes 
fharp of the Lemon, put it inco a deep Cfjina 
Bifli, pick out the Onion, and pour on Oil, 
ihake in alfb ibme flired Parfly, and garnifh 
with ificed Lemon ; 'tis very favoury and 
delicious. 

To make excellent Meat of a Hog's 

Head. 

• 

np A K E the Head and fplit it, take out 
^ the Brains, cut off the Ears, apd lay 
It in Water one Day, then boil it 'till all the 
Bones come OHt, then take off the Skin as 
whole ais you can, for that is to be laid over 
and under it : chop it fmall, as fail as you 
can, while it is hot ; fealbn it with Pepper, 
Salt, Mace, Nutmeg, or Jamaica Pepper, 
if you like it, inftead of Mace ; prefs it down 
into a Pudding or V^ifon-pan, lay the Skin 
over and under it, cover and prefs it down 
very clofe, and when /tis quite cold 'twill 
tuyi out, and cut as clofe as a Cheefe ; 
you may add Salt and Vinegar to fome of 
M the 



f 



*1 



» 

in Cookery, &cl loy 

the Liquor 'twas boil'd in, and keep it in 
that Pickle : 'Tis eat with M incgar or Mii- 
ftard, and is .better than Brawn, if the Head 
)Ou make it of be large and fat. 

^ very good Way to hep Tongues in 
fickle for Boilings to eat Hot or 
CoU. » 

I 

CLEAN them well, and rub them 
very dry, then lay them flat in a Tray, 
and fait them well with common Salt ^ lee 
them lie two Days, then beat an Ounce of 
Salt-pctre for every Tongue, and ftrew it on 
che Top of the Tongue ; let it lie two or 
three Days, and then fait it again with com- 
mon Salt, afcer this turn them often, and put 
frefli Salt when wanted ; thefe need never be 
dried, but kept always in the Pickle^ and 
^ boird, when you have Occafion, out of the 
pickle. 

r 

An admirable Pickle, in Imitation of 
India Bamboo, exaCily as that, is 
done. 

np A K E the largeft and youngcft Shoots 

^ of Elder, which put out the middle 

of May^ the middle Stalks are moft tender 

and biggeft, the fmall are not worth doing ; 

pwl 



idt A CoJk^ion of Receipts 

peel off the outward Peel or Skin, and lay 
them in a ftrong Brine of Salt and Water fot 
one Nightj and then dry them iri a Cloth^ 
Piece by Piece ; in the mean time, m^e 
your Pickle of hilf White-wine^ and half 
Beer-Vinegar ; to each Quart of Pickle you 
hiuft put an Ounce of White or Red Pepptr^ 
an Ounce of Ginger fliced, a little Mace, 
and a few Corns of Jamaica Pepper : wheii 
the Spice has boil'd in the Pickle, pour it 
hot upon the Shoots^ ftqp them clofe imme- 
diately, and fet the Jar two Hours before 
the Fire, turning it often ^ 'tis as good a way 
to green this or any other Pickle as often 
boiling, though either way is certain, if you 
keep it fcalding hot j always ufe Stone Jars^ 
for any Sort of Pickle, if they can be got ; 
the firft Charge is inconfiderable, and they 
do not only laft longer than Earth, but keep 
the Pickle better, becaufe Vinegar will pe* 
netrate through all Earthen Veffels, and Glaft 
will not bear the Fire : This is a very crifp 
pretty-tafted Pickle. 

To fickle Small Onions* 

T^AKE fmall Onions^ peel off the out-^ 
* ward Skin, and put them in Salt 
and Water all Night,, pour that away, and 
put a frelh Pickle of Salt and Water, made 
ftronger than the firft ; fet them on the 
Fire in this, and let themjuft boil, fcum 

them 



in Cookery, ^c. 2 op 

them well, and take them off the Fire, let 
them by to cool, and make a Pickle of \Vhite- 
wine Vinegar, Pepper, Mace, and a little* 
Ginger ; let all ftand to be coldj then dry 
the Onions from the Brine, and put them 
into the Pickle ; if you add Muftard-feed^ 
they will keep foiac Time : They tafte and 
look very pretty among green Pickles. 

7*0 fickle Cucumbers in Slices, 

np A K E thirty large Cucumbers, cut 
■*- them in Slices, but not too thin ; put 
them in a broad Pan, and lay with them 
fome fmall Onions pepl'd j let them ftand 
twenty-four Hours ; then put them into a 
Cullender to drain j boil two Quarts of 
Vinegar, with whole Pepper, large Mace^ 
and Ginger ; put the Cucumbers into a 
Jar, and pour the Pickle boiling hot upon 
tfiem, ftop them very clofe that Moment j 
fet them by for two Days, and then boil 
the Pickle again^ as before, till they are 
green'd. 

NotCy That they keep beft uiipar'd, and 
the whole fmall Onion may be kept in the 
Pickle with them* 






O Ai 



a I o A Colle^hn of Receipts 

Jn Incomparable Way to make Muftard^ 

TA K E a Quart of the beft Muftard- 
fecd you can get, let it be well dried, 
finely beat and fifted, then put to mix it, two 
Parts White- wine Vinegar, and one Sack, 
alfo one Spoonful of "double-refined Sugar ^ 
Hop it clofe, and 'twill keep a Year : If 
you are curious in your Seed, this Way of 
making it, gives a very agreeable Quick- 
nefs and Flavour, that is not fo dilgufting in 
the Breath, as when Garlick is kept in the 

To Ste^ Cucumbers to eat Hot. 

TAKE fix large Cucumbers, pare them, 
and cut them in Slices, not too thin, 
put them into your Sauce^pan, with fome 
Salt, and a whole Onion, not too large ; let 
them ftew in their own Liquor a little, 
then drain all that Liquor away, as dry as 
you can ; and put to them, when you have 
taken out the Onion, one Anchovy, two or 
three Blades of Mace, a Spoonful oif Gravy, 
and a quarter of a Pint of Claret ; when 
the Anchovy is diflblved, ftiake in a Bit of 
burnt Butter to thicken it ; 'tis a Sauce 
generally liked with Venilbn or Mutton, and 
is indeed very favoury ; fome People add 

Ale, 



in Cookery^ ^c. 1 1 1 

Ale, rather than Wine, arid 'tis very go6d, 
where Wine cannot be had* 

Ti) keep Artichoak Mottoms for Sduct, 

• 

'TP AKE your Artichdafcs ab&ut MichaeU 
^ masy they may b^ the fmaU Plant Sort ; 
boil them fo much, as to take off all the 
Leaves, and the Choafc ; then put them oil 
Tin Plates, and fet them into your Oveuf after 
your other things are out, when 'tis fo cool 
ias not to difcolour them in the leaft ; do this 
till they are very dry ; then put them into an 
Earthen Pot to keep ; tie them down clofc, 
and keep them in a dry Place ; when yoti, 
would life them, put them into Ibme fcald- 
ing Water, till they are tender, cut them iti 
large Dice ; they look white^ and eat very 
fweet all Winter* 

yb hep Muflirooms mthoUt ^ickUy 

for Sauc€i 

AKE large Muflirooms, peel them, 
and take ou( all the Infide, la,y them 
in Water fome Hours ; then ftew them in 
their own Liquor, and lay them on Tin 
]^lates, as you dq the Artichoak-Bottoms, in 
t cool Oven ; repeat it till they are perfeftly 
dry^ tie them down, and keep thcih dry as 
the other. I cannot find they will look 

O % white^ 



Ill A CoUeiiion cf Receipts 

^^hitCy take what care we can j therefore in 
the ftewing, I put ibme Mace and Pepper, 
fo they eat delicately, and look as well as 
Truffles. 

To Collar Veal. 

TAKE the Fillet of a fat Leg of Veal, 
bone it, and cut the Fat in Slices, to 
mix welU and roll up in the Collars j -make 
your Seafoaing of Pepper, Cloves, Mace, and 
Salt ; ftired alfo Lemon-Thyme extremely 
fmall, place the Pieces of Fat, knd ftrew the 
Seaibning, that it may be in all Places alike ; 
then roll it very tight, and boil it tender in 
half White- wine, and half Water, f^afon'd 
with Salt and Spice ; when 'tis enough, new 
jroll it, and keep it in that Pickle. 

A Ncat'5-Tongue Pudding. 

TO OIL a fmall NeatVTongue, before 'ti$ 
^ faked ; when 'tis enough, blanch it ; and 
when 'tis cold, flired or grate it extremeFy 
fine ; put to it a Penny Loaf grated, near a 
Quart of Cream, eight Eggs, but half the 
Whites, beat and ftrain the Eggs, then add 
a Spoonful or two of Sack, a little Salt, bea- 
ten Cloves, and Mace, and Sugar to yoijr 
Tafte ; a few Currants, and fome Citron Peel 
candy 'd j when you have laid a PufF-pafte in 
the Dilh, put in the Pudding j and then ftick 
all over with large Pieces of Marrow. 

frf)e 



in Cookery, &c. 1 1 j 

The hfi voay to make the Old Englifli 

Bread Pudding. 

/^ R A T E a Penny Loaf, all but the 
^^ Cruft, and pour upon it a full Pint of 
boiling Milfc j if you can get Cream 'tis 
better ; cover it, and let it ftand to icald ; 
for this Quantity beat up five Eggs, leave out 
two Whites, with a little Salt, and a little 
Sugar, ftrain this to the Bread and Milk ; 
when thatis pretty cool, grate in a little Nut-, 
meg, and mix all well j pour it into little 
wooden Difhes that have been butter'd^Khd 
are of a Size, tie them up in Cloths, very 
tight ; they require near an Hour to boil, 
when in Dilhes ; be fure to flour the Cloth 
you tie over the Difli, becaufe if you would 
have your Pudding very good, you mull 
make it almoft as thin as Cuftard ; and 
in the Spring, the Addition of Juice of Spi- 
nage, makes it as good as Tanly. 

French Bread. 

np A K E a Quart of Flour, and put to it 
-■* three Spoonfuls of Ale-yeaft, an equal 
Quantity of Milfc and Water warm'd j about 
the Bignefs of a Wallnut of good Butter, 
and a little Salt ; make them pretty light, 
and drop them on Tin Plates, fet the«D before 
the Fire to rife, and bake them in a quick 
Oven J rafp them : Some People put three 

O 3 Eggs, 



1 1 4 A ColkStion of Receipts 

Eggs, only one White, to this Quantity ; 
but I think Eggs make it tough, and not fq 
fliort 5 but that as you plcafe. 

An excellent Oatmeal Pudding. 

p U T into a Quart of Milk, juft warm, 
^ one Pint of whole Oatmeal, ypry care- 
fully pickM, let it foak at leaft two Hours ; 
then add to it a quarter of a Pound of ftone4 
Raifins, half a Pound of Currants, a little 
Salt, four Ounces of Sugar, and fujl half z, 
Pound of good Butter j if you bake i?, Mar^ 
loy^ on the Top is a good Addition j 'tis very 
good eitheF bak'd or boil'd. '' 

A Rice or Millet Pudding. 

npAKE fix Ounces of whole Rice, or 
* Millet-feed, tp this put full three Pints 
pf new Milk, rather more than a quarter of a 
yound of S^gar, a little Salt, and fix Ounces, 
or near half a Pound of Butter ; for, unlcfs 
you have Marrow, Butter is better in all 
thefe than Suet : I fpt down all thefe without 
Eggs, becjiufe they arc generally as well, if 
' pot better liked without ; but if you would 
have theni of the Cuftard fort, you may add 
from four to nine Eggs ; beat them well, and 
leave a little of your Milk to mix and ftraiu 
with them, 

A 



in Cookery, &c. 2 1 j 
ji Pancake Pudding, 

TP AKE a Quart df Milk, four Eggs, two 
-*• large Spoonfuls of Flour, a little Salt, 
and a very little grated Ginger ; Butter your 
Difli, and bake it ; pour melted Butter over 
it when it comes out of the Oven : 'Tis a 
cheap and very acceptable Pudding, being left 
ofFenfive to the Stomach than fry'd Pancakes. 

Puffs to Fry tnjiead 0/ Fritters. 

TPAKE a Pint of Milk, and mix as much 
^ Flour as will make it a Hafty-Pud- 
ding } take care to mix it with a little of the 
Milk at firft, and fo more and more, that 
when you fet it oh the Fire to thicken, it 
may not grow lumpy ; pour it out to cool, 
and then add to it three Eggs, a little Salt 
and Sugar, beat all in a Mortar ; fry them 
in good Lard over a quick Fire : They arc 
to be droppM fmafl, and will be round. 

Herb Dumplins. 

HP A K E the Crumb of a Two-penny 
-*■ Loaf grated, fift it through a Cullen- 
der,, take almoft as much frefli Beef-fuet, 
flired and fifted, put in Thyme, Sweet Mar- ^ 
joram. Savory, and as much Penny-royal 
as all the other Herbs together ; let all be 
%ed extremely fmall j put in a few Cur- 

O 4 rants 



B 



%i6 A CoUeSiion of Receipts 

rants neatly pick'd and walh'd, a little Salt, 
grated Nutmeg, and a Spoonful of Sugar, 
beat two Eggs, with two Spoonfuls of Sack, 
mingle all thefc ; rub a little Flour on your 
Hands, and roll thpm up as big as Tennis- 
Bails ; boil them half an Hour j melt your 
Butter with a Glals of Sack, and ftrew Sugar 
over them ; 'lis beft to let your Water boil 
before you put them in. 

An Almond Pudding. 

OIL a Quart of Cream, and when 'tis 
cold, j)ut to it the Whites of feven Eggs 
new laid, that they may be beat to a Froth, 
blanch five Ounces of fine Jordan Almonds, 
andf beat them fmall, with a little Orange- 
flower Water, then mix them with your 
Cream, and Whites of Eggs j make it pretty 
fweet with fine Powder Sugar, then lay on 
the Top fome thin Slices of Orange, Len^, 
and Citron-peel neatly cut ; take Care to 
bake it in a cool Oven, for when the Cruft 
is bak'd, 'tis enough ; you are to lay a thin 
Cruft in the Dilh, before you pour it in, and 
garnilh the Brim with the fame : This is a 
very delicate Pudding as can be made, and 
iiot very expenfive. 

» * To make Mackeroons. 

13 L A N C H and beat your Almonds, 
^ with Rofe or Orange-flower Water ; to 
f y^ry Pound of Almonds, put a Pound of 

fine 



in Cookery, ^c. 117 

fine Sugar, and the Whites of three large 
Eggs, beat to a Froth, put all to the Almonds, 
and beat it together v«ry well in your Mor- 
tar ; when 'tis fmall enough, make it fcald- 
ing'hot in your Pjfeferving-pan, then drop it 
on Wafer Paper, and bake it on Sheets of 
Tin ; be fure the Oven be not fcorching. 

u^ Lemon Pudding, 

ft 

nPAKE a quarter of a Pound of Almonds, 
-■^ blanch them, and beat them very fine, 
with Orange-flower Water, or fair Water will 
do, to keep them from Oiling as th ey beat ; 
when they are fine, put in half a Pound of 
Butter, three Quarters of a Pound of fine 
Sugar; then beat it again, and grate in the 
' Rinds of two large Lemonl^ and fqueezc in 
the Juice of one, and beat it again ; put in 
the Yolks of twelve Eggs, well beaten, mix 
it again extremely well ; put a PuflF-Pafte at 
the Bottom of the Difti ; put the Pudding in, 
and cover it with a Puff-Pafte ; three quar- 
ters of an Hour will bake it ; take Care your 
Oven be not fo hot to fcorch it : 'Tis a moft 
delicate Pudding, and a very exad and cer- 
tain way for either Orange or Lemon. 



'^/i 



2 1 S A CoJlefiion cf Receipts 
An Orange Pudding for Skins. 

TAKE the Rinds of twelve Seville Oranges^ 
boil them in Water, 'till they are very 
tender, and the Bitternefs almoft gone, the 
yizttt muft be Ihifted feveral Times ; then 
dry them from the Water, and put them into 
a Marble Mortar, and beat them pretty fmall, 
with half aPoiind of y(?ri^»Almonds blanch'd, 
putting in often Sack, and three or four 
Spoopfiils of Orange-flower Water j grate a 
Found of Naples Bisfcet, and a Penny white 
iiOaf, which you muft fteep in warm Milk, 
breaking it fometimes, for fear it fhould ga- 
ther into Lumps, when cold j put in twenty 
Eggs well beaten, leave out five Whites, 
take two full Pounds of Hog's- Lard, which 
you muft fcrape very fine with your Spoon ; 
put in a little Salt, and as much fine Sugar 
as will make it very fweet ; put all together 
when the Bread and Milk is cold, and mix 
it extremely well with your Hands, that the 
Fat be not in Lumps : This Fat eats as well 
as Marrow ; fill your Skins, and boil them 
with great Care. 

White Lemon Cream. 

TAKE almoft a Pint of Water, and the 
Whites of nine Eggs very well beaten, 
and the Juice of four large Lemons, or five 
if they are not large ; then ftrain it through 
a Jelly Bag, and put to it half a Pound of 

double- 



T 



<» Cookery^ &c. 219 

jdouble-refin'd Sygaiy, Ibeat and fifted ; fct it 

on a foft Fircj^and keep it cpnftantjy^ftirring 

all one Way, 'till ^tis as thick as Jelly 4 pour 

,t out quick. 
1 

A Rice White-Pot, very goody indeed. 

A K E one Pound of Rice, boil it in 
two Quarts of Milk, 'till 'tis thick and 
tender, then beat it very well in your Mor- 
tar, with three or four Ounces of blanch'd 
Almonds, boil two Quarts of Cream, with 
Crumbs of white Bread, and Blades of Mace 5 
put all together, with the, Yolks of eight Eggs, 
Ibme Rofe-water, and Sugar to yoiir Tafte ; 
when Vis in the Oven, lay in fome candy'd 
Orange and Citron-peels, cut thin in hand- 
fome Pieces : This is very good, and half the 
Quantity, or a quarter, makes a very pretty 
China Balbn full : Be very careful in the 
Baking J 'tis fbon fpoil'd, if too hot. 

Cream Flummery. 

AKE a Pint of Cream, three Spoonfuls 
of Rice Flour, very fine ground or 
beat, and fifted 'till it is fiiialL three Dunces 
of Sugar, and two Ounces of Almonds, beat 
fmall, beat with Ibme Spoonfuls of Milk, for 
fear of oiling, the Whites of three Eggs, 
beat ; ftrain the Cream and Eggs to the 
Almonds^ and i^^t it on the Fire, and ftir it 
all one Way, 'till 'tis thick and fmooth as a 

Cuftard : 



T 



220 A ColleBim cf Receipts 

Cuftard ; then pour ft into deep Glaflcs, that 
when 'tis cold, it may turn out in picked 
Shapes^ blanch and cut fome Almonds in 
Slips to ftick upon it. 

Currant clear Cakes. 

TNFUSE your Currants in a Stone Pot or 
•* Jug, that you may keep it clofe covered 
in a Kettle of Water, to boil till they are 
fender, then pafs them while they are hot 
through your Jelly-bag ; to a Pound of this 
Liquor, put a Pound of double-refinM Sugar, 
boiPd to a thick Candy, 'till 'tis almoft Sugar 
again ; then put in your Liquor, and make 
it fcalding hot, but it muft not boil • then 
put it into Glafles, the Thicknefs you would 
haye your Cakes of, and put them into your 
Stove, with a moderate Heat, 'till they are a 
ftrong Jelly J then turn them. out upon Glafs 
Plates,- fift a little Sugar on the Top of them ; 
keep them turned and ftoved 'till they are 
candy'd. White Currants and Pear Plumbs 
are done the fame way. 

Rasbcrry Cakes. 

NFUSE your Rasberries as you do the 
Currants, and let the Liquor run out; 
then put to the Pulp of the Rasberries as 
much or more of the Currant Liquor as run 
out of the Rasberries \ put the Weight in 
Sugar, and boil it to a Candy, exaftly as you 
did the other. 

Notej 



I 



Y 



in Prcferving, &c. iii 

Notty That the Seeds of the Rasberry ate 
not to be mix'd, therefore 'tis beft to Arain 
them thro' a thin flrong Cloth, that you may 
get all the Pulp, and leave only the dry Seeds 
hard prefs'd. Quinces and A pricot clea r Cakes, 
are made the fame way, only they are fcaldcd 
in fair Water, till tender, and not by Infu- 
iion, as this Imall liquid Fruit is. 

Rasbcrry-Jam. 

O U are to infufc your Rasberries as before, 
but muft be very careful to pick your 
Fruit from the dead and maggotty ones ; when 
they a/e tender, take out fome of their Li- 
quor, and put the fame Quantity of Currant 
Liquor to what is left ; put the Weight in 
Sugar, and boil it up together ; put it into 
your Glaffes, to eat with Cream all the Year. 
I believe this general Rule will never fail 
you, becaufe the Perlbn who lent it, excels 
in Sweet-Meats ; the Rasberry-Liquor that 
you take out, may be boil'd up for Syrup, 
which no Family fliould be without ; but 
fome Currant Liquor, put to the Rasberries, 
makes it Jelly ; fo that it looks better, and 
taftes quicker. 

To make Red Quince Marmalade in Jelly. 

CC A LD as many fair large Quinces as you 
^ would ufe ; then grate as many of the 
fmall ones, as will make a Pint or a Quart of 

Juice, 



121 A Colkdion of Receipts 

Juice, according to the Quantity you fliali 
want ; let this Juice fettle, after you have 
prefs'd it thro' a coarfe Cloth ; then ftrain 
it thro' a Jelly-bag, that what you ufe, may- 
be perfeftly clear j to every Pint of this Li- 
quor, put a Found and half of Sugar, and a 
Pound and half of the fcalded Quinces, 
which muft be par'd and cor'd, before they 
are weighed ; fet it all at firft on a pretty 
brisk Fire ; when it begins to boil, make it 
flower J and when you fee it begins to turn. 
Red, coyer it with a Pie^plate tied up in a 
Cloth J when 'tis a fine bright Red, take it 
off, and fill your Glaffes : You muft carefully 
watch the Colour, becaufe it turns muddy and 
black in a Moment, and the Colour is as de- 
licate as the Taftc, in this and all Sweets 
Meats. 

To ^referve Cherried. 

npO a Pound of Cherries, after they ire 
^ pick'd and fton'd, put a quarter of ^ 
Pint of the Juice of White Currants, (firft 
infus'd and pafs^d thro' a Jelly-bag) and the 
Weight of both Liquor and Cherries in dou-* 
ble refined Sugar ; fift your Stigar, and ftrew 
it as you put them into your Preferving-Pan ; 
boil and fcum it, till the Cherries look clear 
from the Scum ; then put them into your 
Glaffes : Some put in Gooftberry-Liquor lb 
ftrain'd ; but Currants are better, if they are 
White, and lull ripe* 



] 



in Prcfetving, ^c. 113 

A mofi admirable Way to Dry Cherries. 

TO every five Pounds! of Cherries fton'd, 
put one Pound of doiible-refiri'd Sugar ; 
put the Cherries into the Prefer ving- Pan, with 
z, very little Water ; make both juft fcalding 
hot, take them imrticdiately out of this Li- 
quor, and dry them ; then put them into the 
Pan again, ftrewing the Sugai* between every 
Layer of Cherries j let it ftarid to melt, and 
then fet it on the Fire, and make it fcalding 
hot, as before, which muft be done twice or 
thrice with the Sugar ; then drain them from 
this Syrup, and lay them fingly to dry in 
the Sun, or in your Stove ; when they arc 
dry, throw them into a Bafon of cold Water, 
and take them out again the fame Moment, 
and dry them with a Cloth ; fct them once 
more into the hot Sun, and keep them all the 
Year in a dry Place : This is not only the beft 
way to give them a good Tafte, but alio for 
Colour and Plumpnefs j I never ^ found any 
way lb certain. 

To Treferve Green Apricots. 

AKE your Apricots before the Stones 
are hard, put them into a coarle Cloth, 
with a large Handful of Salt, rub them well 
in it ; then put them into fcalding hot Wa- 
ter ; let them on the Fire, and keep them 
fcalding on a gentle Fire, till they are green ; 

then 



T 



/ 



124 ^ Colledion of Receipts 

then let them boil 'till they are tender ; put 
10 a Pound of Apricots^ a Pound of Sugar 
double-refin'd j boil your Sugar to a thick i 
Syrup J and when the Apricots are drain'd 
and cold, and the Syrup is cold, you may put 
them together ^ what you defign for Tarts 
ivill keep fome Time with half their Weight 
in finglc-refinM Sugar : When you are to 
boil your Sugar to Syrup, you may wet it 
more than when ''tis to Candy « 

To make Marmalade of ripe Apricots.. 

PARE, ftone, and cut your Apricots into 
thin Slices ; then to a Pound of. Fruit, 
put a Pound of double-refin'd Sugar, and a 
quarter of a Pint of ftrong Codlin Liquor j 
boil it as fall as you can, and when the Fruit 
it tender, and clear from the Scum, which 
you are carefully to take off, then fet it ofif 
the Fire, and break what pieces you think 
too big J then fill your Glaifes, and paper 
them when cold. 

To make a Marmalade of Orange-' 

Flowers. 

O I C K your Orange-Flowers,, Leaf hf 
-T Leaf, and then boil them tender, in as 
much Water as will quite cover them ; then 
take twice their Weight in double-refin'd I 
Sugar ; take a quarter of the Sugar, and beat 
with the Leaves in a Mortar : wet the reft 

' or 



I 

f« Prclerving, ^c. 215 

of the Sugar, and boil it up aUnoft to a Candy 
fleight ; put the Flowers into it, and ftir it 
in the Syrup, till 'tis well mix'd ; boil it juft 
up after 'tis mix'd, and fill your GlafTes ; it k 
may be tum'd out, and fiftcd with Sugar, 
and dry'd in Cakes, or kept in deeper Glafles^ 
to eat wet : A Spoonful of this gives a feic 
Flavour in Almond Cream, or Cream Flum*- 
mery, or any made Difh that waats Perfume. * 

To make Apricbt Cakes. 

HP A K El a Pound of your ripeft Apricots, 
-■ fcald them, peel them, and take out the 
Stones : then mafli them to Pieces with the 
Back of your Spoon ; then take half a pQUnd 
of dpuble-refin'd Sugar, aiid a Spoonful of 
Water, iboil it to a Candy jf then put in the 
Pulp of your Apricots^ let it ftand a quarter 
of an Hour on the Fire, and boil a little, ' 
ftirring it well ; then pour.it into fliallow flat 
Glafles, that it may calily turn out ; let it 
ftand two Days in the Glafles; then lay them 
on Glals Plates, ^ovc them, and turn them 
daily. 

Vou may do Quince Cakes thus, only al- 
low more Sug^r ; but if your Apricots are 
full ripe, this, by that time they are skinn'd 
and fton'd, is a fit Quantity, and will keep 
them all the Year. 



T^ 



2 16 A ColU&m of Receipts 

To Treferve Currants, Red and White; 

PIC K out aU the little Seeds with a QuiU ^ 
to half a Pound of thefe fton'd Currants, 
put a Pound of the Currant Liquor^ infus'd^ 
and pafs'd thro' a Jelly-bag ; and put the 
Weight of both in double-refui'd Sugar ; put 
all together into your Freierring Pan, boil 
them all together on a quick Fire, till they 
look clear, and the Scum has done rifing ; 
then put them intp your Glafles, and paper 
them dole. 

To ^refirve Grapes. 

SKIN and ftone your Grapes; and to 
every Pound, put a Pound of double- 
refinM Sugar, beat and lifted ; ftrew fbme 
between and over the Grapes, as you put. 
them carefully into your Preferving Pan, and 
keep out one quarter of the Sugar, to ftrew 
on them in boiling ; Cet them on a quick 
Fire ; cover them with a Silver or Earthen 
Plate ; flrew on the remaining Sugar, as they 
boil up J when t|iey look clear, take them 
off the Fire ; let it ftand off the Fire, cover'd, 
a little while ; then fcum them clean, and 
put them into Glaffes. 

To ZV^ Plumbs. 

TT AKE half the Weight of the Plumbs in 

-*- Sugar; boil it to a Syrup, not too thick; 

flit your Plumbs down the Seam, and put 

them 



In Prefer ving, ^c. 2x7 

tbcih into this Syrup ; ftt them on the Fire, 
and keep them fcaldin| hot, tiU they are 
- tender, and be fure to let the Syrup cover 
them, that they may keep their Colour ; let 
them lie 9 Day in this Syrup ; then make a 
thick Syrup of near the Weight in Sugar, 
tK)il'd almoft to a Candy ; when 'tis cold, 
drain your Plumbs out of the firft Symp, 
and put them into this ; they mul| alfo be 
cover'd with this Syrup, and fet on the Fire 
to fcald, till they look clear ; fet them by 
three Days in this laft Syrup ; then lay them 
on Glafs Plates, and dry them in the Sun, or 
your Stove, turning them often 5 if green, 
they muft be firft rubbM in Salt, and fcalded 
green, as green Apricots. 

jin excellent Way to Prefer te or Candy 
Orange or Lemon Peels. 

I^OIL the Peels very tender, fhifting the 
'^ Water four or five times in the boilings 
more or leis^ as you chule the bitterilh Fla«- 
vour; then put^ t^etn in Water two or three 
Days ; but if they arc well boilM, this laft Wa- 
tering is beft let alone, tho' 'tis the Diredion 
of a very nice Confedioner ; but I leave it 
to the Judgment of the Expwienc'd : Then 
take half their Weight in Sugar j and to each 
Pound of Sugar, put a Quart of Water ; boil 
and firum it Very clean ; then put in your 
Feels ; let them lie a Fortnight j heat them 

P a once 






x»8 ACoHefiion of Receipts 

once a Day ; then take a little more than 
half their Weight in Sugar again ; and to 
each Pound of this Sugar, put a Pint of Wa- 
ter ; boil this Syrup as before ; put in your 
Peels, and heat them, till they look clear, 
but never let them boil j you may keep them 
all the Year for Ufe in this laft Syrup, if 
you ibmetimes heat it ; 'tis beft fb formoft 
Ufes, as Apple-Picfi, Cakes, &c. but if you 
want it candy 'd, boil a little double-refin'd 
Loaf-Sugar to a Candy Height, and throw 
them in to boil up ; lay them, out to dry in 
the Sun, or in your Stove : Thus you may 
do Orange Chips. 

To make a pretty Sort (>f Lemon^puffs. 

TO a Pound of double-refin'd Sugar, fine- 
ly beat and lifted ; take. the Juice of two 
Lemons, beat them together in a Bowl ; and 
as you beat them, put in White of Egg, firft 
beat to a very high Froth, till 'tis white as 
Snow ; when you have , beat all together 
fome time, and put in the Quantity of Egg 
you defign, which muft be three at Icaft to 
every Pound of Sugar ; then add the Rind 
of two. fair Lemons, finely grated ; beat it 
till all is well mlx'd ; fift your Papers with 
Sugar, and drop on the Puffs in fmall Drops; 
you may add any Perfume you like^ but 
they are very good without. 



I 

in Paftry, &c, ijo 

To make Savoy Biskets. 

np A K E twelve Eggs, and leave out half 
* the Whites ; beat them up with a Imall 
Whisk ; put in two or three Spoonfuls of 
Rofe or Orange-flower Water ; and as you 
beat it up, ftrew in a Pound of double refin'd 
Sugar, that is firft beat and lifted very fine ; 
when thefe Eggs and Sugar are as thick and 
white as Cream, take a Pouod and two 
Ounces of the fineft Flour, that is dry'd, and 
mix it in ; then lay them in long Cakes^ and 
bake them in a cool Oven. 

Tofeafin a Venifon-Pafty, 

TF your Venilbn be the Side of a large 
^ Buck, you may take off a fine Neck to 
roaft ; then bone and skin what remains^ 
which will make as large a Pafty, as the 
whole Side of a Doc ; but if you would 
bake all the Side of the Buck, your Seafon- 
ing muft be an Ounce and quarter of beaten 
Pepper, and full as much Salt as twice the 
Bignefs of the Heap of Pepper ; rub all over 
the Meat, and then lay your Meat, of an 
equal Thicknefs, into a very large Soup- 
difh, without any Crufl at Bottom ; (for 
thus iiewing in its own Gravy, is a great 
Improvement upon the old-fafhion'd Way of 
a Bottom Cruft, and ftred Suet upon that, to 
Jseep it moift) : This full Quantity of Meat 

P 3 will 



2 3.0 A ColU&ion of Receipts 

will require near three Founds and a half of 
Butter to lay over it, ynlefs your Vcnifon be 
exceeding fat ; put a Roll of Fade quite 
round the Meat, tha( it may feive for Pud- 
ding-craft, and to faften the Lid to, which 
make l^iy the Rule in the next Receipt ; let 
the Lid be thick, and wet the infide Roll,, 
that you may clofe it fafi ; put what Orna- 
ments you plcafc on the Top j but the fewer 
there are, the better your Cruft will rife ; 
make a Hole on the Top, and pm in a quar-^ 
ter of a Pint of Water, jufl as it goes into the. 
Oven ; this will take fix Hours to be well 
foak'xl. The Bones and Skins muft be lea- 
fon'd, and put into a Pan juft cover'd with 
Wat;cr, and bak'd at the fame Timcj^ left the 
Fafty ffiould want Liquor. 

Nctey You muli, at Difcrction, abate of 
this Quantity of Sealbning and Butter, as the 
Venifbn is in Quantity ^ this is in full for the 
largeft Side. 

Pafte for the Pafty. 

npO feven Pounds of Flour, put three 
^ Founds and a half of Butter, and fix 
Eggs, leaving out half the Whites, which 
are apt to make the Cruft tough ; put in one 
Pound of the Butter,with the Eggs and Water, 
into the Middle of the Flour, (which Ihould 
be always of the fineft Sort) ; wet it pretty 
ftiff, then roll it out, and work in the Re- 
mainder of the Butter, by flicking it on in 

Bus, 



wPaftry, &e. i;i 

Bits, and fliaking on Flour ; fo double and 
roll) and ftick on more, till the whole is 
taken up. This for all Meat-Pailies is fat 
enough ; but if you make it for Fruit**Tarts, 
where the Cruft is to be very thin, you muft 
allow full three quarters of a Pound of Butter, 
and one Egg, to every Pound of Floun 

Icing for Tarts. 

np A K E a quarter of a Pound of fine Loa& 
* Sugar, beat it very fihe, and fift it ; 
put it into your very clean Mortar, with the 
White of one Egg, and two Spoonfuls of Rofe 
or Orange-flower Water ; ftir it all one Way, 
till your Tarts are bak'd, and almoft eold ; 
then llrifce them all over the Top, with a 
fmall Bunch of Feathers dippM m this Icing, 
and fet them into your cool Oven again, till 
they are hardened ; take care (hey do not 
grow dilcolour'd by Handing too long. 

To make Orange-Tarts. 

A K E twelve of the faireft Seville Oran- 
ges ; pare off the Rinds as thin as ^cis 
poflible, that ibme of the Yellow may remain 
on the Orange ; put them into fair Water as 
you pare them ; then cut them in halves, 
and fquee^e the Juice into a clean Bafbn ; 
flrill throw your Oranges into clean Water j 
when all your Juice is out, put to it half a 
Pint of fair Water ; cover it, and fet it by 
till you have boil'd your Oranges tender, in 

P 4 ^^ 



T 



13 1 -^ CoJkSim (f Receipt Sy &c. 

io many Waters a$ are requifite to take ofF 
the Bitternefs ; when this is done, take out 
the Skin, and ftringy Fart that is in the In«- 
fide, ftill throw them into Water ; then cut 
them into Slices, and dry them in a cleaa 
Cloth ; ftraih out the Juice and Water from 
the Seeds, which will be pretty chick, like 
Jelly ; put four or five Spoonfals into every 
Tart ; one Orange will fill a Tart j your 
Sugar muft be fine Loaf powdcr'd, and ^bout 
a Pound and a quarter will feafon the twelve 
Tarts ; when the Cruft is bak'd, they arc 
enough, and will look very clear; if. you 
like Apple, you may mix the Apple and 
Orange; and if your Oranges are not very 
juicy, you may add the Juice of a Lemon j 
thefe are a vety proper Tart for Winter. , 

?o nuake a gopd Ginger-bread without 

Butter. 

TAKE two Pounds of Treacle ; candy'd 
Orange, Lemon and Citron Peel, of 
each a quarter of a Pound ; as much candyM 
Ginger, all flic'd thin ; one Ounce of Carra- 
\vay-fced, and one Ounce of Coriander-Iced, 
with one Ounce of beaten Ginger ; mix in 
as much Flour as will make it a foft Pafte ; 
lay it in Cakes on Tin Plateis, and bake it in 
a quick Oven ; keep it dry, and it will be 
good Ibmc MonthSi 

' A COL- 



A 

COLLECTION 

F 

RECEIPT S 

1 N 

Phyjick and Surgery. 

PART II. 

ihe true Way of making Barbados 
Water. 

HOU miift pare your Citrons ex- 

i tremely thin, and dry theft Yel- 

i low Peels in the Sun, if poffible ; 

i then grate the white Part of the 

Citron, till you come to the Palp 

or Juice ; take this that is grated, and put it 

into a cold Still, and diftil as much of that 

fimple Water as you can draw off good 

with. 



i ; 4 ^ Colk^ion of Receiptt 

with a pretty quick Fire ; in the mean timev 
you are to put one Pound of thofe dry^d 
Feels into one Quart of Brandy, let it be the 
very beft you can get ^ when tbefe Peels are 
foakM enough^ put to each Qiiart of that 
Brandy, one Quart of Madeira Wine ; then 
diftil that Brandy, and Wine, and Peels, in 
a cold Still ; and put one Pint of the fimple 
Water to a Quart of the other ftrong Water ; 
make a Syrup of double-refined Sugar \ put 
to each found of Sugar, almoft three Pints 
of Water, and the Whites of three Eggs j 
let it boil, and then pafi it thro' your Jelly- 
bag, till, 'tis extremely fine ; put half a Pint 
of this Syrup to each Quart of the mix'd 
Water, more or lefe, as you love it for 
Sweetnefs ; and to each Quart, put a Bit of 
Alliim, as big as a Pea j when you fee it 
perfeckly clear and fine, rack it oflF into other 
Bottles ; and put into each Bottle Ibme of 
the Citron Flowers. 

I did with great Difficulty procure this 
Receipt fo exaft, becaufe either Lemons or 
Oranges do as well, and are very often what 
we want to difpofe of, when we have had 
Occafion to ufe large Quantities of the Juice ; 
and having try'd it, you may be convinced , 
that of frefh thick-rind I^emons, you may at 
anytime make a Liquor as good as they do in 
Barbados y efpecially where the Green-houfe 
affords you Orange or Lemon Flowers. 

3 J92 



i\ 



itt Phyfick and Surgery, i j 5 
Jn excellent Poppy- Watcr/(?r an Afthma. 

FILL a large Glafs full of frcfti Poppies ; 
pour to it one Quart of Hyflbp Water, 
one Pint of Damask Rofc Water, one Pint 
' of Penny-royal Water, and two Quarts of 
Compound BricMiy Water ; put in alfo eight 
Ounces of ftcm'd Raifins, four Ounces of 
flic'd Figs, two Ounces of Sugar-candy, two 
Ounces of Syrup of Maiden-hair, two Ounces 
of Syrup of Ground-Ivy, two Ounces of 
ilic'd Liquorice, Carraway- feeds, and Ani- 
feed, of each three Ounces brui^'d ; let thefe 
fiand fix Weeks in the Sun ; thcA ilrain it 
ofFj and when the Breath is very bad, drink 
four Spoonfuls ^ In Extremity you may mix 
half an Ounce of Oxymel of Squils with every 
Dofe. 

• _ 

J TIeafant Medicine for a Cough. 

pUT two large Lemons over a gentle 
-*• Fire, to coddle, as you do an Apple ; 
when they are loft, take them out before 
they burft, (which they will be very apt to 
do, if your Fire be fierce) ; cut them, and 
take out the Juice and foft Pulp from the 
Seeds, Strings, and Rtnd ; put to this Pulp 
four Ounces of Sugar-candy finely beat ; four 
Ounces of Oil of fweet Almonds, and two 
Ounces of Syrup of Poppies j mix all well 
together, and take a large Spoonful whenever 
your Cough is troublefome. 



'il6 A CoNeSiion of Receipts 



jtn eajy Medicine for a dry Husking 

Cough. 

T^RINK near a Pint of Spring Water, j3 

•*^ as hot as you can, the laft thing you ' 
do, going to Reft. 

This is recommended by" one whofe IntCr- 
grity may be depended on ; and tho' 'tis 
feemingly a trifling Prefcription, it has done 
very wonderful Cures. 

An admirable Medicine for the Piles. 

TAKE a Handful of the Leaves of Mul- 
lein, and boil it in a Pint of Milk ; 
fWeeten this with an Ounce of Syrup of Vi- 
olets, and drink it every Night, going to Reft, 
for five or fix Weeks, and it will certainly 
take away the Caufe. 

Lozenges for the Piles, as md in the 

Weft-Indies. • - 

TWO Ounces of Flour of Sulphur 9 of fine 
Sugar pounded, with Mucilage of Gum- 
Tacamahaca, and Red Rofe Water, four 
Ounces : Make it into Lozenges, and dry 
thfem before the Fire, or in an Oven, after 
the Things are drawn ; take about the Quan- 
tity of one Dram daily. This is a moft vfc 
luablc Medicine. 



Jn 



in Phy fick and Surgery^ 137 

' r 

Aft ExceJknt Remedy for the Stobc 

Cholick. 

TAKE, tlircc Mornings together, fix 
Spoonfuls of Milk-Water cold diftxH'd, 
and as much good White- wine j and before 
you drink it, flice a Spoonful of Ginger very 
thin J wet . it with fome of this Mixture, 
fwallow it, and drink the reft * after it j do 
this for three Mornings ; and the three fol- 
lowing Mornings, take two Spoonfuls of the 
beft 5allad Oil you can get ; ftrcw a little 
Sugar upon it, and fwallow it down, drink- 
ing after it a Draught of warm Ale, 
fweetcn'd with Honey ; take thele two 
Medicines interchangeably for nine Morn- 
ings together : This has been very often 
approved with admhrable Succeis in violent 
Fits. 

For a Cholick attended with painful 

Vomitings. 

T^ AKE a large Chicken, and fill it with 
^ Manna as full as^it will hold ; put it in- 
to two Gallons of Water, with a quarter of 
an Ounce of Mace ; let it boil as quick as pof- 
fible, till two or three Quarts be wafted, 
the Manna confum'd, and the Fowl boird 
to Rags J then ftrain it, and let the Patient 
drink at leaft one Gallon of it ^ and as faft 
2 ~ as 



138 A ColteSi'ton of ReceipH 

as one Porringer comes up, let him drink 
anc^ther, til^ it works downwards ; when he 
has drank all, and the Operation is oyer, let 
him take the following Julep. 

Hhe Compopng Draught for the 

Cholick. 

TAKE two large Spoonfuls of Mint- 
Water, two of Hyfterick-Watcr, one 
of Oil of fweet Almonds^ and one Ounce of 
Syrup of Diacodium ; if 'tis for a Man, add 
ten Drops of liquid Laudanum, and twenty 
Drops of Spirit of Harts-horh ; if for a Wo- 
man, only twenty Drops of Tindure of 
Caftor ; add alfb for either, two or three 
Drops of Oil of Juniper ; drink this Draught; 
and, under God, you may abiblutely depend 
on Ref^ and Eafe, and a fafe Cure ; for the 
Mannadoes fb gently make itsPaiTage, as, by 
Repetition, is fure to carry off that fliarp 
Humour that was the Caufe of this Tumult 
in the Bowels ; and then an ©piat may be 
fafely givtn, when this Operation is over ; 
but before, 'tis dangerous : I would very 
carneftly recommend this Method, becauie 
'twas thirty Years the fuccefsful PraAice of 
an excellent Apothecary, and given me as a 
very valuable Specifick on this OccaJSon, 



For 



: * 



* 



I' 



§H Phyfick and Surgery; 1 5 p 
For the Stone. 

TAKE Milkpcdesi and white Amber^ 
of each a like Quantity, finely pow- 
dcr'd ; half as much Nutmeg, finely grated j 
as much Chio Turpentine as will beat : Mix 
them in, a warm Mortar into a Mafs for Pills ; 
let your Millepedes die in White or Rhenifli 
Wine ; a little more Turpentine than all the 
reft weigh,^ is fufficient } take fafting the 
Quantity of five large Peas, in Tea, or any 
fuch Thing. 

Far the Cnvcl. 

TAKE half a Pint of Ale, boil it, and 
fcum it very clean j then fet it off the 
Fire, till you beat up the Yolks of two new- 
laid Eggs with "^one Spoonful of Honey j 
mix it with the Ale, when *tis cold enough 
to mix without curdling ; Drink this Draught 
nine Mornings. 

Tojtop a violent Bleeding mmediauly. 

r 

T% I P a Piece of black Bays in the fliarpeft 
^^ Vinegar you can get, and lay it to the 
Groin of the Patient ; as it grows warm, dip 
it again : It gives a fudden Check, and is 
the Praftice in the Wefi Indies^ among the 
Blacks, who are fubjetV to this Diftemper, 

and 



%^o AColkSilon of Receipts 

and often loft by the Violence of it : And 
this does feldom fail in Extremity. 

For a Loofenefs and Bloody Flux. 

TAKE the Yolks of two new-laid Eggs, 
and put them into a Glafs of ftrong 
Cinnamon Water, and sdrink it all ; Brandy9 
Rum, Rofa-lblis, or indeed any ftrong ipiri- 
tuous Liquor, will do as well as Cinnamon 
Water, and does very feldom fail : But I 
think fuch hot Things^ how well foevci* re- 
commended, Ihould never be us'd, but in 
the greatcft Extremity j becaufe chewing of 
Rhubarb is as certain, and carries off the 
Caufe ; and of all the fudden Cures, I pre- 
fer Fensce Treacle. 

An excellent Ah for the fecurv^y^ 

^i^ A K £ one Peck of Garden Scur vy-grafs ; ' 
-** of Water-creffes, and Brooklime, each 
four Handfuls j dry'd Fumitory, Ground- 
Ivy, Liverwort, Tops of Fir, and Tamarisk, 
of each two Handfuls ; Roots of fliarp-pointed 
Dock flic'd, four Ounces ; Horfe-^radiih 
Roots, Saffafras, and Daucus Seed, each one 
Ounce ; two large Seville Oranges flic'd : Put 
all, being gently bruis'd, into a Can^vas 
Bag, and hang it into fix Gallons of Ale ; 
when it is fine, drink a Draught in a Morn- 
ing, or at any Time in the Day : This was 

ordered 



T 



in Phyfick «»i Surgery ^ 241 

ordcr'd by Sergeant Barnard^ and is an in- 
comparable Ale for that Purpofe ; but where 
the Scurvy and Dropfy meet, and the Legs 
fwdl, if the Stomach can bear it, the Juices 
of the Herbs, with Sevtlle Orange Juice, arc 
a more fpeedy and .e£fedual Method. 

A very good Purging Diet-Drink for 

the fame. 

AKE new Wort, nine Gallons ; boil 
in it one good Handful of Fir, with a 
few Hops ; then ftrain it, and work it in thib 
Barrel, as for other Ale j then take Scurvy- 
grafs, Water-crcffes, and Brooklime, of each 
four Handfuls ; Harts-tongue, Liver-wort, 
of each two Handfuls ; Dock-root, and Po- 
lypody of the Oak flic'cl, of each two Hand- 
fuls ; Rhubarb, Gentian, Saffafras, and Sen- 
na, of each two Ounces : Cut your Herbs 
very fmall, and mix them all^ together ; 
flice in four Seville Oranges, and bruifc two 
Ounces of Carraway and Cardimum-feeds ;. 
put all into a Bag ; let it work together ; 
when it has been ftopp'd down a Week, 'tis 
fit to drink. 

For a Dropfy. 

AKE the Leaves of Afti-trees, as fboa 
a^ they begin to come out, and double 
diftil them ; give nine Spoonfdis of this Wa- 
ter, with one Spoonful of Muftard-ieed, in 

(i. the 



T 



24 ^ 4^ !QoJleiH(m of ^ceipts 

the Silonvi^ ; and at feur or five in the AlU 
t^moon^ give a SjpooDfol of Muftard-i^^ 
in th^e likq Quandty. of White^wine : This is 
recommended as never faili<3g. When the ] 

Bfftemper is. taJcen at firfti reft fiom taking i 

it for ten Dayi^i and theo b»in agaiiu h 

I 

^ mcjt meomparabk Spring Water to ^1 
fmeeten the Bbody and eafe all noan^ 
dring Tmns. 

TAKE the Leaves both of the Garden 
and Sea. Scurvy-grals, walh and pick 
all clean, of each fix Pounds ; prels out the 
jfuice of the Sea Scurvy-crafs j put alfo the 
Jai(;e of ^rook-lime, and Water-crcffes, of 
each one Qy art i of the beft Whiterwirle, one 
Gallon J twelve &z;//Z? Oranges J of Iriih and \ 

Briony-rpots flic'd, one Pound; Horfe-radifli 1 

Roots, two Pounds; Winter Bark flic'd, half 
a' Pound .; Nutmegs bruis'd, a quarter of a 
ifound ; let all thefc fteep four Days, and 
then diftil them in a Limbeck : Take fix 
Spoonfuls every Morning, and at four in the 
Afternoon* 

m 

An excellent Purging Elixir. 

7 A K E an Ounce of good Rhubarb j two 

Ounces of Senna ; half an Ounce of Li^ 

qijorice ; Junijier, Anifced, and Carraway- 

. ' feed, 




NT'"*' 



1 



in Phy/iej^ and Surgery* 24^ 

feed, of each half an Ounce j CocWncal, 
Myrrh, and ^afFron^ of each a quarter of an 
Ounce ; Raifins fton'd, two Ounces : Braife 
the Seeds, flice the Rlmbarb and Liquorice, 
and put all the Ingredients into a Quart of 
good Brandy, and half a Pint of Compound 
Briony-Watcr j I alfo add long Pepper, and 
Cinnamon, of each half an Ounce : When 
it has flood a Montl^ to infule, ftrain it out, 
and add half a Pint of the purging Syrup of 
Roies. Take fix Spoonfuls of this, when- 
ever you &ar a Fit of the Cholick, or find a 
Sicknefs and Loathing in your Stomach. 

A Syrup for an old Cough, and td 

eleanfi the Bread. 

^AKE Liquorice, and Maiden-hair, of 
each two Ounces j dfy'd Hyflbp, one 
Ounce ; Anrfecds, two Drams : Infufe all 
one Day and Night, in two Quarts of Spring 
Water,- Jet thcni boU <3in a foft Fire, 'till half 
be confum'd j ftrain it hard^ and put to it a 
Pound and half of clarify 'd Honey, and good. 
White-wine Vinegar, as much as will make 
it pretty Iharp ; then boil it again, 'till 'tis a 
thick Syrup ; keep it for Ufe ; and if you 
would add a grate&l Taftc, drop in three or 
four Drops of Oil of Cinnamon : This is not 
only fafe, but very highly recommended to 
be taken firft and laft. 

0^2 A mofi 



/• 



244 -^ ColU^'ton of Receipti 

A mofi excellent Proccfe in a Confamp-^ 

cion. 

Sibe Confervt, \\ 

Conserve of Hips, fix Ounces. 

fhe Milk'fFater. 

Take dry 'd Mint, one Handful ; Ground- , 

Ivy, three Handfuls j fix Nutmegs fli^'d ; i 

one Quart of Snails, clean'd and bruised ^ | 

diftil thefe in a Gallon of Milk, and a Quart 
of Wfaitc-wine. 

Tjbe Syrup. 

Take Balfam of Tolu, half an Ounce ; 
boil it in two Pints of Barley-Water, 'till 
half be boird away ; ftrain, and add to it as 
much Sugar, as will make it a weak Syrup* 

ftJbe Peroral Pills. 

Take Pill of Storax, and of Hounds- 
tongue, each half a Dram ; mix them, and 
make it into twelve Pills. 

TTt^e Purging Pills. • 

Take PHI Rufus, two Drams ; Salt of 
Tartar, half a Scruple ; Chymical Oil of 
Marjoram, three Drops ; as much Syrup of 
Rhubarb as will make it into Pills. 



m Phyfick and Surgery, 14 r 

Th Powder^ 
, - » 

Take Powder of Crabs^Eycs, one Ounce; 
prepar'd Pearl, a quarter of an Ounce ; 
white Sugar-candy, one Ounce ; mix thcfc 
afl into a fine Powder. 

^e X)ireSiions how to take AIL 

Take as much of the Powder as will lie 
on a Sixpence, in half a Pint of Afs's, or 
Cow'i Milk, and Barley- Water, every Mor- 
ning \ take as much of the Conierve, as a 
Chefnut, thrice every Day, and drink after 
it fome of the Milk- Water, fweeten'd with 
the Balfamick Syrup ; take three of the Pec- 
toral Pills^ going to Reft ; and repeat the 
Dofe, if your Cough difturbs your Reft ; 
and once a Week take four of the Purging 
Pills at Night j make ah Iffue in the Arm ; 
and once in a Month, or fix Weeks, take 
three or four Ounces of Blood away. 

This is fo fafe and valuable a Method, 
that I fliall only fay, that every good Judg- 
ment muft approve it \ and it was as highly 
recommended to me, as, on Experience, I 
find it deferv'd to be. 



0^3 An 



' 



1^6 AColUSiion of Receipts 

An Excellent and Jpprtmd Procefs for 
the Eyes, if the Rheum he violent^ l 
and they bane Specks. |^ 

TAKE Hemlock^ two Ounces ; ppun4 
it in a Wooden Bow], and add one Thim- 
ble full of BaV'falt, and aa much Bole^Armo- 
niack, as wiU ferve to fpread it on a thick 
Glothj lay it to the Wrift, and renew it cycry 
twelve Hours, as long as you have Occafion : 
If but one Eye is affeded, lay it to the con- 
trary Wrift. 

Red-Rofe Water, one Ounce j Tutty, and 
white Sugar, finely powder'd, of each one 
Ounce i &ake them well, and let it fettle, 
and waih your Eye with a fine Rag, three 
or four times a Day,. 

A mofi excelknt Salve for the fame 
^urpofe 5 nvhich will do without 
the other ^ when the Rheum is not fa 
violent. 

nr A K E of the beft Sallad-Oil, one Pbund ; 
^ Yellow Wax, twelve Ounces ; put^them 
on the Fire in a new Pipkin, ftirring the Wax 
'till 'tis melted; then add white Lead, half a 
Pound ; and let it boil half an Hour. ; then 
put in Myrrhjj finely powder'd, Olibanum, 

Maftick, 



\ 



in Phylick andSatgctyl. ^47 

Maftick, of each two Ounces ; Camphire, 
one Ounce ; each«of them by tl^eenlelves, ia 
the Order herd liimM, ftirhrig and mixing 
them well, before you put in the other : let 
all boil foftly, 'tin 'tis blackiih j ydu mbft j&r 
it all the time 'tis on the Ftr&, and alfo afteib 
'tis taken o£^ 'till it be cold eH6u|h to i^alte 
into Rolls, working it like Dbil^h : T4l% 
great Care in the well mixing, and that it be 
not over or under boil'd j 'tis to be apply'a to 
the T^niples, and behind tlie Ears, for the 
Eyes, to li^ there 'till it grows moift, and 
falls off It wlU keep a long tim.t, tnd il a 
f\yeet and clean PiaiOrer ; a moft^ ad(iiiral>le 
PliTolvent, and therefore good for SwelliDgl, 
as alfo for Cuts, and cures almoit ady Soils 
that does not need much draWiiig.. , i ^. 

Th?fe Receipts coft a Geft tinman fifeein 
hundred Pounds^ who hid them of a Jefult, 
Avho came from Roiney to cure his Daughter^ 
Eyes ; and they have been often try'd with 
great Succcfs : Value thefe as choice Re- 
ceipts* 

The Sum is fa confiderable, that I ihould 
not have mentioned it, if I had not receiv'd it 
thus, Word for Word, from a moft generous 
Contributor, whofc Veracity and Goodnefs 
make it perfedly unqueftionable. 

CL4 ^Oi 



jj^i AQJk&ion (f Receipts 



To draw out a Thorn. 

TAKE a little black Soaf), and chew 
fome Nut-kernelSy to mix with the 
Soap ; and lay it on to the Place grieved ^ 
repeat it ^tiU the Thorn comes out. 

For the Canken 

TAKE a quarter of a Pound of Honey ; 
the Quantity of a Wallnut, of Allum 
beat fine ; take Woodbine Leaves, Colum- 
bine Leaves, Briar Leaves, and Red Sage, 
Sorrel and. Violet Leaves, of each one Hand- 
ful ; two or three Sprigs of Rue ; ftamp all 
the Leaves ; ftrain the Juice, and boil it with 
the Honey and Allum ; icum it clean^ and 
wa£h the Mouth often with it» 



To draw an Impofthume out of the Ear. 

r 

npAKE Camomile, and burn it between 
-* two Tiles, and put it in a Cloth ; apply 
it as hot to the Ear, as it can be fuffer'd ; 
repeat it 'till you find Eafe. 

ji Medicine 






in Phyfick and Surgery^ 249 
jt Medicine for the Jaundice. 

TAKE Two-pcnny-worth of SaflGron, 
finely powder'd ; twice the Weight ia 
Turmericfc, finely powder'd ; a Nutmeg 
grated ; as much powdered Egg-lhell as will 
lip on half a Crown ; an Ounce and half x>f 
Sugar finely powderM and fifted ; mix all 
thefe Powders together^ and divide them 
intp three Parts ; and take one Part in nine 
Spoonfuls of White-wine, in the Morning^ 
falling 4 faft two Hours after it j do this for 
three Mornings. 

Another for the fame^ that is recom^ 
mended as never^failing. • 

• 

np AKE Cellandine, and Yarrow, of each 
-*• one Handful^ twenty Earth-worms, 
fcour'd in Aflies ; pound all together in a 
Stone Mortar ; put to them a Pint of Ale or 
Whitcf-wine ; ftir all together well ; then 
ftrain it, and let it boil ibftly, and put to it 
two Spoonfuls of the Powder of Harts-horn ; 
as much Saffron, frelh dry'd and powder'd, 
as will lie on half a Crown ; the Patient 
mufl drink nine Spoonfuls of it Morning and 
Evcping, being firft warm'd } do this for 
three Days. This Medicine is not pleafant, 
nor do I find one that is, except Steel Wine^ 
or Water, which, I think, is allow'd infal- 
lible. ' 

Avery 



1)6 A CotU^hm (fRefeipts 

A very good Drink for a Confumptive 

Cough* 

TAKE Ctomfrcy, and Msdh-mallow* 
roots, of each three Ounces ; let them 
be firft well dry'd J Scor2one»l'» and Orange- 
root candy'd, of each two Ounces ; cut all 
thefc very (ball ; mix them well together ; 
then divide them into feyeral Fans *) that iiy 
an Ounce in each Paper ; take a Quart of 
Spring Water, and put in one Ounce of thcle 
Ingredients ; let it boil gently ; then add a 
Pint of Milk, and let all boil sently, 'till it 
comes to a Quart j when 'tis cool, drink half j 
do this twice a Day for fome Time. 

For a Plcuritick Cough, or Tain i» 

the Side. 

TAKE two Ounces of Oil of Turnip-feed, 
new drawn ; the Syrups of Leiftons and 
Maiden-hair, each half an Ounce ; of Syrup 
of Violets, one Ounce ; beat all thefe with 
one Ounce of Sogar-candy ; take a Spoonful 
as often as you can, and be fure you mix it 
well when you take it, being apt to feparate. 
Note^ That Oil of Turnips, in any malig- 
nant Cafe, exceeds all other Oils that can be 
drawn \ and can always be had. 



/ in Phyfick and Surgery, iyf 

In a flrong Fit of th Afthma. 

n^AKE three Ounces of linfeed Oil^ 
: ^ cold drawn j one Ounce of the Syrup of 
Balfam of Tolu, fliook well together ; drink 
all) or ai) much of this as you can, fafting ; 
^twtU cau& a little Voniit, and perhaps a 
Stool ; but has often relieved, when Squils 
and Bleeding have fail'd } tho' Squils in 
Extremity are almoft a Specifick for that 
Piftemper. 

Lozenges for the Heart-burn. 

TAKE calcin'd Oyfter-fliells, as found 
on the Sea-coaft j let them be fo well 
wafii'd by Time, as to be as white within 
and without, as Mother of Pearl ; dry them 
well by the Fire, and let them be beat, and 
lifted as fine as 'tis pbffible ; with half a 
Pound of this Powder, mix half a Pound of 
Sugar well beat and fifted ; wet this with 
a Spoonful or two of Milk and Water, to 
make it a very ftiffPafte ; then mould them | 
into Lozenges neatly, and bake them very 
dry, in an Oven that is. not too hot, for fear 
of difcolouring them ; they do beft when 
every thing is drawn : This does fb effcftu- 
ally fweeten that four Humour in the Sto- 
mach, that caufes this Diftemper, that it 
not only prevents it, but helps Digeftion, 

and 



zii ACoUeSlion of Receipts 

I 

and iecures you from alt the ill Effeds that 
arc the Gonfequences of it ; and it was re- 
commended on the Experience of a very 
wcHTtby Gentleman, who had fuffer'd ex- 
tremdy, 'till this Specifick was difcover'd : 
And indeed this Medicine may be reafbn- 
ably fuppos'd to work the Cure *tis pre- 
jcrib^d for ; if we will be at the Fains to 
try its immediate Power over the fliarpcft 
Vine^» 

A Powder for the Worm-Fcvcr in 

Children. 

nPAKE Crabs-Eyes, and Corraline, of 
^ each two Drams j Cream of Tartar^ 
one Dram ; make all into a very fine Pow- 
der, and give as much as will lie on a Six- 
pence, three times a Day, in a Spoonful of 
Milk* Water, and drink two or three Spoon- 
fuls after it j if this does not keep it from 
being coftive, give Ibmetimes a Glider of 
Milk and Sugar j and if the Weaknefs con- 
tinues. Rhubarb fleep'd in fmall Beer, drank 
conftantly for three Weeks or a Month, will 
certainly effeft a perfed Cure, and ftrcngthen 
as well as fweeten the Blood : This Powder 
muft he taken at the Full and Change of the 
Moon. 



fhi 



1 



in Phyiick and Surgery, 25 3 



*tbe Milk-Water^ proper to' take mtb 

the Powder, 

TAKE ShcU-Snails bruis'd, one Quart ; 
Earth-worms, one Pint ; Ale-hoof, 
Bctony, Penny-royal, Sage, Mint, Scabious, 
of each one Handful ; Comfrcy Leaves and 
Roots, two Handfuls j Foxfem-roots, two 
Handfuls ; fix Whites of Eggs ; a Gallon of 
New Milk ; a Quart of Canary : Bruife the 
Herbs, ilice the Roots, and diftil all in a 
cold Still i fweeten it with Sugar-candy^ 

A good Drink in the Rickets. 

np A K E Currants, and Raifins of the Sun 
^ fton'd, of each one Handful ; Maiden- 
hair, Yarrow, and Speedwell, of each one 
Handful ; a large Handful of Liver-wort ; z 
Handful of Dragons Leaves ; nine Leaves 
of Harts- tongue ; a Spoonful of Anifeeds, 
and an Ounce of Liquorice flic'd ; boil all 
thefe in three Quarts of fmall Ale, 'till half 
be confum'd ; then ftrain it, and put it in 
little Bottles^ and drink a Draught of it every 
Morning, and at four in the Afternoon. 



j^ihtr 



' 



254 A CoUeBkn cf Receipts 
Another for the Rickets. 

TAKE of French Barley, ooe Ounce ; 
Buds of Fern, two Ounces j of the 
Leaves of Agrimony, Liver-wort, Harts- 
tongue,' Berony, Maiden-hair, of each of 
thefe half a Handful ; Raidns of the Sun 
fton'd, ooe Han$|lful j eight Figs ; Liquorice 
flic'd, half an Oance ; Anifeeds bruis'd, one 
Ounce : Boil thefe in three Pints of Spring 
Water, 'till a third be wafted ; ftrain it, and 
mix with it an Ounce and half of Sugars 
candy, and ten Drops of Spirit of Sulphur : 
This Medicine feldom fails, if you give four 
Spoonfuls twice a Day, 

An admirM Method for Convulfion. 

Fits. 

• 

npAKE Onions, and black Pepper, of 
-^ each a like Quantity ; ftamp both pret- 
. ty finall, and lay it to the Soles of the Feet ; 
keep it on fcven Hours j while the Party is 
in the Fit, force them not to take any thing, 
but anoint the Wrifts, the Palms of the 
Hands, and the Temples wich Mithridate, 
if ^tis a. Child ; and Spirit of Amber, if a 
Man or Woman : Between the Fits, give 
Black Cherry- Water, fwccten'd with Syrup 
of Male-Piony, and Syrup of Clove July- 
flowers J and for a Week after the Fit, give 

this 



i 
i 



mPkylkk 4«i Surgery, ifj: 

ttii conftancly twice a Day ; let it wear a 
Neckkce of Male Piony-root about the 
Neck. 

JmtheY for Convulfions* 

GI V E the Child five or fix Drops of 
King's Drops, or Spirit of Harts-horn^ 
in two Spoonfuls of Black-*Cherry Water, 
fweeten'd with Syrup of Malc-Pioay j re- 
peat this whenever you fee it coming, and 
twice in a Day, before and a&er every 
Chan^ of the Moon ; purge the Child once 
in ten Days, or a Fortnight^ with a Spoon- 
ful or two of Syrup of Rhubarb, or with 
Manna, after this Method ; take an Ounce 
of Manna, diffolve it in ' four Ounces of 
Barley- Water ; ftrain It, and give the Child 
two Spoonfuls at a time, every t^iird Hour, 
'till it begins to work ; then defift, and 
give thin Chicken-Broth, or Water-Gruel, 
in the working ; the Child may purge thus, 
before the Drops are given ; if the Child 
fiart, or grow pale, that jou apprehend a 
Fit, lay a Bliftcr behind and below the Ear, 
and give it a Glifter of Milk and Sugar, 
with a very few Camomile Leaves, and Ani- 
feeds, and put as big as a fmall Nutoieg of 
Diafcordium, into the Glifter ; then ftrain 
and give it ; when you purge with the Man-- 
na, add to it one Ounce of Oil of fweet Al- 
monds, newly drawn, which be fure to mix 

well 

3- 






25^ ^ ColkSiiott of Receipts 

well with the Barley^Watcr and Manna, that 
it may work off finoothly^ and take off all 
Gripmgs. 

An admirable Powder for any Sore 
Mouth, Thrufli, or Canker. 

TAKE of Red Sage, Red Fennel, Plan- 
tain, Woodbine, and Rue, of each one 
Handful ; and of Allum, four Ounces ; ihred 
the Herbs, and beat the Allum \ then heat 
all in a clean Shovel ; keep them continually 
fiirring j and when they are very well 
mix'd, and ieem quite dry from all Juice^ 
fpread them to cool ; and when they arc 
cold, beat them to a very fine Powder, 
which you muft lift j you may ufe it dry, 
or mix it with Honey. 'Tis recommended 
as infallible, to cure any Sort of Sore 
Mottctu 

A mofi Incomparalle Salve, to hreak \ 

ii»y Swelling, and heal it -^ and good \ 

for a Bum. 

TAKE a quarter of a Piiit of Sallad Oil, 
or, for Want of it, as much unfalted 
Butter ; five Ounces of the beft Turpentine, 
fix Ounces of Honey, three Ounces of 
Bees-wax, two Ounces of Rofin ; put the 
Turpentine, Rofin, and Bees-wax, and 

Honey, 

5 



T 



in Phyficic and Surgery, i^y 

Honey, into a new Ptpkin^ dhd let them fitn-^ 
liier together^ ^cil] all be melted; then puc 
in your Oily and let all bdil togetbei' a little 
^hile foftly ; then p\it it into Jots fbr Ufe. 

This was fent as a very choice rie'ceflary 
Salve for all Families, and almoft for att 
Ufes : And indeed I have feen almoft a mi-^ 
raculous Cure on a very bad Breaft b^ thii 
alone ; and therefore am obliged to do it this 
JufticCi 

For Sore i^ipplcs, dr kibe Wecfls. 

A K E a Pint of the beft SaDad Oil^ half 
a Pound of Red Lead, one Ounfce of 
Red Sealing-wax, and an Ounce of Rofin, 
fix Ounces of Bees- wax 5 put all thefV toge-^ 
ther, and let them boil to a Salve \ as fbon as 
ever it turns bladk, ^tis enough ; theh put it 
out prcfently, or 'twill be too hard : When 
you ufe it, you muft melt it, and anoint thei 
Place grieVd, with your Finger, ipread it oft 
a Cloth^ and keep a Flaifter on it : This may 
be very good ; biit t thiiik nothing io effect 
tually cures Kibe Heeb, as doinjg them with 
Camphirii^'d Spirits, before they break. 

Ho Camphirize Spirit of Wine- 

PtJT four Ounces of Camphire into ^ 
Quart of highly-reaify M Spirit of Wifte j 
itx, it in the Suii, and always keep it clofe 
ftopp'd \ as foon as 'tis 4flbly'd, 'tis fit 

R aliQoil 



i^Z J Collision of RectipH 

^mofi for all Ufes, as Kibes^ GhilbLains^ for 
HeacUacbes, many Sorts of Sores, that wane 
4rying ; therefore i% Ibmetimes diffi:>ly'd \a 
good Huogary-Water : It ought always to be 

io a Family. 

* 

A good Sdwzfor Sdre t^ips or Nipples. 

TAKE twb Ounces of Bees-wax, a» 
much, gdod Salkd Oil ; iet it over the 
Fire, colour it with Alcany-roots ; when 'tis 
boil'd, and of a fine Red^ ftrain it, and drop 
xaSix-penny-worth of Balfam of Peru ; then 
pour jtioto the Bottoih of Tea Cups^ that it 
may come out in little Cakes, 

Another for the fime. 

TAKE four Ounces of freih Beef-m^- 
row^.or flaked Butter, threie Ounces 
of Virgins*wax^ Akany-rqots half an Ounce,, 
a^ much Stoiraxy and^ as much Gumben, 
90^ £yiced pippin, b^lf ai) Opnce ofl^af- 
fugar, fix Spoonfuls of ^Claret, and four of 
Sack) let aU Ijoil 'tjjl it is of a good Colour ^ 
i^Vk poutjt iA);oCu|)s to cool; and when yon 
take them out, dry the BcHtoitns of theCalkea 
from the Liquid Part. 



I 
I 



< » K 



, ^/)re«j; Medicine /)r Sore Nipples. 

I' N FJ US E Quince-feeds in White Rofe^. 
Water, *tin it is a Jelly ; ftrain it thro* a 
Mufli^, and wUh the Sor* J?«ct oft«n with it. 



it 



tn Piiyficic andS^i^ttj. 1^ 

Ah Ointmeftt for ih Piles, fWbeii ' 
Simir^ and Tainful. ' \C 

INFUSE Eldfcr-flowers in Linfted 6|j | 
'' •* let them ftand in the Sun 4. Mombj- t^f^i 

firaiii it, and take two Spoonfuls of this Oil, 

, an Ounce of Bces-Wax, half an Ounce of 

p^„ Turpentine, the Yolk of an Egg ; beat all 

•^ together iii a Mortar ;, Ipre^d it. 6n,a Ciidtbi 

and apply it to the tiles. 

' Andthef fit ih^fhm 

^AKE an Ounce oif \lTans-Miiitv^^ 
^ Ounces of Linfeed pil, half ih Mm 
of Cathphire,, ind as touch Spetifi^-d^fti 
atid one Dram of Oil of Ariibc^^; itiAt tUhU 
together^ and fpread it on f laifters,; , wh^i 
you arc in Pain, both thefe are very good' ^ 
but the moft effe€hial way to prevent 
comiiig to Extremity, is, to keep.t&e' 
always open with Lenitiie EkQxactyj 
Mower of Brtmftone, Syit^p 9F Ilo^^ 
itij gentle cooling Medicines $« amongr wMdi 
Number, ftew'd Prunes, tho' out gf FatHhidni 
muft riot be defpis'd. .... 

For an Apopledtick Paid in the Hcaaw 

BE AT Ground-Ivy, and ftram oitt \h^ 
Juice J put to this a Spoonf^ of ^owaec 
of Marum, but not enough to thicken the 

Juice ; then- take a Leaf of Tobacco,; auj| 

R A- vr«S 




T 



16 o A Colkiiion of Receipts 

wet it very wet in this Juice, roll it up in 
Pellets, and put it up your Noftrils ; as faft 
as it hardens, put up a frelh one ; 'twill give 
l^efent Relief, and is much better than a-" 
ther liquid or dry SnufF. ' 

An Incomparable Medicine for the 
Scutvy in the Teeth. 

Ik 

AKE a Quart of good White- wine Vine- 
gar, beat a Piece of Steel red hot, and 
quench . it eight of ten times in the Vinegar, 
as &ft as you can heat it ^ then add to this 
Liquor an Ounce of powderM Myrrh, aiKl 
half an Ounce of Maftick powder'd j wafli 
yourTeqth twice or thrice a Day. 

A certain and immediate C)urc for a 
,, . Bmife. 

' - • » • 

jtyfAKiE a.Poultis of Bran and Urine, 
^^ apply it as hot as you can bear it j if 
'tis very bad, repeat it as It cools, and do it 
as^Ibon* as you can, to prevent its fwcUing, 
which tlie Air is apt to occafion. 

To Cure Dcafnefs and Noife in the 

Head. 

ipUTf your own Urine into a Pewter- 
* Difli, and cover it with another ; then 
put fpme Coals under ^ and when 'tis hot, 
bnilh off the clear Water that hangs on the 

upper 



tn Phyfick . and Safety. ^6 1 

upper Diih with a Feather, zhd drop it into 
the Ear ; This has done great Cures. 

^Mouch-Water to Cure 4 Cankcn 

np AKE of Juiee of Sage and Honey- 
^ Suckle, of each fix Spoonfuls ; of White- 
wine Vinegar, two Spoonfuls j Roch AUurti, 
one Ounce ; take doable the Weight, of jthp 
whole in Honey j boil it to a thick Syrup j 
Ipum it very clean, and when 'tis coid, put it 
tip for your Ufe : This, with Syrup of JVIul- 
berries, is good for any fore Mouth. 



- (. 



» ■« t 



T 



A good Cere-Cloth. 

AKE a Pint and half of Sallad^pil, 
half a Pound of Red Lead,.a^quarter 
of a Pound of White Lead, a quarter -of *st 
Pound ofCaftleSoap, i wo Ounces pfBccs4 
wax, two Ounces of Oil of Bays, two Ounces 
of Barrows-greale j bqil the I^ca'ds in •the 
pils, 'till they look brown ; then put in the 
reft, keeping it ftirring 'till it works j then 
make it into Rolls, firit oiling your Hands: 
This Ihould boil five Hoursl 

r 

A mofi admif^hfe Balfam, for outward 
or innsoard Sores, FiftuU's, Ulcers, 

TAKE an equal Quantity of Linfced and 
Sjillad Oil } to three Fints of this put 

It 3 pn^ 



^4t ^CoikilUhn of Rgcitpti 

one Found of GhtQ Turpeotiae, well wafli'd 
in Red Rofe*Wa(cr» half a Pound of Red 
Sanders, half an Ounce of Maftick^ half an 
Ounce of Cochineal, tialf a Pound of good 
Yellow Bees- wax, one Pint of Spirit of Sack ; 
thcfe muft fimmer over a flow Fire, 'till 
all ^Tt incorporated ; then keep it clofe 
ftopp'd for your tJft : Half this Quantity j 
vill laft m2^i>y Yegirs* \ 

. I could notj in Gratitude to the Gcnerouei 
Communicator, and jufticc to the World, 
omit inferting this \ becauie it promifes Mir 
racles in all inward Ulcers, as it does out-? 
wjurd, if anointed ; but as (q my own parti- 
cular, I believe^ no Balfam that was evex 
made, exceeds that called ^he JRry^r's Balfam^ 
in the firft Part of this Book,: You may tai^c 
^hc Bignefs of a Nutmeg of this, a.lway5 
failing ap Hour before and after. 

A Tincture of the Bark. 

np A K E an Ounce of the fineft Bark you . 
^ can procure, put it in large Pieces^ tq 
four Ounces of Spirit of Sal- Armoniack j let it 
be clofe ftopp'd, and fet it in the Sun, or warm 
Embers, a4 Hours; then pour itoflf clear, and 
keep it for Ufe. It is to be given in Agues, 
or Fevers, from ten to forty Drops, accord- 
ing to the Age and Strength of Man, Wpman, 
or Child, in \yine and Wat^r ; it uiuft be 
Repeated every four Hours, as other Dofes 
of the Bark. Here I api oblig -d tp make a 

moft 



s 



m Pkynck and Surgery, t^i 

moft grateful Acknowledgment for this Re- 
ceipt, which I tikfi to be the fafcft and m&& 
efl^ual Medicine that was ever .publiih'd to 
the World, * 

A Draught of the Salts in a Fever. 

TAKE Black Cherry Water, two Ounccil ; 
Compound Piony Water, one Ounce i 
Salt of Harts-horn, one Scruple ; Salt of 
Wormwood, half a Dram j Salt of Ambeif, 
three Grains ; Spirit of Sulphur, fifteen Drops ; 
take this Draught every fix Hours, 'till you 
have taken eight or ten Draughts : This has 
^donc very great Cures without the Bark^ 
where the Fever is occafion'd by a great Cold ; 
itfweetens and cools the Blood, and revfves 
the Spirits and Head to Admiration. 



p 



AverypUafmt Poflfet #» a Feyen 



U T two Ounces of Pre(^rv^d Barberriej^ 
into one Quart of Milk j l^t it boii, m^T 
ilrainit^ drink when you are thi^ily, 

A Milk- Water, for a Hooping-Cough, 

TA K E of Ground-Ivy, Rofemary, and 
Hyffop, <A each one Jiandful ; diftil 
them in a Quart of new Milk, and let it 
drop on a quarter of a Pound of Sugar-f 
candy : Take a Spoonful Nig^t and Morn-* 
, jng, and ^ oftea as you plpjrfe, 

R 4 A^ 





2^4 ACiolkdion of RsceipH 

An excellent Remedy for a Sore Throat, 
which, taken in 'Time, will prevent 
a Quinfcy. 

TA K E five Spoonfuls of Syrup of Elder- 
berries, and tni;^ 'with one Spoonful of 
Honey, arid as much Salt Pruncl (in Pow- 
der) as will lie on a Shilling : Take a Tea- 
ipoonfulof this as often as you can. 

For ConvLilfion Fits. 

GET a Dozen of Live Moles, >yhen 
with young j ftick them with a Knifp 
jn the Throat, 'till they are dead ; then open 
them, and take out all the Iptrails ; pu|: 
them in an Earthen Pan, and by Degrees dry 
them in an Oven, 'till they are fit to pow- 
der ; then powder and fift them thro' a fine 
jsieye ; give the Child as much ^s will lie on 
^ Half Crown, ii/ Black-Cherry Water, once 
in three Hours, for three times j then every 
Night going to Reft, for three Times. If 
you fear a Return, give it three Nights be- 
fore the Full and New of the Moon. 
• I dare fay this is an approved Receipt, be- 
paufe I had it from a very choice Hand ; but 
I ihould fear 'twould be impoifible to make a 
•young Child take fo much of lb loathfpme z, 
Thjfig |§ \^vi Powder muft iiecds be. 




' V f »• 



> 



in VhyCick and Sat getyl i^j 
Another for the fame. 

^'T'AKE half a Pound of the Roots of 

* fingle Piony, flicc them thin, four 

Dunces of Gentian- Root flicM thin, a Peck 

of Juniper Berries bruis'd, Cummin-feeds, 

Coriander-feeds, Carraway-feed, Pine-feed, 

iSrommile-feed, of each two Ounces bruis'd. 

Sage, Pimpernel Roots, Rue, Rofcmary, 

Balm, ofeach twoHandfuls, d good Quantity 

ef Clove July-flowers, Lily of the Valley, 

Sage-flowers, if they can be got, Rofcmary- 

ilowers you may always keep dry ; add a 

Hapdful of each of thefej Cloves, Ginger, 

Nutmegs, Gallingal, Cardimums, Cubeb^ 

of e^ch two Drams, bruife them ; then take 

-a Handful of dry'd Betony-rflowers, . half a 

^ JIahdful of Egrimoriy, chop all thefe Herbs^ 

. and pgj: them in to ftcep in three Gallons of 

Ate/ not too new ; let it li^ one Night or 

better in Steep ^ then diflil it, and draw it 

. 4own pretty low, fo mingle fmall and ftrong 

together ; if it be too ftrong for a little 

Child, put to a Spoonful of this Water one 

Spoonful of Biack-Chcri'y Water- 

J Salvp fof a lyuptprc. 

ME L T a Pound of Dcer-fuet, gnd put 
to it a Handful of Solomqti'feal, as 
much Comfrey-roots, and as njuch Moufc- 



_«. .* 



%66 J Colh^nm ifRectipU 

ear, ftamp all the Herbs and Roots ; ftrain 
and boil ihem vrith th'e Suet } when 'tis well 
wux*d, andconfum'd to half of the Quantity, 
then add four Ounces of Adders-fpcar, and* 
an Ounce of fine Bole- Armoniack, well pow^ 
d«'d and fifted 5 mix all, and keep it for 
Ufe : Whctt you lay it on the Part, bind it 
hard. For a Rupture in the Throat, lie air- 
ways in a Neckdoth tied hard. 

An excellent Way to make the Purging 

Syrup q/ Roles. 

TAKE Damask-Rofes, before they arc 
foil blown, cut off the White, then 
pour upon them two Quarts of Succory 
Water boiling.; let this infofe in the Embers 
an Hour ; then ftrain it very dry^ and pour 
that Liquor upon as many more Rofes, fo 
ctit, as it will cover ; let this infofe as be. 
fore ; then ftrain it, and to every Pint of 
this Liquor, put near two Pounds of Sugar ; 
'tis the beft Purging Syrup, for ahnofl all 
yfcs, that is made. ' 

4 very good Elcduary/of an Afthma; 

TAKE four Cloves of Garlick, roaft 
them 'till they are foft ; then bruift 
out the Pulp, and put it into fix Spoonfuls 
of Honey, two Spoonfuls of the Powder of 
Elecampane; of Liquorice, Anifccds, arfd 



» 

h Phylkk and Surgery. %6^ 

Coriander-feeds, all finely powder'd and 
fiftedy oi^e $poqn&l ^nd a half* mix al] well 
together, and take the Bi^a^fl of a Nutmeg; 
Morning and Night. 

ji m&ft Jneomparabh Steel Elcduary^ 

TAKE two Ounces of Confcrve of 
BroQk*lioie, Confer vc of Water- creffcs, 
^nd Scurvy-grals/ each twp Ounces ; tho 
• yellow Rind of a Sevilk Orange grated, two 
large Nutroeg? grated, and an Ounce of 
Prepared Ste?l ; mix up all with Syrup of 
. Poppies, and take the Bignefi of a Wal- 
nut in the Morning, and zt five in th; 
Afternoon* 

A titttr TloAure for a Pain in tbt 

Stomich. 

T^AKE a Handful of Roman Worm- 
wood, as much Ground-Ivy, two 
Drams of Gentian, one Dram of Gallingal-p 
toot, four Ounces of the thin Yellow Rind of 
Orapges, one Dram of Cardimums the lelS| 
Saffron one Dram, Cochii^eal one pram j 
• infufc all thefe in one Quart of Brandy, fe| 
them in the Sun, or in warm 'Embers, 'till 
^tis well tindur^d ; ^xvn it, and take , one 
Spoonful in a, Glafs of any Wine : 'Tis an in* 
cofnparable Bitter. 



X 



i6Z A ColhSihn of Receipts 

ji Medicine for any we that has heen 

lit by a Mad ^og, 

TAKE a Handful of the Herb call'd 
Ladies Bed-ftraw, bruifc it in a Mprtar j 
then roll up the Leaf and Juice, with a Lump 
of Butter, and make the Party fwallow it. 
*Tis fcnt me as ah immediate Cure for Man 
or Beaft. 

A wry good Way to prevent /^^ Nail 
growing into the Toe. , 

IF the Nail of your Toe be hard, and apt 
to grow round, and into the Corners of 
your Toe, take a Piece of broken Glals and 
fcrapc the Top very thin, do this when- 
ever you cut your Nails, and by conftant 
Ufe, it makes the Corners fly up, and grow 
flat ; fd that 'tis impoflible they IJioijld give 
you any Pain, 

To make the . Hair grow thich 

Tp A KE Rofemary, Maiden-hair, Sou- 
* thiern-wood, Myrtle-Berries, Hazel- 
Bark, of each two Ounces ; burn thefc to 
Aflies on a clean Hearth, or in an Gyen j 
put thefc Aflies in White-wine, to mak^ a 
ilrong Juj^^ and w^flx the Hair daily a^ 



1 



in Phy ficjc and Snrgcty. i6p 

the Root ; keep it cut pretty fliort : It kifl^ 
the Worha which is at the Root, and is 
more effedual than Bears Greafe, or any 
Sort of Pomatum, which rather feeds than 
deftroys that Enemy to the Hair. 

r 

ji Salve for a Burn or Scald, which 
will effedually take out the Fire. 

TAKE a * Pint of Sallad Oil, half a 
Pound of Whito-Lead, and a quarter 
of a Pound of Virgins Wax ; boil all to- 
gether ibftly, 'till it looks of a dark brown 
Colour, then roll it into Rolls. 

jin excellent Way to make the Salve 
• Gratia Dciy which is to be made about 
Midfummer. t 

nPAKE Vervain, Betony, and Pimper- 
^ nel, of each one. Handful ; ftamp them 
and boil them in three Q^iarts of White- 
wine, 'till half be confum'd j then ftrain it 
thro' a Linen Cloth, and fct it over the Fire 
again ; put to it one Pound of the beft Ro- 
fin, well beaten, four Ounces of Virgins 
Wax, or Yellow Wax, diflblv'd in Worban's 
Milk, and one Ounce of Mailick well povv- 
der'd ; boil all in the Wine, 'till it be melt-^ 
cd, ftirring well and feft j then take It 

* from 



l7o A Colk^im <f ke^eipts 

from the Fifty and put to it a Vovtnd of 
Turpentine, fiirring it 'till it be cold ; thert 
the Sal?e \vill rife aboye the reft, which 
you muft take out^ and labour with ybut 
Hands^ as Shoemakers do their Wax, and 
you may make it in Rolls, or keep it all.^ 
together In a Fan. This wail omitted in 
, the firft Fart ; but is feht tikt again ^rotti 
the fame charitable Family, on whoie re- 
peated Experience, t date iet dowii ibme 
of its many Virtue^ : 'Tis good for alt 
Sorts of Wounds, new and old } it cleanfes 
iind heals ; eatech off Dead Flefli, and ge-' 
nerateth New } it mollifies Boils, ^raws 
out Thorns, breaks Impofthumes ; is good 
in the Canker, and ^ Fiftula, Bruifes oti 
the Sinews, St. jimbny'% Fire, and it zl[* 
fuageth Swellings. ' 

Jn Ointment for SU Atitotiy'j 

Ftre, 

GATHER Eldcr-flowefs in the Springy 
and fill a Bottle as full as it can hold ; 
then wet them with Linfeed Oil, and fct 
them in, the Sun ; prcfs out this very hard^ 
and put to lotff Ounces of this, half a Dram 
of Saffron, an Ounce of foft Soap, and boil 
it to ai> Ointment ; jufl before you take it 
off the Fire, fliir in an Ounce of Cerufc j 

wbea 



in Pkyfick and Stifgciry. ly^t 

when you ufe it^ make it Warm, and suiotnt 
the Place ; dip foft Paper in the Ointnvonty 
and cover it when you drcfs it, which mvift 
be twice a Pay j wafih it with Spirit of* 
Wine, in which a little ^mrr treacle hast 
been mix'd. 



To make Extra^ of Ambdr. 



T 



AKE two Drams of good Amber-* 
greafe, as much Sugar-candy, twelve 
Grains of Musk, and fix Grains of Civet ; 
beat all fmall together, and put this Mixture 
into a Bottle that has a Gla& Stopper ; pmf 
upon thefe Ingredients four Ounces of high- 
ly RcftifyM Spirit of Wine ; fet it in warm 
Embers for twenty-four Hours j while 'tis 
warm, feparate the Clear from the Drols i 
This Extract is much better for all Sorts of 
Ufe, than Ambergfeafe ; five or fix Drops 
in any Thing ^ve a moft noMe f cffume 5 
half this Quantity will laft a gtekt many 
Years ; but '^ p^fct ht all Famtlfei di- 
ftant front Z(?^^% becaufe olrtft pj^elprib'd 
in Cordials. ' . • - 



\-t 



. f ■« '• 



To make a Sweet Water, 

1 

nr A K E half a Bu&el of Damask-Rofcs^ 

-■' not over-blown, pick them into a 

bfPtd Pan, and put in two good Handfiils 

of 



if! ACoRe^ion ifAeceipis, &c. 
of Lavender Tops, when it has jufl fhot thtf 
Ear -J put in alio four Ounces of Cloves, and 
ftir all together, putting in three Fints of 
Rofc-Water, and cover therii with a Pcwtci' 
DUh and a Napkin cloie ; let them ftand 
a Day and a Night, ftir them twice of 
thrice in a Day, and then dtftil them in a 
cold Still ; put into the Bottle four Grains 
cf Musk, and a Pebble Stone tied in a Rag. 



^ Mnd of the SECOiRt) Pakt^ 



INDEX. 



'1 



INDEX 

T O TH E 

SECOND PART. 

A C 

llOiejf Artichoke Calf s-Foot Bro/A 194. 

Bottoms frr G^s-V^i, <imtherti^ay\^< 

Saiue P.211 To Jre ft a Cod's-Bead ibid. 

In a /h-ong Fit. To *ro»/ Chickens 196 

*f*i^Afthma -^ -vtrjf frett^ Craft fir Tarft 

151 205 

ftr i» Apopleffick Pain in 7h Collar f^eal iiz 

the Head 259 fPhite Lemoi Creim 2i8 

A vtry gi>od£!tifuary fir an CJaxa Flummery 219 

Aflhma i66 Currant f/rar Cakes ibid. 

A» Ointment for St. Antho- Raiberrf Cakes ibid- 

aft Fire - #70 A mofi aJmirabh Way ta ify 

To make ExtraS ef Amber Cherries. 225 

371 Th mate Apricot Cakea 225 

B A plea/ant Medicine for a 

'A fntty Way to tat cold Cough 335 

Klii'd Beef 206 An eafy KeJicine for a dry 

ITbm^fo Savoy Biskets 239 HutiingCati0i- 2ttf 

jn» Jtop a violent Bleeding n»- >*« extellent Remedy for tit 

tnediately. 239 Stone-Cholick 237 

A lertah andirHmediate Cure For • Cholick attended imth 

for a BruiJe 21I0 faixful Fomitingt ibid. 

'AnKfiadnttrabWSa^amjfor Tie compofo^ Draught fir t/)e 

Sores, Fiftulas, Ulcers, ^f. Cholick ^ 238 

361 A Syruf fir an eI4 Coi^h 

'ATH^artiftht^k 2(2 243 

S . Amofi 




An INDEX, 

\4 mop excellent Procefi in 'a 
" Confumpdon 
!P?f the Canker 

A very good Drink for 

fumptive-Cpi^h afo nrnthout Butter 23 a 

Tor a, Fiemreiick Cough, or FortbeGtzvtl ^39 

. PainintbeSuk^ ibid. „ 

Jin admirahli . Method ffr " 

CpnvulfiogFitS 254. IbmakeacoUHzOiyOrSaiad 

Another for Conviilfions 255 Magundy ^04 

To Camphirize Sfirit of Wine An exeellent Meat of Hog's 

257 Head 2o(J 

A Motnb^nffatet to cure a Lozonges for the Heart*l|ura 

Caket ■, \ 2<Si . , ,• * f5i 

AgoodCcrtrcloAi . ibid. To make the Hm g;ro^ thick 

A Mlkwaterfor ^Whooping 268 

Cough 2S5 1 

»Fr Convulfion Fits 264 Icing ftr Kim 231 

Another for the fame .26J ib^r^^w <»» Impofthume o«;f 

(if the iE^ar 248 

^ ^ Medicine for the Jaundice 

K#f* Dumplins 215 249 

Tar a DroplV 241 A never^fmUng one for the, 

TocureDesiadkiandNoifein fame ibid, 

the Head 260 L 

E For a LocimQis ^nd Bbody 

ToroafiEth 200 f*^ ' ^ 

An excellent Purging Elixir • 

242 AnincomparableWaytomaie 

'A^ affrov^d Procefi for the Muftard ' 21Q 

/" Eyes 24(J To keefyinOvcoovos^ *mithout 

A mofi excellent Salve for the Pickle^ for Sauce 211 

Eyes ibid. To'i^^ti^^ Mackeroons i2i<{ 

A ffofi incomparahle Steel Tomakered^imelJbxm^r 

Eledhiary 2l(J> . . hA.tinJe^ . 221 

jj. To make Marmalade of )^ 

Afticots 224 

French Bread. 215 TomakeiAx^vciaizis^ofOring^ 

A Draught of the Salts in ^ fonaen ftia. 

Fever 2<{3 AViiididmt for any one that 

veryfleafant Pojfet in a iashenlHtijamd^iiqg y 
fev^^* ibi(^. ' iJSK 



f' »"7T ■ 



jfff I N D E X. 

N To Preferve red and nuhite 

rarSore Nipples, cr ^e ^^- ^ 

"''^' ""^^ 21, rfry Plumbs ibid,, 



Jlgotd Salve for Sort Lips .or " 2,':^ rmraDs luiu. 

Nipples ^ ,%^% ToVtc&rvcorCandyOr^ge 

1 A T ^L r ■ n^ij or L,e7tton Peels 227 
Another for the fame ibid. 

' fretty MeHicijte for Sore 

Nipples ibi4. Tofeafifra"Vi„ifonV^^i9 



uinolUrfor the fame ' ibid. _ '""^^"^ ^"I\^ Jrl 
^ pretty MedicL for Sore ^^ rnako^^otty Sm rfl^ 



1 



^ , V2i&efor the Pafty 2jo 

Tb puiie Plumb-porridge 193 ^n admirable MeMdm pr 

Jbffljj?Piketff Mackerel 198 theYAts 23d 

Tb malfe a Pafty rf Beef or l»ozenges for the Piles, as [/^ 

Mutton as good 0S Femfen ufedin theW. Indies ibid. 

201 ^» admirable Powder for 

^ Shrimp Pjre ^02 any Sore Mouthy Thrujty 

A Hare Pye ibid. or Canker 25C( 

A GreenrGoofe Pye 203 An Ointment for the Piles 

To Pot 0efiire Cheefe 204 2J9 

A ifery good Way to keep Another for the fame \h^. 

Tongues in Pickle,/<»r BoiU ^ 

ingy to eat hot or cold 207 ^ 

Anadmirable'Pick\ey inlmi' Rasberry Jam 221 

ta^oniflndi^ Bamboo, ex-^ A good Drink in the Rickety 

actly as that is dom ibid.* 2<2 

To Pickle/»^// Onions 208 Another for the Rickets 254 

ToViddQ Cucumbers in SUces ^^tf/w^r^ Rupture 265 

^xT ^ »r, ^ ,,. *°^ -^^ excellent Way to make 

d /'a'Z^''^^^^^^^?, f^^ pf^r&ngSyrup ofKoks 

The befiWaytomake the old r^ ^ ^ J 266 

' EnglifliBrfi«rfPudding2i3 q 

An excellent OatrmealFiidr ^ 

ding 21^ A Sweet Sauce for boiPd 

AlRiceof MUletViiMmg ib. Mutton 200 

A Pancake Puddings 2iy To Soufe a Turkey in Imita^ 

Pufis ^tf ^j' infiead of Fritters Mon of Sturgeon 2oy 

ibid. To Stew Cucumbers to eat 

An Almond Pudding ^ 216 Hot 210 

A Lemon Pudding " .217 For the Stone 239 

An Orange VwdAvog for Skins An excellent Ale for the 

218 Scurvy 240 

To Preferve Cherries 222 A purging Ifiet Drink for the 

fq. Prefery^ green Apricots fame 24J # 

^23 A mofi incomparable JSdlvc 

H 



^ I N D EX. 

tt^fiok «»rSwcllin3, &f- *be Nail grtviins «>t» *^ 

2^6 Too aoS 

'A» iiutKtparalle JHetBeme V 

ftrthtScarvymtbeTeetb i, jia„fi , Hsuneb tfVeni- 

*** fon 199 

Jl titttr Tm^ure for a Fein - W 

»*iwScomach 2JS7 ' 

■ :^ Salve Ar m Scald W Bi»r» I* Ste-a Wild-Fowl 197 

■' a<S9 -rf Kiw White-pot ±19 

2>w^*.j'A(S«lveGratiaD« 7>«wfeBarbadosWater «? 

ibid. .FofpjWaxafirM Afthtna 

T *V 
ASfrit^axatofvjtttentbe 

Ttmeie Orange Turn 131 BM. &C. 14a 

r« «*■<«« oKf * Thorn 24* -^ Pm«<&'' ^ '*< Worm 

jS» txcelfent Jlemedy fir a Fcvar in Childrt* 252 

AirfThroat, attdtdprevtnt A Mik Water frifffr to takt 

* ^'"'JV ^^4 ""^'^ '*" F»w*Ar 2<r5 

,4 Vfry good Way to prevent To mate a fvxet Water ay » 



P / N t 3. 



: 



f 



i 



i 







I 






- I 






