Boston 


Public 


Library 






><' m 


' ' book or 

' -If- 


mirk it with 


pen 


or 



!»-:. 



THE 

Lady's Companion, 



CONTAINING 

Upwards of Three Thoiifand different Receipts 
in every Kind oftj./\>v ^. ; ■'■■ 

C O O K E IL' t : 

AND 

Thofe the beft and mofl fafhionable; 

B F, I N G 

Four Times the Quantity of any Book of thisSort, 



I. Making near two Hundred diffe- 
rent Sorts of Soop?, Pottages, 
Broths, Sauce?, Culiifes, (^fc. af- 
ter the French, Italian, Dutch, 
and Englip Way j &\(o making 
Cake Soop ior the Pocket. 

II. Drefling Flefh, Fi/h, and Fowl j 
this laft illuftrated with Cuts, 
ftewing how every Fowl is to be 
trufs'd. 

HI. Directions for making Ragoos 
* and Fricafeys. 
IV. Diredtions for Drefiing all 

Manner of Kitchen Garden 

StufF, &c. 
V' Making two Hundred different 

Sorts of Puddings, Florendines, 

Tanzeys, &c, which are four 



with in any other Book of this 
Kind. 

VI. The whole Art of Pafiry, in 
naking upwards of two Hundred 
Pies, (with the Shapes of vhcm 
engraven on Copper- Plates) Tarts, 
Parties, Cuftards, Cheefc-Cakes, 
Terkpre Muffins, (£ff. 

VII. Receipts fcr all Man.ier of 
Pick.ing, Potting, Collaring, Gfr. 

VIII. For Preferving, making 
Creams, Jellies, and all Manner 
of Confectionary, with particular 
Receipts for making Orgeat and 
Blanc Manger. 

IX. Rules and Direftions for fetting 
out Dinners, Suppers, and grand 
Entertainments. 



Times the Number to be met 

To which is added, 

B I L L s of F A R E for every Month in the Year, 

, ALSO 

D I R ( c T I o N s for Brewing Beers, Ales, l^c. making all 
Sor of Engljjh Wines, Cyder, Mum, Metheglin, Vinegar, 
Verjuice, Catchup, ^c / ./ , ■ ' / ;' 

WITH 

The Receipts of Mrs. Stephens for the Stone-, Dr. Mead 
for the Bite of a Mad Dog ; the Recipe, fent from Ireland, 
for the G ut'. Sir Hans Sloane's Receipt for Sore Eyef ; 
and the Receipt for making T^xr /if^«/^r. .,. ': ^.^, 

.. ' ■■ » _^ — '^, ' ' 

The SIXTH EDITION, with large Additions. 



VOL. 1 



LONDON: 

Printed for J. HODGES 



L U JM U U J\ : 

HODGES, en L'ndon-Bndze -, and R. BALDWIN, 
at the Roje, jn Pater-mfier Row. 1753. 



R-ii 






//1/u 



'f mt;^- 




THE 



Lady s Companion. 



A R L 




C H 

Of Gravies, S o o p s, B r o t h 5, 
Pottages, ^WCullises. 

To make a j}rong V,XQ\.\i for Soops ^,?,y Sauces. 

A K E a Leg of £eef, or a large Quantltv 

of an)- other Part, and fet it over the Fire 

in four Gallons of Water ; ikim it clean 

Seafon it with Salt, whole Pepper, both 

Black and Ja7naica, fix or eight Onions. 

fome whole Cloves and Mace, a good L'un ' 

die of Thyme and ParJlev. Boil it four 

Hours, till ]t has boiled half away j then itrain it oiE and 

keep It for Ufe. ' 

Toinake a Brown Gravy /cr Soops at?./ Sauces. 

TAKE three or four Pounds of coarfe lean Beef an I 
put It into a Frying-pan, with fome fat Bits of Bacon 
at the Bottom, and cut five or fix Onions in Slices • cut a 

.rf7''V^/''^'rO;'^^'^' ^''^'^ ^^"^^ ^^^''^^ 0^' brown Bread, 
and a Bundle of Thyme, cover up clofe, and put all over a 
gentle Fire, and let it fry very brown on both Sides, but not 
feurn ; then put into it two or three Qiiarts of the ftronp- 
^roth, mentioned in the Receipt above. Sealbn it with 
repper, and let it ftew an Hour, and then ftrain it throuaii 



2 ^he Lady's Companion. 

a Hair Sieve; fidm oft the Fat, and keep it for Ufe. If it 
is for Soops, you mull make a larger Quantity. 

Gravy j^r Brown S^ces. 

TAKE fome Neck of Beef, cut it in thin Slices, then 
flour it well, and put it in a Sauce-pan, with a Slice 
of fat Bacon, an Onion fiiced, fome Powder of fweet Mar- 
joram, fome Pepper and Salt, cover it clofe, and put it over 
a flow Fire ; ftir it three or four Times, and when the Gravy 
is brown, put fome Water to it ; llir it altogether, and let it 
boil about half an Hour ; then Itrain it off, and take the Fat 
oiFtlie Top, adding a little Lemon- Juice. 

Gv^y for White Sauces. 

TA K E Part of a Knuckle or the v/orf!: Part of a Neck 
of Veal, boil about a Pound of it in a Quart of Water, 
an Onion, fome whole Pepper, fix Cloves, a little Salt, a 
Bunch of fweet Herbs, half a Nutmeg fliced ; let it boil an 
Hour, then ih-ain it oit, and keep it for Ufe. 

J che^p Gvdixy . 

TAKE a Glafs of Small Beer, a Glafs of Water, an 
Onion cut fmall,- fome Pepper and Salt, a little Lem- 
mon-peel grated, a Clove or two, a Spoonful of Muflirooin 
Liquor, or pickled Walnut Liquor ; put this in a Bafon i 
then take a Piece of Butter, and put it in a Sauce-pan on the 
Fire, and let it melt ; then drudge in fom.3 Flour, and ftir it 
v/ell till the Froth flnks, and it will be brown j then put in 
Ibme fliced Onion, and your Mixture, to the brown Butter, 
-^nd give it a boil up. 

^0 make Gravy in Urjle. 

CUT an Ox-Kidney into Slices, feafon it high with Salt 
and Pepper, put it into a Stew-pan, with juil Wa- 
ter enough to cover it, a Shalot or two cut, and a fliced Onion, 
a Bit of Butter, and a Bunch of Sweet- Herbs, and let it (lew 
gently. 

Or thus. 

CU T a Pound or two of lean Beef into Slices, beat it 
Avcil, and }:ut into it a Frying-pan till it be brown; 
add to it a Pint of flrong Broth, and an Onion, boil it a little, 
rtjid firain it for Ule. 

Or 



The L A D y's Companion, 3 

Or thus. 

PUT two Ounces of Bacon into a Frying-pan, with a 
Pound of lean Beef cut in Slices, fry it a little, then 
put in a Pint of Red Wine, and a Pint of Water, one An- 
chovy, a Sprig of Sweet-Herbs ; fry this a Quarter of an 
Hour, then put out what Gravy you find, and fry it till you 
have all the reft out ; then ft'rain it, and it will be fit for 
Ufe. 

A Gravy to keep. 

TA K E a lean Piece of Beef, one Quarter roafted, and 
cut it in Pieces ; put it into a Stew-pan, with half a 
Pint of ftrong Broth, and a Pint of Red Wine ; cover it up 
elofe, and ftew it an Hour, often turning it ; feafon it with 
Pepper and Salt, then llrain it off, and put it into a Stone 
Bottle, and when you ufe it, warm the Bottle. 

To make Mutton-Gravy. 

ROAST your Mutton a little more than half, then cut 
it with a Knife, and fqueeze out the Gravy with a 
Prefs, then wet your Mutton with a little good Broth, and 
prefs it the fecond Time ; put it with a little Salt into' an 
Earthen Veflel, and keep it for Ufe. 

A'Oiher Gravy io keep. 

GE T coarfe Beef, or Mutton, put it into as miich W?.- 
ter as will cover it; when it has boiled a while take- 
out the Meat, beat it very well, and cut it into Pieces to let: 
out the Gravy ; then put it in again with fome Salt, whole 
Pepper, an Onion, and a Bunch of Sweet-Herbs ; let it ilew, 
but do not let it boil ; when it comes to be of a good brow:: 
Colour, take it up, and put it into an Earthen Fan ; when ir 
is cold, fkim off the Fat, and keep it one Week under an 
other; if it begins to change, boii it up again. 

If it be for a white Fricaiey, meit fome Butter, with ;7. 
Spoonful or two of Cream, and the Yolks of Egg:^ and White 
Wine. 

To make V'eal- Gravy. 

CU T Steaks oil' of a Fillet of Veal, beat, thein -^velh 
lay them in a little Stew-pan, flice Carrot?, Pa.rihips'^ 
and Onions, and lay over them : Cover your Pan, and fet it 
over a gentle Fire, augmenting the Fire by Degrees ; and 

is 2 ube.- 



4 ^he Lad y's Companion. 

when the Gravy is almoft wafted, and the Veal begins to 
ftick to the Pan, and is become brown, put in fome ftrong 
Broth, a whole Leek, a little Parfley, and a few Cloves ; 
then cover the Stew-pan, and let it fiminer three Quarters 
of an Hour, then ftrain it into an Eartheyi P^i), and fet it 
by for Ufe in Soops and Ragoos, 

Another Gravy. 

F you are in the Country where you cannot always 
have Gravy Meat, when your Meat comes from the 
Butcher, take a Piece of Beef, a Piece of Veal, and a Piece 
ef Mutton ; cut them into as fmall Pieces as you can ; and 
take a large deep Sauce-pan with a Cover, lay your Beef at 
Bottom, then your Mutton, then a very Ijttle Piece of Ba- 
con, a Slice or two of Carrot, fome Mace, Cloves, w}u)le 
Pepper, Black and White, a large Onion cut in Slices, a 
Bundle of fweet Herbs, and then lay in your Veal : Cover 
it cloie over a very flow Fire for fix or ftven Minutes, Ihaking 
the Sauce-pan now and then ; (hake fome Flour in, and 
have fome boiling Water ready, pour it in till you cover 
the Meat, and fomething more : Cover it clofe, and let it 
fi:ew till it is rich and good, then feafon it to yourTalle with 
Salt, and ftrain it off. This will do for moft Things. 

A good Gravy for avy Uft\ 

URN two Ounces of Butter in a Frying-pan, that it 
_ be brown, but not black ; put in two Pound of coarfe 
lean Beef, two Quarts of W^ater, and half a Pint of Wine, 
either Red or White, as you would have the Colour ; put 
in three or four Shalots, half a Dozen Mufhrooms, Cloves, 
Ma,cs, whole Pepper, and four or five Anchovies; let it 
ftew for an Hour over a gentle Fire, and then ftrain it oiF 
for Ule. 

A Fijh Gravy for Soop. 

TAKE Tench, or Eels, cleanfed from Mud, and fcopr 
their Outfides well with Salt, then having pulled out 
their Gills, put them into a Kettle with W^ater, Salt, a 
Bunch of fweet Herbs, and an Onion ftuck with Cloves ; 
Jet all thefe boil an Hour and a Half, and then ftrain off the 
Liquor through a Cioth ; add to this the Peelings of Mufti- 
rooms, well wafhed, or Muftirooms themfelves cut fmall ; 
boil thefe together, and ftrain the Liquor through a Sieve 
into a Stew-pan, upon fome burnt, or fry'd. Flour, and a 

little 



ne L A D y's C O M P A N I N. 5 

Hide Lemon, which will foon Render it of a good Colour, 
and of a fine Flavour, fit for Soops, which may be varied 
according to the Palate, by putting Pot-herbs and Spices 
into the Soop a little before you ferve it. 

A Mitonage, or Soaki?jg Broth. 

FO R all Sorts of Soop, take a Leg of Beef, and a Piece 
of the Buttock, or any other Part, it matters not much ; 
but the Buttock and Leg are the propereft for Mitonage ; 
ufe what Quantity you think lit, according to the Eigncfs 
of your Pot, and the Quantity of Socp you intend to make. 
Suppole you would make two Soops out of one Mitonage : 
Take a Piece of a Buttock of Beef, about eight or ten 
Pounds, and a Piece of a Leg, about feven or eight Pounds : 
Put all into your Pot, fill it half full of Broth, if you have 
any, and then fill it up with Water; fkim it well, and fcafori 
it with Salt, a few Onions fluck with Cloves, Carrots, Tur- 
nips, and a good Bunch of Sellery j fometime after put in a 
Fowl, and a Knuckle of Veal tied round with Pack thread ; 
do not let them boil too much : This will ferve to put in 
your Soops ; you may alfo put in all the Garniture of your 
Soops, as Sellery, Endive, Leeks, Lettuces and'Fowls. 

Notey This Broth is very good to foak the Bread for aW 
Sorts of Soops, except Cabbage, Turnip, or Onion Soops, 
which are diftinguifhed by their different Garnitures. 

J good Stock for Filh Soops. 

PREPARE Scate, Flounders, Eels, and Whiteings, lay 
them in a broad Gravy- pan, put in a Faggot of 7 hyme, 
Parfley and Onions, feafon them with Pepper, Salt, Cloves, 
and Mace ; then pour in as much Water as will cover your 
Fifh ; put in a Head of Sellery, and fome Parfiey Roots. 
Boil it very tender about an Hour, then itrain it off for any 
Ufe, for Fifh or Meagre Pottages, This Stock will not keep 
above a Day. If you would make a Brown Stock you muin 
pafs your Fifh off in browned Butter, and flove it, then put 
in your Liquor and Seafoning. 

A Stock for an Herb-Soop. 

GET Chervil, Beets, Chards, Spinach, Sellery, Leeks, 
and fuch like Herbs, with two or three large Cruits 
of Bread, fome Butter, a Bunch of fweet Herbs, and a little 
Salt ; put thefe, with a moderate Quantity of Water, into 
a Kettle, and boil them for an Hour and an Half, and llrain 

B 3 out 



The Lady's Companion. 

oux. the Liquor through*a Sieve, and it will be a good Stock 
ioi Scops, either of Afparagus Buds, Lettuce, or any other 
kind fit for Lent or Fait- Days. 

Broth «?/ Roots. 

BOIL about two Quarts of Seed Peas ; when they are 
vt"y tender, bruife them to a iVIaih ; put them into a 
Lot th.1t holds two Gallons of Water, and hang it over the 
Fire for an Hour and an Half; then take it olf, and let it 
fettle. Take next a middle-fized Kettle, and llrain into it, 
thro' a Sieve, the clear Puree, into which put a Bunch of 
Carrots, a Bundle of Parfnips, and a Bunch ofParfley Roots, 
with a Dozen Onions; feafon it with Salt, a Bunch of Pot- 
Herbs, and an Onion lluck with Cloves : Boil all together, 
and put in a Bunch of Sorrel, and another of Chervil, with 
two or three Spoonfuls of the Juice of Onions ; fee that 
the Broth be well tafted,' and make \j(q of it to fimmer all 
Sorts of Soops made of Legumes. 

J Green Peas Soop n^ithout Meat, 

WFI IL E you are fhelling the Peas, feparate the youftg 
from the old, and boil the old ones till they are fo 
foft that you can pafs tliem thro' a Colander j then put the 
Liquor and the pulped Peas together ; put in the young 
Peas whole, adding fome Pepper, two or three Blades of 
Mace, and fome Cloves. 

V/hen the young Peas are boiled enough, put a Faggot 
of Thyme and Sweet Marjoram, a little Mint, Spinach, and 
^ green Onion flired, but not too fmall, with half or three 
Quarters of a Pound of Butter, into a Sauce-pan ; and as 
ti'.cfe boil up, ihake in fome Flour to boil with it, to the 
Quantity of a good Handful, or more ; put alfo a Loaf of 
. French Bread into the Broth to boil, then mingle the Broth 
and Herbs, ^c. together ; feaibn it with Salt to your Pa- 
late ; and garnifh with fome fmall white Toalls, neatly cut, 
and ibme of the young Peas. 

A Young Green Peas Soop. 

PU T fome young Peas into a Stev/-pan, with a Piece of 
good frefh Butter, and a Faggot of iweet Herbs ; fea- 
fon them with Pepper and Salt, and, after you have tolled 
them three or four Times on the Stove, put fome Veal Gravy 
to chem, and let them boil gently : Then take two round 
I„oaves of French Bread, of ^bout a. Pound Weight each, cut 

theiii 



7he Lady'sCompanion. 7 

them in Halves, and takeout all the Crumb ; if the four 
Cruils will go into your Difh, ufe them all, or as many as 
it will contain. Put your Criifts into a Stew-pan, widi a 
Finch of half-beaten Pepper, and a little Salt dafh'd over 
them ; then take a Spoonful of good Broth, and ibain it 
over your Cruils ; let them take a Boil or two, 'till they ar^? 
tender, and immediately put them into your Soop-Dilh, and 
put them over the Stove, and let them jull llick to the Diih, 
but not burn ; your Peas being well tailed, put them upoii 
your Cruils, and ferve them hot. 

Another Green Peas Soop. 

WIPE your Peafecod Shells, and fcald them, flrain and 
pound them in a Mortar, with fcalded ParHcy, young 
Onions, and a little Mint ; then foak a white French Roll ^ 
boil thefe together in clean Mutton Broth,, a Faggot of fweet 
Herbs ; feafon it with Pepper, Salt, and Nutmeg, then llraiu 
it through a Colander ; put the Pottage in a Dilh, in rhe 
Middle place a Piece of larded Veal, Chickens, or lardc-d 
Rabbits. Garnifh with fcalded Parfley, Cabbage Lettuce, 
and young Peas. 

Amther Green Peas Soop. 

TA K E a Peck of the youngell Peas you tan get, put 
them in a Stev/-pan, cover the Peas with Water ; then 
put in a Bunch of Thyme, Parfley, and young Onions, fome 
Pepper and Salt, a Quarter of a Pound of Bacon, and a Lump 
of Bu:ter, then cover down your Stew-pan, and let thciii 
flew a little while \ then take half a Dozen Cabbage Let- 
tuces, or more, according to the Size, cut them in Quar- 
ters, and put them into the Soop, with about eight or nine 
Cucumbers, and a Handful or two of Purilane ; then add 
fome more Seafoning, a Lump of Butter, and fill your 
Stew-pan with boiling Water : The Soop will take Hew- 
ing about two Hours ; if the Liquor be too much wailed 
away in that Time, add a little more boiling Water and 
Butter. 

Some People fluff a Chicken, or two or three Pigeons, and 
flew in it. 

A dryd Peas Soop. 

YO U may make this of Beef, but a Leg of Pork is 
much better ; or the Bones of Pork, or of the Skin 
and Hock of a Leg of Pork. Strain the Broth through 

B 4 a Sieve, 



S ne Lady's Companion. 

^ Sieve, and to every Quart of Liquor put half a Pint of 
fplitPeas, or to three Quarts of Liquor a Quart of whole 
Peas. 

The whole Peas mufl be pafTed thro' a Colander, but the 
fplit Peas do not need it; put in Sellery accordingly as you 
like it, cut fmall ; dry'd Mint and fvveet Marjoram in Pow- 
der ; feafon alfo with Salt and Pepper, boil all till the Sellery 
is tender .., 

If you boil a Leg of Pork, this is to be done when the 
Meat is taken out of the Pot j but if you make Soop from 
the Bones, boil thefe Ingredients afterwards in the Liquor. 

When you ferve it up, lay a French Roll in the Middle of 
the Difh, and garnifh the Border of the Difli with rafped 
Bread fifted. 

Some put in AU-fpice powdered, which is agreeable 
enough: Others, ferving it up, put toalled Bread cut into 
Dice ; and others, in the Boiling, add the Leaves of White 
Beets. 

A very good Peas Soop. 

BOIL three or four Pounds of lean coarfe Beef in tw® 
Gallons of Water, with three Pints of Peas, till the 
Meat is all in Rags, and ftrain it from the Meat and Hufks ; 
but half an Hour before you ftrain it, put in two or three 
Anchovies ; then put into a Sauce-pan as much as you would 
have for that Meal, with an Onion ftuck with Cloves, a 
S.ace of Ginger bruifed, a Faggot of Thyme, Savoury, and 
Parfley, and a little Pepper ; boil it for near half an Hour, 
' then flir in a Piece of Butter, and having fried fome Forc'd- 
Meat Balls, Bacon, and Trench Bread, cut into Dice, with 
Spinach boiled green j put thefe to the Soop in the Difti. 

A Peas Soop for Lent, or any Fajiing Days. 

BO I L a Quart of good Peas in fix Quarts of Water, tiH 
they are foft j then take out fome of the clear Liquor, 
and flrain the Peas from the Husks, as clean as may be ; 
then boil fome Butter, and when it breaks in the Middle, 
put in an Onion and fome Mint, cut very fmall. Spinach, 
Sorrel, and a little Sellery cut grofly ; let thefe boil for a 
Quarter of an Hour, llirring them often ; then with one 
Hand fhake in fome Flour, while with the other Hand you 
y:our in the thin Liquor ; then put into the llrained Liquor 
ibme Pepper, Mace, and Salt, and boil it for an Hour longer : 
Put a Pint ©f fweet thick Cream to as much of it as will 

make 



The L AD y's Companion* 9 

make a large Dilli, laying a French Roll, crifped, and dipped 
in Milk, in the Middle of the Dilli. 

Another Peas Soop. 
O I L a Quart of good Seed Peas tender and thick, 

llrain and walh them thro' a Sieve with a Pint of Milk ;. 

then put therein a Pint of ftrong Broth, boiled with Balls, 
a little Spear Mint, and a dry'd French Roll ; feafon it with 
Pepper and Salt; cut a Turnip in Dice, fry it, and put into 
it. 

A good Spring Soop. 

GE T twelve Cabbage Lettuces, fix green Cucumbers 
pare them, and cut out the Cores ; then cut them iii 
little Bits, and fcald them in boiling Water, and put t-iem. 
into ftrong Broth ; let them boil till very tender, with a 
Handful of Green Peas, and fome French Roll. Garnifh 
with Lettuce and green Cucumbers cut in Slices. 

A Soop de Sante the French Way. 

PU T over the Fire twelve Pounds of Beef, feafoned mo- 
derately with Spices and Salt, boil it till your Broth is 
rtrong, llrain it to a good Knuckle of Veal blanched, fhea 
boil It up a fecond Time, putting your Pullet to it that you 
defign to ferve in the Middle of yo^ir Soop j let it boil till 
it comes to the Strength of a Jelly, put to it, in the Boilirtg, 
a Bit of Bacon that is not rufty, fluck with fix Cloves : Your 
Broth being thus ready, at the fame Time make a Pan of 
good Gravy thus : Take a Stew-pan or iBrafs Dilh, place 
in the Bottom of it a Quarter of a Poun'd:=>of Bacon cut in 
Slices, clean from Rurt, like wife the Bignefs of half an 
Egg of Butter ; take five or fix Pounds of a Fiilet of V-eal, 
and cut it in Slices as thick as you do for Scotch Col lops, and 
place it on your Bacon in your Stew-pan, covering all the 
Bottom over. If you have no Veal ufe Buttock of "^zt^, 
fet it over a clear Fire, not very hot, and let it colour : 
When it begins to crack, put a little of the Fat of) our boil- 
ing Broth to it, ftir it as little as poflible, becawfe it makes 
it thick, and throw in three or four fliced Onions, one Car- 
rot, two Turnips, a little Parfley, a Sprig of Thyme, a little 
whole Pepper and Cloves : All thefe Ingredients being fryU 
together, till you think it comes to a good Colour, if in 
Summer, a few Mulhrooms will give it a goodTalK*. When 
it is of a good Colour, add to it your boiling Broth from 

B 5 your 



lo ^he La d y's C o m p a n i- o w. 

your Knuckle of Veal, leaving fonie to keep your Veal and 
Pullet white, to foak your Bread with for the Soop, and 
other Ufes in the Kitchen. Your Broth and Gravy being in 
Readinefs, take fuch Herbs as the Country where you are 
will aiFord, fuch as Sellery, Endive, Sorrel, a little Chervil, 
or Cabbage Lettuce, well picked and vv'aflied, mince them 
down with your Mincing-knife, and fqueeze the Water from 
them, place them in a little Pot, or deep Sauce pan, put to 
them fo much of your Broth and Gravy as will juft cover 
them ; let them boil tender, then take the Cruils of two 
French Rolls, and boil them up with three Pints of Gravy,, 
and ftrain it through a Strainer, or Sieve, and put it to your 
Herbs ; if you have no French Bread to thicken it with, 
take the Bignefs of an Egg of Butter, a fmall Handful of 
Flour, and brown it over the Fire, and a little minced 
Onion, if the Eaters be Lovers of it, if not, let the Onion 
that was in the Gravy ferve. Add to your Brown fome 
Gravy, and boil it. and ftrain it thro' a Sieve to your Kerbs, 
inftead of French Bread ; let your Herbs be pretty tender 
before you put your Thickening in ; boil ail together half 
an Hour, and fxim off the Fat; place in the Bottom of your 
Diih, that you intejnd to ferve your Soop in, fome French 
Bread in Slices, or the Cruft dried before the Fire, or in an: 
Oven, boil it up with fome of your Broth, fo put your Fowl 
an^ Heibs on the Top of it ; let your Garnifhing be a 
Rim, on the Outfide of it Sellery, of Endive, tender boiled 
in good Broth, and cut in Pieces about three Inches longj 
if youcanr.ot ipare Herbs, take a Bit of Forced-Meat, and 
boiled Carrot, to garnifh it : Ser/e it hot, and take Care there 
is no Fat on it. 

A Soop de Sante the Englifh Way. 

YOUR Gravy and Broth being ready, as in the above 
Receipt, inilead of Herbs take Carrots and Turnips, 
and cut them in fquare Slices an Inch long, and the Bignefs 
of a Qiiill, blanch them off in boiling Water, but blanch 
the Carrots more than the Turnips, and ftrain them out in a 
Colander, from the Water .where they are blanched in ; then 
talce two Charts of Gravy, the Cruft of two Fre7ich Rolls, 
and boil them as before dire«^ed, ftrain it thro' a Strainer or 
Sieve, and put it to the Carrots and Turnips ; let them boil 
gently in it over the Fire, 'till they are tender ; your Bread 
being foakcd in your Diih, put in the Middle of it a Knuckle 
of Veal, or a Pullet, or Chicken,- Let your Garnifhing be 

Carrot, 



^;&^ L A D y's C O M P A N I O N.; H 

Carrot, or Turnip, cut in fmall Dice, and boikd tender ; 
ikim off the Fat, ib ferve it. 

Soop Lorraine, 
TAVING very good Broth made of Veal and Fowl, ard 



t 



1 Itrained clean, take a Pound of Almonds, and blanch 
them, pound them in a Mortar very fine, putting to them ;i 
little Water to keep them fi'om oiling as you pound them, 
and the Yolks of four Eggs tender boiled, and the Lean of 
the Legs and Breafl of a roafted Pullet or two ; pound all to- 
gether very fine ; then take three Quarts of very good Veal 
Broth, and the Cruft oi French Rolls cut in Slices, let them 
boil up together over a cL^ar Fii e, then put to it your beaten 
Almonds ; let them juil boil up together ; .llrain it through a 
fine Strainer to the Thicknefs of Cream, as much as will 
ferve the Bignefs of your Diili i haih or mince the Ereail: of 
t\v6 roafted Pullets, and put them into a I>oaf as big as two 
hench^Kolh, the Top cut off, and the Crum taken out, fea- 
fon your Halh with a little Pepper and Salt, a fcraped Nut- 
meg, and the Bignefs of an Egg of Butter, together \\'ix\\ 
five or fix Spoonfuls of your llrained Almonds; let theBread 
that you put in the Bottom of your Soop be French Bread, 
dry'd before the Fire, or in an Oven ; ibak it with cleaii 
Broth, and a little of your flrained Soop, place your Loaf in 
the Middle ; put in your Hafli warm ; you may put four 
Sweetbreads, tender boiled, about your' Loaf, if you pleale. 
Let your Garnilhing be a Rim and a fliced Lemon, fo ier\ e 
it up. 

A Verraicelly Soop. 

GE T two Quarts of good Broth made of Veal and 
Fowl, put to it about two Ounces of Vcrmicelly, and 
a Bit of Bacon ftuck with Cloves; rub a Piece of Butter, 
about the Bignefs of half an Egg, in half a Spoonful of Flour, 
and diffolve it in a little Broth, to thicken your Soop : Boil 
a Pullet, or a Couple of Chickens, for the Middle. Let your 
Garnilhing be a Rim, on the Outfide of it cut Lemon ; ibak 
your Bread in the Diih with fome of the fame Broth ; take 
the Fat off, and put your Vermicelly in yourJD'ilh, fo lerve 
it. 

You may make Pace-Soop the fame Way, only your Rice 
being firft boiled tender in Water, mull be boiled ar. Hour 
after in Ibrong Broth j but half an Hour will boil tiie Ver- 
micelly. 



12 ^he L A D y 's C O M P A N I O xV. 

Soop au Bourgeois. 

HAVING good Broth and Gravy in Readinefs, take 
four Bunches of Sellery, and ten Heads of Endive, 
wafh them clean, and take off the Outfide ; cut them in 
Pieces an Inch long, and fwing them well from the Water. 
This Soop may be made brown or white : If you intend it 
bro\yn, put the Herbs into two Quarts of boiling Gravy^ 
having firft blanched them in boiling Water five or fix Mi- 
nutes ; then take the Crufts of two French Rolls, boil them 
up in three Pints of Gravy, flrain them through a Strainer 
or Sieve, and put them to the Herbs, when they are almoft 
ready ; for that is to be minded in all Soops, that your 
Thickening is not to be put in till your Herbs are almoll 
tender : You may put in the Middle of your Soop a Pullet 
or Chickens. Let your Garnifhing be a Rim, and on the 
Outfide fome of your Sellery cut in Pieces three Inches long, 
your Bread being foaked in fome good Broth or Gravy, and 
your Herbs boiling hot ; fo ferve it. 

Pottage cf Chervil the Dutch Way. 

GE T ready a fufficient Quantity of good Broth, and put 
in it a Knuckle of Veal, cut in Pieces, the Bignefs of 
an Egg ; fkim it, and take care it does not boil too much. 
Half an Hour before you ferve it to Table, throw in fome 
Forc'd-Meat Balls, rot too fat, but of a good Confidence ; 
droll them before-hand in Rafpings of Bread ; they muft be 
no bigger than fmall Nuts. A Quarter of an Hour before 
you ferve, put in a pretty deal of Chervil mix'd and chopped 
very fine, together with an Handful of Flour, there mull be 
a great deal ; for a large Soop a good Plate full is requifit®. 
When your Chervil is in, keep it always ftirring till you aie 
ready to ferve, which mud be without Bread. 

An Artichoke Soop. 

WASH the Bottom of your Artichokes, and boil them 
in blanch'd Water, putting in a large Piece of Butter, 
kneaded up with a little Flour and Salt : When they are 
boiled mke them out, malh them, and Ibain them through, 
a Sieve, as you do Peas, then let them fimmer in a Stew- 
pan over a gentle Fire, putting in Butter, Salt, Pepper, 
Nutmeg and Cloves, pounded in a Mortar, alfo a Bunch of 
young Onions, Thyme, and a Bay Leaf : When it is almoll 
• • adv, pound in a Moitar fome blanch'd Sweet-Almonds, 
' Yolks 



7he La D y's Com p A N I ON. 13 

Yolks of hard Eggs, Sugar, and a little Orange- Flower 
Water ; put this to your Soop, fet it a little over the Fire, 
and then lerve it. 

A Savoy Soop. 

LE T your Savoys be cut in four Pieces, and three Parts 
boiled in Watery then fqueeze them,^when cold, with 
your Hand, clean from the Water -, place in a large Sauce- 
pan, or little Brafs Difh, fuch a Quantity as your Difh will 
hold; there muft be Room between each Bit of Savoy to 
take up Soop with a large Spoon] put them a boiling with 
as much Broth or Gravy as will cover them ; fet them a 
ftewing over the Fire two Hours before Dinner ; at the 
fame Time, take a Sauce-pan, with a Quarter of a Pound 
of Butter, put it over the Fire with a Handful of Flour, keep 
it flirring till it is brown ; put to it two minced Onions, and 
ftir it a little afterwards, then put to it a Quart of Veal 
Gravy, boil it a little, and pour it all over your Savoys. You 
force Pigeons between the Skin and the Body, with good 
Forc'd-Meat made of Veal ; or you take a Duck, or Duck- 
lings, being truffed up for boiling, then fry them off, and 
put them a ftewing with your Savoys ; let a little Bacon, 
lluck with Cloves, be put in with them to ftew. Let your 
Garnifhing be a Pvim, and on the Outfide of it Slices of Ba- 
con, a little Heart of Savoy betv/een each Slice, taking the 
Fat clean off; foak your Bread in your Difli, with fome 
good Broth or Gravy, place your Savoys at a due Diftance, 
and your Duck in the Middle; fo ferve it up. 

You may make a Cabbage Soop according to the above 
Dire<^ions. 

A Kervel Maes Pottage. 

GE T a Knuckle of Veal, chop it all in little Pieces, ex- 
cept the Marrow-bone, feafon the Fleih with a little 
Salt, Nutmeg, pounded Bifcuit, and Yolks of Eggs, and 
make little Forc'd-Meat Balls, of the Bignefs of a Pigeon's 
Egg ; which being boiled in a Broth pot for the Space of a 
full Hour, then take three or four Handfnls of Chervil pick- 
ed clean, two or three Leeks, and a good Handful of Beet 
Leaves, mince them together, and add two or three Spoon- 
fuls of Flour, well mixed with two or three Spoonfuls of 
Broth, that it may not be lumpy, and do it over the Stove 
as you would do Milk Pottage. This Pottage niuft appear 
green. On Filh Days cut fome Eels in Pieces, with which 

make 



i4 '^he Lady's Companion". 

make the Broth, inftead of the Veal, and you may put in a 
Handful of Sorrel among the other Herbs. 

A Sorrel So op -tviih Eggs. 

BO I L a Neck of Mutton, and a Knuckle of Veal ; 
fkim them cl-ean, and put in a Faggot of Herbs ; fea- 
fon with Pepper, Salt, Cloves, and Mace, and when it is 
boiled enough, ftrain it olf, let it fettle, and (kirn the Fat 
off, then take ycur Sorrel, and chop it, but not fmall ; pafs 
it in brown Butter, put in }our Broth, and feme Slices of 
French Bread, and flow in the Middle a Fowl, or a Bit of a 
Neck of Mutton ; then garniih your Difh with Slices of fry 'd 
Bread, and ftew'd Sorrel, with fix poach'd Eggs, laid round 
the Difh, or in the Soop. 

J Crawfish Soop. 

TAKE half a Dozen Whitings, half a Thornback, and 
a large Eel, cleanfe them, and boil them in as much 
Water as will cover them j fkim the Pot well i feafon with 
a little Salt, whole Pepper, Ginger, Mace, an Onion ftuck 
with Cloves, Thyme and Parfley, and boil them ail to ?v'Iafh ; 
then take the Tails of half a hundred Crawfm, pick out 
the Bag, and all the woolly Parts that are about them, put 
them into a Sauce-pan with Water, Vinegar, Salt, Lemon, 
and a Faggot of fweet Herbs ; when thefe have ftev/d over 
a gentle Fire, 'till they are ready to boil, take out the 
Crawfiih Tails, and lay them by, and beat all the other 
Shells in the Liquor they are Hewed in, with a French Roll, 
*till the Shells are beaten very fine ; wafh out all the Good- 
nefs with their own Liquor, then pour the other Fifh- 
Liquor through the Shells, and flrain all from the Filth and 
Grit. Then having in the mean Time a Carp Hewed, lay 
it in the Middle of the Difh ; Add the Body of a LobHer 
to the Soop, with good Gravy and burnt Butter ; heat the 
Crawiifh Tails in the Soop, and pour all over the Carp. 
Garnifh with a Rim of Forc'd-Meat, or clean Paile, laying 
fome of your Crawfifh thereon ; and fo ferve it up. 

Aiiother Crawfifh Soop. 

CLeanfe your Crawfifh, and boil them in Water, Salt, and 
Spice, pull jDfF their Claws and Tails, and fry them ; 
break the reil of them in a Stone Mortar ; feafon them with 
lavoury Spice, and an Onion, hard Eggs, grated Bread, and 
fweet Herbs, boiled in flrong Broth j Hrain it; then put to 

it 



The L A D y's CoMP A NiOM. 15^ 

it fcalded chopped Parfley, and Fremh Rolls, with a few dry'd 
Mudirooms ; garniili the Difh with diced Lemon, and the 
Claws and Tails of the Crawfifii. 

Lobfler Soop. 

TAKE any Sort of Filh, either Carp, Tench, Pike, 
Trout, Flounders or Whitings, to the Quantity of 
four or five Pounds, and make a Stock of it according to the 
Diredions given for making Crawfifh Soop ; let your Forc'd- 
Meat be kept as clean from Bones as you can, and make it 
up about the Size of a double French Roll, hollow in the 
Middle, and open at the Top ; fet it in the Oven for half 
an Hour, jull before you ufe it ; place this Forc'd-Meat in 
the Middle of the Soop ; pound the Spawn of the Lobfler, 
and flrain it vvjth your Cullis : Take the Meat out of your 
Lobfter, and cut it into fquare Pieces in the Form of large 
Dice, put it into a Sauce-pan with a little of the Cullis, with 
Salt and Pepper, give it a Warm, put in a Piece of Butter, 
and put it into your Forc'd-Meat Loaf that you plac'd in the 
Middle of your Soop. Having foaked your Bread, and 
heated your Cullis, fqueeze in lome Lemon. Gajnifh with 
a Ri. of Pafte, with Slices of Lemon on the Outfide, and 
ferve it up. 

y^ Brown Pottage Royal. 

SE T a Gallon of flrong Broth over the Fire, with two 
fliivered Palates, Cocks-combs, Lamb-ftones fliced, with 
favoary Balls ; a Pint of Gravy, two Kandfuls of Spinach, 
and young Lettuce minc'd; boil thefe together with a Duck, 
the Leg and Wing Bones being broke and pulled out, and 
the Breaft flafhed, and drowned in a Pan of Fat ; then put 
the Pottage in a Difh, and the Duck in the Middle,lay about 
it a little Vermicelly, boiled up in a liitle flrong Broth, with 
favoury Balls, and Sweet-breads : Garnifh with fcalded Parf- 
ley, and Turnips, Beet-Root, and Barberries. 

A Mufcle Soop. 

GET a Quantity of Mufcles, n.ake them clean, boil them,. 
and pick them out of the Shells, then v/afh them again,, 
and put them into a Sauce- pan : Take three or four Pounds 
of frefh Fiih, and fome Crawiifli Cullis, flrain it thro' a Sieve 
to the Thicknefs of a Cream, put a little of it to your Muf- 
cles i cut off the Top of a French Roll, take out the Crumb, 
and fry it in a little Butter, place in the Middle of your Soop 

your 



1 6 The Lady's Companion. 

your Bread being foak'd with fome of your CuUis. Let 
your Garnilhing be a Rim of Pafte ; lay the Mufcle Shells 
round the Outfide of it ; thicken up your Mufcles with the 
Yolk of an Egg, as you do a Fr'.cafey, and put one or two 
in a Shell round your Soop, likewife fill up the Loaf in the 
Middle; the Cullis being boiling hot, fqueeze into that, and. 
in the Mufcles, a little Lemon ; fo ferve it. 
You may make Cockle Soop the fame Way. 

A Scate or Thornback Soop. 

MAKE your Stock, or Cullis, as you do for a Craw- 
fifh Soop, only without Shells to colour it : Your 
Scate or Thornback being Ikinned, take half a Pound of the 
bell of the Fifii f?om the Bones, cut it to Pieces, and throw it 
into your Cullis, with fome other frefh Fifh, fuch as the 
Country affords. Your Cullis being ftrained off ready, to the 
Thicknefs of a Cream, mince the lean Part of the Filh you 
cut from the Bones, and put it over the Fire in a little 
Sauce-pan, with a little Butter, Pepper, and Sak, ftirring it 
till the Raw is off of it; then mince it with your Knife on 
a clean Table the/econd Time, and put it in your Sauce-pan 
again : If it is good Fifh, it will eat as tender as a Chicken 
hafhed ; put a little Lemon to it, and place it in a French 
Roll in the Middle of your Soop ; your Cullis being hot, 
and your Bread foaked in the Bottom of your Difh, fqueeze 
in fome Lemon. Let your Garnilhing be a Rim on the 
Outfide, fo ferve it. 

An Oyfter Soop. 

YOUR Stock mull beof Fiili, then take two Quarts of 
Oyflers, fet them and beard them, take the hard Part 
of the Oyflers from the other, and beat them in a Mortar, 
with ten hard Yolks of Eggs, put in fome good Stock, fea- 
fon it with Pepper, Salt, and Nutmeg, the4i thicken up your 
Soop as Cream ; put in the refl of your Oyfters, and garnifh 
with Oyflers. 

Another Oyfler Soop. 

TA K £ a Quart of fmall Oyflers, put them Into a Co- 
lander to drain ; llrain the Liquor through a fine Sieve, 
put to it half a Pint of Water and a Gill of White Wine, 
with a few Sprigs of Parfley, fome Thyme, a little Shalot 
or Onion, a Bit of Lemon- peel, a few Cloves, a Blade of 
Mace, and fome whole Pepper, let them flew gently fome 

Time. 



The Lad y's Companion. 17 

Time. Take a Quarter of a Pound of Butter, and put it 
into a Pan, but flour it well firft, then fry it till it has done 
hiffing ; then take yourOyftcrs, and dry them in a Cloth 
and flour them, then put them into the Butter, and fry them 
till they are plump, then put one Anchovy to them and a 
little Wine, the Yolks of two Eggs well beaten ; then put the 
Liquor, ^c. into the Pan, and give all a Scald or two to- 
gether, keeping it ftirring all the Time ; before you put 
the Soop into the Difh, lay the Cruft of a French Loaf, or 
Toaft, at the Bottom, foak'd in fome of the Liquor over 
Coals. Before you put in the Whole, you may add ftrong 
Broth, or fry'd Gravy, if not in L^nt. Crawfiili and 
Shrimps do well in this Soop ; if you have Shrimps the 
fewer Oyfters will do. Take Care your Soop be thick. 

Eel Pout Pottage, 

CLEAN them well, fry them whole in burnt Butter and 
a little Flour, then ftew them in an Earthen Pan, in Fifti 
Broth or Peas Soop, with a little Wine, feafoning with Salt, 
Pepper, and a Bunch of Herbs, foak fbme Crufts in the Li- 
quor, lay them in a Difli j put in your Pottage, and garnilh 
with Maflirooms and Capers. 

An Ecl-Soop. 

TAKE Ef^Jf ,-TCording to the Quantity of Soop you 
would m.^f ^; Pound of Eels will make a Pint of 
good Soop, fo to every Pound of Eels put a Quart of 
Water, a Cruft of Bread, two or three Blades of Mace, a 
little whole Pepper, an Onion, and a Faggot of fweet Herbs. 
Cover them clofe, and let them boil till half the Liquor is 
wafted ; then ftrain it, and toaft fome Bread ; being cut 
fmall, lay it in your Difli, and pour in your Soop. If you 
have a Stew-hole, fet the Difli over it for a Minute, and 
fend it to Table : But if you find your Soop not rich enough, 
you muft let it boil till it is as ftrong as you would have it. 
You may make this Soop as rich and good as if it was Meat, 
Sometimes a Piece of Carrot is added to brown it. 

A Pottage of glared Scotch Collops. 

TAKE the Knuckle of a Leg of Veal, let it be very 
white and tender, lard it with fmall Slices of Bacon, 
and boil it as for a firft Courfe ; take another Knuckle of 
^^eal, cut it in thin Slices, flat them with the Cleaver, and 
lard them alfo as the other ; then fet thefe a ftewing with 

the 



1 8 ^he Lady's Companio n. 

the firil, and glaze them ; make a Cullis in this Manner : 
Take a Piece of a Fillet of Veal, and cut it in Slices, with 
fome Slices of Ham; put them in a Stew-pan over the Fire, 
with an Onion and Carrot fiiced ; let it fweat and ftick to 
the Pan, but take care it do not burn, and put fome very 
good Broth to it ; then take a roailed Partridge, or a Car- 
cafs come from the Table, and pound it in a Mortar ; be- 
ing pounded, take the Veal and Roots out of your Stew-pan, 
and put in their Places your pounded Partridge, with a little 
Ladleful of Cullis, and give it a good Tade ; ftrain it thro' 
a Strainer ; put it into a little. Pot, and keep it hot. Take 
a Trench Roll or two, take oft the Crulis, and put them in a 
Stew-pan ; ftrain fome o^ your Broth, well cleared of the 
Fat, on the Cruils, let it fnnmer awhile, and put it in your 
Soop-dilli ; cut your Collops in long fmall Slices, and gar- 
nifh your Soop-difh v/ith it ; put your Cullis upon your foak- 
cd Bread, and the glazed Veal above all, and ferve it hot. 

A good Gravy Soop. 

GE T a Leg of Beef, and boil it down with feme Salt, 
a Bundle of fweet Herbs, an Qnion, a few Cloves, a 
Bit of Nutmeg; boll three Gallons ftf Water to one; then 
take two or three Pounds of lean Beef cut in thin Slices ; 
then put into your Pan a Piece of Butter, as big as an Egg, 
and flour it, and let the Str;v-pan be^ ^^ and fliake it *till 
the Butter be brown; ther; lay your ' .n your Pan over 
a pretty quick Fire, cover It clofe, give it a Turn now and 
then, and ftrain in your flrong Broth, with an Anchovy or 
two, a Handful of Spinach and Endive boiled green, and 
drained, and fhred grofs ; then have fome Palates ready- 
boiled, and cut in Pieces, toafted and fryed : Take out the 
fry'd Beef, and put all the rell together with a little Pep- 
per, and let it boil a Quarter of an Hour, and ferve it up 
with a Knuckle of Veal, or a Fowl boiled in the Middle. 

Another Gravy Soop. 

TA K E twelve Pounds of Beef, of the Neck and Stick- 
ing-piece, a Scrag of Mutton, and a Knuckle of Veal; 
put your iieef in a Pan, and half fry it, with a Bit of But- 
ter, then put all in a Pot, with fomewhat more than two 
Gallons of Water, a good Handful of Salt, and a Piece 
of Bacon ; boil and &im it, then feafon it with three 
Onions lluck with Cloves, whole Pepper, Jamaica Pepper, 
and a Bunch of fweet Herbs ; let it boil five or fix Hours 

clofe 



fhe Lady's Companion. 19 

clofe covered ; then flrain it out, and put it in your Difh, 
with Hewed Herbs, and toafted Bread. 

Another Gravy-Soop. 

TA K E a Leg of Beef, and a Piece of the Neck, and 
boil it 'till you have the Goodnefs out of it ; then 
ftrain it from the Meat ; take half a Pound of frefh Butter, 
and put it in a Stew-pan, and brown it ; then put in an Onion 
iluck with Cloves, fome Endive, Sellery, and Spinach, and 
your llrong Broth, and feafon it to your. Palate with Salt, 
Pepper, and Spices, and let it boil together; put in Chips of 
French Bread, dry'd by the Fire, and ferve it up with a 
Fr£7ich Roll toafted in the Middle. 

An Almond-Soop. 

OUR Stock muft be of Veal and Fowl, then beat a 
Pound of Jordan Almonds very fine in a Mortar, with 
the Yolks of fix hard Eggs, putting in a little cold Broth 
fometimes ; then put in as much Broth as you think will 
do ; ftrain it off, and put in two fmall Chickens, and fome 
Slices of Frenck Bread ; feafon it gently, fo ferve away ;. 
garnifh with Whites of Eggs beat up. 

Rice Soop. 

YOUR Stock mufl be of Veal and Fowl ; put in half 
a Pound of Rice, and a Pint of good Gravy, and a 
Knuckle of Veal, ftove it tender -, feafon with Mace and 
Salt, then make a Rim round your Difh, and garnifh with 
Heaps of Rice, fome coloured with Saffron, placing one 
Heap of White, and one of Yellow all round. 

Another Rice Soop, 

TA K E a Quarter of a Pound of Rice, pick and wafh 
it very clean, boil it with Veal Broth 'till very tender, 
with a little Mace and a young Fowl, fkim it very clean, 
and feafon lightly with Salt, then llir in half a Pound of But- 
ter, then add a Pint of Cream boiled up, and ftir it into the 
Soop ; ferve it up with the Crumb of a French Roll and the 
Fowl. 

An Italian Pottage. 

IT is a Sort of Olio, difhed in feparate Compartments, in 
the Middle of your Difh, for which Purpofe make a 
Crofs of Pafte, then bake it in the Oven ; in the Firft 

Axjgle 



20 The Lad Y^s Companion. 

Angle make a Bifque, in the Second a Pottage of fmall 
Chickens, in the Third a Pottage a la Reine (en Profitrolh ;) 
and in the Fourth a Pottage of forced Partridges. Qbferve 
that each Soop is to have its different Broth belonging to 
it, with different Garniture. 

j^ Soop of Force J Green GeeCc, 

MAK.E a Force-Meat of Goofe-Liver, a Piece of Ba- 
con, a Calf's Udder, or Eeef-Sewet, fome Crumbs 
of Bread foaked or boiled in Milk, and three or four Eggs ; 
chop all together, and feafon with Pepper, Salt, fweet Herbs 
and Spices ; when this is done, put your Force-Meat into 
your Goofe's Belly, then put it into a Pot with fome good 
Broth, and fet it a doing gradually over the Fire ; then 
take the Crufts of French Rolls as ufual, and put them in a 
Stew-pan, with fome of the fame Broth your Goofe is boiled 
in, .and fet your Cruils a fimmering and foaking gently over 
a Stove; when they are tender, put them in your Soop- 
Difh, and the Goofe upon them; then put over your Goofe 
a Cullis of Green Peas, if in Seafon, or elfe Afparagus 
Tops. Garnifh the Rim of your Difh with middling Bacon, 
and ferve it hot. 

j^ Turnip Soop. 

HAVING good Veal Gravy in Readinefs, take fome 
Turnips, pare them, and cut them in Dice, one or 
two Dozen, according to the Size and Bignefs of your Difh ; 
fry them of a brown Colour, in clarified Butter, or Hog's 
Lard. Take two Quarts of good Gravy, and the Crufts of 
two French Rolls, boiled up together, and ftrained through 
a fine Strainer. Your Turnips bein.g ftrained from the Fat 
they were fried in, put them together, boil them till tender. 
You may roaft two Ducks to put in the Middle. Let your 
Garni(h be a Rim, on the Outfide of it fome fmall diced 
Turnips, boiled white in Broth, and betwixt every Parcel 
of them a Piece of fry'd Turnip, in Shape of a Cock's 
Comb. Soak your Bread in fome good Fat and Gravy, 
and then ferve it. 

J Pottage of Chefnuts. 

TAKE fome large Chefnuts, and p&el them, then put 
them into a Pafty-pan, with Fire under and over, put 
them in an Oven, and peel off the under Skin, then fet 
them a boiling, in good Broth ; put in a Stew-pan about 

half 



'The Lady's Companion. 21 

half a Pound of Veal, a few Slices of Ham, fome /liced 
Carrot and Onion, fet them in a Stove to fweat till they fticic 
to the Pan without burning, moiften them with good Broth ; 
you mull have fome Carcafes of Partridges, or Pheafants* 
ready pounded ; take the Meat out of your Stew-pan with a 
Skimmer, and put in your pounded Carcafes ; obferve that 
your Broth be well tailed ; put in a little of your Cullis, and 
ftraia it thro' a Strainer, afterwards put it into a little Pot, or 
Sauce-pan, and keep it hot. Pare off the Crufts of a French 
Roll, and put them in a Stew-pan ; put fome good Broth to 
your Crufis, and let them fimmer av/hile over the Stove, but 
take care there be no Fat : When enough, put them in your 
Soop-Dilh, garnilh the Rim with Chefnuts i put in your 
Pottage two large Pigeons, or two Partridges, with your 
Cullis over them ; and fcrve it hot. 

A Pottage cf Lentik. 

PU T a Quart of Lentils into a Gallon of Water, with 
two Pounds of good Ham, or pickled Pork, two Pounds 
of Mutton, two Pounds of Pork ; feafon with All-fpice and 
Salt ; put in a Faggot of Herbs, and ilove all very tender; 
faye a few whole to put into a French Roll for the Middle ; 
the rell pulp off as thick as Cream ; fo ferve away. Gar- 
nilh with Bacon and Lentils. 

To make Peas Pottage. 

TAKE two Quarts of Peas, put them into three Quarts 
of Water, feafon it pretty high, put in an Onion, boil 
them till they are enough ; then add a Spoonful of Flour, 
mix'd with Water, a little Mint, a Leek, and a Couple of 
Handfuls cf Spinach ; put in half a Pound of -freih Butter, 
and fome Forc'd-Mcat Balls, ftill it all till the Butter is melt- 
ed ; then diih it, and ferve it up to Table. 

Another Way. 

TAKE four Quarts of Peas, boil them in as little 
Water as will fuffice, till they are foft, and thickened ; 
in the mean Time boil a Leg of Mutton, and two or three 
Umbles of Veal, in another Pot, pricking them with a 
Knife to let out the Gravy ; boil them in juft fo much Wa- 
ter as is fufhcient to cover them : When you have boil'd all 
the Goodnefs out of the Meat, flrain the Liquor, put it into 
the Pulp of the Peas, let them boil together, put in a good deal 
of Mint, fome Thyme, and alfo a Piece of Bacon : When 

it 



22 ^he Lady's Companion. 

it is enough, diHi it, lay Rafhers of fry'd Bacon round the 
Difli ; pour in a good deal of Butter, and ferve it up. 

^0 make Spinach Pottage. 

TAKE the beft Part of the Spinach, mince it fine, 
and Hew k in a Pipkin with Peas-Soop. an Onion 
fluck with Clo^'es, a Carrot, and ether feafoning Ingredients. 
Set your Crufts a ioaking ; you may, if you like it, fcrape 
in feme Parmelan, and drefs your Pottage. Garnifli it with 
Sticks of Cinnamon round about, and lay one in the Middle, 
or fry'd Bread, or an Onion. 

To tnake Pottage ^j.iih Succory. 

BO I L a young Turkey, Capon, Pullet, or other Fowl, 
after the ufual Manner, with good Broth, Salt, Spice, 
and a Faggot of fweet Herbs ; fcald the Succory with Wa- 
ter, then boil it in your Broth ; drefs your Pottage, and lay 
it a foaking. Garnifh with Succory, and ferve it up with 
fome Broth, Mutton, Gravy, and MufJtirooms. 

To tnake Barley Pottage. 

LA Y a Pound of hull'd, or Pearl Barley, to fleep in two 
Quarts of Milk, boil it a lictle, then put in a Quart of 
Cream, fome Salt, Mace, and a Stick of Cinnamon, broken 
into fmall Pieces ; when it is thick enough, fcrape in fme 
Sugar, and ferve it up. 

A Millet Soop. 

ST E E P a Pound of Millet an Hour in good ftrong 
Broth ; then fet it on a gentle Fire to fimmer ; feafon 
with Salt and Mace, then put in two Pigeons, and a Quart of 
good Gravy ; ftove it two Plours, make a Rim of Pafte round 
the Edges, and lay fome Millet ftoved round, with fome 
Slices oi French Bread. 

A Veal Soop. 

CU T a Knuckle of Veal in Pieces, boil it with a Pal- 
let, and half a Pound of Jordan Almonds beat fmall, 
ftove it well, and very tender : You may boil a Chicken to 
lay in the Middle ; then iJ:im it clean, and feafon it wi:h 
Salt, and a blade of Mace, then take the Yolks of four Eggs, 
and beat them in a little good Broth ; (o draw it up as thick 
as Cream, and ferve it away hot. 

A Veal 



The Lady's Companion 



23 



A Veal Soop ^lith Barhy. 

YOUR Stock mull be with a Fowl, a Knuckle of Veal, 
and fome Mutton, feafoned only with Mace ; then 
ftrain all off; put in half a Pound of French or Pearl Barley ; 
boil it one Hour, feafon it well, and boil'in the Middle a 
Fowl, or two Chickens, and juft as you ferve it up put in 
chopped Parlley. 

Sicotch Barley-Broth. 

GE T a Neck, a Loin, or a Bread of Mutton, cut it to 
Pieces, waih it. put as much Water as will cover* it; 
then when it boils fkim it clean, and feafon it with Pepper 
and Salt, fome diced Carrots, Turnips, Ibme Onions, a Fag- 
got of Thyme andPaifley, and fome Barley ; ftove all this 
wel?' together J then l-cim it well : You may put in a Knuckle 
of Veal, or a Sheep's Head fmged, with the Wool on, foak- 
ed and fcraped, and it will be white ; fo ferve away with 
the Meat in your Broth. 

To make this green, inftead of Turnip and Carrot, take a 
Handful of red Beet Leaves or Broccolli, a Handful of the 
Blades of Onions, and a Handful of Spinach, walhed and 
(hred fmall. 

A Hodge-rodge. 

TAKE about fix Pounds of the Sticklng-piece, or Brif- 
cuit of Beef ; a Knuckle of Veal, a Cow-heel, and 
a Pig's Ear ; let them be a little more than covered with 
Water, put them on the Fire, keep fkimming them, and let 
them boil about an Hour ; then feafon them with Pepper 
and Salt j put in Carrots and Turnips, cut in handfome 
Pieces, not fliced, fome Onions, Beet Leaves, Sellery, 
Thyme, and V/inter-Savory in a Faggot, to be taken out 
again, then let them all llew over a moderate Fire above 
two Hours more. 

Another Way to make a Hcdge-Podge. 

TAKE fome of the lower End of a E: ilcuit of Beef, 
cut it into Pieces two Inches long and broad, put them 
into cold Water, then blanch them, afterwards put them into 
a Po!:, with a great many Carrots, Paifnips, and a few 
Turnips; tlv. n feafon with Pepper, Salt, a Bunch of fweet 
Pleibs, half a Dozen Onions, a Piece of Ham, and, if ycu 
think proper, a Piece of Cervelas ; then cover it with Slices 

of 



24 ^^^ Lady's Companion, 

of Beef, moiften it with Broth, cover the Pot, and put Fire 
nnder and over it, when done, take out the Meat and the 
Carrots ; then put the Brifcuit-piece, with other Meat, into 
a Stew-pan, and drefs your Carrots as neatly as you can, 
put them to your Meat, then ftrain off the Broth the Brifcuit- 
pieces were boiled in, with the reft of the Meat, fkim it 
well, and let it be well feafoned ; if there is too much Li- 
quor boil it to a fmaller Quantity j put fome Butter in a 
Stew-pan, with a Handful of Flour, flir it with a wooden 
Ladle till it is pretty brown, then moiflen it with the Broth 
of the Hodge-podge ; fkim it well, let it be well tailed; put 
to it Parfley cut fmall, and put over your Griftles of ^^Qf, 
and your Carrots ; keep it hot : Being ready to ferve up, 
place it in a Terrine, and ferve it for Entry. 
1 You may ferve it up in a Diih, as well as a Terrine ; you 
Aiay alfo add to it Mutton Griftles. 

To tiiake^ Pottage v:ith Ducks artd Turnips. 

TA K E a /Duck, draw and trufs it very neatly j blanch 
it, and/put a Piece of Beef in a Stew-pan, with a 
Piece of Nhitton, and your Duck ; fet all a doing flowly 
over the S^ve .; When your Pottage begins to flick to the 
Stew-pan, put fome good Broth into it, then take out your 
Meat, drain your Broth, and put it in a Pot with fome Tur- 
nips, Carrots, and Onions ; then put your Pot on the Fire, 
and make it boil gently ; in the mean Time cut fome Tur- 
* nips in the Form of Dice, or in any other Form you pleafe, 
to be thrown upon your Pottage, then blanch them, and 
put them in a fmall Pot of very good Broth, let them boil 
till they are enough : As foon as you are ready to ferve, take 
off the Crufls of a French Roll, and put them in a Stew- 
pan, ilrain fome good Broth upon them, without Fat, then 
let them fmimer over the Stove till they are tender ; when 
they are enough, put them in your Soop-Difh, garniHi the 
Rim of it with Turnips ready for that Purpofe ; then put 
in your Duck and the remaining Turnips, cut into fmall 
Dice j fill up your Soop-Dilh, and ferve it hot, but be fure it 
be well tafted. 

Young Geefe, Teals, Knuckles of Roe-bucks and wild 
Boars, at very grand Tables, may be fcrved in thcl'ke Pot- 
tages of Turnips ; as likewife Wood-pigeons and other 
Pigeons. 

A Pot- 



ne li A D y's Companion}-. 25 

A Pottage a la yacobir.e, 
iRepare a Brace of Partridges with a Chicken, and roail 
them, take ofF all the FlelTi, and chop it very fmall, 
then put it in a Stew-pan with a little CuUiSj then take all 
the Crumb out of a French Roll, and fill it with this minced 
Meat ; but obfcrve to keep fome to put upon your Pottage ; 
pouiid all your Partridge-bones, and put them in a Stew-pan, 
with a Spoonful or two of Broth, let them have only 
two Boils, and let them be well reliihed ; then ilrain them 
thro' a Strainer, and put the Liquor into a little Pot, with 
the reft of your minced Meat ; cut a FreKch Roll into very 
thin Slices at the Bottom of your Diui, and a Layer of 
glaced Par me fan Cheefe, and put a Row of Bread, continu- 
ing them alternately, till you have enough for the Pottage ; 
then put your Dilli on a Stove, -and put to it fome Broth > let 
it fimmer gently; being ready to ferve up, put lii yoxxxFrencPj 
Rolls, fluffed with the minced Meat, and fill it up very gently 
with good Broth : Garnilli the Pvim of your Dilh with Pieces 
■of PufF-pafte, cut in Triangles, throwing your CuUis over all ; 
ferve it hot. 

A Cow-Heel Pottage. 

PU T in your Pot fevcn or eight Pounds of Buttock of 
Beef, a Lt^ of Mutton cut in two, three or four Pounds 
of a Leg of VeaJ, and the Knuckle of a Ham j put your 
Pot over the Stove till the Meat fticks a little to it, then pour 
out fome Broth without Fat ; put in alfo a Fowl, and an old 
Partridge, fome Carrots, Parfnips, Turnips, and a Bunch of 
Sellery, and let it boil flowly : Then boil your Cow-Heel, 
and finifh the doing of it in a litde Braze, that is, in a good 
Seafoning ; v/hen all is ready take the Cruils ot French Rolls, 
and put them into a Stew-pan ,• ftrain fome clear Broth upon 
them, take off all the Fat, and let them foak and fimmer 
awhile over the Stove ; then put it into the Soop-Dilh, with, 
your Cow-Heel upon it. Laftly, fill it up with Broth, and 
ferve it very hot. Let it be well tailed. 

A Pottage o/' Forced Pigeons ivith bro'vjn Oniois. 

HAVING got fome large Pigeons, you mufl: pick, 
draw, and trnfs them well, loofen the Skin of the 
Breaft with your Finger, and force them with aForce-Meat 
thus : Get fome white Flefh of Fowls, or elfe a Piece of VeaK 
with a little Bacon and Calf's Udder, blanched and feafonVi, 
with Pepper, Salt; fweet Herbs and Spices ; a few Mufn- 
VoL, L C rooms. 



26 ^he Lady's Compan ion. 

rooms, Truffes, Parfley, and young Onions, three or four 
Yolks of raw Eggs, and a few Crun^bs of Bread boiled in 
Cream ; mince all well together, and pound them in a Mor- 
tar ; force your Pigeons with this Forced-Meat, flop the 
Vent of your Pigeons with a Skewer, and blanch them, 
leaving them but a Moment in the boiling Water, and 
pick them clean over again, and fet them a boiling in a Pot 
of good Broth. Take fome fmall round Onions, cut off 
the Ends, and blanch them in Water -, then peel them, and 
put them into a Pot with good Broth, and Veal Gravy, and 
fet them a boiling ; when boiPd, take them out very care- 
fully for fear of breaking them, and put them into a Sieve to 
drain : Take a French Roll, cut off the Cruil, and put it into 
a Stew-pan, and put to your Cruft the Broth your Onions 
were boiled in, and fet them to foak and fimmer ; when 
tender, put them in your Soop-Difh with your forc'd Pigeons 
epon them, and garnifh your Dilh with Onions, fill up your 
Soop-Difli wiih Veal Gravy, and fee that it is well tailed; 
ferve it hot. 

If you would have a Binding inllead of Veal Gravy, bind 
jtwith clear Culli's of Veal and Ham. 

Pottage of Turkies with Onions is made the fame Way. 

Pottage of Partridges. 

YOUR Partridges being picked, drawn, trufTed, and 
fcalded, lard them with middling Lards of Bacon well 
fealbned, and half roall them ; then take them off, and put 
them into a Pot with a Bundle of Roots, fome Onions, and 
fome good Broth ; fet them a boiling. Make a Cullis after 
this manner : Take a Pound or two of a Fillet of Veal, and 
a Piece of iHam, cut them in Slices to garnifh the Bottom 
of a Stew-pan, flice an Onion, Carrot, and Parfnip, and 
put the Whole cover'd up over a flow Fire ; when the Li- 
quor fticks to the Pan without burning, put in a little But- 
ter, and a Duil of Flour; tcfs that feven or eight Times 
over the Stove ; then wet it with half Gravy, half Broth^ 
and put in fome Crulls of Bread, a little Parfley, a Chibbol, 
Mufhrooms, Truii.es, and a very little fweet Bafil, and let all 
fmmier together j pound a roalied Partridge ; the Cullis be- 
ing enough, take cut the Slices of Veal, and put in the Par- 
tridge ; flialn it thro' a Strainer, and pu: it into the Pot, and 
keep it hot ; boil fome Crufts of French Rolls in the Soop- 
Difh you intend to ferve it in, or in a Stew-pan, with the 
Liquor that your Partridges were boil'd in j when tender, 

lay 



ne Lady's Companion. 27 

lay them in your Soop-Difh, and lay your Partridges hand- 
fomely upon them ; fee that your Cullis be well tailed, pour 
it upon your Pottage, and ferve it hot. 

A Pottage of Partridges a la Reine. 

HAVING picked, drawn, and trufled your Par- 
tridges, lard them with large Lardoons of Bacon, and 
half roaft them, then take them off the Spit, and put them 
into a Pot, with fome good Broth of a Piece of Beef and 
Veal ; fet them a boiling over a flow Fire, then take a Pound 
or two of a Fillet of Veal, and' a Piece of Ham, cut both 
into Pieces or Slices, and garnifh the Bottom of a Stew.pan, 
and add an Onion or two, a few Carrots and Parfnips ; fet 
them a fweating on a Stove flowly ; and v/hen they begin to 
flick to the Pan, and appear brown, pour in fome good Broth, 
and feafon the Whole with two or three Cloves, fome?«/Iufh- 
rooms cut in Slices, Parfley, Cives, and Crumbs of Bread ; 
let them all Hew together very flowly, and when they are 
well foaked, and the Veal and Ham enough, take them out 
of the Pan, and mix one of your Partridges, being pounded, 
in it. Then ftrain your Cullis over it, and put to it the Cruft 
of a French Roll, or two, foaked in fome of the Broth the 
Partridges were boiPd in ; put a Brace of roafted Partridges 
m the Middle, and ferve away hot. 

A Pottage a la Houzarde. 

TAKE two Chickens, pick them very clean, trufs 
them, and put them in the Broth- pot for half an Hour, 
then take them out, and cut them in Pieces as for a Fricafey, 
and put them into a Stew-pan with fome melted Butter, fea- 
foned with Pepper, Salt, fweet Herbs, and fine Spices, and 
rafped Bread, and Partnefan Cheefe, upon them, one after 
another, as you do Smelts, or fried Gudgeons; then put them 
handfomely in a Pafty-pan, and let them take a fine' Colour 
in the Oven. Take a French Roll, cut it in Slices, make a 
Layer of Bread in your Soop-Difh, and another of Parmt- 
fan Cheefe, another of Cabbage, and one of Bread over all, 
that the Cabbage may not appear; put your Difli on the 
Stove, with fome good Broth in it ; let it flmmer till the 
Bread be almofl dry ; then drudge it v/ith Parn:efan Cheefe, 
and brown it with the Cover of a Pafly-pan ; then fliove a 
thin Skimmer under your Bread in the Diih, and put in foine 
Broth till your Bread fwims in it. When it is ready to ferve, 
lay your Chickens on handfomely, and ferve it hot, 

C 2 Pottac-e 



.8 The Lad y^'s Com pan ion. 

Pctt^ge of Rice, the Polilh IVay^ called Rouflble. 
I C K and wafh your Rice very clean, put it in a- Pot 
with a Knuckle of Veal, and a Fowl cut in Quarters ; 
moillen them with hot Water, and let them boil very fiowlyf 
pat in a Handful of Pariley-Ieaves and Roots, a good Pinch 
oi Mace pounded, a Pinch of Pepper, and a Piece of Butter > 
fcoii it gently, and keep it from thickening ; give it a good 
Taftc, and juft before you ferve, put in a Handnil of Parf- 
ley, and difli up your Pottage in the Dilh you ferve it up in ; 
put ;v0ur quartered Fowl upon it, and ferve it up hot. 

A Rice Olio, wjith a Cuilis a la Reiiie. 

X> O I L a Fowl with your Rice, in a Pot of good Broth, 
^O ^nd make a white Culiis thus : Take a Piece of Veal 
2nd Ham, and cut them like fmall Dice, add an Onion, v/ith 
feme good Bioth; take the White of a roalled Fowl, and 
pound it in a Mortar ; when pounded, take the Meat out of 
your Cuilis, and put in the White of your pounded Fowl ; 
Strain it all through a Strainer, and put it to your P.ice, and 
put your Fo^vvl inthe Difh that you itrve. your Pottage in : 
Let it be well taficd, and ferve it hot. 

A Pottage of Spanilh Cardoons. 

rX"" A K E a Fievch Roll or two, and having cut off the 
JI^ Crulls, put them into a Stew-pan, with fome good 
Broth, let them take a Boil or two ; when your Crufts are 
tender, pit them in your Soop-Diili, and garnifh your Difli 
with Cardoons ; then Jay on your Crufts two Partridges, or 
two Pigeons, which you muft have ready, or elfe a little 
Loaf of Ficfitrolle and feme Hearts of Cardoons in thin 
Slices over it : Pour over it fome good VeaL Gravy half 
thickened, let it be well tafted, and ferve it hot. V/hen the 
Veal Gravy is thus prepared, then take a Pound and a half 
of a Fillet of Veal, and a little Piece of Ham, cut both in 
Slices, and garnifh the Bottom of a large Stew-pan with 
3t, and an Onion, a Carrot, and a Parfnip j cover it, and let 
It Hew gently on a Stove: When the Liquor ilicks to the 
Pan, and has taken a fine Colour, put in a Piece of Butter, | 
and drudge it lightly over with Flour, then tofs it round 
about feven or eight Times over the Stove, and put to it 
half good Broth, and half Gravy; feafon it with a white 
Chibbol, a little Pariley, a little fweet Bafil, a few M ufhrooms, 
?.nd Tiufflcs, if you have any, and with tv/o or three 

Cloves : 



- ^he L A D y's C o M p A N 1 o N V 29 

Cloves; let it all boil gently, tlien take out the Slices of 
Veal, and drain the reft through a Strainer ; let it be of a 
good' Colour, and ufe it to throw on your Pottage. 

Jn Onion Soop. 

TV\KE thirty Onions, face them thin, and fry them 
brown, but takeCiirc not to let them burn to the Pan;- 
drain them well from the Fat, then put them into a clean 
Stew pan^ with fome I'n^nll Broth, and let them flew till 
tender, then put in Pepper and Salt, to your Tafte, with' 
more Broth, and llir in half a Pound of Butter. Serve it up 
with fome Slices of Bread toafted, or dried before the Fire. 

Another Onion Soop. 

TAKE half a Pound of Butter, put it in a Stew-pan, 
on the Fire, let it all melt, and boil 'till it has done 
making any Noife ; then have ready ten or a Dozen mid- 
dling Onions peeled, and cut fmall, throw them into the 
Butter, and let them fry a Quarter of an Hour ; then fnake 
^in a little Flour, and llr them round ; fhake your ran, and 
let them do a i^^^' Minutes longer, then pour in a Quart or 
three Pints of boiling Water, ilir them round, take a good 
Piece of upper Cruil, of the ftaleft Bread you have, about 
&s big as the Top of a Penny Loaf, cut fmall, and throw 
it in ; feafon with Salt to your Palate, let it boil ten Minute?, 
ftirring it often ; then take it off the Fire, and hav^e ready th:3- 
Yolks of two Eggs beat fine, v/ith half a Spoonful of Vine- 
gar; mix fome of the Soop with them, then ftir it into your 
Soop, mix it well, and pour it into your Diih. 

Jn Egg Soop. 

E A T the Yolks of two Eggs in your Difh, with a Piece: 
of Butter as big as a Hen's Egg, take a Tea-kettle o/- 
boiling Water in one Hand, and a Spoon in the other, poiu" 
in about a Quart by Degrees, and keep ftirring it all tLe 
Time well, till the Eggs are well mix'd, and the Butter 
melted .; then pour it into a Sauce-pan, and keep ibrring it 
all the Time, till it begins to fimn::er; take it oft tl-ei'ire, and 
pour it between two Veilels, out of one into the other, till ir, 
is quite fmooth, and has a great Froth ; fet it on the Firj 
again, keep iKrring it 'till it is quite hot, then pour it into 
the Soop-Difn, and ferve it. 

C 3 A Ter. 



so Tbe Lady's Companion. 

ji Terrine a la Ba'varoi/e, 

TAKE half a Dozen Quails all ready truffed, four 
middling Pigeons, two young Rabbits ; cut off the 
Hind-Legs, and lard them with Eacon, and the Backs with 
fmall Bacon, cutofF the Heads and Flanks, and lard them 
alfo. Take an Eel cut in Pieces the Length of your Rab- 
bits ; put in your Stew-pan fome Slices of Veal and Ham, 
then put in your Quails and Legs of Rabbits, together with 
Champignons and Truffles j feafon it with Pepper, Salt, fweet 
Bafil, Onions, fome Slices of Lemons, and a Couple of 
GlafTes of White Wine -, cover them Top and Bottom alike, 
cover the Stew-pan, fet it a ftewing with Fire under and over; 
it being half done, put in your Pigeons, with Veal Sweet- 
breads, and let it flew till done : Your Eels and Rabbits 
being larded, put a Stew-pan over the Fire, with half a 
Bottle of White Wine, feafoned with Salt, Cloves, fweet Ba- 
iil, and Onions cut into Slices ; as foon as your Wine boils, 
put in your Eels, let them boil a little ; after that take them 
out, and put your Rabbits in a Stew-pan, with fome Slices of 
Ham and Veal ; moiften them with Broth, adding to it a 
Couple of Onions, and fo let them flew : When they are 
ilewed, take them out, flrain the Broth thro' a Silk Strainer, 
and put them again into your Stew-pan j then put them 
over the Fire, and let them ftew till they turn to CarameL 
This done, pot in your Rabbits and your Eels ; cover your 
Stew-pan, and put it upon hot Allies, that they may glaze, 
and your Eels niay be quite done : Take out your Quails, 
Pigeons, and Rabbits Legs, place them neatly in a Stew- 
pan ; put the Stew-pan wherein they have been doing over 
the Fire, and moiften with a Ladleful of Gravy, and as 
much Cullis ; Ikim it well, then ftrain olF this Cullis ; let 
it have a good Tafle; place your Quails, and Pigeons, ^c, 
in your Terrine, and pour your Cullis over them, with 
the Juice of a Lemon, and then your Rabbits and Eels 
glazed, crofs-ways, laid upon them, and ferve them up 
hot. 

A Spanifh Olio. 

TAKE fome Griflle of Beef from the lower Part of the 
Brifcuit, cut in Pieces, the Bignefs of two Fingers, and 
put them in Water ; take alfo fome Griftle of a Breaft of 
Mutton, and fome Griftle of a Breaft of Veal, and Sheeps 
Rumps, and cut them into handfome Pieces ; then garnifh a 

Broth- 



T^^ Lad y's Co MP A N I ON. 31 

Broth-pot all round with Slices of Beef, an Inch thick, and 
put in your Griftle of Beef, with a good Quantity of Roots, 
a Bunch of Sellery very neat, becaufe it muft be ufed in 
ferving up, a Bunch of Leeks, moiften the Whole with Broth ; 
and when the Beef is fomewhat forward, put in your Griftle 
of Veal and Mutton, and Sheeps Rumps, two Hogs Feet 
and Ears, two Partridges, two Pigeons, the Knuckle of a 
Ham, half a White Cabbage, being well blanched, drained, 
and tied up with Packthread ; feafon the Whole with Onions, 
and put in a Mignonette, and then cover it with Slices of 
Beef; take two Founds of Veal, cut them in Slices, and fet 
them to fweat gently over the Stove, till they flick to the 
Stew-pan, but don't let "fhem burn ; put fome good Broth into 
it, and put it in your Olio. You muft put to fteep over Night 
fomc Gravance, that is, Spani/h Peas, in lukewarm Water, 
in the Morning pick them clean one after another, then 
wafh them in hot Water, and boil them in a Sauce-pau 
with good Broth. Your Olio being done, give it the befl 
Tafte yon can ; then take out all your Meat and Roots, and 
put them in a large Diih ; range handfomely in the Diih or 
Olio-pot you ferve up in, your Grillles of Beef, Veal, Mut- 
ton, and Roots, which muil be well cleaned : When every 
Thing is in good Order in your Difii, then put in your Hogs 
Fe€t and Ears, Cabbage, Sellery, and Leeks, in the fame 
Form ; add laftly your Gravance, with a litde Olio Broth, 
and ferve it hot. You maft ferve it in covered China Cups, 
with Slices of toafied Bread as big as your two Fingers; fcl! 
each Cup with Broth, and put a Toail at their Sides, lake 
care yourBroth be well reliihed, and ferve it as hot as youi 
can. 

Another Way to make an Olio. 

FI L L a Pot that will hold three Gallons, with Waters 
put in a Rump of Beef, two Neats Tongues, green 
boiPd and larded, alfo a Couple of dry'd Neats Tongues, 
and Bolognia Saufages ; boil them together, fkim the Pot 
well ; and when they have boil'd two Hours, put in Mutton, 
Pork, Venifon, and Bacon, cut in Bits as big as a Duck's 
Egg ; put likewife Turnips, Carrots, Onions, and Cabbage, 
cut in Pieces, the Bignefs of your Meat ; fome Borage, En- 
dive, Marigolds, Sorrel, and other fvveet Herbs, grofiy Ihred, 
and fome Spinach whole ; and you may alfo add French Ear- 
ley, or Limes, dry or green. A little before you difh your Olio 
out, put in fome Saffron, Cloves, Mace, Nutmeg, ^c. Then 

C 4 put 



3 2 The L A D Y' s C o m p a n i o ic.' 

put into another Pot a Goofe or Turkey; Capons, Pheafants, 
Widgeons, and Ducks, two of each ; Partridges, Teals, and 
Stock-Doves, four of each -, Snipes, naif a Dozen ; Quaib, 
two Dozen ; and Larks four Dozen ; boil them in Water 
and Salt. Alfo fet on in a Pipkin, with a little White Wine, 
ilrong Broth, and fweet Butter, Bottoms of Articho.ks, and 
Chefnuts boiPd, andblanch'd, with a Couple of Cauliflowers, 
ibme Bread, Marrow, Yolks ofhardEo;gs, large Mace, and 
Saffron : V/hen thefe are ready, difli your Olio thus : Firft, 
your Veal, Beef, or Pork ; then your Venifon, Mutton, 
Tongues, Saufages, and Roots over them all : Then next lay 
your largell Fowls : As firft a Gcofe or Turkey, a Couple 
of Capons, a Couple of Pheafants, four Ducks, four Wid- 
geons, four Stock-Doves, four Partridges, eight Teals, 
twelve Snipes, twenty -four Quails, and forty-eight Larks. 
Then pour in your Broth, and y ut on your Pipkin of Cauli- 
iiowers, Artichoaks, Cheinuts, fonie Sweetbreads fry'd. Yolks 
of hard Eggs, Marrow boiled in Ilrong Broth, Pilachoes, 
Mace and Saffron, all being finely ftewed i over all, fome red 
Beets, Slices of Lemon, Lemon-peel whole, and run it over 
with beaten Butter. 

Another Way.^ 

''""T^AKE any Sort of good Meat, Part of a Buttock of 
I. Beef, a Leg of Mutton, a Fillet of Veal, fonie raw 
Gamnrion, Chickens, Pigeons, Partridges, and Quails, and 
fome Saufages, and a Cervelas, all roafted or fry'd brown : 
Put all thefe into a Pot, one after another, according to the 
Time that each will require for boiling it, and make a 
thickening Liquor of brown Sauce to be mingled together. 
V/hen it boils, ikim it well, feafon your Meat with Salt, 
Pepper Ginger, Nutmeg, Cio^'es, and Coriander Seed, 
pounded together ; then add fome fweet Bafil and Thyme, 
tied up in a Linnen Cloth, then fcald Turnips, Carrots, 
Parfnips, Leeks, Onions and Parfley Roots ; alfo Cabbage, 
and other Herbs in Bunches. Vv^hen your Pottage is boiled, 
break fome Crufts in Pieces, and lay a foaking in the Broth, 
hai'ing taken oittbe Fat, and feafoned it v.'ell. Before you 
ferve it up, put in a good deal more of the Broth, having 
taken off the Fat ; then drefs your Meats and Fowls \ garnifh 
them with Roots. 

/in 



The L A dy's Companion... 33 

An Olio for Dayj t>f Ahfiinence. 

GET Fiih Broth, and good Peas Soop. pat them Into 
a Pot, Vv'ith the Herbs and Ps.oots mentioned in the. 
other Receipt for Olio's, and let them boil together as long, 
as is requifite j then drefs your Olio, with a Loaf of \vhit& 
Bread-in the Midft of it, and garnifn with Roots. 

^ Rice Olio, nj:ith a Cullis (T/'Crawfilh. 

WASH fome Rice very clean, and put it in a Pot of 
good Broth; make it boil very flowly, and add half a- 
Dozen live Crawiilli : When your Rice is done enough, and 
well tailed, pour upon it a good Cullis of CrawHlli, v/ith the 
Tails J take the Crawfiih out of your Pottage, and ferve it 
hot. 

A Pottage o/' Wood-Pigeons, hy ivoy of^an Olio. 

AFTER your Wood-Pigeons are trufTed, blanch them 
in Water, and put them in the Pot with fome good 
Gravy, a Bunch of Roots, fuch as Carrots, Turnips, Parf- 
nips, C5>. fome young Onions, a Faggot of Seliery, and a- 
Bunch of fweet Herbs ; when all are boiled, prepare the 
Cruils of Rolls as ufual, in the fame Broth your Wood- 
Pigeons are done in ; then put the Bread in your Soop-Difii, 
and over it your Wood-Pigeons. Garnifh the Rim of yo'or 
Difli with the Roots, pouring in good Veal Gravy over' 
all ; then ferve it hot : The Garniture fliould only jull cover 
the Rim of the Difh, in order to have Room for the Soop. 

You may make Ufe of Quails, or any other Fowl, and 
Wood-Pigeons may ferve for Cabbage Soop, as you think, 
fit. 

A Pottage of Teals, or other Birds, ^ivith Muihrooms. 

GET fome Teals, or fuch like Birds, drav/ and trufs 
them; lard them with large Lardoons of Bacon Vvdi 
feafoned, then half roall: them, and take them off, and fet 
them a doing in a Pet, with fome good Broth, Pepper, 
and Salt, and a Bun-.h of fweet Herbs; wh:-n they arc half 
done, have fome picked Muihrooms in Readinefs, cut thein 
in fmall Dice, and tofs them in melted Bacon, putting two 
good Pinches of Flour to them ; your Mufnrooms being 
enough, put them inco the Pot where your Teals are boiU 
ing, let them all boil well together j when the B/oth is 
C 5 enough 



34 ^^ LaD-v'S CoftPANION. 

enough, order the Crufts of French Rolls as ufual, and put 
them in your Soop-Difli, and put your Teals on the Crufts ; 
and before you fervc up, put fome good Gravy to them, with 
the Juice of a Lemon. Garnifh the Rim of your Difh with 
Muflirooms prepared in the following manner : Take as 
many fmall Mufhrooms as will ferve to garnilh your Dilh, 
pick and walh them, and put them in a Stew-pan, with the 
Juice of a Lemon, a little Salt, and fome Broth ; when they 
are done, garnifh the Rim of your Difh with them; but let 
them be very white : Another Time you may force them for 
the fame Garniture. 

A Bain-Marie. 

GE T three Pounds of Beef, three Pounds of Fillet of 
Veal, and a Pound of a Leg of Mutton, the whole 
without its Fat, with a Capon and a Partridge ; take an- 
carthen Pot big enough to hold all this Meat -, fcald the Pot 
before you ufe it, then put into it the Meat aforefaid, and 
ieafon it with an Onion ftuck with two Cloves, and a little 
Salt, pour into it three Pints of Water, cover the Pot, and 
flop it round clofe with Parte and Paper, to keep in the 
Steam, Put on the Fire a large Kettle of Water, and fet 
it a 'boiling; then put your earthen Pot into this Kettle, 
and keep fo much Water always boiling, ready to put into 
the Kettle, as the other waftes, keep always filling fo for the 
Space of five Hours ; after which, take it off, and open it, 
and flrain the Broth thro' a Sieve or Napkin, let it fettle. 
This is ufed for fick People, or to foak Crufts in for Pot- 
tages; and when you have a Mind to do it with Rice, yoa 
need only to fill the Belly of the Capon with Rice, picked, 
very clean, and do it the fame Way as above-mentioned. 

Plumb-Pottageyor Chriftmas. 

TO ten Gallons of Water take a Leg and Shin of 
Beef, boil it very tender, and when the Broth is 
ftrong enough, ftrain it out, wipe your Pot, and put the 
Broth in again ; flice fix Frerich Rolls, the Crumb only, and 
mittony it, that is, foak it in fome of the Fat of the Broth 
over a Stove a Quarter of an Hour, then put in five Pounds of 
Currants well wafhed, five Pounds of Raifms, and two Pounds 
of Prunes ; let them boil till they fwell ; then put in three 
Quarters of an Ounce of Mace, half an Ounce of Cloves, 
two Nutmegs, all of them beat fine, and mix it with a 
little Liquor cold, and put them in a very little while. 

Take 



T 



The Lady's Companion. 35 

Take ofFthe Pot, and put in three Pounds of Sugar, a little 
Salt, a Quart of Sack, and a Quart of Claret, the Juice of 
two or three Lemons. You may put in a little Sagoe if you 
like it. Pour this into earthen Pans to keep it for Ufe. 

jinother. 

A K E two Gallons of flrong Broth, put to it two 
Pounds of Currans, two Pounds of Raifins of the 
Sun, half an Ounce of fweet Spice, a Pound of Sugar, a 
Quart of Claret, a Pint of Sack, the Juice of three Oranges 
and three Lemons ; thicken it with grated Bifcuits, or Rice 
Flour, with a Pound of Prunes. 

Plumb Pottage another Way. 

TA K E a Leg of Beef, and four Gallons of Water, 
boil it till the Beef is tender, then ftrain it off, and put 
the Liquor in the Pot again, then put in a Pound of Prunes, 
a Quarter of an Ounce of Cloves, half an Ounce of Mace, 
two Nutmegs beat and put in a Bag; let it boil half an Hour, 
then put in five Pounds of Currans, and three Pounds of 
Raifms, and let it boil half an Hour longer j then put in 
a Quart of llrong Beer, and let it boil up, then take it off, 
and put in two Pounds of Sugar, the Juice of two Lemons ; 
put it in an earthen Pan, and keep it for Ufe. Serve it hot 
in as you want it. 

I0 make a Veal Glue, or Cake Scop, to he carried in tht 

Pocket, 

TA K E a Leg of Veal, ftrip it of the Skin and the Fat, 
then take all the mufcular or flefhy Parts from the 
Bones ; boil this Flelh gently in fuch a Quantity of Water, 
and fo long a Time, till the Liquor will make a flrong Jelly 
when it is cold : This you may try by taking out a fmall 
Spoonful now and then, and letting it cool. Here it is to 
be fuppofed, that though it will jelly prefently in fmall 
Quantities, yet all the Juice of the Meat may not be extrad- 
ed ; however, when you find it very ftrong, ftrain the Li- 
quor through a Sieve, and let it fettle ; then provide a large 
Stew-pan, with Water, and fome China Cups, or glazed 
earthen Ware ; fill thefe Cups with Jelly taken clear from 
the Settling, and fet them in a Stew-pan of Water, and let 
the V/ater boil gently till the. Jelly becomes as thick as 
Glue ; after which, let them Hand to cool, and then turn out 

the 



36 



^he Lady's Companion, 



the Glue upon a Piece of new Flannel, which will draw 
out the Moillure ; turn them once in fix or eight Hours, 
and put them upon a frefh Flannel, and fo continue to do till 
they are quite dry, a :d keep it in a dry warm Place : This 
will harden fo much, that it will be iblit and hard as Glue 
in a little Time, and may be carried in the Pocket with- 
out Inconvenience. You are to ufe this by boiling about a 
Pint of Water, and pouring it upon a Piece of the Glus or 
Cake, about the Bignefs of a fmall Walnut, and fiirring it 
with a Spoon till the Cake difiblves, which will make very 
ftrong good Broth, As for the feafoning Part, every one 
may add Pepper and Salt as they like it, for there rauft be 
nothing of that Kind put am.ong the Veal v. hen you make 
the Glue, for any Thing of that Sort would make it mouldy. 
As we haveobferved above, that there is nothing of Seafon- 
ing in this Soop, {o there may be always added what you 
defire, -either of Spices or Herbs, to make it iavoury to the 
Palate ; but it mull be noted, that all the Herbs that are ufed 
oh this Occafion, muft bs boiled tender in plain Vv^ater, and 
that Water muft be ufed to pour upon the Cake Gravy in- 
ilead of fimple Water : So may a Dilh of good Soop be 
made without Trouble, only allowing the Proportion of 
Cake Gravy anfwering to the abovefaid Diredion : Or if 
Gravy be wanted for Sauce, double the Quantity may be ufed 
that is prefcribcd for Broth or Soop. There has been made 
a, Cake Gravy of Beef, v>'hich, for high Sauces and fb'ong 
Stomachs, is ftill of good Ufe ; and, therefore, we fliali 
here give the Method of it. 

To wake Cake Soop of Beef, l^c 

GET a Leg, or what they call, in fome Places, a Shin 
of Beef, prepare it as prefcribed above for the Leg 
of Veal, and ufe the mufcular Parts only, as direded in the 
foregoing Receipt, doing every Thing as above-mentioned, 
and you will have a Beef Glue, which, for Sauces, may be 
"more defirable in a Country Houfe, as Beef is of the 
ftrongeft Nature of any Flelh : Some prefcribe to add to the 
Flelh of the Leg of Beef, the Flefh of two old Hares, and 
of old Cocks, to ftrengthen it the more ; this may be done 
at Pleafure, but the Stock of all thefe Cakes, Gravies, or 
Glues, is the Firft. Thefe, indeed, are good for Soops and 
Sauces, and may be enriched by Sellery, Chervil, Be^f, 
Chards, Leeks, or other Soop Herbs. A little of this is 

alfQ 



The L A D y's C O M P A N I O N", ^f 

alfo good to put into Sauces, either of Flefh, Fifli or Fowl, 
and will make a fine Mixture with travelling Sauce. 

To make Broth /J/- Breakfaft. 

TAKE the Chine of a Rump of Beef, the Crag End 
of a Neck of Mutton, a Neck of Veal, a Knuckle. 
of Veal, and a Couple of Chickens : Found the White, or 
Breafts of the Chickens in a Mortar, with fome Crumb- 
Bread foaked in Broth. Then all being well feafoned, ftraiti 
it through a Sieve, and pour it on Crufts of Bread, laid 
fmim.ering in the fa:ne Broth. 

^0 make White Broth. 

PARBOIL a Capon or Pullet ; take the Flefh from the 
Bones ; put it into a Stew-pan over a Chaf.ng-Difh of 
Coals, add to it as much boii'd Cream as you think will 
be fufhcient; thicken it with Eggs, Flour and Rice, and add 
the Marrow of one Bone, and lome of the Broth the Fowl 
wasboiPd in, a Gill of Mountain, or Sack; feafon with Salt, 
and, when fufhciently thicken'd, ferve it up. 

% make Calves -Feet-Broth. 
OIL the Feet in juft fo much Water as will make a good 
Jelly, then (train it, and fet the Liquor on the Fire 
againj putting in two or three Blades of Mace ; put about 
half a Pint of Sack to two Quarts of Brodi, ; add half a 
Pound of Currants pick'd and v^aih'd, and when rhey are 
plurap'd, beat up the Yolks of two Eggs, and mix thv^ni with 
a little of the cold Liquor, and thicken it carefully over a 
gentle Fire i then feafon it with Salt, and fweeten it with Su- 
gar to your Palate ; then ftir in a Bit of Butter, then put in 
.the Ji-'ice and Peel of a freOi Lem.on, jull before you take it oiF. 

Mutton Broth. 

TAKE a Neck of Mutton about fix Founds, cut it in 
two, boil the Crag in a Gallon of Water, Ikim it well, 
then put in fweet Herbs, an Onion, and a Cruft of Bread. 
When it has boiled an Hour, put in the other Part of the 
Mutton, a Turnep or two, a few Cives, and a little Pariley 
chopped fmall; feafon it with Salt; you may put in a Quar- 
ter of a Pound of Barley or Rice, but fome like it thickened 
with Oatmeal, fome with Bread, arthey fancy. If you boil 
Turneps for Sauce, don't boil them all with. the Brotli, they 
will make it too llrong. 

^ A good. 



38 The Lady's Companiok, 

jf good fa'voury BrOth for Mornings. 

MAKE very good Broth with fome Lean of Veal, 
Beef, and Mutton, and with a brawny Hen, or young 
Cock ; after it is fkimm'd, put in an Onion quartered, and, 
if you like it, a Clove of Garlick, a little Parfley, a Sprig 
of Thyme, as much Mint, a little Balm, fome Coriander 
Seed bruifed, and a very little Saffron, a little Salt, Pepper, 
and a Clove, when all the Subftance is boiled out of the 
Meat, and the Broth very good, you may drink it fo, or 
pour a little of it upon toailed diced Bread, and flew it till 
the Bread has foak'd up all that Broth, then add a little more, 
and ftew ; fo adding Broth by little and little, that the Bread 
may imbibe it and fwell ; whereas, if you drown it at once, 
the Bread will not fwell, and grow like a Jelly j and thus 
you will have a good Pottage : You may add Cabbage, or 
Leeks, or Endive, or Parfiey-Roots, in the due Time, be- 
fore the Broth has ended boiling, and Time enough for them 
to become tender. In the Summer you may put in Lettuce, 
Sorrel, Purflane, Borrage, and Euglofs, or what other Pot- 
Herbs you like ; but green Herbs take away the Strength 
and Cream of the Pottage. 

To make an Afparagus Scop. 

TAKE twelve Pounds of lean Beef, cut in Slices, then 
put a Quarter of a Pound of Butter in a Stew-pan 
over the Fire, and put your Beef in ; let it boil up quick till 
it begins to brown, then put in a Pint of brown Ale, and a 
Gallon of Water, cover it clofe, and let it ftew gently for 
an Hour and half ; put in what Spice you like in the Stew- 
ing, and ftrain out the Liquor, and fkim off all the Fat ; 
then put in fome Vermicelli, and fome Sellery, wafhed and 
cut fmall, half an Hundred of Afparagus cut fmall, and Pa- 
lates boiled tender, and cut ; put all thefe in, and let them 
boil gently till tender ; juft as it is going up, fry a Handful 
of Spinach in Butter, and throw in a French Roll. 

Another Way. 

HAVING got fom.e ftrong Beef Broth, or Mutton, or 
both, boil in it a large brown Toaft, a little Flour fift- 
ed from Oatmeal, and three or four Handfuls of Afparagus 
cut fmall, fo far as they are green, fome Spinach, white 
Beets, and what Herbs you like, a little Sellery, and a few 
Sprigs of Parfley ; bake fome fmall white Toafls, butter 
^ ^ them. 



J'he Lady's Companion. 39 

them, and pour your Soop upon them ; the brown Bread 
muft be ftrained ofF before your Afparagus is put in ; then 
feafon it to yourTafte. 

J Cucumber Soop. 

TAKE a Houghil of Beef^ break it fmall, and put it 
into a Stew-pan, with Part of a Neck of Mutton, a 
little whole Pepper, an Onion, and a little Salt j cover it 
withWater, and let it {land all Night, then flrain it, and take 
off the Fat; pare fix or eight middle-fiz'd Cucumbers, and 
nice them, not very thin, flew them in a little Butter, and 
a little whole Pepper J take them out of the Butter, and put 
them into the Gravy. Garnifh your Difh with Rafpings of 
Bread, and ferve it up with Toafts of Bread, or French RolL 

An Onion Soop, callecf, The K i n g's Soop. 

TAKE fome Onions cut in very thin Slices, flew them 
till tender, in a fmall Quantity of Water, then acid 
Milk, let it all boil together, at half leafl an Hour, with a 
pretty many Blades of Mace, and a Quarter of a Pound of frefti 
Butter J a little before it is taken up, thicken it. with the 
Yolks of two Eggs well beaten, and fome Parfley, pick'd 
and chopp'd very fmall ; fait to your Tafte : Serve it up 
with Toails cut in Dice. 

About four large Onions will do to two Quarts of Milk. 

A Purflane Soop. 

WHEN your Purflane is young you need only cut the 
Sprigs off, but keep their whole Length j boil them 
in a fmall Kettle, with fome Peas Soop and Onion-juice, 
both of the fame Quantity ; when your Purflane is boiled 
enough, foak fome Crumbs in Broth, then difh and garnifh 
it with the faid Purflane ; let thei Broth be relifh'd, pour it 
over, and ferve it up hot. 

To make Pottage nuiihout Water. 

TA K E a good Piece of Beef, a Piece of Mutton, and 
fome Fillet of Veal, a Capon, a Couple of Partridges, 
and four Pigeons ; let your Meat be well beaten, and your 
Fowls well trufs'd, then put them into a Pot with Parfnips 
and Onions fhred, and Parfley Roots, feafon them with Salt, 
and all manner of fvveet Herbs ; flop up the Edges of your 
Pot with Paper and Pafle, fo as all the Steam may be kept 
yi, and that no Air may come out or get in i fet this Pot in- 
to 



40 '2'b.e L A D V 's G o m p a n jo n .. 

to a Kettle of hot Water, the void Places ftuff 'd with Hay, 
to keep the Pot upright and ileady. Keep the Kettle conti- 
nually boiling for fix or eight Hours ; then uncover it, pour 
ofF all the Gravy of the Meat, and clear it fi-om the Fat j 
then take out your Fowls and mince them, and farce a Loaf 
with them, with good Garnitures ; then foak both the Loaf 
and Soop in good Gravy, and make a Ragoo of all Sorts of 
Garnitures fry'd in Lard, pour thefe upon them ; then drefs. 
the whole Mefs with farc'd Cocks-Combs, Veal Sweetbreads, 
or fomething elie of the like Nature, and ferve it uo to 
Table. 

7o make Pottage the French Way. 

TA K E hard Lettuce, Sorrel an(J Chervil, of each a like 
Quantity, or any other Herbs you like, as much as a 
half Peck will hold prefs'd down; pick, Walh them, and 
drain them, put them into a Pot with a Pound of frefh Butter, 
and fet them over the Fire, and as the Butter melts, fiir 
them down in it, 'till they are all as low as the Butter ; then 
put in fome Water, a little Salt, fome whole Cloves, and a 
Cruft of Bread, and when it is boiPd, take out the Cruft 
cf Bread, and put in the Yolks of a Couple of Eggs wdl 
beaten, and llir them together over the Fire; lay into a 
deep Dilh fome thin Slices of white Bread 3 pour it in, ferve 
i/up. 

Another French Pottage. 

TAKE about eight or ten Pounds of Beef, and two or 
three Knuckles of Veal, and a few fweet Herbs tied 
up together, and half a Dozen Anchovies ; boil them in 
three Quarts of Water, until 'tis boiled away to threr Piws^; 
then ftrain through a thin Cloth, and when you are ready to 
ufe, take as much as will ferve your Turn, and fet it over 
a Charcoal Fire ; then talte a Duck or Pullet, and take off 
the Skin; then take a few fweet Herbs, and (hred them fmall; 
then take two or three Eggs, and a little Nutmeg and Salt, 
and beat them all together ; then roll the Duck or Pullet in 
them, and roaft it yellow, and lay it in the Middle of the 
Difh ; then take fome fr^/r^ Bread, cut Sippets thin, take.a 
little Spinach and Parlley and cut it together, but not very 
fmall, and put them a-top of the Pottage, and ferve them 
up. 



^^he L A D Y 'S C O M- P-A N I N'. 4I 

^0 make Pottage the Italian Way. 

BOIL green Feas in fome ftrong Broth, with interlarded 
Bacon cut into Slices j when the Peas are boiled, put 
to them Pepper, Annifeeds, and chopp'd Parfley, and ftrain 
feme of the Peas to thicken the Broth ; let it have a Walm 
or two, and ferve it on Sippets with boiPd Chickens, Pigeons, 
Lamb's Head, Duck, or any Fowl \ you may, if you pleafe, 
thicken the Broth with Eggs. 

A Pottage a la Reive. 

BEAT Almonds, and boil them in good Broth, a few^ 
Crumbs of Bread, the Infide of a Lemon, and a Bunch 
of fweet Herbs, ftir them often, ftrain them, then foak 
Bread in the bed Broth, 'vhich is to be thus made; bone a 
Capon or Partridge, pound the Bones in a Mortar, then boil m 
them in ftrong Broth, with IVlufhrooms, then ftrain themJli 
through a Linen Cloth, with this Broth foak your Bread .: as 
it foaks, fprinkle it with the Almond-broth : Then put a lit- 
tle minced Meat to it, either oCPartridge or Capon, and Hill 
as it is foaking, put in more Almond-brorh, until it be full, 
then hold a red-hot fron over it j garnilli the Dilh with. 
Pomegranates, PiUachoes, and Cocks-combs. 

^0 make Pottage de Sante. 
T) U T into a Pot good Broth, made of Buttock of Beef, 
X Knuckle of Veal and Mutton, together with Capons or 
fat Pullets ; feafon the Broth very well, then foak in fome 
Cruftf, while you are boiling Sorrel, Purflane, Chervil, ^r. 
in another Pot, all cut very fmall -, with thefe Herbs you 
may garnifn your Pottage and Fowls, or you m.ay ftrain 
them, fo that you may put nothing in it but the Broth and 
good Gravy when you ferve it up to Table, 

To -make Pottage Profitrolle. 

TA-K E a French Loaf, farce it, and foak it in good 
Veal Gravy, and good Broth ; drefs it upon other 
foaked Cruils, with a little of Partridge or Capon Hafh ; 
then having a good Cullis ready, with the Meats of which 
the Gravy was made, flrain it, and pour it upon the Pot- 
tage; when you ferve it up, lay a handfome Artichoke Bot- 
tom upon the Loaf, with fome Mufhrooms on the Infide j 
garnifh with Fricandoes or Veal Sweetbreads. 

Summet 



42 ne Lady^s Companion. 

Summer Pottage. 

TA K E a Shin of Beef, Scrags of Mutton or Veal, chop 
the Meat in Pieces, and boil them gently in a fufficient 
Quantity of Water for fix or eight Hours, being covered 
clofe ; when they have boiled three or four Hours, put in 
two or three Onions, and half an Ounce of white whole Pep- 
per, tied up in a Linen Rag j when the Meat is boiPd to 
Rags, drain all through a coarfe Hair Sieve, fqueeze it hard, 
then put in fome Nutmeg, Cloves, and Mace, put in a fmall 
Faggot of fweet Herbs, of Sorrel, Beets or Endive, and 
Spinach, of each a Handful, Ihred groily; boil thefe for a 
while, then difh up your Pottage with roailed Pigeons or 
Ducks in the Middle of it, and fmall Slices of Bacon fry'd, 
toafted white Bread in fquare Slices, Saufages cut into little 
Bits, and fry'd Balls ; you may a]fo add Gravy and Palates, 
and Cocks-combs boiled in Water tender, and peel'd, cut 
into long Bits ; in Afparagus Time, add Afparagus cut into 
Bits, with long green Peas put in before the Herbs j before 
you ferve it up, while you are difhingofit, fet it over a 
Chafing-difli, and make it boil ; and boil the Palates and 
Cocks-combs in a tittle Broth, before you put them into the 
Pottage ; you may alfo add Lamb-ftones and Sweetbreads, if 
you pleafc. 

To make Pottage ivitbtut the Sight of Herbs ^ 

MINCE feveral Sorts af fweet Herbs very fine, Spi* 
nach. Scallions, Parfley, Marygold Flowers, Suc- 
cory, Strawberry, and Violet Leaves, Itamp them with Oat- 
meal in a Bowl or Mortar j then ftrain them with fome of 
your Broth, boil your Oatmeal and Herbs, with Mutton, 
feafon with Salt, ^c. when all is enough, ferve it up on 
Sippets. 

7o mah Broth iJoUh Flefh. 

TAKE Slices of Beef, of a Fillet of Veal, and of a 
Leg of Mutton roafted, without any Fat ; put thefe 
into the Pot when the Water is cold, let it boil over a gentle 
Fire, Ikim it well ; then add your Fowls, according to what 
Soop you would have. If it be for Bifques, boil in this 
Broth, Chickens, Quails, or Pigeons, each of them by 
themfelves, with Slices of fat Bacon and Lemon to keep them 
very white ; and you muft likewife add to your Stock of 
Broth fome Fowls to flrengthen it. Let it be feafon'd with 
^ Salt, 



ne Lady's Companion. 43 

Salt, Roots, Onions, and Cloves, and boil it as long as you 
think fit. 

This is a general Broth to be ufed to moiflen all Sorts of 
Cullifes made of Flefh and Legumes. It ferves for alf Sorts 
of Soops ; it is nothing but the different Meats we put to 
them and the Garnilhing, whether they be Cullifes or Le- 
gumes, that diftinguifti the different Soops from one an- 
other. 

Fat Broth. 

BOIL Fart of a Buttock and Leg of Beef with other 
Meat, and take out the Grav/ and Broth, and flrain 
it thro' a Linen Cloth ; then boil them a fecond Time, and 
take out the Broth again, keeping both thefe Sorts hot a- 
part. The firit will be good'to be put to Capons, young 
Turkeys,Veal, and other farced Meats, that are to be ferv'd 
up in white Pottage. 

Capon or Veal Broth ought to be ufed to foak young 
Pigeons for Bifques ; and with the Broth of the Bifques a 
CuUis may be made for Pottages a la Reine and a la Royale, 
And the Broth of farced Meats will ferve to make a CuUis 
for the fame Sorts of Meat, viz, youag Turkeys and Pul- 
lets, Knuckles and Breads of Veal, and other Joints of 
Meat, that ought to be farc'd and parboiled. 

The fecond Sort of Broth is to put into brown Pottages, 
nfiz. Ducks, Teals, Rabbits, Ringdoves, Larks, Pheafants, 
Thruflies, Cabbage, Turnips, and other Roots; and the 
brown Ingredients, which ferve to thicken them, are to be 
mixed with the fame Broth. 

To make Fifh Broth. 

TAKE Tenches, Carps, Pikes, and Eels, prepare them 
for boiling ; then cut them in Pieces, and put them 
into a Kettle with Water, Salt, Butter, an Onion ftuck with. 
Cloves, and a Bunch of fweet Herbs. Let it boil an Hour 
and half, then flrain it through a Napkin, and divide it into 
three lefTer Kettles : Into one of them put the Pickings or 
CuUings of Mufhrooms, and flrain them through a Sieve 
with a CuUis, a flic'd Lemon, and fome fry'd wheaten 
Flour. ' 



Auaihtf 



44 'T^^ Lad y's Co m p a n i^ n--. . 

Another Fifh Broth. 

CU T Onions, Carrots, and Parfnips into Slices, then 
put them into a Stew-pan with a Lump of Batter, and 
fet them a ftevving with Juice of Onions : When thefe are be- 
come brown, put them into the Stew-pan, and give them 
two or three Turns : Let the whole be moiftened with a 
clear Puree ; then put in a Bunch of Parfiey, Gives, fweet 
Herbs, Salt, and Cloves, and fome Mulhrooms : Let all thefe 
boil together for an Hour ; then ftrain it thro' a Sieve into 
another Kettle, anu ufe it to fimmer Fifh 5oops. 

i^ff/f. That Carp is the beft Fifh to make Filh Broth. 

Another Fiih Broth. 

SE T fome Water over the Fire in a Kettle proportioned 
to the Quantity of Broih you would make ; put in the 
Roots of Parfiey, Parfnips, and whole Onions, all Sorts of 
Pot Kerbs, a Handful of ParHey, and Sorr 1 end Butter ; let 
the whole be well feafoned ; then put in the Bones and Car- 
cafes of the Fi(h, the Flelh of which you have ufed for 
Farces, and alfo the Tripes of theni, being well clean'd, 
feme Tails of Crawfifh pounded in a Morrar, and four or 
five Spoonfuls of the Juice of Onions ; let this be all well 
feafoned and boiled, then ftrain it throagh a Sieve ; put it 
back into the Kettle, and keep it hot to fimmer your Soops, 
to boil your Fifh and other Things. 

^0 make Meagre Broth for Scop ivith Herbs. 

SE T on a Kettle of Water, put in two or three Crufls of 
Bread, and all Sorts of Kerbs, feafon it with Salt ; put 
in Butter, and a Bunch of fweet Herbs ; boil it for an Hour 
and a Half, then ftrain it through a Sieve or Napkin. This 
will ferve to make Lettuce Soop, Artichoak Soop, Afparagus 
Soop, Succory Soop, and Soop defante with Herbs. 

Jelly Broth for Ccnfumpi^je Perfons. 

G£ T a Joint of Mutton, a Capon, a Fillet of Veal, and 
three Quarts of Water, put thefe in an earthen Pet, 
and boil them over a gentle Fire till one Half be confumed ; 
then fqueeze all together, and f:rain the Liquor thro' a Lin- 
nen Cloth. 



J Pot- 



ne L A D y'S C O M P A N I O N. 45^ 

^ Pottage o/' Goofe-Gibblets. 

WHEN you have fcalded and cleaned your Goofe^' 
Gibblets, boil them in foir.e good Broth, feafoned 
with a Bunch of fvveet Herbs and Salt ; when they are 
boil'd cut them into Pieces, and put them in a Stew-pan • 
then put a white Cullis, or a green or Lentil Cuilis, and 
keeping them hot, take the Crulls of a French P.Oil, and put 
them in a Stew-pan with fome good Broth ; let them fimmer 
'till they are well foaked and tender ; put them in your Soop- 
Dilh, covered with your Goofe-CSibblets ; then caft your 
Cullis upon them, and ierve them hot. Obferve the fame 
.Method with the Gibblets of other Fowl. 

A Calf's Head Soop 

TA K E a Calf's Head, ftew it tender, then ftrain olt 
the Liquor, and put into it a Bunch of fweet Herbs, 
Onion, Mace, fome Pearl Barley, Salt and Pepper, boil all 
a liriall TKiie. Serve up with the Head in the Middle 
boned. 

Garnifli with Bread toaded brown, and grated round the 
Rims. 

. A Pottage of a To-ivl. 

DRAW and trufs your Fowl neatly, blanch it in boiling 
Water, and lard the Breaft with fat Bacon ; boil it in 
fome good Broth, with an Onion iluck with Cloves ; let it be 
boiled enough, and fe;: it on hot Afhes ; take fome frsnch 
Rolls, cut the Cruft all off, and put them a ftmmering in 
Broth as ufual ; then difh it up, putting your Fowl with a 
Cullis over it; garnifh the Pvim of your Difh with Cocks- 
combs, or Sweetbreads, cut in long thin Slices, and ferve it 
hot. Another Time you may put on a good clear Veal 
Gravy, or a Cullis of Veal and Ham. 

A Pottage cf Parmefan Cheefe. 

TAKE fmall rafped Loves of the Bignefs of a mid- 
dling Onion, dip them in a little melted Butter, and 
drudge them with Parmefan Cheefe ; put them in the Ovea 
to take a fine Colour ; boil forne Crulls of French P.oUs, as 
ufual, in a Stew-pan, with good Broth ; when tender, put 
them into your Soop Dilli, and over your Cruft • put fome 
minced Partridge, and over that rafped Parmefan Cheefe, 
.and put this likevvife into the Oven to take a fine Gold Co- 
lour: 



4^ The Lady's Companion, 

lour ; take all out, and garnifh the Difh with the little 
Loaves j you mufl have a large one prepared after the fame 
Manner, and forced with minced Partridge, to put in the 
Middle of the Difh. Serve it hot. 

J Pottage 0/ a Lamb's Head. 

SCALD your Lamb's Head and Feet, boil them, with 
the Livers and fome middling Bacon, in a Pot of good 
Broth i then foak your Crufts as ufual, and place the Head 
upon them in the Soop-Difh ; garnifh it handlomely with the 
Livers and Feet; fry the Brains with the Yolk of an Egg 
and fome Crumbs of Bread, and let them take a fine Co- 
lour ; then put them in their Place, and, upon the Whole, 
throw a white Cullis well tailed, made of Veal, Slices of 
Ham, Onions, Mufhrooms, Parfley, Cloves, Crumbs of 
Bread, ^c. pounded in a Mortar, with a Moiflening of 
Broth ; let it be well tailed, and ferve it hot. 

In the Room of a white Cullis you may ufe a good Cullis 
of Peas, and garnilh as above, or make ufe of greenPeas, and 
a Cullis of the fame, according to the Seafon. 

j4 Hare Soop. 

LE T your Hare be cut in fmall Pieces, wafh it, and put 
it into a Stew-pan, with a Knuckle of Veal j put in a 
Gallon of Water, a little Salt, and a Handful of fweet 
Herbs j let it Hew till the Gravy be good ; fry a little of 
the Hare to brown the Soop; put may put in fome Crufts 
of white Bread among the Meat to thicken the Soop ; put 
it into a Difh with a little llew'd Spinach, crifp'd Bread, and 
a few Forc'd-Meat Balls. Garnifh with boil'd Spinach and 
Turnips, cut in thin fquare Slices. 

To make a good Pottage. 

TA K E a Quarter of a Pound of Butter, and put it into 
the Stew-pan, and let it Hand over the Stove till it is 
brown, then fhred an Onion fmall and put into it; then 
fhake in fome Flour whilll 'tis pretty thick, then put in two 
Slices of Lemon, a little Mace, beaten Pepper, and a little 
Bunch of Thyme ; then take Ox-palates, and Sweetbreads, 
cut them in thin Slices, and put in the Pottage with fome 
Forc'd-Meat Balls ; then let them Hand over the Stove, and 
as the Fat rifeth Ikim it off, then take three Heads of white 
Endive, and boil it a little, then Ihred it, and put it in the 
Broth, with fry'd Saufages, cut in Pieces, and let it boil a 

little 



*The L A D Y*s C M p A N I o K. 47 

little while ; then take a French Roll, and cut it in thin Slicw, 
and toafl it very brown, and put it in ; or you nr^ay put 
a roafted Fowl in the Middle of it, and fo ferve it up, gar- 
nifhing the Difli with green Endive fcalded, and fliced Le- 
mon. 

To make Barley Broth. 

BO I L a Pound oi French Barley In three Quarts of Wa- 
ter, with fome whole Spice, when it has boiPd a pretty 
while, put in Raifins of the Sun and Currans, what Quantity 
you pleafe, when it is boiPd put in fome Butter, Rofe-water, 
and Sugar, and fo eat it. 

Another Way. 

TA K E a Pound of Barley, and boil it in four Quarts of 
Water, with a Knuckle of Veal and a Scrag of Mut- 
ton, put in fome Salt, whole Spice, let them boil fomeTime, 
then put to it fome Raifms and Currans, as you think fit ; 
when it is near enough, put in fome Cream, and boil it 
awhile, then put in plumped Prunes, Rofe-water, and Su- 

far. Garnilh with fome of the Raifms and Prunes, and fine 
ugar. 

China Broth. 

CH I P a Quarter of a Pound of China Root thin, put 
it into three Quarts of Water, fet it all Night covered 
over with warm Embers ; the next Morning fluff the Belly 
of a Chicken full with Parfley, Mint, fome Raifms of" the 
Sun flon'd, Onions fliced thin, and French Barley : Boil it in 
a Pipkin clofe covered for fix or feven Hours ov er a gentle 
Fire ; flrain it for Ufe. 

To make Gravy Broth. 

TA K E a flefhy Piece of Beef, not fat, fpit it, and roafl 
it, and when it begins to roafl, flafh it with a Knife 
to make the Gravy run out, and keep it continually bafl- 
ing with what comes from it, mix'd with Claret ; cut it 
often, and bafle it till all the Gravy be come out, put this 
Gravy in a Sauce-pan over a few Coals, put in fome Salt, 
whole Spice, and Lemon-peel, and let it fimmer : Put fome 
Sippets in aDifh with Oranges and Lemons, and ferve it up. 
If you pleafe, you may put in poach'd Eggs inflead of Sip- 
pets. 



Furmityl 



4B "The Lad y 's Companion. 

Furmity. 

TAKE two Quarts of hulFd, boiled Wheat, a Gallon 
of Milk, two Quarts of Cream, and boil them till 
they are pretty thick, then put in Sugar, the Yolks of eight 
or ten Eggs well beaten, three Pounds of Currants, plump'd 
by being gently boil'd in Water : Put thcie into the Furmity, 
give them a few Walms, and it will be dor^e. 

Another Way to make an ordhary Furmity. 

TA KE a Quart of ready boiled Wlieat, two Quarts of 
Milk, a Quarter of a Pound of Currants, clean pick'i 
and wafli'd, ilir thefe together, and boil them beat up the 
Y. Iks of three or four Eggs, a little Nutmeg, with two or 
three Spoonfuls of l\iilk to the Wheat; Irir altogether for a 
few ivlinutes, then fweeten to your Palate, and ferve away. 

Plum!) Gruel. 

TAKE two Quarts of Water, two large Spoonfuls of 
Oatmeal, ilir it together, with a Blade or two of 
Mace, a little Piece of Lemon-Peel, boil it for nve or fix 
Minutes, take Care it does not boil over ; then llrain it oiF, 
and put it into the Sauce pan again, with half a Pound of 
Currants, clean vvadied and picked : Let them boil about 
ten Minutes, add a Glafs of White Wine, a little grated 
Nutmeg, and fweeten to your Palate. 

Alkmaa^fe G'utte, a Dutch Dijh. 

TAKE fome Barley or Oatmeal hulPd, boil it about 
two or three Flours in Water with a Utile Salt, add to 
it fome Raifms or Currants, and ferve it up wiih fre(l\ melted 
Butter. 

J general CuUis for Fifh. 

SCALE and walh fome Carps, gut and flit them in two, 
and cut them in Bits; put fome Butter in a Stew-pan, 
and place in it, firrr, feveral Slices of Onions, and then 
your Bits of Carp , put fome few Slices of Roots over them, 
cover you' Pan, and put it over a flow Fire ; v;hen the 
Onions itick to the Bottom, put in fome Peas Scop. Sca- 
fon with fweet Herbs, Parlley, Chibbols, and two or three 
Cloves of Garlick. Put a Lump of Butter into another 
"Stew -pan, as large as that you are now ufmg, and {qi it over 
|he F'ire, with a fufficient Quantity of fine Flour ; ftir it with 

a wooden 



The Lady^s Companion.' 4:9 

a wooden Ladle till it is a little brownifh ; then ftrain off 
fome of the Liquor of your Carps into it, in order to mix 
the Flour thoroughly, and pour the Whole in your Cullis % 
put in a peel'd Lemon cut in Slices, with fome Garlick, 
fweet Bafil, Parfley, Chibbols, Mufhrooms, Truffles, if you 
have any, and a Bottle of Champaign, or White Wine, more 
or lefs, according to the Quantity of your Cullis. Let it 
be reliihing, and pleafmg to the Eye ; if it is not well co- 
loured, put in it as much Gravy of Onions as you think fit ; 
let it flew llowly, and make ufe of this Cullis with ail Soiits 
of Fiih Courfes. 

NotCy Inftead of Carp you may ufe any other Fifli. 

Cullis of Crawfifh. 

WASH and boil fome fmall Crawfifh in d little Wa- 
ter, with Onions cut in Slices, a Sprig of fweet Bafil, 
a little Thyme and Parfley, feafoned with Salt and Pepper ; 
when your Crawfifh is enough, take them out, pick them, 
keep their Tails for any other Ufe you think lit, and pouncl 
the Remainder with the Shells : Put a Bit of Butter into a 
Stew-pan, v/ith three or four Slices of Onion, a Carrot cut 
•into Slices, and a Parfnip, tofs them up in your Pan twice 
or thrice, and moiflen them with Fifh-Broth, or foakins; 
■Broth. 

Then put a Crtmb of Bread in it, feafon it with Parfle)-, 
•Chibbol, a Sprig of fweet Bafil, half a Lemon peeled and 
cut into Slices. You may alfo put into it fome of your gene- 
ral Cullis with Fifh. Let this Cullis be relilffNpg, take out 
•the Roots with the Skimmer, mix the Cullis with yOurpound- 
•ed Crawfifh, and fl:rain it direcflly through a Strainer. 

This Cullis is to be ufed with all Scrts^of Difhes where a ' 
Crawfifh Cullis is proper. 

Cullis of Crawflfii for Soops. 

OUND fome Crawfifh Shells well, and put a Bit of 
Butter into a Stew-pan, with fome Slices of Onions, 
Carrots, and Parfnipb ; tofs them up well over the Fire, and 
moiften them well with fome good Fifh-Broth ; ieafon theia 
with Parfley, Chibbol, fweet Bafil, half a Lemon peePd and 
cut into Slices, and fome Crumb of white Bread, and let 
your Cullis be rclifhing ; take out aii the Roots, mix it witH 
the pounded Shells of Crawfiili, flrain it immediately througli- . 
a Strainer, and keep it warm in a fmall Kettle. You may 
Vol. L D make. 



p 



50 The Lady's Companion. 

make Ufe of it with all Sorts of Soop, in which CuUis of 
Crawfilh is ufed, but thicken a little more for Courfes. 

The moft ufual Cullis. 

THIS Cullis is made feveral Ways, but this firll is 
reckoned the beft, and moil in Vogue with thofe bell 
fcijied in Cookery: Take Meat according to the Quantity 
of Cullis you would make ; As for Example, if you enter- 
tain ten or twelve Perfons, you can take no lefs than a whole 
Leg of Veal^to make your Cullis with, and the Nut of a 
Ham to make it good : Cut your Leg of Veal in Pieces the 
Bignefs of your till, place thefe in a Stew-pan, then put in 
your Slices of Ham, with a Couple of Carrots and Onions 
cut in two, and put over your Cullis covered ; let it itew 
ibftly at iiril, and, as it begins to be brown, take ofr the 
Cover, and turn it, to colour it on all Sides the I'air.e, but 
take Care not to burn the Meat ; when it has a pretty brown 
Colour, moiilen your Cullis with the Broth, made of Beef, or 
any other Meat ; fealbn it with a little fweet Bafil, fome 
Cloves and Garlick. Pare a Lemon cut in Slices, and put it 
into your Cullis with fome Mulhrooms. Put into a Stew- 
pan a good Lump of Butter, and fet it over a flow Fire j put 
in in two or three Handfuls of Flour, ftir it wich a wooden 
Ladle, apd let it take a Colour: If your Cullis is pretty 
brown, you fhould take fome Flour, and when it is brown'd, 
moiften it with your Cullis, then pour it foftly into the reft, 
keeping it flirring with your wooden Ladle, let it ilew gently, 
and Ikim off the Fat ; put in a Couple of Glafles of Cham- 
faign or other White Wine, but take Care to keep it very 
thin, fo that you may take the Fat well off, and |:larify it : 
To clarify it, you m.uft put it upon a Stove that draws well, 
cover it cloie, and let it boil without uncovering till it boils 
over ; then uncover it, and take off all the Fat that is round 
the Stew-pan, then wipe it off the Cover aifo, and cover it 
again, and by that Means you will have an exceeding fine 
Cullis. If your Cullis ihould happen to be too pale, you 
may put a Bit of Sugar in a Silver Difh, or Stew-pan, with a 
Drop of Water, fet it over a Stove, and let it turn to a Ca- 
ramel, moiflening it with a little Broth, and then put it into 
your Cullis, and with a Spoon take off the Fat, till you fee 
your Cullis 's of a good Coloiir; but if it is of a good Co- 
lour, Caramel needs not be put in it. When your Cullis is 
done take out the Meat, and llrain off your Cullis in a Sieve, 
cr a Silk Strainer, which is much better. This Cullis is 

proper 



The . L A D y's C o M p A N I o N. 51 

proper for all Sorts of Ragoos, and to be over Fowls, or to 
be put into Pies and Terrines. 

Cull is another Way. 

CUT fome Veal in Pieces, and place them in your Stew- 
pan with Slices of Ham, a Couple of Carrots cut in 
two, and a Cq^ple of Onions ; cover your Stew-pan over 
a gentle Fire ; when the Meat begins to flick to the Bottom 
of your Pan, uncover it, and colour it all over, but let it 
not be burnt : If it is done as it lliould be moiflen it with 
Broth, and feafon it with fweet Herbs, Slices of Lemon, 
fome Cloves of Garlick and Cloves ; take as much Flour 
as you think fit, according to the Quantity of Cullis you 
are to make, and mix it thin with cold Broth, or Water j 
then flrain off your Flour into your Cullis, and put by De- 
grees more to it ; let the Cullis Hew foftly, and be well, 
done ; if the Colour is not deep enough, put Gravy in it ; 
then, the Fat being well taken off, and it having a good 
Tafle, take out the Meat, firain oiF yeur Cullis, and )'ou 
may make Uie of it on all Occafion?. 

Cullis another Way. 

PU T into your Stew-pan fome Veal cut in Pieces,- with 
fome Slices of Ham, a Couple of Roots, Carrots, or 
Turnips, cut in two, and a Couple of Onions cut in Slices ; 
cover your Stew-pan, and let it Hew foftly, your Meat being 
of a good Colour, take it out, put a good Lump of Butter 
into your Stew-pan, put it over the Fire, take a v/ooden 
Ladle, and fcrape the Brown well off that Hicks to your 
Stew-pan, put in it as much Flour as you think fit, according 
to the Quantity of Cullis you would make; let it ftew till 
it be of a good Colour, then moiften it with Broth, put the 
Pvieat in again, and feafon it v,?ith a few fweet Herbs, Cloves 
of Garlick, and Lemon Slices, with two or three Glafies of 
Champaign, or other White Wine ; let it ftew well, and take 
the Fat clean off: Being well done, and of a good Reliih, 
flrain it off in a Sieve, or elfe in a Silk Strainer, and you 
may ufe it with all Sorts of Entries. 

Cullis another Way. 

THIS is to be ordered like the other, till it has taken 
its Colour; the Difference in this Cullis is. that be- 
fore you m.oiflen it, you mull put into it a good Lump of 
Butter, flir it with a wooden Ladle, and puc in as much 
P 2 Flour 



52 ^/^^ La DY'S COMPANI ON. 

Floor as you think fit, for the Quantity of Cullis you are to 

<make ; moil!en it with good Broth, and let it Hew well, fea- 

fon the fame Way as thofe before -mentioned, which being 

done, fl|-ain it off, and ufe it like the other, as you think 

proper. 

At another Tyjxe, .when yo,ur Meat begins to flick, and 
your Caramel is pretty deep coloured, take out your Meat, 
and put in a good Lump of Butter, then put your Stew-pan 
over a flow Fire, to take off the Brown in the Fan ; put in 
it fome Flour, and when you fee a Froth, moillen it with 
Broth, and put your Meat in again, moiflening at laft the 
fame with Veal Gravy. 

Cullis rf Ham. 

THIS is likewife made divers Ways, we •fhali begin 
with that which is eileemed the bell by many good 
Cook?. 

Put into a Stew-pan three Pounds of Veal cut in Dice ; 
take a good Ham, with the Svv^erd oif, and the Fat, cut it 
ino Slices well Ihaped, and put them into the Stew-pan 
w th your Veal, a Couple of Carrots cut in two, and a 
>Couple of Orions ; cover your Stew-pan, and do it very 
gently over a flow Fire at firil, and when you fee )OurJMeat 
i>egin to flick to the Pan, uncover it, and turn your Slices 
of Ham, that they may take a Colour ; then take out your 
Slices of Ham and your Veal : Put a Lump of Butter, with 
a little Flour, in your Stew-pan, and liir it well together with 
a wooden Ladle, moiften it with good Broth, not fait ; put 
your Meat and your Ham in again, and feafon it with Le- 
mon Slices, fome Cloves of Garlick, and a few Glaffes of 
Champaign, or other White Wine. Go on to thicken with 
the mofl: ufual Cullis, Ikim oft the Fat ; when done, take 
out all your Meat with the Ham, llrain off your Eflence in 
a Silk Strainer, and ufe the fame with all Sorts of Meat, and 
hot Paftry made with Meat, or Fifh drefled with Gravy. 
Put your Slices of Ham into your EfTence again, to make 
IJfe of on feveral Occahons ; as, being cut into Dice, to put 
over a Piece of Beef, or Artichoke Bottoms, and, when cut 
into Slices, for Chickens, young Fowls, or what elfe you 
jivige proper. 



Another 



The L A D y's C cm p a n I o n. 53.. 

Another CuUis of Ham. 

CU T fonie Slices of Ham very thin, and order tlieni 
very neatly in a Stew-pan, putting fome Onions into 
it : Cover your Stew-pan, and put it over a flow Fire, and 
take Care they are not burnt : When your Slices of Ham 
have a Colour on one Side, turn them, then take them out 
of the Stew-pan, into which you muft put a Bit of Butter, 
and a Dull of Flour, ftirring it a Moment with a wooden 
Ladle, and moiftening it with good Broth and Gravy ; put 
your Slices of Ham in again, fome Cloves of Garlick, a 
Glafs of Champaign, or other White Wine, with a few Mufh- 
rooms. Take a Lemon, pare it, cut it in Slices, and put it 
into your Cullis. Thicken with the ufual CuUis, and flcim 
the Fat well off : Take out your Slices of Ham, and ilrain 
oiF your Cullis in a Silk Strainer, then put your Slices of 
Ham. in again. You may make Ufe of them on feveral Oc- 
caiions, viz. in putting them upon Artichokes, or upoa 
Chickens for Side Dilhes, or putting in a Crufl: of Bread \xi- 
the Bottom of the Diih, and your Slices of Ham over it. 

Cullis the Italian Way, 

PUT half a Ladleful of Cullis in a Stew-pan, and half 
a Ladleful of Gravy, and as much of Broth> three or 
four Onions cut in Slices, four or five Cloves of Garlick, a. 
little beaten Coriander-feed, with a Lemon pared and cut in 
Slices, a little fweet Bafil, Mufhrooms, and good Oil : Put al) 
over the Fire, let it itew a Quarter of an Hour, take the Far. 
well off, let it be of a good Tafte, and you may ufe it with all 
Sorts of Meat and Filh, particularly with larded and glazed- 
Fifli, with Chickens, Fowls, Pigeons, Quails, Ducklings ; 
and, in fliort, with all Sorts of Tame and Wild Fowl. 

^ White Cullis, the ^teens Way, 

TA KE a Piece of Veal and cut it into fmall Bits, with 
fome thin Slices of Ham, and two Onions cut in four 
Pieces ; moiften it with Broth, feafoned with Muflirooms, a 
Bunch of Parfley, green Onions, three Cloves, and fo let it 
ftew ; when ftewed fome Time, take out all the Meat and 
Roots with a Skimmer ; put in a few Crumbs of Bread, and 
let it ftew foftly ; take the White of a Fowl, or of a Couple 
of Chickens, and pound it in a Mortar, mix it in your 
white Cullis, but it muft not boil, and your Cullis muft be 
very white j but, if it is not white enough, pound one or 

D 3 two 



54 ^^^ Lady's Com pa n i o n. 

two Dozen of Jordan Almonds blanch'd, and put them into^ 
it, with a Glafs of Milk boil'd : Let it be of a good Tafte, 
and flrain it off; then put it inafmall Kettle, and keep it 
warm ; and you may ufe it for all Sorts of white Soops, for 
Crufts of Bread, and white Pottages. 

Green Cullis n.vith Green Peas. 

E T fome Green Peas be done without Liquor, then 
take a Handful of Parfley, as much Spinach, with a 
Handful of green Onion -tops, blanch all thefe in boiling 
Water, then put them into frefh Water, and take them out,, 
fqueeze them well, and pound them : Put in a Piece of Veal 
cut in Dice, fome Slices of Ham, and an Onion cut fmall, 
into a Stew-pan, put it over a Stove, and let it flew gently ; 
being a little clammy, moiften it with your foaking Broth, 
and let it flew foftly ; put a Handful of gree'n Parfley, green 
Onions, Cloves, and a Bunch of Savoury into it ; being 
ftewed, and of a good Tafle, take out your Meat and Greens, 
then pound your Feas, and mix them with your Cullis, and 
with the Tops of green Onions, and Ilrain it olF with a La- 
dleful of Cullis. This Cullis may be ufed with all Sorts of 
Terrines, with Green Peas, Ducklings, with Green Peas 
Soop, and with all Sorts of Difhes that are made with green 
Sauce ; when you ftew your Green Peas or Cucumbers, cut 
ir. v.;/ Dice, in their Seafon-, put fome of this Cullis over them. 

Green Cullis y^r Soops. 

BOIL Peas in a fmall Kettle', with good Broth ; take a 
Piece of Veal, a Bit of Ham, with an Onion, cut all 
together into fmall Dice, and put them a fweatmg very 
gently over a Fire ; being a little clammy, moiilen them 
with your foaking Broth, feafon them, and let them flew 
gently ; take Parfley, theTops of green Onions and Spinach, 
of each a Handful ; and after they are picked, waflied, and 
blanched in boiling Water, fqueeze them well, and pound 
them, then ta :e them out of the Mortar, and pound your 
Peas. Your Meat being fl^^wed, take it out of the Cullis with 
a Skimmer, take off the Fat, let it be of a good Taile, and 
mix your Peas and the Tops of green Onions with it, and 
fo ftrain it off : This Cullis may be ufed with all Sorts of 
green Soops and Soop Crufls. 



Cullis 



The L A D y's Com p A N ION, i^^ 

Cullis of Partridges. 

POUND roafted Partridges, take a Piece of Veal cut 
into Slices, with a Bit of Ham ; put it together into o 
Stew -pan with Onions, and a Carrot cut into Bits, and Ic^ 
it fweat upon the Fire, till it fticks ; then moiften it \vi::i 
good Broth and Gravy : Seafon it with a Slice of Lemon, c. 
little fweet Bafil and Mufhrooms ; let your Meat ftew very 
io^ny ; this done, lake it out with the Skimmer, and flcini 
the Fat well ofi : Let it be of a good Tafte, and mix )'ou.r 
Partridges with it, together with a Ladleful of other CiilliS ;. 
ftrain it oiF, put it in a fmall Kettle. 

Cullis of Lentils. 

TAKE Lentils, pick and waih them, then put then? 
into a fmall Kettle with good Broth, an Onion, a Piec^i 
of middling Bacon, cut fafhionably to garniih your Soop 
with, and fet it a boiling fbftly ; take a Piece of Veal and a 
Piece of Ham cut into fmall Bits ; put them into a Stew-pan 
with an Onion, and let it fweat gently over the Fire, till it 
grov/s clammy, then moiften it with yoiw foaking Broth and 
Gravy ; feafon it with Parfley, fweet Herbs, green Onions, 
and two or three Cloves of Garlick, and let it flew foftly ; 
your Meat being ftewed, and your Cullis of a good Tafte, 
pound your Lentils, and take out your Meat, then ftir up 
your Lentils with your Cullis, and ftrain it off: You mullh 
keep fome whole Lentils by you, to put in your Cullis, fo 
that it may look like a Cullis of Lentils : This Cullis majr 
be ufed with all Sorts of foaked Crufts with Lentils, in 
making them a little thicker. 

J Capon Cullis. 

TA K E a roafted Capon, and pound it very well in a 
Mortar, put it in a Stew-pan, tofs up fome Crufts of 
Bread in melted Bacon ; and when they are become very 
brov/n, put to them fomc Mufhrooms, Cives, Parfiey, and 
Baf 1, all fhred very fmall ; mix all thefe with your pounded 
Capon, and make an End of dreffmg them over the Stove ; 
put in ftrong Broth, and ftrain it. 

It is only the Meats you put into a Cullis that gives it the 
Name and Talte ; if it be for Pheafants or Partridges, make 
ufe of Pheafants or Partridges inftead of Capon ; do the like 
for Woodcocks,' Pigeons, Ducks, Teal, Quails, Rabbics, .fe"V. 

B 4 and: 



^6 The Lady's Com.panion. 

and whatfoevcr Meat you ufe muft be more than half roafted 
before you pound it to put in aCullis. 

Cullifes are for thickening all Sorts of Ragoos and Scops, 
and to give them an agreeable Talle. 

j^ White Cullis meagre. 

BR O I L a Pike, or a Brace of Perch, {kin them, take 
out the Bones, and pound their Fleih in a Mortar, with 
a Handful of blanch'd Almonds, and the Yolks of four or 
five Eggs boird hard ; flice a Couple of Parfnips, a Couple 
ofCan-ots, and fix Onions, and flew them with Butter in a 
Stew-pan, turning them often, and when they begin to be 
brown, wet them with a thin Peas Broth, or Puree ; fcale, 
fkin, and bone a Carp, cut the Head and Bones in Pieces, and 
put them in the Stew-pan, let them boil a Quarter of an 
Hour, then ilrain them into another Stew-pan, and put in 
fome Mufhrooms, Truiiks, a Couple of Cloves, a little Parf- 
}ey, Eafil, and a whole Leek ; add alfo the Quantity of two 
Eggs of crumbled Bread : Let them fjmmer fc* a Quarter of 
an Hoar over a gentle Fire ; then put in your pounded Al- 
monds, Eggs, and Fifh ; let it fimmer but not boil, for fear it 
change Colour, then ftrain it, and ufe it for Soops and Ra- 
goos. 

A Cullis of Roots. 

TAKE Parfnips, Carrots, Parfley- Roots, and Onions, 
and cut them in Slices ; tofs them up in a Stew-pan, 
then take about a Dozen and a half of blanch'd Almonds, 
ajid the Crumb of two French Rolls foaked in good Fifh-Broth, 
pound them together in a Mortar with your Roots ; then boil 
all together, feafon them well as in other Cullifes ; then 
ftrain it, and ufe it for Soops of Cardoons, Chervil, Onions, 
Leeks, ^c. 



CHAP. 



The Lady's Companion, 57 

CHAP. IL 

Of F I S H. 

To drefs Salmon au Court-Bouillon. 

AFTER having drawn and cleanfed your Salmon, 
fcore the Sides pretty deep, that it may take ther 
Relifli of Court-Bouillon the better : Lay it on a Napkin, and 
fealbn it with Salt, Pepper, Cloves, Nutmeg, Onions, Gives, 
Pariley, fliced Lemon, Bay-leaf, and Bafil : Work up the 
Quantity of about a Pound of Butter with a little Flour, and 
put it into the Belly of the Salmon ; then wrap the Salmon 
in the Napkin, bind it over with Packthread, and lay it in a 
Fiih-kettle of a Size proportioned to the Largenefs of your 
Fiih ; put to it a Quantity fufficient to boil it in, of Wine,.. 
Water, and Vinegar, and fet it over a quick Fire : When it 
is done enough, take it off, and keep it fimmering ovsi- 
a Stove till you are ready to ferve : Then take up the 
Salmon, unfold the Napkin it is in, and lay another in the 
Difh in which you intend to ferve it; place the^Salmcn 
upon it : Garnilh with green Pariley, and ferve it for Firft 
Courfe. 

To drefs a nvhole Salmon, or Pieces ofity a la Braife. 

LARD with large Lardoons, well feafoned, and bind it 
about with Packthread : Take two ot three Pounds of 
a Fillet of Veal, cut in Slices, and lay it, with fome Bards 
of Bacon, on the Bottom of a Stew-pan, cover the Pan, and. 
fet it over a flack Fire ; when the Meat begins to ftick^, 
powder it with a Handful of Flour, and give it feven ot^ 
eight Turns over the Stove,.keeping it always moving ; then;' 
moirten it with good Broth, and a few Spoonfuls of Gravy J 
Lay the Salmon in an oval Stew-pan, pour the Liquor o£ 
your Braife upon it, and lay it over your Slices of Veal ; put: 
in a Bottle of Champaign, or White Wine ; fee that there: 
be Liquor enough; ftrevv in a Seafoning of Pepper, Sak^ 
Spices, and favoury Herbs, Gives, Pariley, and iome Slices 
of Onion and Lemon, add a Lump of Butter, and lay fome 
Slices of fat Bacon over all ; fo fet it to Hew over a gentle 
Fire : When it is enough done, take it off the Fire, an-iiet 
it ftand a Couple of Hours in the Liquor, to give iv a Keli{h, 

r> 5 ^ut 



SS 7he L A D Y^S C O M P A N I O II, 

but let the Parx be always covered to keep it warm j when- 
you are ready to ferve, take it up, drain it, untie the Pack- 
thread, ]ayit in the Diih you intend to ferv^eit in, pour upon- 
it a Ragoo of Crawiifh made with Gravy, or elfe a Ra- 
goo of Veal Sweetbreads, Cocks -Combs, cjV. and ferve it 
hot. 

The fame drejfa Maigr«^r Fiih Days. 

YOU muft lard it with Anchovies and the Flefli of Eels, 
binsi :t about with Packthread, and put it in an oval 
Stew-pan, or Fifh-kettle, of the Size of your Fiih : Put ar 
Lump of Butter, as big as your Fill:, into a Sauce-pan ; fet it 
over a Stove, and when it is melted, throw in a Handful of 
Flour, and brown it, keeping it always moving ; then put 
to it feme Fllli-Broth, and pour the Whole into the Stew- 
pan to your Salmon, to which put iikevv'ife a Bottle oi Cham- 
faigr-t Wine, or White Wine, fo>^that there may be Liquor 
enough to Hew it in. Seafon it with Salt, Pepper, favoury 
Herbs, and Spices, Onions, Cives, Farfley, and Slices of 
Lemon ; fo get it ready over a Hack Fire. When it is 
enough done, let it fiand a Couple of Hours in its Liquor, 
that it may have the P.elilh of it ; then take it up, unbind and 
drain it,, lay it in the Difn you intend to ferve it in, and pour 
upon it either a Ragco of Melts, Mulhrooms, and TrulRes, 
or one of Crawfilh Tails, and its Garnilhings i fo ferve it, 

Salmon in Cafes. 

TA IC E a Piece of Salmon, take off the Skin, cut it in 
thin Slices ; mince fome Parlley; green Onions, and 
Mulhrooms, put your Parfley and green Onions into a 
Stew-pan, with fome Butter, feafoned with Pepper and 
Salt ; then put in your Salmon v/ithout putting it over the 
Fire again, and tofs it up to give it a Tafte : place your. 
Slices of Salmon in a Paper Cafe, put your Seafoning 
upon it, and frrew Crumbs of Bread over all ; let it bake 
to a fine Colour. Your Salmon being done, ferve it up = 
with Lemon-juice for a fmall Entry, or Hors cCOewvrs. 

To drefs a Jch of Salmon the Dutch Wr^y. 

GR T a Jole of Salmon, fcale and wafh it very clean, 
and put fome Water upon the Fire ; take your Salmon, 
and put it upon a Fifn-plate, which you muit put into your 
Kettle, Put, a Stevv-;pan, with a little Vinegar, over the. 



^he Lady's Companion. 59 

Fire ; feafon year Salmon with Salt, Ibme Onions lliced. 
Thyme, Iweet JBafil, and Parley in Bunches ; then put your 
Vinegar hot over it ; moiften it with boiling Water, and let 
the Liquor be of a good Tafte ; when done, make a Sauce- 
with a Piece of good^B utter, a little Flour and Water, a Daili 
of Vinegar, a few Anchovies, a little Nutmeg, and rome 
Shrimps picked, and thicken it ; when ready to fer^^e, difh 
up your Salmon. Let your Sauce be well tafted, put it upon' 
your Salmon, and ferve it up hot for your Entry. 

'To bake Salmon. 

TA K E a.- little Piece and cut it into Slices about an Lnch 
thick, butter the Dilli that you would ferve it to Table- 
on, lay the Slices in the Dilh, take off the Skin, make a 
Force -Meat thus : Take the Fleih of .an Eel, the Fleili of 
a Salmon, an equal Quantity, beat it. in a Mortar, feafon ii 
with beaten Pepper, Salt, Nutm.eg, ' two or three Cloves, 
fome Parfley, a i'kw Muihrooms, and a Piece of Butter, ten 
or a Dozen Coriander-Seeds beat £ne : Beat all together, boil 
the Crumb of aFFalfpenny Roll in Milk, beat up four Eggs, 
ftir it till it is thick ; let it cool, and mix it well together with-- 
the reil, and four more raw Eggs ; on every Slice lay this 
Force Meat all over, pour a very little melted Butter over 
them, and a few Crumbs of Bread ; lay a CrulT: round the 
Edge of the Difh, and Hick Oyikrs round upon it. Bake 
it in an Oven, and when it is of a very fine Brown, ferve it 
up ; pour a little plain Butter, with a little Red Wine", into 
the Dilli, and the Juice of a Lemon : Or yon may bake it 
in any Difn, and when it is enough, lay the Slices into 
another DiiTi. Pour the Bstter and Wine into the Difh it 
was baked in, give it a Boil, and pour it into the Diifi. 
Garnlih with Lemon, and fqueeze the Juice of a Lemon 
into -it. 

^0 hrcil Salmon. 

'\T O U may take either a whole Salmon, a Jole, Rand^ 
B. or Chine j flice it, or cut it round about the Thick- 
nefs of an Inch ; lleep it in Claret and Wine-Vinegar, Salt, 
and Sallad Oil, with grofs Pepper, iliced Ginger, a Clove 
of Garlick, large Mace, and whole Cloves ; then broil it on 
a llack Fire, bafting it with the Liquor it was lleeped in, 
with fome Sprigs of Rofemary, ,Thyme, Parfley, ard fweet 
Marjoram ; in the mean Time boil up the Gravy with Jome 
Q^^^i Liquor, and when the Salmon is broiled^ difh it, 

pour 



6o 7he Lad y's C o m p a n i o n. 

pour the Sauce over it, lay the Herbs about it, and ferv^e- 
It up. 

Or thus. 

BROIL fome Pieces of Salmon, feafoned with Pepper, 
Salt, and rubbed with Butter. Make a Sauce in this 
Manner ; take ibme Butter, put it into a Stew-pan, with a 
Bull of Flour, a green Onion, and an Anchovy ; feafon the 
fame with Salt, Pepper, and Nutmeg, moiften it with Water,, 
and a little Vinegar, and tofs it over the Stove ; put half a 
Ladleful of Crawfilh Cullis into it, put it again over the. 
Stove to heat : Let your Sauce be relifhing ; difh it up, put 
your Pieces of Salmon over it, and ferve it up hot for an 
Entry. 

Or this may be varied by adding a Ladleful of Grawfifli^ 
Cullis. 

To broil Salmon ivith Brown Sauce. 

CU T your Salmon- in Slices, melt fome Butter in a 
Sauce-pan, and put in fome Salt ; when it is melted, 
rub the Slices of Salmon with the melted Butter, and lay 
them on a Gridiron over a gentle Fire. For the Sauce, put 
a Lump of Butter as big as an Egg into a Sauce-pan, and 
fet it over the Fire ; and when the Butter is melted, put in 
half a Spoonful of Flour, and keep it moving over the Fire 
till it is brown ; then put in a Glafs of White Wine and 
Fifh-Broth ; feafon the Whole with Salt and Pepper, a Bunch 
of fweet Herbs, an Onion ftuck with Cloves, and a little 
Parfley fhred. When the Salmon is broiled enough, put 
them into this Sauce, and let them fimmer in it, till as much 
of it is wafted away as you think proper? then lay the Slices 
of Salmon in a Difn ; then bind the Sauce with a Thickeniag 
of the Yolk of an Egg or two, beaten up with a little Ver- 
juice, pour it upon the, Salmon. 

To drefs a Tail-piece of Salmon in Cafferole. 

GE T a Tail-piece of Salmon, fcale it, loofen the Skin, 
fo as it may fall off from the Flefh, take avvay the Fil- 
lets, and fill up the void Space with good Filh Force, or with 
fine Herbs, Butter, and Clippings of Bread j afterwards put 
the Skin upon the Tail again, then bread it handfomely, and 
bake it in an Oven wdth White Wine, Salt, Thyme, Chib- 
bol, a Bay-leaf, and Lemon-ped, When it is baked, pour. 

a Ra§o». 



ne Lady's Companion^ ^r 

a Ragoo upon it, garniih it with what you pleafe, and ferve 
it up. 

7o farce Slices of Salmon. 

CU T Slices of Salmon an Inch thick, take oiF the Skins, 
then make a Farce as follows : Mince fome Fleih of a 
Salmon with the Flelh of an Eel, Mufhrooms, Gives, and 
Parfley ; feafon it with Salt, Pepper, Nutmeg, and a little 
fweet Bafil : When you have (hred all thefe together, heat 
three or four Cloves, and about a Dozen Coriander Seeds in 
a Mortar ; put the minced Fifh to them, with a g6od Piece of 
Butter, and pound them all together : Then put a Piece of 
Crumb of Bread, about as big as your Fill, into a Sauce-pan, 
with Cream, or Milk, and beat up in it the Yolks of four 
Eggs, and when it is grown thick, take it off the Fire, and 
fet it by to cool ; then put into a Mortar the Yolks of four. 
or five more raw Eggs , and the Bread and Cream when it 
is cold, and pound it all well together; then cover the 
Slices of the Salmon with this Farce, and rub them over- 
with beaten Eggs and melted Butter. Then lay a little 
Butter in a Pafty-pan or Difh, feafon it with Salt, Pepper, 
Spices, fweet Herbs, minced Parfley, and whole Cives ; 
having laid this Seafoning in your Pafty-pan, lay in your 
Slices of farced Salmon, and put them into an Oven, and 
when they are baked of a curious brown Colour, put into 
a Difh a Ragoo of Crawiiih, lay your Slices of farc'd Sal- 
mon on the Ragoo, and ferve it hot. 

To roaji a Salmon <wholi, 

YOUR Salmon being drawn at the Gills, ftuiF the Belty 
of it with fome whole fweet Herbs, fuch as Thyme, 
Rofemary, Winter Savoury, fweet Marjoram, a fmall Onion, 
and Garlick, fcale the Salmon, wipe off tRe Slime, and lard 
him with pickled Herrings, or a fait Eel ; then feafon fom.e 
large Oyfters with Nutmeg, and fill up his Belly with them j 
bafte him with Butter, lay him upon Sticks in a Tin Drip- 
ping-pan, fet it into the Oven ; draw it out, turn the otHe^ 
Side upwards, then put fome Claret in the Dripping-pan under 
it, with Wine, Anchovies, Pepper, and Nutmeg ; let the 
Gravy drip into it, bafte it out of the Pan, v/ith Rofemary 
and Bays ; when the Fiih is done enough, take all the Fat- 
off the Gravy^ boil it up, and beat it with thick Butter ; 
then, diih your Salmgn, pour the Sauce over it ; rio up his^ 

' Be%. 



62 The Lady's C o m p a n i o k. 

Belly, take out fome of the O) fters, put them into the Sauce, 
take away the Herbs, and ferve it up hot. 

^0 Jieiv Salmon. 

AFTER your Salmon is drawn, fcore it on the Back, 
then put it either whole, or in Pieces, iato a Stew pan, 
and pour upon it as much Beer Vinegar, Water, and White 
Wine, as will cover it; put in a Seaioning of Salt, whole 
Pepper, Diced Ginger, large Mace, whole Cloves, a Faggot 
of Iweet Marjoram, Rofeinary, Winter Savoury, Thyme, 
Parfley, and an Orange cut in Halves i add a good Lump 
of Butter : Let all flev/ together very ieifurely, and when- 
the Salmon is enough, difh it upon Sippets, lay on it your 
Spices, and Slices of Lemon, run it over with Butter, beaten 
up with fome of the ilew'd Liquor, C5V. Garnim with 
grated Bread, and ferve it up hot for a firll Courfe Dilh. 

fo haJJ-j Salmon. 

TAKE any Part of the Salmon, either Jole, Rand, or 
Tail, v/ith fome frelh Eel ; fet it in warm Water, 
take off the Skin, mince it fine j feafon it with Salt, Pepper, 
beaten Cloves, Mace, and fweet Herbs ; put it in a Pipkin, 
with fome Claret, blanched Chefnuts, Goofeberries, Barber- 
ries, or Gr?-T)es ; v/hen it has iiewei enough, difh it with 
Sippets, run it over with beaten Butter ; garnifh the Difh 
with grated Bread fifted, Oyflers fry'd in Butter, Cockles 
or Prawns. 

Another P/ay to hajh Salmon. 

HASH the Flelh of your Salmon in a Sauce-pan, dry it. 
over the Fire till it grows Vvhite ; then lay it on the- 
DrefTer, put to it fome Shrim.ps, Mufhrooms, Paifiey, and: 
TruiHes, flired and mix them all together; fet fome frefft 
Butter in a Sauce-pan ever a Stove, put in a little 1 iour, and. 
snake it brown, then put in your Salmon, t^c. give it a 
Turn or two over the Fire ;• feafon with Salt and Pepper, and-- 
a- li:te Juice of Lemon; moifleii it with Fil^i Broih, and 
ferve it as hot as you can. 

% make a Pufton cf Salmotv. 

WHEN* you have fcalei, fkinned, and boned your 
Salmon, lay the Flefh on a DrefTer, with the Fhfh- 
©f Eels, aiinced Mufhfconis, Cive5 and Pariley, feafon'd 

With 



^he Lad y's Companion. 63 

with Salt, Pepper, Nutmeg, and a little fweet Bafil : Let 
all thefe be fhred very well together ; beat three or four 
Cloves, with a Dozen Coriander Seeds, in a Mortar ; then- 
put in the minced Meat, and a fufhcient Quantity of Butter, 
and pound them all together : Next put a Piece of the 
X^rumb of Bread, as big as your Fiil, into Cream, orMilk,- 
and fet it a fimmering over a Stove ; then beat up the Yolks 
of four Eggs in it, and, when it is thick enough, take it off, 
and fet it a cooling ; then put into a Mortar the Yolks of 
four or five raw Eggs, and the Bread and Cream; vvhen it is 
cold, pound it all well together, then make a Ragco of Sal- 
mon as follows : Take fmall Mufhrooms, peel then;, take a: 
Siice or two of Salmon rubbed with melted Butter, and 
broiled ; then put Butter injto a Sauce-pan, and fet it over a 
Stove till it is melted, then brown it with a little Flour;, 
put your Mullirooms into it, and let them have a few Turns 
over the Stove ; put in feme Fifli-Broth, Salt, Pepper, and a. 
Faggot of fweet Herbs j take the Skin oJthe Slices of oal- 
mon that were broiled, cut it into little long Slices, and put 
them into the Sauce-pan to the Mufhroo ^g, iffc. add nifo- 
feme Crawhlh Tails, and blanched Afparagus Tops, and let 
them fimmer together for a while; when your Ragoo is 
enough, take ofF all the Fat, and fet it a cooling, then run a 
Sauce-pan with frelh Butter, butter a Sheet of Pape*, and 
lay over the Bottom and Sides of it ; fpread fome of the 
Farce over it an Incli thick, or more ; beat up an Egg, and 
rub it over with it to make the F' arce lye the fmoother ; 
place the Ragoo of Salmon in the Bottom, and cover the 
Pupton with the fame Farce ; rub it over with beaten Egg^.. 
and bake i: in an Oven, or Baking-Cover, with Fire over 
and under it ; when it is baked, turn it upfide down into 
the Difh in which you intend to ferve it ; take off the Paper, 
make a Hole in the Top of the Size of a Crown Piece, pour 
in fome CuUis of Crawfifli, and ferve it up hot for the £rll 
Courfe. 

7q fry Salmon. 

TAKE either a Chine, Rand or Jole of Salmon, pu§ 
thin Slices of Butter into the Pan, and fry it till it 
grows crifp : In the mean Time prepare your Sauce as fol- 
lows : Put in a Sauce -pan fome Claret, fv/eet Butter, the Li- 
quor of pickled Oyfters, the Juice of Oranges, and grated 
Nutmeg ; fet them over" a flack Fire, beat them, continually ; 
diih.your FJlh, aiid pour the Sauce over them, garnilh witk. 

Siige 



64 ^he L A D y's Companion,. 

Sage-Leaves and Parfley fry'd in Butter, but not too crifp,, 
and ferve it up hot. 

Or you may add to the Sauce fome Vinegar, and to the 
Garnilh Slices of Orange and Pippins, flic'd and fry'd in . 
clarify 'd Butter, or Yolks of Eggs, with Quarters of Oranges 
round the Difli, and fome fry'd Greens. 

Or you may make a Sauce with Butter beaten up with three' 
or four Spoonfuls of hot Water, in which an Anchovy has 
been diiTolv'd. 

To marinate Salmon to hf eaten eithtr hit or aid. 

TAKE a Salmon, cut it into Joles and Rands, and 
fry them in Sailad Oil, or clarified Butter, then fet 
them by, then put into a Pipkin as much Claret and Wine 
Vinegar as will be fufficient to cover them ; put in a Faggot 
of fweet Herbs, as Rofemary, Thyme, Sweet Marjoram, 
Winter-Savoury, Parfley, Sage, Sorrel and Bay Leaves, Salt, 
grofs Pepper, Nutmeg^, and Ginger fiiced, large Mace and 
Cloves, bail allthefe well together; lay your Salmon into a 
Pan, and all being cold, pour this Liquor over it, lay on 
iliced Lemons and Lemon-peel, and cover it up clofe ; and 
you may either ferve it hot or cold, with the fame Liquor it 
was foufed in, with Spices, Herbs, and Lemons on it. 

Salmon in Surprise n^jith Gra'vy. 

SCALE and gut your Salmon, without tearing the Skin, 
which you muft Icofen on both Sides from the Head to 
within two or three Inches of the Tail, bone it, cut the 
Flelh in Slices, add Slices of Carp, Soal, Pike, boiled Ham, 
Neats Tongues, Cervelas, Truffles, and Muihrooms ; then 
put the Cuttings of all your Fifh chopped fmall together, 
with a Piece of Bacon, into a Stew-pan, together with an 
Udder of Veal, blar.ched and feafoned with Pepper, Salt, and 
fweet Herbs ; add three or four Yolks of Eggs, the Whites^ 
whipp'd up to Snow ; feafon your Slices with Pepper, Salt,. 
fweet Herbs, and fne Spice, put thefe in your Stuffing, 
with half a Bottle of Cho.mfaign, or other White Wine, and 
the Juice of a Couple of Lemons ; when all is well mixed,, 
and' put into your Salmon, turn it again into its natural 
Shape, and few it up well, to keep in the Stuffing; lay a 
Napkin over your Drefier, cover it with Slices of Bacon, the 
Length of your SaLiiOn, with another Laying of Bacon 
over it, and wrap it up in the Napkin. Make ufe of a- 
Court-Bouillon Kiade in the following Manner, ^iz. Get a 



The Lady^s CoMP ANION. 65 

Fifh-kettle big enough to hold your Salmon, and put five, or 
fix good Bottles of Wine into it, with feme Ladlefuls of 
Veal Gravy, put in your Salmon, let it foak well, but take 
Care it be not too much donej keep your Salmon as whole 
as poffible, and feafon the Court-Bouillon with Pepper, Salt,, 
fweet Bafil, Thym.e, Bay-leaves, and Onions :_ After this, 
difh it up, pour a Ragoo of Crawfifh Tails over it, with fome 
Truffles, Cocks -combs. Sweetbreads of Veal, and fome Pul- 
lets Eggs, and ferve it up hot for a firll Courle. You may 
garnifh with Crawfifli and young Pigeons larded or glazed. 
Sweetbreads of Veal glazed, the Pvoes of Carp, fat Livers, 
with a Crawfifh Cullis, or an Effence of Ham over the 
Difh. 

Another Way to drefs Salmon nv'^th Gra^vj. 

TA KE a Jole of Salnv)n, fcale and waih it, and puf i^ 
into a Brafs-kettle, with Slices of Bacon, Veal, and 
Ham ; take a Napkin and wrap up your Jole, and put it in- 
to your Brafs-kettle, moiilen it with two Bottles of White 
Wine and fome Water, feafon it with Salt, Pepper, fweet . 
Herbs and Onions, and let it flew gently; when it is ready, 
take it out, drain it, and difh it up ; put a Ragoo over it, 
with Sweetbreads of Veal, Cocks-combs, Mufhrooms, and 
Truffles, or Gravy of Ham, or a Crawiifh Cullis, and ferve 
It up hot for your Courfe, 

% boil Salmon. 

SCALE the Salmon, and take either the whole'Side, ot 
what Part of it you pleafe, and cut it into Pieces of 3 
rsafonable Bignefs ; wipe off the Blood, but do not wafh it; 
take as much Wine and Water (of each an equal Quantityy 
as will jufl cover it, put in Salt according to the Quantity 
of your Liquor, then put in the Salmon, make it boil up 
quick ; put in alfo a Quart of White Wine Vinegar; if the 
Fire be brifk it will be boil'd in half an Hour, then having 
prepared a Sauce for it of Butter, beaten up with Water, and 
the Yolks of two or three Eggs difTolved in it, and a little 
of the Liquor, with fome grated Nutmeg and Slices of Sal- 
mon ; take up your Salmon, difh it, pour the Sauce over itr 
Garnifh with fifted Bread, Slices of Lemon, Barberries, fry-*d 
Greens, and ferve it up. 



% 



66 TkLADY'sCoMPANlON, 

7h boil a ]o\e o/" Salmon. 

PU T a Pint of Vinegar into Water, a good Quantity of 
Salt, a Faggot of fvveet Herbs, an Onion Ruck with-^ 
Cloves, a little Nutmeg, Pepper 'and whole Mace, and a' 
Piece of Lemon-peel, fet them in a Stew-pan or Kettle, 
and boil them well for a good while; then put in your Jole, 
make it boil a-pace, and it will be done in a Quarter of an 
Hour : In the mean Time, for a Sauce, boil a Couple of 
Anchovies in iirong Broth, with a Bit of Lemon-peel, and 
ilrain it through a Sieve j then put to it a Pound of Butter, 
and half a Pint of Claret, and thicken them over the Firej 
then dilh your Jole, pour the Sauce over it. Garnifh the 
Difn with a Lemon fliced, Horfe-Radifh ana Barberries, and 
ferve it up. 

To fo»fe Salmon or Treats. 

LE T yom- Liquor be Wine, Water, White Wine Vine- 
gar, a little whole Pepper, Mace, an Onion ftuck 
with Cloves, a little Lemon-peel, Savoury and Thyme, let 
thefe boil together a little v/hile, then put in the Salmon or 
Trout; a Jole mull boil half an Hour, the other according 
as in Bignefs ; you mufl take it out of the Liquor to be cold, 
and put your Liquor in a Stone Velfel to cool ; then add 
more Vinegar and Salt, and keep your Fiih therein. 

7o make a Sallad njcith frejh Salmon. 

TA K E fome foufed Salmon, as mention'd in the fore- 
going Receipt, and mince it fmall, with Apples and 
Onion?, put to it Oil, Vinegar and Pepper, and ferve it up, 
garnifliing your Bifh with Slices of Lemon and Capers. 

To marinate and fry Salmon. 

CU T your Salmon in Slices, take off the Skin, then 
tske out the middle Bone, and cut each Slice afunder; 
then put them into a Sauce-pan, feafon them with Salt, Pep- 
per, half a Dozen Cloves, an Onion cut in Slices, fome 
whole Civ^es, a little fweet Bafil, Parlley, and a Bay Leaf; 
then fqueeze on them the Juice of three or four Lemons, or, 
inftead of that, ufe Vinegar ; let the Salmon lie in this Ma~ 
rinade for two Hours, then take it out, dry it with a Cloth, 
drudge it v.ith Flour, and fry it brown in clarify'd Butter; 
then lay a clean Napkin in i Difn, lay the Slices of fry'd 

Salmon; 



fhs L A D y '^S C O M P A N I N, 67 

Salmon upon the Napkin. Garnifh with fry'd Parfley, and 
ierve it up. 

To drefs Salmon mith f-LfJeet Sauce. 

CUT your Salmon in Slices, flour them, and fry them 
in refined Butter; then foak them a little while in fweet 
Sauce, made of Red Wine, Salt, Pepper, Cinnamon, Cloves, 
Sugar and green Lemon, and ferve them up with what Gar- 
niture you think proper, fuch as fry'd Sippets, dufted with 
powdered Cinnamon and Sugar, or lliced Lemon, powdered 
with Sugar. 

fo drefs Salmon z/z Stoltado. 

TAK E a whole Rand or Jole of Salmon, fcale it, and 
put it in an Earthen Stew-pan, put to it Wine, Vine- 
gar, Salt, grofs Pepper, fliced Ginger, four or five Cloves of 
GarJick, large Mace, and a few whole Cloves ; add alfo a 
Faggot of Rofemary, Thyme, fweet Marjoram, Parfley, 
and two or three Bay-]yeaves ; put in alfo a Pound of good 
Butter, clofe up the Earthen Pot v/ith Pafte^ bake it in an 
'Oven, ferve it up on Sippets, with fon.e of the Liquor and 
Spices on it : Run it over with beaten Butter and Barberries ; 
lay on it fome of the Herbs, Slices of Lemon and LemOn- 
peel. 

To pickle Salmon. 

CUT a Salmon into half a Dozen round Pieces, boll it 
in two Part3 Water, and ©ne of Vinegar ; but do not 
put in the Fifli till the Liquor has boiled for half an Hour : 
When the Salmon has boiled enough, take it up and drain it, 
then put in two Quarts of White Wine, and two Quarts of 
Vinegar; boil a goodQuanticy of Cloves, Mace, whole Pep- 
per, Rofemary Leaves, and Bay Leaves, for half an Hour : 
When your Salmon is cold, rub it with Salt and Pepper, and., 
put it up in Vv^hat you defign to keep it in, laying a Layer of 
Salmon, and another of Spice that was boiled in the Liquor i- 
pour your Liquor on the Salm.on, and if you renew it oncQ 
in three Months, the Fifli will Keep the whole Year. 

Another Way to ■pickle Salmon. 

TA K E two Quarts of good Vinegar, half an Ounce or 
black Pepper, half an Ounce of Jamaica Pepper ; 
Cloves and Mace, of each a Quarter of an Ounce, near a 
Pound of Salt; bruife the Spice grofly, and put all thefe to 

a fmall 



68 The Lady*s CoM•pANIO^f. 

a- fmall Quantity of Water, juft enough to cover your Fifh ; 
cut the Fifh round, three or four Pieces, according to the 
Size of the Salmon, and when the Liquor boils put in your 
Fifh, boil it well, then take it out of the Pickle, and let it 
cool ; and when it is cold put it into the Barrel, or Earthen- 
VefTel, you intend to keep it in, flrewing feme Spice and 
Bay-leaves between every Piece of Fifh i let the Pickle cool, 
and fkim off the Fat, and when it is quite cold, pour it on 
your FifK, and cover it up ver}^ clofe. 

To recover pickled Salmon that is decayed. 

TA KE a Gallon of White Wine Vinegar, Boil it hy 
itfelf, with three or four Slices of Ginger in it ; boil 
feparately two Quarts of Water, and a Pint of White Wine, 
with a Handful of Salt ; mix thefe together, then fleep the 
Fifh four or five Hours in warm Water, take it out and dry 
it ; mix the Pickles together, and put them to it lukewarm ; 
cover, or head up clofe, the Cafk or VefTel you put them in, 
and let them iland ten or twelve Days before you open them. 

To keep Salmon frep for a Month or more, 

HAVING fcaled and cleaned your Salmon as ufual, 
put it in an Earthen Pan, and cover it with good 
White Wine Vinegar, putting therein a Sprig or two of Rofe- 
mary, and keep it clofe flopp'd ; when you would boil it, 
flide it into a large Quantity of Water, when it boils, and 
let it have a Walm or two ; it will retain its Talle and Deli- 
cacy thus for a long, while. 

To boil a Turbut. 

PU T the Turbut into a Kettle, with White Wine Vine- 
gar, Verjuice, and Lemon, feafon with Salt, Pepper, 
Cloves, Onions, and Bay -leaf, add to thefe a little Water, 
and fome Milk, to caufe it to boil white ; boil it over a 

fentle Fire : Garnifh with Slices of Lemon on the Top,^ 
arfley and Violets, when in Seafon. 

Another IVay **$ boil a Turbut. 

LE T it lie an Hour or two, after it is gutted and wafh- 
ed, in Salt and Water ; and if it be not very fweet fhift 
the Water three or four Times, or oftener, as you fee Occa- 
fion, then lay it on a Filh-plate, and put it into a large 
Kettle of boiling Water, well faked, with a little Vinegar, 
fkim it well, and when boiled enough take it out, and let it 

drain,. 



The L A D y's C m p a n I on. % 

drain, and while it is draining melt fome Butter, and put 
into it the Body of a Lobfler, and the Meat, cut fmall ; give all 
a Boil or two. When the Filh is dilhed, garnifh with Lemon 
fliced, Horfe-radifh and Parflay, and ferve away with your 
Sauce in Bafons^ and a Bafon of plain melted Butter. 

A Turbut au Court -Bouillon. 

AFTER having gutted, wafhed, and dry'd your Tur- 
but, fold it up in a Napkin, and lay it in a large round 
Sauce-pan ; put as much Salt and Water into another Sauce- 
pan as will be fufficient to boil it, ilir it about from Time to 
Time, till tke Salt is melted ; then let it ftand a-while, and 
Urain it through a Linen Cloth into the Sauce-pan to the Tur« 
but ; when it is enough, take off the Sauce-pan, and fet it over 
live Embers, put in two Quarts of Milk, and let it ftand till 
you are ready to ferve ; then take up the Turbut, lay it on a 
Napkin folded in a Difh. Let your Garnifhing be green 
Parlley, fo ferve it for the iii-ft Courfe. 

Glazed Turbuts. 

TA K E a fmall Turbut, the Bignefs of your Dilh, gut 
and wafh it, cut off the Fins, and lard it with fine Ba- 
con ; take a Stew-pan, put in a Bottle of White Wine, with 
an Onion lliced. Salt, and fweet Bafil, and put your Stew- 
pan over a Stove ; when your Wine begins to boil, put in 
your Turbut, and when it has boiled fome Time, take it 
out, and get a Jelly in Readinefs made thus : Take fome 
Slices of V^eal and Ham, cut in fmall Pieces, and put them 
in a Stew-pan, with an Onion cut in Pieces ; moiften it with 
Broth, and put it to boil; being done, ftrain off your Jelly, 
put it in a clean Stew-pan over the Fire, and let it boil till it 
is turned to Caramel, that is, glazed ; then put in your Tur- 
but, and put your Pan over hot Cinders, that it may glaze 
well ; being glazed and ready to ferve up, put an Italian 
Sauce in your Diih, with your Turbut over it, and ferve it for 
a firft Courfe. 

Larded Turbut. 

TA K E a Turbut the Bignefs of your Difh, gut and 
walh it, cut off the Fins, and lard it with fine Bacon ; 
lay in the Bottom of a Silver Difh, or Baking-pan, Slices of 
Bacon, and put in your Turbut ; feafon it with fine Salt and 
a Glafs of Wine, fome Slices of Onion and of Lemon, and 
a Bunch of fweet l^afil, then cover it with Slices of Bacon, 
and put it to bake ; being done, take it out, and take off the 

Fat, 



yo The La d y's Companion. 

Fat, difh it up with an I/a/tan Cullis, or any other, and 
ferve it up hot for a lirll Courfe, or Remove. 

J Turbat witb Veal Gra^y. 

AFTER having prepared your Turbut, lay it in a large 
round Sauce-pan, with a Seafoning of Salt, Pepper, 
two Bunches of fweet Herbs, two Onions i^uck with Cloves, 
and one Bay Leaf: Lay into another Sauce-pan, two or 
three Pounds of a Fillet of Veal cut in Slices, and fome 
Bards of Bacon j cover the Sauce-pan, and fet it over a 
Stove with a flack Fire -, when the Meat begins to flick, put 
in a Piece of Butter, and a fmall Handful of Flour ; llir it 
about over the Stove Vv'ith a wooden Spoon, and when it is 
brown, moiften it with good Broth, and fcrape off with the 
Spoon all that ilicks to the Sauce-pan ; cover the Turbut 
with Slices of Bacon ; make a Bottle of Champaign, or 
White Wine, boiling hot, pour it on the Turbut with the 
Veal Gravy, and lay the Slices upon it ; fo fet it a Hewing, 
and when it is enough done, let it Hand in the Liquor a 
Couple of Hours over live Embers, that it may have the 
. Relifli of it: Then ferve it for the firft Courfe, with aRagoo 
of Sweetbreads, Cocks -Combs, Truffles and Muihrooms, or 
with a Ragoo of Cravrfilh. 

We likewife drefs a Turbut for Fifli Days in the fame 
Manner, only that inftead of the above Ingredients of Flefh, 
we ufe Butter and Fifh Broth, and ferve it with a Ragoo of 
the Melts of Carps, or with any other meagre Ragoo. 

To bake a Turbut. 

LA Y fome Butter in a Difh, of the Size of your Tur- 
but, and fpread it all over it ; let your Seafoning be 
Salt, Pepper, a little fcraped Nutmeg, fome minced Parlley, 
fome whole Cives, near a Pint of Champaivji, or White 
Wine : Cut off the Head and Tail of the Turbut, and hav- 
ing laid it in the Difli, feafon it above as under, rub it over 
with melted Batter, drudge it well with Bread crumbled 
very fmall, and bake it in an Oven ; take Care it be very 
brown, and ferve it with a Crawiifh Cullis, or with a Sauce 
of Anchovies: We fometimes ferve it dry.. 

Turbuts the Italian Way. 

TA K E a middling Turbut, gut, walh, and drain it, 
take a Baking-pan, and put in it fome Slices of Ba- 
con, fweet Bafil, and Lemon cut in Slices, then put in your 

Turbut; 



I'he La D y's Com pan ion. 71 

Turbut ; feafon it with Salt, Pepper, fine Spice_, Cloves, Le- 
mon-Juice and Lemons cut in Slices ; cover it with fome 
Slices of Bacon, and put it to bake in the Oven : Mince a 
Dozen Shalots, put t^iem into a Stew-pan with a Glafs of 
White Wine ; put in fome Beef Gravy, and a little Gravy of 
Ham ; put it over the Fire, and put in it two Spoonfuls of 
good Oil, the Juice of two Lemons, fome Salt, and pounded 
Pepper ; your Turbut being done, di(h it up, put your Sauce 
over it j ferve it up hot for a Courfe or Remove. 

To fry a Turbut. 

SLICE your Turbut, hack it with a Knife as if it were 
ribbed, flour it, fry it v/ith clarify'd Butter till it begins 
to turn brown, then drain it, make the Pan clean, put into 
it Claret or White Wine, Anchovy, Salt, ai:d Nutmeg, 
Ginger, and beaten Saffron : put in your Filh, fry it till 
half the Liquor is wafted, then put in a Piece of Butter, and 
put in a minced Lemon, mix them, rub a Difh with aShalot, 
or an Onion, or a Clove of Garlick, and put in the Fiih 
and the, Sauce it was lail fry'd in, and ferve it up. 

'To foufe a Turbut. 

BOIL your Turbut, put it into White Wine Vinegar, 
fome of -.he Water it was boiled in, and Salt ; then put 
in Tops of Fennel and Bay Leaves, Ginger, Nutmegs and 
Cloves, cover it clofe for Ufe. 

Another Way ty foufe a Turbut. 

DRAW, wafh, and cleanfe your Fifh from the Blood 
and Slime, put it into Water ar.d Salt boiling hot, let 
it boil gently, fkim it well, and as it boils put in more Salt, 
and when the Liquor has wafted a little, put in fome White 
Wine and Vinegar, Lemon-peel, two or three Cloves, and a 
little Mace ; when boiled enough, let it ftand till it is cold, 
put in a Lemon or two cut in Slices, take up the Fifh, put 
it into an Earthen Pan, pour on it the Liquor it was boiled 
in, and cover it up clofe.' 






To fwvj a Turbut. 

CU T it in Slices, aod fry them j when they are half 
fryM, put them into a Stew-pan with Claret, a little 
Verjuice, fome frefli Butter, three or four Slices of Onion 
and grated Nutmeg 3 when the Fifh is Ilew'd enough, difii it 

up. 



T 



72 ^he L A D y's C o m p a n 1 ij. 

up, run it over with beaten Butter, Slices of Orange, of Le- 
mon and Lemon-peel, and ferve it up. 

To crimp God the Dutch Way. 
A K E a Gallon of Pump Water, put in one Pound of 
Salt, and boil it half an Hour / fkim it well : You 
may put in a Stick of Horfe-radilh. a Faggot of fweet 
Herbs, and an Onion, but Water and Salt are beft ; put in 
your Slices of Cod, when it boils, and three Minutes will 
boil them : Take them out, and lay them on a Sieve or Pye- 
plate, and fend away with raw Parfley about it, and oily But- 
ter in a Cup. 

7o roaft a Cod's Head. 

GE T -a Head, wafh and fcour it very clean, then fcore 
it with a Knife, and ftrew a little Salt on it, and lay it 
©n a Stew-pan before the Fire, with fomething behind itj 
throw away the Water that runs" from it the firft half Hour; 
then ftrew on it fome Nutmeg, Cloves, Mace, and Salt, and 
bafle it often with Butter, turning it till it is enough. If it 
be a large Head, it will take four or five Hours roafting ; 
then take all the Gravy of the Fifh, as much White Wine, 
and more Meat Gravy, fome Horfe-radifh, one or two Sha- 
lots, a little Iliced Ginger, fome whole Pepper, Cloves, Mace, 
and Nutm.eg, a Bay-leaf or two ; beat this Liquor up with 
Butter, the Liver of the Fifh boiled, and broke, and ftrained 
in it, the Yolks of two or three Eggs, fome Oyfters, and 
Shrimps, with Balls made of Fiih, ar.d fryM Fifh round it. 
Garniih with Lemon and Horfe-radiTh. 

7o boil a Cod's Head. 

SE T a JCettle on the Fire with Water, Vinegar, and 
Salt, a Faggot of fweet Herbs, or an Oniqn or two : 
When the Liquor boils put in the Head on a Fifh Bottom, 
and in the Boiling put in cold Water or Vinegar ; when it is 
boiled take it up, or put it in a Difh that fits your Fifh Bot- 
tom : For the Sauce take Gravy, or Claret, boiled up with a 
Faggot of fweet Herbs, or an Onion, two or three Ancho- 
vies, drawn up with two Pounds of Butter, a Pint of Shrimps, 
Oyfters, the Meat of a Lobfler fhred fine, then put the Sauce 
in China Bafons, flick fmall Toafls or> the Head ; lay on, 
and about it, the Spawn, Milt, or Liver. Garnifh it with 
fry'd Parfley, fliced Lemon, Barberries, or Horfe-radifh, and 
fiy'd Fiih. 



The L A D y 's C M p A N I o N , 73 

J fle'ujed Cod. 

TAKE your Cod and lay it in thin Slices in the Bot- 
tom of a Dilli, with a Piiil of Gravy, and half a Pint; 
-of White Wine, fome Oyilers and their Liquor, feme Sale 
and Pepper, a little Nutmeg, and let it Hew till it is almofl 
.enough, then thicken it with a Piece of Butter rolled in 
Flour, let it fiew a little longer ; ferve it hot. Garniih widi 
Lemon fliced. 

To drefs a Cod's Tail. 

SCALE it, loofen the Skin fo that it may fall from th^ 
Flefh, take away the Fillets, and fill up the void Space, 
with a good Filh Farce, or with fine Herbs, Chippings of 
Eread and Butter, then put the Skin upon the Tail again, 
bread it neatly, and put it into an Oven to give it a Colour : 
Make a Ragoo for it. Gar-niih it with proper Garnitures, 
and ferve it up. 

T<7 fry a Cod's Tail. 

SC A. L D it in hot Water, but do not boil it, crxiin it. 
Hour it, fry it in refined Butter ; ferve it up v/'th white 
Pepper and Orange -juice : Garniih it with Pieces taken off 
from the Cod's Back, put into Pafle and fry"d, 

To brcil Cod- Sounds. 

LE T them lie in hot Water a few Minutes, take them 
out and rub them well with Salt, to take off the Skin 
and black Dirt; when they look white, put them in Water 
and give them a Boil ; take them out and Hour them well 
pepper and fait them, then broil them ; when they are 
.enough lay them in your Di(h, and pour melted Butter and 
Mullard in the Difh : Broil them whole. 



a 



Cod. 



TAKE a large Cod, and cut the thick Part into Pi.-ces^ 
an Inch thick, then flour it v.ell, and put it on your 
Gridirori over a flow Fire ; make your Sauce with a Glafs 
of ^White Wine, an Anchovy, fome whole Peeper, or a 
little Horfs-radifh, a little Gravy, a Spoonful of Wrilnut- 
Liquor, with fome Shrimps and Oyfcers, or picked Muih- 
rooms, boil it -together, and thicken it with Butter rolled \\\ 
Flour, with fome of the Liver of the Fifn, that has bee;\ 
^'°L. L • E parboikxi 



y4 ^^<? ^ ' ADY*s Companion. 

parboiled and bruifed into it. Garnilh with fliced Lemon 
and icraped Horfe-radiih. 

For Frkafeying Qo6.0f(e Chapter of Fricafees. 

To Jleiv Carps 'white. 

FIRST {bale them, and cleanfe them -, fave the Roes 
and Milts, theii ftew them in fame good white Broth, 
and feaibn them with Cloves and Mace, Salt, and a Faggot 
cf Herbs ; pat in a little White Wine, and when ftewed 
enough, thicken your Sauce with the Yolks of five Eggs, 
and pals ofF the Roes, and dip them in the Yolks of Eggs 
and Flour, and fry them with forne Sippets o^ French Bread ; 
then fry fonie Parlley, .and when you difli them, garniih with 
the Roes, Pariley, and Sippets. 

To fiiiii Carps bro^o:n. 

SCALE and cleanfe them, then pafs them 6ft in brown 
Butter on both S'des, or lay them in your Pan raw ; 
Urew over all fome grated Bread, Pepper and Salt, Thyme 
and Paruey minced ; put into them cne Quart of Claret, 
and cne Pmt of Gravy, according to the Largenefs of your 
Fifn, they muH be quite covered ; put in alfo four Anchovies, 
fome grated Horfc-radilh, one Shalot chopped fmall, two 
Slices of Lemon, and a Piece of Butter, Gold Colour, with 
a Spoonful of Flo^U', and put to your Carp, which will 
thicken it as Cream ; fry fome Sippets with the Roe and Milt, 
and fome ParCey, fo ferve up hot. 

To f>y Carp. 

AFTER having fcaled and drawn them, flit them in 
two, ftrew them over with Salt ; drudge them well 
with Flour, and fry them in clarihed Butter : When they 
are fried, you may either ferve them dry, and eat them 
only with Juice of Orange, or elfe you may prepare a Ra- 
goo of Mufhrocms, the Milts of Carps and other Filh, and 
Artichoak Bottoms : Fry fome thin Slices of Bread, and put 
them into the Sauce, together with feme fliced Onion, and 
fome Capers, let them boil in it. Difl. up your Carp, throw 
your Ragoo upon it, and let your GainiiUre be fried Crulls 
of Bread and fliced Lemon. 



7* 



The L A D y's C m p a n I n, *;^5 

To drffs Carp a la Daube. 

GE T a Couple of Soals and a Pike, and bone them c 
Of the Flelh of them make a Farce, halhing it ver/ 
fmall, together with a few Cives, fom^e Spice, Salt, Pepper, 
Nutmeg, frefh Butter, and fome Cru.nb of Bread, foaked in 
Cream : Thicken your Farce with Yolks of Eggs ; then take 
a large Carp, fill the Body of it witu this F'arce, and puc 
it a ftewing in an oval Stew-pan, over a little Fire, in White 
Wine, fealoned with Salt, Pepper, Cloves, fome Slices of 
Lemon, a Bunch of fweet Herbs, and good frefli Butter : 
While it is a ftewing, get ready a Ragoo of Mufhrooms^ 
Truffles, Morels, Artichoak Bottoms, Milts of Carp, and 
Tails of Crawliih : Lay your Carp on an oval Difh, pour 
your Ragoo upon it, and {qv-jq it up very warm. 

y^ Carp a la Chamhor. 

YO U muil take a large Carp, fcale and wafh it, lard i£ 
with thick Bacon and Ham ; being larded, take half a 
Dozen of Pigeons, with fat Livers, Sweetbreads, Murnrooms, 
-and Truffles, if you have any; put altogether for a Moment 
in a Stew-pan, feafon it with Pepper, Salt, fweet Herbs, a 
little Cullis and Lemon -juice ; then put this into your Carp, 
and few it up. Lay a Napkin over your Drefler, take fome 
Slices of Bacon, fpread them over you",. Napkin the Length 
of the Carp, put more Slice over it ; then fold it up in the 
fame Napkin, and tie it on both Ends ; then take a Leg of 
Veal, cut it into thin Slices, put them in a Stew-pan, with 
fmall Slices of Ham, Onions and CaiTOts cut in Slices j put 
the Stew pan over the Fire, let them fweat like Gravy of 
Veal, and when they begin to ftick moiilentliem with Broth-, 
then put them in an oval Stew-pan, together with the Meat 
and Gravy : Now put in your Carps feafoned v/ith Pepper, 
Salt, fweet Herbs, Cloves, Mace, three Bottles of Whits 
Wine, and a Lemon cut into Slices : Cover your Carp with. 
the Liquor, let it boil very gently. Make a Ragoo with 
Sweetbreads of Veal, Mufhrooms, Truffles, Cocks-combs^ 
fat Livers and foft Roes of Carps. Take half a Dozen of 
young Pigeons, which you drefs au SJiel, or with fweet 
Bafil, or inHead of Pigeons, a Couple of Chickens cut in 
four, and marinated, or elfe larded with thin Bacon, ard 
glazed like Fricandos. Take half a Dozen Veal Sweetbreads, 
larded with Hne Racon, let them ftew a:.u glaze like Fri- 
candos : Take alfo a Dozen of large fine Crawiifti, bml 

E 2 thcmj 



76 



The Lady's Companion. 



them, then pick their Tails, cut off the frnall Claws ; if 
you have Crawf.jfh enough to make a Cullis, you may ule 
if inftead of other Cullis : Your Carp being done, and ready 
to be ferved up, take it out, let it drain, keep in Readinels 
your Ragoo of Pigeons, Sweetbreads of Veal and Crawfiih, 
unfold the Napkin, take off the Fat, thendifn Op your Carp 
with the Ragoo over it. Garniih your Diili with one Craw- 
£fn, one Pigeon, and one Sweetbread, placed by Turns till 
it is full ; ferve it up hot. 

TheCe Sorts of Entries generally ferve to remove Scops. 

Ei.try cf Carps a rEjhifa^i\ 

WHEN you have fcaled and waflied your Carps, gut 
and \^a{h the Infide with Wine ; take an oval Stew- 
pan, the Bignefs of the Carp, put in fome Onions cut in 
Slices, and then your Carp ; feafon it with Pepper, Salt, 
Cloves, a Da(h of Vinegar, and a Bottle of Wine, moiften 
it with hot Water, put it over a Stove, let it Hew ; when 
ilcu-ed take it off, put the W^ine, with which you have 
uafiied your Carp, into a Stew-pan, v.'ith fome Anchovies 
cut fmall ; let it have a Boil or two, then ftrain it off; put 
it again into the Stew-pan, with a good Lump of Butter, and 
a Dull of Flour to thicken the Sauce; add Lemon-juice : 
Put your Stew-pan over the Fire, thicken your Sauce, let it 
be re-!jfiiing ; -beings well done, put in fome good Butter 
rolled in Flour ; Being ready to lerve, difli it, and ferve it 
up hot. 

Ancther Entry cf Carps feiveci. 

YOUR Carp being fcaled, wafned, and gutted, fplit it 
in two, cut each Flalf in three Pieces, put them in a 
Stew-pan, with a Dozen of fmall Onions blanched, feafon 
them v.'irh Pepper ar.xl Salt, a Bunch made with Parfley and 
iweet Herbs ; moiften tliem with half a Bottle of Wine, put 
them a ilewing ; take fome Butter, put it in a Stew-pan with 
fome Flour ; put it over the Fire, Itir it till it begins to have 
a Colour; moil^en it with a' little Fiih Giavy, or with Wa- 
ter ; this being well mixed and flirred together, put it into 
the Stew-pan with your.^Carp : Let it be relilhing, ^ilh it, 
and ferve it up h-Ct. 



*Io 



2l^f L AD Y's C OM PA NlOlf. 77 

To fien.v Carps. 

CU T them in Pieces according to their Size, fet them a 
ftewing in a Kettle, or Sauce-pan, .with White V/inc, 
or Claret, and feafon fihem well with Salt, Pepper, Onicn- 
fhred fmall, Capers, and foms Crufts of Bread ; let dl this 
ftew together, and when it is enough, and the Sauce grown 
thick, ferve it up . 

Entry of a hrciled Carp. 

SCALE and gut your Carp, flice it upon the Back, rub 
it with melted Butter, pepper and {alt it, then broil it ; 
put to it a Ragoo made with Mufhrooms, foft Roes, Arti- 
choak Bottoms, with Onions and Capers ; being ready to 
ferve, difh it, with this Ragoo over it , "ferve it up hot, 

A Carp the Bohemian Way. 

WASH your Carp, cut off the Fin and the End of the. 
Tail, and take out the Gills, but do not fcale it ; 
feafon it with Salt, Pepper, Mace, a Lump of good Butter, 
a Couple of Pots of ftrong Beer, a Glafs of good Brandy, 
Onions, a Bunch of fweet Herbs, Parfley, green Onions, 
fweet Bafil, Cloves, and Thyme, and let it boil upon a quick 
Fire ; being boiled, and of a good Tafte, thicken your Sauce 
with good Butter rolled in Flour, and ferve it up hot. 

At another Tim.e flit it into tv/o, cut it in Bits, and boil it 
after the fame Manner. 

To diefs a Carp ati Ccurt-Bouillofu 

WHEN the Carp Is fcaled and drawn, pull out the. 
Fins, put it in an earthen Pan, and throw fomc 
fcalding Vinegar and Salt upon it ; boil it in White W^mc 
and Vinegar, with Butter, Pepper, Onion, Cloves, and s 
Bay-leaf; when it is boiled, garniili with Parfley, ferve it up 
in a clean Napkin for the firfl Courfe. 

To drefs a Carp in a Demi-Court-Bouillon. 

CU T the Carp into four Quarters, leaving the Scales 
on, then boil it in Wine, a little Vinegar and Verjuice, 
Salt, Pepper, Cloves, Nutmeg, Chibbols, Bay-leaA^es, burnt 
Butter and Orange-peel : Boil the Broth till there is but a 
fma 1 Quantity left ; put in fome Capers, and when you 
ferve it, garnii^ with Slices of Lemon. 

E 3 A Carp 



78 ^he Lady's Companion. 

J Carp larded nvith Eelin Ragoo. 

TA K E a live Carp, knock him on the Head, fcale and. 
flice him from Head to Tail in four or five Slices, 
on, one Side^ to the Bone j then take a good Silver Eel, and 
cut it as for Larding, as long and as thick as your little 
Finger, rolled in Spice andfvveet Herbs, and Bay-leaf pow- 
derd ; then lard it thick on the flalh'd Side, fry it in a good 
Pan of Lard : Then make for it a Ragoo with Gravy, 
White Wine, Vinegar, Claret, the Spawn, Mulnrooms, 
Balls, Capers, grated Nutmeg, Mace, a little Pepper, and. 
Salt, thicken it with brown Butter, and garnifti with fliced 
Lemon. 

^0 Jlenu Carps a la Roy ale, 

WHEN they are cleanfed and gutted, lay them in a. 
Marinade of Claret, Salt, Vinegar, whole Spice, 
whole Onions, Lemon-peel {hred, and Horfe-radilh fcraped ; 
then fet them a flewing gently for three Quarters of an. 
Hour J then beat fome Butter up in a Sauce-pan, with fome 
of the Fiih-Broth, a Couple of Anchovies, Shrimps, and 
Oyfters. Difli your Carps on Sipj>« ts, pour this Sauce over 
them ; garnifh the Difh with the Milts, Slices of Lemon, 
<md Horfc-radilh. 

7o hajh a Carp. ^ 

SCALE your Carp, fliin it, and bone it, then hafh th^ 
Flefh ; put it into a Sauce-pan, and dry it over the Fire, 
till it grows white ; then lay it on the Table ; take Mulh- 
300ms, Truffles,, Cives, Parfley, fhred them very fmall, mix 
them together, and put to it. Brown a little Butter and 
Jlour over the Fire, and put your Haih into it, giving it two 
qr. three Turns ; feafon it with Pepper, Salt, and a Slice of 
Lemon, moiften with good Filh-Broth, and thicken with 
» three Spoonfuls of a Cullis of Crawfifn, or other Filh j thea 
ferve it up for firfl Ceurfe. 

To marinate a Carp. 

CLEANSE and fcale, then dry your Carp, and fpiit it 
down the Back ; flour and fry it crifp in Sallad Oil ; 
then fry it in a deep Difh ; and putting White Wine Vine- 
gar into a Pipkin, with Salt, Pepper, fiiced Ginger, Nut- 
meg, whole Cloves, and large Mace, with a Bundle of fweet 
Herbs of all Sorts, bgil theni all together a little, and poiir 



ne L A D y's C o m p a n I o n. 79 

it on your Fiih, then prefently cover it ciofe for two Hours, 
then lay ibme Slices of Lemon on it, and keep them clofe 
covered for Ufe. 

To make a Bifque cf Carps^ 

GE T twelve fmall Carps and one large one, draw thert-, 
take out the Milts, iiay the fmall Carps, cut o-f their 
Heads ; take out their Tongues, pick the FleOi from the 
Bones, put to it a Dozen large Oyllers, -Snd the Yoiks of 
three or four hard E^gs : feafon with Salt, Cloves, and 
Mace, mafh them all well together, and make it into a lliit 
Pafte, with the Yolks of Eggs ,• roll the Paile up in Balls, lay 
them into a Stew-pan, put to them the Tongues and Milts 
of your Carps, three or four Anchovies, and twenty or thirty- 
large Oyilers, with about half a Pound of frefh Butter, a 
little White Wine, a whole Onion, and the Juice of one or 
two Lemons, and fet them over a gentle Fire to ilew. i a 
the mean Time, fcaJd and draw your large Carp, lay it with 
the Heads of your other Carps in a deep Pan, pour to it fo 
much White Wine Vinega; as will cover it, and be fufiicient 
to boil it in ; feafon it with Salt, Pepper, a Race of Ginger, 
whole Mace, an Onion or two, and a Lemon fhred ; put iu- 
alfo a Bunch of fweet Herbs ; let your Carp lie in this for 
half an Hour. Put this Liquor, with the Seafoning, into a. 
Stew-pan, lay in your Carp when it boils j let it ftew gently, 
and after fome Time put in your Heads. When it is irewed- 
enough, take it off, and let it fland by in the Stew-pan : 
Then to drefs your Bifque, fet a large Silver Dilh ovef a 
Chafing-difh, put in Sippets, and a Ludleful of Broth, then 
lay your Carp in the Middle of the Dilh, with the Heads of 
the other twelve Carps round it, and the Milts, Tonguei, 
and Oyllers ; then pour in the Liquor in which the Balls, 
Tongues, C5<r. were flewed, and fqueeze in the Juice of a.. 
Sf'vi/L Orange or Lemon. Garnifh with Slices of Orange 
or Lemon, and pickled Barberries, and ferve it up to Table. 

To broil a Carp. 

W" H E N your Carp is prepared, rub it over with But- 
ter, and ftrew it with Salt; then lay it on the Grid- 
iron : In the mean Tim.e prepare a Sauce of drawn Butter, 
Anchovies, Capers, Vinegar, and lliced Lemon, fcalcnecL 
with Pepper, Salt, anjd Nutmeg. 



So The L A D Y^^^s Companion. 

To boil a Carp,. 

SCALE it, gut it, and fave the Blood, then boil it in 3» 
good relilh'd Liquor half an Hour ; make Sauce with 
xhQ Blood, Claret, and good ftrong Gravy, three or four An- 
chovies, an Onion, two Shalots Ihred, a little whole Pep- 
per, a Blade of Mace, a Nutmeg quartered ; let all thefe 
flew together ; then melt fome Butter, and thicken your 
Sauce with it; let your Fifh be well drained, and ferve up 
with your Sauce pour'd over it, with fome Juice of Lemon. 

To roaji Carp. 

7 H E N your Carp is cleaned and prepared, fcotclv 
them, and wafh them over with Eggs, then flrew 
©verthem fome Thyme, Fariley, Pepper, S2.It, and Nutmeg,, 
well mixed together ; fpit them on a Lark-fpit, or lay them 
in a Frame before the Fire ; bafte them with Claret, An- 
chovy, and Butter, and when roailed, make your Sauce with 
thickeneJ Butter, Claret, Gravy, Anchovy, and the Milts of 
the Carps : You muft dip the Roes in Yolks of Eggs, and fry 
them : Garnifli your Difa with Parfley and fried Sippets, and 
ferve them up. 

To roajl a Carp in the O'ven. 

TA K E a live Carp, draw it, walk it, and take away 
the Gaul, Milt, or Spawn ; tlien make a Pudding of 
Almond Parte, grated Bread, Salt, Cream, grated Nutmeg, 
Yolks of Eggs, candied Lemon-peel, Carraway Seeds, make 
it iViff, and put it through the Carp's Gills into the Belly \ 
then lay fome fmall Sticks crofs a Pan, and lay the Carp 
upon the Sticks, and put it into an Oven ; make a Sauce of 
White Wine, or Claret, and the Gravy that dropp'd from the 
Carp, with a Couple of Anchovies dilToiv'd in it \ add fome 
grated Bread, then, beat it up thick with fome Butter and the 
Yolks of Eggs J dilh your Fifli, pour this Sauce upon it, 
and ferve it up. 

7o fry Lampreys. 

BLEED them, and keep the Blood, then wafh them in 
hot Water to take oft* their Slime, and cut them in 
Pieces ; fry them in clarified Butter, with a little fry'd 
Flour, 'white Wine, Salt, Pepper, Nutmeg, a Bunch of 
fweet Herbs, and a Bay-leaf; iry all this together very well, 

thea 



Ihe L A D Y 's C O M P A N 1 N, 8 I 

then put in the Blood, and a few Capers, and ierve it hot. 
Garniih with Siices of Lemcn. 

To diffs Lampreys iv'th Sweet Sauce. 

AFTER having fliced and cut them in Pieces, take out 
the String that runs along their Backs ; tofs them up 
in Butter, and a little fry'd Flour, till they are brown ; then 
add fome Red Wine, a little Sugar, Cinnamon, Salt, Pep- 
per, and two or three Slices of Lemon ; when they are 
enough done, put in the Blood, give them a Turn or two 
more -, fo diih up your Ragoo, and ferve it hot. 

To broil Lampreys. 

TA K E off the Slime, and then cut them in Pieces, as 
you do Eels that you intend to broil ; melt a Lurrp of 
Butter, and put to it fome Ihred Gives, Parfiey, and favcury 
Herbs, with Pepper and Salt ; put your Pieces of Lampre/ 
into the Sauce-pan, and flill it all well together ; then take 
them, out, and drudge them with very fine Crumbs of Bread, 
and broil them over a gentle Fire ; ferve them with a brown 
Sauce made as follows : Take a Lump of Butter, put it into 
the Sauce-pan, with a Pinch of Flour, and brown it; add 
fome Cives, ParHey, and Aiulhroom.s, all fhred wcry fmall, 
a few Capers, and an Anchovy, and fcafon the Whole with 
Pepper and Salt, moiflcn it with a little Fifh- Broth, nnd 
thicken it with a Crawfifn, or other Cullis : Pour this Sauce 
into the Bottom of your Diili, lay your Lampreys all round 
it, and ferve them hot. '^ 

We ferve them likewife with a fweffB^auce, made with 
Wine, or Vinegar, a Lump of Sugar, a f^all Slick of Cin- 
namon, and a Bay-leaf, all boiled together.' Then take 
out the Cinnamon and Bay-leaf, pour the Sauce into a 
Difh, and lay the boiled Lamprey round it^ fo k\-\c it 
warm. 

Sometimes you may ferve a broiled Lamprey with Oil in 
this Manner : Take fome Oil and Vinegar, iPepper, Salt, a 
little Muftard, one Anchovy, a few Capers, and a little Faif- 
ley fhred very fmall, beat all this together in a Porringer, 
then pour it into a Saucer, which we place in the Middle of 
the Dilh, and garnim it all round with Lampreys ; fo ferv;^ 
it. 

At other Times you may ferve broikd Lampreys dry, in 
Plates, or little Difhes. 



E ? 



■- 



§2- 5r^<? Lad y's COMP A N 10 N; 

To drefs Lampreys the Italian Way, 

SIC IN tKern, and feafon them with Salt, Pepper, Ginger, 
Cinnamon, and Nutmeg ; put them into your Paile, 
either whole, or cut in Pieces ; put in Raifms, Currants, 
dried Prunes, Dates, and Cherries, and cover it all over 
with Butter -, clofe up your Pye, and bake it. Then chop 
feme fweet Herbs, pound Ibme Jordan Almonds, and boil 
with Grapes, Raifms, Sugar, and Verjuice, and when it is 
baked pour in this Liquor ftrained. Ice it, and ferve it up 
hot with V/hiteWine, the Bload of the Lampreys, the Juice 
of Oranges and Cinnamon. 

To farce Eels. 

YO U may farce them on the Eone, in the Nature of 
a White Pudding, you make your Farce of the Flefh 
of your Eels, which you mull pound in a Mortar, and put 
to it fome Cream, fome Crumbs of Bread, with Parfiey, 
Gives, Truffies, and Mufhrooms, feafoned as ufual. Lay: 
thsFarce very handfornely on the Bones of your Eels, drudge 
them well with very fmall Crumbs of Bread, and bake them 
in an Oven in a Tart-pan, till they are of a fine brown Ca-> 
laur. 

To drefs Eels ^with ixhite Sauce. 

HAVING fkinn'd and cut them in Pieces, blanch, 
them in boiling Water, then dry them with a Napkin, 
tpfs them up in Butter, with Salt, Pepper, Cloves, and Lemon- 
peel, together with a Glafs of V/hite Wine. Tofs up like- 
wife fome Artichoak Bottoms, Mufhrooms, and Afparagus,. 
with Butter and favoury Herbs ; then make a white Sauce 
with the Yolks of Eggs and Verjuice, fo ferve them. Gar- 
niih with fry'd Bread and Slices of Lemon. 

To drefs Eels njoith hronxin Sauce, 

YOUR Eels being cut in Pieces, tofs them up in clarr- 
fied Butter, a little Flour, a little Fiih-Broth, or thin 
Puree, Muihrdoms, Cives, and Parfley, Ihred very fmall, and 
a Faggot of Herbs ; to which add Salt, Pepper, Cloves, and 
Capers ; make all this boil together, and when your Ragoo 
is almoll ready, put to it a little Verjuice and White Wine, 
and let it boil a little longer, then thicken it with an Egg 
to, t^ke oiF the Fat, ajad ferve it warm. 



Tg 



The Ladv^s Companion. S3 

Tj f'-y Eeis. 

ST Pv I P them, take out the Bones, cut them_ in Pieces, 
and lay them to marinate for two Hours in Vinegar, 
Salt, I'epper, Bay-leaves, fiiced Onion, and. Juice of Le- 
ir.on ; then drudge them wilh Flour, and fry them in clari- 
fied Butter i ferve them dry with fried Farfley. 

T^o broil Eels. 

AFTER having ftri; p'd and cut them in Pieces, make;- 
Gadies in thein, a.'d lay them a-while in melted But- 
ter, a io."^ favoury Herbs, Parlley, Onion; Pepper, and Salt,, 
then warm this a little, and Ihake it all well together ; this 
done, take out the Eels Bit by Bit, drudge them with Crumbs 
of Bread, and broil them over a gentle Fire till they are of 
a fine brown Colour ; when they are broiled, make a Sauce 
with beaten Butter, Cives, Parfiey, Capers, and a little Vine- 
gar ', then put your Sauce in the Difn, and lay the Eels- 
round it. 

We likewife ferve broiled Eels with green Sauce, which; 
we make as follows : Pound fome Sorrel, and fquecze out 
the Juice ; then cut an Onion very fmall, and tofs it up with 
Butter, and minced Capers : Mix with it your Juice of Sor- 
rel, fqueeze in an Orange, and add fome Pepper and Salti 
fo ferve it for fiill Courfe.,* we alfo ferve it with ^uuce Rc" 
bart. 

To drefs Eels a la Daube. 

MINCE the Flefh of Eels and Tench, feafon it with 
Salt, Pepper, Cloves, and Nutmeg ; cut the Flefh of' 
another Eel into Lardoons, of which lay one Layer on the 
Skins, and then another of the' minced Flefh, continuing ta 
do fo till you have made it into the Shape of a Brick of 
Bread ; wrap it up in a Linen Cloth, and ilew it in half V/a- 
ter half Red Vv^ine, feafoned v^ith Cloves, Bay-leaf, and 
Peppei-. Let it cool in its own Liquor, cut it in Slices, and 
feive :: :'n Plates, or little Dilhes. 

To drefs Eels the Englilh Way, 
f ) UB an Eel with Salt, then with a Towel, to tnke off 
Xv the Slime, fKin it, and cut it in three or four Pisces 
according to its Length ; lay them in a Diih, and pcur on 
them fome good White V/ine ; when they have L.in a 1 ttle 
While in it, take them out, and cut Notches froiiv Spac to 

bpace 



§4 ^be LaDY''S CoMPANfOW. 

Space on the Back and Sides, fill up thefe Incifions with a 
Sort of Farce, which make as follows : Take the Crumb of 
White Bread, and crumb it very fmall ; take likewife all 
Sorts of favoury Herbs, Parfley, and Gives, a: d fhred them 
very fmall ; fome Pepper, Cloves, Nutmeg, and Salt ; add 
to this the Yolks of Ibme hard Eggs, a convenient Quantity 
of frefh Buiter ; and having mixed all this together, fill up 
with this Farce the Incifions you made in the Eel ; which 
you then flip again into its Skin, and tie it at both Ends, 
prick it in feveral Places with a Fork, and then either roail 
it on the Spit, or broil it on the Gridiron ; \^hen it is done 
enough, take off the Skin, and ferve it dry with Juice of 
Lemon, or elfe make a White Sauce of Eutcer, Vinegar,. 
Salt, and White Pepper, together with Anchovies and Ca- 
pers. 

Note, That only die large Eels are drefifed in this Man- 
ner. 

7o ha/h Eels. 

C^ E T large Eels, draw, waili, bone, and mince them ;. 
J feafon them with Cloves, Mace, and an Onion cut into 
four Quarters, put in a little White Wine, and fome Oy- 
Iters, and an Anchovy or two ; let them ftew over a gentle 
Fire, and ferve them up on Sippets : Garniih the Dilh with 
fome Slices of Orange. 

To jie^M Eels. 

GET large Eels, draw, wafh, and fkin them, then cut 
them of what Length you pleafe, and put them into 
a Stew-pan with White Wine, and a little Salt ; when they 
are half flewed, put to them fome Horfe- radi{h, an Onion, 
quartered, a little grated Bread, and a little beaten Cloves 
and Mace ; when they are almofi done, put in a little But- 
ter, and a Glafs of Ciaret, and an Anchovy ; give them a 
Walm or tv/o, and ferve them up. 

To Jcufe Eels. 

GE T four large fat Eels, fcour them in Salt, draw, 
wain and cleanfe them. ; cut them in Pieces four Inches 
long, fcore on the Back, and lay then, to foak in White 
V/ine Vinegar and Salt, for about two Hours ; then boil 
them with Onions, fvveet Kerbs, and ibme Blades of Mace ; 
then pour away the Liquor, let them cool ; then boil a 
Pkit ofthat Lic^uor with a Pint of White Wine, and boil it 

up 



"TJk L A D Y*S C O M P A N I O N, 85 

up with Ibme pounded Saffron ; then tajce out the Spices that 
were boiled with the Eels, and put them into your White 
Wine ; put your Eels into a Pot, and pour this Soufe over 
them. 

Eel-Powts in CafTerole. 

HAVING cleanfed your Eel-Powts, lay by their Li- 
vers, and fry the Powts in bnrnt Butter ; then put 
them, with the fame Butter, into a Stew-pan, adding a little 
Flour and White Wine ; feafon them with Salt, Pepper^ 
Nutmeg, a Faggo4: of fweet Herbs, and a Slice of Lemon : 
Make a Ragoo with the fame Sauce as that of the Eel- 
Powts, adding their Livers and Mufhrooms ; when you are 
r-eady to ferve, garnifh your Diih with it, adding the Juice 
of Lemon. 

^0 funjj Eels nx:ith. Broth. 

SKIN, gut, and waili them very clean in fix or eight 
Waters, to wafh away all the Sand, put them in a Sauce- 
pan, with a Blade or two of Mace, and a Cruil of Bread ; '>.. 
put juft Vv^'ater enough to cover them clofe, let them flew* 
very foftly ; when they are enough, difh them up with the 
Broth, and have a little plain melted Butter in a Cup to eat 
the Eels with. The Broth will be very good, and is fit for 
weakly and confumptive Conllitutions. 

Another Way to Jienv Eels. 

CLEANSE your Eels as above, then cut them in^ 
Pieces about as long as your Finger, put jufl Water 
enough for Sauce, put in a fmall Onion fluck with Cloves, 
a little Bundle of fweet Herbs, a Blade or two of Mace, and 
fome whole Pepper, in a thin Mufiin Rag ; cover it clofe, 
and let them Ikw very foftly. 

Look at them now and then, put in a little Piece of Butter 
rolled in Flour, and a little chopped Parfley : When you find. 
they are quite tender, and well done, take out the Onion^ 
Spice, and fweet Herbs ; put in Salt enough to feafon it ; 
then difh them up with the Sauce. 

To totjl Eds 'uith Bacon. 

TAKE great Eels and fcour them well, and throw 
away the Heads, gut them, and cut them into Pieces, 
then cut fome fat Bacon \Q\-y thin, and wrap them in it, and 
fbme Bay-leaves, then tie them ^p the Spit, arjd baHe them 

with. 



S5' ^he L A D y 's Co m p a n i on. 

with Claret and Butter ; and when they are enough drudge 
them with grated Bread ; ferve them with Wine, Butter, and 
Anchovies for Sauce. 

To rocji, a large Eel. 

WASH it in Water and Salt, cut off the Herxd, and 
flea ofF the Skin a little below the Vent i gut it, 
wipe it clean with a Cloth, and give it three or four Scotches 
with a Knife, then fhred feme i'arfiey, Uript Thyme, Win- 
ter Savoury, fome large Oyfiers parboiled, and fueet Mar- 
joram, with an Anchovy j mix them with Salt and Butter, 
and put them into the Belly of the Eel, and into the Scotches, 
then diaw the Skin over the Eel again ; tie the Skin with a 
Packthread to keep in all the Moifture ,• faften it to a Spit, 
and roail it leifureiy ; ba'le it with Water and Salt till the 
Skin breaks, and then bafre it with Butter ; make your 
Sauce of beaten Butter and White Wine, with three or four 
Anchovies di£blved in it. 

Another IVay. 

TAKE a large Eel, ilrip it, dra.vr it, cleanfe it, and 
cut it into Pieces about four Inches long ; then dry, 
them well, feafon them v.'ith Salt, Pepper, Nutmeg, and 
Mace beaten, with two or three Oniotis, a Piece of Lemon- 
peel and Thyme minced fmall ; rub your Seafoning, well 
mingled, into the Pieces of Eel, and faften it on them with 
the Yolks of Eggs ; fpit the Eel crofs-ways on a fmall Spit, 
putting a Leaf of Sage or Bay-leaf between every Piece. 
You may either turn them round on the Spit, or fet them 
with one Side to the. Fire till they hifs and grow brown ; and 
then turn the other Side; fave the Gravy in the Diih in: 
which the Eel was feafcnedj bafteit vvith drawn Butter, then 
put to your Gravy a pretty large Onion, Nutmeg grated, 
and Oyfters minced ; let them have a Walm or two with a. 
little drawn Butter.j difh your Eel, and pour your Sauce 
over it. 

To hah Eels. 

WHEN your Eels are flripp'd and well cleaned, take 
a (hallow Pot, and cut your Eels in Lengths, ac- 
cording to the Depth of your Pot, and put them in {o that 
thev may ftand end-ways ; put a fmall Quantity of Water, 
Sale, Pepper, Shalots cut frr.all, fome Sage chopped fmall. 
Marjoram, Kofemary Tops, and Thyme, and fet them in 

th& 



The Lady^'s Companion, S7- 

the Oven j, when they are baked, beat up fome Butter with, 
the Liquor that conies from them, and ibme White Wine, 
and ferve them up. 

fo pickle a Corger Eel.. 

FLEA it, and cut it in Pieces, and bind them up together 
with Tape ; then boil it in Water, Vinegar, and Salt, 
v/ith a Handful of Fennel ; put it into a Pan with fome of 
the. fame Liquor, Vinegar, and Beer, and lay a Handful oa 
green Fennel on the. Top of the Fifh. 

To marinate a Coiiger Eel. 

CU T it Pieces, fry it in clarify "d Butter, put it into an^ 
earthen Pan, laying between every Layer of Fifh 
fry'd Bay-leaves, Mace, and lliced Ginger, and a few. 
Cloves ; then pour in White Wine Vinegar and Salt, and 
cover them up clofe. 

To ffttchcock E jIs. 

SP L I T a large Eel down the Back, and joint the Bones,, 
cut it into two or three Pieces, r.elt a little Butter, put-: 
in a little Vinegar and Salt, let your Eel lay in two or three.- 
Minutes, then take the Pieces up one by one, turn them,- 
round with a fmall Skev/er, roll them in Crumbs of Bread, 
and broil them of a fine Brown ; let your Sauce be plain 
Butter, with the Juice of a Lemon, 

for Collared Eel, fee among the "Receipts for Collaring^ 

To ftenv Tench. 

CU T them in Pieces, and fry them in browned Butter, 
then fet them 'to ftew in the fame Butter with White. 
Wine, Verjuice, Salt, Pepper, Nutmeg, a Bunch of fweet 
Herbs, a Bay-leaf or two, and a little Flour. Vv'hen the 
Filh is Hewed enough, put in fom.e Capers and Oyflers, with 
the Juice of Mulhfooms and Lemon : Garnifli the Didi witii. 
fried Bread. 

To farce Tench. 

TA K E off the Slime, and fiit the Skin along the Bacle. 
^ of your Tenchs and with the Point of yonr Knif- 
raife it up from the Bone ; then cut the Skin crofs-ways e: 
tlie Tail and He.id, and firip it oft'; then take out the Bone 
Tjvs cone, bone .a Tench or a Carp 3 put to the Fleili of i 



i| 



8S ^he Lady*s Companion. 

fome Mufhrooms, a little Parlley, and fome Gives ; feafonit 
with Salt, Pepper, fweet Spices, and a very little fweet 
Herbs, then having minced it all well together, pound it ia 
a Mortar, put to it a Piece of Butter, the Yolks of three of 
four Eggs, the Bignefs of a Couple of Eggs of the Crumb 
of Bread foaked in Cream, and pound it all well together ;• 
then farce your Tenches with it, and few them up : Set a 
Pan over the Stove with fome clarified Butter, and when it 
is hot fry the Tenches in it, one by one, till they are brown, 
and then take them up ; melt the Bignefs of two Eggs of 
Butter, in a Sauce-pan, then put to it a little Flour, and keep 
moving it till it is brown, moiften it with a little Fifh-Eroth, 
and a little White Wine boiling hot, lay your Tenches into 
this Brown, adding a Seafoning of Salt, Pepper, a Bunch of 
fweet Herbs, an Cnion lluck with Cloves ; fo keep them 
iimmering in it over a gentle Fire^ when they are enough^ 
lay them in a Difh, poui* on them a Ragoo of Milts, and 
ferve them. 

At other Times they may be ferved with a Ragoo of Craw- 
iiih or Oyfters. 

You may likewife broil thefe farced Tenches, rubbing 
them firft over with melted Butter and Salt ; and when they 
are broiled of a fine brown Colour, ferve them with a Ragoo 
of Trufiles or Mulhrooms. 

Boiled Tench. 

GE T Tench frelh from the Pond, gut them, and clear 
them from their Scales, then put them into a Stew- 
pan, with as much Water as will cover them, fome Salt^ 
Pepper whole, fome Lemon -peel, a Stick of Horfe-radifh, 
a Bunch of fweet Herbs, and a few Cloves ; then boil them 
till they are tender; and when they are enough, take fome 
of the Liquor, and put to it a Glafs of White Wine, and a 
little Lemon juice or V rjuice, and an Anchovy ihred ; then 
boil it a few Minutes, and thicken it with Butter, rubbed in 
Flour, tofling up a Pint of Shrimps with the Sauce ; and 
pour it over the Filh ; ierve it with Garnilh of fry d Bread, 
cut the Length of one's Finger, fome Slices of Lemon and 
Horfe-radiih fcraped, with fome pickled Mufhrooms, if you 
will; or you may tofs fome of them in the Sauce. 



The L A D y's Com p ANiONT. ?s^ 

To bake Tench. . 

TAKE your Tench frefh from the Pond, gut them, 
and clean them from the Scales, then kill them, by 
giving them a hard Stroke on the Back of the Head, or elfe 
they will live many Hours, and even jump out of the Pan into 
the Oven, when they are half enough ; then lay them in a 
Pan, with Tome Mulhrooms, Catchup, fome llrong Gravy, 
half a Pint of pickled Mulhrooms, as much White Wine as 
Gravy; three or four large Shaiots, an Anchovy or- two,, 
two or three Slices of fat Bacon, fome Pepper, C'oves, and 
Nutmeg, at Pleafure, a little Salt, fome Lemon-peel, and a 
Bunch of fweet Herbs ; then break fome Bits of Butter, and 
lay them on your Filh, then cover all as clofe as you can^ 
and give them an Hour's baking. 

When they are enough, lay them in a hot Difh, and 
pour off the Liquor, and ilrain it, only preferving the Muih- 
rooms ; then add to it a Spoonful of Lemon-juice, and thicken 
your Sauce with the Yolks of four Eggs, beaten with Cream, 
and mixM, by Degrees, with the Sauce ; pour this over your 
Filh, and ferve it hot, with a Garnifh of Beat-roots fliced, 
fome Slices of Lemon-peel, and fome Horfe-radilh fcraped. 

Another Way to bake Tenches. 

GE T your Tenches, prepare and farce them as above 5 
then rub a Pafty-pan with Butter, over which lay a 
Seafoning of Salt, Pepper, fweet Herbs, and Spices, an 
Onion cut in-Slices, fome whole Cives, and a little minced 
Parfley, then lay in your Tenches ; lay fome of the fame 
Seafoning over them, fprinkle them with melted Butter, 
drudge them with very fine Crumbs of Bread, and bake 
tiiem in an Oven : We ferve them with Ragoos of all Sorts 
of Legumes, which mull be laid under them, or with a Cul. 
lisofCrawfilh, or with Anchovy Sauce, and fometimes diy. 

To roajl Tench. 

ITAVING cleans'd it well from the Slime, make a 
"1 little Hole as near the Gills as you can, take out the 
Guts, and cleanfe the Throat, Huff the Belly of the Filh 
with fweet Herbs ; then tie the Filh to the Spit with two or 
three Splinters, and roaft it ; mix Butter with. Vinegar or 
Verjuice, and Salt, and bafte it often. 



2i» 



90 ^be L A D Y 'S C M P A N 1 O NT. 

To fry Tench. 

SLiT your Tenches down the Back, drudg« them with 
Flour and Salt ; or you may cut them in Pieces, and hy 
them with Muftirooms, Truffles, Artichoak Bottoms, and 
fweet Herbs ; make a S.iuce of Mulhrooms, TrufHes, An- 
chovies, Capers^ all chopped fmall and well ftew'd, and 
foaked in Broth ; fqueeze in the Juice of an Orange or Le- 
mon, and add fome Filh Cullis j ferve it up, and garnilh with. 
Variety of Pickles. 

Another Way. 

LE T your Water boil ; then put in your FIfh, and ftir 
them about in it ; take them out, rub off the Slime, 
dry them well in a Cloth, flit them down the Back, drudge 
them with Flour and Salt, fry them brown, and ferve themr 
up dry with fry'd Parfley. 

fo foufe Tench, 

DRAW your Tench at the Gills,, and cut them ofiV 
which will make them boil the whiter j feafon tha 
Water with Vinegar, Salt, Bay-leaves, Faggots of fweet 
Herbs, whole Cloves, and Mace ; wipe off the Slime, but 
do not fcale them ; and when they are boiled, wafh off the 
loofe Scales, (train the Liquor through a Jelly-Bag, and put 
fome Ifmglafs into it that has been walh'd and fteeped, and^ 
boil i: ; lay your Fifli in the Dilh, flrain the Liquor through 
the Bag into the Difli ; let it Hand till it is cold, and ferve 
it. 

This Jelly will ferve to jelly Lobfters, Prawns, or Craw- 
filh ; hanging tliem in fome Glafs by a Thread at their full 
length, and filling the Glaf^ with the Jelly while it is warm, 
and turning it out of the Glafs v;heji it is cold. 

Tenches nx'^th Fillets marinated. 

YOUR Tenches being fcraped very white, gut themj 
cut off the Heads, and fplit them in two, which, cub 
in Slices, muft be placed in a Dilh ; feafon them with Salt, 
Pepper, whole green Onions, Parfley, an Onion cut in 
Slices, a Bay leaf, a little fweet Bafil, fome Cloves, and a- 
little Vinegar ; ftir all well together, and let them marinate 
about two Hours ; this done, take out the Fillets, wipe 
Sihem between two Towels, fcour them, and fry them in 
drawn Butter ; being well coloured, take them out, dilh 

them. 



7he Lad y's Companion. 9:1 

them up handfomely, with fry'd Pariley, and ferve them. 
up hot. 

Tff fteifj Barbels. 

HAVING fcaied and drawn your Barbels, put them, 
into a Stew-pan, with Wine, frefh Butter, Salt, Pep- 
per, and a Bunch of fweet Herbs. When they are ready, 
knead a Bit of Butter with a little Flour, and pa: it in to 
thicken the Sauce ; fo ferve them. 

Others drefs them as above, excepting the Putter, of 
which they ufe none : But when the Barbels are iievved, then 
ferve them up with a Ragoo made of Mufnrooms, TrufHes,. 
Morels, Artichoak Bottoi;ns, Salt, Pepper, freih Butter, Broth, 
made of Fiih, or Juice of Onions. 

^0 bioil Barbels. 

AFTER they are fcaied and diawn, make fmall Inci- 
fions in the Sides of them ; then rub them with melt- 
ed Butter, and drew them oer with pounded Salt : This 
done, lay them, on the Gridiron, and when they are broiled, 
make your Sauce with fr>efli' Butter, Salt, Pepper, Nutmegs 
Anchovies, Capers, Gives Ihred fmall, with a little Fiour 
to thicken it ; put to it likewife a Drop of Water, and as 
much Vinegar, Ihaking it continually till it is thickened, 
and then pour it on your Fifli : Otherwife you may ufe the 
f^me Sauce as for a roafted Pike, 

Let your Garniture be fried Mufhrooms, with Roes of 
Carps, and Slices of Lemon, or larded Sweetbreads. 

To dre/s Barbels au Court Bouillon. 

IT is generally the largefl Fifh that is dreffed in this Man- 
ner : Take, therefore, a large Barbel, and draw it, but 
do not fcale it ; lay it on a Dilh, and throw on it Vine- 
gar and Salt fcalding hot ; then fet your Fiih over the Fire 
with White Wine, \'erjuice. Salt, Pepper. Cloves, Nut- 
meg, Bay-leaves, Onions, Lemon or Orange-peel ; when 
it boils very fail: put in your Barbel, and when it is boiled, 
take it up, and ferve it dry upon a clean Napkin, infiead of 
a Diih of RoaA-meat. Let your Garniture be Parfiey, or 
Garden -Crefies, 



7a. 



5>2 ^he Lady's Compani on. 

To hofo Barbels. 

BONE them, and halli the Flefh; put it into a Sauce- 
pan, and dry it over the Fire till it is grown white ; 
then mix it with Mufhrooms, Truffles, Gives, and Parfley 
cut very fmall ; brown fome freili Butter in a Sauce-pan with 
a little Flour, and put in the Hafli ; let it have two or three 
Turns ; ieafon it with Salt, Pepper, and a Slice or two of 
Lemon ; moiften it with fome Fifli Broth, and three or four 
Spoonfuls of Crawfiili Cullis, or of other Filli, to thicken it> 
and ferve it hot for a firil Courfe. 

Barbels larded and gla%ed. 

PU T your Barbels in boiling Water, flir them a little^ 
but take them up prefently again \ fcrape them flightly, 
let them be very white, and well cleaned, and leave the 
Liver untouched, that being the molt delicious Bit in the 
Fifh ; wipe them dry, and lard them with fine Bacon ; fet 
a Stew-pan over a lighted Stove, with a Bottle of White 
Wine, Onions cut in Slices, fweet Bafil, Slices of Lemon, 
Pepper, Salt, and Cloves ; as foon as the Wine boils, put 
in your Filh two by two ; after fome Boils, take them out, 
and put in fome more to make them ftiff ; put a clean Stew- 
pan over the Fire, big enough to hold all your Fiih, put a 
Couple of Pounds of Veal into it, with fome Ham cut into 
fmall Pieces, with an Onion or two, and moiften them with 
Broth, or Water ; when the Veal is almofl done, put in your 
Fiih, let them boil gently, let them not be too much done, 
and take them out dexteroufly, to keep them from breaking. 
Now put your Broth over the Fire again, and when ftewed 
to a Jelly, put in your Fifh, the larded Side downwards, and 
let them glaze over a gentle Fire, being ready to ferve up, 
put an Effence of Ham, or an Italian Sauce in your Difh, 
with your Fifh over it. 

If your Fifh be not glazed enough, put them on again,, 
fhaking the Pan now and then, and do not leave them till 
done i dilh them, and ferve them up hot. 

To boil Mullets. 

YOU muft boil the Fiih, but lay by the Roes and" 
Livers ; when the Fiih is boiled, pour away Part of 
the Water, and put into the reit a Pint of Claret, fome 
Salt and Vinegar, and two fliced Onions, with a Bundle of 
! j Winter Savoury, Marjoram, and Thyme, iliced Nutmeg, 
ff broken 



^he L A D y's C O M P A N I N.' 9^^ 

broken Mace, and the Juice of a Lemon : Boil all thefe 
well together, then put in the Fifh, and when you judge that 
it taftes ilrong of the Ingredients, put in three or four An- 
chovies, and ferve it up with ftewed OyfterS;, or Shrimps, 

To broil Mullets. 

SCALE and gut them, and cut Gafhes in the Side of 
them ; dip them in melted Butter, and broil them ; 
make a Sauce with clarified Butter, fried Flour, Capers, 
Slices of Lemon, a Faggot of Herbs, Pepper, Salt, Nutmeg, 
Verjuice, or Juice of Orange. 

To fry Mullets. 

AFTER you have prepared tbem as above, fry them 
in clarifed Butter ; let your Sauce be fomc of the 
fame Butter in which tJiey Vv'ere fried, with Anchovies, 
Capers, Juice of Orange, and Nutmeg j rub the Difli with 
a Shalot, or a Clove of Garlick. 

You may likewile put them in a Pye, as you do feveral 
other Fiili. 

To marinate a Mullet. 

YO U mufl to a Quart of Water take a Gallon of Mne- 
gar, a good Handful of Bay-leaves, as much Rofe- 
Riary, a Quarter of a Pound of beaten Pepper ; put all thefe 
together, and let them boil foftly, and feafon it with a little 
Salt, then fry your Filh with frying Oil, till it is enough, 
and afterwards put it into an earthen VefTel, and lay the 
Bay-leaves and Rofemary between and about the Filh, and 
pour the Broth upon it; and when it is cold, cover it up to 
keep till yoa want it. 

To drefs a Pike the German Way, 

GU T your Pike, and wafh it very clean ; then fplit it 
.in two Parts clofe by the Bone, and half boil it in 
Water ; then take it out and fcale it till it becomes very 
white ; then put it into a Stew-pan, with White Wine, Ca- 
pers, Anchovies, Muihrooms, Thyme, and fweet Herbs 
chopp'd very fmall, and alfo fou e Truffles and Morels ; let 
thefe all ftew together gently, that the Fifh may not break ; 
then put in a good Piece of Butter, and a little Cheefe grated ^ 
when the Sauce is grown thick, dilh it handfomely, garniih 
it with what yoa pleafe, and ferve it hot. 

Pike 



94 ^^^ Lady's Companion. 

Pike au S^immier. 

TA K E a Pike, gut, wafli, and dry it ; then make a 
good deal of Force- Fifh with Eel, Whiting, Anchovy> 
"Sevvet, Pepper, Salt, and crumbed Bread, alio Yolks of 
Eggs, Thyme, and Parfiey, and a Bit of Shalot ; then fill 
the Belly full of this Forcing, and draw with a Pack-Needle, 
feme Packthread through the Eyes, the Middle and Tail, in 
the Shape of an 5 ; then wafh it over with Butter and Egg, 
and crumb it over with Bread : You may bake it, or roaft it 
with t Caul over it, and fauce it with Capers and Butter the 
Trench Way. 

Another V/ay to drefs a Pike. 

YO U may roafl it with a good Forcing in the Belly, 
with Oyllers, Liver, Sewet, Crumbs of Bread,Thyme, 
Parfiey, and Eggs, Ancho-.ies, and a Shalot ; fill the Belly, 
and either bake or roail: it -, fauce it with Oyiler-Sauce ; the 
French W^ay is with Caper- Sauce, and you may boil it with 
Anchovy- Sauce, or fry it in -Slices ; and ferve it with plain 
Butter, or fried Parfiey. 

"lo f.ufe a Pike. 

AFTER having put your Fike into as much Water as 
will cover it, with a Handful of Bay leaves, fome 
Cloves and Mace, let it boil till it is fo tender that a Straw 
may be run thro' it ; then take it up, and put it in Liquor, 
White Wine and Vinegar, with an Anchovy : When your 
Pike is cold, fiip it into the Pickle, which will turn to a 
Jelly, and keep for a cenfiderable Time. 

T^o drefs a Pike <voiih Oyfters^ 

SCALE and gut it, walh it clear, cut it in Pieces, and 
put them in a Stev/-pan, with White Wine, Parfiey, 
Cives, Mufiirooms, and TruiHes, all of them hafhed toge- 
ther, with Salt, Pepper, and Butter, and fet over a Stove to 
ftew ; blanch fome Oy iters in Water, and a little Verjuice ; 
then throw them, with their own Liquor, into the Stew- 
pan, but not till the Pike is near enough ; when done, ferve 
it, garnilhing your Dilh with fiiced Lemon. 



T 



n?^ L A D Y 'S C O M P A N I N. 95 

To farce a Pike. 

' A K K a Pike, draw, fcale, and take out the Bone by 
^ the Back, fo that the Head and Tail may be left 
hanging by the Skin ; then mince the FJefh with a Piece of 
Carp or Eel, Muflirooms, Cives, and Parfley ; feafon all with 
Salt, Pepper, and Nutmeg ; then add a Clove, and half a 
Dozen Coriander Seeds bruifed ; put Butter to it, and pound 
all together, with Crumb of Bread, fimmering over the Fire 
in Cream, and the Yolks of two raw Eggs ; thefe being all 
mixed together, fluff your Pike v/ith this Farce, few it up, 
and lay it in a Stew-pan at its full Length ; put fome Butter 
and Flour into a Sauce-pan, and biown it; then put in fome 
White Wine and Filli-Broth, of each a like Quantity, pour 
this into your Stew-pan to the Pike ; feafon with Salt, Pep- 
per, Cloves, fweet Herbs, Parfley, and Onions ; let your 
Pike only fimmer, leil it break. Iv,. the mean Time, pre- 
pare a Ragoo of the Tails of Crawfifh, Mufhro.ms, the Tops 
of Afparagus, if in Seafon, tofs thefe up in a little frelh 
Butter, add to them a little Fifn-Broth to moiflen it, and a 
little Crawiifh, or other good Cullis, to thicken it : When 
jour Pike is enough, take it up, lay it in a Dilli to drain, 
then diih it in another Difh, pour the Ragoo upon it, and 
ferve it up to Table hot. 

Take Notice, that if you ufe the Tops of Afparagus, they 
mufl be firfl blanch'd, and not put into the Ragoo, till you 
arc juft going to ferve it up, or elfe they will be too much 
done. 

To hoil a Pike. 

CLEANSE and trufs your Pike in a round Ring, 
fcotch i: on the Back, fet it on the Fire in a Stew-pan, 
with as much Water and White Wine as will cover it ; make 
the Liquor boil, then put in your Filh, and boil it with a 
quick Fire : For the Sauce, mince the Liver of the Pike, 
feafon it with Pepper and Mace, put to it Oyllers or Cockles 
boil'd or fry'd, and fweet Herbs flaied fine, fcrape in fome 
Horfe-radifh, and boil them m White Wine Vinegar : When 
your Pike and Sauce is rtady, beat up the Sauce with a i'iece 
of Butter and minced Lemon ; difli your Pike on Sippets ; 
pour in your Sauce : Garnilh with Slices of Orange or Le- 
mon, and ferve it up. 



Another 



95 



The L A D y's Companion, 



Another Way, 

TAKE a Male Pike, rub tlie Skin off with Bay -fait 
while it is alive ; cleanfe it well both Infide and Out- 
■fide ; fet on a Kettle with White Wine, Salt, whole Pepper, 
<jinger, Nutmeg, Mace, four or f.ve Cloves of Garlick, or 
an Onion, and a Bunch of fweet Herbs : Make your Li- 
quor boil to the Height, then put in your Pike, boil it up 
-quick ; it will be enough in half an Hour. For the Sauce, 
take half a Pini of Canary, beat in it a Crab, Part of a 
Lobiler, or Shrimps, put to it two Spoonfuls of the Liquor 
the Pike is boiled in, and a Pound of drawn Butter ; fet 
this Sauce over a Stove, and keep it ilirring all the while 
till it be thick : Take up yonr Pike, difh it upon Sippets 
dipp'd in the Broth, and pour your Sauce over it, and ferv© 
it up. 

7o boil a Pike the French Fajhion. 

TA K E a Pike, cut it in three Pieces, boil it in Wine 
and Water, an equal Quantity of each, and a little 
Lemon-psel : When the Liquor boils, put in the Pike, with 
a good PLindful of Salt ; then, having prepared a Sauce of 
beaten Butter, Water, two or three Lemons in Slices, the 
Yolks of two or three Eggs, and fome grated Nutmeg, difli 
your Pike on Sippets, and llick it with fome fry'd Bread j 
run the Sauce over it : Garnilh with fome Barberries, or Le- 
mon, and fiiced Ginger. 

7o drefs a Pike a Cabilo, the Dutch Way. 

TA K E a large Pike, fcale it, gut it, wafh it clean, 
and cut off the Head ; then cut it in Slices about an 
Inch thick, endeavour to cut it in the Joints,: When you 
come toward the Tail, cut through the Bone, and leave the 
Fifn whole on the I.Tnder-fide, fo that it may hang together; 
then put it into a Pan of cold Water ; fet on good Store of 
Water, feafon it pretty high with Salt ; when it boils up, 
pour in a Quarter of a Pint of Vinegar, fkim it well, divide 
the Head in two, and put that and the Tail in the boiling 
Water about five or {\y. Minutes before you put in your Slices, 
take the Gaul from the Milt, and put the Milt inalfo : When 
they have boiled about a Quarter of : <n Hour, take them up, 
and drain them, lay the Head and Tail in the Middle of the 
Dilh, and the Slices round with fome Sippets under : For the 
Sauce, the Hollanders ufe only oiled Butter melted gently 

over 



The L A D y's C O M P A N I O N. 97 

over the Fire, ftirred about with a Ladle, and poured over 
the Fifh : But you may ufe drawn Batter. A Pound of But- 
ter, with a Spoonful of Water drawn up, will be as thick as 
Cream : Squeeze in a Lemon, and ferve it up hot, 

To drcfs a Pike in Cafierole. 

AFTER having fcaled your Pike, lard it with the 
Fleih of an Eel ; then put it into a Stew-pan with 
White Wine, burnt Butter, Verjuice, Salt, Pepper, Nutmeg, 
Cloves, a Bay-leaf, or a Lemon, and a Faggot of fwcec 
Herbs : Let them Hew over a gentle Fire : In the mean 
Time prepare a Ragoo of iVIufhrooms, Oyflers, Capers, fome 
of the Liquor wherein they are Hewed, and fome Flour. 
When all is enough, difh your Fifh, pour your Ragoo over 
it: Garnilh with fry'd Mulhrooras, Carps Roes, and Slices 
of Lemon, and ferve it up hot. 

To fry a Pike ;;/ Fillets. 

GU T and fcale your Pike, cut it into Slices or Fillet5, 
put them into a Marinade of Verjuice, Salt, Pepper, 
the Juice of Lemon, Cives, Bay-leaves, but not abov^e half 
an Hour ; then dip them in a thin Palle or Batter, and fry 
them, difh them ; garniih with Slices of Lemon, and Parfley, 
and ferve them up : Or you may put them into white Sauce, 
which is made of the Crumb of Bread pounded, and ftrained 
through a Sieve, after it has had two or three Walms in a 
Stew-pan with a little Broth, or a Cullis of Fifh ; when you 
ferve it up, fijoeeze in fome Juice of Lemon. 

To marinate a Pike. 

MAKE a Marinade as mentioned in the laft Receipt; 
Gut and fcale your Pike, then lay it in this Mari- 
nade for two Hours ; take it out, drudge it with Flour, and 
fry it, or you may bake it in a Patty-pan j then dip it m 
melted Butter, drudge it with Bread grated fine, and fifted 
through a Sieve, and Salt, bake it brown, and ferve it up 
with Sauce made of clarified Butter, the Juice of an Orange, 
Salt, Pepper, and Anchovies, melted, and ftrained through a 
Sieve : Garnifh with the Milts of Carps, or Livers of Pike* 
fry'd, and fry'd Parley, and ferve it up hot. 



Vol. I. F iF^ 



9? ^he Lady's Companion. 

% fry a Pike. 

WHEN you have ckanfed your Pike well from the 
Slime and Blood, dry it, flour it, and roll it round, 
or elle you may flit it, put it in your Pan, fry it in frefli 
Butter crifp ; then riake your Sauce of Butter, beaten up 
with the Liquor of Oyfters, White Wine and Nutmeg. Gar- 
nifli with fry'd Parfley, and Slices of Orange and Lemon. 

Another Way. 

OPEN your Pike by the Belly, and fcore it with a 
Knife ; lay it to marinate in Vinegar, Salt, Pepper, 
Cives, and a Bay-leaf; drudge it well with Flour before you 
Iry it, and let your Sauce be Anchovies melted in oiled 
Butter, ftrain it through a Sieve ; add the Juice of an Orange, 
fome Capers, and white Pepper. 

To drefs Pikes a la Saint Rot art. 

GUT, fcale, and flit your Pii^es, divide each into Pieces, 
fcore them, then lay them for an Hour in a Marinade? 
of Vinegar, Sak, Pepper, f\\eet Eafil, Bar-leaves, Slices 
of Onions and Lemon ; then tak.e them out, dry them with 
a Linen Cloth, flour and fj'y , them in Butter j make your 
Sauce Robatt in the follov/ing Manner : Set a Sauce-pan over 
;>. Stove wirh a gQcd Quantity of Butter ; put into it fome 
Orions cut m Slices, fry them brown, moiiien them with 
<;;ood Fifli-Broth \ lee them ilew iii it for fome Time ; v.hen 
they are ftewed enough^ ftiim off the Fat, and thicken the 
Liuuor with a Cullis. Lay your Pikes into this Sauce; let 
them fimmer in it a little while ; then difli your Pikes, and 
fer the Difh over a Stove, piit in a little Mufl:ard, and a Drop 
if V inegar, pour yoar Sauce on ycur Pikes, and fcrve them" 
iip'hot. 

'Jo fte -v a Pike rhe French JVg\. 

YOUR Pike being gutted, and fplit dovvn the Back, 
let the Liquor be Water and Salt, and boil before you 
puc it in ; then take a Stew-pan, put into it as much Claret 
c<i will cover the Pike, take your Pike cut of the Water, 
cleanfe it from the Blood, put it into the Wine in the Stew- 
pan, add three or four Onions fliced, Salt, grofs Pepper, and 
three or four Blades of Aiace ; then put in the Pike; when 
it boils up, cover your Stew-pan ; when it is enough, difli it 
\vi;h Sippeti lound about, pour all your Broth, Spice, ^c, 

©Yfr 



the L A D y's C O M P A N I O N, 99 

aver it : GarniHi it with Slices of Lemon and Lemon-peeU 
run it over with beaten Butter. Garnifh the Diih with dry 
grated Manchet, and ferve it up hot. 

7o Jle'iv Pike another Way. 

CLEAN well your Pike, and lard it witli fmall Lar- 
doons, then flew it in clarified Butter, Vinegar, Salt, 
Pepper, Nutmeg, and a Bunch of fweet Herbs, fome Mar- 
joram, and fliced Lemon ; make a Ragoo of Mulhrooms, tofs 
them up in Butter moillened with Fiih-Broth ; thicken your 
Sauce with fome Flour, or Cullis, and when you dilh up 
pour it upon your Pike. 

To ronjf a Pike. 

GE T a large Pike, gut it, and clean it, and lard it with 
Eel and Bacon, as you lard a Fowl ; then take Thymsi 
and Savoury, Salt, Mace, and Nutmeg, fome Crumbs of 
Bread, Beef-fewet, and Pariley j fhred all very fine, and mix 
it up with raw Eggs ; make it in a long Pudding, and put 
"it in the Belly of your Pike, flcevver up the Belly, and dif- 
folve Anchovies in Butter, and bade with it ; put two Splints 
on each Side the Pike, and tie it to the Spit ; melt Butter 
tliick for the Sauce, or, if you pleafe, Cyder Sauce, and 
bruife the Pudding in it. Garniih with Lemon. 

Another Way to ronjl a Pike. 

SCALE your Pike, and flafli it from Head to Tail, and 
lard ic with Lardoons of Eel, rolPd in fweet Herbs and 
Spice ; fill it with Forced-Meat of Filh ; roaft it at Length, 
bafte and bread it ; or you may turn its Tail into its Mouth, 
and brown it oiF in the Oven ; let the Sauce be drawn But- 
ter, Anchovies, the Roe and Liver with Balls, MulTirooms, 
Capers, and Oyilers. Garniih with fliced Lemon. 

Another Way. 

CLEAN, fcrape, and gut your Pike, lard the Back vyith 
pickled Herring ; take Claret and large Oyflers ; i^z- 
fon your Oyfters with Pepper and Nutmeg ; mix them with 
fome Slices of Onion, Winter Savoury and Thyme, and hll 
the Belly of your Pike with them ; few up its Belly, and 
bolfter up its Sides with two flat Sticks, about the Breadth of 
a Lath ; lay it down to the Fire, tie Rofemary and Bays Iq, 
keep off the Heat from coming too much to it, where it is 
not defended by the Laths, from fcorching ; baile it with 

^ i, Butter 



i oo fbe L A D y's C m p a n I ^^ 

gutter beat up with Claret ; when it is«i-oailed enough, ta'kc 
it up, take the StufBng out of the Belly, and make a Sauce 
of th&t and its own Dripping, feme beaten Butter, and Cla- 
ret ; and having diihed it, lerve it up hot. 

Another Way. 

TA KE a large Pike, draw, wafli, and clean it ; then 
take a Pint of C^yflers or Shrimps, three or four An- 
chovies, an Onion or Shalot, Nutmeg, Cloves, and Mac-e, 
with a little Parfiey, Ihred thefe very fmall, and mix it with 
Butter ; with this lluiT the Belly of the Pi;:e, and ftrcw fome 
of it -uj-ron -the Cutfu'e of it ; then fallen your Pike on the 
Spit, and bafte it either v,ith Butter or Claret, fome of the 
Liquor of your Oyfiers, Butter, Anchovy, Spice, and Vine- 
gar, with a little Flour to thicken it. 

Another yfay 

AFTER cleaning your Fifh well, feafcn it with Salt, 
Pepper, Cloves, Mace, and fome fweet Herbs, rub it 
very well with the Seafoning, then roll it in a Caul of .a 
Brcaft of Veal, and tie it to the Spit, and when it is half 
■roaiied take off the Caul, drudge it with Bread fnely grated, 
then bafte and flour it : When of a fine yeliov^ Colour, diHi 
it xip ; and garniih vvith rafped Lemon and Flowers. 

To hcjfj a Pike. 

WEI E N you have cleans'd your Pike, bone it, fcale 
it, then mince the Flefh with an Eel and fweet 
Fierbs ; feafon with Salt, Pepper, Nutmeg, and Mace beaten ; 
}Ut it into a Di(h with White Wine, and let it Hew ; when 
it is enough, ftir in a Piece of Butter : In the mean Time, 
take large ilewM Oyfters, and fry them in Batter, fome green 
with Spinach, others yellow with Saffron : When your Meat 
is fcew'd enough, difh it on Sippets : Garnifli with Oyfiers, 
..and ferve it up hot. 

To drefs a Pike at//^ a ^^vhite Sauce. 

WHEN you have gutted, fcaled, and cleansed your 
Pike, boil it iji Wine and Water, of each a like 
(>uantitv, put in Salt, Pepper, and a Bunch of favour/ 
'Herbs ; melt Butter in a Sauce-pan with a little Flour, Salt, 
Pepper, Nutmeg, a Slice or two of Lemon, three or four 
vvhole Cives, a Couple of Anchovies, a little Water, and a 
Drop or two of Vinegar ; Give this Sauce a Turn or two 



The L A D Y 's C O .AJ P A N I O N. lOt 

9ver a Stove till it is thickened ; difn your Pike, pour it over 
it, and ferve it up. 

To drefs a Pike au Court-BsuiHon. 

HA V I N G cleans'd your Pike, lay it in a: Pan, either 
whole or cut into Quarters, Iprinkle over it boiling. 
hot Vinegar, with Salt in it : When it has lain fome Time, 
take it out, and fealbn it with Salt, Pepper, Cloves, fweet 
Herb^, Onions, and a Bay-leaf; put a good Lump of Butter 
in the Belly of it, wrap it up in a Napkin ; then put into a 
a Stew-pan fome White Wine, \''erjuice. Salt, Pepper, Onions, 
and Lemon fliced. Nutmeg, Cloves, and a Eay-leaf, make 
thefe boil very fail, then put in your Pike ; when it is boiPd 
enough, ferve it on a clean Napkin, garnifh'd with Parfley, 
for a iiril Courfe. 

To broil a Pike. 

SPLIT your Pike, and fcotch it with your Knife on the 
Outfides, feafon it with Salt, lay the Gridiron on a cl^ar 
Fire, make it very hot, lay on your Pike, bafte it with But- 
ter, turn it often ; and when it is broiPd iliff and crifp, difh' 
it, and ferve it up with beaten Butter, and the Juice of Le- 
moris, or Wine Vinegar, g arnifh'd with Slices of Oranges or 
iLemons. 

To fry a Jack, 

SCRAPE, gut, and cleanfe your Jack, \^ipe it, flour it,- 
and fry it brown and crifp in Butter ; then take it out of 
the Frying-pan, fet it before the Fire in a Difli i pour off 
the Butter it was fry'd in i then fry a good Quantity o^ Sage- 
and Pariley crijp in other Butter, lay them on the Filh : In- 
the mean Time let fome Butter be beat up with three or four 
Spoonfuls of hot Water, in which an Anchovy has been dif- 
folv^ed ; pour this on your Filli : Garnilh with Strawberry- - 
leaves and Pariley, and ferve it up. 

To crimp Scate. 

IT mull be cut into long Slips crofs-ways, the Flefh into^' 
ten Pieces, Inch broad, ten long, more or lefs, according, 
to the Breadth of your Fifh ; then boil it off quick in Water 
and Salt, and fend it dry on a Difh turn'd upfide down in 
another, and ferve Butter' an d Mullard in one Cup, and But- 
ter and Anchovy in another. 

F 3. Scate,' 



102 f/^(f La D y's Com p A N ION. 

Scate, or Thornback, the Dutch or Englifh IVay. 

HAVING fklnned them on both Sides, cut the tw& 
Sides from the Body, and each Side down through the 
Middle ; then lay each half crofs-ways, and cut it in Slices 
half an Inch thick. When you come up towards the thick 
Part, cut it thinner ; throw it in cold Water with the Liver, 
an Hour or two before you boil it. If your Fifn is freih, it 
will make it curdle and turn crimp ; then boil it in a Brafs 
Difh, with frelh Water, Salt, and Vinegar ; fkim it well in 
the Boiling ; put your Liver a boiling two or three Minutes 
before you put in your cut Fifh, which will be boiled in a 
Quarter of an Hour ; take up your Slices carefully, that you 
break them not ; for they will be turned round like a Hoop, 
and very tender; drain them well, -- ^^ flip them into your 
Difli, with fome Sippets under them ; Kit your Sauce be a 
Pound of Butter, a Spoonful of Vinegar, tv/o Spoonfuls of 
V/ater, a little Dull of Flour, the Yolks of tv/o Eggs, 
fome fcraped Nutmeg, a little beaten Pepper, and minced 
Anchovy ; draw this up together to the Thicknefs of a 
Cream ; then put in a good Spoonful of Muftard and half a 
Lemon j pour it hot over your Fifn, and lay the Liver upon 
it; let your Garnilhing be a little picked Parfley, clean 
waflied ; fo ferve it up. 

This Sauce is proper for boiled Smelts or Sparlings, or for 
boiled frefti Herrings. 

- Scate, or Thornback, au Court-Bouillon. 

WA S H it clean, and gut it, then boil it in Water with 
Vinegar, Salt, Pepper, Cloves, and favoury Herbs ; 
when It is almoit boiled, throw in the Liver to boil in a Mo- 
ment, then take the Fifh off the Fire, and let it Hand in its 
own Liquor : When it is almoU cold take it up, fein it, and 
pick out the Thorns ; having cleaned it well, lay it in a Difh, 
and ferve it with a brown Sauce, made of oiled Butter and 
Parfley tofiTed up in it, with a Drop of Vinegar. 

Scate, njuith Anchcvy Sauce. 

TH E Scate being boiled, as in the foregoing Receipt, 
let it ftand to cool, then Ikin it, and take out the 
Thorns in like Manner ; lay it handfomely in the Diih you 
intend to ferve it in, and fet it over a Chafing-difli of Coals ; 
mean while prepare the following Sauce ; put into a Sauce- 
pan fome frefli Batter and a Pinch of Flour ; feafoh it with 
^ ' Salt^ 



ne Lady's Companion. ig^ 

Salt, Pepper and Nutmeg, moiften it with a little Vinegar and 
Water ; wafh a Couple of Anchovies, mince them, and put 
them into the Sauce, and turn it over the Stove ; when the 
Sauce is thickened, pour it on your Scate, and ferve it up 
hot for the firlt Courfe. . . ^ 

At another Time you rnny ferve it with Capers in White 
Sauce, or with a Crawfifh Cullis in White Sauce likewile, 
and pour it on your Fifh. 

To fry Scate ^vito a hroi.vn Sauce, 

YOUR Scate being gutted, cut it in two in theMiddle. 
and blanch it in fcalding Water, take oft the Skin and 
the Thorns, and fet it a cooling ; then drudge it with Flour, 
and fry it in clarified Butter ; when it is fried, take it up, 
drain it, and put it into a Sauce-pan : Make a brown Sauce 
as follows : Ivlir.ce fonie Cives and Parfiey ; fet a Sauce -pan 
over a Stove, with a Lump of frefli Butter, and melt it ; 
then put in a little Flour and brown it: when it is brov/ned, 
put in the Cives and Parfiey, together with Fiih-Eroth, or 
Juice of Onions ; feafon it with Salt and Pepp'er; let it fim- 
mer a-while, then put it into the Saunce-pan to your Scate, 
with fome minced Capers, and let it all iimmer together ; 
take up your Scate, and having laid it in a Difh, bind up your 
Sauce with a Crawfiih or other good Cullis, pour it on your 
Scate and ferve it. 

At another Time the Scate being fried, and having fxm- 
mered in the brown Sauce, as above, it may be ferved witlp 
pouring on a Ragoo of Crawffli, or of Pvliits, or Ivlafcles. 

Flounder 3 ^-ith Sorrel. 

TAKE Flounders, gut, and cleanfe them well, theni 
flafh them crofs-ways three Cuts only on cne Side, 
and lay them in your Sauce-pan \ put in as much Water as 
will jull cover them, v/ith a little Vinegar, Salt, and one 
Onion, boil them quick, then boil four Handfuls of Sorrel, 
pick'd ofFthe Stalks, and chop it very fmall, and put about 
half a Pound of melted Butter, or more, according to the 
Quantity of your Fifn, fo put it over your Flounders, and 
ferve away quick. 

Ta ^i?// Flounders or Plaice. 

PU T Salt, whole Spice, White Wine, and a Bunch of 
fweet Herbs into your Water ; when it boils .put in a 
little Vinegar, for that v;ill make the 'Fifh crifp i iet it boil 

F 4 apacg 



i04- The L A D Y 's C o m p a n i on. 

apace before you put in your Fifh ; let them boil till they 
fvvini, then take them up, and drain them ; take a little of 
the Liquor, put it into fome Butter, two or three Anchovies, 
and fome Capers ; fet it over the Fire, and beat it up diick, 
then pour it over the Fiih, with ParHey, Capers, Orange and 
Lemon. 

Anothtr Way. 

BOIL Tweet Herbs, Tops of Roferaary, Thyme, Winter 
Savoury, and fweet Marjoram, picked Parfley, and a 
little whole Mace, in White Wine and Water, of each an 
equal Quantity ; when they have boiled for fome Time, then 
put in your Flounders, Ikim them well, then put in the Cruft 
of a French Roll, a Quarter of a Pound of Butter j feafon 
with Salt, Pepper, and Verjuice, and ferve it up hot. 

To broil Plaice or Flounders. 

SPLIT them, put fome Parfley and green Onions cut 
Imall in a Stew-pan, with Pepper, Salt, and a Lump of 
Butter; put in your Plaice or Flounders, and turn them two 
or three Times, to make them get a Tafte, without putting 
them over the Fire ; then ftrew them with very fine Crumbs 
of Bread, and put them a broiling ; when done, you may 
{ti\^ them up with a Ramolade under them, or any Sauce 
you think fit. 

^0 drefs Flounders or Plaice i^ith Garlick and Muflard. 

TAKE Flounders or Plaice, that are very frelh, cut 
all the Fins and Tails, then take out the Guts, and 
wipe them very clean -, they mufl rtot be at all waftisd ^ theii 
with your Knife fcore them on both Sides very grofly ; thea 
take the Tops of Thyme, and cut them very fmall, and 
lake a little Salt, Mace, Nutmeg, and mingle the Thyme 
-ind thafe together, and feafon the Flounders, lay them on a 
Gridiron, and bafte them with Oil or Butter, let not the 
Fire be too hot : when that Side next the Fire is brown, turn 
it, balle it on both Sides till you have broiled them brown i, 
when they are enough, make your Sauce Vv-ith Mullard, ac- 
cording to your Liking, fix Anchovies diilblved very well, 
above half a Pound of Butter drawn up with Garlick, Vine- 
«rar, or bruifed Garlick in other \'inegar, rub the Buttom of 
vour Difh with Garlick, fo put your Sauce to them, and 
ifiive them j you may fry them if you pleafe. 

Jnother 



ne Lady's Companion. 105 

Another Way to drefs Flounders, 

HA V I N G flea'd ofF the black Skin, and fcored the 
Fiih over on that Side, with a Knife, lay them on a 
Diih, and pour on them Ibme ^'inegar, and ftrevv good Store 
of Salt, let them lie for half an Hour : In the mean Time, 
fet fome Water on the Fire, with a little White Wine, Gar- 
lick, and fweetHcrbs, putting to it the Vinegar and Salt; 
whcrsin they lay ; when it boils put in the biggell Fifh,then 
the next, till all' be in ; when they are boiled take them ou> 
and drain them very well, then draw fome fweet Butter thick, 
and mix wich it fome Anchovies ihred fmall, which being 
dilTolved in the Butter, pour it on the Fifh, ilrewing a little, 
iliced Nutmeg, and minced Oranges and Barberries. 

To Jte'iK) Flounders. 

GE T large Flounders, and fcore them ; then lay thenr 
on a Pan ; pour round them a Pint of Sallad Oil ; Hice 
two or three Races of Ginger over them, alfo fome Cloves^ 
and a Blade or two of Mace : Pour upon them a Pint of 
White Wine \'inegar, mixed with a Pint of Claret ; add a 
Nutmeg fliced, two or three Onions cut, and a Bunoh of 
f^.veet Herbs ; ilew all thefe together, mince a Handful of 
Pariley fmall, put it in a little before they are dewed enough, 
lay Sippets in the Difli, put in your Fiih, pour on the ftewed- 
Liquor : Garnilli with green Pariley and Slices of Lemon. 

Another TVay. 

TAKE fmall Flounders, clean them, cut them a-crofs 
in the Middle, and place thefe Halves, Heads, and 
Tails, in your Stew-pan, with as much Water as will cover 
them ; put into the Liquor a Blade of Mace, fome Salt, a. 
Bit of Lemon-peel, and a Spoonful of Lemon-juice ; mix- 
together fome Crumbs of Bread, Salt, Pepper, Nutmegs 
Thymic, and Onion fhred very fine, and ftrew thefe over your 
Filli, when enough, ferve up hot. Garnilh with rafped Bread. f 
and fliced Lemon. 

To Jienjo Plaice. 

GU T and wafn them well, cut off the Ends of the Talls> 
put the Fifh into a Stew-pan with fome White Wine^ ^ 
Mufhrooms, Truffles, Morels, Pariley, Cives, Thyme, the • 
Milts, and a little Butter, worked up in Flour ; ftir and turn 
them gently for fear of breaking them ; WhfH they are done 

F 5 enough, . 



*o6 The Lad y's Co m p a n i g n, 

enough ferve tliem with a White -Sauce, ard garnilli with 
fry'd FuiF-pafie and Lemon, or any Fifli Garniture. 

To fry Plaice, we only drudge them with Flour, fry them 
brown, and ferve them with .fry'd Parfley. We likewife 
broil them on a Gridiron, and ferve them with a White 
Sauce, or Butter and Vinegar. 

Plaice n.vtth Crawf.ili CuUis. 

YOUR Plaice being gutted, wafhed and wiped dry, pat 
them in a Stew-pan, and feafon them with Pepper and 
Salt, fome Onions, green Lemon Slices, green Bay-leaves, 
Bafil, green Onions, Parfley, and Vinegar, then fet thenr a 
Hewing, and when they are done, take them off, but leave 
them in their Liquor to get a Tafte, make a Sauce with 
good frelh Butter, which you m.uft put in a Stew-pan, with a 
Couple of Anchovies and two whole Onions, feafoned with 
Pepper, Salt, Nutmeg, a Dull of P"iour, with a little Vine- 
gar and V/ater ; Ihake your Stew-pan, and when your Sauce 
i-s grown thick, put Crawf fli Cullis to it, till it be of the 
fame Colour, then take your Plaice out of their Liquor, difli 
them up, let your Sauce be relifliing, put it over them, and 
ferve them up hot for Entry. 

Plaice ixiith Anchovy and Caper Sauce. 

YOUR Plaice being boiled, as before directed, make 
a White Sauce ; take a Stew-pan, put good frefh But- 
ter into it, with a Couple of Anchovies, Capers, two green 
Onions whole, feafoned with Pepper, Salt, and Nutmeg, a 
Dait of Plcur to it, a Daih of Vinegar and Water; and 
make your Sauce upon the Stove ; take your Plaice out of 
the Liquor, let them drain, and dilli them up ; let the Sauce 
be relifning ; put it over your Plaice, and ferve them up hot. 

They may be ferved up with the fame Sauce, v/hen broiled 
and lie wed, with Crumbs of Bread,. 

To hah Plaice sr Flounders. 

BUTTER a Pally-pan with Butter, ilrew it over with 
a Seafoning of Salt, Pepper, Nutmeg, a little Parfley 
minced, and fweet Herbs, and three or four whole Cives ; 
cut off the Heads and Ends of the Fifh, lay them in the 
Pafty-pan, and pour upon them a Glafs of White Wine ; 
ftrew Salt and Pepper over them, and fprinkle melted Butter 
upon them, drudge them well with grated Bread, and fet 
th§m in the Ovsn^ when they are baked of a fine brown Co- 



^je 'LAjyy'h Companion. 107 

loar, take them out, take care you don't break them as you 
take theiYi up, then put into a Difh fome Anchovy Sauce, or 
Crawfifii Cullis, lay them in the Diih with your Sauce, and 
ferve them up. 

To fry Salt-Fiih. 

HAVING watered the Tail of the Salt-Fiih, till it is 
very frefn, cut it in Slices, or fry it whole, as ycu 
pleafe ; when you have dry'd it well, drudge it with Flour, 
fry it in clarified Butter till it is brown, and ferve it up dry^ 
with nothing but fry'd Parlley. 

To farce the Tail cf a Salt-Fifn. 

MINCE the FleOi of a Carp, and half the Quantity 
■ of the Flefh of an Eel together, with Mnfhroonis , 
and add to them Cream, and the Yolks cf three or four Egrs 
raw ; fealbn them with Salt, Pepper, Spices, -Cives, Parfley, 
and fweet Kerbs minced ; mingle all thefe well together, 
and pound them in a Mortar with fweet Butter : Boil the Salt- 
FifhTail, take cut the Flefh in Flakes, keep the Bone whole, 
with the End of the Tail hanging to it -.'Then brown fome 
Butter with Flour in a Sauce-pan. and tofs up fome Mufri • 
rooms and Truffles in it ; put in a little Fifli-Broth to moiUcri 
them ; let them Hand a little v/hiie to fimmer, then fliim off 
all the F'at, and add to the Ragoo the Flakes of your Salt- 
Fiih, with the Milts of Carps ; put in fome Crawffli Culli:; 
to bind it, and let it by to cool : Lay the Bone of your Salt- 
Fifh, Vv'ith the Tail, in a Difh or Pafty-pan, and lay your 
Fifh about it in the Shape of a Salt-Fllh's Tail ; make round 
it a Rim two or three Inches high, pour your Ragoo into it., 
and cover it with fome Farce of Carps, '&c. fmooth it over 
with a Knife, dipp'd in beaten Egg ; pour over it melted ■ 
Butter, drudge it with grated Bread, and fet it in an Oven.» 
till it is of a fine Colour, and ferve it up for a firft Courfe, 

If it be but a Pafty-pan, thin Slices of Bread mud be laid, 
under it, to prevent it from flicking to the Fan, and that 
you may flide it the eafier out of thePafly-pan into the Di^^ 
you intend to ferve it in. 



10.^' Ths Lady's Companion. 

To drefs Salt-Fiih. a la Sainte Menebcut. 

TAKE a Couple of Tails of Salt-Fiih, put them into^ 
boiling Water, and when they are boiled, divide them: 
into Steaks as large as you can : In the mean Time, make 
a Sauce for them thus ': Take a Stew-pan, put in it fome_ 
iweet Butter, a Pinch of Flour ; fet it over a Stove, put in 
alfo fome Cream, Pepper, and Nutmeg, Capers, Mufnrooms, 
Truffles, and Parfley Ihred j when thefe have fimm.ered toge- 
ther for fome Time over a Stove, fet it by to cool, v/hile 
you make a Hafh of Carp in the Manner following : Take 
a Carp, fcale, ikin, and bone it, ha£h the Fldh, put it into- 
a Sauce-pan, and dry it a little over the Fire till it 'grows 
white ; then take it out^ put to it a few Mufnrooms ar.^ 
Truffles, fome Cives and Parfley all minced very fine and 
mixed well together ; then fet a Sauce-pan over a Stove with- 
a good Piece of frefli Butter in it, brown it with Flour, then 
put your Hafh into it, feafon it with Salt, Pepper, and a Slice 
or two of Lemon. ; let it have two or three Turns over the 
Fire, then mciilen it wdl with Fifh-Broth, and thicken it 
well with three Spoonfuls of Crawlifh, or other Filh Cullis. 
When this Hafh is made, put it into a Difh : Garnilh the 
JBrims all round with your Salt-Fiih, but lay them not to 
cover the Hafh in the Middle ; ftrew over the whole crumb'd 
Bread, crumbled very fine, fet it in an Oven to brown, and- 
ferve it up hot for a firll Courfe. 

To drefs Salt-Fifh a la Montizeur. 

PICK the Flefh of Carp from the Bones and clear from 
the Skin, mince it fmall; put a Stew-pan over a Stove 
with a good Quantity of Butter, and five or fix whole 
Onions ; when the Butter is melted put in the minced Carp ; 
feafon it with Nutmeg and Pepper : In the mean Time boii 
your Salt-Fifn, pick the Flefh of that from the Skin and. 
Bones, and mince it very fmall, with two or three Rolls 
foaked in Milk very thick ; mix all thefe together with a 
Piece of fiefh Butter, and fome Nutmeg j when you have 
done this, fpread your Cod as long as the Size of your Difh 
will allow ; lay on the Difh fome of the minced Fifh ; lay 
the whole Cod'in the Middle cf the Difli, with fom.e of your 
minced Fifh about it ; lay Oyfters upon it, pour melted But- 
ter over it, and then ilrew over it grated Bread, and fet it 
under a baking Cover, or in an Oven : Make a Sauce for 
it of Butter; Milk and Nutmeg; pour a litde over the Fifa 

\\hs3.. 



The L A D y's Co m p a n i o n. 109. 

when it comes out of the Oven, put the rert in a Bafon or 
Porringer, and ferve it up hot for tlie firft Courfe. 

Soals, ixiih a Ragco of Cratvfjh. 

TAKE fomeSoals, and having gutted, fcraped, wafhedp. 
and dry'd them, cut off the Heads and the Tails ; flit, 
them along the Back, and take out the Eones : Take a fmall 
3oal and bone it, lay the Fleili on a T; ble, with a littla 
Parfley and Cives, feme Mufhrooms, the Yolks of three or. 
four raw Eggs, the Bignefs of an Egg of Bread foaked in 
Cream, and frefh Butter in Proportion; feafon this with 
Salt, Pepper, fvveet Herbs, and a little Spice, mince it all- 
well together, and pound it in a Mortar, then farce your 
Soais with it : Rub the Bottom of a Difli, or Pally-pan, over 
with Butter ; feafon it with Salt, Pepper, a very little fweet 
Herbs, and minced Parlky, together with a Couple of whols 
Leeks, then turn in whe Soals, the farced Side downwards, 
and feafon the uppermoll Side with Salt, Pepper, and Nut- 
meg ; fprinkle them over with melted Butter, drudge them 
fiightly with Bread crumbled very fme, and fet them to bake. 
in the Oven, or under a baking Cover ; when they are done- 
enough, and of a fine Colour, lay them in a Difh, and pour. 
a Ragoo of Crawfifh upon them. We likewife ferve them 
with a Ragoo of Oyflers, or of Mufhrooms or Truffles. 

To drefs Soals in Champaign Wine. 

GET fome middle-fiz'd Soals, and having gutted and 
fcaled them, cut off the Head and Tail, and the Fins 
all round them -, lay them in a Stew-pan, feafon them with 
Salt, Pepper, an Onion lluck with Cloves, a Bunch of fweet 
Herbs, lorhe whole Cives, minced Parfley, and Slices of 
Lemon : Pour on them a Pint of Champaign Wine, and a 
little Fifti-Brothj to which add a L'jmp of Butter, and fome 
Crumbs of Bread grated very fine ; fet all this over a Stove 
with a quick Fire : When the Soals are enough flewed, and 
the Liquor is vvafled away as it ought, thicken it with a brown 
CuUis, or with one of Crawfifh ; lay the Soals handfomelv 
on a Difh, pour the Sauce upon them, and ferve them warm 
for a firft Cburfe. 

To m^irinate Soals. 

LET large Soals be well wafhed, Ikin'd, and dry'd 5 
that done, beat them with a Rolling-pin^ and dipthen^ 
«a- hotK Sides in the. Yolks of Eggs tempered with Flour : 

Than- 



I lo The Lady's Companio n. 

Then putting ypur Fiih into a Fry -pan, with as much FIo^ 
tince Oil as will cover them, fry them till they are brown, 
i\nd coaie to a bright yellow Colour, or fry them in clarified 
Butter : At that Inilant take them up, drain them on a Plate, 
and let them by to cool. For the Pickle take White Wine 
Vinegar well boiled v/ith Salt, Pepper, Nutmeg, Cloves, 
and Mace : It is requifite to turn the Liquor into a broad 
earthen Pan, that the.Fiih may lie at full Length ; and the 
Difn is to be garniilied with Flowers, Fennel, Dill, and Le- 
mon-peel.. 

' A Surtoat of Soals. 

YO U muft make a Farce of the Fleih of a C^rp and an 
Eel, as follows : Mince it on a Table with fome Mufh- 
rooms, Parfiey, and Cives; ieaion the V/hole with Sslt, Pep- 
per, a little fweet Herbs, and Spice, and put it into a Mortar ; 
take the Bignefs of two Eggs of the Crumb of Pread, put 
it into a Sauce-pan, with fome Cream or Milk, and boil it 
over a Stove ; when it comes to be half thickened, put in the 
Yolks of two Eggs, fiir them v*'ell about in it, and when it is 
boiled very thick, take it off, and fet it a cooling : Mean 
while, the Farce being well pounded, add to it as much But- 
ter as your Difcretion thinks fit, three or four Yolks of raw 
Eggs, and the Breai Cream; pound the Whole again toge- 
ther, then take it out of the Mortar : F'ry two or three Soals, . 
and when they are fried, raife up the Flefh in long Flakes 
or Slices ; fet a Sauce-pan over a Stove with a Lump of But- 
ter, a Flandful of fmall Muftirooms, and fome Trufiles cut 
in Slices ; tofs them up, moiften them with a little Broth ; 
feafon the Whole with Salt, Pepper, and a Bunch of fweet 
Herbs, and boil it ; when it is enough boiled, take the Fat 
clean off; and having bound the Sauce with a brown Cul- 
lis, or one of Crawfilh, put in the Slices or Flakes of your 
Soals, and let them fmimer over a gentle F'ire, then take 
them off, and fet them a cooling : Take a Difh, fpread the 
Bottom of it with fome of the Farce round it ; when your 
.Ragoo of Soals is cold, pour it into the Dilh, and cover 
it v;ith fome of the fame Farce ; dip a broad Knife in 
beaten Eggs, and rub it gently over the Farce, to make it 
lie fmooth ; lay all round it fome thin Slices of Bread, fprin- 
kle it over with melted Butter, drudge it with very fine 
Crumbs of Bread, and fet it to bake in an Oven ; when it 
is baked, and of a fine Colour, take it out of the Oven, clear 



1:153 Lady's Companio?7J \i% 

it well of the Fat, wipe the Brims of the Difii very clean, 
and ferve it hot for the firil Coarfe. 

l^ote. We make all Sorts of Surtouts of Filli, in the fame 
Manner ; that is to fay, always with tlie fame Farce ; it is 
only the Ragoo you put in that makes the Difference, and 
gives the Name to it. 



FL E A and draw your Soals, then boil them in VinegaW 
White Wine, Salt, and. Mace, but make the Liquor 
boil before you put in the Soals ; when they are enough, 
clifh them on Sippet:. ; garnifii with Slices of Lemon, whole 
Mace, Goofeberries, Barberries, or Grapes ; run the Fifh 
over with Batter beat up thick with the Juice of Oranges 5 
and you may lay llew'd Oyflers over the Soals. 

Another Way. 

HAVING flea'd and dravv'n them, fcore them on one 
Side with a Knife, lay them in a Difh, and pour on 
them fome Vinegar and Salt, then let them lie in it for half 
an Hour ; in the mean Time, fet fome Water on the Fire 
with White Wine, Salt, half a Dozen Cloves of Garlicky 
ard a Bunch of fweet Kerbs ; when the Liquor boils, put in 
your Soals, and pour in the Vinegar and Salt that they lay to. 
lleep in ; v/hen they are boiled drain them well, and bead 
up Butter very thick, and put in fome Anchovies minced 
\^ery fmall, and diflclve them ; diih your Fijh, pour on thsi 
Sauce, llrew on a little grated Nutmeg, and Orange minced,, 
and mix it with the Butter. 

To drefs So ah nvith Cucumbers. 

AFTER have fcaJed, gutted, and dry'd your Soan,.- 
flit them down the Back, and fry them, cut off their 
Heads, and the Ends of their Tails, and fet them to drain ; 
cut three or four Cucumbers into Dice, lay them for two 
Hours in a Marinade of Vinegar, Salt, Pepper, and an 
Onion cut in Slices ; turn them often, and when they have 
Liin the Time, dry them with a Linen Cloth -, put Butter into 
a Sauce-pan, melt it, put in the Cucumbers, brown them^ 
then put in Filh-Broth to moiflen them, fet them over a 
gentle Fire, and let them fimmer a little ; when they are 
enough, clear off all the Fat, and put in a brown Cullis to 
bind it, or elfe a Brown made of fry'djjFlour ; put the fry'd 
Soals into the Sauce-pan to the Cucumbers j hi them fmimer 

a.-while^ 



312 7Z'<?Lady*s Companion. 

a^while, then difh them, pour the Ragoo over them^ ani 
ferve them up. 

To drefs Soals /;; Fricandos. 

SCRAPE, gut, vvalh, and dry your Soals ; cut off their 
Heads, Tails, and Pins, quite round them j then flea ofF 
the upper Skins, and lard th&in with fmall Lardoons, and 
flour them ; then fet a Stew-pan over the Fire, with a little 
melted Bacon, and when it is hot, lay in the Soals one by 
one, and brown them; when they are' come to a good Co- 
lour take them up : Mince Muihrooms or TruHies fmall,. 
put them into a Difh, with an equal Quantity of Cullis of 
Veal, and Ham, and EiTence of Ham ; then lay the Soals in- 
a Di(h the larded Side uppermoft ; lay another Difn over 
them, and let them fimmer a-while over a^ gentle Fire ; when 
they are done enough take oif the Soals, pour the Cullis 
into a Diih you defign to ferve in, fqueeze in the Juice of 
a Lemon, lay your Soals on the Cullis, and ferve them up 
hot. 

7o fry Soals. 

GU T your Soals, wafh them, dry them v/ith a Clothe 
drudge them with Flour, and fry them brown in cla- 
rified Butter ; then drain them well, lay a Napkin in a Difh, 
lay them upon it with fry'd Parfley, and ferve them up hot 
for a firft Courfe. They are commonly eaten with Salt, 
Pepper, and the Juice of Lemon or Orange. 

Another Way. 

CU T open your Soals on the Back and both Sides, and 
bone them till the who'e Flefh appears, and drudge 
them with Flour, and fry them with clarified Butter ; then 
garnifn them with the Flefh of other Soals, and make a 
white Sauce with an Anchovy and Capers, or P^oburt Sauce, 
or elfe a Ragoo of Mufhrooms, with Livers of Pikes, Arti- 
choak Bottoms chopt very fmall, and the Roes of Carps, 
and fqueeze in the Juice of Lemon wheiryou ferve it up to 
Table, 

7o fry Soals (with a browun Cullis. 

YOUR Soals being gutted, wafhed, and dried, flit them 
down the Back, and fry them ; then cut off their 
'■ Heads, and the Ends of their Tails ; fet fome Butter over 
the Fire in a Sauce-pan, with fomc Cives and Parfley fhred^ 

■vvhea^- 



^he Lady's Com pan ton. 113 

when it has flood a little, put in fome Fifli-Broth to moiften 
it ; put in alfo fome Salt and Pepper, let them fimmer for a 
while, then put in a few Capers, and pour in fome brown 
CuUis to bind it, put the Soals into the Sauce, let them fim- 
mer in it a little, then diih them, pour the Sauce over theni;, 
and ferve them. 

Another Way to fry Soals. 

TA K E a Pair of large Soals, flea off their Skins on- 
both Sides ; fry them in Sewet with Spice, Salt, and 
Bay-leaves ; lay them in a Difh, and put them to Claret, 
Anchovies, and Butter; lay another Dilhover them, and fet 
them over a Chafing-diih of Coals ; let them flew a -while, 
tqueeze in fome Juice of Lemcn -, garnifh with Orange or 
Lemon, and ferve them up. 

To roajl Soals. 

HA VIN G drawn them, Ikin and dry them, minceWin- 
ter-favoury. Thyme, fweat Marjoram, and a Sprig of 
Rofemary together ; mix thefe with Salt, grated Nutmeg, 
and feafon your Soals with them ; having firfl larded them 
with a fat frefh Eel, and lay them to lleep for an Hour in 
White Wine that has had Anchovies diffolved in it ; roaft 
them on a fraall Spit, fet them under the Difh wherein they 
were fleeped, bafle them with Butter; and when they are 
enough, boil up the Gravy and the Liquor in the Difh it 
dropped into together j then difh them, pour the Sauce over 
them, lay on them Slices of Lemon, and ferve them up. 

To foufe Soals. 

SCOTCH your Soals on the white Side thick, l?ut not 
deep ; boil them in White Wine, Wine Vinegar, Salt, 
fliced Ginger,. Cloves, and Mace, jufl as much as will cover 
them ; when your Liquor boils put in your Soals, then put 
in fiiced Onions, Winter-favoury, fweet Marjoram, Rofe- 
mary, Sage, Thyme, and Parfley 3 when they are. boiled' 
enough fet them by to cool. 

To drefs Soals the Spanifh Way, 

FR Y your Soals, and afterwards cut tliem into Fillets % 
make a Sauce for them of White Wine, Salt, Pepper, 
a Couple of Cloves of Garlick, Thyme, and a Bay-leaf." 

Then 



ii"4 T^<? L AD Y*s Com p A N ION. 

Then foak them by Degrees in the Sauce, and garnllli them 
with what you pleafe. 

Slices of larded Soals. 

SCRAPE, and cut them in four Slices ofi* from the Bones, 
lard them with fine Bacon ; boil them in White Wine, 
feafoned with a little Salt, Farlley, green Onions, fweet Banl, 
fome Sprigs of Thyme, Bay-leaves, and Slices of Lemon ; 
after a Boil or two, take them out to drain ; ,put fome Slices 
of Veal and Ham, with an Onion cut in four, into your 
Stew-pan ; moiften it with Broth, and fet it on to ftew ; your 
Veal being done, put in the Slices of your Fifli for a Minute 
or two, and take them out to drain. Put your Broth in a 
clean Stew-pan, big enough to hold your Slices, and let it 
boil to a Jelly ; then place your Slices of Fifh in it, the 
larded Side downwards, and let them glaze over a gentle 
Fire. Being ready, ferve them up for a fmail Courfe. 

Soals drefcd the Dutch Way. 

SCRAPE your Soals, flit them about two Inches from 
the Tail up the Gills, and put them in frefli Water for 
an Hour ; put Water over the Fire to boil, and put in Parf- 
ley-roots well fcraped, with the Heads of your Fifh cut in 
four, if they are large, but not parted from each other, and 
a good Bunch of Parfley wafhed clean ; thefe b^ing boiled^, 
take them out with your Skimmer, put in your Fifn, the 
Water being high feafoned with Salt ; let them boil about 
Half a Quarter of an Hour, and put your Roots ard Parfley 
in again for a Moment, before you take out your Fifh, to- 
make them take the Tafte of Salt ; then put your Fifh in a 
deep China Plate, with your Parfley-roots, and the Parfley 
over them, and fill up your Difh with the, fait Water your 
Fifh were boiled in/ They commonly eat thefe Fifh with 
Toaft and Butter. 

5o Jleir} Soals. 

WK E N your Soals are waflVd, and the Fins cut ofT, 
put them into a Stew-pan, with no Liquor but a 
Quarter of a Pint of White Wine, fome Mace, whole Pep- 
per, and Salt ; when they are half flew'd, put in fome Cream, 
and a little Bit of Butter dipped in Flour ; when that is melted 
put in fome Oyfters with their Liqvior, keep them often 
Shaking till the Fifli and Oyilers are enough, or the Oyfters 

break,. 



ne Lad y's Companion. i 15 

break, fqueeze in a little Juice of Lemon, and pour it into 
the Dim. 

Another Way. 

TA K E a Pair of Soals, lard them with watered Sale 
Salmon, then lay them on a fmooth Board, cut the- 
Lard out of an equal Length ; on each Side let it be but 
fhort, then drudge the Fifn with Flour, and fry them in Al^ 
till they are half done ; then lay them in a DiHi with fix 
Spoonfuls of White Wine, three of Wine Vinegra*, three^^ 
Ounces of Butter, and fome Slices of Orange and Lemon, 
with Salt and g -^.ted Nutmeg ; lay another Diili over it, and- 
let them Hew j then difa them up with Slices of Lemon, 
beaten Butter, and the Juice' of Oranges. 

^0 drefs Soals a la Sainte MenchoKt. 

GU T, fcrape, wafli, and dry your Soals, and cut olF 
their Fins, boil a Quart of Milk, then put it into a 
Stew-pan, and put the Soals to it, with a good Lump of 
Butter; feafon it with Salt, Pepper, Spices, whole Cloves, 
Gives, Bay-leaves, fweet Bafil, Parfley, and fome fliced 
Onions ; put in your Soals, let them ftevv i when they arc- 
enough, take them out, rub them over with the Fat of their 
own Liquor ; drudge them with grated Bread, broil thera. 
on a Gridiron over a gentk Firs; v/he.n they are enough,, 
and finely browned, lay a Napkin in a Di(h, lay the Soals 
upon the Napkin, and ferve them up. You may, if yoa 
pleafe, fet a SWer of Ramolade in the Middle of the Diih. 

To farce Soals nvith ftveet Herbs, 

FR Y your Soals, let them Hand to cool,, then make 3; 
Farce of fme Herbs, 'vi^. I'hyme, Savoury, fvveet Ba- 
fil, Parfley, and Gives, all minced fmall together, feafoned 
with Salt, Pepper, Nutmeg, and Cloves ; then drefs all 
thefe with a good Piece of Butter, take out the Bones of 
your Soals at the Top of the Back, and farce them vvidi this 
Farce ; then foak them in melted Butter, drudge them with 
grated Bread, broil them on a Gridiron, and bring them to 
a fine brown Colour with a red-hot Iron : Serve them up 
v.-'wi Lemons cut in Halves. 



Spa!;J 



iiS Th Lad y*s Compan io?f. 

Soals drejed ir^ith Fennel. 

GU T, fcrape, and wafh large Soals, and wipe them 
dry, chop ofF the Heads and the Ends of their Tails ; 
melt fome Butter, put a little Pepper and Salt to it, and 
turn your Fifh in it ; put fome green Fennel over a Gridiron, 
lay your Fifh over it, and let them broil gently over a fiow 
Fire; being done on one Side, turn them, and keep up 
your Fire. Put a little Butter into a Stew-pan over a Stove 
with a few green Onions and Parfley chopp'd fmall, llir it 
up now and then, and moilkn it with a little Fifli-Broth, or 
Water ; then add a Couple of Anchovies chopp'd, a few 
Capers, and fome Fennel ; thicken your Sauce with your or- 
dinary Cull is, let it be high relifned, and diih it up ; take off 
your Soals from the Gridiron, clean them from the Fennel 
that ilicks to them, lay them over your Sauce, andi fierve 
them up hot. 

Soals drejfed ivith Lettuce. 

STUFF your Soals, and order them as in the firft Receipt 
for drelhng Soals with a Ragoo of Crawfifh : Take a 
Dozen or two of the Hearts of Lettuces, blanch them, put 
them into cold Water, fqueeze the Water well out of them, 
and tie them up in two Parcels j put them in a Stew-pan, 
moiften with Broth, feafoned with Pepper, Salt, and a Bunch 
of fweet Herbs, and let them flew over a flow Fire ; being 
done, fkim off the Fat, thicken your Sauce with Cullis, let 
your Ragoo be of a good Tafte, and diih it up j take out 
your Soals when well coloured, lay them over your Lettuces, 
and ferve them up hot. 

Soals fluffed ivitb Ancbofvies. 

STUFF the Soals, and order them as in the foregoing* 
Receipt ; and make a white Sauce thus : Put fome frefh 
Butter in a Stew-pan, with a Dull of Flour, feafoned with 
Pepper, Salt, and a little Nutmeg ; moillen the Pan with 
a little Water and a Daih of Vinegar; walh and bone_ a- 
Couple of Anchovies, chop and put them in your Sauce, with 
a whole green Onion, and a Slice of Lemon, and put your 
Sauce over the Stove ; your Soals being done, and of a good 
Colour, take them out, put them over your Sauce, and ferve 
them up hot. . 



51?^ Lad y's Com PA N ION. iiy 

To bake Soals. 

HA V I NG cleaned your Soals, cut off their Heads and 
Tails, flit them along the Back, and feafon them 
with Salt, Pepper, fome fweet Herbs, a little Parfley, and 
whole Cives ; then rub a Difli with Butter, and lay m your 
Soals feafoncd both over and under ; fprinkle them with 
melted Butter, and drudie them with fine Crumbs of Bread; 
bake them of a fine brown Colour ; and when enough, take 
off all the Fat, and ferve with a Sauce of Anchovies under 
them. 

To roaji Lobfters. 

HAVING run a fmall Bird-fpit through the Lobilers 
Bellies, tie them fail to the Spit with Packthread, and 
w'iien they are enough, they will crackle ; lay a whole one, 
the largell of all, in the Middle of the Difli ; butter the 
relt in Shells, as in the Receipt below, with Pepper, Le- 
mon, and an Anchovy diflblved in White Wine ; mix the 
Whole together, and ierve them up with Lemon and Oy- 
fters. 

To roajl Lobllers alive. 

AFTER having tied them fail on the Spit, baftc them 
with Salt and Water till they look red, and then 
with Butter and Salt ; let the Sauce be Anchovies diflblved 
in White Wine, a little Pepper, and the Juice of a Le- 
mon. 

To butter Lobflers. 

TAKE out the Meat, mince it fmall, and fet it to flew 
gently in a Stew-pan over a Stove, with White Wine, 
Salt, and a Blade of Mace ; when it is very hot, put to it 
fome Buttet and Crumbs of Bread ; warm the Shells before 
the Fire, fill them with ?v4eat, and ferve them up. 

You may do Shrimps, or Prawns, the fame Way, only you 
muft not put them into the Shells again, but garnifli'your 
Difli with them. 

To broil Lobflers. 

GE T Lebflers, boil them, then lay them on a Gridiron, 
bafte them either with Butter alone, or mixed with 
Vinegar; let them broil leifurely, and when you think 
they are enough, ferve them up with Butter and Vinegar 

beat 



fiS The Lady's CoMPANiOfi. 

beat thick, to which put fome grated Nutmeg and lliced - 
Lemon. 

To fry Lobflers. 

TA K E a boiled Lobller, take out the Meat, flice it 
long Ways, flour it, and hy it in Butter white and 
crifp, or roll it in a Batter made of Cream, Eggs, Flour, 
and Salt, and fry it, beat fome Butter up thick with grated 
Nutmeg, Claret, and the Juice of Oranges, for Sauce ; rub 
the Diili with an Onion or Shalot ; lay in the Lobiter, pour 
on the Sauce ; garnilh the Dilh with Slic^ of Lemon and 
•Orange, and ferve it up. 

To fnarinate Lobflers. 

PARBOIL them, take out the Meat, and lard the 
Tails with a faked Eel ; then cut the Tails longways, 
and fry them in Oil ; then make a Sauce with White Wine 
Vinegar, Salt, Pepper, Cloves, Mace, iliced Ginger, Parf- 
ley. Sage, Winter-favoury fweet Marjoram, the Tops of 
Rofemary and Thyme, and Bay-leaves ; difh yourFifh, and 
pour Sauce upon them, and lay on them three Lemons fliced, 
and run it all over with Butter. 

To pickle Lobfters. ' ~ 

BOIL them in Vinegar, White Wine, and Salt ; tlien 
take them up -, then put into the Liquor all Sorts of 
fv.eet Kerbs, fom.e whole Cloves, Pepper, and large Adace ; 
then put in your L^obikrs again, boil them all together, put 
their, up in a Barrel or VY'fiel, that will jufl hold them, and 
pour the Liquor upon them, and keep them for Ufe. 

Another Way. 

EO I L them in Water and Salt till they will flip out of 
\ their Shells j then take the Tails out whole ; make a 

Pickle for them of Port Wine and Water, an equal Quantity, 
put in a Sprig or two of Rofemary, Thyme, Savoury, a 
Couple of fmall Cucumbers, Capers, and whole Muflirooms; 
put your Lobflers in this Pickle, and let them have a Boil or 
two ; take them out, fet them by to cool ; boil the Pickle a 
little more, let it fland till cold, then put both Lobflers and 
Pickle in a long Pot, and tie it up clofe. 



%9 



^he Lady's Companion. 119 

To Jlevj Lobflers. 

PU T the Meat of the Lobilers in a Stew-pan, with Vine- 
gar, Claret, Butter, Salt, and Nutmeg ; flew it ibme- 
what dry, and then take it up, and lay it in a Difh ; pour 
Butter over it, and garnifii it v/ith Slices of Lemon. 

To butter Lobilers. 

PARBOIL your Loba;ers, then break the Shells, pick 
out all the Meat, cut it fmall, take the Meat out of the 
Body, mix it line with a Spoon in a little White Wine : For 
Example, A fmall Lobiler, one Spoonful of Wine, put it in- 
to a Stew-pan with the Meat of the Lobuer, four Spoonfuls 
of White Wine, a Blade of Mace, a little beaten Pepper 
and Salt : Let it Itew all together a few Minutes, then llir in 
a Piece of Butter, Ihake your Stew-pan round till your But- 
ter is melted, put in a Spoqnful of Vinegar, and llrev/ in as 
many Crumbs of Bread as will make it thick enough : 
When it is hot, pour it into your Plate, and garnilh with the 
Chine of a Lobiler, cut in four, peppered, faked, and bfoiled. 
This makes a pretty Plate, or a iine Difli, with two or three 
Lobilers. You may add one Tea-lpoonful of iine Sugar to 
your Sauce. 

Another Way to roaft Lobflers. 

BOIL your Lobilers, then lay them before the Fire, and 
baile them vWth Butter till they have a fine Broth : Difh 
them up with plain melted Butter in a Cup. This is as good 
a Way to the full as roafling them, and not any-thing like 
the Trouble. ^ 

To make a fine Dijh of Lobflers. 

TAKE three Lobflers, boil the largeil as above, and 
froth it before the Fire : Take the other two boiled, 
and butter them as in the Receipt above : Take the two 
Body Shells, heat them hot, and £11 them with the buttered 
Meat : Lay the large Lobiler in the Middle, and the two 
Shells on each Side ; and the two great Claws of the Middle 
Lobiler at each End ; and the four Pieces of Chines of the 
two broiled Lobflers at the End of the Shells .; This, if nicely 
Uojie, makes a pretty Difh. 



I^oblbrs^ 



? 20 The L A D y's C o m p a N I N, 

Lobflers, the Italian Way. 

TAKE from your Lobfters, when boiled and cold, the 
Flefh of the Tails, and great Claws, and cut it in 
Slices ; put a little Butter in a Stew pan, with fome Chibbol, 
Parfley, Mufh rooms, and Truffles, cut fmall, and tofs it up, 
put in your Slices, moiften it with Gravy, and a Glafs of 
White Vvine ; then fcaion it with Salt, Pepper, fweet Herbs, 
and Rocambole. Let it Hew flowly, put a Spoonful of Oil, 
the Meat of the Body, tjc. Juice of a Lemon, in your Sauce, 
thicken with fome Cullis. 

"To irefi Crabs. 

HA\'1NG taken out the Meat, and cleans'd It from 
the Skins, put it into a Stew -pan, with a Quarter of a 
Pint of White Wine, or Canary, fome Crumbs of white 
Bread, an Ancho\y, and a little Nutmeg : Then fetting them 
over a gentle Fire, flip in the Yolk of an Egg, with a little 
beaten Pepper, and llir all well together, in order to be 
fcrved up for a Side-difh. 

To broil Crabs. 

BOIL your Crabs in Water and Salt ; beat Oil and 
^^inegar well together, lay your Crabs to fleep in it ; 
then lay them on a Gridiron over a gentle Fire ; as they broil 
bafte them with Rofemary Branches ; ferve them up wit^ 
beaten Butter and Vinegar, or Oil and Vinegar, with 
the Roiemar}' Branches they were balled with. 

To butter Crabs. 

BOIL your Crabs, take the Meat out of their Bodies, 
and ftrain it, with the Yolks of three or four hard Eggs, 
into fome Claret, Vinegar, Sugar, and beaten Cinnamon ; 
then put all into a Pipkin with frefii Butter, and let it Hew 
for a Quarter of an Hour, and ferve them up as before. 

Another Way. 

BOIL your Crabs, take the Meat out of their Shells, 
and alio out of their great Claws ; cut it into Dice- 
work, and put both the Meats into a Pipkin with White 
Wine, the Juice of Oranges, Nutmeg, and Slices of Orange; 
let it have three or four Walms over the Fire i and having 
cleaned the Shells well, put the Meat into them, and lay the 
Legs on the Difh round about. 



^he Lad y's Companion. m 

To fry Crabs. 

FIRST boil a large Crab, take the Meat out of the 
great Claws, flour and fry it, then take the Meat out of 
the Body, firain it, keep one half to be fry'd, and the other 
for the Sauce ; mix that you fry with Almond Palte, grated 
Bread, Salt, Nutmeg, and the Yolks of Eggs; dip thefe 
firft in Batter, and fry them in clarify'd Butter; then beat 
feme Butter up thick with the Juice of Orange and grated 
Nutmeg ; put in the reft of the ilrained Meat, let this be 
your Sauce ; dilh your fry'd Meat, placing the Legs about it, 
run it oi'er with beaten Butter, and lay fry'd Parllcy about 
the Brim of the Diih. 

To ficnjo Crabs, '*' 

BOIL them, take the Meat out of the Bodies, fave the 
great Claws and the fniall Legs whole to garnifh •i;]:e 
JDilh, Icrain the Meat with Claret Wine, Vinegarj^'Salt, Nut- 
meg, and a Piece of Butter ; put them into a Stew pan, and 
let them ftew for an Hour over a gentle Fire, till they are 
almolr dry ; then put in Butter, beat up diick, with the [uice 
of Oranges ; diili the Shells, being waih'd, with the Meat in 
them, lay the Claws and little Legs round about them, and 
lerve them. 

Or thus. 

OIL them, take tlie Meat out of tlie Shells, and put 
it into a Stew-pan, with Claret Wine, Vinegar, Salt, 
Pepper, grated Bread, minced Thyi^ie, the Yolks of hard 
Eggs, minced very fmall, and flrained, frefh Butter, large 
Mace, ^and Capers, let them ftew together, rub the Slielk 
with a Clove of Gaiiick, and difti them as before dirc(^l:ed. 

To make an artificial Crab or Lobfler. 
T is fuppofed that you have by you the large Shells of 
Sea Crabs cleaned; then take Part of a Calf's Liver, boii 
it, and mince it very fmall, and a little Anchovy Liquor, 
and but very little, to give it the Fiih Tafie. Mix it with a 
Jiule Lemon-juice, fome Pepper, and fome Salt, with a little 
Oil, if you like it, and fill the Shells with it; and then the 
putfide Part of the Liver, being a little hard, will feel to 
the Mouth like the Claws of the Crab, broken and picked, 
and the inner Parts will be foft and tender, like the Body 
of a Crab. One may ferve this cold, and it will deceive a 
' Vol. I. G very 



X 2 2 ^he Lady's Companion. 

'/ery good Judge, if you co not put too much of the Anchovy 
Liquor in it. It is very good cold, but if you would have 
it hot, take the following Receipt. 

To make artificial hot buttered Sea-Crabs. 

MAKE the great Shells of Crabs clean, and prepare 
fome Liver, as before ; or if you cannot get Calf's 
Liver, get a Lamb's Liver, or a young Sheep's Liver will do 
tolerably well : Boil thefe, and fhred them as directed be- 
fore, and put a little Anchovy Liquor to them, add a little 
White Wine, fome Pepper and Salt at Pleafure, and fome 
other Spice at Difcretion, with Butter neceffary to make it 
mellow, over a gentle Fire, or a little Sallad Oil, if you 
like Oil : Then add a little Lemon-juice in the Shells, ftir- 
ring the Mixture together ; then ferve them up with Lemon 
ihced. 

To make ariif.cial Cra'os. 

YO U mull take fome of the White of a roafied or boiled 
Chicken's Breair, and fhred it very fmall ; then add 
fome Roots of Potatoes boil'd and beat into Pulp ; mix thefe 
together, and grate a little Lem.on-peel upon it, add fome 
Anchovy Liquor to it, with fome Oil, and, put a little Le- 
mon-juice to it, or Vinegar, with fon.e Pepper or Salt ; ferve 
iit upon Sippets, garnifiied with diced Lemon : Thefe may 
be buttered in Shells as the former ; but the nril is rather the 
beil. 

To make artificial LobRers. 

PR.A C T I C E the fame Method with either of the for- 
mer ; and to imitate the Tail of the Lobfter, put in 
the Tails of Shrimps, Buntings, Prawns, or Crawiilh ; the 
Jaft cut in Pieces, and ferve them either upon Sippets in a 
Plate, or in the large Shell of the Lobfler. 

This is a Sort of Salmi, or Salmigundy, as we call it in 
BnglarJ, but is very much like the Thing we want ; and we 
think if the Shrimps, or others, were put into the firft, it 
would make it better than putting in the Anchovy Liquor ; 
bu: if they are to imitate a Crab, they muil chop the Shrimps 
ox Prawns s^ry fmall. 



^he L A D y's C M p A N I o N. 123 

To boil Perches. 

GUT your Perches, give them three Scotches with a 
Knife to the Bone, only on one Side ; after that put. 
into a Stew-pan or Kettle, Water, as much hard rtale Beer, 
WMte Wine, and Vinegar, as will cover your Fifh, and 
Herbs, ^c. then put in a good Quantity of Salt, a Bunch of 
Winter-favoury, Thyme, Rofemary, and Parlley, and a 
Handful of Horfe-radilh Root lliced : Set your Stew-pan 
over a briik Wood Fire, and let it boil up to the Height, 
and then put in your Fiih one by one, that they may not 
cool the Liquor, fo much as to make it fail in its boiling : 
While the Filh are boiling, for your Sauce take a little of 
the Liquor, and beat up Ibme Butter with it j then, when 
your Perches are enough, take them up, take off the Skins, 
dilli them, ftrcw iliaved Horfe-radifh over them, and fome 
beaten Ginger ; ran them over with your melted Btjcter. 
Garnifh the Sides of the Diih with fliced Lemon, and fend it 
up to Table. 

Perches ivith Jnrhfi-vy-fauce. 

GU T your Perches, and ftew them in a Ccwt-Bouillon. 
as loliows : Lay them in a Stew-pan with fom.e fliced 
Onion and Lem.on, fome Parfley, Gives, Bay-leaves, Bafil, 
Cloves, Pepper, and Salt, iwo GlalIVs of V/hite Wine, a lit- 
tle Vinegar, and as much Water as v.'ill cover them, fo flew 
them over a Stove ; then take them oft', and fet them to cool 
a little in the Court Bouillon: When they have ilood a while 
take them out, ikin them without breaking the Fiefh, lay 
them in a Diili, and cover them that they may not grov/ 
cold : Put fom.e frefh Butter into a Stew-pan, with a little 
Flour, a Couple of m.inced Anchovies, fome Capers, and a 
whole Leek, a Slice or two of Lemon, the Whole belnjr 
feafoned with Salt, Pepper, and a little Nutmeg, add to it a 
little Water and Vinegar ; keep turning the Sauce: over a 
Stove with a Spoon, and when the Butter is meked and 
thickened, take out the Leek and filced Lemon, pour it on 
the Perches, and ferve them up for the iirfl: Courfe. 

Perches, W/^ a Cullis of Cravjfijh. 

STEW your Perches in a Court- Bouillon, fkin them, and 
^ lay them in a Dilh, as in the foregoing Receipt, make 
a Sauce as follov/s : Put the Quantity of two Eggi of fre Ih 
Butter JB a Stew-pan, with one minced Anclfovy? ^ome 

G 2 Fspper, 



1 24 ne L A D y's C m p a n I n. 

Pepper, Salt, a Iktle grated Nutmeg, a Pinch of Flour, a 
Drop or two of Water, and as much Vinegar, turn it over a 
Stove with a Spoon ; when the Butter is melted, and a little 
thickened, put in fome Crawfiih Cullis ; pour this Sauce on 
your Perches, and ferve them for the firil Courfe. They 
may be ferv^ed likewile with all Sorts of Cullifes as well as 
this. 

Perches drejfed in Filhts. 

CLEANSE Muihroorns well, and beat them in a 
little Cream ; then having cut your Perches into Fil- 
lets or Slices, the whole Length of the Body, dividing each 
Perch into four Pieces, mix them together, and boil them 
with a Thickening made of the Yolks of three Eggs, fem.e 
Nutmeg grated, a little Parfley fhred, and tViC Juice of a Le.- 
irioa: St'r them very carefully that you do no: break your 
Fillets j and when they are boiled enough, cifli them, pour 
your Ragoo over them, with fome Parile}', a?id Slices of 
Lemon. 

^0 fry Perches. 

AFTER having fcraped off the Slime and Scales, wafli 
them in Salt and Water, gut them, and dry them in a 
Cloth ; flour them, and fry them in fwect Butter, till they 
are brown and crifp ; then lay them in a warm Di{h before 
the Fire, and pour away that Butter : Take other frefh But- 
ter, and fry in it a good deal of ParHey and Sage crifp ; lay 
thefe fry'd Herbs on yourJFifh. In the meanTim.e, let an 
Anchovy be diilblved in three or four Spoonfuls of fcalding 
hot Spring Water, and with them beat up fome Butter ; pour 
this on your Perches. Gamifh with Parfley and Strawberry- 
leaves. 

Perches the Armenian Way. 

TAKE Perches of about a Pound Weight, fcale and fli^ 
them, fealbn them with Mace, Salt, pounded Bifkets, 
and Slices of Lemon, and Butter all over them, turn them 
Infide out, tie them with Packthread, and broil them till 
thoroughly done i then cut off the Thread, open them^ and 
ferve ttem up with melted gutter and the Juice of a Le- 
mon. 



7o 



'TJc'e Lad y's C o m p a n i o n. 125 

ro boil Bafs. 

SAVE the I,ivers and Roes of your Bafs, fcale and vvaHi 
them well, then boil them in Water, Wine Vinegar, 
Salt, a Faggot of Tweet Herbs, fome ' whole Onions, and 
Lemon fiiced ; make a Sauce of drawn Butter, Mace, Cin- 
namon, a Nutmeg quartered, and three or four Anchovies 
diflblved \vith them; difh your Fifii, pour on the Sauce, and 
garnifh with fry'd Oyllers and Bay-leaves. 

> 
To fry Trouts. 

YO U muft, with a Knife, gently fcrape oiFall the Slime 
from your Filh, wafh them in Salt and Water, gut 
them, and wipe them very clean with a Linnen Cloth ; that 
done, flrew Flour over them, and fry them in fweet Butter, 
till they are brown and crifp ; thea take them out of the 
Frying-pan, and lay them on a Pewter Difh, well heated 
before the Fire j pour off the Butter they were fry'd in, into 
the Greafe Pot, and not over the Trouts : Afterwards, good 
Store of Parfley and young Sage being fry'd crifp in other 
fweet Butter, take out the Herbs, and lay them on your Fifh. 
In the mean while, fome Butter being beaten up with three 
or four Spoonfuls of fcalding hot SpringWater, in which an 
Anchovy has been diffolved, pour it on the Trouts, and Ice 
them be fcrved up. Garnifh with the Leaves of Strawber- 
ries, Parfley, ^c. 

After this Manner, Grailings, Perches, fmall Pikes or 
Jacks, Roaches and Gudgeons may be fry'd, their Scales 
being firfl fcraped off : And you may thus fry fmall Eels, 
when they are flea'd, gutted, wiped clean, and cut into 
Pieces of four or five Inches long; feveral Pieces of Salmon, 
or a Chine of it, may likewife be dreffed in the fame Man- 
ner. 

To boil Trouts. 

LE T the Trouts be wafh'd and dry'd with a clean Nap- 
kin ; then open t' ' li, and having taken out the Guts, 
with all the Blood, wipe them very cleaji on the Infide, 
without wafhing, arid give each three Scotches, with a Knife, 
to the Bone, only on one Side : After that pour into a Ket- 
tle, or Stew-pan, as much hard ilale Beer, with Vinegar, and 
a little V/hite Wine and Water, as will cover the Fifh ; then 
throw into the Liquor a good Quantity of Salt, a Handful 
©f fiiced Horfe-Fadilh Root, with a fmall Faggot of Parfley, 

G 3 Rofc- 



120 ^he Lady's Companion. 

.Rofcmary, Thyme, and Winter- favonry ; that done, fet the 
Fan over a quick Wood Fire, and let the Liquor boil up 
to the Height before you put in your Fifh ; then flip them in 
one by one, that they may not fo cool the Liquor as to make 
it fall : While the Fifh are boiling, beat up Butter for the 
Sauce, with a little of the Liquor, and as foon as it is enough, 
drain off the Liquor, lay your Trouts in a Dilh, and pour 
melted Butter upon them, brewing them plentifully over 
with fcraped Horfe-radifh, and a little powdered Ginger : 
Garnifh the Sides of the Difh with fliced Lemon, and fend it " 
to Table. 

In the fame Manner you may drefs Grailings, Carp, 
Bream, Roach, and Salmon, only they are to be fcaled» 
v/hich mull be done very lightly and carefully with a Knife. 
A Pike may alfo be thus dreffed, the Slime being tiril fcoured 
oft with Water and Salt. 

To f'juje Trouts. 

TA K F> a Quart of Water, a Pint of White Wine, and 
two Cjuarts of White Wine Vinegar, with Pepper, 
Salt, Nutmeg, Cinnamon, and Mace, an Onion ftuck with 
Cloves, a little Lemon-peel, and a Faggot of fweet Herbs ; 
let thefe boil together a little while, and put in your Trouts, 
and boil them according to their Bignefs ; then take them 
out of the Liquor to be cold, and put your Soufe Liquor in- 
to a Stone Jar to cool : If 'tis not fharp add more Vinegar, 
-and a little Salt, and keep your Fifli therein ; if you would 
have them, hot, you may take them out of the above Soufe, 
when enough, and take for Sauce a little of the Liquor, fomxC 
White Wine, an Anchovy wafhed clean, and fom.e Mace, 
with Oyllers and Shrimps, and Butter kneaded in Flour. 
Garnilh v.ith fried Smelts, and fiiced Lemon, and ferve it. 

You may do Salm.on, Pike, Mullet, and moll other Filh 
the fame Way ; only if you drefs them to eat hot immedi- 
ately, you rnay alter the Sauce if you pleafe. 

To make Virginia Trouts. 

TAKE pickled Herrings, cut off their Heads, and lay 
the Bodies two Days and Nights in Water ; then wafh- 
ing them well, feafon them with Pepper, Cinnamon, Cloves, 
Mace, and a little red Saunders : Afterwards lay them clofe 
in a Pot, with a little chopp'd Onion llrew'd over them, 
and caft between ever Layer ; wherx you have done thus put in 

a Pmt 



'The Lady's Companion. 127 

a Pint of Claret, cover them with a double Paper ty'd on the 
Pot, and fet them in an Oven : They are to be eaten cold . 

To pickle Trouts. 

PU T all Sorts of Spice, and a Faggot of fweet Herb?, 
into as much Water and Vinegar as v/ili cover ihe Fifh ; 
boil the Fifn in them till it is enough, let it lie in the Pickle 
till you are difpofed to eat it. 

7o niarinaie Trouts. 

FR y them in a good Quantity of clarified Butter, Sewet,, 
^ or Oil, till they are crifp, then lay them a draining in 
a Difh till they are cold ; then rnake a Marinade of White 
Wine and Vinegar, of each an equal Quantity; put in Salt^ 
whole Pepper, Nutmeg, Cloves, IVlace, fliced Ginger, Wln- 
ter-lavoury, Sweet Marjoram, Thyme, Rofemary, a Bay- 
leaf, or a Couple of Onions ; boil thefe together for a Quar- 
ter of an Hour, put your Fifli into a Stew-pan, pour the Ma- 
rinade to them hot, put in a Pint of Oil, and llice in a Le- 
mon-peel : It will keep a Month covered with the Liquor ; 
ferve them, with Oil, Vinegar, and Lemon. 

To ftc'w Trouts. 

]' T A V I N G put three or four Trouts in a Diih, with 
71 better than a Quarter of a Pint of White Wine, and a 
Quarter of a Pound of Butter, with a little whole Mace ; thea 
mince Thym.e, Winter-favoury, and Parfley together, and 
put to them \ let them flew a Quarter of an Hour, then 
mince the Yolk of an Egg, and put in your Trouts ; w hen. 
they are enough difh them, lay the Herbs on them ; pour the 
Liquor over them, and ferve them up ; Garnilh with Barber- 
ries and Capers chopp'd. 

Another U^ay. 

WA S H them in Vinegar and Water, let them lie in 
it a little while ; then put them into a Pan with a 
Cover ; add four or five Spoonfuls of Vinegar, as much 
White Wine, a good Quantity of Salt, a Stick of Cinnamon, 
■feme whole Mace, a few Cloves, fome Sorrel, and a P'aggot 
of fweet Herbs ; fet this Pan into a Kettle of boiling Waters, 
and keep it boiling for three Hours. 

Thus may you drefs Salmon, Carps, Eels, ^c. 

G A. Anothit 



128 ne Lad Y^s CoMP A Nio N. 

A'lother Way of drejftr.g Trouts. 

YO U muft take two or three good Trouts, gut them 
at the Gills, fcrape them, and wipe them well ; then 
lay them on a DrefTer- board, heat a Fire-fhovel red-hot, 
pafs it over them lightly feveral Times to harden them ; 
then lard them with Slices of Bacon in Rows : Garnifli the 
Bottom of a Stew-pan with Bards of Bacon, lay the Trouts 
upon them, cover the Stew-pan, put Fire over and under 
it ; you mall flir them now and then, to keep them from 
ftieking ; when they are well coloured, take away the Bacon, 
lay the Fi(h to foak in good Gravy, a little White Wine, 
and an Onion fluck with Cloves ; ilew thefe gently together, 
and feafon them in the Stew-pan : When a pretty deal of 
the I jquor is itewed away, and the Trouts are near enough, 
pui Muihrooms, Truffles, and other Garnitures in Seafon, 
into Gammon EfTence, and make a Ragoo ; then difli your 
riih, take away the Fat, pour your Ragoo about them ; 
garnifh withAvtichcak Bottoms, or fmall Trout CoUops, well 
larded, fo i>ii\t them np. 

1o broil Trouts. 

GU T them, wafh them, and dry them in a Cloth, 
fprinkle them with melted Butter and Salt, then lay 
them en a Gridiron, over a gentle Fire, and turn them 
often : Make a Sauce of Butter, Salt, Pepper, Nutmeg, a 
little Flour, a little Vinegar and Water, an Anchovy, and 
a few Capers ; keep moving thefe in a Stew-pan over the 
Fire till it becomes pretty thick, then difh your Fifli, pour 
the Sauce over them, and ferve them. up. 

You may aifo ferve them with a Ragoo of Cucumbers, 
cr of Muihrooms, and you may bind the Sauce with a Cul- 
lis of CrawMi, but then you mull put no Capers in the 
fiauce. 

Another Way, 

WHEN you have gutted, wafhed, and dry'd your 
Trouts, cut off their Heads and Tails, and fprinkle 
them with melted Butter, Pepper, and Salt; lay fome green 
Fennel on your Gridiron, and placing the Trouts upon it, 
broil them over a llack Fire : Make a Sauce of fome Cives 
and Parfley fhred, then put them in a Stew-pan, with fome 
Butter, and let it over a Stove ; add a little Fifh-Brcth, and 
when near wafted away, two Anchovies, with a few Capers; 

« bind 



frZ^c" La D y's Com p A N I ON. 129 

bind it with a Fifh Cullis, pour it over your Trouts, fo fervc 
them. 

To drefs Haddock the Dutch Way. 

BEING fcaled and gutted, gafh them with a fiiarp 
Knife into the Back bone on both Sides, and throw thenv 
into cold Water and Vinegar. They will boil in lefo than 
half an Hour, but that mull be according to the Bignefs, only 
boil them till they will come from the Bone ; then, for your 
Sauce take Turnips, cut them as fmall as Yolks of Eggs, 
and boil them tender in Water and Salt. In Holland they 
boil them with the Fi(h, and they take very little more boil- 
ing than the Fifli, becaufe they are better than ours ; but if 
you boil EvgliJhTmmV'S, you muft boil them a little before yoa 
put in your Fiih ; but you mull not boil your Turnips la 
tender as if they were to eat with Beef or Mutton ; then 
drain them from the Liquor, and put two or three Dozen of 
Turnips, according to the Bignefs of your Difh, into a 
Found of drawn Butter, and a little minced Parfley, fo pur. 
your Haddocks into the Difh, and Sippets under them ; and 
pour your Turnips and Sauce over them ; throw a little 
minced Parfley about your Difh, fo ferve it. You may tfo 
V/hitings, or Soals, the fame Way. 

To broil Haddocks. 

SCALE them, gut and wafh them clean, do not rip 
open the Belly, but take the Guts out with the Gilk, 
dry them in a clean Cloth very well ; if there be any Koc 
or Liver, take it out, but put it in again : Flour them well, 
and have a clear good Fire : Let your Gridiron be hot and 
clean, lay them on, turn them quick two or three Times 
for fear of llicking ; then let one Side be enough, and turn 
the other Side ; when that is done, lay them in your Diflj, 
;ind have plain Butter in a Cup. 

They eat finely falted a Day or two before they are dref • 
fed, and hung up to dry, or boiled with Egg Sauce. A'.^v- 
cc'jl'e is a famous Place for falted Haddocks j they come in 
Barrels, and keep a great while. 

To make Water- Soochey. 

TAKE fome of the fmalleil Plaice, or Flounders, yo'i 
can get, wafh them clean, cut the Fins clofc, ]-!;t 
them in a Stew-pan ; put jufl Water enough to boil them in, 
a little Salt, and a Bunch of Parfley : When they are enough^ 

lesti 



1 30 The Lady's Companion. 

fend them to Table in a deep Dilli, with the Liquor to keep 
them hot, have Pariley and Butter in a Cup. 

To roaj} a Chub. 

SCALE your Chub, vvalh it well, and take out the 
Guts ; make a little Hole as near the Gills as you can, 
and cleanfe the Throat ; afterwards, having put fome fweet 
Herbs into the Belly, tie the Whole with two or three Splin- 
ters to the Spit, and roafl it, bailing the fame often with 
Vinegar, or Verjuice ancl Butter, mixed with good Store of 
Salt : By this Means, the watery Hum.our, with which all 
Chubs abound, is eifeftually dried up. A Tench may be 
drelled after the fame Manner. 

To broil a Chub. 

AFTER having fcaled your Chub, cut off its Tail and 
Fins, wafli it clean, and .flit it through the Middle j 
then give it two or three Cuts, or Scotches on the Back, 
with a Knife, and broil it on Wood Coals ; all the Time it 
is broiling, bafle it with fweet Butter, mingled with a good 
deal of Salt, and a little Thyme Ihred very fmall. 

To boil a Chub. 

YOU mull fet a Kettle over the Fire, with Vinegar and 
Vv^ater, fo much as will cover the Fifh, and put Fennel 
therein, with good Store of Salt : As foon as the Water boils, 
f.ip in your Chub, being iirft fcaled, gutted, and cleanfed 
about the Throat : When it is enough, take it out, lay it on 
a Board to drain, and after an Hour's lying thus, pick all the 
Fiih from the Bones : Then turn it into a Pewter Difn, fet 
it over a Chafing-difh of Coals with melted Butter, and fend 
it very hot to Table. 

To cure^ ox pickle i Sturgeons froTn Hamburgh, 

TA K E a Sturgeon, gut it, and clean it very well within 
Side with Salt and Water, and in the fame Manner 
clean the Outlide, wiping both very dry with coarfe Cloths, 
witaout taking any of the great Scales from it : Then take 
off the Head, the Fins, and Tail ; and if there is any Spawn 
jn it, fave it to be cured for Cavier ; when this is done cut 
vour Fifh into fmall Pieces of about four Pounds each, and 
take out the Eones as clean as poffible, and lay them in 
Salt and Water for twenty-four Hours, then dry them well 
with coarfe Cloths, and iuch Pieces as want to be rolled up, 

tie ■ 



^he Lad y's Com PA N ION. 131 

tie them clofe with Bafs Strings, that is, the Strings of Bark <> 
which coinpole the Bafs Mats, fuch as the Gardeners nfe, 
for that b ing fiat, like Tr.pe, will keep the Fifh clofe in the 
boiling, which would otherwife break, if it was tied with 
Packthread -, ilrew fome Salt over the Pieces, and let them 
lie there three Days, then provide a Piece of Wicker made 
fiat, and wide as the Copper, or Cauldron, you boil your 
Filh in, with two or three Strings tied to the Edges, the 
Ends of which fhould hang over the Edges of the Copper : 
The Pans we generally boil our Fifh in, are generally flial- 
low and very broad ; then make the following Pickle, ws;. 
one Gallon of Vinegar to four Gallons of Water, and to 
that Quantity put four Pounds of Salt ; when this boils, put 
in your Fifli, "take care to fkim off the Oil as it boils, and 
keep fupplying the Liquor with hot Water as it boils away, 
or elfe the Sturgeon will be rufty ; when it is boiled enough, 
take it out, and lay it in fmgle Pieces, upon Hurdles, to 
drain, or upon fuch Boards as will not give an extraordinary 
Tafte to the Fifii ; fome will boil in this Pickle a Quarter 
of a Pound of whole black Pepper. 

When your Firti is quite cold, lay it in clean Tubs, which 
are called .Kitt'^, and cover it with the Liquor it was boiled 
in, and clofe it up to be kept for Ufe. 

\i at any Time you perceive the Liquor to grow mouldy* 
or begin to mother, pafs it through a Sieve, add fome freili 
Vinegar to it, and boii it j and when it is quite cold, walh 
your Fifh in fome of it, and lay your Pieces afrcfh in the Tub, 
covering them with Liquor as before, and it will keep good 
feveral Months : This is generally eaten with Oil and Vine- 



To f rep are the Ca^vier^ or Spaavn of the Sturgeon. 

WA S H it well with Vinegar and Water, and then i?f 
it in Salt and Vv'atertvvo or three Days j then'bou it 
in frefh Water and Salt ; and v/hen it is cold put it up^ for 
Ufe : This is eaten upon Toafts of Whine Bread, with a 
little Oil. 

To roaji a "Piece of freJJy Sturgeon. 

GE T a Piece of freih Sturgeon of about eight or ten 
Pounds ; let it lie in Water and Salt fix or eight' 
Hours, with its Scales on ; then fallen it on the Spit, and^ 
bade it well with Butter for a Quarter of an Hour, and after' 
that drudge it with grated Bread, Flour, forae Nutmeg, a^ 

little 
s 



1^2 The Lady's Companion-. 

I little Mace, powdered Pepper, Salt, and rome fvveet Herbs 
dry'd and powderM, continuing drudging and bailing it till 
it is enough ; then ferve it up with the fo; lowing Sauce, -viz, 
one Pint of thin Gravy and Oyfter-liquor, withVome Horfe- 
radifh, Lemon-peel, a Bunch of fweet Kerbs, fom-e whole 
Pepper, and a few Blades of Mace, with a whole Onion, an 
Anchovy, a Spoonful or two of Liquid Catchup, or fome 
Liquor of pickled Walnuts, with half a Pint of White 
Wine J ftrain it off, and put as much Butter as will thicken 
it ; to this put Cyfters parboiled, Shrimps or Prawns pick'd, 
or tire Infide of a Crab, which will make the fame Sauce 
very rich ; then garn-fh vvith fry'd Oyfters, Lemon fliced, 
butter'd Crabs, and fry'd Bread cut in handfome Figures, 
and pickled Mufhrooms. 

Note^ If you have no Catchup, you m. ay ufe Mufhroom 
Gravy, or fome of the Travelling Sauce mentioned in this 

' Book, or elfe a fmall Tea Spoonful of the dry Pocket. 

1 Sauce. 

To roajl a Fillet- or Collar of Sturgeon. 

TA K E a Piece of frefli Sturgeon, gut it, take out the 
Bones, and cut the fielhy Part in Length, about {Qvtxi 
, or eight Inches ; then provide fome Shrimps, chopp'd very 
Kmall, with Oyfters, fome Ci-umbs of Bread, and fuch Sea- 
' foning of Spice as you like, with a little Lemon-peel grated ; 
when this is done, butter one Side of your Fifh, and ftrew 
fome of your Mixture upon it ; then begin to roll it up as 
rclofe as porsTible, and vvhen the iirft Piece is rolled up, then 
roll upon that another, prepared as before, and bind it round 
with a narrow Fillet, leaving as much of the Filh apparent 
as may be ; but you muft remark, that the Roll fhould not 
be above four Inches and a half thick \ for elfe one Part 
would be done enough before the Infide was hardly warmed; 
therefore, we have fometimes parboiled the infide Roll be- 
for« we begin to roll it. 

When it is at the Fire, bafte it well v/ith Butter, and 
drudge it with Mi^^ Rafpings of Bread. Serve it with the 
fame Sauce as diredled for the former. 

A Piece of frejh Sturgeon boiled, 

TAKE a Rand of Sturgeon, and prepare as much Li- 
quor to boil it in as will cover it ; that is, take a Pint 
. of Vinegar to about two Quarts of Water, a Stick of Horfe- 
ladiih, two or three Bits of Lemon-peel, fome whole 

Pepper,. 



ne Lady's Companion. 153 

Pepper, a Bay-leaf or two, and a fmall Handful of Salt, boil 
your Fifli in this till it is enough, and ferve it with the fol- 
lowing Sauce. 

Melt a Pound of Butter, then add fome Anchovy Liquor, 
fome Oyfter Liquor, White Wine, fome Catchup boiled to- 
gether, with whole Pepper, and Mace ftrained ; put to this 
the Body of a Crab, and ierve it with a little Lemon-juice. 
You may likewife put in iome Shrimps, the Tails of Lob- 
flers cut to Pieces, dewed Oyilers, or Crawfifh, cut into 
fmall Pieces. Garnilh with pickled Mufhrooms, and roalt- 
ed, or fry'd, Oyilers, Lemon fliced, and Horfe-radiih 
fcraped. 

fo fry Sturgeon. 

TA K E a Rand of frefh Sturgeon, and cut it into Slices 
about half an Inch thick, hafh it, and fry it brown in 
clarify'd Butter ; when it is fry'd it will look as if it was rib- 
bed ; then take up the Sturgeon, and clean the Pan ; and 
put in fome Claret, Salt, an Anchovy, and beaten Saffron, 
put in your Sturgeon, fry it again in thefe, and when half 
the Liquor is wafted, put in a Piece of Butter, Nutmeg, and 
Ginger grated* and Lemon minced ; rub the Difh with a 
Clove of Garlick, dilh it, garnifh the Dilh with Lemon, 

^0 hi oil Sturgeon. 

BROIL your Sturgeon either in a whole Rand, or cut 
into Slices an Inch thick ; fait them, fteep them in 
fweet Oil and Wine Vinegar, broil them on a gentle Fire, 
and baftc them with the Oil and Vinegar that they were 
ileeped in, with Sprigs of Rofemary, Thyme, and Parfley ; 
when, it is broiled, ferve it up with the Dripping it was 
bafVed with, and fome of the Branches of Rofemary : Or 
you may balle it with Butter, and ferve it up with Butter 
and Vinegar, beaten up with Slices of Lemons, or Juice of 
Orange. 

To drefs Sturgeon in Haricot ni^itb Turnips. 

BOIL your Sturgeon in Water, with Salt, Pepper, 
Cloves, Onions, and Thyme, and you may pour in 
fome Broth, and then you mull fry your Sturgeon brown 
with Lard ; then you mufl clear it from the Fat, and put 
it into a Cullis that you have ready prepared, with Turnips ' 
and a little Gammon of Bacon cut into Slices, or chopp'd 

&iall: 



1 34 The L A D y's Companion. 

fmall •. It may be ferved with Lemon-juice, and fet out with 
Marinade, or fome other Garniture. 

To diefs Sturgeon a la Sante yianehout. 

CU T your Sturgeon into thick Slices, and ftew them 
leifurely in Milk, White Wine, a little reeked Lard, 
with a Bay leaf, and all well feafoned with the ufual Sea- 
fonings ; then take them out, drudge them with grated Bread, 
and broil them on a Gridiron; and ferve.them up upon a 
Sauce of Anchovies, Capers, Chibbols, and Parfley, ihred 
a-part, good Gravy, a Clove of Garlick, and a Drop of 
Oil. 

Tq marinate Sturgeon. 

LE T your Sturgeon be he^}^, cut it into Joles and Rands, 
walh it well, wipe it dry, flour it, and fry it in four 
Gallons of Rape Oil clarified ; when it is fried brown and 
crifp, put it into Trays, then pack your Sturgeon in them, 
in the fame Manner tnat you do boiled Sturgeon that is kept 
in Pickle, with two Gallons of White Wine, and three Gal- 
lons of White Wine Vinegar, with half a Dozen Handfuls 
of Salt, three Ounces of fliced Ginger, fix Ounces of whole 
Pepper, and four Ounces of whole Mace -, put the Sturgeon 
into your Cafes or VeiTels, pour the Pickle upon them ; and 
when you ferve it, do it with fome of its own Fickle, the 
Spices on it, and Slices of Lemon. 

To foiije Sturgeon. 

DR A W the Sturgeon, and divide it down the Back in 
equal Sides and Rands, put it into a Tub with Water 
and Salt, walh and cleanfe it well, bind it up with Tape or 
Bafs ; and boil it in Water, Vinegar, and Salt, but take care 
not to boil it too tender, take it up, and lay it to cool, then 
pack it up clofe with the Liquor it was boiled in. 

To fnake V/elfh Sturgeon. 

SE A S ON a Leg of I'eef with Salt, white Pepper, beaten 
Mace, Sweet Marjoiani^ Vv^inter fr.voury, Thyme, Pen- 
ny-royal, and Parfley, fhred fmall j fome 1 i^mon-peel, and 
a fmall Onion ; bone a Ntac's Foot, and cut it into Dice, 
or Diamond-wife, and lay it fo together in the Pan ; put 
to it as much V/ater as will juil cover it, fet it in an Oven, 
and bake it till it is tender ; make a Dinner of it, then 
pick it all out of the Liquor, clean from th-? Bones, and 

when 



The L A D Y 's C O M P A NM N. 1 35 

when it is cold, ilired it very fmall with Beef Sewet ; then 
pound it in a Stone Mortar, and fqueeze it into a Venifon 
Tot, and put to it the Fat that came oit when it was firft 
baked, and fet it into a cool Oven for an Hour. 

Roaches broiled. 

BROIL the Roaches on a Gridiron after they have been 
foaked in Butter : Fry the Livers in a Pan with a little 
Butter, in order to be beaten in a Mortar, andpafled through 
the Strainer : Then put a Cullis to your Fifh, feafon'd with 
Salt, s'.hite Pepper, and Orange or Lemon-juice : Before 
they are drelTed rub the Dill'i with a Shalot, or a Clove of 
Garlick. 

To boil Roaches. 

SCALE, draw, vvaih, and cleanfe your Roaches well, 
wipe them dry with a Cloth, give them three or four 
Scotches with a Knife, to the Bone, only on one Side ; then 
put into a Stew pan as much frale Beer, Vinegar, and Water, 
with a little White Wine, as will cover the Filh : Then put 
in a Handful of Salt, a Bunch of Rofemary, Winter-favoury, 
Thyme, and Parfley, and a Handful of Horfe-radifh Root 
flic'd; then fet the Stew-pan over a quick Wooden Fire, and 
boil the Liquor up to a Height. 

To fry Roaches. 

GU T, fcale, and wafh them in Salt and Water, and 
wipe them clean with a Napkin ; then flour them, and 
fry them in frefh Butter till they are brown and cri;p ; then 
take them out; and lay them in a heated Diih ; fet them be- 
fore the Fire to keep ; pour off the Butter you fry'd them 
in ; then in other Butter fry Sage and Parfley crifp, and lay 
them on your Roaches. In the mean Time, lei. iome But- 
ter be beaten up, with a few Spoonfuls of fcaliing hot VVa- 
ter, in v/hich an Anchovy has been diflblved, and pour this 
Sauce over your Roaches : Garniili the Difli with Parfley 
and Strawberry-leaves, and ferve it up. 

To marinate Roaches. 

GET Roach-s, ileep th^m in Oil, Wine, and Lemon- 
juice, and other nfujJ Seafonings, then breaa ihem 
well, and bake them in a gentle OverCiy as chey ma/ take 
a fine Colour : Afterwards "they are to be neatly drei.ed in a 
Diih, and garnifliea with fried Bread, and green Parfley. 

■* Roaches 



13^ The La D y's Companion. 

Roaches en marinade. 

GU T your Roaches, cut oft their Heads, and take ofF 
fome Slices ; then put them in a Difh or Stew-pan, 
with fome Bay -leaves, feafoned with Pepper and Salt ] add 
the Juice of a Couple of Lemons, or elfd a Da:h of Vine- 
gar ; let them marinate for an Hour or two ; when mari- 
nated, take them out of the Marinade, and wipe them dry- 
between two Linen Cloths, fcrew them with Flour, and fry 
them in drawn Butter : When they are fried and pretty 
brown, take them out, and let them drain : Put a Napkin 
folded up in the Di(h, place them handfomely upon it, and 
ferve them up hot for Hors eC Oewvres. 

Roaches in Slices. 

GUT your Roaches, and fry them ,♦ then cut off their 
Heads, and take the Slices, which you may place in a 
Diih for an Entry, pouring over them a fmali Ragoo of 
Crawfifh or Oyllers, or elfe a white Sauce. 

To broil Shads. 

THESE Fifh are to be well fcaled and cut : After- 
wards, having rubbed them with Butter and Salt, broil 
them on a Gridiron, till they come to a fine Colour : They 
are to be diihed with Sorrel and Cream, adding Parfley, 
Chervil, Chibbol, Salt, Pepper, Nutmeg, and fweet Butter : 
They may alfo be ferved up with a Ragoo of Mulhrooms, 
or a brown Sauce with Capers : Or you may ferve it v^^ith 
Butter, Cives, and Parfley minc'd, and Capeis tofs'd up in 
a Sauce-pan, with the ufual Seafonings, and the Sauce thick- 
ened with the Liver of the Shad bruifed, or elfe with a Craw- 
fifh Cullis, or fome other meagre CuUis. 

To boil Shads. 

HAVING fcaled and cut them, let them boil in White 
Wine, with Vinegar, Salt, Pepper, Cloves, a Bay- 
leaf, Onions, and green Lemon, and fend them to Table on 
a N^apkin. 

To drefs a Shad au Court ■"Bouillon. 

AFTER having fcaled and fcored it, boil it in V/hite 
Wine, with a little Vinegar, Salt, Pepper, Bay-leaf, 
Onions ftuck with Cloves, Slices of Lemon, and a Lump of 

Butter 5 



T*/)^ L A D y's Companion. 137 

Butter ; when it is boiled, ferve it dry on a Napkin for a 
Diih of the firft Courfe. 

fo fry Smelts. 

LAY them to marinate in Vinegar, Salt, Pepper, Bay- 
leaves and Gives, then dry them well with a Lmnen 
Cloth, drudge them well with Flour, and very fine Crumbs 
of Bread, dry them, and ferve them up hot with fry'd Pari- 
ley, 

7o drefs Smelts au Court-Bouillon. 

WHEN you have laid them in a Stew-pan, put^ to 
them fome White Wine, fliced Lemon, Pepper, Salt 
and Bay-leaf; when they are enough, ferve them on a Nap- 
kin with green Parlley, or elfe with a Ramolade. 

^0 marinate Smelts. 

PU T a Quart of Sallad Oil into a Frying-pan, vvhen it 
is hot, put in the Smelts, and as it voiles fupply it with 
more ; and put in alfo fome Bay-leaves in the Oil the Filli 
was fry'd in, and put fome Claret into an Earthen Pan ; put 
the fry'd Leaves into the Bottom of it, and let fome of them 
lie above; flice an Ounce of Ginger and Mace, and an 
Ounce of Nutmeg ; put in fome White Wine and Cloves, 
and then put in your Filh, fo that the Bay-leaves and Spices . 
may cover them, and ferve them wdth Bay-leaves and 
Spices. 

to /len.v Smelts. 

YOUR ^meks being laid in a deep Dilh, put to them 
a Quarter of a Pint of White Wine, fome whole Pep- 
per, a little Thyme, Winter-favoury fhred fmali, and a Quar- 
ter of a Pound of Butter, with the Yolks of three or four 
Eggs minc'd, let them flew together, turn them now and 
then with the Fiih, and when they are enough, ferve them 
up on Sippets. Garnifh with pickled Barberries. 

Another Way to Jlenjj Smelts. 

PU T them in a Sauce-pan with Butter, White Wine» 
Nutmeg, fry'd Flour, and Pieces of green Lemon : Whea 
you ferve them up to Table, do it with Capers and Lemon- 
juice. 

Anothr * 



138 fhe Lady's Companion. 

Another Way 

YO U may fry them, and ferve them up in a Sauce of 
burnt Butter, diilblved Anchovies, white Pepper, and 
Orange -juice. 

Vv^eavers fic^^ved. 

TAKE fome Weavers, gut, wafh, and wipe them dry, 
put a Lump of Butter into a Stew-pan, with Parfley 
and green Onions, cut fmall, and feafoned with Pepper and 
Salt, fweet Herbs, and fine Spice ; then put in yourWeavers, 
placed upon hot Cinders, to take a Taile ; turn them now 
and then, place them handfomely in a Difh, or Baking-pan, 
and ftrew them both with Crumbs of Bread and Parmefan 
Cheefe ; fend them to the Oven to take a Colour ; when 
they are done, and well coloured, ferve them up hot, with 
Lemon-juice over them for an Entry. 

Weavers friea. 

GU T them, wafh, and wipe them, fiafh them on the 
Back, flour and fry them in clarified Butter ; when 
fried and well coloured, take them up, let them be drained, 
dilh them, garnifh with fried Parlley, and ferve them hot \ 
Or you may ferve them with a Caper-fauce, made as fol- 
lows : Melt a Bit of Butter in a Sauce-pan, brown it with 
a Pinch of Flour, then put irt Muflirooms, Cives, and Parfley, 
minc'd fmall ; add a little Fifli-Broth, Salt, and Pepper, then 
put in your fry'd Weavers, and let them fimmer together a 
little while : Then difli your Weavers, put fomc Capers into 
the Sauce, and fome Cullis of Crawiifli, or brown Cullis ; 
pour this over the Weavers, and ferve them up. 

To broil Weavers. 

GU T them, and vvaih them clean, dry them in a Cloth, 
flour them, then broil them, and have melted Butter 
in a Cup. They are fine Fifli, and cut firm. 

When you prepare them you mufl: take care not to hurt 
yourfelf with the two fharp Bones in the Head. 

Another Way. 

GU T, wafli, and 'diy them in a Cloth, fcore them on 
the Sides, rub them well over with Butter and Salt, lay 
them on a Gridiron over a gentle Fire, turn them often that 
they may take a good Colour. Blanch the Hearts of half a 

Score 



ne Lady's Companion. 139 

Score Lettuces in hot Water, put them m cold Water, then 
fqueeze them out with your Hand, one by one : Put a Piece 
of Butter about the Bignefs of an Egg into a Sauce-pan, put 
in a little Flour, and brown it ; keep moving it till it is fo : 
Cut the Lettuces in two, put them into the Sauce-pan, and 
when they have had four or five Turns, put in a little Fiih- 
Broth, with Salt, Pepper, and 'a Faggot of fweet Herbs, and 
let them fimmer a-vvhile over a flack Fire. When all is done 
enough, take off the Fat, put in fome Cullis of Crawhih, 
pour the Ragoo into your Difh, lay the Fifh upon it, and 
ferve away hot. 

You may alfo ferve them with a Cullis of Crawfifh, or an 
Anchovy Sauce, or with a Ragoo of Mulhrooms or Truffles. 

To drefs Weavers Tv//i) Ojjiers. 

GU T, wafli, and dry your Weavers in a Cloth ; then 
having put a Pint of White Wine, a little Fifli Broth, 
and Butter, into a Sauce-pan, feafon your Fifh with Salt, 
Pepper, and Spices j lay them handfomely in the Sauce-pan, 
with a Bay- leaf, two or three Slices of Lemon, a little Parf- 
ley, and a Couple of Onions ; then brcvv'n fom.e Butter with 
a little Flour in another Sauce-pan ; pour the Liquor from 
your Weavers into this Butter, make it juft boil ; then pour 
it back again into the Sauce-pan, to the Weavers, and let 
them flew in it. When they are ftew'd enough, drain them 
well, difh them, pour on them a Ragoo of Oyfters, which 
you are to prepare in the mean Time, as follows : Open your 
Oyllers, lay them in a Sieve to drain over a Pan to fave the 
Liquor : Brown a Piece of Butter in a Sauce-pan, with a 
Pinch of Flour, liirring it with a wooden Spoon, till it is 
brown ; then put in Bits of Crufts of Bread, as big as your 
Fingers, and then put in your Oyfters ; let them have five 
or fix Turns over a Stove, feafon them with Pepper, Cives, 
and Parfley i put to them fome of their own Liquor, and 
fome Fifh-Broth, of each a like Quantity, to moillen them; 
let them have a Heat over the Fire, but let them net boil. 

To roajl V/e avers. 

HAVING gutted, wafh'd, and dry'd them, lard them 
with Bits of Eel and Anchovies ; put them on Skew- 
ers, and fallen them to the Spit; roaft them, put a Quar- 
ter of a Pint of Fifh-Broth, and a little Vinegar into the 
Dripping-pan, with Salt, Pepper, Slices of Lemon, Slices of 
Onion and whole. Gives : Bafte them as they roaft with this 

Marinade. 



140 The Lady's Companion, 

Marinade. While they are roafting, make for them the 
Sauce following : Melt a Bit of Butter in a Sauce-pan, brown 
it with a Pinch of Flour, and having minc'd a Couple of 
Muflirooms, a raw Truffle, fome Gives and Parfley, each 
by themfelves, put into your Butter in the Sauce-pan firil 
the Gives, next the Parfley, then the Mufhrooms and 
Truffle : Let thefe have three or four Turns over the Fire, 
then put in a little Fifn-Broth, feafoned with Salt and Pep- 
per, to moiften them, and let them liand a little over a flack 
Fire to fimmer : When it is wafted away as much as you 
think convenient, put in a few Capers and an Anchovy, and 
add fome Gullis to thicken it ; then difh the Weavers, pour 
the Sauce over them, and ferve them up. 

H you pleafe you may l?.rd them with Bacon inftead of 
Eel and Anchovy, and then bafle them with the following 
Liquor ; put a little Efieace of Ham and Vinegar into your 
Dripping-pan, feafon'd with Salt, Pepper, Butter , Slices of 
Lemon and Onions fliced, and v/hole Gives. When thej 
are roafted enough, lay them in your Dilh, pour EiTence of 
Ham over them, and ferve hot. 

7o marinate a Dab or Sandling. 

CU T your Filh along the Back, to the End that the 
Pickle may penetrr.te the fam^e : When it is marinated 
bread it well with Chippings feafon'd, and bake it in aa 
Oven. Garnifh your Dilh with Petty -patties. 

Dab in a Sallad. 

LE T your Dab be boiled in a Pickle after the ufual 
Manner, and when cold, cut into Fillets, with ^ which 
you are to garnifh a Plate, and a fmall Sallad ; feafoning the 
Whole with Salt, Pepper, Vinegar, and Oil. 

Or you may drefs them with Anchovy Sauce, and ferve 
them up, when cold, on a Napkin, for Intermefs. You may 
alfo bake them in a Pye like Turbuts : Or you may leave 
your Dab entire, and ferve it up hot with white Sauce and 
Cream, for a Side difh. 

To Jienv Gudgeons. 

AFTER having put an equal Quantity of Wine and 
Water over a Fire in a deep Difli, put in a Race of 
Ginger (hred, a Nutmeg quartered, a little whole Mace, a 
little Salt, and a Faggot of Marjoram, Thyme and Parfley ; 
Ut thefe boil a little, then put in your Gudgeons ; put in 

fome 



^he L AD y's Co MP A N I ON. 141 

fome Butter, make them boil a-pace ; when they are enough, 
pour out all the Liquor into a Pipkin, and fet it on the Fire 
with the Spice and Herbs that were in before ; then mince 
a Handful of Parfley, with a little Thyme and Fennel, and 
boil them in the Filh-Brodi : Afterwards beat the Meat of 
a Couple of Crabs, the Carcafs of a Lobfter, the Yolks of 
three Eggs, with a Ladle of drawn Butter, and fome of the 
Fiili-Broth, and put it into the Fipkin, and keep liirring it 
till it thickens, then difh your Gudgeons on Sippets, pour 
your Sauce over them, and lerve them up. 

% bake a Lump, 

YO U may either flea your Lump, or not ; cut it in two 
Pieces, and part it on the Sides -, feafon it with Salt, 
Pepper, and Nutmeg ; lay it in the Pye ; lay on a Bay-leaf, 
or two, three or four Blades of Mace, and an Orange cut in 
Slices, Barberries, Grapes, Goofeberries, and Butter; clofe 
it up, bake it, liquor it with beaten Butter, 

To fry a Lump. 

FLEA the Lump, fplit it, divide it, and cut each Side 
into two Pieces ] feafon it with Salt, Pepper, and Nut- 
meg ; ^ry it in clarify 'd Butter, made very hot; difh it with 
Slices of Oranges, Barberries, Grapes, Goofeberries, and 
Butter. 

To roaji a Lump. 

FLEA it, and cieanfe it well on the Infide ; feafon it 
with Salt, Pepper, Mace, and Nutmeg ; put an Onion 
and Bay-leaf into the Belly of it ; rpaft it, and ferve it up 
with Butter and Slices of Lemon. 

To foufe Lumps. 

CLEAN, fcrape, and fcald your Lumps very well, boil 
them in their Skins ; then take the Tails of Lobfters, 
large Oyfters, Prawns, and the Yolks of hard Eggs, and 
mince them together with fweet Herbs ; then add to them 
grated Bread, Salt, Ginger, Mace, Cloves, and Nutmeg 
and, if you pleafe, an Anchovy for every Lump; put thefe' 
into the Bellies of the Lumps, and boil them in Vinegar, 
White Wine, Water, and Salt ; ferve them to the Table with 
fome of the Liquor. 



To 



142 *^he Lad y's Companion. 

To drefi Mackarel. 

GU T and w afli your Mackarel, then either flit or gafh 
them down the Back, that they may take the Seaibn- 
ing, then lay them a-while in Oil, Salt, Pepper, and Fen- 
nel ; then wrap them up in the Fennel ; lay them on a Grid- 
iron, and broil them : Make a Sauce for them of clarified 
Butter, fweet Herbs fnred very fmall, Salt, Nutmeg, Goole- 
berries. Fennel, a little Vineg.ir and Capers. 

Or you may ferve them up with clarified Butter, Salt, 
Pepper, a litcie Vinegar, and fry'd Parfley. 

They may alfo be I'erv'd in a Soop, being firft fry'd in cla- 
rify'd Butter, and then fet a fimmering in good Fi(li-Broth, 
or Broth of Herbs. Garnifh with a Ragoo of Muibrooins, 
and fome Capers. 

7q pidh Mackarel. 

F T E R having flit your Mackarel in Halves, take out 
the Roes, gut, clean, and ilrew Salt over them, and 
lay one on another, the Back of one to the Infide of another, 
ib let them lie two or three Hours ; then wipe 'every Piece 
clean from the Salt, and llrcw them over with beaten Pepper, 
and grated Nutmeg ; let them lie ;wo or three Hours longer ; 
tlien fry them well, take them out of the Pan, and lay 
them on coarfe Cloths to drain ; when cold put them in a 
Pan, and cover them over with a Pickle of Vinegar boiled 
with Spice, and a little Bit of Lemon-peel, when it is cold. 

Another Way. 

CUT your Mackarel in Pieces, feafon them as for Pot • 
ting, and rub it in well, fry j:hem in Oil, or clarified 
Butter ; then lay them on Straw by the Fire to drain ; when 
cold put them in Vinegar, and cover them with Oil, dry 
them before you feafon them : They will keep, and are ex- 
tremely good. 

% broil Mackarel. 

A V I N G drawn the Mackarel at the Gills, wafli and 
drythem, then fait and broil them with Mint and green 
Fennel on a foft Fire, and balte them with Butter and Vine- 
gar, or Oil and Vinegar, with Rofemary, Thyme, and 
Parfley ; difli it up with beaten Butter, Slices of Lemon or 
Orange. 

They 



The Lady's Companion. 143 

They may be done with a StufTing made of Parfley, But- 
ter,. Pepper, Salt, Crumbs of Bread, Nutmeg, and the Liver, 
mixed together, with the Yolk of an Egg, and put into the 
Belly where the Roe came out. 

Another Way to broil Mackarel. 

CUT off their Heads, gut them, wafn them clean, pull 
out the Roe at the Gills, boil it in a little Water, then 
bruife it with a Spoon, beat up the Yolk of an Egg with a 
little Nutmeg, a little Lemou-peel cut fine, a little Thyme, 
fome Panley boiPd, and cnopp'd fine, a little Pepper and 
Salt, and a few Crum.bs of Bread -, mix all well together, 
and fill the Pvlackarel ; flour it well, and broil it neatly ; let 
your Sauce be plain Butter, with a little Catchup, or Walnut 
Pickle. 

To ronfi Mackarel. 

ROAST them with Fennel, after they are roafted open 
them, and take out the Bone ; then make a good Sauce 
with Butter, Parfley, and Goofeberries, all feaibned ; foak 
your Mackarel, a v^ry little, with your Sauce, then ferv^e 
them hot. 

7o fry Maids. 

AFTER you have fkinn'd them, put them into boiling 
Water, feafoned with Salt, let them lie a-while, then 
take them out, and dry them with a Coth, flour them, beat 
the Yolks of half a Score of Eggs, and the Whites of four, 
with a little Canary, Flour, Salt, Ginger, Nutmeg, and a 
little Parfley boiled green, and minced fmall, beat them till 
the Batter is pretty thick ; put clarify 'd Butter into a Fr) ing- 
pan, make it hot, dip your Maids in the Batte^i", and fry 
them brown and crifp i difli. them, let the Sauce be Butter, 
Vinegar, the Livers of the Fifli, and Nutmeg, beaten toge- 
ther; fry a good Quantity of Parfley crifp and green, and 
fl:rew all over the Fifti. 

To bake Gurnets. 

RAW them, cut off their Heads ; rub a Tart-pan or 

Difli with Butter, feafoned with Pepper, Salt, fome 

Spice, Cives, flired Parfley, and favoury Herbs ; lay the 
Gurnets iii the Tart- pan or Difli, and lay the fame Seafon- 
ing over . s you did under, then fprinkle melted Butter 
over them, and drudge them over with Bread crumbled 
very line, put them into an Oven. Againft they are 

baked. 



144 ^^^ Lady*s Companiont. 

baked, prepare a hafh'd Sauce for them thus : TakeMufh- 
rooms, Truffles, Gives, and Parfley, fhred them, feafon them 
with Salt and Pepper, moiilen them with Fifh-Broth, and 
fet them a fimmering over a gentle Fire : When it is enough, 
thicken it with a CuUis of Crawfifh ; when your Gurnets are 
baked brown, pour this Sauce into your Difh, lay the Gur- 
nets round it, and ferve them for the firft Courfe. 

To broil Gurnets ^cvith Anchavy Sauce. 

CU T off their Heads, dip them in melted Butter and 
Salt, and broil theni over a Fire not too fierce : Put 
frefh Butter, a little Flour, and a whole Leek, into a Sauce- 
pan, feafon with Salt, Pepper, and Nutmeg, moiilen it with 
Vinegar and Water, put in a Couple of Anchovies, keep it 
continually Ihaking over the Fire till the Filh are enough, 
diih them, pour on the Sauce, and {trwt them hot. 

To broil Gurnets n.L'ith Crawfifh Cullis. 

THIS is done the fame Way as with Anchovies, only 
leaving out the Anchovies, and pouring fome Craw- 
filli Culiis on the Fiih when difhed up. 

To boil a Garnet. 

DR A W It, and wafh it well, boil it in Water and Salt, 
and a Bundle of fweet Herbs ; when it is enough, take 
it up, and put it into a Dilh, with Sippets under it, over a 
Chaf.ng-diih of Coals, then make a SaiKC of Verjuice, But- 
ter, Nutmeg, Pepper, and the Yolks of two Eggs, and pour 
over it, and ferve away. Garnifh as you pleafe. 

To boil Breams. 

HAVING wafli'd and dry'd them v/ith a Cloth, theu 
open them, gut them, wipe their Infides clean with a 
Cloth, but do not wafh the Infides ; give them three Scores 
with a Knife to the Bone on one Side only ; boil them in as 
much Water, White Wine, hard ftale Beer, and Vinegar, as 
will jufl cover them j feafon with a good Handful of Salt, 
a Faggot of Winter-favoury, Rofemary, Thyme, and Parf- 
ley, and a Handful of Horfe-radifli Rogt fcraped ; put them 
not in till the Liquor boils up to the Height. For the Sauce, 
beat up Butter with a little of the Liquor j drain your Fifh, 
difh them, pour the Sauce over them, fcrape over them 
Horfe-radifh and powdered Ginger. Garnifh the Difh with 
Slices of Lemon, and ferve it up. 

To 



^he Lady's Companion. 145 

To broil a Bream. 

GE T a Bream, fcale and draw it, notch the Side of it, 
dip it in melted Butter, lay it on a Gridiron, and bafte 
it frequently with melted Butter ; make a brown Sauce with 
Anchovies,' Capers, Cives, and Parfley, tofs'd up in a Sauce- 
pan with a little Butter ; then put in a little Fifh-Broth, and 
thicken it with a CuUis that is to be thrown on the Fiih, but 
do not put the Anchovies in till you are going to ferve ; 
when it is broiled enough, ferve it up with the aforefaid 
Sauce. 

You may alfo ferve it up with a white Sauce, made as you 
will fee in the Receipt for a broil'd Barbel : Vou may alf<» 
ferve it with a good Sauce of Herbs. 

To Jie'w a Bream. 

HAVING fcaled and wafhed your Bream well, pre- 
fer ve the Blood to ftew it in, put to it Red Wine, two 
or three Slices of a Race of Ginger, the Pulp of three Quar- 
ters of a Found of Prunes boiled, and llrained into the Broth, 
Salt, Vinegar, a Couple of Anchovies, feme Root of Horfc- 
radifh ilanip'd and ftrain'd, and fome fweet Herbs j let there 
be no more Liquor than will juil cover your Fiih and other 
Ingredients ; when it is enough, make a Sauce Vv'ith Butter, 
a little of the Bream Liquor ; beat them up together, then 
difh your Fiih, pour the Sauce upon it, garniih the DiHi 
with Oranges, Lemons, and Barberries, and ferve it up. 

Another Way to Jieuu a Bream. 

HA ^'' 1 N G fcaled and cleanfed your Bream, put it int© 
a Stew-pan, cither Whole or in Pieces, ilevv it in White 
V/ine, Water, and Beer Vinegar, as much as will juft cover 
it, with Salt, Pepper, a Bay-leaf, whole Cloves, and Mace, 
a Faggot of Rofemary, Winter fa voury, Sweet-m.arjoram, 
Thyme, Parfiey, an Onion cut in Halves, and fom.e Butter : 
When it has ftewed enough, diih it on Sippets, with Spice, 
and fome Lemon ; beat up Butter with fome of the Liquor, 
and pour over it : Garniih it with grated Brea^, <^c, and 
ferve it up. 



VCL. I, H fg 



145 T]y^ Lad y's C OM PA N I ON. 

To fry Whitings. 

WASH and gut your Whitings, then fldn them, and 
turn their Tails into their Mouths, to lie round; fea- 
fon them with Salt and Pepper ; lleep them in Vinegar, flcur 
them, and dip them in Batter, then fry them. 

To dfffs Whitings the Dutch IVay. 

SCALE and gut your Whitings, gadi them in the Back- 
bone with a Knife, on both Sides, and throw them into 
cold Water ; let them lie an Hour, then boil them in Wa- 
ter, Vinegar, and Salt; tlien for your Sauce take Turnips, 
and cut them in Pieces about the Bignefs of Yolks of Eggs, 
and boil them tender in Water and Salt, then drain them, 
and put them inro drawn Butter, and Farlley, mmced hne; 
then dilh your Whitings on Sippets, and pour your Turnips 
and Sauce over them, frrew Ibme Ihrcd Parlley about the 
Difn, and ferve it up. 

Ycu may drefs Soals the fame Way. 

To pic'vj Whitings. . 

PUT into deep a Difh an equal Quantity of White Wine 
and Water, put in a Blade or two of Mace, a Nutmeg 
quartered, a Race of Ginger ficed, and a Faggot of fweet 
Herbs, and Salt j fet it over a Fire, and make it boil a little 
while i then lay in your Whitings in the Order you intend 
to ferve them, put in fome Butter, make them boil pretty 
fail i when they are boiled enough, pour away all the Li- 
cjuor from them into a Pipkin, and 'let it on the Fire, with 
the Spice and fvveet Kerbs that were in it before ; mince a 
Hvandful of Parfiey with a little Thyme and Fennel, and put 
them into the hilh-Broth; then take the Carcafs of a Lob- 
flerf, with the Meat of two Crabs, and the Yolks of three 
Eggs, and a Ladleful of drawn Butter; beat all thefe well 
together with fome of the Liquor, put them into the Fifh- 
Broth, and ilir theai together till it thickens ; then dilh the 
W^hitings m anotht;r Dilh upon Sippets, piur on yjur Sauce, 
and kj ve it up : After the fame Manner you may drefs 
S*iieks and Gudgeons. 

Another Way. 

SCRAPE and waPn your V/hitings, fiit them down the 
Back, cut off their Heads, take out the Bones, and 
fpread them on a Table or Dieiler, and lay a good Fiih 

Farce 



the Lady's Companion. 147 

Farce over them, and roll them up, and flew them in good 
Fifli-Broth, feafon'd with Salt, Pepper, Spices, Nutmeg, 

To boil Whitings do them after the Manner of boiling 
Flounders or Plaice. 

^0 drefs frefl} Herrings. 

GU T them through the Gills, wafh them, rub them 
over with melted Butter, drudge them with Crumbs of 
Bread, and broil them on a Gridiron : Make your Sauce of 
Vinegar, Butter, Salt, Pepper, and Muftard. Or elfe yoii 
may brown fome Butter, and fhred fome fvveet Herbs very 
fmall, and put into it; feafon with Vinegar, Salt, Pepper, 
Anchovies, and Capers. 

To lake Herrings. 

TA K E an hundred Herrings, put them into a Pan, 
and cover them with three Parts Water and one Part 
Vinegar, with a good deal of All fpice, fome Cloves, a 
Bunch of fweet Herbs, two whole Onions, and a fev/ Bay- 
leaves, tie them down clofe, and bake them ; when the/ 
come out of the Oven, heat a Pint of Red Wine fcalding 
hot, and put to them, then tie them down again, and let 
them ft'and four or five Days before you open them, ard they 
will be very firm and fine. 

Another Way to hake Herrings. 

GE T fome Plerrings, wafh them, and flrew them with 
Salt, put them into a deep glazed Pot, feafon them, 
with whole Pepper, Mace, Onions, and Bay-leaves to your 
Talte ; pour as much good Vinegar to them as will cover 
them, then tie ftrong Brown Paper over the Pot they are 
in, and let them ftand all Night in the Oven with Bread. 
They will keep good a Month at leaH. 

7o broil Herrings. 

SCALE them, gut them, cut off their Heads, walk 
them clean, ^ry them in a Cloth, flour them, and broil 
them, but firft icore them acrofs with your Knife ; take their 
Heads and mafh them, boil them in Small Beer or Ale, v/itli 
a little whole Pepper and Onion : Let it boil a Quarter of 
an Hour, then llrain it, thicken it with Butter and Flour, 
and a good deal of Muftard : Lay the Fifh in the DiCi, and 
H 2 pow 



i48 The Lad y's Com pa n i o n. 

pour the Sauce into a Bafon, or plain melted Butter and 
Muflard, 

To fry Herrings. 

SCALE them, gut them, cut off their Heads, wafhthem 
clean, dry them in a Cloth, flour them, and fry them in 
Butter ; have ready a good many Onions peelVi and cut thin. 
Fry them of a light Brown with the Herrings ; lay the Her- 
rings in your Dilh, and the Onions rourd, with Butter and 
Murtard in a Cup. They mufl be done with a quick Fire. 

To diefi Red Herrings njcith Cabbage. 

BOIL your Cabbage tender, then put it into a Sauce- 
pan, and chop it with a Spoon ; put in a good Piece of 
Buttc^r, let it ll:ew, ll rring it leit ir Ihould burn : Take Ibme 
lied Herrings and fpiit them open, and toail them before the 
Fire till they are hot through. Lay the Cabbage in a Difh, 
and lay the Herrings on it, and fend it hot to Table. 

Or you may pick your Herrings from the Bones, and 
throw the Meat over your Cabbage : Hold the hot Salaman- 
der over the Difli a little, and ferve away quick. 

To pickle Herrings or Mackarel. 

CU T oiv the Heads and Tails of your Fifli, gut them, 
wafh them, and dry them well ; then take two Ounces 
and a Half of Salt-petie, three Qiiarters of an Ounce of 
Jamaica Pepper, and a Quarter and half Quarter of vshite 
Pepper, and pound them imall ; an Ounce of Aveet Marjo- 
ram and Thyme chopped frnall ; mix all together, and put 
fome within and without the Fifh ; lay them in an Earthen 
Pan, the Roes at Top, and cover them with White Wine 
Vinegar, then fet them into an Oven, not too hot, for two 
Hours. This is for Fifteen ; and after this Rule do as many 
as you pleafe. 

To pickle Smelts to exceed Anchoxaes. 

YOUR Fifli being wafh'd and gutted clean, lay them 
in Rows, and put between ^xtrs- Layer of Fifh, Pepper, 
Nutmeg, Mace, Cloves, and Salt, well mix'd, and four Bay- 
leaves, ^powder^d Cochineal, and Petre-falt, beat and mix'd 
V, ith Spice ; boil Red Wine Vinegar enough to covpr them, 
;.nd put to them when quite cold. 



"The Lady's Companion. 149 

'To fry Mufcles. 

PU T them in a Pot that has as much boiling Water as 
will cover them j when they are fcalded take off their 
Beards, and wafh them in warm Water, dry them with a 
Cloth, and Hour them ; fry them crifp, beat up fome Butter 
with the Juice of Lemon, fry fome Parfley crifp and green, 
llrew it over them, pour the Butter upon them, and ferve 
them up. 

To Jhnx) Mufcles. 

WASH them clean, boil them in Beer and Salt, then 
take them out of the Shells, take off their Beards, 
cleanfe them, and look under the Tongue for a Crab, if you 
find one throw that Mufcle away, though fome People will 
only pick out the Crab and eat the Mufcle : Then fry them 
in Butter, pour the Butter out, and put into their own Li- 
quor a Piece of freih Butter, a little White Wine, Salt, flic'd 
Orange, the Yolks of three or four Eggs, and fome fvveet 
Herbs fhred fmall ; give all thefe a Walm or two in a Sauce- 
pan, and ferve them up in Scollop Shells. 

Another Way to Jleiv Mufcles. 

CLEAN your Mufcles, and wafh them from the Sand 
in two or three Waters, put them into a Stew-pan, 
cover them clofe, and let them flew till all the Shells are 
opened, then take them out one by one j and to a Quart of 
Mufcles put a Pint of Liquor, and a Quarter of a Pound of 
Butter, rolled in a little Flour : When they are enough, have 
fome Crumbs of Bread ready, and cover the Bottom of your 
Difh thick, grate half a Nutmeg over them, and pour the 
Mufcles and Sauce all over the Crumbs, and fend them to 
Table. 

Another JVay. 

STEW them as above, and lay them in your Dilh ; 
ftrew your Crumbs of Bread thick all over them ; thea 
fet them before a good Fire, turning the Diih round and 
round, that they may be brown all alike ; keep bailing them 
with Butter, that the Crumbs may be crifp, ferve it for a 
Side-difii. You may do Cockles the faaie Way. 



H 3 Ts 



I50 7")^^ La D y's Com p A N I ON. 

1^0 phkJe Mufcles. 

GET fome frefh Mufcles, vvafh them very clean, and 
put them in a Pot over the Fire till they open i then 
take them out of their Shells, pick them clean and lay them 
to cool ; then put their Liquor to fome Vinegar, whole Pep- 
per, Ginger fliced thin, and Mace ; fet it over the Fire ; 
when it is fcalding hot, put in your Mufcles, and let them 
flew a little, then pour out the Pickle from them, and when 
both are cold, put them in an Earthen Jug, and cork it up 
dole ; in two or three Days they will be fit to eat. Cockles 
are done the fame Way. 

% Jlenv Scollops. 

BOIL them \^ery well in Salt and Water, take them out 
and ftew them in a little of the Liquor, a little White 
Wine, a little Vinegar, two or three Blades of Mace, two 
or three Cloves, a Piece of Butter rolled in Flour, and the 
Juice of a Se-ville Orange j flew them well, and ferve away. 

To Jienv Cockles. 

TAKE them out of the Shells, wafh them well with 
Vinegar, broil or broth them before you take them 
out of the Shells, then put them in a Difh with a little Cla- 
ret, Vinegar, a Handful of Capers, Mace, Pepper, a little 
grated Bread, minced Thyme, Salt, and the Yolks of two 
or three hard Eggs minced ; flew all together till you think 
them enough ; put in a good Piece of Butter, Ihake them 
well together, heat the Difn, rub it with a Clove of Garlick, 
af you like it, and put two or three Toads of white Bread in 
the Bottom, laying the Meat on them. Crawiifh, Prawns, 
or Shrimps, are excellently good the fame Way, being taken 
out of their Shells, and make Variety of Garnifh with the 

Shells. 

Another Way. 

HAVING got fome Cockles, (lev/ them with Claret, 
Capers, Rofe, or Elder Vinegar, Wine Vinegar, large 
Mace, grofs Pepper, grated Bread, rninced Thyme, the Yolks 
of hard Eggs minced, and Butter ; (lew them well together. 
Thus you may flew Scollops, but leave out Capers. 



^he L A D y's C M xP A N I N, 151 

To drejs Tunnies. 

YO U may drefs them in Slices, or Fillets, with Veer 
Mans Sauce, 'viz. Shalct cut fmall. White Pepper, 
Vinegar, and Oil, or in a Sallad with Ramolade. 

Or they may be broiled on a Gridiron, nril rubbing with 
Butter, and llrewing them with Salt and Pepper; eat them 
with burnt Butter and Orange. 

They are I'ometimes fry'd in round Slices, and ferved up 
in a Marinade made of Slices of Lemon or Orange, put into 
a Frying-pan, with Bay-leaves, clarified Butter, Salt, Pepper, 
Nutmeg, Chibbols, and Vinegar. 

% broil Pilchards. 

GILL them, walb them, dry them, feafon them with 
Salt, then broil them over a gentle Fire, bafte them 
with Butter; when they are enough, ferve them up with 
beaten Butter, Muftard and Pepper, or you nj-y make a 
Sauce of their own Heads, fqueezed between two Trenchers 
with fome Beer and Salt. 

To fry Kollibut. 

CU T the Fifh into thin Slices, hack it with a Knife, 
and it will be ribb'd, then fry it alm.ofc brown with 
Butter, take it up, draining all the Butter from it ; makc-^ 
clean the Pan, and put it in again with Red Wine, fliccd 
Ginger, Nutmeg, Anchovy, Salt, and Saffron beaten, fry 
it till half is coniumed ; then put in a Piece of Butter, fhake- 
ing it well together v/ith a minced Lemon, and rub the Difh 
with a Clove of Garlick. 

Note, HoUibut may be drefTed all the Ways thatTurbut is. 

To fry Ray. 

AFTER it is well cleans'd, wafh it with Vinegar well 
feafon'd ; and a little before you fervc it, hy it with 
refined Butter, or with Sallad Oil ; when it is well fry'd and 
crifp, fct it a draining, and beltrew it with fine Salt ; then 
ferve it whole, or the two Sides fet together again. Garniili 
with fliced Orange, and fqueeze fome Juice of Orange 
over it. 



S4 



1^2 ^T'^ La D y's Com p A N I o N. 

To drrfs Crawfifh. 

BOIL them in Water, pick out the Tails, take off the 
^ fmall Claws, leaving the two large ones on, but take 
the Shells cif from them i then tofs them up with a little 
frefh Butter, fome Mufhrooms and Truffles ; moillen them 
with a little Fifii-Ercth, and a few Spoonfuls of Crawfilli 
Culiis, and let them fimmer a-while over a gentle Fire ; beat 
the Yolk of two Eggs with Cream, put in a little fhred' 
Par/ley, thicken your Sauce with it, giving it a Tofs or two 
over the Stove, then ferve them up in Plates or little Difhes. 

Another Way. 

BOIL them in Water and a little Salt, let them ftand 
till cold, pick the Meat out of the Tails and Legs, and 
fet it by j then take the Bodies and Claws, and beat them in 
a Mortar with fome of the Liquor in which they were boiPd, 
put a Quc.rt of Milk and a Quart of Cream to a Quart of 
that Liquor ; put in a Nutmeg cut into Quarters, a Clove or 
two, and a Blade of Mace ; boil all thefe together, then 
beat a little Sorrel and Spinach, and take a Handful of 
Leeks cut ]a:-ge ; put thefe to the Crawfifh that you pick'd 
out of the Tails and Claws ; boil them well together, but 
take care that the Kerbs do not lofe their Colour ; then put 
in a French Loaf, which place in the Middle of the Difh : 
When you are ready to ferve it up, thicken it with a Quar- 
ter of a Pound of frelli Butter, and the Yolks of Eggs, t® 
the Thicknefs of good Cream. 

A Bifque of Crawfifh. 

TA K E Crawfilli, waili them very clean, boil them, 
ar.d pull off all the Claws from the largeil of them, 
and pick out the Tails fo as to leave them hanging at the 
Shells ; but pick the Tails quit off the fmall ones, and keep 
the Shells to help to make the Culiis, which you may make 
after this Manner : Take a Dozen of fweet Almonds, 
blanch and pound them in a Mortar with the Shells of your 
Crawfiih ; then flice an Onion, with two or three Carrots, 
and as many Parfnips, and tofs them up with a little Butter; 
and when they begin to turn brown, pour upon them fome 
Filh-Broth ; feafon it with fome Salt, fome Trufiies and 
Mufhrooms, two or three Cloves, a little Bafil, Parfley, and 
a whole Leek. Let all thefe fimmer together, then mix 
among it your pounded Almonds and Shells of Crawfifh ; 

and 



The Ladv's Companion. 153 

and when they have boiled a little, ftrain all through a 
Sieve into a Pan, and ufe it in all your meagre Scops and 
Ragoos. 

When you have prepared this Cullis, take the Tails of 
your Crawfifh, fome Truffles cut in Slices, fmall Muihrooms, 
and tofs them up in a Sauce- pan with a little Butter, and a 
fmall Quantity of Fifh-Broth : Then add a Bunch of fweec 
Herbs, and let it fimmer over a gentle Fire : When it is 
enous^h, put in fome Tops of Afparagus, half a Dozen Arti- 
choak Bottoms, and thicken it with the aforefaid Cullis : 
Set fome Cruils of Bread a fimmering in good Fifh-Broth 
till they flick to the Bottom of the Difh j then garniih your 
Difli with a Border of your picked Crawfifn; put a Roll 
fcuff'd with Oyflers, or any -thing elfe you like, in the Mid- 
dle, and the Artichoak Bottoms about it, with fome Pieces 
of the Miks of Carps ; pour upon it the Ragoo and Cravv^fili 
Cullis, and ferve it very hot. 

7o Jlen.v Prawns. 

LE T your Prawns be boil'd, and pick'd, Hew them m 
White Wine, or Claret, and frefh Butter; ftafon wit i 
Salt and Nutmeg ; difn them in Scoilop-fhells, and ru i 
them over with beaten Butter, and Juice of Orange or Le- 
mon; or you may flew them in Butter and Cream, and fervs 
them up in Scollop-fnells. 

To butter Shrimps. 

TW O Quarts of Shrimps being Hewed In a Pint of 
White Wine with Nutmeg, beat up eight Eggs with 
White Wine, and half a Pound of Butter; then fhake them 
well in a Difft till they are thick enough, and ferve them on 
Sippets. 

To grill Shrimps. 

OUR Shrimps being feafon'd with Salt, Pepper, and 
fhred Parfley, butter Scollop-fiiells well, and add a lic- 

tle grated Bread ; let them flew for half an Hour, brcvvii 

them with a hot Iron, and ferve them up. 

To Jienxj Oyflers. 

TA KE a Pint of Oyflers, fet them over the Fire in 
their Liquor, with half a Pint of White Wine, a Piece 
of Butter, fome Salt, a little white Pepper, and three Blades 
of Mace ; let them ftew foftly about half an Hour ; then put 

in 



< 54 ^^s L A D v's Companion. 

in another Piece of Butter, and tofs all together; as foon as 
it is melted, turn your Oyllers, ^c. upon Sippets made ready, 
and laid in Order in a Dilh. 

To fteiM Oyflers another IVay. 

TA K E a Quart of Cyllers, waih them one by one in 
their own Liquor, with a little Vinegar and White 
Wine, then ilrain the Liquor into a Sauce-pan, and pat your 
Oyllers to it, with -Ji Bit of Mace, whole Pepper, Cloves, 
Nutmeg, and a very little Thyme and Savoury, a whole 
Onion, and a little Lemon-peel ; cover it clofe, and let it 
ilew very {low alraofl a Quarter of an Hour; then make a 
Sauce with fix Spoonfuls of the Liquor, Shalot, Anchovies, 
fome Butter, a little Mace, and Juice of Lemon ; wet Sip- 
pets in the ftevved Liquor, and lay them in a Plate, lay your 
Oyfters on them, the beft Side upwards, and crumble the 
Yolks of two or three hard Eggs over them, fo pour on 
your Sauce. Garnifn with Slices of Lemon and Barber • 
lies. 

To ftew Oyfl&rs in French Rills, 

TA K E a Quart of large Oyllers, flew them in their 
own Liquor, with a little Salt, fome PefJper, Mace, 
and fiiced Nutmeg, and when near enough, thicken them 
with Butter ; then take fix French Rolls, cut a Piece oif the 
Top, and take out the Crumb, and fill the Rolls with your 
Oyllers andLiquor, and fet them near the Fire,on aChafing- 
dilh of Coals, and let them be hot through, and as the Li- 
quor foaks in iiil them with more, or fome hot Gravy ; fo 
ferve them up inilead of a Pudding. 

To roajl Oyfiers. 

WHEN you have the largeil Oyflers you can get, 
open them, and throw them in a Difh with their 
own Liquor ; th-n take them out, put them into another 
Difh, and pour the Liquor over them, but take care that no 
Gravel get in ; that done, fet them covered on the Fire, and 
fcald them a little in their Liquor : As foon as they are cold 
draw feveral Lards through every Oyller, the Lardoons being 
firfl feafon'd v/ith Pepper, Cloves, and Nutmeg, beaten very 
line. Afterwards, having fpitL ed your Oyflers on two wooden 
Lark Spits, tie them to another Spit, and roafl them : la 
the mean while bafle them with Anchovy Sauce, macie with 
fome of the Oyfler Liquor, and let them drip into the fame 

Diih 



^he L A D y "s C o M p A N I o N. 155 

Dlfti wherein the Sauce is ; when they are enough, bread 
them with die Crull: of a Roll grated, and when they ars 
brown, draw them off: At laft blow the Fat from the Saucs 
with which the Oyfters were bailed, and put the fanr.e 
thereto i fqueeze in the Juice of a Lemon, and io let all be 
ferved up. 

Another Way. 

TAKE the largefl: Oyfters, parboil them in their ow'^ 
Liquor, wafli them in warm Water, dry them with ^ 
Cloth, then lard them with fine Lard, fpit them on Skewers* 
llrew over them Pepper, Cloves, and Nutmeg, beaten fine? 
tie the Skewers to a Spit, and fo roaft them ; bafte them with 
Anchovy Sauce, and {(^mz of their own Liquor ; when they 
are roalled, drudge them with grated Bread, difh them with 
Gravy, blowing off the Fat, then add Juice of Oranges or 
Lemons. 

To ficiKi Oyilers the French Way. 

PARBOIL a Quart of Oyflers in their own Liquor, 
wafh them in warm Water, beard them, and put them 
into a Fipkin with a litt'e of their ov;n Liquor, White Wine, 
Salt, Pepper, and a whole Onion, and let them ilew till 
i^ty are half enough ; then put them, Liquor and all, into a 
Frying-pan, and fry them a little ; then put in a Lump of 
freih Butter, and fry them a little longer ; then take the Volks 
of four Eggs diffolved in Vinegar, with minced Pariley, and 
grated Nutmeg j put thefe into the Frying-pan to the O) flej i, 
Ihake them, let them have a Walm or two, andferve them. 

Io hroil Oyflers. 

PE?^T them, put them on the Fire in their Shells, put 
in fome Butter, Pepper, a little ihred Parfley, cover 
them with grated Bread, broil them, and brown them with 
a red-hot Iron ; feiTe the.n up to Table in their Shells UDOn 
a Difh. 

Another Way, 

PARBOIL larg*:; Oyllers in their own Liquor, then pour 
them into a Colander, but fave the Liquor ; afcerward? 
wafli them clean in warm Water, wipe them iVc^^ beard them, 
and Hew them in a Pipkin with fome of their own Liquor, 
V/hiteWineVinegar^BuUerp alarge Onion, and a Blade or two 



^5^ 



^he Lady's CoMPANIo^^. 



of Mace, and Salt. When they are pretty well fleweJ, fct 
fome Scollcp-fhells, or large Oyfter-fhells, over a Gridiron, 
put into them as many Oyllers, and as much of the lievv'd 
Liquor, as they will contain ; let the Fire be gentle ; and 
when they are enough, fill the Shells with drawn Butter, and 
ferve them up. 

% hrcil Oyfrers the Dutch Way, 

OPEN the Oyfters, parboil them in their own Liquor; 
put them in a Strainer ; then put them into a Sauce- 
pan with Butter, Onions flic'd, and a little Mace ; flew 
them ; then put two or three of them into one Shell, and 
bro'l them ; then put them on Plavics, fJJ them with beaten 
Butter, and ferve them up. 

To farce Oyflers. 

FIRST open the Oyfters, then blanch them, afterwards 
mince them fmall with Gives, Parfley, and Anchovies, 
leafon with Salt and Pepper ; add to them Butter, and the 
Crumb of a French Roll ioaked in Cream, the Yolks of two 
or three Eggs, fwcet Spices and Nutmeg ; beat all thefe to- 
gether in a Mortar; then fill your Scollop-fhells, or Oyller- 
ihells, with it ; grate Bread over them, and lay them on a 
Gridiron, or fet t'lem in an Oven, and ferve them up dry, or 
with Lemon-juice. 

Mother Way\ 

TAKE a Dozen Oyllers blanch'd, Mulhrooms, Gives, 
Pariley, favoury Herbs, and fweet Spices ; make a 
Farce of thefe with the Fleih of an Eel, with frefh Butter, 
ibme Crumbs of Bread foak'd in Cream, the raw Yolks of a 
Couple of Eggs, minc'd all together, and pounded in a 
Mortar : Lay this Farce thin, and put in an Oyfler that has 
been ragoo'd : For the Manner of ragooing them, fee the 
Chapter of Ragoos. Then cover your Oyflers with the fame 
Farce, and rub them over with beaten Egg ; then pour over 
them a little Butter melted ; drudge them with grated Bread ^ 
and fet them in an Oven till they become brown, and ferve 
them up. 

To f>y Oyflers. 

LET your Oyllers be large, walh them, Avy them ; beat 
Eggb well, and dip the Oyfters in them, and then fry 
them : 1 hen put their Liquor, wirii an Anchovy, and fome 

Butter, 



The L A D y's Com p A N TON. 157 

-pan, and heat them ; lay your Oyflerc- 
in a Dilh, pour your Sauce over them, and ferve them up. 

Another JVay, 

DR Y your Oyfters very well, then beat the Yolks of 
three Eggs, with a little Cream, or Milk, and ftir in a 
little grated Bread ; dip your Oyllers into it, and fry them of 
a fine brown Colour, in a large Quantity of boiling Lard or 
Scwet. You need not turn them at all, nor Smelts, when 
you have Store of Sev/et. 

Or thus. 

OPEN large Oyfters, and lay them on a Sieve to drain ; 
then put them into a Ivjarinade, of the Juice of three 
or four Lemons, a llic'd Onion, Pepper, a little Bafil, a Bay- 
leaf, and five or fix Clo\es ; turn the Oyllers often when 
they lie in this Marinade : Then make a Batter with Flour 
and Water, one Egg, and a little Salt : Beat thefe well to- 
gether, melt a Bit of Butter as big as a Walnut, and mix it 
with your Batter : Then take your Oyllers out of the Mari- 
nade, and dry them well between two Napkins -, dip the 
Oyfiers in the Batter, and fry them in clarify'd Butter, made 
very hot. When they are fry'd brown, ferve thera up on a 
clean Napkin, with Parfley fry'd. 

Or thus. 

TAKE two Quarts of large Oyfiers, parboil them in 
their own Liquor ; then wafli them in warm Water, 
dry them, bread them, and flour them ; then fry them crifp 
in clarify'd Butter ; then lay in the Dil"h Prawns, or Shrimps, 
butter'd with Cream and fweet Butter, and lay the fry'd 
Oyllers about them ; run them over with beaten Butter, and 
the Juice of Oranges ; lay Bay-leaves, and Orange or Le- 
mon, ilic'd, round the Oyllers. 

Another Way. 

TA K E a Score or two of the largell Oyllers you can 
get, the Yolks of four or five Eggs, beat very well, 
put to them a little Nutmeg, Pepper and Salt, a Spoonful 
of fine Flour,, and a little raw Parfley fhred, fo dip in your 
Oyfters, and fry them in Butter a light Brown. 

They are very proper to lie about either ftew'd Oyllers, or 
any other Fifh, or made Dilhes. 

Oyfiers 



153 The Lady's Companion. 

Oyllers on Shivers. 

PU T a little Butter in a Stew-pan, with fome Chibbols, 
Parfley, and Mufhrooms, cut fmall, tofs them up, put 
in your Oyilers, feafon them with pounded Pepper, fvveet 
Herbs, and fine Spice, a d put a Dull of Flour over them; 
put them on a Silver, or Wooden Skesver, and put fome 
Mulhrooms between each Oyll:er. Your Skewers being filled 
up, dip them in Crumbs of Bread, and broil them. : Or you 
may dip them in Batier of Eggs, Rrew theni with Crumbs of 
Bread, and fry them to a good Colour. 

To hafa Oyfters. 

PARBOIL three Pints of Oyfters in their own Liquor, 
mince a Quart of them fmali, and ilew them in a Quar- 
ter of a Pint of White Wine Vinegar, and an Onion quar- 
tered ; two Blades of Mace, grated Nutmeg, Chefnuts fiic'd, 
and Piilachoes; add to them Salt, Pepper, half a Pound of 
fvveet Butter, and a Faggot of favoury Fierbs, let thefe ilew 
together over a gentle Fire, and feafon the Pint of Oyfters 
you left, with Salt, Pepper, and Nutmeg, and fry them in 
Batter made of Flour, Cream, and Eggs ; put in a little Spi- 
nach to make it green, and ferve them up with Lemon- 
juice; garnilh with fiic'd Oranges and Olives. 

Another Way. 

TAKE three Pints of large Oyfters, parboil them, and 
preierve their Liquor ; then mince a Quart of them 
very fine, and Hew them in a Pipkin, with fome of the 
Oyfter liquor, and near half a Pint of White Wine, an Onion, 
grated Nutmeg, and large Mace, two Spoonfuls of White 
Wine Vinegar, three Ounces of Butter, fome Piftachoes and 
Chefnuts, fome Salt, Pepper, and a Faggot of fvveet Fierbs f 
let ail thefe ftev/ together over a gentle Fire for half an Hour. 
Then feafon the other Pint of Oyfters with Salt, Pepper, and 
Nutmeg ; dip them in Batter made of Flour, Eggs, Salt, and 
Cresni ; (the one Half of the Batter being made green with 
the I'jice of Spinach, and f.veet Herbs flired fmali) and fry 
them in larify'd Butter ; then fet them by, and keep them 
warm Cut Sippets, fteep them with fome Gravy of the 
Haft" or Ovfter 'liquor, and White Wine, boiled together : 
L^y .he Sij^^pets in a Difli, and the Hafti upon them, and the 
f r , d Oyfters upon the Hafti, with the Piftachoes and Chef- 
nuts ; then beat up a SaUce of Butter, White Wine, Juice of 

Oranges^ 



ns Lady's Companioi^. 159 

Oranges, or Lemons, and the Yolk of an Egg, and pour 
this Sauce over the Hafn ; lay on Slices of Lemon and Le- 
mon-peel. Garnifii the Diih with fry'd Oyfters, carv'd Le- 
mons, Chefnut5, Fiilachoes, and grated Bread, dry'd and 
feared. 

Oyfters grilled in Scolhp Shells. 

FIRST let them be bearded and lightly feafon'd with 
Salt, Fepper, and flir.d Pavfley : Afterwards, the Scol- 
lop Shells being well butter'd, lay your Oyfters in neatly, 
adding their Liquor and grated Bread : Let them ftew thus 
half an Hour, and then brown them with a red-hot Fire 
Shovel or Salam-^.nder. 

Shrimps may be grill'd after the fame Manner, and they 
will prove very good. 

Jlmiher Way to drefs Oyfiers. 

TA K E a F'int of Oyfters, and drain them from their 
Liquor, put fome Butter in a Sauce-pan, and fet it 
over a gentle Fire ; put in a little Flour, and keep it ftirring 
till brown, then put in feme Crufts of Bread, and after that 
your Oyfters ; give them a few Turns, feafon with Pepper, 
moiften them with ftrong Broth and their own Liquor, warm 
them all together, but don't let them boil j ferve tkem hi 
Plates. 

Another Way, 

HAVING open'd your Oyfters, fave the Liquor, and 
put thereto (ome White Wine, with which you are to 
wafn your Oyfters one by one, and lay them in another Difh; 
then ftrain to them that mingled Liquor and Wine wherein 
they were wafli'd, adding a little more Wine, with an Onion 
chopp'd, fome Salt and Pepper : Cover the Diih, and ftew 
them till they are more than half enough ; that done, turn 
them, with the Liquor, into a Frying-pan, and fry them a 
pretty while ; then ilip in a good Piece oi Butter, and let 
them fry fo much longer : In the mean Time, having pre- 
pared Yolks of Eggs, four or live to a Quart of Oyfters, 
beaten up with Vinegar, ftired Parfley, and grated Nutmeg, 
mix them with the Oyfters in the Pan, which mufc ftill be 
kept ftirring, left the Liquor make the Eggs curdle : Laftly. 
let all have a thorough Walm over the Fire, and fend tixem 
to the Table. 



*ro 



1 60 l^he Lady's Companion. 

To pi-kle Oyilers. 

TAKE the largeil Oyflers you can get, wafh them 
clean, and let them lettle in their own Liquor ; then 
ftrain it, and add a little White Wine Vinegar, with Salt, 
whole long Pepper, a Race of Ginger, three Bay-leaves, 
and an Onion : Thefe being well boiled together, flip in 
your Oyfters, and let them boil leifurely till they are tender; 
be fure to clear them from the Scum as it riles : When they 
are enough take them out with a Spoon, and not touch 
them with your Fingers, and fet them by till the Pickle is 
cold : Afterwards they may be put into a long Pot, or into 
a Caper Barrel, and they will keep very well iix Weeks. 

j^ not her I'Fay. 

PARBOIL a Quart of Milfon Oyflers in their own Li- 
quor : For the Pickle take a Pint of White Wine, a 
Pint of Vinegar, and their own Liquor, with Mace» Pepper, 
and Salt ; boil and fkim it, and when it is cold keep the 
Oyflers in this Pickle. 

Another Way. 

OPEN your Oyilers, and get the Grit from them, and 
flew them in their own Liquor in an Earthen Pipkin, 
till they are tender ; then take up the Oyflers, and cover 
them, that they may not be difcoloured ; then increafe the 
Liquor with as much more Water, and let it boil till one 
Third is confumed ; then put your Oyflers into your Pot or 
Barrel, laying between the Rows fome whole Pepper and 
Spice, and a few Bay-leaves ; and when the Pickle is cold 
put it to your Oyilers, and keep them clofe flopp'd. 

Another Way, 

TAKE the largeft Oyilers, wafh them well in their 
ov;n Liquor, drain them in a Sieve ; flrain the Li- 
quor, put them into a Sauce-pan, and for every Quart of 
Oyflers put in a Spoonful of Salt, a Race of Ginger, three 
Blades of Mace, half a Nutmeg cut in three Pieces, twelve 
Corns of white Pepper, and twelve whole Cloves ; fet them 
on the Fft-e, and let them fimmer gently for feven or eight 
Minutes, and yLVo. them a Turn before they are quite enough j 
put in two Spoonfuls of White Wine Vinegar, let them have 
a Walm or two, take them off the Fire, put them into 
Earthen Pots, and flop them up clofe for Ufe. 

Another 



^'he L A D y's C O M P A N I O N. 1 6i 

Another Way 

PU T your Oyfter Liquor into a Pipkir, h 1th fome whole 
long Pepper, Salt, an Onion flit, fome Bay-leaves, a 
Kace of Ginger flic'd, and a good deal of Mace ; boil thefe 
well together, then put in the Oyllers, and let them boil for 
a Quarter of an Hour ; then put them into the Earthen Pot 
you defign to keep them in ; give your Pickle two or three 
Boils, fet it by till it is cold, then put it to the Oyfters ; and 
if you pleafe, you may put in a Clove or two of Garlick. 

Another Way. 

TA K E a hundred of large Oyfters, pour the Liquor 
into a Porringer, cut off the Beards, put them in their 
ov/n Liquor, let them boil for half an Hour over a gentle 
Fire, fkim them clean ; then take them off the Fire, take 
out the Oyfters, and alfo a Pint of the Liquor while it is 
hot ; put to it a Quarter of an Ounce of Cloves, and better 
than a Quarter of an Ounce of Mace ; then fet the Liquor 
over the Fire till it boils ; then put the Liquor to the Oyfters, 
and ftir up the Spice well among the Oyfters ; then add half 
a Spoonful of Salt, and almoft half a Pint of White Wine 
Vinegar, and half a Quarter of an Ounce of whole Pepper, 
then fet them by till they are cold, then put your Oyfters 
into the Veflel you defign to keep them in, then fill the Bar- 
rel up with Liquor, and ftop them up clofe. 

To make Oyfter-Loaves. 

PREPARE what Number o^ French Rolls you think fit, 
cut a Hole on the Top of every one, about the Com- 
pafs of Half a Crown, and fcoop out the Crumb, fo as not 
to break the Cruft ; then let fome Oyfters ftev,' in their own 
Liquor, with a little White Wine, Salt, whole Pepper, Nut- 
meg, and a Blade of Mace ; take off the Scum carefully, and 
thicken the Liquor with a Piece of Butter, rolled up in 
Flour. Afterwards fill up your Rolls v/ith the Oyfters and 
Sauce, and lay on the Piece again that was cut off. At laft, 
having put the Rolls in a Diih, pour melted Butter over 
them, and fet them in an Oven to be made crifp. If you 
have not the Convenience of an Oven, fry your Loaves crifp 
in Butter, or Lard, before you pui your Oyfters into them. 



Oyfters 



iSz The Lady^s Companion. 

Oyfters au Parmejan. 

RU B over the Bottom of a Difh with good Butter, and 
having open'd your Oyfters, lay them in it, and ftrew 
over them a little Pepper and minced Parlley ; then put to 
them half a Glafs of White Wine ; cov^r them with Slices 
of frefli Butter cut very thin, ftrew over them fome fine 
grated Cheefe ; lay a Tart-pan over the Difh, and fet them 
a ftevv'ing, with Fire over and under them, till they are of a 
vtxy fine brown Colour ; then take off ail the Fat, clean the 
Brims of your Difh, and ferve them hot. 

l^ote, Inftead of grated Cheefe, you may put only Crumbs 
of Bread, and then they are called ftewed OyAers. 

Oyflers a la Daube. 

OPEN your Oyfters, and feafon them with Parfley, 
Bafil, and Cives, flired very fmall, putting a little of 
at to each Oyfcer, with Pepper and a little White Wine ; 
then cover them with the upper Shell, and broil them on a 
Gridiron ; lay, from Time to Time, a red-hot Shovel over 
them : When they are enough, take off the upper Shell, 
and ferve them in the under one. 

To foufe Oyfters. 

TAKE two Quarts of large Oyfters, parboil them in 
their own Liquor, put them into a Colander, then 
wafh them in v.'arm Water; then make a Pickle for them 
with half a Pint of White Wine, and half a Pint of Wine 
Vinegar, put into a Pipkin with Salt, whole Pepper, Ginger, 
and Nutmeg flic'd, a Couple of Cloves, and a Blade or two 
of Mace ; give it four or five W^alms ; then put in your 
Oyfters, with a Lemon ftic'd, and fome Lemon-peel ; cover 
the Pipkin clofe. Thefe are to be eaten either hot or cold. 

To fcoikp Oyfters. 

PU T your Oyfters in Scollop Shells for that Purpofe, fet 
them on your Gridiron over a good clear Fire, let them 
llev/ till you think your Oyfters are enough, then have ready 
fome Crumbs of Bread, rubbed in a clean Napkin ; fill your 
Shells, and lay them before a good Fire, and bafte them 
well with Butter : Let them be of a fine Brown, keeping 
them turning, that they may be alike fo all over ; they are 
beft done in a Tin Oven before the Fire, and eat much beft 
done this Way, though moft People ftew the Oyfters firft in 

' a Sauce- 



W^ La D y's Com p A N I ON. i6g 

a Sauce -pan, with a Blade of Mace, thickened with a Piece 
of Butter, and fill the Shell, and then cover them with 
Crumbs, and brown them with a hot Iron : But the Bread 
has not fo fine a Taile as the other Way. 

You may garniih a Difh of Fiih with theiiij or ferve them 
for fecond Courie by themfelves. 

A Matelottee of Fifn. 

GE T a Carp, an Etl, fome Tench, Pike, Barbel, in 
fnort, what Fi(h you can get, and think proper for your 
Purpofe ; after having gutted and fcakd them, cut thern in 
Pieces, and lay them in a Stew-pan, with fome TrufHes, 
iViLfiirooms, an Onion Huck with Cloves, fome Cives and 
Panley, Bay leaves, and a little Bafil : Seafon this with Salt 
and Pepper, put to it fome White Wine, a little Fifn-Breth, 
or Juice of Onion, but juil enough to cover the Fifh ; then 
fet it over a quick Fire, and v»'hen the Court Bcui lion is half 
wafted away, put fome Butter, more or lefs, according to the 
Quantity of your Fifh, into a Sauce-pan, and brov/n it in a 
little Flour ; then empty the Liquor of your Matelotte into 
the Sauce-pan, mix your Brown and that well together, and 
pou. the Whole back again into your Matelottee, and keep 
at ftewing till it is enough done ; then put it to fome Craw- 
fifh, or other meagre Cullis, lay it handfomely in a Difh^ 
and ferve it warm for firft Courfe. 

To make an Olive of all Sorts of Fifh. 

YOU muft take all Sorts of Fifh that are not flat, as 
Carps, Pikes, Mullets, Trouts, i^c, being cleanfed 
and wafiied, take the firmeft and biggeft for boiling, and the 
other for frying and farcing : Your Fifh being boiled off* 
quick, as likewife your other Filh being all ready, difn on 
your Sippets fome large Filh turned round in the Middle of 
your Diib, or a Collar of Salmon baked in the Oven, v/ith 
the Heads of Filhes on the Top of it, and your fry'd Fifu 
betwixt them; your Smelts and Gudgeons round th^ Brims 
of your Difh, and have a Force-meat made of Fifh in little 
Balls ; place them between the Boiled and the Fry'd ; then, 
having good Oyflers, Cockles, Prawns, Perriwinkles, Craw- 
jifh, or fliced Lobflers, or any of thefe ready in your Sauce 
of thick Butter, as likewife Anchovies, pour it all over your 
Fifh, having Nutmeg grated therein : Garnifh it with Le- 
mon, and fend it to Table fmoaking hot. 

A Bifque 



164 ^he Lady's Companion'. 

J Bifque of Filh. 

YO U may take what frefli Fifh you pleafe, and clean 
it very well, then fteep it in White Wine Vinegar, 
whole Spice, fome whole Onions, fweet Herbs, tied up, one 
Lemon ilired, a Handful of Salt ; cover the Fifli almoft with 
Ingredients ; let it lleep an Hour, then have ready boiling a 
Kettle of W^ater, then put in your Filli, with the Ingredients, 
on the Fire, and when it is about half enough, put in the 
boiling Water to it ; and this Way will ma';e the Fifh much 
firmer than the old Way ; then fry fome of the other in hot 
Liquor, then have a rich Sauce made with Oyllers, Shrimps, 
Mufhroor.is, tv;o Anchovies, Capers, a Bundle of fweet 
Herbs, two whole Onions, one liuck with Cloves, Horfe- 
radilh, fcraped Nutmeg, the Juice of a Lemon, the Yolks of 
two Eggs ; mix all thefe together with two Pounds of But- 
ter, and draw it up very thick ; then difh your Fifli on Sip- 
pets, and run over your Sauce. Garnifh your fry'd Fifh with 
Parfley, Horfe-radijh, and cut Lemon, and ferve it up hot. 
Thus you may do all frefh Fifh. 

ji Marbree of Fifh, or Fifh marbled. 

TAKE Fifh of all Sorts, 'vix. a Couple of Eels fkim- 
ned, and well cleanfed, half a Dozen Perches gutted, 
and well wafhcd, fmall Smelts or Gudgeons, Trouts, half a 
Dozen Barbels, as many Weavers, Bret Fifh, or Flounders. 
All being well clean'd, put tl^em in a Stew-pan, or Fifn- 
kettle, feafon them with Pepper, Salt, Cloves, fweet Bafil, 
Thyme, Bay-leaves, two or three Bottles of White Wine, 
and fome Slices of Lemon, and moiften them with Water ; 
let not your Fifh be too much boil'd, left they break. Being 
done, take them off, and let them cool in their Liquor ; be- 
fore they are quite cold, begin with taking out your Perches, 
fcale them, and place them in your Difh ; do the fame with 
the other Fifh, one after another ; ftrain oiF their Liquor, 
and let it cool ; then put in a clean Kettle two or three 
Quarts of Water, with two Pounds of Hartlhorn Shavings, 
let it boil well, and when boiled enough, ftrain it off thro' a 
Napkin; let your Fifti-jelly be pretty firm, mix it with 
your Jelly of Hartfhorn, put it over the Fire, and let it be 
of a good Tafte ; whip up the Whites of a Dozen Eggs, and 
put them to your Jelly, with the Juice of three or four Le- 
mons ; your Jelly being clarify 'd, ftrain it off through a 
Flannel Bag or Napkin. Now boil a Dozen Crawfifh, take 

a cleaa 



The Lady's Companioji. 165 

a clean Stew-pan, big enough to contain your Ma>hree, and 
put in the Bottom four Crawfifh, forming a Crofs ; cut an 
Orange and a Lemon in Slices, and lay another Crofs with 
Slices of Orange, and another with Slices of Lemon, alter- 
nately lay an Eel round it, a Trout, a Perch, a Plaice, fome 
Smelts or Gudgeons ; put your Crawfifh in it, fome Slices 
of Orange and Lemon, with fome Orange-leaves placed 
alternately, one near the other; put the moil ordinaiy Fifh 
in the Middle, with the fineil Fifh round it, all your Fifh 
being in the Stew-pan, add your clarify 'd Jelly to them, in 
which your Fifh mull foak, and put your Stew-pan in a cool 
Place, that}-our M.r.^rrf may be daz'd well. If this Side- 
dlfh is to be ferv'd up at Dinner, it mufi: be made the Even- 
ing before. Two Hours before you fervc it up, put a folded 
Napkin in the Difh you ferve up your Ma/l?r(e in ; keep 
boiling Water in another Stew-pan, chat is bigger than that 
your ivjarb>ee is in, put a Dilh or Plate over your Ivlai-breey 
and put the Stew-pan wherein your Marbree is, into the 
Stew-pan, with boiling Water ; leave it in but a Moment, 
turn in topf)' turvy, diili it up, and ferve it for a Side-difh. 

To pickle Sprats ike Anchovies. 

PULL the Heads off of your Sprats, and fait them a 
little over Night ; the next Day, take a Barrel, or Earthen 
Pot, lay in it a Layer of refined Salt, a Layer of Sprats, a 
little Lemion-peel, and fome Bay-leaves ; then lay another 
L-ayer of Salt, and another Layer of Sprats, ^V. fo do till 
you have filled the VefTel ; then cover it clofe, and clofe it 
up with Pitch, that no Air can get in ; fet it in a Cellar, and 
turn it upfide down once a Week -, they will be .eatable in 
three Months. 

To keep Anchovies. 

YOU muil take Anchovies, and cover them two Inches 
thick with Bay-falt. 

7b make a Sallad of Anchovies. 

W* A S H them in Water or Wine till the Liquor be 
clear ; then dry them with a Linnen Cloth ; take ofl:" 
the Tails ^nd Fins, flip them from the Bones, and having 
laid them in a Plate, garnifh them with young Onione, Parl- 
ley. Slices of Lemon and Beet-roots ; then beat up fome 
fweet Oil with Lemon-juice, and pour it on the Anchovies. 

Fiih 



i6^ ^he L A D y's Companion. 

Fiih Sauce. 

TAKE fome good Gravy, and make it pretty flrong of 
Anchovie:, and a little Horfe-radifli, tnen work a 
Piece of Butrer in fome Flour, and put to it, with fome more 
Butt-er, and draw it up thick ; then, with rtew'd Oyxiers and 
Shrimps, put it to your Filli : Garniih with fry'd Parfley, 
Lemon, and Sippets. 

Sauce for pickled Fiih. 

TAKE Parfley and Gives, of each an equal Quantity, 
fome Anchovies and Capers ihred very fmall, with a 
little Salt, Pepper, Nutmeg, Oil, and Vinegar, all mix'd 
well together ; when you difh the Fifh, pour this Sauce up- 
on them, and ferve it in a China Bafon. 

Another Fifli Sauce. 

GE T two Anchovies, and boil them in a little White 
Wine a Quarter of an Hour, with a little Shalot cut 
thin ; then melt your Butter very thick, and put in fome 
pickled Shrimps, and pour it over your Fifa. You may add 
Oyfter-liquor. 

Fifh Sauce to keep the njchole Tear. 

YOU mufi take twenty -four Anchovies, chop them. 
Bones and all ; put to them ten Shalots, a Handful of 
fcraped Horfe-radifh, four Blades of Mace, one Quart of 
Rhenilh Wine, or White Wine, one Pint of Water, one Le- 
mon cut in Slices, half a Pint of Anchovy Liquor, one Pint 
of Claret, twelve Cloves, and twelve Pepper-corns ; boil 
them together till it comes to a Quart, then Itrain it off into 
a Bottle, and two Spoonfuls will be fufficient to a Pound of 
melted Butter. 

A Sauce yor Mackarel, n.Kiith Fennel and Goofeberries. 

ROWN fome Butter in a Sauce-pan, with a Pinch of 
Flour, then put in a few Cives fhred fmall ; add a little 
Fiili- Broth to mxoiften it, feafon with Salt and Pepper ; make 
thefe boil, then put in two three Sprigs of Fennel, and fome 
Goofeberries ; let all fimrner together till the Goofeberrisjs 
are foft, then put in fome CuUis, 



\ 



AMthit 



ne Lady's Com p an i ok; 167 

Another Sauce for Fifli. 

O 1 L a little Thyme, liorfe-radifh, Lemon-peel, and 
whole Pepper, in Water, add four Spoonfu-s of White 
Wine, with two Anchovies, and let all boil together for 
a- while ; then ftrain them out, and turn the Liquor into the 
fame Pan, wieh a Pound of frefli Butter ; as foon as it is 
melted remove the Pan, and flip in the Yolks of two Eggs, 
well beaten, with three Spoonfuls of \yhite Wine. Laftly, 
fet your Sauce ovc:r the Fire again, and il:ir it continually till 
it is as thick as Cream, then pour it on your Fiih very hot, 
and fend it to Tabic, 

A particular Saucc called Ramclade. 

TH I S Sauce being proper for feveral Sorts of Fifl-i cut 
into Fillets, or thm Slices, is made of Parfley, Chib- 
bois. Anchovies, and Capers, all chopped fniall, and put into 
a Dilh with Oil, Vinegar, a little Salt, Pepper, and Nutmeg, 
well te per'd together: A^ftcr the F'illeLs are drefs'd, this 
Ramolade is ufuall tarn'd over them, and fometimes Juice of 
Lemon is added, v»'hen they are to be ferved up cold, 

J Sauce yo^ Fifh or Flerti. 

TAKE a Quart of Verjuice, nnd put it into a Jug^ 
then take Jamaica Pepper whole, ibme flic'd Ginger, 
Mace, a few Cloves, fome Lemcn peel, Horfe-radifh llic'd, 
fome fweet Herbs, fix Shalots peePd, eight Anchovies, and 
two or three Spoonfuls of fnred Capers ; put all thefe into a 
Linnen Bag, and put the Bag into your Verjuice ; then Hop 
the Jug clofe, and keep it for Ufe ; a Spoonful cold, or 
mix*d m Sauce for Fiih, or Flefh, is very agreeable to moll 
Palaces. 

Oyller Sauce. 

TAKE half a Pint of Oyfters, put them into a Sauce- 
pan with their own Liquor, and two or three Blades 
of Mace ; let them fimmer till they are plump, then with 
a Fork take out the Oyllers, firain the Liquor to them, put 
them into the Sauce-pan again, with a Gill of White Wine 
hot, a Pound of Butter rolled in a little Flour ; ihake the 
Sauce-pan olten, and when the Butter is melted, give it a 
boil up. 

Mufcle 



i68 T'i?^ L A D y's Com p A N ION. 

Mufcle Sauce made the fame Way is very good, only yon 
muft put them into a Stew-pan, and cover them clofe, firil 
to open, and fearch that there be no Crabs under the 
Tongue. 

A Spoonful of Walnut Pickle in the Butter makes the 
Sauce good, or a Spoonful of Catchup. Horfe-radifh Sauce 
may be made thus : Melt your Butter, fcrape a good deal of 
Horfe-radiui fine, put it into llie melted Butter, grate half a 
Nutmeg, beat up the Yolk of an Egg with one Spoonful of 
Cream, pour it into the Butter, keep it lUrring till it boils, 
then pour it diredly into your Bafon. 

Sauce for Salmon, Turbut, Cod, ^c. 

ME L T a fufhcient Quantity of Butter thick ; flir int© 
it the Body of a Lobiler, then mince the Meat of the 
Lobfter very fne, and put it in alfo, ftew all together, and 
when done enough, pour it into a Bafon : Some make it of 
one half Gravy, and the other melted Butter, and Lobfter. 

Mince-Meat of Fifh. 

TAKE fome Carps, Pikes, and other Fifli, fkin them, 
take out the Bones, and mince all thefe together upon 
a Table ; put in the Crumb of Bread boiled in M:Ik, and 
eight or nine Yolks of Eggs ; put in a good Piece of Butter, 
and feafon it with Sal , Pepper, fine Herbs, and fne Spice, 
minc'd Mufhrooms, and Truffles f put your minc'd Meat into 
a Mortar, with your Whites of Eggs beat to Snow, pound 
all together, and make Ufe of it for any Stuffing of Filli, or 
Balls, as you think proper. 

To make Filh-Balls. 

T A K E Carp and Eel, mxince it fmail together, with 
the fame Quaniity of Sewet, fome Aveet Herbs, and 
^voury Spice, Crumbs of Bread and Eggs ; beat all in a 
Mortar, and make it into Balls. 

Another Way, 

TA K E a little Thyme, Savour>', and Spinach, mince 
it fine, add fome Crumbs of Bread, an Anchovy or 
two, fome Sewet, and the Yolks of two Eggs well beaten ; 
feafon it with a little Salt, Pepper, Cloves, and Mace, and 
mix all well together, and make it into Balls, 



V3i 



T/[7^ L AD y's Co MP A N I ON. 169 

ne Times when Fijh are i?2 Seaf.n* 

J A ]^ U A R r. 

GOLDEN Smelts, Grailings, or Humbers, Green 
River Carps, fmall Pvoaches, Codlings, Dabs, Fe^t'er- 
foam Oyfters, Cods, Sea Flounders, Cockles, Colchejier Oy- 
'flers, Green V/elfleet Oyiiers, Holibuts,. Coles-Fiih, Gray 
Lumps, Miltcn Oyllers, Red Lumps, Chars, large River 
Flounders. Pike, in Seaion moil Months in the Year. 
Popes, in Seafon moft Months in the Year. Plaice, the fame, 
and fmall River Flounders. Turbuts, in Seafon moll Months 
of the Year. Thornbacks, Maids, Soals, and Gudgeons, ail 
the Year, as are Bleaks and Grigs. 

F B B RU A R r. 

Large River Flounders, Sea Flounders, Chars, Holibuts, 
large Dace, large Roach, Salmon-Trouts, Salmon, Breams, 
River Treats, Sea Perches, Chubs, which laft, if not eaten 
the fame Day it is taken, is worth but little ; it fpawns in 
March. 

MARCH. 

The Month of ^faf■ch is the Time when all Pond Fifh are 
in the greateH Perfe^flion -, and it is to be obferv'd, that both 
Males and F'emales of all kinds of Filh are bell: before the 
Spawning Time, and that they are fick and unvvholefora'e 
for three Weeks after Spawning Time. Fifh in Seafon _this 
Month are, 

Large River Flounders, Sea C^abs, Cods, Sea Flounders, 
Chars,_ BafTes, AlliiTes, Silver Smelts, Sea Tench, Willifes, 
and Kingilons. 

APRIL. 

Sea Crabs, Sea Crawiifh, large River Flounders, Salmon- 
Trout. Thames Salmon comes into Seafon in April, and is 
allowM to be caught till Hofy-Roo^B^y the 13th of Septem- 
ber. River Trout, Ha7npfhire'\% the chief County for Trouts. 
Sturgeon is catch'd this Tv^onth in the Northern Seas, but 
is now and then taken in our great Rivers, the Thajnes, the 
Sea^erfi, and the T'cr.e: This Filh is of a very large Size, even 
fometimes to meafure 1 8 Feet in Length ; it is in great Efteem 
when freih taken, to be cut in Pieces of eight or'ten Pounds, 

Vol. L I to 



1 7© The Lady's Companion., 

to be roafted or baked, befides to be pickled and kept for 
cold Treats ; and moreover the Cavier, which is efteemed a 
Dainty, is the Spawn of this Fiih. 

Pilchards come in Seafon this Month for the firil Time. 
Sea Liabs continue in Seafon. 

Pond Carp, in Seafon this and moil Months of the Year, 
except Part of May, in the Beginning of which they fpawn, 
they increafc wonderfully, fci- they breed three I'imes a 
Year. 

The Melter Carp is much the f ner Fiih, but the Spermer 
is largeft. Lamper Eel, Fire Flaws, 'S-.r^x.uy Lobikrs, t?'c. 

M A Y. 

Sea Crabs flill in Seafon, Sea Crawf.ih the fame ; Brown 
Shrimps, Shads, Guard Fifh, Red Mullets, Mackarel, White 
Prawns, and Herrings, I'routs flill in Seaibn. Scollops in 
the Mackarel Seafon. 

7 C/ A^ £. 
Mackarel continue in Seafon, and Flerrings ; Eels, the 
Eels that are taken in Rivers and running Waters are better 
than Pond Eels, and of thofe the Silve ones are moil efteem- 
ed. Chich,Jhr and Black LoL-flers. Red Mullets continue in 
Seaibn. 

J u L r. 

Red Mullets ftill in Seafon ; right Anchovies the Begin- 
nino- of this Month -, Cravvfifli are in Seafon all the Year ; 
the^eft in England are faid to be taken in the River Kennet 
at HuvgerforcL Oyiters firfl come in Seafon on 6V. Jameses 
Day, the 25th of this Month. 

AUGUST. 
tobfters and Crabs come in Seafon inAugvJl and hold till 
Chriftmas, which is called the firft Se-^fon ; and from Chriji- 
fPMi to June is called the fecond Seafon. Smeer Dabs, 
RufFs, and John Dorees. 

SEPTEMBER. 
Barbels, they take their Name from their Barbs ; they are 
not a very pleafant Filli to eat, for they are dry and full of 
Bones ; their Eggs and Spawn vomit and purge violently. 
Gurnctf, fmall Roaches, fmall Dace, green Smelts, Mack- 
arel, Homelings^ Herrings, and Brills. >r> ^ ^ 

OCT €/ • 



^he L A D y's C o M p A N I N. 171 

OCTOBER. 

Scotch Lobfters, grey Mullets, Dabs, Haddocks, Whitings, 
Sea Spiders, Perches, and Pilchards. Herrings flill in Sea- 
fon. 

N O V E M B E R. 

Tench ; Dabs ftill in Seafon ; Haddock the fame ; Sea 
Cravvfifn, Whitings Hill in Seaibn ; Stock Haddocks, Cods, 
Ling, PouUing?, Sprats, Codlings, Milion and white l^Ftl- 
fi.ci Oyfters from this Month till January, 

DECEMBER. 

Codlings Hill in Seafon, and large River Flounders ; Dabs 
ftill in Seafon; Haddocks and Whitings the fame. Cockles 
and Cohhejier Oyilers. Ling yet in Seafon. Sea Flounders, 
Weavers/ Chars, Mufcles, Sprats, brown Shrimps, red 
Lumps, River Coney Fifhes, and Lampreys in Seafon from 
Chrij-.mas to "J une : The beA of this Sort of Filh are taken 
in the River Se'uerr, and when they are in Seafon, the Fifh- 
mongers and others in Loud », have them generally potted 
from Gloucejler, but if you are where they are to be had frefh, 
you may drefs them different Ways. 



CHAP. III. 

Of BUTCHER'S MEAT. 

To force the hfide of a Surloin of Eeef. 

CAREFULLY lift up the Fat with a lliarp Knife, and 
take out all the Meat clofe to the Bone, chop it fmall, 
take a Pound of the Sevvet, and chop it fine, about as many- 
Crumbs of Bread, a little Thyme and Lemon-peel, a little 
Pepper and Salt, half a Nutmeg grated, and two Shalots chop- 
ped fine ; mix all together, with a Glafs of Red Wine, then 
put it into the fame Place, cover it with th« Skin and Fat, 
fkewer it down with fine Skewers, and cover it with Paper ; 
don't take the Paper off till the Meat is in the Difh. Tak» 
a Quarter of a Pint of Red V/ine, two Shalots fhred fmall 

I 2 boll. 



172 7^-6^ Lad r's Com p A Nio N. 

boil them, raid pour into the Difli, with the Gravy which 
comes out of the Meat. Spit your Meat before you take out 
the Infide. 

To force the Inftde of a Rump of Beef. 

YO U may do it juft in the fame Manner, only lift up 
the outfide Skin, take the Middle of the Meat, and 
do as before direcled ; put it into the fame Place, and with 
fine Skewers put it down clofe. 

When you roail Beef, be fure to paper the Top, and bafie 
it well all the Time it is roafting, and throw a Handful of 
Salt on it. When you fee the Smoak draw to the Fire, it 
is near enough ; then take off the Paper, bafte it well, and 
drudge it with a little Flour to make a fine Froth. Never 
fait your Meat before you lay it to the Fire, for that draws 
out all the Gravy. If you would keep it a few Days be- 
fore you drefs it, dry it very well with a clean Cloth, then 
flour it all over, and hang it where the Air may come to it; 
but be fure always to mind that there is no damp Place about 
it ; if tliere is, you muft dry it well with a Cloth. 

To drefs PiCef a la Braife. 

GE T two or more Pihs of Beef, only the ilelhy Part of 
them that is next the Chine, cutting off. the long 
Bones, and taking away all the Fat ; lard it with large 
Pieces of Bacon, feafon'd with Spices, fweet Herbs, Parf- 
ley,, young Onions, a little Quantity of Mufhrooms and 
IVufRes, flired very fmall. When your Beef is thus larded, 
bind it about with Packthread, for fear it Ihould break to 
Pieces when you come to take it out of the Stew-pan, v»'hich 
mull be bigger, or lefs, according to the Size of your Beef: 
Cover the Bottom of it with Slices of fat Bacon, and over 
that lay Slices of lean Beef an Inch thick, well beaten, and 
feafon'd with Spice, Herbs, Onions, Lemon-peel, Bay- 
leaves, Pepper, and Salt ; then put in the Beef, obferving 
to lay the flelhy Side downv/ards, that it may the better take 
the Taile of the Seafoning. You muft feafon the upper Part 
©fit as you did the lower, and lay over it, in like iVIanner, 
Slices of fat Beef, and over them Slices of Bacon ; This 
done, cover your Stew-pan, and clofe it well with Pafte all 
round the Edge of your Cover ; then putfome Fire as well 
over as under it : While your Beef is thus getting ready, 
make a rvagoo of Veab Sweetbreads, Capons Livers, Mufh- 
rooms^ 



7)^^ L A D Y 'S C O M P A N I O N. I 73 

rooms, Truffles, Afparagus Tops, and Artichoak Bottoms, 
which you mull tois up with a little melted Bacon, moiilen 
with good G ravy, and thicken with a Cullis made of Veal 
and Gammon of Bacon. When you are ready to ferve, 
take up your Beef, and let it drain a little; then lay it in 
the Dilli in which you intend to ferve it, and pour your Ra- 
goo upon it. 

This Beef a la Braife is fometimes ferv'd with a hafh'd 
Sauce, made in the following Manner: We take a little of 
the Lean of a Gammon of Bacon, iome young Onions, a 
little Parfley, fome Muihrooms, and 1 ruffles, and fhred all 
of them very fmall together ; then we tofs it up with a little 
Lard, moifien it with good Gravy, and thickan it with the 
Cullis laft mentioned ; and when we ferve up the Beef, we 
pour the Sauce upon it. 

At other Times it maybe ferv'd up with a Ragoo of Car- 
doons, or Succory, or Sellery, or of roailed Onions, or Cu- 
cumbers ; which lail: is made as follows : 

Take fome Cucumbers and pare them, cut them in two 
In the Middle, take out the Seeds j then cut them in fmall 
Slices, and marinate them for two Hours, with two or three 
ilic'd Onions, Vinegar, and a little Pepper and Salt j after 
this, fqueeze your Cucumbers in a Linnen Cloth, and then 
tofs them up in a little melted Bacon ; when they begin to 
grow brown, put to them fome good Gravy, and fet them to 
fimmer over a Stove. When you are ready to ferve, take 
off the Fat from your Cucumbers, thicken them with a 
good Cullis made oi Veal and Gammon of Bacon, and pour 
them on your Beef. 

This Ragoo of Cucumbers ferves likewife for all Sorts o: 
Butcher's Meat, that is either roafled, or ilew'd in whole 
Joints in its own Gravy. 

Beef ij la Brcife, is made of all the Pieces that grow nex: 
the Chine, from the Neck to the Rump, as well as of the 
Ribs. 

Beef y^r^^^. 

THE fame Pieces of Beef only are farced that are 
dreffed a la Braip, that is to fay, thofe that are com- 
monly called Roailing Pieces, and thofe may be farced with 
a Salpicon ; or elfe, when your Beef is almofl roafted, raif;^ 
up the Skin, or Outfide of it, and take the Fleih 6f the 
Middle, which you mufl Ihred very fmall, with the Fat of 
Bacon and Beef, fine Herbs, Spices, and good Garnifiiinsc. 

I 3 .With 



1 74 ^he Lady's Companion. 

With this you farce, or fluff Beef between the Skin and the 
Bone, and few it up very carefully to prevent the Flefh from 
dropping into the Dripping-pan, when you make an End of 
r-oafling it. 

Brifcuit of Beef a la Cholonnoife. 

'\T O U mufl take a Brifcuit of Beef, and fet it a boiling, 
\ when it is half boiled, take it up, and lard it with large 
Larcoons of Bacon, then put it on a Spit, and to make it 
Hick fall:, take two Sticks, and tie them at both Ends of it. 
Have in your Dripping pan a Marinade made of Vinegar, 
Pepper, Salt, Spice, Onion, the Rind of Lemon and Orange, 
Rofemary, and Sage, and keep bafiing it with this all the 
uhile it is roafting : When it is enough, fet it a fimmering in 
the Sauce, which you may thicken with Chippings of Bread 
or Klour, ftirred in a little flrong Broth. Let your Gar- 
nifhmgs be Mufhrooms, Palates, and Afparagus. 

A Rump of Beef roUed. 

HAVING taken out the Bones, make a Slit the whole 
Length of it, and fpread it as much as you can : Lard 
it with large Lardoons of Bacon well feafon'd : Make a 
Farce of the Flefh of the Breafls of Fowls, Beef-fewet, Mufh- 
ro'jrr.s, and boil'd Ham : Seafon your Farce with Pepper, 
Salt, fweet Herbs, Spices, Parfley, and feall Onions, a few 
Crumbs of Bread, moiflen'd with Cream, and three or four 
Yolks of raw Eggs ; hafh all thefe together, and pound it in 
a Mortar : Having fpread this Farce on the Piece of Beef, 
roll it up at the two Ends, and tie it fail: w-ith Packthread : 
Take a Pot, cr Kettle, of the Size of your Piece of Beef, 
and garnifii the Bottom of it, firft with Bards of Bacon, and 
then with Slices of Beef well feafon'd with Salt, Pepper, 
Herbs, Spices, Onions, Carrots, and Parfnips ; put the Piece 
cf B.ef into the Pot, and cover it with Beef and Bacon, as 
under it ; cover your Pot very clofe, put Fire under and 
over it, and keep it flev/ing for ten or twelve Hours ; Make 
hr.rn"d Sauce, with fome Ham or Bacon cut in Dice, with 
halh'd Iviufr.rooms and Truffles, fmall Onions and Parfley: 
Tofs up all this in a Sauce-pan, with a little melted Bacon, 
and moiilen it with good Gravy ; when it is enough, take 
oft ail the Fat, and thicken the Sauce with a CiJUs of Veal 
r.r:d Mcdn. When you are going to ferve, m,ix among it a 
hafh'd AiKhovy and a fev/ Capers : Take up your Beef and 

drain 



^/,^^ La dy's CoMPAN ION. 175 

drain it very well ; then lay it in your Diih, pour your Sauce 
upon it ; fo ferve it very warm. 

At another Tirae you may ferve it with a Ragoo of Calves 
Sweetbreads, and Cocks-combs, or with a Ragoo of Cucum- 
bers and Succory. 

Tg kil a Rump of Eeef. 

LE T it be well rubb'd over with common Salt, all So'-ts 
of Pot-herbs, Pepper, and a little Salt-petre, and lie 
three or four Days ; then put it into a Pot, according to its 
Size, and fill the Pot with Water, putting in fome Onions, 
Garden Pot-herbs, Bay-leaves, Salt, Pep-er, and Ciove.s 
put in alio fome Carrots. When it is boiled fufficiently, lay 
it in a Diih. Grirnilli it with gicen Parlley, and ierve it up 
for the firil Conrfe. 

To koil a Rump of Beef the French F Jhion. 

PARBOIL your Rump of B.ef for half an Hour: take 
it up, and put it into a deep Difh ; cut GaHies in t'lvi 
Side, that the Gravy may come out ; then put Salt and Pep- 
per in every Galli ; then fill up the Dilli with Claret, and 
put in two or three Blades of Mace ; fet it over a Chafing- 
dilh of Coals, and cover it clofe, and lee it ftcw for rmKour 
and half, but turn the Meat often ; then take off :he Fat, 
put in a Handful of Capers, five or :'.x Onions flic'd, half a 
Dozen of hard Lettuce flic'd, and a Spcronful or two of Ver- 
juice. Boil all thefe together till the Meat is tender, and 
ferve it up to Table with brown Bread and Sippets fry'd in 
Butter. 

To carbonado, hroU^ or roaji Beef, the Italian IVciy. 

HAVING got Ribs of Beef, cut them into Steaks, and 
back them ; then fprinkle them wkh Rofe \''iregar, 
and Elder Vinegar, and feafon them with Salt, Pepper, and 
Coriander-feed, then lay them one upon another in a T>\\h 
for an Hour, and broil them on a Gridiron, or toail them 
before the Fire, and ferve them up with the Gravy that came 
from them, or the Gravy and Juice of Orange boiled toge- 
ther. 

To make Beef Cullis. 

HAVING roafled a Piece of Buttock of Beef very 
brown, cut off all the brown Part, and beat it hot in 
a Mortar, with the Carcafes of Partridges, or any other 

I 4 Fowl 



iy6 Tbe LjAD Y^s Companion-. 

Fowl that you have, and Crufts of Bread ; then put it into a 
Stew-pan, with ftrong Gravy and good Broth ; feafon it with 
Salt, Pepper, Cioves, Thyme, fweet Baiil, and a Piece of 
green Lemon. Let thefe have four or hve Boilings up, then 
ilrain them for Ufe. 

Jj^ortRih of Beef farceJ. 

WHEN the fnort Rib is almoR roafted, take fome of 
the Flefh out of the Middle, mince it imall with Ba- 
con, Beef-fewet, fome Herbs, Spice, and good Garnitures ; 
then farce the Rib betwixt the St:in and the Bone with it ; 
then (ew it up again, that the Meat may not fall into the 
Dripping-pan. Garniih with Fricandos or Scotch Collops, in 
Form of larded Cutlets, with fry'd Bread ; and when it is 
ferv'd up at Table, the Skins are to be taken off, that the 
Meat may be eaten with a Spoon. 

^ ^ Side-dilh cf Beef Fillets. 

GE T fome Beef Fillets, or Slices larded, and marinated 
with Vinegar, Salt, Pepper, Cloves, Thyme, and 
Onions, let them be roafted leiiurely on a Spit, and then put 
into good Gravy, with Truffles ; and garnifh them with mari- 
nated Pigeons or Chickens. 

Beef efcarlot. 

HAVING got a Brifcuit pf Beef, rub it all over with 
half a Pound of Bay Salt, and a little White Salt 
mix'd with it ; then lay it in an Earthen Pan or Pot, turn it 
every Day, and in four Days it will be red ; then boil it four 
Hours very tender, and ferve it with Savoys, or any kind of 
Greens, or without, with pick'd raw Parlley all round. 

Another Way. 

TA KE a Brifcuit of Beef, half a Pound of coarfe Su- 
c;ar, two Ounces of Bay Salt, a Pound of common 
Salt, mfx all together, and rub the Beef, lay it in an Earthen 
Pan, and turn it every Day. It may lie a Fortnight ift the 
Pickle, then boil it, and ferve it up either with Savoys, or a 
Peas-pudding. 

Note, It eats much finer cold, c«t into Slices, and fent to 
Table. 



Beef 



^be Lady's Companion; 177 

Beef a la Daub, 

HAVING got a Rump or Buttock of Beef, lard it, 
and force it, then pals it off brown ; put in fome Li- 
quor, or Broth, and a Faggot of Herbs ; fealbn with Pep- 
per, Salt, Cloves, and Mace ; ftove it four Hours very ten- 
der, and make a Ragoo of Morels, Truffles, Mufnrooms, 
Sweetbreads, and Palates, and lay all over. Garnilh with 
Petty-patties, and flick Atlets over. 

Beef tf la Daub another Way. 

YO U may take a Buttock or a Rump of Beef, lard it, 
fry it brown in fome fweet Butter, then put it into a 
Pot that will juft hold it , put in fome Broth, or Gravy, hot, 
fome Pepper, Cloves, Mace, and a Bundle of fweet Herbs, 
ftew it four Hours till it is tender, and feafon it with Salt; 
take half a Pint of Gravy, two Sweetbreads, cut into eighc 
Pieces, fome Truffles and Morels, Palates, Artichoak Bottoms, 
and Muihrooms, boil all together, lay your Beef into the 
Diih, flrain the Liquor into the Sauce, and boil all together. 
If it is not thick enough, roll a Piece of Butter in Flour, and 
boil in it. Pour this all over the Beef. Take Force-meat 
rolPd in Pieces, half as long as one's Finger, dip them into 
Batter made with Eggs, and fry them brown, fry fome Sip- 
pets dipp'd into Batter, cut three Corner-ways, flick them 
into the Meat, and garnilh them with the Force-meat. 

Beef a la hiode in Pieces. 

YO U mull take .a Buttock and cut it in two Pound 
Lumps, lard them with grofs Lards feafon'd; pals 
them off brown, and then Ilove them in good Liquor, or 
Broth, of fweet Herbs, juil enough to cover the Meat ; put- 
in a Faggot, and feafon with Cloves, Mace, Nutmeg, and 
Salt ; and when tender, ikim all well, and fo ferve away hot 
or cold. 

Beef Or-oes. 

CUT a Rump of Beef into long Streak?, cut them 
fquare, and wa(h them with fome Eggs, and feafon.' 
them 5 lay on fome Force-meat, and roll them, and tie them 
up fail, and either road them, or Hove them tender. Sauca 
thcra with Shalots, Gravy, and Vinegar. 



411^^ 



17^ ^^hi Ladv's Companion. 

A Hafh of raiv Beef. 

CU T fome thin Slices of tender Beef, and put them in 
a Stew-pan, with a little Water, a Bunch of fweet 
Herbs, fome Lemon-peel, an Onion, with fome Pepper^ 
Salt, and fome Nutmeg ; cover thefe clofe, and let them 
ftew till they are tender ; then pour in a Glafs or two of 
Claret, and when it is warm, clear your Sauce of the Onion, 
Herbs, crV. and thicken it with burnt Butter. It is an ex'- 
cellent Dilh. Serve it hot, and garnifh with Lemon ilicd, 
and red Beet Roots, Capers, and fuch like. 

^hin Beef Collops Jiewed. 

CU T raw Beef in thin Slices, as you would do Veal 
for Scotch Collops ; lay them in a Difh, with a little 
Water, a Giafs of Wine, a Shalot, fome Pepper and Salt^ 
and a little fweet Marjoram powder 'd ; then clap another 
Dilh over that, having firft put a thin Slice or two of fat Ba- 
con among your Collops i then fct your Mefs To as to reft on 
the Back of two Chairs, and take fix Sheets of Whited- brown 
Paper, and tear it in long Pieces, and then lighting one of 
them, hold it under the Difh till it burns out, then light an- 
oiher, and fo another, till all your Pacer is burnt, and ther^ 
your Stew will be enough, and full of Gravy. Some wilt 
put in a littk Mufhroom Gravy, with the Watci', and other 
ingredients, which is a very good Way. 

Stenjoed Beef- Steaks. 

WHEN you have get Rump Beef- Steaks, feafon them 
with Pepper and Salt ; then lay them in thie Pan, 
and pour in a little Water, then add a Bunch of fweet 
Herbs, a few Cloves, an Anchovy, a little Verjuice or Vine- 
gar, an Onion, and a little Lemon-peek with a little Bit of 
Butter, or fat Bacon, and a Glafs of White Wine. Cover 
thefe clofe, and ftcw them gently, and when they are tender 
pour away the Sauce, and itrain it ; then take out the Steaks 
and flour and fry them ; and when you put them in the Dilh, 
thicken tlie Sauce, and pour it over them. 

To fry Beef-Steaks. 

AFTER they are well beaten with a Roller, fry them 
with half a Pint of Ale ; fured fome Onion fmall, mix 
it v/ith Salt, and a few Crumbs of Bread, and ftrew them 
therewith. When they are fry'd, take a little Onion, a Sha- 
lot, 



ne L A D y's C O AI P A N I O U. 1 79 

lot, Thyme, Parfley, and Savoury, and chop them very 
fmall, add icme grated Nutmeg, then roll up a Piece of But- 
ter in Flour, and fhake it up very thick, and ferve them. 

Another Way, 

CU T the Beef into Steaks, beat them with the Back of 
the Shredding-knife ; then put only the Lean into a 
Frying-pan with juil fo much Butter as will moiilen the 
Pan ; let them on a gentle Fire, turning them often ; and as 
the Gravy runs from them, k.ep pouring it out ; then fry 
the Fat by itfelf, and lay it on the Lean ; then put a little 
Anchovy, Onion, Nutmeg, Pepper, and Claret, in the Gravy, 
and Hew it a little. 

^ Sidt'fiijh of a Piece of Beef ivith Cucumbers. 
T> OAST a good Piece of tender Beef larded, or co- 
i'V vered with thin Bards of Bacon, and wrapp'd up in 
Paper ; when it is roailed, cut it into Fillets, or thin Slices, 
and lay them in a Diili -, then let fome Cucumbers be llic'd 
and marinated, then fqueeze them, and put them into a Stew- 
pan with fome Lard, and i^evv them well ; then drain off all 
the Lard, and put in a little Flour, and tofs them up again a 
little while ; then foak them In good Gravy, and add fome 
thickening Liquor to make the Ingredients incorporate well 
together, a Spoonful of Gammon EiTence is very good for 
that Purpofe, put to it a little Verjuice or Vinegar, and let 
not the Fillets boil too long, left they grow hard. Garnifh 
with fry'd Bread, Marinades, or RilToles, and ferve them hot 
to Table. 

To drffs a Buttock rf Beef. 

LARD your Buttock with Gammon and other Bacorr, 
well fer.fbn'd with Salt, Pepper, Cloves, Cinnamon, 
Coriandei-fecd, and grated Nutmeg ; alfo Onions, Parfley, 
Shalots, all mix'd together. Let as much of thefe as you 
can, he Rutted into the Bacon, and lard the Buttock botli on 
the Top and underneath ; then feafon it again with all your 
Ingredients, and put it into a Stew-pan to be marinated a 
little v/hile with Onions, Garlick, Shalots, Parfley, fweet 
BafiL Thyme, Slices of Lempns, Verjuice, and a Ikile Broth. 
Let it lie in tnefe two Hours, then put it in a Napkirr with 
thin Slices of Bacon, wrapping it up clofe, (^ rhat no Fat 
may enter. Put a Plate in the Eottom of the Pot, fo keep 
tlie'Na5)kin and Meat from being burnt to the Bottom, and, 

bOil 



iSo W^ Lad y's Com PAN I ON. 

boil it in the Evening againll the next Day. To feafon iC;,. 
you may put in about two Pounds of Leaf- fat of a Hog's 
Belly, Verjuice, Salt, long Pepper, Ginger, Cinnamon, Nut- 
meg, Slices of Lemon, Onion, Parfley, Bay-leaves, fweet 
Bafil, and whole Coriander, Annis, and Fennel; when all 
tliefe are put into the Pot, let it be covered very clofe, and 
let the Beef be ilew'd very gently ; and when it is enough, 
let it cool in its own Fat ; then make a Godivoe, put it into 
the Dilh in which the Piece of Beef is to be dreifed ; then 
cover it with the fame Godivoe, and then put it into the 
Oven for an Hour. Before you ferve it up, prepare a \yell 
feafon'd Beef Cullis, and make a round Hole in the Top of 
the Godivoe, and pour in your Cullis, fo that it may pene- 
trate into every Part, and the Juice of a Lemon upon that. 
This Beef may be ferv'd up cold in thin Slices, inflead of 
Beef a la Royal. ^ 

% ronji a Fillet of Beef. 

THIS Fillet lies only in the Infide of the Surloin next 
to the Chine, and is the tenderell Part of the Ox ^ 
fpit this on a fmall Spit, and do not run it through the beft of 
the Meat ; roafl it gently, and balle it with Butter ; catcli 
the Gravy in a Diih whilfl the Beef is roalling ; in the mieai^ 
Time make a Sauce for it with fweet Herbs, and Parfley 
ihred fmall, the Yolks of three or four Eggs, an Onion, and 
ibme Orange-peel minc'd ; put thefe mto fweet Butter,, 
Gravy, a Spoonful or two of ftrong Broth and Vinegar ^ 
ftew them all together, then put your Beef into it, and ferve 
it up hot to Table. 

^0 male a Beef Hotchpot. 

TAKE a Brifcuit-rand of Beef, fome Mutton, and 
Veal, boil them together in a good Quantity of Wa-^ 
ter, fkim it well, then mince Cabbage, and fweet Herbs, and 
Mic'd Carrots, and put in, feafon v/ith Salt and Pepper ; let 
them boil till they are almoft a Jelly, then ferve them up on 
Sippets. 

Beef- Steaks roikd. 

TAKE three or four large' Beef-Steaks, and flat them, 
with a Cleaver : Make a Farce with the Flefli of a 
Capon, foine of a Fillet of .Vea4, and fome Gan.on of Ba- 
con, both Fat and Lean '; add to this tne Fat of a Loin of 
Veal, Sweetbreads, young Onions, Parfiey, Muflirooms, and 

Truffles, 



The Lady's Companion. iSi 

Truffles, the Yolks of four Eggs, with a little Cream ; fea- 
fon all thcfe with Spice and Herbs, and halh them, then 
ftrevv them on your Slices of Beef, and roll it up very hand- 
fomely, that they may be firm, and of a good Size ; then let 
them Hew a good while. When they are enough, take them 
up, and drain away the Fat very well, then flit them in two, 
and lay them in a Dilh, the cut Sides uppermofc. You ma/ 
put to them a Ragoo, or a good CuUis, as you pleafe^ 

To fie-iK) a Rump of Beef. 

HAVING boiled it till it is more than half enough-, 
take it up, and peel off the Skin -, take Salt, Pepper j 
beaten Mace, grated Nut.neg, Parfley, Marjoram, Savoury, 
and Thyme ihred, and fluff tnem in large Holeb through the 
Fat ; and lay the reil of the Seafoning aii over the lop, and 
fpread over it tne Yolk of one cr two Eggs to Lind it on. 
Save the Gravy that runs out while you are ftuiung u, and 
put to it a Pint of Claret, and fome Vinegar ; put it into a 
deep Pan, io fit for it, that the Liquor will fill it up ta the 
Top y let it bake for two Hours, then put it into a Djlh, and 
pour the Liq^uor it was baked in all over it. 

Another Way, 

CUT Beaf-Steaks off the Rump, half broil them, thea 
feafon them high, and put them into a Stew-pan, and 
cover them with Gravy; roll a Piece of Butter in Flour, pu: 
it in, add the Yolk of an Egg, and ferve them up. 

Another Way. 

GE T an oval Stew-pan, with a clofe Cover, lay in a 
Rump of Beef, but cut off the Bone, cover the Beef 
with Water, put in a Spoonful of v/hole Pepper, two Onions^ 
a Bunch of fweet Marjoram, Savoury, Thyme, and Parlley, 
half a Pint of Vinegar, a Pint of Claret, and ieafon it with 
Salt, fet it on the Stove clofe cover'd, to Hew four Hours, 
fhaking it fometimes, and turning it four or five Times ; if it 
be too dry pour in warm Water, make Gravy as for Soop, 
and put in three (^larts of it ; keep it Hewing till Dinner is 
near ready, then ilew twelve Turnips cut the broad Way, in 
four Slices, and flour them well, and Iry them at twice 
in boiling Beef-fewet, and drain them. When the ^^ti 
is tender, put it dry in a Difli, and put the Turnips into 
the Gravy, fliake them togetlier, and let them heat over the 
Fire, and pour it ov^r the i^eefj melt two Ounces of But- 
ter 



l82 The Lad y's Companion. 

ter m the Sauce-pan where you (hook up your Turnips, with 
a little Gravy, and pour it all ovv^r the ^^<,i, and ierve it. 

Beef-Steaks nvith Oyller Sauce. 

HAVING cut Steaks from the Rump, or any other 
tender Part, fcafbn them with Pepper without Salt, 
for that would make them hard, ^ry them, but keep them 
pretty conilantly turning ; when they aie enough, fait them 
to your liking ; then take the Oyfters from their Liquor, and 
waih them with faked Water to tleanfe them from Grit ; let 
the Liquor iland a little to fettle, and pour off the clear Part 
of it ; -then ftew the Oyrters gently in their own Liquor, 
wieh a little Nutmeg, a Clove or two, fome whole Pepper, 
and an Anchovy. If you ftew them too much they will be 
hard, which you mull: take cate to avoid When they are 
near enough, put a little White Wine, and a Piece of Butter 
rolled in Flour to thicken it. 

Portugal Beef. 

BROWN the Thin of a Rump of Beef in a Pan of 
brown Butter, and force the Lean of it with Sewet, 
Bacon, boiPd Chefnuts, Anchovies, an Onion, and feafoti 
it ; ftew it in a Pan of ftj-ong Broth, and make for it a Ra- 
£00 of Gravy, pickled Gerki«i5, and boiPd Chefnuts ; thicken 
at with brown Butter, and garnifti it with flic'd Lemon. 

^0 Jlfw a Rump, or fat End of a Bri/cuit of Beef,. th& 
French JVaw 

AFTER having boil'd a Rump of Beef, fKim it clean, 
let it be clofe cover'd, and ftew'd for an Hour ; then 
jDut to it Salt, whole Pepper, Cloves, and Mace, llafh the 
Meat with a Knife to let out the Gravy j then put in fome 
Claret, and f ve or fix flic'd Onions ; when they have boil'd 
an Hour, put in fome Capers, or a Handful of Broom. Euds, 
and having boil'd half a Dozen Cabbage Lettuces in W^ater, 
put them into your Meat, wich two or three Spoonfuls of 
Wine Vinegar, and as much Verjuice : Let all ftew together 
till the Meat is tender, then put Sippets of Frevch Bread ia 
the Difh, and difli it on them ; take the Fat off the Broth,, 
and flick it with fry'd Bread. 



Cakci 



ne Lady's Companion. 1S3 

Cakes of Beef to be fryd^ 

CHOP fome of the tendered Part of the Pecf very 
fmall, and bruile it as much as for Smifages, mix afufR- 
cient Quantity of clean Eeef-ievvet with ir. feafon the Mifti 
with Salt, Pepper, and a Sprig of Thynne : then beat up an 
Egg, or two, accordirg to the Quantity of your Meat, and 
mix the Whole well together in the Form of Cakes, and fry 
them in their own Gravy. 

To flenu a Fillet of Beef the Italian Tojh'ion. 

TAKE the Skins ard Sinews from a Fillet of Beef, 
put it into a Bowl with White Wine, crufli it in and 
wafh it well ; then ftrew upon it a little Pepper, and a Powder 
called the Itallun Ta^rara, (which is made of one Ounce of 
Coriander-feed, half an Ounce of Fennel ieed, half an 
Ounce of Annifeed, an Ounce of Cinnamon, and an Ounce 
of Cloves, beaten into ^grofs Powder, with a little Powder 
of Winter-favoury ; thefe all kept in a Glafs Vial) and as 
much Salt as will feafon it ; mingle them all well together, 
and put in as much White Wine as will cover it ; put a Board 
on it to keep it down, and let it lie in fleep for two Nights 
and a Day ; then take it out, and put it into a Stew-pan, 
with fome good Broth that is falc, but none of the Pickle j 
put in whole Cloves, and Mace, cover it clofe, let it flew 
till it is tender, then ferve it with as much of the Broth as 
will cover it. 

To Jle^v Beef in Gobbets the French Tajhlon. 

GE T any Piece of Beef, except the Leg, cut it in 
Pieces as big as Pullets Eggs, both of Fat and Lean ; 
ftew it in a Stew-pan with Water, Ikim it clean, and when 
it has boiled an Hour, put in Salt, whole Pepper, Cloves, 
and Mace, Carrots, Turnips, Parfnips, and whole Onions, 
cover k clofe, and let it ftew till it is tender, putting in half 
an Hour before it is enough, Parflcy, Thyme, fweet Mar- 
joram, Spinach, Sorrel, and Winter-favoury, and fome Cla- 
ret ; then d-ifti it on Sippets, and lenx it to Table hot. Gar- 
nifti with Barberries, Grapes, or Goofeb^rries, 



Olives 



184 ^^^ La D y's Companion; 

Olin)es of Bqq^ Jieixed, or rcajied, 

CUT Slices off a Buttock of Beef as broad as your 
Hand, hack them with the Back of a Knife, lard them 
with fmall Lard, and feafon them with Salt, Pepper, and 
Nutmeg ; then make a Farce of the Yolks of hard Eggs, 
Beef-fevvet, or Lard, f.veet Herbs, Thyme, and Onions, all 
minc'd fmall. Barberries, Grapes, or Goofeberries, minc'd 
fmall likewife, and feaion'dwith Salt, and the former Spices ; 
mix thefe well together, and lay it on the Slices of Beef, roll 
them up round with fome Caul of Mutton, or Veal ; bake 
them, or roaft them, then put them into a Stew-pan with 
fome Butter; blow^ the Fat from the Gravy, and put the 
Gravy into the Stew-pan ; and having, in the mean Time, 
blanched and boiled Artichoaks, Potatoes, or Skirrets, in 
Claret, put them into your Meat, diih them on Sippets, and 
ferve them with Slices of Orange, Lemon, Barberries, and 
Grapes, or Goofeberries. 

J Way of eating cold boiled Beef. 

SLICE your Beef as thin as poffible, and alfo an Onion 
or Shalot, then fqueeze on it the Juice of a Lemon or 
two, and beat ail together between two Plates as you do Cu- 
cumbers ; when it is well beaten, and taftes fharp of the Le- 
mon, put it into a deep Di(h, pick out the Onion, and pour 
Oil on it, fhred fome Parfiey, and itrew over it ; garnilh it 
with Lemon, and ferve it up. 

7o ftetAj a Leg of Beef. 

YO U muft break it, then put to it two or thfee Quarts 
of Water, Salt, whole Pepper, and a Bunch of fweet 
Herbs ; then let it Hew for feven or eight Hours ; then pour 
out all, both Meat and Broth into a Pan, and let it Hand till 
the next Day ; then fet it on the Fire again, and put in a 
Quart of Ale, and let it boil about half an Hour ; then take 
it off, and put it in a Difh with Toafts upon it. 

Beef RcyaL 

TAK E a Surloin, or large Rump of Beef; bone it and 
beat it very well ; then feafon it with Salt, Pepper, 
Nutmeg, Cloves, and Mace, with Lemon-peel, Thyme, Sa- 
voury, and Marjoram ; then lard the Meat quite through 
■'with large Pieces of Bacon ; in the mean Time, m.ake a 
Urong Broth.,pf the Bones ; then put into your Stew-pan a 

good 



ne L A D y's C O M P A N I N, I 85 

good deal of fweet Butter, and brown it ; then put in the 
Meat, and brown it on both Sides ; then put in the Liquor 
with the Butter, put in two Bay-leaves, fix Truffles, Ox- 
palates, or Sweetbreads, pull'd in Pieces ; and cover the 
Stew-pan clcfe, letting it Hew till it is tender, then take it 
out, and fkim oft all the Fat ; then pour in a 1 int of Claret, 
and put in three Anchovies ; then put the Beef in again to 
be made thoroughly hot, and add what Pickles you have, 
with fry'd Oyfters, thicken your Sauce, and pour over the 
Meat, and fend it up. It. is to be eaten hot or cold. 

Beef a la Vinagrette, 

GE T a large Slice of Beef three Inches thick, moll lean; 
from the Buttock, or ellewhere ; flew it with Water, 
and a Glafs of White Wine, feafon'd with Salt, Pepper, 
Cloves, a Faggot of Herbs, and a Bay leaf ; let it boil till 
moil of the Liquor is boiled avvay ; then fet it a cooling, 
and when it is cold, ferve it up, with Slices of Lem©n, and 
a little Vinegar. 

To fQufe Beef. 

GE T either Buttock, Chuck, or Brifcuk of Beef; fea- 
fon them with Salt and Pepper for four Days ; then 
roll them up as even as you can; then tie a Cloth fall about 
it, and boil it in Water and Salt till it is tender ; then take 
it up, and foufe it in Water, Vinegar, a little White Wine, 
and Salt ; then put it into a Hoop Frame, to fafhion it round 
and upright; then dry it in fome fmoaky Place, or in Air : 
When you ufe it, cut it out in Slices, and ferve it up with 
Sugar and MuHard. 

To make Dutch Beef. 

GE T eight Pounds of Buttock of Beef, without Bone, 
and rub it all over with aboAit fix Ounces of coarfe Su- 
gar, let it lie two Days, then wipe it a little, and take a Pint 
of white Salt, a Pint of Salt-petre, and fix Ounces of Petre- 
fait, beaten, and rub it well into the Beef ; then let it lie for 
three Weeks, turning and rubbing it every Day ; then fe\V 
it up in a Cloth, and hang it "up in the Chimney to dry ; let 
it be turned upfide down every Day, that the Brine does not 
fettle ; afterwards boil it in Pump Water till it it very ten- 
der. 



Another- 



i86 ^he Lad y 's Com pan ion. 

Jnother Way to dry Eeef after the Dutch Manner. 

CUT the beft Part of the Btittock of a fat Ox inta 
what Shape you pleafe ; then take an Ounce of Petre- 
falt, and as much good Bay-fak as will fait it very well, and 
let it ftard in a c Id Ce'ilar ten Days in Salt, in which Time 
you nr.cit turn it, and rub the Salt in ; then take it out of the 
B ine. and hanp it in a Chimney, where a Wood-Fire is 
kept for a Nkn^h, in which Ti.ne it will be dry, and will 
keep a Twelve-nio: rh. V/hen you eat it, boil it tender, 
ai d uhen cold, cut it 'n thin Shivers, and eat it with \'ine- 
gar, Breau and Butter. 

Palates if ^^zi en gratin. 

SOME rafp.d Pa. • eOr. being put in the Bottom of 
you Difh, with a httle Cullis, put in your Palates, pour 
fomc v.uius, and Itrew fome Parm^fan over them, then fend 
youi Dilh to the Oven to ?et a Colour, and when that is 
done, add fon.e Efitiice of Kam and Juice of Lemon. 

fillers of Vtit^ after the Indian Way, 

PREPARE a Fdlet of Beef, lard it with middling Ba- 
con, and fhce it on the Side it is not larded ; then ma- 
rinate your Fillet duiing tv»o Hours, with Salt, Pepper^ 
fwcet Herbs, Garlick cut fmal), the Juice of two Lemons, 
and a Glafs of good Oil. Put your marinated Fillet, wrap- 
ped up in Papers, upon a Skewer, tie this to the Spit, and 
bafie it with your Marinade, which mull be mix'd with a 
Glafs of White Wine. Your Fillet being done, take off 
the Paper, diih it up wicli Sauce, and ferve it hot for a firlt 
Couife. 

-<^ Dutch Way ofdrfffng Beef, called Pater-Stuck-Gherockt. 

IT is a Brifcuit of Beef ioaked eight Days in Brine, and 
then hung up for three Months. It is then to be wafn'd. 
in feveral Waters to get the Salt out, and boiPd with Cauli- 
flowers, Cabbage, Spinach, and thicken'd Butter ferv'd with 
it. It may be like wife ftew'd with Carrots. 

Roaft Beef nvith a Salpicon. 

ASalpicon is a Sort of P.agoo, fo calPd, and is ufed in 
great Difhes of Roaft Meat, in the fxrft Courfe, fuch 
as Chines of Beef, or Mutton, Barons of Beef, and Quarters 
©f Mutton, or Veal, C^r. It is made as follows : 
\ Pre- 



ne Lad y's Com PAN I ON. iZy 

' Prepare fome Cucumbers, cut them i;i Dice, srid lay them 
in a Diih to i)':arinate in Vinegar, Pepr^r, and Sslt, and an 
Onion or two cu-t in Slices ; cut fome of the Lean of Ham 
or Bacon in Dice ; take fome Mufhrcoms and Truffl/^s, the 
Breads of Pullets, fat Livers and Vc3l Sweetbreads. Squeeze 
the Cucuii.bers, tofs them up ir a Souce-pan over a Stove 
with a little melted Bacon ; mcillen tliem with Gravy, and 
let them fimmer in it over a gentle Fii e ; then take the Fat 
clean off: Set over a Stove another Sauce-pan with a little 
melted Bacon, into which y^ut the Ham you had cut in Dice, 
a few Gives, and a little Parfley. Mince the Mufhroorrs, 
Truffles, Sweetbreads, . id tofs up all the Ingredients toge- 
ther, and then moiften them with fome Gravy, feafon them 
with Pepper, Salt, and a Bunch of Herbs; and v.hen they 
have fimnrker'd a-v» hiie in it, take off all the Fat ; when 
they are almoft en jugh, put to them the fat Livers, and the 
Breafts of your Pullets cut in Dice; then bind your Salpicon 
with fome Cullis of Veal and Ham, and fome Eifencc of 
Ham. When rhe Cucumbers are ready, bind them likevvife 
with the fame Cullis, and put the Whole into the fame 
Sauce-pan ; that is to fay, put the Ragoo of Cucumbers into 
the Salpicon. 

Make a Hole in your Piece of Roaft-meat, in the Part you 
think moft convenient : For Example, if it be a Quarter of 
Veal, or Mutton, make it in the Leg, and having taken out 
the Flefii, that may ferve for fome other Ufe, put the Salpi- 
con in the room of it. 

A Salpicon may be ferv'd in a Dilh by itfelf. 

To bake a Leg ^ Beef. 

DO it in_ the fame Manner as for Gravy Soops ; and 
when it is baked, drain it through a coarfe Sieve : 
Pick out all the Sinews and Fat, put them into a Sauce-pan, 
with a little Gravy, Red V/ine, a Bit of Butter roU'd in 
Flour, and fome MuHard, when the Sauce is hot and thick, 
ferve it up. 

To roaft a Tongue and Udder. 

BOIL the Tongue a little, blancli it, and lard it with 
Bacon, the Length of an Inch, being frft feafon'd with 
Nutmeg, Pepper, and Cinnamon, and f:.uff the UJder full 
of Cloves ; then fpit and roaft them, balk then: with Bat- 
ter, and ferve them up with Claret Sauce. Garnifh witli 
fJc'd Lemon. 

Anothtr 



iS8 57?^ Lady's CompanioiV. 

Another Way. 

BOIL it a little, blanch it, lard it, with pretty big Lard^ 
all the Length of the Tongue, as alfo the Udder, being 
lirlt feafon'd with Nutmeg, Pepper, Cinnamon, and Ginger; 
then fpit and roaft them, and bafte them with Butter j being 
roafted, drudge them with grated Bread and Flour, fome of 
the Spices aboveLid, and fome Sugar, and lerve it with Juice 
cf Oranges, Sugar, Gravy, and flic'd Lemon on it. 

A Neat's Tongue the Polifh Way. 

TA KE a Neat's Tongue, put it in boiling Water, take 
off the Skin, and let it be done in a Braife ; - when 
your Tongue is boil'd, cut it in two, but not quite off, and 
Hick it with preferv'd Lemon, and Slices and Bits of Cinna- 
mon ; put a Bit of Sugar in a Stew-pan over the Fire, with 
a Glafs of Wine, and a little Gravy ; the Sugar being melt- 
ed, put in your Tongi e, let it ftew a little while, dilhi it up 
with your fweet Sauce, and ferve it up hot. 

Neat's Tongue another Way, 

TH E Tongue being done in a Braife, lard it with 
fine Bacon, and put it on a Spit ; when roafted, difh 
it up, pouring over it a thick Pepper-fauce, or a fweet 
Sauce. 

To fry a Neat's Tongue. 

FIRST boil it, then cut it into thin Slices, feafon it 
with Nutmeg, Cinnamon, and Sugar, dip your Slices of 
Tongue into Yolks ol" Eggs, adding a little Lemon-juice ; 
make fome Butter very hot in a Frying-pan, fry your 
Tongue, and pour Eggs by Spoonfuls ; and when they are 
done, ferve them up with White Wine, Butter, and Sugar,' 
well beaten together. 

Another Way. 

BEING prepared, and cut into Bits, as before, put to 
them fome fry'd Onions, and ftew them with Mufh- 
rooms ; feafon them with Mace and Nutmeg, rub the Difh 
with a Shalot, and ferve them up on Sippets, 



Qx 



^'he Lady's Companion. 189 

Ox Tongues a la Mode. 

HAVING large Ox Tongues, boil them tender, tlien 
blanch them, take off the Skin, and lard them on 
both Sides, leaving the Middle, then brown them of^ and 
ftove them one Hour in good Gravy and Broth ; feafon with 
Spice and a Faggot of Herbs, and put in fome Morels, 
Truffles, Mullirooms, Sweetbreads, and Artichoak Bottoms ; 
then fkim off the Fat, and ferve them either hot or cold. 

Neats Tongues a la Braife, 

CU T away the Roots of the Tongues, and then put 
them into boiling Water, that you may take off the 
Skin as clear as poihble ; lard them with large Bits of raw 
Gammon of Bacon well feafon'd : Then take a Boiler, and 
cover the Bot'om of it with Lards of Bacon, and Slices of 
Beef well beaten : Lay in your Tongues with fiic'd Onions, 
and all Sorts of fweet Flerbs and Spices ; feafon them be- 
fides, with Pepper and Salt ; and cover them with Slices of 
Beef and Bacon, in the fame Manner as under them, fo that 
they may be entirely wrapped up in them ; put them to flew 
/? la Braife^ with Fire over and under : You muft keep them 
fo eight or ten Hours, that they may be thoroughly done : 
After which, you muil have in Readinefs a good Cullis of 
Mufhrooms, or fome good Ragoo, with all Sorts of In'rre- 
dients, as Mufhrooms, Morels, Truffles, Sweetbreads, ijc. 
Having taken up your Tongues, you drain them, and take 
oiF the Fat ; then lay them in a Difh, and your Ragoo over 
them ; if you would garnifh the Dilh, you may cut one of 
the Tongties in Slices, or elfe garnifh it with Fricandoes, all 
ferved very warm. 

Calves Tongues are fometimes drefs'd in the fame Man- 
ner ; and, if you will, they may be farc'd without larding, 
and ferved up with the fame Ragoo. 

To boil a Neat's Tongue. 

LE T your Tongue be faked three or four Days, boil it 
in Water, and ferve it with Brewis, with boiled Tur- 
nips, and Onions ; run it over with beaten Butter j ferve 
it on carved Sippets, with Barberries, Goofeberries, or 
Grapes, and ferve it with what Sauce you pleafe. 



Ta 



1^0 The Lady's Companion. 

To fry a Neat's Tongue, or any other Tongue. 

LET your Tongue be frelh, boil it tender, fet it by to 
be cold ; then cut it into thin Slices, fry it in Butter, put 
to it ftrong Broth, Salt, Nutmeg grated, the Yolks of Eggs, 
Saffron, Cloves, and Mace, foaie Verjuice, and Grapes; 
when the Tongue is done, difh it on Sippets. 

To roaji a Neat's Tongue. 

YO U mull boil a Neat's Tongue tender, peel the Skin, 
fet it by till it is cold, cut a Hole in the Root-end of 
it ; take out fome of the Meat, mince it with Beef- fe wet 
and Pippin, and the Yolks of hard Eggs ; feafon it with Salt, 
beaten Ginger, Thyme, and Savoury fhred fmall ; fill the 
Tougue with this Farce, and cover the End with a Piece of 
a Caul of Veal or Mutton, lard the Tongue, and roaftit ; 
make a Sauce for it with Butter, Juice of Oranges, and Nut- 
meg grated. Garnifn with Barberries, and Slices of Lemon, 
and fer ve it up. 

Another Way, 

YO U mull: boil it in Water with a little Salt, and a Fag- 
got of fweet Herbs : When it is alraoft enough, cut off 
the Pvooc, take off the Skin, and lard it with long Bits of Ba- 
con, then lay it down to the Fire, and while it is roafling 
baite it with Butter, Salt, Pepper, and Vinegar. When it is 
roafted, cut it in large Slices, and tofs it tip in a Stew-pan 
with a Ramolade made of Anchovies, Capers, Parfley, 
and Onions, fhred very fmall ; then tofs all up in good Beef- 
Gravy, with Salt, Pepper, a few Rocamboles, and a Drop of 
Vinegar, and ferve it for the firil Coufe. 

We ferve it likewife, after having cut it in Slices, with a 
Ragoo of Mufhrooms, Sv, eetbreads, Artichoak Bottoms, Salt, 
Pepper, Butter, or melted Bacon : We fet it a fimmering in 
this Ragoo, and fo ferve it, but obferve, that when we ferve 
it this Way, we ufe no \^inegar in bailing it but only Butter. 

Calves Tongues are drels'd in the fame Manner, and may 
be ferv'd whole, either with a Pitjrade, or a fweet Sauce. 

To Jicw a Neat's Tongue ivhok, 

TAKE a Neat's Tongue raw and frefh, fet it a dew- 
ing between two Difnes, in ilrong Broth and V/hite 
Wine, v.'ith Salt, whole Pepper, whole Cloves, and Mace, 
Turnips, Carrots, or any other Roots cut, and fome Capers j 
Cet thefe over a gentle Fire, and let them ftew gently fcT two 

or 



7he Lady's Companion. 191 

•r three Hours ; then take up your Tongue, blanch it, put 
feme Marrow to it, let it hare a Walm or two, and ferve it 
or carv'd Sippets. Garniih with minc'd Lemon, Baiberries' 
or Grapes, run it ovsi with beaten Lutter. Garnilh with 
fcai'd Manchet, and lerve it up hot. 

To hajh Neat's Tongues. 

OIL them very tender, peel them, and flice them thin > 
_ then take ftrong Meat-Broth, blanched Chelhuts, a Fag- 
got of fweet Herbs, large Mace, and Endive, a little Pepper, 
whole Cloves, and a lit. le Salt, boil all together till they be 
enough, -vvith lojie Butter, and pour all into a Difh on Sip- 
pets. Garnifh with Barberries. 

Another Way to diefs a Neat's Tongue. 

BO I L it in Salt and Water, with a Bunch of fweet 
Herbs ; when it is enough, blanch it, and cut off the 
Root, lard it with Bacon ; then roail and bafle it with But- 
ter, Salt, Pepper, and feme Vinegar ; when it is roailed, cut 
it in Slices, and tofs it up in a Stew-pan a Minute, or two, 
with Anchovies, Capers, fome Parfley, and an Onion cut 
fmall, then tofs up all in good Beef-Gravy, with Salt, and a 
little Vinegar, fo ferve it hot. 

To fickle Tongues. 

YO U muft iriake your Pickle with Salt-petre and Sal- 
prunella ; to fix Quarts of Water put one Ounce of 
each, and half a Pound of Bay-falt, a Pound of White Salt, 
and a Quarter of a Pound of coarfe Sugar j boil all thefe to- 
gether till the Scum rifes ; let it be very llrong, fkim it 
clean, and when it is cold, put the Tongues to it, and let 
them lie at their full Length to be covered ; turn them thres 
Times a Week, let them lie three Weeks, and then you may 
boil and peel them ; eat them with Chickens or Pigeons, 
and Aiparagus, Colliflowers, Spinach, or what is in Seafon. 
You may keep them in Pickle as long as you pleafe, or rub 
them in Bran, and hang them in your Chimney. 

To drefi a Neat's Tongue the Italian Way, 

BOIL your Tongue in a Pipkin, either whole, or cut In 
Halves, till it may be blanch'd, put in fome ftrong 
Mutton-Broth, and two or three Blades of Mace, White 
Wine, and fome Slices of interlarded Bacon ; fkim it when 
it boils, and put to it Pepper, Ginger, Nutmeg, and large 

Mace, 



1^2 ne Lady's Companion. 

Mace, three or four whole Clo\'es, let it all flew well, and 
ferve it on Slices of F/tJich Bread. 

7o dry Neats Tongues. 

BEAT Salt arid Salt-petre very fine, an equal Quantity 
of each, lay the Tongues in Pump Water all Night, 
rub them very well with the Salt, and cover them all over 
with them, iliil putting on more as they wafle ; when they 
are fiift and hard they are enough ; then roll them in Bran, 
and dry them before a gentle Fire; before you boil them, 
lay them in Pump Water all Night, and boil them in Pump 
Water. 

Another Way. 

BE A T Salt and Salt-petre, of each a like Quantity, 
into a fine Powder, foak the Tongues in warm Water, 
and rub the Salts very well into them, efpecially at the 
Roots, put them in a Pot, cover them over with the Salts -, 
and as the Salts wafte, put Sugar upon them, turning them 
frequently till the Sugar has penetrated j and when flifF, 
dry them before a Fire, or hang them up in a Chimney j 
when they are dry'd, prefs them liattim, and length-v.-ays, 
lay them up dry. 

Tongues ivlth forced Udders roajled, 

YO U muil: firil boil off your Ox Tongues, and your 
Udders, then make a good Forc'd- meat with Veal; 
and as for your Tongues you muft lard them, and your Ud- 
ders you muft raife in the Infide, and fit them with Forced- 
meat, wafhing the Infide with the Yolk of an Egg; then 
tie the Ends clofe, fpit and ro aft them : Make a Sauce with 
Syrup of Claret or Gravy. You may draw the Udders on 
the Top with Lemon-peel and Thyme, 

To drefi Neat's Tongue atid Udder in Stoffado. 

SEASON them with Salt, Pepper, and Nutmegs, lard 
them with large Lardoons, and let theni lay all Night in 
Wine Vmegar, Claret, Ginger, feafoned with Salt, whole 
Pepper, Nutmeg fliced, and whole Cloves ; bake them in 
an earthen Pan, and ferve them on Sippets, lay the Spices 
verthem, and fome Slices of Vernon and Saufages. 



^<» 



TZ'^ L AD y's Com PA N ION. i^^ 

To marinate Neats Tongues. 

BOIL them, blanch them, lard them, if you {ileafe, put 
them in a Vefiel ; make a Pickle of Nutmegs and 
Ginger flic'd, large Mace, whole Cloves, a Bunch of fvveet 
Herbs, Parfley, fweet Marjoram, Rofemary, Thyme, Win- 
ter-favoury. Sage, and Bay-leaves ; boil thefe in as much 
Wine Vinegar and White Wine as will iill the Vefiel you 
put your Tongues into ; put in fomeSalt and flic'd Lemons; 
when they are cold clofe them up for Ufe, ferve them with 
fome of the Liquor, Spices, Herbs, and Saliad Oil, and Slices 
of Lemon. 

To roaji a Neat's Foot. 

AFTER you have boil'd and blanch'd it, let it Hand 
by till it is cold, then lard it, fallen it on a fmall Spit, 
and balte it with Butter, Vinegar, and Nutmeg ; for the 
Saufe, toaft fome Bread, foak it in Claret and Vinegar, flraia 
it through a Strainer, put the iiiquor int6 a Pipkin, and put 
in a few flit Cloves, Ginger, and beaten Cinnamon ; fet it 
on the Fire, ftir this with a Sprig of Rofemary till it is pretty 
v/eli thicken'd : Difh your Foot, pour the fame on it, and 
ferve it up. 

To fry Neats Feet. 

BOIL your Neats Feet, blanch them, and fplit them ; 
then fry them in clarify'd Butter, or take out the Bones^ 
and fry them in Butter with a little Salt, and fome flrong 
Broth ; when you have fry'd them a little, put in fome Mint, 
Thyme, and Parlley, Ihred fmall, and fom.e beaten Pepper ; 
beat the Yolks of Eggs, Mutton Gravy, Vinegar, the Juic^ 
of Lemons, or Orange, and Nutmeg, pour the Sauce upou 
it, and ferve it up. 

To hake Ox Cheeks. 

BONE them, pick out the Balls of the Eyes, cleanfe the 
Mouth, foak them, walh out the Blood, wipe them dry 
with a Cloth, feafon them with Salt, Pepper, and Nutmeg, 
put^ them into an Earthen Pan with three or four large 
Onions, Mace, and Cloves ; lay the Jaw-bones on the Top 
of the Meat, then put in half a Pint of Water, and half a 
Pint of Claret j cover the Pan witn coarfe Pafte, and bake 
it. Serve it on fry'd Greens, and run it over with beaten 
Butter ; but the common Way is, in its own Liquor. 



Vol. I. K Jm^f^^er 



194 2"i&^ Lad y's Com PAN ION. 

Another Way. 

LA Y your Cheeks in Water all Night, then bone them, 
and llufF them with all Manner of Spice : Seafon them 
with Salt and Pepper, then put them into a Pan, one Cheek 
clapp'd clofe together upon the other ; lay over them Bay- 
leaves, and put in a Quart of Red Wine, fo cover the Pan, 
and bake them ; when you take it out of the Oven, pour off 
the Liquor, and take the Fat off, and mix it with fome melted 
Butter, and pour it over the Cheeks. Serve them cold with 
Muilard and Sugar, they will eat like Venifon. 

To boil an Ox- Cheek to be eaten cold. 

BO N E your Ox-Cheek well, then lay it to fteep in 
White Wine for twelve Hours ; then feafon it with 
Salt, Pepper, Nutmegs, Cloves, and Mace, roll it up, tie it 
tight v.ith Tape, boifit in Water, Salt, and Vinegar, till it \'s 
very tender ; prefs it hard, and when it is cold, cut it into 
Slices, and ferve it up with Oil and Vinegar. 

Another Way, 

BONE your Cheeks, lay them in foak for four or five 
Hours, then wafh and pick them very clean, pare off 
the Roof of the Mouth, and pick out the Bails of the Eyes, 
Huff them with Beef-iewet, hard Eggs, Salt, Pepper, Fat, 
and fv/eet Herbs, mingle all together^ and ftuff them on the 
In£de, ikewer boih the Sides of the Head together, and boil 
them among other Beef; when they are tender, ferve them 
on Brewis with interlarded Bacon, and Bohgnia Saufages, or 
Pork Links laid on the Cheeks ; cut the Bacon into thin 
Slices, and ferve them with Saucers of Muflard or green 
Sauce. 

To marinate Ox-Cheeks. 

BONE your Ox-Cheeks, then either roaft them, or 
Hew them with Red Wine and Wine Vinegar, feafon'd 
with Salt, Pepper, and flic'd Nutmeg ; Hew them till they 
are tender, then take them up, and put to the Liquor you 
llew'd them in a Quart of White Wine, and a Quart of 
Wine Vinegar, Sage, Parfley, fweet Marjoram, Thyme, a 
Bunch of Rofemary, and Bay-leaves, tie them up tight to- 
gether ; add Salt, v/hole Pepper, Nutmegs, and Gmger, 
Sic'd, Cloves, and large Mace ; boil all thefe together ; put 
the Cheeks into a Vcffel, and pour the Liquor upon them, 

lay 



51^^ L AD Y*s Companion. 195 | 

lay on them fome Slices of Lemon, cover them very clofe, 
and keep them for Ufe. 

To marinate Palates, Nofes, and Lips. 

AFTER having boird them tender, blanch them, then 
fry them in clarify'd Butter, or fweet Oil : Make for 
them a Pickle with Wine Vinegar, and Whitfe Wine, Salt, 
whole Pepper, Nutmeg, and Ginger flic'd, large Mace, and 
Cloves ; add a Faggot of fweet Herbs, as Sage, Parfley, 
Savoury, fweet Marjoram, Thyme, Rofemary, and Bay- 
leaves ; boil them all together. Spices and Kerbs, put the 
Palates, Lips, and Nofes in a Veffel, pour this Marinade to 
them ; add Slices of Lemon, and cover them clofe for Ufe. 
When you ferve them, do it in a Dilh with Sallad Oil. 

To roafi Ox-Palates. 

HAVING boiPd your Palates tender, blanch them, 
cut them into Slices about two Inches long, lard half 
of them Vv'ith fmall Lardoons ; then having drawn, fcalded, 
and trufs'd Pigeons, 2nd Chicken-peepers, lard half of them, 
fpitthemon aBird-fpit, putting a Sliceof interlarded Bacon, 
and a Sage-leaf betwixt every Bird ; take alfo Cocks-combs 
and Stones, and Lamb-flones parboil'd and blanch'd, large 
Oyilerc. parboil'd, and iarded with fmall Lardoons of Ba- 
con, Sage, a.d interlarded Bacon, fpit them with your Ox- 
Palates on a fmall Spit, with a Bit of Bacon and a Sage- 
•eaf between them ; then beat up the Yolks of Eggs with 
Salt, Nutmeg, Thyme, and Rofemary ihred very fmali, and 
grated Manchet ; and when they are hot at the Fire, bafte 
them often : In the mean Time, prepare Artichoak Bottoms, 
boird, quartered, and fry'd, dipped in Butter and kept warm, 
and alfo Marrow dipp'd in Butter and fry'd : Then rub the 
Dilh with a Clove of Garlick, pile up the Fowls in the Mid- 
dle of the Dilh upon one another, the roafted Materials round 
about ; then lay the Palates by themfelves, the Lamb-ftones 
by themfelves, the Cocks combs and Stones by themfelves, 
the fry'd Marrow and Artichoaks by themfelves, and the 
Sweetbreads by themfelves; then having prepared a Sauce of 
Claret, Gravy, Oy Her -liquor, with a Couple of dilTolv'd An- 
chovies, fweet Butter, Salt, and an Onion flit or quarter'd, 
giving it a Walm or two over the Fire, put in three or four 
Slices of Oranges, pour it on, and garniih it *vlth Oranges 
and Lemons flic'd. 

K 2 To 



1^6 ^he Lady's Companion, 

^lo J;e-xv Ox-Palates, Lips, and Nofes. 

BOIL them, blanch them, cut them into Bits about the 
Bignefs of a Shilling ; put them into an Earthen Pipkin 
with ftrong Broth and White Wine ; add raw Cah^es Udders, 
Veal S\veetbrer.ds, Saufages, and Sparrows or Larks, or 
ether imall Birds, Anchovies, or Potatoes boil'd j feafon 
with Salt, two or three whole Cloves, large Mace, fmall 
pickled Cucumbers ; add alfo Marrov/, Butter, Grapes, Bar- 
Ijerrics or Gcofeberries, and the Yolks of hara Eggs. Let ail 
thefe ilew together rill tender, then ferve them upon Toafts 
ci French Bread, and Sliccb of Lemon j you may thicken the 
Broth with Yolks of Eggs Urain'd with Vei juice. 

To pickle Ox -Palates. 

TAKE your Palates and waih them well with Salt and 
Water, and put them in a Pipkin with Water and 
fomc Salt, and when they are ready to boil, ikim them very 
well, and put into them whole Pepper, Cloves, and Mace, 
as much as will give then a quick Talle : When they are 
1:oird tender, v>hich will require four or five Hours, peel 
them, and cut them into fuiall Pieces, and let them cool; 
then make the Pickle of White W^ine V^inegar, and as much 
White Wine ; boil the Pickle, and put in the Spice that was 
boil'd in the Palates, with a little more frefn : Put in fix or 
feven Bay-leaves, and let both Pickle and Palates be cold 
before you put them together ; then keep them for Ufe. 

To roaji or bake a BuUcck's Heart. 

LARD it with large Slices of Bacon, and make a Stuf- 
fing of Winter-favoury, ftript Thyme, Parfley, fome 
Sevvet, a Couple of Anchovies, Salt, Pepper, Nutmeg, and 
eiated Bread, work all up with the Yoiks of a Couple of 
Eggs, and put i: into the Cavities of the Heart, fkewer it 
up clofe to keep in the Stuffing, and place it in a deep Diih, 
on a Couple of Skewers laid in the Diih to keep it from 
burning ; when baked enough, ferve it up with Gravy- 
Sauce. 

Mutton grilled nxith Capers. 

BO I L a large Breaft of Mutton tender, and after you 
have carbonaded it all over, feafon it with Pepper and 
Salt ; then wafh it over with Yolks of Eggs, Crumbs of 
Bread, a little Thyme chopp'd, and Parfiey, then broil it 

gently, 



The Lady's CoMPANiofr. 197 

aently. For Sauce take Butter, Gravy, Capers, Shalots, and 
Mangoes, or Muflirooms cut fn^.all. 

To ronft a Leg of Mutton ixiith Cockles. 

STUFF it all over with Cockles, and roaft it. Garnifn 
with Horfe-radilh. 

A Leg of Mutton a fa Hautgout. 

LE T- it hang a Fortnight in an airy Place, then h:]v« 
ready fome Cloves of Garlick, and fluff it sll over, 
rub it with Pepper and Salt, roaft it ; have fome good Gravy 
and Red Wmo, in the Difn, and fend it to Table. 

J Leg of Mutton a la Royals. 

HAVING taken off the Fat, and the Fiefli, fkin that ' 
which is about the Shank-bone, lard the Leg with large 
Lardoons well feafon'd ; lard like wife, at the fame Time, a 
round Piece of a Buttock of Beef, or of a Leg of Veal ; then 
feafon all this very well, drudge it with Flour, and put \\ 
into boiling Hog s Lard to give it a Colour : Then put it; 
into a Pot, with all Sorts of favoury Herbs, an Onion or 
two lluck with Cloves, and put in fome Broth or Water ; 
cover the Pot very clofe, and let it boil two Hours ; mean 
while get ready aRagoo of Mufhrooms, Truffles, Afparagus 
Tops, Artichoak Bottoms, and Veal Sweetbreads, to which 
put a good CuUis. Take up your Leg of Mutton, lay it in 
a Dilh, and cut your Piece of Beef, or Veal, into Slices, to 
make a Rim round your Mutton ; pour the Pvagoo hot upon 
it, and fo ferve away. 

Shoulder cf Mutton in Epigram. 

TA K E a Shoulder of Mutton and roaft it, take off the 
Skin as neatly as you can, about the Thicknef? of a 
Crown, leaving the Shank-bone to it ; then take the Meat 
and cut it in fmall thin Slices, the Bignefs of a Shilling ; 
then put it into a Cullis that is well fea'on'd, and take care 
not to let it boil \ then take the Skin of your Shoulder of 
Mutton, and put fome Crumbs of Bread, with fweet Herbs 
over it, and put it on the Gridiron, and when it has taken 
Colour, fee that your Hafii be well feafon'd, difh it up, put- 
ting on the broil'd Skin. 

I'hie fome call a Shoulder of Mutton in Gallimaufry. 



Mut- 



198 ^be Lady's Companion. 

Mutton Collops. 

YO U mud take fome Mutton that is well mortify M, 
that is. Hale, but fweet, take out the Skin and Sinews, 
and cut them fmall and thin, about the Bignefs of a Crown 
Piece, fuch a Quantity as you think will be enough for your 
Difn ; take a Stew-pan with fome Butter, and lay your Col- 
lops in, one after another ; take care they are very thin, and 
put a little Salt, Pepper, Spices, Parlley, and green Onions, 
chopped very fine, over them, with feme Truffles, or Mufli- 
rooms, and put your Stew-pan over a Fire that is very quick, 
and far them with a Spoon, and when you think they are 
cone, drefs them in the Diih you are to ferve them in : 
Then put in the Pan a little Cullis and Gravy, with a Ro- 
cambole, and when it is boil'd up, and a little thick, put 
in the Juice of a Lemon, and put it over your Collops, and 
ferve them up hot. 

J Harrico 0/ Mutton. 

TA K E a Neck, or Loin of Mutton, cut it into fix 
Pieces, feafon it with Pepper and Salt ; then pafs theih 
off on both Sides in a Fr 'ing-pari or Stew-pan ; put to them 
fome good Broth, a Faggot of- Herbs, fon e diced Carrots, 
or Turnips, fry'd off, and tv;o Dozen of Chefnuts blanch'd, 
and three or four fmall Lettuces ; ftew all this w ell together. 
You may put in half a Dozen fmall, round, whole Onions, 
and when very tender, Ikim off the Fat well, and feive away. 
Garniih with forc'd Lettuce, and Turnips, and Carrots 
ilic'd. 

Hind Saddle p/ Mutton. 

AFTER having cut ofr the two Hind Quarters of a 
Sheep, cut off the two Knuckles, that it may fet even 
on a Difn ; then take off the Skin as neatly and as far as 
you can towards the Rump, without taking it quite off, or 
breaking it : Then take fome lean Ham, Truffles, green 
Onions, Parfley, Tliym.e, fweet Herbs, Pepper, Salt, and 
Spices, well chopp'd together, and ftrew it over your Mut- 
ton, where the Skin is" taken off; then put the Skin over 
neatly, and wrap 'ft over with Paper well buttered, and tie it, 
and puc it to roaft, and being roafted, take off the Paper, 
and ftrew over Crum.bs of Bread, and when it is well 
Qoloured, take it off the Spit, difh it up, and put under it an 

Effence 



The Lady's Companion. 199 

Efience of Ham, or a Shalot Sauce, and ferve it up hot for 
the firll CouiTe. 

Hind Saddle ■-/ Mutton done a la St. Menehout. 

CU T your Muttort as above mentionM, and lard it with 
large' Lardoons of Bacon, feafon'd with Pepper, Salt, 
Tweet Herbs, fmall Onions, and Parlley, then garnifning an 
oval, or large Gravy-pan, that will hold ir, put at the Bot- 
tom fome Bards of Bacon, and Slices of Beef, put in alfo 
fome fmall Onions, Parfiey, and fweet Herbs, and then put 
in your Mutton, feafon'd with Pepper, Salt, and Spice, a 
Bottle of Wine, and ftrong Broth, and put the fame over it 
as under. Bards of Bacon, Slices of Beef, with a little Gar- 
lick and Bay-leaves, and put it a Hewing with Fire over and 
under ; and when done, take it out, and put it in the Dilh, 
pare it neatly, and put fome Crumbs of Bread over it, 
mix'd with Parmejan Cheefe, and put it in an Oven to take a 
good Colour, then ferve it up hot, with EiTence of Ham under 
it, for the firll Courfe. 

Leg of Mutton, Ham Fajhion. 

GE T a Hind Quarter, very large, and cut it like a 
Jigget, that is, with a Piece of the Loin ; then rub it 
all over with Bay-falt, and let it lie one Day ; then put it 
into the following Pickle : Take a Gallon of Pump Water, 
put into it two Pounds of Bay-falt, two of White Salt, fix 
Ounces of Salt-petre, and four of Petre-falt, one Pound of 
Brown Sugar, fix Bay-leaves, one Ounce of Salt Prunella : 
Mix all this in your Liquor, then put in your Mutton, and 
in feven Days it will be red through, then hang it up b/ 
the Handle, and fmoke-dry it v/ith Deal-duft and Shavings, 
making a great Smother under it, and in five Days it will 
be ready : You may boil it with Greens, and it will cut as 
red as a Cherry ; fo ferve it as you would a Ham. 

Amphilias of Mutton. 

GE T two Necks, or two Loins, bone them, leaving 
the upper top Bones on about an Inch ; then lard one 
with Bacon, the other with Parfley ; fkewer them, and you 
may either ftove or roaft them ; you may fry fome Cu- 
cumbers, and Hew them after, and lay under, or make a 
Sauce Robart with Onions, Muftard, Vinegar, Gravy, and lay 
under either flew'd Sellery or Endive, which you choofe. 

K 4 Tu 



soo ne Lady's Companion. 

*iQ farce a Leg of Mutton or Lamb. 

LE T all the Meat be taken out, leave the Skin whole ; 
then take the Lean of it, and make it into Force-meat 
thus : To two Pounds of your lean Meat, three Pounds of 
Beef-fevvet; take away all Skins from the Meat and Sewet; 
then fhred iDoth very fine, and beat it with a Rolling-pin, till 
you know not the Meat from the Sewet, then mix with it 
four Spoonfuls of grated Bread, half an Ounce of Cloves and 
Mace beaten, as much Pepper, fome Salt, afevvfweet Kerbs 
ihred fmall, mix all thefe together with fix raw Eggs, and 
put it into the Skin again, and few it up. If you roaft it, 
ferve it with Anchovy-Sauce ; if you boil it, lay Cauli- 
flowers or Trench Beans under it. Garniih with Pickles, or 
ilcw'd Oyilers, Forc'd-meat Balls, or Saufages fry'd in But- 
ter. 

Another Way. 

RO A S T a Leg of Mutton, and take all the Fiefh ofFit, 
leaving the Bones hanging together ; pick all the Fat 
from the Flelh, and hafh it with Marrow, a few Cives, the 
Crumb of a French Roll foak'd in Cream, and the Yolks of 
four Eggs ; feafon it as ufual, put the Bones into the Difh 
you intend to" ferve it in j then lay one Flalf of the Meat all 
round it in the Shape of a Leg of Mutton ; leave a Hole at 
the Top, and pour into it a Ragoo of Sweetbreads and Arti- 
choak Ecttorcs; then cover it with the other Half of your 
Farce, placing it as you did the former ; ftrew over crumb'd 
Bread ; fet it in the Oven ro make it of a fine Brown ; then 
take it out, and take oft the Fat that is round the Difh ,• 
make a little Kole on the Top, and pour in fom,e good 
Gravy ; then clofe the Hole, and ferve it hot to Table. 

Another Way. 

CUT a Slit on the Backfide of your Leg of Mutton, and 
take out all the Meat you can get, but don't deface it 
on the Outfide ; then take the Pvleat and chop and ihred it 
fine, with two or three Anchovies, fome beaten Mace and 
Nutmeg, a little Lemon-peel, one Onion, fweet Herbs, Salt, 
Pepper, Oy iters, and Marrow, pound all thefe in a Moitar 
very fine ; force your Leg with it, and few it up round the 
Edges to keep in your Force meat ; then put it in a Pan, 
vvafn it over with the Yolks of Eggs, and drudge it with 
Flour i lay Bits of Butter over it, and bake or roaft it ; 

then 



^he L A D y's C m p a n I If. 201 

then have ready ftew'd Oyfters in White Wine, with a Blade 
of Mace ; keep the largeft out to lay with Anchovy-Sauce, 
a few Mulhrooms, and a good llrong Gravy, and pour all 
over your Mutton. 

To roafi a Leg of Mutton. 

PA R E oiF all the Skin as thin as you can, then lard i^ 
with fat Bacon, and put it down to the Fire, when it i^ 
half roafted, cut off three or four thin Slices, and mince i^ 
with fome fweet Herbs ; then put it into a Sauce-pan, with a 
Ladlefal of Broth, half a Pint of Red Wine, a little beaten 
Ginger, a Piece of Butter, two Spoonfuls of Verjuice or 
Vinegar, fome Pepper, a few Capers, and the Yolks of two 
hard Eggs chopp'd fmall ; let 'em all {lew a-while, and wheiv 
your Leg of Mutton is enough, dilh it up, and pour this- 
Sauce over it. 

To boil a Leg of Mutton. 

YO U muft lard your Mutton with Lemon-peel and Beet- 
root, and boil it as ufual : For Sauce, take llrong Broth 
and White Wine, Gravy, Oyllers, Anchovies, an Onion, a 
Faggot of Herbs, Fepper, Salt, and Mace, and a Piece of 
Butter roird up in Flour. 

Amther Way. 

TA K E a Leg of Mutton, hang it for three or four 
Days with the Shank downwards, then take a coarfe 
Cloth and rub it very well with it, then few it up in a Cloth 
very tight, and bury it in Salt foraFortnight or three Week?, 
then take off the Cloth and boil it, with what Roots you 
think proper, and when it is cut a large Quantity of Gravy 
will iifue forth. 

To drefs a Leg of Mutton nvUh Cucumbers. 

FIRST marinate your Cucumbers, then tofs them up, 
and make a Ragoo of them, take fome Bacon, and 
brown a little Flour ; put to it fome good Gravy, a Dr@p of 
Vinegar, and a Bundle of favoury Herbs, and feafon all well. 
Ro'ifl the Leg of Mutton, and ferve it up with this Ragco. 

In the like Manner you may make a Ragoo of Succory, 
but take care the Succory turn not black in the X>it^iTi'^. 



Muttfp 



202 ^he Lady's Companion. 

Mutton Cutlets the French Way. 

SEASON your Cutlets with Pepper, Salt, Nutmeg, and 
fweet Herbs ; then dip two Scotch Collops in the Batter 
of Eggs, and clap on each Side of each Cutlet, and then a 
Rafher of Bacon on each Side again : Broil them, or bake 
them in a flow Oven ; when they are done, take off the Ba 
COR, and fend your Collops and Cutlets in a Ragoo, and gar- 
nifh them with flic'd Orange and Lemon. 

Cutlets a la Maintenon. 

CU T your Cutlets handfomely, beat them thin with 
your Cleaver, and feafon them well with a little Pepper 
and Salt; then cover them all over, except within two Inches 
of the Rib-bone, as thick as a Crown Piece, with fome 
Porc'd-meat, and fmooth it over with a Knife. This done, 
take as many Half Sheets of white Paper as you have Cut- 
lets, and butter the^.i, on one Side, with melted Butter : Dip 
your Cutlets likewife in melted Butter, and throw a little 
grated Bread on the Top of your Forc'd-meat all round : 
Lay each Cutlet on a Half Sheet of Paper crofs the Middle 
of it, leaving the Bone about an Inch out ; then clofe thjc 
two E^ds of your Paper on the Sides, as you do a Turnover- 
Tart ; cut off the Paper that is too much, broil your Mutton 
Cutlets half an Hour, your Veal three Quarters of an Hour : 
Then take off the Paper, and lay them round in the Difh, 
with the Bones outmoll : Let your Sauce be Butter, Gravy, 
and Lemon. 

Mutton, or Veal Cutlets, another Way. 

MARINATE your Cutlets for three Hours in Ver- 
juice, Juice of Lemon, Salt, Pepper, Cloves, Bayr 
leaves and Cives. Then make a thin Batter with Water, 
Flour, a raw Egg, and as much Butter as a Walnut mix'd 
together, and well beaten; dip your Cutlet- in this 'Batter, 
and fry them in Hog's Lard, Garnifh with fry'd Parfley, 
and ferve them for the firil Courfe. 

Another Way. 

FLAT your Cutlets with a Cleaver,' lard them and 
drudge them with Crumbs of Bread, Salt, Perpcr, and 
Ihred Parfley ; then tofs them up m melted Bacon, or clarir, 
fy'd Butter, and, when they are done of a pure brown Co- 
lour, lay them, in a Dilh, pouj on them a Ragoo of Sweet-. 

breads 



The Lad y's Companion. 203 

breads and Muflirooms. Garnilh with fry'd Parlley, and 
ferve them. 

Another Way. 

DI P your Cutlets in melted Bacon, feafon them well 
with fhred Herbs, Salt, and Pepper, llrew Crumbs of 
Bread over them, and broil them on a Gridiron. Serve them 
up with Gravy. 

Another Way. 

BOIL your Cutlets in Water, then dip them in a thin 
Batter, made of Flour and Eggs, then fry them in Lard ; 
and ferve them up with Salt, Pepper, and Vinegar, or Ver- 
juice. 

Or you may make a Hotch-potch of them with Turnips, 
^c. well feafon'd and boiPd in ilrong Broth : We generally, 
when we drefs them in this Manner, put Chefnuts among 
them. 

To hafo a Shoulder of Mutton. 

OUR Shoulder being half roafted, cut it in very thin 
Slices, then take a Glafs of Claret, a Blade of Mace, 
two Anchovies, a few Capers, a Shalot, Salt, a Sprig of 
Thyme, Savoury, and Lemon-peel ; let it ftand cover'd for 
half an Hour in an Oven ; and when enough, Ihake over it 
fome Capers, and ferve it up. 

To hafh Mutton. 

TA K E a roafted Leg of Mutton, take off all the Skin, 
and cut the Meat from the Bone in thin Slices, and 
firew upon it fome Parfley and Cives, with fome Truffies 
and Mufhrooms cut pretty fmall ; then put it all together 
into a Sauce-pan, with fome Pepper and Salt, and a Slice or 
two of Lemon, with the Rind take off. Put fome good 
Gravy, and give it two or three Turns over the Stove 5 
thicken it with a Cullis, and ferve it. 

Another Way to hajh Mutton. 

CU T your Mutton in little Bits, as thin as you can, 
ftrew a little Flour over it, have ready fome Gravy, 
(enough for Sauce) wherein fweet Herbs, Onion, Pepper, 
and Salt, have been boiPd -, llrain it, put in your Meat> 
with a little Piece of Butter rolPd in Flour, and a little Salt, 
a bhalot cut fine, a few Capers, Samphire^ and Gerkins, 

chopped 



204 ^^i'^ Lady's Com p A N I ON. 

chopp'd fine, and a Blade of Mace : Tofs all together for a 
Minute or two, have ready fome Bread toalled thin, and cut 
into Sippets, lay it round the Difh, and pour in your Hafh. 
Garnifh your Dilh with Pickles and Horfe-radifh. 

Note, Some love a Glafs of Red Wine, or Walnut Pickle : 
You may put jufl what you will into a Haih. 

A Halh of cold Mutton. 

GE T Gravy, Oyfter-liquor, Anchovies, and Nutmeg* 
according to the Quantity of Meat, and boil it up, 
then flrew in your Meat, and give it a Heat or two ; put in 
half a Pound of fweet Butter, and half a Pint of White 
Wine, and fend it to the Tr.ble. Garnifh the Difh with 
Rafpings of French Bread and Lemon. 

Carbonaded Mutton. 

GET a Joint of Mutton, cut it into Steaks, and fry 
them in melted Lard, then flew them in Broth, with 
Salt, Pepper, and Cloves, a Bunch of Herbs, and Mufh- 
rooms ; then flour it a little to thicken it. Garnifli the Difh 
with Mufhrooms and fry'd Bread, and ferve it with Capers, 
and a little Lemon-juice. 

To roll a P/eafl c/ Mutton. 

BONE the Mutton, and make a favoury Forc*d-meat, 
wafh it over with the Batter of Eggs ; then fpread the 
Forc'd-meat on it, and roll it into a Collar, and bind it 
with Packthread; roail it till enough, and put under it ii Re- 
galia of Cucumbers. 

"To foufe a Breafl of Mutton. 

TA K E a Breafl of Mutton, bone it, foak it well from 
the Blood, wipe it dry, and feafon it on the Infide 
with Salt, Nutmeg, and. beaten Ginger, fweet Herbs Ihred 
fmall, and Lemon-peel minc'd ; lay broad Slices of fweet 
Lard over ivit Seafoning ; then roll it into a Collar, tie it up 
in a Cloth, and put it into boiling Liquor, fkim it well ; 
then put in Salt, Nutmeg, and Ginger flic'd. Fennel and 
Parfley-roots : When it is almoil boiPd, put Ih a Pint of 
White Wine ; when it is enough, take it off, and put in 
Slices of Lemon, a whole Lemon-peel, and half a Score 
Bay-leaves, and let it boil clofe coverMj or you may bake it 
in a Pot with Wiiite Wine and Water, 

^9 



The Lady's Companion. lo^ 

To rcaji a Chine of Mutton. 

TA K E a Chine of Mutton, and having raifed up the 
Skin from the Chine-bone downwards, leave it hang- 
ing to the lower Part ; then take fome Slices of a lean Gam- 
mon of Bacon, fealbn with white Pepper, Cives, and Parf- 
ley ; fpread them over the Chine, lay Barbs of Bacon upon 
them, then turn the Skin over them j tie up your Chine 
with Tape or Packthread, put Paper over it, and roall it; 
when it is near enough, drudge it with Crumb-bread, put a 
Ragoo under it, and ferve it up to Table, garnilh'd with 
Mutton Cutlets. 

The fame may be done with a Quarter of Mutton, or 
Lamb. 

To drefs a Neck of Mutton. 

LARD the Neck with Lemon peel, boil it in Salt and 
Water, and a Bunch of fweet Kerbs : In the mean 
Time, flew half a Pint of Oyilers in half a Pint of White 
Wine, as much ftrong Broth, and a little of their own Li- 
quor, put in two or three Anchovies, two or three whole 
Onions, fome grated Nutmeg, and a little Thyme. Then 
take a little of the Broth, and beat in it the Yolks of three 
or four Eggs to thicken it ; then difh it upon Sippets, laying 
your Oyilers upon your Meat> Garnifh with Lemon or Bar- 
berries. 

After the fame Manner you may drefs a Chine, Leg, i^c, 

Another Way. 

E^ O I L it in Water and Salt, and fkim it well -, make 
I Sauce for it with Samphire, and a little of the Liquor, 
Vinegar, Mace, Pepper, an Onion, the Yolks of hard Eggs 
minc'd, fome fweet Herbs, and a little Salt ; let thefe boil 
together half an Hour or more, then beat it up with Butter, 
and Juice of a Lemon ; dilh your Meat on Sippets, and pour 
the Sauce on it j garnilh with the hard Whites of Eggs and 
Parfley minc'd together with flic'd Lem.on. 

You may drefs a Leg or Brealt of Mutton the fame Way. 



Another ^\ 



7 ^ 

^66 the Lady*s Companion. 

Another Way, 

DRAW your Neck of Mutton with Parfley, and roaft 
it: When it's almoft roafted, drudge it with Salt, white 
Pepper, and grated Bread. Serve it up to Table with Gravy, 
and the Juice of Orange. 

We alfo boil a Neck of Mutton, then dip it in a thin Bat- 
ter, fry it with melted Bacon, and ferve it with Verjuice and 
white Pepper. 

To Jieixj a Neck of Mutton. 

CU T your Neck of Mutton into Steaks ; feafon them 
with Salt, Pepper, and Nutmeg ; put them into a Stew- 
pan with as much Water as will cover them, let them flew, 
ikimming them as there is Occafion. In the mean Time, 
parboil Tome Cabbage, Carrots, and Turnips, drain them 
well, and when your Steaks are half ftev/'d, put in your 
Roots and Cabbage ; then put in a Handful of Capers, then 
flired fweet Herbs, Spinach, and Parfley, a Handful of each, 
and put them into the Stew, alfo a Couple of Anchovies 
chopp'd ; brown a little Butter, and fliake into it a little 
Flour, and a Ladleful of the Broth : Boil it up, and pour it 
over the Meat, and let all Hew together a little while ; when 
it is enough, lay Sippets in the Difli, put in your Stew, 
fqueeze in an Orange or Lemon or two, and ferve it up to 
Table. 

Another Way. 

CU T a Neck of Mutton into Steaks, and put them into 
a Stew-pan with fome Butter ; then take a Bunch of 
fweet Herbs, fome Pepper, and a little Salt, and put to them ; 
cover your Stew-pan, and let them ftew till they are enough, 
turning them fometimes, then put in a little Red Wine, two 
Anchovies, and a Spoonml of Vinegar. Difli your Steaks 
upon Sippets, and pour over them the Liquor they were 
ftew'd in. 

A Neck, or a Loin of Mutton, in Cutlets, 

FIRST cut all the Steaks out, and hack them; feafon 
with Salt, Pepper, Nutmeg, Parfley, Thyn e, and Mar- 
joram, choop'd fmall, and ftrew over them fome grated 
Bread ; waQi them over with drawn Butter, and lay them 
on white Paper butter'd, and made up like a Dripping-pan, 
that it may not boil over ; then put them over a Charcoal, 
3r Wood Fire j and for Sauce take Gravy, White Wine, 

two 



The Lady's Companiom, 207 

two Anchovies, with a little Lemon-peel or Orange, mincM 
fmall, cut it into Vv^ater, boil all up together, and £tir in 
feme Butter ; difh your Cutlets, and pour over them your 
Sauce. 

To fry Mutton Cutlets. 

CU T a Neck of Mutton Bone by Bone, and beat it flat 
with your Cleaver ; have ready Seafoning, with 
grated Bread, a little Thyme rubb'd to Powder, fhred Parf- 
ley, with grated Nutmeg, and fome Lemon-peel minc'd ; 
then beat up two Eggs with Salt, flour your Cutlets on both 
Sides, a, d dip them in the Eggs, fprinkle them with Seafon- 
ing on both Sides ] put fome Butter in a Frying-pan, and when 
it is hot lay in your Cutlets, and fry them brown on both 
Sides ; for Sauce take Gravy, or ftrong Broth, an Onion, 
fome Spice, a Bit of Bacon, and a Bay-leaf, and boil them 
well together ; then beat it up with Anchovy, or fome Oy- 
flers, and a Quarter of a Pint of Red Wine, and pour over 
your Cutlets, Garnifti v/ith pickled Walnuts cut in Quar- 
ters, Barberries, Samphire, pickled Cucumbers, and flic'd 
Lemon. 

To drefs a Leg of Mutton a la Dauphine, 

FL E A ofF all the Skin and Flefli of the Shank-bone, 
and alfo all the Fat, and fcrape it clean j then parboil 
it, and lard it with fm.all Lardoons of Bacon : Spit it, put 
Paper over it, and roafl it with a foft Fire ; fee that it be 
well coloured. When it is roafled enough, difli it, and ferve 
it up with fome Ragoo of Legumes, as Cucumbers, young 
Onions, or Succory; or with a good Culiis under it, or an 
Eifence of Ham. 

To drefs a Ug nf Mutton a la Daub, 

AR D it with Bacon, and half roaft it, draw it off the 
„ Spit, and put it in as fmali a Pot as will boil it, put to 
it a Quart of W^hite Wine, ftrong Broth, a Pint of Vinegar, 
whole Spice, Bay-leaves, fvveet Marjoram, Winter-favoury, 
and g-een On'ons ; when it is ready lay it in the Difh ; 
make Sauce with fome of the Liquor, Mufnrooms, flic'd Le- 
mon, two or three Anchovies ; thicken it with brown Butter, 
and garnifh with flic'd Lemon. 



u 



20S The Lady's Companion. 

7o drefs a Loin of Mutton. 

HAVING cover'd the Bottom of a Stew-pan with 
Bards of Bacon, lay on them Slices of Veal, and on 
the Veal, Slices of Onions ; then lay your Loin of Mutton 
upon them, and cover it with Slices of Onion, Veal, and 
Bacon, as under it. Seafon all with Salt, Spice, and fweet 
Herbs. Then fet the Stew-pan covered either between two 
Fires, or in an Oven ; when they come out, bread them, 
and broil them on a Gridiron. In the mean Time, prepare 
this Sauce call'd a Ramolade : Take Gives and Farfley, 
ihred them fmall, Capers and Anchovies, and flew them 
in good Gravy, with a Clove of Garlick, and other Seafon- 
ings ; put in a little Oil. When all is done, lay )our Loin 
in a Difh, pour Sauce upon it, and ferve it up hot. 

Mother Way. 

PARBOIL a Loin of Mutton, then lard it with large 
Lardoons, feafon with Salt and Pepper, a little Nut- 
, meg, fome Parfley, a few Cives, and Spices of all Sorts ; put 
fome Slices of Bacon and Veal in a Stew-pan, feafon with 
\ Salt and Pepper, favoury Kerbs, Slices of Onions, Carrots, 
j Farfnips, and fome Lemon ; feafon it over and under, cover 
J it with Slices of Bacon and Veal, fo flew it with Fire over 
- and under it. When it is enough, drain it very well, lay it 
in your Dilh, pour over it a Ragoo of a Breail of Mutton, 
Cucumbers, and Lettuce, and ferve it for iiril Courfe. 

I ^0 Jlc^v a Loin of Mutton. 

' ^^UT your Loin into Steaks, and put it into as much 
" V^ Water as will cover it ; when it is fkimrn'd, put to it 
^ thiee or four Onions fiic'd, with fome Turnips, whole Cloves, 
^ and flic'd Ginger ; when it is half ftew'd, put in ilic d Ba- 
^ con, and fome fweet Herbs minc'd fmall, a little Vintgar 
^ and Salt; when it is ready, put in Capers, and difh your 
Meat Uj^on Sippets; pour over the Liquor and Ingredients ; 
1 garniih with Barberries and ilic'd Lemon. 

J % rcaji a Lrg o/Mutton "Jjith Oyflers. 

^ ^"T^ A K E a little grated Bread, fome E-^ef-iewet, Yolks 
A or' hard L^gs, three Anchovies, a Bit of an Gidon, 
°^ Sait, Feppcr, Thyme, and Winter- favoury, twelve Oyflers, 
{Oiue iNuimeg grated : Mix all ihefe together, and fhred 
^^ thesa 



The Lady's Companion. 209 

them very fine, and work them up with raw Eggs like Pafte, 
and fluff' your Mutton under the Skin in the thickeft Place, 
or where you pleafe, and roaft it ; when it is about half 
done, cut off" Ibrne of the Underfide of the fleihy End in 
little Bits ; put thefe into a Pipkin with a Pint of Oyfiers, 
Liquor and all, a little Salt and Mace, and ftew them till 
half the Liquor be wafted. Then put in a Piece of Butter, 
and when the Leg is thoroughly roafled, difh it, pour this 
Sauce over it, ftrew Salt about the Sides of the Difh, and 
ferve it up. 

Another Ifay. 

YOUR Oyilers being £ril parboiPd, put to them fome 
Parfley, a little Thyme and Savoury Ihred imail, with 
the Yolks of three Eggs ; mix all thefe together. Your 
Shoulder of Mutton being fpitted, lay it on a DrefTer, and 
cut Holes in it, and put in your Oyfters with the Herbs, and 
other iBgredients after them, or place them behind the Flap 
of the Shoulder -, twenty Oyilers are enough ; then take a 
Pint of Oyfiers for Sauce, and put them in a deep Difli, with 
ibme Claret, two or three Onions ihred grofs, with two or 
three Anchovies ; put all thefe under in the Dripping-pan 
to fave your Gravy, and when your Meat is ready, put your 
Sauce over the Fire ; put to it the Yolk of one Egg beaten, 
grated Nutmeg, and drawn Butter ; dilh up your Shoulder 
of Mutton, and pour your Oyfter-Sauce all over it j garnilh 
with Lemon, and ferve it up hot. 

Another Way. 

CUT five or fix Holes to receive the Oyilers after they 
have been rolled in Eggs, with Crumbs of Bread and 
Nutmeg, and ftufi:' three hand fome Oyfters in every Hole. 
If you roaft it, cover it with a Caul, but if you boil it, tie 
it in a Cloth, and, while it is dreffing, prepare Oyfter- Sauce 
to ferve up with it hot. 

To drcfs a Shoulder of Mutton in Blood. 

SAVE the Blood of a Sheep, take all the Strings and 
Knots out of a Shoulder of Mutton, lay it in the Blood 
five or fix Hours to foak ; then fluff it with fweet Herbs, 
then put it into a Caul, fprinkle it with Blood, and roaft it. 
Serve it up with Venifon or Anchovy-Sauce, 



1:0 



2io ^he Lady's Companion. 

fo drefs Mutton the Turkiili Way. 

CU T your Meat into thin Slices ; then wafh it in Vine- 
gar, and put it into a Pot or Sauce-pan that has a clofe 
Cover to it, then put in fome Rice, whole Pepper, and two 
or three Onions ; let all thefe ftew together, (kimming it 
frequently; when it is enough, take out the Onions, and difh 
it with Sippets, and ferve it up. 

Shoulder of Mutton, nx^ith a Ragoo of Turnips. 

TA K. E a Shoulder of Mutton, get the Blade-bone taken 
out as neat as poffible, and put in the Place a Ragoo 
of Sweetb- cads, with Mufhrooms, Truffles, Cocks-combs, 
well feafon'd ; when done, let it be cold before you put it in, 
and take care to few it tight, that it may keep its natural 
Form, £:id put it in a Stew-pan, with fome Bards of Bacon, 
Slices of Veal and Ham, Onions, Parfley, Thyme, fweet 
Herbs, Salt, Pepper, Spices, with a Ladleful of Broth, and 
put it a doiT;g with Fire under and over -, then you mull have 
lomeTurmj5, cut in what Shape you think proper, and 
blanch then in boiling Water ; then ftrain them off, and 
let them be ^v^ii drain'd ; then put the a in a good CuLis, 
andlet'embt .oneenough; then take your Shoulder of Mut- 
ton out of tLo Braife, and fee it be well drained from all the 
Fat, difh it up, and pour over it your Ragoo of Turnips, and 
ferve it in the firft Courfe. 

Shoulder o/" Mutton a la Rourhi. 

TA K E a Fore-quarter of Mutton- t^ke out the Bones 
as neatly as you can from the Neck and Breaft, and 
lard the Fillet, not parting them from the Shoulder, and put 
it on a Spit to roaft ; and when it is done, put under it fome 
ilew'd Endive, and ferve it up hot, with the larded Part up- 
permofl, for the firft Courfe. 

Leg of Mutton larded a la Braife, 'with a Ragoo of Chef- 
nuts. 
TA K E off the Skin, and lard your Leg of Mutton with 
Bacon and Ham through and through, but feafon 
your Ham and Bacon well, tie it, and put it in a Braife ; 
then take fome Chefnuts, roaft them, and take off both 
Skins very clean, and put them in fome good Cullis of Veal 
and Ham, and put them over a flow Fire ; and when you 
find they begin to be very foft, fee they be well relifh'd, and 

put 



ne Lady's Companion. ' an 

put them over your Mutton, and ferve it hot for the firft 
Courfe. 

To make a Gammon of Mutton. 

TAKE a very large i?: Leg of Mutton, cut off the 
Knuckle-bone, take off the Skin, then fcick it with 
Cloves, Sage, and Bay-leaves ; then pound Pepper, Salt, 
Cinnamon, Nutmeg, Ginger, and Cloves ; put them into 
White Wine, with a Bunch of fweet Herbs, and lay your 
Mutton in this Marinade for twenty-four Hours, fetting it 
in a cool Place clofe cover'd : Then take out your Leg of 
Mutton, and powder it with Sage fhred fmall, and pounded 
with Pepper, Salt, Ginger, Nutmeg, Cinnamon, and Cloves, 
then take off the Skin of a frefliHam of Bacon, with feme 
of the Fat, and cover your Leg of Mutton with the Skin of 
the Ham, fevving it up round the Edges j then hang it up 
the Chimney for twenty -four Hours to be fmoak'd ; then 
boil it in five Quarts of Water, put in a Bunch of fweet 
Herbs, and a Quart of the clearefl: of the Wine in which it 
was marinated. When it is enough, take off the Swerd im- 
mediately, letting the Fat Hick to the Mutton, and ferve it 
up cold in Slices. 

To dry Mutton to cut out in Shivers as Dutch Beef,' 

TAKE half a Pound of coarfe Sugar, and rub it hard 
ail over a Leg of Mutton, and let it lie twenty-four 
Hours ; then take an Ounce and half of S^lt-petre, and mix 
it with a Pound of common Salt, and rub that all over the 
Mutton every other Day till it is all on, and let it lie nine 
Days longer ; keep the Place free from Brine, then hang it 
up dry three Days ; then fmoak it in a Chimney where 
Wood is burnt, the Fire mull not be too hot ; a Fortnight 
will dry it j boil it like Hams, and when it is cold, cut it out 
in Shivers like Dutch 'Qqq{. 

To d)y a Leg of Mutton like Pork. 

BE A T it down flattKh with a Cleaver, to make it like 
Wefphalia Ham ; then take fome Salt-petre and beat it 
line, and rub it all over your Mutton, and let it lie all 
Night ; then make a Pickle with Bay-falt and Pump-water, 
flrong enough to bear an Egg, and put your Mutton into it, 
and let it lie ten Days, then take it out, and hang it in a 
Chimney where Wood is burnt, till 'tis thoroughly dry, which 
will be about three Weeks. Boil it very tender with Fowls, 

or 



212 !r/^<? La D Y *s Com p A N ION. 

or eat it cold like Wejiphalia Ham. Do it in cool Weather, 
or it will not keep. 

I Sheeps Rumps njoith Rice. 

HAVING got Tome Sheeps Rumps, clean and blanch 
them, and put them a ftewing in a good Braiie ; and 
when they are enough, take themx out to cool ; then take 
fome Rice well walh'd and pick'd, put it in a Pot with fome 
good fat Broth, with an Onion ftuck with Cloves, a little 
Pepper and Salt, and fee it be well feafon'd, and very thick, 
and v/hen it is done, put it to cool \ then take your Sheeps 
Rumps, and put them raund the Rice as neatly as you can ; 
do them round in Eggs, and Crumbs of Bread over them : 
And when you have done them all, take a Frying-pan with 
fome Hog's Lard, put it over a Stove,, and when your Fat is 
, hot, put your Sheeps Rumps in it, and fee they be of a good 
jl Colour, and difh them with fry'd Parfley round. 

7*5 drefs Rumps cf Mutton a la Sauce Hohart, 

TAKE half a Dozen Sheeps P.umps cut large, boil 
them for three Hours in Water, and three or four 
Spoonfuls of Vinegar, feafond with a Handful of Salt, a 
Spoonful of Pepper and Cloves, three or four Onions, a Sprig 
or two of Thyme, and a Bay-leaf Put the Spice and Herbs 
in after the Pot has been fkimm'd : When the Rumps are 
boil'd tender take them out, and lay them in a Colander to 
" drain, fcore them on the Sides with a Knife, dip them in 
drawn Butter, roll them in grated Bread, and broil them 
brown : In the mean I'nne, make your Stance Robart thus : 
Put a Piece of Butter, the Bignefs of an Egg, into your Sauce- 
pan, fet it over the Fire till it is almoft brown, then put in 
a Handful of Onions minc'd very hne \ let them ftew gently 
till they are brown, then put in half a Spoonful of Flour ; 
let them itew a little longer; then put in a Ladle of Gravy, 
a little Salt and Pepper, let them boil for a Quarter of an 
Hour, Ikim off the Fat, and put in half a Spoonful of Muf- 
tard, the Juice of a Lemon, or a little Vinegar, pour the 
Sauce into your Diili, lay the Rumps upon it. Garnifh with 
fry'd Parfley, or Lemon, or both, and ferve it up for a firfi: 
Coiirfe. 



"To 



the Lady's Companion. 21 j 

To drefs Rumps 0/* Mutton a la St. Menehout, 

GARNISH the Bottom of a Stew-pan with Slices of 
Bacon, and then lay. over them Slices of Veal, reafon'd 
with Salt, Pepper, all Sorts of Spice, and fweet Herbs, and 
on thern Slices of Onions ; then lay in your Rumps, lay 
Slices of Onions upon them, Slices of V^eal on the Onions, 
and Slices of fat Bacon on the Veal j cover the Stew-pan 
.clofe, and either let ic in an Oven, or a la Brai/e between 
two fires : When the Rumps are enough, take them out, 
and drudge them •Aeli with grated Bread, and broil them 
on a Grid ron. While they are doing, make for them a 
Sauce called Ramolade, thus : Tofs up Anchovies, minc'd 
Capers, Cives, and Parfley, and a Clove of Garlick, in 
fome good Gravy, a little Oil, and with Salt, Pepper, and 
other common Seafoaiugs ; pour this Ramolade in the 
Difn, lay the Rumps upon it, and ferve them up to Table 
hot. 

To fo'ce and f y Rumps of Mutton. 

COVER the Bottorn of a Stew-pan with Bards of Ba- 
con, C5V. as in the Receipt above diredled, and ftew I 
them a Lx Braife, or bake them in an Oven. Then wrap :> 
them up in Foic'd-meat made as follows : Take a Pound of 
a Leg of Veal, half a Pound of fat Bacon, and half a Pound 
of Sewet, boil them for half an Hour, then throw them a 
little into cold Wa er, that your fat Bacon may not run to 
Oil in mincing. Then mince each of them feparately by 
themfelves very fine, then inince all together, and pound 
them well in a Marble Mortar, v/ith the Crumb of a French 
Roll, foaked in Milk or Broth, and four raw Eggs; feafon'd 
with Salt and Pepper, according to your Difcretion, a little 
Nutmeg, a little Parfley and Onion minc'd very fine. Have- 
ing pounded all thefe together to a Pafte, wrap the Rumps 
up in this Forc'd-meat, dip them in beaten Eggs, drudge 
them with Flour, and fry them in Hog's Lard, till they are 
of a fine brown Colour ; then dilh them, and ferve them up. 

Sheeps Rurnps ^ith Parmefan Cheefe. 

PU T your Sheeps Rumps in a good Braife, as before, 
and when done, put them to cool ; then take fome 
Crumbs of Bread very fine, and as much Parmefan Cheefe 
mix'd together, then take your Rumps and dip them in 
Eggs, and put the Crumbs of Bread and Parmefan Cheefe I 

over^l 



214 W^ Lad y's Companion. 

over ; and if you find that once doing over is not enough, do 
them twice, and fry them in good Hog's Lard, of a good 
Colour, and ferve them with fry'd Parlley. 

Mutton Kebob'd, 

TA K E a Loin of Mutton, and joint it between every 
Bone, feafon it with Pepper and Salt moderately, 
grate a fmall Nutmeg all over, dip them in the Yolk* of 
three Eggs, and have ready Crumbs of Bread and fweet 
Herbs, and dip them in, and clap them together in the fame 
Shape again, and put it on a fmall Spit, roaft them before a 
quick Fire, fet a Difh under, and balle it with a little Piece 
of Butter, and then keep balling with what comes from it, 
and throw fome Crumbs of Bread all over them as it is a 
roafting ; when it i? enough take it up, and lay it in the 
Difh, and have ready half a Pint of good Gravy, and what 
comes from it, take two Spoonfuls of Catchup, and mix a 
Tea-fpoonful of Flour with it, and put to the Gravy, flir it 
together, and give it a Boil, and pour over the Mutton. 

hbte, You mull obferve to take off the Fat of the Infide, 
and the Skin off the Top of the Meat, and fome of the Fat, 
if there be too much ; when you put in what comes from your 
Meat into the Gravy, obferve to pour out all the Fat. 

Carbonades of Mutton glazed, 

TA K E a Leg of Mutton, cut off as many Slices as you 
can, of an Inch thick, flatten them with a Cleaver, and 
lard them with fmall Bacon, as clofe as you can ; then put 
them a doing, as if they were Scotch Collops of Veal ; wnen 
they are done and glaz'd, put under them a Ragoo of Cu- 
cumbers, Lettuce, or Endive, and ferve them up hot. 

A Neck of Mutton larded nvith Parfley, 

TA K E a Neck of Mutton, pare it neatly, take off the 
Bones from the Fillet, lard it with Parfley, put it on 
a Spit and roaft it ; being roafted, take and difh it up, and 
ferve it with Shalot Sauce, or flew'd Endive. 

A Neck of Mutton, call'd, the hajiy Difh. 

TA K E a large Pewter or Silver Difh, made like a deep 
Soop-difh, with an Edge about an Inch deep on the 
Infide, on which the Lid fiixes (with the Handle at top) fo 
fafl that you may lift it up full, by the Handle, without fall- 
ine ; this Difh is calPd a Necromancer. Take a Neck ofMut- 
^ ton 



TJje Lady 's Companion. 215 

ton, about fix Pounds, take ofF the Skin, cut it into Chops not 
too thick, ilice a French Roll thin, peel and ilice a very- 
large Onion, pare and Ilice three or four Turnips, lay a Row 
of Mutton in the Di(h, on that a Row of Meat, then a Row 
of Turnips, and then Onions, a little Salt, then the Meat, 
and fo on ; put in a little Bundle of fweet Herbs, and two 
or three Blades of Mace j have a Tea-kettle of Water boil- 
ing, iill the Diih, and cover it clofe ; hang the Dilh on the 
Back of two Chairs by the Rim, have ready three Sheets of 
brown Paper, tear each Sheet into live Pieces, and draw 
them through your Hand, light one Piece, and hold it under 
the Bottom of the Difh, moving the Paper about ; as fail: as 
the Paper burns light another, till all is burnt, and your 
Meat will be enough ; fifteen Minutes jufl does it j fend it 
to Table hot in the Difh. 

^0 boil Sheeps Tongues nx)ith Oyllers. 

BOIL half a Dozen of Sheeps Tongues in Water and 
Salt, till they are tender , peel off the Skin, cut them 
into thin Slices, put them into a Stew-pan with a Quart of 
Oyilers, a little Red Wine, and fome whole Spice ; fet them 
a Hewing for fome Time ; then put to them fome Butter, 
and the Yolks of three Eggs well beaten ; fhake them well 
together, difh them on Sippets ; garnifh with raw Parfley, 
Barberries, and Oyllers, and ferve them up. 

^0 farce Trotters. 

AFTER you have fcalded your Trotters, boll them m 
good Broth, with a little Cives and Pariley j cut off the 
Claws, take out the Leg-bones, flitting the Skin the whole 
Length ; fpread them open, make for them a Forc'd-meat 
thus : Take a Pound of a Leg of Veal, half a Pound of fat 
Bacon, and half a Pound of Sewet, boil them for half an 
Hour ; then put them into cold Water, that the fat Bacon 
may not run to Oil in mincing : Then mince them very- 
fine, each by themfelves, mix them together, pound them in 
a Mortar, with the Crumb of a French Roll, foak'd in Milk or 
Broth, Salt, Pepper, and four raw Eggs, a little Nutmeg, 
Onion, and Parfley Ihred. When you have pounded thefe to 
a Pafte, lay this Forc'd-meat on your Trotters, roll them up, 
one by one, fprinkle them with melted Sewet, drudge them 
with Flour, and fet them in a Dilh or Pan in an Oven to 
brown j then drain the Fat from the.m, rub the Dilh with a 

Shalot^ 



2i6 ne Lady's Companion.' 

Shalot, pour to them fome Ragoo or Cullis of Mulhrooms, 
and ferVe them up hot in Plates or little Difhes. 

And her Way. 

WHEN they are farc'd as above, dip them in beaten 
Eg2;s, and drudge them with Flour, or Bread crumb'd 
very fmalirthen fry them in Hog's Lard, and ferve them 
with fry'd Pariley, in Plates or little Difhes. 

We ferve them likevvife with a White Sauce, toffing them 
up in melted Bacon, with Salt, Pepper, and Nutmeg, toge- 
ther v»'ith favoury Herbs, and whole Gives, which laft we 
take out before we ferve them ; whiten your Sauce with the 
Yolks of Eggs and Vinegar, or Verjuice. 

Sheeps Tongues larded. 

YOUR Tongues being larded with fine Bacon, put 
them on Skewers and roaft them ; being done, difli 
them up wich Pepper and Vinegar, or fweet Sauce, accord- 
ing to the jM after' s Palate, and ferve them up hot. 

. Sheeps Tongues the German Way. 

TAKE feme Carrots, cut them in pretty fmall Slices, 
put th«m in a Stew-pan with Gravy and Cullis, and 
let them ftew; then take your Sheeps Tongues, and let them 
ftew foftly with your Roots ; put in it a Glafs of White 
Wine, and fo let them foak ; let them be relifhing, difh them 
up, put your Roots over them, with their Cullis and Lemon- 
juice, and ferve them up hot for Entry. 

Sheeps Tongues in Papers. 

TAKE boil'd Sheeps Tongues, that are good and pa- 
latable, flit them in two, and make a little Forced- 
meat with a Bit of Veal, blanch'd Bacon, and a Bit of Beef- 
fewet ; feafon thefe with Parfley, green Onions, Muflirooms, 
fweet Herbs, iine Spice, Pepper, and Salt, and mince all well 
together. Then cut fome Paper big enough to wrap in your 
Tongues, take off your Force-meat, and put fome into your 
Paper ; put in it a Tongue, and after that your Force-meat 
over the Tongue, as you have done under it, and wrap it 
up as dextroufly as you can ; do the fame with all your 
other Tongues, place them in a Baking-pan, and let them 
be baked in the Oven, or under a Cover j being baked, difh 
them up, and ferve them up hot for a fmall Entry. 

Sheeps 



The Lady's C o m p a k i o n.' ' 217 

Shceps Trotters in Surtoat. 

TAKE Sheeps Trotters ; being bcii'd, cut them into 
Bits, and throw them into a Stew-pan, with a Lump 
of Butter, moiften them with Gravy and Cullis ; let thern 
have a good Tafte, and let them be cold ; being cold, cilh 
them up, cover them with a little Force-meat, very thin, 
and make them very fmooth ; ftrew over them Crumbs of 
Bread, let them have a good Colour in the Oven, or under 
aCover, and ferve them up hot. 

Another Time ilcw them with Parmefan Cheefe, and they 
mufi be but a little while in the Oven. 

Jn Entry of Sheeps Trotters forced. 

LE T your Sheeps Trotters be well fcalded, and let them 
itew in good Seafoning, taking care they be not over- 
<ione ; take tnem off, take out the Bones, ftretch the Skin 
upon the Drefier, force them, and roll them up one by one; 
then place them in a Difh, moiflen them with a little Fat, 
ftrevv them with Crumbs of Bread, ^c and let them take a 
Colour in the Oven ; being pretty brown, difn them up with 
a httle Cullis under them, and ferve them up hot for Entry. 

Thefe Trotters are alfo drefs'd with a white Sance, by put- 
ting them into a Stew-pan with melted Lard, fweet Herbs, 
green Onions, v/hich you muil take out again. Pepper, Salt, 
and Nutmeg ; thicken your Sauce with Yolks of Eggs and 
Verjuice, and ferve it up hot for a fmall Entry. 

To rooft a ^arfcr of Lamb. 

ONE Half being larded, drudge the other with fmall 
Crumbs of Bread, wrap it up in Paper before you lay 
it down, for fear it fhould burn -, uhen it is almoft roailxd, 
drudge, as before, the Part of it that is not larded, with 
Crumbs of Bread, adding to them fomc Salt, and Parfley. 
fhred fmall ; make a brilk Fire to brown it well, and ferve it 
with juice of Lemon and Orange. 

Lamb n,mih Rice. 

TAKE a Fore-quarter of Lamb, and road it about 
three Parts ; take a Pound of Rice, and put it into 
two Quarts of good Broth, with two Blades of Mace,^ fome 
Salt, and Nutmeg; Hove it an Hour, and take it off; put 
in the Yolks of iix E2;gs, and a Pound of Butter, then put 
Vol. L " I^ yo"^' 



ii8 The Lady's Companion, 

your Lamb in Joints in the Difli, and the Rice over it ; walk 
it over with Eggs, and fo bake it. 

A Leg of Lamb forced. 

YO U mufl take the Meat out of the Leg clofe to the 
Skin, and bone and mince it with Beef-fewet, Thyme, 
Parfiey, and Onions ; beat it in a IVl oriar with iaucury Spice, 
iind two Anchovies ; then wafh the Jnfide of the Skin with 
the Batter of Eggs, and fill it ; bafte, flour, and bake it : The 
Sauce maybe ieafon'd with Gravy, or put to it a Regalia 
of Cucumbers, Cauliflowers, or Fny.ch Beans. 

Another JVay to force a Leg of Lamb. 

TA KE a large Leg of Lamb, cut a long Slip on the 
Backfid^, take out all the Meat, but don't deface the 
other Side i then chop the Meat fmaJl with Marrow, Beef- 
fewet, O) fters. Anchovies miwafli'd, an Onion, fweet Herbs, 
fome Lemon-peel, feafon'd with Salt, Pepper, a little beaten 
Nutmeg, and Mace. Then pound all thele well in a Mor- 
tar, ftuff your Skin, few it up, wafli it over with the Yolks of 
Eggs bea.en, put it oi) the Spit, drudge it with Flour, and 
lay Pieces of Butter over it \ or you may bake it, if you 
plcaie : Stew fome Oyfrers in White Wine, with a Blade of 
Mace ; keep out the largeft to lay with Anchovy Sauce, 
Mufiirooms, and a good deal of Gravy, and fo ferve it, 
Lricaley the Loin to lay round it, cut into fmall Pieces very 
thin, feafon'd with Salt, Pepper, Nutmeg, Cloves, Mace, 
Gives, and favoury Herbs : Pry them in clarify 'd Butter, and 
when they are fry'd enough, pour out the Butter, clean the 
Pan, put in a Quarter of a Pint of White Wine, a Pint of 
flro^ng Gravy, fl:ew your Lamb in the Gravy ; then add an 
Anchovy, a few Oyfters, and Muihrooms, with the Liquor ; 
then roll up a Piece of Butter in Flour, and the Yolk of an 
Egg, and fqueeze in the Juice of a Lemon. Garni/h with 
Pickles and Lemon, and ferve it up. 

T^o fry a Keck or Loin of Lamb. 

CU T the Ribs afunder, beat them with your Knife, 
then fr>' them in a little Ale ; feafon them with a little 
Salt, and cover them clofe with a Plate -, take them out of 
the Pan with the Gravy in them, fet them in a Difli before 
the Fire ; clean your Frying-pan, put in Half a Pint of White 
Wine, fome Capers, and the Yolks of two Eggs beaten 
with a little Sak and Nutmeg ; add to this the Liquor they 

were 



^he Lad y's Co mi» anion. 2 f 5 

ivere fry'd in ; ftir it with a Spoon, all one Way, till it is 
thick, then put in the Lamb, and ftir all together : Garnifh 
with Parfley and Lemon, and ferve it up. 

To drijs a Lamb's Head in Pottage. 

TAKE the H.ad, Feet, and Liver of a Lamb, and 
young Bacon, fcald them ; then boil them all together 
in a large Pot, in fome Broth : When they are boil'd, and 
well fealbn'd, lay your Pottage a foaking with good Brotk 
and Gravy, and pat the Lamb's Head in the Middle : Bread 
the Brains, and fry them thoroughly, then put them into 
their Place again. Garnifh your Pottage with the Feet, Ba- 
con, and Liver. Thicken with a white Cullis made of 
Crumb-bread Toak'd in good Broth, a Score of fweet Al- 
monds, and the Yolks of three hard Eggs, pounded and 
ftrain'd, well foak'd, and fcafon'd with the Juice of Lemon; 
Then ferve it up. 

To foufe a Side of Lamb. 

BONE it, fcak it well from the Blood, wipe it dr}% and 
feafon it with Salt, Nutmeg, and Ginger beaten, fweet 
Herbs, and Lemon-peel minc'd, and Coriander-feed whole. 
Lay broad Slices of Lard over the Seafoning, then roll it in- 
to a Collar, and bind it up in a Linnen Cloth ; put it into a 
boiling Liquor, Ikim it well, put to it Salt, Nutmeg, and 
Ginger flic'd, Fennel, and Parfley-roots ; when it is almoll 
boiPd put in a Quart of White Wine ; when it is enough, 
take it off, put in Slices of Lemon, the Peel of two whole 
ones, and a Dozen Bay-leaves, and give it a Boil clofe go-'. 
ver'd. 

Another Way. 

TAKE the Bones out of a Side of Lamb, lay it to 
foak in Salt and V/ater, then wipe it dry ; feafon it 
with Salt, Pepper, Nutmeg, and favoury Herbs'ihred fmall, 
and Lemon-peel. Lay this Seafoning upon the Lamb, and 
broad Slices of Bacon upon the Seafoning; then roll it up 
into a Collar, tie it up tight in a Cloth, and boil it in Water 
and Salt ; when it is fkimm'd, put in Fennel, Parfley-roots, 
Ginger flic'd, and Nutmeg ; and when it is near boiPd 
enough, pour in a Quart of White Wine ; when that has 
boiPd put in half a Dozen Bay-leaves, the Peel of a Lemon, 
and Slices of Lemon, then put all in a Pot, and govc -^ii: 
dofe for Uf^. 

L 2 *!9 



aao fhe L A D y's Companion. 

^a Jlenv a Lamb' s Head. 

HAVING taken out the Brains, make a Pudding of" 
them ; boil them, and when they are cold, cut them 
into Bits ; then mince Lamb and Beef-fevvet together, add 
to it fome grated Bread, feafon with Salt, Pepper, and fweet 
Herbs minc'd fmall, add four or five raw Eggs, Fill the 
Lamb's Head with thefe ; then ftew it in a Stew-pan with 
ibme ftror.g Broth; make Balls of the Remainder oi your 
mined Meat. 

7o make Lamb like Venlfon. 

BONE your Lamb, then dip it in the Blood of a Pig, 
Sheep, or Calf ; then parboil it in Small Beer and Vine- 
gar, one Pan of the Firil, and three of the Latter, let it 
Kand in it all Night : Then put in fome Alkanet-root, or 
Turnfoil, and bake it with Pepper, Clov^es, Mace, Claret, 
and Butter, and fome Sprigs of Rofemary. 

To fry Lamb-Stones. 

PARBOIL them, mince them fm.all, fry them in fweet 
Butter, flrain them with fome Cream, Pepper, and 
beat,en Cinnamon, and when it is ilrain'd, put to it fome 
grated Cheefe ; then fry them, and ferve them up with Su- 
'szr and Rofewater. 

o 

The m-o Hind-quarters of Lam.b i.>oith fn,ceet Herbs. 

TAKE the Kind-quarters of Lamb, and raife the Skin 
without breaking it, fo a; it m.ay flick on the Side, 
wiihout taking it oft, beginning at the Knuckle ; take fome 
fcrap'd Bacon, Panley, and Chibbol, cut fmall, feafon'd with 
Sr:lt, Pepper, fweet Herbs, Spice, a Bit of Butter, and Ivlufh- 
rooms ; the Whole being well minc'd and mix'd together, 
put it between the Skin and the Flefh of your Lamb, tie up 
ihe Skin, to keep in the Stuffing, and fpit your Hind-quarters 
with Slices of Bacon and Paper round : Your Lamb being 
roaRcd, take off the Slices of Bacon and Paper, flrew fome 
Crumbs of Bread over it, and let it roaft a little more, to 
get a Colour ; difh it up with Gravy and Cullis, mix'd to- 
«-ether, with fome Shalots cut fmall, a little pounded Pepper, 
and Orange -juice. You may add a Couple of Rocamboles, 
if thev are likM, This is ferv'd up iiot in the firft Courfe. 

You 



Th L A D y's C O M P A N I O N.' 2.2 I 

You may likevvlfe lard thefe Hind- quarters, and do them 
in a large Stew-pan, being glaz'd. 

Lambs Plucks the Italian JVay. 

TAKE a Lamb's Pluck, ^iz. The Head, Trotters, 
Harllet, ^c. take out the Jaw-bones, cut the Tip oi? 
the Muzzle, and put the Head and the Harflet in freih W?.- 
ter J after thefe have been bianch'd, put in the Trotters, and 
the Head, Harflet, and Feet, of your Lamb, being par- 
boird, put them in a Kettle over Slices of Bacon.; the Wholj 
being feafon'd with Salt, Pepper, fweet Herbs, fweet Bafil; 
Thyme, and Slices of Onions, v/ith more Slices of Eicon 
over, pour fome Water in it, and let it boil ; when boiPd 
enough, put it in a Diih, ikin the Tongue, cut it in two, open 
the Head by the Skull, and take out the Bone, to take the 
Brains out the eailer ; put the Head, fo order'd with ihe 
Tongue, in the IVliddle of your Dilli ; cut the Lights .ni 
Liver in four or five Bits, placing them with th« Frotters 
round the Head, pour over the Whole an Italian Sauce, and 
ferve it up for a fmall Difh. 

For a Change, take your Liver and Lights, cut in ve.y 
thin Slices, and tofs'd up in a Frying-pan, feafon'd w'th Sale, 
Pepper, Chibbol, Parlley, and a Dull of Fiour; when d;ne, 
add a Dalh of Vinegar and Gravy, and ferve it up hor. 

7"? marinate a Leg of Limb. 

TAKE a I eg of Lamb cut in Pieces the Bignefs of 
Ha'f a Crown ; hack them with the Back of a Knife, 
then take a Shalot, three or four Anchovies, fo ite _k,v ... 
Mace, Nutmeg, all beaten ; put your Meat in a Dilh, and 
ftrew the Sealoning over it, and put it into a Stew-pan, v. ith 
as much White VVine as vvill cover it, and let it lie tvvo 
Hours ; th n put it all together in a Stew pan, and let it bs 
half e ough ; then take it out, and drain it through a Colan- 
der, faving the Liquor, and put to your Liquor a little Pep- 
per and Salt, and Haifa Pint of Gravy ; dip your Meat in 
Yolks of Eggs, and fry it brown in Butter ; thicken un your 
Sauce with Yolks of Eggs and Butter, and pour it in the 
Difn with your Meat ; lay Pieces of Sweetbreads and Force- 
meat Balls over your Meat, dipped in Eggs and fry'd. Gar- 
ni(h with Slices of Lemon. 



L j <r, 



222 tTifc^ Lady*s Companion." ' 

To drefi Lamb's Trotters. 

BOIL them well, then take out the Middle Bone, and 
Huff them with a good Faice, dip them in beaten Eggs,. 
drudge them well with crumbled Bread, and fry them brown.. 
Let your Garnifhing be fry'd Parfleyj fo ferve them. 

far Lamb-Pie, fei Chap, of V A st ky, ■ 

Loin cf Veal a la Braife, 

HAVING parboiPd your Veal, lard it with large Lar- 
doons, feafon'd with Pepper, Salt, and Nutmeg. Gar- 
nifh the Bottom of an oval Stew-pan with Slices of Bacon and 
Veal, feafon'd with Salt, Pepper, fweet Herbs, and Spices,, 
minc'd Parfley, Slices of Onions, Carrots, Parfnips, and Le- 
mon : Then lay in your Loin of Veal, the Kidney Side up- 
permoft, feafon it over as under, cover it in like Manner 
with Slices of Veal and Bacon ; fo having cover'd your 
Stew-pan very clofe, ftew it with Fire over and under it ;, 
when it is enough, drain it well, then lay it in a Dilh, pour 
upon it a Ragoo of Veal Sweetbreads, Cocks-combs, Mufh- 
jGoms, Morels and Truffles, or of Cucumbers, or of Let- 
luce i fo ferve it for the firft Courfe. 

To make Veal a la Mode, 

C» U T out the Bone, and take the hard Skin oiF a Filleti 
I of Veal, take Salt, Pepper, Mace, and Cloves in Pow- 
der, mix them with Thyme, Savoury, Lemon-peel, and Sha- 
lot fhred fmall : Then cut the Rind off from about Half ai 
Pound of Bacon, cut it into Pieces about the Thicknefs of 
your Finger, and the Breadth of two Fingers ; roll them up 
in the Seafoning, feewer it up clofe, and tie it in the fame 
Fafhion as before you cut it. Beat the Yolks of feme Eggs, 
and wafh it all over with them, put it into a Dilh and bake 
it, with Pieces of Butter all over it ; and when it is baked, 
take out the V^eal, and ferve it. * 

If you would pot it, take it from tRe Gravy, and pour 
over it as much clarify 'd Butter as will cover it, and tie a 
Paper over it, and when you eat it, cut it out into thin Slices, 
and eat it with Oil and Vinegar, or Juice of Lemons, or Lime- 
juice, bea.t up thick together. 



<rd 



7^^ Lady^s CoMPANfaw. 223 

To drefs Veal a la Burgo'ife. 

YO U may cut pretty thick Slices of Veal, and lard them 
with pretty large Lardoons of Bacon ; feafon them 
with Salt, Pepper, all Sorts of Spices, Parfley and Gives 
minc'd ; then garnifli the Bottom of a Ste\v-pan with Bards 
of Bacon ; lay in your Slices of Veal upon them ; fet your 
Stew-pan over a gentle Fire, that may keep them fweating 
for fome Time j then brifk up the Fire, and brown them on 
both Sides ; then add a little Flour, and brown that ; put in 
fome good Broth to moiften them, and let them llew gently ; 
when they are enough, take off the Fat, and put in the Yolk& 
of two or three Eggs, beaten up with Verjuice, to bind it. 
Pifli it, and ferve it up. 

% boil a Leg of Veal and Bacon, 

LARD your Leg of Veal all over with pretty Iarg& 
Lardoons of Bacon, and Lemon-peel, boil it with a 
Piece of middling Bacon j when the Bacon is enough cut it 
into Slices, feafon them with dry Sage and Pepper mix'd 
together. Difh the Veal, lay the Bacon round it, ftrew it 
*ver with Parfley, and ferve it with green Sauce in Saucers ; 
which* green Sauce you muft make as follows : 

Beat two or three Handfuls of Sorrel in a Mortar, with a 
Couple of Pippins quarter'd, and put to it Vinegar and 
Sugar. 

Or take a Couple of Handfuls of Sorrel, pound it in a 
Mortar, fqueeze out the Juice, and put it in a Pipkin, with 
a little drawn Butter and Sugar, and grated Nutmeg. Warm 
it, and pour it on your Veal and Bacon. 

To boil a Leg o/* Veal. 

STUFF it with Beef-fewet, and fweet Herbs chopped, 
feafon'dwith Salt and Nutmeg, and boil it in Water ana 
Salt ; then take fome of the Veal, and put to it fome Ca- 
pers, Currants, whole Mace, a Piece of interlarded Bacon, 
two or three whole Cloves, fome Artichoak Suckers boird ; 
and put in beaten Butter, boiPd Marrow, and Mace, and 
Pieces of Pears. Then take Sorrel, Sage, fweet Marjoram, 
Thyme, and Parfley ; mince them coarfly, and bruife them 
with the Back of a Ladle ; put thefe into your Broth to 
make it green, and give them a Walm or two, then your 
other Materials, fome Barberries, or Goofeberries, beaten 
Butter, and Lemon, 

L 4 ^ L^^^ 



2 24 ^^^ Lady's Compan ion. 

Loin of Veal fnarlnated, 

PARBOIL and lard it with large Lardoons, lay it ia 
a great deep Dilli, put to it a fiifficient Quantity of Vine- 
gar, together v/ith Salt, Pepper, fome Slices of Lemon and 
Onion, Eay-leaves, and whole Gives, and let it marinate in 
it three or four Hours, then put it on a Spit, lard it with 
Slices of Kani and Bards of Bacon, wrap it round with Pa- 
per, and lay it down to the Fire ; put into the Dripping-pan 
a Pound of Butter, together with the Pickle in which you 
marinated the Veal, andbaile it f/om Time to Time as it is 
roafting ; when it is enough, take off the Paper and Slices 
of Bacon, brown it well wich a brifl: Fire, fo ferve it, with 
ibmc EITence of Ham under it, and garnifli with fry'd Veal 
Cutlets. 

v^ Pillav/ c/Veal, 

A Neck or Bread of Veal being half roafted, cut it in 
fix Pieces, and feafon it with Pepper, Salt, and Nut- 
meg, butter the Iiifide of your Difh ; ftove a Pound of Rice 
tender, with fome good white Broth, Mace, and Salt ; llov« 
it very thick ; put in the Yolks of fix Eggs ; ftir it about 
well, and cool it, and put fome at the Bottom of your Dilli, 
and lay your Veal on a round Heap, and cover it all over 
with Rice ; wafli it over with the Yolks of Eggs, and bake, 
it one Hour and an half; then open the Top, and pour in 
fome good thick Gravy, and f^-ueeze in an Orange, and fa 
ferve away hot. Garnifh with flic'd Orange and Veal Cut- 
lets. 

Bomharded Veal. 

GE T a Fillet of Veal, cut out of it £ve lean Pieces as 
thick as your Hand, round them up a little, then lard 
them very thick on theraund Side , lard iive Sheeps Tongues, 
being boird, blanchM, and larded with Lemon-peel and 
Eeet-root, then make a well-feafon'd Force-meat, with 
Veal, lean Bacon, Beef-fewet, and an Anchovy, roll it up 
into a Ball, being well beat, then make another tender 
Force-meat with Veal, fat Bacon, Beef-fewct, Muftroom?, 
Spinach, Parfley, Thyme, fwee: Marjoram, Winter-favoury, 
and green Oniorvs ; feafon and beat it : Then put your 
ForcM ball into Part of this Force meat, put it into a 
Veal Caul, and bake it in a little Pot i Then roll up that 
which is left in another Veal Caul, wee with the Batter of 



EcrcrS, 



The Lady's Companion. 225 

Eggs, roll it up like a Bolognin Saufage, tie it at both Enc^ 
flightly round, and boil it ; your Forc'd ball being bakM,put 
it in the Middle of the Di(h ; your larded Veal being Hew'd 
in ftrong Broth, lay round it, and the Tongues fry'd brown, 
between each, then pour on them a Ragoo, lay about it the 
other Forc'd-meat, cut as thin as a Half Crown, anci 
fry'd in the Batter of Eggs ; then fqueeze on it an Orange, 
and garnifh it with flic'd Lemon. 

Veal a la Dauh. 

WHEN you have interlarded a good Fillet of Vea,l> 
as the Beef is cone, add to the ilewing of it a little 
White Wine ; then make for it a Ragoo, and garnifh it with 
flic'd Lemon. 

Olives of Veal. 

WASH ten or twelve Scotch Collops with Batter of 
Eggs, and feafon them ; then lay over them a little 
Forc'd-meat, roll them up, and roall them : Make for thein. 
aRagoo> and garnifh the Dilh with flic'd Orange. 

Olives of Veal another Way. 

WE take the Flefh of a Fillet of Veal, with fome Mar- 
row, two Anchovies, the Yolks of two hard Egg*^;, 
a few Muflirooms, and Oyflers, a little Thyme, Marjoram,. 
Parfley, Spinach, Lemon-peel, Salt, Pepper, Nutmeg, an.l 
Mace, finely beaten ; then take your Veal Caul, and lay fc- 
veral Layers of middling Bacon, and of the Ingredients above.^ 
one upon another, and roll ail up in the Caul to be roailed 
or bak'd ; and when it is enough cut it in thin Slices, and 
Lrve it in a Dilb of ilrong Gravy. 

At-other Ifaj, 

CUT the FI|fh of a Leg of Veal into thin Slices ; take 
Thyme, Marjoram, raiiley. Marrow, Cloves, Mace, 
Nut.reg, and Salt i chop all thefe together, and roll them 
up in fome of the long Pieces ; then .pit chem on a Bird- 
fpit, and tie them on ; and when they are roaiied, mak^ 
Sauce for them of Butter, and the Juice oi two or thrcs- 
Oranges. 



Jjt 



2^2 6 ne L A D y's C m p a N !■ O N. 

j^n admirable Way of drejftng CoUops. 

CUT a Leg of Veal into thin Slices, and hack them 
with the Back of a Knife ; then lard them thin with. 
Bacon ; then take a few fweet Herbs, cut fmall, fome Nut- 
meg grated, and ftrew over the Meat, flour them, and fait, 
them ; then take them and fry them brow.n in fweet Butter. 
For the Sauce, take Half a Pint of Gravy, a Quarter of a 
Pint of Claret, one Anchovy, one Shalot ; Ihred them and 
boil them together ; then put in a Quarter of a Pound of 
fweet Butter, the Yolks of two Eggs well beaten ; then pour 
out the Butter you fry'd them in, if any is left, and put in- 
your Sauce, and Ihake it together ; diih them up very hot,. 
'A'ith Lambs Stones, and Sweetbreads, fry'd brown. Garniih 
your Diih with Lemons, or Truffles, and Morels. 

Scotch CoUops another Way. 

PREPARE a Fillet of Veal, and cut it into thin Slices, 
then cut off the Skin and Fat, lard them with Bacon, and 
make three Pints of Gravy, as for Soop ; fiour your CoUops 
and fry them brown, and lay them by ; then take a Quarter 
of a Pound of Butter, and put it into a deep Stew-pan j let 
it mek, and ftrew in a Handful of Flour, fhaking and flir- 
ring it till it is brown ; then put in the Gravy, and one 
whole iinall Onion, a Bunch of Herbs, which mull be foon 
taken out ; let it boil a little, and put in the Collops to Hew 
Haifa Quarter of an Hour : Put in Balls of Forc'd-meat, 
ready fry'd ; beat the Yolks of two Eggs, break them into 
iix Ounces of Butter, a little Vinegar ; take up a little Li- 
quor out of the Stew-pan and mix with it, then pour it all in> 
and (hake them well together ; take out the Collops, lay 
them on the Difh, and let the Sauce thicken a little more, 
and pour it over the Meat : You may add fry'd Bacon, Mulh?- 
jooms, and Palates ; put in the Juice of a Lemon. 

V/hite Scotch Collops. 

AFTER you have cut your Veal in thin Slices, lard 
it with Bacon, and feafon it with Cloves, Mace, fweet 
Herbs, and grated Bread ; flew the Knuckle with as little 
Broth as you can, a Bunch of fweet Herbs, a few Cloves, 
and Mace ; then take a Pint of it, and put in two Anchovies^ 
a Quarter of a Pint of White Wine, and fome Mulhrooms ; 
thicken it up with the Yolks of thxee Eggs, asd a Piece of 
« utter*. 



^hs Lady's Companion.' 22.7 

Jnother Wayl 

LARD the flefhy Part of a Leg of V^eal with Bacon, as 
much as you think fit, flic'd very thin ; then take Half 
a Pint of Ale, and put the Veal in it, till the Blood be out ;. 
then pour out the A\q into a Porringer, and take a little 
Thyme, Savoury, and fweet Marjoram, chopp'd fmall, ilrew 
it over the Veal, and fry it in Butter, and flour it a little^ 
ti.ll enough ; then put it into a Difh ; put the Butter away, 
and fry thin Bits of Bacon and lay in the Midu's of the Dilh. 
For the Sauce, put into the Ale four Anchovies, and a little 
White Wine, the Yolks of two Eggs, a little Nutmeg or 
Pepper : Melt the Anchovies before you put in the Eggs, 
and when it begins to thicken, put in a Piece of Butter, and 
fhake it about till it is melted ; then pour it over your Meat. 
You may do it in Gravy inllead of Ale ; melt your Anckovies 
in White V/ine. 

^0 make Balls of Veal. 

MINCE the Lean of a Leg of Veal, and cut cut 
the Sinews ; then mince with it fome Fat of Beef- 
fewet, if the Leg be of a Cow Calf, the Udder will be good 
inftead of Sewet ; when it is very well teraper'd together 
with the Chopping- knife, have fome Cloves, Mace, and 
Pepper beaten, and with Salt feafon your Meat, putting in 
fome Vinegar ; then make up the Meat into little Balls, and 
fet them to boil in good ilrong Mutton-Broth ; as foon as 
they are boil'd enough, take the Yolks of iive or fix Eggs 
well beaten, with as much Vinegar as you pleafe, and fome 
of the Broth mingled together ; Ilir it into all your Balls 
and Broth, give it a Walm on the Fire ; then dilTt up the 
Balls upon Sippets, and pour the Sauce on it. 

To make Savoury Balls. 

WE take the Flefti of Fowl, Beef-lewet, and 'Marrow, 
of each the like Quantity; feven Oyfters, a little . 
lean Bacon, with fweet Herbs, Pepper, Salt, Nutmeg, audi 
Mace 3 pound them, and itialce it up into Balls. 

To make Force-meat Ball. 

GET a Pound of Veal, and the fame Weightof Beef-; 
fewet, and a Bit of Bacon, fhred all together ; beat it 
in a Mortar very fine j then feafon it v/ith fweet Herbs, Pep- 
per, Salt, Cloves, Mag-e, and Nutmegs ; and when you rolb 

it* 



22 8 The La d y's C o .\r ? a n i o n*. 

it up to fry, add the Yolks of two or three Eggs to bind it : 
You may add Oy flers, or Marrow, at an Entertaimr.ent. 

BreaH of Veal in Galantine, 

BO N E a Breall: of Veal, flretch it, and beat it as flat as 
you can ; feafon it with Parfley, Thyii.e, Mcrjoram^ 
Wmter-favoury, Marygolds, all well minc'd, Pepper, Salt, 
' and Nutmeg ; roll it up well, and tie it very clofe ; then tie 
it up in a Cloth, and boil it in good fealon'd Broth, Wine, and 
" a little Thyme. V/hen it is boird, let it cool in the fame 
Liquor ; fend it up either Whole or in Slices, upon a Nap- 
kin. Garniih it as you like. 

Jigget of Veal a la Daub. 

AFTER having taken off the Skin, blanch it, lard i^ 
with fmall Lardoons. ard lay it to fcak in Verjuice? 
White V/ire, Salt, a Faggot of fweet Herbs, Pepper, Bay- 
leaves, and Cloues : Then roaft it, bafting it with the fame 
Wine, mix'd with Verjuice and a little Broth : When it is 
rcafled, if you intend to eat it hot, make your Sauce of the 
Dripping, a little fry'd Flour, Capers, Slices of Lemon, Juice 
of IViui]iroomb% and Anchovies. Let your jigget f.mmer irt 
it for fome Time, and ferve it av/ay. 

A Lq-t of iVlutton may be done the fame Way. 

^ Loaf //Veal. 

tT A V I N G beat fome thin Slices of Veal flat with your 
\ Cleaver, take Meat enough to make your Loaf with-; 
then take another Lump of your Slices of Veal, and cut into 
Bits, together v/ith fome Beef-fewet, fome Bacon, and a 
Calf's Udder blanch'd ; put all together In a Stew-pan over 
the Fire, feafon it with Pepper, Salt, iweet Herbs, fine Spice, 
Chibbcls, Parfley, Garlick, Muflirooms, and Truffles, if you 
have any ; tofs it up, and flir it together, and put into it 
Oumbs of Bread boil'd in Milk, and four .or five Yolks of 
Eggs : All this being well n.inc'd, garnifh the whole Bot- 
tom of a Stew-pan with fome thin broad Slices of Bacor?, 
and ever them fome Slice? of Veal, and then your Fcrc'd- 
ineat all round it, the Thicknefs of two Fingers : At laft, 
2 ar in a fmall Ragoo made of Griftles of \' eal, and feme 
green Pca^e ; let all be we;] dene, and of a good Tafle, and 
put this Ragoo into your Loaf of Veal, putting, at the 
feme Time, more of your Forc'd-meat, and fmall Slices 
ef Veal over the fame j brijng your SHcea of Bacon to lay 

about 



ne L A D y's C o m p a n I j^. 229 

about It, and let them ftew : Jt being done, take oi't the faid 
Slices of Bacon, pour out the Fat, turn it uplide down in the 
Dilh, ikim it well, and put your Ragoo of green Peafe over 
it, or, infiead of Peaie, a Cullis. 

At snother Time you may ferve up your Loaf with a Ra- 
goo of Sweetbreads of Veal, Cocks-combs, Muihrooms, 
TruHies, or an Effence cf Ham. 

At another Time you may make Ufe of a Calf's Caul, 
inftead of Slice :^ of Veal, and ferve it up. 

At another Tiire, inifead of taking Griilles of Veal to 
put into your Loaves, take Fi lets of all Sorts of Fowls, and 
yut over your Loaf an EiTence, or a Ragoo oi hpanifh Car- 
dcons, or fuch other Sauce, or Ragoo, as you think fit. 

At another Time, inftead of fuch Fillets, ycu may make 
Ufe cf a Ragoo of Sv/te threads. 

To m^^h Stove Veal. 

YO U mull: talkie the Fillet of a Cow Calf, cut away an 
Inch of the middle Bone, on each Side, cut off the 
Udder, and cui; it in long Slices, and roll it in a Sealoning 
of Salt, Pepper, Nutmeg, and fweet Herbs fhred fmnll ; 
make Holes in the Fillet of Veal, and in them Hick ihefe 
Pieces of feafon'd Udder as thick as you can j then put into 
a. Stew pan your Fillet, fet it over a Stove with a gentle 
Fire, turning it, and iliaking it as you £nd Occaijon ; when 
it is pretty near enorgh, fkim oft the Fat, and put in an 
Onion ftuck with Cloves, pare and cut a Lemon in Halves, 
fqueeze it, and put it in, fhake it now and then ; it will take 
five Hours ilewing if your Fire be fJack : About an Hour 
before it is enough, put in a Pint of flrong Broth ; whei' it 
is quite enough, put in a Pint of MuHirooms, and a Pint of 
Oyllers, with a little of the Broth, and two Spoonfuls < f Ca- 
pers. Then ■- im off the Fat again \ before, you ufe the Li- 
quor, thicken it with F"lour, and pour it on the Difh of 
Meat, and i^xN^ it up. 

To Jie^v Veal. 

AFTER having cut your Veal into fmall Pieces, fea- 
fon them with Salt, whole Pepper, an Onion, Lemon- 
peel, and Mace, and two or three Shalcts j Hew ail in V/a- 
ter, or Port Wine, with a lircle- Butter ; when your Meat is 
fiew'd enough, put in fome Yolks of Eggs beaten, give tlisni 
a Walm or two, diih them, ajid ferve them up. 



2^o ST/^^ Lad y's CoMP ANioK. 

Veal Blanquets. 

RO A S T a Piece of Veal, cut ofF the Skin, and ner- 
vous Parts, into little thin Slices ; put fome Butter in a 
Stew-pan over the Fire, with fome chopped Onion ; fry it a 
little, then add a. little Duft of Flour to it, and wet it with 
good clear Broth ; put to it a Faggot of fweet Herbs, and 
young Onions, feafon it with Spice ; make it of a good 
Talle, then put in your Veal, bind it with Eggs and Cream 
like a Fricafey, feme Shalot, Rocambole, and Pariley, 
chopped fmall, and fome grated Nutmeg, and grated Lemon- 
peel, with fome Lemon-juice, m.ake it favoury ; and lallly, 
put in a Spoonful of Oil ; ferve it hot. 

"To fie-cv a Knuckle of Venl. 

BE fare let the Pot or Sauce-pan be very clean, lay at the 
Bottom four clean wooden Skewers, vvafh and clean the 
Knuckle very well, then lay it in the Pot, with two or three 
Blades of Mace, a little v/hole Pepper, a little Piece of 
Thyme, a fmall Onion, a Crull of Bread, and two Quarts of 
Water ; cover it down clofe, make it boil, then only let it 
fimmer for two Hours, and when it is enough take it up," lay 
it in a Diih, and ilrain the Broth over it. 

Another Way. 

CLEAN it as before direded, and boil it till there is jull 
enough for Sauce, add one Spoonful of Catchup, one 
of Red Wine, and one of Walnut Pickle, fome Truffles and 
Morels, or fome dry'd Mufhrooms cut fmall ; boil it all to- 
gether, take up the Knuckle, lay it in a Diih, pour the Sauce 
over it, and fend it to Table. 

To drefs a Fillet of Veal ^Mh Collops. 

TA KE a fmall Fillet of Veal, cut what Collops yoa 
want, then take the Udder and fill it with Force-meat, 
roll it round, tie it with a Packthread a-crpfs, and roaft it, lay 
your Collops in the Difh, and lay your U^der in the Middle. . 
Gainiih your Difh with Lemon. 

ro fry Veal. 

YOUR Veal, cither raw or roafted, muft be cut.into 
Slices, flour them, fait them, beat up an Egg, ilrip 
fome Thyme and put to it, feafon on both Sides ; make Sewet 
boiling hot in a Frying-pan, put in your Slices of Veal, 

turn 



^he L A D Y ^s C M p A N r o m 2 ^i 

tarn it but once in the Frying-pan ; when it is enough, take 
it up, clear the Fat out of the Pan, and fry thin Slices of 
Bacon to garnilh the Difh, and ferve them up with Gravy 
Sauce or Butter. 

To farce and roojl a Fillet of VeaL 

MINCE Beef-fewet very fmall, an Anchovy, with 
Iweet Marjoram, Winter-favoury, and Thyme; fea- 
fon with Salt, Nutmeg, and Mace beaten ; add grated Bread, 
mix all thefe together with the Yolk of an Egg ; make little 
Holes in your Veal, and fluff it very thick with thefe Ingre- 
dients, or place it behind the Udder, then fpit it and roaft 
it well : Put a Piece of Paper over the Udder to keep it 
from burning. Make your Sauce of Butter, and the Juice 
of Lernon ; work the Sauce up very thick, difh your Veal, 
pour your Sauce over it, and garnifh with Slices of Lemon, 

7o roaft a Shoulder or Fillet of Veal 'nxith farcing Herbs. 

WA : H your Veal, parboil it a little ; then mince fome 
Winter-favoury, Thyme, and Parfley very fmall ; 
and alfo mince fome Sewet, and the Yolks of four hard Eggs, 
and mix with the reil ; leafon with Salt, Pepper, and Nut- 
meg ; work all thefe up with the Yolk of a raw Egg or two, 
and fluff your Veal with them \ hut fave fome of it ; fpit 
your Veal, roaft it, put the Stuffing you fav'd in the Drip- 
ping-pan, or in a Difh under your Meat, and when thoMeat 
is near roalled enough, put to them a Quarter of a Pint of 
White Wine Vinegar, and a little Sugar ; when your Meat 
is enough, feive it up v/ith the Sauce.. 

To boil a Slioulder 0/ Veal. 

HALF boil it in Water and Salt, then ilice off the moil 
Part of it, and fave ihe Gravy ; then take the flic'd 
Meat, and put it in aPo^, with fome of the Broth that boil'd 
it, a little grated Bread, Oyller-liquor, Vinegar, Bacon flic'd 
thin, a Pound of Saufages out of their Skins, made into Balls, 
and roird in the Yolks of Eggs, large Mace and Nutnieg ; 
let all ll:ew about an Hour, then put in a Pint of Oyllers, 
fome fweet Herbs and a little Salt; then take the Bone of 
Veal, and broil it, and difh it ; add to your Liquor a Piece 
of Butter, and fome minc'd Lemon, with the Rind of a Sha- 
lot or two, flic'd, and pour it over ; they lay on it fome 
fry'd Oyflers. Garnifh your Difh with Barberries and flic'd 
Lemon, and foye it up. 

A Shoulder 



232 The Lady's Companioi^. 

A Shoulder of Veal a la Picmontoife. 

HAVING a Shoulder of Veal, take ofF the Skin, that 
it may hang at one End, cut Lardoons of Bacon and 
Hair-, feafon'd with Pepper, Salt, fine Spice, fine Herbs, and 
lard the Shoulder of Veal with it; cover it again with the 
Skin, and braife it ^ then take Sorrel and Lettuce, pick'd and 
waih'd clean, chop it v<,ry well, put it over the Fire in a Stew- 
pan, with a 1 tde Burter, chopp'd Parfiey, Onions, and Mulh- 
rooms. The Kerbs being ftew'd tender, put to it fome good 
Culiis, Bits of Ham, and Sweetbreads, cut in Dice. V/hen 
the Shoulder of Veal is ready, take it out and drain it, put 
it in the Di(h you intend it for ; take off the Skin, put fome 
of the fwcet Herbs under and over, put the Skin over it 
again, wet it with melted Butter, and ftrew over it fome 
Varviijtin j give it a Colcur in the Oven, and ferve it hot. 

// Neck cf Veal in forced meat Cutlets* 

BOIL the Neck of Veal in vour Soop ; when it is boil'd 
take it out, and cut all tlfe Flcfh from off the Bones, 
and m.ake it into a good Forc'd-meat, then form the Forc'd*- 
meat like Cutlets, with the Ribs fticking out, put them into 
a Baking-pan, do ihem over with Yolks of Eggs and Crumbs 
of Bread ; put them in the Oven, give them a good Colcur, 
then put them in a Diih with Gravy under themi'ferve them 
hot. 

Tor ragming a Breafl i?/" Veal, fee the Chapter o/^zgoos. 

To hajh a Calf's Head. 

OUR CaiPs Head being flit and clean'd, and half 
boird, and cold, cut one Side into thin Slices, fry it 
in a Pan of Butter; then having a Sauce-pan on the Stove, 
with a Pint of Gravy, a Pint of llrong Broth, a Quarter of a. 
Pint of Claret, and as much ¥/hite Wine, a fevv' (avoury 
Balls, and a Pint of Oyfters, with Lambs-tlones and Sweet- 
breads, boiPd and blanched, and flicM, with Mufl.rooms and 
Trui'es, two or three Ancliovies, with two Shaiots, and a. 
Faggot of fweet Herbs, tols'd up andHew'd together ; fea- 
fon It with Nutmeg, Mace, Pepper, and Salt ; then fcoteli 
the other Side a-croi's and a-crots ; flour, baite, and broil it : 
The Halh h^'^ thicken'd with brown BuUer, put it in tlie 

Pifh^ 



The Lady^s Companion?. 233 

Dlih, lay about it fry'd Balls, and the Tongue flic'd and 
larded with iacon and Lemon-peel ; then fry, in the Batter 
of Eggs, fiic'd Sweetbreads, car/d Sippets, and Oyfters ; 
lay in the Head, and place thefe about the Dilh, and gar- 
nifh it with flic'd Orange. 

Another Way. 

BOIL your Calf's Head till the Meat is near enough 
for eating, take it up, and cut it into thin Slices ; then 
put to it Half a Pint of White V/ine, and three Quarters of 
a Pint of Gravy ; put to this Liquor n-zo Anchovies, Haifa 
Nutmeg, a little Mace, and a fmall Onion iluck with Cloves; 
boil this up in the Liquor a Q^nart^r of an Hour, then flrain 
it, and let it boil gently again ; then put in ycur Meat, v.jth 
a little Salt, and {oine Lemon peel fnred fine, and let it flew 
a little ; mix the Brains with the Yolks of Eggs, and fry 
them for Garniih; when your Head is ready, fhake in a Bit 
of Butter, and ferve it up. 

An admirable Way to roaji a Calf's Head. 

GE T a Calf's Head with the Skin on, and fcald it, anc 
boil it an Hour and an Half; when cold, lard it with 
Lenion-peel, and then fpit it j Wi en it is enough, make a 
good favoury Sauce, as ycu do for a halh'd Head, and put 
into it Fcrc d m.eat Balls, try'd Sweetbreads, Eggs, and Cla- 
ret, a little Bacon, fome Truft.es and Morels, Mufhrooms 
and Oyfters, and a little Lemon-juice, and mix it all well 
together, with the Sauce, and pour over the Head. It may 
be done as well with the Skin off, as it comes from the 
Butcher's. 

Calf's Head r^u^pnfe. 

YO U muH bone it, and not fplit it, cleanfe it well, and 
fill up the vacant Place with Meat, and make it in 
the fam : Form as before : You may put in the Middle a Ra- 
goo, and cover it with Force-meat; then wafh it with Egg> 
and crumb it, and bake it ; io ferve it. 

To drefs a Calf's Head. 

BOIL the Head till the Tongue' will peel ; then cut 
Half the Head into fmall Pieces, about the Eignefs of 
Oyfters ; lay the Brains by them.felves ; then ftew it in 
flrong Gravy, with a large Ladleful of -Claret, and a Hand- 
ful of fvveet Herbs, a little Lemon -peel, a Piece of Onion 

and 



234 ^^^ Lady^s CoMPANiorf. 

and Nutmeg flic'd ; let all thefe flew till they are tender ;. 
then take the other Half of the Head, fcratch it a-crofs, 
ftrew over it grated Bread, fweet Herbs, with a little Le- 
mon-peel ; lard it with Bacon, and wafh it over with the 
Yolks of Eggs, and ftrevv over it a little grated Bread ; boil 
it well Qver Charcoal, or Wood Coal ; and when it's enough, 
place it in the Middle of your Diih ; then cut the flew'd 
Meat, and put in a Pint of Gravy into your Stew-pan, with 
three Anchovies, a few Capers, a good many Mulhrooms^ 
and a good Quantity of fweet Butter, with a Quart of large 
Oyflers ; flew them in their own Liquor, with a Blade of 
Mace, a little White Wine ; keep the largeft out to fry, and' 
fhred a few of the fmallell ; tlien beat the Yolks of Eggs- 
and Flour, and dip them in ; fry them in Hog's Lard ^ 
make little Cakes of the Brains, and cut the Tongue out 
into round Pieces, and dip them in, and fry them ; then 
pour the flew'd Meat into the Difli round the other Half of 
the Head, and lay tlie fry'd Oyflers, Brains, and Tongue, 
with little Bits of crifp'd Bacon, Force meat Balls, or Sau- 
fages, on th^ Top, and all about the Meat j garniih with: 
Horfe-radiih and Barberries 5 fcrve it up hot.. 

To roafi a Calf's Head- nvith Oyflers. 

CUT it in two as for boiling ; take out the Brains and 
the Tongue, pfl.rboil them, blanch the Tongue, and 
mince them with a little Sags, Beef- fewet, or Marrow, and a 
few Oyflers ; add to thefe the Yolks of four or five Eggs 
beaten, Salt, Pepper, Ginger, Nutmeg, and grated Bread : 
Then parboil the Head, and having dry'd it with a. Cloth,, 
fill the Skull and the Mouth with the above Ingredients ; 
then fluff it with Oyflers, and faflen it to the Spit : As it 
roafls preferve the Gravy, to which put fome White Wine, a 
little Nutmeg, a few Oyflers, and fweet H.rbs minc'd ; fet 
thefe over a Chafing difli of Coab, put in fome Butter, the 
Juice of a Lemon, and a little Salt ; beat it up thick, and 
when the Head is difh'd, pour in it this Sauce, and ferve it. 

To hoil a CalPs Head. 

TAKE out the Bones, then have in readinefs Palates 
boil'd tender, Yolks of hard Eggs, Oyflers fcalded, 
and Force-meat ; fluff all this into vour Head ; and tie it up 
clofe in a Cloth ; boil it three Flours, make a flrong Gravy 
for. Sauce, and garnifh with fry'd Bacon. 

T^ 



ne Lady^s Companion. 235 

To foufe a Calf's Head. 

FIRST fcald your Calf's Head, take out the Bones, 
then lay it in Water to foak feven or eight Hours, 
changing the Water hvlce in that Time, dry it with a Cloth, 
and feafon it with Salt, and bruifed Garlick ; then roll it up 
into a Collar, and bind it very clofe, and boil it up in 
White Wine, Water, and Salt ; when it is boil'd, put your 
Liquor in a Pan, put in your Head, keep it for Ufe i ferve 
k up either in the Collar, or in Slices, with Oil, Vinegar, 
and Pepper.. 

To farce Calves Tongues. 

CU T a Hole in the Tongues with a fmall Knife, at the 
Throat-end j then thruil your Finger in the whole 
Length, making, as it were, a Gut, don't break the Skin,. 
i^^r^ make a Farce of Veal, fome boil'd Ham, MuDirooms, 
Parfxey, Cives, Pepper, Salt, Nutmeg, a little blanch'd Bacon^ 
a^ Bit of Beef-fewet, a little Bread foak'd in Cream, the Yolks 
of three or four Eggs ; hafh all thefe Ingredients together, 
and pound tKem in a Mortar j then farce the Tongues, and 
fet them to flew ; when they are about half ftew'd, put in 9 
Ladleful of Gravy j ferve them with a Ragoo of Veal Sweet* 
breads . 

% boil Calves Tongues. 

BOIL them tender and peel them ; lard them with Le- 
mon-peel and fat Bacon ; then lay them down to the 
Fire, and half roaft them ; then put them into a Sauce-pan, 
with Red Wine, whole Spice, flic'd Lemon, and a little 
Salt ; boil all together, and ferve up upon Toafts. Thus 
fou may do Sheeps Tongues. 

To roafi Calves Tongues. 

FIRST flew them a la Braife ; then take them up and 
peel them, then lard them with fmall Slips of Bacon, 
put them on Skewers, tie them on the Spit, and roaft them 
till they are of a line brown Colour, ferve them with EiTence 1 
of Ham, of Bacon, or with a Poivrade. | 

% drefs Calves Feet,. 

BOIL them tender, flit them in the Middle, put them 
into a Stew-pan, with Butter, Parlley, Onions chopp'd. 
fmall, a little Thyme, Mace, Pepper, Vinegar, and Salt ; le:: 

all: 



2^6 The Lady's Companion. 

all thefc ftew together till they are enough ; then lay your 
Feet in a Difli, and pour the Sauce over them ; ftew forne 
ravy Parfley and hard Eggs chopp'd together over them, with 
Slices of Lemon and Barberries. 

Another Way. 

BOIL four Calves Feet, a Eit of Beef, a Bit of Veat, 
and the Bottom of a white Loaf; put in vSalt, three or 
four Blades of Mace, and a Natmeg flic'd ; after you- have 
ftrain'd the Broth from the Bo-es and Skir.s, have fomeRice- 
ready boil'd to ftir in it ; put a boii'd Chicken in the Mid- 
dle, and Sippets in the Difh, 

To rocfl Calves Feet. 

BOIL your Calves Feet very ter.der,_blanch them, itt 
them hy till they are cold, then lard them thick with 
fmall Lardocns of Bacon, then put them on a fmall Spit, 
and roaft them ; then mr.ke a Sauce of Butter, Vinegar, and 
fome Cinnamon beaten up thick, pour it on your Feet, and 
fcrve them up. 

To ft-') Veal Sweetbreads. 

HAVING larded them with fmall Lardoons, run a 
'^kewer thro' them, faften them to th? Spit, and roaft 
them f-ill they are very brown ; then lay them in a Di(h, in 
which you have put fome EiTence of Ham, or good Gravy ; 
fe> ferve them. 

To f>y Veal S wee breads. 

AFT EB. having blanch'd and cut each Swe-tbread in- 
three or four Pieces, lay th m in a Dilh with an 
Onion cut in Slices, fome whole Ci\^es, and a Bay-leai", 
Salt, Pepper, two or three Cloves, and Juice of Lemon ; let 
then, marinate in this for two Flours ; mean while, make a 
Batter as follows : Put into a Pan one Handful of Flour, and 
a little Salt, beat it into Batter with fair V/ater, and on« 
Egg, melt as big as a Walnut of Butter, and add to it : 
Take care it be not too thick, nor too thin : Take the 
Sweetbreads out or" the Marmade, and having dry'd them 
weU between two Napkins, put them into the Batter ; heat 
fome Hog's Lard in a Frying-pan, and put in your Sweet- 
breads, one by one, draining them well from the Batter ; 
when they are fry'd brown, take them up and drain them; 
then (vy foipe Parfley i lay a Napkin in a Difli, place your 
^ Sweet- 



The La D y's Co M p A N ION. 2^7 

Sweetbreads upon it, and the fry'd Parlley in the Middle ; 
fo lerve them in t'iates, or little Difhes. 

Sn.veetbieaJi of Veal a la Dauphine. 

TAKE the largell Sweetbreads you can get, order 
them as for a Ragoo, open them and flit 'em round, 
then £11 them with StuiRng made of Chickens : Put Slices of 
Veal and Bacon in a Stew-pan, feaibn them with Salt, Pep- 
per, fweet Herbs, fine Spices, whole L'hibbols, and an Onion 
cut in Slicc3. Then put in the Sweetbreads, feafon and co- 
ver them with Slices of Veal and Bacon -, cover the Stew- 
pan, ilew them v/ith Fire under and over : The Sweetbreads 
being done, take them out, take out the Slices of Bacon, put 
]^ a Ladleful of good Broth, let it ftew, llrain the Broth thro' 
a Silk Strainer, take off the Fat, then put the Broth in a 
cle:;n Stew-pan till it turns to a Jelly, put in the Sweetbreads 
to glaze ; being glaz'd, put an Ellence in your Diili, with 
your Sweetbreads laid upon it. 

Tc farce Veal Snx-ecibreads a la Dauphine. 

SCALD the Sweetbreads a little, and lard them with 
boiPd Gammon ; having prepared a very delicious Farce, 
cut a Hole in the Sweetbreads, but not quite through, and 
fluff them with your Farce ; then bake 'em in a Pan between 
two Fires ; in the mean Time, prepare for them a Ragoo of 
Mufhrooms, Truffles, and Artichoak Bottoms, Cocks-combs, 
ftuft'd with fome of the fame Farce, and a little Chicken 
Cullis ; then clear your Sweetbreads from the Fat, and pat 
them into the Ragoo, let them ftew a liccie, difh them, 
fqueeze in tl.e Juice of an Orange, and ferve them up to 
Table hot. 

Other Ways of drejjing Veal SiveelbrgaJs. 

YO U m.ay either lard them with thin Slips of Bacon, and 
roaft them, and order them with a goad Ragoo or 
Sauce pour'd upon them, or you may marinate them ; cut 
them into Slices, flour them fry them, and ferve them up 
with fry'd Parfley and Lemon juice. 

Fricandoes cf Veal. 

HAVING a Leg of Veal, cut off fome Slices, beat 
them well with a Knife, lard them, lay them on a 
Table, the larded Sid€ downwards, cover them the Thick- 
nefs of a Crown Piece, with a Farce made of Veal, Beef- 
Mar row. 



238 



ne La d y's Companion. 



Marrow, a little Bacon, and Tome Eggs, feafon'd with Salt, 
Pepper, :.nd favour/ Herbs. Having thus farc'd them, dip 
your Hand in beaten Eggs, and imooth the Edges of them^ 
Lay them in a Stew-pan with a little Bacon under them, co- 
ver the Pan, and fet it over the Stove ; put likevvife a little 
Fire upon it. You mull keep them thus till they are brown 
on both Sides, then take them up, let the Fat drain from 
them, and put them again into a Stew-pan, with fome Gra- 
vy ; let them fimmer a-while in it ; take oft* all the Fat, put 
in a Drop of Verjuice ; then lay them in a Difh ; pour on 
them a Ragoo of Mufhrooms, Truffles, and Sweetbreads, 
and ferve them hot. 

When Fricando'wS are ufed for Garnifhing, they are drefs'd 
the fame Way, but not larded. 

To drefs a Calf's Liver, a la B>aife. 

LARD the Liver with Lardoons high feafop/d : Lay 
thin Slices of Bacon over the Bottom of a Stew-pan, 
and Slices of Beef; feafon them with Salt, Pepper, and Spice : 
Add an Onion llic'd, a whole Leek, Parfnips, Carrots, fome 
{hred Parlley, and fwcet Herbs. Put in your Liver, and lay 
the fame Seafoning and Roots over it, that you did under it, 
alfo Slices of Beef and Bacon ; cover the Pan, and put Fire 
both ov^er and under it. Then make a Ragoo of Muihrooms, 
Artichoak-b0ttoms,vand Afparagus-tops, Cocks-combs, and 
Veal-fweetbreads ; tofs thefe up in a Sauce-pan with melted 
Bacon ; take off the Fat, and thicken it with a Cullis of 
Veal and Ham. When the Liver has ilew'd enough, difh it, 
,pour the Ragoo upo-n it, and ferve it hot for a firil Courfe. 

You may alfo ferve it with Slices of Ham, prepared as fol- 
lows : Lay Slices of Ham in the Bottom of a Stew-pan, cover 
it, and fet it over a Stove to fweat ; when it begins to ftick 
to the Pan, put in fome Gravy, and when it has fimmerd ^ 
little, thicken it with a Cullis of Partridges, or fome other 
Cullis. Lay your Liver into your Sai/igaraz, pour it on your 
Liver, and ferve it hot. 

Or you may ferve yo-jr Liver with a Ragoo of Succory, 
or of Cucumbers, or with a hafh'd Sauce. 

To roaft a Calf's Liver. 

LARD your Liver well with large Slices of Bacon, 
fallen it on the Spit, road it at a gentle Fire, and ferve 
it up with good Veal Gravy, or a Pt^ivra^k. 

Calves 



The L A D y's Companion. ^^^ 

Calves Chitterlings tr Andouilles. 

TAKE fome of the biggell Calf's Guts, cleanfe them, 
cut them in Pieces proportionable to the Length of the 
Puddings you defign to make, and tie on-e End of thele Pieces, 
then take fome Bacon, with a Calf's Udder, and Chaldron 
blanch'd, and cut in Dice or Slices^ then put them in a 
Stew-pan, and feafon with fine Spice pounded, a Bay-leaf, 
fome Salt, Pepp.r, Shalot, cut fmall, and about half 'a Pint 
of Cream ; tofs it up, then take off the Pan, and thicken 
jour Mixture with four or five Yolks of Eggs, and fome 
Crumbs of Bread ; then fill up your Chitterimgs with the 
Stuffing, keep it warm, -then tie che other Ends with Pack- 
thread, blanch and boil them like Hog's Chitterlings, let 
them grow -jold in their own Liquor. Before you ferve 'em 
up, boil them over a moderate Fire, and fei've them up pretty- 
hot. This Sort q{ Andouilles, or Puddings, muil be made in 
Summ.er, when Hogs are feldom kill'd. 

Calves Chitterlings another Way, 

CU T a Calf's Nut in Slices of its I ength, and the 
Thicknefs of a Finger, together with ibme Ham, Ba- 
con, and the White of Chickens cut after the fame Manner ; 
put the Whole into a Stew-pan, feafon it with Salt, Pepper, 
Tweet Herbs, and Spice; take Guts .cleans'd, cut and divid-e 
them in Parcels, fill them with your Slices ; then lay in the 
Bottom of a Kettle fome Slices of Bacon and Veal, place 
jthem over your little Chitterlings, feafon them with Iweet 
Safil, Bay-leaves, Salt, Pepper, Slices of Onion, and Cloves 
of Garlick, and make another Laying with Slices of Bacon 
and Veal over them, pour in it a Pint of White Wine, and 
let it ftew with Fire under and over ; being done, broil your 
Puddings on a Sheet of Paper, and ferve them up hot. 

To do a Leg of Pork Ham Fi^Jhion. 

TA K E a Leg of Pork, and let it be cut like a Ham; 
then take a Quart of ordinary Salt, and a Quart of 
Bay -fait, and heat it very hot, then mix it with a Pound of 
coarfe Sugar, and an Ounce of Salt-petre beaten fine, and rub 
the Ham well with it, and cover it all over with what is left, 
for it mud all go o i, fo let it lie three Days ; then turn it 
every Day for a Fort (light; then take it out, and fm.oak it 
as you do Bacon or 1 ongues : The Salt mull4e put on as 
hot as you can. 



240 The L A D y's C M P A N I O N. 

Ti; /alt Hams to tafie like Weftphalia ones. 

GET Salt-petre, fait your Ham with it very well, let it 
lie therein for a Week j take clean Afhes of Aih-wocd, 
boil them in fair Water, to a ftrong Lee, let it iland and fet- 
tle 'y then take off the clean Water, and boil it again, make- 
ing it a Urong Broth with ordinary Salt ; when it is cold, 
put in the Ham, let it lie a Month in Brine ; then dry it 
well, without fmoaking, and they will have the right Tafle 
of H'efiphaiia Hams. 

Anther Way, 

Li E T the Ham be hot, being jufl kill'd, and prepare two 
^ Ounces of Bay -fait, and two Ounces of Salt-petre ; 
then cover it, and let it Hand nineDays ; then fait it with thefe 
two Salts, and hang it up in a Chimney of Wood-fmoak 
for three Days ; then hang it in the Kitchen, where it may 
have a little Warmth of the Fire. 

^0 pickle fix Hams of Pork. 

ON E Peck of Bay-falt, Half a Pound of Salt-petre, and 
five Pounds of brown Sugar, being put to as much hot 
Water as will heat^he Hams Blood-warm, miix it well toge- 
ther ; if )Our Hams are large, they muil lie three Weeks in 
Pickle, or more ; but if fmall, two will do : Keep them un- 
der the Pickle, and ilir your Pickle twice a Week w^li to 
them. If you love the right JVeftphalia Tafle, let them hang 
in the Smoak three Weeks or a Month. 

The fame Time will do for a Tongue in the Pickle and 
Smoak, and is the right Way for 7. Piece of Beef of the 
fame Subftance. 

To pickle Pork. 

BONE your Pork, and cut them into Pieces, of a Size 
to lie handfomely in the Tub or Pan you intend to 
pickle it in ; then rub every Piece well with Salt-petrft, and 
take common Salt, and Bay-falt, of the laH Half the Quan- 
ti.ty of the other, and rub the Pieces well again with thefe ; 
^ut Salt at the Bottom of the Vefiel, and lay in the Pieces 
one upon another, as clofe as you can ; cover every Piece 
with Salt, and fll the hollow Places on the Sides with Salt 
likewife ; and as the Salt melts on the Top, llrew on naore j 
thus order '4, it will keep a great while. 



7he L A D y's Companion. 241 

To pickle Pork another Wn-^. 

SALT the principal Pieces of Pork lightly with ordinnrr 
Salt ; then lay them hollow, that the Blord may drain 
from it, with the flefhy Side downwards ; let it lie two or 
three Days amongft: the Salt; put foniC beaten white Pepper, 
and a few Cloves bruis'd ; fait it well, and pack it very clcfe 
in the Thing you keep it in, with the Rind downwards, co- 
ver it with Salt, and when it has flood near three Weeks, put 
in fo much Salt and Pickle as will cover it ; and then iay a 
falfe Bottom on the Top, to keep it under Pickk. W;; put 
the ordinary and bony Pieces by themlelves. 

Another Way. 

TAKE one Gallon of Spring Water, Haifa Pound of 
Bay-falt, the like Quantity of coarfe Sugar, three 
Ounces of Sait-petre, which nuift be boiPd all together, and 
you mufl flcim it when cold ; the Pork is to be cut into what 
iiz'd Pieces you think moft proper, which muft be laij down 
clofe, and then pour the Liquor i.pon it ; it muft be kept from 
the Air ; it will be fit for Ufe in about eight Days. If your 
Pickle don't keep well, it nmft be frefh boiPd \ flcim it when 
cold, as before, and then put it to the Meat again. 

Another Way to c!o a Leg of Pork Ham Yojjrcn^ 

MAKE your Pickle ftrong enough with common Sa;t 
to bear an Egg, and enough to cover two Hams, the;;, 
put in fix Ounces of Salt-perre, three Quarters of a Pound oF 
Bay-falt, and a Pound of brown Sugar ; then boil them al! 
together, and (kim it; let it be cold, then put the Hams in» 
turning them every Day till they are fait enough, which will, 
be near three Weeks ; t ;en take them out, and put melted 
Butter over them, and hang them up. 

Another Way to fait Hams. 

AFTER yoiir Ham has been^kept about twenty-four 
Hours, or double that Time, according to theWeathcr, 
then fait it well with common Salt, and take care to rub it 
well about the Knuckle : To a Ham ol between 20 or ^o 
Pounds,take threeOunces of Salt-petre pounded very fine; take 
Half of it, mix it with aHanuful of common Salt, an drub that 
well into the Ham again; then take the Remainder of the 
Salt petre, and mix it with one Pound of coarfe Sugar, and 
two Pounds of common Salt, and then rub the Ham well -wit'i 
Vol. I. M it 



242 ^he Lad y's C o m p a n ion. 

5t as before : Let it lie in this fci three V- teks, but be furc 
to turr\ it every Bay, rubbing it well with the Brine it lies in ; 
after which hang it up to dry. 

To make Beef Hams. 

TA K E a fmall Leg of Beef, cut Ham Fafhion ; an 
Ounce of Bay-falt, the like Quantity of Salt-petre, 
one Found of con n on Salt, ana a Found of cc«ile Su^ar, 
(which Quantity will ferve lOr near twenty Fcuids of Eeef) 
tiie Meatmuft be well rubb d with the above Ingredients, 
and turn'd every Day ; when it has laid a IVionth, at icaft, 
take it out, roil it in Bran, and hang it in \^ cog Smoak I'or 
a Month, but not too near the Fire ; when }ou have cone 
thus, it may be removed into a Place for Uie, but dcn't let it 
hang too hot. 

7o trch Veal Hams. 

GE T a Leg of Veal cut like a Ham ; then take a Pint 
of Bay-falt, two Our.cei of Salt petre, andcne Pound 
of comn.on Salt, mix them together, wiih one Ounce of Ju- 
niper berries, beat ; rub the Ham well wi:h thefe Ingredi- 
dients, and lay it in any Thing of a fit Size, with the Skin 
downwards ; it mufl be rubb'd eveiy Day with the Pickle, 
for at leall fixteei. Days ; aftewards, hang it in Wood-: nioak 
for as many Days. 1 hefe Hams are lometimes boiPd, and 
fometimies roalled ; either Way they are \tiy good. The 
Pickle that is left will do four or five Tongues. 

fo make Mutton Hams. 

("^ E T a large, fleiliy Leg of Mutton, cut like a Ham ; 
JT take one Ounce of Salt-petre, a Pound of coarle iugar, 
the like Quantity of common Salt, mix them, and lub your 
Ham tncrewith ; lay it (in any Thing you have lar^e enough 
to hold it) with the Skin-fide downwards, and mind to rub it 
every Day, for fixteen Days ; then roll it in Bran, and hang 
it in Wood- Smoak for a Fortnight ; it may then be hung by 
for Ufe ; it eats beft broiPd in Rafliers. 

You may omit: the Salt petre in doing Hams of all Kinds, 
as it is well known it makes them hard ; the red Colour it 
procures, may be had by ufing a fmall Quantity of Cochineal 
to tindure the Pickle withal ; nor is the Cochineal amifs, 
notwithllanding the Salt-petre be ufed. 



% 



The Lady's Companion; 245 

To drefs a Ham a la B) aife. 

CLEAN the Knuckle, take oiFthe Swerd, and lay it in' 
Water to freihen ; then tie \l about wich a String i take 
Slices of Bacon and Beef, beat and lea^bn them vveil -.vith. 
Spice, and fweet Herbs, lay them in the Bottom of the Ket le 
with Onions, Parinips, and Carrots ilic'd, alio Tome Cives 
and Pariley ; lay in your Ham the fat Side uppermoft, lay 
over it Slices of Beef, and upon ihem Slices of Dacon, iXiid 
cover them with the fiic'dPv03ts and rlerbs as under i;, cover 
the Kettle with its own Cover, a:id clofe it up wich Paile ; 
put rire both over and under it. and let it fiew with a gentle 
Fire for twelve Hours ; then fet it by to cool ; when it is 
cold, untie it, put it into a Pan, drudge it well with grated 
Bread, and brown it wkh a hot Iron j then ferve it up, gar- 
mfh'd with raw Pariley. 

If it is to be eat hot, lay it in a Difh, and pour over it the 
Ragoo following : Take Veal Sweetbreads, Livers of Fowls* 
Cocks-combs, Mufhrooms, and Truffies ; tpfs thefe up in a 
little melted Bacon, moiften then with Gravy, and fet them 
on the Fire a fimmering for Half an Hour, then take Oii the 
Fat, and thicken it with a Cullis of Veal and Ham. Serve 
it thus for a firft Ccurfe. 

So.A.etimes it is ferv'd up with a Ragoo of Crawfifti, and 
fometimes with a Carp Sauce. 

To rcafi a Ham or Gammon. 

TA K E off t\\Q Swerd, and lay it a freHienlng in luke- 
warm Water ; then lay it in a Pan, pour upon it a 
Qu ^rt of Canary, and let it fleep in it for ten or twelve Hours. 
When you ha/e fpitted it, put ibme Sheets of white Paper 
over the fat Side, pour the Canary, in which it was foak'd,. 
into the Dripping pan, and ba;l:e it with it all the while it is 
roafting; when it is roafted enough, pull off theF:.per, and 
drudge it well with crumbled Bread and i arfley fhred fine; 
make the Fire brilk, brovvm it well, and ict it by to ccoii 
ferve it with green Pariley for a fecond Courfe. 

To make Effence of Ham. 

GE T the Fat off a Ham, and cut the Lean in Slices ; 
beat them well, and lay them in the Bottom of the 
Stew-pan, with Slices of Carrots, P.-nhips, and Onions; 
cover your Pan, and fet it over a gentle Fire ; let them Hew 
till they begin to ftick, then fprinkle on a little Flour, and 

M 2 tarn 



244 ^^^ Lady's Companion. 

turn them ; then moiflen them with Broth and Veal Gravy; 
feafon them with three or four JVlulhrooniS, as many 1 rrffics, 
a whole Leek, IbmeBafil, Parfley, and Half a Dozen Cloves, 
or inllead of the Leek, you may put a Clove of Garlick : Put 
in feme Cruils of Bread, and let them fimmei over the Fire 
for three Quarters of an Hour ; llrain it, and fet it by for 
Ufe. 

T^o ronji Pork 'without the Skin. 

TAKE any Joint of Pork, not falted, and lay it down 
to the Fire till the Skin may be taken off; then take 
it up, and take off the Skin ; then fait it and roaft it ; make 
Sauce for it of Red Wine, Crumb of Bread flic'd thin, and a 
little Water ; boil all thefe together, put to it feme Salt, a 
Piece of Butter, and the Juice of a Lemon, orVineg,ar; when 
your Fork is roailed enough, flour it, lay it in a Difh, and 
pour your Sauce over it. 

To roafi a Brcafi of Pork. 
^n|*^A KP^ a Fore-quarter of Pork, cut ofF the Knuckle, 
X. leave as much Skin on the Breaft as you can ; divide 
the Neck from the Breaft, leaving the Breail as large as you 
can ; take the Bones out of the Breaft, and rub it well over 
with Salt ; then having fhred Sage and Thym.e fmall, and 
beaten a Nutn eg, Cloves, and Mace fmall, mix the Spice 
and Herbs together, and ftrew them thick all over the Meat, 
and rub it well in ; then roll it up tight with the Flefti in- 
ward, tie it faft together, fpit it length-ways, and roaft it. 

Te broil Pork Steaks. 

TA KE a Loin of Pork, cut off the Skin, and fome of 
the Fat ; then cut oft the Steaks very thin, and beat 
them with your Cleaver, as broad and as thin as you can ; 
ieafon them with Salt and Sage flired fine ; then lay them on 
your Gridiron, and feafon the other Side ; let your Sauce be 
drawn Butter, X'megar, and Muftard ; when they are ready 
difh them up, and put the Sauce over them. 

Another Way. 

TAKE a Loin, or Neck of Fork, cut off the Skin, and 
cut it into Cutlets, feafon them with Sage, Parfley, and 
Thyme, cut fmall. Pepper, and Salt, and Crumbs of Bread ; 
mince all together, and broil them ; fauce them with Jv'iuft- 
ard. Butter, Shalot, Vinegar, and Gravy j fo ferve them away 
hot. 

To 



ne Lady*s Companion. 245 

To drefs a loin of Pork nxilth Onions. 

TA KE a Fore-loin of Pork, and roaft it, as at another 
Time, peel a Quarter of a Peck of Onions, and dice 
them thin, lay them in the Dripping-pan, which muft bs 
very clean, under the Pork, let the Fat drop on them ; when 
the Pork is nigh enough, put the Onions into a Sauce pan ; 
let them fanmer over the Fire a Quarter of an Hour, fhaking 
them well, then pour out all the Fat as \vell as you can, 
fnake in a very little Flour, a Spoonful of Vinega'-, and three 
Tea-fpoonfuls of Muiiard, {hake all well together, and inr 
in the Muftard, fet it over the Fire for four or five IVlinutes, 
lay the Pork in a Dilh, and tne Onions in a Bafon. 

A Hog's Head Cheef fa/hi on. 
ONE it, and lay it to cleanfe tvv'enty four Hours in Wa- 
ter and Salt, and fcrape it well, and white, lay Salt on 
the Infide, to the Fhicknefs of a Crown Piece, and boil it 
very tender, then lay it in a Cheefe-prefs, cover it v/ith a 
Cloth, and when coid it will be like a Cheefe. You may 
fauce it. 

Chine or Leg of Pork roajled and ftuffed. 

TA K E a Leg, or Chine, and make a Stuffing with 
Sage, Parfley, Thyme, and the fat Leaf of the Pork, 
Eggs, and Crumbs of Bread; feafon with Pepper, Salt, Nut- 
meg, and Shalot, and Huff it thick, then roall it gently, and 
when a quarter roailed, cut the Skin in Slips ; make yoiir 
Sauce with Lemon peel, Apples, Sugar, Butter, and IViu.l- 
ard. 

To drefs a Leg of a Wild Boar. 

YOUR Leg being larded with thick B .con, v.v^\ Te-- 
fon'd with Salt, Pepper, fweet Herbs, fine Spices, Parf- 
ley, and Chibbol, cut fmall, let it be pickled witn Vmcs; r. 
Juniper-berries, Salt, Pepper, Onions, fome Sprig:? of Pariley, 
fweet Bafd, Thyme, and Bay -leaves ; and, being pickic^ 
enough, put it on the Spit, bafting it with your pickled Li- 
quor ; when it is enough roafted, difli it up, and, putting a 
Pepper and Vinegar Sauce over it, ferve it up for the nni: 
Courfe. A Fore- quarter, or a Shoulder, may be drefsM ths 
fame Way. 

TV broil Melts. 

TA K E the largeft and frefheft Hog's Melts, few them 
up on each Side, and at one End, Ibff them with Sage 
and Onion cut fmall, feafon'd with Salt and Pepper; t ^n 

M 3 few 



24^ '^^^ Lady's Companion. 

few up the other End, and lay them on to broil over a mo- 
derate Fire : Serve them up with drawn Gravy, with or with- 
out Claret, having firfl drawn out the Thi;eads. 

Another Way. 

R E P A R E them as above, and fluff them with the fame 

Ingredients you ufe for Veal. 

Hogs Ears forced. 

TAKE four Kogs Ears and half-boil them, or take 'em 
fous'd; make a Force- n.ea: thus . Take Half a Pound 
of Beef-fev/et, as much crumbled Bread, an Anchovy, fome 
Sage, boil and chop very fine a litcic Panley, mix all toge- 
ther with the Yolk of an Egg, a little Pepper, fiit your Ears 
very careiuUy to make a Place for your Stuffing, fill them, 
Hour them, and fry them in frefn Butter, till they are of a fine 
light Brov^/n ; then pour out all the Fat clean, and put to 
them Half a Pint of Gravy, a Glafs of White Wine, three 
Tea-fpoonfuls of Muilard, a Piece of Butter as big as a 
Nutmeg roll'd in Flour, a little Pepper, a fmall Onion 
whole ; cover them cloie, and let them ftew foftly Half an 
Hour, Ihaking your Pan row and then. When they are 
enough, lay them in your Difli, and pour your Sauce over 
them ; but firfl: take out the Onion. This makes a very 
' pretty Difh ; but if you would make a fine large Dilh, take 
the Feet, and cut all the Meat in fmall thin Pieces, and Hew 
with the Ears. Seafon with Salt to your Palate. 

To drefs Hogs Feet and Ears. 

■^ H E N you have clean'd them well, put them into a 
Eaking-pan, with a Bay-leaf, a large Onion, and 
as n uch Water as will cover them, fealbn with Salt and 
Pepper, r.rd bake them ; keep them in this Pickle till they 
•are ••./anted ; then take them out, and, cutting them in hand- 
foiue Pieces, fry them; and take for Sauce three Spoonfuls 
cf the Pickle, (hake in fome Flour, a Piece of Butter, and a 
Spoonful of Muftard : lay the Ears in the Middle of the Difh, 
tlie Feet round, and pour the Sauce over. 

To pick!e Pigs Feet and Ears. 

TAKE your Feet and Ears iinglc, and wafh them well, 
fplit the Feet in two, put a Bay-leaf between every 
Foot; put in almoft as much Water as will cover them. 
When they are well foak'd, add to them. Clove?, Mace, 

whol<?- 



TT?^ L A D y's Companion, 247 

whole Pepper, and Ginger, Ccriander-feed, and Salt, accord- 
ing to your Dircretion ; put to them a Bottle or two Oi Rhe- 
nijh Wine, according to the Quantity you do, Half a Score 
Bay-leaves, and a Bunch of fweec Herbs : Let 'em boil foftly, 
till they are very tender ; then take them cut of the Liquor, 
lay them in an earthen Pot, then (hain the Liquor over 'em; 
when they are cold, cover them down ciofe, and keep them 
for Ufe. 

■ You {hou!d let them ftand to be coM ; fkim off all the Fat, 
and then pa: in the Wine and -'pice. 

They eat well cold ; or at a;iy Time heat them in the 
Jelly, and thicken it with a little Piece of iJutter roU'd in 
Flour, and it makes a very pretiy Dih ; or heat the Ears, 
and takj the Feet clean out of the Jelly, and roll it in Yolk 
of Egg, or melted Butter, and then in Crumbs of Bread, and 
broil them; or fry them in frefh Butter ; lay the Ears in the 
Middle, and the ^Qzt round, and pour the Sauce over ; or 
you may cut the Ears in long Slips, which is better : And if 
you chu e it, make a good brown Gravy to mix with them, 
a Glafs of White Wine, and fome Muitard, thicken'd with a 
Piece of Butter rolled in Flour. 

In Imitation of Brawn. 

BO I L two or three Pair of Neats Feet very tender, then 
take a Piece of Pork, boii it near enough ; then pick 
the Flefh oH° the Feet, roll .t up in the Pork, as they do 
Brawn, very tight ; then take a ftrong Cloth, wi.h fome 
coarfe Tape, roll it tight round, and tie it up in a Cloth, and 
boil it till it is fo tender you may run a Straw through it ; le: 
it be hung up in a Cloth till it is quite cold ; after v\hich, 
put it into fome foufing Liquor, and it is fit for Ufe. 
Soufe for Brawn. 

BOIL half Beer and half Water, and Wheat-bran and 
Salt vv^ell together, and fo ftrain it ; and when it is cold, 
add more Salt, and in a Fortnight new boil it. 
A Pig roapd, 

PU T in the Belly a Piece of Bread, fome Sage and Parf - 
ley chopped fmall, and fome Salt j few up the Belly, 
and fpit it, and roafl it ; when warm thorough, rub it all over 
with a Feather dipt in Oil, to prevent its bliilering, or a Piece 
of Butter on Paper ; when enough, cut off the Ears and 
the Under- jaws, and lay round yourDilh, and make a Sauce 
with the Brains, thick Butter, Gravy, and Vinegar, and lay 
under : Make Currant-Sauce in a Cup. 

M 4 ^ ,^ Pig 



248 The Lady's CoNfPANiON. 



J Pig three Ways. 

"Y? I R S T fldn your Pig up to the Ears, and then cut it in 
J/ Quarters, and draw it, with Thyme and Lemon, as you 
do Lamb, or roall it plain as Lamb ; fend it to the Table 
with Mint-fauce, and garniili with Water crelTes ; then take 
the Skin, and make a good thick Plumb- pudding Batter with 
good Sewet, Fruit, and Eggs -, fill up the Skin to the Ears, 
which few up, and put it in your Oven, and bake it, and it 
will appear as a roall Pig. Another Way : When you go to 
kill your Pig, whip him about the Yard till he lies down, 
vhen flick him, fcald him, and roat]: hi r, and he will eat 
well ; or you may bone him, and fluff him with goodfavoury 
Force-meat, or roall: him plain with Sage, Salt, and Bread, 
in his Belly, and ferve with Currant-fauce, and favoury 
Sauce under. 

-^ Fig Lamb Tajhion. 

SKIN it, and leave the Skin whole with the Head on, 
then chine it down as Mutton, and lard it with Lemon- 
peel and Thyme, and roaft them in Quarters as Lamb ; the 
other Part fill full with a good Country thick Plumb-pudding; 
few up the Belly, and bake it ; the Pig will look as if roaft- 
cd. 

To roaft the Hind-quarter of a Pig Lamb Fojhion, 

T the Time of the Year when Houfe-lamb is very 
dcnr, take the Hind quarter of a large Pig ; take off 
the Skin and roaft it, and it will eat like Lamb with Mint- 
fauce, or with a Sallad, or Se-vUle Orange. Half an Hour 
vsill roart it. 

A Pig RoUiard. 

O U muft bone it, leaving the Head whole, and vvafli 
it over with Eggs ; feafon it with Pepper, Salt, and 
TNutmeg, and lay over fome Force-meat, then roll it up, and 
either roall: it, or bake, or ftove it : You may cut it in fix 
Pieces, and fend the Head in the Middle ; make Sauce with 
the Brains and Sage, Butter, Gravy, and \'inegar ; fo ferve 
av.'ay hot. 

A Pig in Jdly. 

CUT it in Quarters, and lay it in a Stew-pan : To one 
Calf's Foot, and the Fig's Feet, put in a Pint of Rhtrijh 
Wixic, the Juice of four Lemons, ard one Quart of Water ; 

feafon 



ne Lady's Companion. 249 

feafon with Nutmeg and Salt ; flove it gently two Hours, let 
it Hand till cold, and fend it up in its Jelly. 

To drefs a Pig the French Way. 

SPIT your Pig, lay it down to the Fire, and let it roaft 
till it IS thoroughly warm, then cut it oiF the Spit, and 
divide it into about twenty Pieces, Tet them to flew in White 
Wine and ftrong Broth, feafon'd with grated Nutmeg, Pep- 
per, two Onions cut fmall, fbme ftnpp'd Thyme, Gravy, 
Butter, Vinegar, and two or three Anchovies ; tvhen it is 
enough, difh it in the Liquor it was iiew'd in, with fiic'd 
Orange and Lemon upon it. 

To drefs a Pig au Pere-doui/lct. 

CU T ofF the Head, cut the Pig in Quarters i lard them 
with large Lardoons well feafon'd : Lay a Napkin in 
the Bottom of a Kettle, and put ibme Bards of Bacon upon 
it J upon them place the four Quarters of the Pig,' and the 
Head in the Middle of them ; feafon it with Cloves, Nut- 
- meg, Mace, and Cinnamon, with Bafil, Bay-leaf, Salt, Pep- 
per, two Rocamboles, a fiic'd Onion, and Lemon, Carrots, 
Parfnips, Parfley, and Cives, then cover it with Bards of 
Bacon ; and having laid them in a Stew pan, cover it, and 
fet it over a Stove; when it begins to flick, as when y cm 
make Veal-gravy, moiflen it with good Broth, but take care 
to keep it from browning ; pour it into the Kettle, with a 
Bottle of White Wine, and flew your Pig in it : When it is 
enough, take it oiFthe Fire, and if you v/ould ferve it cold, 
in Plates and little Difnes, let it fiand till it is cold in its own 
Liquor ; then take it out, and drain it well, wipe it with a 
Linen Cloth to make it as white as you can, and ferve it en 
a Napkin laid in a Dilh, the Plead in the Middle, the four 
Quarters round it, and garnifh'd with Parfiey. You may like- 
wife ferve it hot, for a Dilh of the firfl Courfe as follows : 
When your Pig is almoil ready, take fome Veal Sweetbreads, 
Mulhrooms, and Truiiies, tofs them up in a Stew-pan, with a 
little melted Bacon ; moillen them with good Gravy, and 
when they have funmer'd till they are ready, take off the Fat, 
and thicken them with a Cullis of Veal and Ham ; or wiih 
the Yolks of Eggs, or a Piece of Butter rolPd in Flour; hav- 
ing thus prepar'd your Ragoo. and the Fig being ready, taiie 
it up, drain it well, lay the Head ;n the xVIiddle'of the Dilh, 
the four (garters round it, fo pour the Ragoo upon it, ai d 
ferve it hot, 

M 5 To 



250 The L A D y's C o m p a n I o ^3■. 

To arefs a Pig the German W^ay. 

C^ E T a Pig, cut it in Quarters, and tols them up in 
y nici.ed Bacon, then boil them in good Broch, feafon'd 
wicn an Cn.on ituck with Cloves, a Faggot of Herbs, Salt, 
Pepper, rnd Nutmeg ; when it is almoit boil'd, put in Half 
a Bmt of VVnite Wine : 1 hen tofs up in the fame melted Ba- 
con, in which you tofs'd up your Fig. fome Oyllers, and a 
little Flour, a biice or two of Len.on, fome Capers, and 
ilon d Olives : Vv hen you a e ready to itive. away, fqueeze 
in he Juic^of a Lemon, and garniiii the Brims of yourDifk 
with the Brams of your Pig Iry'd, and fome fry'd Farlley. 

y/ t'ig Metelot. 

GU T and fcald your Pig, and cut off the Head and Petty- 
toes, then cut your Pig in four Qcarters, put them, 
with the Head and Toes, in cold Water ; cover the Bottom 
of a Stew-pan with Slices of Bacon, and place over them the 
faid Quarters with the Petty-tees, and the Ktaci cut in two : 
Seafon tlie Whole v^ith Salt, Pepper, fweet Baffi, T.,yme, 
Bay-leaves, Onions cut in Slices, with a Bottle of White 
AVine ; lay over more Slices of Bacon, pour over it a little 
Water, let it boil j take two large Eels, Ikin, gut, and wafh 
them ; cut them into Pieces of hve or {\x In<_hes long, and 
when your Pig is half boiPd, put in your Eels ; then boil a 
Dozen of large Crawfifii, cut off the Claws, and take off the 
Shells of the Tails. When your Pig and Eels are enough, 
lay firft your Pig, with the Petty-toes, and the Head, into the 
Diiii you def gn to ferve them up in ; then place over them 
your Eels and Crawfilh, with lome Ham Gravy, and fome 
CuUis of Crawfiih, if ycu have any ; or take the Liquor they, 
were boiPd in, fkim off all the Fat, then add to it Half a Pint 
of ilrong Gravy, thickened with a little Piece of burnt Butter, 
and pour over it j then garnifh with Crawiifh and Lemon; 
fry the Brains, and lay round the Difn. 

To foufe a Pig. 

CUT off the Head of a large Pig, then ilit him througli 
the Middle, then take out his Bones, then lay him in 
warm Water one Night, then collar him up like Brawn ; 
then boil him tender in Water, and when he is boil'd, put 
him in an Earthen Pan, in Water and Salt, for that will make 
him white, and feafon the Flefia, for you muft not put Salt in 
the Boiling, for that will make it black j then take a Quart 

of 



The Lady's Companion. 251 

of the fame Broth, and a Quart of White Wine, boil them 
together to make fome Soufe for it ; put into it two or three 
Bay-leaves : When it is cold, uncloath the Pig, and put it 
into the fame Soufe^ and it will continue a Quarier of a Year. 
It is a RccefTary Difn in any Gentleman's Houfe Wlien 
you feive it in, ferve it with green Fennel, as you do Stur- 
geon, with Vinegar in Saucers. 

To roaft a Pig n^Jtth the Hair on, 

DRAW your Pig very clean at the Vent, taking out the 
Guts, Liver, and Lights ; cut oiF his Feet, and truis 
him ; prick up the Bel!/, fpit him, lay him down to the Fire, 
take care not to fcorch him : When the Skin begins to rife 
up in Bliilers, pull off the Skin and Hair : When you have 
cleared the Pig of both, Icotch him down to the Bones, balle 
him with Butter and Cream, being warm ; then take Salt, 
Sugar, and grated Bread, mingled together, and drudge him 
with it, till It is covered Half an Inch or an Inch thick : 
When it is roafted enough, ferve it up Whole, with Sauce 
made of V/ine Vinegar, whole Cloves, whole Cinnamon^ 
and Sugar, boil'd to a Syrup. 

To roaji a Pig ^^:ith the Skin off, 

LE T your Pig be newly kill'd, draw him, flea him, 
and wipe him very dry with a Cloth ; then lay him 
by, and make a hard Meat with Cream, the Yolks of Egge, 
grated Bread, Salt, Beef-fewet, Cloves, beaten Mace, and 
Thyme Hired ; make of thefe a pretty ftift Pudding, fluit 
the Belly of the Pig with it, few it up ; then fpit your Pig, 
flick it full with Sprigs of Thyme ; lay it down to the Fire, 
fet under it a Difh with Claret, Salt, Vinegar, a Nutmeg- 
grated, and Thyme : As the Pig roails, bafle it with thefe, 
and when it is enough, froth it up with Butter ; then tak^ 
the Sauce into which it dropped, and put to it a Piece of 
Butter, and fome Le ? on minc'd j and having beat it up 
thick, diiOi your Pig with it. 

To hcil a Pig. 

TA KE a young fucking Pig, and lay him round with 
hisTail in hisMouth, and put him into a Pot of Water, 
throw in a good Handful of Salt j put in a Bunch of fweet 

Mar- 



2^1 Th L A D Y 'S C M P A N I O NT. 

Marjoram, Winter-favoury, Thyme, and Rofemary ; when 
the Pig is half boil'd, take it up, and ilea off his Skin, then 
cut him into Quarters, and hy him in a Stev/-pan with Cur- 
rants, and Mace : When he is ilevv'd enough take him up, 
lay Sippets in the Dilh, the Pig on them, and pour the afore- 
laid Ingredients over him. 

* pother Way. 

CU T your Pig in Quarters, and boil them in good Broth, 
feafon'd with an Onicn fluck w ith Cloves, a Bundle of 
Pot-herbs, Salt, Pepper, and Nutmeg ; when they are near 
boil'd put in a Pint of White Wine ,• let your Sauce be Oy- 
llers, (ome Slices of Lemon, and Capers ; garnifh your Dilh 
with the Brains of your Pig fry'd, and fome fry'd Parlley, 
laying a little Heap of Brains, and ?.nother of Parfley. 

^Q mah a Pig tajle like a Wild Boar. 

TA K E a living Pig, and let him fwallow the following 
Drink, i;/s. boil in a Stew-pan a little Water and 
Vinegar, with fome Rofemary, Thyme, fvveet Bafil, Penny- 
royal, Bay-leaves, Sage, and Marjoram : This being boil'd, 
and then cold, make the Pig fwallow it, and whip him to 
Death ; let him lay to cool aLout two Hours, and, when cold, 
gut him, and put a Bunch of the fame fweet Herbs, ufed in 
the Draught, into his Belly ; then fkin all the Pig but the 
ilead,.- which mui^ be finged ; cut the Ears clofe off; trufs 
it, and lard it with middling Bacon, put it on the Spit, and, 
v.'-hen roailcd, ferve it up hot with Pepper and Vinegar Sauce 
ever it. ^f 

Dljerent Sorts of Sauce for a Fig.. 

OME don't love any Sage in the Pig, only a Cruft of 
Bread ; but then you fhould have a little dry'd Sage 
xu^dgd, and mix'd with rf^Gravy and Butter. Some love 
Er^w-fauce in a Bafon, nRde thus : Take a Pint of Water, 
put in a good Piece of Crumb of Bread, a Blade of Mace, 
and a little whole Pepper ; boil it for about five or fix Mi- 
nutes, and then pour the Water off; take out the Spice, and 
beat up the Bread with a good Piece of Butter. Some love a 
few Currants boil'd in it, a Glafs of Wine, and a little Sugar ; 
i)ut that you muft do juft as you like it. Others take Half a 

Pint 



s 



'The L A D y's ^ompanio!^. 255 

Pint of good Beef gravy, and the Gravy which comes rut of 
the Pig,"with a Pievcor Butter roU'd in Flour, two Spoonfuls *' 
of Catchup, and boil them all together ; then take the Brains : 
of the Pig and bruife them fine, with two Eggs boiPd hard ^ 
and chopped ; put all thefe together, with Sage in the Pig, 
and pour into your Difh. It is very good Sauce. When you 
have not Gravy enough comes out of your Pig with the But- 
ter for Sauce, take about Half a Pint of Veal -gravy, and add 
to it : Or flew the Petty-toes, and take as much of that Li- 
quor as will do for Sauce mix'd with tke other. 

To drejs Pigs Petty-toes a la Sante Menthout^ 

AFTER having drefs'd your Petty-toes, divide them 
into Halves, and tie every Petty toe together; then 
lay into a Stew-pan, or Pot, Bards of Bacon in the Bottom, 
and upon them lay a Layer of Petty-tots and fweet Herbs, 
and upon them lay a Layer of Pe.ty toes and Bards of Ba- 
con, and do the fame till you have laid in all your Petty torf; . 
then put to them a Quart of White Wine, a Bay-leaf or t\^' . 
a little Coriander and Annifeeds, then cover all over with ; 
Bards of Bacon; line the Edges of the Stew-pan, or Pot, with \ 
ftrong Paper, fo that the Lid may be exadly fitted, and ftop 
it up very clofe j then fet them to ftew a la Braife^ or be- 
tween two Fires, the one under, and the other over, but let 
not your Fire be too biilk, that the Petty toes may ftew lei- 
furely for ten or twelve Hours ; then take rhem out, cool 
them, and bread them neatly, then lay them on a Gridiron, 
and broil them, to be ferv'd up hot among the Intermefies. 

To make Royal Saufages. 

CET fome Flefh of Partridges, Quails, Snipes, and Pi- 
-^ geons, fome of a Chicken, with Veal, and Fat of 
Ham ; all mull be raw, and mix thefe with Cives, Parj^ey, 
MufhrooiiiS, and Truffles, five Eggs, the White:, of but two, 
and two Spoonfuls of Cream ; feafon all this with Pepper,:Salt, 
Mace, Nutmeg, and Cinnamon, and a little Onion, and roll 
it up in large Rolls ; and cut Slices of Veal, and roll round 
each Saufage, being about fix Inches in Length, and three in 
Thicknefs, ftew them in your Pan upon Slices of Bacon, and 
cover them with thm Slices of Beef, over a clear Fire, not too 
ferce, and cover your Fan very dole'; they will take up fome 
Time in doing ; and when done, fet them by to be cold, and 

take 



254 5y&^ La D y's Com PA N I o N. 

take them from the Fat, and the Veal, and cut them in what 
Size you will, and ferve them. Garnifh with Lemon-peel. 

Oyfter Saufages 

TA K E a Pound of the Lean of a leg of Mutton, and 
two Pounds of Beef-fewet Ihred very fine, take a Pint 
and Half of Oyfters, ihred them likewiie, then take a Hand- 
ful of Sage chopped very fmall, mixthefe with the Liquor of 
the Oyiters, feafon with Pepper, Salt, Cloves, and Mace, 
break three Eggs amongfl it, and work them all up together, 
make them up as you ufe them, and fry them in Butter. 

Oxford Saufages. 

CHOP the Lean of a Leg of Pork or Veal, fmali, with 
foui Pounds of Biaer or Beef-fewet; then feafon the 
Meat v-ith Salt, three Quarteis of an Ounce of Pepper. Half 
the Quantity of Cloves ;:!,c Mace, and a goou Hundful of 
Sage chopped fmall : l.lingle all thele well together; then 
take the Yolks of ten Eggb, and the Whites but of fevea, and 
tempe: ihem well with the Meat ; and as ycu ufe them roll 
them one, with Flour, if you plcafe ; make Butter boiling hot 
in a Frying-pan, and fry them brovv'n \ then eat them with 
Muftard, 

To r ake common Saufages. 

TAKE three Pounds of nice Pork, Fat and Lean toge- 
ther, without Skm or Griftles ; chop it as fine as pof- 
fible, feafon it with a Tea-fpoonful of be.iten Pepper, and 
two of Salt, fome Sage (hred fine j about three Tea-froon- 
fuls ; mix it well together ; have the Guts very nicely clean'd, 
and fill them, or put them down in a Pot, fo roll them of 
what Size you pleafe, and fry them. Beef makes very good 
Saufages. 

To make fine Saufages. 

TAKE fix Pounds of good Pork, free from Skin, and 
Griilles and Fac, cut it very fmall, and beat it in a 
Mortar till it is very fine ; fhred fix Pounds o*^ Beef-fewet 
very fine, free from all Skin ; ihred it a.-, fine as polfible ; take 
a good deal of Sag::, wafh \l very clean, pick off the Leaves, 
and Ihred it very fine. -Iprena your Meat on a clean DrefTerj 
or Table, and (hake jie Sage all over, abojt tliree large 
Spoonfuls; flired the thin Rind of a middlii.g Lemon very 
fine, and throw over, with as many iweet Herbs, wnen Ihred 

fine. 



The Lady's Companion. q.^^ 

fine, as will fill a large Spoon ; grate two large Nutmegs over, 
throw overtwoTea-ipoonfulsof Pepper, a large Tea-fpoonful 
of Salt, then throw over the Sewet, and mix all well »-ogether, 
put it down clofe in a Pot j when you ufe them, roil tiiem up 
with as much Egg as will make them roll fmooth. Make 
them the Size ot a Saufage, and fry them in Butter, or good 
Dripping. Be fare it be hoc before you put them in, and 
keep rolling them about. When they are thorough hot, and 
of a fine light-brovvn, they are enough. You may chop this 
Meat very fine, if you don^tlike it beat. Veal eais well done 
thus, or Veal and Fork together. You may clean fome Guts, 
and fill them. 

7o fry Saufages. 

TAKE Half a Pound of Saufages, and fix Apples; 
ilice fcur about as thick as a Crown, cut the other two 
in Quarters, fry them with the Saufages of a finelightBrown, 
lay the Saufages in the Pviiddle of the Difh, and the Apples 
round. Garnilh with tiie quaricr'd Apples. 

Stew'd Cabbage and Saufages fry'd is a good Dilli, then 
heat cold Peas-pudding in the Pan, lay it in a Diih, and the 
Saufages round, heap th^ budding in the Middle, and lay the 
Saulages all round thick, up Edge-ways, and one in the Mid- 
dle at Length. 

7o make Bolognia Saufages. 

TA K E a Found of Bacon, Fat and Lean together, r 
Pound of Beef, a Pound of Veal, a Pound oif Pork, 
and one Pound of Beef-fewet, cut them fmall, and chop them 
fine i take a fmall Handful of Sage, pick oft the Leaves, 
chop it fine, with a few fweet Herbs ; feafon pretty high with 
Pepper and Salt: You muft havj a large Gut, and rill it ; 
then fet on a Sauce-pan of Water, and when it boils, put it 
in, prick the Gut for fear of burfcing. Boil it foftiy an Hour, 
then lay it on clean Straw to dry. They will be good a 
Year. 

Another Way, 

TA KE three Pounds of Buttock of Beef, and as much 
of a Leg of Pork ; of the Fat of Pork or Bacon, two 
Pounds or better; of Beef-fewet a Pound and Half; parboil 
the Meat over a fiack Fire for an Hour ; then fared it fmall, 
each by itfelf ; afterwards fhred the Pork-fat an Sjwet by 
themfelves; then take red Sage, Savoury, Thyme, and 

Penny- 



256 The Lady's Companion. 

Penny-royal, of each an equal Quantity, and the Weight of 
two Ounces in the Whole; fhred thele very fine, mix them 
with Nutmeg, Cinnamon, Cloves, and Mace, grofly pow- 
der'd, ail together fix Drachms. Mix Meat, Herbs, and 
Spices all well together, with a iufRcient Quantity of Salt ; 
then add theYolks of twelve Eggs, and four Ounces of Flour, 
made into a foft Pafte : Mix thefe all well together, and 
pound them in a Mortar, and having cleansed and prepared 
Ox-guts, fill them with the Meat, tie them up ; then fmoak 
and dry them in a Tin Stove over a Fire made of Saw dufl, 
for three or four Days. Eat them with Oil and Vinegar. 

Cleanfe the Ox-guts from their Filth, cut them into proper 
Lengths ; lay them in Water and Salt, let them lie for three 
or four Days, turning them.infide cut, and waih them well 
till they are clean and white. 

^0 roaji e. Havnch of Venifon. 

MAKE up a fubftantia! Fire before you lay it down, 
then bafte it and fioar it, and wich very £ne Skewers 
fallen a Piece of Veal Caul over the fat Fart ; if that cannot 
be had, the White of an Egg, or Paper well butter'd, will 
ferve. A Haunch of tv/elve Founds Weight wid take up - 
three full Hours to be well roafted. Your Sauce muft be 
Gravy, with a great deal of Claret in it. The falhionablc 
fweet Sauce is jelly of Currants ii.ade hot ; what was for- 
merly ufed was Pap Sauce, made of White Bread boiPd in 
Claret, with a large Stick of Cinnamon, and when boiFd till 
fmooth, take out the Cinnamon. 

Another Way. 

LARD it with Bacon; then roaft it with a brilk Fire, 
but let it not lie too near it ; bafte it vv^th frefh Butter, 
then boil a Pint of Claret, with a littl - beaten Ginger, Cinna- 
mon and Sugar, with Half a Dozen whole Cloves, and fome 
grated Bread : and when they nave boiPd enough, put in a 
little Salt, Vinegar, and freih Butter ; dilh your Venifon, 
Hrew Salt about the Difh, and ferve it with this Sauce. 

Another Way, 

YOUR Haunch being larded with thick Bacon, and 
feafon'd with Salt, Pepper, Ivveet Heibs, fine Spices, 
Parfiey, and Chibboi, cut fmall, pickle it witn Vinegar, Salt, 
Pepper, Onions, fome Sprigs of Parfiey, fvvset Bafii, Thyme, 
and Bay-leaves ; being pickled enough put it on the Spit, 

bafiin g 



^he Lad v's Com PAN ION. it^j 

bafting it with your pickled Liquor ; being taken off, difli it 
up, and putting feme Pepper and Vinegar over it, with thick 
Sauce, lerve it up hot. 

Another lVa)\ 

SP IT it, then rub it over with Butter, then butter a Sheet 
ofWriting-paper, and put over it; then make a Pafle of 
Flo'jr and Water, roll it oat to the Size of the Haunch, and 
put it over the Paper; then get another Sheet of large Paper, 
butter it, and put over the Pafte ; then tie Packthread over 
all ; when enough, ferve it with Gravy-fauce and Currant- 
jelly. 

Another iVay. 

SPIT and cover it with thick butter'd Paper, and roail it, 
bailing it with a Quart of Water and a Pound of Fat in 
the Fan till it is all dry ; then take off the Paper, and drudge 
it with grated Bread and Flour, and bafte it with almofl a 
Pound of Butter ; when it is roaftcd, lay it in the Difli with 
Gravy, and let your Gallendine iri Chirja Bafons. 

You may make Olives, or Kicotch Collops, of a Haunch of 
Venifon, as of Veal. 

To roajl a Shoulder ^ or other Joints of Venifon. 

LARD it with large Lardoons of Bacon, feafon'd with 
Salt, Pepper, Nutmeg, and Cloves beaten ; then lay it 
for three or four Hours in a Marinade of White Wine, Salt, 
Verjuice, three or four Bay-leaves, Slices of Lemon, and a 
Faggot of fweet Herbs ; then fpit it, roaft it at a gentle Fire, 
bafte it with its own Pickle ; put fome good Cullis into the 
Dripping to bind it, and add white Pepper, Verjuice, or 
Juice of Lemon, Vinegar, and Capers ; juft before you ferve 
it, lay your Venifon into this Sauce, and ferve it. 

A Ci'vet of Venifon. 
O I L a Breafl: or Neck, cut it in Cutlets, and when it is 
almofl boiPd take a Stew-pan, and brown in it half a 
Pound of Butter, and as it browns, add a Quarter of a Pound 
of Flour, little and little, till the Brown be of a good Colour ; 
be fure not to burn it : Then add Half a Pound of Sugar, 
and as much Claret as will make it of the Thicknefs of a 
Ragoo. When you are going to ferve it up, put in the Ve- 
nifon, and tofs it thiec or four times, and fo ferve it with the 
Juice of Lemons. 



2§S ^be Lady's Companion. 

To keep Venifon all the Ttar. 

A Haunch of Venifon being parboird, feafon it with two 
Nutmegs, a Spoonful of i^epper, and a good Qu ntity 
of Salt, mingle them all together, then pat two Spoonfuls 
of White; Winvi Vinegar, and having made the Venilon full of 
Holes, as you do when it is larded, put in at the Kales the 
Spice and Vinegar, and feafon it therewith i chen pat the 
Venifon in a Pot, with the fat Side downwards/cover it with 
two Pounds of Butter, then cloie up the Pot with coari'e Pafte, 
and bake it ; when you take it out of the Oven take away 
the Pafte, and lay a round Trencher, with a Weight on the 
Top of it, to keep it down, till it be cold, then taky off the 
Trencher, and lay the Butter flat upon the Vcniion, then cover 
it clofe with ftrong white Paper ; if your Pot be narrow at 
the Bottom it is better, for it mull be turned upon a Plate, and 
ftuck with Bay leaves, \v];en you pleafe to eat it. 

Another Way to drefs Venifon. 

IT muft be blanch'd on a Gridiron, then larded and mari- 
nated accordi-^g to the Seafon ; fpit it with Slices of Ba- 
con and Paper round, befprinkle it with your Marina'e : 
When roafted enough, it muft be ferv'd up hot either with a 
Pepper Sauce or fweet Sauce. 

To make artificial Venifon for a Pafy. 

GE T a Sirloin of Beef, or a Loin of Mutton, bone it, 
beat it with a Rolling-pin, and feafon it with Pepper 
and Salt ; then lay it twenty-four Hours in Sheep^ Blood, 
then dry it with a Cloth, and feafon it a little more, and it is 
lit to fill your Party. 

Boiled Venifon. 

HA VING a Haunch of Venifon, fait it well, and let it 
remain a Week ; then boil it, and ferve it with Cauli- 
> flowers, Cabbages, fome Turnips cut in Dice, and boird in a 
Net, and tofs'd up with Butter and Cream ; or elfe have 
ibn.e of the yellow French Turnip? cut in Dice, and boird 
like the former ; or you may add fome red Beet-roots cut in 
Dice, and butter'd in the fame Manner. Place thefe regu- 
larly, and they will afford apleafant Variety both to the Eye 
aad to the Tafte. 



Another 



The La D y's Com p ANi ON, ^59 

Another Way, 

YOUR Venifon being falted two or three Days, ilufFit 
in Holes with Beef-iewet, fwtet Herbs, and Spice, hard 
Eggs, grated Bread, and a raw Egg^ when boiPd, lay it in 
the Diih with Cauliflowers, or CaLbage, Carrots, or Tur- 
nips. 

Anothfr Way. 

WHETHER your Venifon be a Haunch, or other 
Pieces, fait it a little, and boil it ; in the n.ean Time, 
boil half a Dozen Cauliflowers in Milk and Water : When 
they are boil'd, put them in a large ~tew pan with drawn 
Butter J fet them fo as to keep them warm : Then take Half 
a Dozen Handfuls of Spinach, wafn it, and boil it in ftrong 
Broth ; then pour off the Broth, and put fome Vinegar to it, 
fome drawn Butter, and Nutmeg grated, lay Sippets in a 
Difh, lay your Spinach on them round towards the Sides of 
the Difli, lay the Veniibn in the Middle, and the Cauliflowers 
all over it, pour your drawn Butter over all : Garnifli with 
Barberries, and the Difli with your Pariley minc'd. 

If you pleafe, you may farcfe your Venifon before you boil 
it, with fweet Herbs, and Parfley, minc'd with Beef-fewet, 
and the Yolks of hard Eggs, feafon'd with Salt, Pepper, and 
Nutmeg. 

To hroil Venifon. 

CUT Haifa Haunch of fat Venifon into Slices, about 
Half an Inch thick, fait them, and broil them over a 
brifk Fire ; when they are pretty well foak'd, bread them, 
and ferve them up in Gravy. 

You may broil a Chine raw the fame Way, or a whole 
Haunch or Side ; or you may firft boil it in Water and Salt, 
then broil it, and drudge it with Bread, and ferve it up with 
Gravy, Vinegar, and Pepper. 

To make Venifon Semey. 

AFTER having boil'd your Venifon, take it up, and 
having alfo made a fweet Pafte of a brown Loaf, 
grated fine, a Pint of White Wine, two Pounds of Sugar, and 
and an Orange-peel minc'd fmall, feafon it with Salt and Nut- 
meg ; and having m.ix'd all well together with your Hand, 
wrnp your Venifon up in it, fet it into the Oven for about an 
Hour, and when it is bak'd, ferve it up with Rhe7i'}Jh or 
White Wine, boil'd up v/ith Sugar and Spice, and fcrape Su- 
gar over it 



26q ^be Ladv's Companion, 

To foufe Venilon. 

BOIL your Venifon in Water, Beer, and Vinegar, fkim 
it, put in Fennel, Rofemary-tops, Savoury, Thyme, 
and Bay-leaves ; then put in your Venifon, parboil it, then 
prefs it, and feaibn it with Salt, Pepper, and Nutmeg. 

To Jh^do Venifon. 

WHEN your Venifon is cut into Slices, put it into a 
Stew pan, with a little Claret, a Sprig or two of 
Rofemary, Haifa Dozen Cloves, a little Vinegar, Sugar, and 
grated Br. ad ; Vvhen thefe have ftew'd fome tim.e, grate in 
iome Nutmeg, and ferve it up. 

Venifon may be harrico'd after the fame Manner as Mut- 
ton, for which, fee Page icS of this Vol, 

Venifon in Blood. 

YOUR Shoulder, Keck, or Breail, muft be bon'd, and 
laid in Blood, feafon'd with Winter-favoury, fwecc 
IViarjoram, and Thyme, having a little Sewet in it chopp'd 
fmall, and ftirr'd on the Fire to be thick ; then roil up your 
Neck or Brealt with fome of the fet Blood, and fweet Herbs, 
and roaft, or Hove it gently in good Broth and Gravy, with 
Shalots, and Liaret, and fo ferve away hot. 

To drefs Venifon a la Rojr.le in Blood. 

SPIT your Venifon, lay it down to the Fire till it is Half 
roafted j then take it up, and ftew it, and make for it a 
Ragoo of Cucumbers, Sweeiibreads, and Afparagus. Gai- 
nifn with Petits and crifpt Parfley, and ferve it up. 

To reconter Venifon 'vohen it pinks. 

TAKE as much cold Water in a Tub as will cover it 
a Handful over, and put in a good deal of Salt, and 
let it lie three or four Hours ; then take your Venifon out, 
and let it lie as long as before in hot Water and Salt ; then 
have a Cruft in readinefs, and take it out, and dry it very 
well, and feafon it with Pepper and Salt pretty high, and put 
it in your Pafty. Do not ufe the Bones of your Venifon for 
Gravy, but get frelli Beef, or other Bones, 



Venifon 



'fhs L A D y'ii Companion. 261 

Venlfon in A-vet* 

GE T yonr Veaifon cut into Pieces tlie Bignefs of a 
Shoulder of a Hare, lard them with thick Bacon, Tea- 
fon'd with Salt and Pepper ; then put them in a Stew-pau 
with Broth, White Wine, a Bunch of fweet Herbs, Salt, Pep- 
per, Nutmeg, Bay-leaves, and green Lemon-flices ; the 
Whole being ftew'd, thicken your Sauce with Cullis, put in 
a Daih of Vinegar, and ferve it up for a f.rfl Courfe. 

To make a petty Dijh of a Breajl of Venlfon. 

TA K E Half a Pound of Butter, flour your Venifon, 
and fry it of a fine Brown on both Sides ; then take it 
up, and keep it hrt cover'd in the Difh : Take fome Flour, 
and ftir it into the Butter till it is quite thick and brown, (but 
take care it don't burn) llir in Haifa Koand of Lunip-fngar 
beat fine, and pour in as much B.ed Wine as will make itof 
the Thicknefs of a Ragoo; fqueeze in the Juice of a Lemon, 
give it a Boil up, and pour it over the \ enifon. Don't gar- 
nifli }oar Dilh, but fend it to Table. 

_ To drefs Tripe. 

'_T A V I N G made a Sauce with beaten Butter, Gravv, 

JX Pepper, Mallard, and Vinegar, rub the Difli with'a 

Clove of Garlick ; and after your Tripe is fry'd put it in, 

and' run the Sauce over it, with a little bruifed Garlick 

amongft it, and fprinkle a little Vinegar on the Tripe. 

To rocjl Tripe. 

C^ U T your Tripe in two fquare Piece?, fomewhat long, 
/ having a Force-iveat, made of Crumbs of Bread, Pep- 
per, Salt, Nutmeg, fweet Herbs, and the Yolks of Eggs, 
fpread it upon one Piece of your Tripe on the fat Side, and 
lay the other Piece upon that, the fat Side upon the Force- 
meat ; then roll them both up together tight, and tying your 
Roll on the Spit, flour it, and bafre it with Butter, and the 
Liquor that drops from it. Serve it with melted Butter, and 
garnifti with flic'd Orange and Rafpings. 

Double Tripes, the Poliih //^v. 

TAKE fome Tripes, let them be well boiPd, and very 
white and clean, put in a Stew-pan a Lrmp of good 
Butter, green Onions, and Parfiey cut fmail, Pepper, ShIc, 

fweet 



262 The La d y*s Companion. 

fweet Herbs, and fine Spice ; put in your T ipes in Pieces, 
the Eignefs of a Hand, put then-; ovu a btovi, and let .hem 
Hew fofdy to have a TaiLe ; then ftrew them with Cruri.bs of 
Bread, broil them on both Sides, let the.ii have a good Co- 
lour, di(h them up, put brown nielted Butter over tnem, with 
Lemon-juice, and I'erve it up hot. 

\ Other Double Tripes, the Polifh Way^ luith Saffron and Rice. 

TAKE Tripes that are well cleaned, ard very white, let 
them be blanch d, and put them i..to a btew-pan lea- 
fon'd with Salt, a Bui.ch ci fweet Herbs, and iomc Onions, 
moiften them %\i^h Water, and let them a toiling; take 
a large Gut well cleaned and wafh'd, take Rice well pick'd, 
the ^iuantity you think fit, und wafh it ; being wafh d, leafon 
it with a iiLtle Salt, beaten Fep per, Parfley-roots cut into 
fmali iquare Pieces, Pariley cut fmall, and a little pounded 
IViace, mix all together, and fluff therewith yout Gut; but 
let the fat Side be alway inmoft, and bind it up with Pack- 
thread on both Ends : When your Tripes are half boiPd, put 
them a iiewing with it : They commonly boil thefe Tripes 
a Day before: When you make Ufe of them, take Half a 
Dozen of Onions, cut them into Slices, put them into a Stew- 
pan with Water over the Fire ; feafon them with a little Pep- 
per and Salt, let them boil till they are very foft, and pafs 
them through a Sieve, like a Cullis ; this done, keep them 
hot, take your Tripes, and cut them into Slices, the Length 
of a Finger, and the Breadth the fame ; put them in a Stew- 
pan with a Lum.p of good Butter, and give them fomeToffes 
upon the Fire ; then moiilen them with a little Broth, feafon 
it with a little Salt, and a Bunch of fweet Herbs ; put in your 
Culiis of Onions, and two Pieces of your Guts of Beef lluiFed 
with Rice, each Piece being of the Length from five to fix 
Inches, and let them ftew foftly a-while. Take a little 
pounded Saffron, foak'din a little Broth ; let your Tripes be 
of a good Tafte, put in it your Saffron, till you fee it be of a 
fine Colour, difh them, and ferve them up. 

To fry Tripe. 

AFTER having cut your Tripe into fmall Pieces, three 
or four Fingers long, dip them in the Yolk of an Egg, 
with fome fine Crumbs ot Bread ; fry them of a brown Co- 
lour ; when done, lay them in a Difh to drain ; have ready an- 
other Difh to fend them to Table, and ferve them with Butter 
alone in one Bafon j and Butter with Multard in another. 

7i 



Tl?^ L A D y's Co MP A N I O N. 26 j 

'To boil Tripe. 

CUT yoar Trif.e as before; fet on feme Water in a 
fecew pan, aaa put to it two or three Onions cut fmall, 
a . - lome SaiC ; put in the Tripe ioon after it boils, and let it 
bcii near a (garter of an Hour. It is generally fent to 
Table with the i^iquor in the Difh, .ogether with the Onions ; 
foine throw a Lunch of iwxet Herbs into the Water, and a 
Piece of Lemon -peei. Send it to Tabie wick Buuter, Iffc. as 
witii tae fry'd Tripe. 

To make Cotks-combs cf Tripe. 

TAKE lean Tripe, and pare away the fiefhy Part, 
leaving only the horny Fart about che'i hickneis cf a 
Cock\-comb i then with a j'^gv-ing-iron cut Pieces out of it 
in tne Shape of Cocks com bb. 

Sauces for Butchers Meat. 

Sauce /or h'.Ld Mutton. 

TA K E a Piece of Liver as big as a Pigeon^s Egg, and 
boil It tender, with Haifa Handful of Parfley, ^nd a 
few Sprigs of Pot-thyme, with the Yoiks of three or four 
Eggs boiPd hard, bray them with a Spoon till they are dif- 
foiv'd ; then add one Anchovy waih'd and ftripp'd from the 
Bone, Thyme, beaten Pepper, and grated Nutmeg, with a 
little Salt ; put all thefe toge-rher in a Sauce-pan, with aGlafs 
of White Wine, and the Gravy that has drain'd from your 
Leg of Mutton after it is taken out of the Pot, or a Quarter 
of a Pint of the Liquor the Mutton is boiPd in : Mix it all 
together, and give it a Boil, then beat it up with three Ounces 
of Butter : You may add a Tci-fpoontul of Vinegar, which 
takes off a Sweetneis it is apt to have ; make the fame thick, 
or it will be too thin when the Mutton is cut. 

Tojlenfj Cucumbers for Sauce, fee Pages 69, 70, of Vol. IT, 

Another Sauce for boiled Mutton. 

TAKE two Spoonfuls of the Liquor the Mutton is 
boil'd in, two Spoonfuls of Vinegar, two or three Sha- 
lots cut fine, with a little Salt, put it into a Sauce-pan, with a 
Piece of Butter as big as a Walnut rolPd in flour; ftir it to- 
gether, and give it a Boil, then ferve it with your Mutton. 

Sauce 



2 6^ The Lady 's Companion. 

Sauce in Ravjgotte, 

YOU muft take Terragon, Pimpernel, Mint, Parfley, 
green Onions, a litcle of each, blanch the Whole in 
boiling Water, then put it into cold Water ; take it out 
again, and fqueeze it, and cut it very fmall, then put it in a 
Stew-pan w th a Rocambole bruis'd, a little Gravy, a little 
Cullis, and the Juice of a Lemon, Salt, beaten Pepper, an 
Anchovy cut fmall, and a little Oil ; put all this a Moment 
over the Fire, and let it be well relilh'd. This kind of Sauce 
may be uied with all Sorts of roalled Pvleat, putting it in a 
Saucer. 

Another Wa\\ 
'^l"^ A K E the fame Sort of Herbs prefcribM in the 
X Ravigotte above, waih them well, cut them fmall, and 
pound them, putting into the Mortar a little Gravy, a Couple 
of Rocamboles, a little Pepper, and a little Cullis; put all 
together in a Stew-pan, heat it, and ftrain it off; being llrain'd 
otf, add to it a Spoonful of Oil, keep it warm, and ferve it up 
in a Saucer with roail Meat j you may alfo ufe it with 
Chickens. 

Tt? wake a Sauce calLd Povirade. 

PU T feme Vinegar into a Sauce-pan, with a little A'cal- 
gravy, one whole i eek, an Onion cut in Slices, and two 
or three Slices of Lemon ; fcafon it with Pepper and Salt, and 
when it is boiPd, ftrain it thro' a Sieve, pour it into a China 
Bafon, and ferve it hot with the feveral Difhes diredled in the 
Receipts. 

Saure for BoiPd-Beef, after the P.uflian Manner. 

SCRAPE a good Quantity of Horfe-radiih grofly, tie it 
in a Cloth, and boil it with your Beef, or by itfelf in 
Butter : When enough, ferve it in the Butter it was boiPd 
in, or Vinegar, along with the '^^^'i. 
hJincea Sauce. 

CU T Onions, Mufhrooms, and Truffles, if you have 
any, v^ery fmall, with Capers, and Anchovies, and keep 
them feparatel'y ; put into a Stew-pan a litcle Butter with 
yoar Onions ; put your Stew-pan over a briCc Fire ; give it 
two or three ToiTes ; then put in your Mulhrooms and Truf- 
fles, ilrewing over them a Dull of Flour, and moiften them 
with good Gravy, then put in it your Capers and Anchovies, 
widi a Glais of White Wine ; thicken your Sauce with a 
Spoonful of Cullis. Let it be of a good Talk, and you may 
ufe it with all Didies with a minc'd Sauce. 

Another 



ne L A D y's Companion!' ^^^ 

Another Way. 

TAKE fome green Onions, Capers, Anchovies, and 
Parlley, cut fmall, each by itlelf upon a Plate, with a 
Clove of Garlick, and a Clove of bhalot ; put all this into a 
Stew-pan together, with a few fweet Herbs, two Spoonfuls 
of Oil, as much of good Mullard, the Juice of a Lemon, with 
a little Cuilis : Stir all well together, and you may ufe it vvitb 
£.11 Sorts of Fowls, and broiPd Meat; and with roafied Meat, 
in a Saucer. 

A thick Sauce, 'vclth Pepper, 

PUT into a Stew pan Slices of Onion, Thyme, fweet 
Bafil, a Bay-leaf, two or three Cloves of Garlick, a 
T.adlcful of Gravy, and as much Cuilis, fome Slices of Le- 
mon, with a Glafs of Vinegary put it over a Stove, let it be 
of a good Taile, and take oif the Fat ; llrain it off. and ferve 
it up in a Saucer Vvith roail:ed Meat ; .the fame Sauce may be 
ufed with all Sorts of Meal that requires a thick Pepper 
Sauce, and may alfo be made without Cuilis. 

Another Sauce, itvV/' Pepter, 

PU T \'inegar in a Stew-pan, v/ith a little ^^eal Gravy, 
green Onions whole, an Onion cut in Slices, with a Slice 
of Lemon, feafon'd with Pepper and Salt ; after a Boil or two, 
taile ic, ilrain it on, pour it into a Saucer, and ferve it up hot. 

Caper Sauce, 

PU T in a Stew-pan fome Cuilis of Mam, with Capers, to 
which give three or four Chops with a Knife ; feafon it 
With Pepper and Salt ; let it be relifaing, and {^n'Q it up hot. 

Sauce ^'ith Trvfies. 
^""|~^AKE TrufKes, pare, walh them in Water, and cut 
X them very fmall ; this done, put them in a Stew-pan, 
With a thin Cullic of Veal and Ham; feafon it with Salt and 
Pepper ; let it flew foftly ; let it be of a good Tafle, and 
ferve it up hot. 

Onion Sauce. 

TAKE a Stew-pan, put into it fome Veal Gravy, with 
a Couple of Onions cut in Slices; feafon with Pepper 
and Salt, let it Hew foftly, then flrain it off; put it in a Saucer, 
and ferve it up hot. 



Vol. L 



266 Tbe Lady's Companion-. 

Green Onion Sauce. 

YO U muft put into your Stew-pan green Onions, pared 
and cut fmall, with a little melted Bacon, feafon'd with 
a little Pepper and Salt; moiften it with Gravy, and let it 
ftew a Moment ; thicken your Sauce with Cullis of Veal and 
Ham ; let your Sauce be of a iharp Tafte and good Relilh, 
and ferve it up hot. 

Sauce ivith frcjh Mujhrooms. 

TAKE Mufhrooms, pare and mince them with a little 
green Onion and Parfley ; put in a Stew-pan a little 
melted Bacon, and having given it four or five Toffes, moiflen 
it with Gravy ; let it flew Ibftly over a flow Fire, fkim the 
Fat well off, and thicken your Sauce with Cullis of Veal and 
Ham ; let it be relilhing, and ferve up hot. 

Carriers Sauce. 

TAKE green Onions, pare and cut them very fmall, 
put them in a Sauce-boat with Pepper, Salt, and Wa- 
ter ; ferre it up cold. This is Sauce for roaft Mutton. 

^ke fame nvith Oil. 

WE take a few green Onions and Parfley chopped fmall. 
and put them in a Saucer with Oil, Pepper, and Salt : 
you may add to it a little Vinegar, and ferve it up cold. 

Sauce-Robart. 

TAKE Onions, cut them into Dice, put them into : 
Stew pan with a little Butter, and keep them flirring 
being half brown, drain off the Fat, ilrewing lome Flour ove 
them ; moiften it with Gravy, and let it Hew foftly over 
flow Fire ; feafon it with Pepper and Salt, then thicken : 
with Veal and Ham CuUis, putting in a little Muftard; mak 
it relifhing, and ufe it upon Occafion. 

Ham Sauce. 

BE A T flat three or four Slices of Ham, put them a fwea 
ing over a Stove ; being clammy, ftrew over them a litt! 
Flour, and Jieep them ftirring ; moiften them with Grav; 
and feafon them with Pepper, nnd a Bunch of fweet Herbs 
let it ftew gently ; if it is not thick enough, add to it a litt 
CuUis of Veal and Ham ; let it be ot a high Relifh ; lira: 
it off, and ufe it for all Sorts of white Meat reafted. 

Gre« 



C 



*ihe Lady's Companion; 267 

Green Sauce. 

AFTER having got the Grafs of Wheat, or of other 
Grains, pound it in a Mortar with a Cruft of Bread j 
take out the Grals thus pounded, put it in a Sieve, and fea- 
fon it with Pepper and Salt ; moiilen it a little with Veal- 
gravy and Vinegar, then ftrain it, and ferve it up cold with 
Lamb or Fowl. 

Sauce fjr a Shoulder of Mutton. 

WHEN the Meat is three Parts roalled, put a Plate 
under it with a little Spring Water, and two or three 
Spoonfuls of Claret, foire O.uon llic'd, or Shalot, a little 
grated Nutmeg, one Anchovy wafn'd and minc'd, and a little 
l>it of Butter ; let your Meat drop into it, and when you take 
it up, run the Sauce through a Sieve, and put it under the 
Mutton ; then cut the Inlide of the Shoulder acrofs feveral 
Ways, and ftrew on fome fry'd Crumbs of Bread, and pour 
a little Elder, or other Vinegar, into your Sauce. 

Sauce for Steaks. 

TA KE a Glafs of Ale, two Anchovies, a little Tliym^, 
Savoury, Parfley, an Onion, and fome Nutmeg, ihred 
all thefe together, adding a little Lemon-peel j when your 
Steaks are ready, pour the Liquor from them, then put your 
Ale and the other Things into the Pan, with a Piece of But- 
ter roird in Flour, and when hot, llrain them thro' a Sieve 
over your Steaks. 

Another Way. 

FR Y your Steaks almoft enough, then pour off the Li- 
quor they were fry'd in, 3nd put them into the Pan 
again, then pour on them boiling Water ; ftir them about a 
little, then put in a l^iece of B. tter roll d in Elour, and when 
melted, ferve the Steaks up with the Sauce over them. 

Stuffirg for a Calf's Heart. 

CUT off the deaf Ears, and all the Strings, then take a 
little fat Bacon, the Fat of three Oyftcrs, Parlley, 
rhyme, and Winter -fa voury, a little Onion, and Lemon- 
3ee'l, Salt, Pepper, Nutmeg, and grated Bread, mix all thefe 
vith Butter, and wet them with an E^^g or two. The fame 
stuffing docs for Hare or Veal. For "Hare you muft add 

N 2 \ks. 



26S Kv Lad y's Co M p A N ION. 

the Liver, t\vOxA.nchovIes, and a fmall Goldi^n Pippen if voa 
like it. 

Stuffing for Veal. 

A Little Beef fewet, a little fat Bacon, the Yolk of an 
hard Egg, a little lean Veal or Mutton fcraped, fome 
Rafpings of Bread, a little Thyme, Parfley, and green Onions, 
Pepper, Salt, and Nutmeg, a little Bit of fweet Bafil, and a 
little Cream. 

Dutch Sauce for Meat cr Filh. 

MELT your Butter with Water and Vinegar, and 
thicken it with the Yolks of a Couple of Eggs ; put 
to it Juice of Lemon, and run it through a Sieve. 

To Jiuff a Sirloin or Rump of Beef. 

TAKE Thyme, V/inter-favoury, Parfley, and Penny- - 
royal, to Anchovies, and a little \ eal, and fome 
grated Bread, and Half a Pound of Beef-fewet, with fome 
Pepper, Salt, and Half a Nutmeg grated, a little Lemon-peel 
finely ihred; mince thefe very fmall, and then roll it up in 
the Yolks of two Eggs, and with this fluff your Beef, which 
muilfirft be half roalted ; then put it to the Fire again, and 
put a clean Diih in the Dripping-pan, and bafbe it with Half 
a Pint of Claret, and as much Gravy ; then take up the Diih, 
and be furc to fkim off all the Fat, then put into this Liquor 
fom.e of the aforefaid Herbs, with two Anchovies waih'd and 
minc'd, and a Quarter of a Pound of Butter, the Juice of 
Haifa Lemon, fome grated Nutmeg, and let it have one Boil 
up upon a Chafing-dilh, keeping it ftirring; then thicken it 
up with the Yolks of four Eggs, and take care it does not 
curdle ; fo ferve it up hot. 

Sauce y^r roa/ied Tongues or Venifon. 

TA K E a French Roll, and boil it in a Gill of Water, 
with a Piece of Cinnamon ; fweeten it very well, and 
add to it Half a Pint of Claret; let it boil till it is pretty thick, 
then run it through a Sieve; you mull cut off the Cruft ol 
your Roll, and fiice the reft. 

Venifon Sauce. 

BOIL Claret, grated Bread, whole Cinnamon, Ginger 
Mace, Vinegar and Sugar, up thick. 



the L A D y's Companion." 269 

Another Sauce far Venifon. 

TA KE Claret, Water, and Vinegar, of each a Glaf^, 
an Onion ftuck with Cloves, and fome Anchovies ; 
put m Salt, Pepper, and Cloves, of each one Spoonful : Boil 
all thefe together ; tiien itrain the Liquor through a Sieve, 
and ferve it in the Difh. 

/yfr/Yw/ Sauces /iir Venifon. 

YO U may t.^ice either of thefe Sauces, <viz. Currant- 
jelly warr/.d, or ?Iaif a Pint of Red Wine, with a Quar- 
ter of a Pound of Sugar, fimmer it over a clear Fire for five 
or fix Minutes , or Half a Pint of Vinegar, and a Quarter of 
a Pound of Sugar, ninmcr'd till it is a Syrup. 

Sauce for a Shoulder of Veal. 

WHEN the Veul is roaded, cut fome Pieces of Flefh 
oft the Infide, and then beat the Yoiks of eight Egg , 
with rather more than a Quarter of a Pint of Wliite Wine, 
and a little fmall Broth, or Water, with the Gravy of the 
Veal, fome Thyme and Nutmeg, and Half a Clove of Gar- 
lick bruis'd; put the Pieces of Veal into this Liquor, and tois 
it up all with a Piece of Butter and Flour, and pour it under 
the Veal ; a little Anchovy, or Oyiler-liquor, adds to it very 
much 'y fqueeze Lemon to your Talle. 

Sauce for Veal Cutlets. 

FR Y your Veal, and when fry'd take it out, and put in a 
li tie Water, an Anchovy, a few fweet Plerbs, a little 
Onion, Nutmeg, a little Lemon-peel fhred fmall, and a little 
Wine or Ale, then thicken it with a Bit of Butter rolPd in 
Flour, with fome Cockles and Capers, and then pour it over 
the Cutlets. 

Sauce far any roajled Meat, 

TAKE an Anchovy, and wafn it very clean, and put 
to it a Glafs of Red Wine, a little ftrong Broth or 
Gravy, fome Nutmeg, one Shalot flic'd, and the Juice of n 
Sennit Orange ; ftew thefe together a little, and pour it to 
the Gravy that runs from your Meat. 



N 3 Hot 



270 The Lady*s Compan ion. 

Hot Sauce in Ramolade. 

PU T into a Stew-pan fome Onions cut in Slices, witk 
one or two Spoonfuls of Oil ; fet this a Moment over 
the Fire, and put into it fome Gravy and Cullis, a Glafs of 
Wine, two or three Cloves of Garlick, Half a Lemon cut 
into Slices, a little fv/eet Herbs, Cloves, Capers cut fmall, 
and Parfley : Let it be of a good Talle ; put into it a fmall 
Spoonful of Muftard, and flrain it off; make ufe of thi« 
Sauce with all Difhes with hot Ramolade. 

Sauce ov//^ Mutton Gravy and Shahts, 

TAKE your Shalots, pare them, cut them very fmall, 
put them in a Difh with Pepper and Salt, and Mut- 
ton-gravy, or Veal-gravy ; you may ufe this Sauce for Legs 
of Mutton, or with Fowls. 

Anchovy Sauce. 

TAKE two or three Anchovies, waih them well, take 
out the Bones, cut them fmall, and put them in a Stew- 
pan, with a thin Cullis of Veal and Ham, feafon'd with Pep- 
per and Salt ; you may add a little Vinegar if you like it, let 
ir be hot and relilhing ; you may ufe this Sauce witli roafled 
Meat. 

J general Sauce. 

MI N C E a little Lemon-peel very fmall, a little Nut- 
meg, beaten Mace, and Shalot ; flew them in a little 
White Wine and Gravy, fo m.elt your Butter therein ; if it 
be for Hafhes of Mutton or Fifh, add Anchovies, a little of 
the Liquor of flew'd Oyflers, and Lemon-peel. 

7o tnuke Muflard. 

HA VING made Choice of good Seed, pick and wafh 
it in cold Water j it mull alfo be drain'd, and rubb'd 
dry in a clean Cloth ; then pound it fine in a Mortar, with 
ilrong Wine Vinegar j flrain it, and keep it clofe cover'd : 
Othcrwife, your Seed may be ground in a Muftard-sjuern, or 
in a Bowl with a Cannon- bullet. 

Muflard Balls. 

GRIND the Seed very fine, then make a Pafle with 
Honey, and a little Canary ; make it int« Balls, and 
fet them to dry in the Sun, or a gentle Oven ; and keep them 
for Ufe. 

When 



^Ti^tf L ady's CoMP A Ni ON. 271 

When you would ufe it, fhave rome of it very thin, and pat 
to k Vinegar, and a little Salt. 

Muftard in Cakes. 

YO U muft get four Ounces of Seamy, an Ounce of Cin- 
namon, and beat them with Vinegar and Honey very 
fine in a Mortar, make it into Pafte, and then into little 
Cakes ; dry them in an Oven, or in the Sun ; when you 
would ufe them, diilolve them in Vmegar, Verjuice, or 
Wine. 

Another Sort of Muilard, 

DR.Y fome Horle-radilh Roots in an Oven very dr}% 
then beat the.n to Powder, and fift it. and when you 
would ufe any, v/et it with Wine Vinegar, and it is by fom^ 
efleem'd better than the other Sort. 

^he hefi Way to heat up Butter, /?r Spinach, Green Peafe, or 
Sauce yir Fifh. 

TAKE two or three Spoonfuls of Water, and put it 
into a Pipkin or Sauce-pan ; there mull be no more 
than what will jull cover the Bottom of the VefTel ; let this 
boil by itfelf ; as foon as it does fo, flip in Half a Pound of 
Butter ; when it is melted, remove your Pipkin from the 
Fire, and holding it up by the Handle, fhake it round 
flrongly, for a good while, and the Butter will come to be 
fo thick, that you may alnioll cut it with a Knife. I: will 
ever after be thick, and never grow oily, though it be cold 
and heated again twe;ty Times 

Having put this Butter to boiPd Peafe in a Difh, cover it 
with another ; then fhake them very flrongly, and a gocd 
while together : This is by far the beft Method that can be 
ufed to butter Peafe, without putting in (as is commonly done) 
Butter, to melt in the Middle of them, for that will turn to 
Oil if you heat them again ; whereas this Sort will never 
change. Therefore it is mofl expedient to make ufe of fuch 
thicken'd Butter upon all Occafions ; when it is neceflary you 
may put in the Juice of Lemon, Orange, Vinegar, or Ver- 
juice. 

To hum Butter yjr any Sauce. 

SE T the Butter over the Fire in a Stew-pan, and let it 
boil till it is as brown as you like it ; then (hake in 
Flour, flir it all the while till it is thick ; fo ufe it with any 
Sauce that is too thin. 

N 4 Anothtr 



272 ' The L A D y's C M p A n ion. 

Another Way. 

SH A K E foiTie Flour upon two or three Ounces of But- 
ter, put it into a hot Stew-pan that it may hifs ; let it 
uoil, and do not ftir it, when it turns brown put in the Liquor 
you intend to thicken^ and keep it quick Hirring; boil it well, 
or it will talle raw. 

To clarify Butter. 
I^T AV IN G melted the Butter in a glaz'd earthen Veffel 
_|_ J, v\ith a very flow Fire, put 'v^/ater to it, working them 
v,ell together, and when it is cold take away the Curds and 
Whey at Bottom ; do this the fecond Time, and the third 
Time ; if you pleafe, you may add Damaf-c-rofe Water, al- 
ways working them well together; the Butter, thus purify 'd, 
will be as fweet as any Marrow, and will keep a long Time. 

To dranjj Butter. 

PU T Half a Pint of ftrong Broth into a Pipkin, break 
into it two Pounds of Butter ; then fet it over the Fire, 
and keep it ftirring with a Ladle j then break in two or three 
Pounds more, as you have Occafion, and add Liquor propor- 
tionable, ilir it continually till it be all diljolv'd, and that it 
looks v.hite : If it turn3 yellow, it is curdled, and you will 
hardly recover it. 

To reco'ver Butter I'jhen it is turned to Oil. 

U T a Ladleful of llrong Broth into a Pipkin, break 
Half a Pound of Butter into it ; when you have drawn 
it white, put your oily Butter to it, pouring it in leifurely, 
and ftirnng it at the fame Time, but do not overcharge your 
other Butter with that which is oily. 

Another Way . 

WHEN you have no other Butter but what is turned 
oily in melting, fet it in fome cool Place to fettle ; 
then pour out the moft oily Part, leaving the Whey and Dregs 
behind \ then put a little Broth to the Dregs, and fet them 
on the Fire ; ladle it v/ell, till it becomes drawn Butter in a 
Body ; then take it off, and keep it ftirring : In the mean 
Time pour oit the oily Butter very foftly, then fet it on the 
Fire again, ilirring it till it becon.es Itrong, thick, and white. 



To 



The La D y's CoMPAN ION. 273 

To preferve Meat 'without Salt. 

WE T a Napkin in White Wine Vinegar, wring it out, 
and wrap the Meat in it. It will keep a Fortnight, 
or loneer, ifi hot Weather. 



T 



CHAP. IV. 
Of P O U L T R r. 

'lo rofifl a Turky. 

HE beft Way to roaft a Turky is, to loofen the vSkin 
on the Breall of the Turky, and fill it with Force- 
meat made thus : Take a Quarter of a Poand of Becf-fewet, 
as many Crumbs of Bread, a little Lemon-peel, an Anchovy, 
fome Nutmeg, Pepper, Parfiey, and a little Thyme ; chop 
and beat them all well together, mix them with the Yolk of 
an Egg, and ftufF up the Bread • 'when you have no Sewet, 
Butter will do : Or, you may make your Force-meat thus : 
Spread Bread and Butter thin, and grate fome Nutmeg over 
it ; when you have enough, roll it up, and ftuff the Breaft of 
the Turky ; then roail it of a fine brov/n, but be fare to pin 
fome white Paper on the Breaft till it is near enough. You 
muil have good Gravy in the Dilb, and Bread-fauce made 
thus : Take a good Piece of Crumb, put it into a Pint of 
Water, with a Blade or two of Mace, two or three Cloves, 
and feme whole Pepper ; boil it up five or fix Times ; then 
with a Spoon take out the Spice, and pour off the Water, 
(you may boil an Onion in it if you pleafe) then beat up the 
Bread with a good Piece of Butter and a little Salt ; or 
Onion-fauce made thus , Take fome Onions, peel them, and 
cut them into thiu Slices, and boil them Half an Hour in 
Milk and Water, then drain them, and beat them up v^ith a 
large Piece of Butter, fliake in a little Flour, and ftir it ail to- 
gether v.'ith a little Cream, if you have it, (or Milk will do) 
put the Sauce into Boats, and garnlfh with Lemon. 

Another Way to make Sauce : Take Llaif a Pint of Oy- 
Hers, lirain the Liquor, and put the Oyfiers with the Licucr 
into a Sauce-pan, wiih a Blade or two of Mace ; let them juH 
plui^.p ; then pour in a Glafs of White Wine ; let it boil cnce» 
and chicken it with a Piece of Butter roli'd in Flour -, ferre 
this up In a Bafoii b/ itfeif, with good Gravy in the, Dilh ; foi- 
N 5 every 



^74 ^^^ L A D Y*s Companion, 

eyery-body don't love Oyfter-lauce. This makes a pretty 
Side-diih for Supper, or a Corner-difhof a Table for Dinner. 
If you chafe it in the Difh, add Haifa Pint of Gravy to it, 
and boil it up together. This Sauce is good either with 
boil'd or roafted Turkies or Fowls ; but you may leave the 
Gravy out, adding as much Batter as will do for Sauce, and 
garniihing with Lemon. 

A youTtg Turky ^ith Oyfiers, 

PICK your Turky, draw it, and finge it neatly ; cut the 
Liver of it into Bits, and put it into a Stew-pan, toge- 
gether with a Dozen Oyfters and a Bit of Butter, feafon'd 
with Salt, Pepper, fweet Herbs, All-fpice, Mufhrooms, Parf- 
Ity^ and Chibbol ; let it be a Moment over the Fire, then- 
mince the Whole, and llufF your Turky with them, and let 
it be blanch'd a little ; fpit it, and tie Bards of Bacon, and 
Paper over it ; mean while have a Ragoo ready for your 
Turky ; make it thus : Take three Dozen of Oyfters, and 
blanch them in boiling Water, drain them, take off the 
Beard, then put in your Stew-pan fome Effence of Ham, and 
let it a boiling ; fkim oiFthe Fat, tafte it, and put this, with 
your Oyfters, into another Pan. When your Turky is roafted, 
diih it up, and put your Ragoo over it, with the Juice of a 
Lemon ; let it be reliftiing, and ferve it up hot for a firft 
Courfe. 

To drefs a Turky forced nvtt^ Herbs. 

LOOSEN the Skin on the Breaft of the Turky, and 
ftuff it with a Farce of raw Bacon, moft Sorts of fweet 
Herbs, Patiley, and Chibbol, chopped fmall, pounded in a 
Mortar, and well feafon'd ; alfo put fome of this Farce into 
the Body, and roaft it ; when it is enough, dilh it ; pour on a 
good Ragoo of all Sorts of Garnitures, and ferve it up to 
Table hot. 

After the fame Manner you Hiay drefs Pullets, Pigeons, 
and other Sorts of Fowls. 

A young Turky ivith Oyjiers, after the Dutch Fafioion. 

TA K E a young Turky order'd as that above, put it to 
roaft ; make a Ragoo with Oyfters as followeth : 
Blanch as many Oyfters as you pleafe, take off the Beards j 
then put Butter in a Stew-pan, with about half a Spoonful of 
fine Flour, and a Drop of Gravy ; feafon the Whole with 
Salt, Pepper, Nutmeg, and a little Vinegar ; as foon as your 
Sauce is thicken'd, put in your Oyfters, and let it be relilhing. 

Whea 



The Lady's Companion. 275 

When your Turky is roafted, dilh it up with your Ragoo 
over it ; ferve it up hot. 

Toung Turky roajled ivith Shalots. 

OPv D E R your Turky as thofe before, except only, that 
you put a tew Shalots into the Forc'd-meat. Your 
Turky being roailed, make a Sauce thus : Warm fome Sha- 
lots, cut iinall, in a Stew-pan, with Gravy and Cuilis, fome 
Juice of Lemon, and pounded Pepper, and fervc up your 
Turky hot, pouring this Sauce over it. 

A youvg Turky roajled ^vith MaTigoes. 

TAKE your Turky, and order it as before, the Ragoo 
only making the Difference. Take fome Mangoes, 
the foftell you can get ; take off the Flefh by thin and fmall 
Slices ; take out the Infide, and blanch them in boiling Wa- 
ter; then put them in frefh Water ; put them in a Stew-pan 
with fome EfTence and Gravy, and let them have a BoiL 
When your Turky is ready, dilh it up with your Mangoes 
over it, and ferve it up for a firft Courfe. 

Eniry of Turky Wings. 

HAVING the Wings of Turkies, fcald them ; being 
well pick'd and fcalded, blancli them ; when blanch'd, 
cut oiT the imall End, and break the Bone with a Knife in 
the Middle of the Wing : Put them in a Srew-pan, put in it 
fome Champignons, a Bit of Butter, a Bunch r.iade of Parf- 
ley, green Onions, and a Branch of fweet Bafil, with three 
Cloves i the Bunch being ty'd together, put it, with your 
Wings, over the Fire, and tofs them up ; now and then ftrew 
aDuft of Flour over them, and moiften them with Broth or 
Water : Being moillen'd, feafon them with a little Salt and 
Pepper, and let them boil very foftly ; being boii'd, make a 
thick Sauce v/ith five Yolks of Eggs, and beat them up with 
Cream or Milk ; put in it a little Nutmeg, a Couple of Sha- 
lots, cut very fmaii : Let your Frixiafey be of a good Tafte, 
and thicken it ; being thicken'd, put in a little Pariley cut 
fmall, with a little L-mon-juice: Ic being diih'd, ferve it up 
for Entry, or Ho'^s d'O/^u^vres. 

You may make your Fricafey with a brown Sauce, in 
moiilening it with Gra\7 i and being doae, thicken it with 
Cullis. 



Koapd 



tyS The Lady's Companion. 

Roa/led young Turkies <with Spanifh Car doom. 

GE T young Turkies, pick and craw them, then lay 
the Liver on the Drelier, with Icraped Eaccn, fome 
rarlley,,Chibbol,Muriirooms, Salt, Pepper, fweet Herbs, and 
£ne Spice ; and being minc'd, put it in the Bellies of your 
Turkies, then blanch them with a Bit of Butter, ibme Parfiey 
and Chibbols ; when blanch'd, put them on the Spit, with 
Slices of Bacon and Paper round them ; keep your Cardoons 
ready, let them be very white, and cut half a Finger's Length, 
and put them in a Stew-pan, with Kalf a Ladleful of Veal 
Gravy, and Half a Ladleful of Ham Cullis ; let them have a 
Boil, and having taken oft the Fat, add to them the Juice of 
an Orange. Your Turkies being done, and the Bacon and 
Paper taken away, difh them up with your Cardoons over 
them, and ferve them up hot for the firit Courfe. 

7c? carlonado a Turky. 

RO A S T a Turky till it is near enough ; fcotch it with 
your Knife long-ways, crofs it over again, that it may 
lock like Cheque-work ; then waih it over with Butter, drew 
Salt over it, then fet it in the Dripping-pan to have a Heas, 
turning it two or three Times, then lay it on a Gridiron over 
a gentle Fire of Charcoal ; v^hen it is broil'd enough, take it 
up, difn it, pour over it a Sauce made of Gravy and llrong 
Broth, boil'd up with a Ladleful of dravvn Butter, anAnchovy^ 
a little flic'd Nutmeg, and fome grated Bread ; ftrew it over 
with Earberi its, and garnifn with Orange or Lem.on. Ci> 
you may boil Manchet fiic'd, and foak'd in llrong Broth, with 
Onions, in Gravy, Nutmeg, Lemon cut in Dice, and drawn 
Butter, and put this under the Turkey. 

Turky--u'/M Onion EJfence. 

SLICE Onions, and fry them with Lard in a Stew-pan ; 
drain the Fat a little from them, and tofs them up again 
with a Pinch of Flour; add fome Gravy, Cloves, Pepper, 
Salt, and the ufual Seaibniags ; when they are fcew'd, ftrain 
them through a Flair-fleve, with a little Bread Cullis, and a 
few Drops of V'erjuice or Vinegar. In the mean Time, let 
the Turky be roafung : When it is enough, difh it, pour the 
Sauce over it, garnifh, and ferve it up. 



The Lady's Companion. 277 

To foi'fe Turkies. 

BONE your Turkies, tie up the Flefh in the Manner of 
Sturgeon ; put in a Fan two Quarts of Wine Vinegar, 
and a Quart of Water ; make it boil, feaibn it with Salt ; put 
in your Turkies, boil them till they are tender; if you find 
t\\Q Liquor is not fharp enough, put in more Vinegar, and 
boil them a little longer ; let it be cold, put them in an 
earthen Pan, cover them with the Liquor, let it fland three 
or four Weeks ; when you ufe them, ferve them up as you 
do Sturgeon, with Elder, or other Vinegar, and garnifli with 
Fennel. 

After the fame Manner you may pickle Capons, but then 
you mull firll lard them with great La?doons. 

To p-tv a Turky. 

TA K E a young Turky, fill the Skin on the Ereaft with 
Forc'd-meat, and lard it on the Sides with Bacon ; 
put into the Belly Half a Shalot, and two Anchovies, and a 
little Thyme fhred fmall ; brown it in a Pan with a little 
Butter : When it is very brown put it in a Stew pan, with 
Itrong Gravy, fome White Wine or Claret, two or three An- 
chovies, fome Mace, fvveet Herbs, a little Pepper; and let 
it Hew till it is thoioughly enough, then thicken the Liquor 
with Butter an-d Eggs ; fry fom.e French Loaves dipp'd in 
Cream or Milk, after the Top and the Crumb is taken out ; 
then fill them with ftew'd Oyllers, or Shrimps, or Cockles, 
and Vv'ith them garnifh the Dilh, or with ilic'd Lemon. 
A Fowl, Goofe, or Duck does well this Way. 

Another Way, 

BO N E it, and fill it with Forc'd-meat made thus : Take 
the Flefh of a Fowl, Half a Pound of Veal, and the 
Flcfn of two Pigeons, with a well pickled or dry'd Tongue, 
peel it, and chop it all together, then beat it in a Mortar, 
with the Marrow of a Beef-bone, or a Pound of the Fat of 
a Loin of Veal, feafon it with two or three Blades of Mace, 
two or three Cloves, and Half a Nutmeg, dry'd at a good 
Diftance from the Fire, and pounded, with a little Pepper 
and Salt ; mix all this well together, fill your Turky, fry i: 
of a fine Brown, and put it into a little Pot that will juft hold 
it: lay four or five Skewers at the Bottom of the Pot, to keep 
the Turky from ilicking ; put in a Quart of good Beef and 
Veal Gravy, wherein was boiPd Spice and fweet Herbs, 

cover 



2yS Tke Lady's Companion. 

cover it clofe, and let it ftew Half an Hour ; then put in a 
Glafs of Red Wine, one Spoonful of Catchup, a large Spoon- 
ful of pickled Mufhrooms, and a few frefli ones, if you have 
th§m, a few Trufiles and Morels, a Piece of Butter as big as 
a Walnut, roll'd in Flour ; cover it cloie, and let it ftew Half 
an Hour longer ; get fome little French Rolls ready fry'd, 
take fome Oyfiers, and ftrain the Liquor from them, then put 
the Oyllers and Liquor into a Sauce-pan, with a Blade of 
Mace, a little White Wine, and a Piece of Butter roU'd in 
Flour ; let them Itew till it is thick, then fill the Loaves, lay 
the Turky in the Dilh, and pour the Sauce over it. If there 
be any Fat on the Gravy, take it off, and lay the Loaves on 
each Side of the Turky. Garnifh with Lemon when you 
have no Loaves, and take Oyflers dipt in Batter, and fry'd. 

Teuvg Turkies 'uiith Cream. 

HAVING a young Turky or two, according to the 
Bignefs of your Difh, and being Huffed as before di- 
refted, and roailed, let them be cold ; then take a Bit of a 
Nut of Veal, take off the Skin, and cut it into Bits with 
iov. i Bacon well blanched, fome Beef-iewet, a Calf's Ud- 
der, fome Mufhrooms, Parfley, Chibbol, fweet Herbs, fine 
Spice, Salt, and Pepper ; pat the Vv'hole on the Fire in a 
Stew-pan, and when done take it out, and mince it upon a 
Dreffer j then take the White of your Turky, put it into a 
Mortar, with a Piece of Bread boil'd in Milk, together with 
iix Yolks of Eggs, and Half the Whites beat up to Snow ; 
pound all together, then take a Difh or Baking-pan, and put 
in the Bottom of it fome of the minc'd Meat, and lay your 
Turky over it, and fill up your Difh with the reft of your 
Meat; leave a hollow Place in the Middle of your Difh, to 
put in it a Ragoo of Sweetbreads, Cocks-combs, and Mufh- 
rooms ; lay alfo fome minc'd Meat over the fame ; let your 
Turky be round and plump ; rub your Turky over with 
beaten Eggs, and having ftrew'd fome Crumbs of Bread over 
it, put it in the Oven, or let it be done under the Cover of a 
Baking-pan, wich Fire under and over. Your Turky being 
enough, and of a good Colour, take it out. and clean the 
Border of your Difh well, put a little Efience or CuUis over 
your Turky, and ferve it up hot for a firft Courfe. 

Fowls may be drefs'd the feveral Ways that Tuikies arc, 
and Turkies the fame as Fowis. 



Fowk 



The Lady's CoMPAKiON. 279 

Vovfh farced ivith Crawfifh. 

YOUR Pullets being pickM clean, gut and finge them ; 
put the Livers upon the Dreffcr, with a little fcraped 
Bacon, Parfley, green Onions, Pepper, Salt, fvveet Herbs, 
fine Spice, with Champignons and Truffles, if you have any> 
a^ Bit of Butter ; mince all together, and put it into the Bel- 
lies of your Fowls ; then put them into a Stew-pan, with a 
Lump of Butter, Branches of Parfley, green Onions, Pepper, 
Salt, and fweet Herbs ; let your Fowls be well blanch'd be- 
fore you put them to the Spit ; wrap them up in Slices of 
Bacon, v.'ith a Paper round them ; when they are done, difli 
them, and ferve them with a Ragoo of Crawfifh Tails, or elfe 
in a Cullis of Crawfifh. 

Another Time, inilead of mincing the Livers of your Fowls, 
cut them in four or fix Pieces, with fome other Livers and 
Crawfifn Tails, fcraped Bacon, Parfley cut fmall, green Oni- 
ons, Pepper, Salt, fv/eet Herbs, and fine Spice, all being well 
mincVi together, put it in the Bellies of your Fowls, and let 
them be blanch'd the fame Way as thofe above j after they 
are done, difh them, add to them Crawfifh Cullis, and ferve 
them up hot. 

Fowls with Oyilers. 

SINGE and pick your Fowl-s, and gut them i cut the 
Livers into Bits with a Dozen Oyfters, and a Bit of But- 
ter, feafon'd with Pepper, Salt, fweet Herbs, fine Spi'ce, 
Champignons, Parfley, and green Onions, put all into a Stew- 
pan for a Moment over the Fire, then put all together into 
the Bellies of your Fowls, and do them again, as above, and 
in fpitting them, cover them with Slices of Bacon, and a 
Sheet of Paper; keep a Ragoo of Oyfters in readinefs for the 
Time your Fowls be drefs'd, and make your Ragoo thus :. 
Take three Dozen of Oyfters, blanch them in boiling Water, 
put them in a Colander to drain, and take off the Beards and 
Hard in the Middle ; put in a Stew-pan a Ladleful of Ham- 
CuUis, or as much of the Liquor the Oyflers were blanch'd 
in as you think fit : If you have but one Fowl, there need 
not be fo much of it ; put it over the Fire, fkim off the Fat, 
and tafte it ; then put your Oyflers in, changing your Stew- 
pan : When your Fowh are done, put yourRa^,oo over them, 
with the Juice of a Lemon, and kt it be relilbing, and fervc 
your Fowls up for an Entry. 

Fowli 



a8o The L A D Y*S C AI P A N I N. 

Fowls iviih Oyflers, the Fleii ifii Way, 

DRESS your Fowls as before, and make your Ragoo 
as follows ; Blanch your Oyflers in their Liquor, which 
lay by, and pick them as before ; put Fart of their Liquor in 
a Stew-pan, with four Yoiks of Eggs, fome Butter, Parfiey, 
Terragon, all together, well bUnch'd, and cut fmall, Lemons 
cut in Slices or Imall Squares, an Anchovy cut fmall, Pepper, 
Salt, and Nutmeg ; then put your Oyflers over the Fire, and 
take care the Sauce don't turn ; when your Fowls are roafl- 
ed, take them off the Spit, and take the Wings and Legs 
from the Body, flice them upon the Breaii, and crufh them 
between tv;o Difhes, then put your Ragoo of Oyflers over 
them ; let it be of a goodTafle, and ferve it up hot for an 
Entry. 

Baajied Fowls tvith Anchovies. 

"^7* OUR Fowls being drefs'd as before, put them on the 
\ Spit; then take fome Anchovi :, wafh them, cut a 
Couple of them fmall, and the other ii r l^^es ; put ihofe that 
are cut fmall in a Stew-pan, with goou Uullis and Gravy, a 
Bit of Butter, and the Juice of a Lemon : Your Fowis being 
loafred, take them off the Spit, and difh them up, put your 
Anchovy CuUis over them, and your Anchovies in Slices, 
and ferve thern up hot for an Entry. 

A Fowl a la Braife. 

WHEN you have pick'd and gutted a Fowl, trufs the 
Legs infide the Belly, and lard it v/ith thick Bacon, 
the Bignefs of the Half of a fmall Finger ; feafon it with 
Pepper and Salt, fweet Herbs, and fine Spices, then lard your 
Fowl, and bind it with Packthread ; take a long deep Stew- 
ing-pan, andput in it fome Slices of Bacon and Veal, then 
put your Fowls into it, feafon'd with Pepper and Salt, f^eet: 
Bafi!, Thyme, Bay-leaves, Onions, and aCsumb of Gar- 
lick ; continue to cover it with Slices of Bacon and Veal, 
and moiller: it with a Glafs of Wine, and one or two Ladles 
full of Broth J fiew it, Fire under and over ; being done, difh 
it up, putting a minc'd Sauce over it, or a Ragoo of S\seet- 
breads of Veab Cocks -combs, and Champignons, or a Cullis 
of Ham, or a Ragoo of Oyilers : All which depends on the 
Fancy of the Cook, if only it hath a goodTafte j then fejve 
it up hot for an Entry. 



T'he LADY'sCoMPANiojf. 281 

Roaji^d Fowl n-vith Chefnuts. 

GU T your Fowl, cut the Liver fniail, together with 
Parfley, green Onions, fcraped Bacon, Butter, Pepper, 
Salt, fweet Herbs, and fine Spice ; take Chefnuts, peel thei-n, 
and put them into a Braife, to take off the fmall Skin ; th'^n 
mix them with Forc'a-mcat, put all together into the Belly of 
your Fowl, and blanch it in a Stew-pan with a Bit of Futte:. 
Spit your Fowl, wrapped up in Bards of Eacon, with Paper 
ty'd round it. Take your peePd Chefnuts, put them in a 
Baking-pan, Fire under and over, and take off the fmall 
Skin, then put them in a Stew-pan with Broth, and let tliem 
be done thoroughly ; pour out the Broth, and put in Half a 
Ladleful of Elience of Ham, a little Cullis, and a little 
Gravy ; your P"owi being done, draw it off the Spit, and 
take off the Eard^ of Bacon ; difh k up, put your Chefnuts 
over it, with the Juice of a Lemon, and ferve it up hot for an 
Entry. 

Pullets u la Sainte Menehout. 

AF T F R having trufs'd the Legs in the Body, Hit them 
along the Back, fpread them open on a Tat le, beat 
them, take out the Thigh-bones. Take a Pound and a Half 
of Veal, cut it in Slices, lay it in a Stew-pan of a convenient 
Size to hold your Pullets ; cover it, and fet it over a Stove : 
When it begins to cleave to the Stew-pan, put in a little 
Flour, and keep moving your Pan over the Fire to brown it, 
moiften it with as much Broth as is neceffary to ftew the Pul- 
lets ; feafon it with Salt, Pepper, favoury Fierbs, and Spices, 
foir.e fhred Parfley, a Bunch of Herbs, and fome Onions ; lard 
your Pullets with large Lardoons well feafon'd, place them 
in the Stew-pan, lay fome Bards of Bacon on the Pullets, 
cover the Stew-pan, and fet them over a flack Fire. When 
they are alout half done, uncover the Stew-pan, put in Half 
a Pint of Milk, and a little Cream ; then cover your Pan 
again, and continue to ftew them. When they are done 
enough, take off the Stew-pan, and let the Pullets cool in 
their Liquor ; when they are cool, take them out, rub them 
over with the Fat of the Liquor in which they were rtew'd, 
drudge them vveil with Bread crumb'd very f ne, place them 
in a Pafty-pan, and brown them in an Oven, or under a Bak- 
ing cover : When they are come to a fine Colour lay them in 
a Difh, pour on them fome Effence of Ham, and ferve them 
up for a iiril Courfe. 

You 



282 ^he Lady's Compai^ioj/. 

You may broil them on a Gridiron over a little Fire, in- 
flead of putting them into the Oven j or elfe, 

You may fry them ; but in this Cafe, before you drudge, 
you muft dip them in beaten Eggs, then drudge them with 
Bread, as above, and fry thv^m in Hcg's-Lard till they are 
brown ; then take them up, and fet them a draining. Fold 
a Napkin in the Dilh in wnich you intend to ferve them, lay 
them handfomely upon it with fry'd Parlley, and ferve them 
for the firil Courfe. 

Pullet, cr Chicken Surprize. 

ROAST them off ; if a fiaall Bifh, two Chickens, or 
one Pullet, will be enough. Take the Lean of your 
Pullet, or Chickens, from the Bone, cut it in thin Slices art 
Inch long, and tofs it up in fix or feven Spoonfuls of Milk or 
Cream, with the Bignels of Half an Egg of Butter, grated 
Nutmeg, Pepper, and Salt ; thicken it with a little Dull of 
Flour, to theThicknefs of a good Cream, then boil it up, and 
fet it to cool ; then cut fix or feven thin round Slices of Bacon, 
place them in i Patty-pan, and put on each Slice fome Forc'd- 
meat, then work them up in form of a French Roll, with 
raw Egg in your Hand, leaving a hollow Place in the Mid- 
dle ; then put in your Fowl, and cover them with fome of 
the fame Forc'd-meat, rubbing it f.-nooth over with your 
Hand, and an Egg, make them of the Height and Bignefs 
of a French Roll i throw a little fine grated Bread over them, 
bake them three Quarters of an Hour in a gentle Oven, or 
under a Baking Cover, till they come to a yellow Brown, 
place them on your Mazarine, that they may not touch one 
another, but fo that they may not fall flat in the Baking : 
But you may form them on your Kitchen-table, with your 
Slices of Bacon under them ; then lift them up with your 
broad Kitchen-knife, and place them on that which you in- 
tend to bake them on. Let your Sauce be Butter and Gravy, 
and fqueez'd Lemon, and your Garnilbing fry'd Parfley, and 
cut Orange. You may put the Legs of one of your Chickens 
into the Sides of one of your Loaves that you intend to put in 
the Middle of your Difh. This is proper for a Side-diih, for 
a firft Courfe, either in Summer or Winter, where you can 
have the Ingredients above -mentioned. 



ir^ 



7he Lad yTs C o m;> a j;r i o n, sS^r 

!r« ^'/f/J Pullets t? la Warfare. 

AFTER you have ciufs'd a Couple of Pullets as for 
boiling, flit them along the Back, fpread them open 
upon a Dreffer, and beat them. Put in a Stew-pan of the 
Size of the Pullets, fome Parfle/, Gives, and favour/ Herbs, 
fhred very fmall, and feafon'd with Salt and Pepper : Lay 
the Pullets into the Sttw pan with the Breaili downwards ; 
put fome of the above Seafoning upon them, then pour in 
fome melted Bacon, ftir them aboat,.and let them lie in this 
Mixture two Hours, to give them the Talie of it. Then fee 
the Stew-pan over the Fire, to melt the Bacon again, and keep 
the Pullets moving in it for Half a Quarter of an Hour j after 
which take them out, drudge them well with Bread crumb'd 
very fine, and lay them to broil on a Gridiron over a flack. 
Fire, till they are grown brown : Prepare a hafh'd Sauce, 
lay it on the Bottom of a Diih, and the Pullets upon it. 

Hen or Pullet roajled. 

TAKE either a Hen or Pullet, full of Eggs, draw it, and 
roaft it ; being enough, cut it up, and fhred the brawny 
Part in fmall Slices, leave the Wings, Legs, and Rump whole, 
ftew all in the Gravy, with fome Salt, add thereunto a minc'd 
Lemon j being enough, let the Meat lie in the Middle of the 
Difh, with the Legs, Wings, and Rump about it j garnifh the 
Difh with Oranges and Lemons quartered. 

Fat Hen, 

GET a fat Hen, drefs it, cut off the Wings and Legs, 
and lard with fmall Lardoons ; after it is flour'd, pafs 
it in the Pan with Lard, then foak it with good Broth, and 
feafon it : When it is almofl enough, fry it with Mufhrooms, 
fat Livers, a little Flour, and an Onion ftuck with Cloves : 
After all is well flew'd, and the Sauce well thicken'd, you 
may ferve it garnifh'd with Pomegranates. 

Another Way, 

FARCE it with Oyfters, or with young Pigeons, ftew it 
the fame Way, and garnifh as you like ; then ferve. 

Another Way, 

WHEN it is fluck or cover'd with a Paper over the 
Bard, roafl it : When it is well roafled, powder it with 
Crumbs of Bread, and Stit ; then ferve it with Poor ManU 
Sauce, Verjuice, or Orange, and in Winter with D-cffes. 

Eawls 



«54 'The Lady's Companion-. 

Fowls in Fi-Uets nvith Pii'tachoes. 

SPIT your Fowls, and let them roafl ; they being don?, 
take them off, and cut ofr :Le Wing% and the White of? 
the Breafi ; keep a fmall Sauce ready'in a S:ew-pan, made 
with fweet Herbs, a httic good Butter, fmall Champignons 
cut in Slices ; put it ove. the Fire w th a Dufi of Flour in 
it, ftir and moiften it v^ith a Ladlcful of good Broth ; fee it be 
of a good Tafte : The Piftachoes being fcalded, and cut into 
Slices, put them in, and make a thick Sauce with four or five 
Yolk^ of Eggs, beat the fame up with Cream -, then put in 
the White and Legs of your Fowls, with the Juice of a Le- 
mon ; you mull cut your Wings only in two, then place the 
Slices of your Fowls in the Bottom of the Difh, with, your 
Sauce over it, and let there be no Sauce remaining ; make it 
as reliihing as poiTibly can be, and lerve it up hot for an En- 
try. 

A Fowl, Chicken, or Capon a la Bourgeoife. 

GE T a Fowl, fmge, pick, draw, and trufs it ; take a 
Kettle, or Earthen Pot, put Water in it, enough to 
foak your Fowl i put your Pot over the Fire wilh a Handful 
of Salt ; and when the Water boils, put in your Fowl, but 
let it not boil too much : Put a I ump of Butter in a Stew- 
pan, with a Duft of Flour, Nutmeg, Pepper, Salt, and Oy- 
fters, if any are to be had j put your Stew-pan over the Fire, 
and thicken your Sauce ; which being thickened, and pretty 
reliihing, take out your Fowl, and dilh it up with Oyller- 
fauce over it. 

At another Time you may take a little Parfley, fome green 
Onions, a little Mint, and a little Terragon, if you have any; 
but you may make ycur Sauce with Parlley only : But if you 
can get Anchovies, cut a Couple fmall, and put them into it ; 
cut inalf a Lemon, after having taken off the Rind, into fmall 
fquare Pieces, and fqueeze in th.e other Half, then put in a 
little Butter, with a Dull of Flour, and a little Water, Pepper, 
and Salt, and fet your Sauce a fcewing. Your Fowl being 
done, difh it up with your Sauce over it. 

At another Time, put forne Endive with your Fov.l ; and 
when it is done, give ic two or three Cuts wdth a Knife, and 
put it into a Stew-pan with a little Butter, and a Duft of 
Flour, and fet it over the Fire ; then moiiten it with a little 
of the fame Broth your Fowl hath been boiPd in ; if it be 
not tliick enough, thicken it with Eggs. 

At 



Jbe Lad y's Companion.' 2 85 

At another Time, you may dreis your F^wl with Onions, 
in boiling th^m with your Fowl; you may put them in a 
Stevv-pan or Earthen D.lh, with a Lump of cutter roll'd in 
Flour, Feppv-T, and Salt ; put it over the Fire with fome of 
t\\i Broth your Fowl was boii'd in ; thicken your Sauce, and 
ferve it up hot for an Entry. 

y^ Fowl in Hafh, 

("^ E T fome Fowls ready drefs'd, then take the Flefh, and 
y cut it very fir.all ; take the Carcaies, put them in a 
Stew-pan with good Broth, an Onion cut into Slices, Parflcy, 
and hveet Herbs ; when it is boiPd enough, ftrain it off; then 
pat in it a Bit of Butter roird in Flour, and let it ftew a Mo- 
ment again ; then put in it your Haili of Fowls ; let your 
Haul be relifhing, thicken it with three Yolks of Eggs, or 
more, according to the Quantity of Hafii you make; it be- 
ing thick, put in it the Juice of a Lemon, and ferve them 
up hot for Hon aO^uvre, 

A Ha/h cf Fowls ibe Englifli Way. 

LE T your Fowls be ready drefled, take ofF the White, 
cut the fame into fmall fquare Pieces, and put it in a 
Stew-pan ; boil the Carcafes in a ii-ttle Broth, then ilrain it 
through a Strainer ; take this Broth, and put in it your 
Pieces of Fowl, cut into fmall Squares, and put it over the 
Fire ; add to it a Bit of Butter rolled in Flour, a little Pep- 
per and Salt, and if there is Occafion for it, the Juice of a 
Lemon ; difh it up, garnifli it with fmall Pieces of Bread 
l"iied, and ferve it up hot for Hors d'O.uvre. 

Fowls a la I'Jommorenry. 

SINGE, gut, and trufs a Fowl, and blanch it over a 
Charcoal Fire ; then lard it with tliin Bacon ; being 
larded, fplititin the Back, put into the Belly a fmall Ragoo, 
with Sweetbreads of Veal, Champignons, Truffles, and fome 
Bottoms of Artichoaks ; put it in a rtewing in a Stew-pan 
with Slices of Bacon, Ham, and Veal ; being liew'd, take it 
off, and put in it a little Broth ; let it have a Boil, then ftrain 
it off, and fkim the Fat well off; then fet it on again, and let 
it ftew till it turns to Caramel, then put it in your Fowls, and 
put your Bacon-Slices into the Caramel, put it upon hot 
Cinders, that it may glaze as it ihouLd: Being ready to ferve 
up, put a CuUis of Ham, or a Sauce made the Italian Way, 
into your Dilh, then your Chickens over it, and ferve if up 
hot j'cr an Kntr'/. 



nr 



'zS6 The Lady's Companioi}^ 

To boil Pullets ivith Oyflers. ^ 

BOIL three Pullets in Water and Salt, with a Piece of 
Bacon ; for Sauce draw up a Pound of Butter, with a 
little White Wine, firong Broth, and a Quart of Oyilers, then 
put the Pullets in a Dilh, cut the Bacon, and lay it about them 
with fome fry'd Saufages -, garnilh with flic'd Lemon, 

Chickens nvith Mujhrooms and fix ee' Herbs roajled-, 
A K E Chickens, clean them well, and draw them » 
rafp fome Bacon, and put a few Mufhrooms, Parfley, 
and young Onions, and a little fweet Bafil, with the Livers 
of your Chickens f.afon'd with Pepper and Salt. Hafh all> 
and mix it together ; put it in the Bodies of your Chickens j 
then put them in a Stev-pan, with a Piece of Butter, Parfley, 
young Onions, Salt, and fweet Bafil. Being done, packthread 
them, and fpit them, and put them to the Spit wrapp'd with 
Bards of Bacon, and let them roaft fiowly. l\^ake a Ragoo 
of Mufhrooms, after this Manner: If they are dry'd Mufh- 
rooms, fleep them in lukewarm Water for one Hour or two, 
then take them out, and put them in a Stew-pan with fome 
Gravy, and let them flew on a flow Fire. Having llew'd a 
Quarter of an Hour, thicken them with fome Cullis. When 
your Chickens are done, take them from the Spit, unbard 
them, and drefs them handfomeiy in their Difh ; fee that 
your Ragoo of Mufhrooms be of a good Tafte, and fharp, 
put it upon your Chickens, and ferve it hot for a firll: Courie. 

Chickens nxilh fvjeet Herbs roajlrj. 

YOUR Chickens being neatly drefs'd, rafp fome Bacon 
and a little Ham, hafh them well with Parfley, young 
Onions, and the Livers of Chickens hafh'd, feafon'd with 
Pepper and Salt ; mix it all together, and put it in the Bodies 
of your Chickens. You mull obferve to fallen them always 
at both Ends ; let them do in a Stew-pan with a Bit of But- 
ter, whole Parfley, and young Onions whole ; fpit them, and 
wrap them with Bards of Bacon, and covered with Sheets of 
Paper, and put them to roafl flowly. When they are done, 
take them off, and unbard them, and drefs them neatly in 
their Difh, throw an Effence of Ham on them, and ferve 
theai up hot for a iirfl Courfe. 



Chickens 



57jf L A D y's Companion. 287 

Chickens roajled nvith Force meat and Cucumbers, 

DRESS your Chickens neatly, take off the Breafls and 
bone them, put the Flefh upon the Table, with fome 
Ham and blanched Bacon, and a Calf's Udder blanch'd, fome 
Champignons, a httleParfley, and young Onions, a few fweet 
Herbs, fine Spices, three cr four Yolks of Eggs, fome Crumbs 
of Bread ioak'd in Cream or Milk, and boil the Bread, then 
leave it to cool ; being cool, pui it with the Farce, and hafh 
all well together, and iluff your Chickens with it. Clof« 
them at both Ends, keep a little of the Farce, let them Hew 
as before, run a Skewer through their Legs, and fpit them, 
wrapped with Bards of Bacon, and covered with Sheets of Pa- 
per, and let thein do flowly. Take four middling Cucumber?, 
pare them, and empty their Infides ; being well empty*d, 
blanch them in fome Broth ; being blanch'd, put them in cold 
Water, then fluff them wi:h the Farce, and flour them at each 
End. Take a Stew-pan, and put fome Bards of Bacon in it, 
and lay your Cucumbers over ; feafon them, and wet them 
with a Ladleful of Broth, and let it boil ; take Half a Spoon- 
ful of your Cullis, and put it in a Stew-pan j let your Cullis 
be of a good Talle. When your Chickens are done, take 'em 
out, drefs them in your Difh, and put your Cucumbers to 
drain, then put them round your Chickens, and put your Cul- 
lis over them, with the Juice of a Lemon, and ferve it hot. 
You m^ drefs Capons the fame Way. 

Chickens a la Braife, 

HAVING the fatteil Chickens you can get, parboil 
them ; lard them with large Lardoons of Bacon and of 
Ham, both very well feifon'd ; when they are larded, tie them 
about with a Packthread : then put at the Bottom of a fmall 
Kettle Bards of Bacon and Slices of Beef, well beaten, and 
fcafon'd in the fame Manner as for the other Braifes already 
mcntion'd ; put the Chickens into the Kettle, the Breafls dovv»- 
wards, feafon them above as underneath; lay over them Slices 
of Beef and Bards of Bacon, cover the Kettle, and fet them 
to flew, with Fire over the Kettle as well as under it. Then 
make aKa^oo as follows : Take fome Veal Sweetbreads and 
cut theui in Moifels, add to them fome Cocks-combs, fome 
Mufhrcoms and Truffles cut in Slices ; feafon all this with Pep- 
per, Salt, ard a Bunch of favoury Herbs ; put it into a Stew- 
paa, and tofs it up over a S::ove with fome melted Bacon. 
Then put fome Gravy amongfl jt, and fvt it to fimmer over a 

gentle 



283 ^'he Lad y's C o m p a n ion. 

gentle Fire; when it is half done, put to it Tome Afparagias- 
Tops, and Artichoke-Bottoms, cut in Quarters, and blanched j 
then continue to prepare your Ragoo, and when it is enough, 
be careful to take oix all ih;; Fat, and thicken it with a Cul- 
lis of Veal and Ham; take up your Chickens, let them 
drain, and then put them into a Stew-pan amongft your 
Ragoo ; and w'len you are ready to ferve, take them cut, 
unbind the Packthread, and lay them handlbmely in the 
Di(h you intend to ferve them m: Take care your Ragoo 
be well relilned, and the Fat be well taken off; then pour 
it on the Chickens, and ferve them warm for the firil Courfe. 
We ferve Chickens a la B aifu fomecimes with a Ragoo of 
CrawfiTi, cr of Oyxlersj as likewifewjth all Sorts of Ragoos 
of Legumes. 

To fa'ce Chickens ^uh Ancho'ius. 

RAISE the Sk'n from the Breails of your Chickens 
with your Finger ; then grate fome fat Eacon, feafon 
it with Pepper, Salt, two Anchovies, fome Cives, and I^ar- 
iley Hired fmall ; mix thefe together, and liuiF the Chickens 
Breaib wirh it ; then tie them with Packthread, wrap them 
up in Bards of Bacon and Sheets of Paper ; fpit them and 
roail them. ■ In the mean Time, vvath and bone two Ancho- 
vies, mince them very fmall, and meit them in a Stew pan 
with a clear Cullis o>f Veal and Ham. Keep the Cullis 
warm, and, when the Chickens are roalled enough, take off 
the Bards, put them in a Difh, pour the Cullis upon them, 
and izm them up for the firfl Courfe. 

After the fame rviaineryou iiiay drefs Capons, Pullets, 
Partridges, Quails, Fillets cf \ cai, and Mutton with An- 
chovies. 



drfp Chickens <^.ilth Gravy. 



TA K E as many Bards of Bacon as you have Chickens, 
and of the fame Size ; feafon them with Salt, Pepper, 
Parfley, Cives, andfavoury Herbs, all Ihred together very fine ; 
then loofen the Skin from the Chickens Brealh, and tbruR: one 
of thefe feafoned Slices of Bacon between the Skin and Breall 
of each; then bind thein in with Packthread, then wrap them 
up inBards of Bacon, put them on the Spit to roail them, when 
they are done, take off the Bards, diih thern, and pour on 
them fome Veal-Gravy, and ferve them up in little Difhes. 



ne Lady's Companion! a89 

Another Way. 

YO U muft take Pullets, Chickens, or Sweetbreads, 
Mufhrooms, Oyfters, Anchovies, Marrow, and a little 
Lemon-peel, a little Pepper, Salt, Nutmeg, and a little 
Thyme, Marjoram, Savoury, and a few Gives ; mingle all 
thefe together with the Yolk of an Egg, then raife up the 
Skin of the Breafls of your Fowls, and Ituff it ; and flick it 
up again, and lard them, fill their Bellies with Oyllers, and 
roail them ; make llrong Gravy Sauce : So you may do 
Pheafants, Turkies, or what Fowl you pleafe. 

To broil Chickens. 

SLIT them down the Back, and feafon them with Salt 
and Pepper, lay them on a very clear Fire, and at a great 
D ftance, and let the Inlide lie next the Fire, that the iiefhy 
Side be notfcorch'd nor difcolour'd : when they are half done, 
you may turn them often, and bafte them very often; ftrew 
on fome Rafpings of a French Roll ; that it may be crifp, it 
muft be finely grated ; flired Parfley and melted Butter is 2t 
good and ready Sauce ; or you may take a large Handful of 
Sorrel, dip it in fcalding Water, then drain it, and have ready- 
Half a Pint of llrong Broth or Gravy, a Shalot fhred 
fmall, a little Thyme, a little Parfley, a Bit of burnt Butter tc^ 
thicken it; lay the Sorrel in Heaps, and pour the Sauce over 
it : Garnilh with flic'd Lemon. 

Puird Chickens. 

BOIL fix Chickens near enough, then flea them, and 
pull the white Flefh all from the Eones, put it in a Stew- 
pan withHalf aPintof Cream, which mufl be firft made fcald- 
ing hot, the Gravy that runs from the Chickens, a few Spoon- 
fuls of that Liquor they were boiPd in ; to this add fome raw 
Parfiey fhred fine, give them a Tofs or two over the Fire, and 
duft a little Flour upon fome Butter, and fhake up with them. 
Chickens done this Way muft be kilPd the Night before, and 
little more than half boiPd, and pulPd in Pieces as broad as 
your Finger, and Half as long ; you may add a Spoonful of 
White Wine. 

Chickens hafhed. 

BOIL them in Water and Salt; then take Turnips, cut 
them in Slices, and after cut them like Lard an Inch long, 
but fmall, a good Quantity, putting them into a Stew-pan 
with a Pound of Butter, three or four Spoonfuls of ftrong Broth, 
V©L. I. O witk 



290 ^he L A D Y*s Companion. 

With a little Wine Vinegar, fome Pepper and Ginger, Sugar 
and Salt; thus let them ftew leifurely, with fome Mace, 
about two Hours ; being enough, put them on Sippets, run- 
ning them over with Butter, Cream, and Yolks of Eggs beaten 
up together. 

To farce Chickens Bur lion blanc. 

AFTER you have minc'd the White of their Breails 
with fat Bacon boiPd, the Crumb of a Fret.ch Roll 
boil'd in Milk, and a little Marrow, take the Yolk of one Egg 
boil'd hard, and the Yolk of another raw ; mince all thefe to- 
gether, and feafon them with Salt, Pepper, Nutmeg, and the 
Juice of Lemon ; lay this up in your Chicken=, and bake 
them: Of the Forc'd-meat you m.ay make Patties to garnifn 
your Chickens, but put neither Bread nor Eggs to your 
Forc'd-m.eat. 

To drefs Chickens the Barbary Way. 

TRUSS them, break their Bones with a Rolling-pin ; 
farce the Bodies of them with a very high Farce, then 
boil them in Milk, but put them not in till it boils ; feaibn 
with high Seafoning and favoury Herbs : When they are 
enough, broil them on a Gridiron till they are brown, then 
fervc them up with a Ramolade. 

To boil Chickens and Afparagus. 

TAKE fome Chickens, force them with a good Forc'd- 
meat, and boil them white : Cut your Afparagus about 
an Inch long, parboil them in Water, into which put a little 
Butter and Flour ; and, v^hen it is parboiFd, drain it, then 
diilolve a little Butter and Salt gently in a Stew-pan, being 
careful that it does not become brown ; then put a little 
m r.c'd Parfley and Cream, fome Salt, Nutmeg, Pepper, and 
a Faggot of Fennel to the Afparagus ; ftew it over a gentle 
Fire, fqueeze a Lemon over the Chickens, and pour over 
them the Afparagus (taking the Fennel away) with the Butter 
they were Ilew'd in. 

J particular Manner ofjle^ing Chickens or Rabbits. 

GE T two, three, or four Chickens, about the Bignefs of 
a Partridge, and boil them till they are half done ; then 
take them off, and cut them into little Pieces, feparating the 
joint.bones o.ie from another ; let not the Meat be minc'dy 
but cut into great Slices, not fo exadly, but more or lefs ; the 
Breail-bones are not fo proper to be put in : However, put the 
Meat, together with the other Bones (upon which there muft 

alfo 



Tha L A D y's C O M P A N I O N.' 29 I 

alfo be fome Meat remaining) into a good Quantity of that 
Water or Broth wherein the Chickens were boil'd ; and fet 
it over a Chafing-difli of Coals, between two Difhes, that fo 
it may ftew on till it be fully enough ; but firft feafon it with 
Salt and grofs Pepper, and afterwards add Oil to it, more or 
lefs, according to the Goodnefs thereof : A little before you 
take the Meat from the Fire, put in fuch a Quantity of Juice 
of Lemons as may befi agree with your Tafte. This makes 
an excellent Dilli of Meat, which is to be ferv'd up in the Li- 
quor ; and though, for a Need, it may be made with Butter 
inftead of Oil, and with Vinegar infiead of Lemon-juice, yet 
the otherls incomparably better for fuch as have not an Aver- 
fion for Oil. The fame Difh may be alfo made of Veal, or 
Partudge, or R-abbits ; and indeed the beft of them all isRab- 
•bits, if drefs'd before iMicbadmas^ for afterwards they grow 
rank ; fmce though they are fatter, yet the Flelh is more harcJ 
and dry. 

Chickens farced ivith Oyfters. 
A R D them, then mince fom.e fweet Herbs, ParfleyV 
Truilies, Mufhrooms, and Onions, with Oyfters ; after 
being parboil'd, feafon it with Salt and Pepper, put to it the 
Yolk of an Egg and a Piece of Butter ; with this farce your 
Chickens, then tie them at both Ends and roaft them ; when 
done, fcrve them up with a Ragoo, garnifn with flic'd Le- 
mon. 

Chickens ~,.vith Sellery. 

BOIL them off white with a Piece of Ham, then boil ofF 
two Bunches of Sellery ; cut them two Inches along 
the white End, and lay them in a Stev/pan ; put in fome 
Cream, Butter, and Salt ; Hove them a little and thickilh ;. 
then lay your Chickens in your Diih, with your Sellery be- 
tween. Garniih with fiic'd Ham and Lemon. 

Chickens Chiriv<rrate, 

o 

CU T off their Feet, break the Breaft-bone flat with a 
Rolling-pin, but take care, you don't break the Skin ; 
flour them, fry then of a f ne brown in Butter, then drain all 
the Fat out of the Pan, but leave the Chickens in; lay a Pound 
of Gravy-beef cut very thin over your Chickens, and a Piece 
of Veal cut very thin, a little Mace, two or three Cloves, 
fome whole Pepper, an Onion, a little Bundle of fweet Herbs^, 
and a Piece of Carrot, and then pour in a Quart of boiling 
Water ; cover it ciofe, let it Hew for a Quarter of an Hour, 

O 2 the» 



^92 The Lady's Companion. 

then take out the Chickens and keep them hot; let the Gravy 
boil till it is quite rich and good, then Ibain it off, and put it 
into your Pan again, with two Spoonfuls of Red Wine, and a 
few Mulhrooms ; put in your Chickens to heat, then take 
them up, lay them into your Difh, and pour your Sauce over 
them. Garnifh with Lemon, and a few Slices of cold Ham 
warm'd in the Gravy. 

You may fill your Chickens with Forc'd-meat, and lard 
them with Bacon, and add Truff es. Morels, and Sweetbreads 
cut fmall, but then it will be a very high Difh. 

Chickens nKith Tongues, Cauhfit^ers, and Greens. 

TAKE fix Hogs Tongues, bo J them, and fkin them, 
fix Chickens boiPd off white, one Cauliflower boiFd, 
and fome Spinach J put your Cauliflower in the Middle of 
your Difh, your Chickens about it, and between, a Tongue 
with Heaps of Spinach round, and Slices of Bacon. 

Chickens ^oyal. 

LARD them, and force the Bellies, and pafs them ofFj 
then Hove them in good Gravy and Broth, Gold Co- 
lour : Make a Ragoo of Mufhrooms, MoreLs Truffles, and 
Cocks- combs, and when your Chickens are enough, difh them 
up, lay your Ragoo over, and garnilh with Petty- patties and 
fjy'd Sweetbreads. 

Scotch Chickens. 

CUT your Chickens in Quarters ; finge them, and wafh 
them well, and then put as much Water as will jufl 
cover them j put them on a gentle Fire, and when they boil 
Ikim them well, and put in fome Salt, Mace, and Nutmeg, a 
Faggot of Thyme, Parfley, and a little Pepper -, and when 
your Chickens are tender, chop half a Handful of Parfley, 
and put it in them \ then beat up fix Eggs, Yolks and Whites 
together ; and as your Chickens boil up, put in your Eggs 
atop, and fo ferve them all together, the Broth will be very 
clear. 

7o drejs Chickens n^j'ith Slices of Ham. 

TAKE Chickens, and trufs them, but don't blanch 
them ; then cut a Slice of Ham for each Chicken, and 
feafon your Ham with Cives and Parfley fhred fmall ; then 
with your Finger loofen the Skins from your Chickens 
Breails, and put the Slices of Ham between the Breaft and 
Skin J then blanch them before the f ir<?, wrap them up in 

Bards 



ne Lady's Companion; 293 

Bards of Bacon, tie them about with Packthread, put them 
on the Spit, and roaft them : When they are enough, take off 
your Bards, difh your Chickens, and pour on fome Eflence of 
Gammon of Bacon, and ferve them up hot for the lirftCourfe. 

To marinate Chickens. 

TAKE Chickens, quarter them, and lay them for two 
or three Hours to marinate in Vinegar or Verjuice, 
and Juice of Lemon, Salt, Pepper, Cloves, Bay-leaves, and 
Cives ; then make a Batter with Flour, White Wine or Wa- 
ter, the Yolks of Eggs, Salt, and melted Butter ; beat all 
thefe well together, drain your Chickens, and dry them with 
a Cloth, dip them into it, and fry them in Hog's Lard ; and, 
when they are well coloured, dilh them up in the Form of a 
Pyramid, and ferve them up with fry'd Parfley and Slices of 
•Lemon. 

We fometimes drudge them with Flour inftead of dipping 
them in Batter j but then the Hog's Lard mud be very hot 
before you put them into the Pan. 

7*0 Ms Chickens the Polifh Way. 

K[* A VI N G larded your Ciiickens with Half Bacon and 
[ Half Anchovies, feafori them with favoury Herbs and 
Spices I then take fome blaiiched Bacon, the Chickens Li- 
vers, raw Spic:i, fvveet Herbs, and the Yolks of three Eggs, 
hafh them all very fmall, and make a Farce ; then fill your 
Chickens, fpit and roall them : When they are fomething 
better than half roafted, heat a Fire-fhovel almofl red hot, 
put thereon fome Bards of Bacon, and balle the Chickens 
with it, but take care not to black them : When they are 
roailed, ferve them up with a warm Ramolade. 

To Jieiv Chickens. 

WHEN you have quarter'd your Chickens, put them 
into Wine and V/ater, but let there be more Wine 
than Water, fi:e\v them till they are tender ; then add a good 
Quantity of Butter, a Bunch of fweet Herbs, and large Mace, 
and raip in it a Manchet to thicken it ; feafon it with Salt, 
Pepper, and Nutmeg, and put in fome Parfley and Sage if 
you pleafe ; beat fome Yolks of Eggs well with the Juice of 
a Lemon in the Sauce, and lay Marrow on the Top of your 
Chickens ; garnifli with Parfley and (lic'd Lemon, and ferve 
them up. 

03 T» 



294 ^he L A D y's C Af p a N 3 n. 

7o fry Chickens. 

TAKE four Chickens, and boil them almofl enough l- 
then cut them in Pieces, and take the Juice of Spinachj. 
and put it into the Yolks of eight Eggs, put to it fome fhred 
Parfley, and a grated Nutmeg ; your Stew-pan being hot with 
Ciaiify'd Butter, dip in your Pieces of Chickens into the green 
Batter, and fry them gently on both Sides ; then put to them 
a Sauce o^ Rhenijh Wine, beaten with, three Yolks of Eggs, 
and Parfley boil'd and minc'd, with a Lemon cut in Dice ; 
keep them ftirring till they boil ; then cut Sippets, and put 
the Pieces of Chickens upon it, and pour the Sauce over. 

Ducklings a la Mode. 

CUT them in Quarters, and lard one Half, and browa 
them off; ilove them in Half a Pint of Claret, a Pint of 
Gravy, and two Shalots, one Anchovy, and a Faggot of 
Herbs ; ftove them tender, Ikim off the Fat, take out the Fag- 
got, and fqueeze in a Lemon -, fhake it together ; the Sauce 
mull be thick as Cream, fo ferve away to Table hot. Gar- 
iiiih with Lemon. 

Stoved Ducks the Dutch Way. 

YO U muft trufs two Ducks clofe without the Legs, and 
lard one ; feafon with Pepper and Salt, and fill the Bel- 
lies with fmall Onions ; then lay at the Bottom of your Stew- 
pan Half a Pound of Butter, and put in your Ducks, and cover 
them with flic'd Onions, then another Half Pound of Butter ; 
ftove this two Hours gently, keeping it covered all the while: 
When you find all difcolour'd, and your Ducks tender, difh 
them, Ihaking a little Vinegar amongft them. Garnilh with 
Lemon. 

Duck or Teal ivlth Horfe-radifh. 

TRUSS them to boil, if two, lard one, and pafs them 
off in brown Butter, then put to them a Pint of clear 
Broth, and two Plates of Horfe-radifli ; feafon with Salt, and 
Hove thefe together till tender ; then ftrain off your Horfe- 
radifn from your Ducks, and put in a good Piece of Butter ; 
you may fcrape your Horfe-radifh \'ery fine, which is the befl 
Way ; then lay your Ducks in )'our Difn, and your Horfe- 
radifli all over, and garniih with fcrap'd Horfe-radTlh and 
ilic'd Lemon, and ferve away hot. 



the Lady'^s Companion; 295 

To drefs a Wild Duck nxiith Lemon-juice. 

GE T a Duck, half roail it, then take it off the Spit, ^y^A 
lay it in a Dilh ; carve it, but leave the Joints hanging 
together : In all the Incifions put Salt, and beaten Pepper, 
and fqueeze the Juice of Lemons ; turn it on the Breaft, and 
prefs It hard v^^ith a Plate, put to it two or three Spoonfuls of 
Gravy, and fet it a little to ilew ; turn it again, and ferve ic 
hot in its own Gravy . 

You may do it the fame Way with Juice of Orange. 

7c jlenM a Duck nj:ild or tame. 
E T a Stew-pan, put at the Bottom of it Slices of Ba- 
con and Beef; add fome Parfnips, Carrots, and O'^'ons 
flic'd, and fome Slices of Lemon, a few favoury Herbs, with 
Pepper, Salt, and Cloves ; then put in your Duck, cover it; 
when it is ilew'd enough, take up the Duck, and make a Ra- 
goo of Lambs Sweetbreads, with Cocks-combs, Truffles, 
Mufhroom.s, and Artichoak Bottoms : Tofs up all this ia 
melted Butter, and pour on the Ducks. 

Another Way. 

A L F road them, then put them into a Stew-pan ; put 
in a Pint of Claret, and a Pint of ftrong Broth, two 
Onions quartered, and a Bunch of fweet Herbs, with a littls 
beaten Pepper ; ftew them in a Pan covered, and when they 
are enough, garnilh. with fry'd Bacon. 

Another Way. 

TAKE your Ducks and feafon them with Salt, Pepper, 
and a few Cloves, a Shalot or two, with a Piece of 
Butter in the Belly of each of them. ; put them in an earthen 
Pan that will jult hold them ; then put Haifa Pint of Claret, 
and as much ftrong Gravy, and Haifa Pound of Butter un- 
der and over your Ducks, and Plalf aPint of Water, aBunch 
of fweet Plerbs, fome whole Cloves, then cover the Pan 
clofe ; let them ilew two Hours and a Half, then ilrain the 
Liquor, and pour it over your Ducks ; ferve them hot, and 
garnifn with Lemon flic'd, and Rafpings of Bread j in thi^ 
Manner you ilew Eafterlings, Widgeons, or Teal. 

To boil civild Ducks. 

DRAW and trufs your wild Ducks, parboil them, and 
ha;f rcail them; then carve them, and fave their Gravv; 
put the Gravy in a Stew-pan with Pepper, flic'd Ginger, Par- 

O 4 flev. 



296 Tbe Lady's Compan ion. 

fley, and a good Store of Onions, a Quart of Claret, Barber- 
lies, large Mace, and wafh'd Currants ; boil all thefe toge- 
ther, fkim it clean, put in Butter and Sugar ; difh your Ducks 
in the Sauce, and ferve them up 

To hoi I a tame Duck. 

PARBOIL the Duck, chop an Onion and a Handful 
of Parfley together ; put them into a Stew-pan with 
ftrong Mutton-Broth, a Turnip cut and parboil'd till the 
Ranknefs is taken away, Endive> pick'd and wafn'd, and 
Barberries: Then put in Half a Pound of Butter, and a 
little Verju'ce : Boil ali together, ftirring it till it is enough ; 
and ferve it up with the Turnip, large Mace, Pepper, and a 
little Sugar. 

To drefs Ducks njjith Oli'ves, 

TAKE Ducks, and drefs them a h Braifs^ or roaft 
them ; then tofs fome M ulhrooms up in a Stew-pan, 
jind moiften them with Gravy, and bind it with a Cullis of 
Veal and Ham ; Then ftone fome Olives, and put them into 
fcaldirg Water, take them out, drain them, and put them 
into the Ragoo ; give them a Boil, difh your Ducks, pour 
the Ragoo over them, and ferve it up. 

To drefs Ducks 'with Sellery, 

FIRST drefs your Ducks a la Brai/e, then boil fome 
Sellery in Water and Salt, putting it in when the Water 
boils ; when it is a little more than half enough, take it out, 
drain it, tofs it up in a Stew-pan with fome thin Cullis of 
Veal and Ham ; and when it is enough, thicken it with a 
Bit of Butte,-, as big as a Walnut, workM up with a little 
Flour J keep moving it over the Fire, put in a few Drops of 
Vinegar, dilh your Ducks, put your Ragoo over them, and 
ferve them up. 

A Duck with Cardoons is drefs'd the fame Way ^ the 
Cardoons being done as we do Sellery. 

To hoil a Duck or Rabbit ivith Onions. 

BOIL your Duck or Rabbit in a good deal of Water, 
be fure to Ikim your Water, for there will always rife a 
Scum, which if it boils down will difcolour your Fowls, tjc 
They will take about half an Hour boiling ; for Sauce, your 
Onions muft be peePd, and throw them into Water as you 
peel them, then cut them into thin Slices, boil them in Milk 

and 



7/^^ L A D y's Co MP A N I ON, 297 

and Water, and fkim the Liquor. Half an Hour will boil 
them. Throw them into a clean Sieve to drain, put them in- 
to a Stew-pan, and chop them Irnall ; fhake in a little Flour, 
put to them two or three Spoonfuls of Cream, a good Piece 
of But er, ftew all together over the Fire till they are thick 
and fine ; lay the Duck or Rabbit in the Difh, and pour the 
Sauce all over. If a Rabbit, you mufl cut off the Head, 
and cut it in two, and lay it on each Side the Difh. 

Or you may make this Sauce for Change : Take one large 
Onion, cut it fmall. Half a Handful of Parfley clean wafhed 
and pick'd, chop it fmall, a Lettuce cut fmall, a Quarter of a 
Pint of good Gravy, a good Piece of Butter roll'd in a littlfr 
Flour ; add a little Juice of Lemon, a little Pepper and Salt, 
let all ftew together for half an Hour, then add two Spoon- 
fuls cf Red Wine ; this Sauce is mofl proper for a Duck ; lay 
your Duck in the Difli, and pour your Sauce over it. 

To drefs a Duck ^ith Green Teas, 

PUT a deep Stew-pan over the Fire, with a Piece of frefli 
Butter, fmge your Duck and jflour it, turn it in the Pan 
two or three Minutes, then pour out all the Fat, but let the 
Duck remain in the Pan ; put to it Half a Pint of good 
Gravy, a Pint of Peas, two Lettuces cut frnall, a fmall Bundle 
of fweet Flerbs, a little Pepper and Salt, cover them clofe, 
and let them flew for Half an Hour ; and then give the Pan 
a Shake ; when they are juft done, grate in a little Nutmeg, 
and put in a very little beaten Mace, and thicken either with 
a Piece of Butter rolled in Flour, or the Yolk of an Egg, 
beat up with two or three Spoonfuls of Cream ; fhake it all 
together for three or four Minutes ; take out the fweet Herbs, 
lay the Duck in the Difh, and pour the Sauce over it ; You 
may garnilh v/ith boil'd Mint chopp'd, or let it alone. 

To drefs a Duck ^ith Cucumbers. 

TAKE three or four Cucumbers, pare them, take oat 
the Seeds, cut them into little Pieces, lay them in 
Vinegar for two or three Hours before, with two large Onions 
peePd and flic'd, then do your Duck as above ; then take the 
Duck out, and put in the Cucumbers and Onions, firft drain 
them in a Cloth, let them be a litde brown, Ihake a little 
Flour over them, in the mean Time let your Duck be ftew- 
ing in aStewing-pan with Llalf a Pint of Gravy, for a Quarter 
of an Hour ; then add to it the Cucumbers and Onions, with 
Pepper and Salt to your Palate, a «:oud Piece of Butter rolled 

O 5 in 



29S The L A D y's C m p a n I o n, 

in Flour, and two or three Spoonfuls of Red Wine ; fiiake all 
together, and let it ftew together for eight cr ten Minutes, 
then t.ke up the Duck, and pour the Sauce over it. 

Or you may roaft your Duck, and make this Sauce, and 
pour over it, but then a Quarter of a Pint of Gravy will be 
enough. ' 

To drtfs- a Duck a la Brai/e. 

TA K E a Duck, lard it with little Pieces of Bacon, fea- 
fon it, infide and out, with Pepper and Salt, lay a. 
Layer of Bacon, cut thin, in the Bottom of the Stev/ pan, and 
then a Layer of lean Beef cat thin ; then lay on your Duck, 
%vith fome Carrot, an Onion, a little Bundle of fweet Herbs, 
a Blade or two of Mace, and lay a thin Layer of Beef over 
the Duck, cover it clofe, and fet it over a flow Fire for eight 
or ten Minutes ; then take off the Cover, and Ihake in a little 
Plour, give the Pan a Shake, pour in a Pint of frnall Broth or 
boiling Water ; give the Fan a Shake or two, cover it clofe 
again, and let it fievv Half an Hour ; then take oiF the Co- 
ver, take out the Duck, and keep it hot, let the Sauce boil till 
there is about a Quarter of a Pint or little better, then ftrain 
It, and put it into a Stew-pan again with a Glafs of Red Wine; 
put in your Duck, fnake the Pan, and let it Hew four or five 
Minutes, then lay your Duck in the Diih, and pour the Sauce 
over it, and garnifh witi^i Ltmon. If you love your Duck very 
iigh, you may fill it with the following Ingredients : Take 
a Veal Sweetbread cut in eight or ten- Pieces, a few Truifies, 
fome Oyfters, a little fweet Herbs and Parfley chopp'd fine, a 
little Pepper, Salt, and beaten Mace ; fill your Duck with the 
:above Ingredients, tie both Ends tight, and diefs as above ; 
cr you may fill it with Force-meat made thus : Take a little 
Piece of Veal, take ail the Skin and Fat off, beat it in a Mor- 
tar with as much Sewet, and an equal Quantity of Crumbs of 
Bread, a few fweet Herbs, fome Parfley chopp'd, a little Le» 
mon-peel, Pepper, Salt, beaten Mace and Nutmeg, and mix 
k up with the Yolk of an Egg. 

You may Hew an Ox's Palate tender, and cut it into Pieces, 
with fome Artichoak Bottoms cut in four, and tofs'd up in the 
Sauce ; you may lard the Duck, or let it alone, jufc as yci» 
pleafe. 

7o roaft a Sea-Duck. 

BASTE It as it is roafting with Butter and Salt, and 
make the Sauce for it with the Liver minc'd very fmall, 
and put into the Dripping, with Salt, Pepper, Jsuuneg, 
MuihrooHiS; and Juice of Orange, 



ne Lady's Companion. 299 

To drefs Ducks n.mth Oyflers. 

TAKE wild Ducks, trufs them, make a Ragoo with 
Veal Sweetbreads, Muflirooms, Truffles, and Oyfteis, 
feafon'd with fine Herbs, Gives, and Parfley ; when iu is al- 
moil ready, farce the Ducks with it; tie them up well, and 
roall them ; a little afterwards make a Muftiroom Cullis, fuch 
as is ufually made for Partridges, pour it upon them, and ferve 
them up hot for a Side-dilh. 

Or thus, 

DRESS your Ducks a la Braife j then tofs up Mufh- 
rooms and Truffles in melted Bacon, and moiften them 
with Gravy ; then bind it with a good Cullis of Veal and 
Ham ; then put fome Oyflers into a Stew-pan, give them 
three or four Turns in their own Liquor over the Fire, clean 
them well, and put them into the Ragoo, and fet it over the 
Fire again for a Moment or two, but let them not boil ; lay 
your Duck in the Difh, pour your Ragoo upon it, and fei-ve 
it up. 

To drefs a Duck nh-ith Succory. 

GE T a Duck, and drefs it a la Braife ; fcald your Suc- 
cory, fqueeze out the Water, give it two or three Cuts 
with a Knife, tofs it up in a Stew-pan wdth Gravy, thicken 
it with fome Cullis of Veal and Ham ; difli your Duck, pour 
the Ragoo over it, and ferve it up. 

To boil Ducks afier the French Manner, 
ET the Ducks be larded, fphted, and half roafted; then 
draw them, and put them into a Stev/-pan, as alfo a 
Quart of Claret Wine, fome Chefnuts, firlt roafted and peel'd, 
a Pint of great Oyfters, the Liquor fhrain'd, and the Beards 
taken off; three Onions minc'd very fmall, fome Mace, a 
little beaten Ginger, and a little Thyme llripp'd : Then puc 
in the Cruft of a French Roll grated, to thicken it, and fo difu 
it upon Sippets, with the Sauce pour'd over them : This may 
be diverfify'd. If there be llrong Broth, there need not be 
fo much Wine put into it ; and if there be no Oyflers, or 
Chefnuts, you may put in Artichoak Bottoms, Turnips, Cauli-- 
ilowers, Bacon ;n thi» Slices, Sweetbreads, crV. 



Ducks 



300 The Lady's Companiok. 

Ducks a la Braife nvlth turnips. 

GE T a Duck, and lard it with large Lardoons well Tea" 
fon'd ; take a Stew-pan of a conA'enient Size, and gar- 
nifh the Bottom of it with Bards of Bacon and Slices of Beef, 
to which add fome Onions, Carrots, and Parfnips flic'd, fome 
Slices of Lemon, fome favoury Herbs, Pepper, Salt, and 
Cloves ; then put in your Duck, cover it in the fame Manner 
as under it, and put Fire likewife under and over it. This is 
a Difh for the flrfl Courfe, which is ferv'd in feveral Manners. 
When it is with Turnips, they are to be cut in Dice, or round 
them in the Shape of Olives ; they mull be tofs'd up in Hog's' 
Lard, to give them a brown Colour j then fet them to drain, 
and, after that, put them to fimmer in good Gravy, and thicken 
them with a good CuUis. When the Duck is ready to be 
ferv'd up, drain it well, then lay it in the Difh, po^r u-pon it 
a Ragoo of Turnips, and ferve it hot. If you will be at the 
Charge of ftewing it a la Braife ; when you have larded your 
Duck, drudge it well with Flour, and tofs it up in melted 
Bacon to brown it ; then put it into a Pot and make a Brown, 
cither with melted Bacon, or Butter and Flour, to which put 
fome good Broth, and near a Pint of V/hite Wine, feafoning 
the Whole with Salt, Pepper, Cloves, Onions, Slices of Le- 
mon, Pariley, and favoury Herbs j fo fet the Duck to Hew, 
and when it is done, ferve it with the following Ragoo. 

It is made either with Veal or Lambs Sweetbreads, with 
fat Livers, Cocks-combs, Muflirooms, Truffles, Afparagus- 
Tops, and A rtichoak- Bottoms : Tofs up all this in melted 
Bacon, moiften it with good Gravy, bind it with a CuUis of 
Veal and Ham ; and when you have difh'd up your Duck, 
pour the Ragoo upon it. 

Ducks tongues. 

TA K E as many Ducks, or Geefe Tongues, as you can 
get J fifty Tongues will fill up a fmall Difh. Blanch 
them, put them in a Stew-pan over fome Slices of Bacon, 
with Onions cut in Slices, and fome Sprigs of fweet Bafil ; 
feafon it with Salt, Pepper, and fome Slices of Bacon, moiften 
5t with a Spoonful of Broth ; let it ftew together. The 
Tongues being done, drain them, and put them in fome Ef- 
fence of Harn, or an Italian Sauce ; put them, for a Minute, 
over the Fire to take a Relifh. Being ready to ferve, let your 
Tongues be relishing, and add the Juice of a Lemon ; ferve 
them up hot for a dainty Dilh. 

At 



Tht Lady's Companion. 301 

At another Time you may garnifh them with Mufhrooms* 
Truffles, Cocks-kidneys, and Cocks-combs, 

To farce a Duck. 

FARCE the Bread of your Duck with the Flefh of the 
Bread of a Capon, Beef-marrow minc'd fmall, and the 
Yolks of raw Eggs, feafon'd with Salt, Pepper, and a little 
Nutmeg ; then ftew the Duck a la Braife, and make a Ragoo 
of Sweetbreads of Veal, or Lamb, fat Livers, Cocks-combs, 
Truffles, Muihrooms, Artichoak-Bottoms, and Afparagus- 
Tops ; tofs up all thefe in melted Bacon, moillen it with 
Gravy ; thicken with a Cullis of Veal and Ham ; pour this 
Ragoo upon it, and ferve it up. 

A Cullis of Ducks. 

RO A S T a Duck, and pound it in a Mortar, then caufe 
fome Gammon to be fry'd brown, and put them into a 
Pot with a Handful of Lentiles ; feafon them with a Clove of 
Garlick, three or four Cloves, fome Cives and Savoury ; let 
them flew all together ; when they have ftew'd fome Time, 
pound them vvith the Flefh of the Duck, and tofs them up in 
a Stew-pan with melted Bacon ; put in fome Veal-Gravy to 
give it a pale Colour, and drain it for Ufe. 

Geefe larded and fonjed. 

HAVING trufs'd your Geefe clofe, lard one Side, put 
in the Bellies fome Sage and Onion chopp'd fmall, 
roird up with Eggs, Crumbs of Bread, Pepper, Salt, and But- 
ter ; then pafs them, and dove them gently in good Broth or 
Gravy till tender : Make a clean thick Lear, fqueeze in an 
Orange, and ferve hot. 

Green Geefe a la Daule, 

LARD your Green Geefe with large Lardoons, feafon 
with Salt, Pepper, Cloves, Nutmeg, Bay -leaf, Cives, 
Lemon-peel, and wrap them up in a Napkin ; boil them in 
Broth and White Wine ; when the Eroth is pretty well waded 
away, and you judge them to be enough, take them off, and 
fet them to cool in the Liquor in which they are boiPd ; then 
take them out, and ferve them dry on a clean Napkin, and 
garnifti with green Parfley : We fometimes boil with them 
fome Slices of Veal and Bards of Bacon, to drengthen them 
and keep them white. 

We drefs Turkies, Capons, Partridges, and Other Fowls in 
the fame Manner, 



302 Tht Lad y*s Companion-. 

To brJ m Goofe lAJith Cabbage or Sau/ages, 

SALT your Goofe two or three Days, then trufs it to 
boil ; cut Lardoons as big as the Top of your Finger, as 
much as will lard the Flelli of the Breafi, and feafon your 
Lardoons with Pepper, Mace, and Salt. Afterwards, fet all 
a boiling in Beef-broth, if you have any, or Water, feafoning 
your Liquor with a little Salt, Pepper groily beaten, an Ou ce 
or two, a Bundle of Bay-leaves, Rofemary, and Thyme, ty'd 
all together : In the mean while, having prepar'd your Cab- 
bage or Saufages boil'd very tender, fqueeze all the Water 
from them, put them into a Stew-pan, with a little ftroiig 
Broth or Claret Wine, and an Onion or two ; feafon it with 
Pepper, Salt, and Mace, to your Tafte; add fix Anchovies 
diflblv'd, and let all Hew a good while on the Fire : Put ia 
a La. leful of thick Butter, with a little Vinegar ; when your 
Goofe is boil'd enough, lay your Cabbage on Sippets of 
Bread, the Goofe on the Top of your Cabbage, and fome of 
the Cabbage on the Top of your Goofe. 

% hoil a Goofe, 

PUT it into a Pot with Water or flrong Broth ; let it 
boil, and Ikim it clean ; then put in Salt, Pepper, three 
or four flic'd Onions, and three or four Cloves, fome White 
Wine, Mace, Raifms, and Currants, a little grated Bread, and 
a Bundle of fweet Herbs : When it is done enough, difh it 
up on Sippets ; flalh it on the Breall, and garnifh with Slices- 
of Lemon and Barberries. 

Ta foufe a Goofe. 

BONE your Goofe, cut the Flelh fquare, lay it a keep- 
ing in White Wine, Salt, Pepper, Cloves and Mace,, 
for twelve Hours ; then take it out, and lay Pieces of An- 
chovies over it, and Wejlphalia Ham minc'd fmall ; then roll 
it up hard, and boil it in flrong Broth, and a little White 
Wine, whole Pepper, and fome Blades of Mace j put it in a 
Pan, let it ftand in this Liquor till you ufe it : When you 
ferve it, cut it inKalf, and garnifh the Dilh with minc'd Wefi- 
phalia Ham. 

To dry a Goofe. 

GET a fat Goofe, take a Handful of common Salt, a 
Quarter of an Ounce of Salt-petre, a Quarter of a Pound 
pf coarfe Sugar, aaj^c all together, and rub youj G^oie very 

%velL 



^he Lady*s Com panic k. 50 J 

well, let it lie in this Pickle a Fortnight, turning and rubbing 
it every Day, then roll it in Bran, and hang it up in a Chim- 
ney where Wood-fmoak is for a Week. If you have not that 
Conveniency fend it to the Baker's, the Snioak of the Oven 
will dry it, or you may hang it in your own Chimney, not 
too near the -Fire ; when it is well dry'd, keep it in a dry- 
Place ; you may keep it two or three Months, or more: When 
you boil it, put it in a good deal of Wateii, and be fure to 
ikim it well. 

Note, You may boil Turnips, or Cabbage boil'd andllew'd 
in Butter, or Onion-fauce. 

To drefi a Goofe ttv'//' Onions or Cabbage. 

SALT the Goofe for a Week, then boil it ; it will take 
an Hour ; you may either make Onion-fauce, as we do 
for Ducks, or Cabbage boil'd, chopped, and ftew'd in Butter 
wiih a little Pepper and Salt ; lay the Goofe in the Difli, and 
pour the Sauce over it. It eats very good with either.. 

Gqq{q a la Modi. 

TAKE two Geefc, and raife their Skins on the Breads, 
and making a Stuffing of Pullet, Chicken, or Veal 
Sweetbrea s, Mullirooms, Anchovies, Oyllers, Marrow, and 
a little Lemon-peel, a little Pepper, Salt, Nutmeg, Thyme, 
Marjoram, and a Clove of Garlick, mingle all thefe with the 
Yolk of an Egg ; put a little under the Skin on the Breails, 
and fome in their Bellies. Lard your Geefe with Lemon and 
Thyme, then put as much Butter in your Stew-pan as wiU 
brown them on both Sides ; then put them in the Butter with 
firong Gravy, feafon^d very high ; and when they are ftew'd 
enougl\. take them out ; thicken the Sauce with Butter roll'd 
tip in Flour, and the Yolks of Eggs, with Half a Pint of 
Claret, and let them boil to be thick ; then fry Oyfters and 
Force-meat EaUs, and crifp'd Sippets to lay round your Difh, 
and ferve it. Garnilli with grated Bread and Flowers round 
your Diiii. 

Another Way. 

TA K E a large fine Goofe, pick it clean, (kin it, and 
cut it down the Back, bone it » icely, take the Fat off, 
then take a dry'd Tongue, boil it, and peel it : Take a Fowl, 
and do it in the fame Manner as the Goofe, feafon it with 
Pepper, Salt, and beaten Mace, roll it round the Tongue, 
fipafon the Goofe vyith the faxne; put the Tongue and Fowl 



504 ^he Lady's Companion. 

in the Goofe, and few the Goofe up again in the fame Form 
it was before ; put it into a Stew-pan, put to it two Qjiarts of 
Beef-Gravy, a Bundle of fweet Herbs, and an Onion ; put 
feme Slices of Ham, or Bacon, between the Fowl and Goofe, 
cover it clofe, and let it flew an Hour over a good Fire : 
When it begins to boil, let it do very foftly, then take up 
your Goofe, and fkim off all the Fat, ftrain it, put in it a 
Glafs of Red Wine, two Spoonfuls of Catchup, a Veal Sweet- 
bread cut fmall, fome Truffles, Morels, and Mufhrooms, a 
Piece of Butter roU'd in Flour, and fome Pepper and Salt, if 
Ivanted ; put in the Goofe again, cover it clofe, and let it 
flew half an Hour longer, then take it up, and pour the Ra^ 
goo over it. Garnilh with Lemon. 

You mull mind to fave the Bones of the Goofe and Fowl, 
and put them into the Gravy when it is firft fet on, and it will 
be belter if you roll fome Beef-marrow between the Tongue 
and Fowl, and between the Fowl and Goofe, it will make 
them mellow, and eat fine You may add fix or feven Yolks 
of hard Eggs whole in the Difh ; they are a pretty Addition* 

7o boil Gibblets. 

PI C K and fcald your Gibblets clean, boil them in Water 
and Salt, with two or three Blades of Mace, and ferve 
them up on Sippets, with melted Butter, fcalded Grapes, or 
Goofeberries, Barberries, and flic'd Lemon. 

To fienx) Gibblets. 

LET them be fcalded and pick'd, break the two Pinion- 
bones in two, cut the Head in two, and cut off the 
Nollrils ; cut the Liver in two, the Gizzard in four, the Neck 
in two ; flip off the Skin of the Neck, and make a Pudding 
with two hard Eggs chopp'd fine, the Crti:i b of a French Roil 
fleep'd in hot Milk two or three Hours ; then mix it with the 
hard Egg, a little Nutmeg, Pepper, Salt, and a little Sage 
chopp'd fine, a very little melted Butter, llir it together, tie 
one End of the Skin, and fill it with the Ingredients, tie the 
Other End tight, and put all together into a Stew-pan, with a 
Quart of good Mutton -Broth, a Bundle of fweet Herbs, an 
Onion, fome whole Pepper, Mace, tv/o or three Cloves ty'd 
up loofe in a Muflin Rag, a very little Piece of Lemon peel ; 
cover them clofe, and let them ilew till quite tender ; then 
take a fir^all French Roll toaLied brown on all Sides, and put 
it into the Stew pan, give it a Shake, and let it flew till there 
is jull Gravy enough to eat with ;hein ; then take out the 

Onion, 



The Lady's Companion. 505 

Onicm, fweet Herbs, and Spice ; lay the Roll in the Middle, 
the Gibblets round, the Pudding cut into Slices and lay round, 
then pour the Sauce over ail. 

Another Way. 

TAKE the Gibblets clean pick'd and wafli'd, the Feet 
fkinn'd, and Bill cut oiF, the Head cut in two, the 
Pinion-bones broke into two, the Liver cut in two, the Giz- 
zard cut into four, the Pipe pull'd out of the Neck, and the 
Neck cut in two ; put them into a Pipkin with Half a Pint 
of Water, fome whole Pepper, Black and White, a Blade of 
Mace, a little Sprig of Thyme, a fmall Onion, a little Crull 
of Bread, cover them, clofe, and fet them on a very flow Fire. 
Wood Embers is beft. Let them ftew till they are quite 
tender ; then take out the Herbs and Onion, and pour them 
into a little Diih. Seafon them with Salt. 

Another Way, 

WHEN you have parboil'd your Gibblets, then tofs 
them up in a Stew-pan, as a Fricafey of Chickens ; 
then fet them over a gentle Fire in a Stew-pan, with good 
llrong Broth ; cover it clofe, and let them ftew till Half the 
Broth is confum'd ; in the mean Time fet a Couple of French 
Rolls to fimmer in ftrong Broth, and place them in the Mid- 
dle of the Difh, lay your Gibblets round and upon them ; pour 
Mutton-Gravy upon them, and ferve them up hot. 

To roajl Pigeons. 

FILL them with Parfley clean walh'd and chopp'd. Pep- 
per and Salt roU'd in Butter ; fill the Bellies, tie the 
Neck-end clofe, fo that nothing can run out ; put a Skewer 
through the Legs, and have a little Iron on Purpofe, with fix 
Hooks to it, on each Hook hang a Pigeon, fallen one End of 
a String to the Chimney, and the other End to the Iron (this 
is what we call the poor Man's Spit) flour them, and bafte 
them with Butter, turn them gently for fear of hitting the 
Bars, they will roalt nicely, and be full of Gravy : Take 
care that you do not lofe any of the Liquor ; you may melt 
a very little Butter and put into the Difli ; your 1 igeons 
ought to be quite frefli, and not too much done ; this is by 
much the beil Way of doing them, for then they will fwim 
in their own Gravy, and a very little melted Butter will do. 

When you road them on a Spit all the Gravy runs out, or 
if you fluff them, and broil them whole, you cannot fave the 

Gravy 



3o6 ^he Lab y 's C o m p a n i o rr.V 

Gravy fo well, tho' they will be very good with Parlley and 
Butter in the Difh, or fplit and broird with Pepper and Salt, 

To boil Pigeons. 

BOIL them by themfelves for fifteen Minutes, then boil 
a handfome fquare Piece of Bacon and lay in the Mid- 
dle ; Hew feme Spinach to lay round, and lay the Pigeons on 
the Spinach. Garniih your Difh with Parley laid in a Plate 
before the Fire to crifp. Or you may lay one Pigeon in the 
Middle, and the reft round, and the Spinach between each 
Pigeon, and a Slice of Bacon on each Pigeon. Garnifh with 
Slices of Bacon, and melted Butter in a Cup. 

To a la Daube Pigeons, 

TA K E a large Stew-pan, lay a Layer of Eacon, then 
a Layer of Veal, a Layer of coarfe Beef, and another 
little Layer of Veal, about a Pound of Veal, and a Pound of 
Beef cut very thin ; a Piece of Carrot, a Bundle of fweet 
Herbs, an Onion, fome Black and White Pepper, a Blade or 
tvy'o of Mace, four or five Cloves, a little Cruft of Bread 
toafted very brown ; cover the Stew-pan ciofe, fet it over a 
flow Fire for five or fix Minutes, fhake in it a little Flour j 
then pour in a Quart of boiling Water, Ihake it round, cover 
it cloie, and let it flew till the Gravy is quite rich and good, 
then ftrain it off, and fkim off all the Fat. In the mean 
Time fluff the Bellies of the Pigeons with Force-meat made 
thus : Take a Pound of Veal, a Pound of Beef-fewet, beat 
both in a Mortar fine, an equal Quantity of Crrmbs of Bread, 
fome Pepper, Salt, Nutmeg, beaten Mace, a little Lemon- 
peel cut fmall, fome Parlley cut fmall, and a very little Thyme 
ilripp'd, mix all together with the Yolk of an Egg, fill the 
Pigeons, and flat the Breaft down, flour them, and fry them 
in frefli Butter a little brown ; then pour all the Fat clean 
©ut of the Pan, and put to the Pigeons the Gravy, cover 
them clofe, and let them ftew a Quarter of an Hour, or till 
you think they are quite enough ; then take them up, lay 
them in a Dilh, and pour in yeur Sauce on each Pigeon, lay 
a Bay -leaf, and on the Leaf a Slice of Eacon. You may 
garnifh with a Lemon notched, or let it alone. 

Note^ You may leave out the Stuffing, they will be very 
rich and good without it, and it is the befl Way of dreffing 
them for a fine made Diih. 



Pigeons 



The L A D y's C o m p a n I c h. 307 

Pigeons au Pcir, 

MA K E a good Force-meat as before, cut ofF the Feet 
quite, ftuiFthem in the Shape of a Pear, roll them in 
the Yolk of an Egg, and then in Crumbs of Bread, iHck the 
Leg at the Top, and butter a Difti to lay them in ; then fend 
them to an Oven to bake, but don't let them touch each 
other; when they are enough, lay them in a Dilh, and pour 
good Gravy thickened with the Yolk of an Egg, or Butter 
roird in Flour ; don't pour your Gravy over the Pigeons. 
You may garnifli with Lemon. It is a pretty genteel Difh v 
Or, for Change, lay one Pigeon in the Middle, the reft rounds 
and ftew'd Spinach betv.'een ; poach'd Eggs on the Spinach,. 
Garnifn with notched Lemon and Orange cut into Quarters^ 
and have melted Butter in Bafons.. 

Pigeons Jioved. 

TA K E a fmall Cabbage Lettuce, juft cut cut the Hearty 
and make a Force meat as before, only chop the Heart 
of the Cabbage and mix with it ; fill up the Place you took 
out, and tie it acrofs with a Packthread ; fry it of a light 
Brown in freOi Butter, pour out all the Fat, lay the Pigeons 
round, flat them with your Hand, feafon them a little with 
Pepper, Salt, and beaten Mace (take great Care not to put 
too much Salt) pour in Half a Pint of White Wine, cover it 
clofe, and let it ftew about five or fix Mmutes ; then put in 
Half a Pint of good Gravy, cover them clofe, and let them 
ftew Half an Hour. Take a good Piece of Butter roU'd in 
Flour, fhake it in ; when it is fine and thick take it up, untie, 
it, lay the Lettuce in the Middle, and the Pigeons round ; 
fqueeze in a little Lemon-juice, and pour the Sauce all over 
them. Stew a little Lettuce, and cut it into Pieces for Gar- 
nilh, with pickled red Cabbage. 

Note, Or for Change you may ftiiif your Pigeons with the 
fame Force-meat, and cut two Cabbage Lettuces into Quar- 
ters, and ftew as above ; fo lay the Lettuces between each 
Pigeon, and one in the Middle^ with Lettuce round it, and. 
pour the Sauce all over them. 

Pigeons furioui^ 

FORCE your Pigeons as above, then lay a Slice of Ba- 
con on the Breaft, .ind a Slice of Veal beat with the 
Back of a Knife, and feafon'd with Mace, Pepper, and Salt, 

tie 



3o8 The L a d y*s Companion; 

tie it on with a fmall Packthread, or two little fine Skewers 
is better; fpit them on a fine Bird-fpit, roaft them, and bafte 
with a Piece of Butter, then with the Yolk of an Egg,, and 
then bafte them with Crumbs of Bread, a little Nutmeg and 
fweet Herbs ; when enough, lay them in your Difh, have 
good Gravy ready, with Truffles, Morels, and Mufhrooms, ta 
pour into your Difli. Garnifli with Lemon. 

Pigeons a la Crepoaudtne. 

WHEN you have pick'd and gutted your Pigeons, 
trufs them with their Leg;s within their Bodies ; then 
cut up the Breaft, and throw the fame over their Heads, 
and beat them flat; put them in a Stew-pan with melted Ba- 
con, or Putter, foine Parfley, green Onions, Pepper, Sa t, and 
fweet Herbs ; put all over the Fire to make it have a Tafte ; 
then ftrew then with fine CnuTibs of Bread, and let them be 
broird, and ferve them up with Gravy, a Shalot cut fmall. or 
green Cnio'-s, and the Juice of a Lemon over them, and 
ferve them up hot for an Entry. 

Pigeons en Compote, 

FIRST pull and draw your Pigeens, trufs them hand- 
fomely, the Legs in the Bodies, and parboil them ; then 
lard them with large Lardoons, feafon'd with Salt, Herbs, 
Pepper, Spices, minc'd Gives and Parfley, and ftew them a 
la B'^aife. While they are a Hewing, make a Ragoo of 
Cocks-combs, Fowls Livers, Truffles, and Mufhrooms. tof- 
iing them up in a little melted Bacon, then moiften your Ra- 
goo with Gravy, {et it to fimmer over a gentle Fire, take ofF 
the Fat, and thicken it with a CuUis of Veal ard Ham, 
Take up your Pigeons, and drain them, then rut them into 
the Ragoo, and let them fimmer in it to give them the Tafle 
of it: Lay them in a Difh, pour the Ragoo upon them, and 
ferve them for the iirft Courfe. 

Pigeons en Compote, nvtth nvhite Sauce. 

LE T your Pigeons be drawn, pick'd, fcalded, and flea'd; 
then put them into a Stew-pan with a little melted Ba- 
con, Veal Sweetbreads, Cocks-combs, Mufhrooms, Truffles, 
Morels, Pepper, and Salt ; after they have ftew'd a little put 
in a Pint of thin Gravy, a Bundle of fweet Herbs, an Onion, 
and a Blade or two of Mace ; cover them clofe, let them 
ftew Half an Hour, then take out the Herbs and Onion, then 
beat up the Yolks of two or three Eggs, and fome chopp'd 

Parfley, 



^be Lady's Companion. ^o<> 

Parfley, in a Quarter of a Pint of Cream, and a little Nutmegs 
mix all together^ flir it one Way till thick ; lay the Pigeons 
m the Difli, and the Sa ce all over. Garniih with Lemon. 

J PuptoJi of Pigeons. 

TAKE favoury Force-meat roll'd out like Pafle, put ie 
in a buttered Difi), lay a Layer of very thin Bacon, 
fquab Pigeons Diced, a Sweetbread, Afparagus-Tops, Muih- 
rooms. Cocks-combs, a Palate boiled tender, and cut intq 
Pieces, and the Yolks of hard P^ggs ; make another Force- 
meat, and lay over like a Pye ; bake it, and when enough^ 
turn it into a Difh, and pour Gravy in it. 

Pigeons boiled ijoith Rice. 

TA K E fix Pigeons, llufF their Bellies v»ith Parfiey, Pep» 
per and Salt rolPd in a very little Piece of Butter ; put 
them into a Quart of IVIutton- Broth, with a little beaten 
Mace, a Bundle of iweet Herbs, and an Onion ; cover them 
clofe, and let them boil a full Quarter of an Hour; then take 
out the Onion and fweet Herbs, and take a good Piece of 
Butter rolled in Flour ; put it in, and give it a Shake, feafon 
it with Salt, if it wants it ; then have ready Half a Pound of 
Rice boiled tender in Milk ; when it begins to be thick, (but 
take great Care it don't burnt too) take the Yolks of tv/o or 
three Eggs, beat up with two or three Spoonfuls of Cream 
and a little Nutmeg ; llir it together till it is quite thick ; 
then take up the Pigeons, and lay them in a Difh ; pour the 
Gravy to the Rice ; ftir all together, and pour over the Pi- 
geons. Garnifh with hard Eggs cut into Quarters. 

Pigeons tranfmogrijied. 

TAKE your Pigeons, feafon them with Pepper and 
Salt, take a large Piece of Butter, make a PuiF-paile, 
and roll each Pigeon in a Piece of Parte ; tie them in a Cloth, 
io that the Pafte don't break j boil them in a good deal of 
Water. They will take an Hour and Half boiling ; untie 
them carefully that they don't break ; lay them in the Difh, 
and you may pour a little good Gravy in the Difh. They 
will eat exceeding good and nice, and will yield Sauce 
enough of a very agreeable Relifh. 



Pigeons 



3IO ^s Lady's Companion. 

Pigeons Fricandoes, 

AFTER having trufs'd your Pigeons, with their Legs iit 
their Bodies, divide them in two, and lard them witk 
Bacon ; then lay them in a Stew-pan with the larded Side 
downwards, and two whole Leeks cut fmali, a Couple of 
Ladlefuls of Mutton-Broth, or Yeal-Gravy ; cover them 
clofe over a flow Fire, and when they are enough, make 
your Fire very brifk, to walle away what Liquor remains ; 
when they are of a ftne Brown take them up, and pour out 
all the Fat that is left in the Pan ; then pour in fome good 
Broth or Veal Gravy to loofen what ilicks to the Pan, and a 
little Pepper ; ftir it about for two or three Minutes, and pour 
it over the Pigeons. This is a pretty little Side-diih.. 

To roajl Pigeons n.vxth a Fares. 

MAKE a Farce with the Livers minc'd fmaU, as much 
fv^eet Sewet or Marrow, grated Bread, and hard Egg, 
an equal Quantity of each ; feaion \v\xkv beaten Mace, Nut- 
meg, a little Pepper, Salt, and a little fweet Herbs ; mix all 
theie together with the Yolk of an Egg, then cut the Skin of 
your Pigeon between the Legs and the Body, and very care- 
fully v/ith your Fingers raife the Skin from the Flefh, but 
take care you don't break it ; then force them with this Farce 
between the Skin and the Flefh ; then trufs the Legs clofe 
to keep it in ; fpit them and roafl them, drudge them with a 
little Flour, and balle them v/itk a Piece of Butter ; fave the 
Gravy which runs from thexii, and mix it up with a little 
Red Wine, a little of the Farce-meat, and fome Nutmeg ; let 
it boil, then thicken it with a Piece of Butter rolPd in flour, 
and the Yolk of an Egg beat up, and fome minc'd Lemon ; 
when enough, lay the Pigeons in the Difh, and pour in the 
Sauce. Garnifn with Lemon. 

To dref Pigeons a SoklL 

FIRST flew your Pigeons in a very little Gravy till 
enough, and take di/Ferent Sorts of Flefh, according to 
your Fancy, i^c. both of Butchers Meat and Fowl ; chop it 
fmall, feafon it with beaten Mace, Cloves, Pepper, and Salt, 
and beat it in a Mortar till it is like Pafte ; roll your Pigeons 
in it, then roll them in the Yolk of an Egg ; fhake Flour 
and Crumbs of Bread thick all over ; have ready fome Beef- 
Drippmg or Hog's-Lard boiling; fry them brown, and lay 
them in your Diih. Garnifh with fry'd Parfley. 

Pigeons 



fke L A D y's C O M P A N I M. ^11 

Pigeons in a Hole. 

TAKE your Pigeons, feafon them with beaten Mace, 
Pepper, and Salt ; put a little Piece of Butter in the 
Belly, lay them in a Diili, and pour a light Batter all over 
them, made with a Quart of Milk and Eggs, and four or 
five Spoonfuls of Flour ; bake it, and fend it to Table. It 
is a good Dilh. 

Pigeons in Fimlico. 

TAKE the Livers, with fome Fat and Lean of Ham 
or Bacon, Mufhrooms, TrufHes, Parfley, and fweet 
Herbs ; feafon with beaten Mace, Pepper, and Salt ; beat ali 
this together with two raw Eggs, put it into the Bellies, roll 
them in a thin Slice of Veal, over that a thin Slice of Bacon ; 
wrap them up in white Paper, fpit them on a fmall Spit, and 
roalt them : In the mean 'l'ime,'make for them a Ragoo of 
Truffles and Mufhrooms chopped fmall, with Parfley cut 
fmall ; put to it Half a Pint of good Veal Gravy, thicken'd 
A\'ith a Piece of Butter roll'd in Flour; an Hour will do vour 
Pigeons ; bafte them: When enough, lay them in yourDifh, 
take off the Paper, and pour your Sauce over them. Garnifh 
with Patties made thus : Take Veal and cold Ham, Beef- 
fewet, an equal Quantity, fome Pviufnrooms, fweet Herbs, and 
Spice ; chop them fm.all, {tt them on the Fire, and moiften 
ivith Milk or Cream ; then make a little Putf-palle, roll, aud 
make little Patties about an Lich deep, and two Inches lone- ; 
i>ll them with the above Ingredients, cover them clofe, and 
bake them. ; lay fix of them round a Difh. This makes a 
fine Difn for a firil Courfe. 

^To jugg Pigeons. 

PULL, crop, and draw Pigeons, but don't wafli them ; 
fave the Livers, and put them in fcalding V/ater, and fee 
them on the Fire for a Minute or two ; then take them out, 
and mince them fmall, /and bruife them with the Back of a 
Spoon; mix with them a little Pepper, Salt, grated Nutmeg, 
and Lemon-peel fnred very fine, chopped Parfley, and two 
Yolks of Eggs very hard ; bruife them as you would do the 
Liver, and put as much Sewet as Liver fhaved exceeding 
£ne, and as much grated Bread ; work thefe together with raw 
Eggs, and roll it in freih Butter ; put a Piece into the Crops 
and Bellies, and few upr the Necks and Vent ; then dip your 
Pigeons in Water, and feafon them with Pepper and Salt as 
i* .* lor 



312 The Lady's Companion, 

for a Pic ; then put in your Jugg, with a Piece of Sellery, 
Hop them clofe, and fet them in a Kettle of cold Water ; firft. 
cover them clofe, and lay aTile on the Top of the Jugg, and 
let it boil three Hours ; then take them out of the Jugg, and 
lay them in a Difh, take out the Sellery, and put in a Piece 
of Butter, rolled in Flour ; fhake it about till it is thick, and 
pour it on your Pigeons. Garnilli with Lemon. 

To fitnxi Pigeons. 

SEASON your Pigeons with Pepper, Salt, Cloves, Mace, 
and fome fv;eet Herbs ; wrap this Seafoning up in a Piece 
of Butter, and put in their Bellies ; then tie up the Neck and 
Vent, and half roall them ; then put them into a Stew-pan, 
with a Quart of good Gravy, a little White Wine, fome 
pickled Muflirooms, a few Pepper-corns, three or four Blades 
of Mace, a Bit of Lemon peel, a Bunch of fweet Herbs, a 
Bit of Onion, and fome Oyfters pickled ; let them ftew till 
they are enough, then thicken it up with Butter and Volks of 
Eggs. Garmfh with Lemon. 

Do Ducks the fame Way. You may put Force-meat into 
their Bellies, or into both. 

Another Way, 

STUFF them with Forc'd-meat, then fry them in But- 
ter till they are brown, then drain the Butter from them, 
and put boiling Water to them, with Gravy-Beef, and Sea- 
foning, and let them flew over a flow Fire ; when they are 
tender, ftrain off the Liquor, and thicken it with the Yolk of 
an Egg, and put to it a little Walnut-pickle : Garnifh with 
Lemon, and thin Slices of Bacon. 

Another Way, 

TAKE fix Pigeons, with four butter'd Eggs, fome 
grated Bread, with fome Salt, Nutmeg and Pepper, 
a little Mace, and fome fweet Herbs ; mix this all together, 
and put it in the Bellies of the Pigeons ; few them tp Top 
and Bottom ; ftew them in flrong Broth, with Half a 
Pint of White Wine ; then put a little Bundle of fweet 
Herbs, and a Bit of Lemon-peel and an Onion : When 
they are a] moil done, put in fome Artichoak-Bottoms 
boil'd and fry'd in brown Butter, or Afparagus-Tops boil- 
ed ; thicken up the Liquor with the Stuffing out of the 

Pigeons, 



The L A D Y*s Companion, 313 

l*igeons, and a Bit of Butter rolled in Flour ; flrain the 
Sauce ; garnilh the Diih with Diced Lemon and thin Bits of 
Bacon toalted before the Fire. 

Another Way. 

ME L T a good Quantity of Butter, mingle it with Parf- 
ley, Sorrel, and Spinach, chopped fmall, which you 
muft rtew in fome Butter ; and, when it is cold, put it into 
fome of their Ciaws with a Bay-leaf; fave fome of it for 
Sauce : Then flew the Pigeons in as much ftrong Gravy as 
will cover them, Vvdth fome Cloves, Mace, Salt, Pepper, and 
Winter favoury, a little Lemon-peel, a Shalot or two ,• then 
brown fome Butter and put in ; and when they are flewed 
cnough, put in a little Bit of Butter rolled up in Flour, and 
the Yolk of an Egg, v/ith fome of the Herbs you left out j 
Ihakc it up all together, and ferve away hot. 

Another Way, 

GE T young Pigeons and parboil them j then chop fome 
raw Bacon very fm.all, with a little Parlley, a little 
fweet Marjoram, or fweet Bafil, and a fmall Onion ; feafon 
this with Salt and Pepper, and fill the Bodies of the Pigeons 
with it. When this is done, ilew the Pigeons in Gravy, or 
llrong Broth, with an Onion lluck with Cloves, a little Ver- 
juice and Salt ; when they are enough, take them out of the 
Liquor, and dip them in Eggs that have been well beaten ; 
and, after that, roll them in grated Bread, that the/ may bs 
covered with it. Then make fome Lard v^xy hot, and fry 
them in it till they are brown, and ferve them up with fome 
of the Liquor they were itew'd in, and fry'd Parfley. 

Another Way. 

TAKE fix Pigeons, and take out the Livers, Gizzards, 
and Hearts, then cut the Pinions at the firll Joint, and'' 
flew your Pigeons gently, putting Pepper and Salt into the 
Bellies ; then cut a Quarter of a Pound of Bacon in thin 
Slices, and put it into a Stew-pan, and fry it crifp, then take 
it out, and fet it before the Fire i then flour the Pigeons I'ery 
well, and fry them in the Bacon Liquor till they ^re brown , 
adding to it a Bit of Butter ; then take out your Pigeons and 
wipe your Pan, and ftew them in their lirll Liquor, adding to 
Vol. L P it 



^14 ^he Lady's Companion. 

it fome good Gravy, till they are quite tender ; then take 
Sellery, and boil it tender, and drain it out of the Water, and 
after you have cut it into Bits, let it flew with your Pigeons ; 
and, wh"en it has flew'd enough, roll up fome Butter in Flour, 
and make it of a good Thicknefs, and dilh your Pigeons, and 
garnilh with the Bacon and flic'd Lemon. Some put in French 
Seans inltead of Sellery. 

Pigeons a la Braife, 

PICK, gut, and trufs large Pigeons, lard them with thick 
Bacon well feafon'd ; then take a Stew-pan, and garniih 
it with Slices of Bacon, Veal, and Onions* place in it your 
Pigeons, and feafon them with Pepper, Salt, fine Spices, and 
fweet Herbs, and cover them under and over, and let them 
flew ; being ftevved, let them drain : Keep your Ragoo ready 
made with Sweetbreads of Veal, Truffles, and Champignons ; 
your Sweetbreads of Veal being blanched, put them into the 
Stew-pan, together with your TrufHes and Champignons, 
adding to them a Ladleful of Gravy, and a little Cullis, and 
let it flew. All being done, and of a good Tafte, difh up 
your Pigeons, pour your Ragoo over them, and ferve them 
up hot for an Entry. 

^0 drefs Pigeons fvcith fweet Bnfil. 

YOUR Pigeons being well fcalded, flit them a little on 
the Back -, then make a fmall Farce of raw Bacon, 
minced fmall, with fvveet Bafil and Chibbol well feafoned ; 
put this into the Slit in your Pigeons, and put them into a 
Stew-pan with good Broth, a little Salt, Verjuice, and an 
Onion {luck with Cloves ; then take them out, roll them in 
beaten Eggs, drudge them well with grated Bread, fry them 
brown in hot Lard, then fry them again with Parfley, with 
which you mufl garnifli them ; when you ferve them up, 
they will ferve for a Side-difh. 

7«7 fry Pigeons. 

BLANCH them, then cut them in two, beat them flat, 
and put them in a Stew-pan with Onions, Parfley, 
Pepper, Salt, Cloves, Bafil, a Piece of Butter, a Ladleful of 
Broth, or the Liquor they were blanched in, and fome Vine- 
gar ; all thefe having flawed a little while, take them out and 
«iip them in Whites of Eggs, and then in Flour, and fry them 

immc- 



ne Lady's Companion," 315 

immediately ; difh them handfomely, and pour over them the 
Liquor they were flewed in, after being llrained. Garnifh 
with fry'd Farfley. 

Pigeons au Gratin. 

TAKE young Pigeons picked dry, blanch them over 
a Charcoal Fire, then pick them very clean ; and wilen 
they are well picked, fplit them in the Back ; then take the 
Livers, which you mince with fcraped Bacon, Parfley, green 
Onions, Champignons, and Truffies, feafoned with Pepper, 
Salt, £ne Spice, and fweet Herbs ; but all moderately : Then 
put in a Difh Slices of Bacon, of Veal, and of Ham ; after 
that place in it your Pigeons, and your Forced-meat, men- 
tioned before, in their Bellies ; and lay over each Pigeon a 
fmall Slice of Ham and Veal : There is no need to put 
Seafoning, by reafon of the Ham : Cover them with another 
Difh, Half as fmall again as the other, and take a white 
Napkin moiften'd, which put all round the Difh, to hinder 
it from taking Vent; then put it a flewing over a fmall Stove ; 
it being done, difh it up with EfTenceof Ham in another Difn^ 
and ferve it up hot for a fmall Entry, or Hors d' Oeuvre. 

Another Way of drcjjlng Pigeons au Gratirt. 

GE T fome Pigeons as above, pick and order them very 
clean j put fbme Slices of Bacon and Veal in a Stew- 
pan ; alfo fome Slices of Ham and Onions; then place in 
your Pigeons : Make a fmall Seafoning with Parlley, fcraped 
Bacon, green Onions, Salt, fweet Herbs, fome fat Liver, 
Champignons, and TrufRes ; the Whole being well minced 
together, put it in the Bellies of your Pigeons, and let the 
Seafoning be as it fhould, but take care not to m.ake it too 
fait ; then cover it with a Layer of Veal and Slices of Ba- 
con; and when they are done, make a little Cullis of Par^ 
tridges, which you mull put into your Difh about the Breadth 
of two Fingers deep; then put your Pigeons into it, and fo 
put your Difh upon a Stove, to make them iiick to the Bot- 
, torn of it ; keep the Border of your Difh clean ; then put in 
it a little EfTence of Ham, or elfe an Italian Sauce, and ferve 
up hot. 

To hroil Pigeons nvhale. 

SEASON and fluff them with the fame Stuffing as jugg'ti 
Pigeons ; broil them, or put them in an Oven ; wher; 
they are enough, take the Gravy from them, and take oft" 
the Fat j then put to the Gravy two or three Spoonfuls of 

P 2 * Water, 



n ^i6 Wf Lad y's Com p A N ION. 

i Water, a little boiPd Parfley fhred ; then thicken your Sauce. 
Garnilh your Difh with crilp Pariley. 

Another Way. 

SLIT them down the Back, fprinkle them with Salt and 
Pepper, lay them on the Gridiron, broil them gently, 
' turning them often ; balle them with Red Wine ; make a 
Sauce of frelh Butter, a Shalot, and the Juice of Lemons, 
and fo ferve them up hot. 

^0 drefi Pigeons nxith Fennel. 

AFTER having Pigeons of the bell: Sort, trufs them, 
and only fmge them before the Fire ; then take their 
Livers, with fome Bacon, Cive?, Pariley, and Fennel, and 
mince them fmall ; feafon them with Salt, Pepper, and Nut- 
meg; fluff the Bodies of your Pigeons with this Farce, and 
roaft them, and ferve them up to Table with a good Ragoo 
pour'd over them. 

To hoil Pigeons ^Ith Capers and Samphire. 

AFTER your Pigeons are trufs'd, put them into a Stew- 
pan with fome Broth, or for Want of it, warm Water, 
White Wine, and a Bundle of fweet Herbs ; when ftew'd 
enough, take them out ; then take fome of the Liquor, and 
put into a Stew-pan, with fome minced Capers and Lemons 
iliced, and a Piece of Butter ; let all ftew together a little 
while, and pour over them j then lay upon them fome thin 
Slices of Bacon fry'd crifp, and fome Samphire wafhed from 
the Salt, and Slices of Lemon ; garnilh the Dilh with the 
lame. 

Another Way. 

WHEN you have drawn, and trufs'd them up, break 
the Bre'aft-bone, and lay them in Milk and Water to 
make them white ; tie them in a Cloth, and boil them in 
Milk and Water : When you difli them up, put to them a 
white fricafey Sauce, only adding a few flired Mufhrooms. 
Garnilh with crifp Pariley and fry'd Sippets. 

7b drefs Pigeons a la Saifigaraz. 

ROAST them, but firft lard them ; in the mean Time, 
cut Slices of Gammon of Bacon, beat them well, put 
them in a Stew-pan, tofs them up with melted Bacon and a 
little Flour ; put in fome good Gravy without Salt, and a 

Faggot 



The Lady's Companion, giy 

.Faggot of fweet Herbs : When thefe have fimmer'd a-while, 
put in a little Vinegar, and fome good Cull is to bind it .; 
quarter your Pigeons, difti them, take the Fat ofF, lay the 
Slices of Bacon on the Pigeons, pour the Sauce upon them , 
and ferve them. 

A Bifque cf Pigeons, 

PARBOIL them, then put them into llrong Broth, and 
let them Itevv j make for them a Ragoo, with Gravy, 
Artichoke-Bottoms, Potatoes, and Onions, feafon with la 
voury Seafoning, Lemon-juice, and dry'd Lemon, andBacou 
cut as for Larding, Mufhrooms, Truffles, and Morels ; pour 
the Broth the Pigeons were Hewed in into a Diih, having puL 
carved and dry'd Sippets at the Bottom, then place the Pi- 
geons, and pour over them the Ragoo, with a Pint of hot 
Cream ; gamilh with fcalded Parlley, Beet-roots, and Lt- 
mon. 

7a drefs Pigeons a la Sainte Menehout. 

}^ IRS T get large Pigeons, then trufs them, divide them 
/ into two, and lard them with large Lardoons of Bacon 
well feafon'd ; cut Slices of Bacon, and alfo of Veal, or Beef ; 
feafon them with Salt, Pepper, Spices, fweet Herbs, Cives, 
and Parfley, Ihred fmall, and lay your Slices of Bacon over 
the Bottom of a Stew-pan, lay Slices of Veal upon them, and 
fome Onions and Carrots iliced. Then lay in your Pigeons, 
lay on them the fame Seafoning that you did under them ; 
lay Slices of Veal over your Sealbning, and Slices of Bacon 
over your Veal. Cover your Stew-pan clofe, and fet them -to 
llevv a la Braife^ (i. e.) with Fire both over them and under 
them : When they are about half itew'd, moillen them with 
a Pint of Milk, and a Couple of Spoonfuls of good Broth, and 
let them Hew till they are enough ; then take them off the 
Fire, fet them by till they are cold, letting them Hand in their 
own Liquor; then take them up, and drain them, .then dip 
them in beaten Eggs, and drudge them well with Crumbs of 
Bread, and fry them brown in Hog's Lard, and ferve them up 
hot. 

If you would have them broil'd, then dip them in the Fat 
'in which they were Hewed, and drudge them well with grated 
Bread, and lay them on a Gridiron, and broil them, and 
ferve them up with a Ramolade made of Oil, Salt, Pepper, 
Anchovies, and a little Muilard mingled well together, with 
a little Cives and Parfley, ihred fmall, and the Juice of a 
Lemon. 

P3 Yoa 



fS 5'i^i? Lad v's Com p A N I o N. 

Vou may ferve them up cold without being either fry'd or 
broil'd, in Plates or little Difhes. 

7o drefs Pigeons a la Tartare, ^vith cold Sauce, 

WHEN'you have fmged your Pigeons, and trufs'd 
them as for boiling, flat them with a Cleaver as thin 
as you can, v.^ithout breaking the Skin on the Backs or 
Breafls-; then feafon them pretty well with Salt, Pepper, and 
Cloves, dip them in melted Butter, and dradge them well 
v^ith grated Bread, then lay them on a Gridiron, turn them 
often : If your Fire be not very clear, you may lay^them on 
a Sheet of Paper well buttered, to keep them from being 
fmoaked. While they are boiling, prepare your Sauce thus : 
Take a Piece of Onion, or a Shalot, an Anchovy, and a 
Couple of Spoonfuls of Pickles, and mince them veryfmall, 
€very one by themfelves ; as alfo a Spoonful of Parfley 
minced. Then add a little Salt, a little Pepper, five or fix 
Spoonfuls of Oil, a Spoonful of Water, and the Juice of one 
Lemon. Mix all thefe well together ; and when you are 
going to ferve, put in a Spoonful of IVIuftard ; pour this Sauce; 
cold into the Diih ; your Pigeons being broil'd enough, lay 
them on the Top of it, and ferve it for a firll Courfe. 

To drefs Pigeons ^ith Truffles. 

LOOSEN the Skin of their Breafls ; then mince your 
Pigeons Livers with fome Lean of Ham or Bacon, and 
i"ome Fat, Mufhrooms and Truffles, Cives and Parfley, and 
fweet Herbs ; feafon with Pepper and Spices, and pound all 
thefe together, with the Yolks of two raw Eggs : Then farce 
the Breafls of your Pigeons with this Farce, Ipit them, wrap 
them up in thin Slices of Veal, cover the Veal with thin 
Slices of Bacon, wrap them up in Sheets of Paper, and roafl 
them. In the mean Time, make for them a Ragoo pf Truf- 
fles in the Manner following : Peel your Truflles, wafn them 
tlean, cut t-hern in Slices, and put them into a Stew-pan, put 
£0 them fome good Veal-Gravy, and {^t them a fimmering 
over a Stove. When they are enough, put in a Cullis of 
Veal and Ham to thicken it. V/hen your Pigeons are roafted 
enough, take off the Bards, difli them., pour yourRa^^GC over 
thenij and lerve them hot for firit Courle. 



d OJlii 



Ti?^ La D y's Co M p A N I o N. 519 

A Cullis of Pigeons, 

TA K E a Couple of Pigeons at their full Growth, road 
them, and pound them in a Mortar ; then fhred a 
Couple of Anchovies, fome Mocds and TrufRes, a Couple of 
Rocamboles, a few Capers, fome Parfiey and Cives together 
very fmall ; mix thele with the pounded Pigeons, put them 
into a Stew-pan with Veal-Gravy and Ham, let them fim- 
mer a while, then ftrain it through a Sieve for Ufe. 

Cuckows may be dreiTed the feveral Ways that Pigeons 
are. 

To drefi Partridges a la Braife. 

PULL and draw your Partridges, trufs their Legs inio 
their Bodies, parboil them, and lard them with large 
Lardoons of Bacon, feafoned with Salt, Pepper, Spices, fweet 
Herbs, Cives, and Parfley ihred. Take a Stew-pan with a 
Cover, lay Bards of Bacon over the Bottom of it, lay thin 
Slices ©f Beef upon them, lay upon your Beef-llices Carrots 
and Onions, and lirew over them fhred Parfley ^ feafon with 
Salt, Pepper, Spices, and fweet Herbs ; then lay in the Par- 
tridges with the Breails downwards; then feafon them above, 
as you did underneath, and then lay over them Slices of 
Beef, and upon them Slices of Bacon ; cover your Stew-pail, 
and let them flew with Fire over and under them. While 
they are Hewing, make a Ragoo of Cocks-combs, fat Livers, 
Veal Sweetbreads, Truffks, Mufhrooms, Artichoak-Bottoins, 
and Afparagus-Tops, according to the Seafon, in the fol- 
lowing Manner : Tofs up in a Stew-pan, with a little melted 
Bacon, the Sweetbreads, fat Livers, Cocks-combs, Mufh- 
rooms, and TrufRis -, moillen them vvith Gravy, and let them 
fmimer in it Half an Plour ; then fkim off the Fat clean ; and 
having blanched your Artichoak-Bottoms and Afparagus- 
Tops in Vy''ater, put them into the Stew-pan, and thicken it 
with a Cullis of t'eal and Ham. When your Partridges are 
fhevv'd enough, take them up, drain them, and put them into 
your Ragoo. Diih them handfomely, pour the Ragoo upon 
them, and ferve them up for a f rft Courle. 

You may alfo ferve them up with a hafh'd Sauce, or a 
Ragoo of Cucumbers. 



To 



320 The Lady's Companion. 

7o drefs Partridges a Biherot. 

AFTER ycu have roafted your Partridges, take the 
Meat of the Breafts, and if that is not enough, take 
the Breafts of fat Pullets roafted ; then flour a Board well, 
and mince it. Pound the CarcafTes in a Mortar, and ftew 
them with Gravy ; ftrain them through a Sieve ; then put 
them i:ito a Pipkin with your minced Meat, let it ftew over 
a gentle Fire, but fee that it does not flick to the Bottom ; 
then put in a Spoonful of Gammon EfTence ; take care not 
to let it be either too thin, or too fat. When it is enough., 
difh it OD Plates, and ferve it up to Table hot to be eaten with 
a Spoon. 

You may drew over it Chippings of Bread grated fine, and 
brown it with 'a red-hot Iron ; then you may eat it with a 
Fork. 

% make Partridge Pains, 

TAKE roafted Partridges, and the Flefh of a Pullet or 
Capon, fome parboiled Bacon, fry'd Sewet, Mufh- 
rooms, and Morels chopped ; alfo Artichoke-Bottoms, Truf- 
fles, a little Nutmeg, Salt, and fweet Herbs, all feafoned and 
cut very fmall ; and add the Crumb of a Loaf foaked ia 
Gravy, and fome Yolks of Eggs to bind it. Then make your 
Pains upon Paper of a round Figure, and of the Thicknefs of 
an Egg, at a proper Diftance one from another. Dip the 
Point of your Knife in beaten Eggs, in order to ihape them, 
ibread them neatly, and bake them a Quarter of an Hour in a 
quick Oven : Obferve that the Truftles and Morels be boiled 
tender in the Gravy you foak the Bread in. Serve them up 
for a Side-difh. Thefe will ferve to garnifti the large Side- 
difties. 

7o diefs Partridges ^vlih ftveet Herbs. 

RA I S E the Skin of the Partridges from their Breafts 
with your Finger; then mince fweet Herbs andParfley 
fine, fcraped Bacon, feafon'd with Salt and Pepper, ftuft' this 
in between the Skins and Breafts of tlie Partridges ; then bard 
them with Bacon all round, fpit them, and lay them at the 
Fire to roaft ; when they are enough, take off the Bards, difh 
them handfomely, pour on them fome Eflence of Ham, or 
Cullis, and ferve them up to the Table for a firft Courfe. 



r» 



37?^ La D y's Companion. 321 

To drefi Partridges a PEJioffade. 

FIRST road your Partridges, take off their Skins, and 
cut them into'Slices ; then put Mufhrooms into a Stew- 
pan, tofs them up with melted Bacon ; put to them a little 
Veal Gravy, let them fimmer over a gentle Fire, r^im off the 
Fat, and thicken with a Cullis of Veal and Ham; put your 
Partridges into this Ragoo, and give them a Heat; feafon 
all with Salt and Pepper, and ferve them up for an Outwork. 

To Jfe^o Partridges. 

GE T Half a Dozen Partridges, parboil them; then cut 
them into little Pieces, feparating the Joint-bones one 
from the other, cut the Meat into as large Slices as you can, 
but do not cut it clear off from the Bones ; put both Meat 
and Bones (except the Breaft-bones) into a Stew-pan, with 
feme of the Liquor v/herein they were ftcw'd, feafon it with 
Salt and Pepper, fet it on the Fire to flew, afterwards put in 
a little fweet Oil. When it is near enough, fquecze in the 
Juice of a Lemon. Pour it all out into a large Dilh, and 
ferve it up hot. 

7o ronjl Partridges. 

DRAW your Partridges, trufs them ; then roaft them, 
but not too .dry ; then fauce them with Salt, Water, 
grated Bread, and a whole Onion boiled together ; When it 
is boiled, take out the Onion, and put in minced Lemon in 
its Stead ; put in alfo a Piece of Butter : Difh your Par- 
tridges, and ferve them up with this Sauce. 

Another Way, 

LE T them be nicely roafted, but not too much, drudge 
them with a little Flour, and bafte them moderatefy, 
let them have a fme Froth, let there be good Gravy fauce in 
the Difh, and Bread fauce in Bafons made thus : Take a Pine 
of Water, put in a good thick Piece of Bread, fome whole 
Pepper, a Blade or two of Mace, boil it five or ilx Minutes 
till the Bread is foft, then ta' e out all the Spice, and pour out 
all the Water, only juft enough to keep it moiil, beat it with 
a Spoon foft, throw in a little Salt, and a good Piece of frefli 
Butter, Ibr it well together, fet it over the Fire for a Minaie 
or two, then put it into a Baron. 



P 5 -r. 



322 X^^ Lady's Companion. 

^0 boil Partridges. 

BOIL them in a good deal of Water, let them boil 
quick, and fifteen Minutes will befufiicient : For Sauce, 
take a Quarter of a Pint of Cream, and a Piece of frefh But- 
ter as big as a large Walnut, iHr it one Way till it is melted, 
and pour it into the Diih. 

Toung Partridges in Gallimaufry. 

YOU muft pick, finge, and draw your Partridges, put 
them on the Spit, ^vith a Bit of Butter in the hifide of 
each, wrapping them up with Bards of Bacon in Paper ; when 
they are done enough, cut them as you would your Chickens 
for a Fricafey, then put them into a Stew-pan with a little 
Broth, a little flired Cives, and a Shalot, a little Parfley, 
Salt, and Pepper, a Rocambole well minced, a An all Hand- 
ful of Crumbs of Bread, fome Zefts, with the Juice of an 
Orange ; heat them a little on the Fire, and give them two 
or three Tofles without boiling, and ferve them up hot for a 
firfl Courfe Dilh. 

Toung Partridges 'voith Oli'ves. 

GE T of Partridges the Number you think proper, ac- 
. cording to the Bignefs of your Diih, pick them well, 
draw them clean, but do not cut their Hole in the Backfide, 
take away their Gall, and mince them with fome Parfley, 
Chibbol, Mufhrooms, fweet Herbs, All-fpice, Salt, Pepper, 
fcraped Bacon, with a Bit of Butter ; put the Whole in the 
Inlide of your Partridge, putting the Rump in the Hole of 
their Backfide, do not take off their Feet, and let them take 
a Fry in the Stew-pan, with a Bit of Butter, fome Sprigs of 
Parfley, a little Chibbol, with fome Salt ; after which, fplit 
them, wrap them up in Slices of Bacoin, and fome Sheets of 
Paper ; then get fome Olives, and having taken their Stones 
away, blanch them in boiling Water, then put them in a 
Stew-pan with a Cullis, fome ElTence of Ham, and fome 
Gravy, let them boil, ajid take off the Fat; let the Whole 
be pretty relifhing : Your young Partridges being done, take 
them up, and the slices of Bacon, with the Paper, being taken 
oif, lay them in your Difh with your Olives over them, and 
ferve them hot for the firft Courfe. 



Toung 



^he L A D y'S C O M P A N I N. 323 

Toung Partridges ^>xith Oyflers^ 

YO U muft pick fome young Partridges, draw them, but 
do not cut the Backfide Hole of them ; mince their Li- 
vers, and having got fome Oyfters, blanch them, and take out 
the Hard ; after which, put them in a Stew-pan, with a Bit 
of Butter, the minced Livers, fon.e Parfley, Chibbol, Salt, 
Pepper, fweet Herbs, andAll-fpice ; then give it two or three 
Toiies, iind fluff your young Partridges with it, after which, 
put each Rump into its Hole, and let your Partridges fry a 
little, and put them on the Spit, wrapp'd up in Slices of Ba- 
con and Paper ; then get fome more Oyfcers, blanched as the 
ethers, put them in a Stew- pan, with Half a Spoonful of 
good Eifcnce of Ham, and a little of your Cuilis, which 
having boiPd as much as is neceflary, to fhorten it at Plea- 
fure, put the Juice of a Lemon therein. Your young Par- 
tridges being done, draw them off, taking off the Bacon and 
Paper ; after which, lay them in their Difh, with your Ra- 
goo of Oyiters over them, and ferve them up hot for a firfl: 
Courfe., 

A Hafh of Partridges. 

AFT E R having roafted your Partridges, cut the Wings 
and Legs off, and take all the Meat, which you muM: 
mince well, then take and pound their Carcaffes, which be- 
ing well pounded, muft be put in a Stew-pan, with a little 
EiTence of Ham ; let them waroi a little, and ftrain them 
through a Sieve : Then take your minced Partridges, and 
put them in a fmall Stew-pan ; after which put in fome Cui- 
lis fcrained, the Quantity you think fit : Being ready to ferve, 
keep your Hafh hot, but take care it doth not boil ; put in it 
fqueezed Rocamboles, and the Juice of an Orange i after 
which, ferve it up for a firft Courfe. 

At another Time, put therein the White of a Fowl, and 
your Hafli will be fo much the nicer, 

7o roaji Pheafants. 

PICK and draw your Pheafants, blanch and lard them 
with fine Bacon, fpit them with Paper round them^ to 
be done before a flow Fire. When almoft done, take the 
Paper off to let them get a Colour, and difh them up hand- 
fomely. 



Another 



';?4- ^^^ Lady's Companion. 

Another Way. 

PICK and draw your Fheafants, and finge thein, lard 
one with Bacon, but not the other, fpit them,roaft them, 
and pepper them all over the Breaft ,• when they are iuft done 
flour and bafle them with a little Butter, and let them hare a 
iine white Froth; then take them up, and pour good Gravy 
in the Difn, and Bread-fauce in Plates, 

Or you may put Water-crefTes picked and wafhed, and juft 
icalded, with Gravy in the Diih, and lay the CrelTes under 
the Pheafants. 

Or you may make Selleiy-fauce ftew'd tender, flrain'd and 
anixed with Cream, and poured into the Dilh. 

If you have but one Pheafant, take a large fine Fowl, about 
the Bignefs of the Pheafant, pick it with the Plead on, draw 
it, and trufs it with the Plead turned as rou do a Pheafant's, 
lard the Fowl all over the Breaft and Legs with a large Piece 
of Bacon cut in little Pieces ; when roafted, put them both in 
a Dilh, and no-body will know it : They will take an Hour's 
coing, as the Fire muft not be too briik. 

To dreji Pheafants 'with Carp-fauce. 

ARD your Pheafants, roaft them, and take care they 
_ do not dry. To make the Sauce, lay in the Bottom of 
a Stew-pan fome Veal Slices, as you do when you make 
Gravy ; add to this Veal fome Slices of a Gammon of Bacon, 
fome iliced Onion, fome Parfley -roots, and a Bunch of fweet 
Herbs. Then gut a Carp, wafh it in one Water only, with- 
out fcaling it, cut it in Pieces, as if you were to ftevv it, and 
lay thcni in the fame Stew-pan, brown this a little over the 
Stove, as if you would make Gravy of it ; then v/et it with 
good Gravy, pour in a Bottle of Champaign or other White 
Wine, and add a Clove of Garlick, fome minced Truffles, and 
Mulhrooms, and iom.e fmall Crufts of Bread : Boil all this 
■\\^\\ together, and take care it be not too fait. When it is 
well boiled, ftrain it in a Sieve, forcing it through, that the 
Sr.uce may be pretty thick; if it be not, put to it fome Par- 
tridge Cuilis, and pour it into a Stew-pan : Before you ferve, 
bind your Pheafants with Packthread, put them into this 
Sauce, and keep them warm: When you would ferve, unbind 
them, lay them in a Difh^ and pour the Sauce upon them. 



Jheafants 



The Lady's Companion, 325 

Pheafants nvith Oyfters the Italian Way, nuith a lohite Sauce, 

GE T fome Pheafants, pick them clean, and draw them, 
cut the Livers fmall, take Ibme Oyfters, wx. to each 
Pheafant Half a Dozen will be enough ; blanch them, and 
put them in a Stew-pan with their Livers, and a Lump of 
Butter, fome Parfley, green Onions, Pepper, and Salt, fweet 
Herbs, fine Spice ; put all together a Moment over the Fire, 
and put it afterwards into your Pheafants. Blanch them in a 
Stew-pan with Oil, green Onions, Parfley, fweet Bafd, and 
Lemon-juice : Then put them on the Spit, covered with Slices 
of Bacon, and Paper ty'd round; take fome Oyfters, and 
blanch them in their own Liquor; then prick them ,• take a 
Stew-pan, put in it four Yolks of Eggs, the Half of a Lemon 
cut into fmall Dice, a little beaten Pepper, a little fcraped 
Nutmeg, a little Parfley cut fmall, a Rocambole, an Anchovy- 
cut fmall, a little Oil, a fmall Glafs of Champaign, or other 
White Wine, a Lump of Butter with a little Ham Cullis ; 
then put your Sauce over the Fire, and thicken it : Take care 
the Sauce does not turn, put in it your Oyfters.; fee that your 
Sauce be relifliing. Your Pheafants being done, draw them 
off, take off the- Bacon, and difh them up with the Oyfter 
Ragoo over them, and ierve them up hot for an Entry. 

Pheafants nvith Olives. 

TA K E as many Pheafants as you think will make up 
your Difli, pick, finge, and draw them clean ; but 
don't cut the lower Part o? the Belly, or Vent. Take ofF the 
Galls from your Livers, and cut thefe fmall, with fome Parf- 
ley, green Onions, Champignons, fweet Herbs, fine Spice, 
Pepper, Salt, fcraped Bacon, and a Bit of Butter, and put all 
this into the Belly of your Pheafants, and thruft the Rump 
into the lower Part of the Belly, or Vent, to prevent your 
Forced-meat from coming out ; blanch them in a Stew-pan, 
with Butter, Parfley, green Onions, Salt, Bafll, all in Branches ; 
put your Pheafants on the Spit, wrapp'd up in Slices of Bacon, 
and Paper ty'd round. Take fome Olives, take out their 
Stones, blanch them in hot Water ; they being blanch'd, put 
them in a Stew-pan, with Cullis, EflTence of Ham and Gravy; 
put them a boiling, ikimming the Fat w ell ofF ; fee that all 
together be reliftiing : Your Pheafanti being roafted, draw 
them off, and take off the Slices of Bacon; difli thern up, 
put your Olives over them, and ferve them hot for an Entrv 
Iqv fecond Courfe, 

To 



22.6 Tbe Lady's Companion, 

To boil a Pheafant. 

FL E A off the Skin, but leave the Rump and Legs whole 
with the Pinions ; theo mince the raw Flelh with feme- 
Beef-fewet; feafon it With Salt, Pepper, Nutmeg, and fweet 
Herbs, {hred fmall -, take alfo theEottoms of three Artichokes 
boird, fome Chefnuts roafted and blanch'd, fome Skirrets 
boiPd and cut pretty fmall ; incorporate all thefe together 
with the Yolks of three or four raw Eggs, according to the 
Quantity of your Ingredients ; then fill the Skin of your Phea- 
fant, and prick it up in the Back, then boil it in fome ftrong 
Broth, Quarters of boil'd Artichokes, Marrow, White Wine, 
Salt, large Mace, Chefnuts, Grapes, Barberries, and Pears 
quarter'd, and alfo fome of the Meat made up into Balls, 
cover it clofe, fet them over the Fire, and let them itew ; 
when they are enough, ferve them up on fine carved Sippets, 
broth it, and lay on the Garnifh, with whole Lemon- peel 
and Slices of Lemon ; run them over with beaten Butter ; 
' garniih the Difh with large Mace, the Yolks of hard Eggs 
and Chefnuts. 

Another Way, 

BO I L it in a good deal of Water, keep your W^ater boil- 
ing, Half an Hour will do a fmall one, and three Quar- 
ters of an Hour a large one ; let your Sauce be Sellery ftew'd 
and thickened with Cream, and a little Piece of Butter rolled 
in Flour ; take up the Pheafant, and pour the Sauce all over. 
Garnifh with Lemon. Obferve to flew your Sellery fo, that 
the Liquor will be all wafled away before you put your Cream 
in ; if it wants Salt put in fome to your Palate. 

^o^o//Pheafants, Woodcocks, Partridges, Chickens, or Quails. 

TAKE three Pheafants, or other Birds, put them into a 
Stew-pan with as much Water as will cover them ; like- 
>vife take two Blades of Mace, a Nutmeg cut in Quarters, 
three or four whole Cloves, a Piece of Butter, three or four 
Manchet Toafls toafted brown, foak them in Sherry or Sack, 
ilrain them through a Sieve with fome of the Liquor you flew 
the Pheafants in,^ then put them in your Stew-pan to your 
Pheafants, flew them foftly, turning them very often till the 
Liquor be half walled, then put in a little frefh Butter and 
Salt; when it is enough, garnifh your Difh with fliced Lemon 
and the Yj^lks of hard Eggs fhred fine, laying little Heaps be- 
tween your Slices of Lemon j lay Sippets in the Bottom of 

your 



^he Lady's Companion. 327 

ydur Difti, and then lay on them your Pheafants, and pour 
your Liquor very hot upon them, lay on their Breads fome 
round Slices of Lemon. 

A Jierved Pheafant. 

STEW it in Veal Gravy, take Artichoke-Bottoms par» 
boiled, fomeChefnuts roafled and blanched -, when your 
Pheafant is enough (it mufl flew till there is juft enough for 
Sauce) fkim it, put in the Chefnuts and Artichoke Bottoms, 
a little beaten iVi ace, Pepper, and Salt, jaft enough to feafon 
it, and a Glafs of White Wine, and if you don't think it thick 
enough, thicken it with a little Piece of Butter roll'd in Flour, 
and fqueeze in a little Lemon j pour the Sauce over the Phea- 
fant, and have feme Force-meat Balls fry'd to put into theDilh. 
Note, A good Fowl will do full as well, trufs'd with the 
Head on like a Pheafant j ycu may fry Saufages inllead of 
Force-meat Balls. 

To dnfs a Pheafant a. la Braife. 

LA Y a Layer of Beef all over your Pan, then a Layer of 
Veal, a little Piece of Bacon, a Piece of Carrot, an 
Onion ftuck with fix Cloves, a Blade or two of Pvlace, a 
Spoonful of Pepper, black and white., and a Bundle of fweet 
Herbs ; then lay in the Pheafant, lay a Layer of Veal, and 
then a Layer of Beef to cover it, iet it over the Fire five or fix 
Minutes, then p ur in two Quarts of boiling Water ; cover it 
clofe, and let it itew very foftly an Hour and Half, then take 
up your Pheafant, and keep it hot, and let the Gravy boil till 
there is about a Pint, then ftrain it off, and put it in again^ 
and put in a Veal Sweetbread, firll being Hewed with the 
Pheafant, then put in fome TrufRes and Morels, fome Livers 
of Fowls, Artichoke-Bottoms, Afparagus-Tops, if you have 
them; let all thefe fimmer in the Gravy about five or fix Mi- 
nutes J then add two Spoonfuls of Catchup, two of Red Wine, 
and a little Piece of Butter rolled in Flour, ihake all together, 
put in your Pheafant, let them flew all together with a few 
Mufhrooms about five or fix Minutes more, then take up the 
Pheafant, and pour yeurRagoo all over with a few Force-meat 
Balls. Garnifh with Lemon ; you may lard it if you chufe it. 

To boil a Peacock. 
L E A off the Skin, but leave the Rump whole with the 
Pinions, then mince the Flefh raw with fome Beef-fewet, 
ieafon with Salt, Pepper, Nutmeg, and favoury Herbs (hred 

' ' fmall 



F 



Q28 ne Lady's Companion. 

fmall, and Yolks of Eggs raw j mingle with thefe fome Mar- 
row, the Bottoms of three Artichokes boil'd, Chefnuts, roafted 
and blanch 'd, and Skirrets boiFd pretty fmall ; then fill the 
Skin of the Peacock, and prick it up in the Back, fet it to 
flew in a deep Difh in fome flrong Broth, White Wine, with 
.Salt, large Mace, Marrow, Artichokes boiled and quartered, 
Chefnuts, Grapes, Barberries, Pears quartered, and fome of 
the Meat m.ade into Balls, cover it with another large Difh ; 
when it is ftew'd enough, ferve it up on carv'd Sippets, broth 
it, and garni£h with Slices of Lemon, and Lemon-peel whole, 
run it over with beaten Butter. Garniih the Difh with the 
Yolks of hard Eggs, Chefnuts, and large Mace. 

J Ruddock 

IS a Water Bird, much like a Duck, but the Flefh of it is 
much more delicious than that of Ducks. Drefs it all the 
Ways you do Ducks. 

ro fry Thruihes. 

FR Y them in Lard, with a little Flour, a little White Wine> 
Salt, Pepper, Nutmeg, a Faggot of fvveet Herbs and 
Capers, and when you ferv^e them up, fqueeze in a Lemon, 
jkim off the Fat, and llrain the Sauce over the Thruihes, and 
garniih with fiic'ci Lemon, chopped Capers, and Beet-root. 

To roaji Thruihes. 

PICK them clean, trufs them, and put them upon an Iron 
Skev/er, which tie to the Spit, and roaft them -, take a 
Piece of fat Bacon, as big as your two Fingers, which wrap 
up in Paper, ftick it to the End of a Toafting-fork, and hold 
it to the Fire, and let it drop upon the Thruihes i when the 
Bacon drops no longer, fling fome Salt and Crumbs of Bread 
upon them ; then take a few Shalots, or Onions, "cut them 
fmall, and put them into a Stew-pan, with a little Salt and 
Pepper, and a little Gravy ; but if you have none, a little 
Water, ar.d a little Butter, the Juice of a Lemon, Verjuice, 
or Vinegar ; let all Hew together for a little while ; then pour 
. it into the Difl-i you intend to ferve ; your ThruHies being 
roailed, put them to it, and ferve them up hot, garnilhing 
with fliced Lemon. 

You may ferve them with Juniper-berries for Sauce, after 
the following Manner ; wrap them up in Slices of Bacon and 
Paper, and while they are roafling, put in a Stew-pan a little 

Gravy 



ne Lady's Companion; 32$ 

Gravy and Cullis, with a Glafs of White Wine, boil it, let 
it be of a good Tafte, and put in it the Juice of a Lemon ; 
then take a Dozen of Junipei -berries, and blanch them, then 
put them into your Cullis. Your Thrulhes being ready, take 
off the Slices of Bacon and Paper, and put them to fimmer a 
little while in your Cullis j take off the Fat, and put them 
into your Difh with the Cullis, pour it over them^ and ferve 
them up hot for a firft Courfe. 

To Jfeiv Lapwings. 

PICK, fmge, draw, and cut them in two, and put them 
in a Stew-pan with melted Bacon, a Bunch of Herbs, 
two fmall Onions cut fmall, fome Muihrooms, Truffies, if you 
have any, and Veal Sweetbreads, give all a few Toffes over 
the Fire, then put to it a Couple of Glaffes of White Wine, 
a little Gravy and Cullis, and let all fimmer j being done, 
Ikim off the Fat, let it be of a good Tafte, put in it the Juice 
of a Lemon, pour it in your Difn, and ferve it hot for the firft 
Courfe. 

You may roail or fry Lapwings after the Manner of 
Thruihes. 

To roafi Snipes, 

DRAW them or not, as you like them ; but if they are 
drawn, put fmall Onions into the Bellies, and while 
they are roalling put Claret, Vinegar, Salt, Pepper, and An- 
chovy, into the Dripping-pan J to which, when they are 
roafted, add a little grated Bread and fome Butter, fhaking 
the Whole well together, and fo ferve them up : If you do 
not draw them, then only take out the Guts, mince them very 
fmall, and put them into Claret, with a little Salt, Gravy, 
and Butter ; or you may make the Sauce thus : Having boil'd 
fome Onions, butter them, and feafon them with Pepper and 
Salt, and put to them the Gravy of any frefli Meat. 

To r 5^7/? Snipes or Woodcocks. 

SPIT them on a fmall Bird-fpit, flour them, and bafte 
them with a Piece of Butter, then have ready a Slice of 
Bread toafted brown, lay it in a Difh, and fet it under the 
Snipes, for the Tail to drop on, to know when they are 
enough ; take them up, and lay them on the Toalt ; have 
ready, for two Snipes, a Quarter of a Pint of good Beef- 
Gravy, hot, pour it into the Difh, and fet it over a Chafing- 
difh two or three Minutes. Garnifh with Lemon, and fend 
thejn hot to Table. 

Scopes 



530 The Lady's Companion. 

Snipes in d Surtouty or Woodcocks. 

TAKE Force-meat, made with Veal, as much Eeef- 
fewet chopped and beat in a Mortar, with an equal 
Quantity of Crumbs of Bread ; mix in a little beaten Mace, 
Pepper, and Salt, fome Parfley, and a little fweet Herbs, mix 
it with the Yolk of an Egg, lay fome of thii Meat round the 
Difli, then lay in the Snipes, being iirit drawn and half 
roafted ; take care of the Trail, chop it, and throw it ail 
over the Difli. 

Take fome good Gravy, according to the Bignefs of your 
Surtout, fome Truffles and Morels, a few Mulhrooms, a 
Sweetbread cut into Pieces, Artichoke-Bottoms cut fmall, let 
all ftew tog: ther, fhake them, take the Yolks of two or three 
Eggs, according as you want them, beat them up with a 
Spoonful or two of White Wine, and llir all together one 
Way ; when it is thick take it off, let it cool, and pour it into 
the Surtout ; have the Yolks of a few hard Eggs put in here 
and there, feafon with beaten Mace, Pepper, and Salt, to your 
Tafte ; cover it with the Force-meat all over, rub the Yolks 
of Eggs all over to colour it, then fend it to the Oven. Half 
an Hour does it ; fend it hot to Table. 

To boil Snipes. 

BO.I L Snipes either in ftrong Broth, or Water and Salt* 
take out the Guts, and chop them fmall with the Liver* 
add fome grated Bread, a little of the Broth, and fome whole 
Mace, ftew them together m fome Gravy ; then difiblve the 
Yolks of a Couple of Eggs in Wine Vinegar, add Nutmeg, 
grated ; and when you are ready to ferve it up, put in the 
Eggs, and ftir them among the Sauce with fome Batter ; di{h 
them on Sippets, and run the Sauce over them with fome 
beaten Butter and Capers, or minced Lemon, Barberries, or 
pickled Grapes. 

To boil Snipes cr Woodcocks. 

BOIL them in good ftrong Broth, or Beef-Gravy, made 
thus : Take a Pound of Beef, cut it into little Pieces, 
put. it into two Quarts of Water, an Onion, a Bundle of 
fweet Herbs, a Blade or two of Mace, fix Cloves, and fome 
whole Pepper ; cover it clofe, let it boil till about Half is 
wafted, then ftrain it off, put the Gravy into a Stew-pan with 
Salt enough to feafon it, take the Snipes and gut them clean 

(but 



ne Lady's Companion. ^gr 

(but take care of the Guts) put them into the Gravy, and let 
them boil, cover them clofe, and ten Minutes will boil them, 
if they keep boiling : In the mean Time, chop the Guts and 
Liver fmall, take a little of the Gravy the Snipes are boiling 
in, and flew the Guts in with a Blade of Mace ; take fome 
Crumbs of Bread, and have them ready fry'd in a little frefn 
Butter crifp, of a fine light Brown ; you muft take about as 
much Bread as the Infide of a Roll, and rub them fmall into a 
clean Cloth ; when they are done, let them fland ready in a 
Plate before the Fire. 

When your Snipes are ready, take about Half a Pint of 
the Liquor they are boiled in, and add to the Guts, two 
Spoonfuls of Red Wine, and a Piece of Butter, about as big 
as a Walnut, rolled in a little Flour, fet them on the Fire, 
ihake your Stew-pan often (but don't flir it with a Spoon) 
till the Butter is all melted ; then put in the Crumbs, give 
your Stew-pan a Shake, take up your Birds, lay them in the 
Difh, and pour this Sauce over them. ' Garnifh with Le- 
mon. 

To Jieiv or fry Snipes. 

TAKE Snipes, and flit them in two, but take nothing 
out of their Bellies ; then put them into a Stew-pan, 
or fry them with melted Bacou, and tofs them up, feafonirvg 
them with Salt and Pepper, Gives, and the Juice of Muih- 
rooms; when they are done, fqueeze in the Juice of a Lemon, 
and ferve them up hot, garnifhed with Slices of Lemon. 

Ortolans roajied. 

BARD them, or let them be plain, putting a Vine-leaf 
betwixt them; when they are fpitted, fome Crumbs of 
Bread may be ufed as for Larks ; when you roall them, let 
them be fpitted Side-ways, which is the beft. 

Ortolans fried. 

PASS them in the Pan with Butter, or melted Lard ; 
after they are fry'd, foak them with a little Broth, and 
feafon them well ; to thicken the Sauce, mix v^ ith it fome 
Sweetbreads, the Juice of Meat and Mufhrooms ; and when 
all is well flew'd, ferve -, garnifh wich Piftachoes and Pome- 
granates. 



1o 



322 ^be Lady's Companion; 

To drefs RufFs and Reifs. 

THEY are Lincoln/hire Birds, and you may fatten them 
as you do Chickens, with white Bread, Milk, and Su- 
gar; they feed faft, and will die in their Fat if not kilPd in 
Time ; trufs them crofs-legged as you do a Snipe, and fpit 
them the fame Way ; but you muil; gut them ; put Gravy, 
thicken'd with Butter, and a Toaft under them, and ferv€ 
them quick. 

Curlews potted. 

TRUSS them crofslegg'd, and cut off the Heads, or 
thruft them through like a Woodcock ; feafon them 
with Pepper, Salt, and Nutmeg ; gut them firft, then put 
them in a Pot with two Pounds of Butter ; cover them, and 
bake them one Hour ; then take them out, and when cool, 
fqtieeze out all the Liquor, and lay them in your Pot, and 
cover them with clarified Butter. 

Potted Wheat- Ears. 

TH E Y are Tunbridge Birds : Pick them vtty clean, 
feafon them with ^f^epper and Salt, put them in a Pot, 
cover them with Butter, anc bake them one Hour ; take thena 
and put them in a Coianaer to drain the Liquor av/ay; then 
cover them with clarified Butter, and they will keep, 

To roaji Quails. 

(> E T Quails, trufs them, fluff their Bellies with Beef- 
X fewet and fweet Herbs, chopped well together ; fpit 
them on a fmall Spit, and when they grow warm, bafte firft 
with Water and Salt, but afterwards with Butter, and drudge 
them with Flour. For Sauce, diffolve an Anchoyy in Gravy, 
into which put two or three Shalots, flic'd and boil'd ; add 
the Juice of two or three .SrwV/f Oranges and one Lemon; 
difh them in this Sauce, and garnilh with Lemon-peel an4 
grated Manchet : Be fure to ferve them up hot. 

Another Way to drefs Quails. 

SLIT yor.r Quails along the Back, make a Farce with 
fcraped Bacon, a little of the Lean of a Ham, one Truffle, 
feme Fowls Livers, and the Yolk of a raw Egg ; the Whole 
minc'd and pounded together, and feafon'd with Salt, Pepper, 

Nutmeg, 



T/Et^ L A D y'S Co MP A N I O N, 333 

Nutmeg, and favour/ Herbs ; farce your Quails with it, then 
garnifh the Bottom of a Stew-pan with Slices of Bacon, and 
fome of Veal over them j then lay in your Quails, the Breails 
downwards ; cover them with Slices of Veal and Ham, both 
feafon'd, as well thofe under them, as thofe upon them, with 
Salt, Pepper, favoury Herbs, and Spices. Lay a Plate over 
the Meat, fo as that it may touch it, and a Napkin all round 
the Plate ; then cover the Stew-pan with its own Cover j fet 
it over a gentle Fire, and Hew it very foftly two Hours : The 
Moment before you ferve, open the Stew-pan, take out the 
Slices of Veal and Bacon, and fet your Quails over the Stove 
to brown them ; when they are fine and brown, and the Liquor 
iticks to the Stew-pan, take them up, and lay them in the Dilh 
in which you intend to ferve them ; take out all the Fat that 
remains in the Stew-pan, moiflen that which flicks to it with 
half Broth, and half Gravy, to looibn it ; ilrew in a little 
j^ounded Pepper, fqueeze in the Juice of a Lemon, ilrain the 
Whole through a Sieve upon the Quails ; fo ferve them. 

A Pupton of Quails, 

YO U muft take, according to the Quantity you would 
make, fome Veal, Beef-fewet, and Bacon, with a little 
Parfley and Liver, a little of the Lean of a Ham, and a few 
Mulhrooms ; feafon this with Salt, Pepper, Cloves, Nutmeg, 
■favoury Herbs, and a Dozen Coriander Seeds pounded; add 
to this the Crumb of a French Roll foaked in Cream, and the 
Yolks of four or five raw Eggs ; hafh the Whole together, 
and pound it in a Mortar. Garnilh the Bottom and Sides of 
a large Stew-pan with Slices of Bacon, and then farce, rubb- 
ing your Hand with beaten Egg, to make the Farce lie the 
fmoother. Then having made a Ragoo of Quails, lay them 
into the Stew-pan, cover them with the fame Farce, for fear 
the Sauce of the Ragoo fhould get out, and rub the Farce over 
with beaten Egg ; lay over fome Bards of Bacon, then fet it 
to bake with Fire under and over it. When it is enough 
done, turn it upfide down into the Difn in which you intend 
to ferve it ; make a Hole in the Top of it of the Size of a 
Crown Piece, pour in fome Cullis or other, fo ferve it up for 
the firfl Courfe, either with Garniiliing or without. 



% 



334 ^^^ La d y's Companion. 

To dre/s Quails a la Braife. 

FARCE the Bellies of your Quails with a good Farce 
made of the Breaft of a Capon, Beef-marrow, and the 
Yolks of raw Eggs, feafoned with Salt, Pepper, and a little 
Nutmeg, ftew them in a Stew-pan, having firll garnifhed the 
Bottom of it with Slice: of Bacon and Beef, both beaten ; 
place your Quails upon them, and put in a Piece of raw Ham, 
minced and feafoned with Salt, Pepper, and a Bunch of fa- 
voury Herbs : Lay over them in like Manner fome beaten 
Slices of Beef and Bacon : Cover your Stew-pan very clofe, 
and put Fire over and under. Whilfe this is thus ftewing, 
make a Ragoo of Veal or Lamb Sweetbreads, tofs'd up in 
Butter with Muftirooms, TrufHes, and Cocks-combs, put in 
the Quails a little before you ferve, and bind your Ragoo 
with a good white Cullis, or with the Yolks of Eggs beaten 
up in Cream : When you would ferve them brown, moiften 
the Ragoo with Gravy, and thicken with a Cullis of a good 
Ham and Veal, if you have not -any Cullis of Partridges. 
Take the Quails out of the Ragoo, lay them in a Difli, pour 
your Ragoo upon them, and ferve them. 

A Bifque of Quails and other Tofwh, 

YO U muft trufs your Quails, and tofs them up in your 
Stew-pan till they are of a fine brown Colour. Then 
put them in a little Pot'with good Broth, Bards of Bacon, a 
Bunch of fweet Herbs, fome Cloves, and other Spices, with a 
oood Slice of ^td well beaten, and another of lean Bacon, 
and two or three of Lemon, and boil all together over a gentle 
Fire. Garnifh your Bifque with Veal Sweetbreads, Artichoke- 
Bottoms, Mufhrooms, TrufHes, Fricandoes, and Cocks-combs, 
with the Finifh of which laft make a Rim round your Bifque, 
and pour a little Veal Cullis upon it. 

To roajl Woodcocks. 

DR A W, walh, trufs, and fpit your Woodcocks ; roaft 
them, baile them with Butter ; when they are almofl 
roafted, drudge them with grated Bread ; preferve the Gravy, 
and make buttered Toafls, and put into it , or you may roaft 
the Guts with the Woodcocks, and mince them, and put 
them into the Gravy, with a little Claret. 



The Lady's Companion. 3^^ 

To roaft Woodcocks the French Way. 

GET fome Woodcocks, pull them, draw them, wafh them, 
trufs them, then lard them with broad Pieces of Bacou 
over their Breads ; road them, and ierve them upon Toafts 
dipped in Verjuice, or the Juice of Oranges, with the Gravy, 
and made warm. 

Another Way. 

ROAST them, take out their Guts and Livers, bruife 
them in a Stew-pan, put in feme Salt and Pepper, to 
feafon them, and fome Red Port Wine to moiflen them. If 
the Sauce is not thick enough, thicken it with a little Cullis 
of Veal and Ham, or Butter rolled in Flour; make it hot, 
fi^ueeze in the Juice of an Orange or two, cut up your Wood- 
cocks in it, and ferve them. 

To make a Suriout^f Woodcocks. 

MA K E a Farce for your Woodcocks of boiled Ham 
and raw Bacon, Veal Sweetbreads, Mufhrooms and 
Truffles, Gives, Farfiey, and a little Garlick, all fhred fmall, 
well fealbn'd, and bound together, with the Yolks of Eggs ; 
with this Farce duff the Bellies of your Woodcocks, and alfo 
their Breads, between the Skin and Fiefh -, put a large larded 
Fricando on the Bread of each Woodcock, tie them about 
with a Packthread, wrap them up in Paper, and road them ; 
while they are roading, prepare for them a Ragoo ; when 
they are enough, take off the Paper, dilh them with the Fri- 
cando on their Breads, pour the Ragoo over them, and ferve 
them up. 9 

To boil Woodcocks. 

THEY mud be boiled either in drong Broth, or in Wa- 
ter and Salt J when they are boiled, take out the Guts, 
and mince them with their Livers ; put to them fome grated 
Bread, a little of their Broth, and fome large Mace ; iktw 
thefe together with fome Grsvy j then diifolve a Couple of 
Eggs in fome Wine Vinegar and a little grated Nutmeg ; and 
when you are ready to ferve them up, put the Eggs into the 
Sauce, and dir them in with a little Butter; didi them on Sip- 
pets, run the Sauce over with beaten Butter and Capers, or Le- 
mon, minc'd Berries, or white pickled Grapes ; fometimes boil 
fliced Lemon with this Sauce ; and boil fome Currants in Broth 

by 



53^ Tbc Lady's Companion. 

by itfelf, and when you boil it with Onions rub the Fottom of 
the Dilh with Garlick. 

Another Way. 

THEY muft be boiPd with their Guts in them, in ilrong 
Broth or Water, and three or four whole Onions, Salt, 
and whole Mace ; when they are boilM, make the Sauce of 
fome thin Slices of Manchet, or grated Manchet, in another 
Stew-pan, and fome of the Broth of the Woodcocks, put to 
it a Bit of Butter, the Guts and Liver minc'd ; and having 
the Yolks of fome Eggs diflblv'd in Vinegar, and fome grated 
Nutmeg, put it to the other Ingredients, and ftir them to- 
gether y difli your Woodcocks on Sippets, pour the Sauce 
over them, with Slices of Lemon, Grapes, or Barberries, and 
run it over with beaten Butter. 

To drefs Woodcocks another Way. 

WHEN your Woodcocks are divided into four Pieces, 
lay by the Entrails to make a Thickening for your 
Sauce; then put your Quarters of Woodcocks into a Stew- 
pan, with Muflirooms and Truffles flic'd, and Veal Sweet- 
breads ; let thefe all be tofs'd up together with melted Bacoi\, 
and moiften'd with Beef-Gravy, and a Glafs or twoof VVine, 
with Salt, white Pepper, and Gives : Let thefe ftew together, 
and when they are almoft enough, take off the Fat ; put the 
Entrails you fav'd into the Sauce to thicken it; or elfe you 
may thicken it with a CuUis of Woodcocks, or fome other 
good Cullis. If you plcafe you may put in a little EfTence of 
Ham. Then difh your Woodcocks, pour your Ragoo upon 
them, fqueeze in the Juice of an Orange or Lemon, and ferve 
them up to Table hot for firft Courfe. 

You may drefs Woodcocks as Snipes; fometimes with a 
Ragoo of Oyllers, and fometimes with Olives. 

To drefs Plovers, 

TO two Plovers take two Artichoke -Bottoms boii'd, fome 
Chefnuts roafted and blanch'd, fome Skirrets boiPd, cut 
all very fmall, mix it with fome Marrow or Beef-fewet, the 
Yolks of two hard Eggs, chop all together, feafonwith Pepper, 
Salt, Nutmeg, and a little fweet Herbs, fill the Bodies of the 
Plovers, lay them in a Stew-pan, put to them a Pint of Gravy, 
a Glafs of White Wine, a Blade or two of Mace, fome roafted 
Chefnuts blanch'd, and Artichoke Bottoms cut in Quarters, 

two 



The L A D y's C o M p A N I ON. 537 

two or three Yolks of hard Eggs, and a little Juice of Lemon ; 
cover them clofe, and let them ftew very foftly an Hour. If 
you find the Sauce is not thick enough., take a Piece of But- 
ter rolled in Flour, and put it into the Sauce, fhake it round, 
and when it is thick take up your Plovers, and pour the Sauce 
over them. Garnifh with roafted Chefnuts, and the Yolks 
of hard Eggs. Ducks are very good done this Way. 

Or you may roaft your Plovers as you do any other Fowl, 
and have Gravy Sauce in the Difh. 

Or boil them in Sellery Sauce, either White or Brown, jult 
as you like. The fame Way you may drefs Widgeons. 

Plovers Capuchin, or Larks. 

^1"^ A K E four Hogs Ears, boil them tender, put a Piece 
i of Force-meat in the Ears, and likewife your Birds, 
with the Heads outwards ; fet them upright, the Tips of the 
Ears falling backwards ; wafli them with Eggs, and crumh 
them, and bake them gently; haih four others with Saucj- 
Robart, fo ferve them. 

To b'jii Widgeons. 

HAVING fleaM off their Skins, take out the Bones, 
mince the Fle(h with Beef-fewet, feafon with Gives, 
Mace, and Nutmegs beaten, fweet Herbs, and Oyfters par- 
boiled ; mix all thefe together, fill their Skins, prick them 
upon the Back, ilevv them in llrong Broth, Claret, or White 
Wine, with Salt, wliole MacC; three or four Cloves, a Faggot 
of fweet Herbs, Marrow, and Oylier-liquor. Stew fome 
Oyfters by themfelves, with an Onion or two. White Wine, 
Pepper, Butter, a' d whole Mace ; alfo prepare Artichokes in 
beaten Butter and boiled Marrow. Diih the Widgeons on 
fine carved Sippets, froth them, lay on theOyfters, Artichokes, 
Marrow, Barberries, Slices of Lemon, Grapes, or Goofe- 
berries^: Garnifh the Difh with grated Manchet, fome Oyfters, 
Slices of Lemon, Mace, and Artichokes, and run thera oyer 
with Butter beaten up, and ferve them up hot, 

fo Jlenjc Larks, or other Jmall Birds. 

TAKE Lark?, or other fmall Birds, after being drawn, 
tofs them up in a Stew-pan, with Butter, or melted 
Bacon, an Onion ftuck with Cloves, fome Muffirooms, and 
the Livers of Fowls ; tofs up altogether with a little Flour ; 
moiften them with Gravy, and when a little waftied, beat an 
Egg in a little Cream or Milk, v/ith fome fnred Parfley amonirft 
Vol. I. <t ^^ 



33^ 



The Lady's Companion 



it ; pour it into your Stew-pan, and give it a Stir or two, 
fqueeze in the Juice of Half a Lemon, then ferve it. 
To roafi Larks. 

TRUSS them handibmely on the Back, but neither 
draw them, nor cut oft their Feet. Lard them with 
fmall Lardoons, or elle fpit them on a wooden Skewer, 
with a fmall Bard of Bacon between two ; when they are near 
Toailed enough, drudge them with Salt powder'd fine, and 
£ne Crumbs of Bread. When they are ready, rub the Di(h 
you dengn to ferve them in v/Ith a Shalot, and ferve them 
with Salt, Pepper, Verjuice, and the Juice of an Orange, and 
Crumbs of Bread fry'd, and ferve in a Plate by themlelves. 

Or with a Sauce made of Claret, the Juice of two or, 
three Oranges, and a little flired Ginger, fet over the Fire a 
little while, and beat up with apiece of Butter. 

You may uie the fame Sauce for broil'd Larks, which you 
muft open on the Breafts, v/hen you lay them on the Gridiron. 
T^ drefi Larks Pear Fafiuon. 

YOU muft trufs the Larks clofe, and cut ofF the Legs, 
fcafon them with Salt, Pepper, Cloves, and Mace, make 
a Force-meat thus : Take a Veal Sweetbread, as much Beef- 
fewet, a few Morels and Muftirooms, chop all fine together, 
Ibme Crumbs of Bread, and a few Uveet Herbs, a littleLemon- 
peel cut fmall ; mix all together with the Yolk of an Egg, 
wrap up every Lark in Force-meat, and fhape them like a 
Pear, ilick one Leg in the Top like the Stalk of a Pear, rub 
them over with the Yolk of an Egg and Crumbs of Bread, 
bake them in a gentle Oven, ferve them without Sauce ; or 
they make a good Garnifh to a very fine Diih. 
You may uie Veal if you have not a Sweetbread. 
Larks in Shells. 

BOIL twelve Hen or Duck Eggs foft ; take out all the 
Infide, making a handfome Round at the Top ; then 
fill Half the Shells with palled Crumbs, and roaft your 
Larks ; put one in every Shell, and fill your Plate with 
pafTed Crumbs brown ; fo ferve as Eggs in Shells. 
Larks nj.^ith Sage. 

AFTER your Larks are pick'd and drawn, take a little 
Piece of Bacon, a little Piece of Ham boil'd, the White 
of a Fowl, and fome Sage; mince thefe all together, and put 
them into the Bodies of your Larks ; take as many Slices of 
JBacon as you have Larks, and put a little of the fame Stuffing 

over 



ne Lady's CoMPANieN. 339 

over the Bacon, with your Larks over them : Being wrapped 
up in the faid Slices, place them in a Baking-pan, and put 
them in the Oven, or under a Cover : Being done, diih thera 
up with Gravy. 

To roafl a Hare. 

ONE Side being larded, fpit it, without larding the 
other, and while it is roafting, bafte it with Milk or 
Cream j then Terve it with thick Claret-fauce. 
Another Way. 

TAKE fome Liver of a Hare, fome fat Bacon, grated 
Bread, an Anchovy, Shalot, a little Winter-favoury, 
and a little Nutmeg ; beat all thele into a Pafte, and put them 
into the Belly of the Hare ; bafte the Hare with ftale Beer ; 
put a little Bit of Bacon in the Pan ; when it is half roafted, 
bafte it with Butter. For Sauce take melted Butter, and a 
little Bit of Winter- favoury. 

Another Way . 

AFTER having larded him with Bacon, make a Pud- 
ding of grated Bread, the Heart and Liver parboiled, 
and chopp'd fmall, with Beef-fewet, and fweet Herbs, mix'd 
with Marrow, Cream or Milk, Nutmeg, Salt, Pepper, and 
Eggs, few up his Belly, and roaft him. When it is done, for 
Sauce, draw up your Butter with Cream, Milk, or Gravy, and 
Claret. 

Another Way. 

IT muft be bafted with ftale Beer, till the Blood is waflied 
off, then empty the Pan ; put into it fome Cream or Milk, 
a Bit of Anchovy, fome fat Bacon, a little Onion, and bafte it 
with this till it is enough; then take a little Butter, fome of 
the Liquor out of the Pan, and mix it for Sauce. You may put 
the Pudding, as in the foregoing Receipt, in the Belly of it. 

To jie^ a Hare. 

CUT it to Pieces, and put them into a Stew-pan, with a 
Blade or two of Mace, fome whole Pepper, Black and 
White, an Onion ftuck with Cloves, an Anchovy, a Bundle of 
fweet Herbs, and a Nutmeg cut to Pieces, and cover it with 
Water ; cover the Stew-pan clofe, let it ftew till the Hare is 
tender, but not too much done ; then take it up, and with a 
F^ork take out your Hare into a clean Pan, ftrain the Sauce all 
through a coarfe Sieve, empty all out of the Pan, put in the 
Hare again with the Sauce, take a Piece of Butter as big as a 
Walnut, rolled in Flour, and put in, likewife one Spoonful of 

0^2 Catchup, 



340 9"i^^ L A D y's Com p A N ION. 

Catchup, and one of Red Wine, ftew all together (with a few 
frefli Mufhrooms, or pickled ones, if you have any) till it is 
thick and fmooth, then difh it up and fend it to Table. You 
may cut a Hare in two, and flew the Fore-quarters thus, and 
roail the Hind-quarters with a Pudding in the Belly. 
^0 make Ci'vet cf a Hare. 

BONE the Hare, and take out all the Sinews, cut one 
Half in thin Slices, and the other Half in Pieces an 
inch thick, flour them, and fry them in a little freih Butter 
as Collops quick, and have ready fome Gravy, made good 
with the Bones of the Hare and Beef, put a Pint of it into the 
Pan to the Hare, fome Muftard, and a little Elder \''inegar ; 
cover it clofe, and let it do foftly till it is as thick as Cream, 
then difh it up with the Head in the Middle. 

To mince Hare. 

WASH your Hare clean from its Blood, then take fome 
Parfiey and Onion ard put into the Body, and boil it 
in Salt and Water till it is about half done, then take the 
Flelh from the Bones, and mince it fmall, Hired the Parlley 
and Onions, and put to them a Pint of ilrong Broth, or fmall 
Gravy, with fome Claret, and a little \'inegar, Pepper, and 
Salt, and let it ftew over a gentle Fire ; and when you think 
it is enough, take the Yolks of eight hard Eggs, and mince 
them as fmall as the reit, and put in a proper Quantity of 
melted Butter, fo fhake it well together, and ferve it up with 
Sippets, and Lemon for Garnilb. - 

To fry a Hare. 

LA Y it on a Gridiron, and when it is hot through, quar- 
ter it, and fry it with Hog's Lard. For the Sauce, toafl 
Bread, foak it in Beef-Broth and White Wine, put in fome 
beaten Ginger and Cloves, and ftrain it ; add a little Ver- 
juice ; and ferve it up with Butter, Sugar, Muilard, and the 
yuice of Lemon. Garnifh the Difh with Greens and Slices 
of Lemon. 

A good IFay to- diefi a Hare. 

CU T off the V/ings and Legs whole, and cut the refl in 
Pieces ; lard them with Bacon, and tofs them up in 
Butter, put to them fome llrong Broth and White Wine, fome 
fweet Herbs, Salt, Pepper, Nutmeg, and flicM Lemon ; pound 
the Liver in a Mortar ; and ftrain it through a Sieve, with a 
VealCullis, and fome of the Liquor the Hare is ile wed in, 
pour it on the Harp, and ferve it hot. 
^ To 



^be L A D y 's C o m p a n i n. 341 

To hajh a Hare. 

("^ A S E and draw your Hare, cue it in Pieces, wafh thcni 
J in Water and Claret, ftrain the Liquor, and parboil your 
Pieces of Hare: Lay them in a Difri v/ith the Head, Leg?, 
and Shoulders whole ; divide the Chine into feveral Parts ; 
put in fome of the Liquor in which you parboiled it, add to 
it two or three fliced Onions, fet them a Hewing over a gentle 
Eire between two Dilhts, till it is tender j add Tome Nutmeg, 
Mace, and beaten Pepper ; lay Sippets, and garnifli with 
Barberries and Lemon, and ierve it up. 

Another Way to roaji a Hare. 

SHRED the Marrow of an Ox Marrow-bone, with an 
Onion, Savoury, Thyme, andPariley, very fmall j feafon 
with Salt and Nutmeg ; roll thefe up in a Piece of Butter, 
and put it into the Hare's Belly ; fpit it, and baile it for the 
firil Time with Cream, but afterwards with Butter ; make a 
Sauce of Claret, with an Anchovy, a Blade of Mace, and 
melted Butter very thick. When the Hare is roafted enough, 
take it up, take the Pudding out of its Belly, and waih it all 
over with Butter, and ferve it up. 

To roaft a Hare nx:ith its Skin on. 

TAKE out the Bowels, wipe the Infide with a clean 
Cloth, make a Pudding as directed in any of the fore- 
going Receipts, and put it into the Belly, few it up, and 
thrull your Hand round him between the Skin and his Body, 
and rub over his Flefh Butter and Spice, incorporated toge- 
ther ; then few up the Hole of the Skin, and roall him ; bail- 
ing him with boiling Water and Salt, till it is above half 
roailed, then let him dry, and the Skin fmoke, pull it off bv 
Pieces, then balle him with Butter, drudge him with Flour, 
grated Bread, and Spice. Sauce him with drawn Butter, or 
Gravy and Claret. Garnifh with flic'd Lemon and Bacon. 

To roaj} a Hare another Wa)\ 

LARD the Hare with, fmall Lardoons, take grated 
Bread, Eggs, grated Nutmeg, Sugar, and Currants, add 
a little Salt, and beaten Cinnamon ; you may add a Hide 
Cream ; make all thefe into a Pudding, put it into the Hare's 
Belly, fpit and roall it ; for this Venilbn-fauce is proper. 



0.3 To 



342 ne Lady's Companion. 

To drefi a Hare the Swifs TVay, 

YO U may cut the Hare into Quarters, lard them, put 
them into a Stew-pan with good Broth; and a little 
Wine, feafon with Salt, Pepper, and Cloves ; while they are 
ftewing, tofs up the Blood and Liver, with a little Flour, in a 
Stew-pan, put in fome Capers, fton'd Olives, and a Drop of 
Vinegar, and ferve it up. 

To fiewo a Hare the French Way. 

TAKE a Hare, cafe it, and wafh it, cut Slices of Veal 
or Pork cf about two Fingers thick, put them, with the 
Hare, into a Stew-pan, with Onions fry'd in Hog's Hard, half 
cover it with Beef-Broth, and ilew it over a gentle Fire, and 
as the Liquor waftes, put in more Broth ; toaft fome Bread 
well, parboil the Livers of Half a Dozen Fowls, fteep them in 
fome Beef-Broth, feafoning it with Salt, long Pepper, Nut- 
meg, Cloves, and Cinnamon j add to it a little Claret and 
Vinegar, llrain thefe, and put the Liquor to the Hare as it 
flews ; when they are llew'd enough, difh them up. 

^ j -digged Hare. 

CU T it into little Pieces, lard them here and there with 
little Slips of Bacon, feafon them with a very little Pep- 
per and Salt, put them into an earthen Jug, with a Blade. or 
two of Mace, an Onion fluck with Cloves, and a Bundle of 
fwcet Herbs \ cover the Jug or Jar you do it in, fo clofe that 
nothing can get in ; then fet it in a Pot of boiling Water, 
kiep the Water boiling, and three Hours will do it : Then 
turn it out into the Dilh, and take out the Onion and fweet 
Herbs, and fend i: to Table hct. 

To boil a Hare the French Way. 
*^ir^ A KE a Marrow-bone v/ith a good deal of Beef upon 
J[ it, and a Piece of Bacon, boil thefe v^itn your Hare, 
putting in fome Sr.lt; when the Bare is almoft enough, take 
it up, bruife ib i.e Peafe, and boil them in the Brctli ; ':ake 
av/av the Bone from the Beef, and put in your Hare again, 
hmrit till the Peafe are enough, then (train the Peafe through 
a Cloth, and boil the Pulp in a "\ciTel by ther,felves. I ay 
llie Hare in the Dilh, and pour the Pulp of the Pe?{e over ii, 

and ferve it up. 

% 



Rabbits 



I'he L A D y's C m p a n I g n. 343 

Rabbits Portuguefe^ 

GET Tome Rabbits, trufs them Chicken-fafhlon, and 
laid therxi ; the Head mull be cut off, and the Rabbit 
tarn^d with the Back upward, and two of the Legs llripp'd to 
the Claw-end and lb trufsM with two Skewers -, then lard 
them, or roaft or boil them with Spinach, Cauliflowers, and 
Bacon, as Chickens. 

Rabbits 'vcith Onions. 

WHEN you have trufs'd your Rabbits clofe, walh them 
very v/ell, then boil them oit white ; boil your Onions 
^ii^themfelves, changing the Water two or three Times ; 
then let them be thoroughly ftrain'd, and chop them, and 
butter them very well ; put in a Gill of Cream, or Milk, 
ferve your Rabbits, and cover them over with Onions. 

Rabbits Surprize. 

ROAST off two or three half grown Rabbits, accordln^j 
to the Bignefs of your Difh ; cut off the Heads clofe by 
Jthe Shoulders, and the firft Joints ; then take out all the lean 
Meat from the Back-bones, and cut it, and tofs it up in fix 
or fcven Spoonfuls of Milk or Cream, with the Bignefs of 
Half an Egg of Butter, grated Nutmeg, Pepper, and Salt; 
thicken it with a little Dull of Flour, to the Thicknefs of a 
good Cream, then boil it, and fet it to cool ; then take the 
like Quantity of Forc'd-meat, and tofs it up likewife, and 
place it all round each of the Rabbits, leaving a long Trough 
in the Back open, that you think will hold the Meat you cut 
out with the Sauce ; then cover it with the fameFcrc'd meat, 
fmooth'd as well as you can with your Hand, and a raw Egg, 
fquare at both Ends, throw on them a little grated Bread ; 
then butter a Mazarine or Pan, and take them from the 
Dreffer, where you formed them, and place them on it. Bake 
them three Qiiarters of an Hour before you ferve them, till 
they are of a fine brown Colour : Let your Sauce be Butter, 
Gravy, and Lemon, and your Garnilhing flic'd Orange and 
fry'd Pariley ; fo ferve it for the firil Courfe. 

To boil Rabbits. 

TRUSS them for boiling, boil them quick and white : 
For Sauce take the Livers, boil and ftred them, and 
fome Parfley ihred nne, and pickled Nafturtium Buds chopped 
fine, or Capers ; mix thele with Flalf a Pint of good Gravy, 

0^4 a Glafs 



344 ^^^ Lad y*s Co m p a n i o n, 

a Glafs of White Wine, a little beaten Mace and Nutmeg, a 
little Pepper and Salt, if wanted, a Piece of Butter as big as a 
large Walnut roll'd in Flo-ur, let it all boil together till it is 
thick, take up the Rabbits, and pour the Sauce over them. 
Garnifh with Lemon and Barberries. You may lard them 
with Bacon if it is liked. 

J not her Tf^ay. 

PRICK the Rabbit down to their Shoulders, gathering 
up their Hind-legs to their Bellies, lard them with Ba- 
con, if you pleafe, and boil them white : When they arc 
boiled, take their Livers, and mince them fmall, with fat Ba- 
con boiled ; then put to it White Wine, ftrong Broth, and 
V inegar, altogether about Half a Pint ; boil thefe with fomc 
whole Mace, fame Barberries, and a little minced Parfley, put 
to thefe a Ladleful of drawn Butter ; difh your Rabbits on 
Sippets, pour your Sauce over them ; garnifli the Didi with 
Barberries and Slices of Lemons. 

% boil Rabbits ivith Saufages. 

BOIL a Couple of Rabbits ; when almoft boiled, put in 
a Pound of Saufages, and boil with them ; when done 
enough, dilh the Rabbits, placing a Saufage here and there 
one, with fome fry'd Slices of Bacon. For Sauce, put Muf- 
tard and melted Butter beat up together in a Cup, and ferve 
them hot. You may boil a povvder'd Goofe the fame Way. 

Another IVay. 

BO I L a Rabbit in a little Mutton-Broth ; put to it two 
or three Glafles of White Wine, and a Blade of Mace ; 
then take a Lettuce, fome Spinach, Parfley, Winter Savoury, 
and Sweet-marjoram ; and after being wafli'd, put them in 
your Stew-pan to the Rabbit ; and after ftewing a little 
while, take the Greens out, thicken the Liquor with a Piece 
of Butter rolled in Flour, feafon v/ith Pepper and Salt, with 
u Dafh or two of Vinegar ; cut Sippets, and place at the Bot- 
tom of your Diih ; then put the Rabbit on them, and pour 
the Liquor over it. Garnifh with Barberries, and fome of the 
boiPd Herbs. 

brother M'ay. 

AFTER your Rabbit is trufs'd, put into the Belly fome 
Oyfters, after being parboil'd, and «i Anchovy minc'd; 
then put it into a Stew^-pan, with a Pint of White Wine, a 
laree Han«^ful of Spinach, the Yolks of hard Eggs cut in 

Quar- 



W<? Lad v's Companion. 345 

Quarters, a Faggot of fweet Herbs, a little Salt, let alUlew 
together ; when near enough, cut open the Belly ot the Rab- 
bit, and take out theOyllers that they may have aBcil ; then 
dilh your Rabbit with Sippets under it, and lay over it fome 
fcalded Grapes or Goofeberries ; then pour over the Broth, 
after you have thickend it with Butter roil'd in Flour, or a 
Cullis. Garnifh with Lemon fiiced, and fome of theOyfters. 

Afi Efclope of Rabbits. 

GET {o'TQ JRabbits, cut them in Quarters, and flew 
them a la Braife, as you do feveral other Things ; 
then make a Ragoo of Veal Sweetbreads, Fowls Livers, 
Cccks-com S; M-orels-, Mufhrooms, and Truffies : Tofs tliem 
all up together in a Stew-pan, with melted Bacon ; moiften 
it with Gravy, and let it fimmer Half an Hour, then take the 
Fat clean oft", and bind it wiih a Cullis of Veal and Ham ; 
Take up your llevv"ed Rabbits, and put them into yourRagoo, 
where let them lie till they are cold : Raife a Pye of thin 
Parte, and put your cold Ragoo and Rabbits in it, cover it 
with a Lid of the fame Pafte, and turn down the Edges, that 
the Top may be as plain as the Bottom ; fo fet it into the 
Oven : When it is baked, turn it upfide down into the Difh, 
make a Hole in it to lee if it be dry : and if it be, po*ir in 
fome good Cullis, and ierve it hot for the iirft Courie. 

We make Efclopes of all Sorts of Fovvls tame and wild, firft 
ftewed a la Biaife with Ragoos, in the fame Manner a3 this 
of Rabbits, 

To bake Rabbits. 

FIRST lay by the Livers, divide the Rabbits into Quar- 
ters, lard them with large Lardoons of Bacon well fea- 
fon'd, and with lean Ham ; lay Bards of Bacon all over the 
Bottom of a Stew-pan, and upon them Slices of Veal, feafon\i 
with Salt, Pepper, Spices, flic'd Onions, fweet Herbs, Cives 
Parfley, Parfnips, and Carrots ; lay your Quarters of Rabbhs 
uponthefe, and then lay the fame Roots and Seafoning over 
them, that you did under them ; lay Slices of Veal, and cover 
all over with Bards of Bacon j then either bake them in an 
Oven, or under a Baking-cover : While they are baking, 
make a Cullis as follows : Cut Slices of Veal and Bacon, 
beat them, lay them in theBbttom of a Stew-pan, put to ihem 
Carrots, Parfnips, ^nd Onions flic'd ; let it Hand over a n cde- 
rate Fire, and whtn it begins to (lick to the Bottom of the -l .v- 
pan, moillen it with a little melted Bacon, drudge it with Flour, 
0.5 fti 



34^ IT/^^ La D y's Com p AN I N. 

ftir it all together ; then put to it a little Gravy, and a little 
iirong Broth, and three or four Cloves, fome whole Gives, a 
little Parfiey, Mu{hrooms and Truffles cut in Pieces, and fome 
Cruils of Bread ; let all thefe fimmer together ; then pound 
the Livers of the Rabbits in a Mortar, and put to them a little 
of the Liquor of the Cullis, and then put them into a Cullis ; 
when they have fimmer 'd a little, ftrain all through a Sieve ; 
your Rabbits being baked, drain them, put them into your 
Cullis, fet them over the Fire, and give them a Simmer or 
tvv'o ; then dilTi them, pour your Cullis upon them, and ferve 
them up hot for a firfl Courfe. 

1^0 hake Rabbits ~viih Slices of Bacon. 

HAVIN G laid by the Livers of your Rabbits, cut them 
into Quarters, and lard them with large Lardoons of 
-Kacon well ieafon'd, and with the Lean of a Ham ; then lay 
m the Bottom of a Stew-pan Bacon, and Slices of Veal, fea- 
fon'd with Salt, Pepper, flic'd Onions, and fweet Herbs ; add 
ulfo Gives, Parfiey, Carrots, and Parfnips flic'd ; then lay in 
che Quarters of Rabbits, lay over them the fame Seafoning 
you did under them, with Slices of Carrots, Parfnips, Veal, 
laid Bards of Bacon ; then either fet them into an Oven, or 
under a Baking-Cover, with Fire both over and under them ; 
then make a Ragoo called Saui^a}az^i\i\xs : Cut fome Slices 
of Gammon of Bacon, beat them well, tofs them up with a 
little melted Bacon and Flour, put to them fome good Gravy 
Vv'ichout any Salt in it, and a Bunch of fweet Herbs ; let all 
thefe ikw together ; then put in a little Vinegar, and bind 
the Sauce with a good Cullis : When your Rabbits are baked 
enough, take them out of the Pan, lay them to drain -, then 
put to them the Saingaraz, and let them llmmer in it for a 
little while ; diih them, pour the Saingaraz over them, and 
ferve them up to Table for a firil Courfe. 

You may alfo bake Rabbits with Ragoos of Cucumbers, 
and of Endive. 

To hajh Rabbits. 

GET fome Rabbits, vvaih them, pick the Flefh from off 
the Bones, after being half roailed, and mince it fmall, 
adi to it a little good Mutton-Broth, a Shalot or two, a little 
Nutmeg Q-rated, and a little Vinegar, llew'd together; put 
in a good" Piece of Butter, a Handful of Hired Parfley, ferve 
it uron Sippets, garnilh'd with Slices of Lemon. 

"To 



"The Lad y's Com panion. ^47 

To roajl Rabbits. 

DON'T fpit them Back to Back, but fkewer thein ur 
Side to Side : While they are roalHng, boil fome Parr 
ley, mince it, and likewile the Livers very fmall, and mix 
them with melted Butter : When they are enough, difh them, 
pour the Sauce over them, and ferve them up. 

Or elfe make your Sauce with the Liver minced with fome 
Bacon and Beef-lewet, Thyme, Parfley, fweet Marjoram, 
and \^'inter-iavoury, fhred fmall, with the Yolks of hard 
Eggs minced ; let all thefe be boiPd in firong Broth and 
\'inegar \ then put to it drawn Butter, grated Nutmeg, and 
a little Sugar ; garniih with Slices of Lemon. 

To dreji Rabbits in Cajferole. 

DIVIDE the Rabbits into Quarters, you may lard 
them, or let them alone juil as you pleafe, fhake fome 
Klour over them, and fry them with Lard or Butter, then 
put them into a Stew-pan with a Quart of good Broth, a 
Glafs of White Wine, a little Pepper and Salt, if wanted, a 
Bunch of f^veet Herbs, i^nd a Piece of Butter as big as a Wal- 
nut rolled in Flour; cover them clofe, and let them ftew Half 
an Hour, tlien diih them up, and pour the Sauce over them, 
Garnifh with Se-jillt Orange cut into thin Slices and notched ; 
the Peel that is cut out, lay between the Slices. 

"To roafi P^abbits ivith a Farce in their Bodies. 

TA K £ a Couple of Rabbits, parboil them, cut off their 
Heads, and tirll: Joints of their Legs ; make a Farce 
for them of their Livers minced with a Mufhroom, aTruflie, 
a few Cives, and fomo Parfley minced, and feafcred with 
Salt, Pepper, and Nutmeg j add a good Handful of fcraped 
Bacon ; then pound all together in a Mortar ; and having- 
lluffed the Bellies of the Rabbits with fome of this Farce, 
Ikewer them together, and lard them with lean Ham, fat Ba • 
con, and Slices of V^eal, wrap them up in Paper, fpit ami 
roaft them : When they are enough, put fome CuUis or Ef- 
fence of Ham in a Dilh, take off the Bards of Baccn, dil;i 
them, and ferve them up hot for a firft Courfe. 

You may ftuff their Bodies with Oyilers, after being 
blanch'd, with an Anchovy minced. 



34S ne Lady's Companion. 

7"^ /fou Rabbits. 

GET two or three Rabbits, boil them till they are half 
enough, cut them into Pieces in the Joints, and cut the 
Meat ofFfrom the Bone in Pieces, leaving Ibme Meat on the 
Bones ; then put Meat and Bones into a good Quantity of the 
Liquor in which the Rabbits were parboiPd ; let it over a 
Chaling-diih of Coals, between two Diihes, and let it ftew, 
feafon with Salt, and grofs Pepper, and then put in fomeCil ; 
and before you take it off the Fire, fqueeze in fome Juice of 
Lemon : When it has ftewed enough, ferve up ail together 
m the Difh. 

To ficTv Rabbits the French Wny. 

DIVIDE your Rabbits into Quarter^, lard them with 
pretty large Lardoons of Bacon, fry them, Itew them- 
in a Stew-pan, with ftrong Broth, Vv^hiteWine, Salt, Pepper, 
-^ Faggot of fweet Herbs, fry'd Flour and Orange. 

To minnhlc Rabbits or Chickens. 

PUT into the Bellies of your Rabbits, or Chickens, fome 
Panley, an Onion, and the Liver ; fet it over the Fire in 
the Stew -pan with as much Water as wall cover them, w^ith 
little Salt i when they are half boiFd take them out, and 
'h;ed the Pariley, Liver, and Onion, and tear the Flefh from 
fhe Bones of the Rabbit in \\.\?A\ Flakes, and put into the 
Stew-pan again, with a very hit'e of theLiquor it was boiled 
in, and a Pint of White Wine, and fome Gravy, and Half a 
Pound or more of Butter, and fome grated Nutmeg : When 
!t is enough, Ihake in a little Flour, and thicken it up with 
Butter. Serve it on Sippets. 

To roajl Teals nuhh Olives, 

MINCE the Livers with Parfley, Onions, fine Herbs, 
Muihrooms, fcraped Bacon, and a Bit of Butter, mix 
all together, and put it into the Bodies of your Teal, then 

• blanch them with a little Batter, Parfley, and an Onion, then 
wrap them up in Slices of Bacon and Paper, and roail them j 
and while they are roafting take fome Olives, take out the 

.•Stones, and blanch them : put them in a Stew-pan with a 

* iittie Veal-gravy and EfTence of Ham, and let them have a 
Boil. YourTeais being ready, take oi? the Paper and Bacon, 
and difh them up with your Ragoo of Olives over them. 

Teals 



^he Lady's Companion. 34$ 

Teals nvith Shalots. 

PREPARE them as before and roaft them, take fome 
Shalots, mince them very fmall, and put them in a Stew- 
pan, with wanii Water, and a little Gravy, Salt, and Pepper; 
let them juft boil. Your Teals being ready, take off the Paper 
and Bacon, put them into the Difh, pour the Sauce over 
them, after it is thickened ; fqueeze a little Juice of an Orang« 
into it. 

Teals iviih Oyfters. 

STUFF their Bodies as before dire^ed, mincing fome 
blanched Oyflers with the Stuffing ; then wrap them up 
in Slices of Bacon and Paper, and roaft them; then take 
iome Oyfters, and blanch them in their own Liquor, which 
ftrainoff; put in a Stew-pan fome of their Liquor, a good 
Lump of Butter, fome Salt, Pepper, Nutmeg grated, a Dull of 
Flour, and a Dalh of Vinegar, let it over the Fire to thicken, 
then put in your Oyllers; let the Wiiole be relifhing. Difh 
up your Teals, and pour your O) fter Ragoo over them. 

At another Time }ou may ferve them up with fome 
blanched Parfley minced, and a minced Anchovy, with Le- 
mons cut in Dice. 

7o boil Teal. 

LET your Teal be large : When they are drawn and 
trufs'd, ftuff them with the following Farce : Take 
Oyfters, Sage, Winter-favoury, Thyme, and Parlley, ftripp'd 
and minced fmall ; make them up into a Ball with Butter 
and Pepper, ftifFen'd with Flour j put this Ball into the Belly 
of the Teal, and tie up the Neck and Vent clofe : Make 
your Water boil, put in the Fowl ; when they are boiPd ten- 
der, difh them on Sippet , with Gravy, Anchovy-fauce, and 
the Herbs ; laying blanch'd Oyfters, with fome fliced Lemon 
and Parfley, about the Difh Rim. 

To boil Raies. 

CUT off their Heads and Legs, trufs them, and put them 
into a Stew-pan with ftrong Broth, and Half a Pint of 
White Wine, feafbn with Salt, Pepper, whole Mace and Cur- 
rants ; when they are enough, difh them on Sippets, thicken 
the- Broth with grated Manchet and Butter, diilolve a little 
Sugar in Water, Juice of Lemon, and put to the Broth : 
Garnifh with Slices of Orange or Lemon, and ferve them up. 

To 



g5o ^^^ Lady's Companion. 

7o roafl a Hern. 

LET the Hern be well pick'd, parboil it, lard the Breaft 
and Back, roaft it, barte it with White Wine and Butter 
beaten up together, drudge it with Iweet Herbs minced very 
fmall, and grated Bread ; make a Sauce of the Yolks of Eggs 
beaten, Anchovies, a little Claret and Vinegar : When it is 
roalled, ferve it up i garniih with Lemon and Orange. 

To Jie--^v a Heath -Cock. 

FLEA off the Skin, but leave the Rump, Legs, and Pi- 
nions whole ; then mince the JFlefh with Beef- few et, 
feafon it with Salt, Pepper, and fweet Herbb minced, and raw 
Yolks of Eggs, mix thefe all well together with three Arti- 
choke-Bottoms boird, roafted ar:d blanch'd Chefnuts, Mar- 
row or Beef-fewet, and Skirrets boiPd, and minced pretty 
fmall ; then fill the Skin, and prick it up on the Back, flew 
it in a deep Stew-pan, with flrong Broth, Marrow, large 
Mace, White Wine, Salt,. boiPd A.rtichokes quarter'd. Chef- 
nuts, Barberries, Grapes, and Ptars quarter'd, and fome of 
the minc'd Meat made up into Balls : When it is done, ferve 
it up with Sippets, and garnifh with Slices of Lemon, run it 
over with beaten Butter, garnifh the Difh with the Yolks of 
hard Eggs, large Mace, and Chefnuts blanch'd. 

fo hail or Jienv Sea-Fowls. 

TA KE a Swan, wild or tame Goofe, Duck, Mallard, 
Teal, Gulls, Shoveler, Bittern, Widgeon, Hern, Shel- 
drakes, Pcwets, Barnacles, Whooper, Puffin, Crane, ^r. 
Bone them all but the Legs ; then make a Farce of Miuton, 
Venifon, and Beef-fevvet, mi-.ced fmall with favoury Herbs, 
feafon'd v/ith Pepper, Nutmeg, Cloves, and Mace ; mix the 
minced Meat with raw Eggs, and add to them Oyfters par- 
boil'd in their own Liquor ; fill the Body of the Fowl with 
this Farce, and prick it up on the Back ; then put into a 
Stew-pan flrong Broth, White Wine, and Oyfler- liquor. Mar- 
row boiPd, Cloves, and Mace, and put in your Fowl, and fee 
them over a Stove to Hew : In the mean Time, flew CyJlers 
^by themfelves in White Wine, and Butter, with Onions, Pep- 
per, and Mace, Artichoke-Bottonis, and put beaten Butter 
and boiPd Marrow to them : When all is ready, difh your 
Fowls on Sippets, and pour over them the Stew, and garnifh 
the Difh with fry'd Oyflers and grated Bread, • and ferve up 
hot, 



ne Lady's Companion* 351 

To Jieiv Wild Fowls. 

HALF roail them i then cut them into little Bits ; when 
cold put them into a Stew-pan, with a little Claret and 
Water, a Sprig of fweet Herbs, a little whole Pepper, Nut- 
meg and Salt, a little of each, one Anchovy, a Slice of Le- 
mon ; let it Hew till tender ; then thicken it with burnt But- 
ter; fo ferve them up on Sippets, and Lemon ilic'd, or Hew 
them only in Gravy. 

S A u c E s for Poultry, 

Stuffing for broiTd Pigeons. 

TAKE the Livers of your Pigeons, and fome Par/ley 
and Shalot, and fat Bacon, a Bit of Anchovy, the 
Yolk of an hard Egg, a little grated Bre?.d, and a little Mar- 
row ; Ihred all thei'e together vQ.ry fine, feafon it with Salt 
and Pepper to your Tafte, and wet it with a liule Cream ; 
then fluff your Pigeons, and few them up ; fry them in fome 
Butter, and after that turn them on a Gridiron quick. 

To jluff the Crop of a Turky. 

TAKE two Ounces of lean Veal, two Ounces of fat 
Bacon, Half the Liver of the Turky, the fat Part of 
four Oyfters, a fmall Onion, fome Thyme, Pariley, and Le- 
mon-peel, Pepper, Salt, and Nutmeg, Half a good Pippin, 
fome grated Bread, the Yolk of an Egg, and Butter to roll it 
up in ; you may add Cream if you pleafe ; beat all thefe in a 
Mortar till it is as fine as a Paite -, fo fill the Crop of your 
Turky. 

Stuffing for a ftuhhle Goofe. 

TAKE Half the Goofe's Liver, fome Sage and Parfley, 
Onion as big as a Nutmeg, Pepper, Salt, and grated 
Bread, with fome Butter or Cream to wet it \ put more Sage 
than Parfley. 

Sauce for boird Chickens. 

TAKE two hard Egg?, the Yolks only, fhred them as 
fine as poffible, take the Livers of the Chickens and 
juft fet them j then fhred them very fine, and put the Eggs 
and Livers into fome Gravy, and iqueeze in a Lemon to your 
Tarte, thicken and tofs them up all together with a little fhred 
Parfley. Garnifh with Lemon. 



Jnother 



352 The La D y's Com pak i on. 

Another Sauce for boiled Chickens or Lamb. 

TAKE a little White Wine and a Pint of Claret, a few 
Sprigs of fweet herbs, a little whole Pepper, and Mace, 
three Slices of Lemon ; let it ftew a little ; then put in a little 
Parfley and Spinach boil'd green, and chopp'd a little ; then 
beat it up thick with fiX Ounces of freih Butter, and pour it 
over the Meat, and ferve it. Garnifii it with Lemon diced, 
and Barberries, Grapes, and Goofeberries Icalded, in their 
Seafon. - 

Afiothe' -Way. 

BOIL Artichokes till the Leaves are tender, then fcrape 
off all the Meat, and leave the Bottoms whole, then boil 
the Livers of the Chickens fo that they will fpread like Pafte, 
and put to them a little Parfley boil'd and minced, then put 
your fcraped Artichokes, Livers, and Parfley, into a Stew-pan, 
with fome Butter and Veal-gravy; and when your Sauce is 
hot, pour it over your Chickens. You muft lay the Ar- 
tichoke-BottoniS whole under the Chickens. Garnilh with 
Lemon. 

Sauce Jlr Capons. 

TAKE the Necks of your Capons, and boil them in a 
little Water, with a whole Onion and two Anchovies 
cut fmall, and a little white Pepper, and catch the Gravy 
that runs from the Capons, and put it to your Liquor, take- 
ing out the Necks, Onion, and Pepper, put in a little Batter, 
and fhake it about ; fo ferve it up with fliced Lemon. 

J Sauce foon made for a Fowl. 

OIL the Liver of the Fowl in a few Spoonfuls of Waters 
^ _ after which, bruife the Liver in a fmall Quantity of the 
Liquor it was boiPd in; add a litcle Lemn-peel, very fine; 
melt fome good Butter, and mix the Liver therein ; let it 
juft boil up, and put it into the Difh, with the Fowl. 

Sauce for a Turky. 

TAKE a little Claret and ftrong Broth, or Water, An- 
chovy, one Shalot, a little Pepper, Mace, and Salt, and 
a Slice of Lemon ; fet it to ftew a little, then ftrain it, and 
pour it through its Belly. Serve it with Onion-fauce. Boil 
them in three or four Waters, then drain them dry, chop 
them a little broad; lay 'them round the Turky; butttfr 
them, and ferve them only with Gravy. 

The 



B 



"The Lady's Companion. 353 

The fame for a Capon, only add the Necks, and a few 
Sprigs of fweet Herbs. 

Another Way. 

TAKE Haifa Pint of Claret^ as much llrongBrOth, an 
Onion, a little whole Pepper, an Anchovy, and a little 
Btatter ; let it Hew a Quarter of an Hour, and pour it through 
the Body of the Turky. Garnifli the Difli with Lemons and 
Onions. 

Sauce for a boiled Turky. 

A Little Water, or Mutton-gravy, if you have It, a 
Blade of Mace, an Onion, a little Bit of Thyme, a 
little Bit of Lemon -peel, and an Anchovy ; boil all thefe to- 
gether, ftrain them through a Sieve, melt fome Gutter, and 
add to them j and fry a few Saufages, and lay round the Difh. 
Garnifli your Difh with Lemon. 

A Sauce for Turkles or Capons. 

HAVING got Half a Pint of White Wine, and a little 
Gravy, and Oyfter-Iiquor, and a little grated Nutmeg, 
put to it three or four large Onions, boiPd tender and mafh'd 
fmall, v/ith a lit le fmall Pepper, and two or three Anchovies 
minced fmall, boil it a Quarter of an Hour, with a little grated 
white Bread, and put to it a Piece of Butter, and then put it 
to the Fowls, being roafted. 

A good Sauce for Teal, Mallards, Ducks, i^c, 

TAKE a Quantity of Veal gravy, according to theBig- 
nefs of your Difh of Wild-Fowl, feafon'd with Pepper 
and Salt; fqueeze in the Juice of two Oranges, and a little 
Claret : This will ferve all Sorts of W"ild-Fowl. 

Another Sauce yor Wild-Fowl. 

TAKE Half a Pint of Claret, a little Oyfler-liquor, 
a little Gravy, and three or four Shalots ; let it boil a 
Quarter of an Hour, with a little grated Bread, and put to it 
two Anchovies minced, and a little Butter, and fhake it well 
together, and put it to your Fowl, being roafted, and ferve 
them up. 



Sauce 



354 !rZ?^ Lady's Companion. 

Sauce for Wild Ducks. 

GET a little Handful of Sage, one large Onion ftired 
fmall ; feafon it with a little Salt, and roll them up 
with Butt.r into Balls, then put them in the Ducks, androall 
them ; then take Half a Pint of Claret, diiTolve in it two An- 
chovies ; then take Half as much Butter as Wine, then thicken 
them with the Yolks of two Eggs, then put your Ducks in 
your Difii, and pour your Sauce through them, and pull out 
your Balls j fo ferve them. 

Saucey^??* any Sort of Sea Fowl roafted. 

PU T Half a Pint of Claret, and a Quarter of a Pint cf 
Wine Vinegar into a Sauce-pan, with an Ounce of Su- 
gar, fome grated Bread, fome Ginger and Cinnamon beaten, 
boil them up, and ftrain them ; then put in a Sprig of Rofe- 
mary, a little red Saunders, and two or three whole Cloves ; 
boil them again till it is pretty thick ; put this Sauce in your 
Difli, lay the Fowls upon it, and fervc it up. 

^To make Spanifh Sauce. 

RO A ST a Partridge, pound it well in a Mortar with 
good Gravy, with the Livers of Partridges, and fome 
Pieces of Truffles, but put not in too much Gravy, but let it 
be pretty thick ; let it Hand in a Difh for a while; then pu* 
a Couple of GlaiTes of Burgun/' or Claret into a Stew-pan, 
with two or three Slices c Onions, a Clove or two of Gar- 
lick, and a Couple of G ? "^s of the Sauce; then flrain it 
through a Sieve into the St; -pan, pour the Cullis upon it, 
kt it "all be well feafon'd, add a little of Gammon EfTence, 
and let all boil for fome Time ; this Sauce is proper for Par- 
tridges roailed, and cut in Pieces. * 

Sauce for Snipes. 

YOUR Snipes being roafled, take them off, and take 
cut the Intrails and the Liver, put them in a Stew-pan, 
fqualh them, feafon them with r erper and Salt, and nioillen 
them with a little Red Wine,ci.t your Snipes into the Sauce, 
and if the Sauce be not thick enough, put in it two or three 
Spoonfuls of Veal or Ham Cullis, or a Piece of Butter rolled 
in Flour ; put it over the Fire, let it be of a good Tafte, and 
when hot, fqueeze into it the Juice of two Oranges, and ferve 
it up hot. 

The fame will do for Woodcocks. 

Sauce 



The Lady's Companion. 255 

Sauce for Quails. 

GET fome Vine Leaves, and dry them before the Fire, 
then mince them, after which, put them into a Stew- 
pan with Half a Pint of -Water and a Gill of Wine, either 
Red or White, a little Pepper and Salt; when ilew'd a little 
put in a Piece of Butter. 

This Sauce is alfo for roafted Pigeons. 

Sauce y^r ^z Woodcock. 

TAKE a very little Claret, fome good Gravy, a Blade 
of Mace, fome whole Pepper and Shalot ; let thefe 
flew a little, then thicken it up with Butter ; roail the Guts 
Ml the Woodcock, and let them run on Sippets, or aToaft of 
white Bread, and lay it under your Woodcock, and pour the 
Sauce in the Difh. 

Sauce y^T^ Woodcock or Pheafant. 

TA K E a little Claret and Water, one Shalot^ a little 
whole Pepper, Mace, a little grated white Bread, and 
Nutmeg ; flice it a little thin, put in a Piece of frefh Butter. 
Serve it with Sippets and Lemon llic'd. Roafl the Guts in 
them. The fame Way for Pheafants, with roafted Wild 
Fowl round them. Put the Fowl-fauce in the Difh with it. 
Put the Pheafant- fauce by in a Plate. 

Sauce /or a Hare. 

HA L F a Pint of Red Wine, and a little Oyfler-IIquor* 
and put to it fome good Gravy, and a large Onion 
ftuck with Cloves, and feme whole Cinnamon, and Nutmeg, 
cut in Slices ; then let it boil till the Onion is boii'd tender ; 
then take out the Onion and whole Spice, and put to it three 
Anchovies, and a Piece of Butter ; ihake it up well together, 
and fend it to the Table. 

Another Way. 

A Pint of Cream, and Half a Pound of frefh Butter ; put 
them in a Stew-pan, and keep ftirring it with a Spoon 
till all the Butter is melted, and the Sauce is thick j then take 
up the Hare, and pour the Sauce into the Difh. 



Another 



35^ ^i>e Lady's Companion, 

Another Way. 

MAKE good Gra\7, thicken'd with a little Piece of 
Butter rolled in Flour, and pour it into your Difh. You 
may leave the Butter out, if you don't like it, and have fome 
Currant Jelly warm'd in a Cup, or Red Wine and Sugar 
boiPd to a Syrup, done thus : Take Half a Pint of Red Wine, 
a Quarter of a Pound of Sugar, and fet over a flow Fire to 
fimmer for about a Quarter of an Hour. You may do Half 
the Quantity, and put it into your Sauce-boat er Bafon. 

Another Way 

BASTE it with a Pint of Ale, and when the Liquor is 
three Parts wafted, and the Blood of the Hare mix'd 
with it, then take up the Dripping-pan, and pour it into a 
Sauce-pan, and fet it by; then flour your Hare, and bafte it 
well with Butter, and put into the Pan fome Gravy, and 
fcrape up all the Brown among the Liquor, and then put to 
it the Ale, and run it through a Sieve, and thicken it up with 
Butter roird in Flour. You may ufe Cream inllead of Ale. 

Sauce for a boiled Goofe, 
U S T be either Onions or Cabbage, firll boiPd, and 
then flew'd in Butter for five Minutes. 

A Sance j^r Green-Geefe, or for young Ducks. 

GET Half a Pint of the Juice of Sorrel, and a little 
White Wine, a little grated Nutmeg, and a little grated 
Bread, let it boil a Quarter of an Hour, and put to it as much 
Sugar as will fweeten it ; if you pleafe, you may put in a few 
fcalded Goofeberries or Grapes, and a Piece of Butter, fhake 
it up thick, and put it to the Geefe, being roafted. This 
Sauce is proper for Chickens. 

French Sauce for a Goofe. 

HAVING drawn up fome Butter thick, mix in it a 
Spoonful or two of Muftard, fome 6ugar, Vinegar, and 
Barberries. 

Sauce for Land-Fowl. 

BOIL Prunes, and ftrain a little Pulp into a little of the 
Blood of the Fowl, then put in a little Ginger and Cin- 
namon powder'd ; put in alfo a little Sugar, and boil them 
to a pretty Thicknefs, and ferve it in a Diih with the Gravy 
of the Fowl. 

Sacce 



M 



^he Lady's Companion. 257 

Sauce for hoilid Rabbits injlead of Onions. 

BOIL the Livers, and fhred them very fmall, as alfo 
two Eggs, not boil'd too hard, a large Spoonful of 
grated white Bread, have ready fome ftrong Beef-Broth, 
and fweet Herbs ; to a little of that add two Spoonfuls of 
White Wine, and one of Vinegar; a little Salt, and fome 
'jButter ; ftir all in, and take care the Butter does not oil : 
Shred your Eggs very fmall. 



o 



Fretich Sauce for Rabbits. 

N I O N S minc'd fmall, fry'd, and mingled with Muflard 
and Pepper, 

Sauce for boiled Rabbits or Ducks, 

TO boird Rabbits or Ducks, you muil: pour boiPd 
Onions over them, which make thus : Take the 
Onions, peel them, and boil them in a great deal of Water ; 
fhift your Water, then let them boil about two Hours, take 
them up, and throw them into a Colander to drain ; then 
with a Knife chop them on a Board ; put them into a Sauce- 
pan, juil Ihake a little Flour over them, put in a little Milk 
or Cream, with a good Piece of Butter ; fet them over the 
Fire, and when the Butter is all melted, they are enough. 
But if you would have Onion-fauce in Half an Hour, take 
your Onions, peel them, and cut them in thin Slices, put 
them into Milk and Water ; and when the Water boils, 
they will be done in twenty Minutes ; then throw them into 
a Colander to drain, chop them, and put them into '. 
a Sauce-pan ; fhake in a little Flour, with a little Cream, if 
you have it, and a good Piece of Butter ; Ib'r all toge- 
ther over the Fire till the Butter is melted, and they will 
be very fine. 

This Sauce Is very good with roaft Mutton, and it is the 
beft Way of boiling Onions. 

Sauces for Partridges. 

TAKE a Bunch of Sellery clean v/a(h'd, cut all the White 
v#ry fmall ; wa(h it again very clean, put it into a 
Sauce-pan with a Blade of Mac^, a little beaten Pepper, and 
a very little Salt ; put to it a Pmt of Water, let it boil till the 
Water is jult wafted away; then add a Quarter of a Pint of 

Cream, 



I 



35^ ^^s Lady's Companion, 

Cream, and a Piece of Butter rolled in Flour ; ftir all toge- 
ther, and when it is thick and fine pour it over the Birds. 

Or take the Livers and bruife them fine. Tome Parfley 
chopp'd fine, melt a little nice frelli Butter, then add the Li- 
vers and Parfley to it, fqueeze in a little Lemon, jufl give it 
a Boil, and pour over your Birds. 

Or take a Quarter of a Pint of Cream, the Yolk of an Egg 
beat fine, a little grated Nutmeg, a little beaten Mace, a 
Piece of Butter as big as a Nutmeg roll'd in Flour, and one 
Spoonful of White Wine ; ftir all together one Way ; when 
fine and thick pour it over the Birds : You may add a few 
Mufhrooms. 

Or take a few Mufhrooms, peel and wafh them clean, put 
them in a Sauce-pan with a little Salt, put them over a very- 
quick Fire, let them boil up, then put in a Quarter of a Pint 
of Cream and a little Nutmeg ; Ihake them together with a 
■very little Piece of Butter rolled in Flour, give it two or 
three Shakes over the Fire, three or four Minutes will do ; 
then pour it over the Birds. 

Or boil Half a Pound of Rice very tender in Beef-gravy, 
feafon with Pepper and Salt, and pour over your Birds : Thefe 
Sauces do for boiPd Fowls, a Quart of Gravy will be enough, 
and let it boil till it is quite thick. 

Or take grated Bread, Water, and Salt, and an Onion, 
boil all together, and when boiPd fome Time, take out the 
Onion, and put in fome minced Lemon and a Piece of Butter, 
the Bignefs of a Walnut. 

To prefernje Cock's-combs. 

LE T them be well cleaned, then put them into a Pot 
with fome melted Bacon, and boil them a little. About 
Half- an Hour after, add a little Bay Salt, fome Pepper, a 
little Vinegar, a Lemon fliced, and an Onion ftuck with 
Cloves. When the Bacon begins to ftlck to the Pot, take 
them up, put them into the Pan you would keep them in, lay 
a clean Linnen Cloth over them, and pour melted Butter cla- 
rified over them, to keep them clofe from the Air. Thefe 
make a pVetty Plate at a Supper. 

Eutter'd Crumbs for Larks. 

PU T a Piece of Butter into a Stew-pan, and let it run to 
Oil ; then fkim it clean, and pour it off from the Settle- 
ment ', to this clear- Oil put grated Crumbs of Bread, and 
keep them ftirring till they are criip j when they are drain'd 
lay them round your Larks. 

Sauces 



^he Lady's Companion. 359 

S A u c E s /ffr roaji Pigeons or Doves, 

I. f> R AVY and Juice of Orange. 

\JJ 2. Boil'd Parfley minced, and put amongft fom6 
Butter and Vinegar beaten up thick. 

3. Gravy, Ciaret, and an Onion ftewed together with a 

little Salt. 

4. Vine Leaves roafted in the Bellies of the Pigeons, 
minced, and put in Claret and Salt, boil'd together, Ibme 
Butter and Gravy. 

5. Sweet Butter and Juice of Orange, beat together and 
made thick. 

6. Minced Onions boird in Claret almoll dry ; then puttOf 
it Nutmeg, Sugar, Gravy of the Fowl, and a little Pepper. 

7. Or Gravy-of the Pigeons only. 

Sauces for all Marnier of roafi Land Fowl, as, Turk/^. 

JBullard, Peacock, Pheafant, Partridge, l5c. 
I.QLICED Onions being boird, ftevv them in fome 
1^ Water, Salt, Pepper, fome grated Bread, and the Gravy 
of the Fowl. 

2. Take Slices of white Bread, and boil them in fair Wa' 
ter with two whole Onions, fome Gravy, Half a grated Nut- 
meg, and a little Salt ; flrain them together through a 
Strainer, and boil it up as thick as Water-Gruel ; then add 
to it the Yolks of two Eggs dillblved, with the Juice of two 
Oranges. 

3. Take thin Slices of Manchet, Gravy of the Fowl, fome 
fweet Butter, grated Nutmeg, Pepper, and Salt, ilevv all to- 
gether, and being ftewed, put in a Lemon fliced with the 
Peel. 

4. Onions fliced and boil'd in Water, and a little Salt, and||^ 
a few Bread Crumbs, beaten Pepper, Nutmeg, three Spoon- 
fuls of White Wine, and fome Lemon-peel fi-nely minced, 
and boiled all together j being almoft boiled, put in the 
juice of an Orange, beaten Butter, and the Gravy of the 
Fowl. 

5. Stamp fmall Nuts to a Pafte, wi'h Bread, Pepper, Saf- 
fron, Cloves, the Juice of an Orange, and llrong Broth, ftrain 
and boil them together very thick. 

6. Quince, Prunes, Currants, and Raifms boiFd mufkified 
Bifcuit, :; mped and ftrained, with White Wine, Pvofe Vine- 
gar, Nucmeg, Cinnamon, Cloves, Juice of Oranges, and Su- 
gar, boil it not too thick. 

7. Take 



35o 



"The Lady's Companion, 



7. Take a Mancliet, pare off the Cruft, and flice It, then 
boll it in fair Water, and being fomewhat thick, put in Ibme 
White Wine, Wine Vinegar, or Elder Vinegar, Sugar, and 
Butter. 

8. Almond Parte and Crumbs of Manchet, ftamp them 
together with fome Sugar, Ginger, and Salt, llrain them with 
Grape-Verjuice and Juice of Oranges ; boil it pretty thick. 



T^he _Manner of trujjtng a Goofe. 




AGoofe has no more than the thick Joints of the Legs 
and Wings left to the Body ; the Feet and the Pinions 
being cut off, to accompany the other Gibblets, which con- 
fill of the Head and >eck,'with tl^eLiver and Gizzard. 
Then at the Bottom of the AproiL of^tn^Goofe A, cut an 
Hole, and draw the Rump through it ; then pafs a Skewer 
through the fmall Part of the Leg, through the Body, near 
the Back, as at B, and another Skewer through the. thinneii 
Part of the Wings, and through the Body, near the Back, as 
at C, and it will be right. 



^he 



The Lady's COMPANION*. 



S6i 



fhe Manner of trujjlng a Chicken like a Turky-Poult, or of 
trujjlng a Turky-Poult. 




F T E R you have got a Chicken, cut a long Slit down 

the Neck, on the Fore -part ; then take out the Crop 

and the Merry-thought, as it is called ; then twift the Neck, 
and bring it down under the Back, till the Head is placed oa 
the Side of the left Leg ; bind the Legs in, with their Claws 
on, and turn them upon the Back. Then, between the Bend- 
ing of the Leg and tb.e 7'high, on the rigli': Side, pafs a 
Skewer thro' the Body of the Fowl ; and when it is through, 
run the Point thro' the Piead, by the fame Place of the Leg 
as you did before, as at A : Yournuil likewife pull the Rump 
B thro' the Apron of the Fowl. 

'Nate, The Neck is twilled like a Cord, and the bony P^rt 
of it muft be quite taken out, and the under Jaw of the Fowl 
taken away ; neither fhould the Li^'er and the Gizzard' be> 
ferved with it, though the Pinions are left on. Then turn 
the Pinions behind the Back, and pafs a Skewer through the 
extreme Joint, between the Pinion and the lower Joint of the 
Wing, through rhe Body, near the Back, as at C, and it will 
be fit to road in the falhionable iVIanner. 

7/ B. Always mind to beat down the Breafc-bone, and 
pick uie Head and Neck clean from the Feathers, before you. 
begin to trufs your Fowl. 

A Turky-Poult has no Merry-thought, as it is called ; and 
therefore, to imitate aTurky the better, we take it out of a 
Chicken through the Neck. 



Vol. L 



R 



THE 



362 The Lady's Companion, 




THE above FIGURE ihews the Manner how the 
Legs and Pinions will appear when they are turned to 
the Back j as alfo, the Pofition of the Head and Neck of the 
Chicken or Turky-Poult. 



fhe 



^he L A D y's C o m p a n I n.^ ^6^ 



7h£ Manner of trujjlng an Hare. 




Cx'\ S E an Hare, and in cafing it, jull: vvlien you come 
to the Ears, pafs a Skewer jail between the Skin aad 
the Head, and, byDegrees, raiie it up till the Skni leaves both 
the Ears flripp'd, and then take ofr the reft as ufual. Then 
give the Head a Twill over the Back, that ix. may Hand as at 
A, patting two Skewers in the Ears, part'y to make them 
iiand upright, and to fecui;^ the Head in a right Pofition ; 
then puih the Joint of the Shoulder-blade up as high as may 
be, towards the Back, and pafs a Skewer between the Joints', 
as at B, through the bottom Jaw of the Hare, which will 
keep it ileadyj then pafs another Skewer through the lower - 
Era.nch of the Leg at C, through the Ribs, palling clofe by 
the Blade-bone, to ke.p that up tight, and another throup;li 
the Point of the fame Branch, as at D, which iinilhes the 
upper Part. Then bend in both Legs between the Haunches, 
fo that their Points meet under the Scut, and Ikewer them 
fall, with tw^o Skewers, as at O, O. 

''To irufi a Hare Jhort^ Jle the Manner of tn\(jlng a Rabbit 
for bailing. 



R 2 



•hi 



364 The Lad y's Com p a nion. 

The Manner of trujpng a Fowl for Boiling, 




YOU mufl, when it is drav/n, tvvift the "Wings till you 
bring the Pinion under the Back ; and you may, if you 
will, endofe the Liver and Gizzard, one in each Wing, as at 
A, but they are commonly left out. Tlien beat down the 
Breaft-bone, that it does not rife above the flefhy Part ; then 
cut oft the Claws of the Feet, 'and twift the Legs, and bring 
them on the Outfide of the Thigh towards the Wing, as at B, 
and cut an Hole on each Side the Apron, juft above the 
Sidefman, and put the Joints of the Legs into the Body of 
the Fowl, as at C ; So this is trufs'd without a Skewer. 



tb 



The Lady's Companis^n. 3% 



The Manner of trujjlng an Eailerling. 




^^ 



A Duck, an Eailerling, a Teal, and a Widgeon, are all 
trufs'd in the fame Manner. Draw it, and ]ay afide 
the Liver and Gizzard, and take out the Neck, leaving the 
Skin of the Neck full enough to fpread over the Place wher^ 
the Neck was cut off. Then cue off the Pinions at A, anA 
raife up the whole Legs, till they are upright in the Middle; 
of the Fowl B, and prefs them between the Stump of the 
Wings and the Body of the Fowl ; twift the Feet towards 
the Body, and bring them forwards, with the Bottom of th^ 
Feet towards the Body of tl.^ Fowl, as at C : Then take a 
Skewer, and pafs it through ihe Fowl, between the lower 
Joint, next the Foot and the Thigh, takincr hold, at the fame 
Time, of the Ends of the Stumps of the Wings A : Thv^a 
will the Legs, as we have placed them, ftand upright. D is 
the Point of the Skewer. 



R3 



We 



^66 fhe Lady's Companion. 

l^he Manmr of trujing a Rabbit for hoiUng, 




CUT the two Haunches of the Rabbit clofe to the Back- 
bone, two Inches, and turn up the Haunches, by the 
Side of the Rabbit, feewer the Haunchts through the Middle 
Part of the Back, as at A ; then put a Skewer through the 
utmoft Joints of the Legs, the Shoulder-blades and Neck, as 
at B, truffing the Shoulders high, and bending the Neck 
backwards that the Skewer may pafs through the Whole. 

Vh Manner of trujjing a Rabbit for roafing. 




CASE all the Rabbit, excepting the lower Joints of the 
fore-legs, and thofe you chop off; then pafs a Skewer 
through the Middle of the Haunches after you have laid them 
i^at, as at A, and the Fore-legs, which are calTd the Wings 
muil be turn'd as at B, fo that the fmaller Joints may' 
be pulVd into the Body, through the Ribs. . This, as a 
finglc Rabbit, has the Spit pafs'd through the Body and 
Head, but the Skewer takes hold of the J-V > 
Haunches. But to trufs a Couple of Rabbit) 
Skewers, and then the Spit pafles only bet^^ 
without touching the Rabbits. 

You may trufs it fhort as for boiling, and roaii it. 



to prefer ve the 

''^' re fevea 

j'.^ewers, 



fhe Lady's Companion. o^^y 



The Manner of trujjtng a Pigeon. 




DR A W it, but leave in the Liver, for that has no Gall; 
then pufh up the Breaft from the Vent, and holding up 
the Legs, pat a Skewer juft between the Bent of the Thigh 
and the Brown of the Leg, firfl having turned the Pinions 
under the Back; and fee the lower Joint of the biggefl: Pinions 
are fo pafs'd with the Skewer, that the Legs are between thera 
and the Body, as at A. . 



<T,; 



1 



■o 



6S ^he L A D Y*s Companion, 



^he Manner cftrujjlng a Pheafant or Partridgie. 




BOTH the Pheafant and the Partridge are trufs'd the^ 
fame Way, only the Neck of the Partridge is cut off, 
and the Head of the Pheafant is left on : The Cut above 
iliews the Pheafant trufs'd. When it is drawn, cut off the 
pinions, leaving only the Stump -bone next the Breaft, and 
pafs a Skewer through its Point, and through the Body near 
the Back ; and then give the Neck a Turn ; and paffing it by 
the Back, bring tiie Head on the Outfide of the other Wing- 
bone, as at A, and run the Skewer through both, with the 
Head Handing towards the Neck, or the Rump, which you 
pleafe : B is where the Neck runs. Then take the Legs, 
with their Claws on, and prefs them by the Joints together, 
fo as to prefs the lower Part of the Breaft ; then prefs them 
down between the Sidefman, and pafs a Skewer through all, 
as at C. Remember a Partridge muft have its Neck cut 
off, or elfe in ^y^x^ Thing is truffed like a Pheafant. 



CHAP. 



7he Lady's Companion. 369 

CHAP. V. 

Of Br effing of E G G S. 

To male Eggs eat like Mufhrooms. 

GET fix Eggs, and boil them hard, peel them, and cut 
them in thin Slices, put a Quarter of a Pound of But- 
ter into the Frying-pan, and make it hot ; then put in your 
Eggs, and fry them quick Half 4 Quarter of an Hour ; throw 
over them a little Salt, Pepper, and Nutmeg, For Sauce, 
take Half a Pint of White Wine, the Juice of a Lemon, a 
Shalot fnred fmall, a Quarter of a Pound of Butter, and ftir 
it all together, and lay it on Sippets, and ferve it. 

Eggs 'Uiith Endi've, 

BLANCH fome Endive, prefs it well, give it two or 
three Cuts with a Knife, and put it in a Stew-pan; wet 
it with a little Fifh-Broth, and feafon it with Pepper, Salt, 
and a Bunch of fweet Herbs ; let it ftevv for about Half an 
Hoyr, and bind it with a CuUis of Fifh ; let your Egg^ h^ 
poaclied in Butter, aiid trimmed all round, miud that the Ra- 
goo of Endive tartes well, drefs it in aDifh, lay your poach'd 
Eggs, well coloured, in Order; upon it, and ferve it hot. 

Stuffed Eggs. 
^|"^AKE a Dozen Eggs, boil them hard, peel them, fpli^^ 
X thern in two, and take the Yolks out of theiii, put them 
in a Mortar with a Bit of Butter, young Onions, fhredParf- 
ley, Mufhrooms, and a Piece of Crumb of Bread boiled in 
Milk ; if you have any Flelh oi Fifh put fome in it, and fea- 
fon it with Salt, Pepper, fweet Herb?, and fine Spices. Pound 
them all v/ell together, and fill the Whites of your Eggs with 
it, and fmooth them by dipping your Knife in Egg. Then 
take the Difh you defign to ferve them in, put fome Farce at the 
Bottom of it, then put your ilufred Whites of Eggs in Order 
upon ic ; then bread them, and bake them in an Oven, to 
give them a Colour. When they are done, put a h de Sauce 
of any thing you think proper, v^ithout covering them ; and 
ferve them hot for a fccond Courfe. 



R 



370 ne Lady's Companion. 

Anothsr Wa-^ to ^/rf/} Eggs. 
OIL fix Eggs hard, peel them, and cut them in thin 
Slices, put a Quarter of a Pound of Butter into the 
Stew-pan, then put in your Eggs, and ixy them quick ; Half 
a Quarter of an Hour will do them. You mull be very care- 
ful not to break ihem ; throw over them Pepper, Salt, and 
JVutmeg; lay them in your Diih before the Fire, pour out all 
the Fat, ihake in a little Flour, and have ready two Shalots 
cut fmall ; throw them into the Pan, pour In a Quarter of a 
T"'it of White Wine, a little Juice of Lemon, and a litde Fiece 
3utter rolled in Flour. Stir all together till it is thick ; if 
you have not Sauce enough, put in a little more Wine, toaft 
fome thin Slices of Bread cut thus A, and lay round your 
Dilli, pour the Sauce all over, and fend it to Table hot. You 
may put Sweet-Oil on the Toail:, if it be agreeable. 

A pretiy DiJIj (/ Whites of Eggs. 

TAKE the Whites of twelve Eggs, beat them up with 
four Spoonfuls of Ps-ofe-water, a iitde grated Lemon- 
peel, a little Nutmeg, fwe ten with Sugar, mix them v^ell, 
boil them in four Bladders, tie them in the Shape of an Egg, 
and boil them hard ; they will take Half an Hour. Lay 
them in your Difti when cold ; mix Half a Pint of thick 
Cream, a Gill of Sack, and Half the Juice of2iS£nji//e Orange. 
Mix all togetlier, and fweeten with f re Sugar, and pour over 
the Eggs. Serve it up for a Side-diih at Supper, or v/hen you 
pieafe. *• 

Jncther Way to drefs EggS; 

PU T fome Butter, or Hogs Lard, in a Stew-pan, and 
when it is very hot, break an Egg in it, and let it colour ; 
poach as many as you v ill ferve in your Difli, the fame Way ; 
'your Eggs being poach'd, knead a little Piece of Butter in 
Flour, and put in a Stew-pan, with a little Gravy, or Water, 
Salt, Pepper, and a little Dalh of Vinegar ; bind it, and then 
pat it ill the Dilh you are to ferve in, put your Eggs upon if, 
and ferve it hot. 

Eggs the Piedmont Way. 
I L L a Di'h almoil: full of Cream, put it on the Fire, 

raid when the Cream boils, break as many Eggs in it as " 

your Difh will hold j ieafon it with Salt, Pepper, and Nut- 
meg, cover them with another Difh, take care they be no 
hard ; and when enough; fi^rve them hot. 

Eggs 



The Lady'sCompanioi^ 371 

Eggs e?i Crepi)2e, 

HAVING fome raw Ham, Veal Sweetbreads, fat Li- 
vers, Truffles, and Mufhrooms, cut all into Dice, tofs 
them up in melted Bacon, moiften the Whole with Gra^y, {tt 
it iimmering for Half an Hour, then bind it with a Cu.His of 
Veal and Ham. See that vourRagoo be well relifhed, and 
fet a cooling. Take ten new laid Eggs, and divide the Whites 
from the Yolks, whip up the Whites to a Froth, and beat up 
the Yolks, either in a little Culiis or Cream ; firain them thro* 
a Sieve, and pour them into your Ragoo, together with the 
Whites, and mix the Whole well together. Then take a 
fiat-bottom'd Sauce-pan, lay a Veal Caul in the Bottom of it, 
pour in your Ragoo, fold the Caul down upon it, ^nd bake ir 
in an Oven. When it is enough, turn it upfide down into a 
Dilh, and (qtvq it hot. 

Another Time, inllcad of ferving it dry, you nir.y throw on 
it a Culiis of Veal and Ham, or a Ragoo of Muil?.rooms. 

Eggs a la Tripe. 
OIL them hard, takeoif the Shells, and cut them \\\ 
Slices long-ways ; take a Bit of frelh But:er, put it in .: 
Stew-pan, let it melt over a Stove, put in your Eggs, and to:s 
th^-m up with Ihred Parflcy, feafon'd witli Salt and Pepper. 
When they arc enough, pour in a little Cream, and ici v.; 
them wfirm in Plates or little Difiies. 

If you would not ferve them with Crearu, you may, while 
you are toiTing them up \t9 the Stew-pan, add a little fhrei 
Onion, and inilead of the Cream, beat up two Yolks of Egg> 
in a little Verjuice or Vinegar, and Watev, thicken your Egg.. 
with it, and ferve them as you do the others with Cream. 

Eggs ^ivith Anchovies. 
REP AP. E Eggs, and break Hi?lf of them into a Butter^ 
difii, fet them over the Fire, didblve three Anchovies in 
three Spoonfuls of White Wine, and pour into the Eggs ; beat 
a Handful of Piftachoes in a Mortar ; put Half a Quarter of ?. 
Pint of Mutton-gravy, and your beaten Piilachoes, into the 
Eggs, don't let the Eggs be too fliifj cut large Sippets, toad- 
them, lay them in the Difh, and the Eg-vs upon them by 
Spoonfuls, or you may difh them with the Toalfs about them 
on the Brims of che Diih. 



Eggs 



S?2 The Lady's Companion. 



p 



Fggs poach'd ijuitb Anchovies. 
O A CH your Eggs, lay them in aDilh,trim them round 
v^'th a Knife ; melt fome Butter with Anchovies, fry'd 

Flour, Salt, and Juice of Lemon i pour th-s upon them, and 

ferve rhem. 

To dref Eggs ixith Bresd. 

TAK E a Penny loaf, foak it in a Quart of hot Milk for 
two Hours, or till the Bread is foft j then ftrain it 
through a coarfe Sieve, put to it two Spoonfuls of Orange- 
flow erAVuter, or Rofe Water, fweeten it, grate in a little 
oSutmeg, take a little Difh, butter the Bottom of it, b:eak in 
as nxany Egg as will cover the Bottom of the Diih, pour in 
the Bread tnd Milk, fet it in a Tin Oven before the Fire, ar;d 
Half an Hour will bake it ; or it will do on a Chafing-difli of 
Coals. Cover it clofe before the Fire, or bake it in a flow 
Oven. 

To broil Eggs. 

CUT aToall round a Quartern -loaf, toaft it brown, lay 
it on your Difh, butter it, and vtry carefully break fix 
or eight Eggs on the Toaft, and taks a red-hot Shovel and 
hold over theix. When they are dcr.e, fqueeze a Senjille 
Orange over them, grate a little Nutmeg over it, and ferve it 
up for a Side-plate. Or you may poach your Eggs, and lay 
them on the Toaft ; or toafl your Toaft criip, and pour a little 
boiling Water over it ; feafon it'^Vith a little Salt, and then 
lay your poach'd Eggs on it. 

To drejs Eggs and Crawfifii. 

FIRST make a kagoo of Crawiifli-Tails, Artichoke- 
Bottom.s, TrufRes, and Mufhrooms, cut into Pieces, and 
tofs'd up in a Stev/-pan with a little Butter, and moiftened 
with a little Fifh-Broth ; the Whole being feafon'd with Salt, 
Pepper, and a Faggot of fweet Herbs, let it ftand fimmering 
for a Quarter of an Hour j then take oiF the Fat ; put to it a 
Cullis of C- avvfifh ; then take Half a Score new-laid Eggs, 
poach tiiem in boiling Water, lay them in a Difh, pour tlie 
Kagoo upon them, and ferve them in little Dilhes. 



'^^l\ 



' ^he Lady's Companion. 373 

Eggs poached ^vith Cream. 

POACH your Eggs with Butter in a Stew-pan -, then take 
them out upon a Plate, and trim the Whites ; then put 
to them fome Cream with Sugar, and a little Salt ; garnilh 
them as you pleaie, and ferve them up hot. 

Or thus. 

SW E E T E N a Quart of Cream with Sugar, put In three 
or four Zells of Lemon, and a Stick of Cinnamon ; take 
Half a Pound of fweet Almonds, and twerty bitter ones, 
pounded in a Mortar, iprinkled row and then with Milk, till 
they become a Fafte ; then put them into the Cream, with the 
Yolks of fifteen Eggs ; mix all thefe together, and flrain it 
two or three Times through a Sieve ; put it into a Difh, fet 
it over the Fire, cover it, and put Fire over it; when they arg 
enough, fet them by to cool, and ferve them cold in Plaies. 

Amthir Way to drefs Eggs. 

TAKE four or five Eggs, and break them into a Difh, 
put a Piece of Butter under and over them, and feafon 
them with Pepper and Salt, and cover them with another 
Difh ; then put them over a Stove, or Chafing-difli of Char- 
coal, and let them do hard cr foft, according as you like. 

Poach'^d Eggs and Cucumbers. 
HEN you have got fome Cucumbers, make a Ragco 
of them thus : Pare the Cucumbers, cut them in 
Halves, take out the Seeds, flice them, and marinate them in 
Vinegar, Salt, Pepper, and an Onion or tv/o fiiced ; then ftev/ 
them in a Pan with frefh Butter, till they are brown ; then put 
to them a little F ih-Broth, and let them fimmer for Half ar 
Hour ; then f- im off all the Fat, and add to them a Culli:. 
of Cravvfifh, or other Fifli. When you have this ready, poach >j 
your Eggs, one by one, in Butter, lay them in the Dilh ; J 
trim the Whites round with a Knife ; pour your P.agoo upon 
them, and ferve them up. 

I'd farce Eggs. 

GE T a Couple of Cabbage-Lettuces, fcald them v/lth . 
few Muih.(.cms, Pavfley, Sorrel, and Chervil^ thenchopj 
them all very fmaii with the Yolks of hard Eggs, feafon'd v/ithi 
§alt and Nutmeg ; then itew them in Butter, and when they] 

an I 
/ r 



374 The Iuady's Companion. 

are enough, put in a litcle Cream, then pour them into the 
Bottom of a Difh. Make another Farce with the Whites of 
your Eggs, fweet Herbs, iffc. giving them a Colour with a 
red-hot Fiie-a.ovel, and garniih the Brim of your Difii with 
them. 

To dre/s Eggs ths Burgundian Way. 

POUN D a Piece of lean ^&^f with fome beaten Cin- 
namon, Sugar, Maccaroons, and a Slice of Lemon ; then 
take Half a Dozen Eggs, without the Tread, a little Salt and 
Milk ; mix all well together, and flrain them through a Sieve; 
put it into a Dilh, fet it over a Fire, and brown it with a red- 
hot Fire-iliovel. 

To dre/s Eggs after the German JVay. 

AFTER you have broke your Eggs into a Difn, put to 
them fome Peafe-foop, and fet them over a Stove; mix 
the Yolks of two or three Eggs with a little Milk, and ftrain 
them through a Sieve ; then take away the Broth Jn which 
the Eggs were drefs'd, and put the Yolks upon them, fcrape 
fome Cheefe on them, and colour them with a red-hot Shovel. 

To drefs Eggs a la Huguenotte, or the Proteilant Way, 

HAYING broke a Dozen of Eggs, or more, as you 
pleale, beat them together, and put to them the Gravy 
of a Leg of Mutton, or road Beef, llir and beat them well 
together over a Chafing-diih of Coals, with a [little Salt, 
fqueeze in the Juice of Oranges or Lemons ; then put in fome 
Mufhrooms, well boiPd and feafon'd ; when your Eggs are 
well mixed with the Gravy, ^V. take them off the Fire, keep 
them cover'd for fome Time; then grate fome Nutmeg over 
them, and ferve them up. 

To dre/s Eggs the Italian PVay. 

MA K E a Syrup with Sugar and a little Water, and 
when it is fomething better than half made, put the 
Yolks of Eggs in a Silver Spoon, one by one, and hold them 
in the Syrup co poach. Serve them up to the Table, cover'd 
and garnifh'd with Piilachoes, Orange-flowers, and Slices of 
Lemon-peel, boiPd in the fame Syrup, and fprinkle a little 
Lemon-juice upon them. . 



V/1 



The L A D y's C M p A N I N . 375; 

To drefs Eggs n,'oith Lettuce. 

SCALD foine Cabbage-Lettuce in Water, fqueeze them 
we'll ; then fiice them, and tofs them up with Butter, fea- 
iba them with Salt, Pepper, and a Bunch of fweet Herbs ; 
then fet theni over a gentle Fire in a Stew-pan with Butter, 
and let them ftew for Half an Hour; then fldm off the Fat, 
and add to them a Fi(h Callis ; then lay them in Difhes. 
Poach fome Eggs in Butter, lay the Eggs upon the Lettuce, 
and ferve them upon Plates. 

To butter Eggs the Polonian Fa/hion. 

F T E R you have got Half a Score Eggs, beat them, 
and having ready ibme Bread foak'd in Gravy, beat 
them together in a ?v'Iortar, with fome Salt ; put this to your 
Eggs, and then add a little preferv'd Lemon-peel, either cut 
into fmall Slices or Ihred fmall, butter thern, let them over a 
Chafing-difli of Coals, and ferve them on Sippets. 

10 drefs Eggs after the Portugueze Way, 

SOME Sugar being diiTolved in Orange-flovver-water, 
the Juice of two Lemons, and a little Salt, put into it the 
Yolks of Eggs, fet it on the Fire, and iiir it well with a Spoon. 
Let them boil till the Eggs flip from the Side of the Diih ; 
then fet them qw to cool ; then drefs them in the Form of a 
Pyramid, and garniih with March -pane and Lemon-peel. 

Another Way. 

A K E fome Pariley, Leeks, and Onions, cut them 
fmall, fry them in frefh Butter ; when they are about 
half fry'd, put to them hard Eggs cut into Rounds, a Hand- 
bl of Mufiirooms, well pick'd, wafh'd, and llicM, and fome 
Salt ; fry all together, and when they are almoll done, put 
in a liitle Vinegar ; lay Sippets in the Difh, and Slices of Le- 
mon upon them ; then pour in your Eggs, {3"V. and grate 
Nutmeg over them. 



^m 



■ To drefs Eggs the Spanilli Way. 

BR E A K a Dozen and Half of new-laid Eggs, mix them 
v/ith a Quarter of a Pound of Sugar, a Quarter of a Pint 
of Sack, a 'ittle Salt, and grated Nutmeg, and the Juice of an 
Orange ; beat them all together very well ; then let them over 
agentkf ire, vindkeep thvm continually ilirring till they begin 

to 



370 ^he Lady's Companion. 

to thicken : Then ferve them up to Table in a Difh, with 
toalled Manchets dipp'd in the Juice of Oranges, White 
Wine, or Claret, and Icraped Sugar ; Then fprinkle over them 
fome Juice of Orange. 

To poach Eggs. 

BOIL Water and Vinegar mix'd together, with fome 
Cloves and Mace ; when it is boiling break in yourEggs, 
and Itir them about gently with a Slice, till the Whites be 
hardened. ; then take them up, and pare off what is not hand- 
fome j lay Sippets in a Difii, foaked in the Liquor the Eggs 
were poach'd in, melt fome Butter with a little Vinegar, and 
pour over them, and ferve them hot. 

Another Way. 

GET Half a Dozen Eggs, and the Flefh of a Couple of 
Par ridges, or other Fowl; mince the Flelh as fmail 
as you can, put it into a Difh with a Ladieful of Mutton- 
Gravy, in which you have dilTolved a Couple of Anchovies ; 
feafon it with beaten Cloves, Nutmeg, and Mace : Then fet 
it a flewing over a Stove, or Chafing-dilh j v/hen it is half 
done, break in your Eggs one by one, flipping away the moil: 
Part of the Whites, and with the End of an Egg-fhell, make 
a Place in your Meat, in which put your Eggs, which do 
round in Order ; let them Itew while the Eggs are enough, 
grate in Nutmeg, fqueese in the Juice of an Orange, garnifh 
with whole Onions, and ferve it up hot. 

To focu Eggs ^jjith Gravy. 

\^ T 7 H E N you have poach'd Eggs, as before, haying in 

Y V readinefs fome good Gravy, heat it over the Fire, fea- 

j fon'd with Salt, I cpper, and a whole Leek, lay your Eggs 

\ in a Difh, ftrain youi Gravy upon them through a Sieve, and 

ferve them hot in little Diilies or Plates. 

To'drefs Eggs fvcith Oravge juice. 
EAT your Eggs v/ell, fqueezing in fome Orange as you 
beat them \ feafon then; with a little Salr ; put feme 
^-ravy and Butter into a Stew-pan, a^d yourEggs alfo, fet 
-em over a gentle l^jre, and keep thcrn corcinually {lining, 
il they fho.iid ilick to the Pan; When they are done, ferve 
■lem up hot in a Difh. 

To 



^'he L A D y's C o m p a \' I o !^.^ 377 

T^o drefi Eggs in Verjuice. 

LE T your Eggs be beat well with a little Verjuice, then 
put to them's alt and Nutmeg ; put them over the Fire 
with a little Butter ;♦ and when they are about as thick as 
Cream, ferve them up. 

^0 fry Eggs as round as Balls. 

JJ[AVING a deep Frying-pan, and throe Pint? of clari- 
7i fied Butter, heat it as hot as for Fritters, L.^d ftir it 
with a Stick till it runs round like a Whirl-pool; ther. ^^eak 
an Egg into the Middle, and turn it round with yoi-r Stick 
till it be as hard as a foft-poach'd Egg, the Whirling round 
of the Butter will make it as round as a Ball ; then take it 
up with a Slice, put it into a warm Difii, fet it leaning be- 
fore the Fire to keep hot; they will keep Half an Hour, 
and yet be foft, fo you may do as many as you pleafc ; you 
may ferve them with fry'd or roalled Collops, or ilew'd Spi- 
nach. Garnifh with Orange. 

To Tnake artificial Eggs. 

BO I L a Gallon of Milk in an earthen Pan till it comes 
to a Quart, keeping it continually flirring with a wooden 
Ladle ; then put one third Part of it into a Diih, and fet it on 
the Fire again with fome Rice, Cream, and a little Saffron, 
till it grows thick and pretty firm ; then make it up into the 
Form of Yolks of Eggs, keeping them lukewarm ; then take 
the Milk you fet by, and with that fill up fome Egg-lhells 
that you have opened, wafh'd, and topp'd, and put your arti- 
ficial Yolks into the Shells, and a little Almond Cream and 
Orange flower-water on the Top : Thefe are ufually ferved 
up on a ruffled Napkin, and are eaten in the Time of Lent, 

7o make an Egg as big as T'wenty, 

PA R T the Yolks from theV/hites of twenty Eggs, flrain 
the Yolks by themfelves, and the Whites by themfelves, 
boil the Yolks in a Bladder, in the Form either of an Egg or 
Ball ; when they are boiled hard, put the Ball of Yolks into 
another Bladder, and the Whites round about it, and bind it 
up oval or round, and boil it. Thefe Eggs are ufed in grand 
Sallads. 

If you pleafe you may add to the Yolks of the Eggs Am- 
bergreefe, Mu&, grated Bifcuits, candy'd Piilachoes and Su- 
gar ; and to the Whites, Muik, Almond -palle, beaten Ginger, 

and 



578 ^he Lady's Companion.' 

and the Juice of Oranges, and ferve them up with Butter? 
Almond-milk, Sugar, and Juice of Orange. 

Eggs ^ith Rofe-water. 

LET your Eggs be tempered with Rofe-water, Salt, 
beaten Cinnamon, Maccaroon, and Lemon-peel, boil 
them with clarify 'd Butter in a Pan over a gentle Fire ; when 
they are enough, ice them over with Sugar and Orange- 
ilovver, or Rofe-water ; and, when you ferve them up, put 
feme Lemon-juice and the Kernels of Pomegranates to 
them. 

To drefs Eggs hard, 

SOME Butter being put into a Diih with Vinegar and 
Salt, fet it over a Chaiing-difh ; when the Butter is melt- 
ed, put in two or three Yolks of hard Eggs, diiTolve them in 
the Butter and Vinegar for the Sauce ; then having other 
hard Eggs ready, cut them in Halves or Quarters, lay them 
in the Sauce, and grate over them fom»e Nutmeg and Cruii 
of Bread. 

Artificial Eggs au Miroir, 

FILL the Bottom of a Plate with Cream, and let it boil 
with Butter, covered with a Lid, having Fire upon it; 
when it grows firm take it oiF the Fire, make hollow Places 
with a Spoon, and fill them with artificial Yolks, (for which 
fee the PN.eceipt to make artificial Eggs ;) make a Sauce with 
Butter, Salt, Pepper, Nutmeg, a little Vinegar, and fome 
fweet Herbs, chopped very fmall, and pour it in hot upon the 

Eggs. 

Eggs in Moonfol-ns . 

HAVING broke your Eggs into a DIfh upon fome 
Butter and Oil, either melted or cold, llrevv (ome Salt 
on them, and fet them over aChafing diih of Coals, but make 
not the Yolks too hard ; and, while they are doing, cover 
them, and make a Sauce of an Onion cut into round Slices, 
and fiy'd in good Oil or Butter ; then put a little Verjuice, 
Salt, and grated Nutmeg to them, and ferve them up^ ^ 

To butter Eggs upon foafis. 

HA LF a Score Eggs being beat in a Difh with fome 
Salt, put Butter to them, tlien cut fome Slices of Bread, 
and toaft them ; v/hen the Toafts are butter'd lay them in a 
Difh, lay the Eggs on the Toafts, and garniih the Diih with 
pepper and Salt. 

Eggs 



The L A D y's Companion. 379 

Eggs after the Swifs Way. 

WHEN your Eggs are drefs'd, as it were au Miriort 
bread them with Crumbs ; then let them be covered 
with a Pike Hafli, and fome fcraped Cheefe, and brought to 
a fine Colour. 

Amulet of Eggs. 

GET what Quantity of Eggs you want, beat them^ well, 
and feafon them with Salt, and whole Pepper, if you 
like it ; then have your Frying pan ready, with a good deal 
of frefh Batter, let it be thoroughly hot, then put in your 
Eggs, with four Spoonfuls of ftrong Gravy ; then have ready 
cut Parfley and Gives, and throw over them ; and when it is 
enough, turn it on the other Side, and fqueeze the juice of 
a Lemon or an Orange over it. Serve it for a Side-difh. 

Eggs IV //^ the Juice of Sorrel. 

POACH your Eggs in boiling Water ; and having 
pounded fome Sorrel, put the Juice of it in a Difh, with 
fome Butter, two or three raw Eggs, Salt, and Nutmeg ; make 
all this into a Sauce, and pour it on your poach'd Eggs j fo 
ferve them. 

Eggs n,vith Succory. 

BLANCH fome Succory, fqueeze it well, give it threC 
or four Cuts with a Knife, put it into a Stevv-pan» 
moiften it with a little Fifh-Broth, feafon it with Pepper, 
Salt, and a Bunch of favoury Herbs, let it fmiiner Half an 
Hour, and then thicken it with a Fiili Cullis, lay it hand- 
foniely in the DilTi, and having poach'd your Eggs in Butter, 
and cut them round, as in the foregoing Receipt, lay therr. 
upon the Succory, and ferve them in Plates or little Difhes. 
or for Hors d'Oeuvres. U 

Eggs aftd Sellery. 

TAKE four or five Roots of Sellery, half boil it in 
white Water, that is to fay, in Water, Butter, Flour, 
and Salt ; then take them up, drain them, cut them in 
Pieces, and put them into a Stew-pan, with a little Filli 
Cullis, fet them a fimmering Half an Hour, thicken them 
with a Crawfilh Cullis, and as big as a Walnut of Butter, u] 
keeping them always moving over the Fire. See that your I 
Ragoo be well reliih'd, put in a little Vinegar, lay it in a ^ 

Dilb, ■ 



gSo The Lady's Companion. 

Dilh, and your poach 'd Eggs upon it. Serve it as your Eggs 
with Succor;/. 

Inftead of poached Eggs, you may make ufe of hard Eggs 
cut in Halves, laying them upon the Sellery round your 
Dilh, and fcive them as above. 

Eggs anti Cravviifli to be fer^ved in Utile Dijhes on Facing 
Days. 

TA KE a little Ladleful of Fifh-Broth, a fmaJi Crufl 
of Bread, a Mulhroom, a little Parfley, a v/hole Leek, 
and make it fimmer all together : Take it cfF the Fire, and 
put to it more cr lefs Cuflis of Crav;fiih, according x^ the 
Size of the Dilh you intend to make : Set a Dilh on the 
Table, and a Sieve in it, into which break fix new-laid Eggs, 
and ilrain your CuUis and them through the Sieve three or 
four Times. Set a^ilver Dilh on hot Embers, pour in your 
Eggs, cover it with a Tart-pan Cover, and put Fire upon it. 
Lift it up from Time to Time to fee when the Eggs aie 
enough, and when you find them to be fo, ferye them warm. 

Fcr Flefh Days. 

TAKE Veal-gravy and Cullis of Veal and Ham, of 
each an equal Quantity \ when you have mix'd them 
together, take one Half of it, and feafon it with Salt, Pep- 
per, and a litde Nutmeg ; put the other Half among fome 
Crawiilh Cullis, in which beat up eight new-laid Eggs, and 
ftrain the Whole through a Sieve : Set a Difh upon live 
Embers, pour your Eggs into the Difh, and cover it with a 
Tart-pan Cover, lay Fire upon it ; look on them from Time 
to Time, and when you fee that they begin to thicken, ferve 
them hot in Plates or little Diihes. 



CHAP. 



fhe Lady's Co MP A Ni ON. 381 

CHAP. VL 

Of RAGOOS. 

A Ragoo of Sturgeon. 

YOUR Sturgeon being cut into Pieces^ and thofe 
Pieces larded, flour them a little in order to fry them 
brown with Lard : As foon as they are coir.e to a Colour, 
ilip them into a Stew-pan with good Gravy, fweet Herbs^ 
fome Slices of Lemon, Truffles, Mufhrooms, Veal Sweet- 
breads, and a good CuUis : Afterwards, the whole Mefs be- 
ing well cleared from the Fat, put in a Drop of Verjuice, 
and ferve it hot. 

To drefs Frefli Cod in Ragoo. 

SCALE your Fifh, and boil it, in Water, with Vinegar, 
Pepper, Salt, a Bay-leaf, and Lemon ; make for it ? 
Sauce of burnt Butter, fry'd Flour, Capers, and Oyflers ; let 
it be white when you ferve it up, 

To ragoo Salt Cod after the Italian Way, 

LET it be well fcaled, and foak'd for eight or ten Hours, 
then boil it in a good Quantity of Water, two or three 
Boils will be enough. Take a Stew-pan, and put in it a 
large Piece of Butter, fome green Onions cut fmall, Parfley, 
a Clove of Garlick, or a Shalot or tv/o, and Aveet Herbs, 
then your Cod, put in alfo a Glafs of Oil, a little beaten 
Pepper, fome Orange-juice; keep it ftirring that it may grov/ 
thick ; when done enough, difh it up hot, and take care it 
be well tailed. 

To ragoo Salt Cod an t her Way, 

CU T your Cod in Pieces, and let it foak from Night till 
Morning, and boil it with a quick Fire. Take a Stew- 
pan, put in it a large Piece of Butter, fome green Onions, 
Parfley cut fmall. Pepper, then your Cod, let all flew fome 
Time, ftirring it often till it become: thick ; you may put 
fome Filh-Broth, if you like it ^ let all be relifhing, and 
ferve it up hot, garnifhing vqui Difh with fry'd Parfley and 
Slices of Lemon and Orange. 

Aiother 



382 The Lady's Companion. 

Another Way. 

BOIL your Cod as in the above Receipt j put in a Stew- 
pan a Giafs of Oil, fome Parfley and Onions cut Imall 
Half a Glafs of White Wine, two Cloves of Garlick, the 
Juice of a Couple of Lemons, and a few Crumbs of Bread, 
then put in your Pieces of Cod, let all ilew fome Time, then 
difh it up, garnilhing your Difh with Slices of Orange and 
Lemon. 

7o ?nake a Ragoo of Eel-Powts. 

CLEANSE them well from their Slime with hot Wa- 
ter, then four and fry them i then put them into a Diih 
with burnt Euutcr, Flour, and difiblv'd Anchovies ; feafo» 
them with Salt, Gives, Nutmeg, and Verjuice; and Ilew them 
well. Garnifh with fry'd Pariley, and ferve them. 

A Ragoo of Milts of Fifh en gras. 

HAVING blanch'd the Milts of your Fifh in boiling 
Water, take them out, and throw them into cold : 
Tofs up in a Sauce-pan, nvith a little melted Bacon, fome 
fmall Muflirooms, fome Truffles cut in Slices, and a Bunch 
of Herbs; feafon the Whole with Pepper and Salt, moiilen 
it with Veal-gravy, and fet it to fimmer as ufual. When 
they are done enough, take the Fat clean off, bind your 
Ragoo with a Cullis of Veal and Ham ; then put in your 
Milts, and make them fimmer over a gentle Fire. See that 
it be well tailed, and ferve it in Plates or little Diihes. 

A Ragoo of Milts and Filh en Maigre. 

FIRST blanch them, and throw them into cold Water, 
as in the Receipt nbove, put fome Butter into a Stew- 
pan, with a very little Flour, and brown it; put into your 
Brown fome fmall MuOuooms, anti flic'd Truffles, and tofs 
theni up over a Sto\£ , then moiilen trem with good Filh- 
Broth, feafo'i'd with Pepper, Salt, and a Faggot of Herbs ; 
let them fimmer over a gentle Fire. This done, take off 
the Fat, and put in the Milts to fimmer as above; when they 
are enough, bind your Ragoo with a Crawfiih, or other 
maigre Cullis, and fmall Dilhes. 

A Ragoo of Pike Livers. 

HAVING cut off the Galls, blanch the. Livers and 
throw them into cold Water ; then having tofs'd up 
fome Mufhrooms and Truffles, put in your Livers with fome 

good 



"The Lad y's Companion. 383 

good Fifh-Broth, and obferve the fame Direaions as in the 
toregoing Receipt. 

"To make a Collar of Fifh in Ragoo, to looh like a Breaft of 

Veal collar'd. 

•■«■. 

TAKE a large Eel, fkin it, walh it clean, and parboil 
it, pick off the Fiefh, and beat it in a Mortar ; feafon 
it with beaten Mace, Nutmeg, Pfcppei, Gait, a^ few fweet 
Herbs, Parfley, and a little Lemon-peel chonp d fiiiall; beat 
all well together, with sn equal QuantiLV of Crumbs of 
Bread, mixicweli togethci, then t^^ke aTurbut, Soals, Scates, 
orThornback, or any fiat Fift-i, that will roll cleverly 3 lay the 
fiat Fifh on the Drelfer, take away all the Bones and Fins, 
and cover your Fifh with the Farce ; then roll it up as tight 
as you can, and open the Skin of your Eel, and bind the Col- 
lar with it nicely, fo that it may be fiat Top and Bottom, 
to Hand well in the Biili , then butter an earthen Difh, and 
fet it in it upright, flour it all over, and flick a Piece of But- 
ter on the Top, an J round the Edges ; fo that it may run 
down on ihe Filh, and let it be well baked, but take great 
care it ir. s A-t broke ; let there be a Quarter of a Pint of Wa- 
ter in the Diih. 

In the mean Time, take the Water the Eel was boil'd in, 
and all the Bones of the Fifh, fet them on to boil, feafon 
them with Mace, Cloves, black and white Pepper, fweet 
Herbs, an Onion, cover it clofe, and let it boil till there is 
about a Quarter of a Pint ; then flrain it, add to it a few 
TrufTles and Morels, a few Muflirooms, two Spoonfuls of 
Catchup, a Gill of Red Wine, a Piece of Butter as big as a 
largeWalnut, roll'd in Flour. Stir all together, feafon it with 
Salt to your Palate, fave fome of the Farce you make of the 
Eel, and mix with the Yolk of an Egg, and roll them up in 
little Balls with Flour, and fry them of a Light-brown. 
When your Fifn is enough, lay it in your Difh, fkim all the 
Fat off the Pan, and pour the Gravy to your Sauce. Let it 
all boil together till it is thick ; then pour it over the Roll, 
and put in your Balls. Garnifti with Lemon. 

This does beft in a Tin Oven before the Fire, becaufe then 
you can bafte it as you pleafe. 



1q 



384 ^he Lady*s Com pan I ok. • 

Te make a Ragoo ^Perches. 

GUT your Perches, half broil them on a Gridiron, then 
take them up, and take ofF their Skins neatly ; then 
take a Sauce-pan, put into it a little Filh-Broth, Half a Pint 
of White Wine, Salt, and Pepper, an Onion ftuck with 
Cloves, a Bay -leaf, and Parfiey Ihred ; let it boil, then take 
a Stew-pan, put into it as much Butter as the Quantity of 
an Egg, a little Flour, and half brown it, and pour into it 
the Sauce out of the Sauce -pan ; then lay in your Perches, 
and fet them over a gentle Fire to fimmer : When they are 
llev/d enough, dilh tliem, and pour over them any maigre 
Ragoo, and ferve for a firil Courfe. 

To make a Ragoo / Perches cut in Slites. 

CU T your Perches in Slices the whole Length of the 
Body, dividing each Perch into four Pieces ; tofs up 
fome Muihrooms in Butter, and put to them a little Cream 
or Milk ; then put in your SHces of Perch, v;ith the Yolks 
of three Eggs, fome ihred Parfiey and grated Nutmeg : Keep 
ftirring them very gently, for fear of breaking them , When 
they are ready, lay them in a Difh, pour a maigre Ragoo 
upon them, and ferve for a firll: Courfe. 

7o ragoo t e Roes of Carps. 

TAKE fome foft Rocs of Carps, and blanch them in 
warm Water ; put in a Stew-pan fome melted Bacon, 
cr Butter, fome Mufiireoms, TrufRes cut in Slices, and a 
Bunch of fweet Herbs ; fry them a little, and feafon with 
Salt and Pepper ; then moiften it with Gravy, and let it ftew 
gently over a flow Fire ; when iLevv'd, take off the Fat, 
thickening the Sauce with fome CuUis; and then put in 
your Roes ; let your Ragoo be relifhing, and ferve it hot for 
a firfl Courle. 

A Ragoo of Mufcles. 

LET your Mufcles be walh'd, and clean'd ; then put 
into a Sauce -pan a Piece of Butter, Salt, Pepper, Parf- 
iey, Chibboi, Rafpings of Bread, and a Daih of Vinegar, 
to' tofs the Mufcles up in it. When your Mufcles are done 
enough, ferve them up hot. 

A Ragoo 



c 



The Lady's Companiont. 385 

j4 Ragoo ^Mufcles, ^wi^h a 'white Sauce. 

AFTER your Mufcles are out of their Shells, blanch 
them in frelh Batter, with Parfley, and fweet Herbs cut 
fmall ; then leafon them with Salt, Pepper, and Nutmeg ; 
and when their Liquor is boiPd away much, thicken it with 
Yolks of Eggs and Lemon-juice, and ferve up with Scate, or 
by itfelf. 

A Ragoo of Mufcles with a brown Sauce is made after the 
fame Manner, except that we then put in no Eggs, your 
Mufcles being blanched and moiften'd with Gravy. 

Jftoiher Ragoo 0/ Mufcles. 

L E A N S E your Mufcles, and put them in a Stew-pan 
,^_, on a Stove till they are open ; take them out of their 
Shells, and keep their Liquor ; then blanch them in Butter, 
put fome Mufhrooms into a Stew-pan, with a Bunch of fweet 
Herbs, and Pepper, fome Veal-gravy to moiften the Whole ; 
then ftew it on a flow Fire ; your Sauce being done, take off 
the Fat, and thicken it with Cullis of Veal and Ham ; then 
put in your Mufcles, with fome of their Liquor, and let it do 
llowly, taking care it don't boil ; let it be relilhing, and ferve 
it up hot for a dainty Dilh. This Ragoo is ufed with all Sorts 
of Diflies. 

j^nother Ragoo o/* Mufcles, 

YOUR Mufcles being cleanfed, open'd, and taken out 
of their Shells, tofs up fome Mulhrooms in Butter, put 
in your Mufcles, with a Bunch of fweet Herbs, and moiften 
the Whole with Half of their Liquor and as much Fifh- 
Broth; add fome Parfley Ihred fmall, and fome Pepper; when 
ready, thicken with a Fifh Cullis, let it be of a high Relifh, 
and ferve it up hot. This Ragoo may be ufed for Courfes 
with Fifii. 

Cockles may be done the fame Way as Mufcles. 

A Ragoo of Oyfters. 

OPEN your Oyfters, drain them over a Sieve, and put 
a Difli under to receive their Liquor. Melt fome frelh 
Butter in a Stew-pan, put in it a Duft of Flour, keep it flir^ 
ring till it is brown ; moillen it with a little Gravy, and put 
in fome fmall Crulls of Bread of the Bignefs of the Top of 
[your Finger, and next your drained Oyibrs , tofs it up, fea- 
VoL. L S foa 



386 ne Lady's Companion. 

^on it with Pepper, Parfley, Gives, and fome of the Oyfler- 
liquor. Your Ragoo being well relilh'd, lerve it up for a 
dainty Diih. 

This Ragoo muft be quickly done, becaufe the Oyflers 
muft boil. 

Another Way. 

OPEN your Oyfters, put them in a Stew-pan with their 
Liquor, blanch them, then take them out one after 
another, cleanfe them well, and put them in a Diih. Blanch 
fome Mulhrooms and Truffles in Butter, moifien them with 
Gravy, thicken the Sauce with a Cullis of Veal and Ham ; 
then put in your Oyllers, warm them without boiling, and 
fqueeze a little Juice of a Lemon ; let your Ragoo be palat- 
able, and ferve it up hot. 

This Ragoo may be ufed with ail Sorts of Courfes with 
Oy iters. 

Another Way. 

BURN fome Butter, then take fome large Oyfters, well 
wafh'd and dry'd, and throw them into a Stew-pan, 
with a Shalot or two, and a little Salt ; fry them a little ; 
then take them out, and let them drain ; then boil the Oyfter- 
liquor with Spices to your Mind, an Anchovy, a little Gravy, 
and thicken it with Butter roU'd in Flour, and burn it in the 
Pan J then pour this Sauce over the Oyllers ; garnilh with 
fry'd Bread and Lemon llic'd. 

Another Way. 

WHEN your Oyfters are open'd, blanch'd and cleans'd, 
as in the former Receipts, and you have tofs'd up 
Muflirooms and Truffles in frelli Butter, fimmer them in 
Eilh-Broth inflead of Gravy, thick it with a maigre Cullis, 
put in your Oyilers, give them a Heat, and ferve them up in 
little Dilhes. 

A njohite Ragoo of Oyfters. 

TA K E a Stew-pan, and put therein a good Bit of But- 
ter roird in Flour, fhredded Parfley, fome Nutmeg 
grated, pounded Pepper, Half a Lemon cut like Dice, a 
Ihredded Anchovy, and feveral Oyfters, with their Liquor ; 
put the Whole on the Fire ; but take care it does not boil ; 
and when thicken'd ferve it up hoi ; let it be relifhing. You 
may ufe this Ragoo with Fifh, Chickens, or any fuch other 

Fowl you pleafe, for a firft Courfe. 

Another 



The Ladv's Companio!^. 387 

Another Ragoo cf Oyflers. 

OPEN twenty large Oyfters, take them out of their Li- 
quor, fave the Liquor, and dip the Oyfters in a Batter 
made thus : Take two Eggs, beat them well, a little Lemon- 
peel grated, a little Nutmeg grated, a Blade of Mace pounded 
fine, a little Parfley chopped fine ; beat all together with a 
little Flour ; h ve ready lome Butter or Dripping in a Stew- 
pan, when it boils, dip in your Oyfters, one by one, into the 
Batter, and fry them of a fine Brown ; then with an Egg-flice 
take them out, and lay them in a Difh before the Fire. Pour 
the Fat out of the Pan, and fliake a little Flour over the 
Bottom of the Pan ; then rub a little Piece of Butter, as big 
as a fmall Walnut, all over with your Knife, whilft it is over 
the Fire ; then pour in three Spoonfuls of the Oyfter-liquor 
ftrain'd ; one Spoonful of White Wine, and a Quarter of a 
Pint of Gravy; grate a little Nutmeg, ftir all together, throw 
in the Oyfters, give the Pan a Tofs round, and when the 
Sauce is of a good Thicknefs, pour all into the Dilh, and 
garnifn with Rafpings. 



T 



Another Way, 

A K E a Quart of the largeft Oyfters you can get, 
open them, fave the Liquor, and ftrain it through a 
fine Sieve ; wa(h your Oyfters in warm Water, make a Batter 
thus : Take two Yolks of Eggs, beat them well, grate ia 
Haifa Nutmeg, cut a little Lemon-peel fmall, a good deal 
of Parlley, a Spoonful of the Juice of Spinach, two Spoon- 
fuls of Cream or Milk, beat it up with Flour to a thick Bat- 
ter, have ready fome Butter in a Stew-pan, dip your Oyfters 
one by one into the Batter, and have ready Crumbs of Bread, 
then roll them in it, and fry them quick and brown ; fome 
with the Crumbs of Bread, fome without. Take them out 
of the Pan, and fet them before the Fire ; then have ready 
a Quart of Chefnuts Ihell'd and fidnn'd, fry them in the But- 
ter ; when they are enough, take them up, pour the Fat out 
of the Pan, fliake a little Fiour all over the Pan, and rub a 
Piece of Butter as big as a Hen's Egg all over the Pan with 
your Spoon, till it is melted and thick ; then put in the Oy- 
fter-liquor, three or four Blades of Mace, ftir it round, put in 
a few Piftachoe-Nuts Ihell'd, let them boil, then put in the 
Chefnuts, and Half a Pint of White Wine, have ready the 
Yolks of two Eggs, beat up with four Spoonfuls of Cream ; 

S 2 ftir 



388 ^he Lady*s Companion. 

itir all well together, when it is thick and fine, lay the Oyllers 
5n the Difh, and pour the Ragoo over them. Garnifh with 
Chefnuts and Lemon. 

You may ragoo MuTcles or Cockles the fame Way. Yoa 
Tnay leave out the Piftachoe-Nuts if you don't like them ; 
but they give the Sauce a fine Flavour. 

A Ragoo of Crawfilh for Fijh Days. 

YOUR Crawfifh being boiled, pick out the Tails, and 
tofs them up in a Stew-pan, with a little Butter, fome 
fmall Mufhrooms, and Truffles, cut in Slices ; put in Fifli- 
Broth to moillen them, let them fimmer a-while, take ofF the 
Pat, put in fome CuUis of Crawfifh to bind- your Ragoo, and 
ferve it up in Plates or little Difhes. 

J Ragoo of Crawfifh fir Flejh Days. 

PICK feveral Crawfiih, and take their Tails, which put 
on a Plate with fome little Mufhrooms, feveral Slices of 
Truffles, and a Bunch of fweet Herbs ; the Whole being fea- 
fon'd v/ith Salt and Pepper, let it take a Fry with melted 
Bacon, or Butter, in a Stew-pan, on a flow Fire, moiften it 
with fome Gravy ; being done enough, take off the Fat, and 
thicken it with fome Cullis of Crawfifh ; then put it on hot 
Cinders, taking care not to let it boil left it turn; you may put , 
to it feveral Heads of Afparagus and Artichoke-Bottoms, if 
in Seafon. When your Ragoo is done, ferve it hot for a 
iecond Courfe. 

To drefs Smelts in Ragoo. 

PUT them into a Stew-pan with a little White Wine, 
fcraped Nutmeg, flic'd Lemon, and fry'd Flour ; when 
they are almofl enough, add fome minc'd Capers, and ferv^ 
them up. 

A Ragoo nvith Palates of Beef. 

HAVING boiPd your Beef-Palates, take the Skin ofF 
and clean them well ; cut them in fine Slices, and put 
them into a Stew-pan with melted Bacon, a Bunch of fweet 
Herbs, and fome Mufhrooms ; feafon them with Salt and 
Pepper, moiflen them with Gravy, and let them flew over a 
flow File ; being done enough, take off the Fat, and thicken 
with a Cullis of Veal and Ham, or a Cullis of Partridges, 
which fhould be palatable and high relifh'd. 

ji Ragoo 



The Lad y's Companion. 389 

A Ragoo ^>jith Beef-Palates the Italian Way, 

LE T your Palates be order'd and clean'd as before ; then 
cut them in fmall Slices like Dice, and put them in the 
Stew-pan with Half a Glafs of Oil, as much of White Wine, 
a Spoonful of Cullis, and a Bunch of fweet Herbs. Let it 
Hew flovvly, and when ready talle it, let it be reliihing,jake 
oft the Fat, and dilh and ferve up for a fecond Courfe. 

To ragoo a Piece of Beef. 

AFTER larding the hinder Part of the Buttock of Beef 
with thick Lardoons of Bacon, put it into a Stew-pan 
with fome Slices of Bacon at the Bottom ; feafon wi'^h Salt, 
Flipper, Nutmegs, Cloves, and fweet Herbs ; cover it with. 
Bards of Bacon ; put in two Pounds of good Lard ; cover 
your Pan, and ftew it gently between two Fires for twelve 
flours, then put in a little Brandy. Garniih with Pickles, 
and ferve it up. 

Another Way, 

TA K E a large Piece of the Flank which has Fat at th2 
Top cut fquare, or any Piece that is all Meat, and has 
Fat at the Top, but no Bones. The Rump does well. Cat 
all nicely oft" the Bone (which makes fine Soop) then take a 
large Stew-pan, and with a good Piece of Butter, fry it a 
little Brown all over, flouring your Meat well before you puc 
it into the Pan, then pour in as much Gravy as will cover it, 
made thus: Take about a Pound of coarfe Beef, a little Piece 
of Veal cut fmall, a Bundle of fweet Herbs, an Onion, fome 
whole Black Pepper and White Pepper, two or three large 
Blades of Mace, four or five Cloves, a Piece o'i Carrot, a little 
Piece of Bacon fteep'd in Vinegar a little while, a Crull of 
Bread toafted brown ; put to this a Quart of Water, and let 
it boil till Half is wafted. While this is making, pour a 
Quart of boiling Water into the Stew-pan, cover it clofe, and 
let it be ftewing foftly ; when the Gravy is done ftrain it, 
pour it into the Pan where the Beef is, take an Ounce of 
Truffles and Morels cut fmall, fome frelh or dry'd Mufhrooms 
cut fmall, two Spoonfuls of Catchup, and cover it clofe ; let 
all this ftew till the Sauce is rich and thick; then have ready 
fome Artichoke-Bottoms cut into Pieces, and a few pickled 
Muftirooms ; give them a Boil or two, and when your Meat 
is tender, and your Sauce quite rich, lay the Meat into a Dift:, 
and pour the Sauce over it. You may add a Sweetbiead cue 

S3 in 



390 The La D y's CoMP AN ION; 

in Pieces, a Palate ftew'd tender, cut into little Pieces, fomc 
Cocks-combs, and a few Force meat Balls. Thefe are a 
great Addition, but it will be good without. 

'Nf.te, For Variety, when the Beef is ready, and the Gravy 
put to it, add a large Bunch of Sellery cut fmall and walh'd 
clean, two Spoonfuls of Catchup, and a G#ifs of Red Wine. 
Omit all the other Ingredients. When the Meat anu Sellery 
are tender, and the Sauce rich and good, fer\'e it up. It is 
alfo very good this Way : Take fix large Cucumberr, fcoop 
out the Seeds, pare them, cut them into Slices, and do them 
juH as you do the Sellery. 

To rag'jo a Leg of Mutton. ' ^ 

TAKE all the Skin and Fat off, cut it very thin the 
right Way of the Grain, then butter your Stew-pan, 
and (hake fome Flour into it ; flice Half a Lemon, and Half 
an Onion, cut them very fmall, a fmall Bundle of fvveet Herbs, 
and a Blade of Mace ; put all together with your Meat into 
the Pan, flir it a Minute or two, then put in fix Spoonfuls of 
Gravy, and have ready aH Anchovy minc'd fmall, mix it 
with fome Butter and Flour, ftir it altogether for fix Minutes, 
and then diih it up. 

To ragoo Sheeps Tongues. 

BLANCH the Tongues in boiling Water, being well 
walh'd ; then put them into cold Water. Cut Slices of 
a Buttock of Beef, about two Pounds ; lay them over the Bot- 
tom of a Stew-pan with Slices of Bacon, fet the Pan over a 
Fire, cover it, and let them ftew ; when you perceive the 
Meat begins to fiick to the Pan, put in a Handful of Flour, 
itir it altogether for a-while ; then put in Broth and Water, 
in equal Quantities, juft as much as will cover the Tongues ; 
then lav your Tongues in a Stew-pan, pour the Ingredients 
above-mentioned upon them ; feafon with Salt, Pepper, 
Spices, Onions, Cives, Parfley, and favoury Herbs ; add Car- 
rots, Parfnips, and Lemon-peel ; let all thefc ftew together-j. 
then take up the Tongues, peel them, flit them in two, dip 
them in fome of the Fat in which they were rtew'd, drudge 
them with grated Bread, broil them, and ferve them with 
the Effence of Ham in a Dilli, and the broiPd Tongues laid 
round it ; and, at other Times, only with Verjuice, Salt, 
and Pepper. 

Another 



ne Lady's Companion. 391 

Another Way. 

TAKE Veal Sweetbreads, Mulhrooms, Truffles, and a 
Bunch of fweet Herbs, keep thefe ready in a Stew- 
pan, put in a Spoonful of both Gravy and Cullis, and boil 
all together ; then take fome fmall Sheeps Tongues, flit thetn 
in two, and let thern foak foftly with the reft ; add to it fome 
Artichoke-Bottoms cut in Dice, a little Lemon-juice, and 
ferve them up hot ; let the Ragoo be of a good Tafte. 

To drefs Lamb in a Ragoo. 

AFTER having cut a Quarter of Lamb into four Quar- 
ters, lard it with iTiiddle-fiz'd Slips of Bacon, and tofs 
it up a little in a Stew-pan to brown it ; then ftew it with 
Broth, Salt, Pepper, Cloves, a Bunch of fweet Herbs, and 
Mulhrooms. Make a Sauce for it of fry'd Oyfters, with a 
little Flour, and a Couple of Anchovies ; when you are ready 
to ferve up, add fome Lemon-juice, and garnilh with ir{^ 
Muihrooms. 

Another Way', 

TA KE a Quarter of Lamb, roaft It, and when it is near 
enough, drudge it well with grated Bread. Into the 
Difh in which you intend to ferve it in, put a Cullis of Ve:i], 
with Salt, Pepper, an Anchovy, the Juice of a Lemon, and 
a few Cives ; warm it, lay in your Lamb, and ferve it up. 

Another Way. 

HALF road your Lamb, then cut it in four Pieces, and 
tois it up in a Stew-pan to brown it; then Irew it in 
good Broth, with Salt, Pepper, Cloves, a few Mufhrooms, 
and fweet Herbs ; when it is enough put to it a Cullis of 
Veal, and ferve away. 

Another Way. 

TA K E a Fore-quarter of Lamb, cut the Knuckle-bone 
off, lard it with little thin Bits of Bacon, flour it, fry 
it of a fine Brown, and then put it into a Stew-pan ; put to 
it a Qucvrt of Broth, or good Gravy, a Bundle of Herbs, a 
little Mace, two or three Cloves, and a little whole Pepper; 
cover it clofe, and let it ftew pretty fall for Half an Hour, 
pour the Liquor all out, ftrain it, keep the Lamb hot in the 
Pan till the Sauce is ready, take Half a Pint of Oyfters, flour 
them, fry them brown, drain out all the Fat clean that you 

S 4 fry"d 



392 77;?^ Lad y's COM4' A N ION. 

fry'd them in, fkim all the Fat ofF the Gravy, then pour i^ 
into the Oyfters, put in an Anchovy, and two Spoonfuls o* 
either Red or White Wine j boil all together till there is 
juft enough for Sauce; add ibme frefii Mufhrooms (if you 
can get them) and feme pickled ones, with a Spoonful of 
the Pickle, or the Juice of Haifa Lemon ; lay your Lamb 
in the Difh, and pour the Sauce over it. Garnifh with Le- 
mon. 

A Ragoo of Lambs Stones and Sweetbreads. 

W''AS H your Lambs Stones and Sweetbreads well, and 
blanch them in boiling Water ; then put them in 
cold Water ; when you take them out, lay them on a Linnen 
Cloth, dry them well, put them in a Stew-pan with a little 
melted Bacon, and a Bunch of Herbs ; feafon them with Salt 
and Pepper ; add to them fome fmall Mufhrooms, and lliced 
Truffles. Having toffed up all thefe over a Stove, moiften 
it with Gravy, and make it fimmer over a gentle Fire : When 
they are done enough, take off all the Fat, and bind the Ra- 
goo with a Cullis of Veal and Ham. 

Another Way, 

TAKE what Quantity you pleafe of Lamb Stones and 
Sweetbreads, parboil them, and cut them into Slices ; 
Cocks-combs blanch'd and flic'd; then feafon them all with 
Pepper and Salt, and other Spices ; then fry them in a little 
Lard, and drain them, and tofs them up in good Gravy, a 
Bunch of fweet Herbs, two Shalots, fome Mufhrooms, Truf- 
fles ; thicken it with a brown Thickening, with a Glafs of 
Claret j garnifh with red Beet-roots, and pickled Mufh- 
rooms, 

Ttf ragoo Lambs Stones by themfehes. 

TAKE two or three Pair of Lambs Stones, parboil 
them, take off the Skin, and cut them in four or eight 
Pieces, firew fome fine Salt over them, and wipe them dry ; 
flour them without touching them with your Hands ; fry them 
immediately in very hot Hogs Lard, and make them crifp ; 
then difh them up, and ferve away. 

Another Way. 

BEING order'd as thofe before, fry them direftly, but 
keep in readinefs a Pafte made thus, v/s. Mix a certain 
Quantity of Flour with Wine, or Ale, and add Haifa Spoon- 



The Lady's Companion.' 39^ 

ful of Oil, and fome Salt; the Stones being half fry'd, take 
them out, put them in this Pafte, and immediately the Whole 
in hot Hogs Lard, and fry them fome Time ; when enough, 
diih them up hot with fry'd Parlley. 

Jnother Way, after the Italian Manner, 

TAKE off the Skin, cut them in Pieces, and put them 
in a Stew-pan with fome Slices of Onion, Parlley, 
Salt, Pepper, Cloves, Vinegar, and a little Gravy ; let them 
marinate fome Time, then take them out to drain, beat up 
fome Eggs, dip the Lambs Stones in them, ftrew them with 
Crumbs of Bread, fry them, and ferve them up hot with fry'd 
Parfley. At another Time, flour them, and ivy them the 
fame Way. 

To ragoo a Breafl: of Veal. 

STUFF it with Force-meat between the Flefh and the 
Bones, and lard it with large Lardoons of Bacon, and 
half roaft it, then put it into the Stew-pan, over a Stove, with 
Gravy, till it is enough, tofs it up with Force-meat Balis, 
Mufhrooms, Truffles, Morels, Oyfters, l^c. firft ftuffing it all 
up the Brifcuit with Force-meat j garnilh with Lemon llic'd, 
or Orange. 

Another Way. 

TA KE a Breaft of Veal, lay it to the Fire, more tliaa 
half roaft it, cut it into four Pieces, feafon them with 
Salt, Pepper, Nutmeg, Cloves, Mace, a Shalot, and Lemon- 
peel ; put them into a Stew-pan with as much good Gravy 
as will cover them : put in alio Mufhrooms, Oyfters fry'd 
and ftew'd, Svvc '^cbreads Ikinn'd and pull'd in Pieces, and 
let them ftew together; when it is enough, fry your largeft 
Oyfters with crilp^d Bacon and Force-meat Balls ; and take 
the fame Ingredients to make a white Ragoo ; only boil the 
Breaft of Veal in Half Milk, Half Water, with Mace, whole 
Pepper, a Coaple of Bay-leaves, a little Lemon-peel, and a 
Faggot of Aveet Herbs; then when it is enough, wafti it over 
with the Yolks of Eggs, and a little Butter, and put it into 
a Stew-pan foi a little v/hile, juft to give it a yellow Colour, 
and thicken your Sauce with the Yolks of Eggp. and a Piece 
of Butcer rolVd up in Flour, with three Spooiifuls of Cicaai 
thicken'd up together. 



294 5^^^ Lad y's C OM PAN I ON. 

Another Way. 

TAKE your Breaft of Veal, put it into a large Stew- 
pan, put in a Bundle of fweet Herbs, an Onion, fome 
black and white Pepper, a Blade or two of Mace, two or 
three Cloves, a very little Piece of Lemon- peel, and cover it 
3 uil: with Water ; when it is tender take it up, bone it, put 
in the Bones, boil it up till the Gravy is very good, then 
ftrain it off, and if you have a little rich Beef-gravy add a 
Quarter of a Pint, put in Half an Ounce of Truffles and Mo- 
rels, a Spoonful or two of Catchup, two or three Spoonfuls 
of White Wine, and let them all boil together ; in the mean 
Time flour the Veal, and fry it in Butter till it is of a fine 
Brown ; then drain out all the Butter, and pour the Gravy 
you are boiling to the Veal, with a few Muihrooms ; boil ail 
together till the Sauce is rich and thick, and cut a Sweet- 
bread into four. A few Force-meat Balls is proper in it. 
Lay the Veal in the Difh, and pour the Sauce over it. Gar- 
nilli with Lemon. 

Another Way. 

HALF roaO: it, then cut it in four or five Pieces, and 
put them into a Stew-pan, pour over them as much 
llrong Gravy as will cover them, and feafon with Pepper, 
Cloves, Mace, Nutmeg, Salt, an Onion or Shalot, Lemon- 
peel, MujTirooms ; let all Itew ; and when enough, ;fry fome 
large Oyfters with Bacon and Force-meat Balls, and put over 
the Ingredients j then ferve away, and garnilhwith Slices of 
Lemon. 

Another Way* 

BONE it, cut oiTa fquare handfome Piece, then cut the 
other Part into fmall Pieces brown all in Butter, then 
ilew and tofs it up in ftrong Gravy, feafon with Pepper, Salt, 
Cloves, Mace, a little Nutnieg, an Onion, Mufhrcoms, and 
fome fry'd Oyfters ; when near enough thicken it with brown 
Butter, then pour all in your Dilh, and lay on the fquare 
Piece dicM, with fry'd Sweetbreads, and Bacon fry'd in the 
Batter of Eggs, and garjiiih with Cic'd Orajige, 



^Another 



Jhe L AD y'sCoMP AN I ON^ 395 

Another Way, 

ARD your Breaft of Veal with Bacon ; then half boil 
it in Water and Salt, whole Pepper, and a Bunch of 
fweet Heri s ; then take it out, and dull it with fome grated 
Bread, fweet Herbs fhred fmall, grated Nutmeg and Salt all 
mix'd together ; then broil it on both Sides, and make a 
Sauce of Anchovies and Gravy thicken'd up with Butter. 
Garnifh with Pickles. 

To ragoo a Neck of Veal. 

CUT a Neck of Veal into Steaks, feafon them with 
Salt, Pepper, Cloves, and Mace ; lard them with Ba- 
con, Lemou-peel, and Thyme, dip them in the Yolks of 
Eggs ; make a Sheet of Ibong Cap-paper up at the four 
Corners, in the Form of a Dripping-pan, pin up the Corners, 
butter the Paper, and alfo the Gridiron, fet it over a Fire of 
Charcoal, put in your Meat, let it do leifurely, keeping it 
^bailing, and turning to keep in the Gravy : When it is 
enough, have ready rtrong Gravy, feafon it pretty high, put 
in Mufhrooms, and all Sorts of Pickles, fome Force-meat 
Balls dipp'd in the Yolks of Eggs and Flour, Oyfiers ftew'd 
and fry'd, to lay round and a-I op of your Difh, and ferve 
it up. 

If for a brown Ragoo, put in Claret; if for a white, put 
in White Wine, with the Yolks of P^ggs, beat up with three 
Spoonfuls of Cream j and you may put in a young Fowl, 
or a larded Pheafant with Fojce-meat in the Belly, or larded 
Pigeons ; gamilli with Lemon and Barberries, and ferve it 
up. 

A Loin of Veal ragoo'' d. 

LARD your Loin of Veal with thick Slips of Bacon; 
feafon with Salt, Pepper, and Nutmeg ; :ind when it is 
almoU roc-fted enough, put it into a Stew-pan, with good 
Broth, a Giais or two of White Wine, fome of the Dripping, 
a Faggut of fwesttlerbs, fry'd Flour, and a x'iece of a' green 
Lemonj Cover the Pan clofe, and let it fctvv^a liude ; then 
take f:ft foire of the Fat ; fer>'e it np with a uarp Cauce, 
garniHi ^r.'C^ larded Veal Sweetbreads, Cutlets, or what elfe 
you xk-y-:.: ::v. 



4 P 



lagoo 



29^ The Lady's Comp anion. 

j^ Ragoo of Calves Heads. 

TAKE two Calves Heads and boil them? when they 
are cold cut oft all the Lantern Part in Pieces, about 
an Inch long, and about the Breadth of your little Finger^ 
then put the Pieces into a Stew-pan with a little white Gravy, 
twenty Oyllers cut in two or three Pieces, fome little Mufh- 
rooms. Truffles, Morels, (Sweetbreads and Artichoke-Bot- 
toms in Slices, if you like it) a little Juice of Lemon, fea- 
fon with Salt, white Pepper, andaPiece of Mace ; when all 
is ftew'd a little while, put to it two or three Spoonfuls of 
Cream or Milk, the Yolks of two or three Eggs beat, and 
a little fhred Parfley. After the Cream, &c. is put to it, let 
it ftev/ flowly, and keep llirring it to prevent its curdling. 
When you are ready to fei-ve, garnifh your Difh with toafted 
Bread cut like Sippets, Lemon, and a few pickled Mulh- 
rooms. 

Another V/ay, 

BOIL your Head enough, then take Half of it, and 
cut it in thin Slices ; put into a Stew-pan fome Morels, 
Truffles, Mufhrooms, Force-meat Balls, Veal Sweetbreads, 
ilic'd Artichoke-Bottoms, a Faggot of Thyme and Farfley, 
an Onion or Shalot Hic'd, and the Juice of a Lemon, with as 
much Gravy as will moiilen the Whole, let all ftew gently 
for fome Time ; then put to it the Slices of your Head, Ikira 
it well. The other Half Head fcore like Diamonds, crofs 
and crofs, feafon with Pepper and Salt, and rub it over with 
the Yolk of an Egg ; then llrew fome Crumbs of Bread over 
it, and broil it, pour the Ragoo into the Difh you intend to 
ferve, and lay the Half Head in the Middle ; fry the Brains, 
after being boil'd, in Egg and Flour, and lay round your 
Difh, with fry'd Bacon and flic'd Lemon. 

^0 ragoo Hogs Feet and Ears. 

TAKE your Feet and Ears out of the Pickle they arc 
fous'd in, or boil them till they are tender, then cut 
them into little, long, thin Bits, about two Inches long, and 
about a Quarter of an Inch thick ; put them into your Stew- 
pan with Half a Pint of good Gravy, a Glafs of White Wine, 
a good deal of Muftard, a good Piece of Butter rolTd in 
^'-ir, and . little Pepper and Salt i ftir all together till it is 
•t » fell? TiuQliii^rs, and difli ic up . 



ne Lady's Companion. 397 

Note, They make a very pretty Dilh fry'd with Butter and 
•Muftard, and a little good Gravy, if you like it. Then only- 
cut the Feet and Ears in two. You may add Half an Onion, 
cut fmall. 

J Ragoo of Hogs Ears, called the King's Privy Purfe. 

CU T fome Hogs Ears in two, then in long and thin 
Slices; put in a Stew-pan fome Onions cut fmall, a 
Piece of Butter, and tofs it up ; then put in the Ears, flour it 
and moiften it with Gravy ; let all Hew fiowly ; being ready 
to ferve, put in a little Cullis and Muflard, and ferve it up 
hot. 

A Ragoo of Pigs Ears. 

GET a Quantity of Pigs Ears, and boil them in one 
Half Wine, and the other Half Water i cut themin 
fmall Pieces ; then brown a little Butter, and put them in, 
and a pretty deal of Gravy, two Anchovies, a Shalot or two, 
a little Muftard, and fome Slices of Lemon, fome Salt and 
Nutmeg; ftew all thefe together, and Hiake it up thick. 
Garnifh the Difh with Barberries. 

Tc ragoo Sheeps Tongues. 
•^T /"A S H them in feveral Waters, blanch them in boll- 
y V ing Water, then throw them into cold. Take two 
Pounds of Buttock of Beef, cut in Slices, lay them at the 
Bottom of the Stew-pan, with fom.e Slices of Bacon, cover 
it, and fet it o\»er a Stove. When it begins to ftickto the Pan, 
throw in a Handful of Flour, and ftir all together for fome 
Time. Then take your Tongue:, and put them into a Stew- 
pan, with as much Vv^ater and Broth, of each an equal Quan- 
tity, as will cover the Tongues ; then pour the above Ingre- 
dients over them, feafon the Whole with Salt, f'epper, fweet 
Herbs and i:;pices. Onions, Farfley, Gives, Carrots, Farfnips, 
Jlic'd, and Lemon-peel. After havinr^ itev.'d fon^:e Time 
take out your longues, peel oit the S.-in, and flit them in 
two, dip them in a Htde cf the Fat in which they vvere ftew'd, 
drudge them with Crumbs of Bread, bioil them, and ferve 
them with the Ragoo pour'd over uhem. 

Sometir.'es we icrve them with fome Ellence of Ham in 
the Jjctto.a of a Diih, aiid the broil'd Tongues laid round 
it ; and at other TiiTi^s ojily with Verjuice or Vii^egar, Salt, 
and Pepper, 



398 ^^s Lady's Companion. 

A Ragco of Ham. 

CUT fmall Slices of Ham, beat them well, garnifli the 
Bottom of a Stew-pan with them j lay a Difh over 
them, and fet them over a Stove with a genrle Fire ; when 
they tegin to flick to the Pan, put in a little Flour, and keep 
them moving over the Stove -, put in a little Veal-gravy, 
that has no Salt in it, to moillen them : put in fome Pepper, 
and a Faggot of fweet Herbs, and let them fimmer over a 
ilack Fire ; take care your Ragoo be not too fait, put in fome 
CuUis of Veal and Ham to bind it. Serve it in Plates, or 
little Diihes, and ufe it foj: garnilhing of any Dilh of the firft 
Courfe, wherein there is any Bacon. 

To ragoo Ham, or Slices of Gammon of Bacon. 

TO S S up fome Slices of raw Ham in a Stew-pan with 
Butter, i^c. and make a Sauce of Red Wine, beaten 
white Pepper, a pounded Macaroon, Cinnamon, and Sugar. 
Put your Slices of Ham to this Sauce, fqueeze in the Jules' of 
an Orange, and ferve it up. 

To drefs Venifon in Ragoo, 

LA RD a Piece of Venifon with large Lardoons of Ba- 
con, well feafon'd with Salt and Pepper ; fry it in Lard, 
or tofs it up in a Stew-pan with melted Bacon ; then ftew 
it three or four Hours in Broth or boiling Water, and fome 
White Wine, feafon'd with Salt, Nutmeg, two or three Bay- 
leaves, a Piece of green Lemon, and a Faggot of fweet 
Herbs : Thicken the Sauce with Flour, or bind it with a 
^ood Cullis I and when you ferve it up to I'able, add Lemon- 
juice and Capers. 

A Ragoo cf Livers. 

T A K E as many Livers as you would have for your 
Dilh. A Turkey's Liver, and fix Fowls Livers, v;ill 
make a pretty Difh. Pick the Gails from them, ar.d throw 
them into cold Water ; take the fix Livers, put them into 
a Stew-pan with a Quarter of a Pint of Gravy, a Spoonful 
of MuOiroorns, either pickled orfrcHi, a Spoonful of Cai^hup, 
a little Piece of Lutter as big as a N'Titmeg, r- IFd in tlour, 
feafon with Pepper and Salt to ycur Palate. Let them ilev/ 
loftl ;en Minu: s; in the n-. can while broil the Tui key's 
Liver nicely, lay it in ti^e Mitw.ie, and the ftew'd Livers 

round. 



^he Lady's Companion; 399 

round. Pour the Sauce all over, and garnifh with llic'd Le* 
jnon. * 

Another Way. 

GET fome fat Fowls Livers, take ofF the Gall, blanch 
them, and put them into cold Water ; put in a Stew- 
pan fome Mufhrooms, a Bunch of fweet Herbs, and Truffles 
cut in Slices ; moiiten it with Gravy, let it ftew over a flow 
Fire, and being half drefs'd, put in the Livers, but let them 
not be too much done ; when ready, take off the Fat, and 
thicken it with a Cullis, or EiTence of Ham, let it be palat- 
able and high relifh'd. Serve them up hot, with the Ragoo 
over them, on Plates or little Dillie^. 

J Ragoo of Cocks -combs. 

PICK and clean them well, tofs them up in a Stew-pan, 
with melted Bacon, Mufhrooms, and Truffles flic'd, a 
Faggot of fweet Herbs, Salt, and Pepper, put in a little 
Gravy to moiften them, and let them fland over a flow Fire 
to fimmcr ; when they are done, clear off all the Fat, and 
bind the Ragoo with fome Cullis of Veal and Ham. This 
is ufed for garnifhing all Diihes of the firfl Courfe that arc 
Hew'd a la Braife. 

Another Way. 

TAKE fome Mufhrooms, and cut them In Bite, then 
put them in a Stew-pan with a Bunch of fweet Herbs, 
and fome Truffles cut in Slices, if you have any, moiflen it 
with Gravy and Cullis, and let ic ftew flowiy ; put in fome 
Cocks -combs, and the Juice of a Lemon, and take out the 
Bunch of fweet Herbs. Let it be relifhing, and ferve it hot. 

A Ragoo of Cocks-combs nx)ith a whife Sauce. 

PU T in a Stew-pan a Bit of Butter and aBur.ch of fweet 
Herbs, with fome Mufhrooms cut in Bits, and Truffles, 
if you have any ; tofs it up, put in Half a S|.oonful of fine 
Flour, moillen it with a little Broth, and feafon it with Salt 
and Pepper, ii t: it ftew over a flov/ Fire, and after fome Time 
put in your Cocks- combs, and thicken it with the Yolks of 
Eggs and Cream, or Ivlilk, mix'd with a little Nutmeg ; let 
it be reliihing, and ferve it up hot. 



400 The L A D y's Companion." 

ji mix'd Ragoo of Cocks -combs, Cocks-kidneys, and fair 
Livers. 

GE T a Stew-pan, put it in a Bit of Butter, a Bunch of 
fweet Herbs, ibme Mufhrooms and TrufRes ,• put it, 
for a Minute, over the Fire, flour it a little, moiften it with 
Half a Spoonful of Broth, feafon it with Salt and Pepper ; 
let it ftew a little, then put in fome Cocks-combs, Cocks- 
kidneys, fat Livers, and Sweetbreads ; let your Ragoo be 
palatable, thicken it with the Yolks of Eggs ; ferve it up hot 
for a dainty Dilh. 

A Ragoo for a Duck a la Braife, 

THE Ragoo is made either with Veal or Lamb Sweet- 
breads, with fat Livers, Cocks-combs, Mufnrooms, 
Truffles, Afparagus-Tops, and Artichoke-Bottoms : Tofs up 
all this in melted Bacon ; moillen it with good Gravy, bind 
it with a Cullis of Veal and Ham; and when you have difh'd 
up your Duck, pour your Ragoo upon it. 

7o ragoo a Green Goofe. 

CU T your Goofe in two, put it in a Stew-pan of a con- 
venient Size; put at the Bottom of the Pan Slices of 
Bacon, and Beef-fewet cut in Pieces, Onions, Savoury, 
Thyme, and Marjoram, Carrots in Slices, and Lemon, Pep- 
per, Cloves, and Salt, put i:; over a good Charcoal Fire, llir 
and turn it often ; then make a Ragoo of Green Peas, tofs'd 
up with a little frelh Butter, a Bunch of Herbs, Salt, and 
Pepper ; mciften with Gravy, and when you ferve it, thicken 
it with the Yolks of two Eggs beat in Cream or Milk : Dilh 
up your Goofe, and pour the Ragoo upon it. 

This Ragoo ferves for a Breail of Veal, or Pigeons ftew'd. 

7*0 drefs a Goofe in Ragoo. 

FLAT the Breaft down with the Cleaver, then prefs it 
down with }'our Hand, (kin it, dip it into fcalding Wa- 
ter, let it be cold, lard it with Bacon, feafon it well with Pep- 
per, Sale, and a little beaten Mace, then fi jur it all over, take 
a Pound of good Bcef-fewec cut fmall, put it into a deep 
"Stew-pan, let it be melted, then put in your Goofe ; let it be 
brown or both Sides, when it is brown, put in a Pint of boil- 
ing Vv a- er, an Onion or two, a Bundle of fweet Herbs, a 
: Bay-loaf, iome whole Pepper, and a few Cloves, cover it 

clofe. 



The L A D y's Companion. 46$ 

elofe, and let it fiew foftly till it is tender ; about Half an 
Hour will GO it if fmall, if a large one, three Quarters of an 
Hour ; in the mean Time make a Ragoo, boil fome Turnips 
almoft enough, fome Carrots and Onions quite enough ; cut 
them all into imall Pieces, put them into a Stew-pan, with 
Haifa Pint of good Beef-gravy, a little Pepper and Salt, a 
Piece of Butter rolPd in Flour ; let this fcev/ ail together for 
a Quarter of an Hour, take the Goofe and drain it well, then 
lay it in the Difh, and pour the Ragoo over it. Where the 
Onion is diflik'd, leave it out. You may add Cabbage boil'd 
and chopped fmall. 

To make a Ragoo of Gibblets. 

SCALD the Gibblets, and if you have any Cocks-combs, 
fcald them by themfelves, an,d fkin them ; then put them 
into a Pan with ftrong Broth, feafoning them high with Salt, 
Spice, and fweet Herbs, and fimmer them ; then ragoo them 
in melted Bacon, with fome Cives and fhred Parfley ; then 
put them again into their own Broth, and fimmer themj then 
thicken with the Yolks of two Eggs, and ferve them up in 
Plates. 

To ragoo Pigeons, 

WHEN you have lardeci your Pigeons, divide fome 
of them into Hah^es, feafon them with Salt, Pepper, 
Cloves, and Mace, and dip them in the Yolks of Eggs 
beaten ; then make good Store of Butter hot in a Frying-pan, 
and brown it with a little Flour ; then put in your Pigeons 
and juft brown them, then take them out, and put them into 
a Stew-pan, and put to them as much good Gravy as will 
juft cover them ; put in alfo a Faggot of fweet Herbs, and 
fet them a flewing ; when they are moil enough, take out the 
Herbs, and put in Shalot, fome Oyflers and Anchovies, 
Mufhrooms and Pickles ; then when the Pigeons are llew'd 
enough, dilh them, and having ready-roafled Larks, or other 
fmall Birds, lay them round the Difh ; or, if you have no 
Birds, lay Pieces of Sweetbreads dipp'd in the Yolks of Eggs 
and fry'd, and (o ferve them up; garnilh with Slices of 
Orange and Pickles. 



ftf 



402 ^he Lady*s Companion. 

_7i? cirefs Larks in a Ragoo. 

YOUR Larks being drawn, put them into a Stew-pan 
with melted Bacon, Mufhrooms, TrufRes, Capons Li- 
vers, an Onion ftuck with Cloves, and tol's them up ; put in 
a little Cullis, or, inftead of that a little Flour ; then put in 
fome Eeef, or Veal-gravy, let them fimmer for fome Time, 
then beat up an Egg with fome Cream, put it into fome 
minc'd Parfley, pour this into the Stew-pan ; let it have a 
Turn or two over a Stove to thicken it ; take off the Fat, 
fqueeze in fome Juice of Lemon, and ferve it. 

J Ragoo of Eggs. 

BOIL twelve Eggs hard, take off the Shells, and with 
a little Knife very carefully cut the White a-crofs long- 
ways, fo that the White may be in two Halves, and the Yolk 
whole. Be careful neither to break the Whites nor Yolks ; 
take a Quarter of a Pint of pickled Mufhrooms chopp'd very 
fine, Half an Ounce of TrufRes and Morels, boil'd in three 
or four Spoonfuls of Water, fave the Water, and chop the 
TrufHes and Morels very fraall, boil a little Parfley, chop it 
fine, mix them together with the Truffle-water you faved, 
grate a little Nutmeg in, a little beaten Mace, put it into 
the Stew-pan with three Spoonfuls of Water, a Gill of Red 
Wine, one Spoonful of Catchup, a Piece of Butter, as big 
as a large Walnut, rolPd in Flour, flir all together, and let 
it flew. In the mean Time get ready your Eggs, lay the 
Yolks and Whites in Order in your Dilh, the hollow Parts 
of the Whites uppermoft, that they may be fill'd ; take fome 
Crumbs of Bread, and fry them brown and crifp, as you do 
for Larks, with which fill iip the Whites of the Eggs as high 
as they will lie ; then pour in your Sauce all over, and gar- 
nilh with fry'd Crumbs of Bread. This is a very genteel, 
pretty Difh, if it be well done. 

J Ragoo of Cabbage. 

CU T a Cabbage in two in the Middle, blanch it in hot 
Water, fqueeze it, tie it up with Packthread, and put 
it into a Scew-pan, and l^ew it a la Braife ; when it is flew'd, 
drain it, untie it, cut it in little Slices into a Stew-pan, and 
fet it a fmimering with fome Cullis of Veal and Ham to 
thicken it, and ferve it with Meats roafted, boiPd, or flew'd, 
or all Difhes of the iirft Courfe, to which Cabbage is proper. 



ne L A D y's Companion. 403 

To ragoo Cabbage Lettuce, or other Lettuces. 

TAKE the whitell Cabbage Lettuce, and having 
blanch'd them in fcalding Water, take them out of 
it, and put them into cold ; then fqueeze them as dry as yoa 
can, take off all the Green, cut them in fmall Pieces, and 
tofs them up in a Stew-pan with a little melted Bacon, a 
Bunch of favoury Herbs, and feafon the Whole with Salt 
and Pepper. Put to it fome Veal-gravy and Elfence oi Ham, 
and let them fimmer in it ; then take off all the Fat, and bind 
the Ragoo with a Cullis of Veal and Ham. Ufe it to all 
Sorts of Difhes, either roafled or ftew'd, in which you have 
made ufe of Lettuce, or you may put them under a Leg of 
Mutton, or any Fowls dreffed a la Braije, 

A Ragoo of Cardoons. 

PICK and clean your Cardoons, boil them in a large 
Pot Half full of White Wine, with a Lump of Butter 
work'd up with a little Flour, Salt, an Onion lluck with 
Cloves, and two or three Slices of fat Bacon, but do not put 
in the Cardoons till the V/ater boils ; when they are fome« 
thing more than half boiPd, take them up, and let themi 
drain, then fet them a fimmering in a Stew-pan over a gentle 
Fire, with fome thin Cullis of Veal and Ham ; when they 
are enough, and the Cullis is pretty well rtew'd away, put in 
a Bit of Butter as big as a Walnut, work'd up with a little 
Flour, and keep it moving, till the Butter is melted. 

You may make a Ragoo of the Stalks of Cardoons in the 
fame Manner, as alfo Lettuces. 

A Ragoo of Sellery. 

BOIL fome Sellery in Water, fqueeze it well, put it 
into a Stew-pan with feme Cullis of Veal and Ham, 
and fet it over a Fire to fimmer ; when it is enough, put ia 
a Bit of Butter as big as a Walnut, work'd up with a little 
Flour, then add a Drop of Vinegar, and ferve it up in Plates 

or little Dilhes. 

1^ 

Another Way, 

WA S H it very clean, cut it in Pieces about two Inches 
long, put them into a Stew-pan, with juft as much Wa- 
ter as will cover them, tie three or four Blades of Mace, two 
or three Cloves, about twenty Corns of whole Pepper in a 
Muflin Rag loofe, put it into the Stew-pan, a little Onion, a 

little 



4^4 y^^ Lady's Companion.' 

little Bundle of fweet Herbs, cover it clofe, and let it flew 
foftly till tender j then take out the Spice, Onion, and fweet 
Herbs, put in Half an Ounce of Truffles and Morels, two 
Spoonfuls of Catchup, a Gill of Red Wine, a Piece of Butter 
as big as an Egg roird in flour, three French Rolls, feafoa 
with Salt to your Palate, rtir it altogether, cover it clofe, and 
let it ftew till the Sauce is thick and good. Take care your 
Rolls don't break, fhake your Pan often ; when it is enough, 
dilh it up, and garnifh with Lemon. The Yolks of fix hard 
Eggs, or more, put in with the Rolls, will make it a iine 
Diih ; this for a firft Courfe. 

If you would have it white, put in White Wine inllead of 
Red, and fome Cream, for a fecond Courfe. 

Another JVay. 

TAKE fome Heads of Sellery, and blanch them, then 
fqueeze them very dry, and put them in a Stew-pan 
with a CuUis, and let it flew on a flow Fire ; after which, 
thicken it with a Piece of Butter the Bignefs of a Walnut 
dipp'd in Flour, keep flirring it. The Ragoo being relifh- 
ing, put a little Vinegar to it, taking care to make it look 
handfome, but not too thick ; and ferve it with all Sorts of 
Meat, 

A Ragoo of Cauliflowers. 

PICK and clean the Cauliflowers, boil them in clean 
Water, but do not boil them too tender; take them out^ 
and lay them to drain ; then put them into a Stew-pan, put 
to them fome thin Cullis of Veal and Ham ; after they have 
Hmmcr'd a-while, fet them over a briiker Fire, then put in 
it a Bit of Butter about the Bignefs of a Walnut, work'd up 
with a little Flour, to thicken your Ragoo, and a few Drops 
of Vinegar, and ferve them up on little Difhes or Plates. 

A Ragoo of Morels. 

CUT them in long Slices, and wafh them in feveral 
Waters that they may not be gritty ; drain them well, 
and tofs them up in a Stew-pan with fome Butter, or Lard, a 
little fhred Parfley, and a Bunch of fweet Herbs ; moiflen 
them with Veal-gravy, and let them fimmer in it over a flow 
Fire ; when they are done enough, thicken with a proper 
Cullis, and ferve them hot on Plates or little Diflies. 



^ Ragoo 



The L A D y's Companion. 405 

J Ragoo 0/ Morels, for Tljk Days. 

PICK the Stalks ofF your Morels, cut them in two, waih 
them well in feveral Waters : Put them into a Stew-pan 
with a Piece of Bulter, Salt, Pepper, a little fnred Parfiey, 
and a Faggot of favoury Herbs, and tofs them up over the 
Stove ; then moiften them with fome good Fiili-broth. Mean 
while, make a Thickening with the Yolks of two or three 
Eggs, beaten up in Cream, or Milk, and put to it, ftirring it 
till the Ragoo is enough, then ferve them hot in Plates, or 
little Diihes. 

A Ragoo of Morels, the Italian Way, 

PREPARE your Morels as in the above Receipt, then 
cut them in four ; then put a Lump of Butter, with a 
Bunch of fweet Herbs, and the Morels, into a Stew-pan, and 
tofs them up ; then put in a Dull of Flour, and moiften it 
with Gravy, and a Glafs of White Wine, adding to it a Clove 
ofGarlick; being ready to ferve up, thicken your Ragoo with 
a little Cullis, a Spoonful of Oil, and Lemon-juice, which 
laft muft prevail -, let it be of a good Tafte, dilh it up with a 
Cruil of Bread under it, and ferve it up hot. 

A Ragoo of Mulhrooms. 

AFTER having cut your Mulhrooms, tofs them up with 
Butter, or melted Bacon, feafon them with Salt, Pep- 
per, and Parfley Ihred fmall : Moiften them with Flefh -gravy, 
or Fifti-broth ; thicken it with a Cullis of Flelh, or Maigre 
Cullis, or a little Flour, Yolks of Eggs, and Lemon-juice, 
and ferve them up. 

Another Way. 

PEEL and fcrape the Flaps, put a Quart into a Stew- 
pan, a very little Salt, fet them on a quick Fire, let them 
boil up, then take them off, put to them a Gill of Red Wine, 
a Quarter of a Pound of Butter rolFd in a little Flour, a little 
Nutmeg, a little beaten Mace, fet it on the Fire, ftir it now 
and then ; when it is thick and fine, have ready the Yolks of 
fix Eggs beat, and boiPd in a Bladder hard, lay it in the 
Middle of your Difti, and pour the Ragoo over it. Garnifli 
with broil'd Mulhrooms. 



Another 



4o6 I'he Lady*s Companiojc, 

Another IVay. 

FIRST peel your Muflirooms, then put them into Wa» 
ter and Salt to clean them, and Hew them in a Stew-pan 
for Half an Hour, in their own Liquor ; then pour out all 
the Liquor but about two Spoonfuls, and put lo them Half a 
Pint ot flrorg Broth or Gravy, an Onion quartei d, a Bunch 
of Savoury and Thyme, a Iktle crack'd Pepper, a little Nut- 
meg, and two or three Anchovies : Let all thefe flew toge- 
ther for a Quarter of an Hour, then put in a good Quantity 
of Butter, fliake it together, and ferve them up. 

Anoihi. r Way, njcith nxjhite Sauce. 

PICK and v/afh them well, put them into a Stew-pan, 
with a Lump of Butter, and a Bunch of fweet Herbs, 
and tofs them up ; this done, Ilrew them with a Dull of 
Flour, moifien them with Broth, and feafon with S'alt and 
Pepper : Let all limmer, and thicken with four Yolks of 
Eggs, mixM with Cream, and a little Nutmeg. Your Ragoo 
being of a good Tafle, dilh it up, putting at the Bottom of 
the Dilh a Cruft of Bread. 

Another TFay. 

IF you cannot get any green Mufhrooms, you mufl take 
dry ones ; then put them into a Stew-pan, with a Bunch 
of fweet Herbs, and a little Veal-gravy, and let them Hew 
upon a ilow Fire ; being llewM, put in a little EiTence of 
Ham, thicken them with a Veal and Ham CuUis, and ferve 
it up hot. 

J Ragoo of f mall Mufhrooms the Italian Way. 

TAKE fmall MuHirooms, pick and wafh them well, 
then put them into a Stew-pan, with a Ladleful of Oil, 
and a Bunch of fweet Hi^bs ; tofs them up, put to them a 
Glafs of White Wine, feafon with Salt and Pepper, and let 
them fimmsr : Your Ragoo being done, put to it the Juice of 
a Lemon, and ferve it up hot, with a Crull of Bread uncjler it. 
At another TixT.e, do your Muftraooms in Oil, with green 
Onions, Parlley chopped fmall, witii Salt, Pepper, and the 
Juic^ of two Lemons, and tofs them up in their own Liquor; 
whcr :hey are tender, put in a Glafs of White Wine, and 
ferve them up with fmall fry'd Crulls of Bread. 

A Ragoo 



fhe Lady's Companion. 407, 

J Ragoo rf Sorrel. 

HAVING pick'd ) our Sorrel clean from the Stalks, 
let a Sauce-pan over the Fire Half full of Water, 
make it boil ; then put in your Sorrel, giving it a Scald ; then 
take it cut, fqueezing it as you ao Spinach, and dram it. Put 
it into a Stew-pan, with fome thin Luilis of Veal and Ham ; 
feafon it with Salt and Pepper, and fet it a £mmering over 
the Fire : When it has fimnier'd enough, put to it fome Ef- 
fence of Ham. This may be uled in all thofe Dilhes in 
which you ufe Soirel. 

To make a Ragoo of Onions. 

STEW forty or fifty Onions a la Brcuje, then peel them, 
put theni into a Sauce-pan, with fome Cullis of Veal 
and Ham, and let them fimmer for fome Time ; Vvhen they 
have ilew'd enough, put in ibme Cuilis and Muftard to bind, 
your Ragoo. You may ufe it in all thole Dilhes with which 
it is proper to eat Onions. 

Another Way- 

TA K E a Pint of little young Onions, peel them, and 
take four large ones, peel them, and cut them very ' 
fmall ; put a Quarter of a Pound of good Butter into a Stew- 
pan \ when it is melted, and done making a Noife, throw in- 
your Onions, and fry them till they begin to look a little 
brown j then Ihake in a little Flour, and fnake them round 
till they are thick ; throw in a little Salt, and a little beaten 
Pepper, and a Quarter of a Pint of good Gravy, and a Tea- j 
fpoonful of Mullard. Stir all together, and when it is well J 
tafted, and of a good Thicknefs, pour it into your Dilh, and | 
garnifh it with fry'd Crumbs ot Bread or Rafpings. They ' 
make a pretty little Difh, and are very good. You may flrew 
line Rafpings in the Room of Flour, if you pleafe. 

To make a Rago© of Succory. 

SCALD your Succory, cut it, put Lard into a Stew-pan, j 
make it fomewhat brown with Flour, and good Gravy, j 
and let all h . well feafon'd with Salt, Pepper, Spices, and a 
Faggot of 'Wwct Hv'rbs, with a lutle Vinegar ; then p;at in 
your Succory, let it ilew, but not fo ao tu turn black, but that^ • 
it may have a fomewhat firong Savour, and take it up, '^ 



A Ragoo 



4.oS The Lady's Companion. 

J Ragoo 3/" Endive. 

TA K E fome of the be i white Endive, pick it, and 
blancii it in boiling Water, then fqueeze it well, and 
put it on a Dreller to be mined a little. ' This being done, 
put your Endive in a Stew-pan, moiften it with a clear Cullis 
of Yeul and Ham, and let die Whole be itew'd on a How 
Fire. When this is ftew'd, ard grown relifning, make ufe of 
it for every Sort of Difh with Endive ; but if this R.agoo h 
not thought thick enough, put in a little Effence of Ham, or 
a little Cuilis therein, before you ferve it. 

Jnother Ragoo of Endive. 

YOUR Endive muft be prepared as before, with the 
following Difference only, that is to fay, When it is 
minc'd you muil fry it with a good Piece of Butter ; then 
moiften it with Broth inilead of Culli3, and when it is re- 
lilhing, thicken it with a Thickening of Yolks of Eggs and 
Cream. You n.ay make ufe of this Endive with all Sorts 
cf larded Collops, Veal Cutlets, and Fillets of any Meat. 

Another Way. 

TAKE fome fine white Endive, three Heads, la.)' them 
in Salt and Water two or three Hours, take a Hun- 
dred of Afparagus, cut off the green Heads, chop the reft, 
as far as is tender, fmall, lay it in Salt and Water ; take a 
Bunch of Sellery, wafh i:, and fcrape it clean, cut it in Pieces 
about three Inches long, put it into a Sauce-pan, with a Pint 
of Water, three or four Blades of Mace, fome whole Pepper 
ty'd in a Rag ; let it ftew till it is quite tender, then put in 
the Afparagus, Ihake the Sauce-pan, and let it fimmer till the 
Grafb is enough. Take the Endive out of the Water, drain 
it, leave one large Head whole, the other pick Leaf by Leaf, 
put it into a Stew-pan, put to it a Pint of White Wine, cover 
the Pan clofe, let it boil till the Endive is juft enough, then 
put in a Quarter of a Pound of Butter roll'd in Flour, cover 
it c'ofe, ihaking it often. When the Endive is enough take 
it up, lay the whole Head in the Middle, and with a Spoon 
take out the Sellery and Grafs and lay round, the other Part 
©f the Endi^'e over that; then pour the Liquor out of the Sauce- 
prm into 'he Stew-pan, ftir it together, feafon it with Salt, 
and ]iave ready the Yolks of two Eggs, beat up with a Quar- 
ter of a Pint of Cream, and Half a Nutmeg grated in. Mix 
this with the Sauce, keep it Ilirring all one Way till it is 

thick; 



ne L A D y's Companion. 409 

thick ; then pour it over your Ragoo, and fend it to Tabic 
hot. 

A Ragoo of Afparagus, 

YOUR Afparagus having their Heads cut ofF, whiten 
them J when they are blanched enough, put them into 
a Stew-pan, with fome CulJis, and a little EiTence of Ham, 
and let the Whole ftew over a flow Fire. When it is ftewecl 
enough, throw therein a Bit of Butter no bigger than a Nut, 
dipped in fome fine Flour, and ftir your Ragoo now and then. 
Take Care that it be relifhing ; pour in a little Vinegar, 
and ferve it hot. You may make ufe of this Ragoo for all 
Sorts of Fowls, or other Meat. . 

A White Ragoo of Afparagus. 

CU T and blanch fome Afparagus as before, put them 
in a Stew-pan, with a Bit of Butter , fry them a little, 
powder them with a Spoonful of fine Flour, moiften them 
with Broth, feafon them with Salt and Pepper, and let them 
be ftewed. Make a Thickening with feveral Yolks of Eggs, 
diluted with feme Broth, and put therein a little Nutmeg. 
Your Afparagus being relifhing, thicken them with the faid 
Yolks, and make ufe of this Ragoo to put under fome larded 
CoUops, or other Sorts of Meat. 

Another Way. 

SCRAPE an Hundred of Grafs very clean, and throw 
it into cold Water ; v/hcn you have fcraped all, cut as 
far as is good and green, about an Inch long, and take two 
Heads of Endive, clean wafiied and picked, cut it very fmall, 
a large Onion peeled, and cut fmall; put a Quarter of a 
Pound of Bueter into a Stew-pan ; when it is melted, throw- 
in the above Things ; tofs them about, and fry them ten Mi- 
nutes ; then feafon them with a little Pepper and Salt, fhake 
in a little Flour, and pour in Half a Pint of Gravy ; keep 
llirring it till very thick, then pour all into your Difh. Save 
a few of the little Tops of the Grafs to garnilh the Diih, 
with Slices of Lemon or Orange. 

To ragoo the Stalks of Purflain. 

TAKE fome Stalks of Purflain, pick them, cut them 
as long as your Finger, and let them be Half boiled in 
fomeWater, as Cardoons -, the Stalks being blanched, fqueeze 
them, put them in a Stew-pan, with fome Cullis and Grav 
Vo L. I. T 



4ro 27?^ Lady's Companion. 

and let the Whole ftew together ; this done, put to it the 
Eignefs of an Egg of Butter rolled in Flour; keep llirring 
it^ and put a little Vinegar therein. This Ragoo is to be 
ufed with all Firft-courfe Difnes : As for Example, Collops 
of Veal, Pullets, Pigeons, and Mutton, or other Difhes m 
which Purilain is proper. 

To ragoo Cucumbers. 

TAKE two Cucumbers and two Onions, flice them, 
and fry them in a little Butter ; then drain them in a 
Sieve; and put them into a Stew-pan, with fix Spoonfuls of 
Gravy, two of White Wine, a Blade of Mace, and let them 
ftew five or fix Minutes ; then take a Piece of Butter as big 
as a Walnut; roiled in Flour ; Ilir all together, and when 
thick, difh them up. 

Another Way. 

PARE Half a Dozen of Cucumbers, cut them in two 
long-ways, and take out the Seeds ; then cut them in 
little Slices, feafon them with Salt, Pepper, and a little Vine- 
gar ; put to them two or three Onions cut in Slices, and let 
them marinate in this for two Hours ; then dry them in a 
Napkin. Take a Stew-paiJT with a little melted Bacon or 
Butter, and fet over a Stove, put in the Cucumbers, and when 
they begin to brown, moiilen them with Gravy, and fet them 
to fimmer over a flack Fire : When they are enough take all 
the Fat off, bind your Ragoo with a Cullis of Veal or Ham ; 
fee it be well relilhed, and make ufe of it with all Manner 
<)f Meats^ either roafted or flewed, in which Cacumbers are 
proper. 

A Ragoo of f: ufed Cucumbers. 

•'"f-^AKE what Quantity you pleafe, and after you have 
X pared them, and fcooped the Seeds away, blanch them 
in boilino- Water ; take them out, and put them in cold Wa- 
ter ; make your Stuffing after the following Manner : Take 
of Veal, boiled Ham, Beef-fuet, a Sweetbread blanched, 
and Bacon, a little Bit of each, and mince them well ; fea- 
fon with Salt, Pepper, fweet Herbs, AU-fpice, fome Mu{h- 
.:oms, if you have any, Parfley, fhredded Chibbol, fome 
. rumbs of Bread boiled in Milk, and twoYolks of Eggs ; the 
Whole being minced, and mixed together, fill your Lucum- 
bers with it. Then take a Stew-pan, and having put leveral 
Slices of Bacon in it, put your fluffed Cucumbers over them, 

moiften 



The Lady's Companion. 411 

Mioiflen with fome Gravyy, and feafon with Salt, and fomc 
Slices of Onions. Your Cucumbers being drefled, take them 
out, and drain them ; after which, put them in another Stew- 
pan, to Hew a little while, with CuUis and EfTence of Ham. 
You may ufe this Ragoo with what Firll-courfe Dilhes you 
think proper. 

7^ make a Ragoo of TrufHes. 

HAVING peeled your TrufHes, and cut them in Slices, 
wafh and drain them well j put them into a fmall 
Stew-pan, with a little EfTence of Ham, and fet them to flew 
gently over a flack Fire ; when they are enough, thicken 
them with a good Cullis, and fqueeze in the Juice of a Le- 
mon or Orange ^ fervethem in Plates, or little Difhes. 

Another Way. 

ORDER them as before, and put them into a Stew- 
pan, with fome Mufhrooms cut in Slices, and a Bunch 
of fweet Herbs ; feafon it with Salt and Pepper, put in a Bit 
of Butter, give it a Tofs, and moiflen it with a little Gravy 
of Veal, Eflence of Ham, and a Glafs of White Wine ; be- 
ing done, and relifhing, fqueeze in the Juice of an Orange 
er Lemon, and ferve it up hot. 

To ragoo French Beans. 

TA K E a few Beans, boil them tender, then take your 
Stew-pan, put in a Piece of Butter ; when it is melted, 
fhake in fome Flour, and peel a large Onion, flice it, and fry 
It brown in that Butter ; then put in the Beans, fhake in a 
little Pepper and a little Salt, grate a little Nutmeg in, have 
ready the Yolk of an Egg, and fome Cream -^ flir them all 
together for a Minute or two, and difh them up. 

Another Way, 

TA K E a Quarter of a Peck of French Beans, firing 
them, do not fplit them, cut them in three a-crofs, 
lay them m Salt and Water, then take them out, and dry 
theni ]n a coarfe Cloth, fry them brown, then pour out all 
the l^at, put m a Quarter of a Pint of hot Water, flir it into 
the Pan by Degrees, let it boil ; then take a Quarter of a 
Pound of frefh Butter, rolled in a very little Flour, two Spoon- 
fuls of Catchup, one Spoonful of Mufhroom-pickle, and four 
of White W me, an Onion fluck with fix Cloves, two oi 
three Blades of Mace beat, Half a Nutmeg grated, a little 

T 2 Peppei 



^412 ^he L A D y's Companion. 

Pepper and Salt ; ftir it all together for a few Minutes, then 
throw in the Beans, (hake the Pan for a Minute or two, take 
out the Onion, and pour them into your Difli. This is a pretty- 
Sid e-difh, and you may garnifh with what you fanfy, eithef 
.pickled French Beans, Mulhrooms, or Samphire, or any Thing 
clfe. 

A Ragoo of Beans, ijcith a Force. 

RA G O O them as above ; take two large Carrots, 
icrape and boil them tender, then malh them in a Pan, 
leaion with Pepper and Salt, mix them with a little Piece of 
Butter, and the Yolks of two raw Eggs ; make it into what 
Shape you pleafe, and baking it a Quarter of an Hour in a 
quick Oven will do ; but a I'in Oven is the bell. Lay it in 
the \jiddle of theDiih, and the Ragoo round. Serve it up 
lor a ^.:^ Courfe. 

'? Beans ragoo'd at-///^ ^z Cabbage. 

^\ ^ A K E a nice little Cabbage, about as big as a Pint 
\_ Bafon ; when the outfide Leaves, Top, and Stalk are 
Cut ofr, half boil it, cut a Hole in the Middle pretty big, take 
what you cut out, and chop it very fine, with a few of the 
Eeans boiled, a Carrot boiled and malh'd, and a Turnip 
boiled ; mafh all together, put them into a Stew-pan, feafon 
them with Pepper, Salt, and Nutmeg, and a good Piece of 
Butter, Hew them a few Mi^fcites over the Fire, ftirring the 
Fan often. In the mean Time, put the Cabbage into a Stew- 
pan, but take great Care it does not fall to Pieces ; put to it 
four Spoonfuls of Water, two of Wine, and one of Catchup, 
have a Spoonful of Mufhroom-pickle, a Piece of Butter roU'd 
in a little Flour, a very little Pepper, cover it clofe, and let 
it ftew foftiy till it is tender ; then take it up carefully, and 
lay it in the Middle of the Dilh, pour your malh'd Roots in 
the Middle, to fill it up high, and your Ragoo roun^ it ; you 
Biay add the Liquor the Cabbage was ftewed in, fend it to 
Table hot. This will do for a Top, Bottom, Middle, or 
Side-dilh. When Beans are not to be had, you may cut Car- 
rots and Turnips into little Slices, and fry them, the O^rrots 
in little round Slices, the Turnips in long Pieces, about two 
Inches long, and as thick as one's Finger, and tofs them up 
in the Ragoo. fJ 



"To 



The Lad y's Com p a ni on. 41^' 

^0 drefs Beans in Ragoo. 

YOU muft boil your Beans fo that the Skins will flip 
off. Take about a Quart, feafon them with Pepper, 
Salt, and Nutmeg, then flour them, and have ready fomc 
Butter in a Stew-pan, throw in your Beans, fry them of a 
fine Brown, then drain them from the Fat, and lay them in 
your Dilh. Have ready a Quarter of a Pound of Butter 
melted, and Half a Pound of the blanched Beans boiled, 
and beat in a Mortar, with a very little Pepper, Salt, and 
Nutmeg ; then by Degrees mix them in the Butter, and pour 
over the other Beans. Garnilh with a boiled and fried Bean, 
and fo on, till you fill the Rim of your Dilh. They are very 
good without frying, and only plain Butter melted over them, 

J Ragoo /or W!ade Dijhes. 

TAKE Claret, Gravy, fweet Herbs; and favoury Spice - 
what Quantity you think proper, to tofs up with Lamb- 
ftones. Cocks-combs, boile^nd blcii:ched firft, then iliced, 
with Veal Sv/eetbreads, Oyflers, MuHirooms, "i?rufHes, and 
Morels. Thicken thefe with brown Butter, and keep it for 
Uff. 




T 3 A!^l 



"0 



i^ 



y>i 



A N 



INDEX 



OF T H. 



CHAPTERS 



Contained in the 

FIRST VOLUM.E: 



Chap. I. "^ <" 

Of Gravies y Soops, Broths ^ 

Pottages, and Cullifis, 

Page I 

Chap. II. 

Of Fi/h, - - . 57 . 
Ihe 'limes 'when in Seafon, f ^ 
169, & leq. 

Chap. III. 
Of Butcher's Meat 1 7 1 
S eucesi for the fame, 263, 



Chap. IV. 

Of Poultry, Page 273 

Sauces for the fame, 351 

IH'^ Manner of trujjivg the 

fame, - 361, & feq. 

C H A p. V. 

0/ drejjtng of Eggs, j6g 



Chap. VI. 

Of Ragocs. 



^h 



T4 



409 

AN 



A N 



Alphabetical Index 

Of the g;0 N T E N T S of the 

^' VOLUME. 



A. 

ALKMAARSE Grutte, 
aVutzh D{/2^ Page4S 
Anchovies, /jotv to keep them 

165 

^ H*,^^ -■■ r» . m ^^ Sallad of them 

ib. 

Andouilles drejfed ^'i^c^ 

Afparagus ragoo'd 4C9 



49 

and 



B. 

"R^jne Marie 
'Jarbcls, Jle-iv'J, hroWd, 
»dreji au Court Bouillon 9 1 

— '■ • ■— haj]:'' d^ larded, and 

125 
171, & ieq. 

172 



glared 
Bafs ^5//V 
Beef/orff// 

i ^.^r^/? a la Braife 

' ■ f arced 



Beef dreji a la Cholonnoifc, 
arid rolled Page 174 

^o//^</ fi/?^r the French 

Fa/hiofiy carhonaded in the 
Italian Way^ and a Cullis 
of it 175 

"'—-farced Fillets, and E fear ^ 
lots 176 

a la Daube, a la Mode, 

andOli'ves 177 

hofh''dy JieiA^dy and fry d 

, . , - .dreji nvith Cucumbers, and 
the Buttock drejl 179 

the Filltt roafttd, Hotch- 
pot, and rolled \ 80 

Rump Jienved 1 8 i 

Steaks, nvi*hOxfer-faucCy 

Portugal, and Ru?r.p fe^ved 

the French VJ'ay 182 

Beef 



I N D E X. 



Beef, Cakes of it fried-, and 
Jieived in Gobbets the French 

- Way Page 183 

— - Oli<ves of ity fie-i.ved or 

roajied, dreji to eat cold, and 

the Leg of it fewedy and 

Royal 184 

d'-efi a la Vinagrette, 

foufed^ a;^^ Dutch 185 

•— — dreJi en Giaten, Tillets 

after the Indian Manner, 

the Dutch Wa), and nvith 

a Salpicon 186 

" ■■ Leg of baked 187 

ragrSd 388 & 



Bifque of Fijh 

Boar (ivild) the Leg dreJi 

Breams hoird 



feq. 
164 

245 
144 

■ ■ 'broiN, andjleijoed 145 

Broth for Soops and Sauces, 

from I to 6 

'of Roots 6 

of Barley 2 3 

' f or Breakfaf ; njohite 

Broth, and Broth of Calf '/- 

feet, and of Mutton 37 

»■- ■ f or Mornings 38 

'^ijoith Flf/h 42 

fat, and Broth of FiJh 

43 

^ meagre 'with Herbs, and 

Jelly Broth for confumpti've 

Per fans 44 

of Barley, China,. Gra- 

"■^y 47 

Bullock's-Heart roafied,. or 

baked ig6 

Butter, the heft Way of beating 

it up 271 

burnt and clarified ib. 

& feq. 

»■ ■ dranvn, and recovered 

ivhen turned to Oil zyz 



Cabbage ragoo'd Page d,oz 
Cardoons ragood 403- 

Cauliflowers ragoo''d 4-4. 
Calf £ -Head hajh'd 23 2 & feq. 

. roafied, Surfr'.ze, 

and drefi another Way 233. 
ifled <vjith Oy- 
234 

2^S 



fiers, and boiled 
' ~ ■ f oufed 

ragoo'd 396' 

-^ Tongues— See Tongues 

. Feet drefi, and roafied 

235- 

Liver /f;vy? alaBraile., 

and roafied 258 

Chitterlings drefi- 239 

Carp, fievoed vohiie, bronvn, 

eind fried 74 

drefi a la Daube, and a 

la Chambor 1% 

^drefi a la Elloufade, 

and fienvd 76 

broiPd, drefi the ^o\i^- 

mi an Way, au Court Bou- 
illon, and in a D^mi-court- 
Bouillon 77 

larded voith Eel in Ra- 

goo, fievoed a la Roy ale, 
hafijd, and marinated 78 
Bifque of them y and broil- 
ed 79 
' 'boiled, roafied, and baked 
in the Oven 8® 

Roes ragoo''d 3 84- 

Chub, roafied, hroiVd,, und 
boiled 130' 

Cockles y?^zoV 153 

Cocks -combs /ir(/Jr«i;^<*' 358 

* • — ragoo''d 399 

Cod, crimp'' d the Dutch Way^ 
and its Head roafitd, and 
hoird 72- 



5 



Cod. 



INDEX.* 



Cod, Jlenved, the Tail drefi, 
fried, boWdy and the Sound 
only broiled 

' m :. . 'ragoo'd 

Crabs, broiled^ 



Page 75 
38. 
and buttered 
120 
■■ — f ried and Jlenx-ed i 2 1 
i— - — artificial ones ib. & feq. 
Cravvfifti dreft i 5 2 

— — — - rt Bifque of them ib. 
- ragoo'd 3S8 

Crumbs buttered for Larks 
3:8 
Cullis/or/-//^ 48 

' I?/' Cra-jcfijh 4 2 

of various Things in n;a- 

riousWays from^O to ^g 
Curlews potted 332 

D. 

Dabs marinated y and in a Sal- 
lad 1 40 

'Ducklings, a la Mode 224 

Ducks y?5'Vf;!/ the Dutch ^r«r, 
^«(3' w/'//;' Horfe-radifh ib. 

<!/rify? fu;///6 Lemon-juice^ 

fervid and boiled 295 

* dreft ^ith O lives, 'vcith 

Sellery, and nvith Onions 

296 

njji/h Green Peas, and 

<w:th Cucumbers 297 

. drefi a la Braife, and., 

roafud 298 

^ dreft 'With Oyfters, ^juith 

Succory, and boile, ajier the 
French Manner 299 

— ^ — drift a la Braife, nfsith 

Turnips, and iviih Tongues 

300 

*— farced, and a Cullis of 
them 301 

— . — a la Sraife ragoo'd 400 



Eels farced, dreft nvith 'white 
Sauce, and ivith broivn 
Sauce Page 82 

. fried, boiled, drft a la 

Daube, a?id the Englilh 
Way 83 

hafty''d,fte^ d, and foufed 

84 

dreft in CaiTerole, fteived 

and roafted <with Bacon 8 5 

baked 86 

pickled, marinated, fpitch- 

cock''d and '.ollared ^J 

ragco^d 382 

Eggs, made to eat like Mujh- 
rooms 369 

dreft nvith Endive, and 
ftuffed ib. 

their Whites made a pret- 
ty Dip, and dreft fen;eral 
Ways 370 

■ dreft en Crepine, a la 

Tripe, and nvith Anchon^tes 

-' -poacFd njuith Anchon)ies, 
dreft nvith Bread, broiled, 
and dreft nvith Cranvfftj 372 

— — poach'' d nvith Cream, dreft 
Hfjith Cucumbers, and farced 

373 

dreft the Burgundian 

Way, the German Way, 
and the ItaMzn Way 374 
• % ■ ragoo''d 
EndivQ feveral Ways 

F. 



40 2 
408 



Fifli minced, and Balls made of 

them J 68 

the Times when in Sea/on 

169 

Filh 



INDEX. 



Fifli, collaredy ragood Page 

383 & feq. 

Flounders, ijoith Sorrel, and 

boiled - 103 

■ ^ broiTdf and dreji 
ivith Gar lick and Mufiard 

104 

■ dreft fenjeral Ways, 
and Jleived 105 

baked ic6 



Fowls, /arced ^ivith Cra^Mfifh 
and njo'ilh Oyjiers 279 

I — n.vith Osjiers the Fle- 

miih Way, roajied ivith An- 

cbovits, and drejl a laBraiie 

280 

• drejl 'With Chefnuis, 

and a la Sainte Menehout 



—^Surprize 282 

— dreJi a la Tartare, and 

7jied 283 

dreJi in Tillets ivith 



Vijlachoes, a la Bourgeoife 
andhajh'd 284. 

■drejl //^^Englifh Way 



and a la Montmerency 

285 

— boiled ^ith Oyjlers 286 

-roajled nxith MuJIj 



rooms and five et Herbs ib. 

& feq. 

'dreJi a la Braife 2 87 



f arced luith Ancbonjies, 
and n.vith G ranj^ 288 

- ■■ broil'' d, pu/Pdy and 
hajh'd 289 

— — farced Bouillon blanc, 

drefl the Bai'bary Way, 
boiled nxith Afparagus, and 
Jieived 290 

- farced n.vith O-flers^ 
and nvith Sellery 29 1 

French Beans, ragoo'd 41 1 



G. 



Geefe larded and foved, and 

green ones drrft a la Daube 

Page 301 

———-boiled n.vith Cabbage or 

Saufages, foufed, and dried 

302 

drefi woith Onions or 

Cabbaze, and a la Mode 

503 

Gibblets boiled arJfe-ved 

(green and common) ra- 
good 400 L feq. 
Gravy for Soops and Sauces of 
^various Sorts from I to b 
Gruel [Plumb) 48 
Gudgeons y?^w\/ 140 
Gurnets bak'd 143 
broiled nxiith Ancho^uy 
Sauce, dref njciih Cranuffb 
Cullis, and boiled 1 44 

H. 

Haddock, drejl the Dutch 

Way, and broiled 129 

Ham, of Pork, failed to tafte 

like Weftphaiia 240 

of ditto, pickled ibid. 

"—^of ditto, to fa/t 241 
of Beef, 0/ Veal, and of 

Mutton 242 
drefl a la Braife, and 

roafled 243 

and Bacon ragco''d 39^ 

Hare, raajied fenjeral Ways 

339 
— ■ - flenved ib. 

made Ci<vet of, minccdy 

and fried * 3 40 

■ .. .hafped, roafled, and dnfl 

fe'veral Ways 3 4 i 

Hare, 



I N D 

Hare drejl the Swifs Way, the 
trench Way, and jugged 

Heath-cock/m-.i ^'^^1% 
Hern roafied ib. 

Hmmgs (/•,/) ./r./, ^^i,^, 

^^'/V, and fried 147 & feq. 

•— (• f^) ^;y/ a'.///;» Cab- 

^^ge, and pickled 148 

Hodge Podge 23 

Hog's-Head,^/Yy2 ^^f/^ F«- 

/?»/(?« 245 

• Ears forced 246 

"——Feei and Ears drefi ib. 
Hollibut/r/V</ 1 5 1 



J- 



Jack fried 



8c ] 



JCcrvel. See Pottage. 

L. 

L amb, Leg of farced 200 
•— -^ — - Quarter of it rcafted^ 

and dtfj} nuth Rice 2 I 7 
. the Lei forced f ^^^ ^i^- 

Neck or Loin frit d '* '^2 1 8 
» ■ ■ Hiad drift in Voltage^ 

and a Side foujtd a ; 9 

> Bead Jie-'vJ'd, made like 

Venifcn, and the Stoms fried 

220 

».., >... ttheHind-guarttrs ivith 

f^tet Herbs ib. 

, — . Plucks dre.l //^f Italian 

Way, ar.d the Leg marinated 
221 

* Trotters d'efl 222 

■ and Lamb- f ones ra- 



E X. 

Lampreys fried Page 80 

• dreji nuith fweet 

Saufe, and broiled 8 1 

dreft t he ItSilinn Way 

82 

L ap wi ngs feived 329 

Larks ftenued 337 

'• " roajied federal Ways 

dr^Jl Pcar-fa/hion, in 

Shells t and nvith Sage ib. 

-■ ■ -ragoCd 402 

Lettuces ragoo'd 403 

Livers ragoo''d 398 

Lobfters roajied, roajled ali've, 

buttered and broiled 1 1 7 

f ried, marinated^ and 

pickled 1 1 8 

fenfjed, buttered, and 

roofed 1 1 9 

■ afnepijh made of them 

ibid. 

dreft the Italian Way 

12© 

art'ftlal ones i 2 l & 

feq. 

Lump, baked, fried, roafled, 

arid fou fed 141 

M 

Mackarel dreft, pickled, and 
broiled 1 4 2 

~ roafted 1 4 3 

• pickled 1 4 8 

Maids /r;W 143 

Marbrceo/F^ l6| 

Matelottee^do. ib. 

Meat, toprefernjeit njuithSalt 
273 
Melts, broiled 24^ 

M'lhs of Fi/h ragoo'd 382 

Mi ton age, sr foaking Broth 5 
Mofel§ rfl2oo d 404 & feq. 
Mul- 



INDEX. 



Mullets, boiled Page 92 

— ■ ■ bi oiled f fried, and 

marinated 93 

Mufcles, fried and Jieixjed 

149 

— ragoo'' d 



Muflirooms ragoo'' d 
Muftard, to make it 



150 

384 

405 
270 & 
feq. 



Mutton, grilled iJoith Capers 

197 

■' ' Leg of roajied nvith 

Cockles 1 96 

■ drejl a la Hautgout, 

and a la Royale ib. 

Shoulder of dreji in 



Epigram 
Co Hops 



a Hind-Jaddle 
Ditto, a 



197 

- . '9' 

A Harrico of if, aJtd 
ib. 
la Sainte 
Menehout 199 

dref Ham-fajhion ib. 

Amphilias made of it 

ibid. 
Leg of farad 2C0 

Ditto, roajied and 

boiled 201 
Ditto, drejl ijcith Cu- 
cumbers ib. 

Cutlets y the French 

IVay 2 32 

Dit o, a la Mainte- 

non, and marinated ib. 

Shoulder of hajh^d 203 

■ Ditto, carbonadtd 204 

Breaji of rolled and 

foufed ib. 

Chine of, roajied 205 

' -» Neck of dreji and 
Jie'wed ib. ^feq. 

Cutlets 206 

— — Ditto, /mi 2:7 



Mutton, Leg of dreft a la Dau- 

phine, and a la Daube 

Page 207 

■ Loin of dreji andjleiv- 

ed 708 

— Leg of roajied ivitb 

Oyfers ib. & feq. 

•^ Shoulder of dreji in 

Blood 209 

Ditto, dreji the Turk- 
ifll Way 210 

■ Ditto, ^with Ragoo of 
Turnips ib. 

Ditto, dreft a la Rou- 
chi ib. 

*• Leg of larded a la 

Braife, nxjith a Ragoo of 
Chefnuts ib. 

Ditto, to make a Gam- 
mon of it 211 
Ditto, dried J to cut in 



Shl-vers like Dutch Beef 
and dried like Pork ib. 

Rump of dreji tvith 

Rice 2 1 2 

Ditto, a la Sauce Ro- 

bart ib. 

Ditto, a la Sainte Me- 
nehout 2 1 3 

Ditto, farced and fried \ 

ib. ' 



Ditto, 11.1th Parmefan, 

Cheffe ib. < 

Kebobb'dy carbonaded^ I 

and glazed 2\± ' 

—Neck cf, larded nxith 

Barjhy ib. 

Ditto, called the Haftf 

Difh ib. 
Hams made of the Legs 

—•Ditto, dreji a la Braize 

243 

= • ■ ^ ragoo'' d 393 

Neats- 



INDEX. 



N, 



Neats-foot, dreft and fried 

Page 193 

Neats-Tongues. 5'^^Tongues. 

O. 

Olio, ofRicCy <vj'ith a Cullis, 
a la Reine ' 28 

— Spanilh 30&feq. 

^- ' f or Days of Abjiinence 33 
\ ■. ' of Rice, ivith a Cullis ^f 
f Cra^fi/h ib. 



■of Wood Pi 



ofF^f; 193 

i of Veal 225 

Onions ragoo''d 407 

Ortolans, roajied and fried 

331 

O X -cheeks ^rtif^ i93&feq. 

»■ I — boiled J to be eaten 

cold 194 

^ Ditto marinated 

ibid. 

> ... Palates, &c. w«- 
rinated and roajied 195 

■ ft eijjed and pickled 

196 

Oyfters pvjed 1 5 3 

. /« French i?o//j, «7z^ 

ro^^^ i54&req. 

> J ienved /^^French /^aj», 
fl«^ broiled I 5 5 

. Z'm/f </ //^f D utch ^flj, 

farced and fried I 5 6 

t drejl on Ske^vers, and 

halh'd 158 

• grilled in Scollop-Jhells 

»59 

pickled 1 60 & feq. 

m . . n — drffl in Loa<ves 161 

— — au Farmefan, anda.\a. 

Daube 162 



Oyllers foufed and fcollo-fd 
Page 162 

■ i I mragoo''d 386 

P. 

Partridges, ^r^/ a la Braife 3 1 9 

dreji a Biberot 320 

— 'Pains, and dreft 

n^vith fnjoeet Herbs ib. 

———a PEftoffade, /^w- 

ed, and roajied 3 21 

■ boiled, in Gallimau- 
fry, and nvitb Oli<ves 322 

■ dreJi fuiith Oyfters^ 

andhafid 323 

boiled 326 

Peacock boiled 327 

Perch boiVd, dreJi with Jn- 

choiy-fauce, and nxnth a 

Cullis of Craivfijh 123 

drejl in Fillets I 24 

fried, and drejl the Ar- 
menian Way ib. 
-'ragoo''d 384 
Pheafants roajied 3 2 3 & feq, 

■ drejl nvith Carp- 
fauce 324 

with Oyjiers the Ita- 
lian Way, and <vjith Oli'ves 

325 
■I I boiled federal Ways 

326 

■ J lenved, and drejl a 
la Braife 327 

Pig, Feet and Ears of drejl 
246 

Ditto, in Imifation of 

Branjun, foufed for Braivn, 
and rcafied 2/^J 

dreji federal Ways 248 

"——Lambfafhion, Rolliard, 
and in felly ib. 

*~.~^ drejl the French Way^ 
and 



I N D E X, 



and au pere douillet Page 
249 

Pig, drejl the German Way 
250 

-—^-Meteloty and foufed ib. 

m-^^roajied i/jith the Hair on 
251 

»~~mroaJled nx;ith Skin off, and 
boiled ib. 

^-^drfjl to tafle like ivildBoar 

> — Pettitoes a la Sainte Me- 

rehout 253 

"—"Feet and Ears ragoo^d 397 

Pigeons roafled 305 

hoirdy and dreji a la 

Daube 306 

■ ■ dreJi au poir, Jio^ed, 

and fur tout 307 

t dreji a la Crepandine, 

««</ en compote 308 

■ ■ // Pup ton of them 309 
■■ boWd nx'ith Rice, and 

tranfmogrified ib. 

■ ■ Fric undoes roajlednxiith 

a Farce, and drefi a foleil 

310 

■ dre/i in a Hole, in pirn - 

lico^ and juzg d 31 i 

' ■ ■■ f lexed fe'veral Ways 

2,12 Sc feq. 

dref a la Braife, nviih 

fixieet Baft I, and fried 314 

■ dreft au gratin, and 
broiled nvhole 315" 

- -dreJi ^Mith Fennel 3 1 6 

boiled luith Capers and 

S a 7^ phi re ib. 

■drej} a la Saingaraz 

ibid. 

' a Bifque of them 3 1 7 

' drefl a la Sainte Me- 

r.ehout ib. 



Pigeons, drefl a la Tartars 

and --with Fruffies Page 3 1 8 

a Cullis of them 3 1 9 

■ ragcod 40 1 

Pike, ^-/^y?//^(? German ^^'93 

dref au fvvimmierj/^i//'^, 

and "with Oyfiers 94 

— — farced and boiled 9 5 

& feq, 

drefl a Cabilo,/yt^£ Dutch 

Way ^. 96 

drtfl in Cafierole 97 

fried in Fillets, and mari- 
nated ib, 
-.^^^fried, drefl a la Saint Ro- 
bart, and flenued the French 
Way 98 
fi e^wcd another Way, and 
roafled divers Ways 99 & 
feq. 
ha^fhcd, and drefl luith 
White Sauce 100 
— ^rf/? au Court Bouillon, 
and broiled loi 

Ll-oers ragoo''d 382 

Pilchards broiled 151 
Y\2^\CQ boiled 103 & feq. 
broiled, and drefl ^jjith 
Ga rlick and Muflai d 104 
» ■ fieswed 105 
drrft^jjithCra-u:fifl^ Cul- 
lis, ^vith Ancho'vy andCafer^ 
fauce, and baked 1 06 
Plovers drefl ^^j 5 

Capuchin 337 

Pork, Leg of drefl Ham-fa- 
fhion 239 

pickled, and dreft to tafle 

like Wefrphalia 240 

Ditto pickled ibid. & 

feq. 
• 'roafled iK-ithout the Skin 

BreaJ} r/, roafled ib. 

Pork 



I N D E X. 



\ 



Pork Sieah broiled Page 244 

■ Loin of, dreji ^vjith Onions 

245 

^.^^^Chine or Leg of roajled 

and fluffed ibid. 

Pottage of Chervil f the Dutch 

Way 1 2 

*• Mae Si or a Kervel 13 

Royal 15 

of Eel pout 1 7 

. " of glazed Scotch Col- 
lops ib. 
» Italian 19 
•———of Chefnuts 20 

— ' g/* Lentils y and of Teas 

21 

> ' of Spinach, Succory, and 
Barley 22 

— ■■ ■ " g/' Ducks and Turnips 
24 

> a la Jacobine 25 

— g/' Co'VJ-heel, and of 
forced Pigeons nvith Onions 

^ " ibid. 

of Partridges 26 

— g/* Ditto, a la Reine, 
c«^ a la HoiTzarde 27 

-^ of Rice, the Polifh /T^,;, 

a^d 0/ S^2Ln\(h Cardoo/js 28 

•— — — 5/^ Wood Pigeohs, cf 

Teals, or other Birds, nvith 

hlujhroms 3 3 

^ " of Plumbs for Chrifl- 

mas 34 & feq. 

' n.V2thout Water 39 

//^-g French /^/^ay 40 

> ■■ the Italian Way 41 
a la Reine, de Sainte, 

and prof trole ibid. 

•■ Summey, and Without 

the Sight cf Herbs 42 

•— cf Goofc'gibhlets, of a 

Fc^.vly and of Parmefan 

Cherfe 45 



Pottage, of a Lamb's-Head 

Page 46 

another good Sort ib . 

'PrsLV/ns fe-ived 153 

Purflain ragoo'd 41© 



Quails boiled 


326 


roafed 


^32 


A Pupton of them 


^^^ 


^--^dreji a la Braife 


3^^ 


A Bifque of them 


ib. 



R. 



Rabbits, Portuguefe 343 

■ -ixith On. on St Surprize, 

and boihd ib. 

■ dr eft f enteral Ways 344. 

An Efclope of them 345 

baked 'vjith Slices of 

Bacon, and hajhed 346. 

— — — — roafied, ivith a Farce, 

and drefi in Caflerole 347 

•fenj,ed, the French 

Way, and mumbled 348 

RagOO of Sturgeon, frefh Cod, 

Salt Cod, after the Italian 

Way, &c. 381 

.^ cf Eel Pouts, and of 

Milts cf Ff en Gras 382 

of Ditto, en maigre 

ibid. 

— of Pike Livers ib. 

cf collar d Fifh 383 

cf Perches, c/" ditto cut- 
in Pieces, rf Carpi Ross, 
andofMifcles 384 
of Mufclcs, <^Mith a 

385 



nxihite Sauce 



■ofO\fters,fe<veraUVays 
336 & feq. 
•of Crav^ffh for F<fi- 



D. 



'r> 



INDEX, 



DaySf and of Ditto for 
Fle/h-Days Page 388 

RagOO of Sme/fSf and of Pa- 
lates of Beef ibid. 
the Italian Way, and 
of Beef fe-veral IVays 389 
of Mutton 390 
»■■ of Sheep s Tongues ib. 
&feq. 
of Lamh, fever alWays, 

■ of Lamhflones and 
Snveetbreadsy fe^veral Ways 

392 

— of Ditto the Italian 

Way 393 

■■ of Breaji of Veal, fe- 

njeral Ways ib. & feq. 

' of Loin of Vealy and 

Neck of Veal 395 

■ ■ of Cahe's Head 396 
"" -'■'■ of Hog's Feet and Ears 

ib. & feq. 

' of Pigs Ears, and 

Sheeps Tongues 397 

'•of Ham, and Bacon, 

andofVenifon 398 

■ of Livers i b . & feq. 

of Cocks-combs federal 

Ways 399 

■ of a Duck a la Braife 

400 

"" " - ^ cf a green Goofe, and a 

common Goofe ib. 

ofGeefe Gihhlets^ and of 

401 

' of Larks 402 

"/ ^ig^y and of Cab - 

%^ ^ ib. 

of Lettuces, andofCar- 

doons, and S tilery 403 

of Caulif Olivers, and of 

Morels 404 

of Morels frFiJh-Days 

465 



Pigeons 



Ragoo of Morels the Italian 

Way, and ofMufhrooms Page 

405 & feq. 

of Sorrel, Onions, and 

of Succory 407 

Of Endive divers Wavs 

408 

ofAfparagus 409 

of Pur fain ib. 

f Cucumbers fever al 

Ways 410 

of Truffles and French 

Beans 41 1 

of Beans, vsith a Force 

412 

of Ditto, vcith a Cab* 

bage ib. 



'for Beans, and made 
Dijhes 41 3 

Raies fried i 5 1 



boiled 



349 



Ramolade, « particular Sauce 
167 
Roaches ^m/^^ 135 

» ' ■ ■ ' 'bm led, fried, and ma- 
rinated ib. 
■ en marinade, «»///« 
Slices 136 
Ruddock ^j'/v/? «/ Ducks ^26 
Ruffs ^WReifs 332 

S. 

Salmon, au Court Bouillon, 

«W a la Braife 57 

maigre for Fifh-Days 

58 
'in Cafs ib. 

~ -Jo^e of, the Dutch 

Way ib^ 

'baked and broiled 59 

Tail-piece, drejl in 

CafTerole 60 

■ y ^rf^^' /« 5//V<?/ 6 1 

Salmon,, 



I N D 

Salmon, roapdnvhoU Page 6 1 
^ ■ fi eixied and hajhed (:iZ 

— ■ " a P Upton made of ity 

ib. & feq. 

» ' fried 63 

> ■ ' ■ marinated y and in 

Surprize ivithGranjy 64 

■ boiled 65 
>■ y c/^ ^tf ;/f ^, andfoufed 

66 

>■ /«g<7V <2 Salladofy ma- 

rinated and fried ib. 

^ " <//-f/? ac'//^ f^weet 

Sauce, in StofFado, ^?«i 
pickled 6 J 

■■ pickled, recovered 

nvhen decayed, and kept 
frejh for a Month 68 

Sak-fifhyr;V^, and farced 107 

<//^ a la Sainte Me- 

nehout, «»^ a la Monti- 

zeur 108 

Sandling marinated ^ anddref 
inaSallad 140 

S auce for divers Ti/hes 1 66 
&feq. 

i i f everal Sorts for Pig 

252 

■■ ' for boiled Mutton 263 

■ I in RavigottO, and 

Poverade 264 

■ f or boiled Beef ajter 
the Ruffian Manner, and for 
minced Beef ib. 

^ ijoith Pepper, Capers, 

Truffles, and Onions 266 

»• Carriers, Ditto nx^nth 

Oil, A^Robart ib. 

•_ . -n.n/if of Ham ib. 

— . ..'green 267 

f or a Shoulder of Mut- 
ton, and for Steaks ib. 

.^ Dutch JVay for Meat 

or Fijb 268 



E X. 

Sauce, for roofed Tongues, or 

Fenifon Page 268 & feq. 

■ ■ ■ f or a Shoulder oj Veal 

269 

for Veal Cutlets, and 

for ary Meat roajied ib. 

in Ramolade, hot 270 

-jjith Mutton Gratvy, 

with Shalots, and ivith An- 

chouies ib, 

for boiled Chickens 35 



f r Ditto, and divers 
other Foixls ^^2 to 360 

Saufages Royal 253 

Oyfer 254 

" Oxford, common t fine, 

ibid. 

■ f ried 255 

'Bolognia ib. 

Scate critnpt 1 01 

dreji the Dutch or Eng- 

liih Way 102 

au Court Bouillon, and 

njoith Anchovy Sauce ib. 

■ ■ f ried nuith a bro<vjn Sauce 

103 

S coll op s Jieived 150 

Sea-Fowls, boiled or fie'voed 

Sellery ragoo'd 403 

Shads broiled, boiled, and dreJi 
au Court Bouillon 1 36 
Sheeps Tongues ragoo'd 390 
and 397 
Shrimps buttered and grilled 

Smelts fried, drejl au Court 
Bouillon, and 7narlnated 

137 

• fi enAjed an^ pickled 148 

&feq. 

' rago'jd 3^^ 

Snipes, ri*^^*^ 3^9 

Snipes, 



INDEX. 



Snipes, in a Surtout, hoUed, 

p^edy or fried Page 330 

^oaXsyivitha RagooofCra'UJ- 

fijh 109 

, dtfji in Chair.paigne, 

and marinated ib. 

— ^j Suriout of them no 
m...^--^ boiled, and dreji ^with 

Cucumbers 1 1 1 

w^-'^in Fricandos, and fried 

fenjeral IVays 1 1 2 
roafedy foufeiy and drefi 

the Spanifli Way 1 1 3 

^^^ drefi the Dutch Way 114 

"—•^larded and fie wed ibid. 

& feq. 

^-^^drefi a laSainte Mene- 

hout, and farced n.mth fvjeet 

Herbs 115 

dreJi njoith Fennel, and 

Lettuce 1 1 6 

■ I 'fluffed ivith Anchovies ib. 

baked 1 1 7 

Soop, of Green Peas, 'without 

Meat 6 

■I of young Green Peas ib. 
& feq. 
^^"^of dried Peas 7 

»~— -of Peas for Lent 8 & 
feq. 
T . - de Sainte Z/?)^ French Way 

9 

^-—^^the Englifh Way 10 

—Lorraine, fl«^ Vermi- 
celli 1 1 

■ au Bourgeois, andofA'- 
tichoh.es 1 2 

of Sa<voys i 3 

« "- of Sorrel, ^ujith Eggs, and 

of Craivfjh 1 4 

——^ofLobfiers, and of Muf cits 

""—^-cf Scate or Thornback, and 
Ofiers 1 6 



Soop, of Eels Page 1 7 

,?/ Gr^T^jr 1 8 & feq. 

— 0/' Almonds and R ice 1 9 

— — of forced Green Geefe^ and 

of Turnips 20 

of Millet and Veal 2 2 

&feq. 
"'—'ofOnicns andEggs 29 

Cake made of Veal, to he 

carried in the Pocket 35 

Cake of Beef, &c. 36 

,—^^of Afparagus 38 

of Cucumbers, of Onions, 

and Purflaine 39 

—0/ C^/v^i Hwi 45 

of Hares 4^ 

Sorrel ragoo'd 4° 7 

Sprats, pickled like Anchonjies 
165 
Stock /er F/y!?' Soops, and Herb- 
Soops $ 

Stuffing/or« Calfi Heart 267 

.>r Veal 268 

y gr <? Sirloin, or a 

Rump of Beef ib. 

. ■■ y or broiled Pigeons 3 5 1 

y or a Turkey, and for a 

Jiubble Goofe ib. 

Sturgeons, /ro»z Hambourg, 

/i? f«r^ or ^/c/^/(? 1 30 

■ ■ /» prepare their 
Spaivn 131 

■ to roafi Part of a 
frefh one ib. 

■ to roafi the Fillet 

or Collar 132 

to boil Part of a 

frefh one ib. 



'to fry, broil, or drefs 
Part of a frefh one m Hari- 
cot, ixith Turnips 1 3 3 
dreJi a la Sainte 



Menehout, marinated and 

foufed 1 34 

Stur. 



INDEX. 



Sturgeons, Welih Page 134 

' ragoo'd ' i%\ 

Succory ragoo'd 407 

Sweetbreads ragoo'd fe'veral 

Ways 392 

T. 

Teals, roafted nxnth Olives, 

'with Oyfters, andShalots 348 

boiled 347 

Tench fie^ed and farced 89 

^'boiled 88 

■ " baked and roajled 89 
- ' ^ - f ried, foufedj and mari- 
nated 90 

Terrine, a la Bavaroife 50 

Thornback, dreji //^^ Dutch 

or'En^i^Way 102 

— drejl au Court 

illon ibid. 

les, fried and roafted 

328 

e and Udder roafted 

187 & feq. 

i\^^^/V, dreft the Polifli 

188 

Ditto/r/V^/ ib. 

Ox, dreft a la Mode 

189 

'bleat'' s, dreft a laBraife, 

and boiled ibid. 

»-^ ^Ditto fried, roafted, 

and ftenved 1 90 

— — — Ditto haftyed, pickled, 

and dreft the Italian Way 

191 

V ■ Ditto dried 192 

roafted Kjcith farced 

Udders, and Udders in Stuf- 

fado ibid. 

■ ' Ditto marinated 1 9 3 

■ Sheep's, dreft nvith Oy- 
jUrs ai5 



Tongue, Sheep's, larded, and 
dreft the German Way 2 1 6 
Ditto in Papers ib. 
'^ Calfs, farced, boiled, 
and roajied 235" 

Tripe, dreft the Polilh Way, 
and roafted 26 1 

*—'^~ drift nvith Saffron and 
Rice, and fried 262 

'boiled, and made Cocks- 
combs of 263 
Trottersfarced 2 1 5 & feq. 
' dreft in Surtout 2 1 7 

• -/za £«/ry of them 

forced ibid. 

Trouts foufed 66 

^/></ i^W boiled 125 

• ^foufed, and Virginia 
126 
'pickled and marinated 
127 
■ ' ft eixed, €tnd dreft feve- 
ral other Ways ib. & feq. 
Truffles ragoo d 41 1 
Tunnies <3^r^ 151 
Turbut boiled 68 
dreft au Court Bouil- 
lon, glazed, and larded 69 
—dreft nx)ith Veal Gravy 



70 

■ baked, and dreft the 

Italian Way ib. 

——fried, foufed, andftenxi'd 

71 
Turkey roafted 273 

• nvith Oyfters 274 

■ ■ f orcedijoith Herbs, and 
njuith Oyfters, after the 
Dutch Way ibid. 

»' - ^th Shalots zj^ 

• an Entry of its Wings 

ibid. 

' I ■ .1. roafted ivith Spanifh 

Car- 




N D E X. 



: Cardoons, carhonaded, and 

drefi ivilh Onion BJfence 

Page 276 

f oufed and Jlenued 277 

. mdreji ivith Cream 27B 

V. 

Veal, Glue of, to be carried in 
the Pocket 35 

Loin of, dreji a la Braife 

222 

made a la Mode _ ib. 

. ^r^/alaBourgeoife 223 

Leg of boiled nxith Bacon 

ibid. 
- - ^Loin of marinated 224 

i a Pillar of it ib. 

'bombarded lb. 

' drefi a 1 a D aube 225 

Oll<vei of it ib. 

Collops of it drejl 226 

^Scotch Collops, and 'white 

Scotch ditto ib. & feq. 

Balls of different Sorts 

227 

Bread of, in Galen tine 

228 

— - — Jigget drpjl a la Daube 

ibid. 

Loaf made of it ib. 

- • ■ - J h've, ajid JieiMcd 229 
Blanquits 2 30 

Knuckle flen.md ib. 

fillet, nviih Collops, and 

fried ib. 

- ■ ■ f orced, and roajied, and 

drejl 'with farcing Herbs 

231 
'Shoulder boiled ib. 

—Ditto, a la Piemontoife 

232 

'-—^Neck of, in Forced -Meat 

Cutlets ib. 



Veal, Breaf of, ragoo'd Page 

232 

—^—•S'weet breads fried 236 

——Ditto dre/i a la Dauphinc 

237 

—Ditto farced a la Dau- 

phine ib. 

'^"-—Pricandoes of it ib. 

■ Hams made of it z\z 

Breaji of, ragoo'dfe'veral 

Ways 393 & feq. 

——^ Loin and Neck of, ragoo'd 

395 

Venifon, Haunch of, roajied 

256 & feq. 

* ' ■■ Shoulder of, roajied 

257 

»' " - Civet of it ib. 

■— " ' 'to keep all the Tear 
258 
artificial, and boiled 
ib. & feq. 
■• broiled, and femey 

259 

foufed, fenfjed, and 

dreJi in Blood 260 

'dreJi a la Royale in 
Blood ib. 

— — — recovered when de- 
cayed ib. 

— — dreJi in A-vet 261 

— BrcaJi of, made a 



pretty Dijh 
<• - ragoo'd 



ib. 
398 



129 
and 



W. 

Water-fookey 
Weavers, Jiewed, fried, 

broil, d 138 
dreJi ^wiih Oyfters, 

>39 

33* 



and rotijied 
Wheat-Ears potted 
V^hiim^s fried,drcf /^f Dutch 

, Way, andjie^wed 146 



Widgeons 



INDEX, 



Widgeons hailed Page 337 

W- Id- Fowls y?^w^^ 351 

Woodcocks boiled 326 

■ ■■ ...■■■ dreji in a Surtout 
330 
I roafied 334 



Woodcocks, dreJi the French 
Way^ in a Surtout^ and 
boiled Page 335 

II I I ■111 I ■ tdreji divers Ways 
336 



'•^J. 




Ihe END of the First Volume, 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 






3 9999 06321 882 8 




ipilt 



