A J 3 ' 

GENERAL 

DICTIONARY 

O F 

HUSBANDRY, 

PLANTING, GARDENING, 

AND THE 

Vegetable Part of the Materia Medica-, 

WITH THE 

Defcription, Ufe, and Medicinal Virtues 

OF THE SEVERAL 

HERBS, FLOWERS, ROOTS, &c. 

Selected from the Beji Authorities, 

BY THE 

EDITORS of the FARMER'S MAGAZINE. 

VOLUME I. 
BATH; Printed by R. CRUTTWELL; 

And sold by W. GOLDSMITH, No. 24, Pater-noster-Row, Londok, 

AND BY ALL OTHER BOOKSELLERS, 

M DCC LXXIX, 



f% 







[ i» ] 



PREFACE. 



T IT 7HEN we confider the great advantages of Agriculture 
to mankind, we need not wonder to find fo many 
books written on the fubje£t. ; but we muft own we wonder 
to find, that fo many fbould have been written fo badjy ; as 
if the Ample operations of Nature in Vegetation were as ob- 
fcure as Metaphyfics or the Arcana of Chemiflry. Hearfay 
is taken for ocular demonstration, and calculations made in 
the clofet are printed as though they were the refult of ex- 
perience, or made from a real furvey and the exacl journal 
of a Farmer : fuch works as thefe may amufe the api on- 
ftring farmer, or fpeculative ftudent, but they will be laughed 
at by men of bufinefs and real underftanding. 

We have read fome author who makes a diftin&ion be- 
tween Learning and Languages, and there is certainly a very 
eflential difference between the learning of a practical ob- 
fervant Farmer and the pedantic performances of a clofeted 
Bookworm. Theory mould always be founded on Pra&ice, 
— never fhould precede it; if it does, it will be more abfurd 
than ufeful. Although it is not at all neceffary for a Farmer 
to underfrand Latin and Greek, yet we can fee no reafon 
why Latin and Greek fhould injure his ploughfhare, or mil- 
dew his crops, provided he pays that attention to his bufi- 
nefs which the nature of that bufinefs requires. With all 

b the 



[ fr ] 

the graceful charms of poetry in Virgil's Georgicks, we meet 
with the precepts of the hufbandman; the Gentleman is 
mixed with the Scholar ; and the man of Science is truly 
polite. 

Induflry is the life and foul of Hulbandry: Buftle, buftle, 
mould be the watch-word of a farmer. " We will go and do 
" it 5 ' is of ten times more confequence in bufinefs than the 
command, firriply, " Go and do it." The matter's eye mould 
fee all, and his hand afRft in all the occupations of his farm; 
he fhould rife early and never fail to vifit his fields daily. 
As he rifes early, fo alfo he lhould go early to his bed ; and 
joining temperance and fobriety to his induflry and regula- 
rity, he will feldom fail to enjoy the greatefl of all temporal 
bleflings — Health, Peace, and Contentment. In his family 
he lhould be regular, and teach, not by precept but, by ex- 
ample. As he refembles the Patriaichs in the fimplicity of 
his life, fo mould he alfo endeavour to purfue their loot- 
fleps in every moral and religious duty. He fhould be the 
'friend, the guardian, and the father of the poor; not to fup- 
jpoxt them in idlenefs, but to excite them by an honeft in- 
duflry to fupply their own wants. 

Of all the bufineffes in life, that of a Farmer is the raoft in- 
dependent : while others are endeavoui ing, by every art and 
means they can employ, to fell or difpofe of their commo- 
dities at the cheapell rate, the farmer is always fure to find 
3 ready fale at a market price; his commodities alone fell 
for ready money; all others fubmit to Credit. But this in- 
dependence can only be fupported by care and attention to 
his farm ; he lhould not only fee, and affift in all, but he 
ihouU alfo enquire of his fcrvants into the Hate of all mat- 
ters every morning and every evening ; it will be no mean 
condefcenfion, nor need he be aihamed of paying attention 
to his ploughman or his co\v«boy j by afking often, he will 

accuilom 



[ v ] 

accuftom the man to tell him if there be ought amifs. In 
the morning, when he rifes, he will do well to examine with 
circumfpecuon into every thing, animal and vegetable, from 
the liable to the barn, to the pigs, to the fheep, to the cows ; 
he muft extend his care to the fences and the corn, to the 
condition of his waggons, his carts, his ploughs, and their 
appurtenances. His management mould be as exa£l as his 
attention. 

No fervants mould be kept but fiich only as are induftri- 
ous. The care of the cattle mould not be entruiled to any 
fervant that is not a mart of humanity; a horfe. or an ox 
cannot tell their matter their injuries, or complain of the ill 
ufage they receive too often from the wretch who drives 
them. A knowledge of human nature will lead us. eafily to 
difcriminate the good from the bad among the labouring part 
of mankind, and we fhall not be often miftaken where an 
attempt at politenefs has not veiled the other vices over 
with the additional one of hypocrify; we may eafily enough 
diftinguifh the temper of an undebauched ruflick, but a 
canting whining one will certainly be deceitful. 

Some perfons perhaps may think it a matter of fmall mo- 
ment when we advife thar the farmers' fervants mould regu- 
larly attend divine fervice; but we think it important and 
consequential ; for they will feldom ferve their matters faith- 
fully, who do not ferve their God attentively ; and we re- 
commend " The Husbandman's Spiritual Compa- 
'nion" as a proper vade-mecum for every Farmer and his 
fervant. 

While the Farmers of different counties may purfue dif- 
ferent modes of Agriculture, peculiar or proper only to the 
counties they inhabit, we may find almoft a famenefs among 
the good Farmers of every county ; thus an inhabitant of 

the 



[ vi J 

the IHe of Wight will be found to follow the fame courfe 
that a Norfolk Farmer on the fame kind of land would wifh 
to purfue ; but were a Farmer irrationally to change a fyftem 
he had found fuccefslul to another he had feen prove better 
on land of different properties, he would ftand a much fairer 
chance of ruin than advantage. Not only farms, but fitua- 
tions alfo, will require and demand a difference of culture 
on lands of the fame nature in different fnuations, or diffe- 
rently circumflanced ; where there is great plenty of mea- 
dow grafs, lefs clover will be required ; and where no flock 
is kept, turnips will be linneceflary. - /// d,ic 

Land is kept in heajt by a change from corn to pulfe, 
turnips, clover, &c. and obvioufly requires fuch change. 
Human nature calls for a change of food, and the greatefl 
labour and exercife are requifite to make any one laftingly 
wholefome. 

Purfuits of a different nature from his own bufinefs will 
never enrich the Farmer: the care of a farm is conflant and 
urgent ; every neglect is important, and the lofs of a day 
may be the lofs of a year. 

It would be needlefs in this place to point out all the 
work that a Farmer has to do; it is almoft impoffible; one 
farm will differ from another in fituation and in foil; one 
will want floating, another will want draining, the foil of 
one may be gravelly, another ftoney, another clayey, an- 
other fandy, &c; and the properties of each being effentially 
different, they will require management as effentially diffe- 
rent alfo. 

Accounts of every tranfaction, and a regular diary of oc- 
currences, expences, and profits, ought always to be kept by 
the Farmer, as well as the Tradefman. An account of the 

work 



[ vli ] 

work done by the men and horfes mould be duly and punc- 
tually kept ; by this means a man can afcertain the profit or 
lofs of each crop, and from thence form a true judgment of 
the whole. At the end of his account-book fhould be kept 
a number of pages for mifcellaneous obfervations and me- 
morandums of different kinds ; they would eafe his memory, 
and form a hiftory of his farm. Thefe are matters of impor- 
tance, and cannot be c. "pen fed with by thofe who would 
wifh to know the ftate of their farm, and how their affairs 
go on. 

What has been faid with regard to the Farmer will in 
general hold good to the Gardener, who may be called a 
Farmer on a fmaller fcale : His plants are infinitely more va- 
rious, and the attention required more minute : As the lofs 
of a day with a Farmer may be the lofs of a year, fo the mi'f- 
management or lofs of an hour may be the lofs of a crop in 
a garden. 

A Calendar may be ufeful to a Gardener, but to an intel- i 
ligent Farmer fuch a publication would produce very little .A f)f 1 
advantage, and to an ignorant one would be the occafion 
perhaps of innumerable miftakes and errors. 

To fpeak of the work we have undertaken with imparti- 
ality, we cannot fpeak as Authors but Compilers ; we have 
endeavoured to feleft the belt matter from the beft authori- 
ties, fuch as Miller, Ellis, Lisle, Mostimer.Tull, 
Mawe, the Museum Rusticum, Farmer's Maga- 
zine, Dictionarium Rusticum, Evelyn's Silva 
by Hunter, Compleat Body of Husbandry, &c. 

In our accounts of the Difeafes of Horfes, we have fol- 
lowed Bartlet, Gibson, Bracken, &c as we faw or 
judged moft proper. In treating of the Difeafes of Cows, 

we 



- 



[ vlli ] 

we have, ijtall we could, followed Williamson's pre- 
fcriptions in the Farmer's Magazine, and cannot help re- 
gretting, that he has given us no more of that knowledge 
which he ieems to have obtained from a long courfe of prac- 
tice and experience. 

Although Originality is not required in a work like this, 
yet fome abilities are neceffary to fele£t as well as arrange 
that matter which may be ufeful; to dwell on fuch fubje&s 
as are important, and to pafs over (lightly fuch as are of 
little confequence. 

"We have endeavoured all in our power to infert every 
thing that may tend to pleafe and to profit ; and the expref- 
fion of a man who well underflood human nature may, per- 
haps, not unaptly be applied to us. 

Omne tulit Pun&um, qui mifcuit Utile Dutci. 



Kiuravt'd i'or c/lc J-e/nrul JHctioruay in i/ie Farmers Jfaqazine. 



Teeth </>> ///< y/ A/i/ki ir<ic tfii- J/'/jir, /// 
-,L/<-> u/n /(■/■ tni/i/ic/icd . 



lppM-Jdi\' 



~Youruj T^cth 




Teeth <u> tkeyjifihecw /'// the different 
viif(\> unaer men2urn<cd> . 



Xi n.r./Iitv 



Ifi/lOUf 

Teeth 











Tx^T-E /v t //i,-,r //,'Ao'e of afforl'e /////a/* At//i , 

jyi.ThtliLirk ur derwled by a llacJcwJi Hash cm die lop of the Tc<:l l 






GENERAL DICTIONARY, &c. 



ABE 

A A, or a a, or ana, among phy- 
ficians, denote an equal weight, 
or quantity, of the feveral ingredients. 

ABELE-TREE, [Pcfu/us] a fpecies 
of Pctlar, having large leaves. It may 
be propagated either by layers, cut- 
tings, or fuckers j from which laft it 
moft readily fucceeds. The bed time 
for transplanting the fuckers into the 
nurfery is as foon as their leaves begin 
to decay, which commonly happens 
in October. The cuttings fhould be 
planted in February or March. 

The moft expeditious method is to 
procure truncheons from three to fe- 
ven or eigiit feet high ; make a hole 
eighteen or twenty inches deep with 
an iron crow, or bar, or a (harp flake: 
if the foil is not very mcitt fill the hole 
with water. By this fimple method 
they will in a few years become of a 
confiderable fize. 

There is fcarcely any tree which this 
climate produces from which fuch great 
advantages may be derived as from 
the different fpecies of the poplar. 
They will grow very fart and luxuri- 
antly in boggy foils where few other 
trees will thrive. Mr. Eoutcher, in his 
treatife of foreft trees, fays, they will 
make very quick advances in the hun- 
grier! devouring clays, iu burningfand 
or gravel, as well as in the moft fte- 
rile barren mofs. 

As thefe trees produce many fide 
branches, they fhould be cut away 
clofe to the trunk every third or fourth 
year till they are fifteen feet high. 

Their fhade is one of the moft 
friendly both to animals and vegeta- 
bles ; their leaves foonefi thicken the 
earth on which they grow, and pro- 
duce the beft effects in compoft foils 
of any leaves whatever ; and what is 
remarkable, cattle are very fond of the 
erafs which grows immediately under 



cc/$sn, 



ABO 

the dripping of thefe trees. The ufe 
of the wood is fo well known that it 
is needlefs to mention it. 

ABLACTATION, among the an- 
tient gardeners, the fame with what 
is now called marching, or grafting by 
approach. See Marching, &c. 

ABLAQUEATION, is, by remo- 
ving the earth, and by that means lay- 
ing bare the roots of fruit trees in win- 
ter, called by our modern gardeners 
" baring of trees." This practice is 
now juftfy laid afide on account of its 
being very hurtful to trees that are ex- 
pofed to high winds. 

ABORTION, among gardeners, fig- 
nifies fuch fruits as are produced too 
early, and never arrive at maturity. 

ABORTIVE CORN, a diltemper 
of corn mentioned by M. Tillet, in a C?7/i 
differtation which gained the prize at 
the academy of Bourdeaux. 

This diftemper, fays that ingenious 
naturalift, fhewsitfelf long before har- 
veft, when the ftalk is not above eigh- 
teen inches high ; and may be known 
by a deformity of the ftalk, the leaves, 
the ear, and even the grain. 

The ftem of abortive corn is gene- 
rally fhorter than that of other plants 
of the fame age; it is crooked, knot- 
ted, and ricketty; the leaves are com- 
monly of a bluifli green colour, curled 
up in various forms ; fometimes turned 
like wafer cakes, and often rolled in a 
fpjral form. The ears have very little 
of their natural form ; they are lean, 
withered, and fhew very imperfect ru- 
diments, either of the chafFor grain. 

All thefe fymptoms are however only 
to be found in plants that are in the 
height of the diftemper. The ftalks 
are often pretty ftrait, the leaves but 
little curled, and the chaff tolerably 
well formed: but inftead of er.clofing 
a ('mall embryo, white and foft at the 
A 2 fuminic. 



A C A 

fummit, it contains only a green ker- 
nel, terminating in a point, not unlike 
a young |xra when forming in its pud. 

Thefe abortive kernels have two or 
three points very vilible ; they are then 
falhioncd as if two or thtee kernels 
were jointd together at the hafe. W hen 
theft kernels are ripe, cr rat er when 
they are dried up, they grow black, 
ar ' fo greatly rcRmble the Ucd^ of 
— cockle, that hufbandmen, who are not 
acquainted \v,th t'lis diftemper, often 
confound abortive wheat with the feeds 
of that weed. 

Th s ci.ilemper M .Tillet fufpecls to 
be occasioned Ly infect ; f< r he per- 
ceived on the fickly plant-. fmJl drops 
of a very limpid liquor, which he j.i - 
ged to be extiavafated fap. 

ACACIA [Rebhta] Talfe Aca '. 
There are a great many different fpe- 
cies of the acacia ; Mr. Boutcher fays 
above thirty, though Mr. Miller enu- 
merated only twelve. Thefe gentle- 
men do not agree in the names c; the 
different fpecies 5 Mr. Boutcher treats 
of three only, the otherc being princi- 
pally intended for the ftove or the 
green- houfe. 

The common, or Virginian acacia, 
was at firft in great elleem ; but as 
the branches were frequently bioken 
by high winds, when they grew to any 
considerable fize, it fo<~>n got into dif- 
repute. Of late years however it. is 
again become fafhionable, fo that there 
are few gaidens withcut it \ for being 
protected in the plantation or wilder- 
nefs by other trees, this misfortune is 
avoided. '1 his is commonly called the 
Locuft-tree in America, from whence 
the, feeds are annually fent to England. 

The feeds mould be fown on a bed 
of light mellow earth in March, and 
in five or fix weeks the plants will ap- 
pear. Great care mult be taken to 
* keep them clean from weeds ; and if 
the weather be hot and cry, to water 
them in the evenings. They may re- 
main in this Situation till the next 
Jpririg, at which time they fhculd be 
removed into the nurfery to remain 
two years, when they will be fit to 
traiifplant where they are defigned to 
grow. If they are defired to be larger, 
they mould be removed again into the 
nurfery, and remain two years longer 
before they are taken up for good. 

Mr. Miller fays, this fort grows to 
2 yery large fize in America, where 



A C A 

the wood is much valued for its dura- 
tion ; nioft of the houfes which were 
built at Bollon in New England, upon 
the firft fettling of the Englifh, was 
with this timber, which ftill continues 
found. 

Acacia [Gleditjia] Honey Locufl, or 
three thorned A*.aaa. Mr. Boutcher calls 
it, the American Acacia, with triple 
thorns, commonly called the Locu't- 
tree in the Weft-Indies ; but I. : 
Ier fays, it is calied Locuil, or Henry 
Locult, to difiinguifh it from falfe A- 
cacia, which in America is tiequtntly 
called the LocuftJV^. 

Water Acacia. Both tryife forts 
are propagated by feeds fown or, a bed 
Of light but good earth early in the 
fpiin.5; but if atfiltcd by a moderate 
hot-bed they will come up fooner and 
ltronger. They fhculd be watered fre- 
quently (though gently) efpecially if 
the f, ring fiiouid p;ove dry ; and be 
inured ; open air by raifing 

As thefe plants continue 
growing late in the fummer, they 
fhould be protected from the autumnal 
frolts. 

In the following fpring, but not very 
early, they may be removed into the 
nurfery. Take up the plants very care- 
fully without bruifing their roots, and 
water them frequently in dry weather. 
They may remain in thefe beds two 
years, and then may be tranfplanted 
to the fpot where they are intendtd to 
remain ; but if they have another re- 
move in the nurfery, with plentiful 
waterings, as before, and remain two 
years longer, the trees will be much 
finer and more hardy. 

All the acacias delight in a deep, 
moift, rich foil, and may be much im- 
proved in their form by loofely tying 
the leading fhoot to a flake. They 
are cultivated by the Chinefe for thes 
fake of their flowers, with which they 
dye that beautiful yellow which we 
find bears wafhing in their filks and 
fluffs. 

Acacia, the infpiffated juice of the 
unripe fruit of a large prickly tree, 
called by Cafpar Bauhine, Acacia filii\ 
fcorpkidh IcgM' 

This juice is brought to us from E- 
gypt, in roui.difh maffes, wrapt up in 
thin bladders. It is outwardly of a 
deep brown colour, inclining to black: 
inwardly of a reddifh or yellowifh 
brown : of a firrq c&nfiftencc, but not 
very 



A C O 



A C O 






very cry. It foonfoftens in the mouth, 
and di (covers a rough, not difagreeable 
tafte, which is followed by a fweetilh 
relifli. This infphiated juice entirely 
diftolves in watery liquors; but is 
fenfibly acted on by rectified 
fpi:it. 

Acacia- is a mild aflringent medi- 
ci; ■■■. The Egyptians exhibit it in 
({Jitting f Mood, in the quantity of a 
dram, djflcyved in any convenient li- 
quor; and repeat this dofe occasion- 
ally: thty likewife employ it in colly- 
ria for ^lengthening the eyes, and in 
gargarifms for quinfeys. Among us, 
it is of little other ufe than as an in- 
gredient in mithiidate and theriaca, 
and is rarely met with in the (hops. 
\\ hat is ufualiy fold for the Egyptian 
acacia is the infpifiated juice of unripe 
flees : this is harder, heavier, of a dar- 
ker colour, and fomewhat (harper tafte, 
than the true fort. 

Acacia Gr: m a n i c a , the infpif- 
fated juice of wild fk.es, the fruit cf 
the common black thorn, [prunajy!- 
vejlria] which is ufualiy fold in the 
/hops for the true Egyptian acacia. It 
is i.qujiiy aftringent with the Egyp- 
tian fort, but has more of a fharp or 
tartifh tafte, without any thing o! the 
fweetifh relifh cf the other. 

ACAJOU, the Calhciv-nut-trcc, a fpe- 
cies of Anacardium. It is a native of 
Brazil, where the Indians make a kind 
of vinous intoxicating liquor of its 
fruit. The kernel may be eaten when 
j-oafted, but its hufk is extremely acri- 
monious. »/ka CoJ&H- . 

ACONITE. See Wolfsbane. 

Aconite, the Winter. .!>« Hel- 
lebore. 

ACOP-N, the fruit of the Oak. A- 
corns are faid to have been the primi- 
tive food of mankind. They are aftrin- 
gent, and therefore recommended in 
haemorrhages, alvine fluxes, and other 
preternatural or immoderate fecretions. 

At prefent, acorns are principally 
ufed in fattening hogs, for which they 
are very proper. Some care is, how- 
ever, ncceffary to be taken when hogs 
i'etd upon acorns, for otherwife they 
will be fubjeft to a diftemper, called 
the garget . . To prevent which, the 
beft way is to moiften fome peafe or 
beans with water, and fprinkie over 
it fome antimony pounded arid lifted ; 
if this be repealed every other day for 
a fortnight or three weeks, it will ef- 



fectually preferve them from the dif- 
ordci. Ur if the acorns be collected 
and prepared in the following manner, 
they may be given to hogs without 
any danger: — 

Dig a hole in the ground in a warm 
place, large enough to contain ftveral 
bulhels of acorns ; in this let rhe a- 
corns be put, and well moiflened with 
water, [mixed with a littJc urinej or 
in which a handful or two of common 
fait has been diflblved : [the acorns 
being too aftringent without thcie pre- 
caution;] in a few days they will be- 
gin to heat and fpire; obferve ihem 
therefore attentively, and when they 
have made a (hoot about three. inches 
long, take them out of the hole, and 
fpread them to dry on a barn floor, and 
in a day or two they will be lit to be 
given to the hogj. This matter muft, 
however, be managed with care and 
caution ; they muft not have too many 
given at a time ; at firft twice a day 
is often enough to feed them for a d;:y 
or two; aftei wards three times a day, 
Nor (hould they, "^lile they eat this 
food, be confined to a ltye, but fuf- 
fered to run at large ; for if their li- 
berty be too much abridged, they will 
never thrive well, or grow fat, on 
acorns. 

It is no uncommon thing in Hert- 
fordshire, with the management above 
directed, and the affiitance of a little 
wafh, and a few grains now and then, 
for a farmer to kill feveral hogs in a 
feafon, which (hall weigh from eight 
to ten fcore, andfometimes even more. 

Thefehogs make very good meat, but 
it is not fo fine as when the hogs are 
taken up, and four or five bufheis of 
peafe or barley meal given to each, to 
compleat their fattening before they 
are killed. 

Under the article Oak we (hail give 
a very particular account of its culti- 
vation; but as IVir. Miller advifes us 
to fow the acorns as foon as they are 
ripe, we now beg leave to exprefs cur 
diflent ; we are of opinion that the 
acorns (hould be kept till the follow- 
ing fpring, and that they will then 
beft fucceCd ; and in this opinion we 
are confirmed by Mr. Boutcher. 

The acorns (hould be gathered from 
the fineft maiden. thriving tree?, and 
fpread in an airy covered place, and 
frequently turned till they are quite 
dry; when they may be mixed with 
ferns 



A D N 



AFT 



fome dry fand and preferved till Febru- 
ary ; by which time many of them 
will jufl begin to fprout. We have 
known them thus preferved in a cafk 
with fome fine mould. 

ACRE, a quantity of land contain- 
ing four fquare roods, or one hundied 
and fixty fquare perches, poles, rods, 
or lugs: this is the Jiatute acre. Cuf- 
tomary acres differ in different counties* 

The Scots acre is greater than the 
Englifh acre in the proportion, as 
1369 to 1089. 

The Iiifh plantation acre is greater 
than the Englifh ftatute acre in the 
proportion as 19610 121. 

The French acre [Arpent] is very 
near equal to one acre and three quar- 
ters of a rood Englifh meafure. 

ACREME, in old law books, is 
ufed tor a portion of land containing 
ten acres. 

ACROSPIRE, the popular name for 
what hotanifts call the germ. Aao- 
fpired, in malt-making, is when the 
barley fhoots or fprouts cut at the 
blade end, as well as the root end ; 
which every one knows exhaufb the 
fubftance of the grain, and fpoils the 
future malr. 

ADAM's APPLE. See Orange. 

ADDER, the Viper. Adder-flung is 
faid of cattle when bitten by an adder, 
hedge-hog, &c. for which fome re- 
commend an ointment made of dra- 
gon's blood with a little barley-meal 
and the white of eggs. This is a 
ftrange application for the bite of a vi- 
per 5 the fat of the reptile rubbed upon 
the part bitten, is an infallible remedy 
in the human fpecies, as we know by 
experience, and many have experien- 
ced equally good efiefls from olive oil 
rubbed warm on the part. See Viper, 

ADDER's-TONGUE. \Oph\oglo(fum~\ 
a plant that grows in moilt meadows. 
The leaves are efleemed to be vulne- 
rary; the expreffed juice is given in- 
ternally for wounds, bruifes. Sec. and 
an oinrment is made of it with lard or 
whey butter for the fame purpofes ex- 
ternally. 

ADDERW/ORT. See Bistort. 

ADLF-EGGS, fuch as have not 
been impregnated by the cock. 

ADNATA, or Adn ascf.utia. A- 
rnong gardeners, terms ufed for fuch 
offsets, as, by a new germination un- 
der the earth, proceed from the lily, 
ria ciffus, hyacinth, Sec. and afterwards 
ei >w r o the recto. 



ADONIS, or Flos-Adonis, Phes- 
font's Eye, or Red Makht. There ar« 
three fpecies of this flower, — the com- 
mon adonis, or flos adonis, with fmall 
red flowers, of late called red moroc- 
co ; — the annual adonis with pale yel- 
low flowers; — and the perennial ado- 
nis with yellow flowers, by fome ti- 
tled fuinel-leav'd black hellebore. 

The firft and fecond are annuals. 
If the feeds are fown foon after they 
are ripe, the plants will come up the 
following fpiing. Tkefe plants will 
thrive belt in a light foil ; and as the 
feeds may be fown in any fituation the 
flowers may be had in fucceffion. 
They fhould not be tranfplanted unlefs 
they are very young. 

The third fort has a perennial root 
and an annual ftalk, and is likewife 
propagated by fowing the feeds foon 
after they are ripe in an eaftern fitua- 
tion. They will appear in the fpring, 
when they fhould be weeded and wa- 
tered. [In future we fhall not repeat 
thefe inftructions, becaufe every per- 
fon knows the utility of keeping plants 
free from weeds, and of watering them 
in a dry time.] The following au- 
tumn the plants mufl be carefully ta- 
ken up and planted in a nurfery bed, 
where they may remain two years to 
acquire ftrength, whin they may be 
tranfplanted into the pleafuie garden 
to remain for good. /"//'/ ' £ a 2 /// &}'t - 

ADRACANTH, the fame as Tra- 
gacanth, which fee. 

ADY, a fpecies of the palm-tree 
found in the ifland of St. Thomas ; the 
fruit of which is of the fize and fhape 
of a lemon, and contains an aromatic 
kernel, from which an oil is prepared, 
t(i3t anfwers the fame end as butter ia 
Europe. 

AFTERMATH, the grafs which 
fprings or grows up after mowing, or v 
the grafs cut after the corn. In the 
neighbourhood of London' the after- 
math when cut and made into hay is 
of confiderable value; but great caro' 
and nicety is required in making this 
hay fo as to make it fell well, for rea- 
fons fo obvious that we need not men- 
tion them. 

The defer the grafs is cut the finer 
and better will he the aftermath for * \ 
grazing ; for cattle will not eat the dead /{ '/l/is 
flubble which is left after mowing ; * 
but asthis cannot be diftinguifhed by 
the naked eye, being covered by the 
aftermath, 



A G A 



AGE 



aftermath, we mail give our readers 
the following new, but fimple method 
>o difcover whether the field was 
mowed clofeor not. The hand being 
open, apply the palm to the grafs, 
prefling it down gently till the flubble 
is felt ; this being repeared in feveral 
parts of the field will point out the 
length of the flubble ; for where it is 
very fhort the hand will of courfe al- 
moft touch the ground ; and we need 
net inform the grazier how much fu- 
perior fuch an aftermath is to thofe 
where the ftubble is feveral inches 
long : neat cattle not caring to bite 
below the points of the dead Hubble 
grafs. 

AFTER SWARMS, in the ma- 
nagement of bees, are thofe that leave 
the hive after the firft fwarm. Set 
Eke. 

AGARIC, \Agar\cu{\ a fungus 
growing on old larch trees. This fun- 
gus is an irregular fpongy fubftance, 
extremely light, and of an uniform 
fnowy whitenefs (except the cortical 
part, which is ufually taken off be- 
fore the agaric is brought into the 
/hops.) It cuts freely, without dif- 
covering any hardnefs or grittinefs, 
and readily crumbles betwixt the fin- 
gers into a powder. Agaric has no 
remarkable fmell : its tafte is at firft 
fweetifh, but on chewing for a little 
while, proves acrid, bitter and nau- 
feous. It was formerly in great efteem 
as a cathartic, but the prefent practice 
has almoft entirely rejected its ufe. It 
operates exceeding flowly, infomuch 
that fome have denied it to have any pur- 
gative virtue at all : givan in fubftance, 
it almoft always occafions a naufea, 
not unfrequently vomiting, and fome- 
times excefTive tormina of the bowels ; 
thefe effects are attributed to its light 
farinaceous matter adhering to the 
coats of the inteftines, and producing 
a conftant irritation. The beft pre- 
paration of agaric feems to be an ex- 
tract made with water acuated with 
fixt alcaline fait ; or with vinegar or 
wine : the firft is faid by Bolduc, and 
the two latter by Neuman, to prove 
effectual and fafe purgatives. Never- 
thelefs, this is at beft a precarious me- 
dicine, which we ftand in no manner 
of need of; bsnee the college have 
juftly rejected it from all the composi- 
tions which it formerly had a place in, 
except the mithridate and theriaca. 



AfiARlCUS pedis equ'tm fane, Tourrr, 
Female agaric, called, from its being 
very eafily inflammable, touchwood, 
or fpunk. This fungus is frequently 
met with, on different kinds of trees 
in England ; and has been fometimes 
brought into the fhops mixt with the 
true agaric of the larch: from this it 
is eafily diflinguifhable by its greater 
weight, dufky colour, and mucilagi- 
nous tsfte, void of bitternefs. The 
medullary part of this fungus, taken 
from the oak, beat foft, and applied 
externally, has been of late greatly ce- 
lebrated as a ftyptic, and faid to re- 
strain not only venal but arterial hae- 
morrhages, without the ufe of liga- 
tures. 

ACE ofaherfe. This is eafily known 
by his mouth till he comes eight, after 
which the ufual marks wear out. A 
horfe, like many other brute animals, 
has his teeth divided into three ranks, 
viz. his fore-teeth, which are flat and 
fmooth, his tufhes, and his back- 
teeth. His back-teeth, or jaw-teeth, 
are called his grinders, being thofe by 
which a horfe chews and grinds his 
provender, and are twenty four in 
number, twelve above, and twelve be- 
low : they are ftrong double teeth with 
fharp edges ; but when a horfe grows 
old, they wear much fmoother. 

The firft that grows are his foal 
teeth, which begin to appear a few 
months after he is foaled : they are 
twelve in number, fix above, and fix 
below; and are eafily diltinguifhed 
from the teeth that come afterwards, 
by their fmallnefs and whitenefs, not 
unlike the fore- teeth of a man. 

When a colt is about two years and 
a half old, he calls the four middlemoft 
of his foal teeth, viz. two above, and 
two below ; but fome do not caft any 
of their foal teeth till they are near 
three years old. The new teeth are 
eafily diftinguifhed from the foal teeth, 
being much Itronger, and always twice 
their fize, and are called the nippers 
or gatherers, being thofe by which a 
horfe nips off the grafs, when he is 
feeding abroad in the fields, or, in the 
houfe, gathers his hay from the rack. 
When a horfe has got thefe four teeth 
complete, he is reckoned three years 
old. 

When he is about three and a half, 

or in the fpring before he is four years 

old, he cafts out four mors of his foal 

teath, 



A G B 



AGE 



teeth, viz. two above, and two below, 
one on. each fide the nippers, or mid- 
dle teeth : fo that when you look into 
a horfe's mouth, and fee the two mid- 
dle teeth lull grown, and none of the 
foal teeth, except the common teeth 
remaining, you may conclude he is 
four that year, about April or May. 
Seme indetd are later coirs, but that 
mal luiie altera ion in the mouth. 

The tufhes appear near th? fame 
time with the four la.'t-mentioned 
teeth, fornetimes fooner than thefe, and 
fometimes not till after a horfe is full 
four, years old : they are curved l.ke 
the tufhes of other hearts, only in a 
young horfe they have a (harp edge all 
round the top, and on both fides, the 
infide being fomewhat grooved and 
flattilh, inclined to a hollownefs. 

When a horn's tufhes do not appear 
for fome time after the ioal teeth are 
caft out, and the new ones come in 
their room, it is generally owing to 
their foal teeth having been pulled out 
before their time, by the bleeders or 
other dealers in hones, to make a colt 
of three years old appear like one of 
four, and that he may be more fale- 
able; for when any of the foal teeth 
have been pulled out, the others foon 
come in their place; but the tufhes 
having none that go before them can 
never make their appearance t 11 their 
proper time, viz. when a horfe is a- 
bout four, or coming four ; and there- 
fore one of the furert marks to know a 
four-year old horfe, is by his tufhes, 
which are then very fmall, and fharp 
on the top and edges. 

When a horfe comes five, or rather 
in the fpring before he is five, the cor- 
ner teeth begin to appear, and at firfi. 
but jufl equal with the gums, being 
filled with fiefh in the middle. The 
tufhes are alfo by this time grown to 
a more riiftinc~r. fize, though not very 
large : they likewife continue rough 
and fharp on ths top and edges. But 
the Corner teeth are now mcfi to 
be remarked ; they differ from the 
middle teeth in being more fkfhy on 
the infide, and the gums generally look 
rawiih upon their firft fhooting out, 
whereas the others do not appear dif- 
colcured. The middle teeth arrive at 
their full growth in lsfs than three 
weeks, hut the corner teeth grow lei- 
furely, and are feldom much above 
the gums till a horfe is full five : they 



differ alfo from the other fore teeth In 
this, that they fomewhat refemble a 
/hell j and thence they are called the 
fnell teeth, becaufe they environ the 
fiefh in the midcit half way round ; 
and as they gvow, the fiefh within dif- 
appears, leavfng a diftindl hollownefs 
and opennefs on the infide. When a 
horfe is full five, thefe teeth are gene- 
rally about the tliickneis of a crown 
piece above the gums. From five to 
five and a half they will grow about a 
quarter of an inch high, or more; and 
when a horfe is fui: fix, they will be 
near half an inch, and in fome large 
hcrfes a full half inch above the gums. 

The corner teeth in the upper jaw 
fall out before thofe in the under, fo 
that the upper corner teeth are feen be- 
fore thofe below ; on the contrary, the 
tulhes in the under gums come out be- 
fore thofe in the upper. 

When a horfe is full fix years old, 
the hollownefs on the infide begins vi- 
fibly to fill up, and that which was at 
firft fiefhy grows into a brownifh fpot, 
not unlike the eye of a dried garden 
bean, and continues fo till he is feven; 
with this difference only, that the tooth 
is more filled up, and the mark, or 
fpot, becomes faint, and of a lighter 
colour. At eight the mark in mofl 
hoifes is quite worn out, though fome 
retain the veftiges of it a long time ; 
and thofe who have not had a good 
deal of experience, may fometimes be 
deceived by taking a horfe of nine or 
ten years old for one of eight. It is at 
tliis time only, when a horfe is part 
mark, that one can eafily err in know- 
ing the age of a horfe; for what prac- 
tices are ufed to make a very young 
horfe or colt appear older than he is, 
by pulling out the foal teeth before 
their time, may be difcovered by feel- 
ing along the edges where the tufhes 
grow, for they may be felt in the gums 
before the corner teeth are put forth ; 
whereas, if the corner teeth come in 
fome months before the tufhes rife in 
the gums, we may reafonably fufpect 
that the foal teeth have been pulled 
out at three years old. 

It will, perhaps, be ncedlefs to men- 
ticn the tricks that are ufed to make a 
falfe mark in a horfe's mouth, by hol- 
lowing the tooth with a graver, and 
burning a mark with a fmall hot iron; 
[called bifhoping] becaufe thofe who 
are arouainted with the true marks, 

will 



AGE 

will eafily difcover the cheat by the 
fize and colour of the teeth, by the 
[length] roundnefs, and bluntnefs of 
tufnes, hy tie colour of the falfe mark, 
which is generally blacker, and more 
imprelfed than the true mark, and by 
many other vifible tokens, which de- 
note the advance age of a horfe. 

Alter the horfe hai> paffed his eighth 
year, and fomuimes at feven, nothing 
certain can bj known by the mouth. 
It mult, however, be remembered, [that 
at about eleven or twelve he begins to 
wink or twinkle with his eyes, and] 
that fome horfes have but indifferent 
mouths when they are young, and foon 
lofe their mark - ; others have their 
mouths good for a long time, their 
teeth being white, even, and regular, 
till they are fixteen years old and up- 
wards, together with many other mai ks 
of frefhnefs and vigour; but wht-n a 
horfe comes to be very eld, it may 
be difcovered by feveral indications, 
the conftant attendants of a<e. viz. 
his gums wear away infenfibly, lea- 
ving his teeth long and naked at their 
roots : the teeth alfo grow yellow, and 
fometimes brownifh. The bars of the 
mouth, which in a young horfe are al- 
ways flefhy, and form fo many diltinci 
ridges, are, in an old horfe, lean, dry, 
and fmooth, with little or no lifing. 
Ths eye-pits in a young horfe (except 
thofe come of old ftallions) are gene- 
rally filled up with flefh, look plump 
and fmooth ; whereas, in an old horfe, 
they are funk and hollow, and make 
him look ghaftly, and with a melan- 
choly afpecl. There are alfo other 
marks which difcover a horfe to be 
very old, viz. grey horfes turn white, 
and many of them all over flea-bitten, 
except about their joints. This, how- 
ever, happens fometimes later, and 
fometimes fooner, according to the va- 
riety of colour and conltitution. Black 
horfes are apt to grow grey over their 
eye-brows, and very often over a good 
part of their face, efpecially thofe who 
have a ftar or blaze fringed round with 
grey when they are young. All horfes, 
when very old, link more or lefs in 
their backs, and fome horfes, that are 
naturally long-backed, grow fo hollow 
with age, that it is fcarce pcfiibie to 
fit them with a faddle. Of this kind 
are feveral Spaniih and Barbary horfes, 
and many of the Danifh and Flanders 
breed. Their joints alfo grow fo ftiff 



AGE 

with old age, and their knees and 
hocks bendfo, that they are apt to trip 
and ftumble upon the lead delcent, 
though the way be Imooth, and no 
ways rugged. Alter which they can 
be of little ufe to the owner. Gib/on 
on Horfes, 

[To oblige our readers, we have gi- 
ven a copper-plate engraving of a horfe's 
teeth as they appear at his different 
ages.] 

Age of neat cattle, viz the Ox, Cow, 
and Bull. The age of thefe animals is 
thus knowr>"by the teeth. At the end 
of ten months they filed their firfl 
fore-teeth, which are replaced by o- 
thers, larger, but not fo white ; and 
in three years all the incifive teeth are 
renewed. Thefe teeth are at firft equal, 
long, and pretty white; but as the 
creatures advance in years, they wear, 
become unequal, and black. The age 
of the creature may alfo be eafily known 
by counting three years from the point . 
of the horn, and one for each of the 
joints or rings on the horn. Buffon. 

Age of Sheep. Thefe animals in their 
fecond year have two broad teeth ; in 
their third year they have four broad 
teeth before; in their fourth year fix 
broad teeth, and in their filth year 
e ; ght btoad teeth. After which none 
can tell how old a fheep is while all 
the teeth remain, except by their being 
worn down. Ellis on Sheep. 

At the end of one year, rams, fhecp, 
and wethers, lofe the two fore teeth 
of the lower jaw; and they are known 
to want the incifive teeth in the upper 
jaw. At eighteen months the two 
teeth joining to the former, alfo fall 
out ; and at three v ,ears, being all re- 
placed, they are even and pretty white. 
But as the creature advances in age, 
they become loofe, blunt, and after- 
wards black. 7 he age of the ram, and 
all horned fheep, may alfo be known 
by their horns, which fhew tliemfelves 
in their very firlt year, and often at 
the birth, and continue to grow a ring 
annually to the Lift period of the crea- 
ture's life. Buffons Hifloire Naturelk. 

Ace of Goats. 1 he age of goats is 
known by the fame tokens as thofe of 
the fheep, viz. by their teeth, and the 
annual rings on their horns. Buffon. 

Age of a Tiee, according to Mr. E- 

velyn, may be known by the trunk, 

which being cut tranfverfely, plain, and 

fmooth, fhevvs it by the uumber of 

B «#n- 



A G I 



A G R 



concentric circles or rings in the wood. 
Their linga arriargeit and rnofi diltindt 
in the lane quick-gicwing trees, and 
are .ikewiie n.ore fo o- the foutn than 
©n the north f.de of the tree. 

Tu, a ia a popular notion, and much 
infilled on by caipenteis. &-c. and that 
a tree gains a new one every year. 
Thefe rings were counted on feme oak 
trees in t he New Foreil (where the 
trees are teckoned to be feverai hun- 
dred year* old) and from three to four 
hundred have been dHinguifhed. The 
fir-tree isfaic to have juft lb many rows 
of boughs about it a- ic ia years growth; 
and it has Seen o' fervtd, that there is 
juft one ring lel» imniediately above 
the row of boughs than imniediately 
below. After all, it is more a matter 
01 curiofity than ufe, and cannot be 
often known with certainty, as the per- 
fon who plants timber trees rarely chu- 
fes to have them cut down again. 

AFRICAN or FRENCH MARI- 
GOLD, [Tagetes] of which there are 
feverai fpeaies, but are all too well 
known to require any defcription. 
They are fo fubjedt to vary and dege- 
nerate that the feed n.uft be collected 
from the hneft flowers, and exchanged 
every other year for feed that was faved 
on a different and diflant foil. 

The feeds mult be fown upon a mo- 
derate hot-bed, or in a very warm fitu- 
ation ; taking care in the former cafe 
not to draw the plants too much, and 
to give them frefh air, or they will not 
be handfome. When they are about 
three inches high they may he tranf- 
p anted into another moderate hot-bed, 
or very warm border arched over with 
hoops covered with mats, remember- 
ing to inure the plants to bear the frefh 
air as they acquire ltrength. [I his, 
in fhoi t, mould always be attended to 
when plants are railed upon hot-beds, 
and aiterwards tranfplanted into the 
parterre, &c. to remain.] About the 
end of May they may be taken up with 
a ball of earth at the roots, and plant- 
ed in the bordtrs or flower pots. 
AGIST, Agistment, Agist- 
5^ are, or Agistation, in law, the 
^ taking in other people's cattle to graze 
^ at fo much per week. The term is 
XV peculiarly ufed for the taking in cattle 
^ , to be fed in the King's fore.ls, as well 
~ as for the profits thence arifing. 
, AGISTOR, or Agistatcr, an of- 

ficer belonging to the loreib who has 



the cars of the cattle taken in to b« 
gr..zed, and levies the monies due on 
that account. There are four fuch a- 
giitors in each foreil, all created by 
letters patent, and commonly called 
gueft takers, or gilt takers. 

AGRARIAN, in a generd fenfe, 
belonging to or connecltd with lands. 

Agrarian Laws, among the Ro- 
mans, thefe laws relating to the divi- 
fion and di(*i ibution of lands, oi which 
there were a great number ; but that 
called the agrarian iavo, by way of e- 
minence, was published by Spurius 
Caffius about the year of Rome 268, 
for dividing the conquered lands e- 
qually among all the citizens, and li- 
miting the number of acres which 
each citizen might enjoy. 

AGRARIUM, the fame ttAg\ftrr.ent. 

AGRICUL. URE, in a general 
fenfe, fignifies the art of rendering the 
earth fertile by tillage and culture ; in 
which fenfe it compiehends gardening 
as well as hufbandry. See Garden- 
ing and Husbandry. In a more 
particular and retrained fenfe it is ufed- 
for the management of arable lands 
by ploughing, fallowing, manuring, 
ice See the articles Ploughing, &c. 
Agriculture is a no lefs honourable than 
profitable art, held in the higheft ef- 
teem among the antients, and in ge- 
neral equally valued by the moderns. 
The Eg>ptians afcribed the invention 
to Oliris, the Greeks to Ceres and her 
fon Tiiprolemus, and the Italians to 
Saturn or Janus. But the Jews, with 
more reafon, afcribe this honour to 
Noah, who immediately after the flood 
let about tilling the ground and plant- 
ing vineyards. 

Agriculture has been the delight of 
the greateft men. We are told that 
Cyrus the younger planted and culti- 
vated his garden in a great meafure 
with his own hands; and it is well 
known that the Romans took many of 
their belt generals from the plough. 

But not to detain the reader with 
any farther encomium on this uni- 
verfally admired art, we refer him to 
an excellent and well-written Differ- 
taticn on this fubjeft in the Furmt^% 
M:tga%ive y No. I. and (hall here only 
fubjoin its principal branches, which 
will be treated ot under their refpec- 
ti-ve heads. 

aiture, then, may be fubdi- 
vided iw to the proper management, 

1. Of 



AIR 



A I K 



i. Of all kinds of arable lands, v. hi- 
ther ot a clayey, Candy, foamy, or other 
foil. See the articles Clay Lakbs, 
San ny Lan ds, &c. 

2. Oi lands employed in pa ft u rage, 
whether the; be meadow lands, niar- 
ihy lands, &c, See Meadow, Sec. 

3. Ot wood-lands, or thofe laid out 
in nurfei ies ; plantations, tortfts, woods, 
&c. See the article Wood, &c. 

AGRIMONY, [Agnmonia] is a 
troublefome plant enough in pafture 
grounds, but fometimes cultivated in 
gardens. There arefeveral fpecies, all 
which are hardy perennial planrs, and 
will thiive in almolt an)' foil or filia- 
tion. They are belt propagated by 
parting their roots in autumn < hen 
their leaves begin to decay, though 
they may be propagated by fowmg 
their feed <it the Lmt t.me. 

The leaver of agrimony are ufed in 
medicine. They have an herbaceous 
and lomewhat aciid, roughifh tafte, 
accompanied with an aromatic riavour. 

Agrimony is aperient, detergent, and 
ftrengthens the tone of the vifceia ; 
hence it proves fervic=able in fcorbu- 
tic diforders, in debility and laxity of 
the interlines, Sec. Digefted in whey 
it affords an ufeful diet- drink (01 the 
i'pring feafon, not ungrateful to the 
palate or itomach. 

Hemp Agrimony, Water Agrimony, 
er Water Hemp, [Eupatorium Cannabi- 
n;<m~] has an acrid fmell and a very 
bitter tafte, with a confideiable fliare 
of pungency. The leaves are greatly 
recommended for Strengthening the 
tone of the vifcera, and as an aperi.nr ; 
and faid to have excellent effects in the 
dropfy jaundice, cachexies, and fcor- 
butic diforders. Boerhaave informs 
us. that this is the conftant medicine 
of the turf-diggers in Holland againft 
rc-urvits, foul ulcers, and fwellings in 
the feet, which the natives are fubje& 
to. The root of this plant is faid to 
eperate as a ftrong cathartic. 

AGUE TREE. See Sassafras. 

AIL, Ane, or Awn e, a long nee- 
dle-like beard, which fiands out from 
the hull or hufk of a grain of corn. 

AIR, that fine, than, elaftic fluid, 
^n which we breathe, and which fur- 
Tounds the earth to a great height. Jt 
will be extremely difficult for us to bo 
fuffkiently explicit on this article with- 
cut being too prolix. 

The air, bef.des its vartejii other 



ufes, is a principal caufe of the vege- 
tation of plants, an inftance of which 
we have from Mr. Ray. in the Philo- 
fophical Tranfaft'ons, ot Kttuce-feed, 
that was fown in the glofs receiver of 
of the air-pump which was exbautted 
and cleared from all ait, which grew 
not at all in eight days time ; whereas 
fome of the fame feed that ^as fown 
at the fame time in the open air. was 
rifen to the height of an inch and an 
half in that time ; but the air being 
let into the exhaufted receiver, the feed 
grew up to the height of two or three 
inches in-the fpa^e of one w ck. 

Another inftance ot the ufelu'nefs 
of tfie air in vegetation, is the f<.dum, 
which will pLfh out roots without 
earth and water, and live for feveral 
months : and fome fotts of aloes, if 
hung up in a room entiiely fecuitd 
from fro/ts, will remain i-tih for fome 
year.-., though they will fenfibly lofe in 
their weight. Air is capable q) pene- 
trating the porous and fpon'gy parts of 
plants, and being there contracted, of 
dilating itfelf again. 

The air operates alfo within the 
bowels of the earth, and, by its f;ib- 
tilty perfpiring through the pore;, af- 
files in the rarefaction of the crudities 
of the earth, and in the difpeiling all 
fuperfhious moilture, entering into the 
very po' es and veins of the trees, plants, 
herbs, &c. carrying along with, it thoie 
falts contained either in itfelf, or lodged 
in the earth : which falts or juices are 
altered according to the feerai figures 
or dimenfions of the different drainers 
or veffels of thofe feveral plants which 
grow upon the fame fpot ol earth, 
which is fo impregnated with thefe 
falts : and hence thofe varieties in 
tafte and fmell proceed, notwithitand- 
ing they all receive their nourifhment 
from the fame ftock that is lodged in 
the earth. 

The air alfo affeifls the branches, 
leaves, and flowers of trees, plants, 
and herbs, entering and perfpiring 
through them, and even through the 
bark and body of trees : and by ttie 
fame kind of fubtiity it does, by its 
refreshing breezes, moderate the in- 
tenfen'Ts of the fun-be^ms, cooling, 
chearing, blowing, opening, and ex- 
tending all the offspring of nature. 
The air fixe. 5 and iniin-'a es irs aer-eal 
fubifance into the liquid fa-^ o f vegs- 
: aadj as all the agitations in 
E i nature 



A I R 

ijature proceed from the contrariety of 
parts inhabiting together, this aereal 
and I. quid fiibftance* being mixed, 
eaufe rhe agitation and motion in ve- 
getables, or, more properly, fet it all 
into a ferment, whether it be in the 
roots, or in the Hem j and it rifes by 
co-operation of the fun, which is the 
third agent in vegetation, up to the 
top of a tree, &c. as liquids rife by file 
to the top of the containing veffel. 

The air, we find, produces a vibra- 
tory motion in ftveral bodies ; and, 
particularly in plants, the air-veffels 
thereof perform the office of lungs : for 
the air contained in them, fometimes 
contracting, and fometimes expanding, 
according as the heat is increafed or 
diminifhid, preffes the vtffcls, and 
eafes them again by turns ; and thus 
promotes a circulation of their juices, 
which could fcarce otherwife be ef- 
fected. 

Air, fays the learned Dr. Hales, is a 
fine elaftic fluid, with particles of very 
different natures floating in it, where- 
by it is admirably fitted by the great 
author of nature, to be the breath or 
life of vegetables as well as animals, 
withcur which they can no more live 
nor thiive than animals can. As a 
proof of the great quantities of air in 
vegetables, he refers to the third chap- 
ter of his excellent Treatife of Vege- 
table Statics, where, he fays, in the 
experiments on vines, the great quan- 
tity of air was vifible, which was 
continually afcending through the fap 
in the tubes 5 which manifeltly fhews 
what plenty of it is taken in by vegeta- 
bles, and is perlpired off with the fap 
through the leaves. 

He adds fev.rai experiments, with 
an api'le-branch, apricot-branch, birch, 
and other plants, to prove the fame 
thing. 

And Dr. Grew has obferved, that 
the pores are fo lar*e in the trunks of 
fome plants, as in the better fort of 
thick walking canes, that they are vi- 
fible to a good eye without a glafs ; 
but. with a glafs, the cane feems as if 
ftuck at top full of holes with great 
pins, fo large as very well to refemble 
th? pores of the fkin in the ends of the 
fingers, and ball of the hand. 

In the leaves ot pines, they likewife, 
through a glafs, make a very elegant 
/hew, (landing almoft exactly in rank 
aad file thro' the length of the leaves. 



A I R 

Whence it may be thought probable 
that the air treely er.ters plants, not 
only with the principal food or nou- 
rishment by the roots, but alfo through 
the fuitace of their trunks and leaves, 
efpecially at night, when they a e chan- 
ged from a perfpiiing to a ftrcngly 
imbibing ftate. 

Dr. Hales likewife tells us, that, in 
all thofe experiments that lie tried to 
this purpofe, he found that the air 
entered very flowly :.t tiie bark of young 
fhoots and branc'ie-, hut much more 
freely through old bark ; and that in 
different kinds of trees it had different 
degrees of more or lefs free entrance. 

And likewife, that there is fome air 
both in an elaftic and unelaftic (late, 
mixed with the earth (which may well 
enter the roots with the ncurifhment) 
he found by feveral experiments, which 
he gives in the above- mentioned treatife. 

The excellent Mr. Eoyle, in making 
many exptiiments on the air, among 
other difcoveries, fcund, that a good 
quantity of air was produceable from 
vegetables, by putting grapes, plums, 
goofebenies, peafe, and ftvetal ether 
forts of fruits and grain, into exh: j .uft- 
ed and unexhaufted receivers, where 
they continued for feveral days emit- 
ting great quantities of air. 

This put the curious Dr. Kales upon 
further refeaiches to find out whit pro- 
portion of air he could obtain cut of 
the vegetables in which it was lodged 
and incorporated ; and, from a vaft 
variety of curious and accurate expe- 
riments, concludes, that air abounds 
in vegetable fubflances, and bears a 
confiderable part in them : and, that 
if all parts of matter were only en- 
dowed with a ftrongly attracting pow- 
er, all nature would then become one 
unaclive cohering lump. 

Wherefore it was abfclutely necef- 
fary, in order to the actuating this vaft 
mafs of attracting matter, that there 
fhoulcl be every where mixed with it a 
due proportion of (Vongly repelling 
elaftic particles, which might enliven 
the whole mafs, by the incelTanr a&ion 
between them and the attracting par- 
ticles. 

And fince thefe elaftic particles are 
continually in great abundance reduced 
by the power cf the ftrong attraclcrs, 
from an elaftic to a fixed (fate, it was 
therefore necefTary, that thefe particles 
fhould bs endued with a property of 
refuming 



AIR 

refuming their elafHc ftate, whenever 
they were difengaged tiom that mafs 
in which they were fixed, that thereby 
this beautiful frame oi things might 
be maintained in a continual tound of 
the production and diffolution of ve- 
getable, as well as animal bodies. 

The air is very inllrumental in the 
production and growth of vegetables, 
both by invigorating their feveral jui- 
eev while in an eiaftic active ftate, and 
aifo by greatly contributing in a fixed 
fta:e tp the union and firm connection 
of the feveral conitituent parts of thofe 
bodies, viz. their water, fire, fait, and 
earth. 

To conclude, by reafon of thofe pro- 
perties of the air before-mentioned, it 
is very ferviceable to vegetables, in that 
it collects up and breaks open the 
clouds, thofe treafuies ot rain, which 
nourifhes the vegetable tribe. 

Theairal'o helps to waft ordifperfe 
thofe foggy humid vapours which arife 
from the foil, and would otherwife 
ftagnate, and poifon the whole face of 
the eaith. 

The air, by the affiftance of the fun, 
affumes and fublimates thofe vapours 
into the upper regions ; and thefe fog- 
gy humid vapours are, by this fubli- 
mation, and t'>e coercive power of the 
air and fun rarefied, And made again 
u'efL-'l in vegetation. 

On the contrary, the air, which in 
{o many ways is fubfervient to vegeta- 
bles, is aifo, upon fome accounts, in- 
jurious and pernicious to them ; not 
only to the ligneou>, herbaceous, and 
flowery parts above, but aifo to the 
roots and fibres below the earth : for 
as the air penetrates deep into the foil, 
it is naural to conclude, that a dry, 
fcorchii g air, may be very prejudicial 
to the tender fibre) of new planted ve- 
getables. 

Fixed Air, a fpecies of factitious 
air, produced from alkaline fubftances 
by friutien in acids, or by calcination. 

Fixed air has been app ied With fuc- 
cefs in the cure of feveral difordeis ; 
but for particulars we muft refer to the 
feveial treatifes »n the nature and pro- 
perties of air by the learned Br. I'ri'eft- 
ley. In the Doctor's " Experiments on 
different kinds of air," wefirftmetwith 
the method of restoring or fweetening 
air rendered noxious in confequerce of 
a perfon repeatedly breathing the fame 
portion, or of its beir^ confumed by 



A L D 

the flame of a candle, or by putrefying 
fubftances. 

Our readers will be agreeably fur- 
prized when they are informed that 
this noxious quality may be corrected, 
and the air reftored to a pure ffate fit 
for refpiration by only putting into it 
fome fprigs of any vegetable in a 
growing ftate. The Doctor tried mint, 
groundfel, andfpinach; the htter be- 
ing a quick growing plant, reftored 
thefalubrity ot the air in a few days. 

Thus the continual depravation of 
the air arifing from various caufes is 
corre^ed in a great meafure by the ve- 
getable part of the creation. 

Air-Vessels, in plants, certain 
veffels, or ducts, for imbibing and 
conveying air to the feveral parts of a 
plant. 

ALBUMEN, the white of an egg. 

ALCALI. See Alkali. 

ALDER-TREE, [Alma] of which 
there are two fpecies, the common, or 
round leaved alder, — and the lona-lea-ved 
alder ; this fecond fort is very common 
in Auftria and Hungary. 

Thefe trees delight in very wet bog- 
gy land, but fhould not be planted in 
dry ground becaufe they impoverish it 
fo much. Nor do they anfwer our ex- 
pectations fo much as we could wifh 
when they are planted in marfhes. 

If planted by the fides of brooks 
they will thrive exceedingly, and may 
be cut for poles every fifth or fixth 
year ; though they will pay very well 
to itand feveral years longer, provided 
they continue to grow pretty fait. In 
this fituation alder makes an excellent 
fence againft rivers and ftreams, and 
preferves the banks from being under- 
mined or wafhed awav by the water, 
becaufe it is always fendingout fuel- crs. 

Aldgr has one peculiar and beneficial 
property, no beaft will crop it, which 
faves the expence of fencing it from 
cattle. 

It may be propagated either by lay- 
ers, or cuttings of three or four years 
old, and three feet long. 

The be(t time for this is in Febru- 
ary, erthe beginning of March; thefe 
fliould be Sharpened at one end, and 
the ground loofened with an inl* c- 
ment before they are thru ft into it ; 
left, by the ftiffhefs of the foil, the 
bark fhould be torn off, which may 
occafion their mifcarriage, Thtfe trun- 
cheons fhouid be tiwuft into the earth 

two 



ALE 

tfwo feet at leaft, to prevent their be- 
ing blown out of the ground by ftrong 
winds, after they have made flout 
ihoots. The plantations fhould be 
cleared from all fuch weeds as grow 
tall, othcrwife they will ovi rbear the 
young fhoots ; but when they have made 
good heads, they will keep down the 
vveeds, and will tequhe no farthercare. 

If you raife them by laying down the 
branches, it mult be performed in Oc • 
tober ; and by the October following, 
they will have taken root fufficient to 
be tranfplanted out ; which mull be 
done by digging a hole, and loofening 
the earth in the place where each plant 
is to ftand, planting the young trees 
at lealt a foot and a half deep, cutting 
off the top to about nine inches above 
the furface, which will occafion them 
to fhoot out many branches. 

The diflance thefe trees fliould be 
placed, if defigned for a coppice, is 
fix feet fquare ; and if thefmall lateral 
fiioots are taken off in the fpring, it 
will very much flrengthen your up- 
right poles, provided you leave a few 
fmall fhoots at diftances upon the body 
thereof, to detain the top for the in- 
creafe of its bulk. 

This wood is in great requeft with 
the turners, heel-makers, &c. and will 
endure a long time under ground, or 
to be laid in water. 

Mr. Boutcher has an utter diflike to 
this tree; he fays, " that fundry aqua- 
tics, of greater beauty and value, wiil 
grow abundantly fafter in the fame fi- 
xations they affett." 

Black, or Bary. bearing Alder, [Al- 
r.us nigral is common in moft woods 
in divers parts of England. The in- 
ternal bark of the trunk, or root of 
the tree, given to the quantity of a 
dram, purees violently, occafioning 
gripes, naufea, and vomiting. Thefe 
may be in good meafure prevented by 
the addition of aromatics; but as we 
have plenty of fafer and ief> precarious 
purgatives, practitioners have defer- 
vedly rejected this. 

Ai.der-Trbe, [^/ras "vulgaris] irw 
medicine. The leaves and bark have 
a bitter irvptic difagreeable taile. The 
bark is recommended by feme in in- 
termittent fevjers; and a decoction of 
j; in gargarifkn3 for inflammations cf 
the tonfils. 

ALE, [Gr/vW/:.)] a well-known li- 
quor that needs no defcription. See 
Beep., an d D k e v. i .n g . 



A L K 

It may be here obferved, that thofe 
who drink wine are not fo fuhjeft ;o 
coughs, diltempers of pie breait, and 
dropfies, as they who drink ale ; but 
then they are more fubjeft to the gra- 
vel and arthritic complaints. Lr. Cy- 
prianus, the famous .yt'ioromift. ob- 
served, thai ot vafl numbers on wlvm 
he peifoimed the operation, he found 
net one beer-feller troubled will) the 
ftone, though he met with a great many 
1'iruners among his patients. 

At e-Berry, the popular name for 
ale that is boiled with bread and mace, 
fweetened, Arair.ed, and drank hot. 
1 his is a comfortable drink foi horfes, 
cattle, and ilieep. 

Meditated Ales, thofe wherein me- 
dicinal herbs have been iniufe '. fuch 
as Butler's ale, Gill ale, &c. we mall 
give one or two of thofe that are well 
lecommended. 

Bitter Ale. Take of 
Gentian root, 

Lemon peel, frefh, each 4 ounces; 
Long pepper, one ounce ; 
Ale, one gallon ; 
Let them fteep together without heat. 

This is an agreeable bitter ftoma- 
chic ale, much fuperior to the common 
purls, or any of the compofitions of 
this kind to be met in the extempora- 
neous recipe writers. 

Scorbutic Ale. Take of 

Horfe-radifh root, hefh 1 pound; 
Sharp-puinttd dock-ioots, half a 

pound ; 
Cantlla alba, two ounces ; 
Buckbean leaves, frefh, 8 ounces, 

cr dried, three- ounces ; 
New fmall ale, ten gallons. 

In fcorbutic diforders, and impuri- 
ties of the blood and juices, this li- 
quor ufed as common drink generally 
does good fervice. Ail the ingredients 
are very effectual for the intention, 
and wellfuited to the form. 

ALECOST. See Costmary. 

ALEHOOF. See Groundivy. 

ALEXANDERS, Mfanders, [Smyr- 
nfam\ of which there are five fpecies, 
hut they are now feldom planted in 
gardens, except for variety; celery, 
which is fo much fuperior, being i:kd 
in their ftead. 

They may he propagated by fovving 
their feeas upon an open fpot of ground 
as foon as they are ripe. 
. Alexanders, Alifandcrt, \lYppo- 
felimttn] formerly much ufed in medi- 
cine, is new difregarded. 



A L K 

ALKANET, [Anchufa] True Ma- 
ne:. It is a rough, hairy plant, and 
bears great refemblance in its leaves 
and branches to the greater garden bu- 
glofs. It grows naturally in the Le- 
vant ; but is equally hardy with the 
garden buglofs, and may be cultivated 
in the fame manner. SeeBuGLoss. 

A l k a n e t , \Ar.chu fa 1 Radix] Alka- 
net Root, the cortical part of which is 
ef a dufky red, but imparts an elegant 
deep red to oils, wax, and all undtu- 
ous fubftances, but not to watery li- 
quors. 

It is fometimes cultivated in our 
gardens ; but the greateft quantities 
are raifed in Germany and France, 
particularly about Mcntpeiier, from 
whence the dried roots are ufually im- 
ported to us. 

The alkanet root produced in Eng- 
land is much inferior in colour to that 
brought from abroad. It ha; little or 
no fmell : when recent, it has a bit- 
terifh aftringent tafte, but dried, fcarce 
any. As to its virtues, the prefent 
piadtice expefts net any from it. Its 
chief ufeis for colouringoils, unguents, 
andplafteis. As the colour is confi- 
ned to the cortical part, the fmallelt 
roots mould be rnade choice of, thefe 
containing propoi tionably more bark 
than the larger. 

ALKALI, an appellation given to 
all fubftances which excite a fermen- 
tation when mixed with acids. 

Originally, the term alkali fignified 
only the fa.t extracted from the afh.es 
«f kali or glafs-wort; afterwards it 
was ufed for the falts of all plants ex- 
tracted in the fame manner; and as 
thefe were obferved to ferment with 
acids, the term was extended fo as to 
comprehend all fubltances which had 
this effect. Alkalies, or Alkaline fub- 
ftances, are therefore of various and 
widely different kinds. Some are ear- 
thy, as quick lime, marble, and fealed 
earths j others metalline, as gold, fil- 
ver, tin, &c. others of animal origin, 
as fhells, bezoars, the calculus huma- 
nus, &c. andlaftly, all the ftrong fal- 
marine plants, as coral. 

Alkalies are either fixed, as fait of 
tartar; or volatile, as fpirit of harfhom, 
fal volatile, &-c. 

It mult be obferved, that no vegeta- 
bles can afterd an alkaline fait without 
the afticn of fire ; on the contrary, if 
fuffered to dry or rot fpontaneouily, 



A L K 

they vanifh or change their form with- 
out leaving the leaft fixed alkali behind, 
Ot the fever al kinds of fixed alkalies, 
the moft common is that called pot- 
afh. See Pot-ash. 

Fixed Alkaline Salts, [SjIis 
Alkaiini Fixi] in medicine, are prepa- 
red from tartar, and wormwood. 
Salt of Worm wood. 
[Sal Abfinthii] 
Ed'mb. 
Let any quantity of wormwood, either 
frefh gathered or moderately dried, 
be put into an iron pan, and, with 
a gentle fire, reduced into white allies. 
Boil tiiefe with a fufheient quantity 
cf fpring water, filter the liquor, and 
evaporate it till a dry fait is left be- 
hind : this proves of a brown colour; 
by repeated folution, filtration, and 
infpiiTation, it becomes at length 
pure and white. 

Loud. 
Let the afhes of wormwood [which 
the fheps are ufually fupplied with 
from the country] be put into an iron 
pot, or any other convenient veffel ; 
and kept red hot over the fireforfomc 
hours, often ftirt ing them, that what 
oily matter remains may be burnt 
out. Then boil the afhes in water, 
filter the ley thro' paper, and eva- 
porate it till a dry fait remains ; 
which is to be kept in a veifel clofe 
flopt. 

After the fame manner a fixt alca- 
line fait may be prepared Irom all 
thefe vegetables which yield this 
kind of fait [L] as bean fialks^ 
broom, &c. [£.] 

Thefe falts are obtained to greater 
advantage from dry plants than ftom 
green ones ; they mull not however 
be too dry, or too ok! ; for in fvjch 
cafe, they afford but a fmall quantity 
of fait. The fire fhould be fo managed, 
as that the fubjecT: may burn freely, 
yet not burft into violent fiame : this 
laft circumftance would greatly leifen 
the yield of the fait ; and a very clofe 
fmothering heat would have this effeft 
in a greater degree ; hence the afhes 
of charcoal fcarce yield any fait, whilft 
the wood it was made from, if burnt; 
at fi ft in the open air, affords a large 
quantity. 

If the afhes are not calcined after 
the burning, a confiderable portion of 
the oil of the fubje<5t remains in them 
unconfumed : and hsmce the fait turns 

out 1 



A L K 

out impure, of a brown colour, and 
fomewhat faponaceous. Tachenius, 
Boerhaave, and others, have entertain- 
ed a very high opinion of thefe oily 
falts, and endeavour as much as pof- 
ftble to retain the oil in them. They 
are neverthelefs liable to a great in- 
convenience, uncertainty in point of 
ftrength, and without promising any 
advantage to counterbalance it : if the 
common alcalies are required to be 
made milder and lefs acri.nonious, 
(which is the only point aimed at in 
the making of thefe medicated falts as 
they are called) they may be occ.ifion- 
ally rendered fo by fuitable additions. 
Salt of Tartar. 
[SalTaitari] 
Land. 
Let any kind of tartar be wrapt up in 
ftrong brown paper, fir ft made wet, 
or included in a proper veffel, and 
expofed to the fire, that its oil may 
be burnt out : then boil it in water, 
and exficcate into a fait as before. 
Edinh. 
Wrap up any quantity of white tartar 
in wetted paper, and calcine it in a 
reverberatory furnace till it becomes 
exceedingly white. Then diffoive 
it in warm water, filter the folu- 
tion, and evaporate it in a clean 
iron veffel, till a fait is left behind, 
perfectly dry, and white as fnow ; 
oi viving towards the end of the o- 
peration to keep the matter con- 
tinually ftirring with an iion ladle, 
to prevent its flicking to the bottom 
of the veffel. 

If a ftronger fait of tartar is required, 
let the white fait be fufed in a cru- 
cible, with the moil intenfe degree 
of heat, and r< vei berated for fome 
hours, till it has acquired a greenifh 
or blue colour. 

The white and red forts of tartar are 
equally fit for the purpofe of making 
fixt fait; the only difference is, that 
the white affords a fomewhat larger 
quantity than the other ; from fixteen 
ounces, upwards of four may be ob- 
ta ned. The ufe of the paper is to 
prevent the fmaller pieces of the tartar 
from dropping down into the afh hole, 
throuR-h the interftices of the coals, 
upon fin'! irjedling it into the furnace. 
The calcination of the fait (if the tar- 
tar was fufficiently burnt at firll) does 
not increase its ftrength fo much as is 
fuppofed : nor is the greenifh or blue 



A L K 

colour any certain mark either of ica 
ftrength, 01 of its having been long 
expoftd to a vehement fiie : foi it the 
crucible is perfeflly clean, clofe cover- 
ed, and has flood the fiie without 
cracking, the fait will turn out white, 
tho' kept fufed and verber^ted ever fo 
long} whilft, on the other hand, a 
flight accident, or dextrous manage- 
ment of the" procefj, fliall in a tew mi- 
nutes give the fait the colour admired. 

The (hop* were formerly burthened 
with a great number of thefe falts, 
which are now very judicioufly reject- 
ed ; thofe here retained being abun- 
dantly fufficient to anfwer all the ufe- 
fui puipofes that can be expected from 
thefe kinds of preparations. A\ fixt 
alcaline falts, from whatever vegetable 
they may be obtained, are nearly one 
and the fame thing, and not diilin- 
guifhable from each other, at leaft in 
their effects as medicines : and hence 
the college of Lon on, in moit oi the 
compofitions wherein thefe forts of 
falts ate ingredients, allow any fixt al- 
caline fait to be made ufe of. 

Some differences indeed are obferved 
in them as ufually prepared ; but ti:efe 
depend entirely upon the manner in 
which the procefs for obtaining them 
is conduced, and not on their being 
produced from different vegetables. 
Thus a variation in the heat by which 
the plant is burnt or calcined, occa- 
lions a difference in the acrimony of 
the produce : the more vehement and 
lafting the fire (to a certain degree) 
the more acrid is the fait. Tie cir- 
cumltances of applying the water '.iot 
or cod to the alhes, likevt ife make a 
conliderable variation: boiled warer 
takes up more of the earthy parts (and 
of the oily ones, if any remain uncon- 
firmed) than cold water : and likewife 
a kind of neutral fait, of a quite diffe- 
rent nature from alcaline ones, though 
frequently found among the alhes of 
vegetable*, efpecially fuch as have been 
expofed for fome time to the air : whilft 
cold water extracls from them only the 
pure alcaline fait, unlefs it be ufed in 
too large a quantity, or fuffe.ed to 
(land too long upon them. 

Thefe falts have an acrimonious fiery 
tafie. They render vegetable oils and 
refins, and animal fats, foluble in wa- 
ter; and liquefy all the animal juices, 
except milk. Taken into the body, 
they itimulne and deterge the folids, 
attenuate 



A L K 



A C I 



attenuate the fluids, diffblve vifcid te- 
nacious matter ; and by thefe means, 
open obflructior.s of the veffels, and 
promote all the natural fecretions. A 
dilute folution of them drank in bed, 
generally excites a copious fv.'e::t : by 
walking in the cool air, its action is 
determined to the kidneys : taken for 
fome time in proper dofes, it proves 
an excellent remedy for coftivenefs, ef- 
pecially if a few grains of aloes be oc- 
cafionally interpofed : this medicine 
has an advantage above all the other 
purgatives and laxatives, that when 
the complaint is once removed, it is 
not apt to return again. Thefe falts 
are mod ferviceable in cold phlegmatic 
habits, snd where acidities abound in 
the prims viae : they powerfully ab- 
forb acids, and unite with them into 
mildly aperient neutral falts. In a 
colliquated acrimonious ftate of the 
fluids, where there is any inflamma- 
tion, cr a tendency to putrefcence, 
they are manifeftly prejudicial. — The 
dofe of thefe falts is from two or three 
grains to a dram or more. 

Alkalies, fuch as pot-aflr, are of ex- 
tenfive ufe in fulling, fcouring, &c. 
for they diffblve all kinds of fate and 
greafy fubftances, with which, when 
properly combined, they form a fub- 
ilancewell known by the nameoffoap. 
They heighten crimfon and purple co- 
lours, to which they give a bioom of 
inimitable beauty; but then it is ex- 
tremely volatile. Dyed filk or wool- 
len, that have been thus heightened, 
may, when faded, be in great ineafure 
reftored by applying a weak folution 
of pot-afh, or bullock's gall ; purple or 
violet-coloured ribbons Ihouid when 
frideJ be dipped in a weak folution of 
falt-petre. 

Vegetable fubftances in general when 
fully impregnated with fixed alkaline 
f.ftts never flame ; and do not burn at 
all without a continuance of external 
heat ; hence fome have propofed to 
impregnate wood with them 10 prevent 
buildings taking fiie ; but thefe falts 
imbibe moifture fo faft from the air, 
that the timber would feldom be dry. 

We did not at firit intend to tier;t 
this fubject fo fully; but as bcth al- 
k.ftie; and acids are very frequently 
ufed in medicine, and are fo intimately 
connected wish our work, we have 
jungei it mcfi proper ts fubjoiii the 
article Acid, 



ACID, a general name for every 
thing that affects the raft; with four- 
nefs. The form under winch acids 
mod commonly appear, is that of a 
tranfparent liquor ; though folidity is 
rather their natural ftate. This is ow- 
ing to their affinity with water; which 
is fo great, that, when they contain 
but juft as much of it as is neceffary to 
conititute them falts, and confequently 
have a folid form, they rapidly unite 
with that fluid the moment they come 
into contact with it : and, as the air 
is always loaded with moiflure and u- 
queous vapours, its contact alone is 
fufficient to liquify acid falts ; becaufe 
they unite with its humidity, imbibe 
it greedily, and by that means become 
fluid. We therefore fay, they attract 
the moifture of the air. This change 
of a fait from a folid to a fluid ftate, 
by the fole contact of the air, is alfo 
called deliquium ; fo that when a fait 
changes in this manner from a folid 
into a fluid form, it is faid to run per 
deliquium . 

Acids in general have a great affinity 
with earths : that with which they 
mod: readily unite, is called abfor- 
bent earth. They feem to exert no 
action at all upon vitrifiahle earths, 
fuch as fand, and fome other kinds, at 
leaft while they continue in their na- 
tural ftate. 

When an acid liquor is mixed with 
an abforbent earth, for inftance with 
chalk, thefe two fubftances inftantly 
unite with fo much impetuofuy, efpe- 
cially if the acid liquor be thoroughly 
dephlegmated, that a great ebullition 
is immediately produced, attended with 
ccnfiderable biffing, heat, and vapours, 
which rife the very inftant of their con- 
junction. 

From the combination of an acid 
with an abforbent earth, there arifes 
a new compound, which fomechemifts 
have called fai f,i I fu?;i ; becaufe the acid, 
by uniting with the earth lofes its four 
tafte and acquires another not unlik* 
that of the common fea fait ufed in our 
kitchens : yet varying according to tha 
different forts of acids and earths com- 
bined together. The acid at the fame 
time lofes its property of turning ve-< 
gerable blues and violet colours, r^d. 

There are three kinds of Acids pe- 
culiar to the mineral kingdom; tlw 
vitriolic, nitrous, and marine— the'.'e 
C a:e 



A C I 



A C I 



are generally called mineral r.zlds. All 
theft are highly corrol ve, inf.-niucli 
as not to -. fafely toudiecl unli fs 
largely diluted ' Mixed haftily with 
vinous fpirit t : y raife a violent ebul- 
lition, with a copious difchaVgeof nox 
ious fumes; by thi- addition the acid 
is dulcified, as the S-w et Spirit of Nitre. 

Uni-verfa! or Vn r otic Acid is lo 
called, becaufe :t is in fact the acid 
which is moft univerfally djffufed thro' 
all nature, in wafers, in the atrftof] here, 
and iii the bowels of trie earth. But 
it is fejdom pure, being almoil always 
combined with feme other fubftance, 
That from which we dbtalri it with 
moft eafe, and in the greatelt quantity, 
is vitriol : and this is thifci le.oon why 
it is called the -vitriolic acid, the name 
by which it is generally known. 

When the vitriolic acid contains but 
little phlegm, yet enough to ■ ivt it a 
fluid form, i? is cal.ed til of <v 

If the vinioiic ricid cpotairi much 
water, i- i: then called Spirit of Vi- 
triol. When it does not contain e- 
to render it fluid, and Co is 
in a folid form, it is named the Icy Gil 
of V i 7 k i o r. . 

! oil of vi-trio! highly concen- 
trated i ■ oii-.-o I v ith water, they rufh 
■.;_.. ihat 
tnei m - : » other, 

,; . ,., ■ oife like that of 

, :.d in cold water, 
jogetljer with a very confide i 

the c!e- 
■ i which the a-, id w is cicncen- 
ti 

If, inftead of mixirig this concen- 
trated acid with water, you only leave 
■ d to 'he a r for f : 

. ■ - 
its I is weight are incre.fed 

, ir ha 

,:, h icqu'ued will 

foon'refn into . ■ 

r rend r the 
vitriolic acid, d ail other a- 

ci is. v.'-lei in one frnfe; ihat is, 

I ■■ • • 
tertafte of acidity, and acTive 

i 

i .in the 

: . ; ffinnhi ; ir e i 

v'ciai h;.:. ; ; ..-ces, which, when 



plilegmated, they are incapable of at- 
tacking. 

The vitriolic acid, combined to the 
point of faturation with a particular 
abforbent earth, the nature of which 
is not vet well known, forms a neu- 
trai fait that chryfrallizes. This fait is 
cailed yy.'i/w, and the figure of*ita chryf- 
tal- is that oi an odtahedron or folid of 
eight fides. 

The vitriolic acid, combined with 
certain earths, forms a kind of neutral 
lot called Selemtes, which chryita'lizes 
in different forms, according to the 
nature of its earth. 1 here are num- 
herltf> fprings of water impregnated 
with difTolvecl Selcnites; but wicnonce 
this fait is chryftallized, it is exceeding 
Cifrkult to diflblve it in water a fe- 
cond time. 

If an alkali be prefented to the fele- 
n ; re.-, or to alum, thefe falts will he 
theie'w decompofed : that is, the acid 
will quit the earths', and join the alka- 
li, with which it hath a greater affi- 
nity. And, from this conjunction of 
the vitrolic acid with a fixed alkali, 
there refults another fort of neutral 
fait, which is called A'\anum duplica- 
;:,"., Sal dt duobus, and •vitriplated Tar- 
tar, beCaufe one of the fixed alkalies 
molt inuf: is called S.-rt of Tartar, 

From the conjunction of the vitrio- 
ls acid with the phlogifton, arifes a 
Compound called Mineral Sulphur ; be- 
caufe ir is found perl. oily formed in 
the bowels of the earth. It is alfo 
called fulphur vivum, or (imply, ful- 
phur. 

Nitrous Acid, a particular kind 
of acid, which, combined whit ,-in al- 
balirieta'lt, forms a body called Nitre. 

The nitiou . a i J with 

certain abforbent earths, fuch as chalk, 
. bo'e;. forms neutr..! falts 
v-'hich i • lallize ; and which, 

after beii g dried, mn in the air per de- 
liquium. 

All thofcr.eutr.il fa'ts, which confift 
of thenittoiis acid, joined to an earth, 
ma bi npofed by a fixed a 

with which the acid unites, aiid i 
the earth j ^<^d from this union of the 
nitrous acid with a fi ■: •; alkali, refulrs 
a now neutral fait, which is c.iii«.d A;- 
tre, or A". V . 

' ', when thus f#pa- 

i v theviti iolic acid, 

is .-.. fired pin .' . e, G '/qua For- 

tis. 



A C I 

tit. If it be dephlegmated, or contain 
but little fupetfluous water, it exhales 
in reddifh vapours j thefe vapours, be- 
ing condenfed and collected, form a li- 
quor 01 a brownifh yellow, that incef- 
fanny emits vapours of the fame co- 
lour, and of a pungent difagreeable 
fmell. Thefe characters have procu- 
red it the names oi fmoking fpirit of 
nitre, and yellow aqua tortis. This 
property in the nitrous acid, of exha- 
ling in vapours, fhtws it to be lefs fix- 
ed than the vitriolic acid ; for the lat- 
ter, though ever fo thoroughly de- 
ph'egmated, never yields any vapours, 
nor has it any fme.l. 

Mur.ne Acid, or the Acid of Sea 
Salt, an acid obtaine from fuch fea 
fait as is ufed in our kitchens. 

"When it is combined with abforbent 
earths, fuch as lime and chalk, it forms 
a neutral fait that does nut chryftal- 
lize, and, when dried, attracts the 
mcifhire of the air. If the abforbtnt 
eaith he not fully faturated with the 
maiine acid, the fait thereby formed 
has the properties of a fixed alkali. 
The marine acid, like the reft, hath 
not fo great an affinity with earths, as 
with fixed alkalies. 

When it is combined with the lat- 
ter', it forms a neutral fait, which 
fhoots into cubical chryftals. This 
fall is inclined to grow moift in the air. 

'1 he acid of fea fait, difengaged from 
the fubfiance which feivedit for a ba- 
flSj is called Spirit of Sal:. 

From what has been faid of the u- 
nion of the acid cf fea -fait with a 
fixed alkali, and of the neutral fait re- 
fulting from that combination, it may 
be concluded that this neutral fait is 
no other than the common kitchen 
fait. 

Common fait, or the neutral fait, 
formed hy the combining the maiine 
acid with this particular fort of fixed 
alkali, ha- a tafte'well known to every 
body. The figure of its chryftals is 
exactly cubical. It grows mojii in the 
air, and, when expofed to the fire it 
buriis. before it melts, into many little 
fragments, with a crackling ncife; 
which is called the decrepitation of 
fea fait. 

/'. .,;'-.'.' Acids, are native, as Li- 
e of lemons, barberries, and o- 
ther fruits; or produced by fermenta- 
tion, aa tartar, vinegar, and alegar. 



A C I 

The medical effects of acids, duly 
diluted and exhibited in proper dbfes, 
are, to cool, quench third, and allay 
inordinate motions of the blood. By 
thefe qualities, in hot bilious tempe- 
raments and inflammatory difordcrs, 
they frequently reftrain immoderate 
harmorrhagies, and promote the natu- 
ral fecretions ; in fome kinds of fe- 
vers, they excite a copious diaphorefis, 
where the warm medicines called a- 
lexipharmac, tend rather to prevent 
this falutary difcharge. 

Vegetable acids, particularly the na- 
tive juices of certain plants and fruits, 
have fomedegree of a (aponaceous qua- 
lity ; by means of which thty attenu- 
ate or diflblve vifciri phlegm, and de- 
terge tlie v.f'e! ; and thus piovefer- 
viceable in fund'y chronical diforders. 
Inveterate fcurvies have fometimes 
yielded to their continued ufe, efpeci- 
ally wlien given in conjunction with 
me licines of the acrid or pungent 
kind : experience has fhewn that the 
acrid antifc rbutics have much better 
effects when thus managed, than when 
exhibited by themfelves ; hence in the 
fcorbutic juices of our difpenfatorres, 
feville orange juice is ufeiully joined 
to that of the fcurvy-grafs and cr- lies. 

The mineral acids inftantly coagu- 
late blood : the vegetable dilute it, e- 
ven when infpiffated or thickened by 
heat; in which ltate, watery liquors 
will not mingle with it. Hence in 
feme fevers, where water tuns off by 
the kidneys almoft as pale and infipid 
as it was drank, vegetable acids fo'on 
render the urine of the due colour and 
quality. The mineral acids (the pi- 
rit of nitre in particular) combined 
with vinous fpirits, have the fame effedr. 

Acid's of every kind are prejudicial 
in cold pale, phlegmatic habits, where 
the veffels are lax. the circulation lan- 
guid, bile deficient, and the power of 
d ii n weak. In thefe cafes, an a- 
cid is often generated in the ftomach, 
from milk and molt vegetable foods, 
which, whilft it continues in the firft 
paffiges, occasions uneafinefs about 
the ftomach, flatulencies fometimes 
griping pains of the bowels, vomiting, 
or the cholera morbus. 

The mineral acids are frequently 
ufed to difcharge iron-mould 
fpots, &C. but the effenti.d fait of ve- 
getables, fuch as lemon, forrel, &c. is 
C i much 



Sec A co: t lnte, 



ALL 



ALL 



'x 
> 






.. much prefer We ; for the former are 
^ Nk apt to hum the linen, which the lat- 
^ ter never do. If any of the mineral 
^, acids be diluted with water, and th n 
^ fpvinkled upon writing paper, and the 
pa;->e; held ne r the fire, the water will 
evaporate, and the fpirit will calcine 
jc. the papei ; but this effect will not be 
f> produced by any of the vegetable acids. 
\tv ALEGAR, a kind of vinegar made 

C^k with malt liquor. Thefe kinds of vi- 
k > negar are not fo pure as the wine vine- 
^ gars, for they contain a large portion 
of a vifcous mucilaginous fubftance, 
^. N as is evident from the ropynefe which 
^^ alegar is fuhjett to ; hence they are 
prejudicial in fcoibuticdiforders, where 
lemon-juice, and the bell wine vine- 
gars, are highly falutary. 

ALKEKENGI. See Winter 
Cji e r b y. 

ALLELUJAH. SeeWooD Sorrel. 
ALLEY, in the new husbandry, im- 
plies the vacant ("pact between the out- 
ermost row of corn on one bed, and 
trie nearer! row to it on the next pa- 
rallel bed. SkB;d. 

The practice of the new hufbandry 
has alread) fufficiently fhewn, that loo 
narrow alls; s w ou d hardly anfwer any 
of the cr.da lor which they are intend- 
ed ; and, on the other hand, the ma- 
king them too wide is a lof of ground. 
About four feet exclufive of the fpaces 
or partitions between ri>e rows of corn 
in thebeds, is a good middling breadth. 
It is not indeed necefifary to make 
the alleys quite fo wide in good foils; 
an intelligent hufbandman will eafily 
judge what breadth is moll proper. 
But what greatly merits the attention 
of every one, and ought never to be 
lr ft fight of, is, that wide alleys are 
more eafily and much better furred 
than thofe which are narrower: for 
when an alley is wide, the large fur- 
row in the middle of it may be cut 
dep, there being then fufneient room 
to turn the earth over towards thcrowsj 
while on t'.ie other hand, the earth, 
in too narrow alleys, cannot be Mined 
deep enough, nor can room be found 
for what is turned over out of the fur- 
rows, without danger pf burying great 
part of the rows, 

We will, therefore, ft:ppcfe the ge- 
neral breadth of the alleys to be about 
four feet; bur the whole pf that breadth 
i-, not to be ploughed or fUrfcd. either 
V.ith th" pic : gh or CLiiijvr.for, asfoon. 






as the field is fown. Neither of thefe 
inftruments ought to go too near the 
rows of corn, for fear of rooting up the 
plants \ but a flip of earth, about fix 
inches wide, fhould be left untouched 
on the outfide of each bed ; by which 
means the part of the alley that is to 
be ftirred, will be reduced to the 
breadth of three feet ; and even that is 
lellened in the firft ploughing before 
winter by a deep furrow, which is 
then cut clofe to, and all along thofe 
fix inch flips, and the earth taken out 
of each furrow is thrown into the 
great furrow in the middle of the al- 
ley, which itferves to fill and arch up. 
Thefe two fide furrows make together 
a breadth of about eighteen inches, 
and confeqtiently leave, in the mid- 
dle of the alley, a breadth of about 
eighteen inches more, on which is 
heaped up the earth thrown cut of the 
two furrows : and thus the alleys re- 
main all the winter. 

Tlje firtl hoeing in the fpring fhould 
turn the earth, heaped up in the mid- 
dle of the alleys, back towards the 
rows of corn. The two furrows that 
were opened before winter are then 
filled up, and a new one is cut in the 
middle of the alley. 

To perform the firft hoeing with the 
common plough, which may be very 
eafiry done, two turns of that inftru- 
ment will be requifite, namely, one 
en each fide of the alley, as near as 
polfibleto the beds. But as thefe two 
turns will not be always ftfScient to 
form the furrow perfectly, a great deal 
of eirt-b frequently remaining between 
it and the bed, a third turn of the 
plough becomes often neceffary ; and 
fometimes a fourth, to hollo.-/ the 
middle furrow as it ought to be. 

If this work be performed with the 
cultivator with two mould-boards, the 
inftrument muft be placed in the mid- 
dle of the alley, and the horfes in one 
of the two fin rows. The (hare will 
eafrly enter a great depth into the 
earth, which was laid there bythelait 
hosing before winter : and as the hor. 
fes advance, that great ridge of eiuh 
will be divided into two parts, which 
will be turned over into, and fill up 
the furrows that were made before 
winter, on each fide cf the alley elefc 
to ths beds, See the article Cult It 

Thus 



A L M 



A L M 



Thus the great furrow in the middle 
of the alley will be opened, and the 
whole operation performed by one 
turn ol the cultivator. The earth thus 
turned over will be thoroughly (fined, 
and lo much time and labour will be 
fav d by this method, that the farmer 
may ali y afford one or two ftirrings 
more in the furhmer, which will al- 
ways be ot great fervice. M. de Cha- 
teau-vteux. 

Alley, in gardening, implies a 
flrait walk bounded on both fides with 
tree, or fhrubs, and commonly cover- 
ed with gravel or g'ifs. 

An alley is diAmguilhed from a path, 
by be:n» broad enough for two pei fons 
to walk a-brcait, whereas a path is 
fuppofed to admit of only one at a 
time; but if an alley be wider than 
ten or twelve feet, it may, with more 
propriety, be ca.led a walk. 

Covered Alley, is that where the 
trees on each fide meet at the top, fo 
as to form a fhade. 

ALL-GOOD. SeeENGLisn Kerb 
Mercury. 

ALL-HEAL, [Panach] is only to 
be met with in the gardens of the cu- 
rious, the prefent pharm.icy taking no 
notice of it. 

C/oivns All-He a l, [Panax Coiont] 
a weed ufed by the common country 
people with fuccefs in frefh wounds. 

ALL-SPICE, Jamaica Pepper. See 
Pepper . 

ALLUVION, [AHuvio] among civi- 
lians, denote^ the gradual increafe of 
lands, along the fea fhore, or on the 
banks of rivtrs. This when flow and 
imperceptible, is deemed a lawful ac- 
quifitii_n ; but when a considerable 
portion of land is torn away at once 
by the violence of the current, and 
joined to a neighbouring eftate, it may 
be claimed again bv the former owner. 

ALMIGG1M WOOD, in fcripture, 
is thought to be the Indian pine-tree, 
which being exceeding light, and of a 
bev.ttiful white colour, was greatly 
efleemed for making mufical inftru- 
ments. 

ALMOND-TREE, [AmygJaks] is 
gensraily cultivated, in gardens tor the 
beauty of its flowers. Thefe often ap- 
pear i'i February, when the fpring is 
forward ; but if froft comes on after 
the flowers appear, their beauty will 
be of fher; duration, -nd in thefe 



feafons few almonds are produced j 
whereas when the trees do not flower 
till late in March, they feldcm fail to 
bear plenty of fruit ; many of which 
will be veryfweet, and fit for the table 
when green, but they will not keep 
long. 

Almond-trees are propagated by in- 
oculating a bud of thefe trees into a 
plum, almond, or peach- flock, in the 
month of July. The next fpring, when 
the buds lhoot, you may train them 
up, either for flandards, or fuffei them, 
to grt>w for half flandards, according 
to your own fancy. 

The bed f-afon for tranfplanting 
thefe trees, if for dry ground, is in Oc- 
tober, as loon as the leaves begin to 
decay ; but for a wet foil, February is 
much preierable : obferve always to 
bud upon plum-flocks for wet grounds, 
and on almond or peach-flocks for dry. 

Enter Almonds and Sweet Al- 
monds, [Amygdala Amara: et Dulces.] 
The almond is a Antrim kernel, of a 
white colour, covered with a thin 
trownifh fkin ; of a foft fweet taflej 
or a difagreeable bitter one. Thefkins 
of both forts are unpleafant, and co- 
vered with an acrid powdery fubftance: 
they are very apt to become rancid by 
keeping, and to be preyed on by a kind 
cfinfe£r, which eats out the internal 
part, leaving the almond to appearance 
entire. The fruits which afford thefe 
kernels, is the produce of a tree greatly 
refembling the peach, called by C. B. 
amygialui fat'tva. The eye diflinguifhes 
no difference betwixt the trees which 
produce the fweet and bitter almonds, 
or betwixt the kernels themfelves : one 
and the fame tree has by a difference 
in the culture afforded fometimes one 
fort and fometimes the other. 

Eoth forts of almonds yield on ex- 
prefflon a large quantity cf oil, which 
has no fmell or any particular tafle : 
this oil feparates likewife upon boiling 
the almonds in water, and is gradually 
collected on the furface : on tritura- 
tion with water, it unites therewith, 
by the mediation of the other matter 
cf the almond, and forms an unftnous 
milky liquor. Sweet almonds are of 
greater me in food than as medicines; 
but they do not leem to afford much 
nouriihment, and when eaten in fub- 
ftance are not eafy of digestion, unleu - 
thoroughly comminuted. They ara 
fuppofed 



A L M 



A L O 



fuppofed on account of their foft unc- 
tuous quality, to < btund acrimonious 
juices in the piim,£ v,a; : peeled fweet 
almonds, eaten fix or eight at a time, 
fometunes give prefcnt iciief in the 
foda. Bitter almonds have been lound 
p if, nous to do ■ ! fundi y other 

animals; and a watei diftilled from 
them, when made of a certain degree 
offlrengrh, has had like effects. Ne- 
vertheless, eaten, they appear innocent 
to men, an J have been not unfrequent- 
]y exhibited as medicines : Boeihaave 
recommends them in fubilar.ee as diu- 
retics which heat moderately, and 
which may therefore be ventured upon 
in acute difeafes. The oils obtained by 
expreffion from both forts of almonds 
are in their fenfible qualifies the fame. 
The general virtues of thefe oils are, 
to blunt acrimonious humours, and to 
foften and relax the folids hei :e 
their ufe internally, in tickling coughs, 
heat of urine, pains and inflamma- 
tions ; and externally in tenfion and 
rigidity o) particular parts. The milky 
folutions of almond, in watery liquors, 
commonly called emulnons, contain^ 
the ©il of the fuljeifr, and participate 
in fome degree of the emollient virtue 
thereof; but have this advantage above 
the pure oil, that they msry'be given 
in acute or inflammatory diforders, 
without danger of the ill effefts which 
the oil might fometimes produce; 
fince emulfions do net turn rancid or 
acrimonious by heat, as all the oils of 
this kind in a little time do. Several 
uncluous and refinous fubftances, of 
themfelves not mifcible with water, 
may by trituration with almonds be 
eafily mixed with it into the form of 
an emulfion ; a'-.d are thus excellently 
fitted for exhibition. In tins form, 
camphor aid the refinous purgatives 
may be cbrhmedioufly exhibited. 

African Almond. [Bmbcjum.~\ Thi; 
is by fome called the Ethiopian dlmonJ, 
and is a native of the country about 
the Cape of Good Hope, where it 
grows to be a middling fizt trie; but 
in Europe it feldorn exceeds eight or 

I in height ; foi it i: too terfrfer 
1 1 live through the winter in the open 
air. 

As this plant i ; very difficult to pro- 
pagate, it is very fcarce in Europ 

propagated, though with diffi- 
culty, by making foyers in April, juft 



as the plants are beginning to fhoot, 
obferving uiways to make the layirs 
of the former year's fhoots, and to flit 
them at a j' int, as .s praclifed in lay ■ 
fng carnations. 

The plants will require a good 
green-houfe in wimer; but in fummer 
will bear the open air in a ihelteied 
fituation. When they arrive at a pro- 
per age, they will pioduce flowers in 
thefj j which are oi a pale colour, 
i ite, am; will then make 

a pretty vant. ng other exotics 

in the green-houfe. 

Dwarf Aimonps, \PerJica\ two 
forts, one with fingle flowers, a;>d the 
other with double. 

They make?, very agreeable variety 
amongfl low flowering trees in wilder^ 
nefs walks. The (ingle fort flowers in 
the beginning oi April, and ti.e double 
a fortnight Ia r er. They may be bud- 
ded upon almond (locks, or propagated 
by layers ; they will alfo take upon 
plum flocks, bit then they will be 
apt to canker, efpecially the double 
fort, which is tenderer than the other. 

AL..TUG-TRLE, in fcripture, is 
understood to be a gummy oily fort of 
tree, and p irticularly that which pro- 
duces gum arabic, 

ALOA, in Grecian antiquity, a fef- 
tival kept in honour of Ceres by the 
hufb indmen, an:! fuppofed torefemble 
cur harveft-hi 

ALOE LAgave, Americana mur'tcata,] 
Co::inicn American Aioe. Mr. Miiier 
enumerates eight fpecies ; but the ccm- 
m-n %reat American Aloe deferves the 
ii, -. particular nu;:'.. 

1; has long been preferved in the 
Englifli gardens, where, of late years, 
there have been feveral of the piants in 
flower, where they make a fine ap- 
. j, and continue a long time in 
beai'ty, if they are protected from the 
cold in autumn; for in favourable fea- 
fons there will be a fucceffion of new 
flowers for near three months. If the 
pl..nt is vigi roiiy the (fern will rife 
upwards ot twenty feet hig'hj and 
bi inch out on every fide towards the 
top,. ( as to ' i a kind of pyi amid ; 
the (lender fhoots being garni ih • 

: , :. ifh yellow flowers wliic ; I 

ere£r, and o me out in thick ciuftsrs at 
every joint. 

It has been gent ' " n 1 that 

t!.i; plant does not flower tid it is an 

h-ondted 



A L O 



A L O 



hundred years eld; but this is a mif- 
take; the time of its flowering depends 
on its growth, which will be farter or 
flower according to the warmth of the 
climate. There is a variety of this fort 
with itriped leaves, which is now 
pretty common in the Englifh gardens. 

It is an hardy ;.lant, and ha!> been 
known to live in the open air for fome 
years in miid feafims; but fevere win- 
ters . I ways prove fatal, unlef. it is 
then fheltered. It may be propagated 
by offsets, which it puts out in great 
plenty. Thefe fhould be planted in 
potb filled with light fandy earth, and 
houfed in winter ; and during that fea- 
fon have but li i tie water. In fummer 
they may be expofed to the open air, 
but again houfed in winter. 

There is another fort nearly refem- 
blin? this, called the Great American 
Aloe, which has lately flowered in Eng- 
land. The principal difference is, the 
leaves are narrower towards their ex- 
tremity, and of a paler colour ; the Item 
does not rife fo high, nor does it branch 
in the fame manner, but the flowers 
are collected into a clofe head at the 
top; they are however of the fame 
fhape and colour. 

Moft of the aloes are too tender to 
be prefetved through the winter, un- 
lefs they are placed in a warm fteve; 
nor will they thrive in fummer, if fa 
abroad in the open air. They fliould 
be watered gently twice a week in 
Warm weather, for if they are watered 
freely, their leaves will focn be infeffd 
with infefls, and their roots decay. 
They fhould be fhifted intofrefh earth 
every fummer, but the pets iriuQ not 
be large, for unlefs the roots are con- 
fined the ; lant will not thrive. 

Afrl'.an Aloe, \_Aktrii\ of which 
there are lour fpecies; but two only, 
viz. the Guinea Aloe and the True Alee, 
ft m worth preserving. They are ten- 
der plants, and mttfi be placed in the 
ftove all the year, admitting a free air 
in warm weather. 

ALOE, of which Mr. Miller reckons 
twenty-three different fpecies. It 
would greatly exceed our limits to fol- 
low him through the defcription of 
fo tn .my fuits : we (hall therefoie con- 
tent ourfelves with giving a few Hiicc- 
ti'ons for their propagation and cu ture. 

The foil in which they thrive i : '< is 
pne half frefh light earth from a com-' 



Itton (and if the turl is raken with ii 
and rotted it will be much bctttr) ; the 
reft fhould be equal parts ot v hite (ea 
(and andfifted lime rubbifh; mix thefe 
together fix or feven months btlore it 
is ufi-d, obferving to turn it often. 

Moll of the Aloes are increafed by 
offsets, which fhould be taken from 
the mother plant about the middle of 
July, (the time when the plants fhould 
befhiited) and put into very fmall pots; 
but if in taking the fuckers off, you 
obferve the part which joined the mo- 
ther root to be moid, you fliould let 
them lie out of the ground in a fhady 
dry place for about a week, otherwife 
they will be fubjtel to rot. 

After planting, place them in a fhady 
dry place for a fortnight, when the ten- 
der ib; ts may be removed to a moderate 
hot- bed. obferving to fh.ide the glaffes 
in the middle of the day, to give them 
a very free air. Towards the middle 
of Auguft begin to harden them by 
taking off the glaffes in good weather, 
and by raifing them with props; and 
towards the end of September they may 
be removed into the houfe. 

The African Aloes for the moft part 
afford plenty of fuckers; but hole that 
do not may be propagated by taking 
off the under leaves a: d laying them 
to dry for ahout ten days, and then 
plantfr.g am ; managing them in all re- 
fuels like the offsets ; the beii feafon 
for this is in June. 

The middle of July is a proper fea- 
fen to fhift the plants into other pots. 
This muft be done with great care, 
remembering to "put a few ftor.es at the 
bottom oi' the pot that thefuperfluous 
moifiure m?y drain off. Water them 
gently, and fet them in a fhady place 
for three weeks. 

Towards the latter end cf September 
remove them into the hcufe again, and 
let them have as much tree open aims 
po'ffible, but guard againft cool nights. 
Th >fe plants which are placed in a 
ftove will require to be watered once a 
week great pa;t ot the winter, while 
thofe in <he green-houfe fliould not be 
ed oftener than once a month. 

'i he tender forts mult constantly- re- 
m in in the ftove, or in fummer he 
1 to an airy glafs cafe, but 
rrfufl be protected from rain and cold. 
With this management the plants will 
thrive and increafe, and fuch of them 



A L O 

as ufually flower may be expefled to 
.produce them in beauty atthci: feafons. 

ALOL,or ALOES, is the infpiffated 
juice of certain plants of the fame 
name. The ancients diftinguifned two 
forts of Aloes ; the one was pure and 
of a yellowifh colour, inclining to 
red, refembling the colour of liver, 
and thence named hepatic ; the other 
was full of impurities, and hence fup- 
pofed to be only the drofs of the better 
kind. At prefent, various forts are 
met within the fhops; which are dif- 
tinguiftied either from the places, from 
the fpecies of the plants, or from fome 
differences in the juices themfclves. 
Thefe may be all ranged in thiee 
claffes : 

(i) Aloe Socotorina. Socoto- 
rine aloes, brought from the ifland of 
Sccotora in the Indian ocean, wrapt in 
fkins ; it is obtained from the al-.t fuc- 
(Otorina av.guf.'ifolia fpinofa^, f.oi <c purpurea, 
Brejn & Commelin. — This fort is the 
pureft of the three: it is of a glofty 
furface, clear, and in fome degree pel- 
lucid ; in the lump, of a yellowifh red 
colour, with a purple caft; when re- 
duced to powder, of a bright golden 
colour. It is hard and friable in the 
winter, fomewhat pliable in fummer, 
and grows foft betwixt the fingers. Its 
tafls is bitter, accompanied with an 
aromatic flavour, but infufficient to 
prevent its being difagteeable : The 
fmeil is not very unpleafant, and fome- 
what refembles that of myrrh. 

(z) Aloe Hepatic a. Hepatic, 
Barbadoes, China, or common aloes ; 
the juice of the aloe C. L'.a.'oe -vera vul- 
garis, Munting. — Hepatic aloes is not fo 
clear and bright as the foiegoing fort : 
it is alfo of a darker colour, more com- 
pact texture, and for the moil part 
dryer. Its fmeil is much ftxonger and 
more difagreeable: Tiie tafte intenfely 
bitter and naufeous, with little or no- 
thing of the fine aromatic flavour of 
the bocotorine. — The bed hepatic aloes 
comes from Barbadoes in large gourd 
fhe'ls ; an inferioi fort of it (which is 
generally foft and clammy) is brought 
over in cafks, 

(?) Aloe Cabailina. Guinea, 
fetid, cabaliine, or horfe aloes; the 
produce ot the aht •Guinttifis cab'il 
trarijimi i 

This fcrt is eafjly diftinguifhed from 
botli the foregoing, by its ltrong rank 
fmeil ; although; in other reflects, it 



A L O 

agrees pretty much with the hepatic, 
and is not unfrequemly fold in its 
ftead. Sometime- the cabaliine aloes 
is prepared fo pure and bright, as not 
to be diftingmfhable by the eye even 
from the Socotorine; but its offenfive 
fmeil. which it cannot be diverted of, 
readily betrays it. 

Ail the forts of aloes diffolve in pure 
fpirit, proof fpirit, and proof fpirit 
diluted with half its weight of water ; 
the impurities only bein^ left. They 
difTolve alfo by the arti tance of heat 
in water alone ; but as the liquor grows 
cold, the refinous part fubfides, the 
gummy remaining united with the wa- 
ter. The hepatic aloes is found to 
contain more renn, and lefs gum than 
the focotorine, and this than the ca- 
baliine. The refms of all the forts, 
purified by fpirit of wine, have little 
fmeil: That obtained from the foco- 
torine has fcarce any perceptible tafte ; 
that of the hepatic a flight bitterifh 
reliCt), aid the relin of the cabaliine, 
a little moreof the alcetic flavour. The 
gummy extracts of all the forts are lefs 
cji/agreeal !e than the crude aloes: The 
extract of focotorine aloes has very lit- 
ile fmeil, and is in tafte not unpleafant; 
that of the hepatic has a fomewhat 
ftronger fmeil, but is rather more 
agreeable in tafte than the extract of 
the focotorine : The gum of the ca- 
baliine retains a confiderable fhare of 
the peculiar rank fmeli of this fort of 
aioes, but its tafte is not much more 
unpleafant than that of the extracts 
made from the two other forts. 

Aloes is a fiimulating cathartic hit- 
ter : If given in fo large a drfe as to 
purge tffectur.il;', it often occafions an 
irritation about the anus, and ior^e- 
times a difc'iarge of bleed. Small 
dofes of it frequently repeated, not 
only clcanfe the prima* vis, but like- 
wife attenuate and diifolve vifeid juices 
in the remotsr parts, warm the habit, 
quicken the circulation, and promote 
the uterine and hemorrhoidal fluxes. 
This medicine is particularly fervieca- 
ble in perfons of a phlegmatic tempe- 
rament and fedentary life, and where the 
ftomach is opprefied and weakened : 
In dry bilious habits, aloes proves 
injurious, immoderately heating the 
blood, and inflaming the bowels.— 
This juice is likevvife, on account of 
its hitternefs, fhppofed to kill v 
either taken internally, or applied in 
p'ai Iters, 



A L O 

plaifters to the umbilical region. It is 
alfo celebrated for restraining external 
haemorrhagies, cleanfing and healing 
wounds and ulcers. 

The ancients exhibited aloes in 
much larger dofes than is cuftomary at 
prefent. Diofcorides orders half a 
dram or a dram for gently loofening 
the belly ; and three drams when in- 
tended to have the full effect of a 
cathartic. But modern practice rarely 
exceeds a fcruple, and limits the great- 
e!t dofe to twofciuples : For the com- 
mon purpofes of this medicine, ten or 
twelve grains are Sufficient; taken in 
thefe quantities, it ads as a gentle fti- 
mulating eccoprotic, capable of re- 
moving, if duly continued, very ob- 
stinate obftructions. 

Some are of opinion, that the pur- 
gative virtue of aloes refides entirely 
in its refin ; but experience has Shewn, 
that the pure refin has little or no pur- 
gative quality ; and that the gummy 
part, Separated from therefinous, acts 
more powerfully than crude aloes. If 
the aloes indeed be made to undergo 
long codtion in the preparation of the 
gummy extract, its cathartic power 
will lie confidernbiy leffened, not from 
the reparation of the refin, but from 
an alteration made in the juice itfelf 
by the heat. The Strongeft vegetable 
cathartics become mild by a like treat- 
ment, without any remarkable Sepa- 
ration of their parts. Socotorine 

• . n.> formerly obferved, contains 
in >re gummy matter than the hepatic; 
anrt hence it is likewife found to purge 
more, and with greater irritation. The 
lii ;! foi t therefore is molt proper where 
a ftirmilus is required, as for promo- 
tin;;' or exciting the menftrual flux; 
W'lilft the latter is better calculated to 
Act as a -common purge. The vulne- 
rary and balfamic virtues of this juice 
i ;! de chiefly in the refin; and hence 
t . -• hepatic aloes, which is moft reli- 
1 .;.'., is found moft ferviceable in ex- 
ternal applications. 

Aloi s-Woo'd, [-'/," hchum } Lignum 
Aloes, Xy!cahes : \. There have been 
different conjectures concerning this 
plant, but no fatisl'a.&Gry account of 
i, has hitherto appeared. Authors 
dihjnguifh Several forts of agallo- 
chtim, moil of vl'hich are fttfitngcrs rd 
Europe. That which tomes to us is 
in iittie haft! ponderous pieces, of a 
\ ■''. vifh brown colour, with feveral 

P 



A M A 

black or purple veins. It has a bit- 
terifh aromatic tafte, and a fragrant 
fmell, efpecially if reduced to pow- 
der, or fet on fire. Diftilled with wa- 
ter, it affords a very flagrant eflential 
oil, but in fmall quantity : Digested 
in rectified fpirit, it yields an elegant 
tincture, which lofes nothing valuable 
in being evaporated to the consistence 
of an extract. Agallochum is at pre- 
fent of very little ufe in medicine, and 
rarely to be met with in the Shops : If 
it could be eafily procured, it bids fair 
to be a very ufeful cordial : Hoffman 
greatly recommends in this intention 
thediftilled oil and fpirituous tincture ; 
and efteems a mixture of this laft with 
tincture of Steel an excellent corrobo- 
rant. 

ALP, a name given to the bullfinch 
in fome part of England. 

ALFIN1A. This plant is a native of 
the Welt-Indies, where it naturally 
grows in moift places. It is culti- 
vated like ginger. foGlNOER, 

ALUCO, in natural history, a name 
by which fome authors call the com- 
mon white owl. 

ALVEOLUS, in natural hillory,pro- 
perly denotes one of thofe waxen cells, 
whereof the combs in bee-hives con- 
sist. .S^Bee. 

AMEL-CORN. The fame with 
Spelt, See Spelt. 
AMARANTH,orFLowERGENTLE. 
\Amarar.thuz.'\ A genus of very beauti- 
ful plants cultivated in gardens. 

There are many fpecies of this plant , 
but the three following are the prin- 
cipal generally cultivated, 1. Amarati- 
thui tricolor ', 2. Amaranthus bicoJor, ?«, 
Flower Gentle, with five Stamina, and 
very long cylindrical Spikes, commonly 
called Princes Feathers. 

The Sirft fort has been long culti- 
vated in gardens for the beauty of its 
variegated leaves, which are of three 
colours, viz. green, yellow, and led ; 
thefe are very elegantly mixed, and 
when the plants are in full vigour, the 
leaves are large, and clofely let from 
the bottom to the top of the Stalk, and 
the branches form a fort of pyramid ; 
fo that there is not a more beautif'uJ 
plant than this, when it is in its full 
luftre. 

The fecond fort has been introduced 

into the Englifn gardens much later 

than the firSt fpecies. It grows to the 

fame height with the former, and 

greatly 



A M A 



A M A 



greatly refembles it in the manner of 
of its growth : but the leaves have 
only two colours, which are obfeure 
purple, and a bright crimfon; thefe 
are fo blended as to fet off each other, 
afiijj when the plants are vigprous., 
they make a fine appearance. 

The third fort, which is a native of 
America, grows with an upright item 
above three feet high ; trie leaves and 
ftalk; are of a pale green colour ; the 
fpikes of the flowers are produced 
from the wings of the (talks, and alfo 
in clufters at the extremity cf the 
branches ; they are of a bright colour, 
hang Juwinvnuh, and feme of them 
two feet and a half Ion r. 

Thefe plants mull be fown on a hot 
bed in February, or the beginning of 
Marc'.i at fartheit ; and in about a foi t- 
night's time, if the beds be in gOi,d 
temper, the plants will life; when 
you muil prepare another bed covered 
with good, rich, light earth, about 
four finders thick. As fbon as this bed 
is in proper temper to receiyethe young 
plants, you fhould r'ail'e thecn up with 
your ringer, fo as not to bieak off the 
tender roots, and prick them into your 
new hot bed, about four inches diitant 
e^ery way, giving them a gentle water- 
ing to fettle tl.e earth to their roots ; 
but in doing this be very cautious net 
to bearybur young plants down to the 
ground by hafty watering, for they 
rarely iife again, at leaft fo as to reco- 
ver their former flrength. When your 
plants are firmly rooted, and begin 
to grow, you mult obferve to give them 
air every day, more or lefs, to prevent 
tbeir drawing up too fait, which weak- 
ens their ftems. 

In about three weeks or a month's 
time thefe plants will have grown fo 
as toitar.d in need of another hot-bed, 
which fhould be of a moderate tem- 
per, and covered with the fame rich 
;aith about fix inches thick, into which 
ihfcy fhould be removed; obferving to 
rake them up with as much earth 
about their roots as pclTible, and plant 
them feven or eight inches diitant 
s-very way, firing them feme water to 
fettle the earth about their roots : and 
keep them (haded in the heat of the 
>idy, until they have taken frefh root, 
jnd be fure to refrefh them often gently 
with water, and give them air in pro- 
portion to the heat of the weather, co- 
vering the glalfes every night with 



mats, left the cold chill your bed, and 
(top the growth of the plants. 

In the beginning of May you nm ft 
provide another hot-bed, which fhould 
be covered with a deep frame, that 
your plants may have room to grow. 
Upon this hot-bed you mutt let as 
many pots as can Hand within the 
compifs of the frame 5 thefe pots mult 
be filled with, good rich earth, Sc the ca- 
vities between each pot rilled up with 
any common earth, to prevent the heat 
of the bed from evaporating, and filling 
the bed with noxious fleams; then 
take up your plants from the former 
hot-bed, with as much earth as pafn- 
bl. about their roots, and place each 
lingle plant in the middle of one of the 
pots, hlhng the pot up with the rich 
earth, and fettle it clofe to the roots 
of the plant with your hands ; water 
them gently as before, and fhade them 
in the heat of the day from the vio- 
lence of the fun, by covering the 
glades with mats: refrefh them often 
with water, and give them plenty of 
air in the day time. 

In about three weeks more thefe 
plants will have attained aconfiderable 
(ize and ftrength, fo that you muitnow 
raife the gblTes very much in ti.e day 
time: and when the air is foft, and 
the fun is clouded, draw off the glaffes, 
and expofe them to the open air, re- 
peating it as often a> the weather will 
permit; which will harden them by 
degrees to be removed abroad into the 
places where they are to remain the 
whole fe.ifon, which fhould not be done 
till the firit week in July, when the air 
is foft, and in a gentle fiaower of rain. 

Let them be fet tint near the flicker 
of a hedge for two or three days, 
where they may be fcreened from the 
violence of the fun, and ftreng winds, 
to which they mult be inured by de- 
grees. Thefe plants, when grown to 
a good ftature, perfpire very freely, and 
mult be every day refreshed with wa- 
ter, if the weather proves hot and dry ; 
otherwife they will ftint, and never 
produce fo large leaves, as thofe which 
a:e Ikili'ully treated. 

There is another fpecies called the 
Tree Amaranth, which is directed by 
the college to be uied in medicine. 

Amaranth, \C e lqfia\ ofwhich there 
are four fpecies; one of which is the 
Ctefied Amaranth, well known by the 
nams Cockjcomb. 

They 



A M A 

They are raifed from the feeds Town 
on a hot-bed about the beginning of 
March, and afterwards managed like 
the preceding article. In the beginning 
of September the amaranths will have 
pertefted their feed, when you mult 
ielect the largeft and moit beautiful 
but lead branching plants of each kind 
for feed; remove them under fhelter 
till the feed is maturely ripened. In 
gathering the feed you mult be parti- 
cularly cautious to chufe thole feeds 
which are in the middle of (he plume, 
for though they may be few, yet they 
are far fuperior to thofe on the fide 
branches, or neck of the. plume. 

AMARANTHOIDES. Globe- 
Amaranth, \G'.mphrena^\ of wh.ch 
three fpecies are enumerated, i. The 
Globe Amaranth, with large purple 
heads ; 2. Gomphrena, with an e:ec"t 
(talk, and an uninterrupted fpike of 
flowers ; 3. Penennial Globe Ama- 
ranth, with radiated ftraw-coloured 
flowers. 

The firft grows naturally in India, 
but ha<= for many years been cultivated 
in the European gat dens. There are 
two varieties of this fort, one with fine 
bright purple heads, the other has white 
or filver heads; thefe never alter, fo 
that they <irt permanent varieties, tho' 
Jn other refpedts they differ not. If 
thefe flowers are gathered before they 
are too much faded, the/ will retain 
their beauty for feveral years : hence 
they are called E<verlafting : they are 
ufed in Portugalto adorn theirchurches 
in the winter. The feed ripens late in 
p.utumn, and the plants decay foon 
after. 

The fecond fort has much flenderer 
ftalka than the firft. but grows taller ; 
the leaves are fmiller, but of the fame 
fhape ; the flowers are fma.l and of a 
pale purple colour. 

The flowers of the third fcrt are of 
a pale ftraw colour, fo make no great 
appearance ; nor will the feeds always 
ripen in England, though the plants 
will live two or three years in a flove. 

The firft an I fecond forts are pro- 
pagated by fow'ing the feed or. a good 
hot-bed, in the beginning of March ; 
when the plants are half an inch or an 
inch high, they mult be tranfplanted 
to another hot-bed, for a month cr 
five weeks, when they mufl be re- 
moved intofmall pots, placed on ano- 
ther hot-bed and filled with light 
D 2 



A M B 

earth: when the plants have filled thefe 
pots with theirroot:>, they mufi be put 
into larger pots, that fhould he placed 
in another gentle hot-bed; this treat- 
ment will bring the plants to flower 
more early, and caufe them to grow 
larger than when they are placed 
a >.oad. In the beginning of July, the 
plants may be inured to bear the open 
air, and may loon after be removed 
and intermixed with other annual 
plants in tiie pleafu re- garden ; but it 
will be proper to keep a plant or two 
fKeltered for feed, becaufe thofe ex- 
pofed to the open air feidem produce 
g^od feeds, efpeciaily if the autumn 
proves wet or cold. 

A M I' ER-TREE, {Anihojpirnmn^. 
MdleznA Female Ambei Tree. Thefe 
plants are preferved in curious gardens, 
and may eafily he propagated by cut- 
tings (during the fummer months), 
which fhould be planted in borders of 
light earth; and in about fix weeks 
time, they fhould be taken up and 
planted in pots; and about October, 
removed into the confeivatory. Thefe 
plants mull frequently be renewed with 
cuttings, for the old ones feldom laft 
more than four years. 

Its chief beauty is its fmall ever-^ 
green leaves, which, when rubbed be- 
tween the fingers, emit a fragrance 
refembling amber. 

AMBERVALIA, a ceremony prac- 
tifed by the ancient Romans, in order 
to procure from the gods a happy har- 
velt. 

. This ceremony cor.fi.'ted of a pro- 
ce!l;;n in which the victims were con- 
dueled thrice round the corn fields be- 
fore they were facrificed. Twelve 
priefts walked at the head of the pro- 
ceffion, which confuted of all the 
1 eighbouring inhabitants, every one 
• r.ed with leaves of oak, and 
fingi ! onns in honour of Ceres, the 
g< rldefs of corn. 

AMBLE, a peculiar kind of pace, 
wherein a horfe's two lees of the fims f 

fide move at the fame time. t /e^_ *lti /n $~/ „ 

In this pace the horfe's lees move 
nearer the ground than in t'.e walk, 
and, at the f.i'Tie lime, are rr.ore ex- 
tended : hut what is mofi lingular in 
it is, that the two legsof the fame fide, 
forinftaoce, the oft hind and fore legs 
move at the fame time ; and then the 
two near legs, in making anotherftep, 
move at once; the motion being per- 
( irmed 



A M B 

formed in this a::emate manner. So 
thai the- twoiiues are alternately with- 
out fupport or any equilibrium be- 
tween the one and the other, which 
mu t neceffarily prove very fatiguing 
to the horfe. being obliged to fupport 
hi, ifelf in a forced ofcil'.ation, by the 
rapidity of a motion, in which his 
feel are fcarcely off the ground. For 
if in the ambie he ;ifted his ieet as in 
the trot, o'. even in a walk, the ofcil- 
lation would he fuch, thai he could 
not avoid failing on his fide, and it is 
only by keeping his feet very near the 
ground, and by the quick alternate 
morion, that hefupports himfeli in this 
pace, in which the hinci leg Unot only 
to move at the fane time with the fore 
leg of tne (a ne fid<% hw alfo to gain 
on it, or touch the ground a foot, or 
a foot and a half, bey. nd the fpot 
where the laftei grounded. The fur- 
ther the hind-leg txtenos beyond the 
plac where the fore-leg grounded the 
beitei the hoi I ?, and the whole 

motion is pro| (after. Thus 

the wh ile diffei nee /een the am- 
ble and the trot ccniifts in this, that 
tin «v< legs moving togerre in '.he 
latter are in a diagonal poiuio v te- 
as, in the formei . the two lega oi the 
fame fide move togeiher. 

This pace, which is very fatiguing 
to the horfe, is very eafy to the rider. 
It has not the rouglmefs of the trot, 
which is caxifed by the refinance of the 
fore-leg, a' the lifting up of the hind ; 
beciule, in the nmele, this fore-leg is 
lifted up at tfae fame time with the 
hind-leg of the fame fide; whereas in 
the trot the fore leg of the fame fide is 
at reft, and relifts the impulfe during 
the whole time that the hind-leg is in 
motion. 

They who are fkilled in horfeman- 
fhip tell us, that hoi fe . which naturally 
amble, never trot and that they area 
great deal weaker than others. Colts, 
indeed, very often move in this man- 
ner, efpecially when they exert them- 
f.ives, and are not fheng enough to 
trot or gallop. Molt g«od horfes, 
which havs been over-worked, and on 
the decline, are alfo obferved volunta- 
rily to amble, when forced to a mo- 
tion fwifter than a walk. 

Tlicamblc may. therefore, be confi- 
rlered as a defective pace, not being 
common, and natural only to a very 
lew horfes, which, in general, are 
weaker than others. Add to this, that 



A M B 

fuch amblers as feem the ftrongeft, art! 
fpoiled fooner than thofe which trot or 1 
gallop. 

There are various methods of difci- 
pline for bringing a young horfe to 
amble : fome chufe to toil him in his 
foo; pace through new ploughed fields, 
which naturally inures him to the 
flroke required in the amble ; but this 
diforderly toil is very apt to weaken, 
and fornetimes to lame a young horfe. 
Others attempt it by flopping him in 
a gallop, or trot; fo that by lofing 
both, he neceffarily ftumbles on an 
ambl" ; butthis is apt to fpoil a good 
mouth and rein, and expofes the horfe 
to the danger of an hoof-reach, or fi- 
new ftrain, by over reaching, Sec. 
Some prefer ambling by weights as the 
belt way ; and in order to this, either 
over-load the horfe with exceffive heavy 
fhoes, or fold thick pieces of lead 
about the fetlock pafterns, without 
considering that the- former are apt to 
make him interfere, or flrike fhott 
with his hind-feet ; and that the latter, 
befides that mifchief, expofe the horfe 
to incurable ltrains, ctufhing of the 
coronet, breeding of ring bones, &c. 
Oh r load the horfe with earth, lead, 
&c. which often occ.sfion a fwayingcf 
the back, cver-ftraining of the fillets, 
&c. Some end.avour to make him 
amble n hand, before they mount his 
back, by means of fome wall, fmooth 
pale;, or rail, and by checking him in 
the mouth with the biidie-hand, and 
corn fting him with a rod on the hin- 
der hoofs, and under the belly, when 
he treads falfe ; but this is very apt to 
fpoil a fpirited horfe, even before he 
can undcrftand what you would have 
him do. 

The beft method feems to confifl in 
trying with your hands, by a gentle 
and deliberate racking and thralling of 
the horfe forwards, by helping him in 
the weak part of his mouth with your 
fnaffle, which mult be fmooth, big, 
and full ; and correcting him fir it on 
one fide, then on the ether, with the 
calves of your legs, and fornetimes 
with a fpur. If you can by this means 
make him fall readily into an amble, 
though in a fhuffling and difoidcrly 
manner, much labour will be faved ; 
for that aptnefs to amble will render 
the tramel more eafy to him, and he 
will find tiic motion without Humbling 
or being- frighted. 

AMBROSIA, 



A M M 



A M M 



AMBROSIA, among ancient natu- 
ralists, a term ufed for the rough or 
crude wax, fuppofed to be the food of 
bees. 

Ambrosia. There are five fpecies 
of this plant, one is a native of the 
eaft, the other four of America, of 
which laft, one is a perennial fhrub, 
that will live feverai years, if it be 
fheitered in a common green- houte 
with myrtles, Sec. The others are only 
cultivated by the curious for the fake 
of variety. 

AMBRY, Aumbry, or Ammert, 

a pantry, cup-board, or fate, to fet 

victuals in. 

^ ^ Ambury, or Anbury, among far- 

jOv riers, denotes a tumour, waite r fwel- 

>^v ling, which is foft to the touch, and 

* g\* full of blood. It is cured by tying a 

<? -hcrfe-hair very hard about its root, and 

^ v when it falls eff drefs it with a little 



•v powdered verdigreafe to prevent a re- 
^» turn of the complaint. If it isfo litu- 
v ated that nothing can be tied about it, 
$S the beft method is to extirpate it with 
an hot iron, or to eat it off with oil 



^ 

N 

* 



of vitriol. 

AMETHYST, [Amtttyftea.'] This 
plant is a native of ttie mountains of 
Siberia. It is annual, and produces 
pretty blue flowers in [une. The feeds 
lhonld be fown as foon as ripe, in the 
fpo: where they are to remain. 

AMMAN! A, of which there are two 
fpecies; one was fent from Jamaica, 
where it naturally grows in moift 
places. Thefe mult be raiferi on a hot 
bed in the fpring, ?nd afterwards re- 
moved to another hot- bed, to bring 
them forward ; they then fhould be 
tianfplanted into pets, and placed un- 
der a frame, or in a glafs houfe, or 
ftove, to ripen their feeds, for the 
plants are too tender for the open air 
in the country, unlefs the fu'mmer 
proves very warm. 

The other grows naturally in Vir- 
ginia and Carolina. This is an annual 
plant, and may be raifed by fowing the 
feeds, on a hot-bed in the fpring, and 
afterwards removing the plants to a 
warm border. It is preferved only 
for the fake of variety, for it has no 
beauty. 

AMMONIAC,orGuM Ammoniac. 
Am noniac i-. a concrete gummy refi- 
nous juice, brought from the Eait- 
Iadies, ufually in large maffes, corn- 
poled of little lumps or tears, of a 



milky colour, but foon changing, upon 
being expoiVd to the air, ot a yeilowifb, 
hue. We h rve no certain account of 
the plant which affords this juice ; the 
feeds ufually found among the teats j 
refemble thofe of tiie umbeltiterous 
ciais. Such tears as are large, dry, 
free from tittle ftor.es, feeds, or other 
impurities, fhould be picked out and 
preferred ior internal u:e: the coarfer 
kind is purified by folution and co.a- 
ture, and then carefully infpiffating 
it; unlefs this be artfuly managed, 
the gum will lofe a confiderable deal 
ot iis effential oil: the (trained gum of 
the fhops is a grievous abufe, being a 
composition of ingredient much infe- 
rior in viitue Ammoniac has a nati- 
feous fweet tafte, followed by a bitter 
one ; and a peculiar fmell fomewhat 
like that of gaibanum, but mote grate- 
ful ; it foftens in the mouth, and 
grows of a whiter colour en being 
chewed. Thrown upen live coals, it 
burns away in flame: it is in fome 
meafure foluble in water and in vine- 
gar, with which it affumes the appear- 
ance cf milk; but the refinous prut, 
amounting to about one half, fubfides 
on (landing. Ammoniac is an ufeful 
deobftruent ; and frequently prefcribed 
for opening obftruclicns c( the abrlo- 
minal vifcera, and in hyfterical difor- 
ders occafioned by a deficiency of the 
menfirual evacuations. Itlikewifede- 
terges t h; pulmonary veffsls. and proves 
of confiderable fervice in feme kinds 
cf a flh mas, where the lungs ate op- 
preffed by vifcid phlegm : in this in- 
tention, a folution of gum ammoniac 
in vinegar of fquills proves a medicine 
of great efficacy. In long ami ordi- 
nate colics proceeding from vifcid mat- 
ter lodged in the intellir.es, this gum- 
my rciin has often produced nappy ef- 
fects, after purges and the common 
carminatives hid been ufed in vain. 
Ammoniac is molt commodioufly ex- 
hibited in the form of piiis: about a 
fcruple may be given every r.ight, or 
oftener. Externally it foftens. and ri- 
pens hard tumours; a folution of it in 
vinegar ftands tecommencied by fome 
for revolving even fchirrhous fwellings. 
AM MOM I VERI Semen, [amo- 
mi racemofi. 1 The f.-tds of the true ame- 
ntum robught from the Ealt-lndies. 
The true amomum is a round fruit, 
about the fize of a middling grape ; 
containing under a membranous cover, 
a number 



ANA 



ANA 



s number of fmall rough angular feeds, 
of a blackilh brown colour on the out- 
iide, and whit fh within : the feeds 
are lodged in three diftinft cells ; thofe 
ir, each cell are joined clofely together, 
fo as that the fruit upon being opened, 
appears to contain only three feeds. 
Ten cr twelve of thefe fruits grow to- 
gether in a clutter, and adhere, with- 
out any pedicle, to a woody ftalk about 
an irch long : each fingle fruit is fur- 
rounded by fix leaves, in form of a 
cup ; and the pai c of the ftalk void of 
frm is cloathed with leafy fcales, 1 lie 
liufks, ler.ve*, nnd items have a light 
grateful fmtil, and a mode-..rely warm 
aromatic taffe : tlie feeds freed from 
thehufks, are in both refpedts much 
flronger; their fmcll is quick and 
penetrating, their tade pungent, ap- 
proaching to that of camphor. Not- 
withstanding amomum is an elegant 
aromatic, it has long been a Stranger 
to the Shops : it is directed as an in- 
gredient in the theriaca : the college of 
Edinburgh, fubilitute to it cloves; 
that of Londcn, the feeds of a plant 
of our own growth, called Bajlard 
fine ferjley. 

AMPHIBIOUS, a term fometimes 
applied to plants, more ufually called 
aquatic. 

AMPHITHEATRE, in gardening, 
implies a temple of view, erecled on a 
rifing ground, of a femicircular figure. 

Thefe amphitheatres are formed of 
feveral forts of ever-greens, observing 
to '. lant thofe of the fhortelt growth 
-. and the tailed tree-., fuch as 
pines, tirs, cedars, &c. behind. But 
as i he modern tade in gardening ex- 
cludes regularity and ftifrnefs, amphi- 
theatres are at prefent but little ef- 
teemed. 

AMYLUM, a term given to Starch. 
See Starch. 

ANACARDIUM, theCafficwmt, or 
Acajou. This grows to a considerable 
height in its native country, which is 
the Weft-Indies ; but it is difficult to 
preferve the plants in England. 

1 he) .ire eafily raifed from the nuts, 
and a; firfl grew pretty fart, which has 
led fome people to think they wire 
hardy; but they afterwards grow 
Sourly and are very tender. One nut 
only mud lie planted in each pot, and 
they Should remain in it, for they fel- 
jdom live after being transplanted. 



The plants tnuft be conftantly kept in 
the dove, for they are too tender to live 
abroad in England even in the warmeft 
ftafon of the year, nor will they thrive 
in a common green-houfe in fummer. 
The milky juice of this tree will ftain 
linen of a deep black, which cannot be 
wafhed out again; but whether this 
has the fame property as the Eaftern 
anacardium, has not been fully afcer- 
tained ; for the infpiffated juice of that 
tree is the bed fort o<" lack which is 
ufed for Staining black in China and 
Japan. V 

Anacardium, ofMai ac aBean, 
[Anacardium.'] This is the fruit of a 
tree growing in Malabar, and other 
paits of the Eafl-Indies. It is of a 
fhining black colour, of the fhape 
of a heart flattened, about an inch 
long, terminating at one end in an 
obtufe point, and adhering by the other 
to a wrinkled ftalk. It contains, within 
two fhells, a kernel of a Sweetish tafte: 
betwixt the fhells is lodged a thick 
acrid juice. The medical virtues of 
anacardium havebeen greatly difputed: 
many have attributed to them the fa- 
culty of cornfoi ting the brain & nerves, 
fortifying the memory, quickening the 
intel ect; and hence a confection made- 
from them has been dignified with the 
title of con fetllo fafier.tum s others think 
it better defer ves the name of covfcei'io 
fiuhorum, and mention instances of its 
continued ufe having rendered people 
maniacal. But the kernel of anacar- 
dium io not different in quality from 
that of almonds. The ill effects at- 
tributed to this fruit belong only to the 
juice contained betwixt the kernels, 
whole acrimony is fo great, that it is 
employed by the Indians as a cauflic. 
This juice is recommended externally 
for tetters, freckles, and other cutane- 
ous deformities; which it effectually . 
rem >vcs by exulcerating the part, fo i 
tli. it a new Skin comes underneath, 
Geoffroy cautions women to abstain 
from this cefmetic during menstrua- 
tion; and aflwres us, that he has Seen 
eryfipylas's b:eak out over the whole 
face, from making ufe of it at that pe- 
riod. 

ANANAS. ScsPmt. Apple. 

AN ATO M Y of Plants. See Pl at»t. 

ANDEN.A, in old writers, fignifies * 
the fwarfhmadc in mowing hay, or as 
much 



AND 



A N E 



much ground as a man could flride over 
at once. 

ANDROMEDA. There are five 
fpecies of this plant, which have no 
Englifh name. One of the forts may 
be propagated by feeds, which fhould 
be procured from America, where it 
is known by the name of Sorrel-tree. 
It is difficult to keep in gardens, be- 
caufeit naturally grows in boggy places 
and requires a greater heat than that 
of this climate. 

All the others are very hardy p'ants, 
and delight in moid ground, and flower 
about June or July : they m.-y be in- 
creafed by taking off their fuckers and 
planting them where they are to re- 
main ; for they do not uear to be re- 
moved afterwards. 

ANDROSACE. There's no Englifh 
name for this plant, of which there 
are three fpecies. The feeds fhould be 
fown focn after they are ripe, which is 
about the end of May ; the plants re- 
quire a fhady fituation, but they are 
only preferved in botanic gardens lor 
the fake of variety. 

ANELE, or Anil, in cur old sta- 
tutes, names ufed for indigo. See In- 
bioo. 

ANEMONE, the Wind fewer, vul- 
garly called Emcny. Mr. Miller enu- 
merates fix fpecies of this flower, viz. 
i. Wild Anemone, with a large white 
flower j 2. Wild or Wood Anemone, 
with a large flower; 3. Wood Ane- 
mone, with a blue flower; 4. A fn.all 
white flowering Virginia Anemone : 
5. Narrow-leaved Anemone, with a 
Jingle flower ; 6. Broad-leave, 
Anemone. 

The beil fort of thefe flowers are 
natives of the Eaft, from whence t'ne 
roots were I rought originally; but 
have been fo greatly improved by cul- 
ture, as to render them fome- cf the 
chief ornaments ot our gardens in the 
fpring. The principal colours of thefe 
flowers are red, white, purple, and 
blue, and feme are finely variegated 
with red, white, and purple. There 
are many intermediate fhaclcs of thefe 
colours ; the flowers are large, and 
very double, and, when prope:!/ ma- 
naged, are extremely beauri ui. 

The ioil in which thefe flo\ ers ill 
thrive extremely, may be com; Men n 
the following manner : Take rom \ 
common or pafture land a quantity of 
untii^d or virgin earth af a light 



far.dy loom, or hazel mould, obferYi* 
ing not to take it above ten inches deep 
below the furface; and if the turf be 
taken with it the better, provided it 
has time to rot thoroughly before it is 
ufed : mix this with a third part of 
rotten cow-dung, and lay it in a heap, 
keeping it turned over at lealt once a 
month for eight or ten months, the 
better to mix it, and rot the dung and 
turf, and let it have the advantage of 
the free air. 

This earth fhould be mixed twelve 
months before it is ufed, it poilibie j 
but if you are conftrained to ufe it 
fconer, you rnuft turn it over the of- 
tener, to mellow and break the clods ; 
and obferve to rake out all the parts of 
the green fward that are not quite rot- 
ten before you u!e it; for, if fuft'ered 
to remain, they would prove prejudicial 
to the roots. 

The beginning of September is a 
proper time to prepare the beds for 
planting, when this compoft fhould be 
laid, at leaft, two feet and a half 
thick; and in the bottom there fhould 
be about four c. live inches o{ rotten 
cow-durg, or the rotten dung of an 
tul melon or cucumber-bed, fo that 
you muft take cut the former foil of 
the beds to mike rccm for it. Your 
earth fhould be laid in the beds at ieaft, 
a fortnight or three weeks before you 
plant the roots, that it may fettle pio- 
ptriy. 

The beft feafen for planting thefe 
roots, it for forward ilowers, is about 
the latter end of September, and ier 
thoie ot a middle feafon, any time in 
October ; t ut obferve to perform this 
work if poilibie, at, 01 near the time 
of fome gentle fhowers ; jor il you 
fhould plant ;hem,' : :ui lie ground is 
perfectly dry, and no rain fhould fall 
for three weeks cr a month a;u the 
roots will be apt to grow mouldy e, i 
the crown ; and if once they pet this 
diftemper, they feldom come to good 
after. The roots fhculd be plante 1 
about three inches deep, with the ce 
uppermost, and ^bout fix inches alu ri- 
der. 

Towards the latter end of June the 
leaves of you; firft blown roots will 
begin to dec.iy ; foon alter which you 
muft take them tut of the ground, 
clearing them trom decayed ftalks, and 
waffling them to clean the eari tn 

the roots: then fpread them u, .m a 
nut. 



A N G 



A N 1 



mat. In a dry fhady place, till they are 
perfectly dried, when you may put 
them up in ba?s, and hang them out 
of the reach 01 m.ce, or other vermin, 
which will deftroy many of the roots 
if they come at them. 

ANGELICA. There are five fpe- 
cies of this plant, hut the Common Gar- 
den Angelica is molfiy cultivated, the 
others being of noufeand lime beauty, 
except for variety in botanic gardens. 

Angelica is a native of Lapland and 
othei northern countries, & is cultivated 
in gardens for medicinal ules, and alio 
for nuking a tweet-meat, which ib by 
fome greatly efteemed. It loves a verj 
moift fcilj and the feeds fhould be 
fown foi n after they are ripe. They 
will flower the (econd year; but if 
you wifh to continue the roots, you 
mud cut down the ftems, for if they 
ftand for feed, their roots will loon 
after psrifh. 

The London gardeners, who have 
fmall rivulets running through their 
gardens, raife large quantities of this 
plant for the confectioners ; theftalks 
are cut while they are tender, com- 
monly in May. 

Garden-Angelica ; the roots, 
leaves, and feeds. This is a large um- 
belliferous plant, growing fpontanc- 
oufly in tl>e northern climates : for 
the ufe of thefhops, it is cultivated in 
parriens, in the different parts of Eu- 
rope: Bohemia and Spain are faid to 
produce the beft; thecollegedirecl the 
roots brought from Spain to be alone 
marie ufe of. Angelica roots are apt 
to grow mouldy, and be preyed upon 
by In/elts, unlets thoroughly dried. kept 
in a dry place, and frequently aired: 
we apprehend tharthe roots which are 
-fubject to this inconvenience, might 
be preferved by dipping them in boil- 
) .' i iiit, or expofmg them to its 
1 learn, after they are dried. 

All the part:, of angelica, efpecially 
'■ - it, have a fragrant fweet fmell, 
and a pleafam bitterifh warm tafte, 
glowing upon the lips and paiat< for a 
■ ..;■•■ • , have been c! ! 

1 he i ivourof the feeds and leaves is 
very perifhable, particularly that of 
sr, which on being barely dried, 
lofis the greateft part of their tafte and 
hi -fjl : the rents are more tenacious of 
their flavour, though even ihcfe kfe 
part of it upon keeping. The frefh 
loot, wounded party in the fprmg, 



weeps an unctuous, odorous, yellow 
juice, which flowly exficcated, proves 
an elegant aromatic gummy refin, very 
rich in the virtues of the angelica. On 
drying the root, this juice concretes 
into diflinft moleculse, which on cut- 
ting it longitudinally, appear diftri- 
buted in little veins : in this ftate, they 
are readily extracted by pure fpirit, 
but not by watery liquors. Angelica 
is one of the moft elegant aromatics 
of European growth, though little re- 
garded in the prefent practice. The 
loot, which is the moft efficacious 
part, is rarely met with in prefcrip- 
tions, and doss not enter any 'officinal 
compohtion. Some of the diftilled 
waters owe their pleafantnefs to the 
leaves and feeds. The ftalks make an 
agreeable fweetmeat. 
" ANCJELOT, a fort of fmall cheefe 
generally made in the form of an heart, 
at the county of Boay in Normandy ; 
it is very fat, and of an exquiiite 
tafte. 

ANGLING, among fportfmen, the 
art of fifhing with a rod, to which are 
fitted a line, hook, and bait. 

It would be impoffible (in any rea- 
fonable com^afs allowed ior this work) 
even to abridge the neoeffary rules laid 
down by thofe who have profefTedly 
treated of this art; we mult therefore 
refer the curious xoBrtnvne' s,ox Brookes\ t 
&C Art of Angling. 

ANGORA Goat. See Goat. 

ANIMA, the foul or principle of 
life in animals; in a lefs proper fenfe 
it is ufed for the principle of vegetation, 
in plants. 

ANIMAL, in natural hiftory, an 
organized and living body, which is 
alfo endowed withfenfation; thus ani- 
mal? are faid to grow cr increafe. 
plants to grow and live ; but animal* 
alo::e to have feni'ation. 

Animals are either aerial, terreftrial, 
aqu itic, or amphibious. 

Aerial animals are thofe which have 
wings, with which they can fupport 
themfelves in the air, as birds, and 
flics, &c. Terreftrial, are thofe whofe 
only place of reft is upon the earth. 
Aqtranc, are ihofe whofe conftant 
is in the water; and v-e call 
thefe Amphibious, which live fictly 
in the air upon the earth, and yet 
are obferved to live long in the water, 
as if they were natural inhabitants of 
that element, as t!.t one iver. ,Vc. 

ANIMALCULE, 



A N J 



A N J 



ANIMALCULE, a v ery minute a- 
njrnal, fcancely, it at all, vilibletothe 
Makcd eye. 

Animalcules, though fo very minute 
as to he feen diltmdfly only by the 
micrdfcope, are valtly more numerous 
than any other part of the animal cre- 
ation. They have been difcovered in 
molt iiquors, in feveral of the chaly- 
beat waters, as well as in common 
water; in oats, bailey, whe-t, peas, 
fruit, &c. and in the puftules of the 
itch, which diforder they in lacl con- 
Ititute; hence the cure is ealily point- 
ed out and afcertalned, viz. by oint- 
ments made with fulphur* or mercury; 
the former is the molt certain, and, if 
rightly ufed, infallible; mercury is not 
fo certain, becaule it mull touch every 
puffule, or the cure will not be com- 
plete, and how dangerous this is irt 
fome cenftitutions we need not oh- 
lerve. Sulphur, or brimftone, infal- 
libly fuffocates the animalcules by its 
noxious fteam, which is railed by the 
heat of the body. 

ANIME, a refin exfuding from the 
trunk of a large American tree, called 
by Pifo, jetaiba, but by the lndfuns, 
tcurbor'il. 

This refin is of a tranfparent amber 
colour, a light agreeable fmell, ard 
littic or no taile. it dillolves entirely, 
but not very readily, in rectified fpirit; 
the impurities, which are often in large 
quantity, remaining behind. The Bra- 
zilians are faid to employ anime in fu- 
migations for pains and ache^ proceed- 
ing from a cold caufe ; with us it is 
rarely if ever made ufe of for medici- 
nal purpofes ; it is however fometimes 
ufed in making varnifhes. 

ANJOU CABBAGE-SHRUB, an 
excellent vegetable both for the kitchen 
and the food of cattle, cultivated with 
great fuccefi in fcveial provinces of 
France ; and that ingenious hulband- 
man, the Marquis of Turbilly, lately 
lent a parcel of the feeds to cur Society 
for the encourafremt fit of arts, &C who 
very readily diftributed them to fuch 
gentlemen as applied to them for that 
purpofe, in order to their being culti- 
vated here; fo that chere is reafon to 
hope, thaf this ufeful plant will fowl 
become common in England. The 
following im1tu<fiions are given by 
the Marquis foi cultivating the Anjou 
Cabbage. 

The great Anjou cabbage is ene 



- 



7 



cf the moft ufeful leguminous plants 
for country people, it will grow in 
almo.'t any foil, not excepting even 
the mofi indifferent, provided it be 
fjiiiciemly dunged. It is but little 
known about Paris, and in many ci- 
ther places, where it might be culti- 
vated togieat advantage. 

The feeds of this cabbage are 
commonly fown in June, in a quarter 
of good mould, in the kitchen garden, 
and wateredjrom time to time in cafe 
ol dpi tight. The plants will rife pretty 
fpeedily, ard fhould be thinned foon 
alter, wherever they lland too thick. 
The Kext care is to keep them free / ' U '07 
from weeds whiiit they continue, by 
hoeing the ground between them. A- 
bout the fiiit of November, they fhould 
be tranfplanted into the field where 
they are to remain. They fhould be 
planted there in trenches dug with a 
fpade, pretty deepj that is, they fhould 
be buried almolt up to the leaves. 
The dillance between them fhould be 
two feet, or two feet and a hal f every 
way, according to the goodntfs of the 
foil. Particular care fhould be taken 
never to plant them with a dibble, as 
gardeners plant other forts of cabbages. 
A layer of dung fhould be fpread along 
the bottom ot the trench, and the 
roots of the tranfplanted cabbages co- 
vered therewith. The mould taken 
out fhould then be returned back upon 
the dung; and as the trench will then 
no longer held it all, there will remain 
a ridge between each row of cabbages. 

Towards the middle of May en- 
fuing, the ground fhould be well ftir- 
red between the plants, with a fpade, 
or fome ether propter inltrument, and 
its whole furface laid quite level. Af- 
ter this, nothing more remains to be 
dene, except pulling up the weeds, 
from time to time, as they appear. 

Many hufbandmen fow the feeds 
of tliefe cabbages with thofe of hemp ; — 
and though this may not be fo fure as 
the former, it often fncceeds very well, 
efpecially in wet years. When the 
hemp is pulled up, a multitude cf lit- 
tle cabbages are feen, and which ha- 
ving then a lite air, «row apace. They 
::re trr.nfplanted about the firfi of No- 
vember in the manner before directed, 
and :.rc preferred to thofe of (he ki-t- 
chen garden, becaufe they are not fo 
apt to run up to feed the next fprinjfj ^ 
an accident which fometlrr.es happens 
t ce 



00 ~- 



AN) 

to a few of thefe cabbages, in certain 
years ; and it then becomes neceflary 
to replace them by others which hive 
not run up, and which are referred 
tor tiiib puiuofe in a feparate fpot of 
ground. 

Several farmers ufe a plough to 
cut the trench for tranfplanting thefe 
cabbages : but then they do not re- 
move them till the fpring, leaving 
them, in the mean time, in the place 
where they were fown. They after- 
wards give the earth a ftirring with a 
fpade, and lay it fmocth towaids the 
end of May, in the manner before di- 
rected. Whole fields of thefe cabbages 
may be feen on many farms in Anjcu 
and Poitou, and Which prove a very 
ufeful rcfource. 

In the month of June, fnch of 
thefe cabbages as are already large) 
and do not turn in their leaves for cab- 
baging, but ftill continue green, be- 
gin to be fit for ufe, and foon aiife at 
their full perfection, which they retain 
till the next fpring, when they begin 
to run up, and afterwards bloffom. 
Their feeds ripen towards the end of 
July, and what is intended for fowing 
fhould be then gathered. 

In Anjou, when thefe cabbages 
are entirely njn up, they generally 
grow to the height of feven or eight 
feet : fometimes they reach to eight 
feet and a half, or nine feet ; nay, fome 
have even been feet: of a greater height. 

From the raprtth of June, when 
theft cabbages be^'in to be f.t for ufe, 
their leaves are gathered from time to 
time, and they fhoot out again. They 
are large, excellent food, and fo tender 
that they are drefTed with a moment's 
boiling. They never eccafion any fla- 
tulencies or uneafincfs in the ftomach; 
and are alfo very good food for cattle, 
which eat them greedily. They like- 
wife greatly increafe the milk of cows. 

Such are the propeities of this 
kind of cabbage, greatly efteemed in 
Anjou, Poitou, Britany, Le Maine, and 
fome other neighbouring provinces. 
In Anjou, farmers are bound by their 
ieafes to plant yearly a certain number 
of thefe cabbages, and to leave a cer- 
tain number of them ftanding when 
they quit their farms. 

This cabbage forms a kind of 
fhrub, the great utility of which may 
te gathered from this, that its leaves 
aft«rd nourifhoiertt to men and cattle; 



A N I 

and its ftalk, which is about the thick- 
nefs of one's wrifl, is ufed, when dry, 
for fuel. 

It fometimes happens in extremely 
fevere winters, that fome of thefe cab- 
bages are frozen ; and this, in the a- 
bove provinces, is confidered as a very 
great lofs ; but this accident is rare, 
becaufe this kind of cabbage refills 
frofls better than moft others. 

The ground where thefe cabbages 
are planted fhould be fenced in very 
carefully by hedges or ditches, to pre- 
ferveit from the depredations of cat- 
tle, which are extremely fond of them. 
With this precaution I have made fe- 
veral plantations of them, near the 
houfes erecled in themidft of the heaths 
and commons I have broken up and 
improved ; and they have fucceeded 
very well, though the foil is but in- 
different in many places. 

I have, near my houfe in Anjou, 
two well inclofed fields, deflined for 
this fort of plantation. They are 
planted alternately every year with 
young cabbages. When thefe are pul- 
led up, after they have feeded in the 
fecend year, at the time already men- 
tioned, the ground where they ilood 
is dug up, and fowed with peafe or - 
beans, the crop of which being taken 
off before the firft of November, makes 
room for planting new cabbages at the 
proper feafon. The foil is loofened 
and enriched by the peafe and beans, 
ant! by this means the land is never 
refled ; nor is ever exhauited, becauite 
it is dunged whenever the cabbages 
are planted. 

Thefe cabbages are of fuch ex- 
cellent fervice to me, that I have of- 
ten wondered at their not being culti- 
vated in all the different countries of 
Europe. I believe they would fucceed 
every where, and I advife all hufband- 
men to make plantations of them. 

I wifh that this fhort memoir, 
founded on my own experience, may 
contribute to extend the culture of 
this ufeful plant. 

ANISE, [Pbnpinelia] is an annu- 
al plant, which grows naturally in 
Egypt, but is cultivated in Malta and 
Spain, from which countries the feeds 
are annually brought to England. 

The feeds fhould be fown the be- 
ginning of April upon a warm border, 
where the plants are to remain ; when 
they come up they fhould be thinned 

and 



ANN 



ANN 



and kept clean from weeds, which is 
all the culture this plant requires, but 
it is too tender to be cultivated in Eng- 
land for profit. 

ANISEED, [Jnifum.] The feeds 
have an aromatic frnell, and a plea- 
fant warm tafte, accompanied with a 
degree of fweetnefs. Water extracts 
very little of their flavour; reclined 
fp'trit the whole. Thefe feeds ate in 
the number of the four great-jr hot 
feeds : their principal ufe is in cold 
flatulent diforders, where tenacious 
phlegm abounds, and in the gripes to 
which young children are fubject. Fre- 
derick Hoffman ftrongly recommends 
them in weaknefs of the ftomach, di- 
arrhoeas, and for flrengthening the tone 
of the vifcera in general ; and thinks 
they well deferve the appellation given 
them by Helmont, inteflinoium fo.'amcn. 

ANN ALES, yearlings, 01 young cat- 
tle of the firft year. 

ANN ATTO, Jmotto, or Roiou Shrub, 
(as the Indians call it) grows plenti- 
fully in feveral parts of South-Ameri- 
ca. It is a woody plant, ufu illy about 
nine feet high, and bears ^reenilh-yel- 
low flowers ; thefe are fucceeded by 
conical pods containing the feeds, 
which, when ripe, arc of a beautiful 
crimfon colour. From the pellicles of 
thefe feeds is prepared the true annat- 
to : it is alfo called Orlean and Rocou. 
Some of the venders of cheefe-colour- 
ing being unacquainted with the In- 
dian name Rocou, boaft of their having 
the true Rock annatto. It is poffibie 
indeed that indigo and annatto, from 
their fometimes having the appear- 
ance .of broken fragments of a rock, 
may have been called Ro ck Indigo, Sec. 

Its preparation is various : The In- 
dians (who mortly cultivate the plant) 
macerate the feeds in lemon juice in 
which a fpecies of gum has been dif- 
folved ; this yields the celebrated crim- 
fon paint with which they adorn their 
bodies. 

Others rub the feeds upon the palms 
of their hands previoufly oiled, tiJl the 
fine red film is peeled off, and thus 
obtain atranfparenty«f.\s little inferior 
to carmine. It is commonly obferved 
that Indian lake does not mix well 
with watgr, but diflblves in fpirit, and 
becomes wholly tranfparent in oil. 

Others again rub the i'eeds againft 
the fide of a bafon, in which is a fuita- 
Wie quantity of water; the colouring 



particles fubfide, and are afterwards 
flrained : this is excefliveiy tedious. 

The molt common method to ob- 
tain annatto in any considerable quan- 
tity, is by fteeping the feeds for fome. 
time in water, and then pounding 
them till they are left white. The li- 
quor ftrained through cane fieves and 
boiled, throws up a red fcum, which 
is taken off and afterwards boiled down 
and formed into balls while it is foft : 
this is the fort that we import from 
Spain. 

Good Annatto is moderately hard, 
and of a pretty deep but dull red, and 
fometimes verges tothefaffron colour. 
It diffolves in rectified fpirits, to 
which it communicates an high o- 
range : hence its ufe in varnifhes. Wa- 
ter acts very languidly upon it, as in- 
deed from the manner of its prepara- 
tion it is not podibie it mould diffolve 
in a fimple aqueous menftruum. With 
the addition of pot-afhes, however, it 
readily dilfolves without altering its 
colour. Wool or filk boiled in the fo- 
lution receives a deep but perifhable 
dye. Some of the chymilts affert too 
much when they tell us, that acids 
turn all vegetable blue and purple co- 
lours red ; and on the other hand, that 
alkalies change the vegetable red co- 
lours to a violet or purple ; for indigo 
is an exception to the former, and 
annatto to the latter. 

Annatto has its ufe in painting, and 
an orange lake inferior to nothing for 
beauty may be prepared from it by 
boiling the annatto with pearl-afhes, 
and then precipitating the colour : but 
then it is extremely apt to fly. 

Its moft prevailing ufe is to colour 
cheefe, for which purpofe it is admi- 
rably adapted, infomuch that no at- 
tempt to invent a fubftitute for it haj 
yet perfectly fucceeded. When a little 
genuine annatto is imported, it isfoon 
bought up, and fometimes (though 
not always) it is mixed up in a ihams- 
lefs manner into what is called cheeje- 
cqlouring, which the farmers to their 
coft too often experience. Some of 
them little think that they give a (hil- 
ling an ounce to ragged fellows (who 
hawk it about) for old bricks ground 
to powder, mixed up with ftarch, and 
perhaps a little flig armatto, and then 
coloured yellowifh with turmeric. — 
This caution, which is founded on 
facts, is given to prevent their being 
E 2 thus 



A N N 



ANT 



thus impofed on in future, and to re- 
commend their applying to perfons of 
credit. 

It may not be amifs to inform thofe 
who have not feen it ufed in dairies, 
that the annatto is dipped in the milk, 
and then rubbed againit afinooth hard 
ftone till the milk is of a reddifh orange 
colour, which will be more or lefs 
bright according to the goodncfs of the 
annatto, or colouring. 

AN NATS, [Annates] a law term 
for the Srfi fruits, to called, becaufe they 
are paid after one year's profits. 

ANNUALS. Thole plants are faid 
to be annual which continue one year 
only ; orfueh asfpring up, ripen their 
feed, and peiifh in that fpace of time. 
Tkius wheat, bailey, oats, beans, peal'c, 
&c. are annual plants. 

Annual Msadoiv-grafs, called in 
fome parts of England, Suffolk-grafs, 
k fpe'eies of very beautiful grafs, ma- 
king the fineft turfs, and fcems parti- 
cularly well adapted to dairy farms. 

" 1 have, fays Mr. Stiilingfleet, feen 
whole fields cf it in High Suffolk, 
without any mixture of other grades ; 
and as fome of the belt f-dt butter we 
have in London cornea from thac coun- 
try, it is molt likely to be the belt 
grafs for the dairy." Ke adds, <■' that 
he obferved, upon Mclvern-hill, a walk 
made there for the convenience of the 
water drinkers, which was, in many 
places, covered over with this grafs, 
m let's than -a year, though he could 
not find a lingle plant of it befides in 
any other pari of the Mil. This was 
doubtlefs owing to the frequent tread- 
ing, which has the greateft tendency 
to make this grafs flourifh ; and there- 
fore it is very evident, that rolling mu ft 
be very fet viewable to it. As the flow- 
ers and Items of this plant do net grow 
brown fo foon as thofe of o*hergra;fes, 
nor cover the radical leaves fo much, 
becaufe they are confiderably fhorter, 
this affords a more pleafing turf than 
any other grafs." 

Mr. Ray obferves of the common 
meadow grafs, that it is a (lender and 
fucculent plant, very agreeable to cat- 
tle, and alattenerof them ; that it de- 
lights in a rich foil ; and that it is not 
injured by being trodden underfoot, 
and therefore is commonly found along 
the fides of paths and roads. It fpin- 
- Hies and ears in the fpring, and conti- 
nues to (hoot during the whole fum- 
mer. ' 



Annual Poa-grafs. See Toa-gray.. 

ANNLTTY, an yearly income ari- 
fing from money, &c. lor either a term 
of years, or upon a life, or for ever, 
frequently paid out of an e.tate. 

ANNULLING, a term fometimes 
ufed for cancelling or miking void a 
deed, leafe, covenant, or the like. 

ANNUNCIATION, the tinings 
brought by the an?el Gabriel to the 
bleffed Virgin Mary of the incarnation 
of Chrift, commonly called Lady-Day, 
being one of tile tour quarter-days 
ufually rixed for the payment of rent. 

ANT, or Pifmite, [Fm-mica] a well- 
known infect, much celebrated for its 
induftry and ceconomy. 

Ants are very injurious both to paf- 
ture lands and gardens; in the former 
by throwing up hills, and in the lat- 
ter by feeding on the fruit, Sec. 

The !:ght of ants is really very in- 
ftru<ftive. They are a little people u- 
nited, like the bees, in a republic, go- 
verned by its own laws and politics. 
They have a kind of oblong city, di- 
vided into various Itreets, that termi- 
nate at different magazines. Some of 
the ants confolidate the earth, and pre- 
vent its falling in, by a furface of g!u« 
with which they ir.cruft it. Thofe 
which we commonly fee, a.na r s feve- 
ral fplinters of wood, which they draw 
over the tops of their itreets, and ufe 
them as rafters to fuftain the rool , 
and acrofs thefe they lay another rank 
of fplinters, and cover them with a 
heap of dry rufhes, grafs, and !' r jr, 
which th-y raife with a double flope, 
to turn tiie current of the water from 
their magazines; feme of which ate 
appropriated to receive their provffi- 
ons, and in the others they depofit 
their eggs, and the worms that pro- 
ceed from them. 

As to their provifions, they take up 
with every thing eatable; and are in- 
defatigable in bringing home their Rip- 
plies. You may fee one loaded with 
the kernel of fome fruit, another bends 
under tiie weight of a dead gnat, 
Sometimes feveral of them are at work 
on the carcafe of a May-fly, or fome 
other infect. What cannot be remo- 
ved they cat on the fpot. and carry 
home all .that is capable of being 
prefe'ved. The whole fociety is tret 
permitted to make excurfions at ran- 
dom : fome are detached as fcouts, 
to get intelligence; and,, according 



ANT 

to the tidings they bring, all the com- 
munity are upon the march, either to 
attack a ripe pear, a cake of fugar, or 
ajar of fweet-meati ; and, in order 
to come to this jar, they leave the gar- 
den, and afcend the houfe ; there they 
find this mine of fugar, this rich Peru 
of fweets, tnat opens all its treafures 
to their view. But their march to it, 
■as well as their return from it, is un- 
der fome regulation : the whole band 
*s ordered to affemble :md move in the 
fame track; but '.he injunction is not 
executed with much feveriry, and they 
have liberty to expatiate when they 
have an opportunity to faring any 
game in the country. The green ver- 
min that make an infinite watte a- 
mong flowers, and cockle the leaves 
of the peach and pear trees, are fur- 
rounded wit!) a glue, or kind of ho- 
ney, which is fought for by the ants 
with gre3t avidity. 

The ants, after they have parted the 
fummer in a conftant employment and 
fatigue, ffi tit themfelves up in the win- 
ter; and enjoy the fruits of their labour 
jn peace; however, it is probable, 
they eat but little in that feafon, and 
are either benumbed, or buried in deep, 
like a multitude of ether infects ; and 
therefore their induftry in (toring up 
proviiions is not fo much intended to 
guard againrt the winter, as to provide, 
during the harveft, a necelTary fufte- 
nance for their young. They .nouiiih 
them, as foon as they leave the eg<, 
with an aiTiduity that employs the 
whole nation ; and the care of their 
little progeny is efteemed a matter of 
importance to all the ttare. 

When their young quit the eg?, they 
are little worm-, no longer than com- 
mon grains of fand, and after they 
have for fome rime received their ali- 
ment, which is bi ought to them in 
common, and dillributed in equal pro- 
portions, they fpin a thtead, and wrap 
themfelves up in a white web, and 
fometimes }p me tint is yellow ; at 
which period they ceafe to eat^ and be- 
come auiclias. In this ftate, fome 
people fancy they are the eggs of an", 
when in reality they are the nymphs, 
out of whefe ruins new pifmires are to 
rife. Though theycurg difcontiritie 
their eating, their nurture ".ill proves 
very fatiguing to their parents. Thtfe 
have generally fevera! apartments, and 
remove their young from the nurfery 
to fome other manlicn they intend to 



ANT 

people. They either riife the aureliaj 
towards the forface of the earth, or 
fink them to a dittance from it, in pio- 
portion as tlie feafon is either warm or 
cold,rainyordry. They raifethem when 
the weather proves ferene, or when 
a long drought is fucceeded by gent'e 
dews; but, at the approach of night 
and coid, or the appearance of fhow- 
ers, they clafp their beloved charge in. 
their arms, and defcend with them to 
fuch a depth, that one mu't then di~ 
above afoot into the earth before thote 
aurelias can be difcovered. 

If a moufe, frog, or other like ani- 
mal, be placed in an ant-hill, he will 
be devoured, in a few days, to the 
bones and ligaments. Hence we are 
furnifhfd with a method of obtaining; 
fkeletcnj of thofe animals, exquifneiy 
beautiful and perfect, far furpalTing 
any thing that can be executed by ar- 
tificial anatomy. The fubjetl is for 
this purpofeto be inciofed in a wooden 
box, and properly diftended, to pre- 
vent the parts trom collapfing or being 
cruihed together by the earth. The 
box is to be perforated with a number 
of holts, through which the infccls 
will prefently find their way. 

The great ant is extremely fond of 
the fugar cane. In fome of our Wefi- 
India iflands they are incredibly nu- 
merous and voracious, infomuch that 
large premiums are offered for a cer- 
tain method to deftroy them. Whet: 
large fires have been kindkd for this 
purpofe, the ants will, by a kind cf 
natural initin<fr, gather r< und the me 
in great numbers, and extinguish it. 
Incredible as this may feem, the fact 
is well attefled. 

Thefe infecls and their eggs are at 
prefent of no ufe with us in medicine, 
though formerly much ceiebrated for 
aphrodiliac virtues, and I. ill employed 
in the aqtus lr.agnanimitatix a::d other 
like competitions of foieign difper.fn- 
tories. It is remarkable, that thefe 
animals contain a truly acid juice, 
which they fht-d in fmail drops upon 
being irritated : by infuiing a quan- 
tity of live and vigorous ants in water, 
an acid liquor is obtained nearly as 
(tiong as good vinegar-. Neuman ob- 
serves, that on difliliing them cither 
with water or pure fpirit, a clear lim- 
pid oil arifes, which has fence any 
tafte. or at ]e S ft \% not hot or pungent 
like the efTential oils of vegetables. 

ANT-fif/A, 



ANT 



ANT 



A-XT'HMs, the habitations of the 
ants, conluling of little eminences, 
compofed of fmall particles of fand, 
lightly and artfully laid together. 

Thefe hills, though very convenient 
for themfelves and their own fociecies, 
are very deftru&ive to the farmer, de- 
priving him of as much land as the 
hills cover ; which may be often com- 
puted at a tenth p.irt, or more, of his 
valuable grafs lands. Nay, in fome 
places, where negligenr.e has fuffered 
them to multiply, almoft half of it lias 
been rendered ufelefs: the hills {land- 
ing as thick together as grafs -cocks in 
hay time : and what is moft furpri- 
« fmg, this indolerce is defended by af- 

ffft r < ' -'firming, that the area or fuperficies of 
^ ' their land is thereby increafed : where- 

as it is well known that very little 
grafs ever giows on the hills, and that 
which does grow yields a poor hungry 
food, which ne'-' ..-r flieep nor cattle 
will eat till they are forced to it ; and 
therefore, if the furface be increafed, 
the produce isproportionablydecreafed. 
The manner of deftroying them is 
to cut the hill with an half-moon from 
the top to the bottom, into three or 
four parts, according to its fize, and 
then to turn thequartersback ; the core, 
or earth is next to be cut off, and the 
turf laid down again in its place; ob- 
ferving to lay down fir ft that quarter 
of theturf which was laft turned back, 
otherwife it will not lie fo fmooth on 
account of the tool entering the hill 
in a Hoping pofition. The Half-moon 
defcribed in the Srft" number of the 
Farmer's Magazine, with a flight alte- 
ration as there mentioned, is admira- 
bly adapted to this purpofe. 

The heft time for this work is the 
— depth of winter; rain and frcils being 
fatal to thefe iniccls. Some recom- 
rn.r.d human ordure to kill or deftroy 
them ; but, fuppofing the faft, who 
can apply it ? 

If the eartli taken out of the hills 
be mixed with lime, and often turned, 
it will make a good manure. 

When thefe infefts are very nume- 
rous they are not fuddenly extermina- 
ted ; for after the hills are all laid we 
may fee that they will foon begin again 
to form new ones, which muft be a- 
gain laid ; though while they are very 
fmall they may be readily ftamped 
down by one's fyot. 



ANTHOLYZA. We have no En- 
glifh name for this plant, of which 
there are two fpecies. 

They are propagated by offsets which 
the bulbous roots fend forth in pretty 
great plenty, or by feeds which are 
fometimes perfe&ed in Europe. If 
the feeds are fown in pots foon after 
they are ripe, and the pots plunged 
into an old bed of tan which has loft 
its heat, and fhaded in hot weather, 
the plants will come up the following 
winter, when they muft be covered 
with glaffes to fcreen them from the 
cold. In fummer, after the leaves are 
decayed, the roots mould be taken up, 
and planted each in a feparate pot. 
The plants are not very tender, yet it 
will be proper to place the pots under 
a hot-bed frame. Where any damp 
arifes, it is very apt to occafion a 
mouldinefs upon their leaves. 

The roots fhoot up in Autumn, and 
the flowers begin to appear in May; 
the feeds ripen in Auguft, and foon 
after their leaves and ftalks decay. 
Thefe plants are a great ornament to 
the green-houfe when they are in flow- 
er, and as they require but little cul- 
ture, they deferve a place in every good 
garden. 

ANTHOS, is Greek for flower; but 
by way of excellency it is appropriated 
to rofemary, fo as to exprefs only its 
flowers. 

ANTICOR, a difeafe among horfes, 
confuting of a malignant fwelling in 
the breatt, which extends fometimes 
to the very fheath under the belly ; and 
is attended with a fever, great depref- 
fion and weaknefs, and a total want of 
appetite. 

The cure fhould be firft attempted 
by large repeated bleedings, to abate 
the inflammation ; emollient clyfters 
fhould be injetted twice or thrice a 
day, with an ounce offal prunella in 
each. The fwelling fhould be bathed 
with marfhmallow ointment, and an 
opening poultice, with onions boiled 
in it, fhould be daily applied over it. 
If by this method continued four or 
five days, the inflammation in the 
throat and gullet be removed, the at- 
tention fhould more particularly turn 
toencouragethe fwelling on the bread, 
and bring it, if poffible, to matter: 
let thepoultice therefore be continued, 
and give the horfe two ounces of Ve- 
rne; 



A P H 



A P O 



nice treacle, diffolved in a pintof beer, 
every night. When the fwelling is 
grown loft, it mult be opened with a 
knife, and dreffed with turpentine di- 
geftive, the danger being then over. 

But fhould it be found impractica- 
ble to bring the fwelling to matter, and 
the fwelling upwards fnould increafe 
lb as to endanger fuffocation, authors 
have advifed to pierce the humour with 
a hot pointed cautery, and drefs part 
with the turpentine digeftive, Sharp- 
ened with a fmall quantity of Spanifh 
flies and euphorbium in powder, in 
order to flimulate and promote a grea- 
ter difcharge ; and at the fame time 
fermenting and bathing tie adjacent 
parts with the ointment of manh- 
mallows. 

M. Gueriniere, as well as Soleyfel, 
have advifed opening the fkin, when 
the tumour cannot be brought to mat- 
ter, in order to introduce a piece of 
black hellebore-root fteeped in vinegar, 
and to confine it there for twenty-four 
hours; this alio is intended as a fli- 
mulant, and is faid to anfwer the in- 
tention, by occasioning fometimes a 
fwelling as big as a man's head. 

APARINE, goofe-grafs, or clivers. 
See Goose-grass, Sec. 

APKERNOUSLI, or Arhnnmf.i, a 
fpecies of pine, cr pinaiier, growing 
wild on the Alps, where one would 
think it impoffible that any tree could 
vegetate and profpen ; and therefore 
would probably thrive to greaf advan- 
tage on our bleak, barren, rocky, moun- 
tainous tracts of land. 

The timber is large, an«I has many 
vifes, efpecially within doors, or under 
cover. The branches refemble thofe 
of the pitch-trees, commonly called 
the fpruce fir : but the cones are more 
round in the middle, being of a pur- 
plifh colour, fhadedwith black. The 
bark of the trunk, cr bole of the tree, 
is not reddifh like the bark of the pine, 
but of a whitifh cz'.\, bke that of the 
fir. The huik, or fort of iheil, which 
inclofes the kernels, is eaiily cracked, 
and the kernels are covered with a 
brown fkin, which peels off: they are 
about as large as a common pea, tri- 
angular like buck-wheat, :-.nd white 
and foft as a blanched almond, of an 
oily agreeable tafte, but leaving in the 
mouth that fmall devvte of aTperity, 
which is peculiar to wild fruits, and 
is not unplealing. Thji'e kernels make 



a part fometimes in a Swifs defert; 
they fupply the place of muihroom but- 
tons in ragouts ; and are alfo recom- 
mended in confumptive cafes, on ac- 
count of their balfamicoil. 

Wainfcoting, flooring, and other joi- 
ner's work, made with the planks cf 
aphernoufli, are of a finer grain, and 
more beautifully variegated than deal, 
and the fmell of the wood is more a- 
greeable. From this tree is extiacted 
a white odoriferous refin. 

The aphernoufli is of a healthy, vi- 
gorous nature, and will bear removing 
when it is young, even in dry warm 
weather. The wood makes excellent 
firing in ftoves, ovens, and kilns j but 
is dangerous to be ufed on the hearth 
or in grates, being apt to folinter and 
fly to a confiderable distance. 

It bears fome refemblance to the 
white Canada-pine, which is better 
known in England by the name of 
Weyrnouth-pine. See Pine. 

APIARY, a bee-garden, or place 
where bees are kept. See the article Bee. 

APOPLEXY, or, as the farriers ge- 
nerally call it, ibe JJaggers, a difeafe to 
which the horfe is fubjeel, and by 
which the creature drops down fud- 
denly without fenfe or motion, except 
a working of his flanks, proceeding 
from the motion of the heart and lungs, 
which never ceafes while any fpaik of 
life remains. 

1 he previous fymptoms are drowfi- 
nefs, watry moilt eyes, fomewhac fell 
and inflamed, adifpolition to reel, fee- 
blenefs, a bad appetite, and aimofl 
continual hanging of the head, or rett- 
ing it in his inanger, fometimes with 
little or no fever, and fcarce any alte- 
ration in the dung or urine. When 
the apoplexy proceeds from wal 
lected in the finufes and ventrii it i of 
the brain, the horfe has generally, be- 
fides all the foregoing fymptoms, a dif- 
pofition to rear up, and is :>pt to fall 
back, when any one goes to handle 
him about his herd. The reafen c; his 
failing backwards feemsto be obvious, 
becaufe when the head is raifud with 
his mouth upwards, the water in the 
ventricles caufes a weight upon the 
cerebellum, or part lying under the 
brail?, 3nd origin of the nerves, fo as 
to deprive the creature of fer.fe and 
motion at once : this does not, how- 
ever, prove fuddenly mortal. Young 
horfes are mofi fubjeel to it, and, with 
proper 



A P O 



A P O 



proper helps, and good ufage, forne- 
times get over it : but when the apo- 
plexy proceeds from wounds or blows 
on the head, or fiom any other caufe 
producing ruptures in the blood- vef- 
SeJs, or from matter colkcled in the 
brain, or its membianes; or if any 
pait of the brain or its membranes be 
indurated, or grown callous, by long 
continuance, the horfe will not only 
have molt of the Symptoms already de- 
scribed, hut will be frantic by fita, es- 
pecially aiter his feeds, fo as to ftart 
and fly into motioi at every thir.g tiiat 
comes near him. Thefe cafes are ex- 
tremely danee-rous, and felriom admit 
of a perfect recovery. But when horfes 
fall down fuddenly and work violently 
at their flanks, wrthout any ability to 
life, even after plentiful bleeding, fuch 
horfes ieldom recover. 

All that can be done in fuch cafes is 
to ttrike the veini in fevera! parts at 
ence, to raife up the hcrSe's head and 
Shoulders, propping them with plenty 
of Straw; and if he furvive the fit, to 
cut fevera] rowels; though in cafe of 
ruptured vtfTcls, or if any kind of ex- 
traneous matter be lodged on the brain, 
or its membranes, all thefv helps will 
be of i.ttle fervice. 

Put if the apoplectic fit happens to 
be only the effect of a plethora, or tui- 
nefo of blood, from high- feeding, and 
want of fufficient sxercife; or if it be 
the effect of a fizy blood, which is of- 
ten tne c.ife of many young horfes, 
that have been fed for tale, or from 
catching cold whiie the blood is in this 
itare, the cure will not be attended 
with any great difficulty, notwith- 
standing a horfe, in thefe circumstan- 
ces, may reel and dagger, and Some- 
times fall down fuddenly. 

Firft of all bleed plentifully, and 
keep the horfe for fome time to an o- 
pening diet of Scalded bran, and fome- 
times fcaldcd bailey, leSTeningthequan- 
tfty of his hay. After two days repe it 
th.e bleeding, but in a Smaller degree. 
If the horfe has a cold, it will be pro- 
pel' to give him pectoral drinks, proper 
for that difotdcr. 

f.ut if im> Symptom of a cold appear 
ic will he neceffuy, after bleeding and 
a Spare diet, to give him two or three 
purges, not oniy to remove the ple- 
thora or fulnefs, but to attenuate and 
thin his blood, for which the follow- 
ing is recommended : 



" Take of the fined Socotoiine aioe*, 
an ounce and a quarter; frefh jailap, 
two drams; fait of tartar, three crams; 
native cinnabar, or the cinnabar of an- 
timony, half an ounce ; mike it into 
a bull with a fufficient quantity of Sy- 
rup of rofes or maifluualiows ; ad- 
ding twenty or thirty drops of chemi- 
cal oil oi annifjeeds, making the whole 
into a bail, rolling it in liquorice- 
powder." 

The purge may be made Stronger or 
weaker by increasing or dimimlhing 
the jalap. Let this be repeated two 
or three times, and the hoife will pro- 
ba ly recover, v> ithout a relapSe. Pow- 
der oS antimony, or its preparations, 
as the liver, the crocus maaihrum, its 
cinnabar, or the native cinnabar, mix- 
ed with equal parts of gum guiacuru, 
may be alfo given in ounce dofes, for 
three or four weeks, to mend his 
blood, and take off its fizinefs. Nor 
Should txerciSe, as Soon as the horfe is 
able to bear it, be omitted. 

When a horfe drops down Suddenly 
with hard riding, or violent driving, it 
in many refpects reSembles an apo- 
plexy, and all the organs of the head 
are arretted as tn an apoplexy ; but as 
this proceeds only from the extraordi- 
nary rarefaction of the blood, and its 
rapid motion, whereby the fmat) vef- 
fels of the brain, heart, and lungs, are 
fo extremely diftended as to caufe an 
univerfal prelTure on the origin of the 
nerves ; the horfe by this means lofes 
all fenfe and motion, and generally falls 
Suddenly, tfpecially upon any Sudden 
flop ; becaufe when the bodily motion 
ceafes, the circulation oS the blood in 
the veins is not accelerated in propor- 
tion to its influx from the arteries, 
which Soon produces a fuffocationand 
a failing down without fenfe or mo- 
tion. Inftances cf this kind are not 
uncommon, especially in very hot wea- 
ther, when the external heat adds 
greatly to the blood's motion and rare- 
faction. But as we fuppofe in this 
cafe, little or no fault in the blood, 
except, perhaps, a plethora, or weak- 
ness of the veiTels, the quickeft and 
readieft remedy is bleeding; and 
unlefs the hoife dies with the vio- 
lence of the fall, which Sometimes 
happens, or by bunting the Small vef- 
fels of the brain or lungs, or happens 
through polipufes in the heart or prin- 
cipal veins, lie will foon rife of him- 

felf, 



A P P 



A P P 



fc}{, or without much help, and may 
be preferved from fuch accidents for 
the future, by better ufage. 

We are by no means friends to auac- 
iirj, or impofture; but a very fenfi- 
ble and intelligent Farmer allures us, 
that he has with the defired fuccefs 
given the genuine Batman's Drops, in 
both the mad and fleepy Daggers, and 
that he has tecommended this medi- 
cine to his acquaintance, who have ex- 
perienced equally good effects from it 
In this dreadful difoider. The dofe is 
three fourths of a bottle in a pint of 
warm, mild ale : if it does not operate 
in fifteen minutes, put a whole bottle 
in the above quantify of ale, and re- 
peat it. The nrft dofe feldom fails of 
fuccefs j it generally throws the ani- 
mal into a profufe fweat in a few mi- 
mites, and he is ufuallyfit for bufmefs 
within twenty four hours after. 

APPENDANT. See Common^- 
pendant. 

APPETITE, a certain painful or 
uneafy ferfation, always accompanied 
with a defire to eat or drink. 

Horfes, more than molt other crea- 
tures, are fubjedt to difeafes of the 
ftomach, particularly to a want of ap- 
petite, and a vit'oftcd, or voracioui ap- 
petite. t g c Jfoj - yw?^c» 

Want of Appetite is when a horfe 
feeds poorly, and is apt to mangle his 
hay, or leave it in the rack, and at the 
fame time gathers little fieih, and his 
dung habitually foft, and is of a pale 
colour. 

Thefe are evident figns of a relaxed 
conftitution, wherein the weaknefs of 
the liomacii and guts may have a very 
great fhare. This habitual weaknefs 
may be either natural or hereditary, 
or may be caufed by fome previous ill 
management j fuch as too much fcald- 
ed bran, or too much hot meat of any 
kind, which relaxes the tone of the 
ftomach or guts, and in the end pro- 
duces a weak digeftion, and confe- 
quently a lofs of appetite. 

The heft method to harden and re- 
cover fuch horfes, is to give them 
much gentle exercife in the open air, 
efpecially in dry weather \ never to 
load their (tomachs with large feeds, 
and to keep them as much as pofhble 
to a dry diet, indulging them now and 
then with a handful of beans among 
their oats j but in cafe the horfe grows 
weak, and requires thehelp of phyfic, 



a few laxative purges like the foliiow. 
ing, mould be given : 

" Take fuccotorine aloes, fix drams ; 
rhubarb in powder, two drams j faf- 
fron dried and powdered, one dram ; 
make it into a /tiff ball, with a fuffici. 
ent quantify of fyrup of rofes, anri add 
two drams cf the elixir proprietatis, 
prepared with oil of vitriol." 

This purge will work very gentiy, 
and bring the horfe to a better appe- 
tite, and ftrengthen hi» digeftion. It 
may be repeated once a week, or once 
in ten days, and after the operation of 
each purge, 

" Take a large handful of the rafp- 
ings or (havings of guaiacum, pome- 
granate baik, and balauftines bruifed, 
of each an ounce 5 gaiangals and li- 
quorice root fliced, of each half an 
ounce : let thefe be boiled in fix quarts 
of fmith's forge- water, to three pints j 
and while it is warm, infufe in the de- 
coction two drams of faffron, and half 
an ounce of diafcordium." 

Let this be divided into two drinks, 
and give one after the purge has done 
working, and the other after two days* 
intermilTion ; in cold weather the drinks 
fhould be warmed before they are ad- 
miniftered : the fame may be compli* 
ed with after the laft purge, and re- 
peated as often as may be necefiary, 
continuing to give the horfe conftant 
exercife in the open free air ; and this 
will be the likelieft method to ftreng. 
then fuch horfes as are of weak, re- 
laxed conftitutions. 

But where fuch a habit is contracted 
by too much feeding, efpecially on hot 
fcalded diet, which is often the cafe of 
young horfes kept up forfale, the beft 
way is to bleed and purge fuch horfes, 
and at the fame time to rowel them in 
the belly ; for this fort of feeding eafily 
occasions hoifes to be lax, that have 
no natural difpofition to it j for when 
they grow fuddenly fat by fuch ma- 
nagement, the fecretions from the guts 
become greafy, which always caufes 
weaknefs and relaxation in them, and 
often forms a proper nidus for the\ 
breeding of vermin ; all which may be 
eafily remedied by purging in the firfl 
place, and afterwards by proper ex- 
ercife, and a clean diet. 

As for thofe horfes that are of a hot 
fiery difpofition, and lofe their appe- 
tites by their heat and fretting, it is a 
cafe that cannot eafily be remedied. 



A P P 



A P P 



beciufe of the ru'vral inflammatory 
tif'p l,t:on of their blood ; the only 
method i- to kt_ p therti to a wo' diet 
wftiJerh y areyeftitfg, and, in country 
plaee>, to let them run abroad, efpe- 
cially wher they have HahJeVand warm 
ra< ges, to keep them from the ine'e- 
ro ricy ol the weather in winter; for 
thefe fort ot hoi fes are always tender, 
being, t'er the mcf put, extreintly 
thin fkinned, andth;ir Wood ol a thin 
texture, and eafily put in .notion. For 
the fa.nereafon, t K e belt way, in fum- 
rner, is 10 brine hem up in the day- 
tin. t, ard on.y let them run abroad in 
the ni^ht, they heirg more hunted 
With flies thin any -flier, which keeps 
the n continually upon the fret, and 
birders them irom thriving. When 
fuch horfes live till they are lull aged, 
their heat and fieiifiefe often abate, 
fo that they giOA/ more ufeful 5 but 
while they ar; > un?, they are more 
ful }eQ to inwai d impoftumations than 
ho, fes of a cooler temper mint; and 
thee iten kill thernfu rierlv. or bring 
them into lingering consumptive ma- 
ladies, which in forfie meafure may be 
pr veijted by the (Wove method. 

Vitiated, or Voraacus Appetite, is 
that wher.- the animal is always cra- 
ving for meat, and frequently called 
foul-fe ding-. Se- Fout -1e f. din g. 

APPLE-TREE, [MJus] a well- 
known fruit nee, that needs no de- 
scription. 

Amooi-il the threat vsriety of fruit- 
trees growing in F.ngla d, the'ef.ems 
to be nore fo univerlai 1 the pple- 
tree; .0 i e the bind eithei hot and 
dry, or wtt and cold, one cr other of 
the forts will pfodute f'uit. and where 
the land is good in it* kind in very 
great quantities. 

Although the appb-"'te is fo very 
connivn in Ei gland, it i> not a proof 
tftat the tree is a native of thi-> ifland ; 
for according to the oh.erv.,tion of Sir 
William Temple, it appears, that foon 
after the cor.qaelf ot Africa, Greece; 
Afia Minor, and Syria, by the Ro- 
mms. tlur- >rere brought into Italy 
divers forts ol Ma/js, which we call ap- 
ples, and Irom thence fent into other 
parts of uiope, and propagated as 
other fruits; the crab apple perhaps 
n ay be scepted, though not vvith any 
certa.nty. 

I hree only of the foieign forts of 
apples aie much eiteemed in England, 



viz. the French rennet, the rennet* 
e/ile. and the violet app'e ; the other 
being early fruit, which do not keep 
long. Betides, their ftefii is generally 
mealy, fo that they do not defeive to 
be propagated, as we have many bet* 
Ur hints in England-. 

The firft apple which is brought to 
a' e London market is the Codlin; a 
fruit too well known to need any de- 
fcipiion. 

The next is the Margaret apple : 
this huit is not f > long as the codlin, 
and of a middle fize ; the fide next ths 
fon changes to a fair red when ripe, 
the other fide is of a pale yellow green; 
the fruit is firm, and of a quick plea- 
fant m*e, but does not keep long. 

The Summer pearmain i> an oblong 
fruit, Itriped with red next the fun ; 
the fleiT) is foft, and in a Short time 
mealy ; fo that it is not greatly ef- 
teeme.l. 

The Kentifh fill bafKet is a Species 
of codiin, of a large fize, and longer 
fhap.d than the real codlin. This rr» 
pens a little later in the feafon, and 
is generally ufed for baking, Src. 

The tianfpaient apple. This was 
brought to England about the year 
1724, and was eiteemed a curiofity : 
it came from Peterfburgh, where it is 
affirmed to be fo tranfparent, that the 
kernels may be perleclly fcen, when 
the apple is held to the light; but, in 
this country, it is a mealy infioid fruit, 
fo as not to be worth propagating. 

Loan's pearmain is a bcartil'ul fruit 
to the fight, of a middling fize ; the 
fide next the fun is of a beautiful red } 
and the other fide Striped with the fame 
colour; the fleih is vinous ; but as it 
foon grows meaiy, it is not greatly 
eiteemed. 

■ The quince-apple. This is a fmail 
fruit, feldoml tiger than the golden- 
pippin, but longer, and refembles the 
quince in fli^pe, efpeciaily towards the 
flalk ; the fide next the fun is of a 
rulTet colour, on the other fide incli- 
ning fo yellow. This is an excellent 
apple for about three weeks in Sep- 
tember, bat it will not keep much 
longer. 

The golden-rennet is a fruit fo well 
known in England, as to need no de- 
scription. This ripens about Michael- 
mas, and for about a month is a very 
good fruit, either for eating raw, or 
baking. 

The 



A P P 



A P P 



The aromatic pippin is alfo a very 
good apple. It is about the lize of a 
nonpareil, but a little longer : the fide 
next ihe fun is of a bright ruffe* co- 
lour : the fiefh is of an aromatic fla- 
vour : it ripens in October. 

TheHertfordfhirepearmain, by feme 
called the winter pearmain. This is 
a gcod fized fruit rather long th.-tn 
round, of a fine red next the fun, and 
iiriped with the fa. ne colour en the o- 
tberfide; the fitfh is juicy, and ftews 
wi.ll, but is net eileemed for eating by 
any nice palates. Jt ii fit lor ufe in 
November and December. 

The Kentifh pippin is a large hand- 
fome Iruit, o; an obler.g figure; the 
flcin is of a pale green celour ; the fk-.h 
is full of juice , which is of a quick 
acid flavour. This is a very good k t- 
chen fiuit, ardwill keep till February. 
Ihe Holland pippin is larger than 
the former j the iruit is fomevvh.it lon- 
ger, the fkin ol a datker green, and 
the fieih firm and juicy. This is a 
very gcod kitchen fruit, and will ke^p 
late in ihe feafon. 

The menftrcus rennet is a very large 
apple, of an obiong (hape, turning Fed 
towards the fun but ot a dark giten 
en the ether side; the fiefh is apt to 
be mealy, and is therefore nit tnuph 
valued by thofe who are curious, and 
only preserved for the magnitude of 
the fruit. 

The embroidered apple is a pretty 
large fruit, fomething fhaped like a 
pearm.iin ; but the ftripes of ted are 
very broad, from whence the gaideners 
have given it this title. It is a mid- 
dling fiuit, and commonly ufed as a 
kitchen apple, though there are many 
better. 

The roy; 1 ruffet, by fome calle ! the 
leather-coat luffet, on account of the 
deep ruffet colour of the fkin. This 
is a large fair fiuit, of an oblong fi- 
gure, hroad towards the bafe ; thefkfh 
is inclinable to yellow. 'I his is one 
of the belt kitchen apples we have, ar>d 
the trees are very great bearers; they 
grow large and handfome, and the 
fruit is in ufe from October to April; 
it is alfo a pleafant fruit to eat. 

V\ heelers ruffet is an apple of a 
middling hze, flat and round ; the 
fialk is flender; the fide next the fun 
of a light ruffet colour, the other fide 
inclining to a pale yellow when ripe; 
the flefli is rirm, and ;he juice bis a 



quick acid flavour; but is an excels 
lent kitchen Iruit, and will keep a long 
time. 

Hie s ruiTst i not quite fo large as 
the former, but is ot an oval figure, 
ot a ruffet colour towards ihe fun, and 
cf a r'a.k grten ( n the other tide. It 
is a ve y firm fruit of a ihaip acid 
flavour; but is much eiteencd i..r 
baking, and will keep found till Apiil 
cr later, it well prelerved. 

The nonpaicii is a fiuit putty ge- 
nerally known in England ; though, 
there is another apple ireq^ently ft id 
in thematkets feir it, which is what 
the French ca.l haute-bqnne s 1 his is a 
larger tiuit than ihe nonpareil, more 
inclining to yellow, the ruffet c< l< r 
brighter, it is earlier r.pe, and fcor:er 
acme ; it is not fo flat as the tiue 
nonpareil, noi is the juice fo Iharp, 
th( ugh it is a i cod a pule in its leafon. 
But the nonpareil is feHcm ri e be- 
fore Chtir mas, and, o.oeii well pre- 
ferved, will keefj till May perfectly 
found. This is ju: ly eflecmed one of 
the belt apples yci known. 

. he -olden-pippin is a fruit pecu- 
liar to England. There are fewecun- 
tncs abroad where this fucceeds v. cli, 
nor do ihe trees produce fo good fruit 
in ma i y parts ot England as could be 
wifhed. 1 his is m feme meafure ow- 
ing to their hem? grafted on free ltocks, 
which enlarges ihe fmir,bur renders it 
lefs valuable ; becaufe the flefh is not 
fo firm, nor the fla\our fo quick ; it 
is alfo apt to be dry and mealy. This 
thould therefore always be raited up^n 
the crab-Hock, which will nor canker 
like the others ; ami thcugh the truit 
will not be fo air to the light, yet it 
will be btttei flavoured. 

All the different forts of apples, 
which, though veiy numerous, are dif- 
tinguifhed generally into t':ofe that are 
fit for the defert, the kitchen and the 
pyder-prefs, may be propagated by 
grafting cr inoculation, though the 
latter is feldom practifed. 

1 he ltocks which they are grafted 
on rnuft be of the fame kind, for they 
will not take on any other fort of fruit- 
tree In the norieries there are three 
forts of flocks generahy ufed to graft 
apples upon ; the fi> ft arc called free- 
flocks, which are raifed Horn 'he ker- 
nels of all forts of apples indifferently, 
and thefe arc alfo by fome called crab- 
flocks; for ali thofe trees which are 
F a produced 



A P P 



A P P 



product from feeds, before they are 
grafted, are termed crabs, without any 
diftir.clion ; but fuch itocks as are rai- 
fed from the kernels of crabs preffed 
for verjuice, fhould be preferred, be- 
caufe they are never fo luxuriant in 
their growth as thofe from apple ker- 
nels, and will keep longer found ; and 
it is very certain, that by frequent 
grafting fome forts of apples upon free- 
ftocks, the fruits have been rendered 
larger, but lefs firm, poignant, and cf 
fhorter duration. 

The fecond fort of ftocks is the 
Dutch paradife apple, called the Dutch 
creeper ; thefe are deiigned to (tint the 
growth of the trees, and keep them 
within compafs fcr dwarfs, or efpa- 
liers. 

The third fort is the Paradife applr, 
which is a very low fhrub, and theie- 
fore only proper for trees which are 
kept in pots by way of curiofity, for 
thefe do not continue long. 

Mr. Hitt tells us, that the tafte of 
fruit may be much improved by pro- 
per ftocks as well as by proper foils. 
For if two nonpareil trees be planted, 
one in a wet clay foil, and the other 
in a loam properly dry, though they 
were both grafted upon one kind of 
ftock and from one and the fame 
branch, yet the fruit will be different 
both in fize and goodnefs. 

Again, if a nonpareil be grafted on 
a. paradife ftock, and another from the 
fame branch be grafted upon a crab 
ftock, and both planted in the fame 
foil and fituation, the fruit of the lat- 
ter will be four and ill-tafted if com- 
pared with the former. He adds far- 
ther, that he always found the tafte 
of the fruit fomewhat refembled the 
tafte of that fruit which the ftock 
would naturally have produced. 

Thofe ftocks for efpaliers fhould be 
preferred which the nature of the fruit 
requires. Such as produce fruit of the 
fweeteft flavour, and arefooneft apt to 
turn mealy and infipid, fhould, in or- 
der-to improve their juices, be grafted 
vpon codlin-ftocks ; and thofe whofe 
fruit yields juices of a more acid and 
rough tafte, may be improved by graf. 
tin^ them on paradife-ftocks ; fuch, 
however, as are defigned for ftand- 
ards, may b» grafted upon crab-ftocks, 
efpecially thofe forts that are ufed in 
the kitchen, which require a tarcifh 
tafte. Both paradife and eodlin ftocks 



fhould bs grafted as near the ground 
as poffible. 

Mr. Miller ohferves, that eodlin- 
ftocks always put out fuckers, (which _ 
the other forts never do) and likewife 
(hoots from the knots of the ftems, 
which, if not conftantly taken eft', 
much weaken and injure both tree and 
fruit ; and that thefe ftocks decay fooner 
than crab ftocks ; and laftly, that the 
fruit from the latter will be firmer, laft 
longer, and have a (harper flavour. 

The method of railing ftocks from 
the kernels of crabs, or apples, i«, to 
procure them where they are prelTed 
for verjuice, or cyder ; and after they 
are cleared from the pulp, they may 
be fown upon a bed of light earth, co- 
vering them over about half an inch 
thick with the fame light earth ; thefe 
kernels may be fown in November or 
December, where the ground is dry, 
but in wet ground it will be better to 
defer it till February ; but then the 
feeds muft be preferved in dry fand, 
and kept out of the reach of vermin ; 
for if mice or rats can get to them, 
they will devour the feeds : ther^ 
fhould alfo be care taken of the feed« # 
when fown, to proteel them from thefe 
vermin, by fetting traps, Sec. to take 
them. In the fpring, when the plants 
begin to appear, they mult be con- 
ftantly kept clear from weeds, which, 
if fuffeied to grow, will foon overtop 
the plants, and fpoil their growth ; if 
thefe thrive well, fome of them will 
be fit to tranfplant i.uoihenurfery the. 
Oclober following ; for the fooner 
thefe feedling plants are removed from 
the feed bed, tbe lefs danger there will 
be of their (hooting down tap-roots, 
which, in fruit-trees, fhould always 
be prevented. The ground where thefe 
young ftocks are to be planted, fhould 
be carefully digged, cleanfed from the 
roots of all bad weeds, and laid level ; 
then the ftocks fhould be planted in 
rows three feet afunder, 3nd the plants 
one foot diftant in the rows, clofing 
the earth pretty faft to their roots ; 
when the ftocks are tranfplanted out 
of the feed bed, the firft autumn after 
fowing, they mult not beheaded ; but 
of fuch as are inclined to (hoot down- 
ward, the tap-root muft be (hortened, 
in order to force out horizontal roots. 
If the ground is pretty good in which 
thefe ftocks are planted, and the weeds 
conftantly cleared away, the ftocks 

Will 



A ? ? 



A ? ? 






sjk make great probers:; fothat thoie 
which are intended for dwarfs, msy 
fee grafted the IpnrnpEwefae months af- 
ter they are plan-ted out «f the feed 
beds 4 but thofe which are defigned 
for Itanriards, will reqcnreCTyNS .orlhree 
2 ; ears more growth, before they are fit 
•to ■graft, by which time «hey will be 
upwards of .fix fee? tegk, 

The farther-management wifl 1>eoc- 
ptamed tmdei (he •proper articles, Es- 
ffjitfxa, G*ftFT?WG, Jnoci'lati- 
«k, Okkaub, P* jj k j n ~ > Sh .«..;■ r« 
/o-Tstes, £rc. 

All forts of apples feavs the com- 
roofi quality of cooling and abating 
shim 4 tlve more acid kinds locfcn the 
1 ■ e.'J y, the auftere have rather .a con- 
trary effect.. 

The he<t method to 'keep spp'tes for 
wider trie, is to iet them hang upon 
tlie wees, until ther« is danger oi frott ; 
to -gather them iti dry weather and lay 
x'r.sm in large heaps to {\veat for a 
rrroath or fix weeks ; afterwards look 
them over careSully, taking cut all 
fuch a? have appearance cf decay, wi- 
ping aB the found fruh dry, 2nd pack 
Them up <in large-oil jars, which have 
feeeivthor-ottgbly fcalded and afterwards 
thied, Hopping them demon clofe to 
srxclude the externa! air, and then place 
sheaa in a dry vault or cellar $ if this 
Is duly obferved, she fruit wiH isee;? 
•found a longtime, and their fitfh will 
be plump, for when 'Lev are e*rpofed 
*o the air, their ikir i will ftuisik end 
■fheir puilp 'grow fol't. 

ily the ftatute, the tit cf Arme,"rt is 
enacted, that the meafupe, coriir.ir.nly 
sailed water-meafure, by which zpplee 
ar.d pears are frequenTly fck!, ihall for 
she ftitwic he round and iS ir.clss and 
a half within the hoop, 2nd S inches 
deep, and io in propoiticn^ and that 
rvery rfuch tneafure by which apples or 
•pears Iha'.l be measured .1 all ! e heaped 
as tjfii.clly. -ynder the penal - . 
ihallingi, cc conviction ireiore one 
jTeflk*, or Mayer, half so the mfor- 
jrrer, and half to The poor ; but not t-a 
^extend to .the mearfurts fealed by the 
company of frokf rers in London. 

£ittir AV.TIZ.SdCl-.l ( CU1 NT ID A. 

Crai> A p p f «.. See Ca a a. 

■Cuf.srd Appl*. \jirv.na\ There 
ape eight fpecies ofithis tree, — the cuf- 
■tard-appk, four-fcp, fweet-fop, water- 
apple, cherimciias, fweet-apple, pur- 
jie apple ; North-American aanooa. cr 



p/tpww. The forts wlwcrh are r r: 
o{ tire warm pasts of America aic 1 . . • 
tender to live in this country if Bhey 
are net prefei-*ed in walrrn 1tcv.es. M 
tbefeeds aire fr.eih from America, they 
will eafily vetjetate ; but they raofl I a 
Town on a good 1i«-bed pret-ty earfj 
in tlie fpri^g^ tire plants flroi'ld bfi 
kept in the ba'k (lov-, bat 'in warm 
weather fhotiKi rave ptentyoff« 
ortheywiU be very ftfckly, ai 
after be covered with venawn, ~ 
wil!-ca4:fe the« to decay. They 
coryftarrrly remain in c'ik- tan-^ed, rm. 1 
then die leaves will appear ttct 
end beatitif»l intlie winicr fealbn. 

The frti'rt -cf the Papaw is Shaped 
like a pear Inverted ; it is eaten by«he 
Ketrroes, r-nd is the foexl of Guanas 
and cther.aninnrailsH Thc-fe plants will 
tln'rvi m the open air in Bngland ;.' 
they he planted in a warm fituation, 
tut fhrruld he fVrll trained «pwi pots 
and flickered "m the winter fortwo or 
three years, by which t'me ;' ey will 
have acquired ibsne ftrengtb, -v hen :'hc) 
may he planted in the ground where 
they are to remain : This fort Sowers 
in many pood garde- ^. 

Lave Ar»:.r, cr Tctt&tos, [Lyatpa 
]~r~-.] There are frx fptctes cf this 
plant, a'R oT-wNcfc sre propagated by 
fowingthi.;;- feids f'ti a moderate h( 1 
ted -in March ; and when the plar.ir 
are two inches high they fhedd be 
trsnfj.-! ir.ted irto snOPher moderate 
hot-bed, zrnt! fhaded till tliey have ta- 
ken root ; let « he;:! then have a Large 
ihare cf frefh air. and in May they 
fnay fee removed 4nto pots er 'borders 
n-ssr walk, piles, or hedges, -that have 
a warm afpcfr, to which their bran- 
ches fhsuld be fafiened,otherwifethey 
will trail on th.e rrour.J, and then thfi 
fruit will rvctriptr. 

■7\ '.id A 1 ? t. » . ct I g -¥-&mt s p 
get -a ] cf which there are foir fpecies . 
1. Mad apple with an obli-ng viokt- 
-coloured fruh; 2. Msd apple with s 
taper vir.lct-cclcurtd fruit ; 3. Mad 
apple ^itii ->r incur-.-; :d h' .it : 4. Ap- 
ple-bearing Nightfhade v»-jth pricklj 
lea-, es and fiuit. 

The firft fort grows naturaliy in A- 
f;a, Africa, Br.d America ; the fruit 
is oval and fkfr.y, about the fize and 
fhape of af.van'segg, cf a r. ■ : ; . - 
pie on one fide and w hire on theotl er 
There are fever-al varieties of thisfpe- 
ck? -: one with white fruit called tlie 



A ? P 



A P ? 



Egg-plant, another with yellow fruit, 
l. i another with pale r^d fruit. 

Tl e fruits 01 all the fpecies are ccm- 
moniy eaten by the inhabitants ol the 
warm pjrts of the globe, and a;o ef- 
teemed a delicacy. 

Aii the fpecies aie propagated by 
feeds, which (hould be fown upon a 
moderate hot-bed earlyin March; when 
they come up, they fhould be removed 
to another hot-i ed and wateied, and 
(haded until they tuve taken root, and 
have plenty of frem air, is the weather 
be warm, otherwife thev will draw up 
very weak : ant! they mult iikewiie 
be plentifully watered. In May, the 
plants wiil be (hong enough to iiil the 
frame, when they muftbetranf] 
into a rich fpot ol ground, where they 
rrfuft have water plentifully, till they 
ikenroot; aftec which they will 
require but little care. 

Thefe plants are only paferved as 
curioiities in Lnglim gardens, thefruit 
being feldom eaten in this country, ex- 
cept by fome Italians and Spaniards, 
wh ) lave been accuiicmed to eat them 
in their own countiics. 

Male Ba {am Apii.e, [M»nnrd'ua\ 
of which there are three fpecies, all 
animal plants, which have trailing 
/talks like the cucumber or melon. 
Their feeds mult be fown on a hot- bed 
the be inning of March, and when 
they come up they lhould be trans- 
planted into a frefh hot- bed, and af- 
terwards treated as cucumbers. 

V, ith proper management they will 

produce fit, it in July, and their feeds 

will ripen in Augult or September, 

h mufibe gathere I immediately. 

'j hefe plants are not much cultiva- 
ted, except in curious gardens, lor the 
fs 01 theirfruit. Jonie perfons 
put them in pi ts with ftakes, to which 
tl.ey are fa/tened, and then place the 
pots in ftoves ; in this manner they 
mdee a better appearance, though they 
do net thrive fo well iw produce fo 
much fruit. 

. .\prLE, or Sa>> S^p. See Cuf- 
lard A k 

t Apfle, cr Sugar Apple, 
5 ifiard Apple. 

Th-jrn Apple. [Datura'] There arc 
fix fyecies of this plant. The molt 
eomittonfori I prickly fruit, 

and a (ingle white Bower. Si 
the others require a hot-bed in the 
fpring, and afterwards to be planted 



in a warm border, or the feeds will fcJ- 
dom ripen. 

Applfs tfSoDOM, fruit whichwas 
fuppofed to grow on the banks of the 
Dead Sea, (where So om formerly 
flood) and faid to be extremely fine 
and tempting en the outride, but within 
was hill of afh.es. Mr. Maundrell has 
proved this to be a fiction. 

APPORTIONMENT, the divificn 
of a rent into parts, in the fame man- 
ner as the land out of which it iffues 
is divided. 

APPRAISER, a perfon commonly 
fworn to value or fet the price on 
goods; if he values them too high,} 
he is obliged to take them at the price 
appraifed. 

APPRENTICE, a young perfon 
that is bound for a certain number of 
years in order to learn any art, trade, 
or myflery. He mult be bound by 
deed, and the deed muft be indented, 
and he mult likewife be retained by the 
name of an apprentice cxnrefsly, o- 
therwife he is no apprentice though he 
be bound. 

An apprentice being by deed, can- 
not be difcharged but by deed ; but 
th„- ni .fier and apprentice may, by a- 
greement between themfeives, leave 
each other ; the maltcr giving leave 
under his hand, which djfeharge mult 
be confirmed by a Juftice. 

The mafter is allowed by law, with 
moderation, to chaltife his apprentice. 

With rtfpcdt to binding poor ap- 
prentices, the churchwardens and o- 
vcrfeers, by the aifent of two Juftices, 
(one of the quoium) may bind any 
fuch children whofe parents they (hall 
judge not able to maintain them, to 
be apprentices, where they (hall fee 
convenient, till the male children fhail 
come to the age of twemy-tour, and 
the females to the age of twenty-one, . 
or marriage ; and as the churchwar- 
dens and overfeers have this power, 
io they are the proper judges cf per- 
fons who are fit to be their mailers; 
and thefe are peifons, who, by their 
profeflion or manner of living, have 
occafion to keep fervants ; but then 
this i = to be approved by the Juftices, 
and if the malter is diffat:t.ried he may 
appeal to the feflions. 

The power of binding to the age of 
twenty-four feems cruel; and it is 
much to be wifhed that the pariih of- 
ficers had power granted geneidly to 

put 



rSaot 



APR 



APR 



put out poor apprentices for the term 
of fevert )':ars, or till they (hall attain 
the age of twenty-one years, and no 
longer. 

APPROACHING, in gardening. 
See G r a F t i n g by Approach. 

APPRGPRiARE com mu nam, in 
law, is to difcommon ; that is, to in- 
clofe any parcel of land that was be- 
/ore open and common. 

APPROVEMENT, is where a man 
hath common in the lord's vvafte 
ground, and the lord of the manor in- 
clofes part of the wafie for himfelf, 
leaving neverthe'.efs fufneient common 
■with egrefs and regrefs for the com- 
moner. If, however, there fhoukl 
not be fuffic>ent common left for the 
tenant, he may have a writ of alTize 
and recover triple damages: in fuch a 
cafj alfo a commoner may break down 
the inclofures. 

APRICOT-TREE, a fruit-tree 
row well known in the Engliili gar- 
dens. 

The r e are about feven varieties of 
apricots cultivated in the Englilh gar- 
dens, viz. i. The Mafculine apiicot. 
2. The Orange apricot.- 3. 1 he Al- 
gier apricot. 4. The Roman apricot. 
5. The Turkey apricot. 6. The Bre- 
da apricot. 7. The BrufTeh apricot. 

The Mafculine is the firft ripe of aU 
the apricots; it is a fmall roundifh 
fiuit, of a red colour towards the fun ; 
as it ripens the colour fades to a gree- 
niih yellow on the other fide. The 
tree is very apt to be covered with 
flowers ; but as they come out very 
early in thefpring, they are frequently 
deftroyed by the cold, uniefs the trees 
are covered to protect them. 

The Orange is the next ripe apricot ; 
this fruit is inu^h larger than the for- 
mer, and, as it ripens, changes to a 
deep yellow colour. The fleih of this 
is dry, and not high flavoured : it is 
fitter for tarts, than for the table. 

The Algier is the next in feafon ; 
this is of an oval (hape, a little com- 
preffed on the fides ; it turns to a pale 
yellow, or ft raw colour, when ripe; 
the flefhis dry, and not high flavour- 
ed : this, and what is by fome per- 
fons called the Common apricot, are 
often confounded. 

The Roman is the next ripe apri- 
cot ; this is a larger fruit tiian the for- 
mer, and not coinprefled on the lides ; 
the colour is deeper, and not fo dry as 
the former. 



The Turkey apricot is yet larger 
than either of the lormer, and of a 
globular figure; they turn to a deeper 
yellow than the former; the fldh is 
firmer, and of an higher flavour than 
either of the former. 

The B'eda apricot (as it is called 
from its being brought fom thence to 
England) was originally brought from 
Africa : this is a large, roundilh fruit, 
changing into a deep yellow, v h.n 
ripe; the fiefa is foft, full of juice, 
and of a deep orang" colour on the in- 
lide; the (tone is rounder and larger 
than that of the other forts. This is 
the bei't apricot we have; and, when 
ripened en a flandard, is preferable 10 
all other kinds. 

The BrulTels is the lateft ripe of all 
the apri.cts ; for, when it is planted 
againft a wall, it is generally the be- 
ginning of Augufl before it is ripe, 
uniefs when it is planted to a full fenth 
afpecSl ; which is what fiiould not ba 
praftifed, becaufe the fruit is never 
vvelf tailed which grows in a warm t;:- 
pofure. This fruit is of a middling 
(ize, rather inclining to an oval figure; 
red on the fide next the fun, with many 
dark fpots, and of a greenifh yellow 
on the other fide ; the fkin is firm, and 
of an high flavour; the fruit often 
cracks before it is ripe. Mr. Hitt ran- 
ges thefe differently ; he places the 
Brnffels 3d, and the Orange 4th. 

Moft people train thefe trees up to 
flems of fix or feven feet high, or bud 
them upon (locks cf that height ; but 
half Aandards, of about two and a 
half, or three feet in the Aem, fnould 
be preferred to thofe which are much 
taller. 

Thefe fruits are all propagated by 
budding them on plum flocks, and 
will readily take upon almolt any fort 
of plum, provided the flock be free 
and thriving, (except theBruffels kind, 
which is ufualiy budded on a fort of 
flock, commonly calld the St. Julian, 
which better fuits the tree, as being 
generally planted for flandards, than 
any other fort of plum will.) Mr. Hitt 
pbferves, that the flocks upon which he 
found the apricot to profper bed, and 
yield the moil palatable fruit, are the 
red wheat plums; they having a tart 
tafte, and are toleraoly free from gum 
and fuckers. The manner of railing 
the flocks, and budding thefe trees, 
are treated of under their refpective 
articles, Thefe 



A F K 



\ 



Tflefe Vices area?! (except the two 

1 againft the wall*, 

and- fliould' have ac eaft e: weft afped ; 

tor if they are planted full fomlt, [lie 
p-eatheat caufts Brrem to- be mealy he- 
fore they ?..re welt" eatable. The bor- 
der under thefe walls fliouldbe i"x ft et 
wide at leaf:, 2nd, if it wasas hoad 
as the wall is high, tfrc better j and if 
the earth be two feel deep, er two 
and 1 a half at melt, it is enough. 

If your t round is wet cold lairrr. or 
rl.-y, you f'V U-ld raafe your borders as 
much above die level of thefuriace- *s 
ft will admit. laying feme frorres- er 
r-ubbffh in ti.e bottom, to prevent the 
roots from- running: downwards-;, bar, 
ii yon plant on a. chalk or gravel-, if 
v ill be better to raise five borders to 
a proper thrcknefs with good toa-my 
earelir Chan to fink the borders by re- 
moving the chalk er gravel. 

The belt foil to be tiled, for thefe and 
ill other forts of fruit frees, is f re Hi 
em tried' earth, from a paftaro ground*, 
taken a-hout ten inches deep, with the 
eurf, and : Paid to rot and mellow at 
1-eafl twelve months before it is ufed; 
and this mu ft be kept often turned, to 
r.veeter, and imbibe; the nitrous parti- 
cles of rite ?.'.:-. 

Your borders Being rims prepared, 
make choice of fach trees as have two 
ftrongbraTKhes hefides collateral' ones: 
and if the branches have been once- 
cut down in the nuvfery and thofe parts 
v.ell healed, they ate not the warfc f 
and' the more the principal branches- 
are extended from each other, the bet- 
ter j and if your foil be dry, or of a 
Middling temper, you mould prefer 
October a c the be.fl feafon for planting-. 
Bat d'o net cut off any part of the 
head at that time, imltefs there are any 
rtrong fore.- light fhoots which will not 
come to the wall, which, may betaken 
^uite away. 

Having fixed the tree in the ground, 
nail the branches to the wall, to pre- 
vent their disking. In this ftate let it 
remain till' the middle of March, when, 
if the wearher is good, you mult vm- 
. ..ii the lirancltcs of yoar trees, fo as 
not to dilhub the roots-, and, v/jth a- 
:harp knife, cur eff the heal of the 
•Tee, ',{ it ha* but one flem, or where 
'.: rnay have two or more fboots, each 
of; them niuft be l?iortcnsd to n-boot 
^nur or five eyes above the bed, fo that 
she /Toping fide may be- towards the 
• 



In ths fpnnjr, if the weather pro??-, 
tii y, you muff, now-and-rhen, give 
yoa? tiees a gxmle refiefh-ing with 
watt? all over their head, which wili 
greatly help them ; and alfo lay fonae 
turf, or other mulch, round tii*ir roots,, 
to prtventtheir drying during the finw» 
rrvei-f<.tjbn : as new branches are unre- 
duced,, ebierve to nail them to the 
wall ; 2nd fuchfhoots as are produced) 
ibre-rigik, muft b* intiteiy riifplaced. 
This mult be repeated 33 often- as it is, 
iiecelXary, to prevent their hanging. 
from the wall; but by no means Hop 
any of their fhoot* in fummerj the 
btft rime for this- being i-n December, 
after they have fh«d their leaves. 

The fecond fummer ebferve, as in 
SrVfi firft, todifplaic-allfore-right fecote 
»» they are produced, Railing in she 
other ctofii to the wail horizontally, #©• 
that the middle of the tree stray be 
kept open ; and never fliorten any ot' 
flie fheots in fumrwer, onlefs- to fur- 
nifb branches to ii;! vacant places en 
the wall ; and never do this later than 
April. About December fhorten thofc 
fturotSy aa wa* direfted for the 6k% 
y^ar. 

The following years- management 
will be nearly the fame with this ; 
but only obfervs, that apricots pro- 
duc3 their bloffonv-buds-, not only »p- 
t<n the lair, year's wood, bat alfo taper* 
the rarfons or fpurs, which are pra- 
duced from t!>e two year's wood * 
great care ihosld therefore be had in 
the fummer management, not to h«r6 
wdtfpkce them. 

Thefe few rules-, well executed, to- 
gerlntr v;ith a litale observation and- 
care, will be furfficient ; and, to pro- 
t£nd to prefcribe pat ticuJar direifhor.s 
for all the different accidents, or man- 
ner of treating fruits, woaid be ini- 
poffibie; the reader will find what 
has b*en faid, ii du% attended to, 
futiicient. 

The BrufTels- and Erida apricots, 
being', for the mofl part, planted for 
ltandards, will require very little pru- 
ning or management j only obi'erve, 
t» take out ail the dead wood, or fuel.. 
branches as crefs each other j this- 
rau.'t b« i lone early in autumn-, or in 
the fpring after the cold weather is. 
j/aft, that the p3rt may not canker 
where the inciiion is made. 

APH.lL,ii the fourth calendar montr'' 
in lite civil year, ivA confi.'U of thirty 
t tvs. Th& 



APR 



APR 



Many will no doubt expefl the Huf- 
bandman's and Gardener's Kalendar 
fcr this month. 

With refpeft to the firfl, it is mo- 
rally impofiible to give even a tolera- 
ble account of the Farmer's duty for 
each month. The feafons, the foil, and 
its peculiar management, the different 
fituation and condition of eftates, Szc. 
&c. all concur to render fuch an at- 
tempt highly ridiculous andabfurd. 

About an hundred years ago, when 
agriculture was but little pra&ifed, and, 
if poffible, lefs underftood, a Kalen- 
dar had its ufe. Wooldridge published 
one at the end of his Syitem of Agri- 
culture, collected from different au- 
thors, in which he likewife gave the 
fubftance of Mr. Evelyn's Hortulan 
Kalendar. Wooldridge was copied by 
that errant plagiarift who wrote the 
Art ofHufbandry by J. Mortimer, Efq; 
F. R.S. who is again copied by the 
modern writers of Kalendars. Who 
but mult laugh when he reads — who 
but muft grieve when he pays for fuch 
miferable fluff, as " Fell the timber 
you intend to bark, keep geefe and 
fwine out of commons and paflures, 
cleanfe ditches, gather up worms and 
fnails in evenings and mornings, open 
the doors of the bee-hives," which is 
given in the Kalendars for April. 

As to the Gardener's Kalendar, Mr. 
Miller fills near thirty oclavo pages 
with directions and catalogues for this 
month. If thefe directions are fup- 
pofed to be neceffary, we cannot a- 
bridge them, nor have we room to in- 
fert them. 

The following catalogues, however, 
may ferve to refrefh the memory of 
thofs who are fond p^-gardening. 
Produ&s of the Kitchen Garden. 

Sprouts of broccoli, cabbages, and 
favoys, are now very good, if they are 
gathered before they run up to feed. 
The young fhoots of turneps and hop- 
tops are often eaten when there is a 
fcarcity of other greens, all forts of 
young fallet- herbs, fpinach, raddifhes, 
afpa/agus, coleworts, parfley, alifan- 
ders, chard beet, fome late celery and 
endive in moift ground; forrel, bur- 
net, thyme, hyfop, winter favory.pot- 
marjorum, brown Dutch, and cab- 
bage lettuces, in frames or under glaf- 
fes on warm borders ; ail'o fome cos 
lettuce, where they have efcaped the 
froli, will be fit for ufe towards the 



end of the month ; chervil, young o- 
nions, leeks, cives, fcallions, rocam- 
bole, borage, fage, rofemary, and fome 
parfnips and carrots, where they have 
been preferved in fand ; for where they 
have remained in the ground, thofe 
which are found will have fprouted, 
after which their roots will become 
fticky and tough, fo unfit for eating. 
Young carrots which were fown in; 
autumn are now in prime ; and the 
young fhoots of falfify or tragopogon, 
which is by fome perfons preferred to 
afparagus when gathered young. Upon 
the hot-beds, cucumbers, peafe, kid- 
ney-beans, and purflane; and towards 
the end of the month, you have often 
peas on warm borders where they have 
efcaped the froft, and fome early cab- 
bages. 

Fruits in Prime, or yet lajiing. 
Pears, frane-real, bergamot, bugi, 
Saint Martial, winter boncretien, Lord 
Cheyne's winter green, beffy de chau- 
montelle from an efpalier on cold land; 
carmelite, and for baking, the Cadil- 
lac, and Parkinfon's warden. 

Apples ; golden ruffet, Pile's ruffet, 
Wheeler's ruffet, nonpareil, John ap- 
ple, ftone pippin, with fome others. 

In the forcing-frame, cherries, maf- 
culine apricot, fome plums ; and on 
the hot-bed flrawberries. 

Plants noiv in Flciver in the Pleasure 

Garden, 
Anemonies, Ranunculufes of vari- 
ous kinds, polyanthufes, auriculas, tu- 
lips, crown imperials, hepaticas, hya- 
cinths of various forts, narciffufes, 
daffodils, jonquils, violets, mufcarias, 
dwarf-flag iris, great fnowdrop, fpring 
cyclamens, fpring colchiums, pulfatil- 
las, bulbous fumitory, ducks-foot or 
May apple, rofe-roots, wood anemo- 
ny, friar's cowl, Italian arum, double 
ladies fmock, double pilewbrt, ftarry 
hyacinths, dog's-tooth, double daifies, 
tritillarias of various kinds, gentia- 
nella, double caltha paluftris, large 
green- flowered ornithogalum of Na- 
ples, Perfian lily, orchifes of feveral 
forts, fanguinaria, Solomon's feal, A- 
merican lung-wort, meSdia, double 
faxifrage, Venetian vetch, lynchnifes, 
allyfon creticum, bugle, cat's-foot lily 
of the valley, kopard's-bane, honey- 
wort, leon topelaton, hearts-eafe, pe- 
riwinkle with lingle flowers both fmall 
and large, as alfo with double flowers 
of a purple colour, borage-leaved v.-r- 
G baft urn, 



APR 



A R A 



bafcum, blue-flowered perennial moth- 
mullein, \viih fome ethers. 
Hardy 1 .. I at d Shrubi noiv in Flower. 

Lilac, with white, purple, and blue 
flower -,, Pel fian lilac with pi ivct leaves, 
commonly called thePsrfian lilac with 
entire and with cut leaves, laburnums, 
double-flcvverh.g peach-tree, double- 
floweiing pear-tree, cherry plum, al- 
mond with white and peach-coloured 
b'.oflbms, amalanchier, aria theophraf- 
ti, viburnum, bird cherry, Cornifh 
cherry, cockfpur hawthorn, dwarf al- 
mond with fmgle and double flowers, 
hypericum frutex, Benjainin-tree, bar- 
berry-tree, bilherry-bulh, bladder-nut, 
fervice- tree, tuipentine-tree,early white 
and Italian honeyfuckles, yellow jaf- 
mine, lauruftinus, fcorpion fena, ca- 
ragana, eaftern bladder fena, dwarf 
cheiiy, coronilla cretica, Siberian cy- 
tifus, fingle virgin rofe, hairy cytifus, 
laurel, pyracantha, Glaflonbury thorn, 
nettle-tree dogwood, quicken or moun- 
tain afh, fpindle-tree, fcarlet- flower- 
ing maple, horfe chefnut, fpirea fru- 
tex, upright and fly honeyfuckle, aza- 
lea's, with fome others. 

Medicinal Plants, which may nciv be 

gathered for ufe. 
Brooklime, water-creffes, wood-roof, 
moufe-ear, daify, rice-leaved whitlow- 
grafs, bugle, fhepherd's-purfe, dande- 
lion, wl.i'.e faxifrage, coltsfoot, hair- 
bells, grourd-ivy- dead-nettle, wood- 
forrel, cowflip, primrcfe, raddifh-: 

Plants in Flower in the Gietn-Ilouje 
and Si 

African geraniums of various forts, 
ilex-leaved lantana, candy tuft- tree. 
African anthcricum with aloe leaves, 
and two or three forts with onion 
leaves, tree fcalioui, cyflifes, three or 
four forts of ardiotus, mefembryanthe- 
mi of feveral forts, aloes of feveral 
kinds, corenilla cretica, cyflifus cana- 
rienfis, medicago frutefcens, Aleppo 
cyclamen.., hermannias oi four 
forts, colutea sethiopica, polygala A- 
fricana, hypericum balcaricum, two 
forts of Afri an fhrubby tanfey, three- 
leaved Africa fumach, melianthus 
minor fcetidus, cotyledons, turnera, 
ligia of two or three forts, hum- 
ble plant, mi folio, oiive 
tree, v '. ."ican fifyrii 

. cunonia, A- 

. ithfmootl and with 

I ]( i :,. dumb car.e, r; a\ Ifj i, 

waltheria, atamufco lily, pancratium, 



fmall creeping cereus with crjmfon 
flowers, cannacorous, ixia of feveral 
forts, antholyza, fhrubby African ftar- 
woit of two forts, tetragonia, clutia, 
fome forts of miinofa, diofma of two 
forts, African fhrubby fage with yel- 
low and blue flowers, fhrubby flachys 
from the Canaries, teucrium, bceticum, 
fhrubby convolvulus from Crete, he- 
lioti opium fcorodonise folio, coral-tree, 
haemanthus colchici foliis, black flow- 
ering lotus, tree houfleek, craffula, 
African wood forrel with large purple 
and alfo with yellow flowers, China 
rofe, elychryfum oiientale, Spanifh 
toad-liax, ornithogalum from the Cape 
of Good Hope, African marigold two 
forts, chryfocoma, euphorbias, forrel- 
tree, lycium with narrow leaves, ca- 
nary fhrubby fox-glove, othonna two 
or three forts, Peruvian heliotrope, A- 
fiican cacalia, with fome others. 

AQUA, water. This term is fre- 
quently met with in the writings of 
pbyficians, chymiits, &c. for cettain 
medicines, or menitruums, in a liquid 
form, diilinguifhed from each other 
by particular epithets, as aqua fortis, 
aqua vita, &c, 

AQU/EDUCT, an artificial canal, 
or channel, made of ftone, brick, or 
timber, to convey water from one place 
to another. Thofe aqurzdufts which 
the Romans built were furprifingly 
■ ificent That whic -IV. 

erefti ai n for carrying 

Bucq toVerfailles is perhaps the 
greatest now in the world. 

AQU* AGE, a water-courfe. 

AQjJATiC. an appellation given to 
fuch things as live or grow in the wa- 
ter ; thus we fay, aquatic animals, a- 
quatic plants, &c. p/&C 

Aquatic Plants, are the withy or 
willow, ozier, water creffes, Sec. See 
Willow, Ozier, &C. 

AQUEDUCT. See Aqueduct. 

ARABANT, ad curiam domin'i, was 
intended of thofe who held by the te- 
nure of ploughing and tilling the land* 
of the lord. 

ARABLE LAND, fuch as is tilled t/tft? 
or cultivated for the production of corn, %/ffffj. 

ARALIA, Berry-bearing Angelica. 
Tl ere are three fpecies, viz. i. Canada 
bearing angelica ; 2. Berry-bear- 
ring angeiica with a naked flalh j 3. 
1 tree. 
,. and fecond forts are eaf.ly 
propagated by feeds, which fhculd be 
fewn 



A R B 



A R B 



fe"vvn in autumn foon after they are 
ripe. In the autumn following, when 
their leaves decay, the roots fhould be 
tranfplanted, where they are to re- 
main ; being hardy plants they will 
grow in any fituation. The third fort 
is propagated by feeds which mull be 
procured from North-America, or by 
its roots ; for as the roots fpread far in 
the ground, fo they will put out young 
plants at a diftance from the items, 
which may be taken off before they 
begin to fhoot in the fpring. The 
flowers of this fort make no great fi- 
gure, but the plants are preferred in 
moft of the curious gardens in Eng- 
land. 
- ARBOR, a tree. 

ARBOREOUS, fomething belong- 
ing to or partaking of the nature of 
trees : thus moffes, &c. growing on 
trees are called arboreous. 

ARBORESCENT, a term applied 
to fuch things as referable trees ; thus 
we read of arborefcent fhrubs, arbo- 
refcent animals, &c. of which laft kind 
is that great natural curionty the ftar- 
fifh. 

ARBOR VIT^, or Tree of Life, 
[Thuya.] The fpecies of this beauti- 
ful evergreen are, i. Common arbor 
vita;; 2. Chinefe arbor vita; ; 3. Ar- 
bor vita with ftriped leaves ; though 
Miller fays this laft is only a variety of 
the firft which proceeds from a weak- 
nefs in the plant, and therefore can 
only be preferved by propagating the 
plants by cuttings or layers ; and thefe 
mult be planted on thin land to pre- 
ferve the variegation ftrong. 

Both the other forts may be propa- 
gated either by feeds, layers, or cut- 
tings ; but as railing the firft by feeds 
is tedious, the other methods are pre- 
ferred. It grows naturally in Canada, 
Siberia, and other northern countries. 

The Chinefe arbor vitce is at firlt a 
little delicate and grows flowly ; the 
feeds fhould therefore befown in pots, 
and in the preceding fpring, when they 
begin to vegetate, plunged into a mo- 
derate hot-bed till June; obferving to 
protect them in the winter. This 
treatment mould be renewed till they 
are fit for the nurfery. Thefe plants 
may likewife be raifed from layers or 
cuttings, obferving when they have 
flood two years and are rooted to plant 
them in pots and plunge them into hot- 
beds, as directed for railing them from 
feeds. 



This tree requires a particular ad- 
drefs in pruning it ; for if it 'is Grip- 
ped or trimmed clofe to am cotilider- 
able height, the body will be very 
flender and bear no proportion to its 
large and weighty top. The belt me- 
thod to prevent this will be to cut a- 
way from the bottom to near the top, 
all ill-placed forked branches (of which 
this tree produces many) referving on- 
ly at proper diftances fuch as are vi- 
gorous and radiate directly from the 
body. 

ARBOUR, a kind of fhady bower 
formerly in great efteem, but of late 
rejected on account of its being damp 
and unwholefome. .■' 

ARBUTUS, the Strawberry Tree . *^ c 
We have five fpecies of this tree. 1. 
The Common Arbutus ; 2. Arbutus 
with plain leaves, called by fome A- 
drachne ; 3. Arbutus, called the Bil- 
berry of Arcadia with alaternus leaves; 
4. Arbutus, called the Bilberry with 
oblong whitifh leaves; 5. Arbutus, 
called Uva Urfi, ©r Bear-berries. 

The firft fort has two or three vari- 
eties, one with double flowers, and 
another with red flowers. Thefe rriull 
be preferved by inarching or grafting 
them upon the common arbutus, for 
their feeds do not produce the fame 
kind. 

The beft method to propagate the 
arbutus isfrom feeds which ripen from 
the middle of November till the end of 
December, obferving that the ripe ber- 
ries lofe their fine fcarlet, and become 
ofabrownifh tawny colour. The whole 
berries ihould be preferved entire in 
dry fand (and not wafhed as fomead- 
vife) till the feafon of lowing, when 
by foftly rubbing them in the hands 
the feeds will eafily feparate from the 
pulp. The feeds mould be fown in 
March upon a moderate hot-bed, and 
in five or fix weeks the plants will 
appear, when they muft have frequent 
but very flight waterings; the beds 
muft be fhaded in the heat of the day 
till Auguft, when the glaffes may be 
taken off till winter approaches, and 
then they fhould be replaced. 

The fucceeding fpring plant them 
in pots and plunge them in another 
hot-bed, and with the ufual waterings 
let them remain till Auguft, when they 
may be taken out and placed in any 
warm fhehered fpot till October; they 
fhould now be expofed to the winter 
G 2 fun, 



ARC 



ARC 



fun, but they fhould be Sheltered with 
mats in ft dorms. In the next 

fpring take tl e dead mould out of the 
pots <.r.d add fomefrefli; remove them 
to a fhady uoi der till autumn, and then 
expofe them again to the winter fun 
unde i wall or hedge as before. 

> foil ■ they m2y be 

d into the < per ground, 

where they are to remain; but they 

more hardy if they 

, . ther pots for a year 

are mult be taken not 

m too much at their re- 

hey lc -ie a dry warm foil, 

\ ill not thrive in moid, hea- 

, clai iand. 

\RC^\NCIEL, or Dead Nettle, 

\Larr:iur,i.~\ There are various fpecies 

and varieties ; but as many of them 

ate weeds, fo there are feldom more 

than five forts admitted into gardens. 

Some of thelc will fovv themfelves; the 

others may be propagated by parting 

the roots in autumn. 

White An chancel, \Lanuum Al- 
bum^ This grows wild in hedges, 
and flowers in April and May. The 
flowers have been particularly celebra- 
ted in uterine fiuors, and other female 
weakness ; as alfo in diforders of the 
lung . 

ARCHIMfcDES's SCREW, fo call- 
ed from Archimedes its inventor, a 
kh.d of fpiral pump for railing water. 
This engine is too well known to 
requiie a particular dtlcription. It is 
not much ufed, though it may be ufe- 
ful in raifing water that is foul with 
fand, &c. as the leathers of pumps 
will be foon deftroyed by thefe parti- 
cles. And it was principally this rea- 
fon that induced the ingenious Mr. 
Smeaton to erect a machine of this 
kind in the gardens of her Royal High- 
nefs the Princefs Dowager of Wales 
at Kew, where it is worked by horfes, 
and fupplies all the ponds, Sec. in that 
extenfive garden with water. A ma- 
chine of this kind, turned by a wind- 
mill, might be of great ufe in drain- 
ing lands in feveral parts of England, 
as it is not fubjecl to be out, of order, 
2nd mi^ht I e made to raife a very 
large quantity of water to a fmall 
height. In the ccurfe of this work we 
fhail defcribe feveral other contri- 
vances for this purpole, there being 
many very curious and ufeful engines 
depofited in the machine room of 



the Society for the encouragement of 
arts, &c. 

.ARCHITECT, aperfon who draws 
the plans of edifices, and fuperintends 
and directs the feveral artificers em- 
ployed in the building. 

ARCHITECTURE, the art or fci- 
ence of erecting edifices, whether for 
habitation or defence; and hence fub- 
divided into civil, military, and naval. 
Civil Architecture, is abfol ute- 
ly, and by way of eminence, Oiled Ar- 
chiuElure, and teaches how to make 
any kind of buildings, as palaces, 
churches, private houfes, &c. and the 
rules to be obferved in it are folidity, 
convenience, and beauty, to which 
fome add, order, difpolition, propor- 
tion, decorum, and ojconomy. Soli- 
dity implies the choice of a good foun- 
dation, and found materials; conve- 
nience confids in fo ordering the parts 
of an edifice that they may not embar- 
rafs one another ; beauty is that a- 
greeable form and pleafing appearance 
which it exhibits to the eye of a fpec- 
tator ; order gives each part of the 
building a convenient bignefs, whether 
confidered apart, or with relation to 
the whole ; and difpofition is the agree- 
able union of all the parts. Propor- 
tion is the relation that all the work 
hath to its parts, and which every one 
feparately hath to the whole; decorum 
teaches to have a regard to defign, cuf- 
tom, and nature ; and ceconomy to 
confider the expences, in order to re- 
gulate the form and magnitude of the 
fabric. 

With refpect to the feveral periods 
and dates of architecture, it is diftin- 
guifned into antient, gothic, and mo- 
dern. The Greeks and Romans were 
fo happy in adjuding the various pro- 
portions cf an edifice, that any neg- 
lect of their rules has been found to be 
a deviation from proportion and beau- 
ty itfelf. It is for this reafon that the 
moderns have retrieved the primitive 
(implicity of modern architecture, 
which, upon the decline of the wedern 
empire, was lod in the general confu- 
fion of arts and fciences, being fuc- 
ceeded by the gothic and morefk, fo 
called from the Goths and Moors. 
Thefe made perfection to conlid in the 
delicacy and multitude of the orna- 
ments, which they bedowed on their 
buildings, wich abundance of care, as 
may be feen in molt of the antient 
ftructures 



A R O 



A R R 



itructures In England and other parts 
of Europe. 

The manner then, of the ancients 
being reputed tine fiandard of beauty 
and grandeur, another divifion .of ar- 
chitecture arifes from the different pro- 
portions ©bferved by them in different 
buildings ; according to the bulk, 
ftrength, delicacy, richnefs, orfimpli- 
city required. This confifts of five 
orders, all invented at different times, 
and on different occafions, viz. tufcan, 
doric, ionic, Corinthian, and compofite. 
ARCUATION, in gardening, the 
railing of trees by layers, which is 
done thus. Strong mother plants, or 
flioots, muft be planted in a clean bor- 
der in a ftraight line, fix inches afun- 
der ; and when they have fhot five or 
fix main branches from the root, and 
as many collateral branches, thefe main 
branches mu.t be bent to tiie ground ; 
for which reafon, fome cut them half 
through, and peg them faft down. 

The fmall branches muft be cover- 
ed three inches thick upon the joints, 
and have a large bafon of earth made 
round them to hold the water. 

Some perfons give the branches a 
tvvift, to make them root thefooner. 

ARDERS, fallowings, or plough- 
ings of land. 

ARENA, Sand. See Sand. 
ARGILLA, Clay. See Clay. 
ARGOL, a common name for red 
tartar. See Tartar. 
ARID, dry. 

ARK, a large chefl to put corn or 
fruit in, like the bin of a buttery. 

ARLES, or Ear i. es, earneft ; thus 
an arles-penny, fignifies an earneft 
penny. Servants' vails are likewife 
called arks in fome places. 

ARMAN, in farriery. See Drench. 
ARNALIA, arable grounds. 
AROMATIC, an appellation given 
to fuch plants and other bodies asyield 
a bride fragrant fmell, and a warm fpicy 
tafte, as cloves, cardamom-feeds, cin- 
namon, nutmegs, &c. Their peculiar 
qualities refide in a volatile oil, ufu- 
ally called effential oil, and a groffer 
refinous fubftance, capable of being 
extracted by fpirit of wine. The vir- 
tues of all aromatic vegetables are ex- 
tracted by vinous fpirits ; very imper- 
fectly by watery liquors. In dittilla- 
tion they arife with water more per- 
fectly than with fpirit. Arom3tics, 
considered as medicines, warm the fto- 



mach, and by degrees the whole ha- 
bit, raife the pulfe, and quicken the 
circulation : hence in cold languid ca- 
fes, they increafe ftrength, and pro- 
mote the natural fecretions. 

It is remarkable, that aromatics or 
fpices preferve animal fubftances from 
putrefaction ; and that providence has 
taken care to furnifh warm climates 
with plenty of aromatics, which the 
inhabitants make frequent ufe of, and 
probably thereby check that fpontane- 
ous tendency to putrefaction, to which 
tiie heat inclines them. 

Befules all kinds of fpices, not a few 
of the nervous fimples may be ranked 
among the aromatics. 

ARPENT, the French name for an 
acre. 

We have already obferved under the 
article Acre, that the French arpent is 
very nearly equal to one acre and three 
quarters of a rood Englifh meafure. 
But it may be neceffary to add here, 
that the French have three different 
arpents, diftinguifhed by the epithets 
little, middle, and vreat arpent. 

The little Arpent contains i co per- 
ches of eighteen feet and a half fquare; 
confequently its fuperficial meafure is 
32,400 French feet, equal to 34,603 
feet, or three rood, feven perches, and 
twenty-feven feet Englifh meafure. 

The twiddle Arpent, confifts alfo of 
100 perches, twenty feet fquare, which 
make 40,000 French feet fuperficial 
meafure : equal to 42,720 feet, or 
three rood, thirty-fix perches, and 149 
feet Englilh meafure. 

The great Arpent, contains 100 
perches of twenty-two feet fquare. 
See the article Acre. 

ARRACHE. See Orach. 

ARREARS, or arrearages, the re- 
mainder of a fum due, or money re- 
maining in the hands of an account- 
ant. It fignifies alfo, more generally, 
the money that is due for rent, unpaid 
for land or houfes ; likewife what re- 
mains unpaid of penfions, taxes, or 
any other money payable annuaily, or 
at any fixed term. 

ARRENTATION, in the foreft- 
law, is thelicenfing an owner of lands 
in aforelt, to incJofe them with a low 
hedge, and a fmall ditch, in conlide- 
ration of a yearly rent. 

ARRESTS, in farriery, mangy tu- 
mours upon a horfe's hinder legs, be- 
tween the ham and the pattern. 

ARROW- 



A R S 



ART 



ARROW-HEAD, [Sagitta.] It 
grows in rivers and watery places, and 
flowers in May and June. The herb 
and feed are both uied, and are of a 
cold and moi ft temperament accord- 
ing to Matthiolus and P.oerhaave, but 
the fmell and tafte fpeak it of a hot 
nature. 

ARROW-ROOT, or Indian Ar- 
row-Root, [Maranta,] two fpecies. 
Thefe plants are natives of a warm 
country, and therefore will not live in 
this, unlets they areprefei ved in floves. 
They propagate fait by their creeping 
roots, which fhould be parted about 
the middle of March, and planted in 
pots of frefh light earth, and plunged 
into a moderate hot-bed of tanner's 
bark ; refreshing them now and then 
with a fmall quantity of water, till 
the green leaves appear, when they 
fhould be watered oftener. When the 
plants decay fo that" the leaves die to 
ground, the pots fhould be ftill conti- 
nued in the bark bed, otherwifc the 
roots will perifh ; but fhould have but 
little water given them. 

Mr. Miller fays, Indian Arrow-root 
Is efteemed a fovereign remedy to cure 
the bite [he means thefting} of wafps, 
and to extraci the pcifon of the man- 
chineel-tree. The In.-iians mafh the 
clean root, and then apply it as a poul- 
tice to draw out the poifon from a 
wound occaficr.ed by their poifontd 
arrows. It will alfo, he fays, flop a 
gangrene, if it be applied before it be 
gone too far ; fo that it rauft be a very 
valuable plant. 

ARSMART, [Perficaria,] of which 
there are various fpecies. The orien- 
tal Arfmart is a large plant, riling to 
the height of eight or ten feet where 
the foil is moift. The plants are an- 
nual, and make a beautiful appear- 
ance ; and may eafily be propagated 
by differing the feeds to (lied where the 
plants grow, and tranfplanting them 
in the fpring where they are to remain. 

Spotted A p. s m a r t , [ Perjtcar'ia Miris] 
grows wild in moi it watery places, and 
is recommended for external purpofes. 
Toumefort aiiuresus (in the memoirs 
of the Fiench academy 1703) that it 
is one of the heft vulneraries and an- 
ti s lie knows, and that a decoc- 

tion ol it in wine itops gangrenes in a 
fttrprifing manner. The prefent prac- 
has no dependance on it. 

Biting A r emir t 3 La k t We e d, or 



Water Pepper, \Perjicaria Ureas] 
is readily diftinguifhed from the other 
by its pungent, biting, pepper-like 
tafte. Its virtues are thofe of an acrid 
ftimulating medicine: in phlegmatic 
habits it promotes the urinary dis- 
charge, and has frequently done good 
fervice in fcorbutic complaints. The 
frefh leaves are fometimes applied ex- 
ternally for curing old fi'tulous ulcers, 
and confuming fungous flefh ; for thefe 
purpefes they are faid to be employed 
by the farriers, among whom they are 
at prefent principally made ufe of. 

ARTEDIA. We have no Englifh 
name for this plant, of which there 
are two fpecies. One of them is a na- 
tive of the Eaft, and the other grows 
upon the African fhore in the Medi- 
terranean, and likewifein Spain. 

Both thefe plants decay as foon as 
they perfect their feeds, and many 
times before they are ripe, in England. 
The feeds fhould be fewn in autumn 
in a warm border to remain, for they 
will not bear tranfplanting. 

ARTICHOKE, [Cynara] of which 
there are two forts cultivated in gar- 
dens ; one known by the name of the 
globe artichoke, and the other called 
the French artichoke. The globe ar- 
tichoke produces large round heads, 
with broad brown fcales turning in- 
ward : the eatable part at the bottom 
of the fcales is very thick, and better 
flavoured than the other fort, which 
produces taller ftalk?, with lefs heads, 
and conicaliy fhaped ; the fcales are 
narrower, and have lefs fiefh at their 
bottoms ; on which account the French 
fort is pretty much excluded from the 
Er.glifti gardens, the other being con- 
fiderably preferable. 

The artichoke delights in a deep, 
rich, and moift foil, well prepared with 
rotten dung, and mixed to the depth 
of three feet at leaft ; for the deeper 
the mould is, the lefs watering they 
will require in fummer, and produce 
larger and better flavoured heads.— 
The manner of propagating this 'plant, 
is from the flips or fuckers (though 
they may be raifed from feed) which 
aiife from the old roots in Febru- 
ary or March, or as foon as the 
hard Irofts are over, which, if planted 
in a proper foil, will produce good 
fruit in the autumn following. Thefe 
1- (iiould be carefully taken off 
with roots to them, particularly where 
a frefh 



ART 



ART 



a frefh plantation is intended ; and as 
they are pretty deep in the ground, the 
earth fhould be removed from around 
the mother plant, to take them off the 
more eafily, leaving two or three of 
the ftraighted, cleared:, andmoftpro- 
roifing plants, which are produced 
from the under part of the flock, for 
a crop, obferving in flipping off the 
other fuckers, to be careful not to in- 
jure thofe which are defigned to re- 
main. When this operation is done, 
the earth fhould be drawn to the plants 
which are left, and well clofed to 
them, cutting off the extremity of the 
leaves which hang down ; after which, 
the ground between them fhould be 
dug, and a crtp of fpinage may be 
fown, which will be taken off before 
the artichokes cover the ground. To- 
ward the latter end of April, or be- 
ginning of May, when the plants be- 
gin to (hew their fruit, all the young 
fhcots produced from the root fince 
the lad dreffing fhould be difplaced, fo 
as to leave only the principal plants 
which are intended for fruiting, which 
will by that means bear the better, and 
likewife to take off all the fuckers that 
are produced fiom the fides of the ftalk, 
leaving only the principal head, which 
will caufe the fruit to be confiderably 
larger. When the artichokes are fit to 
be ufed, they fhculd be cut, and the 
(talks broke off clofe to the furface of 
the ground, in order that the docks 
may make frefh fhcots before the end 
of Oflober, which is the feafon for 
earthing them up, although it may be 
deferred till any time in December, 
provided the feafon proves mild. 

The method of earthing artichokes, 
(or landing them as by fome called) 
confids in cutting off all the young 
fhocts quite clofe to the ground, then 
digging a trench between each row, 
and covering the roots with the earth 
thrown up in form of a ridge, over the 
line of the artichokes : tins will fecuie 
them <rom the frofis that are common, 
and is by far much better than cover- 
ing them with long dung, which is a 
bad practice, becaufe the dung laying 
near the roots is very apt to rot them, 
beiides harbouring of vermin, wi it 1; 
may defircy the roots; though it would 
not be a mi fs in very fevere frofis, to 
put draw, peas-haulm, &c. on the 
ridges, which will keep fome part of 
the extremity of the weather from 



them, without damaging the roots 5 
but this covering need not be ufed till 
there is no avoiding it, and fo foon as 
the weather becomes mild, it fhould 
be taken off, for it will be a differvice 
to the plants, if it lies too long on 
them. After the plants are earthed 
up with the a!ore-mentioned precau- 
tions, they will not want any farther 
care till February or March, when they 
will have grown through the ridge of 
earth, and rnuft be managed as before- 
diredled. 

Though the flocks of artichokes will 
laft feveral years in a good rich foil, 
yet as they are great impoverifhers of 
the ground, their fruit will dwindle 
fo as to render it neceffary to have a 
frefh plantation every fourth or fifth 
year, or rather every year, on account 
of having their fruit in autumn; for 
this purpofe, the ground being pre- 
pared and provifion made of a fuffi- 
cient number of fuckers, make choice 
of thofe which are clear, found, and 
not woody, having fome fibres to their 
bottom ; with a knife cut off the knot- 
ted part which joined to the dalk. If 
it cuts crifp and tender, it is a fign of 
the fucker's being good ; but if tough 
and ftringy, it is to be rejected, ha- 
ving properly fingled out thofe which 
are fitting for the purpofe, cut the 
large outfide leaver off pretty low, in 
fuch a m3rmer that the middle leaves 
may rife above them ; the plant being 
thus prepared, the belt, method of plan- 
ting is in rows as draight as poffible, 
which mud be done by ranging a line 
acrofs the ground, fetting them at a- 
bout two feet afunder in each row; 
and if more rows are wanted than one, 
thefe fhould be at the didance of five 
feet, and the plants fet in quincunx 
order : the depth they fhould be planted 
to be about four inches, and the earth 
well clofed about the roots ; and if the 
feafon proves dry, they fhould be of- 
ten watered till they have taken good 
root : if the feafon proves favourable 
for them, and particularly on a moid: 
rich foil, thefe plants will produce the 
largert and bed artichokes fome time 
in Augud and September, after the 
old docks have ceafed bearing ; fo that 
the feafon is confiderably lengthened 
for producing this fruit, by making a 
new plantation every year. 

The kitchen-gardeners near London, 

who endeavour to make the mod of 

evei y 



A R T 



ART 



every inch of their high-rated land, ge- 
nerally plant their rows of artichokes 
nine or ten feet afunder, and befides 
fowing between' them rr.lifhes or fpi- 
nage, they plant two rows of cauli- 
flowers, at the diftance of two feet 
and a half afunder in rows, arid four 
feet from row to row, fo that full five 
feet are allowed for the artichokes. 
In May, when the crop of radifhes or 
Ipihagels off, they fow along the mid- 
dle oi' the fpace between the two rows 
of cauliflowers, a line of cucumbers 
for pickling, at the diltance of three 
feet ; and between the cauliflowers and 
artichokes, they plant for winter ufe a 
row of cabbages, or favoys, which 
have room enough to grow after the 
cauliflowers and artichokes are taken 
off": thus the ground is fully cropped 
during the whole feafon. A moid rich 
foil always yields the largell and bell 
artichokes, but if it be very moift, the 
icots will not live through the winter: 
fuch ground fhould therefore be allot- 
ted for frefh plantations, made every 
fpring, to fu'pply the table in autumn, 
after the old flocks have done bearing; 
but for early fruit, the plants fhould 
be in a drier fituation; they fhould be 
alfo in an open place, that i . free fr m 
the drip of trees, for they would draw 
the plants up weak, and thereby ren- 
der the fruit ("mail and trifling. If the 
artichoke flocks (hoot forth but weak- 
ly in the fpring, as they will do if they 
have been hurt by fro ft, or too much 
wet, it is befl to uncover them with 
a fpade, loofening and breaking the 
mould around them, or rather to dig 
the whole ground, if It be net planted 
with any thing elfe, and then to ear'h 
r<v raife a fmall hill about each ftock, 
which will greatly help them : in about 
three weeks or a month after, the flips 
will be fit to take off. 

The bottoms of artichokes are good 
for many culinary u!?s. The way to 
preferve them all the winter is to fe- 
parate them from the leaves 01 
parboil them, ano hang tru-m up in a 
dry place, ft i niread, with 

a clean piece of paper between every 
bottom, to ; revent their touching one 
another; they are likewife laid to be 
very good pickled. The artichoke 
fnckers, which grow on the fides of 
the (talk, are alio ufed in feveral in- 
tentions in cookery. 

Artichokes ate accounted a diuretic, 



and good againft the jaundice ; but 
they are more efteemed as a food than 
a medicine. 

The ingenious cultivator M.deCha- 
teauvieux, has raifed excellent arti- 
chokes in the open field, without dung- 
ing the ground, or even watering the 
plants, merely by a thorough flirring 
of the earth, according to the princi- 
ples of the new hufbandry. " Arti- 
chokes, fays that ingenious gentleman, 
planted at the beginning of May, pro- 
duced, in September, their firft fruit, 
which was, in general, from twelve to 
fifteen inches in circumference. Their 
leaves entirely covered the beds fix 
feet wide." 

Jemjakin Artichoke, [Helianthus\ 
a fpecies of the fun flower, of the pe- 
rennial kind, propagated in manygar- 
dens for the roots, which are efteemed 
by fome people ; but they are watery 
and windy, which hath brought them 
almoft into difufe. 

Thefe are propagated by planting 
the fmaller roots, or the larger ones 
cut into pieces, obferving to preferve 
a bud to each feparate piece, either in 
the fpring or autumn, allowing them 
a good diftance, for their roots will 
multiply greatly : the autumn follow- 
ing, when their flems decay, the roots 
may be taken up for ufe. Thefe plants 
fhould be cultivated in fome remote 
corner of the garden, for they are very 
unfightly while growing, and their 
roots are apt to over-run whatever 
grows near them; nor can they be ea- 
fily deftroyed, when they are once well 
fixed in a garden. 

ARTICLE, a claufe or condition of 
a contract, treatv, &c. 

ARTICULATED Plants, are fuch 
as a i ;dinin?uiihed from frace to fpace, 
bv knots or joints along their flems. 

'ARTIFICIAL GRASSES, fuch as 
are introduced into the field, and 
cultivated afterwards 5 as burnet, clo- 
ver, luce;" ff-.intfoin, ray-grafs, fpur- 
■">.- - method of cultivating each 
under : t: t :'er article. 

riFlCIAL PASTURES, fuch 
lands as are properly cultivated and 
fown with tl.e above plants, rr any 
other that yield a great deal of fodder 
for cattle. 

ARVALES FRATRES, in reman 
antiquity, a college of twelve priefls, 
inftituted by Romulus, who himfelf 
made one of the bo;iy : they afilftcd 



A R V 



ASA 



in thefacrifices of the ambervalia, of- 
fered annually to Ceres and Bacchus, 
for theprofperityof the principal fruits 
of the earth, viz. thofe of corn and 
wirte. 

ARUM, Wake-robin, Cuctoiv-pint, or 
PriejVs luhatd^ye call it. Mr. Miller enu- 
merates eighteen fpccies of this plant, 
which are preferved in the gardens of 
thofe perfons who are curious in col- 
lecting exotic plants for the variety of 
their leaves, their flowers having but 
little beauty, nor do they always ap- 
pear in this country. They are propa- 
gated eafily by offsets from their roots. 

Ethiopian Ar um, or Wake-robin, \C'al- 
/.j,J grows naturally at the Cape of 
Good Hope. It propagates very faft 
by offsets, which mould be taken off 
the latter end of Auguft, at wliich 
time the old leaves decay. They may 
be planted in the open air with other 
hardy exotics till the middle of au- 
tumn, when they muil be removed 
into fhelter for the winter feafon. If 
they are planted in a warm border and 
a dry foil, they will live in the open 
air in mild winters; but with a little 
iTielter in frofts they may be preferved 
in full growth very well. 

Arum, Common Wake-robin, grows 
wild under hedges, ard by the fides of 
banks, in molt parts of England. It 
fends forth in March, three or four 
triangular leaves, which are followed 
by a naked fialk, bearing a purplifh 
pifiil inclofed in a long (heath : this 
is fucceeded, in July, by a bunch of 
reddifh berries. In fome plants, the 
leaves are fpotted with black, in others 
with white fpots, and in others not 
fpotted at all : the black fpotted fort 
is fuppofed to be the moft efficacious, 
and hence is exprefsly directed by the 
college. All the parts of arum, par- 
ticularly the root, have an extremely 
pungent, acrimonious tafte : if the 
root be but lightly chewed in the 
fpring (at which time it is thefirong- 
eft) it continues to burn and vellicate 
the tongue for a confiderable while, 
occafioning at the fame time an in- 
tenfe third : thefc fymptoms are re- 
moved by butter, milk, or oily li- 
quors. Dried and kept for fome time, 
it lofes its acrimony, and becomes an 
almoft infipid farinaceous fubftance. 
This root is an irritating, attenuating 
medicine. It does good fervice in 
ecld fluggifh hlfciu : and in difer- 



ders proceeding from thick tenacious 
pijle~m ; which it powerfully diffolves, 
and at the fame time, by stimulating 
the fluids, promotes its expulfion ei- 
ther through the cuticuiar pores, or 
the groffer emunftofies. 1 he moft 
convenient method of preparing it for 
exhibition, feems to be by beating the 
frefh root with gummy refins, art) ma- 
king it into pills ; in this form it will 
retain its virtue longer than in that of 
powder, Junckcr paiticularly obferves 
of this root, that if given to the quan- 
tity of a dram along with a fprituous 
vehicle, it occafions a plentiful fweat, 
even in perfons otherwife little difpo- 
fed to this evacuation; but that if 
exhibited barely in the form of pow- 
der, it has not this effedT-. Some re- 
commend a tin<fkure of it dra vn with 
wine; hut neither vinous, fpirituo'JS, 
nor aqueous liquors extraft its virtues; 
nor do they arife in diftillation. 

ASAFOETIDA, Devil's Dung, is a 
kind of gum, of a very offer; vefmell, 
produced by a plant common in fome 
parts of Ferfia. 

The plant which produees it is one 
of the pentandria digynia of Linnjeus, 
and one of the herbse umbelliferae fe- 
mine foliaceo, feu aia foliacea cindto 
of Ray. We !iad a multitude of va- 
rious and falfe accounts of it for a 
long time ; Garcia- telling us it had 
leaves like the hazel ; and Bontius 
making two plants of ir, one like a 
willow, and the other with a root like 
a turnip; feme have given it leaves 
like the fi»-tree, fome like thofe of 
rice, and others have made it a fhrub 
of the phyllers kind. Kaimpfer is the 
author to whom we owe the true ac- 
count of it. This is given in his 
Amcenitates Exotica;, where he de- 
fcribes it fully and accurately, under 
the name of umbellifera levifticp affi- 
nis foliisinffar praonite ramofis, caule 
pleno maximo, femine foliaceo nudo 
folitario brancse urfina five paftinachas 
fimili radice afam fcettdam fundente, 
The Perfians call both the plant and 
the juice hingefch; and the Indians, 
hiing; but the more accurate in both 
countiies call the plant hingefch, and 
the juice or gum, hiing. 

The root of this plant is perennial, 
and very large. It is covered with a 
thick black rind, which eafily comes 
off from the reft, when frefh. Within 
it is perfadTly white, amd full of white, 
H m.Hfcy 



ASA 



ASA 



milky, and (linking juice, whieh,wheB 
collected and dried, is what the Per- 
fians call hiing, and the Europeans 
afa-fce:ida. i he top of this root is 
firrniflted with a larp.e tuft of hairy or 
filamentous matter, like that on the 
crown of the meum or fpigne). The 
leaves are very large, and like thofe of 
the piony. 

Tiie flalkis a: thick as a man's arm, 
and grows to eight or nine feet high. 
It gradually becomes taper toward the 
top, whence it is divided into a fmall 
number of branches. The leaves 
ftand alternately en thefe (talks, and 
that at no great diftances frcm o,ne an- 
other. The flowers are fmall, and 
I in umbels. The feeds are 
flattifh and filiated, and of an oval 
figure; they have fomevi b \\ of theafa- 
ch left than might 
be expected. It grows in Perfia, but 
i . at leatt in 
plenty. Thefe 
at, and 
In thefe places it 
abounds with juice, and yields the 
n found elf'e- 
iel 

ibU cfien- 
five fmell, and no animal will touch 
them: i ut the people of the town of 
that, in the country 
beyond them, {he plant lofes much of 
its bad fincll, and that tl e gca 
very greedily on the leaves, and grow 
very fat upon the diet. Some ha\e 
pretended to ; fpe< i« i of 

tins plant, the on a fmaller 

y of juice, and that of a lefs 
foetid I ing more 

of it, and tl (Unking : but 

Koempfer, who was upon the fpot, 
to be the fame, and 
all the difference to be in the foil that 
produces them. If what the Perfians 
of Difgu - true, however, it 

very well accounts for the difl 
of the Cyrenajc and P§rfian ki 
Silphium ; f " : n the firft of 

thefe places, might be a^ mild as be- 
yond Difguum, or even more fo. 

It is very lingular in this plant, that 
it feldom flowers, fometimes not till 
its twentieth, thirtieth, or even forti- 
eth >"- time the root 
is increasing in ."ze, and, consequent- 
ly, it fometimes grows to an enormo s 
bulk : roots of it have been feen ol the 
thicknefs o f a mm's thigh, and of a 



yard and a half in length : thofe of 
the thicknefs of one's arm are frequent. 
When it fends forth a ftalk, and has 
ripened its feed, it perifhes. The an- 
cients made a diftindlion in their Sil- 
phium, as it was produced from the 
(talk, or from the root of the plant ; 
but, at this time, all that we have is 
obtained from the root. They never 
make incifions in roots of lefs than 
four or five years (landing ; and they 
always find, that, the elder and lar- 
ger the root, the more plentifully the 
juice flows. 

The gum or juice, as it flows from 
the root, is white, and perfectly re- 
fembles cream, and has no vifcidity : 
on the contact of the air it dries an4 
hardens, and becomes vifeous and co- 
loured. The molt (trongly fcented afa- 
fcetida is always efteemed the heft; 
and Kaempfer obferves,that it is much 
ftronger, when frefn, than when kept 
and imported into Europe ; and that a 
drachm of it has more fcent than an 
hundred weight o£ what our druggifts 
keep. 

The leaves of the plant appear in 
autumn, and continue green the whole 
winter 5 in fpring they wither. About 
the end of April, when their leaves are 
in their decaying (tate, the Perfians 
afcend the mountains in fearch of the 
plants. They clear away the earth a- 
bcut the root for fix or feven incites 
deep ; they then twin off the loaves, 
and the fibrous fubftar.ee at the top of 
the root. They next earth up the root 
again to its top, which is now perfectly 
bare ; and this they cover with a bun- 
dle of weeds, to keep off the heat of 
the fun, which would otherwife de- 
ftroy it. They lay a (tone over ail this 
to keep it firm, that the wind may not 
blow it off; and in this condition they 
leave the >ootfor a month or fix weeks. 
At the er.d of this time, they take off 
the covering, clear away the earth a 
little from the crown of the root, and, 
with a (harp knife, cut it tranfverfely 
off, taking eff about an inch, or a lit- 
tle more, at the top. They then cover 
this wounded root with the weeds a- 
gain, making them ftand hollow from 
the wounded part, and thus leave them 
for two days ; at the end of which time 
they return, and find the top of the 
root, where they h id cut it erf, cover- 
ed with exfudated juice or afafcetida : 
this thvy collect, and put up in proper 
velfels j 



ASA 



ASA 



vefTels ; and, clearing away the earth a 
little lower, they cut off another flice 
from the top of the root, but this not 
thicker than a crown piece, and cover 
it up again for another gathering. As 
they take a large compafs of ground 
for their fearch, they are kept in con- 
stant employment ; the roots of the 
firft day's cutting being ready for their 
taking the gum from, by that time they 
have cut the more diftant ones, which 
they are regularly to return to after- 
wards. After they have gone through 
this fecond operation with all the roots, 
and collected the fecond quantity of 
gum from them, they cover then up 
for eight or ten days ; and after ha- 
ving fpread their gum in the f n to 
harden it, they cany it home. Four 
or five men generally go out in a com- 
pany, on thefe expeditions ; and it is 
a common tiling for them to bring 
home 5clb. weight of it from this firit 
gathering; this, however, is efieemed 
but an inferior kind of afafcetida ; af- 
ter the roots have remained covered 
for eight or ten days, they vifit them 
again, take off the covering of the 
weeds, and colled: the gum. They then 
cut off another flice of the root, and 
after that another, and then a third ; 
this is done at the diftance of two days 
between each operation, and the earth 
is every time cleared away to a proper 
depth, and the whole procefs managed 
as before. 

After the third collection in this fe- 
cond expedition, they cover up the 
roots again, and return home with 
their ftores, leaving them covered for 
three days. After this, they return to 
their work, and cut them again three 
feveral times at the fame di fiances of 
time j and, after the third collection of 
this laft expedition, they leave them 
to perilh, for they never recover this 
terrible operation. 

Afafcetida is compofed of a gummy 
and refinous fubftance, the firft in the 
largeft quantity. Its fmell and tafte 
refide in the refill; which is readily dif- 
folved and extracted by purefpirit, and 
the greater part with the gummy mat- 
ter by water. It is by much the Aron- 
geft of the deobftruent warm fcetid 
gums ; and is given not only againft 
hyfterical complaints, flatulent cho- 
lics, and obstructions of the breafl, but 
in moft nervous diforders, in which it 
frequently aits as an antifpafmodic, 



and an anodyne ; in foine cafes mufk, 
and in others opium, are ufefully join- 
ed with it. Hoffman recommence it 
as one of the moft powerful anthel- 
mintics hitherto known. It is moft 
commodioufly taken in the form of 
pills, from a few grains to a fcruple, 
or half a drachrh. It lofci both its 
fmell and ftrength with age ; a cir- 
cumftance neceflary to be attended to 
in proportioning the defes neceffary to 
be given in order to procure the in- 
tended effect. 

The antients attributed to this me- 
dicine many ether virtues, which are 
at prefent not expected from it. 

Asa Dulcis, SeeEcNzoiN. 

ASARABACCA, [^farum] of which 
there are three fpecies, the Common, 
theCana'a, and the Virginia ; which 
are eafily increafed by parting the roots 
in autumn. 

Common AsARABACCA, \Ajarum~\ is 
a very low ever-green plant, growing 
naturally in France, Italy, and other 
warm countries : the dried roots have 
been generally brought from the Le- 
vant ; thofe of our own growth being 
fuppofed to be weaker. The roots and 
leaves of afarum have a naufeous, bit- 
ter, acrimonious, hot tafte; their fmell 
is Itrong but not very difagreeable. 
Given in fubftance, from half a drachm 
to a drachm, they evacuate powerfully 
both upwards and downwards. It is 
fa id, that tinctures made in fpirituous 
menltrua, poff*:fs both the emetic at'd 
cathartic virtues of the plant: that the 
extract obtained by infpiffating thefe 
tinctures, afts only by vomit, and with 
great mildnefs : that an infufion in 
water proves cathaitic, rarely emetic : 
that aqueous decoctions made by long 
boiling, and the watery extract, have 
no purgative or emetic quality, but 
prove notable diaphoretics, diuretics, 
and emmenagegues. The principal 
ufe of this plant among us js, as a 
flernutatory. Tiie root of af;;rum is 
perhaps the ftrongelt of all the vegeta- 
ble errhines, white hellebore itfelf not 
excepted. Snuffed up the nofe in the 
quantity of a grain or two, it occa- 
sions a large evacuation of mucus, and 
raifes a ptyalifm. The leaves, the only 
part retained in our difpenfatory, are 
confiderably milder, and may be given 
to the quantity of three, four, or five 
grains. Geoffrey relates, that after 
giving a dofe of this errhine at night, 
H z he 



A S C 



A S C 



he has frequently obferved the difchsrge 
from the nofe to continue for three 
days together ; and that he has kn jwn 
a paraljfis of the mouth and tongue 
cured by one dofe. Ke recommends 
this medicine in ftubborn diforders of 
the head, proceeding from vifcid tena- 
cious matter, in palfies, and in fopo- 
rific di tempers, The leaves are an 
ingredient in the pulvis fternutatorius 
of the /hops, and in the cephalic fnuffs. 

Bafiard Asaritm, \sV'ar\na.~\ There 
are two fpecii ant,onegrows 

in It I : •■ -'■ the South of 
France ; and the other in North-Ame- 
rica. The f.eds fhbuld be fown in au- 
tumn in the places where the plants 
are to remain. 

ARTEDIA. We have noEnglifti 
namefoi this plant, of which there are 
two fpecies, O^e cf them is a native 
of the Eal', and the other grows upon 
the African fhore in the Mediterranean, 
and likewife in Spain. 

Beth ihefe plants decay as foon as 
they perfect their feeds, and many 
times b< ire ripe, in England. 

■ e fown in autumn 
in a warm border to remain, for they 
will not fear trarifplantihg. 

>ES, fmall worms corn- 
men in horfes, refembiirg needles, 
n white, and fome of an 
azure colour, with flattifh heads. They 
are often called needie-worms by the 
. 

fe worms are very troublefome, 
and hard to be rooted out. and expofe 
horfes to frequent gripes, and other 
frettiiig uneafy diforders in their guts. 
They breed at all times of the year, 
and often when one brood is deftroyed 
another fucceeds. They are not mor- 
tal ; but when a horfe is peltered with 
this fort of vermin, though he will go 
through his bufinefs tolerably well, and 
fometimes feed heartily, yet he always 
looks lean and jaded; his hair (tares 
as if he was furfeited, and nothing he 
eats makes him thrive; he often ft tikes 
his hind feet againft his belly, which 
fhews where his grievance lies, and is 
fometimes griped, but without the vi- 
olent fymptoms that attend a cholic,or 
ftrangury, for he never rolls or tum- 
bles, but only mews uneafmefs, and 
generally lays himfelfdown quietly on 
his belly for a little while, and then 
gets up and falls a feeding ; but the 
furefl fign is when he voids them with 
his dung. 



Thefe fmall worms fometimes come 
away in great numbers with a purge, 
and fome horfes get clear of them by 
puigescnly; but this does not often 
happen ; for the horfes that breed af- 
carides are, above all others, fubjedl 
to flime and wormy matter. They 
feem to have their lodgment about the 
beginning of the fmall guts, ne?r the 
ftomach, among the concocled aliment 
or chyie, both from their colour, the 
fymptoms of the gripes, and the fud- 
dsn fits of ficknefs thefe horfes are of- 
ten feized with, which fometimes make 
them abruptly leave eff their food, for 
a few minutes, and fall greedily to it 
again as foon as the fick fit is over. 
They are feldom feen, except when a 
horfe has had a purge given, or when 
he falls into a natural purging, which 
thole horfes are often fubjeel to, and 
then they come away in very great 
numbers, with much flime and nafti- 
nef . They not only make a horfe grow 
lean, and look forfeited ; but in open- 
ing his mouth, one may perceive a 
more than ordinary languid whitenefs, 
and a fickly fmell, from the want of 
thofe due fupplies of blood and nou- 
rishment, which give alivelinefs to the 
colour that is always perceivable in 
found vigorous horfes ; fo that what- 
ever be the primary caufc, thefe worms 
fetm, in a great meafure, to proceed 
from a vitiated appetite, and a weak 
digefiion, which renders them the more 
difficult to be removed; for which 
reafon recourfe mull be firft had to 
mercurials, and after thefe, to fuch 
things as are proper to ftrengthen the 
flomach, promote digellion, and give 
a better tone to the folids. 

To a horfe, therefore, that is trou- 
bled with thefe fmall white, or azure 
coloured worms, the following me- 
thod may be obferved : 

" Take of calomel two drachms ; 
diapente half an ounce ; make it into 
a ball, with a fcfficient quantity of 
confrrve of wormwood, or of rue, and 
give it in a morning, keeping the horfe 
from meat and water four hours be- 
fore, and four hours after taking it." 

The next morning administer the 
following purge, taking great care to 
keep the horfe from wet, or from any 
thing that may expofe him to carch 
cold. 

" Take hepatic aloes, one ounce; 
fait of tartar two drachms j frefh gin- 
ger 



ASH 



A S H 



»er grated, a drachm and a half; oil 
of amber a middling fpoonfu! : make 
the whole into a ball with flour or li- 
quorice powder." 

This purge may be worked off in 
the liable with warm water, which is 
much the fafeft way when mercurials 
are given. The calomel ball and purge 
may be repeated in fix or eight days ; 
and again in fix or eight days more. 

When a horie has gone through a 
courfe of thefe mercurial puiges, let 
the following drink be given two or 
three times a week, and continued till 
the horfe begins to thrive and look 
healthful. 

" Take rue, camomile flowers, and 
horehound, of each a handful ; galan- 
gals, bruifed in a mortar, three drachms; 
liquorice root, diced, two drachms : 
boil it in a quart or three pints of forge 
water five or fix minutes, in a cover- 
ed veflel, and keep it covered till cold: 
then ftrain it through a piece of coarfe 
canvas, and give it in the morninj upon 
an empty ftomach." 

ASCENT of Fluids, is particularly 
underftocd of their rifmg above their 
own level, which is caufed either by 
attraction, prefTure, elasticity of the 
air, the force of piftons in pumps, Lc. 
There are various experiments for pro- 
ving the afcent of fluids by attraction ; 
thus, if a tube be filled with fand, or 
lifted afhes, well preffed together, and 
one end of it be placed in a veflel of 
water, the water will be attracted by 
the fand, or afhes, and rife to a great 
height above that in the veflel. Or if 
any part of a piece of cap-paper, fponge, 
bread, fugar, linen, or fever.:! other 
fubflances, be wetted, the water will 
afcend or defcend, and therefore pio- 
pagate itfelfto the other parts by the 
power isfattra&ion, This is likewife 
the caife of the afcent of fpirir of wine, 
oil, melted tallow, or any oilier unc- 
tuous body into the wick of a candle. 
Nor is it unreafonable to think, that 
this is alfo the caufe of the afcent of 
fap in trees, and of the various fecre- 
tions of fluids through the gla ids in 
animals, and of feveral other effects of 
nature. 

ASH, or A3H-TREE, [Fra .] 
Mr. Boutcher enumerates the follow- 
ing fpecies, viz. Common afh ; Man- 
na afh ; Virginian flowering afh ; New- 
England afh, with fharp-pointed leaves; 
Carolina afh 5 White American afh; 



Blacl: American afh ; Red American 
afh; White-flowering afh; and the A!h 
with flrip'd leaves. 

Having gathered the keys of the com- 
mon afh, in fair weather, about the 
beginning of November, from hand- 
fome vigorous trees, fpread them in an 
airy loft or covered place, turning them 
frequently till quite dry, which, in a 
proper fituation, they will be in three 
or four weeks time ; then mix them 
with loofe fandy earth, and let them 
be protected from wet till the follow- 
ing fpring, when they ought to be fowa 
about tiie beginning of April, on well- 
prepared frefh mellow foil, on beds 
three feet and a half broad, with alleys 
eighteen inches between the beds, r.nd 
covered three quarters of an inch deep. 
Thefe feeds will not appear above 
ground till the fucceeoing fpring, du- 
ring which time it muft notwithffand- 
ing be kept quite clean, and as loofe 
and little poached as poffible ; and in. 
February, before the feeds begin to 
fpring, let the fur face of the ground 
be gently raked over, removing all 
murty and foggy particles they may 
have ccntrafted during the winter, and 
throw a little frefh rich mould eve? 
them, to replace what you have taken 
away, which will much promote the 
future growth of the plants. In this 
feminary the trees aie to remain only 
one year. 

In Oclober, as icon as their leaves 
are tarnifhed, remove them from this 
nurfery; and having pruned off, clefs 
by the body, all the flrong and ill- 
placed branches, ftili leaving a num- 
ber of fmall ones to attract and detain 
the fap for the augmentation of the 
trunk, plant them in another quaiter 
of any tolerable ground, in lines, three 
feet and a half afunder, and fifteen or 
fixteen inches in the line, where they 
may remain three years, obferving to 
dig the ground between the lines every 
fpring. 

I5y this time the trees, in an ordi- 
nary foil, will be about feven or eight 
feet high, flrong, well -rooted, and of 
a proper fize to make exten live planta- 
tions ; but where a fuccefhon of large 
ones are wanted, remove them ever/ 
fourth year, pruning their roots and 
bodies as formerly, watering them at 
planting, and three or four times af- 
terwards, in dry weather, every twelve 
or fourteen days, giving them greater 



ASH 



ASH 



intervals in proporticn to their fize; 
fioiii which management, they may be 
removed at any bulk you chufe them, 
w}t houl any fenfit le c ! :cfc. 

The a!h ought neither to be planted 
in gardens, near other trees, nor in any 
itions. There is no 
plant I remember, that fo foon, and fo 
much exhaufts the virtues of the foil ; 
and the fhade is malignant to every 
■ ion of the eart'i, being thus a 
ftep-dame to other trees : let them be 
ptanted in concert, where, notwith- 
standing thefe unfriendly qualities, if 
proj ti : . ■ . ill yi !d great 

profit to the owner in a few years. 

tree wii! grow in very fteril 
; the bieakeft and 
nu>ft e; itions 5 cu:inadeep 

mould, though 01 no generous quality, 
and where there is no ftanding water, 
It will quickly arrive to a great mag- 
nitude. 

Having prepared another quarter of 
good ground in the nurfery, in the 
fame manner as for the feed, the fol- 
lowing February or March, remove 
them ; keep them as fhort time as may 
he out of the ground, to prevent the 
fmal] fibres withering, and cut away 
only thedownright top-rcots; lay them 
in tiiiils, cut clown perpendicular with 
the fpade, as directed for other plants; 
let thefe drills be eighteen or twenty 
Inches afunder, ar.d plant them at the 
diftance of eight or nine inches in the 
dn'ii ; give tlTem a gentle watering at 
planting, and continue it three or four 
t:mes, at proper interval:., if the wea- 
ther is dry ; and here, giving them 
proper culture, let them remain two 
t'eafons. 

All the other kinds are propagated 
by budding them on the common afh, 
which being a large- growing hardy 
tice, will be a considerable improve- 
ment on the dwarnlh and tenderer 
forts. 

Mountain Ash. See S e r v i c ^ T r f. f . 
Ash Tree. [Ftax'mui cxcdy.r C. B. 
Fraxi/tusvulgatior y. i>.] The bark of 
this tree is a moderately flrong aftrin- 
gent, and as fuch has fometimes been 
made life of: the feeds, which aie 
fomewhat acrid, Lave teen employed 
as aperients. There are {o many ether 
medicines more agreeable, and more 
efficacious for thefe intentions, that all 
the parts of theaffi tree have long been 
neglected. 



ASHES, the earthy particles of com- 
buftible fubftanceSj remaining after 
they have been burnt. 

It' the afhes are produced from ve- 
getable bodies, they contain a confi- 
derable quantity of fixed fait, blended 
with the earthy particles, and from 
thefe particles the alcaline falts, called 
pot-aih, pearl-afh, &c. are extracted. 

Alhes of all forts contain in them a 
very rich fertile fait, and are feme of 
the bell manure to lay upon cold lands, 
e/pecially if kept dry; for one load of" 
dry afhes will go as far as two not 
kept fo. But as rain water dlminifhes 
tkeir falts, fo the moiftening them with 
ehamber-lie, or foap-fuds, will add 
greatiy to their ftrength. That the afhes 
of any fort of vegetables are very ad- 
vantageous to land, is what is experi- 
enced in moft places in England, by 
the improvement that is made by burn- 
ing of fern, flubhle, ftraw, heath, furze, 
fedge, beanstalks, &c. 

Coal Ashes are fingularly beneficial 
to ;liff and four land, for which pur- 
pofe they are fuccefsfuliy ufed in the 
neighbourhood of fome great cities, 
where coal is burnt for fuel. They 
open clayey grounds, and correct their 
bad qualities. 

Kiln Ashes, made of ftraw, furzs, 
&c. are a good manure for almoft any 
kind of foil; but they muft not be 
fpread in windy weather, becaufe they 
very light that they would beea- 
own away. « 

Peat Ashes are likewife a very good '* c ^ 
manure. Mr. Ellis has rightly obier- i'fyfiA 
ved, that there is a confiderable diffe- 
rence between the afhes of lean peat, 
and thofe produced by the fatter kind. 
If barley, fays he, be fown fo late as 
the beginning of May, lean peat afhes 
in particular may be applied over it, or 
harrowed in with the grain ; but afhes 
burnt from fat black peat, fuch as is 
dug at Newbury, are of fofulphureous 
a nature, that farmers are afraid to lay 
them on their barley ; nor do they drefs 
their wheat with them till the fpring 
is advanced, anc) then they are fown 
ever it.,?.' t/e£ $T S < J /> « - 

The earth of which tiffs rich manure 
is made, is taken from a black moorifh 
ground, with a narrow wood fcoop, 
which brings it out like a long brick. 
Thefe pieces of fwampy earth are laid 
on the ground to dry in the fummer ; 
after which they are fold for fuel. But 
when 



ASH 



ASH 



when they are to be ufed for manure, 
after being dried, they are burnt in 
heaps, laying on more peat upon the 
outrides, as the fire increafes within, to 
keep it from having too much vent. 

The great ufe of thefe afhes was 'iif- 
covered about 70 years ago ; but they 
foon fell into difrepute, owing to the 
injudicious management of people, who 
imprudently laid on too great quanti- 
ties of them at a time, by which means 
the corn was burnt. Afterwards they 
found that fix, or at mo ft ten bufhels, 
were fufficient to be fown over an acre 
of wheat, peafc, turnips, clover, rape- 
feed, or fainfoin, as e."rly as could 
conveniently be done. But f.ill mauy 
are afraid to fow them over barley, left 
a cry feafon Ihculd enfue, and bmn it 
up : fc r thefe aiV.es are thought to con- 
tain three times as much fuiphur as 
there is in coal afhes. This is reafon-i 
ably fuppofed from their very ftrong 
fulphureous fmell ; their fpavkli I 

jumping when flirred whiie burning, 
and their drying up corn by their too 
great heat. Thefe peat afhe;, as like- 
wife thofe of wood or ccal, will help 
to keep off the flug from peafe and o- 
ther grain, by the fait and fuiphur 
contained in them, and conduce very 
much to their prefervaticn in cold wet 
feafons. Eut no dsnger of over-heat- 
ing need be feared from the afhes of 
that peat which grows, as turf, over 
fandy bottoms, as great quantities do 
on Leighton-heath in Bedfordfhire ; for 
thefe are much too lean, and the others 
are too rank. 

1 he retfufe afhes which remain after 
the falts called Pot- afhes or Pearl-a(hes, 
are extracted, are alio ol great fer- 
vice to land ; but as they have been 
in a great rneafuie deprived cf their 
falts, it is neceffary to lay them on 
fomevvhat thicker than other afhes. 
They fhould always be mixed with 
feme other light ingredient which may 
be ufed in any quantity, if laid on very 
fiiff land. Jf the land be not over flirt", 
they may be laid upon it with kfs 
mixture. 

Scap Ashes are a competition of 
wood afhes and lime, remaining after 
the fcap-niakti's have drawn off their 
lye. 

They are an excellent manure for 
either arable or pafture land, They 
fhould be laid on pafture ground in the 
beginning of winter, that the rain may 



more eafily diffpive and wafh them in. 

A writer in the Mufeum RujUtum de- 
claims, that he has for many years palt 
received great benefit by ufing foap 
afhes a-, a manure, with which he al~ 
mo ft constantly drefies his wheat tandsj 
but never u^i it alone, on aci 
its hot burning quality. 

My method, adds he, is to make a 
large heap of dung and earth, that is, 
two loads of earth to one of dung, 
placed in alternate layers to ret. Af- 
ter this has under gone a tfiong iermen- 
taticn, 1 eaufe the whole heap to be 
tuined and well mixed, leaving it fome 
time longer to mellow. 

I then procure the foap afhes, and 
mix them with the comport, in the 
proportion of one load of afhes to ten 
of the compel*:, leaving, for fome time, 
the whole to mellow together. 

When wheat feed-time con.es, about 
the latter end of September, I caufe i - 
bout ten cart loads of this rich compoft 
to be laid in little heaps on e.ich acre 
of the land I intend to fow with wheat: 
this manure is immediately fpread, and, 
fowir.g my wheat broad cait, I plough 
it in together with the Compoft. 

The advantages arifing from this prac- 
tice, on ftifj foils, are many ; and par- 
ticularly, if the farmer is the leaft care- 
ful in preparing his tilth, he will have 
a clean crop, free from &nut o r weeds ; 
a matter of no fmall confequence to 
him. 

I have tried this manure en lighter 
lands, and find it anfwer extremely 
well, provided it has lain a confioera- 
ble time in the compoft heap, to mel- 
low and abate its natural heat ; but it 
agrees befi byfar with claj ■ i'oilsjand 
in fuch is well worthy cf being recom- 
mended as an excellent dreflVng for a 
whe.it crop. 

Turf Ashes, the afhes produced by 
burning turf, or the' pa rings of the fur- 
face of heathy and moorilh land. See 
the article Burn-Baking. 

'I he'e allies (in the moors of York- 
fhire, where, as the Rev. Mr. Comber 
informs us, they are greatly ufl-d, the 
principal firing being turf ) are carried 
out daily, or once in two or three day_5, 
to the dung-hill; and the farmer tikes 
the P] pen unity of his firfl leifure to- 
wards the end of the year, to carry- 
them oti'' to his me idow land, on w, hie?* 
he lays them thicker cr thinner, as h; 
has more or lefs land which he appre- 
hends 



p 



ASP 



bends to want them, or mere or lefs of 
them. The rlrft rains warn, them in, 
and the next fummer never fails to 
fhew their g">od effedr. 

In the moors of Yorkmire, the far- 
mer is fo fenfibleof the efficacy of thefe 
afn.es, that i: is become a proverb a- 
mong them, " The better fire, the 
ticher fanner.'' In confequenceof this 
principle, the farmer endeavours to 
procure all the alhes he can from the 
cottagers who have no land. And hence 
a happy connection arifes ; for the poor 
cottager finding the article of carriage 
the chief part of the expence of his 
fuel, is wife enough to bargain with 
the farmer to bring him home fuch a 
Quantity of turfs in confequence of his 
allies. 

[For a very particular account cf the 
nature of the Salt contained in thefe 
afJies, fee Columella's dilTertation on 
manures in the Farmer's Magazine.] 

ASI'ALATH. [Affekthus] bee 
Re s e Woon. 

ASPARAGUS, vulgarly called Sfar- 
wawgrafi. Mr. Miller gives us ten 
fpeeies of this plant, all cf which are 
ef toreign growth, but are preferved in 
the gardens of the curious, where they 
add to the variety, being not difficult 
to manage. In winter they fhould have 
a place among other exotic plants. 

The garden afparagns is propagated 
by lowing of the feed ; in the procu- 
ring of which, you fhould be particu- 
larly careful to get it from fome perfen 
of integrity ; or, if you have any op- 
portunity, fave it yourfelf, or in fome 
other neighbouring garden. In order 
to which a fufficient number of the 
faireft buds fhould be marked early in 
the fpring. The r e buds will, many of 
them, produce great numbers of red 
berries ; which fliould be fuffered to 
remain upon the branches until the lat- 
ter end of September, when the haulm 
will begin to decay; then cut off the 
branches, and (trip the berries into a 
ttih, where they may lie in an heap to 
fweatfor three weeks; by which means 
the outer iiufks will be rotten: then 
fill the tub with water, and break all 
tlve hufks, by fqueezing them between 
your hands. Thefe huflcs will all fwim 
uoon the water, but the feed will fink 
to the bottom ; fo that, by pouring off 
the water gently, the hufks will be car- 
ried along with it; and by putting 
freih water two or three times, and 



flirring your feed about, you will make 
it entirely clean; then fpread your feed 
upon a mat, and expofe it to the frm 
and air in dry weather, until it is per- 
fectly dry ; when you may put it into 
a bag, and hang it up in a dry place 
till the beginning of February; at which 
time you muft prepare a bed of good, 
rich earth, made very level, whereon 
you muft fow your feed, (but not too 
thick, which will caufe your plants to 
be fmall) and, having trod your feed 
into the ground, rake it over fmooth. 

In the following fummer keep it di- 
ligently cleared from weeds, which will 
greatly add to the ftrength of your 
plants ; and, towards the latter end 
of October, when the haulm is quite 
withered, you may fpread a little rot- 
ten dung over the furface of the ground, 
about an inch thick; which will pre- 
ferve the young buds from being hurt: 
by the frofts &c. 

The fpring following your plants 
fit to plant cut for good (for I 
would never chufe plants of more than 
one year's growth, having very often 
experienced them to take much better 
than older, and to produce finer roots) 
you muft therefore prepare your ground 
by trenching it well, burying therein a 
I lantity of rotten dung at the 
bottom of each trench, that it may lie 
at it ift fix in;hes below the furface of 
the ground : then level your whole plot 
very .. tacTly, t:. king out all large {tones ; 
but this fhould be done not long before 
you intend to plant your afparagus ; in 
which you muft be governed according 
to the nature of your foil, or the fea- 
fon ; for if your foil is dry, and the 
feafon forward, you may plant early in 
March ; but, in a very wet foil, it is 
better to wait till the middle of April ; 
which is about the feafon that the plants 
are beginning to (hoot. I know many 
people have advifed the planting cf af- 
paragus at Michaelmas ; but this I 
have experienced to be very wrong ; 
for in two different years I w as obliged 
to tranfplant large quantities at that 
feafon; but I had better have thrown 
away the plants; for. upon examina- 
tion, in the fpring, 1 found molt of 
the roots were grown mouldy, and de- 
caying : and, I am fure. not one in five 
of them fucceeded ; and thofe which 
did were fo weak, as not to be worth 
their Handing. 

The feafon being now come, you 
muft, 



ASP 



ASP 



muft, with a narrow pronged dung- 
fork, carefully fork up your roots, 
fhaking them out of the earth, and 
feparating them from each other ; ob- 
ferving to lay their heads even, for the 
more convenient planting them; which 
muft be performed in this manner : 
your plot of ground being levelled, 
you muft begin at one fide thereof, 
ranging a line very tight acrofs the 
piece; by which you muft throw up a 
trench exactly ftraight, and about fix 
inches deep ; into which you muft lay 
your roots, fpreading them with your 
fingers, and placing them upright a- 
gainft the back of the trench, that the 
buds may ftand forward, and be about 
two inches below the furface of the 
ground, and at twelve inches diftance 
from each other ; then, with a rake, 
draw the earth into the trench again, 
laying it very level, which will pre- 
ferve the roots in their right pofition : 
then remove your line a foot farther 
back, and make another trench in like 
manner, laying therein your plants, 
as before directed, and continuing the 
fame diftance row from row ; only ob- 
ferving, between every four rows, to 
leave the diftance of two feet and a 
half, for an alley to go between the 
beds, to cut the afparagus, &c. 

Your plot of ground being finifhed 
and levelled, you may fow thereon a 
a fmall crop of onions, which will not 
hurt your afparagus ; and tread in 
your feeds, rakingyourground level. 

There are fome perfons who plant 
the feed of afparagus in the place where 
the roots are to remain ; which is a 
good method, if it be performed with 
care. The way is this: — after the 
ground has been well trenched and 
dunged, they lay it level, and draw a 
line acrofs the ground (in the fame 
manner as is praftifed for planting of 
the young plants] then, with a dibble, 
make holes at a foot diftance ; into 
each of which you mult droptwo feeds, 
for fear one fhould mifcarry : thefe 
holes fhould not be more than half an 
inch deep : cover the feed by ftriking 
the earth in upon it ; and go on, re- 
moving the like a foot back for another 
row ; and, after four rows are finifhed, 
leave a fpace for an alley between the 
beds, if it is defigned to ftand for the 
natural feafon of cutting; but, if it is 
to betaken up for hot-beds, there may 
be fix rows planted in each bed ; and 



the diftance in the rows need not b* 
more than nine inches. This fhould be 
performed by the middle of February, 
becaufe the feeds lie long in the ground : 
but if onions are intended to be fown 
upon the ground, that may be perfor- 
med a fornight or three weeks after, 
provided the ground is not ftirred fo 
deep as to difturb the afparagus- 
feeds, in raking the onion-feed into 
the ground. 

As the roots of afparagus always 
fend forth many long fibres, which 
run deep into the ground ; fo, when 
the feeds are fown where they are to 
remain, thefe roots will not be broken 
or injured, as thofe muft be which are 
tranfplanted : therefore they will fhoot 
deeper into the ground, and make 
much greater progrefs ; and the fibres 
will pufh out on every fide; which 
will caufe the crown of the reot to be 
in the center ; whereas, in tranfplan- 
ting, the roots are made flat againlt the 
fide of the trench. 

When your afparagus is come up, 
and the onions have raifed their feed- 
leaves upright, (which will be in three 
weeks or a month after planting) you 
muft, with a fmall hoe, cut up all the 
weeds, and thin your crop of onions, 
where they may have come up in bun- 
ches ; but this muft be done carefully, 
and in dry weather, that the weeds 
may die as faft as they are cut up, be- 
ing careful not to injure the young 
fhoots of afparagus. This work muft 
be repeated about three times ; which, 
if well done, and the feafon not too 
wet, will keep the ground clear from 
weeds until the onions are fit to be 
pulled up, which is commonly in Au- 
guft ; and is known when their greens 
fall down, and begin to wither. When 
you have drawn off your onions, you 
muft clean your ground well from 
weeds; which will keep it clean till 
you earth your bed, which muft be 
in October, when the haulm begins to 
decay; for if you cut off the haulm, 
while green, the roots will fhoot frefh 
again, which will greatly weaken them. 
This young haulm fhould be cut off 
with a knife, leaving the ftems two or 
three inches above ground ; which 
will be a guide to you to diftinguifh 
the beds from the alleys ; then, with 
an hoe, clear off the weeds into the 
alleys, and dig up the alleys, burying 
the weeds in the bottom ; and throw 
I tht 



ASP 



ASP 



the earth upon the beds, fo that the 
beds may be about five inches above 
the level of the alleys : then you may 
plant a row ofcoleworts in the middle 
of the alleys ; but do not fovv or plant 
any thinj upon the beds, which would 
greatly weaken the roots : nor would 
I ever advife the planting of beans in 
the alleys (as is the practice of many) 
for it greatly damages the two outride 
rows of the afparagus. In this man- 
ner it ranft remain till fpiing, When 
you mull hoe over the beds, to deftroy 
all the young weeds ; then rake them 
fmooth, and obferve, all the fucceed- 
jng fu miner, to keep them clear from 
weeds ; and in October dig up the 
alleys again, as was before directed, 
earthing the beds, &c. 

The fecond lpring after planting, 
you may begin to cut fome of your 
afparagus, though it will be much bet- 
ter to flay until the third ; therefore 
now you muft fork up your beds with 
a flat pronged fork, made on purpofe, 
which is commonly called an afparagus 
fork: this muft be done before the 
buds fhoot in thefpring, and with care, 
left you fork tco deep, and bruifc the 
head of the root ; then rake the beds 
over fmooth juft before the buds ap- 
pear above ground ; which will de- 
stroy all young weeds, and keep your 
beds clean much longer than if left 
unraked, cr done fo foon as forked : 
and, when your buds appear about four 
or five inches above ground, you may 
then cut them; but it fhould be done 
fparingly, only taking the large buds, 
and fuffering the fmall to run up to 
ftrengthen the roots; for, the more 
you cut, the greater will be the increafe 
of buds ; but they will be fmaller, and 
the roots fooner decay. When you 
cut a bud, you muft open the ground 
with your knife (which fhould be very 
narrow and long in the blade, and 
filled with teeth like a favv) to fee 
whether any moreyoung buds are com- 
ing up clofe by it, which might be ei- 
ther broken or bruifed in cutting the 
other; then, with your knife, faw it 
off about three inches under-ground. 
This may appear a troublefome affair, 
to people unacquainted with the prac- 
tical part ; but to thofe who are em- 
ployed in cutting afparagus, will per- 
form a great deal of this work in a 
fhort time; but care in doing it is ab- 
folutely neceffary to be obfeived by all 
who cut afparagus. 



The manner of dreffing your afpara"- 
gus-beds is every year the fame as 
directed for the ftcond. 

Aspar/gus [Sarivus.] This plant 
is cultivated in gardens for culinary 
ufe. The roots have a bitterifh gluti- 
nous tafte, inclining to fweetnefs; the 
fruit has much the fame kind of tafte; 
young fhoots are more agreeable than 
either. Afparagus provokes appetite, 
but affords little nourifhment ; it gives 
a ftrcng ill fmell to the urine a little 
time after taking it, and for this rea- 
fon chiefly is fuppofed to be diuretic : 
it it likewife eiteemed aperient and 
deobftruent ; the root is one of the 
five called opening-roots. Some fup- 
pofe the fhoots to be moft efficacious ; 
others the root ; and others the bark 
of the root. Stahl is of opinion, 
that none of them have any great fhare 
of the virtues ufually afcribed to them. 
Afparagus appears from experience to 
contribute very little either to the ex- 
citing of urine when fupprefftd, or 
incteafing its difcharge ; and in cafes 
where aperient medicines generally do 
fervice, this has little or no effect. 

African Asparagus, [Medcola] of 
which there are three fpecies, which are 
freely propagated by offsets from their 
roots in July. They fhould be planted 
in pots, and may remain in the open air 
till there is danger of frofts, when they 
fhould be removed into fhelter. If they 
are placed in a warm green-boufe, they 
will thrive and flower very well ; but 
they feldom produce fruit unlefs they 
have fome heat in winter; therefore 
where that is defired, the plant fhould 
be placed in a ftove kept to a moderate 
degree of warmth. 

Asparagus-/-^, a flat pronged 
fork, make on purpofe to fork up the 
beds of afparagus. 

ASPECT, among gardeners, the 
fame with expofure. See the article 
Exposure. 

ASPEN-TREE, [Pcpulus] a fpecies 
of the Poplar-tree. The leaves are 
fmooth on both fides, and ftand upon 
long and (lender foot-ftalks, fo are 
fhaken by the leaft wind, from whence 
it was titled the Trembling Poplar, or 
Afpen-tree. 

It is cultivated in all refpects as the 
Abele-tree. See Abele-tree. 

ASPHODEL, or King's Spear, 
[Afphodelus.~\ There are five fpecies of 
this flower, which being pretty orna- 
ments 



ASS 



ASS 



ments for a garden, and requiring but 
little trouble to cultivate them, are the 
more acceptable. 

They may be propagated by their 
feeds, fown foon after they are ripe, on 
a border of frefh light earth. The 
plants will appear in fpring, and may 
be tranfplanted by the Machaelmas 
following into the flower - nurfery ; 
when the roots have acquired ftrength 
enough to produce flowers the follow- 
ing year, they fhould, when their leaves 
are decayed, be carefully taken up and 
tranfplanted in the flower-garden. 

African Asp hoi: el, or $p;der-zvor(, 
[Anthericum .] Mr. Miller enumerates 
ten fpecies. They are propagated by 
feeds, which fhould be fhown in au- 
tumn, in a bed of light fandy earth, 
in a warm fituation. In the follow- 
ing autumn, when their leaves decay, 
they fhould be carefully taken up and 
tranfplanted into the flower-garden, 
•where they will remain for years, if not 
killed by the fro ft ; to prevent which, 
fome rotten tan fhould be laid over the 
roots in winter, which will always fe- 
cure them. 

ASS, a creature well known in moft 
parts of Europe, and proves very ufc- 
ful in many refpecls, if taken proper 
care of. 

The horfe is trained up, great care 
is taken of him, he is inftrucled and 
exercifed ; while the poor afs is left to 
the brutality of the meanefi fervants, 
and the wantonnefs of children, that 
fo far from improving, he muff he a 
lofer by his education : and indeed 
had he not a large fund of good qua- 
lities, the manner in which he is trea- 
ted is fufficient to exhauft them. He 
is the fport, the but, and the drudge 
of the vulgar ; who, without theleafl 
thought or concern, drive him along 
with a cudgel, beating, over-loading, 
and tiring him. We do not remember, 
that, if there were no horfes, the afs 
would beconfidered, both with regard 
to himfelf and us, as the moft ufeful, 
moft beautiful, and moft diftinguifhed 
of animals. Inftead of being the firft, 
he is now the fecond; and from this 
accident alone, he is held in no efti- 
mation. It is the comparifon that de- 
grades him : he is confidered, not in 
himfelf, but relatively to a horfe. We 
forget that he is an afs 5 that he has all 
the qualities of his nature, all the 
gifts annexed to his fpecies ; and think 



only on the figure and qualities of 
the horfe which are wanting in him, 
and which it would be improper for 
him to have, 

By his natural temper he is as hum- 
ble, as patient, and as quiet, as the 
horfe is proud, fiery, and impetuous; 
he bears with firmnefs, and pethaps 
with courage, blows and chaftifements. 
He is fober, both with regard to the 
quantity and quality of his food, con- 
tenting himfelf with the molt harfh and 
difagreeable herbs, which the horfe, 
and other animals, will not touch. In 
water he is very nice, drinking only 
of that which is perfectly clear, and at 
brooks with which he is acquainted. 

The afs, though a contemptible 
creature, is very ferviceable to many 
that are not able to buy or keep horfes ; 
efpecially where they live near heaths 
or commons, the barrenneft of which 
will keep them, being contented with 
any trafh, dry leaves, ftalks, thirties, 
briars, chaff, and any fort of flraw is 
excellent food for them ; they require 
very little looking after, and will fuf- 
tain labour, hunger, and thirft, beyond 
moft creatures. They are feldom or 
never lick ; and endure longer than 
any other creature. They may be 
made ufe of to plough light lands, to 
carry burthens, to draw in mills, for 
which they are very excellent, to fetch 
water, or any other odd things. They 
are very ufeful for their milk, which 
is an excellent reftorative in confump- 
tions, and other weakneffes : but they 
would be of much more advantage 
were they ufed, as they are in foreign 
countries, for the breeding of mules. 
See the article Mule. 

Wild An. See Zebra. 

ASSART, in law, an offence com- 
mitted in a foreft, by pulling up trees 
by the roots. This is a greater trefpafs 
than wafte. A perfon however may 
fue out a licence to aflart ground in a 
foreft ; that is, to clear it and make it 
arable ; and from thence lands are 
called afiarted; and formerly affart 
rents were paid to the crown for fuch 
lands. 

ASSAYING, of weights and mea . 
fures ; the examining the common 
weights and meafures by the clerk of 
the market. 

ASSIGN, a perfon to whom a thing 
is affigned, or made over. • <ix' 

ASSIGNEE, a perfon appointed by 
J 2 another 



ATM 



ATM 



another to do an act, tranfact fome 
bufinefs, or enjoy a particular com- 
modity. 

ASSIGNMENT; the transferring 
the intereft one has in a leafe, or other 
thing, to another perfon ; and this 
may be of lands in fee for life or years, 
of annuity, rentcharge, &c. 

ASSIMILATION, that motion by 
which bodies convert other bodies re- 
lated to them, or at leaft fuch as are 
prepared to be converted, into their 
own fubftance and nature. Thus all 
the parts, as well fimilar as organical, 
in vegetables and animals, nrft attract 
with fome election or choice, nearly 
the fame common, or not very different 
juices for aliment, and afterwards af- 
fimilate, or convert them into their 
own nature. 

ASTER, Star-wort. Mr. Miller rec- 
kons thirty fpecies of this flower ; the 
greater part of which are propagated 
by parting the roots as foon as they 
have done flowering. Thefe roots 
fhould not be removed oftener than 
every third year, where they are ex- 
pected to produce many flowers. 

The China Afters are propagated by 
fowing the feed in the fpring upon a 
gentle hot-bed juft to bring up the 
plants, for they fhould be inured to 
the open air as foon as poffible, to pre- 
vent their being drawn up weak. From 
the hot-bed they fhould be removed to 
a bed of rich earth for a month or five 
weeks, and then into the flower- 
garden. 

The feeds ripen the beginning of 
October, which fhould be gathered 
when it is perfectly dry ; and in order 
to preferve the kinds with double flow- 
ers, there fhould be great care taken 
to fave thofe which grow upon the fide 
branches, which are commonly fuller 
of leaves than the flowers on the main 
item. 

ASTEROIDES, Bafiard Starwort, 
commonly called YelLw Starioort. See 
Elecampane. 

ATMOSPHERE, the vaft body or 
collection of air which furrounds the 
earth to a very confiderable height, 
and is admirably fitted for the refpi- 
ration and nourifhment of aninals, the 
growth of vegetables, &c. 

Clouds, which are precipitated in 
drops of rain, for the fervice of man- 
kind, do not confift wholly of watery 
particles j forbefides aqueous vapours, 



and what thefe contain, there are railed 
from the furface of the earth into the 
air, fulphureous and faline particles, 
which are alfo carried up into the 
clouds, and mixed with the aqueous 
vapours. Here we have a mixture of 
all fuch fubftances, as it were, in their 
extremely fmall parts, floating in the 
air together, and the effects of thefe 
fulphureous and faline particles thus 
mingled with aqueous vapours, are 
fometimes very fenfible, especially in 
thunder and lightening; when the ful- 
phureous and nitrous particles taking 
fire, by the motion arifing from heat, 
break out with the violence of flafhes 
and noife, very much refembling the 
effects of gun-powder. 

Since it is plain, that there is a vaft 
quantity of nitrous, fulphureous, and 
bituminous matter all over the furface 
of the earth, and that plants and ani- 
mals abound with volatile falts, we 
need not wonder that the heat of the 
fun fills the air with fuch fine parti- 
cles, and all forts of unctuous exha- 
lations, by firft expanding them, after 
which they rife till they meet with air 
and other mixtures of the fame fpeci- 
fic gravity. What are ufually called 
ignes fatui, feem to confift of a more 
unctuous fubftance than other exha- 
lations, for we find their oily particles 
are eafily fixed, but not fo foon fpent 
as thofe of fulphur and nitre. Shoot- 
ing ftars are improperly fo called, be- 
caufe they are nothing more than ex- 
halations kindled in the air. 

Thus we plainly fee how full the at- 
mofphere is of thefe rich ingredients 
for the bufinefs of vegetation ; and 
becaufe they are of fuch vaft confe- 
quence to the growth of plants, we 
will enumerate the fources of them 
upon the frame of the globe; from 
whence the fun and wind borrow them, 
in order to difperfe them properly in 
the air, that they may intimately mix, 
and defcend with the rain drops, and 
fo being conveyed to the mouths of 
the fibres tubes of plants. 

Salts are of various kinds, but all 
have a fharp pungent tafte, though 
not all alike ; and of thefe fome are 
dug out of the earth like ftone out of 
a quarry ; others are made by art, by 
letting the fea-water into fhallow pits 
on the fhore, and continue there till 
the aqueous particles are exhaled by 
the fun and wind, and then the fait 
remains 



ATM 

remains at the bottom. The fait is in 
its nature the fame in both cafes ; for 
the faline particles are not made by 
art in the combination of ingredients 
to imitate it ; they are only feparated 
from the watery particles wherein 
they floated. The qualities of this 
excellent ingredient in vegetation are, 
that it eafily diffolves, and melts rea- 
dily in the open air, if it be refined 
from all heterogeneous matter ; when 
the water wherewith it is entangled is 
any ways drawn off, there remains a 
grofs fediment, but the finer parts are 
carried away with it ; this fediment 
the fire cannot melt, but reduces it to 
a calx. 

This facility of the finer parts fwim 
ming, as they are, fpecifically lighter 
than water, contributes to the benefit 
of plants ; or rather thefe fine faline 
particles are of the fame fpecific gta- 
vity with the water ; that they may 
intimately mix with it, and be carried 
in thofe vapours through all the necef- 
fary ltages, till they return to the earth 
again. This quality of melting and 
diffolving in water and air, fets the 
finer parts at liberty, and prepares 
them to take wing with the common 
exhalations. And yet the fediment, 
or groffer parts, left behind, have their 
excellent ufes in helping the embiios 
of plants to fend out their fibrous 
tubes, in fearch after more refined 
particles, which either adhere to the 
fuperficies of the particles of earth, or 
are contained in their internal pores. 

Nitre, of which there are feveral 
forts, natural and artificial, the former 
refining itfelf, and the latter refined 
by art, is a kind of fait which ealily 
takes fire, but likefea-falt is eafily re- 
duced to a calx. The vapours, or 
particles of nitre, when they defcend 
for the ufe of plants, are found to 
contain abundance of fpirits ; for the 
nitre, as a fait, is impregnated with 
them, which render it volatile, and 
the fluid, cr fpirit, extracted from it, 
is very (harp and corrofive. The calx 
to which nitre is reducible, as well as 
the calx cf common fait, has its ex- 
cellent ufe in vegetation ; and when it 
is reduced by fire to this ftate, it then 
takes the name of fixed fait. 

Sulphur, is a liquid clammy fub- 
fiance, whofe parts arefoon feparated, 
and rife up into the air with other 
vapours, and foon occafions violent 



ATM 

motions in tlie atmofphere, and be- 
comes entombed in the aqueous par- 
ticles, and is with the rain brought 
down to the plants. 

Bitumen is pretty much of the fame 
nature with fulphur, and with it is 
in great plenty in moft bodies, but 
in the moll remarkable manner, and 
in the greateft quantities, in pit-coal. 

Naptha is a kind of bitumen, and 
the only difference is, that it takes fire 
fooner than bitumen is obferved to do, 
and is not fo eafily quenched ; and this 
facility of admitting the heating par- 
ticles, which throw thefe inflamma- 
tory bodies into a fpeedy motion in- 
ternally, is of great ufe in the diffe- 
rent degrees of the plant's growth. 

Maltha feems to be a fpecies of nap- 
tha ; its properties, as they appear to 
common obfervations, are, that if it 
touches, it flicks fo faft to it, as not 
eafily to be feparated; and water 
thrown on it in moderate quantities, 
does but the more inflame it, and earth 
alone is able to quench it. This va- 
luable ingredient, when it defcends in 
the drops of rain, adheres very inti- 
mately to the internal parts of the foil, 
both in the fuperficies and the concave 
parts of the pores; and other defcents 
of rain increafe the motion of the in- 
ternal parts of the particles of mal- 
tha, and thereby promote a fine dila- 
tation in the tubular interfaces of the 
fibres of plants, and duly contribute 
to the acceleration of that motion in 
them, which is neceffary to the diffe- 
rent fiages of their growth and nou- 
rishment. Before the fine parts of the 
maltha are in readinefs, or duly pre- 
pared by moiflure, and their well re- 
gulated fermentation, and while it is 
waiting for the defcent of more rain, 
it is divefled of all internal motion, 
and confined as a prifoner, till the 
other requisites to the plant's welfare 
are properly aifembled, and ready ta 
perform their offices. 

Thefe are the chief materials which 
give motion to plants, and of which 
the latter are found to confift, when 
they are analiztd, unfolded, or fepa- 
rated into their competent parts by 
chemiflry. 1 he profeffors of that art 
call the volatile fpirits, fulphur, and 
faline particles, the active principles ; 
becaufe thefe, when duly prepared, 
and exactly applied to the mouth of 
the fibres, become the fole agents, and 

by 



A T M 



AUG 



by their continual motion, caufe the 
whole aflion of the plant. 

The vapours thus raifed from the 
furface of the earth, become the oii- 
;.;inal matter of all meteors, or hete- 
rogeneous fubftances, fit for the pro- 
duction cf the vegetable world ; and 
confequently an instrument in ;he wife 
appointment of Divine Providence, 
for the prefervation of man, and all 
Subordinate animals. When thefe he- 
terogeneous vapours are thus lifted 
up above the earth, cne degree of cold 
condemns them into larger globules, 
which then becoming fpecificially hea- 
vier than the atmofphere, fall in drops 
of rain, and bring down all thofe trea- 
sures entombed in them. A greater de- 
gree of cold produces a coagulation 
of the heterogeneous vapours, which 
Shoot like falts in various forms, uni- 
ted into certain angles, and make the 
'.lakes of mow, which Still contain the 
nutritive principles. 

A third, or Still greater degree of 
cold, combines the -vapours into, a 
harder fubftance, wherein the valuable 
ingredients arc entombed, and they de- 
scend in what we call hail ; but if the 
cold condenfes the vapours before they 
rife high above the furface of the earth, 
they will be unable to afcend, but will 
hover about, and fill the lower part of 
the atmofphere with what is ufually 
called a fog, or mift ; if the cold be 
itill more intenfe, the mift is frozen 
to every twig and blade of grafs in 
form of a white incrultation, which is 
called lime. When the air in the day- 
time is warm, and the vapours buoyed 
up in it are too fine to be then visible, 
they will be condenfed by the coolnefs 
of the evening, and cefcend on the 
vegetables in the fcrm of dew : and 
if the evening of fuch a fine day be 
cold enough to freeze, then inftead of 
a dew, the furface of the ground will 
be covered with what is commonly 
called a white froft. Thefe are the 
various ways appointed to bring down 
again upon the earth thetreafures that 
were taken from it, in order to be 
prepared and properly fpread over the 
globe, by methods and contrivances 
equally beautiful and furprizing. 

But among the riches of the atmo- 
fphere for the production of vegeta- 
bles, we muff not forget the confe- 
quences which the air itfelf is of to 
them, as we have already obferved 
under the article of Air. 



ATTAINT, among farriers, a hurt 
in a horfe's leg, proceeding either from a 
blow with another horfe's foot, or from 
an ove, -teach by an horfe's Striking the 
caulk oFliishinc! hoeagair.fi hi fore leg 

ATTORNMENT, is the tenant's 
acknowledgement of a new lord, by 
becoming his tenant. 

AVENGAE, [from atwra,] Signifies 
a certain quantity of oats paid to a 
landlord in lieu of fome other duties, 
or as a rent from the tenant. 

AVENUE, a walk planted on each 
fide with trees, leading to an houfe, 
wood, &c. 

The old method of planting avenues 
was with regular lows of trees, and 
this has been always obferved till of 
late; but we have now introduced a 
much more magnificent way of plant- 
ing avenues : this is by letting the trees 
in clumps or platoons, making the o- 
pening much wider than before, and 
placing the clumps of trees about three 
hundred feet diftant from one another. 
In each of thofe clumps there fhould 
be planted either feven or nine trees ; 
but it is to be obferved, that this is 
only to be pracYifed where the avenue 
is to be of fome considerable length ; 
for, in Short walks, this will not ap- 
pear fo Sightly as Single rows of trees. 
The aventes made by clumps are fit- 
test of all for parks. The trees in 
each clump Should be planted thirty 
Sect afunder, and a trench fhould be 
thrown up round the whole clump, 
to prevent the deer from coming to 
the trees to bark them. 

AVENS. See Herb Bennet. 

AVER, a general name for a la- 
bouring beaft of any kind. 

AVERAGE, a term ufed by the 
Farmers in fome part of England for 
the Hubble of corn fields after harveft ; 
when this is common to the tenants 
the land is called average-land : ave- 
rage likewife Signifies an antient Ser- 
vice which the tenant owed to his lord 
by horSe or carriage. 

AVER-CORN, a name formerly 
given to the corn conveyed to the 
lord's granaries by the tenants. 

AVER-LAND, the land ploughed 
by the tenants for the ufeof their lord. 

AUGUST, is the eighth month of 
the civil year, and contains 31 days. 

We (hall obferve the fame method in 
giving the gardener's kalendar for this 
month as we adepted for April. 



AUG 



AUG 



Products of the Kitchen-garden. 
Cabbages, kidney - beans, feveral 
kinds of peas, artichokes, garden- 
beans, carrots, cabbage lettuces of fe- 
vera! forts, finnochia, ctkry, turneps, 
cucumbers, melons, onions, purflane, 
all forts of young falkt herbs, fome 
late cauliflowers, endive, forrel, baum, 
burnet, marigolds, beet, fpinnch, po- 
tatoes, mufhroons, tomato?, haul, 
thyme, favory, marjoram, clary, mint, 
fage, rofemary, lavender, hyifup, cap- 
ficums for pickling, cucumbers for 
pickling, large-rooted parfley, fennel, 
dill, fprouts from cabbage-ftalks, card 
beet, cicers, radifhes, fcorzonera, horfe 
radifh, nafturtinm indicum, the flow- 
ers forfallets and the feeds for pickling, 
pumkins, gourds, parfnsps, and fome 
other forts. 

Fruits in prime. 
Apples ; the fummer white ccuflin, 
margar-t apple, codlin, fummer pear- 
main, fummer pipin, and fome others. 

Pears ; the Jargonelle, Windfor, 
cuiffe madame, orange mufk, grofs 
blanquette, mufk blanquette, long- 
ffalked blanquette, poir fans pea, 
mufcat rabine, amber pear, green o- 
range, cafiblette, magdalen pear, grofs 
oignonet, poir rofe, fummer boncre- 
tion, cailot rofat, petit rufl'elet, with 
fome others of lefs note. 

Peaches ; red and white magdalen, 
early Newington,the migncnne or mi- 
nion, Italian peach, noblefl, bellows 
or bellis, violette hative, la chevreufe 
or belle chevreufe, early admirable, 
albemarle, nivette peach, montaubon, 
royal George, purple alberege, chan- 
cellor, bourdine, with fome oihers. 

Nectarines ; Roman red, elruge, 
newington, brugnon, Italian and 
inurray- 

Plums; Orleans, white perdrigon, 
violet perdrigon, red imperial, white 
imperial or bonum magnum, leroy- 
a!e, cheflun plum, drap d'or, St. Ka- 
tharine, roch courbon, reine claude, 
commonly called in England green 
gage, la mirabelle, apricct plum, prune 
monfieur, maitre claude, royale dau- 
phin, with fome others. 

Grapes; the July, white fv.ee t- 
water, black clufter, munier, chaf- 
felas, white mufcadine, white fran- 
kindal, black fweet-water, and Or- 
leans. 

Figs ; the early white, long blue, 
long white, black ifchia, brown or 
chefnut ifchia, large yellow ifchia, 



green with white flefli, green with 
purple ficfh, and green with red flefh, 
Brunlwidk, Malta, black Naples, and 
Cyprus fig. 

Filberts, nuts, mulberries, alpine, 
flrawberry, goofeberries, currants, 
black cherry, Hertfordshire cherry, 
amber, and Morello cherries; melons, 
and in t!ie ftove the anana or pine ap- 
ple, and the mufa. 

Plants now in flow &■ in the Pleafure 
Garden. 

Some carnations, painted lady pink, 
oldman's-head pink, female baifamine, 
marvel of Peru, ainaranthufes, gom- 
phrenas, feveral forts of Aarwort, gol- 
den rods of feveral kinds, fcarlet and 
blue cardinal's flowers, campanula of 
feveral forts, hollyhocks, colchicum of 
ciiio, autumnal cyclamtns, greater 
convolvulus of feveral forts, flos ado- 
nis, Venus looking-glafs, Venus na- 
velvvoit, Africans, and French mary- 
gold, fweet fultans, Indian fcabious, 
nigellas, candy tuft, apocynums, fweet 
pea, tangierpea, everlafling peas, fun- 
flowers of many kinds, lavateras, 
mallows of feveral forts, linarias, cen- 
tauries, ketmia, veficariaof four kinds, 
Ammoniums, tubercles, fclareas, ge- 
raniums, lychnifes, annual flocks. Mat - 
taria lutea, double ptannica, xeran- 
themums, two or three forts of mari- 
golds from the Cape of Good Hope, 
onagras, lylimachias, veronicas, au- 
tumnal hyacinth, globe-thiflles, dwarf 
annual (lock, naflurtinm indicum, 
fairclflld s mule, Virginian fpiderwort, 
catanance quorundam, carahan'ce flora 
luteo, el i cry f urn Americanum, flce- 
chas citrina, double feverfew, coro- 
nilla heibacea, chryfanthemums, cryn- 
giums, glauciums, afclepias or fwal- 
lowwort with white, yellow, and black 
flowers, periplocas, capnoides, or e- 
vergreen fumitory, aconiti:m lycoc- 
tonum luteum, aconitum falutiferum, 
Napellus cceruleus, alceas, helianthe- 
mums, double fopewort, argemonne 
Mexicana, antirrhinums, lupines of 
feveral forts, lavendula folio diffeclo, 
iris uvaria, cerinthe with purple and 
yellow flowers, Perficaria. orientalis, 
lis of feveral forts, limoniums, 
dracocephalum, molucca Isevis 8c. fpi- 
nofa, foianums of various kinds, me- 
3, hedyfarumSj phalangiums, 
oriental buglos, alyfiums, ambroha 
of three forts, bafll, capiicum, palma 
Chrifli, tobacco, clinopodium Virgi- 
nianum. 



AUG 



AVI 



hianum, commelina, China ftarwort 
with fingle, and double red, blue, and 
white flowers, monarda of three forts, 
trachelium umbelliferum, convolvulus 
minor with white, blue, and ftriped 
flowers, hawk-weeds of divers forts, 
purple fenecio, feveral forts of ononis, 
fome forts of aftragalus, Canary laven- 
der, feveral forts of vervain, echiums, 
globularia, collinfonia, poliums, fpi- 
gelia, lychnideas, perennial blue lu- 
pine, eupatoriums, dianthera, rudbec- 
kia of feveral forts, ruyfchiana, acan- 
thus, cirflums, greater centuary, car- 
thamus, glycine, perennial fumitories 
of feveral forts, s;naphaliums, lunarias, 
chryfocoma, three or four forts of 
bupthalmum, zinnia, gaura, orobus 
tragopogon of two or three forts, 
fcorzonera, bifferula, clitoria, hibif- 
cus of feveral forts, haemanthus, with 
fome others. 

Hardy trees and flirubs notv in flower. 

Common white jeffamine, paffion 
flower,periploca,fcorpionfenna, fhrub- 
by althaea of feveral forts, agnus caf- 
tus, honeyfuckles, mallaw-tree, fhrub- 
by Canary hypericum, (linking flirub- 
by hypericum, lauruftinus, double 
virgin's bower, bignonia or trumpet- 
flower, angelica-tree, magnolia or 
laurel-leaved tulip tree, traveller's- 
joy, mufk roie, bladder fenna of three 
forts, Spanilh broom, ciftufes of feve- 
ral kinds, phlomifes, celaftrus, fu- 
mach of feveral forts, double and fin- 
gle pomegranate, cytifufes of three or 
four forts, catalpa, clethra, itea, dier- 
villa, hydrangea, lotus of two or three 
forts, fpireas, prinos, feveral forts of 
dyers-broom, tamarifk, medicago fru- 
tefcens, periciymenum Virginianum, 
azalea, kalmia, rhododendron, and- 
romeda, azederach, kidney-bean-tree, 
cafhioberry-bufh, thymclea, toxico- 
dendron, fpartiums, geniftas, with 
fome others. 

Medical plants which may r.oiu be 
gathered far life. 

Beat's-breech, vervain mallow, gar- 
lick, dill, nightfhade, bifhopfweed- 
feed, love-apple, vervain, goofeberry, 
arum or cuckow-pentle-roots, Italian 
ftarwort, yellow ftarwort, golden rod, 
bafil, fummer favory, briony-berries, 
navevv-roots, honey-fucklc, capiicum 
or Indian pepper, fafflower, knot- 
grafs, nettle-feed, onion-feed, fleawort, 
cornelian cherry, coriander-feed, car- 
rot feed, endive, arfefmait, jafmine- 



flowers, glaffwort, lupine, marjoram, 
tobacco, poppyheads, ftcechas or 
French lavendar, thorn-apple. 

Plants in JJoiver in the Green-houfe 
and Sto-ve. 

Geraniums of feveral kinds, mefem- 
brianthemi of various kinds, ftepalia 
of two forts, feveral forts of aloes, 
fedums, cotyledons, myrtles, oranges, 
ciftufes, colutea, aethiopica, feveral 
forts of paffion-flower, fenfitive-plant, 
humble-plant, Indian figs, orleanders, 
alceas, ketmias of feveral forts, hse- 
mantkufes, cardinal-flower, Egyptian 
fea lavender, leonurus minor - , ardro- 
tufes, St. John's-wort of Minorca, 
iattropha of feveral forts, quamoclit, 
Spanifh jafmine, Arabian jafmine, 
azorian jafmine, Indian yellow jaf- 
mine, laurel-leaved jafmine, apoci- 
nums, acacias, fena Alexandria, caf- 
fias of feveral forts, hedyfarums, eli- 
chryfums, Indian nafturtiums with a 
double flower, ragwort, dorias, fene- 
cio folio retufo, canna Indica, fabagos, 
trachelium umbellatum azurium, li- 
monium afplenii folio, limonio ficu- 
lum gallas ferens, tuinera, convolvu- 
lufes of feveral forts, plumeria, phyto* 
laca, piercea, poliums, folanums, lo. 
tus argentea cretica, martynia, Indian 
arrow-root, ceftrums, bafella, cotton- 
plant, indico plant, guava, coftus ara- 
bjcus, eupatoriums, buphthalmums, 
carica papaya, conyzas, cereufes, eu- 
phorbii, melon thirties, diofma of 
three forts, blue flowering fage from 
the Cape, crinum, pancratjums, limo- 
dorum, kempfera, clitoria, fpigelia, 
pafl'erina, royer.ia, arum fcandens, 
waltheiia, polyanthes, fida, caper, chi- 
ronia, China chafle-tree with cut 
leaves, feveral forts of ricinus, croto- 
larias, ononifes, malphighia, cacalia 
of two cr three forts, grewia, vulkha- 
meria, black flowering lotus, milleiia 
two forts, guanabanus or four fop, 
cornutia, tournefortia, fhrubby poly- 
gala, hermannias, faururus,plumbago, 
wackendorfia, ambrofia from Peru, 
d'ayena, fhrubby heliotropium of Pe- 
ru, blue branching ftarwort from A- 
frica, erhetia, robinia, trandefcantia, 
commelina, wormwood-tree, Canary 
convolvulus, fhrubby convolvulus, 
bignonias, lantana of feveral forts, 
forrel-tree, toxicodendron, craffuluj, 
cyanella, with fome others. 

AVIARY, a plant fet a part to feed 
a nd propagate birds. An Aviary fhould 

b* 



A V O 



A V O 



• be large enough to allow the birds a 
considerable freedom of flight, and tur- 
fed, to avoid the appearance of foul- 
nefs on the floor. 

AVIGNON Berries, commonly called 
Trench berries, or yellow berries, the 
fruit of the evergreen privet. See 
Evergreen Privet. 

AULM, an old word for Elm. 

AUMBRY. See Ambry. 

AVNCZL freight, that is, Hand-fale 
•weight, an ancient kind of ballance, 
now out of ufe, being prohibited by 
feveral rtatutes, on account of the ma- 
ny deceits pradlifed by it. The perfon 
who weighed the goods lifted the beam 
with his finger or his hand, and confe- 
quently had it often in his power to 
make either fcale preponderate, 

AVQCAt>0,or AvogatoPear, [Per/eg] 
This is a native of the Weft-India If- 
lands, and is fo called from its fruit, 
which in form and thicknefs refembles 
a pear. 

The pulpy orflefhy part of the fruit 
is of a pale green, with little or no 
confidence when ripe, and melts in 
the mouth like marrow, which it 
greatly refembles in tafte.— The fkin 
is fmooth and thin, but of a ftrong 
tough fubftance, and of a beautiful 
green colour, which does not become 
yellow till the fruit is perfectly ripe. — 
The fruit, by reafon of its foftnefs, 
may be eaten out of the furrounding 
fkin with a tea-fpoon, like jelly and 
marmalade. It is frequently ferved 
up in the Weft-Indies, on a plate, with 
fugar, rofe-water, and orange-flowers ; 
moft commonly, however, it is mixed 
with fugar, and the juice of limes, 
which render it extremely palatable. 

The unripe fruit too is frequently 
plucked and eaten in thin flices, with 
pepper and fait. In this ftage, the tafte 
of the avogato greatly refembles that 
of artichokes. Every preparation of 
this fruit is efteemed highly nourifh- 
ing ; as it warms, exhilarates, and for- 
tifies the ftomach.— It is particularly 
recommended in dyfenteries. 

In the middle of the pulpy part of 
the fruit lies the nut or feed, which is 
very large, almoft round, of a pale ruf- 
fet colour, a little wrinkled, contains 
no kernel within it, and whofe degree 
of hardnefs does not exceed that of a 
chefnut diverted of its fkin. This nut, 
about an hour after it is feparated from 
the fruit, fplits of itfelf into two or three 



pieces. If committed to the ground in 
this ftate, no vegetation enfues, becaufe 
the embryo of the feed is broken 5 fo 
that fuch as would propagate thefe 
plants from fe?d, muft fow the nuts 
the moment they are taken out of the 
pulp ; in which cafe they will begin to 
germinate in eight or ten days after. 

The bark and wood of this tree, 
which rifes to a confiderable height, 
are of a greyifh colour. The leaves are 
long, pointed, of a fubftance like lea- 
ther, and of a beautiful green colour. 
Theflowers are produced in largeknots 
or clufters, at the extremities of the 
branches, and confift each of fix pe- 
tals difpofed in the form of a ftar, and 
of a dirty white, or yellow colour, with 
an agreeable odour, which diffufes it- 
felf to a confiderable diftance. The 
tree begins to bear fruit two years and 
a half, or at moft three years after be- 
ing planted; and, like moft of the trees 
in warm climates, bears twice a year. 
The buds of the avocado pear-tree are 
faid to be ufed with fuccefs in ptifans 
againft the venereal difeafe. An infufi on 
of them in water, drank in the morn- 
ing falling, is ftrongly recommended 
for diflodging coagulated blood in the 
ftomach, produced by a fall, or a fe- 
vere ftroke on that important entrail. 
" The wild boars in the Eaft-Indies," 
fays Labat, " eat greedily of the mam- 
mees and avocado pears, which give 
their flefh a lufcious and moft agreea- 
ble favour." 

In Europe this plant is preferved as 
a curiofity, by thofe perfons who de- 
light in collecting exotic plants ; and 
though there is little hope of its pro- 
ducing fruit, yet for the beauty of its 
fhining green leaves, which continue 
through the winter, it deferves a place 
in every curious collection of plants. 

It is propagated by feeds, which 
fhould be obtained as frefh as poffibJe, 
from the countries of its growth ; and 
if they are brought over in fand, they 
will be morelikely to grow, than fuch 
as are brought over dry. Thefe nuts 
or feeds fhould be planted in pots filled 
with light earth, and plunged into a 
hot-bed of tanners bark. In about five 
or fix weeks the plants will come up, 
when they muft, while young, be trea- 
ted very tenderly ; but when they have 
grown about four ip.ches high, they 
mould be carefully tranfplanted ; and 
if there are two or more plants in one 
K. pot. 



A U R 



A U R 



pot, they muft be parted, being careful 
60 preferve a ball of earth to the root 
of each, and planted into feparatefmall 
pots, then plunged into a hot-bed of 
tanners bark, obferving to (hade them 
until they have taken new root; after 
■which time they fhould have frefh air 
admitted to them in proportion to the 
warmth of the feafon. Towards Mi- 
chaelmas the plants muft be removed 
into the ftove, and plunged into the 
bark-bed, where, during the winter 
feafon, they fhould be kept warm, and 
mufl be gently watered twice a week. 
In the fpring the plants fhould be fhif- 
tedinto potsafize larger than the for- 
mer, and the bark-bed fhould be then 
renewed with frefh tan, which will 
fet the plants in a growing ftate early, 
whereby they will make a fine progrefs 
the following fummer. Thefe plants 
fhould be kept in the ftove, for they are 
too tender to bear the open air in this 
country, except in the warmeit part of 
fnmmer. 

AVOIRDUPOIS, a weight of fix- 
teen ounces in the pound, by which all 
things that have a refufe, orwafte, are 
commonly weighed. 

AURICULA, or Bear's Ear, vulgarly 
called Rkcolus, [JuriculaUrfi]. To enu- 
merate the varieties of this plant, would 
be almoft endlefs and impoffible, for 
every year produces vaft quantities of 
new flowers, differing in fhape, fize, or 
colour of the flowers ; and alfo in the 
leaves of thefe plants there is fo <*ren 
a variety, that the fkilful florift is often 
capable of diftinguifhing the particular 
varieties thereby. 

But as it feldom happens, that fuch of 
thefe flowers as are at one time in great 
elteem, continue to be regarded a few 
years after, (there being frill finer or 
larger flowers produced from feeds, 
which are what the fiorifts chiefly feek 
after), it would be needlefs to mention 
any of them ; wherefore I fhall pro- 
ceed to give the characters of a good 
auricula. 

1. The ftemof the flower fhould be 
lofty and flrong. 

2. Thefoot-ftalksofthefingle flower 
fhould be fhort, that the umbel may be 
regular and clofe. 

3. The pipe or neck of each flower 
fhould be fhort, and the flowers large, 
and regularly fpread, being no ways 
inclinable to cup. 

4. That the colours are very bright, 
and well mixed. 



5. That the eye of the flower be 
large, round, and of a good white or 
yellow, and that the tube or neck be 
not too wide. 

All the flowers of this kind, that 
want any cf the above-mentioned pro- 
perties, are now rejected by every 
good florid ; for as the varieties every 
year increafe from feeds, fo the bad 
ones are turned out to make room for 
their betters ; but in fome people the 
paffion for new flowers fo much pre- 
vails, that, fuppofing the old flower 
greatly preferable to a new one, if it is 
of their own raifing, the latter muft 
take place of the old one. 

In order to obtain good flowers from 
feeds, you mult make choice of the beft 
flowers you have, which fhould be ex- 
pofed to the open air, that they may 
have the benefit of fhowers, without 
which they feldom produce good feeds: 
the time of their ripening is, in June or 
July, which you will eafily know, by 
their feed-veffel turning to a brown co- 
lour, and opening ; you muft there- 
fore be careful left the feeds befcat- 
tered out of the veffel,»for it will not 
be all fit to gather at the fame time. 

The tfme for fowing this feed is 
commonly in Auguit, but if it be fown 
beforeChriftmasitwjllbetimeenough. 

The beft foil for this feed is good, 
frefh, light, fandy mould, mixed with 
very rotten neats dung, or very rotten 
dung from the bottom of an old hot- 
bed : with this you fhould fill your 
pots or boxes, in which you intend to 
fow your feeds ; and having levelled 
the furface of the earth very fmooth, 
fow your feeds thereon, covering it 
very lightly with rotten willow mould 
taken out of the ftems of decayed hol- 
low willow-trees : then cover the box, 
Sec. with a net or wire, to prevent the 
cats, fowls, &c. from fcratching out, 
or burying your feeds too deep ; for 
whenever this happens, the feeds will 
remain a year in the ground before the 
plants appear, if it fhould grow at laft; 
therefore many perfons never cover 
thefe feeds, but fow them upon the 
furface of the earth, in the boxes un- 
covered with earth, for the rain to 
wafh them into the ground, which is 
often the beft method : let thefe boxes, 
&c. be placed fo as to receive only the 
morningfun, during the winter feafon; 
but in the beginning of March remove 
them where, they may fcarce have any 

fun, 



A U R 



A U R 



fun, for your young plants will now 
foon begin to appear, which, if expofyd 
to one whole day's fun only, will be all 
deftroyed. . 

During the fummer feafon, in dry 
weather, often refrefh them with wa- 
ter, but never give them too great 
quantities at once. In the July fol- 
lowing, your plants will be large e- 
nough to tranfplant, at which time 
you muft prepare a bed or boxes, filled 
with the above-mentioned foil, in 
which you mayplant them about three 
inches fquare, and (if in beds) you muft 
fhade them every day, till they are 
thoroughly rooted, as alfo in very hot 
dry weather; but if they are in baf- 
kets, or boxes, they may be removed 
to a fhady place. 

When the feedling auriculas are plan- 
ted in beds, there fhould be fome rotten 
neats dung laid about ten inches under 
the furface, and beaten down clofe and 
fmooth : this will prevent the worms 
from drawing the young plants out of 
the earth, which they generally do 
where this is not pracYifed. This dung 
fhould belaid about a foot thick, which 
will entirely prevent the worms get- 
ting through it until the plants are 
well eftablifhed in the beds ; and the 
roots of the auriculas will ftrike down 
into the dung by the fpring, which 
will make their flowers ftronger than 
ufual: thefe beds fhould be expofed to 
theeaft,&fcreened from the fouthfun. 

When you have taken all your plants 
which are come up out of the boxes 
or pots, level the earth gently again ; 
for it often happens, that fome of the 
feeds will lie in the ground two years 
before they appear, efpecially if they 
were covered too deep when fown, 
as was before obferved. 

The fpring following many of the 
firft plants will fhew their flowers, 
when you may feledt fuch of them as 
have good properties, to be removed 
into pots of the fame prepared earth, 
and preferved until the next feafon, 
at which time you will be capable to 
form a judgment of the goodnefs of 
the flower ; but thofe that produce 
plain coloured or fmall flowers fhould 
be taken out, and planted in borders 
in the out-parts of the garden, to make 
a fhew, or gather for nofe gays, &c. 
the others, which do not produce their 
flowers the fame year, may be taken 
up, and yanfplanted into a frefli bed 



to remain till you fee how they wiij 
prove. 

The manner of propagating thefe 
flowers when obtained, is from offsets 
or flips, taken from the old roots in 
April, when the flowers are in bloom: 
thefe offsets mult be planted into fmali 
pots filled with the fame fort of earth, 
as was before directed for the feed- 
lings ; and, during the fummer feafon, 
fhould be fet in a fhady place, and 
mult be often (but very gently) re- 
frefhed with water, but in the autumn 
and winter fhould be fheltered from 
violent rains. The fpring following 
thefe young plants will produce flow- 
ers, though but weak ; foon after they 
are part flowering, you muft put them 
into larger pots, and the fecond year 
they will blow in perfection. 

But, in order to obtain a fine bloom 
of thefe flowers, you muft obferve the 
following directions : 

Firft, Preferve your plants from too 
much wet in winter, which often rots 
and fpoils them, but let them have as 
much free open air as poffible ; nor 
fhould they be too much expofed to 
the fun, which is apt to forward the 
budding for flower too foon : and the 
frofty mornings, which often happen 
in March, thereby deftroy their buds, 
if they are not protected therefrom. 
To prevent which, thofe who are very 
curious in thefe flowers, place theirpots 
in the autumn underacommon hot-bed 
frame, where in good weather, the 
plants may enjoy the full air, by draw- 
ing off the glafTes ; and in great rain, 
fhow, or froft, the plants may be 
fcreened by covering them. When 
this method is praftifed with judg- 
ment, the flowers will be much ftron* 
ger, and the plants will increafe fafter 
than when they are expofed abroad. 

Secondly, In the beginning of Fe- 
bruary, if the weather is mild v you 
muft take off the upper part of the 
earth in the auricula pots, as low as 
you can without disturbing their roots, 
and fill up the pots with frefli rich 
earth, which will greatly ftrengthen 
them for bloom ; as alfo prepare your 
offsets for tranfplanting in April, by 
cauiing them to pufh out new roots. 

Thofe plants which have ftrongfin- 
gle heads, always produce the largeft 
cluAer of flowers j therefore curious 
fiorifis pull off the offsets as foon as 
it can be done with fafety to their 
K. a growing, 



A U R 



A Z A 



growing, to encourage the mother 
plants to flower the ftronger ; they 
alfo pinch off the flowers in the au- 
tumn, where they are produced, and 
fuffer them not to open, that the plants 
fhould not be weakened thereby. 

Thirdly, You muft cover your pots 
with mats in frofty weather, during 
this time of their budding for flower, 
left: the fliarp mornings blight them 
and prevent their blowing. 

Fourthly, When your flower-ftems 
begin to advance, and the bloffom- 
buds grow turgid, yovi muft protect 
them from hafty rains, which would 
wafh off their white mealy farina, and 
greatly deface the beauty of their flow- 
ers ; but at the fame time obferve to 
keep them as much uncovered as pof- 
fible, otherwife their ftems will be 
drawn up too weak to fupport their 
flowers (which is often the cafe when 
the pots are placed under walls), and 
tgive them gentle waterings, to ftreng- 
.hen them; but let none of the water 
all into the center of the plant, or 
mong the leaves. 

Fifthly, When your flowers begin to 
open, you fhould remove their pots 
upon a ftage (built with rows of fhelves, 
one above another, and covered on the 
top, to preferve them from wet ; this 
mould be open to the morning fun, 
but fheltered from the heat of the fun 
in the middle of the day :) in thispofi- 
tion they will appear to much greater 
advantage, than when the pots ftand 
upon the ground, for their flowers be- 
ing low, their beauty is hid from us ; 
whereas, when they are advanced upon 
/helves, we fee them in full view : In 
this fituation they may remain until 
the beauty of the flowers is paft, when 
they muft be fet abroad to receive the 
rains, and have open free air, in order 
to obtain feeds, which will fail if they 
are kept too long under fhelter. When 
your feed is ripe, obferve to gather it 
when it is perfectly dry, and expofe it 
to the fun in a window upon papers, 
to prevent its growing mouldy, and let 
it remain in the pods till the feafonfor 
fowing it. 

Borage-leaved Auricula, [Verbaf- 
cum.] This grows naturally upon the 
Alps and Pyrenean mountains ; it is a 
very humble plant, whofe leaves trail 
on the ground, but bears large blue 
flowers. 

The root is perennial, and the plant 



is ufually propagated by offsets from 
the old plant, which fhould be taken 
off in autumn, and planted in fmall 
pots filled with light fandy earth ; they 
muft always have a fhady fituation ; 
for they will not thrive when they are 
expofed to the fun. 

AURIGA, a carter, waggoner, or 
charioteer. 

AUTUMN, the third feafon or quar- * 
ter of the year, when the harveft and 
fruits are gathered in. 

Autumn is reprefented in painting 
by a man at perfect age, cloathed like 
the vernal, and likewife girded with a 
ftarry girdle ; holding in one hand a 
pair of fcales equally poized, with a 
globe in each ; in the other, a bunch of 
divers fruits and grapes. His age de- 
notes the perfeftion of this feafon, and 
the balance, that fign of the Zodiac 
which the fun enters when our au- 
tumn begins. 

Some computed the years by autumns j 
but the Englifh Saxons by winters. 
Tacitus fays that the ancient Germans 
knew the other divifions of the year, 
but did not know what was meant by. 
autumn, /v # ., ,? ■ ,' a .q f- t <? — 

AUTUMNALIA, thofe fruits of the''' 
earth which are ripe in autumn. ^. 

AWM. See Aile. 

AWNCEL. SeeAuNCEL. 

AX, Axis, or Axle-tree, a piece of ^ 
wood (or iron) under a waggon, cart, JJ^ 
&c. on which the wheels turn. 

AXEN, a common vulgar phrafe for ^ 
afhes. T^ 

AX-VETCH, ox Hatchet-Vetch, [Se- ^\ 
curidaca.] This plant grows naturally 
in the corn fields in Spain and Italy ; 
it is annual, with trailing ftalks, and ' 
bears a large clufter of yellow flowers 
of the butterfly kind. 

It is propagated by fowing the feeds 
in borders of light earth in the fpring, 
in the places where the plants are to 
abide, for they feldom fucceed well if 
they are tranfplanted ; they fhould be 
allowed at leaft two feet diftance, be- 
caufe their branches trail upon the 
ground. When the plants come up, 
they will require no other care but to 
thin them where they are too clofe, 
and keep them clean from weeds. A 
few of thefe plants may be admitted in- 
to every good garden for variety, tho* 
there is no great beauty in their flowers. 

AZ ALDUS, a fort of poor horfe 01 
jade. 

AZE- 



B A C 



IS A C 



AZEDARACH. See Bead-tree. 

AZEROLE, a fpecies of the medlar. 
See Medlar. 

AZYMOUS, fomething unfermen- 
ted, as bread, Sec. made without lea- 
ven. Galen obferves, that all unfer- 
mented bread is unwholfome. 

M"<-<-<"<-<-^-«>- >■•>■>••>•>-►• >■• 

B. 

BACCIFEROUS, an epithet added 
to the name of any tree, fhrub, 
or plant, that bears berries, as faifa- 
fras, jafmine, privet, bryony, honey- 
fuckle, lily of the valley, afparagus, 
butcher's-broom, night-fhade, goofe- 
berry, currant, &c. &c. 

BACHELOR's-BUTTONS, [Lych- 
nis.] This plant grows naturally by the 
fide of ditches, and in moift paftures 
in many parts of England, fo is feldom 
admitted into gardens. It has a pe- 
rennial root, and bears clufters of pur- 
ple flowers in April or May ; the ftalks 
decay in autumn, but the roots conti- 
nue feveral years. 

There is a variety of this with double 
flowers, which is cultivated in gar- 
dens by the title of red bacheUrs buttons. 
This is an ornamental plant, and con- 
tinues long in flower. It is propaga- 
ted by flips, which fhould be planted 
the beginning of Auguft in a fliady 
border of loamy earth, where they will 
take root in about fix weeks or two 
months, and may then be tranfplan- 
ted into the borders of the flower gar- 
den. Thefe roots fhould be annually 
tranfplanted, otherwife they frequently 
rot ; and young plants mull be pro- 
pagated by flips, to fupply the decay 
of the old roots, which are not of very 
long duration. This thrives beft in a 
foft loamy foil, and in a fliady fitua- 
tion, where they have only the morn- 
ing fun. 

BACHELORS-PEAR, [Solatium,'] 
is very common in the Weft-India If- 
lands : it has a prickly herbaceous ftalk 
three or four feet high. The flowers 
come out from the fide of the branches 
in fmall bunches ; they are large, of a 
pale blue colour, and arefuccecded by 
fruit about the fize and fhape of a, Ca- 
therine pear ; but the ftalk being fix- 
ed to the large end, the fruit (which is 
of a gold colour when ripe) becomes 
inverted. 



This is propapated by feeds, which 
fhould be fovvn upon a hot-bed . the 
fpring, and when the plants come up 
fit to remove, they muft be planted 
upon a frefh hot-bed, to bri 5 thdih 
forward, and afterwards treated . the 
way as the tender forts of caphcums. 

BACK, of a horfe. To be a good one 
it fhould fink a little below the wi- 
thers ; but the other part fiVi.ld never 
be too low, but always flraight, un- 
lefs as juft mentioned. In this cafe, 
the fcrenand will rife very well. 

When the back of a hoife is h let 
behind than before, he is apt Cc be 
pinched in his fhoulders, is vtrv i- 
figluly, and generally weak. Befi :*, 
it renders the back-part.', fo heavy, that 
they generally have an aukward gait, 
and move flowly. A horfe fhould be 
home-ribbed; but the fhort ribs fhould 
not approach too near the haunches, 
for then lie will not have room to fetch 
his breath. Thofe that are open rib- 
bed, are of a lax texture, are loofe in 
the flanks like a greyhound, and con- 
fequently weak. Betides, they are nar- 
row over the chine, have little or no 
belly, are not fit for a long journey, 
and will carry no great weight. 

When a horfe' s back is very fhort ia 
proportion to his bulk, and yet other- 
wife well limbed, he will hold out well 
enough upon a journey; but he is 
flow, and never makes a good appear- 
ance. When he is tall at the fame 
time, with very long legs, he is worth 
little. His flanks fhould not be hol- 
low, but fmooth and full ; likewife his 
hind parts, or uppermoft haunches, 
fhould not be higher than his flioul- 
ders ; and when his back is a little 
arched behind the faddle, it is a fign 
of ftrength, and a fitnefs for hunting 
as well as travelling. 

To Back a Horfe, is to mount, or 
get upon him ; in the manage it fig- 
nifies to mount him bare-backed, or 
without a faddle. 

Backing a Colt, is fometimes ufed 
for breaking him. 

BACK-SINEW, in a horfe, is that 
ftrong finew extending along the hin- 
der part of the (hank from the knee to 
the heel, into which it is inferted. 

The back finew is fo very fubjedl to 
be hurt or ftrained, that i: is considered 
as one of the moft common and ufual 
accidents tiiat happens to a horfe ; it 
generally proceeds from hard riding 
upon 



B A C 



B A C 



opon dry grounds, and from other 
caufes, where the roads are ftoney and 
hard, and fometimes where they are 
poachy. 

It is eaiily perceived by the fwelling 
of the finew, which fometimes extends 
from the knee down to the heel ; and 
when it is fo, a horfe does not care to 
f et his foot even upon the ground ; 
but, for the moft part, in his (landing, 
fets it before the other. 

The ufual way of curing this ma- 
lady, is with cold charges, which often 
fucceed very well, if often renewed ; 
fome ufe curriers fhavings bound round 
the knee with a bandage, and this alfo 
anfwers very well in fome cafes ; but 
there is nothing either fo ready or effica- 
cious as vinegar or verjuice mixed with 
bole, being often in a day foaked well 
into the finew warm ; and if any thing 
of the lamenefsor fwelling remains af- 
ter this, and after the heat and inflam- 
mation is gone off, a mild blilier, that 
has nothing corrofive in itbefides the 
cauftic falt'of the flies, will, generally 
fpeaking, effs&uate a cure, and bring 
the finew fine. 

When hot and relaxing oils mixed 
together are ufed to the back-finew, 
(which many practitioners are fond of, 
becaufe they fometimes fucceed in 
horfes that have their finews llrong 
and rigid,) they are apt to ingender 
wind-galls of a bad kind, or make the 
veins on each fide the finew to be full 
and gored ; and horfes have been 
known to be lame for two or three 
years together with thefe varixes in 
the veins. Bliftering in this cafe has 
little or no effect, firing through the 
vein till the blood comes being only 
fufficient to remove that weaknefs. Af- 
ter the firing, the whole leg from the 
knee down to the heel, and all the 
hollow places on both fides, mull be 
charged with a good ftrengthening 
plaifter, which will perfect the cure, 
efpecially if the horfe be turned to 
grafs for a month or five weeks, or, 
in the winter, if he run a little while 
in a fmooth yard, where he has good 
dry litter. 

The following method of curing a 
ftrain, commonly called a clap of the 
back finews, was communicated by an 
eminent furgeon : it cured Mr. Daw- 
kins's horfe after he broke down on the 
courfe at Reading, and many others 
have fince been recovered in the fame 



iff, Bleed immediately in the fet- 
lock vein. 2. Bathe the affected leg 
with the warm blood, mixed with fait 
for half an hour. 3. Foment the leg 
twice a day with flannels, fqueezed 
out of the following whey, made hot: ' 

' Take a quart of milk, and when it 
boils add half a pint of the oldeft and 
ftrongelt verjuice, in which an ounce; 
of roch-allum hath been diffolved : let 
this mixture boil, and you will have a 
ftrong curd immediately. Strain off 
the whey and preferve the curd.* 

This curd muft be applied warm 
once a day as a poultice after the leg 
hath been fomented with the whey as 
directed. It muft be bound on with 
a fmooth roller. In about fix or eight 
days the inflammation will be affua- 
ged, and then the following ftyptic 
charge muft be laid on : 

' Take of the colcother of vitriol, 
reduced into an impalpable powder, 
half a pound, and mix it by little 
and little with the whites of two eggs 
beaten to a glair, adding as much 
ftrong verjuice as will bring it to the 
confidence of a cold charge. Then 
fpread it on a linen cloth, and roll it 
on with a bandage four yards long and 
three inches broad, taking care that 
every turn be very fmooth. This charge 
frefh-made muft be renewed every 24. 
hours.' 

Bleeding is defigned to abate the in- 
flammation, which always attends this 
accident when violent 5 to which like- 
wife Che whey will greatly contribute. 
The blood and fait will ftimulate and 
cherifh the finews, and cenfequently 
prevent any farther flux of humours. 
The curd is a ftyptic, and will help to 
reftore the elafticity or fpringinefs of 
the finews, and the cold charge will 
greatly fiiengthen the limb. Whereas, 
all oily greafy applications relax and 
weaken it, and therefore ought to be 
fhunned. This method is likewife 
much better than a cure by bliftering 
and firing, for this laft method efpeci- 
ally, is attended with danger, and may 
do much more harm than good. Be- 
fides, experience has fhewn the fafety 
and benefit of this practice. 

Back of a Horfe galled. It fome- 
times happens that a horfe's back is 
raw, or that the fwelling and inflam- 
mation has fmall holes, or wounds 
therein called warbles j in this cafe 
bathe 



BAG 



B A L 



bathe the part with equal quantities of 
fpirits of wine and tincture of myrrh 
and aloes^with a little fpirit of tur- 
pentine: if the fkin is rubbed off with- 
out bruifing the part, nothing is bet- 
ter than Friar's balfam. 

BACO, a term often ufed in old 
charters for a fat or bacon hog. 

BACON, the flefh of a hog falted 
and dried. 

When you kill a large hog for ba- 
con, lay the fides in thefalting-troughs, 
and fprinkle them pretty heavily with 
bay-falt : then leave them twenty-four 
hours to drain away the blood, and 
fome of the over abounding juices. 

After this take them out, wipe them 
very dry, and throw away the drain- 
ings.^Then take feme f rem fait, and 
heating it well in a large iron frying- 
pan, rub the meat very well with it ; 
repeating this work every day for four 
days, and turning the fides every other 
day. 

If the hog be large, keep the fides 
in brine (turning them ten times) for 
three weeks ; after which take them 
out, and let them be thoroughly well 
dried in the ufual manner : if they are 
not full dried, they will neither keep fo 
well, nor eat fo fine. If the hog be 
killed in warm weather, put the fides 
into good brine as foon as poflible af- 
ter he is killed. 

BACULUS DIVINITORIU?, [Vir- 
gula D'rvinn,~\ a branch of hazle ufed 
for difcovering mines or fprings, Sec. 
It is faid, that the flick being carried 
loofelyin the hand, will on pamng over 
mines, fprings, &c. incline towards the 
earth. Some people lay great Arefs 
upon this, while others treat it with 
the contempt it deferves. 

BADGER, a carrier of luggage. 

Badger, one that is licenced to 
buy corn or other provifions in one 
place to fell it again in any other, with- 
out incurring the penalty initiated on 
jngroffers; a hacklier. 

Badger, the name of an animal, 
common in many parts of England; and 
called by feveral names, as a gray, a 
brock, a borefon, or a baufon. 

BADIAGA, a water plant, refem- 
bling the alcyoniams, but full offmall 
round granules like feeds. Linnaeus 
makes it a fpecies of fponge. 

BAG, a fack or pouch. In com- 
merce it fignifies a certain quantity of 
fome particular commodity ; as a bag 



of corn, flour, &c. which differs >a 
weight according to the different cuf- 
torr.i of countries. 

Bag, among farriers, is a name gi- 
ven to a medicine for recovering a 
horfe's appetite when loft. It is done - 
in this manner ; they take an ounce 
of afTa-fcetida, and an equal quntity of 
the powder of favin ; thefe ingredients 
they put into a bag, which they fafien 
to the horfe's bit, keeping him bridled 
for two hours, two or three times a 
day : as foon as the bag is taken off 9 
he will immediately eat. The fame 
bag will ferve a long time. 

Bag, a cow's udder. . ; c> •*-*- 

BAGGING of hops, putting them 
in bajrs. See Hops. 

BAILIFF, an under-fteward, who 
directs hufbandry, gathers rent, &c. 

BAIT, in fifhing, a thing or fub- 
ftance prepared to take and bring fifhes 
to. See what is faid under the article 
Angling. 

BAKING ofhrJ, If fome forts of 
ftiff and binding land be fown dry, and 
a feud of rain-falls before the earth 
has time to fettle, it is obferved that 
the emit of fuch land will bake fo that 
the corn cannot come through, to the 
great damage of the crop; this evil does 
not happen if fuch a feud of rain be 
followed by cool cloudy weather, and 
not hot fliun-fhine; for then the earth 
will not lie fo hollow as to be baked. 
The bed way to prevent this is, to roll 
it immediately after lowing, which faf- 
tens the earth together, whereby the 
fun has no: that power of piercing into 
it, and consequently not of baking it. 

Land of this kind fhould, therefore, 
be fown as often as poffible with win- 
ter corn, fuch as wheat and vetches; 
for though, if wet follows the fowing, 
the fun is not flrong enough at that 
time of the year to fcorch the ground 
up, and bind it; and it is obferved, 
that this fort of ground has been al- 
ways lucky for vetches, probably for 
the above reafon ; but after it is baked, 
the beit method is to draw a light har- 
row over it. 

B AL AUSTIN E, [Balaujlia,'] the 
flower of the double floweiing pome- 
granate tree, of an elegant red colour. 
The fhops are ufually fupplied with 
the dried flowers from abroad, though 
thofe of our own growth do not ap- 
pear to be any wife inferior to the 
foreign. 

The 



SAL 



B A L 



Tiie flowers are mildly aflringent and 
corroborant; of a moderately rough and 
fomewhat bitterifh tafle, and of littie 
or no iinell or particular flavour. They 
give out their afhisigent matter toge- 
ther with a pale red colour, both to wa- 
ter and rectified fpirit ; the extracts ob- 
tained by infpiffating the tin&ures, in 
which the active part.- of the flower arc 
concentrated. are pretty ftronglyflyptic. 

Balauftines are recommended in di- 
arhoeas, dyfenteries, and other cafes 
.where aflringent medicines are proper, 
but are rarely directed in extempora- 
neous piefcriptions. 

BALD-FACE. When the greater 
part of a horfe's face is covered with 
white, he is faid to be bald, or bald- 
faced. 

BALD-MONEY, or Baivd-Moncy, 
See Spignel. 

BALK, a piece of land which has 

- been either cafually overlapped, or not 

tGrned up in ploughing ; or carefully 

left untouched by the plough, for a 

boundary between lands, or fome o- 

. ther ufe. 

Balk, alfo fignifics the fummer- 
beam, or dorman of a houfe. 

Balks, oxBatvh, implies poles laid 
over a ftable, or other building, for 
a roof. 

BALM. SeeBAUM. 

Moldavian Balm, \Dratocephahtrn\ of 
which there is a great variety in gar- 
dens, with flowers of different colours. 

They are propagated by feeds, fown 
either in the fpring or autumn, in the 
places where the plants are to remain, 
and require no other treatment than 
to be thinned where they are too thick, 
and kept free from weeds. 

B a l m of G i l e a n, \Dracacephalurn\ 
is a native of the Canary iflands. It 
received its name from the gardeners, 
on account of the refinous fcent which 
the leaves emit on being rubbed.' This 
... is a perennial plant, v. hi ch fifes with 
feveral fquare flalks to the height of 
three feet or more, becoming ligneous 
at their lower parts, garnifhed with 
compound leaves at each joint, which 
are placed oppofite; they have three 
or five lobes, which are oblong, poin- 
ted, and fawed on their edges. The 
flowers terminate the flalks in fhort 
thick fpikes ; they are of a pale blue 
colour, and are fucceeded by fmall an- 
gular feeds. This plant-continues pro- 
ducing flowers moll part of fummer; 



it is ufually kept it green-houfes, but, 
in mild winters the plants will live a - 
broad, if they are planted in warm bor- 
ders; and thofe plants which are kept 
in pots will thrive much better when 
they are fheltered under a frame, than 
if placed in a gretn-houfe, where the 
plants are apt to draw up weak, for 
they fhsuld have as much free air as 
poflible in mild weather, and only re- 
quire to be fheltered from fevere froft. 
This may be propagated by feeds, 
which, if fown in autumn, will more 
certainly grow than thofe which arc 
fown in the fpring ; if the feeds are 
fown in the full ground, it fhould be 
in a warm border. It may alfo be 
propagated by cuttings, which, if plan- 
ted in a fhady border any time in the 
fummer, will very foon take root, and 
furnifh plenty of rooted plants. 

Balm of Gilead Fi«. See Fir - 
Tree. 

BALSAM APPLE. See Balaam Ap- 
ple, under the article Apple-Tree. 

BALSAMINE, [Impatient.] Female 
Balfamine. There are three fpecies, 
viz. i. Yellow balfamine, or toueh me 
not; 2. Female balfamine; 3. Upright, 
or Female balfamine of Ceylon. 

The firft fort grows naturally in fe- 
veral parts of Weftmoreland and York- 
shire, but is frequently introduced into 
gardens by way of curiofity. It is an 
annual plant, which rifes about two 
or three feet high, with an upright fuc- 
culent flalk, whofe joints are fwollen, 
garnifhed with oval fmooth leaves, 
which ftand alternate on every fide the 
flalk. The flowers come out from the 
wings of the flalks upon long ilender 
foot-flalks, which branch into feveral 
other fmaller, each fuftaining one yel- 
low flower, compofed of five petals, 
which in front are fhaped like the lip 
or grinning flowers, but at their bafe 
have a long tail like the flowers of In- 
dian crefs ; thefe are fucceeded by ta- 
per pods, which, when ripe, burft open 
upon being touched, anrl twift fpirally 
like a fcrew, cafling out the feeds with 
great elaiticity. If the feeds of this 
plant are permitted to fcatter, they 
generally fucceed better than when 
they are fown : for unlefs they are 
fown in the autumn, foon after they 
are ripe, they very rarely grow. The 
plants require no care but to keep 
them clean from weeds, and thin them 
where they are too clofe. This delights 

in 



B A L 



B A L 



in a (hady (ituation and a molft foil. 
There is a variety of this with red 
flowers, which came from North Ame- 
rica, which only differs in the colour 
cf the flowers, and growing much tal- 
ler, it is equally hardy. 

The fecond fort is the Female Balfa- 
mine, of which there are feveral varie- 
ties ; the common fort has been long 
an inhabitant in the Englifh gardens; 
of this there is the white, the red, and 
ftriped-flowered, and likewifethe An- 
gle and double flowering. The com- 
mon fingle fort is fo hardy as to rife in 
the full ground, and where the feeds 
fcatter, the plants will come up the 
following fpring, but thefe do not come 
»o flovrer fo early as thofe which are 
raifed upon a hot-bed ; however, they 
generally are (tronger plants, and con- 
tinue much longer in the autumn in 
flower than the others, fo are an orna- 
ment to the garden at fuch times when 
there is a greater fcarcity of flowers. 

There are two varieties, if not dis- 
tinct fpecies, with double variegated 
flowers ; one of them grows naturally 
in the Eaft, and the other in the Weft- 
indies ; that which comes from the 
Eaft-Indies by the title of Immortal 
Eagle Flower, is a mod beautiful 
plant ; the flowers are twice the fize 
•of thofe of the common foit, and are 
very double ; they are in Some fcarlet 
and white variegated, and purple and 
white in others, and the plants pro- 
ducing plenty of the flowers render 
them very valuable: if the feeds of 
thefe are carefully faved, the kinds may 
always be preferved. I have raifed 
fome plants from foreign feeds, whofe 
flowers were fo very double as to lofe 
their male parts, fo did not produce 
any feeds. 

The feeds of thefe plants ihould be 
Sown on a moderate hot -bed in the 
fpring, and when the plants are come 
up about an inch high, they ihould be 
tranfplanted on another moderate hot- 
bed at about four inches dillance, ob- 
ferving to fharfe them from the fun 
till they have taken new root ; after 
which they mould have a large (hare 
cf free air, to prevent their drawing 
ttp taM and weak : they will require 
to be often refrefhed with water, but 
it (hould not be given to them in too 
great plenty; far, as their fieins are 
very fucculent, fo they are apt to rot 
with much moi flu re. Whtfi the plants 



are grown fo large as to touch each 
other, they ihould be carefully taken 
up with balls of earth to their roof!, 
and each planted into a feparate pot 
filled with light rich earth, and plunged 
into a very moderate hot-bed, covered 
with a deep frame, to admit the plants 
to grow, (hading them from the fun 
until they have taken frefli root; then 
they (honld have a large (hare of air 
admitted to them, and by degrees har- 
dened, fo as to bear the open air, into 
which part of the plants may be re r 
moved in July, placing them in a warm 
flickered fituation, where, if the feafon 
proves favourable, they will flower 
and make a fine appearance ; but it 
will be proper to keep part of the 
plants either in a glafs-cafe or a deep 
frame, in order to get good feeds, be- 
caufe thofe in the open air will not 
ripen their feeds unlefs the fummer 
proves very warm ; and the plants in 
(helter mull have a good (hare of free 
air every day, otherwife they will grow 
pale and fickly ; nor (hould they have 
too much of the fun in the middle of 
theday ; in very hot weather,for that oc- 
cafions their leaves hanging, and their 
requiring water, which is often very 
hurtful ; therefore if the glades are 
(haded in the middle oi the day for 
three or four hours, the plants will 
flower better, and continue longer in 
beauty than when they are expofed to 
the great heat. Thofe who are curi- 
ous to prefei ve thefe plants in perfec- 
tion, pull off all the lingle and plain- 
coloured flowers from the plants which 
they prefei ve for feeds, leaving only 
thofe flowers which are double and of 
good colours ; where this is carefully 
done, they may be continued without: 
theleaft degeneracy. 

The fort which grows in the Weft- 
Indies, is there called Cockfpur. This 
hath finc,!e or femi-double flowers, 
which are as large as the laft mentioned 
fort, but I never faw any of them mort 
than half double, and only with white 
and red (tripes : the plants are apt to 
grow to a very large fize before they 
produce any flowers, fo that it is Lite 
in the autumn before they begin to 
flower, and forrietimes in bad feafons 
they will fcarce have any flowers, and 
but rarely ripen their feeds here, fo 
that few perfons care to cultivate tlfis 
fort, efpecially if they can have the 
other. 

t Tttt 



B A L 



B A L 



The third fort here mentioned grows 
naturally in Ceylon, and in many parts 
of India. This hath very narrow fpear- 
fhaped leaves, which are favvedon their 
edges ; the foot-ft a'ks fuftain each three 
flowers, which are fmaller than thofe 
of the common fort, fo are not worthy 
of a place in gardens, except for the 
fake of variety^ This is a tender plant, 
and requires the fame treatment as the 
Immortal Eagle Flower. 

BALSAM, in medicine.is an oilyre- 
finous, and odorous fubitar.ce, flowing 
either fpontaneoufly, or by incifion, 
from certain plants, of great virtue in 
the cure of feveral diforders. There 
are many kinds of balfams, but the fol- 
lowing are the moft remarkable. 

Balsam of Canada, is a fine fort of 
turpentine, much fuperior to the com- 
mon ones, obtained from the Virgi- 
nian, or Canada Fir; it hasfometimes 
been brought to us from abroad, un- 
der the name of Balsamum Cana- 

DENSE. 

Balsam of Copaiba, Copaiva, or Ca- 
pivi, is obtained from a tree of the fame 
name growing in the Brazils, near Rio 
de Janeiro: it is alfo called Balsamum 
Braziliense. 

This juice is clear and tranfparent, 
of a whirifh or pale yellow colour, ana- 
greeable fmell, and a bitterifh pungent 
tafte. It is ufually about the confidence 
of oil, or a little thicker : long kept, it 
becomes nearly as thick as honey, re- 
taining its clearnefs ; but has not been 
obferved to grow dry or folid, as molt 
of the other relinous juices do. We 
fometimes meet with a thick fort of 
balfam of copaiba, which is not at all 
tranfparent, or much lefs fo than the 
foregoing, and generally has a portion 
of turbid watery liquor at the bottom. 
This fort is probably either adultera- 
ted by the mixture of other fubftances, 
or has been extracted by codtion from 
the bark and branches of the tree : its 
fmell and tafte are much lefs pleafant 

than thofe of the genuine balfam 

Pure balfam of copaiba diffolves en- 
tirely in rectified fpirit, efpecially if 
the menftruum be previoufly alcalized: 
the folution has a very fragrant fmell. 
Diftilled with water, it yields a large 
quantity of a limpid effential oil ; and 
in a Itrong heat, without addition, a 
blue oil. 

The balfam of copaiba, is an ufeful 
corroborating detergent medicine, ac- 



companied with a degree of irritations- 
It ftrengthens the nervous fyftem ; 
tends to loofen the belly, and in large 
dofes proves purgative, promotes urine, 
and fometimes the expullion of gravel ; ■ 
cleanfes and heals ulcerations in the 
urinary paffages, which it is fuppofed 
to perform more effectually than any 
of the other balfams. Fuller obferves, 
that it gives the urine an intenfely 
bitter tafte, but not a violet fmell as 
the turpentines do. — This balfam has 
been principally celebrated in gleets 
and the fluor albus, and externally as 
a vulnerary. The author abovemen- 
tioned recommends it likewife in dy- 
fenteries, in fcorbutic cachexies, in dif- 
eafes of the breaft and lungs, and in an 
acrimonious or putrefcent ftate of the 
juices : he fays he has known very 
dangerous coughs, which manifeftly 
thieattned a confumption, cured by 
theufe of this balfam alone ; and that 
notwithltanding its being hot and bit- 
ter, it has good effects even fn hectic 

cafes. The dofe of this medicino 

rarely exceeds twenty or thirty drops, 
though fome direct fixty or more. It 
may be conveniently exhibited in the 
form of an ela:ofaccharum ; or tritu- 
rated with almonds into an emulfion; 
or agitated with milk, which it thus 
readily unites with: it imperfectly 
mingles, by agitation, with water alfo. 

Balsams/' Gilead, ox of Mecca, com- 
monly called Ealam of Gilead, and 
fometimes Opo balfam, is the mofl pre- 
cious of all balfams; it is alfo Ailed 
Balsamum Gileadense; Balsa- 
mum Judaicum ; and Balsamum 
S y r i a c u m . 

It exfudes in very fmall quantities 
from certain evergreen trees, which 
grew formerly in the valley of Jericho, 
but after the conqueft of the Holy 
Land by the Turks, were removed to 
Grand Cairo, and afterwards to Mecca, 
where the balfam plantation is faid to 
be now guarded by Janizaries, and 
the refinous juice collected for the 
Sultan only. It is fcarcely known in 
Europe ; and the inferior kinds, faid 
to be extracted by lightly boiling the 
leaves and branches in water, are 
very rarely (cen among us. The true 
opo-balfam, according to Alpinus, is 
at fiift turbid and white, of a very 
itrong pungent fmell, like that of tur- 
pentine, but much fweeter, and of a 
bitter, acrid, aflrmgent tafte : upon 
being 



B A L 



BAM 



being kept for fome time, it ' ecomes 
thin, limpid, light, of a greenifh hue ; 
then of a gold yellow ; and at length 
of the colour of honey : after this, it 
grows thick like turpentine, and lofes 
much of its fragrance. This balfam 
is of great efteem in the eaftern coun- 
tries, both as a medicine, and as an 
odoriferous unguent, and cofmetic. Its 
great fcarcity has prevented its coming 
into ufe among us : in the mithridate 
and theriaca, which it isdiredred as an 
ingredient in, the college allow the ex- 
preffed oil of nutmegs as a fucceda- 
neum to it. 

Balsam of Peru, is faid to be ex- 
tracted by coclion in water, from an 
odoriferous fhrub growing in Peru, and 
the warmer parts of America. This 
balfam, as brought to us, is nearly of 
the confiftence of thin honey, of a red- 
difh brown colour inclining to black, 
an agreeable aromatic fmell, and a very 
hot biting tafte. Diftilled with wa- 
ter, it yields a frnall quantity of a fra- 
grant effential oil of a reddifh colour ; 
and in a ftrong fire, without addition, 
a yellowifh red one.— Balfam of Peru 
is a very warm aromatic medicine, 
considerably hotter, and more acrid 
than copaiba. Its principal effects are, 
to warm the habit, to ftrengthtn the 
nervous fyflem, promote the circula- 
tion, and attenuate vifcid humours. 
Hence its ufe in fome kinds of alth- 
mas, gonorrhoeas, dyfenteries, fup- 
preffions of the uterine difcharges, ob- 
structions of the vifcera, and other dif- 
orders proceeding from a debility of 
the fblids, or a fluggifhnefs and inac- 
tivity of the juices. It is alfo em- 
ployed externally, for cleanfing and 
healing wounds and ulcers ; and fome- 
times againfl palfies and rheumatic 
pains. — This balfam does not unite 
with water, milk, exprcffed oils, ani- 
mal fats, or wax : It may be mingled 
in the cold with this laft, as alfo with 
the febaceous fubftance called expref- 
fed oil of mace ; but if the mixture be 
afterwards liquefied by heat, the bal- 
fam feparates and falls to the bottom. 
Alcaline lixivia diffolve great part of 
it; and reclined fpirit the whole. 

There is another fort of balfam of 
Peru, of a white colour, and conside- 
rably more fragrant than the former. 
This is very rarely brought to us. It 
is faid to be the produce of the fame 
plant which yields the common or 



black balfam ; and to exfude from in- 
cifions made in the trunk. 

Balsam o/ToIu, flows from a tree 
of the pine kind, growing in Tolu in 
the Spanifh Weft-Indies ; from whence 
the balfam is brought to us in little 
gourd fhclls. It is of a yellowifh brown 
colour, inclining to red ; in confif- 
tence thick and tenacious : by age it 
grows hard and brittle, without fuf- 
fcring any great lofs of its more valua- 
ble parts. The fmell of this balfam is 
extremely fragrant, fomew hat like that 
of lemons ; its tafte warm and fweet- 
iih, with little of the pungency, and 
nothing of the naufeous relifh, which 
accompany the other balfams. It has 
the fame general virtues with the fore- 
going ; but for fome purpofes, parti- 
cularly as a corroborant in gleets and 
feminal weaknefles, is fuppofed to be 
more efficacious. 

BALSAM ELLA. Balm of Gilead. . 

BAMBOE, or Bamboo Cake, 
[A'undo Bambua^\ a plant in the Indies 
which multiplies very much by its root, 
from which fprings a branchy tuft af- 
ter the manner of the European reeds. 
It is the largeft kind of cane hitherto 
known. It is of an extraordinary height 
and bignefs when it bears its bloffomj 
each fhoot or cane is often at the bot- 
tom as large as a man's thigh, and 
decreafes gradually to the top, where 
it (ears a bloffom or flower, like out- 
reeds. 

The bamboe grows in all the mari- 
time countries of the Eaft-Indies. Its 
leaves are like thofe of the other canes 
or reeds, but neither fo long nor fo broad 
at their bafe. With thefe bamboes the 
Indians build their houfes, and make all 
forts of furniture in a very ingenious 
manner. The wood is fo hard and ttrong, 
that it ferves very well for piles to fup- 
port their houfes in thofe places which 
arefometimes over-flowed; itlikewife 
ferves for all forts of kitchen utenfils, 
tables, &c. The thickeft bamboes ferve 
to make the poles with which the flaves 
carry thofe litters called Palanquins, 
fo generally ufed in the Eaft. They 
alfo make of this wood a kind of pails, 
in which the water keeps extremely 
cool. 

Our gardeners have now feveral 
fpecies of the bamboe ; fome of them, 
however, are fo tender, that they will 
not live in this country, unlefs they 
are preferved in the ftove. That fort 
L z called 



C./J, 



BAN 



BAN 



called the Evtrgreen Ricd, tho' a native 
of a warm climate, will bear our cold 
of moderate winters in the open ground; 
it dies to the fin-face in autumn, and 
rifes again the fucceeding fpring ; and 
if kept fupplfed with water in dry 
weather, will grow ten or twelve feet 
high the fame fummer. This is pro- 
pagated by parting the roots early in 
the fpring before they begin to (hoot, 
and will in a year or two, if the ground 
be good, make very long fhoots, from 
each of which you may have twenty 
or thirty large canes produced. 

The ftalks of this fort are brought 
from Portugal and Spain, and are ufed 
by the weavers, and likewlfe to maks 
fifhing rods. 

BANANA-TREE, [Mu)j.~] This 
plant rifes fifteen or twenty feet high : 
the lower part of the flalk is often as 
large as a man's thigh, diminifhing 
gradually to the top, where the leaves 
come out on every fide ; thefe are of- 
ten fix feet long, and near two feet 
broad. The leaves are thin and tender, 
and fo are very liable to be torn by 
wind 5 their growth is fo extremely 
rapid that it may be almoft difcerned 
with the naked eye. The fruit, when 
ripe, is eaten by way of defert, and is a 
foft pulp of a lufcious fweet flavour. 

The Banana was brought (as is fup- 
pofed) from Guinea to the Canary If- 
lands, and carried from thence to the 
Weft-Indies. In Europe there are fome 
of thefe plants preferved in the gardens 
of curious perfons, who havehot-houfes 
capacious enough for their reception, 
in many of which they have ripened 
their fruit very well ; but as they grow 
Very tall, and their leaves are large, 
they require more room in the flove 
than moft people care to allow 
them ; they are propagated by fuckers, 
which come from the roots of thofe 
plants which have fruited ; and many 
times the younger plants, when they 
are ftinted in growth, will put out 
fuckers ; thefe fhould be carefully ta- 
ken off, preferving fome fibres to their 
roots, and planted in pots filled with 
light rich earth, and plunged into the 
tan-bed in the ftove ; they may be ta- 
ken off any time in fummer, and it is 
beit to take them off when young, be- 
eaufe if their roots are grown large, 
they do not put out new fibres fo 
foon, and when the thick part of the 



root is cut in taking them otf the plants; 
often rot. 

During thefummerfeafon thefe plants 
mult be plentifully watered, for the 
furface of their leaves being large, 
there is a great confumption of moif- 
ture by perfpiration in hot weather, 
but in the winter they mult be wa- 
tered more fparingly, though at that 
feafon they muft be often refreshed, 
hut it muft not be given then in fuch 
quantities. 

The pots in which thefe plants are 
placed, fhould be large in proportion 
to the fize of the plants, for their root's 
generally extend pretty far, and the 
earth fhould be rich and light. The 
degree of heat with which thefe 
plants thrive beft, is much the fame 
with the Anana or Tine- Apple, in 
which I have had many of thefe plants 
produce their fruit in perfection, and 
they were near twenty feet high. 

The molt fure method to have thefe 
plants fruit in England is, after they 
have grown for fome time in pots, fo 
as to have made good roots, to fhake 
them out of the pots with the ball of 
earth to their roots, and plant them 
into the tan-bed in the ftove, obferving 
to lay a little old tan near their roots 
for their fibres to ftrike into, and in a 
few months the roots of thefe plants 
will extend themfelves many feet each 
way in the bark, and thefe plants will 
thrive a great deal fafler than thofe 
which are confined in pots or tubs. 
When the bark-bed wants' to be re- 
newed with frefh tan, there fhould be 
great care taken of the roots of thefe 
plants, not to cut or break them, as 
alfo to leave a large quantity of the 
old tan about them, becaufe if the new 
tan is laid too near them, it will fcorch 
their roots and injure them. If the 
plants pufh out their fiower-ftems in 
the fpring, there will be hopes of their 
perfecting their fruit; but when they 
come out late in the year, the plantj 
will fometimes decay before the fruit 
is ripe. The ftoves in which thefe 
plants are placed, fhould be at leaft 
twenty feet in height, otherwife there 
will not be room for their leaves to ex- 
pand ; for when the plants are in vi- 
gour, the leaves are often eight feet in 
length, and near three feet broad ; fo 
that if the ftems grow to be fourteen 
feet to the divifion of the leaves, and 

the 



BAN 



BAN 



(the houfe is not twenty feet high, the 
leaves will be cramped, which will 
retard the growth of the plant ; be- 
sides, when the leaves are bent againft 
the glafs, there will be danger of their 
breaking them ,when they are growing 
vigorously; for I have had, in one 
night, the items of fuch bent leaves 
force through the glafs, and by the 
next morning, advanced two or three 
inches above the glafs. 

The Banana is greatly efteemed and 
even venerated by the natives of Ma- 
deira, who term it the forbidden fruit, 
and reckon it a crime almoft inexpia- 
ble to cut it with a knife ; becaufe af- 
ter diffeclion, it exhibits, as they pre- 
tend, a fnnilitudeof our Saviour's cru- 
cifixion ; and to cut the fruit open 
with a knife, is, in their apprehenfion, 
to wound his facred image. 

Some authors have imagined, that 
the banana-tree was that of the leaves 
of which our firft parents made them- 
felves aprons in Paradife. The facred 
text, indeed, calls the leaves employed 
for that purpofe, fig-leaves ; and Mil- 
ton, in a moft beautiful, but errone- 
ous defcription, affirms the bearded, or 
Bengal fig, to have been the tree al- 
luded to. But befides that the fruit 
of the banana is often, by the moft 
ancient authors, called a fig, its leaves, 
by reafon of their great fize and foli- 
dity, were much more proper for a 
veil, or covering, thanthofe of the 
Bengal fig, which are feldom above fix 
or eight inches long, and three broad. 
On the other hand, the banana leaves 
being three, four and five feet long, 
and proportionally broad, could not 
fail to be pitched upon, in preference 
to all others ; efpecially as they might 
be eafily joined, or fewed together 
with the numerous thread-like fila- 
ments, that may, with the utmoft fa- 
cility, be peeled from the body of this 
tree. 

BANDS, a fmall parcel of wheat 
taken from the grips,and twifted toge- 
ther for binding the wheat into fheaves. 

B a k d s of a Saddle, are two pieces of 
iron, fiat, and three fingers broad, 
nailed upon the bows of a faddle, one 
on each fide, contrived to hold the 
bows in the fitu3tiori that makes the 
form of a faddle. 

BANE, in fheep, the fame with rot, 
S«e the article Rot. 



BANE-BERRIES. See Hers 
Christopher. 

BANEWORT. See Nightshade. 

BANGLE-EARS, an imperfection 
in a horfe, which may be remedied in , ■* p 
the following manner: place his ears i+ffi/o}*' 
as you would have them ftand, and 
then with two little boards, or pieces 
of trenchers, three fingers broad, hav- 
ing two long firings fattened to them, 
bind the ears fo fait in the places where 
they ftand, that they cannot ftir; then 
behind the head, and the root of the 
ears, you will fee a great deal of empty, 
wrinkled fkin, which you muft pull 
up with your finger and thumb, and 
clip away with a pair of fharp fciffars 
all the empty fkin clofe by the head ; 
then with a needle and red (ilk, ftitch 
the two outrides of the fkin together, 
and heal the wound with a mixture of 
honey and turpentine; when this is 
done, take away the fplints that hold 
up the ears, and in a little time they 
will keep the place where you fixed 
them without alteration. 

BANILLOES. See Vanelloes. 

BANK. See the article Fence. 

Bank, an elevation of earth, &c. 
to oppofe the force of the fea, rivers, 
or the like, and fecure the land from 
being overflowed. 

With refpecl to the water which is 
to be kept out, this is called banking; 
but with refpecl to the land which is to 
be defended, it is called imbanking. 

Sloping banks are the beft fecurity 
atcainft the incroachments of the fea, 
rivers, or of lakes ; making proper al- 
lowance for the weight of water, and 
violence of the waves. Thefe banks 
fhould he raifed about two feet above 
the level of the water at the higheft 
tides, and their ftrength fhould be 
proportioned to the force of the water 
intended to be fenced off. When a ri- 
ver is too much confined, it fwells 
confiderably upon a flood, and confe- 
quently requires banks of greater 
height and ftrength than would other- 
wife be neceffary ; though it will fome- 
times break even thefe, and carry all 
before it, if a fufficient fpace be not 
allowed between the bank and the 
channel of the river, for the increafe 
of its water : but when fuch a fpace 
is left, the waters fpread, and feldom 
rife more than a or 3 feet above their 
ufiial level. In fome cafes, a breadth of 
fifteen 



BAN 



B A N 



fifteen or eighteen feet, on each fide, 
may do ; hut in others, fifty, eighty, 
or an hundred feet, or perhaps fo many 
yards, according to thelargenefs of the 
river, mull be left open for that pur- 
pof=. it is bell to err on the fafe fide ; 
efpecialiy as the ground that is left 
between the banks and the river, will 
be far from being loll ; for it will af- 
ford jood grazing in the dry feafons of 
the year, and may be planted with 
ofiers, and willows, and other trees of 
that kind ; but thefe fhould never be 
planted upon the banks, lell the winds 
fpoil and tear them, by fhaking the 
tuej, and loofming their roots. 

In Che Ifle of Ely, it is common to 
fee great banks diltant one or two hun- 
dred yards on each fide from the chan- 
nel of the river; and when they are fo 
made, they are always fafe ; but where 
the diftance between the banks is nar- 
row, there, and there only, the banks 
are in danger of being broken down, 
and the country of being overflowed. 

If a confiderable body of water is to 
be guarded aganft, dig a trench ten or 
twelve feet wide, and two or three 
deep, or more, according to the height 
of the hank required. Lay all the foil 
that i-> taken out of this trench, on 
that fide of it which lies towards the 
water, and leave a fpace of two or 
three feet between the trench, and the 
loot of the bank. ':. et the bank be 
made with an eafy flope of fifteen cr 
eighteen feet in length towards the 
writer, allowing the flope two and a 
half or three feet fall to one in height; 
hut the infide Hope need not be more 
than eight or nine feet, which is a 
foot and a half flope to one foot per- 
pendicular. The bank thus raifed five 
or fix feet high, according as the floods 
require, will be two feet wide at the 
top, wheie it fhould be well flatted, 
that people may walk upon it. Let it 
then be fovved very thick with grafs- 
feeds, which will be found much bet- 
ter than turfing it with fods, hecaufe 
the fods are apt to fhrink, opsn, and 
part from one another in dry weather, 
and are then liable to be wafned away 
with the next flood ; whereas in this 
much cheaper way, a clofe covering of 
grafs will foon be formed; for any to- 
iurable foil may te very foon brought 
to have a coat of grafs, by only raking 
it fine and fowing it with grafs-feeds. 

Some have attempted to guard againfl 



inundations by building walls of lions 
and lime, where the materials are in 
plenty. The great danger here is their 
being undermined, and that chiefly by 
the water's linking with force againfl 
the bottom, upon meeting with refif- 
tance from the wall. But this may be 
ea-fily guarded againfl by laying a row 
of flat flones lower than the bottom 
of the river; and projecting into its 
bed or channel ; for the water (hiking 
againfl thefe flones, turns oft" without 
any danger to the foundation. 

The broad trench within the bank, 
befides affording materials for making 
the bank and dopes, is attended with 
the farther advantage of ferving for a 
drain to the inland ground. Thefe 
trenches fhould always be carried as 
far as the banks, particularly when 
thefe are intended to fence off a rifing 
tide ; and in the loweft part of the 
ground a fluice with a valve, flap-door, 
or flood-gate, fhould be placed in the 
bank, where it will both difcharge the 
inland water, when the tide is out, 
and prevent its flowing in. Thefea- 
fon of theyearfreefl from floods fhould 
be chofen for making thefe banks, that 
the bank may have time to fettle and 
grow firm before the heavy rains come 
on. It is alfo advifabls to be as expe- 
ditious as poffibiein this work. For 
if it be begun in a dry fummer, and 
finilhed in a month or two, there will 
he little danger of being interrupted 
by extraordinary floods or violent 
florms, either of which might do more 
harm in one day, than could be re- 
paired in a fortnight. 

The cxaft dimenliens of the bank, 
and of the ditch within it, cannot be 
precjfely afcertained by any general 
rule ; becaufe both tide* and floods 
rife to different heights, and have dif- 
ferent force, in different places and 
circumftances. The ftrength above- 
mentioned, may be fufficient for banks 
in common cafes ; but in others, where 
a great body of water, or powerful 
tide is to be oppofed, they may be, as 
the memoirs of the Berne Society ad- 
vife, four fisetor more wide at the top, 
with a bafis proportioned to their 
height, as three and a half are to one ; 
or, if it be defired to make them Hill 
more folid, as four to one ; fo that if 
the bank be four feet and a half high, 
its bafis in the former cafe will be 14 
feet wide, and in the latter 18. 

The 



BAN 



BAN 



The Dublin Society for the advance- 
ment of agricultuie, informs us, that 
" Lord Limerick has recovered be- 
tween four and five hundred acres of 
very rich fait marfh, at D'indaik in 
Ireland, and effectually fecured them 
from the fea, by fucli banks as are 
above defcribed; and by the fame me- 
thod, many hundred thcufand acres 
have been recovered from the fea in 
Cambridgefhire, Lincolnfliire, and o- 
ther parts of Engl.-md ; not to mention 
the low lands of Holland ; which are 
indeed fecured againft the violence of 
the fea by no other means. 

" If there be a neceffity for making 
banks on a (trand where nothing but 
fand can be met with, thofe banks 
fhould be large, and the (lope very 
broad and extended ; and if grafs-fetd 
will not grow on them, let fea-wecds 
be planted. Thefe, with (ticking furze, 
flraw, or loppings of trees, will help to 
keep the banks together." 

But a better method, and more ef- 
fectual, is given by Dr. Hales, in the 
Philofophical Tranfaclions, from the 
experience of Dr. Waik, a clergyman, 
in Scotland. The method confiits in 
fixing to the bottom of the channel, 
a breadth of furze proportioned to the 
force it is to refift. The fand or (lime, 
as either abounds, will foon fettle a- 
mong the branches of the furze; and 
when the firft bed of the furze is thus 
interwoven or covered, another bed of 
furze is to be laid on as before, and lb 
on, till the bank is raifed to a fufficient 
height. Dr. Wai."'. allures us, that by 
this fimple method a bank was made 
near Holy-ifland fo ftrong, that it be- 
came a bar againft the fea itfelf. 

" It fometimes happens, that the 
fea flows in through a narrow gut or 
paffage, by which the inland waters 
are dilcharged, and then extends itfelf, 
and covers a great deal o,f ground. 
When this happens, if the inland wa- 
ters cannot be diverted into another 
courfe, fince a pailage mull be lett for 
tl>eir difcharge, let a (trcng fluice be 
fixed in the I o weft part of the channel, 
with large piers of (tone, running out 
for its fupport, and a (trong foundation 
of wood .or broad (tones for the water 
to run over. When this is done, let 
the banks of fand or other foil near at 
hand, be made in the manner already 
mentioned, on each fide of the fluice. 

8< Ths reafon why it is advifec), in 



places where a fluice is to be made, t» , 
begin t!i- work by this rather than by 
the bank, is, that wl It tides have 
liberty to flow in and cut at a great 
breadth, the fh. ice maybe madt in any 
part of the channel without being 
muchincommodtd bythctide; where- 
as, if it be deferred till the banks on 
each fide are made, the force of the 
tide, when confined to a natrow paf- 
fage, will tear up all before it, and 
render the building of the fluice im- 
practicable; and upon the fame ac- 
count, the banks fhould be begun at 
the lower part of the channel, and 
carried on from thence to the upper 
grounds. 

" If, by any accident, the waters 
fhould fwell fo high as to overflow and 
tear the banks, farther mifchief may 
be prevented by fixing with all expe- 
dition, a fail-cloth, or fheet of linen 
at the bottom of the bank, where the 
flood bTc.ks in ; for if this be done in 
time, the water will flow over the 
cioth, without warning away the bank. 

" In every improvement, the ex- 
pence fhould he particularly coniider- 
ed. That of making banks in this me- 
thod is (mall. In low grounds the foil is 
(oft, and dug with e^fs, and all the work 
may be done with the fpade and fho- • 
vel, without pick-axes, which ratift 
be ufed in upland ground ; and the 
materials are on the fpot. All the 
charge will be often mere than repaid 
by the firfl year's improved crop of 
grafs, and the fafety of the meadows, 
'i he produce of fucceedir.g years will' 
amount much higher,and the hufband- 
ni.in will be out ct aU danger for the 
future of having his lands overflowed 
and fpoiled. Farmers have frequently 
fuftained more damage from the hay 
deflroyed in one fv.fon by floods, than 
the whole value of what it would have 
cod them to indole and bank their 
meadows, and free them from all ha- 
zards." 

Banking, in a falt-work, the rai- 
ding a fence againft the fea, whereby 
its waters may be kept out, excepting 
fo much as is neceflary for the prepa- 
ration of the fait. 

If any perfen fhal! unlawfully and 
malicioufiy break down, or cut down 
the bank of any river, or any fea bank, 
whereby any lands fhail he overflowed 
or damage-.!, he fhall be guilty of fe- 
lony without benefit of clergy. And 

the 



BAR 



BAR 



the hundred fhall make fatisfaftion tor 
<he damages not exceeding 200I. 6 Geo. 
2. Chap. 37. 

If any perfon fliall unlawfully cut 
eft", draw up, or remove and carry a- 
way piles, chalk, or other materials 
driven in the ground, and ufed for fe- 
euringany marfhor fea walls, or banks, 
in order to prevent the adjacent lands 
from being overflowed, he fhall on con- 
viction before one juftice, forfeit 20I. 
half to the informer, and half to the 
poor of theparifh; and for want of 
fufheient diftrefs, to be committed to 
the houfe of correction, to be kept to 
hard labour for fix months. 

B ANISTERI A. There are fix fpe- 
cies of this plant, for which we have 
no Eriglifh name. 

They are all natives of warm coun- 
tries, and cannot be preferved in Eng- 
land, unlefs they are kept in a bark 
ftove. They are propagatsd by feeds, 
which muft be procured from thecoun- 
tries where they grow naturally. Thefe 
feeds fhould be fully ripe when ga- 
thered, and put into fand, in which 
they fhould be fent to England, other- 
wife they will lofe their vegttatjve 
quality; for thefs feeds are not only 
in fhape like thofe of the Maple, but 
alfo are of the fame quality, requiring 
to be fown as foon as pofiible, when 
they are ripe, or preferved in fand till 
they are fown, otherwife they rarely 
fucceed. The feeds fhould he fown 
in pots, and plunged into a hot-bed of 
tanners bark, where the heat is very 
moderate, and if the plants fhould not 
appear the firft year, the pots fhould 
be preferved till the next fpiing, to fee 
if the feeds will grow. When the 
plants come up, they muft be planted 
in feparate pots, filled with light earth, 
and plunged into the bark-bed; after 
which they muft be treated like other 
tender plants from the fame countries. 

BANNOCK, an oat-cake kneaded 
with water only, and baked in the 
embers. 

BANQUET, a little bank; a raifed 
way. 

BAOBAB, or Baobob, the Afri- 
can Calabafh-trec, or Ethiopian Sour- 
gourd. See Sour G o u r d . 

BAR, in a general fenfe, denotes a 
flender piece of wood, or iron, for 
keeping or faftening things together. 

Bar, in the m anage , the higheft 
part of that place 'irTanorfe's mouth, 



fltuated between the grinders and thff 
tufhes ; fo that the part of the mouth 
which lies under and at the fide of the 
bars, retains the name of the gum. 

A horfe with fsnfible bars has a fine 
light mouth; but ifthey are round 
and hard, or if they have been broken 
and cicatrized, they will often be al- 
moft infenlible. Jee. ? &f*>&t$i&>aii% 

Bar, is a bank of fand, or other 
matter, whereby the mouth of a river 
is in a manner choaked up. 

To Bar a Vein, implies an operation 
in farriery, performed in the following 
manner: they open the fkin above and 
below the place where the operation is 
to be performed, and after freeing the 
vein from the furrounding parts, they 
tie it at thofe openings with two liga- 
tures ; after which they open the vein 
between the ligatures, in order to dif- 
charge the blood. This operation is 
performed upon the veins of a horfe's 
leg, and other parts of his body, in Or- 
der to flop the courfe, and lt<Ten the 
quantity of malignant humours that 
prevail there. 

BARB, a general name for horfe. 
imported from Barbary. 

The cheft of the barb is long and 
flender, rifes beautifully from the wi- 
thers, his mane little, his head well 
fhaped, fmall, and lean ; his fhoulders 
flat and flender; his withers narrow 
and plump ; his back ftrait and fhort; 
his flanks and fides round, and not 
bellying out; his haunches firm and 
well fhaped; his croup generally fome- 
what long, and his, tail placed pretty 
high; his thigh well fhaped, and feldom 
flat; his legs handfome, well fhaptd, 
and without long hair at the paftern 
joint ; his foot well made, but his 
partem often long. 

Barbs are of all colours, but gene- 
rally brown. They are fomething neg- 
ligent in their goings; but, properly 
encouraged, fhew an amazing fwift- 
nefs and vigour: they are very light 
and fit for running, and feem of all 
others the fitteft to breed from. It 
were, however, to be wifhed, that they 
were a little taller, the largeft rarely 
exceeding fourteen hands ; and one of 
fourteen hands and an inch, is very 
extraordinary. Experience has, how- 
ever, fhewn, that in England, France, 
&c. they get colts larger than them- 
felves. Among the barbs, thofe from 
the kingdom ot Morocco, are accourr- 



BAR 



BAR 



ted the heft, except the mountain 
barbs. Thofe of the red of Mauritania 
are inferior to them, as aie alfo thofe 
of Turkey, Perfia, and Armenia. All 
horfes lrom a hot climate have a fmoo- 
ther coat than others. 

BARBADOES ALOES. See A- 

XOES. 

Barbadoes Cedar. See Cedar. 

Barbadoes Cherry, [Afalphigia] 
of which there are eight fpecies. 

The fruit of moft of the fp? ies 
is promifcuoufly gathered, and eaten 
by the inhabitants of the countries 
where they grow; but the Weft-India 
fort is that which is cultivated in 
fome of the iflandsfor its fruit, tho' 
it is but indifferent; the pulp which 
furrounds the ftone is very thin, but 
has a pleafant acid flavour, which ren- 
ders it agreeable to the inhabitants of 
thofe warm countries, where, to fup- 
ply the want of thofe cherries which 
are cultivated in Europe, they are ob- 
liged to eat the fruit of thefe fhrubs. 

Thefe plants are preferved in the 
gardens of thofe perfons who are fo 
curious in botanical fludies, as to ereift 
hot - houfes for maintaining foreign 
plants ; and where there are fuch con- 
veniences, thefe plants deferve a place, 
becaufe they retain their leaves all the 
year, and continue flowering from De- 
cember to the end of March, when 
they make a fine a; pearance at a fea- 
fon when there is a fcarcity of other 
flowers, and many times they produce 
ripe fruit here. Thofe forts whofe 
leaves are armed with flinging briftles 
like the Cowitch, are the leaft worthy 
of a place in flovcs, becaufe they are fo 
troublefome to handle, nor do thair 
flowers makefo good an appearance as 
many of the other forts. 

As thefe plants are natives of the 
vvarmeft parts of America, fo they will 
rot live through the winter in England, 
unlefs they are preferved in a warm 
ftove ; but when the plants have ob- 
tained ftrength, they may beexpofed in 
the open air in a warm fituation, from 
the middle or latter end of June till 
the beginning of October, provided 
the weather continues fo long mild ; 
and the plants fo treated will flower 
much better than thofe which are con- 
ftantly kept in a ftove. 

Thpy are all propagated by feeds, 
which mufl be fown upon a good hot- 
bed j and when the plants are fit to 



trarfplant, they muft be each put into 
a feparatefmall pot and plunged into 
a hot-bed of tanners baik, and muft 
be treated in the fame manner as we 
have directed for other tender plants 
from warm countries ; the two fir It 
winters it will be pioper to keep them 
in the bark- bed in the ftove ; but after- 
ward they may be placed upon ftands 
in the dry ftove in winter, where they 
may be kept in a temperate warmth, 
in which they will thrive much better 
than in a greater heat; thefe muft be 
watered two or three times a week, 
when they are placed in a dry dove, 
but it muft not be given to them in 
laige quantities. 

Barbadoes Flower-Fence, or 
Spanijh Carnatiens, [Po'mciana.] This 
plant, of which there are two varieties, 
though they feem to be accidental ones, 
grows naturally in both Indies ; on« 
hath a red and the other a ytllow 
flower. It is planted in hedges to 
divide the land in Barbadoes, trom 
whence it had the title of Flower- 
Fence; but in fome of the Britifh if- 
lands it is called Spanifh Carnations. 
It rifes with a (trait italk from ten to 
twenty feet high, and then divides into 
feveral fpreading branches; the flowers 
are beautifully variegated with red or 
orange and yellow, and have a very 
agreeable odour : the leaves are ufed 
in the Weft-Indies as a purgative, in- 
ftead of fena ; hence fome call it fena. 

Ligon fays, the feeds of this plant 
were firft carried to Barbadoes from 
Cape Verd lflands, and the beauty of 
the flowers was fuch, that the inha- 
bitants foon fpread it over that ifland, 
and afterwards it was tranfported into 
moft of the neighbouring iflands. This 
may have been fo, but it is very cer- 
tain that the plant grows naturally in 
Jamaica, where the late Dr. Houftoun 
found it in the woods at a great dif- 
tance from any fettlements. He alfo 
found it growing naturally at La Vera, 
Cruz, and at Campeachy, where he 
alfo found the two varieties with red 
and yellow flowers. 

The feeds of this plant are annually 
brought over in plenty from the Weft- 
Indies, which, if fown upon a hot- 
bed, will rife eafily. When the plants 
are come up, they mould be trans- 
planted each into a fmall pot, and 
plunged into a hot-bed of tanners 
bark, obferving to fhade them from the 
M fun 



BAR 



BAR 



fun till they have taken root; after 
winch they mu'.l have frefh air in pro- 
portion to the warmth o( the fcafon, 
2nd he frequently refreshed with wa- 
fer. When the plants liave ailed the 
pots with their r^ots, they fhould be 
tfiaken out and placed into larger ones, 
fhat they may have ivom to grow. If 
care oe taken to water and fhii'c them 
2s Often" as it is neceffary, they will 
grow to be three feel high the firft fea- 
fbn. At Michaelmas the pots fhould 
Be. plunged into a frefh het-bed of tan- 
rters bark in the ftove, which fh&uid 
be kept to the ananas heat marked in 
the botanical thermometers, and fre- 
quemly reirefhed witii water, but 
they fhould not have too much water 
in winter. The earth which thefe 
plant.-, fhould be planted in, mult be 
frefh, light, and fand'y, but not over 
rich, in which they will ftand the 
winter better than if planted in a 
llronger foil. 

Thefe plants roufj conflantly remain 
in the bark- ftove, where in warm 
weather they fhoulci have a large lhare 
of air, but they muft not be expofed 
tt> cold ; if damp feizes their top, it 
Very often kills the plants, or at leaft 
occafions the lofs of their heads. With 
proper management they will grow 
much taller here than they ufualiy do 
in Barbadoes, but their (terns will not 
be larger than a man's finger, which 
is occasioned by their being drawn up 
by the glaffes of the ftove . Mr. Miller 
had fume of thefe plants more than 
eighteen feet high in the Chelfea gar- 
den, which produced their beautiful 
flowers feveral years. Thefe flowers 
have always appeared in December, 
but in the Weft-Indies they are faid 
to flower twice in a year, at which 
times they make a moft beautiful ap- 
pearance. 

Bar badoes Tar, [Petroleum Ear- 
badenfe.] A mineral fluid nearly of the 
fame confidence of common tar : it 
is of a reddifh black colour, a difa- 
greeable fmel), lefs pungent than the 
other forts. This bitumen is found 
in feveral of our American i (lands, 
where it is efteemed by the inhabi- 
tants of great fervice as a fudorific, 
and in diforders of the breaft and 
lungs; thougli in cafes of this kind, 
atrer . d with inflammation, it is cer- 
tainly improper ; they likewife apply 
it externally as a difcutient, and for 



preventing paralytic diforders. Among 
us it is rarely ufed, and not often 
to be met with genuine. The college 
employ it as a m^nftruum, lor fulphur 
in the batfamxm (uiphuris Barbadtnje, and 
dii eel an oil to be difiirlcd trom it. 

BA&BERJIY, Pi^erul^-Bufli, or 
Crofi'-Thorn, [Serb'eris . J A fhrub that 
gio.vs fyttuEally in the hedges in many 
parts of England ; it is alfo cultivated 
m gardens lor its fruit, which, is pick- 
led, and ufed for garnifhh.-g difhes.— 
This fhrub rifes with many ltaiks from 
the root, to the height ol eight or ten 
feet. The flowers appear in May, and 
the fruit ripens in September. 

It may be propagated either by fuck- 
ers, of which there are plenty about 
the old roots, or by layers. 

The belt time for laying down ths 
branches, is in the autumn, when their 
leaves begin to fall ; the young (hoots 
of the fame year are the beft for this 
purpoie. Thefe will be rooted by the 
next autumn, when they may be taken 
off, and planted where they aie de- 
figned to remain. 

A fuolilh fuperftition has for many 
ages prevailed among the Farmers in 
many parts of England, namely, that 
a field of corn will always be blafted, 
if a barberry fhrub grows in any one 
of the hedges that furround it. But 
thefe ridiculous notions are now pret- 
ty well banifhed from the generality 
of our hufbandmen, and it is hoped', 
the reft will foon follow their example. 

Tho outward bark of the branches, 
and the leaves, have3n aftringent acid 
tafte ; the inner yellow bark, a bitter 
one ; this laft is faid to be ferviceable 
in the jaundice ; and by fome, to be 

an ufeful purgative. The berries, 

which to the tafte are gratefully acid, 
and moderately reliringent, liave been 
given with good fuccefs in bilious 
fluxes, and difeafes proceeding from 
heat, acrimony, or thinnefs of the 
juices. Among the E yptians, barber- 
ries are frequently employed in fluxes, 
and in malignant fevers, for abating 
heat, quenching thirft, raifing the 
ftrength, and preventing putrefaction : 
the fruit is macerated for a day and 
night, in about twelve times its quan- 
tity of water, with the addition of a 
little fennel feed, or the like, to pre- 
vent offence to the ftomach ; the li- 
quor (trained off", and fweetened with 
fugar, or fyrup of citrons, is given the 
patient 



BAR 



BAR 



patient liberally to drink. Profper 
Alpinus (from whcfe t-rteaftfe De Me- 
dicina VEgyptiorrjm, we hav^. extrac- 
ted thfe account) informs us, that he 
took this medicine himfelf, with hap- 
py fuccefs, in a peftilenrial fever, ac- 
companied with an immoderate bili- 
ous diarrhoea. 

BARBLLS, or F<iros, are excref- 
fences or knots of fuperfiuous flefh, 
growing under the tonrue cf horfes 
and cows, and may be feen by drawing 
it af;de. 

They are cured by cutting them 
elofe off, and warning the wounded 
part with brandy, or fait and water. 

BARDANA.'See Bimipock. 

BARDELLE, a f'dcie niade only 
of cloth .'luffed with flraw, and tied 
tight down with pack-thread, with- 
out either leather, wood, or iron. 
In Italy they trot their c^ks with fuch 
faddles. 

BARCARIUM.a berghery. afheep- 
oote, and fometimes a (heep w 

To BARD, or Ueetrd Wool, is to cut 
the head and neck from the reft of the 
fleece. 8. Hen. 6. Ckap. iz. 

BARG, a horfe-way up a fleep 
hill. 

BARGAIN and SALE, is a contract 
in confideration of money, paffing an 
eftate in lands by deed indented. 

BARGARER, an old word for a 
fhepherd. 

BARILLA, a fpecies of pot afh, 
fometimes called Soda, prepared in 
Spain, from a plant called Kali, or 
Glafs-wort. 

BARING cf trees. See Ablaojje- 

ATION. 

BARK., the exterior part of a tree, 
which ferves for a fkin or covering. 

It is compofed of four fimilar parts, 
viz. 

i. The epidermis cuticle or fcarf- 
fkin, which enfolds the beds of the 
bark. 

2. Veffels containing the fap. 

3. Veffels containing the blood or 
proper juice of the plant. 

4. The cellular web or tiffue. 

The epidermis is a very fine mem- 
branous fubftance that is fpread over 
the bark, and is always trvinfparent 
and elaftic, without colour or any 
fenfihla organifations, fame very fmall 
pores excepted, which are fometimes 
difcovered in its fubftance, and pro- 
bably ferve the double purpofe of 



throwing off the fuperfluous nourifh- 
ment, and imbibing new. 

The fap veffel-> are woody longitu- 
dinal fibres, which are hollow, and 
almoft inconceiva 1 b Bn*. They are 
frnple, devoid of r Unifications, ar.d 
fo fituated, with rtfpecd to each other, 
as to form a tiffue or web of feveral 
bundles in form of a net, the mefbes 
of which are longer than broad . '1 htfe 
fnia'.l bundles are the true vegetable 
mufcles, and differ in their figure from 
thofe of animals, which are formed 
of iarge maffes of fibres accumulated 
one above another. 

The pioper veffels, caMed likewife, 
from their ufe. veec-tal-le blood-vcffels, 
are flrait longitudinal fibres, la-rger 
than thefap-vefieL, ar.d left numerous. 
They are filled with t'e proper juice, 
which is generally coloured, and is, in 
fa'cl, the biood of the plant. Of this 
kind is the milk of fpurge, dog's-bane, 
and fig, the yellow juice cf celandine, 
the refill of fir and pine trees, and 
the mucilage of plants of the mallow 
tribe. 

The cellular web, or tiffue, is an 
affemblace ct little bladders, with- 
out any fcnfible com muni o: ion, which 
fill the interfaces or mefhes of the net 
formed by the fip veffels, and traverfc 
the whole fubftance of the bark and 
wood, fiom the pith or medullary 
fubftance in the centre, of which it is 
only a prolongation, to the epidermis 
or fkin of the baik, where it is nuch 
flenderer than towards the centre of 
the wood. 

Dr. Agiicola fays, that the bark of 
a tree may be con. pared to the fkin of 
an animal, which is deftgned tor thfc 
prefervation of the inward parts. It is 
generally of a fpongy texture and 
communicates with the pith, by a. 
multiplicity of fmall fibres paffing be- 
tween 1 he capillary tubes, of which 
the wood cor.fifb ; fo that the roots 
having imbibed the proper nutriment 
of the tree, it is carried up by thp 
warmth of the fun, through the fine 
arterial veffels of the tree to the top 
of it ; and being there condenfed by 
the cold, it returns by its own gravity 
down by the veffels which lie between; 
the wood and the inner bark, which 
perform the office of veins ; and as it 
paffes by, leaves fuch part of its juices 
as the texture of the bark will receive, 
and requires for its fupport, 

M 2. Some 



BAR 



BAR 



Some authors, are of opinion, that 
the foft vvhrifh rind, or Subftance 
which 1 es between the inntr hark and 
the wood, p.rf< rms the office 01 vers, 
and f< me call this a third hark, f'ip- 
pofirg it to differ from the orhei on]/ 
in I avm;; its fibres clofer ; aridhgthat 
this ib the pa t which contains the li- 
quid fap sums, &c found in plants 
during the fpring and fummei months, 
and which hardening by degrees, is 
imperceptibly conveyed into the wood 
p«rt ot the tiee, forming every year a 
new circled wocd between the bark 
and the trunk. Thefe circles are not 
equa ly thick, that circumstance de- 
pending on the lertility of the year. 

The ancients wrote their hooks on 
bark, efytcidlly ol the am and lime- 
tree j not on the exterior, but on the 
inner and finer bark. 

'J here are many kinds of barks in 
ufe in the feveral arts : as the oak hark 
for tanning leather, which, when it has 
done that office, is fit for ufe in hot- 
houfes, &c. Some barks are ufed in 
medicine, as thejtfuits' bark, mace, 
&c. and others for divers purpofes, as 
the bark of the cork-tree. In the Eaft- 
Indies they fpin the bark of a certain 
tree into a fruff; they alfo mix it with 
Silk in manufacturing of fluffs, which 
go und<r different denominations. 

The bark oi trees in general, and 
efpecially that of the oak, is extremely 
ufetul in vegetation. One load of 
oak haik laid in a heap and rotted af- 
ter the tanners have ufed it for drcf- 
fing their leather, will do more Service 
to fiiff ccld lard, and its effects will 
laft longer, than two loads, of the ri-h- 
efi dung. Mr. Miller fays it is much 
better for cold, ftiong land, than for 
light, hot ground, it it be ufed alone, 
as taken from the tan-yard; becaufeit 
is ot a warm natuie, and will loofen 
and ftpar.te the earth fo effectually, 
that, by only u' ng n ' vvo or three 
times, a Strong foil, not eafy to he 
wrought, will be rendered perfectly 
lipht and looie : but by mixing it with 
earth of a nature cortrary to that 
which it is inttnded to correct, and in 
a pr< portion luittd to the nature of 
the foil it is to be laid on, it will prove 
a nne manure for alrnofl any land ; 
its falts being fuch as will always fer- 
tilize the ground. 

It neceffarily abounds in vegetable 
parts, derived from the tree to which 



it once belonged ; and cannot but b* 
She ngly impregn .ttd with animal jui- 
ces, as it lies a long time in the tan- 
va.s. with the fk n» and hides of ani- 
mal ; cirtumtfances whici: mufl ten- 
der it fmgularly beneficial to all poor 
lands. 

If laid on grafs, it fhould he fpread 
foon after Michaelmas, that the winter 
rains may wafh it into the ground : 
for if ii He laid on in the fpring, it will 
be apt to hum the grafs, and, inftead 
of improving, will do it a considerable 
injury for that feafon. Y- hen u'ed for 
corn land, it fhould be fpread before 
the laft plcug'.ing, that it may be 
turned down lor the fibres of corn to 
reach it in the fpring ; for it it lies 
too near the Surface, it will forward 
the growth of the corn in winter; and 
in the fpring, when the nourishment 
is chiefly wanted to encourage the 
growth of the plants, it will be fo 
nearly confumed, that the corn will 
receive vtry little advantage from it. 

Mr. Bradley tells us, that headvifed 
a gentleman to whom a considerable 
quantity of bark was left upon the ex- 
piration of the leafe of a tan-yard, to 
lay fome of it upon a piece of Stubborn 
four land, which he did with fuch fuc- 
cefs, that his product was admired by 
all the gardeners and farmers in the 
neirhhourhood. For fuch ground, he 
thinks it Should be mixed with a fandy 
foil ; and that one third of bark to two 
thirds oi fand, will be a very fufficient 
proportion for clays. 

BARK BOUND, a difeafe common 
tc fruit-trees, and may be cued by 
making a Slit thiough the i^aik from 
the top of the tree to the bottom, in Fe- 
bruary orMarch; and if the gaping be 
pretty confiderable,nll up the rift with 
cow-dung. 

BARKING of Trees, the operation of 
ffri ping or peeling off the bark or 
rind, particulaily that of the oak, for 
the ufe of tanners. 

To prevent deer, &c .from injuring the 
Bark cf trees: Take lime, that has 
been long lain at- the bottom of a t. n- 
p t. and mix this in a tub with frefh 
human otdnre. fo as to make it of fuch 
a cor.fiftence that it may be laid on 
the Stems an^ branches of trees by 
a Small fized brufh, fuch as is ufed by 
white-waShers ; or it may be daubed 
on Shreds of bafs mats, pieces of old 
rope, &c. to be tied round the Stems 

and 



EAR 



BAR 



and branches from the bottom to tlie 
top. This mult he renewed twice in 
a year, or three times at the moft, and 
is comparative!)' o) no expence nor 
trouble. — Cattle will not come near or 
injure the fmalleft or tendeteii plant 
that is daubed with this mixture. 

Something like I his prafticewas re- 
commended above an hundred years 
ago. by the celebrated Sir Hugh Piatt 
and Mr, Evelyn. Sir Hugh, in his 
" Garden of Eden," amcngft his fe- 
Ctets ol ordering trees and plants, gives 
the following : " Mix green cow-dung 
and urine together ; walh the trees 
with a brufh, as high as you think 
meet, once in two or three months, 
and it will keep the trees from balk- 
ing with hearts, conies, &c. and the 
fame doth alfo deftroy the canker." 
Mr. Evelyn fays, " Deer, conies, and 
hares, by barking the tree- in haid 
winter, (poll many tender plantations. 
Next to the utter dertroying them, 
there is nothing better t,han to anoint 
that part which is within their reacii 
with Jlercus kumanum, tempered with 
a little water or urine, and lightly 
brufhed on: This renewed after every 
great rain. But a cleanlier than this, 
and yet which conies and even ca'.tle 
moft abhor, is to water or fprinkle 
them with tanner's liquor, viz. that 
which theyufe for drefling their hides." 
Vide Dr. Hunter's edition of Evelyn's 
Silva, p. 447. 

Jefuii'i Bark, [£>vfojtiina]. Seethe 
next article. 

Perutjar. Bark, \Peruvianut Cortex,"] 
is the bark ct a tall (lender tree, grow- 
ing inPeru. Jt is brought to us in pieces 
of different fizes, fometimes rolled up 
into fhert thick quills, and fometimes 
flat -. the outfide is brownifh, and ge- 
nerally covered in part with a whitifh 
raofs; the infide is of a yellcwifli, 
reddifh, or rurty iron colour. It has 
a lightly aromatic fmell, fomewhat 
miirty, yet net difagreeable ; a hit- 
terifh, aftringent taite, which dwells 
long upon the tongue, accompanied 
with a degree of aromatic warmth, 
The fmall, thin, flat pieces are by 
fome accounted the belt ; by others, 
the quill fort, with the rougheft coat, 
efpecially if of a bright cinnamon co- 
Jour on the infide : though the large 
flat pieces, whether rough or fmcoth, 
of a lighter or darker colour, are often 
pf equal goodnefs. The bed bark is 



that which is ftrongeft in fmeil and 
talte : this likewife proves friable be-' 
twixt the teeth, and doth not feparate- 
into fibres; it breaks not fhivery, but 
dole and fmooth. 

The virtues of this bark, as a febri- 
fuge, were difcovered by the Indians 
about the yeir 1500: Europe did not 
become acquainted with it till 1649: 
nor was it received into general prac- 
tice till feveial years alter this : fome 
ill confcquences,enfuing from its im- 
prudent ufe, having brought it for a 
time into difrepute. At prefent, it is 
looked upon as the moft effectual re- 
medy jn intermittent fevers of almoft 
every kind, and fafe in ail ages and 
eonltitutions ; provided it be judici- 
ously and feafonably adminiftered, and 
due regard be had to thecircumftances 
of the dileafe. The modern practice, 
previous to the exhibition of this me- 
dicine, ufurtlly gives an emetic at the 
beginning of a paroxifm ; in fome 
cafes a cathattic, and in plethoric ha- 
bits vena;f. cVion, arepren.ifed : thefe 
render the bark not only more {die, 
but likewife more certain and fpeedy 
in its operation : where thefe evacua- 
tions are neglected or not fufficiently 
plentiful, the difeafe, if of long Hand- 
ing, fcarce yields to the ccrttx ; or if it 
appears at length fubdued, yet the pa- 
tient does not recover his ftrene;th, 
and foon fuffers a relapfe. The ufe of 
the bark is begun at the end of a pa- 
roxyfm, and repeated, in the quantity 
of half a dram, (more or lefs according 
ro the circumftances of the patient) 
every thir! or foutth hour during the 
intermiffion : where the Fever is of the 
bilious kind, and accompanied with 
great heat, a liale nitre is joined : in 
all cafes, moderate exercife generally 
promotes its effect. At firrt, it ul'u- 
ally loofens the beily, and fbme-times 
operates as if a cathartic had been ta- 
ken 5 and by this means fupplies the 
omiffion of evacuations before its ex- 
hibition : if the purging continues, r he 
medicine does not anfwer t! c pui pr»fcs 
intended by it: in fuel) cafe .1 iiniie 
opium is added, which iff ftually flip, 
pielfes the flux: if, after this, the pa- 
tient continues too coltive, recourfe is 
had to glifters. The loofenefs, how- 
ever, ought not tc be ftopt too foon : 
on the contrary, where the bark does 
not itfelf produce this effect, it is ne- 
ceffary, Dr. Mead informs us, to join 



BAR 



BAR 



to it a little rhubarb, fo as to occafion 
for a time two fiools a day; by this 
means the difeafe is more effectually 
cured, and lefs fubjedt to be followed 
by a dropfy, or ill habit of body : af- 
ter a dram or two of rhubarb had been 
taken, it is to bedifcontinued, and the 
bark exhibited by itfelf. During the 
ufe of the bark, the pulfe (which, be- 
twixt the paroxyfms, is generally weak 
and flow) becomes ftrongerand quick- 
er, the appetite mends, the patient be- 
comes more chearful, and perfpiration 
Jncreafes ; thefe may be looked upon 
as certain prefages of itsfuccefs. Thefe 
effects of the bark have been too fre- 
quently overlooked in the cure of 
agues, though it is certain, that per- 
fpiration, for inftancc, contributes 
greatly to it : hence in warm westhcr, 
fevers yield more eafily than in cold, 
thofe which have continued all the 
winter, frequently go off fpontaneoufly 
on the return of fummer; and exer- 
cife alone has fomctimes performed a 
cure. Alter the fever has been re- 
moved, the medicine is continued for 
fome time longer, to prevent a relapfe; 
and evacuations, unlefs abfolutely ne- 
ceffary, abflained from. The difeafe 
is neve rthelefs feldom compleatly cu- 
red before fome very confiderable eva- 
cuation, either by ftool, urine, or per- 
fpiration, enfues : if this does nor fuc- 
ceed fpontaneoufly, cathartics, diure- 
tics, or diaphoretics, are given in con- 
junction with the bark, otherwife the 
patient continues weak, and without 
appetite, till either the difeafe returns, 
or changes into one of a different kind. 

In fymptomatic agues, hectic, and 
purulent fevers, cacochymic habits, 
and where the hypochondres are f wel- 
led and diftended, this medicine is im- 
proper, and for the moft part prejudi- 
cial. Its manifelt allrir.gency forbids 
its ufe in obstructions of the abdomi- 
nal vifcera, or fuppreffion of any ciiti- 
cal evacuation ; 'intii the obltruction 
5s firft removed, or the evacuation had 
its due courfe. 

In acute, inflammatory, or malig- 
nant fevers, the bark doe? not feem 
to have any good effect. Nevcrthelefs, 
in the decline of long nervous fevers, 
or after a remiffion, when from bad 
habit, old age, fatigue, or the like, the 
patient is extremely weak, and the 
pulfe low, the cortex proves a medicine 
of excellent ferviee ; provided that 



there is no extravafation, that the vef- 
fels remain entire, and pus is not al- 
ready formed. 

Peruvian bark has likewife been 
found eminently ferviceable in gan- 
grenes and mortifications, proceeding 
either from an internalor external caufe. 
In all the cafes of this kind, where it 
proved fuccefsful, it occafioned a kind 
fuppuration, which degenerated when 
the ufe of the medicine was difconti- 
nued, and again turner! kindl) upon 
refuming it. Some have been hence 
induced to exhibit the cortex in vario- 
lous cafes, where either the pullules 
did net rightly fuppurate, or petechia; 
fhewed ariifpoi.tion toagangrene; and 
here likewife it anfwered expectation : 
the empty veficles filled with matter, 
the watery fanies changed into thick: 
white pus, the petechia: became gra- 
dually of a pale colour, and at length 
difappeared, and the pox began to turn 
fooner than was expected. 

The bark has been applied likewife, 
and not without fuccefs, to the cure of 
periodic head-aches, hyfteric and hy* 
pochondriac fits, and other diforders, 
which have regular inrermiffions. By 
its aftringency and aromatic quality, 
it flrengthens the whole nervous fyf- 
tem, and proves ufeful in weaknefs of 
the ftomach, and fundry chronical dif- 
orders, proceeding from too great la- 
xity of the fibres". In obfHnate ute- 
rine fluxes, and old gleets, bark joined 
with chalybeates has notable effects. 

The virtues of Peruvian bark refide 
chiefly in a refmous fubfbnce, and 
hence' are extracted in perfeftion by 
rectified fpirit. Aqueous liquors gain 
little from it, without flrong co&ion, 
by which the refin is melted out, and 
mingled with the water; which whilft 
hot, appears tranfparent, but in cool- 
ing grows turbid, and depofits great 
part of the refin to the bottom. Wa- 
ter elevates in dillillation the aroma- 
tic part of the bark : pure fpirit brings 
over nothing. Hence an aqueous ex- 
trad proves not. only lefs in quantity, 
but likewife inferior in quality to one 
made with reclined fpirit. Proof fpi- 
rit extracts the virtues of this drug in 
tolerable perfection, in the cold; heat 
enables it to take up more than it can. 
retain when cold. Spirit of fai am- 
moniac, prepared with fixt alcaline 
falts, gains very little from the cortex, 
either with or without heat ; the fpi- 
rit 



BAR 



BAR 



tit prepared with quick-lime, 2nd the 
dulciried fpirit, in a few hours become 
ilrongJy impregnated with the fmeil 
and tafte. 

The fubftances ufually joined with 
bark in piefcription, feem calculated 
either to promote its efficacy, or 
merely for reducing it into the inten- 
ded form ; without much regard 10 
its agreeablenefs, and the cenveniency 
of taking it: this is, neverthelefs, a 
point of great confequence, as its taile 
and the quantity which is r.eceliary, 
make the patient too frequently loath 
it before enough has been taken ro 
produce the deiired effect. Ifdefigned 
to be exhibited in the folid form of a 
bolus, elcftary, &c. it mould be made 
up, not, as is cultomary, with fyrups, 
but with mucilages: with the former, 
it fticks about the mouth and fauces, 
whence its tafte remains for a confi- 
derabletime; w/th the latter, it paffts 
freely, fearce leaving any tafie in the 
mouth. Aromatics do not prevent the 
tafie of the bark difcoveiing itfelf; 
extract of liquorice very effectually 
conceals it. The extract of logwood 
aifo, joined to that of bark, and a pro- 
per quantity of mucilage, form a very 
elegant and agreeable coinpotikcn. 

BARLER1A. We have no Englifh 
name for this plant, of which there are 
feveral fpecies ; but in Jamaica it is 
called Snap-dragon. When the feeds 
are received from abroad, they mult 
be fown upon a moderate hot-bed in 
thefpring; and when the plants are 
fit to remove, tiiey muft be each plan- 
ted in a feparate pot, and plunged 
into a hot-bed of tanners bark, where 
they mull remain, and be treated in 
the fame manner as other tender ex- 
otics. 

Some of them are eafily propagated 
by cuttings during thefummer months. 
The feed-veffels are very elaftic, and 
throw out the feeds with violence, on 
biesg touched when ripe. 

BARLEY, \lh,dcum\ a well-known 
fpecies of grain much cultivated in 
England, for the purpofe of making 
malt. See the art'iclc Malt- 

Barley is faid to have been the firft 
grain introduced for the fuftenance of 
man, the cultivation of which was 
taught by the Goddefs Ms to the Egyp- 
tians, according to the mod ancient 
biiiories of that nation. It appear* 
from Diodorus Sicu'us, jhat Ifis found 



Ma/fZ/Z 



tiry. 



%■ £e //// 



the plants of barley and wheat grow- 
ing in the woods, and that fhe taught 
man how to collect, fow, and culti- 
vate them. It is much efteemed for 
bread in many countries ; and though 
wheat bread principally pievails in this 
kingdom, yet it is the common food of 
ordinary people in fome of the coun- 
ties; and experience fhews it to bs 
whoiefome and nourifhing. Barley 
bread, however, has one very peculiar 
inconvenience, which is that of giving 
the heart-burn to pregnant women, 

In feveral parts of Europe bailey is u- 
fed, as oats are with us, fcr Seeding hor- 
fcs. This was the uiage of the ancient 
Romans, and is ftill fo 01 the Spaniards 
and &ther nations, who make no ufe of 
malt. It ferves admirably tor ta'ten- 
in? hogs, poultry, &c but this we need 
not defcribe. Boiled barley is much 
ufed by fome horfe dealers to pamper 
hor!e = and make their coats fleck. 

Barley ch.fr is likewife mixed with 
corn for horfes ; but we have known 
feveral difagreeabie confequences of 
this, ariiing from the piles, or peels, 
flicking in the herfes mouths. But 
the chaff is excellent to (hew in gar- 
dens, for no fnail o: Aug can poffibly 
crawl ever its fharp awns or beards. 

We fhall net attempt to give a mi- 
nute account of its cultivation, every 
Farmer beii;g fufhei-ently acquainted 
with it ; but fhall only add fuch re- 
marks as we think are not fo univer- 
fally known ; premifmg that the vari- 
ous names do not denote fo many dif- 
ferent fpecies of barley, but are fre- 
quently given to it on account of large 
quantities being raifed at or near fome 
particular places ; hence we have Pat- 
ney barley, and Fulham barley, which 
are both the fame fpecies, as the Spring 
or Rathripe barley : the want of this 
diflin&ion has occafioned no fmall 
cwnfulion among theoretical writers on 
husbandry. 

Mr. Miller enumerates four fpecies ; 
1. Spring barley; 2. Common long- 
eared barley ; 3. Sprat, or Battledore 
barley ; 4. Winter, or Square barley, y» ' 
commonly called Bear , or Big ; all the «-<■<: // 
others being only varieties of thefe. 
Some add the Naked, or French barley, i/c-c — 
but this he confiders as one of the va- 
rieties of wheat. There is, however, 
another fpecies introduced from Sibe- — • 
ria, which produces larger crops than 
our forts ; but tfien it mould always 

be 

Dsl ///si &-\ Jfoacf- /o&?D , 



BAR 



A K 



be confidered, that large crops impo- 
verifh foils more than flender ones, 
and be (ides, it is not fo good for malt as 
the Patney barley, which, on account 
of its beautiful colour, thin fkin, the 
plumpnefa of the grain, ar.d the quan- 
tity obtained from an acre, may mdif- 
putably be reckoned equal, if not fu- 
perior, to any other fort in Europe. 

Some care is required in the choice 
of land for baiiey, there being large 
tracks which will bring good wheat, 
clover, &c. that will not bear good bar- 
ley ; this can only be known to the 
occupier. There are, generally fpeak- 
ing, two forts of foils which are not fo 
proper as forne others ; thefe are, the 
very light loofe foil which wants a fta- 
plej and the ItifT binding foil that of- 
ten requires more labour to get it into 
order than can well be fpared, or the 
feafon will admit of: the former may 
be much improved by marie, clay/&c. 
for theother we recommend the fpiky 
roller, which will bieak the clots infi- 
nitely fooncr than the clotting mauls 
or beetles. 

In drawing turnips, when they prs- 
oede bailey, care lhould be taken to 
rake over the holes, left the water 
ihould ftand in them, (as it fometimes 
will) and chill the land. 

The land fhould be in good heart, 
as well as in good tilth, and then a 
good barley crop will fometimes. pay 
more than the wheat crop. Warm 
foils, well dre/Ted, feldom fail to pro- 
duce good barley. We would recom- 
mend manuring tor barley, rather than 
wheat : fome fold upon it as foon as 
the feed is fown ; hut this would 
prove fatal in a ltiff foil and rainy 
weather. 

The held fhould be frequently plow- 
ed, a fine tilth being abfolutely nccef- 
fary j we think the land fhould not 
have lefs than five ploughing* ; but 
fix and even ftsicn ploughing*, will 
well repay the hufbandman, by pro- 
ducing a crop to much more plentiful 
than can be had in the common ordi- 
nary culture. 

The time for fowing depends fo 
much upon the foil and the feafon, that 
we fliali leave it, together with the re- 
quisite quantity of feed, to the Far- 
mer's judgment ; though we think, 
with Mr. Miller, that in common they 
over-feed their good land. If the land 
ihould bake after i: is fown, a light 



harrow drawn over it, will prove the 
beit remedy. 

Witli refpedt to the feed, if it comes 
off a ftiff ltrong fojl, the barley will 
not ripen fo foon a> when it comes off 
warm light land ; and though a pro- 
per change of feed trom different foils, 
ia neccflary to pieferve the grain trom 
degenerating, yet this remark will ge- 
nerally be tound to hold good. 

The advantages of fowing the Put- 
ney, or Rathripe barley, in preference 
to fome oi the other forts, on a good 
wann foil, fhi'Uld not be lorgotten, as 
it will letch a better pi ice than the late 
thick fkinned barley, which ia raifed 
upon heavy land. 

Great caution is neceffary in roll- 
ing bailey. It fhould not be rolled 
with a very heavy i oiler as foon aa it is 
(own 5 this would too much counter- 
act the effecls expecled from lepeated 
ploughing*; neither fhould it be rol- 
led when the barley is juli come up ; 
for the clots of eaitli, which the roller 
mult break, would fpread and fmothcr 
many of the ftalks or fpires, while 
they are fo very tender ; on the other 
hand, if the barley be too high, the 
roller will fquetze the fhtlks, and 
make them bleed ; the medium, when 
the barky is about two or three inches 
high, is much the belt time for this 
buiinefs. 

It is ufual in great part of the king- 
dom, to fow grafa-fced with barley ; 
but this is attended with great incon- 
venience. If the clover, &c. grows 
quick, it will foon over-power the 
barley, and much injure the crops 
this, however, may he guarded againit 
by fowing the clover feed at teethe bar- 
ley is up ; but then, if there fnould be 
a rainy catching harveft, it will hardly 
be poffible to get the barley fufnei- 
ently dried ; fo that many thoufand 
quartei'a of ba' ley are annually fpoiled, 
or at leai't much damaged. Hence it 
is now common v ith many I-armers •> 
to fow their cLver upon their wheat ; 
in the fpring, efpecially fince har- 
rowing wheat at that time has been 
f. und to be 01 fucli g eat utility ; but 
this will be more particularly confi- 
dered under the article Clover. 

Mr. Lifle's remark on the pooreft 
fandy foil at Patney being fown with 
Rathripe barley, is without any foun- 
dation in truth. The foil is in gene- 
ral fandy, but rich ; fo far from being 
poor 



BAR 



BAR 



poor or barren, their incloTcd tillage 
land feldom or never fallow ; and if 
the farmers beftow but a moderate 
fhare of husbandry upon it, they are 
certain (as far as human art or induf- 
try can afford certainly) of a large crop 
of fine corn. 

As barley will not commonly come 
up in a very dry time, Mr.Lifle obferves, 
that if it was; fowed in the evening, 
and left all night to bemoiftened with 
the dew, and narrowed the next morn- 
ing, it is very probable the effect would 
be a falutary one. This notion is con- 
firmed by the Rev. Mr. Elliott in his 
EfTays on Field Hufbandry. He fays, 
that a Farmer who was obliged to at- 
tend bufmefsin the courfe of the morn- 
ing, fowed fome oats at break of day, 
and harrowed them in before fun-ri- 
fing; the confequence was, that thefe 
early fovvn oats out-ftripped the other 
oats fown in the fame field after the 
fun was up, and likewife produced a 
better crop at harveft. 

Mr. Lifle gives us another infiance 
of a malter in Hampfhire, who having 
taken fome lands in the beginning of 
May, when no feed was to be had, 
fowed fome barley that he had wetted 
for malt and was jult well chitted or 
fprouted, which produced as good a 
crop, he fays, as any fowed that year. 
Thefe experiments he thinks are in 
favour of fteeping or moiftening bar- 
ley before it be fowed. 

It may be expected, that we fhould 
mention the different methods of pesJ- 
ing barley, to fit it for the market. 
Some threfh it over again, while it is 
in the chaff, and this is beft done by 
two threfhers on account of the quick- 
nefs of the flrokes keeping the barley 
in motion. Others put half a bufhel 
of the winnowed bailey into a fack, 
which is fhaken brifkly to and fro 
by a man at each end, till the peels are 
rubbed off; this method is much ap- 
proved of. A third method is by an 
inftrument fomewhat refembling a 
gridiron, but with the handle fixed on 
the top, by which the labourer lifts it 
up and down till he has beat off the 
beards ; this inftrument is called a 
peeling iron, but the method is at beft 
a laborious one. 

For the culture of Bear Barley or 
Big, fee Bear. 

French Barley, [HordeumGa'.licum, 
five Mundatum] Common barley is 



fometimes fo^called when freed from 
the fhell. ifce aW-C/X?* £& . 

Pearl Bar ley, [Hordeum Per!aium~] 
is principally prepared in Germany and 
Holland, by grinding the fhellecl barley 
into little round granules, which ap- 
pear of a pearly whitenefs. 

Barley, in its feveral ltates, is more 
cooling, iefs glutinous, and left nutri- 
tious, than wheat or oats: among the 
antients, decoctions of it were the 
_ principalalimentand medicinein acute 
difeafes. It being more abfterfive than 
the other grain of which bread is ufu- 
ally made, thofe who are not accuf- 
tomed to eat barley bread will find it 
at firft to operate like a gentle cathar- 
tic. Barley beyond all difpute makes 
the worft kind of bread, which has 
likewife one difagreeable property pe- 
culiar to itfelf, which is that of giving 
the heartburn to pregnant women. 
Boiled barley is much ufed by fome 
hone-dealers to pamper their horfes 
and make their coats fine and fleek, 
when they are intended for fale. 

Barley Water, \_A^ua Hordcata] is 
made thus, 

Take of Pearl Barley, two ounces ; 
Water, four pints. 
Firft wafh the barley from the mealy 
matterthat adheres to it withfomecold 
water; then boil it a little with aoout 
half a pint of frefh water, which will 
acquire a confiderable tinge from ir. 
Throw away this tinged water, and 
put the barley into the water above 
prefcribed, made firft to boil, and con- 
tinue the boiling till half the water is 
wafted. 

However trivial medicines of this 
clafs may appear to be, they are of 
greater importance in the cure of fun- 
dry acute difeafes than many more la- 
borious preparations. 

Barley Sugar, [Saccharum Horded' 
turn, feu Pen\d\atuni\ is made by boiling 
white fugar in barley water till it ac- 
quires fuch a confiftence that it may 
be drawn out and twifted into threads 
or ftrings. 

Bar ley-Corn, tn long meafure, 
is one third of an inch. 

BARM, otherwife called Yeaft, the 
head or workings on the furface of ale 
or beer while the liquor is fermenting. 

Various unfuccefsful attempts harve 

been made to preferve it fweet and fit 

for ufe, which are commonly retailed 

as good ones in books of lioufewifery. 

Nor 

N 



BAR 



BAR 



Nor has a fubflitute for it been yet 
found, at leaft made public. As its 
fermentative principles may be ex- 
panded almoft ad infinitum, a much 
lefs portion will ferve than is com- 
monly ufed by bakers; but then it re- 
quires mo.re time and labour, which 
they are not very readily inclined to 
beftow ; though when yeaft is very 
fcarce, they would certainly find their 
account in it. It may at any time be 
freed from its bitternefs by vvafhir.git 
in fpring water. 

Barm on diftillation yields a confi- 
derable quantity of fpirit ; hence it is 
much ufed by diflillersfor that purpofe. 

BARN, a coveredplace or houfe lor 
laying up any fort of grain, hay, or 
ftraw. 

Every farm fhould befurnifhed with 
barns proportioned to the quantity of 
corn it produces, which will be a great 
advantage to the farmer. The barns 
fhould have a dry fituation, and be 
properly placed in the farm-yard, but 
not quite contiguous to the houfe for 
fear of fire. 

The beftbarn floor, both for threfh- 
ingand for keeping corn, is that which 
is drjefl, fmootheft, moft completely 
folid, and confequently freeft from 
cracks and holes, in which infefts and 
vermin may fhelter thcmfelves, and 
even breed. The ancients were re- 
markably careful in this refpecl, as 
we learn from Cato, Varro, and Colu- 
mella, the laft of which excellent huf. 
bandmen relates particularly the great 
pains they took, firft to dig up the 
ground to fome depth, in order to 
moiften it with frefh lees of oil, but 
not with any that had fait in them ; 
then to mix it thoroughly with chaff, 
and ram it down as clofe as poffible ; 
afterwards as it dried, to flop all the 
cracks and crevices that appeared ; to 
continue beating it down with great 
force, to render it quite level ; and 
laftJy, to ltrew it again with chaff, 
which they trod in, and then left it to 
be completely dried by the fun. All 
thefe writers agree, that the lees of 
oil, thus ufed, prevent the growth of 
weeds in thefe floors, and contribute 
to preferve the corn from being plun- 
dereo. by the mice and ants. Their 
barns were always feated high, and as- 
dry as poffible. 

A floor made in the above manner 
mvfi be greatly preferable to either 



ftone, or the earthen floors, too com- 
mon in many parts of England, and 
from which, fuch dampnefs has been 
communicated to the corn, as has ren- 
dered wheat, for example, fix-pence ■ 
a bufhel the worfe, either for keeping 
or exporting. 

Boarded threfhing-floors, made of 
found,thick,wellfeafoned planks of oak, 
are excellent for fervice, will laft a long 
time, and may be converted into good 
floorings for rooms, by planing them 
down, after they are become two une- 
ven for thepurpofeoriginallyintended. 

BARNACLES, horfe twitchers, or 
brakes, are a fort of inftrument ufed 
by farriers to put upon horfes" nofes, 
when they will not ftahd quietly to be 
fhod, blooded, or dreffed. 

There are feveral forts of barnacles, 
the common fort are rollers of wood, 
bound together, with the horfe's nofe 
between them. Another fort have 
handles, and are therefore termed pin- 
cers, to diftinguifh them from the fore- 
going. And a third fort are held to- 
gether at the top by a ring inclofing- 
buttons, having the top buttons held 
by an iron pin livening through them. 

BAROMETER, vulgarly -called a 
•weather -glafs, an inftrument for mea- 
furing the weight of the atmofpheie, 
and the variations therein, in order to 
determine the changes of the weather. 

There are feveral kinds invented, but 
the Torrocellian, (fo called from Tor- 
rocelli the inventor) which is that now 
in common ufe, is perhaps the befl of 
any hitherto contrived. The great 
fault in thefe common barometers is 
the fmallnefs of the tube, which fhould 
not be lefs than a quarter of an inch 
diameter. 

The following remarks may be of 
ufe to the Farmers, becaufe it is not fo 
much the height of the mercury on 
the tube that indicates the weather, as 
the motion of it up and down; it 
fhould therefore be obferved, 

ift, If the furfaceof the mercury in 
the tube is convex, that is, higher in 
the middle than at the fides, it is gene- 
rally a fign that the mercury is riiir.g. 

2d, If the furface is concave, or hol- 
low in the middle, it is finking. 

3d, If it is level, or nearly fo, the 
mercury is fiationary; but it will ge- 
nerally be a little convex, efpecially if 
the glafs be a fmall one. 

4th, If the glafs is fmall, fhake the 
tube j 



BAR 



BAR 



tube ; and if the air is growing heavier, 
the mercury will rife a fmall matter; 
but if it is growing lighter, it will fink 
a little. This proceeds from the mer- 
cury's adhering to the fides of the tube, 
which prevents the free motion, till it 
is difengaged by the fhock. Whenever 
therefore an obfervation is to be made 
With fuch a tube, it ought always to 
be firft fhaken, otherwife the mercury 
will not vary till the weather it ought 
to have indicated is prefent. 

It has been remarked by every ob- 
ferver of nature, that when the mer- 
cury is agitated violently in a barome- 
ter, the upper furface of the column 
is concave, when it finks, and convex, 
when it rifes. The fame thing hap- 
pens, tho' more imperceptibly, when 
the motion orofcillations of the column 
of mercury arelefs confiderable. 

The action of the air in the different 
ftatos of the atmofphere, i. e, its dif- 
ferent degrees of weight or gravity, 
make the mercury rife or fink in the 
barometer with more or lefs velocity. 

I obferved (fays Mr. Changeux) in a 
barometer of great mobility, firft, that 
the concavity and convexity, nay, the 
lefs confiderable concavity of the upper 
furface of the mercurial column, ap- 
peared vilibly before the rifing or fail- 
ing of the fame column, and hence I 
could forefee the rifing or falling of the 
column beforeit happened : adly, that 
the differences in the furface of the 
mercury were the morefenfible, in pro- 
portion as the fucceeding change of 
^veather was more confiderable and 
permanent. 

Thel'e preceding fgnt, being well af- 
certained, would render the barometer 
much more ufeful than it has hitherto 
been; and this engaged Mr. Changeux 
to communicate his obfervations to 
fome eminent naturalifts, who ima- 
gined that they had remarked, on feve- 
ral occafions, the fame phcenomenon. 
It requires, however, a nice penetra- 
tion in the vifual organ, and alfo a con- 
firmed habit of observing, to difcern, 
st firft fight, the exact meafure'of con- 
vexity in the upper furface of the mer- 
cury in molt of our barometers. A 
nurnberof experiments convinced Mr. 
Changeux that all barometers do not 
exhibit this phcenomenon in fuch a 
lti iking manner as to render it eafily 
perceivable ; and the reafon of this he 
thinjss deducibie from the different de- 



grees of purity In thequick-filver, and 
to the greater or Jeffer force of attrac- 
tion in the glafs tube. 

Our author points out two or three 
methods of difcerning the degrees of 
the iofs orcurvity which is formed on 
the furface of the mercury in the dif- 
ferent ftates of the atmofphere, and 
what they denote and portend. The 
firft thing to be remarked is the cur- 
vature of the mercury when it is in 
the molt entire ftate of reft : The ba- 
rometer then muft be fhaken : After 
this motion, if the furface of the mer- 
cury becomes much more convex in 
reafcending, this is a fure fign,that not 
having its wean convexity, it will con- 
tinue to defcend ; but it the furface of 
the mercury, is not become much 
more convex in re-afcending, this is a 
fign that it has acquired its mean, nay, 
even itsgreateft convexity, and it may 
be concluded from thence, that it will 
continue to rife, or that it will become 
flationary. 

There is another, and a ftill moreeafy 
method of making thefe obfervations, 
by conftrudting a barometer with a 
border of a coloured liquor. This 
may be done by inferting a fmall drop 
of liquor (fuch as fpirit of wine dyed 
red) above the column of mercury : 
this drop, by occupying a place be- 
tween the glafs and the mercury, will 
form, a kind of border; and this bor- 
der (as we fhall fee immediately) will 
mark the degreeof convexity from the 
top of the column, and render the pre- 
vious figns of the rifing and finking of 
the mercury in the barometer clearly 
perceptible.— -In effect, it is highly con- 
ceivable, that when the mercury is 
difpofed to rife, the coloured border 
will occupy the void fpace between it 
and the glafs : when, on the contrary, 
it is ready to fink, the coloured border 
will rife to a level with it, nay, will 
fometimes get above the furface of the 
mercury, becaufe the mercury having 
almoft entirely loft its convexity, will 
leave no void fpace between it and the 
glafs which contains it. 

But here arifes a queftion : whence 
the mercury derives the property of af- 
fuming a convex form when it af- 
cends, and a concave one when it de- 
fcends ? this property is generally fup- 
pofed to depend upon attraction, which 
indeed accounts for a part of the phce- 
nomenon, even the concave form which 
N ji the 



BAR 



BAR 



the mercury affumes, when itdefcends: 
and that in the following manner. — 
Wc may reprefent toourfelvesthe mer- 
cury »n the barometer, as attached, in 
all the points of its external furface, 
to the internal furfaceof the glafs tube, 
in which it is contained. The attrac- 
tive force of this internal- furface aCts 
upon the mercury from the top to the 
bottom of the column, and in the re- 
fervoir where the mercury communi- 
cates with the atmofphere. Let us 

then (fays our author) divide, ideally, 
or in imagination, the column of mer- 
cury into as many concentric cylin- 
drical layers as we think proper ; it is 
evident that the firlt furface or exter- 
nal layer will be more powerfully at- 
tracted, than tliofe which don't imme- 
diately touch the tides of the glaf>-tube. 
In effeO, the force of attraction is in 
an inverfe duplicate proportion of the 
diltanccs. When therefore the mer- 
cury (inks in the barometer, the firft 
furl ace or layer, which is con; iguous 
to the glafs, will not yeild to the cen- 
tral force which is imprinted on it, 
until the fecond layer, which is lefs 
powerfully attracted, has already yield- 
ed, nor the fecond, until the third, and 
fo on, till we come to the center of 
the column, which will be the center 
of the concavity. 

BARON and FEME, in our law, 
are hufbandand wife, and adjudged to 
be but one perfon ; fothat onecannot 
be witnefs for or againft the other, ex- 
cept in cafes of high treafon. 

BAROSCOPE. The fame with 
Bar meter. 

BARREL, a veffel too well known 
to require any description. 

Barrel, ameafureof liquids, con- 
taining thirty-one gallons and a half 
of wine j thirty-two gallons of ale; 
an ' thirty-fix gallons of beer. The 
barrel of vinegar, or beer, - r ether li- 
quoi, pieparing for vinegar (or rather 
alegar) ought to contain thirty-tour 
gal ns, according to the ftandard ale- 
quart. 

el a)(o denotes a ce tain weightj 

which differ, according t' the (everal 

commodities A barrel oi Eflex hotter 

weighs one hundred and fix poi d>, 

and of Suffolk buttertwo hundred and 

f.hy-fix pour, a bare: of herrings 

ms ■ meafur'j, 

'and ings ; t 

forty-two i - 



and of eels thirty gallons ; the barrel 
of foap muft weigh two hundred and 
fifty-fix pounds. 

Barrel-Churn. See Churn. 

BARREN CORN, a name given to 
a diftemper in corn, by M. Aimen, 
who firft obferved it. The ears of 

wheat orrye, the fpecies moll fubjecl 

to this dmemper, which are thus af- 
fected, are long, lean, and white; in 
fome the Itamina, or fmall threads in 
the middle of the flower, are dry, 
tranfparent, and hornsd ; the female 
organs are fmall, whiter, and lefs vel- 
vetty, than in healthy ears -. in others, 
the filaments are fwelled, the apices, 
or knobs on the tops of the ilamina, 
void of dull, or farina, and the ftig- 
mata badly unfolded. The ftigmata 
of all bloffoms of an eararefometimes 
dried and parched ; at other times the 
apices are fwelled. <&c {l&0t/t't.'&{2>i/t - 

M. Aimen thinks, with Theophraf- 
tus, that thefe accidents happen to fuch 
plant- as grow with molt vigour. 
Then, fays he, the fap, which is po- 
werfully conveyed into the leaves and 
other parts of the plant, prevents the 
organs of fructification from unfold- 
ing themfelves. »sj ■ '■ ■ • 

He alfc imagines that froft may 
caufe this accident, by particularly af- 
feCting the female organs : and he 
thinks, that a hot gleam of fun-fhine - 
coming after a hard fhower may have 
the fame effeft. If this be the cafe, the 
di:*emper in queftion may be ranked 
with the parched and fhrivelled corn, •.. 
or perhaps with the empty-eared corn. - 
Lafily, the fame naturalift obferves, 
that infects are fometimes, though very , 
rarely, the caufe of this dillemper. ifee v//?i 

Barren Earth, a name given by 
fome to the under ftatum of earth, or 
that which lies below the ftratum fre- 
quently turned up, and cultivated for 
the nourifhment of plants. 

This notion ot theunder-llratum of 
eauh being dead or barren, and will 
deltroy every vegetable nlanted in it, 
feems to be foun^.oon a miilake ; for 
every kind of earth, un! f it has any 
metallic particles .. ixed with it, whe- 
ther it be upon or under the furface, 
is capable ci giving ncurifhment to ■-. 
plants provided it be for fome time-.' Sa 
expofed c > the influence of the air, / ^, 
i-oitt .v. in order to enable it to dif- Z 
penfe ■ utritive qualities. An earth * 

feemingly barren, dug cut of a deep . « h 

pit. 



B A S 



B A S 



7 



pit, may, if fpread on the furface, and 
properly fiirred and cxpofed, be brought 
into a condition of bearing plants, and 
even much more fo than the earth, 
which having been long at the furface, 
is almoft exhausted, by the number cf 
vegetables it has fucceffively nourilht J. 
The notion of any earth being barren, 
merely becaufe it is placed at a diftance 
from ttie furface, is by the moft intel- 
ligent aaturalifts exploded : its parti- 
cles may perhaps want a proper ar- 
rangement, but it always porTefTes the 
vegetative quality. There is, how- 
ever, a very great difference in thefe 
earths ; fome will foon be fit for ve- 
getation, while others that are four 
mult be ex. ofed a confiderable time 
before they can be fufliciently melio- 
rated. 

Barren, or Wili> Pine-Apple. 
See Penguin. 

Barren Springe, a name given 
by the hufbandmen to fuch fprings 
vvhofe waters are injurious to land. 

Moft waters that flow from coal- 
mines, or through beds of fnlphureous 
minerals, have this pernicious quality, 
deltroying vegetables, inftead of nou- 
rifhing them. They have a harfh and 
brackiih tafte, are generally of a reddifh 
colour, and depTit a reddifh fedimen't 
in the channel through which they 
flow. They are, however, much bet- 
ter when they have run fome diftance, 
than at their fir ft breaking out on the 
furface of the earth. 

B a r r e n-Wor t , \Epimcd\um\ this 
- plant is fo termed from the fi iwers 
being totally eclipfedor covered by the 
leaves ; fo that without proper mfpec- 
tion, they appear to be wanting. If 
it be planted in a good border, the 
roots fhould be every year reduced fo 
as to keep tfaem within bounds, other- 
wife it will fpread its ioots and inter- 
fere with u.e neighbouring plants. 

BARS, the flelhy rowa that run a- 
crofs a horfe s mouth, reaching aimolt 
to the palate. They are diftinguifh- 
able in young horfes. 

BARTH, a warm place, orpallure, 
for calves or lambs. 

BARTON, or Barken, is a word 
lifer in the •' elt of England for the 
demefne lands oi ,\ manor ; fometim s 
for the mano! Itfeli , and in fome places 
it fignifies the arm, mothers the farm- 
yard. 

BASIL, [S'cyniuto] the name of a 
plant, of which there are feveral fpe- 



cies ; but that which bears the largeft 
leaves, efpecially if they are of a pur- 
plifh colour, are reputed thebeft. 

Some of the fpecies have feveral va- 
rieties, fo that it would be aimolt im- 
poffible to enumerate them, efpecially 
as the feeds of one plant will produce) 
many varieties. 

They are all annur.l and very ten- 
der plants, and mult therefore beraifed 
on a moderate hotbed from feeds fown 
in March When the plants are come up, 
theyfhouldbetranfplantedintoanother 
moderate hot bed. obferving to water 
and fhade them until the, have taken 
root j after which they fhould have 
plenty of air in mild weather, other- 
wife they will draw up very weak. In 
May they fhould be taken up with a 
ball of earth to their roots, and tranf- 
planted either into pots or borders, ob- 
ferving to fhade them until they have 
taken root ; after which, they will re- 
quire no further care, but to clear them 
from weeds, and refrefh them with 
water in dry weather. Though thefe 
plants are only propagated from feeds, 
yet if you have any particular fore 
which you are defwous to increafe, 
you may take off cuttings any time in 
May or June, and plant them on a 
moderate hot-bed, obferving to water 
and fhade them for about ten days 5 in 
which time they will take root, and in 
three weeks time be fit to remove ei- 
ther into pots or borders, with the 
feedling plants. In September thefc 
plants will perfect their feeds, when 
thofe forts which appear the moft di/'- 
tincl fhould have their feeds prcferv/e 
icparats, for fowing the following 
fpring. 

The leaves of bafil have a foft, 
fomewbat warm tafte; and whenrub- 
bed, a Itrong unpleafant fmell, which 
by moderate drying becomes more a- 
agreeable; hence, fome powder the 
dried leaves and make them intofnuf*", 
which they think has a better effeft 
than common fnuff They are faid to 
attenuate v ifeid phlegm, proaioteexpec- 
touit, >n and the uterine fecietionsj but 
h.i. ... t tor a long time been regarded 
by pr.i^ice; they are much ufed by 
fome cooks in theii foups and fauces. 

BASON, a refervoirfor holding wa- 
ter either for the ornament or ufe of a 
garden. 

Thefe refervoirs are made in divers 

forms, feme round, fome oblong or 

ova!, 



B A S 



B A S 



oval, others fquare, octangular, Sec . 
but their moft common form is circu- 
lar ; and if t!ie ground will permit, 
the larger they are the better; and 
•when they exceed in fize they are called 
lakes, pieces of water, canals, fifh- 
ponds, pools, Sec. 

In making them, care ought to be 
taken to avoid both extremes, and not 
to make them too big nor too little, 
that a water-work may not take up the 
belt part of a fmall piece of ground ; 
nor to make too little a bafon in a large 
ipot. This mult depend entirely on 
the judgment of the defigner of the 
garden. The following inftruclions 
with refpeft to the manual part, are 
given by Mr. Miller. 

In making bafons, fays he, particular 
regard muft he had to the foil of the 
jrarden ; for in loofe fandy land great 
cane will be neceffary in making the 
clay walls fo as to hold water ; but 
where the foil is loamy or inclining to 
clay there will be little difficulty in 
making bafons, nor need the clay-wall 
he fo thick. Where the ground is loofe 
the clay-walls at the bottom mould not 
be lefs than two feet thick, and thofe 
on the fides one and a half. The clay 
lhould be well wrought over and trod 
when it is taken from the pit, before 
it is ufed in building the wall. The 
true fign of good clay is, that it be 
clofe and firm, without any mixture of 
fand, and that it be tenacious and fat 
in handling. It fhould be well worked 
before the clay is brought to the place, 
lor if the clay be too long expofed to 
the fun and air, it will be lefs proper 
for ufe, efpecially if it belaid in fmall 
parcels. 

The belt time of the year for ma- 
king bafons is in autumn, when the 
fun is declining, and the weather tem- 
perate ; for in the fpring of the year, 
tha drying eaft and north-eaft winds 
generally blow ; fo that the clay-walls, 
if not very carefully covered as faft 
as they are made, often crack in many 
placv:, fo that: the water rinds a paf- 
fage through them. The fame incon- 
veniqney happens from the violent 
heat of the fun in Cummer, ; for when 
the clay dries very faii, it will be very 
difficult, if not impollible, to prevent 
its cracking. 

When the ground where the bafon 
is to be made, is dugout level, the clay 
inn ft be brought in, and laid very care- 



fully In the bottom, obferving that n<v 
dirt or fmall ftones be mixed with it ; 
fome water mu ft alfo, from time to time, 
be thrown on the clay, while the men are 
treadingit clofely with theirnakc-dfeet ; 
a fter which it muft be very well ramm'd. 
When the bottom is finifhed with clay, 
a layer of coarfe gravel about four or 
five inches thick lhould be laid over it, 
.which will greatly tend to fecure the 
clay bottom, and render the water 
clear. But where the bafon is large, 
fo that the clay bottom is long in ma- 
king, it fhould be covered with moift 
litter, to prevent its drying, which 
inny be taken off when the whole is 
finifhed to lay on the gravel ; but if 
part of the fide walls be finifhed be- 
fore this is done, it will be the better; 
becaufe there may then be fome watei 
let into the bafon, as foon as the gra- 
vel is laid, which will prevent the clay 
horn cracking. After this the walls 
round the fides of the bafon muft be 
carried up with the fame care as above 
directed lor the bottom, obferving alfo 
to cover the clay with litter well moift- 
ened while the work is carrying on, 
and afterwards to lay it with coarfe 
gravel; and as the walls are finifhed 
round, the water may be let in to fecure 
the walls from drying or cracking. 

When the whole is finifhed, a ttra- 
tum of gravel four or five inches thick, 
fhould be laid upon the clay, then a 
thin ftratum of good earth, and the 
whole covered with turf. The fand 
will prevent the giafs from rooting 
into the clay, and aifo keep out the 
froft. The turf on the' fide of the 
bafon fhould be laid as far down as the 
water is apt to fall, that no part of 
the clay may be wholly expofed to the 
weather. 

No trees or fhrubs fhould be fuffered 
to grow near a bafon, for their roots 
will penetrate through the clay walls, 
and occafion fifTures, through which 
the water will find an eafy paffag?. 

In fome countries where clay can- 
not be ealily procured, the walls of 
thefe bafons are very frequently made 
with chalk, beaten into a foft powdc^, 
and made into a fort of mortar, with 
which the walls aremade, by ramming 
and working it very hard and firm. 
The bafons hold water very well, if 
never fuffered to be dry any length of 
time; for whenever that happens the 
fun and winds, by drying the chalk, 
caufe 



B A S 



B A S 



caufe it to crack, and thcfe cracks 
commonly extend through tlie thick- 
nefs of the walls, fo as to let out the 
water. 

Others build the walls of their ba- 
fqni with bricks laid in terrafs, which 
iiagood method forfuch places where 
the.ground is loofeand fandy ; becaufe 
the walls, when well built, will fup- 
port the loofe earth from falling, or 
fettling away from the fides; but where 
terrafs is med, the walls fhculd not 
be long dry and expofed ; for the heat 
is apt to crack the terrafs. 

Some make a cement of powdered 
tile and lime, .two parts of the former 
to one of the latter, being very care- 
ful in the mixing it not to add too 
much water, but to labour it well in 
beating, which is a principal thir:^ to 
be obfetved. With this cement they 
cover the furface of the walls of their 
bafons about two inches thick, laying 
on the plaiffer, and being cateful that 
no fticks, (traws, or Itones, are mixed 
with it : this plaiflering i> generally 
perfoimed in dry weather, and as focn 
as it is finifhed, it is rubbed over with 
linfeed oil, or bullock's blood, and the 
water let into the bafon as fcon as pof- 
fiblc. This cement has the property 
of hardening under water, fo as to be 
equal to ftone, and will continue as 
long found. 

But whatever materials are made 
ufe of in building the walls, great care 
muft betaken to rentier them fo Hi ong 
as to enable them to refill the weight 
of the water ; where, therefore, the 
ground about the bafon is not very fo- 
)id, the walls fhould be thicker, and 
fepported on the back fide by buttrefTes 
of the fame materials, fixed at proper 
diftances : or, if the walls are made 
of clay, planks fupported by llrong 
timbers, at proper riiliances, fliould be 
placed fo as to fuftain them ^ other- 
wife there will be great danger of their 
being broken down, efpecially where 
the bafons are large enough for the 
waves driven by the wind to dafh for- 
cibly againft the banks. 

BASSE, among gardeners, a foft 
kind of fedge or rufli ufed in binding 
plants, &c. 

Basse, a collar for cart - horfes, 
made of ftraw, "fedges, rufhes, &c. 

BASTARD, a term frequently ap- 
plied by botanifts to plants that le- 
•■ j"- fsmble, but yet are diliinguifhed from 

'■• i - -1 



the true fpecies ; hence we have 

Bastaud, or F.\ls£ Acacia 
See Acacia, 

Bastako Acorns. See Flovvex 
be Luce. 

Bastard Alaturnus, \P7n£eti\ 
of which there are three fpecies, all 
natives of the Cape of Good Hope, 

As thcfe plants do not produce feeds 
in England, fo they are propasraced 
by cuttings, which, if propeily ma- 
nagtrf, will take root freely. There 
are two feafons for planting thefe 
cuttings, the fir ft is the latter terid ot" 
March, before the plants begin tofhoor; 
if thefe are planted in pots, and plun- 
ged into a very moderate hot-bed, co- 
vering them clofe with bell or hand- 
glaffes, observing to fhade them from 
the fun in the middle of the day, and 
to refifclri them gently with water, they 
will put out roots in two months $ 
then they fhould be inured to the open 
air, and alter they have obtained 
fttength, they fhculd be taken out of 
thefe pots, and each planted in afepa- 
rate ("mall por, filled with foft loamy 
earth, and placed in a Ihacly fituation, 
until they have taken new root, when 
they may be removed to a fheltered fi- 
xation, where they may remain till - 
autumn. 

The other feafon for planting of- 
thcl'e cuttings, is about the beginning 
o'f Augufb . At this time they may be 
planted in pots, which may he either 
plunged into an old hot-bed, or the full 
ground, covering them clofe with bell 
01 hahd'-glaffes as before, and treating 
them in the fame way ; thefe will put' 
out roots in about two months, but 
it will then be too late in the feafon to 
transplant them, fo they mult remain," 
in the fame pots till fpring. 

Thefe plants are generally too ten-- 
dtv to thrive in the open air in Eng- 
land, fo they mutt be kept in pots, and" 
hcufed in winter; for ah ho' the firfl? 
fort will live through the winter in a 
warm fheltered fituation, when f!>3 
ieafons prove favourable, yet wheji (e- 
vere fioits happen, they are always de"- 
ftroyed: but they require no arciifcia|, 
heat to prefeive them, if they arc iJ.d- 
teied under a hot-bed frame in v, ir.ter, 
when they are young, and after they 
are grown large, kept in agreen-houfe 
where they may enjoy the free air in 
mild weather, and are treated in the 
fame w.i;' a. eiiier hardy exotic plant* 

UOiil 



B A S 



B A S 



from the fame.country; in the fummer 
they muft be placed abroad in a fhel- 
tered firuation ; with which manage- 
ment the plants will thrive and conti- 
nue feveral years, and as they flower 
in the winter, they make a good ap- 
pearance in the green-houfe during 
thatfeafon. 

Bastard Alkanet, called alfo 
Baftard or Field Grom'dl, or Salfa>n, 
[Lytkvfpermum] a weed common among 
winter corn, efpecially _rye A It may 
be eifily known by its red roots, which 
yield a red tincture, and are ufed by 
the young girls in Sweden to colour 
their cheeks. From the root ufually 
rifes a tingle Aem about a foot high, 
rough, and branching out at the top. 
The flowers are fmoll and white, fur- 
rounded with five long, narrow, hairy 
leaves, forming what the botanilts call 
thsempalement of the flower cup, and 
fucceed by four white rough feeds. 

Bastard American Sanicle, 
[M'ueUj] There are two fpecies, one 
from North-America, and the other 
from the northern parts of Afia. They 
are propagated by parting their roots 
in Autumn, which fhould be planted 
in a fhady fituation, and a foft loamy 
foil. 

Bastard Asarum. See Baftard 
Asa rum. 

Bastard Cidar, [ Thcobroma\ 
This rows naturally in moft of their 
Jfiandsin the Weft-indies, where it rifes 
to the heightof 40 or 50 feet, having a 
trunk as large as a middk-fized man's 
body, covered with a daik brown fur- 
rowed bark, fending out many branches 
tnward the top, which fpread wide on 
every hand, garnifhed with oblong 
fceart-fhaped leaves, placed alternate, 
of a bright green on the upper fide, 
and pale on their under, favved on their 
edges, with a ftrong midrib, and feve- 
ral tranfverfe veins, Handing upon 
fliort foot-ftalks. The flowers come 
out in bunches from the wings of the 
leaves ; they are fmall, of a yellow co- 
lour, having five concave petals, which 
fpread open circularly, and a great 
number of (lamina, which at their bafe 
are joined in five bodies, terminated by 
round ifh fumrnits. In the center is 
fituated a roundifh germen, fupport- 
ing a flenc.'er ftyle the length of the 
(lamina, crowned by a fingle ftigma. 
The germen afterward turns to a 
tour.difh warted fruit, having five 



obtufe angles, and five cells, which 
contain feveral irregular feeds. 

The wood of this tree is white-and 
ductile, fo is frequently cut into ftaves 
for calks. The fruit and leaves are 
good fodder for cattle, therefore when 
the planters clear the land from wood, 
they leave the trees of this fort land- 
ing for the feed, which is of great ufe 
in dry feafons,when the common fod- 
der is fcarce. 

There are fome plants of this fort in 
England prcferved in the gardens of cu- 
rious perf:ns; it is propagated by 
feeds, which mull be procured asfrefh, 
as poffihle, from the countries where 
the plants grow naturally. Thefefhould 
be fown upon a good hot-bed in the 
fpring; and when the plants are fit to 
remove, they fhould be each planted 
in a feparate fmall pot, and plunged 
into a hot bed of tanner's bark, obfer- 
ving to (hade them from the fun till 
they have taken new root; then they 
fhould be treated in the fame way as 
the coffee-tree, keeping them always 
in the tan-bed in the ftove. 

Bastard Dittany, \Marrub:um~\ 
There are four fpecies of this plint; 
two of them are natives of the iflands 
in the Archipelago, and the others grow 
naturally in Spain, and are called Spa- 
nifh Baftard Dittany. 

The latter are only preferved in bo- 
tanic gardens ; the two former are pro- 
pagated by cuttings, (for they rarely 
produce feeds in England) which if 
planted in a fhady border about the 
middle of April will take root very 
freely. Thefe plants will be luxuriant 
in good ground, and liable to be hurt 
by fevere frofts ; but, in poor foils they 
will be more hardy. 

Bastard, or White Dittany, 
[Fraxwelh] this root grows wild in the 
mountainous parts of France, Italy, 
and Germany ; from whence the cor- 
tical part of the root, dried and rolled 
up in quills, is fometimes brought to 
us. This is of a white colour, a weak, 
not veryagreea le finell ; and a dura- 
ble bitter, lightly pungent tafte. It is 
recommended as an alexipharmac ; 
but not regarded by common practice, 
or often kept in the fhops. 

Bastard Fever t iv: ,\_Partker.ium\ 
There are two fpecies of this plant. 
One fort grows wild, in great plenty in 
Jamaica, and in fome other of the 
Englifhfettlementsin the Weft-Indies, 
wheie 



B A S 



B A S 



where it is called wild wormwood, 
and is ufed by the inhabitants as a vul- 
nerary herb. 

The fecond fort grows plentifully in 
feveral parts of the Spanifh Welt-In- 
dies, from whence the feeds have been 
brought to Europe. 

The firft is an annual plant, which 
may be propagated by fowing feeds on 
a hot-bed early inthefpring; and when 
the plants are come up, they mould be 
tranfplanted on another hot-bed, at a- 
bout five or fix inches diftance, When 
the plants have grown fo as to meet 
each other, they mould becarefully ta- 
ken up, preferving a ball of earth to 
their roots, and each planted into a fe- 
parate pot, filled with light rich earth; 
and if they are plunged into a mode- 
rate hot-bed, it will greatly facilitate 
their taking frefh root; but where this 
conveniency is wanting, the plants 
fhould be fhaded from the fun until 
they have taken new root; after which 
time they may be expofed, with other 
hardy annual plants, in a warm fitua- 
tion, where they will flower in July, 
and their feeds will ripen in Auguft and 
September, 

The fecond fort is a perennial plant, 
which dies to the ground every au- 
tumn, and fhoots up again the follow- 
ing fpring. The feeds of this fort were 
fent over a few years fince from South 
Carolina, where the plants grow wild. 
This may be propagated by parting of 
the roots in autumn, and may be plan- 
ted in the fullground, where it will 
abide the cold of our ordinary win- 
ters very well. This fort flowers in 
July, but feldom produces good feeds 
in England. 

Thefe plants make no great appear- 
ance, fo are feldom cultivated but for 
the fake of variety. 

Bastard Flower Fence, [Ade- 
nanthera] this is a native of India, from 
whence the feeds have been brought 
to England. The Indians perforate 
thefe feeds, and firing them for the 
young women, who wear them about 
their necks. It requires the fame treat- 
ment as the tender forts of Acacia. 
See Acacia. 

Bastard Hare's Ear, [Simpta 
Noba; Phyllis'] grows naturally in the 
Canary iflands, and rifes with a foft 
fhrubby ftalk about two or three feet 
high, which is feldom thicker than a 
man's finger, of an herbaceous colour 
and full of joints. 



It is propagated by feeds, which 
*null be fown on a bed of frefll light 
earth the beginning of April ; the 
plants will come up by the beginning 
of May ; when they are fit to tranf- 
plant, they fhould be put into feparate 
pots, and placed in a fhady fituation 
until they have taken root ; after which 
time they fhould be placed in a fhel- 
tered fituation, where they may have 
the morning fun, and in fummer will 
require to be frequently watered. In 
winter they muft be flickered from the 
froft, but require to have as much free 
air as poffiblein mild weather; the fe- 
cond year the plants will flower, fo if 
in fpring fome of the plants arefliaken 
out of the pots, and put into the full 
ground, they ^will perfect their feeds 
much better than thofe which remain 
in the pots. 

As thefe plants feldom continue in 
health above four or five years, it will 
be proper to raife a fupply of young 
plants tofucceed them. 

Bastard Hellebore, [Serap\as\ 
of which there are many fpecies which 
grow naturally in Great-Britain and 
Ii eland; there are alfo a great number 
of them which grow naturally in the 
Weft-Indies. 

Thefe plants are rarely kept in gar- 
dens, being difficult to propagate, fo 
there are few who have attempted 
them. They may be taken up from 
the places where they naturally grow, 
when their leaves begin to decay, and 
planted in a fhady moift place, where 
they will thrive and flower. 

Bastard Hemp, [Datifca] there 
are two fpecies, one with a fmooth, and 
the other a rough ftalk. 

The firft grows naturally in Crete, 
and the other in North America. They 
maybe propagated by parting the roots 
(but not too fmall) in autumn, when 
the ftalks decay, which may be planted 
in any open beds, that are not under 
the drip of trees, and will require no 
other culture but to keep them clean 
from weeds; obferving to let the lat- 
ter fort have a more fhady fituation and 
a moifter foil. 

Bastard Jasmine, [Ceftrum] there 
are fix fpecies of this plant, i. Ceftrum 
Nodurnum; 2. Ceftrum Diurnum; 3. 
Ceftrum Nervofum; 4. Ceftrum Spica- 
turn; 5. Ceftrum Confeftum; 6. Cef- 
trum Veneratum. 

The firft was many years paft raifed 

at Badmington in Glocefterfhire, and 

© fent 



B A S 



A S 



fent from thence to other gardens, and 
likewife to Holland, where it paffes 
under the title of the Badmington Jaf- 
mine to this day. It grows naturally 
in the ifland of Cuba, from whence 
the feeds were fent by the title of Duma 
de Noche, Lady of the Night, which ap- 
pellation it is fuppofed was given it 
from the flowers (which are of a ftrong 
herbaceous colour) emitting a ftrong 
odour after funfet. 

The feeds of the fecond fort were 
received from the Havannah by the ti- 
tle of Dama de Dio, Lady of the Day ; 
which name was probably given from 
the flowers (which are very white) 
fmelling fo fweet in the day-time. 

The third and fourth camefrom Car- 
thagena, and the fixth from Jamaica. 

As they all grow naturally in very 
hot countries, they cannot be procured 
in England without artificial heat, 
therefore require to be placed in a warm 
ftove, efpecially in the winter. The 
two firft are hardier than the others; 
thefe I have kept feveral years in a dry 
ftove, with a moderate fhare of heat 
in winter, and in the middle of fum- 
mer have fet them in the open air, in 
a v/arm fituation. With this manage- 
ment I have found them thrive, and 
produceflowersmuchbetti.rthan when 
they have been placed in a greaterheat; 
but I have often endeavoured to keep 
thefe plants through the winter in a 
green-houfe, or a glafs-cafe, without 
fire, but could never fucceed, for by 
the end of January they commonly de- 
cay. 

Thefe plants may be propagated ei- 
ther by feeds, or cuttings. Thofe which 
come from feeds are always the moft 
vigoious, and itraiteft plants ; but as 
they do not produce feeds in England, 
fo the ether method is generally prae- 
tifed, becaufe their feeds are rarely 
brought hither. 

The beft time to plant thefe cuttings 
is about the end of June, by which 
time the (hoots will have had time to 
recover their ftrength, after their con- 
finement during the winter feafon. 
The moots which come out from the 
lower part of the ftalks, mould always 
be chofen for this purpofe. Thefe 
fhould be cut about four inches long, 
and fiveorfix of them may be planted 
in one halfpenny pot, for the cuttings 
of mod forts of exotic plants will fuc- 
ceed better when they are planted in 



thefe fmall pots than they do in larger, 
as I have many years experienced. 
When the cuttings are planted theearth 
mould be prefTed pretty clofe to them, 
and then gently watered ; after which 
the pots mult be plunged into a mo- 
derate hot-bed of tanners bark, and 
/haded from the fun. With this ma- 
nagement the cuttings will put out 
roots in a month or fix weeks, when 
they fhould be gradually expofed to the 
fun; and when they begin to put out 
fhoots, they mull have a greater fhare 
of freih air admitted to them, to prevent 
their drawing up weak. When they 
have made gooa roots, they fhould be 
carefully fhaken-ovt of the pets, and 
each put into a feparate fma'.l pot ; 
then give them fonie water, to fettle 
the earth to their roots, and plunge 
them againinto the tan-bed, obferving, 
if any of their leaves hang down, to 
made them from the fun in the middle 
of the day, until they have taken frefh 
root j after which they fhould have a 
large fhare of air in warm weather, to 
ftrengthen them before winter. 

In the autumn the plants muft be 
removed into the bark-Hove, and plun- 
ged into the tan-bed, where they muft 
be treated in the fame manner as other 
tender exotic plants; for although the 
two firft forts may be treated otherwife 
when they have obtained ftrength, yet 
in the firil winter they may be mana- 
ged in the fame way as the others. 
There muft be great care in watering 
of thefe plants in winter, for they are all 
(except the fecond fort) very impatient 
of moifture; fo that they are foon kil- 
led by being over watered. 

If the feeds of thefe are procured 
from the countries where they grow 
naturally, they fhould be fowed in fmall 
pets, and plunged into a moderate hot- 
bed of tanners bark, giving them now 
and then a little water. Sometimes 
the feeds will come up the fame year, 
but they very often lie in the ground 
till the fpring following: fo that if the 
plants do not appear in fix or feven 
weeks after the feeds are fown, they 
will not come up that feafon ; in which 
cafe the pots may be plunged in the 
tan- bed in the ftove between the other 
plants, where they will be fhaded from 
the fun, and but little water given them; 
in tiiis fituntion they may remain till 
the following fpring, when they fhould 
be removed, and piunged into a frefh 
hot-bed, 



B A S 



B A 8 



flOtvbed, which will bring up the plants 
in a fhort time, provided the feeds were 
gocd. 

Bastard Indigo, [Amirpha] This 
fhrub grows naturally in Carolina, 
where formerly the inhabitants made 
a coarfe fort of indigo from the young 
flioots, which occafioned their giving 
it the title of Baftard indigo. 

It rifes with many irregular ftems 
to the height c: twelve or fourteen 
feet, with very long winged leaves in 
fhape like thofe of the common Aca- 
cia. At the extremity of the fame 
year's flioots the flowers are produced 
in long (lender fpikes, which are very 
fmail and of a deep purpie colour. Af- 
ter the flowers are pa ft thegermen turns 
to a fhort pod, having two kidney-fha- 
ped feeds, but thefe do not ripen in 
England. 

This fhrub is become very common 
In all the gardens and nurferies near 
London, where it is propagated as a 
flowering fhrub for the ornament of the 
flirubbery. It is generally propagated 
by laying down of the young branches, 
which in one year will make good 
roots, and may then be taken off and 
planted either in the nurfery, or in the 
places where they are deligned to re- 
main. The plants mult have a fhel- 
tered fituation, otherwife their branches 
will be broken by the winds. As thefe 
flioots are large and foft, their upper 
parts are frequently killed by froft in 
winter; but they put out fhoots again 
in plenty below the dead part, thefpring 
following. 

Bastard or Fulfe Ipecacoanha, 
[Afflepiat CarajJitvUa] this plant rifes 
with upright liems, fix or feven feet 
high, and has a white flower of a fiar 
figure. 

It is tender, and fa muft be preferved 
constantly in theftove, and fhould have 
very little wet,efpecially in the winter. 

The root which is of a poifonous 
nature was brought from America for 
the true ipecacoanha, and fometimes 
unhappily adminiitered as fuch. The 
two roots however may eafily bediftin- 
guifhed, that of the baftard kind being 
compofed of a great number of fmall 
fibres; whereas the true plant has 
jointed fiefhy roots which run deep in- 
to the ground. 

Bastard Locust, or Locufl Tree, 
[Rymer.eea] this is a very large fpread- 
ing tree in th» Weft-Indies, where \t 



grows in great plenty. The wood of 
this tree is efteemed a good timber, and 
yields the fine clear refin which is cal- 
led Gum Anime in the fhops. See 
Anime, 

It is eafily raifed from the feeds if 
they are frefh, which fhould be fown 
in pots, and plunged into a hot-bed of 
tanners bark : there fhould be but one 
feed put into each pot, or if there is 
more, when the plants appear, they 
fhould be all drawn out but one fcon 
after they come up, before their roots 
entangle, when it will be hazardous 
doing it ; for if great care is not taken, 
.us intended to be left may be 
drawn out with the other. As the 
roots of this plant are but [lender, fo 
they are very difficult to tranfplant j 
for unlefs a ball of earth is preferved 
to them, they feldom furvive their re- 
moval, therefore they muft be feldom 
tranfplanted from one pot to another. 
The plants mult conltantly remain in 
the tan-bed in the ftove, and fhould be 
treated in the fame way with other ten- 
der plants of the fame country, giving 
but little water to them, efpecially in 
the winter. When thefe plants firft ap- 
pear, they make confiderable progrefs 
for two or three months, after which 
time they are atafland perhaps a whole 
year without (hooting, being in their 
growth- very like the Anacardium, or 
Cafhew Nut, fo is very difficult to pre- 
ferve long in this country. 

Bastard Lote. See Indian 
Date Plum. 

Bastard Lychnis, \hychn\dea\ 
Phhx] of which we have feven fpecies, 
all from North America. 

They are hardy plants, and fo will 
thrive in the open air in England. They 
delight in a moift rich foil not too ftiff , 
in which they will grow tall, and pro- 
duce much larger bunches of flow«rs 
than in dry ground; for when the foil 
is poor and dry, they frequently die in 
fummer, unlefs they are duly watered. 

They are generally propagated by 
parting their roots, becaufe they d» 
not often produce feeds in England. 
The belt time for this is in autumn, 
when their italks begin todecay. Thefe 
roots fhould not be divided into fmall 
heads, if they are expected to flower 
well the following fummer; nor fhould 
they be parted oftener than every other 
year, becaufe when they are often re- 
moved & parted, it will greatly weaken 
0« 



B A S 



B A S 



roots, fo that they will fend out but 
few ftalks, and thofe will be fo weak as 
not to rife their ufual height ; the bun- 
ches of flowers will alfo be muchfmaller. 

Some of the forts propagate but 
flowly by parting their roots, therefore 
the beft way is by cuttings. The moft 
proper time to plant the cuttings is a- 
bout the latter of April, or the begin- 
ning of May, when the fhoots from the 
roots areabout four inches high ; thefe 
fhould be cut off clofe to the ground, 
and their tops fhould be fhortened ; 
then they muft be planted on a border 
of light loamy earth, and fhacfcd from 
the fun until they have taken root ; 
or if they are planted clofe together, 
and covered with bell or hand-glaffes, 
fhading them every day from the fun, 
they will put out roots in five or fix 
weeks; but when they begin to flioot, 
the glaffes fhould be gradually raifed to 
admit the free air to them. As foon 
as they are well rooted, theglaffes fhould 
be taken off, and the plants inured to 
the open air; then they fhould be foon 
after removed into a bed of good foil, 
planting them about fix inches diftance 
every way, obferving to fhade them 
from the fun, and water them duly till 
they have taken new root; after which, 
if they are kept clean from weeds, they 
will require no other care till autumn, 
when they fhould be tranfplanted into 
the borders of the flower-garden where 
they are defigned to remain. 

Bastard Mallow, \_Malope] the 
whole plant has greatly the appearance 
of the Mallow, but differs from it in 
having the cells collected into a button, 
fomewhat like a blackberry ; the bran- 
ches fpread, &lie flat upon theground, 
extending themfelves a foot or more 
each way. The flowers are produced 
fingly upon long foot-ftalks, from the 
fetting of the leaves, which are in 
fhape and colour like thofe of the Mal- 
low. 

This is propagated by feeds, which 
Should be fown upon a warm border in 
Anguft, where the plants will come up 
before winter, which fhould be planted 
in fmall pots, and fheltered under a 
hot-bed frame, for they are too tender 
to live in the open air in winter; but in 
fummer they fhould be placed witho- 
ther hardy foreign plants in a fheltered 
fituation, wherein warm feafons they 
will produce feeds. 

Bastard Medic, Luctrjie, or Snail 



Trefoil, [Medieago] there are many fpe« 
ciesofthis plant which grow naturally 
in the warm parts of Europe, and are 
preferved in botanic gardens for the 
fake of variety; a few of them are 
cultivated in other gardens, but not fo 
much as formerly; the pod containing 
many kidney fhaped feeds is twilled 
in the form of a fnail ; hence its name 
Snail-trefoil. 

Bastard Milk-Vetch, \Phacd\ 
We have two fpecies, one with a hairy 
ftalk, and the other with a fmooth one. 

The firfl fort is a native of Portugal 
and Spain. This has been long pre- 
ferved in fome curious gardens in En- 
gland, but the other is more rare at 
prefent. 

The roots of the firft fort, which 
grows naturally in Portugal, will abide 
many years, and run very deep into the 
ground ; but the branches decay every 
autumn, and the roots produce frefh 
ftalks every fpring, which will rifenear 
four feet high, and grow ligneous. 
The flowers are produced in fhort 
fpikes from the wings of the leaves ; 
but unlc-fs thefeafon proves very warm, 
they rarely flower in England, for which 
reafon the plants are not much efteemed. 

The fecond fort, which is a native of 
Siberia, hath fmooth ftalks, which do 
not rife fo high as the former; th« 
flowers are fmaller, the pods are much 
fhorter, and hang downwards. 

Boih thefe forts are propagated by 
feeds, which fhould be fown in the place 
where the plants are to remain ; for as 
they fhoot their roots very deep into 
the earth, fo it is very difficult to tranf- 
plant them with any fafety, efpecially 
after they have remained any confides, 
able time in the feed-bed. The plants 
of the firft fort fhould be left about 
fix feet afunder, that there may be room 
to dig the ground between them every 
fpring, which is all the culture they re- 
quire, except the keeping them clean 
from weeds. 

Bastard Must a r d, \Cleome~\ there 
are eight fpecies of this plant, but being 
moftly natives of warm countries they 
will not thrive in England without ar- 
tificial heat. They fhould therefore 
be raifed upon a good hot-bed in the 
fpring, and when they are fit to be ta- 
ken up they fhould be planted in fepa- 
rate pots, and plunged into a frefli hot- 
bed, and fhaded till they have taken 
root, As foon as they are fit they may 

be 



B A S 

fce removed into an airy glafscafe,where 
they will flower and ripen their feeds. 

Bastard Mithr ida te Mus- 
tard, [Thlafpi] This grows naturally 
among the corn in divers parts of En- 
gland, and alio on the fide of dry banks; 
it is a biennial plant, which perifhes 
loon after it has ripened its feeds. 

The feeds (which are fubftituted for 
thofe of Trtack Mujlm-d'm the celebra- 
ted medicine called Venice Treacle) 
may be fown thin upon beds of light 
ground, in the fame way, and managed 
like onions, carrots, &c. 

Bast ak d Tower Mustard, [A- 
ral\\\ of which there are feveral fpe- 
cies, all hardy plants, but they make 
no great fhew, \o are not much culti- 
vated but for the fake of variety. Their 
cultivation is extremely eafy by lowing 
the feed upon a good border ; and as 
foon as the plants are fit, they may be 
removed to where they are to remain. 

BastarpOrpine \_Andrathne\ this 
is a low trailing plant, found wild in 
Italy and the Archipelago 5 but having 
no great beauty is feldorn cultivated 
except in botanic gardens. 

If the feeds are fown in common 
earth inauiumn.the plants will appear 
in the following fpring, and produce 
flowers and feeds. It fhould be plan- 
ted in pots and fheltered from the froft 
in winter, and fhould have a light dry 
foil and a warm fituaticn ; but it fel- 
dorn continues longer than two or three 
years. 

Ba s t a n » Par s 1 1- v [Cattcalis] there 
are feveral fpecies of this plant prefer- 
red in botanic gardens ; but being of 
little ufe or beauty, it will not be ne- 
cefiary to fay any thing farther than 
that the beft time to low the feed is in 
autumn, foon after it is ripe. 

Bastard Stone Parsley, \S't- 
fenj We have fourfpecies of this plant, 
to propagate which, nothing farther is 
nece/Tary than to fow their feeds foon 
after they 3re ripe in a mcittlhudy fpot 
of ground. 

Bafiard fione parfley, the feeds of 
which arethecommon Amomum oi'the 
ihops, grows on the fide of ditches and 
rr.oift fh3rly hanks in many parts of En- 
gland ; it is a biennial plant, which 
perifhes foon after the feeds are ripe. 
The feeds have a warm aromatic tafie, 
botconfiderably different from the true 
Amomum, and much weaker. They 
Jiavebeen recommended as a carmina- 



B A S 

tive, aperient, diuretic, and emmena- 
gogue; but they are at prefent little 
regarded in practice. It is remarka- 
ble that thetinclure drawn from them 
with pure fpiritis of a beautiful green 
colour. 

Bastard Rhamnus. See Sea 
Buckthorn. 

Bastard Rocxet, [Rofeda] There 
are eight fpecies of the rofeda ; fix of 
which having little ufe or beauty are 
feldom cultivated but for variety, and 
requiring no other cultivation than to 
fow the feeds in autumn, and to keep 
the plants clean from weeds in the 
fpring, it is unneceffary to fay any thing 
more about them. 

That which is commonly called 
Sweet Rofeda, or Mignonette d'Egypt, 
fhould have its feeds fown on a mode- 
rate hot-bed in March, from which 
the plants fhould be removed to ano- 
ther moderate hot-bed to bring them 
forward, and fhould have a large fhare 
of air in warm weather, or they -will 
draw up weak; about the latter end of 
May they may be planted in pots or 
warm borders. It fhould be obferved 
that when the feed veffels begin to fvvell, 
the plants are frequently infefted with 
green caterpillers, which, if not de- 
ftroyed, will eat off all the (ee<\ veffels. 

If the feeds are fown on a bed of 
light earth in April, the plant •will be 
larger (if they remain without being 
tranfplanted) than thofe 1. -;{"ed on the 
hot- bed, but they will not flower fo 
early. The plants maybe preferved 
through the winter in a green-hotife, 
where they will continue flowering 
molt part ofthe year; but they are not 
fo vigorous the fecond year as they arc 
the firft. 

The other fort of baftard rodcet is 
called Weld or Dyer's Weed. Sec 
Weld. 

Bastard Saffron. See Sav- 
flower. 

Bastard, or Wild Sena. See 
Cassia. 

Bastard, or False Sensitive 
Plant, [Aefchynomene\ There are three 
fpecies, which are all natives of warm 
countries. 

They are rarely kept but in botanic 
gardens, having little ufe or beauty, 
an«J belides they require a good Hove to 
preferve them in England. 

BASUS. JV bafvm tclnetum caperc, 
%9 take toll by ftrifce, not by heap. 

BAT, 



BAT 



BAT 



BAT, in natural hirtory, a kind of 
■amphibious animal, partaking partly of 
the moufe and partly of the bird kind ; 
it is bred in molt of the Allan and Eu- 
ropean regions, and frequent in Eng- 
land in fumnier time, feeding upon 
j^n-ats, flies, flefh, candles, Sec. It is 
naked of feathers, its wings whole or 
webbed together, after the manner of 
■web-footed water-fowl. It flies abroad 
chiefly in the morning and evening, 
their vifory fpirits being then molt thin 
and lucid; their voice is loud and fhtiil, 
they breed in holes, have two young 
ones at a time, and have two teats. 

EATABLE GR.OUND, this was 
land lying between England and Scot- 
land, heretofore in quefiion, when dif- 
tin<9: kingdoms, to which it belonged. 
It is as much as if you fhould i*y liti- 
gious ground. 

BATCHELOR's BUTTONS. See 
Bachelors Buttons. 

BATE, a term ufed in falconry, 
when a hawk fluttereth with her wings, 
from pearch to flft, as it were ftiiving 
to get away. 

BAT-FOWLING, is a way to take 
fcirds in the night time that rooft on 
perches, or in trees, or hedge-rows, and 
is performed thus : Being arrived at 
the place where the fpcurt is expected, 
fomeflrawor torches are to be lighted, 
and the bitfhes or hedges beaten, and 
the birds will presently fly towards the 
flames, where they may be taken with 
nets or the ends of poles, or beat down 
with buflies made with boughs at the 
end of poles, or by carrying large 
boughs lined with bird-lime to entan- 
gle them. The ufual time for putting 
this fpert in practice is when the 
night is extreme dark, and with great 
filence Jill the lights are burning, at 
■which they are amazed, and being eve- 
ry way elfe very dark, fly to the flames. 

BATH, [/Wffcj/wjafufficient quan- 
tity of water collected in feme conve- 
nient receptacle, for people to waih in j 
either for health or pleafure. 

Baths are diftingui/hed into natural 
and artificial, and natural again into 
I cold. 

"(.'Baths, called by the antients 
. thermae, owe their origin partly to the 
admixture of fulphureous particles, 
while the water is pafllng through its 
fubterraneor.s canals, and partly to the 
fumes and vapours exhaling through 
Ure pores of the earth, where fulphur 




is either pure or impure, as in coals, 
amber, iron, nitre, Sec. The chief hot 
baths in our country are thofe at Bath, 
in Soinerfetfhirej and thofe at Buxton 
and Matlock,- in Derbyshire. 

In the city of Bath are four public, 
and one let of private Baths, the for- 
mer belong to the Corporation, and 
are called the King's, Queen's, Hot, 
and Crofs Baths'; the latter were built 
by the late Duke of Kingftcn, and are 
called by his name. The King's Bath 
is fupplied by feveral hot-fprings which 
rife in it, the Queen's has nofprings of 
its own, but communicates by an arch 
with the King's; the Hot and Crofs 
Baths have fprings of their own and 
rife at a confiderable dittance fro:n the 
King's. — The heat of the waters ac- 
cording to fome late experiments, as 
drank at the feveral pumps, is nearly 
as follows : 



Farenheit's 
thermometer 



When ufed as Baths their heat is about 
fix degrees lei's. 

Thefe waters are impregnated with 
fulpbur, common fait, and felenites, i- 
ron, and a fubtle volatile aerial fub- 
llancc, which philosophers have ciiliin- 
guiihrd by the name of fixible air. 

The Bath waters may be conndered 
in a medical view in two lights, viz. 
as taken inwardly, and with refpeft to 
their external application. Many ca- 
fes are adapted to both of thefe; but 
fome are mere peculiarly fuited to one 
of them cnly. 

Inwardly taken they are of fervice 
in the gout, in bringing the paroxyfms 
to a happy crifis, and fixing them in 
the extremities; in the decline of a 
fit of the gout, bathing in thefe waters 
has been found very ferviceable; — in 
palfy, bowel and flomach diforders, 
ieurofy, fcurvy, rheumatifm, jaundice, 
bilious diforders, gravel, obftinatechro- 
nic difeafes, &c. &c. they are very effi- 
cacious. 

Of the three hot European waters of 
note, viz. Aix la-Chapelle, Bourbon, 
and Bath, the firfl abounds more emi- 
nently in fulphur, which makes its. 
heat, naufeouihefs, and purgative fa- 
culty fo great, that few ftomachs can 
bear its heat and naufeoufnefs, and 
fewer weak conflituiions the violence 
of its purging. 

Th5 



A T 



BAT 



The Bourbon ard of a middle nature, 
between the Aix-la-Chapelle and the 
Bathwaters ; being lefs hot, naufeous, 
and purgative than thofe of Aix-la- 
Chapelle; but more fo than the Bath 
waters. The Bath waters partake lefs 
of the fulphur, and mere of the fteel, 
than thofe two, and of confequencc by 
far the moftpleafant and molt effectual . 

Ccld Baths were, by the antients, 
iield in the greateft efleem: and tho' 
they were long banifhed out of medi- 
cine, the prefent age can bcaft of abun- 
danceofnoblecures performed by them, 
and fuch as were long attempted in 
vain by the moft powerful medicine. 

The cold bath is ferviceable in moft 
chronic diforders; it always afts the 
part of a diuretic, and will do mote, 
efpecially plunging over head in fea 
water, in the cure of melancholy, mad- 
nefs, and particularly that occasioned 
by the bite of a mad dog, than any c- 
ther medicine. There is nothing of 
greater ufe in the cure of frigidity, when 
occafmned by excefs of venery, than 
the cold bath. It contributes much 
to the cure of a gonorrhea, and rluor 
albus; and is fuccefsful in a palfy. 

Artificial Ba t h s are various, accor- 
ding to the various occafions : as aque- 
ous baths, vaporous baths, dry baths, 
&c. Aqueous baths are made from 
common plants, and other emoilient, 
refolvent, and nervine fubftancesj con- 
fiding fometimes of milk and emol- 
lient herbs, with rofewater, &c. when 
the defign is to humectate, or when it 
is only to cleanfe, it confifts of bran 
and water alone; and when it is for 
an exceffive pain or tumour, &c. in 
thefe cafes it confifts of a decoction of 
roots, plants, and fome fpirit of wine. 

In vapour-batb.s, thedefign of which 
is to promote a perfpiration, the 'team 
or fume of fome decoction is received 
upon fome pErt of the body for that 
purpofe. In thefe baths, there is no 
part of the patient's body plunged into 
thedecoclion,only thofe parts which re- 
quire it, are properly difpofed to receive 
the (teams cf fome proper fomentation. 
Of this kind are the bagnios, where 
perfons are made to fweat by the heat 
of a room, and pouring on of hoc water. 

Vapour-baths arc of fmgular fervice 
in cold diftempers, anafarcas, cedema- 
tous tumours, paralytic cafes, fwel- 
iings of the tetticles, &c. 

Dry baths are made of afhes ; fait. 



fand, fhreds of leather, &c. This oath 
is fuceafeful in provoking fweat in a 
plentiful manner, the patient being 
placed conveniently for the recep-ion 
of the fumes: it is found ufeful in re- 
moving old obfiinate pains, and is very 
effectual in venereal complaints. 

Bath, among chemifts, fignifies a 
veffel with fome matter, as fand, water, 
or the like, in which another is placed 
that requires a more gentle he3t than 
the naked fire. Thus balneum arer.ofjx:, 
called alfo bahteuw Jiccum, and fand heat, 
is when the cucurbit is placed in fand, 
in a'hes, or filingss of fteel. BahteuHt 
marine, or maris, is when the veffel con- 
taining the ingredients to be diftiHed, 
&c. is put into a veffel of water, which 
is m.ide to boil ; fo that no greater heat 
than that of boiling water can be com- 
municated to the fubitance to be treat- 
ed. And balneum vaporh t or ■vapcrav.uir;, 
is when two veffels are difpofed In fuch 
a manner, that the vapour railed from 
the water contained in the lower, 
heatrs the matter contained in the 
upper. 

Bath, in htbrew antiquity, a mea- 
fure of capacity, containing the tenth 
part of an omer, or feven gallons and 
four pints, as a meafure for things li- 
quid : or three pecks and three pints. 
as a meafure for things dry. 

Bath, in architecture, fuperb build- 
ings erected for the fake of bathin;;. 

Thefe buildings, among the antients, 
were moft pompous and manificent; 
fuch were thefe of Titu;-, Paulus Emi- 
lius, and Dioclefian, whofe ruins are 
itill remaining. 

BATHING, the wafting, foaking, 
fuppline, refteftiiifig, moiftening, &c. 
the body or any part thereof, in water, 
liquor, &c for pleafure, or health. 

'1 ho' bathing hath been uftd with 
advantage in moft cafes, yet thei-e is 
fcarce any, but, in fome circurnftan- 
ces, it would be prejudicial; fo that 
to apply it with the greateft advantage, 
it \v :! be neceflTary to enquire what al- 
terations are made f.y it in a human 
body. It is well known that heat re- 
lates, and that cold. or. the contrary, 
contracts and braces the bodies it is 
applied to: the effects of cold bath- 
ing is attributed not only to its chil-' 
re'.s, and conftringing power, but in 
fome meafure to the weight of the 
water. Forfoppofe a perfon imrr.er- 
ged two feet, and tijc area of his fkia 
fifteen 



B A U 



BAY 



fifteen feet, he fuftains a weight of 
water, added to that of the air, equal 
to 22Solb. troy. Befides, the water in 
bathing, enters the body, mixe; with 
the bl od, and dilutes all the juices. 

BATTLE-ROYAL ; a term in 
cock-fighting, which implies a fight 
between either three, or five, or feven 
cocks all together, he that ftands long- 
eft gets the day 

B ATT ATA, Pctatoe, which fee. 
BAVINS. Faggots made with the 
brufh at length. 
f C4Z B AUW , or B ALM, [Melija] a plant 

J^ - very common in the English gardens. 

£>st//;/J . It is raifed either from feeds, or propa- 
gated by flips from its roots, which are 
perennial, though its ftalks are annual. 
The feeds fhou Id befowed in thefpring; 
but the flips plahted in October, that 
they may have time to get ftrength be- 
fore the frofts come on. The roots 
alfo of this plant may be parted into 
fmall pieces, with three or four buds 
to each. Thefe fhould be planted about 
two feet afunder in beds of common 
garden earth, where they will foon 
fpread fo as to meet each other. The 
only culture they require is to water 
them till they have taken root, to keep 
the plant clean from weeds, and to cut 
off the dry ltalks in autumn; ftirring 
the ground betweeen the roots. 

Baum, when in perfection, has a 
pleafant fmell, fomewhat of the lemon 
kind; and a moderately aromatic fub- 
acrid tafle. The young flioots have 
the ftrongeft flavour: the flowers, the 
herb itfelf when old, or produced in 
very moid rich foils or rainy feafons, 
are much weaker both in fmell and 
tafte. Palm is appropriated by the 
writers on the materia medica, to the 
head, llomach, and uterus; and in all 
diforders of thefe parts is fuppofed to 
do extraordinary fervice. So high an 
opinion have fome of the chemilts en- 
tertained of balm, that they have ex- 
pected to find in it a medicine which 
fhould prolong life beyond the ufual 
period. The prefent practice howe- 
ver holds it in no great erteem, and 
ranks it (where it deferves to be) a- 
mong the weaker aromatics : in diftil- 
lation, it yields an elegant eflential oil, 
but in exceed, ng fmall quantities ; the 
remaining decoction taltes roiighiih. 
Strong infufions of the herb, drank as 
tea, and continued for fome time, have 
done fervice in a weak lax ftate of the 



vifcera: thefe liquors, lightly acidula- 
ted with juice of iemons, turn of a 
fine red dim colour, and prove an ufe- 
ful, and to many a very grateful drink, 
in dry parching fevers. 

Moldavian Baum. See Moldavian 
B.vlm under flic article Balm. 

Mdueca Baum \TAoluccdla\ there are 
two fpecies, thefmooth, & the prickly. 
The firll grows naturally in Syria, 
and has, to fome people, a very plea- 
fant fmell, though to others it is \sry 
dif3gree.ible. The other fort is a na- 
tive of the Molucca iflands ; hence its 
name. They are both annuals, but 
being native? of warm countries they 
will not perfect their feeds here if fown 
in the lpring. The belt way therefore 
is to raife the plants in autumn, and 
then put them in pots and give them 
the benefit of a hot-bed frame in win- 
ter, but where they may have free air 
in mild weather : they may be tranf- 
planted into warm borders in. the fpring 
where they are to remain, and by this 
means good feed may be expected. 

Baumi df. Commandelr, [Com- 
mander's B.iifam.'] 

Take of dry Peruvian balfam, one 
ounce; 
Storax in the tear, two ounces j 
Benjamin, three ounces j 
Socotorine aloes, 
Myrrh, 
Olibanum, 
Angelica roots, 
St. John's wort flowers, each half 

an ounce; 
Spirit of wine, two pounds eight 

ounces by weight. 
Let them ftand together in the 
fun during the dog-days, in a 
glafs veflel, clofely ftopt ; and 
afterwards flrain out the bal- 
fam thro' a linen cloth. 
This balfam has been irferted, with 
little variation, in fome foreign phar- 
macopoeias, and likewife kept a fecret 
inp'ivue hands, under the titles of 
Fa famum PerficutH, balfam cf Berne, 
Wades balfam, Friars balfam, Jefuiti 
d*ops, &c. The form above is taken 
from the originpl receipt, published by 
Pomet. It Hands greatly recommended, 
externally, for cleanfing and healing 
wounds, and ulcers even of the can- 
cerous kind, for difcufling cold tu- 
mours, allaying gouty, rheumatic, and 
other cold pains and aches; and like- 
wife internally, for warming and 
ftrengthehing 



BAY 



BAY 



Strengthening the ftomach and intef- 
tines, expelling flatulencies, and re- 
lieving colicky complaints. Outward- 
ly, it is applied cold on the part with 
a feather; inwardly, a few drops are 
taken at a time, in wine or any other 
convenient vehicle. 

BAY. In huncing, when the deer 
is hard run, and turns his face againft 
the dogs, and keeps them off with his 
horns, he is faid to ftand at bay. 

Bay, a part of the barn on the fide 
of the floor deftined for the laying corn 
in the ft raw ready for threfhing. 

Bay, among feamen an opening into 
the land where the water is enclofed 
all round except at the entrance. 
Bay, a bank or dam to pen water. 
Bay, among horfemen, fignifies a 
colour, inclining to a chefnut, and this 
colour is various, either a light bay or 
dark bay, and we have alfo dappled bayt\ 
all bay horfes have black tails & manes. 
Bay, [Laurus] a v ell known tree, 
of which there are feveral fpecies, as, 
iff, the common broad -leaved bay; 2d, 
the common bay with waved leaves; 
3d, the narrow-leaved bay; 4th, the 
Indian bay; 5th, the Carolina bay 
with pointed leaves and blue berries 
upon long red footftalks ; 6th, the A- 
merican Benjamin tree; 7th, the Saf- 
fafras ; 8th, the Camphiie tree. The 
firft five forts may all be propagated 
by layers or feeds, which latter is by 
much the better method. The beft 
way is to fow the berries in pots, and 
plunge them into a moderate hot-bed, 
which will bring up the plants much 
fooner than if they were fown in the 
full ground, fo they will have a longer 
time to get ftrength before winter; but 
the plants muft not be forced with 
heat, therefore they fhould be inured 
to bear the open air the beginning of 
June, into which they fhould be re- 
moved, where they may remain till 
autumn; then the pots fhould be pla- 
ced under a common frame, that the 
plants may be protected from hard 
froft, but in mild weather may enjey 
the free air ; for while the plants are 
fo young, they are in danger cf fu«fer- 
ing in hard froft, even the common 
fort of bay. The fpiing following, 
thole plants which will not live in the 
open air, fhouk! be each transplanted 
into feparate pots.; but the common 
if K pay be planted innurfery-bedsfix 
inches aftinder each way, where they 
may grow tvtt years, by whi 



they will befit to plant where they are 
dehgned to grow. The other forts, 
which require protection, fhould be 
planted in pots, and placed in a fhel- 
tered fituation till autumn, when they 
fhould be placed in the «;reen-houfe. 

The common bay will make a va- 
riety in all ever- green plantations, and 
as it will giow under the fhade of o- 
ther tieeSj where they are nottooclofe, 
fo it is very proper to plant in the 
holders of woods, where it will have 
a good effect in winter. 

The fixth fort grows naturally in 
North America, where it rifes to the 
height of eight or ten feet, dividing 
into many branches, garnifhed with 
oval fpear-fhaped leaves, fn.ooth on 
their upper furface, but with man/ 
tranfverfe veins on their under fide; 
thefe leaves fall off in the autumn, like 
other deciduous trees. 

The Safiafras-tree is alfo very com- 
mon in moft parts ©f North America, 
where it fpreads greatly by its creeping 
roots, fo as to fill the ground with 
fuckers wherever they are permitted to 
grow, in America it is only a fhrub, 
feldomrifing more than eight or ten .feet 
high; the branches are garnifhed with 
leaves of different fhapes and fizes, 
fome of them are oval and entire, a- 
bout four inches long and three broad; 
others are deeply divided into three 
lobes ; thefe are fix inches long, and 
as much in breadth from the extremi- 
ty of the two outfide lobes ; they are 
placed alternately upon pretty long 
foot-ftalks, and are of a lucid green ; 
the flowers appear in the fpring juft 
below the leaves, upon (lender foot- 
ftalks, each fultaining three or four 
final! yellow flowers, which have five 
oval concave petals, and eight itamina 
in the male flowers, which are upon 
different plants from the female; thefe 
have an oval genr.en, that afterwards 
becomes an oval berry, which, when 
ripe, is blue. 

The Camphire-tree grows naturally 
in japan, and in feveral parts of India, 
where it rifes to a tree of middling 
flature, dividing into many fmall bran- 
ches, garnifhed with oval fpear-fhapCfil 
leaves, fmooth on their upper fide, ha* 
ving three longitudinal veins which u- 
nite above the bafe; if thefe are brui- 
fed, they emit a ltrong odour of Cam- 
phire, as alfo the branches when bro- 
ken. Thefe have male and female 
P flower- 



BAY 



BAY 



flowers on different trees ; the male has 
b^en known to flower plentifully in 
England ; the flowers indeed were 
bflkW, and compofed of five concave 
yellow petals, very like thofe of the 
Salfafras-tree, which were produced 
by threes or fours upon each footftaik 
in like manner. 

The Safiafras-tree is commonly pro- 
pagated by the berries, which are 
brought from America ; but thefe ber- 
ries generally lie in the ground a whole 
year, and fometimes two or threeyears 
before they grow, when they are fown 
in the fpring; therefore the furelt me- 
thod of obtaining the plants will be, 
to get the berries put into a tub of 
earth foon after they are ripe, and fent 
over in the earth ; and as foon as they 
arrive, to fow the berries on a bed of 
g rund, putting them two inches 
in the earth ; and if the fpring fhould 
ptove dry, the bed mud be frequently 
watered, and fna-'ed norn the great 
heat of the fun in the middle of the 
clay. With this management many 
of the plants will come up the fir It 
feafen ; but as a great many of the 
berries will lie in the grou::d till the 
next fprlhg, (o the bed fhould not be 
diflurbcd, but wait until the 
after, to fee what will come up : the 
firR winter after the plants come up, 
they fhould be protected from the frolt, 
efpecially in the autumn ; for the flfft 
early froft at that feafon is apt to pinch 
the Ihoots of thefe plants, wlii< art 
tender and full of ftp, and do them 
more injury than the fevere froft of 
the winter; for when the extreme part 
of the (hoots are killed, it generally 
affecls the whole plant. 

When the plants have grown a year 
in the feed-bed, they may be tranf- 
planted into a nurfery, where they may 
ftanti one or two years to getftrtngth, 
and may then be transplanted into the 
places where they are to remain for 
good. 

There have been fome of the plants 
pn ited by layeis, but thefe are 
commonly two, and fometimes three 
years before they put out roots ; and 
if they are not duly watered in dry 
weather, they rarely take root; fothat 
it is Uncertain whether one in threecf 
thefe layers do fv.zcesd, which makes 
Thefe plant., very fcarce in England at 
prefent. 

The Benjamin- tree, as it is falfly 



called, may be propagated in the fame 
manner as the Saffafras, by fowing of 
tiie berries; thefe generally lie long in 
the ground, fo that unlefs they are 
brought over in earth, in the fame way 
as before directed, they often fail, or 
at leaft remain long in the ground; 
but this fhrub is now frequently pro- 
pagated by layers in England, which 
put out roots pretty freely, when the 
young fhoots are chofen to make layers. 

The Camphire-tree is very near a- 
kin to the Cinnamon-tree, from which 
it differs in the leaves, thofe of the 
cinnamon-tree having three ribs run- 
ning longitudinally from the fcot-ftalk 
to the point, which are remarkably 
large : whereas the ribs of the leaves 
of this tree are fmall, and extend to- 
wards the fides, and unite before they 
iruet the footitalks ; the leaves have a 
fmooth fhiningfurface; they have male 
and female flowers in different trees, 
fo that there is a neceffity for both 
fexes to fland near each other, in order 
to have good feeds. 

In Europe this tree is propagated by 
layers, which are two years, and fome- 
times longer, before they take root, fo 
that the plants are very fcarce; and as 
all thofe which I have feen flower are 
male tiees, fo there can be no horesof 
procuring feeds from them here; but 
if the berries of this, and alio of the 
cinnamon-tree, were procured front 
the places of their growth, and plant- 
ed in tubs of earth, as hath been di- 
rected for the Saffafras-tree, there may 
be a number of thefe plants produced 
in England: and if they were fent to 
the Britifh colonies in America, they 
might be there cultivated, fo as to be- 
come a public advantage; efpecially 
the cinnamon-tree, Which will grow 
as well in fome of our iflands in the 
Weft-Indies, as it doth in the native 
places of its growth ; and in a few 
years the trees might be had in plenty, 
for they propagate eafily by the berries. 
The Portugu'-zc brought fome of the 
cinnamon-trees from the Eaft-Indies, 
and planted them on the ifland of Prin- 
ces, on the coaft of Africa, where they . 
now abound, having fpread over a ^itat 
part of the iflr.nd ; there is alfo one of 
the trees growing at the Madeiras, and 
1 am credibly informed there are ma- 
ny trees in the Brazils. 

The Camphire-tree does not require 
any artificial heat in winter, fo that if 

they 



B E A 



B E A 



they 2re placed in a dry green-houfe, 
they will thrive very well. Duringthe 
winter feafon they muft be fparingly 
watered, and in the fummer they fhould 
be placed in a warm fituation, where 
they may be defended from ftrong 
winds, and not too much expofed to 
the direct rays of the fun; and during 
this feafon, they mull befrequentiy re- 
frefhed with water. 

They may be propagated by cut- 
tings, which fhould be planted in pots, 
and plunged into a moderate hot-bed, 
covering them clofe with a hand-glals, 
and fhading them in the heat of the 
day. 

Bay of Alexandria, [Rufcus] . See 
Bu'chersBroopi. 

BAYARD, a bay horfe. 

BDELLIUM, [Bdellium] a concrete 
refinous juice, brought from Arabia 
and the Eaft-Indies ; it is recommend- 
ed internally as a fudorific, diuretic, 
and uterine; and in external applica- 
tions for maturating fvvellings, Sec. but 
islittleregardedin prefent practice. 

BEAD-TREE, [Axederach, Melia] 
This is a kind of Sycamore or wild 
Afh ; the flowers confift of five leaves 
which fpread like a rofe. The fruit 
is roundifh and flefhy, containing a 
hard furrowed nut, divided into five 
cells, each containing one oblong 
broadifh feed. The outfide pulp of the 
fruit in fome countries is eaten, but 
the nuts are by religious perfonsinpo- 
pifh countries bored through andftrung 
as beads. It is a native of Syria, but 
flourifhes well in Portugal, Spain, and 
Italy. 

BEAGLE, a kind of hunting dog, 
©f which there are feveral fpecies, the 
fouthern beagle, which is flow of foot, 
the northern fleet beagle, and the fmall 
beagle. 

BEAM, is the largeft piece of wood 
in a building which lies acrofs, into 
which the principal rafters are framed. 
No building has lefs than two of 
thefe beams, one at each end; the 
girders of the upper floor are framed 
into them, as alfo the teazle tenons 
of the pcfts, if the building be of 
timber. 

The proportion of the beams in and 
near London has been fixed by fta- 
tuteas follows: A beam fiiteen feet 
l»ng, muft befeven inches by five: fix- 
teen feet long muft be eight by fix; 
and feventeea feet, ten inches by fix, 



Beam cf a Plcuglt, tht largeft piece 
of timber in a plough, to which all 
the parts of the plough tail are fixed. 

Beam-Tree, a fpecies of fervice. 
See Service. 

BEAN, [fiaia,] The bean was well 
known to, and much efteemed by the 
antients ; but Mr. Ray obferves it is 
difputed amongft the botanifts, whe- 
ther their bean was the fame which is 
now ufuaily fowed with us ; fince it is 
very certain, from many places both of 
Theophraftus and Diofcorides,that the 
bean of the^ antients was fmall and qt. / 
round. /?,#V fife ///s>dfi7/i /yfsaA Jf* 

Yet, as he obferves on the other 
fide, it feems incredible, that a pulfe fo 
common, and of fuch daily ufe, fhould 
be utterly difufed, or change its name, 
and have another fubftituted in its 
place, without any one taking notice 
of it. 

But if a conjecture may be allowed 
in this cafe, the bean of the antients, 
as defcribed by Mr. Ray to be fmall 
and round and which was formerly 
fo much eaten, feems more like what 
is now called the mazazan bean, after 
mentioned, than that we molt "com- 
imnly fow. And as to the ufe of it 
being loft, or the name being changed 
without any particular notice taken of 
it, fo many things of that kind have 
happened, in the fucceflion of ages, 
that it cannot occalion much wonder. 

The forts cf beans are principally 
two: the common field, or horfe 
beans; and the great garden beans of 
various forts and colours, for the moll 
part white, but fometimes red. 

The bean has a papilionaceous flow- 
er, which is followed by a long pod, — 
filled with large feeds, the ftalks are 
firm and hollow, and the leaves grow- 
by pairs, and are faftened to a middle 
rib. , 

The common farmers feldom fow /?? JS"r 
any but the fmall or horfe beans in the 
open fields: but as many of thofecal- 
led anien beans are now much culti- 
vated in the fields, as well near London, 
and in feveral other places, and are e- 
quaily capable of being managed after 
that manner, and that with greater ad- 
vantage to the owner, the one as well 
as the other deferves a place in fuch a 
general undertaking as this, for the far- 
mer's intereft, whole advantage ought 
tc be particularly regarded in every 
point. 

P 2 It 



B E A 



B E A 



It was very common to plant Lif- 
bon or Portugal be ms very early under 
walls, that they might have the bene- 
fit of the fun : but thofefuuations are 
frequently fatal, and therefore molt 
now rather chufe to let them againft 
hedges, or reed hedges run along the 
garden for that purpofe. And yet 
wi the greateft care, and thedefired 
fuccefs, they will only be found about 
a week or ten days earlier than thofe 
fet in the fpring, and are not to be ef- 
teemed of the beit kind. 

The firiijli Spanifh bean comes In 
quickly after the Lifbon bean, and is a 
fweeter, and will confequtntly be pre- 
ferred to the other. 

The I road Spani/h bean is a good 
beanr, and coming in before the com- 
mon forts, is valuable upon that ac- 
count. 

The Sandwich bean fucceecL foon 
after the .par.iih, and is almofr as big 
as the Windforj is a plentiful nearer, 
and* hardy bean; and confequtnt!; 
may be fown byamonth. 

'i he 1 oker bean is a great bearer, 
and com. "s in about the fame time with 
the Wjndfor. 

The Dloflom beans, black and white, 
areveiy green when bailed, and very 
. I>ut the feed is fubj eel to de- 
generate. 

The Windfor bean is undoubtedly 
the bed of all for the table ; and, when 
gat! icd young, is the fweeteft and 
beil rafte^ of all; and when they have 
room a> ' :i good foil, they are plenti- 
ful bearers, and very large. 

Thefe are feldom planted till (Thrift - 
mas, hecaufe they bear not thefrofls 
fo well a; feme of the others, fo they 
generally come in June and July in a- 
bundance. 

The Mazagan bean is efteemed the 
firl v and befl fort of early beans now 
known. The feeds are much fmalle; 
than thofe of Horfe beans; and, con- 
fequently, fcem more aerecnble to the 
fort mentioned by the antients. 

If thefe arefown in Oftober under a 
warm hedge, pale, and fo on, and 
earthed up as they rife", they will be rea- 
dy in May, and b:ar plentifully. 

Thefe feeds were brought from the 
coafts of Africa by the Bortuguefe, and 
from them to us, and brought hither 
as wanted. When the feed is fared 
hers they grow larger, but ripen notfo 
foon. 



Beans when about two inches high, — * 
fhould be carefully earthed up, and fo 
as they rife two or three times ; and in 
very fevere weather, fhould be covered 
with fern, peafe-haulm, or fome light 
covering, but to be taken off in mild 
weather. 

Thefe plantings of beans may be re- 
peated once in three weeks, and the 
lefs care is neceffary as they come later, 
and tt;e lefs feed. The felting them at 
the greater dillance will do as they are 
fet later. The Windfor beans may be 
fet in rows at a yard diltance, and at 
three inches in the rows, or rather far- 
ther off. 

The after crops fhoi:ld be planted a- 
bout a foitni/ht diftance aftei each o- 
ther, from February to the middle of 
May, kept clear from weeds, and 'tis 
well to keep earthing them up ; and i 
when they are in bloffom to cut off v\j 
the tops of all, which will help to in- 
cieafe the pods, and alfo to deft'roy 
thofe flies, fo pernicious to them : the 
later the beans ate fown, the moilter 
ground they require; and it is proper 
to takeoff the fuckers, when the beans 
are about a foot high. 

There may be faid to be four ways 
of fowing, or planting of beans. 

The old way of fowing them in the 
field was generally to plow the ground, 
and let it lie fome time: then to low 
them in the broad caft way, and nar- 
row them in, which was feldom found 
to anfwer well; the feed being too 
much expofed to be eaten by fowls, or 
burnt up in fu miner by heat, for want 
of a proper depth of earth. 

But of late they have generally fow- 
ed the beans under furrow, by plow- 
ing them in with as thin a caft as pof- 
fible; and, in very ftiffl it's, they har- 
row tne ground after a fhower, whea 
the beans begin to p*ep, which helps 
to break the clods, and let out the 
tops. But great care fhould be taken 
not to plough too deep, for fear vi bury- 
ing the feed ; and to lay the turf flat, 
not edge-ways, that the beans may be 
covered with mould; finceif they lie 
hollow, they will be fubjedt to grow 
mouldy and decay. 

Thefecond way is by the drill plough, 
of which fort of" hufbandry the beans 
are fomewhat capable; though a very 
ftiff foil, and the make of the bean does 
net fuit it well. 

The third method is the fetting tlje — 
heaps 



B E A 

J//f/?/C- beans by hand, in rows, in holes, ata- 

— " bcut three inches diftance, when the 

ground is properly prepared^ which the 
women will do in many places for 

threepence the peck. This is a very 

moderate expence; and will be faved 
in the feed beans ufed this way, in 
comparifon of what are ufed in the 
common method of fo wing. 

The fourth way is lw fowing them 
in drills made by the hand-hoe, or by 
the common plough, which method is 
yfed by gaideners, who (being very 
expert ai the hand-hoe) will difpatch 
a great deal in a fhort time, and plant 
the rows at any deiired alliances, either 
to have the interstices left open for o- 
ther vegetables to grow betwixt them, 
or for the beans to fpread, as for the 
hoeing them after by the hand or Dutch 
hoe, or by the late contrivance of run- 
ning a fmail plough betwixt the rows ; 
/ L or, laftly, for letting fheep into the 

beans in the fields to eat the weeds, 
which they will do at proper times 
without prejudicing the beans. 

This method of fowir.g or planting 
the beans, feems to have every ad- 
vantage that can be obtained both in 
refpettof the depth and diftance they 
are to be placed at ; and alfo in regard 
to their beiug indofed by mellow foil, 
into which they may freely ltrike every 
way. 

The ufual quantity of feed for an 
acre is about three bufhels in the com- 
mon way, which is now found more 
than neceffary; fince experience fhews, 
that when they have more room, they 
bear much better both on account of 
their having opportunity to fpread in 
a freer air, and more fun to refrefh 
them. 

It may not be amifs to remind the 
farmer to take care frequently to change 
his feed, which is very neceffary to be 
done fometimes, in all forts of beans ; 
and not to fow beans in the fame ground 
foon. The bert method of changing 
— is, by bringing feed from ft iff land to 
that which is lighter, and from the 
lighter to the fliffer. 

The feafon ufual for the fowing of 
field beans is, from the middle of Fe- 
bruary to the end of March : the 
flrongeft and the wet land fhould be 
fown the lateft, and the other forts 
proporticnably fooner : feme regard is 
alfo to be had to the weather. 
..A ftrong moift foil fuits the bean 



B E A 

the beft, and it profpers better in an 
open expofure than when confined in 
fmall inclofures; where it is molt fub- 
je£t to blights, and the pernicious fly. 

As to the preparing the ground for 
beans, there are two things to be con- 
fidered: When the ground is onlyjuft 
broke up for them ; and when accord- 
ing t6 the courfe of tillage, it is to be 
prepared for, and dt or fowed with 
beans. 

In the firft cafe the ground is fuppo- 
fed to be in a proper condition for a 
goc<l crop, and then fuch a produce 
is expefted. Alfo, that it fhould lie 
ufeful in making the land mellow for 
an aftercrop of corn; and likewife to 
keep down the weeds. We ate told 
by a very ingenious modern writer, 
that thefe ends, and much the greateft 
produce will he obtained, if the drill and 
hori'e plough be ufed to ftir the ground 
betwixt the rows of beans. 

The ftrong objection againft the 
horfe plough in this cafe is, that it 
turns the weeds toward the beans, and 
that it is then more trouble to get them 
out there, than the hoeing the whole 
with the hand hoe. 

In cafe any improvement is found 
proper to be added to them, during the 
time of their growth, almoft any com- 
port may be fpread amongft them ; and 
will prefently incorporate with the 
foil, on the loofening i either by the 
hoi fe plough or hand hoe; but hemuffc 
be a bad farmer who has not his ground 
in common good heart for beans. 

Beans cannot befaid always to be a 
profitable crop to the farmer, but in 
ftrong land they mellow the ground and 
prepare it in fome degree for wheat, 
oats, bailey, &c. 

Another advantage of beans is, that 
they give an opportunity of planting 
or fetting other roots betwixt the rows, UJ Ca l> 
which will not hinder the growth of 
the beans, and may bring in a confi- 
derable profit ; and whoever looks into 
a good gardener's ground, will foon fee 
fuch varieties of this kind, as to give 
him fufficient choice of this fort. This 
the gardeners call, under cropping, and _ 
great variety of vegetables, as carrots, i^/t^/o. 
lettuce, and many more of the fame 
nature, may be fowed or fet in the in- 
terrtices, 

Peafe have frequently been fewn, 

and are thought to do tolerably well 

with beans, and it is faid may he ,.d- 

v.vuajeovifiy 



• E E A 



B E A 



vanteoufly fupported by the beans, but 
I apprehend chat wherever they clafp 
round ine beans, there can be no ex- 
pectation o'" any pods from the bean: 
as jar as the pea reaches; lie- . , 
peafe may bz fafely fowed betwixt 
them, when the beans are fet in rows 
two feet afunder : Which diftance the 
heft modern writers allow as produ- 
cing the belt crop, where there is tole- 
rable compafs of ground, which is the 
«afe when beans are fowed in the fields, 
which we are n <w upon. 

Turnips fowed betwixt the beans 
would be found to anfwer well, both 
as a crop of turnips, and for the keep- 
ing down the weeds, which would be- 
here a confiderable article. 

Beans are ufually reaped with hooks, 
after the fame manner as peafe, or fhorn 
after the manner of white corn; and 
in both ways after bound up in fheaves, 
and fet on an end together, as wheat 
is in the fouth. 

They are commonly bound with 
ftraw bands, but the better farmers 
buy a coarfe fort of hemp twine by 
the hundred weight at afmall expence, 
and cutting them into proper lengths, 
bind up the bean fheaves with them ; 
and this makes every thing after eafy 
and commodious in the management 
of them ; and by allowing about three 
inches more than neceffary the firft 
year, for the lofs of cutting them open 
when bid on the floor for th refiling, 
they will ferve two years very vveil. 

The beans fhould lie in the mow or 
rick to fvveat before they arc threfhed 
out; for as the haulm is very large and 
fucculent, fo it is very apt to grow 
moift, but there is no danger of the 
beans if they were flacked tolerably 
dry, becaufe the pods will prefei ve them 
from injury, and they will be much 
eafier to threfh after they have fweat- 
ed; they will handle better and come 
better to market, and when they have 
once fweated and are dry they will 
not grow moift again. 

Kidney Br an or French Bean, [P'r.j- 
fe:!us] There are a great number of 
(forts tco well known to need a parti- 
cular clefcription, and are all propa- 
gated by feeds ; they are too tender to 
bear the open air before the middle or 
end of April ; for if the weather be cold 
or wet after they are in th.- ground, 
they wiil foon rot; or if the morning 
-.roil fhould happen after the plants 



come up, they will be destroyed ; there- 
fore the belt way to have early Kid- 
ney beans, where there is no conve- 
niency of Barnes for railing them, is to 
fow t feeds in rows pre ty clofe. up- 
on a moderate hot bed, the latter end 
of March or the beginning of April. 
If the Ik i of the bed is fufficient to 
bring up the plants, it will be enough ; 
this bed fhould be arched over with 
hoop; that it may be covered with 
mat ..ry night, or in bad weather. 
In this bed the plants may ftand till 
they haveput out their trifoliate leaves, 
then they mould be carefully taken up, ■ 
and tranl'planted in warm borders near 
hedges, pales, or walls. If the feafon 
prove dry at the time of removing 
them, the plants fhould be gently wa- 
tered to forward their taking new root, 
and afterward they mult be managed 
in the fame way as thofe which are 
fewn in the full /round. Thefe tranf- 
planted beans will not grow fo ftrong 
as thofe which are not removed, nor 
will they continue fo long in bearirg, 
but they will come at lead a fortnight 
earlier than thofe which are fown in 
the full ground. 

The firft crop intended for the full 
ground, fhould be put in about the 
middle of April ; but thefe fhould have 
a warm lituation and a dry foil, other- 
wife the feeds will rot in the ground ; 
or if the weather fhould prove fo fa- 
vourable as to bring up the plants, yet 
there will be danger of their being kil- 
led by the morning frofts, which fre- 
quently happen the beginning of M3y. 
The fecond crop fhould be fown a- 
bout the middle of May. Thefe will 
come into bearing before the early 
kinds are over, and if they are of the 
fcarlet fort, will continue fruitful till 
It destroys the plants in the 
autumn, and thefe will be good as 
long as they laft. The manner of 
planting them is, to draw (hallow 
furrows with a hoe, at about four feet 
diftance from each other, into which 
you (hould drop the feeds about two 
incites afunder; then with the head 
of a rake draw the earth over them, fo 
as to cover them about an inch deep. 

If thefeafon is favourable, the plants 
will begin to appear in about a week's 
time after lowing, and foon after will 
raife their heads upright; therefore, 
when the ftems are advanced above 
ground, you fhould gently draw a little 
earth 



B E A 



B E A 



earth ap to them, obferving to do it 
when the ground is dry, which will 
preferve them from being injured by 
fharp winds ; but you fhould be care- 
ful not to draw any of the earth over 
their feed leaves. After this, they 
will require no farther care but to keep 
them clear from weeds, until they pro- 
duce fruit when they fhould be care- 
fully gathered two or three times a 
week; for if they are permitted to re- 
main upon the plants a little too long, 
the beans will be too large for eating, 
and the plants would be greatly weak- 
ened thereby. 

The large forts of Kidney-beans 
mull be planted at a greater difiance 
row from row ; for as thefe grow veiy 
tall, fo if the rows are not at a farther 
difiance, the fun and air will be exclu- 
ded from the middle rows, therefore 
thefe fhould not be lefs than five feet 
diftant row from row; and when 
the plants are about four inches high, 
the poles fhould be thruft into the 
ground by the fide of the plants, to 
which they will fallen themfelves, and 
climb to the height of eight or ten feet, 
and bear plenty of fruit from the ground 
upward. The Dutch and French pre- 
ferve great quantities of the large 
Dutch beans for winter ufe, which 
they ftew and make good with gravy 
and other fauces. 

There are fome perfons who raife 
thefe in hot-beds, in order to have 
them early. The only care to be ta- 
ken in the management of thefe plants, 
when thus raifed, is to allow them 
room, and give them as much air as 
can be conveniently, when the weather 
is mild, as alio to let them have but a 
moderate heat; for if the bed be over 
hot, they will either burn or be drawn 
up fo weak as never to come to good. 

The beft way of faving the feeds of 
thefe plants, is to let a few rows of 
them remain ungathered in the height 
of thefeafon; for if you gather from 
the plants'j for fome time, and after- 
wards leave the remaining for feed 
their pods will not be near fo long 
and handfome, nor will the feed be fo 
good. In autumn, when you find they 
are ripe, you mould in a dry feafon 
pull up the plants, and fpread them a- 
broad to dry; after which you may 
tiirefh out the feed, and ptefcrvc it in 
j dry place for ufe. 

Bean Cai*er-, {Fahago] the leaves 



are produced by pairs on the fame fooi- 
ftalk, and the footftalks grow oppo- 
fite at the joints of the ilalks; the cup 
of the flower confifts of five leaves like 
a rcfe ; the fruit is cylindrical, five cor- 
nered and divided into five cells, each 
containing many flat feeds. — There 
are four forts, one a native of Syria, 
and the other three brought from the 
Cape of Good Hope. 

The feeds of the firft fort mould be 
fowed in fpring on a moderate hot-bedj 
when they come up they may be by de- 
grees brought to the open air, but to- 
wards winter fhould be taken in and 
fheltered from the froft; after the firft 
year they will bear the open air with- 
out affiftance; the ftalks die at winter 
and fhoot out afrefh at fpring. 

The other three forts are too tender 
to bear the open air in winter, fo fhould 
be houfed in autumn: they are pro- 
pagated by feeds or cuttings. 

BeanTrefoil, [Cytij'us, Labtirnuvi\ 
Of this plant there are feveral forts, all 
propagated by feed, and which bear 
the winters of England except two, one 
a native of the Canary iflands, which 
fhould be kept in the green-houfe in 
winter; the other a native of the Weft- 
Indies, and called the pigeon pea plant, 
cannot be prefervedin England txeep? 
it is placed in a warm fiove. 

Bean Tree, [CeratiafiUqua, Cuato- 
nia] the carob-tree or St. John's bread. 
This tree is common in Spain and fome 
parts of Italy, where it grows in the 
hedges, and produces agreat number of 
long fiat brown-coloured pods, vvhicii 
arefometiines eaten by the poorer fort 
of people. It is an evergreen, and 
forms a variety with myrtles, oranges, 
&c. It is propagated by feeds, whicli 
fhould be taken out of the pods and 
fown in the fpring in a moderate hot- 
bed, inuring them to the open air by 
degrees ; in winter they mult be kept 
in the green-houfe. 

BEAR or BERE, a fpecies of bar- 
Icy, called alfo winter barley, fquare i 
barky, and bigg. — It is principally _ 
cultivated in Scotland andthe northern 
parts of Engiand, and yields a large in- 
creafe, but is not efteemed fo good for 
malting as other barley. 

BEAR BIND, [Sepium~\ a fpecies of 
bindweed or convolvulus 

BEARD, {Anfta] a needle-like pro- 
cefs, which grows to the end of bar- 
ley, oals, &c, Bearxj 



BEE 



BEE 



Beard of a horfe, the hairs Scatter- 
ed on his under lip. 

Old Mans Beard, a fpecies of Cle- 
matis or virgin's bower. 

BEAR's-BREECH, or Brar.hurfwe, 
[Acanthus] All the forts of Acanthus 
may be raifed by feeds or offsets; the 
feeds fown in the fpring generally come 
up in about fix weeks, and fhould be 
kept free from weeds ; the firft win- 
ter they fhould be defended from the 
fVofts, and about March following 
tranfplanted where they are to re- 
main; the only care required is to 
Keep them clean from weeds, and to 
i'upport their (talks with (takes topre- 
vent their being blown down by the 
wind ; it is a beautiful plant and a na- 
tive of the warmer p3rts of Europe. 

BE AR's-E AR, the fame as Auricula, 

BEARVFOOT, a fpecies of Helle- 
bore. 

BEAR's-WORT. See Spignell. 

BEAST, a general name for four- 
footed animals. 

• Brasts of burden, all four- footed 
animals employed in carrying lead as 
dromedaries, camels, elephants, horfes, 
males, affes, &c 

Beasts of chace, are the buck, the 
doe, the fox,-- the rce, and the martin 
or martein. 

Beasts of the f-.i-ejl, the hart, the 
bind, the boar, and the wolf. 

Beasts of the warren, the hare and 
the rabbit. 

BEC or Beck, a little river. 

BF.D1N J AN, the eggplant. 

BEDSTRAW, [Gallium] This has a 
flight fubfaline tafte, with a very iaint, 
bo: difagreeable fmell : the juice chan- 
ges blue vegetable infufions of a red- 
difh colour, and coagulates milk, and 
thus difcovers feme marks of acidity. 
It ftands recommended as a mild ftyp- 
tic; but has never been much in ufe. 

BEE, [Apis] The Bee is a creature 
which has this great recommendation to 
the farmer's notice, of being kept with 
very iittlc exptnee, and lefs trouble; 
and which atfhefame time yields him 
two commodities that are always mar- 
ketable, and always bear a conhdera- 
ble price, wax and honey. 

Volumes have been written on the 
bee before its nature was fo well nn- 
des flood as it is at prefenu volumes 
therefore might be added, for with the 
more perfeel knowledge of its nature, 
w^ have a: rived at the difcovery of 



many other of its properties: but we 
do not in this work intend any where 
to expatiate for the fake of an idle cu- 
riofity. That it is the intereft of the 
indu'ftrious hufbandman to keep bees 
is plain, becaufe they will bring him 
profit, and naturally fall in the way of 
his profeffion ; this therefore we re- 
commend to him : and that he may be 
able to do it in the moft advantageous 
manner, we (hall, as on all other occa- 
fions, lay down the heft rules expe- 
rience has (hewn for that purpofe. 

In the generation of infects, nature 
obferves this conftant method, that all 
fuch as have no wings, are produced 
from the eggs of their parents, or 
brought forth alive in their own forms, 
whereas ail thofe which have wings 
undergo a kind of change. Thefe are 
hatched from the eggs of their winged 
parents, in form of caterpillars, worms, 
or maggots , in which they live a cer- 
tain time, and then fall into a (late of 
reft, covering themfelves with a web 
or cafe of their own making; or 
fhrinking into then (kins which har- 
den for that purpofe : and after they 
have lain a certain time thus, they 
break forth in the winged form like 
their parei ts. 

This ha. bf en fnppofed to be much 
more wonderful ilaln it is ; the vulgar 
have thought thai it was a change of 
one creature into another; and the 
learned have adopted the folly, as it 
were, under the hard word metamor- 
phohs of infe&S. But the truth lb, the 
butterfly is in the caterpillar, and only 
takes that time to grow to its due per- 
fection. 

As this is the cafe with all winged 
infefts, the bee, being one of them, mull 
have its origin in the fame manner, and 
the method is this. When the combs 
are made, a female parent lays an egg 
in every cell, thefe eggs hatch into a 
kind of white maggots, and after thefe 
have lived their time, they fall into a 
(late of reft within the ceil, and in due 
feafon the bee burits forth, and takes 
its P.ight. 

There is this very fingularin bees, 
that they are of three kinds. In the 
generality of animals there is a male 
and female fex, and no other diffe- 
rence; but among bees, there are males, 
females, and others of no fex at all. 

Thefe laft are the greater number, 

and go through all the drudgery. The 

males 



BEE 



E E 



•males are but a moderate propoition, 
and when they have performed their 
office in impregnating the females, 
they are driven out of the hives tope- 
rilh. The females are very few, but 
each lays a vaft number of eggs, and 
they are always taken great care of in 
the fwarm. They are diftinguifhed 
from the others by their fize and fhape, 
and have been called by the names of 
Kings and Queens of the fwarm. 

The two valuable fubftances with 
which the bees fupply the farmer, wax 
and honey, are both extracted from 
the flowers of plants. The wax is 
fomewhar altered by the creature to 
bring it to that ftate, but the honey they 
find in its own form. 

In the flowers of plants there fland 
up certain flender threads, with little 
lumps upon their tops. Thefe are in 
fome more, in others fewer, and upon 
the number of them is founded the 
prefent fafhionable method of clafllng 
plants. Tlitfe lumps or knobs which 
Hand thus in the centre of the flowers, 
contain a fine duft, which ferves to 
impregnate the feeds of the plant : 
but as nature frequently provides f jr 
many purpofes in the fame thing7 this 
powder or Quit which is,, formed in a 
much greater quantity than it is want- 
ed for the fervice of the herb, aflifls 
the bee for its combs, in which to de~ 
pofit its honey and its young, furnifh- 
ing the materials of which wax is fa- 
bricated by the creature. 

Toward the bottoms of fome flow- 
ers, and at the bottoms of others, there 
are alfo certain cells, or lodgments of 
different kinds, fhapes, and forms, in 
the which is held a fwcet juice ; this is 
honey. This the bee takes out, and 
has nothing more to do than to remove 
or carry it to its cells. 

This is the real and certain origin of 
wax and honey.. The bee feeds upon 
the duft which is found in thefe lumps 
in the centre of flowers, and after- 
wards difgorges it for the fervice of the 
hive. It affords fome nourifhment to 
the little body of the infect, and after 
that is carried off, and the refidue has 
undergone the operation of the crea- 
ture's ftomach, it is wax. With this 
the combs are formed of that beauti- 
ful and ufeful figure, and in the cells 
of thefe is depofited the fweet juice, 
which they collect from tht\bottoms 
of flowers, and which, without any af- 
fiftance from them, is honey. 



There have been many contrivances 
of late to fave the bees when the ho- 
ney is taken; but thefe are not necef- 
fiiry; for a proper management with 
the common hives, placing one over 
another for the reception of the crea- 
ture, will anfwer all the fame purpo- 
fes. We do not fay that this will an- 
fwer all the purpofes that are pretend- 
ed to be anfwered by the others : but 
all that they really effect. 

The form and fafhion of the com- 
mon ftraw hives is fufficientiy known; 
but they are often made too high for 
their width. The beft fize is fuch as 
would hold about fix gallons, and the 
hufbandman will do well to orderthefe 
to be made a Httle more fquat than the 
common practice allows. 

The hives muft be trimmed as 
fmooth and even as may be^ cutting 
off all flaring ftraws, and the fpleets 
are to be then put in, three or four de- 
fending from the top to near the edge, 
and a couple of others to fupport the 
opening or door, and two more be- 
hind : thefe laft are to be thruft firmly 
into the fubftance of the hive, to keep 
it from finking when it is full. 

Let a fpot be chofen not far from the 
houfe, and well defended from winds 
every way. The be ft fecurity of this 
kind is by proper hedges; and thefe 
fhould be fo contrived as not to keep 
out the fun; for the bee requires 
warmth, as well as ftillnefs. The 
place muft be well defended againft: 
cattle, hoth for the bees fake and their 
own ; for thefe little creatures hate 
difturbance, and they generally refent 
it very feverely. Thebeft fituation is 
when the houfe, or fome large build- 
ing, ftandsjo the North, that it may 
be perfectly defended on that quarter, 
and the opening is to the fouth, to let 
in the beft rays of the fun. There 
fhould be alfo fome trees pretty near 
to receive them at the times of their 
fwarming. » 

The place being thus chofen, let 
there be fet up a parcel of ftools for 
the hives to ftand upon. The ufual 
method is to fet feveral together on a 
bench, but it is not fo well. It occa- 
fions a great deal of confufion among 
the bees, who often miftake one hive 
for another, and in winter they will 
quarrel about it, and do one another 
a great deal of mifehief. 

For yet farther fecurity, thefe (tools, 

r/uh the hives upon them, may be in- 

Q^ clofed 



BEE 



BEE 



clofed in a little boarded building, ci- 
ther fingly, or feveral of them toge- 
ther ; which may have a tiled covering 
to keep off wet, iind doors to fhut or 
open according to thefcverity ormild- 
nefs of the feafon. 

The winter is the feafon in which 
bees are mo(t liable to injuries; bnt 
thefe they in a great meafure efcapc if 
their hives be wel! made, and well de- 
fended, and they will keep within them. 
Any thing of a building about the 
hives ferves to darken as well as to 
fhelterthem; and this in winter is of 
great fervice, for it prevents their going 
out at every time when the fun hap- 
pens to mine a little, which they o- 
therwife are too apt to do, and fo are 
killed by the cold while they are a- 
broad. 

It is for this reafon the greateft 
number cf bees perifh in the mildefl 
winters. This founds odd, but they 
keep within the hives in very fevere 
feafons, and are there fafe, whereas 
they go out in thefe mild days and 
perifh. 

When bees are thus kept dufky and 
fhdtered during winter, the doors are 
to be thrown open early in Spring, 
to promote their indu'try and their 
breeding. 

At the time of the bees fwarming, 
the hives intended to be ufed are to be 
rubbed with thyme, hyffop, or bean 
tops, which will pleafe the bees, and it 
i s a good methodto rub a little honey on 
the infide. 

The hives are to be plaiftered down 
to the Aools with a mixture of cow- 
dung, fand, and a little lime; this mud 
be carried round the edges to keep all 
clofe, and fence out the wind; and in 
the winter the door of the hivefhould 
be flopped with a fmall piece of board 
that has two or three notches in it, to 
let the bees through, and not large e- 
nough to let in any thing that would 
hurt them. V^ 

When the bees increafe, fo that they 
are too many for the hive, they natu- 
rally fwarm. The time of doing this 
is the beginning of fummer, and this 
is a feafon at which the owner is to 
watch them with a particular care, for 
the increafe of his flock, and his pro- 
fit, depend principally upon his ma- 
nagement at this juncture. 

Toward the middle cf May, if the 
feafon favour, the owner is-tc watch the 



hives to be prepared for their fwarm- 
ing. When the drones are thrown 
out early, it is a fign the hive is full ; 
and when, after this, the bees are feen 
continually in clufters about the door, 
and often lie out; and when there is 
fome moifiure about the foot of the 
hive, at times, and they hover in great 
numbers together round the door, it is 
always a iign of fwarming. When 
there happens a warm gleam of fun, 
after a flight fhower in the middle of 
a calm day, they may be expected to 
tnke that opportunity of riling ; and 
if, juft after this, they be feen hang- 
ing in clufters, about the door of the 
hive, it is to be immediately expeded. 
Sometimes one fwarm of bees will 
cafl another in the fame year;, this is 
an article of which the hufbandinan 
cannot be fo well aware, as of the 
firft and more certain fwarming; but 
he is to watch as foon as he fees the 
firft figns of it, and follow them in all 
refpedts as the firft fwarms. 

According to the bignefs of the 
fwarm the owner is to chufe a larger 
or fmaller hive, and his great care is to 
get them properly into it. The bee is 
a creature that will bear fome dirtur- 
bance without refcntment, but they 
muft not be too far ruffled ; when they 
are angry their fling is a very fevere 
weapon. It may always happen that 
fome of them may be provoked in this 
great article of hiving, and for that 
reafon the perfon who undertakes it 
fhould be prepared againft the danger. * 
Let him have a net wove, with the 1 2 A/O 
mefhes fo fmall that the bee cannot 
get through them, and large enough to 
be put on over his hat, and fall down 
upon his fhoulders. His face and 
neck will be thus perfectly defended, 
and he will be able ail the while to fee 
what he is doing ; let him put on a 
thick pair of woollen flockings, and 
a pair cf gloves of the fame fluff, 
Which it will be beft to draw up pretty 
high upon his arm. When lie is thus 
deTende^, let him go to work foftly 
aftd fedately, for any hafty motion dif- 
tui b& and angers the bees. 

Let a cloth be fpread upon the 
ground near where the bees are fettled, 
and the hive laid upon it. Their com- 
mon place of alighting is the boug!> 
of a tree, and if this be a fmall one, 
let the hufbandman approsch foftly to 
it, and gently cut it off; let him cake 

it 



E E 



BEE 



it down quietly and lay It upon the 
cloth, and fet the hive over it. This is 
the moft familiar and eafy way, and 
none fucceeds fo well : when the bees 
have fettled upon a larger bough, or 
otherwife difpoled themfelves, fo that 
this method cannot be taken, the huf- 
bandman is to fhake them off into the 
hive, and then to fet it upon the cloth 
fpread for that purpofe. If they hap- 
pen to light near the ground, the beft 
way is to draw the cloth under them, 
and then making them off, cover them 
with the hiv#. When any number 
gather at fome little diftance from the 
hive, he is to move them gently to- 
ward it with a brufh ; and if they 
take to any other place, he is to wipe 
them offwith a brufh, and rub the place 
with fomething difagreeable to them, 
as wormwood, or ftinking mayweed. 
Finally, the fwarm is to be fet as near 
as can be to the lighting place, and all 
left to be quiet. 

When an old flock of bees is to be 
removed from one place to another, a 
proper feafon, and a proper day are to 
be chofen for that purpofe, and it is to 
be done with a great deal of caution. 
The beginning of October is the beft 
time, but it may be done in February, 
or any time in the winter; but fairand 
Hill weather fhould be chofen for the 
doing it; and an evening is the beft 
time, when the bees are quiet. 

The bees, for the greateft part of 
the year, provide perfectly well for 
-themfelves; but in hard feafons they 
are to be aiTifted, and they will repay 
the owner's trouble with intereft. The 
'■>food he is to give them is not expen- 
live, and the beft way of doing this, 
is by conveying the food in a cane, or 
little trough, into the hive. Many 
kinds of food have been contrived for 
them, but the beft found on repeated 
experience, is a mixture of honey with 
fweet wort, or new beer, and a little 
bay fait ; this not only gives them the 
needful fupply of nourishment, bit 
always makes them healthy and vigo- 
rous. Some give bread fopped in ale, 
and they will eat it greedily : the ho- 
ney is, however, certainly the beft, 
becaufe it is the melt natural food. 

Quiet is a great article in the care of 
bees, therefore all noife and disturb- 
ance are to be ss much as pofnble 
i-:fpt from them. We have already di- 
ddled that cattle fhould be kept away 



by good fences, and for tin's reafon the 
place of their letting them fhould be 
far from public roads, or cartways. 

Smoak is vesy rieftruclive of them, 
and they are always to be carefully de- 
fended from it, especially that fmoak 
which rifes from the burning any thing 
upon the ground, for it is eafily driven 
by the leaft wind juft upon them, be- 
ing on their level, and it choaks and 
deftroys them. All bad fmells alfo do 
them harm, and render their habita- 
tion difagreeable. 

In years wherein wafps and hornets 
are numerous, they do great mifchief, 
entering the hives, and plundering them 
of the honey ; but it is eafy to guard 
againft thefe, by fetting vials of fweet- 
en'd cyder near the hive, nothing 
tempting the hornet and the wafp fo 
much. 

All the fummer they are colleding 
honey ; in Auguft the combs are full- 
elt, and from that time the bees often 
eat more than they get, fo that the 
quantity decreafes. This points out 
the end of Auguft very plainly, as the 
time at which there is moft honey in 
the hive : that therefore is the proper 
feafon for taking it. 

The old way is to kill the bees, and 
take the produce at this feafon; but 
many methods have been invented for 
faving them. However, as there is 
not any great purpofe anfwered by 
preferving them when their food is 
taken away, unlefs more care and 
trouble be taken sbout them than it is 
worth the farmer's while to bellow ; 
I lhall advife him to follow the old me- 
thod, and deftroy the fwarm when he 
has taken their ftores. This practice 
is not fo cruel as it appear*, for the 
life of the bee is very fnort naturally; 
and with the beft management they 
pafs but an uncomfortable winter after 
they are robbed of thsir natural pro- 
vifion. 

At the end of Auguft therefore let 
the hufbandman conlider what he will 
keep, and what he will kill. In this 
he is to be direded in a great meafure 
by the age of the fwarm, the beft to 
keep being thofe of one or two years 
Handing ; or thofe ot three or four 
years, which, by reafon of their fwarm- 
ing the bit fummer, are full of bees, 
and are the molt likely to be good. 
The fwarms of three or four years old 
which have call hives are to ise killed, 
Qji becaufe 



B E 



BEE 



becaufe they are not like to continue 5 
as are alio thofe poor (warms that are 
not worth the feeding ; and all light 
flocks, and fucli as do not cany out 
their drof>, or drive away the drones 
in good time. Thefe are the principal 
rules for the farmer's conduit in this 
matter, and to thefe may he added, 
that he mould take for killing all fuch 
as are three years old or upwards, that 
have milled fwarmir.g the two prece- 
ding years, and fuch as are weak and 
eafily plundered. THefe arc the direc- 
tions he is tefeilqvvin the taking tnem, 
and he is noc to omit the temptation 
of a large ftore, whatever be thfe con- 
dition of the hive : therefore if he per- 
ceive any to be very fofl, as they will 
fometimes in good years be down to 
the bottom, he mull take thefe, for 
ttoey never can be better, and often 
one fuch hive is worth three. 

When the hives that are to be taken 
for the honey ate marked, let there be 
a hole dug in the ground of about nine 
inches deep, and nearly of the bignefs 
of the bottom of the hive, with the 
fine mould piled up round the brim. 
Having this hole prepared, about two 
hours before fun fet, take a hrimfione 
match, as long and thick as a large 
fkewer, fix it in the flit of a I'mall elefb 
flick, with a fliarp point. Stick this 
in the ground at the bottom of the 
hole, fo that the top of the match 
may come within an inch of the level 
of the rim : if one be not fufadent, 
another may be added, prepared in 
the fame manner. Let the top of each 
match be lighted, and then fet the hive 
over the hoie. Draw the fine mould 
about the edges to keep in the fmoak, 
and thus let it Hand a quarter of an 
hour. In that time the bees will be 
all dead. 

The hive is now to be taken into the 
houfe, and the combs are to be car«- 
fully feparated, taking them out one 
by one. The dead bees are to be brufh- 
ed off with a feather, and when that is 
done, the combs are to be broke each 
into three pieces. 

There will a good deal of honey flow 
naturaily out of thtfe, and this is to 
be kept by itl'elf. 1-t is called virgin 
honey : but the fame name is alfo given 
to the fir ft honey of any fwarm. Let 
this honey he put in a pet, and fet by 
two or three days ; in this time if there 
be any mixture of wn or other foul- 



nefs among it, that will work to th« 
top in a kind of fkum, and is to be 
taken off. 

After the combs will run no longer, 
they are to be preffed, and this way 
they afford a large quantity of what 
is called common honey. The combs 
after they have been thus preffed, ar3 
to be warned, and when all the fweet- 
nefs is ut of them, they are to be 
worked for wax. The liquor in which 
they are wafhed, and the coarfer part 
of the honey, are ufually made into 
a kind of mead. 

The wafhed combs are to be fet over 
a fire in a large kettle of water, and 
boiled, llirrineit continually about to 
prevent burning to the bottom or fides 
of the kettle. When the wax is well 
melted, pour all into a ftrainer, and 
immediately putit into a prefs, fetting 
a veffel of cold water under it; into 
this let the wax fall 5 and let the prefix- 
ing be continued as long as any wax 
can be forced out. 

When all is thus got that will come, 
let it be taken out of the water, and 
moulded and worked up into balls in 
the hands; and after this let thefe 
balls be broken to pieces, and fet over 
a gentle fire to melt. Let the wax be 
fkimmed as the froth rifes, and when 
thoroughly melted, and well fkimmed, 
let it be (trained flowly through acan- 
vafs bag, and received in an earthen 
pan, or other mould, which is to be 
firfl rubb'd over with a little honey. 

When all the wax is run through, 
this is to be fet to cool very gently in 
a tolerably warm room, and when tho- 
roughly cold, and taken out, the bot- 
tom is to be pared off, and it is ready 
to be fold. 

This is the plain and ufeful way of 
managing bees, and making the moft 
of their produce. A great many very 
ingenious contrivances have been made 
for the curiofity of perfons of fpecu- 
lation ; but nothing more than this 
need be regarded in practice, when the 
profit and advantage are the objects of 
the attention. 

Leaf-cutting Bees. Make their neft, 
and lay their eggs among bits of leaves 
placed in holes of the earth, of the 
length of a tooth-pick cafe. 

TFhli Bees, Make their nefts in 
walls ; the male and female are of a 
fize, and the former has no fling. 

W-. od Bees, ar^ rather larger than 
common 



BEE 



BEE 



common bees, and make their neits In 
wood half rotten. • 

Mafon Bees, build thejr nelts againft 
a wall, where they make their cells, 
and produce their young. 

Ground Bees, make their habitation 
in the earth five or fix inches deep. 

BEECH. [Fagus] This is a beau- 
tiful as well as valuable tree, the leaves 
are of a pleafant green; it may, be 
planted either in woods or open fields, 
in both which places it grows to a con- 
siderable height, and carries with it a 
proportionable thicknefs. 

The common method of raifingthefe 
plants, is, fowing their feeds in beds, 
very thick, early in the fpring, and 
letting them ftand two years; or, by 
drawing a part of them the firfl and 
fecond year, leaving the remainder till 
three years old : But this, however 
general, is a very bad practice, as the 
plants thus drawn have moft of their 
tender fibres torn away, (an injury 
they will not foon recover) and what 
remains, will be carrot-rooted, andfuf- 
fer much, by the neceffity of fhorten- 
ing thefe roots (then hard and woody) 
before transplanting them. Mr. Bout- 
cher directs the following practice as 
what he has found moft fuccefsful in 
the culture of this tree, and bringing it 
fooneft to perfection : 

Being provided with maft from the 
ftraighteft and frefheft trees, as foon 
in autumn as the hufks are quite dry, 
mix them with land, and lay them un- 
der an old frame, or other covering, 
to protect them from froft and wet. 
This will prepare the feeds for vegeta- 
tion, and difappoint the mice, who 
generally have a large fha;e of them 
when early fown. 

In the beginning of March, fow them 
thin in fhallow drills, about eighteen 
inches afunder; and if the feafon is 
dry, and water at no great diflance, 
give them frequent but moderate wa- 
terings, from their beginning to appear 
above ground, till the middle of Au- 
gull, which will much forward the 
growth of the plants. 

In March, next feafon, with a fpade 
made very fharp for the j^urpefe, un- 
dermine the roots as they ftand in the 
drills, and cut them over between four 
and five inches ur.c'er ground. 

The following autumn, or fpring, 
you may either raife the whole, or give 
them another cutting below ground, 



when gently raifing fuch as are to» 
thick, leave the remainder, at proper 
diftances, to ftand another feafon. 
This manner of cutting the roots dex- 
teroufly has, in a great meafure, the 
fame effect as tranfplanting. 

Thofe you have raifed, after fmooth- 
ing the bruifed and broken roots, and 
cut away fome of the fmall hairy fi- 
bres, muft be planted in lines two feet 
afunder, and nine or ten inches in the 
line : and if the foil is good, 3nd the 
plants have grown vigoroufly, they 
fliould remain here only two years, but 
in poor land they may continue three. 

Thofe left in the drills where fown, 
are, next autumn, or fpring, to be 
treated as thefe. 

From this nurfery they may be re- 
moved to another, and planted in lines 
three feet and a half afunder, and eigh- 
teen inches in the line, where they may 
remain, if in good foil, three, but in 
poor land four years; obferving always 
to prune moderately at removal, and 
leave abundance of fmall branches to 
increafe their bodies. 

At this period, thefe plants will be 
fit for common and extenfive planta- 
tions; but fuch as are defigned for re- 
moval, when large trees, muft under- 
go more difcipline. 

Thefe muft now be removed to ano- 
ther nurfery, and planted in lines five 
feet afunder, and at two feet diitance in 
the line, to remain in good ground 
three, but in poor four years. 

From this* remove them again, and 
plant them eight feet afunder line from 
line, and fix feet in the line, to remain 
four years. 

From this nurfery, if required of a 
larger f;ze, remove them to fields, 
planting them ten feet afunder every 
way, to be ready foryourftiture defigns. 

No deciduous tree agrees worfe than 
this with pruning at removal, to which 
may be added, wounding them, by cut- 
ting off large branches, the beft method, 
of treating them, is to reduce them to 
their proper form by regular pruning 
in the nurfery, pajticulaily the feafon 
before they are tranfplanted ; by regu- 
larly obferving which, and keeping them 
in a proper degree of moifture, they 
will not be fenfibly retarded in their 
future growth. 

The forts with variegated leaves, are 
propagated by budding them on the 
common kind. 

The 



BEE 



BEL 



The beech naturally delights in a 
chalky or ftony ground, and although 
the timber is not fo valuable, yet from 
its thriving in foil where few other 
trees will grow, the propagation mould 
be encouraged ; befides this it affords 
an agreeable (hade, and is an excellent 
shelter to defend any thing from the 
feverity of the winds. 

Beech majl, the feed of the beech- 
tree. 

This mart is very good for feeding 
fwine; fo that in fome counties of 
England, where there are large woods 
of beech-trees, the hogs are fed for 
months together on the mart only. 
They thrive prodigioufly on this food 
cnly, fo that many porkers are killed 
in a year fatted with beech-maft, with- 
out the affiftance of any other food. 
It is, however, the better way to take 
them up, and give them either pollard, 
barley-meal, or peafe, for a month or 
five weeks, when they will be fit for 
the tub. 

But Beech-maft, like acorns, are apt 
to give the hogs a di (temper called the 
garget; which may be effectually pre- 
vented, if a few peafe or beans moif- 
tened with water, and fprinkled over 
with antimony finely powdered, be 
given them every other day for a fort- 
night or three weeks. 

BEE-FLOWER, a fpecies of Or- 
chis. 

BEER. A common and well-known 
liquor, made of malt ar.d hops, and 
ufed in various parts of Europe, par- 
ticularly in thoie where the vine will 
not flourifh, and where cyder isfcarce. 

The grounds, or fettlings of beer, 
&c. form a very rich manure. 

Bf.er-Measure. Two pints, one 
quart; two quarts, one pottle; two 
pottles, one gallon ; nine gallons, one 
firkin ; two firkins, one kilderkin ; 
two kilderkins, one barrel; onebarrels 
and half, one hogfhead. 

BEESNEST, or Birdsn est. See 
Wild Carrot. 

BEESTINGS. The firft milk of 
cows after calving. 

BEET. [Seta]' Of this there are 
three forts, the white beet, led htet, 
and fea beet : They are propagated for 
culinary purpofes, and eafily raifed by 
feed, keeping then clear from weeds, 
and fepa rated by the hoe to a proper 
diftancc, that they may have room to 
fpread. 



BEETLE. [Malleus] A wooden in- 
Arument employed in driving wedges, 
piles, flakes, &c. 

Beetle, is alfo the name of a fly- 
ing infect, of which there are a great 
variety of fpecies ; fome large with 
horns, others fmall without horns j 
but they have all of them caps over 
their wings to defend them from hard 
bodies. 

BEEVE. The general name of ox- 
en, or black cattle. 

BEHEN, or Ben, in pharmacy, a 
name appropriated to two roots, very 
different from one another in fhape, 
colour, and their whole external ap- 
pearance, and diilinguifhed by the 
names of white and red behen. 

We have them both from the Levant, 
and they feem to be produced in many 
parts of the Eaft; but no where in 
fuch plenty as about the foot of Mount 
Lebanon. 

The fame virtues are attributed to 
both kinds of behen, but the white is 
fuppofed to poffefs them in the great- 
eft degree ; they are faid to be great 
cordials and refloratives, and to be 
good in nervous complaints. 

BELLFLOWER. [Campanula] Of 
this are divers forts in the gardens, 
which may eaflly be propagated by 
parting the forts, or fowing the feeds. 

BELL-MUSK. Syrian mallow. 

BELLING of Hops. Denotes their 
opening and expanding their flowers, 
which is generally about the beginning 
of Auguft. 

BELLONIA. A plant common in 
the warmer iflands of America, rifing 
with a woody item to the height of 
ten or twelve feet, fending out feveral 
lateral branches, garnished with oval 
leaves; the flowers come out from the 
wings of the leaves in loofe panicles of 
a wheel fhape, ar.d divided into five 
parts : It is propagated by feeds, but 
requires the affiftance of a ftove to 
preferve it. 

BF.LL PEPPER. See Capsicum. 

BELLY- ACHE- WEED. [StafMf- 
agrifolia^ A fpecies of Caffada, fo call- 
ed in Ameiica, and the Weft-Indies, 
being fuppofed a remedy for that dif- 
eafe. 

BELT, a difeafe in fheep, when the 
heat of the dung fcattered on the tail, 
fcalds and breeds a fcab. — The cure is 
effected by cutting away all the tags 
and cleaning the fore, then fhakrng a 
little 



B E R 



B E S 



little bole armoniac en the part, and 
tken drefTing it with tar and greafc 
mixed together. 

BELVEDERE, [Scopana] a fpecies 
of goofe-foot, called alfo iuminer cy- 
prefs. 

BENJAMIN-TREE. See Bay. 

BENT-GRASS, grafs common in 
pafture grounds, of which there are 
feveral forts. 
9 t ». BERE, Bear , or Bin, Is a fpecies 

■ — of barley, chiefly confined to Scotland, 

of considerable produce, but inferior 
in quality to the other barleys cultiva- 
ted in the fouthern paits of Britain; 
there are two forts of this barley, the 
one with four rows of grain, the other 
with fix, the latter is named barley-big. 
The grain is plump and large, but the 
rind being coarfe it is not fo well fuited 
to malting. 

Both forts are generally fown in the 
— autumn, about the time of fowing 
wheat, fometim.es in January, Febru- 
ary, or even March ; fucceeds well af- 
ter early turnips, fown about Chrift- 
nias a little before or after. 

BERGAMOT, a fpecies of pear. 
Alfo the name of an efience brought 
from Italy, extracted from a fruit pro- 
duced by ingrafting a brand) of a le- 
mon tree on a pear flock. 

BERRY, [Bacca] Defined by Lin- 
naeus to be a pulpy pericarpium, or 
feed-veffel, without a valve, inclo- 
sing feveral feeds which are naked, 
or have no other covering. The feeds 
are fometimes difperfed promifcuoufly 
through the pulp, as in the water- 
Jilly; but are generally placed on re- 
ceptacles, or foot-ftalks, within the 
pulp, as in the currant, goofeberry, 
rafpoerry, &c. 

In the leffer burdock, the feed-vef- 
fel, which is called by Linnaeus, tho' 
improperly, a berry, is dry, and con- 
tains within it, a nut furnifhed with 
two cells. 

The feed-veffel, or fruit, of the cap- 
ficum, which the fame author alfo im- 
properly ftiles a berry, has no pulp, 
and is hollow within. 

From thefe and other inftances which 
might be produced, we may fafely af- 
firm, either that the definition of a 
berry juft now given, is imperfecl, or 
that the feed veffcls of a great number 
of plants are, in the genera planta- 
rum, wrongly denominated berries. 
To (ay truth, it is fometimes difficult 



to refer a pericarpium to the head of 
bacca or drupa, as defined by Linnsus. 
The only difference betwixt thefe feed - 
veffels confifts in the nature of feeds 
inclofed within the pulp. In- the lat- 
ter is inclofed a nut, or flone ; in the 
former, a number of naked feeds. 
Thefe definitions being eftabljfhed, to 
what head are we to refer the leffer 
burdock, which, as we have feen, con- 
tains a nut within a dry pericarpium? 
Why, certainly, to the head of drupa, 
as well as the wall nut, and many other 
plants which have a dry feed-veffel in- 
clofing a ftone, or nut. On the other 
hand, we may refer the wallnut, and 
other dry pericarpiums, which inclofe 
a nut, with equal propriety, to the 
head of bacca, as the leffer burdock, 
the feed-veffel of which is denomina- 
ted, by Linnaeus, a berry. 

The very different fi uits,or, to fpeak 
more properly, feed-veffels of the fu- 
mach, night-fhade, fow-bread, med- 
lar, orange, and pine-apple, are all de- 
nominated berries. 

The berry is commonly round, or 
oval, and frequently furnifhed, like the 
apple, and other fruits of that kind, 
with an umbilicus, or fmall cavity, at 
the end oppofite to the foot-ftalk. 

A berry is faid to be proper, when it 
is formed of the pericarpium, or feed- 
veffel; improper, or fingular, when it 
is formed of any of the other parts. 

The latter fpecies of formation is 
frequent, and admits of numerous 
varieties. 

The following are the moft confi- 
derable : 

In the mulberry, rofe, blite, and 
myrtle-leaved fumach, a large, flefhy, 
and fucculent calix becomes a berry. 

In the ftrawberry and cafhew nut, 
a berry is formed of the common re- 
ceptacle. 

In therafpberryand adonis, of a feed. 

In marvel of Peru, of thenedlarium. 

In garden-burnet, of the tube of 
the corolla, which hardens and fhuts 
for thatpurpofe. 

In fpindle-tree, of a fucculent aril- 
lus, or proper feed-covering. 

The berry does not naturally gape, 
or burft; the difperfion of the feeds 
within the pulp being deiigned to be 
performed by means of animals. 

BESIDARY, the name of a pear. 

BESLERIA, in botany, a genus of 
didynamious plants, whofe flower con- 
fifts 



BET 



B I P 



fifts of a monoplous calix, which con- 
tains a tingle fabiated petal, quinque- 
fid and round ; the filaments are four 
in number, two of which are longer 
than tiie others; the ftyle is awl-fha- 
ped, and refts on a globofe germen, 
which afterward becomes a round 
berry cf one cell, containing many 
rouiid fmall feeds. 

Thefe plants (of which there are 
three fpecies) grow naturally in the 
warm parts of America, from whence 
the feeds have been brought to Europe, 
and cultivated in fome curious botani- 
cal gardens. They are fown on a hot- 
bed in the fpring, and kept in the 
ftove in winter. 

BETEL, an Indian plant in great ef- 
teem in the Eaft, ufed by the natives to 
rub their lips and teeth, the latter of 
which it makes black, and the former 
red. 

BETONY, [Betor.ka] This is a low 
plant, growing in woods and fhady 
places, in feveral parts of England : 
the flowers come forth in June and 
July ; they are of a purplim colour, 
and A3nd in fpikes on the tops of the 
ftalks. The leaves and flowers have 
an herbaceous, roughifh, fomewliat 
bitteriih tafle, accompanied with a 
very weak aromatic flavour. — This 
herb has long been 3 favourite among 
writers on the materia medica, who 
bave not been wanting to .it tribute to 
it abundance of good qualities. Ex- 
pe:i..>c* »k*ea not ciifcovcr any other 
virtue in betony than that of a mild 
Corroborant : as fuch, an int'ufion, or 
light decoction of it, may be drank 
as tea, or a faturated tinclure in recti- 
fied fpirit, exhibited in fuitable dofes, 
in laxity and debility of the vifcera, 
and diforders proceeding from thence. 
The powder of the leaves, fnuffed up 
the nofe, provokes fneezing ; and hence 
betony is fometimes made an ingre- 
dient in fternutatory powders : this 
effect is not owing, as is generally 
fuppofed, to any peculiar fiimulating 
quality in the herb, but to the rough 
hairs which the leaves are covered with. 
The roots of this plant differ greatly 
in quality from the other parts : their 
tafte is bitter and very naufeous : ta- 
ken in a fmall dole, they vomit and 
purge violently, and feem to have fome- 
what in common with the roots of 
hellebore. It is pretty Angular, if true, 
that betony arfecls thofe who -gather 



any co'nfiderable quantity of it, with 
a diforder refembling drunkennefs; 
Simon Paulli and Bartholinus arts the 
vouchers. 

Paul's Betony, \Perattica mail 
This is a low rough plant, met with 
on dry commons or fandy grounds ; in 
tafte, fmeii, and medical virtues it is 
fiiriilar to Betony. It is called a!fo 
Mate Speedwell or tltteltin. 

BIDALEor BIDALL, is an invita- 
tion of friends to drink ale at the houfe 
of fome poor man, who thereby hopes 
a charitable contribution for his relief; 
it is (till in ufe in the Weft of Eng- 
land, and in fome copies falfly writ- 
ten Bildate. 

BIENNIAL, lafting two years. 

BIG, the fame with Bear, Bere, 
or £qua-e Barley. </&&. - 

BlGGE, a pap or teat. 

BILL, a crooked inflrumentof iron, 
with a handle to cut with. — When it 
has a fhort handle it is called Amply a 
Li"; when a long handle it is called a 
hejpiag-iil/. 

LIjVlETWOOD. Statutable billet 
fhould hold three feet in length, and 
feven inches and half in compafs. 

BIFOIL or TWYBLADE, [pphryi] 
There are feveral forts growing na- 
turally in England, in woods, and mea- 
dows, and others upon hills and dry 
paflures. They all may be preferved 
in gardens, though not propagated 
there. The heft time to remove the 
roots from the ;-!aces where they na- 
turally grow, is ju ft before the /talks 
fall, for at that time the roots may be 
eafily difcovered, and then they are be- 
ginning to reft, (o that the bulb will 
be fully formed for flowering the fol- 
lowing year, and will not fhrink; but 
when they are removed at a time of 
the year when they are in action, the 
bulb defigned for flowering the fol- 
lowing year, not being fully ripened, 
will fhrink, and frequently perifh j or 
if they furvive their removal, do not 
recover their former itrength in lefs 
time than two years. 

When thefe are removed into a gar- 
den, the foil fhould be adapted to the 
forts. Such of them as grow natu- 
rally in moift places, fhould be planted 
in fhady moid borders; thofe which 
are inhabitants of woods may be plant- 
ed under trec-s in wilderneffes, but fuch 
as r;row upon chalk-hills fhould have 
a bed of chalk prepared for them in 

an 



BIN 



BIN 



r 



V 



^ 



& 



t? 



an open fituation, and when the plants 
are fixed in their feveral places, they 
fhould not be difturbed after, for if 
they are kept clean from weeds, the 
lefs the ground is difturbed, the better 
the plants will thrive, and the longer 
they will continue. 

BILLBERRY, [Vacciniuni] other- 
wife Whortleberry or Cranberry. 
There are feveral forts growing in 
different parts of the kingdom, and 
the fruit is much ufed in tarts. They 
are feldom propagated in gardens, as 
fome forts only love fandy heaths, and 
others only bogs and moors. 

BIN, a cheft to hold corn. 

BINDWEED, [Convolvulus] There 
are an abundance of forts of this plant 
found in the gardens, all which are pro- 
pagated by parting the roots, and low- 
ing feeds. Among this genus are in- 
cluded Scammony, Soldanella, Tur- 
bith, and Jalap. 

The Scammony or Syrian Bindweed, is 
a native of Syria, where the roots of 
the plants are wounded, and fhells pla- 
ced under the wounds to receive the 
milky juice which flows out, which is 
infpiffated, and afterwards put up and 
exported : this is what they call Scam- 
mony in the fhops : it is a very hardy 
plant, and will thrive very well in the 
open air in England, provided it is 
on a dry foil. The roots are thick, 
run deep into the ground, and are co- 
vered with a dark bark. The branches 
extend themfelvcs on every fide to the 
diftance of ten or twelve feet ; they 
are flender and trail on the ground, 
and are garnifhed with narrow arrow- 
pointed leaves. The flowers are of a 
pale yellow, and come out from the 
fide of the branches, two fitting upon 
each long foot ftalk ; thefe are fucceed- 
edby roundifhfeed-veffels, having three 
cells, filled with feeds fhaped like thofe 
of the former fort, but fmaller. If the 
feeds of this fort are fown in the fpring 
on a border of light earth, the plants 
will come up, and require noothercul- 
ture but to keep them clean from weeds, 
. and thin the plants where they grow 
. too clofe ; for as the branches extend 
very far, the plants fhould not be nearer 
than five feet afunder. The flalks 
decay in autumn, but the roots will 
abide many years. 

Scammony is an efficacious and 
ftrong purgative. Some have con- 
demned it as unfafe, and laid fundry 
R 



ill qualities to its charge ; the princi- 
pal of which is, that its operation is 
uncertain, a full dofe proving fome- 
times ineffectual, whilft at others a 
much fmaller one occafions dangerous 
hypercatharfes. This difference how- 
ever is owing entirely to the different 
circumftances of the patient, and not 
to any ill quality, or irregularity of 
operation, of the medicine : where 
the inteftines are lined with an excef- 
five load of mucus, the Scammony 
paffes through, without exerting itfelf 
upon them ; where the natural mucus 
is deficient, a fmall dofe of this or any 
other refinous cathartic, irritates and 
inflames. Many have endeavoured to 
abate the force of this drug, and correel 
its imaginary virulence, by expofingit 
to the fume of fulphur, diffolving it 
in acid juces, and the like; but tlii* 
could do no more than deftroy as it 
were a part of the medicine, without 
making any alteration in the reft. 
Scammony in fubftance, judicioufly 
managed, ftands not in need of any 
corrector: if triturated with fugar or 
with almonds, it becomes fufneiently 
fafe and mild in operation. It may 
likewife be conveniently diffolved, by 
trituration, in a ftrong decoction of li- 
quorice, then poured off from the fas- 
ces : the college of Wirtemberg affures 
us, that by this treatment it becomes 
mildly purgative, without being at- 
tended with gripes or other inconveni- 
ences; and that it likewife proves in- 
offenfive to the palate. The common 
dofe of fcammony is from three to 
twelve grains, 

Soldanella, Sea-Coleworts, or Scotch 
Scurvy-Grafs, is a trailing plant, grow- 
ing on the fea-beach in many parts of 
the North of England . The root, leaves, 
and ftalks yield a milky juice. Solda- 
nella is a ftrong cathartic, operating 
very churlifhly, arid hence defeivedly 
rejected from practice. Thofe who 
recommend its ufe differ confiderably 
with regard to the dofe ; fome direfit 
half a dram, others three drams, and 
Others a whole handful. 

Turbith grows naturally in the iflan'' 
of Ceylon; this isapeiennial plant, 
having thick fie(hy roots which fpread 
far in the ground, and abound with ;j 
milky juice, which flows out when the 
roots are broken or wounded, arrd foon 
hardens into arefinous fubftancewhen 
ejtpofed to the fun and air. From the 

root 



E I ;N 



B I R 



root fhoot forth many twining branch- 
es, which twift about each other or the 
neighbouring plants like the common 
Bindweed. They are garnilhed with 
heart-fhaped leaves, which are faft to 
the touch, like thofe of the marfh-mal- 
low. The flowers are produced at the 
joints on the fide of the ftalks, feveral 
ftanding together on the fame foot- 
ltalk ; they are white, and fhaped like 
thofe of the common great Bindweed, 
and are fucceeded by round capfules, 
having three cells, which contain two 
feeds in each. 

The roots of this plant, which is ufed 
in medicine, are brought to us from 
India; it is titled Turpethum,or Tur- 
bith, in the lhops. This plant is ten- 
d«r, fo will not thrive in the open air 
in England. 

This root is a cathartic, not of the 
fafeft, or moA certain kind : the refi- 
nous matter, in which its virtue refidcs, 
appears to be very unequally dillribu- 
ted, infomuch that fome pieces, taken 
from a fcruple to a dram, purge vio- 
lently; whilft others, in larger dofes, 
have fcarce any effect at all. An ex- 
tract made from the root is more uni- 
form in ftrength, though not fuperior, 
or equal, to purgatives more common 
in the fhops. 

Jalap grows naturally in the Spanifli 
Weft Indies, between La Vera Cruz 
and Mexico, and being a native of a 
warm climatewill not bearthe open air 
of England, unlefs prefervedin a ftove. 
As a medicine, fuch pieces fhould be 
chofen as are compact, hard, weighty, 
dark coloured, and abound moft with 
black circular ftriae. Slices of briony 
root are faid to be fometimes mixed 
with thofe of jalap : thefe may be ea- 
fily diftinguifhed by their whiter co- 
lour, and lefs compact texture. This 
root has no fmell, and very little talte 
upon the tongue j. but, when fwaliow- 
ed, affects the throat with a fenfe of 
heatj and occafions a plentiful dis- 
charge of faliva. 

Jalap, in fubflance, taken in a dofe 
of about half a dram (lefs or more, ac- 
cording to the circumftances of the 
patient) in plethoric or cold phlegma- 
tic habits, proves an effectual, and in 
generalafafe purgative, performing its 
office mildly, feldorh dccafioning nau- 
fea or gripes, which too frequently ac- 
company the other ftrong cathartics. 
In hypochondriacal diforders, and hot 



bilious temperaments, it gripes vio- 
lently, if the jalap be good; but 
rarely takes due effect as a purge. An 
extract made by water purges almoti 
univerfally, but weakly; and at the 
fame time, has a confiderable effect by 
urine: the root remaining after this 
procefs, gripes violently. The pure 
refin prepared by fpirit of wine occa- 
fions mod violent gripings, and other 
terrible fymptoms, but fcarce proves 
at ail cathartic ; triturated with fugar, 
or with almonds into the form of an 
emulfion, or diffolved in fpirit, and 
mixed with fyrups, it purges plentifully 
in a fmall dofe, without occaiioning 
much diforder : the part of the jalap 
remaining after the feparation of the 
refin, yields towater an extract, which 
has no effect as a cathartic, but ope- 
rates powerfully by urine. 

Frederick Hoffman particularly cau- 
tions againft exhibiting this medicine 
to children, and affures us, that it will 
deftroy appetite, weaken the body, and 
perhaps occafion even death. In this 
point, this celebrated practitioner was 
probably deceived : children, whofe 
veffels are lax, and the food foft and 
lubricating, bear thefe kinds of medi- 
cines, as Geoffryobferves, better than 
adults. 

BIRCH. The fpecies of this tree are, 
i. The common Birch tree. 2. The 
Poplar-leav'd Birch tree. 3. The Ca- 
nada Birch tree. 

The common birch may be propa- 
gated either from feeds or fuckers taken 
from the roots of old trees, but the 
•feedlings make the handfomeft and 
beft-rooted plants. We fhall therefore 
firft direct their culture in that way, 
which, though one of tbehardieft and 
molt common trees our climate pro- 
duces, (of which it is a native) yet is 
it feldom fuccefsfully raifed from feeds, 
which is generally owing to too much 
covering, and which it will by no 
means bear, as the plants, when they 
nrft vegetate, are very delicate, and 
unable to force their way through any 
confiderable depth of foil ; but by ob- 
ferving the following fimple practice, 
you will procure them in abundance: 

Thefeeds of the Birch are ripe about 
the end of September or beginning of 
October, when, having gathered them 
in a fair clear day, fpread them thin on 
a loft floor till dry; after which, mix 
them with loofe fand, and kesp them 

in 



B 1 R 



B I R 



in an airy place till the beginning of 
the following March. The ground for 
fowingthem, which ought to be frelh 
and light, having been trenched or dug 
the preceding autumn, point it over a- 
gain, making it as Ioofe as poffible, and 
raking it very fine ; divide it in beds, 
three feet and a half wide ; fow the 
feeds, and clap them into the ground 
with the back of a fpade, without any 
earth thrown over them. If the weather 
is moift and mild, no further care is ne- 
ceffary ; but if. dry and frofty, which 
is often the cafe at this feafon, throw 
a little peafe haulm over the beds, for 
three or four weeks, till the feeds begin 
to vegetate, which will keep the ground 
moderately moift, and defend them 
from being injured by froft, or deltroyed 
by birds, who are very fond of them. 
About this time uncover the beds, 
keep the ground quite clean, and give 
them three or four gentle waterings a- 
bout noon, from the middle to the end 
of April, the weather being mild and 
dry ; which repeat more plentifully 
and frequently from thence till the 
middle of June, in mild evenings, when 
they will require no further attention. 

The following March, remove thefe 
plants from the feminary to the nur- 
fery, fhortening their top-roots, and 
plant them in lines, two feet and a 
half diftant, and about ten or twelve 
inches afunder in the lines ; to ftand 
two years, if the land is good, and the 
plants have grown freely ; but in poor 
thin foil, where their progrefs has been 
fmall, they may continue three years ; 
in which cafe, after the fecond year's 
growth, cut over fuch of them as are 
ieaft thriving or crooked, clofe by the 
ground, in March, which will give 
them itraighter and more vigorous 
fhoots. 

Thofe taken from the roots of old 
trees, or feedlings grubbed up from the 
woods, cannot have fo good roots or 
free fhoots as plants raifed in a clean 
well cultivated nurfery bed, and there- 
fore will of courfe require more time 
and attention to make them equally 
good trees: For this purpofe, having 
procured the plants with all the roots 
poffible, fhorten fuch of them as in- 
cline to run downward ; cut away 
fuch as are broken or bruifed, with all 
the mufty parts naturally contracted in 
t he woods for want of air ; reduce like- 
wife the tops of fuch as are too tall or 
R a 



heavy-headed, and lay them in drills 
cut down with the fpade, at the fame 
diftances directed for the feediings, in 
depth proportioned to the fize of the 
plants, the moft certain rule for which, 
in this and all other trees, is placing 
them 3S deep only as they have naturally 
flood before ; water them at planting, 
keep the ground clean, and dig between 
the lines in the fpring. Having ftood 
here two years, cut them all over by 
the ground, and let them remain two 
years longer, when they may be remo- 
ved for good. 

The fecond and third forts will bear 
our winters well enough, when mixt 
with and flickered by other plants : 
They may be propagated either by lay- 
ers or budding them on the common 
kind; but it is uncertain raifing them 
by feeds from America, which do not 
vegetate, if kept long out of the ground. 

The Birch is a handfome plant ; and 
though the wood is not amongft the 
moft valuable, yet it is ufeful for vari- 
ous purpofes j and no tree is more re- 
quired by the country peopie, for their 
houfes, or for ploughs, and otherinftru- 
ments of hufbandry.— Bouuher. 

In fome places thefe trees are tapped 
in the fpring, and the fap drawn out to 
make birch wine, which has been re- 
commended for the ftone and gravel, 
as is alfo the fap unfermented. The 
bark of the birch tree is almoft incor- 
ruptible. In Sweden the houfes are 
covered with it, where it lafts many 
years. It frequently happens, that the 
wood is entirely rotten, and the bark 
perfectly found and good. — Miller. 

The beft method of obtaining the 
fap of the birch-tree for making wine, 
&c. is to bore a hole (lanting upwards 
with a middle fized augre to a mode- 
rate depth in the tree, and to faften a 
bottle to the orifice, by which means, 
a large quantity of the fap may be 
fpeedily procured. Or many gallons 
in a day may be gathered from the 
boughs of the trees by cutting them 
off, leaving their ends fit to go into 
the mouths of the bottles, and fo by 
hanging many bottles on feveral 
boughs, the liquor will diftil into them 
very plentifully. 

The feafon for this work is from the 
end of February to the end of March, 
whilft the fap rifes, and before the 
leaves fhoot out from the tree j for 
when the fap is forward, and the leaves 
begin 



B I R 



B I R 



begin to appear, the juice by a long d'- 
geftion in the branch, grows thick and 
coloured, which before was thin and 
limpid. Nor will the fap diftil either 
in the night, or in cold weather, while 
Hhe north and eaft winds blow ; but 
very well and freely, when the fouth- 
weft winds blow, or the fun fhines 
warm. 

The liquor is befl that proceeds from 
the branches, having had a longer time 
in the tree, and thereby better digefted, 
and acquiring more of its flavour than 
if it had been extracted from the trunk. 
Mortimer s Husbandry. 

In order to have enough of this li- 
quor to fet about making wine with it, 
many trees mould be tapped at the fame 
time, fo that a fufficient quantity of 
fap may be obtained in a few days ; for 
it will not keep long, without a ten- 
dency to putrefaction. To prevent 
this, fome authors advife fetting that 
which is firft drawn in bottles, or o- 
ther proper veffels in the fun, till the 
reft be ready, and to put into it a hard 
toaft of rye-bread cut thin, to make 
it ferment. But as it is necefTary to 
mix with this jnice either fugar or 
iraifins, in order to give it a body, to 
enable it to undergo a regular fermen- 
tation, which alone can render it fit 
for keeping, and for want of which it 
is that this wine is fo apt to burft the 
bottles, into which it is put, that firft 
fermentation will certainly be found 
hurtful. When therefore the hufband- 
man has not a fufficient number of 
trees to obtain fap enough for his pur- 
pofe in two or three days, the moft ad- 
vifeable way will be to put the fap into 
very fweet veffels, and place them in 
a cool cellar; for it' will keep there 
perfectly found, for a much longer 
time, efpecially if it be covered with 
oil, or bunged up clofe. 

The proportion of fugar may be va- 
ried according to the tafte and inten- 
tion of the brewer: but, in general, a 
pound of fugar is thought to be the 
proper allowarice for a gallon of this 
liquor. The fap and fugar muft be 
thoroughly united by a heat juft fuffi- 
cient to make them boil ; but the long 
boiling, which is generally advifed, can 
anfwer no good purpofe ; on the con- 
trary, it will render the liquor lefs dif- 
pofed to ferment kindly, and likewife 
deprive it of a confiderable part of the 



peculiar fragrance and flavour of the 
tree from whence it was taken. It 
fhould therefore be carefully remem- 
bered, that the fole purpofe of boiling 
this liquor Is, to make a thorough dif- 
folution of the fugar in it. Some peo- 
ple fubftitute honey inftead of fugar ; 
in this cafe a quart of honey is eiteem- 
ed equal to a pound of fugar. With 
regard to various fpjees ordered by dif- 
ferent writers, they muft be left to the 
tafte and option of the maker. 

It is generally found neceffary in or- 
der to ferment this liquor, to put into 
it a little yeaft, a bit of dough, or a 
thin toaft of leavened bread ; after 
which it is treated in all refpefts like 
other vinous liquors. 

BIRD-GRASSjOrFowL Mr adow- 
Grass. A very excellent grafs brought 
originally from Virginia. 

BIRD-LIME, is made thus : Peel 
a good quantity of Holly-bark about 
Midfummer, fill a veffel with it, put 
fpring-water to it, boil it till the grey 
and white barks rife from the green, 
which will require twelve hours boil- 
ing; then take it off the fire, drain 
the water well from it, feparate the 
barks, lay the green bark on the earth 
in fome cool vault or cellar, covered 
with any green rank weeds, fuch as 
dock-thiftles, hemlock, &c. to a good 
thicknefs, let it lie fo fourteen days, by 
which time it will be a perfect mucilage; 
then pound it well in a ftone mortar, 
till it be a tough pafte, and till none 
of the bark be difcernible ; wafh it well 
next in fome running flream, as long 
as you perceive the leaft motes in it, 
then put it in an earthen pot to ferment, 
fcum it for four or five days as often as 
any thing arifes, and when no more 
comes, change it into a frefh earthen 
veffel, and prefci ve it for ufe, thus ; 
take what quantity you think fit, put 
it in an earthen pipkin, add a third 
part of Capon's.'or Goofe-greafe to it, 
well clarified, or oil of walnuts, Which 
is better, incorporate them on a gentle- 
fire, and ftir it continually till cold ; 
and thus it is finifhed. To prevent 
froft, take a quarter 6f as much Oil of 
petrolium, as you do greafe, and no 
cold will congeal it. The Italians 
make theirs of the berries of the mitfe- 
toe tree, heated after the fame manner, 
and mix it with nut-oil, an ounce to 
a pound of lime, and taking it from 
■ the 



B I R 



B I R 



the fire ,add half an ounce of turpentine, 
which qualifies it alio for the water : 
great quantities of birdlime are brought 
from Damafcus, fuppofed to be made 
of febeftens, becaufe we fometimes 
find the kernels; but it is fubjedt to 
froft, impatient of wet, and will not 
laft above a year or two good : There 
comes of it alfo from Spain, which 
refifts water, but is of an ill fcent. It 
is faid the bark of our Lantona, or 
way-faring fhrub, will make as good 
bird-lime as any. 

BIRD CHERRY. [In Scotland called 
the Hagberry.} Though in catalogues, 
this is placed in the third or loweft 
growing clafs of trees, that is, from 
fifteen to thirty feet high, yet it is 
fometimes raifed above forty feet, and 
Mr. Boutcher tells us, he has frequent- 
ly raifed them above thirty feet, at fix- 
teen years old. It is a plant of extra- 
ordinary beauty when in bloom, the 
•blofibms being fo thick as to cover the 
leaves, when the whole tree is as white 
as fnow, and has an admirable effeft 
amongft other flowering plants. 

It grows freely from cuttings, which 
ought to be planted in February, in a 
fhady border, in drills cut_ down with 
the fpade, about eight inches deep, and 
two buds of the cutting left above 
ground; let the lines he two feet dif- 
tant, and the plants nine or ten inches 
in the line ; where keeping them clear 
of weeds, and digging the ground be- 
tween them, they may continue two 
years. After that time, remove them to 
another fpot, cutting away the fuper- 
fluous rows and branches, and plant 
them in lines, three and a half feet dif- 
tant, and eighteen inches afunrierin the 
line; clean and dig the ground as be- 
fore, and let them remain two or three 
years longer, when they will be of pro- 
per fize to plant where they are to re- 
main. 

This plant is extremely hardy, and 
will grow in almoftany foil, but chief- 
ly affecfs a deep, moirt, feeding mould, 
where it will make great advances 
fuddenly. The wood of it is ufeful 
for many different purpofes in huf- 
bandry. 

BIRDSNEST. See Wild Carrot. 

BIRDS of the Warren, are pheafants 
and partridges. 

BIRDSFOOT. [Ormthopui.] The 
fpecies are, i. Birdsfoot with winged 
Jeaves, and comprefied pods a little 



arehed. a. Birdsfoot with the winged 
leaves and pods growing in clufters 
upon footftalks. 3. Birdsfoot with 
linear winged leaves, and compreffed 
arched pods growing in pairs. 4. Birds- 
foot with trifoliate leaves fitting clofe 
to the ftalk, having appendages, and 
the middle lobe very large. The fe- 
cond fort is common in England, the 
others are natives of Spain and Italy. 

Thefe plants are propagated by fow- 
ing their feeds in the fpring upon a bed 
of light frefh earth, where they are to 
remain, (for they feldomdo well when 
they are tranfplanted) and when the 
plants come up, they mull be care- 
fully cleared from weeds, and where 
they are too clofe, fome of the plants 
fhould be pulled out, fo as to leave the 
remaining ones about ten inches afun- 
der. In June thefo plants will flower, 
and the feeds will ripen in Auguff. 
There is no great beauty in thefe plants, 
but, for the variety of their jointed 
pods, they are preferved by fome cu- 
rious perfons in their pleafure-gardens, 
where, if their feeds arefown in patches 
in the borders, each fort diitincHy by 
itfelf, and the plants thinned, leaving 
only two at each patch, they will re- 
quire no farther care, and will add to 
the variety, efpecially where the fnaii 
and caterpillar plants are preferved, 
which aie ver.y proper to intermix 
with them. They are moll of them 
annual plants, which perifh foon after 
the feeds are ripe.- 

BIRDSFOOT TREFOIL. [Lotus) 
A genus of plants producing papilio- 
naceous flowers ; the (landard is round- 
i/h, bent backward with an oblong 
concave unguis ; the wings are broad, 
roundi/h, and fhoiter than the iland- 
ard, clofmg together at the top ; the 
keel is gibbous underneath, and fhut 
above; the fruit is a cylindric pod, 
confuting of two valves, having many 
tranfverfe partitions, in each of which 
is placed a roundifh feed. Ail the forts, 
cf which there are many, as well na- 
tives of England as of the Iflands of 
Sicily, Crete, and the fouthern parts 
of France and Italy, are propagated 
by feeds fown on a bed of light earth 
in the fpring. 

BIRD-PEPPER. A fpecies of Cap- 
ficum. 

BIRTHWORT. [AriJlolcchia~\ The 
fpecies are round, lone, and flender j 
they are natives of Italy, Spain, and 

the 



BIS 



BIS 



the fouthern parts of France; they 
are propagated b> feeds, which fhould 
be fown in the autumn, in pots Ailed 
with light earth, and placed under a 
frame to be fkreened from the froft. 
If tliefe pors are put into a gentle hot- 
bed in March, it will bring up the 
plants mucn fooner than they other- 
wile would rife. When the plants 
come up, they fhould be inured by de- 
grees to bear the open air ; in fummer 
they muft have gentle refreshings of 
water in dry weather, but in the au- 
tumn, when their (talks begin to decay, 
they mull have little wet : in the win- 
ter the pots muft be Sheltered under a 
frame, and in March, before the roots 
begin to fhoot, they fhould be tranf- 
planted into feparate fmall pots filled 
with light earth, when they may be re- 
moved into the open air, and treated 
in the fame manner as in the former 
fummer, and Sheltered alfo the follow- 
ing winter. The next fpring they may 
be turned out of the pots, and planted 
in a warm border; where, in the au- 
tumn, when their ftalks are decayed, 
if the border is covered with old tan- 
ners bark to keep out the fron, the 
roots will be fecured ; but where this 
care is not taken, the roots are fre- 
quently killed by froft. 

The fmsll of the roots is fomething 
aromatic, their tafte warm and bit- 
terifh. Authors in general reprelent 
them as extremely hot and pungent : 
fome fay they are the hotteft of all the 
aromatic plants ; but as ufuaily met 
with in the Shops, they have no great 
pungency. The long and round forts, 
on being firft chewed, Scarce difcover 
any tafte, but in a little time prove 
naufeouSly bitterifh ; the long Some- 
what the leaft fo. The other fort in- 
itantly fills the mouth with an aroma- 
tic bitternefs which is net ungrateful. 
Their medical virtues are, to heat, Sti- 
mulate, attenuate vifcid phlegm, and 
promote the fluid fecretions in general : 
thev are principally celebrated in fup- 
preSTions of female evacuations. The 
dofe in fubftance is from a fcruple to 
two drams. The long fort is recom- 
mended externally for cleanfmg and 
drying wounds and ulcers, and in cu- 
taneous difeafes. 

BISANNUAL. A name given to 
fuch plants as do not flower till thefe- 
ooml year. 

BISERRULA. An annual plant 



which grows naturally in Italy, Siciiy, 
and Spain. It fends out many angular 
ftalks, which trail on the ground, and 
are fub-divided into many branches, 
garnifhed with long winged leaves, 
compofed of many pairs of lobes, and 
terminated with an o.!d one ; toward 
the upper part of the .branches come 
out the pedicle of the flowers, which 
fuftain Several fmall butterfly flowers, 
of a purplish colour, collec"ted together, 
and are Succeeded by plain pods, in- 
dented on both fides the whole length, 
containing two rows of kidney-Shaped 
feeds. 

It is propagated by feeds, which in 
this country fhould be fown in the au- 
tumn, on a bed of light earth, where 
the plants are to remain, for they will 
live in the open air very well. When 
the plants are come up, they will re- 
quire no other care; but where they 
are too near they fhould be thinned to 
about a foot distance from each other. 
It flowers in June, and the feeds ripen 
in September. 

BISHOP1NG, a cant term made 
ufe of by horfe-jockies, implying the 
unfair practices they make ufe of to /• 
conceal th e age of an old horfe, or the * ^ 
ill properties of - a bad one. 

BISHOP'S WEED [Amnn] There are 
two fpecies, one an annual, the other a 
perennial, both which may be propa- 
gated by feeds, which Should be fown 
in the autumn. Thefe feeds fupply 
the place of the true feeds which are 
brought from Egypt. 

BISTORT. [Bijlorta] Snakeweed. 
This plant grows wild in -TioiSt mea- 
dows, in feveral parts of England ; but 
is not very common about London. 
The root is about the thicknefs of the 
little finger, of a blackifh brown co- 
lour on the outfide, and reddifh with- 
in : it is writhed or bent vernacularly 
(whence the name of the plant) with 
a joint at each bending, and full of 
hufhy fibres ; the root of the fpecies 
here intended has for the molt part 
only one or two bendings ; the others 
have three or more. All the parts of 
biltort have a rough auftere tafte, par- 
ticularly the root, which is one of the 
ftrongelt of the vegetable aftringents. 
It is employed in all kinds of immo- 
derate haemorrhages and other fluxes, 
both internally and externally, where 
aftringency is the only indication. It 
is certainly 3 very powerful ftyptic, 

and 



b r t 



B L A 



and Is to be looked on fimply as fuch : 
the fudorific, antipeftilential, and other 
like virtues attributed to it, have no 
foundation. The largeft dofe of the 
root in powder is one dram. 

BIT. The iron part of the bridle 
which goes into a horfe's mouth; alfo 
the iron part of a piercer, auger, &c. 
BITTER APPLE. {CtfayntMs} A 
fpecies of gourd, growing in Barbary. 
The fruit is about the fize of an orange ; 
its medullary part, freed from the rind 
and feeds, is alone made ufe of in me- 
dicine : this is very light, white, fpon- 
gy, compofed of membranous leaves : 
of an extremely bitter, naufeous, a- 
crimonious tafte. Colocynth is one 
of the moft powerful and molt violent 
cathartics. Many eminent phyficians 
condemn it as dangerous and deleteri- 
ous : others recommend it not only as 
an efficacious purt>-,tive, but likewife as 
an alterative in obft nate chronical dif- 
orders. Thuj much is certain, that 
colocynth, in the dofe of a few grains, 
a£ts with great vehemence, diforders 
the body, and fometimes occafions a 
difcharge of blood. Many attempts 
have been made tocorrecl: its virulence 
by the addition of acids, altringents, 
and the like : thefe may leffen the force 
of the colocynth, but no otherwife than 
might be equally done by the reduction 
of the dofe. The only method of a- 
bating its virulence, without diminish- 
ing its purgative virtue, is to enlarge 
its volume, by triturating it with fu- 
gar, teftaceous fubftances, or the like, 
which, without making any alteration 
in the colocynth itfelf, prevent its re- 
linous particles from cohering, and 
sticking upon the membranes of the 
inteftines f© as to irritate, inflame, or 
corrode them. 

BITTERSWEET. [Dulcamara] A 
fpecies of night-fhade. 

BITTERVETCH. [Oroias] There 
arefeveral fpecies of this plant natives 
of different countries; they may all be 
propagated by. feeds fown in. autumn; 
three forts brought from La,Vera Cruz, 
mull be kept in a ftove, elfe they will 
not bear the cold of England. Thefceds 
of the orobus were recommended in 
nephritic cemphints, but are not uftd 
in the preient practice, . :::. J 

BITTERWORT. See Gentian.. 

BLACK. A colour. 

BLACK BRYONY, [fcu] Grows 
'-vild in the hedges in many parts of 



BLACK BERRY. [Rufas Frutkofu{\ 
The common Bramble j ic grews on the 
fides of banks, and in hedges, in moft 
parts of England, fo is not cultivated 
in gardens ; this is fo well known as 
to need no delcription. Of this there 
are the following varieties : 

i. The common bramble with white 
fruit, which was found in a hedge near 
Oxford by Mr. Jacob Bobart. The 
branches of this fo.t are covered with 
a light gretn bark ; the leaves are of a 
brighter green than the common fort, 
and the fruit is white, but it feldona 
produces fruit in gardens. 

2.. The bramble without thorns j 
this is in every refpect like the firft, 
but the branches and footftalks have 
no thorns. 

3. The bramble with elegant cut 
leaves ; this differs from the nrft, by 
having the leaves more finely cut. 

4. The bramble with double flow- 
ers ; this differs from the firft in hav- 
ing very double flowers, fo is frequent- 
ly planted in gardens for ornament. 

5. The bramble with variegated 
leaves ; this is by fome preferved in 
gardens, but it is very apt to become 
plain, if planted in good ground. 

Thefe forts are eaJily propagated by 
laying down their branches, which 
will put out roots at every joint very 
free'y. They may be tranfplanted any 
time from September to March, and 
will grow in almoft any foil or fitua- 
tion . 

BLACK GRASS. A fpecies of 
grafs originally brought from Ame- 
rica, and now pretty generally known 
in England. It principally delights in 
chalky ground, or where the land has 
been chalked. 

BLACKLEGS. A difeafe in fheep 
called fo in fome countries; in others 
JVood-E'vil. It is a difeafe in the joints 
fimilar to the fcrophula ; a jelly is 
formed in the joints, and fettles in the 
legs, and often in the neck, between 
the lkin and fkfh. Bathe the parts with 
oil and vinegar; give the fheep a large 
fpoonful of the juice, of cinque-foil. 
If it artacks the bowels, it is fatal. 

BLACK OATS. See Oats. 

ELACK THORN, or Sloe Tree. 
[Prurus fjk^flris] This is very common 
in hedges almoft every where, and be- 
ing quick of growth is very r>roper_ 
for fences. J'cxl flcctf/a. GSlotct/f/ca. 
• BLADDER- NUT. [S.-.jthiaa] There 



B L A 



B L A 



are two forts of bladder-nut, one a 
native of England, the other of North 
America ; they are propagated by feeds, 
layers, or cuttings. 

African Bladder- nut. [Royena] 
The fpecies are, i. Royena with oval 
rough leaves. 2. With fmooth fpear- 
fliaped leaves, and, 3. With hairy, 
fpear-fhaped leaves, 

Thefe plants are too tender to live 
through the winter in the open air in 
England, therefore they muft be re- 
moved into the green -houfe in autumn, 
and treated in the fame way as orange- 
trees, with which culture the plants 
will thrive. 

The firft and third forts are difficult 
to propagate here, for the branches 
which are laid down feldom put out 
roots, and thofe which do, are two 
years before they will have made roots 
fufficient to tranfplant, and their cut- 
tings very rarely fucceed ; thefe are the 
only methods by which they can be in- 
creafed in thofe countries where they 
do not produce feeds. The beft time 
to plant the cuttings is in September; 
thefe mould be planted in fmall pots, 
and plunged into a very moderate hot- 
bed. The pots fhould be clofely co- 
vered down with hand-glaffes to ex- 
clude the external air, and the cuttings 
refrefhed with a little water every eighth 
or tenth day, according as the earth 
becomes dry, for much moifture will 
kill them. If the cuttings moot, they 
muft be gradually inured to bear the 
open air, and when they are well rooted, 
they mould be each planted in a fepa- 
rate fmall pot, and afterwards treated 
as the old plants. 

If the plants put out any young 
fhoots from the bottom, they fhould 
be carefully laid down in the ground 
while young, becaufe when the fhoots 
are tender they are more apt to put out 
roots than after they are become woody 
and hard ; thefe branches fhould be flit 
in the fame manner as is prattifed in 
laying of carnations; they muft be 
frequently, but gently watered, during 
• the warm weather in fummer, but in 
cold -weather it muft be fparingly given 
them; "when thefe are rooted, they 
may be taken off, and treated in the 
lame way as the cuttings. 

The fecond fort is very apt to fend 
*vp fuckers from the roots, which may 
be taken off with the roots, and there- 
by increafed ; or thofe which do not 



put out roots, may be laid down In the 
fame manner as the former; and the 
cuttings of this more frequently fuc- 
ceed than thofe of the other, fo that 
this fort is much eafier propagated. 

BLADDER SENA. [Colutea] The 
forts are : 1. Common bladder fena. 2. 
Shrubby bladder fena, with oval leaves 
entire. 3. Eaftern bladder fena, with 
blood-colourtd flowers. 4. Ethioiean 
bladder fena, with a fcarlet flower. 
5. American. 6. African. 7. Bladder 
fena with trailing ftalks, and oval, 
narrow, woolly leaves. 

The three firft forts are hardy fhrubs, 
and bear the open air very well ; thefe 
are propagated by fowing the feeds in 
the fpring, and when the plants come 
up are to be kept free from weeds, 
and at Michaelmas tranfplanted into 
nurfery rows, or where they are to re- 
main. 

The other forts are more tender, and 
require to be fheltcred in the winter ; 
the feeds fhould befown on a moderate 
hot-bed, and when the plants come 
up, fhould gradually be brought to the 
open air. 

BLADE. The fhoots of corn or 
grafs. 

BLAIN. Is adiftemper that befals 
the tongues of beafts, being a certain 
bladder growing above on the root of 
the tongue againft the pipe, which 
grief at length in fwelling will ftop the 
wind, and comes at firft by fome great 
chafing and heating of the ftomach, 
whereby, as fome judge, it ftill grows 
and increafes by more heat, for com- 
monly it comes in the fummer, and 
not in the winter; for when the beaft 
is hot and has been chafed, it will rife 
and fwell full of wind and water, fo 
that when it is full and grown big, it 
will ftop the- beaft's wind, which may 
be perceived by his gaping and holding 
out his tongue, and foaming at the 
mouth, for the curing of which, 1. 
Caft him and take forth his tongue, then 
flitting the bladder, or breaking it 
thereon, foftly wafh it with vinegar 
and a little fait. 2. Others prick them 
(for fome beafts will have many of 
them under their tongues) with an awl, 
if you have no other tool ; then chafe 
them fo with your hand as to break 
them all. 

BLANQUET. A fpecies of pear. 

BLAZE, A white mark in a horfe'6 
face, 

BLEA. 



B L E 



B L I 






BLEA, that part of a tree which 
lies immediately under the bark, or 
between that and the hard wood, and 
is the firfl progrefs of the alteration 
of the bark into wood, by the natu- 
ral growth, and ftrengthening of the 
fibres. 

BLEEDING, an operation frequent- 
ly neceffary among all kinds of cattle, 
particularly horfes; and confifts in o- 
pening a vein by means of an inftru- 
ment called a fleam. 

But the cafes that require bleeding 
moft, are colds, fevers of almoft all 
kinds, falls, and bruifes, which are 
fometimes dangerous to horfes, becaule 
of their great weight. Hurts and 
wounds of the eyes, if rains in hard ri- 
ding, or drawing, and all other acci- 
dents where a ftagnation of the blood' 
may be fuddenly expected, or where 
the fmall veflels may be broke, and the 
blood extravaiated. 

BLEMISH, a mark of deformity; 
a fault, a diminution of beauty. 

BLENDWATER, a difeafe in cat- 
tle, when they pifs bloody corrupted 
urine, which has often a fatal event af- 
ter the yellows; if after change of 
pafture only, it is not fo dangerous. 
Take caftile foap, bole armenic, and 
oak bark in powder, each half an ounce, 
make into a ball with honey, and give 
night and morning. 

BLEYME, an inflammation in a 
horfe's foot, the blood putrefying in 
the inner part of the coffin towards 
the heel, between the fole and the cof- 
fin bone. 

To know when there is a bleyme, 
j ou muft unfhoe the difordered horfe, 
a nd pare his foot very neatly. Upon 
one of the inner quarters, near the 
fi og, you will fee a red fpot, like cor- 
rnpted blood, which will fometimes 
bleed with the very paring. This is a 
fign that the bleyme is very violent, 
and let fuch a horfe work ever fo little, 
elpecially if it be in fummer, he be- 
comes lame : But keep him fome time 
idle in the ftable, and he will not limp, 
unlefs he has been newly mod. Few 
oil horfes are fubject to this accident: 
Nor is the cafe very dangerous, when 
vinbleas here defcirbed: But when it 
is fo forward, that you can hardly fee 
it, and has no room outwardly, you 
mi ft divide the fide of the hoof, agree- 
able to what was before faid. Many 
fan iers pretend to cure a bleyme by pa- 



ring the hoof, and digging it down 
with their buttrefs; applying after- 
wards certain remedies to prevent an 
inflammation that may enfue. Mr. 
Brindiey fays, that a horfe, after this ce- 
remony, may feem to be relieved for the 
prefent ; but when he has continued 
fome time without being fhod, he be- 
gins to limp again; and let him work 
ever fo little, the bleyme is as bad as be- 
fore. There have been people fo igno- 
rant as to unfole a horfe in this cafe, 
without operating on the feat of the 
bleyme; but in fuch a horfe too the 
bleyme foon grows as violent as ever : 
Whereas the following remedy is infal- 
lible, and will make a perfect cure : 

Take cow-dung, pork-fat, turpen- 
tine, and rofin, of each half a pound ; 
a quarter of a pound of linfeed, and 
half a pint of oil, of any fort you can 
get; melt the whole together in a pot, 
and apply fome of this compofition, 
as warm as he can bear it, to the horfe* s 
foot, binding it on with tow andfplin- 
ters. Repeat this every twenty-four 
hours till the horfe limps no longer, 
which probably may be twelve days or 
a fortnight. You will then never fee 
any more of the bleyme. — Bnndley. 

BLIGHT, a general name for va- 
rious diftempers incident both to corn -> 
and fruit trees. Sec /3/a *> 'tf^C? '~ 

There is nothing fo deftructive to a 
fruit-garden as blights : nor is there 
any thing in the buimefs of gardening 
which requires more of our ferious at- 
tention, than the endeavouring to pre- 
vent or guard againft this great enemy 
of gardens. 

In order, therefore, to remedy this 
evil, it will be necertary firft to under- 
ftand the true caufes of blights; and, 
although many curious perfons have 
attempted to explain the caufes of them, 
yet very few of them have yet come 
near the truth, except the reverend and 
learned Dr. Hales, who hath, in his 
curious book, intitled, Vegetable Sta- 
tics, given us fome accurate experi- 
ments upon the growth and perfpira- 
tion of plants ; together with the va- 
rious effects the air has upon vegeta- 
bles; fo that, by carefully attending 
thereto, together with diligent obfer- 
vations, we need feldom be at a lofs 
how to account for the caufes of blights, 
whenever they may happen. 

Blights are often caufed by a conti- 
nued eafterly wind, for feveral days to- 
S gether, 






B L I 



B L I 



gether, without the intervention of 
fhowers or any morning dew, by which 
the perfpiration of the tender bloffoms 
is (topped j fo that, in a fhort time, 
theircolour is changed, and they wither 
and decay : and if it fo happens, that 
there is a long continuance of the fame 
weather, it equally affects their tender 
leaves ; for their perfpiring matter is 
hereby thickened, and rendered gluti- 
nous, clofely adhering to the furfaces of 
the leaves, and becomes a proper nu- 
triment to thofe fmall infects, which 
are always found preying upon the 
leaves and tender branches of fruit- 
trees, whenever this blight happens. 

The bell remedy for this diftemper 
that I have yet known to fucceed, is, 
to gently wafh and fprinkle over the 
trees, from time to time, with com- 
mon water, (that is, fuch as hath not 
had any thing fteeped in it) and the 
fooner this is performed (wheneverwe 
apprehend danger) the better ; and if 
the young and tender fhoots feem to 
be much infected, wafh them with a 
woollen cloth, fo as to clear them, if 
poffible, from all this glutinous mat- 
ter, that their refpiration and perfpi- 
ration may not be obftru&ed ; and if 
we place fame broad flat pans or tubs 
of water near the trees, that the va- 
pours exhaled from it may be received 
by the trees, it will keep their tender 
parts in a dutfile ftate, and greatly 
help them ; but, whenever this opera- 
tion of warning the trees is performed, 
it fhould be early in the day, that the 
moifture may be exhaled before the 
cold of the night comes on ; efpecially 
if the nights are frofty : nor fhould it 
be done when the fun mines very hot 
•upon the wall, which would befubject 
to fcorch up the tender bloffoms. 

Another caufe of blights in the 
fpring is, fharp hoary frolts, which are 
often fucceeded by hot funfhine in the 
day-time ; which is the moft fudden 
and certain deftroyer of fruits that is 
known : for the cold of the night 
ftarves the tender parts of the blof- 
foms, and the fun rifing fun hot upon 
the walls before the moifture is dried 
from the bloffoms (which being in 
fmall globules, collects the rays of the 
fun) a fcalding heat is thereby acqui- 
red, which fcorches the tender flowers, 
and other parts of the plants. 

But there is another fort of blight, 
sgainft which it is very difficult to 



guard our fruit-trees ; this is fharp 
pinching frofty mornings, which often 
happen at the time when the trees are 
in flower, or while the fruit is very 
young, and occafion the bloffoms or 
fruit to drop off} and, fometimes, the 
tendsr parts of the fhoots and leaves 
are greatly injured thereby. 

The only method yet found out t» 
prevent this mifchief, is by carefully 
covering the walls, either with mats, 
canvas, reeds, Sec. which being faftened 
fo as not to bedifturbed with the wind, 
and fuffered to remain on during the 
night, by taking them off every day, 
if the weather permits, is the beft and 
fureft method that hath yet been ufed 
in this cafe; which, although it has 
been flighted, and thought of little 
fervice by fome, yet the reafon of their 
not being fo ferviceable, as has been 
expected, was, becaufe they have not 
been rightly uied, by fuffering the trees 
to remain too long covered : by which 
means, the younger branches and leaves 
have been rendered too weak to endure 
the open air, when they are expofed to 
it; which has often proved of worfe 
confequence to trees, than if they had 
remained entirely uncovered. 

Whereas, when the covering before 
mentioned has been performed, as it 
ought to be, it has proved very fervics- 
able to fruits ; and many times, when 
there has been almolt a general de- 
ftruction of fruits, in the neighbour- 
ing gardens, there has been a plenty 
of them in fuch places where they have 
been covered ; and, though it may to 
fome feem very great trouble, yet, if 
thefe coverings are fixed near the up- 
per part of the wall, and are faftened 
to pullies, fo as to be drawn up, or let 
down, it will be foon andeafily done; 
and the fuccefs will fufficiently pay the 
trouble. 

But there is another fort of blight, 
that fometimes comes later in the fpring, 
viz. in April or May, which is often 
very deftructive to orchards, and open 
plantations, againft which we know no 
remedy. This is what is called a fire- 
blaft, which, in a few hours, hath not 
only deflroyed the fruit and leaves, hut 
many times parts of trees, and, fome- 
times, whole ones have been killedby it. 
This is fuppofed to be effected by vo- 
lumes of tranfparent flying vapours, 
which, among many forms they revolve 
into, may fometimes approach fo near 



B L I 



B L I 



*o a hemlfphere, or hemi-cylinder, ei- 
ther in their upper or lower furfaces, 
as thereby to make the beams of the 
fun converge enough to fcorch the 
plants or trees they fall upon, in pro- 
portion to the greater or lefs conver- 
gency of the fun's rays. 

The learned Boerhaave, in his The- 
ory of Chemiftry, obferves, that thofe 
white clouds, which appear in fummer 
time, are, as it were, fo many mir- 
rors, and occafion excemve heat ; thefe 
mirrors are fometimes round, fome- 
times concave, polygonous, &c. and 
therefore when the face of the hea- 
vens is covered withfuch whiteclouds. 
the fun, mining among them, mult of 
necefiity produce a vehement heat; 
fince many of his rays, which would 
otherwife, perhaps, never touch our 
earth, are by that means reflected to 
us; thus, if the fun be on one fide, 
and the clouds on the oppofite, they 
will be perfectly burning glafles. 

I have fometimes, continues he, ob- 
ferved a kind of hollow clouds, full of 
hail and fnow in this pofition ; during 
the continuance of which, the heat 
was extreme; fince by fuch condenfa- 
tion they were enabled to reflect more 
ftrongly : after this came a fharp cold, 
and then the clouds difcharged their 
hail in great quantities ; to which fuc- 
ceeded a moderate warmth. Frozen 
concave clouds therefore, by this great 
reflection, produce a vigorous heat ; 
and the fame, when refolved, exceffive 
cold. Whence, as Dr. Hales obferves, 
we fee, that blafts may be occafioned 
by the reflections of the clouds, as well 
as by the above-mentioned refraction 
of denfe tranfparent vapours. 

Againft this enemy to fruits, &c. as 
has already been obferved, there is no 
guard t© our plantations, nor any re- 
medy to cure it : but as this more fre- 
quently happens in clofe plantations 
(where the ftagnating vapours from 
the earth, and the plentiful perfpira- 
tion from the trees, are pent in for 
want of a free air to diflipate and dif- 
pel them ; which are often obferved, 
in ftill weather, to afcendin fo plenti- 
ful a manner, as to be feen by the 
naked eye, but efpecially with a re- 
flecting telefcope, fo as to make a clear 
and diftinct object become dim and tre- 
mulous) than thofe which are planted 
at a greater diftance, or are not fur- 
rounded with hills or woods ; this di- 



rects us in the firft planting of orchards, 
&c. that we mould allow a greater dif- 
tance between the trees ; and make 
choice of clear healthy fituations, that 
the air may pafs freely between the 
trees, to diflipate thofe vapours before 
they are formed into fuch volumes, 
whereby the circumambient air will 
be clear, and lefs fubjeft to injuries: 
as alfo the fruits, which are produced 
in this clearer air, will be much better 
tafled than thofe that are furrounded 
with a thick rancid air; for, as fruits 
are often in a refpiring ftate, fo they, 
confequently, by imbibing a part of 
thefe vapours, are rendered crude, and 
iil-tafted ; which is often the cafe with 
a great part of our fruits in England. 
Miller. 

*Tis obfervable, that after a wet 
fummer, corn is apt to be blighted ; the 
reafon of which is, that the overmuch 
moifture that lies continually at the 
roots of the corn, maketh it run much 
to ftraw, and little to corn ; and at fuch 
time as the cornfhould kern, themoift 
vapours, exhaled by the fun from the 
wet ground, do in the nature of a mill- 
dew, prevent the due growth of the 
grain in the ear. 

'Tis obferved, that when thefe mill- 
dews arife, or blights fall, they infect 
one fort of grain generally, as fome- 
times only wheat, fometimes oats, &c. 
the like happens among fruits; fome- 
times apples are generally blafted ; 
fometimes only pears, fometimes only 
cherries, walnuts, filberts, plumbs, &c. 
Mortimer. 

Wheat is blighted at two feafons ; 
firft, when in the bloflbm; and then 
its generation is prevented and many 
of the hufks are empty in the ear, the 
grains not being impregnated. 

Secondly, Wheat is blighted, when 
the grains are brought to the time of 
their maturity, but are light, and of 
little value for making of bread ; be- 
caufe they are not well filled with flour. 

The firft cannot happen in England 
by the froft, becaufe the winters do 
not fuffer it to grow fo much, as to 
come into bloflbm before the month 
of June ; but they are long continual 
rains that rot or chill the bloflbms, 
and prevent their fertility. Yet this 
is what feldom happens to any great 
degree. Wheat that grows in open 
fields has fome advantage from the 
wind, that diflodges the water fooner 
S a from 



B L I 



B L I 



from the ears, than it can do in fheltry 
places ; and lammas wheat does not 
hold the drops of rain fo long as the 
bearded (or cone) wheat, which recei- 
ve3"very great damage by this fort of 
blight in the year 1725, the like never 
having been heard of before. 

The fecond fort of blight, viz. from 
light ears, is that which is mo(t fre- 
quent, and more general : This brings 
the greatert fcarcity of wheat. The 
caufe is plainly want of nouriihment to 
perfect the grain, by whatever means 
that want is occafioned. 

Several accidents kill the plants, or 
injure their health, and then the grains 
are not filled; as lightning, the effects 
whereof may be obferved by the black- 
ifh fpots and patches in fields of wheat, 
efpecially in fuch years as have more 
of it than ufual. Againft this there is 
no defence. 

The other caufes of the blight, which 
are moft general, and do the moil da- 
mage, may, in fome meafure, be pre- 
vented. 

One caufe is the lodging or falling 
of corn; for then the flalks are bro- 
ken near the ground, whereby many 
of the veffels are fo preffed, that the 
juices cannot pafs them ; and then the 
free circulation is hindred; the chyle 
cannot mount in fufficient quantity 
to be purified, and turned into fap ; 
the defect whereof makes the plants 
become languid, and only juft able to 
live ; they have flrength enough to 
linger on to the time of their period, 
as in very old age, but not to bring 
their fruit, which is the grain, to its 
natural bulk, nor to fill it with flour: 
and the fooner the italks fall, the lefs 
and thinner the grain will be. 

Hence it often happens, that when 
tillage, dung, and good land, have 
brought a crop of wheat, that in the 
months of April and May promife to 
yield the owner five or fix quarters on 
an acre, then in June it falls down, 
and fcarce affords five or fix bufhels ; 
and that perhaps is fo thin and lank, 
that theexpence of reaping and threfh- 
ing it may overbalance its value. 

That the falling down of wheat does 
caufe the ruin of the crop, is well- 
known ; but what caufes it to fall, is 
not fo plain. And without knowing 
the true caufes, 'tis notlikely that a re- 
medy fhouldbe found againft the difeafe. 
I take this weaknefs of the flalks,which 



occasions their falling, to proceed from 
want of nourishment, want of air, 
want of the fun's rays, or of all three. 
One argument, that it lodges for 
want of nourishment, is, that a rich 
acre has maintained a crop of five 
quarters flanding, when another poor- 
er acre was not able to fupport a crop 
from falling, which was but large e- 
nough to have brought three quarters, 
if it had flood ; and this in the fame 
year, and on the fame fituation : And 
'tis very plain, that if one acre was 
twice as rich as the other, it mult be 
able to nourifh five quarters better 
than the other could nourifh three 
quarters. 

Air is neceffary to the life and health 
of all plants, tho' in very different de- 
grees : Aquatics, which live under wa- 
ter, are content with as little air, as 
their companions the fifhes. 

But wheat, being a terrtftrial plant, 
(tho' in winter it will live many days 
under water, whilft the flow motion of 
its fap gives it little or no increafe) re- 
quires a free open air, and does not 
fucceed fo well in low fheltry places, 
as upon higher and opener fituations ; 
where the air has a greater motion, and 
can moreeafily carry off the recrements 
from the leaves, after it has fhaken off 
the dews and rains, which would o- 
therwife fuffocate the plants; and 
therefore the leaves are made fo fufcep- 
tible of motion from the air, which 
frees them from the dews, that would 
flop in the recrements at the veficulje 
of the leaves, but fhaken down will 
nourifh the plants at the roots: The 
want of this motion weakening the 
wheat, 'tis (as animals in the like fickly 
cafe are) the more unable to ftand, and 
the more liable to be preffed down by 
the weight of rain-water, and more 
unable to rife up again when down : 
all which evils are removed by the 
free motion of the air, which (hakes 
off both dews and rains, and thus 
contributes to prevent the falling (or 
lodging) of wheat. 

A great quantity alfo of the fun's 
rays is neceffary to keep wheat ftrong, 
and in health ; and in Egypt, and other 
hot countries, it is not fo apt to fall, 
asitiswhenfownin northern climates, 
tho' the produce of the fouth be the 
greateft. This proves that the crop 
doth not lodge on account of its big- 
nefs. 



B L I 



B L I 



It may be obferved, that every leaf 
is inferted into a fort of knot, which 
probably delivers the fap to be depu- 
rated at the veficulae of the leaves, and 
then receives it back again for the 
nourifhment of the plant, doing for 
that purpofe the office of an heart : 
but the fun with his rays fupplies the 
part of pulfe, to keep the fap in mo- 
tion, and carry on its circulation, in- 
ftead of the heart's fyftole and diaf- 
tole. Wheat, being doubtlefs origi- 
nally a native of a hot country, re- 
quires by its conftitution a considera- 
ble degree of heat to bring it to per- 
fection; and if much of that degree be 
wanting, the wheat will be the weak- 
er; and when the folar rays cannot 
reach the lower parts of the ftalks, the 
lowtft leaves and knots cannot do their 
®ffice ; for which reafon the chyle muft 
mount higher before it be made into 
fap, and there muft be then a greater 
mixture of crude chyle next to the 
ground, as by the white colour it ap- 
pears. By this means that part, which, 
if it had a due fhare of the fun's in- 
fluence, would be hardened like a bone 
or fpring, for the fupport of the ftalks, 
for lack of that, becomes more like 
to a cartilage, foft and weak, unable 
to fuftain the weight of the bending 
ear, which, having its greateft impetus 
againft this part, which is moft feeble 
to relift it, it yields, and lets it fall 
to the ground ; and then the grain will 
be blighted. 

There is alfo another caufe of the 
blight; and that is, the wheat's co- 
ming too late into bloflbm. The ufual 
time is the beginning of June; and if 
it be later, the days fhorten fo-faft after 
the folftice, that the autumn ot the 
year haftening the autumn of the 
wheat's life, the full time of its preg- 
nancy is not accomplifhed; and then 
its fruit, which is the grain, becomes 
as it were abortive, and not full-grown. 
This time betwixt the generation, 
blofToming, and maturity of the grain, 
is, or ought to be, about two months. 
Therefore it is advantageous to haf- 
ten, what we can, the time of blof- 
foming, and to protradt the time of 
ripening : and it is obferved, that the 
earlieft fown wheat generally efcapes 
the blight the beft, becaufe it comes 
firft into blorTom. 

Feeding down the wheat with fheep 
prevents the blight, by doing what the 



blight would do, if the wheat fell down, 
:. e. caufes the ears to be light.* 

And we find, that thofe who prac- 
tife this method of feeding their wheat 
with Iheep in the fpring, to prevent 
the lodging of it, have moft commonly 
their ftraw weak, and ears light. 

Thefe, inftead of making the ftalks 
ftrong enough to fupport heavy ears, 
make the ears light enough to be fup- 
ported by weak ftalks. They know 
that heavy ears make the greateft crop 5 
and yet they ftill hope to have it from 
light ones. 

They caufe the blight by the very 
means they make ufe of to cure it. 

This feeding of wheat much retards 
the time of its blofToming; and that 
it may bloffom early, is one chief end 
of fowingit early, to prevent the blight. 
But when it is fed, what the plants 
fend up next is but a fort of fecond or 
latter crop, which has longer to ftand 
than the firft would have required, and 
is always weaker than the firft crop 
would have been ; and the longer time 
it has to continue on the ground, the 
more nourifhment is required to main- 
tain it ; and yet, as has been fhewn, 
the longer it has been fewn, the more 
the earth has loft of its nourifhment j 
and confequently, the crop will be yet 
weaker, and in more danger of the. 
ftarving blight. 

The moft effectual remedy againft 
the blight is that which removes all its 
caufes; (except fuch extraordinary ones 
as lightning) as, 

Firft, Want of Nourifhment. 

The horfe-hoe will, in wide inter- 
vals, give wheat, throughout all the 
ftages of its life, as much nourifhment 
as the difcreet hoer pleafes. 

Secondly, Want of Air. 

Air, being a fluid, moves moft freely 
in a right or ftrait line; for there the 
feweft of its parts meet with any re- 
finance; as a ftrair river runs fwifter 
than a crooked one, from an equal de- 
clivity ; becaufe more of the water 
fliikes againft the banks at the turn- 
ings, and is there femewhat retarded : 
and the reft moving no fafter than in 
the ftrait river, the whole fiream of 

the 

* Heavy ears never fall. If they did, 
that would not make them light. Wheat 
falls fometimes ivhiiji it is in grafs, and be- 
fore it comes into ear\ fo far are the ears 
from caufing it to fall. 



B L I 



B L I 



thecrookedmuflbe (lower inits courfe, 
than that of the ftrait river. 

The air cannot pafs thro' fown corn 
in a direifl line, becaufe it mult ftrike 
againft, and go r^und every plant, they 
landing all in the way of its courfe, 
which muft flop its current near the 
earth. 

And the air amongfl fown corn is 
like water amongfl reeds or ofiers in 
the fide of a river; it is fo flopped in 
its courfe, that it almofl becomes an 
eddy ; and fince airisabout eight hun- 
dred times lighter than water, we may 
fappofe its current thro' the corn is 
more eafily retarded, efpecially near 
the earth, where the corn lias occafion 
for the greateft quantity of air to pafs: 
For, tho' the upper part of the wheat 
fee not able to flop a flow current of 
air, yet it does fo much raife even a 
fwift one, as to throw it off from the 
ground, and hinder it from reaching 
the lower parts of the flalks, where 
the air muft therefore remain, in a 
manner, ftagnant ; and the thicker the 
wheat is, where it flands promifcu- 
cufly,the lefs change of air can it have, 
tho' the greater the number of the 
flalks is, the more frefh air they muft 
require. 

But the confufed manner in which 
the plants of the fown wheat fland, is 
fuch, that they muft all oppofe the free 
entrance of air amongfl them, from 
whatever point of tfie compafs it 
comes. 

Now it is quite otherwife with wheat 
drilled regularly with wide intervals; 
for therein the current of air may pafs 
freely (like water in a ftrait river, 
where there is no refiftance), and com- 
municates its nitre to the lower as well 
as upper leaves, and carry off the re- 
crements they emit, not fuffering the 
plants to be weakened, as an animal 
is, when his lungs are forced to take 
back their own expirations, if debarred 
from a fumcient fupply of frefh un- 
tainted air. And this benefit of frefh 
air is plentifully, and pretty equally, 
diflributed to every row in a field of 
hoed wheat. 

Thirdly, Want of the Sun's Rays. 

Sown wheat-plants, by their irregu- 
lar pofhion, may be faid to ftand in 
one another's light, for want of which 
they are apt to fall. 

It is tiue the whole field of plants 
receives thefamequantityof fun-beams 



amongfl them, whether they fland 
confufedly, or in order: But there is a 
vafl difference in the diltribution of 
them ; for none or the very leafl (hare 
of beams is obtained by thofe parts 
which need the greateft (hare, in the 
confufed plants. And when the cru- 
ral parts, that fhould fupport the whole 
body of every plant, are deprived of 
their due fhare of what is fo neceffary 
to flrengthen them, the plants (like 
animals in the fame cafe) are unable to 
ftand. 

But in chilled wheat, where the 
plants ftand in a regular order, the 
fun-beams are more duly diflributed 
to all parts of the plants in the ranks ; 
for which way foever the rows are di- 
rected, if they be ftrait, the rays muft, 
fome time of the day, fall on the in- 
tervals, and be reflected by the ground, 
whence the lower parts of the wheat- 
ftalks muft receive the greater fhare of 
heat, being neareft to the point of in- 
cidence, having no weeds to fhadow 
them. 

As to that caufe of the blight, viz. 
the wheat's dying before the full time 
of its pregnancy be accomplifhed; the 
hoe removes all the objections againft 
planting early, and then it will bloffom 
the earlier : And it has vifibly kept 
wheat green a whole week longer, than 
unhoed wheat adjoining to it, planted 
the fame day. 

But the mod general blight that 
happens to wheat in cold climates, is 
caufed by infedls, which (fome think) 
are brought in the air by an eaft wind 
accompanied with moifture, a little 
before the grain is filling with that 
milky juice, which afterwards har- 
dens into flour. Thefe infedls depofit 
their eggs within the outer (kin (or 
rind) of the flalks; and when the 
young ones are hatched, they feed on 
the parenchyma, and eat off many of 
the veffels which fhould make and con- 
vey this juice; and then the grain will 
be more or lefs thin, in proportion to 
the number of veffels eaten, and as 
the infecls happen to come earlier or 
later; for fometimes they come fo 
late, that the grain is fufficiently filled 
with the faid milky juice before the 
veffels are eaten ; and then, though the 
ftraw appear through a microfcope to 
have its veffels very much eaten and 
torn, and to be full of black fpots 
(which fpou are nothing elfe but the 
excrements 



B L I 



B L I 



excrements of thofe young infers) yet 
the grain is plump, and not blighted, 
there being an obfervation, that the 
early fown wheat generally efcapes 
this blight. And it has been feen, 
where one part of a field is fown ear- 
lier than the other part, without any 
other difference than the time of fow- 
ing, that the grain of the lateft fown 
has been much blighted, and the grain 
of the earlier has efcaped the blight, 
though the ftraw of both were equally 
eaten by the infects. Hence it may 
be inferred, that the milk in the one 
had received all the nourifhment necef- 
fary to its due confiftence, before the 
veffels were deftroyed ; but, in the o- 
ther, the veffels, which fhouid have 
continued the fupply of nourifhment 
for thickening the milk, being fpoiled 
before they have finifhed that office, it 
remains too thin ; and then the grain, 
when it hardeneth, fhrinks up, and is 
blighted ; yet the grain of one and 
the other are equally plump until they 
become hard : the difference therefore 
is only in the thicknefs of the milk, 
that in the blighted being more watery 
than the other. 

The chief argument to prove, that 
thefe infects are brought by an eaft 
wind, is, that the wheat on the eaft 
fides cf hedges are much blighted, 
when that on the weft fides is not hurt: 
And as to the objection, that they are 
bred in the earth, and crawl thence up 
the (talks of the wheat, becaufe feme 
land is much more fubject to produce 
blighted wheat than other land is; 
perhaps this, difference may be chiefly 
«wing to the different fituation of thofe 
lands, as they are oppofed to the eaft, 
or to the weft. 

Another caufe why fome wheat is 
more blighted than other wheat on the 
fame land, is, the different condition 
in which the infects find it; for the 
rind of that which is very ltrong and 
rlourifhing is foft and tender ; into this 
they can eafily penetrate to lay their 
eggs ; but the wheat that is poor and 
yellow, has a hard tough fkin (or rind) 
into which the infects are not able to 
bore for the intromiffion of their eggs, 
and therefore can do it no mifchief. It 
would be in vain to advife to prevent 
the blight, by driving to make the 
wheat poor ; for though poverty may 
preferve wheat from blight, as well as 
it does people from the gout, yet that 



Is a remedy which few take willingly 
againft either of thefe difeafes: But 
this, I think might be remedied, if 
we could, from the ftrongeft wheat, 
take away fo much nourifhment as to 
turn its colour a little yellowifh juft 
before the infects come, which is fup- 
pofed to be in June, after the ear is 
out, or at leaft fully formed. 

Yet this can only be clone in wide 
intervals ; for, unlefs the fine earth can 
be thruft to fome confiderable diflance 
from the roots after they are cut off, 
they will foon (hoot out again, and 
reach it, becoming more vigorous 
thereby. 

In dry fummers this misfortune fel- 
dom happens, much heat, and very 
little moiiture, being moft agreeable to 
theconftitution of wheat; for then its 
rind is more firm and hard, as it is, on 
the contrary, made more foft and fpon- 
gy by too much moifture. 

The moft eafy and fure remedy that 
I have yet found againft the injury 
of thefe infects, is, to plant a fort of*' 
wheat that is leaft liable to be hurt by * p 
them, viz. the white- cone (or bearded) 6-/^"7 — 
wheat, whicli has its (talk or ftraw 
like a rufh, not hollow, but full of 
pith (except near the lower part, and 
there it is very chick and ftrong)^ It 
is probable it has fap-veffels that He 
deeper, fo as the young infects cannot 
totally deftrOy them, as they do in o- 
ther wheat : For when the ltraw has 
the black fpots, which (hew that the 
infects have been there bred, yet the 
grain is plump, when the grey cone and 
lammas wheat mixt with it are blight- 
ed. This difference might have been 
from the different times of ripening, 
this being ripe about a week earlier 
than the grey-cone, and later than the 
larnmas : But its being planted toge- 
ther both early and late, and at all 
times of the wheat-feed time, and this 
white-cone always efcaping with its 
grain unhurt, is an argument that it is 
naturally fortifyed againft the injury of 
thefe infects, which in wet fummeis 
are fo pernicious to other forts of 
wheat; and I can impute it to no 
other caufe than the different deepnefs 
of the veffels, the draw of other wheat 
being very much thinner, and hollow 
from top to bottom ; this having a 
fmall hollow at bottom, and there the 
thicknefs betwixt the outer fkin and 
the cavity is more than double to that 



B L I 



B L I 



in other forts of wheat; fo that I 
imagine the infects reach only the 
©utermoft veflels, and enough of the 
inner veffels are left untouched to fup- 
ply thq grain. 

This wheat makes very good bread, 
if the rniller does not grind it too 
(mail, or the baker make his dough too 
hard, it requiring to be made fofter 
than that of other flour. 

A bufliel of this white-cone wheat 
will make more bread t&ai) a bufliel of 
larnmas, and of the fa/no goodnefs ; 
fcut it gives a little yellow call to the 
bread. 
^V/»/- Another fort of lodging Might there 

- .^ is, which fome call moor-loore, and 

t //&/*■ moftly happens on light land : This is 
y l when the earth, finking away from the 
ht-A' ' roots, leaves the bottom of the italk 
higher than the fubfided ground ; and 
then the plant, having only thefe na- 
ked roots to fupport it (for which 
they are too weak) falls down to the 
earth. 

To remedy this, turn a fliallow fur- 
row againft the rows, when they are 
rtiong enough to bear it, and when the 
mould is very fine and dry; then the 
motion of the ftalks by the wind will 
eaufe fuch earth to run through the 
rows, and fettle about the roots, and 
cover them. 

Drilled wheat is not fo much fpoil- 
edby falling, as fown wheat fometimes 
is. The drilled never falls fo clofe to 
the ground, but that the air enters into 
hollows that are under it, and the wind 
keeps the ears in motion. Notwith- 
standing all the precaution that can be 
ufed,in fomeunfeafonable years wheat 
will be blighted: I have known fuch 
a general blight ; when fome of my 
lemmas wheat, planted late on blight- 
ing land, was blighted, amongrt the 
reit of my neighbours, by the infects, 
but the grain of the fown wheat was 
vaflly more injured than that of the 
drilled : The former was fo light, that 
the grra^il part was blown away in 
winnowing, and the remainder fo bad, 
that it was net fit to make bread : The 
drilled made as good bread, and had as 
much flour in it, as the fown wheat 
had, that was not blighted ; for the 
grains of the drilled were much lar- 
ger than thofe of the fown; being 
formed to have been twice as big as 
the grains of wheat generally are, had 
they not been blighted, Tull. 



Je£i //7,'/]i°-<^- 



BLINDNESS, deprived of the fenfe 
of fight. 

A/son- Blind, or lunatic, a difeafeto 
which horfes are fubjedt, the fymptoms 
of which are no other than the fore- 
runners of cataracts, and generally end 
in blindnefs. 

Mr. Brind'ey fays, a moon-eyed horfe 
is known by his weeping, and keeping 
his eyes almolt ihut at the beginning of 
the diftemper. As the moon changes 
he gradually recovers his fight; and in 
a fortnight or three weeks fees as well 
as before. Your dealers, when they 
have fuch a horfe to fell at the time of 
his weeping, always tell you that he 
has got a bit of ftraw or hay in his eye. 
or that he has received fome blow. 
They alfo take great care to wipe away 
the humour, to prevent its being feen. 
But a man fhould truft only himfelf in 
buying of horfes, and above all be very 
exact in examining the eyes. In this 
he mull have regard to the time and 
place where he makes the examination. 
Bad eyes may appear good in winter, 
when the fnow is upon the ground ; 
and often good ones appear bad, accor- 
ding to the pofition of the horfe. Ne- 
ver examine a horfe's fight by the fide 
of a white wall, where the dealers will 
chufe to fhew one that is moon-eyed. 
The furtft way is to take him jult at 
the liable door, when only his head 
peeps out, and all his body is ftill with- 
in ; or to examine him in a dark (ta- 
bic, with a candle. If the white of 
the eye appears reddifh at bottom, or 
the colour of a withered lsaf, I would 
not advile you to purchafe that horfe. 

A moon-eyed or lunatic horfe has 
always one eye bigger than the other, 
and above his lids you may dilcover 
wrinkbs or circles. 

If he has been attacked but twice or 
three times with this diforder, there 
are fome hopes of a cure, by purfuing 
the following directions. . At leaft you 
have a clian to fave one eye, and pre- 
vent the deformity of the other. If 
you take him at his being firft affected, 
both eyes will become as good as ever. 
This diftemper proceeds from diffe- 
rent caufes, which every one is not ac- 
quainted with. 

When youngcolts have eat too much 
oats, or other grain, they are apt to 
drain the veflels which feed the eye. 
Others have the eyes difeafed by being 
rid and fatigued too young ; and o- 

thers 



B L I 



B L O 



thers owe It to the foil where they were 
brought up. Fat, humid, or marfhy 
ground, which breeds a very juicy 
grafs, may caufe the head to fwell with 
humours, and weaken the fight. Grey, 
jfabel, whitifh, or flea-bitten horfes, 
are more fubject than others to thei'e 
diforders, Not that any colour is ex- 
empt from it, or that any pafture may 
not produce it. 
The manner of treating a moon-eyed horfe. 

Put him nrft to a bran diet, and give 
him no oats during the whole courfe. 
Make an incifion along the vein that 
paffes from the tcmpie to the corner of 
the eye, and a little above i:. Having 
opened rhe fkin with a delicate hand, 
take a fmall wild goat's horn, and an 
incifion-knife, and divide all the fitfh 
from the artery without cutting it. As 
you go on, pafs the goat's horn under- 
neath ; and then with a needle and 
ftrong double filk, well waxed, make 
a ligature on the upper fide of the ar- 
tery; then open the vein longways, 
without cutting it, and let it bleed for 
fome time. When you have drawn 
away blood enough, which will be in 
a quarter of an hour, pafs the goat's 
horn again under the artery, and in 
the fame manner make another liga- 
ture next to the eye. Then cut the 
artery between the two ligatures, clip 
offttie fi Ik pretty clofe to the knots, 
and fill up the wound with a quartern 
of butter, mixed with about an 
ounce of fait. Do the fame on the o- 
ther fide of the head. Drefs the wounds 
afterwards twice a day, for about a 
week; and then contii.ue to foment 
them three times a day with hot wine, 
fweetened with finefugar, till the cure 
is compleated. This operation is pro- 
perly called cutting the temporal ar- 
teries, and not tying-up the veins, as 
it has hitherto been ignorantly named 
by the farriers and grooms who know 
no diffeience between an artery and a 
vein. 

Some perform it in another manner, 
by running a hot wireacrof; ; but this 
way is not always fuccef>ful, and the 
other is moft preperforthofe who have 
net a very nice hand. A month alter 
this operation, the horfe muff be un- 
nerved. The wounds here mull be 
cireffed with fait butter, as before: and 
cbferve to ufe no waters nor powders 
to moon-eyes, becaufe the difesfe is 
v.ithir. the eye, and not upon the cornea. 
T Br Miry. 



Mr. Lifle, in his Hufbandry, fays, 
The fheep in fome parts of Wiltfhire 
are troubled with a blindnefs, and are 
cured by anointing their eyes with 
goofe-dung. 

BLITE, [Blitum] Strawberry Blite, or 
Strjivberry Spinach. This annual plant 
grows naturally in Spain and Portu- 
gal not unlike fpinach; it has long been 
known in England, and bears a fruit not 
unlike wood ftrawberries, very fuccu- 
lent and full of a purple juice, which 
ftains the hands of a purple colour. 
There are two forts not much unlike, 
they are propagated by fovving the feeds 
in March or April, and in July they 
wiil fhew forth their berries. 

BLOOD, [Sanguis] theliquorwhich 
circulates through the veins and arte- 
ries of the animal body. 

BLOODVVORT, [Rumex Sanguineus] 
a fpecies of dock with red bloody co- 
loured veins. 

BLOODFLOWER, [Ha-manthus] of 
this there are three forts all brought 
from the Cape of Good Hope; they 
are propagated by parting the roots, or 
by the feed, which fhould be fown in 
potsfoon after they are ripe, and kept 
in the ftove all the winter; if thefe 
pots are plunged into the tan-bed in 
the bark-ftove, in the vacancies be- 
tween the plants, the feeds will be 
fooner prepared to vegetate in the 
fpring, when the pots may be taken 
out of the ftove and plunged into a mo- 
derate hot-bed, which will bring up 
the plants in a little time; foon after 
they are i:p, they muft have air ad- 
mitted to them every day in mild wea- 
ther, to prevent their drawing up weak; 
and when they are fit to remove, they 
may be each planted in a feparate fmall 
pot filled with light earth, and plun- 
ged into the hot-bed again to promote 
their taking new root ; tiien they mufl 
be gradually hardened, and afterwards 
may be removed into the dry ftove, 
where they fhould conftantly remain, 
otherwife theplsnts will not thrive and 
flower in this country. In the winter 
feafon they mtift net have too much 
wet, for as their roots are flefhy and 
fticculent, fo they are apt to rot with 
moifture. In the fummer they mull 
have a large fhare of air in warm wea- 
ther, and require to be frcanently wa- 
tered, efpecially during the time of 
their flowering. 

BLOODSPAVTN, a kind of varix 
or 



BOG 



B O C 



or fwelling of the vein that runs along are commonly found at the firft or fe- 

the infide of the hock, forming a little cond fpit mod frequently, where any 

foft fwelling in the hollow part, and is thing of fmall gravel or ftonynefs is to 

often attended with a lamenefs of the be found, and fometimes lower in a 

leg. For the cure, bathe the part with hungry gravel : But it is always lower 

Vegeto-mineral water warm, twice or in boggy land than rufhy, and is deep 

thriceaday; if this has no eft'ecl, open according to the weight of earth that 

the fkin and tie up the vein both below pens it in. The belt way is to begin 

and above tne fwelling, and cut away the drain at the ioweft place, and fo to 

or open the intermediate part, drefs it carry it /ntothe bog towards thefprir.g 

with Goulard's cerate, or vegeto-mi- head, where you rr,uft make fucli 

neral water. trenches either round or crofs the bog 

BLGOD-WO OD, [Hamatcxjlum] as you fhall find neceffary to drain it 

Logwood. thoroughly. If your drains be deep 

BLOSSOM, the flower of a plant, that you fear cattle falling into them, 

particularly of trees. fling in flones and brickbats, and co- 

BLOW1NG of a flower, an artificial ver them with wood, flags, turf, &c. 

procefs, in order to make the flower la ing the eart/i upon it again, and the 



difpky itfelf to greater advantage than 
it would naturally. 

BLOWMILK, fklmmed milk. 

BLOWN, Swelled, or Hoved. 
A difeafe in cattle, caufed by eating 
clover too greedily, fwallowing more 
than they can degorge to chew again. 
As foon as the diforder is difcovered, 



water will drain between the ftoncs ; 
But whatfoever dains or trenches you 
make that you Jeave open, never lay 
your earth on heaps by the fides cf 
them as moll do; but let the earth be 
flung as' far from it as you ca"n, efpe- 
cially if any low places be near, and 
that your trenches are fmall. But 



let a hollow pipe of elder be tlirult up where large, if the work be not too 

the fundament, and let the bead be great, carry it away in wheelbarrows 

driven about and not lie down on any or carts, where the ground will allow 

account; if, notwithstanding this, the of it. Mortimer. 

wind be not difcharged, an inciiion BO'CONIA. A plant common in 

mull be made into the flank of the Jamaica, and fisveral other parts of A- 

beaft by a fharp pointed pen- knife as merica, where it grows to the height 
far as poffible. , 's °f ten or twelve feet, having a flrait 

BLUEBALL.a provincial^name for trunk as large as a man's arm, which 

cone wheat. /3i/ce. CnnJjT. ffoj ■ is covered with a white fmooth bark, 

BLUEPOTTLE, [Cyanui] the name At the top it divide's into feveralhran- 

of a weed common in corn fields, and ches, on which the leaves are placed 



of late years taken into the gardens, 
where it forms a variety ; it ir.oulJ be 
fown rn the fpring, it flowers in July, 
and fheds its feeds in autumn 



alternately. Thefc leaves are eight or 
nine inches long, and five or fix broad, 
deeply linuated, fometimes almoft to 
the midrib, and ar: of a fine glaucous 
BOAR, the male hog. f2ti!£*4i?ft- colour. The whole plant abounds 
BOG. Boggy lands are of two with a yellow juice, like the greater 
forts, firft, thofe that lie between Celandine, which is of an acrid n;i- 
hills, which commonly have defcent e- ture; fo that it Js ufed by the inhabi- 
nough to drain them. Secondly, thofe tants of America, to take off waits, 
which lie in flat levels and fens. That and fpots from the eyes, 
which feeds boggy lands, is, fpringS It is propagated by feeds, which, 
pent up by a Weight of earth that fhould be fown in a pot filled with light 
dams up the water, and caufes it to frefh earth early in the fpring, and 
fpread in the ground fo far as the earth plunged ir.to a hot-bed of tanners bark, 
is foft. Therefore you mutt obferve When the plants are come up, they 
where your Ioweft place is, and what fhould be each tranfplanted intofrml! 
defcent you have, that fo you may cut feparate pots, and plunged into the hot 
through the earth d^ep enough to take b"ed again, obfciving to fhade the g!af- 
all the water away from the bottom of fes in the heat of the day until the 



the bog, a fpit below the fprings, or 
elie your work will be but of little 
value. In rufhy grcunJs the fprings 



plants have taken root, then they fhould 

have a lar^e fhareof air, by raif.ngthe 

glaijes of the hot- bed. When th$ 

plants 



BON 

plants have filled thefe fmall pots with 
their roots, they fhould be fhaken out 
of them, and planted into pots one 
fize larger, and plunged into the bark 
ftove, where they fhould liave a good 
lhare of frefh air in warm weather. 
Thefe plants mu'i be conftantly kept 
in the ftove being too tender to thrive 
in this country in any other fuuation. 
The Angular btauty of this ^>lant ren- 
ders it worthy of a place in every cu- 
rious collection ; and it feems the In- 
dians were very lor.d of it, for Hernan- 
dez tells us, the Indian Kings planted 
it in their gardens. 

BOIL. In beafts apply a diachylon 
plafler or when broke wafh with Gou- 
lard's vegeto-mine r al water. 

BOLE, the trunk of a tree. 

BOLING-TREES. Pollards. 

BOLL, a feed-god of popp ks } a ftalk 
of fax. J*? C > ■ .'' J# * Ufffid . 

BONE-SPAVIN When the bone- 
fpavin happens to a horfe in one leg 
only, it makes him lame; but when 
it feizes both, either behind or before,, 
he does not limp at all. His joints 
however arenotfree, and confequently 
he cannot be fure-footed. The motion 
of the joint between the hoof and the 
fetlock being impeded, it can be of no 
great fervice : And when the difurder 
is alike in both legs, and the horfe is 
not lame, many people are ignorant 
how that joint is formed, and what ufe 
it is of in walking. They buy foch 
horfes without knowing them, and are 
not convinced of their error till too 
late. You fhould examine a horfe 
thoroughly therefore before you buy 
him, and in particular fee if all the 
joints of his fore-legs move with equal 
freedom. Moll horfes that have the 
bone-fpavin are very apt to start when 
you go to take up their legs, and will 
hardly let you touch them with your 
hand. Examine them well therefore 
with your eye, nr.d fee if between the 
fetlock and the crown the leg defcends 
even and finooth ; for if you fee any 
protuberance between the fielh and 
the fkin, that looks like a fort of knot 
or kernel, you have found the deleft. 
If the tumour be yet foft, it will be 
the more ealily cured ; but in time it 
grows very hard and callous, and con- 
fequently very obftinate, A manth'.t 
has cured twenty of thefe in his life- 
time, cannot fairly promife for the 
twenty-fir!!;; for the leg puh.-ips imy 
be never the better, after ail the good 



B O R 

treatment in the world. But if you 
have the good fortune to take it in 
hand at firft, before the fwelling is 
grown hard, you mult fhave off the 
hair upon it, and apply < nee every 
day, fome of the following ointment s 
Take b'ackhell.bore, euphorbium, and 
Spamfh flies, each a ounces in powdery 
and mix them with 4 ounces of oil of 
bays. Continue this ior about a fort- 
night; after which, apply marfhmal- 
lows root, well boiled and pounded 
once a day, for a fortnight or three 
weeks, fattening it on with a bandage. 
One muft not expeft, however, that 
this method will cure an. old bone-fpa- 
vin; for that you muft unfoje your 
horfe, as the farriers know how; and 
the fole being raifed, bleed him in the 
foot, and then drefs the fole with tur- 
pentine a little warm, and bind it faft 
down with tow and fplinters. The 
foot being clreffed, give him the goofe- 
foot fire ; that is, draw a line upon the 
middle of the joint, from before the 
fetlock to the fore part of the crown ; 
and then draw three others on each 
fide, encircling the joint with them all 
round as they defcend. The fire fhould 
be given more fiercely here than for 
windgalls: But the firft line fhould 
pot be fo ftrong as the others, becaufe 
it ferves only for a guide to make the 
others by. When you have given the 
fire according to art, in the manner 
herefet down, you have room to hope 
the diforder will go away, and the horfe 
become pretty free in the joints : But 
you ought not to expect as much fer- 
vice from him as if he had never any 
defedl: :, He may be fit for fhort excur- 
fions, by way of pleafure, but not for 
any long journey. 

BOOSE, a flail or ftand. 

BORAGE, [£o,agt) Thefpecies are 
ift, the common officinal borate- zd 
the oriental, growing near Conftanti^ 
nople; 3d, Indian; 4th, African. The 
firft is common and well known the 
flowers arefuppofed to be cardiac, and 
are much ufed in cool tankards. The 
fecond is a perennial plant flowering 
in March, and the feeds ripen in May. 
The flowers of the third fort are pale 
blue, the fourth white ; they are both 
annuals, their feeds fhould be fown in. 
autumn. 

BORBONIA, a fpecies of plants 

which grow naturally at the Cape of 

Good Hope, where they grow to the 

height 



B O R 



B O T 



beight of ten or twelve feet. They 
may be propagated by layers or feeds, 
firft in a hot-bed, and afterwards by 
degrees brought into the open air a- 
bout June. They bear a kind of but- 
terfly flower, which produces a kidney- 
Jhaped feed. 

BORDHALFPENNY, toll-money 
paid in markets or fairs. 

BORDERS, beds wrought for the 
purpofe of planting flowers, &c. 

BORD-LANDS, the demefnes which 
lords keep in their hands for the main- 
tenance of their board or table. 

BORD-LODE, a fervice required of 
tenants to carry timber out of the 
woods of the lord to his houfe. It is 
alfoufed to fignify the quantity ofpro- 
vifion which the bordarii or bordmen 
paid for their bord-lands. 

BORD-SERVTCE, the tenure of 
bord-lands, by which fome lands in cer- 
tain places are held of the Bifhop of 
London, and the tenants now pay 6d. 
per acre, in lieu of the ancient cuftom of 
rinding provillonsfor their lord's table. 

BORECOLE, [Brafica fimbnata] A 
fpecies of cabbage of which there are 
three forts, namely, the common bore- 
cole, the green borecole, and the Sibe- 
rian borecole, which is the curled cole- 
wort, by fome called Scotch kale. All 
thefe are for winter ufe, but the laft is 
moft efteemed. The two former are 
fown about the middle of April, and 
are fit for tranfptanting in about two 
months after. VVhtn this is done, the 
plants of either of thefe forts mould 
be fet a foot afunrfer in rows two feet 
diftant from each other. They mould 
not be eaten before the froft has ren- 
dered them tender; for till then they 
are tough and bitter. The Siberian 
borecole, which is extremely hardy, 
never injured by froft, and always 
fweeter in fevere winters than in mild 
ones, need not be fown till the middle 
of July, and when the plants are Arong 
enough for removing, that is, when 
they have fix or eight leaves, they 
fhould alfo be fet in rows ; the dif- 
tance between which fhould be about 
two feet, and that between the plants, 
ten inches. Thefe will be fit for ufe 
foon after Chriflmas, and continue 
good till April. The foil tor borecole 
fhould be a good, frefh, deep-loofened 
earth. 

BORING, in a general fenfe, the 
art of perforating or making a hole 
shrough any folid body. 



Boring, in farriery, an operation 
in ufe for the cure of wrenched moul- 
ders in horfes. It is this : having cut 
a hole in the fkin, over the part affect- 
ed, they blow it up with a tobacco- 
pipe, as a butcher does a fhoulder of 
veal: after which they thruft a cold 
flat iron, like the point of a fword 
blade, eight or ten inches up between 
the fhoulder- blade and the ribs: this 
they call boring. 

BOSQUETS, afmall grove of trees. 

BOSCAGE, a grove, a fmall wood. 

BOSIA. This plant is a native of 
the ifland of Canaries, and it hath alfo 
been fince found in fome of the Bri- 
tifh iflands in America; it was firft 
brought into England from the Cana- 
ries, and has long been an inhabitant 
of the Englifh gardens; but I have 
not as yet feen any of thefe plants in 
flowers, though I have had many old 
plants*under my care more than forty- 
fix years: it makes a pretty ftrong 
woody fhrub, growing with a ftem as 
large as a midling perfon's leg ; the 
branches come out very irregular, and 
make confiderable fhoots in fummer, 
which fhould be fhortened every fpring. 
Thefe branches retain their leaves till 
toward the fpring, when they fall a- 
way, and new leaves are produced 
foon after: it may be propagated by 
cuttings planted in the fpring, and the 
plants mull be houfed in winter, being 
too tender to live through that feafon 
in the open air in this country. 

BOTANY, the fcience of plants, 
their forms, kinds, virtues and ufes. 

BOTTS, a name given to a fpecies 
of worms infefting horfes and other 
cattle. 

The botts which breed in the fto- 
machs of horfes, and which are fome- 
times the caufe of convulfions, ap- 
pear to be ve r y large maggots compe- 
fed of circular rings, with little fharp 
prickly feet along the fides of their 
bellies (like the feet of hog-lice) which 
by their fharpnefs, equal to that of the 
fined needle, feem to be of ufe to faf- 
ten them to the part where they breed, 
and from whence they draw their 
nourifhment, and alfo to prevent their 
being loofened from fuch adhefion, 
before they come to maturity. The 
eggs from whence thefe botts are pro- 
duced, are difpofed in clutters round 
the lower orifice of the ftomach, and 
are laid under the inner coat, their 
breech 



BOX 



BOX 



fcreech and tail ftrait outwards, and 
their trunks fo fixed into the mufcular 
or flefhy coat of the ftomach, that it 
fometimes requires a good pull to clif- 
engage them : from the blocd of this 
laft coat they draw their nourifhment, 
which they fuck like fo many leeches, 
every one ulcerating and purfing up 
the part where it fixes, like a honey- 
comb ; and they often makefuch quick 
havock as to deftroy the horfe. 

The botts, which many horfes are 
troubJed with in the beginningof fum- 
mer, are always feen iticking to the 
ftrait gut, and are often thrurt out with 
the dung, together with a yellowifh 
coloured matter refembling melted 
fulphur j they are no ways dangerous 
there, but are apt to make a horfe reft- 
lefs and uneafy, and rub his breech a- 
gainft thepofts. The feafon of their 
coming is in the months of May and 
June, after which they are feldom to 
be feen, and rarely continue in any one 
horfe above a fortnight or three v/eeks. 
And the creature may be eafily cured 
when they are only in the ftrait gut, 
by giving him a fpoonful of favin cut 
very fmali, once or twice a day in hi 3 
oats, or bran, moiftened : three or four 
cloves of garlick may alfo be added to 
advantage. The following purge fhould 
likewife be given : 

Take fine fuccotrine aloes ten drams; 
frefh jalap one dram; birthwort 
and myrrh powdered, of each two 
drams; oil of favin and amber, 
of each one dram ; fyrup of buck- 
thorn enough to form the whole 
into a ball. 
Put the botts, which take their 
lodgment in the ftomach, are, as has 
been already obferved, extremely dan- 
gerous, by caufing convulfions, and 
are feldom difcovered by any previous 
figns before they come to life, when 
they throw the horfe into violent ago- 
nies . The only cure for thefe is mer- 
curial medicines; the following will 
anfwer the intention : 

Take quickfilver two drams: Ve- 
nice turpentine half an ounce; 
rub the quickfilver till no gliften- 
ing appears 5 then take an ounce 
cf aloes, a dram of grated gin- 
ger, thirty drops of oil of favin, 
and fyrup of buckthorn enough 
to make the whole into a ball. 
One of thefe balls may be given e- 
very fix days, with the ufual precau- 



tions with regard to mercurial phyfic; 
and the following powders immedi- 
ately : 

Take powdered tin and ./Ethiops 
mineral, of each an ounce 5 and 
give it every night in a mafh, or 
in his corn. 

Thefe medicines, or any of the va- 
rious preparations of antimony and 
mercury, fhould be continued feveral 
weeks together, in order to free the a- 
nimal entirely from thefe vermin. 

Bart lei's Farriery, 

BOUCHET, a pear fo called. 

BOWER, an arbour, a fhady place 
under the cover of trees. 

BOX, [Buxus] The fpecies are, ift, 
Box-tree with oval leaves ; 2d, Nar- 
row-leaved box; 3d, Dwarf or Dutch 
box. 

The two forts of tree box have been 
frequently raifed from feeds, and con- 
ltantly produced plants of the fame 
kind from thofe the feeds were taken; 
and the dwarf box will never rife to a- 
ny confiderable height with any cul- 
ture, nor have I ever feen this fort 
flower, where the plants have been 
encouraged to grow many years in 
the greateft luxuriancy. There are 
two or three varieties of the ftril fort, 
which are propagated in the gardens, 
one with yellow, and the other white- 
ftriped leaves. The other hath the 
tops of the leaves only maiked with 
yellow, which is called tipped box. 

The fir ft and fecond forts grow in 
great plenty upon Box-hill near Dor- 
king in Surry, where were formerly 
large trees of thefe kinds, but of late 
they have been pretty much deftroyed j 
yet there are great numbers of the 
trees remaining, which are of a confi- 
derable bignefs. 

The tree or large box are proper to 
intermix in clumps of evergreens, Sec. 
where they add to the variety of Vuch 
plantations ; thefe may be propagated 
by planting the cuttings in autumn in 
a fhady boider. When they are well 
rooted, they may be tranfplanted into 
nurferies till they are fit for the purpo- 
fes intended. The beft feafon for re- 
moving thefe trees is in Oftober, tho* 
indeed, if care be ufed to take thern 
up with a good ball of earth, they 
may be tranfplanted almoft at any 
time, except in the middle of fummer: 
thefe trees are a very great ornament to 
cold and barren foils, where few other 
things will grow. The 



BOX 



BRA 



The dwarf kind of box Is ufed for 
bordering of flower-beds or borders, 
for which purpofe it far exceeds an}' o- 
tfier plant, it being fubjeft to no inju- 
ries from cold or heat, and is of long 
duration, is very eafily kept handfome, 
and by the nrmnefs of its rooting 
keeps the mould in the borders from 
warning into the gravel-walks, more 
effectually than any plant whatever. 
This is increnfed by parting the roots, 
cr planting the flips; but as it makes 
fo great an increafe of itfelf, and fo ea- 
fily parts, it is hardly worth while to 
plant the flips that have no roots. 

Box ofaivhecl s theopening inwhich 
the end of the axle turns. 

Box of a plough, the crofs piece in 
the head of a plough which fupports 
the two crow ftaves. 

BOXTHORN, [Lychm] the fpecies 
are, ifl, Boxthorn with longer linear 
leaves; 2d, Boxthorn with fhorter li- 
near leaves; 3d, Boxthorn withwedge- 
fhaped leaves ; 4th, Boxthorn with 
fpcar-fhaped thick leaves ; 5th, Box- 
thorn with oval fpear-fhaped leaves ; 
6th, Boxthorn with fpear-fhape acute 
leaves ; 7th, Boxthorn with oblong, o- 
val, thick leaves ; Sth, Boxthorn with 
linear fpear-fhaped leaves growing in 
duffers; 9th, Smooth Boxthorn with 
with fpear-fhaped evergreen leaves pla- 
ced alternate; 10th, Lycium with o- 
valhcart-fhaped leaves placed oppofite, 
which are evergreen, and fit clofe to 
the (talks, with thick double fpihes, 
and flowers growing in clutters. 

The firft fort grows naturally in 
Spain, Portugal, and at trie Cape of 
Good Hone. It may be propagated 
either by feeds, cuttings, or layers. If 
by feeds, they fhould be fown injjthe an 
tumn foon after they are ripe, for if 
trt kept out of the ground till 
faring, they feldom come up the firit 
year. If the feeds are fown in pots, 
tl-.e pots fhould be plunged into fome 
old tan in the winter, and in very fe- 
veffe'fr6ft covered with peafe-haulm or 
fft&ti, but in mild weather fhould be 
open to receive wet ; in the fpring the 
pots fhould be plunged into a mode- 
rate hot- bed, which will foon bring up 
r-e piarfts; thefe muft be inured to 
'bear the open air as foon as the dan- 
ger of the frofl is over, and when they 
are th.ee inches high, they may be 
fhak-n out of the pets, and each 
planted in a firrait Separate pot, and 



placed in the fhade till they have taken 
new root, when they may be removed 
to a fheltered fituation, where they 
may remain till the autumn ; thenthey 
fhould be either removed into the green 
lioufe, or placed under a hot-bed frame 
to fhelter them from hard frofl ; for 
thefe plants are too tender to live in 
the open air in England, fo they muft 
be kept in pots, and treated in the 
fame way as myrtles, and other hardy 
green-houfe plants; but when the 
plants are grown flrong, there may be 
a few of them planted in the full 
ground in a warm fituation, where 
they will live in moderate winters, but 
in hard frofts they are commonly de- 
stroyed. If the cuttings of thefe plants 
are planted in a fhady border in July, 
and duly watered, they will take root, 
and may then be treated in the fame 
way as the feedling plants. 

Thefecond, feventh, and tenth forts 
are natives of the Cape of Good Hope. 

The third fort grows naturally in 
the fouth of France, in Spain and I- 
taly, and m3y be propagated by cut- 
tings or layers. 

The fourth fort was brought from 
Africa, but is too tender to bear the o- 
pen air in winter. 

The fifth, fixth, and ninth, grow na- 
turally in China. 

The eighth is like the firft. 

BR ACTE 4, the floral leaf. „ , . „ , / 

BRAKE. Fern. /*£*/<£. See /3//<rA //"■ 

BRAMBLE. See Blackberry. 

BRAN, the hulks of coin ftparated 
from the flour. /5 2/i/, 2 .***■€ */'/// i t /-,/£ 

BRANCURSINE. Bearfbreech. ' 

BRANCH, an arm of a tree, or a 
part which, fpi outing out from the 
ttunk, helps to form the head or crown 
thereof. They often life without or- 
der, and in cenfufion, from the trunk, 
as in the oak, elm, and others; but 
more regular in the fir, &c, 

BRAWN, the flefh of ajjoar, bo-, i/cc . 
ned, rolled up, or collared, bo! lea, and 
laitly pickled. 

Brawn is made only of the flitches, 
without the legs ; the oldeil boars are 
chofen for this ufe, it being a rule, that 
the older the boar the more horny the 
brawn. 

The method of making it is as fol- 
lows : the bones being taken out of 
the flitches, the flefh is fprinkled with 
fait, and !a ; d in a tray, that the blood 
may drain off; after which it is fail- 
ed' 






B K E 



B R E 



«d a little, and rolled up as hard as 
poffible. The length of the collar of 
brawn fhould be as much as one fide 
of the bone will bear; lb that when 
rolled up it may be nine or ten inches 
in diameter. 

The collar being thus rolled up, it 
is boiled in a copper or large kettle, 
till it is fo tender that you m3y run a 
ftraw through it ; when it is fet by t : ll 
thoroughly cold, and then put into the 
following pickle. To every gallon of 
water arid two handfulls of fait, and 
as much wheat-bran: boil them to- 
gether, drain the liquor as clear as 
poffible from the bran, and when the 
liquor is quite cold, put the brawn 
into it. 

BREAD, a well-known food, chief- 
ly divided into white, wheaten, and 
houfhold ; differing only in degrees of 
purity. In the nrft, all the bran is fe- 
parated ; in the fecond, only thecoar- 
fer; in the third, none at all ; fo that 
"fine bread is made only of flour; 
wheaten bread of flour, with a mix- 
ture of fine bran 5 and houfhold, of 
the whole fubftance of the grain, with- 
out taking out either the coarfe bran 
or fine fiour. 

V/e alfo meet with fymnel bread, 
manchet or roll bread, and French 
bread : which are only fo many deno- 
minations of the fineft 01 whiteft 
bread, made of the pureft flour; ex- 
cept that in roll bread there is an ad- 
dition of milk, and, in French bread, 
of eggs and butter alfo. To which 
may be added, ginger-bread, made of 
white- bread, with almonds, liquorice, 
annifeed, rofe- water, and fugar; and 
maflin bread, made of wheat and rye, 
or lometimes of wheat and barley. 

The procefs of making houfhold 
bread amongft us, is thus: to a peck 
of meal they add a handful of fait, a 
pint of yeaft, and three quarts of wa- 
ter, cold in furnmer, hot in winter, and 
temperate between the two ; the whole, 
being kneaded in a bowl or trough by 
the fire in winter, from it in fummcr, 
and a little yeaft added, will rife in a- 
bout an hour; they then mould it into 
Joaves, and put it into the oven to bake. 

For leavened bread, part of the 
flour intended for it, being made into 
dough with warm water and a little 
fait, is laid in the reft of the flour an 
hour or more, in which time it rifes to 
three times the bulk; then they mix 



and knead the whole with more 
water, till it be brought into a ftiff 
dough; which being formed into 
loaves, is baked in the oven: though 
the more ufual way is to take a piece 
of dough kneaded, and leave it in the 
tub till next time, when they break it 
fmall, and mix it with the meal, add- 
ing fome yeaft. 

For French bread, they take half 3 
bufhel of *ine flour, ten eggs, and a, 
pound and half of frefh butter, into 
which they put as much yeaft, with 
manchet; and, tempering the whole 
mafs with new milk, pretty hot, let it 
lie half an hour to rife; which done, 
they make it into loaves or rolls, and 
wafh it over with an egg beaten with 
milk: care is taken that the oven be 
not too hot. 

BREADFRUIT-TREE. |The tree 
that bears the breadfruit is about the 
fizeof a horfe-chefnut, the fruit is not 
unlike the Cantalupe melon either in 
fize or fhape. 

BREAST-PLOUGH, aplough that ~ 

a man can fhove before him. Jcj~pfc/{afi. 
_ BREWING, the art of making malt 
liquor. 

The beft months in the year for 
brewing beer to keep long are, March 
and October, becaufe the air is then 
generally moft temperate, and the 
drink works or foments the better, 
which chiefly promotes its prefervation 
and good keeping. In very cold wea- 
ther, unlefs the cellar be warm whilft 
new drink is working it will not clear 
itfelf as it ought; and in very hot wea- 
ther, it will grow muddy and four, 
and never recover itfelf, uiilef- the 
cellar be in a temperate flate. Where 
cellars are damp, it is advifeable to 
brew rather in March than Oclober, 
becaufe fuch cellars may be kept tem- 
perate in the fuinmer, and the beer 
brewed then will have time to fettle 
before the cold can affect it. Cellars 
fhould admit as little external air as 
poflible, becaufe the variation of the 
air, (if there is free adrniffion for it) 
will alter the flare of the liquor, and 
keep it perpetually diftuibed and unlit 
for drinking. 

Many gentlemen, who are curious 
in their beer, have double doors to 
their celldrs, to exclude the outward 
air; and their liquor is always good. 
Such cellars, if dry, preferve the fame 
temperature of hear in winter as in 
fummcr; 



B R E 



B R E 



fummer; and a cellar fhould be thus 

difpofed if we'expeft pood drink. 

As every perfon has a method of brew- 
ing peculiar to himfelf, we forbear gi- 
ving inftruclions in thac refpedf, and 
fhaJl only touch upon water, malt, 
hops, and the keeping liquors. 

The beft water is in general river 
water, fuch as is foft and has partook 
of the air and fun, for this eafily infi- 
nuates itfelt into the malt, and extracts 
its virtue, whereas hard waters af- 
tringe and bind the pait^ of the malt, 
fo that its virtue is not freely commu- 
nicated to the liquor. It is a rule 
with fome intelligent perfons, that 
water which will mix with foap is fit 
for brewing, and no other ; and it has 
been proved, that where the fame 
quantity of malt and hops has been u- 
fcd to a barrel of river, as to a barrel 
of fpring water, the brewing of river 
water has excelled the other in ftrength 
above five degrees in twelve months, 
and was preferable in tafte, although 
they both underwent the fame procefs 
in every refpecl. 

It frequently happens in the fame 
town, where gentlenvn ufe the fame 
malt, hops, water, and brewer, have 
brewed in the fame month, and kept 
their liquor to the fame age, that the 
flavour of each is very different: For 
this difference, three probable reafons 
may he adduced: i. The different 
f^ate of the weather in the fame month 
may make an alteration in the work- 
ing of the liquors: 2. The yeaft or 
barm may be different of which the li- 
quors were worked : And 3. The cel- 
lars may not be equally good ; for the 
goodnefs of drink that is kept, depends 
on the goodnefs of cellars where kept. 
Where cellars are dry and good, and 
the fame method of brewing is ufed, 
beer will almofi invariably be of the 
fametaflej and fuch cellars only which 
will clofe a temperate air, will ripen 
beer, and make it mellow 5 all others 
that are fubject to he.it and cold, make 
it fubject to grow flare and fharp. 

The Dorchefler beer, which is ef- 
teemed preferable to moft of the malt- 
liquor in England, is for the moft part 
brewed of chalky water, and the cellars 
being du^ in that dry foil contributes 
to the good keeping of their drink, it 
being of ^ clofe texture, and of a dry- 
irrgqualitv, fo as to tliffipate camps ; 
ftr damp cellars are injurious to keep- 



ing liquors, as well as deftruclive to 
the cafks. The malt of this county 
is of a pale colour. 

In proportion to the quantity of li- 
quor, which is enclofed in one cafk, fo 
will it be a longer or a fhorter time in 
ripening. A veffel which contains 
two hogfheads of beer, will require 
twice as much time to perfect itfelf as 
one hogfhead ; and there fhould be no 
veffel ufed for ftrong beer, which we 
defign to keep, lefs than a hogfhead ; 
for one of that quantity, if it be fit to 
draw in a year, has body enough to 
fupport it two, three, or four years, if 
it has ftrength of malt and hops in it. 

When once a veffel is broached, we 
ought to have regard to the time in 
which it will be expended ; for if there 
happens to be a quick draught for it, 
then it will laft good to the very bot- 
tom ; but if there is likely to bje a flow 
draught, then do not draw off quite 
half before you bottle it, or elfe your 
beer will grow flat, dead, or four. 

One great piece of ceconomy, is the 
good management of fmall beer ; for 
if that is not good, the drinkers of it 
will be feeble in fummer time, and in- 
capable of ftrong work, and will be 
very fubject to difiempers. The ufe 
of drink, as well as meat, is to nourifh 
the body 5 and the more labour a man 
does, the more fubftantial fhould be 
his diet. In time of harveft may be 
feen the bad effects of fmall beer a- 
mong the workmen ; and in great fa- 
milies, where that article has not been 
taken care of, the apothecaries bills 
have amounted to twice as much more 
as the malt would have 'come to, 
that would have kept the fervants in 
ftrength and good health ; befides one 
thing more, good wholefome drink is 
feldom flung away by the fervants, fo 
that the fparing of a little malt ends 
in lofs to the mafter. Where theie is 
good cellaring, therefore, it is advife- 
able to brew a flock of fmall beer, ei- 
ther in March or O&ober, or in both 
months, and to be kept in hogfheads 
if poffible : The beer brewed in Mar<»h 
to begin drawing in Oftober, and that 
brewed in October to begin in March, 
for fummer drinking. 

Water of a hard nature may be fof- 
tened, byfetting it expoled to the air 
and fun, and puttinginto it fome pieces 
of foft chalk to iniufe; or elfe when 
the water is fet on to boil, for pour- 



B R E 



R E 



irtg upon the malt, put into it a quan- 
tity of bran, which will help a little to 
(often it. 

The general diflinftion between one 
malt and smother malt, is only that 
one is high dried, the other low dried : 
the former produces a liquor of a deep 
brown colour, the latter a pale-colour- 
ed liquor. The firft is rather fcorched 
than dried, and the liquor made of it 
will fooner grow flale and fharp that 
that made of pale malt ; when brewed 
with co'.ufe water, it makes very good 
ale, but will not keep above fix months. 
If Arong beer is brewed with it, and 
"if ever lb much hopped, it will never 
drink foft and mellow like that brew- 
ed with pale malt. There is an acid 
quality in it, which occafions the heart- 
burn 5 and thofe who drink it to ex- 
cefs, are frequently afRifted with the 
gravel and ftone. 

All malt liquors, however well brew- 
ed, may be fpoiled by bad cellaring; 
and by fermenting in the cafk, will 
turn thick and four. To remedy this, 
the bung of the cafk fhould be opened 
for two or three days, and if that does 
not flop the fermentation, put into it, 
two or three pounds of oyAer (hells, 
wafhed and dried well in an oven and 
then powdered ; and flirrinj; it a little, 
it will foon fettle the drink, make it 
fine, and take off its (harp tafle. As 
foon as that is done, draw it of/ into a- 
nother veffel, and put about three pints 
of whe it or wheat malt it, or more if 
x''s veffel requires it. Sometimes fuch 
fermentation will happen by bad wea- 
ther, and tiie drink will grow {.i:<- of 
it ft If. 

High-dried malt fhould not be ufed 
till it has been ground ten days or a 
fortnight, but it muft be kept dry. 
Pale malt muft not be ground above a 
week before it is ufed. 

'I 'he neweft hops are the beft ; after 
two years, they begin to lofe their fla- 
vour, unlefs kept in great quantities, 
and in a dry place; and fo cautious 
ought perfons to be in the choice of 
tin's article, that where the water, the 
malt, the brewer, and the cellars, are 
good, a bad hop will fpoil all. The 
yeaft or barm fhould be alfo attended 
to, or a good brewing may be fpoiled, 
and it fhould be provided before brew- 
ing, that the wort may net flay for it. 

In fome places it is praclifed to dip 
Whifks into yeaft, and beat it well, and, 
U 



fo hang up the whifks with the yeaft 
in them to dry ; and if there is no 
brewing till two months afterwards, 
the beating and flirting one of thefe 
whifks in new wort, will raifea work- 
ing or fermentation in it. All di ink 
fhould be worked well in the tun, or 
keel, before it he put into the veffel, 
for elfe it will not eafily grow fine. 
Some beat down the yeaft pretty often 
while in the tun, and keep it there 
working for two or three days, obferv- 
ing to put it in the veffel j u It when the 
yealt begins to fall. This drink is 
commonly very fine, whereas that 
which is put into the veffel quicklyaf- 
ter 'tis brewed, will not be fine in ma- 
ny months. 

With relation to the feafon for brew- 
ing of drink for keeping, if the cellars 
are fubjecl to the heat of the fun, or 
warm fummer air, it is belt to brew 
in October, that the drink may have 
time to digeft berore the warm feafon 
comes on: And if cellars are incli- 
nable to damps, and to receive water, 
the bell time is to brew in March ; and 
fome brewers always chufe the brew- 
ing of pale malt in March, and the 
brown in Oclober; for pale malt being 
made with a ieffer degree of fire than 
the other, wants the fummer feafon to 
ripen it ; and the brown having had a 
larger fhare of fire to dry it, is more 
capable of defending itfelj againft the 
cold of the winter feafon. But how- 
far thefe reafsns may be juft we do 
not pretend to deteimine. 

When .are has been taken in nil the 
aj . articalars, if the calks aienot 

in good order, Ail I the brewing may 
be fpoiled. New cafks are apt to give 
drink an ill-tafte, ii not well ' i ded 
and feafoned feveral days fucceffivdy, 
before they are ufed ; and old cafks, 
if they ftand any time out of ufe, are 
apt to grow mufly; unflacked iime, 
about a gallon to a hogfhead, with a- 
bout fix gallons of water put in with 
it. and the hogfhead prefently flopped 
up, will clear it of its taint, if repeated 
four or five times; or burning cf li- 
nen dipped in brimflone, clofe flopped 
in a cafk, three or four times, will do 
the fame. 

Little more need be faid about the 
management cf drink, and that is con- 
cerning tie bottling of it. Thebottles 
firft muft be well cleaned and dried ; 
for wet bcttles will make the drink 
turn 



B R I 



B R 



turn mouldy, or mothery: the corks or hip tree. This bufh grows wild in 
mull be new ard found ; for if the air hedges throughout England. The 
can get into the bottles, the drink will flowers have a pleafant fmell ; but fo 
grow fiat, and will never rife. If bot- weak, that Parkinfon, and others, have 
ties are corked as they fhould be, it is named the plant rofa fyl-veflris inodora : 
hard to pull out the corks without a a water diftilled from them fmells a- 
fcrew, and to be fure to draw the cork greeably. The fruit or hips contain a 
without breaking, the fcrew ought to fourifh-fweetifh pulp; with a rough 
go through the cork, and then the air prickly m ittei inclofmg tie feeds, from 
mull neceftarily find a paffage where which the pulp ought to be carefully 
the fcrew has pafied, and therefore the feparated before it is taken internally : 
cork is good for nothing; or if a cork the Wirteniberg college obferves, that 
has once been in a bottle, and has been from a neglect of this caution, the 
drawn without a fcrew, yet that cork pulp of hips fometimes occafions a 
will turn mufty ai foon as 'tis expofed pruritus, and uneafinefs about the a- 
to the air, and will communicate its nus ; and I have known the conferve 
ill flavour to the bottle where it is of it to excite a violent vomiting, 
next put, and fpoi! thediink that way. BRIDLE, a contrivance made of i- ^\ 
In the choice of corks, chufe thofe ron and leather to keep the horfe in s^. 
that are foft, and clear from fpecks, fuhjeclion. "J* , 

and let them lay in water a day or two BRIONY, [Bryonia] There are feve- s. 
before you ufe them: hut let themdry ral fpecies of this plant, fome annual y^ 
again before you put them in the bot- and fome perennial: that which is u- »^ 
ties, left they fhould happen to turn fed in medicine is a rough plant grow- jJS 
mouldy.— -To prevent your bottles ing in hedges , and climbing upon the 
from burfting, take the peg or bung bufhes. "The roots are large, fometimes 
out of the calk a day or two before as thick as a man's thigh : their fmell 
bottling it; and this fhould always he when frefli is ftrong and difagreeable; 
done, unlefs the liquoi be flat without the tafle naufeoufly bitter, acrid, and 
fo doing. biting; the juice is fo fharp as in a 

In the bottling of drink, you may little time to exulcerate the fkin : 
alfo obfervc, that the top and middle of in drying, they lofe great part of their 
the hogfhead is the itrongeft, and will acrimony, and almoft the whole of 
fooner rife in the bottles than the bot- their fcent. Briony root is a ftrong 
torn: And when once you begin to irritating cathartic; and as fuch has 
bottle a veflel of any liquor, be fure been fometimes fuccefsfully exhibited 
not to leave it till all is completed, for in maniacal cafes, in fome kinds of 
clfe you will have fome of one tafte, dropiies, and in feveral chronical dif- 
and fome of another. orders where a quick folution of vifcid 

If a veflel of drink begins to grow juices, andafudden ftimuluson thefo- 
flat, whilft in common draught, bot- lids, were required. An extract pre- 
tle it, and into every bottle put a piece pared by waters aft more mildly, and 
of loaf fugar, about the quantity of a with greater fafety than the root in 'n. 
walnut, which v.'ill make the drink rife fubftance: given from half a dram to £*> 
and come to itfelf ; and to forward its a dram, it proves a gentle purgative, •* 
ripening, you may fet fome bottles in and likewife operates powerfully by >. 
hay in a warm place ; but ftraw will urine. J^ 

not affift its ripening. BRIZE, ground which has laid long £ 

If there has been opportunity of untillcd. ,-'<ec C^r/ibt'J — - 

brewing a good flock of fmall beer in BRITE.a term when hops fhatter. (t 
March and Oftober, fome of it may be BROCOLI, [Brajice, Italica] a fpe- i>* 
bottled at fix months end, putting into cies of cabbage, of which there are fe- £ 
every bottle a lump of loaf fugar as veral varieties. ^J 

big as a walnut ; this efpecially will Brocoli requires a very good and * 
be very refrefhing drink in the fum- pretty light foil, rather deep than o- 
mer: Or if you happen to brew in therwife. The proper time for fowing 
fummer, and are defirous of brifk fmall it is from the latter end of April, till 
beer, bottle it as above, as foon as it the beginning of June; and the man- 
has drne working. nerthe fame as for cabbage. When 
BRIAR, [Cyno/batos] The dog-rofe, the plants are about a fortnight or 

three 






I 



B R O 



B R O 



three weeks old, that is when they have 
got feven or eight leaves, they fhould, 
like all others of the cabbage kind, be 
tranfplanted into beds of well prepa- 
red mould, and towards the end of 
July they will be fit to be traifpljnted 
into beds where they are to remain. 
Tb'n fhould be a well fheltered fpot, 
but not under the dnp of trees. The 
plants fhould here be fet in rows at 
leaft two feet afunder, but two feet 
and a half, or even three feet, will be 
ftill better} and at the diltince of a 
foot and a half, or rather two feet from 
each other in the rows. Towards the 
end of December, if the weather be 
not very fevere, they will begin to fhew 
their fmall heads, which, especially at 
their firft appearance, are not unlike 
thofe of cauliflowers. Thefe heads 
fhould be cut off before they run up to 
feed, with about four or five inches ot 
the ftalks, and a great number of fide 
/hoots, produced from the ftem, will 
fucceed them, and continue fit for eat- 
ing till the middle of March. They 
will not indeed be fo large AS-tJie for- 
mer, but they will be equally well tail- 
ed. The fkin of the ftalks fhould be 
taken off before they are boiled. 

There are three forts of brocoli cul- 
tivated in our kitchen gardens, viz. 
the Roman or purple brocoli ; tiie Na- 
ples, or white brocoli; and the brown 
or black brocoli. The firlt of thefe is 
the fined flavoured, and continues 
Jongeft in feafon ; and therefore is mod 
elteemed. The fccond, or white bro- 
coli, has fo nearly the tafte of cauli- 
flower, that it is not always eafy to dif- 
tinguim them. The brown or black 
fort is the lea't delicate, but the har- 
dieft, and grows to the largell fize. 

For a feeond crop to fupply the ta- 
ble after the firft is gone, Mr. Miller 
advifes the fowing of brocoli again in 
the beginning of July ; but Mr. Swit- 
zer thinks it wrong to fow this plant 
even fo late as Midfummer, becaufe 
their Items will not be Itrong enough 
beforethe winterto produce that num- 
ber of fprouts they otherwife would 
do, if fown fooner. He therefore di- 
rects the plants to be divided into 
three parts, and to cut their heads off 
entirely within a foot and a half, or 
two feet of the ground; beginning to 
do this to one parcel about a fortnight 
©r three weeks before Michaelmas, to 
she cext about a month after, and to 



the laft about a fortnight or ^three 
week; before Chriftmas: by which 
means a continued fucceflion of fprouts 
will iffue from the fides of the remain- 
ing flems. Either directions may be 
followed ; but the largeft heads will be 
produced by Mr. Miller's method, and 
the greateit number by that of Mr. 
i>witzer. 

BROKEN-WIND, a very fatal dif- 
eafeto which horfes are too often fub- 
jecl. 

This diforder hitherto feems to have 
been little underflood ; but Mr. Gib- 
fon is inclined to think, that the fource 
of it is frequently owing to die inju- 
dicious, or hafty feeding young horfes 
forfale; by which means the growth 
of the lungs, and all the contents ..';h- 
in the cheft, are fo increafed, and, in 
a few years, fo preternaturally enlarged, 
that the cavity of the cheft is not ca- 
pacious enough for them to expand 
themfeives, and perform their func- 
tions. 

A narrow contracted cheft with 
large lungs may fometimes naturally 
be the caufe of this diforder: and it 
has been obferved, that horfes rifing 
eight years ©Id, are as liable to this dif- 
temper, as at a certain period ot life, 
men fall into afthmas, confumptions, 
and other chronic difeafes. 

The reafon why this d iforder becomes 
more apparent at this age may be, that 
a horfe comes to hi» full ftrength and 
maturity at this time : at fix he com- 
monly finifhes his growth in height ; 
after which he lets down his belly, and 
fpreads, and all his parts are grown 
to their full extent ; fo that the preffure 
on the lungs and midriff is now more 
increafed. 

But how little weight foever thefe 
reafons may have, repeated diffeclions 
have given ocular proofs of a preter- 
natural largenefs, not only of the lungs 
of broken-winded horfts, but of their 
heart and its bag; ?.nd alfo of the 
membrane which divides the cheft; 
as well as of the remarkable thinnefi 
of the diaphragm or midiiff 

This disproportion has been obfer- 
ved to be fo great, that the heart and 
lungs have been almoft of twice their 
natural fize; perfectly found, and 
without any ulceration whatever, or 
any defect in the wind-pipe or its 
glands. 

Hence it appears, ti at this enor- 
mou» 



B R O 



B R » 



mous fize of the lungs, and the ("pace 
they occupy, by hindering the free ac- 
tion of the midriff, is the chief caufe 
of this diforder; and as the fubftance 
of the lungs was found more flefhy 



fron, half an ounce: make ttts 
whole into a palle with honey ; 
ard give a ball about the fize of a 
pullet's egg every morning. 
Broken-winded horfes fhould eat 



than ufual, they mull of courfc have fparingly of hay, which, as well as 
1oft much of their fpring and tone. their corn, may be wetted with cham- 

This flefhinefs and (ize of the lungs ber-lye, or fair water; as this will 
may, in a great meafure, be the caufe, make them ltf craving a'ter water, 
why the infpirations in broken-wind- The volatile fairs in the urine may 
ed horfes are difproporticnately flow; render it preferable to water, and may 
for we may obferve that they draw be the reafon why garlic is found fo 
their in breath flowly, their flanks fil very efficacious in thefe cafes ; two or 
ling up, and riling with difiicul y : but three cloves given at a time in a feed, 
that their flanks fall fuddenly, and ttieir or three ounces of garlic bruifed, and 
breath hurfts forth with violence, both boiled in a quart of milk and water, 
from mouth and noftrih ; infomuch, and given every other morning for a 
that a man in the dark, by holding his fortnight, having been found rery fer- 
liands on the horfe' s mouth and nofe, viceable; for by warming and ftimu- 
may eafiiy difcover if he is broken- iating the folids, and diffolving the te- 
winded. naceous juices, which choak up the vef- 

Whoeverconfidcrs a broken-wind in fdU of the lungs, thefe complaints are 
this light, muft own that it may be greatly relieved. 

reckoned among the mciirable diftem- Careful feeding and moderate exer- 
persof horfes; and that all the boaft- cife has greatly relieved broken-wind- 
ed pretentions to cure, are vain and ed horfes; and though for the firft 
frivolous, fince the utmoft fkill can fummer they have not been able toen- 
amountto no more than now and then dure much labour, yet manyhavebeen 
palliating the fymptoms, and mitiga- found lefs oppreffed the fecond, and 
ting their violence. frme fcarce perceptibly affected the 

We fhall therefore lay down fuch third ; and even able to bear great fa- 
methods as may probably prevent this tigue : and could a horfe be kept 
diforder, when purfued in time ; but conflantly in the field, and taken up 
if they fhould not fucceed, we fliall of- only when ufed, he might, by this nia- 
fer fome remedies and rules to miti- nagement, do good lcrvice for many 
gate its force, and to make a horfe as years. 

ufeful as poffible under this malady. But whoeverexpecls to cure his horfe 

It is ufual before a broken-wind ap- by fending him out to grafs, will find 
pears, for a horfe to have a dry ohfti- himfelf difappointed. efpecially if he' 
r.ate cough, without any vilible fick- remains abroad after the fpring grafs; 
nef.s or lofs of appetite; but, on the for on his return to the liable and dry 
contrary, a difpofition to foul feeding, meat, he will be more oppreffed and 
eating the litter, and drinking much fhort breathed than before, for want 
water. of the open air, and the moift food he 

In order then to prevent, as much has been accuftomed to. 
as poffible, this diforder. bleed him, Hcrfes fent to grafs in ordei to be 
and give him two drams of calomel, cured of an obftinate cough, have of- 
mixed up " irh an cur,; e of diapente, ten returned completely broken-wind- 
for two nights fucceffively, keeping him ed, where the pafture has been rich and 
cloa hed and well littered; and feed- fucculent, fo that they have had their 
ing him with fcalded bran and warm bellies conltantly full. As the ill con- 
water, fequence therefore is obvious, where 
The following balls are then to be ycu have not the convenience of turn- 
taken for fome time, which have been ing out your horfe for a conflancy, 
found extremely efficacious in remo- you may foil him for a month or two 
ving obllinate coughs : with young green barley, tares, or any 
Take gum ammoniacum, galhanum, other young herbage. 

and affafcttida, of each two oun- To purfive, thick winded-horfes, 
ces ; fquiJJs, four ounces; cinna- Barbadoes and common tar have often 
bar of antimony, fix ounces; faf- been given with fuccefs, to the quan- 
tity 



B R O 



B R O 



tity of two fpconfuis mixed with tlie 
yolk f »n~egg, difTolved in vvaini ale, 
and given failing two or three times a 
•.vee^efpecially on thole days you hunt 
or travel. 

But in order to make all thefe Corn 
of horfes of any realfervice, the grand 
point is to have a particular regard to 
their diet, obferving a juft cecor.omy 
both in ti:at and their exercife ; giving 
them but a moderate quantity of hay, 
corn, or water, at a time, and rrioiftehr 
ing the former to prevent their requi- 
ring too much of the latter, and never 
exercifing them but with moderation, 
as has been before obferved. . 

Thefohowing ball may lie given once 
a fortnight or three weeks ; and as it 
operates very gently, and requires no 
confinement, except the days it is gi- 
ven (when warm meat and water \vTll 
be necelTa y) it May be continued for 
two or tl'n'ee months. 

T Ae fuccctrine aloes, fix drams; 
myrrh, galbanum, and ammonia- 
cum, of each two dtams ; bay 
berries, half an oance; oil of am- 
ber, a fpoonful : make the whole 
into a ball with a fufficient quan- 
tity of fyrup of buckthorn. 

BROOD, the produce of a heft. 

BROODING, the aft of a hen, or 
other bird, fitting on a number of eggs, 
to keep them warm, till they hatch, or 
produce .young ones. 

BROOK CIME, (BccaiungaJ This is 
a low plant, comm'oii in little rivulets 
and ditches of (landing water: the 
leaves remain all the winter, but are 
in greitefc perfection in the fpring. 
Thefi prevailing tafte is an herbaceous 
one, accompanied with a very light 
bitterifhnefs. — Becabunga is Puppbfed 
to have a faponaceous detergent virtue, 
and to attenuate vifcid humours with- 
out pungency or irritation : Hence it 
is directed in the fpecies of fcurvy cal- 
led hot, where the cochleariae, and o- 
ther acrid antifcorbutics are lefs pro- 
per. In this difeafe, and where the 
animal juices are difpofed to a putrid 
alcalefcent ftate, it may be given along 
with the forrels, orange juice, or other 
vegetable acids; or employed for aba- 
ting the acrimony of the fcurvy graf- 
fes and nafturtia. 

BROOM, [Gem/la] There are feve- 
ral forts all propagated by feeds, which 
fucceed better in autumn than in fpring; 
(he leaves have a naufsous bitter tafte : 



they are foid to purge both by ftool 
and urine, and hence ftand recommend- 
ed in hydropic cafes. The flowersare 
alfo faid co prove cathartic in decoc- 
tion, and emetic in fubltance, though 
in fome places, as Lobel informs us, 
they are commonly ufed, and in large 
quantity, in faltads', without p-oducing 
any effect of this kind. Thequalities 
ci the feeds are little better determi- 
ned : fome report, that they purge al- 
moll as ftrongly as helieooie, in the 
dofe of a dram and halt; whi.ft the 
author above-m: nnoned relates that he 
has given a decoction of two ounces of 
them as a gentle emetic. 

BRO WALLIA. There are two forts, 
one with only a Tingle flower on each 
footftalk, the other with one or many 
flowers on each footflalk The fir ft is 
a native of Panama, the plants are an- 
nual, fo peri (h in autumn; the feeds 
mufl be fown u on a hot-bed in the 
fpring, and the plants brought forward 
on another, otherwife they will not 
peiledl their feeds in England. Some 
of th^fe plants may be tranfplante^ in 
June, into the borders of the flower- 
garden, where, if the feafon proves 
warm, they will flower and perfect 
feeds; but left thefe lhould fail, there 
fhould be a plant or two kept in the 
Hove to fecute feeds. They ufually 
grow about two feet high, and fpread 
out into lateral branches on every 
fide the Calk, garnifhed with oval leaves 
which are entire, and have (hort foot. 
Italics. Toward the end of the bran- 
ches the flowers are ptoduced finely 
upon pretty long fo> t-ftalks, arifmg 
from the wing of the leaf. Thefe 
have a mort empalement of one leaf, 
which is cut into five parts; out of 
the center of the empalement the flow- 
er aiifes, which is crooked and bent 
downward; the top of the tubeisfpread 
open, and the brim, or open part of 
the flower, has fome refemblance to a 
lip-flower, being irregular; it is of a, 
light blue colour, fometimes inclining 
to a purple or red, and often there are 
flowers of three colours on the fame 
plant. When thefe fall away, the ger- 
men in the center becomes an oval cap- 
fule of one cell, filled with ffrrail, an- 
gular, brown feeds. It flowers in July, 
Auguft, and September, and the feeds 
are ripe in five or fix weeks after. 

The fecond fort grows naturally it\ 
Peru-, theftalkof this plant is twic^ 

the 



BUG 



B U C 



the fize of that of the firft, and appears 
fomewhat fhrubby; the leaves upon 
the flower branches aie fmooth: the 
fooi italks have fome with one flower, 
ethers have three, and fome five flow- 
ers, which are of a deep violet colour, 
and are fuccseded by feed-veffels like 
thofe of the firft fort. This requires 
the fame culture as the former. 

ERUNSFELSIA. This plant rifes 
with a woody ftem to the height of 
eight or ten feet, fending out many 
fide branches, which are covered with 
a rough bark, and garnifhed with ob- 
long oval leaves. At the extremity of 
the branches the flowers are produced, 
generally three or tour together. Thefe 
are aimoft as large as thofe of the 
greater bindweed, but have very long 
narrow tubes, which are hairy. After 
the flower is paft, the empalement 
turns to a round foi't fruit, inclofing 
many oval feeds, wh.ch arc fituated ciofe 
to the cover or fkin, to which tl^.ey 
adhere. 

This plant grows naturally in moft 
of the fugar iflands in America; it 
may be propagated from feeds, which 
fhould be fown early in the fpring in 
pots, and plunged into a hot-bed of 
tanners bark. When the plants are 
come up and fit to remove, they fhould 
be tranfplanted each into a feparate 
finall pot, and plunged into the hot- 
bed again, obferving to water and fhade 
the plants until they have taken root. 
When the plants have advanced fohigh 
as not to be contained in the frames, 
they fliould be removed into the bark- 
itove, where, during the fummec 
months, they fhould have a large 'hare 
of free air, but in the winter they mult 
be kept very clofe. Thele plants may 
alfo be increafed by plancing their cut- 
tings in the fpring before they fhoot, 
in pots filled with frefh light earth, 
and plunged into a hot- bed of tanners 
bark. 

BRUTE, an irrational animal. 

BUCK.B E AN, [Trifolium faludofum,] 
Marfh trefoil. This plant grows wild 
jn moid marfhy places : it has three 
ov^! leaves ftanding together, upon 
©ne pedicle which iffues from the root ; 
their tafte i> very bitter, and fome- 
what naufeous. Marfh trefoil is an 
efficacious aperient and deobftruent, 
promotes the fluid fecretions, and, if 
liberally takea, gently loofens the bel- 
ly. It has of late gained great repu- 



tation in fcorbutic and fcrophulous 
diforders : and its good effects in theft- 
cafes have been warranted by expe- 
rience; inveterate cutaneous difeafes 
have been removed by an infufion of 
the leaves, drank to the quantity of a 
quart a day, at proper intervals, and 
continued for fome weeks. Boerhaave 
relates, that he was relieved of the 
gout by drinking the juice mixed with 
whey. 

BUCKSHORNTREE, [Cowopus] of 
the coronopus, or buckfhorn plantain; 
there are two varieties growing in 
England, viz. the common buckfhorn, 
which grows plentifully on heaths 
every where, and the narrow-leaved 
Wtlfh fort, which is found upon many 
of. the Welfh mountains. The firft 
of thefe was formerly cultivated as a 
fallad herb in gardens, but has been 
long banifhed from thence foi its rank, 
difagreeable flavour; it is fometimes 
ufed in medicine. There has been one 
fpeciesof pfyllium or fleawort, found 
growing naturally in England, which 
is the fort ufed in medicine ; this was 
found in the earth, thrown out of the 
bottom of the canals, which were dug 
for the Chelfea water- works, where it 
grew in great plenty. The feeds of 
this mult have been buried there fome 
ages, for no perfon remembers any of 
the plants growing in that neighbour- 
hood before. The feeds of this arc 
fometimes ufed, which are imported 
from the fou th of France. 

BUCKTHORN, [Rhamnui] This 
tree is common in hedges : it flowers 
in June, and ripens its fruit in Sep- 
tember or the beginning of October. 
In our markets, the fruit of fome o- 
ther trees, as the frangula or black 
berry bearing alder, and thecornus fce- 
mina or dog-berry tree, have of late 
years been frequently mixed with, or 
fubftituted for, thofe of buckthorn. 
This abufemay bedifcovered by open- 
ing the berries: thofe of buckthorn 
have almoft always four feeds, the ber- 
ries of the frangula two, and thofe of 
the cornus fcemina only one. Buck- 
thorn berries, bruifed on white paper, 
give it a green tincture, which the o- 
thers do not. Thofe who fell the juice 
to the apothecaries, are faid to mix 
with it a large proportion of water. 

Buckthorn berries have a faint dif- 
agreeable fmell, and a naufeous bitter 
tafte. They have long been in consi- 
derably 



B U C 



B tJ 2 



^- 



^> 






•ierable efteem as cathartics ; and ce- 
lebrated in dropfies, rheumatifms,and 
even in the gout ; though in thefe ca- 
fes, they have no advantage above o- 
ther purgatives, and are more offen- 
sive, and operate more churlifhly, than 
many which the fhops are furnifhed 
with; they generally occafion gripes, 
ficknefs, dry the mouth and throat, and 
leave a thirft of long duration. The 
dofe is about twenty of the frefh ber- 
ries in fubftance, and twice or thrice 
this number in decoction, an ounce of 
the expreffed juice, or a dram of the 
dried berries. A fyrup prepared from 
the juice is kept in the fhops j in this 
preparation, the naufeous flavour of 
the buckthorn is fomewhat alleviated, 
by the fugar and the addition of aro- 
matics. 

BUCKWHEAT, the name of a 
plant generally confidered as a fpecies 
of corn, though not fuch in fad ; nor 
does it grow like any of the efculent 
grains. Its leaf, from being reundifh 
at firft, takes nearly the fhape of that 
of ivy, but longer pointed, and much 
fofter. Its ftalk is round, hoilow, and 
weak, fometimes reddifh, but moft 
commonly green, and growing to the 
height of about two feet and a half. 
Lateral branches, which fhoot out al- 
moft at every joint, aie terminated by 
purplifh flowers, which are fucceeded 
by fmall triangular feeds, black on the 
outfide, and white within. 

Buck-wheat will grow on the moft 
barren lands, and this is one of its 
great ufes to the farmer. The dryeft 
and worft will afford it nourishment* 
If he have a piece of almoft heathy 
land, or of naked gravel, or in the 
ftone countries, one of thofe lands 
where chips and fragments of ftone 
make up, in a manner, the whole fur- 
face, buckwheat will grow on any of 
them. It requires little preparation, 
and needs not be fown till very late ; 
fo that every way it recommends itfelf 
to his regard. 

When he has fixed upon a piece of 
ground, fo poor that it will bear no- 
thing elfe; or one that may, by this 
means be rendered fit for Something 
better, his next thing is_ to Seek for good 
feed. 

He is to chufe the faireft and found- 
eft he can get, fuch as is dry and of a 
bright colour is bell; but this is in 
general a feed in which there is kfs ha- 
zard than moft others. 



The quantity is to be very different 
according to the defign of fowing; for 
when buck-wheat is raifed for feed, a 
fmall number of plants well nouriSh- 
ed is what the farmer is to defire; but 
when it is fown only to be ploughed 
in as a manure, the feed being not at 
all concerned in this matter, the larger 
a quantity there is upon the ground 
the better. 

When buck-wheat is raifed for the 
feed a bufheL is fufficient for an acre; 
bu.t on the other hand, when it is meant 
by way of preparation for another crop, 
four bufhels to the acre is no . all 
too much. The time of Sowing buck- 
wheat as already obferved, is later tha» 
that of almoft any other crop. The 
beginning of May is the earlieft it 
Should be put into the ground : the 
middle of that month is a better time, 
and it will do to the very latter end. 
Buck-wheat being a native of very 
warm climates, does not bear cold, 
and it is fo quick a grower that it needs 
not be fown early in the feafon; for 
when got into the ground toward the 
end of May, it will very well ripea 
during the Summer feafon. 

After buck- wheat is in the ground, 
there requires no particular care to be 
taken of it. The common and fami- 
liar method of ploughing and harrow- 
ing, and that in the flighted manner, 
covers it, and it will Shoot at its owo 
time, let the weather be what it will : 
Rain or dry makes very little difference. 
When once cut up it grows apace. 
The Sort of grounds allowed to it does 
not favour the growth of weeds, like 
richer land, nor do they grow fo quick 
upon it; fo that the buck-wheat thri- 
ving ap3ce, quickly gets the better of 
them. In this condition it will conti- 
nue growing up till it comes to flower- 
ing, unleSs the intent of the farmer be. 
to plough it in fooner. 

BeSide the two ufes of buck-wheac 
in the feed, and in ploughing into the 
ground, it has another very considera- 
ble one, which is, the being eaten by- 
cattle. This is the more important, 
becauSe it comes in at a time when o- 
ther provender is Scarce, the grafs being 
burnt up by the heat ; and the horned 
cattle at this time, toward the end of 
Summer, being generally in great want 
of good frefh food. The buck-wheat 
being then juft coming into bloSTom, 
the cows are very fond of it; and ]"• is 

an 



b tr c 



B U D' 



an excellent nourifhment, rich and 
wholefome, making them yield a great 
quantity of milk, and not giving it any 
difagreeable tafte. There is no better 
butter or cheefe than fuch as is made 
of their milk when they have fed in 
this manner. 

If the farmer intends his crop for 
this ufe, he mufl fow it thicker than 
for feed, but not fo thick as when he 
intends it for ploughing in ; two bufh- 
els and a half of feed to an acre will 
yield a very good growth for this pur- 
pofe. 

After the cows have eaten it down, 
the ftuoble may be ploughed in, and 
the land will do for a crop of corn. 
It is not fo well as when the large full 
grown crop, town for that purpcfc, is 
ploughed in entire, that being the belt 
method of making this crop proper for 
wheat. 

When this has been the intent of 
fowing, the crop is to ftand till full 
grown and in flower, but not till the 
feed is formed. Juft before that it is 
in the richeft condition for. manure, 
and that opportunity is to be taken. 

When the feed is the point in view, 
and the field has been fown fgariogly 
tor that purpofe, the plants will be 
much ftronger, and they will ripen a 
great deal. 

At this time the farmer is to watch 
when moftis lipe and none fallen, and 
then he is to get in his harveft. 

Buck-wheat may ftand longer than 
almoft any kind of crop for this pur- 
pofe, for none hclds tne feed fo firmly. 
But ftill there is to be fome regard to 
the ripenefs ; and when but little is 
left that can come to good, the whole 
is to be cut, that more than its value 
be not loft in waiting for it. 

The way of gathering it is by mow- 
ing; and when down it is to lay fome 
days in the air before it is houfed; 
there is no great danger of accidents 
during this time, for fcarce any thing 
is fo hardy. When the ftalks are 
grown limber, and the grain firm, it is 
to be carried in and thrafhed. The 
produce is very great. Fifty bufhels 
for an acre may be had from very mo- 
derate land, and much more is com- 
mon from fuch as is anything rich. 

The ufes of the feed are many, it 
ferves excellently for hogs, who are 
fond of it, and fatten very we'll upon 
it: many kinds of poultry alfo like it 5 



and in fome countries it is eaten by 
the poorer people, made into a kind of 
pancake, with fome wheat flower a- 
mong it. It is a thu'vingfood forhor- 
fes. But it mould be broke in 3 mill 
before they have it, oihcrwife the {km 
is fo tough it paffes through them with- 
out doing them any good. Cattl e will #/ 
alfo eat theilraw, but it is not nearly" " 
fo nourifliing as the grain. 

BUD, that part of the feed which 
fir ft begins to fprout, or rather the 
leaves which firft appear. 

Buo, alfo fignifies the fprout from 
whence the branch arifes. Thefe buds 
in fome meafure refemble feeds, as un- 
der a number of fcaly coverings the 
rudiments of the young branch are 
feen : but neither tiie lobes nor the 
young root are met with ; becaufe thi= 
tender Item is connected with a tree, 
which fupplies it with tile neceffary 
food. 

Bun is likewifeufed in fome coun- 
ties of England for a weaned calf of — 
the firft year ; becaufe the horns are 
tlien in the hud. 

EUDDLEJ A. Thefe plants grow na- 
turally in Jamaica and Carthagena,they 
may be propagated by feeds, which 
fhould be brought over in their cap- 
fules or pods, for thofe which are fa- 
lien out before they are fent to England 
feldom grow. They fhould be fown 
in pots as foon as they arrive, and very 
lightly Covered ; for as the feeds are 
fmall, fo if they are buried deep in the 
ground they will pefilh. The pots 
fhould be plunged into a moderate 
hot-bed. If the feeds are frefh and 
good, the p anu will come up in about 
fix weeks; and if they grow kindly, 
will be large enough to tranfplant in 
about a month after. Then they fhould 
be carefully feparated, and each plant- 
ed into a feparate fmall pot, and plun- 
ged into the hot-bed a^iin, obferving 
to fhade them from the fun until they 
have taken new root. Aftertheplants 
have taken frefh roots in the pots, 
there fhould be frefh air admitted to 
them every day, in proportion to the 
warmth of the feafon ; they muft alfo 
be frequently, but moderately refrefh- 
ed with water. When the plants iiave 
filled thefe fmall pots with their roots, 
it will be propor to fhift them into pots 
onefize larger, that they may hav,; time 
to take good root again before the cold 
weather comes on. When thefe are 
ne\p 



B U L 



B U £ 



new potted, the tan fhould be turned 
over to renew the heat, and if it is 
wanted, fome frefh tan muft be added 
to the bed, to encourage the roots of 
the plants. In this bed they may re- 
main till autumn, when they mult be 
removed into the ftove, and plunged 
into the tan-bed, where they muft 
conftantly remain, for they are too 
tender to thrive in this country if they 
are not fo treated. During the winter 
they muft have but little water, and 
fhould be kept warm; but in fummer 
they fhould have frefh air admitted to 
them conftantly when the weather is 
warm, and be frequently fprinkled all 
Over with water. With this manage- 
ment, the plants will flower the third 
or fourth year from feeds, and conti- 
nue fo to do every year after, and will 
make a good appearance in the ftove. 

BUGLE, [BuguJa] Middle Confound, 
There are feveral forts of this plant, 
growing in wood* in England, on the 
Alps, and feveral parts of France and 
Germany; they may be propagated by 
feeds or by fide fhoots. The leaves 
have at firft a fweetifh tafte, which gra- 
dually becomes bitterifh and ftyptic. 
They are recommended as vulnerary 
medicines, and in all cafes where mild 
aftringents are proper. 

BUCLOSS, [Buglo/urn] This is a 
rough, hairy plant, refembling borage, 
but lefs prickly : a wild fort is com- 
monly met within hedges, and among 
corn, which differs from the garden 
only in being fmaller. Buglofs has a 
glutinous, fweetifh tafte, accompanied 
with a fenfeof coolnefs : the roots are 
the molt glutinous, and the flowers 
the leaft fo. The qualities point out 
its u'fe in hot, bilious, or inflammatory 
diftempers, and a thin acrimonious 
ftate of the fluids. The flowers are 
one of the four called cordial flowers : 
the only quality they have that can en- 
title them to this appellation, is, that 
they moderately cool and foften, with- 
out offending the palate or ftomach ; 
and thus in warm climates, or in hot 
difeafes, in fome meafure refrefh the 
patient. 

BULB, or Bulbous Root, a- 
mong gardeners, fignifies a root of a 
roundifh form, and commonly fur- 
nifhed with fibres at its bafe. An 
uniform bulb, is when it is compofed 
of the fame matter throughout, with- 
out any lines intervening 5 a truncated 



bulb confifts of many coats furround- 
ing each other, as in the narciffiis, tu- 
lip, onion, &c. A fquamous bulb 
confifts of many fcales lying over 
each other like the tiles on a houfe, or 
the fcales of fifties, as the roots of the 
lily, martagon, &c. 

BULBOCODIUM. Thefpecies are, 
ift, Bulbocodium with narrow-fhaped 
leaves, growing naturally on the Alps, 
and Snowdon Hill in Wales ; the 2d, 
with fpear-fhaped leaves, is a native 
of Spain. They are both bulbous 
roots, and are propagated by off-fets, 
in the fame manner as other bulbous- 
rooted flowers. The time to remove 
them is foon after their leaves decay, 
but the roots may be kept out of the 
ground two months without prejudice 
at that feafon. They fhould not be 
removed oftener than every third year, 
for their roots do not multiply very 
faft, fo by fuffering them to remain,; 
they will flower much ftronger, and 
make a greater increafe than if they 
are often taken up. 

BULL, the rhsde of the cow. For 
the fhape of your bull, he fhould be 
one of a fharp, quick countenance, his 
forehead broad and curled, his eyes 
black and large, his horns long, his 
neck fiefhy, his belly long and large, 
his hair fmooth like velvet, his breafl 
big, his back ftraight.and flat, his but- 
tocks fquare, his thighs round, his 
legs ftraight, and his joints fhort. This 
fort of bull is the beft for breed, and 
makes the beft ©xen for draught. 

BULL ACE-TREE. A wild plumb, 
growing in many parts of England, of 
which there are .two forts, one white, 
the other black. 

BULLEN, hemp ftalks ftripped of 
the bark. 

BULLS-FOOT. Colts-fooT. 

BULL WEED, Great Knap- 
weed, or Matfellon, the name of 
a perennial weed common among 
corn : it rifes to about two feet high: 
the ftalks are round, ftreaked, and 
hoary : the bottom leaves are oblong 
and undivided, but thofe which grow 
on the ftalk are cut and divided. The 
flowers refemble thofe of the blue-bottle 
in fhape, but are of a red colour. The 
feed is fmall, oblong, reddifh, and 
hairy in the upper part. 

BUNIAS. There are two or three 
forts of this plant, brought from the 

T Levant 



B R 



BUR 



Jevant and South of France. They 
are all propagated by feed. 

BURNBAK.ING, or Burnbeat- 
jnc ; burning of tand for corn, This 
irt, ufually called Denfhiring, quaft 
Devonflnring, or Denbighfhiring, (as 
being there moft ufed or invented) is not 
applicable or neceflary to all forts of 
lands, but that which is barren, four, 
heathy, or rufhy, being either hot or 
cold, wet or dry, infomuch that moll 
Of them will yield in two or three 
years after fuch burning, more above 
charges than the inheritance was worth 
before. The common method for it 
is; with a breaft-plougivtopareoffthe 
turf, turning it over as it is cut that it 
may dry the better, which it yet need 
not in a hot feafon, but otherwife the 
turf muft be turned and fet a little 
hollow, that it may dry the better j 
and when it is thoroudilydty, let them 
be lad on fmall heaps; about two 
wheelbarrow load together, ami tKertj 
if the tuif be full of fibrous roots, or 
bath a good head upon it, it will burn 
without any additional fuel ; if not, 
the heap muft be raifed on a fmall 
bundle of lint:, goft, fern, or the like, 
that will fet the whole on fire ; and 
when reduced to afhes, let them lie 
till they be a little foddened with rain 
before thWy are fpread. or eife tnkt £j 
ftill time, that the wind may not watte 
the afhes, nor hinder their equal fcat- 
terins : Care muft be had that the 
turf be not over burnt ; for if it be re- 
duced into white afhes, the nitrous 
fait will be waited, and the flower the 
fire is. the better the fait is fixt ; the 
ground alfo under the hills muft be 
pared fomewhat lower than the fur- 
face cf the earth,, to abate the over- 
fertility caufed by the fire there; nei- 
ther muft the land be ploughed but 
fhallow, and not above the ufuai quan- 
tity of feed fown i:* an acre, and that 
alfo late in the year, (if wheat, towards 
tlie end of October) to prevent the ex - 
ceflive ranknefs or greathefs of the 
corn, whereby the advantage of burn- 
ing land may be judged, and this alfo 
on the pooreft plains or heaths. 

Some with the parings of the earth 
burn the roots of their gofs, broom, 
and the like, which they have flubbed 
up, as others do the ftubble they can 
rak« up $ another way is to pare off 
the heath or turf, and having made 
them into little hills, fire and bum 



them into afhes, and into every one rd 
put a peck of unflack'ed lime, which is 
to be covered over with the afhes, and 
fo let to ftand till rain comes and 
flackens the lime, alter which both 
are to be mingled together and fpread 
over the land. 

Burning of meadows or pafture la r,d. 
In feveral paits where the ground is 
moift, cold, clayey, rufhy, or moift; 
or fuhjeel to fuch incenveniences that 
Che palture or hay is lhort, four, and 
not improveable, it is very good huf- 
bandry to pare off the turf about July 
or Auguif, and burn the fame after 
the manner fpecified in burning of 
land for corn, and then let it be plow- 
ed up immediately, or the following 
fpring; and fowetl with hay-duff, ■ 
or with corn and hay duft together i 
whereby that acid juice- which lay orV 
tbe fu;:ace cf the earth that was of a 
fteriie nature, and hindered the growth 
of the vegetables, will be evaporated 
away, and aifo the grafs which had a- 
long time degenerated, by ftanding in 
a poor foil, be totally deftroyed, and 
lire land made fertile and capable to 
receive a better fpectes of feed, brought 
from other fertile meadows. 

BURR-TREE. The Elder-trxi. 

BURDOCK, [Arfrum] As theft- 
plants are feldom admitted into gar- 
dens, fo it is needlcfs to fay any thing 
of their culture ; but where they are 
trcublefome weeds, it may not be 
amifs to mention that their roots lift 
but two years, fo they may b: deftroyed 
with lefs trouble than fuch as have 
abiding roots : for the plants which 
come up from feed do not flower till 
the fecond year, and when the feeds 
are perfected their roots decay. 

BURNET, [Pimftnella, Trageftlinum] 
Of this plant are three forts, i. the 
greater burnet, with a white umbel. 
2. Another greater burnet. 3. The 
leffer burnet. They are all hardy 
plants, and natives of this ifland. 

The difcovciing a winter pabulum 
for cattle, was thought to be an object 
highly meriting the attention of the 
Society for the encouragement of arts, 
&c. Tlieir fecretary was directed to 
write to the perfons diftlnguifhed for 
knowledge in matters of this kind in 
every part of Europe, to enquire what 
was the practice in their refpedtive 
countries as to this point, and likewife 
to beg their'wwn private opinions re- 
garding 



B U R 



B V & 



garding it. Their anfwers fupplied 
but little light, by no means affording 
thefo much wifhed for information. 

The late Mr. Rocque, a gar«jener, 
offered burnet, as being peculiarly 
fuited to this purpofe, from its hatdi- 
riefs in retaining its vegetation invvm. 
ter, its early growth in the fprin^, and 
its copious produft in fumnier. The 
Society having feen fpecimens of the 
plant at different feafons of the year, 
were led to believe. that burnet would 
prove a winter food for cattle, and ac- 
cordingly offered premiums tor the 
cultivating of it. Thefe prcmiumshad 
thedefired effect, and burner was cul- 
tivated both in drill and b:oad-calt, in 
many parts of the kingdom. 

Farmers are however much more 
likely to adopt the broad-caft than the 
drill; and this or any other plant can 
be of little advantage to the nation till 
its cultivation be generally adopted by 
farmers. 

The land on which it is fown fhould 
be in fine order, laid down very fmooth, 
and as free a.s pofhbie from weeds, ef- 
pecially couch-grafs. It mould be 
well harrowed with a clofe-tincd 
harrow, and care taken to extiipace 
all weeds. About fourteen pounds 
of burnet feed are ufually fown on 
an acre. Half this quantity would 
be nearly or quite fufficient it the 
feed was good, which it feldoni is- 
Jt may be fown at any time from April 
to Augufl, and then covered with a 
light harrow. B.ut Augufl is in gene- 
ral the belt time, as it will not require 
to be weeded fo often, and will cover 
the ground like a carpet by Chriftmas, 
and be early for pafture the next 
fpring; befides, its growth is more un- 
certain when fown in the fpring. It 
preferves its verdure all the winter, 
continuing to grow (though flowly) 
without receiving any injury from froft 
or fnow, however fevere. There is a 
wild burnet, that does not live through 
the winter, which fome have miAaken 
for this plant. Great care rrm A he ta- 
ken to keep it free from weeds thefirft 
year ; the fecond year it will be fo lux- 
uriant and bufhy, as to keep itfelf 
free from weeds, by choaking them. 

Its cultivation is neither hazardous 
nor expenfive ; it grows faft even in 
dry weather, and will certainly perfect 
its feed twice in one fummer, and com- 
monly lafts fix years. 



From various trials it appears, tbat 
burnet may be fown vdthfpring.com, 
without any injury to the crop, arjdis 
thereby kept much freer from weeds j 
hence it opens a very profitable me« 
thod of procuring a quantity of excel- 
lent winter foocfisr fheep or neat cat- 
tle ; and there is perhaps no grafs cul- 
tivated which .conduces more to pre- 
ferve fheep from the rot, or to cure 
them when jult tainted, than burnet; 
of which we could give well-attefted 
proofs. 

The mod proper time to cut it for 
hay, is as foon as the plant is in bit om , 
for the Aalks, when it Hands for feed, 
become dry, hard, and fticky, and of 
courfe the hay muit be bnt Indifferent, 
when compared with that which is 
made while the ftalk is tender and 
juicy. 

Burnet is very wholefome and nou- 
rifhjng for horfes, fheep, cows, and 
pigs, and affords both corn and hay, 
the feeds being little, if at all, inferior 
to fome of the Welfh oats. It makes 
good butter, and never blows or hoves 
cattle. It will flourifh on light, ftony, 
gravelly, flinty, or chalky foils. It may 
likewife be tranfplanted like lucerne, 
and will grow faft after transplanta- 
tion, even if the weather fhould prove 
to be dry. 

It very frequently happens that everjr 
farmer who fows many acres with tur- 
nips, 'has feveral worth little or no- 
thing ; the fly, the dolphin, the black 
caterpillar, the dry weather, or fome 
unknown caufe, often defeating the 
mdullry and expence of the moft fltil- 
ful farmer. . It would be advifeable for 
him to Cow it vyith burnet, and ip 
March ami April following, he wjjl 
have a fine pafture for his fheep and 
iambs. 

Burnet is a native of England, and 
will certainly perfect its feed twice in 
one fummer ; and a farmer, with a 
fmall plantation, may fupply himfelf 
with feed of his own growth at a very 
little or no expence. He may then be 
encouraged to make experiments on 
various feafons, without much lofs or 
damage. 

When jt is thought proper to feed 
jt, we would earneftjy recommend the 
farmer to hurdle it off, or to turn in 
a large ftock to eat it off in a fhort 
time j otherwife the fheep or cattle will 
feed on the youn^ and tender moots? 
T % an* 



BUR 

ind do great injury, to the crop by 
trampling on it ; this hint fhould be 
adopted in all fimilar cafes, for the 
grafs will fhoot again much, foorier by 
being fed off quick and clofe. 

It mult not however be diffembled, 
that in fome places both horfes, cattle, 
and fheep, absolutely refufe to touch 
burnet, and will fooner ftarve than 
eat it ; while in others they will eat it 
very greedily. It may therefore be 
proper to intimate, that an experi- 
ment fhould be tried upon a fmall 
plot of land before the farmer engages 
. too far in its cultivation. This extreme 
fondnefs or diflike in cattle, is hitherto 
unaccounted for ; but is generally 
fupjjofed to be Owing to the plants 
imbibing a difagreeable taint from the 
foil in which it grows. 

Thpugh it may be prefumed rn ge- 
neral, that animals,' by inftindt, chufe 
thofe plants which are falutary, and 
rejeeVthe hurtful ones, yet experience 
. fufficiently fhews, that this rule is not 
invariable, nor is inltincl always in- 
fallible, among' domeltic animals at 
leaft ; which having but little free- 
dom of choice in their food, have their 
tafte in all probability depraved as 
much as that of the human fpecies. 
Every farmer knows that fome cows 
will not at firfttouch turnips, and that 
many take to them with reluctance ; 
and yet it is equally well known, that 
there is fcarcely any kind of green food 
more nourishing, or more palatable, to 
both fheep and cattle, after they have 
been once accufhomed to eat them. 

On the other hand, their freely eat- 
ing plants which are at firft offered 
them, does not in every i.nftance af- 
ford a certain proof cf the plant's being 
Either wholefome, or even innocent. 
Linnasus obferves, that animals which 
have been ufed to feed in the open 
fields, are commonly hurt when put 
into woodlands, by eating plants that 
are pernicious, which the cattle that 
were bred in them have learned by ex- 
perience to avoid. Here then it is ex- 
perience and not inftirift that guards 
J v ..»■ from danger; 

S *^-.r-> BURNT-GRAIN^diftemperccm- 
>■>* |J 'V, mem to corn, and too often confound- 
[ n'a fed with fmut, though it is, in fa£t,verv 
' ^" ^ different, and much more dangerous. 
, , f i The fmut, properlylb called, occa- 
* fions the total lofs of the diftempered 
,K-> «arsj but as the black duft is very 



BUR 

fine, and the particles of it have no 
cohefion, the wind and rain carry it 
off, fo that fcarcely any thing is houfed 
in the barn, &c. 

The burnt-grain is, on the contrary, 
e»ften laid in the granary with that 
which is found, to which it communU 
cates a contagious diftemper, and alfo 
darkens the flour, and gives it a bad 
fmell. 

The characters of this diftemper are, 
i. The plants that produce burnt 
ears are ftrong and vigorous. 

_ z. The infedled ears are not at firfl 
diltinguifliable from thofe that are 
healthy j but when they are part their 
bloom, they appear of a deep green co- 
lour, approaching to blue j they after- 
wards become whitifh, and are then 
eafily known. As this change of co- 
lour is effeded by the fun, when a 
number of white ears have been fud- 
denly perceived in looking over a 
wheat-field, the fun's heat has been 
often thought to caufe this diftemper, 
or a fog preceding the heat. 

3. Though all the ears produced 
from one grain are commonly infefted, 
yet M. Tillet, Aimen, and others have 
met with found ears on plants that 
had produced others which were in- 
fected. They have even found ears, 
part of which only were vitiated, and 
finally fome grains enclofing partly a 
white flour, the remainder black duft. 

4. In burnt ears, the chaff, or out- 
ward coat, was commonly found, with 
this fingle difference, that when the 
ears were near ripe, it appeared more 
withered and dry than in the healthy 
ears. 

5. The bran which Immediately en- 
closed the grain, is not deftroyed, as it 
is in the fmut, properly fo called j 
but has confiftence enough for the 
grain to preferve nearly its natural 
form, with a whitifh look. 

6. The bumt-gfains are fhorter, 
roAider, and lighter than fuch as are 
uninfected : they arefpmetimes larger, 
fometimes fmalier. The furrow which 
runs the length pf a grain of wheat is 
fometirpls totally effaced, at others 
isviiible: the piftils at'the extremity 
of the grains are dried up. 

x 7. The bud of burnt-grains is not 
vifible. 

8. Till the blooming feafon, there is 
very little difference betwixt the burnt- 
grain and that which i« healthy ;■ they 

are 



V 



X 



BUR 



BUR 



are only a little mbrefwelled. But in 
the blooming feafon the infected ears 
affume a biuifti colour j the chaff is 
more or iefs fpecked with fmall white 
fpots : the grains are of a deeper green, 
and larger than in a ftate of nature J 
and, as long as they preferve that co- 
lour, they adhere ftrongl/ to the chaff. 
The diftemper has often attacked very 
young ears, while yet enclofed in the 
fheath. The ftamina or the fides of 
the grain are then dried up and fickly ; 
the embrio in part takes the deep green 
colour above mentioned ; the infected 
ears have not the confirtence of thofe 
that are healthy : in the fame meafure 
the diftemper advances, the chaff be- 
comes dry and whitifh. 

9. The grains have fome degree of 
firmnefs. On opening them, which 
may eafily be done with the nail, there 
appears an unctuous, dark, brown, 
(linking fubftance, not at all refem- 
bling the light duft of fmutty ears ; 
the duft of burnt-grain has fome co- 
hefion, and through a microfcope ap- 
pears to confift of larger particles than 
that of the fmutty ears. 

10. Some time before the blooming 
feafon, the grains appear to be filled 
with a whitifh fubflance, a little burnt 
towards the bottom, and this colour 
extends by degrees over the whole ear : 
the grain then appears divided, as it 
were, into equal quarters by furrows 5 
which difappear as the grain increafes 
in fize. 

11. By what has been faid, it is 
evident that fmut infects corn much 
fooner than the burnt-grain. 

12. Grains that are much burnt are 
evidently incapable of fprouting. But 
fome found grains have been taken 
from an ear greatly burnt, which, in 
a kitchen garden, have produced very 
ftrong plants 5 and though the birds 
difturbed the experiments, it appeared 
clearly that there were fome found 
ears amongfl many more that were in- 

. fected. 

13. A part of the burnt-grain is 
bruifed by the flail, and their black 
duft is fcattered over the found grain ; 
this unctuous duft chiefly fticks to the 
hairy extremity of the grain ne.ir the 
bud j it there forms a black fpot. 
Corn fo affected,, is called [petted grain : 
many of the grains which efcape the 
flail remain entire, on account of their 
lightnefs j a great deal is feparated by 



■throwing, but the fpotted grain remain* 
as well as many that are burnt \ and 
this is enough to darken the flour, and 
give it a bad tafte. 

14. To remedy this inconvenience, 
and make the belt breiM, they pafs 
the; corn through the dn:m-fieves, 
(oibles a -tambour) made of pierced iron- 
plates, like the graters with which 
they rafp tobacco ; the corn is then 
wafhed, and all the light grains that 
fwim, fkimmed off, which are moflly 
burnt. The water takes off the fpots, 
which are but fuperficial ; for if a 
fpotted grain is wiped, the fpot imme- 
diately difappears. 

With refpedl to the caufe of this 
diftemper, we are hitherto as much 
at a lofs as in the cafe of fmut. Some 
have attributed it to dung; others to 
fogs ; many to the heat of the fun ; 
fome to infects ; others to the moif- 
ture of the land ; and not a few to 
the feed not being ripe : but thefe 
opinions are confuted by good obfer- 
vations,and by experiments very care- 
fully made. 

It may feem improbable that a mere 
fuperficial duft, that only flicks to the 
bran, without penetrating the grain, 
fhould be fo contagious as to infect all 
the grain it touches\with a diftemper; 
what is more furprifing is, that it 
fhould injure the organs of fructifica- 
tion only. Yet, however improbable 
this may appear, the experiments made 
by Monf. Tillet put it pall a doubt; 
they fhew that the farmers are not 
without reafon cautious in avoiding to 
fow fpotted grain. 

As it would take up too much room 
to mention, at large, ali the experi- 
ments made by M. Tillet r which are 
to be found in the papers publifhed by 
him on that fubject, we fhall content 
ourfelves with relating the refult of 
thefe experiments, and the inferences 
this able naturalift draws from them. 
Several writers haying mentioned d ung 
as the immediate caufe of this diftem- 
per, and others having afferted that it 
was hereditary, all M. Tillet's expe- 
. riments w.ere calculated to clear up 
thefe two points. He was at the fame 
time jn hopes, by means of the fame exe- 
periments, of finding, fome method of 
guarding againft this terrible diftemper. 

1. The fe.verai kinds of dung had no 

vifibje effect in producing .burnt-grain. 

The infected feed produced as much 

. burnt- 



BUR 



BUR 



feurnt-gralo in the gro and that was not 
<Junged as in that which was. He did 
not find that dung had any effect, 
either in favour of, or sgajnft the dif- 
temper. 

?. Dung made of ftraw of the in- 
fected grain did rot feem to communi- 
tfie diftemper j Vr_u trie infected 
llraw . feeined to communi- 

cate it. Yet the ef&ct was moft vifible 
when the duft pi burnt-ears was mix- 
td with the earth. 

3. Allgrain naturally fpotted, whe- 
ther it grew on the land, or was brought 
from another place, bearded-wheat, 
fummer-wheat, and wheat without 
awns, produced .a great deal of burnt- 
grain. 

4. Picked whe.ir, taken from the 
r.rieft ears, am! carefuUy fslected grain 
fcy grain, that none of it might be in- 
fected, being fowed, fome in dunged, 
and the reft in undunged beds, with- 
out having received any preparation, 
yielded little or no burnt-grain. 

5. Some of this fame picked wheat 
fceing fprinkied with the duft of burnt- 
grain, produced as many diftempered 
«ars as that which was naturally 
fpotted. 

6. The picked wheat, being pre- 
pared with lime and a folution of fea- 
falt, yielded ftill fewer infected ears 
than when unprepared. 

7. There were (till fewer from what 
?ras prepared with, lime and nitre. 

8. Early or fate lowing feVmed to be 
a matter of indifference. 

9. It appears by Kf. Tillet's experi- 
ments, feveral times repeated, that the 
duft of burnt ears is contagious, fince 

"Sound wheat fprinkied with it, or (ow- 
ed in rills in which that duft had been 
put, produced 3 great number of in- 
jected ears. lie a!fo found that this 
«hjft, though expofed to a ftrong heat, 
as of fixty degrees, is ftill contagious, 
cnlcfs it is ibUrlutely burnt by the fire, 
w (en it has not that effect. Though 
it is kept .for years', its infetlious qua- 
lity continues as ftrong as ever. 

10. Seme farmers wafh the fack in 
which they put their feed. And it ap- 
pears by M. Tiilet's experiments, that 
>hey are in the right; for if the facks 
nad any of the duft on them, it would 
certainly inject fome of the feed corn, 

ill M. 'fillet thinks he has obferved, 
that the infected plants are more fuf- 



ceptible of injury from froft than 
others. 

If this is the cafe, hard frofts muft 
be ferviceable, fince by deftroying the 
infected plants, they would have the 
fame effect, as if fuch plants had all 
been pulled up. The land being cleared 
of thefe ufeltfs plants, would be better 
able to fupply fuch as are found irh 
nourifhmen: and the crop Would be 
exempt from infected ears, which are 
a great hurt to it. 

12. The black du ift fo. contagious, 
is not fo to rfye or here ; but the duft 
of darnel is pernicious to wheat. 

13. Smyrna wheat is Ids fubject to 
this diftemper than other grain; but 
fummer wheat is greatly injured by ir„ 

It muft be allowed that the know- 
ledge which has been acquired of the 
caufe of this diftemper, has put the 
curious obfervers in a train of finding 
proper prefervatives. In fact, as the 
duft of burnt-grain infects all the grain 
it touches, it is probable that every 
method fhould be deemed efficacious, 
that is capable of taking away this 
duft, provided the virus has not from 
its firlt contact affected the interior 
part of the feed intended to be fowed. 
In this cafe the feveral fieves which 
we have recommended to be u fed in 
the prefervation of corn, and the warn- 
ings with fair water, which in many 
places is ufed on fpotted grain, may 
be mentioned as efficacious preferva- 
tives, as well as lime-water which 
our farmers ufe, the ftrong brine ufed 
in fome p/ovinces in France, and the 
folution of arfenic, of which fome per- 
fons ha,ve made fuch a fecret. All 
thefe preparations fhould be of fervice ; 
and, according to M. Tillet's experi- 
ments, they are fo : yet they are often 
infurhcient. Tin's point, therefore, me- 
rited to be cleared up by particular ex- 
periments, and with all neceffary care, 
M. Tillet fet abeut it with fpirit, and 
the following are the inferences that 
may be drawn. 

1. The effect of the black duft on 
the feed is only fuperficia! till it is put 
into the earth, not at all affecting the 
interior parts. 

2. Therefore every means that can 
tend to clear them of the duft, muft be 
of fervice to keep them healthy, and 
free from the diftemper. 

3. Crain perfectly free from this, 

ancV 



BUR 

■tnd from rottennefs, will yield nodif 
tempered plants. 

4. Grain blackened with this infec- 
tious diift, may be made healthy by 
clearing it of fuch duft. 

5. Sifting feed, and wafliing it in 
feveral waters, leffen, it is true, the 
«ffe£ts of the contagion ; but this is 
not fufficknt, as many infected plants 
will be produced, though the feed was 
wafhed in ftveral waters. 

6. Lime, which is more e/ficacious 
than water, is not always enough fo. 
We fhall obferveon this occafion, that 
feed was formerly limed in a manner 
different from what it is now. The 
feed was then put into bafkets, which 
were plunged into lime water very 
hot. The feed was ftined in the baf- 
kets, and all that fwam on the water 
was taken out with a cullender ; by 
this means they got rid of the infected 
grain ; and the good {eed was better 
cleaned, than by only throwing, as 
they do now, lime-water on a heap of 
feed, which is then ftirred with a fho- 
vel, or by only mixing the fetd with 
flacked lime reduced to powder. 

One of our farmers, a careful man, 
being obliged one year to fow fpotted 
feed, he limed it by immerfion, in the 
manner abeve defcribed ; and the year 
following had no burnt grain. 

Someexperiments made in the coun- 
try of Caux, by M. de Goufreville, 
have been published ; they evince the 
good effects of lime ufed in the manner 
we have mentioned. And what is ftiil 
a farther confirmation of this is, chat 
whenever our farmers fow feed that 
has not been limed, their fields are 
amazingly infected. 

7. It is a good precaution to wafh 
fpotted grain in feveral waters ; but it 
Should be fpaked in brine, and this 
brine fhould be abforbed by lime, by 
immerfion, as we have defcribed. 

A ftrong brine of fea-falt is very 
good, and may be employed to great 
advantage in countries where fait is 
a merchandize. 

9. One part of nitre to nine parts 
water is more efficacious than fea- 
falt j this, therefore, fhould be ufed 
where nitrous earths abound. 

10. Strong alkaline lyes are ftill 
better; falt-wort, per-afh, afhes of 
tartar, lyes of common afhes much 
impiegnated with faltandhuman urine, 
or cows urine alkalifed by putrefaction ; 



BUR 

of thefe various articles, fuch may be 
chofen as are moft common. For 
ififtance, in Normandy afhes of fea- 
wreck, which are very cheap there, 
may be ufed. This, which is rejected 
for dying and lyes, as being mere im- 
pregnated than alkaline with tea fait, 
may be advantageoufly ufed in the ^re- 
paration of Ceed. 

11. As it is evident that feed picked 
with care yields very few infected 
grains, it mwft, of cct'rfe, wner* a 
farmer has fpctted giain, be of great 
advantage to him to change his feed 
in order to procure what is uninfected, 

12. M.Tillct's procefs may- be com- 
prehended in what follows : it the 
feed i3 fpctted, it mould rml be waihed 
in feverai clear waters, till the biack 
is quite got effj it fhculd then be put 
into the fteep. If it is not f,,otted, 
foaking it in the following liquor will 
be enough. Make fome lye, fuch as 
is ufed for linen, in a bucking-tub, 
putting four pound of water to'every 
pound of afhes. If cne hundred pened* 
of alhes are ufed, and four hundred 
pounds of water, there will be two 
hundred and forty pounds cf lye, to 
which mull be added fifteen pounds cf 
lime, which will be enough to prepare 
fixty French bulhefs of wheat (between 
fixteen and feventeen bufheb English 
meafure). When this fteep is to be 
ufed, it muft be heated as hot as ycu 
can bear your hand in it ; the feed be- 
ing put into bafkets, muft be plunged 
into it, and flirted with a ftick ; the 
bafkets muft then be railed and ket>t 
up by flicks on the edge of the bucking- 
tub for the lye to drain ; the feed being 
thus prepared muft be laid on the 
floor of the granary till it is dry enough 
to fow. If it is prepared long before, 
it is wanted, it muft be, from time to 
time, ftirred with a fhovel to prevent 
its heating; with this precaution it m?v 
be kept a month, or even a whole year.. 

Some feed was prepared in this man- 
ner at M. Taponat's, near Rochefou- 
caultin 1760; and :ri 1761, the corn 
fo prepared was uninfected ; whilft in 
the neighbouring fields what was un- 
prepared, a foui til, a third, and even half 
the crops werefpoiied by this diftemper. 

All the trials that have been made 
evince, that acrid fubftances are prooer 
remedies for this diftemper : We a'lfo 
believe all the ffeeps to be good ; but 
prefer M. Tiliefs-, as being more acrid, 

and 



BUR 



BUT 



and leaf! coftly.Weimaginelyethathad 
been ufed for linen might do, only 
flren?thening it with fome fea-wreck, 
and putting twice as much lime. We 
fenow this lye to be very acrid, but can- 
not anfwer for its efficacy in preferving 
corn from being burnt, becaufe for 
feveral years pail, we have fcarcely had 
any of our grain fo much infected. 

13. Several fanners in different pro- 
vinces have ufed a folution of arfenic 
to prepare their feeds. Great com- 
plaints have been made in all quarters 
of it. Among others, a phyfician pub- 
lished an effay to fhew of hew much 
Importance it was to prohibit the ufe 
•f this poifonous ftee;\ He there enu- 
merates all the ace: 'ents that have 
happened to the fowers, and to the 
men that made ;he preparation, of 
which himfeit was a witnefs. Since 
M. Tillethas^iven us a' method fimpie 
and innocent ir itfelf, but little coftly, 
and of great efficacy to clean fpotted 
grain, it is to be prefumed that no- 
body will ufe this pernicious drug, 
from which fuch melancholy confe- 
rences mav enfoe, if by accident any 
of it mould be mixed with the m al, 
and if the light corn is given to the 
poultry orcatde ; belides, this poifoned 
feed mufl kill the partridges and pi- 
geons that eat the uncovered grain. 

As fome people are fond of making 
objections, it may, perhaps, be urged, 
that-if the black duft was fo infectious, 
this diftemper would make fiom year 
to year fuch progrefs, that in trie end 
we fhould have nothing but burnt- 
grain. But we need not be apprehen- 
sive in this refpect : and a year in 
which much corn is infedted, fucceeds 
one in which fcarcely any burnt-grain 
was to be met with. Scarcely any was 
to be found in the crops of 1754, 1760, 
and 1761. 

In reflecting en this objection, which 
bas fome weight, I think I have found 
an anfwer to it in M. Tillet's obferva- 
tions, which is, that hard winters, 
paft all doubt killing the diftempered 
plants, flop its progrefs. 

It may alfo be faid, that if this dif- 
temper is only caufed by the intedtious 
duft, how can it at firft get footing in 
a provincethatwas before unacquainted 
with it ? 

It is readily allowed that this diftem- 
per may be attributed to other caufes 



befides the black duft : but M. Tillet's 
experiments inconteftibly prove this 
duft to be contagious : and his re- 
fearches fupply us with the means of 
leffening confiderably, if not entirely 
extirpating this diftemper: thus we 
may have larger crops, better bread, 
and corn more proper for keeping. 
What a fatisfadtion mu ft it be to a man 
• to have made a difcovery fo ufeful to his 
fellow-creatures, whofe chief food is 
the feveral forts of grain ? We fhall 
foon fee whether habit, fupinenefs, and 
ili-judged ceconomy in the farmers, 
will not prevent them from reaping 
any benefit from M. Tillet's labours, 
who yet propoles to them fimpie and 
cheap methods of attaining an end 
which to them ought to be of infinite 
confequence. 

BUSH, in botany, a term ufed for 
divers forts of low growing fhrubs ; 
thus we fay a goofeberry-hufh, a cur- 
rant-bufh, afurze-bufh &c. it is alfo 
ufed when there is an affemblage of 
branches growing interwoven, or mixed 
together. 

BUSHEL, Winchefter meafure, is 
eight gallons, in fome counties nine, 
and in others twelve. 

BUTCHERS-bROOM, [Rufcus]. 
See Bay of Aiexandia. 

BU' -ER., [P.-uty,um~\ istheoilyor 
fat part of the milk, which firft fepa- 
rates of itfelf in form of cream, and 
after that needs but little trouble, at 
leaft but little art to bring it into the 
condition of an elegant, folid, yet foft 
fubftance, pleafant to the tafte, and 
fitted for many purpofes. 

Butter is made from cream by the 
affiitance of motion only : this may 
be given it any way, and provided it be 
in a proper degree, the effedt will be 
produced. This motion in the com- 
mon way of performing it is called 
churning : and the uncertainty of that 
has led theingenious to contrive many 
methods of fupplying the place of 
beating by the repeated labour of the 
hand; feme of thefe are much worfe 
than the old plain way, and there are 
others that really deferve the name of 
improvements. 

There are certain particularities re- 
lating to butter, much better known 
than underftood : it will be very well 
worth while for thofe who have the 
convenience of being upon the fpot, 



BUT 



B U f 



to endeavour to difcover the reafons. only Its being particularly well taftec*, 

In the mean time all we can do is to but that it will keep a month without 

mention the-facts. damage. The way they raife their 

Suffolk butter is famous for keep- cream for this purpofe is the fame the 

ing, which is a quality of fo much chemifts ufe when they have a mind to 

importance, that every method is to give any thing a gentle heat, with- 

be taken in hope of finding the caufe out burning it to the veffels, and 

of it. Indeed there are methods of which they call a balneum maria or 

making any butter keep longer than water heat. 

may at firft be imagined practicable ; It is done in the fcalding the De- 

if good butter be made up in lumps vonfhire cream thus, 

of forty pounds weight, and a little They flrain the milk into veffels as 



more fait be put in than is ufually al- 
lowed, and they be afterwards put 
into a large bin of flour, they will 
keep the year round without damage. 



is ufual, and fet it by for the cream to 
rife. Ten hours afterwards, when 
the cream is rtfen in the common 
way, they fet the veflel with the 



Toward the end of autumn butter cream, milk and all, over fome water 
is apt to tafle bitter. This is one of in another veflel, fo that the wate.1 
thofe things better known than its reaches half way up that wherein the 
caufe ; it has been faid that the reafon cream is : this done they fet the vef- 
is, that grafs beginning to grow bare fel of water over a ftove, and gently 
at that time, the cows eat the leaves heat it till the cream is thoroughly 
that fall from the trees; but however and perfectly rifen, and the milk un- 
true it may be that cows will feed in derneath is quite thin and. blue. The 
this manner, it is not true that this is gradual and foft heatdoesthis, throw- 
rhe caufe of the butter's being bitter ; ing up the whole cream perfectly, and 
becaufe in the fen countries, where at the fame time doing it a great deal 



there are no trees, and where ditches 
ferve inftead of hedges for inclofing, 
the fame thing is apt to happen at the 
fame feafon, as in places where there 
is ever fo great plenty of wood. 

Though we cannot abfolutely aftign 
the caufe of this, we can tell the 
houfewife how to prevent the damage, 
which is enough for ufe if not forcu- 
riofity. There needs no more to this 
than to fkim the cream after a fhorter 



of fervice, for the article of keeping 
by the heat. 

When it is in this condition the 
cream is fkimmed off with a flam- 
ming difh full of holes, and the blue 
milk islet to run perfectly away from 
it. 

In this condition it is a kind of 
clouted cream, the fire fo gently con- 
veyed to it has done it great fervice ; 
and it may be kept with proper care 



time (landing. When milk ftands too feveral days, fothat enough of it may 
long the cream hardens on the top of eafily be got together for churning, 
it, and the butter made from fuch All that is needful for preferving it 
cream is bitter; this (hews that too during this time, is fhifting it once in 
long Handing alone may be a caufe of four and twenty hours into a frefh and 
bitternefs in the butter, and for that perfectly clean veflel. This is one of 
reafon, where there is danger of the thefe inftances wherein we fee theva- 
lame accident from any other caufe, lue and advantage of cleanlinefa, biit 
one would take care to prevent this it is not particular, its good effects are 
from joining to maks it worfe: o.i univerfal. As to the churning of this 
this principle has been founded the cream no difference is to be ufed from 
practice of fkinvning milk earlier at the common meehod. 
that feafon of the year ; and the con- The cream is now ready for the 
fequence has (hewn that this alone churn, whether frefh or kept according 
will prevent the bitternefs of the but- to the rules we have given for that 
ter, whatever elfe was the caufe that purpofe, and we fuppofe the time ar- 
would have made it fo. rived when convenience Galls for the 
In Devonfhire, and fome other making of the butter. We fhall con- 
places, they make a particular kind fider firft the common way of making 
of butter; which from the manner of it with the old faihioned and long ufed 
ordering the cream, is called fcalded churn. This is a veflel of wood, tall 
butter. The advantage of this is not and deep, wideft at the bottom and 

X nar. 



B U T 



BUT 



narrower to the top, where it hns a 
cover that falls in clofe, and has a 
hole in its middle. Through this hole 
is let the handle of the inftrument, 
wherewith the cream is to be beat ; 
this confifts only of that handle, and 
a round board, like a broad thick tren- 
cher at the bottom, in fize fuited to 
the middle of the churn. When this 
is put in, the handle is let through 
the hole of the cover, and that is then 
put on and (aliened down. This is 
the whole contrivance of this familiar 
and ufeful inflrument; all that is re- 
quired for making ci butter is well 
beating of the cream. And it is very 
well done by this inftrument, for the 
cream being in the churn, the work- 
ing of the handle up and down in the 
bolt of the lid naturally agi'.ait^ and 
beats the cream, and the fattening of 
the cover prevents its fifing out. 

This churn, which is tire good 
houfewife's old implement, is to be 
made clean with all poffible eare, by 
thoroughly wafhing and fcalding, and 
then expofing it to the air to fweeten 
and purify. When every part belong- 
ing to it is thus perfectly cleaned, it is 
to be brought into a proper part of 
the dairy, and this dif¥ers according to 
the feafon, for which reafon there can 
he no particular fixed place for its 
Handing. 

All niceties are to be obferved in 
churning, for it is well known to the 
houfewife, to be a very precarious ar- 
ticle ; and often when all the carepef- 
iible is ufed, the work goes on very 
vexatioulJy, and the butter will not, 
as they exprefs it, of a long time 
come. 

A moderate temperature of tn"e air 
is the moll favourable for the working 
of butter 5 wherefore, according to the 
feafon of the year, this muft be fa- 
voured by the place of the churn. In 
every dairy there are fome places 
warmer and fome cooler than others. 
Now in winter the churn muft be fet 
in the warmeft place 5 and in fummer 
On the contrary it muft ftand in the 
cooleft, for the fuccefs of the work. 

In the fame manner the time of 
churning muft be varied according to 
the weather. In the heat of fummer, 
the weather being naturally too hot for 
the making of butter, no hours are 
proper but either very early in the 
inorning, or very late in the evening, 



becaufe then only the air is in that 
temperate way, fo effential to this bu- 
finefs ; ©n the other hand, as the air is 
too chill and cold in winter, the fame 
caution mult be ufed in an oppofite 
manner of choice, that is, the middle- 
of the d-ay, and no other time is to be 
taken- j becaufe it is at the noon time 
alone, in tliefe feafons, the air is any 
thing like temperate. 

The hour and the place of the churn 
being fixed, the houfewife has r.othing. 
to do but to go to the work. She is 
firft to ftretch a coarfe, ftrong, and 
very clean cloth acrofs the top of her 
churn, and through this to pour the 
cream. Cleanlinefs we have ail along 
prefcribed as the firft virtue of the 
dairy, but here it is fo very effential, 
that the admixture of thelealt particle 
of dirt might prevent the whole bufi- 
nefs, and all the labour be done in- 
vain. When the cream is ftrainedand 
prefTed through this cloth, the churn 
is tobe covered in with the whole pre- 
paration, and the maid is to go to 
work. 

There is great uncertainty a& to the 
time of the butter coming, but this 
depends mote upon the manner of 
beating, than any of thofe fantaftical 
caufes to which it has been affigned. 
Thus a heavy, tedious, dull manner 
of beating gives the cream time to ga- 
ther again between ftroke and ftroke, 
when it was about to break; and on 
the contrary, the fwifteft work does 
the moft bufinefs. Therefore let the 
mii'trefs firft examine the manner of 
working of thofe who complain, fhe 
will commonly find lazinefs is the de- 
vil in the churn, that fets his fpell 
upon the butter. Let her overfee the 
work at firft, and fee it is done brifk- 
ly, with fwift, fharp ftrokes, and tell 
the people, for their own fakes, to 
continue it in the fame manner. 

She will know by the found of the 
ftrokes how the work goes on. At firft 
the noife is a deep and heavy found ; 
but after a time, thefooner thefharper 
the itrokes, it will begin to be higher 
and fharper. This is a proof the cream 
begins to feparate from the thinner 
part that yet remained with it, or as 
they commonly exprefs it, that the 
butter comes : the work is now to be 
continued with the fame fpirit and 
earneftnefs, and the effect will foon 
follow. The ftaff will be perceived to 
work 



BUT 



BUT 



work lighter ; and foon after this, upon 
opening the churn, and examining the 
top of the lid on the infide, there will 
be found drops fticking to it that look 
yellow. The butter is now coming, 
and there will foon be an end of the 
labour, for thefe drops are abfolute 
butter, and whet; the change is thus 
perfect in one part, it will not belong 
before it be fo throughout ; after a few 
itrokes more let the churn^ be again 
opened, and there will be lound but- 
ter on the ikies as well as lid, and 
every where, fo far as the fplalhing 
can reach. 

The butter is now made, and is 
only to be got together. Foi thio pur- 
pofe the lid and infule of the churn 
mcft he fcraped clean, and the butter, 
■which is got off ficm them, muff be 
put down among die reft into the body 
of the churn ; then all is to be -cove; ed 
up again, and the work continued, but 
not with hard downright blows, but 
with a kind of flight rounding Itrokes j 
for all that is to be done now is to get 
the butter together into a lump in the 
churn, that none of it may remain in 
feparate pieces. When this is done the 
butter is nnifhed, and is to be taken 
out of the churn. 

This is the general method ; and 
thefe which we have named are the 
cautions a4ways to be obferved : but 
having thus far explained thefe, we 
fhall now enter upon thofe particulars 
which promote or retard the formation 
of the butter in the churn, that the 
houfewife being aware of what will 
prevent her fuccefs, may guard againft 
it; and knowing what will forward it, 
may purfue it. 

The temper of the air we have 
named already, as a very great article, 
and are to repeat the fame here on ano- 
ther occafion ; for it not only may re- 
tard the coming of the butter, but may 
fpoii it when it is made. 

Over h»t weather not only makes 
churning difficult, but the butter, 
when it is made, is fo far influenced by 
the weather, unlefs properly guarded 
againft, that it is whitifti, brittle, and 
bitter ; we have fhewn how to avoid 
thefe accidents, by taking an early or 
late hour and a cool place. The early 
hour is better than the late, for the air 
is cooler in the morning before the fun 
rifes, than it can be in the evening, 
after it is fet, becaufe in one cafe it 



has been heated all the day, and in the 
other it has been all the night cooling ; 
as to the place, the hotter the feafon, 
the cooler that muftbe. 

In fummer, as the heat of the air is 
the occafion of the difficulty in bring- 
ing the butter, the houfewife muft take 
all poilible means to prevent adding to 
the natural heat of her cream, and to 
cool it gradually. 

We have advifed very brifk working 
of the ft aft" in general, but here muft 
be a kind of exception, for too much 
motion will occafion heat; and there- 
fore in extream fultry times it will he 
better to manage the blows according- 
ly, making every blow fmart and fure, 
but not repeating them fo quick upon 
one another. 

There is fome myftery and art in 
churning at any time, but it is at this 
that the main difficulty occurs ; and if 
it be not managed according to thefe 
directions, there will be a great deal of 
perplexity and plague. 

In the next place, let the houfewife 
take care that fhe does not add to the 
heat occalioned by the weather, by 
any heat in the churn itfelf ; and far- 
ther let her abate the lieat when it is 
naturally lb much that nothing can be 
done by cooling it. 

With refpeft to the firft article, as 
her churn is to be fcalded in order to 
make it perfectly clean and fweet for 
the ufe, let her take care that it be 
thoroughly cooled, before. fhe puts her 
cream into it. Scalding water gives a 
great deal of heat, and wood keeps it 
a long time : therefore let the fcalding 
of the churn be theHrft thing done in 
the preparation for the work, and let 
the, churn be thoroughly examined by 
the hand half an hour at leaft before it 
is «fed, that it may be cool. Wood 
will retain heat when the hand does 
not feel it, but half an hour's cool- 
ing, after no more is perceived, will 
fet it right. In very hot weather it 
will be well to wet the churn with 
pump water frefh pumped, alittle be- 
fore the putting in the cream. 

Under thefe camions, and ufing the 
proper hours, there is reafon to hope 
the butter may come without much 
difficulty; but if, after a moderate 
time, there be no appearance of it, as 
nothing can be reafonably fuppofed to 
be the caufe but heat, let a waffling 
tub be a third part filled with frefh 
U 2 P um P 



\ 

B. I* T 

pumped water, and brought to the 
place where the maid is churning j let 
the churn be placed into this, and if 
the water do not reach as high up the 
outfide of it as the cream rifes within, 
then let more be added till it does: let 
the work be now carefully continued, 
and commonly, as foon as the effect of 
the water is felt through the wood, 
the butter will begin to come. It is 
not only that the cream is thus 
brought to that condition cf warmth, 
in which the butter comes belt, but 
the fudden change is of great affiftance. 

Thefe then are the little particulars 
by which the houfewife will be able to 
affilt heifelf, in cafes when the too 
great heat of the weather prevents her 
fuccefs; on the contrary, when her 
difficulties are owing to too cold an 
air, fhe muff, in the fame manner, af- 
fift nature by giving a little warmth. 

We have advifed her, in the other 
cafe, to be very careful to fee the churn 
be cool from the feeding, but in this 
fhe will do well to examine the veffel 
how it cools by degrees, and to (train 
;n her cream while there is yet fome 
warmth remains in the churn, from 
the water that cleaned it. This will 
give a little help to the cream; and the 
maid muft be ordered to work it more 
hrilkly than ordinary j indeed the cold- 
tiefsof the weather ufually puts her in 
mind of this, and the lefs admonition 
is needful. 

If with this affiftance the butter do 
not come, let the churn be taken into 
„the kitchen, and placed not within the 
reach of the fire direclly, but in the 
air of it, this will by degrees bring the 
cream to the due temper. Then the 
work of churning is to be continued 
hrilkly, and it will not be long before 
there come good butter. 

There is generally more trouble in 
jetting butter in very cold weather, 
than at any other time, but by thefe 
little affiftances it will be greatly alle- 
viated ; and there is nothing in all this 
that will be at all prejudicial to the 
tafte or colour. 

The butter being now formed in the 
churn, and by the, lait ftiokcs worked 
together into one large lump, is to be 
taken out and finifhed by a gentler 
operation ; the flrokes of the churn 
would be now too harfh, it muft be 
moulded in the hands into a better 
confidence. 



b v T 

The lump of butter in the churn il 
to be taken up with both hands, and 
removed out of the liquor. In this 
there comes a confideration, which is 
only to be determined by the time the 
butter is intended to be kept : if that 
be fhort, that is, if it be made for im- 
mediate ufe it is to be thrown into wa- 
ter immediately, on taking it out of 
the churn, if otherwife not. 

Therefore which ever be the cafe, 
let a very clean pan of earthen ware 
glazed, be fet ready by the chum, and 
if the butter be defigned for ufe im- 
mediately, let this be half full of clean 
frefh water ; if not let it be empty. 

The lump of butter being lifted out 
of the churn mult be put into this 
pan, ?.nd there worked thoroughly to 
and fro in the water, or without, la- 
bouring it with both hands, and mov- 
ing it frequently about ; by this means 
the buttermilk that remained in it af- 
ter the churning will be thoroughly 
wafhed out, and the butter will be 
pure and of a firm and good confift- 
ence: the well working, turning, and 
toffing the lump at this time of the 
operation is a very material article, for 
to that alone the butter owes its pu- 
rity, its good confidence, and in a 
great meafure its colour, at many 
times of the year. 

The buttermilk being thus perfectly 
feparated, one of the two points in- 
tended by the working in the finifhing 
of it up, is obtained ; the other is the 
perfectly cleaning of it. 

The laft thing to be done is the fak- 
ing. We are not here fpeaking of the 
falting that is to prepare butter for 
long keeping, but juft of that which 
is done to give it a relifh. Butter is 
very infipid when it is made up en- 
tirely without fait, fo that the frefheit 
fhould always have fome. It is to be 
worked into it in this manner. The 
butter that has been cut and cleaned is 
to be fpread out thin with the hand, 
in the bottom of a broad (hallow difh j 
and then a very little fait is to be 
fprinkled carefully over it, the defign 
being to mix it as equally as poffible 
in the whole quantity ; it is then to be 
worked up well in the hands, and is 
done : it may be wrought up into 
rolls, lumps, or difhes, or formed in 
any fhape mod faleable at market, or 
mofl convenient in the family. Hav- 
ing thus gone through the whole work 



ei 



BUT 



BUT 



of making butter, and making It up 
frefh, we fhall proceed to the falting 
of it, that being a very elTential part 
in the farmer's traffic in fome places. 
But here, as we have named only the 
plain good old family way of churn- 
ing, it may not be amifs to obferve 
that there arc others which have their 
ufe. 

The fweep is a kind of churn which 
works in the manner of a pump, and 
js ufed with a great deal of eafe and 
advantage in many places : in other 
parts of England they prefer the bar- 
rel churn, and it alfo anfwers very, 
well ; thefe inflruments are to be had 
at the turner's, therefore we fhall fay 
no more of them here, as we fhall not 
take upon us to recommend them, 
though we allow they are good in their 
kinds ; 'the other always, fo far as we 
have feen, very well anfwering its 
purpofe. 

The greateft preference that is made 
for ufing thefe, is the quantity they 
can manage, and the expedition of 
the work ; but twenty gallons of 
cream may be wrought at once in a 
common churn, big enough to hold 
thirty. When the quantity is fo large 
a woman alone is not able to manage 
i^ but a man and maid do it perfectly 
well. 

In hot weather butter, though very 
well made, will fometimes continue 
too foft ; and this will be a great clif- 
advantage in refpedl of the carriage to 
market, and fometimes hurt the fale. 
In this cafe, as the caufe is known, the 
remedy is eafy. Too much heat being 
the occafion, a little additional cold 
will fet all to rights. This may be 
done with great eafe by the help of a 
well, which is a convenience few 
farms want. Let the butter, when it 
is thoroughly made, and properly fak- 
ed, be rolled into lumps, pounds, or 
half pounds, according to the demand 
there is expected for thofe feveral fizes, 
and put carefully into a bafket : let a 
long rope be fallened to the handle of 
this bafket, and let it be let down into 
the well till it come within two foot of 
the water. In this way let it hang all 
isight, taking care no accident happen 
to it by thieves or careleffnefs of fer- 
vants, and in the morning let it be 
drawn up and fent to market. The 
cold air that lies jufl above the water 
fti the well, wtll have the fame cffeft 



as the natural cold of winter, and it 
will be as hard as butter commonly is 
in November. 

With refpecl to the falting of frefh 
butter, the particular fancy, and tafie, 
and cuftom of the country, are to be 
fo far confidered, that it is very dirhV 
cult toeltablifh any general rule ; but 
in a moderate way we may fay, that a 
pint of fait will ferve for twenty 
pounds of butter ; fome go as far as a 
pint and half for that quantity, but 
'tis too much, for only the flavour of 
the fait is wanted, to take off the infi- 
pidity of the butter : therefore the 
leaf! that will do is belt 5 but thofe 
who go much under a pint to twenty 
pounds do not anfwer their purpofe, 
for the fait is not fo much as tafted 
when fo little. 

Whey BUTTER. Whey butter is a 
thing little known in London, but 'tis 
often made in the country, for the fer- 
vice of farmer's families. It is like 
other butter, but poorer and rankj 
and made from a cream got out of 
whey, as the other is from the cream 
of new milk. 

A kind of ordinary cheefe is made -? , 
from the buttermilk , when new milk is *■£€■ £f? 
churned for butter inrtead of cream j .//^^ 
and in the fame manner in this in- 
fiance, a poor kind of butter is made 
from the whey of curds made from new 
milk. 

The method of making it is thus. 
When curds have been made from new 
milk, the whey which is drained off is 
to be fet in large pans, or other broad 
and (hallow velfels, and placed in a 
quiet part of the dairy, juft as new 
milk would be for cream j there will 
rife a cieam upon this, though not 
like that from new milk, and it is to 
be fkimmed off and churned in the 
fame manner. 

Betide the inferior quality of the 
whey butter, its quantity in propor- 
tion to the cream, is but poor. The 
fame meafure of whey cream yielding 
but about half as much butter as the 
other: neither will the whey butter 
ever come to a good confidence, nor 
will it keep; fo that at the beft it is 
but a very poor matter : however, it 
may be worth the farmer's while, in 
mod cafes, to make it. 

BUTTERFLY-FLOWERS, in bo- 
tany, the fame as papilionaceous-flow- 
ers 5 they compofe the feventecnth clafs 

in 



CAB 



CAB 






in the Linnean fyftem of botany; fuch 
aje the bloffoms of the pea, bean, 
broom, lupine, and various others. 

BUTTER-MILK, the refiduum or 
liquor left after making butter. 

BUTT£R-BUR,or/«/li/e»/-w«rt,t!te 
name of a weed refembling colt's-foot 
in many refpecls ; bat the flowers are 
purple, and grow in a thirfe. The 
leaves come ont after the flowers de- 
cay; and are like thofe of colt's-foot 
in fhape ; but three or four times as 
big. It infefts meadows and pafture 
grounds, where it proves a very trou- 
blefome weed. See the artclle Colt's 
Foot. 

BUTTER-WORT, \P\ngu\cuW\. 
This plant is found growing upon bogs 
jn many parts of England, but is never 
cultivated in gardens, fo we (hall pafs 
it over with barely mentioning it. 

B U T T O N-T REE, [Conocarjws']. 
There are two forts of this tree pre- 
ferved in fome curious gardens, but are 
plants of no great beauty, they are na- 
tives of the Weft-Indies, and too ten- 
der to live in England, unlefs constantly 
kept in a ftove. 

B U T T O N-W E E D, [SfermaMct] . 
There are two fpecies of this plant both 



natives of Jamaica, they are propa- 
gated by feeds, but will not bear the 
open air of England. 

BUTTON-WOOD, \Cephalar.thui\. 
This plantfgrows naturally in North 
America, from whence the feeds are 
annually fent to Europe, and of late 
years great numbers of the plants have 
been raifed in the gardens of the cu- 
rious. 

BUTCHERS-BROOM, [*«/««]. 
Bay of Alexandria, Kneeholly ; this is 
a prickly ever-green fhrub. found in 
many parts of England, growing wild 
in the woods. The root has a foft 
fweetifh tafte, which is followed by a 
bitterifh one : it is one of the five ape- 
rient roots : and in this intention is 
fometirnes made an ingredient in apo- 
zems and diet drinks, for opening flight 
obftru&ions of the vifcera, purifying 
the blood and juices, and promoting 
the fluid fecretions. 

The green fhoots are cut, bound into 
bundles, and fold to the butchers, who 
ufe it as befoms to fweep their blocks, 
from whence it had the name of but- 
chers broom. 

BUCKRAMS. [Allium Sylveflre}, 
Wild garlic, or crow garlic. 



^<xxx>c<xxx><><xx>c<xx><x><xxxxxxxvoc<xx 



c. 



vA, 



CABBAGE. [_Bra£ka]. The ge- 
neral name of a very ufeful fpe- 
cies of vegetables; the kinds are, ift, 
The common white cabbage. 2d, The 
turnip rooted cabbage ••!, Thecauli- 
flower; 4, Taller, fhrubby, branching 
fea cabbage j 5, Cabbage with entire, 
oval, fpear fhaped, fmooth leaves, 
which are indented ; 6, Champaign 
coltwort with a thorough-wax leaf, 
and a purple flower ; 7. Eaflern perfo- 
rated colewort, with a white flower 
,md a quadrangular pod ; 8, The wild 
navew or cole feed. The varieties of 
the firft fort are, 1, The Savoy cab- 
bage, commpnly called Savoy; 2, The 
red cabbage ; 3, The fugar- leaf cab- 
bage ; 4, The early cabbage ; <;, Fo- 
reign mufk cabbage ; 6, Small Ruffia 
cabbage; 7, The laige-fidcd cabbage ; 
*, The green Savoy; 9, The borecole; 

io, Green borecole; 11, Siberian bore- 

• 



cola, called by fome Scotch-kale. The 
varieties of the third fort are, Purple 
broccoli ; 2, White broccoli. 

The fecond fort, grows naturally 
on the fea-fhore near Dover. It hath 
a perennial branching ftalk, in which 
it differs from all the other fpecies. 

In very fevere winters, when the 
other forts are deftroyed, this is a ne- 
ceffary plant, for the moft fevere frofts 
do not injure it. The flower-ftalks 
grow from the end of the branches, 
and fpread out horizontally; but thofe 
which arife from the centre of the 
plants grow erect, and feldom put out 
branches. 

The two forts of broccoli feem to be 
only varieties of the cauliflower. The 
cauliflower has been much more im- 
proved in England than in any other 
part of Europe. In France they rarely 
have cauliflowers till Michaelmas, and 
Hclla* ■ 



CAB 



CAB 



Holland is generally fupplied with them 
from England. In many parts of Ger- 
many there was none of them culti- 
vated till within a few years pa ft. and 
molt parts of Europe are fupplied with 
feed from hence. 

The eighth fort, which is generally 



the turneps are run to feed ; and if ft 
is afterward permitted to (land for feed 
one acre will produce as much as, at a. 
moderate computation, will fell for 
five pounds, clear of charges. 

Partridges, pheafants, "turkeys, and 
moft other fowl, are very fond of this 



»,4?<?//v known by the title of Rape or Cole plant ; fo that wherever it is cultivated, 

— " Seed , is much cultivated in tne me ot if there are any birds in the neighbour- 

THy7 and fome other parts of England, hood, they will constantly lie among 

for its feed, from which the Rape-oil thefe plants. 

is drawn ; and it hath alfo been culti- The feeds of this plant are fown in 

vated of late years, in other places, gardens for winter and fpring fallads, 

for feeding of cattle, to great advan- this being one of the fmall fallad herbs, 
tage. The common white, red, fiat, and 

The Cole Seed, when cultivated for long-fided cabbages are chiefly culti- 

feeding of cattle, fhould be fown about vated for autumn and winter ufe; the 

the middle of June. The ground for feeds of thefe forts muft be fown the^.^ x>~ 

this fhould be prepared for it in the beginning or middle of April; in beds $<?£*. 

fame manner as for turneps. The of good frefh earth; and when thz $/,-■■ ^ 

quantity of feeds for an acre of land is young plants have about eight leaves, ''//Jy 

from fix to eight pounds, and as the they fhould be pricked out into fhady '-*&'^: 

price of the feed is not great, fo it is borders, about three or four inches /cfficfi 

better to allow eight ponnds j for if fquare, that they may acquire ftrength, /* /// 

prevent their growing long La/ ' 1 



the plants are too clofe in any part, 
they may be ealily thinned when the 
ground is hoed, which muft be per- 
formed in the fame manner as is prac- 
tifed for turneps, with this difference 
only, of leaving thefe much nearer to- 
gether ; for as they have fibrous roots 
and flender ftalfcs, fo they do not re- 



and to 
fhanked. 

About the middle of June you muft 
tranfplant them out, where they are 
to remain for good (which in the 
kitchen-gardens near London *s com- 
monly between cauliflowers, arti- 
chokes, &c. at about two feet and a 
ijuire fo much room. Thefe plants half diftance in the rows ;) but if they 
fhould have a fecond hoeing, about are planted for a full crop in a clear 
five or fix weeks after the firft, which, fpot-of ground, the diftance from row 
if Weil performed in dry weather, will to row fhould be three feet and a half, 
entirely deftroy the weeds, fo they will and in the rows two feet and a half 
require no more culture. Where there afunder : if the feafon fhould prove 
is not an immediate want of food, dry when they are tranfplanted out, 
thefe plants had better be kept as a re- you muft water them every other even- 
ierve for hard weather, or fpring feed, ing until they have taken frefh root ; 
when there may be a fcarcity of other and afterwards, as the plants advance ~ 

reen food. If the heads are cut off, in height, you fhould draw the earth (l&fccfii 

- about their items with a hoe, which 
will keep the earth moift about their 
roots, and greatly ftrengthen the plants. 
Thefe cabbages will fome of them be 
fit for ufe foon after Michaelmas, and 
will continue until the end of Febru- 
ary, if they are not deftroyed by bad 
weather ; to prevent which, the gar- 
deners near London pull up their cab- 
bages in November, and trench their 
ground up in ridges, laying their cab- 



and the ftalks left in the ground, they 
will fhoot again early in the fpring, 
and produce a good fecond crop in 
April, which may be either fed off, or 
permitted to run to feeds, as is the 
practice where this is cultivated for 
the feeds : but if the firft is fed down, 
there fhould be care taken that the cat- 
tle do not deftroy their items, or pull 
them out of the ground. As this 
plant is fo hardy as not to be deftroyed 



fty' 



by froft, fo it is of great fervice in 
hard winters for feeding of ewes ; for 
when the ground is fo hard frozen as 
that turneps cannot be taken up, thefe 
plants inay be cut off for a conftant 



bages againft their ridges as clofe. as 
poflible on one fide, burying their ftems 
in the ground : in this manner they let 
them remain till after,Chriftmas, when 
they cut them for the market ; and a!- 



fupplyv This will afford late food after though the outer part of the cabbage 

be- 



fl'r'/r?<;~ / 7r./'/i 01 ?oc/rf * 



£,./&. ./?, /I 



Si Is/.-.' 



C A 



CAS 



l»e decayed (as is often the cafe in very 
wet or hard winters,) yet, if the cab- 
bages were large and hard when laid, 
the infide will remain found. 

The Ruffian cabbage was formerly 
in much greater efteem than at prefent, 
it being now only to be found in par- 
ticular gentlemen's gardens, who cul- 
tivate it for their own ufe. This muft 
be (own late in the fpring of the year, 
and managed as thofe before directed, 
with this difference only, that thefe 
muft be fooner planted out for good, 
and muft have an open clear fpot of 
ground, and require much Jefc diftance 
every way, for it is but a very fmall 
bard cabbage. This fort will not con- 
tinue long before they will break, and 
tun up to feed. 

The early and fugar-loaf cabbages 
are commonly fown for fummer ufe, 
and are what the gardeners about Lon- 
don commonly called Michaelmas cab- 
bages. The feafon for fowing of thefe 
is about the end of July, or beginning 
of Auguft. in an open fpot of ground ; 
and when the plants have got eight 
Jeaves, you mud prick them into beds 
at about three or four inches diftance 
every way, that the plants may grow 
ftrong and fhort fhanked, and toward 
the end of October you fhould plant 
them out for good : the diftance that 
thefe require is, three feet row from 
row, and two feet and a half afunder 
in the rows. The ground muft be 
kept clean from weeds, and the earth 
drawn up about your cabbage plants. 

In May, if your plants were of the 
early kind, they will turn in their 
leaves for cabbaging : at which time, 
the gardeners near London, in order 
to obtain them a little fooner, tie in 
their leaves clofe with a (lender ofier- 
twig to blanch their middle ; by which 
means, they have them at leaft a fort- 
night fooner than they could have if 
they were left untied. 

The early cabbage being die firft, 
we fhould chufe (if for a gentleman's 
ufe) to plant the fewer of them, and a 
greater quantity of the fugar-loaf kind, 
which comes after them ; for the early- 
kind will not fupply the kitchen long, 
generally cabbaging apace when they 
begin, and as foon grow hard and burft 
open ; but the fugar-loaf kind is longer 
before it comes, and is as flow in its 
cabbaging; and being of an hollow 
kind, will continue good for a long 
Sime. 



Although we advife the planting 
out of cabbages for good in October,, 
yet the fugar-loaf kind may be planted 
out in February, and will fucceed as 
well as if planted earlier; with this 
difference only, that they will be later 
before they cabbage. You fhould alfa 
refervefome plants of the early kind m 
fome well fheltered fpot of ground, to 
fupply your plantation, in cafe of a de- 
fect; for in mild winters many of the 
plants are apt to rift) to feed, especially 
when their feeds are fown too early, 
and in fevere winters they are often de- 
ftroyed. 

The Savoy cabbages are propagated 
for winter ufe, as being generally ef- 
teemcd the better when pinched by the 
froft: thefe muft be fown about the 
end of April, and treated after the 
manner as was directed for the com- 
mon white cabbage ; with this differ- 
ence, that thefe may be planted at a 
clofer diftance than thofe; two feet 
and a half fquare will be fumcient. 
Thefe are always much better when 
plai>ted in an open fituation, which is 
clear from trees and hedges ; for in. 
clofe places they are very fubject to be 
eaten alrnoft up by caterpillars and 
other vermin, efpecially if the autumn 
prove dry. 

The borecole may be alfo treated in 
the fame manner, but need not be 
planted above one foot afunder in the 
rows, and the rows two feet diftance; 
thefe are never eaten till the froft hatl> 
rendered them tender, for otherwife 
they are tough and bitter. 

The feeds of the broccoli (of which 
there are fcveral kinds, viz. the Roman 
or purple, the Neapolitan or white, and 
the black broccoli, with fome others, 
but the Roman is chiefly preferred to 
them all,) fhould be fown about the 
latter end of May, or beginning of 
June, and when the plants are grown 
to have eight leaves, tranfplant them 
into beds (as was directed for the com- 
mon cabbage;) and towards the latter 
end of July they will he fit to plant out 
for good, which fhould be into fome 
well-fheltered fpot of ground, but not 
under the drip of trees; the diftance 
thefe require is about a foot and a half 
in the rows, and two feet row from 
row. The foil in which they fhould be 
planted ought to be rather light than 
heavy, fuch as are the kitchen-gardens 
near London : if your plants fucceed 
well (as there will be little reafon to 
doubt, 



CAB 



CAB 



doubt, unlefs the winter prove ex- 
treme hard,) they will begin to (hew 
their finall heads, which are fome- 
what like a cauliflower, but of a pur- 
ple colour, about the end of December, 
and will continue eatable till the mid- 
dle of April. 

The brown or black broccoli is by 
many perfons greatly efteemed, though 
it doth not deferve a place in the kit- 
chen-garden where the Roman hroc- 
coli can be obtained, which is much 
Tweeter, and will continue lenger in 
feafon : indeed, the brown fort is much 
hardier, fo that it will thrive in the 
co'dctt fituations, where the Roman 
broccoli is fometimes deftroyed in very 
hard winters. The brown fort fhould 
be fown in the middle of May, and 
managed as hath been directed for the 
common cabbage, and fhould be plant- 
ed at the fame distance, which is about 
two feet and a half afunder. This 
will grow very tall, fo fhould have 
the earth drawn up to their ftems as 
they advance in height. This does 
not form heads fo perfect as the Roman 
broccoli ; the ftems and hearts of the 
plants are the parts which are eaten. 

The Roman broccoli (if well ma- 
naged) will have large heads, which 
appear in the center of the plants like 
clutters ol buds. 1 htfe heads fhould 
be cut before they run up to feed, with 
about four or five inches of the ilem ; 
the (kin of thefe ftems fhould be ftrip- 
ped off before they aie boiled. After 
the firft heads arecutofT, there will be 
a great number of fide fhoots produced 
from the Items, whicli will have fmall 
heads to them, but are full as well fla- 
voured as the large. 

The Naples broccoli hath white 
heads very like thofe of the cauliflower, 
and eats fo like it as not to be diftin- 
guifhed from it. 

Befides this firft crop of broccoli 
(which is ufually fown in the end of 
May,) it will be proper to fow another 
crop rhe beginning of July, which will 
come in to fupply the table the latter 
end of March and the beginning of 
April ; and being very young, will be 
extremely tender and fweet. 

In otder to fave goo I feeds of this 
kind of broccoli in England, you fhould 
referve a few of the largeft heads of 
the firfl crop, which fhould be ier re- 
main to run up to feed, and all the 
under (hoots fhoutd be conftantly 
ftripped off, leaving only the main 



ftem to flower and feed. If this be 
duly obferved, and no other fort of 
cabbage permitted to feed near them, 
the feeds will be as good as thofe pro- 
cur.-.! from abroad, and the fort may 
be preferved in perfection many years. 
The turnep-rooted cabbage was for- 



£ 



■a<i 



merly more cultivated in England than //* i*x /% , 
at pieftnt, for fince other forts have / 7 
been introduced which are much bet- 
ter flavoured, this fort has been neg- 
lected. There are fome perfons who 
elteem this kind for foups, but it is 
generally too itrong for molt Englifh 
palates, and is feldom g.>od but in 
hard winters, which will render it 
tender and iefs ftrong. 

At the end of June the plants fhould 
be t aniplanted out where they are to 
remain, allowing them two feet dif- 
tance every way, cbferving to water 
them until they have taken root ; and / -, 
as their (terns advance, the earth (noeld [(vftffi ( L 'l 
be drawn up to them with a hoe, which 
will preferve a moiiture about their 
roots, and prevent their (terns from 
drying and growing woody, fo that the 
plants will grow more freely ; but 
it fhould not be drawn very high, for 
as it is the globular part of the (talk 
which is eaten, fo that fhould not be 
covered. In winter they will be fit 
for ufe, when they fhould be cut off, 
and the ftalks pulled out of th^ ground — ~ 
and thrown away, being good for no- , 

thing after the ftems are cut off. CfC&pr A) O/t 

The curled colevvort or Siberian bo- 
recole is now more generally elteemed 
than the former, being extremely har- 
dy, fo is never injured by cold, nut is 
always fweeter in fevere winters than 
in mild feafons. This may be propa- 
gated by fowing o\ the- feeds tht be- 
ginning of July ; and when the | lants 
are ftrong enough for tranfplanting, 
they fhould be plamed in rows at out 
a foot and a half :<funder, and ten. in- 
ches diHance in the rows. Thefi will 
be fit for ufe after Chnftmas, and con- 
tinue good until April, fo that they 
are very ufeful in a family 

The mulk cabbage. This may be 
propagated in the fame manner as the 
common cabbage, and be allowed 
the fame diftance : it will be fit for 
ufe in October November, and De- 
cember j bu*\ if the winter proves hard, 
thefe will be deftroyed.much fooner 
than the com non fort 

The common colewort or Dorfetfhire 
kale, is now almoft loft neat Lop ion, 

Y where 



5//? 



CAB 



CAB 



where their markets are ufually fup- 
plied with cabbage plants inftead of 
them. Indeed, where farmers fow 
coleworts to feed their miich cattle in 
the fpring, where there is a fcarcity of 
herbage, the common colewort is to 
be preferred, as being fo very hardy 
that no froft will deftroy it. The belt 
method to cultivate this plant in the 
fields is, to fow the feeds about the be- 
ginning of July, chufing a moift fea- 
■foh, which will bring up the plants in 
about ten days or a fortnight : the 
quantity of feed for an acre of land is 
nine pounds ; wlien the plants have 
got five or fix leaves they fhould be 
hoed, as is praftifed for turneps, cut- 
ting down all the weeds from amongfl 
the plants, ar.d allb.thinning the plants 
where theyare too thick; buttheymould 
be kept thicker than turneps , becaufe 
they are more in danger ol being de- 

. Itroyed by the fly : this work fhould 
be p.rioiined in dry weather, that the 
>veeds m'aj'be killed. Aboutfix weeks 
after, the plants lhould have a fecond 
hoeing, which, if carefully performed 
in dry weather, will entirely deitroy the 
weeds, and make the ground clean, fc 
that they will require no faither cul- 
ture : in th e fpring they may either be 
drawn up and carried out to feed the 
cattle, on they may be turned in to feed 
upon them as they ftand ; but the for- 
mer method is to be preferred, becaufe 

* tHatg will be little wafte ; whereas, 
when the cattle are turned in amonglt 
the plants, they will tread down and 
deitroy more than they eat, efpecially 
if they are not fenced off by hurdles. 

The two laft forts of cabbage are 
varieties fit for a botanic garden, but 
are plants of no ufe. They are an- 
nual plants, and perifh when they have 
perfefled their feeds. 

The beft method to favr the feeds 
of all the beft forts of cabbage is, a- 
bout the end of November you fhould 
make choice of fome of your beft cab- 
bages, which you fliould pull up, and 
carry to fome fhed or other covered 
place, where you lhould hang t hem up 
for three or four days by their ftalks, 
that the water may drain from between 
their leaves ; then plant them in fome 
border near a hedge or pale, quite down 
to the middle of the cabbage, leaving 
only the upper part of the c'abbage a- 
bove ground, obferving to raife the 
earth about it, fo that it may ftand a 



little above the level of the ground ; 
efpecially if the ground is wet, they 
will require to be raifed pretty much 
above the furface. 

If the winter fhould prove very hard, 
you muft lay a little ftraw or peafe- 
haulm lightly upon them, to fecure 
them from the froft, taking it off as of- 
ten as the weather proves mild, left by 
keeping them too clofe they fhould rot. 
In the fpring of the year thefe cabbages 
will fhoot out ftrongly, and divide in- 
to a great number of fmali branches : 
you muft therefore lupport their ftems, 
to pi event their being broken off by 
the wind; and if the weather fhould 
be veiy hot and dry when they are in 
flower, you lhould reirefh them with 
water once a week all over the bran- 
ches, which will greatly promote their 
feeding, and preferve them from 
mildew. 

When the pods begin to change 
brown, you will do well to cut off the 
extreme part of every fhoot with the 
pods,\vhich will ftrengthen your feeds; 
for it is generally obferved, that thofe 
feeds which grow near the top of the 
flioots, are very fubjecf to run to feed 
before they cabbage; fo that by this 
there will be no lofs, but a great ad- 
vantage. 

When your feeds begin to ripen, 
you muft be particularly careful that 
the birds do not deitroy it, for they are 
very fond of thefe feeds. The belt 
method I know to prevent this, is to 
get a qu-antity of birdlime and daub 
over a parcel of (lender twigs, which 
fhould be faftened at each end to 
ftronger flicks, and placed near the up- 
per part of the feed in different places, 
fo that the birds may alight upon them, 
by which means they will be faftened 
thereto ; where you muft let them re- 
main, if they cannot get off themfelves : 
and although there fhould not above 
two or three birds be caught, yet ?t 
will fufficiently terrify the reft, that 
they will not come to that place again 
for a confiderable time after. 

When your feeds are fully ripe, you 
muft cut it off; and after drying, 
threfh it out, and preferve it in a bag 
for ufe. 

But in planting of cabbage for feed, 
never plant more than one fort in a 
place, or near one another : as for ex- 
ample, jiever plant red or white cab- 
bage near each other, nor favoy with 
white 



CAB 



CAB 



white or red cabbages ; for they will, 
by the commixture of their effluvia, 
produce a kind of mixture ; and it is 
wholly owing to this neglect, that the 
gardeners rarely fave any good red 
cabbage feed in England, but are ob- 
liged to procure frefh feeds from a- 
broad, as fuppofing the foil or climate 
of England alters them from red to 
white, and of a mixed kind between 
both ; whereas, if they mould plant 
red cabbages by themfelves for feeds, 
and not fuffer any other to be near 
them, they might continue the kind as 
good in England as in any other part 
of the world. 

Cauliflowers have of late years been 
fo far improved in England, as to ex- 
ceed in goodnefs and magnitude what 
are produced in moft parts of Europe, 
and by the fkill of the gardener are 
continued for feveral months'^ogether ; 
but the moft common feafon for the 
great crop is in May, June, and July. 
We fhall therefore begin with direc- 
tions for obtaining them in this feafon. 

Having procured a parcel of good 
feed, you muff, fow it about the 21ft 
of Auguft, upon an old cucumber or 
melon-bed, fifting a little earth over 
the feeds, about a quarter of an inch 
thick ; and if the weather fhould prove 
extreme hot and dry, you fhould (hade 
the bed with mats, to prevent the 
earth from drying too fa ft, and give it 
gentle waterings as you may fee occa- 
fion. In about a month's time after 
fowing. your plants will befit to prick 
out ; you mould therefore put fome 
frefh earth upon your cucumber or 
melcn-beds, or where thefe are not to 
be had, fome beds fhould be made 
with a little new dung, which fhould 
be trodden down clofe, to prevent the 
worms from getting through it ; but 
it fhould not be hot dung, which 
would be hurtful to the plants at this 
feafon efpecially if it proves hot ; into 
this bed you fhould prick your young 
plants at about two inches fquare, ob- 
serving to fhade and water them at 
firft planting ; but do not water them 
too much after they are growing, nor 
fuffer them to receive too much rain if 
the feafon fhould prove wet, which 
would be apt to make them black 
fhanked (as the gardeners term it, 
which is no lefs than a rottennefs in 
their ftems,) and is the deliructicn of 
the plants fo affected. 



In this bed theyfhould con time 
about the 30th of October, when they 
muft be removed into the place where 
they are to remain during the winter 
feafon, which, for the firft fowing, is 
commonly under the bell or hand- 
glaffes, to have early cauliflowers, and 
thefe fhould be of an early kind : but 
in order to have a fucceflion during 
the feafon, you fhould be provided 
with another more late kind, which 
fhould be fovvn four or five days after 
the other, and managed as was directed 
for them. 

In order to have very early cauli- 
flowers, you fhould make choice of a 
good rich fpot of ground that is well 
defended from the north, eaft, and 
weft winds, with hedges, pales, or 
walls ; but the firft is to be preferred, 
if made with reeds, becaufe the winds 
will fall dead in thefe, and not reverbe- 
rate as by pales or walls. This ground 
fhould be well trenched, burying there- 
in a good quantity of rotten dung; 
then level your ground, and if it be 
naturally a wet foil, you fhould raife 
it up in beds about two feet and a 
half, one three feet broad, and four 
inches above the level of the ground ; 
but if your ground is moderately dry, 
you need not raife it at all : then plant 
your plants, allowing about two feet 
fix inches diflance from glafs to glafs 
in the rows, always putting two good 
plants under each glafs, which may be 
at about four inches from each other ; 
and if you defign them for a full crop, 
they may be three feet and a half row 
from row : but if you intend to make 
ridges for cucumbers between the rows 
of cauliflower plants, (as is generally 
pradtifed by the gardeners near Lon- 
don) you muft then make your rows 
eight feet afunder; and the ground 
between the rows of cauliflowers may 
be planted with cabbage plants, to be 
drawn off for coleworts in the fpring. 
When you have planted your plants, 
if the ground is very dry you fhould 
water them a little, and then fet your 
g.'affes over them, which may remain 
clofe down over them until they have 
taken root, which will be in about a 
week or ten days time, unlefs there 
fhould be a kindly fhower of rain ; in 
which cafe you may fet off the glafles, 
that the plants may receive the benefit 
of it; and in about ten days after 
planting, you fhould be provided with 
V 2 a par- 



CAB 



CAB 



a parcel of forked fticks or bricks, 
with which you fhould raife your glaf- 
fes about three or four inches on the 
fids toward the fouth, that your plants 
may have free air: in this manner 
your glaffes fhould remain over the 
plants night and day, unlefs in frofty 
weather, when you fhould fet them 
down as clofe as poffible; or if the 
weather fhould prove very warm, 
which many times happen in Novem- 
ber, and fometimes in December, in 
this cafe you fhould keep your glaffes 
off in the day time, and put them on 
only in the night, lelt, by keeping the 
glaffes over them too much, sou fhould 
draw them into flower at that feafon ; 
whuh is many times the cafe in mild 
winters, efpecially if unlkilfully ma- 
naged. 

Toward the latter end of February, 
if the weather proves mild, you fhould 
prepare another good fpot of ground 
to remove fome of the plants into 
from under ihe glafies, which fhould 
be well dunged and trewched (as be- 
fore;) then fet off your glaffes, and, 
after making choice of one of the molt 
promising plants under each glafs, 
which fhould /emain for good, take a- 
way the other plant, by railing it up 
with a trowel, &c. fo as to prefeive as 
much earth to the root as poffible; but 
have a great regard to the plant that is 
to remain, not to difturb or prejudice 
its roots : then plant the plants which 
you have taken out at the ditiance be- 
fore directed, viz. If lor a full crop, 
three feet and a half, row fiom row ; 
but if for ridges of cucumbers be- 
tween them eight feet, and two feet 
fourinc^e diftance in the rows : then, 
with a iinall hoe draw the ea; tit up to 
the fbms of r he plants which were 
left under the glaffes. taking great care 
not to let rhe earth fall into their 
hearts ; and fet your gaffes over them 
again, raifing your props an inch or 
two higher than before, to giv< tl .-11 
more air, obferving tv, .a^e them eff 
whenever there may be (orac gentle 
dowers, which ..ill greatly reireih the 
plants. 

Jn a litt'e time after, if you find 
your plants grow fo fa ft as tc fill tl.e 
glaffes with their leaves, you fhould 
then flightly dig - out the plants, and 
raife the gro in 1 about them in a bed 
broad enough tor die ghffes to ftand, 
i bout four inches high, which will 



give your plants a great deal of room, 
by railing the glalfe* fo much higher 
when they are fet over them ; and by 
this means they may be kept covered 
until April, which otherwife they 
could not, without prejudice to the 
leaves of the plants : and this is a 
great advantage to them, for many 
times we have returns of fevere f rolls 
at the latter end of March, which 
prove very hurtful to thefe plants, if 
expofed thereto, efpecially after having 
been nurfed up under glaffes, 

After you have finifhed your beds, 
you may fet your glaffts over your 
plants again, obferving to raife your 
props pretty high, efpecially if the 
weather be mild,jthat they might have 
free air to flrengthen them; and in 
mild foft weather kt off your glaffes, 
asalfi> in gentle fhowersof rain: and 
now you mull begin to harden them 
by degrees to endure the open air; 
however, it is advifeable to let your 
glaffes remain over them as long as 
poffible, if the nights fhould be frofty, 
which will greatly forward your plants; 
but be fure do not let your glaffes re- 
main upon them in very hot fhun-fhine, 
efpecially if their leaves pief* againft 
the fides of the glaffes ; for it is of- 
ten obferved in fuch cafes, that the 
moifture which hath tifen from the 
ground, together with the perfpiration 
of the plants, which, by the glaffes re- 
maining over them, hath been detain- 
ed upon the leaves of the plants, and 
when the fun hath fhone hot upon the 
lides of the glaffes, hath acquired fuch 
a powerful heat from the beams there- 
of, as to fcald all their larger leaves, 
to the no fmall prejudice of the plants : 
nay, fometimes large quantities of 
plants have heen fo affected there- 
with, as never to be worth any thing 
after. 

If your plant have fucceeded well, 
toward the end of April fome of them 
will begin to fruit : you mull there- 
fore look over them carefully every 
other day, and when you fee the flower 
plainly appear, ,you muft break down 
fome of the inner leaves over it to guard 
it from the fun, which would make the 
flower yellow and uniightly if expo- 
fed thereto ; and when you find the 
flower at its full bignefs (which you 
may know by its outfide parting as if 
it would run) you muft then draw it 
out of the ground, and not cut them 

off 



C A E 



CAB 



off, leaving the dalk in the ground, as 
is by fome pr?ftifed j and if they are 
defigned for prefent ufe, you may cut 
them out of their leaves j but if de- 
signed to keep, you mould preferve 
their leaves about them, and put them 
into a cool place : the beft time for 
pulling of them is in a morning, be- 
fore the fun hath exhaled the moi- 
lture 5 for cauliflowers pulled in the 
heat of the day, lofe that firmnefs 
which they naturally have, and be- 
coms tough. 

But to return to our fccond crop 
(the plants being raifed and managed 
as was direcled for the early crop, un- 
til the end of October,) you mud then 
prepare fome beds, either to be cover- 
ed with glafs frames, or arched over 
with hoops, to be covered with mats, 
&c. Thefe beds fhonld have fome 
dung laid at the bottom, about fix 
inches or a foot thick, according to 
the fize of your plants ; for if they 
are fmall, the bed fhould be thicker 
of dung to bring them forward, and 
fo vice verfa : this dung fhould be 
beat down clofe with a fork, in order 
to prevent the worms from finding 
their way through it ; then lay fome 
frefh earth tibout four or five inches 
thick thereon, in which you mould 
plant your plants about two inches and 
a half fquare, obferving to (hade and 
water them until they have taken new 
root ; but be fure do not keep your 
coverings clofe, for the warmth of the 
dung will occafion a large damp in 
the bed, which, if pent in, will greatly 
injure the plants. 

When your plants have taken root, 
you mufl give then, as much free open 
air as poffible, by keeping the glades 
off in the day time as much as the 
weather will permit ; and in the night, 
or at fuch times as the glaffes require 
to be kept on, raife them up with props 
to let in frefh air, unief- in frorly wea- 
ther j at which time the glades fhould 
be covered with mats, ftraw, peafe- 
haulm, Sec. but this is not to be done 
but in very hard frofts : you mud alfo 
obferve to guard them againft great 
rain, which in winter time is very 
hurtful to them, but in mild weather, 
if the glaffes are kept on, they ffhould 
be propped to admit frefh air j and if 
the under leaves grow yellow and de- 
cay, be fure to pick them offj for if 
the weather mould prove very bad in 



winter, fo that you fhould be obliged 
to keep them clofe covered for tvvo or 
three days together, as it femetimes 
happens, thefe decayed leaves will 
render the inclofed air very noxious ; 
and the plants pe-fpiring pretty much 
at that time, are often d^lroyed in 
vaft quantities. 

In the beginning of February, if 
the weather be mild, you muft begin 
to harden your plants by degrees, that 
they may be prepared for tranfplanta- 
tion : the ground where you intend to 
plant your cauliflowers out for good 
(which fhould be quite open from 
trees, &c. and rather moid than dry,) 
having been well dunged and dug, 
fhould be fown with radifhes a week 
or fortnight before you intend to plant 
out your cauliflowers : the reafon why 
I mention the fowing of radifhes par- 
ticularly, is this, viz. that if there are 
not fome radifhes amongfl them, and 
the month of May fhould prove hot 
and dry, as it fometimes happens, the 
fly will feize your cauliflowers, and 
eat their leaves full of holes, to their 
prejudice, and fometimes their dedruc- 
tion ; whereas, if there are radifhes 
upon the fpot, the flies will take to 
them, and never meddle with the cau- 
liflowers fo long as they lad : indeed, 
the gardeners near London mix fpi- 
nach with their radifh feed, and fo 
have a double crop ; which is an ad- 
vantage where ground is dear, or 
where a perfon is : draitened for room : 
otherwife it is very well only to have 
one crop amongfl the cauliflowers, 
that the ground may be cleared in 
time. 

Your ground being ready and the 
feafon good, about the middle of Fe- 
bruary you may begin to plant out 
your cauliflowers : the d'iftance which 
is generally allowed by the gardeners 
near London (who plant other crops 
between their cauliflowers to fucceed 
them, as cucumbers for pickling, and 
winter cabbages) is every other row 
four feet and a half apart, and the in- 
termediate rows two feet and a half, 
and two feet two inches didancein the 
rows ; fo that in the latter end of May 
or beginning of June (when the ra- 
difhes and fpinach are cleared off,) 
they put in feeds of cucumbers for 
pickling, in the middle of the wide 
rows, at three feet and a half apart ; 
and in the narrow rows plant cabba- 
ges 



CAB 



CAB 



ges for winter ufe, at two feet two in- 
ches diftance, lb that thefe ftand each 
of them exactly in the middle of the 
fqu are between four cauliflower plants; 
and thefe, after the cauliflowers are 
gone off", will have full room to grow, 
and the crop be hereby continued in a 
fucceffion through the whole feafon. 

There are many people who are fond 
of watering cauliflower plants infum- 
mer, but the gardeners near London 
have almoff, wholly laid afide this prac- 
tice, as finding a deal of trouble and 
charge to little purpofe ; for if the 
ground be fo very dry as not to pro- 
duce tolerable good cauliflowers with- 
out water, it feldom happens that wa- 
tering of them renders them much 
better ; and when once they have been 
watered, if it is not conftantly conti- 
nued, it had been much better for 
them if they never had any ; as alfo, 
if it be given them in the middle of 
the day, it rather helps to fcald them : 
fo that, upon the whole, if care be 
taken to keep the earth drawn up to 
their flems, and clear them from e- 
very thing thai grows near them, that 
they may have open air, you will find 
that they will fucceed better without 
than with water, where any of thefe 
cautions are not ftriclly obferved. 

But in order to have a third crop of 
cauliflowers, you fhould make a (len- 
der hot-bed in February, in which you 
mould fow the feeds, covering them a 
quarter of an inch thick with light 
mould, and covering the bed with 
glafs frames. When the plants are 
come up, and have gotten four or five 
leaves, you fhould prepare another hot- 
bed to prick them into, which may be 
about two inches fquare; and in the 
beginning of April harden them by 
degrees, to fit them for tranfplanting, 
which fhould be done the middle of 
that month, at the diffance directed 
for the fecond crop, and mufl be ma- 
naged accordingly : thefe (if the foil 
is moift where they are planted, or the 
feafon cool and moid.) will produce 
good cauliflowers about a month af- 
ter the fecond crop is gone, whereby 
their feafon will be greatly prolonged. 

There is alfo a fourth crop of cauli- 
flowers, which is raifod by fiswiug the 
feed about the twenty-third of May ; 
and being tranfplanted, as hath been 
before direfted, will produce geed cau- 
liflowers in a kindly feafon and good 



foil after Michaelmas, and continue 
through October and November, and, 
if the feafon permit, often a great part 
of December. 

The reafon why we fix particular 
days for the fowing of this feed, is be- 
caufe two or three days often make a 
great difference in their plants ; and 
becaufe thefe are the days ufually fixed 
by the gardeners near London, who 
have found their crops to fucceed belt 
when fown at thofe times, although 
one day, more or lefs, will make no 
great odds. 

Sea CABBAGE, [Cambe]. A ge- 
nius of plants growing wild on the 
fea-ftiore in divers parts of England, 
but particularly in Suflex and Dorfet- 
fliire in great plenty, where the inha- 
bitants gather it in the fpring to eat, 
preferring it to any of the cabbage 
kind, as it generally grows upon the 
gravelly fhore, where the tide flows 
over it, fo the inhabitants obferve 
where the gravel is thruft up by the 
roots of this plant; they 'open the 
gravel, and cut the fhoots before they 
come out, and are expofed to the open 
air, whereby the fhoots appear as if 
they were blanched ; and when they 
are cut fo young, they are very tender 
and fweet, but if they are fuffered to 
grow till they are green, they become 
tough and bitter. 

This plant may be propagated in a 
garden, by fowing the feed fcon after 
it is ripe in a fandy or gravelly foil, 
where it will thrive exceedingly, and 
increafe greatly by its creeping roots, 
which will foon overfpread a large 
fpot of ground, if encouraged, but 
the heads will not be fit to cut until 
the plants have had one year's growth ; 
and in order to have it good, the bed 
in which the plants grow fhould at 
Michaelmas be covered over with 
fand cr gravel about four or five inches 
thick, which will allow a proper depth' 
for the fhoots to be cut before they ap- 
pear above ground; and if this is re- 
peated every autumn, in the fame 
manner as is pra&ifed in earthing of 
afparagus-beds, the plants will re- 
quire no other culture. 

The other forts are only preferved 
in curious gardens of plants for vari- 
ety, but are not of a/iy ufe or beauty. 
The perennial fort may be propagated 
in the fame manner as the firft. 

CAB- 



C A L 



C A L 



C ABB AGE-TREE, [Paltna gracilis]. 
A fpecies of the palm tree, which 
grew very common in the Weft- In- 
dies. 

CAJOU, fee Acajou. 

CALABASH-TREE, [Crefcentia]. 
A tree common in Jamaica and the 
Leeward Iflands, growing from 20 to 
30 feet in heigth, dividing at the top 
into many branches, forming a large 
regular head, garnifhed witli irregular 
leaves, about fix inches long, of a 
lucid green, and fhort footftalks ; they 
produce flowers, which afterwards 
turn to fruit of different forms and 
fize, of the fhells of which they make 
drinking cups and other velfels. They 
are too tender to live in England, ex- 
cept in warm ftoves ; they are eafily 
propagated by fowing the feeds, on a 
hot bed in the fpring. 

Calambac Wood. A kind of aloe. 

CALAMIFEROUS, [Calamus fen.] 
an epithet applied to fuch plants as 
have a fmooth upright jointed fta!k, as 
wheat, Scz. 

CALAMINE, [tapis Cataminarjs] is 
a mineral found plentifully in England, 
Germany, and other countries, either 
in diltinft mines, or intermingled with 
the ores of different metals. It is ufu- 
ally of a greyifh, biownilh, yeliowifh, 
or pale reddifh color; ccnfiderably 
hard, though not fufficiently fo to ftrika 
fire with (Uel. It hiibeen looked up- 
on by fome as a (imple earth, 8y others 
as an iron oie: but later experiments 
have difcovered it to be actually 
an ore of zinc. Calamine is generally 
roafted or c >lcned before it comes into 
the fhops, in order to feparat'e fome 
fulphurous or arfenical matter, and to 
render it more reducible into a fine 
powder. In this ftate it is employed 
in collyria againit defluxions of thin a- 
crid humors upon the eyes; for drying 
up moift, running ulcers ; and healing 
excoriations. 

CALAMINT, [CalamirAha.] This 
is a low plant growing wild in hedges 
and highways, and in dry fandy foils, 
the leaves have a quick ftrong fcent, 
and fmell ftrong of penny-royal: in 
virtues it is ranked with fpear-mint ; 
but is fiippofed to have rather fuperior 
virtues in ny fieri c diforders, being 
fomething hotter, and of a lefs plea- 
fant fmell ; there are two forts found 
in England, the wiid Calamint,and the 
common Calamint j the former is pre- 



ferred in medicine in genera! before the 
other. 

CALCARIOUS, partaking of the 
nature of lime. 

CALCINATION, Aft of burning. 

CALLFACTION, the act of mak- 
ing hot. 

CALF, [Vitulus]. The young of, 
the cow. In different counties vari-' 
ous methods are ufed in raifing of 
calves, according to the nature of the 
demand for them ; many means being 
employed to fuit their flefh to the 
tafle and eye in the markets, of which 
we (hall treat hereafter. There are 
two ways of breeding thofe which the 
hufbandman interi'ds to rear. The 
one is to let run k> the dam ^11 the 
year ; and thTother i's, that of taking 
them from the cow when they have 
fucked a fortnight. 

In the cheap breeding counties, the 
firfi way is the molt ufual ; and it is 
commonly allowed that it produce^ the 
fairefi, ftouteit, and the beittattle, and 
is done with Jeafl trouble to the own- 
er. Thefearg inducements of fome con- 
fequence, but there aieinmany inltan-i 
ces others in the oppoiite fide that out- 
weigh them. 

When the calf is taken from its dam 
at a fortnight old, a great care is requi- 
red in railing it : but in thofe places 
where it is the common method, all 
this becomes familiar and eafy by ufe. 
They firft of ali warm a quantity of 
flet mik, and wetting a finger give it to 
the calf to fuck, by this "means teaching 
them at length to dripk it. There is a 
"great caption neceflar'y to be ufed in 
the degree of heat they give the milk. 
It fliould be as near as poffible the fame 
heat as milkjuli drawn from the cow, 
if much hotter or colder, it will do 
harm. 

The calf, if rightly managed, in a 
little time gets fome 1 1 length and har- 
dinefs, but when fir ft weaned, is very 
weak and tender. 

When thus weaned it is to have 
milk given to it for a quarter of a year 
adding fometimes a little water thick- 
ened with a fmall quantity of bean 
flour or oatmeal ; and at the end of 
that timeleffen the milk,till by degrees 
it be only water, ferving for drink, not 
merely for nourifhment. 

Before it be brought to this, the calf 
mull be taught to eat dry food, which, 
is to be done by putting' fome fine hay 

into 



C A L 



C A L 









into a fplit ftick, and hanging it with- 
in his reach. This hay fhouid be firft 
put before him when he is about five 
weeks old, and he will fcon take to 
it, fo that by the time it is proper to 
wean him from milk, he will natural- 
ly feed on hay. 

When the calves have got fome 
ftrength and hardinefs, the hufband- 
man is to taker is opportunity in fair 
weather, in the middk' of the day, to 
turn them out to grafs ; they are to be 
taken in at night for about a week, 
and fome milk and water given them 
warm ; and it is a good cuftom to fet 
a little to them fometimes in a pail in 
the field : this may be done occafion- 
ally, till they are able to teed and take 
care of therrifelves. 

Great cauticn is to be ufed in the 
fivfl turning calves cut to grafs, not 
only that it be a favourable feafon, but 
a proper kind of pafttire. It mould 
have a fhort fweet grafs, with a good 
body, but no ranknefs. 

The bell way is to wean the calves 
at grafs, for when they are weaned in 
thehoufe by means of hay am 1 w.iter, 
thtiy generally become fubjscb to disor- 
ders. The other is the moft natural 
method, and every way the I eft. 

At about three years old, fuch of the 
male c lives as are intended for oxen , 
be gelt. This is the time at 
which they f offer leaft from it. 

In places where there is a quick de- 
mand, the belt method is to fat all the 
calves' for the butcher, except fuch as 
ihall be neceffary to keep up the ftock. 
This demand is commonly largeft near 
great towns, where the price of the 
calf is high, and where the grounds are 
not profitable to breed upon, fothat it 
is a particular circumftance; cheaper 
countries being fitter fo r breeding. 
As the price ot the call m thee 
' places d 'ends upon the fatnefs and 
colour of the nYfh, the great care of 
the owneris to be turned to thefe two 
articlt c , in which, if he fucceed per- 
fectly, his calf will fetch as large a 
price as a good heifer. In order to 
make the caff fatten, and have a white 
fielh, the common method i< this : 
They keep them extremely clean, giv- 
ing them frelh litt> r every day. lpread- 
irs; the lew [ on Che oid ; and always 
keeping a couvle ot large lamps of 
— chalk hung up in corners cr the coop, 
in their reach j and where they cannot 



foul it by treading upon It, or by tlieir 
dung or urine. 

The calf will be continually licking 
thefe chalk ftones, and their whitenefs 
communicates itfelf tothe flefh through- 
out his whole body. 

Another care is, the proper building 
of the coops in which calves are to be 
fattened. The two great confidera- 
tions in thefe ate, the keeping them 
cool and dry. For the firft purpofe 
they build them in places where there 
is little fun 5 and for the other, they 
raife them three feet from the ground, 
fo that the urine and all other moifture 
naturally runs out. 

When the calf is in this keeping, 
well fed, and carefully looked after in 
every refpect, it is twice at ieaft blood- 
ed : once of thefe times it is about five 
weeks old, and the other time a little 
before it is killed. 

When a calf purges, the cuftom is 
not to let it fuck altogether, for the 
milk of the dam often throws it into 
this diforder, which certainly waftes its 
fiefh. In this cafe they give it milk 
with chalk fcraped into it, which has 
a double effecT, flopping the purging, 
and throwing more of the whitening 
matter into the flefh. They fcrape 
the chalk very fine for this purpofe, 
and after mixing it well with the milk, 
they pour it down the calf's throat 
with a horn. 

Often it happens chat this will not 
remedy the diforder, and the calf is 
like to be fpoiled. In this cafe they 
ufe the cold bath for it ; and give it 
fome bole armenick, and chalk mixed 
up with milk into balls. 

If this does not anfwer, give a fmall 
dofe of diafcordium made without ho- 
ney, mixed with port wine and water 
made warm, with a horn. The calf 
mull not have any milk for three quar- 
ters of an hour before, nor an hour 
after this drench, but it may lick chalk 
as much as it pleafes. If this does not 
anfwer in the firft dofe, aroth- r may 
be given twelve hours afterwards, and 
this rarely fails. The quantity to be 
given each time is a dram. This never 
hurts the colour or tafte of the fielh. 

This purging is the moft common 
diforder the calf falls into, but it may 
be difordered in the other extreme, and 
thai is full as bad. If it be coftive, the 
fielh of it will never be delicate. When 
any tendency to this is obferved, the 
prope 



C A L 



CAM 



proper method is to give a little man- 
na ; and the beft way of giving it is 
this : buy about an ounce of ordinary 
manna, which they fell at a fmall price 
at every tfruggifVs ; diffolve it in a 
quarter of a pint of water, and add a 
fpoonfull of brandy. Thicken up this 
liquor with fine wheat fiour, and 
make it into crams; give the calf three 
or four of thefe every morning after 
he has been fucking, and dip them in 
milk to make them go down. Repeat 
this till the calf is right in this great 
refpecl ; and then leave it off. 

The manner of bleeding calves is 
this. The firfi time it mould be done 
in the neck, and care muft be taken 
not to draw too much. The fecond 
time it is beft done by cutting off a 
• piece of the tail, and if this do not 
bleed fo much as might be expe&ed, it 
may be repeated at two or three day's 
diffance, by cutting off another piece, 
which will bleed ju(t as the former. 

One very ufeful effect the chalk given 
to calves has, befide the whitening, 
which is, preferving the flefh, for it 
keeps it dryer than it would otherwife 
be, and wernefs makes it fo foon taint. 
Young calves are apt to be attacked 
by infects, which difturb and torment 
them, and, at the fame time, prevent 
their fattening. In order to preferve 
them from thefe infedls, and even cure 
them when they are attacked, it will 
be proper to prepare an ointment of 
melted hogs-lard and quickfilver, well 
rubbed together in a marble or iron 
mortar. Spread this ointment upon a 
linen cloth, which wrap up in three 
folds, and flitch it for a collar to the 
calves. It will not only cure them, 
but alfo difperfe the infefts. 

Calf. Among fportmen, the young 
of the flag and hind. 

Calf's-Sxout, [Ar.tlrrlur.um.) A 
plant otherwife called Snap-dragon, of 
which there are feveral forts growing 
in feveral parts of England, and the 
jflands of the Archipelago ; they are 
propagated by feeds, flips, and cuttings. 
CALVES FOOT, {Arum.) Wake- 
robin. See Arum. 

CALLACARPA, {Jotmfonia.) A 
fhrubby plant growing plentifully in 
the woods near Charles-Town, South- 
Carolina ; it may be propagated by 
fowing the feeds in a moderate hot-bed 
and taking care to fhield them from 
the feverity of the winter, and inuring 
them by degrees to the open air, 



CALLOSITY, {Calhfitau) Any 
hardnefs, particularly of the bones or 
fibres. 

CALLOUS. Hard, indurated. 

CALLUS. The cement or union 
formed in a fradtured limb. Indurati- 
on, hardnefs. 

CALIX. The cup of the flower. 

CALKINS. Horfefhoes for frofty 
weather. 

CALTROPS, {Tributes.) A weed 
common among corn, in the fouth of 
France, in Spain and Italy, producing 
a fruit armed with itrong prickles, 
which are troublefome to cattle; it ob- 
tained its name of Caltrops from the 
likenefs the fruit bore to an ancient 
infirument fo called, thrown among th 
enemies horfes; there are feveral varie- 
ties in botanic gardens. 

CALX. Any thingreducibleto pow- 
der by burning ; as time, &c. 

CAMERY, or Frounce, are fmall 
warts or pimples in the midft of the 
palate of an horfe's mouth, which 
are very foft and fore, and are bred 
fometimes in his lips and tongue : It 
is occafioned many ways, fometimes 
by eating of wet hay, whereon rats or 
other vermin had piffed; fometimes 
by drawing frozen duft amongft the 
grafs into his mouth, and fometimes 
by licking up of venom : The figns 
are the appearing of thefe pimples and 
whelks, and forenefs of them, with the 
unfavorinefs of his food that he hath 
eaten before, and his falling from his 
meat. They are cured by letting him 
blood in the two greateft veins undsr 
his tongue, and warning the fore with 
vinegar and fait, or burning the pim- 
ples on the head, and warning them 
with ale and fait till they bleed. 

CAMELS HAY, [Juncus cdoratus.} 
Sweet- rufh or camels-hay. This is a 
dry fmooth flalk, brought to us along 
with the leaves, and fometimes the 
flowers, from Turkey and Arabia, tied 
up in bundles about a foot long. The 
italk, in fhape and colour, fomewhat 
refembles a barley ftraw : it is full ot 
a fungous pith, like thofe of our corn- 
mon rufhes : the leaves are like thofe 
of wheat, and furround the ftalk with 
feveral coats, as in the reed ; the flow- 
ers are of a carnation colour, ftriped 
with a lighter purple. The whole 
plant, when in perfection, has a hot, 
binerifh, not unpleafanj:, aromatic 
tafte, and a very fragrant fmell ; by 
Z long 



CAM 



CAN 



long keeping, it lofes greatly of Its aro- 
matic flavour. DifHlled with water, 
it yields a considerable quantity ot ef- 
fential oil. It was formerly often ufed 
as an aromatic, and in obAiuctions of 
the vifceia, Sec. but at prefent is fcarce 
othe'wife employed than as an ingre- 
dient in mithridate and theriaca. 

CAMMOCK ; [Obsw's.] Averytrou- 
blefcme weed growing in diffeient 
countries of Europe, there are four fen ts 
in England growing wild, It is called 
fc£. — alfo fettywhin or rejl/uirrcw. A prickly 
kind with blue flowers is recommended 
in medicine, and the root is faid to be 
aperient and diuretic —the roots of thefe 
phnts fpread fo far and fo deep in the 
ground as often to flop the plough. 

CAMOMILE, {Clum-Mmdum, Anthe- 
w.-«.J It is a trailing peiennial plant, 
which puts out roots from the bran- 
ches as they lay on the ground, where- 
by it fpreads and multiplies greatly ; 
fo that whoever is willing to cultivate 
this plant, need only procure a few of 
the flips in the fpring, and plant them 
a foot afunder, that they may have 
room to fpread, and they will foon co- 
ver the ground. The flowers of this 
fort are ordered for medicinal ufs, but 
the market people generally fell the 
douhle flowers, whicli are much larger 
but not fo ffrong as the Angle. 1 he 
double fort is equally hardy, and may 
be propagated in the fame manner. 

There are feveral forts pr.-ferved in 
the botanic gardens, ate all propagated 
by feeds, and may be fown on a bed of 
common ea;th in the faring, when the 
plants are large enough tt>ey may be 
tranfplanted into large borders near 
tree: or fhrubs, wheie they may have 
room to grow. The flowers are ac- 
counted ftimulating, carminative, &c. 
an infufior. of them drank warm incites 
the operation of an emetic, while a 
cold infufion is a good ftomachic in 
fome cafes. 

Stinking C a M o M I L f , [C&tula Fcetida . ] 
* // ^ / / // ^vMayweed, a wild fpecies of camomile. 
(f//A''"ra trailing perennial plant, which puts 
r v/y/'V out roots from its branches as they lie 
ss- f on the ground. By this means and by 

/**■*** ft'* fcattering its feeds long betore the corn 
i0 _ is ripe, it fpreads and multiplies great- 

ly. It flowers in May, and thence has 
acquired the name of may-weed. 

The means of extirpat ng it are, 
fummer fallows, repealed good harrow- 
ing, and burning the collected roots, as 



is ufua! in this and in fimilar cafes, 
or whicli will be found flill mora 
effectual, frequent and carelul hcrfe- 
hoeing^ What efcapes thefe clear- 
ings mould be very carefully pulled 
up by hand j for the common weeding 
hook will not go deep enough to take 
out the whole of the long flender tap- 
root of this plant, of which every re- 
maining bit that has a knot in it will 
produce new (hoots. Nor ought the 
farmer to regret this fmall additional y 
expence, to get rid of one of the moil y 
fatal enemies his corn can have. Mr. */€&. 
Lsflie affures us, that as good a crop of ////J&l 
wheat as one would wifh to fee all the^/SJ^j/JL 
winter time was, to his knowledge, fo(/fi, ' /•/. 
delfroyed by the coining up of inay-T '• 

weeds and J^oppjes in the fpring and , 
fummer, that it did not at lalt yield fa, ~ 
much as the feed. J"cc {/itsirts^Tfl £** C . 

CAM PAN UL ATE. Made like a 
bell. 

CAMPHIRE or Camphor, [Cam- 
phpra.] fee Bay. 

CAMPION, [Lychnis.] A perennial 
plant which may be propagated by 
parting the roots, or feeds. There are 
feveral fpecies, as xhtfcarlct lychnis, bat- 
chelor't buttens, calch-jiy, &cC. 

CANAL. An artificial river or paf- 
fage for water. 

CANARY Seed, a fmall feed cul- 
tivated for birds, &c. It is fown about 
the beginning of March on land that 
is tolerably clean and frelh, about thiee 
pecks to an acre in drills or furrows; 
and as the plants come up, they muft 
be kept clean by hceing or weeding. 

They fow fucceffive crops on the 
fame land for eight or ten years; and 
fowing canary feed would be a very 
great improvement to lands which lie 
convenient for water carriage to Lon- 
don markets, was it not a crop the far- 
mer ought by no means to depend up- 
on, not only becaufe the return, or 
quantity it yields, varies greatly, but 
alfo on account of the fluctuation in 
the price of this feed in the London 
markets, where the greateftand almoft 
the whole demand is. 

CANKER. A difeafe in trees pro- 
ceeding chiefly from the nature of the 
foil, for the curing whereof it muft be 
picked clean off, and fome clay well 
mixt with hay, bound about the can- 
ker'd place: Sometimes the ground it- 
felf (as well as after grafting, or fome 
other wound, the rain does) iogenders 

the 



CAN 



CAN 



the canker in fruit-trees, and t!ie na- 
ture of the fruit often happens to be 
fuch, that its trees will be cankery in 
fome forts of land more than others : 
in which cafes, as much of the can- 
ke r y boughs are to be cutoff as may be, 
and the roots uncovered, and fo left o- 
pen until the fpring, when well-tem- 
pered fwine's dung muft be applied, 
and that in great quantity, to the roots: 
and this has been found to have wrought 
an effectual cure ; but when the cut- 
ting off the canker or cankered bran- 
ches, and the faid application will not 
i do, and that the tree be much infecled, 
the beft way will be to place a better 
in the room of it. 

CANKER. In farriery, is a very 
loathfome difeafe, which, if it continue 
long uncured, will fo felter and putri- 
fy the place where it is, that it will 
eat to the very bone; and if it happens 
to come upon the tongue, will eat it 
afunder ; lighting upon the nofe, it 
devours the griltle through ; and if it 
comes upon any part of the flefh, it 
frets and gnaws it in great breadth : It 
may be eafily known, for where it is, 
the places will be raw and bleed often, 
and many times a white fcurf will 
grow upon the place infefted there- 
with. It proceeds many ways, either 
by melancholy and filthy blood engen- 
dred in the body, by unwholefome 
meat, or by fome fharp and fait hu- 
mours, coming by cold, not long before 
taken, which will make his breath to 
ltink very much. When this difeafe is 
in the mouth, it will be full of blifters, 
and the beaft cannot eat his meat, and 
it muft proceed from crude and un- 
digefted meat, ranknefs of food, or un- 
natural heat comingfrom the ftomach, 
and fometimes from cold taken in the 
head, where the rheum binds upon the 
roots and kernels of the tongue, which 
hath, as it were, firanglcd and made 
ftreijht the paffages of the ftomach ; 
and when the eyes are infected with it, 
which proceeds from a r<mk blood de- 
scending from the head into them, 
where it breeds a little worm like a 
pifmire, that grows in the corner next 
his nofe, and will eat it in time, &c. 
It may be known by the great and 
fmall pimples within and without the 
eyelids. 

There are many things in general 
good for the killing of this diftemper 
in any part of the bealVs body ; but 



more particularly, firft, for that in the 
mouth and nofe, take white- wine half 
a pint, roch allum the quantity of a 
walnut, bay-falt half a fpoonful, Eng- 
lifh honey one fpoonfull, red fage, rue, 
rib-wort, bramble-leaves, of each alike; 
let them be boiled in the white wine 
till a quarter be confumed, and injeft 
this water into the fore : Or if it be in 
the mouth, let the place be warned 
with a cloth faftened to a Hick, and 
drefs him therewith twice a day or 
oftner. 2. Take the juice of plantane, 
as much vinegar, and the fame weight 
of the powder of allum, with which 
anoint the fore twice or thrice a day 
01 oftner. 3. A like quantity of gin- 
ger and allum, made into fine powder, 
and mixed with honey, till they be 
very thick like a falve, will ferve to a- 
noint the place, after it has firft been 
very well wafhed with allum and vine- 
gar. 4. Half a pound of allum, a 
quarter of a pint of honey, columbine 
and fage leaves, a handful of each, 
boiled together in three pints of run- 
ning-water, till a pint be confumed, is 
good for the canker in the mouth par- 
ticularly, which muft be wafhed morn- 
ing and night therewith. 

This diforder often attacks the foot 
of a horfe, and generally proceeds from 
thrufhes, when they prove rotten and 
putrid, though many other caufes may 
produce this diforder. The method 
ufed by farriers for the cure is gene- 
rally with hot oils, fuch as vitriol, aqua 
foitis,and butter of antimony, which 
are very proper to keep down the ri- 
fing flefh, and fhould he ufed daily till 
the fungus is fupprefied, when once in 
two days will be fufficient, Arewing 
red precipitate powder over the new 
grown flefh, till the fo!e begins tog>ow. 
There is one great error committed 
often in this cure, which is, in not ha- 
ving fufficient regard to the hoof ; for 
it fhould not only be cut off, wherever 
it preffes upon the tender parts, but 
fhould be kept foft with linfeed oil ; 
and as often as it is dieffed, bathe the 
hoof, all round the coronet, with cham- 
ber-lye. Purging is very proper to 
complete the cure. 

CANDLEBERRYT R FK,[Af V r;Vj.] 
Of this plant, there are feveral fpeciei 
growing naturally in boggy places in 
England, America, and other parts of 
the globe : In fome parts of North 
America they extract from the berries 
Z 1 a 



C A N 



CAN 



a kind of wax, of which they maks 
candles. 

CANDY CARROT. See Candy 
Carrot, under the article Car rot. 

CANDYTUFT, [Iberh umbellata.] 
An annual planr,which fcwn in patches 
along borders, will have a pretty effect 
from its variety, and by lowing at two 
or three different feafons there may be 
a fucceffion continued in flowers till 
Autumn. 

Candytuft Tree, [&trh femptv- 
f.irens.] This is a low fhrubhy plant, 
which feldom rifes above a foot and ?. 
half high, it flowers in autumn, and 
the leaves continue green all the year. 

It is fomewhat tender, and therefore 
beft prefewed in the green-houfe in 
winter. It is propagated by cuttings, 
which if planted during any of the 
fummer months, and (haded from the 
fun will take root in two months. 
There are two or three varieties. 

CANE, [Cfi«Hrf.] Indian cane, of 
this there are four forts. i(t. The com- 
mon broad-leaved flowery cane. 2. 
The Indian flowering cane with a pale 
red fl >wer. 3, Indian cane with glau- 
cous leaves, a very lance flower, and the 
appeal ance of the marfh iris. 4. Yel- 
low Indian reed. 

The ftrfl fort grows naturally in 
both Indies: the inhabitants of the 
Britifh iflands in America call it In- 
dian (hot, from the roundnefs and hard- 
nefs of the feeds. 

As this fort is a native of the 
warmed parts of America, fo it re- 
quires to be placed in a moderate Hove 
in winter, where they always fiowerin 
that feafon, at which time they make 
a fine appearance; and in the fummer 
place them abroad in a fheltered (itua- 
tion with other tender exotic plants, 
where they generally flower again, and 
produce ripe feeds annually. 

The fecond fort grows naturally in 
Carolina, and fome of the other nor- 
thern provinces cf America. The 
leaves of this fort are longer than thofe 
of the former fort. If the roots of 
this fort are planted in warm borders 
and a dry foil, they will live through 
the winter, if mild, in the open air 
without cover, and flower well every 
year. 

The feeds of the third were brought 
from Carthagena in New Spain, in the 
year 1733, which produced very firong 
plants the firft year, fome of which 



flowered the fame autumn. The roots 
of this aie much larger than either of 
theformer forts, and Hi ike down firong 
flefiiy fibres deep in the ground. The 
rtalks rife in good earth feven or eight 
feet high. The leaves aie near two 
feet long, narrow, fmooth, and of a fea 
green colour. The flowers are pro- 
duced in (hort thick fpikes at the ex- 
tremity, which are laig., and of a pale 
yellow colour ; the fegments of the 
petal are broad, but their fhape like 
thofe of the other forts, but contain 
fewer feeds, which are very large. 

AH the. fort; are propagated by feeds, 
which fhould be fown on a hot-bed in 
the fpting, and when the plants are fit 
to remove, they fhould be tranfplanted 
into feparate fmail pots, and plunged 
into a moderate hot-hed of tanner's 
bark, obferving to (hade them till they 
have taken root \ after which they 
fhould have a large (lure of free air, 
admitted to them every day in warm 
weather. As thefe plants will make 
great progrefs in their growth, fo they 
mud be fhifted into larger pots, and 
part of them plunged into the hot- bed 
again; the ethers may be placed abroad 
in June, with other exotic plants, in a 
warm fituation. Thofe which are 
placed in the hot-bed, will be (hong 
enough to flower well in the Hove the 
following winter : they may remain 
abroad till the beginning of October, 
when they mull be removed into the 
Hove, and treated in the fame manner 
as the old plants. Thefe plants will 
continue many years with proper ma- 
nagement, hut as young plants always 
flower better than the old toots, fo it is 
fcarce worth while to continue them 
after they hive borne good feeds. 

The feeds of the fourth fort came 
from Brafil ; this hath much the ap- 
pearance of the firft, but the leaves 
are longer, the flower-flalks rife much 
higher, and the flowers are larger, and 
of a deeper crimfon colour, fo make 
a more noble appearance. This fhould. 
be treated as the firfl. 
C ANDI A LIONS VOOT, [Cotanatiche] 
There aie two fpeciesof thisplant,one 
of which is perennial and may be pro- 
pagated by feeds or flips ; the other 
annual, and propagated by feeds only ; 
they flower in June, and feeds ripen in 
Auguft and September. 

CANTERBURY BELLS, fee Bell 
Flower. 

CAPERBUSH, 



CAP 



CAP 



CAPER BUSH, [Cipparh.] This Is 
a low prickly fhrub, found wild in 
Italy, and feveral parts ot' the Mediter- 
ranean : it is raifed with us by lowing 
the feeds upon old walls, where they 
take root betwixt the bricks, and en- 
dure for many years. The bark of 
the root is pretty thick, of an a.h co- 
lour, with feveral tranfveife wrinkles 
on the furface: cut in flices and laid 
to dry, it rolls up into quills This 
bark has a bitterifh acrid tafte : it is 
reckoned aperient and diuretic ; and 
recommended in feveral chronic difor- 
ders, for opening obltruttions of the 
vifcera. The buds, pickled with vine- 
gar, &c. are ufed at table ; and are im- 
ported from Italy in pickle. They are 
iuppofed to excite appetite, and pro- 
mote digeftion j and to be particularly 
ufeful, as detergents and aperients, in 
obflru&ions of the liver and fpleen. 
Their tafte and virtues depend more 
upon the faline matter introduced in- 
to them, than on the caper buds. 

Indian C APER.S, [CappansBadducca.] 
A native of Carthagena growing to 
the height of twelve feet. 

Tree Ca per, [Capparis Arborrefccns .] 
This is a native of Carthagena, and 
grows to the height of twenty feet. 

C API VI Tree, [Cyaifera] This tree 
grows near a village called Ayapel, in 
the province of Antiochi, in the Spa- 
nifh Weft Indies, which is about ten 
days journey from Carthagena. There 
are great numbers of thefe trees in the 
woods about this village, which grow 
to the height of fifty or fixty feet. 
Some of thefe trees do not yield any 
of the balfam ; thofe which do„ are 
diftinguifhed by a ridge which runs 
along their trunks : thefe trees are 
wounded in their center, and they 
place calabafh fhells, or fome other 
veflels to the wounded part, to receive 
the balfam, which will all flow out 
in a fhort time. One of thefe trees 
will yield five or fix gallons of balfam: 
but though thefe trees will thrive well 
after being tapped, yet they never af- 
ford any more balfam. 

The balfam of copaiba is an ufeful 
corroborating detergent medicine, ac- 
companied with a decree of irritation. 
It ftrenghens the nervous fyftem; tends 
to ioofen the belly, and in large dofes 
proves purgative, promotes urine, and 
femetimes the expulfion of gravel; 
cleanfes and heals ulcerations in the 
urinary pafiages, which it is fuppofed 



to perform more effectually than any 
of the other balfams. Fuller ohferves, 
that it gives the urine an intenfely bit- 
ter tafte, but not a Violet fmell as the 
turpentines do. — This halfam has been 
principally celebrated in gleets and 
the fluor albus, and externally as a 
vulnerary. The author above menti- 
oned recommends it likewife in dyfen- 
teries, in fcorbutic cachexies, in dif- 
eafes of the breaft and lungs, and in an 
acrimonious or putrefcent ftate of the 
juices: He fays he has known very 
dangerous coughs, which manifeflly 
threatened a confumption, cured by 
the ufe of this balfam alone ; and that 
notwithftanding its being hot and bit- 
ter, it has good effects even in he&ic 
cafes. — The dofe of this medicine 
rarely exceeds twenty or thirty drops, 
though fome diredl fixty or more. It 
may be conveniently exhibited in the 
form of an elaeofaccharum ; or tritu- 
rated with almonds into an emulfion ; 
or agitated with milk, which it thus 
readily unites with; It imperfeftly 
mingles, by agitation, with water alfo. 
CAPON, [Capo.] A gelded cock- 
chicken, which is gelded as foon as the 
dam has left him, that being the beft 
time, if his ftones be come down, or 
elfe as foon as they begin to crow : 
They are of two ufes, i. The one is 
to lead chicken, ducklings, young 
turkeys, pea-hens, pheafants, and par- 
tridges, which .'. capon will do all toge- 
ther, both naturally and kindly, and 
through the largenefs of his body, will 
eafily brood or cover thirty or five and 
thirty of them ; nay, he will lead them 
forth more fafely, and defend them 
much better againft kites and buzzards 
than the hen, wherefore the way to 
make him like them, is, with a fine 
fmall brier, or elfe fharp nettles, at 
night beat and fling all his breaft and 
nether parts, and then in the dark to 
feat the chicken under him, whofe 
warmth takes away the fmart, fo that 
he will much fall in love with them. 
2. The other ufe is to feed for the difb, 
as either at the barn door with craps 
or corn, or the fhavings of pulfe ; or 
elfe in pens in the houfe, by cramming 
them, which is the moft dainty ; and 
the beft way of doing it is, to take 
barley meal reafonably lifted, and mix- 
ed with new milk, made firft into a 
good ftiff dough, then into long crams, 
biggeft in the middle, and fmail at both 
ends 



CAP 



CAR 



ends, and then wetting them in luke- 
warm milk, give the capon a full gorge 
thereo three times a day, morning, 
noon, and night, and he will in a fort- 
night or three weeks be as fat as any 
man need to eat, and be fure give not 
the capon new meat till the firrt be 
digefted, and upon finding him fome- 
thing hard ol digeftion, you mult titt 
the meal finer, for it will then fooner 
pafs through their bodies. 

C APR ARIA. This plant grows in 
the warm parts of America, where it 
is often a troublefome weed in the 
plantations j it rifes with an angular 
green ftalk about a foot and a half 
high, fending out branches at every 
joint, which fometimes come out by 
pairs oppofite, but often there are 
three at a joint ftanding round the 
ftalk j the leaves are alfo placed round 
the branches by threes ; thefe ftand 
upon fhort foot-ttalks, are oval, hairy, 
and a little indented on their edges. 
The flowers are produced at the wings 
of the leaves, coming out on each fide 
the ftalk, each foot (talk fuftaining 
three flowers ; they are white and fuc- 
ixeded by conical capfules compreffed 
at the top, opening in two parts, and 
4iled with fmall feeds. 

CAPRIFOIL,fee Honey-Suckle. 
CAP.-. CUM, ' uinea Pepper; there 
are leveral forts of this plant which 
ate propagated by feeds, which rnuft 
be I'nwn upon a hot-berl in thefpring, 
and when the punts have fix leaves, 
they mould be tranfplanted on ano- 
ther hot- bed at four or five inches dif- 
tan.ee, fhadiiig them in the day-time 
from the fur. until they have taken 
root j after w.ich they muft have a 
large (hare ot air admitted to them in 
warm weather, to prevent their draw- 
ing up weak. Toward the end of 
Way the plants muft be hardened by 
fiepiveb to bear the open air, and in 
] une .hey fnould be carefully taken up, 
pre'erving as much earth about their 
roots as potfible, and planted into 
borders of rich earth, obferving to wa- 
ter them well, as alfo to fhade them 
until they have taken root 5 after 
which time, they will require no other 
management but to keep them clean 
from weeds, and in very dry feafons to 
refrefh them two or three times a week 
viti' water. Thefe directions are for 
the culture of the common forts of 
eiplicurn, which are generally planted 
by way ot ornament. But the plants 



of that fort, which are propagated 
for pickling, fhould be planted in a 
rich fpot of ground, in a warm fitua- 
tion, about a foot and a half afunder, 
and fhaded till they have taken root, 
and afterwards duly watered in dry 
weather, which will greatly promote 
their growth, and caufe them to be 
more fruitful, as alfo enlarge the fize 
of the fruit. By this management there 
maybe three or four crops of fruit for 
pickling obtained the fame year, pro- 
vided the feafon proves not too cold. 

CARAWAY, [Carum.] This is an 
umbelliferous plant, cultivated with 
us in gardens, both for culinary and 
medicinal ufe. The feeds have an aro- 
matic fmell, and a warm pungent 
tafte. Thefe are in the number of the 
four greater hot feeds ; and frequently 
employed as aftomachic and carmina- 
tive in flatulent colics, and the like. 

The belt feafon for fowing the feeds 
of this plant is in autumn, foon alter 
they are ripe, when they will more 
certainly grow than thofe fown in the 
fpringj and the plants which rife in 
the autumn generally flower the fol- 
lowing feafon, fo that a fummer's 
growth is hereby faved. 

CARDAMOM, [Cardamomum.] A 
medicinal feed brought from the Eaft- 
Indies, of two kinds, the greater and 
the leffer; the latter is chiefly ufed in 
medicine. Cardamom feeds arc a very 
warm, grateful, pungent aromatic, 
and frequently employed as fuch in 
practice : they have this peculiar ad- 
vantage, that notwithftanding their 
pungency, they do not, like thofe of 
the pepper kind, immoderately heat 
or inflame the bowels. Both water 
and rectifyed fpirit extract their vir- 
tues by infufion, and elevate them in 
diltillation; with this difference, that 
the tincture, and diftilled fpirit, are 
confiderably more giateful than the 
infufion and diftilled water : the wa- 
tery infufion appears turbid and mu- 
cilaginous ; the tincture made in fpi- 
rit limpid and tranfparent. The hulks 
of thefe feeds, which have very little 
fmell or taite, may be comrnodioufly 
feparated, by committing the whole to 
the mortar, when the feed will readily 
pulverize, fo as to be fieed from the 
fin.ll by the fieve : this fhould not be 
clone till j u ft before ufingthem ; for if 
kept without the hufks, they foon lofc 
confiderably of their flavour. 

CAimi- 



CAR 



CAR 



CARDINALS FLOWER, [Raputt- 
tium.] There are feveral varieties of 
this flower cultivated in gardens j the 
time of flowering is in July and Au- 
guft, and if the weather proves favour- 
able they will fometimes produce good 
feeds in England. Thefe plants are 
natives of Virginia and Carolina, 
where they grow by the fides of rivu- 
lets, and make a moft beautiful ap- 
pearance, from whence the feeds are 
often fent to England. Thefe feeds 
commonly arrive here in the fpnng; 
at which time they mould be fown in 
pots of light earth, and but juft co- 
vered over, for if the feeds are buried 
deep they will not grow : Thefe pets 
fhould be placed under a frame to de- 
fend them from cold until the fesfon 
is a little advanced, but they fliould 
not be placed on a hot-bed, which will 
deftroy the feeds. 

When the weather is warm, towards 
the middle of April, thefe pots fliould 
be piaced in the open air, in a fituation 
where they may have the morning-fun 
till twelve o'clock, obferving to water 
them conftantly in dry weather ; and 
when the plants come up, they mould 
be tranfplanted each into a fmall pot 
filled with frefh light earth, and placed 
in the fame fituation, obferving to wa- 
ter them in dry weather; and in 
Winter they fhould be placed under a 
hot-bed frame, whete they may be fhel- 
tered from fevere frofls ; but in mild 
weather, they fhould be as much ex- 
pofed to the open air as poffible. 

The March following, thefe plants 
fhould be put into larger pots filled 
with the fame frefh earth, and placed 
as before, to the morning fun, obfer- 
ving to water them in dry weather, 
which will caufe them to flower flrong 
the autumn following. 

Thefe plants are aifo propagated by 
parting of their roots : The bell fea- 
ibn for which is, either foon atter they 
are pall flower, or in March, obfer- 
ving to water and manage them, as 
hath been directed for the feedling 
plants, both in Winter and Summer. 

CARDUUS BEN EDICT US, \Cm- 
cus.] BlelTed thirtle : This is a peren- 
nial plant, cultivated in gardens : it 
flowers in June and July, and perfects 
its feeds in the autumn. The herb 
fhould be gathered when in flower, 
dried in the lhade, and kept in a very 
dry airy place, to prevent its rotiing or 



growing mouldy, which it is very apt 
to do. The leaves have a penetrating 
bitter tarte, not very flrong, or very 
durable ; accompanied with an un- 
grateful flavour, which they are in 
great meafure freed from by keeping. 
Water extracts, in a few minutes, even 
without heat the lighter and more 
grateful parts of this plant : if the di- 
geftion is continued for fome hours, 
the difagreeable parts are taken up: a 
flrong decodlion is very naufeous and 
effenfive to the llomach. Rectified 
fpirit gains a very p.eafant bitter tarte, 
which remains uninjured in the tx- 
tracT. The virtues of this plant letm 
to be little known in the prclent prac- 
tice. The naufeous decoclion us fome- 
times uftd to provoke vomiting : and 
a flrong intufion to promote the ope- 
ration of other emetics. But this ele- 
gant bitter, when freed from the of- 
fenfive parts of the herb, may be ad- 
vantageoufly applied to other pui pofes. 
We have frequently experienced ex- 
cellent effccls from a light infufion of 
carduus in iofs of appetite where the 
flomach was injured by irregularities. 
A flronger i'nfuhcn made in cold or 
warm water, if drank freely and the 
patient kept warm, occafions a plenti- 
ful fweat. and promotes all the fecre- 
tions in general. The feeds of this 
plant are alfo confiderably bitter, and 
have been fometimes ufed in the fame, y 
intention as the leaves. «. / 2-<- /3zo/*Aj //^/"•^> 

CARFE. Ground unbroken in huf- 
bandry. 

CARIES. Rottennefs, applied to 
bones. 

CARIOUS. Rotten. 

CARLINE THISTLE, [CVW] 
The forts are, ill. Common v ild Car- 
line Thirtle. 2d. Small wild Spanifh 
Carline Thirtle. 3d. Low Carline 
Thirtle with a large white flower. 
4th. Fifh Thirtle with a redclifh, pur- 
ple, fpreading flower. 5th. Umbel- 
lated Fifh Thirtle of Apula. 

The firft fort grows naturally upon 
fterile ground in moft parts of Eng- 
land, fo is rarely admitted into gardens, 
but the others are preferved in botanic 
gardens for the fake of variety. They 
grow naturally in the fouth of Fiance, 
Spain, and Italy. They are all propa- 
gated by fowingthe feeds in the fpring. 

CARMINAT1VLS. Medicines gi- 
ven to expel wind. 

CARNATION, 



CAR 



CAR 



CARNATION, [Dianrhus.] Under 
this head we (hall range clove gilliflovv- 
ers and pinks; the forts are, ift. Com- 
mon narrow leaved wild pink. 2d, 
Englifh fmall creeping, or Maiden 
Pink ; commonly called the Matted 
Pink by feedfmen. 3d. Branching 
Pink with a white flower having a 
purple circle ; commonly called Moun- 
tain Pink. 4th. Single wild Pink 
with a fmall, pale, reddifh flower. 5th. 
Single Garden Carnation with a large 
flower. 6th. Bearded wild Pink ; cal- 
led Deptford Pink. 7th. Broad-leaved 
Garden Sweet William. Slh. Wild 
childing Sweet William. 9th. Italian 
umbellated Mountain Pink, with flow- 
ers varying from yellow to an iron co- 
lour in the fame duller. 10th. The 
China Pink. nth. Dwarf wild Pink 
with one flower. 12th. Dwarf broad- 
leaved Pink. 13th. The Superb Pink. 
14th. The lealt wild Pink. 

Thefirit fort is rarely admitted into 
gardens, the flower having little beauty. 

The fecond fort is a low trailing 
plant, whofe ftalks lie on the ground, 
and grows naturally in feveral parts of 
England, fo is not now often cultivated 
in gardens ; but formerly the feeds 
were fown to make edgings for the 
borders of the flower-garden by the 
title of Matted Pink, by which name 
the feeds were fold in the (hops. 

The third fort grows naturally upon 
Chedder rocks in Somerfet(hire, and 
fome other parts of England ; this was 
formerly cultivated in the gardens by 
the title of Mountain Pink. It hath 
a refemblance of the fecond fort, but 
the leaves are fhorter and of a grayifh 
colour ; the ftalks grow taller and 
branch more; the flowers are larger, 
of a white colour with a purple circle 
at the bottom, like that fott of Pink 
called Pheafant's Eye. As the flowers 
of this fort have no fcent, the plants 
are feldom kept in gardens. 

The fourth fort grows naturally in 
feveral parts of England, frequently 
upon old wails 5 it is a fmall Angle 
Pink of a pale red colour, fo is not 
cultivated in s^rdens. 

The fifth fort is a fmall Angle Car- 
nation, which has been long cart out 
■of all the gardens ; from fome one of 
this fort it is fuppofsd, the fine flowers 
n^w cultivated In the gardens had 
their original. 

The iixth fort grows naturally in fe- 



veral parts of England, and particu- 
larly in a meadow near Deptford in 
Kent, from whence it had the title of 
Deptford Pink. This is or the kind 
called Sweet William; the flowers of 
thefe grow in clofe clufters at the end 
of the branches ; they are red, and have 
long bearded empalements. 

The feventh fort is the common 
Sweet William, which has been long 
cultivated in the gardens for ornament, 
of which there are now great varieties 
which differ in the form and colour of 
their flowers, as alfo in the fize and 
fhape of their leaves ; thofe which 
have narrow leaves were formerly ti- 
tled Sweet Johns by the gardeners, 
and thofe with broad leaves were called 
Sweet Williams ; there are fome of 
both thefe forts with double flowers, 
which are very ornamental plants in 
gardens. 

The eighth fort grows naturally in 
the fouth of France, in Spain and 
Italy ; but has little beauty, fo the 
plants are feldom kept in gardens. 

The ninth fort is a perennial plant. 
The roots will continue two years, and 
produce flowers and feeds; but the 
young plants of the firft year always 
produce the ftrongeft flowers. 

The tenth fort came originally from 
China, fo it is titled the China Pink ; 
the flowers of this have no fcent, but 
there pre a great variety of lively co- 
lours among them, and of late years 
there has been great improvements 
made in the double flowers of this fort, 
fome of which are as full of petals as 
the double Pink, and their colours are 
very rich. They are commonly raifed 
every year from feeds, but the roots 
will continue two years in dry ground. 
The eleventh fort is found growing 
naturally upon old walls and buildings 
in many parts of England ; this is a 
Angle fmall Pink of a fweet odour, but 
of a pale colour, fo makes no appear- 
ance ; and fince the great improvement 
which has been made in thefe flowers 
by culture, this hath been entirely neg- 
lecled. 

The twelfth fort grows naturally on 
the Alps. It is fometimes prefcrved 
in botanic gardens for the fake of va-* 
riety, but is rarely admitted into other 
gardens. 

The thirteenth fort grows naturally 
in fome parts of Germany, and in 
Denmark. Tits roots of this feldom 

live 



CAR 



CAR 



live more than two years, but they are 
in their greateft beauty the fir ft year 
of their flowering, therefore young 
plants fhould be annually raifed from 
feeds. 

The fourteenth fort is a very dimi- 
nutive plant, with fhort narrow leaves ; 
the (talk rifes little more than fix inches 
high, and is terminated by a fingle 
flower of a pale red colour, fo is fel- 
dom cultivated unlefs in botanic gar- 
dens for the fake of variety. 

The forts here enumerated are fuch 
as the botanifts allow to be diftincT: 
fpecies; and all the varieties of fine 
flowers which are now cultivated in 
the gardens of the curious, are fuppofed 
to be only accidental variations which 
have been produced by culture; the 
number of thefe are greatly increafed 
annually in many different parts of Eu- 
rope, fo that as new varieties are ob- 
tained, the old flowers are rejected. 

The plants of this genus may be 
properly enough divided into three (ec~ 
tions. The ftrlt to include all the va- 
riety of Pinks, the fecond all the Car- 
nations, and the third thofeof the Sweet 
William; for although thefe agiee fo 
nearly in their principal charafters, as 
to be included under the fame genus 
by the botanifts, yet they never vary 
from one to the other, though they fre- 
quently change and Vary in the colour 
of their flowers. 

And firft the Pink, of which there 
are a great variety now cultivated in 
the gardens; the principal of which 
are, the Damafk Pink, the White 
Shock, the Pheafant Eye with double 
and fingle flowers, varying greatly in 
their fize and colour, the Cob Pink, 
Dobfon's Pink, and Bat's Pink. The 
Old Man's Head, and Painted Lady, 
rather belong to the Carnation. 

The Damafk Pink is the firfl which 
flowers of the double forts ; this hath 
a fhort ftalk; the flower is not very 
large, and not fo double as many 
others ; the colour is of a pale purple 
inclining to red, but is very fweet. 

The next which flowers is the White 
Shock, which was fo called from the 
whitenefs of its flowers, and the bor- 
ders of the petals being much jagged 
and fringed ; the fcent of this is not 
fo agreeable as that of fome others. 

Then comes all the different kinds 
of Pheafant's Eye, of which there are 
-frequently new varieties raifed, which 



are either titled.from the perfons w?;o 
raifed them, or the places where they 
were raifed ; fome of thefe have very 
large double flowers, but thofe which 
built their pods are not fo generally 
efteemed. 

The Cob Pink comes after thefe to 
flower; the flalks of this are much 
taller than thofe of any of the former; 
the flowers are very double, and of a 
bright red colour; thefe have the moit 
agreeable odour of all the forts, fo me- 
rit a place in every good garden. The 
time of tiie Pinks flowering is from 
the latter end of May to the middle 
of July, and frequently that fort of 
Pheafant Eye, which is called Bat's 
Pink, will flower again in autumn. 

Trie Old Man's Head Pink, and the 
Painted Lady, do not flower till July, 
coming at the fame feafon with the 
Carnation, to which they are more al- 
lied than the Pink. The firft, when 
it is in its proper colours, is purple 
and white, itriped and fpotted, but this 
frequently is of one plain colour, which 
is purple ; this fort will continue flow- 
ering till the frott in autumn puts a 
flop to it, and the flowers having an 
agreeable fcent renders them valuable. 
The Painted Lady is chiefly admired 
for the liveiinefs of its colour, for it 
is not fo fsveet, or of fo long continu- 
ance as the other. 

The common Pinks are propagated 
either by feeds, which is the way to 
obtain new varieties, or by making 
layers of them as is praclifed for Car- 
nations, or by planting (lips, which, 
if carefully managed, will take root 
very well. 

If they are propagated by feeds, 
there fhould be care taken in the choice 
of them, and only the feeds of the beft 
forts faved, where perfons are curious 
to have the fineft flowers. Thefe feeds 
may be fown in the fpring, and the 
plants afterwards treated in the fame 
manner as is hereafter directed for the 
Carnation ; with this difference only, 
that as the Pinks are iefs tender, fo 
they may be more hardily treated, 
Thofe which are propagated by layers 
muft be alfo managed as the Carna- 
tion, for which there are full inftruc- 
tions hereafter given. The Old Man's 
Head, and Painted Lady Pinks, are 
commonly propagated this way, but 
mod of the other forts are propagated 
from flips, 

A a The 



CAR 



CAR 



The beft time to plant the flips of 
Pinks is about the end of July, when, 
if there fliould happen rain, it will be 
of great fervice to them ; but if the 
weather be dry, they will require to be 
conftantly watered every other day un- 
til they have taken root ; thefe fhould 
be planted in a fhady border, and the 
ground fhould be dug well and all the 
clods broken, and if no rain falls 
it fliould be well foaked with wa- 
ter a few hours before the flips are 
planted; then the flips fhould betaken 
from the plants, and all their lower 
leaves ftripped off, and planted as fcon 
as poffible after, for if they are fuffered 
to lie long after they are taken from 
the plants, they will wither and fpoil ; 
thefe need not be planted at a greater 
diftance than three inches fquare, and 
the ground muft be clofed very hard 
about them ; then they muft be well 
watered, and this muft be repeated as 
often as it is found neceffary, till the 
cuttings have taken root ; after which 
they will require no other care but to 
keep them clean from weeds till au- 
tumn, when they fliould betranfplanted 
to the borders of the flower-garden 
where they are to remain •. There are 
fome who plant the flips of Pinks later 
in the feafonthan is here directed, but 
thefe plants are never fo ftrong, nor 
flower fo well as thofe which are early 
planted. 

We fhall next proceed to the cul- 
ture of the Carnation ; thefe the flo- 
rifts diftinguifh into four claffes. 

The firft they call Flakes ; thefe are 
of two colours only,, and their ftripes 
are large, going quite through the 
petals. 

The fecond are called Bizars ; thefe 
have flowers marked or variegated with 
three or four different colours, in irre- 
gular fpots and ftripes. 

The third are called Piquettes ; the 
flowers of thefe have always a white 
ground, and are fpotted (or pounced, 
as they cal it) with fcarlet, red, pur- 
ple, or other colours. 

Thefourth are called Painted Ladies ; 
thefe have their petals of a red or pur- 
ple colour on their upper fide, and are 
white underneath. 

Of each of thefe claffes there are 
numerous varieties, but particularly 
of the Piquettes, which fome years 
a?o were chiefly in efteem with the 
florifts, but of late years the Flakes 



have been in greater requeft than any 
of the other kinds. To enumerate 
the varieties of the principal flowers 
in any one of thefe claffes, would be 
needlefs, fince every country produces 
new flowers almoft every year; fo that 
thofe flowers, which, at their firft raid- 
ing were greatly valued, are in two or 
three yeai s become fo common as to be 
of little worth, efpecially if they are 
defective in any one property. There- 
fore, (where flowers are fo liable to 
mutability, either from the fancy of 
the owner, or that better kinds arc 
yearly produced from feeds, which with 
good florifts always take place of 
older, which are turned out of the gar- 
den to make room for them) it would 
be but fuperfiuous in thi> place to give 
a lift of their names, which are gene- 
rally borrowed either from the names 
or titles of noblemen, or from the 
perfons' names or places of abode who 
raifed them. 

Thefe flowers are propagated either 
from feeds (by which new flowers are 
obtained) or by layers, for the increafe 
of thofe forts which are worthy main- 
taining ; the method of propagating 
them from feed, is thus : 

Having obtained fome good feeds, 
either of your own faving, or from a 
friend that you can confide in, about 
the middle of April, prepare fome pots 
or boxes (according to the quantity of 
feed you have to fow) thefe fhould be 
filled with frefh light earth mixed with 
rotten neats dung, which fliould be 
well incorporated together; then fow 
your feeds thereon (but not too thick) • 
covering it about a quarter of an inch 
with the fame light earth* placing the 
pots or cafes fo as to receive the morn- 
ing fun only till eleven of the clock, 
obferving alfo to refrefh the earth with 
water as often as it may require; in a 
month or five weeks the plants will 
come up, and if kept clear from weeds 
and duly watered, will be fit to tranf- 
plant about the latter end of June; at 
which time fhould be prepared fome 
beds (of the fame fort of earth as was 
direded to fow them in) in an open 
airy fituation, in which they fhould be 
planted at the diftance of three inches 
fquare, obferving to water and fhade 
them till they have taken new root, 
then they muft be kept clear from 
weeds ; in thefe beds they may remain 
till the end of Auguft, by which time 
they 



CAR 



CAR 



they will have grown fo large as almoft 
to meet each other; then prepare fome 
more beds of the like good earth (in 
quantity proportionable to the flowers 
raifed) in which they fhould be planted 
at fix inches diftance each way, and 
not above four rows in each bed, for 
the more conveniently laying fuch of 
them as may prove worthy preferring, 
for in thefe beds they fhould remain to 
flower. 

The alleys between thefe beds mould 
be two feet wide, that perfons may 
pafs between the beds to weed and 
clean them. If the feafon fhould prove 
very dry at this time, they fhould not 
be tranfplanted till there is fome rain, 
fo that it may happen to be the mid- 
dle, or latter end of September fome 
years, before there is wet enough to 
moiften the ground for this purpofe ; 
but if there is time enough for the 
plants to get root before the froft comes 
on, it will be fufficient. If the win- 
ter fhould prove fevere the beds fhould 
be arched over with hoops that they 
may be covered with mats, otherwife 
many of the plants may be deftroyed, 
for the good flowers are not fo hardy 
as the ordinary ones of this genus. 
There will be no other culture want- 
ing to thefe, but to keep them clean 
from weeds, and when they fhoot up 
their ftalks to flower, they muft be 
fupported by flicks to prevent their 
breaking. When the flowers begin to 
blow, they mult be looked over to fee 
which of them proffer to make good 
flowers ; as foon as that can be difco- 
vered, all the layers upon them fhould 
be laid ; thofe which are well marked, 
and blow whole without breaking 
their pods, fhould be referved to plant 
in borders, tofurnifh feeds; and thofe 
which burfl their pods, and i'eem to have 
good properties, fhould be planted in 
pots, to try what their flowers will be 
when managed according to art ; and 
it is not till the fecond year of flower- 
ing that any perfon can pronounce 
what the value of a flower will be; 
but in order to bewell acquainted with 
what the florifts call good properties, 
we fhall here fet them down. 

1. The Item of the flower fhould 
be ftrong, able to fupport the weight 
of the flower without nodding down. 

2. The petals of the flower fhould 
4e long, broad, and ftiff, and pretty 



eafy to expand, or (as the florifts term 
them) fhould be free flowerers. 

3. The middle pod of the flower 
fhould not advance too high above the 
petals in the other part of the flower. 

4. The colours fhould be bright, 
and equally marked all over the flower. 

5. The flower fhould be very full 
of leaves, fo as to render it when 
blown very thick and high in the mid- 
dle, and the outfide perfectly round. 

Having made choice of fuch flowers 
as promife well, thefe fhould be marked 
feparately for pots, and the round 
whole-blowing flowers for borders ; 
all fingle flowers, or fuch as are ill- 
coloured and not worth preferving, 
fhould be drawn out, that the good 
flowers may have the more air and 
room to grow ftrong ; when the layers 
of the good flowers have taken root 
(which will be fome time in Augufl) 
they fhould be taken off and planted 
out ; thofe that blow large in pots, 
and the other in borders (as hath been 
already dire&ed.) 

Of late years the whole-blowing 
flowers have been much more efteemed 
than thofe large flowers which burft: 
their pods , but efpecially thofe round 
flowers which have broad ftripes of 
beautiful colours, and round Rofe 
leaves, of which kinds there have 
been a great variety introduced frona 
France within thefe few years ; but as 
thefe French flowers are extremely apt 
to degenerate to plain colours, and be- 
ing much tenderer than thofe which 
are brought up in England, there are 
not fuch great prices given for the 
plants now as was a few years paft : 
From the prefent tafte of thefe whole- 
blowing flowers, many of the old va- 
rieties which had been turned out of the 
gardens of the florifts have been received 
again and large prices have been paid of 
late for fuch flowers as fome years ago 
were fold for one fhilling a dozen, or 
lefs, which is a ftrong proof of the va- 
riablenefs of the fancies of the florifts. 

Thebeft feafon for laying tl.efe flow- 
ers is in July, as foon as the (hoots are 
ftrong enough for that purpofe ; it is 
performed in the following manner ; 
after having ftripped off the leaves 
from the lower pait of the fhoot in- 
tended to be laid, make choice of a 
ftrong joint about the middle of the 
fhoot (not too near the heart of the 
A a 2 fhoot, 



CAR 



CAR 



fhoot, nor in die hard part next trie old 
plant ; then with a penknife make a 
Hit in the middle of the fhoot, from the 
under fide of the joint upward half the 
way or more, tfi the joint next above 
it, according to the diftance of the 
joints j then with your knife cut the 
tops cf the leaves, and alfo cut off the 
fwelling part of the joint where the flit 
is made, fo that the part flit may be 
fhaped like a tongue ; (when that out- 
ward fkin is pared off, which, if left 
on, would prevent their pufhing out 
roots) having loofened the earth round 
the plant, and, if need be, raifed it with 
frefh mould, that it may be level with 
the moot intended to be laid, left by the 
ground being too low, by forcing down 
the fhoot it fhould be fplit off; then make 
a hollow place in the earth, juft where 
the fhoot is to come, and bend the 
fhoot gently into the earth, obferving 
to keep the top as upright as poffible, 
that the flit may be open ; and being 
provided with forked flicks for that 
purpofe, thruft one of them into the 
ground, fo that the forked part may 
take hold of the layer, to keep it down 
in its proper place ; then gently cover 
the fhank of the layer with the fame 
fort of earth, giving it a gentle water- 
ing to fettle the earth about it, obferv- 
ing to repeat the fame as often as is 
neceffary to promote their rooting. 
In about five or fix weeks after this, 
the layers will have taken root fufficient 
to be tranfplanted ; then thofe which 
are intended for pots fhould be each 
planted in aftparate fmall pot, placing 
them in the fhadeuntil they have taken 
Frefh root ;, after which they may be 
removed into a more open fituation, 
where they may remain till the middle 
of November (if the weather conti- 
nues fo long good,) when the pots 
fhould be put under a common frame, 
where they may enjoy the open air at 
all times when the air is mild, but 
fkreened from hard rains,fnc\v and froft. 
Where there is conveniency, the 
layers, which are intended for the 
common borders, may be planted upon 
a bed at about three inches afunder 
each way, and in winter covered with 
a frame, or elfe arched over with hoops, 
and in bad weather covered with mats, 
which will fecure them till fpring, 
when they may be taken up with balls 
of earth, and planted where they arc 
defigned to flower. 



Thofe layers which were planted irt 
fmall pots in the autumn, fhould in 
the fpring be turned out of thofe pots, 
preferving the earth to their roots, 
paring off the outfide with the matted 
roots, and put into the pots they are 
defigned to remain in for good. The 
belt compoft for thefe flowers is as 
follows : 

Make choice of fome good upland 
pafture, or a common that is of an 
hazel earth, or light fandy loam ; dig 
from the furface of this about eight 
inches deep, taking all the turf with 
it ; let this be laid in a heap to rot and 
mellow for one year, turning it once 
a month that it may fweeten ; then mix 
about a third part of rotten neatsdung, 
or for want of that fome rotten dung 
from a Cucumber or Melon bed ; let 
this be well mixed together, and if 
you can get it time enough before-hand, 
let them lie mixed fix or eight months 
before it is ufed, turning it feveral 
tines, the better to incorporate their 
parts. But as the layers which are 
made from fuch roots as have been 
forced to flower the lame year, do fel- 
dom fucceed fo well the next, it will 
be a good method to plant two or three 
layers of each of the beft kinds in a bed 
of frefh earth not over dunged ; which 
plants fhould only be fuffered to fhew 
their flowers, that their colours may 
be known to be perfedt in their kind ; 
and when fatisfied in that particular, 
the flowers fhould be cut off the Items, 
and not fuffered to fpend the roots in 
blowing, by which means the layers 
will be ftrengthened. And from fome 
of the beft plants of thefe, the layers 
fhould be taken for the next year's 
blowing, always obferving to have a 
fucceffion of them yeaily, by which 
means every year a fine bloom of thefe 
flowers may be expected, fuppofing 
the feafon favourable. When the plants 
which are intended to flower, are put 
into the larger pots in the fi ring, they 
fhould be placed in a fituation where 
they may be defended from the north 
wind, obferving to give them gentle 
waterings as the feafon may require. 

Here they may remain till the mid- 
dle or latter end of April, when a ftage 
of boards fhould be made to fet the 
pots upon, which fhould be fo ordered 
as to have little cifterns of water round 
each peft, to prevent the infecls from 
getting to the flowers in their bloom ; 
which, 



CAR 



CAR. 



which, if they are differed to do, they 
will deftroy all the flowers in a fliort 
time ; the chief and moft mifchievous 
infeft in this cafe is the earwig, which 
will gnaw off all the lower parts of 
the petals of the flowers (which are 
very fweet) and thereby caufe the whole 
flower to fall to pieces ; but fince the 
making one of thefe ftages is fomewhat 
expensive, and not very eafy to be un- 
derftood by fuch as have not feen them, 
we (hall defcribe a ve.y fimple one, 
which has been ufed for feveral years, 
and anfwers the purpofe full as well 
as the belt and molt expenfive one can 
do. Firft, prepare fome common fiat 
pans about two feet over, and thiee 
inches deep, place thefe two and two 
oppoflte to each other, at about two 
feet diftance, and at every eight feet 
in length. In each of thefe turn a 
flower-pot upfide down, then lay a 
piece of flat timber, about two feet 
and a half long, and three inches thick, 
crofs from pot to pot, the whole length 
of the ftage 5 then lay the planks 
lengthways upon thefe timbers, which 
will hold two rows of the fize for thefe 
pots which are proper for the Carna- 
tions j and when you have fet the pots 
upon the ftage, fill the flat pans with 
water, always obferving as it decreafes 
in the pans, toreplenifh it, which will 
effectually guard your flowers againlt 
infects, for they do not care to fwim 
over water ; fo that if by this, or any 
other contrivance, the paffage from the 
ground to the ft3ge on which the pots 
are placed, is defended by a furface of 
water four or five inches broad, and 
as much in depth, thefe vermin will 
be effectually prevented from getting 
to the flowers. 

This ftage fhould be plzced in a fitu- 
ation open to the fouth-eaft, but de- 
fended from the weft winds, to which 
thefe ftages mu:l not be expofed, left 
the pots fhould be blown down by the 
violence of that wind, which is often 
very troublefome at the feafon when 
the flowers blow ; indeed they fhould 
be defended by trees at fome diftance, 
from the winds of every point; but 
thefe trees fhould not be too near the 
ftage, nor by any means place them 
near walls, or tall buildings, for in 
fuch fituations the ftems of the flow- 
ers will draw up too weak. About 
the middle of April the layers will be- 
gin to fhoot up for flower, therefore 



there fhoald be provided fome <ka{ 
flicks, about four feet and a half long, 
which fhould be- thicker towards tire 
bottom, and planed off taper at the 
top ; thefe fticks fhould be carefully 
ftuck into the pots as near as pcflibte 
to the plant, without injuring it; then 
with a flender piece of bafs mar, faftera 
the ftalk of the flower to the ftick to 
prevent its being broken; this muft 
be often repeated as the ftalk advances 
in height, and ail the fide ftalks mult 
be pulled off as they are produced, ne- 
ver letting mote than two ftalks re- 
main upon one root, nor above one, if 
they are intended to blow exceeding 
large. Towards the beginning of June 
the flowers will moft of .them have 
attained their height, and their peds 
will begin to fwell, and about the end 
fome of the earlieft begin to open on 
one fide ; therefore the pods muft be 
opened in two other places, at equal 
angles ; this muft be done as foon as 
the pod breaks, otherwife the flower 
will run out on one fide, and be in a 
fliort time paft recovering, fo as to 
make a complete flower. In a few 
days after the flowers begin to open, 
they muft be covered with glafles 
which are made for that purpofe, in 
the following manner : 

Upon the top of the glafs, exactly 
in the center, is a tin collar or focket, 
about three-fourths of an inch fquare, 
for the flower-ftick to come through ; 
to this focket are foldered eight flips of 
lead at equal diftances, which are about 
fix inches and a half long, and fpre^d 
open at the bottom about four inches 
afunder; into thefe nips of lead are 
faflened flips of glafs, cut according 
to the diftances of the lead, which, 
when they are fixed in, are bordered 
round the bottom with another flip of 
lead quite round, fo that the glafs hath 
eight angles, with the focket in the 
middle, and ipread open at the bottom 
about eleven inches wide. 

When the flowers are open enough 
to be covered with thefe glafles. a hole 
muft be made with an awl through 
the flower-ftick, exactly to the height 
of the under part of the pod, through 
which fhould be put a piece of fmaft 
wire about fix inches long, making a 
ring at one end of the wire to ccntal-i 
the pod, into which ring fhould the 
ftem of the flower be fixed, taking off 
all the tying* of bafs ; and the ftem of 

the 



Q A R 

the flower mud be placed fo far from 
the ftick, as may give convenient room 
for the flower to expand without pref- 
fing againfl it; to which diftance it 
may be fixed, turning the wire fo as 
not to draw back through the hole ; 
then make another hole through the 
ftick, at a convenient diftance above 
theflower, through which (hould be put 
a piece of wire an inch and a half long, 
to fupportthe glafies from Aiding down 
upon the flowers, obferving that the 
glafies are not placed fo high as to ad- 
mit the fun and rain under them to 
the flowers, nor fo low as to fcorch 
their leaves with the heat. At this 
time alfo, or a few days after, fhould 
be cut fome # ftiff paper, cards, or fome 
fuch thing, into collars about four 
inches over, and exactly round, cut- 
ting a hole in the middle of it about 
three-fourths of an inch diameter, 
for the bottom of the flower to be let 
through ; then place thefe collars about 
them, to fupport the petals of the 
flower from hanging down ; this col- 
lar fhould be placed within-fide the 
calyx of the flower, and fhould be 
fupported thereby. If, as the flowers 
blow, one fide comes out fafter than 
the other, the pots fhould be turned 
about, to fhift the other fide towards 
the fun; and, if the weather proves 
very hot, the glalTes fhould be (haded 
in the heat of the day with Cabbage- 
leaves, &c. to prevent their being 
fcorched, or forced out too foon ; and, 
when the middle pod begins to rife, 
the calyx mult be pulled out with a 
pair of nippers made for that purpofe ; 
but this fhould not be done too foon, 
left the middle part of the flower 
fhould advance too high above the fides, 
which will greatly diminifh the beauty 
of it. And when the flowers are fully 
blown, if they are cut off, a frefti 
collar of ftiff paper fhould be put on, 
which mould be cut exactly to the fize 
of the flower, that it may fupport the 
petals to their full width, but not to 
be feen wider than the flower in any 
part ; when this is put on, the wideit 
leaves fliould be fpread out, to form 
the outfide of the flower, which al- 
though they fhould happen to be in 
the middle (as is often the cafe) yet by 
removing the other leaves they may be 
drawn down, and fo the next longeft 
leaves upon them again, that the whole 
flower may appear equally globular 



CAR 

without any hollow parts. In the do« 
ing of this, fome florifts are fo curious 
as to render an indifferent flower very 
handfome ; and on this depends, in a 
great meafure, the fkill of the artift to 
produce large fine flowers. 

The directions here given are chiefly 
for the management of thofe large 
Carnations, which may require the 
greateft lkill of the florifts to have 
them in perfection ; but of late years 
thefe have not been fo much in eiteemv 
as formerly, and thofe flowers which 
do not break their pods have now the 
preference. Thefe are generally planted 
in pots, and treated in the fame way 
as the large flowers, but do not re- 
quire fo much trouble to blow them ; 
all that is neceflary to be done for thefe, 
is to fallen their ftems up to flower- 
fticks to prevent their being broken, 
and to take off the pods which pro- 
ceed from the fide of the (talks, leav- 
ing only the top bud to flower, if they 
are intended to be large and fair ; and 
when the flowers begin to open, if 
they are fkreened from the fun in the 
heat of the day, and alfo from wet, 
they will continue much longer in 
beauty. 

The layers which are planted in the 
full ground, generally produce feeds 
better than thofe in pots ; therefore 
whoever propofes to raife a fupply of 
new flowers from feeds, muft always 
obferve to fave the beft of their feed- 
ling flowers for this purpofe ; for it is 
well known, that after any of thefe 
flowers have been a few years propa- 
gated by layers, they become barren, 
and do not feed; which is alfo the cafe 
with many other plants which are pro- 
pagated by flips, layers, or cuttings; 
fo that the young plants which have 
been newly obtained from feed, are al- 
ways the moft productive of feeds. 

We (hall next proceed to the culture 
of that fpecies, which is commonly 
known by the title of Sweet William j 
of this there are a great variety of 
different colours which are (ingle, and 
three with double flowers ; fome of 
thefe have narrow leaves, which were 
formerly titled Sweet Johns, but of 
late that diftinctien has not been made, 
becaufe they are found to vary when 
raifed from feeds. 

Some of the Angle flowers have very 
rich colours, which frequently vary in 
thofe of the fame bunch ; there are 
««hsr», 



CAR 



CAR 



ethers with fine variegated flowers, 
and others vvhofe middles are of a foft 
red. bordered with white, which are 
called Painted Ladies; but where per- 
sons are defirous to preferve any of 
thefe varieties in perfection, the befl 
flowers of each fhould be particularly 
marked, and no other permitted to 
ftand near them, left the larina fhould 
impregnate them, which would caufe 
them to vary. 

That which is called the Painted 
Lady Sweet William, is a very beau- 
tiful variety ; the ftalks of this do not 
rife fo high as molt of the other ; the 
bunches of flowers are larger, and pro- 
duced more in the form of an umbel, 
the flowers ftanding equal in height, 
make a better appearance; of this va- 
riety there have been fome lately railed 
with double flowers, having many 
beautiful ftripes, but are found very 
apt to degenerate; there are others 
whofe ftalks rife three feet high, 
and the flowers are of a very deep red 
or fcarlet colour. Thefe all flower at 
the fame time with the Carnations, 
which renders them lefs valuable, be- 
caufe they have no fcent. 

The Angle kinds of thefe flowers 
are generally propagated by feeds, 
which muft be fown the beginning of 
April in a bed of light earth, and in 
June they will be fit to tranfplant out, 
at which time muft be prepared fome 
beds ready for them ; they fhould be 
planted fix inches diftant every way: 
In thefe beds they may remain till Mi 
chaelmas, at which time they may be 
tranfplanted into the borders of the 
pleafu re garden. Thefe will flower 
the next year in June, and perfect their 
feeds in Auguft, which you fhould 
fave from the beft coloured flowers 
for a fupply. 

The three forts with double flowers, 
are, i. The broad-leaved fort, which 
hath very double flowers, of a deep 
purple colour inclining to blue, which 
burits in pods, fo that it is not fo 
much efteemed as the others, and there- 
fore has been lefs regarded, and is now 
almoft totally banifhed the gardens of 
the curious. 2. The Double Rofe 
Sweet William, whofe flowers are of 
a fine deep Rofe-colour, and fmell 
fweet ; this is much valued for the 
beauty and fweetnefs of its flowers ■; 
the empalement (or pods) of thefe 
flowers never burft, fo the flowers re- 



main with their petals fully expanded, 
and do not hang-down loofely as thofe 
of the i'ormer. 3. The Mule, or 
Fairchild's Sweet William ; it hath 
narrower leaves than either of the for- 
mer, and is of that variety called Sweet 
John ; this was faid to have been pro- 
duced from feeds of a Carnation, which 
had been impregnated by the farina of 
the Sweet William ; the flowers of 
this are of a brighter red colour than 
either of the former; their bunches 
are not quite fo large, but their flow- 
ers have an agreeable fcent. 

The double kinds are propagated by 
layers, as the Carnations, or by flips 
as Pinks ; they love a middling foil, 
not too light or tcoftiff, nor too much 
dunged, which very often occafions 
their rotting; thefe continue flowering 
for a long time, and are extremely 
beautiful ; but they are very fubje£ 
to canker and rot away, efpecially if 
planted in a foil over wet or too light. 
Thefe flowers when planted in pots, 
are very proper to adorn court-yards 
at the time they are in flower. 

The China Pink is generally efteemed 
an annual plant, becaufe the plants 
which are raifed from feeds fle-wer and 
produce ripe feeds the fame feafon, fa 
their roots are not often preferved; 
but where they are planted in a dry 
foil, they will continue two years, and 
the fecond year will produce a greater 
number of flowers than thefirft. Thers 
are a great variety of very rich colours 
in thefe flowers, which annually vary 
when raifed from feeds. The double 
flowers of this are moft efteemed, 
though the colours of the fingle are 
more diftincT: and beautiful ; for the 
multiplicity of petals in the double 
flowers, in a great meafure, hide the 
deepfhades which are toward the lower 
part of the petals. 

Thefe plants are propagated by 
feeds, which fhould be fown upon a 
gentle hot-bed about the beginning of 
April ; this moderate heat is only in- 
tended to forward the vegetation of 
the feeds, therefore when the plants 
come up, they muft have a large fliare 
of air admitted to them, to prevent 
their drawing up weak ; and as foon 
as the weather will permit, they muft 
beexpofed to the open aii ; in about 
a month after, the plants will be fit 
to remove, when they fhould be care- 
fully taken up with good roots, and 
planted 



CAR 



planted in a bed of rich earth at about 
three inches afunder, being careful to 
(bade them from the fun till they have 
taken new root. The farther care is 
to keep them clean from weeds till the 
end of May, at which time they may 
be tranfplanted to the places where they 
aie defined to remain for flowering, 
when they may be taken up with large 
bath of earth to their roots, fo as 
ifcarcely to feel their removal, especially 
if it happens to rain at that time. 

As thefe plants do not grow large, 
fowhen they are planted fingly in the 
borders of the fbwer-garden, they do 
not make fo fine an appearance, as 
where they are planted by themfelves 
, or if they are planted in fmail 
clumps of fix or eight roots in each, 
where the flowers being of different co- 
lours fet eff each other to advantage. 

.'hofe who are curious in thefe flow- 
ers, take particular care in laving their 
feeds, for they never permit any iingle 
Sowers to ftand among their double, 
but pull them up as foon as they mew 
their flowers, and a!fo draw out ail 
tlto/e which are not of lively good co- 
lours ; where this is ohferved, the flow- 
ers may-be kept in great perfeclion j 
but where perfons have trufty friends, 
who live at fome diftance, with whom 
they can exchange feeds once in two 
or three years, it is much better fo to 
do than to continue fowing feeds in 
the fame place many years in fucceffion, 
and this holds true in molt forts of 
feeds; but the great difficulty -is to 
meet with an honelt pcrfon of equal 
{kill, who will be as careful in the 
ehoke of his plants for feed as if he 
was to fow them himlelf. 

CARLOCK. See Charlock. 

CAROB. SeeBEAN-TuEE. 

C ARPOBALSAM. [Carpobalfantum] 
This is the fruit of the tree that yields 
the balm of Gilead; it is about the 
tire of a pea, of a whitifh colour, in- 
elofed in a dark brown wrinkled bark. 
This fruit, when in perfection, has a 
pleafant warm glowing tafte, and a 
inj fmell, refembling that of the 
:n itfelf. It is very rarely 
in the lhops, and fuchaswe now 
and then do meet with, has almoft en- 
tirely loft its I'mell and tafte. It is of 
no other ufe in this country than as an 
ingredient in the mithridate and theri- 
aca, in both which the college direfls 
tubebs as a fubftitute to it. 



CARRIAGE. This is a term ufed 
in husbandry, denoting a kind of a 
furrow in the ground for the convey- 
ance of water to overflow or drown 
the ground : It is diftinguifhed into 
two forts ; the main carriage, which 
mud be fo cut that an allowance be 
made for a convenient defcent, to give 
the water a fair and plaufible current 
all along, and whofe mouth muft be 
of breadth rather than depth, fuffictent 
to receive the whole ftream defired or 
intended, and when part of the water 
comes to be ufed, it muft be narrower 
gradually, that the water may prefs 
into the leiTer carriages, which at every 
rifing ground or other convenient dif- 
tance, mult be cut fmall and tapering, 
proportionable to the diftance and 
quantity of land or water you have, 
and are to be as (hallow as may be, 
and as many in number as may be ; for 
though it feems to wafte much land, 
by cutting fo much turf, yet it proves 
not fo in the end ; for the more nim- 
bly the water runs over the grafs, fo 
much the better is the improvement, 
which is attained by making many 
and fhallow carriages. i^ta-Jz/^l^u. 
CARROT. [Daucvs.] This is a 
root as fit for the field as the garden, 
requiring very little culture, and pro- 
ducing a very great profit to the planter. 
It is hardy enough to ftand all the 
attacks of cold, and other natural 
accidents. And though in fome parts 
of the kingdom only, hitherto kept in 
fields, ' s very worthy to be introduced 
in the Hufbandman's Catalogue every 
where, and is indeed, for many rea- 
fens, fitter for the field than the garden. 
The root of the carrot is long and 
thick, varying in colour from the deep- 
ell orange to the paleft ftraw, and 
having every tinge of red or yellow. 
The leaves are large, and divided very 
beautifully into a multitude of minute 
parts. The ftalk, when the carrot 
gets to flowering, rifes in the midft of 
the leaves, and is four feet high. The 
leaves ftand irregularly on it, and are 
like thofe at the root, only fmaller and 
paler. The flowers are little and 
white, they ftand in a large round hol- 
low tuft at the tops of the branches, 
and are followed by feeds that are nu- 
merous, fmall, pale-coloured, light, and 
rough. 

Tin's is the general defcription of the 
carrot, which from its flowers grow- 
ing 



CAR 



CAR 



ing In a tuft, like an umbrella, though 
lefs fo than many others, is one of 
thofe called by auchors umbelliferous 
plants. 

We have obferved that there is a 
variety of colour in the roots of the 
carrot, from the deepeft orange to the 
paleft ftraw, or fulphur colour : the 
gardeners have hence, according to 
their cuftom, made what they call 
three principal kinds of carrot, taking 
the three moft diftincl degrees of co- 
lour, the deepeft, the middle, and the 
paleft. Thefe they call, i. The dark 
red carrot. 2. The orange carrot. And, 
3, The white carrot. The firft and 
laft of thefe terms are fomewhat im- 
proper, the firft kind being only a very 
deep orange, and the other only a very 
pale yellow. 

The firft is the moft generally e- 
fteemed : people who are critical in 
thefe matters, ufually preferring the 
deepeft coloured carrots ; the white 
kind is more common in France and 
Italy than here; and though cuftom 
give the preference, the contrary way 
is the fweeteft and fineft flavoured of 
them all. 

This however is not to influence 
the farmer in his choice. He is to 
cultivate not that which is beft, but 
what people think fo ; and therefore 
he is to chufe the deep red, commonly 
called the Sandwich carrot. 

The firft thing a farmer muft do 
who intends to plant carrots, muft be 
to examine whether he have proper 
ground, for without this there is no 
fucceeding : thofe plants whofe profit- 
able part is the leaf or ear, may be 
raifej on very different foils, by the 
affiftance of manure; but thofe which 
depend on the root can never come to 
any thing, when the ground is not 
proper in its own nature. 

Three things are requifite in land 
for carrots. Jt muft be deep, rich, 
and dry. Thefe do not fo often con- 
cur as the farmer might be inclined to 
wifh. Deep and dry is common, be- 
caufe all fandy foils have it ; and there- 
fore in general they are fit for carrots ; 
but to be rich withal is the compleat- 
ingof the bufinefs : the other will give 
room to penetrate and warmth to che- 
rifh, but when nourifhment in abun- 
dance is joined with thefe, in the rich- 
nefs of tire land, 'tis then the ground 
is compleatly proper. 



For this reafon a fine rich deep gar'= 
den mould, where there is not too 
much moifture, is very properfor them; 
but too much moifture is the common 
fault of this kind of ground. The beft 
foil for carrots is, a dry earth, in which 
there is a greal deal of fand, a good 
quantity of mellow earth, and a very 
little or no clay. In Surry and Suflex 
there are vaft tracts of ground left in a 
manner defert, which would yield a 
great profit from carrots. It is in 
thefe inftances we fee the vaft advan- 
tages that would arife from making 
the knowledge of hufbandry univerfal j 
the putting into the thoughts of far- 
mers in one place, what is the profit- 
able practice of another on like foils. 
We hope this work will be inftrumen- 
tal to that excellent purpofe. 

The foil being chofen, the prepara- 
tion of it naturally confifts in two ar- 
ticles, the enriching it by manure, and 
the breaking it deep by tillage. All 
land for this purpofe will anfwer ths 
better, the more care is taken of it in 
this refpect ; and we fhall fhew the 
manner of doing it ; for otherwife all 
the expence may be worfe for the crop, 
than if the land had been left in its 
natural condition. 

The times of thefe preparations arc 
to be very different ; as to the plowing 
and dividing of the land, that mould 
be done juft before the feed is fown j 
but the manure muft be laid on a year 
before. This will occafion no lofs of 
time with the judicious farmer, for 
he may have a previous crop. After 
this the land being plowed up for car- 
rots, will be in the beft poffible condi- 
tion to fuppoi t them. 

The reafon of this management of 
the dung is very plain : the carrot will 
have great advantage from the rich- 
nefs it gives the ground, for the richer 
that is the larger they will be ; but then 
frefh dung always fubjecls the land to 
be full of worms ; and this is what 
fhould be feared more than almoft any 
other accident, in a carrot plantation, 
for thefe roots are a very lufcious food 
for thofe infecls; and when wcrm- 
eaten they are worth little. 

The ground requires to be dug very 
deep for carrots, becaufe their whole 
value is their length and firaitnefs, 
which they will never attain if they 
have not a free paffage down icr their 
roots ; but tofave the expence of dig- 

B b ging, 



CAR 



CAR 



.glng, the land fliould be plowed with 
a very narrow furrow and vtry deep, 
which work none but a good plow- 
man can perform ; and he ought not to 
plow more than an acre in three days. 
The farmer is to make it his firft 
care, when he thinks of fowing car- 
rots, to procure good feed : this he 
will know by its fweet fmell, its pale 
colour, and its roughnefs •. if it be 
mufty or broken, 'tis damaged or old, 
and in either cafe will greatly difap- 
point him. 

The feed being chofen, he is to get 
to work upon his ground in the be- 
ginning of March. Gardeners fow 
carrots in a manner the year round, 
that they may have crops of young 
ones one under another; but this the 
farmer has nothing to do with. He 
fows them for two confiderations, 
which are, to have large roots for mar- 
ket, and to get good feeds from pro- 
per parts of his ground, which is alfo 
very abundantly produced, and yields 
a very large price. 

The beginning of March therefore 
Is the time when he is to prepare by 
plowing. His own reafon will diredt 
him never to chufe a ftony foil for this 
root ; but he muft have a couple of 
women or boys to follow the plow, 
to pick up any loofe ftone or other 
hard matter that may chance to be 
turned up. 

When the ground is thus deeply cut 
up and picked, the harrows are to be 
fent in, and the furface is to be well 
levelled like the beft prepared border in 
a garden : this done it is ready for the 
fowing. When the feed is a material 
confideration the plants are to be kept 
farther diftant, and the drieft and 
warmeft foils ate bed for thispurpofe. 
There muft be a great deal of care 
in fowing carrot feed ; the feed muft 
be well rubbed in the hand to feparate 
it and make it fit for fowing, and a 
proper day muft be chofen, otherwife 
it will be impo,ffible to do itasitfhould 
be. The weather muft be ftill and 
calm, and the perfon who fows them 
muft go over all the ground carefully, 
with the feeds in his apron, and muft 
fpread them by hand a few at a time. 
As foon as ever the feed is upon the 
ground, let a good heavy roller be 
brought on, and the whole field well 
rolled over with it. This fettles the 
feeds in their places, and prevents the 



effect of the winds,which would fpread 
them irregularly fhould any rife before 
they are thus fixed down. 

The feed being in the ground, is to 
be left to nature for its (hooting, and 
as foon as it is up, and got to fome 
little height, the hand-hoers are to be 
fent into the field. They muft have 
orders to cut up all weeds, and thin 
the plants. The proper diftance at 
which they fhould be left, is about fe- 
ven inches from one another; and thus 
they are to ftand till they come to 
their perfection ; for the ground hav- 
ing been once well weeded in this man- 
ner, the carrots will grow fo vigoroufly, 
that their leaves meeting every where 
one with another, will overfpread the 
whole ground, and let no more grow 
between them. 

The carrots thus left to themfelves 
will grow to a very good fize by the 
end of Autumn, and they will thrive 
the better if quantities are pulled for 
market, from time to time, when/they 
are big enough to be faleable, not 
drawing thefe all in one place, but 
from thofeclufters where they happen 
to ftand thickeft. 

Toward the end of November the 
leaves of the carrots will begin to de- 
cay. The farmer will know this by 
their becoming yellowifh or reddilh; 
this is his notice for taking up the 
roots. The carrot like the potatoe 
fhould be taken up in the beginning 
of winter, and laid by in dry fand, in 
which manner they will always be 
kept ready for the market. 

The froft hurts carrots in the fame 
manner as potatoes, though not fo 
early or fo readily; therefore, as foon 
as that time of the year approaches, 
when they are to be expofed to the 
hazard, they muft be taken out of the 
ground and laid up in fand, which 
froft does not fo much affeCt as any o- 
ther earthy fubftance; and this muft 
be in a dry place, where they are de- 
fended from it in the beft manner. 

This is the whole management of 
the carrot, eafy and familiar in the 
greateft degree ; and the profit great 
and certain : there is always a market 
for this root, and the price is fuch that 
the profit, proportioned to the land 
and labour, is very great. 

The root is not the only r.rticle by 
which it is ferviceable to the far- 
mer, for there is a great deal of profit 
from 



CAR 



CAR 



from the feed. This is the produce of 
the fecond year, and for this purpofe 
the plants may be either left in the 
ground during the winter, or fet in a- 
gain in the beginning of fpring.' 

If the carrots for feed are planted, 
after being kept in fand during the 
winter, thelaigeit and fineft roots muft 
be chofen for that purpofe : in the o- 
ther method, of letting them ftand 
through the winter for that ufe, the 
moft vigorous plants mult be left. 
Thefe are to be kept at a due diftance, 
by feparating them in drawing the 
others. The drieft and warmefi, and 
beft fheltered part of the field, muft be 
chofen, and they muft be left at about 
a foot afunder ; in this condition they 
will gather ftrength during winter ; 
the Aalks will rife early the enfuing 
fummer; and the feeds will ripen in 
abundance about the middle of Au- 
guft. 

When thoroughly ripe the plants are 
to be cut down with an hook, and 
laid in the fun and air four days to dry, 
frequently turning them. After this 
they are to be thrafhed, or the feeds 
are to be beaten out of them ; and 
when feparate they are to be aired and 
dried feveral days before they are put 
up for fale ; they will thus be perfectly 
fine, fweet, and well coloured, and 
will bring a large price. 

The Flemings have long known the 
advantage of feeding their cattle with 
carrots ; though it is but of late years: 
that this root has been cultivated for 
that purpofe in the fields in England : 
nor does this ufeful and profitable 
practice extend even now to more than 
a few parts of this country ; though 
there is fcarce any root yet known, 
which is more heartening food for 
moft forts of animals, or which better 
merits the hufbandman's attention ; 
as one acre of carrots, well planted, 
will fatten a greater number of fheep, 
or bullocks, than three acres of tur- 
nips, and at the fame time their flefh 
will be firmer, and better tailed, Hor- 
fes are extremely fond of this food, 
and there is not any better for hogs. 
Thefe roots have alfo been of fuch ex- 
cellent fervice to deer, in parks, that 
when numbers of chefe valuable crea- 
tures have perifhed elfewhere, through 
want in very hard winters, when there 
has been an extreme fcarcity of their 
ufual food 3 thofe that have been fed 



with carrots have kept their flefh all 
the winter, and, upon the growth of 
the grafs in the fpring, have been fat 
early in the feafon. This is not an in- 
considerable advantage, in places where 
the grafs is generally backward in its 
growth. All winter crops turn to 
good account, and deferve the farmer's 
utmoft attention. 

Candy CARROT, [Daucus Cretkus.} 
This is an umbelliferous plant, grow- 
ing wild in the Levant, and warmer 
parts of Europe. The feeds have a 
warm biting tafte and aromatic fmell j 
they are carminative and diuretic, but 
prefent practice does not regard them. 
Deadly CARROT, [Thaf/ia.] This 
plant does not ill deferve its epithet; 
a fmall dofe operating with extreme 
violence both upwardsand downwards. 
It is an entire ftranger to the fhops, 
and met with only in the gardens of 
the curious. 

There are feveral fpecies, which 
are propagated by fowing their feeds 
on an open fpot of ground fo foon as 
they are ripe; in the fpring the plants 
fhould be hoed out to about a foot a- 
part each way, and be conftantly clear 
from weeds. 

CART, a vehicle mounted upon 
two wheels, and drawn by one or more 
horfes.- 

The chief difficulty in the conftruc- 
tion of wheel carriages, confifts in 
properly adapting the wheels and axle, 
which ought to be done in fuch a man- 
ner, that the carriage may move with • 
the leaft force poffible. 

For carrying dung on the land, and 
many other ufes in hufbandry, we 
would Arongly recommend Mr. Sharp's « 
Cart Rollers, a print of ivhich 
is given in the Farmer's Mag. vol. ii. 

Wild CARROT, [Daucus fyfoefm.] 
This is common an pafture grounds 
and fallow fields throughout England. 
The feeds poffefs the virtues of thofe 
of the daucus Cieticus, in an inferior de- 
gree; and have often fupplied their 
place in the fhops ; and been them- 
felves fupplied by the feeds of the gar- 
den carrot : thefe laft are, in warmtii 
and flavour, the weakeft of the three; 
the feeds of the Candy carrot are much 
the ftrongeft. 

CART-HOUSE, 1 An out-houfe 
CART-LODGE, J for fheltering 
carts, waggons, Sec. from the weather. 
Farmers fhould be very careful to 
B b z place 



CAS 



CAS 



place their waggons, carts, &c. under 
proper fhelter, when out of ufe, as they 
will !aft twice as long by this means, 
as they would if expofed in the yard 
to all weathers j for as they are thus 
fometimes wet, and fometimes dry, 
they foon rot, and become unfit for 
tife. 

CART or PLOUGH-HORSE. In 
the choice of an horfe for either of 
thefe purpofes, which is the flow 
draught, choofe one that is of an or- 
dinary height, for horfes in the cart 
unequally forted never draw at eafe, 
but the tall hangs up the low horfe : 
He Should be big, large bod ; ed, and 
ftrong limbed, by nature rather in- 
clined to crave the whip, than to draw 
more than is needful ; and for this 
purpofe, mares are moft profitable, if 
you have cheap keeping for them ; for 
they will not only do the work, but 
alfo bring yearly increafe; but care 
tnuft be taken to have them well fore- 
handed ; that is, a good head, neck, 
breaft and ihoulders, but for the reft 
it is not fo regardful, cnly let her body 
be large, for the more room a foal has 
in her dam's belly, the fairer are his 
members ; and be fure never to put 
your draught horfes to the faddle, for 
that alters the pace, and huits them in 
their labour. 

CART-LADDER, a kind of rack, 
placed occasionally at the tail of a cart 
or waggon, to make it hold the larger 
quantity of hay, ftraw, &c. 

CART-ROLLER, a carton rollers. 
See Cart. 

CART-ROPE, a rope to tie a load 
on a waggon or cart. 

CASCARILLA, [Eleutheria.) A bark 
imported into Europe from one of the 
Bahama iflands called Elatherhi, in 
curled pieces, or rolled up into fhort 
quills, about an inch in width, pretty 
much refembling in appearance the 
Peruvian bark, but of a paler brown 
colour on the infide, lefs compact, and 
more friable. Its tafle is bitterer, yet 
lefs difagreeable, and lefs rough than 
that of the "Peruvian bark; with a 
confiderable greater fhare of aromatic 
pungency and heat : the thin outward 
ikin, which is of a whitifh colour, has 
no tafte. It is eafily inflammable, and 
yields whilft. burning a very fragrant 
fmell: this peculiar property diftin- 
guifhes the eleutheria frcm all other 
known barks. 



StifTerus was the nrft that employed 
the cortex eleutheria as a medicine, in 
Europe ; he relates (in his Ail. laborat. 
chym. published in the year 1693) that 
he received this aromatic bark from 
England ; and that fome time after, 
it was fold at Brunfwick for Peruvian 
bark: that a tincture of it in alcalized 
vinous fpirits, or dulcified alcaline 
ones, proved carminative and diuretic, 
and did confiderable fervice in arthri- 
tic, fcorbutic and calculous cafes ; and 
that if taken immediately after meals, 
it affected the head a little. Eleutheria 
was foon after employed by Apinus in 
an epidemic fever which raged in fome 
parts of Norway in 1694 and 1695 : 
this difeafe, which at firit had the ap- 
pearance of an ordinary intermittent, 
at length was accompanied with pe- 
techial fpots. The common alexi- 
pharmacs and fudorifics were found 
ineffectual e but the powder or ex- 
tract of this bark joined with them, 
proved fuccefsful, even after petechise 
had come forth: dyfenteries, fucceed- 
ing the fever, were removed by the 
fame medicine. During the ufe of the 
eleutheria, the patient generally fweat- 
ed plentifully, without lofs of ltrength, 
or other inconvenience : the belly was 
likewife kept open j thofe who did not 
fweat, had three or four ftools a day : 
where the menftrual or haemorrhoidal 
fluxes were fuppreffed at the begin- 
ning of the diforder, they generally, 
upon the ufe of this medicine, re- 
appeared. Among the Germans, the 
eleutheria is at prefent in very great 
efteem, and frequently exhibited a- 
gainft common intermittents, in pre- 
ference to the Peruvian bark, as being 
lefs fubject to fome inconveniencies 
which the latter, on account of its 
greater aftringency, is apt to occafion , 
it is alfo given, with good fuccefs, in 
flatulent colics, internal haemorrhagies, 
dyfenteries, the diarrhceae of acute fe- 
vers, and other like diforders. The 
gentlemen of the French academy 
found this bark of excellent fervice in 
an epidemic dyfentery in the year 
1719; in which ipecacoanha proved 
ineffectual : Mr. Boulduc obferved, 
that this lafl left a lownefs, and weak- 
nefs of ftomach, which continued for 
a long time, whilfl eleutheria foon 
raifed the ltrength, and promoted ap- 
petite. From the experience which 
we have cuifclves had of this bark, we 

aje 



CAS 



CAS 



are apt to think, that it deferves to be 
more regarded than it is at prefent. 

CASE-WEED, [Ear/a Pafiris.] See 
Shepherd's Purse. 

CASHEWNUT, [Acajou.] See A- 

NACARDIUM. 

CASSADA, or Cassava, [Jatro- 
pha.~\ A plant very common in the 
warmer parts of America, where the 
roots are prepared for food. The 
juice which is poifonous is prefTed out, 
and it is made up into cakes or pud- 
dings. 

CASSIA, [Caffia.] Baflard Sena. 
The forts are, ift. American Caffia 
with roundifh-pointed leaves. 2d. 
Stinking American Caffia with oblong 
fmooth leaves. 3d. Wild Ainking Caf- 
fia with winged pods, called in the 
Weft Indies French Guava. 4th. Caf- 
fia from Maryland, with blunt leaves, 
and a creeping root. 5th. Narrow- 
leaved Caffia of the Bahama iflands, 
with a reflexed cup to the flower. 6th. 
Barbadoes CaiTia, with a reflexed cup, 
and pointed leaves. 7th. Stinking 
American Caffia with blunt leaves. 
8th. American Caffia with fmooth 
pods. 9th. Purging Caffia, or Pud- 
ding-pipe-tree. 

Thefe Caffia's are all propagated by 
feeds, which muft be fown in a hot- 
bed in February, and afterwards tranf- 
planted into pots, which muft be 
plunged into another hot-bed, and 
muft be kept forward, by removing 
them from one hot-bed to another (as 
was directed for the Amaranths.) Nor 
mould thefe plants be ever expofed to 
the open air, if we intend to fee them 
flower; they muft therefore be kept 
in a warm ftoye in winter-,, .and be 
carefully managed. Many of thefe 
plants vvill flower the fecond year, and 
fome of them produce ripe feeds with 
us ; nay, fometimes, many of them 
will flower the firft year, if they were 
fown very early, as the fifth, fixth, 
feventh, and eighth forts frequently do ; 
but then they are more apt to decay in 
winter, than thofe that do not flower : 
the fourtli fort will endure the fevereft 
cold of the winter in the open ground, 
and increafe plentifully by the root : 
this produces flowers in the autumn ; 
but our fummers are not warm enough 
to ripen their feeds. The ninth fort 
grows to be a very large tree, not only 
in Alexandria, but alfo in the Weft- 
Indies: this is what produces the 



purging Caffia of the fhops, and may 
be raifed by fowing (frefh feeds taken 
out of the pulp) in a hot-bed in the 
fpring of the year, and muft be ma- 
naged as the other forts : this will 
giow with us to be a handfome fhiub, 
but muft be kept in a warm ftove, o- 
therwife it will not endure through the 
winter. All thefe Caffia's love a light 
fandy foil, and in warm weather muft 
be frequently watered. The third fort 
will grow to a great height in one fea- 
fon, if it be forwarded in hot-beds; 
but it is with much difficulty preferved 
the winter through. 

CASSIA, [Caffia Lbnea.] An Indian 
tree called by Breynius arbor canelllfera 
Indica, cortice acerrlmo njifcido feu mucila- 
gir.ofo, qui caffia llgnea off.c'warum . This 
bark, in appearance and aromatic fla- 
vour approaches to cinnamon ; from 
which it is eafily diftinguifhable by its 
remarkable vifcidity : chewed, it feems 
to diflblve in the mouth into a flimy 
fubftance ; boiled in water, it gives 
out a ftrong mucilage, the aromatic 
part exhaling ; the water obtained by 
diflillation has an unpleafant fin ell, 
fomewhat of the empyreumatic kind ; 
neverthelefs the diftilled oil proves 
nearly the fame quality with that of 
cinnamon. Caffia pofTefTes the aroma- 
tic virtues of cinnamon ; but in an 
inferior degree ; and its effects are lefs 
durable. Its glutinous quality renders 
it ufeful in fome cafes where Ample 
aromatics are lefs proper. 

CASSIDONY, [Stteckas.] French, 
lavender, Stcechas, orStickadore. This 
is a fhrubby plant, confiderably fmaller 
than common lavender : the flowery 
heads are brought from Italy and the 
fouthern parts of France ; they are 
very apt to grow mouldy in the paf- 
fage, and even when they efcape this 
inconvenience, are generally much in- 
ferior to thofe raifed in our gaidens. 
Thebeft ftechas which we receive from 
abroad, has no great fmell or talte ; 
Pomet affirms that fuch as the fhops 
of Paris are fupplied with, is entirely 
deftitute of both : whilft that of our 
own growth, either whilft frefh or 
when carefully dried, has a very fra- 
grant fmell, and a warm, aromatic, 
bitterifh,fubacrid tafte; diflilled with 
water, it yields a confiderable quantity 
of a fragrant eflential oil ; to rectified 
fpirit it imparts a ftrong tincture, 
which infpiffated proves an elegant a- 
romatic 



CAT 



CAT 



romatic extract. This aromatic plant 
is rarely met with in prefcription j 
the only officinal compositions which 
■it is admitted into are the mithridate 
and theriaca. 

There is another fort of flechas, 
which on account of the beauty and 
durability of its flowers has of late 
years had a place in our gardens, and 
whofe aromatic qualities render it wor- 
thy of one in the fhops. This is the 
golden ftechas, goldilocks, or golden 
caflidony : its flowers ftand in umbels 
on the tops of the branches ; they are 
of a deep fhining yellow colour, which 
they retain in perfection for many 
years ; their fmell is fragrant and a- 
greeable, approaching to that of nut- 
megs ; their tafle warm, bitterifh, and 
pungent; they impart their flavour to 
water in diftillation, and by infufion 
to rectified fpirit. 

They may be propagated by feeds 
fown in March, or by planting flips or 
cuttings in the fpring. 

Mountain CASSIDONY, [Gnapha- 
lium.~] Goldilocks, yellow Caflidony. 
See Cassidony. 

Gtlden CASSIDONY. See Cassi- 
dony. 

CASSIOBERRY BUSH, [Cajfine.'] 
A tree, native of Carolina, from whence 
the feeds are brought to England. 

CAST, a flight of birds, infects, 
&c. Thus a caft of bees, fignifies a 
fwarm or flight of bees. 

CASUMUNAR, this is a tuberous 
root, an inch or more in thicknefs, 
m?.rked on the furface with circles or 
joints likegalangal, of a brownifli or 
afh colour on the outfide, and a dufky 
yellowifli within : it is brought from the 
Eafl Indies, cut into tranfverfe flices; 
what kind of plant it produces, is not 
known. Cafumunar has a warm bit- 
terifh tafte, and an aromatic fmell 
fomewhat refembling that of ginger. 
It lias been celebrated in hyfleric cafes, 
epilepfies, palfies, lofs of memory, and 
other diforders : the prefent practice 
fometimes employs it as a ftomachic 
and carminative. 

CATCH-FLY, [Lychnis.] A beau- 
tiful flower, which may be propagated 
by feeds or flips. 

The double flowering fort of catch- 
fly was accidentally obtained from the 
feeds of the finale; and has not been 
known above forty years in the Eng- 
lifh gardens. As this fort never pro- 



duces feeds, fo it can only be propa- 
gated by parting and flipping the roots ; 
the beft time for this is in autumn, at 
which time every flip will grow. If 
this be performed in September, the 
flips will have taken good roots before 
the froft, and will flower well the fol- 
lowing fummer; then if they are ex- 
pected to flower ftrong, the roots mufl 
not be divided into fmall flips, though 
for multiplying the plant, it is no mat- 
ter how fmall the flips are. Thefe 
fhould be planted on a border expofed 
to the morning fun, and fhaded when 
the fun is warm, till they have taken 
root. If the flips are planted in the 
beginning of September, they will be 
looted ftrong enough to plant in the 
borders of the flower-garden, by the 
middle or latter end of October. The 
roots of this fort multiply fo faft as to 
make it neceffary to transplant and 
part them every year ; for when they 
are fuffered to remain any longer, they 
are very apt to rot. It delights in a 
light moifl foil. 

It has the name of catch-fly, from a 
glutinous liquor, almoft as clammy as 
bird-lime, fweating out of the flalks 
under each pair of leaves ; fo that th« 
flies, which happen to light on thefe 
places, are faftened to the 'talk, where 
they die. 

tobets CATCH-FLY, a fpecies of 
Silene. 

CATERPILLARS, are of innume- 
rable kinds, like the beetles and their 
maggots. They are the young of the 
butterfly-fpecies, and are as various 
in their form,* fize and colours, as thofe 
winged parents from whom they fpring. 

The butterfly is directed by nature 
to lay her eggs upon fome particular 
plant • and there the caterpillars are 
hatched. This plant is to be their 
food, therefore the farmers and the 
gardeners crops fuffer molt becaufe 
they are well tafled : and the creature 
devours immoderately, and does vaft 
mifchief. 

After it has lived the appointed 
time in this flate, it fpins a web ; and 
in that waits the change into a but- 
terfly : thence it iflues, like the pa- 
rent animal, to lay the foundation 
of another brood. 

Trees fuffer as much as fmaller 
plants by thefe creatures ; they will 
eat up the whole quantity of their 
leaves fometimes in a very fhort time. 

In 



CAT 



CAT 



In the fields the pulfe-kind are mod 
fubjeft to them ; and it is very effen- 
tial to guard againftthem. 

In plantations of trees their nefts 
fhould be fought, after the leaves are 
fallen ; for many kinds of them breed 
in this manner in great numbers, the 
eggs remaining in the neft or bag all 
the winter, and hatching juft when 
the leaves come out in fpring. 

Thefe nefts are generally at the ex- 
tremities of the branches of young 
trees, and the beft method is to cut 
off the tip of the branch and deftroy 
them. 

In fields they have not this courfe of 
breeding, for what fuffer moft by them 
are the fummer crops. When the far- 
mer fees them in any number, or per- 
ceives by their havock that they are 
numerous enough to do him mifchief, 
his remedy is this : 

Melt fome pitch in an earthen pip- 
kin, and put it to fome flour of brim- 
ftone. Let it cool, and divide it into 
feveral lumps. 

Place fmall heaps of ftraw in diffe- 
rent parts of the field, and on each lay 
one of thefe lumps of the pitch and 
brimftone. Set fire to the ftraw, and 
the other ingredients will melt and 
burn among it ; and every caterpillar 
that is within the influence of the 
fmoak, will fall off and perifh. 

If once be not fufficient, the fame 
practice may be repeated ; and if the 
farmer be diligent, he need not fear 
fuccefs. The art is difpofing the heaps 
in fuch manner, that no part of the 
ground may be free from the fmoak. 

In gardens and plantations of any 
kind ufe the following method : 

Boil fome tobacco in urine, and add 
to it fome foap-lees ; fprinkle where 
the caterpillars are, and it will deftroy 
them. 

To prevent their numerous increafe 
on trees, gather ?them off in winter, 
taking away the prinkets which cleave 
to the branches, and burn them ; but 
if they get on cauliflowers or cabbages, 
take fome fait water, or ftrong brine, 
and water the plants with it, and it 
will kill the infects : the fame effect 
will be produced by taking fome of 
the caterpillars themfelves, bruifing 
them with garlick, and infufing the 
mixture in water ; or you may fmoak 
them with wifpsof dry ftraw inMarch, 
juft as the bud begins to open. 



m tne trees wee, ipnnKiing tne 
that the wind^nay blow it on 

ERPILLARTLANT, {Scoffl-"" 



In the fummer while they are yet 
young, when, either through the cold- 
nefs of the night, or fome humidity, 
they are affembled together on heaps, 
you may take and deftroy them ; or 
you may wafh your trees with water, 
in which wormwood, tobacco-ftalks, 
and coloquintida have been difiblvedj 
or take lime duft, when the wind is 
high, and the trees wet, fprinkling the 
duft, fo that tjje wine 
the trees. 

CATERPILL; 
aras.] There are feveral fpecies of 
this plant, all annual, and growing na- 
turally in the warm countries in Eu- 
rope. 

The plants are preferved in feveral 
curious gardens for their oddnefs more 
than for any great beauty : they are 
propagated by fowing their feeds upon 
a bed of light earth ; and when the 
plants are come up they muft be kept 
clean from weeds, and fhould be thin- 
ned fo as to leave them about ten in- 
ches or a foot afunder, becaufe their 
branches trail upon the ground ; and 
if they have not room they are apt to 
overbear each other. 

Thefe plants feldom thrive well if 
they are tranfplanted ; therefore the 
belt method is to put in three or four 
good feeds in each place where you 
would have the plants remain. When 
the plants come up there fhould be 
only one of the molt promifing left in 
each place, which fhould be constantly 
kept clear from weeds ; and when their 
pods are ripe, they fhould be gathered 
.and preferved in a dry place till the 
following fpring, to be fown. 

CATKYNS, an aggregate of fum- 
mits which are joined together in 
form of a rope or cat's-tail, and is 
the rhale flower of fuch trees as bear 
them, as Filberts, Walnuts, Birch, 
Willows, Firs, Pines, &c. 

CAT-MINT, [Ncpeta.] Called alfo 
Nep. Cat-mint (fo called from its 
being often deftroyed by that animal) 
is met with in our gardens, and fome- 
times growing wild in hedges and on 
dry banks. It is a moderately aro- 
matic plant, of a ftrong fmell, not ill 
refembling a mixture of mint and 
pennyroyal ; of the virtue of which it 
likewife participates. 

CAT's-FOOT, Ground Ivy. 

CATTLE, a general name for beafts 
of pafture, but generally confined to 
thole of the cow kind. 



>/r 



C E D 



C E 



CAVING, fmall and fliort firaws 
left in the caving ridder or fieve, ufed 
as chaff. 

CAVING Ridder, a coarfe kind of 
fieve, by which the thrafher feparates 
the corn and chaff from the fhort 
ftraws. 

CAYAN PEPPER, Capficum or 
Guinea Pepper. 

CEDAR, the fpecies are: ift. The 
Cedar of Libanus. sd^The red Vir- 
ginian Geforv^f^TlBBWiite-berried 
' Virginian Cedar, 4th. The Cedar of 
Bermudas. 5th. The Tree, or Swedifh 
Juniper. 

The cones of the Cedar of Libanus 
were formerly brought to Britain from 
the Levant ; but the Englifh trees have 
fince produced abundance, and thofe 
of a better quality than the foreign. 
They are more apt both to produce 
and ripen their cones in hard than mild 
winters. 

The way to get out the feeds, is by 
fplitting the cones through the centre 
with a fharp piece of iron length -ways, 
and picking' them out with your fin- 
gers, which may eafily be done, after 
expofing them for fome hours on the 
hearth before a warm fire. If the cones 
1 are two years old, they will emit their 
feeds more readily than thofe lately ga- 
thered, and the feeds equally good. 

The beft foil to raife thefe plants on, 
is rich old cow-pafture earth, which, 
if not naturally of a light quality, mix 
with a fourth or fifth part of fea-fand, 
or that from the fides of rivulets, 
well blended together for fome months 
before it is ufed. This tree is very 
hardy at three or four years old, nei- 
ther is it delicate from the beginning ; 
but at the fame time, it is abfolutely 
necefTary to give them abundant nou- 
rifhment at firft, in order to make fair 
and vigorous plants ; for if they once 
become dwarfifh, ftunted, orlofe their 
leading fhoot, no art will afterwards 
relfore them to a good figure : There- 
fore the raifing a number of plants, 
which any tolerable gardener may ea- 
fily do, is not the only thing required ; 
it is raifing them of a healthful come- 
ly figure, and this cannot be done 
without fkill and attention. In order 
toeffecl it, obfervethe following rules : 

Having prepared the foil as before 
mentioned, in a flickered fituation ex- 
pofed only to the morning fun, place 
an old hot-ted frame thereon, and put 



in' it the depth of feven or eight inches 
of this mould, in which fow the feeds 
the beginning of March, in fhallow 
drills made with your finger, a foot or 
fourteen inches afunder. About a 
fortnight after fowing, the weather 
being dry, give them a very gentle 
fprinkling of water every fecond even- 
ing while it continues fo. In about 
fix weeks the plants will appear above 
ground, when, if the nights are frofty, 
which is often the cafe at this feafon, 
let a mat be thrown over them in the 
evening, and taken off next morning 
or forenoon, when the fun difpels the 
froft. After this time, the weather be- 
ing mild and dry, the waterings muft, 
be regularly though gently continued ; 
and now it will be fafeft to do it in 
the mornings till the froft is over, af- 
ter which they will receive more bene- 
fit from it in the evenings, 

Thefe Cedars come up, and conti- 
nue the firft year, with remarkable tall 
and thin bodies, and with heavy tops, 
inclining to hang downwards: they 
have downright roots, with few fibres j 
and their roots penetrate lefs into the 
earth at firft than any plant, infomuch 
that great numbers of them have been 
laid flat, and beat entirely out of the 
ground with the rains, even in the 
fummer months. To remedy this 
common misfortune, no method is e- 
qual to drawing up the mould about 
their (terns, at fundry times as they ad- 
vance in growth, which will not only 
preferve, but much invigorate the 
plants. This being attended to, they 
will require no further care till next 
feafon, but covering the frame with a 
mat in violent rains or fevere froft, 
never omitting to uncover them in 
mild weather. 

The following fpring, prepare ano- 
ther fpot in the fame manner as for the 
feed, but let the compoft foil be twelve 
or fourteen inches deep, having cut off 
the points of their downright roots 
with a very fharp knife, which, being 
tender, would otherways tear their 
fibres j immerfe them in a foft palp of 
earth and water mixed together like 
batter, about half an hour, and plant 
them in beds eighteen inches by a foot 
afunder. If thefe beds are hooped a- 
crofs, and a mat thrown over them 
during the heat of the day, till their 
roots have (truck, and their leaves be- 
gin to expand, it will much accelerate 
their 



C E D 



C E D 



their growth ; and during any fevere 
ftorm thefucceeding winter, this ought 
ftill to be repeated. It will likewife 
be neceffary, the firit fummer, to draw 
a little earth to the items of the plants, 
as mentioned for the feedlings, and to 
give them frequent gentle waterings 
during the growing feafon. By next 
fpring the Cedars will be out of dan- 
ger, the hoops and mats will be of 
no further ufe, and the plants require 
only common culture at any time 
after. 

Thefe plants being now three years 
old, will be hardy enough for remo- 
val to a common nurfery, in any ordi- 
nary foil or fituation, where, about 
the beginning of April, they fhould 
be planted in lines two feet and a half 
afunder, and fourteen or fixteen inches 
diftant in the line. At tranfplanting, 
continue to reduce the downright roots, 
and fhorten the fmaller fibres mode- 
rately, which will occafion their pro- 
ducing many more new roots, fo as 
afterwards to rife with bulks of earth 
clofely adhering to them; — it will be 
necelTary to fteep them in palp as for- 
merly, to water them at planting, and 
to continue it every fourth or fifth e- 
vening for fix weeks, the weather be- 
ing dry. Here let them continue two 
years, when they may be removed to 
the places in which they are meant to 
remain ; or, if defired larger for future 
defigns, they may again be tt anfplanted 
to another quarter, and placed in rows 
five feet afunder and three feet in the 
row, to continue three years longer ; 
and they will afterwards fucceed e- 
qually well as the youngeit plant, by 
feafonably repeated waterings. 

The above culture is beft for private 
perfons, who have them to remove 
only from their nurfery to the adjoin- 
ing fields ; but for nurferymen, who 
often fend them to a great diitance, a 
parcel of them fhould be put in pots 
nine inches diameter, at three years 
old, where, after keeping them three 
years longer, they may be fliaken out 
of thefe pots with their whole bulks 
of earth entire, and, being wrapt in a 
piece of mat, may with fafety be tranf- 
ported to the remoteft corners of the 
jlland, and will keep feveral months 
out of the ground without fuffering 
any injury. 

When the plants begin to grow 
freely, the leading fhoot always in- 
VOL. I. 



dines to one fide : To remedy this, 
you muft thruit in a ftake by the fide 
of each plant, and tye the leader clofe 
to it, till you have got them to a 
conftderable height, otherways their 
branches, which naturally expand a 
great way, will prevent their growing 
tall. 

To whatever height you intend 
clearing the trunks of thofe Cedars, 
(which ought never to be gFeat, as 
much of their beauty confifts in being 
cloathed with their noble verdant 
boughs to near the furface), let the 
branches be cut off when young and 
tender, as no tree refents lopping their ■■ 
old wood fo much. 

Though thefe trees, when young, re- 
quire all the culture and fhelter here 
directed to make them handfome and 
vigorous, yet, when five or fix years 
old, no plant will better endure our moft 
fevere feafons, or grow in more forbid- 
ding, poor, and hungry foil; thelargeft 
trees of them now known in the world 
being in the coldefl and moft expofed 
places, covered great part of the year 
with fnow; from whence, it cannot 
be doubted, but that they might be- 
come a great ornament, and valuable 
improvement, if generally planted in 
Great-Britain. 

Many pages have been written by 
learned men on the virtues of the wood 
of this tree, as, that it is proof againft 
all putrefaction of animal bodies, — ■ 
that it yields an oil famous for prefer- 
ving books and writings, — that the 
great Sefoftris King of Egypt built a 
veffel of Cedar, two hundred and 
eighty cubits long, — that in the tem- 
ple of Apollo at Utica, was found frefh 
timber near two thoufand years old, 
— and that the ftatue of the Goddefs 
in the Ephefian temple was of this 
material, as was molt of the timber- 
work of that glorious ftructure, Scc.&c. 

The red and white Virginian Cedars 
are eafily propagated, by fowing their 
berries in the fpring on beds of good 
mellow light foil, expofed only to the 
morning fun, and otherways fheltered 
by trees, hedges, or walls. Thefe feeds 
will remain a year in the ground be- 
fore they appear ; during which time, 
the beds mult be kept clean, and the 
furfeitfweetandloofe : It willlikewife 
be neceffary, in extreme drought, to 
give them now and then a gentle fprink- 
ling of water, which will keep th 

C c ber- 



C E D 



C E D 



berries in vigour, as otherways many 
of them perifh, and the remainder 
come up weak, late, and irregular in 
the fpring, after a very dry fummer. 
As the plants make fmall progrefs the 
firft year, they may remain two years 
in the feed-bed; they muft, both the 
fummer feafons, be frequently refrefhed 
with water, and let the furface of the 
beds in autumn, be dreffed as for other 
feedlings. 

The fpring following, remove them 
to another wellfheltered fpot, of the 
fame quality as for the feed, and plant 
them in lines, eighteen inches afunder, 
and nine or ten inches diftant in the 
line; give them the fame kind of cul- 
ture, generally required for Evergreens 
of that age, and let them remain two 
years . 

From thence remove them to ano- 
ther quarter of the nurfer}', in any or- 
dinary foil and fituation, cutting away 
the extreme parts of their roots, with 
any of the crowded or ill placed bran- 
ches, and plant them in lines, three and 
a half feet afunder, and two feet in 
the line ; let them be watered at plant- 
ing, and frequently after it in dry wea- 
ther, till part Mid-fummer, keeping 
the ground entirely clean ; and here 
they ought to remain three years, when 
they will be of a proper fize {to be 
planted out for good. 

The Tree, or Swedifh Juniper, may 
be treated in ail refpedts as the red and 
white Cedars. 

The Bermudas Cedar is more deli- 
cate and flower of growth, when 
young, than the forts mentioned; it 
■will therefore be an improvement to 
fow their berries in pots, to keep them 
in the {hade during the fummer months, 
and under a frame the foilowing win- 
ter. In the fpring, when the feeds be- 
gin to vegetate, plunge the pots into 
a moderate hot-bed till the month of 
July, from whence they wiJI advance 
more in one ftafon, than two in their 
natural flate, and make better plants. 

The fucceeding fpring, plant each of 
them in halfpenny pots, and again 
plunge them in a hot-bed till July, 
when, in mild weather, they may by 
degrees be inured to the open air, and 
next fpring put into penny pots, where 
they fbould remain two years, when 
they ought, once more, either to be 
fhifted into two-penny pots, or plant- 
ed in a well- flickered place of the 



nurfery for three years, by which time 
they will lefift our fevereft winters 
very well. Though this procef. may 
to fome appear troublefome, it is only 
fo in a very trifling degree to a good 
gardener, who has proper convenien- 
ces for executing his bulinefs; and 
the Bermudas Cedar, being a plant of 
great beauty and elegance, is well 
worth beftowing a little extraordi- 
nary pains in bringing it fooa to per- 
fection. 

The two Virginian kinds, and Swe- 
difh Juniper, will grow by cuttings, 
which may either be done the begin- 
ning of April or end of Auguft, the 
latter of which feafons is rather moll 
fuccefst'ul. Being then provided with 
brandies of one or two years growth, 
cut or tear them afunder at the joints, 
leaving a knob of the old wood at 
them, and clear off" the leaves or fmall 
twigs as far as the cuttings aie to be 
buried in the ground, which, if they 
wiU admit of it, may be about fix 
inches; plant them in lines eighteen 
inches diftant, in a fhady border of 
rich loofe earth, and refrefh them with 
water as the feafon may require. The 
following fummer, let the ground be- 
tween the earth be kept loofe and mel- 
low, by frequent fliiring with a trow- 
el ; water them every third or fourth 
evening in dry weather, and the fe- 
cond fpring ihey will be fufficiently 
rooted to tranfplant to the quarters of 
the nurfery, there to be treated as the 
feedlings. 

The Bermudas Cedar will likewife 
grow by cuttings, though not fo freely 
in the open ground ; but ten or twelve 
of them put in a penny pot, and 
plunged into a hot-bed of tanners bark, 
will root liberally in one fummer ; and 
if taken cut of thofe pots the fucceed- 
ing fpring, put in feparate ones of the 
fame fize, and again plunged in the 
hot-bed another fummer, they will be 
larger plants than the feedlings at four 
years old, and may afterwards be 
treated as has been directed for them. 

There are various other forts of 
Cedars, but the rules hete laid down 
for the culture of thofe mentioned are; 
fufficiem to lead to the whole, by only 
obferving, that fuch feeds or plants as 
are brought from warm and temperate 
regions, require moie aid and protec- 
tion for fome time, than others from 
mere rofpkable clime?, 



C E L 



C E L 



In the culture of all the Cedars as fuccefs, for extirpating warts, clean" 

well as that of Libanus, let it bean fing old ulcers, and incataplafms for 

invariable rule, to prune and reduce the herpes miliaiis. This acrimoni- 

t hem to their proper form when the ous plant is rarely exhibited internally: 

branches are young, from whence the virtues attributed to it are thofe of 

their wounds will immediately he3l ; a Simulating aperient, diuretic, and 

buc if this be neglected till old and fudorific : it is particularly recom- 

wocdy, fo great an effufion cf fap will mended in the flow kind of jaundice, 

flow from them in hot weather, as to where there are no fymptoms of in- 



render the trees weak and unhealthy, 
if it does not deftroy them. 

The Cedar grows in all extreams in 
the moift Barbadoes, the hot Bermu- 
das, and cold New-England, even 
where the (how lies alrnoft half the 
year, for fo it does on Mount Lebanon. 
It is raifed of feeds fet like bay-berries, 
and the beft kind in the world might 
be had from the Summer iflands. That 
from Barbadoes and Jamaica is fpuri- 
ous, and fo porous, that wine will foak 
through it ; yet that which is called 
Cedar in New Eng and, grows tall, 
and, fawed into planks, makes excel- 



flamrnation, and in dropfies; fome 
fu;<pofe the root to have been Hel- 
mont's fpecific in the hydrops afcites. 
Half a dram or a dram of the dry root 
is directed for a dofe ; or an infufion 
in wine of an ounce of the frefhroot. 

It is recommended for the yellows in 
cows. 

CELE^IAC, [Apium rapaceum.'] A 
fpecies of celery which fhould be fown 
at two or three different times, in order 
to have, during tha whole feafon, a 
fucceffion of plants which do not run 
up to feed. The firft fowing may be 
in the beginning of March, in which 



lent and everlafting flooring. Some cafe it fhould be upon a gentle hot-bed, 

of this timber was found in the tern- on account of the rawnefs of thewea- 

ple of Apollo at Utica, of zcoo years ther at that feafon. The fecond may 

Handing ; and the ftatue of the Ephe- be at the end of the fame month, in an 

flan Diana is faid to have been of it. open fpot of fine rich moift and light 

If ufed in building, it would reform earth, fully expofed to the warmth of 

the malignity and corrofivenefs of the the fun : and the third fhould by the 

air, and preferve againft moths and latter end of April, or the beginning of 

worms. It is fo dry, that it cannot May, likewife on a rich and moift foil, 

well endure nails, and therefore pro- diftant from the drip of trees. If this 



per only to be fattened by pins of the 
fame wood, formerly it was ufed in 
lhipping. The Shittim mentioned in 



ground be expofed to the morning fun 
only, it will be fo much the better. 
There feeds muft be watered frequent- 



the Scriptures is fuppofed to have been ly, if the weather be dry, for other- 

a fort of Cedar. wife they will not grow j but with this 

Barbadoes CEDAR. This grows na- care they will put forth plants in about 

turally in Barbadoes, Jamaica, and the three weeks or a month, and there 

other Weft-India iflands. and fo large will be fit to tranfplant in five or fix 

as to be employed in fhip building. weeks after theircoming up. 



Eaftard CEDAR. See Bastard 
Cedar. 

CELANDINE, [Ckelidonium majus.~\ 



When this is done, they fhould be 
pricked out at the diftance of three 
inches fquare from one another, in 



This plant grows on old walls, among well prepared, and warmly fituated 

rubbifh, and in wafte fhady places, beds of moift rich earth; and if the 

The herb is of a blueifh green colour j feafon fhould prove cold, thefe beds 

the root of a deep red ; both contain muft be covered with mats, to defend 

a gold coloured juice ; their fmell is the young plants from the morning 

difagreeable; the tafte fomewhat bit- frofts, which would greatly check their 

terifh, very acrid, biting and burning growth, or, perhaps, even kill many 

the mouth; the root is the molt acrid, of them. In drawing them out of 



Juice of celandine has long been ce- 
lebrated in diforders of the eyes ; but 
tX is greatly too fharp, unlefs plentifully 
diluted, to be applied with fafety to 
that tender organ. It has been fume- 
times ufed, and it is faid with good 



the feed-bed, care fhould be taken to 
thin them, where they grow too thick, ' 
and to leave the fmaileft to get more 
ftrength before they are removed. By 
this means the fame feed-bed will af- 

C C 2 foJ« 



C E N 



C E U 



ford three different plantings, which 
will fucceed each other for ufe. 

By the middle of May, fome of the 
firft tranfpianted plants will be fit to 
remove again for blanching; and in 
this particular only the culture of cele- ■ 
riac differs from that of celery, the lat- 
ter being tranfpianted into trenches, 
atid there earthed up, whereas celeriac, 
which feldom grows above eight or 
ten inches high, and therefore requires 
but little earthing up, lhould he plant- 
ed in level ground, or in very fhallow 
drills, its great excellency confiiting 
in the fize of its root, which often 
grows as big as an ordinary turnip, 
even in the common way of fetting 
thefe plants only fix or eight inches a- 
funder in rows, fixteen inches apart, 
and earthing them up but once. It is 
therefore highly reafonabie to think, 
that if the fuperior method of cul- 
ture ufedin the new husbandry was ap- 
plied to this plant, both the tafte and 
fize of the roots would be greatly im- 
proved. 

CELERY, [Aptttm Duke.'] The 
name of a well-known plant, much 
.ufed infoups, and other culinary ufes. 
' It requires exaclly the fame treat- 
ment as celeriac, laid down in the pre- 
ceding article, till it is tranfpianted for 
the fecond time, in order to be blanch- 
ed. Theufual way of performing this, 
is to dig a trench by a line, about ten 
Inches wide, and eight or nine inches 
"deep, in a moift, rich, and light foil ; 
and to loofen and lay level the earth at 
tiie bottom of this trench, and to 
throw up on each fide a ridge of the 
mould taken out, that it may be in 
readinefs there for earthing the celery. 
Thefe trenches are generally three feet 
afunder, which is a fufficient fpace for 
digging between them after ihey are 
filled up. When the young plants 
have been trimmed, and the tops of 
their longeft leaves cut off, they are 
fet in one ftrait row in the middle of 
the bottom of the trench, at about four 

,or five inches deep from one another; 
heir loots are then covered with 

.mould trodden down clofe to them; 
and care is taken to water them plen- 
tifully, till they have ftruck out new 
roots. As thefe plants advance in 
height, frefh earth is drawn in clofe to 
them on each tide, but with great cau- 
tion not to bury their hearts, or even 



to do this in wet weather, left it fhooid 
make them rot. 

When the plants are grown confi- 
derably above the trenches, and all the 
ridges have been employed in earthing 
them up, a fpade is ufed to dig up 
more earth from between their rows, 
and this is continued, at proper inter- 
vals of time, till they arc fit for ufe. 

The celery firft planted out will be 
fit for ufe about the end of July. This 
will be fucceeded by the after planta- 
tions ; and the later fowlngs, if right- 
ly managed, will yield a conftant fup- 
ply of it till April. The lalt crop 
fliould be planted in a drier foil than 
any of the preceding ; and to prevent 
its being rotted by much wet in win- 
ter, it will be right to cover the ridges, 
efpecially if there be any danger of 
hard froit, with peafe-haulm, or fome 
other light covering, which will not 
fmother the plants : for covering them 
too clofe would alfo make them rot. 
However, this will be fufficient to keep 
the froft out of the ground, fo that the 
celery may be taken up whenever it is 
wanted; which cannot be done when 
the earth around it is hard frozen. 
But this covering muft be taken off as 
early in the fpring r>.s the weather will 
permit, left it fhould make the plants 
run to feed. 

Celery will not continue good above 
three weeks or a month after it is fully 
blanched, but will then grow hollow, 
or rot. A fucceffion of fix or feven 
different plantings is therefore necef- 
fary for thofe who would have a con- 
ftant and regular fupply. 

CELLS, [Cellula-.] The fmall di- 
vifions in honey-combs, which geo- 
meters have obferved to be always re- 
gular hexagons. 

Cells alfo denote the hollow places 
between the partitions in the pods, 
hulks, and other feed-veffels of plants. 

Greater CENTAURY, [Centaurium 
majus.] This is a large plant, cultiva- 
ted in gardens. The root has a 
rough fomewhat acrid tafte, and a- 
bounds with a red vifcid juice t its 
rough tafle has gained it fome efteem 
as an allringent; its acrimony as an 
aperient ; and its glutinous quality as 
a vulnerary : theptefent practice takes 
little notice of it in any intention. 

LeJJir CENTAURY, [Centaurium 

minus.'] This grows wild in many 

parts 



C H A 

Parts of England, in dry pafture 
Srounds, and amongft corn. The 
'eaves are an ufeful aperient bitter, 
void of acrimony, they ftand recom- 
mended asfudorificandemmenagogue; 
and by fome in the jaundice, intermit- 
tent fevers, and dropfies. 

CETERACH. Spleenwort. 

CHALK, {Crete.] Chalk is of two 
forts, the hard dry ftrong chalk, which 
is the beft for lime ; and a foft unctu- 
ous chalk, which is the beft for lands, 
becaufeiteafily dirlblves with rain and 
froft : 'tis a very great improver of 
moft lands, and will alter and change 
even the very nature of them, efpeci- 
ally fuch as have not been chalked be- 
fore : for it is apt to caufe land to 
put forth itfelf too much ; and there- 
fore land that is chalked, if it is not 
well dunged and kept in heart, will re- 
ceive but little benefit from a fecond 
chalking, unlefs it lie a great many 
years to recover itfelf, except it be 
ibme very particularfortof land, which 
is the occafion of that faying, that 
chalk makes a rich tenant, and a poor 
landlord. For which reafon the beft 
way of making improvement by it, is 
to mix but one load of chalk with 
two or three loads of dung, mud, or 
frefh earth, which will make it a con- 
stant advantage. It is beft for cold, 
four lands, and commonly the greatest 
improvement of thofe lands that lie 
fartheft from it ; becaufe the lands 
near it partake, and have too much of 
the nature of the chalk in them. They 
commonly lay eight, to fourteen loads 
of chalk upon an acre where they lay 
it fingle, which will upon fome lands 
caufe extraordinary crops of corn, for 
fourteen or fifteen years together. It 
is beft to carry the chalk on upon a 
lay, a year or two before you plough 
it up, becaufe by that means it will 
fweeten the furface of the earth, and 
work not fo much downwards, as it 
will if ploughed up at firft. It makes 
corn to yield well, and where it is laid 
upon grafs ground, it will not fo much 
increafe the bulk of it, as it will make 
the grafs fweet, io as to caufe cattle to 
fatten fpeedily, and cows to give thick 
milk. 

A correfpondent of the editors of 
the Mufeum Rufticum ftrongly re- 
commends chalk as a manure for clay 
lands ; but adds, it fhould be laid on 
rough, in large clods, whereby the 



C H A 

land will gradually receive the greareft 
benefit by it. The falts in the air will 
penetrate, and crumble the clods ; and 
the land, on which the chalk is laid, 
will foon be brought into a ftate of 
fermentation, reduced and pulverized 
in a fpecial manner, infomuch that, 
afterwards, one ploughing will go as 
far towards bringing it into tilth as 
two before. 

The quantity of chalk fhould be 
proportioned to the ftubbornnefs of 
the foil ; from eight to twelve wag- 
gon loads, of four horfes each, to an 
acre. 

The virtues of this manure are not 
exhaufted under, at leaft, twenty years; 
nor are they much perceived till the 
third year ; but for twelve or fourteen 
years the farmer will have reafon to 
thank thofe who advifed him to the 
ftep of chalking his clay lands : and 
happy is he who can afford to do it, 
provided he has a longleafe; for lands 
not worth five (hillings an acre have, 
by this means been, in a year or two, 
worth twenty. Mufcm Rujlkum, vol. 
II. p. 305. 

An old experienced farmer in the 
hundreds of Effex has, in the fame 
work, given an excellent account of 
the benefits refulting from chalk laid 
on clay lands, where, he juftly obferves, 
it infinuates itfelf into the fmall pores, 
and, raifing a fermentation, expofes 
the clay more to the operations of the 
frofts, rain, fun, and air, by which 
means its too coherent particles are 
loofened, and it is reduced to a ftate of 
pulverization. 

" We all know, adds this intelli- 
gent hufbandman, that clay, when re- 
duced, either by fermentation or attri- 
tion, into fmall and minute particles, 
is an excellent foil for affording plenty 
of nourifhment to almoft every kind 
of vegetable : it is therefore natural to 
us, when poffeffed of a ftiff clay, to 
go in fearch of means for producing 
thefe defirable effects. 

" Chalk lias been long allowed the 
palm in this refpect: : our anceftors, 
the ancient Britons, ufed it with great 
fuccefs ; and the practice, as warranted 
by conftant experience, has been hand- 
ed down to the prefent age •. is it not 
then a pity that a cuitom fo profitable 
fhould not be made known to every 
part of his Majefty's dominions ? 

" The chalk we ufe in Effex is moft- 



C H A. 



CHE 



|y brought from Kent : it agrees well nourifhment to vegctbles, which in it Is 
with our clays, and many fine for- natural Hate, it is too retentive of. 
tunes have been made in this country A correfpondenttothe Farmer's Ma- 
by chalking frrms : yet what may ap- gazine, Vol. Ill, p. 47, fays, " I have 
pear very ftrange, but is not lefs true, heard it advanced that chalk is a dref- 
this fame chalk, when laid on the clayey fing only for rtrong land} it is a mif- 
lands in Kent near the pits, does by take, there is fcarce any kind of land to 
no means anfvver the farmer's expec- which chalk will not do amazing fer- 
tation. vice : I have known it do wonders in 

" It has been a common faying a- light land. I imagine the advantages 
mong farmers, that chalk lafts only for of chalk to proceed, not fo much from 
a certain number of years, aftar which its being a manure, as from altering the 
it leaves the land in a worfe (late than nature of the foil j for I do not confider 
that in which it found it: but this is chalk as poffefTmg within itfelf anyvc 
probably a miflake, owing to preju- getative power, being rather a medicine 
dice, negligence, or ignorance. than a food. 

When land has been chalked, undei CHAMOMILE. See Camomile. 
a notion it cannot be hurt by crop- CHAMPIGNONS. A fpecies of 
ping, they generally keep it in almoft mufhrooms. 

conftant tillage, and it pays well for CHARDS of artichokes, the leaves tied 
the ploughings ; but then the foil be- up to blanch. 

} n g ; by fuch conftant working, reduced Chards ifbuts, white beets covered 
to a pulverized ftate, the chalk efcapes over with dry dung, during the winter, 
through the now-enlarged pores of the when they will produce large tops, 
clay, and forms a cruft under the loofe with a downy fhoot, which is the true 
stratum on the furfaceof the hard clay chard. . ,i. 

beneath, being wafhed down by the CHARLOCK. (Sinapi ar-venfe) A iU/ /el 
rains. verv troublefome weed, of which there (Siaft-9 

" The particles of clay, being now are two forts, one bearing white, the 
deprived of their coatings of chalk, other yellow flowers. ,taz CaifacK - 
adhere one to the other, enlarge their CHARGE. An outward applicati- 
furfaces, and become at length a co- on to the bodies of horfes, &c. 
herent mafs of ftiff foil, like what it CHASTE-TREE, [Agnus caftus] A 
was before the land was chalked at all, fmall fhrub, growing fpontaneoufly in 
not woife in quality, but nearly in the Italy, and raifed with us in gardens. Its 
fame ftate. Probably the chief rea- feeds were formerly recommended as 
fon which induces farmers to think the antaphrodifiacs, but the prefent prac- 
land impoveri fhed with chalk is, be- tice entirely difregards it. 
enufe they have, whilft the manure CHEESE. [Cafcus] The curdy part 
adtcd with its full vigour, been for of milk feparated from the reft, at leaft 
many years ufed to great crops, for- from the watery matter, in which it is 
getting, or perhaps never knowing, originally mixed in the natural ftate. 
what crops the land yielded before any It is a property of milk to curdle 
chalk was laid on it. with any acid whatsoever : but of all 

" A great deal of care is requifite acids, there i» none equal to the acid in 
in land after it is frefh chalked : if the the ftomach of a fucking calf. This is 
large lumps are buried before they are what the farmers prefer to all others, 
ftrongly impregnated with the influ- and is called rennet or rennet-bag. fjlnto — 
ences of the atmofphere, they will lie This bag then is the ftomach bag of 
underground undiffblved, in a hard a young calf, that has never tafted any 
mafs for a great number of years, other food than milk, 
without benefiting the landin the leaft. In the fpring let the farmer get a fuf- 
For this reafon farmers mult not be in ficient (tore of them, and they are thus 
a hurry to bury their chalk: in fadt, to be prepared : 

the longer it lies above ground, the bet- Firlt open the bag, and pour out the 
ter as it will then gradually be re- the curd and thick fubftance into a ba- 
duced into powder, which, being mix- fon, leaving the reft that is not curdled 
ed and incorporated with the clay, lef- in the bag. 

iens the cohefion of its parts, enlarges Let the curd in the bafon be care- 
ts pores, and difpofes it to yield that fully examined and picked clean. Ths 
* fpetk 



CHE 



CHE 



flecks of dirt, hair, or other foulneffes 
among it mult ail be taken away, and 
the curd muft be wafhed feveral times 
with cold water, tiil it is quite clean ; 
then fprinkle it well with fait ; wafh 
and fprinkle the bag in the fame man- 
ner, and then put the curd and bag in- 
to a pan coveted from the dull. 

When a fufficient number are pre- 
pared, they aie t» be kept laid clofe to- 
gether for twelve months, and are then 
fit for ufe. 

This is the preparation of rennet 5 
and when the bags have been kept a 
year, or before if wanted, let one oi the 
bags be taken out of the pot and open- 
ed} let the curd be emptied into a clean 
marnle mortar, rub it well with a 
wooden peftle, firrt by itfelf, and then 
with the yolks of three new laid eggs, 
and half a pint of cream, adding a blade 
of mace and a clove, dried before the 
fire and powdered ; when all is well 
mixed together, put it again into the 
bag. 

Then make a very firong brine of 
fait and water, by boiling them toge- 
ther ; let this ftand to fettle, and flrain 
off the clear liquor into a clean earth- 
en pan. Take half a gill of the curd 
out of the bag, and mix it witli this 
brine : this done, clofe the bag again, 
and hang it up with the brine, putting 
in four or five walnut leaves. 

The rennet thus perfectly prepared, 
Js to be fet by a fortnight, and it will 
£hen befit for ufe. 

We have here fet down the manage- 
ment of one bag, and thus may all the 
reft be done, taking care always to do 
one under another, to have a conftant 
fupply, obferving not to take the bag 
out of its firli preparation before it has 
been kept a twelve-month, if poflible, 
nor is it fit for ufe, before it has been 
brined a full fortnight. 

Having defcribed the manner of pre- 
paring the rennet, we now proceed to 
the application. 

New-Milk Chufc, otherwife called 
Morning- Milk Cheefe, is a kind of ge- 
neral prodwclion of the dairy, like frelh 
butter. It is made almoft every where, 
and in molt places is very fine, but va- 
ries in quality in different p3(iures, 
while the preparation is in everyplace 
jthe fame. 

In the morning, towards the time of 
fhe people's coming home fronTmilk- 
\pg, let a clean large tub be fet ready j 



and let the milk brought home the 
evening before, be carefully fkimmed. 
Let the new milk, warm as it is from 
the cow, be clean (trained into the tub, 
and then ftrain the cream taken from 
the lalt night's milk. This is too rich 
alone, and therefore is to be a little re- 
duced, and at the fame time better pre- 
pared for turning by fome hot water. 
This is to be poured in in fucli a quan- 
tity as will ferve to make the whole 
tolerably hot, which fcalds th cream. 
When this is done, the bufinefs is to 
get it cold a little ; to this end it muft 
be moved about with a difh, till it is no 
more than luke-warm. 

It will now be in a condition to re- 
ceive the rennet. 

As to the proportion of rennet to 
milk, that differs according to the 
ftrength of the rennet} but as we can 
very well determine the ftrength of fuch 
as lhall be made according to the di- 
rections, we may be fufficiently exadb 
on this head. The Itrength of the ren- 
net made thus hi fuch, that a fpoonful 
is a very good proportion for three gal- 
lons »f milk ; (o that if the quantity be 
one and twenty gallons, the farmer will 
know he is to put in feven fpoonfuls of 
rennet, and in the fame proportion he 
is to ufe it, let the quantity be what it 
will. 

When the farmer has computed, from 
his quantity of milk, how much ren- 
net he fliall want, there will require 
fome care in the drawing it from the 
bag. He mult do this lleadily and 
evenly, without Airring the bag ; when 
he has got the due quantity out he mult 
ftrain it very carefully into the milk. 
Let him not wonder at our recommend- 
ing fo much care in this refpeft, for if 
the leaft particle of the curd of the ren- 
net fall into the milk, it will be unfeen 
among the curd it brings on in the 
whole, and then mixing up with the 
reft in the making of the cheefe it will 
taint and corrupt the fpot where it is 5 
and every one accuftomed to this com- 
modity, knows how dangerous it is to 
get a corrupt fpot, as it never fails to 
fpread and taint farther. 

When the earning or rennet is put 
in, the veffel is to bs covered, and all is .• 
to Hand quiet for half an hour. This * 
is the time needlul for the operation of 
turning the milk, that is, for collecting 
the curdy part feparate fiom the whey : 
at Che end of the half Iwur the cover is 



CHE 



CHE 



to be taken off, and if it be not come, the prefs, it muft be put into a tub, and 

that is, if the proper reparation be not rubbed on both fides with fait; there it 

made, it is not to be left longer for that is to remain all night ; and next morn- 

purpofe, for the expectation would be ing it is to be rubbed again with fait, 

always fruitlefs, and the lofs of time firft on one fide and then on the other, 

prejudicial ; but more rennet is to be and left upon the brine which came 

putin. Befide the difference of ftrength from the firft and fucceeding fallings: 

in the rennet itfelf, there is a very great when it has lain thus three days, it is to 

variety in milk, fome requiring more be taken out, and laid on a fhelf to dry ; 

of the fame ftrength than other. and while it is dryir»g the houfewife 

When the frefh rennet is put in, the muft continue her care of it, wiping it 



once every day perfectly clean with a 
dry cloth, and then turn it on the dry 
fide; this is to be done every day, till 
it be perfectly dry. At firft it is fit the 



•veffel is to be covered up as before ; 

and opened at times to fee the effect. 

As foon as tte feparation is well made, 

the curd muft be well toffed and worked 

about in the whey. The beft method cheefe dry fomewhat quicker than af- 

of doing this is firft with a mallow terwards, which mayeafily be contri- 

bowl, and afterwards with the hands, ved by changing the place. 

The bowl is to be ufed in rummaging This is the whole procefs that is to 

and tolling it to and fro in the whey; be followed in making the new milk 

and when this has been done for fome cheefe; we have been the more particu- 

time, it is to be wrought and moulded, lar in defcribing it, becaufe it will let 

and worked together between the hands, the reader into the general manner of 

and then prelfed forcibly down to the doing the reft. 

bottom of the tub. One-Meal Cheefe. The farmer will 

The curd being got to the bottom, know we mean, by a one-meal cheefe, 

the whey is to be fkimmed off with a fuch as is made of the milking of one 

fhallow difh ; and while this is doing morning or one evening only ; hut the 

the cheefe vat is to be got ready to re- morning is the proper time, becaufe 

c^ive the curd. the day is then before him ior bufinefs. 

The curd is to be lifted up with the The reader unaccuftomed to thefe 

bands and broke, and preffed down into things might fuppofe we meana cheefe 

the vat. to be eaten at one meal ; but we muft 

When the vat is well filled, the cheefe keep the accuftomed terms : all we can 

f\ N. ^ board is to be laid over it, and a fmall do is to explain them. 

?N ^\^ weight put upon it. In this condition A one-meal cheefe might properly be 



V * it is to be left till all the remainder of be called a new milk cheefe, or a morn- 

£ x "^ the whey, not feparated by the working ing milk cheefe, rather than that laft 

sj *\S in the hands, is preffed gently from it. described, becaufe it is really made of 

^ . When done dropping let thehoufe- new milk only, or of the morning milk 

f* >^ wife wet a farge cheefe cloth, and lay alone, whereas that has the addition of 

', ^ it over the board, and then turn the the evening's cream ; but we fhall not 

X V cheefe upon it. Then fhe is to lay the be underftood by thofe for whofe fake 

^v* t> *" cloth into the vat, and put the cheefe in we principally write, if we do not keep 

li "N again. She is now, with a thin dice, to the ufe of thofe terms they are accuf- 

t^ \ to prefs down the fides every where, tomed t» hear. 

Ij then turning the cloth over it, it is to The one-meal cheefe is made, we have 

\ 5s § N be carried to the prefs, and there prtf- obferved already, of the morning's 

^ k fed with a good weight. milk, and nothing more, and the me- 

5*. 



^ It is to be in its prefent condition thod of making it is the fame with 

nn> half an hour in the prefs; after which that before defcribed, onlythat it is not 

-^- it is to be turned into a dry cloth, and fo difficult in the firft part, becnufr. 

*S then put there again. there iswothingof that trouble of mix- 

JL\ This practice is to be repeated again ing the cream, and preparing the whole 

*i every two hours, each timeufing a frefh for the rennet. 

§. dry clcth ; and it is to continue in the When a cheefe of this kind is in- 

prefs till the evening of the next day ; tended to be made,the houfewife fhould 

y ^. only the laft timeit is turned, itis to Be tell her milk people of it, and give them 

^s ifv put into the vat without any cloth atall. a particular caution to be quick home 

"^ £, When it is, after this, taken out cf. with their pits ; for the moft advan- 



CHE 



C H 



tageou6 way is, to mix in the rennet 
when the milk is warm from the cow j 
it is in this cafe to be /trained into a 
tub, and the rennet at once put to it in 
the quantity before-mentioned. If 
the milk be not warm when it is 
brought in, it muft be fet over the fire 
to give it a little airing : but here a 
great deal of caution is to be ufed, as 
to the degree of warmth : for a little 
heat ferves to make the rennet take 
effect, and the curd feparates the foon- 
er for it, but on the other hand, if the 
milk be made too hot another fepara- 
tion comes on, which is not intended 
in this cafe, and this is the parting 
of the cream from the milk. 

When the milk has been made of 
a proper warmth, and the rennet is 
in, it is to be covered up till the curd 
is formed ; and then the cheefe is to 
be made, in all particulars, juft as that 
before defcribed ; that being the ge- 
neral method, we fhall in none of the 
following inftanccs repeat it, but only 
refer to it, unlcfs when any particular 
circumftance requires fome variation. 

Havin* mentioned what is called 
the one Meal, we muft add the mak- 
ing of the tw6 Meal Cheefe; this is a 
eheefe made of two milkings mixed 
together, and the common way is to 
mix the evening's ai.d the next morn- 
ing's milkings for this purpofe. 

In that cafe the cream is ftirred in- 
to the evening's milk, and then the 
whole is mixed with the morning's 
milk : all this warmed a little toge- 
ther, till nearly as warm as the milk 
when it comes from the cow, and the 
rennet is put to it, it is then to be co- 
vered up, and the whole to be ma- 
naged into a cheefe as before. 

There is .-mother fort of two Meal 
Cheefe, which is made by mixng the 
evening's milk after it has been ikim- 
med, with the morning's entire, and 
this alio is eafily enough made into a 
cheefe, by firft warming the whole o- 
ver a fire. 

Thefe cheefes differ in goodnefs ac- 
cording to the quantity of cream that 
is in them, and they are all, in their 
feveral degrees, inferior to the new 
Milk Cheefe a before-mentioned. As 
that conlifted of the morning's milk 
and evening's cream, it is tiie richeft 
cheefe of this kind. As to the others, 
the ons Meal Cheefe and the twb Meal, 
are juft equal in goodnefs, when the 

Vol. I, 



evening milk is ufed with its cream j 
but in this cafe the cheefe is one de- 
gree inferior to the other, as there the 
cream of the evening went to enrich 
the milk of the morning, without its 
own milk. The third and pooreft 
kind is that made of the two meals or 
milkings, one of which has been fkim- 
med. This reduces it toward the con- 
dition of fkimmed milk cheefe 5 but 
however it i» very fuperior to what is 
made of fkim'd milk only, becaufe as 
that confifts of the curd of milk 
wholly, that had loft its cream, this is 
in part compofed of curd with the 
cream in the milk, that of one meal 
not having been lkimmed. We fhall 
add, for the ufe of the poorer farmer, 
and fuch as have occafion for the mod 
ordinary cheefe of all, the manner of 
making it from milk that has been 
fkimmed entirely. 

Skm-milk Cheefe. When the milk of 
two or more meals has been fkimmed 
for butter, itmuftjbe poured into a tub, 
and the firft thing is to tafte it care- 
fully, to fir.d whether it begin to be 
four, for on this depends the manner 
of working it ; if the nice and ac- 
cuftomed tafte of the houfewife can- 
not perceive any thing four in it, (he 
muft put a part of it into a pot, and 
fet it over the fire, making it fo hot 
that it (hall be able to heat the reft 
thoroughly, to fomewhat more than 
the degree of heat required in the pre- 
ceding directions. 

In thofe cafes a richer milk was 
ufed, fo that there was danger of rai- 
fing and feparating the cream by to» 
much heat : but here there is fo little 
that it is in lefs danger of that acci- 
dent ; and the milk being poorer, is 
not fo eafily turned. It will require 
fomewhat more earning and more heat 
for that purpofe. 

This is the method to be followed, 
if the milk be perfectly fvveet 5 but if 
on tafting it be found four, or but in- 
clined plainly to fournefs, it muft not 
be ftt on the fire, left it mould break ; 
in this cafe a fmall quantity of water 
is to be made thoroughly ho.t, and 
poured in to bring the whole to a dust 
degree of warmth to receive the ren- 
net. 

When the rsnne: is in. the vcflel is 
to be covered, and after this the whola 
procefs is to be repeated, till the chesfe 
is made in the fame manner .» thfe 
former, P d 



CHE 



CHE 



Chifhke Cheefe. In Chefhire their 
partures arefo rich that they never find 
it needful to renew their rich milk, for 
It will alone, with proper manage- 
ment, make cheefe of the riche > kind 
that can be; but fome of the Cheshire 
cheefe peo; >!■- impoverish their new 
milk, by mixing the lkimmed mi k of 
a former meal, and this always debates 
the nature and quality of the product. 

When the morning's milking is 
brought in, they ftrain it warm into 
a large tub, and pot in their rennet, 
four fpoonfuls is the quantity they 
ufually allow to as much milk as will 
make a cheefe of a hundred weight; 
and there are dairies of fuch confe- 
quence in that county, that they turn 
out two chef fes of about this lize e- 
very day, during the five months they 
are in the right feafon. 

They cover up the tub, and when it 
has flood half an hour they open it, 
and find the curd formed. They are 
very cautious to hit the right quantity 
of rennet, which no rule can deter- 
mine, becaufe of the difference in the 
firength -. for too little does not give 
the curd a due confidence, and too 
much makes the cheefe bitter. 

After half an hour they uncover the 
tub, and prefs down the curd with a 
large fkimming diih ; and when they 
have pretty well cleared off the whey, 
they get to work upon the curd with 
their hands, which they break to pieces 
in the moft pei feci manner, working it 
a long time for that i urpofe. 

This done, fuppofing it for a hun- 
dred weight cheefe, they add one 
pound of fait : this they work in, and 
mix thoroughly well with the curd. 

This done they put the curd into a 
vet ftrong and large cheefe cloth, and 
when they have gpt the whey tolera- 
bly well drained out, they put it into 
the vat, or mould, for four hours, with 
a good preffure, putting the vat in the 
cheefe prefs, and working it down 
pretty ftrongly. 

At the end of the four hours they 
take it out, fait the outfides, put it 
into a frefh wet cloth, and put it into 
the vat, and that into the prefs again : 
here it is to he kept four hours more ; 
and in the me ntime a quantity oi good 
Wrong brine is to be made of fait and 
water, and put into a large tub. 

When the cheefe has been four hours 
more in the prefs they takeitcut, and 



put it into the tub of brine, and then 
let it lie eight days, all the time cover- 
ed over with brine, and turned once a 
day. 

At the end of this time it is to be 
taken out, and laid to harden and dry. 
This is to be done in a particular man- 
ner, and preparation is to be made fot 
it accordingly. 

A quantity of rufhes are to be cut 
up. and laid green on a large board : 
on thefe the cheefe is to be laid when 
taken out of the brine, and for the 
firit day nothing is to be done to it ; 
the next morning it is to be turned 
and wiped with a hair-cloth all over ; 
and this is to be repeated every day for 
twenty days. 

At the end of this time it muft be 
removed from the bed of rufhes, and 
laid on the floor; and it is here to be 
taken up, and turned once in th:ee 
days, and at every turning it is to be 
rubbed, till it gets firm and hard : as 
this is the compleating the work, it is 
to be done very carefully ; for if the 
due degree of hardnefs be not given at 
this time, the cheefe will be liable to 
accidents in the keeping. Therefore 
it is an effential point to let it lie long 
enough, and wipe it Carefully. 

When it is thus finifhed and hard- 
ened, the laft thing is the rubbing it 
over with fome butter, and this, though 
it may feem more trivial than the reft, 
is very effential : half a pound of but- 
ter is the proper quantity for a cheefe 
of a hundred weight, and this fhould 
be rubbed thoroughly in all over it, 
nothing more tending to preierve the 
rind in good condition, and keep the 
cheefe found. 

Nettle C/tetfe. Let the milk of the 
morning's milking be taken for this 
purpofe, jult as it conies in warm from 
the cows, without any addition or 
mixture, for the enriching or impo- 
veiifhingit; or the joining with it the 
milk of any former milking. Let this 
pure frefh milk he ftrained through 
the draining bowl into a large pan, or 
fmall tub, and let there he immediate- 
ly added to it as much rennet ai will 
be neceffary to turn it. It is then to 
be covered up half an hour; then the 
curd is to be preffed down, and the 
whey fkimmed off, and when thus fe- 
parated the curd is to be wrought in 
the hands. When it is well worked 
it is to be put into a cheefe vat, not 
more 



CHE 



CHS 



tnore than three quarters of an inch up the curd, which will now be in a 

deep, and prtfTed to get out the whey, body: this muft be done carefully 

The fame method is to be ufed that with both hands; and the curd is to 
was directed for the new milk cheefe, be raifed up as whole as poffible with- 
and by this means there will be a very out breaking it, and fo laid into the 
fine one-meal cheefe, thin and delicate, vat; thtn place it in the prefs, and 
prepared, and i eady for drying. It is put a fmall weight upon it; after- 
then the nettles conre in ufe. When wards put on a larger, but don't bring 
it has been fufrkier.tly preffed, it is to it to the fcrew prefs, for it is too de*. 
be laid on the floor, which is to be fir ft licate for that forcible fqueezing. 
fpread over with frcfli nettle, and ano- When the whey is got out let it be 
ther parcel of the fame is to befpread taken out, falted a little, and laid up- 
over it. on a fine even bed of nettles. The 

Care muft be taken in the cutting leaves of the nettles ftripped from 
and laying of thefe nettles, for the their (talks, fhcuid be ufed for this 
cheefe is to have an even coat, and that purpofe. It muft be fhiffed as the o- 
will depend entirely upon the manage- titer, and will be very ripe in three 
ment in this particular. In the cut- weeks or lefs. Three pints of each 
ting then it mult be obferved, that of the ingredients makes a proper 
only young nettles are to be taken, or fized chsefe of this kind, 
the tender tops alone of fuch as are Sheep's Milk Cheefe. It is the pro- 
more grown ; and thefe, when they perty of fneep's milk that it affords a 
have been laid evenly upon the floor, great quantity of curd ; in the county 
muft be preffed down, and flatted of Denbigh in Wales, very fine cheefe 
carefully into an even and fmooth is made from this milk ; the manner 
fii-fac? : this is the efiential article of doing it is thus : 
whereon the fmoothnefs of the coat The fheep are to be milked morn- 
of the cheefe depends; and if there ing-and evening, and when they are a 
beany thicker ftalks, they will take little ufed to it will ftand very quietly, 
effect upon the tender furface of it, The milk of the evening is to be ftrain- 
and even any rumpled leaf will have ed into that of the morning, and when 
the fame confequence. When the bed the milkers come in the next morn- 
is made fiat and even, the cheefe is to ing the whole is to be mixed with 
be laid carefully upon it, and a coat of what they bring in. 
the fame kind fpread evenly over it. When the miik is all mixed, a little 
Every other day fiefh nettles are to be of it muft be heated, and that poured 
brought in, and the cheefe is to be into the reft to make the whole of the 



wiped and laid upon the new parcel, 
covering it with frefh ones alfo. In 
this manner it is to be kept till it is 
ripe and ready for the table, and no 
cheefe ripens finer. 

Running Cheefe. Mix together equal 
meafure of ftroaki.ngs of the cow, and 
of rich cream, put this in a clean pan. 
Set it in a pot of water, that the wa- 
ter may reach up on the outride as 
high as the cream and firoakings do 
within ; then fet the pot on the fire, 
till the whole be as warm as milk from 
the cow. 

Take the pan out of the water, and 
put in as much rennet as is fuflici- 
ent to turn it. Stir this well in, fo 
that it may mix thoroughly, and then 
•over the veftel. 

When it is come, prefs down the 
curd, and take off the whey: then 
heat the whty fcalding hot and throw 



fame degree of warmth with that 
which ju ft comes from the cow. Then 
the rennet is to be (trained in, and 
thoroughly mixed with it. As to the 
quantity, it is to be about one fifth 
part mere than is ufed for cow's milk. 

The veffel is to be covered, and 
&and quiet till the curd is formed, and 
after that the procedure is to be much 
;he fame with tiiat en other occ«fions. 
The whey muft be lkimmed off, the 
curd muft be well worked in the hand; 
and afterwards put into a wej cloth 
and preffed, but this preffure muft be 
continued fix hours. 

At the end of that time it muft be 
taken out, and the cloth (hi f ted; the 
outfide muft be then falted, and it 
muft be preffed fix hours more, the o- 
ther fide being turned upwards. 

While this is doing a bed of ruflies 
muft be made upon the floor, and the 



»t upon the «urds, and after ti.is take cheefe, vr hen taken cut, mult be laid 

D d z upon 



CHE 



CHE 



upon it, and in this manner it rami 
lie a fortnight, tiking up and turning 
it everv day; and remembering every 
time it is taken up. to rub it foftly but 
thoroughly all ever, with a di y and net 
very coi'rfe cloth. In this time, dry- 
ing gently and leifurely, it will get 
fome<onfiderablenrmnef5,fora cheefe 
of fo mellow a kind ; and when it is 
thus far prepared, it is to be taken 
from the floor and laid upon fhelves, 
where it will dry more quickly than at 
firft, nnd be thoroughly finifhed. 

Chcdder-Chtefe. A name given to a 
very large kind of cheefe made at 
Ghedder, a village near Mendip-hills 
in Somerfetfhire, famous for its paf- 
tures. It is common in this phce for 
three or four dairies to join their milk, 
to make one great cheefe, which ?ene- 
rally weighs from one hundred and 
fifty to two hundred weight ; and 
which they often fell at fix pence per 
pound on the fpot; 

CHEESE-UP, a bag in which the 
rennet is prepared and kept. 

CHEESE PRESS, a prefs to fqueeze 
the whey from the cheefe. 

CHEE/E BOWLS. Garden pop- 
pies. 

CHEESE-RENNET. £*Chbesk. 

CHEESE-RENNET, [Galhum.'] La- 
dies bed-flraw. 

CHERRY-TREE, [Cerafus.'] The 
botanical characters to this genus, ac- 
cording to the fyltem of Linnaeus, aie 
the fame with thofe of Prunus or 
plum, therefore he has joined the Apri- 
cot, Cherry, Laurel, and Biid Cherry 
together, making them only fpecies of 
the fame genus ; but thole who admit 
of the fruit as a charafier to determine 
the genus, muft feparate the cherry 
from the others, becaufe they differ 
greatly in the fhare of iheir Hones; 
but there is a more effeniial difference 
in nature between them, which is, 
that the cherry will not grow upon a 
plum Hock by budding or grafting, 
nor will the plum take upon a cherry 
itock, and )et we know of no trees 
of the fame genus which do not unite 
with e2ch other by budding or graft- 
ing. 

We fhall firlt enumerate the forts 
which are fpecifically different from 
each other, and then mention the va- 
rieties of thefe fruits which are cul- 
tivated in the Englifli gardens, many 
«» which feem to dufei io eflcDtially 



from each other, that they may be al- 
lowed as fpecific differences. 

The fpecies are, i. The common, or 
Kentiih Cherry, i. T'.<- lack Cher- 
ry, 3. The cluiier Cherr . 4. fhe 
Mahaleb, or perlumed Chen 5. 

Cherry-tree with fmooth, fpear-fh i, i, 
entire leaves, of a bluejfh g-een on 
thei»underfide,andfpreadingbr»nches: 
The firil fort i» fo wtjl known ia 
Enelan<l as to, need no 
Fn 1 this fort, it hath been fuj 
molt of the varieties which a 
vatedin the Englifh gardens., have been 
raited. 

The early May Cherry. 

The May Duke Cherry, 

The Archduke Cherry. 

The Flermfh Cherry. 

The Red Heart. 

The White Heart. 

The Black Heart. 

1 he Amber Heart. 

1 s Ox Heart. 

The Lukeward, 

The Carnaiion. 

The Hertlordfhire Heart. 

The Moiellc. 

The Bleeding Heart. 

Yellow Spanifn Cherry. 
Two forts with couble flowers, one 
larger and fuller than the other. Thefe 
are propagated forornamtnt. 

The fecond foit is the Black Cherry, 
wh ch is fuppofed to be a native of 
England. '1 his grows to be a large 
tree fit (or limber, and is frequently 
found growing as fuch in the w.ods. 
From this the only varieties which I 
h:-.ve ever known raifed by feeds, are 
the Black Coroun and the faizll Wild 
Cherry ; of which there are two or 
three varieties, which differ in the f.ze 
and colour of their fruit. 

The (tones of th;s fort are generally 
fown for raifing flocks-, to gratt or bud 
the other forts t i cherries upon, being 
of quicker growth, a; d of ion ti 1 u- 
ration than ei her of the other, lo are 
very jufily efkem-d, and prefetted to 
them. 

The wood of the fourth fort, is by 
the French greatly elttened for making 
of cabinets, becaufe it hath an agree- 
able odour. This, and the wood of 
the Bird Cherry, are oiten blended to- 
gether, and pafs under the appellation 
of Bois de Sainte Lucie ; hut the Bird 
Cherry is the true fort. 
It is eafily prcpaga.ed by laying 
down 



CHE 



CHE 



down the brandies early in the fpring, 
which will rake root by the following 
autumn, when they maybe taken cfF, 
and cither planted in a nurfery to get 
flrength, or to the places where rhey 
are defigned to remain. It may alio 
be propagated by Cowing of the (tones 
in the Came manner as other chei its. 

Ail the foru ot cherries wnich are 
ufually cultivated in tiuit gardtns, are 
propagated by budding or gra:ting the 
feve-ial kinds into liccks of the black 
or wile; red chenies, which are firong 
(hooters, and of a longer duration 
than any of the garden kinds. The 
ftoi e» of thefe two kinds are fown in 
a bed of light fandy earth in autumn 
(or are pielcrved in fand till fpring, 
and then fowed :) thefe young ltccks 
fhouid temain in thefe nurlcry-beds 
till thefecond autumn after fowing, at 
which time you fhouid prepare an open 
fpot of good frtfh earth, which fhouid 
be well worked. In this ground, in 
October, you fhouid plant out the 
young flocks at th.ee feet diitance 
row from row, and about a foot afi.;n • 
der in the rows, being careful in tak- 
ing them up from their feed-beds, to 
loofen their roots well with afpadc, to 
pi event their breaking, asalfo to prune 
their roots; and if they are inclinable 
to toot downwards, you Ihculd fhort- 
en the tap-root, to caufe it to put out 
lateral roots; but do not prune their 
tops, for this is what they will by no 
means endure. 

The fecond year after planting out, 
if they take to growing well, they will 
be fit to bud, if they are intended for 
dwarfs ; but if they are for ftandards, 
they will not be tall enough till the 
fourth year, for they fhouid be budded 
or grafted near fix feet from the ground, 
otherwife the graft will not advance 
much in height; fo that it will be im- 
pofiible to make a good tree from fuch 
as are grafted low, unlefs the graft is 
trained upward. 

The ufual way is, to bud their flecks 
in fummer, and fuch of them as mif- 
carry, to graft the fucceeding fpring, 
(the manner of thefe operations will be 
defcribed under their proper heads.) 
Thofe trees where the buds have ta- 
ken, mufl be headed off the beginning 
of March about fix inches above the 
bud ; and when the bud hath fhot 
in fummer, if )ou fear its being blown 
eut by |the winds, you mult fallen it 



up with fome bafs, or fuch foft tyiRg„ 
to that pait of the flock which was 
left above the bud. The autumn fol- 
lowing thefe trees will be fit to re- 
move ; but they may remain two 
years before ihey are tfanfplanted ; iii 
the doing of which ycu mufl not heafl 
them, for this very oiten is immediate 
death to them ; and it they furvive it, 
thej feldom recover this amputation 
in five or fix years. 

It thefe trees aie intended for a wall, 
would advife the planting dwarfs be- 
twten the flandard .-. ; fo that while 
the dwarfs are filling the bottom of 
the walls, the ftandards will ccver the 
tops, and will produce a g'eat deal of 
fruit: but thtfe, a> the dwarfs arife 
to fin the wall*, mull be cut away to 
make room to; them; and when the 
dwarf t;e;s cover the walls, the fti-nd- 
ard. fhouid be entirely taken away. 
But we would advife never to plant 
flandard cherries over other fruits, for 
the;;; is no oiherfort of fruit that will 
profperwell under the drip of cherries. 

When thefe trees are taken up from 
the nurfery, their roots mull be fhcrt- 
ei c.l, and all the bruifed parts cut cif; 
as alfo all the fmall fibres, which would 
dry, grow mouldy, and be a great pre- 
judice to the new fibres in their com- 
ing forth; you mult alio cut off the 
dead part of the (lock which was left 
above the bud, clofc down to the back 
part of it, that the flock may be co- 
vered by the bud. If thefe trees are 
defigned lor a wall, obferve to ph.ee 
the bud directly Irom the wali, that 
the back part of the flock that was 
cut may be hid from fight. The foil 
that cherries thrive belt in, is a frefu 
hazel loam; for if the foil is a dry 
gravel tliey will not live many years, 
and will be perpetually blighted in the 
fpring. 

The forts commonly planted a gain ft 
walls ate the Early May and May 
Duke, which fhouid have a fouth af- 
pected wall. The Hearts and common 
Duke will thrive en a well wall; and 
in order to continue the Duke later in 
the feafon. they are frequently placed 
againft north and north-welt afpected 
walls, where thty fucceed very well ; 
and the Moielloon a north wail, which 
lait is chiefly planted for preserving. 
The Hearts are all of them ill bearers, 
for which reafon they are ftldom 
planted againft walls : but we are apt 



C II E 



CHE 



to btlieve, if they were grafted on the 
Bird Cherry, and managed properly, 
that defect might be remedied ; for 
this (lock will render cherries very 
fruitful ; and having the fame effccl 
on cherries as the Paradife flock hath 
on apples, they may be left in lefs 
compafs, which is an experiment well 
worth the trial, 

Your trees, if planted againfl a will, 
fhould be placed at lealt twenty or 
twenty-four feet afunder, with aitand- 
ard-tree between each dwarf. 

In pruning thefe forrs of fruit, you 
fliould nevei fhorten their fhoots ; for 
the moft part of them produce their 
fruit buds at their extreme pan, which, 
when fhoitentd, are cut off, and this 
often occafiuns ihedeath of the fhcot : 
their branches fhould be therefore 
trained in at toll length horizontally, 
obferving in May, where there is a 
vacancy in thewall,toltopfomeflrong 
adjoining branches, which will occa- 
sion their putting out two or more 
fhoots j by which means, at that fca- 
fon of the year, you may aiwayt. get 
a f imply of wood for covering the 
wall ; and at the fame time fhould all 
foreright fhoots be difplaced by the 
hand, for if they are fuffeied to grow 
till winter, they will not only deprive 
the bearing branches of their proper 
fupplyot ncurifhment, but when they 
are cut cut it occafions the tree to 
gum in that part (for cherries bear the 
feaife the worft of any fort of fruit 
trees ;) but be careful not to rub off 
tlie fides or fpurs, which are pioclnced 
upon the two or three years old wood : 
for it is upon thefe that the greateft part 
of the fruit are produced, which fpurs 
will continue fruitful for feveial years. 
And it is for want of dul, obferving 
this caution, that cherry-tiees are often 
feen fo unfruitful, efpecially the Mo- 
rello, which the more it is cut the 
weaker it fhoots ; and is at laft de- 
ftroyed ; which, if they had been fuf- 
feied to grow without any pruning, 
might probaMy have lived many years, 
and pioduced large quantities of fruit. 
The ufual diftance allowed for their 
(landing in orchards is forty feet fquare, 
at which fpace they are lefs fu-bject to 
blight than when they are clofer plant- 
ed 5 and the ground may be tilled be- 
tween them almoft as well a^ if it 
were entirely clear, efpecially while 
the trctb are young ; and the often ftir- 



ring the ground, provided you do net 
diliurb their roots, will greatly help 
the trees j but when they are grown 
fo big as to overfhadow the ground, 
the drip of their leave* will fuffer very 
few things to thrive under tuem. 

The forts being approved of for an 
orcbaid, are the common Red or Kent- 
ifh cherry, the Duke, and Lukeward, 
ail which are plentiful bearers. But 
orchards of tl.efe trees are now fcarcely 
worth planting, except where land is 
very cheap. 

There are feme perfons who graft 
the Duke, and other forts of cherries, 
upon the Morelio cherry, which is but 
a weak fhooter, in order to check the 
luxuriant growth of their trees, which 
will fuccced for three or four years 3 
but they are not of long duration. 

The Early, or May cherry, is the 
firff ripe j fo one or two trees of this 
be allowed a p; ice in a gar- 
den, where there is ruoni lor variety. 
The next ripe is the May Duke, which 
is a larger fruit than the other, and is 
more valuable. After this comes the 
Archduke, which, i! permitted tohang 
upon the tree till the fruit is quite ripe, 
is an excellent cherry. 

The Hertfordfhire cherry, which is 
a fort of Heart cherry, but a firmer 
and better flavoured fruit, will not ri- 
pen earlier than the end of July, or the 
beginning of Auguft, which makes it 
the more valuable, for its coming 
when the other forts of cherries are 
gone. 

The Morelio cherry, which is gene, 
rally planted againfi walls to a north 
afpe-cl, and the fruit commonly ufed 
for preferving, or for t?rts, yet where 
they are planted to a better afpcc~f,and 
fuffeied to hang upon the trees till 
they are thoroughly ripe, is a very good 
fruit for the table : therefore two or 
three of the trees of this fort fhould 
have a place where there is plenty of 
walling, upon afouth-weft wall, where 
they will ripen perfectly by the middle 
or end of Augult, at which time they 
will be an acceptable fruit. 

The Carnation cherry is alfo valua- 
ble for coming late in the feafon j this 
is a very firm flefhy fruit, but is not 
the beft bearer. This fort will ripen 
very well on efpaliers, and by this 
means the fruit may be continued 
longer in the feafon. 

The lar^e Spanifb. cherry is nearly 
allied 



CHE 



CHE 



*llied to the Duke Cherry, from which 
it feems to be only a variety acciden- 
tally obtained ; it ripens f> on alter 
the common Duke cherry, and very 
often pafles for it. 

The yellow Spanifh cherry is of an 
oval Ihape, and of an amber colour ; 
this ripens late, and is a fweet cherry, 
but not of a rich flavour, and being 
but a middling bearer, is not often ad- 
mitted into curious gardens, unlefs 
where variety is chiefly confidered. 

The Corone, or Coroun cherry, is 
fomewhat like the Black Heart, but a 
little rounder ; this is a very good 
bearer, and an excellent fruit, fo 
fhould have a place in every good 
fruit-garden. This ripens the middle 
of July. 

The Lukeward ripens foon after the 
Corone clierry; this is a good bearer, 
and a very good fruit ; it is of a dark 
colour, not fo black as the Corone, 
and will do well in flandards. 

The Black cherry is feldom grafted 
or budded, but is general, y fown for 
flocks to graft the other kinds of cher- 
ries upon; but where perfons are cu- 
rious to have the beft flavoured of this 
fort of fruit, they fhould be propaga- 
ted by grafting from fuch trees as pro- 
duce the beft fruit. This fort of cher- 
ry is frequently planted in wilderr.ef- 
fes, where it will grow to a laige fize, 
and, at the time of its flowering, will 
make a variety, and the fruit will be 
food for the birds. 

The double-flowering cherry is alfo 
propagated for the beauty of the flow- 
ers, which are extiemely fine, the 
flowers being as double and large as a 
Cinnamon Rofe; and thefe being pro- 
duced in large bunches on every part 
of the tree, render it one of the moft 
beautiful trees of the fpiing. Some 
of the flowers which are lefs double, 
will often produce fruit, which the 
very double flowers will not; but this 
defect isfufijciently recompenfedinthe 
beauty of its flowers. This is pro- 
pagated by bu dinp or grafting on the 
Black or Wild cherry flock, and the 
trees are very proper to intermix with 
the fecond growth of floweiing- trees. 

Barbados CHERRY. See Bar ba- 
d o f s Cherry. 

Bird CHERRY. See Eiro Cher- 
ry. 

Cowhch CH.' FY. A fpe:ies of 
&ie Lai badvjs -..-. ry. 

i // tJ / ' ft / * C /'<?/< t . 

Sec /, j 'SSZ. /2>r< ( , _ 



Ptrtagai CHERRY. A fpecies of 
the Bird cherry. 

Cornelian CHERRY, [Corxut.] Dog, 
wood. There are fcveral fpecies of 
this tree growing in feveral parts of 
England and America. The wood is 
much ufed for butchers fkewers. 

Wmicr CHERRY , [41k kengi.] There 
arefeveial varieties of this plant cul- 
tivated by the curious botanifts, but 
there is but one of them that is either 
ufeful or ornamental, which is the 
Alkekengi officinal u rn, or the common 
medicinal Winter cherry. 

This plant produces round red fruit, 
about the fize of a large cherry ; which. 
is inclofed in a finall bladder, which, 
in autumn, changes' to a reddifh co- 
lour, and opens, and fhews its beau- 
tiful red fruit, which continues till 
November, or fometimes later, before 
it falls off; for which it is chiefly kept 
in gardens : It is very apt to creep far 
under-ground, by which it foon fpreads 
over a large fpot of ground, therefore 
fhould be confined in pots ; which, if 
fet in the made, and frequently wa- 
tered, will very much add to its fruit- 
fulnefs ; for when the roots have li- 
berty, they fpend thcmfelves infpread- 
ing, and become lefs fruitful than 
when confined in pots. 

CHERVIL, [Cha-refolium.] This 
is a low annual plant, fomewhat like 
paiiley, commonly cultivated in gar- 
dens ior culinary purpofes. This plant 
is grateful both to the palate and fto- 
mach, gently aperient and diuretic. 
Geoffroy allures us, that he has found 
it from experience to be of excellent 
fervice in dropfies ; that in this disor- 
der, it promotes the difcharge of u- 
rine when fuppreffed, renders it clear 
when feculent and turbid, and when 
high and fiery of a paler colour; that 
it acts mildly without irritation, and 
tends rather to allay than excite, in- 
flammation; and that dropfies which 
do not yield to this medicine, are 
fcarce capable of being cured by any 
other. He directs the juice to be given 
in thedofeof three or four ounces e- 
very fourth hour, and continued for 
fome time, eitlur alone, or in conjunc- 
tion with nitre andfyrup of the five 
opening roots. ///■/?/. ^£4. J%P?-/t. 
CHtSNUT-TREE, [Cajtanra.] The 
fpecies aie, i. The common or Spa-* 
nifli Chefnut. 2. The ftrip'd Chefnut. 
3. The Chinquapin, or dwarf Virgini- 
an Chefnut, 



CHE 



CHE 



This much neglected, though grace- 
ful and magnificent tree, by attending 
to its proper culture, ior fruit, timber. 
and copfe-wood, might, in a few years, 
become among the greatefl advantages 
this country can reap by planting. 

To raife them tor fruit, procure a 
parcel of the nuts from Portugal and 
£;pain ; pick out the largeft, plumpeft, 
and brownelt of them ; the eoodnefs 
of the feed is known by its weight, to 
try which, throw them into a tuh cf 
wa'er ; rt-jecTt fuch as fw im, hut thofe 
that (ink you may ht Cure are good ; 
preferve them in dry fand the begin- 
ning of March, when, having pre- 
pared a fpot of lcofe mellow ground, 
fow them in diilis made with the hoe, 
three inches deep, the drills about 
fourteen inches afunder, and the nuto 
iix inches in the drill, where, as they 
fhoot freely, they fhould only remain 
one year. 

In February, or early in March fol- 
lowing, remove them to another quar- 
ter; fttorten their tap-roots with a 
fharp knife, fmocrh and clean, fparirg 
their fpread ng fibres, and keeping 
them asfho:t a> pcflible out of the 
ground, to keep thefe fibres frelh, and 
prevent their moulding; plant them 
in line-, two and a half feet afunder, 
and one foot dlltant in the line, keep- 
ing them clean' in fummer, and point- 
ing over the ground between the lines 
fpring and autumn, when any crofs 
ill-placed branches may be pruned off; 
and in this Gtuation- let them remain 
two years. 

Remove them carefully, by taking 
up their whole fibres, to another frefh 
quarter of the nurfery, llill obfsrving 
to fhoiten their tap-root-., to cut off 
fuch as crefs each other, and fmooth 
the ends of the fpreading ones, which 
will now be ftrongerand more nume- 
rous; at the fame time, prune away 
any ill-placed branches from their bo- 
dies and tops ; which being done, 
plant them in lines four feet afunder, 
and at two feet difiarce in the line, 
where, mar.aginrthem in other refpe&s 
as dirtCted for the former nurfery, let 
them continue three years. 

By this time thefe trees will be of a 
prober a?e and fize, either for orna- 
mental plantations in avenues, clumps 
in parks, the wildernefs, or in the or- 
chard way for fruit ; but it may be 
neceffaryhereto obferve, that the (hade 



of the chefnut, lilce that of the afh, i» 
noxious to other plants, and that 
they fhould therefore be placed ifl 
thickets, or other detached plantations, 
by themfelves. 

The ground intended for a consider- 
able plantation of fruit-bearing chef- 
nut trees, fhould have three or four 
ploughings the preceding fummer and 
winter; and if one good digging is ad- 
ded a little before planting, it will be 
a great improvement to the foil, as I 
hold the labour of the fpade to be of 
all others the belt. This being done, 
your tree'> carefully raifed, their roots 
and bodies properly pruned, plant 
them in liiaight rows, fix feet diftant 
every* way ; let the ground be annually 
dug, to encourage the fpreading of 
their roots, and, at this diliar.ee, they 
may remain till the bianches begin to 
approach each other, when you mult 
take up, by the roots, every fecond row 
entirely, and every fecond plant in the 
row remaining, which will leave them 
at twelve feet diflance ; and the wood 
of the trees taken up, will b: hig lily 
ufeful for many purpofes of gardening 
and farming, Having dug or half- 
trenched the land, (for deep trenching 
would increafe the growth, but retard 
the fertility), it may, for fome years, 
if of a good quality, be profitably em- 
plo>ed in potatoes, cabbages, turnips, 
and many other crops, which, by dig- 
ging in the leaves of the chefnuts, 
when rotted, (the beft of all manure 
for tiiem), will, inliead of exhaufting, 
annually invigorate the foil, ar,d im- 
prove the plantations both for fruit and 
timber. Thefe trees having ftood till 
their branches begin to meet as for- 
merly, mufl again be reduced in the 
fame proportion the others were, which 
will leave them at twenty-four feet di- 
flance every way, and at which distance 
they may remain for good. For thofe 
intended for timber and copfe-wood, 
the propagation will be attended with 
little trouble or expence. 

Let the field be fallowed the preced- 
ing fummer, and get two or three good 
de^p ploughing;, in winter, to fweeten 
and pulverife the foil, and to deftroy 
all root-weeds. Having procured and 
tried your feeds, as formerly mentioned 
for the fruit-bearing trees, make drills 
acrofs the ground with a hoe, four feet 
diflance, and put in your nuts, with 
the point or eye upwards, at fourteen 

or 



CHe 



GBP 



Sr fixteen inches afunder, filling up may eafily be brought herewith fafety, 

the drills, and raking the furface by mixing them with dry fand, and 

fmooth ; and for this, and the follow- which all the nut kinds from far di- 

ing year, you may take a line of beans ftant countries ought to be, though, 

between the drills, which, having their by not adverting to this fimple and 

tops cut off, and being kept clean, will eafy prefervativs, we generally lofe 

be a protection to the young plants, the greater! part of them. It grows 

and encourage their growth. At the in its native foil to about fourteen or 

end of two years, early in the fpring as fixteen feet high, and is hardy enough 

has been faid, remove every fecond to bear our fevereft winters. This 

plant in the rows, which will leave may be propagated by its feeds as 

them about two feet and a half afun- the common chefnut, or, when thefe 

der, and at this diftance let them re- cannot be procured, by inarching on 

main three years. With the plants it, which will increafe its magnitude, 
taken up as above, I mean the two The fruit of the chefnut tree is not 



years old, you may make any planta- 
tion required. 

At the end of the three years, re- 



only ufed for many elegant dimes in 
France and Italy, but is found ftrong 
and healthful food for labouring peo- 



move by the roots, fo as not to hurt pie, either made into bread, or pre- 
the plants that are to continue, every pared as they do in various ways a- 
fecond row of trees, and every fecond broad: For all which purpofes, we 
tree in the remaining row, which will might in a few years have abundance 
leave them at the diftance of eight feet of them, as well as for feeding our 
by five. The plants now raifed will hogs, which would highly improve 
have carroty roots, and few fibres ; both the tafle and quality of our ba- 
fo are not worth planting again, but con, and render it as good as from Vir- 
will be ufeful for flakes and poles, ginia, or any other country we know : 
Left, by rooting out the unneceffary It would alfo much reduce its price, 
trees, any of thofe that are to remain and bring it within the reach of la- 
fhould beloofened,or their roots hurt, bouring men. 

let the holes be filled up immediately, The leaves of this tree make ex- 
the ground well dug, any kitchen crop cellent litter for cattle, which, when 
taken, and the trees remain untouched mixed with their dung, (particularly 
another year ; when, in February, cut that of cows well rotted) is an admi- 
them over, referving only one of the rable manure for many kinds of flow- 
ftraighteft and moft vigorous, at the ers, green-houfe, hot-houfe, and other 
diftance of twenty- five to thirty feet : delicate plants 

You may ftill continue to work the The beft ground for fruit-bearing 
ground, and take dwarf-crops between chefnuts, is a loofe moift (though not 
the rows for two years more ; after wet)»gravel or fand : They will like- 
vvhich, they will foon cover it, and wife fucceed in any ordinary mixt foil, 
muft be left to nature. One will rea- which, if it abound with fmall round 
dily obferve, that when any of the Acnes, fhould not be taken away, as, 
feeds have failed at the due diftances from their Warmth, they will cherifh. 
here prefcribed, thefe defefls are to be and forward the ripening of the fruit, 
fupplied by the beft plants, taken up For plantations of timber-trees, and 
at two years old. copfe-wood, you can hardly go amifs, 

The fti ip'd chefnut is amongft the fo there be depth of foil, and no ftand- 
moft beautiful of all the variegated ing water ; they will grow on obfti- 
trees, and, when mixed with other nate clay, and the blcakeft declivities 
fttip'd plants, has a moft agreeable and of hills, this tree, where fruit is not 
Cliearful e'ffett, the blotches being of aimed at, being more patient of cold 
a rich fhining gold colour, ftrongly than heat. 

mark'd. This is ufually propagated The wood is ufeful for many eiTen- 
by budding, or inarching it on the tial purpofes : It makes good tables, 
plain fort, though I have raifed many chairs, and bedfteads; is the moft 
of them by common grafting. lafiing poles of any put in the ground 

The Chinquapin, or dwarf kind, a- with the rind on, for efpaliers, pali- 
bounds in the woods of America, where fade hedges, dead fences, vine and 
it produces abundance sf nuts, which hop yards, and for pipes to convey 
Vat. I\ le water 



C M E 



CHE 



water under ground : It will Iaft longer 
than elm, or even oak itfelf. In Italy, 
the beft calks for wine and other li- 
quors are made of this wood, which 
has the fingular property, when tho- 
roughly feafoned, of maintaining its 
bulk, without fhrinking or fwelling, 
which molt other timber does; and 
formerly was built of it, great part of 
the ancient city of London, near which 
were large forefts of chefnut trees, 
which, whether or not a native of this 
ifland, is not well determined. 

HORSE-CHESNUT, [Caftanta E- 
quina, j£fculus.~] The fpecies are : i. 
The common Horfe-chefnut. z. The 
yellow blotched Horfe-chefnut. 3. 
The white blotched Horfe-chefnut. 
4. The fcarlet flowering Horfe-chef- 
nut. 

The firft mentioned fort, though a 
native of Cor.ftantinople, defies the 
greateft feverity of our winters, and 
foon becomes a large tree. The nuts 
of it may be fown as directed for the 
Sweet chefnut, and, like it, fhould 
only remain one year in the feed bed. 

In February, or early in March fol- 
lowing, having reduced their top- 
roots, plant them in lines three feet a- 
funder, and at fifteen inches diitar.ee 
in the line, where let them remain 
three years. 

To make them a proper fize for a- 
venues, or clumps in parks, and lawns, 
remove them to another quarter ; drefs 
the roots properly, and prune fome of 
the under branches, with any others 
that are crofs,too thick, or ill-placed ; 
but beware of the large bud at the 
extremity of the leading branch, in 
which is inclofed the fhoot in embryo 
for the fucceeding feai'un : plant them 
in lines, fix feet afunder, and two and 
a half feet in the line. In this litua- 
tion they may continue three, but net 
above four years, when, in an ordinary 
foil, the plants will be from twelve to 
fourteen or fifteen feet high. 

The fecond and third forts may be 
propagated by budding them on the 
common kind, on which they take 
freely. 

The fcarlet-fiowerir.g Horfe-chefnut 
is a beautiful plant, and produces a 
very rich and elegant flower. It is a 
native of An erica, but is hardy enough 
to bear our climate, in ordinary fitua- 
tions, when four or five years old, 
though it i=> fomewhat more delicate 



than the common in infancy : there- 
fore, having procured their nuts, 
(which you may eafily do from South 
Carolina, where they grow abundant- 
ly) fow them as directed for the com- 
mon kind, but in a warm fheltered fi- 
tuation, and in a rich loofe fweet 
mould ; and remove them the fucceed- 
ing fpring to a fituation and foil of the 
fame quality, where they may remain 
three years, when they will have ac- 
quired ftrength enough to put up with 
common ufage. This tree, in America, 
grows to the height of thirty feet. 

This may alfo be budded or in- 
arched on the common kind ; but 
th#y will neither make fo hand fome 
plants, nor ever grow to near the fize 
of thole raifed from feeds. 

The Horfe-chefnut is a tree of fin- 
gular beauty when in bloom ; and the 
common fort of it, which will fuc- 
ceed in almoft all foils, (though beft 
in that which is deep) is proper e- 
nough to intermix in ornamental 
plantations, in a fheltered country; 
but in bleak and expofed fituations, it 
is idle to plant them, as, from the 
wood being very brittle, every impe- 
tuous wind will break and disfigure 
more or lefs of them, 

The fruit is fo extremely bitter, that 
even hogs will not eat it, though the 
Tuiks mix it with other food for their 
horfes that have coughs, or are broken- 
winded, for which it is faid to be an 
excellent remedy. 

The timber, except for fuel, anfwers 
no valuable purpofe I know, further 
than that it is proper for pipes, to 
convey water under ground, and, in 
that fituation, will laft longer than 
many harder woods. 

CIIFST-FOUNDER, a diltemper 
incident to horfes, and occafioned by 
an improper treatment of an inflam- 
mation between the ribs. For if the 
inflammation be not difperfed in time, 
and the vifcid blood and juices fo at- 
tenuated by internal medicines, that a 
free circulation is obtained, fuch a 
Itiffnefj and inactivity will remain on 
thofe parts as will not eafily be re- 
moved ; and this ftiffnefs is generally 
called cheft-founder. 

The figns of this inflammation are, 
a ftiffnefs of the body, fhouiders, and 
fore-legs ; attended fometimes with a 
fhort dry cough, &c. a fhrinking when 
handled in thofe parts. 

Bleedirg, 



CHI 



CHI 



Bleeding, foft pectorals, attenuants, 
and gentle purges, are the internal re- 
medies ; and externally the parts af- 
fecled may be bathed with equal parts 
of fpirit of fal ammoniac, and oint- 
ment of marfhmallows, or oil of chat 
momile. 

Thefe outward inflammations fre- 
quently fall into the infideof the fore- 
leg, and fometimes near the fhoulder; 
forming abfcefTes there, which termi- 
nate the diforder. 

CKIBOULS, or Cibouls; They 
are (properly fpeaking) but degenerated 
onions, propagated only by feeds, of 
the bignefs of a corn of ordinary gun- 
powder ; in one fide a little flat, and 
half round on the other, and yet a 
little long and oval, and white on the 
infide. They are fown in all feafons ; 
but herein they are different from the 
onion, in that it produces but a fmall 
roor, and feveral (terns, or upright 
fhoots, and thofe which produce molt 
of them, are moft efteemed, and of 
which you fhould be careful to pro- 
duce molt feed, that wjll beft fit to 
be gathered in Auguft, if planted in 
March ; they are fown almoft in every 
month of the year; they are thinned 
as well as onions, and fome that are 
tranfplanted will profper well : In dry 
fummers, their beds muft be watered, 
and their planting muft be always in 
good earth. 

CHICHES, or CHICK PEASE, 
[Ocer.~\ It is much cultivated in 
Spain, being one of the ingredients in 
their olios, and is there called Gara- 
vance; it is alfo cultivated in France, 
but in England it is rarely fown. 

The plant is annual, mooting out 
feveral (talks from the root, which are 
about two feet long; thefe aie hairy, 
and garnifhed with long-winged leaves 
of a grayifh colour, compofed of fsven 
or nine pair of fmall roundifh leaves 
(or lobes) terminated by an odd one, 
which are fawed on their edges. From 
the fide of tiie branches come out the 
flowers, fometimes one, at other times 
two together. They are maped like 
thofe cf peafe, but are much fmaller 
and white, ftanding on long foot- 
ftalks, and arefucceeded by fiiort hairy 
pods, including two feeds in each, 
which are the fize of common peafe, 
but have a little knob or protuberance 
on one fide. 

The feeds of this plant may be fown 



in the fpring, in the fame manner as 
peafe, making drills with a hoe about 
an inch and a half deep, in which the 
feeds fhould be fown at about two 
inches afunder, then with a rake draw 
the earth into the drill to cover the 
feeds. The drills fhould be made at 
three feet diftance from each other, 
that there may be room for their bran- 
ches to fpread, when the plants are 
full grown, as alfo to hoe the ground 
between them, to keep it clean from 
weeds, which is al] the culture thefe 
plants require. 

This plant flowers in June, and the 
feeds ripen in Auguft ; but unlefs the 
feafon proves warm and dry, thepiants 
decay before the feeds are iipe. a 

CHICKEN, the young of the ccck l %£ flc 
and hen. As great pleafure and con- £* 
venience, befides confiderable profit, /// ' 
accrues to the farmer from keeping " 
poultry, we will under this article en- 
deavour to defcribe the whole of what 
relates toraifmgof chicken. 

Though the profits arifing from the 
hen and cock are fmall, in proportion to 
thofe of the ox or fheep, yet they come 
eafier. There is lefs trouble and ex- 
pence in thefe creatures, even than in 
rabbits. Indeed they in a manner take 
care of themfelves ; feeding at the beft 
upon the fcatterings of the barn, with 
lii tie affif lance; and maintaining them- 
felves even where there is not this 
help, by their own care, with very lit- 
tle affiftance. 

Fowls are therefore a ftock the poor- 
eft may keep, and fuch as the richeft 
need not to negle£t ; they are univer- 
fal, and they very well deferve to be 
fo ; and are a comfort to the peafant, 
while they add their profit, though 
fmall not inconfiderable, to the gene- 
nil purfe of the wealthy farmer. 

The hufoandman is therefore to pro- 
vide himfelf with cocks and hens as a 
material part of his ftock, and he need 
not be afraid of over-doing in this ar- 
ticle; for thefe are not like thofe crea- 
tures, numbers of which require great 
attendance, and rich pafturage : a very 
confiderable quantity of thefe will pro- 
vide for themfelves in his yard, and at 
the barn door, for the greateft part of 
the year, without doing him- any da- 
mage, and will be fupported during 
the' remainder, at a very fmall ex- 
pencc. 

The advantages they afford in return 

E e z for 



CHI 



C H I 



for tliis are very confiderable in their 
kind, when the number is large ; and 
they are in a manner continual : they 
are a conflant fupply for the provifion 
of his family ; and as conftant for the 
market ; where, according to their 
management, they afford a larger or 
fmaller price. 

The value of every thing rifes in 
proportion to the demand there is for 
3", and on this will depend the parti- 
cular directions that are to be £,iven 
to the farmer in this article. The 
great demand for fowls is in large 
towns, therefore the careful provider 
oujht to proportion the quantity ef 
thefe he keeps to his fituation. If he 
li\ein a lone place, it will not be worth 
h s while to keep more than will ferve 
for h'sown family's fupply, and for a 
few of his neighbours who may pur- 
chafe of him: but if he be fituated near 
a market town, efpecially if within a 
due diflance fiom London, he may 
flock himfelf as largely as he pleafcs ; 
2nd the greater number the more the 
profit; for there is there a conftant 
and good market throughout the whole 
year, for one kind or other in this w*y, 
either eggs, pullets, chickens, or ca- 
pons, going eff at a good price the 
whole year. 

Additionally to this, which is the 
greater confideration, he has the letter 
article o( their feathers; and he has 
alfo the dung, which ia very rich. 

The hufbindman therefore, by this 
confideration, w 11 be led to the fixing 
Upon a proper number of this kind of 
flock and after that, he is to acquaint 
himfelf with the choicebefore he nukes 
his purchafe, A great deal depends 
upon the fit ft choice in all thefe cafes : 
the whole brood to come is to be of the 
feme kind with thefe, which are the 
general parents. 

The induftry and curiofity ofthofe 
v^ h j oictd p ultry of this fpecies for 
their pleafure or profit, have of late 
years greatly multiplied what are called 
eeds : but thefe differences' are 
pot fo great as many imagine. They 
arift horn f.iiall difiinclions, and will 
fomctimes go urf in the continuance. 
Between the Parkin? fowl, and the 
little bantam breed, there are n:any 
^e"g.-:es ;n h.'jr.sfs ; and the game breed 
is . ^together diitinct from all thefe ; 
a'nfwering the purpofes of the fportf- 
pans act cf the farmer, 



Among the fever al breed s we would 
advife the huTBandman tdchufe, not 
fixing himfelf to one in particular ac- 
cording to what he fuppofes to be its 
value above the reft, but confidering 
which will beft anfwer the demand he 
?s like to have for the produce. In 
fome meafure, indeed, he is to be guided 
in this by the circumflances of his 
farm; as in the choice of his oxen 
and fheep, by the richnefj of his pa- 
flurcs. He who has a good barn 
door, and a rich yard, will be able to 
keep a proper quantity of the largeft 
breed of thefe fowls in health aiVcTvi- 
gour: the common or fmaller kind 
will fucceed beft with the peafant or 
the poorer farmer; for they will fup- 
port themfelves by running about the 
roads and hedges, in a great meafure; 
eating infects, feeds, and whatfoever 
can afforcPaTliving creature nourish- 
ment. 

Thus upon thefe two confederations 
of the food and the demand, taken to- 
gether, the hufbandman, of whatfoever 
rank, will be able to know which of 
thofe feveral breeds, that are now fo 
common in all places, it will be his 
intereft to take. 

Whichsoever kind he fixes on, let 
him obferve thefe marks of good- 
nefb in the particular fowls he buys, 
and guide himfelf by them in the 
choice. 

Let the cock be large for his kind, 
full bodied, well fhaped, and lively ; 
tie cock is naturally an upright, ftate- 
ly, and majeilic bird ; and when he 
appears without thefe characters, it is 
a proof that fomething is amifs. The 
cock that does not flrut, is not fit for 
the father of a brood. He fhould be 
long in the body, and thick in the 
garth. His reck fhould be long and 
na urally arched, free in its motion?, 
arid well covered with feathers. His 
comb and watles fhould be large, and 
of a bright recT^ his eyes full and 
fprightly, and their colour anfvverable 
to that of his feathers, which is a great 
beauty in the cock, and a mark of a 
right and true breed. His beak fhould 
be ftrong and hooked, his legs flout 
and flurdy ; his fpurs long and fharp, 
and his claws fhort and ftrong. Thefe 
are the marks of a good cock, of what- 
foever breed. Some have made ~ great 
deal of ths colour, but the two beft 



CHI 



C II I 



are the red and the v. -hire, of which 
the red is 'fitted tor a fhout breed, and 
the white for a more delicate. 

In the clio.ce of a hen, the fame ge- 
neral marks are to be obferved as in 
the cock, only her whole afpeft fhoeld 
be mild ab the cock is fturdy. She 
fhould be lively and well coloured; 
her claws fhort and flrong; but if fhe 
want the hinder claws, it is fo much 
the better, they often breaking the 
eggs in her fitting. 

When the cocks and hens are thus 
chofen, let them be well obferved as 
foon as they are put into the ground, 
for if any thing be amifs in them, that 
is the time to change ; and it is much 
better to fell the bad again, and buy o- 
thers, than to fit down content with 
fuch as are not of the bell kinds in e- 
very refpect ; the lofs attending this 
can be little, and is for once ; but the 
difadvantage cf having a bad kind is 
great and continual. 

The cock fhould be lively, hufy, and 
noify : he fhould be often crowing; 
and from time to time fcratching up 
the ground to turn up worms and o- 
ther tood for the hens. The hens 
fhould be lively, but quiet; a crow- 
ing hen is as much to be rejecled as a 
dumtTcock; for tl^fje are found by 
experience, neither to lay any quantity 
cf eggs, nor to fit well. 

Now if any of thefe faults appear 
in the fowls that are bought for the 
breeders of a flock, let fuch as have 
them be changed; and this done over 
and over again till fuch as are in every 
refpeel right, are fixed upon. 

The proportions of the two fexes is 
about one to ten : a fingle cock will 
ferve twelve or fourteen hens ; but 
the molt profitable way is to allow a 
cock to every tenof them; and this 
way they will breed to the fulleft ad- 
vantage. 

The yard being thus flocked with 
thefe poultry in proper number, of the 
fittefl kinds, and of the cljoicelt of the 
breed, the farmer is to confult the ma- 
naging them to the befl advantage for 
their breeding. 

The age is a confiderable article in 
this refpeel ; and he is to be. very care- 
ful in fuiting their employment to 
that : for it would be very ill hufban- 
dry to ftop the profitable laying of a 
young hen, by letting her upon her 
£rft eggs, when there are fuch as are 



fit for nothing elfe, and will do thi» 
better. 

As the youngefl hens are always 
the bell layers, and thofe advanced into 
years are the bell fitters, let thefe be 
managed feverally accordingly. And 
in both thefe refpecls the fanner is to 
have regaid to the feeding: for any 
cxtream is equally wrong, whether in 
excels, or in defedT. If they be flarved 
or kept too low, they will Want (trength 
and fpirits; ,.r.d it they be fed too 
high they will grow fat. A fat hen 
is always lazy, and will never lay well, 
norfit quietly. 1 he fei ding them mo- 
derately w »ile laying, or while fitting, 
is the right method. 

The belt f eafpn of the year for hens 
fitting, is fpring- a nd fu mmer ; the ear- ■ 
II--'; in fummer the better, and the firft 
months of fpring bell of all. Mai. i 
is the bed month for chicken to he 
hatched, ar:d the middle of I hat i .'■: th 
is tlie molt favourable time of the 
whole year. The hen fits only twenty 
days, fo from this account it wiinje ■ / "44 
eafy for the iiuibandman to know when 
to put her upon the eggs for the belt 
brood; that is, in the lad week of 
February ; and from that time he may 
continue breeding till the firll week in 
Odlober. 

The prudent hufbandman fhouid 
never fet a hen that is lefs than two 
years arid a half old ; from this time to 
five, or between five and fix years is 
the belt time of that creature's life for 
fitting, and producing chicken. The 
finelt broods will be obtained when 
thefe two cenfiderations are regarded 
together; that is, when a hen of a 
good breed, and of about three years 
old, is fet in the middle or end or Fe- 
bruary, upon a parcel of well-chofen 
eggs laid by a young hen of a good 
kind alfo, who has let no cock come 
near her but her own, that the breed 
may be kept entire. 

We have cbferved, that in order to 
the having a due quantity cf eggs, the - ^/ 
hen that lays mult be kept moderately : » / <3# I L> 
file muft be fed fo as to have health 
and vigour, and not to grow fat : but 
there is fomtthing to be faic! for the 
kind of food, as well as the quantity. 

The pretences of increafing the lay- 
ing of hens by particular diet, have 
been flighted byfome; but they have 
been fince confirmed upon the iepeau.l 
trials of others, and no argument can 
Hand 



CHI 



CHI 



,/tand againft experience. Many kinds 
of food have been prefcribcd for this 
purpcfe, but there are two moll au- 
thorized by experiment, theTe are buck- 
wheat and hemp-feed : the efftcl oT 
thefe is equal in refpedt of laying; but 
the one fattens, at the fame time the 
other does not, therefore the condition 
of the hen is to fix which is prefer- 
able. 

If fhe he inclined to fat, then buck- 
wheat muil not be given, becaufe 
while it tends to make her lay by its 
common virtue, it will alfo increafe 
her fat fo as to take her off: in this 
cafe hempfeed is the proper kind. On 
the other hand, when a hen is poor, 
the proper kind is 'buckwheat, for at 
the fame time that it inclines her to 
lay, it gets her into flefh. 

As to the number of eggs to be put 
under a hen for fetting, there have 
been different opinions ; but from 
what I have found from many trials, 
the beft number is feventeen. Let 
care be taken that they be frefh and 
found eggs, and let the upper fide of 
every cne of them be marked blue ; 
when the hen gets from her neit for 
feeding, or warning herftlf, let the 
whole number be carefully^examined 
to fee if fhe have tinned them ail, cr 
any of them. Such as fhe has not 
turned, the owner muft fee turned for 
her. And from this hewill know how 
to value her for fetting afterwards ; 
for the hen that turns all her eggs her- 
felf, is greatly preferable to thofe neg- 
ligent ones which omit that needful 
caution. 

Every good koufewife knows how 
to judge of the newnefs and found- 
r.iiV of her eggs by holding them up 
to the light, and feeing that they be 
full and clear. This is never fo ne- 
ceflary as in the choice of thofe eggs 
which are to be fet for hatching. 

When a hen is fet, (he mult never 
be difturbed againft her will ; and feme 
care muft be taken to fet her food and 
water. If fhe be put from the neft 
againft her will, fne often forfakes it 
entirely j and if the be obliged to go 
to k'.. lor food and drink, oftentimes 
fhe is obliged to be abfen; fo long in 
the fearch, that the eggs chill, and the 
chicken are kiiied in them. 

This care is needful during the v I: >! 
time cf ha- fetting, but is moll of all 
to be ibicllv observed toward the end 



of the period. The chicken are the» 
formed in the eggs, and they require 
the conftant warmth of the creature's 
body to keep them alive, a fmall time 
of chilling will utterly deftroy them. 

When the hen rifes from her eggs, 
efpecially at thefe times, to feed upon 
what is fet before her, the perfon who 
has the care of her, fhould ftir up the 
ftraw of her neit, and lay the eggs re- 
gularly together, that fhe may find all 
convenient and agreeable at her return. 

The cock is alfo to be watched upon 
thefe occafions, for when the hen is off 
her nelt, he will offer his fervice to fet 
for her, but he does this very auk- 
wardly, frequently breaking fome of 
the eggs ; and the hen is always dif- 
pleafed at it. Sometimes fhe will en- 
tirely fcrfake the nelt upon it. 

In the choice of eggs for fetting, if 
there be any larger than ufual, they 
are to be rejected, for they will net 
lie even, and will cool thofe that are 
next them. Thefe often have a double 
yolk, and they are the eggs which com- 
monly produce thofe monftrous or - 
misfhapen chicken, which fui prize the 
common people^ among the broods of 
this creature. 

As nothing more is required for the 
hatching of chickens than a due de- 
gree of heat, there has been long a 
cuftom in Egypt, of hatching them 
without the help of hens, in ovens, 
by means of a fmall and regular f»re. 
They in this manner produce vaft 
broods at a time. This cuftom has 
cf late been attempted to be brought 
into Europe; in France the celebrated 
Monfieur de Reaumur has made many 
expetiments, and at length with fome 
fuccefsi From the public account he 
gave of this, the fame has been at- 
tempted in England, and among other 
ingenious perfons, the honourable Mr. 
Stanhope tried it, and fucceeded : but 
there does not feem any probability of 
its being brought into common ufe; 
and indeed fo much nicety is required 
iri t he tiling itfelf, and fuch" a great 
deal of care of the chicken after they 
are hatched, that it appears rather fit 
for an amufementfor the curious, than 
an employment to the bufbandman. 
We have feen that it may be done ; and 
that is all that is worth our while to re- 
gard about it. 

If it happen' that a hen dies, or a 
brood become by anv accident mcther- 

lefs, 



CHI 



CHI 



lefs, the beft method Is to mix them 
among the ahicken of another hen 
that are about the lame age, and me 
will take care of all together. A hen 
may thus be brought to conduct and 
afiift three or four broods : and this is 
the moft favourable circumftance con- 
cerning the hatching of eggs by art ; 
but there is a limitation in the num- 
ber j and at prefent the attempt is not 
to be recommended to any on the 
foundation of utility and profit. 

Although we have fixed the fetting 
of the hen to the fummer and fpring 
months, it is not to be underfiood that 
they will not fet at other times. Eggs 
may be put under them at any feafon 
of the year, and they will hatch them ; 
and for thofe that chufe to beftow a 
fufficient time and attendance upon 
them, the winter broods may be worth 
railing, for they bear the beft price 
when they are grown up for fale in 
fpring. This, however, requires more 
trouble than the hufbandman can well 
beftow upon fo fmall an article in his 
.flock; and therefore it is we have re- 
commended the fettingof the hens in 
the end of February to any other time ; 
for a brood of March chicken will be 
worth near twice as much to him in 
this general way, as thofe of any other 
time. 

When the breed of chicken is the 
only care, the white fowls with white 
legs and white beaks are to be preferred 
to all others, becaufe of the whitenefs 
and natural tendernefs of their flefh, 
and their price on that account in t lie 
markets : but thefe are not the bell 
layers. 

Therefore if eggs be the principal 
care, the red cock and mottled hen 
are to be preferred. 

If- a hen that has been fed with buck- 
wheat to make her lay frequently, 
grow too fat upon that diet, fhe muft 
be fed with oats ; for they at the fame 
time that they take down her fat, affift 
her breeding of eggs. 

In all thefe articles of feeding, it is 
not intended that the fowl fhould be 
kept upon thofe things entirely. She 
mould be left to take fome care of her- 
felf abroad, for her ftirring about will 
do her fervice ; only what addition to 
her natural food b required to keep 
her in health and ftrength for laying, 
Should be of thefe kinds. 

We have led the hufbandman, or 



rather the good houfewife, (for this cars 
naturally falls upon her) from the pur- 
chafe of the ftock in this kind, to the 
hatching of the young brood : thefe 
are the moft effential as well as the 
moil valuable articles that fall under 
this head, and we fhall therefore lay 
down fuch rules for the breeding them 
up to the condition for market, as 
experience has fhewn are the moft 
ufeful. 

We have mentioned twenty days for 
the time the hen fets : this is the ear- 
lielt period at which an egg hatcRgs, 
and as fome are longer than others ac- 
cording to the thicknefs of the ftull, 
their place under the hen, or other ac- 
cidents, they fometimes are one and *— 
twenty, and fometimes two and twenty 
days. 

In this, patience is the remedy. 
There have been feveral ways propofed 
of affifting the hen in hatching, and 
the like, but they are foolifh and un- 
neceffary. All this is left to nature. 

In large broods efpecially, it often 
happens that fome_ chicken are thus 
hatched a c onfiderable time before the 
others , often one, and fometimes two 
days. In this cafe let the hen be 
watched to fee how fhe treats them, 
for if fhe be caieful, nothing better can 
be done than to leave them with her. 
But if fhe be reitlefs, and feem trou- 
bled with them, it will be beft to take 
them away. 

In this cafe let a little wool be put 
into the bottom of a fieve, and let 
them be fet in the reach of the warmth 
of the fire, if the air be chiljj and 
thus nurfed up till the hen has hatched 
the reft, and can take them under her 
care. During this time nothing is 
needful but to keep them warm, for the 
chicken in the two firft days requires 
no food. 

For the firft feeding of the chicken, 
the beft thing in tlVe" world is a mix- 
ture of white bread crumbs and fmall 
oatmeal. Let a quantity of thefe be 
mixed well together, and then put a 
part of it to fteep in milk, and keep 
the reft dry. Give the chicken a little 
of each fort at times, as they follow 
the hen. 

After they have thus got a lirue 
ftrength, they are to be fed with bread 
fteeped in milk, and then with barley- 
meal and cheefe-pa rings cut fmall, an 1 
the like, and the hen will by this time 
greatly 



CHI 



e h r 



greatle affid in the providing for them, 
though at the firft fhe can do little 
more for them, than the keeping them 
together, and nourifhing them by her 
warmth. 

In cool weather it is always bed to 
keep chicken -within doors, till they 
have got fome drength. At the word 
feafon, during the months we have re- 
commended lor breeding thefe crea- 
tures, they need not be kept within 
doors above ten or twelve days, after 
which they may be differed to go about 
abroad with the hen; and in the bet- 
ter feafons, the lefs of tlMS keeping 
them within will be neccfijry ; often 
fcarce at all. 

It is a veiy material thing to let 
the chicken, while they are young, 
hive good water, for they fall into half 
the diftafes to which they are fubjeel, 
from the being obliged to drink fueh 
as is foul, or any thing they can get at. 
By means of the food we have di- 
rected for young chicken ; and the 
them iirc,:d, fcalded w ith milk, 
and fome barley meal afterwards, they 
may be fattened up while they are un- 
der the hen. This is a very common 
practice in Ireland, and according to 
the common error of expreffion in 
that country, they call thefe fucking 
chicken. 

T\e mod general and ufeful time of 
fattening them is, at afomewhat more 
advanced growth. To this end, when 
the hen fori. ikes them, which (he al- 
ways does as fcon a-; they are fairly 
able to provide foi themfelves, they 
fhculd be taken up and put into coopSj 
in a darkiih place, and there fed for 
fourteen or riiteen days. Theifquiet- 
nefs affifts greatly to the fattening of 
them; and they will always be mod 
quiet where they have lead light. 

In thefe places they are to be fed in 
the manner that is called cramming, 
and tiie bed food is ordinary wheat 
four, made into a pafte with milk. 
This \a to be leaked in milk, and then 
broke into fmall pieces, which are to 
be pat down their throats, always wet- 
tiny (hem well in milk did, that they 
may go down eafily. 

Some prefer bailey meal to wheat 
for this puipofe; and others fpeak 
greatly of the meal of buck- wheat: 
ht!'. !;om many trials it appears, that 
buck-wheat meal does not anfwer 
well .dene. A little of it mixed with 



the wheat flour before it is made IntSI 
pade, may do very well j but too much 
is not profitable. 

CHICKLING PEA, [Latkyrus.] 
Chickling Vetch, or Eyerlading Peas. - 
There are many varieties of this plant 
cultivated in botanic gardens. 1'hey 
may be propagated by fowing the feeds 
in March upon a bed of light frefls 
earth, covering them about half an 
inch deep. But the bed method is, 
to make a fhallow drill in the ground, 
and then drop the feeds therein about 
fix inches didant ; thefe drills fhould 
be a foot alunder, for the convenency 
of hoeing and cleaning the ground be- 
tween them ; which mud conltantly 
be done, otherwife the weeds will over- 
bear and dedroy them : but thty will 
require no farther care, being very 
hardy plants, until the fpring follow- 
ing, at which time, (viz. in March) 
jud before they begin to fhoot, the 
roots fhould be carefully taken up, and 
tranfplanted where they aie to conti- 
nue, placing them at lead two feet a- 
funder, otherwife they will over-run 
each other, or whatever other plants 
dand near them. It the feafon mould 
prove dry, you mud give them fome 
water, to fettle the earth to their roots j 
which fhould be now-and-then repeat- 
ed, if it continue dry weather, until 
the plants have taken root : after 
which, they will require no farther 
culture but to keep them clear from 
weeds, and in the dimmer time to 
fupport them with diong dakes, other- 
wife they will trail upon the ground 
and rot the branches, and dedroy what- 
ever plants grow near them. 

Thefe plants are very proper to plant 
againd a dead hedge, where they will 
run over iT,~a'nd"F7Iiey be kept trained 
up, will cover it in the fummer, and 
in fuch places they will produce great 
quantities of flowers ; but if they are 
planted in a lower garden, they mud 
have a great deal of room, and in fum- 
mer fhould have very drong dakes 
placed down by them, to which they 
mud be clofely fattened, othcrwiie 
tliey will ramble and trail upon the 
ground, and appear very anfightly : 
for if the ground be good in which 
they are planted, and the roots are very 
drong, they will fometimes grow eight 
or ten feet high in a feafon, and pro- 
duce abundance of flowers, which are 
Ycry ornamental m bafons or pots of 
flowers. 



fer// 



C H O 



I 



flowers, to place in chimnies or other 
parts of large rooms. Thefe produce 
their flowers in June and July, and 
their feeds are perfected in Auguft ; 
their gieen leaves decay in autumn, 
and rife again the fucceeding fpring, 
their roots continuing good for many 
years : They delight moft in a light 
foil, not too dry nor over wet, but 
will grow in almoft any foil or Situa- 
tion, but beft in that which is expofed 
to the fun, 
f CHICK-WEED, [Alfine.] This 

•^ plant was emplo; ed by the ancients ex- 
ternally againft eryfipelatous and o- 
ther inflammatory diforders. Later 
■i , times have given it internally in hx- 
vT moptoes, as a reftorative in atrophies 
J^ and confumptions, and likewife as an 
.? antepiieptic. Some recommend for 
^ thefe purpofes the exprelfed juice to 
r» be taken to the quantity of an ounce ; 
^L others the dried leaves, in the dofe of a 
I dram; and others a water diftilled 
from them. But if any real benefit 
is expected from alfine, it ought to be 
vied liberally as food ; though even 
then, its effects would not be fuperior 
to thofe p{ more approved cuiinary 
herbs. t">< /3 ///«>- /^*«J. 

Berry-Bearing CHICK-WEED, 
\Cucuhalus.~\ This plant is of no great 
tife or beauty, it grows wild in Ger- 
many and the northern parts of Eng- 
land. 

CHINA ROOT. There are two 
forts of this root in the fhops, one 
brought from the Eaft-Indies, the o- 
ther from the Weft. They are both 
longifh, full of joints, of a pale red- 
difh colour, of no fmell, and very lit- 
tle tafte : the oriental, which is the 
moft efteemed, is ccnfidcrably harder 
and paler coloured than the other. 
Such mould be chofen as is frefh, clofe, 
heavy and upon being chewed ap- 
pears full of a fat unituous juice. 
China root was either unknown or dif- 
regatded by the ancient phyficians. It 
was firft introduced into Eui ope about 
the year 1535, with the character of a 
fpecific againft venereal and cutaneous 
diforders, and as fuch was rm-.de ufe 
of for fome time, but at length gave 
place to medicines of a more powerful 
kind It is generally fuppofed to pro- 
mote infenfible peifpiration and the 
urinary difcharge; and by its unctuous 
quality to obtund acrimonious juices. 
CHIN-SCAB. A fcabby difeafe in 
Vol. I. 



fheep, that runs on the fkin, and is 
commonly called of fhepherds, the 
Darters; which will kill them, if not 
remedied : it comes by negligence of 
the fhepherds, when theyfuffer them 
to teed on grafs covered with dew, 
which is evil. To cure it, 1. Take 
a little quantity of hyfTop and fait 
beaten together, and therewith chafe 
and fret the palate of the mouth, and 
all over the mouth; or efe with felf- 
heal and cinque foil, and warning the 
fcab with vinegar, afteiwaids anoint 
it with tar and hogfgreafe mixed to- 
gether. 2. Others ftamp cyprefs leaves 
in water, and therewith wafli the pa- 
late of the mouth, and the fores. 3. 
But as fome fhepherds take this fcab 
to be a kind of a pox, which will com- 
monly be as well on the briiket, as 
upon his chin, and fay, it is get by 
feeding after hog: that have the fwine 
pox ; they anoint it with tar and hogf- 
greafe melted together ; and if not 
helped in time, one fheep will infect 
the reft. 

To CHIT, to fprout, fhooting forth 
for growth, applied 'to corn, 

CHIVES, [Cepa fe&itis juncifolia pe- 
renr.h.] A fmall fort of onions which 
never produce any bulbs, and are pro- 
pagated by parting the roots. 

CHOCOLATE-NUT, the fruit of 
the cocca tree. 

CHOLER., a diftemper incident to 
fheep, in fummer, being known by the 
yellownefsof the fkin : To cure which, 
ftamp a lew elder leaves, flrain them 
with ale, and give the fame warm, 

CHOLIC. The cholic, fret, or gripes, 
which, in the farriers terms, though 
very injudicio^ fly, is meant to fignify 
moft of the difeafes of the guts, is no 
other than the pain that accompanies 
all the particular diforders thefe parts 
are liable to. 

Hoifes are feldom or never troubled 
with any other adflriclion in their 
bowels, excepting what proceeds from 
the dung hardening and cbflrudting 
thofe palTages; and when the matter 
is pent up in thefuft pafiages, to wit, 
in the ftomaeh and guts, and putrifies 
there, the juices turn four, vifcid, and 
ropy, and fret the tender membrane 
which covers the iofide of the guts; 
by the vifcidity alfo the wind is in- 
tangled, which creates a fwcliing and 
diftention, fo that the belly becomes 
hard like a drum; and If the excre- 
F f ments 



CHO 



C H O 



ments be very much hardened In tlie 
great or ftreight gut, they caufe a pref- 
fure upon the neck of the bladder, 
and hinder the paffages of the urine, 
that a horfe cannot pifs; fometimes 
the fundament fwells, and all towards 
the fheath, which is very dangerous. 
A horfe in this condition muft needs 
be in great pain, and even in danger of 
his life, if a fpeedy relief is not had ; 
therefore, in order to the cure, after 
he has been raked, and with a great 
deal of caution, the following clyfter 
ought to be injected : 

*' Take the leaves of mallows, marfh- 
mallows, and mercury, of e.ich three 
handfuls, boil them in three quarts of 
w?ter for the fpace of half an hour ; 
to the (trained decodtion add lenitive 
electuary four ounces, fpirit of wine 
or brandy half a pint, oil or butter 
half a pound." Let this be injected 
lukewarm, and retained as long as 
poffible. 

Four hours after the operation of 
this clyfter, if the horfe is not very 
much relieved, the following may be 
given : 

" Take leaves of mallows and marfli- 
mallows, of each three handfuls, as 
above directed, linfeed and fcenugreek 
feeds, of each two ounces, coriander 
feeds, cummin feeds, and anifeeds,of 
each two drams, bay-berries, cubebs, 
and Jamaica pepper, of each one 
dram. Let thefe alf© be boiled for 
the fpace of half an hour, or be in- 
fufed in boiling water for two hours ; 
and to the decoction add four ounces 
of emetic wine." Let this be given 
as the former; and by the help of 
thefe, the adftriction of the bowels, 
or the coftivenefs, may be removed. 

But if the horfe has, along with his 
coftivenefs, violent cholic pains, pro- 
ceeding from wind and phlegm; after 
the groffer excrements are difcharged, 
the following clyfter may be given. 

" Take red-rofe leaves two hand- 
fuls, tops of centaury the lefs, and 
wormwood, of each one handful. 
Boil them in two quarts of water to 
three pints ; and in the decoction dif- 
folve two ounces of diafcordium, and 
half a pint of treacle water, or fpirit 
of wine. 

This will infallibly take off the pain, 
and lie in the bowels like a cordial, 
without giving him the leaft motion to 
dung, but compofe and lull hit fpirits, 



and In a minute take off the violent 
gripes ; if the pain fhould chance to 
return, the fame may be repeated ; and, 
if neceffary, the dofe of the diafcor- 
dium may be enlarged to three ounces 
or more ; and there is hardly any kind 
of cholic pain but what may be car- 
ried off by it. 

Cholicks and griping pains in the 
bowels of hoi fes become fuddenly - 
mortal, that without any regard to 
other circumftances, they ought im- 
mediately to be removed ; and if cof- 
tivenefs happens to continue upon 
the ufe of the remedies that are pre- 
fcribed for that purpofe, that fymp- 
tom will of courfe go off in the fequel 
of the cure; for after the moft urgent 
fjmptoms are removed, the next in- 
tention muft be to deflroy the caufe 
of the di (temper, otherwife it may re- 
turn again. 

Wherefore we recommend gentle 
purging, with the ufe of fuch things 
as are hot and penetrating ; and this 
we do contrary to the opinion, though 
net altogether to the practice, of moft 
farriers, who believe coftivenefs to pro- 
ceed from inward heat; whereas that 
heat is only the effect of coftivenefs 
and not the caufe, as is eafily demon- 
ftrated, and is occafioned chiefly by in- 
digefted matter in the ftomach and 
guts, which binds up the excrements; 
which, when the guts are full and 
prefled upon, caufe hear ; therefore 
as all hot fpicy things are proper to 
cut and deftroy thofe vifcidiiies which 
caufe the lentor, and harbour wind, 
they ought more or lefs to be exhibited 
in all intentions that are requifite to 
the cure of coftivenefs. The follow- 
ing purge may, for that reafon, be gi- 
ven, and will be found very profitable, 
after the violence of the cholic pains 
are over, and the obftinate ftoppages 
of the bowels are removed. 

" Take mallows and marfh-mal- 
lows, of each one handful, roots of 
marfh-mallows fix ounces, leaves of 
fenna two ounces, bay-berries and ju- 
niper-berries, of each an ounce. Boil 
them in three pints of water to one 
quart, ftrain out the decoction through 
a fieve or coarfe cloth, and add two 
ounces of fyrup of buckthorn." Or 
this : 

" Take mallows and marfh-mal- 
lows, of each two handfuls, fenna one 
ounce, jalap in grofs powder half an 
ounce, 



C H O 



C H O 



eunce, carraway feeds, an ounce 
and a half. Boil them in the fame 
quantity of water as above directed, 
to the consumption of a third part; 
and in the drained decoction diffolve 
four ounces of manna." Or the fol- 
lowing : 

" Take eight ounces of manna, two 
ounces of cream of tartar, diffolve 
them in a quart of fu-eet whev, and 
add eight ounces of the oil of olives." 

Either of thefe may be made ufe of 
after clyfters have been injected, the 
horfe (being kept from feeding two 
hours before and two hours thereafter. 
He may then be walked abroad for the 
fpace of an hour ; and upon his re- 
turn it would not at all be amifs if 
there was tripe-broth prepared tor him 
ftrewed with oatmeal ; and if he feems 
unwilling to drink it, he may have 
two or three quarts administered 
through a horn, and the fame quan- 
tity repeated two hours after. 

Thefe will help the operation of the 
phyfic, loofen, and wafh down the vif- 
cid flimy matter, which not only fet- 
ters ihe excrements, but intangles the 
wind, which caufes violent exceffive 
pain, by its prelfure and diftencion of 
the colon : But if the horfe be of fmall 
value, and it is not worth while to 
be at all this expence and trouble a- 
bout him, the following purging 
drench may be made ufe of. 

" Take mallows and marfh-mal- 
iows, of each two handfuls, or four 
handfuls of common mallows (ifmarfh- 
mallows are not to be had) jalap in 
powder two ounces, anifeeds, or fen- 
nel feeds, an ounce. Boll them as be- 
fore directed, and add to the decoction 
four ounces of common treacle." 
Or this: 

" Take half an ounce of the bitter 
apple in powder, three drams of aloes, 
and one dram of diagridium ; make 
them into a ball with flour and butter." 
To be given as the farmer. 

If your horfe's fundament befwelled, 
which fometimes happens to that de- 
gree before raking and clyfters aread- 
miniftered, that "he cannot ftale, be- 
caufe when the excrements are hard- 
ened and pent up in the great or 
ftraight gut, that heing full, itpreffes 
upon the neck of the bladder, fo as 
to hinder the pafTage of his urine ; and 
if this fymptom does not wear off foon 
after thofe means have been ufed, re- 



courfe muft be had with all fpeed to 
thofe things that are proper to keep 
down inflammation, for which pur- 
pofe we recommend the ufe of the fol- 
lowing decoction : 

" Take o; red-rofe leaves two hand- 
fuls, boLvehem in a quart of water for 
the fpace of half an hour j add to the 
decoction a fmall quantity of brandy, 
fpirit of wine, or rum, and with a 
fpunge bathe his fundament and fheath 
often. 

This decoction fhould always be 
made as warm as he can bear it, and 
the fpirits mixt with it as often as it is 
ufed, viz. to every two parts of the de- 
coction add one of the fpirits. 

His yard ought alfo to be kept up to 
his belly with a gentle bandage, be- 
caufe the humours fall into it with a 
very eafy influx, as it is both a foft and 
dependtnt part, by which means the 
fwelling and inflammation are often, 
kept up, after the firft caufe is in a 
great meafure removed, and fometimes 
proves the occafion of a gangrene ; and 
therefore to keep that fufpended, the 
farrier or groom may take a piece of 
canvas, fix or eight inches broad, and 
fixing two ftraps to each corner for- 
wards, they may be brought one on 
each fide over his flanks, and fattened 
upon his reins, the hind parts fhould 
have the corners cut off. according as 
the fwelling happens to be more or 
lefs on the upper part of the yard, 
with one fingle piece of ftiong tape 
flxt to it, which coming through be- 
tween his hips, is to be brought over 
the croup, and tied to the other two j 
and when this accident happens to a 
ftone-horfe, his ftones ought alfo to 
be fufpended in a bag of foft flaxen 
cloth, which may eafily be flxt to the 
other. 

By this means the return of the 
blood will be rendered very eafy, and 
the fwelling will thereupon affwage, 
which, for want of fuch a method, has 
fometimes been the caufe of fudden 
death. 

It will be very neceffary, after the 
preceding means have been complied 
with, and the moft urgent fymptoms 
are removed, to adminifter fuch things 
as are neceffary to deftroy the remains 
of thofe vifcidities ; for which pur- 
pofe the following powder, to the 
quantity of a fpoonful. may be given 
every morning : 

F f 2 " Tak* 



C H R 



C I N 



" Take gentian and birthwcrt-roots, 
cf each four ounces, galanga), zedoary, 
and calamus aromaticus, of each one 
ounce, the tops oi dried wcmwood 
and ihe leiTer centaury, of each an 
ounce and a half, nutmegs, ginger, 
black pepper, and bay-ber a ps, of each 
half an ounce. Make them into a 
fine powder, and keep it in a glals or 
gallipot clofe covered." 

This may be given in white wine, 
ale, or in a dtcodlion wherein a hand- 
ful of rue has been boiled, letting 
him faft two_ hours before and one af- 
ter $ and if your horfe be of fmall va- 
lue, you may give him every day, a- 
mong a few oats, an ounce of anti- 
mony, and two ounces of flour of 
brimftcne; or you may make it up 
into a parte, with a little flour and 
butter, continuing it* ufe for the fpace 
of one week. 

Champt rue and garlick is alfo very 
ferviceable in this cafe ; but all reme- 
dies will prove the more fuccef ful if 
you give your horfe proper exercife ; 
and, indeed, that alone oftentimes 
proves fuffkient; for by exercife the 
whole body is fhook, and the lentor 
in the bowels and the exciements 
readily falls downwards to their expul- 
sion out of the body. 

A bottle of Jackfon's tin&ure given 
in fome warm ale has often done fer- 
vice. 

CHRISTMAS ROSE, [Helleborui 
Niger.] This grows wild in Swiffer- 
land, Auftrja, &c. and is propagated 
by parting its roots in autumn. It is 
Otherwife called Black Hellebore. 

CHRIST'S THORN, [Spina C/iriJii, 
Paliurus.] This plant grows natu- 
Tally in the hedges near Paleftine j it 
rifes with a pliant fhrubby ftaik to the 
height of eight or ten feet, fending out 
many weak (lender branches, garnifhtd 
with olive leaves placed alternately ; 
they have three longitudinal veins, and 
are of a pale green. The flowers come 
out at the wings of the (talk in cluf- 
ters, almolt the length of the young 
branches ; they are of a greenifh yel- 
low colour, and appear in June, and 
are fucceeded by broad, roundifh, 
buckler-fhaped feed-veffels, which 
have borders like the brims cf a hat, 
the foot-flalks being faftened to the 
middle, and have three cells, each con- 
fiwning one feed. 

This is by many perfons fuppoftd 



to be the plant from- which the crc\v» 
of thorns, which was put upon the 
head of our Saviour, was compofed j 
the truth of which is fupporteel by 
many travellers of credit, whe affirm, 
that this i. one of the moll c^,m non 
(hrubs in tiie country ol Judeaj and 
j o:n the phablenefs cf its "ranches, 
which ma) be eafily wrought into any 
figure, it may afford a probability. 

^Herb CHRISTOPHER, [Aetata.] 
This plant grows wild in feveiai parts 
of the north of England, but being of 
little beauty, is feldom cultivated in 
gardens, except by curious perfons for 
variety. 

CHURNING. See Butter. 

CIBOUlS. SeeCHiBouLi. 

Sweet CICELY, [Mynhis.] There 
are feveral forts of this plant in the 
gardens of the curious, but they are 
of little ufe or beauty. 

CICHORY. Wild fuccory. 

CINNAMON, [Cinnamomum.] This 
is a light, thin bark, of a reddifh co- 
lour, rolled up in long quills or canes ; 
of a fragrant, delightiul finell, and an 
aromatic, fwett, pungent tafte, with 
fome degree of aflringency. It is ge- 
nerally mixed with the Cafia bark : 
this laft is eafily diflinguimable by its 
breaking over fmooth, whilft cinna- 
mon fplinters ; and by its (limy muci- 
laginous tafte, without any thing of 
the roughnefs of the true cinnamon. 
Cinnamon is a very elegant and ufeful 
aromatic, more grateful both to the 
palate and ftomach, than moft other 
fubftanc.es of this clafs: by its aftrin- 
gent quality it likewife corroborates 
the vifeera, and proves of great fervice 
in feveral kinds of alvine fluxes, and 
immoderate difcharges from the ute- 
rus. An effential oi), a Ample and 
fpirituous diftilled water, and a tinc- 
ture of it, are kept in the (hops. 

The body of the tree is covered 
with the bark, which is at fir ft green 
and alterwards red, the leaf is not un- 
like the laurel. When firft unfolded, 
it is of a flame colour, but alter being 
expofed to the air, and growing dry, 
it changes to a deep green on the up- 
per furface. and to a lighter on the 
lower. The flowers are fmall and 
white, and grow in large bunches at 
the extremity of the branches, and 
have an agreeable frnell, not unlike 
tiie iiliy of the valley. The fruit is 
fhaoed like an acorn, but not fo large. 
CINQUE- 



CIS 



e i t 



CINQUEFOIL, [Argentina.] Called 
alfo filverweed or wild tanfey. This 
plant giovvs wild about the fides of 
rivulets and other moilt places : it has 
no lta.'k; the leaves lie flit on the 
ground. The writers on the materia 
medica in general look upon argentina 
as a very ftrong afhingent ; Boeihaave 
relates, that it equals in virtue the 
Peruvian bark ; Hoffman, that it pow- 
erfully reftrains alvine and other 
fiu\es ; Gecffroy, that it effectually 
flops haemotrhagies of every kind. 
Thefe virtues feem to have been at- 
tributed to this plant trom its agree- 
ment in botanic characters with tor- 
mentil, which is known to be a pow- 
erful ityptic. The fenfible qualities 
of argentina do not promife any fuch 
virtues : the leaves have a merely her- 
baceous tafte; the roots, a pleafant 
fweetifh one, like that of parfnips, 
but not fo (trong. 

CISTUS, Rsck Rcfe. There are no 
lefs than eighteen forts of this beauti- 
ful fhrub ; the varieties of which are 
very great ornaments to a garden ; their 
flowers are produced in great plenty all 
over the fhrubs, which though .but oi 
a fhort duration, yet are fucceeded by 
frefh ones almofl every day for above 
two months fucceffively. Thefe flow- 
ers are many of them about the big- 
nefs of a middling rcfe, but fingle, and 
of different colours ; the plant conti- 
nues green throughout the year. 

The forts may all be propagated, 
by fowing their feeds upon a gentle 
hot bed, or on a warm border in the 
common ground in March ; and when 
the plants are come up about three 
inches high, they fhouldbe tranfplant- 
ed either into fmall pors, or a border 
of good light earth, at about ten inches 
diifance every way : if they are planted 
into pots, they fhould be removed un- 
der a common hot-bed frame in win- 
ter, to defend them from the froft, 
which may be hurtful to them while 
young, if they are not protected from 
it ; but they fhould have as much o- 
pen free air as pofiible in mild wea- 
ther, and will require to be often re- 
frefhed with water. 

In the fpring following, thefe plants 
may be turned out of the pots, with 
all the earth preferved to their roots, 
and planted in the places where they 
are to remain, (for they ate bad plants 
to remove when grown old} observing 



to give them now and then a little 
water, until they have ' taken frefh 
roots; after which time they -ill re- 
quire no farther care than to train 
them upright in the manner you would 
have them grow : but thofe plants 
which were at firil pLnted into a bor- 
der in the open ground, fhould be 
aiched over, and covered with mats in 
frofty weather, during thefirit winter, 
but may be tranfplanted abroad the 
fucceeding fpring : in removing of 
thefe plants, you fhould be careful to 
preferve as mu;h earjh about their 
roots as you can ; and if the feafon 
fhould prove hot anc 1 dry, you muft 
water and fharle them, until they have 
taken frefh root ; after which they will 
require no other culture than was be- 
fore directed. 

From this tree growing in the Ar- 
chipelago, the Creeks gather the gum 
labdantim. 

Dwarf CISTUS, [Reliant hemum.] 
There are many fpecies of this plant 
growing in England, Portugal, Italy, 
France, and America, fome of which 
are perennial, others annual ; they are 
all propagated by feeds fown in March, 
or cuttings planted in May. 

CITRON, [Cirrus.] The fpecies 
are, i. Citron with a large, oblong, 
pointed fruit, having a thick rough 
rind ; or Sweet Citron. 2. The com- 
mon Citron. 

There are feveral other varieties of 
this fruit, with which the Englifh gar- 
dens have been fupplied from Genoa, 
where is the great nurfery for the fe- 
vetal sparts of Europe for this fort, as 
alfo Orange and Lemon trees. 

The feveral forts of Citrons are cul- 
tivated in much the fame manner as 
the Orange tree, to which we fhall re- 
fer the reader to avoid repetition ; but 
fhall only remark, that thefe aie fome- 
what tenderer than the Orange, and 
fhould therefore have a warmer fitua- 
tion in winter, otherwife they are very 
fubjec~r to caft their fruit. They 
fhould alio continue a little longer in 
the houfe in the fpring, and be carried 
in again (boner in the autumn. And 
as their leaves are larger, and their 
fhoots ftronger than thofe of the O- 
range, they require a little more wa- 
ter in the (u'rnrner; but in the winter 
they fhould have little water at each 
time, which muft be the oiter.er re- 
peated. 

The 



C I T 



C L I 



The common Citron is much the 
beft ftock to bud any of the Orange or 
Lemon kinds upon, it being the (trait- 
eft and freeft growing tree ; the rind is 
fmoother, and the wood lefs knotty 
than either the Orange or the Lemon, 
and will take either fort full as well as 
its own kind, which is what none of 
the other forts will do : and thefe 
flocks, if rightly managed, will be very 
ftrong the fecond year after fowing, 
capable to receive any buds, and will 
have flrength to force them out vigo- 
roufly ; whereas it often happens, 
when thefe buds are inoculated into 
weak (locks, they frequently die, or 
remain till the fecond year before they 
put out; and thofe that (hoot the 
next fpring after budding, are often- 
times fo weak as hardly to be fit to 
remain, being incapable to make a 
ftrait handfome ftem, which is the 
great beauty of thefe trees. 

CITRUL, or Water Melon, [Angu- 
rir.a.'] Of this there are feveral vaiie- 
ties, which differ in the form and co- 
lour of their fruit. But as thefe vary 
annually from feeds, fo it is needlefs 
to enumeiate tbem here. 

The fruit is cultivated in Spain, 
Portugal, Italy, and moft other warm 
countrits in Europe ; as alfo in Afri- 
ca, Afia, and America, and is by the 
inhabitants of thofe countries greatly 
efleemed for their wholefome cooling 
quality: but in England the fruit i« 
not fo univerfally efteemed, though 
there are fome few perfons who are 
very fond of them. 

To have this fruit good, you muft 
firfl provide yourfelf with fome feeds 
which fhould be three or four years 
old, for new feeds are apt to produce 
vigorous plants, which are feldom fo 
fruitful as thofe of a moderate ftrength. 
The beft forts to cultivate in England 
are thofe with f.'iiall round fruit, which 
come from Aftracan, for thofe with 
very large fruit feldom ripen in this 
climate. Having provided yourfelf 
with good feed, you may fow it in the 
hot-bed for early cucumbers; then 
you fhould prepare a heap of new 
dung the beginning of February, 
which fhould be thrown in a heap for 
about twelve days to heat, as is prac- 
tifed for early cucumbers. When the 
dung is of a proper temper, the bed 
fhould be made in the fame manner as 
for the Mufk Melon, covering the 



dung about five inches thick with 
loamy earth ; for the plants may be 
raifed fit to plant out for good, in the 
fame manner as the early cucumbers, 
fo the bed here mentioned is where 
they are to remain for good. But as 
thefe plants require much more room 
than either cucumbers or common 
melons, fo there fhould be but one 
plant put into a three-light frame ; 
therefore a hill of the fame loamy 
earth fhould be raifed a foot and a 
half high in the middle light of each 
frame, into which, when the bed is of 
a proper temper for heat, the plants 
fhould be carefully plamed, obferving 
to water and (hade them until they 
have taken good root. 

After thefe plants are placed in thefe 
beds, you muft be careful to admit 
frefh air to them, by raifing of the 
glaffes in proportion to the weather; 
and as their branches extend you 
fhould lead the moots as they are pro- 
duced, fo as to fill each part of the 
frame, but not to croud each other, 
and be careful to keep them clear from 
weeds ; they mult alfo be frequently 
watered, but do not give it them in 
great quantities. In fhort, there is 
little difference to be obferved in the 
management of thefe, from that of 
mufk melons, but only to give them 
more room, earthing the beds to the 
fame depth, and adding to the fides of 
the beds for the roots of the plants to 
run into it, and to keep the beds to a 
good temperature of heat ; and whea 
the fruit appears, to admit air freely 
to the plants, in order to fet their 
fruit ; but when the nights are cold, 
the glaffes muft be covered with mats 
to keep the beds warm, without which 
this fruit will feldom come to be good /j 
in this country. C)K Y - •>£«- t>?Jr. 

CLIMBERS, or Virgins Bower, 
[Clematis.] Of this plant there are 
feveral fpecies, and of different co- 
lours, as blue, purple, red, &c. as alfo 
fingle and double flowers, and are all 
eafily propagated by laying down their 
branches ; for although the fingle 
flowers do fometimes produce feeds in 
England, yet as thefe feeds, when fown, 
remain a whole year in the ground be- 
fore they vegetate, fo the other being 
the more expeditious method of in- 
creafing thefe plants, is generally prac- 
tifed : but in order to fucceed, thefe 
layers fhould be put down at a diffe- 
rent 



C L I 



C L O 



tent feafon from the former ; for when 
they are layed in the autumn, their 
(hoots are become tough, fo do rarely 
put cut roots under two years; and 
after lying fo long in the ground, not 
one in three of them will have made 
good loots, fo that many have fuppofed 
thefe plants were difficult to propa- 
gate; but fince they have altered the 
feafon of doing it, they have found 
thefe layers have fucceeded as well as 
thofe of other plants. 

The beft time for laying down of 
the branches is in July, foon after they 
have made their firft fhoots, for it is 
the young branches of the fame year 
which do freely take root ; but as 
thefe are very tender, and apt to 
break, fo there mould be great care 
taken in the operation : therefore thole 
branches from which thef- j flioots are 
produced,, fhould be firlt brought 
down to the ground, and fattened to 
prevent their rifing ; then the young 
flioots fhould be laid into the earth, 
with their tops raifed upright, three 
or four inches above ground ; and af- 
ter the layers are placed down, if the 
furface of the ground be covered with 
mofs, rotten tanners bark, or other 
mulch, it will prevent the ground from 
drying, fo that the layers will not re- 
quire watering above three or four 
times, which fhould not be at lefs than 
five or fix days interval ; for when 
thefe layers have too much wet, the 
tender moots frequently rot, or when 
the young fibres are newly put out, 
they are fo tender as to perifh by hav- 
ing much wet : therefore where the 
method here directed is pradtifed, the 
branches will more certainly take root 
than by any other yet praclifed. 

As thtfe plants have all of them 
climbing branches, fo they fhould be 
always planted where they may be 
fupported, otherwife the branches will 
fall to the ground and appear unfight- 
ly; fo that unlefs they are properly 
difpofed, inftead of being ornaments 
to a garden, they will become the re- 
verfe. When there are arbours or feats 
with trellis-work round them, thefe 
plants are very proper to train up a- 
gainft it ; or where any walls or other 
fences require to be covered from the 
fight, thefe plants are very proper for 
the purpofe; but they are by no means 
proper for open borders, nor do they 
""fyyer t he expectation when they 



are intermixed with fhrubs ; for uft« 
lefs their branches have room to ex- 
tend, they will not be productive of 
many flowers. 

The fort with double flowers is the 
moft beautiful, fo that fhould be pre- 
ferred to thofe with fingle flowers, of 
which a few only fhould be planted 
for variety. They are all equally hardy, 
fo are feidom injured by froft , except- 
ing in very fevere winters, when fome- 
times the very tender fhoots are killed j 
but if thefe are cut off in the fpring, 
the ftems will put out new fhoots. 

GIVES. See Chives. 

CLARY, [Sc.'area Hcrminum.] The 
name of a plant, of which there are 
great varieties found in different parts 
of Europe, in the Canary iflands, and 
Mexico. The leaves have a warm 
bitterifh pungent tafle ; and a ftrong, 
not very agreeable fmell : the touch 
difcovers in the leaves a large quan- 
tity of glutinous or refinous matter: 
they are principally recommended in 
the fluor albus, and other female 
weakneffes, in hyfleric diforders, and 
in flatulent colics. /? 

CLIVERS, [Afarine.] This is a S&*. %*/? 
flender rough plant, growing very —/ji/r fi' 
frequently to the length of four or five v " 
feet when hanging on a hedge. It is 
recommended as an aperient, and par- 
ticularly ufeful as an antifcorbutic. , - 

CLOTBUR. Burdock. Ctcj WACx/ * * 

CLOUDBERRY, a fpecies of bram- /3/£ c /£ 
ble, growing in the north of England 
and Scotland. 

CLOVE, [Caryophylla Aromatka.] 
Cloves are the flower cups (not as is 
generally fuppofed the fruit) of a bay- 
like tree, glowing in the Eaft-Indies. 
In fhape, they fomewhat refemble a 
fhort thick nail: in the infide of each 
clove are found a Aylus and fUmina 
w/th their apices, as in other flower 
cups : at the larger end moot out from 
the four angles four little points like a 
ftar, in the middle of which is a round 
ball, compofed of four little leaves, 
which are the unexpanded petala of 
the flower. Cloves have a very ftrong 
agreeable aromatic fmell, and a bit- 
terifh pungent tafle, almofl burning 
the mouth and fauces. The Dutch, 
from whom we have this fpice, fre- 
quently mix with it cloves which have 
been robbed of their oil : thefe, though 
in time they regain from the others a 
confiderable fhare both of tafle and 
Jfrnell, 



C L O 



CLO 



fmell, are eafily diftinguifhable by their 
weaker flavour and lighter colour. 
Cloves, confidered as medicines, are 
very hot Simulating aromatics, and 
polfefs in an eminent degree the gene- 
ral virtues of fubftanccs ot this clafs. 
An exit-aft made fo;n them with lec- 
tified fpiit is exceffivtly hot and pun- 
gent;' the diftiikd oil has no great 
pungency ; an extract made with wa- 
ter is naufeous and fomewhat ftypric. 

CLOVE GILLIFLOWEK, or July 
Flonuer. See Carnation. A great 
variety of thefe flowers are met with 
in our gardens -. thofe made ufe of 
in medicine ought to be of a deep 
crimfon colour, and a pleafant aroma- 
tic fmell, fomewhat like that of cloves ; 
many forts have fcarce any fmell at 
all. The caryophylla rubra are faid to 
be cardiac and alexipharmac -. Simon 
Paulli relates, that he has cured many 
malignant fevers by the ufe of a de- 
codtion of them ; which he fays pow- 
erfully promotes fweat and urine, 
without greatly irritating nature, and 
alfo raifes the fpirits, and quenches 
thirft. At prefcnt thefe flowers are 
chit-fly valued for their pleafant flavour, 
which is entirely loft even by light codti- 
on : hence the college direct thefyrup, 
which is the only officinal preparation 
of them, to be made by infufion. 

CLOVER, [Trifohum.] The fpe- 
cies are, i. The red or Dutch Clover. 
a. Trefoil with umbellated heads, pods 
having four feeds, and a creeping 
ftalk ; White Meadow Trefoil, Ho- 
neyfuckle grafs, or White Dutch Clo- 
ver. 3, Trefoil with ovjl imbricated 
fpikes of flowers, having deflexed per- 
manent flandards, naked empalements, 
and an erect ftalk j Yellow Meadow 
Trefoil, or Hop Clover. 4. Trefoil 
with imbricated fpikes of flowers, hav- 
ing deflexed permanent flandards, em- 
palements ftanding upon foot-flalks, 
and trailing ftalks ; the leaft Yellow 
Hop Trefoil, called None-fuch, or 
Black-feed. 5. Trefoil with oval 
fpikes of flowers, having leafy em- 
palements, an ereft hairy (talk, and 
fpear-fhaped leaves ; greater hairy 
Meadow Trefoil, with a wkitifh ful- 
phur or copper-coloured flower. 6. 
Trefoil with oblong, blunt, hairy fpikes 
of flowers without leaves, and roundifh 
lobes. 7. Narrow-leaved Spanifh 
Trefoil. 8. Trefoil with oblong, 
ecnical, hairy fpikes, having briltly in- 



dentures to the empalements, which 
are almoft equal, and linear lobes to 
the leaves 9 Trefoil with oval hoary 
fpikes, and btiltly indentures to the 
empalements, which are equal ; or 
Hare s foot Trefoil. 10. Trefoil with 
rou difh heads, refiexed bladder em- 
palements with two teeth, and a creep- 
ing ftalk; Strawberry Trefoil, 11, 
Trefoil with long naked bunches of 
pods containing two feeds, and an 
erect ftalk; or, common Melilot. iz, ■ 
Trefoil with long fpikes, half-naked 
acute-pointed pods, and an upright 
ftalk ; Sweet Melilot Trefoil. 

The firlt fort, which is well known 
in England by the title of Red Clover, 
needs no defcription ; this has been 
frequently confounded with the red 
Meadow Trefoil by the botanifts, who 
have fuppofed they were the famefpe- 
cies ; but thefeedsof both have been of- 
ten fown in the fame bed, which have 
constantly produced the two fpecies 
without varying. The ftalks of the 
Meadow Trefoil are weak and hairy ; 
the ftipula?, which embrace the loot- 
ftalks of the leaves, are narrow and 
very hairy ; the heads of flowers are 
rounder, and not fo hairy as thofe of 
the clover, whofe ftalks are ftrong, al- 
moft fmooth, furrowed, and rife twice 
the height of the other ; the heads of 
flowers are large, oval, and hairy ; the 
petal of the flowers open much wider, 
and their tubes are fhorter than thofe 
of the other ; but the clover has been 
fo much cultivated in England for near 
a hundred years part, that the feeds 
have been fcattered over many of the 
Englifh paltures, fo that there are few 
of them which have not clover mixed 
with the other graffes ; and this has 
often deceived the botanifts, who have 
fuppofed that the Meadow Trefoil has 
been improved to this by dreffing of 
the land. 

Since the red clover has been culti- 
vated in England, there has been great 
improvement made of the clay lands, 
which before produced little but rye- 
grass, and other coarfc bents, which, 
by being fown with red clover, have 
produced more than fix times the 
quantity of fodder they formerly had 
on the fame land ; whereby the far- 
mers have been enabled to feed a much 
greater ftock of cattle than they could 
do before, with the fame extent of 
ground, which has enriched the ground, 

and 



C L O 



C L O 



^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 




and prepared !t for corn ; Co where 
the land is kept in tillage, it is the 
ufual method now amongft the far- 
mers to lay down their ground with 
clover, after having had two crops of 
corn, whereby there is a conitSnt rota- 
tion of wheat, barley, clover, or tur- 
ners, on the fame land. The clover 
feed is generally fown with the barley 
in the fpring, and when the barley is 
taken off, the clover fpreads and co- 
vers the ground, and this remains one 
two years ; after which the land is 
ploughed again for wheat. 

The clover is a biennial plant, whofe 
roots decay after they have produced 
feeds ; hut by eating it down, or mow- 
ing it whin it begins to flower, it caufes 
the roots to fen'' out new fhoots, where- 
by the plant is continued longer than it 
would naturally do. The common al- 
lowance of feed for an acre of ground 
is ten pounds. In the choice of the 
feed, that which is of a bright yellow 
colour, inclining to brown, fhould be 
preferred, and the pale-coloured thin 
feed fhould be rejected. The clover 
feed fhould be fown after the barley 
is harrowed in, otherwife it will be 
buried too deep ; and after the feeds 
are fown, the ground fhould be rolled, 
which will prefs the feeds into the 
ground; But this fhould be done in 
dry weather, for moifture will often 
caufe the fteds to burft, and when the 
ground is wet the feeds will itick to 
the roll. This is the method which 
is generally praftifed by molt people 
in (owing of this feed with corn, but 
it will be much better if fown alone ; 
for the corn prevents the growth of 
the plants until it is reaped and taken 
off the ground, fo that one whole fea- 
fon is loft ; and many times, if there 
be a great crop of corn upon the 
ground, it fpoils the clover, fo that it 
is hardly worth ftanding ; whereas, 
when itisfown without any other feed, 
, the plants wiil come up moie equal, 
and come on much falter than that 
which was fown the fpring before un- 
der corn. 

Therefore, from many years trial, I 
would advife the feeds to be fown in 
Auguft, when the land is fo be laid 
for meadow : for as the ground is 
at that feafon warm, fo the firft mower 
of rain will bring up the plants, and 
thefe will have time erfbugh to get 
strength before the winter : and if fome 
- time in October, when the ground is 
Vol. I. 



not too wet, the clover be well rolled, 
it will prtfs the ground clofe to the 
roots, and caufe the plants to fend out 
more fhoots ; the fame fhould be re- 
peated in March, which will be found 
vtry ferviceable to the clover. The 
reafon of my preferring this feafon for i 
the fowing of the feed rather than the 
fpring, is, becaufe the ground is cold 
and wet in fpring, and if much rain 
fall after the feed is fown, it will 
rot in the ground ; and many times 
when the feed is fown late in the fpring, 
if the feafon fhould prove dry, the 
feed will not grow ; fo that Augull has 
been found the fureft feafon. 

By the latter end of May this grafs 
will be fit to cut, when there fhould 
be great care taken in making it ; for 
it will require a great deal n.ore labour 
and time to dry than common graf», 
and will fhrink into lefs compafs ; but 
if it be not too rank, it will make ex- 
traordinary rich food for cattle. The 
time of cutting it is when it be- 
gins to flower; for if it ftands much 
longer, the lower part of the ftems, 
and the under leaves, will begin to 
dry, whereby it will make a lefs quan- 
tity of hay, and that not fo wel Ifia- 
vcured. 

Some people cut three crops in one 
year of this grafs ; but the belt way is 
to cut but one in the fpring, ?nd leed 
it the remaining part of the year, 
whereby the land will be enriched, and 
the plants will grow much Itronger. 

One acre of this plant will feed as 
many cattle as four or five acres of 
common grafs; but great care fhould 
be taken of the cattle, when they are 
firft put into it, left it built them : 
to prevent which, fome turn them in 
for a few hours only at firft, and fo 
ftint them as to quantity ; and this by 
degrees, letting them at firft be only 
one hour in the middle of the day, 
when there is ro moifture upon the 
grafs, and fo every day fuffer them to 
remain a longer time, until they are 
fully feafoned to it ; but great care 
fhould be had never to turn them into 
this food in wet weather; or it they 
have been for fome time accuftomed 
to this food, it will be proper to turn 
them out at night in wet vveather,and 
let them have hay, which will pitvent 
the ill confequences of the clover; but 
there are fome who give flraw to their 
cattle while they are feeding upon this 
grafs, to prevent the ill effects of it ; 
G g which 



y 



c l a 



C L O 






which muft not be given them in the branches trail upon the ground, and 
field, becaufe they will not eat it where fend out roots from every joint, fo that 
there is plenty of better food. There it thickens and makes the clofeft fward 
are others who fo w rye grafs amongft of any of the fown graffes; and it is 
their clover, which they let grow to- 
gether, in order to prevent the ill con- 
sequences of the cattle feeding wholly 
on clover ; but this is not a commend- 
able way, becaufe the rye grafs will 
greatly injure the clover in its growth, 
and the feeds will fcatter and till the 
ground with bents 



the fweeteft teed for all forts of cattle 
yet known; therefore when br.d is 
defigned to be laid down for pafture, 
with intent to continue fo, it fhculd 
be fown with the feeds of this plant. 
The ufual allowance of this feed is 
eight pounds to one acre of land ; but 
this fhould never be fown with corn, 



Where the feeds are defigned to be for if there is a crop of corn, the grafs 
faved, the firft crop in thefpring fhould will be fo weak under it, as tobefcarce 






be permitted to ftand until the feeds 
are ripe, which may be known by the 
ftalks and heads changing to a brown 
colour; then it fhould be cut in a dry 
time; and when it is well dried, it 
may be houfed until winter, when the 
■ feeds fhould be threfhed out ; but if 
the feeds are wanted for immediate 
fowing, it may be threfhed before it 
be houfed or flacked ; but then it muft 
be well dried, otherwife the feeds will 
rot quit their hufks. 

It has been a great complaint a- 



worth Handing; but fuch is the covet- 
oufnefs of moft farmers, that they will 
not be prevailed on to alter their old 
cuftom of laying down their grounds 
with a crop of corn, though they lofe 
twice the value of their corn by the 
poornefs of the grafs, which will r:ever 
come to a good fward, and one whole 
feafon is alfo loft ; for if this feed is 
fown in thefpring without corn, there 
will be a crop of hay to mow by the 
middle or latter end of July, and a 
much better after-feed for cattle the 



mongft the farmers, that they could following autumn and winter, than 



not threfh out thefe feeds without 
great labour and difficulty ; which we 
take to be chiefly owing to their cut- 
ting the fpring crop when it begins to 
flower, and fo leave the fecond crop 
for feed, which ripens fo late in au- 
tumn, that there is not heat enough 
to dry the hulks fufficiently ; where- 
by they are tough, and the feeds ren- 
dered difficult to get out ; which may 



the grafs which is fown with corn will 
produce the fecond year. The feed of 
this fort may alfo be fown in autumn, 
in the manner before directed for the 
common red clover ; and this au- 
tumnal fowing, if the feeds grow 
kindly, will afford a good early crop 
of hay the following fpring ; and if, 
after the hay is taken off the land, the 



ground is well rolled, it will caufe the 
be entirely remedied by leaving the clover to mat clofe upon the ground, 
firft crop for feed, as hath been di- and become a thick fward. /a*. 

reeled ; and then the ground will be The feed of this white Dutch clo-- * "~ f- . 
ready to plough, and prepare for wheat ver is annually imported from Flan- /Ot/Jt- 
the fame year, which is another ad- ders, by the way of Holland, hom f/ji/f, 
vantage. » v " £-° • - whence it received the name of Dutch 

V/hen cattle are fed with this" hay, clover; not that it is more a native of 

that country than of this, for it is 
very common in moift paftures in e- 
very county in England ; but the feed 
was never collected for fowing in Eng- 
land rill of late years ; nor are there 



the beft way is to put it in racks, o 
therwife they will tread a great quan- 
tity of it down with their feet. This 
feed is much better for moft other cat- 
tle than milch cows, fo that thefe 






fhould rarely have any of it, left it many perfons at prefent here who fave 

prove hurtful to them ; though when this feed, although it may be done, if 

it is dry, it is not near fo injurious to the fame care as is praftifed for the 

any fort cf cattle as when green. red clover be taken of this fort ; there- 

The fecond fort grows naturally in fore it fhould be recommended to c 

moft of the paftures in England, and very farmer, who is defirous to im- 

is generally known among the country prove his land , carefully to fow an acre 

people, by the title of white Honey- or two of this white clover by itfelf 

Aickle. ~~~ ~~~ for feed, which will fave him the ex- 

This is an abiding plant, whofe pence of buying for feme years when 

the 



C L O 



C L O 



the price is great, and there will be 
no want of fale for any quantity they 
may have to fpare. 

The third fort grows naturally a- 
mong the grafs in moft of the upland 
paftures in this country; but the feed 
is frequently fold in the fhops by the 
title of Hop clover, and is by many 
people mixed with the other forts of 
clover and grafs feeds, for laying down 
ground to pafture. This grows with 
upiight branching ftalks about a foot 
high, garnifhed with trifoliate leaves, 
whofe lobes are oblong and heart- 
fhaped, but reverfed, the narrow point 
joining the foot-ftalks. The flowers, 
which are yellow, grow from the 
wings of the (talk, upon long foot- 
ftalks, collected into oval imbricated 
heads, having naked empalements, ly- 
ing over each other like fcales, fome- 
what like the flowers of hops, from 
whence this plant had the title of Hop 
clover. But there are two forts of 
this which grow naturally in England. 
The other, which is the fourth fort, is 
a much fmaller plant than this, and 
has trailing ftalks. The heads of the 
flowers are fmaller, and the flowers 
are of a deeper yellow colour ; thefe 
are not abiding plants, fo are by no 
means proper to be fawn, where the 
ground is defigned to continue in pa- 
fture ; but in fuch places where one 
or two crops only are taken, and the 
land is ploughed again for corn, it may 
do well enough when it is mixed with 
other feeds, though the cattle are not 
very fond of it green, unlefs when it 
is very young. The large fort is the 
rnoft profitable, but this is rarely to 

'• be had without a mixture of the fmall 
f~~~ kind, alfo of the fmaller Melilot , which 

- is commonly called None-fuch, or 
* y fometimes Black-feeds 3 for thofe who 
fave the feeds for fale, are feldom cu- 
rious enough to diftinguifh the forts ; 
but where the beauty of the verdure is 
confidered, there muft not be any of 
the feeds fown, becaufe their yellow 
heads of flowers are very unfightly a- 
mong the grafs ; and if it is in gardens, 
where the grafs is conftantly mowed, 
the flowers of thefe plants will come 
out near the root in fuch clutters, as 
to occafion large, unfightly, yellow 
patches ; and as the heads decay, they 
turn brown, and have a very difagree- 
able appearance. 
The fifth fort grows naturally on 



chalky lands in many parts of England ; 
and in fome countries the feed is fown 
after the fame manner as the common 
red clover, efpecially on chalky ground, 
where it will thrive, and produce a bet- 
ter crop than clover. The italks of 
this are hairy, and grow ere£l to the 
height of two feet or more, garnifhed 
with trifoliate leaves, ftanding upon 
long foot-ftalks, whofe lobes are longer 
than thofe of the red clover, and have 
no marks of white ; they are of a 
yellovvifh green colour, and are co- 
vered with foft hairs. The flowers 
grow in oval fpikes at the end of the 
branches ; they are of a pale copper 
colour; their petals are long and tu- 
bulous, but the brim is divided into 
two lips as the other forts. 

This is known by the tiile of Trefoil, 
in the places where it is cultivated ; 
but the feedfmen fell the Hop clover 
by that name, fo they make no di- 
ftindtion between this, the Hop clover, 
and None-fuch; therefore, by which 
of thefe three titles the feeds are 
bought, they often prove the fame. 
This fort of Trefoil is much culti- 
vated in that part of Effex which bor- 
ders on Cambridgefhire. 

The fixth fort grows naturally in 
Spain and Italy; this has upright 
Italks near two feet high, which are 
hairy, garnifhed with trifoliate leaves, 
having roundifh lobes, which are fawed 
at their points. The flowers are pro- 
duced ;it the top of the italk in long, 
obtufe, hairy fpikes, of a bright red 
colour, fo make a pretty appearance 
during their continuance. It is an 
annual plant, fo is not proper for 
fowing as fodder. 

The feventh fort is an annual plant, 
which grows naturally in the fouth 
of France and Italy; it rifes with a 
ftrong fmooth ftalk near three feet 
high, garnifhed with trifoliate leaves, 
whofe lobes are two inches and a half 
long, and near a quarter broad, ftand- 
ing upon long foot-ftalks, which are 
embraced by ltipulse or [heaths their 
whole length. The flowers are pro- 
duced at the top of the ftalks in ver^ 
long fpikes ; they are of a beautiful 
red colour, fo make a fine appearance; 
It flowers in July, and the feeds ripen 
in autumn. 

The eighth fort grows naturally in 
Spain and Italy ; this rifes with a /len- 
der itiff ftalk near two feet high,;gar- 

G g a nifhed 



CLO 



C L U 



nifhe<5 <sri«!i trifoliate leaves, whofe 
lobes are very narrow and hairy. The 
flowers are produced at the top of the 
ftalks in oblong conical fpikes ; the 
indentures of their empaiements end 
in long briftiy hairs, which are almoft 
equal in length; the fpikes are hairy, 
and the flowers of a pale red colour. 

The ninth fort is the common Ha' es- 
foot Trefoil, which grows naturally 
upon dry gravelly Ian ' in mod part's 
of England, and is a fuie indication of 
the fterility of the foil, for it is rarely 
feen upon good ground. This plant 
is feldom eaten by cattle, fo is unfit 
for pafture, and is only mentioned 
here becaufe it is fometimes ufed in 
medicine; it is an annual plant, whofe 
root decays foon after it has perfected 
feeds. 

The tenth fort grows naturally on 
arable land in many parts of England ; 
this has trailing ftalks, which put out 
roots at their joints. The leaves Hand 
upon long (lender foot-ftalks; the 
lobes are roundifh, and fawed on their 
edges ; the flowers are collected in 
roundifh heads, ftandjng upon flender 
foot-ft.ilks, which nft '-'o-.Tt the wings 
of the ftalks : thefe have bladdery em- 
palernents, which terminate in two 
teeth. When thefe lie on the ground, 
their globular heads, having a lirle 
blulh of red on their upward fide to- 
wards the fun, and the oilier part being 
white, have a great refemblance of 
itrawberries, and from thence it was 
titled Strawberry Trefoil. 

Thefe forts are preferved in botanic 
gardens for variety ; they are eafily 
propagated by feeds, which may be 
fown on an open bed of ground, ei- 
ther in autumn or fpring. The plants, 
which come up in autumn, will grow 
much larger, and flower earlier in the 
fummer than thofe which are fown in 
the fpring, fo from thofe good feeds 
may be always obtained, whereas the 
others fometimes mifcarry. When 
the plants come up, they require no 
other care than to keep them clean 
from weeds, and thin them where they 
are too clofe. 

The eleventh fort is the common 
Melilot, which is ufed in medicine; 
it grows naturally among the corn in 
many parts of England, particularly 
in Cambridgeihive in great plenty, 
where it is a moil troublefome weed, ; 
Iqx in reaping it is ftarce pollible to 



feparate it from the Melilot, fo that it is 
carried in v. ith r .::c corn ; and the feeds 
of the Melilot being ripe about the 
fame time with the com, they are 
threfhed out with it, and being htavy 
aic difficult to feparate from it ; and 
when a few of the feeds are ground 
with the corn, it fpoils the flour, for 
the bread, or whatever elfe is made 
with it, will have a ftrong tafte like 
Melilot pialter. 

The roots of this plant are ftrong 
and ligneous, from which fpring out 
feveral (talks, which rife from two to 
four feet high, according to the gcod- 
nefs of the land. The (talks branch 
out, and are garr.ifhed with trifoliate 
leaves, having oval fawed Iobe>, of a 
deep green colour. The flowers are 
produced in long (lender fpikes, which 
fpring from the wings of the ftalks ; 
they are of a bright yellow, and fhaped 
like the other butterfly flowers ; thefe 
are fucceeded by naked feeds. 

The twelfth fort grows naturally in 
Bohemia and Aullria, but has been 
long cultivated in England as a medi- 
cinal plant, though at prefent it is rare- 
ly ufed: it is annual. The ftalks are 
large, hollow, and channelled; they 
rife about a f< ot high, garnifhed with 
trifoliate leaves, whofe lobes are oval, 
and (lightly fawed on their edges, 
(landing upon pretty long foot ftalks. 
The flowers are collected in oblong 
fpikes, which (land upon very long 
foot-ftalks, fpringing from the wings 
of the ftalk at every joint ; they are of 
a pale blue colour, ihaped like thofe of 
the common Melilot : thefe appear in 
June and July, and are fucceeded by 
fmall yellow feeds of a kidney fhape, 
two or three being included in each 
fiiort pod. The whole plant has a 
very ftrong fcent like that of Fenu- 
greek, and perifhes foon alter the feed 
is ripe. 

If the feeds of thefe two forts are 
permitted to fcatter, the plants will 
rife without care, and require no o- 
ther culture but to keep them clean 
from weeds, and thin them where 
they grow too clofe. .. A/Mr. 

CLOUT, an iron plate on the ax!e- 
tree of a carriage. 

CLOWN'S WOUND WORT, [Si- 
faith.] Ironwqrt. 

CLUMP, a number of trees planted 
together. 

CLUNG, clofed up, or (topped ; 
fpoken 



C L A 



CLA 



^, fpoken of hens when they do not lay. 
It is alfo applied to wood, or any other 
thing that is fhrivellerl, or lhrunk up, 
when it is faid to be clung. 

CLUSTER, a hunch, a number of 
things of the fame kind growing or 
joining together. Alfo a number of 
animals, or a body of people collected 
together. 

CLAYS, though diftinguifticd ac- 
cording to their colours, under the 
terms of red, yellow, black and white, 
and called in particular places under 
their different appearances, by a va- 
riety of names yet all agree in their 
general nature, and may be conveni- 
ently firft treated of together. 

They differ from all other foils in 
that they are tough, wet, and coid : 
and in proportion as they are mixed 
in greater or leffcr quantity in the 
lands, they give them thole proper- 
ties in a greater or lcffer degree. 

Some of the kinds are indeed fo 
much tougher than the others, that an 
equal mixture of them does more 
hurt. Thus the red clay ; debafe lands 
more than any other kind ; the yellow 
are next in (liffnefs and coldnefs to 
thefe ; the black are lefs wet and tough 
than either of the former ; and the 
white leaf! of all. However, the yel- 
low, in a fomewhat larger proportion, 
will do equal mifchief with the red in 
a fmaller, and fo of the reft : the dif- 
ference as at firft obferved, being 
more in the quantity of the clay in 
the foil, than according to the parti- 
cular kind. 

The improvement of all foils de- 
pends in a great meafure upon the 
breaking them, by which means their 
parts are more expofed to the fun and 
air, and are made more fit to receive 
the different kinds of feeds. 

As the clayey foils are of all others 
the moft teuton, they moll cf all re- 
quire this care. We know that the 
effect cf fire is to reduce this toygh 
earth into a loofe crumbly matter i 
and whatever fire will do cp thefe cc- 
cafions, the action of the fun and air 
will alfo perform, only it requires more 
time. Qylfer-fhells, that have lain a 
a great while on the fea fhores, are as 
perfectly calcined by the fun and air, 
as if they had been in the fire. And 
in the fame manner thefe fhells which 
are found in marie, and other earths, 
when they have been a while fpread 



upon the ground, grow foft and crum- 
bly. It is the fame with clay : the 
fun and air will take away its tough 
quality, as the fire does : and frequent 
ploughing meliorates clayey foils, by 
turning up the clods in different po- 
fitions to the fun and air, and by af- 
filting the operation in breaking them 
to pieces. 

This is the way wherein frequent 
ploughing operates upon a clayey foil, 
and the farmer who tries it will never 
be deceived in his expectations. 

All clay lands are known by thefe 
qualities : they hold the water that falls 
on them ; and when well wetted, they 
are a great while before they dry : in 
the fame manner when thoroughly dry, 
they are not foon wetted. In a dry 
feafon the land cracks in chinks. If 
it be ploughed when wet, it (ticks to 
the plough like mortar j and in a cry 
feafon the plough tears it up in great 
hard clods, which are all clay at the 
bottom. For this reafon where the 
coat of foil is not thick, the farmer 
fhould not plough deep, for he will 
then injure his land by mixing the 
clay among it. 

All the clayey foils require a great 
deal of induftry artd care, as well as 
knowledge, in the drafting and ma- 
nagement : but when the toughnefs is 
got the better of, fo that the farmer 
can get his grain into it, and fee it 
well covered, it very often yields large 
crops. 

Thereddifh clay is the tougheft and 
coldeft of all ths kinds; and requires 
the molt pains in the hufbandman to 
fubdue its nature. 

The firft method for the improving 
this kind of foil is, by frequently re- 
peating thefe deep ploughing* to break 
and feparate the clods over and over, 
as the fun and air calcine them. 

To this the farmer is to add the af- ^ 
fiftance of draftings . And it is the t'ea.**" 
particular quality of th.s clay, that it /># s/rsl 
will receive all kinds of manures, and /» / . 
be improved by them : but then the *-0rHf> 
labour is to be equal to the expence, 
for without the frequent ploughing al- 
ready mentioned, nothing will take 
effect upon it. 

Dung dees not readily mix with 
this fort cf foil ; but when it is well 
ploughed in, it is of great fervice. 
This however is not the kind that a- 
grees belt with it \ in Nerthampton- 
lhire 



C L A 



CLA 



ihirethey manure it with lime tofome 
advantage ; in Hertfordfhire and Buck- 
ingfhire they ufe foot and aihes ; but 
that which agrees beft of all with its 
nature is chalk. This is now the 
general practice; and the farmers in 
moft parts of England begin to find 
the advantages of it. 

The young hufbandman muft not 
be difheartened at the expence of this 
fort of drefiing, or the labour of fuch 
frequent ploughings ; for he will be 
fure to reap the benefit of it : it is 
much more chargeable to drefs a piece 
of the red clayey foil, than any other 
vvhatfoever; but then the advantage 
lafts long in proportion : a field of 
this foil, once well diefied, will keep 
in heart fifteen 01 fix teen years. 

Indeed it may be remarked of the 
clayey foils in general ; and moft of 
all of this in paiticular, that although 
no ground is fo flubborn or fo barren 
.when neglected ; none has fo many 
or fo great and good qualities, wiien 
it has been thoroughly wrought in the 
above defcribed manner. 

When this red clayey foil is well 
wrcught, wheat fucceeds excellently 
upon it. Barley fometimes yields a 
good crop, but not conftantly, for it 
depends on the feafon ; if that prove 
dry the barky does well; but if not 
it comes to little : for this foil holds 
the water a gieat while, and barley 
cannot bear a great deal of wet to lie 
about the roots. 

Beans fucceed extremely well in 
this earth, for they will bear great deal 
of water, nay, they requite it : for in 
dry feafons and on a loofe land, they 
yield nothing in comparifon of their 
produce on thefe foils. Beans require 
a great deal of nourifhment, and this 
red clayey foil is the richeft feeding 
land we have when well prepared. 

Our advice therefore to the young 
.farmer, who has a piece of land with 
this foil upon his hands, is : 

Fit it, not to fpare, either labour or 
expence upon it in the beginning, for 
ali this will be returned to him ten- 
fold. Let him plough it thoroughly 
and often, and take care that the 
plough cut deep. Let him employ a 
careful and honeft ploughman that 
will mind his bufinefs, not an idle 
boy, as is too often done. And let 
him go over the land frequently him- 
felf to fee that it was well cut up, and 
well broke in every part. 



In the fecond place, let him beftow 
chalk enough upon it, and fee it be 
worked well in j or if chalk cannot 
be had, let him ufe fome of the other 
manures juft mentioned. When this 
is thoroughly done at firft, common 
care and induftry will ferve afterwards: 
and from this he will have a foil, which 
inftead of holding the water to chill 
his crops while young, will let thewet 
when it is too much, below the roots ; 
and will always detain enough. 

Thir lly, let him depend chiefly upon 
his wheat : for that grain upon a red 
clayey foil thus manured, will never 
fail him. He may alfo be fure of 
beans, turneps, and clover, for thefe 
never fail. He may in dry feafons 
ftand a fair chance for barley: but 
wheat is the fure and certain commo- 
dity for this foil. 

Laftly, when he has thus got his 
land into good order by his induftry 
and expence, don't let him drain it 
of its heart again by covetoufnefs or 
folly. Let him not draw away its 
itrength by crofs cropping, or too fre- 
quent fowing. Moderation is the rule 
of all things in this life. There is no 
way to be poorfo quickly as the delire 
of growing rich too fall. 

The yellow clay of England is in its 
nature more nearly allied to the red 
than any other : and is next to that 
the moft frequent. It is as univerfal 
in fome counties, as the red is in o- 
thers ; and is fo much of the fame 
compofition, that a great many of the 
rules preceding hold true here : but 
as chalk is the beft manure for that, 
marie, where a proper kind can ho 
had, is for this. 

In Staffordihire, where this foil is 
frequent in the common fields, they 
fow it two years, and let it lie fallow 
the third. They lay it in ridges, or 
otherwife, according to the condition ; 
and make their fallows toward the 
latter end of March. They plough 
it a fecond time about three months 
after, or a little fooner; and before 
this, they drefs it with cow-dung or 
horfe-dung, except when they fold it 
with fheep, then it is immediately 
fpread and caft under furrow with the 
plough, before the fun and rain ex- 
hauft and weaken it. Ten weeks af- 
ter this, that is, toward the end of 
Auguft, they plough it again to kill the 
weeds j and to turn up the manure. 
About; 



C L A 



e l a 



About the week before Michaelmas 
they plough for fowing, and then the 
manure is again turned and falls upon 
the feed with the fined part of the 
land. 

They fow wheat upon the land after 
this drefiing, and afterwards beans, 
with both which the yellow clayey 
foil excellently agrees after this pre- 
paration. This is the Staffordfhire 
practice in common fields. 

In fome places where other manure 
cannot be had,fea fand may be ufed for 
the improvement of the yellow clayey 
foil ; and it is to be laid on in very 
large quantities : this may feem 
ftrange advice to the farmer in fome 
counties, where fuch a thingwas never 
heard of, for every thing appears 
ftrange at firft; but it is a practice 
founded on realbn : the cauf'e of the 
particular barrennefs of thefe clayey 
foils is the toughnefs of their fub- 
ftance ; and fand breaks that tough- 
nefs, and gives way for the rains to 
get into their body. Farther, loams 
are fruitful, as will be.feen hereafter ; 
and as the practical farmer well knows 
loams are only mixtures of clay and 
fand. Nature has made the mixture 
in thefe places, and why may not art 
and induftry imitate her. 

By large dreffings of fand, a clayey 
foil may be turned into a loamy one 
for ever ; and then an addition of fuch 
manures as are ordered for lcams is 
ufeful. Nor is it matter of wonder 
that fand fticuld in this manner me- 
liorate clay ground ; for clay is ufed in 
the fame way as a manure to fand ; 
and in that cafe it does the fame thing . 

Ames which are a very good ma- 
nure for yellow clayey lands, act in a 
double way, both as fand, and by their 
other qualities; warming, as well as 
opening the land : and after the more 
fubftantial dreffings, foot is an excel- 
lent manure. Nor is burning to be 
forgot for the improvement either of 
this, or of the red clayey foil, for it 
breaks their parts in a furprifing man- 
ner, rendering them not only fruitful 
in themfelves, but convening them 
into a manure for other lands. 

It has been affirmed by fome prac- 
tical writers who have examined thefe 
things nicely, and who have proved it 
by experiments.that clay contains about 
a fourth part of fine fand. But it is 
only of the red and yellow clays this 



(hould be affirmed. The white clay con- 
tains none : nor would it be difficult, 
to produce the yellow clay altogether 
pure from it. Indeed tiiere always is 
fome in the red, and this is a reafon 
why the red clayey foil is not quite fo 
ftubborn as the yellow. 

It is ftrange, that among foils of the 
fame name, contrary methods are to 
be ufed in the culture; but this is the 
cafe between the red and yellow clayey 
foils, and the white : it is to be ob- 
served, however, as before hinted, that 
thefe really agree in nothing but the 
name of clay, their qualities being al- 
together different. 

The farmer is to cbferve an exact 
contrary conduct with the whiteclayey 
foil, from that proper for thofe before- 
mentioned ; for his aim is to be juft 
oppofite : his care with the others is 
to make them fine enough : but when 
he has a white clayey foil to manage, 
he muft take care not to make it too 
fine. 

As the red and yellow clayey foils 
are tough and ftifF ; the white is tender 
and brittle : it breaks as it falls from 
the plough: and from its nature in 
this refpect, it yields to the plougli 
with great eafe. 

Frequent ploughings were ordered 
for the others, but a few do for this. 
As no foil requires fo much care in the 
manures, the farmer's attention is to 
be employed almoft entirely on that 
head. In general, as the yellow and 
red clayey foils requite ftrong, this 
white one requires rich dreffings. 

In the firft place, the finelt manure 
for it is foot. 

Soot may feem at firft fight a clear 
manure, but a little of it goes a great 
way. Experienceihews that one bufhel 
of foot is equal in its effects to a load 
of common dung. 

Eighteen bufhels of good foot will 
compleatly drefs an acre of the white 
clayey land ; and the fame quantity of 
ground, as is very well known, will 
take as many cart loads or more of 
good dung. But let the farmer take 
care he is not impofed upon in this 
commodity : for the chimney fweep- 
ers are apt to mix afhes amonj 
their foot to encreafe the quantity ; 
and then it may require five and twenty 
bufhels to an acre. 

After foot, the next manure for this 

foil is dung. And in this refpect, tha 

farmer 



C L A 



CIO 



farmer will find that the pra&ice of 
folding uptn it is excellent. Ellis re 
commends the folding firft ; and after- 
wards fpreading it all over with the 
dung : and this is found to be of grc^t 
fervice. 

Having confidered the red, yellow, 
and white cla)e> foils, ae come now 
to the black, which is the riclieft of 
them all. 

The other kinds may be brought to 
fertility by art, and with experience, 
but this enjoys from nature the fame 
advantages. The mixture in this foil 
is fo happy, tint it is in its own native 
flate much like what they are when 
improved by culture. Yet even this 
is capable of great improvement, in- 
fomuch that it will yield twice the 
produce in the hands of the fkiltul 
and induflrious, that it does to the 
inconfiderate or ignorant. 

This black clayey foil confifls of a 
blackifh clay, which is mixed with a 
quantity of vegetable mould; and 
alfo contains fand, fometimes in a very 
large, ufually in a moderate quantity. 
The clay in the compofition of this 
Is not fo tough as that of the red or 
yellow, as appears when they are ex- 
amined fingly ; nor yet is it fo fhort 
and crumbly as the white. Thus its 
own nature tends to its making a bet- 
ter foil than either ; and then the fand 
which it contains anfwers the purpofe 
of that which in other cafes is to be 
added ; and the qur.ntity of vegetable 
mould gives it great fertility. 

Such is the compofition of this ex- 
cellent foil ; which is, in refpccl to its 
ftruclure and confidence, of a middle 
nature between the white clayey foil, 
and the yellow or red j and exceeds 
them both in fruitfulnefs. 

This foil therefore does 'not require 
♦hofe painful or repeated ploughmgs, 
nor that expence and tedioufnefs of 
manure which are neceffary to the o- 
thers : but light turnings and rich 
manures, applied in fmall quantities, 
anfwer the purpofe. Thefe mull be 
ufed according to knowledge, and as 
there is no land fo well worth the ftu- 
dying as this, there is none that will 
fo weil reward the pains. 

The farmer who fhould drefs this 
foil like the other clayey kinds, with 
chalk and fand, and the like, would 
he guilty of ftrange error. Mel- 
low dui.g is the proper manure for 



this Ian*! ; and adds to its natural 
richness. Cow dung is not arftffs for 
it, but the beft manure of all is the 
dung of pigeons. W here this is to be 
had, the way of ufirv,j it is thus : It 
is to be fprinkled ever a barley field, 
for instance by hand, as foon as the 
barley is fowr. In this cafe the rains 
wafh it in, and the effects of it is fur- 
prifing. Nothing can exce d the crop 
that follows fuch dreffing on fuch land. 
The dung of poultry is alfo good 
ufed in the fame way ; and any rich 
and mellow manure. 

This black clayey foil in pafture land 
is very fruitful, and needs lefs dreffing 
than any other ; the beft manure is 
dung, that has lain till it is well 
rotted : this i- to be carefully fpread 
over the ground, that the rain may wafh 
it in-, and for this purpofe it fhould 
be laid on in a rainy feafon. 

CLASPERS. Threads or tendrils 
of creeping plants. 

CLAW. The foot of a bird or 
heart, armed with fharp horny nails. 
CLEARING of Land, to get out 
all roots of trees, bufhes, &c. 

CLEANING of Corn, to get it 
ready for winnowing. 

CLETCH. A brood. A provincial 
term. 

CLOD. A lump. 
CLODDING BEETLE. A beetle 
ufed to break the clods or lumps of 
earth. This is now generally and 
better performed by the fpike-roller. 

CLOGGS. Pieces of wood, or 
the like, faitened about the necks, or 
to the legs of beafts, to prevent their 
running away. 

CLOSH. The Founder. A diftemper 
in the feet of cattle, after a great heat or 
vehement travel, which has ftirred 
the feet, and will fuddenly vifk their 
blood, fo as it goes down to the 
hoofs, fret, hurt, and pain them, (o 
that they fhall not be able to crufh 
that place. In order to the cure here- 
of, if the bloods refts nigh the legs, 
above the hoof, you fhould then 
chafe the beaft often, and rub him 
hard, to make the blood retire; and 
if that profit not, launce his feet gently 
round, on the edges of his hoofs, 
with fmall races, not deep ; and it the 
blood be gone down into the hoof, 
open it a little with a iharp knife, in 
the midfr, under both the claws ; then 
lay lint, mixed with fait, nettles, and 
vinegar, 



C L Y 



C O A 



£ 



€ 



vinegar ; and not let his feet come to 
any water, till he be well, but keep 
him dry in the flail ; takingcare in the 
cutting of him, that the blood do ilfue, 
for otherwife it will grow to fome pu- 
trefaction, and fo impoftumate; for 
which reafon, it mutt be opened and 
cleanfed well, and a cloth, iteeped in 
vinegar, fait, and oil, bound thereto ; 
and in the end, take of old gr'eafe 
and deer fuet, melted together, an 
equal portion, and heal it there- 
with. Jcc y/zatneros?- 

CLOVE, a term ufed in weights ; 
and in refpedt to wool, feven pounds 
makes a clove; but in Effex, they al- 
low eight pounds of cheefe and butter 
to the clove; 31 cloves, or 256 pounds 
to the wey : in Suffolk, they allow 
42 of thofe cloves, or 336 pounds to 
the wey. 

CLOVEN-FOOTED. Having the 
foot divided. 

CLOUGH, ox Draught. This is an 
allowance of two pound at every three 
.hundred weight, for the turn of the 
fcale ; that fo the commodity may hold 
out, when retailed. 

CLOUGH, a valley between two 
ileep hills. 

CLOWN's-MUSTARD. An herb 
So called. 

CLOYED. Pricked with a nail, 
applied to a horfe when fhced. 

To CLUCK. To call the chickens 
as the hen does. 

CLUSH, or'Swollen Neck. A dif- 
temperin cattle, cured in this manner ; 
firft, let the beaft reft three or four 
days, then take frefh butter, honey, 
hogs-lard, and wax, all in equal quan- 
tities, melted together into a falve, 
with which anoint the place; alfo, if 
the neck be fwollen and raw, take ho- 
ney, maftick, and a little frefh butter, 
or frefh fwine's greafe, (without fait) 
and boiling them altogether, ufe it far 
an ointment : when it is puffed up, 
fwollen and raw, take elecampane, 
well boiled, and flamped with hogf- 
jreafe, weather fat, honey, frankin- 
cenfe, and new wax, blended toge- 
ther, and anoint the place therewith. 

CLUSTER-GRATE. A fpecies of 
grape fo called. 

CLYSTER, an injection up the fun- 
dament for the purpofe of eafing or 
affifting in fome difeafe, and are of 
various kinds ; the following are pre- 
scribed by a correfpondent to the Far- 
mer's Magazine. 
Vol. I. 



Purging ClyfltrSi No. 1. — —Gruel, 
three pints or two quarts; Epfoni 
falts, or common fair, fyiup of buck- 
thorn, fweet oil, or linfeed oil, each 
four ounces. 

No.. 2. — Boil a handful of'bearsfoot 
and chamomile flowers in three pints 
oi water a lew minutes ; ilrain, and 
add half a pint of linfeed oil, and four 
ounces of fyiupof buckthorn. 

The clyfter, No. 2, may be made 
more purging by adding fenna, or 
bitter-apple; 

EmsUienfClyfters. No. i. — Milk gruel, 
three pints; fweet oil, half a pint. 

No; 2 —.-Sheep's-head bioth, 
■ Carrr.'.nutiih' C/\J}crs. No. i. — Camo- 
mile flowers, fweet fennel feeds, car- 
raway feeds, and coriander (teds, each 
one ounce ; water, three pints; boil 
five minutes, Itrain, and add two 
ounces of electuary of bay berries, 
and one ounce of foot. 

Anodyne Q/yJlers. No. 1. — Sheep's 
head broth, three pints; liquid lauda- 
num, one ounce. 

No. p.. — Diffoive half a dram fo a 
dram of opiumin fome broth, gruel, 
&c. 

Rtpih-gcn: Pfyjler, — Logwood chips, 
two ounces; balaufline flowers, one 
ounce; water, two quarts; boil to 
one. and then add two ounces of di- 
afcordium, and one ounce of arme- 
nian bole. 

COAL. The common foffil firing. j 

Small COAL. Made of the fprdy 
and brufh-wood which is (tripped off 
from the branches of coppice wood, 
and which is fomeiimes bound up in 
bavins for this ufe ; though alfo it 
fhall be as frequently charred withoue 
binding, and then it is called, coming 
it together. This they place in fome 
near floor, made level, and free of in- 
cumbrances ; where fitting one of the 
bavins, 01 part of the pray on fire, 
two men fiand ready to throw on ba- 
vin upon bavin, as fait as they take 
fire, which makes a very great and 
fudde.n blaze, till all is burnt that lies 
near the place; but before they begin 
to fet fire, they fill great tubs or vef- 
fels with water, which (land ready by 
them, and this is dafhed on with a 
great dim or fcoop, fo foon as ever 
they have thrown on ail their bavins, 
continually plying the great heap of 
glowing coals, which gives a fu den 
flop to the fury of the fire, whilft with 
H h a great 



c o c 



C O F 



a great rake, they lay and fpread It o- 
ver, and ply calting water ftill on the 
coal, which are no>v perpetually turned 
by two men, with gret lhovels, a 
third throw iig on tne water; and 
this is continued to be done, till no 
move fire appears, though they ceafe 
not from being hot; then they fhovel 
them up into great heaps, and when 
thoroughly cold, put them up infacks 
for fale, where they are ufed among 
divers artificers, bqth to kindle greater 
fire, and to temper and aneal their 
fevcral works : to fay nothing of the 
ordinary ufe of them in families, to 
kindle h.i fires, when out. 
COAL Ajhti. See Coal Ash es. 
COAL Soot. A very good dreffing 
for grafs Und, and for wheat in the 
fpr'ng, efpeciaUy when attacked by 
the worm, i/'ec. (Trctf ' — 

COB, a wicker bafket to carry on 
the aun. Hente a feed cob, or fted- 
lip, is a hafket for Tiwing. 

COB NU 1". A large nut of the 
hazle kind. 

COC\ JFEROUS. Bearing herries. 
COCCYGRIA. Venice fumach. 
See Sumach. 

COCHINEAL, [Coccmella.'] This 
is a fmall >;rain, of an irregular fi- 
gure, a datk ied colour on the out- 
fide, and a deep bright red within : it is 
brought from Mexico and N;w Spain. 
This fubftance has long been fup- 
pofed to be the feed of a plant : it ap 
pears from chemical, experiments to 
be an animal, and from the a courvs 
of the more celebrated naturalifts, an 
infect, which breeds on the American 
prickly pear tree, and adheres thereto 
without changing its place. Cochi- 
neal has been ftronglv reeommended 
as a fudorific. cardiac and alexiphar- 
mac: but practitioners have never 
obferved any confiderahlc effects from 
it. Its grcteft confumption is among 
the fcarlet dyers ; and in medicine its 
principal ufe is as a coiouring drug ; 
both watery and fpirituous liquors ex- 
tract its colour. 
7 COCK. The male of a hen. The 
\ male of fmall birds in general. 
COCK. A fmall heap of hay. 
COCKEREL. A young cock. 
COCKLE. A pernicious weed. 
COCKSCOMB. A fpecies of A- 
tnaranthus. 

COCKSHEAD. Saintfoin. 



CcCcn. 



/V.. /csi . 



CODLING. A fpecies of apple* 
well known. 

CODLINS and CREAM. A herb 
found wild by the fides of ditches and 
rivers in many parts of England. 

COFFEE, [Coffea.] This tree is a 
native of Arabia, but is now culti- 
vated in both Indies. It is a low tree, 
feldom rifing above fixteen feet in 
heighth. It is propagated by the ber- 
ries which mould be fown foon after 
they are gathered. 

The berries fliould be planted in 
fmall pots, and plunged into a hot 
bed of tanners bark. If the bed be of 
a proper temperature of warmth, the 
plant* will appear in a month or five 
weeks time, and in about fix weeks 
more will be fit to tanfplant ; for as 
many of the berries will produce two 
plants, fo the fooner they are parted 
the better ; for when they grow dou- 
ble till they have made large roots, 
they wi.l be fo intermixed and en- 
tangled, as to render it difficult to fe- 
parate them, without tearing off their 
fibres, which will greatly prejudice 
the plants. When thefe are tranf- 
pianted, they mult each be put into a 
feparac fmall pot, and plunged into 
the tan-bed again ; which fhould be 
ftirred up to the bottom, and, if re- 
quired, fome new tan fhould be mixed 
with it to renew the heat, then the 
plants fh'ulrl be gently watered, and 
the glaffes of the hot-bed mult be 
fhaded every day till they have taken 
new root ; after which the plants 
fhnild havefcelh airadmitted to them 
every day, in , roportion to the warmth 
of the feafon : during the fummerthey 
will requite frequenrly to be refrefhed 
with water, but they muft not have 
it in too great plenty : for if the roots 
are kept too moift, they are v.ry fub- 
ject to rot, then the leaves will foon 
decay and drop off, and the plant- be- 
come naked ; when this happens, they 
are feldom recovered again. The firft 
fign of thefe plants being difordered, 
is, their leaves fweating out a clam- 
my juice, which attracts the fmall in- 
fects which frequently infeft them in 
itoves when they are not in health, 
and thefe cannot be deftroyed till the 
plants are recovered to vigour; for 
although the plants are ever fo care- 
fully warned and cleared from thefe 
infects, yet they will be foon attacked 

by 



C O F 



COL 



by them again, if they are not reco- 
vered to health, for thefe infecls are 
never feen upon any of the plants 
while they are in perfect vigour ; but 
when they are difcovered, they foon 
fpread over all the leaves and tender 
parts of the plants, and multiply ex- 
ceedingly ; fo that upon the firft at- 
tack, the plants mould be fhifted into 
fre(h earth, and all pofTible care taken 
to recover them, without which all 
the warning and cleaning of the plants 
will be to little purpofe. The difcr- 
ders attending the coffee-trees, gene- 
rally proceed from either being put in- 
to pots too large for them, nothing 
being of worfe confequencc than over 
potting them, or from the earth be- 
ing too ftiff, or over watered. If thefe 
errors are avoided, and the (love kept 
always in a proper temperature of heat, 
the plants will thrive, and produce 
plenty of fruit annually. 

COLESEED. See Cabbage. 
COLEWORT. SeeCABBACE. 
Sea COLEWORT. See Sea Cab- 
bage . 

COFFIN, that part of the horn or 
hoof of a horfe which appears when 
he has his foot fet on the ground. 

COFFIN BONE, that bone which 
lies within a horfe' s hoof as in a 
coffin. 

This bone is round upwards, where 
it receives the little partem, but grows 
broader and thinner towards its bot- 
tom ; it is of a porous open contex- 
ture, like a piece of loaf fugar, and 
is eafily pierced, and often wounded 
when horfes happen to take up nails 
and other fharp bodies in the if reets or 
roads : accidents to which they are 
often liable, and are more eafily cured 
than they would have been, had the 
bone been hard and folid. 

COFFIN-JOINT, that where the 
lefTer partem joins the foot. 

When the coffin-joint is rtrained, a 
horfe often continues a long time lame, 
without the owner's difcovering where 
the lamenefs lies ; becaufe a horfe does 
not, at firft, favour it much on the 
bending of the foot, only in planting 
his foot upon the ground : but in time 
there will grow fuch a rtiffnefs in that 
joint, that he will only touch the 
ground with his toe and it will be 
impoffible to play the joint with one's 
hand. The only method of remov- 
ing this itiffhefs is bliftering and firing, 



which generally fucceeds the diforder, 
and then rarely ever admits a cure, or 
even aleviation, unlefs the flifffufs and 
contraction has been of long ftanding. 

COKE, pit-coal, or fea-coal, char- 
red. It is made by burning pit coal 
in ovens conrtrucled for that purpofe, 
and extinguifhing the fire, by drawing 
it out of the oven, and fpread ing it on 
the ground. 

COLD, the name of a difeafe to 
whicli animals of almoft every kind, 
particularly hoifes, are very ful j 6r. 

Colds are caufed by an obrti uclion 
of perfpiration : that is, the pores, or 
outlets' of the fkin, are lo fur (hut up, 
that the (learns of perfpirahle matter 
are checked fo that they cannot pafs 
off in their ufual manner. The con- 
fequence of this is they recoil on the 
blood, vitiate its quality oveifill the 
vtffds, and affeel the head, the glands 
or kernels of the neck and throat, the 
lungs, and other principal parts. 

It would be endlefs to enumerate 
the various caufes of colds ; the moft 
ufual are, riding horfe:. till iliey are 
hot, and fuffering them to ftard in 
that condition, where the air is cold 
and piercing j removing a horfe from 
a hot rtable to a ccld one, and too 
fuddenly changing his cloathing : 
hence it is that horfes catch fevere 
colds after they come out of dea'ers 
hands ; and by not being carefully 
rubbed down, when they come in hot, 
off journeys. 

The figns of a horfe's catching coId t 
are a cough, heavinefs, and euliefs, 
which affe£f him more or lefs in pro. 
portion to the feverity of it : the ey«s 
are fometimes moirt and watery, the 
kernels about the ears, and under the 
jaw fwell, the nofe gleets, and he 
rattles in his breathing ; and when the 
cold is violent, the horfe will be fever- 
ifh. his flanks work, and he will both 
loath his meat, and refufe his water. 
When thefe lart fymptoms are attended 
with a flimy mouth, drs and feet 
cold, and a great inward forenefs, the 
re is danger of a had lever. 

But when the horfe coughs ftrong, 
fnorts after it, is but little oft" his 
ftomach, pricks up his ears, and 
moves brifkly in his rtall, dungs and 
rtales freely, his fkin feels kindly, and 
hi- coat does not flare, he is in no 
danger, and there will be no oc-afion 
for medicines of any kind j ard u 
Jhould 



COL 



COL 



fhouid bleed him about two quarts, 
keep him warm, and give him feeds 
of (calded bran, with as much warm 
water as he will drink, in order to 
dilute his blood. 

If the diforder fhouid increafe, the 
liorfe fall hot, and refute his meat, 
bleed him, if a ftrong one, two quarts 
more ; and if you are not fatisfied, 
without giving medicines, avoid, as 
you would poifon, a farrier's drench ; 
which is generally compofed of fome 
hot naufeous powders, giving in a 
quantity of ale : which too often in- 
creafes the fever, by over-heating the 
blood, and palls the horfe's ftomach 
by its loathfomenefs. And inllead of 
it, infute two ounces of arm i feeds, 
with a dram of faffron, in a pint and 
a half of boiling water ; pour off the 
clear, and difTolve in it four ounces of 
honey ; to which may be added four 
fpoonfuls of fallad oil : this drink may 
be given every night ; or one of the 
following balls, provided there is no 
fever j in which eafe, it always will be 
more eligible to give two or three 
ounces of nitre, or fal prunella, every 
day in his feeds, or water, till it is re- 
moved ; but fhouid the horfe be in- 
clined to coftivenefs, remember that 
his body fhouid be kept open by e- 
mollient elyfiers, or cream of tartar 
HjlToIved in his water, to the quantity 
of three or four ounces a day. 

Take of the frefh powders of ani- 
feed, elicampane, carraway; liquorice, 
turmeric, and flour of brimftonc, each 
three ounces ; juice of liquorice four 
ounces, diffolved in a fufhcient quan- 
tity of mountain ; faffion powdered 
half an ounce, fallad oil and honey, 
each half a pound, oil of annifeed one 
ounce : mixed together with wheat 
flour; give tie fize of a pullet's egg 
hrght and morning. 

This Ample method, with gocd 
nurfing and hot mafhes, warm water 
and cloathing, efpecially about the 
head and throat, which promotes the 
running at the noftrils, will anfwer 
in molt Hidden colds ; and when the 
horfe feeds heartily, and fnorts after 
coughing, moderate exercife every 
day will hafren his recovery. 

The fcalded bran fhouid be put hot 
into the manger, for the (teams cen- 
duce not a little to promote a running 
at the note, which is often very plen- 
tiful, and greatly forwards the cure. 



His manger fhouid be kept clean, by 
filling it with (traw ; his hay well 
fhook and fprinkled with water, and 
given in fmall quantities : for his 
breathing; at this time, taints the hay, 
and then he will not touch it. 

To a horfe loaded with flefh, a row- 
el may fometimes be neceffarv, as 
may alfo a gentle purge or two, to 
fome, when the diftemper is gone off. 

COLD-CHARGE, the name of a 
medicine much ufed by farriers for 
curing (trains, &c. It confifts of vi- 
negar, bole, and the white of eggs, 
mixed together to the confiftence of a 
poultice, and fpread over the part hurt. 

COLD-SEEDS. Greater, are water- 
melons, cucumbers, gourds, and me- 
lons. Lejjir, fuccory, endive, lettuce, 
and purfiane. 

COLD-BATH, [Balnea Frtgida.] 
There are hardly any chronic difeates 
but the cold bath may be made ufe of 
to advantage, if the conftitution has 
not fomewhat particular that forbids 
its ute ; which are chiefly corpulency, 
and unfound vifcera. In very fat per- 
fons, the fibres are fo fluffed round, 
and as it were bolftered up, that they 
have not room to vibrate or contract 
with the fudden fqueeze of the bath 5 
inftead therefore of enforcing their 
fprings, and fhaking off any unnecef- 
fary incumbrances, they will only 
be (trained to no pifrpote, and conte- 
qucntly weakened ; for wherefoever an 
effort is made to remove any thing 
by an elaftic body, if the firft exer- 
tion fails, every impetus afterwards 
languifhes, and the fpring is fpoiled. 
And in unfound vifcera, or where any 
part is much weaker than the reft, 
fuch an additional force, as the fudden 
contraction the bath gives to thefolids, 
will prefs the fluids on that part, very 
much to its damage; which may oc ■ 
cafion either the burftingof the veffels, 
or promoting the difcharge of fome ill 
humours upon that part, which other- 
wife might drain off elfewhere. 

But where nothing of this nature 
forbids the ute of the cold bath, what- 
soever is to be effected by bracing the 
folids, invigorating their vibrations, 
and accelerating the blood's motion, 
is with certainty to be had from hence. 
All difeates therefore from a fizy blood, 
and a lentor in the animal juices, if 
the elafticity of the veffels is not worn 
out with age or debauches, will fine! 
relief 



COL 



C O C 



k 

V 

^ 



relief from the cold bath. As rheu- 
matifms of the mod obiVinate kind, 
hypochondriacal affeelions, and delii- 
lity, from too tender, indulgent, and 
Inadive ways of life. Whatfoever in- 
conveniences alfo proceed from a bad 
tranfpiration, or when humours are 
thrown upon the furface, which can- 
not get through, but ulcerate, blotch 
and deform the (kin, this remedy will 
be of fervicc in. For upon immer- 
llon, the whole nervous fyltem is fo 
fhook, that the very capillaries feel 
the influence, and the minutelt paf- 
fages are forced opeo by an incteafed 
Velocity of the circulating fluids; 
whereby the fkin will b- cleared, and 
inltead of entertaining grofs acrimo- 
nious humours, tranfmit only the im- 
perceptible matter of perfpiration. 

COLLAR, the part of the harnefs 
that goes round a horfe's neck. 

Collar of brqftoh, is the quantity 
of brawn bound up in one parcel. 

COLOCYNTH, See Bitter Ap- 
ple. 

COLTS- FOOT, [TlJ?J!j S o.] This 
grows wild in watery places, produ- 
cing yellow flowers in February and 
March ; thefe foon fall off, and are 
fucceeded by roundifh leaves, hairy 
underneath : their tafte is herbaceous, 
lbmewhat glutinous and fubaciid. 
Tuffilago itands recommended . in 
coughs, and other difordcrs of the 
breaft and lungs : practice however 
feems to have almoft rejected it. 

This weed, which delights to grow 
by the fide of rivers, increafes fo faff 
by jts feeds and rambling roots, every 
piece of which laft will produce a 
new plant, though they have been bro- 
ken with the plough, that it cannot 
be extirpated without much difficulty, 
and a considerable time. Carefully 
pulling up i he roots every time the 
earth is ftirred, or the leaft veitige of 
the plant appears, and preventing its 
running to feed, are the moft effec- 
tual means of defiroying it in arable 
land ; and this is bed accompliihed by 
the horfe hoeing hufbandry : but to- 
tally to extirpate if, the ground mull 
be laid down long to grafs. One of 
Mr. LiuVs neighbours almoft. destroy- 
ed it by two fuccelTiye crops of vetches ; 
and he liimieJt' is clearly of opinion, 
that it may be killed by letting the 
land lie a fufficient time under clover, 
.or rye-grafs; bscaufe, fays he, the 



roots of the natural grafs matting 
more and more every year, will, in five 
or fix years, fo bind the furface of the 
ground, that the colts-foot will not 
be able to pierce through it, and will 
therefore die for want of air. He 
ploughed up broad clover the begin- 
ning of July, and turned up the roots 
of colts-foot, in which lie obferved, 
between earth and air, many little 
buds, fhot forth, of the bignefs of 
the Mid-furnmer buds in fruit-trees, 
probably to be the leaves or flowers of 
the next year 5 and at the depth of five, 
fix, and even feven inches, he remark- 
ed here and there a fhoot, of a callous 
body, like the root itfelf, from one to 
four inches long; perhaps deftined to 
be future roots : he experienced that 
a winter's fallow will not deltroy thefe 
roots, and that they cannot refill the 
effect of fummer fallows, in which 
they are turned up, and cxpofed dry 
to the fun. It is therefore neceffary 
to pick them as clean as pofiible, and 
burn them : for it is not to be fup- 
pofed, that all the roots which are 
turned up in a fummer fallow will 
wither of themfelves : on the contrary, 
fuch of the buds at the joints of thefe 
as are buried under ground, will ihoot 
again if much rain falls, or the feafon 
be wet. 4/k*. /3 /i H?r - /3u ? . 

foreign COLTS-FOOT, ■ \Cacalia.] 
Of this there are feveral forts growing 
in different parts of the world, and 
cultivated in the gardens of England. 

COCOA, or CACAO. The cho- 
colate-nut tree. This tree is a n.uive 
of America, and is fouud in . great 
plenty in feveral places between the 
Tropics, but particularly at Caracca 
and Carthagena, on the river Amazons, 
in the iithmus of Darien, at Hondu- 
ras, Guatimala, and Nicaragua. 

In order to cultivate this plant in 
Europe, by way of curiofity, it will be 
neceffary to have the nuts planted into 
boxes of earth (in the commies where 
they grow) foon after they are ripe, 
becaufe, if the nuts are fentov.er, they 
will iofe their growing; quality before 
they arrive. Thefe boxes (hould be 
placed in a fhady fituation, and muft 
be frequently watered, in order to for- 
ward the vegetation of the nuts. In 
about a fortnight after the nuts are 
planted, the plants will appear above 
ground, when they fhould be carefully 
watered i« dry weather, and protected 
freaa 



COL 



COL 



from the violent heat of the fun. Dur- 
ing their paflage theymuft be frequent- 
ly rcfrefhed with water ; but it muft 
not be given them in great quantities, 
unlefa it rot the tender fibres of their 
roots; and when they come into a cool 
latitude, they muft be carefully pro- 
tected from the cold, when they will 
not require to be fo frequently water- 
ed ; for in a moderate degree of heat, 
if they have gentle waterings once a 
week it will he fufficient. 

When the plants arrive in England, 
they fhould be carefully taken out of 
the boxes, and each tranl'planted into 
a feparate pot filled with light rich 
earth, and plunged into a moderate 
hot-bed of tanners bark. In this hot- 
bed the plants may remain till Micha- 
elmas, when they muft be removed 
into the bark-ftoye, and plunged into 
the tan, in the warmeft part of the 
ftove. During the winter feafon the 
plants muft be frequently refrefhed 
with water, but it muft be given to 
them in ftnall quantities, yet in fum- 
mer they will require a more plenti- 
ful fhare. Thefe plants are too tender 
to live in the open air in this country, 
even in the hotteft feafon of the year, 
therefore muft conftantly remain in 
the bath-ftove, obferving in very warm 
weather to let in a large fhare of frefh 
air to them, and in winter to keep 
them very warm. The leaves of thefe 
plants muft be frequently wafhed to 
clear them from filth, which they are 
fubjeft to contract by remaining con- 
ftantly in the houfe ; and this becomes 
an harbour for fmall infecls, which 
will infeft the plants and deftroy them, 
if they are not timely wafhed off. If 
thefe rules are duly obferved, the plants 
will thrive very well, and may produce 
flowers in this climate: but it will 
be very difficult to obtain fruit from 
them, for being of a very tender na- 
ture, they are fubjeft to many acci- 
dents in a cold country. 

COLLEY Sheep. Such as have 
black faces and legs. 

COLUMBINE, [Jquilcgm.] There 
are three fpecies, i, The Garden or 
Common Columbine, s. Wild Moun- 
tain Columbine. 3. Canada Dwarf 
Columbine. They all flower in May 
and June, and may be raifed by fowing 
the feed in autumn and dividing the 
roots. 

COLT. A young horfe. 



Foals are feparated from their dam« 
after five, fix, or at fartheft feveh 
months ; experience havsng (hewn, 
that fuch as are fuffered to fuck ten . 
or eleven months, though ufually larger 
and fuller of flefh, are not equal, in 0- 
ther refpedls, to thofe that are taken 
away fooner. After living fix or fe- 
ven months on milk, they are habi- 
tuated to a more folid nourishment, 
having bran given them twice a day, 
with a fmali quantity of hay, which 
is increafed as they advance in age, 
and in this manner they are kept in — • 
the ftahle, as long as they exprels any 
defire of returning to their dams : but 
when this uneafinefs is over, they are 
turned into the fields, taking care never 
to dolt falling. An hour before they 
are turned to grafs, a feed of bran, and 
fome water fhould be given them ; nor 
fhould they be expofed to either fevere 
cold or rain : in this manner the firft 
winter mull be palled. In May fol- 
lowing, they muft not only be turned 
in the fields every day, but may lie m — 
the open air till the end of October, 
taking care not to let them feed on 
the after-math ; for by accuftoming ' 
themfelves to this remarkable delicate 
and fucculent grafs, they would con- 
tract a diflike to hay, which, together 
with bian mixed with barley and oats 
ground, fhould be their principal food 
during the fecond winter. In this man- 
ner they are to be kept till their fourth 
year, fpending the days only in the 
paftures, during the winter ; but both 
day and night in the fummer. When 
they reach that age, they are to be tak- 
en from the paftures, and fed with 
dry meat; but in this change of food 
fome precautions are requifite ; as 
during the firft week to feed them 
only with ftraw, and give them proper 
medicines againft worms, which often 
trouble them from bad digeftions and 
too rank grafs. 

At weaning young colts, they fhould 
be kept in a clean ftable, not over 
warm, which would render them ten* 
der, and too fenfible of the impreffions 
of the air. They muft frequently have 
frefh litter, and be rubbed often with 
ftraw; but not tied nor curried till 
they are three, or at leaft two year* 
and a half old; for the roughnefs of 
this friction would give them pain, 
and their fhin being too tender to en- 
dure it, inftead of thriving, they would 

fall 



COL 



COM 



fall away. The rack and manger 
fliould not be too high, left thenecef- 
fity of lifting up their heads to reach 
their food, fliould occafion them to 
carry their heads inthatmanner, which 
would fpoil their cherts. When ihey 
are a year, or a year and a half old, the 
hair on their tails fhould be cut, as 
the fucceeding growth will be ftronger 
and thicker than the former. When 
they are two years old, thry fhould be 
feparated, and t e ftone colts kept with 
the horfes, and the fillies with the 
mares, otherwife the former would 
fruitlefsly weaken themfelves with the 
latter. At tlie age of three years, or 
three and a half, they fhould be bioke, 
and rendered docile. In orde r to this, 
a light eafy faddle fliould be put on 
then backs, and continue there three 
or four hours every d<y. They fhould 
alfo be ufed to receive the bit of a 
fmall bridle into their mouths, and 
fuffer their feet to be taken up, and 
fome ftrokes given on the fole, as if 
fhoeing them. If they are defigned 
for draught horfes, a liarnefs fhould 
be put on their bodies, and afterwards 
a fnaflte bridle fhould be added. They 
fliould then be trotted on level ground, 
but wthout a rider, the perfon only 
holding the reins, and eithei the fad- 
dle or harnefs on their backs : and 
when the faddle horfeeahly turns, and 
freely comes up to him that holds the 
rein, he fhould mount on his back, 
and difmount again immediately, with- 
out riding him, till he is four years 
old,- as before that time the weight 
would be too much for him : but at 
four years old he may be ridden, and 
trotted at fmall interv ,1s. 

COLTEVIL. AdilVafein horfes he- 
a fwelling in the fheath, tefticles and 
yard : the cure to be begun by bleeding 
ard warning tie parts clean ; then a- 
noint with ointment of elder, or oint- 
ment of adde 's tongue. 

This difeafe rot unfrequently arifes 
in colts from going with mares before 
they are able to cover : Ufe the fol- 
lowing fomentation, 
Take, Wormwood, 

Bay leaves, 

Southernwood, 

Mallow leaves, 

Chamomile flowers, 

Elder flowers, and 

Agrimony, — each a handful. 

Water, two gallons, 



Sec. 



Boil the whole together about twenty 

minutes, and then ftrain. 

COMB. The ornament of a cock's 
head. 

COMB. A meafure of corn, con- 
fifting of four Winchefter bufhels ; 
but in the len country the comb ?e^ 
r.erally conlilts of four bufhels, and 
each bufhel of eight gallons and a 
quart. 

COMFRY, [Symphhum.] A rough 
hairy plant, growing wild by the liaes 
of rivers and watery peaces. 

Spotted COMFRY. Lungwort. 

I OMMON. An open piece of 
ground, not enclofed. 

COMPOSTS. In bufbandry and 
gardening they fignify feveral forts of 
foils of earthy matter mixed together, 
in Older to make a manure for atTirt- 
ing the n itural earth in the works of 
vegetation, by way of amendment or 
improvement. 

Comports are various, and ou?ht to 
be different according to the different 
nature or quality of the foils which 
they are defigned to meliorate, and 
according as the land is either light, 
fandy, or loofe or heavy, clayey or 
cloddy. A light, loofe land requires 
a comport of a heavy nature, as the 
fcouring of deep ditches, p.mds, &c. 

So., on the other hand, a land that 
is heavy, clayey or cloddy, requires a 
comport of a more fprightly and fiery 
nature, that will infinuate itfelf into 
the lumpifh clods ; which, if they 
were not thus managed, would much 
obftrudt vegetation. For cold clay- 
ey land, fome advife to take one load 
of fea fand (if it can be conveniently 
had), or if not, other fand, or fandy 
ground, or fharp fand, and two loads 
of good rotten dung, and three loads 
of natural mould, tvvo loads of the 
top of fpit turf from off the meadows, 
or any other kind of rich turf land, 
and half a load of ccal-afhes, or the 
fweepings of ftreets, a fmall fprink- 
ling of pigeons, fheep, or other hot 
dungs. Thefe are to be laid down in 
different heaps in a circle, having a /v? *//,LC 
large fpace in the centre, fo that they 
may all be thrown up together in one 
heap, which is to be done by as many 
perfons at each heap, as there are dif- 
ferent loads in each, viz. one to that 
of one load, two to that of two loads, 
and three to that of three loads, and 
fo on ; thefe mull cart and fpiead at 

the 



Cfo 



JCS- »'.'/' 



COM 



CON 



the fame time every parcel with care 
and not altogether in lumps. 

The fitted time for the doingof this, 
is when the weather is dry, and alfo 
in the month of May. This mixture 
fhiuid be turned once a month till 
Michaelmas, and then it may be 
fcreened, and feparated into feveral 
forts;, to be ready, as occafion mall 
require, in the nurfery. 

For the nrft fort, it will be beft to 
fet the fkreen mere upright 5 and what 
comes through may he mixed with 
one fourth part of melon earth very 
fine. 

The fecond fort may be fcreened 
with 1 he fkreen Handing mo>e Hoping 5 
by which means, what comes through 
will be coarferthan the fiift. 

The remainder, which will be the 
rougheit a:>d moft cloddy earth, is re- 
commended as an extraordinary ma- 
nure to be dug in order to improve 
any ban en or poor land ; and if it be 
kept in a heap for one year, and 
fk^-ened the next year, it will then 
be as good as either the former. The 
fineft of thefe will be bell kept in a 
houfe, or under fome covering, that 
it may be dry ; though it would be 
better to be turned out fometimes to 
get rain. 

A compoft for a loofe fandy ground 
may be made, by taking two loads of 
dung, three loads of natural foil, three 
loacs of ftrong loamy earth, three 
loads of pond earth, or of the fcour- 
ing of ditches, which are to be or- 
dered, mixed and fkreened as before ; 
and fo to make three different forts of 
fkreenings. 

Others recommend other comports 
differing according to the different 
foils. 

For a (tiff foil inclining to clay, to 
take five loads of the fame foil when 
broken and opened, and to add to that 
five loads more o: heath turfs burnt ; 
that thefe having been well mixed and 
laid together during the winter in a 
heap or ridge, and being well lifted or 
fkreened, are recommended as a good 
compoft that will extremely forward 
trees. 

2. To mix four loads of fharp fand, 
and two loads of allies of burnt furzes, 
gorz, fern, weeds, or wood, with four 
loads of ft iff foil well broken and o- 
pened : that thefe having been well 
mixed together and laid up in a ridge 



in September, mould lie till the Fe- 
bruary following, and then may be 
fkreened and fifted tor ufe. Sir Wil- 
liam Bruce is faid to have ufed this 
compoft in his garden with good fuc- 
cei's. 

3. For a (tiff foil, — take four loads /"" 

of the ftiff foil, two loads of rotten *■ ^ /• 
wood, fuch as may be found under a/3/71-fZ- 
wood pile, or the fame quantity of 
rotted leaves, if the former cannot be 
had, two loads of burnt grafs-turf, 
and four loads of fand : this is re- 
commended to be done in October 
likewife; becaufc being then made, 
and fifted in the following fpring, it 
will be better than if they were made 
in the fpring; for that the heat of the 
fummer would exhale the volatile fpi- 
ri s, and if they were not laid in fome 
fhady place under trees, the weeds 
would exhauft good part of the nou- 
rifhment that is in them. Thefe being 
mixed well, and laid in a ridge till 
February, and then fifted, is recom- 
mended as a good compoft. 

4. Take two loads of ftiff foil, two 
loads of rape-feed after the oil has 
been preffed out, four loads of fand, 
and two loads of burnt heath or grafs. 
turf, and prepare them as the others, 
and fift them : and this compoft is re- 
commended as one that will forward 
any plant. 

5. Take four loads of ftiff foil, two 
loads of malt grains afterbrewing, and 
four loads of fand ; thefe being pre- 
pared as before, are recommended as 
a compoft that will haflen the growth 
of plants. 

6. Take of fheeps-dung and wood 
afhes equal quantities; of loam or 
mother-earth double the quantity : 
prepare them as before directed, and 
they will prove a good compoft. 

7. Take four loads of ftiff earth, 
four loads of fand, four loads of horfe 
dung' well confumed, and two loads* 
of turf afhes : prepare this mixture 
as before directed. 

CONTRAYERVA. This Is a. 
knotty root, an inch or two in length, 
about half an inch thick, of a reddifh 
brown colour externally, and pale 
within: long, tough, llender fibres 
fhoot out from all fides of it; thefe 
are generally loaded with knotty ex- 
ciefcences. This root is of a pecu- 
liar kind of aromatic fmell and a fome- 
what aftiingent, warm, bitterifh tafte, 
with 



COP 



C OP. 



with a light and fweetifh kind of acri- they ar^ thicker or thinner, they will 
rnony when lcng chewed : the fibres do more or lefs injury toybur tinder- 
have iittle tafteor fmell ;.the tuberous wood.. You Jhould likewife cenfider 
part therefore fhould be only chofen. at what growth you can fell jour un- 
Contrayerva is one of the mildtft of. der-wcod ; only remember that the 
thcfe fublUnces called alexipharmacs: older and taller your under- wood is, 
it is indifputahly a good and ufeiul di- the better it is both for fuel, and for 
aphoietic, and may be faft-Iy given in what ftandard^.you leave ( becaufe they 
much larger dofes than the common- will be the taller ard ftraiter, by be- 
pra£ticc is accuitomed to exhibit it in. . ing forced up by the wood that growl 
Its virtues are ex'ra£ted both by water about them ; though a deep foil con- 
and recTified fpirit, and do not arife in tributes much to thtir fpting. It is 
evaporation with either: the fpiritu- alfo neceffary, about th« time of your 
ous tinclure and extracl tafle flrnnger felling, to lay out your fevcral falls, 



of the root than the aqueous ones. 
CONIFEROUS. Bea/ing cones. 
Greaur CONSOUND. Ccmfry. 
Middle Coksound. Evgle. 
Leffer Con sound. Daify. 



that you may have an annual fuccef- 
fion, to yield a ye irly profit. But 
though the feldom felling of coppices 
yields the more and better wood j yet 
the fiequent cutting of it makes it 
CONSERVATORY. Green-houfe, thicken, and gives room for the feed- 
1^" CONVOLVULUS. See Bin©- ling* to come up. If many tiees 
^ Weed. grow in the coppice that is to be cut 

^ CONVALLILY, [Ctnnallaria'] Lily down, fell both them and the under- 
\ of the valley. wood together, cutting of; the ftubs 

5; COOM, the foot that gathers over as n-.ar the ground as convenient, and 
V the mouth of an oven ; alfo a cempo- thofe of the under-v.ood a-floue and 
' lition of tar and greafe, with whiich fmocth, and not above half a foot 
' the axle-trees and boxes of the wheels from the ground ; and flock up the 
' of carriages are daubed or fmeartd o- roots of the timber-tree-;, If they fend 
^ ver, in order uxlefTen the friction, forth no moots, in order to make 

^ COOP, a tumbrel, or cart enclofed room for feedlings and ycung roots to 
,^.4 withboards, tocarrydung, fand, grains, grow. 

^ &c. which would otherwife fall out. The under wood may be cut from 

^ Coop, likewife fienifies a pen, or the beginning of Gclooer to the latter 

*< enclofed place, where Iambs, poultry, end of February ; but February is the 

l &c. are (hut up, in order to be fed. belt month to o;t wood in, where youJ 



COPPICE, low woods, cut at ftated have but a fmall quantity tofeii, that 
times for poles, fuel, &c. you may do it before the fpring comes 

To plant a coppice, fet your plants on too much : take great caie to pie- 
in trenches, not fovv feeds, for they are vent the carters from brufhing againffc 
tedious incoming forwaid, and will the young ::ancian!s, and let ail your 
tire one's patience in weeding them, wood be carrier! out 'by Midfummer, 
About four plants in twelve het and made up by the end of J%f\\\ at 
fquare, and at regular diit-ances, fo the farther} ; for if the rows and brufh 
that the benefit ot ploughirg mig w t lie longer unbound or unmade up, it 
not be loft ; and then at fix or feven will fpoil many of the young fh-ots 
year's growth, plafh., by laying the and feedlings. If, the winter be- 
whole fhoot, end and all, under the fore you 'fell, you enclofe it fo as to 
earth in the trenches, which will fhoot keep ail caitle out of it, your care 
forth innumerable iiiues. - and trouble will be well reconit enfed. 

In raifing coppices, great care ought Your elder underwood may be 
to be taken that tie wood they are to grazed about July, si in, winter, but, 
be compofed of be fuch as is proper loi a general role, newly weaned calves 
for rhe foil you raife them on. and are the teati prejudicial to new cut 
that it be proper for the ufes you de- wood, where there is abundance o| 
fjgn to fell it for, which you mult be gr3fs ; and fome fay colts of a yea^ 
regulated in by the vend you have; old; hut then they muft be driven out 
and let the profits refulting from your by the beginning of May at fai theft, 
under-wood regulate the thicknefs of However, il nothing at all be fuffe.ed 
your ftandards ; for in proportion as to come in, it will be better, Jn this 
Vol. I. 1 i every 



COR 



COR 



every man's experience muft direft 
him. 

If your woods happen to be cropt 
by cattle, it will be better to cut them 
down, and they will then make frefh 
(hoots ; whereas what has been bit by 
the cattle, will otherwife be ftunted 
for feveral years before it will take to 
its growth. 

CORAL-TREE [Erythnna.] A 
tr«e of America, of which there are 
feveral forts j propagated by feeds and 
cuttings. 

CORD or Wood, is four feet long, 
four feet high, and eight feet long. 

CORDIAL Balls, of Dr. Bracken, 
are thus made : 

Take annifeed, carraway-feed, and 
greater cardamoms, finely powdered, 
of each one ounce, flour of brimftone 
two ounces, turmeric in fine powder 
one ounce and a half, faffron two 
drams. Spanifh juice diffolved in 
water, two ounces, oil of annifeed 
half an o'ince, liquorice- pewder one 
ounce and a half, wheat-flour, a fuf- 
ficient quantity, to make into a (tiff 
parte, by beating all the ingredients 
well in a mortar. 

Thefe balls confift of warm open- 
ing ingredients ; and, given in fmall 
quantities, about the fize of a pullet's 
egg, will encourage a free perfpira- 
tion ; but, in cafe of a fever, fhould 
be cautioufly continued. They are 
much more efficacious, and in all cafes 
fuperior to the farrier's di enches, if 
diffolved in a pint of warm ale. 

CORE, a diforder incident to fheep, 
occafioned by worms in their liver, 
refembling a plaice, or flounder. 

A fheep, if chiefly fed with hay, 
will live a year after being affected with 
this di ft em per, by which time he will 
have a water bladder as large as an 
ejg. under his throat ; at the lame 
time his eyes, mouth, and gums, will 
be white. 

If any fheep in a flock core during 
the winter, it will be eaf:ly feen at 
fhearing time ; for fuch fheep will be 
poorer than the reft ; their wool aifo 
will run into threads, twifting toge- 
ther at the ends, and look fomewhat 
like teats. The laft particular is not 
however a certain fign of a fheep's 
being cojed ; for fometimes the wool 
of very fjund fheep will be apt to run 
together into threads ; and the finer 
the wool the more apt it is to qtvift 



together in that manner. There is n» 
method of curing this diftemper hi- 
therto known. 

CORIANDER, [Conundrum.] The 
name ©f a plant formerly much cul- 
tivated in England ; but at prefent lit- 
tle of it is fown. 

The feeds fhould be fown in autumn 
on rich land ; and when the plants 
are come up, they fhould be hoed out 
to about four inches diftance, every 
way, clearing them from weeds. By 
the above management, the plants 
will grow ftrong,and produce a greater 
quantity of good feed^. 

CORK-TREE, [Suber.'] A fort 
of oak growing in the warmer parts 
of Europe, and is not uncommon in 
England. 

CORN, a general name for grain 
that grows in ears. 

CORN-BOTTLE, [Centaury.] 
Greater Centaury, Knap-weed, Blue- 
bottle. There are a great number 
of fpecies of this plant cultivated in 
botanic gardens, fome of which grow 
wild in the fields in England, and are 
often troublefome weeds, and to this 
genus belong the Batchelor's Buttons, 
S weet Sul tan, CaduiisBenedictus,&c. 

CORN-CROWFOOT, a weed very 
common among the corn. It has an 
upright ftalk ; the leaves are of a pale 
green, and cut into long, narrow, a- 
cute fegments. The flowers are much 
fmaller and paler than the crowfoot of 
the paflures •. but the feed-ve!:'els are 
the molt remarkable, being covered 
all over with prickles. 

CORN-FLAG, a very troublefome 
weed, multiplying exceedingly by its 
roots. It has a round comprtffed tu- 
berous root, which is of a yellowifh 
colour, 2nd covered with a brown fur- 
rowed fkin, like that of the vernal 
crocus. From this root arife two 
flat fword-fhaped leaves, which em- 
brace each other at their bafe ; and 
between thefe arifes the flower (talk, 
which grows near two feet high, hav- 
ing one or two narrow leaves embra- 
cing it like a fheath. This ftalk is 
terminated by five or fix purple flow- 
ers, (landing above each other at foma 
diftance, and ranged on one fide of the 
(talk ; each of thefe has a fheath, 
which covers the flower-bud, before 
it expands, but fplits open length- 
ways when the flowers blow, and af- 
terwards flirivels up to a dry fkin, 
which 






COR 



COR 



which remains about the feed-veffcl, 
till the feeds are i ipe, which is in the 
beginning of Auguft. The flowers 
come out in the beginning of May, or 
in June. Some of thtfe flowers are 
white, and others rlefh-coloured. 

Coin flag is extremely difficult to 
root'out, as every part of the root will 
grow. The beft manner of extirpa- 
ting it is, that already mentioned un- 
der the article Colts-foot^ 

CORN-MARYGOLD, The name 
of a very troublefome weed, of which 
there ate two fpecies, ore common in 
corn-fields, and the other in moift 
failures. The leaves of the firft fort 
embrace the (talks, the upper being 
jagged, and the lower indented like a 
faw. The fecond is, by C. Bauhine, 
called the Greater Wild Dairy, with 
a leafy tlalk It rifes with ftalks near 
two leet high, garnifhed with oblong 
indented leaves, which embrace the 
flalks with their bafe. Each of thefe 
fialks is terminated by one white flow- 
er, fhaped like that of the daify, but 
four times as large. 

The corn -mary gold has a peren- 
nial woody root, which finking deep 
requires a confiderable quantity of 
food, and therefore mud be a great 
enemy to the corn. Confiderable pains 
muft be taken before this weed can 
be extirpated, as it is highly probable, 
that, befides multiplying by its roots, 
its feed will grow, it ploughed in, as 
that of the garden marygold will do 
when dug in. Deep and repeated 
hoeings are therefore necelTary, before 
it runs to feed. Dreffings of chalk and 
clay gerer; lly dt-ftroy it. 

CORN-PARSLEY, the name of a 
low branching piant common among 
corn. The branches grow thick to- 
gether, and are knotted and cocked. 
The flowers grow clcfe together after 
the manner of parfley, and are cf a 
white colour inclining to yellow. The 
feeds are large in proportion to the 
plant; and are fet about with little 
crooked bridles ; which make them 
adhere to the ltockings in great plenty, 
when the feeds are ripe ; which is ge- 
nerally about haryeft. 

CORN-S ALLET^FalerianaLocuJla.] 
It is cultivated as a fallad herb for the 
fpring, but, having a flrong tafte 
which is not agreeable to many pa- 
lates, it is not fo much in ufe as it 
was formerly j it is propagated by 



feeds, which fhould be fown the latter 
end of Auguft, then the firft rains 
will bring up the plants, which fhould 
be hoed to thin them where they are 
too clofe, and to deflroy the weeds. 
Early in the fpring the plants will be 
fit for ufe. The younger the plants 
are when ufed, the lefs (trcng will be 
their tafte, fo they may fupply the ta- 
ble in a fcarcity of other herbs. When 
the feeds of this fort are fown in the 
fpring, if the feafon proves dry, the 
plants will not appear till autumn or 
the fpring following; betides, in fum- 
mer the herb is not fo fit for ufe. The 
feeds of this plant have been known 
to lie in the ground many years, when 
they have happened to be buried deep, 
and upon being turned up to the air, 
the plants have come up as thick as if 
the fteds had been newly fown. 

CORN-VIOLET, a kind of wild 
violet growing among corn. 

CORNELIAN Cherry-fee, [Cornut.} 
Dogwood. The fpecies ate, i. Female 
Dogwood. 2. Male Cornel. 3. Male 
Virginia Dogwood. 4. Female Vir- 
ginian Dogwood. 5. Wild Tartarian 
Dogwood. 6. Low herbaceous Dog- 
wood, or Dwarf Honeyfuckle. 

All the forts of Dogwood may be 
propagated by their feeds, which, if 
fown in autumn loon after they are 
ripe, will molt of them come the fol- 
lowing fpring; but, if the feeds are 
not fown in autumn, they will lie a 
year in the ground before the plants 
will appear ; and, when the feafon 
proves dry, they will fometimes re- 
main two yearsin the ground : there- 
fore the place fhould not be difturbed 
where thefe feeds are fown under two 
years, if the plants fhould not come 
up fooner. When the plants are come 
up, they fhould be duly watered in 
dry weather, and kept clean from 
weeds, and the autumn following they 
may be removed and planted in beds 
in the nurfery wherethsy muft remain 
two years, by which time they will be 
fit to trarfpiant where they are to re- 
main for good. 

They are alfo propagated by fuck- 
ers, and laying down of the branches. 
Moft of the forts produce plenty of 
fuckers, efpecially when they are 
planted on a moift foil, which may 
be taken off from the old plants in 
autumn, and planted into a nurfery 
for a year or two, and then may be 
I i z tranfplanted 



COS 



COS 



tranl-planted into the places where they 
are to remain ; but thofe plants which 
are propagated by fuckers, rarely have 
fo.good 'oots as thofe which are pro.- 
pagner! by l.yers. 

CORN-ROSE. Wild poppy. 

CORROBORANTS. Strength- 
ened. 

COR.i.OSJ.V^ that defboy.s, that 
tats away. 
' COST-1A ARY , [Fe'fatpite »w.]-This 
was foruiti ly a v. : y common garden 
plant, and ol frequent ufe both for 
culinary and medicinal purpofes ; but 
is at prcfcnt very little, regarded for 
either ; though it fhouid feem, from 
its fc fihle qualities, to be. equal or 
fuperior, as a medicine, to fome aro- 
matic herbs, which pra£Uce has re- 
tained. The leaves have a hittenfh 
warm aromatic tafte; and. a very plea- 
fent fmell, appioach.ing to 'hat of 
mint, era mixiureof mint and maud. 
lin. Water elevates their flavour in 
diftillaticn ; and reclined fpjrit ex- 
tracts it by infufiont 

COSTUS. A root brought from 
the E-lt Indies. Authors mention 
two forts of coftus, fweet and bitter : 
in the fhops we feldom meet with 
any more than one, the cojius Jukis cjfi- 
ciparum. This root is ahout the l>ze 
of the finger ; and conhfts of a yel- 
lowifh woody part, inclofed within a 
whitifh hark ; the former is very tough, 
of no fmell, and very little tafte ; the 
cortical part brittle,- of a warm, bit- 
terifh, aromatic tafte, and an agree- 
able finely fpmewhat refemhling that 
of violets o Florentine orris. Coftus 
is; faid to attenuate vifcid humours, 
to promote expectoration, perfpira- 
tion, and urine. At prefent it is rare- 
ly met with in prefoription, and not 
often in the (hops; in mithsidate and 
iheriaqa, the only officinal competi- 
tions it is directed in, zedoary fup- 
plies its pla.ee. 

CORONET, the lowcft part of a 
hoi'fe's pattern, which runs round the 
Coffin, and isdiftinguifhed by the hair 
which joins and covers the upper part 
of the hoof. 

COSH. A pod. 

COSSART, or Caffz Lamb, a lamb 
left by its dam's dying before it is ca- 
pable of fhifting for itfelf; or it is a 
lamb taken from a ewe that brings 
'svo, three, or four lambs at a yean- 
ing, and confequejUly is incapable ©f 



bringing tbtrn all up. Thjt. word is 
alio applied to a cok, call, Sec. 

In either of thefe cafes, i; there be 
not another ewe at liberty to fuckie 
it, it muft be hrcu-ght up by hind, or 
perifh. By an ewe at libe: ty is meant 
one that has, by feme accident, loft 
her. iamb, and has .r.iik erv&Ug-h to 
fuckie a lamb yeaned by another. 

COS 1IVEKESS, a comprint to 
which horfes are often fabje& ; !ome- 
times occasioned by violent antl hard 
exercile, elpecialiy in hot weather j 
and fomerimes by ftanding long at 
hard meat, with- ut grafs, or < titer 
cleanfmg diet, and with veiy little 
exercife. 

The >:ure for this complaint is eafy, 
only by giving him an open ■ et for 
fome time; anc! il any rhing more is 
waiting lenitive mild pur;>t s are the 
molt iikely tofucceed : >uch.'S Glau- 
ber's f:.lis wi;h lenitive electuary, four 
ounces of each. difToive'i in warm ale 
or water, and repeated every other 
day. This, with fcalded bran given 
every day, Will remove the complaint, 
and carry off the vifcid flime engen- 
dered in the guts, which is generally 
the caufe of his coftiven-.fs. 

But there is another kin 1 of cofriye- 
nefs in horfes, which is math harder 
to be removed, viz. that which feems 
to be natural, or grown into a habit. 
We find fome very good horfes liable 
to this diforder; and, when it is of 
long continuance, they are apt to grow 
lean and emaciated, (eel hot and dry,, 
their hair flaring, and there is danger 
of fome approaching ficknefs 

This diforder is not eafily removed ; 
nor is it often neotlTary to bring fuch 
horfes into a contrlry habit; for where 
this is natural, it may proceed from a 
more than ordinary ftiength and rigi- 
dity in the fm all fibres of the ftomach 
and guts, which make them digeft their 
aliment well, and retain their excre- 
ments longer ; and when fuch a habit 
can be kept within any proper medi- 
um, the horfe will continue in ftrength 
and vigour, without any inconveni- 
ence 5 and it is obfervable, that thefe 
horfes are. for the molt part, able to 
endure great fatigue and labour. How- 
ever, it is proper to give fuch horfes, 
at all convenient times, an opening 
diet. For if this habit happens, by 
an accident, to grow into habitual 
coftivenefs, fo as to produce ill eftefts, 



c o u 



COT 



as heat, drynefs of the con-fHtution, 
little ft-ahhy eruptions over the fkin, 
and a rough coat, it will then be ne- 
eeffery to icmove it in lo»u d^refe, 
which cannot be done but by a conti- 
nual ufc of emollients, joined by a 
ipole opening diet 

Purging i.. here alfo neceffary, and 
ought by all means to be complied 
with : but purging in rbe common 
•way wjth Raibadocs or ot!?er planta- 
tion aloes, fddom has any p/eat effect 
longei than the purge is noticing ; for 
when that is over, the fame habit of 
coltivene-fs genet ally returns ?* rtrnng 
as ever. Scalded bran, and the com- 
mon opening diet, feldom mnke» any 
great alteration in thefe horfes. The 
aloetic purges willfc-iictly work, efpe- 
cially if they are made ftrong, for they 
then chi«% run eff by urine, which 
does the creature little fervice in- this 
cafe. But after the cerntnon purges 
have failed, the following wiilfucceed 
beyond expectation. 

Take fuccotrine aloes, fix d-iams; 
fpermaerti, half an ounce ; fcenugreek 
feeds in powder, two ounces : make 
the whole Into two ba.ls, with a fuf- 
ficiem quantity of honey, or common 
treacle, and give them in a morning 
falling. 

Let the horfe have fc aided barley 
iu&tad r>: fcalded bran, and the liquor 
of thebailev for his drink^ milk warm-. 
This will work very gently, where 
ftronger purges have little-other effect 
upon cofi ive horfes than to make them 
lick. Jt ought to be repeated once in 
feur days, and may be continued till 
ht has taken fix dozes. Let him have 
an ounce of f«snugreek feeds once a 
day, in one of his mafhes, and when 
the purgation is over, continue the 
ufe of the fcenugreek; and fometimes 
give linfeed in the f.-rme maimer, ei- 
ther in his dry or moil"! feeds, until the 
liorfe grows fmooth and well coated, 
and his dung moift and in good order. 

COTYLEDONS; rinds, or hulks. 

COUCH CRASJ>, [Gi-amm cent- 
num-] Is one of the worft of weeds 
among corn, and one ol the moft dif- 
ficult to extirpate in arable land ; e- 
very- joint of its long creeping roots 
being capable of foon producing a new 
plant, after thofe roots have been 
broken by the plough. The ufual way 
of delhoying it, is by- laying the land 
fallow iniumroer, ?.nd frequently har- 
rowing it well over, to draw out the 



roots, every piece of which flicuM 
the 1 be burnt, lor the reafon already 
mentioned. Where this is carefully 
done, the ground may be fo well 
ck-snfed in one fummer, that the re- 
maining roots will not d-> any great 
irjury to the enfung crop: bur the 
belt way is to fow the land in which 
this weed pievaih with fuch plants as '• 
require the horfe- hoeing culture. The 
blade of this grafs is fo rough, that 
cattle will n.pt feed upon it when f> 

green, o icsdfax <?1 /lJ/t/??~<?Zaj* 

COTTON, (Ub/fy} mm.'] The forts C 
are, |. Cotton with leaves having five 
lobes, and an herbaceous ftalk. z. 
Cotton with entire leaves, having three 
lobes. 3. Cotton with hand fhaped 
leaves, having five fpear fh.iped lobes, 
and a fhrobby ftalk. 4. Fineft Ame- 
rican Cotton with a green feed. 

The firft fbit is the crmmon i evant 
cotton, which is cultivated in feveral 
iflands of the Archipelago, as alfo in 
Malta, Sicily^ and the kingdom of Na- 
ples; it is fown in tilled ground in the 
fpting of the year, and is ripe in about 
four months after, when it is cut 
down in harvefl as corn in England, 
the plants always perifhmg foon after 
th'.- feeds are ripe : this plant grows a- 
buit two feet high with an herbaceous 
ft»H<, garnifived withfmocth leaves di- 
vided into five lobes. The (Talks fend 
out a few weak tranches upward, 
which aregarnifhed with leaves of the 
fame form, but are fmalier. The flow- 
ers are produced at the extremity of 
the branches ; thefe have two large 
empalements, the outer is cut into 
three parts, and the -inner into five. 
The petals of the flower are of a 
pale yellow colour, inclining to white; 
thefe are fucceeded by oval capfules, 
which open in four parts, having four 
celis, which are filled with feeds, 
wrapt up in a down, which is the 
cotton. 

The fecond fort grows naturally in 
feveral iflands of the Weft- Indies; 
this rifes with a fhrubby fmooth ftalk 
four or five' feet high, fending out a 
few fide branches, which arega-rnifhed 
withfmcoth leaves, divided into three 
lobes. The flowers are produced at 
the end of the branches, which are 
fhaped like thofe of the former fort, 
but arc larger, and of a deeper yellow 
colour. The .pod? are larger, and the 
feeds are black. 

That 



COT 



C O U 



The third fort has a perennial 
flnruhby ftalk, which lifes fix or eight 
feet high, and divides into many bran- 
ches, which are fmooth, :;nd garnifhed 
with hand-fhaped leaves, having four 
or five lobes. The flowers are pro- 
duced at the end of the branches; 
thefe a>e larger than thofe of the two 
former forts, and are of a deep yellow 
colour. '1 lie pods of this fort are 
larger than thofe of the former. 

The four; h fort is a native of the 
Eaft »i*l Weft Indies ; this is an an- 
nual plant, w ith perifhes foon after 
the feeds aie ripe. It rifes to the 
height of three feet or more, and fer.ds 
out many lateral bianches where they 
arc allowed room to giow ; thefe are 
hairy, and garnifhed with leaves, hav- 
ing in fome three, and others five a- 
cute -pointed h«iiy lobes. The flow- 
ers are piodueed irom the fide, and at 
the ends of the branches, which are 
large, o: a dirty fulphur colour, each 
petal having i tigr purple fpot at the 
bafe ; the flowers are fut,cee<!ed by o- 
val pods, which open in four cells, 
fi;led with ollong green feeds, wrap- 
ped up in a foft down. The ftaple of 
this is much finer than either of the 
other fyecies, therefore it is well worth 
theattemion of the inhabitants of the 
Britifh colonies in America to culti- 
vate and improve this fort, fince it 
will fucceed in Carolina, where it has 
been cultivated for fome years ; and 
might be a commodity worthy of en- 
cout igement liy the public, could they 
contrive a proper engine to ftparate the 
cotton from the feeds, to which this 
fort adheres much clofer than any of 
theo'her forts, the cotton troni this 
flirub bein^ preferable to any other 
yet kno n. 

All thefe forts are tender plants, 
therefore will not thrive in the open 
air in England, hut tliey are frequent- 
ly fown in curious gardens for variety; 
the firft, and touitli forts will produce 
ripe feeds in E; gland, if their feeds 
are fown eariy in the fpring, upon a 
good hot-bed, and the plants after- 
war s planted each into feparate pots, 
and plunged into a hot-bed of tanners 
bark to bring them forward ; when 
they are grown too tall to remain un- 
der the frames, they fhould be re- 
moved into the tan bed in the ftov.';, 
and fhifted into larger pots, if their 
jeots have filled the other 3 with this 



management their flowers will appear 
in July, and towards the end of Sep- 
tember the feeds will ripen, and the 
pods will be as large as thofe produced 
in the Eaft and Weft Indies; but if 
the plants are not brought forward 
early in the fpring, it will be late in 
the fummer before the flowers will 
appear, and there will be no hopes of 
the pods coming to perfection. 

The fhrub cotton will rife from 
the feeds veryeafily, if they are fown 
upon a good hot-bed; and when they 
are fown early in the fpring, and 
brought forward in the fame manner 
as hath been direcled for the former 
forts, the plants will grow to be five 
or fix feet high the fame fummer; 
but it is difficult to p'eferve the plants 
during the winter, unlefs they are 
hardened gradually in Auguft during 
the continuance of the warm weather; 
for when they are forced on in fum- 
mer, they will be fo tender as to ren- 
der them incapaMe of refifting the 
leaft injury. The plants of this fort 
muft be placed in the hark Move in 
autumn, and kept in the firft clafs of 
heat, otherwife they will not live 
through the winter in England. 

Silk COTTON Tree, [Bo>,bax.~\ The 
forts are, 1. Silk Cotton-tree with a 
prickly ftalk. 2. Silk Cotton-tree 
with fmooth ftems. 3. Silk Cotton- 
tres with leaves cut into feveral parts. 
The firft and fecond forts grow na- 
turally in both Indies, where they ar- 
rive to a great magnitude. 

In theautumn they muft be removed 
into the bark-ftove, where they muft 
conftantly remain, being too tender to 
thrive in this country in any other fi- 
tuaticn. In winter they muft have 
but little wet, efpecialiy if they caft 
their leaves ; but in the fummer they 
fhould be frequently refreshed with 
\vater,and in w.rm weather muft have 
plenty cf frefh air admitted to them. 

The plants require a large ftove 
where t!.ey may have room to grow, 
but as they are feveral years old before 
they flower in the countries where they 
grow naturally, fo there is little hopes 
of their producing any in England. 
COTTON-WEED. Goldylocks. 
COUGH-WORT. Coltsfoot. 
COVERT. Sheltered place, not, » 
open . ff/te ft $z s^f, Set-- OS/i*7J> 

COUGH, [T«/£>.] See Cold. 

This ii a diforder fo well understood. 

that 



C O V 



c o u 



that it cannot be mirtaken, nor does 
it need any explanation. 

Boil in a quirt -of ale three ounces 
of frefh liquorice-root, beat very fine 
into threads. Strain the liquor off, 
prefling it hard, and add to it three 
drams of elecampane powder, one 
dram of powder of annifeeds, a quar- 
ter of a pint of oil, and a quarter of 
a pound of hcney ; mix all well, and 
give it warm. If it does not take ef- 
fect the firft time, let it be repeated 
three or four times, and it feldom 
fails. 

Balls for a cold of long ftanding. 

Put into a large bowl fix pounds of 
wheat meal, mix with it two ounces 
of powder of annifeeds, cummin 
feed one ounce, linked three ounces, 
fcenugreek feed one ounce and a half; 
ftii thefe well about, then mix half a 
pound of liquorice powder, and a 
quarter of a pound of flour of biim- 
itone, add thefe to the reft. Laftly, 
add bay-berries and juniper berries, 
powdered, three ounces of each, and 
the fame quantity of powder, of ele- 
campane. 

When all are well ftirred and mixed 
together, break fix e^gs, throw away 
the whites, beat up the yolks with 
two quarts of mountain wine. Add 
to this a pound and a half of honey, 
and a pint of falLd oil. Mix all thefe 
perfectly well together; then bring in 
the powder, and work the whole to a 
parte. If this fhouid be too fiiff, a 
little more wine mult be added ; and, 
if too foft, fome flour muft be put 
in, till the whole be of fuch a con- 
fidence that it will conveniently roll 
into balls. 

Thefe are to be made of the big- 
nefs of a hen's egg, but round. This 
rolling them up is only for the conve- 
nience of keeping, when they are to 
be ufed they are to be difTolved. Two 
is the proper quantity for a dofe, and 
they are to bi melted in the creature's 
water, morning and evening, fifteen 
days. 

COULTER, a part of the plough 
which cuts the earth before the fhare. 

COUPLE. Two. 

COUPLE. The ewe and lamb. „ 

COURSING LAWS, or Laws of 
the Leafh, as fettled and commanded by 
Thomas, Duke of Norfolk. 

That he who is chofen fewterer, or 
letter-loofe o£ the grey-hounds, fhall 



receive the grey-hounds match'd t» 
run together into hi-, leafh, as foon as 
he come into the field, and to follow 
next to the hare finder till he come un- 
to the form : and no horfeman nor 
footman, on pain of difgrace, to go 
before them, or on either fide, but di- 
rectly behind, the fpace of forty yards, 
or thereabouts. 

That not above one brace of grey- 
hounds do courfe a hare at one inltant. 

That the hare-finder fha<l give the 
hare three fo-ho's, before they put her 
from the lair, to make the grey-hounds 
gaze and attend her rifing. 

That the fewterer iha 1 give the hare 
twelve-fccre law, before he loofe the 
grey-hounds, except it be in danger of 
lofnig fight. 

That dog that giveth the firft turn, 
(if alter the turn be given, there be 
neither coat, flip, nor wrench extra- 
ordinary, fha;l be held to win the 
wager. 

If one dog gave the firft turn, and 
the other bear the hare, then he which 
bore the hare fhall win. 

If one dog give both the firft turn 
and laft turn, and no other advantage 
between them, thatoddturn fhall win 
the wager. 

That a coat fhall be more than two 
turns, and a go-by, or the bearing of 
the hare, equal with two turns. 

If neither dog turn the hare, then he 
which leadeth laft, at the covert, fhall 
be held to win the wager. 

If one dog turn the hare, ferve him- 
felf, and turn her again, thofe two 
turns fhall be as much as a coat. 

If ail the courfe be equal, then he 
only which bears the hare fhall win; 
and if fhe be not borne, then the 
courfe muft be adjudged dead. 

If he which comes firft into the 
death of the hare, takes her up and 
faves her fiom breaking, cherifheth the 
dogs, and cleanfeth their mouths from 
the wool, or other filth of the hare,, 
for fuch courtefy done, he fhall in cour- 
tefy challenge the hare, but not doing 
it, he fhall have no right, privelege or 
title therein. 

If any dog (hall take a fall in the 
courfe, and yet pevform his part, he 
fhall challenge ad^ antage of a turn 
more than he giveth. 

If one dog turn the hare, ferve him- 
felf, and give divers coats, yet in th* 
end ftand ftill in the field, the other 

dog 



cow- 



cow 



dogwithout turn giving, running home mm take the following rates for his di- 
to the covert, that dog wi.ich flood &ill reclicr. in their choice Let them have 
in the field, (bail be then adjudged to tin: forehead broad and open j the eyes 
lofe the wager, large BK>4 f u 11. 3rd, excepting oi4y the 
If any man (hall ride over a dog, I>utch and Alderney breeds, which are 
and overthiow him in his ccurfe^tho' naturally fhort hon.ed, let the horrw be 
the dog was theworfe dog in opinion) b:ge, tie n, and fair. 
yet the party for offence (hail either They have in fonit part of Bucking- 
receive the difgrace of the field, or pay hamfhire alio, a kind that have nO 
the wager ; tor between the parties, it horns, tliey call thefe the polled breed. 
(hall be adjudged no courfe. They are to be chosen principally by 

Thofe which are chofen judges of the breadth of their forehead; for their,, 

the leafh, (hall give their judgments e>es are ief- full by nature, than thofe 

prelently before they depart from the of many of the othtr kinds, 
field, or elfe he, in whole default it Of what breed your cow be, let her 

lieth, (hall pay the wager by a general neck be long and thin ; her belly deep 

vaics and fentence. and large. Let her thighs be thick. 

COW. The cow being chiefly in- her legs round and well-fhaped, and 

tended lor the fervice cf the dairy, a her feet large. Above all things fee 

great deal of care is to be taken in the that the have a large, good, white, and 

puichafing a right kind, for there is a clean looking udder, with four ful!- 

vaft difference in the profit of this a- grown teats. 



nimal, according to the breed from 
which (he comes. 

They have large cows in all thofe 
counties where they breed the laige 
oxen j but the fize is not all the huf- 
bandman is to confider : the quan- 
tity of milk is not always propoitioned 
to the bigDefs of the beaft j and that 
is to be hii chiet regard. 

The Welch and Scotch cows will do 
upon the poorell pr-fturei. They will 



Of whatever breed the cows be, let 
the bull be of the fame. And let them 
generally be of as large a kind as the 
padures will fupport in health and 
(liength. But it is better to have a 
cow ot a fmaller kind well fed ; than 
one of the belt breed in the world 
ltarvcd. 

It is a general observation among 
the farmers, that the red cow gives the 
beff milk, and the black cow is beft 



fuit fome who cannot rife to the price ot" for her caif , which is ufually fairer and 



the better kinds j and they will yield a 
very good quantity of milk, if rightly 
managed ; but tht fine kinds are the 
Dutch and Alderney cows, thefe are 
very like one another in fhape, aiid in 
their gooclnefs, but the Alderney cow 
is preferable ; becaufe ihi is hardier. 
1 he fine Dutch breed have long lege, 



healthier than that of the red. But 
this is not founded on fae>, it is rather 
fancy. The red cow's milk has been 
Ions famous; and a calf of a black 
cow is accounted good to a proverb ; 
but the breed is the thing of confe- 
quence, not the colour. 

1 he cow that gives milk longeft i* 



(hort horns, and a lull body. They the m»<ft profitable to thehufbandman; 



are to be had in Kent and Siiffex, and 
fome other places where they are (till 
carelully kept up without mixture in 
colour, and where they will yield two 
gallons at a milking j b-.it in order to 
this they require great attendance, and 
the belt of food. 

The Alderney Cow is like the Dutch 
in the fhortnefs of her horns, but flic 
is fomewhat (fronger built, and is not 
quite fo tender. She requires rich 
feeding j but is not liable to fo many 
accidents us the other, and is equal to 
her in the quantity and natural good- 
nefs of her milk. 

Of which ever kind the hufband- 
man determines te have his cows, let 



-f 



rable both fpr the calf and fol^y . 



and from what we haveobferved. this 
is mot'llythe cafe with thofe which are 
neither very joung, nor advanced into 
years . 

The beft t ime for them to calve is 
in the beginning of Apiil, this ismoft 
iavourable both 
the dai 

The hufbandinan fhould take care 
to know rightly the ti.niof his cowT 
being to ca ve ;"^nd three wicks before 
that, he is tofeed her better than ufual. 
She fhoul ' be put into a rich pafture, 
if the feafbn be fo advanced that ther$ 
is a good growth Of graf :ny where: 
if not, (he mud be fed well with good. 
hay. And this will be returned many 

fold 

yL fL feu w&s 4 O &> ee/& 

A> s/t ? Ysi £c i fatf/U Wru/SL 



cow 



cow 



fold In the profits of her milk, which 
will rife in proportion to the care that 
is taken to feed her well juft at this 
time. 

When fhe>has calv'd let her he kept 
that day and night in the houfe, and 
let the water be a little warmed that 
fhe drinks. She is to be turned out the 
next day, in the heat of the fun if well; 
but fhe fhould be taken in at night for 
two or three days following, and fome 
water a little warmed fhould be given 
her before fhe is turned out in the 
morning. 
f , fv In hard weather in the winte r, cows 
that _give a good deal of milk , mould 
'/// sift k e ^ in F ro P ort i orl 5 an d that fhould 
' be fine hay every morning and even- 
ing, when the ground is covered with 
fnow ; and at other times once a day, 
as there may be found occafion. 

When a cow does not yield milk e- 
nough at thefe feafons, to pay the price 
of a good feeding with hay, let the fod- 
der be hay and flraw mixed ; crif ftiil 
worfe, let it be flraw alone. But then 
— it muft be oat (traw, for barley firaw 
has a particular effect in drying up a 
cow's milk ; and if given to her in this 
condition, becaufe the quantity fhe 
yielded wpgld not pay for better fod- 
der, the confequence would be that fhe 
would yield none after a very few days 
feeding. 

When the farmer has a fcarcity of 
hay, or the price is very high, let him 
give the cows which he defires to keep 
— in milk, malt dull, fcalded with boil- 
ing water. The malt duft fwells up 
vaftly with the water; and when it 
has (toed to be almoft cold, it is to be 
given the cow in the manner of a 
mafh. 

If the cow have this at times, fhe 
may be fed with any kind of ftrav?; for 
this breeds milk fo well, that the other 
food will not be able to dry it up, 
while the creature has the advantage of 
its affiftance at the fame time. 

About London they feed their cows 
very much with grains. This is a diet 
that caufes them to yield much milk ; 
but it gives it an ill tafle ; and is un- 
healthful for the cow, fubjecling her to 
*/ j0r- many diforders. The malt duft is as 
cheap, and anfwers the frmepurpofein 
a much fmaller quantity, and without 
the danger of illnefs, or hurting the 
milk. It may be bought at three- 
pence a bufhe), and it fwells fo much 
-Vol.* I. ■- 



in the wetting, that this quantity will 
very well laft a cow a week. 

In February, when the pafturage 
is eaten bare, the cows are to be taken 
up into the cow-houfe, and fed with 
dry meat, according to their quantity 
of milk ; thofe which yield the molt 
being the beft fed to keep them to it j 
and the others in proportion. 

Milch cows mould not be blooded 
unlefs there b e preffing o ccafions, and 
in that cafe the quantity fhouid be mo- 
derate, never more than about fixteen 
ounces. 

The difference there is between one 
cow and another, in the quantity of 
their milk, is fo great, that there can 
no exact rule be laid down for their 
management in times when feeding 
comes dear ; the beft that can be faid 
is, that in proportion to the profit the 
creature brings, fhould be allowed an 
expence in feeding : for a cow may be 
kept alive, in health, nay and in tole- 
rable fiefh, for much lefs than fhe can 
be fed for the continuing to yield her 
quantity of milk. 

The demand there is for the milk 
and the cow, and the profit that may 
be at any time made by felling both, is 
to be confidered ; for the fame thing 
is worth much more in one place, and 
at one time, than another, in propor- 
tion to thefe accidents. 

In the neighbourhood of London 
there is fo constant and certain a de- 
mand for every thing, that the cow- 
keeper, partly with his early and late 
rank grafs, partly with hay, and partly 
with turnips and grains, feeds his cows 
in fuch a manner, that they are at the 
fame time in their higheft perfection 
for milk, and at any time fit for the 
butcher. But this is not to be done 
elfewhere. 

The difference between the milk of 
thefe cows, however, and thofe fed in 
the country, is very great, and all the 
advantage is on the country fed cow's 
fide. The grains make the milk poor, 
tho' they yield a large quantity. 

The price of grazing ground about 
London is very great indeed, but this 
is very well anfwered in the prefent 
article, by the price at which the milk 
is fold. This poor milk being fold 
at three- pence the quart, very bad 
meafure, while in the country, but 
half a day's journey from London, 'tis 
a penny the Winchefler quart ; and in 
K k font* 



cow 



C R A 






fome places the milk quart is full three bels, are white, and confifl of five ir- 
wine pints, while the London quart of regular petals: two oval, ftreaked, 
milk is lefs than a wine quart. compreffedfeeds,furroundedbyawing, 

A cow in a good farming country, fucceed each flower, 
where provifions are at a middling COW- WHEAT, by fome ca!led/c.v- 
price, is fuppofed, while in milk, to be tail, is a pernTcjous weed in many 
worth five pounds a year. This is countries. Its le§s- is fomething like 
reckoning her to yield about four hun- wheat, and, accoiding,to Clufius, fpoiJs 
dred gallons in that time, which, with the meal, with which it is ground, by 
proper management, is a very decent giving it a dark colour, and a bitter 
computation. tafte : though Mr. Ray fays he could 

If the whole quantity of milk yielded never perceive any difagreeable relilh 
by a middling cow be made into but- in the bread with which it was mixed, 
ter, the quantity will be about two Mr. Miller fays it is a delicious food for 
hundred weight a year ; and there will cattle, particularly forfattening of oxen 
be a value befide in the fkim'd milk and cows, and that it may be worth 
cheefe, and in the whey, which laft while to cultivate it for that purpofe. 
ferves for the feeding of hogs. From Its feeds feldom grow the fii it year, 
this, which is counting at a moderate unlets they chance to be fown, or fow 
rate, we may fee the importance ot themfelves, in the autumn, foon after 
this creature to the farmer, efpecially they are ripe. 

if he take care to keep her in tolerable COW-SLIP, [Paralyfis.] Afpeciesof 
flefh all the time, fo that upon a fhort primrofe, which grows naturally in 
notice for fattening, fhe may be ready meadows and moid paftures; the flow- 
for the butcher. ers of which grow in bunches on the 

There is another ufe to which the top of the foot-ftalk ; the flowers are 
milch cow is put in fome places, and much ufed in medicine, and fome- 
which fhould be here brought to ac- times the leaves. As thefe grow wild, 
count, that is, the fuckling of calves, their roots may be taken up, and tranf- 
A good cow will fuckle fou£ calves planted into gardens, 
befides her own, and grains will then The befl time to tranfplant them 
be a confiderable article in her food, is at Michaelmas, that their roots may 
for a great part of the year. In this have itren^th to produce their flowers 
way of feeding, though the milk be early in the fpring. Thefe delight in 
poor, there is always a great deal of a ftrong rich foil, but will grow in al- 
it ; and dien, though bad for the ufes molt any fort of earth, provided they 
of the dairy, it is very fit for the breed- have a fhady fituation, 
ing up of calves. 

COW- LEASE . Paflure for cows. 
COWHERD. A perfon who takes 
care of cows. 



J. 



' 



C^ 



(O 






A fpecies of 



UO 






'Jerusalem Cowslip 
Lungwort. * 

Cows Lungwort. Mullein. 
CRAB, [Ma/us Sylwflrh.] This is > 
COW-PARSLEY. The name of a by botanifts fuppofed to betheoiigi- < 
plant common in paflure grounds, and nal kind, and fro.m the feed was firft^Xj 
of which cows are faid to be very fond, obtained the cultivated apple, whole 
This plant fhould be rooted out of all varieties are now fo numerous. There t 
paftures, for it is one of the moit early are two or three varieties of the crab, 
plants in fhooting, fo that by the be- as the white, the purple, and the crab 
ginning of April its leaves are near with variegated leaves. 
two feet high. The feeds of this plant The. wood of the crab is hard and 
fpread greatly over the ground, and as ferviceable, and of the fruit is made 
the roots are perennial, fo they are of- verjuice. They are propagated by 
ten very troubkfome weeds to deftroy. fowing thefSeds. 

COW-PARSNIP, loild parfnip, mm- CRAPLE, A part often added to a ... 
lirw parfnip, or mairep. The name of a fcythefihe better to gather the corn, 
weed that grows to near three feet high, when low, into fwarths, when it is 
Theftalk is round, furrowed, and hcl- mowed. 

low. The leaves proceed from a large CRAGCE, A name given in Suf- 
inembrane or (heath. They grow on folk to the remains of marine fhells, 
long hairy ftaiks, and are divided and of various kinds, and in which th<? 
downy. The fiowersgrow in large urn- greater part of the Britifh cliffs abound. 

This 



V 



C R A 



C R % 



This is a very excellent manure for 
cold, wet, or clay land ; fo that every 
farmer would do well to fearch his 
grounds, in order to know whether he 
is, or is not, poffeffed of this treafure, 
which will inf'ure him very large 
crops of corn, though his lands were 
before worn out by continual labour. 

CRAKE, A provincial name for the 
crow. 

CRAKE-NEEDLE. The Shepherd' s 
needle. 

CRAMP. Cramps and convulfions 
are of one nature in horfes as well as 
other animals, and are forcible contrac- 
tion of the firsews, veins, and muUes, 
in any member or part of the body ; 
which proceeds fevtral ways, either 
from fome wound, or finew cut afun- 
der, or for want of blood, or eife by 
over-heats, and fudden coolin s afcer- 
wards ; or laltly, by overmuch purg- 
ing the beaft : thefigns to know which 
are, that the infetfed part will be fo 
ftiff, that the whole ftrength of a man 
is not able to bend it, he will be lame 
and well as it were in a moment : 
There is alfo another kind of them, 
that feizes upon a horfes reck, and 
the reins of his back, and almoft u- 
niverfally over his whole body, which 
proceed either from fome great cold 
that may be catched, or from thelofs cf 
blood, whereby a great windin fs en- 
ters into trie veins, and fo benumbs the 
finews. This is alfo known by his 
head and neck fianding awry, his ears 
uprieht. and hise^es hollow, his mouth 
dry and clung, and his back will rife 
like a canu-1 ; which rnuft he cured, 
by giving him fomething to mike 
him fweat, and by loading him with 
warm woollen-cloths. 

Take oil of peter, oil of amber, and 
oil of Exeter, each equal parts, mix 
and bathe the parts affedted, twice or 
thrice a day. 

In fheep, the cramp is cured by 
boiling fome cinqueioil, or five-leaved 
grafs, in wine,and giving him to drink 
warm; but he mult b« kept warm, 
and his legs chafed with oil and vi- 
negar. 

CRANE'S BILL. See Geranium. 
— CRAP, a name given in fome parts 
/,*.* to darnel; in others to buck-weed. 

CXaTCH, or Cntch. A rack. 

CREAM, the uncluous or oily part 
of milk. See Butter. 
CREAM of tartar, A gentle aperient, 



well known in the fhops of the chu*-- 
gift and apothecary. 

CRESS, [NaJ}:athm.} The com- 
mon garden crefs, pretty generally 
cultivated as a fallad herb, is moft e- 
fteemed in the winter and fpring, be- 
caufe it is one of the warm kind. It 
is propagated by its feeds only. If 
raifed in the winter feafon, it mail be 
fown upon a gentle hot-bed, and co. 
vered fo as to defend it from great 
rains crfroft, both of which are equally 
deftruclive to it in that feafon. If it 
be not raiTed till the fpring, it may 
then be fown in warm borders, well 
fenced from all nipping winds ; but if 
it is to be continued in the fummsr, it 
muft br. fown upon fhady borders ; and 
this fowing fhould be repeated tvery 
third day, or it will loon be too large 
for ufe, as it grows very faft at that 
time of the year. 

A curled fort of this pbnt is propa- 
gated in fome gardens, more for cu- 
riofity, and togariiifh difhes, than for 
any :eal ufe; for the common fort is 
full as good. This curled crefs fhould 
not be fown quite fo thick as the other, 
and when its plants are come up, they 
fhould he tinr,r.-:d, fo as to leavethe re- 
maining ones Ht leaft half an inchafun- 
der, that they may have room to ex- 
pand their leavts. To preferve this 
curled variety unmixed, all fuch plants 
ot it as feem to have a tendency to de- 
generate muft be pulled up as foon as 
they are noticed. 

The belt method of fowing both 
thefe forts of ccrTes is in drills, be- 
caufe it will then be eafielt ;o cut them 
as they may be wanted. Their feeds, 
which are very fmall, fhould be but 
barely covered with earth ; and to fave 
thefe feeds when they are ripe, the 
plants fhould be drawn up, fpread 
upon a clcth, and dried in the fun for 
two or three days. They may then be 
eafi!y L eaten out ; and they fhould be 
kept in a dry place. 

Indian CRESS, \_Tropa?ih.m) . ] There 
are two kinds of Indian crefs ; the lef$ 
or Common, and the greater. The 
firft fort is lefs common at prefent in 
Englifh gardens than the fecond, tho* 
it was formerly more fo ; the flowers 
of the latter being larger make a finer" 
appearance, for which it is preferred} 
they are both efteemed annual plants, 
though they may be continued through 
the winter if they are kept in potl, 
and fhelteredin a good green-houte, in 

K k 2, like 



C R E 



CRT 



Kke manner as that with double flow- 
ers is preferved, fo may be propagated 
by cuttings as that is ; but, as thefe 
ripen their feeds constantly every year, 
the plants are generally raifed from 
them ; thefe may be fown in April in 
the places where they are to remain, 
which mould bewhere their ftalks may 
have fupport, for they will climb fix 
or eight feet high, when they are train- 
ed up, and then their flowers will make 
a good appearance ; but when they 
trail upon the ground, they will fpread 
over the neighbouring plants, and be- 
come unfightly. 

The flowers of thefe plants are fre- 
quently eaten infallads; they have a 
warm tafte like the garden crefs, and 
are efteemed very wholefome ; they 
are likewife ufed for garniihing dirties. 
The feeds are pickled, and by fome are 
preferred to moil kinds of pickles for 
fauce. 

Sciatica Cress. Candytuft. 
Swine' t Cress. Scurvy grafs. 
Water C r e s s , or Winter Cress, [ Naf- 
turtium aquaticum, Sifymbrium.~\ This 
plant has of late been generally ufed as 
a fallad herb in the fpring of the year, & 
is by many preferred to all other forts 
of fallads for its agreeable warm bitter 
tafte, and being accounted an excel- 
lent remedy for the fcurvy, and to 
cleanfe the blood, as alfo a good diu- 
retic, it has greatly obtained a prefe- 
rence to moft other herbs for winter 
and fpring ufe with many people. 
This is generally gathered in ditches, 
and in other ftanding waters near Lon- 
don, to fupply the markets ; but who- 
ever has a mind to cultivate it may ea- 
fily do it, by takingTome~of the plants 
from the places of their natural growth 
early in the fpring, being careful to 
preferve their roots as entiie as poffi- 
ble, and plant them into mud, and 
then let the water in upon them by 
degrees. When they have taken root 
they will foon flourifh, and fpread o- 
ver a large compafs of water ; they 
Ihould not be cut the firft feafon, but 
fuffered to run to feed, which will fall 
into the water, and furnifli a fuffici- 
ent fupply of plants afterwards. 

But where the water is fo deep, that 
it will not be eafy to plant them, the 
beft method will be to get a quantity 
of the plants juft as their feeds are 
ripening, and throw them on the fur- 
face of the water where they are de- 



figned to grow, and their feeds will ri- 
pen, and fall to the bottom, where 
they will take root, and produce a fup- 
ply of thefe plants. 

As to the virtues of water crefles, 
they are among the milder aperient 
antifcorbutics : Hoffman has a mighty 
opinion of this plant, and recommends 
it as of Angular efficacy for accelera- 
ting the circulation, ftre/igthening the 
vifcera, opening obftruclions of the 
glands, promoting the fluid fecretions, 
and purifying the blood and humours : 
for thefe purpofes, the expreffed juice, 
which contains the peculiar tafte and 
pungency of the heib, may betaken 
in dofes of an ounce or two, and con- 
tinued for aconfiderable time. 

CREEPER, The name of an apple. 
CRENATED, A term applied by 
botanifts to fuch leaves as are jagged 
or notched. 
CRESSAN, The name of a pear. 
CREST-FALL. N, applied to a 
horfe, is, when that part on which his 
mane grows, hangs to one fide or the 
other. 

CRIB-BITING, A vice to which 
fome horfes are fubjeft ; confiding in 
their catching hold of the manger, 
fucking in of the air, and fwallowing 
it down in gulps, till they are often fo 
full that they are ready to burft. Some 
do it only on their collar reins, and 
fome on every poft and gate they 
come at. 

. This vice is more common in Lon- 
don than any where elfe, and may ei- 
ther come upon horfes from very low 
feeding, while tljey are young and 
have appetites, or perhaps by ftanding 
much at the crib while they ^re fhed- 
ding their teeth; for then their mouths 
are hot, and their gums tender and 
itching, which may readily make them 
fuck in the air to cool their mouths : 
but young horfes are the more apt to 
imbibe this ill habit, when they ftand 
next thofe that do it ; for young horfes 
often follow others. Horfes addicted 
to this vice are but of fmall value; 
they drop a great part of their food 
unchewed, which makes them almoft 
always look lean and jaded, with a 
flaring coat, and confequently few of 
them are able to endure much labour 
either in harnefs or with the faddle; be- 
fides their being frequently fubjedt. to 
the gripes, and other diforders, owing 
to their continual fucking in the air. 
Thers 



C R O 



C R O 



There Is no method yet known, that "JtrufaUm Cro6s-Wort, a fpecics 

has proved effe&ual in the cure of this of campion. 

vice. CROSS-TINING, a method of har- 

CRIBBLE. Coarfe meal, or that but rowing land, confifting in drawing the 

one degree better than bran. harrow up the interval it went down 

CRICK in the Neck. Take oil of before, and down that which it was 

peter, oil of amber, and oil of Exe- drawn up. 



ter ; mix for an embrocation, and 
bathe the parts twice or thrice a day. 

CRIMSON GRASS VETCH, [La~ 
thyrus.~\ See Sweet Pf.a. 

CROCUS. Saffron. The fpecies 
are, Autumnal Crocus, and Spring 
Crocus, with their varieties of yellow, 
blue, purple, white, &c. 

The common faffron of the fhops 



CROTCH, A hook. 

CROUP, The rump of a fowl; the 
buttock of a horfe. 

CROW, An iron bar, with a claw 
and a point to aft as a lever. 

CROW, The name of a well-known 
bird. It has long been a matter of 
doubt, whether rooks or even crows 
do more harm than good. We are of 



Is a variety of the Autumnal Crocus, opinion that they do infinitely more 



with a fma[l round bulbous root com- 
preffed at the bottom. From the root 
iffue many long narrow deep green 
leaves, and amidft them the flowers, 



good than harm, by deftroying the 
numbers of flugs, grubs, and beetles 
they do in the ground. 

CROWING, The noife or voice of 



of a bluifh purple, which commonly a cock, 

appear before the leaves, and, when CROW-FOOT, The name of a pe- 

the flowers decay, continue their rennial weed common in paftures, a j, 

growth, remain all winter, and decay fpecies of the ranunculus. J T eC- ! &&2{iWJ'<77& 

in May following, which is the time CROWLING, A dyfentery or flux. 

to remove the roots, which fhould be CROWN IMPERIAL, Fritillaria 

done every two or three years. The imperialist The varieties are, i. Brown 

faffron is the ftigma of a fine reddifh Imperial, with dufky red flowers ; 2. 

golden colour, growing out of the with bright red flowers; 3. late red 

middle of the flower, thieein number, flowering ; 4. double red flowers ; 5. 

There are feveral other varieties befides golden yellow flowers ; 6. pale yellow 

the officinal, known by the colour, as flowers ; 7. yellow ftriped ditto ; 8. 

whitifh, blue, fky blue, purple, white, double yellow flowers; 9. doubly 

and yellow. crowned, or crown upon crown, hav- 

Of the Vernal or Spring Crocus, ing two tier of flowers ; 10. triple 



are feveral varieties of white, blue, 
and yellow colours, all which flower 
in February, March, and April; they 
are all very ornamental fpring flowers, 
and valuable for their early appear- 



crowned, having three tier of flowers ; 
11. with gold ftriped leaves ; 12.. with 
filver ftriped leaves. 

They are all hardy, bulbous-rooted 
perennials, the roots of great duration, 



ance, when very few other flowers and the flower ftalks annually renewed 

are to be feen, and are fo hardy, that in the fpring. The bulbs fhould be 

they will grow almoft any where, and removed every fecond or third year, 

rear their flowery heads even when and the offsets taken from them by 

chilling colds prevail, and, where duly which they may be propagated. They 

difpofed along the fronts of borders or are alfo propagated by feed in the fame 

clumps, make a fine fhew for a month manner as tulips, but it requires fo 



or fix weeks ; and they encreafe abun- 
dantly by off-fets of their roots, as 
■well as furnifh feed for raifing new va- 
rieties. 

CROFT, a fmall clofe or enclofure. 

CRONE, an old ewe. -4 



much time (fix or feven yean) before 
they come" to flower, that few will 
take that pains. 

CROWN-SCAB, A difeafe'in horfes, 
confifting in an humour, that breaks 
out round the coronet ; of a very 



CROP, the produce, or quantity of fharp and itching nature, and attended 

corn, grafs, &c. growing on any parcel with a fcurfinefs. Sharp waters pre- 

ofland. pared with vitriol are generally ufed 

CROSS-WORT, [Cruciata.] A for the cure of this diforder : but the 

plant growing wild in many parts of fafeft way is firft to mix equal parts 

England, feldom admitted into gardens, of 



<*•■$*• - 






cue 



cue 



of marfhmallow ointment and yellow 
bafilicon together, fpreading the com- 
pofition on tow, and laying it all round 
the coronet. A dofe or two of phyfic 
iriay be very proper, to carry off the 
Rumour. 

CRUPPER, That part of a horfe's 
furniture which gees from the faddle 
to the tail. 

CUBEBS, [Cubeha.'] A fruit brought 
from the Eafl-Indies. This fruit has a 
great affinity with pepper. The prin- 
cipal difference, diitinguifhable by the 
eye, is, that each cubeb is furnifhed 
with a leng (lender ftalk (whence they 
are called by fome piper caudatum.) In 
aromatic warmth and pungency, cu- 
bebs are far inferior to pepper. 

CUCKQW-ELOWER, [Cardtimwe.] 
Ladies fmock. 

CUCKOW-PINT. SeeAFBM. 

CUCKOW's MEAT. Wood forrel. 

CUCKOW LAMB, A late lamb, 
yeaned after the cuckow appears. 

CUCKOW-SPIT, A kindof frothy 
fobftance frequently found on plants, 
containing one or two infects. 

M. Poupart tells us, that as foon as 
the little creature comes out of its 
egg, it haftens to fome plant, which it 
touches withits fundament, and faftens 
there a drop ofwMte liquor full of air ; 
it drops a fecond near the firft, then a 
third, and fo on, till it covers itfeif all 
over with a fcum or froth : this froth 
defends it from the heat cf the fun, 
and alfo from the attacks of the Ipiders, 
which would otherwife devour it. Mr. 
Lifle is of opinion, that this trot'i is 
nothing mere than the nighrly dew 
which Vails upon the fork or joint of 
the plant, and which th,- little 
with its probofcis, as with a pair of 
bei'ows, works into froth. 

CUCUMBERS, [CucutHh.'] The 
varieties are, i, the common rough 
green prickly ; z, fnort green prickly ; 
3, long green prickly; 4., ea r ly green 
clufters ; 5, long fmootn green fur- 
key ; 6, long fmooth white Turkey ; 
7, large fmooth green Roman ; 8, 
long ly Dutch. 

The firft tour forts are the moft to 
be depended or. both for the early and 
main crops. The flowers of all are 
monoecious, i. e. male and female a- 
part on the fame plant. 

Some time between Chriftmas and 
Candlemas is the moft common feafon 



to begin the culture of early cucumbers 
in frames. 

In the culture of early cucumbers, 
it is proper, where there are good ac- 
commodation of frames and hot dung, 
to forward the firft crop in three dif- 
ferent hot-beds; a fmall one for a one- 
light frame, in which to fow the feed, 
and raife the plants a few days old ; a 
fecond, of larger dimenfions, for a 
large one light, or a two-light frame, 
by way of nurfery-bed, in which to 
prick the plants from the feed-bed 
into pots, to remain three weeks or a 
month, tili their two firft rough leaves 
arc two or three inches broad, and 
when the plants have formed one 
joint ; then to be tranfplanted with the 
calls of earth about their roots into a 
third and final hot-bed, to remain to 
fruit ; the planting in this laft bed 
gardeners call ridging out; however, 
if the feed-bed is made fubftantial for 
a large one-light, or a moderate two- 
light frame, it is very poffible, by aid 
of occafional linings, both to raife the 
plants, prick them down, and conti- 
nue them in the fame bed till large e- 
nough for the fruiting hot-bed. 

Proceed therefore to prepare the 
feed hot-bed according to the above 
rules, procuring for this purpofe hot 
dung, i.i afiifRcierit quantity, of a good 
quality, and preparation, which be- 
ing ready, then, with four ftakes, 
fet out on the ground the proper di- 
menfions of the bed, according to that 
of the fram-;, allowing lor the bed to 
be rather two or three inches wider on 
every fide : begin the bed by laying 
fome of the longcft clung in the bot- 
tom, afterwards take it as it comes to 
hand, mixing the fhoit and long well 
together, andfpread it regularly on the 
bed, beating it firmly down with the 
fork as you go on, till raifed to the 
proper height; obferving, if you in- 
tend it only juft to raife the plants, 
two feet ..nd aha.; is high enough; 
hut if defrgned both to raife and for- 
ward the plants large enough for the 
fruiting-bed, it is proper to make it 
three feet fix inches high at leaft ; or, 
if the dung confifts of very long lit- 
ter, four feet high in dung is not too 
much, fir.ee it will fettle almoft a foot 
in a week's time. 

As foon as the bed is made, fet on 
the frame and glafs, keeping it clofe a 
day or two to draw up the heat 5 then 

tilt 



cue 



e u c 



tilt the light behind, for the fleam to 
pafs off. 

In fix, eight, or ten days, according 
to the fubftance of the bed, the vehe- 
ment heat will begin to abate, when 
you earth the bed with the prepared 
mould, before-mentioned, five or fix 
inches thick ; and .next, or the fame 
day, as foon as the earth is vvar:ri,fow 
the feed, drilling it near half an inch 
deep. 

But if you are in hafle to forward 
your plants as much as poffible, or 
that you would life only one hot-bed 
both for the feed and nurfery-bed, let 
the bed be made fubftantial, as be- 
fore obferved, for the largeft one-light, 
or for a two-light frame, according to 
the quantity ct plants required ; fothat 
by lowing the feed infmallpots (thirty- 
two's) you may ufe the bed the fame, 
or t.ext day. after it is made, as foon 
as it begins to heat, covering it all 
over with any fort of dry earth, or 
with old tan five or fix inches thick, 
felling fome pots with rich mould, and 
plunge them a little in the earth, &c. 
and next day the earth in them being 
warm, fow fifteen or twenty feed 5 in 
each ; but obferving, if there is dan- 
ger of burning, draw up the pots 
more or lefs in proportion, as you fee 
it neceffary, to prevent the earth; "cc, 
from being burned ; and in about a 
week the plants will be up and fit to 
prick in pots, by which time the bed 
will be arrived at a moderate heat. 

The feed however being fowed in ei- 
ther method, do not omit tilting the 
light behind ah inch or two occasional- 
ly, to pafs off the fleam, and cover it 
on nights with a mat. 

Thus the plants will come up in 
three or four days, obferving now to 
admit frefh air daily, by raifing the 
lights an inch or two behind, alio oc- 
cafionally on nights, according to the 
rules hereafter direcled, & cover every 
night with mats : when their cotyle- 
dons, or feed-lsavcs, are fully out of 
the earth, and begin to expand about 
half an inch in breadth, it is proper 
to prick them in pots (forty-eights) 
previously filled with rich earth with- 
in an inch of their rims, and placed 
in the fr3n.: I day '^clore to warm, ei- 
ther in the fame bed, made fubftantial 
at firft for that purpofe, othet wife in a 
new hot- bed, as you fballj'jdge ne- 
ceffary, prepared a week before, and 



earthed, or covered with old tan fix 
inches deep, for the reception oi the 
pots : in either of thefe beds, when 
the earth of the pots is warm, proceed 
to prick the phinu therein, railing 
them carefully out of the feed-bed, &c. 
with the fibres of their roots entire; 
then forming a hollow in the middle 
of the earth in the pot.;. pLice three 
or four plants horizontally at equal 
dillance^ in each pot, covering over 
their flianks aimoft to their feed-leaves, 
fiiaking the pot gently to fettle the 
earth ciofe ; if the earth is dry give a 
very light watering with fuch that has 
flood a few hours in the bed in bottles, 
to take off the chill; then direcliy 
plunge the pots to their rims in the 
earth of the bed, being careful that 
every part of the dung within the 
frame is covered with earth, Sec. to re- 
train the fleam from rifing immedi- 
ately from the dung upon the plants j 
for the rank dung fleam, when not 
meliorated by firft paffing through the 
earth, would prove their dellruftion. 

In two or three days, at moft, they 
wi'Ji have taken frefh root, and begin 
to advance in growth, though that is 
often effedled by thefe plants in lefs 
than four and twenty hours, when 
pricked out at the above age ; nor will 
they then require (hading from the fun 
till rooted, as is often the cafe with 
larger plants. 

The plants being thus potted out, 
continue every day to tilt the lights, 
to pafs off the fleam, and to aehnit a 
moderate portion of frefh air, and e- . 
very night cover the giaffes with a mat 
or two ; give alio occafional light wa- 
terings, and as the plants rife in height, 
mould up their fhanks by degrees ; 
likewife fupport a due degree of heat 
in the bed, and in about a month the 
plants will be arrived at a proper fize 
for ridging out. 

As in the early culture of cucumbers, 
the plants being tender, are liable to 
fuffer by ntar.y accidents ; it. is there- 
fore eligible to continue lowing a lit- 
tle feed in the fame bed every week, 
and prick fome in pots, as before di- 
rected, that, if the preceding plants 
fhould fail, thefe may Hand, and will 
be a ready fubftitute ; or, if the v;hoic 
fhould ftand, thefe will to for latter 
crops, and you v/ill have fome to ob- 
lige a t 
But as to the particular culture of 
theft 



cue 



cue 



thefe plants, after being potted in this 
their nurfery hot-bed, the following 
are the principal directions. 

During the violent heat and fteam 
of the bed, care is necefTary to tilt the 
upper end of the lights, not only every 
day, but alfo occafionally on nights, 
raifing them an inch cr two, or a lit- 
tle more or kfs, in proportion to the 
temperature of the bed and weather, 
that the fleam may freely evapo- 
rate, as well as for the admiffion of 
frefh air, to ftrengthen the plants, 
which would otherwife draw up weak 
and yellow-coloured; but tilt the 
glaffes, however, lefs in proportion on 
nights than the day, obferving, in all 
cold piercing weather, to fcreen the o- 
pening or tilted part of the lights oc- 
cafionaiiy, by hanging a mat loofely 
from the top of the glaffes, which will 
bieak the keen edge of the air and 
winds from rufhing immediately upon 
the tender plants; likewife obferve, 
that if the firft great heat is fo violent 
as to endanger burning the earth in 
the pots, the roots, or fibres of the 
plants, which you ought to examine 
daily, the remedy is, to'raife up the 
pots a few inches, or as high from the 
dung as fhall appear expedient for the 
prefervation of the" piants ; and when 
the vehemence of the heat fubfides, 
they may be plunged again to their 
rims ; obferving alfo, when the heat is 
moderate, to raife the gl.ifs for admif- 
fion of air, &c. only occafionally in 
the day time, from about nine or ten 
in the morning in winter and early 
fpring months, till two, three, or four 
in the evening, according to the heat 
of the bed, and as the weather is more 
or lefs mild and funny, always fhutting 
down the glaffes clofe before fun-fet; 
cover the lights with mats every even- 
ing about four or five o'clock, or a 
little fooner or later, according to the 
earlinefs, or advanced period of the 
feafon and temperature of your bed, 
Xcc, uncover each morning about eight, 
or a little fooner or later, according to 
the above rule, obferving, that during 
thefirft greateft heat of the bed, a An- 
gle mat thick is fufficient covering ; 
but as the heat decreafes, augment it 
to two or three, but never let the ends 
of the mats hang down confideiably* 
over the fides of the frame an^ bed, 
which would draw up a violent fleam, 
and promote burning, and, at any rate, 



would ftifle the plants, draw them up 
weak, and occafion them to affume a 
yellow hue, 

■Water in moderate fpi inklings may 
be necefTary once in three, four, five, 
or fix days, as you fhall fee occafion, 
by the mould drying in the pots, and 
according to the heat of the bed, and 
as the weather is more or lefs funny ; 
obferving, that funny days are to be 
preferred for the application of this 
element, and during the winter and 
early fpring months, from about ele- 
ven to one or two o'clock is the pro- 
per time of day to perform the work ; 
the water for which purpofe fhould be 
foft, i. e. either pond, river, or rain 
water, and fhould either be previoufly 
placed in bottles within the frame of 
the hot-bed a few hours, juft to take 
the chill off, or prepared to a proper 
temperature, by warming a little over 
a fire to mix with the reft, but by no 
means let it be warmer than juft to 
take oft" the chill. 

According as the fhanks of the 
young plants rife in height, add a fmall 
portion of fine dry earth round them, 
repeating it occafionally till the vacant 
fpace in the top of the pot is filled, 
being careful to have feme fine rich 
earth in the frame to warm for this 
ufe, adding it by degrees, and the 
plants will emit roots all the way a- 
long their fhanks, as far as they are 
thus landed up, which will. prove of 
no inconfiderable advantage to their 
growth. 

In regard to the heat of the bed, it 
mult all along be preferved in a due 
temperature by proper linings round 
its fides. But, in the firft place, that 
in a week after the bed is made, when 
the vehement heat abates, it is proper 
to lay fome dry ftraw, wafte hay, or 
dry fern, around the fides, near a foot 
wide, and as high as the bed, and a 
little way up the frame, which will 
prevent driving wet, and piercing cold 
winds from penetrating, to chill and 
occafion a fudden decay of its heat. 

But when the heat begins naturally 
to decline, which in a fmall bed often 
happens in about a fortnight, or three 
weeks, after it is made, then the ftraw, 
Sec. muft be removed from the back 
and front of the bed, fubftituting in 
its ftead a lining of well-prepared hot 
dung, working itabout eighteen inches 
wide at bottom, floping it gradually 
upward, 



cue 



cue 



upwards, and raife it three or four in- 
ches higher than the dung of the bed, 
to allow for fettling, covering the top 
with two inches depth of earth dole 
up to the fides of the frame, to keep 
down the (team, which might enter 
the frame, when the glafs is opened to 
give air, and injure the plants ; for 
all rank fleam, coming directly from 
the dung upon thefe plants, will fcald 
and dellroy all the leaves it encoun- 
ters in its direction : this dung lining 
will rtvive the declining heat o! the 
bed, and continue your' plants in a 
healthful growing flate. In ten or 
twelve days after, you may line the o- 
thei fides of the bed, if it fhall fec-m 
neceffary, otherwife defer it longer ; 
and if the feafon fhould prove very 
wet or fnovvy, lay fome dry litter a- 
round the frame, upon the top of the 
lining, to fhoot off the water. 

In thecourfe of lining the bed, have 
a watchful eye agninlt burning or 
{teaming your plants, as a frefh dung 
lining often promotes a new violent 
heat and fleam ; you mult therefore 
obferve the precautions above hinted, 
of raiting up the pots of plants, if 
neceffary, and tilting the light in ; ro- 
portion. 

As the plants, when fit ft potted cut, 
confifted only of the two feed leaves, 
or cotyledons, they, in a week after, 
will begin to pulh from their centre 
the firfl proper or rough leaf, and in 
a few days after that, the fecord rough 
leaf will advance, encloting in its bo- 
fom ether younger leaves, and the end 
of the firfl advancing fhcot or run- 
ner, which in a few days fhould be 
flopped, to flrengthen the plants, and 
promote lateral fruitful fhoots. 

The operation of flopping fhould be 
performed when the fecond of the 
rough leaves has expanded the breadth 
of a fhilling; it is a fort of pruning 
performed by taking off the end of the 
firfl mnner, arifing, as above hinted, 
in the bofom of the fecond leaf; is 
requifite both to ftrengthea the plants, 
and to promote their putting forth la- 
teral fhoots or runners, to fill the bed 
with proper bearing vine; for the la- 
teral fhoots are the only bearers to be 
depended on : let therefore the end of 
the advancing runner be carefully ta- 
ken off almoft clofe to the bafe of the 
fecond leaf, but never fuffer mors than 
Vol. I. 



the third rough leaf to advance before 
this is done, and, if performed when 
the end of the fhoot is not bigger than 
a large pin's head, the better; and by 
this early flopping the plants at the 
firfl or fecond joinr, they will grow 
robuft, and focn prepare to fend forth 
fruitful runners, fh'ewing fruit proba- 
bly at the firfl or fecond joint; but 
it the firfl fhcot was not flopped as 
above, it would fometimes advance 
two or three feet in length, without 
either fending forth fide runners, or 
(hewing fruit ; for the fruit are always 
principally to be expefted from the 
lateral runners. 

When the plants have two or three 
rough leaves near three inches broad, 
and the operation of flopping at th<* 
firfl joint has been performed, as a- 
bove directed, they will be in excel- 
lent order for ridging out, as they will 
be juft pre; a.ing to emit runners. 

Provide therefore, in due time, dung 
for making the fruiting hot-btd, the 
quantity proportioned to the number 
of lights which you inre d to work, 
allowing, if early, a cart load, or twelve 
or fifteen barrows full to each light; 
on th's occaficn your care is requifite 
to have it of proper quality, as before 
obferved, by nixing it-well together 
in an heap; but in your proceedings 
you mufl with' forecaft obferve to 
make the neceffary allowance for the 
time of the dung's working, and the 
bed coming to a proper heat, that the 
plants, when ready, may not wait for 
the bed ; this | remifed, and the dung 
oeing prepared, flake out the bed front- 
ways to the fduthjthe width and length 
in proportion to the dimenfiensof the 
frames, and number of lights to be 
employed, making an allowance fcr 
the bed to be fix inches wider than the 
frames ; and, when more than one 
range of hot- beds are intended, one 
before another, allow a fpace of live 
or fix feet between bed and bed, for 
lining, &c. the dimenfions being thus 
flaked out, wheel in the dung, and 
proceed to make the bed, firfl fhaking 
fome of the mod ftrawey dung along 
the bottom, and then mixing long and 
fhort regularly together, carry on the 
bed evenly, building the fides flraight 
and upright, the middle perfectly full, 
and form every part equally dole and 
firm, by beating it evenly down with 
L 1 the 



cue 



cue 



the fork from time to time as you ad- of due temperature, prepare to mould 
vance, not treading it, up.lefs the dung it, previously obferving, that, as the 
is very long and (frawc. indeed, railing bed generally fettles unequally, it is 
the whole three feet hx inches high, proper, firft tc take off the frames, and 
at leaft, if early in the year ; other, level all inequalities, and fmooth the 
wife a yard in height will be furficient, Airfare with the back of die fpade, 
especially if any confiderable range and directly let on the frame for good; 
for two, three, 01 more frames 5 but then, the better to fecure the earth, 
if for a three-light fr u me only, and immediately under each hill of plants, 
made any time before April, make it from burning, you may, where con- 
the full height oi' three feet and a half, venient, lay a ftratum of pliable cow 
before mentioned, as it will fettle near dung, not too wet, on the furface of 
a foot in lefs than a fortnight ; ob- the bed, jufl under the centre of each 
ferving, dipt of whatever fubftance light, about eighteen inches, or two 
ays raifeit rather higheif. feet diameter, and an inch and a half 
behind, finlfhing the work by fhovel- thick, piaiftering it clofe and fmooth; 
ling up all the fhort dung remaining this done, proceed to mould or earth 
round the bed at lalt, and lay it at top the bed. Let the earth be rich, light, 
in a ridge along the middle, which, af- and moderately dry, as formerly men- 
ter the bed fettles, may be levelled as tioned, then, under the centre of each 
you fee occafion ; lor it will be a week, light, upon the ftratum of cow dung, 
ten days, or a fortnight, according to lay about three pecks, or near a bufhel 
its fubftance, before its heat is mode- of this earth, forming each parcel in- 
rate enough for the plants. to a fort of conical hillock ten or twelve 

But as foon as the bed is made, we inches high, at the fame time cover- 
advife to fet on the frame and glaffes, ing the reft of the bed, between and 
being neceffary both to defend the bed round the hillocks, with the fame fort 
from gi eat rains, and to forward it of earth three inches thick; on each 
fooner to a proper degree of heat for of thefe hillocks of earth you are to 
the reception of the plants ; obferving fet one pot of plants, as hereafter di- 
when the heat rifes, to prop up the reeled, and the reft of the bed is to be 
lights, to give free vent to the fleam, afterwards moulded up by degrees to 
at the fame time thruftinga long flick the height of the fummit of each hii- 
or two into the bed, that by pulling lock. 

them out daily, and feeling the lower The reafon of forming the earth in 
part, you can readily judge of the hillocks is, that if the bed fhould dif- 
working of the bed, from its firft heat, cover any tendency to burning after 
till it gradually encreafes to its greateft the plants are ridged out, the vche- 
height of vehemence, and thence till mence of the heat and fleam will more 
it becomes of a temperate degree, readily pafs off between the little hills, 
which, in a middling bed, is fometimes than if the bed was at onceearthsd all 
effected in a week or ten days, but over to its proper depth ; befides, by 
when of a more confiderable range, forming it in hills, if the earth fhould 
for two, three, or more frames, it is be in danger of burning, by removing 
often near a fortnight, and fometimes fome around near the bottom, to re- 
more, before the heat becomes tern- duce the fubftance of the heaps, the 
perate enough to receive the mould fleam will more eafily find vent, and 
and plants, which muft not be trufted if the earth fhould unavoidably burn 
in the bed while the heat is violent, at the bafe of the hillocks, the burnt 
i.e. fo hot that you cannot readily earth can be more ealily removed, with 
bear your finger in it any confiderable lefs danger of dilturbing the plants, 
time; for it would both burn the earth and, at thefame time, be replaced, with 
and roots of the plants, and, if it even frefii mould ; likewiie, by this prac- 
only burns the mould, the plants can tice, you may venture to ridge out 
never thrive ; do not, however, fuffer your plants two or three days, and in 
the heat to become too moderate be- fome beds, a week fooner than if the 
fore you put in the plants, for it is bed was to be at once fully earthed ; 
neceffary there be a brifk heat to fet and likewife, by adding frefh earth by 
♦hem a going at firfl. degrees round the hills, it greatly en- 

When the bed, therefore, is became courages the fibres of the plants. 

But 



cue 



cue 



But to proceed to planting — The 
bed being earthed, as above directed, 
immediately put on the daffes clofe, 
and by next day the bed will 'ir.ve im- 
parted a proper warmth to the mould 
for the reception of the plants ; hav- 
ing directed them, in the hurfery bed, 
to be potted, three or four plants in 
pot, allowing one pot of plants to 
each of the above hillocks of earth ; 
but previous to tranfplanting, let each 
pot of plants be watered a few hours 
before, that the earth may adhere firm- 
ly in a ball about their roots ; then, 
to turn them out of the pots, fpread 
your hand on the furfaceof the mculd, 
paffing the (hanks of the planks be- 
tween your fingers, and turning the 
pot upfide down, ftrike the edge gent- 
ly on the frame, the plants will readily 
come out with the whole ball of earth 
entire; then, making a wide hole in 
the middle of the hill of earth, place 
the plants, with the entire ball about 
their roots, therein, drawing the earth 
clofe round, and about an inch over 
the top of the ball 5 and if the earth 
is moderately dry, give a little water 
that has the chill taken off; and, as 
foon as they are planted, fhut down 
the glaffes clofe, to draw up the heat 
obferving, if the fun fnine cut, and it 
occafions the leaves of the plants to 
flag, indulge them with occafional 
fhade ; but, by care in tranfplanting 
them from the pots with the entire 
ball about their roots, they will fcarce 
feel their removal, fo as to fhrink their 
leaves at the approach of the fun ; if 
•hey, however, flag confiderably, fhade 
them with a thin mat, from ten to two 
o'clock, the fir ft three or four days, 
or till they take root fo firmly as to 
ftand the fun without flagging. 

The plants being now ridged out, 
great attention is neceffary to allow 
them a daily and proportionable fhare 
of frefh air, by tilting up the lights 
occafionally ; likewife to cover the 
glaffes every night with mats ; parti- 
cular care is alfo requifite, at firft, to 
guard againft their being annoyed by 
too much heat or tteam, and that they 
do not fuffer by cold or want cf laeat ; 
occafional waterings are alfo neceffary 
in moderation ; the moulding up the 
bed round the hillocks by degrees muft 
alfo be duly attended to, flopping the 
plants once more, to procure a farther 
fupply of fruitful runners, and, as the 



runners advance in length, train them 
at regular diuances, together with the 
care of fetiing the eai ly fruit ; and_ the 
due temperature of the heat of the bed 
to be obferved by proper linings, &c. 

As to the article air; in this parti- 
cular your care is not only to cor.fider 
the ftate of the bed, but likewife the 
temperature of the weather, early or 
advanced period of the feafon, cr if *he 
fun (hints, or the air be cloudy, wet, 
or foggy ; and to proportion the ad- 
miffion of air accordingly ; obferving, 
that wet or foggy air, even, though 
mild, is more unfavourable to the 
growth of thefe plants than froft, pro- 
vided it is accompanied with fun- 
fhine, and that you have proper heat 
in the bed, to maintain a warmth 
about the roots of the plants, and to 
warm the internal air of the frame al- 
moft equal to that of a hot houfe ; and 
indeed, great care is neceiTary to pre- 
ferve your bed always nearly to that 
temperature ; for the plants are rather 
of a more tender quality than the pine} 
let air, however, be admitted daily at 
all opportunities, when the wind 3$ 
ftill, by tilting the lights behind, from 
half an inch, to two or three high, as 
your difcretion fiiall direct, according 
to the rules laid down for the nurfery- 
bed, making an allowance, as the fea* 
fon and warm weather advances, in 
the time of day, of beginning to open 
and fhut down the lights ; and be 
ftill perfuaded to occafionally hang a 
mat over the tilted part of the lights 
in fharp weather, that the plants may 
at the fame time receive a moderate 
fhare of air, and the fleam pafs off 
without injury : fcr if the cold air is 
too freely admitted at an early feafon, 
it will frequently deftroy, or greatly 
injure the plants ; and if the lights are 
kept too clofe, fo as to confine and 
ftagnate the fleam, the danger will be 
equal, the plants will imbibe an in- 
fected air, and foon fhew their ncknefs 
by the yellownefs of their afpect : 
when there is a confiderable heat and 
fleam in the bed, air fhould always be 
admitted the mofl freely, even fome- 
times on nights in a fmall degree, as 
obferved of the nurfery-bed ; and in 
funny weather air is to be admitted 
mere freely than in wet, foggy, cr 
cloudy days: in the hole obferve, 
that as there are often feveral changes 
of weather in a winter's day, and 

L 1 a even 



c u c 



cue 



even early in fpring, your attention 
mult be ;;iven accordingly, to admit 
either more or lefs air. or none at ail, 
as ycru fhali judge neceffary for the be- 
nefit of the plants ; being careful, for 
the general part, after the great (team 
has fubfided, to ihut down the lights 
always before fun-fet ; or if the wea- 
ther changes very fliarp, fcgjy, or 
cold-driving wet, let them be fhut 
d?wn an hour or two fooner : thus 
continue your attention in refpedt to 
the admiffion of air, obferving, with 
this care, the lights are to be continued 
conftantly over the plants till almoft 
Midfummer; not omitting, as the 
warm weather advances, to tilt'them 
high enough in proportion ; and as the 
heat of each day encreafes, from morn- 
ing to noon, tilt them gradually higher 
in proportion to the power of the fun. 

Cove-ring the glaffes on nights with 
ling matSj&c, muft be conftantly 
pracrifed every evening about fun-fet, 
or a little fooner in very cold cloudy 
weather,uncoveringagain in the morn- 
ing about fun- riilng, or a little before 
or after, according to the temperature 
or heat of the bed, or as the weather 
is more or lefs favourable; and in fine, 
warm, funny mornings, always unco- 
ver as foon as the fun mines freely on 
the frames ; for it is very beneficial 
to the growth and profperity of the 
plants, to enjoy as much day-light as 
poffible. As to the mode of covering, 
life only a fingle mat thick at fiilt, 
augmenting it to two or three occafi- 
onaliy, and never fuffer the mats to 
hang down much over the fides of the 
frame, which would draw up a great 
fteam, and ftifle the plants too much. 
Ey thefe ruies, the covering muft be 
continued every night till June. 

The Hate of heat of the bed fhould 
daily be examined the firft week or 
fortnight after the plants are ridged 
out, left it fhould encreafe again fo 
violent as to endanger the earth at the 
bottom of the hills, as well as the 
roots of the plants ; by examining the 
bottom of the hiils, the burning, if 
any, is generally difcoverable, by its 
having a whitifh mouldy appearance ; 
this muft be taken away with great 
care, before it encreafes upwards to 
reach the roots of the plants, and, if 
poffible, without difturbing them in 
growth, immediately adding in its 
fiead a due quantity of frefh earth, 



keeping the bottom of the hillocks itf 
a , narrow a compafs as poffible, till 
the danger of burning is paft, which 
will be in a few days ; but if the heat 
ftill threatens danger to the plants by 
its violence, make wide holes in the 
fides of the bed, by thrulting large 
(takes into the dung in different parts, 
at which holes the burning heat will 
evaporate in (team, without afcending 
to the top, clofing the holes again in. 
two or three days with dung. 

The meulcling or earthing the bed 
between the hillocks fliould be begun 
as foon as the heat becomes moderate ; 
therefore, in a week, fortnight, or 
three weeks, as you (hall judge the 
danger from burning is over, lay in 
fome frefh earth, to be added gradu- 
ally round each hill of plants, for their 
fibres will now advance confiderably, 
and ftriking into the frefh mould, it 
will greatly encourage them; but ob- 
ferving this precaution, that the earth 
for this purpofe fhould be previoufly 
laid a day or two, towards the fides 
and ends of the bed within the frame, 
to acquire a due warmth before it is 
applied round the hills, which other- 
wife would chill the fibres ; and let it be 
underftocd, that this mould is not to 
be laid all on at once, but at different 
times, till the whole is earthed to the 
height of the top of the hills ; fo that 
the whole bed will be now eight or ten 
indies deep in earth. 

With regard to preferving the due 
temperature of heat in the bed, let it 
be obferved, that as foon as the firft 
great heat and (team fubfides, it will 
be of utility to lay fome dry long litter, 
or ftraw, wafte hay, or dry fern round 
the l>td and frame, efpecially in early 
work ; it will defend it from the in- 
clc .lencies of weather, by preventing 
violent or driving rains, fnov. r , or 
(harp cold, penetrating winds, or fe- 
vere froft, from infmuating into the 
interior part of the bed ; and by which 
precautions the heat will be continued 
in fine order, till it begins naturally to 
decreafe, when a fubftantial lining of 
hot dung muft be added to one or two 
fides of the bed. 

In refpedt to watering, a moderate 
fprinkling will beneceffary about once 
a week or ten day, though, in funny 
warm weather, it is probable twice in 
that time will be requifite, or oftener, 
as the warm weather advances ; chu- 
fing;, 



cue 



cue 



fing, In winter and fpring, always a 
warm funny day, any time from ten to 
two o'clock for this operation ; but, 
as the warm feafon advances, be more 
early in the day, and encreafe the 
quantity of water, being careful, in 
cold weather, t»havethe chill taken off, 
obferving, that early in the year it is not 
proper to water too freely all over the 
plants and young fruit, efpecially when 
there is but little fun 5 but rather give 
the water uioitly between the vine, 
out of the fpout of a fmall watering- 
pot, placing a piece of tile, or oyfter- 
fhell, to water on, to prevent the 
mould from being wafhed from the fi- 
bres, fo removing it to different parts 
of the bed j but, in fine weather, wa- 
ter mould alfo be given now and then 
moderately all over the leaves of the 
plants, which will prove a considera- 
ble refrefhment to them. At each 
time of watering, in either method, 
always fhut down the lights for half 
an hour, or an hour, particularly 
in the winter and fpring waterings. 
When you at any time water all over 
the plants, obferve, if the fun fhould 
then, or foon after, fhine out with 
much force, give a flight fhade of a 
mat over the glaffes an hour or two, 
left, by its power through the lights, 
it fcorch the leaves where the drops of 
water adhere to their furfaces ; but 
when the feafon is fo confiderably ad- 
vanced, that the fun is powerful, the 
general waterings fhould be performed 
in a morning before nine, or in an af- 
ternoon about three or four o'clock, 
when the heat of the day is part. 

Having, when the plants were in 
the nurfery-bed, directed their firft 
pruning, called flopping, obferving, if 
that operation was then omitted, it 
mufc now be done the firft opportu- 
nity, according to the former direc- 
tions. 

The plants, being thus flopped, 
they, in ten days, or a fortnight, will 
each fend forth two or three lateral 
fhoots or runners; obferving, that when 
thefe have advanced two orthrte joints 
in length, if they do not fhew fruit, a 
fecond pruning mould take place, by 
flopping each fuch runner at the third 
joint j this will promote their putting 
forth each about three fruitful run- 
ners, i. e. fuch that will probably mew 
fruit at almoft every joint ; for it is 
from the lateral or fide runners, ac- 



quired by the firft or fecond flopping, 
we are principally to expedt the fruit, 
as you will fee, by obfervation, though 
in good kinds, it frequently happens 
that the runners produced, in confe- 
quence of their firft ltopping, fhew 
fruit at the firft or fecond jowit, which 
is a particular advantage in early crops. 
According as the runners advance, 
conduit them along in regular direc- 
tions, at equal diftances from each 
other, fixing them in their proper po- 
rtion, by gently pegging them down 
to the earth with fmall hooked pegs, 
which you will repeat occafionally du- 
ring their advancing growth, and they 
will foon fpread all over the bed. 

In three or four weeks after ridging 
out, the plants may be expected to 
fhow fruit, though ibmetimes that is 
effected in a week or lefs, and perhaps 
at the firft or fecond joint, when the 
plants are not more than five or fix 
weeks old ; and I have had fruit fhew 
at the firft joint, a day or two after 
ridging out, in the beginning of Fe- 
bruary, as big as a fmall barley-corn, 
and cut the fame fruit for the table be- 
fore the month was out ; for the great 
article at an early feafon is, to fecure 
and forward the firft-fhewn fruit to 
maturity, which, without a peculiar 
mode of culture, will turn yellow, and 
drop off in their infant ftate. 

When the plants therefore fhew 
fruit, particular attention is neceffary, 
for one thing, to the keeping up a mo- 
derate, brifk, and regular heat in the 
bed, by proper linings, &c. for a great 
deal depends upon this, that the 
plants may be continued in a ftate of 
free growth, wlaereby the infant fruit 
will advance freely, and flower ftrong; 
and the next thing particularly to be 
obferved is, always to perform the of- 
fice of fetting or impregnating the 
young fruit, according as they come 
into full bloffom, by injecting the fa- 
rina of the maie flowers ; for the male 
flowers moft commonly accompany 
the female or fruit bloffoms ; fo that, 
by praftifing this, and if a good heat is 
preferved in the beds, with the due 
admiffion of fuch frefh air and mode- 
rate waterings, the fruit will fet and 
fwell freely, fo as to acquire a due 
fize for the table, probably in a week 
or ten days, or a fortnight at moft, 
after performing the impregnation ; 
and that, if you began about Chrift- 
mas, 



fcuc 



cue 



mas, or foon after, the firft fruit, with 
due management, will be ready eaily 
in March, and from the fame bed a 
regular f jeeeflion may be obtained till 
Midfummer, or longer. 

In refpeft to lining the bed ; this 
may probably be requifite in three 
weeks or a month, or little msre or 
lefs, after it is made, but this is ac- 
cording to the fubitance of the bed ; 
examine, therefore, carefully, when 
the heat begins considerably to abate ; 
and, on cifcovery thereof, lefe no 
time, but preuaic to line the back- 
part as foon as poffible, for the fuc- 
cefs of early *-ork. depends on keeping 
up a conftant regular heat ; having 
therefore hot dung in due readir.efs, 
by previously working it in a heap. 
as formerly directed ; then removing 
the litter irom the back of the bed, 
work up tiie dung lining a foot and 
haif wide, and as high as the dung of 
the bed, or rather half a foot higher, 
to allow for fettling, for the lining 
ought to be fubftantial, otherwife it 
will not have the defired effedr. ; ob- 
fervin.g, if the heat of the bed is con- 
siderably declined, you. may alfo line 
the front, otherwife it will be better 
to defer it a week longer} and, in ten 
or twelve days after that, you may 
fhake up the fir ft lining, addin5 there- 
to a little frefh dung, which will 
greatly revive its heat, obferving alfo 
the fame of the front lining ; and by 
thus alternately making and renewing 
the lining, you may pieferve a fine 
growing heat in the bed till June, 
when, by the nature of the feafon, the 
plants will fucceed without farther 
aid of artificial heat, though it is ne- 
ceffary to allow them thefhelter of the 
frames and glaffes until the middle or 
end of that month. 

At each time of lining, do not omit 
laying two or three inches of earth at 
top, to reftrain the rank fleam of the 
dung, which wouid rife and enter the 
frame at the fmallefl hole or crevice, 
or at the opening of the lights defiened 
for the admiffion of air. 

Obferve, likewife, that as a frefh 
lining always caufes a very copious 
fleam, and fometimes a ftrong heat, 
due attention muft be given to tilt the 
glaffes in proportion. 

And when you renew the lining for 
the laft time in the end of April, or 
in May, lay fix or eight inches depth 



of earth on the top, and at the fame 
time raifmg the frame at bottom, that 
the earth of the lining and bed may 
join, (o as the fibres may fhoot into 
the new earth ; it will greatly encou- 
rage the roots, add frefh vigour to the 
plants, and will fufficiently recom- 
pence you for the trouble. 

Where there is more than one ranee 
of framing, if the whole fpace between 
was rilled up at the above time with 
hot dung, it would be an additional 
advantage to the crop. 

Yv'ith regard to the work of im- 
pregnation, or fetting the fruit above- 
mentioned, it is a moft neceffary ope- 
ration of art incumbent on the gar- 
dener in the early culture of thefe 
plants, to be done according as the 
flowers, both male and female, come 
into full bloom, and is performed by 
injecting the farina of the male into 
the fiigmata of the female bloffom, 
whi :h is as neceffary to the generation 
of plants, as the feed of animals is to 
their refpeftive fpecies* In herma- 
phrodite plants the male and female 
organs are included all witfcin the fame 
flower, and c-nfequently the impreg- 
nation is readily erre&ed by nature ; 
but all the fpecies of Cucumh being 
monoecious plants, male and female 
flowers diltinct, both, however, on 
the fame plant, the male bloffoms be- 
ing furnifhed with the ftamina, having 
their antherae loaded with a golden 
powder or farina, defigned by nature 
to impregnate the females, fo that the 
conveyanae of this male powder to 
the female flower, either by nature or" 
by art, is abfolutely neceffary ; as, 
without its aid, the young fruit will 
constantly turn yellow, and drep foon 
after they have flowered : in fummer 
when the plants are fuily expofed, the 
gentle breezes of wind, as alfo the 
bees roving from flower to flower, 
having the farina adhering to their 
legs, and fome other accidents, are 
fuppofed to convey a fuffkient portion 
of the farina for fecundating the fe- 
males ; but in winter and early fpring, 
when no wind nor bees. &c. have free 
accefs into tiie frames, it fhews the ne- 
ceffity of performing the impregnation 
by ?rt to thefe plants in particular, by 
carrying the male to the female blof- 
foms ; and the following is the method : 

On the day the flowers of both 

fexes fully open, or the day after at 

fartheft, 



cue 



cue 



fartheft, is the proper period for per- 
forming the cperaiion ; the male blof- 
foms are with facility diftinguifhed 
from the females by the rules already 
obferved ; therefore, at the period of 
growth jurt mentioned, gather fome 
of the belt male bl.iflbms, and apply 
their antheras to the fligma of the fe- 
males; fome direct whelming them 
down over the female flower, fo ftri- 
king them with the fore finger, to 
caufe them to difcharge the farina; 
but the moft certain method is, that 
having gathered the male blofiom with 
the fhank or ftalk thereto, pull off the 
petal or corolla carefully from about 
the lta.viina and antherae ; then, ta- 
king the (hank of the flower betwixt 
your finger and thumb, apply the an- 
therae, or top of the ftamina, to the 
centre of the three ftigmas of the fe- 
male bloffom, and twirl it about two 
or three times, that it may difcharge 
or inject a due portion of the pol/cn, or 
farina, into the faid ftigmata or female 
organs, and then carl it away, ufing a 
frefh male bloffom for each impreg- 
nation, unlefs the males are fcaroe, as 
fometimes is the cafe early in the year, 
when one male with care may be made 
to impregnate two or three females, 
as it alfo fometimes happens at an 
early feafon, that a fruit bloffom opens, 
and no males forward enough on the 
plants; in this mortifying circum- 
ilance, you muff have recourfe to your 
neighbours, fome of whofe plants may 
probably be on the contrary extreme. 
Some, in performing the impregna- 
tion, infinuate the male organs in be- 
twixt the ftigmata of the females, and 
fo leave it till it naturally drops out; 
and fometimes they twift the top of 
the female corolla together to keep the 
other part in ; but all this is unne- 
ceffary : practife, as before directed, 
and caft the male part away as foon as 
you have performed the operation, 
which, if well executed, and there is 
a good heat in the bed, the young 
fruit will make ama2ing progrefs in a 
few days, advancing with the flower 
in its extremity ; and when from a- 
bout three to five or fix inches in 
length, is fit to cut for the table. 

Always make it a rule, during the 
early feafon, to let every promifing 
fruit, according as they come into 
bloffom; and the critical moment is, 
the middle of the. firft day the bloffom 



opens, or the fecor.d, at moft ; being 
careful never to water too freely over - 
the new-fet fruit, efpecially at an early 
feafon. 

Some, to encreafe the growth of 
the ncwly-fet fruit, flop the runner, 
on which it is fituated, at the firft or 
fecond joint above; it may be prac- 
tifed to fome of the earliest ; but too 
frequent flopping occahons a great 
number of weak lhoots, and a confu- 
fion of vine. 

1 he importance of the above opera- 
tion is fo efleniial in the early culture 
of cucumbers, that it fhouid never be 
omitted ; as, by the practice, you may 
always make fure of the firft, and every 
fruit that fhews, whereas, without 
this care, if the culture of the plant is 
ever fo well conducted, no fruit will 
fet till late, as by many is experienced, 
except by chance fome ftraggling bee 
may have crept into the frame, fo, by 
the fertilizing duft flicking to their 
legs, accidentally perform the opera- 
tion. The doctrine, however, of im- 
pregnation, is by fome difputed, with 
refpect to its neceflity and efficacy $ 
and what is furprifing, the Rev. Mr, 
Hanbury, in his Body of Gardening, 
gives hints of its inutility, as unne- 
ceflary and ©f no effect, advancing, 
that good crops of early fruit may be 
expected without its afliftance; but 
this only fhews their total want of 
practical experience in this very im- 
portant procefs, as well as in that of 
early cucumber-framing; for atmoft 
every eminent gardener has proved its 
great ufe, and was retained as a grand 
and ufeful fecret, that many young 
gardeners, to know it, have given a 
confiderable gratuity. 

There is, however, no other plant 
of our gardens that requires the gar- 
dener's afliftance in the above work of 
generation, befides Cucumbers and 
Iv'eions, and thefe only in their early 
culture, under frames, or in hot- 
houfes, where the free air, and other 
means, by which the fecundanng func- 
tion might be naturally performed, is 
not obtained. 

The male bloffoms, fo eiTentially 
necefiary in the above culture, are, by 
the ignorant, termed falfe bloffoms, 
and are often puiled off; but this 
fhouid never be done at any time of 
the year, either in hot-beds, or in the 
full ground, except, indeed, where 
then 



cue 



cue 



they grow in great clufters, in which 
cafe they may be thinned off, leaving 
fufficient for fetting the fruit 5 and 
likewife, as the bloffom in general 
fades, it fhould always be cleared 
away, efpecially in early frame-culture. 

As thefe plants generally extend 
their vine confiderably all over the 
furface of the bed, quite to the fides 
of the frame, frequently fending forth 
runners from all their joints as they 
advance, infomuch as fometimes to 
occafion a great coniuficn of vine, in 
which cafe, if numbers of weak, long- 
jointed, fruitlefs fhoots, are produ- 
ced, it is proper to thin them out oc- 
cafionally, cutting them offclofe; and 
where the runners in general are con- 
fiderably crouded, thin out alfo the 
weakeft, moft irregular, and the fruit- 
lefs ftragglers, fo training the main 
vine, and principal-bearing fide run- 
ners, in a moderately thin and regular 
manner ; for when the bed is greatly 
crouded with vine, it, by excluding 
the neceffary influence of the benefit 
of the fun and air, occafions numbers 
of the young fruit to drop off in their 
minority; obferving, however, th.it 
the regulation of the plants, as above, 
mould, if poflible, be begun before the 
vines are much entangled with each 
other. Clear eff alfo all worn-out 
or decayed runners ; likewife all de- 
cayed leaves, and thin the large du- 
ffers of male bloffoms, and pick them 
off in general when they begin to 
decay. 

When the feafon is advanced that 
the fun fhines with great vehemence 
through the glaffes, it is proper to give 
occafional fhade of fingie mats, an 
hour or two, in the mid.-ile of fuch 
fcorching fumy days ; otherwife the 
violence of the fun through the glaffes 
might fcorch the leaves of the plant. 

As the fummer advances, and the 
days grow long, the fun powerful, 
and the air mild, afford your plants a 
large portion of air, by tilting the 
lights a hand's breadth or more high, 
in the heat of the day, which fhould 
be done occafionally in front, in very 
hot calm days in May and June; and 
in very fcorching weather, the occafi- 
onal fhade of a fingie mat, or a littie 
loofe hay itr-ewed over the glaffes, du- 
ring the fierce fun, from eleven to 
two o'clock, is neceffary, left the vio- 
lent heat through the glaffes fcorch 



the leaves and fibres of the roots ; at 
this time do not let them want water, 
ence, twice, or three or four times a 
week, according to the heat of the 
weather : obferve, likewife, at this 
time, if the leaves of the plants are 
grown fo large and high as to prefs 
againrt the lights, it is advifeable to 
raife the frame at bottom about three 
or four inches, by placing a brick, &c. 
under each corner, making good all 
irregularities of the earth of the bed 
occafioned by this work, filling up 
alfo, at the fame time, with earth, be- 
tween the mould of the bed, and that 
at the top of the lining, for the fibres 
to ftrike into, as before hinted ; and if 
the leaves of the plants are very large 
and crouded, Jet fome be cut out, fo 
as to admit the air freely : likewife, 
when the fummer is advanced to the 
middle of June, if the weather is warm 
and fettled, the frame may be raifed fo 
high at bottom, as to admit of the end 
cf the plants being trained from un- 
der, upon the top of the lining, being 
caieful to cover them on nights with 
mats the firft week after training them 
out, till hardened to the open air ; and 
towards the end of that month, er be- 
ginning of July, may gradually expofe 
the whole to the full air, to take their 
chance for the remainder of the fum- 
mer, though, if you would continue 
them in bearing as long as poflible, it 
is proper to defend them on nights, 
and all exceflive wet weather, with the 
lights. 

The rnoft eligible method far raifing 
plants for the hand or bell glafs crop, 
is in March, or very early in April, 
either to fow the feed in the cucum- 
ber or melon-hot-beds already at work 
under frames, or where there is no 
room, or there are no frames at work, 
make, about the middle, or toward 
the latter end of March, a hot-bed for 
a frame of one, two, or more lights, 
according to the quantity of plants re- 
quired, obferving nearly the fame rules 
in making the bed and fowing the 
feed, as directed in the frame culture ; 
likewife prick the plants, when in the 
feed-leaf, either in pots, or at two or 
three inches diftance in the earth of 
the bed ; but, for the greater conve- 
nience of ridging-out the plants with 
balls of earth ahout their roots, it is 
more advifeable to prick moft of them 
in pots, four in each, as obferved of 
raifing 



cue 



cue 



railing them for the frames ; obferve 
.alfo nearly the fame rules for giving 
air, coveting up on nights, giving 
occsfional waterings, keeping up the 
heat of the bed, and flopping the 
plants at the firlf joint: and in about 
three, four, or five weeks, when the 
plants have rough leaves, two or three 
inches or more broad, and beginning 
to (hoot runners, they are of due lize 
for ridging out. 

The mod proper time for ridging 
out under thtfe glafTes, is from about 
the middle of April, to the middle or 
latter end ot M iy. 

The hot-beds for this ridging out 
are to be of hot dung, prepared as 
exhibited in the framing ; obferving, 
that as the feafon for this work is April 
and May, the beds need not be quite 
fo fubftantial as is neceffary at a more 
early feafon, allowing, however, if in 
April, dung enough, if poffible, to 
make the bed three feet fix wide, and 
two feet and a half high ; though, if 
not made till May, two feet high in 
dung may be fufficient, and, at either 
time, the length of courfe proportion- 
able to the number of hand-glaffes you 
defign to work, allowing them to 
ftand at three feet fix inches diftance, 
in one row along the top ot each bed. 
The ridges or beds are, according to 
the feafon, to be made either entirely 
on level ground, or in a trench fifteen 
or eighteen inches deep ; obferving, if 
you would ridge out in April, that, as 
the beds will require lining in three 
weeks, to revive the heat, to carry on 
the plants till the arrival of warm fet- 
tled weather in June, it is therefore 
proper to make them entirely above- 
ground, to admit of lining the whole 
of each fide quite to the bottom ; but 
if you do not ridge out till May, no 
linings will be required : ard as the 
ground will then be warm, diy, and 
free from ftanding water, it is proper 
to make the bed in a trench three feet 
wide, and near half that in depth ; fo 
that the bed being above half way in 
the ground, and the upper part to be 
covered on the fides and top with the 
eaith of the trench, the whole will si- 
fume the appearance of a ridge of 
earth, and, by being thus moulded, 
and all cafed over with earth, it will 
preferve the heat the longer, 

On confideration, however, of ridg- 
ing out in April, conclude to make the 
Vol. I. 



ridge entirely on level ground ; therer 
fore (lake it out three leet and half 
wide, and as long as convenient ; then 
wheel in the dung, and work it up 
regularly ftraight and uptight on each 
fide to about two feet and a half high ; 
but if four feet wide, and the ahovg 
hei lit, it will fupport a more durable 
heat, and be of additional advantage, 
for the bed will fettle a foot, and 
there are often many cold nights be- 
tween this time and the end of May ; 
obferving, if more than one range is 
to be made, make them one before 
another, allowing a fpace of three or 
four feet between, which may after- 
w rds be occasionally filled up with li- 
nings ot hot dung and earth, which will 
prove very beneficial to the plants, fi- 
nishing each bed, by (hovelling up all 
the fhort dung at lait, and laying it 
at top. 

Having thus made the ridge or 
ridges, they, in three or four days, 
will have fettled, and the heat anfen, 
then level any inequalities at op, ma- 
king that part even and fmoorh, and 
pioccd to mark cut the ditlances foB 
the plants, and mould the places for 
their reception; for, as the>e are no 
frames to confine the heat ar.d (team, 
you may always venture to ridge out 
within the week ; the bed being le- 
velled at top, mark out exadtly along 
the middle thereof, the places for the 
glafTes and plants, at three feet fix in- 
ches diltance; and if the bed is very 
fubftantial, that, previous to mould- 
ing it, you may, if convenient,, as a 
precaution, the mor<- certainly to pre- 
ferve the earth from burning, plaiiter 
cow-dung an inch and a halt thick on 
the places where the plants are to 
ftand : having, however, marked the 
diltsnees for the plants, lay on each 
of thefe places about a bufhel of rich 
earth, in a hillock twelve indies high, 
and broad enough for a hand glafsj 
at the fjme time cover the other parts 
of the bed, between, and on every fide 
t tie hillocks, two or three inches thick, 
with the fame fort of cornpoit, and 
directly place a hand-glafs over each 
hill, (hutting them down clofeto draw 
the heat up foon, and cover them en 
nights with mats, and, when the earth 
is warm, put in the plants. 

The next day or day al er, the earth 
will be fnfficiently \va r m tor the re- 
ception of the plants, therefore, ha- 
M ra vhig 



cue 



cue 



vlng previoufly watered the plants the 
day before, that the mould may cling 
in a ball about their roots; then re- 
moving the plants with a ball, and le- 
velling the tops of the hillocks broad 
enough for each glafs to ftand, plant 
one pot of four plants in each hillock, 
giving dire£lly a little water, and put 
on the glafies ; and, if they flag at the 
approach of fun, afford them a mo- 
derate fhade the firft two or three 
days ; but if they are carefully tranf- 
planted, with balls to their roots, they 
will not want much fhading, and the 
lefs the better. 

Being now ridged out, care mod be 
taken to admit frefh air to the plants 
in the warmeft time of every mild 
day, by tilting one fide of the glades, 
from about half an inch, to one, two, 
or more high, according to the heat 
of the bed, and warmth of the wea- 
ther; but ihut down the glaffes in 
due time towards evening, or fooner, 
if the weather changes cold, keeping 
them clofe on nights, and all very cold 
bad weather ; and cover every night, 
all over the glafTes and ridge, with 
mats, until June; alfo occafionally in 
all hard rains. Give alfo occafional 
moderate waterings. 

In a week after ridging-out, when 
the great heat of the bed will be 
abated, then begin to earth it by de- 
grees all over, to the height of the 
hillocks, which will encourage and 
preferve a due heat about the fibres of 
the plants ; and if previoufly a wreath 
of large itraw-bands, made of any 
kind of long litter, is placed round 
the edge of the bed, juit on the top 
of the dung, fixing them thereto fix or 
eight inches high, with long fharp- 
pointed flicks thruft into the bed, it 
will fupport the fides of the earth, fo 
as to admit of moulding the bed to its 
full width, and will preferve that part 
of the mould from being dried too fa A 
by the fun and winds. 

Towards the middle of May, or 
fooner, if the heat of the ridges abate, 
and the nights continue cold, a lining 
*f hot dung to both fides of the bed 
will be of very great advantage; make 
this fifteen or eighteen inches wide, 
beating it firm on every part, railing 
It three inches higher than the dung of 
the bed, to allow for fettling, and im- 
mediately earth it at top with rich 
tarth, to the thicknefs of that an the 



ridge; this lining will be moft fer- 
viceable in a triple degree ; the frelh 
dung will revive the heat of the bed, 
the earth at top affords additional 
fcope for the fibres to ftrike into, and 
the bed, being augmented in width, 
gives an opportunity of training the 
vines regularly to their full extent. 

As the days encreafe in heat, and 
the plants in growth, admit air ac- 
cordingly, by tilting the warm fide of 
the glafTes in proportion, to harden 
the ends of the runners gradually, to 
be trained out from under the glafTes, 
when the weather is become warm 
and fettled. 

In the latter end of May, or begin- 
ning of June, the plants will have fil- 
led the glafTes with their runners ; they 
mull then be trained out, by elevating 
the glafTes on props : this, however, 
muft not be done too hailily before the 
firil or fecond week in June, if pof- 
fible, to sptain the plants till that 
time under the glafTes, for we have 
often very cold nights till the end of 
May, and fometimes a week longer ; 
therefore, in the firft or fecond week 
in June, according to the fettled tempe- 
rature of the weather, and advanced 
growth of the plants, prepare to raife 
the glafTes on every fide three »r four 
inches high, on bricks, pieces of wood, 
or notched flicks, and lead the run- 
ners out regularly at equal diftances ; 
faflen them down with hooked pegs, 
to fecure them againft the power of 
winds, obferving to continue the co- 
vering of mats every night, and all 
Tery rainy or bad weather, for the firft 
fortnight after they are thus trained 
out from under the glafTes ; continue 
the glafTes alfo over them till July, or 
if continued all the fummer, it will 
preferve the head or main ftem of the 
plants from injury of weather. 

When the runners advance from un- 
der the glafies, if feme dry reeds, clean 
wheaten ftraw, or fmall brulhy or 
branchy flicks, are fpread on the fur- 
face of a few holes, for the vines to 
run upon, it will preferve them clean, 
and the earth from drying too faft ; 
and the fruit will be better preferved 
from fpotting, which often is the cafe 
in wet fummers, when they lie on the 
ground. 

In hot dry weather, when the vines 

are advanced confiderably, and in fruit, 

do not omic fupplying them with 

water 



cue 



cue 



water two or three times a week, 
though in July, when in full fruit, 
they, in very dry fcorching weather, 
will need water every day, or even 
twice in a day, in the morning bsfoie 
eight, and in the evening after four 
o'clock, giving, at this time, a wa- 
tering-pot full, at leaft, of water to 
each hole, watering equally all over 
the bed to the very outfide ; and by 
thus preferving a due moifture in the 
earth, during the great heat of the fea- 
fon, the plants will fhew fruit abun- 
dantly, and it will fet and fvvell fur- 
prifingly fart to maturity. 

As to the operation of fetting or 
impregnating the fruit, as directed for 
the frames ; this, if you are anxious 
about having fome of this crop fit to 
cut as foon as poffible, may be per- 
formed to thofe that firft fhew whilft 
under the glafTes ; but after the vine 
is trained out into the full air, there 
will be no great neceffity for taking 
that trouble. 

In default of hand or bell glafTes, a 
few holes of cucumbers for private 
ufe, may be brought to bearing in 
June, under fhelters of oiled paper, ei- 
ther parted on ridged or arched frames, 
made of lath, or other open work, 
four feet wide, ten long, and three 
high, or on fmall open frames the fze 
of hand glaffes ; or by parting three or 
four fheets of ftrong paper together in 
a piece, each fuch piece to cover one 
hole of plants, previoufly oilinj it. 

Cucumbers are often obtained in 
hot-houfes any time in winter, and 
early in fpring, with lefs trouble fome- 
times than in hot-beds under frames, 
not, however, always with fuccefs of 
fuch plentiful crops ; but as pine- 
apple rtoves are now common in mod 
parts of the kingdom, it is worth 
trial, and if but a few very early fruit 
be obtained, it will compenfate for the 
trouble. 

Cucumber plants, raifed in a com- 
mon dung hot-bed in September or 
October, till in the fecond or third 
joint, and then tranfplanted with balls 
into the rtove, will fometimes afford a 
few fruit in November and December. 

Cuttings of cucumbers, taken off 
five or fix inches long from fome 
healthful plants of the fummer crops 
towards the end of September, or be- 
ginning of October, planted in pots 
•f rich light earth, and plunged in the 



bark-bed, will take root, and often 
break forth into runners, and produce 
fruit in November and December. 

Cucumber plants may be raifed in 
ftoves to a proper fize to plant out in 
hotbeds under frames, where they 
are to fruit for the early crop, which 
will fav» the trouble of making a dung 
hot- bed for fowing the feed, and nur- 
fing the plants : fow the feed about 
Chrifimas in pots, and prick the plants 
into others, as before directed, and 
when in the firft joint, and begin to 
fhoot runners, tranfplant them with 
balls int« the fruiting frames. 

The time for fowing the tatter crop 
of cucumbers, commonly called pick- 
lers, is the beginning of June. The 
London gardeners generally fet thefe 
between the widert rows of cauli- 
flowers, which are four feet and a half 
afunder. To this end, they dig fquaie 
holes about three feet and a half from 
each other, breaking the earth well, 
and hollowing the furface of each hole 
with their hands, till it is like a bafon. 
They then plant eight or nine feeds in 
the middle of each of thefe fpots, and 
cover them with earth to the thicknefs 
of about half an inch. If the weather 
is very dry, they water them gently at 
the end of a day or two. In five or 
fix days the plants will appear above- 
ground, and particular care mu ft be 
taken then to defend them from birds, 
efpecially fparrows, which will other- 
wife foon pinch them off, and thereby 
frultrate all expectations of a crop j 
but this danger will be over in little 
more than a week, for the fparrows 
will not meddle with them after they 
have expanded their feed leaves. Care 
muft alio be taken to continue to wa- 
ter them gently, from time to time, 
according as the feafon is more or lefs 
dry ; and when they begin to fhew 
their third leaf, which is the firft of 
their rough ones, all the weakeft 
plants fhould be pulled up, leaving in 
each hole only four of the moft pro- 
mifingand beft fituated. The ground 
about thefe fhould then be ftirredwith 
a fmall hoe, to deftroy the weeds, and 
earth up the plants, around the ftems 
of which the mould fhould afterwards 
be gently preffed down by hand, the 
better to feparate them gently from 
each other, as much as can be, with- 
out hurting them. This being done, 
water them a little to fettle the earth 

M m 2 about 



CUD 



CUR 



about them, and at fuch times as the 
drynefs of the weather may render it 
neceffary : but, above all, they mufl be 
kept clear from weeds. When the 
cauliflowers are qtiite removed, the 
whole ground fhouid be thoroughly 
hoed and cleaned, frefh earth Should 
be laid up around the plants, fo as to 
deepen the hollows in which they 
ftand, that they may the better con- 
tain water when it is given them, and 
their vines fhould be fpread out care- 
fully in the order they are to run, in 
fuch manner that they may not crofs, 
or be tangled with one another. A 
little earth fhould then be laid, and 
gently preffld down between the 
p.'ants, the belter to feparate them 
every way, and a genrle watering now, 
and as often afterwards as the fea- 
fon fhall require, will forward their 
growtii. With this management, thefe 
plants will begin to yield young cu- 
cumbers, fit for pickling, about the 
latter end of July, or early in Auguft. 
About fifty or fixty of thefe holes 
will be neceffary for a middling fa- 
mily; becaufe a fmaller number of 
them will not afford fruit enongh at 
one gathering, to requite the trouble 
and expence of pickling, and they 
never are fo good if they are gathered 
long before they are put into the vine- 
gar. Fifty holes will feldom turnifh 
more than two hundred cucumbers fit 
to gather at a time, and this may be 
repeated twice a week, as long as the 
feafon lafts, which generally is five 
weeks. What are not wanted for 
pickling, may be left to grow till they 
become fit to eat. 

Wild CUCUMBER, [Cucumis Agrc- 
Jfis, Momordka.] See Male Balfam 
Apple. 

CUD. That food which is repo- 
fited in the firft ftomach. in order for 
rumination, or to be chewed again. 

CUD left. When cattle lofe the cud, 
which they fometimes da by chance, 
when they really mourn ; and fome- 
times by ficknefs and poverty. To 
cure this, take four leaven of rye- 
bread and fait, and mix it in a mortar 
with urine and yeaft. and making a big 
ball or two thereof, put them down the 
beaft'j throat. Others take part of the 
cud of another beaft, blend it with 
rye-bread, four leaven, and fait, and, 
pounding them in a mortar, make 
them into balls, which they give the 
beaft, 



CUDWEED. Goldylocks, or eter- 
nal flower. 

CULLIONS. Round roots of plants. 

CULM1FEROUS Pints, Such as 
have a fmooth jointed ltaik, and their 
feeds are contained in chaffy hufks. 

CULRAGE. Bitin? A'fmart. 

CULTIVATION". The art of im- 
proving foils, and forwarding or me- 
liorating the produce of the earth, by 
manual labour, manure, &c. 

CULTIVATOR. The horfe-hoe, by - 
fome fo called, t/ce. flC/]?-<!*£/ . 

CULTURE. The art of cultivating 
the foil. 

CULVER.. A pidgeon, or dove. 

CUMMIN, \Cum\num,Cyminum.\ An 
umhellifeious plant, in appearance re- 
fembiing fennel, but much fmaller. 
The feeds are brought from Sicily and 
Malta. Cummin feeds have a bitterifh 
warm tafte, accompanied with an a- 
romatic flavour, not of the moft agree- 
able kind. They are accounted good 
carminatives, but not very otten made 
ufe of. 

CUPMOSS. A fpecies of mofs. 

CURB. An iron chain fafiened to 
the upper part of the branches ot the 
bridle, in a part called the eye, and 
running over the beard of the horfe. 

Curb, is alfo the name of a difeafe 
in horfc-s, confiding in a fwelling at 
the junctures of the bones on the hind 
part of the hock, forming a pretty 
large tumour over the back part of the 
hind leg, attended with fliffr.efs, and 
fometimes with pain and lamenefs. 

A curb proceeds from hard riding, 
ftrains, blows, or kicks. The cure at 
firft is in general eafily enough effected 
by bliftering, repeated two or three 
times, or even oftener. If it does not 
fubmit to this treatment, but grows 
exceffively hard, the quicker! and fu- 
reft way is to fire with a thin iron, 
making a line down the middle from 
top to bottom, and drawing feveral 
lines in a penni form manner, pretty 
deep, and then to apply a mild blifter- 
ing plaifter or ointment over it. This 
method will entirely remove it. 

CURRANT, [LW Pafe Minora.] 
The fruit of the Corinth vine. 

CURRANT-TREE, [Riks.] The 
name of a fhrub well known in the 
English gardens, and of which there 
are feveral varieties ; but the moft va- 
luable forts, for common ufes, are the 
white and red Dutch. 

' Thefe 



CUR 



C Y D 



Thefe forts ma> heeafil • propagated 
by planting their cuttings any time 
from the middle ot September to the 
end . October; upon a i; ot of fielh 
ea . r-ither in rows, at a !• ut'afiin- 
der, or in beds, w ' ich in the fpring 
mu be 1 ' very clear from weeds. 
Thefe r.iay remain one or tw years in 
the nurfery, du;ing which time tlu-y 
mutt be pruned up for the puipcfes 
they are defined for ; that is, either 
to clear Item-, about a foot high if for 
ftandards ; or it f< r " alls, pales, or 
efpaliera. they may be trained up fiat. 
They Ihould then be planted out where 
they are to remain, for the younger 
they are planted the better they wiil 
fucceed ; the belt leak n for which is 
when their leaves he^in to deca>, that 
they may take root before winter, fo 
tha they may be in no dar.ger ot fuf- 
ferins from drought in the fpring. 

Thefe fhrubs are general!, planted 
In rows a out ten feei atunder and at 
four icet diftance in the rows, in tho e 
gardens where the fruit- is cultivated 
for fale; but the belt rmtbod is to 
train them againit low efpaliers. in 
which manntrthey will take up much 
lefs room in a garden, and their fruit 
will be much taircr. 

The diftance they fhould be placed 
for an efpalier, ought not to be lefs 
than ten or twelve feet, that their 
branches may be trained horiz< ntally, 
which is of great importance to their 
bearing. 

Thoie that are planted arrairft pales 
or walls, fhould alfo be alio ved the 
fame diftai-ce. It they are planted 
againft a fouth eaft wall or pale, it 
will caufe their fruit to ripen ar leaft 
a fortnight or three weeks fooner than 
thofe in the open air, and thofe which 
are planted againft a north wall or 
pale, will be prcportionably later ; fo 
that, by thio method, the fruit may be 
continued a long time in perfection, 
efpecially it thofe againft thi north 
pales a e matted in tiie heat ot the day. 

Thefe plant produce theirfruit up- 
on the former year's wood, and alio 
upon fmall fnags which come out of 
the old wood • fo that in pruning 
them, thefe fnags fhould he pieferved, 
and the young lhoots fhortened in 
proportion to their ftrength. The 
only method, very neceffary to be ob- 
ferved in pruning them, is not to lay 
fheir moots too clofe, and never to 



prune their fnags to make them frsootii 
'. hi.-,, with a little care in obferving 
the manner of their growth, will be 
fufficient to ir.firuci ai y perfon how 
to manage this fh ';b, fo as to produce 
great quantines oi truit. 

Thefe plant will thrive and pro- 
duce fruit in almofi any foil or firua- 
tion, and ate often plante under the 
fhade of trees : but the truit is always 
be! ; . when they ate planted in the 
open ar, and up n a light loamy foil. 

CURRY COMB. An iron inftru- 
ment full ot final! teeth, ufed for cur- 
rying horfes, 

C fcJRSONS. Spurs, or fnags. grow. 
ing on the Item.-- and branches of th^ 
apple, cunant, and other fruit-trees. 

CURTILAGE. A piece of ground 
near the dwelling houfe. 

CUSTARD Apple. See Apple. 
CUSPATED Flowers 3 thofe whofe 
petals, or flower-leaves, end in a point. 

CUTTINGS. Pieces cut off for the 
purpofc of planting. 

CYDER. The expreffed juice of 
app es fermented. 

In t lie improvement of Cyder ob- 
ferve. that all the apples be peimitted 
to drop from the tree, that they may 
h ,ve the full benefit of the ftock on 
which they grew, and ot the fun, their 
folter-father : for by ftriking down the 
fiuit before it is iipe, the buds are 
ftruck off with it, the tree is injured, 
and the cyder that i- made is tart and 
haifh, for want of time to meliorate 
the juice. 

Let your apples (efpecially in windy 
and tempefruous v. eather) be gathered 
up or ce or twice a week, and thrown 
together in fome fecure place without 
doors ; for hoarding the fruit in a 
houfe, is apt to give the juice a mufty 
tafte, for the want of a free and open 
air. It alfo prevents the cyder from 
quick refining, by rendering the juice 
fiat, dead, heavy, and unapt for fer- 
ment ttion. 

Let your apple-heap be made on 
flaming and open ground towards the 
fouth, that the falling rains may fleet 
from it, and that your fruit may be 
expofed to the eye of the fun. 

To ereel a (light covering of reed 
over the apple-heap, fupported by four 
tall fucks, will be very proper; the 
fore and higher part of the covering 
fronting the fouth. By the fhed fo 
contrived, 



C Y D 



C Y D 



••ntrived, and fituated, your fruit may 
have the refreshment of the air, be de- 
fended from rain, and be alfo vifited 
by the fun. But let the bottom of the 
apple-heap be covered, or paved with 
broad ftones, and edged round with 
the like fort, to keep the fruit clean 
and clofe together. 

Let your apples lie in the heap a 
longer or fhorter time, according to 
the nature of them. Mediates, for in- 
stance, being of a hard kind, and their 
juice aufttre, require a month in the 
neap, or more; whereas white-fours, 
being of a fofter and more early fort, 
a. fortnight, or lefs, for them may be 
Sufficient. But the time for each muil 
be proportioned to the ripenefs of the 
fruit, and to the various difpofitions of 
the air and weather. For, according 
to the quality of the fruit, and the 
temperament of the air, the apples run 
fooner or later to decay. 

When the apples are pounded, let 
the muck lie a day before it is fquee- 
sed. It will improve the colour of 
your cyder, and render it of a deeper 
♦omplexion. 

If you make a tun of cyder at one 
time, and have a veffel large enough 
to contain it all, it is a good way to 
Veep it together, that it may all be- 
come fine at the fame time, and be fit 
for racking. 

When your cyder is fine, (which it 
fcmetimes happens to be within a day 
©r two, efpecially upon a dry north- 
ern, or eaftern wind) then, by a cock 
placed within half a foot of the bottom 
of the veffel, always allowing room 
for the dregs to fettle in ; it muft be 
racked oft" into hogfheads. 

But although cyder be racked never 
fo fine at firft, it will ferment again and 
become foul, efpecially in rainy and 
•empeftuous weather, and upon fouth- 
•rn and weliern winds ; and then your 
♦yder may require feveral rackings be- 
fore you give over your care about it : 
far all wet feafons are injurious to 
new cyder, by cauring a conftant fer- 
mentation for a month or fix week*, 
and longer too, if the rough winds and 
foul weather do fo long continue. 
You muft therefore be very obfervant 
ef them, and watchful againft them, 
by frequent racking, whether your 
cyder be fine or not ; in order to pie- 
vent its over fermentation, and to 
keep It quiet. 



Let this be a ftanding rule for y«ir 
firft racking; namely, to fet about it 
when the thick red head or cruft which 
covered the cyder, begins to feparate, 
and white bubbles do appear ; that 
fo, by its kindly warmth, a fermenta- 
tion may be promoted. For although 
your cyder be foul at that very junc- 
ture, it is yet very proper to rack it, 
othcrwifc your cyder may become in- 
curable ; for it will then (efpecially in 
wet weather) inftead of a gentle fer- 
mentation, be put upon the fret, and 
fing; the wild notes whereof may be 
heard at a confiderable diftance, till it 
becomes pale, thin, and languid ; and 
hath fung itfelf to death. 

To prevent wafte in racking, and, 
at the fame time, to difpofe cyder for 
becoming fine the fooner, recourfe 
muft be had to ftraining. 

Get flannel enough for five or fix 
bags, each containing five or fix 
quarts. Let thofe bags be made of a 
conical figure, like a fugar-loaf, and 
the fmall ends hang downwards, that 
the cyder, by its impending weight, 
may the fooner be impreffed through 
them. Let the upper and open parts 
be edged or bound round with inkle ; 
that they may the better fupport the 
weight of the liquor. 

When your bags are thus prepared, 
get a ftrong hoop, and having faftened 
two flicks acrofs in it, tie up your 
bags to them. The center, where the 
two fticks meet, having a rope fixed 
to it, and the bags being made to hang 
perpendicular over a large vefTel, pour 
that cyder into them, which remains 
at the bottom of e^ch hogfhead after 
racking; and which is too foul to be 
mixed with the reft. By this method 
abundance of cyder, (and fit for com- 
mon life) may be preferved, which 
muft otherwife have been thrown a- 
vvay with the lees. 

An empty hogfhead muft be kept 
on purpofe for the reception of the 
ftrained cyder, into which it muft be 
thrown from time to time, as foon 
as it is ftrained. The cafk muft 
be clofely bunged, as often as the cy- 
der is thrown into it, left the liquor 
become flat by being too much expoied 
in an open veffel. The ftrained cyder 
muft alfo be racked, when there is a 
good quantity of it together, and it is 
become tolerably fine. 

To adapt your eyder to all palates, 
you 



e y b 



c y d 



you may, either at your laft racking, 
•r jurt before you bung and (top it up, 
mix feveral forts together, and fo ren- 
der your cyder rough or mellow, to 
what degree you think fit. 

By thus mixing your cyder, you 
may give all that you intend for your 
ewn table, the agreeable tafte of the 
white-four. The juice of this pom- 
royal being of fuch a predominant 
quality, as to communicate its flavour, 
in a very dfltjnguifhed manner, to all 
the cyder with which it is in any due 
degree mixed, providence feems to have 
ordained it for this very purpofe. 

Various are the piadlices of people 
in flopping up their cyder ; fome doing 
it early, and others leaving it open till 
Chriflmas, and longer, if the weatiier 
•ontinues mild, or the froft be not 
fevere. 

Due regard ought to be had to the 
nature of the fruit, and the tims of 
pounding : for as the cyder which is 
iirft made may, at Chriflmas, be twice 
as old as the laft pounding ; fo, com- 
ing from a more early fruit, and there- 
fore fooner difcharging its windy efflu- 
via, (the only ufe and end of its being 
left open at all) it ought, for that very 
reafon, to be the fooner bunged up. 

While your cyder continueth un- 
ftopped, a flight and loofe covering of 
board, which may reach from hoop to 
hoop, ought to be put over the bung- 
bole, to prevent the duft, rats, and 
other annoyances, from breaking the 
thin film, or unftuous fubftance, 
which invefteth the furface of the cy- 
der ; as a guard intended by nature 
for its prefervatiou, like oil upon r 
cafk of Florence wine. 

Efpecial care muft be taken alfo to 
fill the hogfhead to the very top of thi 
bung-hole, at the laft racking; that 
if any light or flying lees remain in 
the liquor, they may be removed at 
the bung : for this is frequently the 
cafe of mellow cyder : and if thofe 
lees are permitted to remain in it, the 
furface of them, by being expofed to 
the air, will become four. That tart- 
nefs will, by degrees, render all the 
cyder (whether it be in a hoglhead, or 
in a larger veflel) of the fame com- 
pleclion. Yea, the taint may be per- 
ceived to defcend gradually : for while 
the cyder is four at tl e top, it is found 
a few inches helow it, till it defcends 
fr»m head to f»;t, frr m top to bottom. 



This is the grand article in which 
people are wont to be deceived, and 
which they are rendered out of lov* 
with racking of cyder, how much fo- 
ever they are pleafed with it, when it 
happens to anfwer their wilhes : for 
when their cyder turns four, they ar« 
fo weak as to imagine that racking 
takes away the fpirit of it, and that is 
muft then become four of courfe, fot 
want of a body to fupport it, as thej 
are wont to fpeak ; whereas, in truth, 
it grows four for want of fkill how to 
fecure it after the laft racking ; by re- 
moving the light lees which fwim on 
the top of the liquor, before they ac- 
quire any the leaft degree of aciditf 
from the impending air, to which th« 
cyder is expofed. And if the hogfhead 
is not full, or the bung-hole is noi 
large enough to admit the doing oS 
this by a fpoon, the cyder muft b# 
racked again, though it be as clear a* 
rock-water, or as fine as amber: and 
racking indeed is the fureft way ; fot 
fome of the lees may efcape the fpoon, 
and therefore there is no certain d%- 
pendance upon it. 

And under the article of racking I 
muft moreover obferve, that the per- 
fon employed in racking your cyder, 
muft be particularly careful to wafh 
and dry his ftraining bags, racking, 
tubs and buckets, left they caft a four 
look upon hirn as the time of his next 
racking. He muft be as neat in his 
cellar, as a maid in her dairy. N» 
more marks of a floven muft appeal 
in the veflels of the one, than of a flut 
in the utenfils of the other. For want 
of this precaution, as the dairy abounds 
with a worfe than Corniih four-milk, 
fo the cellar is ftocked with a defpi- 
cable fort of vinegar. 

CYON, a young tree or flip fpring- 
ing from an oid one. 

CYPRESS-TREE, [Cuf>retfus y ] The 
fpecies arc ; ift, the female, or upright 
common Cyprefs ; 2d, male fpread- 
ing ; 3d, Portugal fpreading 5 4th, 
Virginian, or deciduous 5 5th, Dwarf 
Maryland j 6th, Cyprefs, with narrow 
fingle leaves, placed crofsways. 

They are all raifed abundantly by 
feeds, which are obtainable from the 
cones. The feafon for fowing them is 
any time in March, on a bed or bor- 
der of common light earth ; obferving, 
if the weather be warm and dry in 
April and May, to give th«m a little 
water 



D A F 



DAP 



water now and then. In about fix or 
eight weeks they will come up ; ob- 
ferve to keep them free of weeds, and 
wat r them during the fummer now 
and tnen, if there fliould be occ-ifion. 
When two years old, tranfplant them 
from the feed-bed into the nurfery, in 
rows two teet atunder, and in three or 
four years they will he fit tor the 
fh rubbery. 

It the feeds were fown i'i pots, 
tubs, or boxes, and plunged into a 
moderate hot-bed, their growth would 



be haftened a monih on more. 

Garden Cypress. Lavrnder cotton. 

Summer Cypress, [Sicjuria.] A 
fpecies of gobfe-toot, oi' wild orach. 

CYTIbUS, Tiee-ueioii. There are 
many fpecies of Cytifus, all propaga- 
ted freely by feeds, and fome by cut- 
tin . Tliey are elegant and pretty 
flowering fhruhs and evergreens. The 
feeds (hot) d be fown in March, and 
require the common care^of, weeding 
and watering. Jec Ja///fo// z 



XXXXXKXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXJX 



D. 



DABCHICK, A water fowl. 
DAFFODIL, [Kanifi'us.] The 
fpecies ate; i Baftard NarcifTus, or 
common Englifh Daffodil ; z. Poe'ic, 
or common whi r e Naciffus; 3. In- 
comparable ; 4. Primrofe Peerlefs ; 5. 
Yellow, or hoop petticoat ; 6. Small 
Autumnal; 7. Polyanthus NarcifTus; 
8. Jonquil ; 9. Odoriferous. 01 fweet- 
fcented ; 10. Rufh-leavtd white; 11. 
Trilobate Yellow; 12. Minor Yeliow 
winter NarcifTus. 

Each fpecies has feveral varieties. 
They are all bulbous and perennial 
roots, but their leaves and flower- 
ftalks are annual ; all of which rifing 
annually in fpring, immediately from 
the crown of the bulb, firft the leaves, 
and in the mid ft of them the flower- 
ftalk, one only from each root, en- 
tirely naked or leaflefs, each termi- 
nated by a fpatha or fneath, which 
opens on one fide to protrude the 
flowers, and then withers; the flow- 
ers are all hexapetalrus, each fur- 
nifhed with a neciarium in the centre, 
and are univerfaliy hermaphrodite; 
they are large and confpicuous, ap- 
pearing moftly in the fpting feafon, 
generally from March or April until 
June, fucceeded by ripe feed in July; 
then the leaves and flower- ftalks decay, 
and the roots defift from growipg for 
fome time; at which period of reft 
it is the only proper time to take 
up, or tranfplant the roots from one 
place to another, or to feparate the 
off-fets ; for they all multiply abun- 
dantly by off-fet young bulks from the 
siain root, infomuch that a fingle 



bulb will, in one or two years, be en- 
creafed into a large duller of feveral 
bulbs, ciofely p aced together, and 
which, every fecond or third year, 
fliould be taken up at the above period, 
in order to be feparated ; and each 
off ft.t fo feparated commences a di- 
ftinft plant, which being planted again 
in ai'tumn, produces flowers the fol- 
low ing fummer, alike in every refpedt 
to thofe of their refpeclive parent bulbs* 

AH the fpecies are fo hardy, that 
they prpfpei in any common foil of a 
garden : obferving. however, to allow 
the finer forts of Polyanthus Narciffus, 
in particular, principally a warm dry 
fitutrion: all the others may be plan- 
ted any where in opon dry borders and 
flower-beds. 

The firft feven fpecies are thofe moft 
commonly known in the Englifh gar- 
dens ; all of which produce ornamental 
flowers; but the Polyanthus NarcifTus is 
among the florifts, efteemed the chief 
of the NarcifTus tribe, both on account 
of its mode of flowering, in a large 
clufter from each fpatha, and from the 
vaft fource of variety it affords in the 
different properties of its flowers ; fo 
that almoft every eminent florift cul- 
tivates this fpecies, and its varieties, 
with great affiduity, and are often 
particularly induftrious in raifing new 
varieties from feed, efpecially theDutch 
florifts ; and when any new variety it 
fo obtained, it propagates itfelf plenti- 
fully by off fets of the root like the 
other forts, whereby the ftock in two 
or three years will be greatly en- 
creafed, 

The 



X> A F 



D A F 



The beft general feafon for plan- 
ting all thefe bulbs is autumn, from 
about the beginning or middle of 
September, until November, in which 
they will flower confiderably Aronger, 
as well as furnifh a greater increafe of 
ofF-fets than thofe planted later, or 
not till fpring: if, however, fome 
roots are retained out of ground until 
February, they will fucceed thofe of 
the autumnal planting in flowering, 
whereby you may vary and prolong 
the continuance of the bloom ; but 
thefe late-planted roots always flower 
weaker, fome not at all, and at beft 
with inferior beauty, and fhorter con- 
tinuance, and furnifh but a bad in- 
creafe of roots ; therefore always con- 
sider autumn as the proper planting 
feafon for the principal blow. 

In planting them, obferve the fol- 
lowing modes of difpolition : 

Thofe you defign to difpofe in the 
open borders or other compartments, 
in affemblage with any other bulbous 
flowers, &c. we fhould advife to be 
depofited in little patches, of about 
three or four roots in each, planting 
them either with a blunt dibble, or 
hole them in with a garden trowel, 
four inches deep ; in which mode of 
difpofition they will (hew their flowers 
more confpicuoufly and ornamental 
than it planted fingly, as each patch 
of plants will difplay their flowers in 
a duller, which will ftrike the eye 
molt agreeably. 

When intended to plant a quantity 
in beds by themfelves, in order to ex- 
hibit a full bloom all together in one 
place, as is often pradtifed to the fine 
Polyanthus NarcifTus, Jonquils, &c. 
have the beds four feet wide, with 
al'eys of a foot and a half, or two feet 
wide between ; in which beds plant 
the roots in rows- lengthways, nine 
inches afunder ; planting them either 
with a blunt-ended dibble, or drill 
them in with a hoe, about four inches 
deep, and fix diflant in each row, co- 
vering them regularly with the earth, 
and take the furface fmooth. 

Having planted the roots in either 
ef thefe methods, all the culture they 
require is to be kept clean from 
weeds ; and they will all flower in due 
perfection the following fpring and 
fummer. 

But the Polyanthus Narciffus, and 
Jonquil, being of the multiflorous 
V01..I. 



kinds, and confidered of fuperior va- 
lue and beauty ; to blow them in the 
higheft perfection, curious florifb be- 
llow particular care in their culture ; 
fome prepare beds of compolt, as for 
the fine hyacinths, Sec. and manage 
them in the fame manner, particularly 
the Polyanthus Narciffus : remark, 
however, that in default of fuch pre- 
pared compolts, &c. you need not be 
under any great anxiety, for they ge- 
nerally fucceed very well in any good, 
light, rich earth of a garden, in a 
warm, funny, fheltered fituation, with 
the beds a little elevated above the 
common level, out of the reach of co- 
pious moifture in winter; fo having 
the ground formed into four-feet-wide 
beds, in which plant the roots in rows 
nine inches afunder; and in winter, 
and early in fpring, give occalional 
fhelter of mats from cutting frofts, 
and other inclement weather, efpeci- 
ally after the flower-buds appear above 
ground. 

All the forts of thefe bulbs, planted 
in either of the above methods, may 
be fuffered to remain in the ground 
two or three years, or more, unre- 
moved ; when, by their being increa- 
fed by off-fets into large bunches, each 
will fend up feveral flower-ftalks, and 
fhew a large clufter of flowers, ap- 
pearing confiderably more confpicuous 
and beautiful than when the flower- 
ftalks rife fingly : remark, however, 
it is proper to take up the bulbs in ge- 
neral every third or fourth year, in 
order to feparate the off-fets, which in 
that time will be increafed fo greatly 
in number, that the bulbs prefflng 
clofe againft one another, the inner 
ones will be fo much compreffed and 
weakened, as greatly to impede their 
efforts for flowering. 

The only proper time of the year 
for taking up all the forts, is foon after 
they have done flowering, when their 
leaves and flower-ftalks affume a fl ate 
of decay ; at which time of lifting the 
bulbs, feparate them all fingly, and 
the fmaller off-fets from the larger, 
referving the large roots for planting 
again in* the principal compartments, 
and the fmaller may be depofited in 
Murfery-beds for a year or two, to gain 
flrength, when they will become pro- 
per blowing roots, and may be taken 
up at the proper feafon, in order for 
planting where wanted, 
N n When 



D A F 



D A F 



V/hsn the roots are lifted at the again, when moift enough ; and thus 
above proper feafon, they may either they will blow at an early feafon. 
be planted again directly, or in a But fuch a* have the advantage of 
month or fix weeks after; or may be floves. or hot-beds under glaffes. need 
cleaned and dried, and retained out of only carry their glaffe& or pots of bulbs 
the ground in a dry room, two or three thither, letting the former en fh~l\es, 
months, or longer, if occafion lhall and plunging the latui into the bark- 
require ; but. as before fuggelted, we bed, fee. they will have fine flowers 
fhould advift the principal part to be from December till the end of March, 
committed to the earth again in au- without much trouble. 



tumn, i. e. in September, October, 
or November. 

The Polyanthus N..rciffus, and the 
large Jonquills, are alfo in great elteem 
for blowing in glaffes of water, in 
rooms, in winter, and carlv in fp'ing, 
before thofe in the open ground con:e 
into bloom; any of the other fpecics 
may alfo be flowered in the fame man- 
ner; obferving to p-ocure iuch roots 
as were lifted at the proper feafon. 

The glaffes for this ufe aie a furt of 
bottle, of about two or three gill fize, 
narrow and upright, fix or feven in- 
ches high, with wide mouths to fit the 
bulbs, one for each glafs, ad are fold 
at all the glafs fhops. The feafon for 



We mull ohferve, that to enjoy the 
pleafure of thi-> winter fU ral-fcene of 
thefe kinds, the largeft bulbs are al- 
ways to be chofen, otherwife it will 
be impofiible to compafs it with any 
degree of periedtion. 

The bulbs made ufe of for this 
purp- fe, although they rarely ferve 
for the fame ufe again, will not 
be loft, but may be continued in vi- 
gour for increafe, provided they are 
taken out of the glaffes or pots as foon 
as the flowers are gone off, and after 
cutting off their tops and fibrous roots, 
plant them in beds of mould, to Hand 
till the proper lilting feafon ; in the 
mean time they will there multiply by 



ufing them is any time in winter, or off fets, and thus prove a nurfery ta 
early in fpring, from October or No- fupply your pots and glaffes. 



vember, till February or March : ob- 
ferving to fill them with frefh foft wa- 
ter, fo full that the bottom of the bulb 
may juft touch it ; fo place one bulb 
in each glafs, and place the glaffes in 
any light warm room near the win- 
dows, where the fun comes : the roots 



will foon fend out fibres downward 

into the water, and leave the flower- when they have done flowering 

ftalks at top, and flower Arong and the leaves and flalks begin to 



The propagation of all the forts of 
Narciffus is affected principally by 
their abundant off-fets from the loots; 
alfo by feed to obtain new varieties. 

By Off-fets. — All the forts increafe 
plentifully by off fet>ulbs fiom the 
main roots annually ; and the pr.- ;jer 
time for feparating them is in fummer, 

and 
ay; 



agreeably in the dead feafon of winter, at which time the roots may ei her be 

and beginning of fpring, attended with taken up every year or two, to fepa- 

a delightful fragrance, rate the off-fets, but fhould not re- 

The water fhould always be kept main longer unremoved than three 

up to the proper height in the glaffes, years, when each root will be then 

adding an entire frefh fupply every multiplied by its off-fets into a large 

th r e>.' ■■• eeks or a month. clufter, and, as we-before noticed, it 

Many of thefe bulbous-rooted plants is neceffary to lift them, efpecially the 

may be feen blown in the aforefaid principal forts, to divide the increafed 

manner, in great perfection, in win- parts; referving the main bulbs to 

ter and fpring, in the feed-fhops in plant for the fucceeding year's bloom ; 



London, particularly the Polyanthus 
Narciffus, and fine Jonquils, Hya- 
cinths, &c. 



and the off-fets fhould be fet in nur- 
fery-rows, drilled in three inches deep, 
and fix from row to row ; to remain 



The fame plants may alfo be brought to have one or two years growth, 

to early bloom in pots. Plant the when they will have become large 

bulb in pots of light rich earth, which bulbs, capable of producing flowers 

place in a warm room, as directed for in full perfection ; and being then ta- 

! glaffes, placing them in plates of ken up at the proper feafon, may be 

water occasionally, when the earth planted in autumn following, in any 

wants. mcifiuJr.g, and take them out place where required. 

By 



D A F 



D A F 



By Seed. — This mode of propagation 
?s rir°ly praclifed to any but the Po- 
lyanthus Narciffus, and that princi- 
pally U,r the fake ot new varieties. 
We would obferve, however, that this 
work of raifing them from feed is ex- 
ceedingly tedious, as it will be often 
fix or feven years before the feedlings 
will flower in .>erfedtion. It is never- 
thelefs praclifed by many curious flo- 
riffs, more particularly thofe of Hol- 
land, who exceed ail the world in 
their patience and indultry in raifing 
feedling bulhous flowers, for increa- 
fing the number of new varieties, 
which they often fell at a high price. 
The following is the method of 
raifing feedlings of the Narciffus kind. 
The feed ripens in June or July, 
which fow fcon after in pots or boxes 
of light rich earth, half an inch deep ; 
then place them to have only the 
morning fun till Oclober, at which 
time place them in a full funny fitua- 
tion for the winter, allowing them 
Shelter in fevere froft. In March or 
.April they will come up, give frequent 
fprinklings of water, and occasional 
ihade from the mid-day fun at their 
firft appearance; and as the warm 
feafon advances, move the pots to an 
eaftern afpedl, to have only the morn- 
ing fun till ten or eleven o'clock. In 
June or Juiy the leaves will decay, 
when (fir the furface lightly, and clear 
off the decayed leaves, all weeds and 
moffinefs, then fift a little fine mould 
over the furface, half an inch thick, 
repeating it again in Oclober or No- 
vember; and here let them remain 
undif+urbed till the third year, each 
year repeating the above work ; and 
in the third fummer, at the decay of 
the leaves, take up the bulbs, and fe- 
parate the largeft, which plant in beds, 
by drilling, in rows five or fix inches 
afunder, and three deep ; and the 
fmall bulbs you may fcatter, mould 
and all, on the furface of another bed, 
and cover them two or three inches 
deep with fine earth, which, after a 
year's growth, may be tranfplanted in 
rows. 

In thefe beds let the feediings re- 
main till they fhew flowers, and after 
the fecond year's bloom you will be 
able to judee of their properties, when 
mark the good forts; and manage 
them as directed for the blowing roots. 



Lily Daffodil, \_Amarill\s.'\ The 
fpecies are, i. Autumnal; 2. Ata- 
mufco ; 3. Jacobaean Lilly ; 4. Guern- 
fey ; 5. Bella-donna ; 6. Mexican ; 7. 
Ceylon ; 8. African Scarlet; 9. Spring 
Yellow Lily Daffodil ; 10. Oriental, or 
Brunfvviggia. 

The roots are univerfally bulbous, 
moftly very large, and commonly ob- 
long. The flower-ftem rifes annually 
from the root, in mofl forts naked, 
and unattended by leaves, and attain 
different heights, from three inches to 
two feet, and at the termination or 
fummit of each ftem, is produced the 
flower-bud, which is a flieath or fcab- 
bard, that burfts and protrudes the 
flower or flowers, which are large, and 
compofed each of fix oblong petals, of 
the liliaceous form, appearing chiefly 
in autumn, and when they fade the 
leaves come up, which are generally 
long and narrow, fome large and flag- 
gy, and which, together with the main 
bulbs and off-fets, continue growing 
until May or June, when the leaves de- 
cay, which is the time to remove and 
tranfplant the roots, and feparate the 
oftfets for propagation. 

The Yellow Autumnal Amarillis at- 
tains but three or four inches in 
height, feveral (ferns rifing in fuccef- 
fion, each fupporting one large yellow 
flower, in September and Oclober. 

The Amarillis Atamufco fends up 
one ftem, fix inches high, elevating 
one large beautiful flower, carnation- 
coloured, changing almoft white, ap- 
pearing in fummer or autumn. 

The Guernfey Amarillis is one of 
the fined flowers that can be feen. 
The ftem rifes afoot and half high, 
terminated by an oblong fcabbard, 
from which burfts forth the cluftcr of 
flowers ; the colour a bright fhining 
red, fpangled with golden fpecks, and 
a deep red vein running along the mid- 
dle of all the petals. It flov. . ia 
Oclober, and continues a month in 
full luftre. 

The Mexican Amarillis rifes a foot 
high, crowned by two, three, or four 
large flame-eoloured flowers in March 
or April. 

The Ceylon Amarillis demands ef- 
teetn both for its beauty and delight- 
ful fragrance. The ftem attains two 
feet in height, furrounded by fix or 
eight fnowy white flowers, having all 
N n 2 the 



D A F 



D A F 



the petals beautifully ftreaked with 
lines of purple 

The Jacobaean Amarillis is a flower 
of fuperior beauty, and Angularity of 
fo/.n. The flowerftalk attains fif- 
teen inches ftature, crowned by the 
flower, there being only one, which 
is very large j the colour a beautiful 
fcarlet, with crimfon filaments, and 
yellow antherac; the petals are irre- 
gular, and their determination is cu- 
rious, three of which droop, two 
(land horizontally, and one erecT: ; the 
whole nods on one fide of the (talk. 
The plant flowers in fpring, autumn, 
or winter; and it is peculiar to the 
fpecies, that after having fent up a 
fiower-ftem on one fide of the bulb, 
it frequently fends up one or two 
more, in fucceffive order, from the 
•ther fides. 

The Oriental Amarillis fends up a 
robuft ftem a foot high, terminated 
by a large fwelling fcabbard, which 
protrudes a confiderable fpherical cluf- 
ter of fine red flowers, each of which 
have five of its petals turned inward, 
and the fixth ftands outward. It 
flowers late in autumn. 

The bulbs of all thefe plants may 
be purchafed at moft of the nurferies, 
and planted in Auguft and September. 
The two firft forts may be planted 
in any dry warm border, efpecially the 
firft, where they will flower annually ; 
the other being fomewhat impatient 
of fevere froft, it is alio neceflary to 
plant fome in pots, to have occafional 
fheker in winter. 

The Guernfey Lily requires protec- 
tion from exceffive wet and froft, fo 
fhould be planted in pots, to be remo- 
ved to occafional Ihelter during their 
bloom, and from the rigour of winter. 
Great numbers of thefe bulbs are 
imported annually from the ifland of 
Guernfey, for fale; they generally ar- 
rive in July, which, if procured and 
planted before the middle of Auguft, 
ibme of the large roots will probably 
flower the following October. The 
proper fized pots wherein to plant 
thefe bulbs are twenty-fours, which 
fill with light rich fandy earth, plant 
one root in each pot three inches deep, 
and place the pots where they may be 
fcreened from the mid-day fun during 
the hot weather, giving occafional 
moderate waterings, and about the 
middle of September, when the flower- 



bud will begin to make Its appear- 
ance, remove them to the full fun, t» 
remain till their flowers begin to ex- 
pand, then place them to have occa- 
fional protection from rains and boi- 
fterous winds, either in a green-houfe, 
garden-frame, or any airy room. 

When the flower fades, remove them 
Into a garden-frame foe the winter, to 
have occafional fhelter of the glafies in 
times of violent rain, froft, fnow, &c. 
As it is peculiar to this fpecies to 
flower fomewhat reluftantly,inafmuch 
that probably not five roots in twenty 
will perform that office the fame fea- 
fon ; therefore, permit the bulbs to 
remain unremoved three years, ma- 
naging them as aoove, and they will 
afford a more confiderable bloom the 
fucceeding autumns. It is, howeveF, 
always eligible culture t& tranfplant 
the bulbs once in the above period, 
into frefh earth, and feparate the off- 
fets, which plant either in pots, or in 
a bed of light dry foil, giving occa- 
fional flielter in winter, and in three 
years they will attain a flowering ftate, 
when they are to be treated as already 
diredled. 

The Bella-donna Amarillis is tole- 
rably hardy, and will fucceed in a 
warm dry border, with occafional 
flielter from froft. It is however ad- 
vifeable to plant fome alfo in pots, 
and manage them as directed for the 
Guernfey Lily. If it is indulged with 
a ftove, it generally flowers with 
greater luftre. 

The Mexican, Ceylon, Jacobean, 
and Oriental Amaryllis, are of tender 
temperature, which, though they may 
be prefcrved through the winter in a 
warm green-houfe, rarely flower, un- 
lefs the pots are plunged in a good 
hot-bed, under frames and glafies, 
towards the time of their refpeflivc 
feafons ot flowering. All thefe forts, 
however, fucceed beft in a ftove, and 
where there are fuch conveniences, it 
is eligible culture to indulge the plants 
with that temperament ot heat, when 
they will not fail to produce their 
beautiful flowers annually, and the 
Jacobaean Amaryllis often two or 
three times in that period. 

All the forts are propagated by the 
off-fets, or fmaller bulbs, that arife 
annually from the fides of the main 
roots, which fhould be tranfplanted 
when their leaves decay, and the off- 
few 



D A F 



J> A I 



ftts feparated for propagation, and the off-fets of the hardy forts in mtt- 

planted by themfelves, and in two or fery beds for a year, then tranfplane 

three years they will attain a due fize them where they are to remain ; thofo 

for flowering, when they are to be of the tender kinds plant in feparate 

managed as above directed, pots, plunging them in the bark-bed. 

Sea Daffodil, [Pancratium. J The Thofe of all the forts will flower in 

fpecies are; i. Common Sea Daflb- perfe&ton the fecond year, and in their 



dil; 2. Illyrian Multiflorous Sea Daf- 
fodil ; 3. Ceylon fingle-flowered ; 4. 
Double -flowered Mexican; 5. Am- 
boyna Sea Daffodil; 6. Carolina Sea 
Daffodil. 

The two former are hardy, and 
profper in the open ground, but muft 
have a warm dry htuation, and a light 



turn furnifh a proper fapply of off-fets 
for increafe. 

DAG. Dew. 

DAIRY. See Butter, Cheese, 
Mi lk, 

DAISY, [Bellis.] The fpecies are, 
I. The common perennial Daify, with 
a naked ftalk and Angle flower ; 



foil, and fheltered from fevere frofts, The annual Daify, with leaves on tha 

where they will abide for many years lower part of the ftalk ; 3. The Gar- 

by the roots renewing their leaves den Daify. 

and flower flalks annudly, and increa- The firft fort is the common Daify, 

fed by off-ftts. The others are tender which grows naturally in pafture land 

exotic plants, and muft be kept in the in moll parts of Europe, and is often 

hot-houfe. They are perennial in root, a troubleibme weed in the grafs of 

but annua! in ftalk. gardens, fo is never cultivated. 

All the fcrts have great elegance in The fecond fort is a low annual 



their flowers, and molt of them are 
enriched with a delightful fragrance, 
and demand our attention for culture 
in the pleafure-garden and ftove 



plant, which grows naturally on the 
Alps, and in the hilly parts of Italy. 
This feldom rifes more than three in- 
ches high, with an upright ltalk. 



The two hardy forts are proper for which is garnifhed with leaves on the 

the pleafure-garden, but fhould have lower part, but the upper part is 

a warm dry fituation, and light foil : naked, fupporting a Angle flower like 

the feafon for planting them is au- that of the common daify, but fmaller. 
tumn, that is, the roots being taken The Garden Daify is generally fup- 

up when their leaves decay, fhould be pefed to be only a variety of the wild 

planted again foon after; placing them fort, which was firft obtained by cul- 

about four inches deep, and they will ture. This may probably be true ; 

flower the year following; fuflering but there has not been many inltances 

the toots to remain unremoved for of the wild fort having been altered 

two or three years ; when they will by culture ; nor has the garden Daify 

be increafed by ofF-fets, and fhould be been obferved to degenerate to the 

taken up and feparated. wild fort, where they have been fome 

Obferve, in fevere frofts, it will be years negledled, though they have ai- 

proper to cover the ground over the tered greatly with regard to the fize 

roots with litter, to protect them. and beauty of their flowers ; therefore 

The five tender fpecies muft be we fhall not confider them as diftinci 

planted in large pots, ar.d placed in fpecies, but fhall only mention the 

the hot-houfe: the feafon for planting varieties which are cultivated in the 

aad traijfplantirsg them is when their gardens. 

'leaves'decay : obferve this, and plant I. The red and white Garden Daify. 

with double flowers; 2. the double 



one root in each pot, which plunge in 
the bark bed of the ftove, where let 
them always remain ; and here they 
will flower ftrong at their ufual fea- 
fon:., and multiply exceedingly by off", 
fets. 

All the forts are propagated by off- 
fets of the roots, like other bulbs, 
which may be feparated every fecond 
or third year, or according as they 
multiply ; the proper time for which 
is, when their leaves decay ; planting 



variegated Garden Daify ; 3.theChild- 
ing, or Hen and Chicken Daify ; 4. 
the Cockfcomb Daify, with red and 
white flowers. 

The Garden Daifies flower in April 
and May, when they make a pretty 
variety, being intermixed with plants 
of the fame zrowth. They fhould be 
planted in a lhady border, and a loamy 
foil, without dung, in which they 
may be preserved witheut varying, 



DAM 



DAT 



provided the roots are tranfplanted and 
patud every autumn, w! icl. is all the 
cultuie ihey require, except the keep- 
ing them clear tiom weeds. 

Greater, o Ox-eye Dai s y, [Lcucan- 
theputm, Bellis Maj?r,~\ This is fre- 
quent in fields, and among corn, flow- 
ering in May and Jure. The leaves 
have a glutinous, fubfaline, roughifh 
tafte. They are laid to be detergent, 
refolvent, aperient, and alfo mode- 
rately aftringent. Geoffroy relates, 
that the herb, gathered before the 
flowers have come forth, and boiled 
in vater, imparts an acrid tafte, pe- 
netrating and fubtle like pepper ; that 
this decoction is an excellent vulnerary 
and diuretic. 

DALLOP. A tuft or clump. 

DAM. The female parent of ani- 
mals not human. 

DAM. A. mole, or bank to confine 
water. /. 

DAME's VIOLET, [Ihffcns,'] 
Rocket, Queen's Cilliflowcr. There 
are feveral fpecit of this plant, which 
flower in June and July, and perfect 
their feeds in Auguft ; they are pro- 
pagated by lowing the feeds in March 
and April, by dividing the roots in 
Autumn, and by cuttings of tie 
flower ftalks in the manner following : 
Having procured a quantity of thefe 
kind of cuttings, from about three to 
five inches long, plant them in a 
fiiady border, putting them two parts 
out of three into the ground, about 
three inches afunder, and give water j 
let the waterings be frequently re- 
peated, and many of the cuttings will 
be well rooted, and form fhoets at 
top in fix or eight weeks ; but to pro- 
mote their rooting more effectually, 
they may be covered clofe with hand 
or bell-glaffes, as foon as planted, 
whereby they will ftrike much fooner ; 
obferving, when they begin to fhoot 
at top, to raife the glaffes to admit 
air, to which harden them fully by 
degrees. 

Sometimes cuttings of the flower- 
ftalks of thofe that have flowered, cut 
down as foon as the flower begins to 
fade, and divided into lengths, and 
planted as above, will alfo grow, 
though they will not produce fo good 
plants as thofe formed of the young 
£alks early in the fummer. 

DAMSON,orDAMAscEN,[i'n.«tf);z 
Damafcenum.] A fmall black plumb, 
brought originally from Damafcus, 
whence its name. 



DAMASK ROSE. This elegan? 
flower is frequent in our gardens. Its 
fmell is very pleafant, and almoft uni- 
verfally admired ; its tafte bitterifh 
and fubacrid. In diftiliation with 
water, it yields a fmall portion of a 
butyraceous oil, vvhofe flavour exactly 
refembles that ol the rofes. 'I his oil, 
and the diltiiled w^ter, are very ufe- 
ful and agreeable cordials. Hoffman 
ltrongly recommends them as of An- 
gular efficacy for railing the ftrength, 
chearing and recruiting the fpirits, and 
allaying pain 5 which they perform 
without raifing any heat in the confti- 
tution, rather abating it when inordi-» 
nate. Damafk rofes, belides their cor- 
dial aromatic virtue, which refides in 
their volatile parts, have a mildly pur- 
gative one, which remains entire in 
the decoction left after the dirtillation. 
This, with a proper quantity of fugar, 
forms an agreeable laxative fyrup, 
which has long kept its place in the 
fhops. 

DANDELION, [Dots Leonh, Leon* 
todon.'] This plant is common in 
fields, and uncultivated places: it has 
feveral narrow, dentated leaves lying 
on the ground, with a (lender naked 
italk fuftaining a yellow flower. The 
root, leaves, and italk, contain a bit- 
ter milky juice : they promife to be of 
ufe as aperient and detergent medi- 
cines, and have fometimes been di- 
rected in this intention with good fuc- 
cefs. Boerhaaveefteems them capable, 
if duly continued, of refolving almoft 
all kinds of coagulations, and open- 
ing very obftinate obftructions of the 
vifcera. 

DANEWORT. A name given in 
fome counties to dwarf elder. 

DANK. Damp, moift, wet. 

DAPPLE. Marked with various 
colours. 

DARNEL, [LtJium.] A troublefomc 
weed, the fame as cockle. «%* /?#//*/$■/?/& 

Darnel Grass. A troublefome 
weed or grafs, of which there are two 
kinds, the white and red, growing 
with ftalks and ears not very unlike 
barley in appearance. 

DATE-TREE, [Palma DaBylifera.] 
An evergreen-tree, brought from Afri- 
ca, and the eaftern warm countries. 

This Angular tree, like the reft of 

the Palm tribe, has no other branches 

than its large leaves, each of which 

being a compofition of a leaf and 

branch, 



D A T 



DEC 



branch, always ariling from the top, 
and as the old leaves fall, the Item 
forms itfelf and advances in height ; 
but although the leaves grow very tall 
in a few years, yet the rtem advances 
but flowly, and can never be expected 
to arrive at a flowering and fruiting 
flate in this country; it, however, 
merits a place in our hot-houfe collec- 
tions for its Angularity. 

It rauft always be kept in pots of 
rich earth, and placed conftantly in the 
ftove; and if there plunged in the 
bark-bed, it will make the greater 
progrefs : obferving to give proper 
waterings, and fliift it occafionally 
into larger pots. 

The propagation of this plant is by 
feed, procured from abroad, which 
fow as foon as pcfTible, in pots of 
light rich earth, and plunge them in a 
tan hot-bed, or in the bark-bed in the 
ftove ; giving moderate waterings, they 
will foon come up, and, when a few 
inches high, prick them into feparate 
fmall pots, plunging them into the 
hot-bed, or in the bark-bed, ai afore- 
faid ; where they may remain, giving 
frequent waterings, and fhift them 
into larger pots, according as their 
progrefs of growth may require. The 
berries of this tree are the dates of the 
(hops. 

Dat« Plvms-Tri.k, [Diof/yros.'] 
Of this there are two kinds, i. the In- 
dian ; 2. the Virginian, otherwife cal- 
led Pifhamin, Perfimon, or Pichumon 
Plumb. 

The firfl fort is fuppofed to be a 
native of Africa, and was tranfplanted 
from thence inte feveral parts of Italy, 
and alfo the fouth of France. The 
fruit of this tree is by fome fuppofed 
to be the Lotus, which Ulyfles and his 
companions were enchanted with. It 
is a tree of middling growth in the 
warm parts of Europe, where it rifes 
upwards of thirty feet high ; in the 
botanic garden at Padua, there is one 
very old tree, which has been defcri- 
bed by fome of the former botanifts, 
under the title of Guaiacum Patavi- 
num. This tree produces plenty of 
• fruit every year, from the feeds of 
which many plants have been raifed. 

The fecond fort is a nafive of Ame- 
rica, but particularly in Virginia and 
Carolina ; the feeds of this are fre- 
quently brought to England, where 
the trees are now become pretty com- 



mon in nurferies about London. This 
rifes to the height of twelve or four- 
teen feet, but generally divides into 
many irregular trunks near the ground, 
to that it is very rare to fee a hand- 
fome tree of this fort. It produces 
plenty of fruit in England, hut they 
never come to perfection here. In 
America the inhabitants preferve the 
fruit till it be Morten, (as is piaiifed 
by medlars in England, when they are 
efteemed a pleuf.int fiuit. 

Both forts .;re p'opagated by feeds, 
which will come up very well in the 
open ground; but if they are fovvn 
upon a moderate hot-bed, the plants 
will come up much fooner, and make 
a greater progrefs. Thefe are both 
hardy enough to refill the greater! cold 
of this country, after the plants have 
acquired firength. p A/*J 

DAUKE. Deadly carrot. M/t//ru^^-C/f/U 

DAWN. The time when the morn- C/H >c/~. 
ing firfl appears. 

DAY-LABOUR. Work dons by 
the day. 

DAY-LABOURER. One who does 
work by the day. 

DAY-LILY, [HemerocaUh.] Lily 
Afphodel, A kind of lily which de- 
rives its name from the diurnal dura- 
tion of its flower:., and by beirg pre- 
ceded by new ones daily on the fame 
plants for a fortnight or three weeks. 
The roots are perennial, but the 
leaves and flalk annual. They flower 
in June, and ripen the feeds in Au- 
guft, and may be propagated by part- 
ing the roots ; the bed time for doing 
which is autumn. There are feveral 
fpecies. 

DEAD-NETTLE. SeeARCH- 

AMGEL. 

DEADLYCARROT. SeeCARRc 

DEADLY NIGHTSHADE. See 
Nightshade . 

DEAL-TREE. See Fir. 

DEAN. A kind of pear. 

DECEMBER. The la ft month of 
the year. In this month we would 
advife, if not before done, all the iand 
defigned for turnips to be fallowed 
down, and the clover and young grafs 
to be well dunged. 

Produ&s if the Kitchen Garden this Month. 

Red, white, and Savoy cabbages, 
fome hrocoli and brown cole. 

Afparagus upon hot-beds, made the 
beginning of November. 

Several 



lot .'TlClK-k* 



d e e 



DIA 



Several forts of fallad-herbs under 
gbfles, or upon hot-beds, as crefles, 
lettuce, raddiih, muAard, &c. as alfo 
mint and tarragon, if planted on a 
moderate bed in O&o'otr j alfo endive 
and celiery blanched. 

Carrots, parfnips, potatoes, turnips, 
flcirrets-, fcorzcnera, and beet roots. 

Onions dried, leeks, forrel, chard, 
beet, with favory, thyme, lage, and 
many other herb* for foup. 

Fruits in prime, tr yet lajllng^ 

Apples. — The Nonpareil, Golden 
Pippin, Aromatic Ruflet, Wheeler's 
Ruflet, Pike's Ruflet, Kentifh F ippin, 
Holland Pippin, Haut-bonne, Rennet 
Grife, with divers other forts. 

Pears. — The Colm ,r, St. Cermain, 
St. Andrew, Virgoule, Ambrette, Lef- 
chafferie, Epine d'Hyver, St. Auguf- 
tine, Eeure d'Hyver, Louife-bonne, 
L'Armdotte. 

For baking or ftewing; the Catiline, 
Parkinfon's Warden, Union, with fome 
others of lefs note. 

As alfo Medlars, Services, fome 
Grapes, and other fruits, where they 
have been carefully preferved. 
Plants in flower. 

Some fingle Anemonies, Polyan- 
thufes, Primrofes, Stock Gillifl>wers, 
Narciflufes, Helleborafter, or bears- 
foot, Alyffbn, red-floweied Spring 
Sowbread, Tangier Fumitory, narrow- 
leaved Golden Rod, Aconite, and 
Snowdrops at the latter end. 

Medicinal plants, ivli-.ch may now be 
gathered far ufi. 

Savin, Bearsfoot, the roots of Beet, 
Elecampane, Fennel, Henbane, Lo- 
vage,Spignel, Butterbur, Hogs fennel, 
Hart's-tongue, Polypody, Solomon's 
Seal, Sopewort, Scorzonera, Skirret. 

Plants now in Jl-jiver in the flow or 
grten-houje. 

Leonurus, Candy Tuft-tree, yellow 
Jndian Jafmine, Aleppo Cyclamen, 
Geranium, Spanifli and Arabian Jaf- 
mine, double-flowered Indian Crefs, 
dwarf Sun-flower, African Shrubby 
Mallow, Senlltive Plants, Mexican 
Clary, African Wood Sorrel, Solanum 
•f feveral forts, Alkekengi, and the 
Amomum of Pliny, &c. 

Hardy trees and jhrubs in flcwer, 

Lauruftinus, Arbutus, Spurge Lau- 
rel, Glaftonbury Thorn, Virginian 
Groundfel-tree, upright blue-berried 



H«neyfuckle, Mezereon, Pyracantha 
in fruit. 

DECIDUOUS, Falling, not peren- 
nial : an epithet applied to fuch trees 
and fhrubs as ftied their leaves in the 
autumn. Thus the oak, the elm, the 
beech, &c. arc called dedduous trees. 

DELVING. Digging. 

DEMAIN, or Demesne, in com- 
mon fpeech, is the lord's chief manor- 
place, with the lands thereto belong- 
ing, which he and his anceffors have, 
from '.ime to time, kept in their own 
manual occupation \ but according to 
law, all the parts of the manor, ex- 
what is in the funds of free- 
holders, aie faid to be Demains. 

DENSHIRING, or Devonshire- 
inc. See Buknbaking. 

DEVIL's BlT,[MorfusDia6;li.'] A 
weed or plant commonly found in 
meadows and fields, bearing flowers 
of a pale purple colour, and having a 
faint fme'l. and a naufeous bitterifh 
tafte. It is a fpecies of fcabious. 

Devil in a Bush. \_Nigefia .~\ Fen- 
nel-flower, a very troublefome weed 
among the corn, efpecially in Italy, 
France, and Germany, where it a- 
bounds much more than in this coun- 
try. It rifes with flender (talks, near 
a foot high, which fometimes branch 
out at the bottom, and fometimes are 
Angle, garnifhed with a very few fine 
cut leaves, fomewhat like thofe of 
dill. Its flower is generally blue, and 
its feeds are rough and black. This, 
together with their being nearly of the 
fame fize with the grains of wheat, 
renders it difficult to feparate them 
from the corn, when the plant has 
been cut and houfed with it ; they 
blacken the meal, and deba'fe its value. 
This plant is annual, and therefore 
may be extirpated by rooting it out 
before it can feed, which is commonly 
in Auguft. There are two or three 
kinds, with double flowers, kept in 
gardens for ornament, which are pro- 
pagated by feeds. 

Devil's Dung. See Asafetida. 

DEW. The moifture perceived on 
the ground, on the leave* of plants, 
blades of grafs, &c. in a morning. 

DEWBERRY. A fpecies of bram- 
ble or black-berry. 

DEWLAP. The fleih which hangs 
down from the throat ot oxen. 

DIABETES, A morbid copioufnefs 

of urine, or the making water in top 

great 



ft £*> 



DIG 



DIG 



quantities. This diforder is very com- 
mon in horfes, and often terminates 
in death. 

Horfes fubject to a diabetes, or pro- 
fufe ftaling, if old, or of a weak con- 
ftitution, are feldom cured; they foon 
lofe their flefh and appetite, grow 
feeble, their coat flaring, and they 
die rotten. Of a young horfe there 
are more hopes, but he muft not be 
indulged with too much water, or 
moift food ; at the fame time give him 
the following drink: 

Take jefuit's bark four ounces ; 
biftort and tormentel root, of each 
two ounces ; boil them in two gallons 
of lime-water to the confumption of 
half, and give a pint three times a day. 
Let the horfe drink two or three 
quarts a day of lime water ; and if 
tbefe medicines fhould not fucceed, 
give a quart of itrong alum-pofftt, 
three or four times a day. 

DIAPENTE, A powder much ufed 
in difeafes of cattle— -Take of round 
birthworth roots, gentian roots, bay- 
berries, myrrh, and ivory ihavings, 
each equal parts, and make them into 
a powder. 

DIAPHRAGM, Midriff, or Skirt, 
as fome call it, in a horfe or bullock, 
is a mufcular fubltance that divides 
the upper cavity, or cheli, from the 
lower belly. 

DIBELE. A fetting-iUck, or inftru- 
ment to make holes in the ground for 
felting plains, &c. 

DIGGING. Digging ground may 
be confidered as a fort of garden til- 
lage, or neceflary preparation of the 
foil, for the reception of all forts of 
feeds and plants, and which fhould he 
duly performed annually, either in 
autumn, winter, or fpring, particu- 
larly for every new crop, and is alfo 
beneficial to crops of perennial Hand- 
ing, whether efculenttlowersor fhrubs. 
This operation is performed two 
different wavs, plain digging, and dig- 
iog by trenches, commonly called 
trenching. 

Plain Dfgitig.—-Tbte is beginning 
at one end of any piece of ground, bed, 
or border, and dig it one fpadt deep, 
right back fpit and fpit regularly to 
the place where you finish; the me- 
thod is this, begin as alorefaid at one 
end of the piece of ground you intend 
to <lig, and with your fpade open a 
trench quite acrofs, one good fpade 
Voi., U 



wide, and one deep, carrying the earth 
to the end or place where you finifh ; 
then, keeping your face to the open- 
ing, proceed to digging one fpade 
deep regularly from one fide of the 
piece to the other, turning the fpits 
neatly into the trench j and the next 
courfe againft thefe; and fo keep dig- 
ging ftraight back, fpit and fpit, ftill 
prefcrving an open trench, a good 
fpade width and depth, between the 
dug and undug ground, that you may 
have full room to give every fpit a 
clean turn, taking all the fpits perpen- 
dicular, and not take too much before 
the fpade, efpecially in ftiff land, or 
where the furface is full of weeds, or 
is much dunged ; fo giving every fpit 
a clean turn, the top plump to the 
bottom, and the bottom to the top, 
that the weeds or dung on the furfac* 
may be buried a due depth, and that 
the clean frefh earth may be turned up. 
As you proceed, break all large 
clods, and preferve an even furface, 
carrying both fides and middle on e- 
qually, unlefs one fide fhall be hollow, 
then carry on the hollow fide firft, in 
a kind of gradual fweep, inclining the 
fpits of earth rather that way, which 
will gradually raife that fide, and re- 
duce the high one; obferving the fame 
if both fides are high, and the middle 
hollow, or both fides hollow and the 
middle high, always keeping the lower 
ground advancing gradually before the 
higher, by which you will always 
maintain a uniform level, whether 
horizontal or declining. 

The fame fhoulrl alfo be obferved in 
beginning to dig any piece of ground, 
that if one corner is much lower than 
the other, carry on the lower part 
fomewhat firft, in a kind of eafy 
fweep or flaming direction, as far as 
neceffary ; likewife in finifhing any 
piece or digging, that if one corner 
fhall be low, and the other high, carry 
the digging gradually round upo the 
lower fide, fo as to firifh at the high* 
eft corner ; and having digged to the 
end, or that part of any piece of 
ground where you intend to finifh, 
then ufe the earth digged out of the 
firft trench, to make good the laft 
opening equal with the other ground. 
In plain digging dunged grout d, if 
the dung is quite rotten, you may ei- 
ther dig clean through giving each 
fpit a clean t«rn, to bury the dung- 
O o plump 



D I G 



D I G 



plump in the bottom of the trench ; -where the foil admits, by turning the 

bu it you cannot readily do this, trim bottom fph to Hie top, renews the 

the dun£ a fpade's width at a timeiin foil, and by turning the exhaufted or 

to the furrow or open trench, and fo worn-out earth to the bottom, that 

die, the ground upon it, which is ra- depth for two or three years, gives it 

ther the molt effectual method, whe- a fort of refpitc to recruit new vigour 

ther rotten or long frefh dung. in its vegerarive quality, that being 

In the courfe of digging, all root- again trenpbed up to the top, will 

weeds which a e perennial, mould produce crops the more abundantly, 

be carefully picked out, particularly and in greater perfection, 

couch-grafs and bear bind, the Con- It is, indeed, good culture when 

volvulus Sepius, for the leaft bit of practicable, to trench two moderate 

itherwill.;row,itscrcafegreatlyinfiim- fpades deep, with or without the 



crumbs, for carrots and paifnips, and 
fuch like roots, which ftrike deep into 
the ground ; and for liquorice, three 
full fpades deep is neceffary ; for the 
often flrike 



rner. and prove very troublefome weeds 

But flight-rooting weeds on the fur- 
face being turned clean to the bottom 
will rot, and never trouble you again 

Digging by Trenches, or Trenching. — roots, the ufeful part, 
This is called trenching, becaufe the down four feet deep, 
ground is digged in regular trenches, 
trench and tiench, of two or three 
fpade's width, and one, two, or more 
deep, in the following manner. 



The merit of trenching in general 
is fuperior to plain digging for princi- 
pal crops, or any plantations, in that 
the top foil, all weeds and dung are 



Begin at one end of the piece of more effectually buried in the bottom 



ground, and open a trench by line and 
fpade two full fpades width at leaft, 
and one or two deep, and wheel the 
earth to the place where you fhall 
finifh, then mark out a fecond trench 
of the fame width, pare all weeds on 
the furface into the bottom of the firft, 
and then beginning at one end of the 
fecond, and (landing ftde-ways to the 
other, dig it the full width and depth 
as above, turning the earth into the 
fii ft trench, obferving, that if you go 



rind the frefh foil at bottom more rea- 
dily turned to the top, which is of 
ccnfidcrable importance in the growth 
of all feeds and plants ; therefore, in 
digging ground for any general crops 
or plantations of young trees, &c. we 
would advife to dig it principally by 
tienches, one good fpade deep at leaft, 
or two occafionally, efpecially when 
neceflary to renew the foil, or as you 
fhall judge proper for long-rooted ef- 
culents, as carrots, &c. or plantations 



two fpades deep, dig the topfpit along of choice fruit-trees. 
firft, then beginning again on th: end, In all trenching, whether one, two, 
dig the fecond courfe 5 then mark out or more fpades deep, always, previous 
a third trench, dig it into the fecond, to digging, pare the top of each trench 
and fo proceed, trench and trench, to two or three inches deep, or more, 
the end of the ground; remarking, with all weeds and other litter into 
that if you w«ulcl have each courfe of the bottom of the open one, which 
fpits in their feveral trenches their full not only makes clean digging, and en- 
depth, it is proper to fhovel up the creafes the depth of loofe foil, but all 
crumbs <>r loofe earth at bottom of weeds, as alfo the feeds of thofe that 
each courfe ; fo may dig either one may have fcattered on the furface, are 
fpade deep and the crumbs, or two regularly buried at fuch a depth, that 
and crumbs, as fhall feem neceffary, the weeds themfelves will rot, and 
but by no means go below the good their feeds cannot vegetate. 
fail; and one good full fpade deep, In trenching dunged ground, if you 
with a good paring at top, is for com- trench but one fpade deep, bury the 
mon trenching, fufiicient for general dung of each trench regularly in the 
crops of moil forts of plants, and bottom ; but if two fpades deep, it 
more than that is only neceffary on will be eligible to bury the dung be- 
particular cccafions, and for partial- tween the two fpits, that is, trimming 
lar plants. back the dung, dig the firft courfe, 
I would, however, obferve, that by turning it into the bottom of the open 
irenching occafionally two fpades deep, trench, tiien trim in the dung upon 

that 



D I G 



D I L 



that, and dig the fecond courfe, and 
turn it in upon the clung, and i'o pro- 
ceed trench by trench. 

When intending to trend 1 , for fpring 
crops, or even for an autumn or win- 
ter plantation, it is good culture to 
perform it fome considerable time be- 
fore, to lie fallow till the time for 
(owing or planting, to meliorate by 
the weather, but more particularly for 
fpring crops, fo that if it is trenched 
up in rough ridges in winter, to lie till 
fpring, and then levelled down, proves 
very beneficial to plants of all forts. 

We would alh, advife, that all 
trenching in winter, intended for fining 
crops, be trenched up in rough ridges, 
that is. inAead of forming a level fur- 
face, lay the earth of each trench in a 
fharp ridge, as you advance with the 
work, laying the fpits of earth rough, 
that the foil may lie hollow to leccive 
the greater benefit from the fun, air, 
and froA, to meliorate and enrich its 
quality. 

The above method of ridging the 
trenches, is univerfally pra<Aifed by 
the London kitchen- gardeners, even 
if the trenching is done in fpring, and 
is to lie but a week, or two or three 
days, for it is foon levelled down 
when to be fown or planted, and it 
greatly improves the ground. 

The ridges are foon levelled down 
in fpring, or when the ground is want- 
ed for fowing or planting, obferving 
to chufe dry weather for this work, 
levelling them regularly ridge and ridge 
lengthways, Airring all the ground, 
and preferve an even furface ; and if 
the ground is for fowing with fmall 
feeds, do not level down much more 
than you can fow the fame day, for 
fear of rain coming to render the fur- 
face cloggy, or the fun and winds dry 
it too much, at moA land is always 
in beft order for fowing while it js 
frefh Airred, for it net only fails to 
pieces more readily in raking, to cover 
the feed more effectually, but frefh 
Airred land promotes a quick and free 
germination in the feed. 

Gardeners that have large grounds 
often hire the digging by the rod, the 
prices generally according to the na- 
ture of the ground, whether light, 
loofe, clean, and eafy to be digged, 
or of a Aiff nature, and whether it is 
clean or foul with weeds, or not 
dunged, or dunged, and whether by 



plain digging, or digging by trenches. 

The prices by plain digging, that 
for light, clean, free-working gtound, 
is, about London, commonly two- 
pence, or two-pence halfpenny per 
rod, and if dunged, three-pence. Put 
Aift", (tubborn-wcrking land is often 
threepence, or four-pence, without 
dung; and where ground is very full 
of pciennial weeds, fuch as couch- 
grafs, bear-bind, and the like, which 
fhould all be picked out by hand, an 
extra allowance is generally given per 
rod. a halfpenny or penny, according 
as the ground is more or lefs foul. 

The prices by trenching is, that for 
one fpade deep, and a top paring, 
commonly from two-pence halfpenny 
to four-pence, according to the nature 
of the ground, and whether dunked 
or clean, or foul with weeds, though 
clean free-working ground is gertrally 
digged with dur.g one fpade deep for 
three-pence, and, if two fpade^ deep, 
from four-pence to fix-pence or eight- 
pence. 

A man will dig by plain digging, of 
light, free - working, clean ground, 
eight, ten, or twelve rods a day, from 
fix to fix ; though in fome of the light 
clean ground about London, we have 
known a man turn up fifteen or twenty 
rods a day, from five to feven ; on the 
other hand, in Aiff Aubborn foils, a 
man may work hard for fix or eight 
rods in a day of twelve hours. And 
that digging by trenches, or trench- 
ing, if only one fpade deep, without 
the crumbs, or fhovelling at bottom, 
a man will dig almoA as much as by 
plain dieging; and by double-digging, 
or two fpades depth, from four to fix: 
rods a day may be good work, though 
in harlh-working ground, a man may 
la 'our hard to get up four rods a day. 

DIGITATED Branched out into' 
divifions like fingers. 

DIKE, A dich. It alfo fignines a 
dam or mound to hinder inundations. 

DILL, [AKcthum.] The name of an 
herb cultivated in the kitchen-garden, 
and nearly refembiing tennel. 

Dill mull be fown where it is to re- 
main, for it will not bear tranful.int- 
ing. The foil fhould be ligi.t, and the 
feeds fown in the autumn, foon after 
they are ripe; tor they feidom grow 
well if they are kept out of the ground 
till fpring. When the planr, are come 
up, they fhould be thinned to the 

O o 2 diAancc 



D I S 



D I S 



tiirtance of eight or ten inches from 
each other, that they may have room 
to put forth their lateral branches ; 
and if they are afterwards kept clear 
from weeds by good hoeing, they 
will not require any farther care. 
When tluir feeds begin to be formed, 
fuch of the pods as are intended to be 
put into pickle for cucumbers (for 
that is their chief culinary ufe) mould 
be cut $ and when the feeds of the re- 
mainder deftined for fowing are ripe, 
they mould be dried upon a cloth, and 
then beaten out. If they are fuffered 
to fow themfelves, they will produce 
in the fpring a multitude of young 
plants, which will want no other cul- 
ture than thinning them with a hoe. 
and keeping them clear fr»m weeds. 

Their tafte is moderately warm and 
pungent ; their fmell aromatic, but 
not of the moli agreeable kind. Thefe 
feeds are recommended as a carmina- 
tive, in flatulent colics, proceeding 
from a cold canfe, or a vifcidity of the 
juices. Th« molt efficacious prepa- 
rations of them are, the diftilled oil, 
and a tinclure or extraft made with 
rectified fpirit. 

DINGLE. A fmall clough or val- 
ley between two fteep hills. 

DISC, or Disk, in botany, is an 

aggregate of partial flowers, forming 

a circular plane in a compound flower. 

DITCH. A trench cut round th« 

fences of a field. 

Every good farmer will keep his 
ditches well cleaned out, as well to 
heep his land* dry if they are watery, 
as to preferve his fences the more fe- 
cure. After a proper quantity is 
thrown up for the defence of his 
hedges, the reft of the mud affords 
an excellent manure, as it confifts of 
the putrid particles of animals and 
vegetables, mixed with the fineft and 
richeft mould ; and therefore proves a 
great improvement to any foil, parti- 
cularly the light and dry. But this 
mud mould be expofed to the air for 
fome time, that the feeds of the weeds 
generally contained in it may have time 
to vegetate, or putrify, before it be 
laid on the land. 

DISTAFF-THISTLE, [AtraBylis.'] 
There are three kinds of this plant, 
two are annual, the other perennial. 
They are propagated by feeds. 

The perennial is known by the name 
•f Carline Thiftle, and grows fpon- 



tsneoufly in the fouthern parts of 
France. Spain, Italy, and the moun- 
tains of SwifTerland, from whence the 
dried roots are brought to us. This 
root is about an inch thick, externally 
of a reddifl; brown colour, corroded 
as it were en the furface, and' perfo- 
rated with numerous fmall holes, ap- 
pearing when cut as if worm-eaten. 
It has a ftrong fmell, and an acrid, 
bitter, aromatic tafte. Carline is 
looked on as a warm diaphoretic and 
alexipharmac ; and has been for fome 
time greatly efteemed by foreign phy- 
ficians, but never came much into 
ufe among us : the prefent practice 
has entirely rejected it ; nor is it often 
to be met with in the fhops. Frederic 
Hoffman, the elder, relates, that he 
has feveral times obferved a deco<ftion 
of it in broth occafion vomiting. 

To DISAFFOREST, flgnifies no 
more than to turn land from being fo« 
reft to fome other ufe. 

DI.BOSTATION, is a turning of 
wood-ground into arable or pafture. 

DISTILLATION. Water diftilled 
over from certain plants, &c. by a 
toiling heat, becomes more or lefs 
impregnated with their flavour and 
virtue. The diftilled liquor owes rhe 
qualities it acquires to a portion of 
the oil of the fubjedl elevated and 
mingled with it. 

The virtues, capable of arifing in 
this procefs, are thofe only which con- 
fift in warmth, pungency, and fmell 
or flavour; and hence fuch fubftances 
as are eminently endued with thefe, 
are the proper fubjelts for diftilled 
waters to be drawn from : fuch are, 
fpices, warm feeds and berries, fra- 
grant herbs, flowers, and fruits, and 
fome of the acrid plants.— Cathartic, 
emetic, aftringent, bitter, fweet, cool- 
ing, emollient, nutritious qualities, 
are in vain expected to come over the 
helm. 

Some vegetable matters, even of the 
more odoriferous kind, undergo fuch 
an alteration from the aqueous me- 
dium, and the degree of heat neceflary 
in this operation ; that though the 
fubjeel lofes all its fragrance, yet the 
diftilled liquor has little or nothing of 
it, but proves both in fmsll and tafte 
difagreeable. 

In order to colleft the volatile vir- 
tues of thefe kinds of vegetables, the 
chemifts have contrived another pro- 
cefs f 



D I T 



DOC 



Cefs ; which Boerhaave feems particu- 
larly fond of. The fubject is included 
in proper veffels, without any addi- 
tional matter, and expofed to a heat 
no gieater than that of the fummer's 
fun : the vapour, which arifes in this 
degree of warmth, and condenfes in 
the receiver, is fuppofed to contain 
the more fragrant, fubtile, and aroma- 
tic parts of the plant; and to be in 
reality, the effluvia that would exhale 
from it in the open air, caught and 
collected by the means of art. 

This procefs, however, is, upon 
trial, found defective; the liquors ob- 
tained by it proving greatly different 
in fmell from the natural effluvia of 
the fubject. And, indeed, the prin- 
ciple it is founded upon appears to 
be erroneous. It is not the fun s heat 
alone, that raifes and impregnates the 
air with the odorous effluvia of vege- 
tables ; this fluid itfelf, as a men- 
itruum, diffblves and imbibes them. 

The natural effluvia of vegetables, 
therefore, which may be looked upon 
as an infufion of them made in air, 
may have very different effects from 
thofe parts of them which are capable 
of being elevated indiftillaticn. Thus, 
though the effluvia of poppies fhould 
procure fleep, or bring on lethargic 
diforders, Jind thofe of the walnut- 
tree bind the belly, (as they are re- 
ported to do) it is not to be expected 
that their diflilled waters fhould do 
the like. Lemery relates, from his 
own knowledge, that feveral perfons 
were purged, by flaying long in a room 
where damafk rofes were drying ; an 
effect daily experienced from aqueous 
infufions of thefe flowers, but never 
from their diflilled water. 

DITTANDER, [Ltpidium.] Pep- 
perwort. This grows naturally in 
raoift places in many parts of Eng- 
land, The feed ripens in Auguft. 
The whole plant has a hot biting 
talte like pepper, for which it is not 
unfrequently ufed by the poorer kind 
of people, and hence called poor-man's 
pepper. 

There are feveral other kinds brought 
from different parts of France and 
Spain, Sicily, Perfia, Aleppo, Virgi- 
nia, and the Welt- Indies. They are 
all propagated by fowing the feeds in 
.Autumn, and many of them muft be 
blended from the froAs in winter. 



DITTANY. A fpecies of orga- 
num, or marjoram. It grows natu- 
rally in Candia, and is ealily propaga- 
ted by planting cuttings or flips in any 
of the fummer months. In fmell and 
tafle the leaves refemble lemon thyme, 
but have more of an aromatic flavour, 
as well as a greater degree of pun- 
gency. When frefh, they yield a con- 
fiderable quantity of an excellent ef- 
fential oil. 

Bajiard Dit tan y. SeeBASTARD. 

DITTO. The fame. 

DOCK, [Rumtx.] There are abun- 
dant kinds of dock, and amongll them 
are claffed the patience rhubarb and 
monk's rhubarb. They are very trou- 
blefome weeds, and require great care 
to eradicate, as every bit of the root 
left in the ground will grow, and the 
feeds which they produce are very nu- 
merous. Only the two rhubarbs are 
raifed in gardens for medicinal ufe, 
and are eanly enough propagated by 
feeds. 

DOCKING. The act of cutting off 
the tails of horfes. 

This operation is in general very 
fuccefsfully executed by the common 
methods, which are known to every 
farrier. But fometimes a mifcarriage 
enfues by an inflammation and gan- 
green fucceeding. Thefe accidents 
probably arifefrom the tendons of the 
tail fuffering by an injudicious appli- 
cation 6f flie knife or fearing-iron, or 
in an 1'mprcper feafon for the opera- 
tion. Neither the very hot or cold 
months are proper, for reafons fuffi- 
ciently obvious. The operation fhould 
always be performed by incifjon, or 
the chopping engine : the knife being 
palled through the tail from above, 
whilft it lays on the block; for when 
the cutting iriflrument is applied un- 
derneath, the blow is given on the 
tail, which, by bruifing the tendons, 
may be naturally fufpected to occafi- 
on bad fymptoms. The fearing-iron 
mould be fmooth, and better polifhed 
than thofe generally ufed, and ought 
to be rubbed clean on a woollen cloth 
before it be applied to the flump; 
othervvife the (parks which fly from 
the iron, are apt to occafion great pain, 
attended with the fvvelling both of the 
fheath and fundament : nor fhould it 
ever be applied flaming hot, for then 
it brings, the burnt part away with it, 

and 



D O.D 



COG 



application, in order 

:i elchar on the veffcls ; 

h means the bone is frequently 

o much expofed, fo that it is 

en a cortfideraWe time before it. is 
covered. 

Farriers feldom apply any thing to 
the (tump, which need only be anoint- 
ed with the wound ointment, and 
when the efchar is digefled off, may- 
be wafhed withallum or lime-water : 
but it an inflammation enfues, with a 
difcharge of thin matter, a proper di- 
geiVive, compofcd of VenJce-turj 
tine, rubbed with the yolk of an egg 
and tincture of myrrh, fhculd be ap- 
plied, with a poultice of bread and 
milk over it. The rump fhould be 
frequently battfed >vith oil of rofes and 
vinegar, and a 1 rge quantity of blood 
taken away. If the fundament be at 
all fwelled, and the inflammation at 
all fufpedled to be communicated to 
the bowels, let cooling emollient clyf- 
ters be injected two or three times a 
day. Should a gangreen enfue, add 
^Egyptiacum to your dieffings, and 
fpirits to the fomentation : and apply 
over all the flrong-beer poultice, with 
London treacle, twice a day. 

DOCTORTIN K AR's WE E D, 
[Triojleum,] Falje Ipecacuanha. This 
plant is a native of Virginia, where 
their roots were introduced as an eme- 
tic, by Dr. Tinkar, whence its name. 
It is preferved in feveral gardens in 
England, and is hardy enough to thrive 
in the open air. It is propagated by 
parting the roots, and fowing the 
feeds, on a moiil light foil in autumn. 

D O D D E D Sheep. Sheep without 
horns. 

DODDER, [Cufcuta.] This is of 
the clafs of plants called paralitica!, or 
which grow out from the body of 
others. It has no leaves, confifting 
only of a number of juicy filaments 
matted together. There are two forts 
of it, cufcuta major, which grows com- 
monly in heaths on furzes, nettles, 
&c. and likewife in fields of flax, and 
other manured plants ; and the cufcuta 
minor, or epithymum, fo called from its 
being found only upon thyme. This 
lafl is preferred for medicinal ufe, and 
is ufually brought from Leghorn and 
many parts of the Turkifh dominions, 
with tops and (lalks of thyme amongft 
it. Epithymum has a pretty ftrong 
fmell, and a roughifh fomewhat pun- 



gent tafle. Its virtues remain as yet 
to be determined : the ancients ranked 
it among cathartics ; but thofe who 
have given it in that intention have 
been generally difappointed. 

DODMAN. TheShell-fnail, a pro- 
vincial term. 

DODKKD Wheat. Red wheat with- * 
our beards. 

DOG. A very ufoful well-known 
animal. 

DOGSBANE, [Apocynum.] There 
are feveral kinds of dogfbane found in 
America, the Weil-Indies Eaft-ln- 
dies, and Guinea; they are trailing 
herbaceous plants, bearing pods filled 
with feeds, whlcn are for the mofl 
part compreffed, and lie over eac-h 
'>ther like tiles on a houfe : thefe have 
each a long plume of a cottony down, 
faftened to their crowns, by which, 
when the pods are ripe and open, the 
feeds are wafted by the wind to a con- 
fiderable diftance; fo that, in the 
country where thefe plants naturally 
grow, they are fome of the mofl trou- 
blefome weeds. 

The down of thefe plants is in great 
efietm in France, for fluffing of eafy 
chairs, making light quilts, which are 
warm and extremely light, fo are very 
proper covering for thofe afflided with 
the gout ; as the down is fo extremely 
light and elaflic, that it occafions no 
weight. This the French call Dela- 
wad, and in the fouthern parts of 
France, where fome will thrive in the 
open air, and perfeft their feeds, there 
are many plantations made of thefe 
plants for the fake of the down. They 
may be propagated by feeds, layers, 
or cuttings. 

DOGBERRY-TREE, orDocwooD. 
See Cornelian Chkrry. 
DOGROSE. See Briar. 

DOGS MERCURY, [Mercttrialit 
Carina.] A perennial plant, growing 
wild in the woods and hedges in many 
part* of England. 

DOG-GRASS. Couch grafs. 
DOG S-T O O T H, [Erythronium.] 
Dogs-tooth violet. A plant that flow- 
ers annually in April, and may be 
propagated, by off-fets from the roots, 
any time between June and September. 
DOG's-STONES, [Orchis.'] Fool- 
ftones. Satyrion. There are eight 01 
nine different fpecies, and feveral va- 
rieties of each fpecies, which are aU 
hardy perennials. They grow natu- 
rally, 



DOG 



DOR 



rally, fome forts in meadows, woods 
and paftures ; others in dry, (terile, 
uncultivated places ; but for the beau- 
ty and Angularity of the flower, de- 
ferve a place in the garden. They 
flower in May, June, and July. The 
feafon for removing tiiem is after they 
have done flowering, when their leaves 
and ftalks decay. 

From a iate difcovery it appears, 
that from the root of the different kind 
of Orchis of our own country, (parti- 
cularly the male Orchis, which is 
found growing naturally in woods and 
fhady places in many parts of Eng- 
land) may f e prepared a powder to 
refemble Salep that comes from Tur- 
key : the alimentary virtues of which 
are well known, as well as its exor- 
bitant high price, which confines it, 
jn a great degree, only to perfons of 
affluent circumflar.ces ; but as many 
of the fpecies of Orchis are indigenous 
plants of Britain, growing fpontane- 
oufly in moft parts of the kingdom, 
and as they flourifh in almoft any dry 
barren foil, by a little culture, all 
ranks of people might, in a fhort 
time, be accommodated with this nu- 
tritious vegetable for making falep 
powder ; and for encouraging its pro- 
pagation, the fociety of arts and fci- 
ences in London have repeatedly of- 
fered premiums. 

Their propagation may be tried 
both by feed and by off-fets of the. 
roots. 

By feed. — This muff be very care- 
fully collected in the places where the 
plants grow naturally ; and fow it di- 
reclly in the garden, in a border of 
light earth, and rake it in with a light 
and even hand ; and if it grows freely, 
the plants may either be thinned and 
remain where fowed, or, when a year 
or two old, may plant them out in 
rows a foot afunder. 

By roots. — As before obferved, the 
roots may be procured in plenty from 
the places of their growth, taking 
them up when their leaves decay in 
fummer, and plant them direclly 
where they are to remain, three in- 
ches deep ; here they will probably 
increafe by off-fets, like other bulbous 
loots, which may be taken up every 
two or three years, at the proper fea- 
fon, in order to feparate the off-fets, 
planting the whole a^ain as foon as 



poffible, placing the off-fets in beds 
by themfelves. 

When defigned to cultivate thef« 
plants for ufe, the roots mould be de- 
pofited in beds, in rows ten or twelve 
inches afunder, and the depth as be- 
fore-mentioned. 

DOG's-TONGUE, [ Cymgloffum. ] 
Hound's-tongue. The leaves of this 
plant are, in lhape, thought to refem- 
ble a tongue, whence its name. It is 
cloathed with a whitifh down; and 
grows wild in fhady lanes. The roots 
have a rank difagreeahie fmeil, and 
rough bitterifh tafie, covered with a 
glutinous fvveetifhnefs. The virtues 
of this root are very doubtful : it is 
generally fuppofed to be narcotic, and 
by fome to be virulently fo. Others 
declare that it has no virtues of this 
kind, but look upon it as a mere glu- 
tinous aflringent. The prefent prac- 
tice takes no notice of it in any in- 
tention. 

There are feveral fpecies, fome an- 
nual, and others perennial; the for- 
mer of which are propagated by feeds, 
and the other by rooting ftalks, cut- 
tings of which may be planted in 
fpring, fummer, or autumn. 

Dogwood of Jamaica, [Robinia Ala- 
ta.~\ A fpecies of Robinia or falfe 
Acacia, 

Dogwood of Virginia, [Borbonia.] 
A fpecies of bay, called the Carolina 
Bay. See Bay. 

DOKE. A deep furrow. 

DOLE, or Dool. Along narrow 
green in an open field left unploughed. 

DOLPHIN-FLY. A fly deftrucTive 
to beans. The black dolphin-fly of- 
ten deftroys a crop of beans ; and to 
prevent this, one or more perfons 
fhould be fent into the field, with a 
fharp hook or fickle, to cut off the 
tops. 

DORE. Dores are a fcrt of infects 
that arc great deftroyers of all kinds 
of corn, both white and pulfe, whilft 
it lies dry on the ground, and before 
it fprouts; for when it begins to 
fprout, they will no more touch it; 
and the way they do it is like pifmires, 
to creep in at the fmall crevices of 
the earth, and finding the grain, feed 
thereon as long as it continues dry ; 
and though they are no hoarders, yet 
they are great feeders, and ever chufe 
out the fulieit and belt corn, and leave 

the 



D R I 



DRI 



the waner, which is a double injury 
to the hufbandman. Wherefore, the 
way to cure or prevent thefe dores or 
black-clocks, is to let the land, im- 
mediately before the corn is fold , be 
lightly fowed with fharp lime, the 
fmell or tafte of which proves a pre- 
fent poifon to them, and they die. 

DOSOME, applied to a fatting 
beaft, fignifies thriving. 

DOUBLE -LEAF. SeeBiroiL. 
DOUBLE-TONGUE. A fpecks of 
butcher's broom. 

DQVE's-FOOT. Geranium. 
DOWNY Leaf. Woolly leaf. 
DRAFF. Grains of malt. 
DRAG. A heavy kind of harrow. 
DRAGON, [Dr«»»fi((m.] A plant 
brought from the Weft Indies, where 
it grows naturally with trailing Ita.ks, 
which put out roots at every joint, 
fattening to the trunks of trees, walls, 
&c. and thus rife to the height of 
thirty feet, and is eafily propagated 
by cuttings. There are two other forts, 
one brought from Ceylon, and the 
other from the Welt-India iflands, 
but both require the affiftance of the 
ffcove to preferve them during winter. 
Dragon-tree, [Draco.] A fpe- 
eies of palm growing naturally in the 
Cape de Verd iflands and the Ma- 
deiras, whofe infpiffated juice becomes 
a red powder very like the eaftern dra- 
gon's blood. 

Dragon's-blood, [Sanguis Draco- 
»/'j.] A refin brought from the Eaft- 
Indies, either in open drops, wrapt 
lip in flag leaves, or in large maffes, 
compofed of fmaller tears. The wri- 
ters on the materia medica in general 
give the preference to the former, tho' 
the latter is not unfrequently of equal 
goodnefs : the fine dragon's-blood of 
either fort breaks fmooth, free from 
any vifible impurities, of a dark red 
•olour, whch changes upon being 
powdered into an elegant bright crim- 
fon. Several artificial compofitions, 
Covered with the true dragon's-blood, 
or Brazil wood, are fometimes in the 
room of this commodity : fome of 
thefe diffolve, like gums, in water ; 
others ct?ckle in the fire, without 
proving inflammable ; whilfl the ge- 
nuine fanguis draconis readily melts 
and catches flame, and is not acted on 
by watery liquors. It totally difiblves 
in pure fpirit, and tinges a large quan- 



tity of the menftruum of a deep rai 
colour j it is likewife foluble in ex- 
preffed oil, and gives them a red hue 
lefs beautiful than that communicated 
by anchufa. This drug, in fubftance, 
has no fenfible fmell or tafte; when 
diffolved, it difcovers fome degree of 

warmth and pungency. It is ufually 

looked upon as a gentle aftringent, 
and fometimes directed as fuch in ex- 
temporaneous prefcriptions againft fe- 
mmal gleets, the fluor albus, and o- 
ther fluxes: in thefe cafes, it produces 
the ceneral effects of refmous bodies, 
lightly incraflating the fluids, and 
fomewhat ftrengthening the folids. 

DRAIN. A channel or trench cut 
in the earth, to dr/in off water from / 
wetland. *5oe./0^^ <&*f*eL — -p l yj/*i*£- 
DRAPE. A cow jpmofe milk is juft 

dried up. ^Inn £ ■ J'Cc /!'/'/& Co. r 

DRENCH. A mixture or draught 
given to a cow or horfe, by means of 
a horn, cut for that purpofe. 

DRILL-PLOUGH. An inflrument 
for fowing corn in drills, rows, Sec. 

DRILL-RAKE. An inftrument to 
drill peafe. 

DRESSING. Manuring, laying on 
dung, &c. 

DRIFT. The act of driving. 
Drift of the Fore/l, is an exact 
view and examination taken at certain 
times, as occafion fhall ferve, to know 
what beafts are there ; that none be 
common there, but fuch as have right, 
and that the foreft be not over-charged 
with the beafts of foreigners. 

Drift-sand, is a good dreffing 
for young clover. 

DRIVING efBces. This is done in 
September, after they have done breed- \_, 
ing, (elfe will the honey be corrupted J^ 
by the fkaddons in the combs) by pla- ^ 
cing the hive you intend to take, with fl 
the bottom upwards, between three * £ 
or four flakes, and fet the hives you v -• 
intend to drive your bees to over the 
fame, binding them with a longtowel j 
then often clap the under hive be- 
tween your hands in the evening, and 
let them ftand till the morning, and 
clap it again ; fet the full hive on the 
ftool a little bolftered up, that the 
bees may have the free ingrefs and 
egrefs ; then clap the empty hive a- 
gain, and get as many bees out as you 
can, which will repair to the other 
hive. It it fomewhat troublefeme to 
perform. 









If* 



/£/ /a* : 



DRO 



r> r o 



perform, yet beneficial In fuch cafes, 
where there is a great flock of honey, 
and a few bees in one hive, and a 
fnir>!i flock of honey in another; 
whereby the hives of rooft of them 
may be faved, who will fo readiiy 
change their hungry for a more plen- 
tiful habitation. 

DRONE. The male bee that makes 
no honey. 

DROPSY. A difeafe incident to 
horfes, and is of two kinds; one the 
prcdudf. of a feverifh dilpofition ter- 
minating on the ikin, as often hap- 
pens in epidemical colds ; the other is 
thopfical, wheie the water is not con- 
fined to the belly and limbs, but 
fhews itfelf in feveral parts of the 
body, by foft fwellings yielding to 
the'prefiuie of the finger. This lafl 
kind ufually proceeds from foul feed- 
ing, or from the latter grafs and fog, 
that often comes up in great plenty, 
with continued cold rains, and breeds 
a fluggifh vifcid blood. In the for- 
mer cafe, we have feen the limbs and 
whole body enormenfly fwelle'd, aid 
very hard, the belly and fheath greatly 
diitended ; which were as furprifingly 
reduced in four and twenty hours, by 
■ flight fcarifications within fide the leg 
and thigh, with a fharp penknife, and 
three or four itiokes en the fkin of 
the belly on each fide the fheath ; from 
thefe fcarifications there was a con- 
ttant and furprifing large dripping of 
water, which foon relieved the horfe ; 
when a few purges completed its re- 
covery. 

In the other fpecies of dropfy, the 
curative intentions are to difcharge 
the water, recover the crafts or firength 
of the blood, and brace up the relaxed 
fibres throughout the whole body. 
To this end, purge once a week or 
ten days, and give intermediately ei- 
ther of the following drinks or balls : 

Take black hellebore, frefh gathered, 
two poui.ds ; wafh, bruife, and 
boil it in fix quarts of water to 
four ; then ftrain out the liquor, 
and put two quarts of white wine 
en the remaining hellebore, and let 
it infufe warm forty-eight hours ; 
then ftrain off, mix both together, 
and give the horfe a pint night and 
morning. 

Take nitre two ounces, fquills pow- 
dered three drams, or half an- ounce j 



c?mphire one dram, honey enough 
to form into a ball, to be given 
once a day alone, or wafhed down 
with a horn or two of the above 
drink. 
Take of the leaves and bark of elder, 
of each a large handful ; chamo- 
mile flowers half a handful ; juni- 
per berries bruifed two ounces ; boil 
them in a quart of water to a pint 
-and a half, to which add honey and 
nitre, of each one ounce. 

Cive this drink every night, or 
night and morning , and, to complete 
the cure, and firengthen the whole 
body, give a pint of the fubfequent 
infufion every night and morning for 
a fortnight, faffing two hours after it, 

Take gentian root and zedoary, of 
each four ounces ; chamomile flow- 
ers and the tops of centaury, of 
each two handfcls ; jefuits bark, 
powdered, two ounces ; juniper 
berries tour ounces ; filings of iron 
half a pound : infufe in two gal- 
lons of ale for a week, fhaking now 
and then the vefjTel. 
DROPWORT, [Filipendula.] This 
plant grows wild in fields and chalky 
grounds. The root confifls of a num- 
ber of tubercles, fattened together by 
flender firings ; their tafte is rough 
and bitterifh, with a flight degree of 
pun.ger.cy. Thefe qualities point out 
its ufe in a flaccid ftate of the veffels j 
and a fhiggifhnefs of the juices ; the 
natural evacuations are in fome mea- 
fure refirained or promoted by it, 
where the excefs or deficiency pro- 
ceeds from this caufe. Hence fome 
have recommended it as an aftringent 
in dyfenteries, immoderate uterine 
fluora, &c. others as a diuretic ; and 
others as an aperient and deobftruent 
in fcrophulous habits. 

Water Du opvvor t, \_Enanthe.~] This 
plant is very common by the fides of 
the Thames, each fide of London, as 
alfo by the iides of large ditches and 
rivers in many parts of England : this 
plant commonly grows four or five 
feet high, with itrong jointed ftalk's, 
which, being broken, emit a yellow- 
ifh foetid juice; the leaves are fome- 
what like thofe of the common hem- 
lock, but are of a lighter green colour. 
The roots divide into four or five 
large taper ones, which, when fepa- 
rated, have fome refemblancc to paff- 
P p nips ; 



DUC 



DUC 



fi'rps ; for which fome ignorant perfons 
have bciled them, whereby them- 
felves and family have been |oifontd. 
This plant is one of the molt poi- 
fonous we know; the juice, whicli is 
at fi ft like milk, turns afterwards to 
a faffrcn colour; if a perfon fhould 
fwahow ever fo little of this juice, it 
will fo contract every part it touches, 
that there will immediately follow a 
terrible inflammation and gangrene; 
and, whicli is worfe, there has not yet 
been found any antidote againft it; 
for which reafon we ought to be very 
careful to know this plant, in order to 
avoid it, for fear v\e fhould take it for 
any other like it, which would cer- 
tainly prove fatal. 

The poifonous quality of this plant 
hath led fome perfons to believe it to 
be the Cicuta of the ancients ; but 
according to Wepfer, the Sium alte- 
rum olufatri facie of Lobel, is what 
the ancients call Cicuta, as may be feen 
at large in Wep'er's book de Cicuca. 

There are feveral fpecies of this 
plant, all of a poifonous quality. 
DROUGHT. Dry weather. 
DUB. A pool or pond of water. 
DUCK. The duck is one of thofe 
fowls which nature has defigned part- 
ly for the land, and partly for the wa- 
ter, but is more of the water kind 
than the goofe. It not or.ly has feet 
formed for fwimming, hut the legs are 
fo placed, that it walks very indiffer- 
ently, waddling as it goes, and is na- 
turally more in the water than on 
land. 

The hufbandman who is fenfible 
that the more he obferves the courfe 
and defign of nature, the better he 
will fucceed in all things, will per- 
ceive from this, that whether he (hall 
keep ducks, or in what number he 
mail keep them, are queftions in 
which he muft be determined altoge- 
ther from the circumftances of his 
farm. 

As the duck will be content with 
puddles, he will find that he may keep 
fome of them wherever there is the 
lead water; that is to fay, he may 
keep fome ducks every where, for he 
can keep no creature without it ; but 
wlieie there is plenty of water, and 
roving room upon it, it is there the 
ducks will thrive, and efpecially where 
it is a running water. 

The only time in which the duck 



requires any care, is while fhe is fit- 
ting; becaufe then, being kept from 
going in fearch of her food, fhe will 
need to have fome fet before her ; but 
at this time the coarfeft and moft or- 
dinary kinds will do ; at other feafons 
fhe will live very well upon the fcat- 
tered corn about the yard, the offal of 
the houfe and kitchen, and what the 
current of a running-water is conti- 
nually bringing down to her. The 
duck is a very general and coarfe 
feeder; fcarce any thing comes amifs 
to her; yet her flefh is delicate. A- 
mong her good qualities may be rec- 
koned this, that fhe is lefs mifchievous 
than any other fowl ; and fhe lays 
abundance of eggs, which are as good 
as thofe of the hen, and hatches very 
numerous broods, which are fit for 
the market in the fame manner as the 
goofe, at two ages, when young, and 
when grown up; and in either cafe 
they are very eafily fattened. 

There are feveral kinds of ducks 
kept in England, but the greater part 
of them for curiofity ; fo that the in- 
duflrious hufbandman need not give 
himfelf any trouble about them : the 
two kinds he is to regard, are the 
common tame cluck, and the wild 
duck kept tame, for this breed will 
become fo familiar from cuftom of 
feeing people, and being among others, 
that they are as manageable as the 
other. 

Of the tame dutks there are feveral 
breeds, which, though they differ but 
in flight particulars, are yet worth the 
farmer's notice as diiiinci from one 
another, btcaufe of their different 
qualities or way of livings In general- 
the wild breed require more water, 
and the tame will do much better 
than they to be kept in the yard al- 
moft entirely, as muff be the cafe at 
many farm houfes. Among the tame 
are thefe differences; there is a nar- 
row-beaked breed, which is hardier 
llian the common kind, and will do 
with yet lefs water; and there is a 
breed that have the beak more turned 
up at the end ; thefe are found, upon 
experience, to be the better layers. 
They do not bring up their numerous 
broods fo well as fome of the others, 
but when eggs are the principal con- 
fident ion, they are to be preferred. 

The common tame duck does the 

beft in gardens and orchards, for 

thers 



DUC 



DUN 



there Is none of them th3t is fo cun- 
ning in picking up the worms, fnails, 
or other infects, or that devours them 
in fuch quantity. 

It is a very great quantity of eggs 
that may be had in the feafon from 
the kind juit mentioned ; and fhe will 
in the end fit very well, though the 
others better. In general it is lound 
more profitable to fet a hen on duck 
eggs, than any kind of duck what- 
ever, becaufe tie old one leads them 
when hatched, too foon to the water ; 
where, if the weather be chill, fome 
will be loft. They follow the hen a 
good while upon the land, and fo get 
hardy befo'etliey venture. 

About thirteen eggs is the proper 
number to let a duck fit upon. The hen 
will cover as many of thefe as of her 
own, and will bring them up as well, 
fo that every way fhe is more profit- 
able fur that purpofe. 

When the ducklings are hatched, 
they require no c^re if the weather he 
tolerably good; out if they happen to 
be produced in a very i iny feafon, it 
is right to take them nder cover a 
little, efpecially in the nights; for 
though the duck natura ly loves wa- 
ter, it requires the afT. t ance of its 
feathers, and till they ae grown, is 
eafily hurt by the wet. 

The fattening of duel ; at any age 
is very eafy ; and when r it be the 
duckling or the grown di. k, the me- 
thod to be ufed is exact y the fame. 
They a<e to be put into 9 quiet dark 
place, i.nd kept in a pen, w'lere they 
are to have plenty of corr and water ; 
any kind of corn will do, and with 
this fingle direction, they will fatten 
of themfelves extremely well in fifteen 
or twenty days, and will bring a price 
that veiy well repays their feeding. 

DUCK's-FOOi', [ Podophyllum.] 
This plant grows naturally in many 
parts of North America. The root is 
compofed of many thick tubers which 
are faftened together by flefhy fibres, 
and propagate greatly under ground, 
fending out many fmall branches, that 
ftrike downward. In the fpring arife 
feveral fiot-ftalks about fix inches 
high, which divide into two fmaller, 
each fu flaming one leaf, compofed of 
five, fix, or feven lobes, the five mid- 
dle being deeply indented at the top ; 
thefe join together at their bafe, where 
the foot-ftalk meets, which is faftened 



to the under fide of the leaf like the 
handle of a target ; the leaves are 
fmooth, and of a light green. At the 
divifion of the foot-ftalk comes out 
the flower, with a large impalement, 
covering it like a ./heath ; the flower 
hath nine pretty large, cencave, white 
petals, which are roundifh at the top, 
and plaited on their borders. In the 
center is fituated a large, roundifh, 
oval germen, crowied by a plaited 
obtufe ftigma, fiirrounded by a great 
number ot Ihort Jtamina, terminated 
by oblong, erect, yellow fummits. 

This plant piopagatss fo fait by its 
creeping roots, as that few perfons 
are of the trouble of fowing the feeds. 

UUCK-MLAT. ? [LcuhPaiuftr.i.'] 

DUCK -WEED. J A plant common 
in (landing waters. 

DUN. A colour partaking of dif- 
ferent fhaHe>, from brown towards 
white and black. 

DUNG. 1 he excrements of ani- 
mal , putiified vegetables, &c. ufed in 
improving land. 

Theie are two admirable properties 
in dungs, viz. the one is to repair the 
decays of worn cut or exhaufted foils, 
and to meliorate and fatten the earth 
and render it fertile; the ether is to 
produce a certain degree of heat wi.en 
formed into hot-beds, which, in fome 
meafure, fupplies the office toimed by 
the heat of the fummer's fun, by pro- 
ducing crops of choice plants, fruits, 
and flowers in winter, or early in 
fpting, that could not be obtained in 
the natural ground before fummer ; 
the former of which properties (as 
manure) is eft'tftcd both by new and 
old or rotten dungs, and that of vari- 
ous forts ; but the latter property (for 
hot-beds) is only to be found in one 
particular fort, i. e. horfe dung, inclu- 
ding the wet litter and dung together, 
as it comes trom the ftables, and while 
it is newly made, before it rots and 
lofes its heat. 

Dungs for manure — Various forts 
are recommended and ufed, according 
to the qualities they are deligned to re- 
ftore, meliorate, and enrich. 

As for example ; fome lands are 
very moift, heavy, ftubborn, and cold ; 
to improve which, fome dungs are of 
a hot light quality, as that of horfes, 
fheep, and pidgeons, &c. though for 
gardens, horfe or ftable dung, tolera- 
bly rotted, either alone, or mixed 

Ppj with 



2// 4. J** 



DUN 



D W A 



with light material:., is the beft of all 
to ufs in any confiderable quantity for 
fuch land : on the othc hand, feme 
ground is light, dry, and hot, and re- 
quires moifr, fat, and cooling dungs, 
as that of oxen, cows, hogs, &c. to 
render the foil fatter, and more com- 
pact to retain its virtue. However, 
a mixture of all thefe, i. e. horfe, and 
neat or cow dung, &c. tolerably rot- 
ted, will fuit almoft every fort of foil, 
or either of them alone, efpecially if 
thoroughly rotten, will prove benefi- 
cial to moft k ; nd of garden land. 

Horfe-dung, however,, is certainly 
the befl improvement for cold land 
that can be procured, and may he 
ufed fuccefsfully both nnv and rotten ; 
not however ufed new or flrawey for 
'/ti?/&cjj carrots, parfnips, or other efculent 






' ,/ ^ roots of fimilar growth, but for any 
Other above ground crops ; new horfe 
dung, jufl as it comes from the flable, 
may be ufed to much advantage in cold 
moift. land, which in fuch foils, Ire- 
quentlyfucceeds betterthan that which 
is quite rotten, as that of old hot-beds, 
or of the like nature. 

We may a!fo confider horfe-dung 
the moft ufeful of any for gardens, and 
is the moft common dung ufed as ma- 
nure in many places, efpecially after 
having rotted in dunghills, or having 
been previoufly ufed for hot-beds in 
winter and fpring, for early and ten- 
der crops ; which crops being all gone 
by autumn, or winter following, when 
the dung of the hot-bed will have be- 
come rotten and buttery, and is then 
carried off as manure, into the differ- 
ent departments ot the gurden, &c. 
and when thus rooted, is beneficial 
for all forts of foils, and is very en- 
riching. 

And as to cow or oxen dung, al- 
though it is particularly beneficial in 
Jight loofe foils, yet, when well rooted, 
it will alfo prove a good manure for 
any ; and with this, and horfe and 
ftable-dung, as alfo hogftye-dung to- 
gether, 1 mixed, makes an excellent 
manure for moft forts of land. 
. Hogs dung being very fat, is by 
fome recommended as the moft bene- 
ficial of all foits of dungs, and, when 
•-vtjl rotted, has often proved excel- 
lent for fruit trees, in a light foil, 
efpecially for apples and pears, but 
when thoroughly rotted, may be ufed 
*o advantage for all forts, in light dry 



Sheep and deer dung have been 
found great improvers of cold clayey 
land. 

The dung of pigeons and other poul- 
try, being hot and full of falts, is 
found good for cold wet clayey lands, 
but before uiing, it would be an ad- 
vantage, if expofed abroad in the 
dunghill fome confiderable time to 
rot, fweeten, and to mollify the fiery 
he3t natural to thofe dunjs ; and if 
then mixed with light earth, fand, or 
aflies, to keep it from clinging, and 
then, after having lain fix, eight, or 
twelve months, ftrew it over the 
ground in autumn or winter, in mo- 
derate quantities, being dug in lightly, 
it will tend much to facilitate vegeta- 
tion in cold heavy foils. 

Human ordure, mixed with other 
dungs, and earths, by way of com- 
polt, and expofed to the air fome 
time, will prove beneficial to cold, 
four, ftubborn land. 

For other forts of dungs, &c. ufed 
as manure, fee Manure. 

All dungs ufed on gardens, fhould 
be applied principally, either in au- 
tumn, winter, or fpring ; and if it is 
horfe o meats dung, or a mixture of 
both, or of hogs dung, or the like, it 
mould be laid at leaft from about three 
to fix inches thick all over the furface, 
but on poor land, if double that thick- 
nefs, it will prove the more beneficial 
to the ground ; but the hot fiery dung 
of poultry fhould be ufed more fpa- 
ringly, and that only to cold heavy 
land. 

DUNGHILL. A heap of dung or 

manure, colletfed about farm?, &c. ' 

DUNG-MEER, 7 Dunghill, or 

DUNG-MIXEN, } the place where 

dung is heaped together. 

DURZED OUT. An epithet ap- 
plied in the northern countries to corn 
beaten out of the ears, by the wind 
turning it in the field, or other ac- 
cidents. 

DWALE. Deadly nightfhade. 
DWARF-BAY, [Daphne.] Spurge 
laurel, mezereon. See Mezereok. 
DWARF CISTUS, [HeUanchemum.] 
There are no lefs than twenty-four 
different fpecies of this plant, fome 
annual, others perennial ; they are 
propagated by feeds fow'n in April. 
They flower in July, and the feeds 
ripen in Auguft. One fort, a native 
of the warm parts of America, re- 
quires 



D W A 



D W A 



quires to be kept in a ftove ; the reft 
are all hardy. 

Dwarf Almond. See Almond. 

Dwarf Oak, [ifyercusEfcuhs.] See 
Oak. 

Dwarf Elder, [Etulus.] See 
E l d :• r . 

Dwarf Trees. Thefe are fruit 
trees grafted near the root, that they 
may form heads, not more than from 
about four to fix or eight feet high. 

Under this head may be c nfidered 
not oniy dwarf- ft andards, but alfo all 
forts of dwarfs for efpaliers, and walls, 
which are alfo grafted or budded low, 
to provide branches near the ground, 
fo as to cover every part of the efpa- 
lier or wall, from the bottom upward, 
moft of which fort of dwarf-trees are 
grafted or budded upon dwarf ftocks, 
or fuch as are but moderate fhooters, 
particularly for dwarf flandards, to 
preferve them as dwarfifh as poffible. 
And in which the graft or buds are in- 
fetted, within about fix, eight, or 
twelve inches ot the bottom, 2nd tru 
firft fhoots from the graft or bud, are 
in fpring, when a year old, headed 
down to five or fix eyes, to force out 
lower fhoots to form the firlt fet of 
branches near the root, as a founda- 
tion for the upper part, and by fhon- 
ening thefe alfo, as above, if neceffary, 
a faither fupply is produced, to give 
the tree its firft regular form, whether 
as a dwarf-iiandard, or for efpaliers, 
or walls. 

Dwarf-ftandards, therefore, are for- 
med at firft as above, not trained fan- 
fafhion like efpaliers, or wall trees, 
but promoted to branch out low every 
way into a circular head, without be- 
ing trained to any kind of fence, and 
are therefore properly ftandards, tho' 
of dwarfifh itature. 

Thefe were formerly in great efli- 
maticn, and trained in three differ- 
ent ways or fhapes, viz. i. Concave 
Dwarfs ; being trained concave or 
hollow in the middle, having all the 
branches ranged circularly round the 
iftem in an afcending direction, fo as 
to form the heart of the tree hollow 
or concave ; 2, Convex, cr conical 
Dwarfs, being trained convex or full 
in the middle, fo as to form a clofe 
conical head ; 3, Horizontal Dwarfs, 
being trained horizontally, i. e. all 
the branches trained fiat, or in an ho- 



rizontal pofition, all around parallel to 
the furface of the earth ; but the con- 
cave form is the moft eligible; but 
neither of the methods are at prefent 
in much practice, and the mode of 
training dwarfs in efpaliers, is now 
almoft univeifally adopted.- in their 
Head; which indeed, aie every way 
preferable, both for convenience and 
bearing. However, a few trees fhould 
be admitted in large grounds for va- 
riety, and may be difpofed fingly, ons 
here and there, upon laige borders, or 
on open fpaces of grafs ground. 

They fhould be no where planted 
nearer together than twenty feet, par- 
ticularly the concave and horizontal 
dwarfs. 

The forts cf fruit-trees com '.only 
ufed for dwarf-ftandards, are apples, 
pears, plumbs, cherries, and fome- 
times apricots ; but any fort of fruit- 
trees may be trained in that form, as 
one direction ferves for all. 

The method of forming them. — 
And firft of the concave Dwarfs. 

To have proper concave dwaifs, It 
is neceffary to graft them upon dwarf 
flocks, that they may be moderate 
fhooters, and be cf as dwarfifh ftature 
as poffible; as for example, apples 
fhould be grafted upon paradife flocks, 
and pears upon quince ftccks, &c. 
and the graft or bud to be inferted 
within fix or eijht inches of the 
ground : fo as the fiem may not ex- 
ceed a foot or fifteen inches in height, 
and may form branches within that 
diftance from the furface of the earth. 

Having therefore grafted cr budded 
them as above, obferve, that the firft 
fhoots from the graft or bud, are to be 
flopped or fhortened in fpring, when 
a year old, to abovt five or fix inches 
in length ; or to fo many eyes or buds, 
fiom which to procure from four, at 
leaft, to fix cr eight ftout lateral 
fhoots, to give the tree its firft regular 
formation. Whe.i thefe laterals are a 
year old, and about two feet long, 
they fhould be then trained in a hori- 
zontal pofition in different <Jiieclions 
on each fide of the Item, by means of 
flakes; at the fame time top the e;id 
of each fnoot, and trim off the lower 
bud> or eyes, to promote a farther 
fupply of three or more fhoots only 
towards the ends of each cf t'.iem ; 
and this fupply of fhocts thus again 
procured, 



D W A 



D W A 



procured, are, from having one Cum- 
mer's growth, to be trained gradually 
in an attending direction, at equal 
distances all around, fo as to form the 
heart of the tree into a regular con- 
cave or hollow ; to alTift which, and 
effect a more regular concavity, fome 
wide hoops mult be placed within 
fide, fupported by flakes; and as the 
branches advance ia length, train them 
up to the hoops, fufflring no branch, 
to crofs its neighbour, but train them 
all parallel to each other, fix cr eight 
inches diilar.ee, in an afcending posi- 
tion as aforefaid ; obferving, if a far- 
ther fupply of fhocts arc (till neceflary 
to form the tree all around, at the 
above diftance, then fhortenir.g the 
laft produced fhoots muft again be 
pracrifed, either wholly or in part, 
as fhall appear expedient, to force out, 
in the proper places, the quantity 
wanted; afterwards train the whole at 
full length as duecled below in their 
general pruning, and they will then 
form all along their fides fhort thick 
fhoots, fcarce an inch long, called 
fruit-fpurs, as hereafter mentioned. 

A^ to their general pruning, ob- 
ferve, in the courfe oi ihat operation, 
that after the tree is furnifhed with a 
proper quantity of blanches to form 
the tree into its proper figure all a- 
round, the fhoots or branches are not 
afte waVds 'o be fhortened ; obferving, 
however, that when necelTary to fhor- 
ten any. either to force out a farther 
fupply of young wood to train up for 
bearers, or to preferve uniformity, al- 
ways make the cut on the infide, fo 
.as to preferve the uppetmoft eye, or 
that immediately next the cut, out- 
ward, that the leading ihoct may ad- 
vance in that direction, as hereby the 
concave form cf the tree will be better 
maintained. 

However, the fflortening the fhoots 
of thefe trees fhouid be fparing'y 
praelifed, particularly apples, pears, 
plumbs, and cherries, efpecially after 
having obtained branches enougii to 
form the tree all round, at fix or 
eight inches diftance, as before ob- 
ferved ; for ihortening promotes a 
great fuperfluity of ftrong fhoots, and 
prevents the branches from forming 
fpurs or fruit-buds, i. e. fhort thick 
fhoots, half an inch or an inch long; 
for all thefe fort of trees before fpeci- 
fiedj moftly produce their fruit upon 



fpurs, which generally firft form them* 
felves towards the extremity of the 
fhoots or branches ; fo that by fhort- 
ening, you cut away the paits where 
they would have firft appeared, and, 
inftead thereof, ftrong unneeeflary 
wood will fhoot forth, and greatly re- 
tard the tree in forming for bearing. 

Therefore obferve the caution, ne- 
ver to praflife fhoitening the branches 
of the kinds of dwarf-trees, but to 
piom.'te a fupply of more fhoots when 
wanting, or take off cankered parts, 
or fuch as have grown much too long, 
cr that grow acrofs the others; and 
which fhouid be done in the winter 
pruning, cutting fuch parts down to 
the next molt fuitable moot, properly 
fituated to fu;-ply the place of the part 
cut away. 

No branch mult be fuffered to grow 
acrofs anothei, but when fuch ap- 
pears, let it be cut out. or fo far re- 
trenched, as to preferve regularity. 

All fhcots r'n.ng in the middle of 
the tree, that may interfere with the 
concavity, fhouid be annually taken 
off clofe, either in the fu miner as they 
are produced, or in the winter pru- 
ning. Like wife, alter the tree is 
formed and furnifhed with a proper 
quantity of bianches all around, at 
equal diftance.-, all (hoots arifing from 
the fide:, of the bianches, fhouid be 
aifo difplaced annually, unlefs any 
fhall appear neceffa;y, to fill any pre- 
fent or apparent future vacancy, or to 
fupply the place of an> irregular or 
worn-out branch ; in which cafe, 
leave in the proper places fome of 
the molt promifing belt-placed young 
fhoots, training them up between the 
eld branches; obfeiving, however, 
that all fhoots evidently fuperfluous, 
or unneceffary, fhouid, it poffible, be 
difplaced in fummer, aceoiding as 
they are produced, which will prove 
more beneficial both to the foim and 
profperity of the trees and fruit, than 
if wlioly deferred till the winter; 
however, do not omit. that operation 
annually, either in fummer or winter, 
at either time cutting off all the above- 
hinted fuperfiuities quite clofe, and 
not leave any ftump, as from every eye 
of which fhoots 7?ould arife and caufe 
a great confufion of wood. 

If the tree produce vigorous fhoots 
at its extremity, it is neceflary to leave 
in fummer fome ftrong lower fhoots 

till 



D W A 



DYE 



till winter, to check the luxuriance of 
thefe at top, then take them off ac- 
cording to the above rules. 

Be careful at each pruning;, to ob- 
ferve if there is any appearance of a 
vacancy, or any very irregular, ill- 
bearing, or worn-out branch, or other 
weed that may want renewing j in 
which cafe, leave occafionally fome 
well -placed young fhoots towards the 
lower parts, training them up between 
the older branches, to be coming on 
gradually to a bearing ftate, to fupply 
the place of bad ones, or any acci- 
dental vacancy. 

Obferve alls at each pruning, to 
preferve, with the utmoft care, ail the 
fruit-fpurs, i. e. thofe fliort robuft 
fhoots ot half an inch, or femetimes 
an inch or two long, for it is from 
thefe only we are to expe& the fruit, 
which will be evident by obfervation ; 
but it any of thefe are become very 
long, ragged, or frumpy, or croud 
others of more eligible growth for 
bearing, it is proper to thin or regu- 
late them occafionaiiy, as you fhalifee 
neceffary. 

The principal pruning feafons are, 
the fummer pruning, which is per- 
formed any time in June or July, to 
clear out all evident fuperfiuous fhoots 
of the year; and the winter pruning 
is any time from November to March, 
to clear out alio all fuperfiuous fhoots 
©mined in fummer, and is a!fo the 
only proper feafon to prune cut all 
large branches where necefTary, either 
by being fuperfiuous, irregular, bad 
bearers, or decayed. 

Convex or conical Dwarfs. To 
form thefe, they muft be grafted cr 
budded low, as directed for the con- 
cave dwarfs, and the firft fhoots to 
be alio fhortened in fpring, when a 
year oid ; to procuie a further fupply 
of feveral flcut lewer fhoots. I form 
the firft courfe of branches at about a 
foot or fifteen inches from the ground, 
and that, inftead of forming the heart 
of the tree concave, like the former 
kind of dwarf, train the centre fhoot 
up to the middle for a Hem, and fur- 
fer it to branch out at every twelve or 
fifteen inches, as it advances in height, 
training eacli fet of branches a little 
horizontally. 

Thus the tree may be formed into 
feveral fets of branches, one above a- 
siother, which fhould bs fo ordered, 



that the !ower-mofl fet be extended 
the widefl, and the next fet immedi- 
ately above it be a little fhorter, the 
next fhorter than that, and fo on to 
the uppermost fet, wlieieby the tree 
will aliume a beautiful conic form ; 
and by obferving nearly the f.^me rules 
of gene; al pruning, as laid down for 
the concave dwarfs, they will produce 
plenty of fine Fi wit. 

Horizontal Dwarfs. — Thefe are graf- 
ted within about twelve or eighteen 
inches to two feet of the ground, and 
their fii ft fhoots fhortened, as fbi :he 
concave and conical Dwarfs, to pro- 
mote a regular fupply of branches 2t 
that diltance from the bottom ; which, 
when about a yard long, are to be 
trained in a horizontal pofition, fuf- 
fering no upright to advance in the 
middle, but train the whole pi 
flat or horizontal on every fide o: the 
ftem, continuing them, as they ad- 
vance in length, always in the fame 
pofnion, and thus they will fpread 
themfelves circularly many feet each 
way, and produce abundance of fruit. 

The fame mode of pruning is to be 
here obferved as directed ior the con- 
cave dwarfs, fo that a repetition here 
would be fupefluous. 

DYERS WEED, {Lateola Refida,] 
Weld, Wold. This plant is culti- 
vated for the ufe cf the dyers. It 
communicates a beautiful yellow co- 
lour to l Iks, woollens, &c. 

The root, which is compofed of a 
few ligneous fibres, does not pierce 
deep ; from this root it puts forth 
leaves about four inches long, and 
half an inch broad, of a lively green, 
feft to the touch, which fpread circu- 
larly near the ground, with fome gen- 
tle wavings at their edges, but cbtufe 
at their points. Its ftem, which rifes 
from amidit thefe haves, to the height 
of three feet, or even more, if the foii 
and culture be very good, often bran- 
ches out, and is garnifhed with leaves 
like thofe below, though fmaller in 
proportion as they approach the flow- 
ers, which grow in long loofe fpikes 
at the end of the branches or ftem. 
Thefe flowers, which appear at the 
latter end of June, are each of them 
compofed of three fmail irregular pe- 
tals, cf a green ifh yellow, to which 
fucceed a globular berry of the fame 
colour, terminated by three points, 
and ip. y/hich are inclofed fmall brown 
fpherical 



DYE 



DYE 



fpherical feeds. Thefe feeds ripen In 
ber. The plant becomes en- 
tirely yellow when it is dry. and the 
whole of it. but efpecially the berry, 
is ufed in dying. The flenderelt weld, 
and particularly if it inclines to a ruf- 
fet colour, is accounted the belt : that 
which is larger, and of a dull green, 
is much lefa efieemed. 

This plant grows naturally along 
the tides of highways, upon dry banks, 
and on old walls, in many parts of 
England, France, Spain, and other 
count ies wh»re the winters are not 
veiy fevere ; but the cultivated fort is 
far preferable to the wild, hoth for the 
quantity and the goodnefs of the co- 
loui which it yields. It will thrive 
tolerably on aimoft any foil, provided 
It be dry and warm ; but the richer 
the land i upon which it is fown, the 
greater will be the produce; and in 
proportion to the care with which it is 
cultivated, the more vigorous and fit 
for dying wi.'l it be. 

The ground fhoult! be in fine tilth 
at the time of fowingit,and unlefs it be 
very poor indeed, it will not require 
dung. The feed fhould be that of the 
preceding year ; for if it be older, great 
part of it will not grow. Both Mr. 
Worlidge and M. Du Hamel are of o- 
pinion, that weld feed fhould, on ac- 
count of its fmallnefs, for it is but lit- 
tle bigger than that of purflane, be 
mixed with afhes. buck-wheat, oats, 
or fome other fimilar ingredient, in 
order the better to avoid fowing it too 
thick ; for the plants of weld thrive 
heft when they arc about fix inches a- 
funder. Some fow it on barley or 
eats, after they have been fown and 
harrowed, this requiring onl^J bufh 
to be drawn over it ; for it fhould not 
lie covered deep. A gallon of weld- 
feed, thus ufed in the broad-call way, 
will be fufficient to fow an acre of 
land. It will not grow much during 
the firftfummer, when it is thusfown ; 
bvit it will thrive apace after the corn 
is taken off. Mr. Miiler, however, 
'luftly cbferves, that the belt way is 
to fow it without any other crop. 

The beginning or middle of Auguft 
is a proper feafon for fowing weld in 
this country. The only care that it 
requires whilft growing, is to keep it 
tlear of weeds which might choak it, 
or at lead weaken its growth. 
The French, in general, fow their 



weld in March, and pull it up in July 
or Auguft of the enfuing year, when 
part ot its feeds are ripe, and the plant 
is ftill of a greenifh yellow : they then 
dry it, and threlh it upon cloths, to 
get the ripelt of the feed, and after 
this they tie the (talks up in bundles, 
and fell them to the dyers. But Mr. 
Miller rightly judges, that the beft 
time to pull the weld for ufe is when 
it begins to flower, that is to fay, a- 
bout the latter end of June, becaufe, 
like all other vegetable?, it is then in 
its greateft vigour, and confequently 
befl: fuited to yield the greateft quan- 
tity of dye. For a produce of new 
feeds, it is much better to fow a fmall 
piece of land on purpofe, or to fet 
apart for this end a fuitable portion of 
the field of which the plants are in- 
tended for ufe, rather than let the 
whole (land too long, that is to fay, 
till part of the feeds are ripe ; becaufe, 
by letting the plants (land till then, 
their quality is injured far beyond the 
value of the feeds that are got from 
them (the berries being the part which 
yields the fineft dye) ; and befides, the 
feeds thus obtained will of courfe be a 
mixture ot ripe and half-ripe ones, on 
the growing of which there cannot be 
a due reliance. The common way of 
drying thefe plants, is to fet them up- 
right in fmall handfulls in the field,, 
and when they are dried, to tie them 
up in bundles. They muff, alfo be 
houfed dry ; and care muff be taken 
to (tack them fo clofely, that there 
may be room for the air to pafs be- 
tween them, to prevent their fermen- 
ting. 

The plants which are intended for 
feed mould be pulled as foon as their 
feeds are ripe, and then be dried and 
beaten out for ufe ; for if this is de- 
ferred, or if they are let ltand too long 
the feeds will fcatter. 

The method of cultivating this plant 
at OilTel, in Normandy, where great 
quantities of it are raifed for exporta- 
tion fo Holland, independent of the 
confumption in France, is thus related 
by M. Dambourney, in the Memoirs 
of the Royal Society of Agriculture at 
Rouen. 

" In the month of July, juft after 
the kidney-beans then in bloom have 
been hoed for the fecond time, and 
earthed up, efpecially if there be an 
appearance of approaching rain, weld- 
feed 



£ A R 



IAR 



feed Is fown among them, very thin, 
as equally as poffible. Careful huf- 
bandmen bury this feed, by dragging 
over it a fmall bufh of thorns. Whilft 
the weld rifes, the beans ripen and are 
gathered; after which the ground re- 
mains, of courfe, planted with weld 
only. This is hoed about Michaelmas, 
then left in that condition during the 
winter ; and in the enfuing month of 
March, when the danger of froils is 
judged to be over, it is hoed again, to 
extirpate fuch weeds as may have 
come up in the mean time. Towards 
the end of June, in this fecond year, 
when the weld has done bloffoming, 
when its berries form, and when the 
plant begins to turn yellow, advantage 
is taken of the firft fair day after a 
rainy one to pull it up. Two men 
will then pull up as much of it in one 
day, as four men can when the ground 
is dry and hard. It is carried off in 
large bundles ; but thefe are untied be- 
fore the weld is laid up for keeping, 
and the plants are fpread out and fet 
upright againlt walls or hedges well 
expofed to the fun, the heat of which 
completes their drying in two days. 
They are then laid upon a cloth, to 
prevent the lofs of the feed, which 
drops very eafi'y out of the now open 
capfules j and finally, after being tied 
up again in bundles, weighing about 
thirty pounds apiece, they are piled up 
loofely in a barn, or other well-co- 
vered place, where they complete their 
ripening, and generally fhrink to lefs 
than half of their former weight. 

" Weld raifed on rich ground is apt 
to be greafy, and too full of ftalks ; 
tnat which grows in fandy places is of 
a better quality, and has only one main 



ftem ; but In return, the produce here 
is much lefs than in the former cafe. 

" As foon as the weld has been pul- 
led, fheep are turned in upon the land, 
to eat up the grafs it may have pro- 
duced : it is then ploughed once j and 
after another ploughing at the end of 
October, it is fowed with wheat, or 
great rye, without ufing any other 
comport or dung. If the land is light 
and deftined for fpring corn, turnips 
may be fown upon the firft ploughing 
alter the weld ; for they will have time 
to grow big enough to be pulled before 
the ploughing for oats or fmall rye, 
which laft crops it will be proper to 
help with a little fliavings or rafping* 
of horn. 

" If it be intended to rair'e weld af- 
ter peafe, the ground fhould be plow 
ed, and the feed fown very thin ; to 
do which the more effectually, this 
feed, like that of turnips, fhould be 
taken up only in pinches between the 
middle finger and the thumb, and the 
fore finger fhould remain extended, the 
better to help its fpreading when it is 
dropped. The feed fhould be fown in 
rows fufficiently diftant for the plants 
to have full room to grow ; and the 
beft way is to leave an alley after every 
third row. When fown it is harrowed 
in, and the only farther caie that the 
weld requires, is to keep the plants 
free from weeds, by hoeing the ground 
at Michaelmas and in March, as before 
directed. 

'• The weld which is fown after 
peafe, does not injure the land it grows 
on ; and therefore, in this cafe, as af- 
ter the kidney-beans, wheat may be 
fown in October without any previous 
manure." 



xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx 



IXXXXXXXXXXXXX 



E. 



EA R. The fpike of corn which have a rough fubacrid tafte; they are 

contains the feed. recommended as aftringents, butprac- 

TcEar. To plough, to till. tice pays no regard to them. 

Jeivs Ear, \ Auricula fuda A This _ . nTXT/ -, ,,, ,. ..... 

. J , ' . L , T j vu EARING. Ploughing, tilling. 

is a low creeping plant, covered with a °' & 

a kind of blackifh hairs. It grows EARTH. The ground, confifling 

wild in dry pafture grounds, and flow- of different modifications, as clay, fand, • , />j 

ers in June and July, The leaves loam, &c. See Clay, Sand, Loam, //i^^^M- 

Vol. I. CLq ^ f Ja£»n 



EAR 



EAR 



Japan Earth, [Terra Japonica.] 
This 13 very improperly called an earth, 
being an infpiffated juice of the fruit 
of a kind of palm-tree, brought from 
the Eaft Indies. It is of a dark reddifh 
colour, and when pure, totally dif- 
folves in water, and nearly in fpirits of 
wine. It is a mild aftringent, and 
frequently employed as fuch in alvine 
fluxes, uterine profluvia, in laxity and 
debility of the vifcera in general, and 
in coughs proceeding from thin acrid 
defiuxions. Its tafte is more agree- 
able than that of moft other fubitances 
of this clafs ; chewed for fome time, it 
leaves a kind of fweetifhnefs in the 
mouth. 

EARTH-BOARD. That part of 
the plough which turns over the earth. 
EARTH-BANKS, In husbandry, 
&c. are a very common fence about 
London, and in feveral other parts of 
England. Where flones are not to be 
had cheap, thefe are to be preferred to 
all other fences, both for foundnefs 
and duration. 

The belt manner of making them is 
this : dig up fome turf in a grafTy 
place, a fpit deep, or nearly the breadth 
cf the fpade, and about four or five 
inches thick ; lay thefe turves, with the 
j rafs outward, even by a line on one 
fide, and on the backfide of thefe lay 
another row of turf, having a foot 
fpace of fclid ground on the outfide, 
to prevent the bank from flipping in, 
if it fhould be any ways faulty. On 
the outfide of this make a ditch, or 
elfe let the fides be lowered both ways 
with a flope two feet deep, and there 
will be no paiiure loft by the fence, 
becaufe it will bear grafs on both fides. 
The earth that is dug out of the 
ditches, or from the flope, mult be 
thrown in between the two rows of 
turf, till the middle is made level with 
the reft ; then lay on two more rows 
of turf in the fame manner ; and with 
more of the earth fill up and make le- 
vel as before. Let this method be 
continued till the bank is raifed four 
feet high, or more, if neceffary, only 
obferving, that the higher it is to be 
carried, the wider the foundation muft 
be made. As the bank is carried up, 
the fides muft not be raifed perpendi- 
cular, but doping inward both ways, 
lb that at the top it may be about two 
feet and a half wide. This fort of 
fence, when made with lefs care, and 



faced with clay, is left naked, and 
ferves very well in fome places ; but 
when it is thus managed with the 
turf, the joinings of the feveral pieces 
are hid in a little time, by the growth 
of the marly part of the turf on each 
fide, and it makes a beautiful fence, 
of as green and pleafant a colour as 
the reft of the field. 

EARTHING, In gardening, figni- 
fies covering the roots of plants with 
earth, as is pradtifed with afparagus, 
or banking againft their fides with 
earth, in order to blanch their leaves, 
as is done with cellery, &c. or draw- 
ing the earth up to the plants with a 
hoe, as is pradtifed with peafe, beans, 
cabbages, &c. 

EARTH-NUT, [Bunlum.'] Pig-nut. 
This plant grows naturally in moift 
paftures, and in woods in many parts 
of England ; of this there is a variety, 
fuppofed to be larger than that which 
grows naturally here. It hath a tu- 
berous folid root, which lies deep in 
the ground. The leaves are finely cut, 
and lie near the ground. The (talk 
rifes a foot and a half high, which is 
round, channelled, and folid $ the 
lower part being naked, but above, 
where it branches out, there is one 
leaf placed below every branch. The 
flowers are white, and fhaped like 
thofe of other umbelliferous plants ; 
the feeds are fmall, oblong, and when 
ripe are channelled. 

The roots of this fort are frequently 
dug up, and, by the poorer fort of 
people, are eaten raw, having much 
refemblance in tafte to the cbefnut, 
from whence it had the title of Bulbo- 
caltanum. 

EARTH-PEA. See Everlast- 
ing Pea. 

African Earth-Pea, or Earth- 
Nut, [AraMs.~\ This plant is found 
in the European fettlements of Ame- 
rica ; but many perfons who have re- 
fided in that country affirm, they were 
originally brought by the flaves from 
Africa. 

It multiplies very faft in a warm 
country, but being impatient of cold, 
it cannot be propagated in the open 
air in England ; therefore, whoever 
has an inclination to cultivate this 
plant, mult plant the feeds in a hot- 
bed in the fpring of the year, and 
when the weather proves warm, they 
may be expofed to the open air by de- 
grees. 



E D G 



E D G 



grees. The branches of this plant trail 
upon the ground, and the flowers, 
(which are yellow) are produced Tin- 
gle upon long foot-ftalks; and as foon 
as the flower begins to decay, the ger- 
men is thruft under ground, where the 
pod is formed and ripened, fo that 
unlefs the ground is opened they ne- 
ver appear. The roots of this plant 
are annual, but the nuts or feeds fuf- 
ficiently flock the ground in a warm 
country, where they are not very care- 
fully taken up. 

EARTH-FLAX. A kind of fibrous 
foflil. 

EARTH-WORM. A worm bred 
In the ground, t&c £t/t. 0t///<u}J. 

EAVES. The edges of the roof 
that over-hang the walls of a building. 

EBONY, [Ebenus.] This plant 
grows naturally in Crete, and fome of 
the lflands of the Archipelago. It 
bears flower of the pea kind in June 
and July, and the feeds ripen in Au- 
guft. It requires to be kept in pots 
to be removed to the green-houfe in 
winter. It is propagated by feeds fown 
in Autumn or Spring. 

ECUR1E. A pla*-e covered for the 
houring or lodging of horfes ; a liable. 

EDDER. Thefmali fhoots of oak, 
hazle, afh, &c. ufed for binding the 
tops of hedges. 

To E de» a Hedge, To bind the 
7 top together. 

-C EDDISH. Gra f s growing in the 

£fz„ ftubble after the corn is cut. 
yf EDGE. The extremity of a border j 
" thertiarp or thin part of a blade. 

EDGINGS. Thefe are ranges of 
very fmall dwarfifh ever-green plants, 
a-, box, thrift, &c clofely planted along 
the edge of borders or beds, ferving 
both for ufe and ornament. 

Edgings are particularly neceffary to 
the edges of fuch borders or beds as 
immediately verge walks or alleys of 
gravel, fand, (hells, or other loofe ma- 
terials ; and are ufeful to form and 
preferve a boundary diftin&ion betwixt 
the borders and walks, and to preferve 
the earth of the borders from being 
forced out upon the walks or alleys, 
and the foil of the walks from the bor- 
ders ; both of which would otherwife 
be the cafe, lefs or more, every time 
of doing the neceffary work, and at 
every hard fhower of rain. Edgings 
are therefore particularly neceffary in 



flower-gardens, and to the borders 
immediately verging principal walks, 
to maintain uniformity and -neatnefs } 
and, confidered as ornamental, that 
being ever-green, and if planted in a 
clofe neat range along the edge of the 
border, all of an equal width, not 
more than two inches broad, and one 
or two high, and always kept within 
the compafs of about three inches in 
width and height, without gaps and 
irregularities, but all the way clofe, 
and even at the fides and top, they 
have a pretty effect, whether box or 
thrift, &c. and as fome forts of plants 
proper to be employed for Edgings, 
are of the flowery tribe, fuch as thrift, 
dairies, pinks, &c. they, befides the 
property of being ever-green, are very 
ornamental in their flowers, which, 
of each fort, are numerous, and conti- 
nue fix weeks or two months in great 
beauty. 

But the bell edging in the world is 
the dwarf fhrubby box, it being the 
moft effectual, mofl eafily kept in or- 
der, and the moft durable, retains its 
leaves and full verdure at all feafons, 
profpers in all foils and fituations, is 
never hurt by any weather, and will 
endure many years, always clofe and 
regular, with the culture of fheai ing or 
clipping once or twice every funimer 
at top and fides. 

The next to box for Edgings, is 
thrift, which alfo grows very clofe, 
low, and in verdure ail the year, and 
flowers beautifully two months in 
fummer, but being rather apt to fpread 
foon out of bounds, requires to be re- 
duced, by cutting in considerably on 
each fide, or by replanting it afrefh 
every two or three years ; and its ge- 
neral culture as an edging is, to trim 
it a little with garden-fhears on each 
fide and top every fummer, as foon as 
done flowering, cutting off all the wi- 
thered flower-ftalks, performing it al- 
ways in moift weather. 

Daifies, pinks, catchfly, and feveral 
other low herbaceous evergreen flow- 
ery perennials, are alfo fometimes em- 
ployed for edgings, which have a pret- 
ty effect when in flower ; but as in one 
year they fpread greatly out of com- 
pafs as edgings, fhould be taken up 
and replanted every fpring or autumn, 
but more particularly the daifies ; and 
the others, if they ftand longer than 

Qjj a »ne 



E D G 



ELD 



ene year, fliould be cut in on each 
fide annually after flowering, to pre- 
serve uniformity. 

Sometimes fome forts of dwarf bu- 
fhy annuals are fowed for fummer edg- 
ings in fmall gardens, fuch as the 
dwarf Virginia flock, heart's-eafe, or 
-viola tricolor, candy tuft, and feveral 
other low bu(hy annual flowers ; but 
the former of them is mod fuitable for 
an edging, as it grows low, bufhy, and 
does not ramble, is very flowery, and 
continues long in bloom. 

Several forts of fhrubby aromatics 
are alfo ufed for edgings, as thyme, fa- 
vory, hyifop, fage, lavender, and rue, 
all of which are ever-greens, and may 



more than three or four inches wide. 

EDGE-GROWN, come up uneven, 
not ripening all together. 

EDGE-TOOL. A tool made fharp 
to cut with. 

EFT. A fmall kind of lizard, living 
both by land and water. 

EGG. The produce of feathered 
animals. 

EGG-PLANT, [Mclongena.] See 
Mad Apple. 

EGLANTINE, [Refa Eglantine, ,] 
Sweet Briar. See Rose. 

EIGNE. Unalienable, entailed. 

ELDER, [Sambucus.~\ This genus 
confifts of hardy deciduous trees and 
fhrubs,and herbaceous perennials, pro- 



be kept low by clofe fhearing, but then per for fome ufeful purpofes in gar- 



they become woody, flubbed, and na- 
ked ; but thefe are alfo fometimes 
planted as edgings in kitchen gardens, 
for ceconomical purpofes. 

Parfley alfo forms a good ever-green 
edging, for the edges of the quarters 
and borders of kitchen gardens ; and 
if the true curled fort is fowed, it will 
be very ornamental as well as pro- 
fitable. 



dening, and fordiverfifying hardy plan- 
tations : alfo for domeltic and medical 
ufes in their leaves, flowers, and fruit ; 
are all garnifhed with large winged 
leaves and numerous fmall rofaceous 
flowers, moftly in cymofe umbrels to- 
wards the ends of the branches, fuc- 
ceeded by large bunches of black and 
other coloured berries in autumn. 
The kinds are, i. Common Black 



As to the method of planting or Elder; 2, Red-berried Elder ; 3. Dwarf 

forming edgings ; if box, the plants Elder ; 4. American Elder, 

are generally planted in fmall perpen- The firft has three varieties, viz. 

dicular trenches, placing them clofe with white and green berries, and with 

together, as at once to form a com- variegated leaves, 

plete edging. Thrift, daifies, pinks, The Dwarf Elder grows wild in fome 

&c. are commonly planted by dibble, countries in England. The eye diftin- 

at about two or three inches diltance guifhes little difference betwixt it and 

in the line, though, to form a compact the alder-tree, except in the fize ; the 

edging at once, they may be planted alder being a pretty large tree, and the 

fo clofe as to touch each other; pink dwarf elder only a herb tree of four 

edgings may alfo be formed by fowing feet high. The leaves, root, and bark, 

the feed in a drill along the edge, half have a naufeous, fharp, bitter taite, 

an inch deep, fo fufifer the plants to and a kind of acrid ungrateful fmell: 



remain. Annual flower edgings are 
alfo formed in the fame manner. 
Thyme, favory, and hyffop edgings, 
may alfo either be formed by fowing 
the feed, or by plants or flips ; fage 
and lavender, chiefly by planting young 
flips ; and rue the fame, or by feed. 
All edgings, the fhrubby kinds in 



they are all ftrong cathartics, and as 
fuch are recommended in dropfies, and 
other cafes, where medicines of that 
kind are indicated. The bark of the 
root is faid to be ftrongeft, the leaves 
the weakeft ; but they are all too 
churlifh medicines for general ufe : 
they fometimes evacuate violently up- 



particular, fhould be neatly fhorn or wards, almoft always naufeate the 

clipped with garden-fheers, at top and ftomach, and occafion great uneafinefs 

fides every year in fummer, and fome of the bowels. By boiling they be- 

ferts require it twice in that time, to come (like the other draftics) milder, 

preferve them perfectly neat, fuch as and more fafe in operation. Fernelius 

box, and mod other fhrubby kinds. relates, that by long coftion they en- 

Never fuffer box edgings to exceed tirely lofe their purgative virtue. The 

two or three inches in width, nor a- berries of this plant are likewife pur- 

bove three or four high ; and thrift gative, but lefs virulent than the other 

•jnd the other herbaceous edging to get parts. A rob prepared from them, 

may 



E L E 



ELM 



way be given to the quantity of an 
ounce as a cathartic, and in fmaller 
ones as an aperient, and deobftruent 
in chronic diforders. In this laft in- 
tention it is faid to be frequently ufed 
in Switzerland, in the dofe of a dram. 

They are eafily propagated, by plant- 
ing the cuttings any time from Sep- 
tember to March. 

Marfh Elder, Guelder-Rofe. A 
fpecies of the Viburnum, or Way- 
faring- tree. See Gelder-Rose. 

Spanifli Elder, [Saururus.] Lizard's 
tail. This is preferved by botanifts for 
the fake of variety, but as it has no 
beauty, it is very rarely admitted into 
other gardens; it is propagated by its 
creeping root, which may be parted 
either in autumn, foon after the ltalks 
decay, or in the fpring before the 
roots begin to fhoot ; it loves a moiil 
foil, and a fhady fituation. 

ELECAMPANE, [Enu/a Campar.a, 
Inula,] This is a very large downy 
plant, fometimes found wild in moift 
rich foils. The root, efpecially when 
dry, has an agreeable aromatic fmell ; 
its tafte, on nrfl chewing, is gluti- 
nous, and as it were, fomewhat ran- 
cid ; in a little time it difcovers an a- 
romatic bitternefs, which by degrees 
becomes confiderably acrid and pun- 
gent. Elecampane root poffeffes the 
general virtues of alexipharmacs. It 
is principally recommended for pro- 
moting expectoration in humoural 
afthmas and coughs : liberally taken 
it is faid to excite urine, and loofen 
the belly. In fome parts of Germany, 
large quantities of this root are can- 
died, and ufed as a ftomachic, for 
ftrengthening the tone of the vifcera 
in general, and for atenuating tenaci- 
ous juices. Spirituous liquors extract 
its virtues in greater perfection than 
watery ones : the former fcarce elevate 
any thing in diftillation : with the lat- 
ter an effential oil arifes, which con- 
cretes into white flakes : this poffefies 
at firft the flavour of the Elecampane, 
but is very apt to lofe it in keeping. 
An extradt made with water, (a pre- 
paration now kept in the (hops) pof- 
feffes the bitternefs and pungency of 
the root, but in lefs degree than one 
made with fpirit. 

It is propagated either by feeds or 
off-fets. There are many fpecies cul- 
tivated in the gardens, for the fake of 



variety, brought from different parts 
of Europe and America. 

ELEMI. A refin brought from the 
Spanifh Welt-Indies, and fometimes 
from the Eaft-Indies, in long roundifh 
cakes, generally [wrapped up in flag 
leaves. The beft fort is foftifh, fome- 
what tranfparent, of a pale whitifh 
yellow colour, inclining a little to 
greenifh, of a firong, not unplcafant 
fmell. It almoft totally diflblves in 
pure fpirit, and fends over fome part 
of its fragrance along with this men- 
flruum in difiillation. Diftilled with 
water, it yields a confiderahle quan- 
tity of a pale-coloured, thin, fragrant 
effential oil. This refin gives name to 
one of the officinal unguents, and is at 
prefent fcarce any otherways made 
ufe of; though it is certainly prefer- 
able for internal purpofes. to iome 
others which are held in greater 
efteem. 

ELEUTKERIA. SccCascarilla 

ELM, [U/mus.] The fpecies are; 
i. The fmall-leaved, or true Engiifh 
Elm; 2. the Engiifh Elm, with large 
rough leaves ; 3. the French Elm; 4. 
the rough-barked Dutch Elm ; 5. the 
Cornifh Elm ; 6. the red Elm from 
Canada; 7. the Scots Elm in England, 
called the Witch Elm ; 8. the Engiifh 
Elm, with ftriped leaves. 

The five forts firft-mentioned, are 
propagated by layers or fuckers, the 
former of which is by much the better 
method, as the trees, fo raifed, will 
in their firft ftages, advance more- in 
growth, and make handfomer plants 
than thofe taken from the roots of old 
trees ; neither will they fo foon, or in 
fo great a number produce fuckers, 
which retards the growth of the tree. 

Moft of the forts of Elms fend up 
many fuckers frcm the roots, but moft 
plentifully in the Engiifh and Dutch 
forts ; and which, if taken up care- 
fully with the roots, they will torm 
good plants ; therefore in autumn, 
winter, or fpring, having recourfe to 
any large trees that fend up plenty of 
fuckers, let thefe be digged up, with as 
many fibres as polfible; and cf which, 
chufing only fuch as are well rooted, 
trim them for planting, by cutting 
them down at top to fix or eight in- 
ches ; lay them in fmall trenches or 
drills, five or fix inches deep, one row 
in each, half a fool apart, and the 
drills 



END 



END 



drills about half a yard afunder; giv- 
ing waterings in fpring and fummer ; 
and here let them remain two years, 
to form good roots, then transplant 
them in wide nurfery rows. 

All the forts of Elms may be eafily 
raifed by layers, previoufly preparing 
a quantity of ftools, to produce moots, 
fituated near the ground, for laying. 
The proper feafon for laying them is 
autumn or winter, performing it by 
flit-laying ; and as foon as all are lay- 
ed, and moulded in, top every layer 
with a knife, down to one eye above 
ground, and the work is finifhed. 

Thus thofe layers will readily take 
root in fpring and fummer following, 
and fhoot at top probably two or three 
feet long by the next autumn, when 
they fhould be detached from the 
ftools, and planted in nurfery rows, a 
yard afunder, and half a yard diftant 
in the rows ; and when they begin to 
fhoot, train them with one leading 
fhoot only. 

ELSHIN. A pail, kit, or bucket. 

EMASCULATE, To deprive of 
the male argans ; to geld. 

EMBROCATION. A medicine to 
bathe any difeafed part with. 

EMBRYO. The offspring yet un- 
finiflied in the womb. 

EMERY. A fpecies of iron ore, 
employed in cleaning and poliihing 
fteel. 

EMPALEMENT. See Flower. 

ENCHANTER'S NIGHTSHADE, 
iCirctea.] This plant has a creeping 
root, and rifes to the height of eigh- 
teen inches, and grows naturally in 
woods and hedges in England. Ano- 
ther fort has bei n brought from the 
Alps, but they are feldom kept in gar- 
dens except for variety. 

ENDEMIAL. Peculiar to a country. 

ENDIVE, [Cicborium.] Succory. The 
fpecies or varieties are ; r. Green cur- 
led Endive; 2. White curled Endive ; 
3. Broad leaved Endive. All the va- 
rieties may be confidered both as an- 
nuals and b/ennials. Confidered as 
annuals, that if fown early in fpring, 
or even any time before the beginning 
of June, the plants very commonly fly 
up to feed the fame fummer, in their 
minor or half-grown ftate, and perifh 
in autumn. As biennials, that if fown 
in June or July, the plants acquire 
^eiftdion in autumn, continue till the 



fpring following, then fhoot up ftalks 
for flower and feed, and foon after pe- 
rifh ; fo, at moft, they are never more 
than biennial. 

it is the inner leaves of all the va- 
rieties that are theufeful parts, which, 
when blanched white, to render them 
crifp and tender, and to reduce them 
from a naturally ftrong, to an agree- 
able bitter talte, are then fit for ufe. 

They are valued chiefly as principal 
furniture for autumn and winter fal- 
lads, and for fome culinary ufes ; and 
their principal feafon of perfection is 
from the latter end of Augufl until 
Chiiltmas, or longer, according to the 
temperature of thefeaftn ; though the 
curled kinds generally refill the froft 
of our ordinary winters, and remain 
in tolerable perfection till March or 
April. 

The propagation of each variety is 
by feed annually in an open fpot of 
ground, from which the plants are to 
be tranfplanted a foot diftance, in o- 
pen beds and borders, to remain to 
grow to full fize, when their leaves 
are to be tied together, to promote 
their blanching white. 

The principal feafon for fowing thefe 
feeds is from the beginning of June to 
the end of July ; and to have a regular 
fupply of plants, it is proper to per- 
form three different fowings, at about 
three weeks or a month's interval, ob- 
ferving, that if fown before the firft 
week in June, the plants are apt to 
run to feed the fame year, without ac- 
quiring perfection ; and, if fown later 
than July, they have not time enough 
to grow to any tolerable fize, before 
the approach of winter ; however, 
where the plants are required as early 
as poflible, you may perform an earlier 
fowing, but the earlieft fhould never 
be before the middle of May, and even 
that fowing is apt to fly up foon to 
feed, fo muft never depend on this 
fowing for a main crop ; therefore, 
for the general autumn, winter, and 
fpring crops, we advifethe firft fowing 
to be in the firft week in June, the 
next in the laft week of the fame 
month, and the third and laft about 
the fifteenth ortwentieth of July ; and 
each of thefe fowings will afford dif- 
ferent drawings or tranfplantings ; for 
it is eligible to make five or fix plan- 
tations at leaft, at different intervals, 
whereby 



END 



END 



whereby a regular fuccefficn of good 
Endive will be obtained from Auguft 
untill April. 

All the fowings fhould be perform- 
ed in an open expofure, and the richer 
the ground the better, which, after 
being dug, form into a bed or beds 
four feet wide ; direclly fow*the feed 
by broad-caft moderately thin, and 
tread and rake it in with a large rake. 

The plants will come up in ten or 
twelve days, when, if the weather is 
dry, give occafional waterings; keep 
them clear from weeds, and when they 
rife in clufters, thin them to two in- 
ches diftance, that they may not draw 
each other weak, and when about a 
month old, tranfplant the largeft in 
the following manner. 

When the plants of each fowing are 
from three to four or five inches high, 
they are then of a proper fize for 
planting out, which fhould be at once 
in the place where they are finally to 
remain ; they fhould be allowed a ipot 
of as rich ground as you can afford, 
and an open expofure is mofl eligible 
for the main crops that are planted out 
in June, July, and Auguft ; but for 
thofe intended principally for fpring 
fervice, which are planted out in Sep- 
tember, fhould be fet near the fhelter 
of a fouth wall or hedge. At each 
time of planting chufe moift weather, 
if poffible, and let the ground be then 
neatly dug one fpade deep ; d.vide it 
into four feet wide beds, and rake the 
furface fmooth ; then draw out a quan- 
tity of the ltouteft plants from the 
feed-bed, with their roots as entire as 
you can, and if the plants have run up 
with long leaves, trim their ftraggling 
tops all of equal length, then plant 
them by line and dibble four rows in 
each bed, at a foot diftance in the 
rows ; and that the plants may have 
the more room to fpread, fet them in 
the quincunx order, finifhing the work 
with a good watering, unlefs the wea- 
ther is very fhowery, when you may 
fpare ycurfelf that trouble, though, at 
any rate, a little water at planting fet- 
tles the earth clofe to their roots, and 
is of much advantage; if the weather 
is dry, the waterings mould be repeat- 
ed every other day for a week, or till 
the plants have taken root. 

In this manner it is advifeabje to 
make a frefh plantation every fort- 
night, from June to the middje of Sep- 



tember, by which practice yon will 
obtain a regular fucceffion of Endive, 
in due perfection, from Auguft till the 
following fprir.g, proper either for fa- 
mily fervice, or for market. 

When there is a necelfity of plant- 
ing any out in very dry weather, it is 
proper to draw flat (hallow drills a 
foot diftance 5 fo fet the plants therein 
a foot afunder, that when water is gi- 
ven, the drills will detain it about the 
plants, and the earth will retain a 
moiftnefs longer than the level ground. 

As to the general culture of the 
different crops, keep each plantation 
clean from weeds, by hoeing between 
the plants carefully in dry weather ; 
and when the plants are nearly full 
grown, a quantity of the largeit fhould 
have their leaves tied up for blanch- 
ing, which is to be repeated in fuccef- 
five order, and the following is the 
directions. 

The great excellence in good En- 
dive is to have the inner parts of the 
plants finely whitened or blanched] 
without which they would be tough 
and difagreeably bitter ; the plants ©£ 
themfelves naturally incline to whife- 
nefs in the hearts, but this may be 
greatly promoted and improved by art, 
when the plants are arrived at full 
growth. Different methods are prac- 
tifed, fuch as tying the leaves of each 
plant up together, taking up the plants, 
and replanting them direclly, almoft 
up to their tops, in ridges of dry earth, 
laying boards or tiles fiat-ways on the 
plants ; but this latter is the moft un- 
natural and ineffectual of all methods, 
and the beft of all is the tying up the 
leaves, which in a fortnight will be 
blanched. The proper period to begin 
this work is, when the plants are 
nearly full grown ; that is, when they 
are fo much advanced, that the leaves 
of the different plants interfere, and 
their hearts are full and bufhy; but 
they are net all to be tied up at once, 
only a due fupply of the largeft and 
forwardeft plants once every ten or 
twelve days, according to the demand 
either for private ufe or market. Dry 
weather, ifpoflible, ought to be cho- 
fen for this work, and when the plants 
themfelves are alfo dry, then having 
fome ftrong brafs firings, or ofier 
twigs, gather all ths leaves of each 
plant up regularly, diverting them of 
damaged ones, and with thefe materi- 
als, 



ER V 



ESP 



als tie them clofe together a little above 
the middle, or within about three in- 
ches of the top, being careful not to 
bind them too ftraight. 

In fifteen or eighteen days, fome of 
the forwarded plants of each tying will 
be tolerably well blanched, but in a- 
bout three weeks they will be in excel- 
lent order. 

To blanch them in ridges of earth. 
This is fometimes practifed in winter, 
when there is danger of fevere froft let- 
ting in ; for by hmying the plants al- 
moft to their tops, they are more out 
of the power of froft. In November 
or December, or when you apprehend 
hard weather is approaching, let a 
warm-lying piece of light dry ground 
be trenched up in one or more fharp 
ridges, two or three feet wide at bot- 
tom, and near as much in height, and 
fide-ways to the fun, making the fides 
as deep as pofTible, that wet may run 
quickly off ; then, in a dry day, take 
up a quantity of your full-grown plants 
with their roots entire, divefting them 
of damaged leaves, and then gathering 
each plant clofe in your hand, place 
them horizontally in the funny fide of 
the ridge of earth almoft to their tops, 
and about fix or eight inches each way 
diftant, which is room enough, as it 
is only juft to blanch them ; here they 
will take root and blanch effectually, 
obferving, that when fevere frofty 
weather prevails, it would be of much 
advantage to cover the ridge with dry 
long litter, to fecure the plants, and 
prevent the earth from being frozen 
hard, that they may be readily taken 
up when wanted. 

In very fevere weather, it would alfo 
be of much advantage to beftow co- 
vering on fome of the beft plants in 
the full ground; and where there is 
only a few for family ufe, it may be 
eafily effected either by mats or dry 
long litter, being careful to remove the 
covering as foon as the weather alters. 
ENFEOFF. To invert with pofief- 
fions. 

ENFRANCHISE. To invert with 
the privilege of a citizen or freeman. 
EPIDEMIC, 1 Generally pre- 
EPIDEMICAL, J vailing ; affeaing 
great numbers ; univerfal. 

EPILEPSY. See Failing Ex il. 
EPIPHYLLOSPKERMOUS Plants. 
Plants which bear their feed on the 
hack part of their leaves* 



EQJJINOX. The exact time in 
which the fun enters the firft part of 
the figns Aries and Libra, in which 
our days and nights are equal ; this is 
twice a year, about the 2irt of March, 
and the 23d of September, called the 
vernal and autumnal Equinox. 

ERGOT. A fort of ftub, like a 
piece of foft horn, placed behind and 
below the partem joint. 

ERSH. The ftubblg after the corn 
is cut. i &£ <5%V7 - 

ERYNGO, [Eryngium,] Sea Holly, 
This is an hardy herbaceous flowering 
perennial, of which there are feveral 
(pedes. The common Sea Holly grow* 
plentifully on fome of our fandy and 
gravelly fhores ; the roots are flender 
and very long ; of a pleafant fweetifh 
taite, which on chewing them for 
fome time, is followed by a light de- 
gree of aromatic warmth and acrimo- 
ny. They are accounted aperient and 
diuretic, and have alfo been celebrated 
as aphrodifiac; their virtues however 
are too weak to admit them under the 
head of medicines. 

Stinking Ekyngo, [Eryngium Fteti- 
dumJ\ Fever-weed. This plant grows 
naturally in the Weft-Indies, where 
it is much ufed as a febrifuge, from 
whence the name of Fever- weed. The 
plant is biennial, but will not thrive 
in England in the open air. It is pro- 
pagated by feeds. 

ESCULENT. Eatable, fit for eating. 
ESCHALOTE, [Cepa Jfcalonica.] 
Shallot. A fpecies of onion much cul- 
tivated in gardens. 

Thefe plants are propagated by off- 
fets from the roots, and planting them 
in a light foil ; for though they will 
grow in almoft any ground, they will 
increafe moll plentifully there. 

The belt time for fetting is toward 
the end of January. They muft be 
taken up as foon as their leaves begin 
to wither ; for they will rot if left 
long after in the ground. - ,> 

ESCALLION. Scallion. The fca- » -'c f& 
lion, or efcallion, is a fort of onion 
which never forms any bulbs at the 
roots, and is chiefly ufed in the fpring 
for green onions, before the other forts 
fown in July are big enough ; but this 
fort of onion, how much foever in ufe 
formerly, is now fo fcarce as to be 
known to few people, and' is rarely to 
be met with. The gardeners near Lon- 
doa fubftitute another fort for this, 
which 



ESP 



ESP 



which are thofe onions which decay fruit hereby exhibits itfelf to great ad- 
and fprout in ihe houfe ; thefe they vantage, and being low, and the bran- 
plant in a bed early in the fpring, ches fixed, is not liable to be blown 
which in a fhort time will grow large down by wind. 

enough for ufe, when they draw them An Efpalier has this advantage over 
up, and after pulling off all the outer a wall tn.e, that it has liberty to form 
coat of the root, they tie them up branches or fruit fpurs on both fides, 
in bunches, and fell them in the mar- which in the wall-tree cannot be ef- 
ket for fcallions. fecled but on one. 

The true fcailion is eafily propaga- The forts of fruit ufually employed 
ted by parting the roots, either in to form Efpaliers, are principally ap- 
fpring or autumn ; but the latter fea- pies, pears, and plumbs ; but feveral 
fon is preferable, becaufe of their be- other forts may alfo be ufed to increafe 
ing rendered more fit for ufe in the thevarieties, as quinces, apricots, cher- 
fpring j thefe roots mould be planted ries, almonds, mulberries, vines, figs, 
three or four in a hole, at about fix filberts, &c. 

inches diftance every way, in beds or Obferve always, however, to con- 
borders three feet wide, which in a trive all thofe trees in the fame line or 
fhort time will multiply exceedingly, range, that are nearly of the fame 
and will grow in almoft any foil in growth, for the fake of uniformity, 
any fituation. They fhould be planted principally 

ESPARCET. Saintfoin. on thofe borders ferving as the imme- 

ESPALIERS. Ranges of dwarf diate outer boundary to the quarters 
fruit-trees, trained to a trillage of of the kitchen-garden, and immedi- 
wood-work in fuch order as to form ately verging the principal walls ; they 
a kind of hedge. may alfo be planted in pleafure- 

Efpaliers are commonly arranged in grounds, Sec. if thought convenient. 
a fingle row round the boundaries of The width of the borders may be a- 
the kitchen garden, there ferving a bout fix feet, and the line of Efpaliers 
double or treble purpofe, both profit- placed four feet at leaft, from the 
able, ufeful, and ornamental ; they outer edge, and nineteen or twenty 
prpduce plentifully of large fine fruit, diftart in the row, efpecially for ap- 
without taking up much room, or any ples,pedrs, and plumbs, though twen- 
jncommoding the ground, and being ty-five feet is not too much ; but the 
in a dole range, hedge-like, they won- trees planted at that diftance, taking 
derfully fhelter the efculent crops in a long time before they approach each 
the quarters ; and having borders im- other to fill the Lfpalitr, they appear 
mediately under them on each (ide, ftraggling and irregular, that few per- 
afford different afpefts for different fons plant them more than eighteen 
plants, as they fhall require at differ- or twenty feet afunder; if, however, 
ent feafons of the year ; as in the win- they are planted only fifteen or eigh- 
ter for fhelter, the fpring for forward- teen feet diftance, they will meet and 
nefs, and the fummer for fhade ; and form a clofe Efpalier fooner by forhe 
as to the ornament and variety, what years, and when they begin to inter- 
can be more delightful in fpring, in fere and incommode each other, the 
the excurfion of the walks, than the interfering branches of every other tree 
charming appearance the trees make may be gradually cut away annually 
when covered with their fnowy bloom, in winter, pruning, to give the inter- 
differing in themfelves in thofe of dif- mediate trees room to advance and 
ferent genera, fpecies, and varieties ; meet each other, and at laft the others 
in fummer, to fee the fruits of the dif- may be taken quite away, and the re- 
ferent forts advancing gradually toper- maining trees Handing at thirty or fix 
feclion j and in autumn, how pleafing and thirty feet diftance will have full 
to find the various kinds arrive fuc- fcope to fpread. 

ceffively at maturity ; and as the trees All trees intended for Efpaliers, that 
are arranged all of an equal height, are propagated by grafting and bud- 
not exceeding fix or feven feet, clofely ding, fhould be grafted or budded 
furnifhed with branches ranged at re- within fix inches of the ground, to 
gular dirtances one abeve another, procure lower branches to furnifh the; 
from the very ground upward, the Efpalier, quite from the bottom re- 

R r gularly 



SE S P 



ESP 



gularly upward ; and t>e firft fhoots 
from the graft or bud, fhould alfo in 
fpring, when a year old, he headed 
down within five or fix inches of die 
graft, to force out a fupply of five or 
fix more good fhoots at that part, for 
the reafon jufl mentioned; and vvlie- 
the trees are then in the nurfery, or 
-planted in the Efpalier, its fhoots or 
branches fo -obtained, fhould, the fame 
fummer or autumn, when eighteen in- 
ches or two feet or more long, be 
trained along as they advance to flakes 
placed for that purpofe, laying the 
fhoots to the right and left horizon- 
tally in the pofiticn proper to give 
them the firit neceffary form as Efpa- 
lier-trees ; if trees are raifed in nurfe- 
ries for fale, the above practice is eli- 
gible, whereby the trees are rendered 
more faleable, and their value encrea- 
fed ; and if the firft heading does not 
furnifli the fupply of lower branches 
required, you may praclife a fecond 
heading, either in whole, or only fome 
of the middle-moft fhoots, as you 
fhall judge neceffary. Afterwards they 
muft be trained all principally at full 
length. 

When the trees in the nurfery are 
from two to four or five years old 
from the grafting or budding, being 
furnifhed with fix, eight, ten, or more 
good branches near the bottom, pro- 
perly fituated for ranging two ways, 
according to the line of the Efpalier, 
they are then fit for planting out fi- 
nally for that purpofe, ohferving the 
distances as before- mentioned. If 
apples and pears upon dwarf flocks, 
fifteen or eighteen feet may be fuffici- 
ent ; but if upon free flocks, twenty- 
one feet at leaft is neceffary ; plumbs 
fhould alfo be planted eighteen feet 
diftant at leaft in the line; cherries, 
apricots, figs, mulberries, vines, &c. 
nover lefs than fifteen feet difiance, but 
if eighteen the better ; as foon as they 
are planted, place flakes, ranging the 
way of the row, and to which tie the 
branches with ofier twigs, thofe of 
each tree horizontally to the right and 
left, keeping an equal number on each 
fide, at fix or eight inches diftant, one 
above another, and at full length ; ex- 
cept a farther fupply of more bran- 
ches may be wanting, to furnifli the 
bottom and middle of the tree, then 
fhorteningis to be praclifed according 
to the rules before-mentioned, to ob- 



tain the proper fupply ; afterwards 
train all the branches at full length, 
till all thofe of each tree meet, and .11 
redundant fhoots more than the allot- 
ted horizontals are to he flifplaced. 

Another method of forming Efpa- 
liefs, fometimes pra<ftifed, \i alter ha- 
ving headed down the firft moors, and 
fuppofe the tree in confequem 
nilhes about three bottom fhoots, the 
two fide ones are trained horizi 
the way of the Efpalicrs, and the mid- 
one is trained upright ; if five fhoots, 
two mult go to each fide, and the 
middle one perpendicular : this per- 
pendicular flioot muli frill lit directed 
upwards, to furnifh more lateral fhoots 
for horizontals, which mull be trained 
horizontally to each fide, as above, 
ftill continuing your upright in the 
middle ; obferving however, if the up- 
right flioot fhould not throw out ho- 
rizontals low enough, it fhould be 
fhortened, whereby it will furnifli frefh 
fhoots at any defired height, two or 
four of which, according to the num- 
ber produced, are to be ufed for hori- 
zontals, and one ftill directed up the 
middle of a ftem, and fo continue in- 
creasing your number of horizontals 
annually, ranging from each fide of the 
ftem, at fix or eight inches, one above 
another, from bottom to top of the 
Efpalier. 

In planting Efpaliers, in refpeel to 
the treiliage for training the branches 
upon, you may either only place fct:r 
or fix common Hakes to each tree, in 
a line, juft to train the branches the 
firft tv.'o or three years, till the trees 
are fomewhat advanced ; then taking 
thefe away, form a regular trtillage- 
work ; or if you are anxious to pie- 
ferve uniformity, a general treiliage 
may be formed at once, at firft plant- 
ing of the trees. 

Thefe treillage-works, for the above 
purpofe, may be of different degrees 
of tafte for ufe and ornament, accord- 
ing to your fancy or convenience : the 
cheapeft, and the fooneft made, is that 
of ftraight flakes driven into the ground 
a foot difiance, and fawed level at 
tcp, five or fix feet high ; and flips of 
deal, or poles arranged along the top 
of the whole length, and fo train the 
branches of the trees along from flake - 
to flake. 

But for the fake of ornament, a re- 
gular frame or treiliage may be formed 

cf 



ESP 



ESP 



of fquare timbers, and, to have it more 
durable, the principal polls might be 
of oak, two or three inches fquai 
rails carried from poll to port, the firft 
about eighteen inches from the I 
one at top, and a third in the 
fjxice; then rhin fquare flips of la'thj 
or fmalj afhen poies, or the like, are 
fixed upright to the rails on the fide 
next the trees, a ifoot .-minder, and 
paint the whole with oii-coiour, to 
it more ornamental and ( 

To either of the above rreii 
work, the Efpalier-trees are to be trai- 
ned in a regular tnanher, bringing the 
lowem. s down horizontal- 

in eig t or ten inches of the 
ground, tying them to the uptfghts of 
tiie treillage ; the next courfe fix or 
tight inches ab'oVe thefe, in the fame 
pofition j t!ie fame of the next and 
every fucceeding courfe all the way 
up, preferving an equal number on, 
each fide, ranging exactly in the fame 
horizontal politico, and dillance from 
bottom to top, training them always 
along at full length, except there be a 
wane of wood in any part ; t'v h, to 
force out the fupply wanted, fhorten 
f me contiguous fhoots to fivo or fix 
inches, either the fame fummer it is 
produced in June, otherwlfe not till 
fpring following, and fo continue every 
year increafir.g the number of hori- 
zontals, and place them properly, till 
the trees are furnifhed with branches 
one above another, from the bottom to 
the top of the treillage. 

As to the general pruning of Efpa- 
Her-trees, obferve, that the branches 
are, for the genera) part, to be trained 
always at full length, for fhOrtenirig 
more than juft neceffary to procure an 
t :cafional fupply of wood, would not 
only produce a confufioti of brandies, 
but as the trees always produce their 
fruit upon fpurs, which, if the bran- 
ches are trained at full length, gene- 
rally firft form themfelves towards the 
upper part, ar.d gradually along the 
tides at each eye ; that by fhortening 
it would cut away the faid tirit fruit- 
ful parts, and from the lower eyes, 
that inilead of forming fpurs, force out 
flroncc unneeeiTary wood, and fcarce 
any fruit ; and this is the reafon we 
fee fo many ill-forrhed Efpalier-trees, 
many people thinking fhortening the 
fhoots is neceffary to Strengthen them 
as they call it, and hereby the tree 



throws out vaft quantities of wood 
every fummer, which they either then, 
or in winter or fpring pruning, cut 
out, generally leaving a ftump ot each 
fhoot about an inch or two long, and 
from every eye of thefe flumps, more 
ftrOng (hoots rife the year following, 
>ed oft" in the 
fame manner, and fo they continue 
from yearto.year, by which mean- (he 
tree is filled with large cluttering rag- 
ged fpurs, formed entirely of the flumps 
of fhoots : therefore, always keeping 
in mind to continue all the fhoots and 
branches principally at full length, and 
when neceffary to cut out any fupef- 
abundant wood, always take it off 
quite ciofe, never leaving any flump, 
and conftantly encourage the fruit- 
fours, which are natutal fhoots from 
about half an inch to one or two in 
length ; obfeivir.g however, when any 
of thefe aie worn out, or 'grown can- 
kery, or become very long, as to pro- 
ject considerably foreright, th/ey fhould 
be cut out clofe, to make room for 
thofe of better growth, 

Efpaliers fhould have two principal 
dreffings annually, i. e. fummer and 
winter pruning. 

In fummer the trees often produce 
numbers of fhoots more than ate wan- 
ted, or that can be trained in ; there- 
fore, keeping in mind the proper clif- 
tances and general pofition of the ne- 
ceffary branches to form each tree, 
begin early in June, and clear off all 
fuperfluities as they are produced, that 
is, all fore-right fhoots ilfuing from 
the front and back of the branches ; 
and thofe of very luxuriant growth, 
fhould always be difphc"'l,ri!" 
cutting them off clofe j not, however, 
reducing any of thofe fhoots produced 
immediately from the end of the bran- 
dies, which mull he left entire, to ex- 
tend the branch in length, and form a 
further fupply of fr it 
ther fhoots, howe\ nd well- 

placed, arifing from the fides of the 
horizontals, and that are evidently fu- 
perabundant, i. e n ire than what 
can be trained in, conftftent with the 
allotted diflances, and regular pofition 
of the genera! h lis, or bearing- 

branches, ffioul :ff ; ob- 

ferving howe. 

there a good fiicot towards the 
part of the branches, in the mofi va- 
cant fpaces, or where t ad 

Rra 



ESP 



ESP 



occur, training them up between at training between the principal ones, 

full length till winter pruning ; and if in different parts, where you fhall 

then not wanted, may be cut out ; for judge neceffary, without crowding, to 

it is neceffary always, at any rate, to bs coming forward gradually to a bear- 



leave fome as a referve till winter, in 
cafe of any unfcrefeen vacancy hap- 
pening. In the above manner go over 
the Efpalier-trees, of all forts, twice 
every fummer, a: lead, the firft time 
early in June as aforefaid, and again 
in July. In the firft dreffmg in June, 
which, if there are any vacancies want 
filling, you may pinch any contiguous 
ftrong young fhoot of the year, to three 
or four eyes, whereby it will fuinifh 
the like number of fhoots the fame 



ing (late, to fupply the place of fuch 
as are apparently in a decaying ftate, 
or but had bearers ; all other young 
flicots left in fummer, that are not 
wanted for the above purpofe, (h ou Id 
now be cut out clofe, obferving, as in 
the fummer pruning, that all fhoots 
arifing fingly, immediately from the 
ends of the horizontals, muft now alfo 
be left entire, that is, leaving only one 
to each branch as a leader, and to ex- 
tend the refpeclive branches in full 



feafon, which you may train into the length, to fill the extent of Efpalieral- 



vacant fpace. 

The above fummer dreffings are not 
only beneficial to the trees, but, clear- 
ing out ufelefs wood, admits the fun 
and air to effedt the growth and ripen- 
ing of the fruit. 



In performing the fummer dreffings, fides. 



lotted ; fothat every branch and fhoot 
fo referved for training in, muft, ex- 
cept in cafe of a vacancy, alio (till be 
continued along at full length, they 
will then naturally form fruit-fpurs at 
almClt every eye or bud all along their 



if you begin betimes, before the young 
wood becomes long and woody, all 
redundances may be rubbed off clofe 
by hand ; but if the fhoots are firft 
fuffered to be of confiderable length, 
or hardened, the knife mult I 
always rubbing or cutting clofe. 

Winter pruning. — This may bs per- 
formed any time from the fall of the 
leaf in Noven, larch; in this 



For the branches of apples, pears, 
plumbs, cherries, &c. always produce 
their fruit upon fpurs. which generally 
begin to form when the branches are 
two or three years old, provided the 
branches are left entire, but if fhort- 
ened, they never form properly. 

Having wintei - pruned the trees, 
you mult then proceed to frefh tie all 
the horizontals, old and new, in a neat 



pruning a general regulation is to be manner, to the treillage, ftill prefer- 



obferved, both to old and new bran- 
ches when neceffary, therefore examine 
firft the ftate of all the main horizon- 
tals, if any are decayed, or much can- 
kered, take them out, either to their 
origin, or to fome healthful young 
branch arifing fron i low the 

defect ; likewife an old naked'branch, 
not furnifhed with bearing fpurs, nor 



ving an equal number on each fide of 
every tree, and all at regular diftances 
of fix or eight inches, and their pofi- 
non fo much horizontal, as their ex- 
tremities may not be above fix or eight 
inches higher than the bottom parts, 
training every branch as Itraight as an 
arrow, clean from the bottom to the 
extremity, tying them neatly to each 



fupport- branches, that are, fhould alfo upright of the treillage. 

be cut out, where there arc large cluf- The belt material for tying the bran- 

tering ragged fpurs, formed by the re- ches of Efpaliers, is ofier, chufing the 

maining ftumps of fhortened fhoots, as fmall twigs of about eighteen inches, 

bef< 1 3 obferved, cut them aifo off clofe, or two feet long; which, if you have 

being careful to preferveall the natural none of your own growing, you may 

fruit-fpurs already defcribed. Exa- purchafe cheap enough at the bafket- 

mine alfo fuch young moots that were makers. The yellow ofier is the belt, 

trained up in the fummer dreffing, if it can be obtained, 

fuch of them that are well placed, and The mode of tying up is, put the 

towards the lower part of the main the twig around behind the treillage, 

branches, and are likely to be wanted keeping the biggeft end fa ft, bring the 

to fill any prefent or future vacancy, other end round the branch to meet it, 

are to be left and trained up regularly twifting it about the big end once or 

at full length; for it is neceffary ai- twice, clofe to the branch, and turn 

ways to have fome young branches in the point in betwixt that and the tying, 

draw 



E V E 



EVE 



tCS - 



draw it right, then cut both ends even, 
to about an inch ; in this manner every 
branch muft be tied to all the uprights 
of the treillage its length reaches. 

ESTRAY, in law, any. beaft, not 
wild, that is found within a lordfhip, 
and owned by no-body ; in which cafe, 
being cried according to law in the 
two next maiket towns adjacent, and 
not claimed in a year and a day by the 
owner, it becomes the property of the 
lord of the manor or liberty wherein 
it was found. 

ESTREAT, in law, a true copy, 
note, or duplicate of an original wri- 
ting or record, efpecially fines, amerce- 
ments, penalties, &c. fet down and 
impofed in the rolls of a court, to be 
levied by the bailiff, or other officer. 

ESTREPEMENT, in law, any fpoil 
made by tenants for life on any lands, 
fee. to the prejudice of the reverfioner. 
It is alfo taken to fignify the making 
barren land, by continual ploughing 
and fowing, and thereby drawing cut 
the heart of the ground without ma- 
nuring, or rather good hufbandry, by 
which means it is impaired. 

ETCH, the fame with Erfh. 

ETERNAL FLOWER, [G; 
um,~\ Goldy-locks. Mr. Miller rec- 
kons no lefs than eighteen fpecies of 
this plant, one of which is Caffidony, 
already mentioned. They are all her- 
baceous and fmall fhrubby flowering 
perennials, riling of different features, 
from fix or eight inches, to four or five 
feet ; adorned with white hoary lt-aves, 
and terminated by white compound 
flowers, which aie remarkable for pre- 
ferving their beauty for years after they 
are gathered. They begin to flower 
in June, and continue till the end of 
the fummer. They are propagated by 
flips or cuttings of their flioots. 

EVER-GREENS. All forts of trees, 
fhrnbs, and herbaceous plants, that 
retain their green leaves the year round, 
may be denominated Ever-greens, tho* 
it is mofb commonly underftood of 
trees and fhrubs, of which there are 
great numbers in our gardens and 
plantations, employed for ornament, 
variety, and as foreft-trees for timber, 
many of which are adapted to grow in 
any part of the habitable world ; and, 
in general, their leaves are harder and 
lefs fucculent than thefe of deciduous 
trees. They are not in the leaft influ- 
enced by the clemency or inclemency 



of feafons, but preferve them in con- 
ftant verdure through the year ; the 
old leave-- remaining a long time after 
the formation of the new ones, and 
do not drop them at any determinate 
time. 

Alany herbaceous perennials enjoy 
the fame privilege with the ever-green 
trees in retaining their leaves, and re- 
fift the feverities of winter j fome even 
can difpenfe with earth for fome con- 
fiderable time, fuch as the houfe- 
leeks, navel-worts, aloes, &c. being 
replete with juices, which the leaves 
imbibe from the humidity of the at- 
mofphere, fufiicient for effediing the 
purpofes of vegetation. 

Evergreen Ron yfuclle. See Ho- 
neysuckle. 

Evergreen Oak. See Oak. 
Evergreen Privet. See P r i v e t . 
Evergreen fio/f, See Rose. 
Evergreen Thorn. \Pyracantha ,] 
This 'plant grows naturally in the 
hedges in the South of France and 
Italy, and flowers come from the fide 
of the branches in large umbels 5 they 
are fmaller than thofe-of the common 
hawthorn, and of a dirty white ; thefe 
are fucceeded by roundifh red berries, 
which ripen in the winter, and being 
mixed with the ever -green leaves, 
make a pretty appearance. It is pro- 
pagated by feeds or layers. 

EVERLASTING PEA, [Lathyrus. ] 
i bidding vctclu ;, fwe ;l pea. ' 1 he 
fpecies are, 1. Broad leaved perennial 
Lathyrus, or everlaiting pea ; 2. Odo- 
riferous, or fweef rl'centgd pea ; 3. Tan- 
gier pea ; 4. Crimfon grafs vetch ; and 
from thefe are produced a numerous 
variety. 

All thefe fpecies of Lathyrus are 
heibaceous, and of hardy growth 5 
their, ilalKi Ion;, flender" and furnifh- 
ed with cirrhi, or clafpers, for the 
purpofe cf climbing and fupporting 
themfeives; the firft fort is pirennial, 
or everlafting in root, but annual in 
ind the other are annual in ftalk 
and toot, rifing from feed in fprine, 
and wholly periih in autumn. They ali 
merit cultuie as flowering plants, but 
the perennial fort is the mod valuable. 
both foT its durability in root, and 
long continuance in bloom ; the an- 
nual fcrts, however, flower very or- 
namentally, and by three or four dif- 
ferent fowings, may be made to flower 
all fummer and autumn. 

Thw 



E V I 



r u p 



The flowers of all the fpecies are 
papilionaceous, or butterfly-fhaped, 
having four irregular petals, that is, a 
vexilium, or ftandard, two fide wings, 
and a keel at bottom, fucceeded by a 
long compreffed pod, fiiled with pea ■ 
like feeds. 

Failing EVIL, Epilepfy. In this 
difeafe the horfe falls down fuddenly. 
His teeth and his eyes become fixed, 
but his head and body is fhook and ex- 
tremely agitated ; froth bubbles out 
of his mouth, his flanks heave and la- 
bour, and forr.etimes there is an invo- 
luntary excretion of the dung and 
urine 5 all which arife from an invo- 
luntary and diforderly motion of the 
blood and animal fpirits, ruffiing with 
greater impetuofity into a mufcle of 
one fide, than that which is its anta- 
gonist, fo as to occafion a vellication 
and contraflion of that mufcle ; and 
becaufe there is not an equal quantity 
of blood and fpirits detached into the 
oppofite mufcle, therefore tfiat mem- 
ber cannot be extended as well as con- 
tracted, but drawn one way, and the 
part affecled will continue immove- 
able, excepting in thofe violent fhocks 
and agitations. 

The caufes may be, firft, whatever 
wafles and exhaufts the body, or any 
of its parts, as the taking away too 
much blood, violent purging or hard 
labour, long ficknefs ; fecondly, what- 
ever fills the body too much, and gives 
origin to obftru&ions in the blood- 
veffeis or brings a debility and weak- 
nefs into the ftomach ; and, lafily, 
wounds, or whatever elfe caufes pain 
and inflammation. 

As to the cure, it is the fame with 
that of an apoplexy or vertigo ; only 
this generaT rule is to be oblerved, 
that when it proceeds from lownefs, 
evacuations by blooding and purging 
are to be laid afide, excepting where 
fome circumftances may make a mo- 
derate ufe of them. 

Sleeping Ev i l, Lethargy. The fleep- 
ing evil in horfes, is the fame that we 
call the lethargy in our own fpecies, 
and it will be as fatal to them as it is 
to ourfelves, if not remedied in time. 
The caufe is their eating a great quan- 
tity of coarfe food, and having lefs 
work than ufual. 

It fhews itfelf by their being flug- 
gifli, and continually deeping or do- 



zing. The remedy is the following 
ball :— 

Pound in a marble mortar a handful 
of the plant called VVali-pepper, or 
(harp Stone-crop. It is a common 
creeping plant upon walls and bears 
flowers. . Pm: to this a very 
little white v. ine, and fqueeze out the 
juice. Grind in a mortar four ounces 
of elecampane pcwdel 1 , and one dram 
of powder of pell itory of Spain ; add 
the juice to thefe, and then put in a 
quarter of a pound of Caftile foap, 
work and beat all well toe-ether; and 
then put in liquorice powder by a lit- 
tle at a time, to bring it to a foft pafte. 
Keep this in a pot, and every morn- 
ing, before he has taken any food, give 
him a piece of it as big as a large wal- 
nut, greafed. Let him drink milk and 
water, warmed, after it, and keep him 
ftirring. 

CotfEx'il, See Coltevil. 

Poll Evil. The Pell Evil is an im- 
pofthume which arifes on the poll of 
the horfe, and,' for the nioft part; is 
caufed by the fretting Qf a new halter 
or collar, S:c. At firft it requires no 
other method of cure than what is 
common to other boils and inflamed 
tumours, viz. by ripening and bring- 
ing it to matter ; but fometimes it de- 
generates to a finuous ulcer, though 
that be generally owing to want < f 
(kill. 

There is a fmall finus under t!:e 
noil-bone, where the matter is apt to 
lodge, unlefs care be taken to keep the 
part firm with bandage; but, inftead 
of that, the farriers generally thruft in 
a long tent, which raife's the ffefh, and 
opens a way into the finus ; and by 
this means, an ulcer is created where 
there needs be none ; all, therefore, 
that is further neceffary on this head, 
is to caution the pracTitioner againft 
fuch ill methods; and if the turner 
has a very laige cavity within it, it is 
much better to lay it femewhat open, 
than to thruft foreign fubftances inco 
it; and, if it acquires an ulcerous 
difpofition, it muft be treated as fuch. 

Hungry Evil, Ravenous appetite. 
See Foul-Feeding. 

EUPHORBIUM. A gummy refin 
exuding from a large oriental fhrub. 
It is brought to us immediately from 
Barbary, in drops of an irregular form ; 
fome of which, upon Being broken, 

are 



EU? 



EXE 



are found to contain little 
fmall twigSj powers, and other vege- 
mat'ter ; others are hollow, with- 
out any thing in their cavity ; the 
tears in general are of a pale yellow 
colour externally, fomewhat white 
within fide; they eafily break between 
the fingers. Lightly applied to the 
tongue, they affect it with 
biting tafte ; and, upon being held for 
fome time in the mouth, prove vehe- 
mently acrimonious, inflaming and 
exulcerating the fauces, & 
bium is extremely trouble* oxtis to pul- 
verize ; the finer part of 
which flies off, affecting the head in a 
violent manner. The acrimony is fo 
great, as to render it absolutely unfit 
for any internal ufe. Several ce i 
have been connived to abate its viru- 
lence, but the be -rn are not to 
be trufted to ; and as '.here feems to be 
no real occahon for it, unlefs t 
external purpofes, we think, with 
Hoffman and others, that it ought to 
be expunged from the catalogue of in- 
ternal medicines. 

Eufhorbium, \Euphorl\a.^\ Spurge. 
Turning thorny plant. An herbaceous 
fhrubby fucculent plant, of which are 
reckoned up no lefs than thirty-two 
fpecies by Mr. Miller. They are tender 
exotics, and require the affiftance of 
the itove and green-houf". All the 
fpecies of Euphorbia are very fuccu- 
lent in (talks and blanches, abounding 
with a milky juice, fo extremely acrid, 
as to burn linen, or blifler the hand or 
any part of the fkin, where applied ; 
and the branches being (o fucculent, 
cuttings thereof, if preferved dry, may 
be kept out of the ground feveral 
months if neceffary, and then planted, 
will readily emit roots and grow. 

They are all natives of the hot parts 
of Africa, Alia, and America, and re- 
tained here in our ftoves as plants of 
curiofity, for the great Angularity of 
their ftrange growth. 

In their culture here, they muft be 
kept always in pots of very light fundy 
or rubbifhy poor foil, and placed upon 
the fhelves in the hot hi 

They are all eafily propagated by 
cuttings of their branches any time in 
fummer; take off the cuttings with a 
knife, from three to five or fix inches 
long; lay them on a dry fhelf till the 
wound is dried up and fkinned over, 
as for other fucculent cutting-- ; when 



this is effected, plant them fingly in 
fmall pots of dry fandy foil, and plunge 
them in the baik-bed, give a litjle wa- 
ter once or twice a week, and they will 
foon be well rooted, and may then be 
placed upon the iheives in any part of 
■ve. 

They muft be allowed larger pots 
occasionally, once every year or two, 
but never put them into any too large ; 
waterings will be neceffary now and 
then, which in winter is fufficicnt ones 
a wepk, and not ofterser than twice in 
fpring, and about two or three times a 
week in the heat of fummer. 

EUPHRASY. Eyebright, 

EWE. The female or the fheep. 
Mr. Ellis, in his Treadle on Sheep, has 
given us the following fecret, which 
he pofuively afferts will make ewes 
t^ke ram at any time of the year. 

" Separate, fays he, fix or more of 
your ewes from the flock, and give to 
each half a pint of ltrong ale, or the 
fame quantity of good October, mel- 
low, lilky beer, and not that which is 
fharp by flalenefs 5 and for giving it 
in the eallelt and fafeit manner, you 
may run the ale or beer through a 

npel into the ewe's mouth; and 
when the ewes have been all thus fer- 
t them into a proper place, 
not too large, nor too narrow, that 
the ewes may be confined with one or 
more rams, that have been before a 
little better kept than ordinary for this 
purpofe. Out of fix ewes, that I have 
to take ram in this manner, 
not one of the d proving with 

limb. By the above method, and the 
.e of a fufficicnt number of 
an hundred ewes may be thus 
doled witii ftrong drink, and if rams 
enough are provided, they will all pre- 
sently take ram." 

EXERCISE. A proper agitation 
given to an animal body, in order to 
produce falutary effects. 

ife duly given to horfes that 
are wcl! fed, is not only the belt means 
of all others to prevent ill habits, but 
to preferve them in a perfedt (lace of 
health ; for exercif^ converts the food 
intogood and wholefome neurifhment; 
it promotes the circulation of the 
blood, and all the glandular difebar- 
ges. fo as greatly to enliven the body, 
and to make way for frefh fupplies of 
aliment. It invigorates the fpirits, 
gives Strength and firmnefs to the 
mufcles 



EXE 



EXE 



mufcles and fmews, and enables a 
horfe to endure labour. And when 
exercife is given abroad in an open 
air, it adds greatly to a horn's vigour, 
and prevents any difpofnion to putrid 
cohesions in the blood, which a clofe 
Stagnated air often produces, and this 
efpecially when hoiles are young, and 
their appetites firong ; for, indeed, 
when Lories grow old, their appetites 
are more moderate, and reft is often- 
times more agreeable to (hem than la- 
bour. Nevertheless, exercife is, more 
or lefs, abfclutely neceffary for all 
horfes, young or old : for we may ob- 
serve, even old horfes, when they lie 
much ftill, though they are not apt, 
as young horfes, to turn directly fick, 
and fall into fevers ; yet as their blood 
grows poor, and languid with age, 
they become fubjeft to many infirmi- 
ties, as fwellings of their flieath and 
bellies, with other dropfical fymptoms, 
and fometimes to obftinate corruptions 
on their lkins, which exercife in a 
proper degree often prevents. 

Korfes, by their natural activity, 
are every way fuited to exercife and 
labour, and in that refpecr are more 
ufeful than any other of the brute crea- 
tures ; only it depends on us how they 
are to be treated, both for their own 
prefervntioh, and our benefit ; and 
their food ought always to be propor- 
tioned according to their exercife. But 
the time and manner of a horfe*s ex- 
ercife is to be regarded ; for if he hap- 
pens either to be worked at an unfea- 
fonable time, or beyond his Strength, 
it will be more injurious to him than 
if he had not been worked at all. 
Therefore this general caution is al- 
ways needful, viz. never to ride a horfe 
hard, cr put him upon any 
exercife when lie hath been newly ltd, 
2nd has his belly full of meat or wa- 
ter; but fhould be moved out at fir ft 
gently, and he will naturally mend his 
'-are, as his food and water begins to 
affuage, when Ins rider may urge him 
on to further fpeed, as his bufinefs 
may reo^ire. 

We need not tell any one, thai 

a hprfe is hot with riding, <■:. 

" iher Sharp laborious exercife, he fhould 

be cooled by degrees, this being known 

to alrnoii every ftab!e-boy from cuf- 

tom and ufe, though it is often ne- 

d through ignorance or idleness, 

ie with littie judgment. A;': I, 



therefore, when a man has travelled 
hard upon a journey, or when horfes 
have been driven hard in a coach or 
chaife, it is not fufficient, after they 
come to their bating place, or to the 
end of their day's journey, to walk 
them about in hand for half an hour, 
or more, which is ufually done, but 
their p^ce fhbuld alfo be flackened for 
a mils or two before they come in, and 
after that, fhould alfo be walked fome 
time in hand, that they may cool gra- 
dually before they are brought into the 
ftable, with a thin cloth laid over 
each, if they have been ufed to it. 
This is the fafeft way for young horfes, 
that have been kept well, and have 
worked but little. And when fuch 
horfes come late to the end of t . . 
day's journey, or when the weather is 
fo bad, that they cannot be walked 
about in hand, they fhould then be 
rubbed all over their bodies and limbs, 
till they are quite cool, without taking 
off their hat rtefs and ("addles, and when 
cloathed ; for when all the fmalleft 
blood-veffels are replete and full, as 
they mufl unavoidably be in all Strong 
and efpecially in Jong continued ex- 
ercife, and the blood extremely heat- 
ed, and running like a torrent, and 
fudden chill or damp will produce 
Stoppages and obftmc"tions, where the 
veffels are tiie molt minute and Small, 
or wherever there is the greateft weak- 
nefs and relaxation, fometimes in- 
wardly in the iungs, fometimes in the 
liver and kidneys, and fometimes in 
the ftomach and guts, and other mem- 
branous parts; and this is ufually fol- 
lowed with inward pain and inflam- 
mation, cr with great dulnefs and 
heavinefs, which, in the end, often 
produce many untoward diforders ; 
©r if the limbs happen to be weak and 
relaxed, the blood and juices will foon 
drop down and ftagnate there, fo as 
to produce fwtllings, and fometimes 
ulcerations, that are troublefome e- 
nough to remove, efpecially in thofe 
that have been little accuitomed to 
fuch kind of labour; for habit and 
ufe, in continued exercife, alters the 
cafe very much, becaufe that ftrength- 
ens and invigorates the nerves and fi- 
news, as we obferve in fome hackney 
or job horfes, which are fo feafoned to 
their work, that fcarce any thing can 
hurt them. Indeed, Some of the job- 
horfes, that we fee endure fo much 
labour, 



EXP 



EYE 



labour, are naturally ftrong and. very afpecls, thefe may be planted with 
hardy, and have at firft been carefully fuch forts of fruits as do not require (o 



managed by their owners, who are not 
able to bear the lofs of cattle, as gen- 
tlemen or men of fortune ; and, there- 
fore, we fee them generally both be- 
gin and end their work with great 
coolnefs, and when they chance to 
meet with horfes that they find un- 
able to go through their hard work, 
they ufually make their bufinefs only 
a mere play, that they may not lofe 
their flefh, until they can difpofe of 
them to the beft advantage. Another 
neceffary caution for the prefervation 



much heat to ripen them ; and where- 
ever there are north afpecled walls, 
they are only fit for baking pears or 
plumbs, morello cherries for prefer* 
ving ; or fome duke cherries may be 
thus continued longer in the feafon, as 
there is a month difference between 
the ripening on one fide of the wall 
and on the other. 

EXTRAPAROCHIAL, out of any 
parifh ; privileged or exempt from the 
duties of a parifh. 

EXUVIyE. Caft-fkins; caft-fhells; 



of our horfes is, never to feed them too whatever is thrown off by animals or 

foon after they have been heated with vegetables. 

exercife. ■ EYE. The organ of fight in an 

EXOTIC. Foreign ; not produced animal body, or that which reprefents 

in our own country. obje&s to the mind. 

EXPERIMENT. Trial. The goodnefs Or badnefs of the eyes 

EXPOSURE. The fuuation or a- in horfes, is a thing wherein the beft 

fpeft of a garden or wall, with refpedl judges are fometimes miftaken; for 

to the fun and winds ; it is therefore molt people regard the cleamefs and 

as various as the points of the com- tranfparency of the eye, which indeed 



pafs, being either direct, as eaft, weft, 
north, or fouth, or declining, as fouth- 
eaft, fouth-weif, &c. A garden Ho- 
ping to the fouth is faid to have a fouth 
expofure or afpeel, or a wall with 
trees facing the eaft is faid to have an 
eaft expofure; thefouth-eaft, orfouth- 
fouth-eaft points, are generally rec- 
koned the beft expofures for gardens, 



ought to be considered ; but it is woith 
obferving, that horfes, before they are 
fix years old, have not that tranfpa- 
rency in their eyes which they arrive 
at afterwards : becaufe, while they are 
young and growing, their juices are 
vifcid and balfamic; fo that their eyes 
look thicker and clearer, in proportion 
at, their blood and juices happen to be 



by reafon they will enjoy the benefit of more or lefs in a good ftate. The 



the morning fun, and be lefs expofed 
to the injuries of the weft and fouth- 
weft winds, which in this climate are 
the mort violent ; the next beft afpecS 
is the fouth, particularly if the land is 
moift, but if it be of a dry nature, its 
produft is very apt to be burnt up in 
hot fummers, though it extremely well 
fuits winter crops. With refpect to 



fame may be obferved in all horfes that 
have colds, when the veflels of the 
eyes are full ; the eyes at that time 
look thick, and fometimes inflamed, 
and a blow on the eye, or a bite, will 
have the fame effect, when there is not 
the leaft danger of blindnefs. 

It is not, therefore, always the clear- 
nefs of the eye that denotes its good- 



walls, we would give the preference, to nefs, but a man is always to form his 
the fouth or fouth-weft expofure for judgment from other indications, par- 
tender fruits ; for although the eaflern ticularly from the form and manner of 
afpect receives the invigorating rays of the eye, which includes not only the 
the fun in the morning, yet the tender body of the eye, but the eye-lids, eye- 
bloffoms are very liable to be deftroyed brows, and ail the parts belonging to 



by the dry eafterly winds, which ge- 
nerally prevail at the time the trees are 
in flower ; therefore, a wall with trees 
inclining a little to theweftward of the 
fouth hath this advantage, that the 
bloffoms receive but little damage from 
the frofts, which melt before the fun 



it. Many good eyed horfes have a hea- 
vinefs in their countenance, with a 
lowering brow, yet great numbers of 
this afpeft go blind with cataracts 
when they are about feven years old, or 
between feven and eight, or fometimes 
later. Thefe are the molt fufpicious, 



comes to fhine on them, and fall off where there is a bunch or fullnefs be- 
like dew, without doing much harm ; tween the upper eye-lid and the eye- 
however, as there will be contrary brow, with a fullnefs round the under 

S f eve- 



EYE 



EYE 



eye-lid ; fo that the eye appears as if it 
was inviron'd in a ring. Such horfes are 
often flefhy about the head and jaws, 
which, upon every cold, or rather flight 
accident, expofes them to defluxions 
in their eyes. 

When the eye is extremely flat, or 
funk within its orbit, it is always a 
bad fign, even though there be no de- 
fluxions or humour upon it. A fmall 
pig-eye is none of the belt, nor a large 
gogling eye. The one often perifhes 
for want of rjourifhment, occafioned 
by fome defeat in the nerves or the 
arteries that fupply it with blood ; the 
other by being too much expofed to 
accidents, and by having too great fup- 
pliesof nourifhment. 

That eye is almoit always weak 
which is of a longifh oval figure, efpe- 
cially where the two corners are nar- 
row, like the fhape of an almond. 
When the coat or membrane, that rifes 
from the under part of the eye hap- 
pens to be large and thick, fo as to 
prefs the eye-ball, and the caruncle or 
kernel on the inward corner next the 
nofe is fpungy and moift, though there 
is fometimes a remedy for this defect, 
yet fuch horfes in the end generally go 
blind. 

When the eyes are bad, the mufcles 
or movers of the eyes are generally 
weak j fo if the eye looks dead and 
lifelefs, the belt way of trial is to hold 
up the horfe's head in the fame man- 
ner as when a drench is to be given, 
which will draw the eye upward ; and 
if it remains there fixed and immove- 
able, or has a languid motion, it 
is a pretty fure fign the eye is bad. 
And this trial will, for the molt part, 
hold good whether the eye be moilt 
or dry. 

Seme regard the colour of the eye, 
which, however, is different according 
to the difference of colour in horfes ; 
and indeed we are fo far to regard the 
colour, that if the iris or circle that 
furrounds the pupil or fight of the 
eye be diftindt, and of a pale variegated 
cinnamon colour, it always denotes a 
good eye. For the iris is always molt 
diftincl, where the humours of the eyes 
are melt clear and pellucid ; and thofe 
horfes have the belt eyes, which in co- 
lour refemble the eyes of a fheep or 
goat ; but few horfes arrive to that 
perfection of colour and tranfparency, 
till they are at leaft fix years old or 



upwards. On the other hand, if the 
iris or circle round the pupil be of a 
dark muddy colour, and does not ap- 
pear diftindt and variegated, till one 
approaches very near the eye, and if 
the narrow fky-coloured verge, which 
we obferve more or lefs in moft horfes 
on the outfide of the iiis, happens to 
be of a reilky hue, it is no good fign. 
Neverthelefs, wall-eyed horfes have for 
the moft part good eyes. 

Some, in examining the eyes, have 
a regard to the colour of the horfe, 
which we take to be no fure way of 
judging ; for as theie are good horfes 
of all colours, fo there are good-eyed 
horfes of all colours. The grey, efpe- 
cially the pigeon or dove-coloured grey, 
are the moft fufpected ; alfo the iron- 
grey, the dun, Sec. But we think we 
may fay from experience, that what- 
ever colour is the moft common a- 
mong the horfes, fo as to exceed in 
number, abounds moft with bad eyes j 
and we have obferved as many bad- 
eyed horfes among the black coach 
breed as any other. 

Moft people, in examining a horfe's 
eyes, lead him under a gate-way, or 
fome fhade, that they may fee perfectly 
the colour and tranfparency of the eye ; 
but the belt way is to obferve his 
countenance when he comes firft out of 
a dark ftable into a ftrong light; for 
if he has any weaknefs in his eyes, 
he will wrinkle his brow, and look 
upward to receive more light ; and if 
the pupil at the fame time be large, it 
is a bad fign ; and therefore the beft 
way is to look to a horfe's eyes firft in 
the fhade, to obferve the dimenfions of 
the pupil, and if that leffens upon his 
coming out into a ftrong light, it is 
almoft an infallible fign that the eye 
is good. 

Some fufpedt all horfes that ftartle to 
have bad eyes ; indeed many bad-eyed 
horfes are apt to ltartle : but a horfe 
that ftarts and looks upwards, lifting 
his feet high when he moves, as if 
afraid to touch the ground, fuch is 
more likely to have bad eyes than one 
that ftartles ; for many horfes ftartle 
merely out of fear, and we imagine 
not a few from fome defect in vifion, 
viz. from feeing objects indiftindtly at 
fome diltance, ,in all which cafes the 
eyes may be ftrong and durable, though 
many fancy them to be weak. But if 
a horfe frequently ftartles when no 
objefl 



F A L 



FAN 



objeft is before him that might caufe 
him to ftartle, we may then fufpe&his 
eyes to be but indifferent. 

Upon the whole, that eye is gene- 
nerally good where the eye-lids are 
thin, where the outward coat or tuni- 
cle of the eye is alfo thin and delicate, 
where the caruncle next the nofe is 
fmall and dry, where the eye is tranf- 
parent and fprightly, when a horfe has 
a bold refolute look, and takes notice 
of objecl-s without fear. On the other 
hand, when a hoife moves his ears 
backwards and forwards, and feems 
furprifed at every noife or motion of 
the hand ; when he raifes his feet high, 
is uncertain in his walk or l\ep, and 
unequal in his goings ; when his eyes 
appear full and fwoln with a fkihy 
circle round them, or when they are 
funk or fiat, or of alongifh oval figure ; 
when the outer coat is thick, and co- 
vers a great part of the eye-ball, and 
the glands or kernels of the eye are 
fpungy and moift, all thefe denote the 
badnefs of the eyes, and are often the 
forerunners of blindnefs. 

Eye »/ « Tree. A fmall pointed 



knot to which the leaves adhere, and 
from which the moots or fprigs fpring 
forth. 

Eye. Among gardeners, implies 
the fmall bud or fhoot inferted into a 
tree. 

EYEBRIGHT, {Euphrafia.} This 
is a very low -plant, growing wild in 
moi/t fields. It has for fome time been 
celebrated as an ophthalmic, both ta- 
ken internally, and applied externally, 
Hildanus fays, he has known old men 
of feventy, who had loft their fight, 
recover it again by the ufe of this 
herb. Later practitioners, however, 
have not been fo happy as to obferve 
any fuch good effedts from it. At 
prefent it is totally and juflly difre- 
garded. 

EYEWORT. Eyebright. 

EYE-WATER. Water to cure dis- 
orders in the eyes. 

For watery and inflamed eyes, the 
following is a good prefcription after 
bleeding and purging : 

Take of white vitriol half an ounce, 
water four pints, boil it till the vitriol 
is diffolved, and then filtre the liquor. 



*..- , ' , S.*"s.'' , '*'.-" , v"'SiS , "'-.*-"*v'' , '-^-'*v*"»-.'*"*-.""^.'* 'v,.«- ••-,.••■-...-■ •^.••••-.••"'-.""■--•'"■••■•" v -""*-."'^.-'*'*-^" , -.'*"'-- , "*s" 1 ' , -.'"*v'"- 



*^//y <rfi&ao2-J /// 0/t//c/s?/i. «4Lz-IW/<?a^/<v' 



V 


• 1 


>. 


'*> 1 


A^ 


$v 1 


V> 


^"l 


^ 

++ 


< ! 




^ , 


V 


5. 1 


*- 


3 ; 


^ 




^ 


-W 


K 


£ 


N 


$ . 


. «5- ' 


V 


-} 


^ 




$ 



/// 

FABACEOUS. Of the nature of 
a bean. 

FALDAGE. This is a privilege 
which many Lords anciently retained 
to themfclves of fetting up fheep-folds 
or pens in any fields, without their 
manors, the better to manure them ; 
and this not only with their own, but 
with their tenants fheep, which is cal- 
led Sc&afaUa. This Faldage, in fome 
places, is called a Fold-courfe, on Free- 
fold. 

FALDFEE. Fee or compofition for 
faldage. 

FALLOW. Land ploughed and til- 
led, but not fown. This is abfolutely 
^ neceffary at fome times to be done, to 
"recover the exhaufted ftrength of the 
ground. Turnips, vetches, buckwheat, 
&-c. are fometimes fown on the fallow 
before a crop ; and are properly termed 
meliorating crops. Lands in a fallow 
want more or lefs ploughing, accord- 



ing to the foulnefs, never lefs than 
three, often five or fix times for tur- 
nips, or till the land be thoroughly 
clean and well broken. 

Fallow. A colour, a pale red or 
pale yellow. 

FALSE-QUARTER. A rift, crack, 
or chink, on the outride, but moft 
commonly on the iniide of an horfe's 
hoof, which is an unfound quarter, 
feeming like a piece put therein, and 
not all of one entire piece. It comes 
fometimes by ill-ihoeing and paring ; 
fometimes by gravelling, or a prick 
with a nail or ftub, which will make 
him halt, and waterifh blood will 
iffue out of the chink or rift. The beft 
method of cure is to turn the horfe to 
grafs. 

FAN. An inftrument, which by its 
motion, caufes wind, beimg ufeful in 
winnowing corn. Jcc *//&&& • 
FAN* 



F A 



FAR 



FANTOME CORN. Thin or light 
corn. 

FARCY. A diftemper to which 
horfes are too often fubjecl. It is a 
difeafe of the blood-veffels, generally 
following thecourfe of the veins, and, 
when inveterate, thickens their coat 
and integuments. 

At firft one or more fmall fwellings 
or round buds, like grapes or berries, 
fpring out over the veins, and are of- 
ten exquifitely painful to the touch ; 
in the beginning they are hard, but 
foon turn into foft blifters, which, 
when broke, difcharge an oily or bloo- 
dy ichor, and turn into very foul and 
ill-difpofed ulcers. In fome horfes it 
appears on the head only ; in fome on 
the external jugular; in others on the 
plate vein, and runs downwards on 
the infide of the fore-arm towards the 
knee, and very often upwards towards 
the brifket; in fome the Farcy fhews 
itfelf on the hind parts, about the paf- 
terns, and along the large veins on the 
infide of the thigh, rifing upwards into 
the groin, and towards the (heath ; 
and fometimes the Farcy makes its 
appearance on the flanks, and fpreads 
by degrees towards the lower belly, 
where it often becomes very trouble- 
fome. 

When the Farcy appears on the head 
only, it iseafily cured, efpecially when 
it is feated in the cheeks and forehead, 
the blood-veffels being here fmall ; but 
it is more difficult when it affects the 
lips, the noftrils, the eyes, and ker- 
nels under the jaws, and other foft 
and Ioofe parts, efpecially if the neck- 
vein becomes chorded. When it be- 
gins on the outfide of the fhoulder or 
hips, the cure is feldom difficult ; but 
when the Farcy arifes on the plate- 
vein, and that vein fwells much, and 
turns chorded, and the glands or ker- 
nels under the arm-pits are affected, it 
is hard to cure ; but more fo when the 
crural veins within-fide of the thigh 
are chorded, and befet with buds, 
which affecl the kernels of the groin, 
and the cavernous body of the yard. 
When the Farcy begins on the patterns 
or lower limbs, it often becomes very 
uncertain, unlefs a timely flop is put 
to it ; for the fwelling in thofe depen- 
dant parts grows fo exceffively large 
in fome conltitutions, and the limbs 
fo much disfigured thereby with foul 
fores and cailous ulcerations, that 



fuch a horfe is feldom fit for any thing 
afterwards, but the meaneft drudgery. 
But it is always a prcmifing fign, 
wherever the Farcy happens to be li- 
tuated, if it fpreads no farther. It is 
ufual to affecT: one fide at a time, but 
when it paffes to the other, it fhews 
great malignancy ; when it arifes on 
the fpines, it is then for the moft part 
dangerous, and is always more fo to 
horfes that are fat and full of blood, 
than to thofe that are in more mode- 
rate cafe. When the farcy is epidemi- 
cal, as fometimes happens, it rifes on 
feveral p.irts of the body at once, forms 
nalty foul ulcers, and makes a profufe 
running of greenifh bloody matter 
from both noftrils, and foon ends in a 
mifeiable rot. 

From this defcription of the Farcy, 
it will appear how greatly thofe may 
be difappointed, who depend on fome 
tingle fpecinc drink or ball for a cer- 
tain cure ; for the fymptoms are fome- 
times fo favourable, as eafily to be con- 
quered by a very fimple management; 
and when it arifes fuperficially upon 
the fmaller veffels, it will often go off, 
with moderate labour, without any 
other means than bleeding. Such in- 
ftances as thefe may eafily give a repu- 
tation to things of no great efficacy, 
and bring them into efteem ; but who- 
ever has acquired any true notion of 
the Farcy, will know, that this diftem- 
per is not to be'cp'nquered but by fuch 
things as are-fulfy adapted to the vari- 
ous fymptoms that occur in the differ- 
ent ftages of it. To avoid, therefore, 
the perplexity that arifes from the va- 
rious complications fo ufual in the 
Farcy, we fhall confiderit in its differ- 
ent ftates or degrees, viz. when it 
feizes only the fmaller veffels ; when 
the larger veins are chorded, and the 
feet, patterns, and flanks affected ; and 
laflly, when the Farcy, beginning on 
one fide only, breaks out on the other 
alfo, and affecls the whole body. 

When the Farcy makes its firft ap- 
pearance on the head, it rifes on the 
cheeks and temples, and looks like a 
net work, or fmall creeping twigs full 
of berries. Sometimes it inflames the 
eye, and fometimes little blifters or 
buds run along the fide of the nofe. It 
at ifes often on the outfide of the fhoul- 
der, running along the fmall veins with 
heat and inflammation ; and fome- 
times a few fmall buds appear near 

the 



FAR 



FAR 



the withers, and on the outfide of the 
hip. In all thefe appearances, the 
difeafe being fuperficial, and affecting 
only the fmaller velfels, is ea-fily con- 
quered by the following method, when 
taken in time ; for the fimpleft Farcy, 
if neglected, may degenerate into the 
worft fort. 

This diftemper then being of an in- 
flammatory nature, and in a particu- 
lar manner affecting the blood-veffels, 
mult neceflarily require large bleeding, 
particularly where the horfe happens 
to be fat and full of blood. This al- 
ways checks the beginning of a Farcy, 
but is of fmall fervice afterwards; and 
if a horfe is low in flefh, the lofs of 
too much blood fometimes proves in- 
jurious. After bleeding, let the horfe 
have four ounces of cream of tartar 
and lenitive electuary, which may be 
given every other day for a week, to 
cool the blood, and open the body ; 
and then give nitre, three ounces a 
day, for three weeks or a month, and 
anoint the buds and fwellings with the 
following ointment twice a day : 

Take ointment of elder four ounces, 
oil of turpentine two ounces, fu- 
gar of lead half an ounce, white 
vitriol powdered two drams ; mix 
together in a gally-pot. 

The buds fometimes by this method 
are difperfed, leaving only little bald 
fpots, which the hair foon covers a- 
gain. When they break and run, if 
the matter be thick and well digeffed, 
they will foon be well : but, in order 
to confirm the cure, and to difperfe 
fome little lumps, which often remain 
for fome time on the (kin without hair, 
give the liver of antimony for a month, 
two ounces a day for a fortnight, and 
then one a day for the other fortnight. 
By following this method, a Farcy, 
which affects only the fmall veffels, 
may be flopped in a week or ten days, 
and foon alter totally eradicated. 

When the Farcy affects the larger 
blood-veffels, the cure is more diffi- 
cult ; but let it always be attempted 
early; therefore, on the plate, thigh, 
or neck-veins appearingchorded, bleed 
immediately on the oppofite fide, and 
apply the following to the chorded 
vein : 

Take oil of turpentine in a pint 
bottle fix ounces, oil of vitriol 
three ounces 3 drop the oil of vi- 



triol into the oil of turpentine by 

a little at a time, otherwife the 

bottle will burlt ; when it has 

done fmoaking, drop in more oil 

of vitriol, and fo on till all is 

mixed. 

This mixture is one of the befi uni- 

verfals in a beginning Farcy ; but 

where it is feated in loofe flefhy parts, 

as the flanks or belly, equal parts of 

the oil of vitriol and turpentine are 

neceflary. 

Rub the parts firft with a woollen 
cloth, and then apply fome of the 
mixture over the buds, and wherever 
there is any fwelling, twice a day. 
Give the cooling phyfic every other 
day, and then three Ounces of nitre 
every day for fome time. This method 
muff be continued till the buds digeft, 
and the chord diflblves ; and when the 
fores run plentifully, the matter digefls 
well, and the lips and edges are no 
ways thick or cailous, you may expect 
a fpeedy recovery ; yet, to confirm the 
cure, and prevent a reiapfe, give the 
liver of antimony, or crude antimony, 
as before directed ; and to heal the 
fores and fmooth the lkin, drefs with 
bees-wax and oil. 

When the Farcy begins on the flanks, 
or towards the lower belly, it often 
takes its rife from a (ingle puncture of 
a (harp fpur. The pain and fmarting 
is onefure fign to diflinguifh the Farcy 
from common accidents. The (faring 
of the hair, which ftands up like a 
tuft all round the buds or blilters, 
and the matter that iffues from the 
buds, which is always purulent, and 
of a clammy greafy confidence, are 
other certain figns. After bathing 
with the mixture above-mentioned, 
till the ulcers are fmooth and healing, 
fhould the fwelling not fubfide, to 
prevent the fpreading of the buds, and 
to difperfe them, baihe with either of 
thefe mixtures as far as the centre of 
the belly ; and at the fame time give 
a ccurfe of antimcnials, as will pre- 
fcntly be prefcribed. 

Take fpirits of wine four ounces, 
oil of vitriol and turpentine, of 
each two ounces, white wine vi- 
negar or verjuice, fix ounces. 

Or the following : 

Take fpirits of wine rectified four 

ounces, camphire half an ounce, 

vinegar or verjuice fix ounces, 

white 



FAR 



FAR 



white vitriol, difiblved in four 
ounces of fpring water, one ounce, 
mixed together. 
In the lower limbs the Farcy lies 
fometirrjes concealed for a great while, 
and makes fo flow a progrtfs, that it 
is often miitaken for greafc, or for a 
blow or kick, and goes by the general 
appellation of a humour fettled there. 
In order to riiitinguifh the one from 
the other, we fhallobferve that a kick, 
or bruife, is generally attended with 
a. fudden fvvsUmg, or a contufed 
wound, which, for the molt part digeits 
e.uiiv ; the greafeis a!fj afmoorh fwel- 
ling that breaks out above the bending 
cf the part ems backwards; but the 
Farcy begins on the pattern-joint ufu- 
ally with one bud, and runa upwaras 
like a knotty crab-tree. 

Very fimple means have fometimes 
ftepped it, before it has begun to 
fpread ; a poultice with bran and ver- 
juice bound round the part, and re- 
newed once a day,\vi)loften alone fuc- 
ceed ; and if proud rlefh fliould arife, 
touch it with oil of vitriol, or aqua- 
fortis, an hour before you apply the 
poultice; for when the diftemper is lo- 
cal, as we fuppofe it here, it is to be 
conquered by outward applications. 
When the diftemper grows invete- 
rate, and refifts the above method, and 
the veffels continue chorded, Gibibn 
recommends the following mixture : 

Take linfeed oil half a pint; oil of 
turpentine and nitre, of each three 
ounces ; tincture of euphorbium 
and heliibore, of each two drams ; 
the fbldier's ointment, or oil of 
bays, two ounces; oil of origa- 
num, half an ounce : double aqua- 
fortis, half an ounce. After the 
ebullition is over, add two ounces 
of Barbadoes tar. 
Rub this into the chorded veins, and 
whet 1 ; there is a fwelling, once in two 
or three days; but if the orifices are 
choaked up with proud fleih, or the 
Ikin fo much thickened over the ulcers 
as to confine the matter, in either cafe 
ir is rxceffary to make an open paffage 
with a fmall hot iron, and deltroy the 
proud flefh, after which it may be kept 
down by touching with oil of vitriol, 
aquafortis, or butter of antimony. 
A falye may alfo be prepared v ah 
quickfilver and aqua-fortis, rubbing 
viv' (juamity of the former with e- 



nough of the latter, to the confidence 
of a liniment; fmear the ulcers with 
this whenever they appear foul, and 
you will find it preferable to molt 
other eating ingredients. 

Our farriers, after opening the buds, 
put in ufually a fmall quantity of cor- 
rofive fublimate orarfenic, which they 
call coring out the Farcy ; this may 
anfwer where the buds are few, and 
not fituattd near large blood-vcffels, 
joints, or tendons : others ufe Roman 
vitriol, or fublimate and vitriol, in 
equal quantities : but let it be remem- 
bered, that many ahoife lias beenpoi- 
fonsd by thefe medicines ignorantly 
ufed, and in too large quantities; 
which fhould be a caution to huntf- 
men not to fuffcr their hounds to feed 
on the carcafes of farcied hcrfes, as the 
greateft part of a pack have been poi- 
foned by th t means. 

We (hall now mention fome of the 
defperate methods, and more violent 
kinds of medicines given by fome in- 
ternally: thus, from four to eight oun- 
ces of lapis caliminaris, to which two 
ounces of tutty, finely powdered, were 
added, with other metallic fubftances, 
have been given. Some give a pound 
of barrel fo3p, boiled in rtale beer, 
with favin, rue, and other herbs of that 
intention. Others go yet further, be- 
ing determined to kill or cure, by gi- 
ving drinks prepared with green vi- 
triol, roche-allum, Roman vitriol, oil 
of vitriol, boiled in chamber-lie, with 
hemp-feed, hemlock, and common fait. 
Thofe who ufe nothing but the decoc- 
tions or juices of herbs, fuch as worm- 
wood, rue, or elder particularly, ftand 
a much better chance for a cure, if gi- 
ven in time ; but when the diftemper 
is grown inveterate, nothing comes in 
competition with mercurial and anti- 
monial medicines. 

The following balls are proper in 
every ftate of the Farcy ; and when the 
diftemper has been in its infancy, be- 
fore the ikin v/as much defaced, has 
often cured it in a week or two, by 
giving them only once or twice a day ; 
but in an old farcy, they fhould be 
given for two or three months together. 
Take of native cinnabar, or cinna- 
bar of antimony, eight ounces; 
long birthwort. and gum-guaia- 
cum powdered, of each 4 ounces ; 
make into a parte with honey, 
and form into balls of the fize of 
a large 



FAR 



FAT 



a large walnut, and roll them 
into liquorice powder. 

The tedioufnefs of this courfe has 
encouraged the giving of mercurials ; 
and indeed, where they are directed 
with (kill, they mult be attended with 
fuccefs ; the (tronger preparations, as 
the red and white precipitates, and tur- 
bith, being combined with (harp faline 
parts, may be hazardous and injuri- 
ous, but the latter given infmall quan- 
tities have been found very fuccefsful 
in fuch kind of inveterate diforders. 
Mr. Gibfon fays, he has given it to a 
dram at a dofe, where the limbs have 
been greatly fwelled ; that in forty- 
eight hours the fores were all dried up, 
and the limbs reduced ; but that it 
made the horfe fo violently fick for fe- 
veral days, and fcoured him to fuch a 
degree, that it could not be repeated. 

One would have thought, that the 
fuccefs attending this medicine fo fud- 
denly might have encouraged Gibfon 
to have made further trials in (mailer 
quantities ; which, had he done, it is 
more than probable he would not have 
been difappointed \ for the grand fecrct 
in giving mercurials, as alteratives, is 
the introducing them into ,fhe blood, 
without operating on the ffoniach and 
bowcis ; and to do this effectually, 
they mull be given in fmall quanti- 
: nd fo bridled, as to controul 
their force on the f.i it paffages. Ta- 
ken in this manner, they will mix gi a- 
dually with the blood and juices, and 
operate both efleclualiy and fafely. 

The method we would recommend 
is as follows : — Give one fcrupls, or 
half a dram of turbith, mixed into a 
hall, with an ounce of Venice foap, 
every other night for a fortnight j then 
abftain a week or ten days, and repeat 
it again. Should this ball purge, or 
make the horfe fick, mix it up with 
two drams of philonium, or with four 
or five grains of opium, or camphor ; 
with thefe reftricVionSj it may he given 
for fome weeks ; but mould the horfe's 
mouth be found tender or fore, you 
muft refrain giving, till that complaint 
is removed by gentle purges $ and then 
return to it again in fmall quantities ; 
for as the effects of mercurials a;t very 
different in the different conituuriors, 
toth of horfes as well as men, fo the 
quantity muft be varied In proportion 
to the operation, which is not intend- 
ed here to be fenfibl-?. but to work 



imperceptibly no the blood and juices, 
correcting them as a powerful altera- 
tive. During the whole courfe, par- 
ticular care fhould be taken that he 
gets no cold. 

Two ounces of quickfilver, divided 
with an ; u nee of turpentine, and made 
up into four balls, with diapente and 
gum-guaiacum, of each two ounces, 
and a fufficient quantity of honey, 
have, for this purpofe, been fuccefs'- 
fuily given, one ball twice a week ; 
but gentle purgatives mould be inter- 
pofed, to prevent a falivation, which 
feme horfes are very prone to, on ta- 
king mercurials, though in fmall quan- 
tities. 

Dr. Bracken recommends the knot* 
and chords to be rubbed with the mer- 
curial ointment bei'ore they break, in 
order to difperfe them, and, after 
breaking, to drefs the fores with equal 
parts of Venice turpentine and quick- 
filver j if by thefe means the mouth 
fhould become fore, treat as above. 
This method feems to be effectual with 
proper care. 

The 1'oliowing is alfo recommended 
by -the fame gentleman : — 

Take butter of antimony and bezoar 
mineral, of each an ounce, beat up 
v. it'i half a pound of cordial ball, 
and give the bignefs of a walnut, 
or three quarters ot an ounce, 
every day, tor two or tliree weeks, 
f ifiing two or three hours after it. 

Water Farcy. See Dropsy. 

FARDING-BAG. The firft (to- 
maoh of a cow, or any other rumina- 
t;n - animal. 

FARE, 7 Thenumberof pigs a 

kOW, \ fow brings at a tittef. 

FARM. A portion of land culti- 
vated by the owner or ten.mt. 

FARM-HOUSE. The houfe be- 
longing to a farm. 

FARM-YARD. The place adjoin- 
ing to a farm-houfe, where cattle are 
foddered, and feveral other neceflary 
works, belonging to the farm, are 
performed. 

FARTHING-DALE, or Farding- 
dak. The fourth part of an acre of 
land, now commonly called a rood. 

FATHOM. Six feet in meafure. 

Fathom ofTVcod. A parcel of wood 
fet out, fix whereof make a charcoal- 
fire. 

FAT, [^/t/>j.] The fat which lies 

between the fiefisy pahnicle and the 

mem- 



F E A 



FEB 



membrane of the mufcles ; is diftin- 
guifhed from that which covers the 
call by its oilinefs, and is faid to be ge- 
nerated of the more unctuous pai titles 
of the blood, working through the 
veffels, and detained there by theclofe- 
nefs of the faid pannicle. It is not 
one continued covering in horfes, as 
in bullocks, and fome other animals, 
but chiefly fills up the interfaces of the 
mufcles externally, and is not only a 
defence, as the other teguments are, 
but ferves to make a horfe look plump, 
fmooth, and beautiful. 

FAT, or Vat. A veffel for the pur- 
pofe of fermentation, &c. 

FAUCET. The hollow part of the 
tap, in which the peg or fpigot is in- 
ferted. 

FAUFEL. The fruit of a fpecies of 
palm. 

FEABERRY. Goofeberry. 

PRINCE'S FEATHER. See Ama- 

RANT. 

FEATHERFEW, [Matricaria.] This 
is a celebrated antihyfteric. Simon 
Paulli relates, that he has experienced 
moft happy effects from it in obftruc- 
tions of the uterine evacuations. I 
have often feen, fays he, from the ufe 
of a decoction of Matricaria and cha- 
mcemel flowers, with a little mug- 
wort, hyfleric complaints inftantly re- 
lieved, the difcharge f.cceed plenti- 
fully, and the patient, from a lethar- 
gic fiate, return as it were into life 
again. Matricaria is likewife recom- 
mended in fundry other diforders, as a 
warm flimulating bitter. All that bit- 
ters and carminatives can do, fays 
Geoffroy, may be expected from this. 
It is undoubtedly a medicine of fome 
ufe in thefe cafes, though not equal to 
chamcemel flowers alone, with which 
the Matricaria agrees in fenfible quali- 
ties except in being weaker. 

There are five forts ; but that which 
is moft commonly ufed in medic'ne 
is the Parthtnium, or Matricaria vul- 
garis feu fativa. It grows naturally 
in lanes, and upon the fides of banks 
in many parts of England, but it is 
frequently cultivated in phyfic gardens 
te fupply the markets. The ftalks rife 
upwards of two feet high; they are 
round, ftiff, and ftriated; the leaves 
are compofed of feven lobes, which 
are cut into many obtufe fegments ; 
the ftalks and branches are terminated 
by the flowers, which are difpofed al- 



moft in the form of loofe umbels. The 
flowers are compofed of feveral fhort 
rays, which are white like thofe of the 
chamomile, furroundinga yellow difk, 
compofed of hermaphrodite florets, 
which form a hemifphere, and are en- 
clofed in one common fcaly empale- 
ment, which are fucceeded by oblong, 
angular, naked feeds. 

FEBRUARY. The fecond month 
in the year, containing, in leap year, 
twenty-nine days, in others only twen- 
ty-eight. 

Product of the Kitchen Garden. 
Cabbages, favoys, borecole, brocoli, 
carrots, parfnips, turnips, redbeets, 
fkirrets, falfafy, cardoons, coleworts, 
fpinach,potatoes,JerufaIem artichokes, 
onions, leeks, garlick, rocambole, ef- 
challots, fage, parfley, forrel, cabbage- 
fprouts. On the hot-bed, all forts of 
fallad herbs, endive, celery, chervil, 
winter-favory, lavender, thyme, rofe- 
mary, pot marjoram, burner, chard- 
beet, &c. 

Fruits in prime, or lajiing. 
Pears. — Winter Boncretien, Beffy 
de Laffoy, Citron de Hyver, Winter 
RufTclet, Lord Cheyne's green pear, 
Portail, Double Fleur, Carmelite, St. 
Martial ; and for baking, the Cadil- 
lack, Onion or Pickering, Englifli 
Warden, and the black pear of Wor- 
cefter. 

Apples. Aromatic, Holland, French, 
Kentifh, Golden, and Stone Pippins ; 
Golden, Pill's, and Wheeler's Ruffet ; 
John apple, Harvey apple, Winter 
Pearmain, Sec. 

Plants no<w in flower in the Pkafure 

Garden. 
Winter aconite, bearsfoot, true black 
hellebore, green-flowered ditto, fnow- 
drops, fpring crocuffes, fingle anemo- 
nies, fowbread, fingle wall-flower, ear- 
ly tulips, fome hyacinths, hepaticas, 
polyanthufes, heart's-eafe, perennial 
Adonis, violets, and fome others. 
Hardy Trees and Shrubs in flower. 
Lauruflinus, red and white meze- 
reon, white flowered almond, corne- 
lian cherry, manna afh, box tree, ala- 
ternus, or ever-green privet, and fome 
others. 

Medicinal Plants, which may now be ga- 
thered for ufe. 
Silver fir; black, white,. and golden 
maidenchair, chick-weed, affarabacca, 
ground 



FEE 



F E L 



ground ivy, fpurge laurel, cyprefs and 
pine-tree cones, afh-coloured ground 
liver-wort, tree mofs, cup mofs j and, 
if the feafon be forward, violets, colts- 
foot flowers, and water-cieffes. The 
birch will now be fit to keep for its 
juice. 

Plant $ hi fioiver in the G reen-houfe 
and Stove, 

Yellow Indians, ilex-leaved and Spa- 
nifli jafmine, heath-leaved baftard ala- 
ternus, balfam-tree, fome geraniums, 
fome Angle merrygolds,feveial forts of 
aloes, Aleppo fowbread, African fhrub- 
by cacalia, Mexican lily, &c. 

FECES, orFoECES. Dregs, lees, fe- 
diment; excrement. 

FEED. As much corn as is given 
to a horfe at one time. 

FEEDING. See Cow, Horse, 
Sheep, &c. 

Feeding Horfes at Grafs. The pro- 
per time for the giving the hufband- 
man's horfe green food, is in the be- 
ginning of May, and the time for 
taking him up is towards the end of 
Auguft. Let the horfes be turned out 
firft in the heat of the day ; and if it be 
a wet or cold feafon, let him take them 
in at night, till it is dryer or more fa- 
vourable. 

The moft healthy practice is to work 
them as ufual, while they are at grafs, 
taking them up in the morning, and 
giving them a moderate feed of corn 
and chaff, two hours befoie they are 
collared, and repeating the fame after 
they come from work. This is of dou- 
ble ufe, as it keeps them in great 
heart ; and fomewhat dries the green 
and moift food in their bodies. 

In fome places, frefh food is given 
the horfes in racks, and land is fown 
for this pnrpofewith clover, ray-grafs, 
and trefoil together j this keeps them 
in good heart under the tighteft duty. 
Lucerne and faintfoin may be cut to 
advantage in the fame manner. 

Feeding Cotvs at Grafs, The danger 
of cattle being turned at random into 
frefh clover is. that they will eat of it till 
they burft. For this reafon it is beft to 
feed them with it^ fref h mown, in pro- 
per quantities firft, that they may be 
a little ufed to it, before they are turn- 
ed in to take their fill. The novelty of 
the tafte is one thing that recommends 
it, and they are like children in the 
fhop of a grocer, whofe only danger is 
till they are ufed to the fweet things j 
Vol. I. 



after which they will not eat to hurt 
themfelves. 

Some confederation muft alfo be had 
as to the Hate of the cattle, for fome 
will bear a rich nourishment better 
than others ; and as for fuch as feem 
to be moft likely to receive mifchief 
from it, the belt way is to give them 
ftraw with it at firft, and bring them 
to the rich food alone by flow degrees. 
When they are turned into the field 
of clover, it fhould be done gradually, 
and this rule holds good concerning 
thofe which are well enough te be 
trufted in at once, as well as fuch as 
muft have this preparation. 

The right method is firft to turn 
them in about the middle of a hot day, 
when they have e'aten befoie, and the 
leaves of the clover area little flagged. 
The great danger of this food is, when 
it is eaten in too great quantities, and 
when the dew is upon it ; therefore, 
care mult be taken that the clover is 
dry, and that they don't eat too much. 
They fhould be fuffered to be in the 
clover but half an hour the firft day ; 
the next day they fhould be left an 
hour, and fo on till they are accuftom- 
edto it. 

Some regard is to be had to the wea- 
ther in this refpedt ; for experience 
fhews, that clover is very apt to da- 
mage cattle in wet weather, and much 
lefs fo in dry. We have before fpoke . 
of the danger of letting horfes eat of it 
while the dew is on the leaves. Any 
wet with clover, makes it more dan- 
gerous than when dry, and it is from 
this that the caution rifes. 

Feeding of Foioh, See Fowl- 
Fee ding. 

FEET. Plural of foot. See Foot. 
FEE-FARM. Tenure by which 
lands are held from a fuperior or Lord. 
FELLOE, 7 The circumference of a 
FELLY, J wheel. 
FELLER. The fkin. 
FELLING. Cutting down trees, 
&c. When any tree is intended to be 
cut down for timber, the firft thing to 
be taken care of is a fkilful difbranch- 
ing, or lopping off fuch limbs as may 
endanger it in its fall, many trees be- 
ing annually fpoiled for want of a pre- 
vious care of this kind ; and, there- 
fore, in very large arms, chop a nick 
under them clofe to the bole, and then 
meeting it with downright Strokes, it 
will be fevered without fplitting. Take 
T t care 



FEN 



FEN 



care alfo to cut the tree as near the 
ground as poffible, unlefs you defign 
to grub them up, the doing of which 
will be of advantage both to the tim- 
ber and to the wood ; for timber is 
never fo much valued, if it be known 
to grow out of old Mocks. 

FELLWORT. Gentian. 

FELONWORT, [So/anumFignofum.] 

Bitterf-weet. A fpecies of nightfhac'e. 

FEME-COVERT. A married woman 

FEME-SOLE. An unmarried woman 

FEN. A general name for boggy 
marfhy land. 

Fen. A diforder to which hops are 
fubject. Itconfiftsof a quick-growing 
mould, or mofs, which fpreads itfelf 
with great rapidity, and occafions 
dreadful ravages in the hop-grounds. 

FEN-BERRY. A kind of black- 
berry. 

FENCE. No article whatfoever, in 
the hufbandman's whole concern, is of 
more importance to him than that of 
hedges; they are the firft object which 
naturally fhould ftrike his imagina- 
tion, as they are the defence and guard 
of all the reft. 

In all enclofed lands the farmer muft 
keep up a good fence, if he expects to 
reap the fruit of his labours. The 
confequences of one little defect may 
do him more injury, by letting in cat- 
tle upon his crop, than would have 
been the coft of a moft perfect and 
thorough repair. 

There are many fhrubs of which 
hedges may be made, but there is one 
kind almoft universal, that is, the 
white thorn. In fuch places as this 
generally ufed fhrub will not agree 
with, the holly, black thorn, elder, 
furze, and feveral others, are to be cal- 
led in ; but the common method is 
with this. When the hedge is made 
with whitethorn, the careful hufband- 
man will not think it finiihed when he 
has fet that alone ; he will plant in it, 
at proper dillances, timber, or fruit- 
trees, and they will rife to a confider- 
able profit : but this, like all other ad- 
vantages, will be proportioned to the 
care he employs, and to his attention to 
the rules laid down for that purpofe. 

As to timber trees, he is not to 
plant any at random, for one kind fuits 
one foil, and another another ; nor is 
there any one that may not be very 
valuable to him, if it be rightly ma- 
naged, 



As he will want, in due time, a 
good quantity of white-thorn plants, 
or fets, let him prepare for them in 
this manner. Let him make choice 
of a fquare piece of ground, any wafte 
corner will do; and, to chufe, it 
fhould be upon a poor and dry foil. 
This he is to ufe as his nurfery, It 
mutt be within a good fence, that cat- 
tle cannot get into it ; but there re- 
quires no other care, except that it 
itand defended from the north and 
weft. 

In November let this be ploughed 
up, and prepared for the feeds, and ear- 
ly in the fucceeding fpringlet them be 
fown, the ground having been well 
weeded during the winter. 

Let furrows of five inches deep be 
made, at two feet diftance, and in thefe 
fow the feeds of the common haws, 
gathered the autumn before, and kept 
dry during the winter. 

As foon as they appear above the 
ground, which will not be till the fe- 
cond year, weed them carefully be- 
tween the rows, and immediately after 
give the ground a good watering ; and 
repeat this weeding and watering at 
times as fhall be found neceffary, till 
the young plants are got up to a tole- 
rable height, and their ftems at the 
bottom are about as thick as a man's 
thumb. 

The hufbandman, having thus fur- 
nifhed himfelf with a fufficient quan- 
tity of fets ready for his purpofe, is to 
take a view of the ground, and exa- 
mine its foil and fituation, that he may 
know in what manner to fet about his 
work. 

The firft thing to be done is, to 
mark out the courfe of the ditch, and 
its breadth. It is to be three feet wide 
at the top, and its depth is to be two 
feet. It is beft to allow but a foot 
breadth at the bottom of the ditch, 
when it is a yard wide at the top. 
This will give fuch a flant to each fide, 
that the hedges will not fo eafily break 
in, and will cramp the legs of the cat- 
tle fo, that as they can neither walk 
eafily, nor turn about in the ditch, 
they will not get that habit of going 
into it. 

The breadth and depth already men- 
tioned, are, in general, fufficient for 
the ditch in a common inclofure ; but 
where, from any particular circum- 
ftance, it is judged convenient to 
na^ke 



FEN 



FEN 



make h larger, it muft be carried on 
in the fame proportions. 

When the breadth of the ditch is 
thus marked out, let the labourer be 
fet to dig ; and that he may prepare 
the bank properly lor the quick that is 
to be fet on it, let him iay the turf re- 
gularly, with the grafly fide down- 
wards, upon that fide of the ditch on 
which the hedge is to be raifed. 

Upon this turf, thus turned bottom 
upwards, let him fpread the beft of 
the mould ; and having thus prepared 
a bed for the quick, let the firft row 
of it be brought in and laid. 

Let the fets be well chofen ; let them 
be ftrait, fmooth, even-growim- fhoots, 
and well rooted ; and let them be 
brought frefh taken up. 

The bank being thus far prepared, 
and the quick ready, let it be lain care- 
fully in. The fets muft be laid on this 
bed at a foot diftance, and with the 
end inclining a little upwards. 

Let the courfe of the bank be mea- 
fured, and at every thirty feet make a 
mark. At each of thefe marks plant 
a thriving young tree of oak, afli, elm, 
or whatever kind is found to fucceed 
beft in the neighbouring foil ; or of 
fuch fruit trees as will agree with it, 
taking care to fet it upright and fteady. 

One row of quickfets being thus 
laid, let them be covered well with 
fome more of the beft mould ; and up- 
on this let there be laid a covering of 
turf, turned bottom upwards, and laid 
even, and in a workman-like manner. 

Upon this turf fpread another co- 
vering of the beft of the mould, to 
make abed for a fecond row of quick. 
This bed is to be in the whole a foot 
thick over the firft row ; and when the 
bank is well raifed to this height, ano- 
ther parcel of fels are to be brought 
frefh, ftrait, and well-rooted, as before 
directed. Thefe are to be laid in the 
fame manner as the firft, with the ends 
inclining a little upwards, and placed 
at a foot diftance one from the other ; 
each being laid in the middle of the 
fpacethat is between every two of the 
firft row. 

When thefe are carefully laid, they 
muft be covered with more good 
mould, three or four inches thick, and 
then the foil that is dug out of the bot- 
tom of the ditch, is to be laid over 
this earth, and the bank finifhed with 
it. 



The ditch is now dug, and the earth 
thrown up is all employed, the quick- 
fets and young trees are planted, and 
the banK is made. The hedge and 
ditch h^refore are finifhed, and there 
requires noihing more to be done but 
to fecure them from injuries. 

For the defence and fhelter of thefe 
fets, a dead hedge is to be made at the 
top of the bank. This is a hedge of 
dead wood, fattened by dead ftakes, 
which, being well wrought together, 
will ftand very fecurely, till the quick 
is of fuch a height and ftrength, as to 
need no defence upon its own account, 
and to be a fufticient enclofure to the 
land. 

For the dead hedge, a proper quan- 
tity of bum wood is to be provided, 
and a proportionable number offtakes. 
Thefe are the better the founder wood 
they are made of. 

Thefe ftakes muft be driven in at 
two feet and a half diftance, and the 
workman ought to fee that each (lands 
firm and faft. Then let him begin the 
hedge. He muft lay the fmall bulhes 
at the bottom in fuch a manner, that 
they may cover the quick when it firft 
fhoots, and be a defence to it againft 
the bitings of cattle, that may chance 
to get down into the ditch. This is 
the firft care ; after this the long bufhes 
are to be laid in, and the longeft of all 
at top, twifting them in between the 
ftakes. 

When the hedge is thus carried to 
its due height, let a parcel of long and 
(lender poles be provided, and the tops 
of the ftakes bound in with them on 
each fide; this is what is called in the 
country phrafe, eddering a hedge ; and 
this finifhes the work. 

There are two feafons in the year 
for planting a quickfet hedge, and only 
two, for it will net fucceed in any o- 
thers. Thefe are early in fpring, or 
late in the autumn. 

For the fpring planting, the Iaft 
week in February, and the firft in 
March, are the beft ; for the autumn 
the whole month of October, and the 
firft and fecond week in NovemKer : 
a quickfet planted at either of thefe 
feafons will grow, but by what we 
have feen from frequent experience, 
we prefer the fpring plantation. 

The next fpring after the laying of 
quick, let the farmer go over the whole 
bank, firft examining the dry hedge. 

Tt 2, If 



FEN 



FEN 



If he find it loofe anywhere, let this 
be remedied by driving a new flake, or 
fattening the old ones ; and if any o- 
ther deficiency appear, let him fee it 
repaired in the fame manner. 

When he has rectified what was a- 
mifs in this, let him view, deliberate- 
ly and feparately, the quickfets. He 
mull now fee frefh fets put in the 
place of the dead ones ; and trim up 
the others with due care. 

Some advife the planting the fruit 
or timber trees in the hedge at this 
time ; and others recommend the do- 
ing that, when it was at two, three, 
or four year's growth ; but from what 
we have feen in practice, we greatly 
prefer the planting them at the making 
of the bank, at the fame time with the 
quick : for thus they take their growth 
together ; and there is no disturbance 
of the fence, as there muft be in plan- 
ting them when all is fettled. 

Before the farmer takes a view of 
his young quickfet, let him order it to 
be weeded. This muft be done care- 
fully and thoroughly ; and it muft be 
repeated at times ; for the quick, while 
it is young, fhould have all the nou- 
rifhment the ground can yield, and 
not be Starved by the weeds. This 
clearing will give the owner a distinct 
view of the condition of the fet, that 
he may know what to fupply. 

If, by any accident, fheep have got 
at it, or other cattle, it will be difco- 
vered by the tops being eaten off, and 
cropped irregularly, and mangled at 
the ends. In this cafe there is but one 
method to reftore any hope of a good 
hedge; the whole growth muft be e- 
venly cut off, within an inch and half 
of the ground ; and there will then be 
a new and frefh fet of fhoots that 
fpring, which would not have happen- 
ed from the gnawed ends, at leaft not 
with any degree of regularity or beauty. 
Let the induftrious hufbandman re- 
move its redundances, and fupply the 
defe£l. Let him with his knife take 
off ill-fhaped and draggling branches. 
Let him fee that no unnecefTary dead 
wood be left at the bottom, for that 
will choak the quick. And let him 
carefully root up all thofe tangling 
weeds, which are fo common in hed- 
ges, and at oncefpoil their beauty, and 
injure their growth. 

The principal of thofe weeds which 
are destructive, to hedges, are four. 



White bryony, black bryony, travel^ 
lersjoy, and bind-weed ; thefe all co- 
ver the hedges to a great extent. 

From this time very little care is re- 
quired till the hedge is of a growth for 
plafhing ; this is not till eight or ten 
years after the planting. 

We will fuppofe the hedge planted 
and dreffed, as already defcribed, to 
be grown to eight, ten, or twelve years 
Standing. It will by this time be loofe 
and irregular in its growth, there will 
be vacancies at the bottom, and gaps 
in many places, and it will be full of 
thick and old itumps and ltubbs, as 
well as of young moots. 

Upon a view of the condition of the 
hedge, the hufbandman is to confider 
in what manner he is to go to work. 
The ftubbs are ufelefs; but among 
the reft he muft confider, that he is to 
referve fome fhoots for laying down, 
and others to ferve by way of Stakes. 
For the firft purpofe he is to felecT; 
thofe which are longeft and freSheft ; 
and fuch as are of a middle growth ; 
for the ltakes, he is to leave fuch as 
are fomewhat larger, and ftand pro- 
perly, and grow tolerably Straight for 
the firft five or fix feet. It matters 
not for the reft, becaufe they are to be 
cut off at that height; their ufe re" 
quiring no more. 

When the hufbandman has thus 
confidered, let him go to work. He is 
to cut away all the old ftubbs within 
two inches of the ground, Striking 
them off Sloping. After this let him go 
on thinning his hedge, by cutting away 
all but the proper fhoots for flakes, 
which he is to Strike off at the height 
he designs his hedge, and the long 
fhoots for laying, which he is to leave 
entire. 

As there will not be enough of thefe 
fhoots for Stakes, growing as they 
fhould do ; he muft make fome others 
to drive into the ground, where there 
is a deficiency. 

When the ufelefs Stuff is thus cut 
away, a fpade may be got between the 
fhoots ; and the labourer is to be em- 
ployed to clean away and new-make 
the ditch. Let him dig this juSt as ic 
was at firft, making the top wide, the 
bottom narrow, and the fides Sloping. 
As he is at work upon this, let him 
clear away all filth from about the 
roots of the quick ; and where the earth 
has mouldered away from them, add 
fome 



FEN 



FEN 



fome of the beft that comes out In dig- 
ging the ditch, preffing it well into the 
hollows. 

A great deal of the better mould 
from the ditch will be thus ufed in 
filling up holes, and facing of the bank, 
the reft is to be laid at the top ; for if 
the fides be loaded, they will break 
with the rains, and what falls off will 
choak up the ditch; and as it would 
be only hurtful thus laid on the fides, 
it is of great fervice when laid on the 
top, heightening the bank, and greatly 
improving the fence. 

The trees are to be lopped in the 
ufual manner, if timber trees; and if 
fruit-trees, to be pruned up above the 
reach of the cattle. 

The ditch is now cleaned, the bank 
repaired, and the ftakes ready. Let the 
new ones be well and firmly driven, 
where there are not a fufficient num- 
ber of the upright flioots left for that 
purpofe ; and thefe being difpofed, the 
work is ready for the plainer. 

He is to take each of the long (hoots 
which are left ftanding feverally, and 
bending it gradually he is to give it 
a flopingcut with his bill half through ; 
it will then fall eafily, and he is to 
weave it in between ftake and ftake 
carefully. 

When he has thus worked in all the 
fhoots left for that purpofe, he is to go 
over his work, and trim off" the ftrag- 
gling fprigs, to render it uniform and 
even. 

A great deal of the fuccefs of this 
work depends upon the method of lay- 
ing thefe boughs, when they are cut 
through fo far as to obey the hand 
of the workman. If they be laid too 
low and too thick, as many do, through 
an opinion of Strengthening the hedge, 
the fap is all fent into the fhoots ; and 
the plafhes ftarve and will decay. On 
the other hand, if they be laid too high, 
then they draw in all the nourifhment ; 
and the flioots are ftarved. Both thefe 
accidents are to be avoided in a middle 
courfe. It is not the farmer's incereft 
to ftarve the fhoots to feed the plafhes, 
nor to ruin the piafhes for the fhoots ; 
he is to derive a proper quantity of 
nourishment into both ; and this will 
be done by laying them in a middling 
way. Befides, this has another ad- 
vantage, that if the plafhes are not too 
deep cut, and are laid thus evenly, or 
nearly upon a level, the fap is not all 



direded to their ends, but fends up 
fhoots from every part. 

This abundance of young fhoots 
will aifo be promoted by the proper 
cutting of the branches of the plafhed 
boughs. They are to be cut oft' fliort 
at five or fix inches length on each fide 
of the hedge ; and this will make them 
fend out fide flioots of their own, as 
well as promote the growth of others, 
to the great beauty and ftrength of the 
hedge. 

As to the feafons of plafhing of 
hedges, there is but one proper. Som« 
do it in Oclober, and pretend particu- 
lar advantages from that time ; but let 
the hufbandman truft to experience, 
and affure himfelf, that the only right 
feafon is the month of February. 

While the hedge is growing up from 
the plafhing, it will be proper to have 
the fame eye upon it as at firft ; ta- 
king care, in fpring and fall, to cut 
away the ftraggling branches, and to 
root out weeds : thus the fence will 
grow regular, thick, and clean ; and 
from this renewing, in the fame man- 
ner as from its firft rife, will exceed, 
in every refpect, thofe of the neigh- 
bourhood, which are not looked after 
with the fame degree of care. 

FENNEL, [r&nkulum.] The fpecies 
are, i. Common fennel ; 2.' fweet fen- 
nel ; 3. Azorian fennel, or Finochio. 
The firft is a very common plant in 
gardens; the fecond is the medicinal 
fort. Both thefe are eafily propagated 
by fowing the feeds in autumn. 

The fweet fennel is fmaller in all its 
parts than the common, except the 
feeds, which are confiderably larger. 
The feeds of the two forts differ like- 
wife in Ihape and colour ; thofe of the 
common are roundifh, oblong, flattifh 
on one fide, and protuberant on the 
other, of a dark almost blackifh co- 
lour : thofe of the fweet are longer, 
narrower, not fo flat, generally crook- 
ed, and of a whitifh or pale yellowifh 
colour. Both forts are cultivated in 
our gardens : t ;, e common is a peren- 
nial plant : the fweet perifhes after it 
has given feed ; nor do its feeds come 
to fuch perfection in this climate as 
thefe which we receive from Germany, 

The feeds of both the fennels have 
an aromatic fmell, and a moderately 
warm, pungent tafte; thofe of the fce- 
nicu/um duhe are in flavour moft agree, 
able, and have alfo a confiderable de- 



FEN 



FEN 



gree of fweetifhnefs ; hence our college 
have directed the ufe of thefe only. 
They are ranked among the four grea- 
ter hot feeds, and not undefervediy 
looked upon as good ftomachtcs and 
carminatives. The root is confidera- 
bly lefs warm, but has more of a 
fweetifh tafte than the feeds. It is one 
of the five roots called openers; and 
has fometimes been directed in aperi- 
ent apozems. Boerhaave obferves, that 
this root exactly agrees in tafte, fmell, 
and medical qualities, w'uh the cele- 
brated Ginfeng of the Chinefe; and 
therefore thinks it may very jufily fup- 
ply its place. The leaves of fennel are 
weaker than either the roots or feeds, 
and have very rarely been employed for 
any medicinal ufe. 

The Finochio is fown in the middle 
of March, or beginning of April, and 
to continue a fucceffion till winter, 
repeat the fovvings every month till 
July ; chufe an open fpot of rich light 
ground, and by line and hoe draw 
ftiallow drills, two feet diftant ; fcatter 
the feeds thinly alon; the bottom, and 
cover them near a quarter of an inch 
deep with finely broken mould, and 
when the plants are an inch cr two 
high, fmall hoe them to kill weeds, 
and thin them to three inches, and in 
two or three weeks after cut them out 
to treble that diftance, that the bafe 
of the ftem may have room to (well. 
When the ftalks are confiderably 
fwelled at bottom, earth them up en 
each fide, and in two or three weeks 
that part will be very white and tender. 
flof'iFENNEL, [PeuceJanum.] There 
are feveral forts of this plant growing 
naturally in fome parts of England and 
France, and preferved in the botanic 
gardens. They may be all propagated 
by feeds fown in autumn, foon after 
they are ripe. The roots were formerly 
held in fome ellimation, but prefent 
practice entirely difregards it. 

GmwcFennel, [Ferula.'] This plant 
is pretty common in the Englifh gar- 
dens ; and, if planted in a good foil, 
will grow to the height of ten or 
twelve feet, and divide into many 
branches. The lower leaves of this 
fort fpread more than two feet every 
way, which are fubdivided into many 
fmall ones, garnifhed with very long 
narrow fmall leaves, of a lucid green. 
From the center of the plant ccmes 
cut the flower- ftalk, which, when the 



plants are ftrong, will be near as Iargs 
as a common broomftick, and will rife 
ten or twelve feet high, with many 
joints ; if the ftalks are cut, there if- 
fues from the veffels a foetid yellowifh 
liquor, which will concrete on the fur- 
face of the wound. The ftalks are ter- 
minated by large umbrels of yellow 
flowers, which come out the latter end 
of June, or in the beginning of July, 
which are fucceeded by oval compref- 
fed feeds, having three lines running 
longitudinally on each fide. Thefe 
ripen in September, and the ftalks de- 
cay foon after. 

There are feveral kinds of the above 
plant, all propagated by feeds fown in 
autumn. 

Searching Fennel. Deadly carrot. 

Siveet Fennel. See Fennel. 

FENNEL-FLOWER, [Nige//a.~\ See 
Devil in a Bush. 

FENUGREEK, [Feetium Gracum, 
Triger.ella.'] This is an annual plant, 
which rifes with a hollow, branching, 
herbaceous ftalk, a foot and a half 
high, garnifhed with trifoliate leaves, 
placed alternately, whofe lobes are ob- 
long, oval, indented on their edges, 
and have broad furrowed foot-ftalks. 
The flowers come out fingly at each 
joint from the wings of the ftalk ; they 
are white, of the butterfly-kind, and 
fit very clofe to the ftalk j thefe are 
fucceeded by long comprefled pods, 
fhaped-fomewhat like a broad fword, 
ending in long points, having a broad 
membrane on one edge, filled with 
fquare yellow feeds, indented on one 
fide like a kidney. The whole plant 
has a very ftrong odour. 

This plant has not as yet beenculti- 
vated in any quantity for ufe in Eng- 
land, as it has generally proved a very 
uncertain crop, occafioned by the in- 
con ftancy of the weather here, for in 
cold wet feafons the plants are fre- 
quently killed before the feeds ripen ; 
and if any of them live long enough 
to perfect their feeds, the pods change 
of a dirty colour, and the feeds turn 
black and unfightly, efpecially when 
much rain falls abcut the time of their 
ripening ; therefore the feeds, which 
are imported from the continent, are 
always preferred to thofe of our own 
growth. 

But as the confumption of thefe feeds 
is very great in England, and fome per- 
rons may be inclinable to make trials 



FEN 



FER 



to cultivate the plants here ; wefhall 
here give fuch directions for the ma- 
nagement of this plant, as from expe- 
rience has been found to fuccsed beft. 
The ground in which this plant 
thrives beft, is a light hazel loam, not 
enriched with dung; this fhould be 
cleaned from the roots of weeds, and 
well ploughed twice, and harrowed 
fine before the feeds are fown. The 
beft time to fow the feeds is in the be- 
ginning of September, in fhallow drills 
like peafe. The rows fhould be two 
feet afunder, and the feeds fhould be 
fcattered one inch diftant from each o- 
ther in the drills ; for if the plants are 
too clofe together in the fpring, they 
may be eafily thinned with the hoe 
when the ground is cleaned. When 
the feeds are fown at the above-menti- 
oned time, the plants will appear in 
three weeks or a month after ; and if 
the weeds appear at the fame time, the 
ground fhould be hoed over as foon as 
poffible in dry weather, to deftroy the 
weeds ; and when the plants are grown 
an inch high, the earth fhould be drawn 
up to their ftems, in the fame manner 
as is praclifed for peafe. This will fe- 
cure their ftems from being injured by 
ftiarp cutting winds ; and if a ridge of 
earth is drawn up on the north or eaft 
fide of each row, it will prote£l the 
plants from the pinching winds which 
blow from both thofe quarters ; for 
though this plant will not be in any 
danger from the frofts in the ordinary 
winters, yet, in very fevere frofts they 
are fometimes killed ; but, as this plant 
will live in any fituation, where peafe 
will ftand through the winter, there 
will be no greater hazard of the one 
crop than the other. 

In the fpring of the year, the ground 
muft be hoed again in dry weather to 
kill the weeds, and the plants fhould 
be again earthed up in the like manner 
as peafe, with whofe culture this plant 
will thrive ; but there muft be great 
care taken to keep the ground as clean 
from weeds as poffible, for if they are 
permitted to grow, they will foon ad- 
vance above the plants, and greatly 
weaken them ; and when their pods 
begin to form, they cannot be too much 
expofed to the fun and air, whereby 
they will be lefs liable to fuffer from 
moifture. 

When the feeds are fown in autumn, 
the plants will grow much ftronger, 



and have many more fide branches than 
thofe which come up in the fpring, (o 
will produce a much greater crop of 
feeds ; and thefe will produce their 
flowers five or fix weeks earlier, fo 
wiil have a better feafon to ripen ; but 
in order to have them better ripened, 
the top of the plants fhould be cut off 
with garden-ftiears about the middle 
of June, by which time the pods will 
be formed on the lower part of the 
ftalks, which will be greatly iorwarded 
by topping of the ftalks in the fame 
way as is commonly praclifed for gar- 
den-beans; for where the plants are 
fuffered to exiend in length, the lower 
pods often mifcarry, or are lefs nou- 
rifhed, and thofe on the top of the 
ftalks are late before they ripen ; fo 
where the topping of the plants is o- 
mitted, the pods at bottom wiil open 
and caft out their feeds, before thofe 
above will be ripe; therefore, to pre- 
ferve the firft and cut off the other, 
will be found the beft method, for by 
fo doing, the pods will ripen equally, 
and much earlier in the feafon. 

If the fummer proves warm, the 
feeds will ripen in Auguft, and the 
plants fhould then be cut off, and laid 
to dry for five or fix days, in which 
time they fhould be turned two or 
three times, that the pods may dry 
equally; then the feeds may be either 
threfhed out in the field, or the haulm 
may be houfed in a barn, to be threfh- 
ed in a more' convenient time. 

There are two or three different forts, 
natives of Sicily, Spain, and Ruffia, 
which are cultivated in the botanic 
gardens, and are alj propagated in the 
fame manner. 

FENNY - LAND. Marfhy, boggy 
land, covered with water. 

FEOFFMENT. The aft of grant- 
ing polfeffion. 

FERMENTATION. A flow mo- 
tion of the interline particles of a mix- 
ed body, arifing ufually from the ope- 
ration of fomeaclive acid matter,which 
rarifies, exalts, and fubtilizes the foft 
and fulphureous particles, as when lea- 
ven or yeaft rarifies, lightens, and fer- 
ments wort, bread, &c. . a 

FERN. The name of one of the /3?/1/YC 
worft of weeds, and one of the moft 
difficult to deftroy, where it has a deep 
foil to root in. Mr. Mortimer fays, 
he has feen its root eight or ten feet 
deep in fome grounds 5 and adds, that 

the 



F E R 



F E V 



the befl way of killing it is by cutting 
it often while it is in grafs ; that the 
mod proper feafons for this purpofe are, 
fpring, Midfummer, and Michaelmas; 
that is, when the circulation of the 
fap is ftrongeft. Moftof the roots be- 
ing then cut af under, and thereby de- 
prived of the channels through which 
nature intended to convey the fap, will 
bleed to death, or if it ftagnates in 
them, they will foon rot. The fern 
itfelf, if cut when full of fap, and left 
to rot upon the ground, will greatly 
improve the foil, and mellow it fo as 
to prevent its binding : or, if it be 
burnt whenfo cut.it will yield a much 
greater quantity of fait than any other 
vegetable. If it be ploughed up, plen- 
tiful dunging of the land, and fprink- 
lingitweil with afhes, have been found 
to kill this weed : but the moft cer- 
tain cure for it is urine. In feveral 
parts of the North, where they keep 
their fern under, and deftroy a great 
deal of it, by mowing it frequently 
when green, they alfo find that rolling 
of it is of great fervice; and, when 
they burn it, the poor people make the 
afhes of it up into balls, with a little 
water, dry them in the fun, and ufe 
them in warning their linen, for which 
they think them nearly as good as foap. 
Often treading down tlyjfe plants, and 
feeding flieep on them, is ("aid to be 
?!moft an infallible way of killing the 
fern. 

Trees planted among fern will thrive 
very much, though it be on a hot gra- 
vel ; the fern fhading their roots, and 
>g them moift and cool. 

Sweet Fern, [Scannix.] Shepherd's 
Needle, Venus -comb. An annual 
plant, growing naturally in ffiff lands 
among corn. The leaves see finely di- 
vided into fmall fegments, and have 
long foot-fialks 5 the italks rife fix in- 
ches high. The flowers are fmall, 
white, and like thofe of wild chervil, 
and fit upon the top of "theEeak or 
horns, which are the rudiment of the 
pod. At the bottom of the fmall umbel 
five leaves embrace the llalk, with 
broad and fhort foot-ftalks, which are 
afterwards cut into fmall fegments 
like the reft : the feed is long, and runs 
into a fma!i point, refembling a large 
needle, but the umbels have great re- 
femblance to the umbels of Mufk 
Crane's-bill. If the feeds are permit- 



ted to fcatter, there will be a plenti- 
ful fucply of young plants. 

FERTILE. Fruitful, abundant. 

FERTILITY. Abundance, fruit- 
fulnefs. 

FESCUE. The name of a genus of 
grafs, of which there are feveral fpe: 
cies ; as the flote-fefcue, fheep's fefcue, 
&C. See Flote-Fescue, Sheep's- 
Fescue. 

FESILS. A kind of bafe grain. 

FESTING-PENNY. Earneft given 
to fervants when hired. 

FETTERS. Chains for the feet. 

FEVER. A difeafe that frequently 
attacks feveral forts of cattle, particu- 
larly horfes. 

The fymptoms which denote the 
horfe to be afflicted with a fever, are, 
great reftleffnefs, the creature ranging 
from one end of the rack to the other ; 
his flanks heat ; his eyes are red and 
inflamed ; his tongue parched and dry ; 
his breath hot, and of a Itrong fmell ; 
he lofes his appetite, and nibbles his 
hay, but without chewing it, and is 
frequently fmelling to the ground ; the 
whole body is hotter than ordinary, 
(though not parched, as in fome in- 
flammatory diforders) he dungs often, 
little at a time, ufually hard, and in 
fmall bits ; he fometimes ftales with 
difficulty, and his urine is high co- 
loured ; he feems to thirft, but drinks 
little at a time, and often; his pulfe 
beat full and hard, to fifty ftrokes 
and upwards in a minute. 

The firft intention of cure is bleed- 
ing, to the quantity of two or three 
quarts, if the horfe is itrong and in 
good condition; then give him a pint 
of the following drink four times a 
day ; or an ounce of nitre, mixed up 
into a ball with honey, may be given 
thrice a day, inftead of che drink, and 
wafhed down with three or four horns 
of any fmall liquor. 

Take of baum, fage, and chamo- 
mile flowers, each a handful; li- 
quorice root fliced half an ounce; 
fait prunel, or nitre, three oun- 
ces ; infufe the whole into two 
quarts of boiling water, and when 
cold, ftrain it off; then fqueeze 
into it the juice of two or three 
lemons, fweeten it with honey. 

As the chief ingredient to be de-. 
pended upon in the drink is the nitre, 

it 



F E V 



F E V 



It may, perhaps, be as well given in wa- treacle, and a pint of linked oil, 

ter alone ; but as a horfe's ftomach is or any common oil. 

foon palled, and he requires palatable Two quarts of water - gruel, fat 

medicines, the oiher ingredients may, broth, or pot liquor, with the treacle 

in that refpecl, have their ufe. Soley- and oil, will anfwer this purpofe ; to 

fel for this purpofe advifes two ounces which may be added a handful of fait, 

of fait of tartar, and one of fal-armo- Thefe fort of clylters are pi operer than 

mac, to be diffolved in two quarts of thofe with purging ingredients. _ 

water, and mixed with a pail of com- The following opening drink is very 

mon water, adding a handful of bran effectual in thefe fevers, and may bs 

or barley-flour, ttTqualify the unplea- given every other day, when the cly- 

fant talte. This may be given every iters fhould be omitted ; brtthe nitre- 

dav, and is an ufeful medicine. balls, or drink, may be continued, ex- 

The following may alfo be given for cept on the days thefe are taken, 

this purpofe : Take of cream of tartar and Glau- 

Take Ruffia pearl-afhes one ounce, b.er's falts, each four ounces 5 dif- 



diftilled vinegar one pint, faring 
water two pints, honey four oun- 
ces ; give a pint three or four 
times a day. 

This neutral mixture, and the nitre 
drink before-menticned, may be taken 
alternately ; they are both efficacious 
remedies, and in fome cafes may pro- 
perly enough be joined with the cam- 
phire drink. 

His diet fhould be fcalded bran, gi- 
ven in fmall quantities ; winch, if he 
refufes, let him have dry bran fprink- 
led with water : put a handful of pick- 
ed hay into the rack, which a horfe 
will often eat, when he will touch no- 
thing elfe : his water need not be much 
warmed, but fhould be given often, 
and in fmall quantities : his cbathing 
fhould be moderate, too much heat 
and weight on a horfe being improper 
in a fever 5 which fcarce ever goes off 
In critical fweats (as thofe in the hu- 



folve in barley-water, or any other 
liquor : an ounce or two of leni- 
tive ele&uary may be added, or a 
dram or two of powder of jalap, 
to quicken the operation in fome 
horfes. 
Four ounces of Glauber's falts, or 
cream cf tartar, with the fame quan- 
tity of lenitive elecluary, may be given 
for the fame purpofe, if the former 
fhould not open the body fufficiently. 
The diet fhould be regular; no oats 
given, but fcalded or raw bran fprink- 
led ; the bell flavoured hay fhould be 
given by handfuls, and often by hand, 
as the horfe fometimes cannot lift up 
his head to the rack. 

Dilute the blood with plenty of wa- 
ter, or white drink ; let his diet be 
warm bran malhes, and his hay fprink- 
led. Should the fever rife, which will 
be known by the fymptoms above de- 
fcribed, give him an ounce of nitre 
thrice a day in his water, or made up 



man body terminate) but by flrong ; n a ba]1 wkh honey _ Let his body be 



perfpiration. 

If, in a day or two, he beg ; ns to eat 
his bran, and pick a little hay, this 
method, with good nurfing, will an- 
fwer; but if he refufes to feed, more 
blood fhould be taken away, and the 
drinks continued ; to which may be 
added two or three drams of faffron, 
avoiding at this time all hotter medi- 
cines : the following clyfter fhould be 
given, which may be repeated every 
day, efpecially if his dung be knotty 
and dry. 

Take two handfuls of marfh-mal- 
Jows, and one of chamomile flow- 
ers ; fennel-feed an ounce ; boil 



kept cool and open, with the opening 
drink, given twice or thrice a week ; 
or an ounce of fait of tartar may be gi- 
ven every day, diffolved in his water, 
for that purpofe, omitting then the 
nitre. After a week's treatment in this 
manner, the cordial ball may b.e given 
once or twice a day, with an inlufion 
of liquorice root fweetened with ho- 
ney ; to which may be added, when 
the phlegm is tough, or cough dry and 
hufky, a quarter of a pint of linfeed or 
faliad-oil, and the fame quantity of 
oxymel of fquiils. 

Fevers in Convs. The fymptoms 



are, trembling, reitleffnefs, weaknefs, 
in three quarts of water to two, and daggering in the gait ; the eyes be- 
ftrain off, and add four ounces of come heavy and inflamed, often red or 
Vol. I. U u yellow., 



F I C 



F I D 



yellow, in that part called the white ; 
the head is heavy and lumpifh, the 
bead is dull and ftupid, uttering fighs 
and moans as if in great pain, and 
fetches breath with difficulty; the 
mouth and tongue are very hot and 
dry, uulefs foaming, which ibmetimes 
happens ; the food is neglected with a 
loathing, the (kin is hot. and the hairs 
flare and feem to ft art an end, and fre- 
quently the fkin breaks otic in fudden 
fvreats. 

The cure mufl be begun with bleed- 
ing, which of all things is molt likely 
to lefTen the inflammation, and eafe the 
difficulty of breathing. 

The beaft fhould be kept at home, 
and very fhort of food, and warm 
mafhes often changed and fet before 
them, made with bran or oatmeal and 
water, with fome nitre and honey dif- 
folved in them. 

After bleeding, in cafe the beaft has 
not lately dunged, let a clyfter be 
thrown up warm, made with gruel, 
oil, &c. and repeated occafionally. 

After this, give one of the following 
balls once in about fix hours. 

Nitre, turmeric, liquorice powder, 
each one ounce ; honey, enough 
to make a ball or two for a dofe. 
Or either of the following drinks : 

No. i. — Nitre and cream of tartar, 
each half an ounce, in fome warm 
gruel, fweetened with honey, eve- 
ry fix hours. 

No. 2. — One ounce of crude fal am- 
moniac every fix hours in fome 
warm ale. 

Dr. James's powder for cattle we 
have heard much commended, but from 
our own experience we pronounce no- 
thing. 

We would by all means advife the 
flail to be kept cool in fummer, but 
warm in winter, admitting air which 
mav be kindly, but not chilling. 

FEVERFEW. See Ff.athe rf v w. 

FEVER-WEED. See Stinking E- 

RYNGO. 

FEU1LLAGE. A bunch or row of 
leaves. 

FEUILLAMORT. The colour of 
a faded leaf, generally pronounced 
Philemort. 

FEUTERER. A dog-keeper. 

FEWEL. Firing. 

F I C O I D E S, [Mefembryanthemum.] 
Fig Marygold, 



This genus comprifes a numerous 
tribe of curious fucculent flowering 
plants for the green-houfe, annual and 
perennial, all with fucculent ftalks and 
branches, fome trailing and herbace- 
ous, others eredl and fhrubby, and o- 
thers without a vifible ftalk. One an- 
nual fpecies is the diamond Ficoides, 
or Ice-plant, which rifes with a fhort, 
thick, fucculent (talk, dividing low in- 
to many trailing, very fpreading, fuc- 
culent branches, befpangled all over 
with icy pimples, very pellucid and 
glittering; oval, undulate, alternate, 
papulofe, or pimply glittering leaves ; 
and, from the fides of the branches, 
numerous, almoft clofe-fitting, white 
flowers, tinged with red orcrimfon; 
fucceeded by plenty of feed in autumn. 

This fingular and curious plant is 
clofely covered with large pellucid pim- 
ples, full of moifture, fhining bril- 
liantly like diamonds or bubbles of ice ; 
whence it derives the name as above ; 
it is in great efteem by the curious for 
its Angularity, and highly merits a place 
amongft the tender annuals of theplea- 
fure-garden. 

The other annual is the Fig Mary- 
gold of Naples, or Egyptian Kali. 

The other fpecies of Fig Marygold, 
amounting to forty-four in number, 
are all perennials. They are natives 
of Africa, and in this country require 
the affiftance of the green-houfe. 

The flowers of all are monopeta- 
lous, but each is finely divided almoft 
to the bottom into numerous narrow 
fegments, appearing like fome forts of 
Marygolds, and which, in their native 
Africa, are fucceeded by a fruit fhaped 
fomewhat like a fig. 

The propagation of the annuals is 
by fowing the feeds on a hot-bed in 
thefpring, like the Amaranthus. 

The propagation of the others is by 
cuttings managed as for the cutting o- 
ther tender exotics. 

FIDDLE-DOCK, [Rumex pulcher.] 
A kind of dock growing near London. 
It is a biennial, and perifties foon after 
it ripens its feeds. 

FIDDLE -WOOD, [Citharexyicr.,] 
There are two fpecies of this tree 
growing common in the Weft-India 
I/lands^ where it grows to be a large 
timber tree, and is very ufeful in build- 
ing. It requires the affiftance of a 
ftove to bear our winters. Jt is pro~ 
pagated by feeds or cutting?., 

FIELD, 



FIG 



F I G 



FIELD. A piece of ground enclofed 
for tillage or pafture. 

FIELD BASIL, [demos.] A kind 
of Bafil. 

FIG-TREE, [Ficus.] The common 
fig-tree of our gardens conlifts only of 
one fpecies, very comprehenlive in the 
varieties of its fruit, is of the decidu- 
ous tribe, moderately hardy, producing 
fruit in great perfection againft walls, 
alfo tolerably in efpalicrs and ftand- 
ards ; but befides this fort, there are 
feveral other tender exotic fpecies, 
fometimes retained in our hot-houfes, 
for variety. 

The common fig produces its fruit 
upon the young fhoots of the former 
year, riling immediately from the eyes 
of the fhoots, appearing firlt like fmall 
buds, which increafe gradually in fize 
till July, Augutt,and September, when 
they arrive at full growth, are large, 
fomewhat pear-fhaped, and as it ap- 
proaches to ripenefs, the fkin changes 
gradually from a greenifh to blueifh, 
purplifh, blackifh, whitifh, or yellow 
colours, in different varieties, full of 
a purpiifh, reddifh, whitifh, or yellow 
pulp, becomes very foft, juicy, and ex- 
tremely rich and lufcious. 

The principal varieties of this fruit 
are :— 

CcmmonFig. Alargeoblongifh,dark, 
purple-blue fruit; the tree a great 
bearer, and ripens in great perfection 
in Auguft, either on ftandards or walls. 

Brovin or Chefnut Fig. A larce glo- 
bular, fhortifh, chefnut-coloured fruit, 
having a purplifh delicious pulp, ripen 
in July and in Augult. 

Black Ifchia Fig. A middle- fized, 
fhortifh, flat-crowned, blackifh fruit, 
having bright pulp ; ripe the middle 
of Auguft. 

Green Ifchia Fig. A large oblong, 
globular-headed, greenifh fruit, flight- 
ly ftained through by the pulp to a 
reddifh brown colour; ripe the end of 
Auguft. 

Brtivn Ifchia Fig. A fmall pyrami- 
dal, brownifh, yellow fruit, having a 
purplifh very rich pulp ; ripe in Au- 
guft and September. 

Malta Fig, A fmall, flat - topped, 
brown fruit; ripe the middle of Au- 
guft and September. 

Round Brown Naples Fig. A globu- 
lar, middle-fized, light-brown fruit, 
with brownifh pulp j ripe the end of 
Auguft. 



Long Brotvn Naples Fig. A long, 
dark-brown fruit, having a reddifh 
pulp; ripe in September. 

Great Blue Fig. A largifh blue fruit, 
having a fine red pulp. 

Black Genoa Fig. A large, pear-fha- 
ped, black-coloured fruit, and bright 
red pulp; ripe in Augult. 

Divided - leafed Frg-tree, having the 
leaves deeply divided into many nar- 
row fegments, valuable principally for 
the fhrubbery for the variety of its 
leaves. 

There are many other varieties, but 
it is unneceflary to recount them, fome 
of them being nearly alike, and many 
of them will not ripen perfectly in our 
gardens. 

Molt of the above varieties of figs 
will bear plentifully againlt walls of a 
fouth, eaft, or welt afpedt, and will 
alfo bear very well in efpaliers ; they 
will likewife, in fine dry fummers, 
produce tolerable good crops on ftand- 
ards, in a full expofure, either as full 
ftandards, half- ftandards, or dwarfs, 
and fometimes produce greater crops 
of fruit than thole trained againft walls. 
All the varieties of th'efe trees prof- 
per in any common foil of a garden, 
prepared by common digging, or 
trenching one or two fpades deep. 

They may be planted at fifteen or 
twenty feet diltance, againft walls and 
efpaliers ; and as ftandards, at any dif- 
tance not lefs than fifteen feet from one 
another. 

The propagation of fig-trees is ef- 
fected with great eafe three different 
ways, viz. by fuckers arifing from the 
root, by layers, and by cuttings. 

Conlidered as wall and efpalier trees, 
they fhould be allowed a funny fitua- 
tion, being neceffary to forward the 
ripening of the fruit, and promote a 
rich flavour. They ripen earlieft in a 
full fouth expofure, but they will alfo 
fucceed very well in an ealt and weft 
afpedt ; and as to distance, fifteen or 
twenty feet is necefTai y ; againft a high 
wall the former diltance is fufficient, 
but if they are rather low, twenty feet 
fhould be allowed. 

With refpect to pruning, two prin- 
cipal dreffings is requifite annually, to 
thofe againft walls.. &c. that is, a fum- 
mer and winter pruning and training. 
Summer dreffing. — The trees com- 
monly produce great numbers of young 
fhoots every fummer, frequently many 
U u % more 



F I G 



FIG 



more than are neceffary; fome of the 
moft irregular and ill-placed fhould be 
taken off, and the reft trained in clofe, 
and at full length for next year's bear- 
ing, that, by this regulation, the fun 
and air may be more effectually ad- 
mitted, to promote the free growth 
and regular ripening of the fruit, the 
main object. June, July, and Auguft 
are the months forthis workof fummer 
dreffing, obferving, that in performing 
the operation, to take off only fuch 
fhoots as are very irregular, and fuch as 
cannot be poffibly trained in ; for in 
thefe trees, it is proper to retain in 
fummer, when practicable, three times 
more than may feem neceffary for the 
winter or fpring training, becaufe the 
fhoots, being rather of a fucculent 
pithy nature, many of them are often 
killed in winter ; fo that, by referving 
them all till the general pruning in 
fpring, theie may be a fufficiency ef- 
cape to chufe from, to furnifh the tree, 
and if more than neceffary, they are 
eafily cut out; therefore, in this dref- 
fing, take off principally only the fore- 
right and other very irregular and evi- 
dently ufelefs fhoots, rubbing or cut- 
ting them off quite clofe ; let the others 
be trained to the wall or efpalier, be- 
tween the main branches at full length, 
ftill continuing them fo, as they ad- 
vance. 

Obferve, however, in the fummer 
dreffing, that if there is any great want 
of wood in any part, you may in June 
pinch or top any contiguous young 
fhoots, whereby it will furnifh a fup- 
ply of collaterals the fame feafon, to 
fupply the vacancies. 

If the above operation of fummer 
dreffing is begun early, before the 
.fhoots become woody, the redunlant 
young wood may be rubbed off with- 
out employing a knife. 

Winter, or general pruning. — Ha- 
ving obfcrved above, that many of the 
young branches of Fig-trees are liable 
to be more or lefs damaged in fevere 
winters ; in confluence thereof, it is 
advifeable to defer the general pruning 
till fpring, referving till then all the 
fhoots retained in the fummer dreffing, 
and out of the whole, enough may 
efcape the froft for your purpofe ; and, 
if more than enough, the better, there 
will be the more to chufe from ; but 
if the general pruning was performed 
in autumn, or early in winter, and no 



more fhoots left than what are juft ne- 
ceffary to furnifh the wall or efpalier, 
and many of thefe fhould be deftroyed 
by the inclemency of the weather, 
there is no referve left to fupply the 
deficiencies ; we therefore advife the 
general pruning to be deferred till Fe- 
bruary or March. 

This work of winter-pruning con- 
fifts of regulating the branches in ge- 
neral, old and young, taking out crow- 
ding and naked old branches, thinning 
and felecling the proper fupply of 
young fhcots, cutting out all weak and 
ill-ripened ones, and all dead wood. 

With refped to the regulation of the 
principal branches, thrre fhould be a- 
bout eight or ten inches diftant, that 
where they have been trained confide- 
rably clofer, they fhould now be thin- 
ned, and the contiguous ones all un- 
nailed, that the whole may be trained 
regularly at the proper diitance ; at the 
fame time examine if there are any old 
naked branches, i. e. fuch as have ad- 
vanced a conliderable length, without 
furnifhing hardly any proper bearing 
fhoots, or young branches furnifhed 
with fuch ; and that, provided there 
is proper young wood favourably fitu- 
ated to fupply their place, fuch old 
naked branches fhould be occalionally 
cutout at this pruning, to the place 
from whence they proceed, or at leaft 
down to the firft belt young fhoot or 
branch, cutting them quite clofe, ne- 
ver leaving any ftump.fo train the pro- 
per branches and fhoots in its ftead ; 
having particular attention, that every 
branch terminates in a young fhoot, 
either anting immediately from its ex- 
tremity, or in default thereof, or that 
the end of the extreme fhoot is dead, 
or that the branch is too long for its 
allotted fpace, it may be fhortened to 
the next firft, fecond, or third good 
fhoots below, if any, as fhall feem con- 
venient, leaving each fhoot at full 
length, unlefs its end is dead, when it 
muft confequently be cut down to the 
live wood. 

From the principal branches pafs to 
the fupply of young wood, produced 
and trained in the preceding fummer, 
which, if they have efcaped the froft, 
there will be probably many more than 
are neceffary now to be retained ; and 
keeping in view that they are the only 
bearers, and a proper fupply muft be 
trained now for the next fummer's 
fruit ; 



F I G 



F I G 



fruit '. every branch muft not only ter-* 
minate in one at full length, by the 
rules elucidated above, but collateral 
ones fhould alio be here and there re- 
tained, fome towards the bottom of 
the branches, others nearer the mid- 
dle, and fome more towards the ex- 
treme parts, &c. advancing at proper 
diftance one after another, as it were 
in fuccefiive order, between the prin- 
cipal branches; whereby, befides the 
fupply of fruit they will thus furniih 
in every part, you will alto have your 
wall or efpalier fo regularly filled with 
advancing young branches, that as old 
branches become naked, or tco exten- 
five for the fpace of walling or efpalfer 
allotted, as may be the cafe in fome 
part or other of the tree every feafon, 
there is always a refource of thefe 
young branches coming up gradually 
to fucceed them ; therefore, at every 
general winter or fpring pruning, feleft 
in the different parts of the tree, as a- 
bove, a proper fupply of the beft 
(hoots, fuch as are robuft, and their 
buds near together, and arilefrom the 
upper or under fides of the branches, 
convenient for training in, at the fame 
time cutting off all long foreright, and 
other ill-placed ones, and all others 
however good, that are redundant or 
fuperfluous, cutting every thing quite 
clofe to the furface of the branches, 
leaving all the felecled fhoots at full 
length, where practicable, for the rea- 
fons already affigned ; never fhorten- 
ing any only in cafe of dead parts, or 
want of an immediate further fupply 
of fhoots in any part to fill a vacancy. 

Having therefore finifhed this gene- 
ral pruning, let all the branches and 
fhoots be faftet.ed in regular order to 
the wall or efpalier, each at full length, 
and as ftraighf as poffible, preferving 
all the main branches eight or ten in- 
ches diftant. 

Standard Fig-trees, whether dwarfs 
or half or full flandards, after being 
trained to their proper form, may be 
planted either in the borders or open 
quarters of the kitchen garden, or in 
pleafure-ground, detached from other 
trees, and not nearer than fifteen or 
twenty feet to each other. 

As to culture, thofe in flandards re- 
quire very little training or pruning; 
all that is neceffary, is only taking out 
any very irregular branch, or when 
their general branches are too much 



crowded, to thin them difcretionally, 
taking out the worft and moft irregu- 
lar growing ; obferving alfo the fame 
of the young fhoots, where they are 
greatly crowded, thin out fome of the 
ill-placed ones, and fuch as are weak 
and ill-ripened, obferving, that the 
fhoots and branches are always to be 
left entire, except in cafes exhibited 
in the wall and efpalier culture, as that 
of cutting off the dead ends of fhoots, 
&c. and thus they will often bear plen- 
tifully, and ripen their fruit frequent- 
ly in as. great perfection as againlt 
walls. 

The following tender fpecies of Fi- 
cus are preferved in fome of our hot- 
houfes, viz. by way of curiofity. 

Sacred Fig, or Indian God-tree. Ficus 
with a woody Item, branching twenty 
or thirty feet high, heart-fhaped entire 
leaves, ending in long acute points. 

This is held in great veneration in 
India, where it is called the reiigious 
tree. 

Sycamore and Mulberry -leaved Egyptian 
Fig-tree. Ficus with a robuft item, 
branching twenty or thirty feet high, 
and large, roundifh, heart-fhaped, en- 
tire leaves. 

Bengal Fig-tree. Ficus with feveral 
ftems, dividing into many implicated 
branches, rifing twenty or thirty feet 
high, ftriking root from their lower 
parts, with large, oval, obtufe, entire 
leaves. 

Long- leaved India Fig. Ficus with a 
robult Item, branching twenty or thir- 
ty feet high, and long, fpear-fhaped, 
entire leaves. 

Dwarf Indian Fig. Ficus with trail- 
ing rooting llalks and branches, and 
oval, acute-pointed, entire leaves. 

All thefe fpecies are natives of hot 
countries, where moft of them form 
large trees, but in our ftoves appear 
as fhrubs,and their fruit is of no value. 

To preferve them here they mull be 
kept in pots and retained in the /tove. 
Their propagation is by cuttings, in 
fumtner, planted in pots of light fandy 
earth, and plunged in the bark-bed. 

IndianYic, [Opuntia.] Prickly. pear. 
This is found growing naturally on the 
fides cf the roads about Naples, Sicily, 
and Spain, and has long been intro- 
duced into thegardensin England ; the 
joints or branches are oval or round- 
ifh, and have fmall leaves coming out 



F I G 



F I G 



knots on their furface, which fall off 
In a fhort time ; and at thefe knots are 
three or four fhort briftly fpikes, which 
do not appear, unlefs clofely viewed ; 
but on being handled, they enter the 
flefh, and feparate from the plants, fo 
»re t r oubkfome, and often difficult to 
get out. It produces flowers and an 
<jblorg fruit, whofe fkin or cover is fet 
v.ith fmall fpikes in clufters; the in- 
side is flefhy, of a red or purple colour, 
In which are lodged many black feeds. 
It flowers in July and Auguft; but 
unlefs the feafon is very warm, it will 
no( ripen its feeds in England. 

There are feveral other fpeeiss of this 
plant found in the wanner parts of A- 
merica and the Weft Indies, one of 
which is the Cochineal Opuntia, which 
is found in Jamaica, as well as in New 
Spain. They may be all propagated 
by cutting offthe branches at thejoints 
during any of the fummer months, 
which fhould be laid in a warm dry 
place for a fortnight, that the wound- 
ed part may be healed over, otherwife 
they will iot with the moifture which 
they imbibe at that part, as is the cafe 
wih mcft other fucculent plants. The 
foil in which thefe plants muft. be 
planted, fhould be compofed after the 
following manner, viz. one-third of 
Jight frefh earth from a pafture, a third 
part fea fand, and the other part fhould 
be one-half rotten tan, and the other 
half lime rubbifn ; thefe fhould be well 
mixed, and laid in a heap three or four 
months before it is ufed, obferving to 
turn it over at leaft once a month, that 
the feveral parts may be well united ; 
then you fhould pafs it through a rough' 
fcreen, in order to feparate the largeft 
ftones and clods, but by no means fift 
it too fine, which is a very common 
fault ; then you fhouid referve fome of 
the fmaller (tones and rubbifh to lay at 
the bottom of the pots, in order to 
keep an open paffage for the moifture 
to drain off; which is what muft be 
obferved for all fucculent plant? ; for 
if the moilture be detained in the pots, 
it will rot their roots, and deftroy 
the planta. 

When you plant any of the branches 
ef thefe plants, you fhould plunge the 
pots into a moderate hot-bed, which 
will greatly facilitate their taking root. 
.You fhould alfo refrefh them now and 
then with a little water, but be very 
careful not to let them have toe much, 



or be too often watered, efpecially be- 
fore they are rooted. When the plants 
begin to fhoot, you muft give them a 
large fhare of air, by raifing the glaffes, 
otherwife they will draw up fo weak 
as not to be able to fupport them- 
felves; and after they have taken 
ftrong root, you fhould inure them to 
the air by degrees, and then remove 
them into the ftove, where they fhould 
remain, placing them near the glaffes, 
which fhould always be opened in 
warm weather, fo that they may have 
the advantage of a free air, and yet be 
protected from wet and cold. 

During the fummer feafon, thefe 
plants will require to be often refrefh- 
ed with water, but it mult not be gi- 
ven to them in large quantities, left it 
rot them ; and in winter this fhould be 
proportioned to the warmth of the 
ftove ; for if the air be kept very warm, 
they will require to be often refrefhed, 
otherwife their branches will fhrink ; 
but if the houfe be kept in a moderate 
degree of warmth, they fhould have 
but little water, for moifture at thai 
feafon will rot them very foon. 

The heat in which thefe plants 
thrive belt, is the temperate point, as 
marked on botanical thermometers ; 
for if they are kept too warm in win- 
ter, it caufes their moots to be very 
tender, weak, and unfightly. Thofe 
forts which are inclinable to grow up- 
right, fhould have their branches fup- 
ported with ftakes, otherwife their 
weight is fo great as to break them 
down. 

Infernal Fie, [Argemoni.] Devil's 
Fig 5 prickly poppy. An annual plant, 
common in the Weft-Indies, eafily 
propagated by fowing the feeds in the 
fpring. 

FIGS. Spungy excrefcences, which 
moft commonly grow out on the feet 
of fuch horfes as are high and hollow, 
with large ftefhy heels ; they are caufed 
by all the common accidents that hap- 
pen to the feet, as furbating, foun- 
dring, &c. and oftentimes they are the 
confequence of a long-continued gour- 
dinefs in the legs and patterns. Their 
feat is, for the mofl part, at the top 
or fide of the frufh; but when they 
are fuffered to grow old, or are dried 
up with ftrong ointments, they take 
another courfe, and fpread to the cor- 
ner of the heel. They are, as moft o- 
ther excrefcences of that kind, bred 

and 



FIG 



F I R 



and nourifhed of the fame matter which 
fuftains and nourifhes the finewy and 
nerv6us parts, and are only to be cu- 
red by extirpation. 

Therefore, if the Figs be on the fide 
•f the frufh, pare away fo much of the 
roof as may give room to reach the fore 
with a fleam or a launcet, then cut the 
foal about the fig, and take them clean 
out, avoiding, as much as poffible, to 
wound the large blood -veffels. Let 
your firft dreffing be made of dry hurds 
to flop the bleeding ; two or three days 
thereafter remove your dreffing ; and 
ifanypartof the excrefcence be left, 
you may deftroy it by applying Egyp- 
tiaeum, fpread on bolfters or pledgits 
of hurds, mixing with every ounce of 
the faid ointment half a dram of arfe- 
nic ©r corrofive fubiimate, enlarging 
or diminifhing the quantity of the lat- 
ter as you find your horfe able to bear 
it, or the circumftances of the fore 
may require ; and then heal up the fore 
with a good digeftive and fpirituous 
application. 

But if the fig has its infertion into 
the finewy or griftley fubftances in 
thofe parts, you mull take up the fosl ; 
and if any part of the griftle be cor- 
rupted, you may cut it off with a ra- 
zor, or other fharp instrument. If the 
bone be ulcerated and carious, you 
may touch it with a hot iron, and then 
drefs it with pledgits dipped in a tinc- 
ture of myrrh, aloes, and frankincenfe, 
and alfo with warm turpentine and 
honey of rofes, until the bone is co- 
vered ; always heal up the fore with 
fome good digeftive. 

FIG-MARYGOLD. SeeFicoiDEs 

F1GWORT, [Scrojjhularia.] This 
plant grows naturally in woods, and 
under hedges in moft parts of England, 
fo is feldom admitted into gardens. It 
has 3 fpreading root, compofed of 
many knobs, from which arife feveral 
four-cornered ftalks near three feet 
high, garnifhed with heart - fhaped 
leaves, fawed on their edges ; they are 
placed by pairs, of a dark-green, or 
brownifh colour on their upper fide, 
but pate on their under, having an o- 
dour of elder. The flowers are pro- 
duced in fmall clutters from the fides 
of the flalks oppofite, forming a kind 
of loofe fpike to the top ; they are of 
one petal, of a dark purple colour, 
fhaped almoft like a lip flower ; the 
upper lip or creti being a little arched, 



the two fide fegments fpread open, and 
the under fegment is recurved. Thefe 
are fucceeded by roundilh capfules, 
ending in acute points, having two ceils 
filled with fmall feeds. This w^s for- 
merly efteemed for fcrophulous com- 
plaints, but is now difregaided. 

There are fixteen other forts intro- 
duced into the botanic gardens from 
different parts of Europe and America, 
and are all propagated by fowing the 
feeds in the fpring. 

FILBERT, [Corylu:.] Nut-tree. The 
fpecies are ; 1, The common hazel- 
nut; the common wood-nut, with a 
red (kin ; the large clutter wood-nut j 
the cob-nut, remarkable for its fize j 
the long nut, and the Barcelona or S; a- 
nifh nut. 2. The filbert, white and 
red fkinned. 3. The dwarf Byzantine 
nut. 

All the forts are hardy, and will 
grow in almoft any fuuation and foil, 
and are eafily propagated by nuts, lay- 
ers, or fuckers. 

FILLER, or Thill er Horfe; that 
faftened immediately to the cart, and 
which fupports the fhafts. 

FILLEY. A female or mare colt. 

FIMBLE HEMP. Early ripe hemp. 

FINE BENT, [Agreftis CafiilLris.] 
A fine fpecies of bent grafs, found in 
many of the hilly parts of the king- 
dom. See Grass, 

FINOCHIA. Azorian Fennel. See 
Fennel. 

FiRE-BLAST. A difeafe to which 
hops are fubjecl. 

FIRE- BOTE. A quantity of fuel. 

FIRING. An operation often per- 
formed on different parts of a horfe. It 
is done in the following manner:— » 
when the firing-iron is red hot, the far- 
rier applies it to the thinneft part of the 
horfe's fkin, in one or more places, 
according to the nature of the difeafe. 

Firing, or cauterizing, is often ne- 
ceffary, after (trains, and other acci- 
dents, which may occafion a long con- 
tinued'weakriefs, or where there is a 
fullnefs, and the part is grown hard 
and callous, efpecially about the joints, 
finews, and nervous parts, thofe parts 
being compofed of an infinite number 
of fibres and nervous threads, which 
lie to ck h r, that nothing but 

what is pf the molt powerful nature is 
fufficient to relieve them when ob- 
(trucled. This is performed, in the 
moft effectual manner, by burning the 
outfide, 



F I R 



F I R 



♦utfide, and giving vent to the incloied furface fmooth and level, prevents the 

matter to difcharge itfelf ; and fome- feeds from being irregularly fcattered 

times proves beneficial, when all other in drawing on the earth with the rake, 

helps have been found ineffectual. and is, in feveral other refpecls, of ad- 

FIRING-IRON. A piece of iron a- vantage, 
bout a foot long, one end of which is As thefe plants bring up the hulk of 

made fiat, and forged like a knile, the the feed on their tops, the fmall birds, 

back of it being half an inch thick, who are very fond of them, will de- 

and the edge about the eighth of an ftroy all, or the greateft part, if they 

inch. are not guarded againft. Procure a 

FIR-TREE, [Abiei.~] The fpecies parcel of old fiftiing-nets, and fpread 
are; i. The Norway, or fpruce Fir- them over the beds, fupported by cut- 
tree; 2. The blackAmerican fpruce Fir- tings of copfe-wood,or other prunings 
tree; 3. The white American fpruce of trees, laid acrofs ftakes ; and thole 
Fir-tree; 4. The filver Fir-tree; 5. nets are to be purchafed at any fea- 
The Balm of Gilead Fir-tree; 6. The port town for a mere trifle. 
Hemlock fpruce Fir-tree. In the autumn after fowing, go over 

About the middle of March, fow your beds, and, with your fingers, care- 

the firft, fecond, and third forts on fully pick off all moffy hard-crufted 

beds, in a fhady, well-ftieltered border, particles, replacing them with an equal 

but much thinner than the pines, as quantity of the richeft beft prepared 
they are to remain two years. foil; over which fift fome chaff, or ra- 

The three other forts do not rife by a ther faw-duft that has lain fome time 
fortnight, at leaft, fo foon as the above and loll its fiery quality. This will 
do; and as they make very little pro- keep the plants warm, and prevent the 
grefs the firft year, all art and inr'uftry ground from fwelling with the f roll, 
fhould be ufed to promote their growth which, if it does, is apt to fpew them 
as much as poffible, otherwife many up : it will likewife be necefTary, in 



of them will be fpewed out of the 
ground, and the weaker plants entire- 
ly killed, if the following winter is fe- 
vere. The beft fecurity, therefore, a- 



hard froft or violent rains, to throw a 
mat over the two laft kinds, but re- 
gularly uncover them in mild weather. 
In the fucceeding fpring, and during 



gainft all thefe common accidents be- the months of May and June, the 
ing to fow early, let them be fown a plants will ftill be much invigorated 
fortnight fooner than the three prece- by frequent waterings, and in autumn 
ding kinds, that is, by the beginning let the beds be treated as in the former; 
of March, the weather permitting, for tho' the feedlings are from this time 
The ground for the feeds of thefe till fpring in a ftate of reft, and can, 
plants cannot be too rich a natural foil, from no culture be affifted in their 
or too finely prepared ; it muft alfo be growth till then, yet the mufty parts 
loofe and dry, and, if not of that qua- contracted on the furface, will, by the 
lity originally, it muft be rendered winter rains, be wafhed into the earth, 
fo, by mixing it with fand, and eleva- which it will contaminate, and corn- 
ting the beds fix or fevcn inches above municate difeafes to the plants, from 
the alleys, to draw away the moifture. which they will (lowly recover. This 
The Balm of Cilead, and Hemlock circumftance, though in general little 
Spruce, are a little tenderer at firft attended to, is yet of the greateft im- 
than the other forts, and will be much portance to all feedling trees, 
aided in their growth, if the beds are From the feed-bed, at two years old, 
hooped over, and covered with mats in the fpring when their buds begin to 
for five or fix weeks after the plants fwell, thefe plants may be removed, 
appear above ground, both in the mid- Plant them in rows fifteen inches a- 



die of the day when the fun is warm, 
and at night when the air is cold or 
frofiy ; and, during that time, they 



funder, and fix orfeven inches diftant 
in the rows. 

Thefe plants, being now four years 



will require a gentle watering every old, muft be tranfplanted to another 
fecond evening when it does not rain, fpot of good land, and placed in rows 
At fowing all the kinds of Firs, n«- two feet and a half afunder, and four- 
gleet not to clap over tire beds with teen or fixteen inches diftant in the 
the back of a fpade. This makes the row } water them at planting, and 

continue 



F I R 



- F L 



continue It, once a week, five or fix 
times, when it does not rain, keeping 
the ground clear of weeds in fum .. r, 
and mellow by autumn and fpring dig- 
ging, in which fituation they may re- 
main three years. 

From thence remove them again in 
spring at the ufual time, fnortening 
their ftraggiing roots moderately, and 
plant them in rows four feet afunder, 
and two feet in the row, to remain three 
years longer. 

If required larger, remove them a- 
gain, and plant them at fix feet afun- 
der every way, to remain two, but net 
above three years more ; by which 
time, in good land, and under the cul- 
ture here directed, the three ficil-merv- 
tioned kinds will be from fourteen to 
fixteen, and the Silver Fir from ten to 
twelve feet high. Thus managed, tt)efe 
trees will rife with fuch abundant balls 
of earth about their roots, as will pre- 
vent their receiving the leafc injmy at 
removal, nor will their future growth 
be in the fmalleft degree retarded by it. 
The three firft- mentioned Spruce 
Firs will grow tolerably well in dry, 
gravelly, or rocky ground, but much 
more affect that which is deep, where, 
though, very coarfe, and barren in the 
production of vegetables, they will 
grow freely. 

The Silver Fir, the moil magnificent 
tree of all the ever green tribe that cur 
climate produces in full perfection, it 
is in vain to plant in hot, dry, or rocky 
situations, where they commonly not 
only lofe their top fhoots,but their un- 
der branches foon become ragged, and, 
in place of that lively fhining verdure 
peculiar to them in a foil they affect, 
they become of a pale languid hue. 

Thefe trees, like' the other more 
common forts intc-ricred for timber on- 
ly, fhouid not, as they commonly are, 
be planted clofe together in thickets, 
but require a free circulation of air, 
otherwife their intermingled branches 
will deftroy one another. 

The Balm of Gilead Fir never grows 
to a large fize in this country. It le- 
quires a generous deep-feeding foil, 
and fheltered fituation, to which, from 
its Angular beauty and elegance, it is 
juflly unified, and it claims our culture 
and care. 

The Hemlock Spruce Fir is a pretty 
plant, but delicate,- and, to fucceed well 
with us, muft have a good foil, and 
Vol. I. 



warm fituation. It will always be im- 
proved by tying its leading fhoot to a 
flake annually as it advances. 
Scotch Fir. See Pine. 
FISTULA, A de.p narrow ulcer ; 
lay it open with a knife, but cut away 
no flefh, and afterwards diets it with 
ointment of gum elemi, bafilicon, &c. 
FISH-GLUE, [Itc/:t/:yocol/a.] Ifin- 
glafs. 

FISTIC-NUT, \_Nux Piftochia.] The 
tree which produces it grows fponta- 
neoufly in Perfia, Arabia, and ftveral 
iflands of the Archipelago ; it bears 
likewife the cold of our own climate, 
fo as to have produced fiuit not infe- 
rior to that which we receive from a- 
broad. Piftachio-nuts have a pleafant, 
fwtet, unctuous tafte, refembling that 
of almonds. They are ranked amongft 
the analeptics, and are by fome much 
ellccmed In certain weaknefles, and in 
emaciated habits. 

FITCHES. See V ET ch. 
FIVE-LEAVED-GRASS. Cinque- 
foil. See Cinquefoil. 
FLAG. See Iris. 
Siveet-fcented Flag, \_Acorm, Calamus 
Aromaticus,~\ This flag refembles, as 
to its leives, the common iris, but in 
other refpedts differs greatly from it. 
The (talk grows at a little diftance 
from the leaves 5 the lower half, up to 
where the flowers come forth, is round- 
ifh ; the part above this broad like the 
other leaves ; the flowers are very 
final], whitifh. and fland in a kind of 
head about the fize of the finger. This 
plant grows plentifully in rivulets and 
marfhy places, about Norwich and o- 
ther parts of this ifland ; in the canals 
of Holland ; in Switzerland, and in 
other countries of Europe. The fhops 
have been fupplied from the Levant 
with dried roots, which are not fupe- 
rior, if equal, to thofe of our own 
growth. 

The root of acorus is full of joints, 
crooked, fomewhatfl.ittei! on the fides, 
internally of a white colour, and ioofe 
fpongy texture. Its fmell is flrong ; 
the tafte warm, acrid, bitterifh, and 
aromatic ; both the fmell and tafte are 
improved by exfkeation. This root is 
generally looked upon as a carminative 
and ffomachic m dicine, and as fuch is 
fonietimes made ufe of in practice. I» 
i- f.i.i, by Haller, to be fuperior in aro- 
matic flavour to. any other vegetable 
that is produced in thefe northern cli- 
X x matei : 



FLA 



FLA 



mates : fuch as we have had an oppor- 
tunity of examining fell far fhort, in 
this refpedt, of many of our common 
plants. There is fomething manifestly 
unpleafant in its flavour, inclining, as 
Geoffroy juftly obferves, to that of 
leeks or garlic ; nor have our experi- 
ments di (covered any preparation of it 
that was truly grateful : the moft agree- 
able is a preferve made as candied 
eryngo-root. In this form it is faid to 
be employed at Constantinople, as a 
prefervative againft epidemic difeafes. 
The leaves of this plant have a fweet 
fragrant fmell, more agreeable, though 
weaker, than that of the roots. 

Corn Flag, [Gladiolus.] This grows 
naturally in corn-fields, and bt fides the 
common Englifh fort, there are three or 
four other kinds kept in the gardens 
for variety. They are all propagated 
by off-fets from the root. 

Tellhiu JVate r F l a g . BaStard acorus. 

This grows common in watery places. 

FLAIL. A well-known implement 

of hufbandry, ufed in threfhing all forts 

of corn. 

FLANK. That part of a quadruped 
near the hinder thigh. 

FLAX, [Linum.] The fpecies are 
fourteen in number ; but the only three 
tor thepurpofes of culture arethe com- 
mon Flax, the Siberian perennial Flax, 
and the biennial or Iltrian Flax. 

The firft fort is an annual plant. Its 
root is fmall and fibrous, and perifhes 
as foon as the feed is ripened, theftalk 
is round and fmooth, and it rifes to 
three or four foot in height. The leaves 
are fmall and narrow, and of a pale 
green. The ftalk grows Strait and tin- 
gle to the top, where ic divides into 
three or four little branches, and on 
thefe grow the flowers, and after them 
the fruit, containing feveral feeds. The 
flowers are large and blue, fo that 
when the plant is in flower a whole 
field together, it makes a very beauti- 
iul appearance. 

Good feed may be obtained from 
feedfmen of reputation in London, im- 
ported from the Levant, Flanders, &c. 
As to the choice of foil, a rich loam 
is by much the molt proper for flax, 
and inftead of following almoft any o- 
ther crop, though with the beft dref- 
fings, to prepare for it, it is much the 
beft to fow it on new broke up ground. 
There are two methods of fowing 
flax, by broad-caft and drill, the latter 
•f which we prefer. 



The great damage done to flax In Its 
growth is by weeds ; and thefe can no 
way be deftroyed fo perfectly as by the 
horle-hoeing method. The reafon that 
weeds do fo much damage to flax is, 
that in its tuft fhoots it is for fome 
time very weak. In the common me- 
thods of hufbandry the weeds rife with 
it, and they being ftrong, and the flax 
weak, they get the better of it ; rob it 
of its nourishment, ftunt it in its 
growth, and it never recovers. 

In the common way of fowing by 
hand, three bufhels of feed are ufually 
allowed to an acre, when it is the 
frefh eaftern feed, and all very fine and 
full, half a bufhel lefs will do ; in the 
drill way, one bufhel is enough for an 
acre, and the Stalks rife more nume- 
rous, and grow tenderer and finer for 
it. 

As foon as the feed is in the ground, 
let the hufbandman prepare for hoeing. 
He is not fo much to mind the moot- 
ing of the flax, as the rifing of the 
weeds ; and this is a feafon when they 
will be very fpeedy and very numerous. 
The young crop fhould have all the 
nourifhment the land affords, there- 
fore thefe are to be deftroyed in the 
very a<ft of rifing. Let the intervals be 
turned up with the hoe- plough, upon 
the firft appearance of any weeds, and 
this will anfwer feveral excellent pur- 
pofes ; it will destroy thofe weeds, and 
at the fame time prepare the earth of 
the intervals, to admit the roots of the 
flax freely, and they will be well fet- 
tled in it in the midft of their proper 
nourishment, before any fecond crop 
of weeds can rife. 

As foon as the flax has got a little 
height, let hoers be fent in with hand- 
hoes to clear away the partitions ; and 
thus the growth will have all the nou- 
rifliment the earth can afford for its 
firft fhoot, which will be vaflly Stronger 
than it is to be obtained any other 
way. By thefe means the flax will get 
fuch a footing in the ground, before 
any other crop of weeds can rife, that 
it will be too ftrong for them. As they 
would have Starved the flax before, 
that will now Starve fuch of them as 
rife in the partitions, fo that it would 
do without any more hoeing there j 
however, there is no harm in repeating 
it by the hand hoe, in thofe fmall fpa- 
ces ; and as to the intervals, the huf- 
bandman is to keep a watchful eye 
upon 



PLA 



FLA 



upon them, and to repeat the horfe- 
hoeing as often as he fees any parcel 
of them rife, that would exhauft the 
ground, and tend to impoveiifh the 
crop. 

Thefe repeated horfe-hoeings are fo 
many frefh dreffings of the ground, fo 
that the crop has new benefit every 
time. No growth requires this affift- 
ance fo much as flax, therefore the 
horfe-hoeing hufbandry can never be 
more proper than for this fpecies ; and 
the encreafe in growth will very well 
pay the trouble and expence. 

The farmer has nothing to do but 
to watch its ripening, and to gather it. 
This, however, is an article on which 
he mult beftow a great deal of atten- 
tion. There is a peculiar period at 
which flax is fit to be gathered, and 
this muft be watched, and the oppor- 
tunity feized as foon as it offers ; all be- 
fore this being wrong, as well as after 
it, We (hall endeavour, as particularly 
as fuch a thing can admit of a defcrip- 
tion, to fettle the exact time. 

In the firft place it is to be confider- 
ed, that the ufe of flax is of a particu- 
lar kind. Other crops are railed for 
their feed or their roots, but this for 
the ftalk, which i» to be manufactured 
in a finguiar manner, and will yield to 
the operation better or worfe, accord- 
ing to the exact time at which it was 
pulled. 

In other kinds, the ripenefs of the 
feed, or the bignefs of the root, are the 
marks of their being fit for gathering, 
but in tliis it is the due condition of 
the ftalk. Thofe marks are viiible and 
obvious to the eye ; this is the more 
difficult to be known, and therefore it 
muft be watched the more narrowly. 

The farmer is to confider, that al- 
though the greateft part of his rlax is 
to be pulled for the (talk, it is proper 
to let fome (land for feed. 

This makes a different period of ga- 
thering ; for if the whole were to ltand 
till the feed was ripe, it would be of 
little worth. Therefore, let the owner 
fet off a part for (landing for feed, and 
let this be upon the edge of his ground 
that is belt defended from winds, and 
where there is molt fun. If there be 
a part open to the fouth, and backed 
by a good hedge, this is the place. Let 
him mark out by (takes what quantity 
he will have there for feed, and then 
watch the reft for ripening, only gi- 



ving directions to the pullers to fpare 
the feed parcel. This particular part 
is to (land till the feed veffel is quits 
dry, and ready to open, and the feeds, 
upon opening ir, are found to be full 
and firm. This degree of ripenefs is 
eafy enough known, fo there needs no 
great care on that head ; but before 
this, he mult look narrowly into the 
other. 

When the two ccnfiderations of feed 
and ftalk are thus feparated, they will 
be both better understood and better 
managed. The hufbandman is to let 
his feed quarter (land its time, but lie 
muft have an eye upon the other as it 
rifes to flower. 

In the common method of hufban- 
dry, the flax flowers irregularly in the 
fame field ; fome of the feed having 
been buried deeper, and fome fhal- 
lower, there has been more or lefs time 
required for their rifing ; and the fame 
difference is preferved in their coming 
to flower. Alfo fome of the feed lying 
fingle and at a diftance, and there be- 
ing heaps in other places from this ran- 
dom method of fowing, that alfo will 
make its lhare in the variation ; for 
fuch as (land fingle will flower a week 
before thofe which are in clutters, be- 
caufe of their having more (trength. 

From thefe different caufes, a field 
of flax fown by hand flowers very ir- 
regularly, fome plants fooner, others 
later; and this is a vaft difadvantage 
in a crop which fliould be pulled at one 
exact time, and that time determined 
only by the flowering. 

This affords one inftance, among 
many, why the drill hufbandry is much 
better than the common for the raifing 
of flax ; for in that method, all the 
feeds being let in at the fame depth, 
and difpofed with an even regularity, 
both the above mentioned occafions of 
the difference in coming to flower are 
prevented ; and it is a beautiful fight 
to look upon a field of this growth, 
raifed in this way, the whole crop be- 
ing of the fame form, and the fame 
height throughout their growth, and 
all buriting out into a celeftial bltieto- 
gether. There is nothing refembles the 
briglitnefs and beauty of fuch a crop 
in bloom, but a perfect clear fky in 
fummer. 

This is a very obvious mark, and 
this is the token for gathering. When 
the flax is raifed fingly for the manu- 

X a i facture, 



FLA 



FLA 



faiture, it is to be pulled as Icon as 
ever it is in full flower, the pioper 
tir.i. is before one flower falls. 

Let the owner therefore only watch 
I to bud j when that burfts, let him 
have his pullers ready, and as foon as 
all the plants ate in full flower, and 
there appears the firft mark of fading 
in any of them, let them be fent into 
the field. The mc- i there are of them 
the better, for the work would be to 
pull it all in one day if poflible. 

As they pull it up, they mull gather 
it into handfuls, and tying there toge- 
ther, they muft be fet up in the field 
at diftances one from another. In this 
condition they are to (land till they are 
thoroughly dry ; the fun and air foon 
do this perfectly, and they grow firm 
but not liarfh in the drying. 

As foon as perfectly dry, the hand- 
fuls are to be houfed, and they are 
then ready either for fale to the manu- 
facturers, or for the ufe of the owner 
if he will work them himfelf, by which 
lie may be very well affured he will get 
the greatefl profit. . 

When the flax has been well dried 



have been rated enough, if not, they 
muft lie a day or two longer, hut ufu- 
aliy, at that feafon oi the year, fix 
days are fufficient,fometi;nes itis done 
in rive. 

When taken out of the water, the 
bundles are to be fpread abroad and 
dried, and they will thus be prepared 
f»r tie braking, 'ibis is the fecond 
operation they go through, in order to 
being prepared for linen. This is per- 
formed by a particular inftrurnent 
made for that purpofe, and called a 
brake. It is notched at the end, or 
throughout, according to the various 
methods in different places,' and with 
this the thready part is feparated from 
the bark, and loofened. The method 
is to begin at the root, and go all the 
way up to the top. 

When the flax has been thoroughly 
broke by the brake, it hangs in threads 
and fcattered pieces, and is then ready 
for the third operation, which is the 
fwingling. This is a kind of beating, 
and is to be performed with an edged 
(tick, called for that re3fon a fwingle. 
This feparates the fibres more, and it 



after the pulling, the next operation always lays them more regularly, and 
is what is called rating of it. As to the by this the flax is prepared for the 



houfing the bundles, that is a matter 
merely of convenience. If every thing 
be prepared, and the hufbandman ma- 
nufacture it himfelf, he may take it di- 
rectly from the field to the water; if 



fourth operation, which is the beating. 
For this purpofe the fwingled flax is 
laid on a block, and laboured with a 
beetle, or it is put into a trough, and 
beat with a hammer,, and this beating 



otherwife it is houfed, to keep it out of is continued till the whole fubfiance of 

the way of harm. it is made foft and pliable. 

Rating off! x is fieepingit in water, When the flax has been fufiiciently 

in order toloofen its bark or rind. The beat, it is fit to be hackled or combed, 

thready part of the (talk is all that is to This is done femewhat in the mahHer 

be ufed, and thereto! e the firll thing to of combing of wool, what are ufed in 

be done is to feparate the rind from it, this cafe for flax being called hackles. 



that not being thready, or any way 
ufeful. 

Experience.fh.ews, that the beft man- 
ner of doing this is by foaking it in 
water, and that is the rating of flax. 
It is done thus : — They lay the bun- 
dles in a (hallow pond or ditch, dug 
for that purpofe, putting fome flight 



It is to be worked thoroughly thro' 
thefe, one after another, till all the 
fhort fluff is got out ; and all the long 
and fine fibres are made fmooth,' and 
lie evenly together in form cf fo many 
threads ; in tiii. condition it is fit to 
be (pun. 

This is the whole procefs in forming 



weight upon chern to keep them uivier the (talk of the flax, gathered at a pro- 

the water, and every other day they per degree of maturity, into thread, 

are to be turned. and thence into linen; the whole is 

When they have lain thus [fix days, very familiar, and can admit of 'no 

they are to be taken out, if the bark mif':nder(tanding. 

be. fufficitntly loofened. This is caiily Thofe who raife the flax for, the (talk 

known by rubbing one of the (talks : and feed both, have a neceffary opera- 

from the middle of the bunch I'etween tion which we have not yet named, 

the fingers : if the bark part tafily they becaufe in this practice we advife, alt 

that 



FLA 



F L E 



that is concerned in the flalk only, the 
feed being preferved in parcels kept tor 
that purpofe. 

This is called ripling, and it is thus 
done: — The flax being pulled when 
the feed begins to be brown, for that 
is the time according to this practice ; 
when the bundles have flood up feven 
or eight days, and are pretty well dii~ 
ed, they are to pafs through the rip- 
ple j this is a kind of combing of tlie 
ftalks. The ripples are made of wood, 
and have their teeth fo clofe, that w hen 
drawn over the flalk, they Hick at the 
heaps or feed veftels, and pull them off. 
When this is done, the bundles are to 
be put into the water, as has been di- 
rected already ; and as to thefe feeds 
not being yet altogether dry, they are 
to be laid by in an airy room till 
fpring, and when the whole is to be 
threfhed in the common way, to fepa- 
rate the feeds from the hulks. 

This operation, in fome degree, pre- 
pares the ftalks for rating: but it is 
not neceffary. According to our ad- 
vice, no regard is to be had to the feed 
of that flax that is raifed for manufac- 
turing ; and therefore the bundles, 
when they are moderately dried, are to 
beput into the water, where the leaves 
will fall oft" about the third day, and 
fometimes the ftalks will be ready for 
their firlt dreffing the day but one af- 
terwards, and fometimes the very day 
after. 

The time of taking them from the 
water, is one of the critical points in 
the managing and manufacturing of 
flax, it muft therefore be watched ac- 
cordingly. 

When the bark will part, and the 
threads' eafily feparate, it is fit for 
taking out, and that time fhould not 
be let flip. 

If this happen the third day, there 
is no occafion for any more rating, and 
if not in this condition on thefeventb, 
it' muft lie longer. We have given the 
common full time it is in preparing 
in this operation, but the condition of 
the flax is to guide the workman, not 
any particular number of days of lying. 

Flax feed yields to the prtfs a confi- 
derable quantity of oil ; and, boiled in 
water, a ftrcng mucilage : thefe are oc- 
cafionally made ufe of for the fame 
purpofe as other fubftances of that 
claf, ; and fometimes the feeds them- 
felv'es in emollient and maturating ca- 



taplasms. They have alfo been employ- 
ed in Afia, and, in times of fcarcity, in 
Europe, as food ; but are not agree- 
able, or in general wholefome. Tra- 
gus relates, that thofe who fed on thefe 
feeds in Zealand, had the hypochondres 
much diftended, and the face and other 
parts fwelled, in a very fhort time; 
and that not a few died of thefe com- 
plaints, ifcjo- a./!f0 t^sruA. 

Purging Flax, \L\num Catfiarthupt.] 
Mountain Flax. This is a fpecies of 
flax growing not above four or five in- 
ches high, found wild upon chalky 
hills, and in dry pafture grounds. Its 
virtue is expre/Ted in its title; an in- 
fufion in water or whey of a handful 
of frefh leaves, or a dram of them in 
fubftance when dried, are faid to purge 
without inconvenience. 

Toad 'Flax, \_Litiaria.~\ This grows 
wild upon banks and about the fides 
of fields. It is faid by fome to be a 
powerful diuretic ; whence it is named 
by Tragus, Herba Urinalis ; by others 
to be a ftrongcarthatic, infomuch that 
Brunfefilus has called it by a German 
name expreffing this quality, Schiefs- 
kraufc Experience fcarcely warrants 
either of thefe appellations ; nor does 
common practice take any notice of 
the plant. 

• There are feventeen different fpecies 
cultivated in the botanic gardens, and 
are all propagated by feeds. 

FLAX-WrED. Toad Flax. 

FLEABANE, [Ctmyxa.] Ths fpe- 
cies are; i. Common greater Fleabane ; 
2. Pyrenasan Fieabane ; 3. Shrubby 
Fleabane of Crete ; 4. Yellow tixe-like 
Fieabane. 

The fiift is a biennial plant, grow- 
ing naturally on dry places in feveral 
parts of England. The fecond is a na- 
tive of Italy, and preferved in botanic 
gardens for variety. The third and 
fourth forts require to be defended 
from the open air in a green-houfe, du- 
ring the cold months of the year. They 
are propagated by feeds and cuttings. 

African Fleabane, \Tarch:n\an- 
i/ius.] This plant grows naturally at 
the Cape of Good Hope, and alfo in 
India; it has a ftrong woody flalk, 
which ri.fes to the height of twenty 
feet, fending out many ligneous bran- 
ches at the top, gamifhed with leaves, 
which are in fhape like thofe of the 
broad-Ie:.ved fallow, having a downy 
furface like thofe of fage, and their 
under 



F L I 



F L • 



under fides are white ; thefe greatly re- 
ferable in fmell the rofemary leaves 
when bruifed. The flowers are pro- 
duced in fpikes at the extremity of the 
fhoots, which are of a dull purple co- 
lour, fo do not make any great appear- 
ance. The ufual time of its flowering 
is in autumn ; but they continue great 
part of winter, and are not fucceeded 
by feeds here. Thefe plants aiepre- 
ferved to make a variety in the ereen- 
houfe, during the winter feafon, by 
thole who are curious in collsfting of 
foreign plants. They retain their leaves 
all the year. 

It is too tender to live through the 
winter in the open air in England, but 
requires no artificial heat, there:ore 
may be placed in a common green- 
houfe with myrtles, oleanders, and 
other hardy exotic plants in winter, and 
in fummer may be expofed with them 
in the open air, and treated in the fame 
manner as they are. It may be propa- 
gated by cuttings. 

FLEAM. An instrument ufed by 
farriers, &c. to draw blood from ani- 
mals. 

FLEAWORT, [Pfyllium.] This is 
a fort of plantain, growing wild in the 
warmer climates, and fometimes met 
with in our gardens. It differs from 
the common plantains in having its 
ftalks branched, with leaves upon 
them ; hence it is named by Ray plan. 
tago caulifera. Thefe feeds have been 
ufually brought from the fouth of 
France ; they are final), and fuppofed 
to refemble in fhape a flea, whence the 
Englifli name of the plant. Thefe feeds 
have a naufeous, glutinous tafte : boil- 
ed in water, they yield a coniiderable 
quantity of mucilage, which is fome- 
times made ufe of in emollient glyfters 
and the like. Alpinus relates, that a- 
mong the Egyptians, this mucilage is 
exhibited in ardent fevers, and that if 
generally either loofens the belly, or 
promotes fweat. 

FLEAK. A hurdle ; a moveable 
gate, made of rods, &c. 

FLEECE. The quantity of wool 
ffiorn from one fheep. 

FLET-MILK. Skim-milk. 
FLIX. Down ; foft hair. 
FL1X-WEF.D, [Sophia Chirurgorum.'] 
This plant grows naturally in unculti- 
vated places, rifes to about a foot and 
a half high, garniihed with winged 
leaves, divided into many very narrow 



fegments. It.was formerly recommen- 
ded as a vulnerary, but is not now 
efteemed. 

FLOCK. A company of fheep or 
birds. 

FLOCK. Wool, as a flock bed. 

FLOOR. The bottom pavement of 
boards, or ftone, as a barn-floor, 

FLOR1FEROUS. Bearing flowers. 

FLOTE FESCUE GRASS. An ex- 
cellent grafs for cattle, growing in wa- 
tery places. 

The Flote fefcue affords excellent 
food for horfes. Mr. Stillingfleet, quo- 
ting a piece publifhed in the Amaen. 
Acad. vol. iii. entitled Platita Efcnlentae, 
takes notice, that the author of it fays, 
art. 90, " That the feeds of this grafs 
are gathered yearly in Poland, and 
from thence carried into Germany, and 
fometimes into Sweden, and fold un- 
der the name of manna feeds. Thefe 
are much ufed at the tables of the great, 
on account of their nourishing quality 
and agreeable tafte. 1 ' 

Our ingenious countryman, in his 
addition to this paffage, has the fol- 
lowing words: — 

" Mr. Dean, a very fenfible farmer 
at Rufcomb, in Berkfhire, affured me, 
that a field, always lying under water, 
of about four acres, that was occupied 
by his father when he was a boy, was 
covered by a kind of grafs that main- 
tained five farm-horfes in good heart, 
from April to the end of harveft, with- 
out giving them any other kind of food, 
and that it yielded more than they 
could eat. He, at my defrre, brought 
me fome of the grafs, which proved to 
be the Flote-fefcue, with a mixture of 
the marfh-bent. Whether this laft con- 
tributes much towards furnifhing fo 
good a pafture, I cannot fay. They 
both throw out roots at the joints of 
the ftalks, and therefore likely to grow 
to a great length. In the index of du- 
bious plants, at the end of Ray's Sy- 
nopfis, there is mention made of a 
grafs, under the name of gramen cani- 
numfupinum longijjimum, growing not far 
from Salifbury, twenty-four feet long. 
This muft, by its length, be a grafs 
with a creeping ftalk ; and that there 
is a grafs in Wiltfhire, growing in wa- 
tery meadows, fo valuable, that an acre 
of it lets from ten to twelve pounds, I 
have been informed by feveral perfons. 
Thefe circumftances incline me to 
think it muft be Flote-fefcue; but 
what- 



? L • 



FLO 



whatever grafs it be, it certainly muft 
deferve to be enquired after. 

" There is a clamminefs on the ear 
of the Flote-fefcue when the feeds are 
ripe, that taftes like honey, as I have 
often found ; and for this reafon, per- 
haps, they are called manna-feeds. 

" Linnaeus Flor. Suec. art. 95, fays, 
that the bran of this grafs will cure 
horfes troubled with bots, if kept from 
drinking for fome hours." So far the 
very ingenious Mr. Stillingfleet. 

From what has been faid above, we 
may conclude, that the Flote-fefcue is 
one of the beft graffes that we can cul- 
tivate for the ufe of our horfes, and the 
more efpecially, as if appears to thrive 
beft in wet, low meadows, wheremany 
other graffes would not grow. 

There are at Clatton-Lodge, in the 
county of EfTex, not far from Thorp, 
fome low meadows, which are every 
year flooded for months together, du- 
ring the winter feafon. Thefe meadows 
are covered with a grafs of a remark- 
able fattening quality ; for when old 
cows have been turned into them, 
though they were ever fo poor and low 
in flefh, they have, in a very fhort fpace 
of time, grown remarkably fat ; and 
when killed, their meat would appear 
as fine, and tafle as well, as that of 
any fleer or ox ; therefore it is reason- 
ably to be fuppofed, that the grafs 
growing in thefe meadows, is no other 
than that of the Flote-fefcue. See 
an account of a new kind of grafs in 
the Farmer's Magazine, vol. iii, page 
232, 259, 289, 290. 

FLOSCULOUS. Compofed of 
flowers. 

FLOTTEN. Skimmed, as milk. 

FLOWER. A flower is defined to 
be formed of all the parts of ft unifica- 
tion neceflary for the generation of all 
trees and plants, and confifls of the 
following principal parts. 

The Calix, empalement or cup ; the 
•uter green leaves immediately fur- 
rounding the corolla or petals. 

The Corolla, petals, or flower-leaves ; 
the fine-coloured leaves placed within 
the calix, and which immediately fur- 
round the llamina, &c. 

The Stamina, or male organs ; the 
flender thread-fhaped parts, fupport- 
ing the antherse. placed immediately 
within the coroila, and furround the 
pifljllutn. 



The PifliiluK, or female organs ; con- 
fifting of the germen, fly le, and ftigma, 
and are placed within the anthers, and 
commonly occupy the center of the 
flower. 

The Pericarpium, the fruit or feed- 
veffel, formad of the germen of the fe- 
male organ, and fucceeds to maturity 
after all the other parts of the flowec 
are decayed. 

The Semen, or feeds, lodged within 
the pericarpium, or in default thereof, 
in the bottom of the calix. 

But as many flowers have neither 
calix nor corolla, they are flill to be 
confidered as a flower, provided it is 
furnifhed with the antherae, or tops of 
the male organ, and the fligma or fum- 
mit of the flyle, the female organ, for 
the effence of a flower confifls in thefe 
two principal organs, antherae and 
ftigma. 

In many plants, however, we have 
not been able to difcover any refem- 
blance of flower or fruit, fuch as the 
ferns, moffes, mufhroom, &c. but it is 
probable they are all furnifhed with 
fimilar parts, although their minute- 
nefs, or concealed fituation within the 
plant, prevents any difcovery thereof. 

FLOWER-DE-LUCE. See Iris. 

Flower Gentle. See Amaranth. 

Flower -Fence. See Barb a does 
Flower-Fence. 

FturoCl'jck Flower. See Marvel 
of Peru. 

Sun Flower. See Sun-Flower. 

FLOWERACE. Store of flowers. 

FLOWER-GARDEN. A garden, 
principally fet apart for the cultivation 
of flowers. 

FLOWERET. A fmall flower. 

FLOWKWORT. The name of a 
plant. 

FLUE. A fmall pipe or funnel to a 
chimney. 

Flue. Down; foft fur. 

FLU ELL IN, [Elating.] Female 
Speedwell. This is a low creeping 
plant, growing wild in corn - fields. 
The leaves have a very bitter, roughifh 
tafle. They were formerly accounted 
excellent vulneraries, and of great ufe 
for cleanfng and healing old ulcers, 
and fpreading cancerous fores. Some 
have recommended them internally in 
leprous and fcrophulc^s disorders ; as 
alfo in hydropic cafes. It gives name 
ro one of the officinal honeys 3 but the 
plant 



FOL 



F O O 



Tea. 



plant Ltfelf is never ufed in the prefent 
practice, and this preparation of it is 
in no gi 

FLUMMERY. A kind of food 
made with oatmeal and water, boiled 
thick. 4f/5t/ cf/iTH&tl/-: 

FLUX in Cms. The cure. — Boil an 
ounce of logwood in three pints of 
water, till it is reduced to one pint, 
adding, during the boiling, half an 
ounce of gum arabic ; ftrain and mix 
it with one ounce of ftarch, and the 
fame quantity of the electuary of bay- 
berries for a drink, to be repeated in 
three or four hours ; and the following 
ball every four hours : 

Mithridate, Armenian bele, each half 
an ounce; Gum tragacanth, in 
powder, and ftarch, each three 
drams : confeive of rofes, enough 
to form a ball. 

T LY en Turnips. To prevent this, 
let the ground be well dunged before 
the feed is fown, and if not manured 
enough, fold yourfheep upon it ; this 
occafiens the turnips to grow away 
very faft. fo that they will foon be too 
rank and too ill-favoured for the fly. 

To deltroy the fiy, fome recommend 
drawing a bough of the elder- tree 
backwards and forwards over the tur- 
nips ; and we tan, from our own ex- 
peiiente, recommend the fowing of 
wcod-afhes, taken dry from a lime- 
kiln, to be fown over the turnips when 
the dew is on them in the morning by 
break of day. 

Fly on Sheep. A troublefome mag 
got ; to cure which, take of good cor- 
rofive fublimate half an ounce, difToIve 
it in two quarts of rain water, and add 
to it four ounces of fpirits of turpen- 
tine ; anoint the maggots with this 
water, and it will prefently kill them. 

FOAL-TEETH. See Age of a 
Horse. 

FODDER. Hay, ftraw, Sec. given 
to cattle. 

FOGGE. Long rowetty grafs. 

FOISSEN. The natural juice of 
grafs. &c. 

FOLD. The moveable enclofure in 
which fheep ate confined. 

FOLIACEOUS.Confifting of leaves. 

FOLIATION. That part of the 
flower of a plant which conftitutes the 
compafs of the flower. 

FOLIAGE. Leaves. 

FOLE-FOOT. Coltsfoot. 



FOOD of Plants. Many philofophers 
have endeavoured to difcover the pro- 
per food of plants, or what are the par- 
ticles which they extract from the foil. 
Lord Bacon was of opinion, that wa- 
ter was ail in all. Van Helmot is alfo 
very pofuive in this, and alledges as 
proofs, the confiderable growth of 
mint, and feveral other plants, in wa- 
ter, and his well-known experiment on 
a willow-tree. Van Helmont planted 
this tree, which weighed five pounds, 
in two hundred pounds of earth dried 
in an oven, and watered it with rain or 
diftilled water, after carefully covering 
the cafe in which it flood with a per- 
forated tin cover, to prevent the ad- 
mittance of any other earth. Five years 
after, weighing the tree, with ai 1 the 
leaves it had produced in that time, he 
found its weight amount to one hun- 
dred and fixty-nine pounds three oun- 
ces ; while the weight of the earth was 
only diminifhed about two ounces. 

Mr. Boyle, Mr. Evelyn, Sec. feem 
of this opinion. 

Dr. Mayhew afcribed the nourish- 
ment to air, and Dr. Woodward's ex- 
periments feem to confirm the opinion. 
The ingenious Dr. Hunter, of York, 
thinks oil is the proper food of all 
plants, when incorporated with water. 

" I am led to believe (fay- he) that 
aii vegetables, from the hyffop upon 
the wall, to the cedar of Lebanon, re- 
ceive their principal nourimment from 
oily particles, incorporated with water, 
by means of an alkaline fait or abfor- 
bent earth. Till oil is made mifcible, 
it is unable to enter the radical vefTels 
of vegetables, and on that account pro- 
vidence has bountifully fupplied all na- 
tural foils with chalky, or other abfor- 
bent particles ; I fay natural foils, for 
thofe which have been affilted by art, 
are full of materials for that purpofe, 
fuch as lime, marie, foap-afhes, and 
the volatile alkaline fait of putrid dung- 
hills. It may be afked, whence do na- 
tural foils receive their oily particles ? 
I anfwer, the air fupplies them. Du- 
ring the fummer months, the atmof- 
phere is full of putrid exhalations, ari- 
fing from the fteam of dunghills, the 
perfpiration of animals and fmoak. 
Every fhower brings down thefe olea- 
ginous particles for the nourifhment of 
plants. Water is thought by fome to 
be the food of vegetables, whin in 
reality 



F O O 

reality it Is only the vehicle of nourifh- 
ment : -water is a heterogeneous fluid, 
and no where to be found pure; it al- 
ways contains a folution of animal or 
vegetable fubflances ; thefe conftitute 
the nourifhment of plants, and the ele- 
ment in which they are minutely fuf- 
pended, acts only as a vehicle in gui- 
ding them through the fine veffcls of 
the vegetable body. The hyacinth, 
and other bulbous roots, are known to 
perfecl their flowers in (apparently) 
pure water. Hence fuperficial obser- 
vers have drawn an argument in fa- 
vour of water being the food of vege- 
tables ; but the truth is, the roots, 
ftem, and flowers of fuch plants are 
nourifhed by the mucilaginous juices 
of the bulb diluted by the furrounding 
water. This mucilage is juft fufficient 
to perfect the flower, and no more. 
Such bulbs neither form feeds, nor fend 
forth oft-feti. At the end of the feafon 
they appear weak, fhrivelled, and ex- 
haufted, and are unfit to produce flow- 
ers the fucceeding year. A root of the 
fame kind, that has been fed by the 
oily mucilaginous juices of the earth, 
effentially differs in every particular ; 
it has a plump appearance, is full of 
mucilage, with off- lets on its fides. 
All rich foils, in a ftate of nature, con- 
tain oil, and in thofe lands which have 
been under the plough for fome years, 
it is found in proportion to the putrid 
dung that has been laid upon them, 
making an allowance for the crops 
they have fuflained. To fet this mat- 
ter in a clearer light, let us attend to 
the effects of manures of an oily na- 
ture, and we fhall foon be fatisfied that 
oil, however modified, is one of the 
chief things concerned in vegetation. 
Rape duit, when laid on land, is a 
fpeedy and certain manure, though an 
expenfive one, and will generally an- 
fwer belt on a lime-flone foil, or land 
that has been moderately limed. This 
fpecies of manure is much efteemed by 
the farmer ; it contains the food of 
plants ready prepared; but as it is not 
capable of loofening the foil by any 
fermentation, the lands on which it is 
laid ought to be in excellent tilth. 

" Farmers that live in the neigh- 
hood of cities and large towns, ufe a- 
bnndance of foot ; it is an oily manure, 
but different from the former, con- 
taining alkaline fait, and calculated as 
well for opening the foil, as for len- 
VcL. J, - 



F O O 

dering the .oily parts mufcible with 
water. It isalfoobferved, that pigeons 
dung is a rich and hafty manure ; thefe 
animals feed chiefly upon grains, and 
oily feeds, it muft therefore be expect- 
ed, that their dung contains a large 
proportion of oil. Swines dung is of 
a faponaceous and oily nature, and 
perhaps the richeft of the animal ma- 
nures ; when made into compofi, and 
applied with judgment, it is excellent 
for arable lands. The dung of cows 
and ftieep is preferable to that of horfes 
at grafs, owing to the quantity of ani- 
mal juices mixed with their food in 
chewing. And here I beg leave to re- 
mark in general, that the fatter the 
animal, cceterh paribus, the richer the 
dung. Human ordure is full of oil, 
and a volatile alkaline fait ; by itfelf, 
it is too ftrong a manure for any land : 
it fhould therefore he made into a 
compoft before it is ufed. The dung 
of carneverous animals is plentifully 
ftored with oil. Animals that feed 
upon feeds and grain come next, and 
after them follow thofe which fubfift 
upon grafs only. 

" In order to flrengthen my argu- 
ment in favour of oil being the prin- 
cipal food of plants, I muit here beg 
leave to obferve, that all vegetables, 
whofe feeds are of an oily nature, are 
found to be remarkable impoverifhers 
of the foil, as hemp, rape, and flax; 
for which rcafon, the beft manures for 
lands worn out by thefe crops, are fuch 
as have moft oil in their compofition, 
but then they fhould always be laid on 
with lime, chalk, marie, or foap-afhes, 
fo as to render the oily particles mif- 
cible with water. The book of nature 
may be difplayed to fhew that oily par- 
ticles conftitute the nourifhment of 
plants in their embryo ftate ; and, by 
a fair inference, we mayfuppofe, that 
fomething of the fame nature is con- 
tinued to them as they advance in 
growth. The oily -feeds, as hemp, 
rape, line, and turnip, confift of two 
lobes, which, when fpread upon the 
furface, form the fern in al leaves. In 
them the whole oil of the feed is con- 
tained. The moifture of the atmof- 
phere penetrates the cuticle of the 
leaves, and mixingwith theorl, consti- 
tutes an emuliion for the nourifhment 
of the plant. The fweetnefs of this 
balmy fluid invites the fly, aj; \nx 
which no fufficient remedy h„ . , '.t 



FOR 



FOR 



been difcovered. The oleaginous li- 
quor being confumed, the feminal 
leaves decay, having performed the of- 
fice of a mother to her tender infant. 
To perfons unacquainted with the Ariel: 
analogy between plants and animals, 
this reflection will appear ftrange : no- 
thing, however, is more demonftrable : 
the leguminous and farinaceous plants 
keep their placenta, or feminal leaves 
within the earth, in which fituation 
they fupply the tender germ with oily 
nutriment, until its roots are form- 
ed, and grown fufficiently ftrong to 
penetrate the foil." 

FOOLSTQNES. See Dogstones. 
FOOT. That part which fupports 
an animal. 

FOOTROT, 7 Sheep are liable 
FOOTWORM, ito breed worms 
between the feet; but this, like the o- 
ther accidents, is principally when 
they are kept in wet or damp paflures. 
It is very painful to them, and will 
make them pine away. 

It is perceived by their frequently 
holding up one foot, and by their fet- 
ting it but tenderly down. 

In this cafe, let the foot be wafhed 
clean, particularly between the toes, 
and there will be feen a little lump 
like a tuft of hair. This is the head 
of the worm. It is to be taken out 
with care, for it is of a tender fub- 
ftance, and if it be broke in the foot, 
it willoccafion an inflammation. The 
beft method is to open the flefh on each 
fide of it, and then, by means of a 
pair of knippers, to take it very gently 
out. 

Then drefs the wound with tar and 
greafe melted together in equal quan- 
tities, and turn the fheep Joofe. 

It is better to put it into a frefh pa- 

Aure ; for if the fame diforder returns, 

It is generally worfe. 

■fy'fif" FORCING -FRAME. A fort of 

J glafs-cafe, or light building, fronted 

9v . with glafs frames, in which to force 

fiowers and fruits to early perfection, 

by aid of artificial heat, either of dung, 

tanner's-bark, or a£tual fire. 

The general conftruclion of each fort 
•f thefe frames is exhibited under fe- 
parate heads, according to the materi- 
als of heat u fed in forcing them, viz. 
by dung-heat, bark-bed-heat, and by 
fire-heat. 

By Dung-heat. — This is not only the 
Ifaoft Ample and cheapeft kind of For- 



cing-frame in its confiruftion, but alfo 
confiderably the cheapelt in working, 
with refpedt to the article heat, as it 
may be forced effectually by fubftantial 
linings of hot dung againft the back 
and ends. 

This frame is formed with an up- 
right back and ends of deal planking, 
and a doping front of moveable glafs 
lights ; the length may be ten, twenty, 
or thirty feet, or more; the width from 
three to five, and five or fix high ; let 
the frame work be of inch-deal plank- 
ing, tongued, and clofely joined, that 
no fteam from the dung may penetrate 
into the frame; rifing five or fix feet 
high behind, and but ten to twelve in- 
ches high in front, raifing both ends 
anfwerable to the front and back ; the 
glafs-work to range, from the upright 
in front, Hoping upward towards the 
back wall, to about a foot width at 
top, there refting the ends upon pro- 
per frame-work of wood, and bars or 
bearers three inches wide, muft rang» 
from the back to front, for the fupport 
of the lights, as in common hot-bed 
frames, and the top of all to be board- 
ed wind and water tight; within fid* 
may be two or three ranges of narrow 
(helves along the back and ends, for 
pots of fmall plants, and the bottom 
levelled, on which to place pots of 
larger kinds ; or you may have (helves 
rifing one behind another, quite from 
the front half way up to the back wall, 
fo may place the loweft plants in front, 
the others in order behind them, rifing 
gradually to the talleft in the back row. 
From the above general fketch, you 
will eafily form an idea of the pro- 
per conflruction of a dung-heat Forc- 
ing-frame, you may improve as you 
(hall fee convenient. 

This kind of frame is much nfed 
about London, where dung is fo plenty 
and eafily obtained ; and is there par- 
ticularly ufed for forcing rofes, or any 
other fmall flowering plants, whofe 
flowers have merit in beauty or fra- 
grance — may alfo try pots of dwarf- 
cherries, peaches, &c. alfo pots of 
goofeberries, currants, and ftrawber- 
ries, carnations, pinks, and the like ; 
having all the forts in pots feparately, 
and in which they are to be placed in 
the frame. 

The feafbn to begin to work this 
frame is January and February, and 
may be continued, oc caflonally till May j 

b*V 



FOR 



FOR 



hut for any kind of fruit-trees, the be- 
ginning of February is time enough, 
though thofe plants of any kind, that 
are defigned to be forced, may be pla- 
ced in the frame a month or two before 
forcing time, to be occafionally pro- 
tected with the glafTes in hard frofts, 
but at other times let them enjoy the 
full air till you begin forcing. 

The method of working this frame 
is thus : after having placed the pots 
of plants in regular order, the talleft 
behind, and the loweft in front, &c. 
then put on the lights, and having a 
due quantity of frefh (table dung, full of 
heat, prepared as for common dung hot- 
beds, let it be piled up clofe againft the 
back and ends, a yard-wide at bottom, 
drawing it gradually into a foot width 
at top of the frame, finishing it fome- 
what doping, to throw off wet ; ob- 
ferving, chat according as the dung fet- 
tles or finks down, a frefh fupply muft 
be added at top, to maintain the lining 
to the full height of the frame. 

This lining will effectually throw in 
a fine quantity of growing heat, and 
foon fet all the plants in motion ; ob- 
ferving to give air in the middle of fine 
days, by Hiding one or more of the 
lights a little down ; give alfo mode- 
rate watering occafionally in mild fun- 
ny weather, and cover the glafTes in 
Sold nights with mats. 

In three or four weeks, when the 
heat begins to decreafe confiderably, 
it muft be renewed, either by entire 
frefh dung, or if new dung is fcarce, 
by making up the old, taking the worft 
away, and mix the remainder with a 
due quantity of new, working the 
whole again in a pile clofe againft the 
back and ends as before, which work 
muft be repeated every three weeks or 
month, or as often as you fhall feeoc- 
cafion ; for the heat muft be con- 
ftantly preferved to a regular brifk tem- 
perature. 

A frame of the above conftru£tion 
may be appropriated entirely for fruit- 
trees, planting them in a border pre- 
pared within the frame againft the 
back wall, and trained in the manner 
of wall-trees to a trellis, ranged five 
or fix inches from the back ereflion ; 
in which may be planted early dwarf- 
cherries, peaches, nectarines, apricots, 
grapes, figs, currants, &c. fo may be 
worked by dung-heat againft the back 
•f the frame, as above directed j be- 



ginning in February, and continuing 
the glaffes on, as well as fupport the 
dung heat, until May, and there is no 
doubt, with good management, but 
that the different fort of fruit may be 
brought to perfection early. 

By Bark- bed heat. — This kind of 
Forcing-frame is worked by aid of tan • 
ners-bark hot- bed, formed in a pit 
within-fide the whole length. 

This frame may be formed either of 
wood or brick-work, and fronted, &c. 
with fames of glaf> like the former; 
the length may be ten, twenty, or 
thirty feet, or mere ; eight or ten wide, 
and fix or eight high ; and may be 
conftrufled eithernearly like the dungi 
heat frame, fix or eight feet high be- 
hind, and one in front, the ends con- 
formable, and doping frames of glafs- 
work raifed from the front, floping ei- 
ther quite to the top of the back wall, 
or to incline only about one-half to- 
wards that part, meeting a tyied roof 
at top halfway, which fhould be rai- 
fed high enough in front to throw the 
water off behind, as well as to admit as 
much fun as poffibie to every part of the 
frame; or it may be conftrudred with 
an upright front of glafs, head high, 
and a floping roof of glafs- work, ran- 
ging from the upright front to the top 
of the back wall, which is rather the 
moft eligible form, both for conveni- 
ence and benefit of the plants ; either 
of which conftruftions may be erecled 
detached, or againft a fouth wall al- 
ready built, which will ferve for the 
back, and fave fomeexpence ; the ends 
may either be of wood or brick, but 
would be much better if glazed like 
the front, &c. and the glafs-work in 
every part fhould be made to move on 
and off, as well as to llide backward 
and forward, to give air, and to do? 
other neceffary work ; and at one end 
next the back wall may be a ddor to 
enter occafionally ; and within-fide 
muft be a pit for the bark-bed, three 
feet deep, continued the whole length 
and width, except about a foot and 
half alley to go in to perform the ne- 
ceffary culture, as well as to view and 
gather the produce of different plants. 

The pit within is to be filled with 
new tan any time in winter or fpring, 
you intend to begin forcing, though 
January is foon enough, and the be- 
ginning of February is not too late ; 
the bark will fupport a growing heat 
' Y y a three 



FOR 



FOR 



three months, and if then ftirred up to kindly here in the full ground, may b« 
the bottom, will renew its heat, and brought to perfection. 



continue it two months longer. 

In thi.s frame you may plunge in the 
bark-bed, pots of rofes, or any other 
choice flowering fhrubs you would 



But the moil eligible general For- 
cing-frame for various forts of plants, 
is one of the above-mentioned con- 
Aiuftions, having alfo flues for fire- 



force into an early bloom ; likewifemay heat ; the walls muft be of brick-work, 

place pots of ftrawberries towards the having three or four returns of flues 

front and topglafs,and pots or troughs formed of the fame materials, running 

of kidney-beans may be placed in any the whole length of the back wall 

part of the frame; alfo pots of dwarf within, to make fires occafionally in 

fruit-trees, before-mentioned, pots of fevere frofts, or on cold nights ; alfo 

double pinks, carnations, and any o- in very cold damp weather, which will 



ther moderate-growing fibrous-rooted 
perennials, as well as any forts of bul- 
bous or tuberous-rooted flowers, as nar- 
cifTuffes, jonquils, tulips, anemonies, 
ranunculufes, and various other forts. 



be a great improvement in very early 
forcing, fo that this kind of frame will 
be nearly of the plan of a ftove or hot- 
houfe. 

In default, however, of any of the 



The heat of the bark- bed will effec- above kinds of bark-heat Forcing- 

tually warm the internalairfufftciently framest one might be effected by a 

to forward any forts of hardy flowers common bark-pit, filling it a yard deep 

and fruits to perfection at an early with tan, and in which you may plunge 

feafon, obferving, that although they pots of rofes, or any other fhrubs, any 

do not always flower and fruit fo a- fort of low herbaceous, flowering 

bundantly as in the full ground, yet, plants, fibrous, or bulbous-rooted kid- 

if there is but a few of any fort, a ney-beans, ftrawberries, &c. 

month or two before their natural fea- By Fire-heat. — This kind of For- 

fon, they, if for fale, will fuffkiently cing-frame is worked by actual fire, 

pay j and if for private ufe, they will burned in a furnace behind at one end 

always be acceptable as a rarity and or middle, from thence communica- 

curiofity in the family. ting the heat by flues or funnels, run- 

Frefh air muft be admitted in fine ningthe whole length of the back wall 

funny days at all opportunities, by fli- in three, four, or more'neturns one 9- 

ding fome of the glaffes more or lefs bove another, and is often employed 

open, keeping all clofe on nights. for ripening feveral of the more valua. 

Give water alfo occafionally in mo- able tree-fruit at an early feafon ; or 



derate quantities. 

When the heat of the bark declines 
confiderably, do not omit forking it 



for forwarding fuch to perfection, as 
do not ripen freely in our climate 
without fuch artificial aids, particu- 



over to the bottom, which will revive larly fome forts of grapes ; and in 

the decaying heat fix or eight weeks which frame the whole bottom fpace 

longer. rnuft be good earth, two fpades deep, 

A bark-heat Forcing-frame, nearly for the reception of the trees, Sec. for 

©f the above dimenfions, might be they are to be planted fully in the 

contrived entirely for forcing valuable ground. 

fruit-trees, having a border within- This frame muft be formed of brick- 
fide along the back wall three or four work, at lead the back or main wall, 
feet wide, there plant young bearing for the convenience of having fire and 
dwarf fruit-trees of any forts before- flues, and the whole front, &c. muft 
mentioned, at fix or eight feet diflance, be glafs like the other forts ; the length 
in the manner of wall or efpalier-trees, may be from twenty to forty or fifty 
training them alfo in the fame manner feet, or more, though one fire will not 
as directed for the refpeclive forts, in warm more than that length ; the 
their natural ftate of growth. The width may be from four or five, to 
bark-pit fhould here bealmoft entirely twelve or fifteen feet, and eight or ten 
funk ; in the beginning of February high. It may be contrived either of 
fill the pit with new bark, which will moderate width for one row of trees 
foon fet the trees into bloom, and will only, to range againft the back wall, 
ripen their fruit early : and the late or may be capacious enough to have a 
fort$ of fine grapes, which do not ripen range of dwarf-trained trees behind, 

as 



FOR 



FOR 



as juft mentioned, and fome young 
half or full ftandards, ranging alfo 
from the back to the front, or entirely 
for ftandards, efpecially thofe of cher- 
ries. 

If it is therefore intended to have a 
narrow frame for only a row of trained 
trees behind, the width from four to 
five or fix feet is fufficient, having the 
back or main wall formed of brick or 
ftone, as aforefaid, eight or ten feet 
high, with feveral flues within-fide, 
returned over each other, running the 
whole length of the wall ; in the front 
rnuft be a low wall a foot high, on 
which to lay a plate of timber, and 
from which is ranged glafs frames or 
lights, in one continued flope to the 
top of the back wall, there received 
into proper frame-work ; but, for the 
greater convenience, the lights may be 
•in two tiers or ranges, an under and 
upper tier, the upper range made to 
flide up and down over the others, 
but fo as all the glafs-work can be 
moved away occafionally, to admit 
the full air to the trees after the work 
of forcing ; the whole bottom-fpace 
within this frame muft be of good 
loamy earth, or any good garden- 
mould, two fparles deep, which mull 
be dug or trenched in the common 
way, then plant a range of trees within 
five or fix inches of the wall, and two 
or three yards afunder, erecting a trel- 
lis behind them, upon which, to train 
the branches as againft a wall or efpa- 
lier; befides thefe trees, there may be 
other inferior plants fet in the border 
in front of the trees, as ftrawberries, 
dwarf kidney-beans, dwarf peas, ma- 
zagan beans, &c. dwarf roles, or the 
like, that will not rife high enough 
to made the fruit-trees in the back 
range. 

A Frame of this conftruftion, forty 
or fifty feet long, may be worked by 
one fire; but if longer, two furnaces 
for fires will be requifite. 

But to have a more capacious frame 
both for training trees and ftandards, 
may be of any length, from twenty to 
fifty feet, or more, but muft be ten or 
fifteen feet wide, having an upright 
back wall of brick, ten feet high, with 
flues as above directed, and a low wall 
in front a foot high, on which is erect: - 
ed upright glafs-work, four or five 
feet perpendicular, and from the top 
f{ thefe-, a Hoping roof of glafs frames, 



continued to the top of the back wall, 
fupported upon proper bearers three 
feet fix inches diftance, having the top 
glaffes in two ranges, an under and 
upper ringe, as before advifed, both 
of which, and thofe of the upright in 
front, made to flide, and move away 
occafionally; in this frame there will 
be room to walk under the glafs-work 
in any part, and there will be alfo due 
room for the trees, both dwarfs and 
ftandards, and then having the whole 
ground-fpace within-fide of pliable 
loamy earth, as in the other frame ; you 
may plant your trees fome in one range 
againft the back wall, as peaches, nee- ' 
tarines, apricots, grapes, figs, &c. eight 
feet afunder, erecting a trellis for train- 
ing them upon ; and in front of thefe 
may be planted rows of young cherries, 
both full ftandards, half ftandards, and 
dwarfs, the full ftandards to have five 
or fix feet ftems, the half ftandards 
three or four, and the dwarfs one or 
two foot ftems ; each fort, both train- 
ed trees and ftandards, to be planted 
when about from three to four or five 
years old, as foon as they acquire a 
bearing ftate, having regular heads of 
two or three feet extent at firft plant- 
ing. Having procured rhe trees, and 
the ground ready for their reception, 
may then plant one range of the 
choicer forts againft the back wall, two 
or three yards afunder, the others in 
rows from back to front, at eight feet 
diftance, the talleft behind, and the 
loweft in front, at three or four feet 
diftance in each row, making each row 
range againft the intervals of the train- 
ed trees behind ; or if they are all full 
and half ftandards, there will be more 
room for feveral forts of fmaller plants 
under them ; and as their branches will 
be nearer the top glades, may be of 
particular advantage, and in the in- 
tervals may be planted fome low cur- 
rants, goofebei ries, rafberries, firaw- 
benies, dwarf -beans, kidney - beans, 
&c. But in a frame of thefe dimenfions, 
fome plant it entirely with ftandards, 
more particularly cherries, as being 
more moderate mooters, and fconeft 
arrive to a bearing ftate, fo as to bear 
any tolerable quantity of fruit to de- 
fray the expence, planting them five or 
fix feet diftance, fometimes ftandard 
plumbs, apricots, peaches, and necli- 
rines are alfo planted. 
A frame of thefe dimenfions, twenty 
riv* 



FOR 



FOR 



five feet long, may be worked by 
one fire ; but if much more than thir- 
ty feet in length, two furnaces for 
fires, with each its fet of flues, will be 
ueceflary. 

With refpect to the age of the trees 
for both the above kinds of fire-heat 
Forcing-frames, they fhould be from 
three to four or five ytat s old, with re- 
gular heads of two or three feet extent 
each way, and ju(t arrived at a tolera- 
ble ;bearing ftate ; no very vigorous 
(hooters muft be admitted, but fuch 
only that aflume a moderate regular 
growth, and are to be trained in the 
nurfery until they have acquired a pro- 
per fize, each as directed under their 
refpeclive genera, whether as wall- 
trees or ftandards, or trees proper for 
the purpofe may be had at all the pub- 
lic nurferies ; they are to be tranfplant- 
ed into the frame in October or No- 
vember, to remain for forcing, but 
Ihouid be permitted to have a year or 
two's growth here before you begin 
forcing them, that they may be firmly 
tooted, during which time all the glaf- 
fes mould be entirely away, that the 
trees may have the full air till forcing 
time is nearly arrived. 

In both the above kinds of Forcing- 
frames, may alfo plant fome grape- 
vines on the outnde of the front glaf- 
fes, in the full ground, and their ftems 
trained through holes, and conduct the 
fhoots along up the iniide, towards the 
glafs-work, to a fort of flight trellis ; 
keeping the branches quite thin, and 
they will ripen early fruit in great per- 
fection. 

It fhould however be remarked with 
refpect to grapes, that when intended 
to have in your Forcing-frames any of 
the large late kinds, which do not ri- 
pen here without the aid of fhelter and 
artificial heat, it will be more advife- 
able to have them in a department by 
themfelves, becaufe they often do not 
ripen till late in autumn, fo often re- 
quire the glafies to be continued over 
them occafionally all the fummer, ef- 
pecially in wet and cold weather ; and 
fometimes, if the autumn proves wet 
and cold, they require aid again of 
gentle fires made them on nights, to 
promote their ripening perfectly ; in 
which cafes, where other trees, whofe 
fruit are ripe and gone in fummer, 
planted io the fame department, it 



would force them at 'an untimely fes- 
fon, and greatly weaken them. 

The feafon for beginning to make 
the fires for forcing the trees, in either 
of the above-defcribed fire- heat frames, 
is any time in January, though about 
the middle, or towards the latter end 
of that month is, for the general part, 
rather the moft fuccefsful time to begin 
the general forcing to have a good 
crop ; for if the trees are forced very 
early, there will be fome danger of 
their mil'cairying, as if they fhould 
come into bloffom, when fevere wea- 
ther prevails, that air cannot be freely 
admitted, they fcldom fet any tolerable 
crop of fruit ; therefore, by beginning 
to make the fires about the time above 
directed, the trees will be in bloffom 
about the middle of February, when 
we may expe£t fome fine funny days 
for the admiffion of a moderate portion 
of frefh air, which is effentially necef- 
fary to promote the natural impregna- 
tion of the fruit, and improve its free 
growth ; for if kept too clofe, they are 
apt to drop off in their infant ftate. 

The fires are to be lighted in th« 
evening about four or five o'clock, and 
if kept burning till twelve, it w/11 fuf- 
ficiently heat the flues to warm the in- 
ternal air of the houfe till next day in 
the evening, unlefs very cold, frofty, 
or cloudy damp weather fet in, then a 
moderate fire may be made occafionally 
alfo in a morning, but by no means 
force the trees too much, for a mode- 
rate warmth will prove the moft fuc- 
cefsful j and thus continue the fires 
occafionally till April or May, but lefs 
in proportion as the weather grows 
warmer. 

Frefh air muft be occafionally ad- 
mitted in fine days, by Aiding fome of 
the glafTes a little open ; and, as the 
trees advance to bloffom and fruit, the 
days grow longer, and the power of 
the fun greater, allow a greater pro- 
portion of air accordingly. 

Thus your trees will be in full blofiom 
in February, and fome forts will ripen 
fruit in April, particularly cherries and 
ftrawberries in plenty ; you may alfo 
expect early apricots, peaches, and 
nectarines, in May and June, plumbs 
and grapes in June and July j but the 
curious late forts of grapes, which do 
not ripen here without fhelter and arti- 
ficial heat, will not be ripe till Sep- 
tember j 



FOR 



FOU 



temberj butthefe fhould always have 
a feparate department. 

After the fruit of the different forts 
are all gathered, the glaffes fhould be 
taken entirely away, that the trees may 
have the full air during fummer, and 
in December they fhould be placed 
upon the frame again, ready for for- 
cing in January. 

With refpedl to pruning the trained 
trees, i. e. fuch that are trained as 
wall-trees againft the trellis, &c. they 
are to be pruned and trained, every 
fummer and autumn, each fort accord- 
ing to its kind, as other wall-trees ; 
and as to the ftandards, their refpec- 
tive pruning is principally in autumn, 
to cutout any irregular growth, and 
thinning out any crowding fhoots, for 
the branches mult be kept thin and re- 
gular, clear of each other, fix or eight 
inches diftance; and any ftraggleis 
which extend in length confiderably 
more than its neighbour of the fame 
tree, fhould be reduced to order; and 
as the branches in general become fo 
long, as to prefs againft the glaffes, or 
fpread too much, they fhould alfo be 
reduced a little, to preferve them within 
due compafs, obferving always, when 
fhortening the ftandards, it is neceffary 
to cut to a bud, fituated on the outfide 
of the fhootor branch, making the cut 
on the infide. 

Every autumn, after pruning the 
trees, the borders muft be digged care- 
fully one fpade deep. 

It muft be remarked, that the trees 
in theft frames, if annually forced, are 
not fo durable, nor plentiful bearers, 
as thofein the full air; therefore, when 
you fhall fee any become weak, fickly, 
or bad bearers, others fliould be ready 
in training, or procured from the nur- 
feries, to plant in their ftead, and in 
this no time fhould be loft. 

But to continue the fame trees more 
effectually in health, and in a bearing 
ftate, fome have a double portion of 
walling and framing planted, but more 
particularly that of the firft-defcribed 
fire-heat frame, which is fometimes 
contrived to move or flide along from 
one place to another, for one frame- 
work and glaffes to ferve two portions 
of walling, fo that being alternately 
worked, one pare one year, the other 
the year after, each portion of trees 
will have a year of reft in their natural 
growth, and will fuccsed each other in 



due order for forcing, whereby the 
health and vigour of the trees will be 
better fuppoi ted, and each year a grea- 
ter crop of fruit may be expected, thaa 
if the fame trees were fucceffively for- 
ced every year. 

FOREST. A wide, uncultivated 
tratt of ground, with wood. 

Forest Trees, are either deciduou* 
or ever-green. 

The deciduous forts are, — Elm } 
Beech j Plane; Maple; Oak; Afhj 
Lime ; Hornbeam ; Walnut ; Chefnut ; 
Horfe-Chefnut; Larch ; Virginian Tu- 
lip-tree ; Acacia ; Wild Cherry ; Bird 
Cherry ; Poplar ; Lote, or Nettle-tree ; 
Laburnum, or Bean Trefoil ; Birch 9 
Service ; Judas ; Elder ; Tacamahacca j 
Willow. 

The ever-green Foreft-trees are,— 
Pine; Fir; Cedar; Cyprefs ; Arbor- 
vitae ; Cork-tree; Ever-green Oak 5 
Holly; Yew 5 Laurel ; Bay ; Arbutus, 
or Strawberry-tree; Box. 

FORESTALLER. One that antici- 
pates the market ; one that purchafea 
before the market to enhance the price. 

FORGET-ME-NOT.Ground Pine. 

FORK. An inftrument divided at 
the end into points, for the purpofc 
of moving ftraw, hay, &c. 

FOSTEL. A way leading from th» 
main road to a large houfe. 

FOUL FEEDING. A voracious ap- 
petite to which fome horfes arc- fubject; 
and, though not properly a difeafe, is 
often the caufe of various maladies. Ic 
is generally the effect of fome latent 
diftemper, as vermin, which have a 
quite different effect on fome horfes to 
what they have on others ; for as horfes 
of a lax habit of body often lofe their 
appetites by worms, and are frequently 
griped and fickly in their bowels ; fo 
horfes of Atong rigid conftitutions, that 
caa bear the irritation thofe animals 
make in their interlines, are often vo- 
racious in their appetites, and conti- 
nually craving after food. 

Foul-feeders, however, differ infome 
things from thofe which have voraci- 
ous appetites ; for as the tatter crave 
only after their common food, and can 
hardly ever be fatisfied, fo the former 
will leave their hay to eat their litter, 
and feem to like it the better when it 
is well fauced with their own dung 
and urine ; and, therefore, they may 
be properly faid to have a vitiated or 
depraved appetite, Though this does 

r.9t 



r o xi 



F O W 



*ot always proceed from a voracious 
appetite, yet the firft is often produc- 
tive of the latter, and may probably be 
occafioned by enlarging the capacity of 
the domach and interlines to fuch a 
degree, that nothing will fatisfy their 
cravings, but what has weight and fo- 
lidity ; for the fame kind of horfes will 
eat mould and wet clay, or any kind 
of foul nafty weeds out of the ditches, 
and in the ftable will eat ftinking 
roudy hay, which the generality of 
borfes will refufe. 

There are others of depraved appe- 
tites, that are neither foul nor voraci- 
ous feeders, fuch as we often obferve 
eat dry loam or mud out of the walls, 
which perhaps denotes fome vitiated 
juices in their ftomach ; and this alfo 
is frequently owing to vermin, or at 
lead to a bad digeftion, though, per- 
haps, not to any imbecility in their 
conftitutions ; for though thefe horfes 
have a longing after thofe extraneous 
things, yet their appetites at the fame 
time feldom fail : but as this is often 
owing to full feeding, with the want 
of fufficient exercife, fo we often fee 
them recover and quite lofe that vitia- 
ted tafte, when they come to ride a 
journey, or go upon any other con- 
itant exercife. 

The belt method in all thefe cafes of 
a vitiated or depraved appetite, is to 
begin with purging, and to difTolve 
chalk in their water, and afterwards 
to give them good exercife. The fame 
method may be complied with to thofe 
that feed voracioufly. To thefe the 
following draught may alfo be given to 
blunt their appetites : 

Take a large handful of the roots of 
marfh - mallows, cummin -feeds, 
and fenugreek-feeds, of each an 
ounce; liquorice-roots fliced, half 
an ounce ; boil in three pints of 
water till the roots are foft and 
flimy, then pouroffthe decocftion, 
and difTolve it in an ounce of 
gum-arabic, and add four ounces 
of linfeed-oil. 

Let the horfe have half a pint of 
this every morning fading, till his ap- 
petite abates. If the horfe be lean, 
which many voracious feeders are, he 
will gather more flefh under this ma- 
nagement, and as his flefh increafes, 
fcis appetite will abate. 



As to foul feeders, many of thefe 
begin with voracioufnefs, and when 
they come to be dinted, take to eating 
of their litter to fill their domachs, 
and in time take a great liking to it ; 
and it is obfervable, that many of the 
horfes that go broken-winded have this 
evil faculty; and therefore we would 
advife any one who has a foul-feeding 
horfe, to keep his ltal! as clean as pof- 
fible, to let no wet dirty litter lie 
under him, nor to put his litter under 
the manger, but to bellow it on fome 
other ?:orfe, otherwife they will paw it 
out, and feed upon it greedily; but 
clean draw that has not been foaked 
with urine and filth, will never hurt 
any horfe ; for though there is no harm 
in the urine, yet when the flraw has 
been foaked in it with the dung, it of- 
ten turns into a wad, or like a fponge 
in their bowels, and caufes great dis- 
orders. Eut when their wet litter is 
taken away every Viorning, it may be 
the means to make them leave off that 
ill habit. , 

FOWLS. Poultry in general. 
Fowls Dung. The dung of all 
poultry is of a very hot nature, full of 
volatile falts, and therefore extremely 
proper for cold lands, being light of 
carriage, and a little of it going a great 
way. It is moft commonly ufed for 
diflant grounds, where it is fprinkled 
on wheat or barley, after they are come 
up, or upon the latter at the time of 
fowing. Mr. Mortimer thinks forty 
bufhtls fufficient for an acre. It is 
ufed to mod advantage when dried and 
powdered, and is very efficacious in 
keeping frcd out of the earth. Its ef- 
fects are fudden, but they do not lad 
long. Hens dung is very rich, though 
not fo hot as pigeons dung, nor is it fo 
eafy to fow, becaufe it hangs more to- 
gether, neither can it be fo eafily col- 
lected. The opinion that goofe-dung — ■ 
is rather hurtful than beneficial to corn 
or grafs, is an ancient error, as is pro- 
ved by Mr. Worlidge, who fays, he 
was credibly informed, that a flock of 
geefe having made a track acrofs a field 
of wheat during the winter, and nib- 
bled the corn clear from the ground in 
their daily paffage in fuch a manner, 
that the wheat upon it proved the next 
year much finer than any other part of 
the field. He alfo mentions a field 
which had been given to the town of 
Sutton, 



F R A 



F R I 



p 

r-, 



S 



■ * 



1 



Sutton, In Northamptonshire, for feed- 
ing geefe, wbofe dung made it one of 
the richer! paftures he ever faw, info- 
much, that all forts of cattle fed on it 
very greedily ; nor could he hear from 
any of the inhabitants, that fo much as 
one beafl received the Jeaft injury from 
it. He adds that his own horfes, kept 
in a piece of pa It u re on which geefe 
lay very much, eat the grafs heareft 
where the fowls had dunged moft,and 
that he never found it to do them any 
hurt, except making them too fat. 

Perhaps the reafon why the dung of 
geefe has been faid to occafion barren- 
nefs, flowed from obfervations where 
it had been laid too thick ; for being 
of a hot fiery nature, it will, if laid on 
in too large quantities, deftroy the 
grafs, but if fpread thin in the winter, 
it will prove a very rich and valuable 
manure, efpecially if mixed with cool- 
ing earth, and left for fome time to 
putrifv. 

FOX-GLOVE, [Digitalit.] This 
plant grows wild in woods, and on 
uncultivated heaths : the elegant ap- 
pearance of its purple flowers, which 
hang in fpikes along o; e fide of the 
ftalk, has gained it a place in fome of 
our gardens. The leaves have been 
ftrongly recommended externally, a- 
gainft fcrophulous turnouts : and like- 
wife internally in epileptic diforders: 
what f-rvice they may be capable of 
doing in thefe cafes, we have no expe- 
rience. Several examples are menti- 
oned by medical writers of their occa- 
fioning violent vomiting, hypercathar- 
fes, and difordering the whole confli- 
tution ; infomuch that Boerhaave ac- 
counts them poifonous. Their talte is 
bitter and very naufeous. 

There are feveral fpecies cultivated 
in gardens, which may be propagated 
by fowin? the feeds in autumn. 

FOX -TAIL- GRASS. See Cow- 
wheat . 

FOX-EVIL. A difeafe in which the 
hair falls off. 

FRAMBOISE. Rafpberry. 
FRANK1NCENCE, [T««j.] A fo- 
lid, brittle refin, brought to us in lit- 
tle glebes or maiTes, of a brownifh or 
yellowifh colour on the outfide, inter- 
nally whitifh, or variegated with whi- 
tifli fpecks ; of a bitteriih, acrid, not 
agreeable tafle, without any confide- 
rable fmell. It is fuppofed to be the 
produce of the tree which yields the 
Vol. I. 



terebinthina communis ; and to con- 
crete on the furface of the terebinthi- 
nate juice foon alter it has iiTued from 
the plant. 

FRANKLIN. A fleward j a bailiff 
of land. 

FREEHOLD. Lands or tenements 
held in fee. 

FREEMARTIN. A barren heifer ; I 
a twin cow-calf is faid always to be a - 
FieemartlrT. 2,?// / AiY'S/ Jfi t * • 
FRENCH-BEAN. See Bean. 
French Barky. See Barley. 
French Cowjlip. Auricula. 
French Honey fuck'e, [ Hedyfarum. ] 
There are feveral fpecies of this plant, 
biennial and perennial ; the biennial 
have large deeply itrikirig roots, up- 
right, hollow, very branchy ftalks, 
three or four feet high, bearing beau- 
tiful flowers in June and July, and 
ripening their feeds in Augult. They 
may be propagated by fowing the feeds 
in March or April. They rife the firft 
year, flower the next, and then perifh. 
Other forts are perennial in root, 
but annual in ftalk and leaves. They 
are alfo propagated by feeds. 

French Lavender. Caffidony. See 
Cassidon y. 

French Mar_ ygo Id, See African 
Mar ygold. 

French Mercury, A fpecies of 
Mercury. 

French PPil.'ow, [Epi/obium.] Wil- 
low herb. There are feveral fpecies of 
this plant growing wild in many parts 
of England, feldom cultivated in gar- 
dens. Of this fpecies is the plant cal- 
led Codlins and Cream, 

FRIAR's COWL. Arum. See A- 

R UM. 

FRINGE TREE, [Ch'wr.antkus.'] 
Snowdrop tree. This fhrub is a native 
of South Carolina, where it grows by 
the fides of rivulets to the height of a- 
bout ten feet, bearing thin leaves of 
the fue of the laurel, and in May 
fhewing forth beautiful clufters of 
white fringed flowers. 

This is a molt beautiful fh'iib for 
the ornamental plantations of a plea- 
fure-ground, and may be propagated 
by layers or feeds : if by feeds, they 
fhould be procured from America, 
which fhould be as foon as they arrive, 
in large pots of freih loamy earth, 
half an inch deep. 

FRITH. An arm of the fea run- 
ning into land. 

Z z FRITIL- 



FUM 



FUR 









FRITILLARY. Crown Imperial. 

FROG-BIT, ? . . . 

FROG-GRASS, J An herb ' 

FROUDIFEROUS. Bearing leaves. 

FROST-NAIL. A nail with a pro- 
minent head, driven into a horfe's 
fhoe, to prevent Aiding on the ice or 
fnow. 

FRUCTIFEROUS. Bearing fruit. 

FRUCTUOUS. Fruitful. 

FRUIT. The produce of a tree or 
plant, in which the feeds are contained. 

FRUIT-TREE. The different kinds 
are— Almond, Peach, Neclarine, Hazel 
Nut, Filbert, Beech, Chefnut, Fig, 
Walnut, Medlar, Mulberry, Plum, A- 
pricot, Cherry, Pear, Apple, Quince, 
Currant, Goofeberry, Rafpberry, Vine, 
and all their different varieties, fome 
of which are almoft without number. 

FRUITERY. A fruit-loft: a re- 
pofitory for fruit. 

FRUIT-TIME. Autumn ; time for 
gathering fruit. 

FRUMENTY. Food made of wheat 
boiled in milk. N * > - 

FRUSH, Runnmg Fiufh. This is a 
fcabby and ulcerous difpofition in the 
Frufli, which fometimes caufes it to 
fall off by degrees. It may be known 
both by »he eye and fmell, refembling 
that of old rotten cheefe. It is not 
dangerous, but very troublefome, as 
it caufes a continual itching. 

In order to the cure, you muft pare 
the foot with your buttrefs as near as 
you can, then wafh the part with lime- 
water or alum-water hot ; then apply 
a charge made of foot, vinegar, and 
the whites of eggs, and wafh the parts 
fometimes with vitriol-water; at laft, 
when you perceive the itching gone, 
pour melted tar all over the frog, and 
keep the foot clean from dirt and filth. 

FUEL. Firing- ; fevvel. 

FULLER's EARTH. A native earth 
found in many parts of England, and 
much ufed by fullers in cleaning and 
fcouring their cloth. It is of a very fat 
nature, and very full of that vegetative 
fait that helps the growth of plants ; 
and therefore may be ufed with advan- 
tage, where it is found in plenty on 
fome forts of land. 

FUMITORY, [Fumarla.] This is 
a common weed. There are feveral 
fpecies of this plant, among which are 
the bulbous-rooted, pod-bearing, &c. 
which are cultivated in gardens for the 
fake of variety. 



FURLONG. The eighth part of a 
mile. 

FURROW. A ttench made by a 
plough. Jec.a/fa-*/% /c'eT'Lp/cWf'*'} 

FURZE. [£//<*.] Whins or Gorze. « ' 

This plant propagates itfelf very fait, 
by fhedding its feeds, and where it is 
once rooted, it is difficult to eradicate. 
The only way to extirpate them, is by 
paring off, and burning the furface of 
the ground. 

This is by fo much the more advife- 
able, as thefe feeds will otherwife re- 
main a long while found in the earth, 
and grow whenever they are brought 
up by ploughing ; and alfo becaufe the 
finalieir. fragments of this plant will 
ftrike out frefh roots, and fhoot up 
anew: but when a good thicknefs of 
the furface is pared off, and burnt, the 
feeds are fo effectually deftroyed, and 
the roots are killed to fo confiderablea 
depth, that neither can again give rife 
to new plants; and if a few of thefe 
do appear, the fummer fallow will put 
an entire end to their growth. Their 
increafe may likewife be prevented by 
good manuring, with marie, chalk, or 
lime, efpecially in fandy foils, which 
are the moll apt to produce this plant, 
and which are, at the fame time, the 
moft benefited by thofe helps. 

However, this very plant, formerly 
deemed a great nuifance, is now cul- 
tivated to advantage on light, fandy, 
dry foils, which would otherwife turn 
to little account. The tops of the 
common Englifh furz, bruifed a little, 
to take off, or to blunt their prickly 
tips, have been found to be excellent 
fodder, even for lean fickly beads, and 
particularly horfes, which they have 
frequently recovered, and plumped up 
in a fhort time. This cuftom is much 
pradtifed in feveral foreign countries, 
where furze is cultivated purpofely for 
fodder, and the peafant thinks it ahap- 
pinefs, that his breaking their fpikes 
with a mallet enables him to give this 
wholefome green food to his cattle in 
the winter, when often no other fuc- 
culent plant can be had fit for that life, 
The mills which Sir Capel Hanbury 
has lately erected for this end in Wales, 
with a patriotic fpirit, well fuited to 
his diftinguifhed zeal for the public 
welfare, willfave the countryman that 
laborious talk, and prove highly bene- 
ficial to thole who follow his judicious 
example. 

When 



GAB 



GAL 



When furze are raifed on purpofe for 
the food of cattle, and especially on 
foils like the above-mentioned, their 
feeds fhould be fown in February, 
March, or April, and theground fhould 
be prepared as for barley. Six pounds 
of them will be fufficient for an acre 
of land, and they fhould be but barely 
covered over. The young plants mult 
be preferved from cattle during the 
firft year, and they will be fit to mow 
or cut in the next. Odfober is the 
proper time to begin cutting them. 
They will continue to fhoot till Chi ift- 
mas, and be fit for i.fe till March. 
Horfes eat them as readily as they do 
hay, after they have been bruifed, or 
pounded, fo as to take off their fharp 
points; and it is faid that an acre of 
ground will produce fifteen tons of this 
fodder, and that it will go as far as an 
equal quantity of hay. Some mix the 
bruifed furze with chopped ft raw ; an 
hundred of flraw to a ton of furze; but 
only the growth of the year fhould be 
cut for cattle. 

Poor hungry gravelly foils, which 
would not have let for five fhillings an 
acre, have been rendered worth 2CS. an 
acre, by fowing them with furze feed, 
in places where fuel has been fcarce ; 
this being frequently ufed for heating 
ovens, burning lime and bricks, and 
alfo for drying rnalt, but it is not 
worth cultivating in countries where 
fuel of any kind is cheap, or upon 
fuch lands as will produce good grafs 
or corn. 

Some years ago the common furze 
ufed to be fown for hedges about fields, 
and where the foil was light, the 
plants foon became ftrong enough for 
a fence againft cattle; but as thefe 
hedges grow naked at the bottom In a 



fhort time, and the plants frequently 
failed, fo as to leave confiderable gaps? 
this pradrice has of late been difuled. 
The fpecies commonly called French 
Furze is the bell for this purpofe, be- 
caufe it thickens more near the ground, 
and grows to a greater height : but its 
fhoots are not tender enough for cat- 
tle to eat them. This is alfo confider- 
ed as the moft difficult to extirpate: 
though Mr. Eradley, who tells us he 
had feen fields of one hundred and fifty 
acres planted with it in Devonshire, 
fays, that it may be killed by cutting 
the woody ftalks within a foot of the 
root in fummer time; for that it will 
not then fpring up again like the fmall 
wild furze or whins, by which name 
Mr. Maikham diffinguifhes the fmal- 
ler from the larger fort. This begins 
to blow in the middle of January, and 
continues in bloffom all the fummer; 
while the Englifh furze does not bloom 
till towards the end of the fpring, and 
finifhes the bloffoming at the fame 
time as the other. 

The Marquis of Tourbilly obferves, 
that cows, oxen, and molt other cat- 
tle, as well as horfes, feed heartily 
upon, and are well fed by, the bruifed 
tops of furze ; and that we may be fure 
corn will do well where-ever this plant 
is met with : for be the furface of the 
ground what it will, the fpontaneous 
growth of the furze always indicates a 
depth of good mould underneath; and 
the continual dropping and rotting of 
the leaves, will infallibly improve and 
enrich the furface. The flowers of tht 
furze are excellent for bees. 

FURY-BALL A kind of fungus, 
which, when preffed, burfts and fcat- 
ters duff. 

FUZZEN. SeeFoissiN. 



OTrii^a^^cj!t^m^^a^^!^5^'^^Um3T'ts«^^Mcirim»^»M^^ 



G. 



GABEL, A tribute or cuftom paid 
to the king or lord ; in France 
it is a tax upon fait. 

CABLE. The end of a building 
where the rafters are upright from each 
fide of which the roof defcends. 
GAD-FLY. A fringing fly. 
GALAGE. A fhepherd's clog. 



GALE, [MyrkaJ] Sweet willow; 
candleberry myrtle. See Candle- 
bury Tree. There are feveral fpe- 
cies prcpat:a*eJ by cuttings. 

GALAKGAL, [Ga'anga.] This 
root comes to us in pieces fcarce an 
inch long, and not half fo thick, full 
of joints, with feverai circular rings on 

Z z % . the 



GAL 



G A M 



the cutfide ; of an aromatic fmell, and 
a bi;:erifh, hot. biting taite. Galangal 
is a warm, ftomachic bitter: it h :s 
been frequently prefcribed in bitter in- 
I but the flavour it gives is dif- 

ile, rior arc the fpiritucus tinc- 
tu.c or extraft lefs naufeous. 

ft Galancal. \Cynarus longus.] 
This is a plant of the graminifolious 
kinri ; it is fometimes found wild in 
marfh; places in England; the roots 
have 11 e ei all) brought to us from 
Italy. Tins i oot is long! (lender, crook- 
ed, and full of knots ; outwardly of a 
datk brown cr blackifh colour, in- 
wardly w hirifli ; of an aromatic fmell, 
and an . -.arte; both the 

taite ;u ■ improved by mode- 

rate exfiecation. Cyperus is account- 
ed a good (tomachic and carminative, 
but at prefent very little regarded. 

GALCANlM. The concrete juice 
of an African plant, of the ferulaceous 



ftyptic tafte, without any fmeil ; they 
arevery ftrong alttingsnts, and as fuch 
have beenfometimes ;:ade ufe of both 
internally and externally, but are not 
much taken notice of by the prefent 
practice. 

GALL OAK.. See Oak. 

GALLERY. A kind of covered 
walk in a garden, formed into porti- 
coes or arches, with horn-beams, lime- 
trees, or the like. 

GALLING of a HorfSf Back. A dis- 
order occafioned by heat, and the cha- 
fing or pinching of the fe$j lie, 

This ftldom happens when the fad- 
die fits, and is fluffed property; when 
:t i , the horfe fhould not be rode 
alteiuards. Rub theinfideof the fad- 
cle with hard-foap well ; wafh the 
part with vegeto- mineral water. 

GALLON. A meafure of capacity 
both for dry and liquid things, con- 
taining four quarts ; but thefe quarts, 



kind. This juice, as brought to us, and confeqnently the gallon itfelf, are 

is femipellucid, foft, tenaceous ; of a different, according to the quality of 

Arong and to fome unpleafant fmeil. the thing meafured ; for inftance, the 

The bitter fo: t L in paie-coloured maf- wine gallon contains 231 cubic inches, 

fes, which, on being opened, appear and holds eight pounds avoirdupoifeof 

compofed of eka' white tears. Geof- pure water: the beer and ale gallon 

froy relates, tint a dark gretnifh oil is contains 282 fclid inches, and holds 

to be obtained from this limple by ten pounds three ouncesand a quarter 

diftillation. which, upon repeated rec- avoirdupoife of water ; and the gallon 

tifications, becomes of an elegant Iky- for corn, meal, &c, 272 J cubic inches, 

blue colour. The purer forts of gal- and holds nine pounds thirteen ounces 



banum arefaid by feme to diffblve en- 
tirely in wine, vinegar, or water; but 
the.e liquors are only partial menftiua 
with regard to this juice; nor do fpi- 



of pure water. 

GALLOWAY. A horfe not more 
than fourteen hands. 

GALLOWS of a Plough. A part of 



rit of vine, cr oil, prove more effec- the plough-head, fo called by farmers, 
tual in this refpedt : the beft diffolvent from its refemblance to the common. 



mixture of two part, fpirits of 
wine, and one of water. Galbanum 
agrees in virtue with ^um ammonia- 
cum ; but is generally accour.-ci lefs 
efficacious in afthmas, and more fo in 
hyfterical complaints. 

GALL.S, [Gaua.~\ Thefe are ex- 
crefcences found in the warmer coun- 
t.i.s upon the oak tree : They ?re pro- 
duced by a kind of infeft (which 
wounds the young buds or branches) 
and afterwards ferve as a lodgment for 



jallaws, as confiding of three pieces 
of timber, cf which one is placed 
tranfverfely over the heads of the other 
two. 

GAMBOGE, [Gamhogia.'] A folid 
concrete juice, brought from the Eaft- 
Indies in large cakes or rolls. Geof- 
froy feems particularly fond of this 
medicine, and informs us, that he has 
frequently given it, from two to four 
grains, without its proving at all eme- 
tic; that from four to eight grains, it 



its tggs ; the animal within the gall, both vomits and purees, without vio- 

eati its way through; thefe which lence ; that its operation is foon over ; 

have no hole are four.d to have the in- and that, if exhibited in a liquid form, 

fed remaining in them. The beft galls and fufficiently diluted, it ftands not 

come from Aleppo; thefe are not in need of any corrector ; that, in the 

quite round and fmooth 1;k>.- the other form cf a bolus or pill, it is moll apt 

forts, and have feveral tubercles on to prove emetic, but very rarely has 

the furface. Galls have a very auftere this effeel, if joined along with mtrcu- 

rius 



GAR 



GAR 



f-ius dulcis. He nevertheless cautions 
againft its ufe where the patient can- 
not eafily bear vomiting. 

GAME. Animals appropriated for 
hunting, (hooting, &c. 

GAME-COCK. A cock bred to 
•fight. 

GANDER. The maleof thegoofe; 
one gander is enough for five geefe. 

GAP. A breach or opening made in 
a hedge. 

GARBLING. Pickingout the worfl 
from the bell. 

GARDENS are frequently diftin- 
guifhed into flower-gardens, fruit-gar- 
dens, and kitchen-gardens : the firit 
being defigned for pleafure and orna- 
ment, fo fhould be placed in the moft 
confpicuous parts, i. e. next to, or juft 
againft, the back front of the houfe ; 
the two latter being principally intend- 
ed for ufe and fervice, are placed lefs 
in fight. 

Though the fruit and kitchen-gar- 
dens are often mentioned as two dif- 
tinft gardens, and have by the French 
gardeners, as alfo by fome of our own 
countrymen, been contrived as fuch, 
yet they are now ufualiy in one ; and 
with good reafon, fince they both re- 
quire a good foil and expofure, and to 
be placed out of the view of the houfe. 
As the kitchen-garden fhouid be in- 
clofed with walls, that no perfon may 
have accefs to it who have no bufinefs 
in it, for the fake of preferving the pro- 
duel, fo thefe walls anfwer the pur- 
pofes of both. 

In the choice of a place to plant a 
garden, the fuuation and expofure of 
the ground are the moft effential points 
to be regarded ; fince, if a failure be 
made in that point, all the care and 
expence will in a manner be loft. 

The fecond thing to be considered 
in chufing a fpot for a garden, is a 
good earth or foil. 

It is fcarce poffible to make a fine 
garden in a bad foil ; there are indeed 
ways to meliorate ground, but they 
are very expenfive ; and fometimes, 
when the expence has been bellowed 
of laying good earth over the whole 
furface, the whole garden has been 
ruined, when the roots of the trees have 
come to reach their natural bottom. 

The quality of good ground is nei- 
ther to be ftony or hard to work ; nei- 
ther too dry nor too moift, nor too 
fandy and light, nor too ftrong and 



clayey, which is the worft of all for 
gardens. 

The third requifite is water. The 
want of this is one of the greateft in- 
conveniencies that can attend a garden, 
and will bring a certain mortality upon 
whatever is planted in it, efpecially in 
the greater droughts that often happen 
in a hot and dry fummer. 

GARE. Coarie wool. 

GARGET, orGARcoL. Adiftem- 
per incident to hogs, and is known by 
the creature's hanging down of his 
head, and carrying it or one l:de, moift 
eyes, daggering, and lofs of appetite. 

It is occafioned by a corruption of 
the blood, engendered by the eating of 
rotton fruits, garbidge, carrion, orranE 
grafs, wherein is much hemlock, &c. » £c ile"i>?/ 

In order to cure this difeafe, let the 
creatures be firit blooded both under 
the tail and under the ears, and then 
the following drink given them. 

Take of chamber-lye one pint ; rue 
and fouthern-wood, cut fmall, of 
each a handful ; wood-foot from 
an oven, and common fait, of each 
afpoonful; hen's dung, near two 
fpoonfuls ; flour of brimftone one 
ounce ; ftir the whole together, 
and give two or three horns to 
each, proportional to their fize. 
It is alfo good for a cow to cure 
the gargle or murrain. 

Or you may ufe the following drink 
in the room of the above : 

Take angelica, rue, ftave-wort, or 
hog's madder, and May-weed, of 
e.ich one handful ; fhred them 
very fmall, and boil them very 
well in a pint of milk, and when 
it is cold enough, add to it a 
pennyworth of fallad-oil, and the 
fame quantity of treacle. 

GARGIL. A diftemper in geefe, 
and the wot ft of any they can be fub- 
je£t to, flopping the head, and proving 
mortal to them : but the ordinary and 
certain cure is, to take three or four 
cloves of garlick, and beating them in 
a mortar with fvveet butter, make little 
long balls thereof, and give two or 
three of them at a time to the goofe 
fafting, and let her be Uiut up clofe for 
two hours after. 

GARLICK. A well-known plant, 
cultivated in gardens, and eafily pro- 
pagated by parting the cloves or fmall 
bulbs 



GEE 



GEE 









> 

s 



s 



bnlbs of Its root, and planting them in 
the fpring, about four or five inches 
afunder. They will thrive in aim oil 
any foil or fituation ; but in rich ground 
their increafe will be furprifing. About 
the beginning of June their leaves 
(hould be tied in knots, to prevent their 
fpindling or running to feed ; and this 
will alfo tend to enlarge their bulks. 
As foon as their leaves begin to wither 
and decay, which will be about the 
middle of July, the roots fhould be 
taken up, and kept dry for ufe. 

There is a wild fort of Garlick, cal- 
led crow-garlick, or cow-garlick, that 
often does great damage to corn in dry 
fandy grounds, but will not, according 
to Mr. Lifle, grow in clays. That gen- 
tleman tells us, that he knew a farmer 
in fome of whofe fields it grew in 
tfuch abundance, that his wheat tailed 
ftrong of it, and was thereby damaged 
from fixpence to a fhilling in the 
bufhel. 

ffildGAKLicK. Crow-garlick, cow- 
garlick, buckram. See Garlick. 

GARNER. A granary, or repofi- 
tory for corn. 

GARTH. A yard orbackfide; a 
little clofe or homeftead. 

GARZIL. Hedging wood. 

GATE. A frame of bars of wood, 
turning on hinges, to afford and ob- 
ftrucl paffage. 

GATEWAY. The-parfage through 
Sates. 

GATTEN-TREE, 7 Dog- 

GATTERIDGE-TREE,5 wood j 
cornelian cherry-tree. 
— GAVEL. A row or fwarth of corn- 
ground. , 

GAVELKIND. A cuilom whereby 
the lands of the father are equally di- 
vided at his death among all his fons. 

GAVELOCK. A pitch or iron-bar 
for entering (lakes into the ground. 

GAVVLE. Gale; candleberry-tree. 

GAVLING. This is a diilemper 
incident to dogs. Theprefent cure is, 
to take May-butter, yellow wax, and 
a little unflacked lime, beaten together 
like a falve, and to anoint the fore 
place. 

GAWN. A fmall tub, or lading 
veffel. 

GEE. A word of encouragement 
to horfes, to make them go on. 

GEERS. Harnefs. 

GEESE. There are three or four 
diftindl breeds of geefe in different 



parts of the kingdom, though they are 
not Co much regarded as the fame kind 
of differences among other fowls. 

The large grey goofe that is bred in 
the fen countries, is preferable to any 
other ftind both for flcili and feather, 
and it grows to the biggeil fize of any. 
We have befide this a fmaller grey 
goofe, and a fmall dark coloured. 

This is to be obfervec', that fome of 
thefe breeds are more under a r.ecef- 
fity of water tha i the others. The 
fmall-bodied dirk-coloured goofe, of 
which kind there are fome almoffc 
black, will do where there is ever fo 
little, bur they are the leail profitable 
kind of any. The large grey goofe re- 
quires moft to have plcr.ty of water $ 
nor does it any where fucceed fo well 
as where there aie running flreams : 
the leffergrey, which is ofrenj^edp*will 
do with lefs than this, though it will 
not thrive unlefs there be fome plenty. 

In the application of :.hefe diftinc- 
tions to ufe, the farmei mull obferve, 
that if he will have many geefe where 
there is not abundance of water, he 
fhould chufe the fmall grey kind ; but 
when he has water enough, let him al- 
ways take care to breed the firii-men- 
tioned fort, which is much the befl. 

Befide water, a great advantage for 
the breeding of geefe, is a good quan- 
tity of common rthey will on thefe 
places provide for themfelves in a man- 
ner, without the regard or trouble of 
the owner ; and it is on the common 
fen lands in Lincolnfhire, Somerfet- 
fhire, Sec. that they keep thofe vaft 
flocks or droves, as they phrafe it, of 
them, for the fake of their feathers. 
They pull thefe in fome places once, 
in ethers twice, a year, and find a 
ready market for their produce. They 
call this fheering of their geefe. 

Nothing agrees fo well with the na- 
ture of the goofe as plenty of room, 
or a damp commoniThey will always 
breecf of themfelves once a year, and 
in fome places twice, bringing up the 
broods with let? trouble or lofs than 
any other fowl whatever. 

The general and natural time of the 
goofe's breeding is in Sprin g, and the- 
earlier the better for the owner. For 
this reafon the farmer who keeps them 
about bis houfe, will do well to beftow 
fome care and attention upon this 
head, although they would raife their 
broods if he did not. 

Some 



-/• 



\t/i,~ i 



^ I tv „*. • 



, . c..i Ot?/-' 



GEE 



GEE 



Some geefe will not lay above nine 
or ten eggs ; fome will go as far as 
feventeen : they rarely exceed that 
number; and if they do, the beft me- 
thod is to take fome of them away be- 
fore they fit. A goofe will very well 
cover fifteen, feventeen is the utmefi 
fhe can ; and there commonly is bet- 
ter hufbandry in fetting her on fifteen, 
for when there are too many, they only 
cool one another. 

There are two reafons why that 
goofe is beft which lays earlieft ; the 
one is, that fhe will fet earlieft, and 
the green geefe will be ready in the 
deareft feafon ; the other is, that fhe 
has the belt chance for a fecond brood 
that year. But there are difadvantages 
as well as conveniencies in this, for the 
eggs that are laid in a very cold feafon 
rarely turn out to fo good account as 
thofe fomewhat later. 

When the goofe is about laying, fhe 
is feen to be carrying ftraws about con- 
tinually in her mouth. This is for the 
making her neft, in which the owner 
will do well to affift her, efpecially in 
the early broods. Let him find out for 
her a convenient place, warm and 
quiet, and let him there make her a 
neft of ftraw and nettle roots, whofe 
fmell fhe likes, and it alfo does good 
to the young. 

In this fhe will lay ; and when he 
obferves fhe continues upon the neft 
fome considerable time after fhe has 
laid, it will ftand as a proof that fhe 
is about to fet. 

The goofe fhould be fuffered to fit 
upon her own eggs, for fhe will not do 
it well if fhe perceives any deceit in 
this, though they be of the fame kind. 

The geefe fucceed well enough that 
Jay where none knows of it, yet rhey 
will be greatly affifted, and the brood, 
from the fame number of eggs, will 
always be larger, if the fame fort of 
care be taken of them that is allowed 
to other poultry at the time of their 
fetting. 

For this reafon the (careful houfe- 
wife will fee when her goofe rifes from 
the neft, to fet a quantity of proper 
food before her, that fhe may find it 
without trouble, and fome large veffel 
of water, that fhe may wafh herfelf. 
The beft food is bran fcalded, or oats. 
When fhefets near a pond or river, fhe 
fhould not be hindered from bathing 
herfelf, for (tie will not fet kindly if 



fhe be not allowed to follow nature ; 
and this bathing of herfelf at large is 
much better for her than the warning 
in any veffel that can be fet ; though 
that is a very needful expedient where 
other water is not near. 

The time of a goofe's fetting is from 
fix and twenty to thirty days, accord- 
ing to the feafon. They generally fet a 
day or two longer in colder than in 
warm weather, and fometimes the dif- 
ference amounts to three or four. 

The belt way of breeding up tha 
goflings from the egg is this :— Let 
them be kept within doors ten days, ia 
which time they are to be fed with bar- 
ley-meal in milk, or with ground malt, 
or bran fcalded with milk. After this 
they fhould be fuffered to go out in the 
middle of the day, and at about a fort- 
night old, the goofe fhould be fuffered 
to intice them to the water. 

They are thus to be tended and fed 
occafionally, till they have got ihength 
enough to defend themfelves againft 
vermin, and are able to provide for 
themfelves after the example of their 
parents. For feveral days after their 
fir ft going out, they fhould be brought 
into the houfe at night, and fhould 
have fomebody to watch them, for they 
are poor defencelefs creatures, and a 
prey to every tiling; but when they are 
fo far grown up as to feed well, and 
walk ftoutly, they may be left without 
danger to fhift for themfelves. With 
lefs care than this, broods of geefe will 
often fucceed very tolerably, but this 
is no great matter, and it in a manner 
enfures their fafety. 

There are" two different periods at 
which the goofe is fattened for the 
market ; firft, when it is very young; 
and, fecondly, when it is grown. It 
is riiflinguiihed at thefe times by two 
different names; at the one it is called 
the green goofe, and at the other the 
ftubble goofe. For the preparing it in 
the mod advantageous manner for ei- 
ther of thefe, it is to be fattened by a 
proper manner of feeding. 

The right age for taking up the gof- 
ling in order to fatten it for a gieen 
goofe, is at five weeks ; fome take it 
up at a month, and others at fix weeks 
old, for this purpofe, and either way 
dees very well ; but, for a general 
rule, the middle time between thofe 
two is beft. The proper food for them 
is ground malt, or oats boiled, given 

in 



G E In 



G I G 



»«3cJ plenty three times a day with 
milk, or milk and water for the drink. 
If they be fhut up in a quiet dark 
place they thrive the fafter ; and by 
this means they may be brought into 
excellent condition in a fortnight or 
three weeks. 

For the fattening of the ftubble 
goofe, the fame method and the fame 
food are to be ufed, and in a fortnight 
or three weeks keeping, it will be rea- 
dy for the market. 

If, while a goofe is in fattening, it 
naufeates its food, and does not thrive 
as it fhould, let there be fet before it a 
difhoffmall and clean gravel. It will 
peck up this at times, and by that 
means recover its appetite. 

GELDING. A caftrated horfe. 

GELTGIMMER. A barren ewe. 

GELDER-ROSE, [Viburnum] A 
fpecies of Viburnum, or Way-faring 
tree. It is called Marfh Elder, and 
grows naturally in marfhy grounds. 
It bears a globular flower. Another 
kind is a native of Carolina, which 
rifes with a fhrubby (talk, tothe height 
of eight or ten feet, with white flowers 
and red berries. 

They are propagated chiefly by lay- 
ers in autumn. 

GENET. A fmall-fized well-pro- 
portioned Spanifli horfe. 

GENTIAN, [Gerrtlana.~\ This plant 
grows naturally in Switzerland and the 
mountainous parts of Germany. It 
grows to the height of four or five 
feet. The leaves are of an oblong 
oval fhape, and bears yellow flowers, 
which come out in whirls at thejoints. 
It grows likewife in fome parts of Eng- 
land, but the dried roots are molt 
commonly brought from Germany, 
&c. The root is a ftroiig bitter, and 
as fuch very frequently made ufe of in 
practice. In tafte it is lefs exception- 
able than moft of the ether fubftances 
of this clafs : infufiens of it, flavouied 
with orange peel, arefuffkiently grate- 
ful. It is the capital ingredient in the 
bitter wine, tinclure, and infufion of 
the fhcp«i. 

A poifonous root has been lately 
difcovoured among fome of the Gen- 
tian brought to London; the ufe of 
which occalioned violent diforders, and 
fometimes death. This is eafily diftin- 
guifhable by its being internally of a 
white colour, and void of bitternefs. 
This poifonous fimple feems to be the 



root of the Thora Valdenfis of Ray, 
the Acconitum Primum Pardalianches 
of Gefner; a plant, which Lobel in- 
forms us, the inhabitants of fome parts 
of the Alps ufed formerly to empoifon 
darts with. 

There are feveral fpecies of this 
plant, one of which grows naturally 
on the Alps, a low plant, bearing large 
bell-thaped deep azure flowers, and is 
called Gentianella. 

GENTIANELLA, [Gentiav.a Acau- 
lisj] Alpine Gentian. See Gentian. 

GENUS. A clafs, a kind, compre- 
hending many fpecies. 

GEOFE, or Gofe. A mow of hay 
or corn. 

GEORGICS. Matters relating to 
Agriculture. 

GERMANDER, [Chamatdrys.] This 
is a low fhrubby plant, growing natu- 
rally in France and Germany, having 
a few fhort branches, with oval leaves, 
and reddifh- coloured flowers. The 
leaves, tops, and feeds have a bitter 
tafte, with fome degree of aftringency 
and aromatic flavour. They are re- 
commended as fudorific, diuretic, and 
emmenagogue, and for ftrengthening 
the ftomach and vifcera in general. 
With fome they have been in great 
efleem in intermitting fevers ; as alfo 
in fcrophulous and other chronic dif- 
orders. 

Tree Germander, [Teuorium.'] A 
fhrub growing in the South of France, 
&c. with a ftalk rifing to the height of 
two or three feet, bearing flowers of a 
dirty white colour, propagated by cut- 
tings- planted in Spring. 

Water Germander, [Scordium.] 
This grows naturally in the Ifle of Ely, 
and feveral other fenny parts of Eng- 
land. It has hairy indented leaves, 
and purple flowers growing clofe to 
the bottom of the leaves. It is a me- 
dicinal plant, and fuppofed to be de- 
cbftruent, fudorific, diuretic, Sec. but 
prefent practice pays little regard to it. 

GERM, 7 n . . , , „ 

/^tDB'r'iv.T t J^ ll d, tender (hoot. 

GERMEN,}^ /7ezoSf/'7S. 

GHERKIN, A pickling cucumber. 

GIBBE. A worn-out animal. 

GIGGS. Small fwellings or blad- 
ders on the infide of the lips and palate 
of a horfe. 

They are cured by flitting them o- 
pen with a knife or lancet, and waffl- 
ing them afterwards with fait and vi- 
negar. 

GILL, 



CIL 



G L A 



GILL. A rivulet. A quarter of a 
pint in meafure. 

GILL go by the Ground. Ground-Ivy. 

Clove GILLYFLOWER. See Car- 
nation. 

Sixteen 1 % Gu lyflower. See 
Dame's Violet. 

Stock Gillyflower, \Che\ranthu % . J 
This is a very beautiful flower; the 
kinds are, i . Wall flower, with its va- 
riations of dwarf yellow, large yellow, 
bloody, white, ftraw-coloured, and va- 
riegated ; 2. Hoary (lock; 3. Ten 
weeks flock; 4. Dwarf or Virginia 
flock, with abundance of varieties. 

The firft fpecies with all its varieties 
are robuft bufhy evergreen triennials 
and perennials, flowering principally in 
May, June, and July, often exhibiting 
their flowery fpikes two or three feet 
high. The Angle forts produce plenty 
of feed, from whence both Angle 
and double flowering plants are pro- 
duced ; the double kinds may be pro- 
pagated by flips, cuttings, and layers, 
in May or June. 

The hoary flock hasfeveral varieties, 
as red or Queen's flock; the fcarlet or 
Brompton flock, which in its double 
ftate makes a molt noble and grand 
appearance, the flowers being often as 
large as fmall rofes, numerous and 
clofely placed, frequently growing to 
the height of four feet, and exhibiting 
a full bloom for five or fix weeks. The 
purple or Twickenham ftock,with pur- 
ple Angle and double flowers ; and the 
white flock. All which are hardy 
evergreen biennials or perennials, 
blowing in May, June, and July ; the 
Angles produce plenty of feed in Au- 
tumn, from whence Angle and double 
flowering plants are produced. 

The varieties of the ten- weeks flock 
are, the common hoary leaved, and the 
wall flower leaved ; thefe are annuals, 
and the Angle forts produce plenty of 
feed in Autumn. They flower from 
July till Autumn. 

Dwarf annual or Virginia flock fel- 
dom rifes more than Ax inches high, 
fending out many branches from the 
root, which fpread near the ground, 
and £row irregular. 

They may all be propagated by fow- 
Ing the feeds in common ground in the 
fpring, and afterwards tranfplanting ; 
the beautiful double forts of the per- 
ennials may be propagated by cuttings, 
flips, or layers. 

3 A 



There may be reckoned fome other 
fpecies, but thefe are the moft in re- 
queft. 

The flowers of the wall-flower are 
faid to be cordial, anodyne, aperient, 
and emmenagogue. 

G 1 L l run by the Street. Soapwort. 

GIMMER's-LAMB. An ewe lamb. 

GINGER, [Zingiber.] This plant 
is propagated by parting of the roots, 
but requires the alTiftance of a ft»ve to 
preferve it. It is a native of the Eaft- 
Indie:, but is now cultivated in the 
Britifh colonies of the Weft and the 
warmer parts of America. The roots 
are ufed in medicine, and for culinary 
purpofes, as a warm aromatic. 

Wild Ginger, [Zerumbet.] This 
plant grows naturally in India, the roots 
are larger than the true ginger, but 
knotted in the fame manner ; it is pro- 
pagated as ginger. 

GINSENG. A root brought to us 
from China and America; great vir- 
tues are afcribed to it by the Afiatics, 
as a cordial and reftorative. 

G1RASOLE. Turnfole. 

GIRTH. The band of the faddle 
which fixes it on, going round the hor- 
fe's belly from fide to fide. 

GIRTH. Compafs ; fize round. 

To Gise Land. To take cattle to 
feed. {£/ flgtJ /%. Sac a/i/& - 

GITH. Guinea pepper. 

GLADE. A lawn or opening in a 
wood. 

GLADEN. Sword grafs. 

GLANDER.S. A diftemperln hor- 
fes which generally proves fatal. At 
firft, when it is only an ozena, or ulcer 
of the internal membrane of the nofe, 
it is eafily cured; but when of long 
continuance, it is very dangerous and 
contagious. 

All horfes that are faid to die of the 
glanders, are infadldeftroyed by a puU 
monary confumption, the lungs being 
deftroyed. In the firft ftage of this 
malady the following remedy may be 
ufed : 

Take a bundle of green afh twigs 
about an inch diameter; burn 
them to a flaming coal on a clean 
hearth, then quench them in a gal- 
lon of beer, (<■> as to make a ftrong 
lye. Raife the horfe's head, and 
with a drenching horn pour three 
fpoonfuls of it down each noftrij 
twice a day till he is well. 

In the fecond flage^ when the lungs 
v»re 



G L O 



G O A 



are contaminated, this remedy cannot 
be pronounced effectual; in this cafe, 
the following has been often known to 
fucceed : 

Mix powder of myrrh, ginger, 3nd 
fulphur together in a warm mefh 
of bran 5 place this mefh in a lit- 
tle tub under the horfe's nofe with- 
out letting him eat it. Cover his 
head over with a blanket or rug fo 
that ail the air lie breathes may be 
firongly impregnated with the in- 
gredients. When the mefh is 
grown cool enough, put it into a 
Iiorfe-hair or clofe bag, like thofe 
the hackney coachmen ufe for feed- 
ing their horfes on their ftands in 
London ; draw the bag over the 
horfe's nofe, and tie it over his 
head. 
By the time it is cold, have another 
ready to apply hot in the fame manner, 
and repeat the procefs fix or eight 
times the firft day. This will draw a 
large quantity of mucus (or flime) from 
the nofe of the beaft, and greatly re- 
lieve him. Renew the application 
every third day, and it will generally 
prove effectual. 

GLANDIFEROUS. Applied to 
trees bearing acorns or mafts, as oak, 
beech, &c. 

GLASSWORT, [Kali.] The plant 
from whence pot-am is made. See Al- 
kaline Salt. It grows on the fea 
eoafis in many parts of Europe. 

Glastonbury Thorn. This 
fpecies of thorn produces fome bran- 
ches of flowers in winter, and flowers 
again in the fpring, and in no other re- 
fpedt differs from the common haw- 
thorn. 

GLEANING. Picking up the ears 
pf corn left behind by the gatherers. 

GLEBE. Properly fignifies the foil 
or ground in general ; but is particu- 
larly applied to the land poffeffed as 
part of the revenue of an eeclefiaftical 
benefice. 

GLEN. A valley ; a dale, 
GLOBE Daisy, [Globuhria.'] Blue 
daify; there are feveral fpecies of this 
plant growing naturally in Italy and 
Germany ; the flowers grow on foot T 
ftalks fix inches high, of a globular 
form. They are propagated by part- 
ing the roots. 

Globe Crowfoot, [Trollius.'} 
Globe ranunculus, Locker gowlans. 
A plant found wild in feveral counties 



of England and Wales, with a ftalkri- 
fing near two feet high, and bearing a 
large yellow flower, fhaped like the 
crowfoot of a globular form ; it flowers 
in May and June, and the feeds ripen 
in Auguft. 

Globe Amaranth. See Ama- 
ranthoides. 

Globe Thistle, [Echinops'] There 
are three or four fpecies which blow 
with blue or white globular flowers, 
propagated by feeds fown in the fpring. 
One fort, a native of Greece, is belt 
propagated by its creeping roots. 

CLYSTER. See Clyster. 

GOAD. A pointed inflrumentto 
drive oxen. 

GOAR VETCHES. Summer vet- 
ches. *r / €Jt ,^W» / . 

GOAT. A genus of animals, the 
characters of which are thefe : that it is 
covered with hair, not with wool ; that 
its horns are lefs crooked than thofe of 
the fheep, and that it has a beard hang- 
ing down from its chin, and is of a 
flrong fmell. 

Goats may be of great advantage to 
the farmers in fome parts of the king- 
dom, as they will live in rocky barren 
countries, w here nothing elfe can get a 
fupport for life. They will climb the 
fteepeft rocks, and there browfe upon 
briars, heath, and fhrubs of various 
kinds, which other creatures will not 
tafte of. They will feed on grafs in 
paftures ; but as they love browfing 
on trees much better, great care mufl 
be taken to keep them from valuable 
plantations. 

The greateft advantage of thefe crea- 
tures is their milk, which they yield in 
large quantities ; and which is accoun- 
ted the beft milk of all animals. They 
mix this and cow's milk together in 
many parts of the kingdom, and a very 
valuable kind of cheefe is made of it. 
Befides this, the kids or young goats 
are very fine food, and the beft kinds 
bring forth two or three at a time, and 
that twice a year. 

Goats hair is alfo valuable, and may 
be fheared as the wool from fheep, it is 
excellent for making ropes to be ufed 
in the water, as they will laft a great 
while longer than thofe made the com- 
mon way. A fort of fluff is alfo made 
of it in fome places. The beft kind of 
goats for keeping to advantage fhould 
be chofen in this manner : the male 
fhould hays a large body, his hair 
fhould, 






GOL 



G O U 



fliould be long, and his legs rtrait and 
ftiffj the neck plain and fhort, the head 
fmail and flender, the horns large, the 
eyes prominent, and beard long. The 
female fhould have a large udder, with 
large teats, and no horns, or very fmall 
ones. They mould be kept in flocks, 
that they may not ftraggle ; and they 
fhould have good fhelter both fummer 
and winter, the heat and cold being 
both prejudicial to them. They fhould 
be coupled in December, and mould 
have no litter in winter, but only a pa- 
ved floor kept clean. The kids are to 
be brought up for the table in the fame 
manner as our lambs are. They are 
recommended to lie among liorfes, their 
fmell, as fuppofed, preventing many 
diflempers in thofe cattle. 

GOATS-BEARD, [Tragopogon.] 
There are feveral fpecies of this plant 
growing wild in the meadows of Eng- 
land, Auftn'a, and Germany, &c. the 
different fpecies bear yellow and blue 
flowers ; they are propagated by feeds. 

Goats Rue, \GaIega,~\ This plant 
grows wild in Italy, and produces a 
kind of kidney fhaped feeds. There 
are two or three kinds, but not much 
in eftimation. 

G»ats Stones. Fool ftones, Or- 
chis. 

Goats Thorn. See Tra^acanth. 

GODSGOOD. Yeaft, baVm. 

GOLD OF PLEASURE, [Mifa- 
grum.] This is an annual plant grow- 
ing naturally in the corn fields in the 
fouth of France and Italy, with 3 ftalk 
riling to the height of eighteen inches 
or two feet, having loofe fpikes of yel- 
low flowers fucceeded by capfules 
which are filled with red feeds. There 
are three or four fpecies which are all 
propagated by feeds fown in Autumn. 

Golden Flower Gentle. Amaranthus. 

GOLDEN ROD, [Solidago.] This 
plant is found wild on heaths and in 
woods, producing fpikes of yellow 
flowers ; in Auguft the leaves have a 
moderately aftringent bitter tafte, and 
are recommended in diforders proceed- 
ing from a laxity of the vifcera. There 
are near thirty fpecies of this plant cul- 
tivated in gardens, fome of which 
flower in July, and others which con- 
tinue in fucceiTion till November and 
even till Chriftmas, They are propa- 
gated by parting the roots, and by feeds 
fown after they are ripe. 

Golden Rsunet. An apple fo 
called. 



GOLDILOCKS. See Cajidonj. 

Golding. An apple fo called. 

GOOLE. A ditch. 
• GOME. Coom. /t ~» 

GOOSE. See Geese. L/a/iJ&l-, 

GOOSEBERRY TREE, [Grojfula- 
ria.'] There are three or four different 
fpecies and abundant varieties of this 
plant cultivated for the fruit. They 
are propagated by cuttings, the beft 
time for which is in autumn. 

American or Barbadoes Gooseberry, 
[Parefcia.] This is a trailing plant, 
which bears a fruit about the fize of a 
walnut, having tufts of fmall leaves 
on it, and a whitifh mucilaginous pulp 
within. It may be propagated by cut- 
tings during the fummer months, but 
requires the amftance of the ftove or 
bark bed during the winter months. 

GOOSE GRASS. See Clivers. > 

GOOSE FOOT, [Chenopedium.] 
Wild orach. There are feveral fpecies 
of this plant, fome of which are very 
troublefome weeds growing naturally 
on dunghills and in ditches in many 
parts of England ; others, as the fum- 
mer cyprefs, &c. are beautiful orna- 
ments to a garden. 

The oak of Jeiufalem, the oak of 
Cappadocia, Mexican orach, and ltone 
crop tree, are all fpecies of goofe-foot. 

GORZE,? r a 

GOSS, '5 F " lze - 

GO TO BED AT NOON. Goats- 
beard. 

GOULANS. Corn marygold. 

GOURD, [Cucurbita.] The fpecies 
are, i. Long gourd; a. Greater round 
gourd, or pompion; 3. Watery gourd ; 
4. Squafh. The two firft forts may 
be propagated by fowing their feeds in 
April on a hot bed, and the plants 
tr«snfplanted on another moderate bed, 
where they fhould be brought up har- 
dily, and have a great deal of air to 
flrengthen them ; and when they have 
got four or five ieaves, they fhould be 
tranfplanted into holes m.ide upon an 
old dunghill, or fome fuch place, al- 
lowing them a great deal cf room to 
run, for fome of the forts will fpread to 
a great diftance. 

There are feveral varieties of this 
fruit, which differ in their form and 
fize, but they feldom continue to pro- 
duce the fame kinds of Jtruit for three 
years together. 

The third fort is very common in 
moft parts of America, where it is cul- 
3 A x tivated 



See Furze, 



GOU 



G R A 



vated as culinary fruit ; of this fort 
there are alfo feveral varieties, which 
differ in their form and fize j fome of 
thefe are flat, others round ; fome are 
fhaped like a bottle, and others are ob- 
long, their outer cover or rind being 
.white when ripe, and covered with 
large protuberances or warts. The 
fruit are commonly gathered when they 
are half grown, and boiled by the in- 
habitants of America to eat as a fauce 
with their meat. The fourth fort is 
alfo very common in North America, 
where it is cultivated for the fame pur- 
pofes as the third. This very often 
grows with a ftrong, bufhy, ereft ftalk, 
without putting out runners from the 
fide as the other forts, but frequently 
varies ; for after it has been cultivated 
a few years in the fame garden, the 
plants will become trailing like the 
others, and extend their branches to as 
great a diftance. 

Bitter Gourd, See Bitter Apple. 
Indian Tree Gourd. Calabafh tree. 
See Calabash, 

Sour Gourd, \_Adanfonla.~\ Mon- 
kies bread. This tree was firft defcri- 
bed by Profper Alpinus, in his book of 
Egyptian plants j but it is now known 
to grow in feveral other countries, par- 
ticularly at Senegal in Africa, where 
there are many trees now growing, 
whofe ftems are of a much greater bulk 
than any other trees yet known. Mr. 
Adanfon, who was four years in that 
country, to examine the natural pro- 
ductions of it, meafured the ftems of 
feveral of thefe trees, which were from 
feventy-nve to eighty feet in circumfe- 
rence j the greater branches of thefe 
trees, he fays, are equal to the largefi 
trees he had ever feen in Europe. 

The fruit is almoft as large as a man's 
head, the fheli is woody and clofe, ha ■ 
vinga greenifh downy coat ; it is divi- 
ded into ten, twelve, or fourteen cells 
within, which contain a good number 
of kidney fhaped feeds, as large as the 
tip of a man's little finger; thefe are 
clofely funounded with a mealy pulp 
of an acid talte. 

As this tree is a native of very hot 
countries, the plants will not thrive in 
the open air in England in fummer, 
therefore they muft be continually kept 
plunged in the bark bed in the ftove; 
and in warm weather the frefh air 
fhould be admitted to them every day, 
but in winter they muft be kept warm ; 



while the plants are in a growing ftate, 
they muft be frequently refrefhed with 
water, but when they are deftitute of 
leaves, it muft be given fparingly, for 
too much wet will then rot their roots. 
It loves a light rich loamy foil. 
Herb of GRACE. Rue. 
GRAFTING. A mode of propa- 
gation particularly ufed for moil forts 
of fruit trees, being the only certain 
method to continue the approved va- 
rieties in their kind, and is alfo ufed for 
propagating many forts of flowering 
fhrubs and timber trees. 

With refpedl to the flocks, or trees, 
on which to perform the operation of 
grafting, it is moft commonly per- 
formed upon the ftems of young trees, 
raifed from the feed, layers or cuttings 
for that purpofe ; though they are the 
moft commonly raifed from feed, ex- 
cept in particular cafes ; and when de- 
figned for the purpofe of grafting 
upon, are always denominated flocks, 
which, when from about the fize of a 
goofe quill, to an inch or more in dia- 
meter, are of due fize for receiving the 
grafts; obferving that previous to the 
infertion of the grafts, the head of each 
ftock muft be cut off, from within 
about fix inches to as many feet of the 
ground, according whether the tree is 
defigned for a dwarf, or a half, or full 
ftandard ; and one graft is commonly 
inferted into each ftock, though in 
large flocks fometimes two or more 
grafts are inferted: remarking, that if 
intended to raife dwarf trees, the ftock, 
at the time of grafting, muft always be 
headed down within a few inches of 
the ground, for the infertion of the 
graft ; and for ftandards, the heading 
of the ftock for the infertion of the 
graft may either be near the ground, 
and train up one of the firft: fhoots 
from the graft to form a ftem ; or if 
you defign the ftock to form the ftem, 
as is common for ftandard cherries, 
&c. it muft be fuffered to grow fix or 
feven feet high, fo head it at four, five, 
or fix feet height for the reception of 
the grafts. 

Grafting is alfo performed upon old 
trees, or fuch as already bear fruit, 
particularly when it is defigned to 
change the forts, or have more than 
one fort on the fame tree; or to renew 
the whole, or any particular branch of 
a tree; in either cafe, inferting the 
graft 



GRA 



G R A 



graft into the upright branches, fome- 
times heading the branches down for 
its reception, and fometimes inferting 
it into their rides without heading 
them down. But as there are five or 
fix different methods of grafting, each 
is exhibited. 

As to the method of raifing the dif- 
ferent forts of ftocks for grafting, it is 
mod commonly by feed, kernels, or 
ftones of the refpeclive fruits, fowed 
in autumn or fpiing, in beds of good 
earth, covering them with mould about 
an inch or two deep, according to their 
forts or fizes ; they will come up early 
in fummer, and be fit to plant in nur- 
fery rows, two feet afunder, in winter 
and fpring following; and in thefpring 
after, many of them will be fit to whip 
graft ; but when they are from two to 
five or fix years old, they will be fuit- 
able for one or other of the feveral me- 
thods of grafting. 

Stocks are alfo fometimes raifed by 
layers and cuttings of the young moots 
of particular trees of each refpective 
genus, when defigned to have ftocks 
for grafting particular varieties of fruit 
upon. 

Stocks arelikewife raifed from fuck- 
ers arifing from the roots of the trees 
of the refpective forts, tranfplanting 
them into the nurfery in autumn ; to 
remain a year or two, and then may 
be grafted. 

The grafts or cions, with which the 
grafting is effected, are young fhoots 
of the laft fummer's growth, for they 
muft not be mere than one year, and 
fuch as grow on the outfide bran- 
ches, and robuft but moderate moot- 
ers, fuch alfo as are firm and well 
ripened, fhould always bechofen from 
healthful trees, obferving, that the mid- 
dle part of each fhoot is always the beft 
grafts; cut at the time of grafting, to 
five or fix inches in length, or fo as to 
Jiave four or five good eyes or buds, 
but fhould preferve them at fulllength 
till grafting time, then prepared as 
hereafter directed. 

They fhould be collected or cut from 
the trees in February, in mild weather, 
before their buds begin to fwell, or ad- 
vance much for mooting : in collect- 
ing them, chufe fuch as have not made 
any lateral or fide fhoots ; cut them off 
at full length, and if they are not to 
be ufed as foon as they are collected, 
lay their lower ends in fome dry earth 



in a warm border til! grafting time, and 
if fevere weather fhould happen, cover 
them with dry litter. 

The proper tools and other materi- 
als ufed in grafting are, 

A ftrong knife for cutting off the 
heads of the ftocks, previous to the in- 
fertion of the graft, alfo a fmall hand- 
faw for the occafionalufe in cutting off 
the heads of large ftocks. 

A common grafting knife, or ftrong 
fharp penknife, for cutting and fhaping 
the grafts ready for infertion ; alfo to 
flope and form the ftocks for the re- 
ception of the grafts. 

A fiat grafting duffel and fmall mal- 
let for clefting large ftocks, in cleft- 
grafting, for the reception of the graft. 

A quantity of new bafs firings for 
bandages, for tying the grafted parts 
clofe, to fee u re the grafts, and promote 
their fpeecly union with the ftock. 

And a quantity of grafting clay, for 
claying clofely round the grafts after 
their infertion and binding, to defend 
the part from being dried by the fun and 
wind, or too much liquified by wet, or 
pinched by cold ; for thefe parts ought 
to be fo clofely furroqnded with a coat 
of clay in fuch a manner as effectu- 
ally to guard them from all weathers, 
which would prove injurious to young 
grafts, anddefcroy their cementing pro- 
perty, fp as to prevent the junction; 
therefore a kind of ftiff loamy mortar 
muft be prepared of ftrong fat loam, 
or in default thereof, any fort of tough 
binding clay, either of which fhould be 
laid in an heap, adding thereto about a 
fourth of frefli horfe dung free from 
litter, and a portion of cut hay, mix- 
ing the whole well together, and add a 
little water, then let the whole be well 
beaten with a ftick upon a floor, or 
other hard fubftance; and as it be- 
comes too dry apply more water, at 
every beating turn it over, and always 
continue beating it well at top till it 
becomes flat ; which muft be repeated 
more or lefs according to the nature of 
the clay, but fhould be feveral times 
beaten the firft day; and next morn- 
ing repeat the beating, ftill moiftening 
it with water, and by thus repeating 
the beating fix or eight times every clay 
for two or three days, or every other 
day at leaft for a week, it will be in 
proper order for ufe ; obferving it 
fhoulcl be prepared a week at leaft" be- 
fore 



G R A 



G R A 



fore it is ufed, but if a month it will 
be better. 

The feafon for performing the ope- 
ration of grafting is February and 
March, though when the work is per- 
formed in February, it for the general 
part proves the molt fuccef=ful ; more 
efpecially for cherries, plumbs, and 
pears. March grafting is well adap- 
ted for apples. 

There am different methods of graft- 
ing in practice, termed, whip grafting, 
cleft- grafting, crown- grafting, cheek- 
grafting, fide-grafting, root-grafting, 
and grafting by approach or inarching, 
but whip grafting & cleft-grafting are 
moft commonly uied, and whip-graft- 
ing moil of all, as being the molt ex- 
peditious and fuccefiul of any. 

Whip-Grafting, This being the mo.'l 
fuccefsful method of all grafting is the 
moft commonly practifed in all the 
nurferies; it is always performed upon 
fmill .flocks, from about the lize of a 
goofe-quill, to half an inch or a iittle 
more or lefs in diameter, but the nearer 
the flock and graft approach in fize the 
better; it is called whip-grafting, be- 
caufe the grafts 3nd Itccks being nearly 
of a fize, are Hoped on one fide, fb as 
to fit each other, and tied together in 
the manner of whips, or joints of ang- 
ling rods, &c. and the method is as fol- 
lows: 

Having the cions or grafts, knife, 
bandages, and clay, ready, then begin 
the work by cutting off the head of the 
flock at fome clear fmooth part thereof; 
this done, cut one fide doping upward, 
about an inch and half, or near two in- 
ches in length, and make a notch or 
fmall flit near the upper part of the 
flope downward, about half an inch 
long, to receive the tongue of thecion; 
then prepare the cion, cutting it to 
five or fix inches in length, forming 
the lower end alio in a floping manner, 
to as exaclly to fit the floped part of 
the flock, if cut from the fame place, 
that the rinds of both may join evenly 
in every part; and make a flit fo as to 
form a fort of tongue to fit the flit 
made in the flope of the flock : then 
piace the graft, inferting the tongue of 
it into the flit of the flock, applying 
the parts as evenly and clofe as poffi- 
ble; and immediately tye the parts 
clofely together with a firing of bafs, 
bringing it in a neat manner feveral 
times round the flock and graft; then 



clay the whole over near an inch thick" 
on every fide, from about half an inch or 
more below the bottom of the graft, to 
an inch over the top of the ftock, finifh- 
ing the coat of clay in a kind of oval 
globular form, rather longways up and 
down, clofing it effectually about the 
cion, and every part, fo as no fun, wet, 
or wind may penetrate, to prevent 
which, is the whole intention of clay- 
ing ; obferving to examine it now and 
then, to fee if it any where cracks or 
fails off, and if it does, it mutt be in- 
ltantly repaired with frefh clay. 

This fort of grafting may bealfo per- 
formed, if neceffary, upon the young 
fhoots of any bearing tree, if intended 
to alter the forts of fruits, or have more 
than one fort on the fame tree. 

Ey the middle or latter end of May, 
the grafts will be well united with the 
flock, as will be evident by the rtioot- 
ing of the graft ; then the clay fhould 
be wholly taken away, but fuffer the 
bafs bandage to remain fome time lon- 
ger, until the united parts feem to 
fwell, and be too much confined by the 
ligatures; then take the tying wholly 
off. 

Cleft Grafting. This is called cleft- 
grafting, becaufe the flock being too 
large for whip-grafting is cleft or flit 
down the middle for the reception of 
the graft j and is performed upon 
flocks from about one to two inches 
diameter. 

Firfl with a flrong knife cut off the 
head of the (lock, or if the flock is very 
large, it may beheaded with a faw; 
and cut one fide floping upwards about 
an inch and a half to the top; then 
proceed with a flrong knife or chiffel, 
to cleave the flock at top, crofs-way 
the flope, fixing the knife or chiffel, to- 
wards the back of the flope, and with 
your mallet ftrikeit, foas to cleave the 
llock about two inches, or long enough 
to admit the graft, keeping it open with 
the chilfel ; this done, prepare the cion, 
cutting it to fuch length as to leave 
four or five eyes, the lower part of 
which being floped on each fide, wedge 
fafhion, an inch and a half, or two in- 
ches long, making one fide to a thin 
edge, the other much thicker, leaving 
the rind thereon, which fide muft be 
placed outward in the flock; the cion 
being thus formed, and the cleft in the 
flock being made and kept open with 
the chiffel, place the graft therein a: 

the 



G R A 



GRA 



th« back of the flock the thickeft fide 
outward, placing the whole cut part 
down into the cleft of the flock, ma- 
king the rind of the fiock and graft 
join exadlly; then removing the graft- 
ing duffel, each fide of the ciett will 
clofely fqueeze the graft, fo as to hold 
it faft ; it is then to be bound with a 
ligature of bafs, and clayed over, as 
obferved in whip-grafting, leaving 
three or four eyes of the cions unco- 
vered. 

If intended to graft any pretty large 
flocks or branches by this method, two 
or more grafts may be inferred in each ; 
in this cafe the head mult be cut off 
horizontally, making no flope on the 
fide, but fmooth the top, then cleave it 
quite acrofs, and place a graft on each 
fide, as the flock may be cleft in two 
places, and infert two grafts in each 
cleft ; they are thus to be tied and 
clayed as in other methods. 

This method of grafting may be per- 
formed upon the branches of bearing 
trees, when intended either to renew 
the wood, or change the fort of fruit. 

Towards the latter end of May, or 
the beginning of June, the jundlion of 
the graft and flock in either methods, 
will be effectually formed, and the graft 
begin to fhoot, when the clay may be 
taken off, and in a fortnight or three 
weeks after, takeoff alfo the bandages. 
Crown-Grafting. Th i s k i nd of graf t- 
ing is commonly pradlifed upon fuch 
flocks as are too large to cleave, and is 
often performed upon the lai ge bran- 
ches of apples and pear trees, Sec. that 
bear fruit, when it is intended to 
change the forts, or renew the tree with 
frefh-bearing wood, and is termed 
crown-grafting, becaufe the llock or 
branch being headed down, feveral 
grafts areinferted at top all around be- 
twixt the wood and bark, fo as to give 
it a crown like appearance ; obferving 
that this kind of grafting fhould not 
be performed until March, or early in 
April, for then the fap being in motion 
renders the bark and wood of the 
flock much eafier to be feparated for 
the admiffion of the graft. 

The manner of performing this fort 
of grafting is as follows : 

Firft cut off the head of the flock or 
branch with a faw horizontally, and 
pare the top fmooth, then having the 
grafts, cut on one fide of each flat, and 
fomewhat floping, an inch and half 



long, forming a fort of fhoulder at top 
of the flope to relt upon the crown of 
the flock; and then raifing the rind of 
the ilock with a wedge, fo as to admit 
the cion between that and the wood 
two inches down, which done, placs 
the grafts with the flat fide next the 
wood, thrulling it down far enough 
for the fhoulder to reil upon the top of 
the flock, and in this manner may b« 
put three, four, five, or more grafts in 
one large flock or branch. 

When the grafts are all thus inferr- 
ed, let the whole be tied tight and well 
clayed, obferving to leave two or three 
eyes of each graft uncovered, but rai- 
fmg the clay an inch above the top of 
the ftock, fo as to throw the wet 
quickly off, without lodging about the 
grafted parts, which would ruin the 
whole work. 

Crown-grafting may alfo be per- 
formed, by making feveral clefts in the 
crown of the flock, and inferting the 
grafts round the top into the clefts. 

The grafts will be pretty well uni- 
ted with the flock, and exhibit a Hate 
of growth by the end of May, or be- 
ginning of June, and the clay may then 
be taken away. 

The trees grafted by this method will 
fucceed extremely well, but for the firft 
two or three years, have this inconve- 
nience attending them, of being liable 
to be blown out of the ftock by vio- 
lent winds, which mufl be remedied 
by tying long flicks to the body of the 
flock or branch, and each graft tied up 
to one of the flicks. 

Cheek-Grafting. Cut the head of the 
ftock off horizontally, and pare the top 
fmooth, then cut one fide Hoping an 
inch and half, or two inches deep, and 
cut the lower part of the graft Hoping 
the fame length, making a fort of 
fhoulder at top of the floped part ; it is 
then to be placed upon the floped part 
of the flock, relling the fhoulder upon 
the crown of it, bind it with bafs, and 
finifh with a covering of clay, as in the 
other methods. 

Side-Grafting. This is done by in- 
ferting grafts into the fides of the bran- 
ches without heading them down, and 
may be praflifed upon trees to fill up 
any vacancy, or may do it for variety, 
to have feveral forts of apples, pears, 
plumbs, &c. upon the fame tree. 

It is performed thus : fix upon fuch 

parts of the branches, where wood is 

wanting 



G R A 



G R A 



wanting to furnifh the head, or any 
part of the tree, there fiope off the 
bark and a little of the wood, and cut 
the lower end of the grafts to fit the 
part as near as poffible, then join them 
to the branch, and tye them with bafs, 
and clay them over. 

Root-Griping. This is done by 
•whip-grafting cicns upon pieces of the 
root of any tree of the fame genus, and 
plant the root where it is to remain ; 
it will take rcct, draw nourishment, 
and feed the graft. 

Grafting by Approach, or Inarching. This 
fort of grafting is, when the flocks de- 
signed to be grafted, and the tree from 
which you intend to take the grafts, 
either grow fo near, or can be placed fo 
near together, that the branch or graft 
may be made to approach the ftock, 
without feparatir.g it from the tree, 
till after its union or junction with the 
flock; fo that the branch or <;raft be- 
ing bent to the ftock, they together 
form a fort of arch ; it is called graft- 
ing by approach or inarching, and as 
being a fure method, is commonly 
pradtifed upon fuch trees as are with 
difficulty made to fucceed by any of 
the former ways of grafting, as hinted 
in their propagation. 

When intended to propagate any 
kind of tree or fhrub by this method of 
grafting, if the tree, Sec. is of the hardy 
kind, and growing in the full ground, 
a proper quantity of young plants for 
flocks mult be fet round it ; and when 
grown of a proper height, the work of 
inarching muft be performed, or if the 
branches of the tree you defign to graft 
from are too high for the flocks, in that 
cafe ftocks mufl be planted in pots, and 
a flight flare mu.'l be erected around the 
tree, of due height to reach the bran- 
ches, and the pots containing the flocks 
mufl be placed upon the ftage. 

As to the method of performing the 
work, obfsrve that in this method of 
grafting, it is fometimes performed 
with the head of the ftock cut off, and 
fometimes with the head left on till the 
graft is united with the ftock, though 
by previously heading the flock, the 
work is much ealkr performed; and 
having no top, its whole effort will be 
directed to the nouriihment of the 
graft; having however the ftocks pro- 
perly placed, either planted in the 
jrround, or in pots around the tree to 
be propagated; then make the moft 



convenient branches approach the 
ftock, and mark on the body of the 
branches the parts where they will moft 
eafily join to the ftock, and in thofe 
parts of each branch pare away the 
bark and part of the wood two or three 
inches in length, and in the fame man- 
ner pare the ftock in the proper place 
for the junction of the graft, then make 
a flit upward in the branch, fo as to 
form a fort of tongue, and make a flit 
downward in the ftock to admit it; 
let the parts be then joined, flipping 
the tongue of the graft into the flit of 
the ftock, making the whole join in an 
exact manner, and tye them clofely to- 
gether with bafs, and afterwards cover 
the whole with a due quantity of clay, 
as before directed in the other methods. 

After this, let a flout ftake be fixed 
if poffible, for the fupport of each graft, 
to which let that part of the ftock and 
graft be faftened, which is neceffary to 
prevent their being disjoined by the 
wind. 

The operation being performed in 
fpring, let them remain in that pofi- 
tion about four months, when they 
will be united, and the graft may then 
be feparated from the mother-tree; in 
doing this, be careful to perform it 
with a fteady hand, fo as not to loofen 
or break out the graft, Hoping it off 
downwards clofe to the ftock ; and if 
the head of the ftock was not cut down 
at the time of grafting, it muft now be 
done clofe to the graft, and all the old 
clay and bandage mull alfo be cleared 
away, and replaced with new, to re- 
main a few weeks longer. 

Obferve, however, that if you fhall 
think the grafs are not firmly united 
with the ftock, in the period of time 
above - mentioned, let them remain 
another year till autumn, before you fe- 
parate the grafts from the parent-tree. 

By this kind of grafting, you may 
raife almoft any kind of tree or fhrub, 
which is often done by way of curio- 
fity, to engraft a fruit-tree upon any 
common ftock of the fame fraternity 
or genus, whereby a new tree bearing 
fruit is raifed in a few months ; this 
is fometimes practifed upon orange and 
lemon trees, Sec. by grafting bearing 
branches upon ftocks raifed from the 
kernels of any of the fame kind of fruit, 
or into branches of each other, fo as to 
have oranges, lemons, and citrons all 
on tfie fame tree. 

GRAIN, 



G R A 



G R A 



GRAIN. A fingle feed of corn. dies. When the plants are come up 
Corn in general. about two or three inches high, they 

Oily Grain, [Sefamurx.] There are fhould be each tranfplanted into a fe- 



two or three fpecies of this grain cul- 
tivated in the Levant and in Africa, as 
a pulfe, and within a few years carried 
into Carolina, as food for the negroes. 
It is an annual plant, riling with a 
fquare herbaceous flalk two feet high; 
the flowers terminate the ftalks in 
loofe fpikes, which are followed by an 



parate fmail pot, and piunged into a 
frefh hot-bed of tan, where they muft 
be fhaded from the fun until they have 
taken new root : after which they muft 
be treated in the fame manner as other 
tender plants from hot countries, gi- 
ving them a proper fhareof aii in warm 
weather, and gently refreshing them 



oval capfule with four cells which con- with water ; but they fnould not have 



tain the feeds, that ripen in autumn. 

They may be cultivated in England 
iby fowing the feeds in fpring, and ma- 
naging them as other tender exotics. 

GRANARY. A repofitory for corn. 

GRANGE. A houfe or farm fur- 



too much wet, for they co not perfpire 
much, their leaves being of a very clofe 
contexture. In autumn thefe plants 
fhould be removed into the hct-hcufe, 
and plunged into the bark-bed, other- 
wife they will net make great progrefs j 



r, ifhed with granaries and barns for therefore they fhould always remain in 



holding corn, ftables for horfes, Halls 
for cattle, &c. 

GRANIFEROUS Pods, Are fuch 
at; contain fmall feeds refembling grain. 

GRANIVOROUS. An epithet gi- 
ven to animals that feed on corn or 
feed. 

GRAPES. The fruit of the vine. 



the tan-bed, giving them plenty of air 
in fummer when the weather is warm. 

The leaves of thefe plants continue 
in verdure all the year, fo make a fine 
appearance in the hot-liQufe in winter. 

Grape Hyacinth, [Ma/laW.] 
Mufk hyacinth. This is a bulbous 
rooted plant growing naturally in 



Seajide Grape, [Coccoloba.] This is France, Italy, and Germany, there are 



native of the Weft -Indies, and the 
warmer parts of America; it grows 
upon the fandy fea-fhores, from whence 
the inhabitants have given it the title 
of the fea-fide or mangrove grape : this 
fends up feveral woody ftalks from the 
root, which rife eight or ten feet high, 
with a light brown fmooth bark, gar- 
nifhed with leaves which are placed al- 
ternately ; they are very thick and fliff, 
almoft round, from five to feven inches 
diameter, of a lucid green on their up- 
per fide, and veined on their under, 
Handing upon fhort foot-ftalks. The 
flowers come out from the wings of the 
ftalks; they are difpofed along the 
foot-ftalk in long flender bunches, like 
thofe of the common currant; thefe 
bunches are five or fix inches long. 
The flowers are white, and the pe- 
tal is cut into fix parts; thefe are fuc- 
ceeded by berries about the fize of a 
common grape, of a purplifh red co- 
lour, inclofing a nut of the fame fhape. 
There are two or three different fpe- 
cies growing at Carthagena, La Vera 
Cruz, and Campeachy. 



four or five fpecies all eafily propaga- 
ted by off-fets. 

GRASS. A general name for mod 
of the herbaceous plants ufed for feed- 
ing of cattle. See Couch-Grass, t 
Rye-Grass, Clover, S^ain tfoin, 
Lucern, &C. / CC SI/S& £?yCC/f - 

Grass of Parnassus, [Parr.a!Jiti.~\ 
This is a flowering plant met with in 
fome meadows, and may be tranf- 
planted in pots into the garden, and if 
placed in a fhady Situation will flounfti 
very well. It may be propagated by 
parting the roots. 

Three-Leaved Grass. Trefoil, or 
clover. 

Five- Leaved Gr ass. See Cinque - 
Foil. 

Viper Grass, [Scorzonera.~\ This is 
a carrot rooted plant, with a flalk ri- 
fing about three feet, branching at top, 
and garnifhed with a few narrow leaves, 
the flowers, which are of a yellow co- 
lour, are fucceeded by oblong cornered 
feeds, with a roundilh ball of feathery 
down at top. The roots abound with 
a milky juice of a bitterifh fubacrid 



Thefe plants rife eafily from feeds, if tafle ; and hence may be of fome fer- 



they are fown in pots, and plunged into 
a hot-bed of tan; but as they do not 
produce fruit in England, the feeds 
tnuft be procured from the Weft-In- 



vice ; for Strengthening the tone of the 
vifceta, and promoting the fluid fecre- 
tions. They were formerly celebrated 
as alexipharmacs, and for throwing 
3 B ou; 



G R A 



G R A 



out the meafles and fmali-pox; but 
have now almoit entirely left their cha- 
racter. 

There are feveral fpecies which may 
be all propagated by Cowing the feeds 
in April. 

Grass-Li- a?e. Grafs lands, or 
lands appropriated to grafs, for feeding 
vf cattle. , *-. /% ' Z//'j '- 

GR ATTEN. A term ufed in Corn- 
wall, to imply the mowing of grafs, 
the firtt year alter the land has been 
manured with fea-fand ; and this ope- 
ration they call mowing LA gratten. 

GRAVEL. A congeries of fmall 
pebbles, which being mixed with a ftiff 
loam, makes lafting and elegant walks 
in our gardens. 

Opinions, with regard to the choice 
of gravel, arevarious ; fome arefor ha- 
ving it as white a'» poffible, and in or- 
der to render it the more fo, caufe the 
walks to be often rolled with ftone- 
rollers, which add a whitenefs to the 
furface. But tins renders them very 
troublfcfome to the eyes, by reflecting 
too ftrongly the rays of light : fuch gra- 
vel theietore, that will lie fmooth, and 
reflect the leaf!, fhould be preferred. 
Again, fome fcieen the gravel too fine, 
but t'.;ii is an error; for if it be call 
into a round heap, and the great ftones 
only are raked off, it will be the bet- 
ter. There are many kinds of gravel 
which do not bind, and by this means 
caufe a continual trouble of rolling, to 
little or no purpefe ; as for fueh, if the 
gravel be loofe or fanriy, you fhould 
take one load of ftpong loam and two 
of gravel, and fo caft them well to- 
gether. 

For the depth of gravel-walks, fix to 
eight inches may do well enough ; and 
a foot in thicknefs will be fufneient for 
any; but then there fnouid always be 
a depth of rubbim laid under the gra- 
vel, efpcclally if the ground be wet. 

Some turn up gravel-walks into rid- 
ers, in December, in order to kill the 
weeds ; but this is very wrong, fince 
it never anfwers the end ; and there- 
fore, if conftantly rolling them after 
the rain and froil will not effectually 
kill the weeds and mofs, you fhould 
turn the walks in March, and lay them 
down at the fame time. 

In order to deftroy worms that fpoil 
the beauty of gravel or grafs-walks, 
fome recommend the watering them 
•with water made very bitter, by fteep. 



ing walnut-tree leaves in it ; but if, in 
the firft laying of the walks, there be 
a good bed of lime-rubbifh laid at the 
bottom, it will prove the moft effectual 
method to keep out rhe worms, for 
they never harbour near lime. 

GRAVELLY SOILS. Gravel is 
very frequent at fmall depths in the 
earth, and fometimes it is feen in the 
fame manner in the furface : that is, 
naked, and without any mixture of 
earth. What is called grave), is a cluf- 
ter or quantity of flints and pebbles. 
Thefe, when they happen to make the 
upper furface of the earth, lie in the 
place oi a foil, though they cannot be 
called a foil properly. They can afford 
no nourilhment for plants, nor do any 
grow wild among them, except upon, 
the fea-fhore fome few that have roots 
fo long that they penetrate into the 
ground underneath, through a foot or 
two in depth of thefe loofe ftones. 

Such a covering of the earth there- 
fore, compofed of numbers of flints and 
pebbles alone is gravel : but, as in the 
former cafes, a gravelly foil is a com- 
pofition of mould, fand, clay, or fome 
other ftibftance with this gravel. 

The foil thus compofed, is diftln- 
guifhed into feveral kinds, according to 
the nature of the earthy, or other mat- 
ter that is mixed with it; and hence 
the farmers name thefe different kinds, 
clayey gravels, loamy gravels, or fandy 
gravels. 

The clayey gravels are a tough and » 
difagreeable foil. The pebbles break 'f* 
the fubftance of the clay, and give way J%r,cC 
i-v the rains to come in, and for the 
roots of plants to penetrate, but there 
wants a mixture of earth for the foun- 
dation ancj fupport of the growth. 

Thefe are beft manured with marie, 
but a right kind is to be chofen. It 
muft be the light brittle marie that 
moulders to powder in water. The 
larger ftones are to be picked off thefe 
lands, and this dreffing repeated at 
convenient times, and with this affift- 
ance, few foils exceed it in fertility. 

Loamy gravels are in their nature 
preferable greatly to the former; they 
are a mixture of clay, fand, fine earth, 
and pebbles : the larger ftones are to 
be picked off from thefe, and the land 
is to be dreffed in the fame manner as 
the poorer fort of loamy foils, as has 
been fhewn already. 
The fandy gravels, when they are 



G R A 



GRE 



ieft, are but indifferent foils, that is, 
when there is the greateft proportion of 
the fine earth mixed with the fand, and 
the pebbles ; but when they are poor 
in their kind, they are hardly worth 
cultivating, for the rain wafhes the fand 
down among the pebbles, and the ma- 
nure with it ; and the foil gets into the 
condition of a native and naked gravel, 
fuch as has been before mentioned. 

If the farmer have fuch land upon 
his hands, or chufe to meddle with it, 
he muft propofe to be at a great deal 
of expence, before he can expert any 
confiderable return. The only reafon- 
able way of going about an improve- 
ment, is firft to make a loam of it, and 
then to enrich it with dung and other 
materials. 

This is the view he muft have in his 
work, and to this purpofe he muft be- 
gin by dreffing it with clay. This he 
muft take care to incorporate well with 
the fand and pebbles, and when he has 
made it as it were a different foil by 
thefe means, he muft dung it well, for 
now it will hold the manure; or if 
marie can be had, that will be an ex- 
cellent dreffing. 

In Bedfordfhire, where they have 
fome clayey gravels, they drefs them 
in a different way from all thofe hi- 
t'herto named. Their manure is chalk, 
and they blend this well with the foil 
by frequent ploughings. Experience 
fhews this to be no bad method, and 
upon a fair comparifon between the 
crops of thefe lands, and of thofe of a 
like nature dreffed with marie, the dif- 
ference appears to be, that the effect of 
the marie is greater at firft, but that of 
the chalk is more lafting. The farmer 
therefore who has hot!) thefe kind.i of 
dreffings in his power, is to be guided 
in the choice by his own circumftances. 

They have an opinion, that the effect 
of chalk, though it iafts fo long, is 
fatal to the land in the end ; but th'U 
is a miftake. It is owing either to 
their not feeing far enough before them, 
or to their ignorance of a proper ma- 
nagement at the end of the time. 

It is true, that the firength whlcf) 
chalk gives to a clayey gravel, though 
it larts a great while, does not hold for 
ever: but is this a wonder ? to be fine 
land dreffed any way will wear out at 
laft, but when it comes to this, let it 
be laid down for clover or ray-grafs ; 
and proceed as before directed. 



The farmers feeing the effect of chalk 
fo great, think it will hold for ever, 
and their own folly is the caufe of the 
complaint. 

In general, the gravelly foils need lefs 
ploughing than many others. Thofe of 
the clayey kind demand more than the 
reft>; the fandy very little. They are 
all forward foils, but in different de- 
grees according to their natures : the 
fandy gravel pufhes the growth asmuch 
as any whatsoever. It requires a great 
deal of Cire in dreffing, but when that 
is done it anfwers very well : it is a 
light fweet foil, and is hurt by much 
ploughing. 

The expenfive warm dreffings 
brought from London, fuch as hcrn- 
mavings, cohey-ciippings, and the like, 
lie a great while in thefe foils, and con- 
tinue their efficacy. On the other 
hand, the folding of fheep on them 
takes the quickeii effect, but it is the 
fooneft exhaufled. The farmer wko 
attends to this, will fee that there is no 
giving a general advice on this head, 
but that he muft confider his own Gtii- 
ation, as weil a6 the condition of the 
foil. One manure may be proper if 
he be like to hold the land a great 
while, another if his time be uncertain, 
for there is no occafion that he fhould 
be at a great expence, for his fu-cceffor 
to reap the profit, as often happens. 

Where the gravel is fandy and with 
a little clay, the belt dreffing of all 
others is pure foft mud from the clean- 
ing of ditches : when the clay is in a 
greater proportion, marie is better; and Vs 
when yet more, then chalk is to be ^» 
ufed as faid before. J!' 

GRAY. A colour ; a mixture of s 
white and black. ♦ * 

GRAYMILL. Gromwell. ^ 

GREASE. When a horfe's heels T 
are firft obferved to fweil in the ftable, «^S 
and fubfide, or go down on exercife, V, 
let care be taken to wafh them very , 
clean every time he comes in, with v** 
foap-fuds, chamber-lye, or vinegar and ^ 
water, which, with proper rubbing, i> 
will frequently prevent or remove this « 
complaint: or let them be well bathed f\ 
twice a day with eld verjuice, or the N> 
following mixture, which will brace r^% 
up the relaxed vaffels ; and if rags dip- ^* 
ped in tim fame are rolled on, with a ^ 
proper bandage for a few days, it is 
moft likely the fwellings will foon be ? 
removed by this method only, as the "K^ 
3 B a bandage ^ 

S/Tco/ - ///r, *•£///? (cS I i 



G R E 



G R E 



bandage will fupport the veffels till 
they have recovered their tone. To 
anSwer this end a!fo, a laced itocking, 
made of Strong canvafs, orcoarfe cloth, 
neatly fitted to the part, would be 
found txtremely ferviceable, and might 
eafily be contrived by an ingenious 
mechanic. 

Take rectified fpirit of wine four 
ounces. dilTolveitin half an ounce 
of camphor, to which add wine- 
vinegar, or old verjuice, fix oun- 
ces ; white vitriol, diffolved in a 
gill of water, one ounce ; mix to- 
gether, and Shake the phial when 
• ufed. 

Eut if cracks or fcratches are obfer- 
ved, which ooze and run, let the hairbe 
ciipt away, as well to prevent a lodg- 
ment (which becomes Stinking and of- 
fensive by its flay) as to give room for 
warning out dirt or gravel, which, if 
Suffered to remain there, would greatly 
aggravate the diforder. 

When this is the cafe, or the heels 
are full of hard Scabs, it is neceffary to 
begin the cure with poultices, made 
either of boiled turnips and lard, with 
a handful of linfeed powdered, or oat- 
meal and rye-flour, with a little com- 
mon turpentine, and hog's lard, boiled 
up with ftrong beer grounds, or red 
wine lees. The digeftive ointment be- 
ing applied to the fores for two or three 
days, with either of thefe poultices over 
it, will, by foftening them, promote a 
difcharge, unload the veffels, and take 
down the fwelling, when they may be 
dried up with the following : 

Take white vitriol and burnt allum, 
of each two ounces ; /Egyptia- 
cum one ounce ; lime water, a 
quart, or three pints : wafii the 
fores with a Sponge dipped in 
this, three times a day, and apply 
the common white ointment, 
fpread on tow ; to an ounce of 
which may be added two drams 
of fugar of lead. 

Or the following wafh and ointment 
may be ufed for the purpofe : 

Take half an ounce of Roman vi- 
triol, diffolved in a pint of 
water; then decant off the clear 
into a quart bottle, add half a pint 
of camphorated fpirits of wine, 
the fame quantity of vinegar, and 
two ounces of /Egyptiacum. ■ 



Take honey four ounces, white or 
red lead powdered two ounces 
verdigreafe in fine powder one 
ounce ; mix together. 

Some, for this purpofe, apply allum- 
ctird ; others a ftrong folution of al- 
lum in verjuice, with honey ; and ma- 
ny of thefe forms may be eafily contri- 
ved. But let it be remem -eied, that 
as foon as the fwelling is abated, and 
the moiftureleffened, it would be very 
proper to keep the legs and patterns 
rolled up with a firm bandage, or linen 
roller, two or three fingers wide, in or- 
der to brace up the relaxed veffels, till 
they have recovered their natural tone. 

GREEK VALERIAN, [Polemoni- 
m,] This plant hath winged leaves, 
which are compofed of feveral pair of 
lobes placed alternately. The Stalks 
rife near a foot and a half high ; they 
are hollow, channelled, and are garniSh- 
ed with winged leaves, of the fame 
form with the flower, but decreafe up- 
ward in their Size; they are termina- 
ted by bunches of flowers, fome are 
white and others blue, which fit very 
clofe ; they have one petal, which has 
a fhorttube, cut into five roundifh Seg- 
ments at top ; they are of a beautiful 
blue colour and have each five ftami- 
na, which are terminated by yellow 
fummits. Thefe flowers appear the 
latter end of May, and are Succeeded 
by oval acute-pointed capfules, with 
three cells, filled with irregular feeds, 
which ripen in Auguft. 

There is a fort with creeping roots 
growing naturally in North America. 
They are propagated by fowing the 
feeds in the Spring. 

GREEN-HOUSE. A garden buil- 
ding fronted with glafs, Serving as a 
winter refidencefor tender plants from 
the warm parts of the world. 

A very considerable fhare of the ve- 
getable creation, grow naturally in 
ciiltant warm climates in open fields, 
&c. at all feafons, which in their cul- 
ture in this climate require protection 
in winter; obferving, however, thofe 
of the green-houfe department being 
only from the warmer parts of the 
world, require protection only from 
froft, not needing aid of artificial heat, 
like Stove-plants, from the hotteft re- 
gions, except in very intenfe weather j 
when the aid of a moderate fire, burn- 
ing either within the houfe, or in a fur- 
nace without, in the end or back wall, 
communicating 



G R E 



GRE 



.communicating the heat to flues or 
funnels ranged along the infide. 1 ho' 
there may not be occafion for any lire 
once in two or three years, yet it is 
advifable in confirucling a green-hcufe 
to erect flues to ufe occafionally, which 
will prove ferviceable, not only in fe- 
vere frofts, but alfo in long moift fog- 
gy weather; a moderate fire now and 
then will dry up the damps, which 
would otherwife prove pernicious to 
feveral of the tender kinds of plants. 

Every good garden fliould be fur- 
nifhed with a gieen-houfs well fup- 
plied with exotic plants, and feme 
care and tafte io required in the felec- 
tion of the proper plants. 

A green-houfe fhould generally ('.and 
in the pleafure ground, and if poffible, 
upon a fomewhat elevated and ' 
full to the fcuth, and where I 
lias full accef; from ito rifing to 
the building is commonly of brick or 
Hone, having the front almoft wholly 
cf glafs-woik: and muft range length- 
ways eaft and weft, with the front di- 
rectly facing the fouth, and mould ge- 
nerally be conflrucled upon an orna- 
mental plan. As to its general dimen- 
fiens, with refpeit to length, width, 
and height, it may be from ten} to 
fifty feet or mere long, according to the 
number of plants you defign it fhall 
contain; and its width may be from 
ten or fifteen to twenty-four feet; tho' 
for a middling houferifteen or eighteen 
feet is a fufeicient width; and its 
height in the ciear fhould be nearly 
in proportion to the width : but as to 
the erefting rooms over it, as is com- 
monly directed, I fliould advife to have 
none, as being not only an unnecelTary 
expence, but gives the building a heavy- 
look, for all garden buildings fhould 
have a light airy appearance. 

The walls in the back and ends 
fliould be carried up two bricks, or 
about eighteen inches thick; though 
if the building is to be more than fif- 
teen feet high, the walls fliould be two 
bricks and a half thick ; and at one end 
of the back wall, withoutfide, it is eli- 
gible to erect a furnace for burning 
fires occafionally, as before obferved, 
communicating with flues within, 
ranging in three or four returns along 
the back-wall, alfo one flue running 
along the front and end walls, clofe to 
pr jult under the floor; all of which 
will be extreaiely ferviceable in tune 



of intenfe frofls, and very damp foggy 
weather; and as to the front of the 
building, it fliould have as much glafs 
as poflible, and a wide glafs door fhould 
be in the middle, both for cwiament 
and entrance, and for moving in and 
out the plants; and it would be con- 
venient to have alfo a fmaller private 
door at one end ; the width of the 
windows for the glafs failles, may be 
five or fix (eel, aid tire piers between 
the faflies may be either of timber, fix, 
tk'j.t, cr ten inches wide, according to 
their height, or if of brick or ficne 
work, mufl; be two fee: wide at leaft, 
to be duly fubftantial, floping both 
fides of each pier inward, that by ta- 
king off the- angles, a freer adrmfiion 
may be given to the rays of the fun : 
for the fame reafon have the bottom cf 
the faihes tc reach within a foot cf the 
floor of the houfe, and their top reach 
almoft as high as the cieling ; and if 
brick or ftone piers two feet wide, 
fiiutters may be hung withinfide to fail 
back againft each piei : the roof may 
either be half glafs-work, next the 
front, the other half fhted, efpeciaily if 
the upright or front piers are of tim- 
ber; and fiiutters to cover the top glaf- 
fes may be contrved to Aide under the 
flated roof : but if the piers are of brick 
or ftone, it is common to have the roof 
entirely either flated or tiled, but da- 
ting is the mod ornamental, either for 
a half or whole roof; and the ceiling 
within fhpuld be lathed, and which, as 
well as the whole infide wail, fliould be 
well plaiflered and white- warned. 

But in the modern cenfiruction of 
green-houfes, ill order to have as much 
glafs as poflible in front, the piers be- 
tween the faflies a're ly made 
of timber only, from fix to eight or ten 
inches thick, according to the height, 
fo as to admit as great a portion of 
light and heat of the fun as may be; 
and on the fame confederation, conti- 
nue glafs work floping half way up the 
roof, the other half flated, as before 
obferved ; and Aiding fhctttrs alfo con- 
trived to Aide under the flated roof, to 
drawdown occafionally in fevere wea- 
ther, cr in lime of hail florms, to de- 
fend the glafTss; and for the front, 
may have either wooden or cam ; 3 
fliutters, or large canvas cloths upon 
rollers to let them down occafionally, 
cr in default thereof, nail up garden- 
mats ;. nher. 

Seme- 



G R E 



G R O 



Sometimes green- houfes for large col- 
leifijru. ofptants have two wings, of 
fmaller dimenfions, added to the build- 
in?, one at each end, in a right line, 
feparated fomeiimes from it by a glafs 
;.::tition, with Aiding fafhes for com- 
munication, and the iront almoft: 
wholly of glafs work, and half glafs 
roofs as above hinted ; thus by thefe 
additional wing's, the green houfe con- 
fifts cf three divifions, whereby the 
different qualities and temperatures of 
the various plants can be more eligibly 
fuited. I he middle or main divifion 
may be for all the principal and more 
lhardy, woody or fhrubhy kinds, which 
require protection only from net ; one 
of the wings may be appropriated for 
the fucculem tribe, and the other wing 
for the more tender kinds that require 
occasional heat in winter, yet can live 
without the conftant heat of a ftove. 

On whatever plan the green-houl'e is 
ccn1lru£ted, let the whole infid..-. both 
cieiing and walls; be neatly flni >fl 

with plaifter and white-wafb, arid all 
the wood work painted white ; and the 
bottom pavedwith large fquare paving 
tiles. 

The rreceflary irtehfils of the green- 
hotife are principally fome treffels or 
fianda for the fapport of boards, on 
which to arrange the pots of plants, lb 
as to have their heads range in a gra- 
dual dope from the back part to the 
front; but as fome of the plants may 
be tall and in large tubs, and either dq 
not require ftatids, or cannot beesfil) 
placed thereon, filch mult be regulated 
as you fhall fee convenient. 

GREEN-BROOM. See Broom. 
Green-Goose. A young goofe. 
Green Scouring. A difeafe to 
which fheep and bullocks are very of- 
ten fubjedt. The belt remedy for this 
diforder is verjuice; a wine glafs is 
en i»gh for a fheep, and a pint for a 
bullock. 

Winter G r e r. n , [ Pyroia . ] This ha t h 
a perennial root, from which fpring out 
five or fix' roundifh leaves about an 
inch and a half long, and almoft as 
broad, of a thick confidence, of a deep 
lucid green, and entire, (landing upon 
pretty long foot-ftalks. Between thefe 
arifea (lender upright fta'k near afoot 
hi rh, naked great part of the length, 
ending in a loofe fuike of flowers, 
which arecompofedof five large, con- 
cave, white petals, fpreading open like 
a roftj but the two upper leaves are for- 



med into a kind of helmet. In the 
center is fituated a crooked pointal, 
bending downward, attended by ten 
(lender ftamina, terminated by faffron- 
coloured fummits. 

There are feveral fpecies growing 
naturally in America, and all of them 
very difficult to cultivate; for being re- 
moved from the barren foil where they 
generally grow to a better, they feldom 
laft long. 

GREEN-GAGE. A plumb fo called 

GREEN-SWARD. Graffy turf. 

GREEN-WEED. Dyers weed. 

GRICE. A little pig. 

GRIN. A feton made to difcharge 
like an iffue. 

GRIP. A fmall ditch, cut acrofs 
a meadow or ploughed-field, in order 
to drain it. It is othcrwife called a 
water-furrow. 

GRIP. A handful of corn when 
reaping. — The corn is in grip when the 
handfuls are lying down before it is 
tied up in fheaf. 

GRIPES. foCHonc. 

GROATS. Unground oats, when 
the hufks are off; unbroken oatmeal. 

CROMWELL, [Lithsfperntum.^ A 
plant found wild in dry fields and hed- 
ges. Its feeds are roundifh, hard, of a 
whitifh colour, like little pearls ; and 
from thefe circumftances have been 
fuppofed peculiarly ferviceable in cal- 
culous diforders, Their tafte is merely 
farinaceous. The bark of the roo6 
giyes a purple tincture, but the co- 
lour does not long remain. There are 
feveral fpecies all propagated by feeds. 

GROSE. Twelve dozen, 144. 

GROTTO, 7 A cave made for plea- 

GROT, \ fure. 

GROVE. A fmall wood impervi- 
ous to the fun. 

GROUND. A field. A general 
name for land, be the foil what it will. 
See Clay, Sand, Gravelly Soil. 

GROUND- IVY, [Hedera terrejlns, 
Gkchoma .] This plant goes by many 
names, as Ale-hoof, Turn-hoof, Gill- 
go -by-the-ground, Szc. Ground-ivy is 
a low plant, frequent in hedges and 
fhady places. It has an aromatic, tho* 
not very agreeable fmell ; and a quick, 
bitteriih, warm tafte. This herb is an 
ufeful corroborant, aperient, and deter- 
gent; and hence flands recommended 
againft laxity, debility, and obftrucli- 
ons of the vifcera: fome have had a 
great opinion of it for cleanfing and 
healing 



G P V 



G U A 



healing ulcers of the Internal parts, 
even of the lungs 3 and for purifying 
the blood. It is cuitomary to infufe 
the dried leaves in malt liquors under 
the name of gill ale, which it readily 
communicates its virtue to, and like- 
wife helps to fine them down : fcai ce 
any other herb has this effecl more re- 
markable than ground-ivy. 

GROUND, PINE, [Ckamapitys.] 
This is a lov- 'hairy plant, clammy 10 
the touch, of firong aromatic refinous 
fmell, and a bitter rcughiih ulie. It 
is recommended as an aperient and 
vulnerary, as alfo in gouty and rheu- 
matic pains. 

GROUNDSEL, [Erigerum.] Ti is 
is a common weed, which, nctvvith- 
flanding its being annual, is met with 
at all times of the year. The juice, or 
an infufion of it in ale, is generally 
faid to be a mild and fafe emetic ; but 
unlefs taken in very large quantities, 
it has no effect this way. The frefh 
herb, beat into a very coarfepulp, and 
applied externally cold, to the pit of 
the ftomach, is faid by fome to occa- 
sion ftrong vomiting: but we, with 
Haller, think that this notion is foun- 
ded on an erroneous experiment. 

Groundsel, [&a/!.] There are 
a great number of plants under this 
name brought from different parts of 
the world, and cultivated in botanic 
gardens, which are eafily propagated 
by feeds and parting the roots. Some 
are tender and require to be kept in a 
green-houfe. 

African GropkdseIj \Cacalia.~\ Al- 
pine coltsfoot. 
s. * GRUB. The name of a large mag- 
[T> £ got, produced from the eggs of a cer- 
n tain fpecies of butterfly. It is of a 

^ ft* large fize, and often does great injury 
^<s X to the corn by undermining it, and 
^* *v preying on its roots. It produces the 
N > beetle, and is by fome called the rook 
^ J-y worm, becaufe rooks are particularly 
I J* fond of it. The belt way of deftroy - 
ing the grub, is good and frequent 
► N. ploughings, v which will clear the 
v> ground, however infeAed with this in- 
^ feci, for fome years at leafl. 
'•$ GRUBBING. The clearing of 
*V lands from the roots and flumps of 
v >Vttrees, bufhes, &c. 

Mr. Worlidge tightly obferves, that 
J^the beft and cheapeft method of grub- 
£ bing up thorny lhrubs, broom, grafs, 
ft ic, is ingenioufly delivered by Gabriel 



Piatt. The inflrument he has rccosn- 
mended tor this purpofe refembl?sa 3* 
grained dung-fork, but much larger and 
It ronger, according to the bignefs of the 
lTtrubs, &c. the ftale thereof refembling 
a large and ftrong lever. This inftru- 
ment being placed about half a feet or 
any other reafonable difiance from the 
root of the fhrub, &q. and driven to a 
good depthjwith a ftrong hedging beetle, 
then rjifed by laying un^er it a (tone 
or log of wood, it is pulled down by 
means of a rope fattened to the upper 
end of the ftale, and the whole bufh 
wrenched up by the toots. 

G'lJAVA, [P/Ji1::i-'i.] The common 
red guava hath a pretty thick trunk, 
which rifes twenty feet high, covered 
with a fmooth bark; the branches are 
angular, garnifhed with oval leaves, 
having a ftrong midrib, and many 
veins running toward the fides, of a 
light green colour, ftanding oppofite- 
upon very fliort foot-ftalks. From 
the wings of the leaves the flowers 
come out upon foot-ftalks, about an 
inch and a hdf long. 

After the flower is psft, the germen 
becomes a large oval fruit, fhaped like 
a pomegranate, having one cell, crow- 
ned by the empalement of the flower, 
and filled with fmall feeds: the fruit 
when ripe has an agreeable odour. 
They are much eaten in the Weil-In- 
dies, both by men and hearts ; and the 
feeds, which pafs whole through the 
body, and are voided with the excre- 
ment in hot countries, grow, whereby 
the trees are fpread over the ground 
where they are permitted to rtand. 
This fruit is very aftringent, and nearly 
of the fame quality with the pomegra- 
nate, fo fhould be avoided by thofe per- 
form wiio are fubjeet to be coflive. 

The large white fort grows natu- 
rally in the iflands of the Welt-Indies, 
and is often found intermixed with the 
former, fo is fuppofed to be only an 
accidental variety ariling from the fam« 
feeds. This differs from the former, 
in the colour of the midrib of the 
leaves, which in this are o.-tle, but thofe 
of the former a/e red. The flowers 
and fruit of this art larger, and the in- 
fide of the fruit is white. 

The leaves of the fmall white ev ->va 
are like thofe of the larger, but the] 
branches of the tree are not fo angu- 
lar; the flowers are much fmailer, and 
the fruit is no larger -than a middling 
goofebetry. 



GUA 



G U I 



goofeberry, but when ripe, has a very 
ftrong aromatic flavour. r l 'his flow- 
ers in June, and the fruit ripens in au- 
tumn. 

Tliefe plants are propagated '< 
which when brought over in the 
fruit, gatheretWultripe, as will more 
certainly fucceed ; tbufe mould be fovi n 
in pots rilled wii h kitchen garden earth, 
and plunged into a hot-bed o(" tanners 
baik; in aby:t fix weeks the plants 
will appear (i; the feeds aregcod) when 
they in uft have (r:e aif admitted to 
tiiem, in proportion to the warmth cf 
the feafon ; wbeti the plants have ob- 
tained ftrengi ■ be removed. 
they mould be each planted in a fmall 
pot, filled with Che like earth, and 
plunged into a fre'.Ii hot-bed, fl 
them from the fun have ta- 
ken new rcot; then they fhould have 
a large fhare of free air admitted to 
them every day in warm weathdr, to 
prevent ; they 
niaft alfo be frequently refrefhfed with 
water in fummer. in the autumn they 
mull be plunged into the can-bed in 
the ftove : during the Winter they 
ihould be kept in a moderate warmth 
and not have too much water; in fum- 
mer they will requite plenty of wet, 
and in hot weather a great fhare of air. 
With this management the plants will 
produce flowers ft fruit the third year, 
and may be confined a long time. 

CI/ALUUM. [Guaiacum.] Lig- 
num vitae, pookwood. A tree 
in many pans cl the Weft-Indies, the 
wood is very ponderous, of a clofe 
compart textdre; ih. cuter part is of 
a yellow colour, the heart of a deep 
blackifh green, or variegated with 
black, green, pile, and brown colours : 
the bark is tbinj fmooth, externally of 
a dark greyifh hue : boih have a Ih'hrly 
aromatic, bitteiifh, pungent t^fle; the 
- moft acrid and ungrateful. 
exudes from incifi- 
■ .:.; ol che tree) is 
st to ;is in irieguiar maffes, ufu- 
greenifh, and 
fbme times of a reddifh call, with pie- 
: its tafte 
than that 
of the wood or bark. 7 \ hen- 
virtues are thofe of a warm ftimula- 
tirrgmedicitie -. they ftrengthen the fto- 
roach and c' 

bly promote the urinary and cuticular 
;^e: hence Jn,fco;butio. . 



ous, and other diforders proceeding 
from obftrudtions of the excre- 
tory glands, and where fluggifh ferous 
humours abound, they are eminently 
ufeful : rheumatic and other pains 
have often been relieved by them. 
The reftn is the moft adlive of thefe 
drugs; and the efficacy of the others 
depends upon the quantity of this part 
contained in them; thr refin is ex- 
tracted from the wood in part by wa- 
tery liquors, but much more perfectly 
by f:>ii ituous ones ; the latter elevate 
nothing in diftillation ; with the for- 
mer a ponderous eiTenti.il oil arifes, 
poiTeffiiTg the odour and flavour of the 
guaiacum ; hence the watery extract of 
this v\ood, kept in the lliops, proves 
not only lefs in quantity, but confider- 
ab'.y weaker than one made with fpi- 
rit. This laft extract is of the fame 
with the native refin, and dif- 
fers from that brought to us only in 
being purer. 

1 his tree is propagated by feeds as 
other tender exotics. 

GUINEA CORN. See Millet. 
OriNEA Hex weed, [Peti<veria.~\ 
This is a very troublefome weed in the 
Weft-India ! (lands, it has a ftrong foe- 
tid ffnell on being hardied ; where 
wanted for curiolity it may be propa- 
gated by feeds fown on a hot bed in the 
fpflftg and afterwards inured to the air 
by degrees. 

Guinea Pepper. See Capficum. 
Guinea Wheat, [Zm,] Maize, 
Indian corn, Turkey corn. It is called 
by the natives of America weachin. 
The ear is a fpan long, compofed of 
eight or more rows of grain; according 
to the quality of the foil, and about 
thirty grains in a row ; fo that each ear 
at a medium produces about two hun- 
dred and forty grains, which is an afto- 
nifhing increafe ; it is of various co- 
lours, red, white, yellow, black, green, 
Sec. and the diverfity frequently ap- 
pears, not only in the fame field, but 
in the very fame ear of corn, though 
white and yellow be the moft com- 
mon; ftrong thick hufks fhield the 
tender ear from cold and ftorms, and 
in many of the provinces of North- 
America, the ftalk grows feven or 
eight feet high, and proportionably 
ftrong, and thick; it is obfervablej 
that the maize dwindles, the farther 
you advance to the northward, whence 
it appears, that warm climates are 
more 



GUI 



GUT 



more congenial to its nature; and in- 
deed its luxuriance in the hotteft climes 
on the coaft of Africa, fufficiently evin- 
ces the Indian corn to be a native of 
the more foutliern latitudes. The 
ftaik is jointed like a cane, and is fup- 
plied with a juice as fweet as that of 
the fugarcane: but from the experi- 
ments that have been made, it appears 
to he incapable of being rendered ufe- 
ful in that refpeft. Every joint is 
marked with a long leaf or flag, and at 
the top moots a branch of flowers like 
rye blofToms ; the ufualtimeof fowing, 
or as it is here called of planting, ' is 
from the middle of April to the middle 
of May ; but in the northern countries 
the corn is not put in the ground before 
June, yet the harveft is ripe in due fea- 
fon, owing to the extreme warmth of 
the fumrner months. This corn the 
Indians boil till it is tender, and eat 
with fifh, fowl, or flefh, as bread ; 
fometimes they bruife it in mortars, 
and then boil it, but the mofl ufual 
method is to dry the corn high with- 
out burning, to lift and beat it in mor- 
tars into fine meal, which the Indians 
eat either dry or mixed with water; the 
Englifh bake it into bread in the fame 
manner as flour, but the beft food made 
from it is called Samfi, the corn being 
fleeped in water for half an hour, beat 
in a mortar until it is thoroughly 
cleared of the hufk, then fifted, boiled 
and eaten with milk, or butter and fu- 
gar, like rice, which is not only an 
agreeable, but a wholefome flrength- 
ening diet. 

There is nothing more to be obfer- 
ved in the culture, but only to keep it 
clear from weeds by frequent hoeing; 
and when the ftems are advanced, to 
draw up the earth in a hill about each 
plant, which will ftrengthen them and 
preferve their roots. When the corn 
is ripe, they cut off the ftalks clofe to 
the ground, and after having gathered 
off the fpikes of grain, they fpread the 
ftalks in the fun to harden and dry, 
which they afterwards ufe, as we do 
reeds in England, for making fences, 



covering fheds, &c. Though not a 
very good bread corn, it is an excellent 
food for cattle, hogs, and poultry. 

Had Mr, Tull, the inventor of the 
horfe-hoeing hufbandry, known it, or 
rather had he lived in a country where 
it was commonly cultivated, he would 
have efieemed it particularly as the 
plant of all others moll adapted to that 
mode of culture; and very many far- 
mers in New-England are got into the 
method, finding it more expeditious 
and lefs expenlive. 

GUM SUCCORY, [Chendrilla .] 
This plant grows naturally in Germa- 
ny, Helvetia, and France, on the bor- 
ders of the fields, and is feHom prefer- 
ved in gardens, becaufe the roots are 
very apt to fpread and become trouble- 
fome weed>; and the feeds having 
down on their tops, are carried by the 
wind to a great diltance, fo that the 
neighbouring ground is filled '.vi ' the 
plants; the roots of this Alike deep 
into the ground, and fprejd out with 
thick fibres on every fide, each of which 
when cut, or broken into many parts, 
will (hoot up a plant, fo that when this 
plant hath obtained poffeffion of the 
ground, it is very difficult to root it out. 
The root fends out a great number of 
(lender ftalks, which at the bottom are 
garnifhed with oblong finuated leaves, 
but t'iofe above are very narrow and 
entire. The flowers are produced 
from the fides and top of the branches, 
which are like thofe of lettuce, and are 
fucceeded by feeds of the fame form, 
crowned with down. It flowers in 
July, and the feeds ri pen in September. 
Gum Arabic A gum i(fuing 
from the Egyptian acacia tree brought 
to us from Turkey; its virtues are to 
(heath acrimony, hence it is ferviceable 
in gravelly and nephritic complaints, 
coughs, and when the mucus of the in- 
teltines is abraded. Cum from the 
cherry tree or plumb tree, has nearly 
the fame virtue. 

G u m F. i. f. m i . oY« E L E m i . 

Gum Ammoniac. See Ammoniac. 

GUTTER. A paffage for water. 



HACK. 



H. 



H A R 



H A R 



HACK. A pick or mattock. 
To Hack Ptajt. To cut them 
up with a fickle. 

HAFT, A handle. 

HAIR. One of the common tegu- 
ments of the body. 

{ HALM, or Haul ?vy The ftraw of 
peafe and beans. /i?A£/-*/S/?i6fiLC . 

HALTER. A hempen rope or 
firing contrived to fatten a horle in a 
liable, &c. 

HAMLET. A fmall village. 

HAM. The thigh of a hog faked. 

HA ME. The wooden part of a 
horfe's collar. 

HAND. In meafure, four inches. 

HARDKEAM. See Service. 

HARE-EELL. Englifh h>acinth, 
which grows naturally in woods and 
hedges, of a blue and white colour. 

Hares-Ear, [Bui-lemimJ] This is 
a biennial plant, growing naturally in 
ch;lky land ainongl't wheat. There are 
four kinds introduced into botanic gar- 
dens, which are brought from the Alps 
and Pyrenees, which are annuals. 

Hare's-Foot-Trefcil, [Trifo- 
lium A>-v;tife.~\ This is an annual plant, 
and grows naturally upon dry gra- 
velly land, and is fe.dom eaten by cat- 
tle, ccnfequently is unfit for pafture. 

Hare's Lettuce, [Sonchus.J Sow 
Thiftle. 

Hare's Strong. Hogsfennel. 

HARNESS. The furniture of a 
horfe for draught. 

HARMEL, \Pegantm.'] Wild Affy- 
rian rue. This plant grows naturally 
in Spain and Syria j it has a root as 
Inrgt as a man's little finger, which by 
age becomes woody. The (talks dec>y 
every autumn, and new ones arifein the 
. fpiing; thefe grow about a foot long, 
an ' divide into fevera! final! branches, 
which arc garnifhed wirh oblons. thick 
leaves cut into feveral nanowfegmentsj 
they are of a d.irk green, and of a gum- 
my bi;teriih tarte. The flowers are 
produced at the end of the oranches, 
&ting ciofe between the leaves, & are 



compofedof five roundifh white petals, 
which open like a rofe, which after- 
wards become a roundifh three-cor- 
nered capfule, having three cells, which 
contain feveral oval acute pointed feeds. 
It is propagated by feeds, which fhould 
be fown thinly on abed of light earth, 
the beginning of April. 

HARROW. An inftrument for 
breaking the clods of earth, and cover- 
ing the corn when fown. It is a fort 
of wooden drag, made in the form of 
a fquare, with large iron teeth or tines. 

H ARTWORT, [Ttrdilium, Sefeli."] 
There are feveral fpecies of this plant 
which grow wild in the warmer parts 
of Europe, and fome are found in dif- 
fer ent parts of England. They are pro- 
pagated by feeds fown in autumn. 

H artw or t of Ethiopia. This plant 
grows to the height of four or five feet, 
forming a regular evergreen bufh. It 
is propagated by cuttings inthefpring. 

HARTSHORN, [Plantago.] See 

BuCKSHORN. 

HARTS TONGUE, [Lingua Cer- 
■vir.a.~\ Thefe plants commonly grow 
out from the joints of old walls and 
buildings, where they are moift and 
fhady, and alfo upon fhady moift banks, 
hut feldom cultivated in gardens. 
There is a very great variety of thefe 
plants, both in the Eaft and Weft-In- 
dies, but there are very few fpecies of 
them in Europe; all the hardy forts 
may be propagated by parting their 
roots, and fhould have a moift foil and 
fhady fituation. 

Harts-Trefoil. Melilot. 

Har ts-Penn y-Royal, \Pulegium 
Ccr-ulnum.] This is fomewhat ftronger 
and more agreeable than the common 
penny-royal. 

To HATCHEL Flax. To beat it 
with an inftrument fo called. 

HATTOCK. A fhock of corn. 

HARVEST. The feafon when corn 
is ripe a^d cut. 

HARVEST-MAN. A man em- 
ployed 



^ 



X 






I 



H E A 



HE! 



ployed for the purpofe of getting In the 
corn at harveft. 

HATCHET-VETCH, [Securidaca.] 
This is an annual plant, with trailing 
herbaceous italks tiling to the height 
of eighteen inches, and growing natu- 
rally among the corn in Spain and Ita- 
ly. It may be propagated by fowing 
the feeds in the fprng. 

HAVER. Oats; a provincial word. 

HAW. A clofej a fmall field;— the 
common name for the fruit of the 
white-thon. ; — alfo, a fwelling of a 
fpongy texture, growing in the inner 
corner of a horfe's eye. 

HAWTHORN', [Spina Alba.'] 
White-thorn. This plant is univerfaily 
well known. See Fences. The ber- 
ries and flowers ol the hawthorn have 
been recommended for nephritic com- 
plaints, but at prefent little regard is 
paid to them. 

HAWK WEED, [Hkracium.] There 
are a great many fpecies of this plant, 
fome of which grow wild in many 
parts of England, others, exotics, are 
cultivated in the gardens for variety, 
and the beauty of the flowers. They are 
propagated by offsets from the roots. 

HAY. The general name of grafs 
when cut up and dried for the ufe of 
cattle, whether meadow or artificial. 

HAY-BOTE. A liberty, which a 
tenant for life or a term of years, has 
of taking bufhes, wood, Sec. for repair- 
ing fences, gates, and the like. Ir a!fo 
fignifies the liberty of cutting wood, 
for making rakes and forks ufed in 
making hay. 

HAYN or Hayn up. The action of 
enclofing with a hedge, in order to 
preferve grafs-grounds from cattle. 

HAYWARD. One who ketps the 
common herd of the town ; one pare 
of his office is to look that they neither 
break nor crop the hedges of inclofed 
grounds. He is a fworn officer in the 
Lord's court. 

HAZEL. The wild nut. £« Fil- 
bert. 

HAZLE-MOULD. A moderately 
compact earth, containing a large 
quantity of refin-coloured fand. 

HEAD-LAND. The land running 
acrofs the others at the head of the 
field, left for the turning of the plough. 

HEADSTALL. Part of the bndle 
that covers the head. 

HEARTVEASE, [Viola Tricolor.'] 
A fpecies of wild violet growing natu- 



rally among corn in fome parts of Eng- 
land. It is an annual plant, and may 
be propagated by feeds or parting the 
roots. 

HEATH, [Ericc] There are three 
or four fpecies of iieath, which grow 
wild upon barren and uncultivated pb*_ 
ess in many parts of England. 

Biackkerricd Heath, [Empatrum.] 
This little fhrub grows wild upon the 
mountains of Staffordfhire, Derby- 
fhire, &-c. 

Heath Pine, [Com.] This plant 
grows wild about Montpellier, feldom 
rifjng above fix inches high, flowering 
in June. It may be propagated by flips 
and cuttjngs. 

HEDGE. See Fence. /VZ.'A**^- 
HEDGER. One that makes and 
mends hedges. 

Hedge-Hog Plant, [Medicagt 
Intortexta,] A fpecies of fnail trefoil, 
which may be propagated by fowing 
the feeds in the fpring. 

Hedge-Hog Thistle. See Me- 
lon Thistle. 

Hedge Hyssop, [Grathla.] This 
plant is found growing naturally en 
the Alps, and other mountainous parts 
cf Europe, glowing with a fquare up- 
right flalk near a foot high, producing 
yellowifh flowers at the fides of the 
ft illcs at each joint. It is eafily propa- 
gated by parting the roots; there are 
two other fpecies brought from North 
and South America, 

Hedge Mustard, [Eryf.mum."] 
This plant grows naturally by the fide 
of foot-paths and on old walls in moll 
parts of England, and when it gets into 
gardens is a troublefome weed. 

Hedge Nettle, [Ga!e»pris.~] 
Stinking dead nettle, A common an- 
nual plant or weed growing in many 
parts of England, of which there are 
three or four fpecies. 

Shrubby Hedge Nettle, [Pra- 
fium ] This plant rifes to the height 
of near three feet, the ftalk is covered 
with a whitifh bark, the flowers, which 
appear in whorls round the flalk, are 
white. In another fpecies, which is a 
native of Sicily, the white flowers are 
fpotttd with purple. They are only 
cultivated for variety, and may be pro- 
pagated by fowing the feeds in April. 

HEDGING BILL. Along-handled 
bill ufed to cut and mend hedges. 

HEIFER. The cow before fhe has r/ - 
had a calf, i ft fisi* f- - ifd**- j*/££-/;/.i 

3Cz " HELIOTROPE 



HEL 



H E L 



HELIOTROPE, [Hellotropium.'] 
Tnrnfole. This is an annual plant, and 
there are feveral fpecies; fome not above 
fix or feven inches high, and others 
from three to four or five feet high. 
The fpecies moftly approved is the 
Peruvian fweet -fcented heliotrope, 
Which has a fhrubby ftalk growing to 
four or five feet high, blanching nurne- 
roufly with fpear-fhaped oval leaves, 
and numerous cluftered fpikes of pale 
blue fweet-fcenied flowers, appearing 
great part of the year and bearing (eeds 
in autumn. It is ealily propagated by 
feed and cuttings planted in fpring and 
rummer.- 

Black: HELLEBORE, \HeUdmrut 
2figer."\ The root of hellebore is acrid 
and bitter. Its acrimony, as Dr. Grew 
obferves, is firft felt on the tip of the 
tongue, and then fpread.i immediately 
to the middle without being much per- 
ceived on the intermediate part: on 
chewing it for a few minutes, the 
tongue feems benumbed, and affected 
with a kird of paralytic flupor, as 
when burnt by eating any thing' too 
hot: the fibres are more acrimonious 
than the head of the root which .hey 
i.fue from. Black hellebore is a pow- 
erful and vehement cathaitic; and as 
fuch lias been celebrated for the cure of 
maniacal, and other diforders, proceed- 
ing from what the ancients call ana 
. bilh ; but it is now feldom made ufe of 
in thefe intentions; practitioners ha- 
ving introduced in its place, fome other 
fubftanc.es, no lei's efficacious, though 
perhaps more fafe. It does not how- 
ever appear, that our black helled ore 
acts with fo much violence as that of 
the ancients : whence many have fup- 
pofed it to be a different plant, and in- 
deed the defcriptions which the anci- 
ents have left us of their hellebore, do 
not agree to any of the forts ufually 
taken notice of by modern botaniftsi 
Another fpecies has been difcovered in 
the e.iftern countries, which Tourrie- 
fort diltinguifh.es by the name of helle- 
hcrus nlger e.ientalis, am plijjtmn folio ; cault 
praalto,flore pur^urafcint^, and fuppofes 
to be the true ancient hellebore, from 
its growing in plenty about mount 
Olympus, and in the ifland Anticyra, 
Celebratei cf < Id for the production of 
this amimaniacal drug: he relates, 
that a fcruple of this fort, given for a 
dofe, occafioned convulfions. Oar 
hellebore is at prefent looked upon 



principally as an alterative, and in this 
light is frequently employed, in fmall 
dofes, for attenuating vifcid humours, 
promoting the uterine and urinary dif- 
charges, and opening inveterate ob- 
ftrudions of the remoter glands : it 
often proves a very powerful emmena 
gogue in plethoric habits, where fteel 
is ineffectual or improper. An extract 
made from this root with water, is one 
of the mildeft, and for the purpofes of 
a carthatic, the moft effectual prepara-- 
tion of it; this operates fufhciently, 
without occafioning the irritation 
which the pure relin is accompanied 
with. A tincture drawn with proof 
fpirit contains the whole virtue of the 
hellebore, and feems to be one of the 
beft preparations of it, when defigned 
for an alterative : this tincture, and the 
extract, are kept in the fhops. 

Bajhard Hellebore. See Bas- 
tard Hellebore. 

While Hellebore, [Veratum, Hellc- 
toius dlbus.] This plant grows fpon- 
taneoufly in Switzerland, and the 
mountainous parts of Germany. The 
root has a naufeous, bitterifh, acrid 
tafte, burning the mouth and fauces : 
wounded when frefh, it emits an ex- 
tremely acrimonious juice, which mix- 
ing with the blood, even by a flight 
wound, is faid to prove mortal: the' 
powder of the dry root, applied to an 
iffue, occafions violent purging; fnuf- 
fed up the nofe, it proves a ftrong, 
but not always a fafe fternutatory. 
This root, taken internally, acts with 
extreme violence as an emetic, and has 
been obferved, even in a fmall dofe, to 
occafion cenvuifions and other terrible 
diforders. The ancients fometimes 
employed it in very obftinate cafes, 
but always made this their laft refort. 
Modern practice feems to have almoft 
entirely rejected its internal ufe; there 
are two or three fpecies in the gardens, 
which'may be propagated by offsets or 
feeds. 

HELM. A hovel. Straw prepared 
for thatching. 

HELLWEED. Dodder. 
HELMET FLOWER, [Scuttel/ar^.} 
Skullcap. The ftalk of this plant, 
which is fquare and hairy, rifes to the 
height qf two or three feet, and is fur- 
nifhed with heart-fhaped leaves fawed 
on the edges; the flowers are difpofed 
in fpikes of a blue, purple, and white 
colour, They grow wild, in Italy. 
Crete.- 



HEM 



HEN 



Crete, and the Levant j and in North 
America. Another fpecies found on 
the Alps & Appennines has a fhrubby 
ftalk trailing on the ground. All the 
fpecies are propagated by feeds fown 
in Autumn. 

HEMLOCK, [Cicuta.] This is a 
large umbelliferous plant, common 
about the fides of fields, under hed- 
ges, and in moift fhady places: the 
leaves are winged, divided into a great 
number of fmall fern-like feftions, of 
a dark or blackifh gieen colour, and 
appearing as it were rough : the ltalk 
is hollow (as is likewife great part of 
the root after the flalk has arifen) and 
fpotted with feveral blackifh or pur- 
piifh fpots. Hemlock is fometimes 
applied externally to hard and fcro- 
phuious tumours; to women's breafts 
for preventing their immoderate 
growtli, the generation or coagulation 
of milk, &c. Received internally, it 
is accounted poifonous : nevei thelefs, 
there are examples of feveral ounces 
having been taken without inconveni- 
ence. But in mofi of the hifiories of 
the good or ill effects of the cicuta, it 
is uncertain what the plant employed 
really was. 

Bafiard Hemlock, [Cicutar'u.] 
Stinking baftard hemlock. This hath 
a thick flefhy root like a parfnip, the 
leaves are winged with the lobes cut 
jn acute points of a deep green, and 
when bruifed of a fetid i'mell, the ltaiks 
rife to the height of four or five feet, 
and are hollow and large. This is fup- 
pofed to be the hemlock of the ancients. 

HEMP, [Cannabis.] This plant re- 
quires a rich, light, deep, and dry foil, 
that the roots may have freedom to 
fpread; the land fhould be either frefh 
broke up or in jood heart, and fnould 
be exceedingjx well tilled and very fine 
before the feeds are fown. The molt 
proper time for doing which is the firft 
, or fecond week in April. ^There are 
two methods of fowing pradtifed, the 
brcad-calt and drill, the latter of which 
we prefer for feveral reafons ; the part- 
ing of the rows will add to the nourifh- 
ment of the plaDts, and above all as the 
fame feeds will prcduce male and fe- 
male plants, which ripen at different 
times; the plants firit pulled can be 
conveniently bellowed in the.alleys be- 
tween the rows, and lefs damage will 
be done to the Aanding plants. The 

- management will be fimilar to tliat 
Tnenticned under the article Ft ax. 

- Zsf//<?jf3 Jev>/*A>7^ -A?J20- 



The middle or latter end of Auguft 
is the feafon for the firft hemp harveit, 
the male hemp or fum rner hem p as it 
is called will now be fit to ripen,~and 
the farmer fhould keep his eye en th« 
field, and obferve when the leaves begin 
to hang down and turn yellow, and 
when the male plants have fhed their 
larina or du.fl, it v. ill he then time to 
pull, which is performed as flax, only 
the female (talks are to remain till the 
feeds are ripe. The male hemp is to 
be dried, and then watered. 

The female hemp,when the feeds are 
ripe, is to be pulled in the fame man- 
ner, and fheaved up to dry; when dry 
to be thrafned, and then to be watered 
as the male. 

The watering is thus performed ; the 
bundles are carried to a pond or proper 
watering place, in which fome flakes 
are driven to keep the hemp in, bundle 
after bundle, bottom and top alter- 
nately ; when it has lain long enough, 
that is, when the leaves ccme off, which 
may be known by wafhinga bundle in 
another part of the pond, which gene- 
rally happens in four, five, or fix days, 
let the whole be wafhed of all the leaves 
and filth, and the clean ftalks fet up 
on end to drain and dry. 

When the hemp is wafhed clean and 
dried, it is ready for the brake, and the 
further operations, which are fimilar to , „ 
thofe for flax. See Flax. fi/tJcst-filkflnc.'C 

Hemp Agrimony. See article / 

Agrimony. /?/0# &/n.y , 

HEN. The female of the houfe- & 

cock. See Chicken. ild&-4fbf>- l////' 

HEN-ROOST. The plac? vvfrfrc ^ 

fowls go to at night. 

HENBANE, [Hyofciamus.] White 
and black. Thei'e plants ftand recom- 
mended for fundry external purpofes, 
and by fome likewife internally againit 
dyfenteries and haemorrhagies : but 
thcie are fo many examples of their 
pernicious effects, that common prac- 
tice has very defervedly rejected than. 
They are (liongand virulent narcotics, 
greatly- daforder the fenfes, occafioning 
deliria and madnefs, either deadly or of 
long duration. Hailer tells us of one 
who eat of all the poifons of the phy- 
fic garden, the napelli, apecyna, belia 
donna, without injury, but was maf- 
tered by this ; that after its common 
effecls as a narcocic had abated, a pa- 
ralyfis of one of the legs remained j 
and that Boerhaave had his fenfes dif- 
"oidered 



HER 



H I D 



•rdered by only making a plaifter from 
this plant. There are other examples 
alfo, though from lefs unexceptionable 
authorities, of henbane proving narco- 
tic, though none of it was received 
into the body. 

HERB BENET, [(?<-;/», Caryophylla- 
f(j.] Avens. Thi*is a rough plant found 
wild in woods and hedges. The root 
has a warm, hitterilh, aftringent tafte, 
and a pleafant fmell, fomewhat of the 
clove kind, efpecially in the fpring, 
and wlien produced in dry warm foils ; 
Parkinfon obferves, that fuch as is the 
growth of moift foils has nothing of 
this flavour. This root has been em- 
ployed as a ftomachic, and forftrength- 
ening the tone of the vifcera in gene- 
ral : it is ftill in fome efteem in foreign 
countries, though not taken notice of 
among us. It yields on diftitlation an 
elegant odoriferous eflential oil, which 
concretes into a flaky form. 

Herb Christopher. Ste Chris- 
topher. 

Herb Gerard. 5« Angelica. 

Herb Paris, \HerbaParis.'] True- 
love or one berry. This a low plant, 
growing wild in fliady woods. It is 
iaid, but on no good grounds, to be an 
alexipharmsc. Gefner relates, that 
its juice has killed poultry ; and its 
fmell and tafte manifeftly agree, with 
thofe of the more virulent narcotic 
herbs. 

Herb Twopence, [Nuwtmularia.'j 
Moneywort. This grows fpontane- 
oufly in moift watery places, and 
creeps on the ground, with two little 
round:. r. leaves at each joint. Their 
tafte is fubaftringent, and very lightly 
acid : hence they fiand recommended 
by Boorhaave in the hotfeurvy, and in 
uterine and other ha?morrhagies. But 
their clftcls are fo inconficlerable, that 
common practice takes no notice of 
them. 

HekbRobibt, [G^iw/Vm.] This 
piant is found wild in moift meadowsj 
it is a fpecies of geranium. 

Herb William. See Bishops 
Weep. 

HEB.RIOT. By the laws of coun- 
tries, it appears, that at the death of 
any great men of the nation, fo many 
horfes and arms were to be paid, as 
they were in their life time obliged to 
keep for the King's fervice : but now 
it is taken for the beft beaft a tenant 
■fcas at the time of his death, due to the 



Lord by cuftom, being a horfe, ox, &c. 
and in fome manors the belt piece of 
plate, jewels, or goods, were taken. 
Herriot is of two forts, i. Herriot cuf- 
tom, where herriots have been paid by 
cuftom, after the death of the tenant; 2. 
Herriot fervice, when a tenant holds by 
fuch fervice a right to pay herriot at the 
time of his death; for this the Lord 
may diftrain, but for the other he may 
feize but not diftrain. If the Lord 
purchafe part of tenancy, herriot fervice 
is extinguished, but not the herriot 
cuftom. 

HERBACEOUS. Of the nature of 
an herb. 

HERBAGE. Grafs, pafture in ge- 
neral. It is ufed to fignify the tythe 
and ri<ht of pafture. 

HERMODACTYL, [Hcrmidaay- 
lu$.~\ This plant is a fpecies of the 
Iris, the root is of the fhape of a heart 
flatted, of a white colour, compact, 
yet eafy to cut or powder; of a vif- 
cous fweetifh tafte, with alight degree 
of acrimony. Hermodactyls were of 
great repute among the ancients as a 
cathartic; but thofe we now meet 
with in the fhops have very little pur- 
gative virtue : Neuman declares he ne- 
ver found them have any effect at all. 
The plants are propagated by the roots. 

HERD. A number of beafts toge- 
ther, generally black cattle. 

HERDSMAN. A keeper of herds, 
one employed in tending cattle. 

HERM ANNI A. This is an evergreen 
fhrub, of feveral fpecies, growing from 
eighteen inches to fix or feven feet 
high, blowing with yellow flowers, 
which appear in April and May, and 
the feeds ripen in Auguft. They re- 
quire the afiiftance of the green-houfe, 
and are propagated by cuttings & feetis. * , 

HIDE. The fkin of beafts, but Sjfr. * '/ 
particularly applied to thofe of large $ ? ,, /— 
cattle, as bullocks, cows, horfes, &c. * 

Hide of Land, Is fuch a quantity 
of land as may be ploughed with one 
plough within the compafs of a year, 
or fo much as would maintain a family; 
fome call it fixty, fome eighty, and 
fome an hundred acres. 

The diftribution of this kingdom by 
hides of land, is very ancient, mention 
being made of it in the laws of King 
Ina. Henry I, had three /hillings for 
every hide of land, in order to raife 
a dowry for his daughter : this tax 
was called hidage. 

HIDE-BOUND. 



srv/ 



ak 



h 



HOG 

HIDE-BOUND. A diftemper in 
horfes, when the (kin flicks fo faft to 
the back and ribs, that the hand can- 
not feparate the one from the other, 
without great difficulty ; his body is at 
the fame time lean, his back- bones 
ftand up, his guts are for the moft 
part deficient in moifture, and his dung 
dry, and more offenfive than common. 

If a horfe become hide- bound by 
hard riding and ill keeping, he may be 
cured by good keeping. If it be the 
effect of a fever, or fome ether difeafe, 
if that be cured which is the caufe, the 
effect will ceafe ; but if he has no fever 
upon him, and he is hide-bound only 
from lownefs of blood and fpirits, give 
him boiled barley, white-water, or the 
like, and when his flefli is raifed, har- 
den it with good oats or beans, and 
moderate exercife. 

HIGHTAPER. White mullein. 
Cow's lungwort. 

HINDBERRIES. Rafpberries;. 

HIPPOCRAS. Aromatic wine; 
wine with fpices. 

HIPS. Dog rofe. 

HOE. A tool made like a cooper's 
adz, to cut up weeds in gardens, fields, 
&c. This tool is commonly called the 
hand-hoe. 

This inftrument is of great ufe, and 
fhould be more employed in hacking 
and clearingthe feveral corners, cracks, 
and patches of land, in fpare times of 
the year, which would be of great ad- 
vantage thereto. 

Horfe Hoe. A large kind of hoe, 
drawn by horfes, and ufed to ftir the 
intervals in the drill hufbandry, and 
©lear the corn from weeds. 

HOG. A well-known animaljwhofe 
great recommendation to the farmer is, 
thecheapnefs of his food,which fets the 
hog above almoft any other animal in 
his efteem ; little is to be bought for 
that creature, &-he confumes very little 
of the flock of whatever kind, any thing 
contenting him that is eatable, though 
his appetite is greater than that of any 
ether animal. If food is to be raifed for 
the hog, it comes veryeafy; coleworts, 
crooked carrots, bean-fhells, and any 
of the coarfer vegetables, anfwer the 
purpofe; they grow anywhere, and are 
fownwith little trouble; and the word 
of thefe will keep the hog ; in which 
oondition he fupplies the family and 
the market, to a very good account. 

The flefh ferves the farmer in a va- 
iEty of forms, and when the more 



HOG 

marketable parts are difpofed of, there 
remains a great deal that anfwers the 
purpofe. 

The refufe of every thing ferves them 
for food, as whatever is thrown from 
the barn, the kitchen, or the dairy. 

Having named the good qualities of 
the hog, it is proper alfo to mention 
the bad : the farmer who is about to 
buy in his flock, fhould know at once 
the advantages and difadvantages at- 
tending every kind, that he may pur- 
chafe accordingly. The hog is the 
moft ravenous of all the creatures com- 
monly kept about lioufes. They fpoil 
and deftroy more than they eat, if they 
are not kept within due bounds, and 
with proper care : and their rooting up 
the ground is a very troublefome and 
mifchievous quality. No creature is 
more apt to break the farmer's fences 
than the hog; and between this and 
his tearing up the ground, and tramp- 
ling things to pieces, the mifchief he 
would do if left at large, would be 
endlefs, and all his value would not 
pay for it. 

Thefe are his ill qualities, they are 
therefore to be guarded againft ; and 
in proportion as the farmer is in dan- 
ger of being more hurt by them, and 
has itlefsin his power to prevent them 
by a proper method of keeping the 
creature, by fo much the more cauti- 
ous ought he to be in the buying any 
large number of thefe animals. 

Their rooting up the ground is pre- 
vented by putting rings in their nofes; 
and their breaking fences in fome de- 
gree by their being yoked. 

The breeds may bediftinguifhedinta 
three, i. The wild hog, which is 
fmall but hardy : it will feed upon lefs 
than any other, and its meat, though 
fmaller in quantity, is preferable to 
that of any other. 2. The common 
hog, which is larger, longer legged, 
and bigger boned than the wild, and 
affords an excellent bacon. 3. The 
low big-belly'd hog, which is of late 
become very common in moft parts of 
England. This lives cheap, is lefs 
mifchievous than the others, and breeds 
very faff. But is inferior to the com- 
mon fwine in its advantages to the 
farmer, all things being confidered 
together. 

Of thefe feveral kinds the low hog is 

to be chofen by thofe who live in and 

about large towns, to run about the 

ftreetSj 



HOG 



HOG 



ftrcets, where it takes care of itfrlf, 
and does better, beintr of a quitter dif- 
pofition than the other* : the farmer in 
the country is to chufe the common 
hog as beftfuifled to his purpofe, being 
the largeft in its growth, bringing forth 
a fufficient number at a litter, and be- 
ing eafily fatted for the fervice of his 
family, or for the market. 

In fome particular counties thefe 
creatures thrive better than in others, 
particularly in Hampfnire, Leicefter- 
fhire, and WarwJcHffiire. It will be 
therefore prudent, if it can be done 
with convenience, to buy the boss for 
breed from thefe places ; and let the 
purchnfer be very particular on this 
occafion in refpeel of their fh?pe. 

Let them be chofen with long and 
large bodies, deep fides ahd bellies, and 
very thick thighs; let the neck be thick, 
the nofe fhort, and the chine thick and 
well fet with large and ftrong briftle.s. 
When the farmer has taken care 
about a proper kind of hog for flock- 
ing his yard, and ur.derftands thus how 
to chufe them, let him next be careful 
in fuit'mg the number to th'ebignefs of 
bis yard, and to the quantity of provi- 
fion he will be able to fupply them 
with. And in this the care is, that he 
do not uke in too many 3 for no crea- 
ture breeds falter than the hog, and if 
he does not ufe moderation in the fet- 
ting out, he will be over-run with them. 
This great increafe depends partly 
upon the number the fow brings forth 
At a litter, and Partly from the fhort- 
riefs of the timfclhe goes with young. 
One of thefe creatures will have four 
litters in a year, and they will bring 
from eight to twenty at a time. So 
large a number as the laft is not com- 
mon, nor indeed is it natural, for the 
creature can bring up no more than 
{he has teats to fuckle. 

When a fow brings forth more than 
fhecan raife,^hey muft be put toother 
fows, if there be any in the yard in a 
proper condition to fuckle them; iif 
not, they muft be deftroyed, for there 
I., no raiting them. 

The more hogs there are in the yard, 
the more ravenous they are, for they 
grow greedy by obferving the eating of 
one another; and if there be not fuffi- 
eient food for them at the time when 
they give fuck efpecially, they will eat 
tip one another's young, or their own; 
fo that of all creatures in the ftock, the 



greateft care is to betaken with regard 
to thefe. that more are notisken in 
than can be fed. 

Let the farmer choofe out the largeft 
and flouteft of bis pigs for the continu- 
ing the breed; and one rule of judging 
early of their qualities in this refpecl is 
the obferving which they are that fuck 
the foremoft teats; for they all aim at 
this, and the ftrongeft get them. 

After the proper number of the befl 
and ftrongeft pigs are thu^ chofen out 
to be reared as boars and fows for 
breeding, fuch as are not difpofed of 
while pigs for the : pit, are to be gelt 
orfpayed according to their fex. This 
prodigioufly increafes their fat, efpeci- 
ally that of the females. 

Greit quantities of hogs are raifed 
at this time by the brewers and malt 
diftillers, becaufeof the convenience of 
their grains ; but of this more need not 
be faid here, the method being known 
and eafy, and at this time delivered 
down among the rudiments of thofe 
profeffions to fuch as learn them. 
They are kept clean and well fed, and 
nothing more is required to their per- 
fect thriving. 

There are two different ways of ma- 
naging the flefh of the hog for fervice j 
the one for pork, and the other for ba- 
con. According to the choice of thefe, 
the age of the creature is to be diffe- 
rent. About nine months old is the 
proper age for killing pork, and the fi- 
neft time for bacon is when they are a 
year and a half. 

As to the time of their breeding, ths 
ftouteft and beft pigs are to be had 
from fows of three, four, or five years 
old, but they will begin to breed at a 
year old, and will very well continue 
till they are feven : the three years we 
have named are however the prime. 
The age of the boar is to be confidered >- / 
by thofe who would keep up a good 
breed, as well as that of the fow; he 
fhould not be lefs than two years old, 
nor more than five. 

The boar is no lofs at the end of this 
time ; he may be fold for brawn, if an 
opportunity offers; if not, he may be 
gelt, and will fatten very well : nor 
does the operation, though performed 
fo late, do him any harm. 

A great deal of prudence is required 
in the management of this creature. 
An error any way in refpecT: to their 
food, is very prejudicial ; for the gene- 
ral 



HOG 



HOG 



ral courfe of their lives, it matters not 
much what it is, but due care muff be 
had about the quantity. If they are 
allowed too little, they will be continu- 
ally ravenous and mifchievous, and if 
they are fed too plentifully, they will 
not be healthful. They fhould be kept 
in heart and ftrength by moderate feed- 
ing, till the time they areto be fattened 
up for killing ; and on this article de- 
pends, in every refpeft, a great part of 
the profit that fhall arife from them to 
the owner. 

As to the manner of feeding hogs, 
the belt method is to keep them for 
the mofi part in the yard : their food 
there fhould be wafh every morning 
and evening, fuch as difh-water with 
grounds of drink, and a few grains or 
other offal : for the rell of the day they 
may be occafionally fuffered to graze, 
efpecially in damp fedgy grounds, and 
the refufe of the garden is to be thrown 
to them in the yard. Such of this as 
they do not eat, they will tread to pie- 
ces, and with their dung and urine it 
will become excellent manure. 

Hogs feed excellently in woods, and 
under hedges in autumn, when the 
wild fruits are ripe and falling ; they 
eat every kind ; hips, haws, floes, 
acorns and beechmaft, and thefe are a 
— .- . 'very "natural and excellent food for 
£ them. If hogs could be fed thus con- 
ftantly, their flefh would be fweeter 
and better tafted than it is in the com- 
mon way of fattening them; but in 
fome places there is but little of this 
food ; then it falls out only at one fea- 
fon of the year, and the creature is not 
well to be trufted. When all things 
concur, the flefh of a hog thus fed is 
excellent: fome think this food alone 
will not give the required firmnefs to 
the fat, but experience fhews they are 
miftaken. 

When hogs are to be fatted in the 
Aye, cleanlinefs is a very great article. 
They mull alfo be fed often, and not 
too much fet before them at a time, for 
their ravenous appetites will lead them 
to eat more than they can digeft. 
Their food muff be frefh and good, they 
muff have js much frefh andfweet wa- 
ter as they chafe to drink, and be kept 
quiet. In this manner they will fat- 
ten foon and well ; their fat will be 
firm, and their flefh well tafted. 

Nothing anfwers fo well in all re- 
flects for the fattening of hogs as the 

Voi, I. 



fruit of the wild trees ; they have air 
and exercife while they get it, they 
live clean, arid it is their natural food : 
thefe are great reafons, but where there 
is not a convenience of getting this 
food, or tfee feafon of the year does not 
fuit, the way is to fatten them up al- 
together in ltyes, and this is to be done 
with peafe, or when they happen to • 
be dear, the meal of offal corn will an- 
fwerthe purpofe : thefe aie to be mix- 
ed up with whey or fkimmiik, or milk 
and water, and the creature will never 
fail to fatten upon any of them. 

It will take about a month to fat- 
ten a hog in this way, fuppofing him 
to have been in a good condition be- 
fore. Peafe, when they are to be had, 
are to be preferred to the other foods ; 
and there is fuch an opinion of their 
effect in giving firmnefs, and a clean 
tafte to the fat of the bacon, that in 
places, or at times when they happen 
to be dear,- although the hog oe fatted 
up with other things, they generally 
give him a good quantity of peafe the 
laft week. 

Hogs will ravenoufly eat the buds of 
many trees ; particularly the am and fy- 
camore, and it. is a practice in fome pla- 
ces to beat down fycamore leaves for 
their food, upon which they will fatten. 

The inconvenience from hogs root- 
ing up the ground, has been menti- 
oned already, and the common method 
of preventing it, which is by putting a 
ring in their nofe ; but as this is often 
ineffectual, and a great deal of mifchief 
is fometimes done very unexpectedly 
by thefe creatures, we fhall propofe, to 
the imitation of the farmer in general, 
a method much more fecure, which has 
been long practifed in Staffordfliire, 
and fome of the neighboring counties, 
although it has not got into ufe in all 
parts of the kingdom. 

Inftead of the ring they ufe a forked 
iron, armed at each point with a fin 
like the half of an anow head. This 
being thruft through the edge of the 
hog's nofe, cannot be got back, and 
they cap the bottom or fquare part of 
the fork that lies upon the nofe with a 
long and hollow ring, which turns 
round upon it ; fo that the creature 
can never take hold enough to turn up 
the earth. This is a contrivance very 
eafy, and it fliows its own ufe. The 
damage hogs often do by rooting up 
the ground is fufficiently known, and 

3 P man 



HOG 



H O M 



many have found how unfit the com- 
mon method by rings is to prevent it. 
This will never tail perfectly co anfwer 
its intent, and ought therefore to be 
univerfal. 

Clover is an excellent food for the 
hog, but it is not bell; to make it the 
only food, for it is apt to give a yellow- 
nefs to the fitfh, which hurts it in the 
market. The belt mtthod of giving hogs 
clover is, at the fame time that they 
are feeding at other hours of the day 
on other things. Thus let them be 
turned out of the five without their 
breakfaft of wafhin the morning, that 
they may have a good ftomach tor the 
clover, and at the right feafon be dri- 
ven into the field with the horned cat- 
tle. At evening let them be brought 
home, and fed with wafh mixed with 
grains or corn, or let them have, in- 
itead of the wafh, a great deal of fkim 
milk or whey. This is the manner in 
which hogs may be fed to the greateft 
advantage upon clover : and it is a 
very good method of managing them. 
Bran and pollard fatten hogs, but 
the flefh is not fo firm : nothing for 
this purpofe anfwers like the pea or 
bean ; a great variety of foods might 
be mentioned for a creature that will 
eat any thing, but there are none of 
them come up to thefe, which are na- 
tural to the animal. 

The beft food is fkim milk, whey, 
and the artificial graffes. After a week 
or ten days, it will be proper to add 
bran or grains to the whey or milk; 
and foon after this they may have peafe 
and beans in moderation, and this \vill 
increafe their growth, and make their 
flefh better. After this, if they have 
been pig'd in an early frafon, they will 
come in for a fhare of the ltubbling 
and beeclirnaft,which will at once raife 
them Beyond expeclation. 

A great deal of advantage in this re- 
fpecl is owing to the feafon of being 
pig'd ; the fpring, or early in the fum- 
. mer, is the beft time for thofe that are 
intended to be brought up; thofe that 
are farrowed near winter, if ever fo 
much care is taken of them, growing 
flowly, they are often flunted in their 
growth ; and they are always more 
fubjedi to difeafes than thofe which 
come at a more favourable time. 
Hoc. A flieep oi a year old. 
HOGGRELL. Hog fheep. 
HOGS FENNEL. See Fennel, 



HOGS PLUMB, [Spondias.] Ja- 
maica plumb. This is a fpecies of 
plumb-tree growing to the height of 
tweive or fourteen feet in the Weli- 
Indies. Another fort grows to the 
height of thirty feet, which bears yel- 
low plumbs an inch and half long. 

HOG WEED, [Boerhaawa.] There 
are three fpecies of this plant which are 
annual, and one perennial, the former 
grow to the height of two, three, and 
four feet, the latter is a trailing plant. 
They are all propagated by feeds, and 
are too tender to bear the open air in 
England. 

HOLLOW ROOT. Fumatory. 
HOLLY, [I/ex.] The fpecies are. 
i. The common holly. 2. The hedge- 
hog holly. 3. The Carolina or Dahoon 
holly. Of the firfl fort there are feve- 
rai varieties, with variegated leaves. 
The common holly grow;, naturally in 
woods and forefts, where it riles fome- 
times to the height of thirty feet. It 
is propagated by feeds which do not 
come up the firft year; the varieties 
may be propagated by grafting and 
budding. 

The fecond fort grows naturally in 
Canada, and the third is a native of 
Carolina. They are both propagated 
as the firft, but the berries of the Da- 
hoon muff be imported from Carolina. 
.KnftfFIoLLY, [Rufcus.~\ This plant 
is common in woods in many parts of 
England, the ftalks rife to the height of 
three feet, fending forth feveral fhort 
branches with prickly leaves ; the flow- 
ers are of a purple colour, and are fuc- 
ceeded by berries almoft as large as 
cherries, which ripen in winter and are 
of a deep red colour. 

There are feveral fpecies of this plant 
kept in the gardens ; they are all hardy 
evergreens, and are ealily propagated 
by parting the roots. 

Sea Holly. See Ervngo. 
HOLLYHOCK, [ALea.] This 
plant, though a native of a warm cli- 
mate, bears the air of England very 
well, and is a proper ornament for a 
large garden. It is eafily propagated 
by feeds ("own in April. 
HOLY HERB. Vervain. 
Holy Rose, [Ciftus.'] Rock rofe. 
HOLT. A wood. 
HOLM. An ifland in a river. 
Holm. Holly. 

HOME-STALL. Thehoufe and its 
appurtenances, as yard, barn, &c. 

HONEY. 



HON 



H O N 



HONEY. Thefweetproduftio-cf 
<hebees. See Bee. 
'cX. Honey Dew, o r Mildew . T!:e 
- " ' mildew which lights upon hops is a 
white dew, that falls in Cummer at fun- 
rife, chiefly when the hops are in 
flower. Its fall is fo unequal, that 
it fometimes embraces a whole diftrift, 
and fometimes only part of it. This 
dew dries up the hops, withers and 
confumes their leaves, and confe- 
quently ruins the crop. "There is" 
(fay the authors of the journal Oecono- 
mique, whofe account of this diftem- 
per, to which hops are extremely lia- 
ble, we fhall copy here) "no other re- 
medy from nature againft tills mif- 
chance, except rain fufneient to wafh 
the plant, and clear it entirely from this 
fatal dew : but as rain feldom comes 
quite feafonably to the relief of the 
plant thus affected, artificial means 
have been fought, for infuring it 
againft this accident. Some have fur- 
rounded their hop grounds with hogs- 
dung ; others have employed perfons 
to go through the ground with veffels 
full of beech-afhes, and to throw them 
upon the hops while the mildew was 
falling ; and both fides, profiting by 
their experience, pretend to havefourd 
a fpecific prefervative againft: the bad 
effects of the mildew. They have 
even proceeded fo far, as that each fide 
affirm their's to be the only remedy. 
Thole who ufe hog-dung fay, that the 
allies may probably hinder the aftion 
of the dew upon the plant, but that 
they muft, at the fame time, ftop up 
its pores, and deprive the foil of its 
humidity; a circumftance equally rui- 
nous to the plant: and that be] 
beech is not to be found every where, 
and if it mult be brought from afar, 
the remedy would in fome meafure 
become impracticable, by the fcarc'ty 
and -difficulty of procuring it. The 
partizans of the afhes fay, that ihey 
cannot comprehend how hog-dung laid 
round the hop-ground in the fpring, 
mould preferve fuch virtue as to <!<.- 
itroy the bad quality of this mildew in 
the fummer. In fhort, to render this 
difcuffion comple.-.t, each fide alledges, 
that the trials which they have made of 
the other's remedy, did not fucceed. 

HONEYSUCKLE, [Periclymenufit.] 
The principal varieties of this plant 
are, i , Englifh wild honeyfuckle, or 
woodbine, z. The Dutch or German 



honeyfuckle. 3. The Italian hooey_ 
fuckle. 4. The evergreen or trumpet 
flowered honeyfuckle. The tirft fort 
grows wild in woods and hedges, and 
produces abundance of flowers, which 
are improved by garden culture. The 
German honeyfuckle produces beauti- 
ful red flowers of a fragrant fmell in 
June and July. The flowers of the 
Italian honeyfuckle are white, with 
varieties of red early and late blowing 
and yellow. The fourth fort is diftin- 
guifhable by the flowers gi owing in 
whorled fpikes, of a deep fcarlet colour 
ol great beauty, but little fragrance. 

All the forts are prop, gated by lay- 
ers or cuttings; by layers in autumn, 
winter, or fpring. By cuttings any 
time from March to October. 

Upright Honeysuckle, [Loni en . J 
The fpecies of this plant ate, 1. The 
alpine upright red-berried honeyfuckle, 
with a fhrubby, fhort, thick, upright 
ftem. 2. Blue-berried upright bohey- 
fuckle, which flowers in May. 3. Black- 
berried upright honeyfuckle, branching 
three or four feet high, flowering in 
May. 4. Xylolteum or fly honeyfuc- 
kle, branching feven or eight feet, the 
branches having whitifh bark, flower- 
ing in June. 5. Tartarian honeyfuc- 
kle riling three or four feet. 6. Yel- 
low flowered Acadian honeyfuckle, 
flowering in May and June, and conti- 
nue fometimes to autumn. 7, Shrub- 
by St. Peter's- wort, which flowers in 
Auguff. They may all be propagated 
by cuttings. t ec nfro /s/SJ&l C/#U9l 

Frenth Hoxeysuckle. See French 
Hon eyscckle, 

HONESTY, [Lunaria."] This is an 
annual plant, riling with a branching 
ftalk two or three feet high, covered 
with a reddifh hairy bark, garnifhed 
with heart-fhaped leaves. The flowers 
appear in duffer*, and are followed by 
ronndifh flat pods, which contain two 
rows of kidney-fhaped feeds. There 
are two or three fpecies, all propaga- 
ted by ftfwing the feeds in Autumn, 

Honey Flower, [Meiianihus.'} 
There are two foecie* ; the greater, 
and the fmaller, or Itinking honey 
flower. They are both natives of the 
Cape of Good Hope. The firft rifes 
withfoft hollow ftaiks to the he. sin of 
fix or ("even leet. The flowus of a 
chocolate colour are produced in 1 ng 
fpikes from thetop of the ftaiks. This 
is eafily propagated by fuckers. 

3 D z The 



HOP 



HOP 



The fecond fort rifes to the height of 
five or fix feet, the flowers come from 
the fides of the flalks in loofe hanging 
bunches. This may be propagated by 
cuttings planted on an old hot-bed. 

MONEYWORT, [Cerwthe.] This 
is an annual plant with fmooth branch- 
ing ftalks a foot and a half long, with 
cval prickly leaves and yellow flow- 
ers. There are fevera! varieties, all 
propagated by feeds. 

HOOK. An inftrument to reap 
with. t. * f * «.*■'- 

HOPS, [Lupu/us.'] All hops love a 
rich mellow foil, and to make a hop- 
gardt- , the land fhould be well prepa- 
red with manure and tillage; the bell 
fituation for a hop-garden is under the 
fhetterof a hill open to the fouth, and 
well defended to the eaft and north. 

When the land is very well prepa- 
red in October, or eife in March or 
even April, let the fpots be pointed out 
at the fquare diffance of about feven 
feet ; here let holes be dug and three or 
four fets planted in each hole, chufing 
good Arong fhoots for the purpofe, 
which fhould be about ten inches long, 
and have four joints or buds, planting 
them as foon as you can. Let the mid- 
dle of each hole be filled with a com • 
pofl of old rotten dung, and rich virgin 
mould mixed together, to the depth of 
a foot or more. About a thoufand 
hiils are the number for an acre of 
ground. 

The plantation being thus formed, 
the next care is to keep it clean from 
weeds by hoeing: the firfi hoeing will 
be requifite in May, choofing dry wea- 
ther, and as you proceed, draw a little 
mould round about each hill to form a 
greater body of earth immediately 
about theplar.ts, continuing the hoeing 
during the fummer as there fhall be 
occafion. 

The plants will flioot forth into vine 
tolerably ftrcng, early the fame year ; 
lb that in Ma; fmall poles may be pla- 
ced to each hill, for them to run upon, 
as hereafter diredted, and they will 
produce a few hops the fame year, 
though fome do not pole them at all 
the firft feafon . o :ly twill the vine into 
a bunch in June at top of each hill, 
regardlefs of any crop, as it is apt to 
weaken the young plants. 

The next neceflary work is in fpring 
following to drefs or prune the hops, 
sad February and March is the proper 



feafon, when the ground is to be dug or 
ploughed, and the earth about the hills 
of plants be removed away near to the 
flocks or roots, clearing it quite away 
from the tops of the principal roots 
with an iron picker, for the conveni- 
ence of pruning clofe to the head of 
the flock ; then with a fharp knife 
trim off all the (hoots of larl year, or 
the remaining part of them, clofe to 
the heads of the (locks or fets; clear- 
ing away alfo all young fuckers, and 
directly trim in the earth around each 
hill, and cover the top of the flocks 
with mould two or three inches thick ; 
and this is to be every year repeated. 

After this the plants will foon flioot 
forth irjto vine, or bine, when long 
poles, about fifteen or twenty feet in 
length, mull be placed for them to run 
upon : April or the beginning of May, 
when the fhoots are a foot long, is the 
feafon for this work ; three poles mull 
be fet to each hill, around the outfide, 
let deep into the ground, by making 
holes for them with an iron crow, fo 
as to place them with their tops incli- 
ning a little outward from each other, 
to keep the plants from entangling, 
and a fpace between two of them be 
left open toward the fouth, to admit 
the fun more freely. 

The hops being thus poled, they 
will for the genei al part naturally twine 
themfelves about the poles, obferving 
to direct fuch with the hand as do not 
readily catch hold of themfelves, turn- 
ing them the way of the fun's motion, 
and tie them loofely with dried rufhes 
or other foft bandage, training two or 
three vines to each pole, and all above 
that mould be plucked up, if the plan- 
tation be old; but if young, wrap 
them up together in the middle of the 
hills. 

The next work is fummer-digging. 
in the beginning of June, which is dig- 
ging about the hills, and calling up 
fome fine earth around and upon each, 
which is fometimes repeated again the 
beginning of July, to make all the hills 
of a proper fubftance, for the better 
nourilhing of the plants. 

After the plants are grown up, if 
you find any of them under-poled, 
taller poles mufl be placed near thofe 
that are too fhort, to receive the vines 
from them ; for unlefs they have due 
length of pole, they will not yield a 
full crop; and if the vines are very 
ftrong 



HOP 



HOP 



Strong, and over -cop the poles, it is 
common to Strike off the heads of the 
Shoots with a Switch, whereby they 
throw out many lateral branches, well 
charged with clutters of fruit. 

In July the hops will blow, and to- 
waids the end of Auguft will begin to 
ripen ; the tokens oi which are the 
bunches of fruit imparting a Strong 
hop-like fcent, dry and hard to the 
touch, and browniSh colour of the feed. 

At thefe tokens of maturity the hops 
are fit for gathering, when they fhould 
be picked with all poSfible expedition, 
for a Sudden ftorm of wind, or great 
tains, would do considerable damage, 
by breaking down the vine and dif- 
colouring the hop. 

This work of picking the hops mud 
be performed in dry weather if pi 

A certain number of bills in a fquare 
Space is to be cleared at a time, gene- 
rally about eleven, and a large I 
bin, or wooden fiame, eight feet long 
by three broad, having a cloth within 
hanging on tenter-hooks, is to be pla- 
ced in the centre to receive the hops ; 
then proceeding to the work of pick- 
ing, cut up the vine of the above num- 
ber of hills, and pull up the poles, 
ufinga wooden inftrument like a lever, 
having at one end a forked piece of 
iron with teeth on the infide, which 
will readily raife them out of the 
ground: then laying two poles at a 
time acrofs the bin, two or three per- 
fons may ftand on each fide to pick 
the hops therein, picking them very 
clean without leaves and Stalks; and 
as the bin is filled, it muft be emptied 
two or three times a day, as there may 
be occafion, into a hop-bag, and car- 
ried to the kiln to dry. 

The kiln for drying hops is the fame 
as a malt kiln, covered with a hair 
cioth, on which they fpread the hops, 
which fhould be fpread ten or twelve 
inches thick; and a charcoal fire is 
commonly tiled* continuing a Steady 
even fire, not fierce, but rather increafe 
it by degrees, and in about nine hours 
iet the hops be turned, and in two or 
three hours more they may b< 
off, by that time thebrittlen fs 
ftalks, and eafy falling ci the ieaves, de- 
termine thorn to bo Sufficiently dried. 

Tbey are then to be varied imo cry 
upper rooms, to lit three or four weeks 
to toughen, otherwise they would be- 
come powder in bagging. 



The bagging is performed in large 
bags made of about four ells and a 
half of eli-wide coarfe cicth ; about a 
handful cf hops is firit t;ed into each 
corner at bottom, to ferve as handles ; 
the bag is then fattened to a hole of 
due width in the floor, made tor that 
purpoSe, having a hoop fastened to the 
liiouth of the bag, on which it refts on 
the edges or the hole; then a perfon 
puts the hops into the bag, while ano- 
ther is continually treading them down, 
till the bag is full; the bsgis then un- 
faftened from the hoop, and lei down, 
and the mouth clofed up, tsing a hand- 
ful oi heps alio in each corner, as in 
the bottom part ; they are then ready 
for market. 

The mod considerable plantations 
of hops in England, are in Kent, and 
Surry, and feme parts of Sufiex and 
Hampshire, but more particularly 
here the hop gardens exhibit a 
moil delightful appearance infummer, 
and from which county it is amazing 
to fee the number of great waggon 
loads daily brought to London in . Sep- 
tember and Qdtober, principally to the 
borough of Southwark, where are the 
magazines of them for the ftip- 
ply of the brewery ; grest quantities 
are alio brought by water and deposi- 
ted in warehoufes in Thames-Street, 
belonging to the hop-factors. 

A plantation of hops will continue 
in good bearing Several years, provided 
round is properly manured. 

The pioper manure is well -rotted 
dung, or a compoft of dung and eai th 
together, prepared Some time tor that 
purpofe; and of either, from about 
twenty to forty cart load> ia the com- 
mon allowance for an acre; the lor- 
mer quantity is generally allowed 
when dung is Scarce, laying it only 
along the hills r i plants to he dug in, 
in winter or Spring , but the heft way is 
to allow about forty load) and dig or 
plough it in any litne from October 
effing need 
not be repeated but once in two or 
three years 

vear after the ground ib clear- 
ed from the 1. . hould he taken 
of the poies, which, ii thev tonic be 
laid une'e any covered place, would 
greatly preserve them ; but for want of 
Such convenience, they are placed in 
parcels upright in the open air, fnrfl 
fixing three or fix poles firmly in the 
ground, 



II O R 



ilOR 



ground, in a triangular manner, wide at 
bottom, and tied together at top; then 
fet as many of the reil of the poles 
about them as fhall feem convenient 
in each parcel. 

As the poles decay, they muft be 
recruited with new ones. 

The poles may be of any wood, but 
the forts commonly ufed are afh, birch, 
maple, fycamore, willow, poplar, and 
chefmit, the latter of which is the 
moft durable of all. 

It requires about three thou fand poles 
to an acre, allowing three to each hill. 

HOREHOUND, [Marrubium.] 
Thefe plants have a very ftrong, but not 
difagreeablefme:l, and a roughifh very 
bitter tafte. Behdes the virtues which 
they poffefs in common with other 
ftrong bitters, they are fuppofed to be 
peculiarly ferviceable in humouialafth- 
mas and coughs, the yellow jaundice 
proceeding from a vifcidity of the bile, 
and other chronical diforders. They 
are certainly a powerful aperient and 
deobltruent, promote the fluid fecreti- 
ons in general, and, liberally taken, 
loofen the belly. 

Black Hoi fiiound, [Eallota.] This 
is a common weed, growing on the 
tides of banks, with varieties of white 
and purple flowers. 

Bafe Horehound, [Stachfs.^ This 
is a low plant witli creeping roots, 
growing wild in ditches. Some fpe- 
cies are kept in botanic gardens, and 
propagated by feeds fown in March. 
Bajlard Ho r ihousd. Ironwort. 
Water Hosihovnd, [L-; 
This grows plentifully on moilt foils 
hy the fides of ditches in many parts of 
England. . 

HORNBEAM. See S e r v i c e1jw 
. HORNED POPPY. Celandine. 

N HORSE. It is not the purpofehere 
t\* to conlider the horfe as the racer, or in 
<■• the menage, but as the ufeful fervant 
v£S of the hufbandman, who is to buy 
s^ him for his purpofes, with remem- 
brance, that if he can breed from him, 
fell him at an advantage, or any other 
way make him produce a certain pro- 
fit, it is all within the compafs of his 
profeffion. We would no more have 
<\ the farmer a jockey, than we would 
^^ have him a fportfman ; but fo much of 
vV" every branch that regards this animal, 
V "as may be ufeful to himfelf, without 
^ tranfgreffing the bounds of his proper 
' prcfeffion, we would have him know, 



>> 



and (o much we fhall endeavour to in- 
form him. 

The horfe for the plough mull be" 
ftrong no matter for his thape. But 
for the cart, fome cart- fhould be ufed 
in the choice, and in the fize. Thefc 
fhould i . e big breafted, large bodied, and 
ftrong limb'd ; and they fhould always 
be bought of a moderate fize, not 
only that they may match with one 
another; but that others may ea lily be 
got to match with them when any 
die, become ufelefs, or are fold out. 

The having horfes for flow draught 
all ot a fize, or nearly fo, is a very con- 
fiderable article; for otherwife the 
team never work equally, nor at eafe 
to themfelves; and the hufbandman 
has not the advantage of half their 
ftrer.gth, though they go through an 
equal fatigue: the tall horfes hanging 
up the low ; and it being altogether im- 
poffible that they fhould draw evenly 
together. 

It is a benefit in the horfe intended 
for this ft rvice to be fluggifh : the fit- 
teft for it are fuch as require the whip 
rather than fuch as are ready to draw 
more than needful. 

One thing more we fhall obferve to 
the farmer, which is, that he avoid 
that very common fault, the making 
one horfe ferve for different ufes. No- 
thing is fo wrong. Let him never put 
lie upon his cart or draught 
horfes, for it alters them In their pace, 
and renders them aukvvard and trou- 
blefome in their ordinary and proper 
labours. 

Mares are naturally more profitable 
tiiati horfes, becaufe befide, their labour 
and fervice, they yeaily will bring forth 
.a colt. But let not the young farmer 
refolve at once, for this reafon, upon 
the buying that fex, he muft look fur- 
ther. If he has a great deal of paf- 
turc ground, in proportion to his ara- 
ble, then he will do right to (lock him- 
felf with mares; but on the contrary, 
where the arable land is the greateft 
quantity, and the pafture but little, he 
will find it much more to his advan- 
tage to have ftone-horfes or geldings. 

When the nature of the farm thus 
recommends it to the hufbandman to 
purchafe mares rather than horfes, he 
is to remember that it is of more im- 
portance to him to confider their fhape : 
becaufe on that will, in fome meafure, 
depend the value of the breed. 

Let 



HOR 



H O R 



Let him chufe his mares with a good 
forehand ; the neck, breaft, and moul- 
ders, are in this refpect to be his prin- 
cipal regard; for as to the red cf the 
fhape,it is not of fo much confluence. 

But though he does not much regard 
the fhape, let the body be large; for it 
is a great advantage for the foal to 
have room while it is growing in the 
mare's belly. 

The foals that the hufbandman (hall 
have from mares thus chofen, will 
pay him very well for his care. 

After his fhape, lee the purchafer 
obferve his going, and examine care- 
fully his pace. That horfe is heft for 
his fervice that takes the Moutefi and 
bell ftride wit!', his feet. He is neither 
to trot nor gallop, ail his bufinefs is a 
foot pace; and for this purpofe the 
horfe that takes the largeft iteps always 
goes evenelt and edliefi, and rids 
ground the fartelt. 

The horfes being purchafed for the 
farm, according to the feveral necelTary 
labours of the plough, the cart, or car- 
riage, the next thing to be considered 
is their management; and this is very 
eafy. Thefe creatures, which are detai- 
ned to coarfe fervice, require nothing 
of thofe pampered methods which are 
needful to the fine horfes, that are ren- 
dered delicate by idlentfs. They re- 
quire nothing of thole walkings and 
great care, and nice dreffings; but what 
they do require, let the farmer fee they 
have duly and regularly. 

Let them be well drefled, and their 
bellies well filled : for otherwife they 
will never be able to go through their 
talks of drudgery. Let their fhoes and 
their backs be confiantly looked to "j 
and little or nothing more is neceiTaty. 

Let their food be fweet hay, with 
a little corn and chaff, fingle or mixed 
together, according to the owner's con- 
venience: once in a week or ten days 
let him always give them fome warm 
grains and fait : this will keep them in 
health, for they will efeape moft of the 
common diforders of horfes, by their 
conftanr exercifeand labour, with this 
little needful care. 

For what may be further needful, 
according to the particular circumftan- 
ces and condition of the horfe, we 
fhall in a few words obferve : that if 
bleeding appear requifite, fpring or 
fall is the time, or both. If there be 
(danger of any diforder about his head, 



It Is good now and then to burn a little 
frankincenfe under his nofe, when he is 
about to lie down at night. In the 
heat of fummer it is very good to take 
a labouring horfe into deep water, and 
fwim him now and then. 

It "will do no horfe any harm to be 
bled every fpring and fal|; but if once 
this be marie into a cullom, let it be 
regularly obferved t for fo fure as it is 
omitted he will have fome diforder. 
Nature expects thefe artificial difchar- 
ges, if they have been brought into a 
cuftom, as regularly as if they were 
her own, and can no moie do without 
them. 

A fat horfe fhould drink often, and 
but a little at a time; but if an horfe 
be lean, let him drink as he pleafes. 

A great deal of rubbing does a great 
deal of good : every horfe likes it, and 
every horfe is greatly benefited by it. 
A horfe fhould always be turned to 
grafsoncea year; for it cools his blood, 
fcours off all foul humours, and pre- 
pares his ftomach to receive the full 
nourifhment from his other food. 
Nothing tends fo greatly to the piefer- 
ving the hufbandman's cattle as this; 
nor is there any thing fo prejudicial to 
them as the omiffion. 

In the choice of a horfe for the fad- 
die, let the hufbandman obferve to get 
one of as good a fhape as his price will 
afford ; for it is a general and very good 
rule, that the value of a horfe for the 
road may be judged of by his truth of 
form. 

Let him fee that his head be lean, 
his eyes prominent or Fu If, and his 
n"ck well raifed. Let his chine be 
alfo well rifen, his joints ftrong, and 
his patterns short and ftrait. and fo 
St rong as~not to bend in going : and let 
his hoofs be found, tough, and hollow. 

Laft of all, let him examine his tem- 
per and difpofition. In this he fhould 
be moderate : too dull a jade is as 
bad as a run-away. The hufbandman 
wants his nag for fervice, and let him 
chufe him fuch as will do his bufinefs 
freely, without continual whipping 
and fpurring; and yet will not be ea- 
ger to go on when there is nooccaficn. 

This care having been taken in the 
buying of the horfe, the next concern 
is the feeding of him. His general 
food fhould be fine hay in winter, and 
fweet grafs in fummer; and to thefe 
are to be added dry oats, and beans, 
according 






HOK 



H O R 



according to bis ftomach or occafions. 
When he is u^on exercife, let him be 
watered two hours before he is taken 
out to ride, and kt biro be rubbed, 
dreffed, and fed; and after this let 
him be bridled up, and ftand an hoqr 
before he is mourned. 

At fctt'mg out on a journey, ol 
always that the reafcrable method is 
to travel moderately in a morning, till 
the borfe be warmed, and then to en- 
creafe the fpeed as occafion requires. 

At night the horfe fhould be watered 
two mill . comes to b 

Key's end : and then let him be ! 
in warm; and let him be fet up in a 
warm liable, well ruboed, and well 
littered. 

Let him have n o meat w hile he is in 
a fweat in any part, but when he is 
dry let him be rubbed and fed, accord- 
ing to his ftomach and duty. 

If at any time the road borfe wants 
appetite, let the rider cbferve to change 
his food, for thefe creatures low vari- 
ety as well as ourfelves ; and will of. 
ten be tempted to eat new me?t when 
they would not have touched the eld. 
If this d^es not anfwer,. let there be a 
fmall quantity ol white wine, fait, and 
•vinegar rcther, and let his 

tongue and •nostrils be rubbed with it ; 
this feldom fails to recover his appe- 
tite. 

After this, !et the rider look well to 
his back and to his feet. Let him fee 
that the faddle does net gall, not the 
girths pinch him ; that the fhoes be 
large enough, and that they fit fa ft and 
eafy. 

The belt fen fen of the year for put- 
ting the fiailions and m ares to gche: is 
about the middle oi March. The rea- 
fon of this is, that the time of foaling 
is of great conference : for the foal 
that falls in March is much more pro- 
fitable than that which falls in -May, it 
having the advantage of a part of the 
cold of that fe;.fon, and the whole en- 
fuingwinterto harden it. Experience 
fhews, that this is of great confe- 
q'Jence: for the colts foaled in March 
are always four.d to ftand better, and 
be lefs liable to accidents and injuries, 
than thai in the year. 

A great cU ■<: of i are oug'ht to be ta- 
ken to keep , . me, and a very 
■ way to effect this, is by giving 
daily fome work, for this accuf- 
ilejti to be tended ■-:.''. handled : 



whereas, when they run free the great 
eft part of their time, as is the cafe very 
frequently among thofe who can fpare 
their lahour, they are difficult to be 
kept in order; to be removed from 
one pafture to another, as occafion re- 
quires, or to have the foals properly 
tended. 

A great deal of nicety is ufed in the 
breeding horfes for the finer employ- 
ments, but it is the husbandman we 
are directing, and he may, in the man- 
ner we have fhewn, avoid the trouble 
and exper.ee of houfing his n.ares, and 
all that ceremony commonly pracrifed; 
and he will often have better foals than 
thofe who obferve the molt exact rules ; 
as we fee frequently, nay commonly, 
the children of ordinary people mere 
healthy and itrong than thofe of qua- 
lity, who are brought into the world 
with a great deal more pomp and cere- 
mony. 

When mares are kept altogether for 
breeding, it may be proper to beftow 
feme more care and expence upon 
them than nfually is done when they 
breed and work together; and it is the 
owner's bufinefs then to keep them as 
clolely to it as may be. In this cafe 
it is a good method to feed them richly 
for a fortnight before their foaling, 
which will give them ltrength and 
plenty of milk : it will make them 
ready alfo the quicker to take horfe 
again. 

Where a mare is thus managed, fhe 
may be led to the ftallion three weeks 
after her foalin g, and her foal may run 
by her till ihe comes^again. 

The weaning of a foal, at whatever *+•'/ 
age or particular time it be done, is an_ /// 
article of great confequence; and upon 
the proper conducting of it depends in 
a great degree the future value of the 
creature. If care be not taken in die 
article of weaning, and in thefummer- 
ing and wintering the colt for three 
years afterwards, he will never be 
worth nearly what he might under this 
right management. 

The colt that is to be weaned fhould 
be taken from its dam over night, and 
driven into fome warm and fheltered 
place out of her hearing; it muff be 
fed ca;efully, and well in the morning ; 
and from tnat time thoroughly attended 
forfo i or five days : in that fpace it 
will have forgot the dam ; and may 
be turned out to take its chance : but 

care 



" • • ' ..>-£ 



/S/ ' 



H O R 



M O R 



care muft be taken to keep It out of 
hearing of the dam for that whole fu tu- 
rner, after which there will be no need 
of any particular caution. 

Such colts as are intended for geld- 
ings, are to be gelt at the time of 
their weaning, and then the fame care 
ferves, and as foon as thofe few days 
already directed are over, the part will 
be healed, and will occafion no further 
trouble. 

After this the colts fliould be fepa- 
rated from the fillies, and each parcel 
turned out apart into fome open paf- 
ture where they may have room, and a 
free good air; and may run at liberty 
till they are fit to be broke for the fad- 
die, or for the fervice of husbandry. 

Some practice the gelding of their 
colts much younger than we have here 
directed, and when that can be done 
with convenience, it is altogether as 
well. They do it while they fuck, and 
as foon as the tefticles come down, 
fometimes gelding them at a fortnight 
old orlefs. 

When it is done at this time, there 
feldom are any bad accidents attend it : 
but on the other hand, all the damage 
that appears is a little fwelling of the 
parts after cutting ; and this goes down 
when they have been kept carefully 
three or four days, which is what we 
have advifed to be done on account of 
their weaning. 

Korfes muit be well fed, if they are 
expected to go through a great deal of 
work; and large horfes will never be 
fo upon poor paftures. This is a fun- 
damental rule for the farmer, and he 
muft always keep it in his memory. 
It is not eafy to fay what number of 
horfes will anfwer the hufoandman's 
purpofe, for any certain quantity of 
ground. This has been attempted, 
but the differences between one kind 
of land and another, in the degree of 
labour they require, makes it impofii- 
ble to determine with certainty. Upon 
a genera.l view perhaps it may be rea- 
fonable to fay, that in land of a middle 
fort, about one horfe to every ten acres 
will anfwer the careful and fkilful huf- 
bandmans's purpofe. He that wants 
knowledge and management, may ufe 
Jwice as many, without doing half his 
bufinefs. 

When the number of horfes for the 
flocking of the farm has been fettled a* 
?ve!! as it may be, the next care is the 
Tot.. I, 



proportioning the work among them* 
and on this depends a great deal of the 
profit that is to be made by this fort 
of cattle. 

The young ones we have faid, are to 
be worked but gently. They may be 
continually kept doing fomething at 
the harvelt, feed time, and fallowing, 
but they are never to do any thing hard. 
There are fufneient articles of drudgery 
in the farmer's bufinefs, and thefe he is 
to throw upon fuch horfes as will ne- 
ver be worth any thing by fale. He is 
to keep a proper number of thefe for 
hard work, and though they be aged 
or blind they will anfwer his ends, 
provided they are well fed. The (light 
work of the others, in the mean time, 
only accuitoms them to their geers, 
and makes them bring the better pro- 
fit upon the fale. 

The hufbandman who falls into the 
method of buying up young colts, 
from the breeding counties, in order to 
fell them again at five years old, muft 
take a great deal of care in the choice 
he makes of them : for fuch as they 
are, fuch they will grow up; and the 
farmer whobieeds, muft in the fame 
manner be careful of his Aallions and 
mares, according to the rules given be- 
fore, otherwife he may be greatly dif- 
appointed, when he comes to the fair 
with them for fale. 

Tiie proper time for giving the huf- 
bandman's hoi fe green food, is in the 
beginning of May, and tiie time for 
taking him up is toward the end of 
Auguit. Let the horfes be turned out 
firft in the heat of the day, and it it is 
a wet or cold feafon, let him take them 
in at night, till it is dryer or more fa- 
vourable. 

The rood healthful practice is to 
work them as ufua), while they are at 
grafs, taking them up in the morning 
and giving them a moderate feed of 
corn and chaff two hours before they 
are collared; and repeating the fame 
after they come from work. This is 
of double ufe, as it keeps them in great 
heart, and fomewhat dries the green 
and moifl food in their bodies. 

Another very good method is to fow 
fome ground pur| ofeiy for this ufe 
with the three feeds of clover, ray- 
grafs and common trefoil together} 
and cut it frefh for their eating in the 
racks : and this keeps them frefti, 
and in good heart, under the tighteft 
3 E duty. 



H O R 



H O R 



duty. In thefe feveral methods alio, 
by the help of ftraw, there is a great 
deal of dung made for the fervice of 
the fields. 

HORSE HOEING. The advan- 
tage which the earth receives from til- 
lage are of two kinds, the deftroying 
of weeds, and the breaking and divi- 
ding the particles of the foil, in fuch a 
manner that they may afford more 
nourishment to the ufeful growths. 
Thefe advantages cannot be obtained 
by any other method fo perfectly, as 
by horfe-hoeing; and therefore, in the 
nature of the thing, horfe-hoeing huf- 
bandry is preferable to any other kind. 

The plough prepares the ground for 
a crop; but it goes no farther, for it 
cannot be ufed in the common way of 
hufbandry, after the crop is up: but 
the crop may receive greater benefit 
from the tillage of the land while it is 
growing, than it could in the prepa- 
ration. 

When the earth is well prepared for 
a crop, it is broken and rendered loofe, 
but from this time it naturally clods 
together, and grows more compact. 
Plants require more nourishment when 
they are grown to fome height, than 
when they are very young; but in this 
common practice they have lefs : be- 
caufe the foil grows worfe and worfe 
from the time of fowing. The horfe- 
hoe breaks and tills the land while the 
crop is growing; and by that means 
gives the plants a new fupply, when 
they moft want it. 

Ploughing and hoeing differ in this 
more than in the form or /hape of the 
inftruments with which they are done : 
a hoe may anfwer the ufe of a plough 
in breaking the ground before fowing, 
and a plough may be ufed, as it really 
is in this method, to tear up the weeds 
while the crop is upon the ground. It 
is in this period of performing it, that 
the work adually differs. As plough- 
ing is the preparing land for the fowing 
of a crop, hoeing is the tilling it when 
that crop is growing to maturity. 

If land be tilled ever fo well before 
hand, that will not prevent the growth 
of weeds, for although the roots of all 
that grew there before were deftroyed, 
the feeds of others are continually 
. brought by the wind, and the better 
the condition of the land is, the furer 
they will be to grow. 

To the farmer's miafortune, thofe 



Weeds which are moft troublefome and 
mifchievous, have feeds winged with 
down, fo that they fiy to great diftan- 
ces. Of thefe kinds are thirties, fow- 
thirties, coltsfoot, and many others the 
moft troublefome that can infeft a crop. 

No care in tilling the land before 
hand can defend it againft thefe ; on 
the contrary, the fitter it is for the crop, 
the fitter it is alfo for them : the more 
firmly they will take poffeffion, and 
the more quickly they will multiply, 
therefore fomething is needed after- 
wards. Thelabour of weeders is very 
expenlive, and in the common way of 
fowing they cannot avoid greatly da- 
maging the crop. When the feed is 
drilled, it is eafy to get between the 
rows, even with a large instrument ; 
and the advantage is evident, and the 
work cheaper. 

We fee the benefit that herbs receive 
from a careful tranfplanting, this arifes 
from the cutting off the eRds of their 
roots, and the placing them among 
new dug, that is, new tilled earth. 
This would be impoflible in many ca- 
fes ; for who could think of tranfplant- 
ing a crop of corn; but the fame ad- 
vantage is given it when it is planted 
in regular rows by the drill, and the 
earth is ploughed up between by the 
hoe plough; for in this cafe the ex- 
treme roots are cut off, fo that the 
plant is urged to fend out more, and 
there is new tilled earth for their re- 
ception. 

The advantages arifing from the 
hoeing a garden crop, in the common 
way, with a hand hoe, are very great ; 
and thefe are all communicated to a 
field of any ufelul growth, by the hoe 
plough properly ufed, only in a more 
perfect manner. 

Some people who follow the new 
method rob themfelves of half its bene- 
fit, by their fear of fetting about it 
with fpirit. They drill their feed in 
rows a foot and half diftant, and then 
cut up the earth lightly with a horfe- 
hoe between. This is of the nature 
of the garden hoeing, and is of great 
advantage, but let it be done properly, 
and it will be of much greater. 

If wheat be drilled in treble rows, 
with partitions between each row of 
feven inches, and there be an interval 
of five foot between every three rowe, 
and the next three; in this cafe the 
corn itfelf will prevent the growth of 
weeds 



HOR 



H O T 



weeds In the partitions, and the ground 
in the intervals may be tilled deep and 
well with the hoe plough, and the crop 
will be twice as good as in the other 
way. 

HORSE CHESNUT. See Horfe 
Chesnut. 

HORSE MINT, [Me nt aft rum.] This 
and feveral other forts of mint are found 
wild in moirt meadows, marflies, and 
on the brinks of rivers. They are 
much lefs agreeable in fmell than fpear- 
mint, and have more of a hot unplea- 
fant bitternefs. 

HORSE-RADISH, [Raphanui Ruf- 
ticanus.] This plant is fometimes 
found wild about river fides, and other 
moift places; for medicinal and culi- 
nary ufes, it is cultivated in gardens; 
it flowers in June, but rarely perfects 
its feeds in this country. Horfe -radifh 
root has a quick pungent fmell, and a 
penetrating acrid tafte ; it neverthe- 
lefs contains in certain veffels a fweet 
juice, which fomeimes exudes upon 
the furface. By drying, it lofes all its 
acrimony, becoming tint fweetilh, and 
afterwards almoft inlipid : if kept in a 
cool place, covered with fand, it retains 
its qualities for a considerable time. 
The medical effects of this root, are to 
ftimulate the folids, attenuate the jui- 
ces, and promote the fluid fecretions : 
it feems to extend its action through 
the whole habit, and affect the minu- 
ted glands. It has frequently done 
good fervice in fome kinds of fcurvies 
and other chronic diforders proceeding 
from a vifcidity of the juices, or ob- 
ftructions of the excretory ducts. Sy- 
denham recommends it likewife in 
dropfies, particularly thofe which fol- 
low intermittent fevers. Both water 
and rectified fpirit extract the virtues of 
this root by infufion, and elevate them 
in diftillation : along with the aque- 
ous fluid, an effential oil arifes, poffef- 
flng the whole tafte and pungency of 
the horfe-radifh. The college have gi- 
ven us a very elegant compound water, 
which takes its name from this root. 
The propagation of this plant is by 
roots, cuttings of which, taken from 
the top an inch or two long, or even 
any part of the root cut into fets that 
length, each having an eye or bud, will 
readily grow and become a plant. 

But although any part of the root 
will thus readily grow, the beftfets for 
planting are cuttings taken from th« 



top of the roots with the head or crown 
to them, either of the principal roots, 
or their off- fets or fide-fhoots, as alfo 
the fmall off-fets arifing immediate!/ 
from the (tools ; therefore, when in- 
tended to make a frefh plantation, it 
is proper, according as the roots are 
taken up occafionally for ufe, to re- 
ferve a quantity of the largeft off-fcts, 
and lay them in the earth till wanted ; 
then cut the tops off for planting two 
or three inches long; the tops of the 
main roots may alfo, when taken up, 
be cut off an inch or two long, and 
preferved as above for the fame pur- 
pofe ; but this latter is only practicable 
in private gardens; for, if the kitchen 
gardeners were to cut off the tops of 
their marketable roots, it would ren- 
der them unfaleable ; fo, in this cafe, 
recourfe is commonly had to the off-fets 
above defciibed. 

The feafon for planting them is any 
time in open weather from November 
till fpring, though the month of Feb- 
ruary or beginning of March is to be 
preferred, efpecially in wet or flubborn 
ground. 

HORSE VETCH, [Hippocreph.] 
Horfe-fhoe vetch. This is an annual 
plant met with in Italy and Spain, 
with yellow butterfly flowers, which 
are fucceeded by a pod in the form of 
a fickle or horfe-fhoe, about two inches 
long. It flowers in June and July, 
and the feeds ripen in September. 
There is a kind growing wild on chalky 
lands in England, which has a peren- 
nial root. 

HORSETAIL, [Cauda Equina.} 
This is common in watery places. It 
is faid to be a very flrong aflringent : 
Geoffry tells us that not only the herb 
itfelf in form of powder, but likewife 
water diftilled from it, are very effica- 
cious medicines againlt fluxes and has- 
morrhagies : they are both equally in- 
fipid, and probably of equal efficacy. 

HOSE IN HOSE. A fpecies of 
cowflip. See Cowslip. 

HOTBED. The ordinary hot-beds 
which are commonly ufed in the kit- 
chen gardens, are made with new horfe- 
dung, in the following manner : 

Firft, there is a quantity of new 
horfe-dung from the ftable (in which 
there mould be part of the litter or 
ftraw, which is commonly ufed in the 
ftable, but not in too great proportion 
to the dung,) the quantity of this mix- 
3 E a, ture 



- $1 nfi' 






HOT 



H O V 



ture mull be according to the length 
of the bed intended, which, if early in 
the year, fhould not be Iefs than one 
good load for each light; this dung 
fhould be thrown up in a heap, mixing 
therewith fome fea-coal afhes, which 
will be of fervice to continue the heat 
of the dung; it fhould remain fix or 
feven daye in this heap, then it fhould 
be turned over, and the parts well 
mixed together, and caft into a heap 
again, where it may continue five or 
fix days longer, by which time it will 
have acquired a due heat ; then in fome 
■well fheltered part of the garden, a 
trench fhould be dug out in length and 
width proportionable to the frame in- 
tended for it, if the ground is dry, 
about a foot or a foot and a half deep; 
but if wet, not above fix inches ; then 
the dung fhould be wheeled into the 
opening, and every part of it ftirred 
with a fork, to lay it exactly even and 
fmooth through every part of the bed ; 
as alfo to lay the bottom of the heap 
(which has commonly lefs litter) upon 
the furface of the bed ; this will pre- 
vent the fleam from rifing fo plenti- 
fully as it would otherwife do. To 
prevent this, and the heat from rifing 
fo violently as to burn the roots of 
whatever plants are put into the 
ground, it will be a very good way to 
fpread a layer of neats-dung all over 
the furface of the horfe-dung, which 
will prevent the mould from burning. 
If the bed is intended for cucumbers 
or melons, the earth fhould not be Ltid 
all over the bed at firft, only a hill of 
earth fhould be firft laid in the middle 
of each light, on which the plants 
fhould be planted, and the remaining 
fpace fhouhl be filled up from time to 
time, as the roots of the plants fpread. 
But if the hot-bed is intended for other 
plants, then after the bed is well pre- 
pared, it fhould be left two or three 
days for the fleam to pafs off before 
the earth is laid upon the dung. 

In the making of thefe hot-beds, it 
mud be carefully obferved to fettle the 
dung clofe with a fork; and if it be 
pretty full of long litter, it fhould be 
equally trod down clofe in every parr, 
ctherwife it will be fubjeft to heat too 
violently, and confequently the heat 
will be much fooner fpent, which is 
one of thegrenteft dangers thefe fort of 
beds are liable to. During the firft 
week or ten days after the bed is made, 



the glaffes fhould be but flightly cover* 
ed in the night, and in the day time 
they fhould be raifed to let out the 
fleam, which is fubjeft to rife very co- 
pioufly while the dung is ftefh ; but as 
the heat abates, fo the coveting fhould 
be incre.ifed. 

But although the hot-bed defcribed 
is what the kitchen-gardeners com- 
monly ufe, yet thofe made with tan- 
ner's bark are much preferable, efpeci- 
ally for all tender exotic plants or 
fruits, which require an even degree of 
warmth to be continued for feveral 
months, which is what cannot be ef- 
fected by horfe-dung only. The man- 
ner of making thefe beds is as follows : 

There mult be a trench dug in the 
earth about three feet deep, if the 
ground be dry; but if wet, it mult not 
be above fix inches deep at moft, and 
muft be raifed in proportion above 
ground, fo as to admit of the tan being 
laid three feet thick. The length muft 
be proportioned to the frames intended 
to cover it, but that fhould never be 
Iefs than eleven or twelve feet, and the 
width not lefs than fix, which is but a 
fufficient body to continue the heat. 
This trench fhould be bricked up round 
the fides to the above-mentioned height 
of thieefeet, and fhould be filled with 
frefh tanner's bark, (i. e. fuch as the 
tanners have lately drawn out of their 
vats, after they have ufed it for tan- 
ning leather,) which fhould be laid in 
a round heap for a week or ten days 
before it is put into the trench, that 
the moifture may the better drain out 
of it, which, if detained in too great 
a quantity, will prevent its fermenta- 
tion ; then put it into the trench, and 
gently beat it down equally with a 
dung fork; but it muft not be trod- 
den, which would alfo prevent its heat- 
ing, by fettling it too clofe; then you 
muft put on the frame over the bed, 
covering it with the glaffes, and in a- 
bout a fortnight it will begin to heat; 
at which time may be plunged pots of 
plants, or fee Is into it, obferving not 
to tread down the bark in doing it. 

HOUNDS-TONGUE, [Cynoglofum.'] 
The leaves of this plant are in fhape 
thought to refemble a tongue, whence 
its name; they arecloathed with awhi- 
tifh down: it grows wild in fhady 
lanes. The roots have a rank difagree- 
able fmell, and rough bitterifh tafte, 
covered with aglutinoes fweetifhnefs. 

The 



HOY 



HV L 



The virtues of this root are very doubt- 
ful : it is generally fuppofed to be nar- 
cotic, and by fome to be virulently fo; 
others declare, it has no virtue of this 
kind, and look upon it as a mere glu- 
tinous aftringent. The prefenc practice 
takes no notice of it in any intention. 
m HOUSE-BOTE. An allowance of 
timber out of the lord's woods, for 
the repairs of a houfe. 

HOUSE LEEK, [Sedum.] This is 
a low, flefhy plant, growing on old 
walls and on the tops of houfes. It 
ftands recommended as a cooler, tho' 
its fenfible qualities difcover no great 
foundation for any virtue of this kind; 
the tafte is herbaceous, with a flight 
degree of pungency. It is remarkable 
of this plant, that its juice purified by 
filtration (when it appears of a dilute 
yellowifh colour) upon the admixture 
of an equal quantity of rectified fpirit 
of wine, forms a beautiful white, light 
coagulum, like the finer kinds of po- 
matum : this proves extremely vola- 
tile ; freed from the aqueous phelm, 
and expofed to the air, it in a very lit- 
tle time totally exhales. From hence 
it is concluded (in the medicor. Sile- 
fiac. fatyrae) that hcufe-leek contains 
a volatile alcaline fait : but there are 
many fubftances befides thefe falts 
which coagulate with fpirit of wine. 

HOVEL. A fhed open on the fides, 
and covered overhead. 

HOVEN. A difeafe common to cat- 
tle, on eating too greedily of green clo- 
ver. It conhfts in the paunch of the 
creature being fwelled to a very great 
degree, which often, if not prevented, 
puts an end to the creature's life. The 
fureft method of curing this terrible 
difeafe, is that of making an incifion 
into the paunch of the beaft, and by 
that means the wind, which caufed the 
fwelling, will efcape through the ori- 
fice, and the creature recover. 

A correfpondent of the editors of 
the Mufeum Rufticum has given the 
following account of his performing 
this operation. 

" I took, fays he, a fharp-pointed 
pen-knife, and fixing my eye on the 
moft prominent part of his belly, 
thruft the blade through the integu- 
ments, quite into the abdomen: there 
iffued out a great guft of wind very 
fetid, with fome water of areddifh co- 
lour: the bullock feemed eafier, but 
far from well ; for the wound prefent- 



!y elded up, and admitted no mors 
air to efcape; fo that I was under the 
necefTity of (tabbing him twice mora 
in different parts of the belly, before 
he was thoroughly relieved, which, by 
the help of a clyfiei' after the laft flab, 
was prefently brought about : and herft 
give me leave, gentlemen, before I 
leave this fubjedt, to give a few cauti- 
ons to thofe who may be under the ne- 
ceffity, one time or other, of perform- 
ing this very ufeful operation : reflec- 
tion and experience warrant me in 
them, therefore I fhalt freely proceed. 

'♦ Firft then, if it be performed with 
a pen-knife, not to be fearful in pufh- 
ing the blade a proper length, till yoii 
find wind iffue out ; for if the wind be 
in the cavity of the belly, you cannot 
poffibly hurt thegut,the whole body of 
the wind being between you and it, 
which no reafonable bladed pen-knife 
can touch; and if the wind fhould be 
pent up in the inteftine, you muft pe- 
netrate it before the beaft can be relie- 
ved. To this laft, perhaps, it may be 
objected, that we run the hazard of 
killing the beaft by wounding the gut; 
but I am far from thinking fo, as I 
have feen many wounds of the intef- 
tine, both in man and beaft, very hap- 
pily cured : yet granting there might 
be fome danger in it, ftill we are cer- 
tain, if the poor beaft can get no re. 
lief, it muft die; and fo circumftan- 
ced, furely, gentlemen, a doubtful re- 
medy is better than none at all. 

4< Another caution is, that where 
thefe wounds are made in the belly 
with a proper pen-knife, it is not ad- 
vifeable to have them fownup; for 
where there is a continual motion or 
adtion, as there is in the mufcles of 
the belly and parts adjacent, fuch a 
practice is not only unwarrantable, 
but cruel; and why fhould we not be- 
have with humanity to the brute fpe- 
cies, as well as any other ? 

" My laft caution and advice is, 
that upon all thefe occafions, when the 
beaft is relieved of his wind, a proper 
clyfter fhould be thrown up immedi- 
ately, as hot as he can bear it : thefe 
clyfters ftrangely relieve them, by act- 
ing as a warm, comfortable bath to 
their diftempered bowels, and empty- 
ing the fame of the load of muck 
within them." 

HULLS. The chaff, or hufks of 
corn. 

HUMBLE 



H U S 



H Y A 



HUMBLE-PLANT. See Sensi- 
tive Plant. 

HURDLES. Are certain frames 
made either of fplit timber, orof hazel 
rods, wattled together, to ferve for gates 
in inclofures, or to make fheep-folds, 
&c. &c. 

HURDS, orHoRDsof flax or hemp. 
The coarfer parts feparated in the 
dreffings from the tear or fine fluff. 

HURLE-BONE. In a horfe, a bone 
near the middle of the buttock, very 
apt to go out of its fockets with a hurt 
or drain. 

HURT, Hurtle-Berries. See 

BlLLBKRRlES. 

HURT-SICKLE, Blue-bottle. 

HUSBANDRY. The bufinefs or 
employment of a farmer, or perfon 
who cultivates land, &c. 

Husbandry is divided intotvvo kinds, 
and diftingaifhed by the epithets old 
and new. The former is that which 
has been practiftd in all countries from 
the mod early times ; and the latter, 
that introduced by the ingenious Mr. 
Tull, and often called the horfe-hoeing 
hufbandry. See Horse-Hoeing. 

Experience fnews, that land, though 
ever fo well tilled in the autumn, 
when wheat, for example, is fown, 
hardens and foddens in the winter; its 
particles, beaten down by heavy rains, 
and funk by their own weight, ap- 
proach each other daiiy more and more; 
the roots of the plants cultivated have 
eonfequently lefs and lefs room to ex- 
tend themfelves in queft of their ne- 
ceffary food ; and their interfaces in 
the earth become, of courfe, fo few 
and dole, that they are not able to 
pierce through them, whilfl weeds 
fpring up, and rcb them of their nou- 
rifhment. By this means the earth, 
reduced to nearly the fame condition 
as if it had not been ploughed at all, 
is unable to affift the plants fown in it 
in the fpring, when they ought to fhoot 
tvith the greatefl vigour. They con- 
sequently then ftand rr.cfi of all in 
need of the plough to deftroy the weeds, 
to lay frefh earth to the roots in the 
room of that earth which they have 
exhaufkd, to break the pa:c;„;~o of 
the ground anew, fo as to enable their 
roots, to fpread, in order to their ga- 
thering an ample provision of food, 
which then doco them the greateft fer- 
Vice. 

in the common husbandry, the whole 



attention is to provide a great ftore ©f 
nourishment for the wheat, at a time 
when it fcarcely confumes any, as it 
then produces only a few blades, after 
which it is left to itfelf, at a feafon 
when it might, and mould be moftaf- 
fifted by proper culture ; a manage- 
ment as prepoflerous as it would be to 
give a child a great deal of food, and 
diminifh it gradually as he grows big- 
ger; or, toufeMr.Tull's comparifon, 
to give filk-worms, before they are 
hatched, treble the full flock of leaves 
neceffary to maintain them, till they 
havefiniihed their fpinning, and not 
to allow them any when they really 
want being fed. 

The great advantage of having land 
in fine tilth before it is fown, is uni- 
verfally acknowledged : but we muft 
not ftop at thofe firfl preparations.— 
Plants require a continuation of cul- 
ture while they grow, and muft not be 
forfaken till they have maintained their 
full maturity, fl#g tffl*i%o*o&n/j - 

HYACINTH, [Hyaclnthus.] Thefe 
are a low bulbous rooted perennial 
plant, comprehending forne hundreds 
of beautiful varieties, the principle 
fpecies are, i. The Oriental Hyacinth, 
with Angle and double flowers, and of 
white, red, flefh-coloured, purple and 
blue colours, z. Wood Hyacinth, or 
Harebell. 3. Nodding flowered Spa- 
nish Hyacinth. 4. Amethyftine Hya- 
cinth. 5. Mufk Hyacinch. 6. Tufted 
Hyacinth. 7. Feathered Hyacinth. 8. 
Grape Hyacinth. 9. Branching Grape 
Hyacinth. 

The fecond fpecies, or Harebell, is a 
common wild flower, growing plenti • 
fully in fields, but felclom admitted in- 
to the gardens. Each fpecies has a 
great number of varieties of different 
colours. 

All thefe fpecies, and their refpe<£live 
varieties, are hardy bulbous rooted pe- 
rennials, of great duration in root, but 
annual in leaf and ftalk ; the leaves 
arifing from the root in fpring, and a- 
midll them the flower-ltalk ; but one 
generally from each bulb, is naked, or 
without leaves, and the upper part is 
terminated by the flowers, commonly 
in a fort of fpike; in fome extended 
wide at bottom, upon their pedicles, 
diminifhing gradually to the top, in a 
pyramidal form, as ob'ains in molt of 
the varieties of the Oriental Hyacinth; 
flowering principally in April and May, 
fucceeded 



K Y A 



H Y A 



(Succeeded by plenty of ripe feeds In 
tune and July ; then the leaves and 
ftalks decay, and the roots lofe their 
fibres, and become inactive for a month 
orfixweeks; during which period isthe 
time to iift the roots, as may be necef- 
fary in fome forts annually, efpecially 
the Oriental kinds, and in others every 
two or three years, to feparate the in- 
creafed off fets from the main bulbs, 
and to tranfplant them into frefh pre- 
pared beds, &c. and being taken up at 
the above period of reft, may be kept 
out of ground till autumn, or even un- 
till fpring on particular occaflons ; 
tho'they flower ftrongeft when planted 
again the October or November fol- 
lowing. 

All the nine fpecles and refpedtive 
varieties are fo hardy, as to grow freely 
in any of the open beds or borders in 
the full ground, flower and produce 
feed annually; and mod of them in- 
creafe exceedingly by off-fets of the 
roots. 

With refpedt to their ufe in gardens, 
all the fpecies and varieties are proper 
to beemployed as furniture to adorn the 
open borders and flower-beds; the fine 
varieties of the Oriental Hyacinth are 
commonly cultivated in beds by them- 
felves : the common kinds of them, 
however, along with the other fpecies, 
may alfo be planted in affemblagewith 
other hardy bulbous fpring flowers, in 
the common borders ; difpofing all of 
them towards the front in patches, 
three or four roots together in each 
patch, placing them three or four in- 
ches deep; in which mode of difpofl- 
tion they will effect a confpicuous va- 
riety in April and May. 

But the Oriental Hyacinth, the 
chief of the Hyacinth tribe for beauty, 
elegance, and variety, is by florifts 
commonly depefited in beds by them- 
fclves, both for the conveniency of 
viewing them more commodioufly, 
and to have occafional fhekerfrom the 
rigours of winter, and during the time 
of theirbloom; for alt'io' they are hardy 
enough to fticceed without any protec- 
tion, yet they being rather pf a delicate 
temperature, by allowing them fhelter 
on particular occafions, they are made 
to blow much larger and fairer, and 
the bloom continued longer in beauty; 
and as the fine varieties poflefs a degree 
of pre-eminence, and are often pur- 
•sfoafed at a great price, it is certainly 



moft neceffary to allow them all poflV 
ble affiftance to blow them in perfec- 
tion. 

They are fold in great variety by all 
the feed dealers. The prices are from 
three-pence per root, i:p to five or ten 
pounds, ormore; and fome varieties are 
in fuch high eiteem among florifts, 
that twenty or thirty pounds is fome- 
times given for a (ingle bulb. 

The Dutch forts are in moft efieemj 
that is, thofe that are imported annu- 
ally from Holland, for thofe people ex- 
cel all Europe in railing the greateft 
variety from feed, and alfo in blowing 
them in the greateft perfection ; ow- 
ing either to fome fecret in their mode 
of culture, or that the nature of their 
foil is peculiarly adapted to the growth 
of the bulbs; but let that be as it 
may, great calamities are annually im- 
ported from that country by the deal- 
ers, and fold by moft of the eminent 
feedfmen, who have catalogues of the 
names of the varieties, and theirprices 
annexed, which are various according 
to their forts. 

As many perfons may not have incli- 
nation for cultivating the high-rated 
varieties, there are many of the infe- 
rior forts that produce very pretty 
flowers, which may be had at moderate 
prices, and may be cultivated either 
in beds, or in the open borders, in 
common with other hardy buibous- 
rooted flowers without any protection, 
and will blow freely, though probably 
not fo lr.rge and elegant as thofe fine 
varieties indulged with the nice ma- 
nagement of a profeffcd fiorifl, as 
hereafter mentioned ; yet will exhibit 
a very beautiful bloom, and make fome 
of the prettieft ornaments in the flower 
borders. 

Having once obtained fome roots 
of any of the varieties, you may in- 
creafe your flock annually by off-fets, 
which they, however, do not yeild I'o 
freely as fome other bulbs, fo muft 
make the moft of every one that of- 
fers ; and they all furnifh plenty of 
feed every year, by which new varieties 
may be raifed.for all the new forts 
are always firft obtained by that mode 
of propagation ; and each refpeclive 
variety fo obtained, is afterwards in- 
creafed by off- fets of the root. The 
raifing them, hov.-sver, from feed, is 
tedious in practice, for the feedling 
bulbs are hardly brought to flower in 

lefs 



H Y A 



ft Y A 



left than four or five yeara ; but as by 
this means theftock may be greatly in- 
creafed, and many new good flower* 
acquired, it rewards for the toil, in 
enjoying the pleafure of feeing flowers 
of one's own raifing, and the flock 
greatly multiplied either forlpleafure 
or profit. 

The principal properties that con- 
ftitute a good Hyacinth of the Orien- 
tal kind, is, the fiem perfectly upright, 
of moderate length, and fo flrong and 
well proportioned, as to fuftain the 
weight of the florets without bending. 
The florets fhould be large, fwelling 
below, expanded above, and nume- 
rous, ten or fifteen at leaft, but are of- 
ten twenty or thirty in number, and 
fhould be placed equally round the 
ftem, the pedicles on which they grow, 
longer below than above, diminilhing 
gradually in length upward, fo as to 
reprefent a pyramid, each pedicle fo 
robuft as tofupport the florets without 
drooping. . 

The propagation of all the varieties 
is by off-fet from the root, like other 
buibous-roottd perennials; and by 
feed, to obt-in new varieties, both of 
which methods of propagation as 
hereafter directed. We will firft ex- 
hibit their general culture. 

With refpedt to the culture of this 
celebrated fpecies of Hyacinth and va- 
rieties ; let it be remarked, tiiat they 
fucceed beft in a light foil, and will 
profperin any common earth of a gar- 
den of that temperature, but delight 
more particularly in fandy ground ; al- 
low them, however, as light a foil as 
your garden poffibly affords, in a dry, 
open, funny, fituation, diftant from 
the drip of trees ; for thefe bulbs, if 
planted in ftrong, or very moift land, 
are apt to rot in winter, or become 
difeafed 5 if, therefore, the foil of your 
flower-borders or beds are of a ftrong 
heavy quality, that part defigned prin- 
cipally for Hyacinths, may be meliora- 
ted by adding light materials, fuch as any 
light fandy earth, from the furface of 
Come field, common, or other place, 
(not out of deep pits) or drift or fea- 
fand, or any upper fandy foil, or light 
earthy comport ; and fhould the foil 
of the borders, &c. be of a very light, 
fharp, fandy nature, a portion of light, 
pliable, loamy earth, and neat's dun?, 
or well-rotted dung of old hot-beds, 
yvill make a fine compcft for the Hya- 



cintn, being previoufly added long 
enough for the dung to be converted 
into mould. After all, if the common 
earth of the borders is of a moderately 
light pliable nature, as above obferved, 
and has occafionally been manured 
with rotten dung, it will fuit the 
common forts very well without any 
other preparation than good digging, 
&c. obferving, in either cafe, to work 
the ground well one fpadedeep at leaft, 
if the depth of foil admits, raifing 
the bed or border a little above the ge- 
neral level to avoid copious moifture, 
and rake the furface fmooth. 

But the florifts generally prepare a 
favourite compoft for their rare kinds 
of Hyacinths, which is principally 
thi„: light fandy loam, or any fandy 
earth from a paftured field or com- 
mon, the top fpit not more than ten 
or twelve inches deep, of which about 
one third to one of drift or fea-fand, 
from the furface, and the fame quan- 
tity of rotten neat's dung ; mixing and 
carting the whole in a heap ridge ways, 
in fome dry funny expofure, to lie a 
year at leaft, or if two the better. 
But to the above materials, fome add 
alfo a quantity of rotten leaves of 
trees, thoroughly rotten, tanner's bark, 
or any perfectly rotten earthy wood, 
or rotten faw-duft ; all of which to- 
gether greatly improve the compofi- 
tion : though as thefe are not always 
readily obtained, the other compoft is 
frequently ufed with great fuccefs. 
With either of thefe comports, a bed 
is prepared in September, or early in 
Odlober, four feet wide, and two deep, 
fo that a cavity muft be digged that 
width and depth, and filled up entirely 
with the compofition, fix inches above 
the common level to allow for fettling, 
leaving it a fortnight or a month to 
fettle, and is then ready for the recep- 
tion of the Hyacinths. 

The virtuofi in thefe plants are care- 
ful never to plant the fine forts two 
years together in the fame bed or earth, 
for by 'planting them every year in a 
frefh bed, or fiefh-prepared compoft, 
it greatly improves the fizeand beauty 
of the flowers. 

The proper feafon for planting them 
is either in October, or firft fortnight 
in November, and thofe then planted, 
fhoot early in fpring, and flower ftrong 
at their ufual feafon, April and Mayj 
but thofe planted later in autumn, or 

are 



H Y A 



H Y A 



are continued out of ground till Janu- 
ary or February, for a late bloom, will 
flower weaker and with inferior beau- 
ty ; fo that the principal part fhould al- 
ways be planted at the time firfl-men- 
tioned. 

If it is defigned to plant any of the 
common, or mere ordinary kinds, to 
adorn the open borders contiguous to 
principal walks, or lawns near the ha- 
bitation, to increafe the variety in 
afTemblage with other bulbous rooted 
fpring -flowers, as early tulips, narcif- 
fufes, anemonies,ranunculas, &c. they 
fhould be difpofed towards the front, 
at about fifteen inches from the edge, 
in patches of three roots in each, pla- 
ced four inches deep ; and the patches 
may be from about one yard to three 
or four di fiance : here let them fiand 
to take their chance, without any fur- 
ther care, and they will flower in their 
ufual feafon ; and in this mode of dif- 
pofition will ftrike the eye mod agree- 
ably among the other flowers then in 
bloom. 

But the fine doubles and other valu- 
able varieties are commonly depofited 
in beds by themfelves,as before obferv'd, 
for the convenience of affording them 
occafional protection from inclement 
weather, thefe beds fhould be four feet 
wide, and well wrought to the depth 
before mentioned ; and if there is any 
danger of water (landing, or much 
moilture in winter, raife them five or 
fix inches above the general level ; but 
if dry ground two or three inches is 
fufficient, finifhing them gradually 
rounding in the middle, allowing two- 
feet-wide alleys between bed and bed. 
In each bed you may plant four or five 
rows, lengthways, about nine inches 
diftant in each row, and four or five 
inches deep : as to the mode of plant- 
ing it may either be in drills drawn tLie 
above depth, or by dibble, or by bed- 
ding them in, i. e. with the fpade or 
rake, trimming the earth evenly from 
off the top of the bed, five inches deep, 
into the alleys ; then draw lines along 
the furface the above diftance, place 
the roots upon the lines, bottom down- 
wards, nine inches afunder ; which 
being done, cover the roots over with 
the earth, which was drawn off the bed 
for that purpofe, as evenly as poffible, 
to the proper depth ; and as foon as 
they are planted, in either method, let 

Vol. I, 



the furface of the red be raked fmooth, 
and the work is done. 

The buib being planted, the next 
care is to protect the choiceft forts in 
the beds occafionally, during winter, 
from fevere froft, to enfure the greater 
fuccefs 5 for although the bulb itfelf is 
hardy enough, yet very intenfe froft is 
fometimes apt to afle£i the young new- 
fhot fibres of the root, alto the fummit 
of the young advancing flower- bud, 
and occafion it to blow weaker than 
it otherwife would ; therefore when 
fevere froft fets in, it is eafy to guard 
thofein beds ; but thofe difpofed about 
the borders in patches, are not fo ea- 
fjjy flickered : but, indeed, they will 
all blow tolerably well without that 
precaution. Thofe in beds, however, 
may be readily protected by a covering 
of ftraw, or any kind of dry ftrawy 
litter, three or four inches thick, or 
may previoufly arch the beds with 
hoops or rods, or with moveable arch- 
ed frames of open work, and covered 
with mats ; obferving in either mode 
of covering, to praftife it only in fe- 
vere frofts, for there will be but little 
danger of moderate frofts penetrating 
deep enough to do any hurt; nor ever 
permit the covering to remain a day 
longer than the feverity of the froft 
continues, the free air being an impor- 
tant article for the welfare of the 
plants. 

Towards fpring, when the flower- 
buds are beginning to appear above- 
ground, the beds of the fine forts, if 
intended to allow them all poffible pro- 
tection from inclement weather, fhould, 
if not done in winter, be arched over, 
to be covered every night with mats, 
particularly at the appearance of fharp 
frofts, or when there is cold cutting 
winds, being careful to take them off 
every morning in mild weather. 

In March the flower-Hems will ad- 
vance very fa(t in llature : according 
as thofe of the befl forts arrive nearly 
at their full height, it is pfoper to fup- 
port them, by placing a fmall flick, 
fifteen or eighteen inches long, down 
to each plant, being careful not to 
thruft it into the bulb, and fo tye the 
Items neatly to each flick, whereby the 
fpikes of flowers, which being heavy, 
would ctherwife be borne down by 
wind or wet, will be preferved in an 
upright pofition. 

3 F When 



h y a 



H Y A 



When they arrive to bloom, the curi- 
ous forts that are in beds may be pre- 
ferved much longer in beauty, by be- 
ing fcreened occafionally from the fun 
and rain, by a fort of awning or um- 
brella of mats or canvafs ; obferving 
they (hould be (haded only from the 
mid-day fun from about ten to three 
or four o'clock, and only from excef- 
five rains and boifterous winds, for 
they mould enjoy the morning and 
evening fun, and the benefit of mode- 
rate mowers ; thefe covers are fome- 
times contrived like a tent, of width 
and height enough for company to 
walk under them to view the flowers, 
and that the plants may enjoy the be- 
nefit of free air; having the fides to 
let down and up at pleafure, like cur- 
tains ; as alfo the top to draw off oc- 
cafionally to admit moderate warm 
fhowers ; thus may thefe flowers be 
continued in their fullefl beauty three 
or four week*, and exhibit a fairer 
bloom than thofe that arefully expofed. 
After the flowers, however, begin 
naturally to fade, remove all covering 
entirely away, that the bulbs and in- 
creafing off-fets may receive all poffible 
benefit from the free air. 

After the feafon of flowering is over, 
the next care is to take up the bulbs, 
in the florift's language called, lifting 
the roots ; for the fine forts mould be 
taken up at this period, both to fepa- 
rate any off-fets for encreafe, and for 
the benefit of the main bulbs, which 
will always flower ftronger than fuch 
as are fuffered to remain two or more 
years unremoved ; fo always take up 
the large blowing-roots annually after 
flowering. 

The proper time for this work of 
lifting the bulbs, is in fummer, foon 
after they have done flowering, when 
their leaves begin to turn yellow, as 
then the bulbs" have had nearly their 
full growth forthat feafon ; and (hould 
by no means remain longer in the 
ground, as they would be apt to im- 
bibe moifture, and become fpongey, 
and have tendency to rot after removal. 
Dry weather mull be chofen, and a 
trowel or fmall fpade is proper for 
lifting them, taking them up one and 
one; and break off the flem with an 
inch or two of its origin, which being 
thick and very fucculent, the moifture 
thereof might return again into the 
bulb, to its detriment j then lay them 



in an airy room, out of the mid-day 
fun, to dry off" the grofs moift ure gra- 
dually, and to ripen the bulbs to a due 
hardnefs, appearing of a purplifh tinge, 
other wife they are apt to rot, being 
more impatient of humidity than al- 
moft any other kinds of hardy bulbs : 
but the florilts generally ripen thechoi- 
cer kinds of thefe bulbs, after lifting, 
in a ridgeof dry earth in the full air, to 
promote a more perfefl ripenefsin the 
whole bulb, as the grofs humidity will 
be more effectually drawn off by th« 
heat of the fun, without being expofed 
immediately thereto ; to do this, part 
of the earth of the bed where they 
grow, is dire&ly formed into a low 
ridge lengthways, roundifh at top, and 
both fides Hoping to caff off the wa- 
ter ; in this ridge place the bulbs, as 
foon as poffible, bottom downward 
befide each other, and cover them with 
earth an inch or two deep ; being thus 
placed, let them remain about three 
weeks, during which time, if heavy 
rains fall, cover the ridge with mats, 
to keep the earth and roots as dry at 
poffible ; and thus the fun's heat thro* 
the earth, will evaporate the watery 
parts of the bulb, and harden it fo ef- 
fectually, that no danger of rotting is 
much to be feared, neither before nor 
after they are planted again ; obfer- 
ving, that when the bulbs, by either of 
the above modes of ripening them, af- 
fume a bright purple colour, it is no- 
tice of maturenefs, this colour being 
peculiar to thefe bulbs, but the more 
ffrong and lively the purple tinge ap- 
pears, denotes the greateft perfection. 
When the bulbs are, however, pro- 
perly ripened in either of the above 
methods, let them betaken up and Se- 
parated from any off-fets, well cleared 
from earth, loofe fkins, and fibres at 
bottom; then, after expofing them an 
hour or two in the fun, put them up 
in boxes fingly, or upon dry (helves 
out of the fun, to remain till the fea- 
fon for planting them again, obferving 
the fame method as before directed. 

Propagation by Off-fets. — All off- 
fets appearing about the main bulbs at 
the lifting feafon, are to be carefully 
feparated.from them, either as foon as 
they are taken up, or after the bulbs 
have lain to ripen, kept feparate, and 
planted in September or October, in 
beds by themfelves, in rows fix inches 
afunder, and two or three deep, where; 

let 



H Y A 



H Y R 



fat them remain a year or two ; then 
take them up at the proper lifting fcafon 
in fummer, and manage as directed 
the large blowing roots. 

Raifing them from Seed. The 

raifing thefe bulbs from feed, is prac- 
tifed by the curious to obtain new va- 
rieties, as well as increafe their flock ; 
obferving, that from the time of fow- 
ing, it will be four or five years be- 
fore the bulbs will produce flowers ; 
the feed ripens in June or July, which 
may eafily be faved from your own 
plants, fufferingfome of the fineft (in- 
gles, and half doubles to ftand to ri- 
pen in perfection. 

The proper feafon for fowing it is 
September and October; and it will 
come up in fpring following. 

It grows freely in open ground, in a 
bed or border of light earth, or if no 
great quantity is to be fown, it may 
be fowed in pots or boxes, which will 
be convenient to move occafionally to 
different fituations at different feafons. 
In either method chufe light rich earth, 
make the furface fmooth, fow the feeds 
evenly, and cover them an inch or an 
inch and a half deep ; if they are fowed 
in pots or boxes, let thofe be plunged 
to the rims in a dry place, and in No- 
vember remove them either under a 
hot-bed frame to have occafional fhel- 
ter in winter, or cover them at the ap- 
proach of hard froft with fome light 
dry litter, ufing the fame precaution 
alfo to thofe fowed in beds, but let 
them be fully expofed in all mild wea- 
ther. 

The plants will come up in the 
fpring, appearing firft with very fmall 
leaves ; keep them very clean from 
weeds allthe fummer, fift a little earth 
over the bed in autumn, and in winter 
ufe the fame precaution as before ; 
and in the fecond fummer, in June, 
when their leaves begin to decay, take 
up the young bulbs, to be planted out 
in nurfery-beds, which may be done 
in Auguft or September, planting them 
in fmall drills two inches deep, having 
the drills three or four inches afun - 
der: here let them ftand two years, 
fifting half an inch of earth over the 
furface in autumn, and give occafional 
«overing in winter j after this they are 



to be taken up at the ufual lifting-fea- 
fon, managed as the other bulbs, and 
planted in autumn where you defiga 
they fhall flower. 

The other eight fpecies and varieties 
of Hyacinths, though inferior to the 
oriental kind, yet cor.fideredas flowery 
perennials for embellifhing the com- 
mon borders, &c. effect an agreea- 
ble variety, when difpofed in little 
clufters, in affemblage with other low 
fpring-flowers : planting them in au- 
tumn, any time before Chriftmas, to- 
wards the front, three, four, or five 
roots in a patch, about three inches 
deep, and they will all flower in fpring 
following. They may be fuffered to 
remain unremoved two or three years, 
when they will beincreafed byoff-fets 
into large bunches, and fhould then 
be taken up at the decay of the flow- 
ers and leaves in fummer, to feparate 
the off-fets, planting the large roots a- 
gain in the borders, as before, in au- 
tumn j and the very beft of the off-fets 
that you may have occafion for, may 
be planted in nurfery-beds for a year 
or two. 

Their propagation is effected plen- 
tifully by the off-fets, as above-menti- 
oned, which all the forts produce in 
great plenty, and which may be taken 
up every fecond or third year, when 
the leaves decay, and the off- fets fepa- 
rated and managed as above directed. 

Hyacinth of Peru. See Sqjjill. 

HYPOCISTIS. A flefhy produc- 
tion, growing in the warmer climates 
from the roots of different kinds of 
ciiti; its infpiffated juice. This juice 
is an aftrigent, limilar to acacia, but 
fomewhat ftronger. At prefent, it is 
fcarce otherwife made ufe of than as 
an ingredient in fome of the old com- 
pofitions. 

HYSSOP, iHvfopus.'} This plant is 
eafily propagated by flips or feeds. 
The leaves have an aromatic fmell, and 
a warm pungent tafte, Befides the 
general virtues of aromatics, they ar« 
particularly recommended in humoral 
afthmas, coughs, and other diforders 
of the breaft and lungs ; and faid to 
notably promote expectoration. 

Hedge Hyssop, SeeHzncf. Hyssopi 



3 Fz 



JACK- 



I. 



J A 

JACK-BY-THE-HEDGE;[.4/<Ww.] 
Sauce alone. This is frequent in 
hedgesand fhady wafteplaces, flow- 
ering in May and June. The leaves 
have a bitter acrid tafte, and, when 
rubbed betwixt the fingers, a ftrong 
fmell, approaching to that of garlick. 
They areefteemed aperient and diure- 
tic. Boerhaave directs the ufe of this 
plant in difeafeswhereacidities abound, 
in cold fcurvies where there is no ten- 



J A R 

Winter Boncretien, Colmar, Double- 
Flower, Epine de Hyver, Martin Sec, 
Royal de Hyver, Citron de Hyver, Am - 
brette, Mervaile de Hyver, with many 
others of lefs note : And for baking, 
the Cardillac, black pear of Worcester, 
Englifh Warden, and Pickering. 

Apples : Golden Pippen, Nonpareil, 
French Pippen, Golden Ruffet, Wheel- 
er's RulTet, Kentifh Pippen, Holland 
Pippen, Aromatick Pippen, Harvey 



dency to putrefaction, and in pleurifies Apple, Winter Pearmain, Monftrous 



where there is danger of a gangrene. 
Externally, it is recommended by Hil- 
danus in mortifications; byChomel,in 
cancerous ulcers j and by Boerhaave, 
in both : The latter reports, that in 
thefe cafes he has frequently experien- 
ced its good effects. Hildanus ufed to 
gather the herb for thefe purpofes in 
the fpring, and expofe it for a day to 
the action of a dry air in a fhady place: 
Being then committed to the prefs, it 
yielded a juice pofieffing the fmell and 
tafte of the alliaria : this, he informs 
us, with a little oil on the furface, 
keeps in perfection for years. 

JACOBS-LADDER. See Greek 
Valerian. 

JALAP. See Bindweed. 
Bajiard Jalap. Marvel of Peru. 
JAMESWORT. See Ragwort. 
JAMMOCK. Oaten bread made 
Into larges loaves. 

JANUARY. The firfl month of 
year, containing 31 days. 

ProduEl of the Kitchen Garden. 
You have now cabbages, favoys, 
broccoli, parfnips, turnips, carrots, po- 



Rennet, Pear Ruffet, Aromatick Ruf- 
fet, with many others. A lib nuts, al- 
monds, fervices, fome medlars, &c. 

Plants now in Fl>/wcr in the open air. 
Winter aconite, helleborafter, true 
black helebore, fome fingle anemonies, 
early winter hyacinth, polyanthus's, 
primrofe, fnow-drops ; and, in a warm 
fituation, the round-leaved fpring cy- 
clamen, Duke Van Tol Tulip, &c. 
Trees and Shrubs now in Flower, 
Laurus-tinus, Glaftonbury - thorn, 
mezerion, clematitis Bocetica, ftraw- 
berry-tree, cornelian cherry, &c. 
Plants in Flower in the Green- Houfe 

and Stove, 
The fmall and large pearl, cufhion, 
hedge-hog, tongue, fuccotrine, and 
fome other forts of aloes ; double naf- 
turtium, alaternoides erica? folio, Per- 
fian cyclamens ; feveral forts of ficoi- 
des ; fome geraniums, chryfanthe- 
mums, Senecio Africanus folio retufo, 
African gladiolus, hsemanthus, with 
fome others. 

JARDON. A name given by far- 



tatoes, leeks, cellery, endive, onions, riers to a fwelling on the out-fide of 

garlick, fhalots, beets, fkirrets, bore- the back of a horfe. 
cole, and fpinage: and in hot-beds, It generally proceeds from blows 

afparagus, which was planted in No- and kicks of other horfes ; but fre- 

vember; as alfo divers fsrts of fallet- quently happens to managed horfes, 

herbs, -as lettuce, creffes, turnip, rape, by fetting them on their haunches; it 

radifh, muftard, mint, &c. &c. is feldom attended with much lame- 

Fruits in prime, and now lafting. nefs, unlefs is has been neglected, or 

Pears : St. Germain, Virgoulee, fome little procefs of the bone broken. 



J A S 



j A U 



Jt fhould be firft treated with coolers 
and repellents, fuch as hot vinegar, 
verjuices, &c. but if" any fwelling con- 
tinues hard and infenfible, the heft way 
is to blifter or fire; but mild bliflers 
alone generally fucceed. 

JASMINE," [Jafmnurn], The fpe- 
cies are, i. The Common White, z. 
The Italian Yellow. 3. Common 
Yellow. 4. Catalonian. 5. Yellow 
Indian. 6. Azorian, or Ivy-leaved. 
7. Cape Jafmine. 

The fir ft fort is eafily propagated by 
laying down the branches which will 
take root in one year, and by cuttings 
planted in autumn. The fecond fort, 
which may be propagated in the fame 
manner, is a mere tender plant. The 
third fort is eafily propagated^by fuc- 
kers or layers. The fourth may be 
propagattd by budding, or inarching, 
or the firft. Thefe require theaffiftance 
of the green-houfc, as myrtles and o- 
ranges. The fifth and fixth require 
only to befheltered from fevere frofts. 
The feventh is eafiiy propagated by 
cuttings, which if taken from the 
young branches, and planted in pots 
filled with a loamy foil, and plunged 
into a moderate hot- bed, covering 
them clofe down with hand-glaffes, 
will foon put cut roots -. then they 
may be tranfplanted each into a fepa- 
ratefmall pot, filled with the like loa- 
my earth, and plunged again into the 
hot-bed to forward their putting out 
new roots. When thefe young plants 
have obtained ftrength, they may be 
treated hardily; for fome plants have 
been kept under a common frame, 
■where the pots have been plunged into 
an old bed of tanner's bark which had 
no heat, others have been kept through 
the winter in a glafs-cafe without any 
artificial heat, both which hsve fuc- 
ceeded, and the plants have flowered 
very well, and they have been more 
vigorous than thofe which were treat- 
ed tenderly. This flower, when fully 
blown, is as largeas a middling damafk 
rofe, having a very agreeable odour ; 
on the firft approach it is fomething 
like that of the orange- flower, but 
when mere clofely fmelt to, has the o- 
dour of the common double white 
narciffus. The feafon of this plant 
flowering in England, is in July and 
Auguft, but in its native country it is 
fuppofed to flower great part of the 
year; for Captain Hntchinfon, who 



brought the plant over from the cape 
of Good Hope, faid there was a fue- 
ceflion of flowers on it till the fhip ar- 
rived in a cold climate, which put a 
flop to its growth. 

Afr'uan Jatmike, [La'-ttana Afri- 
cans.] This is a flowerig evergreen 
brought from ihe Cape of Good Hope, 
bearing flowers moll part of the year, 
and is eafily propagated by cuttings. 

Scarlet Jasmine, [Bignonia.] Trum- 
pet flower. There are feveral fpecies 
of this plant, fome of which bear the 
open air, others require a green-houfe, 
and fome a ftove. They are all propa- 
gated by cuttings and layers. 

Red Jasmine, [P lumeria .] This i-s 
a tender exotic plant, of which there 
are four or five fpecies, all propagated 
by feeds. 

Perfian Jasmine, [Syringa Ttrfue.] 
This fhrub rifes to the height of fix or 
eight feet, bearing flowers of a pale 
purple colour, in large panicles, about 
the latter end of May. There is a vari- 
ety with white flowers, it is propa- 
gated by fuckers. 

JAUNDICE. A diftemper incident 
to horfes, and generally called by far- 
riers, the yellows. 

Horfes are frequently fuhjecl to this 
diftemper, which is known by a dufky. 
yellownefs of the eyes; the infide of 
the mouth and lips, the tongue and 
bars of the roof of the mouth looking 
alfo yellow. The creature is dull, and 
refutes all manner of food : the fever 
is flow, yet both that and the yellow- 
nefs increafe together. The dung is 
often hard and dry, of a pale yellow, 
or light pale green. His urine is com- 
monly of a dark dirty brown colour ; 
and, when it has fettled feme time on 
the pavement, it louks red like blood. 
He ftales with fome pain and difficul- 
ty, and if the ditiemper is net check- 
ed, foon grows delirious and frantic. 
The off-fide of the belly is fometimes 
hard andriiftended; and in old horfes, 
when the liver has been long difeafed, 
the cure is fcarce practicable, and the 
difeafeends fatally with a waiting di- 
arrha?a : but when the di (temper is re- 
cent, and in young horfcj, there is no . 
fear of a recovery, if the following di- 
rections are obferved. 

Firft of all, bleed plentifully; and 

give a laxative clyfter, as horfes 

are apt to be very coftive in this 

diftemper 



J A U 



J E S 



diftemper ; and the next day give ufeful bcaft is liable to, and peculiarly 



him this purge. 

Take of Indian rhubarb, powdered, 
one ounce and a half ; faffron two 
drams, fuccotrine aloes fix drams, 
fyrup of buckthorn a fufficient 
quantity. 

If the rhubarb fhould be found too 



demands care, as it often brings on 
murrain, lafk or fcowering, dropfy, 
Sec. butisfoon difcovered by the gall's 
running all over the cellular mem- 
brane, and tinging the eyes, and is the 
fame difeafe as the jaundice in man; 
the beaft becomes fluggifh, and the 
cow lofes her milk and loaths her food, 



expenfive, omit it, and add the fame and me becomes weak and totters ; n 
quantity of cream of tartar and half her gait . and the hair ftarts 



an ounce Caftile foap, with four drams 
more of aloes. This may be repeated 
two or three times, giving intermedi- 
ately the following balls and drink. 
Take of /Ethicp's mineral half an 
ounce} millepedes the fame quan- 
tity ; Caftile foap one ounce 5 
make into a ball, and give on« 
every day, and warn it down with 
a pint of this decoction. 
Take madder root and turmerick, 
of each four ounces 5 burdock 
root fliced, half a pound ; Monk's 
rhubarb four ounces ; liquorice 
fliced two ounces : boil in a gal- 
lon of forge water to three quarts; 
ftrain off, and fweeten with ho- 
ney. 
Ealls of Caftile foap and turmerick 
may be given alfo for this purpofe, to 
the quantity of three or four ounces a 
day, and will in moft recent cafes fuc- 
ceed 



The remedies depend on the ftate of 
the dung. If the beaft does not fcower, 
but has dunged orderly, 

Take a handful of celandine, boil 
it in a quart of water to a pint ; 
to the ftrained liquor add one 
ounce of turmeric, and half an 
ounce of coriander feeds in pow- 
der, for a drink every morning; 

Or, Take liquorice root, annifeeds, 
and turmeric root, each in pow- 
der, one ounce, for a dofe every 
morning in warm ale. 

If the beaft fhould fcower at the 
fame time, add a handful of mugwort, 
or wormwood, one ounce of tormen- 
til root, and boil a few minutes n a 
pint of water; add one ounce ofiar- 
menian bole, and half an ounce of 
mithridate, for a dofe ; giving a re- 
ftrigent clyfter every night. 

If the beaft fhould be very weak, and 
neglect her food, (which fhould be 



By thefe means the diftemper gene- * d ha } , £t ^ flices of bread 
rally abates in a week, which may be foaked , n a , e bg f entl ; ven . this 
difcovered by an alteration in the horfe s 
eyes and mouth ; but the medicines 
mult be continued till the yellownefs 



willfupport amazingly, and be of the 
moft infinite fervice in a fcowering ; 
with the yellows, green meat fhould be 
particularly avoided, and bran with a 
handful of rice in it be fet before her 
for food. 

ICEPLANT. A fpecies of ficoides. 
JERUSALEM ARTICHOKE. Set 
Artichoke. 

Jerusalem Sage, \Fulmonar\a. 
Maculofa.'] Spotted Lungwort. This 
live millepedes and filings of fteel i s met with in gardens, the leaves are 
of each fourounces. CaftileorVe- f a green colour fpotted with white; 
nice foap half a pound: make into of an herbaceous glutinous tafte,with- 
balls of the fize of pullet's eggs, out any fmell. They ftand recom- 
and give one night and morning, mended againft ulcers of the lungs, 

phthifes, and other like diforders : ne- 
vertheless experience gives little coun» 
tenance to thefe virtues, nor does th« 
prefent practice expect them. 

Jerusalem Cowslip. Lungwort. 
JESUITS- BARK. See Peruvian 



is entirely removed. Should the dif- 
temper prove obftinate, and not fubmit 
to this treatment, you muft try more 
potent remedies, viz. mercurial phyfic, 
repeated two or three times «t proper 
intervals; and then the following balls: 
Take fait of tartar two ounces, cin- 
nabar of antimony four ounces, 



with a pint of the above drink 
It will be proper, on his recovery, 
to give him two or three mild purges, 
and, if a full fat horfe, to put in a 
rowel. 

The jaundice or yellows in cows is 



the moft frequent diforder that this Bark. 



JEW3- 



IND 



I N D 



JEWS-EAR. See Jews Ear. 

JEWS-MALLOW,[Cw<:^^j.] This 
plant is faid to be fown by the Jews 
about Aleppo, as a pot-herb. There 
are feveral fpecies, but too tender to 
bear the open air in England. They 
are propagated by feeds. 

IMMORTAL EAGLE FLOWER. 
See Balsamine. 

INARCHING. Grafting by ap- 
proach. 

INCLOSURE. The feparation of 
common grounds into diftindt poffef- 
fions. 

Inclofures afcertain to every man his 
jufl and due property, and thereby pre- 
vent an infinity of trefpaffes, injuries, 
and other fources of ruinous litigation. 
They keep the land warm, and add to 
its fertility, by fcreening it from vio- 
lent and nipping winds, which other- 
wife frequently deftroy whole crops j 
and they alfo defend it from thofe dry- 
ing and fcorching winds, which fo of- 
ten blaft at once the hufbandman's, 
till then well-grounded, expectation. 
They afford fhade in the fummer, and 
fhelter in the winter, for cattle, which 
would otherwife deftroy more with 
their feet than they eat witli their 
mouths, and which, for want of thefe, 
might, as Mr. Worlidge obferves, lofe 
more of their fat or fiefh in one fultry 
Jay, than they gain in three cold ones. 
Their cuttings afford fuel to the induf- 
trious hufbandman, and, if carefully 
planted and preferved, they will here 
and there furnifh him with timberfor 
his carts, ploughs, and other utenfils, 
befides fometimes ufeful fruits. They 
are an excellent encouragement to good 
hufbandry, and a great remedy againft 
beggary, by employing many poor peo- 
ple in the labour which either the ma- 
king, or the mending of them con- 
ftantly requires, and which is amply 
repaid by the increafe of crops. 

INCUBATION. Sitting on eggs 
to hatch them. 

INDIAN ARROWROOT. See 
Arrowroot. 

Indian Cress. See Indian C r e s s . 

Indian Corn. See Guinea 
Wheat. 

Indian Fig. See Indian Fig. 

Indian Leaf, [Malabathrum,] 
This leaf is of a green colour, firm 
texture, very fmooth on one fide, lefs 
fo on the other, on which run three 
remarkable ribs through its whole 



length. Lemery and Pomet affirm, 
that thefe leaves have no perceptible 
fmell or tafte; Herman and others, 
that they have a very great fhare of 
both : thofe met with in our fhops 
have little or no fmell till they are 
well rubbed, when they emit an agree- 
able fpicy odour : en chewing they are 
found to have a faint tafte, fomewhat 
of the clove kind. This drug is of no 
farther ufe in medicine, than as an in- 
gredient in the mithridate and theria- 
ca ; and is, when in its greateft per- 
fection, much inferior to the mace, 
which our college direct as a fucceda- 
neum to it. 

INDIGO. This forms a moft ef- 
fential branch of trade in Carolina, is 
a plant not unlike our fern when 
grown, and is fcarceiy diftinguifhable 
from lucerne grafs when young, its 
leaves are pennated, the flowers con- 
fift of five leaves, and are of a papili- 
onaceous kiud, the uppermoft petal 
being larger and rounder than the reft, 
and lightly furrowed on the fide ; in 
the middle of the flower is produced 
the ftile, which afterwards becomes a 
feed-pod. They cultivate three forts 
of indigo on different foils, firft ths 
French or Hifpaniola indigo, which 
has a long tap-root, requires a deep 
rich foil, and is principally cultivated 
in the internal parts of the country, 
which lie moft foutherly, being the 
leaft hardy, and not well bearing the 
winters of Carolina to the northward. 
The fecond is the Bahama or falfe 
Gautimala, which bears the winter 
better, is a ftronger plant, and more 
fruitful, and is capable of being culti- 
vated on the vvorft foils in the coun- 
try, but is inferior to the firft in qua- 
lity of its dye. The third fort is a 
native, and is confequently more cul- 
tivated than the others. 

The time of fowing their indigo is 
after the firft rains which fucceed the 
vernal equinox : The feed is fown in 
drills about eighteen or twenty inches 
apart, when it comes up it muft be 
carefully kept from weeds and worms j 
when full grown it is about eighteen 
inches high, and when beginning to 
bloflbm it is fit for cutting, which will 
be about the beginning of July : To- 
wards the end of Auguft they cut a- 
gain, and about Michaelmas, if all 
things happen right, a third cutting is 
obtained ; The general produce oo 
S«o4 



I N p 



t N O 



good land is from forty tofixty pounds 
per acre, and a negro on an average 
can manage two acres of the plants, 
and finiih the manufacture of the 
drug. In the cutting:, gieat care is re- 
quisite to preferve the farina of the 
plant, as great part of the beauty of 
the drug depends en that circum- 
stance. 

The apparatus for in !igo the' con- 
siderable, is not expenfive, for befides 
a pomp, the whole confifts of vats and 
vefiels of cyprefs wood, whicli the 
country itfeh produces : when cut, 
the plant is brought and laid in a large 
vat called a itceper, which is fiiltd 
with water, and here left from twelve 
to fixteen hours, according to the wea- 
ther, when it begins to ferment, fwell, 
rife, and grow fenfibly warm ; to pre- 
vent its fermenting over the vat, pieces 
of wood are fixed to keep it down to 
its proper heigl t ; when the liquor be- 
gins to fink below the point, they fup- 
pofe the fermentation to be arrived at 
its due pitch, and it begins to abate; 
the overfeer then opens a cock, and 
lets off the liquor into another veffel, 
which they term the beater. 

This liquor Strongly impregnated 
with the particles of the indigo, they 
woikand agitate about in the beater 
with wicker bafkets without bottoms, 
and continue this agitation without 
ceafing till it froths, heats, and fer- 
ments above the edge of the beater ; to 
allay this fermentation, a little oil is 
poured in, and the beating again re- 
newed, for twenty, thirty, or forty mi- 
nutes, or until a fmall muddy grain 
begins to appear, which is the indigo 
granulating. 

To difcover this the better, and to 
find when the liquor is fufficiently agi- 
tated, they put fome of it continually 
in glaffes, or on plates, and from 
thence make their obfervations, and 
when they fuppofe the granulation 
near at hand, they add a little lime 
water from another veffel, which con- 
siderably quickens the work ; the li- 
quor appears of a purple hue, the 
whole becomes muddy, and the indi- 
go granulates more completely. It is 
now fuffeted to fettle, and the clearer 
part is let off into other veffels, letting 
off the water Still as it fettles, until 
only the muddy part remains, which 
is put into bags of coarfii linen, where 
it remains iili che moifiure i* entirely 



drained eff; after this, it is cautiously 
expofed to the fun in boxes or frames, 
till it is completely dried, and forms 
the drug called indigo. 

INOCULATING, or Budding. 
This is commonly praflifeH upon all 
forts of Stone fruit in particular, fuch 
as peaches, neclarineSjCherries, plumbs, 
&c, as alfo upon oranges and jafmines, 
and is preferable to any fort of graft- 
ing for moft forts of tender fruit. The 
method of performing it is as follows: 
You muft be provided with a fharp 
penknife, having a fiat halt (the ufe 
of which is to raife the bark of the 
(lock to admit the bud,) and fome 
found bafs mat, which mould be 
foaked in water to encreafe its flrengtli, 
and make it more pliable ; then having 
taken off the cuttings of the trees you 
would propagate, you fliould chufe a 
fmooth pari of the flock about five or 
fix inches above tiie furface of the 
ground, if defigned for dwarfs, but if 
for Standards they fliould be budded 
fix feet above ground ; then with your 
knife make an horizontal cut oofs the 
rind of the ftock, and from the middle 
of that cut make a flit downwards a- 
bout two inches in length, fo that it 
may be in the form of a T ; but you 
muft be careful not to cut too deep, 
kit you wound the ftock : then having 
cut off the leaf from the bud, leaving 
the foot-flalk remaining, you fhould 
make a crofs cut about half an inch 
below the eye, and with your knife flit 
off the bud, with part of the wood to 
it, in form of an efcutchen : This 
done, you muft with your knife pull 
off that part of the wood which was 
taken with the bud,obferving whether 
the eyes of the bud be left to it or not 
(for all thofe buds which lofe their 
eye in Stripping, fliould be thrown 
away, being good for nothing : ) then 
having gently raifed the baik of the 
ftock where the crofs incifion was 
made, with the flat haft of your pen- 
knife cleave the bark from the wood, 
and thruft the bud therein, obferving 
to place it fmooth between the rind 
and the wood of the ftock, cutting off 
any part of the rind belonging to the 
bud, which may be too long for the 
flit made in Stock; and fo the having 
exaftly fitted the bud to the ftock, you 
mull tie them clofely round with bafs 
mat, beginning at the under part of 
the flit, and fopioceed to the top, ta- 
king 



In s 



I N S 



king care that you do not bind round 
the eye of the bud, which fnould be 
left open. 

When your buds have been inocu- 
lated three weeks or a month, you will 
fee which of them have taken ; thofe 
of them which appear fhrivelled and 
black being dead, but thofe which re- 
main frefh and plump you may depend 
are joined ; at this time you fhould 
loofen the bandage, which if not done 
in time, will pinch the flock, and 
greatly injure, if not deftroy the bud. 

The March following you muft cut 
off the flock about the bud, Hoping it 
that the wet may pafs off, and not en- 
ter the flock 5 to this part of the ftock 
left above the bud, it is very proper 
to fatten the fhoot which the bud 
makes in fummer, to fecureit from be- 
ing blown out ; but this part of the 
ftock muft continue on no longer 
than one year, after which it muft be 
cut off clofe above the bud, that the 
ftock may be covered thereby. 

The time for inoculating is from the 
middle of June until the middle of Au- 
guft, according to the forvvardnefs of 
the feafon, and the particular forts of 
trees to be increafed ; which may ea- 
fily be known by trying the buds, whe- 
ther they will come off well from the 
wood. But the moft general rule is, 
when you obferve the buds formed at 
the extremity of the fame year's fhoot, 
which is a iign of their having finifhed 
their fpring growth. 

JOBVTEARS, [Coix.] It is an 
annual plant, which feldom ripens its 
feeds in England, ur.lefs the feafilh 
proves very warm ; from a thick fi- 
brous root is fent out two or three 
jointed ftalks, which rife two feet high, 
garnifhed with tingle, long, narrow 
leaves at each joint, refembling thofe 
of the reed ; at the bafe of the leaves 
come out the fpikes of flowers. Hand- 
ing on fliort foot-ftalks; the feed is 
hard, fmooth, and of a grey colour, 
greatly refembling the feeds of Grom- 
well, from whence this plant has been 
by feveral writers titled Lithofpernum. 

INOM, or Innom Barley. Such 
barley as is fown the fecond crop after 
the ground is fallowed. 

INSE-CT. A general name for the 
fmaller kinds of animals. 

With regard to the generation of in- 
fe£ts, the world is now in general con- 
vinced, that they are not bred from cor- 
Vol.I. 



ruption, but from eggs, though the 
contrary was believed by the ancients. 

Malpighi, Swammerdam, and Redi, 
have abundantly confuted the doclrine 
of equivocal generation, as well as the 
chimerical transformation of the ca- 
terpillar into the butterfly, and have 
fhewn, that all the members of the 
butterfly were inclofed under the nym- 
pha or fkin of the caterpillar, as the 
parts of a plant are in the feed. 

Infefts take particular care to depo- 
fit their eggs or femen in fuch places 
where they may have a fufficient incu- 
bation, and where the young, when 
hatched, may have proper food till 
they can fhilt for themfelves. Thofe 
whofe food is in the water, lay their 
eggs there ; thofe to whom fkfh is a 
proper food, in flefh ; and thofe to 
whom the fruits or leaves of vegetables 
are food, are accordingly depofited 
there, but cenftantly the fame kind in 
the fame tree. As for others that re- 
quire a greater degree of warmth, they 
are provided by the parent with fome 
place in or about the body of other 
animals, as the feathers of birds, hair 
of beafis, fcales of fiih, in the nofe, 
in the flefh, nay fome in the bowels of 
man, and other creatures. And as for 
others, they make them nefts, by dig- 
ging in the earth, wood, &c. carrying 
in and fealing up provifions that ferve 
for the production of their young, and 
for their food when produced. 

There is obferved in flies, butterflies, 
&c. a kind of glue, by which the fe- 
male fallens her eggs to the bearing 
buds of trees, &.c. fo as not to be hurt 
by rain or froft. 

Mr. Ar.dry, in his treatife De la Ge- 
neration des vers dans Ie Corps de 
V Homme, takes notice, that the an- 
cients weie miftaken in denying that 
infecls breathed, on account of their 
wanting lungs; for modern obferva- 
tions convince us, that infecls have a 
greater number of lungs than any o- 
ther animals. They alfo thought that 
they had no blood, as many of them 
had no red liquor like ours ; but it is 
not the colour, but the ufe of the li- 
quor that is to be regarded. They 
alfo believed that they had no hearts ; 
whereas our niicrofcopes now difcover 
that, when infefls have feveral lungs, 
they have alfo feveral hearts ; and this 
in particular is obfervable in fiikworms, 
who have a continued chain of hearts 
3 G from 



INS 



I P E 



from the head almoft to the extremity and he thought her plainly the fame 
of the tail ; and, as is apparent from as the locufts, excepting that it had 



feveral infefls, who give figns of life, 
long after they are divided into feveral 
parts. 

Infe&swant no parts that are either 
neceffary or convenient for their ufe, 



wings. He did not find more than 
one fly at any one root. 

We too often find, in our kitchen 
gardens, a fort of vermin called vine- 
fretter. They fix upon the roots of le- 



or to render them compleat in their guminous plants, which afterwards 
kind. Some affirm that earth-worms, gradually turn yellow, and die. M. 



and thofe round-tailed worms, which 
are found in the inteftines of men, 
horfes, &c. as alfo fnails and horfe- 
leeches, are hermaphrodies ; but that 
fuch worms as become flies, and that 
filk-worms, are not fo, being of no 
fex, but nefts full of real animals, 
which in time come out with wings. 

Several forts of infefts do irreparable 
Injury to the hufbandman, though fo 
very minute as hardly to be difcovered. 

Amongothers, afmall kind of worm 



Tillet fays, he has obferved the fame 
infe<fl in the roots of wheat. 

The cuckow-fpit, or fpit-forth, as it 
is commonly termed, lodges itfelf 
principally in the joints of plants, fel- 
dom appears before the latter end of 
May, and is moft common when rain 
has fallen after a feries of dry weather. 
M. Poupart, in his account of this lit- 
tle creature, fays, that as foon as it is 
out of its egg, it goes to a plant, which 
it touches with its fundament, and 



gets into the roots, chiefly of oats and faftens there a white drop of liquor 

wheat, and, working upward, deftroys full of air ; that it drops a fecond near 

all the infide of the plant, which pe- the firft, then a third, and fo on till it 

riflies foon after. M. Duhamel fuf- «covers itfelf all over with a fcum or 

pedis it to have been an infe<£l of this froth, which keeps it from the heat of 

kind that deftroyed vaft quantities of the fun, or fpiders that would fuck it. 

wheat in the neighbourhood of Ge- But Mr. Lifle takes this liquid to beno- 



neva, and of which M. de Chateau- 
vieux fent him the following account. 
" Our wheat, fays that illuftrious huf- 
bandman, in the month of May 1755, 
fufUined a lofs which even that culti- 
vated according to the New Husbandry 
did not efcape, We found in it many 
little white worms, which afterwards 
became of a chefnut colour. They 



thing but the nightly dew, which falls 
on the fork or joint of the plant, where 
the little infedl works it into froth 
with its probofcis, as with a bellows. 

St. JOHN's-BREAD. See Bean- 
Tree. 

St. John's- Wort, [Hypericum.] 
This grows wild in woods and uncul- 
tivated places throughout England. 



port themfelves between the blades, Its tafte is rough and bitterifh ; the 
and eat the flems. They are ufually fmell difagreeable. Hypericum has 
found between the firft joint and the long been celebrated as a corroborant, 
roots. Every ftalk which they attack- diuretic, and vulnerary; but more 
ed grew no more, but became yellow particularly inhyfterical and maniacal 
and withered. The fame misfortune diforders : it has been reckoned of 
befel us in the year 1732. Thefe in- fuch efficacy in thefe laft, as to have 
fedls appeared about the middle of thence received the name of fuga de~ 
May, and made fuch havock that the motrnm. It is obfervable, that the flow- 
crop was almoft deftroyed." ery tops tinge exprefled oils of a red 
Mr. Lifle mentions, that on the 13th colour (which very few vegetable fub- 
and 14th of June, in pulling up wheat fiances will do) and communicate a 
in ear, and fo\v- thirties, he obferved, a- blood red to rectified fpirit. The oil 
mong the upper part of the roots of tinged by them is kept in the (hops, 
thefe, knots or clufters of grafs lice, Sweet John. A narrow-leaved 
or green locufts, as he calls them, Sweet- William. See Carnation. 



which appeared whiteft when they were 
but juft come to -their fhape, and as 
yet under ground : and among moft 
of thefe clufters he obferved a fly at 
her incubation, very turgid, of a whi- 



John-Apple. An apple fo called, 
JONQUIL. See Daffodil. 
JUG. Meadow or pafture. 
IPECACOANHA. A root brought 
from the Spanifh Weft-Indies. It is 



tifh matter; fhe being then blowing divided into two forts, Peruvian arid 
thefe infects. Her wings were black, Brazilian : but the eye diftinguifhe* 

three, 



I P E 



I P E 



three, afh -coloured or grey, brown, and 
white. The afh-coloured, or Peruvian 
ipecacoanha of the ftiops, is a fmall 
wrinkled root, bent and contorted in- 
to a great variety of figures, brought 
over in fhort pieces, full of wrinkles, 
and deep circular fiffures, quite down 
to a fmall white woody fibre that runs 
in the middle of each piece ; the cor- 
tical part is compact, brittle, looks 
fmooth and refinous upon breaking : 
it has very little fmell ; the tafte is 
bitterifh and fubacrid, covering the 
tongue, as it were, with a kind of mu- 
cilage. The brown is fmall, and 
fomewhat more wrinkled than the 
foregoing, of a brown or blackifh co- 
lour without, and white within ; this 
is brought from Brazil. The white 
fort is woody, has no wrinkles, and no 
perceptible bitternefs in tafte. The 
firft fort (the afhcoloured, or grey ipe- 
cacoanha) is that ufually preferred for 
medicinal ufe. The brown has been 
fometimes obferved, even in a fma"W 
dofe, to produce violent effects. The 
white, though taken in a large one, has 
fcarce any effect at all: Mr. Geoffroy 
calls this fort baftard ipecacoanha, 
and complains that it is an impofition 
upon the public. To what fpecies of 
plant the ipecacoanha belongs, hasnot 
as yet been determined. Geoffroy, 
Neuman, Dale, and Sir Hans Sloane, 
inform us, that the roots of a kind of 
apocynum (dog's bane) are too fre- 
quently brouglu over in its ftead : and 
inftances are given of ill confequences 
following from the ufe of thefe roots : 
if the marks above laid down, parti- 
cularly the afh colour, brittlentfs, deep 
wrinkles, and bitterifh tafte, be care- 
fully attended to, all miftakes of this 
kind may be prevented. 

Ipecacoanha was firft brought into 
Europe about the middle of Jaft cen- 
tury, and an account of it published a- 
bout the fame timebyPifo; but it 
did not come into general ufe till about 
the year 1686, when Helvetius, under 
the patronage of Lewis XIV, introdu- 
ced it into practice. The root is one 
of the mildeft and fafeft emetics we 
are acquainted with ; and has this pe- 
culiar advantage, that if it fhould not 
operate by vomit, it paffes off by the 
other emunctories. It was firft intro- 
duced among us with the character of 
an almoft infallible remedy in dyfente- 
jjes, and other inveterate fluxes ; as 



alfo in difotders proceeding from ob" 
ftructions of long Handing ; nor has it 
loft much of its reputation by time. 
It dyfenteries, it almoft always pro- 
duces happy effecls, and often performs 
a cure in a very fhort fpace of time. 
In other fluxes of the belly, in begin- 
ning dyfenteries, and fuch as are of a 
malignant kind, or where the patient 
breathes a tainted air, it has not been 
found equally fuccefsful : in thefe 
cafes it is neceffary to continue the 
ufe of this medicine for feveral days, 
and to join with it opiates, diaphore- 
tics, and the like. This root, given in 
fubftance, is as effectual, if not more 
fo than any of the preparations of it : 
the pure refin acts as a ftrong irritating 
emetic, but is of little fervice in dyf- 
enteries ; whilft an extract prepared 
witli water is almoft of equal fervice 
in thefe cafes with the root itfelf, tho* 
it has little effect as an emetic. Geof- 
froy concludes from hence, that the 
chief virtue of ipecacoanha in dyfen- 
teries depends upon its gummy fub- 
ftance, which lining the inteftines with 
a foft mucilage, when their own mu- 
cus has been abraded, occafions their 
exulcerations to heal, and defends 
them from the acrimony of the juices: 
and that the refinous part, in which 
the emetic quality refides, is required 
where the morbific matter is lodged 
in the glands of the ftomach and in- 
teftines. But if the virtues of this 
root were entirely owing to its muci- 
laginous, or gummy part, pure gums 
or mucilages might be employed to 
equal advantage. Water, affifted by 
a boiling heat, takes up from all ve- 
getables a confiderable portion of refi- 
nous along with the gummy matter : 
if the ipecacoanha, remaining after the 
action of water, bedigefted with pure 
fpirit, it will not yield half fo much 
refin as at firft: fo that the aqueous 
extract differs from the crude root only 
in degree, being proportionablylefs re- 
finous, and having lefs effect, both as 
an emetic, and in the cure of dyfente- 
ries. The virtues of ipecacoanha, in 
this diforder, depend upon its promot- 
ing perfpiration, the freedom of which 
is here of the utmoft importance, and 
an increafe of which, even in health- 
ful perfons, is generally obferved to 
fupprefs the evacuation by ftool, In 
dyfenteries, the fkin is for the moft 
part dry and tenfe, and perfpiration 
3 G z obftrufted : 



J U D 



J u r> 



obftrtieted : the common diaphoretics 
;>afs off without effect through the in- 
teftinal canal: but ipecacoanha, if the 
patient, after a puke or two, be co- 
vered up warm, brings on a plenti- 
t'ul fweat. After the removal of the 
dyfentery, it is necefiary to continue 
theufe of the medicine for fome time 
longer, in order to prevent a relapfc : 
tor this purpofe, a few grains, divided 
into feveral dofes, fo as not to occafion 
3ny fenfible evacuation, may be exhi- 
bited every day 5 by this means the 
cure is effectually eftablifhed. And 
indeed fmall dofes, given even from the 
beginning, have been often found to 
have better effects in the cure of this 
difeafe than larger ones. Geoffroy in- 
forms us, from his own experience, 
that he lias obferved ten grains of the 
powder to act as effectually as a fcru- 
pls or two 5 and therefore confines the 
dofe betwixt fix and ten grains. 

IRONWOOD, [Syderoxuum.] This 
is a native of warm climates, and will 
no. bear the air of England, unlefs pre- 
served in ftoves; it may be propagated 
by layers and feeds. 

I RON WORT, [Siierlth.] This 
plant will bear the open air, and may 
be propagated by feeds. It is only ad- 
mitted into the gardens for the fake 
of variety. 

JUDAS-TREE, [Cods.] The fpe- 
cles aie, i. The common Judas Tree. 
2. The Canada Judas Tree. 3. The 
Carolina Judas Tree, with pointed 
leaves. 

The firft of thefe is a native of the 
warmer parts of Europe, and abounds 
in Italy, Spain, and thefouthern parts 
of France. 

The fecond fort is common in Vir- 
ginia, New-England, Canada, and 
moft of the northern countries of A- 
merica, where it is called Red Bud, 
from the beautiful colour of its flow- 
er-buds. 

The third fort is a common plant in 
the woods of Carolina, but differs 
from the other two in the form of its 
leaves, which are pointed, the former 
being nearly round 5 the flowers of 
this too are firuller, and the plants, for 
three or fouryears, require a little more 
fheher in cafe of hard winters, after 
which they will bear our climate per- 
fectly well in an ordinary fituation. 

Thefe trees may be propagated by 
layers, which will make handfome e- 



nough plants if properly trained ; but 
the feedlings are ftill better, and feeds 
from the places of their native growth 
are preferable to thofe faved in Britain, 
being larger and better ripened. 

As foon as thofe feeds are either re- 
ceived from abroad, or gathered at 
home, after having been made quite 
dry, let them be mixed with loof^ fanci, 
and preferved from froft and wet till 
the latter end of March, as the wea- 
ther is more or lefs favourable. About 
this time low then) on a bed of rich 
mellow dry foil, and cover them half 
an inch deep. In four or five weeks 
the plants will begin to appear, when 
the bed ought to be hooped over, and, 
when neceffary, covered with mats, 
firft to protect them from the cold 
frofty winds frequent at that feafon, 
and exceffive rains which fometimes 
barft them, and afterwards to fcreen 
them from the fcorching heat of the 
fun, which will much accelerate their 
growth. From their appearance above 
ground, they mud be gently, though 
frequently watered in the mornings 
while the weather continues cold, but 
afterwards in the evenings when mild. 
In this fituation they will require no 
more trouble, than, in cafe of a fevere 
winter, throwing the mats over them 
in ftorms, and removing them regularly 
as the air becomes temperate. 

The fucceeding fpring, as foon as 
the buds begin to fwell, remove the 
plants from the feminary to a nurfery 
of the fame kind of well-prepared 
loofe foil ; fhorten the top-roots, and 
plant them in rows two feet and a 
half diflant, and about a foot afunder 
in the row ; give them a gentle water- 
ing, which ought to be frequently re- 
peated in the evenings of dry weather 
during the fummer months, and keep 
the (oil about them clean and mellow. 
Thefe trees naturally grow in a wild 
irregular manner, and, when left to 
unaffifted nature, are rather of the 
bufliy fhrub kind To correct this 
defect, place a (take firm by the fide 
of each plant ; and as it advances in 
height, tie the leading fhcot to it with 
a pitce of fofc bafs, which direction it 
will afterward retain, and the plants 
will grow ftraight and regular. In 
cafe the following winter fhould prove 
fevere, it may be neceffary to throw 
fome peafe-ftraw over the ground, to 
keep the frofis from injuring the roots, 
and, 



J U L 

and, the fucceeding fpring, let it be 
dug into the ground between the rows. 
At this time let all the low-growing 
branches of the former year be cut 
clofe away, that they may not impede 
the vigorous growth of the leading 
ihoot, which mu ft be conftantly tied 
to the ftake as it advances in height ; 
but though the loweft, all the fmall 
branches are not to be taken away, 
that the main one may not be drawn 
too tall and (lender, but advance with 
bulk proportioned to its height. If 
thefe circumrtances are attended to, 
the plants will only require the additi- 
onal trouble of keeping them clean 
during their abode here. 

The Judas-tree fhould not remain 
longer than two years in the fame nur- 
fery from the feed -bed, and therefore, 
the fucceeding fpring, may either be 
planted out where they are to remain, 
or (which Mr. Boutcher rather advifes) 
be committed to another nurfery, and 
planted at greater intervals, for two 
years longer, where they may be treated 
in the fame manner as has been di- 
rected ; by which time, they will be 
large, handfome, hardy plants. 

JUG. A drinking veflel with a 
fwelling belly. 

JUJUBES, [Jujuba.] A half-dried 
fruit brought from France, fujubes 
have a pleafant fweet tafte. They are 
recommended in an acrimonious ftate 
of the juices; in coughs from thin 
fharp defiuxions ; and in heat of u- 
rine : but they are at prefent, among 
us, a ftranger to medicinal practice, 
and to the fhops. 

JULIANS. Dame's flower. 

JULY. The feventh month of the 
year, containing 31 days. 

Produtl of the Kitchen Garden. 

Artichoak, cauliflowers, cabbages 
carrots, beans, peafe, kidney-beans 
turnips, lettuces, cucumbers, melons 
all forts of fallet, finochia, onions 
garlick, rocambole, parfley, chervil 
beets, horfe-radifh, eariy potatoes, bu- 
rach, radilhes, marygolds, aromatic 
herbs, &c. 

Fruits in prime, and nt,iv Lifting. 

Pears: Piimative, Robine, Petit 
Mufcat, Cuiffe Madam, Mufcadelle- 
rouge, Orange Mufk, and fome others. 
The black pear of Worcefter, and 
Lord Cheyne's green pear, if well pre- 
ferved, remain yet in being. 

Apples : Codlin, margaret apple, 



JUt 

white juneating, Stubbard's apple, 
fummer coftin, fummer pearmain, 
pomme de Rambour. The John ap- 
ple, ftone pippin, and oaken pin, yet 
remain of the former year. 

Cherries : Kentifh, Duke, Gaf- 
coign's-heart, Carnation, Lukeward, 
Ox-heart, Amber-heart, Coroon, white 
Spanifh, amber, and black-cherries. 

Peaches : Brown and white Nutmeg, 
and Anne Peaches. 

Nectarines : Fairchild's early nut- 
meg, Newington, Roman red, Elruge, 
and the Brunion. 

Plumbs : Jaun Hative, Morocco, 
Orleans, blue Primordian, Violet, 
Royai, Blue Perdrigon, Mirabelle, Im- 
perial, white Matchlefs, Maitre Claude, 
Green Gage, Fotheringham, Damoi- 
fine, Drap d'Or, Gros Damas Violet, 
Chefton, with fome others. 

Apricots : The Orange, Roman, 
Breda, Algier, Bruxelles, and Turkey. 

Goofeberries, rafpberries, and cur- 
rants, and in cold fituations, white, 
green, and Chili ftrawberries. 

And in the Stove, the Anana or 
Pine Apple. 

Plants neiv in Flstver in the Pleasure 
Garden. 

Carnations, pinks, female balfamine, 
Marvel of Peru, bean caper, caplicum 
indicum, eveilalting pea, fweet-fcented 
pea, golden rod of feveral kinds, French 
Marygold, African, amaranthus's, a- 
maranthoides, fcarlet lychnis, double 
rofe campion, Virginian fpiderwort, 
annual ftock-july-flower, China pink, 
double ptarmica or fneezewort, lark- 
fpurs, fome forts of ftarwort, fun-flo- 
wer of different kinds, moly's, virgin's 
bower, fcarlet martagon, double white 
lily, day lily, ornithogalum, peach-lea- 
ved campanula, red valerian, French 
willow, acanthus, lychnideas two or 
three kinds, poppies of divers kinds, 
great gentian, fweet fultan three kinds, 
Indian fcabious, Venus looking-glafs, 
nigella, Venus navelwort, thorn apple, 
dwarf annual ftock, dwarf lychnis, 
lupines of feveral forts, linarias feveral 
forts, white hellebore, Spanifh figwort, 
antirrhinum or calves fnout of feveral 
forts, hieraciums of feveral kinds, and 
fome others of lefs note. 
J lardy Trees and Shrubs nonv in Floivcr, 

Several forts of rofes, Dutch, late- 
red, ever-green, Englifh long- blowing, 
fcarlet Virginian, and late white honey- 
fuckles, Spanifh broom, Virginian aca- 
cia, 



J U L 



J U N 



cla, the tulip-tree, fhrub cinquefoil, 
common white, yeliow, and dwarf yel- 
lowjafmines, fpirea with yellow leaves, 
ditto with marih elder- leaves, Catefby's 
climber, double and fingle pomegra- 
nates, paffion-fiower, trumpet flower 
oleafter or wild olive, agnus caftus, al- 
thsea frutex, bladder fena, cytiffus lu- 
natus, cifttufes two or three kinds, Ca- 
nary hypericnm, phlomis or fage tree 
two or three forts, with fome others. 
Plants in Flower in the Green- Hcufe 

and Stove. 
Oranges and lemons, myrtles, amo- 
mum Plinii, barba Jovis or lilver bufh, 
ciltus halim folio, ciftus ledon, two or 
three forts ; Spanifli yellow Indian a- 
zorian, Arabian and ilex-leaved jaf- 
mines, geraniums of feveral forts, tree 
fcabioustwo forts, colutea /Erhiopica, 
apocynums of feveral kinds, blue and 
fcarlet cardinal's flower, caffias of two 
forts, Acacia lndica Aldini ; Guido- 
nia Ulmi facie, the fenfitive and hum- 
ble plants, coral-tree, lotus argentea 
cretica, and lotus haemorrhoidalis a- 
nonis, two or three forts, granadillas 
two or three forts, coffee-tree, white 
Spanifh broom, Fabago Africana ar- 
borefcens flore fulphureo, &c. Olean- 
ders red, white, fweet-fcented and 
double-flowered, frittillaria craffa both 
forts, feveral forts of ficoides, fmall 
creeping ceretis, Cotyledons of feveral 
forts, fedums feveral kinds, Ketmias 
of feveral forts, tithymals of feveral 
forts, Ricinus or palma Chrifti, Rici- 
noides folio muldndo, blue umbellated 
throat wort, convolvulufeifoveral forts, 
double Indian nafturtium, myrto cif- 
tus, polygnla frutefcens, digitalis acan- 
thoides, heliotropium fcorodoniae fo- 
lio, gnaphalium maritimum, elychry- 
fums feveral forts, caltha AtVicana 
croci folio, &c. Anemonofpermos of 
feveral forts, Dorias feveral forts, blue 
African umbellated hyacinth, Indian 
reed of two or three forts, aloes of fe- 
veia! forts, Yucca, phalangium foliis 
cepaceis, Zeylon lily, dracunculoides, 
baffella^, tetragonocarpos, viburnums 
two or three forts, olives, rhamnufes 
two or three forts, papaya, iifyrinchi- 
vm, Indian figs of feveral kinds, mo- 
mordica, caper-tree, phytolacca, with 
feme others. 
Medkinalplanti which may be now ga- 
.-/.' red for ufe. 
Fomentil, Winter favory, ros foils, 
fheezewort, clown's woundwort, origa- 
nums, toadflax, worm-wood, wild and 



wood fage, clary, endweed, goat's rue, 
waterdock, maliic, fweet cicely, pnr- 
fiane, with moft of thofe mentioned 
for June. 

JUNE. The 6th month of the year 
containing 30 days. 

The ProduBs of the Kitchen Garden. 
Cauliflowers, cabbages, beans, peafe, 
artichokes, carrots, turneps, cabbage, 
brown Dutch, Imperial, Silefia, white 
and black cos ; royal and green cab- 
bage lettuces ; all forts of young fallet 
herbs, as creffes, chervil, corn fallet, 
muftard,rape, turnep, &c. 

All forts of fweet herbs, as lavender, 
thyme, winter favory, hyffbp, marum, 
ftaechas, &c. as alfo fage, clary, rofe- 
mary, origanum, penny-royal, mint, 
baum, and many other forts of medi- 
cinal plants ; as alfo purflain, cucum- 
bers, melons, finochia, parfley, forrel, 
with many others. 

Fruits in prime, or yet lajling. 
Goofeberries, ftrawberries, rafpber- 
ries, currants, Duke, Kentifh, Flanders 
heart, black heart, lukeward and Spa- 
nifh cherries 5 mafculine apricot, early 
nutmeg peach; and in the forcing 
frames feveral forts of peaches, necta- 
rines, grapes, apricots, &c. and in the 
ftove, the ananas or pine apple. 
Fruits continuing. 
Golden ruffet, ftone pippin, Deux 
Anns or John apple, oaken pin, and 
fome other apples; as alfo Lord Chey- 
ney's winter green, black pear of Wor- 
cefter, double flower, Royal de Huy- 
ver, winter Boncretien, Burgamot Bu- 
gi, Englifh Warden, and fome other 
forts of pears, if well preferved. 
Plants now in Flower in the Pleasure 

Garden. 
Stock July-flowers of feveral forts, 
white wall-flower fingle and double, 
French honey-fuckle white and red, 
lobels, catch-fly, Venus navel-wort, 
flos Adonis, double and fingle fweet- 
williams, double perennial catch-fly, 
feveral forts of daizies, bulbous-fiery 
lily, martagons feveral forts, fea daffo- 
dil, bloody cranes-bill, feveral forts of 
bulbous iris's, Canterbury bell, peach- 
leav'd bell-flower, nettle-leaved bell- 
flower with blue and white flowers, 
fingle and double; red, white, and 
garden valerian ; buphtiialmums of 
feveral forts, leucanthemum or ox- 
eye daizy, red and white batchelor's 
button double and fingle, double 
and fingle rofe campions both white 
and red, double ragged robin, lych- 
nis, 



J U N 



J U N 



nis from the Alps with deep red 
flowers growing in an umbel, fe- 
veral forts of Molys, omithogulums, 
Savoy and Tradefcant's fpider-wort, 
French willow, tree primrofe, poppies 
of various kinds, columbines of vari- 
ous colours, fcarlet lychnis, Spaniih 
fig-wort, Fairchild's mule, lychnideas, 
fraxinella white and red, monk's wood, 
great blue bottle, blue feathered hya- 
cinth, double-white mountain ranun- 
culus, larkfpurs of feveral kinds, In- 
dian fweet-fmelling fcabious, fweet 
fultan, fweet peaje, everlafting peafe, 
feveral forts of thrift, fea holly, moun- 
tain fmooth-leav'd and Alpine blue 
fea hollies, golden rod of two or three 
kinds, Sir George Wheeler's tutfan, 
Nigella, or fennel-flower of feveral 
kinds, hieraciums feveral forts, fun- 
flower, white lily, ftrip'd white lily, 
candy tuft, dwarf lychnis, fox-gloves, 
gladiolufes feveral kinds, white helle- 
bore, female balfamine, French mary- 
gold ; Africans, Indian Pinks ; flam- 
mula Jovis, periwinckles, broad-leav'd 
upright lily of the valley flower'd, and 
deep-red apocymums or dog's-banes, 
yellow perennial and white Tangier 
fumitories, day lily, fea rag-wort, foms 
carnations, with feveral other of lefs 
note. 
Trees and Shrubs which are hardy, now 
in flower. 
Scorpion and bladder fena, rofes of 
feveral kinds, double and Angle vir- 
gin's bower, Ciflufes of feveral forts, 
moon trefoil, Spanifh broom, fyringa, 
deader, or wild olive, fpirea falicis fo- 
lio, common white, dwarf, and com- 
mon yellow jafmines ; Italian, late 
red, German evergreen, Englifh long- 
flowering, and common or late white 
honey-fuckles ; nettle-tree, lime-tree, 
fpirea opuli folio, Catefby's climber or 
Carolina kidney-bean tree, upright 
fweet Canada rafberry, woody night- 
lhade, mallow-tree, althaea frutex, tu- 
lip-tree, fhrub cinquefoil, Spanim tree 
germander, perennial fhrubby lamium 
or bafe horehound, with fome others 
of lefs note. 

Plants now in Flower in the Grcen-Houfe, 
Garden, and Sto-ve. 
Oranges, lemons, citrons, myrtles, 
olives, geraniums of feveral forts, fcar- 
let althaea, barba Jovis, yellow Indian, 
Spaniih, ilex-leav'd, and Arabian jaf- 
mines j fedums of feveral kinds, fi- 
ooides of feveral forts, cotyledons, aloes 



of feveral kinds, fome forts of paflion- 
flowers. French phyfick nut, coffee 
tree, dwarf pomegranate, oleanders, 
three-leav'd fumach, Indian cane, cy- 
tinufes, cilhifes of feveral forts, amo- 
mum IMinii, feveral forts of apocynum 
or dogs-bane, dwarf American campa- 
nula, anemonofpermefes of feveral 
forts, polygana Aft icana, wliiteSpanifh 
broom, colutea /Fithiopica flore Fhce- 
nicio, African tree fcabious, fenfitive 
plant, slcea frutefcens flore rubro, me- 
lianthus or honey-flower, tree fagf, 
with feveral others. 

Medicinal Plants. 

Mullein, fpeedwell, figwort, water 
betony, fun-dew, farvile, felf-heal, 
penny-royal, red poppy-flower, pelli- 
tory, catmint, water-lily, fpearmint, 
peppermint, fcabious, yarrow, devil's- 
bit, feverfew, meiilot,burnet, mallow, 
black and white horehound, burnet- 
faxifrage, fageof virtue, red fage, dit- 
tander, mountain flax, tanfey, flone- 
crop, hare's-foot trefoil, St. John's- 
wort, hyffop, alifander, afh leaves, 
herb-robert, mufk crane's-bill, dove's- 
foot crane's-bill, broom, hedge muf- 
tard, hemp agrimony, broad and nar- 
row- leaved plantain, dragon's tarra- 
gon, lavender cotton, ladies bed-Araw, 
common and Roman wormwood, la- 
vender fpike, lime-tree flowers, bear's- 
breech, comfreys, fpinach, maudlin, 
houfe- leek, mothercitliy me, agrimony, 
hemlock, water hemlock, vervain, 
thyme, marfh-mallow, fuccory, ladies- 
mantle, pimpernel, dwarf-elder, refl- 
harrow, blue-bottles, rofemary, mary- 
golds, filver-weed, germander, orpine, 
fowbreadroot, foxglove, mugwort, bo- 
rage, buglofs, fowthiftle, garden orach, 
(linking orach, fhepherd's purfe, ho- 
ney-fuckle, betony, carduus benedic- 
tus, calamint, avens, knot-grafs, ca- 
momiles, hound's-tongue, eye-bright, 
rcfes, elder-flowers, flaechas, and 
brook-limes. 

JUNIir-R, [Juviperus.] Thisgrows 
naturally in many parts of England ; 
it is a low fr.rub, fddom rising more 
than four or five feet high, fending 
out many fpreading branches, co- 
vered with a bro^.n bark, garnithed 
with narrow awl-fhaped leaves, end- 
ing in acute points, placed by threes 
round the branches, which are of a 
greyifh colour, and continue through 
the year ; the male flowers fometimes 
are ficuated at diftances on the fame 
plant 



K I D 



KIT 



plant with the female, at other times 
they are upon diftincl plants : the fe- 
male flowers arefucceeded byroundifh 
berries which are firft green, but when 
ripe are of a dark purple colour. The 
berries ripen in the autumn. 

The" wood, the berries, and the gum, 
are ufed in medicine j the gum is ti- 
tled fandaracha. 

JUPlTER's-BEARD, [Earbajtw'a.] 
Silver-buih. This is a fhrub growing 
to the height of ten or twelve feet, the 
leaves are white and hairy, the flowers 
of a bright yellow colour appear in 
June. It is propagated by feeds and 
cuttings. 

IVY, [Hedera.] This is a climbing 
fhrubby plant, growing commonly 
from the trunks of trees, on old 
walls. The leaves have very rarely 
been exhibited internally, notwith- 
standing they are recommended againft 
the atrophy of children : their tafte 
is naufeous, acrid, and bitter. Exter- 
nally they have fometimes been em- 
ployed for drying and healing ichorous 
tores, and ljkewife for keeping iffues 



open. The berries were fuppofed by 
the antients to have a purgative and 
emetic quality : later writers have re- 
commended them in fmall dofes, as di- 
aphoretics and alexipharmacs ; and 
Mr. Boyle tells us, that in the London 
plague the powder of them was given 
with vinegar, with good fuccefs, as a 
fudorific : but we apprehend that the 
virtue of the compofnion was ra- 
ther owing to the vinegar than to the 
powder. 

There is fpecies of ivy common in 
North - America, which has been 
brought into England, that climbs like 
the Englifh ivy, but fhoots to the length 
of twenty feet in a feafon ; it may be 
propagated by cuttings ; it is generally 
called Virginian or American creeper. 

Ground Ivy. See Ground Ivy. 

Gum Ivy. This gum or refin was 
ranked by the ancients among the de- 
pilatories ; from this clafs, which it 
certainly had no title to, it has fince 
been removed to that of conglutina- 
ters of wounds, to which it has no 
very juft one. 



K. 



KALI. Glafswort. 
KEDLACK. Charlock. 

KEEVE, or River. A fiat vefiel 
to work beer in, &c. 

KEG. A fmall veffcl or calk. 

KELL. A web, in which infedls 
jnvelope themfelves- 

KELP. Thefaltcrafhesofglaflwort. 

KERNEL. The eatable fubftance 
cnclofed in a (hell. 

KEXES. Hemlock. 

KID. The young of the goat. 

KIDNEY-BEANS. See French 
Beans. 

Kidney-Bean-Tree, {Glycine.'] 
This climbing plant is raifed for fale 
in feveral nurferies near London, where 
it is known by the name of Carolina 
Kidney-bean-tree. It is propagated 
by laying down the young branches in 



Oflober, which will be rooted by that 
time twelvemonth, and may then be 
tranfplanted eitherinto a nurfery for a 
year to get ftrength, or to the place 
where they are to remain for good, 
which fhould be in a warm light foil 
and sheltered fituation, where they will 
endure the cold of our ordinary win- 
ter very well ; and if their roots be 
covered with ftraw, fern, peafe-haulm, 
or any other light covering, there will 
be no danger of their being deftroyed 
by great froft. 

KIDNEYWORT. Navelwort. 

KINE. Cattle. 

KINNEL. A powdering tub, a 
faking trough. 

KING's-SPEAR. See Asphodel. 

KIT. A milking pail with two 
ears and a cover. 

KITCHEN- 



K I T 



K I T 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. A good 
kitchen-garden is almoft as neceffary 
in the country, as a kitchen to a houfe; 
for without one, there is no way of 
being fupplied with a great part of 
neceffary food, the markets in the 
country being but poorly furnifhed 
with efculent herbs, and thofe only 
upon the market-days, which are fel- 
dom oftener than once a week ; fo 
that unlefs a perfon has a garden of 
his own, there will be no fuch thing 
as procuring them frefh, in which their 
goodnefs confifts ; nor can any variety 
of thefebe had in the country markets, 
therefore whoever propofes to refide in 
the country mould be careful to make 
choice of a proper fpot of ground for 
thispurpofe; and the fooner that is 
made and planted, the produce of it 
will be earlier in perfection ; for fruit 
trees and afparagus require three years 
to grow, before any produce can be 
expected from them ; fo that the later 
the garden is made, the longer it will 
be before a fupply of thefe things can 
be had for the table. 

The great thing to be confidered is, 
to make choice of a good foil, not too 
wet nor over dry, but of a middling 
quality ; nor fhould it be too ftrong 
or itubborn, but of a pliable nature, 
and eafy to work ; and if the place 
where you intend to make the kitchen- 
garden mould not be level, but high in 
one place and low in another, we 
would by no means advife the levelling 
it ; for by this fituation you will have 
an advantage which could not be ob- 
tained on a perfedt level, which is, the 
having one part of dry ground for 
early crops, and the low part for late 
crops, whereby the kitchen may be the 
better fupplied throughout the feafon 
with the various forts of herbs, roots, 
&c. And in very dry feafons, when in 
the upper part of the garden the crops 
will greatly fuffer with drought, then 
the lower part will fucceed, and fo 
vice verfa; but we would by no means 
direct the chufing a low moift fpot of 
ground for this purpofe, for although 
in fuch foils garden herbs are com- 
monly more vigorous and large in the 
fummer feafon, yet they are feldom fo 
well tafted or wholfome as thofe which 
grow upon a moderate foil j and efpe- 
cially, fince in this garden your choice 
fruits mould be planted, it would be 

Vol. J. 3 H 



wrong to make choice of a very wet 
foil for this purpofe. 

This garden mould be fully expofed 
to the fun, and by no means over- 
fhadowed with trees, buildings, &c. 
which are very injurious to fruit trees; 
but if it be defended from the north 
wind by a diftant plantation, it will 
greatly preferve the early crops in the 
fpring. But thefe plantations fhould 
not be too near nor very large, feu - we 
have generally found, where kitchen- 
gardens are placed near woods or large 
plantations, they have been much more 
troubled with blights in the fpring 
than thofe which have been more ex- 
pofed. 

The quantity of ground neceffary 
for a kitchen-garden muft be propor- 
tioned to the laigenefs of the family, 
or the quantity of herbs defired : for 
a fmall family, one acre and a half of 
ground may be fufficientj but for a 
large family, there fhould not be lefs 
than four or five acres ; becaufe, when 
the ground is regularly laid out, and 
planted with efpaiiers of fruit-trees, 
this quantity will be found little e- 
nough, notwithftanding what fome 
perfons have faid on this head. 

This ground muft be walled round, 
and if it can be conveniently contrived, 
fo as to plant both fides of the walls 
which have good afpefts, it will be a 
great addition to the quantity of wall 
fruit : and thofe flips of ground which 
are without fide of the walls, will be 
very ufeful for planting of goofeber- 
ries, currants, ftrawberries, and fome 
forts of kitchen plants, fo that they 
may be rendered equally ufeful with 
any of the quarters within the walls ; 
but thefe flips fhould not be too nar- 
row, left the hedge, pale, or plantation 
of fhmbs which inclofe them, fhould 
fhade the borders where the fruit-trees 
ftand : the leaft width of thefe flips 
fhould be twenty-five or thirty feet, 
but if they are clouble that it will be 
>et better, the flips will be more ufe- 
ful, and the fruit-trees will have a lar- 
ger fcope of good ground for their 
roots to run. The walls fhould be 
built about ten or twelve feet high, 
which will be a fufneient height for 
moft forts of fruit. 

The foil of this garden fhould be at 
leaft two feet deep, but if deeper it 
will be ftill better, otherwife there will 

pot 



K I T 

not be depth enough for many forts of 
efculent roots, as carrots, parfnips, 
beets, &c. which run down pretty 
deep in the ground; and raoft other ef- 
culent plants delight in a deep foil, as 
well as many plants whofe roots appear 
Short, yet if their fibres, by which they 
receive their nourishment, are traced, 
they will be found to extend to a con- 
siderable depth in the ground ; fo that 
when thefe are flopped by meeting 
with gravel, chalk, clay, &c. the plants 
will foon fhew it, by their colour and 
Stinted growth. 

In the distribution of this garden, 
next the fouth and other good afpecled 
walls, the borders Should be at leaft 
eight or ten feet broad, whereby the 
roots of the fruit-trees will have greater 
liberty than in fuch places where the 
borders are not above three or four 
feet wide ; and upon thefe borders you 
may fow many forts of early crops, 
if expofed to the fouth ; and upon 
thofe expofed to the north, you may 
have fome late crops ; but we would 
by no means advife the planting any 
fort of deep-rooting plants too near 
the fruit-trees, efpecially peafe and 
beans ; though for the advantage of 
the walls, to preferve them in winter, 
and to bring them forward in the 
fpring, gardeners in general are too 
apt to makeufe of thefe borders, which 
are near the beft afpedted walls, to the 
great prejudice of their fruit-trees; 
but for thefe purpofes it is much bet- 
ter to have fome reed hedges fixed in 
fome of the warmeft quarters, clofe to 
which you Should fow and plant early 
peafe, beans, &c. where they will thrive 
as well as if planted near a wall, and 
hereby the fruit-trees will be entirely 
freed from fuch troublefome plants. 

The walks of this garden Should be 
alfo proportioned to the fize of the 
ground, which in a fmall garden Should 
be fix feet, but in a large one the mid- 
dle walks Should be ten or twelve ; on 
each fide of the walk Should be allowed 
a border four or five feet wide between 
theefpalier and the walk, whereby the 
diftance between the twoefpaliers will 
he greater,and thofeborders, being kept 
constantly worked and manured, will 
he of great advantage to the roots of 
the trees; in thefe borders may be fown 
foms fmall fallad, or any other herbs 
which do not continue long, or root 
i*eep,fo that the ground will not be loft. 



KIT 

The walks of thefe gardens Should 
not be gravelled, for as there will be 
conftantly an occafion to wheel ma- 
nure, water, &c. upon them, they 
would foon be defaced, and rendered 
unftghtly; nor Should they belaid with 
turf, for in green walks, when they 
are wheeled upon or much trodden, 
the turf is foon destroyed, and thofe 
places where they are much ufed be- 
come very unfightly alfo ; therefore the 
beft walks for a kitchen-garden are 
thofe which are laid with a binding 
fand ; but where the foil is ftrong and 
apt to detain the wet, there Should be 
fome narrow under-ground drains 
made by the fide of the walks to carry 
off the wet, otherwife there will be 
no ufing of the walks in bad weather; 
and where the ground is wet, fome 
lime rubbifh, flints, chalk, or any fuch 
material as can be procured with the 
leaft expence, Should belaid at the bot- 
tom of them ; and if neither of thefe 
can be had, a bed of heath or furze 
Should be laid, and the coat of fand 
laid over it, by which the fand will be 
kept drier, and the walks will be found 
and good in all feafons. Thefe fand 
walks are by much the eaSieft kept of 
any, for when either weeds or mofs 
begin to grow, it is but fcuffling them 
over with a Dutch hoe in dry weather, 
and raking them over a day or two af- 
ter, and they will be as clean as when 
firft laid ; or if the walks are covered 
with the duft taken from the great 
roads, it will bind and make a firm 
walk. 

The beft figure for the quarters to 
be diipofed, is a fquare or an oblong, 
where the ground is adapted to fuch a 
figure ; otherwife they may be triangu- 
lar, or of any other Shape, which will 
beft fuit the ground. 

When the garden is laid out in the 
Shape intended, if the foil be Strong, 
and fubjedt to detain moifture, or be 
naturally wet, there Should always be 
under-ground drains made, to carry off 
the wet from every quarter of the 
garden, for otherwife molt forts of kit- 
chen plants will fuffer greatly by moif- 
ture in winter ; and if the roots of the 
fruit-trees get into the wet, they will 
never produce good fruit, fothat there 
cannot be too much care taken to let 
off all fuperfluous moisture from the 
kitchen-garden. 

In one of thofe quarters, which is 
Situated 



K I T 



K N O 



fituated neareft to the ftables, and beft 
defended from the cold winds ; or if 
either of the flips without the garden 
wall, which is well expofed to the fun, 
lies convenient, and is of a proper 
width, that fhould be preferred, for a 
place to make hot-beds for early cu- 
cumbers, melons, &c. The reafon for 
our giving the preference to one of 
thefe flips, is, firft, there will be no 
dirt or litter carried over the walks of 
the kitchen-garden in winter and 
fpring, when the weather is generally 
wet, (o that the walks will not be 
rendered unfightly ; fecondly, the view 
of the hot-beds will be excluded from 
fight ; and laftly, the convenience of 
carrying the dung into thefe flips, for 
by making of a gate in the hedge or 
pale, wide enough for a fmall cart to 
enter, it may be done with much lefs 
trouble than that of burrowing it thro' 
the garden ; and where there can be a 
flip long enough to contain a fufficient 
number of beds for two or three years, 
it will be of great ufe, becaufe by the 
fhifting of the beds annually, they 
will fuceeed much better than when 
they are continued for a number of 
years on the fame fpot of ground ; and 
as it will be abfolutely neceflary to 
fence this melon-ground round with a 
reed hedge, it may be fo contrived as 
to move away in pannels, and then 
that hedge, which was on the upper 
fide the firft year, being carried down 
to a proper diftance below that which 
was the lower hedge, and which may 
remain, there will be no occafion to 
remove more than one of the crofs 
hedges in a year ; therefore, I am per- 
fuaded, whoever will make trial of this 
method, will find it the moft eligible. 
The moft important points of general 



culture confift in well digging, keeping 
clean, and manuring the foil, and giving 
proper diftance to the trees and plants, 
according to their different growths. 
The dunghills fhould alfo be kept clear 
from weeds, for it will be to little pur- 
pofe to keep the garden clean, if this 
is not obferved } for if the feeds of 
weeds are fuffered to fcatter upon the 
dung, they will be brought into the 
garden, whereby there will be a con- 
ftant fupply of weeds yearly introdu- 
ced, to the no fmall damage of your 
plants, and a perpetual labour occafi- 
oned to extirpate them again. Ano- 
ther thing which is abfolutely neceffarjr 
to be obferved, is, to carry off all the 
refufe leaves of cabbages, the ftalks 
of beans, and haulm of peafe, as foon 
as they have done bearing, for the ill— 
fcent which moft people complain of 
in kitchen-gardens, is wholly occafi- 
oned by thefe things being fuffered to 
rot upon the ground ; therefore when 
the cabbages are cut, all the leaves 
fhould be carried out of the garden 
while they are frefh, at which time 
they may be very ufeful, for feeding of 
hogs, or other animals, and this will 
always keep the garden neat, and free 
from ill-fcents. As for all other ne- 
ceffary directions, they will be found 
in the articles of the feveral forts of 
kitchen plants, which renders it need- 
lefs to be repeated in this place. Mil- 

KNAPWEED. Bluebottle. &*./$//& /v&Q 

KNEE-HOLLY, or Knee-Holm, 
See Knee Holly. 

KNIGHTS -CROSS. Campion. 

KNOT-GRASS, [Centlnodium.] A 
kind of couch-grafs. 

KNOT-BERRIES. Blackberries, 



3 H 



l.ABDANUM, 



L. 



LAB 

LABDANUM. A refinous fub- 
ftance exuding upon the leaves of 
the cijius ladamfera Cretica jlore purpureo, 
Tourn. This> refin is faid to have been 
formerly collected from the beards of 
goats, who broufed the leaves of the 
eiftus: at prefent a kind of rake, with 
feveral ftraps or thongs of fkins fixed 
to it, is drawn lightly over the ihrub, 
fo as to take up the unftuous juice, 
■which is afterwards fcraped off with 
knives. It is rarely met with pure, 
even in the places which produce it ; 
the duft blown upon the plant by the 
wind, mingling with the tenacious 
juice. The inhabitants are alfo faid to 
mix with it a certain black fand. In 
the fhops two forts are met with : the 
beft (which is very rare) is in dark co- 
loured, almoft black maffes, of the con- 
ference ol a foft plaifter, which grows 
ftill fofter upon being handled; of a 
very agreeable fmell, and of a light 
pungent bitterifh tafte : the other fort 
h harder, not fo dark coloured, in long 
rolls coiled up : this is of a much 
weaker fmell than the firft, and has a 
large admixture of fine fand, which in 
the labdanum examined by the French 
academy, made up three-fourths of the 
mafs. Rectified fpirit of wine almoft en- 
tirely diffblves pure labdanum, leaving 
only a fmall portion of gummy matter 
which has no tafte or fmell : and hence 
this'refin may be thus excellently pu- 
rified for internal purpofes. It is an 
ufeful ingredient in the ftomachic and 
cephalic plafters of the fhops. 

LABOUR. In the management of 
a farm great regard is to be paid to the 
article of labour ; by a fyftem of ceco- 
nomy only can a farmer obtain there- 
ward of his toil, and a profit from his 
farm. This, if not reduced into the 
narrowcft poffible compafs, will, like 
a moth in a garment, deftroy every 
thing that is good. The mafter's eye 
mud fuperintend the whole, and his 
hand muft join in the execution too, if 
he would have his plans fucceed. La- 



LAB 

bourers want looking after, and the 
man who will do well without, is a 
jewel of ineftimable value. Labouron 
a farm is as various as the day of time, 
and continues from the firfl day of Ja- 
nuary to the laft day of December, 
from the rifing to the fetting fun. 

Ploughing, fowing, reaping, and 
thrashing, do not conflitute the whole 
of the hufbandman's care; ditching, 
draining, hedging, planting, hoeing, 
weeding, and abundance of others, 
come in for their fhare of attention and 
the exertion of diligence. 

As the expence of labour will be very 
different in fome counties from others, 
we would advife all farmers to employ- 
men by the piece; and it is their fault 
to employ men a fecond time, who fail 
to do well the firft. 

LABOURER. A man hired to 
work by the day or week, or employed 
by the acre, rod, pole, &c. 

LABURNUM, [Cytifus.] SeeBzAH 
Trefoil. Thefe trees are propaga- 
ted by fowing their feeds (which they 
annually produce in plenty) in March, 
on a bed of frefh earth, covering them 
about half an inch thick ; and in four 
or five weeks, the plants will appear 
above ground, when fome gentle wa- 
terings in dry weather will much pro- 
mote their growth. 

The following February or March, 
remove them from the feed-bed to the 
nurfery ; fhorten their roots, which are 
naturally carrotty, but which are not 
injured by cutting them freely when 
young; plant them in lines, two feet 
and a half diftant, and a foot afunder 
in the line; keep them clean ; dig the 
ground between the lines in autumn 
and fpring, and let them remain two 
feafons. 

From hence remove them, in Octo- 
ber or February, to another quarter : 
ftill continue to reduce the roots that 
incline downwards, and fmooth the 
extremities of the fpreading ones } 
prune off all ill-placed lateral branches, 

but 



LAC 



L A M 



but leave fome of die fmalleft at pro- 
per diftances; for this tree, making 
prodigious moots when the fide-boughs 
are all cut off, bends with its own 
weight, and is afterwards with diffi- 
culty redreffed. This being properly 
performed, plant them in lines, five 
feet diftant, and two feet afunder in 
the line; manage them as before di- 
rected, and prune them annually to 
their proper form ; in which fituation 
they may remain three or four years, as 
occafion requires, by which time they 
will produce their flowers, and make 
an agreeable appearance in whatever 
plantation they areplaced.BouTc her. 
LAC, [Lacca.~\ Improperly called 
gum lac ; a fort of wax of a red colour 
collected in the Eaft Indies, by certain 
infects, anddepofited on fticks faftened 
for this purpofe in the earth. It is 
brought over, either adhering to the 
fticks, or in fmall tranfparent grains, 
or in femitranfparent fiat cakes : the 
firfl is called ftick lac, the fecond feed 
lac, and the third fhell lac. On break- 
ing a peice of (tick lac, it appears com - 
pofed of regular cells like the honey- 
comb, with fmall corpufcles of a deep 
red colour lodged in them: thefe aie 
the young infects, and to chefe the lac 
owes its tincture, for when freed 
from them its colour is very dilute. 
The fhell and feed lacks, which do not 
exhibit any infects or cellular appear- 
ance upon breaking, are fuppofed to be 
artificial preparations of the other : the 
feed fort is faid to be the (lick lac brui- 
fed and robbed of its more foluble 
parts; and the fhell to be the feed lac, 
melted and formed into cakes. The 
ftick lac therefore is the genuine fort, 
and ought alone to be employed for 
medicinal purpofes. Thisconciete is 
of great efteem in Germany, and other 
countries for laxity and fponginefs of 
the gums, proceeding from cold, or a 
fcorbutic habit : for this ufe the lac is 
boiled in water, with the addition of a 
little allum; which promotes its folu- 
tion, or a tincture made from it with 
reclined fpirit. This tincture is alfo 
recommended internally in the fluor 
albus, and in rheumatic and fcorbutic 
diforders : it has a grateful fmeli, and 
not an unpleafant, bitterifh, aftringent, 
tafte. The principal ufe of lac among 
us is in certain mechanic arts as a co- 
louring drug, and for making fealing- 
wax. 



LACTARY. Amilkhcufeordairy. 

LACED THYME. Dodder of 
thyme. See Dodder. 

LADIES APPLE. The name of an 
apple. 

Ladies Bedstraw. See Bedjlraiv. 

Ladies Bower, [C'emettis.'j See 
Cl imbers- 

Ladies Comb, [Scandix "] Shep- 
herd's needle, fvvcet fern. Ste Fern. 

Ladies Hair. See Maiden- 
Hair. 

Ladies Mantle, [AlckemillaJ] 
This plant grows wild in many parts of 
England. The leaves are as if plaited 
or folded together, fo as to have given 
occafion to the Englifh name of the 
plant. All the parts of alchemilla dif.. 
cover to the tafte a rough glutinous 
quality; and hence may be of fervice 
in diforders proceeding from a laxity of 
the folids, and thin acrimonious ftate 
of the fluids. This herb was formerly 
much efteemed in fome female weak- 
neffes, and in fluxes of the belly ; as 
alfo for conglutinating wounds and ul- 
cers ; at prefent it is very rarely made 
ufe of. 

Ladies Seal, [Tamus.~\ Black 
Bryony. 

Ladies Smock, [Cardainine.~\ A 
plant found in meadows in many parts 
of England, with purple and white 
flowers. There are varieties with dou- 
ble flowers admitted into the gardens, 
and are propagated by parting the roots. 
in autumn. 

Ladies Thigh. The name of an 
apple. 

Ladies Traces, [Orchis. ~] Dog- 
ftones, orchis. 

LADDER TO HEAVEN. Lilly of 
the valley. 

LAIR. Pafturc. A place in which 
a horfe, &c. feeds. ,. 'c.c ta^a /< d . 

LAMB. The young fheep. Ofths 
management of lambs in fnowy wea- 
ther, we have the following obfervati- 
ons in the Farmer's Magazine, vol. c 
page 19. I have often heard it faid, 
that we fhould profit by our misfor- 
tunes ; this I have frequently done, 
particularly on the occafion I am about 
to mention. 

" I am but a young farmer, and, of 
courfe, have been, by my inexperience, 
led into many miftakes. A few years 
ago, I bought five-fcore lambs, 'with 
an intent to keep them for ftore fheep. 

I 



LAM 



LAN 



I turned them on my lands, where they 
did very well till the weather happened 
to be fnowy. 

As Icon as the fnow had covered the 
ground, I began to be alarmed lelt my 
lambs fhould be itarved, and accor- 
dingly ordered one of my men to carry 
,, / ffrOfX fome fwee t hiy, and lay it in different 
parts of the field for them to eat ; but 
in this I did very wrong, for the mow 
was not yet fo deep, but that the lambs 
could, by feraping with their feet, clear 
it away, and eet at a little grafs. This 
made them refute the hay, to which 
they took adiftafle; and as more fnow 
afterwards fell, 1 loft that year no lefs 
than thirty-eight lambs by downright 
hunger, and the reft were with great 
difficulty faved; for I was obliged to 
try many methods of teaching them to 
eat the hay. 

I drew a little twifted hay acrofs 
their mouths ; but this, though a com- 
mon method, had very little effecl. 
I then rubbed fome hay till it was foft 
and filky, putting it into their mouths, 
and holding themfhut; this indeed, 
taught a few to eat, but not many. 
At laft I was obliged to buy half a fcore 
old fheep, for which I paid a good price, 
and turn them in among my lambs. 
As the fheep eat the hay fait enough, 
the lambs foon followed the example; 
and by this means I faved above half 
my ftock. 

My over caution was theoccafion of 
my lofs ; for had I left the lambs, with- 
out giving them any hay till the fnow 
had been deep, and they had been 
pinched with hunger, they would have 
readily taken to eating of hay. 

As my lofs was considerable, it dwelt 
on my memory, and I took care never 
to make the like miftake again ; in con- 
fequence of which care, I have always 
of late years, met with great fuccefs in 
the lambs I have fince bought. 

I am fenfible, that many of your rea- 
ders will think that I might have faved 
myfelf the trouble of writing, as to 
have fent you a matter of fuch fmall 
confequence; but I hope you will be 
quite of a different opinion, as you 
cannot but befenfible, that by inferting 
fuch cautions in your ufeful work, you 
will do infinite fervice to young farm- 
ers," See Sheep. 
LAKEWEED. See Siting Ar s- 

MART. 

LAMBS LETTUCE, See Corn- 
Sallas. 



LAMENESS inCows, proceeds from 
many caufes ; from an impofthume or 
abfeefs in the foot between the claws ; j 
this is called the low, foul , or wyfpe, /7//7z//^ 

and is cured by cutting into it with a 

fharp penknife : "^afterwards drefs it 
with a little yellow bafilicon on tow, 
or with greafe and tar mixed together. 
Lamenefs fometimes proceeds from 
the cramp in the iinews and mufcles. 
For the cure, bathe the part well with 
the following embrocation twice a day. 
Take white-wine vinegar, one pint, 
fpirits offal ammoniac, four oun- 
ces, mixed ; or 
Take camphorated fpirits of wine, 
and belt wine vinegar, each equal 
parts. 
If the lamenefs proceed from an ab- 
fcefs or impolthumation in any part, 
which fhould be carefully examined 
into, when the immediate caufe can- 
not be difcovered, bathe the fwelling 
with vegeto-mineral water; if, inftead 
of difperfing, it fuppurates and comes 
to matter, let it be opened with a lan- 
cet, fleam, or fharp penknife, and then 
wafhed and kept clean by the vegeto- 
mineral water. 

When the lamenefs proceeds from 
pricks with a nail, &c. the nail fhould 
be taken out, but none of the fubftance 
removed, if it can poflibly be avoided. 
Let the part be wafhed clean with ve- 
getc-mineral water, and if occafion re- 
quire, then let it be dreffed with bafili- 
con on tow, covering the foot or part . 
injured with a cloth. 

If the part be much fwelled, a tur- 
nip poultice fhould be applied and re- 
newed occafionally. 

Cleanlinefs is a neceffary article to 
be obferved, when lame in the foot, 
therefore the feet fhould regularly be 
wafhed with water and foap or oat- 
meal. 

LAMP AS, is an excrefcence in the 
roof of the mouth, which hinders a 
liorfe from feeding, and happens ufu- 
ally to young horfes. It is cured by 
applying a hot iron made for that pur- 
pofe, and is fuccefsfully performed in 
all parts of the kingdom. There is no 
need of any caution, but only that the 
farrier do not penetrate too deep, fo as 
to fcale the thin bone that lies under 
the upper bars, for that would be at- 
tended with very troublefome and dan- 
gerous fymptoms. 
LAN-CHEAP. An ancient cufto- 
, mary 



■ ft, 



*7 *bf u Cste . 



A 






'/*/o 



'* : 



LAN 



LAN 



mary fine, either in money or cattle, 
at every alienation of land, lying; within 
fome manor, or within the liberty o i 
fome borough. 

LANSAC. The name of a pear. 

LAND. Among ploughmen, is 
that diitance or be'd between the fur- 
rows on which corn is fown, and in 
fome counties conlifts of three, four, 
five, or more turns or bouts of the 
plough. 

LAND, In agriculture, in general 
means foil capable of vegetation, whe- 
ther meadow, pallure, or arable ; the 
due management of which conflitutes 
the good farmer. The different kinds 
of land or foil are thofe which take 
their chief properties from clay, loam, 
fand, ftone, gravel and chalk. 

To improve land which cannot be 
eafily manured, a correfpondent to the 
Farmer's Magazine writes thus. " In 
mod large eftates, in hilly countries 
efpecially, there are confiderable tracts 
of land fo circumftanced, as to be out 
of the reach of the ufual methods of 
improvement. They are either too 
remote from the farm yard, or difficult 
of accefs on account of fteep hills or 
bad roads. Such lands have no chance 
of being manured with dung, marie, 
afhes, or any thing elfe, the carriage 
of which would be tedious, laborious, 
and expenfive. They are confidered 
as wafte lands, and not worth half a 
crown an acre, and are fuffeied to be 
over-run with brambles, broom, furze, 
&c. from one generation to another, 
though capable of bearing good corn, 
if proper methods were purfued to that 
intent. 

" I have at this time more than a hun- 
dred acres of land thus circumflanced, 
which ferve no other purpofe than to 
fummer a few fheep and young cattle. 
This is the ufe to which thefe lands 
have been put time immemorial, con- 
fequently I could get no more rent for 
them; but I have of late years deter- 
mined to try to improve them. 

** I cannot convey a better idea oi my 
method than by giving an account of 
the means I am now purfuing. My 
firft attempt was on fixty acres, thirty 
of which lay on the north fide of a deep 
valley, theafcent to which was fo fieep 
that it is not practicable to carry on 
any manure but on horfes backs; and 
this would be too expenfive. 

*' Thelaft tenant had left it in a woful 



plight, having, as he faid, ploughed and 
fowed as long as he could get two 
corns for one : a miferable condition 
indeed ! My next tenant told me, 
after two years trial, it was to no pur- 
pofe to low or plant it any more, un- 
lefs I would be 3t the expence of a 
good dreffing of dung upon it to im- 
prove it. This I refolved not to do, 
for I have no idea of any thing being 
an improvement, that does not pay the 
extra expence, and incieafethenet pre— 
fit for the trouble. 

" I therefore told him, as it would not 
anfwer the expence of carrying manuie 
on it, I would try another method, 
from which I promifed myfeff better 
fuccefs than he had met with from it 
hitherto. 

" The two upper fields, about eleven 
acres, had lain more than a year fince 
the laft crop was taken off; and had 
nothing growing on them but thirties, 
horfe-daiiies, and other weeds, the na- 
tural produce of the foil. 1 therefore 
fet a couple of ftrong ploughs to work 
and ploughed the two fields deep and 
well. The ploughing was feveral 
times repeated in the fpting at proper 
intervals, until the following July. 
By this time they were got toleiably 
clean, open, and in good condition. 
The foil of thefe fields was very dif- 
ferent ; fome parts were very dry, 
others wet and fpringy. The fir ft was 
a poor lean flaty ground, the latter a 
clofe tough mocry earth, with an im- 
perfect marie that held water like a 
diili. 1 had the wet ground drained as 
well as I could, and the ditches clean- 
ed, and had the earth carried on the 
flaty part at a proper time. I then 
ordered the moift field to be fown with 
rye-grafs, and the dry with trefoil and 
burner. 

" The fummer following, as fcon as 
the ci ops were pretty full blown, I 
mowed and made them into hay, which 
I flacked in a corner of my upper field. 
" The fields were then laid up till 
October, when I turned in a doren 
mares and their foals, with fome youn^ 
cow cattle to have the run of the whole 
thirty acres during the winter. I alfr> 
erected a hovel in the molt fheltered 
part of the field. A rack was put up, 
and when the grafs was grown bare, 
the rack was rilled with hay as often 
as was necelfary. 1 alfo littered the 
hovel with ftraw new and then, which 

was 



LAN 



LAN 



was cleaned out once a week, and the 
dung thrown in a heap. In this man- 
ner the cattle remained till the end of 
February. 

" Whiie this was doing, another of 
the fields was managed in the fame 
manner ; as the extent of pafture in- 
creafed, fo I increafed the number of 
cattle to be wintered on it, and at the 
end of thefecond winter there was dung 
enough to manure one of the fields. 
After lying two or three years in grafs, 
I fowed each field with black oats, and 
the yea* - following 1 fummer fallowed 
for turnips, which being fed off with 
fheep produced fucceffively good crops 
of barley, clover, and wheat, obferving 
to winter as many cattle there as I 
could. 

" Thefe thirty acres, in the condition 
I firft undertook to improve them, 
were not worth more than half a crown 
an acre, but by the above management 
they are now worth ten (hillings at 
leait ; and by a continuanceof the fame 
means are capable of itill greater im- 
provement. 

" This piece of management, though 
on a fmall fcale, (hews plainly what 
an impediment to improvement is the 
letting out lands into very large farms. 
Many large farmers have feveral hun- 
dred acres, which are coniidered as 
wafte, or moors of very little value, 
only fit for young cattle to run upon ; 
but if an eltateof a thoufand pounds a 
year were divided into ten farms, it 
would lie very practicable to make fif- 
teen hundred pounds a year of it. 

ft The kind of management I have 
defgrjbed comes the neareft to dividing 
large farms into fmall, or middling 
fized. The improvement confifls in 
every part being perfectly occupied, 
and the produce fpent on the lands on 
which they grow. This is never done 
or aimed at by a farmer who occupies 
two or three thoufand acres of land. 
He will not be attentive to the im- 
provement of that part of the farm 
which lies feveral miles diftant from 
home, when he has lands contiguous to 
his yard, on which he can lay all his 
manute at a fmall expence, and to 
manure the other would be a very hea- 
vy one. This is not all: the extra 
expence of tillage will be equally hea- 
vy, as his men and horfes have fo far 
to go, to and from work, that it takes 
up much of their time."' 



Another correfpondent in the Far- 
mer's Magazine gives the following 
method 

Of laying Land down to Grafs. I 
think nothing is of greater importance 
to hufbandmen, than a neat and judici- 
ous method of laying land down to 
grafs; yet in a general light, notwith- 
standing the numerous modern im- 
provements, there is no kind of bufi- 
nefs worfe executed. It is a misfor- 
tune to be lamented, that the genera- 
lity of farmers are (trangers to, or un- 
acquainted with, the nature of plants ; 
while prejudice, theever baneful parent 
of error, has fuch powerful effect on 
fome men's minds, that it is fcarce 
poffible to lead them out of the beaten 
track, however erroneous, which per- 
haps their anceftors have purfued. To 
thofe people who love improvements, 
it mult be very unpleafing to fee land 
that is known to be in its nature good, 
laying for a long feries of years (as is 
often the cafe) almoft bare and ufe- 
lefs, after having been fown down with 
grafs feeds. Indeed, oftentimes, the 
primary caufes of thefe unpleafing, but 
more unprofitable fields, proceeds 
from the land having continued too 
long in tillage, and not having had a 
proper rotation of meliorating crops, 
but exhaufted, or worn out of heart, 
by that pernicious and ever to be con- 
demned method, of taking two, or as 
I have in feme places feen practifed, 
three fucceffive crops of white corn. 
When this has been adopted, the inju- 
dicious method of managing grafs feed 
I am lamenting, is only a fecondary 
ciufe of theevil complained of, yet cer- 
tainly produces very ill effects. I have 
heard many people boaft of their land 
having continued 80 or 100 years in 
tillage, and with the aid of manure, 
fay, they will grow corn yet ! even the 
la ft winter, a gentleman mewed me a 
large field of his, which he boaftingly 
averred had been under tillage 200 
years. But how abfurd is fuch a me- 
thod of management as this ? if you 
have a poor labourer, who has ever 
fo ftrong a conftitution. yet by fuccef- 
five toilfome days and rciilefs nights, 
if he be ever fo well fed, you may ea- 
fily break that conftitution, and lofe 
the man ; but give him proper inter- 
vals of reft, and though his toil be fe- 
vere, he may prove ufefol even to old 

age. 



LAN 



LAN 



age. Many people crop their moor- 
land allotted to them bjl divifions, fo 
lor.g as it will grow a ftraw, not 
timely dreading the effects that muft 
inevitably follow when laid down to 
grafs. It is very common to fow upon 
land for continuar.ee five or fix pounds 
of red clover, with about ten bufhels of 
hay-feeds per acre; wnile, to my cer- 
tain knowledge, a great part of the lat- 
ter are often nothing but annuals, the 
perfon not knowing the difadvantage 
attending them, and the above quanti- 
ties the only grafTes fown. Now the 
red clover itfelf, being a biennial plant, 
(i. e. of two years duration) and fo 
great a quantity of it fown, accounts 
for the land looking well the firft and 
fecond year after fewing ; and, to 
many people's aftcnifhment, after that 
period, rapidly declining, till either 
great quantities of dung, which is ex- 
penfive, or a long feries of years, 
equally fo, caufe it to be ftocked with 
natural graffes. It muftfurely then be 
wrong, when land is defigned to lay in 
grafs for continuance, to fow any kind 
of annual or biennial plants; for 
though they may flourifh the firft and 
fecond years, if the land be in good 
heart and fine tilth, yet, as thsy are of 
fhort duration, they certainly, « hen 
sown, will exclude or ftop the growth 
of the perennials, which are, in this 



cafe, the only proper grafTes to be 
fown. Every hufbandman, undoubt- 
edly, ought to fuit his graffes to the 
nature of his foil; and nothing can be 
a furer criterion in this refpecl, than 
ohferving what graffes grow fpontane- 
oufly on the fides or corners of his til- 
lage fields in the. greater! perfection. 
Thefe, one may reft affured, are pecu- 
liar to the foil, and the feeds of fuch 
kinds fown will anfwer beft. Some 
regard ought to be had to this circum- 
ftance, viz. whether the land be chiefly 
defigned for meadow or pafture ; if for 
meadow, the farmer mould appropriate 
fuch plants as will be neareft in perfec- 
tionttegether : if for pafture, a fucceffion 
of graffes. To this pofition it may be 
objected, that few hufbandmen are fuf- 
ficiently acquainted with the nature,&c. 
of plants, yet that difficulty might in 
time begreatly obviated. If among other 
methods, a little book were publifhed, 
foas to be purchafed at alow rate, ha- 
ving all the moft ufeful plants engra- 
ven thereon, and coloured from nature, 
with a compendious table, fomething 
like the following, wherein, at one 
view, the farmer might fee the colour, 
form, nature, and duration of the 
plants, with the foil they refpe&ively 
fuit beft, he could be under no diffi- 
culty of appropriating proper feeds to 
his land. 



Names of 
the Plants 

Hop Trefoil 
Red ditto 

White ditto 

Lotus 
Meadow Poa 
Lucerne 



Soil that 
fuits. 

moft kinds 

ditto 

fand, gravel 
or loam 

dry foil 

moft kinds 

moift 



Ripe. 


Colour of 


What 


Month of 






kind. 


flowering 


June Scjuly 


yellow 


perennial 


May&June 


ditto 


purple 


biennial 


ditto 


ditto 


white 


perennial 


ditto 


Aug'ift 


yellow 


perennial 


June Scjuly 


ditto 


wh. br. 


ditto 


ditto 


j«Jy 


purple 


perennial 


June i 



Native of 



Brit, but feed 
from Holland 

ditto 

Britain 
ditto 
Medea 



Broad-Caft, 
or Drill. 

broad-caft 
ditto 

ditto 

ditto 
ditto 
drill. 



" Numbers of people, particularly 
authors on hufbandry, have affigned 
an invariable quantity of grafs feeds 
to be fown upon an acre of land, not 
insinuating that different foils not only 
require different graffes, but according 
to circumltances, a very great diffe- 
rence in the quantity. Lord Kaimes 
advifes jolb. of white clover to be 
fown upon an acre; "but, (fays his 
Lordfhip) for immediate paftures, I 

Vot I, 



would advife xolb. of white clover, c 
of yeilow, 2 of ribwort, and iz ofrye- 
grafs." Now Mr. Young as warmly 
recommends iolb. of white clover, 10 
of burner, and lo of rye grafs, with a 
little faintfoin. Indeed, all the authors 
I have perufed vary in this moft ma-' 
terial circumttance. 

" Hence, without fome better guide 
than univerfal authorfhip, it is appa- 
rent one may eafily be led into errors, 
3 I Each 



LAN 



LAN 



Each author, undoubtedly, fuppofes 
his method a good one; and admitting 
this as a fa£t tor a particular place, it 
can only be fo in a partial, net a gene- 
ral light. When various grafs feeds, 
and various quantities, arefown under 
different methods of culture, and upon 
different foils, and the refult of the ex- 
periments laid before the public, it 
muft be an excellent guide to the far- 
mer, who then need not fubmit to the 
operation of blind chance, but reft on 
that more folid and fure bans the teft 
of experiment. 

" To afTign then a certain quantity 
of feeds for all kinds of land, muft cer- 
tainly be an erroneous rule, as daily 
experience, the moft infallible guide, 
militates againft it : but I think it may 
be advanced thus far, that red clover 
fovvn on old or poor clayey foils, in- 
ftead of an oat crop, (which I deem on 
fuch foils the moft impoverifhing) or 
on light foil upon barley, will feldom 
fail, with good management, if it lies 
in a proper fituation, and mixed with a 
little rye grafs and hop trefoil, and cut 
green, will be exceedingly ferviceable 
for foiling draught horfes, Sec. Clover 
is not of an impoverifhing nature, as 
fo me people ailed ge it is; but one of 
the beft improvers of fuch foils as I 
am defcribing ever yet difcovered. It 
derives its principal fupport from the 
under ftratum. Lucerne and faint- 
foin are very excellent graffes for the 
foils they fuit; but as they are too 
much confined to local circumftances, 
prove not fo generally ufeful as clover. 
"When red clover is defigned for a fingle 
crop or two, and then the lay ploughed 
up, it is exceedingly beneficial to light 
lands, as it confolidates the earth, and 
tends much to the production of a 
good wheat crop: and on clayey foils, 
particularly when depaftured, is for the 
fame end advantageous. I have often 
obferved, that upon fuch kind of foils, 
when the lay is broken up, the crop of 
wheat will be always in proportion to 
the nu mber and goodnefs of the plough- 
ings, the more the better ; but reverfely 
for light foils. White clover is rather 
more delicate than the red, but will, 
like it, anfwer on moft kinds of foil ; 
its chief ufe is for paftures. It has a 
repent ftem, and, being a perennial, 
makes it very valuable; butunlefsfor 
feed, it mould always be fown with 
other graffes peculiar to the foil. I 



love to fow, for continuance, a good 
quantity of this grafs, but that varies 
according to the ufe intended, the mode 
of culture, and the nature of the foil. 

" Several peifons, accounted intelli- 
gent hufbandmen, fow their graffes for 
continuance upon a fummer fallow; 
but I think, unlefs it be old exhaufted 
tillage, it has two difadvantages, viz. 
lofing a crop of corn, and being liable 
to be out-grown by weeds. Indeed, 
upon old tillage, the method is a good 
one, as it is not like frefh land fo prone 
to grow weeds ; nor can it be expedted 
that fuch land can produce fo rich a 
crop of corn, as to make the farmer 
more anxious about it than his crop of 
grafs. It is a good way to fow the 
grafs-feed, if fandy, gravelly, or loamy 
land, upon barley ; but by all means a 
light feed of barley fhould be fown. If 
clayey foil, upon beans or wheat ; the 
fame rule to be obferved in regard to 
feed. I have known 50 bufhels per 
acre, Winchefter, produced from a 
Winchefterbufhel of barley, befides an 
amazing fine fhew of grafs. In all 
thefe cafes manure is undoubtedly re- 
quifite, and the different forts and me- 
thods of laying it upon the land are 
numerous; but after having a proper 
manure for the foil, the queftion re- 
mains, whether it fhould be laid in or 
upon theland; and from what I have 
feen of the operation of manure, it is 
a good way, if the land has been ex- 
haufted, to plough it in before the feeds 
are fown, and timely give it a top dref- 
fing afterward, but if in good heart, 
to lay it upon the furface the firft win- 
ter after fowing. There are many ex- 
ceeding ufeful graffes that will grow on 
almoft all kinds of foil, fuch as the 
Lotus, the great meadow Poa, crefted 
Dogftail, &c. but are not to be purcha- 
fed in quantities in the north of Eng- 
land, which is a great pity. If thefe, 
and feveral other perennials, were col- 
lected, and fown feparately for the pro- 
duction of feed, the expence would 
foon be defrayed to the grower, and he 
would ftill deferve the thanks of the 
public. In fa<5t, fo great is the bene- 
fit derived not only to individuals, but 
the community at large, from the im- 
provement of land, that every nerve 
ought to be (trained to abolifh thefe 
pernicious practices of continuing it 
too long in tillage, and ruining it by 
fucceffive exhaulting crops. It is felf- 
evident 



L A R 



L A R 



evident they are too often the fources 
of the tenant's ruin, and the landlord's 
lofs." 5«Clay, Sand, Gravel- 
ly Soils, Manure, !zc. 

LARCH TREE, [Larix.] To pro- 
pagate the larch tree, gather the cones 
in the month of March or April, and 
fpread them in a dry covered place, 
till the weather become warm, in May 
or June, when they ought to be expo- 
fed inglafs cafes at the bottom of win- 
dows fronting the fouth, or any other 
way moft convenient, fo as to receive 
the warmeft influence of the fun: 
This mtift be repeated (taking them 
into a warm place every evening before 
the dews fall) for feveral weeks, when 
the cones will open, and many of the 
beft feeds come out, by making them 
in a wire fieve; but as all of them will 
not, therefore fpltt the cones afunder, 
by driving a fmall piece of iharp iron 
through the center, from the bottom 
to the top of them : let thefe be again 
expofed to the fun for a few days, when 
many more feeds will fhake out, and 
all that is good of them feparate from 
the hufk, or be eafily picked off with 
the point of a knife. 

Though the feeds of thefe trees in 
the cone are good for four or five years, 
yet, when diverted of that, they lofe 
their growing quality in a few months ; 
therefore, as foon as they are got out, 
let them be mixed with fine dry fand, 
and preferved in bags till the feafon of 
lowing. 

In the beginning of March, or as 
foon after as the weather will permit, 
having prepared a fhady border, expo- 
fed only to the morning fun, of loofe, 
mellow, rich ground, low your feeds 
very thin in beds three feet and a half 
broad, with alleys of eighteen inches; 
clap the feeds gently into the bed with 
the back of a fpade, fo that by making 
it fmooth and level, it may receive an 
equal covering, and lift over them not 
more than a quarter of an inch of fine 
compoft earth, mixed with one-fourth 
part of fea fand, or if that cannot be 
had, the fineft pit-fand you can pro- 
cure. If the weather be dry, and not 
frofty, in a fortnight after fowing, give 
them gentle waterings in the evening 
of every fourth or fifth day, and in fix 
weeks they will begin to appear above 
ground. As thefe plants come up with 
the feeds on their top, which the birds 
are very fond of, care rrjult be taken to 



guard them from thofe enemies, wh© 
will otherways deftroy all or moft of 
them, but which may eafily be pre- 
vented, by driving a few forked flakes 
round the beds, and throwing a net or 
other thin covering over them. The 
plants being fairly above ground, muft 
now be refreshed with a little water 
every fecond or third night, for three 
weeks, when it does not rain: But 
this mufl be given with care, and as 
lightly as poffible, with a watering- 
pot that has fmall holes in the rofe of 
it; for thefe plants, tho* afterwards 
amongft the hardieft trees, are, in their 
infant Aate, very delicate ; and heed- 
lefsly dafhing on the water from a 
coarfe watering-pot, would deftroy 
great numbers of them. The water- 
ings, as direfted after the feeds appear, 
mult be continued, tho' only once in 
ten or twelve days, increafing the quan- 
tity when the weather is hotter than 
ufual, till the end of Auguft. 

The weeds, at their firlt appearance, 
mult be carefully picked out, as other- 
ways, in a few days, it will be impofli- 
ble to do it without bringing many of 
the plants along with them. 

It may probably be objected, byfuch 
as make no diltinction in the quality 
of plants, that we have directed unnecef- 
fary trouble and expence in the culture 
of this hardy tree, which is now raifed 
in fuch abundance with lefs ceremony : 
to which we fhall only anfwer, that, 
in point of expence, this method is 
much the cheapen, as one pound of 
feed will produce more than ten pounds 
in the common wafieful way it is treat- 
ed ; and, what is yet of much higher 
importance, one thoufand plants, thus 
cultivated, are of more real value than 
ten thoufand, fuch as are ufually pro- 
cured from ignorant nurferymen. 

The end of March, or beginning of 
April following, thefe plants may be 
removed from the feed-bed to the nur- 
fery ; and their roots being fhortened, 
laid in rows, about fifteen inches di- 
ftant, and fix or feven inches afunder 
in the row, watering them at planting, 
which may be continued once a week, 
in dry weather, for five or fix weeks, 
when they will be part danger; and 
here they ought only to continue one 
feafon. „ 

At the fame time the fucceeding 

year, remove them to another nurfery, 

but now be fparing of their roots^ 

3 I % taking 



L A R 



L A R 



taking away only fuch as crofs each 
other, with fame of the ftraggling hairy 
fibres, and fmoothing the extremity 
of the long ones; plant them in rows, 
at three feet diftance, and fifteen or fix- 
teen inches in the row; water them 
when planted, keep them clear of weeds 
during the fummer, dig the ground be- 
tween the rows in autumn and fpring, 
and in this fituation, let them remain 
two years. ' 

By this time, in an ordinary foil, 
the trees will be from five to fix feet 
high, and of a proper fize to tranfplant 
in large quantities, and in expofed fi- 
tuations, on meagre hungry ground ; 
but where beauty and fhelter are im- 
mediately required in plantations near 
the houfe, provificn ought to be made 
of larger plants: therefore, for this, or 
fimilar purpofes, let fuch a quantity of 
thefe trees as may probably be wanted, 
be removed to another nurfery, and 
planted at the diftance of eight feet by 
fix, Mill being fparing of the roots, 
which do not, like many other foreft- 
trees, admit of being much reduced or 
wounded ; particularly, when large, 
let them be plentifully watered at re- 
moval, dig the ground about them as 
before mentioned, and here let them 
remain three years. 

Thefe trees will now be from ten to 
twelve feet high, and of a very proper 
fize to remove for ornament, fhade, 
and fhelter, where meant to remain for 
good, which may be accomplifhed 
without any great labour or expence. 
The plants, thus far advanced, fhould 
be removed earlier in the fpring than 
has been directed for the younger ones, 
which in ordinary temperate feafons, 
may be befi performed about the end 
of February, or early in March. At 
this time raifethem carefully, without 
injuring any of theprincipal roots, and 
only fmooth the extremities of the 
fmall ones with a fharp knife, letting 
as much of the earth as poffible adhere 
to them; pour in a large watering pot 
of water into the pit before the tree is 
placed in it, another after the roots are 
half covered, and a third after all the 
earth is properly gathered about it. 
If the feafon bemoiit, thefe plants will 
require no farther trouble ; but in cafe 
of long continued hot and dry wea- 
ther, they ought to be watered once a 
fortnight in thin dry foil, 01 every third 
week where it is deep and found, and 



this repeated two, three, or four times* 
more or lefs, as the weather requires it; 
but in giving them water, do not pour 
it too clofe on the trunk of the tree, 
but make a drill round it with the hoe, 
about a foot from it, into which pour 
the water gently, and draw the earth 
again over it when the water has foak- 
ed in. 

The Larch tree fhould never be pru* 
ned of a fingle branch till it is at Ieaft 
fifteen or fixteen feet high : it is a no- 
ble and valuable plant; the bright red 
bloffoms it produces in thefpring, are 
both beautiful and fragrant, and the 
proper culture of it claims our parti- 
cular attention, for many reafons. 
It is a native of the Alpine and Pyre- 
nean mountains, and loves an elevated 
fituation : it will become a ftately tree 
in the pooreft hungry fand and gravel, 
and on the higheft and bleakeft hills, 
where there is but a few inches of foil J 
in fhort, it rejects no quality of earth 
that is dry, hut in wetlands it will 
not fucceed. — Boutcher. 

LARKSPUR, [Delphinium.'] The 
fpecies are, i. Unbranched annual 
Larkfpur with varieties. 2. Branched 
annual Larkfpur. 3. Tall perennial 
Bee Larkfpur. 4. Dwarf perennial 
Bee Larkfpur. 

Of thefe four fpecies the two firft 
and varieties are univerfaily annual, 
but the third and fourth are perennial 
in root and ftalk, which rife in fpring, 
and decay in autumn. 

The names of Larkfpur and Bee 
Larkfpur are derived from the rcfem- 
blance of the tail of the corolla to the 
fpurof a lark's foot, and from thenec- 
tarium of the perennial forts to a bee. 

The flowers of ail the forts are com- 
pofed of five unequal petals, one at 
top, two fide-ways, and two at bot- 
tom, and a central nectarium; they 
are moderately large, numerous, and 
moftly collected into erect fpikes, and 
are very confpicuous and ornamental. 

All the forts are very ornamental 
furniture for the borders and other" 
compartments of the pleafu re-ground, 
and are fo hardy, that they profper 
in any common foil and expofurC, and 
all the forts are raifed abundantly from 
feed in the full ground. 

The two annual forts and varieties 

are raifed from feed fowed annually in 

autvmn, i. e. September or October, 

or early in the fpring, in patches, in the 

places 



LAR 



LAS 



places where the plants are to flower ; 
for they do not fucceed by tranf- 
plantation ; obferving, that thofe of 
the autumn fowing grow ftronger, 
flower earlier, and the flowers are ge- 
nerally larger and more durable, than 
the fpring-fown plants. It is alfo 
however proper to fow fome in fpring, 
in February or March, to continue a 
longer fuccefiion of bloom. The me- 
thod of fowing them is, dig with a 
trowel fmall patches about nine inches 
diameter in different parts of the bor- 
ders, towards the middle,or in the fronts 
of the fhrubbery clumps ; in each patch 
fow eight, ten, or twelve feeds, a quar- 
ter of an inch deep; and when the 
plants are an inch or two high, thin 
thofe of the unbranched forts to about 
fix or eight in each patch, and of the 
branched kinds, to three or four in 
each place, which is all the culture 
they require, and in which order of 
cultivation they will make a fine ap- 
pearance. 

But when intended to have a grand 
fliew of them in beds by themfelves, 
they are commonly fowed in drills, 
forming the drills lengthways, the beds 
a foot afunder, and half an inch deep, 
fo fcatter the feeds thinly along the 
drills, and rake the earth over them 
evenly; but the unbranched kinds are 
the belt adapted for this mode ci cul- 
ture. 

Or they maybe fowed broad -caft on 
the furface of the bed, and raked in, 
and when the plants are an inch or 
two high, thin them by hand or hoe, 
to three or four inches diftance, but 
the branched kinds to treble that diC 
tance. 

To preferve the varieties of thefe 
two annual fpecies from degeneration, 
ail thofe of bad colours, and that are 
very Atjgle, fhould be pulled out as 
foon as they fhew bloom enough to dis- 
cover their properties: for their farina 
would impregnate the fine forts, and 
caufe a degeneracy. 

The perennial forts. — Thefe are alfo 
raifed plentifully from feeds fown in 
autumn or fpring, in a bed or border 
of common earth, fcrtrinfplantation. 
Sow them on the furface, and rake 
them in, and when the plants come 
up, hand-veed them occalionally, and 
thin them to three or four inches dif- 
tance, to remain till October or No- 
vember; then plant them out where 



they are to remain to flower: their 
roots will endure many years, increafe 
in fize, and the larger they are, the 
greater number of flower-flalks they 
produce, fo as to exhibit a large fhew 
of bloom. — Maive. 

LASERWORT, [Lafcrpirium.] 
There are feveral fpecies of this plane 
which grow naturally in the South of 
France, Italy and Germany, but are 
feldom cultivated in our gardens, yet 
if defired may eafily be propagated by 
fowing the feeds in the fpring, keeping 
them clear of weeds, and tranfplanting 
them in autumn. 

LASK. Loofenefs, flux, lax, fcour* 
ing. Thecaufes of this may proceed, i. 
From'a preceding coftivenefs, rendering 
the excrements putrid, fharp, and cor- 
rofive. 2. Frcm a want of digertion, 
which may be known by the dung be- 
ing mixed with bits of undigefted hay 
and flimy matter. 3. From fome of 
the ether fecretions being obftrufted, 
as fweat, urine, &c. for when the ex- 
crementitious parts of the blood have 
not a free vent through the common 
paflages, they are driven in a more 
than ordinary quantity into the aper- 
tures of the guts, but particularly into 
the gall-pipe and pancreatick duc"l ; 
fo that they may be of different colour 
and confiftency, according to the pre- 
dominancy of the juices that flow into 
them. When molt of it is derived 
from the inteftinal glands, the matter 
will be clear and watery, or clear and 
glaffy, not unlike that which Solleyfell 
obferves in his third kind of cholick; 
but when it proceed) moftly from the 
gall-pipe and pancreatick duel, it will 
then be tinftured with a yellowifh co- 
lour; and if there happens to be a very 
great quantity of the gall difcharged 
with the excrements, whatever is 
voided from the fundament muft of 
confequence be of a deep reddifh co- 
lour, and is the fame which the above- 
mentioned author terms the red gripes, 
which conllitutcs his fixth kind of 
cholick. 

Laftly, a lax pr fcouring fometimes 
happens from vifcous flimy matter 
hindering the chyle from entering into 
the lacleal or milky veffels ; and in this 
cafe the excrements are ufually of a 
pale light complexion, as they confift 
chiefly of chyle. 

But all thefe are only different fpecies 
of a diarrhoea ; and when the fcouring 

is 



LAS 



LAS 



ts large, as it happens to fome full-bo-, 
died young horfes, a white greafy mat- 
ter like fat comes away in the dung, 
and this is what farriers call molten 
greafe, which is of the fame nature 
with the greafy diarrhcea, which fome- 
times happens to men of grofs habits 
as well as to horfes, aid feems to be 
occafioned when the glands of the in- 
teftines are more than ordinarily open- 
ed, whereby that matter is evacuated 
from the blood into the guts, which 
fhould otherwife be depofited among 
the fat. 

But in order to thecure, it ought to 
be obferved, that in all thofe fcoui ings 
that are of the firft kind, and are only 
the critical difcharges of fome difeafe ; 
there are feldom or never any bad acci- 
dents attending them, unlefs thedifeafe 
has been of fucli continuance as to 
wafte and attenuate the body; and 
therefore when the ficknefs abates by 
any fuch difcharge, the belt way is not 
to beoverhafty to ftop it, but it ought 
rather to be encouraged when it proves 
imperfeft; and that muft be done by 
moderately purging. But becaufe all 
difcharges that proceed from the in- 
teftines may degenerate into the wor- 
fer fort, care ought to be taken not to 
let it run on too long, but it may be 
flopped by the methods hereafter laid 
down for the cure of the other fpecies 
of diarrhcea ; we fhall therefore pro- 
ceed to the next kind, where a horfe 
lofes his appetite ; and when the want 
of digeftion is manifeft from an imper- 
fect communication of the dung, that 
is, when fome part of the food comes 
away whole as it is eaten. 

In this cafe all thofe things that we 
have already laid down for ftrenthen- 
ing the ftomach are to be ufed, for 
which purpofe we alfo recommend the 
ufe of diapente, but it is not one dofe 
that will anfwer the end, for it ought 
to be repeated every day, and fo muft 
any other ftomachick medicine before 
any extraordinary effect can poffibly 
be wrought. 

And becaufe this difeafe is both in 
the ftomach and guts, the following 
clyfter may be given as foon as you 
perceive him begin to recover his ap- 
petite, unlefs the loofenefs begins alfo 
to abate with the other fymptoms, and 
in that cafe it may be let alone. 

•' Take of red rofe leaves two hand- 
fuls, the roots of gentian and 



round birthwort, of each one 
ounce, gallangal half an ounce, 
bay-berries, annifeeds, and fennel 
feeds, of each two drams. Let 
the roots, and other hard ingredi- 
ents, be bruifed ; afterwards boil 
the whole in three quarts of wa- 
ter for the fpace of half an hour ; 
or let them be infufed four hours 
in boiling water; then pour off 
the liquor, anddiffolve in it three 
ounces of the oil in which rue has 
been boiled, and one ounce of 
mithridate; which muft be in- 
jected into the horfe' s fundament 
luke-warm." 
This may be repeated once or twice; 
but if the loofenefs ftill continues, and 
the horfe grows weak, it is a very bad 
fign, efpecially if he refufes to feed. 

The next kind is that where the ex- 
crements are tinged yellow, or of a deep 
reddifh colour, proceeding as we have 
obferved, from a too great profufion of 
the gall and pancreatick juice, -&c. 

In this a horfe may be firft of all 
purged with the following drench: 
" Take red rofe leaves two handfuls, 
Monk's rhubarb four ounces, 
Turkey rhubarb three ounces. 
Let thefe be fliced and boiled with 
the rofe leaves, in three pints of 
water, for the fpace of an hour; 
and in the (trained decoftion dif- 
folve an ounce and a half of diaf- 
cordium." Or this: 
" Take of the beft rhubarb in pow« 
der, two ounces, cream of tartar 
oneounce, diaphoretick antimony 
half an ounce; let this be given 
in a pint of red wine." 
After purging has been once or twice 
repeated, thofe medicines which pro- 
mote fweat, and the other fecretions, 
are to be ufed, as they make a revulfi- 
on, and confequently leffen the difchar- 
ges by dung, wherefore we recommend 
diafcordium, mithridate, and Venice- 
treacle, or London-treacle, which may 
be exhibited in the following manner: 
" Take treacle water one pint, Ve- 
nice treacle or mithridate two 
ounces. Let the mixture be well 
ftirred about, and given through 
a horn.'" Or this: 
" Take of diafcordium three ounces, 
diffolve it in a decoftion of red-rofe 
leaves and rue, and give it through 
a horn ; two ounces of Venice- 
treacle or mithridate, or three 
ounces 



LAS 



LAS 



ounces of London treacle, may be 
given in the fame manner, taking 
care at the fame time to keep the 
horfe well cloathed, and to have 
him often combed and rubbed to 
open the pores, the better to pro- 
mote fweat and infenfible per- 
foration." 
The following drench may alfo be 
given with good fuccefs, to aftringe and 
dry up the ftomach and bowels, &c. 

" Take a decoction of red rofe leaves 
and plantain one quart, treacle- 
water half a pint, Armenian bole 
an ounce. Diffolve in the mix- 
ture two ounces of diafcordium, 
and of roch allum fix drams." 

This muft be repeated two or three 
days fucceffively, and unlefs the fcour- 
ing be very violent, it will certainly 
put a ftop to it. 

But the farrier is to obferve, that if 
a horfe has a fever upon him, which 
does not diminifh, butincreafes with 
the loofenefs; thofe things which aft 
more immediately upon the bowels are 
-then to be made ufe of; therefore the 
following clyftermay be injected. 
" Take of guaiacum half a pound, 
faffafras four ounces; boil them 
in four quarts of fmith's water 
wherein they quench their hot 
irons, until one half of the water 
is confumed ; then add to the de- 
coction red rofe leaves, the tops 
or leaves of briar, and the leaves 
of bramble, of each a handful ; or 
inftead of thefe two handfuls of 
plantain; and when it has boiled 
a quarter of an hour longer, take 
it from the fire, and in the drain- 
ed decoction diffolve four ounces 
of diafcordium without honey, 
and opium half a dram. 
Or this: 
" Take henbane and white poppy- 
feed, of each four ounces, red rofe 
leaves two handfuls, pomegranate 
bark two ounces. Boil them in 
two quarts of fmith's forge water 
to three pints, diffolve in it four 
ounces of diafcordium, or three 
ounces of mithridate or Venice- 
treacle, and half adram of opium." 
Or the following may be ufed in 
hafte, or for a horfe of fmall value. 
" Take a quart of the aforefaid 
water, warm it over the fire, and 
diffolve in it two ounces of diaf- 



cordium, and the like quantity o( 
roch-allum," 
Thefe clyfters are always to be made 
in a leffer quantity than thofe that are 
purging; and the horfe's tail to be 
kept clofe to his tuel, that he may re- 
tain them as long as poffible ; and as 
foon as he flings out the firft, which per- 
haps may not be in the fpace of twelve 
hours, it mult be followed with ano- 
ther, and fo on till the loofenefs is quite 
flopped, which may eafily be done 
by the help of thefe clyfters, unlefs his 
Itrength be quite waited, and that he 
has loft all fenfation in his bowels. 

We come now to the cure of the laft 
fort of fcouring which we mentioned, 
to wit, when the chyle is difcharged 
with the excrements ; and as this in- 
difpofition proceeds from flimy matter 
obltructing the paffages into the lacteal 
veffels, the propereft method is by pur- 
ging, for which purpofe we recommend 
the following : 

" Take Epfom falts fix ounces, 
cream of tartar two ounces, dif- 
folve them in a gallon of water, 
and give the whole through a horn 
at feveral times." 
Let fait of tartar and fal prunella be alfo 
diffolved in his common drink, for ail 
thofe diluters are the moft proper to 
wafh off that vifcid matter which ad- 
heres fo clofely to the guts, and hinders 
the chyle from entering into its proper 
veffels, efpecially when they are ufed 
plentifully ; but if this fort of flux 
fhould proceed from a ftrumous ob- 
ftruction. as it fometimes happens to 
human bodies, it would prove incura- 
ble. 

As to that which the farriers call 
molten greafe, it being for the moft 
part the concomitant of every large 
fcouring, that fymptom generally wears 
off in the procefs of the diltemper, 
and requires no particular management 
diltinct from what has been already 
prefcribed for the third fort of loofenefs, 
viz. purging and aftringent clyfters, 
with the affiltance ot thofe things that 
are proper to promote a breathing 
through the pores; but becauie in all 
violent diforders of the guts, there is, 
for the moft part, a weaknefs in the 
ftomach alfo, it can never be amif> to 
exhibit fuch things as aie proper to 
procure a good dieeftion, at the fame 
time that oth< .1. ai are ufed to carry 
off the more urgent fymptoms ; and 
thefe 



LAV 



L A U 



thefe ought to be continued, efpecially 
to a horfe of value ; and indeed it is 
for want of fuch helps that many hor- 
fes dwindle away, or fall into other 
diftempers, after the loofenefs has in a 
great meafure been overcome. 

The food that is to be given in fuch 
diforders, fhould be the cleaned and 
belt hay, bran moiltened with claret, 
and parched barley. — Gilifcn. 

LAST, of hides, 20 dickers of 10 
flcins each. 

Last of rape feed or corn, 2 load or 
So bufhels; of pot afhes, cod, white- 
lien ings, and meal, 12 barrels ; of tar 
and pitch, 14 barrels; of flax and fea- 
thers, 17 cwt.j of gunpowder, 24 
barrels or 24001b. ; of wool, 12 facks 
or 4368 lb. j of iiock fifh, 1000 ; of 
red herrings, 20 cades. 

LATH, a iong, thin, and narrow 
flip of wood, nailed to the rafters of a 
roof or cieling, in order to fultain the 
covering 

Thefe are diftinguifhed into three 
kinds, according to the different kinds 
of wood ot which they are made, viz. 
heart of oak, fap laths, and deal laths ; 
of which the two laft are ufed for ciel- 
ings and partitions, and the firft for 
tiling only. 

Laths are alfodiflinguifhed according 
to their length, into five feet, four feet, 
and three feet laths ; though the fla- 
tute allows Jbut of two lengths, thofe 
of five, and thofe of three feet, each of 
which ought to be an inch and a half 
in breadth, and half an inch in thick- 
nefs ; but they are commonly lefs. 

Lath-Bricks, bricks much longer 
than ordinary, uftd infiead of laths, 
for drying malt ; for which purpofe 
they are extremely proper, as not be- 
ing liable to catch fire, and retaining 
the heat much longer than thofe of 
wood ; fo that a very fmall fire will 
ferve after they are once heated. 

LATHE, a word ufed in fome coun- 
ties in England, to fignify a barn. 

Lathe, A machine in which tur- 
ners fabricate their goods. 

L AV ATER A. See Tree Mallow. 

LAVENDER, [Laver.du/a.] There 
are two or three fpecies of lavender, 
the principal of which are, the fpiked 
and the narrow- leaved lavender ; the 
leaves of the former are much broader 
and fhorter than the latter. They are 
propagated by flips, the beft feafon for 
which is in March , they fhould be 



planted in a fhady fituation, or at leaft 
fhaded with mats until they have taken 
root ; after which they may be expo- 
fed to the fun 5 and when they have 
obtained ftrength, may be removed to 
the places where they are defigned to 
remain. Thefe plants will abide the 
longeft in a dry, gravelly, or (tony foil, 
in which they will endure our fevereft 
winters ; though they will grow much 
fafterin thefummer, if they are planted 
upon a rich, light, moift foil ; but 
then they are generally deftroyed in 
winter, nor are the plants half fo ftrong 
fcented, or fit for medicinal ufes, as 
thofe which grow upon the moft bar- 
ren rocky foil. 

French Lavender. See Cassi- 
don y. 

Sea La vender 5 [Limon'turn."] There 
are feveral fpecies of this plant, which 
grow naturally in feveral parts of Eng- 
land, the fouth of France, Italy, and 
the Levant, fome annual and others 
perennial; fome will bear the open 
air, and others require afiiflance from 
die hard frofts of winter. 

LAUREL, [Laurecerafus.] The 
cherry bay. The fpecies are, 1. The 
common laurel. 2. The white ilriped. 
3. The yellow ftriped. 4. The Portu- 
gal. The common laurel is propaga- 
ted by feeds or cuttings ; but the feeds 
produce the fineft trees. The feeds 
fhould be fown in the beginning of 
winter foon after the berries are ripe, 
in a fhady border well prepared, about 
an inch and a half deep. About the 
middle of April, when the feeds will 
be in a growing ftate, the weather be- 
ing dry, and not frofty, refrefh them 
with frequent gentle waterings in the 
morning ; and continue this, more or 
lefs, during the fummer months, as the 
feafon fhall require, changing the 
morning to evening's watering, as 
foon as the danger of the frofts are 
over. 

The fucceeding fpring, the ground 
being good, and the former fummer 
having been favourable, as foon as 
their buds begin tofwell, remove them 
from the feminary to thenurfery, and 
lay them with a fpade in lines two 
feet afunder & 9 or 10 inch, in the line, 
the fame depth they formerly flood ; 
water them at planting, and if you re- 
peat it three or four times at the dif- 
tance of ten or twelve days, the feafon 
being dry, it will much forward their 
growth : 



L A U 



L A U 



. growth : let the ground between the 
rows be pointed over in autumn and 
fpring, and cut away any crofs lateral 
branches during their abode here, 
whicli ought to be two years only. If 
thefe berries have been fown in poor 
land, the plants of courfe will have 
made fmall progrefs ; in that cafe, if 
they are not too thick, they may re- 
main in the feed-bed two years. 

To raifs them from cuttings, plant 
them in a fhady border of moift (not 
wet) earth, in lines two feet afunder. 
The beginning of April, or middle of 
Auguft, let the cuttings be a foot or 
fourteen inches long, one half of which 
fhould be buried in the ground ; let the 
whole leaves be rubbed off, which 
Otherways generally wither and hang 
on great part of that feafon, and from 
thence taint the plant. Here they may 
remain till the fecond April following, 
giving them the fame culture as the 
feedlings. 

The feedlings and cuttings may now 
be treated in the fame manner, and re- 
moved to another nurfery, where ha- 
ving fhortened and cut away ail ill- 
placed roots that crofs each other, and 
likewife pruned off fuperfluous bran- 
ches, carefully preferving and encoura- 
ging the principal leading flioot, plane 
them in lines four feet afunder, and 
two feet diftant in the line ; take care 
to cultivate the ground as formerly, 
and prune them annually in fuch a 
manner as will molt elevate them in 
the pyramidical form : in this nurfery 
they may continue three, or not ex- 
ceeding four years. We have fpoken 
hitherto only with regard to fuch as 
are intended for tall ftandard trees ; 
but here let it be obferved, that fuch as 
are meant for covering of walls, form- 
ing hedges, or other fuch purpofes, may 
either be applied in thefe ways from the 
former nurfery, or trained here fo as at 
once to anfwer your future defigns. 
This tree is commonly dwarfed and 
disfigured by letting it grow rough too 
long, after which they are not to be 
redrefTed or brought to a proper figure, 
being much injured by cutting their 
old wood. 

For making large plantations, thefe 
trees will now be of a competent fize; 
but if a referve is wanted for diftant 
defigns, remove them to another fpot, 
and plant them in the quincunx order, 
at fix feet afunder every way, obferving 
Voi. I. 



the former culture ; where after land- 
ing two years, they may be removed 
with fafety five or fix year3 longer. 

The two forts with itriped leaves 
may alfo be increafed by cuttings ; but 
their variegation being very faint, in 
a luxuriant foil they will foon turn 
quite plain, and ought therefore to be 
planted in a poor, hungry, dry fand or 
gravel. In order to blend their colours 
better than they naturally arc, make 
them more glaring, and of longer con- 
tinuance, remove them annually in 
poor land for five or fix years, budding 
a richly-variegated leaf on the green, 
or rather a variegated ftock, which 
will much brighten, and alfo longer 
preferve their colours, than if raifed 
from cuttings. 

The Portugal laurel will not rife to 
half the magnitude of the others, nor is 
it fo eafily reared in the pyramidical 
form, but is a beautiful and elegant 
plant, of a very chearful fhining ver- 
dure. It may be propagated either by 
feeds, layers, or cuttings, as the for- 
mer, but when young, are fomewhat 
more delicate, and will be improved 
by a higher culture, better foil, and 
more fheltered fituation for four or 
five years, after which it is abundantly 
more hardy. — Boutcher. 

Portugal Laurel. See Laurel, 
Laurel of Alexandria. Butcher's 
broom. See Appendix. 

Dwarf Laur el. See Spurge Lau- 
rel. 

Spurge Laurel, \Laureola.~\ This 
is a fmall fhrub, growing wild in fome 
of our woods. The leaves, berries, 
and bark, both of the ftalks and roots, 
have an extremely acrid, hot taile, 
which lads for a long time, burning 
and inflaming the mouth and fauces. 
Taken internally, they operate with 
great violence by ftool, and fometimes 
by vomit; fo as fcarce to be exhibited 
with any tolerable degree of fafety, un- 
lefs their virulence be previoufly aba- 
ted by boiling. 

There is a fpecies of this plant which 
forms an ornamental fhrub in the gar- 
dens blowing very early in the fpring, 
bearing peach coloured fiovvers and red 
berries, this fhrub is called Mezereon. 
They are propagated by feeds fown af- 
ter the berries are ripe, which will be 
about Auguft. There are feveral other 
fpecies, fome of which require the af- 
fiftance of the green-houfe in winter. 
3 K LAURUSTINITS, 



LAY 



LAY 



LAURUSTINUS, [<7wkj.] Thefe 
fhrubs ate propagated by laying down 
their young branches, which put out 
roots very freely ; fo that when they are 
layed in autumn, they will be well 
rooted by that time twelve months, 
when they mould betaken off from the 
old plants, and may be either planted 
where they are to remain, or into a 
nurfery to grow two years to get 
ftrength. Thebeftfeafonto tranfplant 
thefe is at Michaelmas, that they may 
get new root before winter; for as 
thefe plants begin to flower early in 
winter, it is a plain indication of their 
growing at that feafon, fo they will 
more furely fucceed than at any other 
time of the year, though they may be 
removed in the fpring with balls of 
earth to their roots, provided it be 
done before they begin to fhoot ; they 
may alfo be removed the latter end of 
July or the beginning of Auguft, if 
rain happens at that time, for after 
they have done (hooting, which is foon 
after midfummer, they will be in no 
danger, provided they are not kept out 
of the ground any time. 

Thefe plants may alfo be propagated 
by feeds, which mould be mixed with 
••earth in autumn, foon after they are 
ripe ; thefe fhould be expofed to the 
open air, and receive tiie rain in winter, 
and in the fpring they may be fown on 
a gentle hot-bed, which will bring up 
the plants ; thefe fhould remain in the 
bed till autumn, and then may be tranf- 
plaated and treated in the fame way as 
the layers. 

LAWN". A plain of meadow or pa- 

• fture, adjoining to a gentleman's feat, 

i,.\7, Arable land laid dawn to 

grai's, as clover lay, Sec. i/h*.mta//v — 

LAYERS. Many trees may be 

propagated by layers ; the ever-greens 

about Kartholomew-tide, and other 

trees about the month of February. 

This is performed by flitting the 
branches a little way, and laying them 
under the. mouid about half a fcot ; the 
ground fhould firft be made very light, 
" and after they are laid, they fhould have 
a little water given them. 

If they do not comply well in the 
laying. of them down, they mufl be 
"pegged down with a hook or two, and 
if they have taken fufficient root by the 
next winter, they mufl be cut off from 
the main plants, and planted in the fe- 
minary,as \% directed about feedlings. 



Some twiil the branch or bare tha 
rind, and if it be out of the reach of 
the ground, they faften a tub or bafket 
near the branch, which they fill 
with good mould, and lay the branch 
in it. 

This operation is thus performed : 
id. Take fome of the boughs and 
lay them into the ground about half a 
foot deep in fine frefh mould, leaving 
them with the end of the layer about a 
foot, or a foot and a half out of the 
ground, and keep them moid during 
the fummer feafon ; when they will pro- 
bably have taken root, and be fit to 
remove : and if they have not by that 
time taken root, they mufl lie longer, 
adly, Tie a piece of wire hard round 
the bark of the bough, at the place you 
intend to lay in the ground, and twift 
the ends of the wire, fo that they may 
not untie, and prick the placeabove the 
wire through the bark with an awl in 
feveral places, and then lay it into the 
ground, as before directed . 

3 d 1 y , Cut a flit upwards at a joint, 
as is pradlifed in laying of Carnations, 
which by gardeners is called tonguing 
the layers. 

4thly, Twifl the place you de- 
fign to lay in the ground like a withy, 
and lay it into the ground as directed 
in the firfl way of laying. 

5thly, Cut a place round about the 
bough (that is defigned to be laid) an 
inch or two, at the place that is moft 
convenient to lay into the ground, and 
manage it as is directed in the firft 
method of laying. 

The feafon for laying hardy trees, 
that fired their leaves, is in Odlober j 
but for fuch as are tender, in March j 
for ever-greens, June or Auguft are 
good feafons. 

Though layers may be laid at any 
time of the year, yet the feafons be- 
fore-mentioned are the moft proper, 
for the reafons following : becaufe they 
have the whole winter and fummer to 
prepare and draw root; for at thefe 
times of the year the fun has fufficient 
power on the fap of the tree to feed the 
leaf and bud ; but has not power fuf- 
ficient to make a fhoot. 

And if that fmall quantity of fap 
that does arife be hindered, as it will 
by fome of the preceding ways of lay- 
ing, the leaves and buds will gently 
crave of the layer, and by that means 
will prepare the layer to take root, or 

put 



LEA 



LEA 



jpat forth roots a Jittle to maintain It- 
felf, finding it cannot have it from the 
mother plant. 

And therefore, becaufe it wants but 
little nourishment at that time of the 
year, it is better to lay layers of trees, 
or to fet cuttings, than at other times, 
either in the winter when the fap ftirs 
but little, or in the fummer when the 
fap abounds, or in the fpring when it 
begins to rife, becaufe it is then apt to 
come too fuddenly to draw fap from 
the layer, before the layer has drawn or 
prepared for root. 

However, the fpring or fummer may 
do well for fmall plants, becaufe fuch 
plants, being but (hort-liv'd, draw root 
the quicker. 

If you would lay young trees from 
an high ftandard, the boughs of which 
cannot be bent down to the ground, 
then you muft make ufe of ozier-baf- 
kets, boxes, or pots, filled with fine 
fifted mould, mixed with a little rot- 
ten willow duft, which will keep moif- 
ture to affift the layer in taking root : 
This bafket, box, &c. muft be fet up- 
on a poft or treflel. and the bough muft 
be laid according to either of the four 
firft ways of laying; but too much 
head muft not be left on, left that be 
injured by the wind, or its own mo- 
tion rub off the tender root; and the 
fmaller the boughs are, the iefs way 
they fhould be fet out of the ground 5 
and care muft be taken to keep them 
clear from weeds. 

The harder the wood is, the better 
will the young wood take root : but if 
the wood be foft, the older boughs will 
take root the belt. 

LEAD, [Plumbum.] This is the 
heavieft of the metals except gold : it 
melts in a moderate heat, and if kept 
in fufion, is foon converted partly into 
fume and partly into afh-coloured calx 
(plumbum uflum;) this expofed to a 
ftronger fire, in fuch a manner that the 
flame may play upon its furface, be- 
comes firft yellow, and afterwards of 
a deep red, {minium or red lead ;) if in 
this procefs the fire be fuddenly raifed 
to a confiderabie height, the calx melts, 
aflumes the appearance of oil, and on 
cooling forms a foft leafy fubftance of 
a yellowifh or reddifh colour (litharge.) 
The proper menftruum of this metal is 
aqua-fortis, the vegetable acids like- 
wife difTolve it, but in a very fmall 
quantity : a quart of diitilled vinegar 



will not take up a dram ; expofed to 
the fleam of vinegar, it is by degrees 
corroded into a white powder (cerujfe) 
which is confiderably more eafy of fo- 
lution. The calces of lead difTolve, 
by heat, in expreffed oils ; thefe mix- 
tures are the bafis of feveral officinal 
plaifters and unguents. Chryftals of 
this metal made with diftilled vinegar 
(called from their fweetifh tafte, fugar 
of lead; and a tincture drawn from 
thefe and green vitriol, are likewife 
kept in the mops. 

Preparations of lead, given inter- 
nally, are fuppofed to incrafTate the 
fluids, abate inflammations, and re- 
flrain venereal defires. The fugar is a 
ftrong aftringent, and has been exhibit- 
ed as fuch with good fuccefs, in hae- 
morrhagies, the fluor albus, feminal 
gleets, &c. The tinfture is recom- 
mended for the like purpofes ; and for 
checking immoderate fweats in phthi- 
fical cafes, whence it has ufually been 
called tinBura antiphthifua. The inter- 
nal ufe of this metal is neverthelefs full 
of danger, and ought never to be ven- 
tured upon unlefs in defperate cafes, 
after other medicines have been em- 
ployed without taking effect : it often 
occasions violent cholics, and though 
it fhould not prove immediately hurt- 
ful, its ill confequences are fure though 
flow : tremors, fpafms, or lingering 
tabes, too frequently follow. 

WLead, [Minium.] Lead calci- 
ned to rednefs. 

White Lead, [Plumbum album, ceruf[a.~\ 
This is prepared by expofing lead to the 
fleam of vegetable acids till corroded 
into a white powdery fubftance. It is 
fometimes adulterated with a mixture 
of common whiting; this, if in any 
confiderabie quantity, may be eafily 
difcoveredbythefpecificlightnefsofthe 
compound; the fort called flake lead, 
is not fubject to abufe. 

Sugar ofLtAT), [Saccharum Saturni.J 
The fugar of lead is much more effica- 
cious than the foregoing preparations, 
in the feveral intentions which they are 
applied to. Some have ventured upon 
it internally, in dofes of a few grains, 
as a ltyptic, in hjemorrhagies, profufe 
colliquative fweats, feminal fluxes, the 
fluor albus, &c. nor has it failed their 
expectations. It very powerfully re- 
ftrains the difcharge ; but almoft as 
certainly as it does this, it occafions 
fymptoms of another kind, often more 
3 K * dangerous 



LEA 



LEA 



>£/-*- 



dangerous than thofe removed by it, 
and fometimes fatal. Violent pains in 
the bowels, or through the whole bo- 
dy, and obftinate conftipations, fome- 
times immediately follow, efpecially 
if the dofe has been confiderable : 
cramps, tremors, and weaknefs of the 
nerves generally fooner or later, enfue. 

Boerhaave is of opinion, that this 
preparation proves malignant only in 
fo far as its acid happens to be abfor- 
bed in the body; for in fuch cafes he 
fays, " it returns again to ceruffe, 
" which is violently poifonous." On 
this principle it would follow, that in 
habits where acidities abound, the fu- 
gar of lead would be innocent. But 
this is far from being the cafe. Lead 
and its preparations a<ft in the body 
only in fo far as they are combined with 
acid : cerufTe poiTeffes the qualities of 
the faccharum only in a low degree ; 
and either of them freed from the acid, 
have little, if any effeft at all. 

LEADWORT, [Plumbago.] There 
are tvvofpecies of this plant, one grow- 
ing in France, Italy, and Spain, and 
theothera native of theEaft and Weft- 
Indies. The former will bear the open 
air in England, if placed in a warm 
fituation, but the other requires theaf- 
fiftance of a ftove in winter. They 
are both perennials, and may be pro- 
pagated by feeds. 

LEAF. A fimple leaf is that which 
is not divided to the middle. 

A compound leaf is divided into fe- 
deral parts, each refembling a fimple 
leaf, as in liquorice, &c. 

A digitated leaf is a compound leaf 
divided into feveral parts, all of which 
meet together at the tail, as in the 
hemp, black-hellebore, &c. 

A trifoliated leaf is a digitated leaf, 
confifting of three fingers, as in the 
trefoil, &c. 

A quinquefoliated leaf is a digitated 
leaf, confifting of five fingers, as in 
the quinquefolium. 

A pennated leaf is a compound leaf 
divided into feveral parts, (each of 
which is called a lobe) placed along the 
middle rib, either alternately or by 
pairs. When the middle rib is termi- 
nated by an odd lobe, it is faid to be 
unequally pennated, as in the goat's 
rue, Sec, and equally pennated, when 
it is not terminated by an odd lobe, as 
in thecaffia; when the lobes are all 
aearly of the fame form and bignefs, it 



Is called an uniform pennated leaf, at 
in the liquorice ; when they are not fo, 
they are faid to be difform, as in the 
agrimonia, Sec. 

A winged leaf is as it were divided 
into feveral pennated leaves, as in the 
orobus, &c. 

A ramofe leaf is that which is ftill 
farther divided than the winged leaf, 
as in the ofmund royal, female fern, &c. 

An entire leaf or lobe is that which 
has no divifion on its edges, as in the 
apple tree, &c. 

A finuated leaf is that which is cut 
about the edges into feveral long feg- 
ments,as in the common mallow, &c. 

A ferrated leaf is that which is cut 
about the edges into feveral acute feg- 
ments, refembling the teeth of a faw, 
as in the nettle, &c. 

A crenated leaf is that which is cut 
about the edges into feveral obtufefeg- 
ments, as in betony, &c. 

A laciniated or jagged leaf is that 
which is cut about the edges into feve- 
ral pretty deep portions, in an irregu- 
lar manner, as in the horned poppy. 

Leaf. Is a diftemper incident to 
lambs of ten or fourteen days old. It 
is fo called becaufe they will feed com- 
monly upon oak and hawthorn leaves, 
foon after which they will reel and 
ftagger about, foaming at the mouth, 
and foon fall down and die ; there has 
yet been no certain remedy found out 
for this diforder. 

LEAKAGE. The ftate of a veffel 
that leaks, or lets water, or any other 
liquid ouzein or out. 

Leakage. In commerce, is an al- 
lowance of 12 per cent, in the cuftoms 
allowed to importers of wines for the 
wafte and damage it is fuppofed to have 
received in the paffage •. an allowance 
of two barrels in twenty-two is alfo 
made to the brewers of ale and beer, 
by the excife office. 

LEAVES. A leaf is denned to be 
a part of a plant extended into length 
and breadth in fuch a manner as to 
have one fide diftinguifhable from the 
other ; they are properly the moft ex- 
treme part of a branch, and the orna- 
ment of the twigs, and confift of a very 
glutinous matter, being furnifhed eve- 
ry where with with veins and nerves ; 
one of their offices is, to fubtilize 
and give more fpirit to the abundance 
of nourifhing fap, and to convey it to 
the little buds. 

If 



LEA 



LEA 



If the furface of leaves are altered, 
by reverting the branches of trees on 
which they grow, the plants are flop- 
ped in their growth, until the foot- 
ftalks are turned, and the leaves reco- 
ver their former pofnion. This fhews 
how neceffary it is to fupport all thofe 
weak fhoots of plants, which are na- 
turally difpofed for upright growth, 
which either twine about the neigh- 
bouring trees for fupport, or put out 
clafpers, by which they take hold of 
whatever trees or plants grow near 
them, and are thereby fupported; and 
on the contrary, how abfurd is that 
practice of tying up the fhoots of thofe 
plants which are naturally difpofed to 
trail upon the ground; in both thefe 
cafes, nature is reverted, and confe- 
quently the growth of both forts of 
plants is greatly retarded. 

This is one of the great functions for 
which the leaves of trees and plants are 
defigned ; but betides this, there are 
others of equal importance to the well- 
being of plants and fruits ; the firft is 
that of the foot-ftalks and leaves nou- 
rifhing and preparing the buds of the 
future fhoots, which are always formed 
at the bafe of thefe foot-ftalks; and 
during the continuance of the leaves in 
perfect health, thefe buds increafe in 
their magnitude, and in the deciduous 
trees, are brought to maturity before 
the foot-ftalks feparate from the buds 
in autumn ; but if by accident the 
leaves are blighted, or if the entire fur- 
face of the leaves are cut off, and the 
foot-ftalks are left remaining, the buds 
will decay for want of that proper 
nourifhment which isconveyed to them 
from the leaves ; fo that whenever trees 
are diverted of their leaves, or when 
thofe leaves are cut, or otherwife im- 
paired, though it may in either cafe 
happen when the buds may be nearly 
formed, yet if it be before the foot- 
ftalks feparate naturally from the bran- 
ches, the future fhoots will be weak- 
ened in proportion to the time when 
this is done ; therefore, from all the 
experiments which have been made in 
order to know how ferviceable the 
leaves of trees and plants are to their 
well-being, it has been found, that 
where the plants have been diverted of 
their leaves, or their leaves have been 
eaten or cut during their growth, the 
plants have been remarkably weakened 
thereby. This fhould teach us not to 



pull or cut »ff the leaves of trees or 
plants on any account, while they re- 
tain their verdure, and are in health. 

It is very evident that the blades of 
grafs, which is often mowed, will be 
rendered finer in proportion to the fre- 
quency of mowing, yet the fpecies of 
grafs is the fame with that on the rich- 
eft partures ; fo that although this may 
be a defirable thing for lawns, &c. in 
gardens, yet where regard is had to the 
produce.it fhould be avoided. 

Another principal ufe of the leaves 
is, to throw off by tranfpiration, what 
is unneceffary for the growth of the 
plants, anfwering to the difcharge made 
by fweat in animal bodies; for as 
plants receive and tranfpire much more 
in equal time, than large animals, fo 
it appears how neceffary the leaves are 
to preferve the plants in perfect health ; 
for it has been found by the moft exacl: 
calculations, made from repeated ex- 
periments, that a plant of the fun- 
flower receives and perfpires, in twen- 
ty-four hours, feventeen times more 
than a man. 

We mention a few, out of the many 
experiments which have been made by 
Monf. Bonnet, of Geneva, to prove 
that moft leaves imbibe the moifture 
of the air on their under furface, and 
not from their upper ; they are as 
follow : 

He gathered the leaves of fixteen 
forts of herbaceous plants when fully 
grown; he put feveral leaves of each 
upon the furface of water in glafs va- 
fes, fome were placed with their upper 
furface, and others with their under 
furface upon the water; thefe were 
adjufted exadtly to the furface of the 
water, with great care not to let any 
moifture reach their oppolite furfaces, 
and the fame care was taken to prevent 
their foot-ftalks from receiving any 
moifture. The glaffes in which thefe 
leaves were thus placed, were kept in 
a clofet, where the air was very tempe- 
rate; and as the water in the glaffes 
evaporated, there was from time to 
time a fupply of frefh, which was ad- 
ded with a fyringe, fo that the leaves 
were not difturbed. The leaves were 
taken from the following plants; the 
plantain, the mullein, the wake robin, 
the great mallow, the nettle, the mar- 
vel of Feru, the kidney- bean, the 
fun-flower, the cabbage, the balm, 
the cockfcomb, the purple-leaved 
amaranth 



LEA 



LEA 



amaranth, fpinach, and the fmaller 
mallow. 

Six of thefe forts he found continued 
green a long time, and thefe were with 
different furfaces upon the water : they 
were of the following forts, the wake- 
robin, the kidney-bean, the fun-flow- 
er, the cabbage, the fpinach, and the 
irnall mallow ; among the others the 
following forts were found to draw the 
moifture better with their upper fur- 
face than their under, the plantain, 
the mullein, the great mallow, the 
nettle, the cockfcomb, and the purple 
amaranth. 

The leaves of the nettle, whofe un- 
der furface was upon the water, were 
decayed in three weeks, whereas thofe 
whofe upper furface was next the wa- 
ter continued two months. 

The leaves of mullein, whofe under 
furface was next the water, did not 
continue frefh more than five or fix 
days, but thofe whofe upper furface 
was next the water lafled five weeks. 

The leaves of the purple amaranth, 
whofe upper furface was next the wa- 
ter, continued frefh three months, 
whereas thofe whofe under furface was 
next the water were decayed in a week. 

The leaves of the marvel of Pern, 
and the balm, appeared to have the 
advantage, whofe under furfaces were 
next the water. 

The leaves of the wake robin and the 
cockfcomb, whofe foot-ftalks only 
■were put into the water, continued 
frefh a longer time than thofe which 
were placed with either furface next 
the water. 

The leaves of the great mallow, the 
nettle, the fun-flower, the marvel of 
Peru, and fpinach, whofe foot-ftalks 
were plunged into the water, continued 
frefh a fhorter time than thofe which 
had either of their furfaces next the 
water. 

The leaves of the mullein, of plan- 
tain, and amaranth, which received the 
water at their foot-ftalk, continued 
frefh much longer than thofe whofe 
under furfaces was next the water. 

It is not difficult to explain the rea- 
fon of this facl, for the orifices of the 
fap veflels in the foot-ftalks, are much 
larger than thofe of either furface, fo 
that the moifture infinuates in greater 
quantities and with more eafe, the firft 
than by the fecond way. 

After this the fame gentleman made 



experiments on the leaves of fixteen 
forts of trees and fhrubs of the follow- 
ing forts, the lilac, the pear-tree, the 
vine, the afpen, the laurel, the cherry- 
tree, the plumb-tree, the horfe chefnut, 
the white mulberry, the lime-tree, the 
poplar, the apricot, the walnut, the 
filbert, the oak, and the creeper. 

Among thefe fpecies he found that 
the lilac and the afpen imbibed the 
moifture on their upper furface, equal- 
ly with their under furface : but in all 
the other forts, the under furface imbi- 
bed it in much greater quantities than 
the oppofite. The difference was very 
remarkable in the leaves of the white 
mulberry, for thofe whofe upper furface 
was laid upon the water faded in five 
days, whereas the other, whofe under 
furface was next the water, preferved 
their verdure near fix months. 

The vine, the poplar, and walnut- 
tree, are very remarkable inftances how 
little difpofed the upper furfaces of the 
leaves of ligneous plants are to imbibe 
the moifture ; for thofe of thefe three 
forts, whofe upper furfaces were ap- 
plied to the water, decayed almofl as 
foon as thofe which had no nourifh- 
ment. 

In all the experiments made by this 
curious gentleman upon the various 
leaves of trees and herbs, it is remark- 
able, that all thofe leaves which imbi- 
bed their moifture by their upper fur- 
face, were fuch as had that furface co- 
vered either with hairs or down, and 
on the contrary, where the under fur- 
face was garnifhed with either hair or 
down, the moifture was imbibed by 
that furface. He likewife mentions 
many experiments made by himfelf, 
and alfo by Monf. du Hamel de Mon- 
ceau, of the royal academy of fciences 
at Paris, in rubbing the leaves over 
with varnifh, oil, wax, and honey, to 
fee the effeft of thefe upon various 
leaves, fome of which were rubbed 
over on both furfaces, others only upon 
one ; fome only a part of the furface, 
others the edges of the leaves were 
rubbed over, and in fome only.the foot- 
ftalks of the leaves were rubbed there- 
with. They likewife anointed the 
trunks of fome trees and fhrubs, and 
left the leaves and branches in their 
natural ftate. 

The refult of thefe experiments was, 
that where the leaves wereanointed on 
both furfaces with varnifh, they de- 
cayed 



LEA 



LEA 



eayed prefently ; and where they were 
anointed with the other things, in pro- 
portion as thofe were moft penetrating, 
fo the leaves continued a fhorter time 
than the others ; and where one fur- 
face only was anointed, they continued 
much longer than thofe which were 
anointed on both ; and where the pe- 
dicle only was anointed, they continued 
ilill longer ; but the anointing of the 
trunks made no fenfible alteration, 
excepting in very hot weather ; when 
they both imagine, that the anointing 
them was of fervice, by hindering the 
too great tranfpiration which might 
weaken the trees; for they obferved, 
that thofe trees which were varnifhed, 
fuffered lefs from the violent heat, than 
the trees which were left in their na- 
tural ftate. 

Monf. Bonnet alfo obferved, that 
the tender parts of thofe leaves which 
were varnifhed, were deftroyed by it, 
and the tough fibres were only left re- 
maining. 

We may therefore reafonably con- 
clude, that one great ufe of leaves is 
what has been long fufpedted by many, 
viz. to perform in fome meafure, the 
fame office for the fupport of the vege- 
table life, as the lungs of animals do 
for the fupport of animal life 5 plants, 
very probably, drawing through their 
leaves fome part of their nourifhment 
from the air. 

Leaves of Elm, were given by the 
Roman hufbandmen to feed their cat- 
tle. 

Leaves of Oak. Their ufe in a hot- 
houfe is recommended by Mr. Speech- 
ly, gardener to the Duke of Portland, 
in a letter to Dr. Hunter of York, 
wherein he fays " I prefume that the 
leaves of the oak abound with the 
fame quality as the bark of the tree, 
therefore the fooner they are raked up 
after they .fall from the trees, the bet- 
ter, as that quality will naturally de- 
crease during the time they are expofed 
to the weather. After being raked 
into heaps they mould immediately be 
carried to fome place near the hct- 
houfes, where they muft lie to couch. 
I generally fence them round with 
charcoal hurdles, or any thing elfe to 
keep them from being blown about 
the garden in windy weather. In this 
place we tread them well, and water 
them in cafe they happen to have been 
.brought in. dry. We make the heap 



fix or feven feet in thicknefs, covering 
it over with old matts, or any thing 
elfe, to prevent the upper leaves from 
being blown away. In a few days the 
heap will come to a ftrong heat. For 
the firft year or two that I ufed thefe 
leaves, I did not continue them in the 
heap longer than ten days or a fort- 
night ; but in this I difcovered a consi- 
derable inconvenience, as they fettled 
fo much when they got into the hot- 
houfe as foon to require a fupply. 
Taught by experience, I now let them 
remain in the heap five or fix weeks, 
by which time they are properly pre- 
pared for the hot-houfes. In getting 
them into the pine- pits, if they appear 
dry, we water them again, treading 
them in layers exceedingly well till the 
pits are quite full. We then cover the 
whole with tan to the thicknefs of two 
inches, and tread it well till the furface 
becomes fmooth and even. On this 
we place the pine-pets in the manner 
they are to ftand, beginning with the 
middle row firft, aud filling up the 
fpace; between the pots with tan. In 
like manner we proceed to the next 
row till the whole is finifhed ; and this 
operation is> performed in the fame 
manner as when tan only is ufed. 

" After this the leaves require no 
farther trouble the whole feafon thro*, 
as they will retain a conftant and re- 
gular heat for twelve months without 
either ftirring or turning ; and if I 
may form a judgment from their ap- 
pearance when taken out, (being al- 
ways entire and perfect) it is proba- 
ble they would continue their heat 
through a fecond year; but as an an- 
nual fupply of leaves is eafily obtained, 
fuch a trial is hardly worth the trouble, 
of making. 

" After this the pines will have no 
occafion to be moved but at the if atad 
times of their management, viz. at the 
fhifting them in their pots, Sec. when 
at each time a little frefh. tan fhould 
be added to make up the deficiency 
arifing from the fettling of the beds ; 
but this will be inconfiderable, as the 
leaves do not fettle much after long 
couching. During the two firft years 
of my practice I did not ufe any tap, 
but plunged the pine-pots into the 
leaves, and juft covered the furface of 
the beds when finifhed, with a little 
faw-duil, to give it a neatnefs. This 
method was attended with one incon- 



LEA 



LEA 



venlence; for by the caking of the 
leaves they fhrunk from the fides of 
the pots, whereby they became expo- 
fed to the air, and at the fame time the 
heat of the bed was permitted to ef- 
cape. 

" Many powerful reafons may be 
given why oak leaves (for I have not 
tried any other kinds) are preferable to 
tanners bark. 

" Firft, they always heat regularly ; 
for during the whole time that I have 
ufed them, which is near feven years, 
I never once knew of their heating 
with violence ; and this is fo frequently 
the cafe with tan, that I affirm, and 
indeed it is well known to every per- 
fon converfantin themanagement of a 
hot-houfe, that pines fuffer more from 
thisonecircumftance, than from all the 
other accidents put together, infefts 
excepted. When this accident hap- 
pens near the time of their fruiting, 
the effeft is foon feen in the fruit, 
which always comes ill fhaped and 
exceedingly fmall. Sometimes there 
will be little or no fruit at all ; there- 
fore gardeners who make ufe of tan 
only for their pines, fhould be moft 
particularly careful to avoid an over- 
heat at that critical feafon — the time of 
(hewing fruit. 

" Secondly, the heat of oak leaves is 
conflant; whereas tanners bark gene- 
rally turns cold in a very fhort time af- 
ter its furious heat is gone off; this 
obliges the gardener to give the tan fre- 
quent turnings in order to promote its 
heating. Thefe frequent turnings (not 
to mention the expence) are attended 
with the worft confequences, for by 
the continual moving of the pots back- 
wards and forwards, the pines are ex- 
pofed to the extremes of heat and cold, 
whereby their growth is confiderably 
retarded ; whereas when leaves are 
ufed, the pines will havenooccafion to 
be moved but at the times of potting, 
&c. The pines have one particular ad- 
vantage in this nndifturbed fituation: 
their roots grow through the bottoms 
of the pots and mat amongft the leaves 
in a furprizing manner. From the vi- 
gour of the plants when in this fitua- 
tion, it is highly probable that the 
leaves, even in this (late, afford them 
an uncommon and agreeable nourish- 
ment. 

" Thirdly, there is a faving in point 
of expence, which is no inconfiderable 



objeft in places where tan cannot be 
had but from a great diftance, as is the 
cafe here, the article of carriage 
amounting to ten (hillings for each 
waggon-load. Indeed, this was the 
principal reafon that firft induced me 
to make trial of leaves. 

*.' My laft ground of preference is 
the consideration that decayed leaves 
make good manure ; whereas rotten 
tan is experimentally found to be of 
no value. I have often tried it both 
on fand and clay, alfo on wet and dry 
lands, and never could difcover, in any 
of my experiments, that it deferved 
the name of a manure; whereas de- 
cayed leaves are the richeft, -and of all 
others, the moft fuitable for a garden. 
But this murt only be underftood of 
leaves after they have undergone their 
fermentation, which reduces them to a 
true vegetable mould, in which we 
experimentally know that the food of 
plants is contained, but whether that 
food be oil, mucilage, or fait, or a com- 
bination of all three, I leave Philofo- 
phers to determine. This black mould 
is, of all others, the moft proper to mix 
with compoft earth, and I ufe it in ge- 
neral for pines, and almoft for every 
thing that grows in pots. For flower* 
it is moft excellent. The remainder 
of this vegetable mould may be em- 
ployed in manuring the quarters of the 
kitchen garden, for which purpofe it is 
highly ufeful. 

" Leaves mixed with dung make 
excellent hot- beds, and I find that 
beds compounded in this manner pre- 
ferve their heat much longer than when 
made entirely with dung. In both 
cafes the application of leaves will be 
a considerable faving of dung, a cir- 
cumftance very agreeable, as it will be 
the means of preventing the contefts 
frequently obferved in large families 
between the fuperinjendant of the gar- 
dens and the directors of the hufban- 
dry." 

LEANNESS, Scurf, Mangmefs, and 
Miflike. Diftempers in hogsall coming 
under one head, as they proceed from 
the fame caufe, which is corrupted 
blood a.ifing from lying wet, in filthy 
rotten litter, and wanting meat; the 
cure is performed in the following 
manner : Let the fwine blood under 
the tail, and with a wool-card comb 
off the filth and fcurf from his back 
till his fkin bleed, then mix fome tar, 
hogs-greafe, 



LEA 



LEA 



fcogVgreafe, and hrimftpne well toge- 
i her, and anoint him Lhfttewfftij clean 
bjs (lye, give Mm clean litter and warm 
food, and he will toon grow. found. 

LEAP or Lip. Half ahufhe!, lier.ee 

; f feed-leap or feed-lip, from whence the 

corn is (own, containing naif a bufhel. 

tt AH. y« L a i r '.' cJn ft 3- 

LEAbE. A covenant between the 
farmer and the landlpia, by which the 
farm i kit for a ur.n of years therein 
expreffed. 

Lease and Release, As ufed in 
our law, fignifies a certain inltrument, 
in writing, for ti»e conveyance of a" 
light or ir.tcrcfi in lands and tenements 
in fee to another. 

LEASH, Among fportfmen, de- 
notes three creature; of any kind : but 
Chiefly greyhounds, foxes, bucks, and 
hares. 

The term leafh a|fo fie'nifies a line 
to hold in a hunting dog ; and a fimil 
long thong of leather, by which a fal- 
coner holds his hawk. 

LEATHER. The fkin of feyeral 
kinds of beafis, dreffed and prepared 
for the ule of' the various manufactu- 
rers, whole bufi net's it is to make them 
up. The butcher and others who flay 
off their hides or fkin, difpofe of them 
raw or faked to the tanner and tawer, 
and then to the fhamoy, Morocco, and 
other kind of leather dreffers, who pre'; 
pare them according to their feiipedtive 
arts, in order to dii'j ofe of them among 
fhe curriers' glovers, harnefs-rnakers, 
pqa.ch-m.ake.ts, fad!ers, breeches-ma-; 
kers, gilt leather- makers, chair makers, 
fhoe-makers, book-binders, and all in 
anyway concerned in the article of lea- 
thei. — The three principal affortments 
of leather are tanned or tawed, and oil 
and allum-leather ; and it may he af- 
firmed with great truth, that the fkins 
of our own produclicn, and thofe im- 
ported from our colonics, when dreffed 
in this kingdom,' make the heft leather 
in the wcrld, and therefore this U an 
article of great importance to the t; ade 
of the nation. 

Though the r e is no little difference 
between the dreiTing cf fhamoy-k a- 
ther, ailum-kather, Hungary-leather, 
Morocco- leather, parchment, and tan- 
ning; yet thefkins which pafs through 
the hands of thefe feveral workman, 
pught to have been, for.the moft part, at 
leait wafhed clean from blood and im- 
purities in a running water; fet to 
' Vol. I. 



drain, worked with the hands,or pound- 
el with wooden peftles in a vat; put 
ir.ro the j it, which is a hole lined either 
WJth vi ood .or with ftone and morrar, 
filled with water in which quick-lima 

ived - , in Order to loofen the hair, 
that it may beeahly rubbed off with- 
i ht 'i i :j (ning the fkin; drawn out, and 
fet to drain on. the edge of the pit; 
(trenched on the leg or horfe, in oider 
to have the hair fcraped off with a 
blunt irqri-knlfej 6r woooefl cylinder; 
the membranes on the fkfhy fide, and 
the fc.sbs or rr.oiohneffes on the grain- 
f .'e, pared ( ff with a fhatp knife, and 
the :kip-: rubbed With ;( whetl+one, to 
■ ■ any particles oi the lime, or any 

:i. tl it rriaV occaiion hardnefs ; 

led b.v difTeren: forts of powder, 
whereby they become 1 gr^tW in bulk, 
and fo much lighter a.s'gi.adually to rife 
to t'hje futlace c f the Water '; ftretclied 
out green or half dried, and pikd one 
over another; or put up'fefj,.f ate after 
they ire. dried, and hung out to air up. 
on goles, lines, or any other, way: 
tVhii h rnu'ft' be repeatedly done in the 
drefiirig c: final! fkins. This alternate 
franfHJon'fi'om the liquid of the a"; into 
that of water, and from water in the 
air, with the affi fiance Of lime, falts, 
and oils, opens the inmoft fibres cf the 
fkin fo effectually, as greatly to facili- 
tate tlte intrcducTionof fuhftances pro- 
per for making them pliant, without 
rendering them thinner. 

The allnm leather- dreffer dreffes all 
forts of white leather from the ox-hide 
to the larnb-ikin ; for d.xffing the fad- 
ler's leather, he ufes bran,, fea-falt, and 
allum ; and for that which the glover 
ufes; after the common preparatives, 
he firft employs bran, and then with 
ir.lt. allum, fine flour, and jolks of eggs 
m.ixed in hot water, he makes a fort of 
pap. with which tiie fkins are fmeared 
in a tM: 

The fhamoy ieather-dreffer foaks in 
oil, not only the lkins of the true fha- 
moy (which is a wild goat) but like- 
fe of all other goats. The 

ufes the bark of young oaks 
ground in a tanning-mill, in which he 

fe fkins more or lefs, according 
to the d/iffereht Cervices expected from 
them, their chief iife being to remain 
firm and keep out water. In certain 
cafes, inltead of tan, he ufes redon, 
which is chiefly ufed for tanning ram, 
fhcep-fkins,anddre'fring Ruffi a leather. 
3 L " LEAVEN. 



LEE 



L E M 



LEAVEN. A piece of four dough, 
ufed to ferment and render light a 
muchlarger quantity of dough or parte. 

LEDGER. The principal book in 
which merchants enter their accounts. 

LEDUM. Wild rofemary, in bo- 
tany, a plant which grows naturally in 
moift places in feveral parts of Eng- 
land. It rifes with a fiender fliru'bby 
ftalk, dividing into many branches, 
which are furnifhed with narrow 
leaves : the flowers come out in cluf- 
ters at the ends of the branches, each 
having five hollow petals, and ten fta- 
mina: the fruit is a roundifh capfule, 
with five cells, which are filled with 
fmall narrow pointed feeds, 

LEE. In thefea language, that part 
of the hemifphere^o which the wind 
- • ■ bloweth. i?Scce*-~ S//42*- - 
'fr,/f"/a/* - LEEKS, [Porrum.'j Of this plant 
there are two fpecies, the London or 
garden leek, and the Siberian. They 
are raifed by fowing the feeds in the 
fpring, and keeping them carefully 
weeded, and tranfplanting them in 
June in rows about a foot apart, and 
fix inches from each other. If you 
would fave the feeds of this plant, you 
fhould make choice of fome of the lar- 
geft and beftyou have, which muft re- 
main in the place where they grow till 
February, when they fhould be tranf- 
planted in a row againft a warm hedge, 
pale, or wall, about eight inches afun- 
der; and when their ftems advance, 
they fhould be fupported by a firing 
to prevent their being broken down, 
to which they are very liable, efpeci- 
ally when in head, and the clofer they 
are drawn to the fence in autumn, the 
better the feeds will ripen; for it fome- 
times happens in cold fummers or au- 
tumns, that thofe which grow in the 
open garden, do not perfecl their feeds 
In this country, efpecially if there are 
fharpfrofh early in the autumn, which 
will entirely fpoil the feed. 

When it is ripe (which may be 
known by the heads changing brown) 
you fhould cut off their heads with 
about a foot or more of the ftalk to 
each, and tie them in bundles contain- 
ing three or four heads, and hang them 
up in a dry place, where they may re- 
main till Chriftmas or after, when you 
may threfh out the feeds for ufe. The 
hufk of thefe feeds is very tough, which 
renders itdifficult to bea tout the feeds ; 
fome, therefore, when th«y have but a 



fmall quantity, rub it hard againft a 
rough tile, which will break thehufks, 
and get the feeds out better than moft 
other methods. 

LEES. The more grofs and ponde- 
rous parts of liquor which are fepara- 
ted by fermentation and fall to the bot- 
tom, as of ale, wine, &c. 

LEET. A little court held within 
a manor, and called the King's court, 
on account that its authority to pu- 
nifh offences originally belonged to 
the crown, and from thence defcended 
to inferior perfons, 

LEMNlAN EARTH. A pale red 
bole, which flightly ferments when 
mixed with acids. 

LEMON TREE, [Limonia.] A ge- 
nus of trees with large fliff leaves like 
the citron, without any appendage at 
the bottom ; the flower confifts of 
many leaves, which expand in the form 
ofarofe; the fruit is almoft of an oval 
figure, and divided into feveral cells, in 
which are lodged hard feeds, furroun- 
ded by a thick flefhy fubftance, which, 
for the molt part, is full of an acid 
juice. 

All forts are propagated by budding 
or inarching them either on ftocks of 
lemons or citrons produced from feeds, 
but they will not readily uniteon orange 
ftocks ; for which reafon the citrons 
are preferable to either oranges or le- 
mons for ftocks, as they readily join 
with either fort ; and being of larger 
growth, caufe the buds of the other 
forts to be much ftronger than if they 
were on ftocks of their own kind. 

The culture of the lemon is the fame 
with that of the orange tree, with this 
difference only, the former being har- 
dier than the latter, will confequently 
bring their fruit to maturity with us 
much better than the orange will, and 
therefore require to have a greater 
fhare of frefh air in winter ; for which 
reafon they fhould always be placed 
near to the doors or windows of the 
green-houfe : and in fome curious gar- 
dens thefe trees have been planted 
againft walls, where by covering them 
with ghiffes in winter, and protecting 
them from fevere frofts, they have pro- 
duced plenty of large fruit: as thefe 
trees generally produce ftronger fhoots, 
fo they require more water to be given 
them than the orange ; but as to the 
tender forts, they muft be treated with 
a little more care, otherwife their fruit 

will 



LEP 



LET 



will fall off in winter, and come to no- 
thing. — The juice of lemons is fimilar 
in quality to that of the aurantia mala ; 
(oranges) from which it differs only 
in being more acid. The yellow peel 
is an elegant aromatic bitter, and as 
fuch is frequently employed in ftoma- 
chic tindtures and infufions : it is con- 
siderably hotter than orange peel, and 
yields in diftillation with water a lar- 
ger quantity of effential oil: its flavour 
is neverthelefs more perifhable, yet 
does not arife fo readily with fpirit of 
wine; for a fpirituous extratt made 
from lemon peel poffeffes the aromatic 
tafte and fmell of the fubjed: in much 
greater perfection than an extract pre- 
pared in the fame manner from the 
peels of oranges. 

LENTILS. The name of a plant of 
the vetch or tare kind, cultivated in fome 
parts of England as fodder for cattle. 

Lentils grow to a foot or a foot and 
a half high, with ftalks and leaves like 
thofe of tares, but fmaller ; and like 
them they bear their feeds, generally in 
three or four little pods. Thefe feeds 
are round, hard, fmooth, and fiat, but 
thicker at the fides. There are two 
forts of lentils, the white and the yeU 
low j but the latter affords the greateft 
quantity of fodder. 

The feeds of this plant are com- 
monly fown in March, where the land 
is dry, but in moift ground the time is 
in April. The ufual quantity of feed 
allowed to an acre of land is from one 
bufhel and a half to two bufhels. If 
thefe are fown in drills in the fame 
manner as peafe, they willfucceed bet- 
ter, and tefs feed will do than when 
they are fown broad-caff. The drills 
fhould be a foot and a half afunder, to 
allow room for the hoe to clean the 
ground between them ; for if the weeds 
are permitted to grow among them, 
they will get above the lentils, and 
ftarve them. 

LENTISC or MASTIC, [Lentifcus.] 
See Mastic. 

LEOPARDS BANE, [Doronicum.] 
There are two or three fpecies of this 
plant not unlike the daifey, and are 
feldom cultivated in our gardens ex- 
cept for the fake of variety. They are 
propagated by parting the roots. 

\ LEPROSY or MANGE. This is a 
difeafe of the fkin, or fcarffkin, feldom 
attended with either pain or inflamma- 
tion. All creatures are liable to foulnefs 



of the fkin, when good care is.not taken 
of them; in horfes this is fometimes 
attended withorcaufed by other com* 
plaints, though fometimes not. 

When there is no other complaint 
joined with it, the remedies are to be 
only external. Proceed as follows: 

Make fome very ffrong foap-fuds, 
and put in fome vinegar and fome pow- 
der of white hellebore. 

Firft wipe the horfe very dry, then 
rub him all over with a brum wet with 
the foap-fuds, and wafh him well with 
it, by throwing fome over him, work- 
ing it well in with the hands, and rub- 
bing him well with a coarfe cloth. 
After this let him be taken in and dried 
thoroughly, and give him fome food 
and clean litter. 

Mix up a pound of flower of brim- 
flone, a quarter of a pint of oil of tur- 
pentine, and as much hog's lard as 
will make the whole into an ointment. 
Rub him well with this an hour after 
he is thoroughly dry from warning. 

The next day boil a quarter of a 
pound of white hellebore and a pound 
of dock root, in a gallon of water, make 
this into fuds, by beating it up with a 
good quantity of foap, and wafh him 
with it, then anoint him well with the 
fame ointment as before. 

Repeat this every day for feven, eight, 
or nine days, according to the nature 
of the complaint, and he will fcon be 
cured : laft of all wafh him well with 
the fuds, without anointing after it. 

This is certain to prove a cure, if 
there be nothing but the outward com- 
plaint; but when it has proceeded from 
bad food, bad water, and ill manage- 
ment, as well as uncleanlinefs, then 
the fame outward method is to be ufed, • 
and he is to have flower of brimftone 
and powder of antimony inwardly. 

There is no need to alter the medi- 
cines when the defign is the fame, and 
there is n.o way fo good of giving them. 
All exte.rnai foulneffes are to be cured 
with erife and certainty, and in a very 
little vime, by this method. After he 
is got; well, he fhoijld hav,e a dofe or 
two of phyfic. i/£f a/ V* 070// *S 

LETTUCE, [LaRuca.] Thevariet 
tiey are very numerous, but the real 
valuable forts now commonly cultiva- 
ted, do not amount to above fix or fe- 
ven ; and it is better to cultivate only 
a few of the known good kinds, than 
to confufe the ground with a great 

3 L z murtt- 



LET 



LET 



multiplicity of forts, unlefs required 
merely for variety. We will, however, 
exhibit a lift of the principal, and lefs 
material varieties feparate. 

Principal Varieties. Hardy green cab- 
bage lettuce, white cabbage-lettuce, 
great admirable white cabbnge-lettuce 
very large, brown Dutch cabbage-let- 
tuce, green cofs-lettuce, white cofs-let- 
tuce, brown Silefia-lettuce. All the 
cabbage kinds are of fpreading growth, 
but cabbage firmly ; and the other 
forts grow upright, and alfo cabbage 
very large. 

All thefefeven varieties are excellent 
lettuces for general culture, though the 
green, and the white cofs kinds are iri 
mod efteem for the general fummer 
crops 5 and the green cofs rather ex- 
cels all the cofs kinds for fize and good- 
nefs; but as all the above varieties both 
of the cabbage and cofs kinds cabbage 
exceeding fine, a few of each is worth 
cultivating in every garden for general 
ufe ; but rather rrtoft of the cofs kinds 
for ummer, and mod of the others for 
autumn and winter ; and the hardy 
cabbage, brown Dutch, and green cofs, 
are proper alfo to fland the winter for 
fpring fervice; but if thought proper 
fome of each fort may be ufed for either 
or all of thefe feafons, except the great 
admirable cabbage-lettuce, which be- 
ing rather tender, does not fucceed for 
early nor late~crops, fo fhould be fown 
principally in April and May, and will 
cabbage remarkably fine in July and 
Auguft. All the other varieties, how- 
ever, may be fowed any time in fpring, 
fummer, or autumn. 

Left material Varieties. Small early 
green ball-cabbage lettuce, white ball- 
cabbage lettuce : both of thefe are va- 
rieties of the common green and white 
cabbage lett.: ej green capuchin let- 
tuce, imperial lettuce, large fpotted 
cofs-lettuce, black cofs-lettuce, large 
and fomewhat fpreading. All thefe 
varieties cabbage to firm heads, though 
inferior t the former clafs of varieties 
for general ufe ; but their culture is all 
the fame as the others ; and if required 
for variety, maybe raifed abundantly 
by feed i.; fpring, fummer, or autumn. 
All the above varieties of lettuce in 
each clafs, are tolerably permanent, 
efpecially if care is taken to fave the 
feeds only of the very belt of each fort ; 
and the different forts always as far 
diftant from each other as pofiibk, 



that their farina may not mix and cauie 
a degeneracy, for it is by not ltriclly 
obferving this that fo many are difap- 
pointed in their crops, by having let- 
tuce not of the approved forts, and 
fhofe often fmall and ihfignificant, 
running to feed before they have half 
cabbaged ; therefore great regard lhould 
be had in the choice of the plants for 
feedj according to the above hints, by 
which you may depend on continuing 
plants of the approved kinds in the ut- 
moft perfection. 

The plants in general may be confi- 
dered both as annuals and biennials, 
for thofe fowed in fpring and fummer, 
attain perfection, run up to feed, and 
perifh the fame year; but the autumn 
fowings will ftand all winter until 
fpring following, when they attain per- 
fection, then (hoot up for feed, and pe- 
rifh root and all. 

All the forts are hardy enough to 
grow iri any common foil of a kite!. en 
garden, in a free fituation open to the 
fun and air; but being rather impati- 
ent of fevere frolt and wet foils in win- 
ter, fhould have a dry warm fituatiori 
in thatfeafon, and fome fhould be kept 
under frames and other fhelters, the 
more effectually to preferve and for- 
ward them for ufe during that feafbn 
and fpring time. 

Their ufe is principally for falinds, 
when arrived to full growth and cab- 
baged, that the inner leaves become 
blanched, crifp, and fweet, otherwife 
they would eat tough and bitter tafted ; 
but •fometimes alfo the young opeii 
plants of the cabbage-kttuces are ufed 
in fpring till the other general crops ar- 
rive to perfection : the white cabbage 
being the moft elligible fcrthis ufe, as 
they eat fweeter than any other forts 
while young and open. Quite young 
open lettuces are alfo often ufed as 
fmall faliad herbs, fowing them thick 
in rows, like creffes, &c. and gather 
them for ufe in the fame manner as for 
thofe plants ; but this mode of culture 
is more particularly practifed in win- 
ter and fpring. Lettuce=, however, in 
general eat no way fo crifp, fweet, and 
palatable, as when fully cabbaged, and 
are th'emfeives fufneientfor a faliad, it 
thought proper, without the addition 
of other herbs. The fully cabbaged 
lettuces are alfo excellent for Hewing 
and for foups, and other culinary nfeS, 
■ — The propagation of all the forts df 
lettuce 



LET 



LET 



tuce is by feed annually, and that to 
continue a regular fucceffion of them 
for ufe at all times of the year, fix or 
eight different fowings at leaft, arene- 
ceifary ; but the principal fowing-fea- 
fon for the main crops, is fpring, Fe- 
bruary, March, April, and May ; which, 
will furnifh a conftant fupply of good 
lettuces from May till Auguft Or Sep- 
tember; and by latter fowings they are 
continued longer accordingly : as the 
plants however, of all the fowings, af- 
ter having attained their proper fize, 
and are fully cabbaged, foon after run 
up to feed, to infure a continued fuc- 
celTion as long as poffible, a fowing 
may be performed every three weeks or 
month, from January until September 
or Ocftober. 

The main crops of lettuces fhould 
generally be fown diftinff. from other 
crops, and each different variety fepa- 
rate; they are commonly fown thin 
among other fmall crops, to five 
ground; fome of the plants defigned 
for tranfplantation into other places, 
and fome to remain at good diliances 
for cabbaging; fo are frequently fown 
among early radifhes and fpinach, alfo 
among onions, leeks, carrots, parfnips, 
&c. particularly the upright forts of 
Cofs-lettuces ; any of the forts are like- 
wife often fowed thin among winter 
fpinach, but chiefly the common green 
cabbage, and brown Dutch kinds; but 
in fowing any forts of lettuces among 
any of thefe crops, a thin fprir.kiing 
fhould only be admitted; but when 
there is plenty of ground, I fhould be 
for fowing the main crops principally 
diftindl by themfelves, and the plants 
thinned out, leaving fome to remain for 
cabbaging where fowed, and tranfp'll nc 
the reft into another (pot of ground. 

When intended to have e:irly young 
open lettuces for fpring ufe, the white 
cabbage kinds are the proper forts to 
fow for that purpofe, and may begin to 
thin the young plants for ufe, when 
their leaves are an inch or two bread, 
which may be continued as they are 
wanted, leavingfome at regular diftan- 
ces to arrive at full growth. 

for full grown lettuces it is proper 
to fow the different forts at the fame 
time in feparate fpots of ground, 
whereby you will have a regular fup- 
ply ; remarking the forts that are the 
moft proper for ufe at the different fea- 
fons of the year, and the different times 



of fowing as above mentioned. 

The early fowings of all the forr*> 
fhould be performed on a warm bordet* 
or fome dry fhfeltered fituation, to have 
the crops as forward as poffible ; and 
if required to have a few early lettuces 
as forward as can be, they may be 
greatly forwarded by fowing them in a 
flender hot-bed in January or Febm* 
ary ; particularly the white and green 
cofs-lettuce, and if the young plants of 
an inch or two high are pricked out in- 
to another flight hot-bed, it wiil ftill 
bring them more forward ; and after 
having a month's growth fome may be 
thinned out in mild weather, and 
planted a foot diftance in the open 
ground ; but in default of hot-beds, a 
few may be fowed in frames, or under 
hand glaffes in a bed or border of na- 
tural 'earth, to have fhelter on nights 
and cold weather, which may bring 
them a little forwarder than thofe fully 
expofed. 

But the general fpring and fummer- 
fowings for the main crops, for fum- 
merand autumn ufe, and alfo thetranf- 
plan tings, fhould be performed princi- 
pally in any open fituation, in the quar- 
ters, or large open borders, the more 
cliftant from fprtading trees and bufhes 
the better. 

The fowings of all the forts at every 
feafon is performed principally by 
broad-caft on the furlace; obferving, 
as the feeds are fmall and thin, particu- 
lar care is reqnifrtein fowing, to fpread 
them regular, and rake them in with 
an even hand ; or thofe fowed in hot- 
beds under frames, may inftead of ra- 
king in. have earth lifted over them 
near a quarter of an inch deep ; and in 
about from eight or ten, to fifteen or 
twenty days after fowing, in either 
method, the plants will appear, which 
are to be managed according to the fol- 
lowing directions. 

When the plants of each fowing 
come up, the principal care is to keep 
them dean from weeds, thin them 
where too clofe, and tranlplant fome of 
each fowing ; but as to the earlieft 
fowed plants, which come up early in 
fpring, if attacked while very young 
with fevere froft, thofe in borders may 
be defended with a light covering of 
dry long litter occafionally ; and thofe 
in hot-beds, or under frames, &c. in the 
full ground, by covering with the glaf- 
fes. The weeding and thinning the 
different 



LET 



LET 



different crops of thefe plants may be 
performed either by hand or hoe; if 
they are to form a crop of themfelves, 
weed and thin the plants with the hoe j 
if they are defigned for tranfplanting, 
the weeding and thinning fhould prin- 
cipally be performed by hand, and fome 
of each fowing fhould be tranfplanted, 
to have lettuces in fucceffion. 

When defigned to tranfplant any fort 
of lettuce, it fhould be done when the 
plants are about three or four inches 
high, not more, for when larger they 
are apt to flag greatly, and do not root 
fo freely as younger plants: moift 
weather will be particularly necefTary 
for this work. Take up the plants 
with care, fo as to prefcrve as much 
root as pcffible; and proceed to plant 
them by line and dibble, in rows a foot 
at leaft afunder, but if fifteen cr eigh- 
teen inches diftant the better, efpeci- 
ally for the larger kinds. As foon as 
they are planted give them water, 
which fhould be repeated, if dry wea- 
ther, feveral times for the flrft week or 
ten days, till the plants have taken 
frefh root, and begin to advance in 
growth. 

Thus continue planting out a quan- 
tity every three weeks, from March, 
April, or May, until September, or 
October, whereby you will have a daily 
fupply of well cabhaged lettuces eight 
or nine months in the year; and thofe 
planted out late, will ftand the winter 
and cabbage early in 5 (pring. 

If the fummer tranfplantings are 
planted in (hallow drills, it will be 
fome advantage in facilitating the frefh 
rooting of the plants, as the drills will 
confine the water principally about the 
plants, and alfo retain the moifture 
longer than the level furface. 

Tying up lettuces to forward their 
cabbaging, and to whiten and render 
them crifp, is often practifed on early 
fpring and fummer crops, particularly 
cofs-lettuces. When the plants are 
well advanced in growth, and begin- 
ning naturally to form their inner 
leaves for cabbaging, tie all their leaves 
vp clofe together with a piece of bafs, 
a little above the middle of the plant, 
not too flrait, but fo as the whole plant 
may have room to grow ; befides if 
tied too clofe, they are apt to rot in the 
heart : this work of tying, however, is 
only neceffarr for fome of the earlieft 
plants of the forward crops, the fuc 



ceeding ones will cabbage faft- enough 
without that aid; only obferving, if 
any forts fhould be backward in cab- 
baging, as is often the cafe with the 
black cofs-lettuce, they may always be 
facilitated therein by the above prac- 
tice. 

Winter lettuces, both for winter ufe, 
and to ftand the winter in warm bor- 
ders and in frames, Sec. for fpring fer- 
vice, are obtained by two or three dif- 
ferent fowings in autumn, from the 
middle or latter end of Auguft until 
the end of September or October. 

That is, to have lettuces ftand for 
ufc all winter, and early in fpring, fow 
fome hardy green and white cabbage 
lettuce, brown Dutch, and green-cofs, 
about the middle of Auguft, and be- 
ginning of September, in any open 
fituation, and the plants will come up 
in a week cr ten days; about the end 
of September and in October, plant 
out a parcel of the beft plants of each 
fowing, in a warm dry fituation, fix 
or eight inches afunder ; and at each 
planting plant alfo fome under frames 
at the fame diffance, to be covfred with 
glaffes every night, and in bad weather $ 
or for want of trame^ plant them under 
hand-i;!:iffes, or in a bed arched over 
with hoops or rods, to be covered with 
mats in winter frofts; but if you ufe 
frames, chufethem as fhallow as pof- 
fibie, and fink the back part in the 
ground, fo as to be only equal in height 
with the front, that the furface of the 
bed and plants may be all an equal 
diftance from the glaffes, if not more 
at firit, than fix or eight inches, the 
better, as it will prevent their drawing 
up weak and op-m, which is the cafe 
when in very deep frames, but in fhal- 
low ones, they will be more robuft and 
clofe, and being nearer the glaffes, they 
will be forwarded more in growth du- 
ring winter. Under either of the above 
fhelters, let the plants enjoy the free 
air in mild dry weather; but cover 
them every cold night, with the proper 
covers, efpecially after October, alfo in 
cold and wet weather, particularly 
thofe in frames and under glaffes ; thofe 
in hand glaffes may have them almoft 
conftantly over them in winter, tilting 
up one fide in mild weather, and only 
take them entirely off in fine dry days j 
in fharp frofty weather keep thofe un- 
der every kind of fhelter quite clofe, 
allowing an addi ticnal covering of mats 

or 



LET 



LET 



ov litter, when the froft is very intenfe ; 
thofe in the borders may be defended 
by fomc light litter, but at notimefuf- 
fer the covering to remain longer on 
any of the crops than the bad weather 
continues, but indulge them with free 
air every mild day. By this method 
you may have lettuces for ufe nioft part 
of the winter, and early in (firing, par- 
ticularly the cabbage lettuces. 

To have lettuces for fpring ufe, fome 
feed fhould be fowed towards the mid- 
dle and latter end of Auguft to ftand 
the winter, fome where they are fowed, 
others to be tranfplanted into warm 
borders, to ftand without any other 
fhelter than that cf the walls or other 
fences; and another fowing fhould be 
performed about the middle of Septem- 
ber, to raife plants for pricking under 
frames to have the fhelter of the glaffes 
in winter, to be a referve in cafe thofe 
in the borders are deftroyed ; if both 
ftand, one will fucceed the other. 

In rhe former cafe, a quantity of the 
plants, when two or three inches high, 
in October, or early in November, 
fhould be planted out into a warm dry 
Situation, in rows north and foutli, fix 
inches afunder, and here let them re- 
main to take their chance all the win- 
ter; out of the whole many of them 
will probably efcape the frofi, but in 
very fevere weather they may be pro- 
tected by a light covering of dry long 
litter, which fhould be removed again 
when the froft breaks. In March or 
April, if they remain too thick, feme 
fhould be thinned out and planted in 
another place, in rows twelve or fif- 
teen inches afunder; thefc crops, thus 
wintered in the open ground, will come 
in for ufi in April and May, to fucceed 
thofe fowed in autumn, and will re- 
main good till the fpring fown plants 
come in. 

Thofe fowed in September to be 
wintered in frames, fhould be planted 
therein about the l3tter end of Octo- 
ber, or beginning of November, plant- 
ing them in rows from the back to the 
front of the frame, at three inches dif- 
ftance from each other ; clofe the earth 
well about each plant, finifh with a 
moderate watering all over the plants, 
and put on the ghffes, to prom, e 
their more fpeedy rooting .--new, but 
let the lights be fhoved two or three 
inches down to give vf-r.t to the moift 
rapour arifing from the mould 



the plants have taken frefh root, and 
begin to grow, take the glaffes entirely 
off, and admit the full air every mild 
dry day, which muft be continued 
throughout the winter feafon, in all 
dry mild weather, but put them on 
every night, efpecially in cold or wet 
weather; keep the glaffes always on 
in frolly weather, except in the mid- 
dle of funny days, but when the froit 
is very fevtre, keep them clofe night 
and day, placing mats or long litter 
over the glaffes, and round the fides of 
the frame. During the winter keep al{ 
decayed leaves picked off, and as the 
fpring and warm weather advances, 
le: them have the benefit of warm 
mowers. 

In March tranfplant fome of them 
into the open ground, in rows, a foot 
at leaft afunder, water them mode- 
rately till rhey are frefh rooted, obfer- 
ving to leave a crop remaining in the 
frames or winter bed, a foot apart, to 
ftand to cabbage, which will come to 
perfection before the tranfpianted 
ones, and thofe that have been fully 
expofed all winter. 

Fcr want of frames for the above 
purpofe, a quantity of the plants may 
be pricked out under hand or bell-glaf- 
fes in autumn, to ftand, the winter, 
either by themfelves for a full crop, or 
may be planted under the hand or bell- 
glaffes that are placed over early cau- 
liflowers, as practifed by the London 
gardeners, planting them round juft 
within the gaffes, and manage them 
as directed for the frames; for want 
either of a fttffieiency of frames or 
hand glaffes. plant out a quantity in 
autumn, in four-feet wide beds, in a 
warm fituation, and arch them over 
with hoops or rods, to cover with mats 
and litter in bad weather: they will 
here have a better chance of furviving 
the winter than thole fully expofed, 
and in fpring tranfplant a quantity, by 
way of thinning, into other beds. 

Let it be re;;: rrked that fome of the 
early plants of .',11 the forts fhould prin- 
cipally be chofert for feed plants, for 
thofe cf the latter crops rarely run foon 
enough to ripen feeds perfectly before 
they are attacked by the autumnal 
rains and cold, which greatly retards 
the ripening of all forts of lettuce feed ; 
feledt the largeft and beft cabbaged of 
each refpective kind, and keep the dif- 
ferent varieties intended for feed, at 
fome 



LEV 



L I L 



fbme distance from each other, becaufe 
if too near, the feptfit maj'culinum of the 
different fort.s may mix and fecundate 
one another, and thereby a degeneracy 
or mongrel breed will be the confe- 
quence, and the true forts would in 
time be loll. 

The feed ripens in Auguft and Sep- 
tember, but that of each plant rarely 
ripens all equally together, lb that ac- 
cording as it arrives to perfection, the 
refpedlive branches fhould be cut off in 
dry days, and fpread upon a cloth, or 
tied in fmall bunches, and hung up 
acrofs lines in a dry airy loft, for a 
wok or two to dry and harden ; then 
beat them out, and clean them from 
the down and other rubbifh, and tx- 
pofe them upon cloths a few days to 
dry for keeping; then put them up in 
bags for ufe, and hang them in a dry 
room. 

All forts of lettuce produce the 
greateft quantities of feed in dry warm 
feafons, and in wet cold autumns ihey 
ripen feed very fparingly, and late, and 
often very indiffent in refpe£t to good- 
nefs for fowing. 

Lambs Lettuce. S^CornSal- 

IA : . 

W}7</Lettuce, [Prenavthes.^ This 
is a plant of no great beauty, growing 
on dry walls &nd dry fhady banks in 
many parts of England. There are 
two or three other fpecies growing wild 
upon the Helvetian mountains, and in 
North America, but are feldom admit- 
ted into gardens. 

LETHARGY. The hog will fome- 
times fall into what is called the fleep- 
ing evil or lethargy. He will doze ail 
day long, neglecl his food, and pine 
away. 

The remedy is a vomit, and the beft 
in the world is this. Gather a good 
quantity of wall pepper, called alfo 
fharp ftone crop. Bruife this in a mar- 
ble mortar, and prefs out the juice. 

Keep the creature falling all the af- 
ternoon and night, and the next morn- 
ins: fet before him a warm mefs, into 
which put a pint of the juice pf the 
ftone crop. He will be tempted to eat 
by his long faff, and the Hog is not 
very curious about taftes. He will 
vomit foon after he has fwallowed it, 
and that fingle dofe will frequently 
prove a cure. If this be not fufrkient, 
it muft be repeated the next day. 

LEVERET. A young hare. 



LICE. To cure lice on cattle or 
horfes, boil two ounces of white hel- 
lebore root bruifed in three pints of 
water to a quart, add to this liquor four- 
ounces of lulphur vivum in fine pow- 
der, and vvalh the beads with it twice 
a day. Let them be well looked after, 
and have good food and good rubbing 
and currying. 

LIFE EVERLASTING. ^Eter- 
nal Flower. 

LIFT. A ftile to be opened like a 
gate. 

LIGE. Little puftules or bladders 
within a horfe's lips. They are cured 
by bruifing wormwood and fkirwit in 
a moitar with a little honey, and 
anointing the fore with it. 

LIGNALOES. Aloes wood. 

LIGNUM VIT^E. See Guaia- 

C U M . 

LILAC, [Syringa.] The name of a 
flowering fhrub, cultivated in the 
Engliih gardens, and fuppofed to grow 
naturally in forne parts of Perfia, but 
is fo hardy as to refift the gieateft cold 
of this country. 

There arethree varieties of this fhrnb 
commonly cultivated here, which dif- 
fer in the colour of their flowers, and 
alfo in that of their fhoots and leaves j 
one of thefe has white flowers, one 
blue, and the third purple flowers; the 
latter is commonly known by the title 
of Scotch lilac, to diftinguifh it fiom 
the other, and is the moft beautiful of 
the three. 

Thefe fhrubs grow to the height of 
eighteen or twenty feet in good ground, 
and are divided into many branches; 
thofe of the white fort grow more erect 
than the other, and the purple or Scotch 
lilac has its branches more diffufed 
than either. The branches of the 
white are covered with a fmooth bark, 
of a grey colour, thofe of the other two 
are darker. The leaves of the white 
are of a very bright green, but thofe of 
the other are of a very dark green. 
They are heart-fhaped, and are placed 
oppofite ; the buds of the future fhoots, 
which are very turgid before the leaves 
fall, are of a very bright green in the 
white fort, but thofe of the other two 
are of a dark green. The flowers are 
always produced at the ends of the 
former year, and below the flowers 
come out fhoots to fucceed them; for 
that part upon which the flowers ftand 
decays down to the fhoots below every 
winter. 



■L I L 



L I L 



ier. There arc generally two 
bunches or panicles of flowers joined 
ui the end of each fnoot; tjiofe of the 
blue are the fmalleft, and are placed 
thinner than either of the other. The 
bunches on the white are larger; the 
flowers ar-e clofer placed, and larger 
than the bice ; but thofe of tiie Scctch 
are larger and fairer than either of the 
others. They flower in May, and 
when the fealbn is cool, thtfe fhiubs 
will continue three weeks in beauty, 
but in hot fcalbns the- flowers icon fade. 
Their feeds are ripe in September, 
:eh if fov.n foon after, the plants 
will come up the following fpring; 
but as their roots fend cut great plenty 
of fuckers annually, fo few perfoiis ever 
take the trouble to propagate thefe 
plants by feeds. They generally flower 
the third year from feed, and are not fo 
apt to fend out fuckers as thofe plants 
which were produced by fuckers, io 
are much more valuable; for the 
other; put cut fuch plenty of fuckers, 
that if they are not annually taken from 
the plants, they will ftarve them, 

Thefe plants thrive beft upon a light 
rid) foil, fuch as the gardens near Lon- 
don are for the melt part cempofed of, 
for in flrong loam, or upon chalky 
land, they make little progrefs. If the 
fucker: are fmall, when they aretajsgn 
from the old plants, they fhoujld i e 
in a nurfery, in rows thrive 
feet afunder, and one foot diltant in 
the raws, where they may ftand a year 
or two to get fbength, and then they 
fhould be removed to the places where 
they are to remain. The belt time to 
tranfplant thefe fhiubs is in autumn, 

LILY, \_Lilium.'] The common 
white lily is fo well known as to need 
r.o riefciiption ; it grows naturally in 
Palefline and Syria, but has been long 
cultivated in all the gardens of Europe. 
It is fo hardy that no frofts ever injure 
the roots, and it propagates fo fait by 
offsets from the roots, that it becomes 
fo common as to be little i swarded, 
though there is great beauty in the 
flowers, which have an' agreeable 
odcur. Of this fort there are the fol- 
lowing varieties : 

The white lily flriped with purple. 
The white lily with variegated leaves. 
The white lily with double flowers, 

Thefe a; e varieties which have acci- 
dentally arifen from culture; the fort 
with variegated flower6 has been in 
Vol. I. 



England more than fifty years, and it 
now very common in moft of the gar- 
dens, and is by fome perfons efteemed 
for the variety of its purple llripes; buC 
as the pure white of the flower is 
flained by the purple, fo as to appear 
of a dull colour, many prefer the com- 
mon white lily to this. 

The fort with variegated leaves is 
chiefly valued for its appearance in 
wihtpr and fpring, for as the kaves 
come up early in the autumn, which 
fpread thcmfelves on the grovnd, and 
being finely edged with broad yellow 
urines, they make a pretty appearance 
during the winter and fpring months. 
The flowers are the fame as thofe of the 
common fert, b'jt appear earlier in the 
dimmer, which maybe occaficned by 
the loots being weaker than thefe of 
the plain fort, for all variegated plants 
are weaker than thofe which are plain. 
The white lily with double flowers 
is lefs valuable than either of the other, 
bccaule their flowers rarely open well, 
enlefs they are covered with glaffes to 
flicker them from the rain and dew, 
fo they often rot without expanding. 
Thefe have not the agreeabie odour 
which the Angle fort is valued for. even 
when they open the faireft ; for as by 
the multiplicity of petals in the flow- 
ers, the parts of generation aie deftroy- 
ed, fo there is a want of the fecunda- 
ting powder from whence the odour is 
lent out. 

The white lily with dependent flow- 
ers was originally brought from Con- 
flanrinople. This is by fome fuppofed 
to be only a variety of the common 
fort, but is undoubtedl) a riiflindt fpe- 
cies; the flalk is much flenderer than 
the common, the leaves are narrower, 
and fewer in number; the flowers are 
not quite fo large, and the petals are 
more contracted at their bafe; thefe 
always hai.g downward, whereas thofe 
of the common fort grow erect. The 
(talks of this kind fometimes arev^ry 
broad and fiat, and appear at it two 
or three v. e;e joined together ; when 
this happens, they fuftain from f:xty 
to an hundred flowers, and fometimes 
more. 

Thefe forts are eafily propagated by 
eff -.ts, which the roots fend ou' in fo 
great plenty as to make it neetfwy to 
take them oft" every third yeai, to pre- 
vent their weakening the puncpal 
riots. The time for removing of the 
3 M roots 



L I L 



L I L 



foots Is at the end of Auguft, foon af- 
ter the ftalks decay, for if they are left 
longer in the ground they will foon put 
out new fibres and leaves, when it will 
be improper to remove them, becaufe 
that will prevent their rlovvering,the 
following fummer. They will thrive 
in almoft any foil or fitnation, and as 
they grow tall and fpread, fo they mud 
be allowed room ; therefore in finall 
gardens tiny take up too much fpace, 
but in large borders they are very or- 
namental. 

The common orange or red lily is as 
well known in the Englifh gardens as 
the white lily, and has been as long 
cultivated here. Th : s grows natural- 
ly in Auftria, and fome parts of Italy. 
It multiplies very fait by offsets from 
the roots, and is now fo common as to 
be almoft rejected ; however, in large 
gardens thefe (hould not be wanting, 
for they make a good appearance when 
in flower, if they are properly difpofed. 
Of this fort there are the following 
varieties : 

The orange lily with double flowers. 

The orange lily with variegated 
leaves. 

The fmaller orange lily. 

Thefe varieties have been obtained 
by culture, and are preferved in the 
gardens of florifts. They all flower in 
June and July, and their ftalks decay 
in September, when the roots may be 
tranfplanted, and their offsets taken off", 
which fhould be done once in two or 
three years, otherwife their bunches 
will be too large, and the flower- (talks 
weak. This does not put out new 
roots till toward fpring, fo that the 
roots may be tranfplanted any time af- 
ter the (talks decay till November. It 
will thrive in any foil or (ituation, but 
will be ftrongefi in a foft gentle loam 
not too moiff. 

The bulb-bearing fiery lily, feldom 
rifes much more than half the height 
of the former; the leaves are narrow- 
er, the flowers are fmaller, and of a 
brighrei flame colour; they are fewer 
in number, and itand more erect. 
Thefe come out a month before the 
common fort, and the (talks put out 
bulbs at every joint, which if taken 
off when the ftalks decay, and planted, 
will produce plants, fo that it may be 
propagated in plenty. There are feve- 
ral varieties of this, which are men- 
tioned as diftinct: fpecies, but are fup- 



pofed to have been produced by cul- 
ture. Thefe are, 

The greater, broad-leaved, bulb- 
bearing lily. 

The many-flowered bulb-bearing 
lily. 

The fmall bulb-bearing lily. 

Thu hoary bulb-bearing lily. 

All thefe forts of lilies will thrive 
under the fhr.de cf trees, fo may be 
introduced in plantations, and on the 
borders of woods, where they will have 
a good effect during the time they are 
in flower. 

There is alfo a great variety of the 
Maitagon lily; thefe differ from the 
common lilies, in having their petals 
refkxtd backward in form of a Turk's 
turban, from whence many give them 
the title of Turk's cap. In the gar- 
dens of the florifts, particularly thofe 
in Holland, they make a great variety 
of thefe flowers, amounting to the 
number of thirty or upward. 

All the forts of lilies may be propa- 
gated by offsets from the roots, which 
fome of the forts produce in plenty; 
but there are others which fend out very 
few, which occafions their prefent fear- 
city. The roots of all the forts of 
Martagon may be fafely taken up when 
their (ta)ks decay, anH if there is a ne- 
ceffity for keeping the roots out of the 
ground, if they are wrapped in dry 
mofs, they will keep perfectly well for 
two months; fo that if their roots are 
to be tranfported to a dlftant place, this 
precaution of wrapping them up is 
neceffiry; but where they are to be 
planted in the fame garden, there will 
be no occafion for this, efpecially if 
they are not kept too long out of the 
ground ; for if the place is ready to re- 
ceive the roots, they fhould be planted 
the beginning of October; fo if the 
roots are put in a dry cool place, they 
will keep very good without any farther 
cate ; but if the ground is not ready to 
receive them till later in the year, 
then it will be proper to cover the roots 
with dry fand, or wrap them in mofs 
to exclude the air, which, it they are 
much expofed to, will caufe their fciles 
to fhrink, which weakens the roots, 
and is fometimes the occafion of their 
rotting. 

Thefe roots fhould be planted fiveor 
fix inches deep in the ground, efpeci- 
ally if the foil is light and dry; but 
where the ground is moift, it will be 
proper 



L I L 



L I L 



proper to ra'ife the borders in which 
thefe are to be planted, five or fix in- 
ches above the level of the furface of 
the ground ; lor if the water rifes fo 
high in winter as to come near the 
roots, it will caufe them to rot ; and 
where the foil is naturally (tiff and fub- 
jeft to bind, there mould be a good 
quantity of fea-coal allies or rough 
fand, well mixed in the border, to fe- 
parate the parts, and prevent the 
ground from binding in the fpring, 
otherwife the roots will not fend up 
very ftrcng ftalks, nor will they make 
fo good increafe. 

As the Canada, Pompony, and the 
la(t fort of Martagons, are fomewhat 
tenderer than the others, fo if in very 
fevere winters the furface of the ground 
over them is covered with old tanners 
bark or fea-coal afhes, it will be a good 
way tofecme them from being injured 
by the froft ; ar.d in the fpring the co- 
vering may be removed, belore the 
roots fhoot up their ftalks. 

The roots of al) kinds of Martagons 
muft never be tranfplanted alter they 
have made (hoots, for that will fomuch 
weaken them, (if it does not entirely 
kill them) as not to be recovered in lefs 
than two or three years. 

All the forts of liiies and martagons 
may alfo be propagated byfowing their 
feeds, by which method fome new va- 
rieties may be obtained, provided the 
feeds are faved from the beft forts, efpe- 
cially the martagons, which are more 
inclinable to vary than the other lilies. 

Lily of the Valley, [Convalla- 
ria.~\ This plant delights in fhady 
places, in almoft any fituation. It is 
eafily propagated by parting the roots 
at any time from autumn to fpring. 

Lily Asphodel. See Day Lily. 

LlLY Daffodil. SeeDAFFODIL. 

Lily of Japan. Lily Daffodil. 

St. Breno's Lily. Day lily. 

Guernfey Lily. A fpecies of Day 
lily. 

Hyacinth Lily. See Sq_uills. 

May Lily. Lily of the valley. 

Mexican Lily. See Daffodil. 

Perfian Lily. Crown imperial. 

Superb Lily, [Gloriofa.~\ The fpe- 
cies of this plant are, i. Superb lily 
with longerleaves ending with clafpers. 
a. Superb lily with oval, fpear-fhaped, 
acute leaves. The firft fort grows na- 
turally on the coaft of Malabar, and 



alfo in Ceylon ; it has oblong flefhy 
roots of a whitifh colour, and a naufe- 
ous bitter tafte, from which srifes a 
round weak (talk, which requires fop- 
port to prevent its trailing on the 
ground. The (talks grow tothe height 
of eiitht or ten feet, garnifhed with 
fmooth leaves placed alternate, about 
eight inches long, and one and a half 
broad at their bafe, growing narrower 
till within two inches of theend, which 
runs out in a narrow point, ending 
with a tendril or clafper, by which it 
faftens to the neighbouring plants for 
fupport. At the upper end of the 
(lalk the flowers are produced, (landing 
upon (lender foqt-ftalks; they are 
com; ofed cf fix oblong petals, ending 
with acute points, which, on their firft 
opening, are of a yellowifh herbaceous 
colour, (landing at firft erect, but 
when fully opened, hang downward as 
the crown imperial and fritillaryj the 
petals turn quite back, and change to 
a very beautiful red flame colour, their 
acute points meeting at the foot-ftalk. 
It flowers in July, and often perfects 
its feeds in this country ; the (talks de- 
cay in autumn, and the roots remain 
inactive all the winter. The roots and 
every part of this plant are very poifon- 
ous, fo fhould net be put in the way 
of children. 

The fecond fort is a native of Sene- 
gal j it hath a climbing ftalk, which 
is garnifhed with fmooth leaves about 
two inches long and two broad, ending 
in acute points, with (hoi t tendril6or 
clafpers. The (talks as yet have not 
giown more than four feci high here. 
The leaves have a ftrong difagreeable 
fcent on being handled, fo as to be 
troublefome to the head, ii'tooneai, or 
long fmelt. 

Thefe plants are propagated by their 
roots ; thofe of the firft fort creep and 
multiply pretty faft. Thefe roots may 
be taken out of the ground when their 
(talks are decayed, and preferved in 
fand during the winter feafor, but 
they muft be kept in the ftove or a 
warm room, where they can receive 
no injury from the cold, and in the 
fpring they muft be planted in pol fil- 
led with light earth, and plunged into 
the tan-bed in the ftove; hue others 
chufe to let the roots continue in the 
ground all the winter, keeping the pots 
always in the tan-bed j where this is 
3 M a pra&ifed 



1 1 i 



LIM 



praftifed the plants fhould have very 
little Water in the winter, for as they 
are then in an inaifrive ftate, fo moifture 
at that time frequently rots them. 

Toward the latter end of March, or 
the beginning of April, their ftalks 
will appear, when there fhould-be fome 
tall iticks put down by them to fup- 
port them, otherwife they will trail 
over the neighbouring plants, and faf- 
ten to them by the tendrils which ate 
at the end- of. the leaves. The ftalks 
will rife ten or twelve feet high, if the 
foots are ftrong, and fome of them will 
pr< duce two or three flowers, which 
come out from the wings of the fialk 
near the top ; thefe flowers make a 
fine appearance in the ftove during 
their continuance, which is feldoni 
rriore than ten days or a fortnight. In 
the fummer when the plants are groov- 
ing, they will require frequently to be 
wu'ered, but they muff not. have it in 
too largequantities. The roots which 
are not taken out of the pots in winter, 
fhould be tranfplanted and parted the 
beginning of March, before they put 
out new fibres or ftalks, for they muft 
rot be removed when they are in a 
growing ftate. The pots in which 
thefe roots are planted, fhould not be 
too large, for unlefs they are confined, 
they will not put out ftrong ftalks ; the 
largeft roots may be planted in two- 
penny pots, but the fmall ones will 
require only pots of about five or fix 
inches over at the top. 

Water Lily, [Nymphaa.'] There 
are two forts of this plant, white and 
yellow, which grow naturally in wa- 
ter in many parts of England ; they 
have large roots, which are fattened in 
the ground, from which arife the flalks 
to the furface of the water, where the 
leaves expand and float; they are large 
and roundifh. Thofe of the fecond 
fort are heart-fhaped, the flowers arife 
between the leaves, and fwim upon 
the furface of the water. The white 
fort has a faint fweet fcent ; thefe ap- 
pear in July, and are fucceeded by large 
roundifh feed veflels, filled with fhining 
black feeds, which ripen toward the 
end of Auguft, when they link to the 
bottom of the water. 

The beft method to propagate thefe 
plants is, to procure fome of their feed 
veffels juft as they are ripe, and ready 
to open ; thefe fhould be thrown into 
canals, or large ditches of Handing 



water, where the feeds will fink to the 
bottom, and the following fpring the 
plants will appear floating upon the 
furface of the water, and in June of 
July will produce their beautiful large 
flowers. When they are once fixed to 
the place, they will multiply exceed- 
ingly, fo as to cover the whole furface 
of water in a few years. 

LIME. The employing lime ir» 
hufbandry, has been one cf the grew 
articles of modern improvement. ir» 
that fcience : and it is now fo well un- 
derifood, that there isreafon to believe 
the ufe of it will foonbe univerfal. As 
there is a great deal of difference be- 
tween one kind of lime and another, 
and many niceties to be obferved in the 
ufe of it, nothing can be more 
needful than a regular acccunt of its 
nature and effedts. Lime is one of 
thofe things that are able to do great 
good ; and in confequence it is capa- 
ble alio of doing a great deal of harm ii> 
the hands of the unfkilful. It would 
be well that every farmer in England, 
were acquainted with the virtue of 
lime, but it is neceffary at the fame 
time that he perfectly underftand how 
it is to be ufed. 

In the firft place, lime is of feveral 
kinds ; for it may be made from a 
great many different materials, and it 
partakes of their feveral natures. 

Lime may be made of lime-ftone, 
marble, chalk, fea metis, and many 
other things; but the two principal 
kinds are thofe made of lime-ftone and 
chalk. Thefediffer very much in their 
nature, but we cannot properly fay 
that either is beft, for they feverally 
are fitteft for different kinds of lapd : 
the true knowledge the farmer fhould 
have of thefe kinds is, to what purpofe 
each is fuited. 

We would advife every farmer to 
burn his own lime, and (or that pur- 
pofe fhall give him fome very eafy rules 
for the choice of his materials. In 
fome places he may find both lime- 
ftone and chalk upon his ground, he 
fhould then make both kinds; but if 
only one fort of materials can be had, 
he muft make amends for that defect, 
by a more careful ftudy of the way to 
ufe it. 

Chalk every one knows at fight : of 

this we fhall only fay, that the hardefr 

makes the beft lime, and this is for the 

farmer's advantage : for the foft marly 

chalk 



i i m 



LIM 



chalk is fit for his ufe in its natural 
condition, and the harder he can make 
tit by this practice of burning it. 

Lime (tone is much more common 
than the farmer may imagine. It is 
of various colours and degrees ofhard- 
nefs ; but inftead of referring him to 
the lkilful for chufing it for him, we 
fliail give him an eafy method ot doing 
it for himfelf. 

Let him take a fmall bottle of aqua 
fortis with him when he goes over his 
land to look after lime-ftone, and let 
him pour a little of it upon every ftone 
that looks fit for the purpofe: it will 
hifs and bubble up when it falls on 
lime-ftone, but it will run off from all 
others like water. This the farmer 
may depend upon as an infallible rule, 
that every ftone which makes aqua 
fortis bubble is fit for lime ; and no 
ftone but what does, will ever make 
lime freely, or fit for his ufe. 

Having thus found what materials 
his land affords for this excellent ma- 
nure, let him build his kiln for prepa- 
ring it. This is beft done in a fquare 
hole dug for that purpofe in the 
ground, in fome wafte place that lies 
conveniently for the materials. The 
kiln is to be in fhape like a funnel, 
wide at top and narrower all the way 
to the bottom. It mult befirmly built, 
and lined on the infide with a wall of 
lime-ftone. 

Toward the bottom of this kiln there 
is to be a hole to let out the allies of 
the fuel : and above this there mult be 
an iron grate on which to lay the fir ft 
parcel of the materials. Some fupply 
the place of a grate by an arch-work 
of ftone, the fame with the lining of 
the kiln, but the grate is very much the 
beft method. 

When the kiln is thus prepared, 
the farmer is to get together, in two 
parcels, his materials for the lime, 
whether that be chalk or ftone ; and 
his fuel. 

This fuel he may fuit to his beft con- 
venience, for almoft any thing that 
will burn will do. Coals or wood 
ferve equally well : or very good lime 
may be made with furze bufhes, peat, 
or fern; which laft, though fo light a 
weed, burns with a furprizing force. 

When all is ready, he is to begin by 
laying a layer of the ftone or chalk 
loofely upon the- grate, and over that a 
layer of fuel; thus he is to continue 



putting a layer of one, and a layer of 
anot'^r, till the kiln is quite fu i, ta- 
king care that the uppermost layer be 
of fuel, not of ftone or chalk. 

All being thus prepared, fire is to 
be given to the fuel at the z<h hole, 
and it i» to be left to burn up, and the 
lime will be made o: itfelf, without 
farther trouble. 

As to the quantity Of fuel, a hundred 
of tbtee-foct faggots will bt forty 
bufheis of chalk. Iffea-coalu 6, 
ten bufhel will ftand for the huhdicd 
of faggots ; and the u'me will be made 
in four and twenty hours. 

Lime-ftone, according to its hard- 
nefs, takes more time, and a larger 
quantity of fuel; but in general, it 
anfwers very well to the expence; 
being,- on moft occafions, very much 
preferable to the lime that is made of 
chalk. 

As to the quantity of the lime, chalk 
lofes about one third of its bulk in 
burning ; ftone lofes alfo in propor- 
tion ; thirty bu/hels of chalk make 
twenty of good lime, and fo in propor- 
tion, according to the nature of th« 
ftone. 

Where chippings of marble can be 
had, they make the fineft and richeft 
lime for manure in the world : but 
thefe can feldom be in the farmer's 
reach. 

In Derbyshire they throw our, 
among tha refufe of the lead mines, a 
kind of mining ftone, which they call 
fpar. It looks fomewhat iikechryftal, 
Only not fo clear: or like large lumps 
of bay fait. It is whitifhor brownifn, 
or of other colours, and fome of it 
that rifes in fquare lumps is ufed for 
ornamenting of grottos. This is an 
excellent ftone for the making of lime. 
They burn it wherever it is to be had, 
and drefs their barrenneft lime-ftone 
lands with it : they find one bufhel of 
this Jime as good as two of any other 
kind whatfoever. 

The fofteft kind of chalks, and fome 
forts of marie, may alfo be burnt to 
lime with great profit. As to the 
marie, one bufhel of it in lime is of 
equal virtue with five in the common 
way : and in the choice of what kind 
to ufe, the farmer muft have recourfe 
to his aqua fortis, fome will ferment 
and rife in bubbles with it, and fome 
will not. That which ferments is fit 
for lime, and the other is not, 

Thefe 



l r m 



L I M 



Thrfe foft fubftances are beft burnt 
with fern, or other light firing, and 
tig h teen ho'jrs generally bring them to 
lime. 

Lime is heft laid on a fummer fal- 
low fur turnips, etc. or on a lay a year 
or two before it is ploughed up ; in this 
manner it w.Ul be moft beneficial by 
diltribcting its properties to the lanrl 
gradually and equally.^ perhaps even 
then it will be better mi:;ed with clung 
or earth than laid on by itfelf; it is 
chiefly beneficial en fandy and gravelly 
foils, and is laid on from lixty to an 
hundred and fifty bufhels per acre, 
fometimes two hundred, 

I.; nes when fiefh burnt are highly 
acrimonious andcorrofive. In this ft ite 
they arc employed in fome externa! ap- 
plication's as a depilatory; and for 
encreafing the power of fixt alcaline 
falts, either for ibe purpofes of a cau- 
ftic, or to enalile them the more rea- 
dily to diffolve oils. If the lime b.ex- 
pofed for a length of time to the air, it 
iails by degrees into a powder, and lo- 
fCi gi tally of its acrimony. Water 
poured directly upon quicklime takes 
■up a confiderable portion of it : the fo- 
lution has a femewhat ftyptie tafte, 
drying the mouth, without any acri- 
mony ; neverthelefs the temaining calx 
proves almolt infipid. This liquor 
does not effervefce eitherwith acids or 
alcalitrs, but is rendtrcd turhid and 
milky by both; it prevents tlie coagu- 
lation of milk, and hence isfometimes 
made ufe of along with milk diets: 
agitated with expreffed oils, it unites 
with thern into a thick compound re- 
commtni:"' bj Dr. Stare againft burns 
and inflammations. Lime, water, if 
drank to th . quantity of a quarter of a 
pint three or lour times a day, and 
continued for a length of time, litis 
been found ferviceable in fcrophulous 
cafes, and other obflinate chronic difor- 
ders. It generally piomotes urine, and 
rot unfrequently the cuticular dif- 
charge ; for the molt part it binds the 
belly, and fometimes occafions trou- 
blefome cofti venefs, unlefs this effect be 
eccafionally provided againft by the 
interpofuion of proper medicines. It 
dees good fervice in debility and laxity 
«i the vifcera in general; in thefe of 
the uterine and feminal veffels it is par- 
ticularly recommended. Care muft be 
had not to exhibit this medicine too 
liberally in hot bilious conflitutions, 



or where the patient is much emacia- 
ted, or the appetite weak, or at the 
time of any critical or periodical eva- 
cuations. Its principal ufe is in cold, 
moift, flu^gilh, and corpulent h a i; i t s . 

Lime or Linden Tree, [Ti/m.} 
The fpecies of this plant. are, i. The 
broad-lfar^d flowering lime tree. 3. 
The red-twigged lime tree. 3. The 
green-twigged lime tree. 4. Tlvs 
fmall-leaved iime tree, of a tawny grcLr, 
colour both in the leaf and bark. 5, 
The ftriped-leaved lime tree. 

The fi.ft-mentioned fort is the fineft 
plant of, the fpecies. The fecond is 
next to be preferred ; it has alio large 
leaves, grows to be a ftately tree, and 
the fhini g deep red colour of its bark 
has a chearful and agreeable effe£t in 
winter. The third and fourth forts 
arc much inferior in beauty, and grow 
in a loofe and ftraggiing manner, nor 
ever make fo lirait or lofty trees j they, 
are therefore unworthy of propagation, 
in comparifon of the two former, 
kinds; (nor fhould we have named 
them, but to warn the planters of lime 
trees, to beware of the forts they pur- 
chafe, as the nurfiries in this country 
generally ahound molt in thefe two laft 
forts, which, perhaps, not being known 
to every nuTferyman, are all indifcri- 
minately raifed and fold together, and 
which, when placed by the fides of 
walks, or in the (trait lines of avenues, 
from the irregularity of their form, 
and difference of growth, very much 
deface fuch plantations.) 

The lime tree may be propagated by 
feeds, which ripen in Oftober, and 
fhould be carefully preferved in dry 
fand till March, when they fhould be 
fown in a light rich border. It may 
alfo be propagated by layers like the 
elm. 

Lime. A fpecies of the lemon 
growing in the Weft-Indies, where it 
is preferred to the lemon. 

Lime for Birds. See Birdl iaje. ^ 

Limin c- Wheat. An operation of */£«_y 
putting wheat into fome fteep or liquor, Af*y, 
Let ftone lime be put into water, in 
the proportion of a bufhel of the former 
to feventy gallons of the latter ; ftir it 
well, and the next day pour off tha 
ciear water into another veffel, and 
add three pecks of common filt, to the 
above quantity, and flir it till all the 
fait is dilfolved, when it will be fit for 
wfe. Put the wheat in a bafket and 
fteep 



L I Al 



LIN 



rteep k in the water, Jlirrin^ the wheat fame morning ; but if the feed lay and S»*^ 



for a fhort time, and Summing off the 
light grains- 1 ; drain the bafket ior a 
mimite 01 two, according t<> its lize, 
and in a few hours after the wheat 
may be fown. Mr. Reynolds fa\s. 
that in the courfe of thirty years, he 
never knew wheat prove fmutty that 
was ftecpesl in this pickle. 

Colonel Plummer's 'method has alfo 
been recommended, which is as fol- 
lows. Fir ft wain the wheat through 
three or foiir feveral waters, ftirrmg it 
well each time, and lkim off the light 
grains. 

Put the water in a tub with a tap ; 
flir as much fait as will make an egg 
fwim ; tlien add as much more, flir it 
very well, and put in two or three 
pounds of allum beat fine, and flir it 
well. 

Ufe it as ordinary brines, only fteep 
the wheat thirty or forty hours, for 
lefs fignifies nothing. 

Take the wheat out the night before 
you fow it, and lift fome flaked lime on 
it. And add frefh quantities of the 
ingredients as wanted. 

Mr. Bradley obferves, that many 
farmers fteep their wheat in brine, >et 
have fmuttywheat, hecaufe they do not 
make their brine flrong enough ; or 
take their wheat cut too foon. 

A late writer djrefts to iteep the feed 
in rain water, in which bay fait is 
mixed, till it will bear an egg, for 
thirty hours; and after tofpread it on 
a floor, with fine lime mixed with it, 
and ftirred together till each feed ieaves 
clinging to another, and till it feetris 
candyed with lime. 

There are great variety of other re- 
ceipts given to the fame purpofe; and of the hair bag, a free paffage is al- 
that which Mr. Ellis fesnris to value lowed it. 



N 






drained twelve hours rirlt it would be 
better. 

Care mini be taken, if it be not 
fowed foon, that i: be not left to helot'.*; 
thick together, which feems agreed crt 
ail hands to be prejudicial, as it wGuld 
glow before fowing- 

On the other hand, a correspondent 
to the Farm- r's Magazine, Mr. Cotte- 
rtl of Warficld, Beiks, afil-rts, he does 
rot lime his wheat at all, and has never 
bad anv fmut in it. [vol.iii page ici.J,^ * v 

LfNDEN. TREE, Set Lm&. ^ N^> 

LING. Heath: \ ^1 

LINIMENT. A foft ointment or v -^ 'a^ 
embrocation. rvv^ 

LINE N. To render linen cloth rl ^ 
impenetrable to rain, take two oun- "£ ^ 
ces of turpentine, of pounced litharge s ^ 
cne pound ; boil the whole together 'fii^N r- 
two or three pounds of linfetd <>il» ^ rv,^| 
With the above mixture do over fonts ^ ? 
of the finert fort of linen, or luteftring, s. v 
and let it dry in the fun. This pro- %J \ . 
cefs will render it totally impregnable "f^ f* 
to any fort of natural water, and far ["J^ 
from meiting, the fluff gels harder by ' 
being expofed to the heat. 

LINSEED, The feed of flax. &* 
Flaz, 

Linseed Oil. This and other ex- 
preffed oils are obtained from certain 
■'icd; and kernels of fruits, by pounding 
them in a flor.e niortar, and then ih» 
eluding them in a canvas bag. which is 
wrapt in a hair cloth, and committed 
to the prefs not heated. 

The cnnv.-is, if employed alone, 
would be fmieezcd fo cloie to the plates 
of the piefs as to prevent (he < il from 
running down : by the '■interpcfition 



himfelf much upon, mentions the dif- 
fering three pounds of copperas in 
two or three gallons of fcalding water, 
flir it till it is dilTolved, and when juft 
warm, pcur it over two or three bufh- 



The expreffion of the oil is greatly 
facilitated by htat; hence thofe who 
prepare thefe oiis for mechanical ufiss, 
heat the plates of the prefs gopfi.de- 
rably. For medicinal purpofes, this is 



els of wheat. A quarter of an hour by no means allowable, as the oil be- 
after pcur over all the wheat (e?a, as comes lefs foft and palatable, and is 
much mudgei-hcle water as will make lubject to grow rancid, 
the whole fwim four inches ; and iiir- Nor mult the oils be kept in a warm 
ring itfufnciently, you -nay (kirn of all place after the expreffion. Expeied 
the feeds of weeds, and the light corns but for a few days to a heat no greater 
that occafion fmut and_nepper wheat, than that of the human body, they lofe 
The feed is to lie in this liquor for their emollient quality, become ex- 
tweive hours, or if wanted, fix, or four tremely rancid and acrimonious; and 
or two hours .; then draw it &1I clear in this ftate, inftead of foftening and 
©ff, and lime it direftjy for fowing the relaxing, initate and inflame. 



LI (^ 

' So much are thefe oils difpofed to 
this difagreeable alteration, that they 
frequently contract an acrimony before 
theirexpreffion from thefubjedt : hence 
the undtuous feeds and kernels are often 
met with very rancid. This obferva- 
tion affords an ufeful caution, to be 
very careful in the choice of thefe fub- 
ftances : almondsare particularly liable 
to inconveniences of this kind. 

LION'S LEAF, [Leentke.] This is 
a large tuberous-rooted plant growing 
in the Archipelago and about Aleppo, 
where it flowers about Chriftmas. 
There are two fpecies both of thern 
perennials, and propagated by feeds. 

Lion's Foot, \Ca:ananche.] There 
are two fpecies of this plant, one with 
long narrow hairy leaves with jagged 
edges; the other hath broader leaves 
lefs jagged ; the firft is perennial and 
propagated by feeds or flips, the other 
annua], and propagated by feeds only. 

Lion's Tail, [Leonurus,] This 
plant is a nativeof Ethiopia, riling with 
afhrubby ltalk fevenor eight feet high, 
bearing flowers fhaped like the dead- 
nettle, of a beautiful deep golden colour, 
in October or November. Another fort 
is found at the Cape of Good Hope, 
the flowers of which are r.ot quite fo 
deep coloured . Both forts are propa- 
gated by cuttings. 

LIQU1DAMBER. This tree grows 
plentifully in Virginia, and in feveral 
other parts of North America, where 
it rifes with a ftrait naked fiem to the 
height of fifteen or fixteen feet, and 
branches out regularly to the height of 
forty feet or upward, forming a pyra- 
midal head. The leaves areangular, 
and fhaped fomewhat likethofe of the 
lefi'er maple, having five lobes, but are 
of a dark green colour ; a fti ong, fweet, 
glutinous fubflance exudes through 
the pores of the leaves in warm wea- 
ther, which renders them clammy to 
the touch. 

The flowers are generally produced 
early in the fpring of the year, before 
the leaves are expanded, which are of 
a faffron colour, and grow in fpikes 
from the extremity of the branches j 
after thefe are pall, the fruit fwelis to 
the fize of a walnut, being perfectly 
round, having many protuberances, 
each having a fmali hole and a fhort 
tail, which extends half an inch. 

This is commonly propagated by 
layers in England j but thofc plants 



% I <^ 

which are raifed from feeds, grow t» 
be much fairer trees. 

The feeds of this tree commonly re- 
main in the ground a whole year before 
the plants conic up, unlefs they are 
fown in the autumn ; fo that the fureft 
way to raife them is, to fow the feeds 
in boxes or pots of light earth, which 
may be placed in a fhady fituation du- 
ring the ftrfl fummer, and in autumn 
they may be removed where they may 
have more fun; but if the winter 
fhould prove fevers, it will be proper to 
cover them with peafe-haulm, or other 
light covering, which fhould be con- 
ftantly taken off in mild weather. The 
following fpring, if thefe boxes or pots 
are placed upon a moderate hot-bed, 
it will being up the plants early, fo 
that they will have time to get ftrength 
before winter: the firft and fecond 
winters it will be proper to fcreen the 
plants from fevere froft, but afterward 
they will bear the cold very well. 

LIQUOR to ivajh old Deeds, Writing:, 
&c. Take five or fix galls, bruife 
them, and put them into a pint of the 
very heft white wine, let it ftand in the 
fun two days ; you will by trial foon 
fee whether it is too firongortooweak; 
dip a brufh into ^t, and waih the part 
wanted to be cleared up. 

L I QJJ ORIOE, [Glycyrrhiza.] 
There are three forts of this plant, 
with fmooth, with prickly, and with * 
hairy pods. The firft fort is medici- 
nal, the other two are preferved forcu- 
riofity. 

Almoft all plants thrive beft in a rich 
foil, but liquorice will not grew inany 
other. There muft be one requifite 
more in the land for this purpofe, which 
is a deep foil; for the thriving of li- 
quorice depends altogether upon the 
free depth of the mould, and its length 
of root. 

We expect to fee the root a yard or * 
more in length, and it muft have free 
paffage, otherwife it will not grow 
ftrait; this regularity of fhape is not 
only a great beauty, but a real advan- 
tage, for the crooked roots are never fo 
tender and juicy as the others, nor do 
they fo foon arrive at their due growth. 

The proper ground for liquorice is 
that which has a deep coat of mellow 
earth, a black mould that begins di- 
rectly under the turf, and runs three 
fpit deep, without any great mixture of 
Other matter in the way, Thio is the 

befj 



L I CL 



L ICL 



natural foil for this valuable plant, but 
there are others which will do by na- 
ture, and others yet that may be fo 
prepared by art, as very well to anfwer 
the purpofe. 

After this fine black mould, the next 
foil in nature is a deep rich loam, that 
has not much of the clay in its compo- 
fition, and has a good deal of fine 
garden mould among it. 

The third natural foil that we fhall 
name, as fit for this plant, is the deep, 
warm, faiidy kind, which is not bar- 
ren, but with its lightnefs and warmth 
has fome richnefs. 

In all thefe foiis the depth ouj^ht to 
be at leaft a yard, before there is any 
h?.rd bottom, and that mud be exami- 
ned ; for if it prove a clay the liquo- 
rice will never thrive, becaufe of the 
coldnefs and dampnefs that naturally 
attend fuch an under ftratum, the wet 
lodging upon it and fiat ving the whole 
foil. 

What the liquorice requires for per- 
fect thriving, confiits in four articles ; 
depth to penetrate, lightnefs in the foil 
that it may make its way eafily, 
warmth to promote its growth, and 
richnefs to afford it nourilhment. 

Liquorice, though raifed in fields, 
requires a fort of garden culture. The 
fpade is a much more proper inftru- 
ment for preparing the land for its re- 
ception, than the plough; for it re- 
quires to be broke and rendered fine, 
to a depth that the field inftrumems 
can never reach. 

There is this comfort however to 
the huibandman in refpedl of it, that if 
the land require a very expenfive til- 
lage, the lefs of it ferves ; a few acres 
will yield a vaft produce in this root, 
and the price is fo much greater than 
that of molt other things he can raife, 
that there is no reafon to grudge the 
charges. 

When a proper piece of land is 
pitched on for the purpofe, let it be 
thoroughly dunged with good rotten 
dung; after being ploughed upjn au- 
tumn, and having Iain all the winter to 
mellow, in the fpring let it be dug in 
the following manner : 

Let the labourers be fent in about 
the middle of February, and let the 
matter's own eye be over them, or that 
of fome trufty perfon in his Head. They 
mull dig every part of the earth tho- 
roughly, no lefs than three fpits deep 5 
Vol. I. 



and as they lay it, mud carefully break 
every lump, though but fmall, that the 
ground may be fmooth and level at the 
furface, and be in a manner as fine as 
fand all the way down, This will ne- 
ver be honeftly done without great 
looking after, and it is very efTential 
that it be fo done ; the expenceis con- 
fiderable, but the profit anfwers ; and 
of this the hufbandman maybe per- 
fectly a flu red, that by every milling he 
would fave in this work, he will lofe ten 
in the crop. 

When the whole piece of ground is 
thus prepared, the liquorice is to be 
planted ; and in this the fame care and 
caution are nectflary as in the reft, for 
theleait omiffion, or the leaft carelefs- 
nefs, will be attended with lofs. The 
flrrt care in this refpect is, the choice 
of proper fets or plants ; and the fe- 
cond is, the placing them properly in 
the ground. 

For the choice all depends upon their 
being in good condition, and having a 
good bud, or as the planters call it art 
eye. They are to be got from the feeds, 
or the heads of the old roots ; and their 
beft length is a toot, cr thereabouts. 

The good condition of thefe will be 
feen by their fcundnefs, freflinefs, and 
clean furface; and the Itrength of the 
bud or eye, is an article in which none 
can be deceived. 

It will be toward the beginning of 
March, by that time the ground is thus 
perfectly prepared, and the fets are cho- 
fen, then they are to be planted, in the 
following manner : 

Let there be got ready a gardener's 
line, of fuch length as to reach acrofs 
the ground if (mail; if larger, it may 
be removed from diflance to diftance, 
a couple of (ticks fharpened at one end, 
and a ball of thick cord, is all that is 
needful for this purpofe. Befule the 
line, there is to be a fetting flick, 
which may be ot any convenient length 
at pjleafu're, but it is belt to have it of 
a certain dimenfion, that it may ferve 
as a meafure ; and lor this reafon it 
fhculd be jufl a foot nnd half long, 
with a handle like that of a fpade, and 
a point head, with a fquare piece of 
iron in the manner of a very large 
fpike, hollowed at the large end to re- 
ceive the point of the wood. 

Thefe things being ready, let the 

ftake to which one end ct rhe line is 

fattened, be iiuck into the ground a 

3 N foot 



L I Q_ 



L II 



foot from the edge of the dug part, and 
the line let loofe, that the other flake 
may be carried to the other end of the 
ground, or as far as the line will by its 
length permit, and then it muft be 
ftuck into the ground, drawing the line 
tight, at the fame diftance from the 
edge of the prepaied or wrought part. 
Thus there will be a ftrait line drawn 
along the fkirt of the ground, within 
a foot of the raw earth. 

Let the planter now, taking his fets 
in his apron, and the fetting ftick in 
his hand, begin to plant, placing the 
firft fet at half the flick's length from 
the edge of the ground. When he has 
fet this, let him meafure from it along 
taeline, the length of the fstting ftick, 
and then plant another, and fo on to 
the end. This is very familiarly and 
eafily done, and the manner is this : 

Let the end of the fetting ftick, which 
'i pointed with iron, be thruftinto the 
ground, and preffed till near the whole 
be in ; let it not be ftirred about, but 
juft enough to make an edge, that the 
earth may not fall together. The fet- 
ting flick being gently drawn out, 
there will remain an open hole of about 
fixteen inches deep ; into this a fet of 
the liquorice is to be put, thrufting it 
carefully and evenly in, till the head of 
it, where the eye or bud is, be one inch 
beneath the furface ; then the bottom 
end will be about the bottom of the 
hole, and a little mould being drawn 
over the top, the fet is compleatly well 
planted. 

One being fet in, the reft is very 
eafy ; the fetting ftick is to be laid 
alone the line, its point juft at the head 
of the fet, and its other end marks the 
place where the next is to be planted : 
the length of the fetting ftick being a 
foot and half, and that being the mod 
advantageous diftance at which liquo- 
rice can be placed in the row. 

The fecond fet is to be planted ex- 
actly in the fame manner as the firft, 
and fo on till there be a row planted 
all along the line. 

When one row is thus planted, the 
next is to be fet into the ground. As 
the beft diftance for liquorice is to 
plant it in rows a foot and a half, fo the 
beft diftance of the feveral rows one 
from another, is two foot and a half; 
and in thefe they are beft fet not di- 
rectly oppofite one to another, but in 
fiie chequer or quincunx order. 



To execute this, the firft row being 
planted, the fticks are to be removed 
two foot and a half diftant from the 
firft. This done, let the planter take 
a frefh parcel of the fets into' his apron, 
and. taking the fetting ftick in his hand, 
let Jiim make his firft hole directly op- 
pofite the middle fpace between ths 
firft and fecond fet of the former row. 
When the firft fet is planted there, 
according to the directions juft given, 
let him lay down his ftick from ths 
top of that fet, and meafuring thus the 
due diftance of a foot and a half, there 
plant another. 

This he is to continue the whole 
length of the line, and there will then 
be a fecond row at two foot and a half 
diftance from the firft, and each plant 
in it will ftand oppofite to the middle 
vacant fpace between every two of the 
others. 

When this fecond row is planted, 
the line is again to be removed two 
foot and a half farther into the field, 
and a third row is to be planted. The 
feveral fets in this third row are to be 
placed directly oppofite to thofe in the 
firft row ; and when this is done, every 
four plants of the firft and third row, 
will have one plant of the fecond row 
in their centre. 

This method is to be continued in- 
terchangeably through the whole field, 
and this is what is called the quincunx 
manner of planting; the effect of which) 
is, that every way wherein one looks 
at the plantation, when the ftalks are 
rifen, there appear regular rows of then* 
the whole extent of the field, with re- 
gular alleys between them. 

The earth is to be finely raked, and 
the whole furface of the field left quite 
even ; nothing appearing upon it. 
This is its condition in the middle of 
March, and thus it is to be left, ex- 
pecting the advantages of fo regular and 
judicious a piece of hufbandry. 

The heads of the young plants will 
quickly appear, and they are to be left 
to themfelves to make their fhoot. 

Toward the latter end of fpring there 
will be weeds in abundance in ths 
intervals, and in the fpaces between 
plant and plant in the rows. They 
will be lefs abundant afterwards, be- 
caufe the liquorice will be better efta- 
blifhed ; but thefe deep-rooted plants 
do not draw the nourifhment away 
from thofe flight annual weeds, like 
thof«. 



L I 0_ 

tbofe other larger growths that fpread 
out nearer the furface. 

The weeds are at this time to be de- 
stroyed, which may be very eafily done 
with the hand-hoe. 

When the weeds are cut up, being 
annuals, they will almoft entirely rot, 
and ferve as manure. There will be 
no roots .of perennial plants in the 
ground, for they will have been picked 
out in the feveral dreffings ; the feeds 
of thefe annuals are continually coming 
in by accident into the ground, and 
they mult be deftroyed as they rife. 

As it will be fome time before any 
Others rife to a height after this firft 
dreffing of the ground, there muft be 
care taken of them when they do. 

This may be done at a very little 
charge, and the only care needful is to 
avoid cutting or wounding the liquo- 
rice plant. This will keep the field 
clear during the fummerj and in au- 
tumn, when the leaves are fallen, it 
will be very well worth while to dig 
up the whole ground one full fpit deep 
between the rows. 

Two months after this digging, 
when all is fmooth and even, let there 
be fcattered a fmall quantity of very 
rotten dung all over the field. This 
will cover the tops of the plants, and 
defend them from the feverity of the 
frofts, that are now to be expected : 
and the rains that fall afterward will, 
in a manner, diflblve the very fubftance 
of the rotten dung, carrying its riches 
into the heart of this fine loofe earth, 
for the full nourifhment of the plants. 
Thus let the dung lie till fpring, and 
then take an opportunity of a time 
when the earth is between wet and dry, 
and will work eafily. Let the inter- 
vals between row and row be all tho- 
roughly well dug again one good fpit 
deep as before. 

This will bury the rotted dung 
among the mould, where it will ftill 
work by its latent fermentation, and 
break and divide as well as enrich it 
farther. 

This done, the remainder of the 
growth is only to be watched and 
boed during fummer, and at autumn 
the earth is to be once dug between 
the rows. 

The time liquorice root takes from 
its planting, to grow to the utmofl 
perfection is two years and half ; that 
it, three fujnmer* *nd two winters, 



L I <^. 

when we name three years for the time 
of the ground's lying for it, the winter 
before the planting is included, when 
the foil is preparing for the reception 
of its roots in fpring: this half year 
muft be counted by the farmer, be- 
caufe it is as entirely neceffary to be 
beftowed upon the crop, as any part 
of that wherein it is growing. 

The time of gathering the roots for 
fale, is late in autumn, when the root 
is full, plump, and very firm to the 
touch: its colour is deeper on the out- 
fide, and the yellow within is clearer : 
its juice is thick, and the tafte fweer. 

Liquorice is almoft the only fweet 
that quenches thirft, whence it was 
called by the Greeks adipfon ; Galen 
takes notice, that it was employed in 
this intention in hydropic cafes, to pre- 
vent the neceffity of drihking. Mr. 
Fuller, in his mcdic'wa gymnafiica, recom- 
mends this root as a very ufeful pecto- 
ral, and fays it excellently foftens acri- 
monious humours, at the fame time 
that it proves gently detergent: and 
this account is warranted by experience. 

Juke or Extract of Liquorice. 
Lightly boil frefh liquorice roots in 
water, prefs the decoclion through a 
ftrainer, and after the faeces have fub- 
fided, evaporate it until it no longer 
fticks to the fingers, taking care, to- 
wards the end of the operation, to 
prevent an empyreuma. 

It is convenient, before boiling the 
root, to cut it tranfverfely into fmall 
pieces, that it may more readily give 
out its virtues to light coition : if the 
boiling is long continued, the rich fweet 
tafte, for which this preparation is va- 
lued, will be greatly injured. For the 
fame reafon, the quantity of water 
ought to be no larger than is abfolutely 
neceffary to extradt the virtues of the 
root: a quart, or at molt three pints, 
will be fully fufricient for a pound of 
liquorice, it would be of considerable 
advantage to the preparation, and pro 
bably (when made in quantity) lefs 
expenfive to the preparer, to ufe inftead 
of the decoction, juice of liquorice, 
preffed out betwixc iron rollers, after 
the manner pradtifed abroad for ob- 
taining the juice of the fugar cane. 

Large quantities of extradt of liquo- 
rice have been ufually brought to us 
from Spain, and other foreign coun- 
tries, but it is very rarely met with in 
the fhops in perfection ; the makers of 

3 N a thin 



LI V 



L I V 



this commodity both at home and 
abroad, being either very flovenly in 
its preparation, ordefignedly mixing it 
withfar.d, and other impurities. When 
made with due care, it is exceedingly 
fwcet, not at all bitterifh or naufeous, 
more agreeable in tafte than the root 
kfelf, of a pleafant fme!l, a reddifh 
brown colour; and when drawn out 
into firings of a bright golden colour, 
totally foiuble in water, without depo- 
siting any faeces. 

Spanish Lio^uorice. Juice or 
extract of liquorice brought from 
Spain. 

Wild Li qj; or ice, [slftragalus.] 
Liquorice Vetch, A trailing plant 
growing wild in many paits of England 
where chalk abounds, but is feldom 
admitted into gardens. 

LITTER. Straw, &c. laid under 
horfes. 

LITHARGE, [Lythagyrus.] A pre- 
paration of lead, ufually in form of foft 
flakes, of a yellowifh reddifh colour. 
If calcined lead be urged with a hafly 
fire, it melts into the appearance of 
oil, and on cooling concretes into li- 
tharge. Created part of the lit! arge 
met with in the (hops, is produced in 
ihe purification pf filver from lead, 
and the refining of gold and filver by 
means of this metal : according to the 
degree of fire and other circumftances, 
it proves of a pale or deep colour; the 
firft is called litharge of filver, the 
other litharge of gold. 

LITHONTRIPT1CS. Medicines 
which either break, or are fuppcfed to 
have the virtue ol breaking flones in 
the urinary paffages. 

LIVE EVER. S^Houselefk. 

LIVE IN IDLENESS. The violet 
fo called. 

LIVE-LONG. Orpine. 

LIVER, ObfiruBhn of. This is a 
diforder to which cows and oxen are 
very liable ; the farmers are acquainted 
very well with the fvmptoms of it, 
though not with the caufe; it is what 
they call by the general name of an 
inward ncknefs. 

The figns by which it is known are 
thefe, an uric i nl-le in ail their 

aftions; and a iazinefs or unwiiling- 
nefs to move. To this is to be added 
a fcurfynefs, and harfh drynefs of their 
lips, and a drynefs of their notes in a 
morning. 

When cattle are well, if they be ob- 



ferved in a morning, there is always a 
drop of dew. like a pearl, hangs upon 
the nofe, but when they are fick it is 
commonly wanting. In cafe of an 
obftruclion of the liver, the remedy is 
this: 

Take a pound of great celandine, 
dug up with the roots, cut it all to 
pieces, leaves, {talks, and roots toge- 
ther, and put it into a pot, with two 
gallons of water, let it boil up a few 
minutes; then add half a pound of 
madder root, ten ounces of turmeric, 
and four ounces of frefh roots of fen- 
nel. Boil thsfe very well, and then 
ftrain off the liquor. 

Get a hat-crown full of wood-lice, 
they are common enough about de- 
cayed timber, and undertones. Pound 
thefe with a pint of white wine, and 
fqueeze out the juice, then add this to 
the ltrained liquor. 

Shake up this every time it is to be 
ufed, and warm half a pint of it for a 
dofe. It fhould be given every night 
and morning for ten days. This is the 
ufual time required to perform a per- 
fect cure: it may be fooner, or it may 
require a few days longer; buttheme- 
dicine will hardly fail. 

LIVERWORT, [Hepatka.] There 
are four or five fpecies of this plant, 
both fingle and double, which produce 
abundance of flowers in February and 
March, before the leaves appear. The 
colours of the flowers are various, 
white, red, and blue. The red and 
blue often become double, the white 
very feldom. 

The fingle forts produce feeds every 
year, whereby they areeafily propaga- 
ted, and alfo new flowers may be that 
way obtained. The beft feafon for 
fowing of the feeds is in the beginning 
of Auguft, either in pots or boxes of 
light earth, which fhould be placed fo 
as to have only the morning fun until 
Odlober, when they fhould be removed 
into the full fun, to remain during the 
winter feafon; but in March, when 
the young plants will begin to appear, 
they muft be removed again to a fhady 
fituation. and in dry weather fhould be 
frequently watered; about the begin- 
ning of Auguft they will be fit to be 
tranfplanted, at which time you fhould 
prepare a border, facing the eaft, of 
good frefh loamy earth, into which you 
fhould remove the plants, placing them 
at about fix inches diftant each way, 
clofine 



L I V 



L I Z 



doting the earth pretty faft to their 
roots, to prevent the worms from draw- 
ing them out of the ground, which they 
are very apt to do at that feafon ; the 
fpring following they will begin tofhew 
their flowers, but it will be three years 
before they flower ftrong ; till then you 
cannot judge of their goodnefs, when 
if you find any double flowers, or any 
of a different colour from the common 
forts, they fhould be taken up and 
tranfplanted into the borders of the 
flower-garden, where they fhould con- 
tinue at leaft two years before they are 
taken up and parted ; for it is remark- 
able in this plant, that where they are 
often removed and parted, they are 
very fubject to die j whereas, when 
they are permitted to remain un- 
difturbed for many years, they will 
thrive exceedingly, and become very 
large roots. 

The double flowers, which never 
produce feeds, are propagated by part- 
ing their roots, which ftiould be done 
in March, at the time when they are in 
flower; but ycu fhould be careful not 
to feparate them into very fmall heads, 
nor fhould they be parted oftener than 
every third or fourth year, if you in- 
tend to have them thrive, for the rea- 
fon before given. They delight in a 
loamy foil and in an eaitern pofition, 
where they may have only the morn- 
ing fun. 

Aft-coloured ground LIVERWORT. 
This plant confifts of pretty thick di- 
gitated leaves, flat above, of a reticular 
texture underneath, and fattened to the 
earth by fmall fibres : the leaves when 
in perfection are of an afh colour; by 
age they become darker coloured or 
reddifh. It is met with on commons 
and open heaths, where it quickly 
fpreads on the ground. Dr. Mead in- 
forms us, that this plant grows fn all 
countries, and has been brought over 
from America along with the Peruvian 
bark: that it is found at all times, but 
ought to be gathered from autumn to 
winter,, as being then in its frefheft 
vigour. 

This Ample is faid to be a warm diu- 
retic ; to the tafte it is not a little nau- 
feous. It is chiefly celebrated for its 
virtue in the cure of the diforders oc- 
cafioned by the bite of a mad dog. An 
account of the remarkable efteefs in 
thefe cafes of a powder compofed of 
the dried leaves and pepper, was com- 



municated to the Royal Society by Mr. 
Dampier, and publifhed in the Philo- 
fophical tranfacfions, No. 237. This 
powder was afterwards inferted into 
the London Pharmacopoeia, under the 
title of pulvis antilyjjus, at the defire of 
an eminent phyfician who had great 
experience of its good effects. The 
fame gentleman afterwards publifhed 
and difperfed a paper containing the 
method of cure, which he had in a 
great number of inftances conftantly 
found fuccefsful. In this paper, the 
directions were to the following effect: 
" Let the patient be blooded nine or 
ten ounces ; and afterwards take 
a dram and a half of the powder 
every morning for four mornings 
fucceffively, in half a pint of cows 
milk warm. After thefe four 
dofes are taken, the patient muft 
go into the cold bath, .or a cold 
fpring, or river, every morning 
fafting for a month ; he muft be 
dipt all over, but not flay in (with 
his head above water) longer than 
half a minute, if the water be 
very cold : after this, he muft go 
in three times a week for a fort- 
night longer." 

In the year 1745, the world was fa- 
voured with a new edition of the me- 
chanical account of poifons, in which 
we find the fame method of cure again 
recommended, as having, in a courfe 
of thirty years experience, never failed 
of fuccefs, where it had been followed 
before the hydrophobeia begun. It is 
greatly tobewifhed that the efficacy of 
this medicine in preventing thefe terri- 
ble dilcrders, was abfolutely certain, 
and proved by inconteflible facts. In- 
ftances have been produced of its pro- 
ving unfuccefsful; and the many ex- 
amples of the fatality of the difeafe, 
which continually occur, feem argu- 
ments either of the inefficacy of the 
medicine, or a itrange negligence in 
applying it. We fhall only farther ob- 
ferve, that Boerhaave, who is in gene- 
ral fufnciently liberal in the commen- 
dation of remedies, ranks this among 
thofe insignificant trifles, which who- 
ever depends upon will find himfelf 
deceived by. 

LIZARD'S TAIL. See Spanish 
Elder. 

LIZENEDCORN. Leffened, thin, 
blighted, lank corn, 

LOAD 



L O A 



L O A 



LOAD of Hay, 18 cwt. in fome 
places 20 cwt. 

Load of Corn, 5 quarter or ten 
facks ; but the load, like many other 
meafures. differs in different coun- 
ties, t ( sfri <// <.t // {b/t*9- 

Load of Timber, unhewed 40 
feet, hewed 50 feet. 

LOATHING of FOOD. See Ap- 
petite. 

LOAM. A foil intermixed with clay 
and fand. The character of loam is, 
that there is a great deal of fand mixed 
with the clay ; and that there is alfo in 
thefe foils ufually a great quantity of 
earth. 

The loamy foils are more common 
than any other : they differ in colour 
according to the clays and earths of 
which they are corr.pofed ; and they 
differ alfo in rkhnefb and fertility, ac- 
cording to the quantity of vegetable 
earth in the compofition. Even pure 
loam is not unfit for ufe, for the fand 
opens and breaks the clay, fo as to ren- 
der it fit for vegetation ; as we fee in 
thofe places where fand is ufed upon 
clay grot nd-, by way of manure; but 
when a confiderahle quantity of vege- 
table earth is added to this mixture, it 
becomes very fit for the product of her- 
bage ; the clay ferving to give it a body 
and keep the other ingredients frcm 
mouldering into powder. 

Losmy foils are of all others the moft 
natural, becaufe thefe mixtures of dif- 
ferent earths together, are what may 
be expelled every where: and they 
agree with almoft all kinds of growths, 
becaufe they are of a middle nature, 
and in fome degree partake of all foils. 

They have for this reafon been in 
general called by fome natural foil, and 
by others mother earth. As all plants 
receive their nourifhment from the 
earth ; according as that earth is fuited 
to them, they thrive more or lefs : now 
though a loamy foil will naturally fup- 
pcrt almoft any produce of the ground, 
yet all will not thrive alike in it. The 
Ert of the hufbandman therefore muft 
be employed by proper manures to fuit 
the loamy foil in his hands to that par- 
ticular crop he defires fhould grow 
upon it ; and this may be done effec- 
tually. 

"We fee by experience, that clay and 
clayey grounds keep in the feed a long 
time, and pufh it flowly ; on the con- 
trary, fandy foils make it flioot at once, 



and forward it haftily. The fame ked 
fown in clay and fand, will be a month 
earlier in the fhoot in the latter than 
the former. We fee alfo, that this 
backwardnefs of the foil, and this over- 
haftening quality, are both attended 
with bad confequences : and it follows 
that loamy foils muft be very valuable, 
as they partake of each, and are in their 
compofition, and alfo in their effeds, 
of a middle nature between both. 

We fee that loamy foils are fuited to 
univerfal ufe, in that all kind of wild 
plants grow in them. There are fome 
plants which grow naturally in clay, 
and others which live in fandy foils. 
Now the plants which are natives of 
the clay, will not live in the fand ; nor 
will thofe of the fand live in clay : but 
both will live and thrive in loam. 

From this and many other obferva- 
tions, we fee that the loamy foil is 
univerfal; and that all forts of plants 
will grow in it. This muft greatly en- 
courage the farmer who lias it in his 
fields, but this is not to lead him to 
think it will do without his induftry. 
There is difference between growing 
and thriving. Things muft not only 
live b«it thrive with the farmer, and to 
thispurpofe he muftaffift and improve 
his land when this is the foil. It is a 
comfort that nature has laid a founda- 
tion ; but the reft muft come from the 
farmer's induftry. 

Loamy foils have many different ap- 
pearances. Some call the under turf 
earth, loam, let it be of what n?ture it 
will, and then the variety is endlefs j 
but without that miftake, the kinds arc 
very numerous. 

There are clay loams, fandy loams, 
gravelly loams, ftony loams, and chalky 
loams. What is meant by thefe terms 
is as follows : 

The clay loam is a loamy foil in which 
there is an over proportion of clay to 
the reft of the ingredients ; for thefe 
foils, as faid before, are all of a very 
mixed kind. Tht fandy loam is a 
loamy foil, in which the fand is in too 
great a quantity : the gravelly loam is 
a loamy foil, with fmall pebbles among 
it; and fo of the other two, the one 
having ftones, the other chajkey mat- 
ter among it. 

The farmer is to confider each of 
thefe as a loamy foil in the general 
dreffing; but he is to alter that a little 
in each alfo, by adding what is ufeful 

foi 



L O A 



LOG 



for improving that particular foil, 
Which is over-proportioned in the 
loam. For inftance, if it be a clayey 
loam, he is to add, to the ufual dref- 
fings for loamy foils, a quantity of fand. 
This will make up the natural defici- 
ency. And in the like manner he is 
to manage the others. 

In Kent they drefs their clayey loams 
with chalk j and this is found by ex- 
perience, to be an excellent method : 
and they find that the chalk in time 
mellows down into the clayey matter, 
fo as to make in the whole a kind of 
marie. 

With refpedr to the manner of dref- 
fing loamy foil, mere regard is to ba 
fiad to tiie texture of the foil, than its 
colour; which laft may be various, 
while the fubftance is in a manner the 
fame. 

If itbe a clayey loam, that is, a loamy 
foil with too much of the clay, let it 
be well ploughed, and broke tho- 
roughly, then drefs it with a mixture 
of burnt turf from a heath, mixed with 
lime and hog's dung. 

When the loamy foil is too fandy, 
clay may be ufed as a manure ; and at 
other times river mud mixed with 
dung and rotted turfi. 

When the loamy foil is in its own 
nature well mixed, and no ingredient 
overbears the reft, dung in the com- 
mon'way of ufing ferves to refrefh it 
after it has been exhaufted by crops : 
and as the effecl of this is but fhort, 
the experienced farmers plough in 
horn-fhavings bought in London, to- 
gether with hoofs and ikins of any 
animals. Thefe not only give great 
ftrength and heart to the land, but their 
tffeft is very lafting. 

When there is too much earth in the 
Joamy foil, the beft of all manures is 
foot; this laid on in a moderate quan- 
tity, gives that foil the only thing that 
itv/ants, which is warmth. This fort 
of land receives the manure fcindiy, 
and requires moderate ploughing. 

When the ioamy foil has ftcnes in 
abundance, whethertheybeof the lime 
ftone or pebble kinds, and whether 
it be called a gravelly or a ftony loam, 
good mellow dunging is of great aff.ft- 
ance. In this cafe let the farmer bring 
out all the dung from his yard, hcife 
dung, cow, hog, and poeltry dung, and 
mixing it with mud from the bottoms 
*f rivers or cleanfings of ditches, make 



It into a heap in the field. When hf 
has a good hill of this mixture, let him 
cover it with frefh cut turf, and leava 
it to mellow together. 

When he is to fpread this on th« 
ground, let him take a fit feafon : not 
lay it on in the midft of fummer, for 
the fun and air to wafte its firength, 
but towards autumn, when the fuc- 
ceeding rains will wafh it into the 
ground. Thus will he make a foil, 
that is but unfruitful in itfelf, very 
rich ; for thefe poor ftony loams, 
though barren in their own nature, re- 
ceive the dreffmgs kindly, and are thus 
made very fruitful. 

In fome parts of Surry, they have a 
very ftiff clayey loam, which they treat 
as follows : After a fallow they fow 
two crops, and lay down their lands 
with clover for three years. At ths 
end of this time they dung it richly, 
and then it is fertile for feveral years 
again. 

In Hertfordfhire they plough in clo- 
ver alone, or with dung, and fome four 
and plough in buck wheat; both which 
methods have their advantage, but are 
not comparable to feveral of thofe be- 
fore mentioned. 

LOCKER GOWLANS. [TroUtus.] 
This plant is found in Lancafhiie and 
Wales j it has a perennial fibrous 
black root, from which fpring up many- 
leaves, cut into five fegments almolt to 
the bottom ; its ftalk rifes near two 
feet, and branches towards the top, 
bearing a large yellow flower about 
May or June, and the feeds ripen in 
Auguft. It is eafily propagated by 
parting the roots. 

Another fort has been brought from 
Siberia into the Engiifh gardens, which 
blows with an elegant faffron coloured 
flower. This is propagated like the 
former, but iik.es a moift fituation. 

LOCUST. St. John's Bread. Set 
Bean Trek. 

Bajiard Locust, [Hymenea."] Ses 
Bastard Locust. 

Honey Locust. See Water 

AC 4CIA. 

LOE. A little hill or hillock; a 
heap. 

LOG. A fha> elef» piece of wood. 

LOGWOOD, ' [Lignum Campechcnfe, 
Han:atoxylun;^\ The tree that produces 
the logwood is as tall and hufhy as our 
oak; the leaves are fmall, roundilb, 
and of a fine bright green; the trunk 



LOO 



LOP 



is commmonly torturous, rugged and 
knotty, like the white-thorn. The 
bloflbms, which refemble lilies of the 
valley, are of a fine red, and exhale a 
fragrant fmell. The bark is fo thick, 
that there is very little left when the 
wood is (tripped. This wood is very 
fit for turnery work, and takes a fine 
pohfh; but its chief ufe is for the red 
dye. The trees grow in dry and bar- 
ren places, and among the rocks ; it is 
found in molt provinces in the Bra- 
zils, but chiefly in that of Fernam- 
bucca; and the heft of , all grows ten 
leagues from Olinda, the capital of 
that captainfhip. 

This plant is preferved in fome cu- 
rious gardens in England for the fake of 
variety. The feeds are frequently 
brou iu from America, which, if frefh, 
readily grow when fown upon a good 
hot-bed; and if the plants are kept in 
a moderate hot-bed, they will grow to 
be upward of a foot high the fame year ; 
and while the plants are young, they 
are generally well furnifhed with 
leaves, but afterward they make but 
little progrefs, and are frequently but 
thinly covered with leaves. The 
plants are very tender, fo fhould be 
conftantly kept in the bark-ftove, 
where, if they are duly watered, and 
tljeftove kept in a good degree of heat, 
the plants may be preferved very well. 

A decodion and extract of this 
wood is employed in medicine for the 
cure of diarrhoeas. 

LONDON PRIDE. A fpecies of 
faxifrage, eafily propagated by offsets. 

LOOSETRIFE, [Lyfmachia.] This 
plant grows by the fide of ditches and 
rivers in many parts of England, rifing 
with upright ftalks from two to three 
feet high. There are feveral other fpe- 
cies growing in England, and brought 
from the Levant and America, fome of 
which are annual, one fort biennial 
with purple flowers, and one or two 
perennial. They are all propagated 
by feeds. 

Herb Two-pence is a fpecies of this 
plant. 

Podded Loosetrife. French 
Willow. 

Purple Loosetrife. This is a 
perennial plant growing by the fides of 
rivers in moft parts of England, the 
flowers of which, produced in a long 
fpike at the end of the (talk, make a 
fine appearance. It is eafily cultivated 



by parting the roots in autumn, and 
planting them in a moift foil. 

LOOSENESS. See Flux. 

LOPPED MILK. Such milk as 
ftands till it fours and curdles of itfelf. 

LOPPING. The cutting off the 
fide branches of trees. 

It is very obfervable that moft old 
trees are hollow within ; which does 
not proceed from the nature of the 
trees, but is the fault of thofe who have 
the management of them, who fuffer 
the tops to grow large before they lop 
them ; as the afh, elm, hornbeam, Sec. 
and perfuade themfelves that they may 
have more great wood ; but in the 
mean time, do not confider that the 
cutting off great tops endangers the 
life of a tree, or at beft wounds it fo, 
that many trees yearly decay more in 
their bodies than the yearly tops come 
to ; and at the fame time that they fur- 
nifli themfelves with more great wood, 
they do it at the lofs of the owner. 
And indeed, though the hornbeam and 
elm will bear great tops, when the 
body is little more than a fhell, yet the 
afh, if it takes wet at the head, very 
rarely bears more top after the body of 
the tree decays ; therefore if once thefe 
trees decay much in the middle, they 
will be worth little but for the fire. 

The lopping of young trees, that is, 
at ten or twelve years old at moft, 
will preferve them much longer, and 
will occafion the fhoots to grow more 
into wood in one year, than they do in 
old tops at two or three. Great 
boughs ill taken off, fpoil many a tree ; 
for which reafon they fhould always 
be taken off clofe and fmooth, and not 
parallel to the horizon ; and cover the 
wound with loam and horfe-dung 
mixed, to prevent the wet from enter- 
ing into the body of the tree. 

When trees are at their full growth, 
there are feveral figns of their decay, as 
the withering or dying of many of their 
top branches; or if the wet enters at 
any knot ; or if they are any wife hol- 
low or difcoloured ; or if wood-peck- 
ers make any hole in them. 

This lopping of trees is only to be 
underftood for pollard trees ; becaufe 
nothing is more injurious to the growth 
of timber- trees, than that of lopping or 
cutting off great branches from them. 
Whoever will be at the trouble of try- 
ing the experiment upon two trees of 
equal age and fize, growing near each 
other 



LOP 



LOT 



•ther, to lop or cut off the fide bran- 
ches from one of them, and fuffer all 
the branches to grow upon the other, 
will in a few years, find the latter to 
exceed the other in growth every way ; 
and this will not decay near fo foon. 

All forts of refinous trees, or fuch 
as abound with a milky juice, fhould 
be lopped very fparingly ; for they are 
fubject to decay when often cut. The 
beft feafon for lopping thefe trees is 
foon after Bartholomew-tide ; at which 
time they feldom bleed much, and the 
wound is commonly healed over before 
the cold weather comes on. 

The generality of the world are 
againft pruningtimber trees at all, and 
where they naturally grow ftrait and 
regular it is much better let alone. 
But all common faults in fhape may be 
regulated by thus lopping them when 
young, and it can be attended with no 
ill confequence to the timber; for the 
cut not lying near the timber pith can- 
not affect it, when grown up, and 
fquared in the working for beams and 
other ufes, or to be quartered ; for all 
the defects occafioned by fuch wounds 
are in the fuperricial parts, and all the 
foui quarters are perfectly found within. 

As to the large foreft tree», they 
fhould not be lopped at all, except in 
cafes of great neceffity, and then the 
large boughs mult not be cut, but only 
the fide branches; and even thefe mu ft 
be cut off clofe, that the bark may foon 
cover the wound, and yet a little flant- 
ing, that the water may run off, and 
not lodge upon the cut part. 

If there is a neceffity of cutting off 
a large bough, as by its being broken 
or cankered, let it be cut off flaming at 
about four leet diftance from the body 
of the tree, and that if poffible near 
fome place where there is a young fhoot 
from it, which may receive the fap, 
and grow up in its place. No flump 
mult be left ftanding out farther than 
this, becaufe they are wounded parts 
which never can heal, and which will 
always be letting in the water, and 
will ierve as pipes to convey that wa- 
ter into the heart of the body of the 
tree, and by degrees will utterly fpoil it. 
All that grow upright, whether they be 
large or fmall branches, muft in cut- 
ting be taken off flaming, never evenly, 
for the fame reafon ; thofe boughs that 
bear from the he3d are to be cut with 
the flopeon the lower fide, and on any 
Vol. I, 3O 



occafionthat great wounds are g!*en to ~*~?fi " ? 
a tree, they fhould be covered with a w ) ee-/£fl 
mixture of clay and horle dung, which .> * 
will make them heal much fooner than / £ £'-'t 
they otherwife would do. * . 

LOTE TREE, [Ctlth.] Ofthelote 
or nettle tree there are three fpecies; 
ift, Lote tree with a black fruit. This 
fort grows naturally in the fouth of 
France, in Spain and Italy, in which 
countries it grows to a tree of confider- 
ablefize; in England it is not fo com- 
mon as the fecond kind. It rifes with 
an upright item to the height of forty 
or fifty feet, fending out many flender 
branches upward, which have a fmooth 
dark coloured bark, with fome fpotsof 
grey ; thefe are garnifhed with leaves 
placed alternately, which are near four 
inches long, and about two broad in 
the middie, ending in long fharp points 
and deeply fawed on their edges, having 
feveral tranfverfe veins which are pro- 
minent on their under fide. The flow- 
ers come out from the wings of the 
leaves all along the branches ; they have 
a male and an hermaphrodite flower 
generally at the fame place, the male 
flowers being fituated above the others : 
thefe have no petals, but a green her- 
baceous empalement, fo make no fi- 
gure ; they come out in the fpring, at 
the fame time when the leaves make 
their firft appearance, and generally 
decay before the leaves have grown to 
hall their magnitude. After the flow- 
ers are part, the germen of the her- 
maphrodite flowers becomes a round 
berry about the fize of a large pea, 
which is black when ripe. 

2d. Lote Tree with a dark purple 
fruit. This grows naturally in North 
America, and delights in a moilt rich 
foil, in which it becomes a very large 
tree. It rifes with a ftrait Item, which 
in young trees is fmooth and of a dark 
colour, but as they advance it becomes 
rougher, and of a lighter green. The 
branches are much diffufed on every 
fide, and are garnifhed with oblique 
oval leaves, ending in points, and 
fawed on their edges ; they are placed 
alternately on the branches, with pretty 
long foot-ftalks. The flowers come 
out oppofite to the leaves upon pretty 
long foot-ftalks, the male flowers 
ftanding above the hermaphrodite, as 
in the other fpecies ; after thefe decay, 
the hermaphrodite flowers are fuc- 
ceeded by roundifh berries, which are 
fmaller 



LOT 



LOT 



fcnaller than thofe of the firft fort, and. 
when ripe, are of a dark purple colour. 
This tree flowers in May, and the feeds 
ripen in October. Of this fort there 
are feveral pretty large trees ia the Eng- 
Lifh gardens, fome of which produce 
great quantities of fruit annually, 
which, in favourable feafons, come to 
maturity, fo that from thefe feeds there 
have been plants raifed ; and there are 
few years in which there is not fruit of 
this fort fent from America, whereby 
it is now become pretty common in 
the Englifh nurferies. 

3d. Smaller Eaftern Lote Tree, with 
fmaller and thicker leaves, and a yellow 
fruit. This fort was difcovered by Dr. 
Tournefort in Armenia, from whence 
he fent the feeds to theRoyai garden at 
Paris, where they fucceeded, and the 
trees which were there raifed have pro- 
duced fruit for feverai years; fo that 
nioft of the curious gardens in Europe 
have been furnifhvd with it from 
thence. It rifes with a ftem about ten 
cr twelve feet high, dividing into 
many branches, which fpread hori- 
zontally on every fide, having a fmcoth 
greenifh bark, garnifhed with leaves 
about an inch and a half long, and near 
an inch broad, inclining to a heart- 
fiiape, but are oblique, one of the ears 
of the bafe being fmaller and lower 
than the other; they are of a thicker 
texture than thefe of the common fort, 
and of a paler green, placed alternate 
on the branches, and have fhort foot- 
stalks. 

The flowers come cut from the foct- 
rtalks of the leaves, in the fame man- 
ner as the former, and are fucceeded by 
oval yellow berries, which, when fully 
ripe, turn of a darker colour. The 
wood of this tree is very white. 

Thefe trees arc a-1 propagated by 
feeds, which fhculd be fown foon af- 
ter they are ripe, when they can be 
procured at that feafen, for they fre- 
quently come up the following fpring ; 
whereas tliofe which are fown in the 
fpring, will not come up till a twelve- 
month after; therefore it is the heft 
way to fow them in pots or tubs, that 
they may be eafily removed, for thofe 
which are fown in the fpring fhould be 
placed in a fhady Situation in fummer, 
and constantly kept clean from weeds; 
but in au'umn they fhould be placed 
in a warm fuuation, plunging the pots 
into the ground; and if they are co- 
vered over with a little tan from a de- 



cayed hot-bed, it will prevent the froft 
from penetrating the earth to injure th« 
feeds ; and if thefe pots are placed on a 
gentle hot-bed in the fpring, it will 
greatly forward the vegetation of the 
feeds, whereby the plants will have 
more time to get ftrength before the 
winter; but when the plants appear 
above ground they muft have a large 
fhare of air admitted to them, other- 
wife they will be drawn up weak ; and 
as foon as the weather is warm, they 
muft be expofed to the open air, and 
in fummer they muft be conftantly 
kept clean from weeds ; if the feafon 
proves dry, they will require watertwo 
or three times a week. In autumn it 
will be proper to remove the pots, and 
place them under a hot-bed frame, to 
fhelter them in wi nter from fevere froft ; 
or where there is not that conveniency, 
the pots fhould be plunged into the 
ground near a wall or hedge; and as 
the plants when young are full of fap, 
and tender, the early frofts in autumn 
frequently kill the upper part of the 
fhoots; therefore the plants fhould be 
either covered with mats, or a little 
ftraw or peafe-haulm laid over them 
to protect them. 

In the following fpring the plants 
fhould betaken out of the feed-pots, 
and planted in the full ground: this 
fhould be done about the middle or 
latter end of March, when the danger 
of the frolt is over; therefore a bed or 
two mould be prepared (according to 
the number of plants raifed) in a fhel- 
tered fuuation, and if poffible, in a gen- 
tle loamy foil. The ground muft be 
well trenched, and cleared from the 
roots of bad weeds, and when levelled, 
fhould be maiked out in lines atone 
foot diftance; then the plants fhould 
be carefully turned out of the pots and 
feparated, fo as not to tear their roots, 
and planted in the lines at fix inches 
afunder, preffing the earth clofe down 
to the roots. If the ground be very 
dry when they are planted, and there 
is no appearance of rain foon, it will 
be proper to water the beds, to fettle the 
ground to the roots of the plants ; and 
after this, if the furface of the ground 
be covered with fome old tan or rotten 
dung, it will keep it moift, and prevent 
the drying winds from penetrating to 
the roots of the plants. 

The following fummer the neceffary 

care muft be taken to keep them con- 

ftantly 



L O V 



LUC 



ftantly clean from weeds : but after the 
plants are pretty well eftablifhed in the 
ground, they will not require any wa- 
ter, efpecially toward the latter end of 
fummer, for that will occafion their 
late growth, whereby they will be in 
great danger of fuffering by the autumn 
frofls ; for the more any of thefe young 
trees are flopped in their growth by 
drought towards autumn, the firmer 
will be their texture, which will enable 
them to bear the feverity of winter. 

The plants may remain in the nur- 
fery two years, by which time they will 
have obtained fufficient llrength to be 
tranfplanted where^ they are defigned 
to remain for good, becaufe thefe plants 
extend their roots wide every way; fo 
that if they itand long in the nurfery, 
their roots will be cut in removing, 
which will be a great prejudice.to their 
future growth. 

Thefe forts are hardy enough to 
thrive in the open air in England, after 
they are become ftrong; but for the 
two firft winters after they come up 
from feeds, they require a little pro- 
tection, efpecially the third fort, which 
is tenderer than either of the former. 
The young plants of this fort fre- 
quently have variegated leaves; but 
thofe are more impatient of cold than 
the plain leaved. 

Bafiard Lots Tree. See Date 
Plumb Tree. 

LOVAGE, [Leviflkum.] This is a 
large umbelliferous plant, cultivated 
with us in gardens. The root nearly 
agrees in quality with that of angelica ; 
the principal difference is, that thelo- 
vage root has a flronger fmell, and a 
fomewhat lefs pungent tafte, accom- 
panied with a more durable fweetnefs : 
the feeds are rather warmer, and more 
agreeable than the root. Thefe fim- 
ples, though certainly capable of being 
applied to ufeful purpofes, are not at 
prefent regarded. The root, wounded 
early in thefpring, bleeds an unctuous 
odorous juice, which flowly exficcated, 
proves an aromatic gummy refin. 

It is eafily propagated by feeds fown 
in autumn, and taking care to keep the 
plants clean from weeds. There are 
feveral fpecies kept in the gardens. 
LOVE APPLE. See Apple. 
Love in a Miji. See Passion 
Flower. 

Love lies a Blteding. See Ama- 
kantkus. 



LOUSEWORT, [Dtlpfamum.] See 
Staves Acre. 

LOW. See Lameness. 
LOW -WORM. Adifeafeinhcrfes 
hardly known from St. Anthony's fire, 
or the mingles, having the fame fymp- 
toms. It is a worm that is bred in the 
back of a horfe, between the fkin and 
the bone, or runs along the neck to the 
brain, and when it comes to the tunt- 
cle thereof, makes him run mad. The 
fymptoms of this diforder are, after a 
long journey he will be fick, and fall 
from his meat, and ftretch out himfelf 
at length with his feet, bending his 
back, and {training to ftale, but can- 
not ; which in time will make him fo 
mad, that he will gnaw the manger, 
rack-ftaves, or any thing within his 
reach. Give him one of Bracken's 
cordial balls every night and morning, 
with a drench of warm ale and a toaft. 
LOWK. A weeding hook. 
LUCERNE, [Medka.] This plant 
was difcovered in Media by Darius du- 
ring his Perfian expedition. By this 
means it pafled afterwards into Greece, 
and thence to Italy, before the times of 
Cato and Virgil. 

From being difcovered in Media, it 
had its name Medica, Medicago, and 
Medick; it is called by the Spaniards 
Alfalfa, and Ervaye ; and by the French 
La Lucerne, Grand Treffle, and Fce- 
num Burgandiacum, that is Burgundy 
hay. 

There is no doubt but that its cul- 
ture continued upon a flourifhing' 
footing in Italy till the irruption of the 
Goths and Vandals, when it was neg- 
lected and left to perifh by thofe fa- 
vage invaders. But as Spain fuffered 
much lefs from thefe barbarians than 
Italy, and as the Moors were all lovers 
of plants, and to a certain degree her- 
balifts, the culture of lucerne was there 
faintly kept alive like a veftal fire. It 
is probable that the fort we now have 
is a defcendant of Columella's lucerne, 
who removed it from Italy, and natu- 
ralized it in Andalufia, where it was 
preferved for many ages. From Spain 
it returned to Naples, and thence to 
Volterra, and Scandiano, being held in 
much efteem every where, but more 
particularly near cities, where land is 
fcarce and dear. 

About the year 1550, a Venetian 

nobleman who was fond of hufbandry 

raifed it with fuecrfs, and not long af- 

3 O 2 ierwards 



LUC 



LUC 



terwards the Archbifhop of Montiglll 
carried a parcel of the feed ro kome, 
fo that the culcureof lucerne foon fpread 
with great rapidity over great p.m o r 
the eccleliaftical ftate, and all Loni 
bardy. In fome few years Count Fabio 
taught the French to raifel'icerne round 
Paris, infomuch that in Henry IVth's 
reign it was as common, at leaft in the 
fouthem parts of France, as broad 
clover is at prefent with us. 

About 1578, lucerne found its way 
into Germany, and was cultivated in 
one of the lovelieft parts of the whole 
empire, namely, the Lower Palatinate. 
At the fame time its fame reached 
England, where all admired it, and 
fome few had the courage to m2ke ef- 
fays towards cultivating it; but their 
attempts were languid, and generally 
unfuccefsful, notwithstanding they had 
the practice of the ancients to guide 
them, in the books de Rebus Rufikis. 
At length Hartlib excited the atten- 
tion of the public afrefh in the year 
1650; he did as much, circumftanccs 
eonfidered. as a man of his great ge- 
nius could do. But as there was no 
method of raifing it at that time ge- 
nerally known, but by the common 
practice ufed in cultivating clover, it 
of courfe mifcarried in our climate. 

Lucerne has a perennial root, and an 
annual ftalk which rifes three or four 
feet high in good land, and is garnifhed 
at each point with trifoliate leaves, 
whofe lobes arefpear fhaped, about an 
inch and a half long, and half an inch 
broad, and fawed towards the top. 
The flowers grow in fpikes, which are 
from two to near three inches in length, 
rifing from the wings of theftalks; 
they are of the pea bloom or butterfly 
kind, of a fine purple colour, and are 
fucceeded by compreffed moon fhaped 
pods, which contain feveral kidney- 
fhaped feeds. Jt flowers in June, and 
the feed ripens in September. 

There are feveral varieties of this 
fpecies of lucerne, but the greater up- 
right medick or lucerne with purple or 
violet flowers is the itrongeft, and belt 
for ufe, and cnnftquently themoft pro- 
fitable foi the hufbandman. 

The antients, and fome of the mo- 
derns, are lavifh in its praife, efteeming 
it fuperior to every other fort of vege- 
table food, either green or made into 
hay, that has hitherto been ufed for 
the fupport of cattle. If rightly ma. 



naged it is capable of fupporling heat 
and drowth even near the equator; 
and may be fuccefsfully raifed in any 
climate not exceeding lixty degrees of 
la. ityde either north 01 fouth; (o that 
there wi.i be little to fear from our 
fummer droughts, even when the 
neighbouring fields a>e ftinted in 
growth and half parched up. 

It is difficult to affign any veafon 
why it is called lucerne; for the can- 
ton of that nan.e in owitzeriand neither 
was nor is famous for producing it; 
nor did the weflern or northern parts of 
Europe receive it thence, as appears 
from the account already given of its 
progrefs. 

Lucerne is one of t" e handfomeft of 
the artificial graffes, the flowers of the 
common kinds are fometimes red, and 
fometimes purple; a large field when 
in full bloffbm has a very bright beau- 
tiful glow at a diftance. It is looked 
upon to be wholefome for men as well 
as cattle; and the leaves are eaten in 
the fouth of France with the fpring fal- 
lad herbs, the talte is like that of cref- 
fes. The leaves infufed in boiling wa- 
ter have all the fragrance of fine new- 
made hay. Several writers prefcribe it 
in fmall quantities for fick fheep, and 
indeed to all cattle that are ill, languish- 
ing, oroutof plight. Meadow lucerne 
has been ft tied fops in wine, and proba- 
bly on account of its flowers being 
thrown into wine and water, like bo- 
rage and buelofs, to give the liquor an 
agreeable flavour. 

Befides the fuperior goodnefs of lu- 
cerne as food for cattle r its eariy ap- 
pearance is another particular advan- 
tage ; for it comes in ufe long before 
all common grades, and even fix or 
feven weeks before clover or winter 
vetches. 

Cattle are very fond of this green 
food, preferring it to the clovers and 
trefoils. It fhould however be remem- 
bered, that theylikewife prefer that 
which has been cut and remained a day 
or two in a fhady place. Lucerne mult 
be given with more caution to cows 
than horfes; with the latter it proves 
extremely diuretic for about eight or 
ten days, and then they begin to grow 
fat. Sheep will eat it either green or 
dried, when they refufe every other fort 
of food. All cattle prefer lucerne hay 
to any other, if you lay differenc heaps 
before them : a horfe willnever leave a 
fprig 



l u e 



LUC 



fprig in the rack or manger. As to 
young pigs, fcarcely any food is fo 
healthy, nourifhing and agreeable, as 
the vegetable we are here fpeaking of, 
if it be cut while it is green and carried 
to the ftye; nor does any fort of food 
enable the fow to give larger quanti- 
ties of milk. 

Cold will not injure this plant ; for 
in the fevere winter of 1728-9, feme 
roots which were dug up in October, 
and laid upon the ground in the open 
air till the beginning of March, were 
again planted, and they fhot out very 
vigoroufly foon after; nay, even while 
they lay upon the ground, they fent out 
fhoots from the under fide of the roots. 
Wet will altogether deftroy it : a little 
of the feed was fown upon a moift fpot 
of ground for a trial, it fiourifhed du- 
ring the fummer, but during the win- 
ter rains the roots began to rot, and 
before the fpring molt of them pe- 
rifhed. Having given this, we hope 
not unentertaining account, we fhall 
briefly defcribe the different methods of 
cultivating lucerne ; viz. the broad- 
cast, drilling, and tranfplantation. 

The foil which is efteemed moft pro- 
per is a deep, rich, and well-conditi- 
oned one, and rather inclined to moif- 
ture than drynefs ; but by no means 
wet from ftagnating water, as this al- 
ways proves fatal to lucerne. It 
mould be well ploughed, and harrowed 
till it is exceeding fine, and be cleaned 
from all forts of weeds, of which no 
plant is more impatient. If fome frefh 
ftable litter be ploughed in jufl before 
the feed is fown, it will enable the 
young plant to pufh forth its leaves and 
/talks with luxuriance the firft fummer. 

The feed fhould be procured from 
France, Italy, Switzerland, or Spain, 
becaufe it feldom arifes at a fufficient 
degree of maturity in our climate ; for 
we want that ftrength of fun-mine, 
and conftant fettled weather, which 
the cultivators of lucerne enjoy in the 
countries juft mentioned. 

It may be fown (about forty pounds 
to an acre) from the beginning of 
March to the end of May ; but about 
the middle of April is the beft time, 
provided the weather be dry. The 
plant comes up like clover, but varies 
a little after it is a month old, and be- 
gins to put out three leaves. Great 
care muft be taken to keep it clean 
from weeds, otherwife they will foon 



overpower and choak the infant crop. 
In Languedoc they mnw the lucerne 
when it is fevtn inches high ; by which 
means all the annual weeds are cut off 
and killed. This however is by fome 
entirely condemned, on account 01 the 
lucerne bleeding when it is cut fo 
young. 

The moft proper time to mow lu- 
cerne for hay i. juft when it begins to 
blofTom. It mould be turned in the 
fwarth like clover, and when fufrtci- 
ently made, it fhould be carried to a 
barn, for it does not keep fo well in a 
rick. It feerm moft eligible to mow it 
only once the firft year, and when it 
moots again, to feed it off with fheep. 

Early the next fpring it fhould be 
harrowed to tear up the weeds, which 
may be done without any material in- 
jury to the roots of the lucerne. An 
harrow has been contrived tor this 
purpofe that refembles a large garden 
rake with handles fixed to the head, fo 
that a labourer may prefs down the 
teeth into the land : this harrowing 
may he renewed every fpring, fome re- 
commend it after every mowing. 

With refpeft to the number of cut- 
tings, though fome writers pretend it 
may be mowed fix times, yet it has 
rarely been mowed in this country 
more than three times in one year. 

Mr. Miller recommends, from his 
own expeiience, a different method of 
cultivating this plant. He fowed it in 
drills about eighteen inches afunder, 
fcattering the feeds very thin in the 
drills, about fix pounds to an acre. 
His reafon for this practice was, more 
eafily deftroying the weeds than in the 
broad-caft. This hoeing he repeated 
feveral times, and always in dry wea- 
ther, becaufe weeds do not then ve- 
getate. 

With this management the lucerne 
was fit to cut in Auguft 5 after which, 
the ground between the rows was 
again hoed : in September it was four 
or five inches high, when he ufually fed 
it off with fheep till November. In 
the beginning of February following, 
the intervals fhould be again ftirrred 
with the hoe, by which means, in a 
warm foil, the fhoots will be five or 
fix inches high in March, when there 
is fcarce a blade of grafs to be feen 
clfewhere. This may be fed down tii! 
a week in April, and then left till the 
beginning of June, when it will be fit 

to 



LUC 



L U N 



to cut. The ground fhould again be 
hoed, and there will be another crop fit 
to cut by the latter end of July; after 
which, it fhould be fed down again in 
autumn. 

In this manner there will be con- 
ftantly two crops to cut, and two feed- 
ings every year ; and in good feafons 
there may be three crops cut, and two 
feedings. 

Mr. Miller is inclined to think, that 
the reafon why it does not fucceed fo 
well in England is owing to its being 
fowed with corn ; for though the plant 
be hardy when grown to a large fize, 
yet if it be incommoded by any »ther 
plant at its firft coming up, it never 
flourifhes; or it may have been fowed 
at a wrong feafon, or in wet weather. 
However, certain it is, that if the na- 
tural grafs or weeds are not kept down 
at firft, they will foon overpower and 
deftroy the lucerne. 

The Jate ingenious author of the 
EJfays on Hufeandry, recommends a new 
method of cultivating lucerne 5 which 
is, by railing the plants in a nurfery in 
the fpring, and tranfplanting them into 
the field in Auguli or September, ha- 
ving previoufly cut off their ftalks and 
tap roots. 

The plants In the nurfery being 
eighteen inches high, are carefully to 
be digged up, and the earth entirely 
loofened at top and bottom before they 
are drawn out. In the next place the 
long tap roots are to be cur off at eight, 
nine, or ten inches below the crown of 
the plant; and the ftalks or fhoots 
clipped about five inches above the 
crown of the plant, which is then to 
be thrown into a veilel of water, (for 
this plant is very impatient of heat 
and fun-fhine after it is taken up) and 
the fame day removed into the field 
prepared for its reception, and planted 
In rows three feet four inches afunder. 
The crop is to be horfe-hoed, and may 
be cut five or fix times in one year, 
which will (the author fays) produce 
ten tons. 

This method is attended wit!) a great 
deal of care, trouble and expence ; but 
if the lucerne be tranfplanted in mui:t 
or fhowery weather, the additional 
trouble of fteeping the plants in water 
may be fpared ; though it is a plant of 
fuch ineltimabie value that it will an- 
fwer almoft any expence. 

It is obferved by ail the cultivators, 



that lucerne may be cut long before 
meadow grafs, and that the drilled crops 
are earlier than the broad-caft. They 
have likewife another advantage, which 
Is, being more ealily kept free from 
weeds j but where the ground is pro- 
perly prepared by fallbwing or turnips, 
fo that the land is properly clean and 
fine, the broad-caft will have greatly 
the advantage, and recommend itfelf to 
the practical hufbandman, as being 
more fimple,'and lefs expenfive. 

We fhall conclude with obferving, 
that afhes and foot are excellent dref- 
fings for lucerne, and fuperior to dung. 

LUG, (s-Lugg, A pole, or perch of 
land. 

LUNGS. Sheep are very fubject to 
be difordered in the lungs, which is 
eafily perceived in their breathing or 
by their coughing : nothing requires a 
more fpeedy remedy, for they grow in- 
curable when it is neglected but a little 
time, and die as men in a confumption. 

Change of air and pafture are effen- 
tial to the cure of this difeafe ; without 
this caution no remedy will take place. 

The caufe of this diforder, in what- 
ever form it appears, whether in 
coughing, wheezing, or panting, in 
difficulty or fhortnefs of breath, is the 
fame. It is owing to cold, and it ge- 
nerally, comes upon fheep that have 
been kept in low grounds in wet 
weather. 

Let them be drove into an enclofed 
pafture where there is fhort grafs and 
a gravelly foil, and if poffible, where 
there is a fpring or other running 
water. 

Bruife a bafket full of the leaves of 
coltsfoot, and prefs out the juice; 
bruife in the fame manner an 
equal quantity of plantain, leaves 
and roots together, and prefs out 
its juice. Mix thefe, and bruife 
as much garlick as will yield about 
a fourth part as much juice as one 
of the others. Mix all together, 
and add ■ to them a pound of ho- 
ney, an ounce of powdered anni- 
feeds, and an ounce and a half of 
powdered elecampane. Give a 
quarter of a pint of this, warm, 
to every fheep that is affected, 
once a day, and it will by degrees 
make a perfect cure. 

Out of a whole flock thus affected, 

when the farmtr has taken thorough 

care 



L U P 



LUP 



•are in this refpeft, we have known 
when not one fheep has been loft. 

LUNGWORT, [Pulmonaiid.] This 
Is a perennial plant growing naturally 
in woods and fhady place*, in Italy, 
Germany, Switzerland, Auftria, and 
Hungary ; the leaves are rough, and 
the ftalk rifes to the height of a foot, 
the flowers which are red, purple and 
blue, are produced in fmall bunches 
at the top of the ftalks. There arefe- 
veral fpecies cultivated in the gardens, 
one of which is annual. Perennials 
may be propagated by parting the 
roots in. autumn, and the annual fcrt 
by feeds fown in autumn. 

Cow's Lungwort. Mullein. 

LUPINE, [Lupinus.~\ The fpecies 
are, i. The leffer blue lupine. 2. Nar- 
row-leaved, taller blue lupine. 3. The 
common yellow lupine. 4. The great 
biue lupine. 5. Garden or manured 
lupine, with a white flower. 6. Small 
perennial, creeping blue lupine of 
Virginia. 

The firft fort grows naturally among 
the corn in the fouth of France and 
Italy, and in great abundance in Sicily. 
This is an annual plant, which riles 
with a firm, ftrait, channelled (talk, 
near three feet high, divided toward 
the top into feveral branches, garnifiied 
with hand-fhaped leaves, compofed of 
five, fix, or feven oblong lobes, which 
join in one center at their bafe. The 
flowers are produced in fpikes at the 
end of the branches, ftanding half 
round the ftalk in a fort of whorl ; they 
are of a light blue colour, and arefuc- 
ceeded by ftrait taper pods with one 
ceil, inclofing a row of roundifh feeds. 

It is propagated in the borders of 
the pleafure garden for ornament, by 
fowing the feeds in April in the places 
where they are to remain ; and when 
the plants come up, they fnouid be 
thinned where they are too clcfe, and 
kept ciean from weeds, which is all the 
culture they require. 

The fecond fort has much the ap- 
pearance of the firft, but the ftalks rife 
higher ; the leaves have more lobes, 
and ftand upon longer foot-ftalks; the 
lobes are blunt pointed, and the fe-.Js 
are variegated. This requires the fime 
culture as the firft, and flowers at the 
fame time. 

The third fort is the common yellow 
Lupine, this grows naturally in Sicilv. 
It rifes about a foot high, with a 



branching ftalk, garnifiied with hand- 
fhaped leaves, compofed of nine hairy 
lobes, which join at their bafe to the 
fbot-ftalks. The flowers are yellow, 
and are produced in loofe fpikes at the 
end of the branches, ftanding in whorls 
round the ftalks. Thefe are fuccecded 
by flattifh ha,iry pods about two inches 
long, inclofing four or five roundifh 
feeds, a little comprefled on their fide. 
This fort flowers at the fame time as 
the former 3 but to have a fucceffion 
of the flowers, the feeds are fown at 
different times, viz. in April, May, and 
June, but thofe only which are firft 
fown will ripen their feeds. It may 
be cultivated in the fame manner as 
the two former, and is equally hardy. 

The fourth fort is fuppofed to be a 
native of India. It is an annual plant, 
which rifes with a ftrong, firm, chan- 
nelled ftalk, from three to four feet 
high, covered with a foft brownifh 
down, dividing upward into feveral 
ftrong branches, garnifiied with hand- 
fliaped leaves, compofsd of nine, ten, 
or eleven wedge-fhaped hairy lohes, 
which are narrow at their bafe, where 
they join the foot-ftalk. The flowers 
are placed in whorls round the ftalks 
above each other, forming a loofe fpike 
at the end of the brancho; ; they are 
large, and of a beautiful blue colour, 
but have no fcent. The pods of this 
fort ate large, almoft an inch broad, 
and three inches long, inclofing three 
large roundifh feeds compr.fTed on their 
fides, very rough, and of a purphfh 
brown colour. There is a variety of 
this with flefh-coloured flowers, which 
is commonly called the rofe lupine ; it 
differs from the blue only in the coiour 
of the flower, but this difference is per- 
manent, for neither of the fotts vary. 

This is generally late in the ripening 
of the feeds, fo that unlefs the autumn 
proves warm and dry, they do not ri- 
pen well in England ; therefore the beft 
way to have goo I feeds is to fow them 
in September, clcfe to a warm wall on 
dry ground, where they will live 
through our ordinary winters ; and 
thefe plants will flower early the fol- 
lowing fummer, fo there will be 
time for the feeds to ripen before 
the rains fall in the autumn, which 
frequently caufes the feeds to rot which 
are net ripe. 

The fifth fcrt grows naturally in the 
Levant, but is cultivated infomepaits 

cf 



LUP 



L V C 



•F Italy, as other pulfefor food. This 
hath a thick upright ftalk about two 
feet high, which divides toward the top 
into fmailer branches, garnhhed with 
hand-fhaped leaves, compofed of feven 
or eight narrow, oblong, hairy lobes, 
which join at their bafe, of a dark 
greyifh colour, with a filvery down. 
The flowers are produced in loofe 
fpikes at the end of the branches ; they 
are white, and fit clofe to the ftalk, 
and are fucceeded by hairy flrait pods 
about three inches long, a little com- 
prefTed on the fides, which contain five 
or fix flattifti white feeds, having a lit- 
tle cavity like a navel, in that part 
which i<: fixed to the pod. This is an 
annual plant, which is cultivated for 
ornament in the pleafure garden. The 
feeds muft befown in the places where 
the plants are to remain, and may be 
treated in the fame way as the firft fort. 
The fixth fort grows naturally in 
Virginia, and other northern parts of 
America. It hath a perennial creep- 
ing root, from which arife feveral erect 
channelled ftalks a foot and a half high, 
garnifhed with hand-fhaped leaves, 
compofed of ten or eleven fpear-fhaped 
lobes, which join at their bafe. The 
flowers grow inlong loofe fpikes, which 



terminate the ftalks, and are placed 
without order on every fide the ltalk ; 
they are of a pale blue colour, and are 
fucceeded by pods having three or four 
feeds, which ripen in Auguft, and are 
foon fcattered if they are not gathered, 
for after a little moifture the fun caufes 
the pods to open with an elasticity, and 
call out the feeds to a diftance. This 
fort is propagated by feeds as the for- 
mer, which fhould be fown where the 
plants are to remain ; for although the 
root is perennial, yet it runs fo deep 
into the ground, as that it cannot be 
taken up entire; and if the root is cut 
or broken, the plant never thrives well 
after. Some of the roots of this plant 
have been three feet deep in the ground 
in one year from feed ; they alfo fpread 
out far on every fide, fo that tr - aft 
have room ; therefore theyoung plants 
fhould not bereft nearer than three 
feet afunder. 

LUSTWORT, [Drofira.'] Sundew, 
a plant which grows naturally on bogs 
in many parts of England. 

LYE. A fieep or liquor impregna- 
ted with falts, &c. 

LYNCHETS. Grafs partitions in 
arable fields. 

LYCHNIS. Sk Campion. • 



End of the Firft Volume. 



S A general dictionary of 

4.1 1 husbandry 

G4 

v.1 

Biological 
& Medical 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 

UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 









^0' ^ . 

GENERAL 

DICTIONARY 

O F 

HUSBANDRY, 

PLANTING, GARDENING, 

AND THE 

Vegetable Part of the Materia Medica ; 

WITH THE 

Defcription, Ufe, and Medicinal Virtues 

OF THE SEVERAL 

HERBS, FLOWERS, ROOTS, &c. 

Sek£fed from the Beji AuthoritieSy 

BY THE 

EDITORS of the FARMER'S MAGAZINE. 

VOLUME IL 



B JTH: Printed by R. CRUTTWELL; 
And sold by W. /GOLDSMITH, N0.24, Pater-noster-Row, London, 

AND BV ALL OTHER BOOKSELLERS. 

M DCC hXXlX, 



F 



,.CZC -271965 



nsfyiryy 



7 ,{ 






M. 



MAD 



MAD 



MACE. One of the coverings of 
nutmeg. 5«Nutmig. 

MACCAWTREE. ^^^Palm, 

MAD APPLE. 5« Apple. 

MADDER, [Rutia.] This is the 
Englifh name of a plane cultivated with 
great advantage in feveral parts of Eu- 
rope, and laiely in England, being a 
very capital ingredient in the dying bu- 
finefs. There are feveral fpecies of 
madder, all of which afford a dye. M. 
Guettard, of the Royal Academy of 
Sciences, has experienced that the la- 
dies bed-ftraw, or cheefe-rennet, [gal- 
lium'] may be made to yield one ; and 
of this kind is probably the Ray-de- 
chaye, which is ufed on the coaft of 
Coromandel for dying red. M. Dam- 
bourney has not, indeed, as M. Duha- 
mel remarks, hitherto been able to 
extract a good colour from the gallium : 
but there yet remains room to hope 
that he may be more fuccefsful in the 
future experiments which he intends 
to make on this root. 

Mr. Ray mentions and defcribes four 
different kinds of gallium or moilugo, 
baftard madder, which, after the lauda- 
ble example of our enterprizing neigh- 
bours, fhould likewife afford matter of 
experiment to thofe who wifti well to 
this country, and particularly to our 
dyers. 

The azala or izari of Smyrna, per- 
haps more properly written hazala or 
lizary (according to the eallern method 
of pronunciation) which is the fort ufed 
by the French dyers at Darnttal and 
Aubenas, to give cotton thit fine car- 
nation colour for which Adrianople is 
famed, is a true madder. Some fpecies 
of it grow naturally under hedges and 
in woods; and the roots of tliefe,when 
carefully dried, yield as fine a dye as 
theazalaofSmyina. M.Dambourney 
has cultivated a fpecies of madder 
which was found growing wild on the 
rocks of Oiffcl in Noimandy, and the 
roots of this plant have yielded him as 

B z 



beautiful a dye as the azala of the eaft. 
Mr. Ray defcribes particularly a wild 
madder which grows only on St. Vin- 
cent's rock near Briftol, but alfo on 
the rocks about Biddeford in Devon- 
fhire, and in great plenty among the 
hedges almoA all over that county. 
As Mr. Ray calls this the Rubia fyhef- 
tris MonfpejTutana major, and as M. 
Duhamel fufpefls M. Dambourney's 
Oilfel madder to be that very fpecies, 
it furely is a matter of great importance 
to this nation, and well worth the at- 
tention of patriots, to follow M. Dam- 
bourney's example in making proper 
trials of it. 

The fpecies moft commonly ci^lti- 
vated is the Rubla t'm&orumfati'va, com- 
monly known among us by the gene- 
ral name of madder. It is of this fpe- 
cies that the plantations of madder are 
made in Zealand, and in the neigh- 
bourhood of Lifle. 

The root of madder Is a capital drug 
ufed in dying wool, linen, and cotton ; 
and is indifpenfiblyrequifite in printing 
linen and cotton, being the only red 
dye in general ufe for that purpofe. 
It was, at the time when the Society 
for the encouragement of Arts, &c. 
firft engaged in the encouragement of 
it, wholly imported from Holland: 
though it had formerly been a Aaple 
article of produce in our own country. 
We pay annually for this root to the 
Dutch an exceeding great fum; not 
lefs, according to calculation, than near 
three hundred thoufand pounds; and, 
what is flill wcrfe, taking the advan- 
tage of the neceflity we are under to 
purchafe it of them, they have not only 
advanced the price to an exorbitant 
rate; but adulterate and fophiflicate 
the madder in fo badamanner^ as lays 
our manufadlures, in which it is ufed, 
under the greateft difficulties. Thefe 
manufadlures pnoreover, in which it is 
abfolutely necvHary, are of the ut -noft 
iuijiortaiice, 



MAD 

importance to usj particularly the 
printing linen and cotton } which fur- 
nifhes employment to fomc thoufands 
of our women and youth, wlio would 
oihervvife be wafte hands, and many 
of them burthcnlome to the public. 
Nothing, therefore, could be more wor- 
thy the regard of the fociety, than the 
introduftion of the culture of madder 
here ; which may tend to the national 
good fo many different ways. 

There was however, at firft, an al- 
moft infurmountable impediment to 
the culture of madder in England. It 
confifled in this circumrtance, that 
madder being a crop railed on land, it 
was fubjeft to pay the tithe in kind : 
which was in fad fo heavy a tax on 
the produce, as together with the great 
expence and rifle, from the want of a 
more perfeft knowledge of the man- 
ner of cultivation, alnioft entirely dif- 
couraged all attempts in a larger way. 
This obftacle was, neverthelefs, remo- 
ved through the endeavours of the So- 
ciety, by the obtaining an aft of par- 
liament, to change the demand of tythe 
in kind to a modus, or compofition, 
of five fhlHings per acre, for a term of 
years. Tlie fcciety thus, by their in- 
terpofition in this matter, procured the 
firit opening to that fuccefs, which is 
now likely to attend the attempts, to 
refloretheprcduftion of this important 
article to our country. 

The fcciety, the mean time, exerted 
themfelves toincitethe publicattention 
and fpirit, to undertake the culture of 
madder by premiums. The firfi they 
offered was for the producing twenty 
pounds weight, the moft perfed and 
befl cured. This was obtained in the 
year 1755. They then, being by this 
means affured, that a method was 
known in Eogiand of raifing and cu- 
ring good madder, propofed premiums 
forthelargert roots. tv\xnty in number, 
of one, two. or thrte years growth 1 
whicli were accordingly claimed and 
obtained for t.ich kind, in the year 
i-c8, and again in 1759. Furihtr 
j:vJmin(ris were given in JJ&Sj i7^'4> 
and the foilowi'.g years. 

Ma-Jder is a plant of very little 
beauty, it in feme degree refemhles t! c 
common cle,»vers or goole grafs, in its 
mannerof growth. 'I he ilaiks are r.u- 
meious, fquare, and commonly of a 
reddilh colour: they arc weak, lb that 



MAD 

they lie upon the gronnd in their lower 
part ; and in the upper, commonly in- 
tangle one with another. The leaves 
are lont^ and n.rrow, they ftand fix at 
a joint ; fometimes more, fometimes 
fewer, and aredifpoi'cd like the rays of 
a ftar. Their natural colour is a dufky 
green, but they fometimes, efpecially 
toward the lower part of the (talk, 
grow reddifli. The (lalk is hairy, but 
the leaves'are more fo : their hairynefs is 
not a woolly down like that of fome 
plants, but is fhort, rough, and hard, 
fo that they prick the hands wlmn 
touched. 

The flowers grow at the tops of the 
ftalks, ai'd fmall branches ; they are 
fmall, but very numerou?, and of a 
pale yellow. The feeds follow, which 
are contained in a kind of round Httle 
heads; the root, which is the ufeful 
part, is extremely long, and of a beau- 
tiful red colour, dufkyeron thefurface, 
but very bright within. 

The cup in vi-hich the flower of 
madder ftandsis very fmall, and ftands 
upon the rudiment of thai little round- 
i(h fruit in which the feed is to be 
lodged : it is compofed of a fingle green 
leaf, hollowed and divided into foDr 
little fegments at the edge. 

The flower is in the fame manner 
formed cf a fmgle leaf, a little hollovif 
at the bottom, and divided lightly into 
four parts at the edge. In the centre of 
this rife ibur fhort filaments, each ter- 
minated by a fingle button or head, 
from the rudiment of the huit, which, 
as it enlarges a Irttle. fliews itfelf to be 
compofed of two parts ; there rifes a 
finglc filament called the ftyle of the 
fluwer, this comes up in the midft of 
the four filamen:.- juft named, and |s 
divided into f.vo parts to\v.»rd the top, 
each of which has a button to it : this, 
through certain imperceptible aper- 
ture?, admits the dull Irom the heads 
of the other filaments for the rirenmg 
of the feed vcfTel, which then fweJIs, 
ati'l beicmes a kind of double berry: 
iacach pjrt of which, or cch be.ry, 
is container) a fingle feed. 

There .-.re two kinds of madder men- 
tioned by thofc who treat of plants, 
thifeate the fix-leaved kind wc have 
defcribcd. undone which has only four 
leaves at a joint, but the latter is not 
worth the fsritcr's notice. 

Madder being one of thofe plants 
that rooti dcvp, and the value of which 



MAD 



MAD 



Ii In the root; tlie foil for it fliould be 
deep and light. This is the principal 
caution, for it will get nourifhmcnt 
whether the ground be riclier or 
poorer, provided it be not altogether 
barren. A black mould, fuch as is 
common in the fens of England, is very 
proper; and is t!ie fame fjil whereon 
they plant it in Flinders, whence we 
have our grestir fupply. A loamy foil 
that is in fome degice tich, and has 
but little clay iaitscompofition, it alfo 
very proper ; of a mixture of loam and 
jnould, as is very common in many 
parts about the edge* of il.c fen coun- 
tries. A fandy foil will alfo do well 
if properly managed. 

There is no part of England where 
this plant would tlirive better than in 
tliefe places, for they have all the ad- 
vantage of the Flemill) ^roL^nds, and 
this further benefit, that they are drier; 
the Fiemiin often burfting their roots 
by their over moiAure, or occaficning 
ai» expenlive manner of dreffiog to pre- 
vent that accident. 

Whatever be the foil for maHder it 
muft be deep. We have cbitrved it 
is the nature of the root to txrtnd it- 
felf in ler>gcii, and that no art can 
bring it to any great thicknefs; theie- 
fore a depth of foil is the mofl efTential 
point, that it may have room to pene- 
trate. There are ufually produced a 
great many tide roots, which fpread 
along juft under the furface of the 
grouod. Thefe are the provifion of 
nature, for the nourilhment of the 
ftalk and leaves, the great root taking 
almoA all the juices it receives to its 
own nouiifhment. Now as the ftalks 
and leaves of this plant arc of no ufe 
or value, it is idle to provide for tliC 
maintaining them in vigour at the ex- 
pence of the main root. Thefe hori- 
zontal ^oots never come to any value 
themfelves, and as they only take that 
nourifhment which fnouid fuppiy t!ie 
main root, t!ie proper courfe is to 
deAroy them. 

This account cf the nature of mad- 
der, and of the foil that fuits it, natu- 
rally points out a new method of ma- 
naging it to advantatre; of all the 
plants that can he raifed, none is fo 
perfedly fulted to tiie horfe- hoeing 
hufbandry. The foil it requires is 
fuch as perfeflly fuits thofc imple- 
ments; the method of horfe I oeing. of 
jUl other pradice, will the moft etfec- 

B3 



tualiy and moA efliintially cutoff the 
(hallow and horizontal roots; asd an 
tlie main roots arc to be encouraged it 
their growth to theutmoft, no method 
of planting can be fo proper as that in 
rows at a confiderable diAance from 
one arKJther. This direfls in every 
article the horfe-hoeing huA>andry, ai 
the method for r.iiting madder to an 
exceiitrnce, and perhaps fucii a one at 
it never reached yet in England. Th« 
culture of this profitable and ufeful 
fpecies has been recommended fre- 
quently and Itrongly, and has been 
tried at different times with different 
fuccefs, biit always with fome profit; 
we hope therefore that the farmer will 
be encouraged, from what ha; been 
found of the advantages of this crop, 
in methods lefs fuited to its nature, td 
try it in the way we are about to pro- 
pofe; in the which it cannot fail of 
very well anfv erinj liiscare, expence, 
and trouble; and according to which 
there is a reafonable profpeft of hil 
enriching himfelf by it in a lew yean 
culture. 

Madder is to be planted in fpring; 
but the p-eparaticn of t>ie eround fof 
it mud be undertaken long before. 
Let the farmer who intends to raife it 
look carefully out for a field that has 
a dtep light foil, of the nature of either 
of thofe kinds we have mentioned. 
When he has fixed upon the field, in 
autumnpas ibon as the crop is cffthe 
ground, let him plough it up deeply 
and thoroughly. 'Let him le ive it in 
this condition tliree months, and then 
going over it with the plough once 
aga,n, tsar it up to a great depth, and 
thoroughly break and divice it : let 
him then leave it to himfeh lili »he end 
of Ma.rc!). Having fecured his lets, 
let him in thelaA week in March, fend 
in his plough again, fct to its greateft 
depth. As'the ground has been twice 
ploughed before, it wfll very well give 
way to this. 1 lie feta are now to be 
taken off irom the fides and heads of 
the old roots, and flie groui.d i? to bo 
harrowed even. Then a line is to be 
orawn along near tie edge, as in tlie 
plantini': oi liquorice, and the fets are 
to be let into the eround in the fame 
mannt r, at a fcot diAance from one 
another, 

V, iien one row is thus planted, the 
line is to be remove'! a foot ^nd half, 
and another row planted, the fets in 

thi« 



MAD 



M A B 



this not being placed oppofitc to thofe 
in the other, but jurt over againfi tlic 
middle of the fpace between. 

The line is tlicn to be removed to 
the diftance of five foot, and drawn 
IJrait over the ground as before, and a 
row of the fcts arc to be planted there ; 
thus there will be a third row at five 
feet dillance from tlie fecond, and at 
fix and a half from the firft row: the 
line is then to be moved again one foot 
and iialf, and another, being a fourth 
row, is to be planted oppofite the mid- 
dle dirtances of the laft. Thu? the 
whole ground is to be planted out. 
The fets are to ftand every where at 
the fame diftance in the row, as at 
firrt ordered j and the whole field will 
be laid out in double rows, with five 
feet intervals ; the fpace or partition 
between one row and another, of 
each double row, being one foot and 
a half. 

When the fets are all in and lightly 
covered up, let the planter go over 
the places, where they ftand, with a 
gard<in rake, and lay all level. 

The beginning of April is a feafon 
when ftiowers are feldom wanting ; 
but if it flioiild fo happen that there 
are none, there mult be the labour of 
once watering the fets. The beft 
time for doin; it is en the third day 
after their planting, and when this 
is done they may be left to nature. 

The plants will now quickly ap- 
pear, and as thii is a time when the 
encrealing warmth of the feafon, and 
wet from the lhower3,fets everything 
©n growing, weeds will appear among 
them. As thefe mult be principally 
fsediings, for v e fuppofe no roots lett 
in the tillage, they will not at once 
over-ru-n the proper growth, becaufe 
that is planted with good roots ; fo 
that they need not be attacked fofoon 
as ever they appear j but when they 
have got a little height the hand-hoers 
;nuil be fcnt in to clear the partitions 
of them between row and row, not 
meddling with rhofe in the five foot 
intervals, except juft on the outfide 
of each row. 

This is to b-- done wfth care and 
rianagemen'^, and a great deal depends 
up.-^n it. The intlruftions to be given 
the hcers are thefe. FirR to take care 
of tlie plants of madder, which being 
fet regularly, and now up at fome 
ht'.s'u, and ising very different in 



their afpc£t from the weeds, cannot 
well be miftsken; all this however 
muft be pointed out to them, and they 
muft beftridlly cautioned-, for the de> 
flruftion but of a few of the plants 
where they are fet feparatc, and each 
intended for a large growth, will be 
a confiderable lofs to the owner. Thi« 
being pointed out to them, they are 
to be fcnt in with direftions to cut up 
all weeds in the fmall partitions, and 
break thefurface of the ground as deep 
as they readily can with thofc inftru- 
ments j then they arc to clear away 
between plant and plant of the mad- 
der j and thence advancing to the out- 
fide they are to cut up the weeds, and 
break the ground for about a hoc's 
breadth all along the rows. 

This done, the plants are to be left 
to themfelves three weeks, in which 
time they will ftrikevery flrongly, and 
the ground juft above them will be ve- 
ry clear of weeds, from the hoeing ; 
but by this time the middle of the 
large intervals will be full of weeds of 
fome growth. 

The horfe-hoe is now to be fent in, 
and is to cut along the middle of each 
interval, to as much depth as it can : 
this v;ill thoroughly root up and de- 
ftroy that growth of weeds, and break 
tlie ground. The weeds will, in great 
part, be buried, and will become a 
kind of manure, for weeds that can- 
not grow foon rot at this feafon, which 
is warm and wet j and the ends of 
fome of tlie longeft fibres of the mad- 
der roots will be broken off, .ind new 
ones will confequentiy grow in great 
quantities from them, as is feen in 
cutting of the fibres of roots in the 
gardener's way of planting; and there 
will be a fine quantity of frefh and 
free earth for thefe new roots, as alfo 
for what farther fhoots the others may 
make; and it will be full of nourllh- 
mentfor them. 

We have faid that the main down- 
right roots are all that are of value in 
his madder plants. Now the hori- 
zontal orfpreading ones, that run un- 
der the furface, are to be confidered in 
two diftinft lights, as tiiey arc larger 
or as t-hey are fmaller, fcr at one of 
thefe times they iinpoverilh, tut at 
the other they feed them; fo that at 
one time they are to be nouriflied, anct 
at another dedroyed. 

It li while they are young that thcjr 
aie 



MAD 



MAD 



are of advantage to the main root. 
This is tiieir condition in the prefent 
inllance, and it is therefore we are 
recommending every method to feed 
and to encrcafe them j and on the 
other hand, we fliall foon after take 
as much pains to dellroy them. I'he 
part of the madder above ground, now 
though of fome bignef»,is not fo large 
as to demand any vaft quantity of 
nourishment; the root, on tlie con- 
trary, is pufhing downward, and grows 
the faAcr the more it isfupplied by its 
fibres, and the lefs it is drained by tlie 
plant above. 

This is the cafe in many inltances 
at the period of growth whereat the 
madder is at prefent, but in none more 
vifibly. The firft nourifliment the 
new planted roots take in, goes to the 
pulhing fome fibres from thtmfelves 
outward, and a fhoot of (ialk and 
leaves upward. This fhoot takes up 
the greater part of the nourilhment 
in the firft days, but afterwards it 
grows flower, and requires a fmaller 
proportion of what is drawn. After 
this there is a period when the main 
root is taken care of and fupplied, 
that it may be able to fend up nou- 
rilhment in abundance to the herb, 
when ripening its flowers and feeds, 
that being the great purpofe oi nature 
in all plants : for this purpofe alfo in 
madder a number of long horizontal 
roots grow out every way under the 
furfacc. 

Thefe horizontal fibres we have 
named, and for which we are now fo 
carefully providing by the horfe-hoe, 
are in time to become thofe long ho- 
rizontal and fide roots. At prefent 
they are very ferviceable, for they draw 
i$i nourifhment in va(i abundance; 
whicli being not demanded in that 
quantity by the plant in its prefent 
fiate, goes according to the dtljgn of 
nature, to the feeding and enlarging 
the main or downright roots. The 
prefent horfe-hoeing h;s vaftly encou- 
raged, filled, and encreafed them ; but 
the next is lo deftroy them. 

Some time after this horfe-hoeing 
there will be weeds again in the par- 
titions, and between plant and plant, 
for this ii a fcafor. that produces them 
very quickly : the hand-hoers reuft 
be fent in again to cut them all up, 
and the plants of the madder being 
kept clear, will have a healthy afpe^t. 



which is very effeatial to the good 
growth of the root, and which they 
would not have if choaked up with 
weeds : fome weeks after this, when 
the madder has grown to a confider- 
able fue, let the horfe-hoe be fcnt in a 
fecond time, with orders to cut much 
nearer one fide, or one row, alter- 
nately; by this means all the large ho- 
rizontal roots on that fide will be cut 
and broken off, and only fmall ones 
wiH grow from the ends of them, 
which will tend to the fervice of the 
main root again. 

The hand-hoers at this laft time 
need not hoe the outfides of all the 
rows, but only alternately of thofe 
near which the horfe-hoe is not this 
time to come, for the next hoeing it 
is to take the others. This inltru- 
ment could not be brought fo near 
the rows while they were young, for 
fear of tearing up or burying the 
plants, but they are too well eftablilh- 
ed now to be in any danger on that 
head, efpecially as it is done ojnly on 
one fide; for the horfe-hoe is to be 
carried along the fartheft fide of the 
next interval all theway, in thecourfe 
of this operation ; fo that it never 
comes near both fides of the fame row. 

The plants will immediately after 
this thrive furprifingly, and advance 
toward their flowering. There will 
need no more hand-hoeing, for they 
will be nowof fuch afizeand flrength, 
as to deitroy all the weeds about them ; 
and the next horfe-hoeing, which will 
be the laft for tliefummer, will com- 
pleat the work for the firft feafon. 

This is to be done as foon as the 
v,/eeds have got fomel-.ead again in the 
intervals, for they will rife there tho' 
they beover-powcied in the partitions. 
The inftrument is now to be carried 
on the other fides of the rows alter- 
nately, fo thac now there will have 
been a thorough and deep cutting up 
of the ground, near both fides of every 
row. 

The hrje horizontal root's, which 
would impoverish the main r oots, and 
be of no value in thenifelves' are now 
broke and cutoff on this fide alfo ; and 
the main roots, which are now larga 
and flrong, have all the advantage of 
tlie nouri.'hmcnt 

The flower and feed of madder are 
wholly ufelefs : and as a plant's run- 
ning to feed impoveri/hes the root, this 
diftates 



M A D 



MAD 



4iAales a new practice in the prcftnt 
cafe, wliicb is the cuttin;; (town the 
plants jull before they are breaking 
eut into flower. 

Let this be done with caution, and 
with moderation. The farmer is not 
lo cut them down clofe to the ground } 
It is enough if he flop their running to 
feed, therefore all he has to do is to 
cut them ofFhalf a foot below the top. 
This will take off ail tlie flower buds, 
and yet will leave enough of the plant 
to draw up a great quantity of fap, 
and keep nature in her proper courfe. 
By this means a valt quantity of rich 
juice, intended for the peifeflion of 
the plant in its ripenefs, will go to the 
main root, for there will be no large fide 
roots to take it up; and the increafe in 
that ufcful part "vill bevery furprifing. 

The ftalks will fhoot out fide branch- 
es from the part where they were cut 
off", and from every joint below, and 
wilt growrtronger for that cutting, and 
very bufhy. Some of thefe will make 
anattc.ipt lo flowering, and they may 
be left to tliemielvcs in it. The few 
flowers that grow upon thefe flioots are 
not like the full and univerfal flower- 
ing of the whcle growth, they will da 
neither good nor harm, and are not 
Tcorth regarding. 

The tirfl fummer will thus pafs, and 
the plants, not having drawn a vr.ft 
deal of noiiriiliment upwards, the 
roots will be greatly ftrengthened and 
enereafed. This wii; be the condition 
of the crop at die autumn of the fit ft 
feafon ; and all that is to be Hone is in 
the famemannerlo promote the growth 
of the root, duringtherertof thetime 
it is to remain in the ground, which 
is to tlie next autumn. A crop of 
fnadder, th.uehit remain but eighteen 
months in the ground, is to be ac- 
counted by the farmer a$ a two years 
ftjndard, becaufe the preparation of 
the l.'nd takes up the other fix. The 
whole courfe is this ; at autumn the 
jjrcund is tube taken for it ; during the 
winter it is to be prepared : and in 
fpring it is to be planted : the next au- 
tumn the plants have had one fummer's 
growth, ard they are to have another, 
fof they mufl remain through thewin- 
ter, and the following fummer: and 
the roots muft be gathered in autumn 
following, which is two yeais from 
the lime of beginniog the prepaiation 
Cil the ground. 



In the ufual way of management, 
when the roots are taken up at this 
time for falc, another piece of land i$ 
to be fought OBtfor thenextcrop; but 
in the method we havepropofed by the 
horfchoeing hufbandry, the fame piece 
of ground may raife madder for ever; 
and will be fitter for it than any other 
could. 

All the winter tfie ground is to lie 
perfeflly quiet : in fpring a fortnight 
before the plants begin to fhoot, the 
horfchoe fhould befent in to cut a deep 
furrow in the center of every large in- 
terval, and the hand-hoers to cut up 
thofe weeds that rife in the partitions. 
After this there will be no more care 
needful about them, for the growth 
will be too flrong to fufFer any annoy- 
ance ; but the intervals will have weeds, 
and fhould be horfehoed jufl as in the 
preceding fummer, to prevent their far- 
ther growth, and to give newfupplies 
of nourifbment to the main roots, as 
well as to cut away and dcftroy the fide 
or horizontal ones. 

This is to be done exaftly in the 
fame manner as before mentioned for 
the firft feafon, and therefore needs not 
be defcribed more at large here. By 
this means the crop will jjroceed as it 
ought in every ri.fpefl; and this feafoa 
the whole care will be over. 

In autumn, when the plants wi- 
ther, is the time to take up the roots ; 
this muft be done with care and cir- 
cumfpidion,- for the more they are 
broke in the ground, the mere of them 
is loft. The regular method of plant- 
ing them comcj in here to be of great 
ufc, for the people employed to take 
them up know where to look for them 
one by one, and where they may, and 
where they may not, work about them. 

When they are all taken up they 
muft be cleaned from dirt, and after 
a quantity of fine fets are feparated for 
a Bew plantation, they are to be dried 
for fale. The dyer will be always a 
ready purchafer, nor need the hufband- 
man fear to overftock the market. 

Madder has little or no fmell ; a 
fwectifh tafte, mixed with a little bit- 
tsrnefs. The virtues attributed to it 
are thofe of a detergent and aperient, 
whence it has been ufually ranked 
among the opening roots, and recom- 
mended in obftruftions of the vifcera, 
particularly of the kidneys, in coagu- 
lations of the blood from falls or brui- 
ses 



M A H 



MAI 



1^ 



> 









fes, in tie j.iondicc, and beginning 
dropfie*. 

It ii cbler'. able, that this root, taken 
internally, tinges the urine of a deep 
red colour ; and in the philofophical 
traniaQions, we have an account ot its 
producing a like eftcd upon the bongs 
of animals who had it mixed with their 
food : all the bones, particularly the 
more folid ones, were clunge-i both ex- 
ternally and internally, to a deep red ; 
but neither the flcftiy or cartilaginous 
parts fuffered any alteration : feme of 
ihefe bones, macerated in water for 
many weeks togetlier, and afterwards 
Iteeped and boiled in fpirit of wine, 
loll none of their colour, nor commu- 
nicated any tinge to tl-.e liquor. 

Petty M AP D E R , [yj/perula.] A plant 
growing wild in many woods in Eng- 
land. A'rt WooDRooF. ^ 

MADS. Earthworms. Jca~~ 

MADWORT. lAlyffum?^ There 
are feveral fpecies of thio plant glow- 
ing naturally in warmer climates, yet 
will in general bear the cold of ours. 
They are propagated by flips or feeds; 
the flowers appearin AprilcrMay; are 
various, white, yellow, &c. and lad 
about three weeks in beauty, if the 
weather is moderate. 

MADNESS, in a Do^. There are 
abundance ot prefcriptions for the bite 
of a mad dog ; but whether any are 
^ood we cannot prefume to fay. The 
Ormflcirk medicine is much edeemed ; 
but it we might advife, itftiould be to 
cut out the part or cauterize it imme- 
diateiy. 

MAHOGANY, [Ce^lrus Maiogom.] 
This tree is a native in the warmell 
p.irts of America, growing plentifully 
intheitlands of Cuba, Jamaica, and 
Hifpaniola; there are alfo many of 
them oiitiie Bahama iflands. In Cuba 
and Jamaica there are trees of a very 
large fize, fo as to cut into planks of 
tix feet breadth ; but thofe on the Ba- 
hama iflands are not fo luge, though 
they are frequently four feet diameter, 
and rifd to a great height, notwith- 
llandingtiiey art generally found grow- 
ing upon t!is folid rocks, where t!iere 
ii fcarce any earth for their nouri^- 
nicnt. The wood which has been 
brought from the Bahama iflands has 
nfuaJly pajfed under the appellation of 
.Madei(;a wood, but there is no doubt 
of it-i being the fame wood as the ma- 
.hotjany. 

Vol. n. 



The leaves of this tree are winged 
like thofe of the afli, having commonly 
fix ur tight pair of pinnae (or lobes) 
which are fliorter and broader at their 
bafe than thofe of theafli, where they 
adhere to the midrib by very fliort foot- 
Italksj thefe lobes are very fmooth, 
having but one vc.n running through 
each, which is always on one fide, fo 
as to divide them unequally. The en- 
tire fruit, beforeit opens, is of a brown 
colour; thefe fruit grow ereft upon 
long footftalks, which clofel,^ adhere 
to the five cornered column, run- 
ning throug . the middle of the fruit, 
and to which the leeds are faftcned, ly- 
ing imbricatim like flates on a houfc, 
over each other; fo when the fruit is 
ripe, the outer cover divides at the 
bottom into five equal parts; and 
when thefe fall off. and the feeds are 
difperfcd, the foot-ftalk and column 
remain fome months after on the tree. 

It is propagated by feeds, which 
may beeafily procuied from the Baha- 
ma iflands, from whence moll of the 
good feeds which have come to Eng- 
land were brought; for mod of thofe 
which have been ftnt from Jamaica, 
although brought in their pods, have 
not fucceeded, whereas thofe from the 
Bahama iflands haVe grown as well as 
if they were immediately taken from 
the trees ; the feeds fliould be fown in 
fmall pots filled with light fandy earth, 
and plunged into a hot-bed of tanners 
bark, giving them a gentle watering 
once a week ; if the feeds are good, 
the plants will appear in a month dt 
five weeks ; and when the pLnts are 
two inches high, a fufficient number 
of fmall potslhould be filled with light 
earth, and plunged into the tan-bed a 
day or two, that the earth may be 
warmed before the plants are put into 
the pots ; then theyouni; plants fliould 
be (hr.ken out of the pots, and care- 
fully Teparated, fo as not to tear their 
roots, and each planted inafinglepot, 
being careful to rtiade them till they 
have taken frefli root ; after which they 
muft be treated in the fame manner as 
other tender plants from the fame cli- 
mate, being careful not to give them 
niuch water, efpecially in winter. If 
the plants are properly managed, they 
will make confiderable progrefs. 

MAIDEN. HAIR, [yfrf;tfK//;««.] The 

fpecies are i.T/ie 'jfficinal or true Maider^- 

hair, a, Canada M^idcn-hah; The firffc 

C foit 



M A I 



M A L 



fort is the true Mairfen-Iiair, which Is 
dircdled to be ufed in medicine; but 
as it does not grow naturally in Eng- 
land, fo theTrichomanci is ulnallyfub- 
Aituced for it, which is found growing 
wild in great plenty in fcvc-jl parts of 
England. The other is a native of the 
South of France, It.ily, and the Levant. 
It ufually glows out of the joints of 
walls, and the filTures of rocks, fo that 
whoever is inclinable to keep this pl.int 
in their gardens, fliould plant it in 
pots filled with gravel and lime rubbilh, 
in which it will thrive much better 
than in good earth ; but the pots mufl 
be fheitered under a frame in winter, 
otherwifc the plants are often killed by 
the froft. 

The fecond fort is often prefcrved in 
gardens for the fake of variety; this 
Ihould be planted in pots, and treated 
in the fame manner as the former; for 
akiiongh it will live t!. rough the win- 
ter in theopcnair in moderate feafons, 
yet in fevere (voii it is often dcflroyed. 
This fort grows naturally in Canada 
in fuch quantities, that the French fend 
it from thence in package for other 
goods, and tlie apothecaries at Paris 
ufe it for the Maiden-hair, in all their 
compofitions in whic!-. that is ordered. 
Maiden-hair has been greatly cele- 
brated in diforders >>. t!is brealt, pro- 
ceeding from a thinnefs and acrimony 
of the juices ; and likewife for opening 
obihudions of the vifcera, and pro- 
moting ti;e expeftoration of tough 
plilegm. But modern praftice pays 
little regard to it ; nor is it often to be 
met witli in the fliops. 

Ergnfi! MAIDEN. HAIR, {Trichoia- 
rtj.] There are three orfour varieties 
of this plant, whicligrow naturally in 
Europe j but in America there is a great 
number of fpecies, which arc remark- 
ably different from each other, as alfo 
fram the Europ;an kinds. 

Thefc being of the tribe of ferns, or 
Capillaiy plants, are feldom pref^Tved 
in gardens. Their roots fliould be 
planted in moid Ihady places, cfpeci- 
ally the European forts, which com- 
monly grow from between the joints 
of old walis, and in other very moid 
rt.ady fituations ; but thcfe forts whicii 
are broiight from hot countries muft 
be planted in pots filled with rubbifh, 
and flionj earth mixed, and in winter 
ihcy mu!\ be fcreened from hard froft, 
to which, if they are expofed, it will 
wiii deflroy them, 



The common fort in England is ge- 
nerally fold in the markets for true 
Maiden-hair, which is a very different 
plant, and not to be found in England, 
it being a native of the fouth of France, 
and other warm countries, fo is rarely 
brought into England. 

^^Ai/fM Ai de.n-Hair, [Ruta Mura- 
r:a.'\ A plantgrowingout of old walls 
in many parts of Enzland. 

MAIZE, [Zea] 5« Guinea 

W H K A T . 

Malacca Bean. See Anccad]ur: . 
MALABAR-NUT, [^B/^iad.J This 
plant is a native of Ceylon, but hardy 
enough to live in a green-houfe, in 
EngUnd, without any artificial heat. 
It rifts here with a f^rong woody rtalk 
to the height of twelve or fourteen feet, 
fending out many fpreading branches, 
garniflied with fpear-fhaped oval leaves 
fix inches long and three inches broad, 
placed opi^otite. The flowers are pro- 
duced on Ihort fpikes at the end of the 
branches, which are white with foms 
dark fpots, but are not fucceeded by 
any feeds in Engl.md. 

It may be propagated by cuttings, 
which, if planted in pots in June and 
July, and plunged into a very mode- 
rate hot-bed, will take root, but they 
muft be fcreened from the fun ; and if 
the external air is excluded from them, 
they will fucceed better than when it is 
admitted to them. It may alfo be pro- 
pagated by laying dov^n the young 
branches, which will ta.kc root in one 
year, and then Ihould be put each into 
a feparate pot, and placed in the (hade 
till they have taken ne-.v root; then 
they may be removed to a fheitered 
fituation during the fummer, and in 
the autumn they muft be houfed, and 
treated in the fame way as the orange 
trees, with only tliis difference, that 
thefe require more water. 

MALANDERS. This is an ex- 
ternal diforder of a horfe very painful 
and troublefome, and very difficult of 
cure; infomuch that fome fay nothing 
more is to be attempted th.in to alle- 
viate the pain; ai'dd that it is dange- 
rous to flop the diftemper. 

This is a very unhappy error; for 
there is no degree of the Malanders 
, but may be cured by pioper manage- 
ment; and tliatwith pcrfcft fafety. 

This difeafe fhews itfelf on the fore- 
legs, upon the inner parr, jult againft 
the bending of the knee. 

It 



M A L 



M A L 



It IS not a knob or ulcer like the far- 
cy, but a hard, dry, d^t fcab, of which 
fometimes there is only one great one, 
fomecimeii feveral fmaller; and thtfe 
arc cracked and chopped upon the fur- 
face, and have ItifT hairs like brillles 
growing upon them. 

This is the whole of the diforder ; 
It fometimes is very violent and inve- 
terate, fometimes more flight. When 
it is very bad it makes the horfe halt ; 
and when leafl it occafions him to go 
ftiff till warmed with exercife. 

The general caufc of the malanders 
Is bad management. It is the com- 
mon diforder of horfei kept in a flo- 
venly manner, and much more rarely 
afFeds thofe which are managed more 
carefully. 

Thofe horfes are moft fubjeft to it 
which have mi':> hair upon their legs, 
and they are the moft difficult to cure. 

One eflentiai difference the farmer 
is to make in his conduif^, for a horfe 
under this diforder, which arifes from 
this confideration, that fometimes the 
malanderis only aforenefi in the part, 
while the horfe is otherwifein health j 
fometimes the blood is corrupt and 
bad, and in this cafe the diforder is 
more violent in its degree, and more 
difficult to be cured. 

When the malanderis only theefi'cft 
of careleflhefs, and it is upon a horfe 
otherwife healthful, the method to be 
obferved is this. Let him be kept to 
his ufual work and ufual food j and let 
the following wafh be made for the 
part ; 

" Set on a faucepan with tliree quarts 
of water, put to it half a pound 
of fcenHgreekfeed bniifed, and a 
pound of frefh marfhmallow root 
cut in Hices. Boil all this till it 
is like a jelly, ftrain it off hot, and 
prefs it liard out, then add to the 
thick liquor half a pound of opo- 
deldock ointment," 

Makefome of this hot morning and 
night, and dipping flannels in it,- wrap 
them round the leg where the com- 
plaint is, as hot as the hand can bear to 
touch it. Let this he feveral times re- 
peated ; and at the hit of all, wet 
fome of the ingredients, which mud 
be faved when t!;e liquor has been 
prefTed out, with fome of the liquor 
hot, and lay them upon one flannel, 
cover them with another, and wrap the 



whole round each leg, tying it round 
fo as to keep it on^ but not tight. 

Let this be done every day twice, as 
diredfed, till the hard fubf\anccs begin 
to foften ; after this once in four and 
twenty hours will do; and there will 
thus be a perfect cure. 

Before the firft drefTing let the hair 
be clip'd round about the place, and 
the whole part about the Malanders 
wafti'd clean with warm foap fuds. 
Let this be repeated at times during 
the cure J and after it is periefted, let 
the legs be kept very clean in this part, 
for fear of its returning. 

In thi;> manner a horfe will be cured 
very cafily, and very certainly, that has 
no taint in his blood : but if there be 
that added to the outward malady, 
care rnuft be taken accordingly, by 
giving inward medicines at the fame 
time. 

When this is the cafe, the owner will 
perceive it by his habit of body; and 
by the outward remedy not taking it-s 
defired and natural effect ; he is then 
to proceed thus: 

Let a poimd of crude antimony In 
powder be mixed with four pounds of 
flour of brimftone ; & let fome of this 
be fprinkled among his food. This is 
better in fuel) a cafe than giving it in 
balls or drenches, for he takes it with 
his nourifliment a little at a time, and 
often; and accompanying the food in 
its paffage through the Inteitines, its 
virtue goes into the blood, together 
with the nutritive part of the food. 

I have heard many who fhould know 
fomething better than the vulgar, fay, 
that they would not cure a horfe of the 
malanders if they could ; for that all 
that is prudent i« to keep him from 
growing lame with them. They have 
an old proverb that has miflea them 
from father to fon for many genera- 
tions, which is, " that curing the ma- 
landers is fh'utting up the wolf in the 
fheep-cot." But they m.iy be fure of 
this, not only in the prefent cafe, but 
in all others whatever, that there will 
be no danger of damage in curing any 
outward diforder, when the blood is 
at the fame time reflified within. 

.We have fnewn the ctifference al- 
ready , that when the complaint is on- 
ly external, outward remedies alone 
may be trufled, bur when the blood is 
affecte'^, invvaid tilings murt be given 
to afTiff. Th^ dr.nger tvtn of a mif- 
C 2 take 



V7i'.'"' ■^ . 4.///, p. y /. ' 



M A L 



M A L 



take in thefe cafes, is not fo great as 
thefe perfons apprehend ; for when the 
blood is in fault, and no care has been 
taken to amend it in the cure, the 
common confequence is only, that it 
breaks out a^am. 

MALE BALSAM APPLE. Su 
Appl ' ■ 

MALLOW, [Maha.'i This is a 
plant growing common enough in the 
iiclds, the leaver are ranked the firft 
of the four emollient herbs; they were 
formerly 01 fome efteem, in food, for 
loofening the belly ; at prefent decoc- 
tions oi them are fometimes employed 
in dyfenteries, heat, and fharpnefs of 
urine, and in general for obtunding 
acrimonious humours : their princi- 
pal ufe is in emollient glyders, cata- 
plafms, and fomentations. 

There are feveral fpecies of this plant, 
exotics, cultivated in the gardens, pro- 
pagated by feeds. 

Bajiard Mali. o\v. 5« Bastard. 
J'Tui'iM ALLov.', [Corchorut.'] There 
are feveral fpec'es of this plant brought 
from the Eaft and Weft Indies and 
South America, but are all too tender 
to thrive in England in the open air, 
therefore their feeds muft be fown on 
a hot-bed in the fpring, and wlien the 
plants are come up and fit to remove, 
they fhould be tranfplanted on a frefh 
hot-bed to bring the plants forward. 
After the plants are rooted in the new 
hot bed, they mu/t have tree air admit- 
ted to them every day, for they muft 
not be drawn up weak; and when 
they haveobtainedftrtngth, they (hould 
be tranfplanted each mto a feparate 
pot, and plunged into a hot -bed, ob- 
ierving to fhade them from the fun till 
they have taken roct ; in June tliey 
ftould be gradually inured to che open 
Sit: part of them may be fhaken out 
of the pots, and planted in a warm 
border, where, if the feafrn proves 
warm, they will flower and perfeft 
their feeds ; but as thefe will fometimes 
fail, fo it will, be proper to put one or 
two plants of each fort into pots, 
which flioiild be pl.iced in a gljfs-cafe, 
'vhere they may le fcreened from cAd 
vceatherj and from thefe good feeds 
may always be obtained. 

Indian Mallow, [Urfna.'} The's 
arc four fpecies of this plant brought 
jrom China and the coafi of Malabar. 
They are propagated by feeds in a hot- 
bed, and require the affiftancc ••a ilove 
:o preferve ihetn, 



Marffi Mallow, [AIiiiaa.'\ This 
plant grows naturally in moilt places 
in divers parts of Englard, and is fre- 
quently ufed in mt-dicine. It has a 
perennial root and an annual Aalk, 
which perifhcs cvtry autumn. The 
ftalks of this plant grow ereft to the 
height of four or five feet ; thefe «^ro 
garnifhed witli leaves which are hoary 
and foft to the touch, and placed alter- 
nately on the branches; the flowers 
come out from the wings of the leaves, 
which are fha^ed like thofc of the mal- 
low, but are fmaller and of a pale co- 
lour. It may be propagated very faft, 
either by feeds or parting of their 
roots. When it is propagated by feeds 
they fhould be fown in the fpring, but 
if by parting of the roots, the belt time 
is in .lutumn, when the flalks dec^. 
It will thrive in any foil or fituation, 
hut in moifl places will grow larger 
than in dry land. 

This plant has the general virtues of 
an emollient medicine; and proves fia'- 
viceable in a thin acrimonious ftate of 
the juices, and where the natural mu- 
cus of the inteftines is abraded. It is 
chiefly recommended in fharp deflux- 
ions upon the lungs, hoarfenefs, dyfen- 
teries, and likewife in nephritic and 
calculous complaints ; not, as fome 
havp fuppofed, that this medicine has 
any ptculiar power of diffolvingpr ex- 
pelling the calculus; but as by lubri- 
cating and relaxing the veffeh, it pro- 
cures a more free and eafy palTage. 
Alth^a root is fomeiimes employed 
externally for foftening and maturating^ 
hard tumours ! chewed, it is faid to 
give eafe in difficult dentition of chil- 
dren. There are two other fpeciss ot 
this plant brought fron> Portugal anti 
Hungary, both propagated by feeds. 

Roj- Mallow. 5^f Holl vHoct, 

TrM Mallov.', [La-vatcia.^ There 
are feveral tall herbaceous flowering 
annuals and flirubby perennials of. this 
plant, bearing large red, white, and 
porpiifh tlowcrs, continuing in bloom 
from June till Auguft or September, 

They are ail proper ornaments for 
any part of the pleafure ground. The 
annuals p^it'cularly have fingular 
hea'jty, their flowers being large, nu- 
merous, and confpicuous, and very 
proper furniture where );4rge fliowey 
plants are required; and arc eafily aail 
abundantly raifecl from fet'd ii) the open 
S'ound. 



M A L 



M A L 



The flirubby kinds are alfo good fur- broken at the root end, or as Mr. Com - 

fiiture for nirubbcry compartments, brune fays, if it has fuffered a be;<t of 

having targe, llrait, upright, durable 120 degrees, it is unfit to make good 

flems, terminated by branchy builiy malt. It is alfo found by experience, 

heads, and very large foft foliage, that tliat barley taken immediately from 

form a hnc variety in alTemblagc j the field does not malt fo kindly as 



though their fiowers are often hid by 
their large leaves. Thefe perennial 
kinds fhould have a dry foil, otherwife 
are apt to go off in two or three years ; 
a frefh fupply, however, may always 



iliat which has been fome time in tha 
houfe, or mow. Spec ial fhare ould 
be taken that it be free from the feed 
of weeds } lor thefe, in the nnaltinj, 
are apt to give the grain a bad taQe, 



be raifed from feed in the common which cannot by any means be after- 
ground, wards got rid of. 

They are propagated abundantly by By germirationwaU the principles o( 

feed in the open ground in the fpring; bailey are put in adion. The heat 

the annuals in the place where ("owed, which it undergoes in malting feparates 

and the perennials alfo either where and divides its parts; and the vifcidity 

they are to remain, or for tianfplan- virhich it before poffcffed is removed by 

tation. the loofsr texture ol its oils, and their 

Syrian Maliow, [HyMfcus.] This intimate union with the fait, which 

plant is commonly known amoi.g nur- gives malt the fwtetifh tafte that diilin- 

f«ry-menbythenameof Althaea Irutcx. guilhes it from barley. 

I^'ijcous M.^LLow, {Mal'ua'uifcus.] In order to its being malted, the bar- 

This hath a fhrubby flalk, branching ley is put into a ciliern lined witli 

ten or twelve feet high; bearing fcarlet lead or (tone, and covered with water 

flowers, fucceeded by roundiih fcarlet about fix inches deep above the barley^ 

vifcous bcrrie?. to give room for its fwelling. All the 

ycrice Mallow, [Hiiifcus Tikvum.'] good grain will fink in the waterj but 

Trionum, Bladder Ketmia, Flower of after diiring it, the imperfedt or dif- 

an hour. This is an annual plant tempered grains will rife to thefurface. 

bearing flowers of very fhort duration, Thefe fhould be ikimmed off, and gi- 

which in hot weather only juft open, ven to Poultry or hogs, for they vvili 

Vid then wither away in an hour or never make good malr. By the water 

two. Its propagation is by feed fown gaining admittance into the barley, a 

either in autumn or fpring in the place great quantity of the air is expelled, as 

whcrctheyare to remain, leaving about appears from the number of bubbles 



three of the beft plants on the fpot 
Yellvw Mallow. Ste Indian 

Mallow. 

MALT. Barley prepared, to fit it 



which rife en thefurface. 

The barley is left in the water two 
or thrie days, more or lefs, in propor- 
tion to die heat of the weather and the 



for making beer or ale, by flopping it dryne/s of the barley. A judgment is 
/hort in the beginning of vegetation. foimed that grain is fullv faturated 
It is faid, that the foil on which bar- with water, from its appearing tur?id, 



ley grows makes a considerable diffe- 
rence in the grain, and that the barley 
fitteft for malt is that which grows on 
a rich, light, or gravelly foil, and which 
has been raifed from feed brouglu from 
a farm of a different foil and fituation. 
The fulleft and largeft grains of fcch a 
crop fhould be chofen for making malt 



and eafily giving way to an iron rod 
dropped pcrpendjculaily into Jt. Or, 
take a corn from the middle of the cif- 
tern, and hold it f^eadily by the two 
ends, between the fcre-finger and 
thumb : prefs it gently, and if it con- 
tinues firm when fo preffeH, ana the 
fkin does not break, it mult foak Ion- 



It fhould be heavy and perfectly found, ger : ifitcrurties together and feels 
and fuch as has not fuffered any acci- mellow, and the fkin crack, it is wa- 
dent in the field. Irs being a little tered enough. Nicety in this is a ma- 
heated in the mow is -jy fome reck- terial point, and can be learnt only by 
oned an advantage, becaufe the grain exptrience. If the grain fliould be 
will be the more equally dried, and fuffered to remain too long in water, 
will confequently the more equally it would begin to lofe part of its fweet- 
imbibe water. If it has been fo much nefs. When it has been Aeeped fuffi- 
mow-burnt as to look biackifh when cientiy, the water is drawn Qff. 

TI»e 



"y 



- /t* o<v) , 



LW./^/i^^/i^ //' /'/'cr^ //(«■ /^-*cO ^////J'/t. (A'o ///^^,/oc^) 



M A L 



M A L 



The water ufed for this purpofc 
ftiould be thatof aclearrunningftream, 
or rain water; or if fuch cannot be 
had, pond water, provided it be fweet 
and clean, will do very well ; or pump 
water, which fhould be renoered foft if 
it be naturally hard. If the water 
made ufe of be any way tainted, it com- 
municates to the malt a ta(te which it 
never lofes. Mr. Combrune advifes 
the adding of lime to the water in 
which the barley is fteeped : but this 
feems to be improper, becaufe it ap- 
pears from Dr. Home's experiments 
that lime renders water hard. 

From the ciftern, the barley is laid 
in a regular heap or couch, where it 
muft remain thirty hours, or till it has 
contraften a heat. It muft then be 
worked in one or more heaps, and 
turned every four, fix, or eight hours, 
according'as the weather is cold or hot. 
When it begins to fpire, it fhould be 
turned every three or four hours, ac- 
cording to the temperature of the air ; 
and as it comes (lor fo its fpirir.g is 
commonly termed) the heap muft be 
fpre.id thinner to cool it, left it be 
heated too much, and the germination 
ha carried on too faft, by which the oils 
would be too much confumed. The 
turning of it muft be continued in pro- 
portion as it is more or lefs flow in 
growth, fo thit it may be brought to- 
lerably dry to thekiin. When the roots 
begin to deaden, the couch muft be 
thickened again, and often turned, that 
the growth of the roots may not revive. 
At this time, the fpire Ihould be near 
piercing through the outer ficin of the 
barley : for if it. grows quite out, the 
ftrength of the malt will be too much 
confumed. After the malt is made 
tiius far, the common praclrce is to 
lay. it at once on t'le kiln : hut the beft 
,way is to gather it all up in one heap, 
to let it lie in that ftate twelve hours, 
and then to turn it every fourth hour, 
during the fpacc of twenty -four hours. 

No'perfon fnouid he fufte; ed to tread 
on the malt with their, rtioes, while it 
is on the floor: becaufe many grains 
.I'c inevitably bruifcd thereby, and 
rliiie, vegetating no longer, afford the 
loots of the other grains a fubftance 
into which they cxterd their fibres, 
snd are by that means entangled in 
bunches : andbendes this, the brui.'ed 
corn acquires a degree of putrefaction 
which taints the. liquor made of the 



nialt intermixed therewith. EquaJ 
care fliould alfo be taken, that the grain 
be not bruifcd by any other means. 

Mr. Combrune thinks, that the time 
moft proper for malting is when t!ie 
temperature of the air is fuch that bar- 
ley begins naturally to germinate, at 
which fcafon the thermometer marks 
from between 32 to 40 degrees. How 
far that time may b« extended, expe- 
rience alone can determine. The 
warmer the weather is, the greater 
muft be the difadvantage under whicb 
the mafftcr labours ; becaufe the mo- 
tion of the fluids is then fo Arong, that 
the procefs goes on too quick, and the 
finer parts are apt to fly oflf; the con- 
fequence of which is, that inftead of a 
fvi'eet, the malt inclines to a hitter tafte, 
the oils being turned rancid. This is 
fo univerfally experienced, that brew- 
ers carefully avoid purchafing what is 
termed latter-made malt. 

The grain thus prepared for drying 
is fpread on the kiln, where, meeting 
with a greater heat than is fuited to 
vegetation, its farther growth is ftop- 
ped. It is fpread on the kiln three or 
4 inches thick, and turned every three 
or four hours. The laying of it thicket 
is often attended with inconveniences, 
among which is particularly its bein.? 
unequally dried ; and therefore that 
fiiould be avoided. The ftrengtii and 
duration of the fire is different, accor- 
ding as the mait is intended to be dt ied, 
pale, amber, or brown. The pale rr.aJt 
requires more Icifure and lefs lire than 
the amber or brown. 

Pale and amber malt are dried with 
coke or culm, whicli not emitting any 
fmoke, give the malt a brigliter colour, 
and do not communicate that bad re- 
lifti which malt has when dried wit!i 
wood, ftraw, &c. the fmoke of which 
taints it. Coke is beft, becaufe its 
lire gives a fteady and conliani heat, 
whereby the malt is diied uniformly. 
If wood, or any vejetaUe fuel be iifcd, 
it fhould be extremely well dried, in 
order that being as free as p'-ffihle from 
nioilture, it may yield the lefs fmoke. 

The fizeof the malt kiln is generally- 
proportioned tothe quantityof maltfor 
which it is intended. Seme build their 
kiln fquare, and others make it r!>»ind ; 
hut t!rs laft is nndoubtedJy the bef* 
form, becaufe the h»at of the fire is 
mors equally Qiftufed therein, .ind the 
grain is of tourfe c^.aree<}u;il!y. drifd.. 
V?.rioi;& 



MA J. 



M A L 



Various fubftances have been made 
ofe of for covering t!ic kiln, fuch as 
tiles, plates of tin, and wi re : of ihefc, 
\hc w'ire I: to be preferred, becaufc it 
does not ccntrafl fo great a degree of 
heat a& to parch the grain in contaft 
with it : but for this very reafon, hair- 
cloth is preferable to any other cover- 
ing ; becaufe, when any part of the 
malt is in immeriiaie contaft with a 
fubrtance more foiid than itfelf, and 
therefore capable of receiving a propor- 
tionably greater degree of heat, the 
malt in coniadt with that healed body 
is parched or burnt, by heat which is 
not equally diftufed through the whole 
mafs, which mafs cannot therefore be 
all equally heated. The hair-cloth is 
fpread upon fmall wooden rafters, and 
thefe arefupported by bars of iron laid 
acrofs the kiln. 

An ingenious and attentive malftcr 
marked the degree of heat in the malt 
whilft on the floor : and the refult of 
his obfervations in this refpeft is as 
follows. During the firfl ten days that 
the malt was on the floor, the heat in 
it was between 50 and 60 degrees. 
Durin5 the next three or four days, the 
heat was increafed from 60 to 65 and 
67 degrees J and during the lafl days of 
it5l)ingthere, to8o, 84, and 87, which 
laft was the degree of heat when the 
malt was put on the kiln. There can- 
not be any abfolute rule as to the diffe- 
rence of heat during the different times 
in the procefs of malting, becaufe it 
mull be fuited to the heat of the air : 
at lead we have not yet fufficient data 
whereon to found fuch a calculation. 
The heat of the malt on the kiln when 
fit for pale malt was 12c degrees, and 
vyhen it was fit for brown the heat 
was 147. 

This intelligent artifl's obfervation, 
that the malt was fit for what is called 
pale malt whsn its heat was at 120 de- 
grees, fuggefts a caution which (hould 
be moft carelulJy attended to, namely, 
that whatever colour it be intended to 
gi\'e to the malt, the heat at firfl fhould 
always be the fame : thus, lor exam- 
ple, malt which is dried to the degree 
of high brown, fliould firlt be rendered 
pale malt, then amber, and fo on pro- 
greffively ; not by a fudden increafe of 
the fire, but by a longer continuance 
thereof. In tliis manner, the whole 
■body of the grain is equally and gradu- 
ally dried j whereas a ftrong and 



quicker fire would parch, or as It were 
finge the outfidc, while the internal 
parts remain moilt: and as thatmoif- 
ture ii afterwaids evaporated, it muft 
crack the furrounding hardened cruft, 
whereby the grain is again damaged 
in another refpeft. 

As foon as the malt is dry, it mufl 
be removed from the kiln, and fpread 
thin, that it may cool to the tempera- 
ture of the air. It cannot be fuppofed, 
that any of its parts are capable of re- 
taining the fire in fuch manner as not 
to fuffcr it to efcape ; though fome 
have conceived that they do. In pro- 
portion as malts are dried, their parti- 
cles are more or lefs feparated, and 
coming in contaft with water, they 
ftrongly attr.ft from it particles which 
fill up their interftices. In mafliing, 
this adlion between the malt and the 
water generates a fmall degree of heat, 
but no Nvay durable j though from 
hence arofe the opinion, that brown 
malt is fuUof fire. 

Barley may, at a medium, be fald to 
lofe by malting one fourth part of its 
weight, including what is feparated 
from it by the roots being (kreened off: 
but this proportion varies, as it is mor« 
or lefs dried. 

The condition of the barley, as te 
its greennefs or ripenefs, at the time of 
its being gathered in, is clearly difcem- 
able when it is melted. If it were ga- 
thered green, it rather lofes than gains 
in quantity, the malt becomes of a 
fmaller body, appears fhrivelled, and is 
often unkindly hard; whHfl, on the 
contrary, that which was cut at full 
maturity increafes in malting, appears 
plump, bright, and clear, if properly 
carried thro' the procefs, and on being 
cracked, readily yields that fine mealy 
fubftancefo much def;reri by brewers. 

Malt which has not hi.d a fufiicient 
time to (hoot, fo that its plume, or 
acrofpire a? the adepts in malting call 
it, may have reached to the inward 
fkin of the barley, remains charged with 
too largea quantity of itsunattenuatei 
oils. All thofe parts which iiave not 
been put in motion by the aft of gene- 
ration, will, wtien laid on the kiln to 
dry, be fo hardrned, as not to be foUi- 
ble in water, and confequently will be 
loii to the ftrength of the drink. 

When malt is fuffered to grow too 
much, or until the fpire has fhot 
through the (kin of the barley ; thou jh 

ail 



M A L 



M A L 



tn tliat is left be roa!t, yet as too large 

a portion oi its oils wit} have been ex- 
pended in vegetation, tlic rv»dltwill be 
greatly diminilhcd in proportion to 
wiut it oui;ht to have been, oc vvlia: re- 
mains cannot befit to brew drink for 
long keeping, bccaufc of the lofi of the 
oils. 

Malt \v!iich has been duly worked 
^n the floor, v.'iU, if it has not been I'uf- 
liciently dried on the lain, be apt to 
gerininate or rprout arieili} perhaps to 
conceive fo great a heat as to take tire ; 
end fhould it continue long with a 
moderate degree of lic;;t, the Icaft e%-il 
that can be cxptfVed is, that it will 
giow ir.orldy and liavc an ill flavour. 

Malt well worked, but ov •r-drie^, 
will be fo iiardened, or it ^f.iponacec-.i' 
quality will be fode!'.royed, that it will 
rot imbibe from riie air that moifture 
■which is recelfary to mellow it, and 
rcniler it ht for brrwing : for when it 
hai been p-tviooily foftened by ti.e 
nioifiure of the air, it mixes more ea- 
/ily &• more intimately with tlie water, 
arrd by that mcar,s>}eldi a more CO) iouo 
cxtraft, than it would otherwife do. 

Malt juft, or bvu lately, taken from 
the kiln, remains warm a ccnfideralMe 
iiine. Until it becomes as cool m tiie 
^rroundin;; air, i: does not mellow by 
the addition of a due quantity of moif- 
ture from the air -. and th^ wort made 
of fuch malt requires a much longer 
boiling before it breaks, than that 
v/iich ia made of malt fome months old. 

The prailice of thofe maimers who 
fprinkle water on malt newly taken 
from the kiln, togive it the appearance 
of having hetn made a proper time, is 
highly bianieable. It is in faft a down- 
right fra\id, praftifed chiefly becaufe 
Itfs grain then fills the buf^el : but a 
farther evil i>, that if it be not uftd 
fpccdily, it hiats, foon grows mouldy, 
and fiifters great damage. 

Mait dried on a kiln not fufiiciently 
h'.'ated m;ift require a proportionably 
Ic:iger time lor it fo rective the due 
cfi'cft of the fire, for want of which it 
will be in the fame liate a? mait not 
thoroughly dried. If the fire be too 
c'jick, or too fierce, inftead of gently 
tvaporating the wator from tlse corn, 
jr fcorches the ouf.vard ftin, and fepa- 
lates it from the body cf the grain. 
The malt to which this happens i* 
cilled blown maltj of which Mr. 
<:ombrune obfcrves, that by the inter- 
nal expanllon cf its paits, it occupies 



a larger fpacc than it ought to do. 
Ht adds, that if fuch a fire be conti- 
nued, it changes fome parts of tne 
grain into fo brittle a fubftancc, that 
the malt is faid to be glafTy. The par- 
ticles which are thus hardened will 
not difTolve, or hut in fmall propor- 
tion : fo that they Irequently occafion 
an almoft total want of txiraft, which, 
in the phrafe ot the art, is termed fet- 
ling the grill. 

The poodncf; of malt may be known 
by tlie following marks. Bite a grain 
of it afundcT, and if it tafles mellow 
and fweec, breaks foft, and is full of 
flour from one end to the other, it is 
good. It has a round body, and if upon 
put'ing fome grains of it in water 
iliey fwim on the furface, it is good. 
Barley finks in water, and mah that 
ii not well made will do the fame: 
but it is to be obferved that this is not 
an invariable proof, becaufe if the malt 
be broken, c." in ihi leafl cracked, it 
will take in water, and (ink. Malt 
that is rightly made will not be hard, 
but cf fb mellow a nature, that if 
drawft over an oak board, acrofs the 
grain, it wiil leave a v-l.lte line upon 
the hoard, like a mark of chaik, its 
fmeil alfo may be confulted ; for malt, 
thougli otherwife good, may havecon- 
trailfcd an iil fcert from the fuel, or 
from the v/ater ufed in the fteeping. 

Before malt is ground, it Ihould be 
freed from ll.e tails and duft, which 
would otherwife heighten the colour of 
the wort, render the liquor muddy, 
and give it a bad tafle, which could 
not aftei M'ards be got rid of. The cy- 
lindrical fieve will be of excellent ufc 
for thii purpcfe. 

The malt muft be broken, in order 
to its communicating its virtue to the 
water. If it be ground too fmall, its 
flour will mix too freely with the wa- 
ter, and caufe the wort to run thick. 
Many are of opinion that the befl way 
is only to crack it, fo that none of the 
grains may come out whole : for the 
iritent is, tliat the water fhould draw 
out an extrad^, but not be mixed with 
the mealy part, in the manner of parte 
or gruel. Some think that malt is 
better ground by a ftone mill, than by 
a rteel one, becaufe the former bruifes 
it, and the latter only cuts the grains. 

After the malt is ground, it ihould 
lie fome time to mellow, in a cool 
room, where no fun comes. The 



M A M 



MAN 



time for this is different, according to 
its kind. Brown malt may be ground 
at from three to fourteen days before it 
is ufed, in order that the corn, which 
is rendered uncommonly hard by that 
degree of drying, may be gradually foft- 
ened by the moillure in tiicairj by 
which means it will become tiie more 
foluble in water. The pale malts re- 
quire only one or two days. After lying 
thus in the air kfs mafhing fuffices, the 
ftrength of the malt is more perfe(fHy 
extracted, and the beer will be conii- 
derably llrongerthan it would be with 
the fame quantity of malt takendiredly 
from the kiln. Care muft be taken 
that it get no damage in lying. 

Mr. Combrune obferves, that malt 
imbibes moirture more readily by being 
ground and expofed for fome time to 
the air, than it does when whole j and 
that as the dampnefs thus abforbed by 
the grain is in reality fo much cold 
water, malt which has been long 
ground requires to be maftied with 
hotter water than it would otherwife 
be neceflary to ufe. 

To know whether malt has been 
mixed with barley unmalted : Take a 
bowl of water and throw into it a cou- 
ple of handfuls of the malt; give it a 
gentle ftirring, and the barley which 
has not been malted will fink to the 
bottom; the half-malted grains will 
have one end funk, being in a vertical 
pofition ; and the good malt will fwim. 

Malt Dust . This is an excellent 
manure fown as a top- drefling on wheat 
in the fpring, efpecially on harlh, clayey 
and ftubborn foils. 

Malt Worm. A cankery fore in 
the hoof of a horfe fo called. 

MAMMEE. This is a very large 
treegrowingboth in Afia and the Wefl- 
Indies to the height of 60 or 70 feet. 

Both thefe trees in their native foil 
produce abundance of fine fruit, as 
large as Catharine peaches, of a yellow- 
i(h green colour, and faid to be of a 
delicate flavour. 

In this country they require to be 
continued conftantly in the ftove, fo 
muft be keptalwaysin pots, and placed 
in that confervatory, where they will 
caufe a fine variety all the year with 
their large fplendid foliage. 

Their propagation is by feed, which 
arrives from "America, &c. in fpring. 
Sow it in fmall pots of light rich earth, 
and plunge them it the bark -bed, 

Vol. JI. 



where they will foon come up ; give 
gentle watetingi, and about Auguft 
tram plant them into fcparate potii a' 
fize large: , plunging them in the bark- 
bed, and give fhadc and water till 
frelh rooted. 

MANCHINEEL TREE, [Hippo- 
mane.] This is a very large tree in its 
native foil, almofl equalling the oak in 
fize ; the wood is much eltcemed for 
making of cabinets, hook-cafes, &c. 
being very durable and taking a fine 
polifh ; it is alfo faid tliat the worms 
will not eat it. As thefe trees abound 
with a milky wul^ic juice, they make 
fires round their trunks before they are 
felled to burn out their juice, otherwife 
thofe who fell them would be in dan- 
ger of lofing their fight, by the juice 
flying in their eyes : for wherever this 
falls upon the Ikin, it will raile blilters, 
and if it comes upon linen it will im- 
mediately turn it black, and on being 
walhed will come in holes. It is alfo 
dangerous working ol the wood after 
it is fawed out ; for if any of the faw- 
durt happens to get into the- work- 
men's eyes, it caufes inflammations, 
and the lofsof fight for lome time; ta 
prevent which, they generally cover 
their faces with fine lawn during the 
time they are woiking the wood. 

This tree hath a fmooth brownifli 
bark, the trunk divides upwards into 
many b^anc^ies, garnifhed with oblong 
leaves ending in acute points, flightly 
fawed on their edee>, and are of » 
lucid green, ftanding on fhort foot* 
flalki. The floweiscomeoutin fhort 
fpikes at theend of the branches, being 
of both fexes in the fame fpike, but 
having no petals they make but little 
appearance; thefe are fucceeded by 
fruit about the fize and of the fame 
fhape as the golden pippm, turning of 
a yellow colour when ripe, which has 
often tempted {^rangers to eai of them 
totheircoft, forthey inflaruj; the mouth 
and throat to a great degree, caufing 
violent pains in the throat and ftomach, 
which is dangerous unlcfs remedies are 
timely applied. 

The inhabitants of America believe 
it is dangerous to fit or lie under thefe 
trees, and affirm, that the rain or dew 
which falls from the leaves will raife 
blifters; but it is very ce:tain that un- 
lefsthe leaves are broken, and the juice 
of them mix with the rain, it will do 
no injury, 

D Thef* 



MAN 



. »/-'.? 



Thefc plants are preferved In fomc of 
the curious gardens in Europe, vyhere 
they can never be cxpcdcd to rife to 
any great height, for they arc too ten- 
der to live in thefe northern countries 
buc in ftovcs; they rife eafily from 
feeds, provided they are good. 

MAKDKAKE, [Mandragora.l This 
plant grows naturally in Spait , Portu- 
gal, Italy, and the Levant, hut \i pre- 
ferved here in the gardens of the curi- 
ous. It hath along taper root, fhapcd 
like a parfnip, which runs three or four 
feet deep in the ground; it is fonne- 
time- fint'le, and at others divided into 
two or three branches, almoft the co- 
lour of parfnip, but a little darker ; 
from this arifes a circle of leaves, 
Vrhich at firft rtand ereft, but, when 
grown to their full fize, fpread open, 
and lie upon the ground ; tliey are 
more than a foot in length, and four 
or five inches broad in the middle, of 
a dark green colour, and a foetid fcent. 
Thefe rift immediately from the crown 
of the root, without any foot-ftalk j 
between them come out the flowers, 
each ftanding upon a feparate foot- 
ftalk about three inches long, which 
alfo arife immediately from the root; 
the flowers are five-cornered, of an 
fierbacepus white colour, fpreading 
open at the top like aprimrofe, having 
five hairy ftamina, with a globular 
germen in the center, fupporting an 
awl-fhaped ftyle. The germen after- 
ward turns to a globular foft berry ly- 
ing upon the leaves, which, when fully 
grown, is as large as a nutmeg, of a 
yellowilh green colour when ripe, full 
of pulp, in which the kidney-fhaped 
feeds are lodged. It flowers in March, 
ai»d the feeds are ripe in July. 

MANGE. A well-known filthy 
difeafe in a horfe, which makes him 
/ rubagainft every' thing he can lean on, 
and if other horfes that are with him 
ire not removed, they are fubje(fV to 
eatch it from him. It is known by 
the hair flaring, and in many places 
peeling away from the ficiri, on which 
3 fcurf will arife. This diforder is oc- 
canoned hy over -heats and colds, hard 
riding, or labour, whereby the blood iu 
corrupted, or by feeding upon un- 
■wholfome meat. To cure this difa- 
greeabie diftemper, we would recom- 
mend the following method : 
" Take of tobacco ftalks half a 
pound, tobacco duft one pound, 
"■ black foap half apound, allum »nd 



Ivl A N 

bay fait eac!> a quarter of a pound, 
green broom a large handful, and 
ftonc limt about the fire of a hen'* 
egg; boil all thefe in two gallons 
of urine, till hall be confumed ; 
when almoft cold, ftir into it an 
ounce of flour of brimftone or 
ftonc brimftone in powder." 
Cut the hair oflf the mane and tail, 
and then curry t!iem all over where the 
diftemper is, till the blood is almoft 
ready to ftatt; then take a piece of 
flannel or woolicn cloih,'and daub the ■ 
hoife all over with the liquor a lit tic ■ 
warm, if tlie weather is not very hot. 

This quantity will drefs the horfe all 
over twice; the ftcond application 
may be two days after the firft; or if ' 
the diforder is very bad, the next day 
following. This remedy will do for 
dogs, ice. See Lf- PROSY. 

MANGER. A wooden trough in 
which horfes corn is put. Mr. Willi- 
amfon advifcs a rack and manger for 
cows in the following words : 

"^I would by all means advife every 
farmer to have a rack and manger for 
his cows, with a loft over for hay, 
from whence it may be put down as 
for horfes ; and he will find that they 
will eat with more fatisfattion, and 
make infinitely lefs wafte, than by the 
common method of laying it on thB 
ground; the manger (hould be about 
feven or eight inches from the ground, 
and always be kept very clean by the 
cow-boy." 

MANGROVE TREE, [Rhlxophora.} 
This is a Weil India tree, of which 
there are feveral fpecies, but they will 
not grow upon land. 

Mangrove Grape. See SeaJIde 
Grapf. 

MANGO TREE, [Mangifera.] Thi« 
plant grows naturally in many parts of 
India, and has by the Portugueze been 
trafplanted to the Brazils and other 
countriss, where it grows to a large 
fize ; the wood is brittle, the bark 
rough when old; the leaves are feven 
or eight inches long, and more than 
two broad ; tlie flowers are produced 
in loofe panicles at the end of the 
branches ; thefe are fucceeded by larg* 
oblong kidney-ftiaped plumbs. 

This fruit, when fully ripe, is greatly 
efteemed by the perfons who reude in 
the countries where it grows, but in 
Europe we have only the unripe fruit 
brought ov^r in pickle ; however, the 
account 






MAN 



MAN 



account given of the ripe fruit by thofe 
who have talted it, ha^ excited the cu- 
riolity of many perfons to procure 
young, plants for their garden* in Eu- 
ropci bu'. hitherto without tft'cft. 
MANOOL, er MANlHEr. Set 

C A S S A n A . 

MANNA. The juice of certain 
trees of the a(h kind (growing in Italy 
and Sicily) either naturally concreted 
on the plants, or exficcated and puri- 
fied by art. 1 here are feveral forts of 
manna in the fhops. Tlie larger pie- 
ces, called flake manna, are ufually 
preferred; though the fmaller grains 
are equally as good, provided they are 
whitCi or of a pale yellow colour, very 
light, of a fweet not unpleafant taite, 
and free from any vifible impurities. 
Some people injudiciouHy prefer the 
fat honey-like manna to the foregoing : 
this h.^s either been expofed to a moid 
air, or rlamaged by fea or other water. 
This kind of manna is faid to be fome- 
timcs counterfeited by a compofition 
offugarand honey, mixed with a little 
fcammony: there is alfo a factitious 
manna, which is white and dry, faid 
to be compofed of fugar, manna, and 
fome purgative ingredient, boiled fo a 
proper confiftencej this may be diftin- 
guifhed by its weight, folidity, untranf- 
parent whitcnefs, and by its tafte, 
which is different from that of manna. 

Manna is a mild, agreeable laxative, 
and may be given with fafety to chil- 
dren and pregnant women : neverthe- 
lefs, in fome particular conftitutions, it 
a£ts very unkindly, producing flatulen- 
cies and dit\enlioncf the vifcera : thefe 
inconveniences may be prevented by the 
addition of any grateful warm arorna- 
tic. Manna operates fo weakly as not 
to produce the full effect of a carthar- 
tic, unlefs taken in large dofes, and 
hence it is rarely exhibited in ihis in- 
tention by itfelf. It may be commo- 
dloufly diffolved in the purging mine- 
ral waters, or joined to the cathartic 
falts, fena, rhubarb, orthelike. Ceof- 
froy recommends accuating it with a 
few grains of emetic tartar: the mix- 
ture is to be divided into '.^veral dofes, 
€ac!i containing one grain of the emetic 
tartar : by this management, he lays, 
bilii us fcrum will be plentifully evacu- 
ated, without any naufea, gripes, or 
Other inconvenience. It is remark- 
able, that the efficacy of this drug is 
greatly promoted, (if the account of 



Vallifnlerl is to bt; relied on) by a fub- 
(tance which is itfelf very How of ope- 
ration, cafia. 

MANURE. This term comprifcS 
all forts of dungs, comports, and other 
materials proper or ufed for the im- 
provement of lands. SeeDuKG,CotA- 
posT, &c. f/l^-ri^/n,.^- /^/1-y //Ji^ 

Manure, therefore, isneceffary to all 
foils, to repair them when exhauftecj 
by the growth of vegetables, and to 
cure the defedts of foils naturally bad, 
fuch as to enrich and fertilize very poor 
land ; to render very ftrong or Itub- 
born land more light, loofe, and plia- 
ble; and to render very light, loofe, 
dry foils, more compa^ and moift : 
and wet land dryer, &c. Strong moiffc 
land is the moft improved by light 
manures, to open and loofen it: very 
light land by the more heavy and moift 
fort of manure ; and wet land by dry 
light comports. Some foils require 
manure annually, others but once ia 
two or three years. 

All forts of horfe-dung. neats dunj, 
hogs-dung, farm yard mulch, or a 
mixture of all or any of thefe together, 
fuits almort all forts of land; or a 
compoft of any or all of theie, and 
chalk, lime, earth, mud of ponds and < 
ditches, cleanfings~bf Itreets, afhes, 
rotten tanner's bark, rotten wood, and 
faw dufl, rotten vegetables, &c. or fuch 
of any of thefe materials as can be had. 
and formed into a compoft-hcap to rot 
together, make a good manure, both 
for corn and grafs-land. 

Rotten tanner's-bark alone, or in 
compoft, is good manure for ftrong, 
cold, corn-land; and will alfo fuit 
grafs, if applied the beginning of win- 
ter, for the rains to wafh it into the 
ground. 

Rotten wood, and rotten faw-duft, 
is very proper for ftrong land. 

Rotten vegetables, fuch as all forts 
of weeds, and the relufe of the kitchen 
garden, &c. laid in heap>, and if mixed 
with mud or,':ny earthy fubltance, and 
the whole lie to rot, they will make a 
tolerable good manure for corn-land. 

Green fern mowed down and laidia 
heaps to rot, is alfo ufed as manure. 

Marie, chalk, lime, &c properly 
prepared, either alone or in compoft, 
are greatly ufed in many places as a 
drefling for corn-land, 

Sea-fand and fhells, &c. being full 
of faltSj are fometimes ufed as manure 

for 



MAN 



MAP 



for ftrong clayey and ftubborn loamy 
foils. 

Sea-weed is likewife employed as 
manure, and being fall of falts, greatly 
improves corn- land. 

A(hes of all forts prove excellent 
manure, efpccially to all rtrong cold or 
moill land; but coal afhes are fuperior 
to thofe of wood, or any otiier kir.d of 
vegetables ; the farmer^ in the coun- 
ties round London have experienced 
this, and they letch them (rom that city 
by cart and wagi^on loads, twenty or 
thirty miles dilt^nt ; for in Lundon 
they in general ufing coal-fuel, prodi- 
gious quant tics of a(hes are daily 
made, and co.'lc^ed in carts and car- 
ried to tlie afh-liills in the environs of 
the city; where numbers of people are 
employed in fifcins them, and feil t!ie 
fiftingj by the fack or load to the far- 
mers for manore; alfo to the brick- 
makers for tempering their loam or 
brick-earth. 

Bonei of animals are alfo iifed as 
manure for ploughvd-land, where they 
aretobehad in due quantities, as about 
London and other great cities. 

Soot is alfo ufed as manure to Cprin- 
kle thinly over corn-land. 

Malt-duft, containing a natural heat 
and Jweetnefs,_ proves an eligible ma- 
nure to molt forts of land, but more 
particularly to Itubborn, clayey, and 
four hi'ilh foils. 

Cleanfingof (treats laid in compoft- 
heaps with horfe-dung, &c. makes ex- 
cellent manure both for corn andgrafs- 
ground. 

All manure for ploughed or digged 
land, Ihould be applied at the time the 
ground is to be tilKd, and not fpread 
about any long time before it is 
ploughed in, efpecially in hot dry wea- 
ther, which would exhaufl the falts, 
and other enrichins; particles ; obfcr- 
■uing however, whtre any hard fubftan- 
ces, as marie, chalk, fhellf, &c. are ufed 
for manure, it is proper to fpread them 
abroad fome confiderable time, expofed 
to the fun, rains, and frort, to pulve- 
rize, before they are plouhged into the 
ground. 

The manuring grafs-land (hould ge- 
nerally be performed in autumn, 
about Michaelmas, or a little before or 
after, and not in the heat of fummer, 
as is offer) praftifed, whereby the fun's 
heat greatly exliaurts ii,s moillure and 
goodnefsj but when done in autumn, 



the rainfoon wafties the enriching par- 
ticles into the ground, to the great be- 
nefit of the grafs, and encreafe of the 
future crop. 

MAPLE TREE, [jlcer.] The fpe- 
cics are, i. The greater maple or fyca- 
camore tree; this is a large growing 
tree, and adapted to encreafe the vari- 
ety in our woods and fields. It is very 
proper, if kept down, for undeiwood, 
becaufe it fhoots very faft from the 
Itool, and makes excellent fuel . There 
is no tree more proper than this to 
form large plantations near the fea ; 
for the fpray, which is prejudicial to 
rr.ort trees, feems to have no bad cffeft 
U})on it. 2. The fmall or common 
maple; this does, not grow to fuch a 
large fizc as tlie fycamore, though its 
timber is of greater value. The tim- 
ber with U" is deemed excellent, and is 
ufed for feveral curious purpofes, fuch 
as mufical inffuments, inlayings, &c. 
For the making of turnery ware alfo, 
fuch as dilhes, bowls, trays, &c. it is 
fuperior to mofl other wood. 3. The 
Virginia alh-leaved maple : This is a 
quick grower, arrives to a large timber- 
tree, and is admirably adapted to caufe 
a beautiful variety in our woods, 
though is not proper to be planted in 
expofed places, the branches being fub- 
jedt to fplit when attacked by violent 
wind^^. The leavtsareof a pal« gretn 
colour, moderately large, and fall off 
pretty early in the autumn. The tim- 
ber is extremely ufeful for turners ; and 
like the Norway maple, ferves all the 
purpofes of the fycamore. It is propa- 
gated by faving the keys, which this 
tree, though a native of Virginia, per- 
fefts in this country. It is alfo propa- 
ga;ed by layers, or by planting the cut- 
ting;;, in a moi(\ fnuation, in autumn. 
4. The Norway maple with plane-tree 
leaves ; this maple will grow to a great 
timber-tree, and therefore fhould be 
raifed to encieafe the variety in our 
plantations. The leaves are of a fhi- 
ning green colour, look beautiful all 
fummer, and die to a golden yellow in 
the autumn. This tree perfe(5>s its 
feeds with us ; fo that it may be raifed 
in the fame manner as the fycamore, 
from the keys. It may aifobe propa- 
gated by layers and by cuttings ; which 
if planted in a moid foil in the autumn, 
will grow. 5. The fcarlet flowering 
maple of Virginia j of this there are 
two forts, Virginian fcarlet-flowering 
maple. 



MAP 



MAP 



maple, and Sir Charles Wager's maple. 
Both of thefe are propagated for the 
dowers, whicli arc of a fcarlet culour, 
and come out early in the fpring. 6. 
The American fugar maple; tliis has 
fome rcfemblance to the Norway ma- 
ple when the plants are young j but aj 
they grow up the leaves are morcdceply 
divided, and their furfaces lef^ fmooth, 
fo that they are eafiiy diliinguilhed 
From this tree the inhabitants ol 
North -America make a very good fort 
of fugar, in large quantitiea, by tapping 
the trees early in the fpring, and boiling 
the juice, which, by the ul'ual proctfs, 
is converted into fugar. 7. The moun- 
tain maple of America: the body of 
this tree is flender, and is covere with 
a whitilh bark. It fends forth feveral 
red branches, and grows about fifteen 
feethigh. 8. The Italian maple: this 
is Ycry common in moft parts of Italy, 
but particularly about Rome, where it 
is one of the larged trees of that coun- 
try, and is efteemed for the fize of the 
leaver, which are large, affoiding a 
great Ihade : fo that thefe trees are 
frequently planted by the fides of roads 
and near habitations. 9. The Mont- 
pelier maple j the Montpelier maple 
grows to about twenty feet high, and 
is a v«ry beautiful tree. 10. Cretan 
maple with three entire lobes to the 
leaves, which are fomev.hat hairy on 
their under-fidc: this grows to about 
the height of the former. The leaves 
are downy, compcfed of three lobes, 
and grow oppofite to each other on 
long downy foot llalks. The riowers 
come out in the fpring, and are very 
feldom fucceeded by good feeds in 
England. 

Maple and fycamore are beft raifed 
from feed ; but as the feeds of the fo- 
reign kinds do not ripen in this coun- 
try, they (hould be procured from 
abroad. In a cool and fhady part of 
the feminary let beds of fine mould be 
marked out about four feet in breadth, 
and with proper alleys. Upon thefe 
let the foreign feeds be regolarly Town, 
lifting over them about half an inch of 
the fineft mould. When the plants 
come up, they. Ihould be kept clean 
from weeds, and frequenly watered; 
and this work muft be duly attendfi to 
all fummer. The fpring following, 
the ftrongeft m^y be drawn out, and 
planted in the nurfeiy, in rowi 'two 
feet afunder, and at the diftance of a 



foot from each other in the rows, lea- 
ving the others in the fcmmary to gaia 
ftreng{h. The fucceeding fpring they 
mult receive the fame culture ; and they 
may remain ih the nurfcry, with no 
other trouble than keeping the ground 
clean from weeds in the fummer, dig- 
ging between the rows m the winter, . 
and taking off all Arong and irregular 
(:dc (hoots, till they arc planted out 
for good. 

Notwithftanding thefe are the gene- 
ral laws ot railing all the fpecies ot ma- 
ple from foreign feeds, the culture va- 
ries with refpcdl to the fcarlet flower- 
ing kind, when the feeds are gathered 
at home. This fpecies brings its feeds 
to maturity the beginning of June in 
our gardens. They (liould be then ga- 
thered, and after having L^ina tew days 
to harden, tl.ey ihould be fown In beds 
of the fip.Eit mould, and covered only a 
quarter of an in.h deep. The beds 
Ihould be hooped, and covered with 
mats in icorching weather; but when 
it is rainy and cloudy, they fhould al- 
ways be uncovered. In about a month 
or fix weeks many of the plants will 
appear; but the far greatcfl part of 
them will not come up rill tfie follow- 
ing fpring. Wh'-n iliefummer-plants 
firft fljew ihtmfelves, they fhould 
hardly ever feel the full beam of the 
fun. The feeds mud be constantly 
covercQ with tlic nia.s in the day- time, 
unlefs c1cud.< and rainy weather hap- 
pens, when they ihould always be nn» 
ccvertd ; during the night no mats 
muft br- put ever the plants, that they 
may have all the benefit of the refrelh- 
ing df.va, air, and cooling (howers. 
When thefe lattev do not fall, watering 
muft be duly attenderi to ; and this is 
all the trouble they will require for the 
fjrft fummer in the feed-bed. 1 he 
fummer following they may beexpofed 
to all weather, when they will only re- 
quire being kept clean from weeds, and 
watered in dry feafons. The fucceed- 
ing fpring the Itrongeft^may be fet out 
in the nurfery-way, like the former 
fecdlings. 

By layers alfo all the fpecies of this 
genus may be propagated ; though that 
method is never pradifed lor the com- 
mon maple and the fycamore. T he 
young Ihoots may belaid down in the 
autumn, winter, or early in the fpring. 
Byjthe autumn following they will have 
Hruck rocr, and become good plants ; 



M A P 



MAR 



when the firongefl fliould be fet out in 
the places where tli' y are to remain ; 
whillt the weakrft may be planted in 
the nurfery, like the feedlings, for a 
year or two, to j^ain firength. 

Maples railld from feeds will grow 
fafter, and arrive at a greater height, 
than thofe raifed from layers ; but they 
will not pro<luce fuch quantities of 
Howers ; which makes he latter me- 
thod more eligible for thofe vho want 
thefe plants for a low (hrubhery. 

By cuttings alfo thefe ttees may be 
propagited : but this meth d ischicily 
praflifed on the alh-lcaved and Norway 
maples, which more readily take root 
this way. The cuttings Ihould be the 
bottom parts of the lait year's fhoots : 
they fhould he taken off early in Ofto- 
ber, and pl;iincd in rows in a mcift 
fliady place. The fpring and fummer 
following they muft be duly vvateied 
as often as dry weathiir makes it necef- 
fary, and be kept clean from Weeds, 
By the autumn they will be fit to re- 
move into the nurfery; though, if the 
cuttings are not planted too clofe, 
tbey may remain in their f:tuation for 
a year or two lon;rer, and then be fet 
out for good, without the trouble of 
pre*, ioufly planting ihem in the nurfery. 
Maples may likewife be propagated 
by budding, grafting, and in-^rching : 
but the other methods being more eli- 
gible, thefe are never pratliled, except 
for the variepated forts, efpecially the 
luge broad -leaved kind. 

Jn order to propagate the varieties 
by budding, let fome plants of the com- 
mon fycamore, one year eld, be taken 
eut of the feminary, and f?t in the nur- 
fery in rows a yard afundcr, and the 
plants about a fojt and half dillant 
frcni each other in the rows ; lot t!ie 
ground be kept clean from weeds all 
fummer, and be dug, or as the garden- 
ers call it, turned in, in the winter ; 
and the fummer following the flecks 
will be of a proper fize to receive the 
buds, which fhould hi; taken from the 
molt beautiiully flripcd branches. 
The belt time for tliis wcik is Augult, 
becaufe, if it is done earli£r,^the buds 
wliUhoot the fame fummer; and when 
this happens, a hard winter will infal- 
libly kill them. Having, therefore, 
budded your ftocks the middle or latter 
end of Auguft, with the eyes or buds 
fronting the north, early in Odlober 
lake cif the bafs matting, which before 



this time will have confined the bark 
and pinched the bud, but not fo as to 
hurtitmuih. Then cut off the ftock 
juft above the bud, and dig the ground 
between the rows. The fummer fol- 
lowing keep the ground clean from 
w.edg ; cut off all natural fide-huds 
from the flock as they come out ; and 
by autumn, if the land he good, your 
buds will have fhot forth, and formed 
tliemfe.ves into trees five or fix feet 
high. They may be then removed into 
the places where they are defigned to 
remain ; or a few of them only may 
be drawn out, leaving the others to be 
trained up for larger 'tandards, to ferve 
for planting out m open places, or fuch 
other purpofes as fhall be wanied. 

MANOR. An ancient royalty or 
Icrdfhip, with demefnes, Sec. 

MAR ACOCK. Paflion flower. 
MARCHES. The bounds between 
England and Wales, or England and 
Scotland. 

MARGUERITE. Daifey. 
MARE. The female of the horfe, 
Sc: Horse. 

MARKING Sficep. This is done 
v.ith a marking iron, either of the let- 
ters oi the owner's name, or of fome ^ 
other device, dipped in ho t pitch or «/<•<; - 
tar, and clapped on fome part ot t]ie 
fheep, to make tliem be known ; fome y 
mark them with ruddle; but both thefe *J^ 
methods are liable to great objection: LOcr//, 
the pitch and tar fpoiling a great deal //^c/i'^ 
of wool, and 'he ruddle wafhing out, 

MARJORAM, \0<\ganum.'\ The 
fpecics, I. Pot or common marjoram. 
2. Winter fweet marjoram. 3. An- 
nual fwest marjoram. 4. Dittany ©f 
Crete. 5. Maijoiamof MountSipylus. 
6. Cretan maijotan). 7. Smyrna mar- 
joram. 8. Egyptian marjoram. 

The tirll tliree forts have great merit 
as cuiinary aromatics for the kitchen- 
garden, and niay alfo be introduced in 
the plcafurc-grtHmd, in patches in the 
open borders to increafc the variety, and 
for nofegays. ic. the variegated peren- 
nial marjorams in particular have a 
pretty efl^efl ; tl.ey are all eafily raifed 
from feed in the open ground in fpring, 
and the perfr''.nial forts alfo by dividing 
the roots ; all of \\hich forts, both pe- 
rennials and annuals, when ciefigned 
for the kitchen garden, fliould gene- 
rally be difjoftd in four feet wide beds, 
the ptrcnnirils in rows a foot afunder, 
where thej' will abide for years j and 

the 



MAR 



MAR 



the annual (on being always raifed from 
/£«! annually, it may cither remain 
wlicre fowcd, or the young plants may 
he planted out in rows fix or eight in- 
ches diltant ; and when defigned to 
have any of the ftrts in llie picafure 
gaarden, difpofe them about the garden 
in patches. 

The laft five fpecies, being exotics 
from waim countries, require (belter 
here in winter, lb mull be potted and 
placed in the green-houfe colJedtion, 
or may be preferved all winter in a 
common garden-lrame, furnifhed with 
lights to put on in nights and cold 
we-ther.* 

Their different methods of propaga- 
tion are,: The hardy perennial fpecies 
by feed and by flip|.iihg the roots ; the 
annual fort only by feed annually j and 
the five green-houfe kinds principally 
by flips and cuttings. 

Sow the feed in fpring, March or 
April, in ar.y bed or border of light 
earth, and rake it in with a light hand ; 
they will focn come up, and when the 
feedlings are a few inches high, plant 
them out in moift weather, in rows 
ten or twelve inches dirtant, finally 
to remain, giving occafional waterings 
till frefh rooted. 

Autumn is the belt feafon for parting 
the roots, though it may alfo be per- 
formed fuccefsfully in fpring. Having 
fome large plants, flip or divide the 
roots into flips, each furnilhed with 
fibres; which plant in rows, as di- 
refted for the feedlings, giving occafi- 
onal waterings, and they will readily 
jjow, and become good bufliy plants 
by autumn following. 

Their general culture is the keeping 
tl*em clean from weeds j every autumn 
cut down the decayed f^alks, loofen the 
earth between the plants, at the fame 
time digging the alleys, fpread a little 
of the earth over the furface of the beds. 

When any are intended for the plea- 
fure-garden, remove them in autumn 
or fpring, with little balls of earth about 
their roots, and plant them where 
wanted. 

All the green-houfe kinds are propa- 
gated by flips or cuttings of the young 
ihoots in fpring and fummer. If you 
plant them early, let it be in pots, and 
plunge them in any hot-bed, they will 
readily take root; but if in fummer, 
they may be planted either in pots, of 
in a fhady border. In either mode of 



planting, give water direflly, which rc. 
peat as occafion may require in mode- 
rate quantities j and if thofe th.it arc 
planted in the open air, cither in pots, 
or in the full ground, are covered down 
withhand-glHlfes, it will facilitatetheir 
rooting; but theglafles muft berenao- 
ved when the plants begin to fhoot aC 
Top. The plants in cither way will be 
rooted the fame year, and towards au- 
tumn may be potted off feparately into 
fmali pots, and afterwards managed at 
other hardy green-houfe exotics. ^ 

MARLE. Marieis a treafure tp i,^CC 
the farmer wherefoever it is found, and yy/ -j 
there is no country in the world wherc^ A^ . 
there is more of it than in England, 
yet there are few places in which it is 
known to lie. The induftry of thofe 
who deal in hufbandry has not been in 
any thing fo flack, as in the fearching 
after this valuable commodity. 

We fnall endeavour to awaken thent 
to a fenfe of their interefl, by fhewing 
Its value : and to afTift them in the 
fearch alter it we (hail endeavour to 
make it known to them by fight and 
feeling in its feveral appearances, for 
thefe diflrr greatly. After this, to 
prevent miftakes in the application, 
the feveral kinds of marie (hall be di- 
flinguifhed, and the paiticular kind of 
land (hewn, to which each properly 
belongs. 

In order to the hufbandman's find- 
ing marles upon his lan'1, he muft firft 
have fome knowledge of them. The 
very fineft kinds have often been 
thrown up accidentally in digging on 
other occafions, and no one has known 
them. The fields have languiflied for 
want of what they contained in their 
own bowels through the ignorance of 
their owner. 

Marie is of feveral kinds, and differs 
greatly in appearance ; but to him who 
will carry a general knov/ledge of it in 
his head, it may be always known in 
whatever form it is found. 

Marie, like other earths, may be 
pure or foul : for thofe beds of matter 
which lie in the earth are fuljjeft to 
mixtures as thofe on the furface, tho* 
not fo frequently : and the deeper 
marie lies, the purer it ufually is. 

We (hall firfi then divide the marles 
into two kinds, the pure and the mixt. 
The pure marles all agree in their tex- 
ture i their difference being only in the 
degree of hardnefe, and in the colour. 
Pure 



MAR 



MAR 



Pure marie is a fubftance not unlike on either till late, becaufe It breaks and 
fuller's-eartli ; ii is foft and fatty to the diflblves liiTioQ as foon as it is txpofed 
touch, it is not tough like clay, nor to the weather. 

dufty like oclire, nor fandy like loam. The colour of marie Is no certain 
but is of a tender fine nature, unlike proof of iti comj-adt, or crumbly na- 
all other forts of earths. . ture; but in general, the bluejjfirmefl, 

When a farmer finds a piece of earth the white foftert, and the red and ycl- 
of this kind, whether it be thrown up low are of a middle degree between 
in digging a well, or by whatever other both. 

accident, let its colour be what it will, Thofe already named are the richefl 
he may depend upon !• it is a marie, and fine(t of the mailes : and as all 
In order to be more confirmed, let hi.ii mixture debafes their value, among the 
throw a piece of it into a bafon of other kind-., which we fhall diftinglfh 
water, and he will find it fwell likeful- by the nameof impnreor mixed marles, 
ler's-carth. ^^^ crumble in the fame the moll impure are conitantl/ of the 
manner of itfelfti. pieces. The harder leall value. Thefc mixed marlcs differ 
and more compaf^ kinds break (lower, not only in colour, but in their very 
the foft and loofe ones quicker, fome natu'-e, according to the fubffances 
almoft immediately. Bur in whatever which have got in among them. Their 
manner It happens, this joined to the colour is no general mark of diftindlion. 
Others is a fure proof that the earth but they may be very well arranged 
under examination is a marie, and let unHer feparate heads, according to the 
him who has fallen by chance upon a fubflances of which they partake, 
piece of it, dig in fearch of the treafure. Thefe being fand, clay, loam, or f^one. 
Of the pure marles there are lour they may be confidered as fandy marles, 
principal kinds, diftinguifhed accord- clayey marles, loamy marles, and ftony 
ing to their colours. A white, a yel- marles : and among thefe laft are alfo 
low, a red, a blue, there is alfo a black, to be comprehended fome which have 
but it is lefs common. atfird thehardnefs of a flonefrom their 

Thefe are to be diftinguifhed under own nature and compofuion, though 
the name of pure .marles of thofe co- they have not a particle of real flone 
lours ; for there are foul and coarfer in them, 

kinds of the fame colours. Many marles alfo, befide thefe natu- 

There are found in different places ral earths and ftony matter, contain 
marles of thefe feveral colours, varying great quantities of fea (hells which are 
in their texture and hardnefs ; but in preferved in them in a Angular manner ^ 
general, the white or whitifh are the for inftead of being petrified, or ren- 
fofteft and lighteft, and the blue are the dered hard, they are made brittle, and 
firmeft and heavieft. For this reafon feem as if they had been calcined, 
the white is generally ufed for pafture Thefe (hells are far from injuring the 
groimds, and the blue forcorn lands. marie in its improving quality ; they 
This cuftom however is not to be on the contrary, are found to encreafe 
cftabli(hed into a law to the farmer ; that virtue. 

though in thofe counties where they There are of thefe feveral kinds of 
' have choice, they ufe the fofteft marles all the before-mentioned colours, but 
for pafture, becaufe they dilfolve moft greyifh or yellowifh are the moft fre- 
freely. and the harder for ploughed quent. The fandy kinds are thericheft 
lands, where they are more affiftcd of thefe impure ones ; and they are fit- 
by tillas^e. Thefarmer who has either teft for ready ufc, for they break to 
of thefe kinds, may ufe it indifferently pieces in the hands eafier than any 
on both occafions, in this manner. others, and crumble the fooneft of any 

If it be the blue firm kind, or any with the weather. In a proper appli- 
of thecompadtlorts.let himlay it upon cation thefe may be accounted of eqtial 
bis CO! n land early in the feafon, that value with any, for on clayey lands the 
the weather may mellow it before the very fand whicli is contained inthem 
laft ploughing: if it be for pafture is ufeful, 

ground, let him in the fame manner lay The loamy marles are the next in 
it on in time, fpreading it thin. If it value among thefe to the fandy, for 
he the white, or any other of the loofe they break ea(;ly with the weather; 
and crumbly kinds, it need not be laid but in thefe at the former, a great deal 



MAR 



M A R 



cf the advantage arifmg from the ufe 
cf them will depend upon a proper 
knowledge of their nature, and their 
ufe on a right foil. 

■ The clayey and ftoney are inferior 
to the others : but on fome lands the 
former arc preferable to thcfe which 
are mere pure : and amonglt tiie Itonty 
kinds there are fome, and they even of 
the hardert, which, when properly 
ii^ellow'd by the weather, are infwiiur 
to none in Richnefs. borne of thcfe 
a large hammer would make no im- 
pre(!icn upon when firft dug up, but 
with fro(t, rain and fun-(hine, they 
have in fix monihs time crun.blsd a- 
way to powder. 

Some of thefe, when broken with 
great labour, and laid upon the 
lands, have for fevcral months appear'd 
like fo many llones fcatter'd over t!ie 
licid$, and feeni'd to damage rather 
than improve ihtufi : but after one 
winter there has not been a piece of 
any one of tlie lumps fo big as a nutmeg 
to be found : and the land has been 
kept in heart ei^ht or ten years by that 
tingle dreifing. 

As theconfideratehuiljandman mud 
fee the vai^ value of Marie, it is na- 
tural thathelhould bethink himfclf of 
feeking for it on his own grounds ; we 
fliall therefore not only encourage, but 
afljft him in the fearch. 

In the firft place he ha|S this to tempt 
hiir. to examine his land in hope of it, 
that it is frequent in many places 
where i: is not regarded or even known : 
and that although fo little obferved, it 
is a commodity fo naturally and ge- 
nerally the produce of England, that 
there are few pieces of land of any 
extent in which one kinder other of it 
may not be found. 

If it be too deep indeed, it may not 
be worth taking up, but that is feldom 
the cafe : it is commoiily near the 
furface. 

The feveral kinds and varieties of 
marie have been fo fully defcribed, that 
the farmer has ali the rcafon in tl.e 
world to fuppoCc he fliall know it at 
fight : we fhall add to thefe thefoils un- 
der which it ufually lies. 

But prior to this, which beginning 
without any certain Information, is a 
more random kind of fearch, we 
would have him examine yvell both by 
report and by tlie appearance of the 
ground, whether marie hat ever before 

Vol. II. 



been dug in his Land, or any wher< 
near its borders. 

If he hear that it has, let him look 
narrowly after thcfe broad and (hal- 
low delves in the ground which have 
been before mentiond, for they are 
certainly tlie places where the pits 
were. If he cnn learn no fuch thirtg 
by report, yet let him fee if there be 
any fuch hollows in the ground, foi' 
tho' lefs cert.iin, ftill they are an evi- 
dence that fomething has been dug. 
It may have been gravelj but marie is 
more likely. 

Wlien he has found any fuch hol- 
lows, let him mind the courfe wherein 
they run, for that way probably the 
vein of marie runs alfo. 

Jf he find only one fuch, let him 
firft obfcr\e how deep it is j for on this 
depends the nature of his fearch, fmot 
by this he may gucfs weether the marie 
lay low or near ti;e fcrface. 

, His bufintfs is to try all about the 
place where the hollow is, for marie. 
If that hollow be very fhallow, let 
him have iioies dug the depth of three 
feet with a fpade ; if deeper, let him 
ufe an augur, fixh as they bore the 
ground with on various occafions. 
Let him bore in a great many places to 
the depth of fix feet j for if the marie 
lie deeper tlian tiiat, 'tis hardly worth 
his digging j but let him examine 
ftrictly every thing the augur brings 
up within this depth. Let him keep 
in his mind the various kinds of marie, 
and if any thing come up that has the 
leaft appearance or refemblance of any 
of thofe ftveral kinds, let him try it 
by feeing if it moulders away in a bafcn 
of water, if it crackles on being put 
into the fire j and what efFeft the iap 
and air t^^ke upen it when it has lain 
two or three nigl.Ls expofcd. 

By thefe means, if there ever have 
been made dug there, and the vein of 
it continues, he v.ill be furc to find 
where it runs ; and he is then to fol- 
low the courfe of it by the augur, and 
confider where lie can open a pit of it 
the rnofi conveniently for the general 
ufe of his land. 

But fuppofe there be not the leaft 
fign upon the ground, or the leaft ac- 
count from report that marie ever was 
dug any where thereabouts ; yet this 
mould not difcouragehim. from enqui- 
ring if there be any ; for there is a time 
for the djffovery of everv thir.g, 

E In 



MAR 



MAR 



fn this cafe he muft firft have re- 
courl'e to what lie can fee upon digging 
any wlicre. If a well be funk at any 
time upon or near Ills land, let him 
look carefully over ail the kinds of 
earth that are thrown up. N^y, if 
a pond be dug, let him make the fame 
ebfervations. 

Let him examine the fides of ditches 
new dug; or cleaned ; and follow the 
plough with a careful eye,',obfciving if 
it an^ wliere turn up mattei- different 
from the foil. For ninrle often is 
within the reach of the plough. 

If he difcover nothing of the nature 
of marie in all theft refearches, let 
him have recourfeto the augur, boring 
in difFertnt places, but chiefly in the 
clayey foils, for under tliefe the marie 
oftenell lies. 

The mellow earth is the next foil that 
5s likely to conceal marie : and after 
this the loamy eaith. It fometimes 
lies under gravel, but feldoni in any 
great plenty : it very rarely is found 
underafandy foil, and then commonly 
in a t!iin vein, and at a great depth. 

The clayey foil not onlyofceneft has 
m^rle under it, but that which lies 
under this foil is ufualiy of the fineft 
kind. The Kentifh mailes gener.illy 
are coveredvvith a foot or two of 
lough clay. In general it is the f.r.ed, 
porert, andriciieil marles the farmer 
is to e.xpeft under a clayey foil. 

It has been obfervtd, the fine black 
mellow earth of the lowlands com- 
monly has under it a bed of tough 
clay. Sometinies it has a think bed 
of fome tine marie, particularly of. 
the reddi(h kind, in the place of the 
clay ; and veiy often a vein of raarle 
comes between the clay and tlie mould. 
The former is the beft for the farm- 
er ; but if the latter prefents itfelf. let 
him follow with his augur the courfe 
of the vein, and he will find it gradual- 
ly thicken till at laft it ufually takes 
the place of the clay. It is here he is 
to open his nvarle pit ; and he will 
often fall upon a bed of marie five, fix, 
or feven feet thick, rifing witliin a 
foot and hah" of th,e furface of the 
ground. 

Sometimes the (lony marles are'found 
under clay or black mould, but it is 
more commonly tJie pure, fatty, and 
tender fort : as to thofe found under 
fandy foils, they are ufually one or 
other of the clayey marles, and, with 



double expence in digging, are not of 
half the value. 

There are fome parts of SulTex where 
a bed of marie comes up within eight 
inches of the fiirfacc. and when open'd 
is found to be ten or twelve feet thick, 
all of (bmc one of the pure and fine 
kinds : and in Chefhire, and alfo in 
Lancafhire, where the belt marles of- 
ten lie under the fine black mould, a 
bed of blue marie has been within a 
yard of the turf, down to four yards 
deep, and they were not then got 
through the vein. 

When the farmer has by the methods 
already defcri bed found out a vein of 
marie, and fix'd upon a convenient 
part of his land for opening of a pit ; 
let him begin by marking out a toler- 
able large place for the work ; and for 
a proper way for the carts that are to 
fetch out the marie. A great deal 
depends upon all this being well or- 
dered,* and now is his time for con- 
trivance. 

He is then to employ his labourers 
to clear a\iray, with pick-axe, fpade, 
and wheel- barrow, all the foil that 
covers the vein of marie, and when 
this is done, ihey are to begin digging 
it. 

The different condition of the marle 
will now he found, and the necelfary 
accidents of treating it. Where it is 
of tlie fineft and tendereft kinds, they 
often work with a kind of hoe, and 
three hoers will tear up as much as 
four can nil into the carts. 

In the clayey kinds they ufe fpades 
for digging, and then the diggers mufl 
be more than the fillers. Sometimes 
thefe are fo dry and tough, that the 
workmen muft have water brought 
to them ro wet their fpades ; and in 
other places they are fo wet, that there 
muft be a pump fet up to keep them 
dry. 

When the marle Is got into the cart. 
It Is to be fliot on the (ieldsj but this in 
a different manner according to it^ 
nature. If it be of the fine foft ten- 
der kinds, the beft way is to fpread 
it as it is taken out of the cart : but 
if it be of the ftoney or other com- 
pact kinds, every load had better be 
fhot feparately, and left in a heap 
for the whole winter, that the froft 
and air may mellow and break it. 

There are very few lands that may 
not be improved by marle, but fome re- 
quire 



MAR 



MAR 



:j\iir€ jt more than others; there arc 
n\(o many kinds of marles, as well as 
many different forts of foils ; and the 
marles of one kind are fit for certain 
Jnnds, and tliofe of other kind) for 
others. A rtrid regard mult be had 
to this, otlierwife, ai already obfcrved, 
the land may be fpoiied. 

In feme places iliey liave a way of 
laying on fuch a quantity ot the marie, 
that they may be faid to add a foil 
father than to improve what was there 
before. Tliis is the pradice in lome 
parts of Che/hire, where they will lay 
fifteen, fixieer, or eighteen hundred 
load of marie upon one of their acres ; 
they will thus in digging and carriage 
l)eliow twelve or fifteen pounds upon 
marling an acre; and then they will 
work it with good management twenty 
or thirty yeais together. 

For the firlt years they plough very 
/hallow j they don't cut up more than 
an inch of the foil for fear of burying 
tlic marie ; fo going deeper in the 
following years. This is a particular 
pradice. 

In the firft place, the foil which re- 
quires marie moft of all, and which is 
the mort improved by it, is the fandy. 
The advantage arifing from this prac- 
tice upon fuch lands, is beyond the 
belief of any who have not feen the 
faft. 

The marie which is fit for this land 
is the clayey kind, and more than all 
others that brownifli or yelJowirti 
marie, which looks like real clay in 
the pit, but is found of fo different 
a nature when examined. This marie, 
or any one of the clayey kind, laid 
thick upon a fandy Col\, gives it at 
once a body and a richnefs. The clay 
that is in it binding the light foil toler- 
ably together, at the fame time that 
the fatty and enriching earth blends 
itfelfwith the whole. 

This is the application of marie, in 
which its virtue is moft fully feen : for 
by this means land, that before would 
yield fcarce anything, has been known 
to produce fuprizing crops ; nay, it has 
been try'd by way of Experiment, to 
marie one half of apieceof newbroke- 
up ground of this fandy kind, and 
leave the other in its natural conditi- 
on ; then both being fown with the 
fame feed, the marled part has yielded 
a plentiful crop, when the other has 
tiot ripend one ear, 



Another great advantage of this 
piaflice is, that in years wherein other 
crops fail, thofc fuccecd which are on 
thcle grounds even to admiration. 
Thus when there comes a dropping 
funimer, while a piece of marled 
fandy foil is in its full vigour, the 
incrcal'c is prodigious. Thefc feafons 
generally hurt tliccropon other lands; 
but they load thti'e with as much as 
can (land upon tliw ground. 

But all this time careAiuU be taken 
that the marie be welp fuited to tlit 
foil; and tl»Js is to be done by this 
rule ; the more fandy the ground is, 
the more clayey the marie mull be. 

Ifarafhyounghurtjandman, hearing 
of the great profit that arifes trom 
laying marie on fandy foils, Ihould 
without any farther thought lay on 
one of the pure fat and tender marles 
before defcri bed upon a very barren 
fandy piece of ground, tho' he put on 
a Cheshire loading, yet the wet would 
wa(h it in, and the fand would fwal- 
low it up in fuch a manner, that the 
whole elfeft would be loft after all the 
labour and expence. 

Next after the fandy, the foil which 
receives moft advantage from marie is 
the loamy ; and this admits the greateft 
improvement of all when the fand in 
its compofition bears an over propor- 
tion to the clay. Some lands, the foil 
of which was fitter to make bricks 
than to yield corn, have been fo impro- 
ved by marie, that the corn has flood 
like a fward of grafs at its firft ap- 
pearance ; and has thriven fo after- 
wards, that every ftalk has come to a 
due maturity. 

The marie for this kind of land mull 
be the pureft and fineft that can be 
had. If the farmer Ihould lay on a 
clayey, or a fandy marie, he would 
onlyincreafe the proportion of one or 
other ingredient of the natural land, 
which already made it barren. 

All that renders a loamy earth at all 
fruitfulin itsnatural ftate is the quan- 
tity of mould that is mix'd in it ; now 
a fine marie is of tl.e nature of that 
mould, only much richer: it blends 
among the loam, and the firn^nefs of 
the loamy foilholds it till it has yielded 
all its virtue. 

Of all the kinds of marie, that which 

agrees beft with a loamy foil, is the 

blue, pure, and tender marie. After 

this the beft is the yellow : but any 

E z marlo 



MAR 



MAR 



Warle that Is light and free from mix- 
ture will anfsver the purpofe. 

Tlie ftony marles have been trydin 
fome counties upon their loamy foils 
with tolerable good fuccefs; pr.rti- 
cularly that fort they call fhale marie, 
laid on a tough loamy foil, abound- 
ing naturally too mucli with cUy. 

This has fucceeded but poorly at firft. 
The fird year fcarce at all, the fecond 
fomewhat better, and the third and 
fourth beft of all. The pure raarle is 
very much pr«ferable fortius foil to the 
i\ony. The farmer may do well to ufe 
any of the ftony kinds wiien he cannot 
get the other fort in the neighbourhood, 
and he will reap confiderable advan- 
tage from it ; but when he can have 
liis choice, the pure marie is preferable 
for this land by many degrees. 

Some of thefe rtony marles, not of 
the hardeft kind, have been ufed on 
fandy foils, but without any great 
fuccefs. 

The praftice of marling lands is 
founded upon reafon ; and that, as 
well as experience, will fhew in what 
manner it (hould be done. The pure 
itiarles are all fatty ; the mix'd kinds 
are either clayey, fandy, loamy, or 
ftony ; now upon confidering this, the 
application is eafy. 

After fandy and loamy foils, that 
whi,h receives moft adv.intage from 
marie is mellow earth : this wants im- 
provement lefs than any other kind, 
but the proper ufe of marie adds to its 
fertility; and there is this farther ad- 
vantage, that there is fcarce any kind 
of marie whatfoever but may be ufed 
10 it : but ftill there arc fome from 
which it has more benefit than others. 

Ploughed land, meadow, & pafture, 
when they have this mellow earth for 
their foil, equally receive good from 
marie. As to grafs lands, only the 
pure marles fliould be ufed to them, 
becaufe they wafti in readily, and don't 
lie about in clots or lumps upon the 
ground. For plough'd lands of this foil, 
any of all the kinds of marie may be 
ufed with benefit. If they be of the 
clayey fort, they break in with plough- 
ing after a little time ; if loamy, they 
blend fo much the foor.er ; if they be 
of the itoney kind, it takes time for 
the weather to divide them, but they 
do very well at lafl ; and finally, if 
tl^ey be of the pur.e.or of the .fandy 



kind, they break wlththefirftdrefTrng, 
and wafli in with the rains immedi- 
ately. 

As to chalkey foils, marie Is not 
the manure moft fuitcd to them of all 
others, becaufe marie is itfelf in fome 
degree of a chalkey nature : never- 
thelefs, it is to be ufed with prudence 
to good purpofe. 

Gravelly foils have the fame advan- 
tage from marie as the fandy, and one' 
reafon of this is, that they always havfe 
fand among the gravel. Thefe let all 
other manures be wnfh'd through them 
by the firfl rains, but the marles of a 
proper kind remain in them. They 
not only enrich thofe lands by their 
own mellownefs, but they give them 
a firmnefs that will make them hold 
other drefllnps. Dung laid on a loofc 
gravelly foil is loft and fwallow'd up 
without any benefit, but dung upon 
fuch a land that has firft been drefled 
with marie, takes the fame effedl as 
upon other foils. 

In this, as in all the other inflances, 
care mufl be taken to fuit the marie 
to the foil ; if a pure marie were ufed, 
it would be wartied through quicker 
than dung; and if a fandy marie were 
chofen , the marley part of that mix- 
ture would be wa(h'd down through 
the foil, and only the fand that was 
among it would remain. This could 
be no improvement to a foil already 
too fandy. 

T!ie proper marlc for a gravelly foil 
is the clayey fort. Tliis is the only 
kind that is proper; and this never 
fails of giving the greateft advantage. 

Lafl of all, we come to fpeak of the 
clayey foils, which are in general fup- 
pofed to be improper for marling to a 
proverb. Every common farmer ca.a 
repeat what is retailed from one to 
another througli all the common 
writers on hulbandry, and can tell his 
fon, 

He that marles Clay, 
Tlirows all away. 

And this he thinks he has two fubftan- 
tial reafons for believing to be true, 
becaufe it is verfe ; and becaufe it is 
in print. But let not the reafonable 
hu(bandman be frighted out of his 
profits by rhymes. 

It may be pofTible enough to throw 
away coft and labour by laying an im- 
proper fort of marie upon a clayey 
ground; 



MAR 



MAR 



gfXJttntl ; and the fame maybe as truly 
laid of any other. But the bufinefs of 
the prefcnt enquiry is the fuiting the 
marie to the land ; and when that is 
obferved, tbe fame beneftt will follow 
from the ufe of it on thefe, as on all 
other foils, 

Exceptin)^ tlie clayey marlts, there 
is no kind of them but is good on clay 
grounds. In the firil place, all the 
pure marles being well worked in by 
tlie plough, blend with the foil, and 
loofen and enrich it. Thefioncy kinds 
are kept on ornearthefurface till they 
mellow and break, and the firmnefs 
of the ground takes in all their benefit : 
the loamy marles, if there be too 
much clay in them, are to be rtjefted 
as approaching to the nature of the 
clayey kind, but if otherwife, they are 
excellent, as they approach to the 
nature of the fandy ones, Thefe laft- 
mentioned are for clayey foils the be(1 
•f all, for they confiit only of a fine 
fatty marie and fand, and they adl 
doubly upon the clay, at once loofen- 
ing and enriching it. As foon as they 
are laid on, they break and crumble 
to pieces } for the fandy marles are the 
brittlell of all the kinds ; and thus 
feparated, the fand gets into the clay, 
and makes way fcr the marie, which 
the rains vvalh thoroughly in, and 
which is then detained among it to 
exert thefullefFedof its fertility. 

He therefore that has a clayey foil 
to manure, and can get at a fandy 
marie, has it in his power to raife his 
land to many times its original value. 

Having taught the praftical farmer 
to know marie when he fees it, liow 
to feek for it on his own grounds, and 
in what manner tofuit the kind to tlie 
nature of the land; it remains to 
in(tru£l him in the manner of ufing it. 

For this is no little article, and in 
this the experience of others only can 
be his guide, comparing their fuccefs 
one with another : for not only the 
praflice of a particular county may 
many times miflead him ; but what 
has been written under the appearance 
of advice is too often falfe. 

As totiie quantity that he fhall lay 
upon his land, fo many errors appear 
en both fides, that the truth feems 
hard to hit. Someof the StafFordfhre 
farmers lay on fo little, that it fearer 
anfwers any purpofe. Some of thtfe 
are contented to ufe twenty loads to 



an acre, and then they have complained 
that what was written of the profit 
by marie was not true. In Chefhire, 
on the contrary, they bury their land 
under fach loads, that they fccm to 
fow their marie and not their ground. 

The medium between thefe pradices 
is the right method ; and he who 
would reap all thofe advantages tbat 
have been declared of marie, mult 
follow that courfe. The right ufe of 
marie is not to put it in the place of 
the foil, but to make a mixture of it 
with the foil, fo as to raife a poor land 
into the condition of one naturally ricli; 
to do this, a due quantiry of the marie 
muft be employ'd ; and to give a ge- 
neral rule, that Ihould be about a 
hundred loads to an acre. 

The belt way of fowing marled 
land is in general under furrow. 

The farmer is not to look for the full 
effeft of this the firil year, but jt will 
lait as before obferved : and the con- 
tinuance will be according to the na- 
ture of the foil, and the kind of the 
marie, feven. ten, twent>, or even 
thirty years. 

When the farmer fees his land that 
has been marled after fair weather look 
all over white, as if covered with a 
hoar froft, he may conclude it wiH 
anfwer his bert expeftaticns. Jt is a 
proof that the marie was good initfelt; 
that it has been ufed in due quantiry; 
and that it is wel! mix'dwith the land. 

Some have delivered this white ap- 
pearance as a mark that there is marie in 
any part of the land where it is fcen j 
but marie cannot difcover itfelt in that 
manner in its natural beds, unltfsthey 
lie almolt clofe to the furface. it is 
therefore of little ufe in that refpecl; 
but on the lands where it has been 
laid, when there is this appearance, 
'tis certain that it is mix'd and n;el- 
iow'd in the ground. 

If the hard and f\ony kinds are ufed, 
they muitbe laidon early in (he feafon t 
if the clayey a littlelater; the loamy 
may be a little later yet than the clayey: 
the pure marles of all kinds, and the 
fandy maries, are to be laid on very 
late. In this the farmer's difcretion 
will direft him after thefe general tules. 
The proper timing of the laying on 
this crefiing regards its effedl for the 
enfuing year; but the harder kinds 
with the beft management will not do 
much fo foon. 

TlK 



MAR 



MAR 



The laft method of laying on the 
marlcis, to (lioot tl)e feveral loads, as 
they arc brout^hc cut of the pit, at 
about equal dillanccs one from ano- 
ther; and then to fpread them all. 
Thiswill occafion the ground to be all 
coverM witii thefame thickncfs. When 
it is thus fpread, it murt be will mix'd 
with the foil, and all laid fmooth and 
level together : and the quickerthis is 
done from the time that the marie be 
taken out of the bed, provided it be 
a pure or a fandy marie, the better; foi 
as thefe crumble to pieces almoft di- 
redlly.the bufinefs is to get them mix'd 
in the ground at once, that tiiey may 
begin to break among it, and fo per- 
fedtlymskeone body of the whole : 
for this is the nature of an improve- 
ment by marie. 

If the field to be marled lielevel, the 
marie is to be fpread evenly over it, 
not thicker in one place than another : 
but if it lie upon a defcent, the bed 
way is to fpread the marie half as 
thick again on the higher part of the 
field as on the lower, for the rains v^'ill 
wa(h enough of its belt part down to 
make all equal. 

It is impoflible to give one and the 
fame direftion for all lands, as to the 
times of marling, and what may be 
rcafonably expelled from them, for 
the nature both of the marie and of 
the foil make an endlefs variety ; but 
t'.K. farmer will fee by his crops when 
tne land needs to be refrellicd. 

MARCH. The third month of the 
year; — in which the 

Prcdu:}: of tki Kitchsn-GarJen art, 

"Winter fpinage, cabbages fprcuts, 
brocoli, favoys, coleworts, red beets, 
carrots, parfoips and turnips. 

Upon the Hot-beds ; cucumbers, af- 
paragus, peas, kidney-beans, purflain, 
ii-c. And, on the warm borders, ra- 
•iifhes, and young fallet-herbs ; asaJfo 
mint, tanfey, tarragon, ifc. if planted 
upon a moderate hot-bed the begin- 
ning of February. 

Fruits flilllafling ; Apples, Loans 
pearmaln, nonpareil, golden ruflet, 
winter pearmain, Pile's rui'fet, john 
apple, pomme d'api, golden pippin, 
Kentiili pippin, Holland pippin, French 
pippin. Stone pippin, Wheeler's ruflet, 
with fome others of lefs note. 

Pears ; burgamot bugi, winter bon- 
creticn, double-flowering Royel d'huy- 
ver, beside cluumontellc, 1* amozelle, 



union or Doflor Uvedalc's St. Ccr. 
main, Farkinfon's warden, cadilliac, 
with fome others. 

Planti ncTv in Flower. 

Some anemonies, crocufes of feveral 
colours, double fnow-drop, perfian 
iris,dens canis,crownimperials, fpring 
cyclamen; early, white, blue and ftarry 
hyacinths, hepatica's, double pile- 
wort, narcilTos's of feveral forts ; early 
tulips, violets, primrofes, polyan- 
thufes,green-flower'd black hellebore, 
fennel-lcav'd black hellebore, wall- 
flowers, double dairies, fome auricula's, 
dwarf Portugal navel-wort,with many 
others of lefs note. 
Hardy Trees and Shrubi now in Flower, 

Almond-tree, doubleflower'd peach, 
Virginian cherry-plumb, mezereons, 
fpurge laurel, laurus-tinus, Spanish 
travellers joy, cornelian cherry, ben- 
jamin tree, and fome others. 
plants tKiu in Flvwer in the Green-koufe 
and Si(/oe. 

Several forts of ficoides's ; fome forts 
of aloes, fedum arborefcens, chry- 
fanthemums, anemonofpermos two or 
three kinds ; germaniums, Aleppo 
cyclamens, polygala frutefcens ; the 
ananas or pine-apple, hermannia two 
forts ; ilex-leav'd jafmine, Spanish 
jafmine, with fome others. 

MARSHY LAND. Marfhy land 
can be made little ufe of without firft 
draining, therefore that bufmefs (hould 
be immediately fet about by a g»od 
hufbandman where it is prafticable to 
be done, or where the expences of 
workmanfhip would not be more than 
equal to the profit; for a farmer 
above all men fhould be careful never 
to buy crops too dear, and on the other 
hand never let a too great covetoufnefs 
prevent his applying all necefTary ex- 
pences to the cultivation and improve- 
ment of his land. — A farmer from 
obfervation will eafily comprehend 
the advantage from draining of marfhy 
land, even from the ditches round his 
farm, which draw off the water from 
his land, but are of themfelves in- 
adequate to marfhes or even fprings— 
we murt here have recourfe to under- 
ground draining — the befl material; 
required for this work, where they can 
be had at a reafonable price, are 
ftones or brick, laid infuch a manner 
as to give a free paflTagc for the current 

of 






0) 



M A R 



MAR 



of water ; and to prevent the earth 
ftiling up the interiliccs, heath (hould 

be put over tlic Itones. If this 

be found unhandy, bavins or faggots 
may be ufed, covered over with heath 
orevenflraw; the belt kind of wood, 
perhaps, is holly, but where this cannot 
be ha<l, oak, alder, &c. may be ufed. 
If there be a tolerable defcent for the 
water to run off, the work will beesfy 
enough, but if that Ihould not be the 
cafe, ditches murtbemadefufficientto 
anfwer the current of water drawn off. 
The upper part of the channel fhould 
be about iS inches, and gradually 
decreafe to four at bottonn, where the 
ftones are thrown in : if bricks or 
fquare ft ones are placed, they may be 
rather wider. 

Land which was in the marftiyor 
boggy ftatemay, by draining, be made 
good land. 

If it is in fuch a fituation as to be 
incapable of being drained, it will in 
general afford a good deal of feed for 
cows in the fummer, but will be im- 
proper for (heep. 

After the land is drained, it would 
be an exceeding good metliod to 
fhave off the upper furface of tlie 
land, and dry it like turf, which Ihould 
be burned on the fpot ; this operation, 
which is called burn-baking, would 
be an excellent manure ior the land, 
and deftroy numberlefs plants which 
would be mifchievous in a ftate of 
cultivation j— when this was done, 
\*e v»ould recommend a crop of oats, 
and no fear of having a good one, if 
rot fown too thick ; after them a fum- 
mer fallow for turnips, and then the 
crops in courfe ai the land may be 
adapted beft for. 

This land well managed afterwards 
will generally turn to very good ac- 
count, and bear very confiderable crops 
for fome years without manure. 

If- it cannot be burn-baked; a crop 
of oats will anfwer very well without, 
but they will be apt to be very rank 
in ftraw and thin in ear. 

Beans planted at one ploughing have 
been known to produce five quarters to 
an acre ; but whatever the firft crop 
may be, we would recommend a fallow 
the next year ; not that the land wants 
reft, but that it will be necelTary to 
deftroyanumber of unprofitable plants 
and weeds which may have taken faft 
hold of the ground. Chalk and lime 



will be acceptable to this frefh turned 
up land, which mull of courfe pollefs 
great degree of fourncfs from it> litua- 
tion; they will correft that fourncfs, 
and fo do good. ' 

The marlh-lands in Llncolnfhlre, 
and many other parts of England, pro- 
duce a fort of grafs, which feeds ftieep 
in a better manner than that of almoft 
any other land, in regard to their hze, 
and the quantity of v.-ool. The fheep 
about Grimfby, and feme other places 
in this county, produce fuch luliy 
wool, or, as tliey call it, wool of fo 
large a ftaple, that three or four lieeces 
ufually make a tod of twenty-eight 
pounds weight. Several hundred loads 
of this wool are yearly carried from 
thefe places to Nc:folk, Suffolk, and 
other parts of the kindoni, for the 
cloth manufadturers. 7 hey fend this 
in large packs, whiclitheycajl pocketi, 
each containing about five and twenty 
hundred weight. 

When mar(h-lands lie flat, It Is ne- 
ceflTary for the owner to keep all the wa- 
ter hecan from them. The iea-waterin 
particular is to be kept from them as 
much as pclFible ; and this is ufually 
done at a very great expence, by high 
banks and walls. 

Two things greatly wanting in thefe 
lands. In general, are good flielter for 
the cattle, and frclh water. The care- 
ful farmer may, however, In a great 
meafure obviate thefe, by digging, 
in proper places, large ponds to re- 
ceive the rain water, and by planting 
trees and hedges in certain places to- 
wards the fea, where they may not 
only afford (helter for the cattle, but 
keep off the fea breezes, which often 
will cut off the tops of all the grafs in 
thefe places, and make it look as if 
mowed. 

Thefe lands fatten cattle the fooneft 
of any, and they preferve ftieep from 
tlie rot. It would be of great advan- 
tage to them, if there were raifed. In 
the middle of every large marfti, banks 
of earth in a crofs, or in the form of 
two ferni-circles, and thefe planted 
with trees ; thefe would ferve as a 
ftielter for cattle, let the wind blow 
from what quarter It would, and would 
foon repay the expences of making. 

There are, in different partsof Eng- 
land, very large quantities of land upon 
the fea-coafls that would be worth ta- 
king 



MAR 



MA R 












.^ 



>> 




> 

'i 




^ 


^« 


>- 


N. 



•^ 



king in, thougli no one has yet thought 
of doinp, it. The coalls aLout Boflon, 
Spaldini^, and many other paits of 
Lincolnfiiirc, givcfiequent inftanccs of 
this.wherc tlie fea falls from the land, fo 
tfaat on the outfide of the fea walls, on 
t!>e owfc, wliere every tide the fait 
water comes, there grows a great deal 
of good grafs, and the owfc is firm to 
ride u|Hin when the svater is ujjon it. 

Thiso'.. !V, wlicn taken in, hardly 
finks any thing at all, and they di? the 
walls iVom the otitlide ef it, all the 
earth they arc made of being taken 
trom thence, and the fea, in a few 
tides, filling it up ag-*in : and though 
the fea, at high water, comes only to 
the foot of the bank, yet or.cc in a 
year or two, fome extiaoroinary iide» 
goover the bank«, though ihey are ten 
feet high. Thefe banks are lifty feet 
broad at the bottom, and three feet at 
the top; and tlie common price of 
makinir them ii three fnillings a pole, 
the earth being all carried in wheel- 
barrows, and the face towards the fea, 
where the grei! tell rtopeis, beiiigturfed. 
MARSH hLDER. ie: Gelder 
Rose. 

Marsh M.mi.ow. Sec Mam.ow. 
Mars.h Tritoil. Sic Blck- 
Be.^n. 
MARTAGON. 5«LiLV. 
MARVEL of PERU, [Mlrahills.] 
There are three fpecies, the common, 
the long-flowered, and the foiked. 
They all fitfwer in July, continuing in 
fucceffion until Oftobsr, very confpicu- 
ous and elegant. Having the finguiarity 
of being fhut all day, and expand to- 
wards the evening when the fun de- 
clines ; hence the inliabitants of the 
Indies, where they grow naturally, 
called them Fout -o'clock flowers -.their 
time of opening here, however, de- 
pends on the weather, for if cloudy, or 
that the fun is not very vehement, they 
often open great part of the day. 

The tlowers arc univerfaliy herma- 
phrodite, and of one funnel-fliaped 
tubular petal, having the lower part a 
long narrow tube, and the upper fpread- 
ing. 

Thefe plants are naturally perennial 
in root, which, however, if not pre- 
fervcd he.'t inwinrer, prove but of one 
year duiation. but if fheltered from 
froli and wet during the w inter fcafon, 
they will remain alive, and fhcot out 
ftrongly again in fpring: in this country, 



however, ilie plants arc commonly con- 
lidcred as annuah ; beciufe they rife 
front feud in the fpring, and the fame 
year prt-duce flowers and p«rfe^ feed : 
and if left to nature in the open air, 
roiaily perifli in winter, at the hrU at- 
tack of frort or excclfive wet; but, as 
alorefaid, if in autumn, wl)en the ftalks 
begin to alTunie a (late of decay, the 
roots are taken up, and preicrved in 
fand in a dry room ajl winter, and 
planted again in fpring, they fhoct 
out afrefh Itronger than at firft, and 
fomctimes attain four or live feet 
rtaturc, v.ith very fpieading litads 5 or 
if plants growing in pots, having the 
ftcms cut down in autumn, and the 
pots placed in n green- houfe, or garden- 
frames unaer giilfes, t.he roots may 
alfo be preferved found, and will flioot 
out again in fpring as above. 

The roots generally become large, 
tuberous, and flefl\y, covered with a 
dark rind. 

-All tl.efpecies are of 3 tender nature, 
fcarcely able toendure the open air here 
fully day &- night, until May or June ; 
that is, they being taifed from feed in 
fpring, chiefly in hot-beds under glafTes, 
continued & forwarded there until the 
beginning of June, then fully expofed 
in the borders or pots, they become 
large branchy plants in July and Au- 
guft ; and continue flowering until 
Oftober or November, till prevented 
by tlie cold. 

They areallelegant furniture for the 
principal compartments of thepleafure 
ground, they being both very orna- 
mental in the large branchy growth, 
clofely garnifhed with leaves, and by 
flowering fo numeroufly fecm as if en- 
tirely covered with flowers, in conflant 
plentiful fucceflion from July till the 
beginning of winter, as afcrefaid. 

The roots of all thefe plants are a 
grong purgative, and, given in a dou- 
ble quantity, operate equal to the true 
jalap. 

The propagation of all thefpecies is 
by feed in the fpring, either in a warm 
border, or in a hot-bed ; but the latter 
will forward the plants to confiderably 
the earliell and greateft degree of per- 
feftion. 

MARYGOLD, [Calendula.] Thefpe- 
cies are, I. the common mar) gold with 
great varieties, being all hardy annuils. 
z. Cape kafy-flaiked violet and white 
mary^oM. 



MAR 



MAR 



marigold. 3, Naked ftalked violet and 
white Ethiopian marygold. 4 Grafs 
leaved low perennial cape marygold. 
5. Shrubby cape marygold. The firft 
fort in its common fingle flowered ftate 
is regarded only a> a pot-herb, and its 
flowers are the only parts ufed ; but 
fome of the full double varieties and 
proliferous kinds demand attention al- 
io as ornamental plants for the beauty 
of their floweis, which will efftft an 
agreeable diverlity in the common 
compartments of the pleafure ground, 
in aliemblage wir I) other hardy annuals. 

Liicewife the fecond and third forts, 
being hardy annuals, will flower abun- 
dantly, and form a good variety in the 
open borders in the months of June, 
July, and Auguft. 

The fourth and fifth forts, grafs- 
leaved and (hrobby Calendula, produ- 
cing many flowers in long fuccefTion, 
are aifo worthy of a place in our ear- 
dens : but being impatient of froft, 
mult be kept in pots, to have (helter 
of a green-houfe or frame in winter. 

All the annual foris are propagated 
by fowing the feeds in beds or borders 
in March or April, either in the places 
where they are to remain, or for 
tranfplanting. 

When intended to cultivate the firft 
fort for culinary ufes, many either fow 
the fseds where the plants are to re- 
msin, by broad-cafl on the furface, 
and rake them in, or fow tliem in fmall 
fhallovv drills a foot afunder, covering 
them half an inch deep, and when the 
plants in either method have leaves an 
inch broad, hoe them out to twelve 
inches diftance; or they may be fown 
■thick for tranfplantation, and when 
the plants have four or five leaves, 
plant them out in rows the above 
diftance. 

Their flowers being the ufeful parts, 
they wiH be fit for ufe in conftant fuc- 
cefllon from time to time in dry wea- 
ther, and, after drying them in the 
/hade, (hould be put up in paper bags 
for ufe. 

To propagate the annual kinds in 
general as flowering plants, fow them 
cither in patches in the borders, &c. 
where they are to remain, fowing four 
or five feeds in each patch half an inch 
Jeep, but leave only one of the belt 
of the plants in a place ; or the plants 
may be laifed in a bed or border, and 
vvlien they have four or five leaves, 

Vol. II. 



tranfplant them in the order juft d!- 
reaed. 

They will flower and ripen feeds 
abundantly from June to the end of 
0«ober. 

The fourth fort is propagated by 
flipping the heads any time from March 
till September, planting them in pots, 
which, if plunged in a hot-bed, or Jn 
the common earth, and clofe covered 
with a hand-glafs, and occafionall/ 
ftiaded and watered, they will readily 
grow, hardening ibem gradually to 
the air. 

The (hrubby fort is propagated by 
cuttings of its branches, in pots of 
light earth, in April, May, or June, 
plungi ,3 them in a moderate hot-bed, 
or, in default thereof, plunging them to 
the rims in the common ground, gi- 
ving (hade and water, 

African Marvgold. See Arjtl- 
c AN Marygold. 

C(;r« Marygold. See Corn ma« 

R Y G O L D . 

F;j- Marygold. SeeVicoinxs. 

Trer.ch Marygold. 5^^ African 
Mar yGol d, 

Marjh Marygold, [Caltha.'} This 
plant grov\'S upon moift boggy land in 
many parts of England : of this there 
is a variety with very double flowers, 
which for its beauty is preferved in 
gardens, and is propagated by parting 
of the roots in autumn. It fhould be 
planted in a moift foil and;a fliady fitu-- 
ation 5 and as there are often fuch places 
in gardens, where few other plants 
will thrive, fo thefe may be allowed to 
have room, and during their feafonof 
flowering will afford an agreeable 
variety. 

Syrian MARUM, [Marum Syria- 
cum.] This is a fmall ftirubby plant, 
growing fpontaneoufly in Syria, Candy, 
and other warm climates, and culti- 
vated withes in gardens. The leaves 
have an aromatic bitterifli tafte; and, 
when rubbed betwixt the fingers, a 
quick pungent fmell, which foon af- 
fefts the head, and occafions fneezing; 
diftilled with water, they yipld a very 
acrid, penetrating eflential oil, refemb- 
ling one obtained by the fame means 
frorn fcurvygrafs. Thefe qualities fuf- 
ficiently point out the ufes to which 
this plant might be applied} at pre- 
fent, it is little otherwife employed 
than in cephalic fnuffs. It is propa- 
gated by flips or cutungs. 



MAY 



MAY 



Cowwort Mar vM, 9' Mastic. This 
i( a pungent aromatic plant, formerly 
in edeem as a medicinal, plant but now 
rot much in ufc. 

MASH. For horfcs, &c, an infu- 
flon of bran, malt, &c, i\eeps(\, and 
given as fi od when they are indifpofed. 

MAST. .Sff Beech Mast. 

MASLIN CORN^ Rye and wheat 
jnixed together, t/^ /^'y*^ — 

MASTIC KL TREE, [Pijlacia.] This 



flowers from under beli-glalTes, ycun^ 
carrots, artichokes, kidney-beans and 
cuciiirihers upon hot-beds ; purflain 
upon warm borders, or on hot-beds, 
with moft forts of fpring herbs. 
Fruits in Prime, or yct Idfiing, 

Pears ; L'Amozelle, or Lord Che- 
ney's green, Parkinfon's warden, bur- 
gamot de Pacque, Bezy du Chaumon- 
telle, Cadillac, with fome otliers. 

Apples ; golden rulTet, ftone pippin, 



IS a pretty evergreen, requiring fhelter John apple, oaken pin, pomme d'api, 



all the winter, is propagated by layers 
in the fpring, and they will be well 
rooted by the following autumn. 

Ma STICK TREE of Jamaica, A fpe- 
cies of the Cornelian cherry. 

Indian Mastick Tree, [Schinus,'\ 
Thefpecies are, the Peruvian and the 
Brafilian. Both thefe fpecies are fhrub- 
by, durable in root, and top, and re- 
tain their leaves the year round j and 



winter rulVct, and fometimes the non- 
pareil; May and May-duke cherries ; 
and in a warm fituation, fome fcarlet 
ftrawberries ; in the forcing frame, 
mafculine apricots, nutmeg peacAes, 
and fome early plumbs. 

plants now in Flomer. 
Late flowering tulips, anemonles, 
ranunculus's, pinks of feveral forts j 
lilly of the valley, double white narcif- 



being natives of hot countries, require fus, fea narcilTus, tuberofc iris's of fc- 

fhelter here of a good green-houfe in veral forts ; white and yellow afphodel, 

winter ; or, if fheltered in a f^ove, two pylfatilla's, double rockets, pionies 

or three winters whilft young, it will of feveral forts, corn-flags, yellow and 

be an advantage to the plants; how- and pompony martagons, Englifh hy- 

ever, they both fucceed tolerably with acinths, ftarry hyacinth, hyacinth of 

the culture of common green-houfe Peru, blue grape hyacinth, feathered 

exotics. They being pretty ever-greens, hyacinths, bulbous id's, blue aconite 

with finely pinnated leaves, merit a or monk's-hood, Tradefcant's fpider- 

place in the col!e£lion of our tender wort, favoy fpiderwort, bulbous fiery 

exotics, in which they will efFe£t a jjiy^ red day lily, double purple and 

good variety ; let them, therrfore, be large blue periwinkle, peach-leaved 

cultivated in pots of rich eartii, and and nettle-leaved bell-flower, fraxi- 

placcd among the plants of the above nella white and red, hedyfarum cly- 

department. peatum, lychnidea Virginiana, double 

They are propagated by feed ob- German catchfly, Greek valerian 

tained from abroad, alfo by layers and white and blue, double white and red 

batchelors button, double white moun- 
tain ranunculus, double ragged robin. 



cuttings. 

Sow the feeds in the fpring, in pots 
of rich earth, and plunge them in a 
hot-bed, managing them as other ten- 
der feedlini? exotics. 



helianthemums feveral kinds, jacea s 
feveral forts, double feverfew, fea rag- 
wort, veronica's of feveral forts, digi- 



Lajeis of the young branches in the talis or fox-glove, two or thres forts, 
I'pri.ng will be well rooted in one year; buphthalmiims two or three forts, 
and cuttings of the young fhoots, ^^,iti, feveral others of lefs note 



planted in fpring, in pots, and plunged 
in a hot-bed, will readily emit rooti 
in fix or eight weeks. 
/S/^ 'C. z^*^"'^' M-'^TFELON. Blue bottle. 



Hardy Tm: and Skrubs r.ow in Fltrwer. 
White, blue, purple and Perfian li- 
lacs, elder rofe, yellow jelTamine, fy- 
ringa, early white, Italian and common 






-MAUDLIN, {Ac'iil^iea.'] i'airo.v, honey-fuckles, cinquefoil-tree, labur 

nums, two or three forts ; bird-cherry, 
Corniih-cherry, flowering afh, horfe- 
chefnut, fcarlet horfe-chefnut, per- 
fumed cherry, cockfpur hawthorn, 
double flowering hawthorn, male cif- 
tus, mallow-tree. Arbor Judae, cyti- 



iniiioil. 
MAY. The fifth month in the 

year -.—in which tlie 

frcduP.s cf the Kitchen Garden art) 
Radifhes, fpinage, falleting of all 

i'oits, cabbage, brown dutch, Silefia 



and Imperial lettuces, afparagus in fuslunatus,lcorpionfena, bladder fena 
plenty; esrJy psas and bsans, cauli- cytifus fecundus, clufii; lotus or nettle- 
tree 



M E A 



M E A 



tret, fea buckthorn, fplrea falicU fo- 
lio, fpirea opuli folio, fpirea liyperici 
folio, mcrthly, cinnamon, damalk 
and humet-leaved rofes, with fome 
others. 

Piiintt KBW in Flower in the Grces-hcufe 
and Sttme. 
Several forts of ficoides's, fome 
geraniums, aloes, oranges, aloe-leaved 
asphodel, onion- leaved afphodel, Afri- 
can fcabious anemonofpermos's, fal- 
via Africana flore aureo magno, phlo- 
mis's feveral forts, polygala Africana, 
the humble plant, ricinoides folio mul- 
tifido, lotus argentea Cretica, with 
fome others, 

MAYBUSH, Hawthorn. 
May Li L L T . Sr« L: L L V of the Valliy, 
May WEED. See Stinking Ca- 
momile. 

MEADOW. The Farmer in his 
converfation, and writers in their books, 
divide the natural grafs grounds into 
two kinds, not as differing in the fpe- 
cies, but in the place of growth, and 
the intended ufe. Thefe they diftin- 
guifh by the names of meadow and 
parture, and generally underitand, by 
that diilinclion, the grafs intended to 
be cut for hay, and that to be eaten on 
the ground, but this is an uncertain 
manner of fpeaking. By meadow fome 
exprefs the grafs of low grounds only, 
that lie about rivers 5 and by pafture 
only fuch as grows on higher lands j 
but both thefe are by the judicious far- 
mer mowed at times, and fed at times, 
fo that all that Is properly to be under- 
Ilood by the two words is, that being 
ufcd together, they exprefi that part 
of the farmer's land which is not in 
tillage, and they (hould be ufed toge- 
ther, becaufe this variation compre- 
hends ajl grafs ground whatfoever, in 
diftinftion from all that which is kept 
In tilth. 

It is a matter of great importance 
to the farmer, to proportion thefe two 
kinds bf ground, the tillage and paf- 
turage, one to another. There are 
many who call themfelves farmers near 
London, and about other great towns, 
who deal altogether in palturage; and 
this they may do without any necelBty 
of tillage ; but there is is no fuch thing 
as a man's keeping his farm all in tillage, 
wfthout pafture. His cattle muft have 
food, and his fields for corn in the 
common way of huAjandry, require 3 
f reat deal of dung for manure. 



This bring? on the necefTity of keep- 
ing up a prop«rtion between one kind 
and the other, for which there is no 
laying down any general rule ; becaufe, 
according to the nature of his land, and 
the particular courfe of hufbandry he 
follows, more or lefs dung may be 
wanting. 

His experience alone mtift fhew him 
this, but he will find it eafy to make 
alterations where it is neceiFary : the 
laying down a piece of corn land for 
grafs, and thetaking up a piece of grafs 
ground for tilih, being, as we have 
(hewn, very eafy. 

There are particular eftates alfo that 
anfwerbeft in various manners. Ther? 
are fome that are fo rich and proper 
for corn, and tliat lie fo conveniently 
for dung, that a much greater propor- 
tion than the common method may be 
kept conveniently and profitably in til- 
lage ; and there are others naturally fa- 
vourable to grafs, and that lie where 
there is a great demand for it ; and in 
thefe the greater part Ihould be kept 
for pafture. 

As we have fhewn that the dlftific- 
tion into meadow and pafture is very 
little fettled in its meaning, we fhal/, 
to be the better underftood by all, 
fpeak in general of both under the 
name of grafs ground. The hay from 
grafs grounds that lie low, and are 
what is moft properly called meadows, 
is generally in larger quantity than that 
from fuch as are higher; but this lat- 
ter, though there is lefi of it isfweeter. 
The abundance of water that often 
gets into, or upon thefe low grounds, 
makes the grafs rank ; and where they 
lie in the way of conftant wet, they 
naturally produce very coarfe kinds of 
it. We fee rufhes grow in barren and 
wet places, and there are a great many 
kinds of grafs, tho' not enough regard- 
ed , that more or lefs approach to the 
rufhy kind, wliich greatly diminilh the 
the value of the hay, that comes from 
the wetter fort of thefe grounds. 

The grafs grounds that lie high re- 
quire afTiltances from manure, but 
thofe which are lower, and in the way 
of flooding, do not ; the overflowing 
of every river fo far Imitates that of 
the Nile, that it always leaves a mud 
behind it, which ferve? in the placi of 
manure, and makes the grafs fpring 
frefli, as if art had been ufed to recruit 
the flrength of the ground. 

Fz Wc 



M E A 



M E A 



^Ve have named two kinds of grafs 
grounds, but there is a third yet to be 
mentioned, which is fuch as are in the 
reach of fait water, wliether by tiie 
iides of rivers, near the fea, or of the 
fea itfelf. Thefe are a great quantity 
in one part or other of the kingdom, 
and are capable of being turned to 
very good account, their management 
therefore is a material conftdtration in 
a work intended for general ufc. 

Having premifed thus much con- 
cerning the nature and diftin£iions of 
grafs ground in England, we (hall firft 
copfider the three forts fcparately, and 
afterwards the general and particular 
methods of procuring the richelt pro- 
duce from each. 

Thefe are what the farmer generally 
exprellts by the term up-land graft 
grounds} fome, byjwayof diftinclion 
from the lower, call them paftures, the 
other having the name of meadow, 
Thefe Bp-land grafs grounds differ in 
fituation as they lie upon higher or 
lower rifings, or upon their tops or 
fides : they alfo vary greatly in their 
foil, which, tho' it be in general dif- 
ftrent from that of meadows, yet is 
aho.very various in kind between one 
op-land ground and amj'Jier. 

With refpeft to their particular fitu- 
ation, we mull firfl obferve, that as a 
certain degree of expofure is proper for 
grafs, fo there may be too much ; and 
therefore that thofe rilings which are 
of a moderate height, are better for 
grafs than fuch as come under the de- 
nomiatJonof high hills. 

The next difference is, that of their 
lying on thetop,or on the lideof ahillj 
and this is fo great, that it often trebles 
the value in one above the other : no- 
tiring is nwre frequent than for ground 
to be wet and boggy on the top of a 
hill, while it is perfectly fine on the 
fides all the way down. 

Springs naiurally rife on iiills, and 
when they are pent in, they break and 
foak through the very fubllance of the 
ground, and convert the whole upper 
part of the furface into a bog. 

On the contrary, the fide of a rifing 
ground that has a gradual defcent, is, 
of ali tituations that can be named, the 
beft for grafj. in fuch ground there 
generally is moiAure at the bottom, 
which is very elfential to grafs, and 
there is a way for it to run off, which 
":s equalJy neccffary. 



Grafs will not thrive without wafer, 
nor can it be good where there rs too 
much; this ib the great article. Where 
the tops of iiiUs that are any thing high 
have no fpring, the bleakncfs of tlw 
expofure, and the poorncfs of the foil, 
as th^ is commoHy the cafe, render 
the grafs very weak: it is fv;cet, but 
very little of it; and where there are 
fprings, it is general boggy. The way 
of getting off the water we have al- 
ready treated of under the article 
draining; we here fpeak of the natural 
condition. 

Now the fide of a hill, having foil 
and moiAure, feeds a rich and good 
grafs, without having fo much wet as 
to make it rank, or favour the growth 
of luflies, or thofe other bad kinds of 
mixtuie, which generally depreciate 
that which grows on the tops of hills, 
or near rivers. 

As to that in meadows, lying low, it 
h generally a black rich mould, and 
nothing more favours the growth of fine 
grafs ; butthen what thefe grounds gain 
in foil, they lofe by the abundant 
nioilture. 

The up-land paflures, of which we 
treat here, have all that variety of foils 
we fee "n tilled ground ; they are fome- 
times gravelly, foniCtimes loamy, in 
others they are ftcny, chalky, or clayey. 
Of all thcfcjtheioamy foii,wiiere there is 
a good proportion of rich earth amongft 
it, yields the beft grafs-; upon clay, it 
is apt to be coarfe, becaufe of the wet 
it detains ; upon chalk, it is low ; upon 
gravel, it is fweet, but thin; the loam, 
when of the right condition, yields it 
juft in the'middle way between all thefe, 
it is plentiful yet fweet, and affords the 
fineA hay, and the fweeteft and richell 
food for cattle. 

This will direft the farmer, when he 
is about to make changes in the pro- 
portion of his tillage and pafture, what 
to keep for grafs, and what to break up. 

A foil that is too clayey, is liable to 
great inconveniencies with refptftt to 
grafs: in winter it detains the wet a 
long time, and in the fummer it cracks 
and chaps, and no earth is more per- 
ieQly burnt up. 

The black mould, fuch as is in the 
low grounds, yields abundance of fine 
grafs when it lies dry on the fide of a 
hill, but then it is commonly infeAed 
in a terrible manner with worms ; the 
loamy foils are lefs fubjeft to them, and 

ar« 



M E A 



M E A 



:e therefore preferable; fo that on all 
Accounts, that preference is due to the 
rich loams, which we have given them 
ih refpcft to the growth of grafs: they 
are not fuljeft to poach in winter, nor 
to crack or be burnt up in fummer. 

All low ground isfubje€l to overflow- 
ing, either ia a larger way by rivers, 
or in a fmaller by the water coming 
from the higher grounds in the winter 
rains; and both thefe wettings are of 
great benefit, if proper care be taken 
to carry off the redundant water; and 
to prevent the overflowing by rivers at 
improper times. 

The fineft part of the mould ib wafhed 
off by rains from ploughed lands that lie 
high, and a part of the manure with 
Jt, and carried down with the water to 
the low grrfs grounds at their bottom; 
this it is that renders them fo fruitful; 
and in fame manner land floods drown- 
ing meadows by river fides, have the 
fame effedt. The waters of thefe are 
thick and yellow, with the richelt part 
of the foil from the adjoining high 
grounds, and they leave ttiis upon thofe 
meadows when they lie upon them to 
fettle, and are then taken off. This ren 
ders the grafs on thefe grounds very 
plentiful, but as there generally remains 
too much of the mo.iffure behind, it is 
coarfe; there grow weeds, and ill kinds 
of grafs in them, which are not in the 
fweet paAurage of the up-lands. There 
is a great deal of difference in the value 
of thofe meadows which are liable to 
be overflowed by accident, and thofe 
which are capable of being overflowed 
at pleafure, but are out of that danger. 
In the firli, the water may come at a 
wrong time, and often does fo to the ut- 
ter lofs of the crop: but, in the other, 
it never can come but when it is brought, 
and yet 'tis at all thofe times, when 
prope^ ready at the hufbandman's 
command. 

Such meadows as lie flat on thebanks 
of great rivers, are of the ftrtl kind : 
thefe are fubjeft to accidental floodings, 
which may come at very wrong times, 
and are therefore very precarious and 
uncertain as to the produce. 

Thofe which lie near lefTer flreams, 
and a little higher than the level of 
their waters, are of the latter kind ; 
they may be overflowed when it will do 
them good by turning the flream of the 
water upon them ; and thefe are worth 
much more than other low grafs grounds 



for this reafon ; as the oihers, from 
their hazardous ficuation, arc worili 
lefs. 

To thofe two we may add a third 
kind of grafs grounds, whicii are of a 
kind of middle nature between tlicfe, 
and the iip-hind pafiures, Thtfe lall 
are fuch as lie above the level of the 
water con/ldcrably, yet not fo much 
but it may be brought over them by 
means of wheels or engines : thefe are 
expenfivfe, but the benefit very great. 
\Ve have not the fpirit of the Italians 
in this refpeft, nor indeed the nectflity : 
they raife water to a furprifing height 
for the overflowing their pafliires ; and 
they owe all their verdure to that arti- 
ficial management. 

The meadows that lie on tlie fides 
of large rivers, having all the fainege- 
neral foil, which is a rich dark mculd, 
they yield abundance of grafs ; and 
they owe their fertility to the overflow- 
ing of thofe rivers. 
When grafs grounds lie near the bor- 
ders of great rivers, but fo high as not 
to be flooded accidentally, it will always 
be wortli ihe farmer's wliile to have an 
engine for overflowing them a: fucii 
times as he fiiall think proper. 

We have Ihewn what is to be ex- 
pefledfrom each kind of grafs ground 
with refpedl to its foil, its fituation 
and its degree of moilture : we now 
come to confider thofe accidu'.ts to 
which all grafs grounds a.'e liable, and 
which reduce their value. Thefe are 
of three principal kinds, the firft being 
from weeds, the fecond from rubbi/h 
of any fort, left on the ground, and the 
third from ant-hills and mole-hills : 
thefe laft are the moft c^fficult to be 
removed, but when mowing is confi* 
dered, they are of all other annoyances 
the moft obnoxious. 

Weeds are of various kinds, and 
hurtful indifferent c'egrees. All plants, 
not of the grafi kind, may be called b/ 
this name wl;tn among grafs, but 
fome are beneficial : the white trefoil, 
which is a fort of clover ; and the red 
ttfcfoil, which is a wild clover, are botti 
fcrviceable, and (o are feveral other 
little plants that rife fpontaneoudy 
amorfg the grafs. 

The large weeds are moft trouble- 
fome, fuch as thirties, docks, and mal- 
lows, Thefe are grubbed up, or drawn 
with an inftrument made for t.'iat pur- 
pofe, called the tl.iitle hook. This 



M E A 



M E A 



pierces into the ground, and laying 
"liold of ihsmat fome depth, eafily pulls 
the whole -root up. 

As to accidental ru'obifh, th;s mull 
always be picked off. Some will be 
thrown on by carelelTnefs, and fome 
comes on among tiie manure; which, 
though rot fo eafily feen at firfl, is very 
plainly to be perceived when the rains 
have walhed the ficK part of the dung 
into the ground. 

Women or boys may be fent in to 
gather up this fort of lluff, which con- 
fills of bones, bits of brick, and bro- 
ken glafs ; a little trouble takes it off, 
and faves a great deal of difficulty to 
the mowers, ^'fi; Anthills. 

Dung is an univerfal manure for 
grafs ground, and the more mellow 
and rotten it is, the better: mod peo- 
ple content themfelves with it, and 
feek no farther; but grafs ground of 
of different foils as well as corn land, 
admits with advantage the fame diver- 
fity of manures. 

For grafs ground of the common 
kind, wliere the foil is a fat loaii<, or 
a loam with a very largequantity of mel- 
low earth among it, the befl of al: ma- 
nure is old dung and pond mud mixed 
together. This may be confidered as the 
general manure for thefe grounds ; and 
the time of laying it an is according to 
the particular circumftances or ufe the 
farmer makes of his land, from Sep- 
tember to February. 

The moft favourable time of all is 
in the middle of winter, tliat there 
may be frotl to dilTolve and b.'-eak to 
pieces the harder parts of the manure, 
and the rains may wafh tiie whck-into 
the ground .-i their leifure, while thera 
js no great power of fun to evaporate 
the virtue of it as it lies fpread on the 
ground. 

The way of laying on manure upon 
grafs ground, is to drop it in fmall 
heaps at due diflance; and fint em- 
ploying labourers to break and fpread 
it well by hand, the owner is after- 
wards to have it worked over with a 
bufh harrow. 

When a piece of giafs ground pro- 
duces mofs, and other bad things, but 
not in fuch a degree as to require the 
method of cutting up and burning, the 
beft method is to (Irew over It twice a 
year, namely, in Oflobei & the begin- 
ning of Febiuary, a mixture of two 
jkarts ccal-aflies and one part .wood- 



afhes, wetted with the emptying tiie 
pots of the family. 

On a piect. ot grafs ground, that is 
cold, but not very wet, let the huf- 
bandman fpread a good drefling of pi- 
geon's dung; xjt of the dung of fowls 
mixed with earth and coal-alhes. This 
is to be done at the latter end of Fe- 
bruary, and being the richeft of ail 
manures, it nuft be fpread with the 
greateft care and attention; it will thus 
come to the roots of the grafs, juft as 
they are about to make their fhoot, and 
will caufe twenty blades in many places 
to grow for one. 

There are good grafs grounds on th« 
fort of foil quite oppofite to what we 
have been naming, that is, on fuch a 
loam aj having a great proportion of 
fand, and little of the binding ingre- 
dients in it, is hot, ioofs, and crum- 
bly. In this cafe tiie manure muft be 
varied as the foil varies; and of all that 
can 'e recommended, nothing comes 
near the virtue of any one of thofc 
clayey mailiS we have defcribed under 
the head of manures; a drefling like 
this laid on early in winter, becomes 
quite broken and mouldered by the 
fpring, and will all wafn into the earth; 
the confequCRce is, th.-tt it gives the two 
qualities wanting lirmnefs and fatnefs. 
The quantity of hay may very well be 
doubled by fuch a drelTing, and the 
feeding; in proportion ; and although 
this be an expenfive manure for grafs 
l.inds in the fiifl laying on, yet it very 
well anfwers in t!ie end ; ior the ef- 
feft, inflead of three or four, which 
is tiie common duration of manures, 
will lail ten or twelve years. 

In fome of the up-land paAures in 
Derbyfhireaiid Stafford/lure, there is a 
kind of brown earth full of fragments 
of (lone. The proper manure for this 
is lime. 

There is nothingfo wrong in the huf- 
bandman's whole pradlice, as the de- 
ferring the laying his ground for hay 
too long : it may be convenient to him 
to feed upon it; but let him confider 
what will be theeffed of a hot diy fum- 
mer, and what will be the IJfc if he be 
difappointed of his crop. Spring is 
the feafon for the grafs to make its 
fhoot ; and if it be eaten over and over 
again at that time, and hot dry wea- 
ther follow, it is deprived of the bene- 
fit of rains, and never makes that firft 
Ihoot tolerably, nor comes lo any rea- 
fonabk 



M E.A 

fonable growth afterwards. For tliefe 
reafont let the farmer fuit his fevera 
occafions, (o as to be fure of laying 
down his i;round for the hay in time; 
and if he lofe fomethjng in tlie advan. 
tage of feeding, he may be perieftly 
alHired of making himfelf ten-fold re- 
turr; for it. 

As foon as the cattle are cfflet him 
fend in women or children to finilh 
the clearing of the ground, by picking 
up the hrok.-n boughs of trees that the 
winter wmdi may have thrown in upon 
the grafs, and every other kind of an- 
noyance : this done, let him fend in a 
labourer or more, according to the 
compafi of ground, and let thefe have 
orders to break and fpread all about 
the dung that may have failen from the 
cattle upon it; and alfo to break and 
icatter any frefh mole-hills. 

This being done, the expence of 
which is very little, and the conveni- 
ence and benefit very great, let him 
order the ground to be rolled carefully 
and thorou5hly. 

The rolling grafs grounds intended 
for mowing is of great conftquence, as 
it prepares the furface for the fcythe, 
and deftroys the laft accidents that can 
happen to it during the preparation for 
hay. 

In the winter months the furface of 
the ground will be rendered here and 
there unequal, by the treading of cattle, 
in fuch places as the wet has moll af- 
feOed, and where it has lodged moft : 
thefe 'make the growth of the grafs 
irregular, and therefore are an injury. 
During the firft approach of faring 
the worms will be at work, and will 
every aamp and mild night throw up 
abundance cf their carts ; thefe alfo are, 
like the other, nuifances, though not 
great ones, and they hinder the right 
^nd regular g.-owth of the grafs j if 
there be mcles, or if there be any ants 
|eft, they will aho be at work at the 
fame time; and this is a feafon at 
which all fhould be fet right ; and the 
condition of the ground is fuch that it 
will eaftly be fo. The roller will an- 
fwer the ^rpofe, for it will take more 
effedl at this time than at any other. 

The ground being thus carefully 
hid for hay, the farmer has no farther 
care but knowing when to cut it. This 
he muft carefully obferve, for there is 
a proper tim-; of ripencfs ; and all af- 
ter, as well a all before that, i* fo 
much !cfs. 



M E A 

There Is a time of the year when 
1 every plant flowers; and graft, like 
others, has its feafon. If wc ex- 
amine in other plants the courfe of na- 
ture, we fhall fee that, though their 
leaves fland pretty well during the 
flowering, they wither when they come 
to ripen the feed. The leaver of grafs 
go to the quantity of hay as well as the 
ftalks ; and are indeed the bert part : 
they are not therefore to be negleded 
fcr the fake of the other. The hay 
will not have its due quantity till the 
rtalks are full grown ; but after that 
time, the leaves will fall fo fait into a 
flate of decay, that there will be more 
loft by twenty times at the bottom, 
than there is gained at the top. The 
price of hay is very confiderable, but 
that depends upon its goodnefs ; and 
this upon two articles, the time of cut- 
ting, and the manner of making ; and 
upon the former little lefs than on the 
latter. 

The fine green colour of hay is veiy 
much valued. This is owing, in a 
great meafure, to the making ; but 
then it muft be in the grafs itfelf, 
otherwi.e all the care that can be ta- 
ken in drying it, is all in vain ; a pro- 
per method of turning will prefer\'e a 
colour, but it cannot give it : that 
muft be from nature. 

This fine colour depends, like the 
reft of the good qualities, on the time of 
mowing, or the degree of ripenefs of 
the grafs. When it is juft in flower, 
the leaves are fre(h ind green ; but 
when it is got to feed, they grow brown ; 
this is the firft rtep toward their decay, 
and this is the change of colour which 
no art can recover. 

While the grafs is but coming to 
perfeftion, it is too green ; when it 
has ftood too long, it becomes brown j 
and that fine pale green colour fo ef- 
teemed in hay, can never be obtained 
by any art afterwards. 

The fmeli of hay is another article 
of its value, and this, like the reft, 
muft be prtfcrved by care in the ma- 
king, but it muft be entirely owing to 
the time of cutting. 

Hay that has ftood too long, has the 
the appearance of fo much ftubble,and 
has no more fmtll; whereas at the 
time of the grafj fiowering, which is 
its juft ftate of pertedion, there is one 
of the pleafanteft flavours we know, 
from the cutting th.'-eugh of the ftalk, 

and 



M E A 



M E A 



and the evaporating of its juice in dry- 
!ng. The colour of ilie Italic^ fades as 
well ai that of the leaves, after the due 
fcafon is over. 

Let the farmer go into his grafs fields 
from time to time toward the begin- 
ning of June, if not prevented fooncr 
by the full ripencfs. Let him tjcimine 
tlie ftalks which will be now grown up 
in heiglit, and fee how their tops np- 
proach toward ripenef.i ; he will per- 
ceive from time to time the little ii.^ds 
fwell, and a: length there will appear 
a few white threads. Thefe, in fomc 
kinds of grafs, only fhew themfclvei 
on the furface of tlie buttons ; and, in 
others, hang from them a fifth part of 
an inch. This is the flower of the 
grafs, and when it appears, the hay- 
time is near. 

He m\)ft not judg; froni one or two 
plants in a hundred, but fee when tl;e 
whole field thus gets into bloom ; and 
then he mu(l he critlc.il in his exami- 
nation. Tiie fuller and frelher it is at 
the top, while the bottom remains per- 
feilly found and good, the better ; 
therefore that is to be examined for the 
final marking of the time. Let the far- 
mer open the grafs with his hands in 
feveral places down to the ground, and 
obferve carefully how tlie lower part 
looks : as tliefe flowery parts, or the 
top, ripen, the bottom will grow brown. 
A'fter this tlie top will get nothing, 
and the bottom will lofe a great deal, 
fo this is the time for tlie mowing. 

The mowers are to be fcnt in, and 
the ground having been thus prepared 
and levelled for them, tliey have no 
CNCufe if they do not cut it clofe. 
Thefe are a fort of people, as every one 
knows who has had any concern with 
them, who are very apt to (light over 
their work, and ready to feize upon 
any pretence for doing fo: they have 
ho confideration that their carelelfnefs 
is the lofb tc the farmer, perhaps of the 
ttnth part of iiis crop ; but let him 
take care of himfelf. As he has accor- 
ding to thfife dire£lions prepared the 
ground for them, let IiTm follow tliem 
and frequently put them in mind of it, 
they will ilius be brou;;ht to do much 
better than they ever will when left to 
thsmfelves ; and the addition to the 
quantity of the hay will very well pay 
the farmer for his care and attendance. 

The bufinefs of hay-makjng is gene- 
fil\j done nitich better th.in that of 



mowing ; and If any omlfTion be made 
in it, it is ealily feen, &c there is time to 
reftify it ; but in the mowing, the mif- 
chief is fcarce to be fcen, unlefs the 
fcytlie be followed; and when it is once 
done, there is no mending of it. The 
grafs being down, it is to be carefully 
dri^d; and in this there is fo much 
dift":rence between tlie praftice of the 
farmers in thefe parts of the kingdom 
wliere hufbandry is moft improved, 
and the others, that it fhould be fet in 
the flrongeft light, ro render thofe im- 
provements yniverfal. 

The grafs being down, it is to be 
turned 4nd dried, and then it is hay. 
This is the whole procefs in a few 
words, but there mull go more to the 
well underilanding of it. 

The great care in this point, is to 
preferve the colour. The grafs being 
cut in the condition we have named, 
will be of a fine green, and this is to 
be preferved ; for the farmer may be 
alTured, that a lofs of colour is always 
attended with a lofs of talle, and lofs 
of fmell ; and with a certain lofs in 
the ariicle of price. 

To preferve the colour of the grafs, 
and give it the full fweetnefs when it 
is mowed, it Ihould be let to lie in the . — 
fwarth two days and a half. At the 
end of this time it is to be fpread out ; ''//^j/i 
this Is properly what is called tedding ■^— — 
the hay; and thus it is to lie expofed 
to the fun during the remainder of the 
day. Then it is to be made upln lit- 
tle cocks, which are called grafs cocks, 
at evening, and fo left for the night. 
The next morning, as foon as the dew 
is off t!ie ground, thefe grafs cscks ar« 
to be fpread, and thus the fide of the 
grafs that had lain undermofl, will get 
dried. In this condition it lies all that 
day. Toward evening, it is to be 
cocked up Into the fame little grafs 
cocks as before. 

This is a reafonable, and an excellent 
praftice,for it at the fame time gives the 
hay all the advantage of the air and 
fun during the day, and defends it 
from the dews of the night, which can 
do little harm when it is gathered up 
in thefe heaps; though while it lay 
fpread upon the ground, they woujd 
liave grejtly interfered with the drying. 
Sometimes when this caution of cock- 
ing up at evening has been omitted, 
the wliole quantity which was very 
ci.vavd In drying the day before, has 
be»n 



M E A 



M E A 



been rendered damp and Toft, and 
brought into a worfe condition than at 
firft ; for the water of the dew is more 
hurtful to its colour than the natural 
juices of the grafs. In this condition 
the fmcli and colour have been greatly 
impaired, and there has been after- 
wards no way of recovering them. Tiiis 
is not fo bad as the pradlice of the re- 
mote farmers, v/hofe hay is always 
brown, and mow-buint ; but it is very 
much inferior to the true and careful 
method, and never fails to reduce the 
price. 

In the proper method of hay-making 
after the tedding, and grafs cocking, 
fo far as we have named, the hray is to 
be fpread again, and drawn up into a 
kind of lengths, which they call wind- 
rows. This is a very good condition 
for drying, and what is a great advan- 
tage alfo, thefe wind-rows are eafily 
thrown up into cocks, for they lie con- 
veniently for that purpofe: thus when 
the weather is fine, the hay has the full 
advantage of it, as it lies fpread out 
in thefe rows; and if rain come on, 
the hay-makers can tofs it into cocks 
in a few minutes, in which condition 
it will get very little damage, and is 
ready to be fpread again to take the 
advantage of the next fair blafl. 

From thefe wind-rows the hay is to 
be thrown into large cocks, and in 
thefe to ftand through the night, and 
for fome time afterwards ; but then it 
is not, though pretty well made, to be 
carried home direfHy from the field in 
this condition. The outfide of one 
of thefe large cocks will be very dry, 
while there is moiflure in the middle, 
and the farmer's bufnefs is to have his 
hay all alike ; not only fome of the 
juices of the grafs will remain in that 
which has been in the innermoft part 
of the cock, but it will fweat a little 
with lying together: therefore tlicfe 
cocks muft be thrown to pieces, and 
the whole quantity of the hay' once 
more fpread upon the ground. If good 
weather follow, it will thus dry in a 
very compleat and perfed manner : 
three iiours wind and fun going farther 
under thefe circumftances than a day 
at another time. 

If the weather co<ntinue favourable, 
the bufinefs of hay-making is tlius 
happily finirtied ; but if rain come, 
the farmer is not t(i turn the hay that 
ba.; catched the wet 3i :: !av fc^read, 

Vot.lt. 



but to let It dry as it lies, which, thefb 
fhowers being ftldom lafting, it will 
quickly do. On the contrary, if the 
over-care of the hay-makers fhould 
turn the grafs thus nearly dried, and 
then wetted by accidtnt, to the ground, 
the damp of tiie eartii would greatly 
injure it. On the other hand, as the 
wet is flight, and the fun and air have 
great power; the top will prefently 
dry again lying as it is. 

After this fpreading from the cocks, 
the hay may be thrown together for 
convenience of loading, and is in per- 
feft good condition to carry in. ,^ja.prt . /// ; c 

Meadow /?:<(:, \T'hallEirum.'\ There 
are feveral fpecics of this plant, ail 
hardy perennials, eafily propagated by 
parting the roots in autumn, and fow- 
ing the feed in the fpring. 

Meadow Saffrots, [Colckicun:,'] There 
are three fpecies, the common autum- 
nal, the mountain Spanifh, and the va- 
riegated eaflern Meadow Saffron, The 
firii grows wild with a purple flower 
in many rich meadows. They are all 
hardy, and are propagated by ofF-fets 
of the bulbsj taking them up in June 
when their flowers decay, and putting 
them into the ground again in Auguft. 

IVIe.^dov,' Siveet, [Uiir.aria.] This 
herb is frequent in moifl meadows, and 
about the fides of rivers : it fiowers in 
the beginning of June, and continues 
in beauty a confiderable time. The 
flowers have a very pleafant flavour, 
which water extradlslrom them by in- 
fufion, and elevates in diflillation. 

MzADow Trefeii. SeeCLOvER. 

ME ALLY TREE. Wayfaring tree. 

MEAK, A hook to cut up 
peafe, &c. 

MEASLES, This is a commori 
diforder among hogs, and fliews itfelf 
in a rednefs of the eyes, and foulnefs 
of the Ikin, and in their negleding their 
food. 

The be/t remedy Is this. Keep the 
hog falling the whole afternoon and 
night. Then fet before him a good 
mefs of viduals ; not large in quantity, 
but hot and well prepared, and put 
into it forty grains of fait of hanfhoni 
and two ounces of bole armoniac It 
will all go down very well alter this 
fall; and will make a good beginnine; 
of a cure. The fame method is to be 
followed every day till he is perfedlly 
recovered, and for a few days .'after, 
for fear of returns, 

G MECHOAC.^N. 



M E L 



MEL 



MECHOACAN, [Mtchaeanna.'] 
Tlie root of an American convolvu- 
lus not very unlike j.ila|>, but inferior 
to it in virtue, and the quantity of re- 
fin it yields. 

MEDIC. Lucern, 

MEDEOLA. Stt African Aspara- 
cus. 

MEDLAl?, [Mefpiltti.'] A fpecies 
of fruit-trees, which may be raifed by 
grafting or budding them upon the 
cotttmon white-thorn. This is tlie ufu- 
al way of propagating the American 
forts, which are of the hawthorn kind j 
hut the beft way to raife the other forts 
Is from their feeds. All medlars will 
take when they are grafted or budded 
upon each other. Ihey will alfo take 
upon (locks of pears, or of quinces, 
and both of thefe will take upon the 
medlar; fo that there is a great affinity 
between them. All the American forts 
t-vili grow twenty feet high,if thfty are 
not ftinted by grafting. 

Medlars may alfo be ralfed from 
their feeds, which, if put into the 
ground in autumn, foon after they are 
ripe, will come up the following fpring: 
but if they are not fct till the next year, 
they will not fhoot till the year after. 

MELANCHOLY THISTLE, {Or- 
fium.'] This plant is preferved in the 
gardens for variety, and is propagated 
by fowing the feeds in the fpring. 

MELILOT, [Md-.'.otus.] This grows 
wild in hedge^mong corn; and has 
likewife, for medicinal ufes, being cul- 
tivated in gardens. The green herb 
has no remarkable fmell ; when dry, 
a pretty ftrong one : the taftc is rough- 
ilh, bitter, and if long chewed, nau- 
fcous. A decoftion of this herb has 
been recommended in inflammations 
of the abdomen ; and a decoftion of 
the flowers in the fluor albus. But 
modern praftict rarefy employs it any 
otherwife than in emollient and carmi- 
native clyftcrs, and in fomentations, 
cataplafms, and the like ; and in thefe 
not often. It formerly gave name to 
one of the officinal plafters, Which re- 
ceived from the melilot a green colour, 
tut no particular virtue. 

MELON, [Cucumh.'] Of the melon, 
there is but one real fpecies of tfie 
plant, but of the fruit there are innu- 
merable varieties, with refpeft to figure, 
flze, colour of the rind, and fle(h or 
pul{). 

This fruit> in different yarieties, is 



of Various fizcs, from about four to ten 
or twelve inches in length and diame- 
ter, in moft forts ripening externally 
to a yellowifh colour, and fome ripen 
green, and others white, but have 
moftly a reddifti fiefti or pulp, except 
one variety, which is green both in 
rind and pulp, as hereafter defcribed. 

The varieties of mofl eftimation at 
prefent \t\ the Englifh gardens are, 

Cmnm'.n Mu(k-Melein. A large, ob- 
long-oval, longitudinally-ribbed, and 
netted-wrough: Melon, having a red- 
di(h tolerably rich flavoured flefli ; and 
the plants being of the hardier kind, 
generally fet a plentiful crop of fruit. 
This is alfo one of the beft forts of 
melon for mangoes, for which purpofe 
the London gardeners cultivate prin- 
cipally this variety for the fupply of 
markets. 

Romano- Mehn. A roundiHi, mode- 
rate-fized, ribbed, and netted melon, 
fomewhat comprefTed at both ends, 
and with a reddilh firm flefh of a fine 
rich flavour, the plants good bearers, 
each often fetting from about five or 
fix to eight or ten fruit, and is one of 
the beft forts, both for an early and 
general crop. 

Cantakupe, or Armenian Tf^arted Meln, 
Alarge, roundilh, deeply-ribbed melon, 
a little comprefTed at both ends, and 
the furface full of warted protuberances, 
and with a reddifti firm flefti of a mc/i 
delicious rich flavour, of which there 
arc fome varieties. Largeblack carbun- 
cled or black rock cantaleupe melon, 
being of a blackifh green colour, ha- 
ving the furface covered with high, 
rugged, faxtile protuberance*. Large 
white carbuncled cantaleupe melon. 
Orange cantaleupe melon. Thefe va- 
rieties are the flneft of the melon kind, 
with refpeifl to the richnefi of flavour 
of the fruit, and which by the melon- 
eaters are preferred to all the other 
forts : but the plants being rather more 
tender, do not fet fruit fo freely, nor 
in fuch plenty, they often not having 
more than from one to two or thre« 
fruit on a plant, and in a three-light 
frame fometimes not more than five 
or fijc fruit. 

This variety derives the term Can- 
taleupe melon, from Cantaleupe ne.ir 
Roma, the place where it was firfl 
cultivated in Europe, brought thence 
from Armenia. 

Small Portugal Mt/cn, A fmallifh 
ro .1 c i 



M E JL 



MEL 



round meloo, Itaving a rcddifh flefh of 
a fine muiky flavour, and the plants are 
plentiful bearejs, each often fetcing 
from eight or ten to twenty fruit, which, 
however, is more by half than fiiould 
be left to come to perfection. 

Gritn jiilhtd MtUtt, An oval, modc- 
ratclizcd melon, having an even, 
fmooth, green rind, and the flefh or 
pulp ripening to a preenifli colour, 
which is highly flavoured. 

Large Grten-rindid flUlon. A large 
roundilh-ovai, green, fmootli-rindcd 
melon, having a reddilh flefh. 

Black Gallvway Melon. A roundifh 
oval, middle. fized, (lightly-ribbed, 
dark-green, fmooth melon, having a 
reddifli, rich flavoured flelh, and the 
plants excellent bearers, but the fort 
not at pcefent very plentiful in England. 
It was brought from Portugal many 
years fince by a Lord Galloway. 

Net did or iyr ought Melon. An oval, 
middle-fized, Ccarcely ribbed melon, 
having the furface clofely wrought with 
raifed net-work, and hath a reddifh 
fleih. 

IVhite Span'ijh Melon. An oval, fmall- 
ifh, white, fmooth-rinded melon, ha- 
ving a reddifh pulp. 

Zatta Melon. A very fmall, roundifti, 
wa'fty-rinded Melon. 

Obferve, that although all the above 
kinds be only varieties of the fame fpe- 
cies, yet, by care in cultivating them 
feparatc, they may be continued all to- 
lerably permanent. 

There are many other intermediate 
varieties of lefs note, but a few of 
known good qualities is better than 
many dilfertnt forts, fome of which 
probably not much better than gourds ; 
and of the varieties here fpecifled, the 
Romana and Cantaleufe kinds are confi- 
derably the mofl worthy of attention, 
as thefe two forts ripen to a much 
higher degree of perfeflion. 

It is an exotic from the hot parts of 
the world, fuppofed principally of 
Perfia, from which country, however, 
it was firft introduced into the differ- 
ent parts of Europe ; and confeqiiently 
its culture in every part of Britain can 
be tffe&td only by artificial heat, and 
conflant Ihelcer of glafs, &c. till Julv 
as at an early feafon ihey require a te. 
perature of heat almoll equal to that 
of our pine-aj>[>le (toves. 

The principal feafcn of ripe melons 
in £ngland, is June, July, and Au^ultj 



they, however, by ditferent fowingr 
and plantings, may be obtained fron» 
May till O<f>ober; but they are always 
in the greateA pcrfedion in the times 
before mentioned. 

The flowers of the melon arc confe- 
quently mcntaciaus, like the cucumber, 
as being of the fame genus and clafs, 
male and female apart on the fame 
plant, the males Handing immediately 
on the fiimmit of its foot-rtalk, with- 
out any appearance of germen or frujt 
under it, and the females difcover the 
rcund germen or embrio fruit und^r 
its bafe, when not bigger than a pea ; 
obferving, that the male blolToros 
are by nature designed for fertili- 
zing the female fJowcr, as obferved of 
the cucumber, fo mull not be pulled 
off until a lull crop of fruit is fet. 

With regard to the propagation of 
the melon, the plants being annual, 
are raifed every year from feed, fowcd 
at different timesin fpring, in hot-beds 
of dung or tanner's baik, under frames 
and glafTes, &c. they requiring conti- 
nual aid of artificial heat and fhelter, 
from the time of fowing until June or 
July, for they will at no time fucceed 
in the natural ground, at leal\ rarely 
perfe^ fruit; and each crops require 
two different hot-beds, that is, to be 
fowed in one, and the plants nurfed 
therein till a month or lix weeks old, 
that thay begins to fhoot runners, then 
tranfplanted into a fecond and iinal 
hot-bed, to remain to fruit. 

The feafon for fowing is any time 
from the beginning of January, until 
the middle of April, according to the 
conveniencies there may be for their 
culture, and time the fruit is required 
in perfeftion; for the early crops, to be 
raifed in January, February, and be- 
ginning of March, require very fub- 
flantial hot-beds, under conftant fhel- 
ter of garden frames and lights, until 
July ; but the later crops, fown in the 
middle of March, and in April, fuc- 
ceed with more moderate hot-beds, 
and may be ridged out in April and 
May under hand or bell-glaffes, or oiled 
paper frames, and the plants will fee 
and ripen their fruit under thefe fhel- 
ters ; obferving, that the early foivings 
in January fometimes produce ripe 
fruit in May, but come into full bear, 
ing in June; and thofe raifed in Fe- 
bruary, and early in March, ripen fruit 
in June, July, and Auguftj and fow. 



MEL 



MEL 



ings performed any time from about 
the middle of March till that of April, 
furnifh ripe fruit principally in Augult 
and September, and fometimes in 
Oftober, 

Obferve, therefore, that, like the 
.cucumbers, crops of melons rnay be 
raifed in three difl'ercnt ways ; under 
frames and lights, under hand or bell- 
glafTes, and under oiled paper; each 
of which will be exhibited under afe- 
parate head. 

'The materials principally necefTary 
in their culture are. 

Frames and glafs lights for early, 
and hand-glafles, &:c. and oiled paper 
lights, for late crops ; and lor each 
crop good mats for coveiing on nights j 
all as obferved for the cucumbers. 

Horfe Aable dung, a plentiful fup- 
ply both for making the hot-beds, and 
for occafional linings, muft be in 
quality, quantity, and preparation, as 
hinted for cucumbers, and in the ar- 
ticle hot-beds. 

But fometimes in the melon culture 
bark hot-beds are employed, or of 
bark and dung together, which, where 
- tanncr's-bark can be eafily procured, 
on account of its regular and durable 
-heat, is a very proper material for hot- 
beds in the culture of melons, either 
ufed alone, or mixed with hot dung. 

• -- As to mould, tlie melon, like thecu- 
■icumber, will profper in any rich plia- 
iible kitchen-garden earth, prepared 

fome months in a heap; but the fa- 
■ vburite and rnoft profperous foil for 
;.the melon is a fine mellow loam, ta- 

• ken from the furface of a padure field 
iior common, enriching it with about 
i- one-third of rotten neat's dung, or 

thorough rotten dung of old hot- 
beds, preparing the whole in a heap, 
and managed as direded under the ar- 
ticle Comports ; obfcrving, that when 
it is to be ufed, not tofiftor fcreen any, 
only break it well to pieces with the 
fpade. 

The fituation, or place for making 
the hot- beds, (hould be dry, warm, 
full to the fun, and fheltercd, as for 
cucumbers; likewife obferve, not to 
dig any trench for the early hot- beds, 
but make them entirely on the furface 
of the gound, for the reafons there 
afligned. 

It is generally advifed to cultivate 
melons as fir as poflTible dirtant from 
cucumbers, lefl, by an intcrcom(nu,ni- 



cation of their fanna, it ibould caui'e 
a degeneracy; there is apparently fomc 
reafon in this : however, when wecon- 
fider that the two plants arc real dif- 
ferent fpecies, J believe there is no 
great danger to be apprehended, as in 
the cafe of v.irieiies. 

The feed, and its kind, being mate- 
rial articles, you Hiould be particularly 
careful to procure fuch only as have 
been faved from the very nnei't fruit of 
the refpedUve approved variaies ; this, 
if poriible, (hould be two or three 
years old, for the reafons obferved cf 
the cucumber feed; but when you are 
obliged to ufe new feed, it is proper 
either to hang them in a pap>cr, or phial, 
in a dry room near the fire, all winter, 
or in a phial, expofed in adrywindowr 
to the fun; or may carry them in your 
pockets three or four weeks, either of 
which expedients will dry up mucli 
of the watery parts, whereby t'le 
plants will belefs luxuiiant and more 
fruitful. We receive melon feeds annu- 
ally from France, Spain, Italy, and 
other hot countries; but wewould cau- 
tion againrt depending on thefe for a 
principal crop, for not being enured to 
this climate, the plants from fuch 
would be more tender and delicate in 
their culture, lefs fruitful, and tne 
fruit often of much lefs value, than 
thofeof feeds faved at home; therefore, 
only a plant or two of the foreign feeds 
fhould be raifed at firfV, jull to prive 
the quality of the fruit. 

From the time of fowing the feed to 
the maturity of the fruit, it it com- 
monly near four months, and fome- 
times longer; for the plants feldom 
fliew fruit till they have fbot feveral 
runners, which, from the firft appear- 
ance of the plants, will be at leaft fix 
or eight weeks in effeding ; from the 
appearance of the fruit till it is fairly 
fet, a week or fortnight ; and from its 
fetting till fully ripe will be about forty 
days. 

The proper quantity cf hot-bed in 
the culture of melons for private ufe 
is, that far the fmalleft family there 
cannot be leis than one three-light 
frame for the early, and three hand or 
bell glafTes, or three holes under oiled 
paper, for the late or fucceflion crops, 
allowing two plants to each light of 
the frame, the fame to each hand-glafs, 
or hole under the paper lights; and 
fuppofing each plant, o.^e with another, 

to 



MEL 



MEL 



te produce about three froit, fo that In 
a three-light frame, and in three holts 
under ha id-glarres,or oiled paper Ihel- 
ters, there will be but about <rom 
thirty tj torty melons; though of the 
fmalier forts of melon there will fome- 
;;mes be from fix to ten, or twelve, or 
;Tiore, on a plant ; but fix or ei^ht is 
as many as the plants are able to brint; 
to penedtion : however, for the fupply 
of ■ a middi'iog family, two tliiee- 
iight frames, and, at leart, fix hand or 
beli-glaircs, Sec. will be necelfary to 
furniih a tolerable fupply during the 
feafon; and for a large family, four 
three-light frames, at leaft, or twelve 
Jiglits, will be requifite, and double 
that number of hand-glaiTes, or holes 
of plants under paper frames. 

We now proceed to the different 
methods of culture; and firft, of their 
early culture in frames, obferve as 
follows. 

The time of year to begin tlie cul- 
ture of melons in frames, is January, 
February, and beginning of iClarch ; 
but when defigned to have melons as 
early as pofTibie, we commonly begin 
in January, though the beginning of 
February is a more fuccefsluJ time of 
fowing to have a good crop ; if, how- 
ever, you begin early in January,, it is 
proper to fow alfo twice in February 
and March for fucceflion crops ; like- 
wife to be ready in cafe of accidents 
to the early plants, or that they fhould 
not thrive, as is often the cafe at a 
very early feafon. 

The feed may be fovi'ed, and the 
plants raifed, either in a hot-bed of 
early cucumbers now at work, in tlie 
fame manner in every refpedt as for 
ihem direfted ; or, where none is, 
make a hot-bed for a one-light frame 
on purpofe, obfer\'ing exatfily the fame 
rules with refpeil to dimenfions, ma- 
king, framing, and earthing the bed, 
fowing the feed, and other manage- 
ment, as dirtdted for the early cucum- 
bers ; likewife, when the plants have 
been come up three days, that their 
cotyledons area little expanded, tranf- 
plant or pricli them into fmall pots 
tor the. convenience of removal, as 
there direfied ; buj of thefe, i e. me- 
lons, put only twoJ;l.ints in each pot, 
plunging them in the bed, and ma- 
i.-.'ie them as above till tit to ridge 
o'.it; for the cucumbers and melons, 
Dtinr nearly,£l equal tempcratu!-c, the 



fame degree of heat, air, fee. fuft* 
both in this part ol their culture ; it 
wculd therelore be fuperfluous to 
trcu'>le the reader with a repetition, 
fince the particulars are fully exhibited 
under cucumbers. 

In this nurfery-bed they are to be 
continued a nnonth or fix weeks, till 
their firil runners bepin to advance; 
obfcrvirg, as thsirfhanksri e in height, 
to earth them up by degrees with fine 
mould, till the pots are full, for this 
will greatly enccurs?e them, and they 
will come faft into tne rough leaf, and 
begin to form joints and fhoot runners, 
Obferve, when their two or three 
firlt rough leaves are . fully expanded, 
and another forming in the centre, ap- 
pearing like a bud, which part being 
alfo the end of an advancing fhnot, it 
ftiould juft at this period of its 
growth be flopped, i e. cut or pinched 
oil clofe to the fecond or third leaf, as 
advifed for the cucumbers, to procure 
lateral (hoots, called runners ;. for it is 
fronx thefe, or others ifl"uing from them, 
that we are to exped the fruit; and 
%vhen thefe firlt runners appear, the 
plants are ready for ridging out into 
the fruiting hot-bed. 

The plants from the tima of fowinj, 
till arrived at the above fize for ridg- 
ingrout, take about five or fix weeks 
growth. 

The ridging-out, or fruiting hot-bed, 
fhould be prepared in due time to te- 
ceivc the plants when arrived to the 
proper age and fize above-mentioned j 
obferving, to prepare frefh hot dung a 
week or two in a heap, as for the cu- 
cumbers, fufficient for one or more 
three-light frames; let the bed be made 
entirely on the furface, for the oppor- 
tunity of lining, carrying it up three 
feet and half, or four feet high, rai- 
fmg the back or north fide three or four 
inches higher; diieftly put on the 
frame and lights, to defend the bed 
from chilling rain?, and to draw up 
the heat, tilting the glafTes behind for 
the fleam to pafs away ;and in a wee};, 
or ten or fifteen days, according to 
the fubftance of the bed, its firlt great 
heat vvill abate; then prepare to mould 
it, and put in the plants, obferving the 
neceffary precautions, as for the cu- 
cumber beds. 

The bed beirg ready, as above, thert 

vi.'heel in your prt-pared mould, and lay 

jult under the middle of each Tight 

about 



MEL 



MEL 



•heut a bufhel of it in a heap, for the 
immediate reception of the plants, for- 
ming each heap into a fort of conical 
hillock about fittei^ inches high ; and 
tiie thus having the hills of earth this 
height, is proper both that the plants 
may he near the glaflss, which is of 
importance to early work, and to allow 
them a goort depth of earth ; for they 
Ihould generally have a greater depth 
of mould than cucumbers, the plants 
being more impatient ot moirture by 
■watering, which is alfo prejudicial to 
the profperlty and flavour ot the fruit; 
that, therefore, by allowing a good 
depth of earth, they will ftiift much 
longer without the aid of water : when 
the hillocks are thus formed, direftly 
earth the other parts of the bed within 
the frame three inches thick, juft to 
keep down t!ie fteam rifing immedi- 
ately from the dung ; then rtiut down 
the lights, and when the earth is warm 
put in the plants. 

In a day or two the heat of the 
dung will havefufficiently warmed the 
fcijls of earth ; then bring the plants in 
their pots 4 being two in each, plant 
one pot of plants, with the balls of 
earth about their roots, in the middle 
of each hiU,as direfted for the cucimi- 
ters; and if the mould fhould appear 
dry, give a little water towards the out- 
fde, being careful not to wet the plants 
much 3t this time; and as foon as 
planted fhut down the lights, to draw 
up the i»eat about the roots of the 
plants, but tilt them again in due time, 
to pafj off the fleam. 

The plants being now ridged out 
into the fruiting hot-bcri, obferve, that 
as the glaiTes are to be continued con- 
flantly on the frames till July, your 
daily care is to admit frefli air at ail 
opportunities in calm weather, by tilt- 
ing the lights behind from about half 
an irch to two, three, or four high, 
according to tlie temperature of the 
beat and fleam of the bed, and that of 
the outward air, which mull be alio 
obiervcd occafionally on nights at firft 
ridging-out, if there is a great fleam, 
for tl'.is muft net be pent up, nor ftag- 
nated for want of air; cover tiie 
giaiTes alto every night with mats, one 
or two thick, as fhall feem neceli'ary, 
but never let them hang down all over 
the Jides of the frame and bed, as of- 
ten done, which would draw up a vi- 
olent ileam, and exclude the air too 



much from the plants, and draw them 
up weak and of a yellow colour; give 
water alfo occafionally when the earth 
appears dry : obferving, that in tlie 
performance of all of the above works 
in this bed, to follow ftridtJy the fame 
rules as exhibited in the ridging-out 
bed of early cucumbers; but to keep 
in mind, that melons, being rather im- 
patient of moiAure, mufl have it more 
feidom, and lefs in proportion, than 
for cucumbers, cfpccially near the 
main flem and principal roots ; for by 
much moillure thefe parts are apt to 
canker and rot, fo (hould be watered 
moiUy at fome dillance from thefe prin- 
cipal parts, and never to wet the vine 
much at an early feafon ; but when 
there is not lefs than twelve or fifteen 
inches depth of earth on the beds, they 
will not need water oftner than once 
a fortnight ; and fometimes, when the 
earth is of a loamy nature and depth 
as above, and prefTed down clofc, that 
it may tlie better retain its natural 
moirtnefs. the plants, after two or three 
waterings, till they have firmly eila- 
blifhed their roots, will often fuccced 
without, or, at leaft, with very little 
more water; and in which cafe they 
generally fet their fruit freely, and it 
I ipens to a rich and high flavour; for 
reduncancy of moillure retards thefet- 
ting of the fruit; and although, after 
it is fairly fet, occafional waterinft 
will encreafe its magnitude, yet much 
of it greatly debafes its flavour and 
talle; but on the other hand obferve, 
that where the earth of the beds is a 
light texture, or of but a moderate 
depth, the plants will all along require 
occafional waterings, efpecially in 
warm funny weather; let i: however 
be remembered, that when the plants 
exhibit tlseir lirll ihew of young fruit, 
no water, or as little as poffible, fhould 
be given, until the fruit is fet as big as 
walnuts, when, agreeable to the na- 
ture and proportion of the earth, and 
other rules as above mentioned, and as 
hereafter hinted, ufe your difcreticn 
accordingly in wartring. 

Examine w. ith care for the finl week 
after ridging out, that the earth of the 
hills and roots of the plants do not re- 
ceive too much heat from the violence 
of the bed ; and if there is danger, re- 
move fome of the earth around the 
lower part of each hill; ar.d if any is 
burned at bottom'., add diie£ily fome 

ireib 



Jil E L 



MEL 



freih in Its Acad, and in a few d.iyS or 
a week the burning quality will fubfidc ; 
then place the removed mould again 
about the hillocks. 

After danger of burning is part, che- 
rifli the heat as much as poinble,by lay- 
ing long dry litter around tiie lides of 
the bed, to defend it from chilling wet 
•nd cold piercing winds. 

When the heat begins to decline 
confiderably, be fure to revive it as foon 
as poHible, by adding a fubf^antial li- 
ning of hot dung, to the fides of the 
bed at different times, ufing the fame 
precaution of earthing the top, &c. to 
prevent the Iteam of the linings enter- 
ing under tlie bottom, or at any part 
of the frame ; for the rancid Iteam 
coming direftly from the dung would 
deftroy the plants. 

When the fibres of the plants begin 
to advance through the hills of earth, 
let fome frefh mould be layed in the 
frame at diiferent times to warm, and 
by degrees add each parcel around the 
hills, till the whole bed is gradually 
molded nearly as high as the top of 
Ihem ; but rather let the top of each 
hill be about an inch higher, that the 
main rtem and principal roots may be 
preferved moderately dry, otherwife, 
being watered, would foak to thefe 
principal pans, andcaufe them to rot, 
as being very impatient of copious 
molfture from watering, &c. therefore, 
according as the mould in occafionally 
added, obferve the afore-mentioned 
precaution : alfo to prefs it downclofe, 
that by lying compad it may retain a 
riue moifture in itfelf the longer, (o as 
the plants will require to be but fcldom 
watered. 

As the runners of the plants advance, 
difpofe them with regularity, and when 
they are three joints long, if no young 
fruit appears, it is proper to perform a 
fecond ftopping, by taking off the end 
of the extreme joint, to promote a 
more fpeedy fupply of other lateral 
runners, which, together with others 
naturally ariling from them, will fuc- 
ficiently fpread the bed with vine; and 
it is from thefe lateral Ihoots we may 
generally expeft foon to fee plenty of 
yuung trui:. 

At the nrrt training the vite?, as 
above, if fome dry and clean re'^ds are 
thinly fpread upon the furface of the 
b^'d for the vinei to run upon, ic will 
p'eforv^ iil r!-" T'irr-r, a;,d young 



fruit from the damp of the earth, »t 
well as prevent the earth and upper fl« 
bres of the roots from being dried too 
faft by the fun ; fome, for the above 
purpofes, cover the bed all over ciofely 
with plane tiles; but this I fhould 
think rather excludes the neceflary be- 
nefit of the fun and air, too much 
from the earth and roots of the plants. 
When the young fruit begins to ap- 
pear, it is of much importance to fup- 
port a due temperature of heat in the 
beds, hy occafional linings, &c. do not 
omit this, becaufe the whole fuccefs of 
having the plants fet, a regular and a 
plentiful crop of fruit depends on a 
good bottom heat, both to warm the 
earth futficiently about the fibres, as 
well as the internal air of the frame j 
for thefe fruit being fo extremely ten- 
der whilrt young, that without a pro- 
per heat they fet very fparing and ftrag- 
glingly, generally affuming a flow, 
Itunted, and irregular habit of growth j 
maintain, therefore, the necefTary de- 
gree of heat, and the fruit will fee 
freely, and fwell faft in magnitude. 

At this period alfo of the firfl ap- 
pearance of the fruit, 1 Ihould advife 
to forbear watering, if pofljble, till the 
fruit is fet as large as good walnuts, as 
we above obferved ; obferving, that if 
the plants are growing in a tolerable 
depth of foil of a loamy nature, they 
will Ihift very well without any during 
that period, or longer, unlefs the earth 
fhould be very dry indeed, and then 
let them have it but fparingly; for if 
any confiderable portion of water is 
given when the fruit is fetting, the vine 
will acquire a glut of fap, and conti- 
nue fhooting with great luxuriancy, 
which is contrary to the nature of thefe 
young fruit, as,beingof fuch a delicate 
temperature in their infant ftate, and 
even during their minor growth, that 
the exuberant quantity of fap in the 
branches caufes them to turn yellow, 
apd drop off foon after they have blcf- 
Tomed, and fometimes after they have 
fet as large as an egg, and more efpcci- 
ally if there is not a due degree of 
warmth in the beds. 
According as the young fruit appears, 
you will obfervc it accompanied by 
abundance of male blofToms ; thefe 
muft not he picked off, as too often 
p^A(\ited,lheiTpul'viiantnerarum,o^\>n^^'- 
der of their anthera, being abfolutely 
necciTH-y for fecundating the female 
flowers. 



MEL 



MEL 



dowers, and fertilizing the young fruit; 
it is therefore ot importance not only 
to retain tiicfc flowers, but alfo, to af- 
fift nature, it is proper, in tlie early 
crops, to perform tlie operation of fet- 
ting, i. e. of applying tiieir antlierte 
totlie (ligrtiata of tlie temale blofloms, 
ufing for this purpofe fuch maleHovv- 
ers whofe anthera; are duly ripened, 
and well furnifhed with farina, which 
you may readily know by previoufly 
applying the antherse gently to the 
thumbnail, to which feme of the^s/- 
len, if ripened, will adiiere; fo ufin5 
one or two males to each female Mof- 
fom, and it will be found to alTilt 
greatly in fetting the early fruit. 

Air, at this time of bloffoming, will 
alfo be particularly beneficial in p;o- 
moting the free letting; of the fruity 
do not omit therefore to admit it every 
mild day, in manner before mentioned. 
After fetting the fruit, obferve, ihit 
as they are moft commonly produced 
on the lateral runners, illuing from 
the fides of the main vine, and thit 
exuberancy of fap retards their fetting, 
we would advife, if the plants are ra- 
ther luxuriant, that, to rellrain the lap 
from flowing too abundantly into the 
fetting fruit, inltead of Hopping the 
end of the runner, as often done, ra- 
ther turn it carefully curve-ways, fo 
that the end may incline towards the 
main flem, whereby the fap will be 
direOed from the bearing runners, and 
its courfe continued principally into 
the more luxuriant branches; and the 
fooner this is done the better, which, 
after the fruit rs fet, and a little ad- 
vanced in growth, muft be tu;ned again 
into their former pofition. Many per- 
fons prune ott the ends of the bearing 
runners a joint or two beyond the fruit, 
in order tli;it the whole nourifliment 
of that branch fhould be di. edted to it, 
to make it more certainly i^and ; but 
this has often the contrary effed, fince 
flopping or fhortening a branch pro- 
motes its drawing a greater quantity of 
fap, which, as we have ahove obferved, 
is contrary to fetting thefe truit; there- 
fore, thofc branches on which the fet- 
ting fruit are immediately fituated, 
fhould iiot be flopped until the fruit is 
fairly fet, and full as big as a large 
walnut. 

Neither is it proper to flop many of 
the runners, which would occaiion 
therr tlirowing out numerous Ihoots, 
and caafe a great confu.ion of vine. 



As t!ie fruit fets, and lias attajne<< 
nearly the fize jurt mentioned, the 
branches on which they grow, if they 
were turned towards the main flem, as 
above advifed, fhould be now recon- 
dufted into their former dircftionsi 
th.it tlie f.jp may now find a freer paf- 
fnge to nourilh the fruit. 

Likewife, as the fruit fets, lay a 
piece of clean dry tile under each, to 
preferve it the better from the moifturc 
of the earth. 

The quantity of fruit to be expeAed 
to fet and arrive to perfe£lion, is from 
about two or three, to eight or ten 
upon each plint ; but this is according 
tD the (orts; for the Canteleupe Melon 
fometimes does not fet a!)Ove two or 
three on a plant ; on the other hand, 
the Rcmana will fometimes fet and ri- 
pen eight or ten, and fometimes many 
nK'! e fruit will fet than the plants are 
capaLl.of nourifliing; but, when this 
is the cafe, they fliould be thinned ; and 
even of the fmaller kinds leave only 
about fix or eight of the moll promi- 
fing fruit upon each pl.mt, and not 
more than five or fix of the larger 
kinds, and never leave more than one 
ffiiit upon the fame runner, and that 
wtiich is nearefl the main vine is gene- 
rally the molt eligible to leave, though 
it is beft to fix upon that of the for- 
wardefl and handfnmeft growth. 

After a tolerable crop of fruit is fet, 
and they advanced in magnitude, if the 
earth of the bed is dry, take the firit op- 
portunity of a mild day to give a good 
watering, efpecially if the bed is kept 
to a proper heat, which, according to 
the nature of the earth, and its deepth 
on the beds, may be afterwards either 
wholly difcontinued, or lefs or more 
repeated, as you fliall fee occafion by 
the temperature of moiflnefs, or dry- 
nefs of tlie eartli ; obfcrving, in giving 
water, let it be rather mod towards the 
fides of the bed, fo as llill to preferve 
the main Hem and principal root al- 
ways moderately dry. 

Continue alfo to admit air at all 
opportunities every day when the wea- 
tiier is fine, which is alfo very benefi- 
cial to the free growth of the young 
fwelling fruit. 

Still, likewife, continue to fuppori 
a due temperature of heat in the bed 
by occafionai linings with the ufual 
care, even till May ; for, by maintain- 
ing a bottom heat, the fruit will fwell 
freely. 



MEL 

fr«ly, continue a regular growth, and 
beinalittletimefurprifingly forwarded 
in magnitude. In applying the lall li- 
ning in April, or beginning or middle 
of May, it ii proper to earth it at top 
equal in depth to that of the bed, and 
by raifing the frame the fibres of tl.e 
plants win ftrike into the mould, and 
receive very great benefit, as wiliappear 
from the healthful appearance of the 
plants, and free growth of the fruit j 
butobferve, this part fhould be de- 
fended from great rains wich mats, that 
tlje extreme tibres may not receive and 
convey too much moirture to the vines 
and fruit, otherwife it would be more 
advifeable to confine the fibres wholly 
within the frame. 

Shadingjthe plants occafionally from 
the fun may be neceifary in very hot 
days, when the fun is fo powerful as to 
endanger fcorching their leaves, &c, 
obfer%'ing the fame rules as for the early 
cucumbers. 

As the leaves of the plants grow large, 
and prefs againft the glafles, continue 
to raife the frame at bottom three 
inches ; and as, in doing this, the earth 
next the fjame will be diftuibed, 
direftly therefore make good all inequa- 
lities J and, if the leaves are confider- 
abiy crouded, it is proper to thin them 
a little in proportion, fo as that the 
young fruit may receive the neceffary 
beneht of the fun and air. 

If, after a due quantity of fruit is 
fairly t'er, and advancing in growth, 
the vine is greatly crowded, it is pro- 
per to regulate them, by cutting off 
clofe all tliC fniall runners, proceeding 
from the principal fruit-branches, and 
others, and any luxuriant (hoots that 
fupport neithjr bearing runners nor 
fruit, and fucli other vine as may ap- 
pear to be fuperfiucus or unneceifiiry, 
cutting them off quite clofe, which 
will greatly encourage the free growth, 
and promote the fizeof t!je melons. 

In May and June, as the vines of 
the plants will be advanced to the (ides 
of the frame, if you have a full crop < 
of fruit fairiy fet, they may be pruned 
fo as to confine them within due ccm- 
pafs ; or, if you would have as many 
fruit as pofTibieto fucceed each other, 
they may be fuffered to run out from 
under the frame upon the top of the li- 
ning, to produce fomc late fruit to fuc- 
ceed thofe already fet within the fr.ime, 
raifing the frame i.'igh enou?h at bot- 

VOL. II. 



MEL 

tom for that purpofe towards the mid- 
dle of June jobferving, when the vine? 
are thus trained out, to cover t.'itm 
every night, and all very wet weather, 
with matsj for the gl^ffes mult alfo 
ftill be continued on the frames till the 
weather is become quite fettled and 
warm towards the end of this, or in 
next month. (July) and then oniy taken 
off a tew hours in the warmeft time 
of the day, and always put on at night 
and in all wet weather. 

When the fruit is nearly full grown, 
no water, or at lead very little, fhould 
be given ; for moillure will confidera- 
bly retard its ripening, as well as rob 
it of the richnefs of its flavour. At 
this period of growth let each fruit be 
placed upon a brick, or fome flat tiles, 
placed one upon another, to raife it a 
little above the leaves, to receive the 
greater benefit of the fun and air, where- 
by its flavour and relifh will be ccnfi- 
derably improved, being careful to 
turn it every three days, that every 
part may equally enjoy the l-,enefic of 
the fun's influence ; obferving alio, at 
this time, to admit a lartie portion of 
frefh air every mild day, by tilting the 
lights feveral inches behind, or in front, 
in very hot vveatl:er, which will alfo 
contribute very much to the rich fla- 
vour of the ripening fruit. 

From the feiiing of the fruit to its 
maturity, it takes commonly aoout fix 
or feven weeks, and fcmetimes more. 

The maturity of the fruit is known 
fometimts by its cr.-icking at the bafe, 
as if it would ftart or recede from the 
l^alk 5 fometime,- by its inclining to a 
yellow co!oOr ; frequently by impart- 
ing a fragrant odour ; and when the 
top of the fruit is foft, it is always a 
fure indication of ripenefs; there/are, 
obferving thefc appearances of matu- 
rity, let the fruit be cut at the ]5roper 
time J for if fuifcrtd to remain en the 
vine a day or two lo: g.r, it will lofe 
much of its fiavour. Let it be cur in 
a morning bcfo'e the fi^n fhine-; hot to 
evaporate its rich juices, cutting each 
fruit v/ith all i<s ftaik, and lay it in a 
dry but cool airy place tiil it is wanted 
for table. 

In the latter end of June, and In 
July, it the weat'er i? dry and warm, 
the plants may be pradu^lly inured to 
full air, by fhoving the elaii'c,-, off a fev^ 
hours in fine dry days ; but let them 
not have much rain, left it rot the 
H m:: n 



MEL 



MEL 



main rtem of the jlints, and it would 
alio clebafe tlie ttavour of the fruit ; 
therefore retain 'the glafTes ready jt the 
b.ick of the frames, tv.. draw on every 
right, and in all very wet and boiftc- 
roiis weather. 

Tlic culture of melons under hand 
or bell-ghires is efiefted by fowin^ tne 
feed in March or April, in a nuifcry 
hot-bed, under frsmes and lights, and 
when the plants are about a month 
eld tranfplant them into ridges or hot- 
beds, under the above glall'es, to re- 
main for fruiting 5 but, in default of 
frames, the plants might even bcraifed 
cut i rely under hand oi bell-glafTcs, pla- 
ced cnahot bed,fowin^ them in April, 
3iid tranfplant them into a freft^i hot- 
bed in May, under the fame forts of 
glaffcs, or oiled paper lights ; they will 
fometimes come in for a tolerable crop 
in Auguft and September; however, 
ths mod eligible prafticc is, where 
pofTibie, to fow and forward the plants 
in a hot-bed, under frames, pricking 
the young plants in pots, fo continuing 
them in the frame hot bed till large 
enough to ridge out, then tranfplant 
them with balls into the fruiting hot- 
bed. 

The moft proper period of time for 
fowing the above crops is, the third 
and fourth week in March j but, if 
poiTil'Ie, for the main crops, never be 
later than the firfl week in April. 

And the time for ridging out the 
plants under thefe glalTes, is from 
about t!;e eighteenth or twentieth of 
April until about the middle of May. 

For, it muft be remembered, that 
tbefe hand-glafs crops mort never be 
raifed nor ridged out before the above- 
mentioned times, otherwife. they will 
advance too much in growth, and fill 
the glafTes before the nature of the fea- 
fon admitted of their being trained out, 
unlefs fheltered by paper Irames, as 
they mult not be confined within the 
fmall compafs of thefe glafTes, longer 
than the beginning or middle of June, 
when the weather becomes fettled and 
warm ; nor ought the principal crops 
to be fowed nor ridged out later than 
the times above fpecified, becaufe they 
would not be forward enough to ripen 
their fruit in perfeftion before the ap- 
proach of cold weather in autumn. 

The feed may be fown, and the 
plants railed large enough for ridging 
oot, either in the hot-beds of forward 



melons or cucumbers now at work un- 
der frames, or in a fmall hot-bed made 
on purpofe for a one-light box, &c. 
earthed a few inches deep, fowing the 
feed either in pots half an inch deep, 
or in the earth of the bed, drilling ic 
in that depth, fo managing the fame 
as for the feedling melons anu cucum- 
bers for the frames ; prick the plants 
alio in pots, when a few days old, two 
in earh pot, as in the frame crops, gi- 
ving them nearly the fame culture ; and 
having expanded their two firft rough 
leaves, flop them at the firll joint, as 
there direfled; and when a month or 
five weeks old they will begin to fhoot 
runners, and (hould then be ridged 
out into the fruiting hot-bed. 

Therefore you muft forecafl to pre- 
pare the dung, and make the ridges or 
hot-beds in proper time, to be ready 
to receive the plants at the above peri- 
od of growth. 

The dimenfionsof the fruiting hot- 
bed fhould be four feet and half wide, 
and, if made in April, two feet and 
half, or a yard high ; and even if made 
early in May, two feet and half depth 
of dung will be requifite; nor fhould 
it be lefs than two feet high, made in 
any time of that month; and the length 
in proportion to the number of glafTes 
you intend working, allowing tliem at 
a yard and half diflance from centre 
to centre, in one row along the top of 
the bed ; obferving, that if the plants 
are ready for ridging out in April, or 
beginning of May, the bed (hould be 
made entirely above ground, for the op- 
portunity of lining the fides when the 
heat declines ; or, at this feafon, if the 
ground be tolerably dry, fo as there 
will not be much danger of ftanding, 
the bed may be made in a trench, for 
the advantage of having it retain 
its heat the longer, making the trench 
four feet and half wide, and eighteen 
or twenty inches deep; but obferving, 
that in three weeks after the bed is 
made, the trench mufl be widened a 
foot and half on each fide, and to the 
full depth, to admit of a lining of dung 
that width and depth to each fide of 
th^-bed ; for hot-beds made for thefe 
plants at either of the above-mentio- 
ned times, either on level ground or in 
a trench, will receive confiderable be- 
nefit by having a lining of hot dung 
added to each fide in three or four 
weeks after making, which will not 

only 



MEL 



MEL 



only throw in a frefh heat, but, by be- 
ing earthed at top, give an additional 
width tor the roots and vines of the 
plants to extend; oWerve iikewife, 
that it more than one range of hot- 
beds are intended, make them one be- 
fore another in a parallel dircflion, al- 
lowing a fpaceof four or five feet be- 
tween, which, if afterwards entirely 
filled up as high as the ridge with hoc 
dung and earth, will be of great ad- 
vantage to the plants. 

The ridge or ridges being made, 
then, according to the rules and pre- 
cautions exhibited in the handglafs 
crop of cucumbers, prepare to earth 
it with the proper comport for the re- 
ception of the plants, firft marking 
out with fticks theplaces for the glalTes, 
ID a row along the top of t! e bed, at a 
yard and half diftance; and then, on 
each place where the glafles are to 
ftand, lay about a wheel-barrow full 
of mould in a hill fifteen inches high 
at leart, and wide enough for a hand- 
glafs, for this depth of earth is as ne- 
ceflary here as in the frame crops, co- 
vering the other parts of the bed be- 
tween the bills only three inches deep 
at prefent, that the burning rteam and 
heat may have due vent, yet ro prevent 
it from evaporating too fuddenly ; it 
is afterwards to be gradually earthed 
aimolt as high as the top of each hil- 
lock : as foon as the bed is thus earthed 
fet on the glafles, one upon each hill 
of earth, covering the whole with mats 
at night, to draw up the heat the foon- 
er, and in a day or two the earth will 
be warm enough to receive the plants. 

When the earth, therefore, undtr the 
glalTes is properly warmed by the dung, 
then, having previoudy watered the 
pots of plants the day before, that the 
earth may adhere in a ball about their 
roots, proceed to plant one pot of two 
plants under each glafs, removing the 
pbnts out of the pots with a ball, in 
the manner direfted in the early cu- 
cumber hotbeds; and, levelling the 
top of the hillocks broad enough for 
each glafs to fland, make a wide hole 
in the middle, and piant the ball of 
plants, giving diredly a moderate wa- 
tering, and put on the glalTes, which 
muft remain conftantly overiheplants, 
and be covered every nI?htfor a month 
or two, & in all bad v,featlier,v;ith mats. 

They being now ridged o«it, obferve, 
if their removal caufes ihem to fi2z 



their leaves at the approach of the fun, 
it is necelfary to indulge them with a 
moderate ftiade the firft tlnee or four 
days, vvlien funny, or till they ftand 
the fun fully without flagging. 

Frefli air muft alfo be occafionally 
admitted in the warmelt time of every 
fine day, by tilling the warm fide of 
the glalTcs an inch, or a liitle more or 
lefs, according to the heat of the bed 
Ic tcmperatuie of the weather, having 
particular attention to fhut them down 
clofe in due time in tlie afternoon, or 
as foon as the we ither changes cojd, 
keeping them clofe on nights ; alfo in 
all unfavourable weather in the day 
time, unlefs there is a very great fttam, 
when, during its continuance, the 
glaflfes muft not be kept tocclcfc ;and, 
if the weather is then colder windy, 
the place where iliey are tihed ma; te 
defended with a mat; obferving, as 
the warm weather advances, and the 
plants make progrtfs in growth, a 
larger portion of ffefli air muft be ad- 
mitted, to harden the runners gradu- 
ally, in order to be trained out from 
under the glafTes in June. 

Cover tlie glafles and the whole fur- 
face of the bed every night with large 
mats, which muft conftantly be piac- 
dlifcd nntil the beginning or middle of 
June, or longer, if cold weather renders 
it neceftary; 

Likewife, in all heavy or cold rains, 
at any time, night or day, from the 
time of ridging out to the maturity of 
the fruit, particular care fliould be ta- 
ken to defend the whole ridge, by a 
good covering of mats, for much wet 
would ruin the crop. 

Waterings in warm weather once a 
week or fortnight, in modi rate quan- 
tities, may be nectflary, according to 
the rules mentioned in the frame crops. 

In a week or fortnight after ridging 
out, when the heat of tht bed is be- 
come moderate, begin to earth the 
whole gradually aimoft as high as the 
top cf the hills on which the plants 
ftand, prefTing it down from time to 
time, that it may retain its m.oiftuie 
the longer, fo as the plants may not 
require much water, raihng thewiole 
nearly equal with the fummits of the 
hillocks, preferving the middle of each 
lather higheft, to prevent moifture from 
foaking to the main ftcm, &c, as for- 
merly cautioned. 

Lining the ridges will be necelTury 
H 2 in 



MEL 



MEL 



in about three weeks after they are 
made J this ouglit not to be omitted, 
efpe iaily to thofe made in Apiii, oi 
early in May ; and having for this pur- 
pofe a quantity of well pieparel hot 
dung, add to each fide of the bed a 
foot ^nd halt widt!> at lead, and full as 
high a5 the dung of tlie bed, and di- 
rectly earth it at top to the thicknefs 
of that on tl)e ridge j and thus, liy 
the addition of the liningc, that be- 
Cdes the advantage of renewing the 
heit, it widens the bed to about feven 
feet, and forms a fine fcopw tor the 
fibres and vine* of the plants j obfer- 
ving, if there are t'vo or more ridges 
ranging pavnllel, that If the whole 
fpjce between was afterwards gradu- 
ally filled up with hotdung and mould, 
it would prove ftill more beneficial to 
the plants. 

Having direfled Aopping the plants 
at the nrA joint to procure lateral run- 
ners, it thefe laterals are alfo ftopt at 
the third joint they will more fpeedily 
furnifh a tarther fupply for bearing, a» 
obfi-rved of thofe in the frames, 

A'lout the end of May, or beginning 
of June, the firfl ridged-out plants 
vpill have nearly filled the glafTes with 
their runners, at which time do not 
omit indulging them with a large por- 
tion of free air at all opportunities, by 
tilting the glafle^ every mild day tvyo 
or three inches high, or in proportion 
to the temperament of the weather, fo 
as to fl. engthen the runners, and harden 
them by degree* to the full air, which, 
in June, when fo much advanced in 
growth that they c 'n be no longei con- 
tained within ttie glalFes, muft be 
trained out j the gblfes mulf then be 
raifed three inches on every fide, on 
props, as for tliC cucumbers, and the 
runners trained out with regularity ; 
but if fome dry reeds are previoufly 
fpread upon the furface of the bed. for 
the vine to run upon, it will preferve 
them and the young fruit from the 
damp of the earth j obferving, the 
glafTes aie to remain conilantly over 
each hole of plants, to proteft the 
main rtem and principal roots the bet- 
ter from wet and other inclement wea- 
ther, but aie now to remain day and 
night fupported on props, as above : 
continue alfo the nightly coverink- of 
mats for the firft tortniglit, at Icalt, 
after the plants are trained (lom undtr 
tiie glafTes, to pro;e£l the tender vines 
til) inured to ilieiuli air. 



Obferve, likewife, that as n^elont 
are rath'.r impatient of copious moi- 
Aure, it is advifeable, after being thus 
trained out, to proteft them with great 
care from exccflive rains and cold, at 
all times, day or night, by proper co- 
vering; the moft effc^ual means for 
this purpofc is, to place oiled paper 
frames over the ridges, as foon as the 
vines are trained out; however, in de- 
fault uf thefe conveniencies, we would 
advife to arch the bed over with hoops 
or rods, &c. jurt to the height of the 
hand-glalTes ; fo having good thick 
mats or canvas cloths always ready to 
draw over tde arches, in time ol heavy 
or CO d rains, and bluftering winds, 
will be tound of very confiderable ad- 
vantage, fincc a few houis violent rain 
often injure the plants fo greatly, that 
they never after recover, fo a& to pro- 
duce handfome fruit, nor biing any to- 
lerable crop to perfedlion. 

But when the beds ate covered with 
paper frames, thefe remaining con- 
flantly on the beds, efftdluaily defend 
them at ail ti;4ii;s, and admit a due por- - 
tion of light, &c. to the plants. 

If, however, you ufe only mats or 
canvas, to cover occafionally in cold 
nights and bad weather, let thefe be 
always taken wholly off betimes every 
fine mornmg, or as foon in the day as 
the weather is favourable. 

In June and July the plants will 
fpread their runners all over the bed, 
and will rtiew fruit abundantly, at 
which period of fhewing fruit veiy lit- 
tle water fhould be given, efpecially if 
there is a proper depth of earth on the 
beds,but in very hot & dry weatlier,after 
the firll tolerable fhew of truit is fairly 
fet, and begin to advance in magnitude, 
a moderate watering once a week, or 
ten or twelve days, whilft the Iruit are 
taking their growth, will encouiage 
them, promote thtirfize, and encreafe 
/he fubftance of their tie(h, being care- 
ful to apply the water moltly towards 
the fides of the bed to the extreme fi- 
bres, fo as to preferve the main Item 
and princi},al roots from receiving too 
much wet ; and be fure ncvei once to 
over-water the beds,which might prove 
of very had conftquence; but for the 
greater convenience of watering at this 
period, a deep diill may be drawn 
around the outfides of the bed, and 
the necelTary fupply of water poured 
into thefe drills, whereby the fibres 

will 



MEL 



MEL 



vv'M receive Us benefit without wetting 
the leaves, branches, or fruit; but 
when the fruit is nearly full grown, 
give as little water as poflible. 

With lefpefl to ufelcfb and fuperflu- 
ous orunnecelTary branches or runners, 
if there be any, it is eligible culture to 
clear them oft occafionally, to | revent 
confufionof vine, and lor the profpe- 
rity of the Iruit, executing it accord- 
ing to the rules laid down for thofe of 
the frame plants. 

Obferve alfo the fame of fuperfluous 
fruit, leaving only fuch a due quantity 
of the moft promifingand beft-iituattd 
in each hole, as the plants can be ex- 
pefted to bring to peiie<5lion. 

During the growth of the fruit, ob- 
ferve, that if the ridges are no: covered 
with oiled paper, but only with the 
hand glalTei, &c. and the weather 
ftiould prove rather unfavourable or 
wettifh, and that m^ny of the tiui; are 
fituated on the advanced vifie witliout- 
fide of the glaffis, it is adviftable either 
to move the :tuit gcnt.y under their 
Own refpeftive glafles ; or rather, wheie 
there are any fpaie glafTes, bring thtfe 
and place over the fruit, contri vin^eacli 
glafs to cover as many as ma) be con- 
venient; for it is nece/Tary thus to 
proteft thefe fruit from injury of wea- 
ther, fopf'orting each glafs two or three 
Inches high on props ; and thii (helter 
of the glafTes v.ili greatly improve the 
(izeand flavour o! the fruit: but in 
unfavourable ftafonsoii'd paper frames 
are the molt efftftual, becaufe, being 
tlie placed all over the ridge,they defend 
plants alio, as well as the fruit, both 
from cold and wet ; or^ in cold wet 
feafons, if there are any fpare garden- 
frames and Ii6;hts, chefe might be placed 
over the ridges, as foon as they are at 
liberty in Jure, ;u'y, or Auguft, fo to 
defend the punts and fruit the re- 
mainder of the fummer, by (hovingon 
the liehtb in all unfavourable weather, 
day or nigl t. 

When the fruit fs encreafed fome- 
what ctnfiderai ly ingrowt:', it iti pro- 
per to turn them every three or lour 
days, that they may fv. ell equally, and 
each fide have an equal benefit of the 
fun. 

Their ripening is determinable by 
the appearanct of matutity, mentioned 
in the early crop, obleiv;i-,g alfo the 
fame rules as there advifed in cutting 
tliem for table. 



Melons are alfo fruited In great 
perfection under oiled paper frames, 
by placing them over thofe ridges 
of plants which are ridged out in 
April and May, for they will not 
fucceed in earlier crop^, but for the 
crops juft mentioned, they are ccn- 
ftderably the moft eligible fhelters to 
place over the ridges jn the middle or 
latter end of May, or beginning of 
June, alter the plants have fiil-jd the 
hand-glalTes, thefe being then previ- 
oufly removed entirely away, and the 
paper frames placed upon the bed ; for 
thefe frames being made of due width 
and proper length to cover the whole 
ridge, and the paper beirig wtl] oiled 
with llnfeed-oil, to render it proof 
agalnlt wet, and more pellucid or 
tranfparent to admit the lays of light 
and heat in a proper degrte, that they 
are continued conltantly upon the 
ridge=, whereby the plants are at all. 
times protefted (rem all inclement 
weather, either wet, wind, ccld, or 
heat, ai, although, the paper admits 
the rays of light. Sec. yet it, at the 
fame time, affords the mod agrceahl^ 
fhade from the fcorcliing fun. 

Theie frames are formed either like 
the roof of a houfe, or archways, like 
the tilt of a waggon, four or five feet 
wide, ten long, and a yard high, 
fram.ed of thin flips of wood and lath, 
or broad hoops, &c. but thofe made 
ridge-fafhion with two floping fides, in 
the manner of the ridge of a houfe, are 
rather the moft eligible form, becaufe 
on one fide may be made two panntls 
to open with hinges tov. ards each end, 
and each pannel about two feet wide, 
being convenient for giving air, and 
other necefTaiy work : in either of the 
above forms the frames are conrtruf^ed 
in an open manner, having the ribs 
or fpars, a foot or fifteen inches afun- 
der, or at fuch diftances as to admit of 
pafting the (heets of paper commodi- 
oufly ; but previous to palling on the 
paper, draw lines of packthread, &c. 
acrofs corner-ways from rail to rail of 
the frame, drawing other lines intcr- 
fedtirg ©r crolTing the firft, thefe being 
necsffary for fupporting the paper the 
more effe£>ually againit the power 
of wet and wind ; then having fome 
ftrong printing paper, let it be a little 
damped, that it may not fink in hol- 
lows alter it is fixed on the frame j 
therefore, as foon as it is damped, pafle 

jt 



M E L 



MEL 



it on the frame; two large (heets will 
gcnirally rari.;e from bottom to top, 
parting it t'lcurely to the ratttrs and 
railit, and fo ai> the middle of each 
flieet rei1i upon tlie intcrfedions of the 
paLkihieid lines ; and when the pa- 
per and palling is thoroughly dry, 
brufh the cutfide all over rglitly with 
boiled !ir,rct.i-o;i, thcnfufici the aame 
to (Kind in a dry ihed till tlie wliolc is 
p'-Ttec'tiy well diird before it is ufed. 

But tor want of re^jlr.r made frames, 
a quantity of hoops or rods might be 
placed aciofs the ridgts of jaianta arch- 
ways, rtickin^ both ends into the tartli, 
about one foot afunder, £c two high, fo 
drawing lines of pack -thread along from 
hoop to tuiop.both to Heady the arches, 
and help to fupport the paper; then 
paf^e a quantity of ftrong paper in 
large pieces about three or four ftieets 
in width, and in length proportionable 
to that of t.hc 1. i^ts they are to cover ; 
then oil then, .irh linfeed-oil, and, 
whsn thoroughly dry, fpread them 
over the hoop-arches, and fecure them 
by line<; drawn from end to end ; and 
that for the admifljon of air, and do- 
ing other nectffary work, one fuie of 
the paper is readily turned up at bot- 
tom as far as convenient. 

In refpcdt to the mode of ufing eitiuer 
f:f thefe paper fhciters, the plants are 
previoufly to he raifed in hot-beds, 
under frames and li^thts, exadlly at the 
lime an:l manner as direded for the 
hand-elafs crops, and to be ridged out 
. alfo at the Hime time and manner there 
menjioned j obfcrving, that, in default 
of hand-ghilFes, tlicfe paper frames 
may be ufed as foon as the plants are 
rid,,ed out; but in this cafe the ridging 
Out iTiould not be performed till May : 
hut the moft fuccefsful way is, when 
thereaie hand-glalFes fufncient, to place 
thefeglairej over tUeplants at firft ridg- 
ing out, as diretffcd in the hand-glafs 
culture, managing them in the fame 
way in. every refpcdl, till the plants 
h.nve f.lied the glafTes with their run- 
ners ; then remove the glalFes away, 
and phce over the paper frames. 

Whsn t!;cfe iheltcrs are placed over 
the plants, free air mull be admitted 
in proportion to the temperature of 
the feafon, either by opening the pan- 
nels lefs or more, according to the 
v.armth of each day, or by tilting one 
fide of the frames ac bottom, &c. for 
tlis article of frelh air luuft not be o- 



mitted at all opportunities, particularly 
when the plants (hew fruit, the air be - 
ing not only necefTary to ftrengthen the 
plants, but alfo to affill in the impreg- 
nation of the fruit, for the reafons ex- 
plained in the early cucumber work j 
and towards the end of June, when 
the feaf©n is warm, the frames may be 
raifcd at bottom about four inches. 

It i» alft) necc/Tary to defend tlie 
plants over the above ihelters witli 
mats every night till towards the mid- 
dle of June; like wife, occafionaJly, in 
all hard rain^ day or night. 

Thcfc paper fhelters never laft but 
one feafon, that, is, the paper; but as 
to the frames, they, with care, will 
continue ufcful fevtral years, fo mull 
be fiefh papered every fpring, in pro- 
per time to be icady to place over the 
beds. 

Melon phnts are generally between 
three and four months from their firft 
appearance till they produce ripe fruit, 
and they all the time require the con- 
ftant aid of artificial heat, which, 
though they are fruited iii great perfec- 
tion in that of dung, i. e. dung hot- 
beds, yet thofe of tanner's bark being 
confiderably of more durable and re- 
gular heat, the plants by that aid may 
Itill be fruited to greater advantage, 
and with lefs trouble, becaufe, if made 
entirely of new tan, no lining, or but 
very little, will be neceffary, nor is 
there fuch danger to be apprehended 
from fteaming or violent heat, as in 
dung hot-beds ; but it mud be remem- 
bered, that the purchafe of tlie tan 
renders thefe kind of hot-beds more ex- 
penlive than dung, though, if both 
thefe materials are obliged to be pur- 
chafed, and the tan can be obtained 
within a moderate diftance,thereis but 
an inconlidtrabie difference in the ex- 
pence. 

But, In cafe of fcarcity of new tan 
for the above purpofe, the wafle or 
caft-off baik of the floves, mixed with 
a quantity of new, might be ufed, pro- 
vided, however, theoid tan is not be- 
come quite earthy ; fo mixing one half 
old to one of new, which will form a 
moderately ftrong and durable hear, 
and will anfwer for beds made not ear- 
lier than the middle of February, or 
beginning of March. 

Or, for tiie latter crops, beds might 

be formed entirely of cafl-off bark, 

provided, as above obferved, it is noj 

becom. 



MEL 



M E L 



become very earthy, and its ferment- 
ing property not quite exhauftcdj 
which, if not, when frelh worked up, 
and formed again into a bed, will re- 
new its heat, though in a moderate de- 
gree, therefore (hould not be ufcd for 
beds earlier than March or April, and 
which, if made in a pit formed of port 
and planking , fo as to admit of a fub- 
ilantial lining of hot dung to each fide 
in fix weeks or two months after ma- 
king, would be an addititional advan- 
tage to the plants. 

Obfervc, that either the above-men- 
tioned bark-beds for the culture of me- 
lons, mu(l be made in fome kind of 
pit, or frame, to confine the bark, 
which otherwife could not be formed 
into a bed, or, in default of fuch a 
pit, one might be formed of port and 
planking, of width and length for one 
or more large three-light frames, and 
three feet and a half deep, to contain 
that fubftance of baik, and may either 
be funk half way in the ground, or 
not fo much, according as the foil is 
dry or wet ; but it would be moft con- 
venient to have it not funk more than 
a foot, for the advantage of adding a 
lining of hot dung to the fides, if there 
(hould be occafion j I would there- 
fore obferve, that a planked pit, for 
the culture of melons, may be ratlicr 
preferable to brick or ftone, becaiifeif 
you Ihall find it necefTary to line the 
beds, by applying hot dung againft the 
oiitfide of the planking, its heat will 
readily penetrate fufficiently to recruit 
the declining heat of the bed; for as 
the melons are to be planted in the full 
bed, and not in pots, as pradifed to 
pine-apple plants, there is no ftirring 
up the bark to revive the heat, as in 
ftoves, and a lining may probably be 
necefTary to thofe beds, where caft-off 
bark is ufed, or perhaps fomecimcs one 
lining to thofe beds made of new tan, 
may be of advantage, jult when the 
fruit is fetting and taking their full 
growth ; on thefe ccnfiderations, con- 
trive the pit fo as to admit of lining 
the fides almofl or quite to the bottom. 

The time of year to begin the cul- 
ture of melons in thefe fort of hot- 
beds, is the fame as mentioned in dung 
hot-beds, and the phnts fhould be 
raifed in a nurfery-bed as there direct- 
ed ; and when of the proper age and 
fize, as there obferved, tranfplant them 
into the bark-beds to remain to fruit. 



Thefe fruiting beds fhould be made 
a fortnight or three weeks bcfore-hjnd, 
to acquiie a } roper heat in due time 
for the reception of tiie plants fiom the 
nurfery hot-oed, at their proper period 
of growth. Let the beds be m.ide the 
full width and length ol the pit allotted 
for tliem, and three feet at leafl deep; 
but if cafl-off hark is ufed, three and 
a half depth in bark will be rcquifite. 
As foon as made, cover the bed with 
the proper frames and glallcs, to de- 
fend it fro.ii rains J and in about a 
fortnight it will be arrived to a proper 
temperature of heat; then earth it at 
top, as diredcd for the dung-beds, and 
the earth being warm, fct two pbnts 
with their bail of earth entire, juii un- 
der the middle of each ligl.t, give a little 
water, and manage them according to 
the former diredions. 

But if the bed ii to be made moftly 
of calf-cfF bark, as it will be fome- 
v.'iat of a mouldering texture, and of 
but moderate heat, inifead of carihing 
it as above obferved, you may try the 
fuccefs of planting intirely in tiie bark, 
wit.-iout any earth at all. Let the bed 
be of the above-mentioned dimenfions, 
ai^d covered with the frames and lights, 
and in about three weeks it v.-]!! be 
warm enough either to receive feed, oi- 
plants, firfl making holes in the mid- 
die of the bed, one immediately unJcr 
the middie of each light, fix or eight 
inches deep, and twelve or fifteen 
broad, fill tiiem with rotten or finely 
pounded bark, forming each a littis 
hollow, bafon-like,in which either fow 
feed, and when the plants are a week 
or .wo old, thin them to two of the 
belt in each hole, ar.d there let theni 
remain to fruit: or, to make the mci\ 
of the bed, put in plants raifed to a 
proper age, as in the dung hot-bed 
culture. 

The plants being tranfphnted into 
either of the above bark hot-beds, ob- 
ferve the lights are to be kept conllantly 
on, being careful to give the plants a 
proper fliare of warm air at all oppor- 
tunities, as tl;e weather permits, ac- 
cording to the former rules. 

It muft be rein ::ked, that the plar.rs 
will not reqiiin- much water in thefe 
hot-beds, as bark continues to fupport 
a fine moift heat, of a very agreeable 
nature to the growth of molf^fcrts of 
plants, fo that the melons will be lound 
to fucceed with a veiy moderate fupj^iy 

of 



M E R 



MIC 



of water, and the Isfs the better, both by Linnaeus metcunalis caule brach'tats, 
for tiie continuance of llie heat of the foli'it gtabrh; the poifonoiis mercuriaiii 
beds as well as for tlie advantage of cJuU/ini//liiiJ/imo,/oliis fcairis; it h corn- 
plants' and fruit. monly called dogs mercury. 

Should you find the Iieat of the beds Englifh Mebcur v, \Binui Htitrieus.'] 

eonfidtiahly declined when the fruit ii This is met with by road fides, and in 

fedini;, or taking its firft growth, a uncultivated places. It is ranked 

good lining of Iiot dung againft tlie among the five emollient herbs, but 

cutfides of the pit will be very be- rarely made ufe of in praftice. The 

neficial. leaves are employed by the common 

As to faving melon feed, we need people for healing flerti wounds, clean- 
only farther obfeivc here, that it Ihould fmgold ulcers, and other like purpofes, 
be faved only from the very finelt fruit Z)u^j Mercury. Sue Mzkcvky. 
ofihcrefpeflivevarieties.&fuchashave MET. A llrike or bufhel. 
a firm and highly flavoured flefh ; this METHEGLIN. A liquor made 
(hould be particularly obfcrved when with honey and water, or honey and 
the fruit is ferved at table, and the beer fermented together. 



right feed propeily referved in its own 
pulp, and fent to the gardener; which, 
after laying in the pulp a few days, 
may be waihed out, and all the heavy 
or -good feed which fink in the water 



MEZERON. Sit Spurge Lauhzl. 
MEU. 5«Spignal. 
METER YARD, A meafurJng 
ftaff. 
MICE. Field mice are as numer-' 



are to be preferved, dried, and put up ous as thofe of the houfe, and the 

for faviog. farmer often finds tfiem as troublefome, 

It will retain its germinative pro- and fometimes much more fo. There 

perty ten or twelve years, but when are feveral fpecies of tliem ; but they 

from about three to five years old, is are all equally his enemies : all feeding 

in its heft perfe^ion for ufe, upon his feed-corn and pulfe in the 

^j?<.T Melon. SeeCiTRvt. fame manner: and are all to be de- 

Melon 'r/:ifile, [Cuc7us.] This plant ftroyed by the fame means. 

is of a very fingular flru^ure, being Drier lands are more fubjeft to this 

fhaped like a melon, having neither kind of vermin than thofe which lie 

vifible flem, branches, nor leaves, but wet ; and of all the kinds of fowing, 

appears like a large, roundifh, flefhy that under furrow moft cxpofes, tKp 

mafs, or lump, fitting clofe to the i&tAtot\\zm,Cn/fs2)^ffi^/ii^i>£'/a(>J^/i)* 



earth, and throwiiig down roots to a 
confiderahle depth. There are two 
forts, a larger and a fmaller; they are 
both propagated by feed, but require 
the afTiflance of a ftove. 

MELLET. A dry fcab on a horfes 
foot. 

MERCURY, \TAt:-cuna:\i:\ Male 
and female French mercury ; the 
leaves. Thefe ftand among the five 
emollient herbs ; and in tliib intention 
are fometimes made ufe of in glyflers. 



is cafe, as the furrows will fall P - 
lat hollow, they afford a fhelter ^'^^''' 



In thi 
fomewhat 
to the mice at the time of their com- 
mitting all their havock. 

The farmer feems to contrive for 
their feafting and fafery together in this 
method ; for the corn or other feed lies 
perfedtly expofed to them, and they 
are not expofed to his eye while they 
are feeding upon it. 
In thefe lands we have with great con- 
cern often traced the path of thofe de- 



A fvrup made from the leaves, given vourers, and feen all eaten up, or ear- 



in the dofe of two ounces, is faid to 
prove a mild and ufeful iaxatixe. 

There is another fort of mercui7 
growing in woods and hedges, which 
by fome botanic writers, as having the 
fame virtues with the foregoing, and 
as more palatable, has been lately found 
pofTtifed of noxious qualities. This 
may he dillinguifhed from by its being 



ried away to fome little dirtance : for 
under the covert of this manner of 
tillage they will make their nefts and 
granaries as it were in different places ; 
and the feed fhall be found (lored up 
in one of thefe, that fhould have co- 
vered a great fpacc of ground with its 
flioot. 

The hufbandman will b. this fee a 



perennial plant, larger, having its great difadvantage attending that kind 
leaves rough, and the f\:ilk not at all of tillage; and he will know in what 
branched, The officinal fort is named fields he is mofl to fear thefe enemies. 

Though 



M I C 

Thought his manner of fowing gives 

- the mice an advantage, the other way 

does not furficicntly fecure the corn 

^ from th-m. When i: is fown in the 

/._ common way and harrowed m. it is 

r^ fctcter covered ; and there is a greut 

deal more trouble for them to get atit : 

' but they are very induftriou;', and in 

. this cafe will dig ai>e: it, and tear up 

and drJtroy a ijrta: deal. 

\yhen it is fown under furrow, they 
begin with it as foon as it is in the 
ground; but when it is harrowed in, 
they wait for its fiift fprout. This 
gives the farmer an advantage, becdufe 
he knows exa^ly when he i^ to txpeft 
them ; and it is a great article of fafety 
to know when to guard againlt the 
dan«:er. 

The careful hufbandman is not in 
this cafe to wait till he fees the (hoct 
of his feed; fcr the mice have very 
quick eyes, and they will perceive it a 
day cr two before he does : he is there- 
fpre to look to his ground a dav or two 
before the time ol its being fsen co- 
vered v/ith the young (hoot ; and then, 
as he knows the devourers will be 
about, he is to prepare for their de- 
ftruflion. 

Traps are a very improper method of 
getting rid of thefe creatures. There 
is no way well w; rth his confideration 
but poifon ; and happily jor him there 
are drujs which will anf.ver this pur- 
pofe of poifon to thefe creatures, which 
are not literally and Itriftly poifon to 
ourfelves. Thefe he U to ufe, and they 
will fufficiently anfwer his purpofe. It 
would be a difagreeabie thing to he 
meddiire; with ratfbane; but there is 
no harm in handling the ingredients he 
has to ufe. 

In thefirft place let him confiderwhat 
fields from their foil are moft likely 
to harbour mice, and in what places 
he ha^ known them mofl mifchievous. 
Let him never fow thefe under furrow 
for thit takes from him all opportunity 
of attacking his enemies : they work 
under rround as it were, and wiJJ never 
come into the way of liis poifor. 

When thefe fields have been fown 
Qtherwife, and harrowed over, the 
mlc^ muft come upon the fuxface and 
dig down for the corn, and they v.ill 
then certainly meet with any i l.ing he 
lays on the ground for them. 

Let him mix up a peck of barley- 
jnci!, a pound of powder of white 
Vox. 11. 



M I I. 

hellebore root, and iq'ct ounces of pow- 
der of ftave\-acre J an.) when thefe are 
all mixcrd toi;eth-/r by fiftiug through a 
coarft hair fieve, add halt a p.und of 
honey, and as much milk as wiij work 
the whcJe into a palle. • 

Let rliii be broke into piece5, and 
foacter'd over the field at the time when 
the mice are known to be coming. 
They will eat it greedily, and it is cer- 
tain death to them. Tiiere is nothing 
in any of the ingredients difagreeabie 
to the tafte when thus mixed; and 
ft'-ery morfel of it will be devoured. 
The mice will be kept from digging 
after f.ecorn; and at the fame tjoie 
killed by the ingredients. 

This is the method tobeufed jufl at 
the time of danger; but the farmer 
who has a field pelttred with thefe ver- 
min, will do wsil to be thinking at 
other times ajfo of deArcying chem, 

Ti>ry live at a fmall depth under 
ground, and there bretd in abundance. 
The paflage into their ne« is by a Tit- 
tle round hole, and thefe areeafily feen 
in dry weather. 

On thefe occafions the farmer (houlj 
go his rounds with a quantity of the 
paAe before direfted : and wherever 
h?fees a hole throw in a piece. A lit- 
tle trouble of this kind taken froin 
time to lime in rtre heat ot fummer, 
when the holes are mcft confpicucjus, 
would utterly root them out. 
MIDDING. Artunghjll. 
WILFOIL, {^Uljutum.l Milfoil or 
yarrow. This grows plentifully about 
the fides cf fielf^s, and on dry com- 
monj. flowering greateA part of the 
furnmer. The leaves have a rcueli 
bitterifli tafte, and a faint arcmatie 
fmell. Their virtues are thofe of a 
very mild aftringent", and as fuc!i 
they Hand recommended in hzmorrha- 
gles both in'ernal and external, diar- 
rhoea?, debil ty and laxity of the fibres; 
and likcwifc in fpafmoriic hyllericalaf- 
feflions. In thefe cafw», fome of die 
Germans have a very high opinion of 
this herb, particularly Stahl, vhoef- 
teems it a very efiedual aftrir.gcnr, 
and in his larfuage, one of the molt 
certain tcni. and fcdaiives. Its vir- 
tues are extrad'.ed in grcstert periec- 
tion by proof fpirit : waur t^kes up 
its 3'tripgency and hittefneis, f ut Ltls 
of its aromatic flovour; tir£!ures made 
in reaified fpirit contain the la ter, 
with Utile of the form«r, 

I Tb« 



Ni I L 



M I L 



r/- 



/t2C, 



The flowers of milfoil are cojifider- 
ably Aronger in aromatic flavour tiian 
th« leavei; in diAilla.ion, tliey yield 
a fmall quantity of eifcntial oil^ of an 
elegant blue colour. 

MILDEW, Blights ant! mill dews 
have been generally taken tu be the 
fame thing, which hath begotten much 
error, and the ways and means ufed 
for the prevention and cure have mif- 
carried through the Ignorance of the dif- 
«afc. Mill-dew is quite another thii g 
from Wafting. Mill-dews being caufed, 
as fome fay, from the condenlation of 
a fat and moifl exhalation in a hot and 
dry fnmmer from the blolTom and ve- 
getables of the earth, and alfo from tlie 
earth itfelf, which by the coolncfs and 
ferenity of the air is condenfed into a 
fat glutinous matter, and falls on the 
earth again, part whereof refts on the 
leaves of the oak and other trees, whofe 
leaves are fniooth, and do not eafily 
admit the moifture into them, as the 
elm or other rougher leaves do, which 
raill-dews become the principal food of 
the bees, being of itfelf fweet, and 
cafily convertible into honey. 

Other parts thereof relt on the ears 
and rtaiks of wheat, befpotting the 
flalks with a different colour from the 
natural, being of a glutinous fubftance 
by the heat of the fun, and fo binds 
up the young tender clofe ears of the 
wheat, that it prevents the growth and 
compleating theimperfe£Vgrain therein, 
which occafioneth it to be very light in 
harvefV, and to yield a poor lean grain, 
for which reafon many reckon the 
bearded wheat not fo fubjeft toit, as the 
other, the beards defending the ear 
from it. 

Some think mill-dews to proceed 
from vapours arifing from the dung, 
and fo falls upon the corn ; becaufe 
lands new dunged are the mod fubjc^ 
to it. 

But if. afterthemildewfalIs,afhow. 
erfuccceds, or the wind blows ftifly, it 
waflieth or fhaketh it off, are the only 
natural remedies againft this diltemper. 

Some advife in the morning, after the 
mill-dew is fallen, and before therifing 
of the fun, that two men go at fome 
convenient diftance in the furrows, 
holding a cord ftretched (Ireight be- 
twixt them, carrying it fo that it 
may (hake oti the dew from the tops 
of the corn, before the heat of the fun 
hits thickened it. 



It is alfo advifed to fow wheat in 
open grounds, where the wind may the 
better (hake off the dew, this being 
looked upon to be the only inconveni- 
ency inclofures are fubje£l unto, but it 
is evident that the field lands are no: 
exempted from mill-dews, nor fmut, 
where it is more than in in^lofed lands. 

Some fay, tiiat lands that have been 
fubjefl to mill-dews many years, have 
been cured by fowing of foot with, or 
ju(l after, the corn. Stc Blight. 

Mr. Miller takes the true caufe of 
the mill-dew's appearing mofl upon 
plants which are expofcd to the eaft, 
to proceed from a dry temperature in 
the air when the wind blows from thai 
point, in which cafe it flops the pores of 
plants, and prevents their perfpiration, 
whereby their juices are concreted 
upon the furface of their leaves ; and 
tliat concretion being of a fweetilh na- 
ture, infers are incited thereto. Thofe 
infefts, finding their proper nutriment, 
depofit their eggs, and multiply fo fait 
as to cover.the whole furfaces of plant>, 
and, by corroding their ve(rels, pre- 
vent the motion of the fap. He thinks 
it very probable, that the excrements 
of thefe infefts may enter the vclTels of 
plants j and, by mixing with their 
juices, may fpread the infeflion all 
over them j for it is obferveable, that 
whenever a tree has been greatly in- 
fefled by this mill-dew, it feldom re- 
covers in two or three years, and many 
times never is entirely clear from it af- 
ter. But he by no means allows thefe 
infefts to be the firft caufe of this dif- 
temper, as fome have miftakenly ima- 
gined. It is obfervable, that mill-dews 
and blights frequently attack only one 
fort of corn, or fruit, and leave tke 
ether fpecies unhurt. 

Count Cinanni diftingullhes two 
principal kinds of mill-dew, one of 
which fpots the blades and (\ems of 
corn, and dries upon them, without 
ever producing any povider; but pene- 
trates through their outward covering, 
and entirely dries them up. This is 
generally of a pale colour, either red- 
di(h, yello\\ifh. purplei(h, or blackilh, 
and fometimes a vai legated mixture of 
many colours. The other fpeedily 
covers the plant with a moilland thick- 
i(h fubltance, which afterwards be- 
comes dry, and turns into a powder,. 
of one or other of the above- menti- 
onedcolours, but moft commonly red- 

dilb- 



M I L 



MIL 



rfl(h or yellowifti. This, fays he, al- 
ways fsde5, corrodes, and feparatcs the 
outer ikin trom tl:e plant. The for- 
mer extends to every fpccies of corn ; 
but the latter iaalmofi peculiar to wheat 
in the blade ; though it is fometimes 
feen upon oats and barley. Some may 
perhaps reckon, as a third fpecies 
of mildew, a yellowifti fubrtance, or 
powder, lometimes feen under the 
membrane of the blades of corn, where 
it raifes blifters, makes many little holes 
and cracks, and corrodes the fibres ; 
and perhaps they may not be wrong 
in accounting it fuch. 

He is conft.ient that this diftemper 
is the rubigo of the Latins. See Ho- 

N E V-DIW. 

MILK. Milk it a fluid feparated 
from the nutritious juice of bodies, 
called their chyle ; depofited by nature 
in the breafls or udders of female ani- 
mals, during their pregnancy, and 
for the nourifliment of their young. 

After the young is born, it becomes 
in greater abundance: and it will be 
prepared and furnifhed by nature in 
that plentiful manner, fo long as it is 
fucked by the young, or any other way 
drawn at times ; but when no ufe is 
made of it, the fupply ceafes ; and the 
milk, as the expreiTion is, dries up cf 
itfelf. 

Milk is very much of the nature of 
what is called chyle, ciiat is, the nu- 
tritious juice feparated from our food, 
and intended for the fupport and nou- 
rifliment of our bodies. All our foods 
tend to the formation of chyle, and the 
great purpofe of nature in their digef- 
tion is the furni/hing of a fufficient 
iupply of it; for on this refloration 
and prefervation of the fabrick depend. 

Chyle is a ihin white juice, confifl- 
ing of the fineft and mofl nourifhing 
part of our feodj and milk is, properly 
fpeaking, nothing more than a thicker 
and richer chyle : wiien the tsvo are 
compared together, there is found but 
little difference between them ; there- 
fore we may very reafonably conclude, 
that milk not only is made of chyle, 
but that It is made by a very natural 
and eafy procedure; for there feems 
nothing more to have been done than 
thi<, that a quantity of chyle has been 
brought into the glands of the breafts, 
and there fome of its watery parts have 
been feparated from it ; and the re- 
nainder becoming richer by that 



means, has been left there ready to be 
drawn by tiie mouth of the young, or 
orherwife, in the form of what we call 
milk. 

When miik is viewed with power- 
ful glafles, it does not look an unifomri 
white liquor, as It appears to the naked 
eye, but is difcovered to confift of two 
different matters ; the one white and 
rich, which is kept feparatein round 
drop" and the other thin and watry : 
this lait is the more large quantity, and 
the other drops fwim in it. 

In the fame manner when we make 
butter and cheefe, we force a reparation 
of thofe parts, which we could not fee 
to be diftindl and different in the milk, 
though this common operation fhews 
they were fo : the rich part makes the 
butter and cheefe, and the other runs 
off poor and watery in the butter milk 
and the whey. 

Thefe three parts are, i. the oily j 
2. the curdy; and 3. the watery. The 
oily are, as we have feen, the buttery 
parts ; the curdy are the cheefy j and 
the watery are the wheyey. 

Nothing but the force of nature In 
the body of the animal, could work 
and blend thefe perfectly into one rich 
and nouri/hing fluid, fit for the tender 
flomach of the young. We find they 
are fo mixed there; and that they con- 
tinue mixed in that manner for fome 
time, after the milk Is out of the body; 
but when they have once feparated, 
either naturally or by art, we fliall never 
be able to mix them fo again. Butter, 
cheefe, and whey, were all contained 
in the milk, and nature united them 
in that manner; but all our chymiftry 
will never be able to mix butter, cheefe, 
and whey, into milk again. 

Milk differs extremely in various 
creatures, according to their diet, their 
conltruftion of body, and the particu- 
lar flru'fture of thofe parts in which 
it is formed. 

The firfl and great end of nature In 
the produflion of milk, we have fhewn, 
was for the nourilTiment of the young ; 
fhe knows, or to ufe more proper 
words, God, whofc immediate and re- 
gular care in the guidance of the world 
is what we call nature, knows beft the 
ftruflure of tliofe young and tender 
bodies he forms ; and he has accord- 
ingly provided, in the breafts and ud- 
ders of their dams, a nourifhmtns 
fuited to them, 

J » Thus 



M I L 



M I L 



Thus in all creatures, milk is, as 
we have fhewn, the chyle or nutritive 
juice of the part-it s body, formed into 
tUat condition by the reparation of its 
watery parts ; but in fome creatures, 
more o» thofe watery parts are fepa- 
rated, and in others fewer, accord. ng 
to the Ariifture o» tliofe velRls ; 
and it muff be accorriing to what 
we fee of their food, that in fome 
the chyle comes more watry to thofe 
gland'j tliat feparate it, than it does in 
others : \r!iy otherwife fhould it be, 
that the milk of the cow fhould be fo 
rich, and that of the afs fo poor, when 
both eat the jrafs of the fame pafture. 

Let not any be furprifcd at the call- 
ing aflRs miik poor in comparifon of 
cows, ircm an opinion that it muft be 
richer, becaufeof the ufe phyficians 
make of it to rellor3 decayed conditu- 
tions : it is becanfc it is poorer they 
prefer it, for the flomach in thofe per- 
sons ii not able to bear the richer milk 
of the cow. 

Accordirc; therefore to what we fee 
in nature, it is plain that the different 
conftrnftion of body, and different fa- 
bricki ofthe vefTe s formed fcT fepara- 
ting and preparing milk, occaficn that 
liquor to be richer in fome and poorer 
in others. 1 his is all the real difFer- 
ence between the milk of cne creature 
and that of arother: having premifed 
this, we rtiall proceed to ccnfider, fepa- 
rately. thofe feveral kinds that any 
way come under the farmer's confider- 
ation. 

Thefe are principally four; the cows, 
theartes, the goats, and the fheep : a 
fifth might he added, for the milk of 
the mare is ufed in fome places; but 
the firl> named kind is the great and 
principal concern cf the farmer, and 
the fupport of the dairy. 

Nothing can be more rational than 
llie giving fuch milk as afTes, and any 
Other kind that can be borne upon the 
ftomach, as a rertorative : for we have 
Xhewn already, th>it milk is only chyle 
under a particular form ; therefore, 
when the rtomach will bear it, it is 
nourifhment ready formed, and .*it for 
immediately mixing with the blood, to 
anfwer all the purpofcs of life. 

This is properly a method of reflo- 
ring nature : it is coming in to her af- 
fiflance when file is not able to furnifh 
nouri.ainient, by bringing her that of 
fome other animal ready formed, to 
fupplf the place. 



A. to the preference of afTcs m'llk 
aBove that of the cow, in the relief of 
of human kind, tht! reafon is (hewn in 
nature. Let the milk of our own fpe- 
cies b; compared with t!iat of a cow, 
and that of an afs ; and the afTcs milk 
will be found to reftmblc it much 
more than the other. 

Cows milk is in general by much the 
richeilof all the kinds wc know, and 
the mod profitable : iisftveral produ£ts 
in butter and cheefe, being, like its na- 
tural condition as milk, preferable to 
thofe of all others, not only in quality, 
but in quantity : two articles which, 
when they concur, as they do perfedly 
in this inllance, conftitutc the higheft 
ufe and value to the owner. 

The milk of the cow isfuppofedto 
vary according ft the colcurcf the Ikinj 
but this is an idle obfcrvation. There 
is an old faying among the farmers, 
that red cows give the befl milk ; and 
another, that black cows brmg the 
belt calves : but we can, from fair trial, 
and repeated experience, affure our; 
readers that there i.s not In the leafl 
truth in ei:her of thtfe maxims : he is 
to look upon them as old wives tales, 
and no otherwife. We have feen as 
much and as good milk from black 
cowi, as ever produced from red; and 
we may call every butcher to witnefs, 
that the value of the call is not in the 
leaft dependent upon the colour of the 
cow. See Cow. 

Milkappears lo bea vegetable juice, 
with littie cf an animal nature. 

New milk mi.xes uniformly with 
common water, the mineral chaly- 
beat waters, wines, and malt liquors 
that are not acid, weak vinous fpirits, 
folutions cf fugar-, foaps, and neutral * 
faltsj but not with oils expitfTtd or 
dif^illed. Acids, both mineral and ve- 
getable, coagulate it; as alfo do fixt 
and volatile akalies, and highly refli- 
fied fpirit of wine: the curd made by 
acids is refolved again by alcaline li- 
^fluors, as that made by akalies like* 
wife is by acids. Neutral f.ilts, nitre 
in particular, p.eferve it from coagula- 
ting fpontaneoufly ; and iikewife render 
it lefs eafily coagulable by acids. 

The human milk is the fweeteft of 
thefe liquors, and that of aiTes next 
to it: this lad isihemcf^ dilute ot them 
all : on fuffering it to coagulate fponta- 
neoufly, the curd fcarce amounted to 
two drams from twelve ounces, whilfl 

that 



M I L 



M I L 



ihjit of cows rr.ilk was five times as info fine light flakes ^which fwim In the 
ir.Mch : the coaguliim of afles milk, ferum 5 tliat ot «:oats milk ccocrcto 
Cvtn when mads by acids, lorms only into more compadl inaffej wt.ich fink. 



Upon evapo- 
ratinj; twelve 
ounce:i of 



There remained 
of dry matter 



From which water extrafted a fweet 
faiine fuhilanct, aniounting, wheo 
exficcaicd, to 

drams 



Cow a milk 
Goats milk 
Human nvlr 
Aflesmilk 



S 



The faline fubftancff ob^ained from fpring and fummcr, which is the befl 



afles milk was white, an ' fweet as fu- 
pir; thofe of the others brown or yel- 
low; and cor.ftdetably lefs fweet; that 
of cows miik, the leall fvvee: of all. 
It appears therefore, th.at afles milk 
cont.«ins m-?re icrum, and much more 
cf a faccharine falir.e matter, than 
thofe of cows and goats ; and that the 
two latter abound moft with uniftuous 
grofi m.itter : hence thefe are found to 
be mort nutritious, whilll the firll 
jjroves moit effectual as an aperient 
and detergent. 

The iPfpiiTated refiduum of milk, 
dige(ted with about as much water as 
was wafted in the evaporation, yields 
an cltsant kind of \. hey, more agree-- 
able in taile, and which keeps btttcr, 
than that made in the common man- 
ner. This liquor promotes the natural 
fecretions in general, and if its ufe is 
duly continued, doe-: good f'rvice in 
f;orbutic, and other difordcrs, proceed- 
ing from thick phlegm and obilrud^i- 
ons of the vifcera. 

Tbere areconfiderable diffsrences in 
the milk of the fame animal, according 
to its different aliment. Diofcordeis 
relates, tliat the milk of goats, who 
fed on the fcammony plant and fpurgee, 
proved cathartic : and examples are gi- 
ven in the Ada Haffnienfia of bitter 
milk from tlie animal havingeatworm- 



fcafon for the dairy, is between five 
and fix in the morning, and fix and 
fevcn in the evening ; and though nice 
and curious houfewivcs have a third 
hour between them, as between tvcelve 
and one o'clock in the afternoon ; yet 
the better experienced allow rot there- 
of, faying, that two good meals of 
v.Uk arc ever better than three bad ones. 
In performing the work itfelf, the wo- 
man muft fn on the near fide of the 
cow, gently at nrd handU and flretch 
I'.er dug?, and moillen them with milk, 
that they may yield out the miik ths 
better, and with lefs pains ; neither 
mu^t fhe fettle herf«lf to milK, norfijc 
her pail firm to the gro. nd, till (he fee 
the cow iland firm and fure; but b« 
ready, upon any motion cf the cow, 
to fave her pail from over- turning: but 
when fhe fees ill things anfwerable to 
i.c-rdefires, fhe fhali then milk the cow 
boldly; and cefilt not to ftretch and 
flrain her teats, til! rot a drop more 
of milk will come from her, it being 
the worll point of houfewifery imagin- 
able to leave a cow half milked; for 
befides the lofs of tiie milk, it is the 
only way to make a cow dry, and ut- 
terly unprofitable for the dairy : nei*- 
ther fhould the milk-maid , while at 
licr work, do any thing rafhly or fud- 
denly to affright thecow,or mate her ; 



wood. It is a common obfervation, but as fhe comes gi^rtly, fo with all 
that cathartics and fpiritucus liquors genilcnefs to depart. 



given to a norfe affeft the child: and 
that the milk of animals feeding on 
green h rbs, is much more dilute than 
whsn tliey are fed with dry one- . KcfF- 
man carries this poinrfo far as to di- 
rsift the afs (the animal, whofe milk 
he in all cafss prefers) to be dieted ac- 
cording to the difcafe which its milk is 
to be drank for. 

MILKING. The befl and mofl 
eommended hor.rs for Alu'iir^ are, in 



iMlf.K VETCH, Liquorice vetch, 
wild liquorice. 

Bafiurd Milk Vetch. See BaS- 

T .". R D . 

MILKWORT. {PoIyg<:la.'\ Thisll 
a perennial plant, growing wild in 
many parts of EnelanH. There are 
fevcral fpecies of this plant kept in far- 
dens, which are natives of France, 
Autlrij, and America. 

r.'iLLET, {Milium.'] This Praia 



J^ 



deed, but two in the day j that in the was originally brcu^ot from the eafiern t/\i/t/c 



M I N 



M O A 



countries, where it is ftill greatly cul- 
tivared, from whence we arc furnifheil 
annually with this grain, which 'n, by 
many pcrfons gi eatly elleemed lor pud- 
dings, Izc. 

It muft he fown the beginning of 
April upon a warm dry foil, but not 
too thick, becaufe thefe plants divide 
into feveral branches, and (hould have 
much room ; and wiien they come up, 
they (hould be cleared from weeds; af- 
ter which tiiey will, in a fhort time, 
jjet tli« belter of them, and prevent 
their future growth. In Augull thefe 
feeds will ripen, when it mult be Cut 
cJown and beaten out, as is praflifed 
for other grain ; but when it begins to 
ripen, if it be notprote^ed from birds 
they will foon devour it. 

MILL MOUNTAIN. Sa Purging 
Flax. 

MILT-PAIN. Is .1 difeafe in hogs, 
p'ocecding from greedinefs of eating 
mails, and is known by their reeling 
and going on one fide ; to cure which, 
give him the juice of wormwood in a 
little honied water. 

MILTING. Is an evil in hearts, 
arifing from a blow, fi-c. The figns 
whereof are, that they will lay them- 
felves down, rife again prefently, and 
cannot relt, hut fit in pain : The cure 
»s,!to take llone pitch, pound it fniall, 
and blend the fame with ale, falTron, 
pepper, and ^ive it him, and walk him 
a little after it. 

MILT-VAST. 5rt S?L EENwoRT. 

MINT, {Mentha.] The leaves of 
mint have a warm, roughifh, fome- 
v'liat bitteri(h tafte; and a itrong, not 
cnpleafanr, aromatic fmell. Their 
virtues are thofe of a warm ftoma- 
cl»ic and carminative-, in lofs of appe- 
tite, nauft^: continual retchings to 
vomit, and (as Boerhaavc exprclles it) 
almcfl paralytic weakneffes of the ito- 
irach, there are few fimples perhaps 
of equal efficacy. In colicky pains, 
the gripes to which children are fub- 
jetf, dycenteric3,and otherkindsof im- 
moderate fluxes, this plant frequently 
does good fervice. It likevi^fe proves 
beneficial to fundry hylieric cafes, and 
affords an ufeful cordi.il in languors 
and other weakneffes confequent upon 
delivery. The bell preparations for 
thefe purpofes are, a rtrong infufion 
made from the dry leaves in water 
(which is mud) fuperior to one from 
t-he green heib; or rather a tin^urc or 



extra^ prepared with rectified fplrit. 
Thefe portef^ the whole virtues of the 
mint : the elfential oil and diflilled 
water contain only the aromatic part j 
the exprelfcd juice only the artringcncy 
and bitternefa, together with the mu- 
cilaginous fub(\ance common to all 
vegetables. 

It ib propagated by parting the root* 
in the fpring, or cuttings, during any 
of the fummer months. 

There are fome people who are very 
fond ofmintfallad in winter and fpring, 
in order to obtain which, they take up 
the roots before Chriflmas, and plant 
them upon a moderate hot-bed clofc 
together, covering them with fine 
earth an inch thick, and cover the bed 
cither with mats or frames of glafs. 
In thefe beds the mint will come upHn 
a month's time, and be foon fit to cut 
for that purpofe. 

When the herb is cut for medicinal 
ufe, it fhould be done in a vary dry 
feafon, juft when it is in flower; for 
if it ftand longer, it will be not near fo 
handfome, nor fo well tafted ; and if 
it be cut when it is wet, it will change 
black, and be little worth j'this Ihould 
be hung up to dry in a fViady place, 
where it may remain until it be ufed. 

Water Mint. \_Miniha yljuaiica.^ 
Horfcminl. 

IJoife MiKT. 5« Horse Mint. 

Pepper-MjyT, See Feppirmint. 

Cj.'i Mint. Sft C.\TMiyr. 

MISl.ETOE, [Vifcu!.] This is a 
burtiy plant, growing,on the trunk and 
branches of different trees : that met 
with on the oak is generally preferred, 
perhaps on account of its being the 
mod rare. It may, however, be pro- 
pagated by art.on any trees by rubbing 
the berries againft the bark. 

MIST. A meteorjConfiftingof grofa 
vapours floating near the furface of tlic 
earth. 

The blui/h mift, which we fome- 
times fee on our fields and pallures in 
a morning, though often innocent, yet 
has been in fome places found to be the 
adlual caufe of murrain, and other fa- 
tal difeafes among the horned cattle. 

MITHRIDATE MUSTARD. See 

M V 3 T A R D . 

MOAR-LOVRE. A term ufed to 
exprcfs a peculiar diftemperature of - 
corn, generally comprehended under 
the common term of a blijjit. In this 
cafe ihc earth finks away froin the roots 



M O L 



M d L 



•f the corn, ar.d liavcs the plant Aand- 
ing in great p^rt above ground with 
naked roots; thefe being too weak to 
fupport tlic l\alks, the plants tall, and 
the ears become light. This i:> a dif- 
temperature peculiar to corn growing 
on light and loofe lands. 

The i-eme3yTs this: turn .1 (hallow 
furrow ag^init the row's, wiicn they 
are ftrong enough to bear it, and the 
mould is fine kiid dry ; the motion of 
the Itaiks wi:ii the wind will draw in 
(his loofe powder, and it will fprcad 
itftll equally among all the rows, fettle 
about the roots, and cover them. 

MOCK. ORANGE. A fpccies of 
the Syringa. 

MOCK. PRIVET,] PbiUjrea.] There 
are feveral fpecies oJ this plant which 
are evergecn Ihrubs, flowering in 
March, The propagation is by feed, 
fown in autunr,n, or by layers in au- 
tumn or fpring. 

MOLE. Thefe are mifchievous fub- 
terraneous animals. We fee their hilis 
in paftures, where they work under 
ground at a ftrange rate, and are very 
hurtful i but the damage they do to 
corn is much greater ; and frequently 
comes upon the farmer quite unex- 
peftedly. He knows that the .ints and 
mice will eat the grain when newly 
iowed, and that the llugs will dellroy 
it when jull fhot up; but when tl.cfe 
times are over, he is at reft on thofs 
beads. On the contrary, there is n^o 
time at which the mole may not de- 
flroy his crop. 

This creature, formed for living un- 
der ground, preys upon the roots of 
plants, and is fend, in a particular 
manner, of thofe of corn; butbefide 
the quantity they deftroy by eating, 
they damage a vaft deal more by under- 
mining the ground, It is hardly to be 
conceived what havock one way or 
other a fingle mole will make in a field 
«f corn, or in how little time ; one cf 
thefe creatures will burrow through a 
third part of an acre in a day ; and 
this perhaps at a time when the corn 
is half grown. 

Thcdrieft lands are themoftfubje<^ 
to thefe anmials, but they will get into 
any ; and there is nocreacureof all the 
number to whofe injuries the farmer is 
expofed, ajainlt which it is fo difficult 
to guard. Ther€ is no forcfecing when 
they Nviil come j but it isvery impoit- 



ant to know oftheir being in the ground 
as foon aspolfibk, in order to l+^p the 
deftrudtion. 

The only caution in the fatmer's 
power is to obfervc whether there are 
any there at the time oJ plowing ; and 
if there ; e, he iVto ule every poffibls 
method of deAroying them: if not, 
he is to examine wl)etlier the lands 
nearcft his own every way be inlcAcd 
by them, or clear irom them. 

The Ircer they are the more likely 
he is to be clear ot them ; but t^^re 
is nocertainy from this; lor there are 
titn?s when they %vill come without 
any polfible manner of guefling from 
whence ; and they will fometimes have 
done irreparable mifchief, before it is 
difcovcred they arc in the place. 

The next caution to thi^, 01 knovr- 
ing when to expeft them, is the de- 
Itroying them when found. They are 
a very defcncelefs creature, and not 
very cunning. Their only fecurity is 
the being hid under the furface ; and 
they betray themfelves in that retreat 
by the manner of their working. 

The hulbandman, whofe crop is 
fufFcring by them, is to look for t.he 
tracks where tJiey have gone ; and 
thefe he will eafily fee by the different 
colou r of the new turned up earth. 

He is to follow the courfe of one of 
thefe pafTages ; when he has got fight 
of it, he is to dig crofs holes in 
it, and to watch the gomg out or com- 
ing back of the mole. And where- 
ever it is casing, to ftrike it through 
with an iron inflrument made for that 
purpcfe. The traps for catching them 
are zlfo common, cheap, and of a 
plain ftruftu.'-e. Indeed the defiruc- 
tion of this creature is fo cafy, and fo 
many are ready to undertake it at a 
trifling price^ that the caution we firil 
f^ave is tFe moft important ; which is, 
the finding as foon as pofTible where 
they are growing mifchievous. 

In fome pl.ices the farmers content 
themfelves with drivit>s them out of 
their fields ; and this is to be done by 
fmoaking ti.tm, as other creatures of 
a leflTcr kind are deftroycd. 

To this purpofe they open their 
pafTages in feveral places, and burn 
heaps of ftraw and foms brimitons. 
This will drive the moles out of a com 
field fpecdliy enough ; but this is not 
a fafe or eligible method. It is on!y 
fending 



M O L 



M O S 



fending them out oi" one's own ground 
into pne's neighbours, who may in 
the funic manner drive them back 
again. This is only a temporary relief j 
and there is none wifj or cffeftiial but 
their deftrufJion, 

MOLTEN GREASE. A fat or oily 
difcharge with the dung, which arifcs 
from a colliquation, or melting down 
of the fat of the hoifc's body, by 
violent exercife mvery hot wcatlier. 

It is always attcnfled with a fever, 
heat, reftlelihefs, ftarting and trem- 
b''"5 » great inward fickntfb, (hortnefs 
of breath, a.d fometimci with the 
fympioms of a pleurify. Hk dung 
will lie extremely greafy, and he will 
f?!! into a fcouring ; his blood will 
have a thick (kin of fat over it when 
cold, of a white or yellow iius, but 
chiefly the latter ; the congealed part, 
or fcdiment, is commonly a mixture 
of hze and preafe, which makes it fj 
extremely flippcry, tlut it will not 
adhere to the .fingers, and the fmall 
portion of ferum feels alfoflippery and 
clammy. The horfe foon lofes his 
fleih and fat, which probably is dif- 
folved and abforbed into the blood j 
and thofe thatfurvive this fliock com- 
monly grow hidebound for a time, 
their legsfwelling both before and be- 
hind, and continue in this itate till the 
blood and juices are redlined ; and if 
this is done notefFe<£lualiy,the farcy, or 
fogieobitinatefurfeit, generally follows 
very difficult to remove. 

It the firfl place bleed plentifully, 
and repeat it two or three days fuc- 
ceffively in fmaller quantities ; two or 
three rowels (hoi.:.'d alio be immedi- 
ately put in, and cooHng emollient 
cJyfters daily thrown up, to abate the 
fever, and dr^in off the greafy matter 
from the intcftines. By the mouth 
give plenty of warm water, or gruel, 
with cream of tai tar, o r nitre , to dilute 
and attenuate the blood ; which in 
tills cafe is greatly difpofed to run into 
grumes, and endanger a total Aagna- 
tion. 

When the fever is quite gene off, 
and the hnrfe has recovered his ap- 
petite, gentle aloetic purees; (h>-uld he 
given once a week, for a mDOth or fix 
weeks, in order to bring down the 
fwelled legs ; but if the purgative in- 
grcf.'enldots not exceed haUai ounce, 
or f:x drams Oi line aloe^, it only opens 
the belly gently j and, with other medi- 



cines joined with it, palTes into the 
blood, a6is as an alterative, and ope- 
rate* both by urine and perfpiiation ; 
a& will appear by the horfc's haling 
]>lentifully i and the kindly feel of his 
/kin. To this end give the fc>IJowing, 
which, repeated for fome time, will 
intirely remove this diforder. 

Take of fuccotrinc aloes fix drams, of 
gum-guaiacurn powdered half an 
ounce, of d:aphoretic antimony, 
and powder of myrrh, each two 
drams : make into a ball with fyrup 
buckthorn. 

Or it may be prepared with qn ounce 
of aloes, fix dram^ ot diapente, and a 
fpoonful of oil ot amber, 

Thofe will fcidom take a hcrfe from 
his bufm.'fs aiiovc two or three day^ in 
a wetk ; neither will he lofe his fielh 
or appetite with them, which cannot 
be obtained by any other roetliod 
of purging, and gives this greatly the 
preference iii m^ny tales. 

Two ounces of nitre mixed up into 
a bail with honey, and a dram oi cam« 
phire, will alfo be found an excellent 
medicine for this purpofe, as it will 
powerfully attenuate the blood, and 
promote the due fccretions ; to which 
end itlhould be given every day for a 
forc;iight or three weeks, 

MONOPETALOUS. Formed of 
one leat. 

MONEYWORT. See Kerb 

T V/ O P E N C E , 

MONK.EY BREAD, SteSavK 
Gourd. 
MONKSWOOD. 5« Wolf's 

B.ANE. 

Mask's Rhubarb, [Rumex Alpinui . ] 
A fpf cics of the dock. SteDocK. 

MOON'SEED, [Mer,Jfe,„:um.'] This 
is a native ot North America, which 
is propagated by layers and parting ttie 
roots, 

MooK Blind, .?<■« Blind. — 

Mock Wort. SeeHosisry. 

MOSSES, [Af«/«. J The plants of 
this order. 

Moss on Tnes, IS a diftemper of very 
bari confequence to their in^reafe, and 
much damages the truit of the trees of 
our orchards. 

Tlie prefent remedy is the fcrapipg 
it ofFSrom the body and lare;c branches, 
by means of a kind of woe den -knife, 
that will not hurt the bark j or with 
a piece of rough hair-doth, which does 

very 



M O S 



M O S 



very well after a foaking rain. But the 
moft effedlual cure is, the taking away 
thectufe. This is to be done by drain- 
ing off all the fuperiiuous moilture 
from about the roots of the trees, and 
niay be greatly guarded againd in the 
firft planting of the trees, by not fet- 
llng them too deep. 

If trees Aand too thick In a cold 
ground, they will always be covered 
with mofi i and the beft way to re- 
medy the fault, is to thin them. When 
the young branches of trees are covered 
with a long and Ihaggy mofs, it will 
utterly ruin them ; and there is no 
way to prevent it, but to cut off the 
branches near the trunk, and even to 
take ofT the head of the tree, if ne- 
ceflary, for it wiil fprout again j and 
if the caufe be in the mean ti;rie re- 
moved by thinning the plantation, or 
draining the land, the young (hoots 
w{H continue clear after this. 

If the trees are covered with mofs, 
in confequence of the ground's being 
100 dry, as this will happen from either 
extreme in the foil, then the proper 
remedy is, the faying mud from the 
bottom of a pond or river, pretty 
thick about the root, opening the 
ground to fomc dlftance and depth to 
let it in j this will not only cool it, and 
prevent its jiving growth to any great 
<]uantity of mofs, but it will alio pre- 
vent the other great mifchief which 
fruit-trees are liable to in dry grounds, 
which is, the failing off of the fruit 
too early. 

Moss. A namegiven to moory or 
boggy gounds, in many parts of Eng- 
land. Thefe forts of land confilt of 
a turfy furface, below v/hich is a 
black, moift, fpongy earth, which 
being dug up with fpades, almoft in 
the form of bricks, and-dried, is what 
they call peat, and Is ufcd ai fuel in 
feveral parts. 

The ftjorteft method of all for the 
improvement of mofs, it i!;e ground 
bcdcfigned or/iy for grafs, and its fj- 
tuation be fuch as admits of it, is this : 
firil drain the mofs, and if there be 
heath upon it, burn thatofr,and make 
iiitUriice even. Then make a dam 
4t the lowtfl part, and a iluice, and 
work the water upon it through the 
winter. Thejnud which comes with 
the land flood will bring a ftne fward 
upon iti» two or three vears, and be 
Vol. IJ. 



afterwards a yearly manure j fo thaf it 
Will bear ^nual cutting, and, betides, 
be good pai^ure for cattle, after the 
fward is become ftrong enough to hear 
them. 

Mr. Grxme found that the improve- 
ment of mofs may be endangered by 
draining it too much j for his crops 
were beft where the furface of the 
water in the furrounding ditches was 
not above three feet lower than th« 
level of the mofs. It will, undoubt- 
edly, be a vaft advantage to an im- 
proved mofs, if the farmer is ableto 
flood it at proper times, by means of 
a fluice in the loweft part of the fur- 
rounding ditch, as mentioned before. 
This will grently promote the growth 
of plants ; but Ihould be ufed with 
the caution of not letting the water 
remain too long at a time upon the 
ground, becaufe, tliough there will be 
no danger of its re-converting the foil 
into a bog folong as there are channels 
to carry it off, it will be apt to chill, 
and thereby hurt the plants. 

MOOR. iS.'f B o G a n d Mar/J.y Lant), 
MOTHER 0/ THYME. See7hywe. 
_ MOTHERWORT, [Cardmca .]T\ns, 
is common in wafte places, and found 
in flower the greateft part •fthe fum- 
mer. The leaves have a|bitterifli ta<le, 
and a flrong difagreeable (mell : they 
are fuppofed tobeufefulin hyftericdif- 
orders, and likewifeto promote urine. 
MOULD. Earth', foil, lo3iT7. The 
goodncfs of a mould for the purpofes 
of agriculture and gardening, &:C. may 
be known, according to Mr. Miller, 
by the fight, fmell, and touch, j. 
Tliofe moulds that are of a bright 
cliefnut or hazely colour, are counted 
the befl : of tliis colour are the beft 
loams, and aifo the beit natural earth -y 
and this will be the 'setter yet, if it 
cut like butvcr, and dots not iticjc 
obftinarely,hut is fliort, tolerably light, 
breaking into fmall cicds, is fweet, 
will be tempered v^ithout crufting or 
chopping in dry weatiier, or turning 
to mortar in wet. Next to that the 
daik grey and miTiit moulds aie ac- 
i;oi;nted the beft: but tU« light and 
dail; i'li-coioured t!:cworfl, fuch as is 
ufudily found on common heathy 
ground : the clear tawney is by ncj 
means to be approved j but that of a 
yellow ilh rrd colour is the worft of all: 
this is cornmonly found in v.ild and 
K walU 



M U 



MUD 



y«r.\e parts of the country, and for 
tlie mofl part produces nothing but 
gofs, fuizc, and fern, according as 
their bottoms are more or lefs of a 
light and fandy, or of a fpewey gravel, 
or clayey nature. 2. AJl land* that 
are good and wholefome, will, after 
rain, or breaking up by tlie fpade, 
emit a good frtiell. 3. By the touch 
we may difcover whether it confilH of 
fubllances entirely erenaceous, orclam- 
my ; or, as it is exprc:li"ed by Mr. 
Evelyn, whether it be tender, fatty, 
-J^tenivc, or flippery ; or more harlh, 
jiitty, porous, or friable. 

MOULDINESS. A term applied 
To bodies whicli corrupt in the air, 
from fomc hidden principle of humidity 
therein ; and whofe corruption (hews 
itfelf by a certain white down, or lanu • 
%o, on their furface, which, viewed 
through a microcfope, appears like a 
kind of meadow, out of which arifes 
•ferbs -nd flowers, fome only in the 
t>'jd, others full blown, and others 
«Jcc3ycd, each having its root, ftalk, 
ft.pd others parts. 

MOUSE-EAR. [^uricu^a Murh.] 
This is a low creeping plant, covered 
vrith a kind of blackifh hairs. It 
jrows wild in dry paflure grounds, and 
flowers in June and July. The leaves 
have a rough fobacrfd tafle : They are 
recommended as aflringents, but prac- 
tVs pays no ree;ard to them, 

MOUSELSCAB. Is a diftemper 
that fometimes attends fheep and young 
ffgjs J and that comes (as ftiepherds 
Sav) where there is great plenty of 
ftirrs and gofs, that by eating of the 
tops and flowers thereof, they prick 
rhelrlips and moufel, whereby thefc 
•forts of fcabs are produced ; which 
are htaled, by anointing them with 
frclh-butter ; but fome take the juice 
of plantain and frefli greafe boiled 
together, wherewith they anoint them. 

MOUND. A bankorfenceof earth, 

MOW. The pile or colledion of 
corn in the Araw, placed in a bay of a 
barn. 

MOW-BURNT. Over-heated In 
the mow for want of being dry. 

MOWING. Cutting down with a 
f.:ythe, which inllrument goes nearer 
the ground than the reaping hook, 
and is applied to grafs in general, and 
CO barley and oats chiefly. 

MUCK. Dirt, rubbifti. 



MUD, properly fo called, is the ftnefl 
earth, wafh'd and worn to a furprizing 
finenefbby theaflion of water. This 
is the condition of fine and pure mud : 
this i> fucii as is drag'd out of the bot- 
toms of rivers, where it has been 
many years collefting, and where fand 
and all other foulneiTcs whatfoever are 
thoroughly walh'd from it. 

Mud, in fome of its properties, re- 
fembles marie. It is the fofteA,>Jat- 
te(l, and melloweft of all earthy 
fabrtances after that ; and like marie 
it breaks with the leaft rains, and 
crumbles away : fo far they are alike, 
as alfo in giving great fertility : but 
marie is a particular fubAance, and 
luis a lading quality of enriching land, 
whereas mud is only mould in a par- 
ticular form, and its effeft is of no 
great continuance, „ 

The next to the mud of rivers Is * f^*" 
that of ponds : but this is lefs pure yy//i 
and fine ; it is often clayey, and ge- /^/^z 
nerally has fome mixture of fand. 

The lall kind to be named is, that 
mud wliich is thrown up in the clean- 
fing of ditches. This is the pooreft 
and word of all : but even the worfer 
forts are not to be rejefted or defpifed ; 
for they have their particular ufes, 
which the very fineft would notanfwer 
fo well. 

The mud of ditches, efpeclally thofe 
by road fides, is full of grit and fand 
blown in with the duft : it is fhort 
enoughjibut wants mellownefs. 

The ifirfl thing the farmer is to do 
in thefe matters, is like what he Is to 
do in refpeft of his marie. He muft 
learn to diftinguifh thefe three kinds 
of mud by the names of river mud, 
pond mud, and ditch mud ; and then 
confider, from their nature and from 
experience, what foils each of them 
will feverally fuit. 

As marie is moft ufed on plough'd 
lands, mud i;^ mofl frequently laid on 
paflure and meadow grounds. But this 
need not be eftablifhed as an univerfa} 
rule. We have feen how marie may 
be ufed with advantage on pafture 
grounds; and mud will alfo help many 
corn lands. 

Marie is commonly ufed alone, and 
mud with other Ingredients ; but in 
fome indances marie may be mix'd 
alfo ; and in feveral cafes mud may be 
beftufed alone. 

Frcm 



MUD 



M U L 



Fretn the different nature of the mud 
it is qualified to anfwer different pur- 
fofes. River mud it proper to give 
fertility, and nothing elfc : for its rich- 
nefs is all its cliarafter. Pond mud 
will enrich, and at the fame time pive 
a body to the foil from the clay it ufu- 
ally contains ; and ditch mud, though 
it will lefs enrich, will fervc better than 
any to break a toush land. 

When mud is to he laid on a plow'd 
land, this is ufually the kind. 

From the confideration of their na- 
ture, the farmer will be led to a ge- 
neral notion of their ufe, and the lands 
to which they are fuited. Thus the 
river mud is proper for meadows and 
paffures of a mellow foil, that want 
nothing butarecruitof thatfine mould, 
which the feveral growths have waited 
and drawn forth ; pond mud is beft 
where the foil is too light and crum- 
bly ; and ditch mud is preferable to 
both on a clayey ground. 

Mud, efpecially that out of rivers, 
has this particular quality, that it 
mixes in a favourable manner %vith the 
finer part of dung. This we have ob- 
ferved feveral times in meadows. After 
having given them afprinklLng of mud 
and dung mix'd together, and a few 
fhowers, falling on the ground, the 
flrawy part has been wafhed clean, 
and nothing but that remaining the 
mud and the rich part of the dung be- 
ing wholly gone down into the land : 
and the next crop has fufficiently 
found their effefts. 

People who ftudy the growth of 
plants, talk greatly of the value of 
virgin earth, that is, earth on which 
nothing ever grew. River mud is the 
nearefl this virgin earth in its nature 
of any thing whatever. 

We advife the farmer who has dry 
paftures, whether they be of a ftony, 
gravelly, or fandy nature, to ufe this 
manure preferably to all others ; but 
let him obferve the following direc- 
tions ■. 

If the land be entirely of a loofe 
nature, let him ufe the pond mud , 
mix'd with rich well-rotted dungj and 
Jay it on in a good round quantity. 

If the foil be mellow, and only re- 
quire to be recruited and put in heart, 
after feveral growths that have ex- 
haufted it, let him mix pure river mud 
wit.h the dung of poultry or flisep, aad 



fcatterthis lightly over the ground, A 
very little of thisanfwers tliepurpofe; 
and it is hci^ to ufe a little at a time, 
and repeat it often. 

Iftlie foil be clayey, let him take 
the mud of ditches, and make a mix- 
ture of it with clialk and rotten dung^' 
this, being fpread tolerably thick, will 
break and mellow tlic ground, as well 
as give it warmth and richnefs. 

MUG WORT, [^rarriju.] Thig 
plant grows plentifully in fields, hed- 
ges, and waRe places, throughoct 
England ; and flowers in June. In 
appearance it fomewhat refembles the 
common wormwood : the difference 
moft obvious to the eye is in the 
flowers, thofe of wormwood hanging 
down\vards,whiiil the flowers of mug- 
wort ftand ereO:. The leaves of this 
plant have a light aromatic fmell, ani 
an herbaceous bitterifh tafte. They 
are principally- celebrated as uterine & 
antihyfteric : infufion of them is fome- 
times drank, either alone or in con- 
junftion withotherfubllances, in fup- 
preffions of theniendnial evacuations. 
This medicine is certainly a very mild 
one, and confiderabJy lefs hot than 
moft others to which thefe virtue? are 
attributed : in fome parts of this king- 
dom, mugwoj t is in common ufe a» 
a pot-herb. 

MULBERRY, [ilibrw.] Thefpecies 
are, ift. The common mulberry,which 
is cultivated for the delicacy of its fruit. 
It grovs'i naturally in Perfia, from 
whence it was firlt brought to the 
fouthern parts of Europe, but is now 
become iommonin every part of Europe 
where the winters are not fevere } for 
in the northern parts of Sweden theie 
trees will not live in the open air ; 
and in feveral parts of Germany they 
are planted againft walls, and treated 
in the fame way as the Peach, and 
other tender fruits, in this country, ad, 
Virginia mulberry, branching li.ke the 
nettle-tree, having very large leaves. 
This tree grows to the height of thirty 
or forty feet. It fends forth many 
large branches ; and the bark of the 
young (hoots is of a blackifli colour. 
The leaves are larger than the common 
mulberry, and rougher, though in 
other refpefts they fomewhat refemble 
them. It produces plenty of katkin*, 
infhapelike thofe of the birch-tree; 

ATtd Uic female A^vfsis arc fucceei'sd 



M U L 



M U L 



by » Jarkreddifh fruit. This is a very 
ftarcc plant at piefcnt, notwitliAand- 
ing it bears the feverity of our climate 
CXtremrly well. 3d. Mui'nerry wilh a 
white fruit. Tiiis tree will giow to a 
Urge fize, and is very proper for walks 
and avenues, or for clumps or Aand- 
artls, either infields or parks. The 
leavci are of a clear light green, and 
the fruU is of a paler colour than any 
of the other forts, v^fhich makes it take 
the nan.eof the white mulbeiry. This 
tree pofTsflcs the peculiar property ef 
breeding no vermin, either when grow- 
ing or cut down ; neither does it har- 
bour any caterpillar, the filk-worm 
excepted. This fpccies is cultivated for 
lt» leaves in France and Italy to feed 
filk-worms ; and, when rai fed for that 
ufe, the tree fliould not be fuffered to 
grow tall. The leaves fhonld be /horn 
off together with the tender twijrs, 
which injures the plant much lefs than 
pulling them by the hand. This kind 
(hould be raifed from feeds procured 
from the fouth of France or Italy. 
4th, Mulberry with a green fruity 
whofe wood dyes a fulphur colour, 
Furtick wood. This tree is better 
known by the title of Fuftick, which 
is g iven to the wood, than by its fruit, 
which is of no eftimation. It grows 
naturally in mort cf the iflands in the 
Well-Indies, but more plentifully at 
Campeachy, where it abounds greatly. 
This wood it one of the commodities 
exported from Jamaica, where it grows 
in greater plenty than in any other of 

tlieBritilh iflands. This tree, in 

the countries where it grows tjaturalty, 
rifes to the height of fixty feet and up- 
ward. The bark is of a light brown 
colour, with fome fhaliow furrows. 
The wood is firtti, folid, and a bright 
yellow. It fends out many branches 
on every fide, covered with a white 
bark, and garnifhed with leaves about 
four inches long, which are broad ac 
their bafe, and indented at the foot- 
ftalk, where they are rounded ; but 
one fide is broader th.nn the other, 10 
that they are oblique to the foot-llalk ; 
thefe diminifli gradually, and end in 
acute points ; tiiey are 1 ough like thofe 
of the common Mulberry, of a dark 
green, .indltand upon fhortfoot-ftalks. 
Toward the end of the youn? branches 
cofDc out fhort katkins of a pale her- 
'baceous colour j and in other parts 
oj" tlisfamc branches the fruit ^s pro- 



ducrd, growing upon fhort foet-Aalks. 
The fruit is as large as a nutmeg, of 
a roundifti form, full of proiuberancefc 
1 ike the common M VI Iberry, green with- 
in and on the outftdc, and of a lufciouk 

fvveet taflewhen ripe. This fpecies 

is too tender to thrive in this country, 
•jnlefs preferved in a warm ftovc. Thert 
are feveral of the plants now growing 
in the Chelfe* garden, which >VerC 
raifcd from feeds fant from Jamaica by 
William WiMiams, Efq j with man/ 
other curious forts, which are niltiveb 
of that ifland. The feeds of this plant 
come up freely on a hot- bed ; an^ 
when the plants arc fit to remove, they 
fhould be each planted in a feparat^ 
fmall pot filled with freft light earth, 
and plunged into a hot-bed of tan- 
ners' bark, and fliaded from the fun 
till they have taken new root. Let 
them be treated in the fam* way ii$ 
other pbnts from thofe hot contries, 
always keeping them in the tan-bed in 
the ftove, where they will make good 
progrefs. Thefe plants retain their 
leaves great part of the ytir in the 
ftove. 5th. Mulberry with han^> 
fhaped leaves and prickly fruit. This 
fort grows naturally in China and 
Japan, where the inhibitants toikt 
paper of the bark. They cultivate the 
trees for that purpofc on the hills 
and mountains, much after the {im'e, 
manner as Ofiers are cultivated here, 
cutting down the young (hoots Jo 
autumn jfor their bark, A few years 
ago there were feveral of thefe trees 
raifedjn the garden of his Grace the 
Duke of Northumberland from feed ; 
and, when removed into the open air, 
bore the weather without flicker. This 
plantmakes very Arong vigorous (hoots 
but fecms not to be of tall growth, 
for it fends out many lateral branches 
from the root upward. The leaves are 
large, fome of them are entire, others, 
are deeply cut into three, and fome 
into five lobes, efpecially Vp-hile the 
rree^ are young, dividing in form oT a 
hand. They are of a dark green, and 
rough to the touch, but of a pals 
[(••ef n, and fomewhat hairy on their 
unrter fide, falling off on the firft ap- 
pvoach of froft in autumn, asdothpfe 
cF tht common Mulberry. The def- 
cription v.^hich Kaempf?r gives pf rhr 
fruit is, that they are a little larger 
t^an p?a% fmroundcd with )ongp.?r- 

ole 



M U L 



M U L 



pie hairs, are composed of acini or 
protuberances, aod, when ripe, change 
to a black purple colour, ;ind aie full 
©r fwcet juice. 6th. I ndia Mulberry. 
This kind grows naturally in India, 
where it becomes a large tree. It hath 
i foft, thick, yellowilh bark, with a 
OUUcy juice like the Fig, which is 
aftrinjent. The branches come out 
Cn every fide, and arc garniftied with 
obloof, oval, leaves, (landing upon 
(hort foot-rtalks. Both fides of thefe 
leaves are equal, but their edges are 
Uneqaally fawed. They ars rough, of 
a dark green on their upper (ide, but 
pale on their under, (landing alternately 
on the branches. The tiowers come 
out in round heads at thefoot-Dalks of 
khe leaves on each fide the branches ; 
they are of an herbaceous white co- 
Jour; the male flowers have four fta- 
wina J the female flowers are fucceed- 
ed by roundifti fruit, which are firft 
green, afterwards white, and when 
•ripe turn to a dark rfd colour. — The 
plants are too tender to live out of a 
Jlove in this country. The Mulberry 
i( of the clafs arid order Monoecia 
Tetrandria, which concainsthofe plants 
ihat have male and female flowers at 
lref>arate diffances upon the fame plant, 
the male flower? having four ftamina. 
)t is generally obferved, that the old 
Mulberry -trees are not only more 
fruitful than the young, but their fruit 
|s much 4arger and better flavoured : 
fo that where there are any of thefe eld 
trees, it is the beft way to propagate 
from them, and to make choice of 
thofc branches which are moft fruit- 
ful. The ufual method of propagating 
thefe trees, is by laying down their 
branches, which will take root in one 
year, and are then feparated from the 
old trees ; but as the mod fruitful 
branches arc often fo far from the 
{round as not to be layed, unkfs by 
raifing of boxts or balkets of earth 
opon fupports for this purpofe, fo the 
better way is to propagate them by 
cuttings, which, if rightly chofen and 
and flcilfully managed, will generally 
fucceed : And in this method there 
will be no difficulty in having them 
from trees at a diltance, and from the 
r.ioit fruitful branches. Thef; cut- 
tings fhould be thefhoots of the former 
year, with one joint of the two years 
wood to t.'teir bottom j the cui'.'.!)^ 



Hiould not be (hortened, but planted 
their full lenfth, leaving two or thre« 
buds above ground. The betHeafen 
for planting them is in March, after 
the danger of frofts is over. They 
fhould be planted ia light rich earth, 
prelfing the ground pretty clofe about 
them; and it they are covered with 
ghfTes, it will forward theii putting 
out roots J but where there is not 
fuch conveniency, the ground about 
them fhould be covered with mofs to 
prevent iu drying ; and where th:: is 
carefully dune, the cuttings will re- 
quire but little water. If the c Jttinge 
fucceed well, and make good Iboots, 
they may be tranfplanted the follcwinjg 
fprifig into the nurfery, where they 
fhould be regularly trained to f^e.Tii by 
fixing down flakes, to which the prin- 
cipal (hoots (hould be faftened ^ ^r.d 
moft of the lateral branches fi.ould 
be clofely pruned off, leaving only r.\t> 
cr three of the weakert to detain the 
fap, for the augmentation of the ftem ; 
for when they are quite diveflcd of 
their fide-ftioots, the fap is mounted 
to the top, fo that the he.ids of the trees 
grow coo faft for the ftems, and be- 
come too weighty for their Jo pport. 
After four years growing in the nur- 
fery they will be fit to tranfplant vihere 
they are to remain } for thefe trees are 
tranfplanted with greater fafety while 
young, than when they are of a large 
fize. 

If the cuttings artf planted in a bed 
fnlly expofed to the fun, it will he 
proper to arch the bed over with hoops, 
that they may be ftiadcd with mats in 
the heat of the day during the fpring, 
till they have put o\Jt roots 5 after 
which, the more they are expofed to 
the fun, the better they %vill fuccted, 
provided the ground is covered with 
mofs or mulch to prevent irs drying; 
for the fun will harden the flioois, 
whereby the plants will be in lefj 
danger of fuffering by the taily frofts 
in 'autumn; for when thefe are in a 
(hady lituation, they are apt to grow 
vigorouHy in fummer; and, being 
replete with moifture, tlie early froils 
in Oftober frequently kill their tope, 
If the following winter proves fevere, 
I hey .ire often killed to their rooD-, 
ana fometimes are entirely deilroyed. 
Mr. Miller recommends the cuttings 
:c bt phT.:x<i tn a het-fcrd ; and he 
; nfcrm* 



M U L 



M U L 



Informs us, thnt he was led to this 
improvement hy obferving fomefticks 
of Mulberry tr. 05 whicli were cut for 
forks, .^nd thruft into the hotbed to 
fatten down the vines of cucumbers j 
which, although rhey had been cut 
from the trie a confiderable time, yet 
many of them put out roots and fhot 
out branches ; <"o that when any perfon 
is in hafte to propagate thefc trees, if 
the cuttings are planted on a moderate 
hot-bed, they will take root much 
foonerthsn in the common ground. 

This treedcligijts to grow in a light 
earth, furh as is in mo/l of the old 
kitchen gardens about London ; for in 
. fome of thofe gardens there are trees 
of a very j^reat age, which are very 
healthy and fruitful, and their fruit 
is larger and better flavoured than that 
of younger trees. Dr. Hunter fays, he 
has never yet feen any of thefe trees 
which were planted in a very ftiff foil, 
or on rtial]ovv ground, either upon clay, 
chalk, or gravel, which have been 
healthy or fruitful j their ftems and 
brandies are generally covered with 
mofs, fo that the little fruit which they 
produce, is fmall, ill tafted, and late 
before it ripens. 

If thefe trees are planted in a fitua- 
tion where they are defended from the 
Ibongfouth &north-wcfl winds, it will 
preferve tlieir fruit from being blown 
off 5 but this fhelter, whether it be 
trees or buildings, (hould be at fuch a 
diftance as not to keep off the fun; for 
where the fruit has not the benefit of 
his rays to difiipatethe morning dews, 
it v/ili turn mouldy and rot upon the 
trees. 

MULCH. A fort of flrawey dung, 
fomewhat mojlt, and not roopdj and 
is uftf;>l in gardening, to p.-ote6l 
_ the roits of new-planted choice 
trees or fhruhs from fevcri frolt in 
winter and from being dried by the 
tierce fjn Cr drying winds in fpring & 
femmer, before they are well rooted ; 
?or both'of which purpofes, it is fpread 
evenly on the forface of the ground 
round the ftem of the tree, at; far as the 
rootsextend, about three or four inches 
thick, but which may be augmented in 
winter if thefiverity of the froft render 
it ncrelfary, 

MULE. The mule has the good 
qualities of the afs without its bad 
ones. It Is a» patient of fatigue, and 



as cupuh^c 61" endurJng hunger as tht 
.tTs ; bur tlier^ it is as tradable at the 
horfe ; and is fufficicntly fw:ft of foot 
for any common fervice. When pro- 
perly bred it it alfo a very handfome 
creature: and it is indeed fo well fitted 
for fo many different fervices, that no'* 
thing can be more worth while than 
raifing them in all places where they 
will thrive. 

The mule is often of the fize of an 
ordinary horfe, fome fixteen or fev^- 
teen hands higli. They are very flrong, 
and very fure-footed. This is the 
quality for which they are valued in 
many parts of Europ?, where tiie roads 
are mountainous and ftony ; tlieywill 
go with the greateft fafety over thefe, 
where a horfe would break his neck. 

They perform excellently alfo in 
draught ; and will travel many weeks 
together with fix or feven hundred 
weight on their backs, witiiout any fign 
of uncommon fatigue. 

The mule is bred from the copula- - 
tion of an afs and a mare. Thofe for 
travel and fhew are bred from very 
large he-afles and Spanish marcs : thefc 
are tall and itately, their colour ufually 
inclining to black, and they are very 
handfome. But a larger and ftouter 
kind are bred from the fame afles, and 
large Flanders mares, Thefc are fre- 
quently feventeen hands highj and as 
large fet as our common coach horfes. 
They arcmucii ftrongerthan horfes of 
th« fame fize, and will bear greater 
hardships, and be fed at much lefs 
expence. At the fame time they are 
msch lefs fubjeft todiftempers. Thefe 
are great recommendations of this crea- 
ture ; and may fhew how much it 
would be to the advantage of the far- 
mer always to have them in his yard. 

They areextreamly fitforthefaddle, 
as well as for thefe laborious employ- 
ments: they are very manageable, and 
walk and trot very cafy. If it fhould 
ever become a cu'tom to breed them in 
England, they may be fuited to the 
fervices for wliich they are defign'd, by 
the choice of proper mares, for they 
take after them, Thofe for the road 
fhould be bred from light made mares ; 
and thofe for cart, plough, and the like, 
from the larger bodied and ftouter 
kinds. 

There is a very fubrtantial reafon 

why we fhould breed thero in England, 

which 



M U L 



M t R 



which is, that fuch a<; are bred in col- 
der countries are always better and 
longer lived than thofe in hot. As to 
the objcftion fome t.ave raifed of their 
being vicious, it is a complaint only 
made where there are but few of them, 
and thofe ill taken care of j for where 
they are common, and are treated in 
the manner as horfes, they are as in- 
offenfive. 

Befide the mule already mentioned, 
which is bred between the afs and the 
mare, and is a light, beautiiui. and 
lively crca'.ure ; there is another kind 
propagated in feme places, raifed be- 
tween the horfe and the rtie-af> j but 
this is an inferior kind. 

It has been obrer%"d, that foals take 
more after the nature of the female 
than the male parent ; and the fame 
thing is fcen very plainly in the breed 
of mules : thofe between the afs and 
the marc, partaking of the nature of 
the mare, being beautiful, lively and 
fwift ; and only inheriting the good 
qualities of the afs, his patience, 
ftrcngth, and perfeverance under fa- 
tigue : while on the contrary, thofe 
bredfroma/iorfe and a fhe-afs, aic of 
the afs kind, dull, heavy, fluggifli, ill- 
made, and fmall. There is very little 
temptation to breed thefe any where, 
becaufe the others may be had with as 
little trouble. Let the hulbandman 
therefore who Ihall think of breeding 
mules among his ftock, taks care that 
he docs not fall into the miftake of 
fuppofing that 'tis the fame thing, fo 
one parent be of tbe afs kind, which 
of the two it is ; he here fees- the dif- 
ference. 

As the mare is to be fuited to the 
fervice for which the mule is intended, 
great care is to be taken to have a pro- 
per afs. He fhould have all the marks 
of a good one, and above all things he 
raufl be large. The fine mules we fee, 
in other parts of Europe, are bred from 
the talleft a/Tes that can be procured; 
which they purchafe at a vaft price, 
andoiit of their finefl mares. The mare 
is put into a hollow place raii'd m and 
the afs has the advantage of higher 
ground in coverir;g. 

We fee in this cricumflarec of the 
mule, the abhorrence of nature to 
monfters, or animals produced of 
mix'd breeds. It was beiiev'd among 
'hs antients, that new fcr:s of favage 



creatures were every yesr produced in 
Atrica, irom the copulation of diftVent 
kind), and the increafe of ihofe mon- 
Iters fo produced J but this is an error j 
/ind we fee in the inlianccof the mule, 
that two creatures of a different, tho* 
like kind, are very difficultly brought 
to copulate; and thiit when they are, 
althp' they produce a creature dif- 
ferent from cither, as liie mule is both 
from the horfe and als, yet that crea- 
ture is not able to propagate its kind 
again. 

The pretence that there i s any where 
a fort of mulci that produce their 
own kind one among another, is as 
falfeas the new fpecici o! rnonfters in 
Atrica. The horfe and afs arc dif- 
ficultly got together, in order to the 
prbdodlion of this animal ; but whea 
that is done, there is no carrying the 
power any larther. 

The mare is always averfe to receive 
the afs, and in the fame manner ibe 
fhe-afs is unwilling to admit the horfe 
to copulation; ir.fomuch that where 
they bteed mules frequently, it is a 
pradice co make the afs colt fuck a 
mare : and the mare foal fuck an ais, 
in order, as is imagin'd, to make thcia 
in fome degree partake of the nature 
of either. This has no real effefi, 
but it is named to fhew how fenfihle 
the breeders of mules are, that thofe 
creatures do not go freely and will- 
ingly togetiier : and it is certain, that 
there is not in nature any power of , 
the mules generating its own kind 
again. 

MULLEIN. [Feriafcum.'\ This a 
met with by road fides, in ditches, and 
amongft rubbiiTi; and flowers in luJy, 
1: is faid to foften tumours, Ciol in- 
flammations, and eafe pains, and Is 
recommended in dirtempers of the 
breafl, coughs, and fpitting of blood. 
There are many fpecies cultivated in 
the gardens of the curious. 

MURE. The cake of the apples 
after prefiing. 
_ MURRAIN, The murrain is prin- 
cipally caufed from a hotdry feafon of 
the year, or rather from fome general 
putrefaction of the air, or from the 
infedion of ether cattie, from carrie 
fmelling to carrion, and licking of the 
bones ; Irom foul food, as overflown 
hay, grafs rotted by the long Handing 
o{ water on it in wet lammers ; v.hicfa 

£arc 



M U S 



M U S 



fcrt of food is much better to rot on 
the i;round than to be made ufc of. 
All thefe things beget an inflammation 
in the blood, and caufe a fwclling in 
(ftc throat, which in little time futfo- 
cates the cattle. 

TheHgosof thisdifeafcare, ahang- 
rnc; down of the head, gum at the 
«ye» as b'tfi asyourfinger,f5oing weakly, 
daggering, the head fwelling very big, 
the breath fhort, the heart beating, 
with rattling in the throat ; and if you 
put your hand into his mouth, and 
tind his breath very hot, his tongue 
fhining, he hath the dillemper very 
ftrong. If he be taken backward, he 
will be very ftift", and his guts rumble 
very much. 

if any of your cattle are infe£led, 
fpeedHy let both fick and well blood, 
and drench them. The follcwing re- 
ceipt we have not had the opportunity 
to try, but it hath bee^i much recom- 
mended ; 

Take diapenteaquarterof anounce, 
dialphera, London treacle, niithridate, 
ar.d rhubarb, cf each the quantity of a 
nut ; of faftrcn a fmall quantity, vvorm- 
v.-ocd, r.i fage, of each an handful, 
and two cloves of garlick : boil all 
tagether in two pints of beer till it 
ccmes to a pint and a half j give it 
lukewarm, when he isfafting; keep 
him very wavm, and give him a mafli 
of ground malt, and let him drink warm 
vater a week, i^ fometimes boiled oats. 
It you can make him fweat lie will do 
V/eli: if one drink will not do, give 
him another three days after. Half tl>e 
fioportion will do for a cow. 
■ ' "' >•, MLSHROOMS, are, by many per- 
/C'/^^ (ons, fuppofed to be produced from 
' ths putrtiaftion of the dung, earth, 
tc. in which they are found , but not- 
witliitanding this notion is pretty ge- 
nerally received amongrt the unthink- 
ing part of mankind, yet by the curious 
raturalifts they are ei^eemed perfeft 
plarKs, tho' their flowers & feeds have 
not ai yet been perfeSfy drfcovered. 

Tlie true Champignon, or Mufh- 
rcom, appears at tint of 2 roundish 
form likt; a button} the upper part 
of which, as aifo the ftalk, is very 
wlkite, but being opened, the under 
part is of a livid fleih colour; but 
the flefliy part, when broken, is very 
white; when thefe are futfered to re- 
:32;n undifturbcd, ibey will grow to a 



large fue, and explicate themfeives al- 
moin to a flatnefs, and the red part un- 
derneath will change to a dark colour. 
In order to cultivate them, if you 
have no beds in your own, or in 
neighbouring gardens, which produce 
them, you fhculd look abroad in rich 
pafturcs during the months of Auguft 
and September, until you find them 
(that being the feafon when they arc 
naturally produced ;) when you fhoui4 
open the ground about the roots of 
the Mufluooms, where you will fin4 
the earth, very often, full of fmall 
white knobs, which are the offsets, or 
young Mufhrooms ; thefe ftiould be 
carefully gathered, preferving them 
in lumps with the earth about them ; 
but'as this fpawn cannot be found i|) 
the pafture, except at the feafon when 
Mufhrocms are naturally produced, 
you may probably find fome in old 
dunghills, tfpecially where there has 
been much litter amongfl it, and the 
wet hath not penetrated it to rot it; as 
likewife by fearching old hot-beds jt 
may be often found ; for thii fpawn 
has the appearance of a white mould, 
fhooting out in long firings, by 
which it may beeafily known, where- 
ever it is met with : or this may be 
procured by mixing fome long dung 
from the ftable, which has not been 
thrown on a heap to ferment ; which 
being mixed with ftrong earth, and 
put under cover to prevent wet getting 
to it, the more the air is excluded 
from it, the fooner the fpawn will 
appear ; but this mufl not be laid fo 
clofe together as to heat, for that will 
deftroy the fpawn : in about two 
months after the fpawn will appear, 
efpecially if thelieap isclofely covered 
with old thatch, or fuch litter as hath 
lain long abroad, fo as not to ferment, 
then the beds may be prepared to re- 
ceive the fpawn : thefe beds fhould be 
made of dung, in which there i$ good 
ftoreof litter, but this fhould not be 
thrown on a heap to ferment, that 
dung, which hath lain fpread abroad 
for a month or longer, is beft ; thefe 
beds fhould be made on dry ground, 
and the djng laid upon the furface ; 
the width of thefe beds at bottoin 
fhould be about two feet and a half, 
or three feet, the length in proportion 
to the quantity of Mufhrooms defired ; 
then lay the dung about a foot thick, 
covering 



g'l V K. J^i u,<. 



M U S 



covering it about four inches with 
llrong earth. Upon this lay more 
dung, about ten inches thick; then 
another layer of eanh, ilill drawing 
in the fides of the bed, fo as to form 
It like the ndf;;: of a houfe, which may 
be done by three layers of dung .ind as 
many of earth. When the bed is 
finiihed, it fhould becovered with litter 
or old thatch, to keep out wet, as alfo 
to prevent its drying; in this fituation 
it may remain eight or ten days, by 
which time the bed v.'iii be in a proper 
temperature of warmth to receive the 
fpawn ; for there Ihould be only a 
moderate warmih in it, great heat 
deftroylng thefpawn, as will alfo wet; 
therefore when the fpawn is found, it 
fhould always be kept dry until it is 
ufed, for the drier it is, the better it 
will take the bed. Mr. Miller fays, 
he had a parcel of this fpawn, which 
had laid near the oven of a ftove up- 
ward of four months, and was become 
fo dry, that he defpaired of its fuccefs ; 
but never had feen any which produced 
fo foon, nor in fo great quantity as 
this. 

The bed beinga proper temperature 
for the fpav/n, the covering of litter 
ikould be uken off, and the fides of 
the bed fmoothed ; then a covering of 
light rich earth, about an inch thick, 
/hould be laid all over the bed, but 
this fliouldnot be wet ; upon this the 
lpa\yn (hculd be thrull, laying the 
lumps two or three inches ifunder ; 
then gently cover this with the fame 
light e£r::), about half an inch thick, 
and put tke covering of litter over tlie 
bed, laying it fo thick as to keep out 
wet, and prevent the hed from drying: 
when thefe beds are made in the fpring 
or autumn, as the weather is in thofe 
ftafons temperate, fo the fpawn will 
tlien take much fooncr, and the Mufh- 
rooms will appear perhaps in a month 
after making : but thofe beds which 
are made in fummer, when the feafon 
is hot, or in winter, when the weather 
is cold, ar': much longer before they 
produce. 

The great iciliin managing of thefe 
beds is, that of keeping them in a 
proper temperature ot moilture, never 
fufFtring them to receive too much 
wet : during the fummer feafon, the 
beds may be uncovered to rccciv. -gentle 
fhowers of rain at proper timts ; and 
in long dry feafons the beds Ihouid be 
Vol. II. 



now and then gently watered, hut hy 
no means fiiffer much wet to come to 
them; during the winter fcaf'n they 
mu't bt kept as dry as poflible, and fo 
clofcly covered as to keep out cold. 
In frolly or very cold wejther, if fome 
wsrni litter fliaken out of a dung heap 
is laid on, it will promote the growth 
of the Mulhrooms ; but this muft not 
be laid next the hed, but a covering of 
dry litter between the bed and this 
warm litter; and as often as the litter 
is found to decay, it fhould he renewed 
with frefh ; and as the cold incredfes, 
thecoveiing fhould be laid (o much 
thicker. If thefe things are obferved, 
there may be plenty of Mnflirooms pro- 
duced all the year; and tiiofe profluccd 
in beds are much better for taSle th.in 
any of thofe which are gathered in the 
fields. 

A bed thus managed, if the fpawn 
takes kindly, will continue good for 
feveral months, and produce great 
quantities of Muihrooms ; from thefe 
beds, when they are deftroyed, you 
ihould take the fpawn for a frefli fup- 
ply, which may be hid up in a dry 
place until the proper feafon of ufing 
it; which fhould not he fooner than 
five cr fix weeks, that the fpawn may 
have time to dry before it is put into 
the bed, otherwife it will not fucceed 
well. 

Sometimes it happens, that beds 
thus made do not produce any Muih- 
rooms till they have Iain five or fix 
months, fo that thefe beds fhould not 
be diiUoyed, tiiough they fliould not 
at firft anfwer exps(f}a:ion; for we have 
frequently known thefe to have pro- 
duced great quantities of Mufhrooms 
afterwa;d, and have continued a long 
time in perfe<ftion. 

MUSK, iAbelmcJckzts.1 This plant 
is a native of the Weit-lndies propagated 
byfcidsfown on a hot-bed, jtnd may 
be treated as the Amaranth. 

McsK llyacim/i. See Htacintm. 

Musk Milon. See Melon, 

Must. New wine or wort before 
it i>i fermented. 

AfUSTARD, ISinapis.l The fpecles 
are, 1. white muitiird ; 2. black muf- 
tard ; 3. Fi'.ld cr Durham muftard. 
The two fir<t fiow- r \\\ June, and the 
feeds iiperi in July and Auguft ; the 
(ther flowers in May, and the feeds 
ripen in Jui e. To fave the feed for 
garden ufe, fow it on an open fpot of 
1' grouud 



M Y R 



M Y R 



f^rcund in Marcli or April, either lliinly 
in drills a foot afunder, or broad-calt 
all over the furface, and let the plants 
run up to <lall<^ and they will furniHi 
_fjpe feeds in Augiift. 

To ralfe the plants for the feed for 
IvTuftard, ihty fhould be fowcd in the 
fprlnj^, any time in March, in fonie 
open rmuiion citlier in a kitchen-g.ir- 
den, or in the open fi(.ld>, where large 
tjiian'.ities are required lor fale ; in 
either cafe, having digged or ploughed 
the ground, then fow the feed broad- 
cafl all over the furface, and rake or 
Jiarrow them in lightly, or fow it in 
fhallow drills a foot afunder. They 
will focn come up, obfcrving, that 
when the plants have four or more 
leaves an inch or two broad, thofe fown 
in the broad-caft way fhould be hoed 
and thinned, leaving them tenor twelve 
inches afunder, and cut up all weeds, 
repeating it once or more if neceffary ; 
alter this the plants will foon fpread 
nnd cover the ground, and fhoot faft 
up to flalks for flowers and feed, which 
will ripen in July or Auguft, and the 
, third probably in June, when the ftalks 
ihould be cut or pulled up, and threfh- 
cd out for ufe. 

Hedge Mustard. Sie Hedge 
Mustard. 

M'ithridate Mustard, [Thlaff>i.'] 
A biennial plant that grows among 
corn, or the (ides of dry banks in many 
parts of England, which dies foon 
after it has perfefted his feeds. There 
are feveral fpecles, annuals and bien- 
nials, cultivated in botanic gardens. 
They nre propagated from feeds. 

Bajiai J MvsT Ann. See Bast ARD. 

Biijla'd Mithridjte Mustard. See 
Bas r ard. 

TrcjcU Mustard. Mithridate muf- 
tard. The feeds have an acrid biting 
tafte like the common muftard. 

MYROBALANS, [Myrobalam.'] 
Dried fruits brought from theEafl- 
Indies J their outward part, freed from 
the flonc. 

Five kinds of myrobalans were for- 
merly direfted as cfficinals ; i. The 
yellow J 2. The chebule; 3. The 
Indian or black j 4. The belliric ; 5. 
TJie emblic. 

All the myrobalans have a low de- 
gree of purgative virtue. They have 
alfoan aflringent quality, difcoverable 
by the tafte, from their ufe among the 



Indians for tanning leather, and from 
their ftriking a black colour with 
chalybeate folutions ; in confequenee 
of this, they are fuppofed to f\rengthen 
the bowels after their operation as a 
cathartic is over. Neverthelefs their 
purgative virtue is fo inconfiderable, 
that pradtiticners have for a long time 
laid them entirely afide in that inten- 
tion j and the college of Edinburgh, 
as well as that of London, have now 
rejefted them from the catalogue of 
officinal fimples. 

MYRRH, [MyrrhaJ] Is a concrete 
gummy- refinous juice brought from 
the cart-Indies, in glebes or drops, of 
various colours and magnitudes. The 
beft fort is of a brown or reddifh yel- 
low colour, fomewhat tranfparent j 
of a lightly pungent, bitter tafte, with 
an aromatic flavour, though not fuf- 
ficient to prevent its proving naufeous 
to the palate ; and a f\rong not dif- 
agreeable fmell. The medica* Cifefls 
of this aromatic bitter are, to warm 
and ftrengthen the vifcera, and difToIve 
thick tenacious juices : it frequently 
occafions a mild diaphorefis, and pro- 
motes the fluid fecretionsin general. 

Hence it proves ferviceable, in lan- 
guid cafes, difeafes arifmg from a 
Ample ina^ivity, thofe female diforders 
which proceed from a cold, mucous, 
fluggifh indifpofition of the humours, 
fupprelTions of the uterine difcharges, 
cacheftic diforders, and where the 
lungs andthorax are opprefl!ed by vifcid 
phlegm. Myrrh is likewife fuppofed 
in a peculiar manner to refift putrefac- 
tion in all parts of the body \ and in 
this light fiands recommended in ma- 
lignant, putrid, and peflilential fevers, 
and in the fmall-pox, in which laft it 
Is faid to accelerate the eruption. 

Reflified fpirit extrafls the fine 
aromatic flavour and bittemefs of this 
drug, and does not elevate any thing o£ 
either in evaporation : the gummy fub- 
ilance left by this menibuum has a 
difagreeable taf^e, with fcarce any 
thing of the peculiar flavour of the 
myrrh : this part difTolves in water, 
except fome impurities which remain. 
In diftillation with water, a confider- 
able quantity of a ponderous effential 
oil arifes, refembling in flavour the 
original drug. Myrrh is the bafis of 
an officinal tindlure, and gives name 
to a compound tin^ure, elixir, pow- 
der, 



M V R 

Jer, and troches. It is an ingredient 
in the aloctic wine or elixir proprietatis, 
the gurti pills, Rufus's pills, ftomachic 
pills, miihridate, theriaca, and tlieriaca 
iidinenfis. 

MYRTLE, [Myrtus.] The fpecles 
are, i. The common mynle, the 
varieties of wiiich aic, the broad. 
leaved Roman, the broad leaved Dutch, 
the orange-leaved Spani/h,thecommon 
upright Italian, Portugal acute-leaved, 
box-leaved, rofemary-leaved, thyme- 
leaved, nutmeg, broad-leaved nutmeg, 
criftated, or cock's-comb, frequently 
called bird's-ncft Myrtle, 

They are all beautiful ever-green 
flirubs of exceeding fragrance ; exotics 
originally of the fonthern parts of 
Europe, and of Afia and Africa, and 
confequently in this country require 
Jhelterof a green-houfe in winter ; all 
of which, though rather of the fmall- 
leaved kind, have their foliage clofdy 
placed, remain all the year, and are 
very floriferous in fummer; and when 
there is a coUeftion of the different 
forts, they aflord an agreeable fource 
of variety with each other ; they there- 
fore claim univeifal efteem as principal 
green-houfe plants, efpecially as they 
are all fo eafiiy raifed from cuttings, 
and of fuch eafy culture, as to be at- 
tainable in every garden, where there 
is any fort of green-houfe, or garden- 
franies furnilhed with glaffes for pro- 
teaing them in winter from frofl ; but 
fome of the broad-leaved forts are fo 
hardy as to fucceed in the full ground, 
againft a fouth-wall and other warm 
expofures all theyear, by only allowing 
them ftielter of mats occafionally in 
feverefrofty weather: fo that a few 
of thefe forts may be alfo exhibited in 
a warm fituation in the fhrubbery : 
obferving, however, all the forts are 
principally to be confidered as green- 
houfeplants, and a dueportion of them 
muft always remain in pots to move 
to that department in winter. 

There arefeveral fpecles of the flove 
temperature, as natives cf the Indies; 
but there are not more than the four 
following forts commonly met with in 
theEnglifli gardens, all of which are 
beauiifulevergreens, with larger leaves 
then the Common Myales and are 
moftly itrong aromatics, 

1. Ceylon white-berried Myrtle, 

2. Pimento, or Jamaica all-fpLcetrfc. 
Tius fpecies is wholly an admirjolc 



M Y R 

fine aromatic, its leaves are remarkably 
fincfcentedj and its fruit is that va- 
luable fpice, Jamaica pepper, or all- 
fpice, fo called, becaufe it is fuppof-.l 
to partake of the odour and tarte cf 
mort other fpices. The tree grows ia 
great abundance In the iiland of Ja- 
maica, whtrj its fruit is made a confi. 
derable br^ncli of trade ; is genera.ly 
gathered a little before it acquiies full 
growth, and dried in tie lun ren cr 
twelve days; it is then packed up riady 
for exportation to Europe. 

3. Dioecious American Myrtle. 

4. Brafilian Inodoros IVij'rtle, 

All thefe five fpecies cf Myrtle are 
exotics of the fliiu'o and tree V'.:a\ 
though in this country, as bein? con- 
fined in pots, the hrgeft of iht-m af- 
fume only the growth of modeiate 
Hirubs. The firll fpecies. Common 
Myrtle, is confiderably the molt noted 
fpecies of the genus in this country j 
where in mort 01 our gieen-houfecol- 
ledlionsoneor otherof the varieties is 
found in tolerable plenty 5 but all the 
varieties of it highly merit notice. The 
other four fpecies are rare in England, 
they however are retained in many 
curious gardens, in the fiovecolleftion, 
more particularly the Pimimto, which 
is a very beautiful odorilercus ever- 
green, and exhibits a fine variety tn 
the ftove at all fcafons : in fliort, all 
the fpecies, both green-houfe and rtove 
kinds, have a pretty effedl as ever- 
greens, and fome of tiie forts fiower 
very ornamentally, particularly of the 
Common Myrtle. 

The propagation of the Common 
Myrtle and varieties is efftded abund- 
antly by flipsorcuttings, alfo by layers; 
but as the former Itrike treely, it is 
the moft eligible method for raifini^ any 
confiderable quantity, as alfo the hand- 
fomefl plants, which may be iirucV. 
either in natural earth, or by aid of 
hot- beds, to brin2 them more forward. 
The young fhoots, either of tlie fame 
or former year's growth, of from about 
two or three to five or fix inches long, 
either flipped or cut off, are the rro- 
per parts for planting; and, as alove 
faid, may be Itruck either in natural 
earth without artificial heat, or by aid 
of hot-beds ; but by the latter you mr.y 
greatly facilitate the rootiiig and firlt 
effort of jrowth. liy either mcthcd 
the work may be petlormed any time 
from March or April uritil Augulf, 
L 2 thoug'i 



M Y R 



M Y R 



though June or July is the moft com- 
mon feafon pradifed, efpecially when 
intended to ufe the ftioots ol the fame 
year, which are generally in prime 
order in July, and often firike freely 
that year without aid oi" hot-beda j 
the young (hoots of the former year 
will alfo often flrike tolerably, t».jeci- 
ally if planted in fpring cr caily in 
fummcr, or by aid of hot-bedi may be 
made to (Irike root readily at any time 
in the fpring cr fummer feafon. By 
aid of a hot bed, however, all the 
forts, both of one or two yea: ; fhoots 
maybe greatly facilitated in rooting : 
a dung hot-bed under common frames 
and lights will do, though a bark hot- 
bed of a Aove, &c. is conficerably the 
moft eligible and effe(flual. and miy 
be readily ufed any time in fnring and 
fummer for this purpofe ; and by which 
afTu^ance vaft numbers of cuttings may 
be (truck with the utmoft facility in a 
ihort time, with but little trouble ; and 
plants thus flruckin fpring or early in 
fummer, may be fo much forwarded as 
to form pretty little plants the fame 
year, and be (it to pot off feparatcly 
early in autumn. We will, however, 
exhibit feparate direflions for both 
methods, i, e. (triking them in na- 
tural earth, and by hot-beds. 

Firft, by (triking them in natural 
earth : we noticed above, that the 
planting might be performed any time 
from March till.Auguft; obferve in 
refpeifl to tliis, that if you would begin 
in fpring, or early in fummer, you mufl 
chufe principally the (hoots of the 
former year ; and if you do not begin 
planting till June or July, l)ut parti- 
cularly the latter month, the young 
flioots of the year will be arrived at a 
p'oper growth, and will root freely. 
Oiferve in chufing the (hoots, either 
of th« former or fame year, to chufe 
th; ftraight clean growth, of from 
about two or tJiree to four or five 
inches length, and as robullas polTible; 
which divert of ;he lower leaves, two 
parts in three of their length, they are 
then ready for planting ; then having 
fome large wide garden-pots, or rather 
flat wide earthen pans, fix inches 
deep, with holts at bottom to riifcharge 
the wet, fuel) as are ufed by the fet- 
ting-gardeners about London, who raife 
profiigious quantities of Myrtie an- 
nually for the fupply of the markets ; 
fill the pots or pans with iighc ri«ii 



mould, in which plant the flips or cut- 
tings, many in each pot or pan, if re- 
quired, putting them in within an 
inch of their tops, and about an inch 
or two afundcr; give directly fome 
water to fettle the earth clofely about 
each plant ; then either plunge the 
pots, &c. in a (hallow garden-frame, 
and put on the glafTes, or under oiled 
paper-frames, or cover each pot or pan 
clofewith a low hand-glafs, which is 
rather the moft eligible for facilitating 
their rooting ; in either method, how- 
ever, obferve to j lunge the pots in the 
earth, and keep them clofe covered 
with thegla(res, Sec. where pradticable, 
to exclude the ai;, for this will pro- 
mote the quick emiflion of roots the 
fame feafon ; remembering to afford 
them occafional (hade from the mid- 
day fun, but if under oiled paper none 
is wanted j and give plenty of water 
three or four times a week at haft, or 
oftener in very hot weather ; thus they 
will be rooted in a month or fix weeks, 
which will appear by their exhibiting 
figns of growth at top j at which period 
inure them gradually to the full air, 
ftill fupplying them duly with water 
during the hot weather, whereby they 
will (hoot in heightj and tbofe planted 
early will often branch out laterally a 
little the fame year, fo as to commence 
pretty little plants by autumn : let 
them remain in the full air until Oc- 
tober, then remove them in their pots 
or pans into the green-houfe, or under 
a good garden-frame for the winter, 
and in fpring the forwardeft in growth 
may be potted off feparately in fmal! 
po:s J but if ratlicr fmall and weak, or 
but indifferently rooted, let them have 
another fummer's growth, and pot 
them out feparately in September or 
fpring following, as it fhall feem pro- 
per 5 managing them as other green- 
houfe (hrubs of fimilar temperature, 
and (hift them into larger pots annual- 
ly, or according as they (hall require. 

For want of frames and glafTes of 
any fjrt to (trike the cuttings under, 
oiled paper- frames may be ufed, which 
may be obtained at an eafy expence, 
and are excellent for ftriking many 
forts of cuttings ; they admit the rays 
of light and heat fufficiently, & at the 
fame time afford fuch agreeable ihadt. 
tr.at no other ;s required, and which ii 
of fuch a nature as greatly to prorooi? 
the rooting of cuttings, 

Bui 



M YR 



M Y R 



But Myrtle cuttings will fomeilmcs 
Urikc in the open gtcund without any 
coverings; and if planted betimes in 
Aimnrtcr, either in poii or pans, as 
above mentioned, and pluneed in a 
fliady border, or the flips planted in 
the earth of fuch a border ot rich 
earth ; and in either method plenti- 
fully fupplied with moifturc, they will 
often root tolerably the fame year, and 
/hoot a little at top ; though rarely 
make fo good plants by autumn as 
thofe forwardtd in the above mr.nner, 
nor near fo (trong as tl^ofe f^ruck in 
the following method by artificial heat. 

By Aid of Hot-beds, either that of 
done, under frames and glafTes, oiled 
paper-frames, or in the bark bed in 
the rtove, &c. but rather the latter ; 
but hy either method the rooting and 
Urn growth of the flips may be greatly 
forwarded ; a bark-bed in particular 
in the ftove, Ac. is the mcft eligible, 
and effrdual for this purpofe, and in 
which vaft numbersof flips orcuttings 
may be readily ftru&k, at any time 
from March until Auguft, both in 
Ihoots of the former year, and of the 
fame year's growth, from three or 
four to five or fix inches long : and 
that thofe Aruck in fpring ard early in 
fummer, will form fine young plants 
for potting off early in the fucceeding 
autumn. However, in default of bark 
hot-beds, one of dung undei glaflVs 
may fuffice; but if furnilhed with 
both, give preference confiderably to 
a bark-bed. 

Therefore being furnifhed -vith pots, 
or rather wide pans, as before direfted, 
filled with fine rich earth, take off a 
quantity of flips or cuttings, the mofl 
robuft fhoots; which if in fpring or 
early in fummer, thofe of the former 
year muft be chofen ; and at a more 
advanced feafon, thofe of the fame 
year will be arrived to a proper growth 
for this purpofe : obferving for cither 
fort to Arip cfi the under leaves, as 
before adviftd; then plant them in 
the pots or pans, as already exhibited, 
give a general watering, and dire€lly 
plunge them in the hot-bed, affording 
occafional flight /hade from the fierce 
fun, and water them frequently i they 
v^ill thus root in a fortnight or three 
weeks, and advance in gro-.vtli j ob- 
ferving to inure them gradually to the 
open air, if the temperature of the 
weather permits, in a iheltercd fitua- 



tion ; or In a frame, if co!d weather ; 
and from thence by deg-ees expofe 
them fflly for the remiindei o( the 
funimei, in a fheliered pLoe, and fup- 
ply them duly with waterin dry weather. 
T!iey will be fine plants b) September ; 
and, as before cb;erved, thofe raifed 
early will be then fit to (.ot off fingiy 
into fmall pots ; and thv latter plant- 
ings will be fit for potiing in fprinj, 
or autumn following J r.-r.ioving tiiera 
all to Aielter towards the middle or 
latter end c O4>oher. 

In ftviki g the cut'ingsby theahove 
methoc', if, asfcon as thsy are planted 
and plunged in the hot-bed, each pot 
or pan is covered clofe with a Lw 
hand-glafs, it will Aill contribute to 
facilitatetheir rooting the moreetTedu- 
ally ; for being clofc covered, it will 
force out roots fconcr, and prevent the 
cuttings from running up weak ; ob- 
ferving, ho'.vever, when they begin to 
advance at top, to remove the gipffes. 

By the above methods of artificial 
htat, in ftriking Myrtle cuttings, you 
may make two or three plantings each 
feafon, where large quantities are 
required ; the fir/t planting in Marcli 
or April, cf the heA iaft year'i fhools j 
the fecond early in June, of ilie fuc- 
ceeding beA ihoots; or about Mid- 
fummer, or foon after, may plant 
fhcots of the year; and in a month 
or fix weeks after, the next beAflioots 
alfo of the fame year will be come 
forward, and of which may be made 
another plantation ; plunging each 
planting in the bark-bed, &c. as above; 
thus may you have three young crops 
advancing indifferent Aages cf growth 
each year in Aore-pans ; fome ready 
for potting ofFfirgly every autumn and 
fpring, whereby a large Aock may be 
always kept up, as is neceffary for thofe 
who raife them for fale, efpecially a- 
bout London, for Covent-garden mar- 
ket, where amazing quantities ate 
brought for fale at all times of tiie 
year, which fell from fix-pence to 
half-a-crown per pot, according to the 
fize and goodnefs of the plants. 

Thofe who propagate large quantities 
of thefe plants annually, fhould al- 
ways keep fome Arong bufhy plants 
for furnifhing flips or cuttings for this 
purpofe. 

Propagation by Layers. ^uch 

plants as are furnifhed with young 
bottom branches or fhcots ficuated 

low 



M y R 



M V R 



low enough for laying, may be layed 
in fpring, in the ufual way ; every 
Ihoot will readily emit roots, and be 
£t totranfplant into feparate pots in 
autumn. 

By Seed. — Thefc may be fowed in 
fpring, in pots of light mould, plunged 
in a moderate hot-bed } they will foon 
come up, and, when two or three 
inches high, pot them off feparately in 
fmall pots ; manage them as the others, 
and probably as they advance in growth 
may difcover fome new varieties. 

With refpeft to the general culture 
of all thefe forts of common Myrtle, 
they fucceed in the open air from May 
until theendof Odober, when remove 
them in their pots to the green-houfe, 
or into a deep garden-frame under 
glaffes, allowing air freely in all mild 
weather, by opening the glaffcs wide ; 
giving water once or twice a week or 
ten days in winter, and every other 
day ai leaft in fummer ; and according 
as they advance in growth, (hiftthem 
into larger pots, as may be neceffary 
every year to one or other of them. 

In training thefe fhrubs, obferve, as 
they naturally branch out all around, 
fo to be feathered quite to the bottom, 
in a beautiful manner, that if you 
defign any fhall form ftandards, with 
bu(hy htadsfor variety, trim off the 
lower fhoots gradually fo as to form a 
flraigbt clean ftem, two or three feet 
high or more, then fuffer them to 
branch out every way at top to form a 
bead : but thofe which are intended 
to be low and branchy quite to the 
bottom, fhould have the lateral flioots 
encouraged nearly in their own way, 
whereby they will be feathered all the 
way from bottom to top, and alTjme 
a more piflurefque appearance. 

Let them afterwards for the mofl 
part affume their own natural growth, 
except when their heads become thin, 
i^raggling, and irregular ; then fhorten 
with a knile fuch flioots as fhall appear 
proper, either in order to force out 
laterals to make good deficiencies, or 
to form regularity. 

Never prai\ife clipping thefe flirubs 
with garden-fhears into globes, pyra- 
mids, &c, as fometimes done ; but 
let all neceffary trimming be perfcrmed 
be the knife, and that only in cafes of 
jrrec;ularity as above, for they always 
appear the moft agreeable when they 
grow nearly according to nature. 



If their heads at any time beeomt 
very irregular, or thin and ftubby, by 
heading down all the branches pretty 
fhort infpring, and fhiftingthem into 
larger pots of frefh mould, with the 
ball of earth about their roots, affor. 
ding plenty of water all fummer, they 
will all branch out again numeroufly, 
and form handfome full heads by ihc 
fucceeding autumn. 

Sometimes when Myrtles are become 
very weak Araggling fhooters, witli 
naked unfightly heads, if headed down, 
as above, in April or May, turned 
out of the pots, and plunged in a warm 
border of rich foil, giving plenty of 
water, they, by fending their fibres 
into the frefh earth, often break out 
with frefh vigour, and become fine 
full-headed plants by the end of fum- 
mer, when they may be taken up 
with balls and potted in frefh earth. 

As the forts in general encreafe in 
fize, (hift them into larger pots. 

The four kinds of Myrtle for the 
ftove, are commonly propagated by 
feeds ; though, when any are pretty 
branchy, it may alfo be tried by layers 
and cuttings. 

By Seed. — This is procured from 
abroad by the dealers, preferved in 
fand, &c. and arrives in fpring, which 
fow as foon after it arrives as poffible, 
in pots of frefh rich mould, and plunge 
them in a bark-bed, they will come up 
the fame feafon ; and, when of two or 
three inches height, plant out in fe- 
parate fmall pots, plunge them alfo in 
the bark-bed, fupply them with water, 
and manage them as other woody 
plants of fimilar temperament. 

By Layers. — The firfl fort in par- 
ticular often branch out low : lay fome 
of the young fhoots in fpring, by 
flit-laying or wireing, &c. plunging 
the pots in which they are layed in 
the tan j they will probably be rooted 
in one year, though it is frequently 
two before they flrike good root, when 
pot them off feparately. 

By Cuttings.— In May or June, cut 
off fome fhort young fhoots from fuch 
of the plants as afford them, plant 
them in pots of frefh compof\, plunge 
them in the bark-bed, and cover them 
clofe with a low hand-glafs, giving due 
refrefhments of water; they will foon 
take good root, the fame year, and 
be fi: to plan; in feparate fmall pots.. 

In 



M U M 

In the general management of tlsefe 
forts, keep them always in the ftove, 
«Ccept about a month in the heat of 
fummer, when they may be trufled 
abroad. Let them ftioot nearly in 
their own way, keeping them, how- 
ever, to upright Items, and fuffer 
their handj to brancli out according to 
nature, except juft reducing very ir- 
regularftioots : give frequent waterings 
in common with other woody plants 
of the ftove department, and ftiift 
them occafionally into larger pots. 

DuUh Myrtle, [Myrka.] Can- 
dleberry Myrtle. This plant grows in 
the bogs in many parts of England. 
Ste Can DLEBERRY Tree, 

MU.M. A kind of liquor much 
ufed in Germany j thus made. Take 
fixty-three gallons of water that hath 
been boiled to the confumption of a 
third part, brew it according to art 
with feven bulhels of wheat malt, one 
bufhel of oat meal, and one bu/hel 
of ground beans ; when it is tunned, 
let not the hoglhead be too full at firft j 
and when it begins to work, put into 
It, of the inner rind of fir three pounds, 
tops of fir and birch onepound^ cardu- 



M U M 

us benediflus three handfuls, flowers 
of rof.» folis a handful or two, burnct, 
betony, marjoram, avens, penny -royal, 
vvlld-thyme, of each a handful and 
a half, of elder-flowers two handfuls 
or more, feeds of cardamom bruifed 
three ounces, barberries bruifed one 
ounce : put the herbs and feeds into 
the veffei when the liquor hath wrought 
a while; and after they are added, let 
the liquor work over the vefTel as little 
as may be J fillit up at lall, and when 
it is flopped, put into the hogfhead 
ten new-laid eggs, unbroken or crackd , 
flop it up clofe, and drink it at two 
years end. 

But our Engllfli brewers ufe car- 
damom, ginger, and falTafras, which 
ferves inflead of the inner rind of fir, 
alfo walnut rinds, madder, red fand- 
ers, and enula campana; and fome 
make it of ftrong-beer, and fpruce- 
beer : and where it is defigned molily 
for its phyfical virtues, fome add water- 
crefTes, brooklime, and wild-parfly, 
with fix handfuls of horfe-radifhrafped 
to every hogfhead, according to what 
their inclinations and fancy mod lead 
them. 




NAIL. 



■ ,r 



N. 



N A r 

NAIL. A kind of horny cxcref- 
ccnce, upon the ends of the fin- 
gers or toes ; alfo a well-known fpike 
•of metjl with a fharp point, and aflat 
head, ufed to faftcn thinj^s together. 

Nail. In meafure, the fixteenth 
-part of a y.rd. 

NARD, [NarJus.l There are two 
•forts of this plant, the Celtic and the 
Jndian : the Celtic is a root confifting 
•of a number of fibres, with the lo"\er 
part of the llalks adheiing ; thefe 
hrt are covered with thin yellowish 
fcaJes, the remains of the withered 
leaves. The Indian nard or fpiksnard, 
is brought from the Eaft-Indies, 

This is a congeries cf fmall fibres 
ifluing from one head, and matted clofe 
together, fo as to form a bunch about 
the fize of the finger, with fome fmall 
firings at theoppofit; end of the head. 
The matted fibres (which are the part 
chofen for medicinal purpofes) arefup- 
pofed by fome to be th: Iiead or fpike 
of thepiant, by others ti.aroot: they 
feem rather to be the rcr.-.-.ins of the 
withered ftalks, or the .ibs of the 
leaves ; fometimes -entire leaves and 
piects of (talks are found among them j 
we likewife now and then meet with a 
number of thefe bunches ifTuing from 
one root. 

Both the nards have a warm, pun- 
gent, bitterifli tafte ; and a ftrong, not 
cvry agreeable fmell. They are (lo- 
machic and carminative ; and faid to be 
alexipliirmac, diuretic, and emmena- 
gog'jf ; their only ufe at prefenc is as 
ingredients in the mtthridate and the- 
riaca. 

NASTURTIUM, [Lepidium.] Dit- 
lander. 

Nasturtii Aquatki,, Water- 
crefTes. This plant grows wild in 
rivulets, ard the clearer Aanding 
tvatersj its leaves remain green all 



N A V 

the year, but are in greatert pcr- 
fe(flion in the fpring. They have a 
quick pungent fme.l (when rubbed 
betWiXt the fingers) and an acrid tafie. 
As to their virtues, they are among 
the milder aperient antifcorbutics. 
Hofrman has a mighty opinion of this 
plant, and recommends it as offirgular 
efficacy for accelerating the circulation, 
flrengchening the vifcera, opening 
obflruftions of the glands, promoting 
the fluid fccretions, and purifying the 
blood and humours j for lliefe purpofes, 
the exprefTed juice, which contains 
the peculiar tafte and pungency of the 
herb, may be taken in dofes of an 
ounce or two, and continued for a 
conlidei able time. Thejuiceisan in- 
gredient in the Jucd fcoibuiici of the 
fhops. 

N AST vjiTii Hirten^s. Garden-cref- 
fes. The leaves of garden creflfes make 
an ufefulfaila I in fcorbu tic habits : in 
tafle and medical virtues, they arc 
fimilar to the foregoing, but much 
weaker. The feeds alfo are confider- 
ably more pungent than the leaves. 

NAVE, tf a Wbtil, is that fliort 
thick piece in the center of the wheel, 
which receives the end of the axletree, 
and in which the ends of the fpokes are 
fixed : it is bound at each end with 
hoops of iron, called the have bands. 
It has likewife, in each end of the 
hole, through which the end of the 
axletree goes, a ring of iron, called 
thewifher, which faves the liole of the 
nave from wearing too big. 

NAVEL-GALL. The Navel-gall is 
featcd on the top of the fpine, oppofue 
to the navel, from whence it has its 
name, and is generally caufed by a 
bad faddle pinching a horfe behind, 
which, being neglefted, urns to a 
foul lupgous exciefcence; and fome- 
times, after long continuance, to a 
finuous 



NEC 

Cnuous and fiftulous ulcer, fometimes 
it looks like a harden'd brown jelly, 
and fometimes black and mortifytd. 
While there is moifture and fcnfibility 
in the part, an ointment may be applied 
of quickfilverand turpentine, viz. an 
ounce of quickfilver to every two 
ounces of the turpentine, rubbed in 
a mortar till they be well incorporated, 
and then fpread upon hurds or flax : 
on each fide of the fpine, over the 
fwelling, may be laid fmooth dry 
pledgits of hurds, or bolfters of flaxen 
tloth, which may be girt round with 
a furfingle. But if the fore be dead 
and lifelefs, a good rtiarp razor or 
knife may be made ufe of to cut it to 
the quick, and then let it be drefi'J ac- 
cording to the dire(ftions laid down in* 
the cure of wounds, (s'c. 

NAVELWORT, [Cctykdcn.'] This 
plant grows upon old walls, buildings, 
and rocky places, in many parts of 
England j it is a biennial plant. There 
are feveral other fpecies brought from 
•Ufiej-entpartsofthe world, and cultiva- 
ted in the gardens, lome of w hich re- 
quire the aflTiftance of a Itove. 

Sbrukby African Navilwort, 
\CraJfula.'\ There are feveral fpecies 
of this plant, which may be managed 
like the Sicoides. 

Venui^t Navklwout, {Cynoglojfum.'] 
This is an annual plant, with long 
narrow greyi/h leaves, and white 
flowers, which grow in loofe panicles. 
It is propagated by feeds fown in 
autumn. 

JVater Navklwort, [Hydrocotyh.'\ 
This plant grows plentifully in moilt 
places in moft parts of England. 

NAVEW, {Rapa.'] This is a fort 
of turnep, fownin fome of our gardens 
for culinary ufe : the roots are warmer 
than the common turnep. The feeds 
have a bitterilh tafte. accompanied 
with a faint aromatic flavour : abun- 
dance of virtues have been afcribed to 
them, as attenuating, detergent, al- 
exipharmac, and others ; at prefent, 
they are of no farther ufe in medicine, 
than as an ingredient in the theriaca. 

NEAT. Cattle of the cow kind. 

Neat-Herd. a cattle-keeper. 

NECTARINE. Properly fo called 
of neftar the poetical drink of the Gods. 
This fruit differs from peaches in no- 
thing more than having a fmooth rind, 
and the fle/h being firmer; it fliould 
Vol. JJ, 



NEC 

have come under the article peaches, 
but that the writers in gardening liave 
diftinguifhed this frui: by the name of 
nedtarine, and we Ihall follow their ex- 
ample, left by endeavouring to reftity 
their miftakes, we fhould not be un- 
derftood to the reader. Mr. Miiier 
mentions the folio w-ing varieties of this 
fruit ; 

1. Fairchild'searly ne<flarine. This 
IS one of the earlieft ripe Nediarines 
we have; it is a fmall round fruit, 
about the fize of tlie Nutmeg Peach, 
of a beautiful red colour, and well 
flavoured ; it ripens the end of July 
or the beginning of Auguft. ' 

2. Elruge Nedarine, The tree has 
jawed leaves ; the flowers are fmall ; 
u is a middle-fized fruit, of a dark 
red or purple colour next the fun, but 
of a pale yellow or grecniJh colour 
towards the wall ; it parts from the 
ftone, and has a foft melting juice j 
this ripens in the middle of Auguft. 

3. Newington Neiflarine. The tree 
has fawed leaves; the flowers are 
large and open ; it is a fair large fruit 
(wiien planted on a good foil,) of a 
beautiful red colour next the fun, but 
of a bright yellow towards the wal'l ; it 
has an excellent rich juice; the pulp 
adheres clofely to the ftone, where it 
is of a deep red colour : this ripens 
the latter end of Auguft, and is the beft 
flavoured of all the forts. 

4. Scarlet Neftarlne is fomewhat 
lefs than the laft, of a fine red or fcarlet 
colour next the fun, but lofes itfeh" ir» 
paler red towards the wall : this ripens 
in the end of Auguft. 

5. Brugnon or Italian Neaarine has 
fmooth leaves ; the flowers are fmall; 
it is a fair large fruit, of a deep red 
colour next the fun, but of a foft yeU 
low towards the wall ; the pulp is firm, 
of a rich flavour, and clofely adheres 
to the ftone, where it is very red: this 
ripens in the end of Auguft. 

6. Ri.man Red Neaarine has fmooth 
leave= -nd large flowers ; it is a large 
fair fruit, of a deep red or purple co- 
lour towards the fun, but has a yel- 
lowifli caft next the wail; the flelh is 
firm, of an excellent flavour, clofely 
adhering to the ftone, where it is very 
red : thi> ripens in the end 01 Auguft. 

7. Murry Neaarine is a middle-fized 
fruit, of a dirty red colour on the fide 
next the fun, but of a yellowifh green 

■W towards 



NEC 



NEC 



towards th; wall : the pulp is tolerably 
well flavoured ; this ripens the begiri- 
ning of September, 

8. Gc'litn N'edlarine is a fair har^d- 
fomef. uit, of a folt red colour next 
the fun, but of a bright yellow next 
the wall ; \hc pulp ii very yellow, of a 
ricil flavour, and clofely adheres to the 
ftone, where it is of a faint red colour : 
this ripens the middle of September. 

9. Temple's Nedtarine is a middle- 
fized fruit, of a foft red colour next 
the fun, but of a yellowifli green to- 
wards the wall; the pulp is melting, 
of a whire colour towaids the (lone, 
from which it parts, and has a fine 
poignant flavour : this ripens the end 
of September. 

10. Peterborough, or late green 
Ne£larine, is a middle-fizcd fruit, of a 
pale green colour on the ourfide next 
the fun, but of a whiiilh green towards 
the wall ; the fielh is firm, and, in 
good feafons, well flavoured : this 
ripens the middle of Oftober, 

There are fomeperfons who pretend 
to have more forts than are here fet 
down, but we doubt whether they are 
different from thofe here mentioned, 
there being fo near a refemblance be- 
tween the fruits of this kind, that it 
requires a very clofe attention to dif- 
tinguifh them well, efpecialfy if the 
trees growin different foils and afpcfts, 
which many times alters the fame fruit 
fo much, as hardly to be diftinguifhed 
by perfcns who are very converfant 
with them j therefore, in order to be 
thoroughly acquainted with their dif- 
ferences, it is necslfary to confider 
the fhape and fizeof their leavTS, the 
fize of their dowers, their manner of 
fliooting, &c. which is many times 
very helpful in knowing of thefe fruits. 

The culture of this fruit differing in 
rothing from that of the Peach, we 
refer the reader to that article, for an 
ample account of their planting, pru- 
ning, &c. 

NECTARIUM, From neftar, the 
fabled drink of the gods ; defined by 
Linna-us to be a part of the cortltn, or 
appendage to the petals, appropriated 
for containing the honey, a fpecies of 
vegetable fait under a fluid form, that 
oozes from the plant, and is the princi- 
pal food of bees and other infefts. 

Notwithftanding this definition, 
Which feemsto confider the neQarium 



as necefTary a part of the (tirtlla at the 
petals, it is certain that all flowers art; 
not provided with this appendaf^e ; 
neither indeed is it eflTcntial to frufti- 
flcation. 

There is, befides, a manifefl im- 
propriety in terming the neffariwm a 
part of the corollj. Linnaeus might, 
with equal propriety, have termed it a 
part or appendage of the lamina, 
calix, or pointal, as the appearance in 
quellion is conflned to no particular 
part of the flower, but is as various in 
point of (ituation, as of form. The 
truth is, the term ne?ltrium is exceed- 
ingly vague ; and, if any determinate 
meaning can be affixed to it, is ex- 
prefTive of all th-: fingularities which 
are obferved in the different parts of 
flowers. 

The tube or lower part of flowers 
with one petal, Linnaeus confiders as a 
true r.t^anum, becaufe it is generally 
found to contain the fweet liquor 
formerly mentioned. This liqour 
Pontedera compares to that called 
amnios in pregnant animals, which 
enters the fertile or impregnated feeds : 
hut that this is not at leaft its fole ufe, 
is evident from this circumftance, that 
the honey or liquor in queltion is to be 
found in flowers where there either are 
no fefds, or thofe, from the want of 
male organs, cannot be impregnated. 
Thns the male flowers of nettle and 
willow ; the female flowers of fea fide 
laurel, and black bryony ; the male 
and female flowers of clutia, higgc'aria, 
and butcher's broom, all abound with 
the honey or neftar alluded to. 

Dr. Vaillant was of opinion that 
the neflerium was an effential part of 
the corcHa ; for which reafon he dif- 
tinguifhed the fingular appearances in 
fennel-flower and columbine, by the 
name of petals : the coloured leaves, 
which are now termed the petals, he 
denominates tlie flower cup. 

That the re£farium, however, is 
frequently difllnft from the petals, Is 
evident, both from the well-known 
examples juft mentioned, as likewife 
from the flowers of monks-hood, 
hellebore, ifcpyrum, fennel- flower of 
Crete, barrcnwort, grafs of Pamafl^us, 
chocolate-nut, chcrlcr'.j, and fiiUVJgeJia. 
Thefe general obfcrvations being 
premifed, we proceed to take a nearer 
and more particular view of the prin- 

cifs 



NEC 



N E P 



cipal diverfities, both In form and 
fituation, of this linking appendage 
to the liower. 

I. In many flowers, the ecffarium 
is fhaped like a fpur or horn ; and chat 
cither in flowers oi one petal, as 
valeiian, water-miitipil, (utrhukrla) 
butter-wort, and car^ci-fnout 3 or in 
Tuch as have more than one, as lark- 
spur, violet, fumatory, balfam, and 
orchis. 

a. In the following plants, the nec- 
tmrium is properly a part of the ccrdla, 
as lying within the fubAance of the 
petals: ranjncului, liily, iris, crown- 
imperial, water-leaf, moufetail, ananas 
or pine-apple, dog's-tooth violet, pi- 
peridge ku/h, vallifr.eria, bern:ann:a, 
uvularla, and fwertia, 

3. The neSaiium is frequently placed 
in a feries or row witiiin the petals, 
though entirely unconnected with tiieir 
fubltance. In this fituation it often 
refemklei a cup, as in narcifl"us. A 
reffarium of this kind is faid by l-in- 
rxus to crown the ctrclla. The follow- 
ing are examples : daffodil, fea daf- 
fodil, campion, vifcous campion, 
fwallow-wort, Jlapelia, cynanchum, ne- 
pcnthtiy cherUr'ta, balfam-trec, African 
fplraea, witch hazel, olax, and paflion- 
flower. 

4. In Indian crefs, buckler muflard, 
Barbadoes cherry, and mcr.otrapa, the 
7ii8arium is fituattd upon, or makes 
part of the calix. 

5. The neBarium in baftard flower- 
fence is feated upon the anthtrtt or tops 
of the ftamina ; whence the name 
adenanthcra, orglandular anthera, which 
iias been given to this genus of plants. 
In the following lid it is placed upon 
tlie filaments : bean caper, bay, frax- 
inella, marvel of feru, bell-flower, 
iead-wort, roella, and ccmmelma. 

6. In hyacinth, flowering ru(h, flock 
july-flower, and rocket, the ncliarium 
is placed upon ths feed- bud. 

7. In honey-flower, orpine, buck- 
tvhieat, coUinfotiia, lathraa, navel-wort, 
mercury, clutia, kigfrdaria, fea-flde 
laurel, and African fpirxa, it is at- 
tached to the common receptacle. 

Laftly, in ginger, nettle dyer's weed, 
beart-feed, turirierick, grcKta, baliard 
orpine, vanelloe, (krcv-tret, and 
willow, the TicFtor'iHtn is of a very 
fingular conflru^tion, and cannot pro- 
perly fail under any of ths iawifi\v% 
bead?. 



In dlfcrim'natlng the penera, w^j- 
r\uia- often furnifties an eflxntinl cha- 
rafler. 

Plajits which have the ntEianum 
di Hindi from the petals, that is, not 
lodged within tlieir fubllance, are 
affirmed by Linnaeus to be generally 
poifonous. The follow .ng are adduced 
as examples : monk's hood, hellebore, 
columbine, fennel-flowers, grafs of 
Parnafluj, barren-wort, oleander, mai'- 
vel of Peru, bean caper, fucculent 
fwallow wort, fraxiiiella, and honey- 
flower. 

The term ncElar'mm, by which this 
part of the flower has been dilfinguKh- 
ed, is the invention of Linnsus, who 
pretends even to have firft recognized 
the part in quertion. It is certain, 
howe'. cr, that Tourncfort, in 1694, 
obferved it in the paflion-flower, 
fwallow-wort, and fome ether plants; 
and that Vaillr.nt, in 17 iS, regarded it 
as a part depending upon the petals, 
which did not met it any particular 
appellation. t/VtiCp/s • ^^' S^^// 

NEEZEWORT. Sneezewort. 

NEKUPHAR. Water lily. 

N£P, Catmint. This plant is com- 
momly cultivated in our gardens, and 
is fometimes alfo fcund growing wild 
in hedges and on dry banks. It is a 
moderately aromatic plant, of a ftrong 
fmell, not ill refemHing a mixture of 
mint and pennyroyal ; ot thevirtutsof 
which it likcwife participates. 

N E P H R I T I C \V O O D, [L\gr.-jm 
ncphr'vicum^ An American wood, 
brought to us in large conipaiff, pon- 
derous pieces, without knots, of a 
whitilli or pale yellow colour on the 
outfide, and dark-coloured or reddifh 
within: th.e bark is ufuuUy rtjefited. 
This wood imparts to water or reftitied 
fpirit a deep tinfture, appearing, when 
placed betwixt the eye and the light, 
ot a golden colour, in other fituations 
blue : pieces of another wood are 
fometimes mixed with it, which give 
only a yellow colour to water. The 
nephritic wood has fcarce any fmell, 
and very little tafte. It Itands recom- 
mended in difficulty of urine, nephritic 
complaints, and all diforders of the 
kidneys and urinary palfages ; and is 
faid to have this peculiar advantage, 
that it does not, like the warmer 
diuretics, htat or offend the part.--, 
i'laftiticncrs however have not iourid 
M i thtfe 



//^'>^1 /a U*^^/^^^, -^«« /;*/.r? v/^lr^ 



N I C 

tJiefe virtues warranted by experience. 

NETTLP:, [L'rtka.] This is a very 
common plant well known. There 
arc feveral fpec! es brought from dif- 
ferent countries cultivated in the gar- 
dens J they are eafily propagated by 
feeds or parting the roots. 

Dtati "NzTTLE. 5« Archangel. 

Hidge Nettle. See Hedge 
JJettle. 

Nettle Tree, [Ccltit.'} The lote 
tree. 

NEWING. Yeaftorbarm. 

NICKING. The operation of nick- 
ing a horfe, in the manner it is com- 
monly performed by our grooms and 
farriers, is one of the moft cruel and 
abfurd (not to fay in many cafes dange- 
rous) that ever was invented or prac- 
tifed; though, in itfelf, it is neither 
fevere or dangerous, and, if properly 
done, the horfe in three or four days 
will be fit again for his accuitomed 
labour. A fafe, eafy, and rational 
method of nicking cannot then fail of 
proving unlverfally ufeful and accept- 
able, to all who are lovers of this fo 
noble and ferviceable an animal. 

In order to underlland the rationale 
cf nicking, it may be neceflary to 
premife, that there are, in very limb, 
both in the human and brute ffecies, two 
different fets of mufcles, called, the 
ilexors & exter.i'ors, whofe adions are 
diametrically oppofue to each other, as 
the flexors, in their adions, will 
always ferve to bend the limb, and the 
extenfors to ihalten or extend it.—— 
Of thefe, the flexors are by much the 
>trongeit, and will always keep the 
iimh in a haLf-bent rtate, unkfs, by 
any effort of the will, the weaker ex- 
tenfors Ihould be brought into aflion, 
and overcome the natural contraftion 

of the bending raufcles. The arm 

of a man, when afleep, or in a ftate of 
rert, is always half bent, and the 
nngers half clofed, but he can at any 
time, at pleafure, extend it, and bring 
it Urait ; but tliis ilate of extenficn 
ma- be called, a (late of violence j as 
it cannot, for any length of time, be 
continued without fatigue and pain, 
owing to the fuperior ftrength, and 
aftions, of the flexor mufcles. 

Let tlie fame method of reafoning 
be applied to the effeft of the operation 
of nicking on the tail of the horfe ; 
and it will readily appear, why it 
Ihould raile or cock the tail j and, at 



N I C 

the fame time, will point out to fa 
what are the beft, the eafieft, and the 
fafeft methods of performing the opera, 
tion. 

The tail of a horfe Is naturally drawn 
downwards by the a£Vions of the 
flexor mufcles, and the horfe has it in 
his power to raife or elevate his tail 
when he voids his excrements or the 
like ; yet this may be confidered as a 
Itate of violence, and is but of niort 
duration, — —But weaken or deftrof 
the aflion of the mufcles, which draw 
it downwards, and the extending, or 
elevating mufcles, having nothing to 
connteraft or refifl them, will exert 
their ov/n particular a£Vion, and draw 
and pull up the tail. 

In the methods at prefent ufed in 
nicking, we may fee an inftance of the 
barbarity, and favage cruelty of the 
farriers and grooms ; f ^r, as they never 
trouble themfelves to enquire into the 
rationale of the operation, they in ge- 
neral aft as if they believed that the 
deeper they cut, and the more they 
punifhed the horfe by pulling and the 
like, the more likely will he be to 
carry a good tail; hence they often 
cut into the very joint itfelf, and put 
the horfe to fuch torture, that fevers, 
and mortifications, will come on j 
which often end in death : whereas, 
when the operation is properly per- 
formed, it is not attended with any 
hazard, and but very little pain j and 
any gentleman may perform it upon 
his own horfe, without rifkor danger; 
as all that is required is to deftroy the 
aftion of the mufcles which draw 
down the tail ; whence necefTarily the 
extenders, having no power to counter- 
aft them, will elevate and lift it up. 

When the tail is raifed, the two 
flexor mufcles may be feen and felt, 
near or upon the edges of the under 
part of the tail, from the bafe to its 
extremity: an incifion is to be made 
with a lancet or pen-knife, thro' the 
Ikin, at the dirtance of about an inch 
or two from the bafe of the tail ; and, 
the mufcle will appear like a red 
cord, about the thicknefs of the little 
finger, which is likewife to be cue 

through. Make a fecond incifion, 

in the fame manner, at the diflance of 
about two inches from the firft, and 
when the mufcle is cut through, the 
lower extremity of the divided mufcle, 
will drop, (o as to hang near half an 



N I C 



NIG 



Inch out of the firft incificn.— ^Make 
a third, and, if nccelTar) , a fourth in- 
cifion, in the fame manner, on each 
fide the tail : but it is not neceflar>' 
that the (kin, in the middle of the tail 
be divided, or, that the wounds fbould 
communicate from fide to fide with 
Mch other : then with a pair of fmall 
pincers, lay hold of the ends of the 
mufcle, as they hang out of the wound, 
and draw them as far out as may be, 
then with a knife, or pair of fcilFars, 
cut off as much of them, as you can 
come at. If an artery (hould be 
divided, and the wound bleed much, 
which will feldom or never happen, if 
the incifions do not extend too far to- 
wards the middle of the tail, a little 
lint or tow, dipped in flour and bound 
lightly or, will be fufficient to rtop it ; 
but, if there /hould not be a lofs of 
blood, there will be no occafion for 
any drelTing, or application of any kind, 
as thewounds will,in a very few days, 
heal of themfelves. It is the general, 
and indeed univerfally received practice, 
to extend the horfe's tail with weights 
and puUies, for many days after the 
Operation, but vi'hat fervice this can 
be of, is hard to guefs ; 'tis true indeed, 
it is a fevere puniftiment to the poor 
animal, and may carry an appearance 
of ftretching, and keeping open the 
wounds, but that it is of no real ad- 
vantage, is manifeft from experience, 
asinftances can be produced of horfes, 
which have never been pulleyed, that 
carry as good a tail, as any of thofe 
who have gone through the whole 
fevcrity of their racks and pullics : 
befides, as all that can with any degree 
of reafon be attributed to the pullies 
is, only to keep the divided extremities 
of the mufcle from coming together 
to heal and unite again, it will appear 
cbvious to any one that will give him- 
felf the liberty to think, that this can 
rever be the cafe, even when no pulley 
1$ ufed, for when the mufcle of the tail 
is divided, the lower part of it rtirinks 
and contraftsittoa full half inch from 
the incifion, at the fame time near half 
an inch being cut off from the upper 
part, there will be a difiancc of near 
or quite an inch, between the ex- 
tremities of the divided mufcle ; a 
fpacefar greater than is necefiary to 
prevent a union again. 

In the method above related of per- 
fonning the operation, :t is re:om- 



mended to make the firfl inciuon, at 
the difiance of an inch or two from 
the bafeof the tail ; but this depends 
entirely upon the manner in which any 
one may chufe to have the horfe carry 
his tail J if a very high cock-up tail 
fhould be required, the nearer the in- 
cifion is made to tie bafe of it, the 
likelier will this effeft be to happen, 
and vicf vnfa ; or if the tail fhould be 
required to turn round, up towards 
the back, four or five inciilons may be 
made, other wife three will in general 
be fully fufiicient : — or, if the horfe's 
tail fhould be required with the point 
dripping downward*, two incifions 
will be fufficient, and the firft may be 
made at the dif\ance of near three 
inches from the fetting on of the tail. 

NIGHISHADE, [SoUr.um.'] Mr, 
Miller reckons no lefs than thirty-one 
ditferent fpecies of this plant, and 
under this head the botani(\s range 
potatoes, love-apple?, egg-plant, an<f 
winter-cherry. They may be propa- 
gated by feeds or cuttings. 

Deadly Nichtsh.^de, [Sdarum Le- 
tha!e.'\ This plant grows wild in fhady 
wafte grounds. This and the com- 
mon night- (hade have both been 
fuppofed coding and difcutient in 
external applications, and poifonous 
wficn taken internally. Late experi- 
ence has fhewn, that an infufion of 
half a grain or a grain of t\\t dried 
leaves of either may be taken with 
fafety, arKl that in many cafes the dofc 
may be increafed by degrees to five or 
fix grains : that they generally occa- 
fion fome conftderable evacuation, and 
fcmetimes, cfpecially in the larger of 
the above dcfes, alarming nervous 
fymptoms, which however ceafswith 
the operation of the medicine. It has 
been expedted, that a cautious ufe of 
thefe very adtive plants would afford 
relief in ibme obftinate diforders: but 
thouch infcmeinllancesthey promifed 
grc^t benefit, the general event of thefe 
trials has net been very favourable. 
The Edinburgh college, who retained 
thefe plants at the preceding revifal of 
their Pharmacopoeia in the year 1744, 
have, at the late one in 1756, rejefied 
them both. 

Enchanters' lilCHriH AD t, Ses'EtS- 
CHANTERS. 

^v.ericar. NxoHTSHADE, \^SJamiUUf.\ 
This plant grows natuially in the 
V/eft- indies^ and may be propagated 



NIT 



N I T 



ky feeds, but will not bear the cold of 
Enpl.inH. 

NIPPLEWORT, [Laffjtig.] This 
js a common weed growing by the 
fides of foot paths and hedges. 

NITRE, [Nilaim.] A fait.extrafled 
in Peifia and the Eart-Indies, from 
certain eartiis that lie on the fides of 
hills J and artificiallj produced m fome 
parts of Europe, from animal and 
vegetable matters rotted together (with 
the addition of lime and afhe';) and 
expofed lor a length of time to the air, 
without the accefs of which, nitre is 
rever generated : the fait extradled 
from the earths, &c. by means of 
water, is purified by colature and 
Ciyrtallization. 

Pure nitre dilTolves in about fix 
timci its weight of water, and con- 
cretes againin to colourlefstranfparent 
ciyflals; their figure is that of an 
hexagonal prifm, terminated by a 
jpyramid of an equal number of fides. 
It readily melts in the fire; and in 
contaft with fuel defiagrares, with a 
bright flame and confidera'ole noife j 
after the detonation is over, a large 
quantity of alkaline fait is found 
remaining. The tafte of nitre is fliarp, 
penetratins;, and bitterifh, accompanied 
with a certain fenfation of coldncfs. 

^■itre is a medicine of celebrated ufe 
in many diforders. Befides the aperient 
quality of neutral falts in general, it 
lias a manifeftly cooling one, by which 
It quenches ihirlt, and abates febrile 
heats and commotions of the blood : 
it has one great advantage above the 
refrigerating medicines of the acid 
kind, that it does not coagulate the 
animal juices ; blood, which is coagu- 
lated by all the mineral acids,and milk, 
&c. by acids of every kind, are by nitre 
rendered more dilute, and preferved 
from coagulation : it neverthelefs 
fomewhat thickens the thin, ferous, 
acrimonious humours, and occafions 
an uniform mixture of them withfuch 
as are more thick and vifcid ; by this 
means preventing the ill confequences 
which would otherwife enfue from the 
former, though it has not, as Juncker 
fuppofes, any property of really ob- 
tunding acrimony. This medicine for 
tlie molt part promotes urine j fome- 
times gently loofens the belly ; but in 
cold phlegmatic habits, very rarely has 
this efTefi, though glv«a in Urge dofe$ : 



alvlnc fluxes, proceedint^ from too'grett 
acrimony of the bile or inflammation 
ot the inteHine!), are fuppreffed by 
it : in choleric and febrile difordert» 
it generally excites fweat ; but in ma- 
lignant cafe:!, where the pulfe is low, 
and the flrength loll, it retards this 
faiutary evacuation and the eruption of 
the exanihemata. 

Dr. Stall! has written an exprefs 
treatife upon the medical virtues of 
nitre ; in which he informs us, from 
his own experience, that this fait added 
to gargarifms employed ininflamations 
of the fauces in acute fevers, thickens 
the falival moiAure upon the palate 
and fauces into the confiflence of a 
mucus, which keeps them moift for 
a confidtrable time, wheieas, if nitre 
be not added, a fudden drynefs of the 
mouth immediately enfues: that in 
nephritic complaints, the prudent ufe 
of nitre is of more fervice than any of 
the numerous medicines ufually re- 
commended in that difeafe : that nitre 
gives great relief in fuppreffion and 
heat of urine, whether fimple or occa- 
fioned by a venereal taint } that it i« 
of great fervice in acute and inflam- 
matory pains of the head, eyes, ears, 
teeth, &c. in alleryfipelatousaffedions, 
whether particular or univerfal, and 
likewife in chronic deliriums ; that in 
diarrhoes happening in petechial fevers, 
nitre mixed with abforbtints and dia< 
phoretics, had the belt effefts, always 
putting a llop to the flux, or rendering 
the evacuation faiutary ; that in diar- 
rhceae happening in the fmall-pox, it 
had been employed with the like fuc- 
cefs, two dofes or three at mofl (con- 
lilting of two, three, or four grains 
each, according to the age, &c. of the 
patient) piven at the interval of two or 
three hours, putting a flop to the flux, 
after the bezoardic powders, both 
with and without opium, had been 
given without t'uccefs. The fame 
author recommends this fait likewife 
as a medicine of fingular fervice In 
choleras attended with great anxieties 
and heat of the blood ; in the flatulent 
fpafmodi* heart-bums familiar to hy- 
pochondrical people ; and the lofs of 
appetite, naufea, vomiiing, &c, which 
gouty perfons are fometimes feized 
with upon the pains of the feet, &c. 
fuddenly remitting. In cafes of this 
lallkind, the ufe of nitre furely requires 
great 



NOR 



NOV 



^eat caution, althougli the autlor af- 
fares us, that no bad confequcnces are 
to be tearetl trom it. Neverthelefs he 
obfcrves, that in a phthifis and ulcerous 
affeflions, it has been found to be of 
no fervice j and that therefore its ufe 
may be fuperftded in thefe complaints. 
Indeed in diiorders of the iungs in 
general it is commonly reckoned to be 
rather hurtful than bcnehcial. 

The ufual dofe ot thi!> medicine a- 
mong us is from two cr three grains 
to a fcruple^ though it may be given 
with great f-tety, and generally ro bet- 
ter advantage, in larger quantities ; 
the only inconvenience is its being apt 
to fit nntafy on the itcmach. Some 
have affirmed, that this fait lofe . half 
its weight of aqueous moifture by 
fofion, and confequently that one pare 
•f melted nitre is equivalent to two of 
the cryftals ; but it did not appear, 
upon feveral carelul trials, to lofe fo 
much as one-twentieth of its weight. 
The officinal preparations of nitre are 
a decoftion or folution in wattr and 
troches. A corrofive acid fpirit i? alfo 
extra£led ircm it. It is employed like- 
wife in operations on metallic feodits, 
for promoting their calciiiacion, or 
burning out their inflammable matter. 
NONE-SO-PRETTY. London 
pride. 

NONESUCH, tr Flower OF 
Bbijtol. Campion, ^ex^^/^i/fii , 
NORTHERN ASPECT. Is tl.e 
leafl favourable of any in England, as 
having very little bentfit from the fun, 
even in the height of fummcr, there- 
fore can be of little ufe, whatever may 
have been advanced to the contrary : 
for although many forts of fruit-trees 
will thrive and produce fruit in fuch 
pofitions, yet fuch fruit can be of little 
wort)i, fince they .ire deprived of the 
kindly warmth cf the fun ^o ccrreft 
their crude juiceSj and render iliem 
v7eU taded and wholefcme ; therefore 
h is to little purpofe to plant fruit- 
trees againft fuch walls, except it be 
lor fucli which are intended for baking, 
&c. where the fire will ripen, and 
render thofe juices wholefome, which, 
for want of fun, could not beperforroed 
while growing. 

You may alfo plant Morello Cher- 
ries, for preferving ; and white and 
red Currants to come late, alter thofe 
which are expofed to the fun are gene : 
and if the foil be warm and dry, fomc 



fcrtsof fummer Pears will rfo tolerably 
well on fuch an expcfure, and will 
continue Lnger in eating, than if they 
were more expcfed to the fim. But 
you fhould by no means plant winter 
Pears in fuch an alped>, as hath been 
praflifed by many igncr.int perfons, 
fmce we find that the btrt fouth walls, 
in fomt bad years, are barely warm 
enough to ripen thofe fruits. 

Duke Cherries planted againll wail's 
expcfed to the north, will tipen much 
later in the feafon ; and if the foil is 
warm, they will be wel! flavoured, fo 
that hereby this fruit m-iy be continued 
a month later than is ufual. 
NOSEBLEED. Milfoil, 
NOVEMBER. The ninth month 
of the year. 

Ifttrk to be done thU mor.ih in the 

Kacbtn Cardin. 
Continue to fow Beans and Peas on 
a warm border, to fi:pport thofe fcvva 
lafl month, 

About the middle of this month 
begin to cutoff the leaves cf Artichoke* 
clofc down to the ground, and throw 
tlie earth up in ridires about the plants, 
wliith will keep out the froft better 
than laying long dung ever them. In 
very fevere weather, however, they 
will require a covering of firaw or 
litter. 

Take up Carrots and Parfnips, and 
other kitchen rcets, this month in 
a dry day, for winter ftores. Cut 
the tops cff cicfe, clean them from dirr, 
and depofit them in a bed of dryfand, 
with the crowr.s of the roots outwardi, 
over which lay a covering of dry f^raw. 
Potatoes ft)ou;d be laid in a isy 
room, and in frofty weather cc.vered 
with flraw a foot thick. Examine 
them frequently, and take out the 
rotten ones, ctherwife they will cor- 
rupt the whole fleck. 

It is a good method to gather only 
the outfide leaves of Spinage at this 
feafon, for the inner ones will grow 
the larger againll another gathering. 

Prepare hot-leds toraifc Afparagus, 
in the manner above diredtd for mi- 
king hot-beds, 
Nurfery, Fiuit, ar.d Flnv^r Gcrdirs. 
Prepare your land for new planta- 
tions in Febiuary or March. 

Stake and tie new planted trees ; 

lay mulch on their rccts, and ccvtr 

the b^ds of fcedling exotic plants, in 

fharp 



N U R 



N U R 



a fharp/ron$, with hoops and mats, 
•r totally with peas-flraw, Sec. 

Plants in potb ftiould be plunged in- 
to the earth to the rim in a warm 
fituation, when they may be eafily 
covered. 

Open the Greenhoufe windows In 
the nuddle of the day, and water the 
plants as there [hall be need. 

Take care to Ihelter the cholcefl of 
your Tulips, Hyacinths, Ranunculus's 
and Anemonies, from heavy rains, 
fliarp frofts, and Tnow, which will 
deftroy or greati) injure them ; and 
continue to plant thofe and other 
bulbous roots as in Oftober. 

Continue to tranfplant Rofes, Sy- 
ringas, Honeyfuckles, and other hardy 
flowering flirubsj and prune off 
their irregular branches at the fame 
time ; you may alfo take up their 
fuckers, and place them in the nur- 
fery for incrcafe. 

Prepare the ground for receiving the 
n?or« tender plants inthefprlng. Clear 
The gravel walks of weeds, mofs, and 
mbbjih, and roll them once a week in 
a dry day j w!iich will keep them in 
better order than the mocliHi cuftom of 
digging them up for ths winter. 
Trf-'j and Shrul/i in fivivcr: 

Honeyfuckles, lauruftinus, meze- 
reon, paflTioafiower, pyracantha in 
/ruit, rofes, ftrawberry-tree in fruit 
»ni flower, 

FlcToers. 

Anemonies, afters, Chinefc afters, 
colchicums, cyclamens, daifies, gol- 
ckn-rods, panlies, polyanthufes, prim- 
rofes, (tarvi'orts, ftocks, ihiped lilies 
in leaf, funflowers, wallflo-.vers. 

NOURISHMENT <.f Fuy.ts. See 
Food. 

NURSERY. A moft "ufrful dif- 
tridt of gardening, appropiiated for 
the raifing andnurlingailfoits of trees, 
thruhs, and herbaceous plants, to a 
proper growth, for fupplying and re- 
cruiting the different_gardens,orchards, 
plantations, &c. 

In the Nurfery-garden are raifed all 
the different forts of fruit-trees, and 
frudiferous (hrub^, by the methods 
airefted for each fort under their pro- 
per genera, nurfing and training them 
up to a proper fize & growth for plsrt- 
jng in the garden or orchard, wnere 
they are finally to remain li> proluce 
their fruit. 

Likewife in the Nurfery is raifed the 



va^ train of forefl-trees, hardy orna« 
mental trees, and (hrubs in genersl, 
both deciduous and evergreens of all 
thofe kinds, and training them up to a 
proper fizc for the purpofes for which 
they are defigned in the pUntation^i 
and pleafure ground. 

And in the Nurfery may alfo be 
railed all the forts of hardy herbaceous 
plants, both fibrous rooted, bulbousj 
and tuberous-rooted kinds, for adorn- 
ing the pleafure -garden, medical 
ufe. Sec. 

All forts of the above kinds may be 
readily raifed together in the fam* 
Nurfery in feparate compartments. 

A Nurfery thus furnilhed with the 
different forts of all kinds of trees, 
fhrubs, and herbaceous plants, will 
prove an inexhauftible fource of ac- 
commodation both for private and 
public ufe. 

The raifing or propagation of the . 
numerous kinds is performed by va- 
rious methods, as by feed, fuckers, 
layers, cuttings, flips, off-ftts, part- 
ing the roots, grafting, budding; each 
of which methods as diredled under 
their proper heads ; and after being 
raifed by either of the above methods, & 
Rationed in Nurfery-rows, they are to 
remain until they have acquired a 
proper growth for their refpe£liveufes, 
then to betranfplanted into the garden, 
orchard, plantation, &c. where they 
are defigned finally to renlain.to effeA 
the feveral purpofes for which they 
are calculated, either for ufe, orna- 
ment, or variety ; obferving, that as 
a recruitof fomeorotherof the various 
fotts will be required to be drawn off 
every year, to fupply the different 
gardens and plantations, a frefh fup- 
ply of young plants fhould alfo be 
raifed aC.ordingly every year in the 
Nurfery, of mo(t of the various kinds, 
fo as to h.'ve this diflridl always fully 
flocked with all kinds in feveral dif- 
ferent degrees of growth ; fome in 
feed-beds, others tranfplanted in Nur- 
fery-rows ; fome one year, others two, 
three, or feveral years : all of which 
fliould be well attended to, both in 
private and public Nurferies, that there 
may be a fuificiency of plants of all 
forts for furnifhing every different de- 
partment of gardening as they (halibc 
occafionaily wanted, 

lo 



N U R 



N U R 



tn the public N urfcry-gardens they 
have alA) convenient green-houfcs, 
glafs-cafes, and rtovos, with their pro- 
per appendages, for raifing the tender 
exotics from the warmer parts of the 
world i thcfe department* are always 
ftationtd in the warmtft and moft fun- 
ny fitujtion, having their front direflly 
facing the fouth, to have a!l pofTiblc 
benefit from the fun's influence ^ and 
each principal department having its 
dif}erent appendages as aforefaid, which 
arc fmaller departments cf frame- 
work, fafbed and glazed, either ad- 
i'oining to the main ones, or detached : 
erving as f.mlnaries or nurferies for 
raifing and nurfing the various tender 
plants to a proper growth for furniih- 
ing the other larger conferratories. 

Thus a Nurfery ground, furnilhing 
plants of different temperatures, will 
prove very valuable, and its various 
growths willafford the moit agreeable 
fource of variety at all feafons, which 
to many will appear as ornamental and 
defireahle as themoft elegant pleafur«- 
ground or flower-garden. 

With refpefl to the proper cxtertt or 
dimcniions of a Nurfery, whether for 
private ufe, or for public fupply, it 
muft be according to the quantity of 
plants required, or the demand for fale; 
if for private ufe, from a quarter or 
half an acre to five or fix may be pro- 
per, which mufl be regulated accord- 
ing to the extent of garden-ground and 
plantations it is required to fupply 
with the various forts of plants ; and 
if for a public Kurfery, not lefs than 
three or four acres of land will be 
worth occupying as fuch, and from 
that to fifteen or twenty acres, or more, 
may be requifite, according to the 
flfmand, though (ome occupy forty or 
fifty acres in Nurfery-gicund. 

In the neighbourhood of London, for 
eight or ten miiw round, there are a 
5reat number of extenfive public Nur- 
litries, molt beautifully furnifhed with 
a prodigious variety of all foitscf trees, 
fhrubs, and berbaceou* plants, of 
different degrees of grcvth,torfupply- 
Ing noblemen and eenilemen's gardens 
and plantations, for fome himdreds of 
miles dif^ant at Komeand abroad; as 
alfo all forts of feeds. Molt of which 
Kurferiej are alfo fwrnilhed with all 
proper ^reen-houfcs. (tlafs czfes, iloves, 
■fee. for the raifing all kindi cf curioui 
tsnder exotics iut public fwppb'. 
Vci, IJ. 



With regard to foil for a ICorfsry, 
the natuteand quality of thi$, withovt 
all di('pi:te, requires our p^irticular 
attention. The Nurfcry-men generally 
prefer a loamy foil oi a moderately- 
light temperament, if poflible, fuch 
as in mort ot the Nurfery grounds 
around London : however, a Nurfery 
may be ot any fa; moderately light 
land, that is fifteen oi eighteen inches 
depth of good working llaplc, but if 
two or (hiet fpade> deep it will be the 
greater advantage j and where there is 
fcopeof ground to chufe from, always 
prefer that where there is a good depth, 
and naturally rich or fat foil, for the 
foil of a Nurfery cannot be too eood^ 
notwithftanding what fome advance to 
the contrary j for if foil prove poor 
and lean, the plants raifed thereort 
will be languid, weak, and ffuntyj 
and no remedy, how artful foerer, 
willbeahleto reftify their conftitution, 
efpecially all the tree-kinds : wherei 
as thofc raifed in a good fat foil al- 
ways afTumea free growth, and advance 
with Itrength and vigour. It is riot 
abfolutely requifite, however, that the 
/"oil fhouid be exceedingly rich, nor 
over carefully manured, a medium br- 
tweerj the two exrreires is beft. A 
good frefh fat foil, fuch as any good 
paflure, which having the fward 
trenched to the bottom, is excellent 
for the growth of trees ; any good fat 
foil of corn-fields is alfo extremely 
proper J or any other good foil of thfe 
nature of common garden-earth iS 
aifo very well adapted for a Nurfery. 

A3 to fituation; if this hfc rathe? 
fomewhat low it will be the better^ 
becaufe it is naturally w.,rrher, and 
more out of the pov.cr cf cutting arid 
boifterous wind» than a h gner firu*- 
tion ; though if it happens where forhfe 
parts of the grcunc is high and fcrr.C 
lov/, it may be an advantage, the bet- 
ter to fuit the nature of the diffrrent 
plants. It is aifo of fingular advantage 
to have a Nurfery ground tuU <xpofe8 
to the fun ^and irec air; and, if 
pofTible, where there is the convenief)C*| 
of having water for the occafional 
watering of feedling6,and fomt n?wly 
tranf|ilanted plants. 

And as to a Nurfery for priTate Uti, 
with regard to its place off (ifuation, 
ref[.efting the other garden didn^Sj 
that, where there is looir, it miy tilher 

hi 



J 



NU R 



N tJ R 



be entirely detached, or msy be fomi- 
what contigvioijs to the outer bound- 
aries of the fhrubhery plantations of 
the pleafure-ground, and fo contrived 
as to lead infenfibly intoit by winding 
walks, To as to appsar part of the 
garden. 

A fence round the whole ground is 
nectflary : this may either be a hedge 
and ditch, ora paling; the former is 
the cheapeft, and in the end the moft 
durable; though in fome places where 
hares and rabbits abound, paling fences 
at tint are eligible, for preferving the 
Nurferies from the depredations of 
tlrofe animals, which often do great 
mifchief to the young plants, by bark- 
ing and cropping them : a good hedge- 
and-ditch-fence, however, • may be 
made very efFeftual againft the inroads 
of both men and brutes ; and the moft 
eligible plant for this purpofe is the 
haw-thorn. 

The ground muft then be all re- 
gularly trenched one or two fpades 
deep, according as tlie natural depth 
of foil will admit, for by no means 
die; deeper than the natural good foil, 
let it be either one, one and a half, or 
two fpades deep. ■ 

Then, having trenched tile ground, 
proceed to divide it by walks into 
quarters, and other compartments ; a 
pniicipal walk fliould lead direiftly 
through the middle of the ground, 
which may be from five to eight or tti\ 
feet wide, according as it /hall feem 
proper for ufe or ornament, having a 
broad border on each fide : another 
Avalk ftiould be carried all round next 
the outward boundary, four or five 
feet v/ide, leaving an eight or ten-feet 
border next the fence all the way ; 
then may divide the internal part by 
crofs walks, fo as to form the whole 
into four, fix, or eight principal divi- 
fions, which are commonly called 
quarters. 

One or more of the divifions mufl 
be allotted for a feminary, i. e. for the 
reception of all forts of feeds, for 
raifing feedling plants to furnifh the 
other parts ; therefore divide this femi- 
rary-^round into four-feet-wide beds, 
with foot-wide alleys at leaft between 
bed and bed ; in thefe beds Ihould be 
/owed feeds, &c. of all fuch trees, 
fhrnbs, and herbaceous plants, a> are 
raifud from feed 3 and which feeds 



conrtriofthe various forts of kernel? 
and (tones of fruit, to raife Hocks for 
grafting and budding j feeds of fore(t- 
trees, ornamental trees, fhrubs, &c, 
and feeds of numerous herbaceous 
p«ennials, both of the fibrous-rooted 
and bulbous-rooted tribe. The fowing 
feafon is both fpring and autumn, ac- 
cording to the nature of the difTerent 
forts, which is fully illuftrated under 
their proper genera ; and vthen the 
young tree and fhrub feedling-plants fo 
laifed, are one or two years old, they 
are to be planted out in Nurfery-rows 
into the other piincipal divifion ; but 
many kinds of herbaceous plants re- 
quire to be pricked out from the 
feed-beds, when but from two to 
three or four months old. On the 
other hand, moft kinds of bulbous 
feedlings will not be fit for plant- 
ing out in lefs than one or two 
years. 

Another part of the Nurfery-ground 
fhould be allotted for flools of various 
trees and fhrubs, for the propagation 
by layers, by which vaft numbers of 
plants of different kinds are pro- 
pagated. Thefe ftools are ftrong plants 
of trees and fhrubs, planted in rows 
three or four feet diftant every way, 
and fuch of thesi as naturally rife 
with tall flems are, after being plant- 
ed one year, to be headed down 
near the ground, to |force out many 
lower fhoots conveniently fituated for 
laying. 

The other principal divifions, there- 
fore, of the Nurfcry-ground, is for the 
reception of the various forts of fecd- 
ling-plants from the above feminary- 
quarters ; alfo for all others that are 
raifed from fuckers, layers, cuttings, 
&c. there to be planted in rows from 
one to two or three feet afundtr, ac- 
cording to their natures : obferving to 
allow the tree and fhrub-kinds treble, 
the diftance of herbaceous perennials. 

Of the tree and fhrub-kinds fome are 
to be planted for ftocks to graft and 
bud the fele£l forts of fruit-trees upon, 
and other choice plants, which are 
ufually propagated by thofe methods j 
others are trained up entirely on their 
own roots without budding and graft- 
ing, as in moft foreft and other hardy 
tree-kinds 5 as alfo almoft all the forts 
of flirubs. 

Here 



N U K 



N U R 



Her€ they are to rfmain to have two, 
tJ»ree,orfeveral years growth, according 
as they ftiall require for the feveral 
purpofes for which they aie defigned 
in their future fituations in the garden, 
&c, which is direfted in their refpec- 
live cultures. 

With rejjard to the manner of per- 
forming the various methods of pro- 
pagation for raifing the numerous Nur- 
fery-plants, it is fulJy exhibited under 
the following heads, in the couife of 
this work : fowin^ ftedi — layen — cut- 
Ungi — fuckeri — Jltpi — off- jet i —-parting 
roots — grafting — inoculation. And the 
forts that are ufuaily propagated by 
either of thofe methods are pointed 
out under their feveral refpeftive heads, 
with particular direftions of the feveral 
ways each method is performed on 
the different kinds. 

The feafon for performin;: the works 
of fowing, planting, &c. IsdifFerent in 
different kinds, but autumn and fpring 
are the principal feafons. 

Some forts require to be fowed in 
autumn, others not till fpring, which 
is particularly explained for the va- 
rious forts undr the articles them- 
fevles* 

An d as to planting ortranfplanting, 
the principal feafon is from October 
until March, or even until April for 
tender kinds, efpecially many of the 
ever-green tribe j but all hardy trees 
and flirubs may be transplanted any 
time in winter, in open mild weather 
from Oflober until March, as juft 
obferved ; and for the tender kinds of 
ever-greens, &c. early in autumn, or 
not till fettled weather in fpring, is the 
proper time to remcve thefe forts. 

But as to hardy herbaceous fibrous* 
rooted plants, they may be tranf- 
plantedaimolt any time in autumn or 
fprir.g; even many forts in fummer, 
vvhen planting them out from the 
/eminary : obferving, however, autumn 
and fpring are the proper planting-fea- 
fons for older or larger plants ; and 
which are alfo the only proper feafons 
for dividing or flipping the roots of all 
thefe kinds of plants for increafe. 
• As for bulbous-rooted kinds, & all 
fuch tuberous roots whofe leaves decay 
in fummer, the proper feafon for plant- 
iog crtranfplantini^ them is from May 
pr June until the beginning of Auguit, 



when their flower-flalks decay, wl.i.h 
in fome forts happens early and fome 
late in the fummer ; but as foon as it 
happens in the different forts, is the 
only proper time to remove all thofe 
kinds of plants when neceffary, as alfo 
to feparate their off-ftts for increafe ; 
and which may either be planted a- 
gain dirfflly, or kept out of ground 
one, two,, or feveral months, thou^ih 
it is proper to plant the principal part 
again in autumn, unjefs where ^ny is 
to be retained for fale. 

Succulent perennials may be tr-inf- 
planted almoll .my time from March 
or April until Aii^uft or September, 
whi'.h is the beft feafon for removing 
thefe kinds ; and mofl kinds of fuc- 
culent cuttings fucceed bell when 
planted in fummer. 

In the diflribution of all the various 
forti of plants in the Kuifery, let each 
fort be feparate : the fruit-trees fliould 
generally occupy fpaces by themfelves; 
the foreft-trees, &c. fhould alfo be 
{Rationed together3 all the ftirub kind 
fhould alfo be ranged in feparate com- 
partments ; allot alfo a place for her- 
baceous perennials ; a warm place 
(hould likewifebe allotted for the ten- 
der kinds, and inclofed with yew hedges, 
or a reed hedge, &c, in which com- 
partments you may flation all fuch 
plants that are a little tender whiifl 
young, and require occafional fheltec 
from froft, yet are not fo tender as to 
require to be houfed like green-houfe 
plants, &c. fo that in fuch compart- 
ments there may alfo be frames of 
various fizes, either to be covered oc- 
cafionally with glafs-lights, or with 
matts, to contain fuch of the choicer 
ot the above tender kinds in pots, to 
be nurfed up a year or two, or longer, 
with cccafional fhelter, till hardened 
gradually to bear the open air fully. 

The arrangement of all the forts 
in the open grounds, mufl always V9 
in lines or Nurfery-Rows, to ftand 
till it arrives at a proper growth 
for drawing off for the jcarden 
and plantations; placing the fruit- 
tree Itocks, &c. for grafting and 
budding upon, in rows two feet a- 
funder, if for dwarfs; but Itandards 
two feet and a half, and a foot and 
half in the lines ; though after 
being grafted and budded, they then 

K i comme(iciog 



tl U Jt 



N U R 



fpmtnepcmg fruit-trcej, See. that if 
(hey are to rtand to grow to any largt 
(ije, they (hould be allowed the width 
of a y^rd between the rows. Forefl- 
trees fliould alfo be placed in rows from 
two or three feet afunder, and half 
that diflance in the rows ; varying 
;hc diilance both ways according to 
the time they are to (tand ; the fhrub 
tcind Ihouid likewife be arrange) in 
rows about two fpet afunder, and fif- 
teen or eighteen inches dillant in each 
line; and ja to herbaceous plants, they 
iftiouid generally be difpoliil in four- 
feet wide beds, in rows from fix to 
twelve or eighteen inches afunder, ac- 
cording to their nature of growth, 
and time they arc to ftand. 

By the above arrangement of the 
various forts of hardy trees, ftirubs, 
ana herbaceous plants, in rows at thofe 
i'mall diftancesin the Nurfery, a pro- 
digious number of plants are contain- 
ed within a narrow compafs, which is 
futncientrcom, as they are only tore- 
main a (hort time j and that by being 
thus ftationed in a little compafs, they 
are more readily kept under a proper 
regulation for the time they are to re- 
main in this department. 

But in the public Nurferies they 
often plant many kinds of feedling- 
trees and flirubs in much clofer rows 
at firfl planting out, than the diftances 
above prefcribed, not only in order to 
bujband the ground to the beft ad- 
vantage, but by Handing clofer, it en- 
courages the lleni to fhoot more direftly 
upward, and prevents their expanding 
theniftlves much any where but at top, 
as fcr inflance, nnany forts of ever- 
greens that are but of flow growth 
tne hirt year cr two, fuch as the pine- 
trees, firs, and feveral others 5 which 
the Nurfcry-g^rdeners often prick out 
from the feminary, firll into four-feet- 
Vt'liie beds, ip rows, length-ways, fix 
jpchps afunder j and after having one 
or two years growth here, tranfplant 
them in tovjs 3 foot giunder j and in 
a year or two after give them another 
apd final tranfplantation in the Nur- 
fery, in rows two or three feet afunder, 
as obffirved above j and by thefe dif- 
fe.ent traniplantings, it will encourage 
tjie roots to branch out into many 
^jorjzontal fibres, and prepare them 
better for {itud tranrplanution, vvhich 



Udia morfl particularly sterfRiry in 
fev«ra)of the pine and fir kinds, an^ 
feveral other ever-greens, as is more 
fully «xhibited under their proper 
genera. 

With refpeft to the diflferent method* 
of planting the various forts of Nur- 
fery-planis, after being raifcd either by 
feed, layers, cuttings, &c. it is per- 
formed in feveral ways to different 
forts ; fome arc pricked out by dibble, 
others are put in by the fpade, either 
by trenches, flitting in, trenching, or 
holing ; and fome ar« driiled in by ^ 
fpade or hoc. 

As to moft of the tree and flirub< 
kind, fome'imes the young feedling- 
trees and flirubs are pticktd out from 
the feminary by dibble; fometimcf 
they are put in by the fpade in the fol- 
lowing methods : firfl, having fet 9 
line to plant by, flrike the fpade into 
the ground with its back clofe to thp 
line, and give another ilroke at right 
angles with it ; then fet a plant into 
the crevice made at the fecond flroke^ 
bring it clofe up into the ftrll made 
crevice even with the line, and prefs 
the mould clofe to it with the foot ; 
then proceed to plant another in the 
fame way, and fo proceed till all is 
planted. A fecond method is for 
plants with rather larger roots : Arike 
the fpade down with its back clofe to 
tile line, as aforefaid, and then with a 
fpade cut out a narrow trench, clofe 
along the line, as praOifedin planting 
box edgings, making the fide next the 
line perfectly upright; then placing 
the plants upright againft the back of 
the trench clote to the line, at the 
j-roper diftances, before mentioned ; 
and as you go on, trim in the earth 
upon their roots : and when one row i^ 
thus planted, tread the earth gently 
all along clofe to the plants ; and then 
proceed to plant another row. A 
fecond method cf planting-cut fmall 
tree and ftirub plants is, having fet the 
line as above, then turning the fpade 
edgeways to the line, caitout »he earth 
cf that fpit, then a perfon being ready 
with plants, fet one in the cavity clofe 
to the line, and d'ne&'iy taking an- 
other fuch fpit, turn the earth in upon 
the roots of the piant, and then pla- 
cing another plant into the fecond cut, 
cover its roots vi'.h th? earth of a third 

fpir= 



N U R 



N U R 



(pit, and (o on to the end i but fome- 
tiines, when the roots are any thing 
larger, 1 cles arc made along by the 
line wide enough to receive the roots 
freely every way; fo coveiinR them in, 
as above, as you go on : obleiving al- 
ways to piefs thceartli gently with the 
footclofe to the roots, and clofe about 
the ftems, to fettle the plants firmly 
jn their proper pofition. 

Herbaceous fibrous-rooted plants 
>re, for the moft part, planted with a 
dibble, except when the roots are 
larger and fpreading, or fuch as are 
removed with balls of earth ; then 
they are more commonly planted by 
holeirg them in with a garden trowel^ 
or fmall fpade. 

Bulbous and tuberous- rooted plants, 
fuch as lilies, tulips, anemonies, ra- 
nunculas, Sec. are very commonly 
planted with a dibble, but many forts 
may alfo be drilled in whb a hoc. 
Thefe forts are alfo fometimes planted 
as follows : rake or trim the earth 
from off the top of the beds from about 
three to four or five inches deep, into 
the alleys, then place the roots in rows 
upon the furface, and immediately 
cover them with the earth which was 
drawn off into the alleys for that pur- 
pofe, fpreading it ever}/ over every 
part, fo as to bury all the roots .ai> 
equal depth. 

But as to the tender kinds of exotic- 
plants they require occafional flielter 
whiht young, many of them fhould 
be potted, in order for moving to a 
warm fituation in winter, or fome in- 
to frames, &c. to have occafional Shel- 
ter from frcft, by glaffes or mats, as 
they (hall require; hardening them, 
however, by degrees, to bear the open 
air fully in the Nurfery they ear round. 
And the mofl tender kinds, that re- 
quire the aid of a gieen-houfe and 
Itove, muft all be potted, and placed 
among the refpeflive plants of thofe 
Confervatcries. 

With refpeft to the management of 
the various hardy Nuifery-plants ; 

Thofe dei-gned as Itocks for fruit- 
trees (hould have their ftems gene- 
rally cleared from lateral flioots, fo as 
to form a .clean ftraight ftem, but 
never to (horten the leading (hoot, 
unlefs it be decayed, or become very 
(jrooked, in which cafe it may be pro» 



per to cut it down low in fprins;, an^ 
it will (hoot out again ; training thf 
main fhoet fur a iUm, with its top 
entire for the prefent, till grafted or 
budded; and as to the gratting and 
buddingthem. that workis lull directed 
under thcte articles, and their general 
method of tiaining, whether fordwarfs 
or ftandards, is aifo particularly ex* 
hibittd under thofe two heads, and in 
the refpeftive genera of the variouj 
forts. 

Foreft-trees (hould aifo be encourage4 
to form ftraight clean ftems, by oc» 
cafional trimmingcff thelargeft lateral 
branche-, which will alfo piomote the 
leading top-fhoot in afpiring farther in 
height; always fuffering that part of 
each tree to fticot at full length, that 
is not to top it, unltfs, however, 
vvherethe ftem divides into forks, to 
trim off the weakeft, and leave the- 
ftraighteft and ftrongelt (hootor branch, 
to ftioot out at its proper length t9 
form the top, as above. 

The different forts of fhrubsmay 
either be fuffered to branch out in their 
own natural way, except jull regula- 
ting very ircegular growths j or fomc 
may be trained with fmgle clean ftems, 
from about a foot to two or three high, 
according as you fhall think proper 
with refpeG to the forts or purpofes 
for which you defign them in the 
(hrubbery ; but many ftirubs appear 
the m 3ft agreeable when permitted tQ 
fhoot out laterally all the way, fo as 
be branchy or feathered to the bottom, 
All the fruit-treps, as foon as grafted 
or budded, ftiould have all their 
different varieties numbered by pla- 
cing large flat-fided iHcks at the ends of 
the rows, for which purpofe many of 
the London Nurfer>-men ufe thefpokes 
of old coach-wheels, or any thing 
about that fize of any durable wood, 
painting or marking the numbers 
thereon, j, 2, 3, &c. to different fticks, 
entering the numbers in the Nurfery- 
book, with the name of the vaiietiej 
to which the number-fticks aie placed; 
whereby you can always readily have 
recourfe to the forts wanted. 

The fame method may be praftifed 
toany other trees, flirubs, or herbaceous 
plants, cfpecially the varieties of par- 
ticular forts, when they are numerous, 
fuch a$ in man^ ^f the A^wery-iribe, 



K U K 



N U R 



as auriculas, carnations, tulips, ane- 
tNonies, ranunculas, and the like. 

With refpeft to watering the Nur- 
fcry-plants; tliis may be vtry rcquilite 
in dry hot weatlitr in fpring and fum- 
mer, to feed-beds and tender feedling- 
plants, while young, and when firft 
planted out till they have taken good 
root ; alfo occafionally' to new-liyed 
layers, and newly-planted cuttings, in 
dry warm weather; but as to hardy 
trees and fluubsof all forts, if planted 
out at the proper lime, that is, not too 
late in fpring, no great regard need be 
paid to watering, for they will gene- 
rally fucceed very well without any : 
indeed where there is hut a few, you 
nay if you pleafe vi-ater them a little, 
if it proves a very dry fpring in April 
and iviay ; but where there are great 
plantations, it v^-ould he an almofl in- 
supportable fatigue, and great expence j 
as in many public Nurferies, where 
they each winter or fpring plant out 
fifty orfixty thoufand trees and Ihrubs, 
and in fome double ihofe numbers. 

Every vyinter or fpring, the ground 
between the rows of all forts of tranf- 
planted plants in the opoj Kurfery- 
quarters muft be digged ; this is par- 
ticulaly necelfary to all the tree and 
fiirub-kind that Itand wide enough in 
TOWS to admit the fpade between; 
which work is by the Nurfcry-men 
called tnrning-in ; the moll general 
<eafon for which is any time from 
0(f>ci>er or November until March, but 
♦hefoonerit is done the more advanta- 
geous it will prove to the plants. The 
yround is to he digp-ed but one fpade 
tfeep, proceeding row by row, turning 
the top of eachfpit clean to the bottom, 
that all weeds pn the top may be 
buried a proper depth to rot : this 
v.'ork of turning- in is a moft necef- 
/ary annual operation, both to cfeftroy 
weeds, and ro increafe the growfh of 
tlie young Nurfeiy-plants. 

In tummsr be itmarkably attentive 
to keep all forts clean from weeds ; the 
feedlings growing clofein ihcfemiiiary- 
beds mull l^e hand-weeded, except the 
//lants of all f-jrts that grow in rows 
wide enough to i.itroduce an hoe : tiiis 
will prove not only the moll expe- 
ditious method of deftroying weeds, 
hilt by loofeningthe top of the foil, it 
will prove good culture in promoting 
?l»e growth of all if inds ©^ plants : aif 



ways perform this work of hoeing in 
dry weather. In due time before the 
weeds grow large, ai.d you may foon 
go over a large fpace of ground, either 
with a large drawing-hoe, or with a 
fcuining hoe, as you Ihall find the 
molt convenient. 

According as any quarter or com. 
partment of the Nurfery-ground is 
cleared from plants, others muft be 
fubllituted in their room from the 
feminary ; but the ground fhould 
previously be trenched and lie fomc 
time fallow, to recruit or recover its 
former vigour ; giving it alfo the ad- 
dition of manure, if itfhallfeem pro- 
per ; and after being trenched in ridges, 
and having the repofe only of one 
winter, orfummer, or a year at molt, 
it will fufficiently recover its vegeta- 
tive force, and may be planted afrelh. 

It will be of advantage to plant the 
ground with plants of a different kind 
from tt(ofe which occupied it before. 

The tender or exotic plants of all 
kinds that require ftielter only frorrj 
froft, whilft young, as we formerly 
mentiontd, and by degrees become 
hardy enough to live in the open air, 
fhould, fuch of them as are feJdlings 
in the open grounds, have the beds 
arched over with hoops, or rods, at 
the approach of winter, in order to be 
iTieltered with mats in fevere weather ; 
and thofe which are in pots, either 
fcedlings or tranfplanted plants, (hould 
be removed in October in their pots to 
a warm funny fituation, fheltered with 
hedges, &c. placing fome clofe under 
the fences facing the fun, where they 
may have occafionalcoveringof mats in 
froity weather ; others that are more 
tender may be placed in frames, to 
have occafional covering eitherof glafs- 
lights ormats, &c. from froft ; obferv. 
ingof all thofe forts here alluded to, 
that they are gradually to be hardened 
to the open ground, and need only be 
covered in frolty weather; at all other 
times let them remain fully expof- 
ed, and by degrees, as they acquire 
age and Itrength, inure them to bear 
the open air fully; fo as when they 
arrive at from two or three to four or 
five years old, they may be turned out 
into the open ground. The forts re- 
quiring this treatment are pointed ou( 
under t^sir proper heads. 



N U T 



N U X 



Nut. 5<-fFiLBri(T. 

JiijJJer Hut. Ste Klapdzk. 

FartAUvT, Stc Earth. 

Pfy/ic Nut. This plant grows 
naturally in the Wefl-India iflands, 
where the feeds are ufed as phyfic ; 
it rlfes with a ilalk to ilie height of it 
or 14 feet, 

Pz/JjiA/o Not, Sie Pljlachia. 

Mxabar Nut. See Malabai. 

;Aj// Nut. Set Walnut. 

NUTMEG, [Nux Mofchaia.]. The 
kernel of aroundifli nut which grows 
in the Eaft-Indies. The outfide cover- 
ing of this fruit isfoft and fleftiy, like 
that of a walnut, and fpontaneouHy 
opens when the nut grows ripe ; im- 
mediately under this lies the mace^ 
which forms a kind of reticular cover- 
ing ; through the filTures whereof ap- 
pears a hard woody Hiell that includes 
the nutmeg. Thefe kernels have long 
been made ufe of both for medicinal 
and Culinary purpofes, and defervedly 
looked upon as a warm agreeable 
aromatic. They are fuppofed likewife 
to have an aftringent virtue j and are 
employed in that Intention in diarrhoeas 
and dyfenteries. Their aftringency is 
faid to be increafed by torrefadlion, but 
this does not appear to the taAe : this 
treatment certainly deprives the fpice 
of fome of its finer oil, and thereifore 
renders It lefs efficacious to any good 
purpofej and if we may reafon from 
analogy, probably abates of its aftrin- 
gcncy. Nutmegs diftilledwith water, 
afford a large quantity of eflentlal oil, 
refembliBg in flavour the fpice itfelf; 
after the diftillation, an infipid febace- 
ous matter is found fwimming on the 
water 5 the riecoftion, InfpifTated, gives 
an extra£l of an unctuous, very lightly 
bitterifti tafte and with little or no af- 
tringency. Reftified fpirit extracts 
tlie whole virtue of nutmegs by jn- 



fufion, and elevates very little of It 
in diltillation : hence the fpiritumis 
extraft poirelTei the flavour of thtj 
fpice in an eminent degree. 

Nutmegs yield to the prefs (heated) 
a conliderable quantity of 'limpid yel- 
low oil, which incooling concietes in- 
to a febaceous confirtence. In the 
fhops we meet with three forts of 
unituous fubftances, called oil of mace, 
though really exprelfed from the nut- 
meg. The beft is brought from the 
Eall-Indies, in flonejars; tliis is of a 
tliick confirtence, of the colour of 
mace, and an agreeable fragrant fmell: 
the fecond fort, which is paler coloured 
and much inferior in quality, comes 
from Holland in folid maffes, gene- 
rally flat and of a fquare figure ; the 
tliird, which is the worft of all, and 
ufually called common oil of mace, is 
an artificial compofition of ferum, palm 
oil, and the like, flavoured with a lit- 
tls genuine oil of the nutmeg. Thefc 
oils yield all that part in which their 
aromatic flavour relides, in diftillation, 
to water, and to pure fpirit by in- 
fufion : the diftilled liquor andfpiritu- 
ous tindurc nearly refemble in quality 
tliofe prepared immediately from the 
nutmeg. The oflicinal preparations 
of nutmegs are, a fpirituous water, 
eflentlal oi), and the nutmegs in fub- 
ftance roafted. The nutmeg itfelf is 
ufed in thecompound horferadilh water, 
compound fpirit of lavender, cordial 
confeflion, cardlaleic trocli'js, and 
fyrup of buckthorn ; its elfentlal oil, 
In the volatile aromatic fpirit, and tht 
exprefled oil in mithridate and theriaca, 
ftomachic and cephalic plafters ar.d 
cephalic balfam. 

NUX VOMICA. This is the 
poifonous feed of a plant i;ro\virg ia 
Malabar. //^c:> /^ j^/'A! <^^^ 



OAK 



■ t.i ^ .1^") ! ' "nv- 



O. 



OAK 



OAK 



OAK, l^ercus.] Botanirts and 
nurferymcn rrckon a great riim- 
ber of fpecies ; but as we write chiefly 
for the ufe of the farmer, we (hall 
tonfinc ourftlves to the cultivation of 
the fovereign of the voods. 

The oak is a large free with a rough 
bark, fpreading branches, and large 
leaves, deeply waved at the edges : 
the flowers sre inconfiderable ; they 
area kind of bfown threads : the fruit 
is the acorn, ftanding in a cup, and 
growing in fome trees on a longer, and 
in others on a fhorter foot-f^aik 5 from 
which difference fome havediftinguifh- 
ed two kinds of oak. Others have, 
in the fame manner, divided the oak 
into two kinds, one of which rifes 
more in height, and the other, which 
they call the wild oak, fprcads more 
into branches. But thefe are accidental 
varieties, not rilrtinft kinds. 

The oak will grow in almoft any 
foil : this we fee in fa£l, as we find oaks 
on all kinds of land. We fee it on 
clayey, fandy, and ftony ground : but 
thofe who have made ftrift obfervations 
declare, that in the clayey foils it ob- 
tains mod firmnefs, but in thefe the 
growth is flow. The beft earth for 
oak, where there is choice, is a rich 
}oam. This is a found and commonly 
a deep foil. Too much wet is an 
enemy to the oak, fo that it fhould be 
guarded againft ; and 'tis principally 
for this reafon that it grows belt on 
fomewhat riling grounds, for they 
are naturally more dry than the abfo- 
lute flats on which the wet lodges and 
remains. 

When the ground Is too rnolft* the 
oak puts out moil branches, and the 
trunk is defrauded of its due noxirifh- 
meni ; in vsry dry and expofed places 
it grows low and (tubbed. 

The timber in too moilt ground is 



fofter, and in thefe Lilly and birriH 
places it is harder than its ufual quali- 
ty, but 'tis tliere of an uneven grain, 
and lefs ufcful. 

The fineft oak timber Is that which 
has grown on a firm good foil, rather 
inclining to clay than any other par- 
ticular quality, and where there is not 
too much moifture. 

The oak isBfopagated three ways ; 
firlV, from few, or the acorn ; fecendj 
by raifing in a nurfery, and then tranf* 
planting; and, thridly, by taking up 
young fets out of the woods, where 
they have rifen from the fallen acornsj 
and are ufually plentiful enough. 

Of thefe methods we altogetherpre- 
fer that of raifmg the oak from the 
acorn, in the place where it is to grow. 
The oaks from the nurfery are com- 
monly twice tranfplanted to come to 
rheir flanding place, and this gives 
them two checks greater or Ifefs } and 
difpofes them twice to an unevennefs 
in the growth : as to the fets taken 
out of woods, they are the worft way 
of all. Idlenefs or fmgality may tempt 
thofe who will not raifc, or purchafe 
the young fets out of a nurfery, to do 
this, bat thefe wild ones, having been 
raifed under too much fliade, are ufual- 
ly very ill fhaped ; and as they are 
planted out into more txpofed places^ 
they commonly get an ill growth. 
Of raijirg Oaks by Ttanip 'am anon. 

If any one in fpitc of thefe dif- 
advantages will plant the wild fets, the 
method he is to take is to cut them off 
clofe to the ground, with a fharp knife, 
and by a ftantingrtroki, asfoon as they 
are planted. This give* the root time 
to recover fome ftrength, and as it 
affords a new fhoot, that is often bet- 
ter than the original plant. But inr 
this cafe tlie difadvantage is plain, for 
it \i evitlcnt that it would bt better 

thw 



OAK 

this fhoot rcfe from the root than 
from a ftump. 

Thofe who raife oaks in a nurfery 
for tranfplantation mu<lobfervea dif- 
ferent method from wliat is to be fol- 
lowed by fuch asfow them wlicrethcy 
are to itand. They are to proceed 
thus. Let the acorns be (hook, as foon 
as fully ripe, from a itout branch of a 
•well-growing oak, and immediately 
fown in the nurfery, for the air withers 
them. 

They are to be fet in lines, at two 
Inches afunder, and about two inches 
and a half deep in the ground. They 
will fhoot the fucceeding fpring, and 
they (hould be fuffer'd to iland till that 
time twelvemonth : then tiiey are to 
be tranfplanted into another part of 
the nurfery, and fct at eighteen inches 
diltance, in rows three feet afunder. 
They are to he watered a little when 
firA tranfplanted, but this mull be care- 
fully done, for too much water is apt 
to hurt the oak, efpecially when young. 

The oak is a particular tree, and re- 
quires, as will as deferves, a particular 
care in its management. In many lit- 
tle refpefts the conduct is to be differ- 
ent from that obferved in the raifing 
the generality of trees j and it is to a 
want of regard to thefe, that fo many 
young oaks are loft more than of other 
trees. 

The young trees thus tranfplanted 
are to be watered fometimes in dry fea- 
fons, and kept clear from weeds. It is 
alfo good to dig between the rows : for 
this, by breaking the foil, affords them 
a greater fupply of nourifliment, and at 
the fame time it cuts off theflraggling 
or far-fpreading roots, which will make 
the young trees bear their next tranf- 
plantation the better. 

During the time they fland in thefe 
beds they are to be res^ulated in their 
growth, but in tl-is only a little is to 
be done. They who cut off the head 
deftroy the tree, for if there be not a 
leading (hoot to conduft the top, the 
whole will perifh. Neither are many 
of the fide branches to be taken off, 
but only fuch as tend to too much 
fpreading. The planter is to remember 
that the trunkof the oak is to be his beft 
benefit; hemufl therefore cut off fuch 
very fpreading branches, as would 
draw the fap away from h and rtarve 

Vol. II. O 



OAK 

it : but It Is prudent to leave a compe- 
tent number of the others, to draw up 
the fap. When an oak in this young 
ftate is too clofc pruned, the head is 
always feen to grow over pioportioned, 
and weighs down the tree, and fpoils 
its future progrefs. 

When the trees have ftood about 
four years ; that is, when they arc be- 
tween five and fix years eld from the 
fowing, they may beconvenirntly tranf- 
planted. They are at this time of a 
pretty fize and having been thus pruned 
(hew well. It is dangerous to move 
them in the common way, when they 
are older, for the oak bears removing, 
when grown to a fize, worfe than any 
other tree. 

The time for tranfplanting them is 
juft before they begin to flioot ; and it 
is prudent to chufe a (howery feafon : 
if no rain fall, they muft be gently 
watered, as before direded, and (taked 
lip to keep them ftrait. 

This is the method for rai(5ng oaks 
by tranfplantation J and when they 
are wanted for beauty and ornament, 
as for chumps in parks, and forwil- 
derne(res in large gardens, this is a 
very good way, becaufe they may be 
had of a proper growth from the com- 
mon nurferies : or from the owner's 
own (lock, raifed there for other pur- 
poftb. But when oaks are intended 
for timber ; and ufe and value are 
more fludied than ornament j 'tis by 
much the befi; method to raife them 
from the acorn, in the places where 
ihey are always to continue. 

Of ra'ijirtg Oakifrom the Acorn, 

When the oak is to be raifed imme- 
diately from the acorn, a different 
method, and different feafon, are to be 
ebferved for fowinj. 

Let the acorns :,e gathered when 
full ripe, from atliriving tree, and im- 
mediately fpread upon the floor of a dry 
(hady room ; when they have lain a 
week, frequently turning ti>t;m, let 
them be put up in large ga.ci.n pots, 
with a quantity of dry fand, and laid 
by for the winter. 

Early in fpring let the ground be 
marked out where the plantation is to 
be made, and at the dillance of forty 
feet every way, let the holes be opened 
for receiving the feed. Tliefe arc to be 
dug two fpit deep, and the earth well 
broken 



OAK 



OAK 



broken, fcuiorfive acrons ready topu t 
into each, and covered !>.• i> inches\decp, 
and vi'iicn they have (hot, aiui acquired 
■ littli Kf <^^^^'i| 3II tlie plants, except 
the one beft in each liole, are to be 
taken up, and that lingle pl,in: in each 
hole is to be nurfed up for fome years 
with due care. 

The head of thefe young trees is to 
be fuffered to grow, and none of the 
branches are to be cut away, except 
fuch as fpread out too wide, as in the 
nuifery; and ii it happen that in fpite 
of the care in the choice of tiiofe flioots 
which have been fuffered to Hand, any 
one bf uneven ; the beft method is to 
cut it off at the ground, and wait for 
a new and better fhoot. 

A plantation of oak thus made, if 
the foil be tolerable, ii a fortune for 
the fucceffcr in the eftate ; but it is 
not limited to that; men enter too 
late upon thefe ftudies, otherwife they 
night reap the benefit of their planta- 
tions themfelves. If a man would 
begin to plant at eight and twenty, and 
fh«uld live to fee fixty-three, there is a 
fpace of five and thirty year;, which 
is a time for raifmg even an oak planta- 
tion, flow as that is in growth, to very 
ccnfiderable value, though not to its 
full price, or nearly to that. 

It is not eafy to give what can bo 
called a middle calculation for the 
growth of the oak, it differs fo prodi- 
giouflyin refpeft of the foil, fituation, 
and other circumltances. We have 
feen oaks of thirty four years fourteen 
inches in diamater. 

An oak of this bignefs is but ad- 
vancing toward the proper time of 
felling, and towards its value ; but if 
the neceffitiesof the owner induce him 
to fell thefe, the price of the v/orft 
tree arr.ong them would pay for the 
labour and charge of the plantation. 

If the young pl.nnts, when they rife 
In thefe fpots, appear a! molt above 
the ground, or Hand too high with 
their roots, the beft method is to lay 
up a parcel of fine earth againft the 
bottom of that which is the mo.ft thriv- 
ing fnoot. Thi- happens fometimes 
from the acorns being no: fet deep 
enough, and fometimes from the wea- 
ther: for after a froft the mould will rife, 
and bear up the young fhoot with it. 
Acoms are not to be biried too 



deep, cfpecially in a moift foil, for they 
often rot : and, on the other hand, 
they mult not be fet too fhallow -. for 
it not only makes the Hioot ftand too 
high ; but frequently the field mice 
And them out, and devour the hopes 
of the plantation. 

The quantity of ground taken up 
by this plantation, at forty feet dif- 
tance, '*•> not to be fuppofed wafled t 
for though the oaks viill, in their 
larger growth, require that diftance, 
they do not at firlt. For many years 
afhes may be raifed upon the ground 
between the oaks, for poles, and cut 
to a great advantge. Underwood of 
all the ftirubby or coppice wood kinds 
may alfo be planted for a time, if the 
ground be fit for it : or it may be grazed, 
and will lofe little of its value for many 
years. Nay, the planting the trees at 
this diftance is the only way to preferve 
a value in the ground for thefe pur- 
pofes -f and when the foil is good, it 
will continue to yield fine pafture. 
Of the Ujesof the Oak. 

No plantation whatfoever exceeds 
that of oak, when made in this man- 
ner : and to thofe who will fuffer it 
to ftand a proper time, none equals ic 
in value. By this management the 
trees will all rife with a fingle flrait 
and upright ftem, and their branches 
fpreading every way with a beautiful 
regularity, make, when cloathed with 
their large and fair leaves, a beautiful 
appearance. Their fhade is preferable 
to that of any tree whatfoever : their 
very imperfeftions and excrefcences, 
the oak apples, oak cones, and oak 
grapes, are beautiful j and the air is 
perfumed and rendered healthy by 
blowing over them. 

Among the excrefcences of the oak, 
we have not followed the common 
cuftom of ranking the herb, called 
mifletoej becaufe it is not an ex- 
crefccnce, but a regular plant, rifmg 
from Its own feeds, but whofe place 
of growth is not the ground, but the 
bark of fome tree ; and no trees afford 
it fo feldcm as the oak. 

Its fiuir, which a good and well- 
grown oak bears annually in vaft a- 
bundance, is an excellent food fo? 
Hogs. No fruit feeds ihe-Ti fo well, it 
gives their Aelli alfo an excelknt tafte. 
The flavour of th-; Wsiiphiiia bam ; 



OAK 



OAK 



is owinjf to thlsfood. They are made 
Irom wild Iwinc that live in the fortrts ; 
and it would, doubtlefs, be an im- 
provement of our hogs flefh intended 
for that feivicc, if the creature were 
fed with acorns ; which can only be 
done to advantage by letting them run 
about. 

That they give a flavour to the flefh 
of fuch hogs as eat them in abund- 
ance, is not to be queltioned j for our 
country people, who are not accuilom- 
ed to that talte in bacon, always feed 
iheir hogs fome time with peafe after 
the acorns, to take cff the flavour. 

The cfFeft of food on crtatures in 
giving a tafte to their fiefh, is not to 
be doubted. Tiie Heath-Cock of Ger- 
many is not eatable in autumn, except 
by the peafants, becaufe its flelh taAes 
fo ftrongly of the Juniper berries he 
eats at that feafon ; and as to the e/Fcifl 
of particular food onhog^, an inliance 
is given in the Phifophical Tranfaaions 
of the very bones oJ a pig being tinged 
red, by its eating madder root at a 
dyer's. 

The hog is the creature that eats 
acorns moit freely and naturally, and 
is beft fed with them ; but what na- 
ture has meant as food to one animal, 
may, by proper management, or in 
neceffity, be made food to others j all 
poultry will eat acorns if broke fmall, 
and given them among other food, and 
nothing fattens them more. They 
have alfo been given to oxen, and other 
ca;tle, among their dry food ; and we 
read that before the cultivation of land 
was fo well known, they were, in part, 
the food of mankind. 

Their effeft in fattening the hog is 
fupported by fufficient experience. A 
peck of acorns a day, with a little 
bran, will, it is affirmed, upon good 
authority, make a healthy hog encreafe 
a pound each day in his weight, for 
fifty or fixty days together. 

The bark of the Oak ferves the tan- 
ner, and fetches a large price ; the 
dyers alfo ufe it ; and it has been 
difcovered fome years fince, that the 
young branchei of the oak cut and 
ground to pieces in a mill, anfwer all 
the purpofes of the bark, and that in 
as great perfedion on thefe occafions. 
We have meotiooed faw-duit among 



the articles ufeful as manures; and 
experience fliews that none is (otxcel- 
lent for that purpofcas the dull of the 
oak : this is natural enough, becaufe 
the oak is the moft firm and folid of all 
our timber. Thofe who have tryed the 
experiment fay alfo, that of the kinds 
of wood alhes ufed in diefling of land, 
the oak claims grtatly preference. 

All thefe howtvtr are but, as it 
were, accidental articles of value in 
the oak, its great worth is in the tim- 
ber, which in folldity, ftreiigth, and 
foimdnefs, exceeds alJour other kinds, 
and is therefore the moil fit for great 
andla:lingufes. Of all kinds of wood 
yet known in this part of the globe, 
the oak is in its fervice tiie molt uni- 
verfal. 

Eefideits prodigious ufe in our /hip- 
ping, it is called for, on a thoufand 
occafions, in buildings, and for in- 
ftruments. It relilis the Injuries of 
weather more than any other wood, 
which is not a wonder ; for even the 
fire takes efFeft upon it much flower 
than on any oth^;r limber whatfoever; 
andfome of itisfo hard that the bcfl 
loch will fcarce work upon it. 

In water-works, where the timber 
is expcfed both to the air and the 
water, no wood ftands like the oak : 
and no wood Is equal to it in the fup- 
port of burthens. The ebony and 
fome other foreign woods, when they 
are very hard and firm, cot as dif- 
ficultly as oak, but if they are tryed in 
thefupporting of hixthens, they Hart 
and fly under half the weight that a 
piece of oak of the fame fize will fup- 
port with perfeft fafety. 

Even the defefls, as they naturally 
appear of oak, ferve to give it IVength 
for certain particular purpofes. 1 ;;us 
it isnotunufual for an oak trunk to 
grow a little twilled -. thia may be dif- 
covered through the bark as it is itand- 
ing, but is very vilible when the tree is 
felled and flripp'd : the trunk of fuch 
an oak is ufeful beyond any other, for 
the fupporting vafl weights. V'here 
ports and columns are required for 
fuch a purpofe, nothing equals it. 

In buildings, the ftraitelt, finefl, and 
evenefl growing pieces of oak are 
ufually wanted, and they bring their 
price accordingly ; but for engines, 
whereavaft ftrength is required, the 
O 2 body 



OAK 



OAK 



body of one of ihofe flubbed, and rough 
gi .lined oaks, which are not fit (or 
odicr puri>ores, and which are fo hard 
that a tool will fcarce pierce them, is 
fuperior to any thing. 



is made of the oak is better than any 
other. 

Of the Grczv'.h cf 0<ik Trees. 
The growth of the oak is not only 



■"''_:".■' ". ' , ■'" , •■ - .„ . ,,,„ vary different on vaiious foils; but it 

There ,s no oak, wh>!e fo^und Im J^^^^ ^^^^^ ^.^^ obfervation.to 
„not fitted for fome pu rpofe rhofe ,,^^ ^^^^dingly at different period* 
parts wh.ch W.I not do tor greater uf«s ^/^^e fame place. For inllance, an 
».akei.ae„po.U, coopers ware and ^^^ has been obferved to grow very 
l:uhs; all wh.ch brmg the.r pnce to ^^^ ^^^1, for twenty fuc 

the owner: even the leaft l"ece. a.e y^ ^^^ ^^^ ^^^ ^^ ^1^.^ ^.^^ 

rvorked ,nto the pms and pegs ufed m .^ ,^^^ J^^^ ^^ ^ ^^^ ^^^ f„, ^^^ 

t>lm«: and that way are of value ^^ ^^^^^^ ^^^^ ,i^^,^ ^^ ^^^_ 

Oaks that grow crooked,, ana nrm ' 

withal, make what they call knae tim- 
ber for fliipping. Tlie knottieft and 
roughefl pcices are fit for piles in 
watei-v.biks; and mill wheels, and 
fpokts for other wheels, are made from 
the proper pieces. 

Btfideallthe ufes of the oak in its 
various conditions, confidered as a 
timber tree, we are yet to confider it 
as a part of the coppice wood planta- 
tion i and no kind is there more valu- 
able. The oak maintains its charader 
in every condition, and is every where 
of value. 

When the oak is fown among the 
coppice wood, to be felled with it at 
twelve or fourteen years growth, it 
yields excellent pchs for hoops. 'Tis 
ufiia! to make thefe of afti, and fome 



From this time it has begun to grow 
again, and has continued in its ufual 
way incrcafing vifibly in height and 
thicknefs. 

This, though feeming to arife from 
fome hidden caufe in the tree itfelf, is 
really owing to the foil. 'The tree be- 
ing planted in a good earth, fpreads 
out its roots, and flourifhes extreamly 
well, fo long as they remain within the 
compafs of that coat or layer of the 
ground ; but when they have pierced 
tlnough that, and got into fome other 
flarving and poor earth, they receive 
little nourishment, and the tree comes 
to a ftand. It would continue fo all 
along, were it not that the fame roots 
pufhing deeper and farther, find good 
foil again. Thus in the prefent in- 
rtance, the good foil holds the roots 



take hazel 5 but the prf rence ..due ^^^^^^^ ^^^^6 ^^^ ^^ ^^^^.^^^ 

to the cak hoopbeyotid all degree o „„^,i^,^,,„t j,,, „,, all that while 

compar.fon: the a(h does not exceed f^^^, ' At the end of that time 

the hazel for hoops half fo much as ^,, 3^, jn^o fome unfavourable 

- oal. exceeds tne aiTi . An oak hcop ^^^J ^^^^ ^^^^,^^ 

v,n artoutfevenofanyotherumber ^,>^^.^,^ ^.^^^^^^ J^ barely lives, 

The nnaller k.nds of poles ferve as ^^ ^ ^^ ^„ ^.„ ^^ l^^^ ^^^ 

fUves, and the leaft make our walkmg ^^ ^^.^ '^.s ^ ^^^ ^^^^^' .^^^j .^^^ 

1 he root of the oak, where ^^^^j.^.'^bed of good matter, fupply 



flicks 

it is kiiotty and firm, has alfo great 

beauty when ufed by the turner or 

inlayer. 

Thus we fee that this ferviceable 
ai'd univerfally ufeful tree fupplies us 
with materials of all kinds, as timber, 
from the ribs of a man of war to a 
walking flaff, and from the main beam 
of a houfe to the pe2;s in the tiling ; 
not tlio leaft particle o? it but is ufeful. 
Even fuch as is fit for nothing elfe in 
th»; coppice oak is good for firing ; 
vhetlicr fplit into billets from the 
lafgei piece?, or cut into faggots, it 
excels other wood. The charcoal that 



the tree as at firft, and it then grows 
and increafes again as it did from the 
beginning. 

It has been obferved already, that 
the oak will grow in any foil, though 
it thrives differently according to the 
nature of that earth : but the difference 
that is made by foils in the fpeedynefs 
or flownefs of the oak is not all : for 
the very grain of the wood is affefted 
by it. 

On barren heaths, where the bottom 

is flony, the oak is ill-grained and 

coarfe : the grain of that oak which 

has been raifed in fandy foils, is 

fmoother 



OAK 



OAK 



fmooihcr and cvener than any : but 
that wliich Jias been fed by a good nrm 
laam, inclining to clayey, is the riglit 
fubftantial and true gi aired timber. 

Thougli the oak will grow any wherp, 
it will be Itopped in i'.s growth by the 
interpolition cf a bed ot unfavourable 
matter in iu way i it will therefore 
be worth the planter's while to bore the 
earth with an auger where an oak 
plantation is defigned to be raifed : and 
that the planter may know to what a 
vart fize and value oaks will grow 
when the foil favours them, not only 
in condition, but depth, we fhall give 
him an account of what bignefs feme 
have arifen to in England, asfupported 
by unqueftionable authority. 

In Workfop Park the Duke of Nor- 
fork had an oak which fpread almoll 
three thoufand fquare yards. Near a 
ihcufand horfe might Itand under the 
fhade of it : Plot, in his Oxford' 
/hire, tells us of an oak at Clifton, that 
fpread eighty-one feet from bough end 
to bough end, and fhaded 560 fquare 
yards of ground. 'Twas computed five 
and twenty hundred men might (land 
fhcltered under it. The famous Robur 
Britanicum in Lord Norrey's park at 
Ricot, was computed to be able to 
fhelter between four and five thojfand 
men. 

The mainmaft of the old Royal 
Sovereign was ninety-nine feet long, 
and near a yard thick, all of one piece 
of oak j and fome cf the beams of 
that fhJp were made from another oak 
near five feet thick, and were forty 
feet in length. 

What mufl be the value of thefe 
trees is very evident; and there is no 
reafon why any man who will take the 
pains in raifing his oaks from the 
acorn upon the fpot with due care, and 
fee that the foil be perfeftly fit for the 
growth, may not leave an inheritance 
of fuch to his pofterity. 

The oak requires lefs lopping than 
any other tree, whether it be intended 
for beauty, or for ufe. Kature rarely 
over-proportions the branches to the 
trunk J and they fpread with great 
beauty, and grow in value with it. 
Of th£ Felling of the Oak. 
If it be true that an oak continue^ 
growing a hundred years, certainly 
'(is beA not to fell that tj «e till after 



the full period of the growth, wlien j: 
can conveniently be fuft'eied to fland li> 
long; but with a view of advantage, 
it is idle to think of its Handing any 
longer : for certainly it can never be 
better than when at a full maturity. 

This then is, in general, the befl 
time of felling, but no particular period 
can be limited for eacli utt ; for of 
thofe raifed from acorns of the fame 
foil, fome will thrive better than others. 
More things enter into the conlider- 
ation in the article of felling ti.e oak 
than any other timber ; as the fepara- 
ting of the bark for the tanners, and 
the like. The beft feafon is in April, 
which favours the feparation of the 
bark ; it then rifing freely and eafily. 

At this feafon the trees being mark- 
ed out that are to be felled, the firft 
thing to be done is to cut off fuch arms 
asmay damage the trunk inthelall. 
The manner of doing this is, by begin- 
ning below cicfe to the trunk: when 
they have thus cut the arm about a 
fixth part through, they begin at the 
top near the trunk aifo, and whtn they 
come near meeting the other cutting, 
the arm falls off without fplitting. 

When the branches that may be 
hurtful in the fall are thus removed, 
tiiey are to goto work upon the trunk, 
cutting it down as near as pofTibie to 
the ground, becaufe the length of the 
timber is a very great article in its value 
btfide the adding to its quantity. 

When the oak is down, its trunk js 
to be ftripped of the bark, which will . 
comecfF freely at this feafon, becaufe 
the fap is full and flowing : as the bark 
is taken off, fet it up in fuch a man- 
ner as it may dry beft. After this take 
off the bark from the branches that 
were left on, and fet up in like man- 
ner : when this is done, let the bran- 
ches be cut off, and then cut it into 
lengths for fale. 

Of the feafor.lng Oak, and judging f the 
Timber. 
The wood being thus felled and cut, 
the next confideration is the feafoning 
of it, which is done feveral ways ; but 
ail of them require time. Green oak 
is fit for very few purpofes ; and a 
great deal of its value in many cafes 
depends upon the feafoning. 

The plaineft and moil familiar me- 
thod h to truft to time only, taking 

care 



OAK 



OAK. 



caret© prevent accidents in the mean 
while. '1 iius )ei the timber, cut as 
bcKrediicded, be l^id up till dry in a 
drcful ntanncr. Let it be taken off 
the ^lound at a dry tirije, and laid up 
in ai) airy piact, but out oi the reach 
ot tlie lun, and dttcnded from the 
windo, both which crack it in drying. 
Let blocks be put between the fcveral 
jiitces, to give palTage to the air. 
It this be omitted, they grow moift 
and mouldy, or breed toadllools. In 
this manner time will take a proper 
elTcit, the timber will Hirink gradually 
and regularly, and being tliuo leafoned, 
it will (land when it is employed in 
buiidinj, or en other occadons. 

Anotiicr way of fealbnlng cak tim- 
ber is by burying it fcr fome time un- 
der ground : but thia muft be done in 
a dry foil, oiherwife it will require 
more fealoning when it comes out 
than it did when it was put in. 

The beft metiiod of ail for many 
purpofes, and particularly thofe which 
require the bcfl fcaloned timber, is 
that we learned of tlie Venetians, 
wh ch is called the water feafoning. 
This is done by finking the timber un- 
der water j and no way is fo good to 
prevent its fplitiing. The Venetians 
keep the timber for their feafervice two 
or three years under water before they 
ufe ir, and then it ftands firmly. 

The water feafoning is commonly 
done in England in this manner. 
Vv'hcn the oak is cut into boards, or 
pieces, they fink it under river water 
for fourteen or fifteen days. Then 
they take it out, and lay it up care- 
fully to dry in a cool airy place, as 
directed in piling up the frefh timber; 
prcfcrving it from winds and fun, but 
leaving t'ne air freepalTage among'.t k. 

Oak that is cleft is not fo apt to 
fpiit and crack as fuch as is entire: and 
round pieces are always more ready to 
crack than fuch as arefquared. Thefe 
are (landing rules, and the Workman 
it to condu<fl himfelf in his choice ac- 
cordingly, pieces that are bored through 
feldoni fplit. In general, the more the 
oak is in its natural condition, the 
more liable it is to fplit; and the more 
it has been cut and wrought, the lefs. 

Burning the ends of pofts of oak 
that are to be let into the ground, has 
been accouDte<i an excellent method 



to preferve them a long time ; zn^ 
fome have carried this pradlicc fo far, 
as toburn theends fo deep as to impair 
their flrength. It is at prefent much 
difputed by thofe who pretend experi- 
ence on their fide, whether this prac- 
tice be of any ufe at a:l. If not, 'tis a 
great deal of trouble thrown away. 

This burning naturally preferves 
that part of the pofl from the worms 
by which it is fubjeft to be gnawed 
under ground ; and the Dutch, to pre- 
vent the fame accident under water, 
cover over their piles and fhip bottoms 
with pitch and tar ; on which "they 
fprinkie fca fand with powder of fea 
fhells among it, and Aake5 of iron, 
fuch as fly oil in the hammering. 

In the choice of oak timber, th« 
purchafer fhould examine the weight 
and the grain ; the heavieft timber in 
this kind is always the beft forpurpofes 
that require great ftrength and (bund- 
nefs, and the fmoother and evener the 
grain, the better for moft occafions. 
Oak is not to be trufted in any nice 
works, till it has been well feafoned : 
and that from full-grown trees is pre- 
ferable to fuch as has been cut from 
fmaller. But v^^hen the tree has f^ood 
beyond its time, the wood becomes 
fomewhat brittle ; this is the &t(\ 
tendency in oak to decay. 

To judge of oak as it flands is an 
article of great confequence very frc" 
quently, and nothing is fo difficult : 
it is a common thing to purchafe trees 
ftanding ; and in oak 'tis of great im- 
portance to be able to guefs at their 
value. Were all good, nothing would 
be fo eafy ; for the quellion might be 
anfwered by meafuring, inftead of 
guefling ; but nothing is fo capable of 
deceiving as a tree while it Hands. 
There may be many infirmities which 
'tis impofTible to difcover till it is 
down ; and which then greatly lellen 
the value. Such as may bedifcovered 
we fhall point out ; as alfo the figns 
of decay. 

In the firlt place, if the head of the 
tree be in any part dead, 'tis a (hrevrd 
fign that there are more faults in the 
body : in this cafe it is a very good 
method to bore into the trunk with a 
fmall piercer made auger fafhion, and 
obferve the condition of what it draws 
out. 

If 



OAT 



OAT 



If in any tree there be a fwelling 
vein perceived riling above the level of 
the relt of the tree, and covered by 
the bark, it is a fign all is not well 
within. When this vein twiRs about 
in the manner of a llalk of ivy, it is 
worft of all ; and fcldom is feen but 
v.'here the heart of the trunk is rotten. 

Finally, another very good method 
of judging is, to open the earth about 
the roots ; and examine in what con- 
dition they appear. If they are frefh, 
found, and full of juice, it is a fign 
all is well above j but on the contrar)-, 
when many of them are found decayed 
without any viCble caufein thegroundj 
\khen feme ofjtbem are rotten, brittle, 
and mouldy, all is wrong in the body 
of the tree. This is a part not fo 
mcch attended to, but a decay here is 
a more fatal ngn than the deadnefs of 
a part of the head, 

Upon the whole, a great deal Is to 
be judged by the general afpeft, and 
that much more by thofe who are ac- 
cuftomed to thefe things than by 
ilrangers. There is a look of health 
in a tree that is perfedly well and 
found, which no other perfedlly has. 
And the' people who Ihould be judges 
are often deceived, yet it is their want 
of obfervationjor their want of know- 
ledge, that often leads them to it. 
There will be faults which no perfon 
whatfoever can difcover till they are 
feen in cutting through the tree j but 
the greater part of thofe which debafe 
the value, are not of this kind: they 
may be gueffed at leart, if not certainly 
known, fiomfome one or another of 
ihefe marl.« on a careful infpeflion. 

Ewrfrun Oak, [//Vx.J Holly. 
5« Holly. 

Oak of Jerufalejn, [Bstrys.l This 
plant is a native of America, wiiere 
the feeds are given for worms in chil- 
dren. It i3 propagated by fowingthe 
feeds in the fpring. 

O .'.}£. Bark. See Bark. 

OATS, [Avena.] The oat is 
diftinguifhed from other com, by the 
grain growing in loofe panicles. 

There are three principalfortsof it. 

I. The conunon, or manured white. 

». Tbe black oats : which are 
omitted in Gerard and Parkinfon, 
'.nough in feme parts of England they 
■lie moie fov/edtlian the former. 



3. The naked cat : much fowcd ia 
Coinwall. 

To thefe we may added two others, 
very conhderablc. 

4. The red or brown oatsj and 
fome, I fuppofe, reckon thefe the red and 
the gray, and all ot them compriie 
the laige Poland oat under tlie name 
of white j the feed of it being farougiit 
from Poland, gave it that name. And 
as it degenerates here in a few years, 
it is often brought new from thence. 
It is apt to ihed after rain. 

The white oat has undoubtedly tl)c 
larger kernel, and turns out more meal 
in the grincing than the bia.k oat j 
the meal of a bufliel of the wliite 
being near three |»ecks from tiie miln, 
and that of the black but two pecks ; 
but then the white oat requires licher 
land, and will not bear cold fo weU ; 
and as to every other article, but what 
they call the yield, the biack is equal 
to the white, if not fuperior in f»me 
partiiwulars. 

Oats, being a very temperate miJd 
grain, are tit for aimoll all manner 
of ufes and purpcfas any forts of corn 
can be j nnd being an hardy grain, it 
will grow in alnjoit any foil, and that 
with the leall culture of any grain 
whatfoever, and being very prolific, will 
all things confidered, be fou.nd the moft 
profitable of any grain whatfoever (ex- 
cept wheat.) 

It is commonly known and obfsrvsd, 
what great fatigues and Ir.bours the 
Scotch have frequently gone through, 
when fupported only by a fmaJl qj.^n.. 
tity of oatmeal, vv'hich is a irianifdl 
proof 01 the goodnefs and fjjlrit of 
that grain thiit could enable man to 
go through fuch toils and labours j and 
it is very well I;nown, chat molt of 
the northern peafants h.ive little elfe 
to fupport them in their hard labours, 
particularly in that of getting of flonej 
in which work they have been known 
to fwcat day after day, with no 
other nourishment but o:iC cake (bread) 
and water; and the better of them, 
with only an addition cl a little but- 
ter and cheefe, and a litrle whey or 
butter-railk to drink, feidom taliir.^ 
{\i(h meat or .-;ny malt liquor wiiat- 
foever, 

Oats, whcti malted, make a very 
pleHiaiit al-Tj .^n^ are frequently tied 

for 



O A 1" 



OAT 



for that pHrpofe : and they are iifcd in 
the kitchen in a thoufand particulars, 
in whicli the flour is preferred to the 
flour of all other grains j and there is 
no pietence to fet up any other as 
equal to it, except wheat, which to 
be ("urc is to he preferred before it. 

It is alfo exceeding proper for 
the feeding of all forts of fowls, and 
fwinc, making the fweetrft bacon 
of all feeds ; though it is thought 
very advifeable to give the fwine a few 
pcafe, toward the end of their feed- 
ing, in order to harden their fat. 

The excellency of oats, as the beft 
and mofl wholefome food for horfes, is 
allowed by all ; and that, when they 
have been kept till they are thoroughly 
dry, there is no danger of thofe dif- 
tempers which commonly attend, and 
are frequently fatal to thofe fed on 
beane. 

They are equally ufeful for the feed- 
ing the cow or the ewe, to help them 
to milk, and to nourifh their young ; 
and at the fame time will fupport the 
ox in his labour, orfeed him fat for the 
flaughter. And the ftraw is valuable 
for food for hearts, beyond that of all 
grain, and when fome of the lighteft 
oats are left in it, and only the bell 
threfhed out (which is called bat- 
ting) it is thought very good food for 
beaftsj and packs of hounds, and all 
other dogs, are commonly fed with 
oats, when ground down. 

As to the foils, it has been men- 
tioned that they will grow on all, and 
do very well on moft, where a crop of 
corn can be reafonably expe^Ved ; yet 
oats certainly do beft on the beft ground, 
for wiiich we may appeal to common 
experience, when they are fcwn at the 
firft breaking up good ground, or when 
the ground is well manured for them, 
which is common in the north ; and 
in the inftances before, and which 
will be mentioned hereafter, alfo ful- 
ly contirm the truth of this. 

The feed ufually allowed for an 
acre is four Bufhels } but in feveral 
places, they fow fix or more, where 
the ground is poor, or where fuch an 
ill cuftom has prevailed. In this ar- 
ticle of feed, the farmer ought to be 
careful in getting what is good, and 
changing it from different forts of 
foils 49 in any kind of grain whatfoever. 



fince he will find it equally beneficla. 

Foimerly they ufed nottofowoaf^ 
till March, but of late years they com- 
monly plow for them at the beginning 
of February, and fow and harrow them 
in from the middle of February, and 
fo on ; and now apply to them in this 
particular, the faying, the fooner in 
\he ground the fooner out; and find 
by experience, that their crops are 
generally ripe fooner than they former- 
ly were when fovved later. 

If the fowing be deferred long, as it 
fometimes is till April, then it Ihould 
be well harrowed in; and in fome 
places the wetnefs of the lani almoft 
obliges the farmer to the fowing fo 
late. 

Miller mentions oats as a very 
profitable grain, and that the u^ual 
produce is five and twenty buHiels ; 
though he has fometimcs known more 
than thirty on an acre. This is a very 
poor account of the produce of this 
giain, lince four quarters are common 
on very indifferent ground ; and fix 
or feven is no extraordinary crop ; and 
ten quarters are frequently had with 
only one plowing without any further 
trouble. 

There are three very confidcrable 
advantages the oat claims, which no 
other of the white corns do ; nor, 
indeed, any other fort of grain com- 
mon amongrt us, has any pretence to 
vie with it in, with the leafl appear- 
ance of reafon. 

The firft is, that it will grow and 
pay frequently very well on thofe 
lands, which will not anfwer to the 
fowing any other fort of grain : and 
this advantage is generally allowed the 
oat by all who write on this fubjeft ; 
which they have rather carried to an 
excefs in its behalf, when they fay, it 
will grow in all countries, and on 
all lands; that there is no ground 
too rich or too poor for it ; which 
cjnnot be faid of any other grain 
whatfoever. So that in this refpedt 
oats have undoubtedly the advan- 
tagej above all other grain whatfo- 
ever. 

The next advantage of the oat Is, 
that it is pretty certain to bring a very 
good crop, on the breaking up any 
any good meadow or pafture ground. 

riie third particular advantage of 
the 



OAT 

the oat Is, the benetlt arifing from tl't 
goodrefs of the rtra'.v lor food for cattle; 
and, toKrahlc good crops may on a 
medium be valued at twenty Shillings 
per acre, In which no other flraw can 
be compared to it as to the fwcetnefs 
of it for food i nor indeed is there any 
Other itravv but wheat of any value to 
fpeak cf. And thou?!! wheat Ifraw 
excel it for thatch.yet oatHraw v. ill Jail 
leveral years for th.it ufej and, on the 
whole, may juHIy have its llraw reck- 
oned aniongU the excellencies belong- 
in_c to the oat. ' 

There is another advantage It cer- 
tainly has ever tlie two mofl eiicemed 
fjrts cf grain, wheal and barley, which 
is, that it i:> got with lefs ['lowing, re- 
tjiiircs not fo fine a tilth, and not near 
Jo much manuring in general, as they 
do to procure an equal refpective pro- 
portionable good crop ; all which will 
befaved in the farmers outgoings. 

Laftly, It is fuperior to all other 
grain but barley in its capacity of re- 
ceiving the foreign erafles to be fowed 
with it, from which a great part of 
the advantage of all the new huibandry 
particularly depends, 

A hte writer gives the oat th.e pre- 
ference to barley, in this point, in the 
following worths : " An oat crop nthe 
" properert corn of all other=, to fow 
" any of the grafs feeds amongft, if 
** the ground is in heart, becaufe the 
" flalks of oats are apt to Hand ilifftr 
•*•' than barley, and thcre'-^y the crop cf 
*' grafs J3 in Itfs daneer of being 
" fpoiled." 

This author juftly obferves, "If the 
" ground is in he^rt," f;nce the lani 
fct apart for oats is very feidoni fo vieil 
manured for oats, when the grafs feeds 
are to befown in it, as it is for barley; 
and, confeauently, a lef; valcai.ie crop 
of the graffcs is to be exptflcd when 
the land is in a poorer coiiditicn : but 
the right way of judging is, when they 
arein the fame equal ccriditlon of good- 
nef>; and then to fee, whi^h would 
anfwer the beft. But even in this csfe 
I would r.ot infift on its fuperiority 
to barley in this particular, but only 
fay it is equal to it : for the oat has 
other fufficient advantages above the 
bailey in its particular departments 
or on lands in which barlsy cannot fo 
well be cultivated. 

Vol. 11. 



OCT 

0/ hcping cf Cms. 

The oat has one farther advantage, 
that it may be kept ihcfecureft and in 
the cafieli manner of molf forts of 
grain, if not of all kinds whatfoever. 

It is little fubjecl to receive damage 
when houfed in the barn, or placed in 
a fjjck, on nccount of the nature of 
the ftraw, which is both fwcet and dry, 
and the halt fubjedl to be mully of 
any fort. 

Oats will alfo keep very well when 
thre/hed, and laid by in the chaff, 
without farther trouble cr care, pro- 
vided tliey be not laid by wet, or wet 
be permitted to come to them, in 
fjch a degree as would fpoil any other 
CO n whatfcever. 

But the principal method of fecuring 
the product of this grain, where it is 
ufed as bread, is by firll grinding it, 
and making it into meal, and then'put- 
ting i: clofe down In an ark of wood, 
where it will keep good many years. 
This method is io well known in the 
countries where the meal is generally 
ufed for bread, that there U fcarce a 
family but has one of thei'e arks kept 
under lock and key, either in the 
dwelling-houfe, cr in fome building 
adjoining to it, or in their barns. In 
which thofc who are able, keep a fuffi- 
cient ftock for their families, from 
time to rime; and thofe who can keep 
it for a rifin*; market, often fell at the 
fame prcportionahle profit as thofe do 
who can fave wheat till it rifes. It is 
very common to put four hundred pecks 
of meal into oiie of thefcarks. 

JVild Oa t s. a fpecies of oats dif- 
fi';ult to be extirpated where they hav» 
once taken pciTcflion; for ripening be- 
fore harvcft, and fcactering their feed 
round them, they will remain in the 
ground till it is ploughed up again, 
thobgh it be for a whole year, fome 
fay four or five ye.us, and will then 
come up with the corn. The fureft 
way to dertroy tliem is to lay the 
ground down to clover, and to mow 
the oats and clover together before the ^ 

cats are ripe, /'^//•^//ir r/^/J:'<>P '2t-^fi<- ^ 

OCTOBf.R. 'The tenth month of 
the year, 

W:rk to It d»nc this montb in the 
Kitchtn Carder, 

As Ortober is the only time to crop 
a garden before winter, omit not any 
thing ordered new liil next month. 

F Ar'-- 



OCT 

Aromatic herbs and ftirubs, inbeds, 
weed J and fprcad fome earth over 
them. 

Afparagus-ftalks cut down, hoe the 
\vceds, and fpread earth from the paths 
on them. 

Hotbeds prepare for forcing, and 
plant (three-year-old plants) for the 
firft crop. 

Keans, the early Mazagan, miift he 
planted on a fouth border, for the firft 
crop, 

Borcole, plant out the third crop, 
and hoe the ground about the others. 

Broccoli, plant out the reft of the 
fourth crop. 

Cabbages, (av/n in Auguft, plant 
half out in a warm fituation. 

Cabbage Turnep':, plant early in the 
month, and earth up others. 

Carrots fown in July, finifh hoeing. 
Cauliflowers, plant fix to each ghfs, 
and the reft in a frame, or under a 
fotith wall. 

Celery, plant out the fifth and laft 
crop, and earth up the fccond to blanch. 
Coleworts, finirti planting. 
Crefs and Muftard.fow on a hotbed. 
Endive, tie up to blanch, and plant 
more. 

Efchalots, Garlick, and Rocambole, 
plant. 

Ground, which is vacant, throw in 
ridqes. 

Hoe Borecole, Brocoli, Cabbage^ 
and Cabbagc-Turneps, end draw up 
earth to their ftems. 
Hoe Carrots and Spinach. 
Hotbeds prepare for forcing afpa- 
ragus. 

Lettuces, plant out Cabbage and 

Brown Dutch on Afparagus beds, fome 

■underglaffes and on hotbeds for forcing. 

Mint, plant in pots on a hotbed. 

Mufliroom-beds cover well with 

ftraw and mats, to defend them from 

rain. 

Onion? mii^l be well weeded. 
Peas, tlie early hotfpurs, few en a 
fouth border, near the wall, for a firft 
crop. As alTo 

Plant Afparagus on a hotbed, the 
firft crop. 

Beans, Borecole, Brocoli, Cabbages, 

C ibbage Turneps, Cauliflowers, Celery, 

Coleworts, Endive, Efchalots, Garlick, 

Lettuces, Mint, Rocambole, 

Plant out, to ftand for feed, 

B^ets, Pair.?;.', Cabbages, Parfneps, 



OCT 

Carrots, Turneps. 

Pot herbs and fweet-herbs on beds, 
weed, nir up the earth, and fpread 
more over them. 

Seeds of all forts fliould be tbreflied 
out, dried, and put into bags. 

Sow crcfs and muftard on hotbedf. 
Peas on a fouth border. 
Spinach, hoe for the laft time be- 
fore winter. 

Weeds in every part of the garden 
muft be dtftroyed. 

Fliywer Garden and Shrubbery. 
Any thing ordered laft month, it 
omitted, finifli early in this. 

Auriculas and Carn.itions remove 
intofhelter, and in wet weather cover 
with mats. 

Bulbous roots for forcing, in pots 
or boxes, plant, and finifh planting all 
others. 

Evergreens ftill plant, but early itt 
the month. 

Grafs walks, finifh laying. 
Gravel walks, weed, and roll when 
dry. 

Layering of fhrubs, finifti, if not 

done. 
Layers and fuckers take off, if rooted. 

Leaves, fweep up frequently. 

Mignonette (hould be removed un- 
der glalTes, or elfe into a green-houfe, 
or warm clofet. 

Perennials, finifti planting. 

Plant bulbous roots, of all forts, in 
the beginning of the month, if not 
done. 

Box and Thrift early in the month. 

Perennials early in the month. 

Shrubs and trees of all forts, 

Strawberries and Thrift for edging. 

Tulips, and all other bulbous roots. 

Seedlings in pots, place under a 
fouth wall, and weed and earth feed- 
iings in beds. 

Seeds, gather in the middle of the 
day. 

Shrubberies, finifti pruning and hoe- 
ing- 

Shrubs and trees, finifti planting. 

Tulips, finifti planting early in the 
month, and all forts of bulbous roots. 

Turf.ftnifti laying early in the month 

Weeds ftiould he defiroyed by hoe- 
ing and raking off, or they will take 
root a?ain. 

Treci and Shrubs in Flonver, 

Althaeas, bramble, broom, clinriber, 

honeyfuckles, jelTamin, lauruftinus, 

paffjon* 



OLE 



O L I 



pafTion-flovyer, rofes,flrawberry trees, 
in fruit and flower. 

Flnoers. 

African marygold-, anemonies, af- 
ters, auiiculas, baifams, canipaniiias, 
carnations, china-alters, china-pinks, 
clirjfantheniums, colchiums, cycla- 
mens, daifics, French-mar>j.old3, gold- 
en rods, Gucrnfey lilies, lupines, mar- 
vel of Heru, mignonette, na^urtiiims, 
panfies, pinks, polyanthufcs, prim- 
lofes, f.iffron, fcarlet beans, fcabiufes, 
ftaiworts, flocks, funflowers, fvveet- 
pea;, fweet fultan, tuberofes, wall- 
flowers, and feme others. 

Fruit Garden and Orchard. 

Apples and pears gather in the mid- 
dle of fine dry days, and plant the trees 
ihc end of the month. 

Currants, goofeberries, and rafp- 
berries plant. 

Nedarinesand peaches plant. 

Orchard or fruit-trees intended to be 
planted fhould have the ground pre- 
pared and the holes digged beforehand. 

Plant fruit-trees of all forts. 

Prune all forts of wall-trees and 
ftonc-fruits. 

Strawberry-beds finifh drelTing. 

Vines prune and plant. 

Wall-trees may be pruned and 
planted. 

The Gnenhoufe. 

Give air very freely in the day-time. 

Earth the tops of the pots. 

Geraniums take in, early in the 
month. 

Leaves clean well before the plants 
are fet in order, and dead ones pick off. 

Myrtles may be taken in, towards 
the end of the month. 

O. anges (hould not remain out tiiis 
month. 

Succulent plants water fparingly. 

Watermy riles, oranges, winter cher- 
ries, and a!l woedy plants frequently. 

Windows open every fine day. 

OFFSETS. Young roots that 
fpring and grow from roots that are 
round, tuberous, or bulbous; alfo the 
locfe, outward brown Ikins, either in 
tulips, onions. Ice, 

OILS. The beards or prickles of 
barley, &c. 

OILY SEED, [.S^'irruw.] See 0.-/y 

GRAIN. 

OLEANDER, [AV;«w;.] Rofe bay. 
There arc feveral varieties ofthi^ plant, 
all fi-ie tvtfrgreen!, and producing large 



cluflers of fine ornamental flower? ; 
they are exotics, brought from the 
ifland of Crete, and both the Indies, 
but are hardy enough to bear the open 
air in fummer, and green-houfe in 
winter. They are propagated by layers, 
cuttings, and fuckers. 

OLIVE, [0/cj.J The fpecies are 
the European, common olive tree, and 
the cape box leaved olive. The Euro- 
pean rifes with upright folid (lems, 
branching numeroufly on every fide, 
twenty or thirty feet high ; fpear- 
fhaped, ftifF, oppofite leaves, two or 
three inches long, and half an inch or 
mere broad ; and at the axillas fmall 
clullers of white flowers, fucceeded 
by oval fruit. 

This fpecies is the principal fort cul- 
tivated for itsftuit; the varieties of 
v.'hich are numerous, varying in fize, 
colour, and quality. 

It is a native of the fouthern warm 
parts of Europe, and is cultivated in 
great quantities in the fiuth of France, 
Italy, and Portugal, for the fruit to 
make olive- oil, which is info great re- 
pute, and is tranfported to all parts, 
to the great advantage of thofe coun- 
tries where the trees grow in the open 
ground : the green fruit i-> alfo in much 
elleem for pickling, of which we may 
fee plenty in the fhops. 

The Cape Box-leaved Olive rifes 
with fhrubby (lems, branching nume- 
roufly from the bottom, fix or feven 
feet high j fmall, oval, thick, ftifF 
fhining leaves ; and at the axillas fmall 
cluflers of whitifh flowers j fucceeded 
by fmall fruit of inferior value. 

Thefe plants in this country muft be 
kept principally in pots for moving to 
fVielter of a green-houfe in winter; for 
they are too tender to profper well in 
the open ground here ; though fome- 
times they are planted againll a warm 
fouth wall, and fheltered occafionally 
from frofl in winter, by mulching the 
roots, and matting their tops; whereby 
they may be preferved, and will fome- 
times produce fruit for pickling ; a 
very fevere winter, however, often kills 
or greatly injures their young branches; 
thereforelet theprincipal part be potted 
in rich earth, and placed among the 
green-houfe fhrubs. 

Their propagation here is commonly 
by layers. 

The laying is performed on the 
P X young 



O L I 

young branches in Spring ; give plenty 
of water all fummer, and tliey will 
fomcrimes be rooted fit for potting- 
off by autumn ; hut fomttimea they 
require two Tummers to he rooted ef- 
fediially : when, howevrr, they are 
pioperly rooted, take them off early 
ill autumn, and pot them fcparately; 
^ive water, and place them in the fhadc 
t,ll they have taken tVclh root ; and in 
O^ober rfcmove them into the green- 
lioufe, &c. 

Thofe you intend to plant in the 
open-ground, as before fuggcfled, 
flwuld be kept in pots, in order to 
have occnfional fhelter of a garden- 
frame two or t! ree years, till they have 
acquired Tome fize, and are hardened 
to the lull air; then tranfplant them 
into a warm border apalnfl a wall : 
mulch their roots in winter, and mat 
their tops in frolly weather. 

IVild Olive,' [Oleajicr, FJceagr.ui . ] 
There are two fpecies, the nai row- 
leaved, and the thorny; both thefe 
trees merit culture, the hvA for tlie 
Shrubbery, the fccond for llie (tove ; 
their filvery- leaves render them very 
confpicuous, and efteas a delightful 
variety. 

Their propagation is eafily cfftfted 
fcy layers of their young fhoots, alfo 
by cuttings, which will be rooted in 
cnt year, and may then be tranfplanted, 
placing the hardy kinds in the nurfery, 
to have two or three years growth, 
when they will be fit for ti.e nimbbery. 
Wild Ol IX z of Barhjdon, IBonna.'] 
This plant is greatly cultivated in the 
gardens at Barbadces for making of 
hedges, than which there is not a 
moreproper plant to thrive in thofe hot 
countries, it being an evergreen, and of 
ijuick growth. We have been informed 
that from cuttings (planted in the 
rainy feafon, when tiiey have Immedi- 
ately taken root) thtjrehas tieen a com- 
plete hedge, four or five feet high, ifi 
eighteen months. In England it is 
prcferved in Hoves. It may be raifed 
trcm feeds, which iliould be fown on 
a hot-bed early in the fpring, that the 
plants may acquire ftrength before 
winter. When the plants are come 
up, they muft be tranfplanted out each 
into a feparate fmall pot, and plunged 
into a moderate hot-bed of tanners 
bark, ohferving to fliade them until 
they have taken roct j after which vhey 



ONE 

muft have .i large (hare of air in warm 
weather, and be often rcfi^fhsd with 
water. In winter they muft be placed 
ir) the (tove, where they (hould have a 
moderate degree of warmth, and but 
little watcrduring that feafon. Infum- 
mer they may be expofed abroad, in 
very hot weather, in a (heltered fitua- 
tion. With this management thefe 
plant, wi 1 produce flowers and fruit 
in three ) ears from feed. They may 
alfo be propagated by cuttings, whicll 
fliouid be planted in the fpring before 
the plants have begun to (hoot. Thefe 
mult be put into pots, and plunged 
into a moderate hot-bed, obferving to 
Hiadethein until they have taken root, 
after which tliey muft be treated as 
hath been diredled for the feedling 
plants, 'llicfc ])lants being evergreen, 
and growing in a pyramidical form, 
make a pretty variety in the ftove 
araongft other exotic plants. 

Sfurgi O L J V E . See Spurge Laurel, 
OLI 1 ORY. A kitchen garden. 
OLLET. Fuel ef any kind. 
OMY. Mellow, applied to land. 
ONE BERRY, [Paris.] Truelove. 
Thi^ plant growa wild in moid (hady 
woods in divers parts of England, but 
efpecially in the northern counties, and 
it is wiih great difficulty preferved in 
gardens, '1 he on'y method to procure 
it, is to take up the plants from the 
places where they grow wild, prefer- 
ving good balls of earth to their roots, 
and plaiii them in a (hady moift border, 
where ihey may remain undifturbed, in 
which fituatic'n they will live fome 
years ; butasitisa plantof little beauty, 
it is rarely preferved in gardens, 

ONE BJ.ADE, [SkUux.] There 
are twelve or thirteen fpecies, moftly 
of a (hrubby, climbing growth, fome 
hardy, and lome of tender nature, but 
it is principally fome of the hardy 
kinds thiit are efleemed for culture in 
ourgardens, having long trailing (ialks, 
fome armed v.ith prickles, others are 
unarmed, r.nd moltly climb by means 
of cirrhi, or clafpers, upon the adja- 
cent trees and bulhes, many feet high, 
which renders them proper furniture 
for thickets and wildernefs quarters, 
Sec. are all exotics from ditierent for- 
eign; countries, both in Europe, Alia, 
and America; ccnliiiing of fevcral 
(hiubby, and one herbaceous kind for 
h.udy plantations, and fome ihrubby 
(bits for the green iioufe, SiC. 



ONI 



O N I 



The hvl> kinds ar« propagated hy 
flipping the toots, by layers, and by 
feed. 

The tender fpecies may he propa- 
eattd by layers, and by dividing tlie 
foots. Tciform the laying in fpring 
on the young (hoots, which by autuma 
or fpring following will be 6t for pot- 
ting off feparately : and by rotns, thcfe 
being (lipped in March or AprlJ, and 
the off fcts potted feparately, they will 
foon take root; managing the whole 
a!> other woody exotics of the green- 
houfe. 

OKION, [Ctf:a.] The varieties are, 
Strafburgh or common oval onion, 
Spani(h (ilver-flvinned large flat onion, 
Spani(h red-flvinned large flat onion, 
Portugal great oval onion. 

Oi thtfe four the Sirafburgh is the 
bed for general culture; itisahand- 
fome bulb, generally alfuming an oval 
/hape, is of firm growth, and keeps 
well for winter fervlce. 

Tl)e Spanifh onions are large and 
flat, the white fort isof mildeft tiavour. 
Both the varieties generally turn out 
very profitable crops, and none excels 
them for culinary purpofes, but they 
rarely keep fo well after Chrillmas as 
the Straiburgh or oval onion. 

The Portugal onion is a very large 
handfome bulb, of fomewhac oval 
fhape, altliough they rarely attain the 
fize here as in Portugal, Sec. as is obvi- 
ous by thofe imported annually, from 
that kingdom by the orange mcrciiants. 
If, however, feeds laved in Portugal 
are (own here, the bulbs will arrive at 
a much larger (ize than from feeds 
f'ived in England, efpeclally if faved 
tvvfo or three jtars (ucceffively, which 
will often be fo far degenerated, that 
the bulbs become flat, and not larger 
than tlie common onions. 

This fort being very mild, is greatly 
efteemed for fauces, and other ufcs 
in cookery. 

All thfcfe forts are propagated by feed 
fown annually ; which, for the general 
crops, the proper fcafon is from about 
the twentieth of February until the 
litter end of March, obferving how- 
ever, in cold, wet, (lubborn land, it 
is proper to defer fowing entirely un- 
til towards the middle of ihe la(t named 
month. It is likcwife to be remarked, 
that in cafes of omifTion in fowing at 
t!;e times above-mentioned, it may be 



performed In molft rich foils, with to- 
lerable luccefs, anytime bj;foretlie ic,t.l} 
of April; but remembering that tlie 
crops of the February or March fow- 
ing always bulb more freely, and ac- 
quire a much larger growth ilian thofp 
fown later. 

The proper fituatlon and foil for 
thefc crops iliouid bean open expofure, 
and the land moderately light and rich ; 
chufing however a fpot of the beft mel- 
low ground in the garden, with the 
addition, ifpofTible, of a good coat of 
rotten dung, which (hould be dug in, 
one fpade deep, obferving to preferve 
a level furface; and while it is freffi 
ftirred, let the feed be fown, which is of 
particular importance. Do not liow- 
cver fow it when the furface is fo wet 
or moid as to clog to the feet, or rake. 

The properquantlty of feed is about 
an ounce to every rod or pole of 
ground, but if ic is not required to 
have them thick for culture, two oun- . 
ces for three rods is fufiicient. 

Be particularly careful to procure 
frelh feed ; for of tliat which is more 
than one year old, not c.^e in fifty will 
grow. 

The feed may *:itherbefown ail over 
the piece or piat of ground, and raked 
in ; or the ground may tirft be divided 
into beds of four of five feet, allowing 
foot v.ide alleys between; ilien fow 
the feed with a regular Ipreadin? cuft^ 
and immediately tread the furface over 
evenly; then pare the alleys an incli 
or two deep, and ca(t the earth over 
tlie beds, and direftly proceed to rake 
them length-ways, keeping an even 
liand, and trim off all rtones. 

The fowing them in beds is certainly 
the mOil eligible pi aclice, when it is 
d^figned to draw or cuJl the young oni- 
ons ("rom time to time, for marr:et or 
family fervice, bccaufe in fuch cafes a 
perfon can Itand in the alleys without 
treading at every turn upon thebe.o, 
which renders the furface hard, to the 
detriment of the crop, as well as un- 
voidably trampling ujion the plant3 
themfelves ; and it is likeviife very con - 
venient to ftand in the alleys to weed, 
tl.in, or hoe the crop. 

It is a common jjradice in the ge- 
neral culture of onions to fow them 
thick, to allow for culling or drawing, 
out the fuperabundant plants by de- 
grcci a ll'.cy ars wantfd. We, how, 
ever. 



O ^ I 

ever, atfvife to fow a piece pirtlolarly 
for general culling, ex^lolrvc of the 
main croj>, for by a duly thirtning out 
the fuperflu. us plants, there is no 
avoiding treadinj; upon, dilturbing, 
and locfcningthe remaining ones, and 
the'pl*f^ts thereby become of ftintc-d 
jrowth. 

In fifteen or twenty days after the 
feed is fown, the plants will appear; 
and in a month or fix weeks after that, 
they will be three or four inches high, 
and weeds will be numcfDus, when 
they fhould be cleaned from wectfs, 
and thinned to three or four inches 
diftance. The weeding and thinning 
fhould be began in due time, before 
the weeds branch and fpread, which 
may either be ptrformtd by hand or 
fmall hoeing; the btttr Is the mofl 
expeditious method, as one man msy 
do as much as three, and is alfo the 
moft beneficial t the plants, for by 
rtirring the ground about them with 
the hoe, it will greatly facilitats their 
growth, as will be obvious in a ftw 
days after the operation ; a fmall hoe 
two inches broad is the proper fze ; 
cliufe dry weather, cut up all weeds, 
and where the plants fland cicfe, (ut 
them out to two or three inches dif- 
tance each way, having regard to leave 
the llrongeft and mo(\ promifing plants. 

Jn a month after run over them 
a?ain with, the hoe, and cut up weeds, 
and any fupei fiucus plants that efcaped 
you the firft time; after this they will 
require no farther culture than pulling 
out ftraggling weeds. 

In July the plants will begin to fwell 
greatly at bottom, and in Augurt the 
bulbs will be fully grown. 

Towards the middle of Auguft, 
therefore, examine the crop in general ; 
when the necks Ihrink and fall, and 
the leaves wither, it may be prefumed 
the bulbs are arrived at maturity, an<l 
are done g' owing, and fhould be pulled 
up, cleaned, dried, and houfed forufe: 
this (hould be done in dry weather; at 
tl>e fame time hoe and rake a piece rf 
the ground clean, and as you pull the 
onions, fpread them thereon to dry and 
harden. Here let them lie about a 
fortnight, turning them every day or 
two, wlien, if the weather proves dry, 
they Will be duly prepared for keeping, 
then tske the hi it opportunity to hcule 
ibcna b:.toie wet weather prevails. Let 



ONI 

the bulbs be firirdiverted of all adher- 
ing earth, loofefkins, and the grofTeft 
parts ol the leaver and neck, rtjcding 
all 'inicflious an J bruiftd ones; and 
carry them into any dry upper room 
out of the d.'imp, fprcading them on' 
the f!oor not more than a foot thick, 
but if rocsn to lay t!>cm thinner, it will 
be an advantage. 

Ciring now houfed, the clofer tiic 
room is kept the better, obferving to 
turn them over once in three weeks, 
and clear out fucli as liave any ten- 
dency to infe(fHon, which they would 
foon communicate to others in their 
neighbourhood, and it would become 
general. 

In the culture of onions It often 
happens that, through badnefs of feed, 
many are difappointed of a crop, by 
waiting long in expe<^a:icn of the 
plants riiiii:^, till it has been too late 
to fow again. In this recourfe may 
be had to tranfplantation from other 
gardens, either from a neighbouring 
one, where there are fuperfluous crops, 
or may purchafe a bed, or fuch part 
of one as is necefTary from a market 
gardener; this fhould be done in May, 
or csriy in June, and if pofTihle in 
moid weather; having a fpot of well- 
dungtd ground prepared, take up the 
plants with good loots, and plant them 
in rows fix inches diltance, and four 
inches afundsr in eac!) row, giving di- 
reftly a hearty watering. 

Repeat the waterings occafionally 
for a week or fortnight, and the plants 
will grow freely, and you will not be 
difappointed ; they will form hand- 
foine 'lulbs. 

Onions for pickling are in great re. 
q'.jift. Tlicfe proper for that purpofc 
Ihould not be bigger than common 
round buttons ; to procure which in 
due quantity,fomefeed (h. uld be fown 
Lte in a fpot of light poor land ; about 
the middle of April is the proper time : 
fow it moderately thick and the plants 
netd not to be thinned, except they 
rife in very thick duflers. They will 
bulb in June and July, and be fit to 
take up in Augurt. 

Right pickling onions fell well in 
the markets ; thofe that are cleaned and 
trimmed ready for the pickling tub 
fe'ch from eight to twelve Ihillings per 
bulhtl. 

In the fpring many of the keeping 
onion* 



ONI 

enions will unavoidably grow as they lie 
in tlie lioufc, tltcfc may be planted out 
In row» fix inclici iliilancc, and will 
fcrve to diaw up by way of (.fcaliion^. 
Of the Auiuir.n or Michaelmui <.rop, 

1 his crcp ii generally fown in Au- 
guft, and the plants arife bcfoic Mi- 
chaelmas, Aand the winter, and are 
intended principally for fpring fcrvlce, 
to draw up lor young fallads, &c. and 
likewife, if the Strafburgh or any other 
variety of the common onion art fown, 
they, if permitted to ftand, will bulb 
tea tolerable fize in June, and fupply 
the kitchen or market as headed enions 
till tliofe oi the fpring crop arc bulbed. 

But as the common onion is 1 able 
to be cut otf in iK.si.x^ winters, it is ne- 
ctrff.iry alway-) at the fame lime to fow 
foine beds of Welch onions, which 
bid defiance to the moft rigorous froll. 

V/e obfeived above, that Augull is 
the feafon for fowing thefe crops j it 
is to be remarked, that in warm rich 
land, from the filttenth to the twenty- 
fifth is the proper period; but in ccld 
or poor ground, always fow in tlie firlt 
or fecond week of that month, obfer- 
ving to fow them in beds four feet 
wide,with twelve- inch alleys between ; 
do not fpare {nA, and tread and rake 
it in as dire£led in the fpring crop. 

The plants will appear in a fort- 
night, and with them numerous weeds, 
to which early attention mult be had 
to clear them out by hand before they 
be^in to fpread, but the plants of this 
crop are not now to be thinned. 

In November and December how- 
ever, if they Hand %ery thick, fome of 
the largeft may be thinned out occafi- 
cnally ior ufe. 

Of fa-ving feed of th'n f(:ecses 

February is the proper time to plant 
onions for feed, though this is often 
done in Od^ober by thofe that fave great 
quantities for fale. 

for this purpofe make choice of a 
due quantity of the largeft and Iiand- 
fomcft bulbs, rejefting all blemiihcd 
ones, and fuch as have already made 
any ttjort to grow, and having made 
choice of a fpot cf ground well ex- 
pofed to the fun, which beir.g dug, 
proceed to plant the onions ; flrain a 
line, and with a hoe or fpade open 
three drills, twelve inches afunder, 
and f\x. deep, place the bulbs thertin 
nine inches didance, and laHe the 



earth over them ; incafure olTtwo t'oet 
Ijr an -iJJey, and in that manner pro- 
ceed to the en<' ; the \vjde fp'.iC' s of 
two feet is by way of alleys to e.o be- 
tsv-en to hoe .jnd clear eft" weeds, as 
well as to ftakc .md fupport the Aalkt 
of the planis when netcir.iry. 

In June the flowvr llaiks will be 
fhot th^ir lull hciglit. and the fio^ver 
heads w.ll be formed at top, to fecure 
which in ercdl pofition, drive fome 
rtout rtakes in the ground al^ng each 
low, at two yards diftance, and fiom 
flake to flake fallen ccuhle lines. of 
packthread, and if thefe aic ;ied to- 
gether in the intervals between the 
ftems of each plant, it will tfFeituaily 
fecure them. 

About the latter ead of Auguff the 
feed will be ripe, which is very difco- 
verable by the capfules opening, „nd 
black colour of the feed ; cut the 
heads in a dry day, and fpread them 
upon cloths in the fun, but remove 
i.hem under cover at night; and in a 
week or fortnight beat or rub out the 
feed ; clean it out from the rubbilh, 
an d put it up in oag; for ufe. 

Good onion feed is a very material 
article to be attended to : it is to be 
remarked that this feed never germi- 
nates Ireely alter thefirft year, but not- 
vvithftanding this, feeds-men are very 
apt to mix more than h.alf old feed 
wiiii their new, to the great lofi and 
difappointment of many; to try its 
goodnefs, fome, before they venture 
their general crop, fow a little in a 
pot, and place it in a moderate hot- 
bed, or near a fii e : but the moft expe- 
ditious method is this ; tye about a 
tliimble-full of the feed loofely in a 
piece of linen rag, and put it into a 
velTtl of boiling water, fufpended by 
a thread; in ten or fifteen miutes pul! 
it out, and if the fc;ds are good, they 
will in that fliort fpace of time be ger- 
minated or chipped, perhaps a quarter 
of an inch in length. 

Leek, & other feed of fimilar nature, 
may be tried by the fame experiment. 

IVcLh Onions. A fcit of onions 
propagated by gardeners for the ufe of 
the table in fpring ; they never make 
any bulb, and are therefoie only to be 
eaten green with fallads. 

They are propagated by fowing their 

feeds towaids the end of July, in bed* 

of a dry but ricli foil; and in three 

weeks 



weeks after fowing they will appear 
above ground ; when they muMt be 
kept veiy free from weeds. About 
Oftober all tlitir leaves die away, 
t%'hich has occafioncd fome to think ail 
the plantation loft, and to dig up the 
ground for fome other ufe ; but if they 
are fuffered to ftand, they will fhoot 
up again very ftrong in January, and 
Ironj that time will grow very vigo- 
roufly, refill all weathers, and be fit 
to draw in March, when they will be 
extemely green and fine. They are 
much Itronger than any othtr fort cf 
OTiions, and have much of the tafte of 
garlic. 

Sc-a Onion. Srt Sc^uitr.. 

OPIUM. In the materia medica, 
IS an inrpilTited juice, partly of the 
refmous, and partly of the gummy 
kind, brought to us in cakes fro?n 
eight ounces to a pound weight. It is 
very heavy, of a deofe texture, and not 
•perfeftly dry, but in general, eafily 
receives an imprelTion from the finger: 
its colour is a brownilh yellow, fo very 
Hark and dulky tlut at firft fight it ap- 
pears black: it has a dead and faint 
fmell, and its tafte is very bitter and 
acrid. It is to be chofcn moderately 
firm, and not too foft; its fmeli and 
tafte fliould be very ftrong, and care is 
to be taken that there is no dirty or 
Itony matter in it. 

Opium is the juice of the papaver 
album, or white poppy, with which 
the fields of Afia .Minor are in many 
places fown, as ours are with corn. 
When the heads are near ripening, they 
wound them with an inftrurr.ent that 
has five edges, which en being ftuck 
>nto the head makes at once five long 
cuts in it ; and from, thefe wounds the 
.cpium flows, and is next day taken 
off by a perfon who gofs round the 
field, and put up in a vefiel, which he 
carries faltened to his girdle : at the 
fime time that this opium iscollefted, 
t'»e onpofite fide of the poppy head is 
'.\'Ounded,and the opium coiiecfedfrom 
it the next day. They diilinguifh how- 
ever the produce of the firft wounds 
from that of the fncceeding ones, for 
the firft juice afforded by tlie plant is 
greatly fupcrior to what is obtained af- 
terw.:rds. After they have colledted 
the cpium, they moiften it with a 
frtisU quantity of water or honey, and 
vork VI -a long time upon a flat, hard, 



O P I 

and fmooth board, with a thick and 
(trong inrtrument of the fame wood, 
till it becomes of the confiftence of 
pitcli J and then work it up witli their 
hands, and form it into cakes cr rolls 
for fale. 

Opium at prcfcnt is in great cfteerA, 
and is of one of the mo(! valuable of 
all the fimple medicines : applied ex- 
ternally it is emollient, relaxing and 
difcutient, and grcarly promotes fup- 
puration ; if long kept upon the Ikin it 
takes off thehair, and always occafions 
an itching in it ; fometimes it exul ce- 
rates it, and raifes little Llifters if ap- 
plied to a tender part. Sometimes, on 
external application, it allays pain, 
and even occafions fteep : but it mult 
by no means be applied to thehead,ef- 
pecially to the futures of the (kull, for 
it has been known to have the molt ter- 
rible effedls in 'this application, and 
even to bring on dearh itfelf. 

Opium taken internally, removes 
melancholy, eafes pain and difpofes to 
fteep J in niany cafes removes haemor- 
rhages, provokes fweating, and is a 
piovocation to venery ; and in general 
has a greater effect on women and 
children than on men. A moderate 
dofe is commonly undera grain, though 
according to the circiwnftanccs two 
grains, or even three may be within 
tlie limits of this denomination; but 
cuftom will make people bear a dram 
or more, tho' in this cafe nature h vi- 
tiated, and nothing is to be hence 
judged in regard to others. If given 
difiblved, it operates in half an hour; 
if in a folid form, as in pills, or the 
like, it is jfometimes an hour and a 
half. Its firft cffeft, in this cafe, is 
the making the patient cheerful, as if 
he had drank moderately of wine, and 
at the fame time bold and above the 
fear of danger; for which reafon the 
Turks always take it when they are 
going to battle. A very immoderate 
dofe L-rings on a fort of drunkennefs, 
much like that occafioned by an im- 
moderate quantity of ftrong liquors ; 
cheerfulnefs and loud laughter at firft, 
then a relaxation of limbs, a lofs of 
memory, and IJghtheadednefb ; then 
vertigoes, dimnefi of the eyes, with 
a laxity of the cornea and a d latation 
of the pupil'-, a flownefs of the puife, 
rednefs of the face, relaxarion ot the 
under jaws, fwcUing of the lipS; dtf- 
nculty 



O R A 



O R A 



ficulty of breattiinp;, painful ere£lion 
of the F>enis, convulHons, col^fweats, 
and, finally, dtatlt. Thofc wlioefcapc 
arc ufually relieved by a gicat number 
of rtools, or (jrolule fweats. People 
who have gradually accullomed them- 
felvei to an immoderate ufc of opium, 
are fubjctfl to relaxations and weak- 
ocffe^i of all the parts of tlie body :' 
they arc apt to be faint, idle, and 
tlioughilels i and are generally in a Au- 
pid and uncomfortable liate, except 
juft alter they have taken a frefh dofej 
in ihort, they lofe their appetite, and 
grow old before their time. 

Prepared opium, commonly called 
cxtraft of opium, is made by diflbl- 
ving opium in a fufficient quantity of 
water with a gentle heat j then ftrain- 
ing the folution from the fseces, and 
evaporating it to the confidence of 
honey. Tindlure of opium, or liquid 
laudanum, otherwife called the thebaic 
tinfture, is made as follows : take of 
prepared opium two ounces ; of cin- 
naraon and cloves, each one drachm j 
of white-wine, one pint : inlufe them 
a week without heat, and then filtre it 
through paper. Quincy obferves of 
this preparation, that tlie addition of 
the fpices arc of no ufe. 

OPODELDOC, A liniment in 
much elteem for fprains, &c. it is thus 
made : 

Take fpirit of rofemary one pint, 
Soft foap three ounces, 
Camphor one ounce. 

The College of London direft hard 
foap, but folt foap is moll generally 
ufed. 

ORACH, [Atri}>hx.'] Arrach. The 
fpecies are, i. Pale green, or white 
garden orach. 2. Broad-kaved, or 
fhrubby orach. 3. Shrubby fea orach. 
There are feveral other fpecies, feme of 
which grow naturally in England, but 
as they are plants of no beauty, they 
are rarely admitted into gardens. 

The firft of thefe plants was for- 
merly cultivated in the kitchen- garden 
as a culinary herb, bein,"; ufed as fpi- 
nach, and is now by fome perfons pre- 
ferred to it, though in general it is not 
erticmsd amongft the Englirti ; but the 
French at prefcnt cultivate this plant" 
for ufe, as the people in the northern 
parts of England alio do. 

The fecond fort was formerly culti- 
vated in gardens as a Ihrub, and by 
fome perfons were formed into hedges, 

Vot. II. 



and conflantly Sheared to keep thick; 
but this plant is by no means fit for 
fuch purpofes on many accounts, for it 
grows too vigorous j tlie fhoots in one 
month at the growing feafon of the 
year will be two feet long, provided 
they have a good foil, fo that a hedge 
of this plant cannot be kept in tolera- 
ble order, nor will it ever form a thick 
hedge. But a worfe inconvenience 
attends this plant, for in very hard 
winters it is often deftroyed. 

It may be propagated by cuttings, 
which may be planted in any of the 
fummer months on a Ihady border j 
they will foon take root, and be fit to 
tranfplant the Michaelmas following, 
when they Ihould be planted where 
they are to remain. 

The third fort grows wild in divers 
parts of England, on thefea-fide, from 
whence the plants may be procured; 
or it may be propagated by cuttings in 
the fame manner as the former fort. 
This is a low under fhrub, feldom ri- 
fing above two feet and a lialf, or at 
moft three feet high, but becomes very 
bufhy. This may have a place amongft 
other low fhrubs, and if planted on a 
poor gravelly foil, will abide feveral 
years, and make pretty diverfity, 

ORANGE TREE, {Aurantium.l 
The fpecies are, the Seville Orange, 
the China Orange, the Shaddock, or 
Pumplemoes, the Horned Orange, the 
Hermaphrodite Orange, the Willow 
Leaved, and the Dwarf or Nutmeg 
Orange. 

There are many more lefs material 
varieties than are here noticed, in the 
countries where they grow in the open 
ground ; and the varieties, like our 
apples and pears, may be multiplied by 
feed without end : but, like other fruit 
fo ra'ifed, it is probable there may not 
be one in a hundred worth notice, fo 
that the approved forts can only be 
continued with certainty by budding. 

The flowers of all the fpecies and 
varieties are formed each of five fpread- 
ing petals, appearing here principally 
in May or June, and the fruit continue 
fetting in June and July, and ripen the 
year following, ' 

All the forts are elegant evergreens 
of the tree kind, obtaining in England 
from about five to eight or ten feec 
Mature, forming full and handfomc 
heads, cloftly garni fhed with beautiful 
large leaves the year round, and a pro- 
Ci_ f'fwn 



O R A 



O R A 



fufion of fweet flowers, In faring and 
?ariy in funfimer, whicli, even in this 
country, are often fuccesded by abun- 
dance of fruit, fometimcs arriving to 
tolerable perfeflionj but the chief 
nuric of thefe trees in England is for 
ornament, which conlifts not only in 
their beautiful foliage, but alfo in the 
flowers and fruit, and have this pecu- 
liar merit, as to exhibit blolfoms, green 
fruit in difi'crent (lages of growth, and 
full-grown ripe yellow fruit, all at the 
fame time; which, together with their 
large (hining green leaves, effect one 
of the moft beautiful contrails of our 
gardens, which renders all the forts 
very delirable lurniture for the green- 
boufe collection. Oranges and lemons 
are generally mere fruitful in England 
than the citron, and the Seville orange 
moft of all, which is the only fort of 
orange to be depended on for any con- 
fiderable quantity of flowers and fruit ; 
this tree being hardieft, retains its fruit 
in winter better than moft of the other 
varieties. 

Thefe trees are all natives originally 
of India, but have been long retained 
in our gardens as green-houfe plants ; 
and in the fcuihern parts of Europe, 
as Portugal, Spain, and Italy, they 
grow in the open ground like our ap- 
ple and pear trees, and from which 
countries vaft quantities cf the fruit 
are imported hither annually ; but in 
England the trees mufl always be con- 
tinued in poti or tubs, to be houfed in 
•winter. 

They all fucceed In the open air 
from the beginning of June unto the 
middle or latter end of October, and 
the rell of the year muft have the fhel- 
ter of a green-houfe, and they will 
profper in any good garden mould. 

They are propagated by feed, bud- 
ding, and inarching. By feed, i . c. the 
kernels cf the fruit : this method of 
raihng thefe trees is rarely praftiied in 
England, except for ftock-<, on which 
to bud the difi'crent kinds; for al- 
though railing the trees entirely from 
feed, witiiout budding, is the way to 
gain new varieties, yet out of numbers 
Jo raifed, it is probable not a tree of 
them may produce fruit that poflelTcs 
any good property, but will be fmall, 
crablike, and intolerably four and 
harfh : but when any new valuable 
variety is hy this means accidentally 



obtained. It Is continued and rnulti- 
plied by budding it upon flecks raifed 
from ^e kernels of any of the forts ; 
by which praflicc all the above dcfcri- 
bed varieties are annually increafed in 
our gardens. The method of raifin^ 
them entirely from feeds, except for 
flocks, is both tedious and uncertain ; 
thereiore in tiiis country it is fcarce 
worth piadlifing, unlef» a few merely 
for curiofity. 

The railing them, however, from 
the kernel, either to form trees for new 
varieties, or for flocks to bud upon, is 
in this country performed tlfcdlually 
and expeditioufly hy the aid of a hot- 
bed, and by thii means flocks may 
be obtained of due fize for budding, 
in two years. The follow ing is the me- 
thod of raifing them : — 

Early in fpring procure fome kernels 
which may be had plentifully from 
rotten fruits, or others that are per- 
fed»y ripened, obferving, that for 
flocks, the citron, lemon, and Seville 
orange, as being thefreeft fhcoters, are 
to bepreferred, though the citron Is the 
flrongelt fhooter of the three ; fow the 
kernels in March, in pots of rich light 
earth half an inch deep, and plunge 
them in a hot-bed of dung or tan, un- 
der frame and glalfes, giving them air, 
and frequent fprinklings of water. In 
two or thice weeks the plants will come 
up, and in fix weeks or two months 
more, they will be advanced four or 
five inches in height ; obferving, in the 
middle or latter end of June, to harden 
them to the full air, in which let them 
remain till Oftober, then move them 
into the green-houfe to fland till 
fpi ing. In March or April, proceed to 
plant them fingly in fmal! pots, being 
careful to fliake them out of the feed- 
pot with their roots entire, and having 
h::lf filled the other pots with light, 
rich, loamy compofl, place one plant 
in each pot, filling it up over the roots 
with the f^me fort of earth, and let 
them be direflly watered, repeating it 
occafionally till they are freih rooted; 
arierwjids treat thena as other woody 
exotics of the green-houfe, and in a 
year or two, the largeft of thefe dc- 
ligned for j'lccks will be fit to bud. 

But, to have flocks as forward and 

fine as poiTible for budding, as foon as 

they are potted out as above, plunge 

them direaly in a hct-ted, under a 

frame 



O R A 



O R A 



frame and g'sfl'es, about three or four 
months, which will draw them up in 
height with handfome ftems. 

A batk-bed would be the moft eli- 
gible, made either in a glafs pit, or to 
be covered with a deep frame and 
light? J fo plunging the pots to their 
rims in the bed, giv.ng occafional ihade 
in the middle cf hot tunny (ays, and 
frefli air daily by tilting one end of the 
lights more or lefs, as yoj fhall judge 
expedient : likcwife rttrcfti them fre- 
quently with water, and by the mid- 
dle or end of July the plants will be 
advanced fifteen or eighteen inches, or 
near two feet high, obferving then to 
harden them by degrees to the full air 
for the remainder of the fummer ; and 
by being thus forwarded, thofedeligned 
for Uocki will be in excellent order for 
budding the year following. 

But thefc feedlings may Ibll be more 
forwarded, and a year or two's growth 
may be gained by forcing them, as 
above, the firft feafon. This is cffedled 
by pricking out the feedlings the firll 
year they come up, when two or three 
inches high, in fmall pots, as above, 
to be pluiiged either in a bark-bed, or 
even in a dung hot-bed, covered with 
old tan eight or ten inches deep for the 
reception cfthe pots. The plants are 
then to be potted fingly, and plunged 
in the hot-bed, and by the middle or 
end of July, they will have advanced 
to twelve or fifteen inches, or perhaps 
to a foot and a half, or near two feet 
in height ; they muft then be gradually 
hardened to the full air, by raifing 
the lights more and more every day, 
leaving them alfo up on nights, and at 
Jail take them quiie off in a cloudy 
calm day. Let the plants remain fully 
expofed till OQober, then move them 
into the green- houfe for the winter, 
and many of them will be in due or- 
der to receive the buds the next Au- 
guflj and the following is the method: 

The operation of budding is per- 
formed in Augult upon Aocks of their 
own kinds, for ail the fpecies and va- 
rieties of this genus take freely upon 
one another, and the budding or ino- 
culation is performed in the common 
way. 

As to the buds for budding them, 
obfer\'e to procure cuttings only from 
bearing free-lhooting trees, of the forts 
you would encreafc j young fhoots, 
that are round and plump, mull be 



cliofen, and from thcf« take the buds 
in the ufual manner, being careful to 
infert them in a fmooth part of the 
ftock, at about fix to ten or fifteen in- 
ches from the bottom, one bud in each 
Hock, tying them with a ligature of 
bafs. 

As foon as the budding is finifhed, 
it is proper to place the plants in their 
pots in the green-houfe, or in a glafs- 
cafe, &c, to deiend the huds from wet 
and drying winds, turning the budded 
part from the fun : or where there is 
the convenience of a fpare bark-pit, 
where the heat of the bark is almoft 
exhauHed, the pots may be plunged 
therein two or three weeks, and it will 
more efFeflually promote the union of 
the buds J obferving, in either depart- 
ment, to admit air freely, by opening 
the front glafles, and allowing a flight 
(hade of mats in the middle of fcorch- 
ing funny days : the pots fhould alfo be 
fupplied with water every day or two 
during the hot weather. In ^hree or 
four weeks the buds will be united 
with the rtocks, when it is proper to 
loofen the bandage of each bud, that 
they may have room to fweil ; obfer- 
ving, however, that the buds will all 
remain dormant till fpring. 

After this there is nothing more re- 
quired this year but due wateringsj 
only obferving, that in cafe of great 
rains, it will be proper to retain the 
plants in the green-houfe for the re- 
mainder of the fummer, and until next 
fpring. 

In March following, the heads of all 
the ftocks muft be cut off flanting clofe 
behind the infertion of the bud 5 after 
this operation the buds will foon begin 
to fpring, and produce each one flioot, 
which probably will obtain trom about 
five or fix, to eight or ten inches in 
length the fame year. It is proper to 
obferve, that if the ftocks could have 
the aid of a b.i'^k-bed, there will be a 
chance of having the buds (hoot a foot 
and h If, or more, by the end of fum- 
mer; therefore where there is .he con- 
venience of a bark pit, or glafs-cafe, 
or any deep frame, that can be placed 
on a bark-bed, &c. we (hould advifeby 
all means to make ufe ot fuch ronve- 
niencies for forwarding the fir:', flioot 
of the buds ; fo tlUt as foon as the 
ftocks are headed, as above ciire^ed, 
plunge the pots in the hot-bed, and let 
them enjoy the benefit of air and wa- 
Q.J ter, 



O R A 



O R A 



ter, In preportion to the temperature 
of the bed and weather; likewife oc- 
cafional fliade when the fun is very 
powerful Here thty may be conti- 
nued, witli t!ie above care, till the end 
of July, when fome of the (trongeft 
fhooterswiil be advanced near two feet 
high J and it is then proper to begin to 
inure them by degrees to the full air, to 
harot-nthtni againft winter, that they 
may be able to live during that feaCon 
in the green-houfc, to which they muft 
be removed in October. 

Wheiiit is however defigned to pro- 
pagate by inarching, (locks muft be 
raifed from feed, as before diiedled, 
which, when of due fize, are to be pla- 
•eed in their pots, upon a fort of ftage, 
or fome eredion convenient to the 
head of the trees you intend to inarch 
from, obferving to fix upon fome con- 
venient young flioots, nearly the fize of 
the (locks, for t he purpofe of inarching; 
thefe are to be inarched in the ftocks, 
as tliey grow on the trees, in April or 
May, one in each (tock, and by the end 
of Auguft following they will be uni- 
ted to the flock, and may be feparated 
from the parent tree. 

But this method of propagating thefe 
trees, is rather praftil^ed by way of cu- 
riolity, to raife a few trees to a bearing 
ftate in hafte, becaufe, by inarching a 
young bearing branch, furni(hcd with 
fruit, into any of their own (locks, in 
April or May, it will frequently be 
united by the following Auguft, and the 
branch fo inarched may be feparated 
from its parent plant, and, being firmly 
attached to the flock, it then commen- 
ces a new tree, bearing fruit, raifed in 
the fhort fpace of four or five months. 
By tiie fame rule you may inarch an 
orange into the branch of a citron or 
lemon, or all three upon the fame tree, 
for the fake of variety. 

But trees raifed by this method ne- 
ver grow fo large nor handfome as 
thofe raifed by budding. 

The flowers are highly odoriferous, 
and have been for fome time pad of 
great efleem as a perfume : their tafle 
js fomewhatwarm, accompanied with 
a degree of bitteinefs. They yiel^ 
their flavour by infufion, to re£lified 
fpirit, and in diftillation both to fpirit 
and water: the bitter matter isdifTol- 
yed by water, and, on evaporating the 
decodlion, remains entire in the ex- 
tract, The diftilled water was for- 



merly kept In the (hops, but on account 
of the fcarcity of the flowers is now 
laid alide: it is called by foreign wri- 
ters ajua lupha. An oil dift lied from 
thefe flowers is brought from Italy un- 
der the name of 'Jcum or ejfcntia nntH. 

The outer yellow rind of the fruit is 
a grateful aromatic bitter, and, in cold 
phlegmatic conrtitutions, proves an 
excellent flomacliic and cnrminative, 
promoting appetite, warming the ha- 
bit, and (Irengthening the tone of the 
vifcera. Orange peel appears to be 
very confiderably warmer than that of 
lemons, and to abound more with ef- 
fe.tial O'l: to tliii circumftance there- 
fore due regard ought to be had in the 
ufe of thefe medicines. The flavour 
of the firft is likewife fuppofed to be 
lefs perifhable than that of the other, 
hence the College employ orange peel 
in the fpirituous bitter tinflure, which 
is defigned for keeping, whilA in the 
bitter watery infulion, lemon peel is 
preferred. A fyrup and two diililled 
waters are for the fame reafon prepa. 
red from the rind of oranges in prefe- 
rence to that of lemons. 

The juice of oranges is a grateful 
acid liquor, of confiderable ufe in fe- 
brile or inflammatory diftempers, for 
aliayini heat, abating exorbitant com- 
motions of the blood, quenching thirft, 
and promoting the falutary excretions ; 
it is likewife of great ufe in fcurvies, 
efpecially when given in conjun£lion 
with the ccchltana, nafturtium, or other 
asrid antifcorbutics, as in tht fucci fcor- 
butici of the fliops. 

Orange Mint, [Mentha Rubra. "l 
A fperies of mint fmelling like an 
orange. 

/Vfof* Orange. SttMockOjLAvnz. 
ORCHARD. A garden depart- 
ment, configned er.tlrely to the growth 
of flandard fruit trees, for furni(hing 
a large fupply of the moft ufeful kinds 
of fruit. 

In the orchard you may have as 
ftandards all forts of apple trees, moft 
forts of pears and plumbs, and all forts 
of cherries ; which four fpecies are the 
capital orcliard fruits: each of which 
comprife numerous valuable varieties ; 
but to have a compleat orchard, you 
may alfo have quinces, medlars, mul- 
berries, fervice- trees, filberts, Spanifh 
nuts, barberries; likewife walnuts and 
chefnuts, which two latter are parti- 
cularly applicable for the boundaries of 
orchards. 



O R C 



O R C 



•rchards, to fcreen tlie other trees 'rem 
the infulcs ot impetuous winds and 
cold blalh. All ihefe trees (hould be 
arranged in rows from twenty to thirty 
feet di fiance. 

But fcmctimcs orchards confift en- 
tirely oi appic-trees,])articuiarly in the 
cyder-making countries, where they 
arc cultivated in very great quantities 
in Iai5t fields, and in hedge rows, ibr 
the fruit to make cyder for public fupply . 

And fometimes whole orchards of 
Viry confider.Tliie extent are eniirely of 
cherry-trees; but in this c:;re, it is 
when iliC fruit is deligned for fale in 
fome great city, as London, Sec. for the 
fupply of wliich city, great numbers of 
cherry-orchards are in feme of the ad- 
jacent counties, but more particularly 
in Kent, which is ';7mous for very 
exfenfive cherry-rrchaicis; many of 
which are entirely of that fort calitd 
Kentifh clierry, as being generally a 
great bearer; others are rtoied with all 
the principal forts of cultivated cher- 
ries, from the earlieft to the latef\ kinds. 

A general orchard, however, com- 
pcfcdof allthe before-mentioned fruit- 
trees, fhould confift of a double por- 
tion of apple-trees or more, becaufe 
they are confiderably the mort ufeful 
fruit, and may be continued for ufe the 
year round. 

The utility of a general orchard, 
both for private ufc and for profit, 
Aored witn various forts of fruit-trees, 
mud be very great, as well as afford 
infinite pleafure from the de!igh;ful 
appearance it makes from early fpring 
till late in autumn: in fpring tlie va- 
rious trees in blolTom are highly orna- 
mental j in fummer, the pleafure is 
heightened by obferving the various 
fruits advancing to perleflion; and as 
the feafon advances, the mature growth 
©f the various forts arriving to perfec- 
tion in regular fucceffionfrom May or 
June until the end cf Odober, mull 
afford exceeding deliglit, as well as 
great prcfit. 

As to the proper extent of ground 
for an orchard, this mud be propor- 
tioned, in fome meafure, to the extent 
ef land you have to work on, and the 
quantity of fruit required either for 
private ufe, or for public fupply : fo 
that an orchard may be from half an 
^cre to twenty or more in extent. 

With refpedl to the fituation and 
afpedl for an orchard, wc may obferve 



very thriving orchards both In low and 
high fituitions, and on declivities <ind 
plain<, in various afpe£fsor cxpofuics, 
provided the n.ituial loil is good. Wc 
fliould, however, avoid very lowd^mp 
fituations as much as the narur«ot the 
place will admit ; for ii^ very wet foils 
n.-j iruit-trecs v.ill proi'pcr, nor the 
fruit he fine: but a moderately iov^ 
fituation, free from copious wet, may 
be more eligible than an elevated 
ground, as being kfs expofed to tem- 
pelluous winds; il;ouj;li a Ctuatioa 
having a fmall neclivity is very defira> 
ble, efpecially if its afpe£l incline to- 
wards thi eait, fouth-eaft, or fou- 
therly, which are rather more eligible 
tlian a wei^erly afpe£l ; but a north aC- 
pedl is the worlt of all tor an orchard, 
unlefs particularly compenfated by the 
peculiar temperament or good quality 
of the foil. We wculd remark, for the 
advantage of tliofe tl.at are not ac^com- 
modatcd with choice of lituation and 
afpeft, that they need not be under any 
great anxiety, if the foil is but fuitablej 
only obferving, if pofTible, to abandon 
very low damp fituations, for the rea- 
fon before given them. 

As for foil, any common field or 
pafture that produces good crops of 
corn, grafs, or kitchen garden vegeta- 
bles, is futiable ior an orchard ; if it 
fliould prove of a loamy nature, it will 
be a particular advantage: any foil, 
however, of a good quality, not too 
light and dry, or too heavy, flubborn, 
or wet, but of a medium nature, of a 
foft pliant temperature, not lefs than 
one fpade deep of good flaple, will be 
proper for thii purpofe. 

Where, however, the foil is natu- 
rally defeftive, the defefts muft be 
reftified as well as pofiiblc, by the ap- 
plication of proper manures and com- 
ports, and applied either to the whole 
ground, if but of moderate extent, or 
to the places where each tree istofland, 
for a fpace of pight or ten feet circum- 
ference, working it up with t!ie natural 
foil of the place. 

This application, in extenfivc or- 
chards, would be a very cliargeable 
operation j therefore thofs who are at 
liberty to chufe, fliould have particolar 
regard to the fixing upon a proper fpot, 
where but little or no foreign aid is 
requifite. 

The preparation of the ground for 
the reception of the trees, is by trench.. 



O R C 



O R C 



ing;, cr if for very confidcrable or- 
chards, by deep ploughing; buttrencli- 
digging, one or two fpadcs, as the foil 
will admit, is the mo(t eligible, either 
wholly, or only for the prefent, in the 
places where the lines of trees are to 
Hand, a fpace of fix or eight feet wide, 
all the way in each r.iw, efpeciaily if it 
be grafs-ground, and intended to be 
kept in fward; or if any under-crops 
are defigned to be raifed, the ground 
may he svholly trenched at fii ft ; but as 
to this you may fuit your convenience, 
obferving in either cafe to trench the 
ground in the ufual way to the depth 
of the natural foil ; and if in grafs, turn 
the fward clean to the bottom of each 
trench, which when rot'.ed, will prove 
an excellent manure. 

In planting orchards, however, on 
grafs-ground, fome only dig pits for 
each tree, capacious enough for the 
receprion of the roots, loofening the 
bottom well, without the labour of 
digging any other part of the ground : 
where the ground, however, is trenched 
either wholly, or fome confiderable 
width along the place of each row of 
trees, it will confequently prove of 
greater advantage in promoting their 
free growth. 

The ground mufl be fenced fecurely 
againlt cattle, &c. either with a good 
ditch and hedge, or with a paling fence, 
as may be molt convenient. 

The heft feafon for planting all the 
forts of fruit trees is autumn, foon af- 
ter the fall of the leaf, from about the 
latter end of Odlober until December; 
or it may be performed any time in 
open weather from Oftober until 
March. 

All the forts of fruit trees proper for 
rhis department, if not furnifhed with 
them in your own nurfery, may be had 
very reafonable at all the public nur- 
fery-grounds; obferving to chufe them 
principally full ftandards, with ftrait 
clean ftcms, fix feet high, efpeciaily 
^le apples, pears, plumbs, cherries, and 
other tree kinds, each with a branchy 
weil-formed head, of from two or three 
fo four cr five years growth; and Jet 
ftveral varieties of each particular fpe- 
r.ies be chofen, that lipen tlieir fruit at 
different times, from the earlieft to the 
lateft, according to the nature of the 
diflfcrent forts, that there may be a fuf- 
tirient fupply of every fort regularly 
«vr)R3 :heir proper k^Con 5 and of ap- 



ples and pears in particular, chufe a 
much greater quantity of the autumnal 
and late ripening kinds, than the early 
forts; but the moft of all of apples: 
for t!ie fummer-ripening fruit is but of 
fliort duration, being only proper for 
temporary fcrvice. The later ripening 
kindo keep found fome confiderable 
time for autumnal ufe; and the latefl 
forts that ripen in odobcr continue 
in perfeftion for various ufes all win- 
ter, and feveral forts, until the feafon of 
apples come again. 

Having made choice of the proper 
forts, and marked them, let them be 
taken up with the utmoft care, fo as to 
preferveall their roots as entire as pof- 
Cble; and when taken up, prune off 
any broken or bsj-^fed parts of the roots, 
and jofl tip the ends of the principal 
roots in general with the knife, on the 
under fide, with a kind of flope out- 
ward. 

Jf the trees have been already headed, 
or fo trained as to have branched out 
into regular fhoots to form eacii a pro- 
per head, they muft be planted with 
the faid heads entire, only retrenching 
or fhortening any irregular or ill-placed 
fhoots that take an aukward diredlion, 
or run longer than the reft. 

The arrangement of the trees in the 
orchard muft be in rows, each kind fe- 
parate, at diftances according to the 
nature of growth of the different forts; 
but for the larger growing kinds, fuch 
as apples, pears, plumbs, cherries, &c. 
they fhould ftand from twenty-five to 
thirty or forty feet every way afunder, 
though twenty-five or thirty feet at 
moft is a reafonable diftance for all 
thefe kinds. 

Each fpecies and its varieties (hould 
generally be in rows by themfelves, 
the better to fuit their refpeftive modes 
of growth: thougii for variety you 
may have fome rows of apples and 
pears ranged alternately ; likewife 
plumbs and cherries ; and towards the 
boundaries may have ranges of lefler 
growth, as quinces, medlars, filberts, 
&c. and the outer row of all may be 
vi'alnut- trees, and fome chefnuts, fet 
pretty dofc. to defend the other trees 
from violent winds. 

Proceed to ftake out the ground ac- 
cording to the above diftances, for ma- 
king the holes for the reception of the 
trees ; which if made to range every 
way, -.vill have a very agreeable efftft, 

and 



O R C 

and admit the currency of air, and th e 
influence of the fun, more efTsftually. 

In planting veiy cxtenfive orchards, 
foCTie divide the ground into large 
fquares or quarters of difTerent dimen- 
fions, with intervals of fifty feet wide 
between, ferving both as walks, and 
for admitting tlie air. In different 
quarters plant different forts of fruit, 
as apples in one, pears in another, and 
plumbs and cherries in others, &c. and 
thus it may be repeated to as many 
quarters, for each fpecies and its vari- 
eties, as may be convenient. 

A wide hole muft be dug for each 
tree, capacious enough to receive all 
the roots freely every way with- 
out touching the fides. When the 
holes arc ready, proceed to planting, 
one tree to each hole, a perfon holding 
the ftem ere&:, whilft another trims in 
the earth, previonfly breaking it fmall, 
and ca!^ it in equally about all the 
roots, frequently (haking the tree to 
caufe the mould to fettle in clofe about 
all the fmaller roots and fibres, and fo 
as to raife the tree gradually up, that 
the crovvn of the roots may be but two 
or three inches below the general fur- 
face; and when the hole is filled up, 
tread it gently, firfl round the outfide, 
then near the ftem of the tree, forming 
the furface a little hollow : and then if 
on the top of all is laid fome inverted 
turf to the width of the holes, forming 
it with a fort of circular bank, three or 
four inches high, it will fupport the 
tree, and guard the roots from drying 
winds and the fummer's drought: ob- 
ferving that each tree ftands perfeftly 
upright, and that they range exaftly in 
their proper rows. 

If the orchard is much expofed to 
the winds, it may be proper to flake 
the new-planted trees to fupport them 
in their proper pofition, and fccure 
them from being rocked to and fro by 
the wind, which would greatly retard 
their rooting afrefhj placing one cr 
two ftrong tall ftakes to each tree j 
but the nioft effedual method is to 
have three fiakes to each, placed in a 
triangle, meeting at top near the head 
of the tiee, wrapping a hay-band round 
that part of the ftem, to prevent its 
being barked hy the liakes or tyingj 
then tie the ftakes at top clofe to the 
tree, with fome proper bandage, bring- 
ing it clofe about the ftem and flakes 
together, over the hay-wrapping, in a 



ORG 

proper manner to fecure the tree firm- 
ly in an ertCt poflure. 

The ground of the orchard, between 
the rows of trees, is very commonly 
laid down in grafs, as being the moit 
convenient for admitting of coming 
readily at the trees at all times to ga- 
ther the fruit: but if thought proper, 
it may be emplc ycd for fome years ci- 
ther wholly, or in part, for the produce 
of kitchen vegetables, or for the growth 
of corn, turnips, potatoes, &c. being 
careful in Jigging or ploughing the 
ground for the reception of thefe crops, 
not to go too near to dilturb the roots 
of the trees; likewife net have any 

Arong.grovving plants within three feet 
of each fide of the rows of trees: how- 
ever, after the trees are advanced in 
growth, and begin to bear any thing 
confiderably, it may be more eligible 
to lay the ground down intirely in 
grafs, as it will be then more in cha- 
rafter of an orchard, and be more con- 
venient forgathering the fruit, and do- 
ing any necefiary work to the trees ; 
but in any of thefe ways, every one may 
fuit their inclination or convenience. 
If, however, it is laid down in grafs, 
no cattle fhould be turned in to graze 
at large, unlefs the ftems of each tree 
be previoufly well fecured with ports 
and railing, and wattlec with tliorn- 
bulhes, efpecially in young orchards, 
otherwife they will bark the trees, to 
their very great injury; nor ftiould large 
cattle be turned into orchards, where 
the branches of the trees are low and 
within their reach. 

V'ith regard to the general culture 
of orchard fruit-trees, obferve, that as 
being ftandards, their heads fhould ge- 
nerally be permitted to branch out 
nearly in their own natural manner, 
with the branches at full length, with- 
out fiiortening, only on particular oc- 
cafions, and they will gradually form 
themfelves into large branchy heads, 
and all the branches foon afTume a 
bearing flate ; very little pruning of 
any fort being required to fiandard 
fruit-trees, except in particular cafes, 
as above hinted, of fuperfluous or very 
irregular growths : as lor example, all 
fuckers arifing from the root, muft 
conftantly be taken oflf clofe ; likewife 
divert the ftems of all fide-branches 
coming out below the head ; and all 
luxuriant fhoots arifing in the heart or 
middle of the tree, or in any part where 

they 



O R C 

they appear too mucli croiickd, fhould 
be pruiud off clofe. If any pinicular 
brancli of the heid fhould become ol" 
long rtraggling growtli, extending be- 
yond all the reft, it may he fhortened 
as you fhall lee proper, down to fome 
youn^ (hoot, or lower branch it fiip- 
ports,that is of a u-ptilar growth, or in- 
lirely retrenched a% it may !eem proper 
to keep up fome uniformity in the 
haad ; and if the lieaH in general be- 
come at any time over-cr':;uded with 
branches, thin out the worrt and moft 
inegular growers of the fuperfluity. 
All dead wood and cankered parts 
Ihould alfo be cut off to the live wood. 

But remarking, that except in the 
above cafes, the branches in general of 
ftandard fruit trees, in every (tage of 
growth, fhould be fuffered to flioot 
forth, both in length and branch, late- 
rally in their own way ; for as moii of 
the forts firft form their fruit-buds, or 
fpurs, near the extremity of the bran- 
ches or (hoots, if pruning their ends 
were praftifed, it would not only be 
cutting ofi the parts where the fruit 
would havebsen produced, but would 
force out a number of lateral ufelefs 
llioots, and crowd the tree witli fuper- 
fluous or unneceffary wood, and i-reat- 
ly retard the branches from forming 
the above fruit-fpurs or buds for bear- 
ing; and unlefs thefe are formed in 
plenty; none of the principal tree kinds 
can ever produce any tolerable crops of 
fruit; but the trees being fuffcred to 
take their natural growth, according 
to the above rules, all the branches and 
fhoots will gradually form fruit fpurs 
towards their extreme parts, at almoft 
every eye cf bud. 

By the above hints it is obvious that 
fiandard fruit-trees require but very 
little culture in refpedl to pruning ; 
and the lefa they are pruned, except in 
tl.c befcre-mentioned cafes, the better 
they will bear. 

Beiides, to attempt at any regular 
pruning of orchard or other ft.Tndard 
fruit-trees, would prove a very tedious 
as well Si unnecelTary vi'Ork. 

"Wlitn necelf^ry, however, to prune 
any of theic trees occalionally in the 
above cafes, obferve that the proper 
fe.ifon io,- that work is any time from 
iht idUof the leaf until March. Like 
wife obferve in performing that or'- 
ration, that fuch branches as require 
retrenching Ihuuid be cut off qctr? 



O R C 

clofe either to their origin, i.'n:cejrary, 
or clofe to any more convenient brancd 
it miy fupport, not leaving any flump, 
and make the cut a^ eVi.ii and fmootli 
as poiTiiile. 

Orchard trees are fometlmes greatly 
infei\cd with mofs growing alj over 
their branches, but more particularly 
thofe trees which are lituated in very 
damp foils ; alfo often in old orchards 
where the trees fland fo clofe as to 
croud one another fo confiderably as 
to exclude the free air : in which cafe 
of mcirincfs, the trees commonly af- 
fume a lluntcd unkindly growth, pro- 
ducing but indifferent crops, and the 
fruit often fmall and ill-flavoured. 
The only remedy for this difafler, 
i->, to thin out fome of the branches 
where thickelt, to admit the fun and 
air more freely, and fcrape the mofs 
off from the remainder, with an in- 
Ihument diredled below ; but where 
the trees thus infeitcd Hand very clofe 
to one another, fome of them THould 
be cut down to admit a larger portion 
of air, and the fun's heat and light ; 
and for the f;ime reafon thin the 
branches of the remaining trees ; then 
clear thebranches in general from the 
grolTeft or the mofs; for which pur- 
pcfeyou (houk! be provided with fome 
iron f>:rapers hollowed on the edge, 
and of three different fizes to fuit the 
different branches, having the edges a 
little blunted ; and with thefe tooJ.> 
fcrape off the mofs irom all the prin- 
cipal branches at lea(\, and of as many 
of the fmallcr ones as your time will 
perm.t, for it is tedious work where 
theieare many trees: after this, if the 
ground of the orchard, either wholly 
or but ten or twelve feet width along 
e;-;cl) row cf trees, be dug or deeply 
ploug'ied, it voill give Kew vigour to 
the roots, and which together with the 
thinning of the trees to admit the fun 
and air freely, and| the pilncipal 
branc'-cs being diverted of the mofs, 
you will find them (hoot at top with 
f clTi vigour, and the quantity, fize, 
.md quality of tlie fruit be greatly aug- 
mented ill ."> year or two. 

ORCH.\RD-GRASS. The name 
of a finall, C':,irfe. but very fweet gra's. 
It i: ©f very quick growth, and m ly 
pofTihly hereafter be cultivated to ad- 
vantjse. 

ORE-WEED. A cereial name for 
weeds growing at the boiiom of the 

fca. 



O R P 



O S I 



Hea, and Mo on the muddy and rocky 
parts of the fhorc. 

Sea-weeds are fo beneficial a manure, 
that farmers ought not to grudge the 
expence of carrying them a few miles. 
Jn Dcvonfhire, Cornwall, and other 
maritime parts of England, thtfe weeds 
are Uid in heaps till they are rotten, 
and t 'cn fpread upon the land, about 
a load to three rods: buttiiis lafts only 
one year, unlel's fand, or a (tiff earth, 
according to the quality of the foil in- 
fen<'ed to l>€ improved, be laid on or 
mixed with them J and then tliey be- 
comes iaiting manure. In fcMiie places, 
thefe weeds are gathered in he.ips, and 
burnt a'! foon as they are dry ; after 
which about a hufhel of their afhes is 
laid on upon tliree rods of gmund. 
But thefe, like all other aflici, fhould 
be mixed with fand, or Aid eartt , if 
you will have the land lafl good : other- 
wife they are only an improvement 
for a year. Thefe allies are particularly 
good for grafs grounds crver-run with 
mofs. Loofe landy foils are likewife 
peculiarly benefitted by tliis weed : 
but, being a fub marine plant, the 
wind and fun foon exiiale it: moifture ; 
Co that the more fpccdily it is taken 
from the fhore, where flornis often 
throw it up in great quantities, the 
better it is. When fpread on ti.e 
groynd, and afterwards covered over, 
it fcon dillolvcs into a fait oily flime, 
proper to fertilize and bind iight foils. 
This is the moll approved -.vsy nf ap- 
plying it: though fbme Ly it naked, 
and frefh from the fea, upon their bar- 
ley lands, towards the end of March 
and bet^inning of April, and have a 
good crop of corn: but fuch quanti- 
ties of rank weeds are apt to fhoot up 
afterwards, that no wholefome plant 
is to be expefted that year. 

ORCH1-, See Dogstones, 

ORIGANY, [Origanum.] Wild 
Thyme, or Wild Majoram. This is 
met with upon dry chalky hills, and 
fn gravelly foils, in feveral parts of 
England. It has an agreealiie fmei), 
and a pungent tane,v/armer than that 
of the garden marjoram, and much 
rcfembling thyme, which it feems to 
agree with in virtue. An effential oil 
diltilled frf<m it, is kept in the (hops. 

ORl'INE, [relephium.] This \i a 
very thick-leaved juicy plant, not un- 
like the hcufeleeks. It has a mucila- 
ginous rouglieit tafle, and hence is re- 

VOL.II. 



con-.mended as emollient and aftrin« 
gent, but has never been much re- 
gard^rd in practice. 

Bafiard Obpi.ne. See Bastard 
Ok PINE. 

ORRIS, f/n,.] The roots of this 
plant, when recent, have a bitter, but 
acrid, iiaufeous tafle, aid taken into 
the body proves rtrongly cathaitic ; and 
honce the juice is recommended ia 
dropTies, in the dofe of three or four 
fcruples. By drying they lofe 'his qua* 
lity, yet (till rc.sin a fomewii.it pun- 
gent, bitterilTi taftc : their fn.cU in this 
(late j-i of the aromatic kind ; thofe 
produced in the warmer Ciiinate^ have 
a very-jrateiul flavour, approaching to 
that of March violets : hence the ufe of 
the f li.rentine iris in perfumes, and for 
flavouring liquors: the Hiops employ 
i: in the white pedtoral irochei, &c. 

OSIER, {Saiix.] A fmall kind of 
wiilow ; v^'hii-h from the patncular 
ufes for whicli it is raifedj requires a 
different fort of management, and ano- 
ther manner ot planting. 

The ofier very much rfifembles the 
willow in its appearance, but that is 
afmailer tree, its ihoots are longer and 
flcndercr, and its leaves alfo much 
Itmger j thefe are vtry narrow, and la 
the btfi kind aie green on the up>per 
fide, but whitish, as it were, woolly 
underneath. 

The ofierioves awet and low ground 
near waters, and nearly upon a level 
with the svattr. It thrive* no where 
io well as in m,-,rfhy places, near the 
edges of large rivers \ or in thofe little 
iflands that are formed by the breaking 
cf their current ; and every way fur- 
rounded by the water. The ground 
for an ozier bed fliould be a rich black 
mould J and this is very common in 
thefe low and wet fitoations. 

The defizn in planting the ofier is, 
that it may (hoot out a great quantity 
of fine flmder twigs, which are to be 
cut at a fmall growth. Therefore there 
ii no occafion for a trunk either of the 
pollard or timber tree form. This 
would only exhauft a great deal of the 
nourifhment taken in by the root, and 
deprive the fhoots of it 5 neither are 
they fo apt to rife llraightand fine, un- 
lefs they begin near the ground. 

On this depends the peculiar way of 

planting the ozier. It is raifed in the 

fame manner as the other willows, by 

truncheons or rtakes driven into the 

R ground ^ 



o ;? I 

ground; and it is proper always to let 
A certain quantity of the Ihoots ftand 
lor a ducgicwtli tor this piirpole, when 
the icll are cut. But as thcfe ar; not 
to life in a trunk, they murt not be 
above four foot in lengtli, ar.d three 
toot of tliiii mull be thiuAed into tlie 
ground. 

They will, by this means, have a 
fine fupply of roots ; and beginning to 
Ihoot (o near the earth, all tlic nourifli- 
ment will be carried up into the twigs. 
Thcfe AaUcs are to be planted at 
three foot dillance, and they will 
quickly yield a l^rge profit : t!ie twigs 
rife numerous from their tops; and 
being cut down pretty clofc:, in the 
I'.ianner of fhrowding pollard trees, 
they fend up a new fet of twigs ai;ain 
almoll im.Tiedi.uely, which quickly 
grow to their proper fize. 

The time of cutting ofiers is in Sep- 
tember; and the advantage that may 
be made of planting them is very great. 
oVfany walle pieces of wet grcund 
might be made to yield a great profit 
by them. 

If Hakes or truncheons of a proper 
bignefs cannot be had, more time will 
be required to raife the ozier bed ; but 
It may be done fromfmallerfets. Thcfe 
are to be cut four or five foot long, 
and Auck at the fame diftances into 
the ground. They will grow very 
freely ; and when they have Aocd three 
years, they r.re to be cut down within 
a foot of the ground ; and from thence 
will rife the twigs in great abundance ; 
and they will continue affording a (up- 
ply of them many years. 

The fineA and beA kind of ofier is 
that here defcribed wirh long leaves, 
white underneath ; but there are feve- 
ral others that anfwer the purpofc very 
well. The twigs are of conllant and 
ready fale. The balket-rnaker's work 
depends upon thfmj-ar^d there is a 
great confumption of them among 
the f)/hertnen. The wheels, as they 
are called, for catching eels and other 
lifli, are made of them : and bafkets, 
hampers, and the like, of which the 
coniumpt'on is, in a manner, endlefs 
and unlimited. 

Tne quick growth of the twigs i^ a 
great article in the psofitof an ofier 
holt, for they are ci:t every yearj and 
the heads that bear tliem grow for a 
Jong time more and more bufhy at every 
(i'jitinj. So that here ii a vaA profit 



O V E 

to hi m.ide with fcarce any cxpence; 
annually returned and increafed every 
ye^r ; and this upon ground fit for no- 
thing elfe; for the ofier will grow and 
flouriih on ground that is fo loofe and 
((} wet, tiiat it would not af>brd hold 
for the root of any other kind of plan- 
tation whatfoever. 

As thij Aems of the oAeri will de- 
cay in tiii'.c, let the liulbandman always 
take care to have a fu[)ply. Nothirg 
is fo eafy : for 'tis only Iticking into 
the ground fome t\^i^. h< • .veen the 
Aems, which will take their time to 
root themfelves, and grow to a due big- 
nefs; and when properly cut, and ma- 
naged accordin.; to t!ie diredtiors al- 
re.Tdy given, oi raifmg an cfier grotmd 
from fets, will he ready to yield thtir 
pi odiice as t!ie eld ones b^'gin to decay ; 
and may thus be made to fupply their 
place irraduallv as they are wanted. 

OSI-EIS. OAets are little hard fub. 
Aanccb that arife among thefmall bones 
of the knee of the horfe, on the infide ; 
they giovv out of the gummy fubAance 
which faAens thofe bones together, and 
derive their origin from a inatter like 
that which pioduces fplents, and like 
them proceed from thejiame caufe, viz. 
the Araining|ofahorfs while he'is young, 
and before his joints be well knit ; and 
from hence alfo we may imderfiand the 
nature of all thofe hard tumours al- 
ready treated of, which grow near the 
joints, whether they be S^j~j':r.s, Jar- 
dens, Curbs, or of any ether kind, their 
chief difFerence conliAing in their (itii- 
ation, being all of them formed of a 
matter, v\'hich, in time, grov/s hard, 
yea, even as the bone itfelf; and this 
is t!ie rcafcn why they cannot be moved 
hut by things that are of the greateft 
efficacy. NotwithAandine:, if they be 
difcoveted before they acquire fuch a 
degree of hardntfs, they may be made 
to yield to lefs powerful remedies than 
what we are fometimes conArained to 
mnke u;"e o*. 

OST. SceO\:%-T. 
OVERFLOWING LAND. This 
is comnionly efTefled by diverting t!-.e 
ftreams of rivers, brooks, land-flood's, 
or fome psri of them, out of their na- 
tural channel : but were the rtreams lie 
fo low as to be incapable of over-flow- 
ing the lands, they are made ufe of to 
turn fuch engines as may raife a quan- 
tity of water to do it. 
Wlien you have jot yoi;r water up 



O V E 



O V E 



not applied in due quantities; yet we 
cannot but tl. ink that even tliefc waters 
would ni^ikc a «:reat impeovenient, if 
foarinfly ufed, and in wet times, that 
a great quantity of other water miglit 
mix with tlicm. Thefe waters are 
commonly of a reddifh cclonr, and 
Jeave a reddiiTi fentiment where they 
run, and are much better when they 



to the highed p;trt of the land tint 
you can biing it to, make a fmall trench 
to cairy Icnie of the water in, to give 
you the level the land, keeping of it 
always as n>uch as yuu can upon a 
level, or upon the tiijiiert part of the 
land, fo tl-,at,lrom the upper part you 
may be able to water the lower when 
you will, and by carrying of ilie level 
of this fniall tiench yon will be di- have run fome diltance, than at their 
rcdVed how to Cut en your main trench, firft bre.'iking out, 
which oui;lit to be marie big enough to Alfo fome forts of lands will not be 
itceive the wlioic ftream that you ra'i"-?, improved by watering;, except only with 
and to be rather broad than deep. At land floods, and in fummer, wlien 'tis 
convenient dillances according unto the a very dry time ; as your cold clay, and 
hignefs of tlie llresm, and the ouan- Jlrong land that lies very fiat ; partly be- 
tity of tlie land you are to water, jnake caufc of its flatncfs, and that water 
fcvtraJ Imall trenches, making ycur will not eaftly penetrate fliff clayj and 
main trench the narrower, proportion- therefore light dry warm grounds are 
able to the number of drains you lead the molt improved by wateiing. 
from it ; only you mult note, that the OVER-REACH. A wound in the 
gteatelt advantage of over-flowing is, fore-heel of a horfe, made by thepoinr 
where you can do it frequently, and of tlie hind-lhoe. 
viraw it cff quickly; becaiife where When this wound is only flight or 
water ftands long en ground, tfpecially fuperficial, it is, in general, very eafily 
in winter, 'tis apt to breed ruflies and cured, by walhingit clean, and apply- 
wceds ; and therefore where any fuch ing the wound ointment : butitfhould 
inconveniency is, draw it off by fmall be obftrvcd, from the nature and'man- 
tienches. nef of tiie injury, wliere the^blow has 

Some graze their land till Chriftmas, be^n fniart, that it differs widely from 
and fome longer; bat as foon as 'tis a common cut ; the part here being 
fed bare from Allhallowticle to fpring, both torn and bruifed, and confequently 
that the grafs is not too high, is the it requires to be properly digcfted, in 
belt time for over flowing, except it order to lay a good foundation for 
prove a dry time in April or May : If healing. 

it do, it will be of mighty advantage; For this purpofe, after wafliingont 
for in hot weather the grafs grows three any dii t or gravel with foap-fuds, !^c. 
times as much it moiftened, as at ano- let the wound be digerted, by drefTinj 
tiier time. Land-floods are befi to over- it wirh doflils of lint dipped in an 
flow with in winter, and watm fatten- ounce of Venice turpentine, divided 
ing fpringi in fummer, only you mull witii the yolk of an egg, to which half 
obferve to let the water dry in before an ounce of vincture of myrrh may be 
you water it again ; and not to let cat- added; over this drelTing rt would be 
tie poach it, and that you water it at advifeable to apply the turnip poultice, 
night fo as that the water may he gone or that with rtrong beer grounds and 
before the heat of the day comes, which oatmeal, three or four times, or oft- 
is apt to cocafion the fcorching of it; ner, till thedigeflion is procured, and 
and to rot the roots of the grafs by lying thenboth thefe c'reflTings may be changed 
too long on the land. Thewafliingof for the precipitate medicines, or the 
high ways, towns, or (trtets, efpecially lime-wattr mixture ; obferving always 
of commpns, wherefhecpieet!, is a very to apply tlie dofnls carefully to the 
great improvement of las'.d or trees. bottom, to fill up the fore with the 
P.ut in fome places ifl'ije fprings fame even to the furface, and to bind 
whofe waters are injurious to land, as all on with a comprcfs and roller : and 
fuch u.'"aally are that flow from coal if any cavities appear that cannot ccn- 



inines, or any fulphiircus mineral, be- 
caiiff they are of fuch a brackifh, ha: fli 
quality, iliat they kill vegetables, in- 
llead of nourifliinj of them ; as too 
niuc.': fair, urine, or dung wiil do, if 



vsnienlly be drdTed to the bottom, they 
fliould always be laid open, or no j>ro- 
per foundation for healini; can be ob- 
tained. The hoof alfo fliouUI be kept 
f jpple, or paredawav. when the g-^owtii 
R r. 05 



o u s 



O X E 



ci it Interrupts this end, as is fome- 
times the cafe. 

OUST. A kiln, generally applied 
to thit uled in drying hops. 

It is buili with tire places in the na- 
ture of malt-kilns; and at a propi.r 
diAance over the fire is an hair cloth 
ftrained upon laths ; and thereon the 
hops ate laid, and raked even to the 
deptli of about fix or fcvcn inches, tor 
the better conveniency of drying them 
equally ] and when ihey are pioperly 
cured on the under fide, they are care- 
fully turned ; and by tliat means the 
upper fide becoming the under, the 
whole fhares the fire alike. The perfon 
that performs this part is called the 
drye . whofe bufinefs it is to manage 
the tiies. 

The fuel commonly made ufe of is 
ehaicoal, for its freentfs from fmoke, 
an--! affording a fteady heat. Great 
nicety i- required in this part ; a fmall 
fire being to be made, at fir(t, that they 
iTuy hc.it gradually, and fo raifed as 
they dry , thai it n.ay le done without 
fcorching; and the fire is to be low- 
ered by 'Jegrees, againll they are ready 
to be tatctn off: the time required is 
about tight hours. 

But as charcoal is very dear, being 
three or four pounds |ier lo.-.d, many 
people have adopted the method of 
drying with fea-coai, upon vk-hut they 
call cockle-oults, which are fquare 
iron-boxes, placed upon ,brick-vvork, 
and a flue and chimney in the back 
part of the building for the ffpoke to 
go off. I'he computation is, that a 
chaldron of fea-coal, at about twenty- 
four fhillingt, will dry a load cf hops, 
and that a load of charcoal will do no 
iTio.e. It ia indeed expcnfive to erecl 
I'cch oufts, as there muft be no t'niber 
near them ; and an iron-beam 2nd iron- 
laths are to be ufed,, and they covered 
with plates of tin or iron, properly faf- 
tened together. 

A gcnt!eman has lately claimed the 
merit of havi./g invented anew meiiiod 
of dryint^ heps v.iih fea-coal, cr any 
kind of fuel .vhaiever, by means of a 
moveable iron furnace : it is in form 
of an horizon'.al cylinder, flopped at 
both ends: it lies en an iron carriage, 
which rolls on four ircn-whecis : in 
the fore-end of the cylinder is the 
fuinrce door, aod a hollow iron flue 
runs in a horizontal direction along the 
upper lurface of the cylinder from the 



back, till It reaches the fore end of it, 
when it tal;es a vertical dire£\ion, and 
is carried as iiigh ab is nedcflary to con- 
vey the fmoke out of the ou(t. We 
cannot pretend to fay what are the 
particular advantages refulting from 
the ufe of this rolling furnace, never 
having feen it at work. 

our HOUSES. Are fuch as be- 
long and are adjoining to dwclllng- 
lioufcs. 

OUTLAN'D. Among the Saxons, 
was that land that lay beyond the de- 
mefnes, and was granted out to tenants, 
though at the will of the Lord, in like 
manner as copyhold eftates. 

OXEN. Oxen fhoukl be tall, full 
bodied, fhort jointed, and well put to- 
gether in every part, fo that one fees 
theii firength. Their hair fiiould be 
fine, and lie fmooth, for that beiokcns 
health, and a good kind. 

The ftrength of the ox is very great, 
and he has patience to endure fatigue, 
but he is flow, and muft not be put 
beyond his natural pace. He will not 
work eafily cr freely, if this be at- 
tempted, and what is worfe, fretting 
& hurrying tlirows him into diftempers.' 

'Tis but in fome particular parts of 
England they now breed their oxen to 
labour, but it is very profitable. In 
thefe places the hufbandman cannot be 
too much warned againft his hurrying 
them in their emjiloyments ; for he 
fhoiild con'.ider that they are to be fed 
as well as worked ; and while he 
makes them thus liable to diftempers, 
he takes them off from one, and makes 
them incapable of the othea-. 

When oxen are to be trained to la- 
bour, they muft be firft put to work 
p.f three years old, but they mult be 
brought to it gently, and, by degrees, 
in the manner of a young horfe; for 
if they be puihed or worked too hard 
at this time, they are fpoiled forever. 

Great care muft be taken to match 
fuch well as are to draw together, for 
othervvife they draw unequally, and 
fpoil both the woik and one another. 

In this cafe of matching them, re- 
gard mult be had to three things; theic 
height, their llrength,,and their fpirit: 
for fome aie tall that have not much 
ftrength; and others have a great deal 
of power that are fluggifh. 

In general they are very tractable 
and gentle, but regard muft be hai te 
their ftvtral natures, for they will not 

be 



O X E 



O X E 



be forced out of tliem Uy any ufagc ; 
ind ihcy may be grcatiy injured in tlic 
ctuleavour. 

Ot ail the kinds the pyed Lincoln- 
fhire ox is the titteft for labour. He is 
naturally long-bodied, and till put up 
to feed, ii lefa flelhy than jny o( the 
otl'ier L;ood breeds ; thctigh he takes to 
lattening veiy readily with reft, and a 
good part u re. 
/C When ihe young oxen are firft put 
to work, a greaideai ct care mul^ be 
taken not to oveiheat or fatigue them. 
Tliey muft be fufTeied to icU in the 
middle cf the day in iiot weather, and 
the feivant fhould givt tliem fomchay , 
which will fuppoit them in the new 
titigue of their labour, much better 
than grafs. They murt be wel. fed 
(luring the whole time of their labour- 
ing, for tiiey will not do much if they 
be net kept in fpirits by good nourifh- 
ment ; but in this let the hufbandman 
underlland moderation ; for there is 
dificrence between feeding them for 
ftrength, and tor fattening. 

An ox for labour muft neither be 
bare, nor mufi he he too fat; in the 
rtrlt cafe he will be weak, and in the 
Ciller he will be Uzy. They fhould be 
treated gently, for they do not under- 
Aand blows and hard ufage, and may 
cafier be beaten intoficknefTcs and dif- 
orders, than into labour. 

In this way an ox may very well be 
kej>t to work fcven or eight years, that 
is, till between ten and eleven years 
old; and in that time he will do the 
owner an incredible deal of bufi- 
nefs, provided he thus underftand how 
to manage him, for it all depends upon 
that; otherwift. hi will be as flubborn 
as an afs, and will not be fit half his 
time for fervice. 

Sometimes a young ox will prove 
very Aubborn, vicious, and unruly ; 
hut this, wlien enquired into, will be 
found owing to fome bad ufage at fct- 
ting out, for the ox has nothing of 
that bad difpofuion in his nature. 
When this happens, he mi;fl be kept 
hunjr)- ; and when he has fafted long 
enough, he muft be made to eat out 
of the hand : when he is brought to 
Ilia labour, he muft he tied with a 
tcipt ; and at any time when he grows 
faulty, he mufl be cherifhed, and fed 
v,-i:h a mouihful of \ny by hand ; thus 
brinf;ing l;im by foft means to quiet- 
ncd, and a leadinefs in pcriormiiig iils 



bufinefi ; for nothing clfc v/ill do with 
ihi* creature. 

For the breaking a young ox to the 
field, no way is fo well as to lingle 
out one of the tamell of the old ones, 
that is cf its own fize; and yokcthetn 
together. Let them be put to fomc 
(light wcrk, and fuffcred to do it ea- 
lily and flowly : they will thus draw 
equally, and the young beaft will be- 
come perfeiflly familiar to it. They 
will be apt to get into too flow a gait 
at fiTl\, but by degrees they muft be 
fpirited to be a little bnfker in ;heir 
pact ; and after half a dozen times 
going out wi;h thi^ quiet beaft, the 
young one mult becoupled with an ox 
of mere fpirit, that will learn him to 
go quicker. Thus he is to have his 
companion changed from time to time, 
till in the f.rlt month or fix weeks of 
his labour, he gets to draw with the 
briflceft of the (tock. 

This is the only way to get the ox 
to hi s fpeed ; for at belt it is not great, 
nor will he ^e brought to it by force. 

The advantages of labouring with 
oxen are fo great, that it is wonderful 
the praiftice does not extend fartlier. 
The ox of eleven years old, when he 
is unfit for labour any longer, may be 
fattened as well as at any time ; and in 
the fame manner if he fall lame, or by 
any other accident be fpoiled for la- 
bour, at whatever age that happen, he 
may then be fed up tor fale. 

In this the ox has a great advantage 
over the horfe, which, when aged, or 
fpoiled by accidents, is good lor no- 
tliing, and becon.es an entire lofs, and 
often a very great one to the farmer. 

The f .'od of the horfe is alfo a very 
expenfive article to tlie hufbandman, 
but that cf oxen is cheap. They re- 
quire no oats. They are very little li- 
able to difeafes, whereas one is never 
fccure of a horfe at all. But though 
the ox does not require fo expenfive 
food as the horfe, yet fLch as he eats 
mult be good in its kind, and he muft 
not be ili'-ited. He muft always havs 
good grafs to go to, and good hay in 
winter, clfe he will be cf little fervice ; 
for thojgh he mult not be fatteneci 
in iiis time of working, yet if he be no: 
kept well fed, and in good fpirits, hi 
is worth nothing. 

'i he greatcrt ufe of the ox in the 
way of laboi;r, is that of [lowing, 
acd 'tit> that for vvhic!i they are fuitcd 

b-. 



O X E 

hy nature. They will work at this 'm 
the toughert and lie.iviert grounds as 
wtJi as liorfes, and do as much in a 
day. They do not ferve fo well for 
drawing of carts and waggons j and 
are not fit to be ufcd mucli in places 
where the roads are good. 

In moll counties the farmer would 
tlo well to train up feme oi his oxen 
for draiiglit, though it is better not to 
(Jepend upon them cntirtlyfor tiiat fer- 
\ice in any. Wc have (hewn for 
what they are moft, and for what they 
are lead tittcd. Every farmer ha.s oc- 
cafion both for carting and pJowing; 
and the liorfci are in general fitted for 
the foimer, and the cxen mod profit- 
able for the latter: therefore when 
ihcic are more teams than ens ktpt, 
fomc should be of hories, and ethers of 
oxen, propoitioning the number of t-i- 
'lier to the nature of the ftrvice, and 
cf the roacis and the ground. The 
Farmer who keeps two teams only, 
will almofl always find it his in;erell 
to have one of them of oxen, and the 
other of horfcs. 

In tl.iyey lands, the oxen are moft 
ufefiil j and in clialky countries the 
leaft ; the chalk . foon fpoiling their 
feet. 

It is a cuftom in fome places where 
oxen are ufed for draught, to yoke 
them by the horns, but this is awk- 
ward and trcublefome. It is left off 
in many places where it was once uftdj 
and ougl-.t to be in all. The common 
»vay cf yoaking them together by the 
neck and bread is vaftly preferable, 
but harnefsbefl of all. 

Whenever the farmer comes to a re- 
foluiion of keeping oxen for labour, 
let him at tiie fame time provide for a 
proper fupply cf them ; and fee t!at 
it be rather too much than too Utile, 
for ir will always be more to his pii fit 
to fell what he does rot want, than to 
buy for liis necefT.iry ufes. To this 
end he fnould rear at lead two oxen 
and two cow calves every year to keep 
up hi; I'ock; and put up his eld, or 
ii\iiired bcafts to fatten, and fupply 
their places from tliii breed as occafion 
rc«jeires : for an ox, as before f.iic', 
whethe-r put oifthe team forage or in- 
lufies, will lactcn as well as at any 
other time, and will bring a gocd 
price at market; and afi'ord as go.-d 
heet a^ any other that had net been 
wwrkcd. 



O X- F. 

Wh-n the hu/bandman buy* In cat-" 
tie to fatten, it fhould be either irv 
fpring, or toward the beginning of Oc- 
tober. Thcfe oxen which are bought 
in early in fpring, will, with proper 
care, be fat in July, Augud, or Sep- 
tember, according to the goodnefs of 
t!ie foil, aiwl the manner cf feeding 
them, and according to the condition 
wherein they were bought. An ox 
ihat is very forward when bought in, 
and is turned into a very rich padure, 
will be fit ftirmaiketin ten weeks j 
but there is no need tbat every ox that 
is bought for this puipofe, (hould be 
in this forward way j or that every 
cne rtiould be hadened to a market 
ecndiiion in that liuny. Tiie care of 
tile liiift>3ndiT)«n in this fhould be, to 
fuit liii endeavours to the nature of 
his grounds, and to the bell demand 
for the cattle : h.e may keep on fatten- 
ing the whole funimcr months, and an- 
fwer his purpcfe better bctli for the 
marker, and for having the bed fervice 
out of his laiid, than if he hadenetj 
up all that he bought, or bought only 
very forwa.'d ones. 

Thofe cxen tliai are hcugli: in about 
the beginning of Od^ober, will in ge- 
neral be fit forfale early in the follow- 
ing fpring. There requires fome ma- 
nagement in this article of the huiband- 
man's bufinefj, for without it he may 
lofe by his induftry, but with due care 
he wii! find a fufHcient piofit in this 
way. Thefe cattle being for fale early 
in fpring, will always fetch a good 
priee J but the winter feeding of them ■ 
may tafil/ run av.ay with what fhould 
be his prefit. 

The method is to forward thefe ir» 
fielh, before the winter fets in hard j 
and then to tr\ke care only to keep them 
up in flefri during tlie hard time, with 
hay or turneps. 

They may be tl;v;3 kept in a condi- 
tion for market whenever it is worth 
while to fell tl.em j and be furc of fat- 
tening up with great eafe very early in 
fpring, to a certain advantage. 

Another ve-ay cf buying cattle in tV.e 
bc-glnning oi O^cher, to gieat advan- 
tage, is to purchafe young lean cxen •, 
which will pay for thilr winter keep- 
ing !y their growth, and be ready to 
fatten up early in fprinr, to the faired 
and fulicd profit. 

Another very good time of buying 
oxen for feeding is in Augud, or the 

be- 



O X E 



o X i: 



\i^ 



H' 



V' 



beginning cf Septcmb?r. Thffe fhould 
be got forward as focn a^ may be, hy 
putting tliem inco very rich pallures, 
and they will be ready for the winter 
fale. 

This is the bell method the hufband- 
nnan can take, -a lio has rid: and tine 
paltuie ground \ for r.o oti.er will fup- 
port the large and valuaLile b^eed of 
thefe cxtn. But lie who happens not 
to liavc this a::vanf';e, is not altoge- 
ther to decline thus much ot the gra- 
zing hufinefs, which to the other j roves 
<b very advaritageous. 

ThereJar'' he wlio has but m^ide- 
rueJy good |)ailurage, and is Inclined 
to dca! this wiy, <hould fet about in a 
•different manner. Let him buy in a 
number of youni; Welch fieifers. In- 
stead ofoxo, in AujMitci September, 
and put th-.m into t^e be!l of his ordi- 
nary paf^urajes. He ij to take his 
chance whether thefe prove with calf or 
not, but either way tliey will anfwer 
his purpofe. 

If they prove with calf his bufinefs 
is tu keep them till fpring;, and then 
^e \\ ill fell thtm to a good advantage, 
v\-ith a calf by their fde, for the dairy. 
If they do not prove with calf they 
will prefently begin to fatten upon his 
ground, which, though poor, is yet 
very fine in comparifon of what they 
have been uftd to, and he will be able 
to fell them out at a very good account 
at Chriltmas or in fpring ; at both 
which times meat is dear, and confe- 
quently cattle fetch a price. 

Thefe heifers will, to the hufband- 
man thus fituated, anfwer, in fome 
nieafure, the purpofes of oxen ; and 
he is not to complain they do not bring 
altogether fuch a price ; becaufe nei- 
ther the cattle themfelves, nor their 
kcepiog, have colt him fo much as in 
the other in'.tance. Such land being 
cheaper than the rich and fine pallure 
groLnd, on which the large oxen may 
be fattened. 

But there is this to be conftdered, 
that the advantage will be the greater, 
in proportion as the farmer has tlie 
convenience of hay, or turneps, which 
are the two foods for winter fattening 
of cattle; and in proportion to his 
r.earnefs to fome large city, v.hers the 
demand and th; price will anfv/cr to 
the expenfive feeding of hay. .^bout 
great towns they mufl afTord to let a 
^caft cat a eoupjc load cf !iay in a 



winter, becaufe the demand Is certain 
and the price good •. but this will not 
do in remote plices. 

Let tliehufbandman who huys cattlt 
for fattening, take great care in the 
choice, for on that will dep-.nd a large 
fhare of his fuccefs. Let him examine 
their bulk and (hape, and the forward* 
ntfa they are in at the time, and after 
that proportion the goodnefs of the paf- 
ture to tlitir kind. 

, Thefe that are intended to be kept 
up for 3 winter, or early fpring market, 
muil be tur.ied out in September into 
the rowens, till t!)e weather become 
fcverc by much fnow or a \txy hard 
fro;'t \ and till this time they wiil not 
r.eed any fodder. 

Upon the coming in of the haid 
weather they muft have fome hay re- 
gularly every morning and evening, 
which muft be proportioned to v^'hat 
the ground ftill affords. The more 
they find there the lefs they want of 
tlie fupply ; and the lefs there is, the 
more hay muft h'" each time given them. 

The frofts ha\e rm effect upon erafs, 
efpeciaily upon the worft forts, to 
fweettn it. The four grafs v.hicU 
the cattle had left untouched (or a 
great while, becomes palatable to them 
after two or three nights good froft, 
with a large white ryme. They will 
eat this greedily ; and it will make hay 
the lefs necefTary, till the fnow covens 
ir, and tliey cannot get at it. 'Tis at 
thefe times the foddering is to be largeft 
and bed ; for without a due care they 
will, in a little time, lofe all the ad- 
vantage they had made in many weeks. 

For thofe oxen that were bouglu in 
lean, and arc not got into any great 
degree of fiefh by the beginning of the 
hard feafon, flraw will do inltead of 
hay: and the huibandman muft begin 
with bailey draw, and then corr.c to 
oat flraw, both which are very good 
food to cattle in this condition j and 
will keep them as they are, and in a 
readinefs for any farther improvement, 
when it comes upon eafy terms. 

Toward the end of winter the whole 
produrf of the ground that hath been 
thus fed, will be eaten up, and then 
the oxen are to be taken into the yard. 
If the hufbandmaii has oxen in two 
conditions, 'the one that he feeds with 
hay, the other witii (Law,) they muft 
be put up feparate ; and their feed muft 
br put up in tacks fcr them. 

T!rc 



O X E 



O X E 



The farmer often complains that eat off the top?} but as they will mtd- 

Iiis cattle \m11 not eat their foHder, die with no more of it, when thii is 

when thsy art ia!<en up into the >ard, done they fhould be removed out of it. 

thouj;h they did freely when it was Horfcs are then to be turned in, who, 

given them in the field. But this is not being fo nicc as the ox will eat it 

generally owing to the folly of giving down lower; ard after thefe he may 

them too much at a time. Ad ox will feed it <vith fluep, which will flill find 



often eat heartil; and freely out of the 
crib for a time, till when he had often 
breathed upon it, what wa'i lift be- 
came quite dif.'grecjbic to hI:Ji. 

This is a delicacy in the natureof tiie 



a great de^i for rlieir purpofe, that the 
ox and the horfc had botli left. 

If the paftures in the fjrmcr's grounds 
be all of nearly the fame kmd, and all 
of a proper grafj for feeding of his 



animal, and notliinj can break liini of oxen, flill Ut him frequently chsni^e 

it; but sll the inconvenience of it is tluir nhce, removing from one of the 

eafily pieventcd, by giving tlit^c cattle clofes to another. ii::^ an''wers a 

a little at a time, and often. This be- double purpofe ; it gives the catiie a va- 

jng, for all reafons, the befl way o; riety of food, and it gives every piece 

foddering all cattle in the yard. of the ground reft at times to ftioct 

Let the hulbandman take care that afrelh after their eating. Their tafte 

his yard be well Sheltered, and kept dry. is fo nice as to diftinguilh the growth 

Let there be rtraw enough fcattered where it appears to our eye all the fame ; 

about it, that his cattle may lie fweet and thereiore they will be pleafed with 

and warm ; this will greatly aflifl in removing from one ground to another : 

keepinc; then in good cafe; and he and each clofc will fhoot up with fpirit 

need not grudge tlie expence, for what and frelhnefa from their cropping of it, 

the ftraw is worth v.'ill be many times when it is quiet for a little time from 

over made up to hi.Ti in dung. Their the treading of their feet. 
trampling this litter, with their dung Let the iuifbandman always purchafe 



and urine, converts the whole into 
very rich manure; and the quantity 
becomes fo confjderable, that it is an 
article of great confequence 



as large a breed as his ground will main- 
tain; and by this management he will 
find it fupport a better fort than per- 
haps he might imagine it could, or 
When oxen are put to be fattened on than it in reality would do, in the hands 
land, they may be turned in either alone of a lefs fkilful peifcn. The fizeof the 
or with horfe>- ; or they may be put ox is a va(t article, for it makes great 
into the paliures firft, and the horfes addition both in the fiefh and tallow, 
aftervvards. Whichever way i'- u cd. Let the ox have a fmooth foreiiead 
let the hufb ndman take care of the and a deep belly, if he he intended for 
time of turning in his oxen. Many fattening. The Arength of his joint 
think they ought to let the erafs be is more the matter when he is firft de- 
very well grown before they put them figned for labour. ^_ 

to feed upon it; but they are greatly In buying oxen for fattening prifer--'^^ ^' 
miltaken. There is not a greater dif- ence is to be given to the young ,-^but ^t/^, 
advantage the faimer can lie under, in if they befomewhat older, let the farmer 
this way, than the having his piftures fee that they are healthf.l. Let him 
too high grown before he puts the feed his own breed for (laughter, if he 
bea.'ls into them./^Aj>tr/r7^/^cni)*^ ufes their labour till the bed time of 
The ox is a nice creatur^ and does their working is over, as before di- 
rotlove a rank crafs. In this cafe tiiey redled ; but let him not bring them in 
only nip the tops, and the remainder for fattening at that age, without he 
rots upv n the ground. When grafs is bargain accoidingly. 
grown too high, in autumn cfpecially. It is always a good fign of health 
it becomes four, and the cattle will that an ox frequently licks himfclf. It 
net eat it freely before the froft has is a proof that he is in good humour 
fweciened it to their tafte. with himfelf, .ind infpirit; for when 

If it happen the farmer have at this they grow fickly, dull, and dronirti, tliey 
feafon of the ye^r, a part ure ground of utterly negleft thcmfelves, and their 
•all eraf'^, the hs(\ method he can fol- cr.at becomes rough, and Hares for 
low "is this. Let him f.rft turn in his want of this little care of tlieir own, 
oxen in a proper number, and tijcy V ill which keeps it in order^ 

Never- 



O X 



O X 



Vcvfrthelef^-, every thing is to be ufi- 
ricrllood witliin ilic bounds of mo<)era- 
tion. Thi< licking of himfcll", which 
'f> in general a fign t^f health in the 
ex, may b- a difeafe. They will fome- 
times lick till they cannot eat,<or tiiey 
fwallow a grea: many of the hairs they 
lick off, and they will fonftiines get 
together into a kind of ball in the 
ftomach, whicli will impair the crea- 
t'lre'i health. In tiiis cafe the owner 
iiiuA, at times, wa(h the ox with a 
/Iron? decof^icn of worm wood, which 
isa tafte it abhors ; and tin linp this bit- 
terntf-. on the (kin, it will be cured of 
licking ; as children are weaned by rub- 
bing the nipple with aloes. 

Some, for this purpofe, cover the 
cre^jture with his own dung, but this 
is a filthy way. As the licking is al- 
way:. done for tleanlinefs, the ox will 
often tire himfelf, from day to day, 
with endeavouring to get this off; or 
elfc he will utterly neglect himfelf, 
which will proveof as bad confequence. 

'n examining how the ox proceeds 
in fattening, the furefl way is to fetl 
the hindermoft rib. If all be foft and 
loofe about that, 'tis a proof that the 
creature is getting into good flefh. The 
part behind the fhoulders in an ox, and 
the navel of a cow, are the parts to be 
examined, to know how they encreafe 
in tailow. //^o n/'/^je^f^f/fi/> . 

finally, there is one thing we fhall 
recommend to the hufbanciman very 
Itrongly, from experience, as excellent 
toward the fattening of cattle, and this 
is the bleeding of them at proper limes, 
Tliis (h.ould be done once at leaft, and 
commonly it may be done twice, with 
great benefit during their feeding. 

The method to be obfcrved is tliis: in 
the cattle bought in fpring, always to 



bleed them as foon as thry are put to 
parture, which makes them take to fat- 
tenmg dircc'tly. In thcfe bought in ■ 
autumn, follow the fame method of 
bleeding, at the time of turning into 
good pafture J wliich will not only help 
their fattening, but prevent diforders. 
This is all there is to do with thofe in- 
tended for the winter market ; but for 
fuch as were bought lean to be kept 
for growing in winter, and fattened up 
in fpring, have them blcoded twice, 
once when they are bought in, and a 
fecond time eariy in fpring, when they 
are goin? into the palture for fattening. 

OX-BOOSE. Anox (tall, orcow- 
fiall, where thefe creatures ftand in the 
winter. 

OX-HARROWS. Very large har- 
rows, called, in fome counties, drags. 

OX-GANTG, or Ox ga:c. A quan- 
tity of land meafurin^ fifteen acres, be- 
ing as much ground as a fingle ox is- 
fuppofed to be capable of ploughing in 
a year. 

OX-EYE, {Buphthalmui^..'] There are 
feveral fpecies of herbaceous and 
fhrubby plants, which ornament the 
pleafure garden and green-houfe, and 
are all propagated by feeds and cuttings. 

O X E y E- D A I S Y, {Bill.i .Mapr.\ 
This plant is frequent in field.', and 
among corn, flowering in May or June. 
The leaves have a mucilaginous, fub- 
faline, rouglufh tafte. They are faid 
to be detergent, rtfolvent, aperient, 
and alfo moderately ailringent. Geof- 
froy relates, that t'.ie herb, gathered 
before the fiowers have come forth, and 
boiled in water, imparts an acrid talle, 
penetrating and fuhtile like pepper j 
and that this decodion is an excellent 
vulnerary and diuretic. 

OX-SLir. A fpecies of cowflip. 



Vol .11. 



PACK.. 



p. 



P A I 



P A I 



PACK-HORSE. A horfe ufe* for 
carrying loads on a faddle made 
for that piiipofe. 

PACfC-SADDLE. A faddle con- 
trived for the carrying of burthens on 
a horfe's back. 

PACK, o/" ^rW, is feventeen ftone 
and two pounds, or two hundred and 
forty pounds weight, 

PAD. An eafy pacing horfe. 

Pad. a low faddle. 

Pap. A load, a path. 

PADDLE, An inftrument to open 
^tters in a water courfe, to clean the 
ploughfhare fronv dirt, weeds, &«. 

PADDOCK. A fmall fkld or 
Jnclofure. 

PAIGLE. A cowflip. 

PAIL. A wooden veflel to carry 
water or milk in. 

PAINS, *r luat try fores on the legs and 
pajiems, Thefe are caufed by a feroos 
matter oozing through the pores, which 
IS indued witli fuch a (harpnefs, that 
it makes the hair fall off from feveral 
parts of the legs and pafterns ; fome- 
times it looft its theC»'r?»^ffiom the hoof ^ 
and fometimes the flefli appears as if 
It was disjoined from tlie bones and 
finews; wherever the matter runs, it 
fo hardens the fkin, tiiat it is apt to 
break out into cracks and lefts, which 
difcharge abundance of flinking mat- 
ter, as in the aljovementioned cafe. The 
cure confids chiefly in internals, and 
in tiiofe things that are proper to rec- 
tify the blood, as decoflions of box- 
wood, giiajacum and faflafras,. &c. or 
the faid woods may be rafped and mist 
With his oats, and fometimes among 
dry bran. All the medicines prefcribed 
in the farcin may be made ufe of in this 
cafe; but if the hoifc be inclinable to 
a dropfy, which may be kno^vn by the 
yielding of the fweiling, and likewife 
as the fore legs will alfo be afFe£ted,- 
and by the other figns peculiar to that 
distemper, he mult then be treated 
accordingly ; mean while the following 
%plic2<ion5 n'.ay bf made outward^v 



* Taftc honc}', terpentine, and hog's- 
' greafc, of each a like quantity : melt 

* them 07er a gentle fire in a glazed 
' pipkin^ and add a lufficient quantity 

* of wheat fibur to make it into a 

* poultice.' Or this : 

' Take foenugreek meal, bean flour, 
' linfeed meal, and niuflard feed 

* pounded, of each a like quantity. 

* Boil them over a gentle fire, with a 

* fufficient quantity of ointment of 
' marfh-mallows; into the confiAence 

* of a poL-tice.' 

Thefe mull be applyed warm to the 
legs and pafterns-. to draw out the mat- 
ter, and bring down the fweiling. If 
there be foulnefs, youlmay take a pound 
of black foap, l>a]f a pound of honey, 
four ounces of burnt allnm, two ounces 
of verdigreafe in powder, a pint of 
brandy or fpirit of wine, with a fuffi- 
cient quantity of wheat flour. Let 
this be fpread on cloths, and applyed as 
the foimer. 

As Toon ns the fweiling is abated, 
and the moifture dryed up, it muft be 
very convenient to keep the legs and 
paftcrns roiled up with firm bandage, 
whereby the parts will not only be kept 
clofe, hut the influx of frefh matter 
prevented ; for the continuance or fre- 
quent returns of thofe watery erupti- 
ons brings fuch a loofencfs into the 
kgs, that It caufes a coitennefs in the 
frufh, breeds fpfints ; and, fometimes 
by rotting tl-re tendons, becomes the 
caufe of quitter-bones, foundering, and 
other diftempers in the feet. 

PAINPISS, cr Soar^ufy. This dif- 
esfe iiappcns moO frequently wher> 
thereis anobflriidionof thedimg hard- 
ened and indurated in the flraight gut, 
yet fometimes it proceeds from another 
caufe, and i3 moft tikely occafioned i»y 
an inflammation of the bladder, or an 
ulcer in the kidneys ; for when there 
happens to be an ulcer in thofe parts, 
the Tnarpnefs of the matter proceeding 
from thence may no doubt caufe pain, 

when 



PAL 



PAN 



when It paflTrs into the Unthra or p!fs- 
pipe, by abrading and carrying off the 
muius that (hould defend that fenlible 
part, fo that a horfe in tliis cafe mull 
pifs in pain ; «nd as this will alfo c.iufe 
an inflammation there, initead of plf- 
fing freely, he will often dribble. 

An inflammation in thofe parts, ari- 
iJng from any otiiercaufe, as hard riding, 
too long a detention of his urine, ha* 
generally the fame etfed j but an in- 
flammation of this kind happens the 
more readily if there be a lenccr of the 
dung. 

To remove all fuch disorders, it wilj 
be neceflary to give emollient foftning 
clylters, made of a decoflion of mal- 
lows, marfh-maliows, mercury, camo- 
mile and the like, with a mixture of 
oils and other flippery things, or clyf- 
ters ma.He of fat broths ; and to make 
Chein a little purgative, common treacle 
or manna may be diflbvcd in them, to 
the quantity of fix ounces or half a 
pound. 

Half an ounce of Sul Prunella or pu - 
rifyed nitre may be dilTolved in his wa- 
ter for two or three days together, or 
two ounces of crude tartar may be boiled 
in it; and among his provender niiy he 
mixt the leaves oi iV-a.v berries, rad- 
dilhes and turnip-tops. 

But if after hard riding you have 
reafon to fufpeft an inflammation ia 
the kidneys, the bladder, orurmary paf- 
faee, which muft at tiic; famt- time be 
accompanied with feveriih fymptoms, it 
will then be very pre per to take blood 
from the neck vein, and the ufe of the 
clyfters may be epeated as often as you 
fliall ftc occafion ; bi:t if you have rea- 
fon to fear pn ulcer in the kic'nevs, in 
that cafe al. cieanftn : balfamic medi- 
cines are :o be complied with, for which 
purpofe we chiefl) recommended the 
following balls. 

Take gum benjamin half a pound. 
Balfam of capivi, i-lour of brim- 
flone, each fix oiincc: Bees wax 
three ounces. Crude opium one 
ounce. Honey lour .-unces. Beat 
them well together with fyrup of 
marfh-mallows, en.ugh to ni.ike 
into balls of two ounces each one 
to be given every mcrnin.:, an hour 
before his water. 
PALATE, Fullirg iff. A trouhle- 
Tomediforder in oxen, tr cm over diivina-, 
&.S. rub the palate \v;th pepper and 
/ajt nxixt together. 



PALC. A piece of wood fplit or 
fawed, for the purpofe of fencing, where 
hedges cannot be made, or are not fuf- 
ficiently fecure. 

PALING. Fencing with pales. 

I'ALISADE. A row of handfome 
pales fet up by way of ornament or de- 
fence. The gardeners ufe this word to 
denote a row of trees, which bear 
branches and leaves from the bottom, 
cut and fpread in the manner of a gar- 
den wall, along the fide of an alley or 
the like, fo as to appear like a wall co- 
vered with leaves, 

PALM-TREE, There are fcveral 
fjjecies of this tree, as the DATE-fr<^, 

MAC.WV-tree, CABBACE-/r«, &C. 

PALMETTO. A fpecies of palm, 
the leaves of which are ufed as thatch 
in the Weft-Indies. 

PALMS. Theflowersof the willow. 
Palsy. This diforder has been 
ufually reckoned the fame with the /tag- 
gers, hut certainly, without any reafon 
whatfoever ; the former implies the 
abfence of fever or Ain^ulu , the latter, 
an incrcafed degree; in the one, warm 
cordials will be n-eceflary ; in the other, 
emollients and anodynes. Warm ftimu- 
iating embrocations ^^ ill be very proper, 
buch 35 rhe follo-.vin^ : 

Take riirirs of wme and camphor 6 
ounces, fjunts of fal arvnoniac z 
ounces, mix and bathe the pan af- 
fc<3ed night anj mornmi^. 
Such medicines (hould t)c given as 
will promote the circulation of the 
blood. Such are the following balls: 
Take alTafcetida fix ounces, grains 
of paradife in powder two ounces, 
aloes two ounces, honey to make 
6 balls, give one ni^ht and morning, 
PANIC, [Panici:m.'] A plant re- ,, ', 
fembling millet in its nalks, leaves, and *^<?c. /A 
roots ; but differing in its fpikes, or ~~~~~ 
ears, which are about the thicknefs of 
a man's finger at their bafe, and grow- 
ing taper tovi ard their points. They are 
about eight or nine inches long, and 
clofely fci with i fm.ill roundifli grain, 
fometimsi white, fometimes red or pur- 
ple, and fometimes yellow. It is raifed 
and reaped in the fame manner as mil- 
let, but does no' require fo much rain. 
This i-lint grows naturally in both the 
Indies, and is cultivated in many parts 
of Europe for the food of men. Cakes 
and bread are made of it in Germany, 
Italy, and the fouthern parts of France; 
but it is not reckoned fo good nourilh- 

fnent 



PAR 



PAR 



hicnt as millet ; nor is tiie Cerman 
lort (o much elleemed as the Italian j 
though the former ripens btft in cold 
countries, where it h Irequcntly fowcd 
in land which will not produce better 
I^rjyn, It thiives luoft in a dry (liff.fli 
toil, fuch ai the lidrs of hills, and even 
in Aony ground ; grows to the height 
of about four fett, and tranches very 
much; foi which reafon thehcrfe-hoe- 
ing hufoamhy is by far the fittifl for it. 
The plants, if man,;gi.d rightly, (hould 
Itand eight'jen inc; e» afundi-r, in rows 
three feet apart, that tlitre may be room 
to hoe the ground between them, and 
to keep them clear f:om weeds. W hen 
grown pretty tall, they fticuld be fup- 
portcd by (iakes, lell the wind bieak 
them down ; and particul.ir caie mult 
be taken to guard againll birds when 
their feeds bt;gin to ripen. 

PANNAGE. Thelood which fwine 
feed upon in woods, as acorns, and tlie 
mafts of heech. It alfo fignifies the 
money taken by tiie King's agidors, for 
the privikge of leeding hogs in the 
King's foiells. 

PANNEL. A low fdddle. 

PANSIES. Hcarts-eafe. 

PANTING-EVIL. A difcrder in 
cattle, caufed by extraordinary labour, 
over heat,&c. ti.e fymptoms are, great 
faintnefs :«nd unwillingnefs to move, 
fighing, moaning, &:c. 

Let the beafl be kept very quiet and 
be fupported with fome ale fpiced, and 
bread fopped in it ; or, boil foir.e rofe- 
mary, and fcn-.e wormwood, in fome 
ale, and give the beafi to drink. 

Give an ounce of Bracken's cordial, 
every four, fix, or, eight hours. Let 
the food be a little bran and oats, wiiii 
/ome very fweet hay. 

PANTILES. A peculiar kind of 
tiles made of clay, moulded and burnt. 

PAPAW. A plant of the gourd, or 
J'qunfh kind, growing in the Caribbt-e 
Klands, and the warmer parts of Ame- 
rica. IVIay he prcp.igated as melcr.s. 

PARADISE-APpLf. a kind of 
apple tree, foimerly much fcl'tcemtd for 
llocks to graft on. 

Grains cf Paraimse. This fruit is 
about the fize of a fig, divided ir.ter- 
naily into three cells, in each of which 
are contained two rows cf fmall feeds 
like cardamoms. Thefe feeds aie fome- 
what more grateful, and confiderably 
}Tiore pungent, than t!ie common crr- 
dpjnp.iis, apprcacliing in ilijs ref|3ccl to 



pepper, with which they agree alfo in 
their phaiiiiaceutic.ll |Toptrtic-s: their 
pungency rcfiding, not in the diflillcd 
oil, as that of cardamom feeds does, 
but in the rsfm txtradtcd by fpirit of 
wine. 

PAREIRA DRAVA. This is the 
root of an American convolvulus, 
brought to us Ircm BrdZii, in pieces of 
different fizes, feme no bigger than 
one':> finger, oihei^ as large as a child's 
arm : ii is crooked, and varioufly 
wiinkltd on the furface; outwarc ly of 
a dark colour, internaily of a dull ytl- 
lowifh, ard interwoven with wocdy 
tibres, fo that upon a tranfvtife ftfttior, 
a number of ccncentric circles apjiear, 
croffed with fi-res, vi'hicii run troni 
the center to the circumference : it has 
no fmell ; the lafle is a little bittei i/><, 
blended witli a fwettnefs, like that of 
liquorice. This root is hignly extolled 
by the Brazilians and Portuguefe, in a 
great variety of difeafes, particularly 
againff fuppreificns of urine, nepliiitic 
pains, and the calculus. In the two 
firfl, Geoffroy fa)s he lias given it with 
good fuccefs, and that the patient was 
a!inofl inilantiy leiieved by it, a copi- 
ous difcharge cf urine fuccecding. He 
likewife obferved large quantities of 
gravel, and even fmall ifones, voided 
after its ufe : this effeft he attributes 
not to any lithontriptic power, but to 
its diflolving the vifcid mucus, by 
which the fabulous matter had been 
detained. He likewife relate^, that liC 
has had frequent experience of the good 
effefis of this root in deterging and 
healing ukero of the kidneys and blad- 
der, wheie the utine came away puru- 
lent and mucous, and couid not be 
\oidtd at all without extreme pain 3 
by the ufe of ihe/:<:n!>j, the urine foon 
became clear, ar.d of a due conliftence, 
and was evacuated freely ; and by join- 
ing to this medicine balfam of Ci(paiba, 
tiie ulcer perftdly healed. The atte- 
nuatinjqualiry, which he had difcovtrtd 
in thib root induced him to make trial 
of ir in other difeafes. proceeding froiri 
ttnac}Ctis juices, and in thefc likewife 
it ti;!ly anfwered his expe£lations : in 
humoral aP.hmas, where the lungs were 
Cuffed up, and the palient almoft fuf- 
focattd by thick phLgm, an infuficn 
o( pcre':r.ni alter many other medicines 
had picved ir'et!'e<ffual, occafioned a 
plentiful exptdJoration, and foon com- 
plttcd a cure : ia the Jaundice, proceed- 
ing 



PAR 



PAS 



lAg from thick bile, it did excellent fer- 
viccj but in another iftcrical caTe, 
where tlit liver was Iwcll^d and hare, 
this medicine did no good. His doie 
of ti)e root in I'libllance is from twelve 
grains to halt a dram, in dt.-co<t>ion 
two or thice drams. 

PARK-LCAVES. St. John's wort. 

PAKSLEV. The name of a weil- 
kno»vi» htrb, \^hich is cultivated in 
gardens Icr culinary purpoles, it being 
m&rt ufeJ in the kitchen than any criicr 
iierb whaifoevtrj it wiil toiirably en- 
dure cold, but is apt to be deftroyed 
Jn very fevcre winters, cfpeciaily whcic 
the land is nioiii^ it is conimonly 
fown in tl'.e fpring, and fends foah a 
ftalk the year after, which fioweis in 
June or Ji:ly, and the feeds ripen in 
Augull. 

The common paifley is, by feme 
Ikiiful ptcple, cultivated in fields ior 
the ufe of Iheep, it being a fovereign 
remedy to prefcrve them from the rot, 
provided they are t^d twice a week, 
for two er three hours each time, with 
ti.is herl) : but hares and rabbits are fo 
fond <.f it, that t.^ey will come from a 
great diftance to feed on it. 

Baftard- Parsley. See Bastard. 

MounfainPAKiLF.Y. Candy carrot. 

Maccdor.iar. Parsley. The feeds 
of the Macedcnir.n parflcy area iliong 
xarminacive, it is cultivated by feed, 
like the common paifley. 

Eajlard-ftor.e Parslev. See Bas- 
tard Stone Parsley. 

PARSNEP, [P.i/}ina.a.] Tlie name 
of a well known root, cultivated in 
the fame manner as carrots. If you 
intend to fave the feeds of this plant, 
you fliculd make choice of fonie of the 
longeU, itraiteft, and largtfl roots, 
which fhould be planted about two 
feet afunder, in fonie place where they 
may be defended from tlie ftrong fomh 
and well winds ; for the Items ol tliefe 
plants commonly grow to a great 
jitight, and are fubjedt to be broken by 
flrong winds, if expofcd thereto; they 
fliould be conftantly kept clear from 
wecdi, and if the feafon fliould prove 
vtr> dry, ycu fhoi:ld give them feme 
water twice a week, which will caufe 
them to produce a great quantity of 
{ttdi, which will be much ilrori'.^r 
than if they were wholly neglefted. 
Toward the latter end of Auguft, or 
the beginning of Stptember, the feeds 
will be ripe 3 at wiiicli time you flu uid 



cnrcfully cut off the heads, and fpread 
il.tm upon a coarfe cloth fcr two or 
three days to dry ; alter which, the 
feeds fhculd be beaten off, and put up 
fcr ufe ; l)ut you fliruld never tiuft ro 
thefe feeds after they aic a year old, 
ior they vsill feidomgiovv beyond that 

PASSION. FLOWER, [P.f'fora.'] 
The name of a very hcjutitul plant, 
having long flcnder Ualks, which run 
a gieat length, and require fuppottj 
they are covered with a putpiifji hark, 
and are furniflied at eadi juint with a 
digitated ieai, compofed ot fivcfmooth 
entire lobes, conntdled with the flalk 
by pedicles, alout two inches long, 
hnvii.g two imall leaves embracing tlie 
ftall-.s at thtir bafe ; and from tiie fame 
point ccmes out a k ng tendril, which 
tv.ilts round the neighbouring fupporr j 
the flowers come cut at the fame joints 
as the leaves, fupported en footllalks 
al.moll tiiree inches long j thefe flowers 
have a faint fmell, and continue but 
one day j they come out in July, and 
there is a diurnal fucceffion till the fiofl 
in autunm puts a Ifop to ti.em. 

This plant may be propagated either 
from feeds, layers, cr cuttings ; they 
require a good afpcfted wall j where 
they may have heigh; (or their flioots 
to extend, which fliould be properly 
trained a^ainft it; and in the fpiing, 
the plants mufl be pruned, when all 
tl efinall we.dc (hocts fhould be cut off, 
and the flrong ones fliOitened to about 
ft i.r or five icet long, which will caufe 
them to put out flrong flioots for flow- 
ering the fcllowing funimcr. ' 

PASTURE- LAND, Is properly 
fuch land as being laid down to giafs, 
is kept for the purpofeof fee^ipg cat- , 
tie, not for mowing ; but this difiinc- 
tion is not flriflly obferved, and it 
moft ufually .means, all lands which 
have been laid down to graf;-, whctl^er 
for mowing, or feeding of cattle. See __ 

1 he following methocrof im[iroving 
wet pastures, feems to be ilie icfuit of 
experience. 

" A.'i I liavc, fays an ingenious huf- 
bandman, within a few years, not 
only had (cn)c experience in my own 
farm, but oolervfcd tlie methods em- 
ployed by many neighhotrring gentle- 
men and farmers in mending their paf- 
tures, 1 fliall communicate a few of my 
leniaiks toyou on the improvement of 

wet 



P A & 



PAS 



wet paftures ; which may prove, per- 
haps, of lome little utility, as I (hall 
f])eak of;iothing but wliat I haveeiilicr 
performed myftU, or ftcn heieabouts. 

" The particular lands of which I 
fpeak are loofe, woodcQck, brick-earth 
foils, for about eighteen or twenty 
inches, and under tliat, clay to a great 
depth. 

" Some that I have drained myfelf 
were exaflly level, fo as to be quite 
poifoned with the wet, which could 
not drain of. 

" From the beft obfervations I 
could make on many experiments, the 
following is the method which anfwers 
beft to improve them. I fliall alfo give 
you the txpence with us. 

" The ririt thing to be done is, to make 
large, deep ditch'.s round every ficM, 
and, if the fields are large, to divide 
them into fmaller, of five, fix, or 
feven acies each, by new ditches ; no- 
thing is attended with a moie fudden 
improvement of all the ground near 
the borders of the fields, than good 
ditches. 

" I generally make mine fix feet per- 
pendicular deep, feven wide at top, 
and three at bottom. I never pay for 
them by the rod (which is cuflomary) 
but give two-pence lialfpenny per load, 
of thirty bufhels, for all the clay, &c, 
that is throv/n out of them, and two 
shillings and fixpencea fcore loads for 
filling and fpreading it. 

" Thofe ditches fhould be made in 
fuch a manner that no water can re- 
main in them, but a defcent from one 
to another, to carry it quickly off. 

" It may eafily be imagined how 
much thefs mu(t drain the land, be- 
lides the quantity of manure (clay) 
■which arifcs out of them. Add to 
this the great convenience of having 
fuch fences about a farm, that the far- 
mer is'l'ure to find liis cattle wheiever 
he turns them, inltead of their break- 
ing perpetually into his corn or hay 
islds, which, in multitudes of fatms, 
is fo often the cafe : it is fometimes 
the work of a hoy, only to be hunting 
at'er hogs and (lieep that go altray for 
'.vant of good fences. 

*' In the banks of new ditches we 
always lay whitethorn, fifty roots to 
a rod (the workmen are allowed fix- 
pence per hundred for gathering them;) 
hnt I always avoid intermixing any 
■.'.lipg with it, efpecialiy haf^l, for in 



the nut fcifon, fences are pulled to 
pieces for the truit, by all the boys and 
girls in the neighbourhood ; and oak, 
afh, &c.only gives an opportunity to 
get over the hedge with greater eafc. 
Sallow, willow, elder, &c. ate to be 
avoided in the hedge, or byway of hcdge- 
<lake for the dead hedge, as they grow 
fo faft as quite to overlhadow the quick, 
and even dellroy it. After frequent 
cuttings, to render tlie plants thick 
and firong, I keep the quick regularly 
clipped, which, in a few years, lend- 
ers the fence impenetrable to man or 
beaft, ccnfidering the largenefs of the 
ditch. 

" If an old fence is grown bad and 
thin, or compofcd of improper plants, 
I never yet oblerved it improved by 
planting quick in the gaps : the be(t 
way is, to reverfe the bank, and plane 
frerti quick. 

" One advantage arifingfrom good 
fences is not apparent at fitit light. To 
the difgracebeit fpoken of molt of the 
gentlemen of large fortunes round 
Bury, the game is wretchedly dellroyed 
by poachers, who take it with night, 
nets. Thefe vermin, who are gene- 
rally labourers, fv. ^rin in every village 
round me. Their method is this: 
they take the farmer's horftrsout of iiis 
fields, and, after their doing a hard 
day's work, ride them all night, as 
faft as they can make them go, over 
the bubbles, to catch the partridges, 
blundering over every hedge (except 
fuch as I have defcribed) in their 
way, oftentimes flaking the horfes 
miking gaps in the fences, riding over 
ftanding corn, clover for feed, or any 
thing that is a cover for birds, and, 
after damaging the farmer in a molt 
(hameful manner, carry the produce 
of their infamous labour to many, 
who, to their gieat difhonour, encou- 
rage thefe rafcals for theirjconvenience. 
The money they get is fpent at the 
next alehoufe, and inltead of doing the 
farmer a good day's work, they are 
drunk, afleep, or idle, the whole day. 
" Now there are very few farmers 
liorfes that will leap a gate ; but moft 
will plunge through fuch hedges as are 
common hereabouts: none could pafs 
fuch ditches as I always make and re- 
commend. A farmer in this parifh 
has fo efTeftually fenced in his fields 
with prodigious ditches, that I have 
heard him declare, that not a finglc 
night- 



A S 



PAS 



night-rctter has been on Ms grounds 
on horl'e-back ; and were tlity to at- 
tempt it, they would lofe more time 
in palTin^one ditch than was neceiTary 
10 draj; feme whole farms. 

" The pernicious efte£ts, to farmers, 
of this abominable practice, are noto- 
rious, .md cry aloud for redrels : if 
they would eafe themfelves, 1 know of 
no way but fuch ditclics as 1 have 
dcfcribed. 

•' But to return : 

" When the ditchin? is done, the 
next work is to land-drain the whole 
fields in fuch a manner that every part 
of them may be laid dry. In a palture 
of fix acres, I did two hundred rods. 
If there is the lafl fall in any part, or 
any place more wet than others, the 
drains fhould be cut through them. If 
the furface is exJcfUy level, the depth 
of the drains fhould vary, fo that the 
water may every where have a defcent, 
" Thefe drains are made here, in 
general,thirty-twoinches deep, twenty 
inches wide at the top, and four wide 
at the bottom. They are filled eight 
inches deep.with either ftones or wood ; 
but I fhali ever recommend the for- 
mer, as the mo(t efFeflual and lafting, 
to thofe who are not defirous of faving 
the difference of the expence. How- 
ever, I know many fields in this parifti 
and neighbourhood that are drained 
with wood, and which anfwer ex- 
tremely well 5 and I have been aflTured 
that they will laft twenty or thirty 
years. Nay, in forr^e parts of Eflcx I 
hear they do it with ftraw alone j but 
this muft be of fervice for only a few 
yesrs : if flone be ufed, there can be 
no doubt of its hfting. The labour 
of the whole is three-pence per rod; 
fometimes it is done for two-pence 
halfpenny. 

" If with ftone of the farmers, a 
load of thirty buftiels will do three 
rods, which colts one fhilling and a 
halfpenny iftubbin^ and picking; (o 
the exptnce of a rod is feven-pence, 
befides carriage of the Hone, which 
is not much : but if he buys his itone, 
as is much the moft probable in this 
country, we may fuppofe he murt go 
two miles to fetch it, and give a fhil- 
ling for eiglueen buOiels ready picked ; 
the carriage is worth a fhilling more. 
and reckoning the eighteen bufhels to 
do a rod and half (wliich is near tl,e 
matter) the ftone of it will coft per 
ro<i, or.c /billing and four-penee. 



" If bufhes are ufed, a load offorfy 
faggots will colt if he buys them, or 
be worth it he has them, five fhillings, 
and coll cutting one fliiUing. They 
will do ten rods ; fo that the whole ex- 
pence of doing a rod with them will 
be ten-pence, and of ftone one /hilling 
and feven-pence. 

*' The very firfl year the prodlgiou* 
advantage of thefe drains appears, ef- 
pecially if the feafon proves wet. Tlis 
grafs (or corn if in ploughed fields, for 
it anfwersinall) will be frefli, vigorous, 
and fweet, wherever the pallures arc 
drained. 

" I have a field of fix acres (men- 
tioned above) which by land draining, 
ditching, and manuring, is an exceed- 
ing good pallure, and has producecl 
two tuns and ten hundred weight of 
hay per acre, in a very good year, and 
generally thirty-five hundred weight 
per acre; whereas the pallures adjoin- 
ing are fcarce worth the farming, and 
let but at feven rtiillings an acre, pro- 
ducing fcarce any thing, but a little 
feed for lean cattle. The foil is the 
fame in both ; the fix acres, about 
twelve years ago, being full as bad as 
the reft. 

" To Improve fuch wet land, no- 
thing can be more advantageous than 
the clay which is thrown out of the 
ditches. Eighty loads per acre is the — 
quantity I have laid on, and have beea 
tcld by feveral fenfible farmers (who 
clay a good deal) that it is a proper 
covering ; but if nothing is mixed with 
it, ninety-five or one hundred. I 
know a piece of grafs-land greatly im- 
proved, on which were fpread one 
hundred and fifty loads. 

" My method is to make a lar^s 
hill of manure, by firft layinga quan- 
ti'.y of clay regularly on a l.eap; then »?^i2 (a/// 
placing a thin layer of muck, fuch a$ ^A^^'f- 
I have, upon it^ either my ftable or 
rack-yard dung, or bringing it of any 
kind in my waggon from Eury; on 
this layer, another thick one of clayj 
then the fecond of dung, and fo on ; 
letting iIk proportion be about twenty 
loads of dung to fifty of clay. Thefe 
heaps, after remaining fix months 
withont ftirring, I mix A'cU together 
by turning them over, which a work- 
man will do at the rate of eight fhii. 
lings for one hundred loads. Let it lie 
fix months longer in *\\\% ftare, and 
thsn carry i: on to tii; land, paying 

twb 



PAS 



P A 8 



two fhillin^t and fix-pence per fcore 
loads for hllinv; and fprcidiiitc. This I 
tr.kc, from exj-trience, to be by much 
the be(t way of manuring with tlay, 
as it works and impregnates the foil 
much fooner than alone. 

" Whenever I clay arable land, I do 
it on clover partures, aftir the crop of 
corn is off, managing it in tlie fame 
manneras for paftures. If it ia ploughed 
jndirciflly, it is feveial yiiars before it 
woiks; but iiaving a winter and fum- 
nier to dilTolve and powder it, it 
wafhes into the foil more equ.illy, and 
in a preparer Itate tor improvement. 
'• Thefc are the principal points to 
be obftrved in improving fuch wet, 
fold, locfe, palturi.s as I have dc- 
fciihed : fome tliat I have quite changed 
by thcfe means were half over-run witli 
mofs and rufhcs; but draining them 
ihorougl'.ly, and cla>. ing them, kills 
all rubbirti of this fort, and prcfents 
the farmer with fo admirable a view 
of good pafture lor dairy orgiazing, 
where fo lately nothing could iiv;, as 
is to be equalled in fcarce any th'n^ of 
the kind. 

<' But as all improvement ceafes to 
he fuch wl en more money is fpent in 
it than the adv.-ntages will repay, I 
Ihall in a few words difplay how far 
this is from being the cafe here. 1 
will fuppofe two cr three fields are im- 
proved, amounting in the whole to 
twenty acres, 

1. s. d. 
** Sixty loads of clay per 
acre thrown out cf the 
ditches, tv^-elve hundred 
loads, at two-pence half- 
penny per load — 12 o o 
*' I will fuppofe fixty rod of 
new ditching dene, which, 
before clay is thrown out 
by the load, will coil one 

(hilling per rod 300 

" Three thoufand quickfets 

at fix-pence per hundred 0150 
*' Land-draining feven bun- 
dled rods with bunies(this 
is the quantity I have now 
marked out m a field of 
twenty acres) at ten-pence 
per rod 29 3 4 

f N. R. I had a great part of 
my laft crop of barley kil- 
led in this field with the 
wet : I had therefore a fine 
oppotiuniiy of marking 



exa611y where the drains 
fhculd be made, which 
ought, on fuch occalions, 
never to be omitted, weie 
it only for the common 
water-furrows which are 
made for every ciop. In 
fome fields, unlefs fuch a 
guide offers, it is very dif- 
ficult to tell exaiHiy where 
to make the land-drains. 

" 'J utning and mixing one 
tlicufmri l)x hundred loads 
cf manure — — — 6 S a 

'' Filling and fpreading one 
thoufand fix hundred lonoe, 
at two fmliin^s ard fix- 
j)tnce per fcore — — 10 o o 

'' i will fuppofe thit the work 
may be di nc the fooner if 
the farmer brings one hun- 
dred loads of the four 

• hundred of dunj;fionri the 
iScareft town ; and as I 
have not reckoned the 
hoifes and driver for the y^ 
clay c^rt, I (hall not in 
the bringing the dung: 
therefore the expences per 
waggon load will be, tiie 
coft three (hillings, boy 
(ix-pence, and turnpike 
fix- pence. A waggon load 
is two tunibrtl loads (in 
this country) fo fifty loads, 
at four (hillings, aie — 10 o o 



Total 71 6 4 



" This is three pounds eleven (hil- 
lings and three-pence per acre: and 
fuppofing the profit to lafl but twenty 
years, al; hough the draining and ditch- 
ing part will lait twice that time, and 
the clay five and twenty as good ns at 
firrt; and the farmers hereabouts fel- 
dom change their farms, if tolerable 
ones, living in tiicrn their lives, and 
their fons alter them, with leafes of 
17, 21, and 25 years; fuppofing twenty 
years profit. I fsy, the exj ences v^ill 
then be, per acre, per annum, three 
(liillings and fix-pence laifpenry. 

" So fmail is the expence divided. 
But now let us ccnfider the profit. 

" Such land as 1 have dtfcrihed 
never lets here for more than ten (hil- 
lings per acre, by far oftener for eight 
(hillings, or eight and fix. pence; and 
il is from my own experience, as well 

as 



PAS 



PEA 



as various obfervations, thnt I a^Tert 
tlie fame land, after the improvement*, 
Mv'i'.l let to any tenant for fcvcntern, 
eighteen, and twenty fhillins;s per acre. 
*' I will fuppofc it only fixtcen fhil- 
lings, thoujrli I am certain that is con- 
fidcrably under the mark : he then 
gains, in point cf rent, fix Hiillings 
per acre ; and the whole calculation is 
abfurd, if we do not add his vviiole 
proportionable profit on tiie acre : fup- 
pofing liis profit on it before improve- 
ment was a rent, ten fhiliings; after- 
ward<, it will undoubtedly be the fame 
at Icall j which adds fix Oiillings more 
to the [jrofit ; fo tliat the whole will 
be twelve fhiilings per acre pcrannum, 
i>r ei^ht JhilTngs and fix-penc« clear, 
after the improvement is paid. 

Twelve fliiliings per acre is per 
annum, for tv.'enty years — 240 
" Expences of improvement - 71 



" Clear profit 



169 



" Or elglit pounds nine fhillings per 
annum. And if we reckon five per 
cent, interelt for the feventy one pounds, 
that is, three pounds eleven fhillings 
per annum, which, dedudted from 
eight pounds nine fhillings, leaves four 
pounds eigliteen (hillings per annum 
^bfolote profit. 

" Thus, I think, I have ftated tiie 
cafe of this improvement clearly ; and 
1 mull repeat it, that I fpeak from ex- 
perience. The fum to be expended on 
twenty acies will appear large to moft 
farmers, whofe pioperty is not ccnfi- 
dcrahle; but the proportion holds for 
a fingle acre; and thole who cannot af- 
ford to improve twenty, may three, 
four, or five; and 1 make no doubt 
but fuch as attempt it will find their 
account in it greater tlian I have 
Itatcd it. 

" As I hav« mentioned a tumbrel- 
load to be thirty bufhch, and a wag- 
((00 load to be but two tumbrth, I 
ftiould obfcrve that we carry av^ay of 
muck fifty bulhels at a time in our 
tumbrels, ar.d fo agree with our men 
in proportion to the thirty bulhel loads. 

'' I have obferved, that in making 
new ditch, s, or enlarging old ones, I 
never pay by the roJ, Dut by the load ; 
liowcver, to thofe who chufe the 
former way, I would recommend that 
thty iiave them Vi^orked by a frame of 

Vol. II. 



fmall flit dea', nailed into the eyzf}. 
fize of the intended ditch, and agree 
witii the workmen to do their work by 
it : This will prevent difputes which 
fiequently arife." 

I'ATIENCE. I A f^cies of tliC 
dock. Monk's Rhubarb. 

PEA, [Fifum.] The fpecies are 
I. The greater garden pea ; 2. the 
dwarf pea ; 3. the rofe or crown pea ; 
4. thefea pea ; 5. Cape-horn pea ; 6- 
the winged pea. 

There is a great variety of garden 
peafe now cultivated in England, 
w.'iich are diftinguifhed by the garden- 
ers and feedfmen, and have their dif- 
ferent titles ; but as great part of thefc 
have been fcminal variations, fo if they . 
are not very carefully managed, by 
taking away all thcfe plants' whicK 
have a tendency to alter before the 
feeds are former), they will degenerate 
into their original Itate; therefore all 
thofe perfons who are curious in the 
choice of their feeds, look carefully 
over thofe which they defign for feeds 
at the time when they begin to flower, 
and draw out all the plants which they 
diflike from the other. This is what: 
they call roguing their peas, meaning 
hereby, the takingout all the bad plants 
from the good, that the farina of the 
former may not impregnate the latter ; 
to prevent which, they always do ic 
before the flowers open ; by thus di- 
iitcently drawing out the bad,referving 
tliofc which come earliefl: to flower, 
they have greatly improved their peafe 
of late years, and are conftantly en- 
deavouring to get forwarder varieties ; 
fo that it would be to little purpofe in 
this place, to attempt giving a parti» 
cuiar account of all the varieties now 
cultivated ; therefore we fliall only 
mention tlieir titles, by which they are 
commonly known, placing them ac- 
cording to their time of coming to the 
table, or gathering for ufe. 

The Gclden Hotfpur. 

The Charlton. . (/i!>^// / 

The Reading Hotfpur. ' 

Maftcrs's Hotfpur. 

Eirex Hotfpur. 

The Dwarf Pea. 

The Sugai Fea. 

Spanifh Morctco. 

Nonpareil. 

Sui?ir Dwarf. 

Sickle Pta. 

Marrowfat, 

T Kofe, 



PEA 



PEA 



Rofe, or Crown Pea. 
Rouncival Pea. 
Grey Pea. 

Pig Pea, with fome others. 
The Sea pea is tound wild upon the 
(bore in SufTex, and fevcral other 
counties in Eni^land, and is undoubt- 
edly a different ipecies from the com- 
mon pea. 

The fifth fort hath a hiennial root, 
which continues two years. This 
was brought from Cape Horn by Lord 
Anfon's cook, when he pafTed that 
Cape, where the peafe was a great re- 
lief to the failors. It is kept here as a 
Ciiriofity, but the peafe are not fogood 
for eating as the worrt fort now culti- 
vated in England ; ii is a low trailing 
plant i the leaver have two lobes on 
each foot-ftalk ; thofe below are fpear- 
ftiaped, and fharply indented on their 
edgcb, but the upper leaves are fmall 
and arrow pointed. The flowers are 
blue, each foot-ftalk fuftaiiiing four 
or five flowers ; the pods are taper, 
near three inches long, and the feeds 
are round, about the fize of tares. 

The fixth fort is annual. This grows 
naturally among the corn in Sicily, and 
fome parts of Italy, but is here pre- 
ferved in botanic gardens for the fake 
of variety. It hath an angular llalk 
fifing near three feet high ; the leaves 
ftand upon winged foot-ftalks, each 
fi:rtaining two oblong lobes. The 
flowers are of a pale yellow colour, 
fhaped like thofe of the other forts of 
pea, but are fmall, each foot-ltalk fnf- 
taining one flower; thefeare fucceeded 
by pods about two inches long, con- 
taining five or fix roundifti feeds, which 
«re a little comprefled on their fides. 
Thefe are by fome perfons eaten green, 
but unlefs they are gathered very young 
ihey are coarfe, and at beft not fo good 
as the common pea. It may be fown 
and managed in the fame way as the 
garden pea. 

We fhall row proceed to fet down 
the method of cultivating the feveral 
forts of garden peafe, fo as to continue 
them throughout the feafon. 

It is a common practice with the 
garde ners near London, to raife peafe 
upon hot-beds, to have them very early 
in the fpring; in order to which they 
fow theirpeafeuponwarm borders, un- 
der wails or hedges, about the middle 
of 0(flober; and when the plants 
come up, they draw tht earth up gently 



to their flems with a hoe, the better fe 
proteft them from frolt. In tl'.efe 
places they let them remain until the 
latttrr end of January, or the beginninjc 
of February, obferving to earth them 
up from imie to time as the plant!) ad- 
vance in height (tor the reafon hefort 
given ;; as alfo to cover them in very 
hard froll with psafe-haulm, ftraw, 
or fome other light covering, to pre- 
ferve them from being deltroyedj then, 
at the time before-mentioned, they 
make a hoi-bed (in pioportion to the 
quantity of peafe iniendcd) which muft 
be made of good hot dun^, well pre- 
pared and properly mixed together, 
that the heat may not be too great. 
The ung fhould be laid from two to 
three feet thick, according as the beds 
are made earlier or later in the feafon ; 
when the dung is equally levelled, ihen 
the earth (which Ihould be lig!u and 
frefh, bat not over rich) muft be laid 
thereon about fix or eight inches thick, 
hying it equally all over the bed. This 
being done, the frames (which fhould 
be two feet liigh on the back fide, and 
about fourteen inches in front) muft 
be put on, and covered with glafTes ; 
alter which It fhould remain three or 
four days, to let the fteam of the bed 
pafs off, before you ;.ut the plants 
therein, obferving every day to raife 
the glafles, to give vent for the rifing 
Aeam to pafs off; then, when you find 
the bed of a moderate temperature for 
heat, you fhould, with a trowel or fome 
other inftiument, take up the plants 
as carefully as poiTible, to preferve the 
earth to their roots, and plant them 
into the hot- beds in rows, about two 
feet afunder, and tlie plants about an 
inch diftant from each other in the 
rows, obferving to water and fhade 
them until they have taken root ; after 
which you muft be careful to give 
them air at ail times when the feafon 
is favourable, otherwife they will 
draw lip v'.ry weak, and be fubjeft to 
gri w mouldy and decay. You iliould 
alfo draw the earth up to the ftianks 
of t he plants as they advance in height, 
and keep them always clear from 
weeds. The water they fhould have 
muft be given them fparingly, for if 
they are too much watered, it will 
caufe them to grew too rank, and 
fometimes rot off the plants at their 
fhanks.iuft above ground. Wlien the 
weather is very hot,you fhould covtr the 
glaffes 



PEA 



PEA 



gUffiJ with mats In the beitofthcday, 
to fc reen them from the violence of the 
fun, which is then too great for them : 
but when the plants bet;in to fruit, 
they IhouM be watered oftner, and in 
greater pkr.ty tiun before j tor by that 
time t!ie plants will have nearly done 
j:rowiii5,and the often refrtfhing them 
will occ.incn their producing a gi eater 
plenty of fruit. 

The fort of j^ea which is generally 
ufed for this purpofc, is the dwarf, 
for al! the other forts ramble too much 
to be kept in ti ames. The reafon for 
fowing them in the common ground, 
and altcrwards tranfplanting tliem on 
a hot- bed, is to check their growth, 
and caufe them to bear in lefs com- 
pafs; for if the feeds were fown upon 
a hot-bed, and the plants continued 
thereon, they would produce fuch lux- 
uriant plants as are not to be contained 
in the frames, and would bear but lit- 
tle fruit. 

The next fort of pea, which is fown 
to fucceed tliofe on the hot-bed, is the 
hotfpur, of which there are reckoned 
feveral varieties} as the Golden hot- 
fpur, the Charlton hotfpur, the Maf- 
ters's hotfpur, the Reading hotfpur, 
and fome others; which arc very lit- 
tle differing from each other, except 
in their early bearing, for which 
the Golden and Charlton hotfpurs are 
chiefly preferred j though if either of 
thefe forts are cultivated in the fame 
place for three or four years, they arc 
apt to degenerate, and be later in fruit- 
ing ; for which reafon, moft curious 
perfons prccuie their feeds annually 
from fome diftant place; and in the 
choice of thefe feeds, if they could be 
obtained from a colder fituation and a 
poorer foil, than that in which they 
are to be fown, it will be much better 
than on the contrary, and they will 
come earlier in the fpring. 

Thefe mult alfo be fown on warm 
borders, toward the latter end of Octo- 
ber ; and when the plants are come up, 
yo'j [hould draw the earth up to their 
fhanks in the manner before dire£ted, 
wliich fliouM he repeated as the plants 
advance in height (always obferving to 
do it when the ground is dry) which 
will reatly proteft the ftems of the 
plants aeain(t froit ; and if the winter 
fhould prove very fevere, it well be of 
great fcivice to the plants to cover 
:hem with peafe-haulm, or fome olher 



light covering, which fliould be con» 
ftantly taken off in mild weather, and 
only fuffered to remain on during the 
continuance of the frolt ; for if they 
are kept too clofe, they will draw up 
very weak and tender, and thereby b* 
liable to be deflroyed wiih the leall in- 
clemency of the fcafon. 

In the fpring, you muft carefully 
clear them from weeds, and draw fome 
frelh earth up to their Hems, but do 
not raifc it too high to the plants, left 
by burying their leaves you fhould rot 
their Items, as is fometimes the cafe, 
efpecially in wet leafons. You fhould 
alfo obferve to keep them clean from 
vermin, which, if permitted to remain 
amongft the plants, will increafe fo 
plentitully, as to devour the greateft 
part of them. The chief of the ver- 
min which infeft peafe, are the flugs, 
which lie all the day in the fmall hol- 
lows of the earth, near the ftems of 
the plants, and in the night-time come 
out, and make terrible deftrudion of 
the peafe ; and thefe chiefly abound in 
wet foils, or where a garden is neg- 
le£led,and over-run with weeds ; there- 
fore you (hould make the ground clear 
every way round the peafe to deftroy 
their harbours; and afterwards, in a 
fine mild morning very early, when 
thefe vermin are got abroad from their 
holes, you (hould (lack a quantity of 
lime, which (hould be ftrewn hot over 
the ground pretty thick, which will 
deftroy the vermin wherever it happens 
to fall upon them, but will do very lit- 
tle injury to the peafe, provided it be 
not fcattered too thick upon them. 
This is the beft method I could ever 
find to deftroy thefe troublefome 
vermin. 

If this crop of peafe fucceeds, it will 
immediately follow thofe on the hot- 
bed ; but for fear this ihou^d mifcarr)-, 
it will be proper to fow two more 
crops at about a fortnight or three 
weeks diftance from each other, fo 
that there may be the more chances to 
fuccced. This will he fufficient until 
the fpring of the year, when you may 
fow fevcral more crops of thefe peafe 
at * fortnight diftance from each other 
The late fowings will be fufticient to 
continue the early fi rt of peafe through 
the f.afon, but it will be proper to have 
fome of the large fort of pe^fe to fuci» 
ceed them for die ufe of the family 
in order to which, jovi Ihcu 1 d fow 

T 2, fonae 



PEA 



PEA 



fomc of the Spanifh Morotto, wlilch 
iS a great bearer, and a hardy fort of 
pea, alioiit the middle of February, 
■upon a clear open fpot of ground. 
Thefe mull be fown in rows about 
four feet afunder, and the peafe fhculd 
be dropped in tlie drills about an inch 
diltance, covering them ahout two 
inchci deep with earth, being very 
carefulthat none of them lie uncovered, 
which will draw tiie mice, pigeons, 
cr rooks, to attack the whole fpot ; and 
it often happens, by this neghft, that 
awhole plantation is devoured by thefe 
creatures; whereas, when there are 
none of the peafe Lft in f)j;ht, they do 
rot To eafily tind them out. 

About a fortnight alter this you 
fhould fow another fpot, either of this 
fort, or any other large fort of Pea, to 
fucceed thofe, and then continue to 
repeat fowing once a fortnigi'.t, till the 
middle or latter end ot May, only ob- 
ferving to allow the Alarrcufats, and 
othrr very large forts of peafc, at leafl 
four feet and a half between low and 
TOW 5 and the rofe pen fnould be al- 
lowed at lealt eight or ten inches dif- 
tance, plant from plant in the rows ; 
for thefe grow very large, and if they 
liave not room allowed them, they 
will fpoil each other by drawing them 
up very tall, and will produce no fruit. 
When thefe plants come up, the 
earth fliould be drawn up to their 
ihanks (as was before <!iredied,) and 
the ground kept entirely clear from 
weeds ; and when the plants are grown 
eight or ten inches high, you fViould 
Hick fome brufli-wood into the ground 
clofe to the peafe for them to ramp 
upon, which will fupport them from 
trailing upon the ground, which is 
very apt to rot the large growing forts 
of pcale, efpecially in wet feafons j be- 
fides, by thus fupporting them, the 
air can freely pafs between them, which 
■will prefcrve the hlofibins from falling 
ofFbefore their time, and occafion them 
to bear much better, than if pern.itted 
to lie upon the ground, and there will 
he room to pafs between the rows to 
gather the peafc; when they are ripe. 

The Dwarf forts cf peafe may be 
fown much clofer than thofe before- 
mentioned, fcr thefe feldom rife above 
a foot high, and rarely fpread above 
half a foot in widili, fo that thefe need 
not have more room than tv.o feet 
low from row, and not above an inch 



afunder In the rows, Thefe will pra» ' 
duce a good qvianuty of |.>eafc, pro- 
vided the feafon be not over-dry ; but 
they feldom continue long in bearing, fo 
that they aie not fo proper to fow for 
the main cfop, when a quantity of 
jjeafe is ex|)ei5ied for the table, their 
chief excellency being for hol-bcds, 
where they will produce a greater 
quantity of peafe (provided they are 
well managed) than if expof.d to the 
open air, where the heat of the fun 
foon dries them up. 

The Sickle pea is much mere com- 
mon in Holiard than in r.ni;land, it 
being the furl moftly cultivated in that 
country ;, but in England they aie only 
propagated by curious gentlemen for 
their own table, and are rarely brought 
into the markets. This fort the birds 
are very fond of, and if they are not 
prevented, many times deflroy the 
whole crop. This fhould be planted 
in rows about two feet ard a half 
afunder, and be managed as hath been 
dirciSed fdr the other forts. 

Although we have direfled the fowing 
of the large forts of peafe for the great 
crop, yet thefe are not fo fweet as the 
early hotfpur peafe; therefore it will 
alfo be proper to continue a fucceffion 
of thofe forts thro^-gh the feafon, in 
fiiiall quantities, to fupply the beft 
table, which may be done by fowing 
every fortnight; birt all thefe which 
are (own late in the (cafon fhould have 
a flrong moiit foil, for in hot light 
land they will burn up, and come to 
nothing. 

The large growing forts may be cul- 
tivated for the common ufe of the fa- 
mily, becaufe they will produce in 
greater quantifies than the other, and 
will endure the drought better, but 
the early kinds are by far the fweeter 
tafled peafe. 

The bert of all the large kinds is the 
Marrowfats, which, if gathered young, 
is a well-taded pea ; and this will con- 
tinue good through the month of Au- 
gufi, if planted on a ftiong foil. 

The Grey and other large Winter 
peafe are feldom cultivated in gardens, 
becaufe they rcq-jire a great deal cf 
room, but are ufually fown in fields in 
moft parts of England. The beft time 
for fowing of thefe Is about the begin- 
ning of March, when the weather is 
pretty dry, for if they are put into the 
ground in a very wet feafon, they are 

apc 



PEA 



PEA 



apt to rot, efpecially if the ground be 
v;old ; thefc (hould be allowed at leaft 
three feet dirtance row from row, and 
muft be fown very thin in the rows ; 
lor if they arc fown too thick, the 
haulm will fpread fo as to fill the 
•round, and ramble over each other, 
. hich will caufe the plants to rot, and 
[;revtnt their bearing. 

The common white pea will do befl 
en light fandy land, or on a rich loofe 
loil. The tiiual method of fowing 
thefe peafe is with a btoad-caft, and fo 
harrow them in : but it is a much bet- 
ter way to fow them in drills about 
three feet afunder, lor half the quan- 
ity of feed will do for an a^re, and 
'^einj; fct regularly, the ground may be 
ilirrtd witha hoe to deltrcy the wcids, 
and earth up tlie pe.ife, which will 
greatly improve them, & the peafe may 
he much eaiier cut in autunm when 
they are ripe. The ufual time for fow- 
ing of thefe peafe is about the middle 
cr latter end of March, on warm land, 
hut on ccld j^rcund, they fhouid be 
fown a fortnight or three weeks later. 
In the common way of fowing, they 
allow t!uee bufheh or more to an acre, 
but if they are drilled, one bu/htlwill 
be full erough. 

The green and maple Rouncivals re- 
■quire a ftronger foil than the wliite, 
;*nd ftiould be fown early in tiiefpring j 
aifo the drills fhouid be made at a 
greater diftance from each other, for as 
thefe are apt to grow rank, efpecially 
in a wet feafon, they fl-iould be fet in 
rows three feet and a half, or four feet 
afunder; and the ground between the 
rows fhouid be ftirred two or three 
rimes with a hoe, which will not only 
deftroy the weeds, but, by earthing up 
the peafe, greatly inriprove them, and 
ilfo render the ground better to receiv* 
whatever crop is put on it the follow- 
ing feafon. 

The grey peafe thrive beft on a 
f'.rong clayey land ; thefe are commonly 
r&wn ij^nder furrow, but by this me- 
thod they are all always too thick, and 
<lo not come up regular; therelore all 
thefe rank-growing plants (hould be 
f<''wn in drills, wliere the feeds will 
be more equally fcattered, and lodged 
at the fame depth in the ground ; 
whereas in the common way, fome 
cf the feeds lie twice as deep as others, 
and are not fcaticred at equal diltances. 
T.hefe may be fown toward the end of 



February, as they are much hartJ'sr 
than either of the former foi t-, but 
the culture cf thefe fhouid be the fame. 
The beft mi thod to fow thtfc peafe 
is to draw a drill with a hoe by a line 
about two inches detp, and then fcat- 
ter the feeds therein ; after which, 
with a Take, you may draw the earth 
over them, whereby they will be 
equally covered : this i» a very quick 
metliod for gar'lens, but where they 
are fown in fields, they cr'mmoniy 
make a fhallo'v furrow with the 
plough, and fcatter the feeds therein, 
and then with a harrow they cover 
them over .^gain. After this, the gieat 
trouble is to keep them clear from 
weeds, and draw the earth up to the 
plants; this, in fuch countries where 
labour is dear, is a great e,\'perce to 
do it by the hnnd with a hoe ; but this 
may he eafily effeiSed with a fmall 
plough, which may be draw n through 
between the rows, which will entirely 
eradicate the weeds, and by ftirring 
the foil, render it mellow, and greatly 
promote the growth cf the plants. 

When any of thefe forts are intended 
for feed, there fhouid be as many rows 
of them left ungathered, as may be 
thought necefiary to furni.'h a fuffici- 
er.t quantity of feed j arct when the 
peafe aic in flower, they (hould be 
carefully looked over tocnawcut all 
thofe plants which are not cf the right 
fort, for there will always be fome 
roguilh plants (as the gardeners turn ievitl 
them) in every fort, which, if le?t to " 
mix, will degenerate the kind. Thefe 
muft remain until theirpodsarechanged 
brown,, and begin to fpiit, when you 
fhouid immediately gather tliem up. 
Together with the haulm ; and if you 
have not room to fiack them till win- 
ter, you may threfh them out as foon 
as they are dry, and put ihem up in 
facks for ufe ; but you muft be very 
careful not to let them ren.ain too long 
abroad alter they are ripe, for if wet 
fhouid happen, rt would rot them, and 
hear, after a fhower of rain, would 
caufe their pods to burft, and cad foith 
their feeds, fo that the greateft part of 
them would be loft; but it is not 
advifeabie to continue fowing the 
fame feed longer than two years, but 
rather to exchange their feeds every 
year, or every two years at feaft, 
whereby you may always expe<5l to 
have them prove right. 

PEACH-TREE, 



PEA 



PEA 



PEACH-TREE, [Malut Per/!ea.'] 
The varitties of (car he arc very g'cat, 
and b) continuing; to laife ihem from 
tlic fc>d or ktrnel, they may be mul- 
tiplied indefinitely. It is to be ob- 
I'trved, howcvci, that notwith(tand- 
ing the number of varieties that rnay 
be chraincd :hat way, it is probable 
not one in tvinty is pofl"-nid of t!ie 
prop<;r qualitKS, ai is obvious by the 
cultivated foiti now known in Eng- 
land i lor mo. I of tlie emi^ient nur- 
fery-men retain no more than from 
twenty to thirty forts in their cata- 
logues, which they fell as rejl good 
peaches. Some indeed extend ihemio 
40 or 50 i but amonR thefc there are 
many of very indiiFerent qualities, 
and nor woith the fpace they occupy ; 
and fmce it i ■ not more expencs to 
cultivate the belt ih.i;i the more indif- 
ferent ones, the firft only deferve our 
regard ; and as all the forts require to 
be trained againftvvills, theexpenceof 
building them isve^y confiderable, and 
a good alpe£ted wall is too valuable to 
be filled with any but the capital forts. 

Thefe fruit are divided into two claf- 
fcs, viz. peaches and pavies ; tin. former 
arc dillinguilhal le by the flefh or pulp 
readily quitting the (lone, that of the 
latter firmly adheres tiiereto. 

Botaiiilts allowonly onediilinftfpe- 
cles of peacli-fees ; all the diffeient 
Ibrts of fruit being varieties of one 
another, fo that the trees of all the va- 
rieties bear the particular maiks of the 
•rjginai fpccies. Varieties are, 

I. The early white nutmeg peach 5 a 
very fmall oblong whitifh fiult, ripe 
In July. 2. Early red nutmegj a fmall, 
roundifh, bright red fiuit, ripe the end 
of July. 3. Anne peach ; a fmall, round, 
& yellowifh, white fruit, early in .Aug, 
5. Small mignon peach; a fmall, and 
roun.l fruit, red towards t!ic fun, ripe 
the middle of Augufl. 5. Great mig- 
non peach; lar9;e, round, fwclling on 
one fide, and beautifully fpotted with 
red to the fun; middle of Auguft. 6. 
Early purple peach; lagsand round; 
middle of Augurt. 7. Late purple; lioe 
the middle of September. 8. White 
magdalen peach; round, middle-fized, 
whitifh, and deeply fui rowed on one 
fide; early in Augufl. 9, Red magda- 
len ; a bejutiful large, round, red fruit} 
end of AiigiWt. 10. Early Newington 
peach ; roundifh, middle-fized, and red 
to the funj in Auguft. M. Old Jate 



Newington peach ; middle of Septem- 
ber. 12. Montauban peach ; middle- 
fizcd, roundi^, pur|.>Ie, and cleft on 
one fide; end of Augufl. 13. Belle 
chevreulc peach; miadle-fized, oblong 
red; end of Augiift. 14. NoblefTe; 
Ijrge, roundifh, marbled with a pur- 
plifhied; beptemher. 15. VcllowAl- 
berge peach; midvilc-fized, longifh, 
yellow fitflicd fruit; middle of Au- 
gult. 16. Bt-lle-garde peach ; roundifh, 
and almofl wholly of a deep purple 
colour ; beginning of September. 17. 
Ch mcellor peach ; a large, fomewhat 
ol lo'ig, bright red fruit; September. 
18. La Teton de Venus, or bieafl of 
V(.nus peach i a pretty large, fome- 
what longifh fruit, deeply divided on 
one fide, both divillor.s fwclling and 
rounded like a woman's breaft, and of 
a pale red coloui on the funny fide; the 
end of September. 19.R0fr.1na peach; 
a middle-fized, fomewhat oval fruit, 
purple next (he fun ; early in Septem- 
ber. 2C. Perfique peach ; a fine large, 
roundifh, and fomewhat oblong fruit, 
terminated at top by a fmall nipple, 
having the funny fide red, the other 
pale green ; early in Odlober. 21. Ad- 
mirable peach; a very large, round 
fruit, beautifully adorned with red 
next the fun ; middle of September, 
2z. Ramboiiillet peach ; a large, long- 
ifh, deeply-furrowed fruit, the funny 
fide beautifully reddened, the other 
yellow ; towards the end of September, 
23. La koyaie, or royal peach ; a large, 
round, almott wholly red fruit, but 
deeply reddened next the fun; end of 
September, 24. Bourdine peach; a 
large, round, very fine fruit, bright 
red on the funny fide; ripe beginning 
or middle of September. 25. Bloody 
peach; a middle lized, deep red fruit 
next the fun, and its whole pulp of a 
blood red colour; late in Oif^ober. 26. 
Nivette peach ; a very fine, large, 
longifh, deep purple fruit next the fun ; 
middle of September, 27. Portugal 
peach ; a large, round, even peach, 
generally fpotted, and the funny fide 
elegantly red ; end of September. 28. 
Royal George peach; a middle-fized, 
round peach, furrowed on one fide, of 
a deep red nex' the fun, the other part 
white, fpotted with red ; early in Sep- 
tember. 29. Violet peach ; a middle- 
fized, roundifn, oval, violet-coloured 
peach ; the middle of September. 30. 
Catharine peach; a btautifu!, very 
large. 



PEA 



PEA 



large, round peach, the funny fide 
wholly ot a fine bright red, the other 
iide white J ripens in Oftober. 31, 
Monrtrous pavic ot I'omponne; an 
amazingly large and bcautitui peach, 
the fhape round, and often meaTures 
twelve 01 foo I cecn inches in circumfe- 
rence; the fide next the I'un dcepi) red, 
ar.d the other a pale fleih colour ; the 
end 01 Odtober. 32. Cambray ptnch; 
middle fized, ion:<ifli, pile-coloured ; 
in October. 33. bion peach; a large, 
handtbme, round peach, reddifh on the 
funny fide, the other fide whitifti; ripe 
end of September. 34. N:irbonne 
peach ; a very large peach, of a gretn- 
ifh colour j ripe in Odober. 

The above thirty-lour varieties cf 
peaches are the principal forts of tliat 
univeifally admired fruit, known in 
Great- Britain ; and the name here 
annexed to each variety is that by 
which they are generally known to all 
the nurfery-men, who cultivate the 
trees for fale, to fupply noblemen and 
gentlemen's gardens. 

Many of the above varieties ap- 
proach fo near to one another in fize, 
fhape, and colour, that it isfometimes 
difficult to determine their difference 
without the flrifteft attention. 

We do not jiretend to recommend all 
thefe varieties as real good peaches, 
but for the fake of thofe who have 
large extent of walling, have cclledVed 
all the principal forts to view, with 
fliort dtfcripti .na of tlieir fizes, (hapes, 
colours, and times of ripening, which 
it is prefunied will convey feme idea 
of the refpedive varieties to the unex- 
perienced, and help to direft him in 
the choice cf the forts. 

The forts that have the greatefl 
claim to eileem, as ihe beft and mofl 
beautiful, both in regard to lize, fhap;:, 
colour, flavour, and the btit bearers, 
are the follov/inj: 

The Anne peach, fmall mignon, 
great mignon, red Magdalen, bdle 
garde, belle chevruefe, mountauban, 
admirable, eaily Newington, late 
Newjngton, bcurdine, nivette, la 
royale, purple, tcton de Venus, Ca- 
tharine, and great pavie of I'omponne ; 
the latter chiefly for its prodigious fize 
and beauty, and, as a pickle, it fur- 
pafFes all the other forts. 

The two nutmeg peaches, though 
of faiall nzeani indifferent flavour, 
cfpecially the white for t,on atccuat 



of their early pcrfeftion, fhould alf* 
be allowed a place in the colled ion. 

The bloody peach merits a place 
more forfingulariiy, than for the qua- 
lity of the fruit. 

The two Newington peaches, Portu- 
gal, Catharine, and monftrous pavie, 
may be deemed of the pavie tribe, their 
flelh adhering clofeiy to the (tone. 
The old Newington and Catiianne are 
elleemed two of the moll valuable 
peaches that are cultivated in EngUnd. 

Peach trees in general will grow^ 
15 or 20 feet high, it they have lull 
fcope;andif trained for l\aii'Jards,and 
permitted to take their natural growth, 
they form regular heads, l.ut they 
do not ripen their fruit well on ftand- 
ards in this country,they bting natives 
of a mjch warmer climate; fo that, 
to effcdt the ripening of their fruit per- 
fe(fVly, they require the fhtlter ot a 
warm wall, to which their branches 
fhould be regularly trained. 

'I'he trees in general flower early in 
fpring ; the flowers come out before 
the leaves, appearing chiefly on the 
fhoots laft year, arifing fome fmgly, 
others in pairs, all along the fides of 
the fhoot,to which they fit clofe; they 
are formed each of five fmall petals, 
and many (tamina in the middle, with 
a fmall round gcrmen, which becomes 
the peach. 

The general propagation of peach- 
trees is effected by budding them upon 
plum-ftoi-ks. 

Cut all the fine varieties of thefe 
fruit were originally obtained from the 
feed or kernel, and more new varieties 
may be gained by that means ; but the 
procefj is fomev.hat tedious, and often 
terminates in but trifling fuccefs, ia 
rei"pe<a to the quality of the fruit fo ob- 
tained ; for if you plant the flones of 
the fineft fcrts, it is a thoufand to one, 
if, out of a great number, you obtain 
one like the originals, and but few 
that have any teal merit, fo greatly do 
thefe, and indeed all other fiuits, vary 
from the feed. However, for the fake 
of experiment, there are many who 
have curiofity and patiepce enough to 
undertake the acquifition of new vr.- 
rietics by the above methods, and think 
thenifelves amply rewarded if they 
gain one or two niw forts that pcflefs 
good qualities in refptd to fizc, loim, 
colo I, and flavour. 

1 M nierhcd of pbnting the ftones 
for 



PEA 



PEA 



for that purpofe, is, they fliould be 
planted in autumn, in diills al>ouC 
two or tlirce incites deep, and ii\ fpring 
following tlity will come up, and after 
having one lummti's growth, they 
Ihould, in autumn orfprinj; tollowing, 
be tranfplanted in row» in theiiurfery, 
and in a year or two after may be 
planted againft any fparc wall, pales, 
or reed fence, and trained as other 
peach-trees ; and when they have 
Ihown fruit, thofe of merit fhoi-ld be 
planted where they are to remain, 
which you may propagate or cncreafe 
by budding, as hereafter o'irefted. 

The only method of propagation, 
however, to continue, with certainty, 
the approved or any acquired forts of 
peaches, is by budaing, i. e. inocula- 
tion j fince, by inoculating the bud of 
a tree of any of the kinds, in the (lem 
or Itcck of any fuit of peacli, almond, 
or plumb, the bud unites with the 
faid ftock, the head of which being cut 
cff, the bud Ihoots forth, branches 
out, and becomes a peach-tree, which 
will produce fruit in fize, fhape, co- 
lour, and flavour, exaflly the fame as 
that of the parent tree from whence 
the bud was taken, and by whichmeans 
you may multiply any of the forts of 
peaches, and other fruit trees at plea- 
fure, and with certainty j and btfides, 
•rces thus raifed, much fooner attain 
a bciiring llate than thofc from the 
kernels. 

Peaches, as above hinted, may be 
budded upon three or four different 
llocks, viz. upon thofe raifed from 
their own kernels, upon the almond, 
apticot, and plumb. 

There is however but one fort of 
flock proper for general ufe whereon 
to bud peacJies, wl'.ich is that of the 
p'umb ; the peach, the almond, and 
apricot llocks, are often attacked by 
the gum, and communicate it to the 
trees jiut as they arrive at a ftateof full 
bearine, and auickly go cff ; whereas, 
the plumb flock bein^ in every rcfptct 
liardier, and better fuited to difl'cren: 
foils, peaches budded ujion tlum are 
jcentrally healthful, and of long dura- 
tion ; obferving, however, that expe- 
rience has proved them to be the molt 
profperous and durable on one parti- 
cular fort, which is that of the true 
niufde plumb. 

The propagation or rr.ifmg ftocks 
fr m Uss varieuss cf p lu.nbi ind.jlc- 



rently, as alfo of peaches, almond;, and 
apricots, may with great eafe be ef- 
fcfled by fowing the Hones of the 
fruit in autumn, in drills two inches 
deep, and they wiil rife freely the fprini; 
ft'll'v.ing; and in O^ober they may 
be iranfplanted in rows two feet and 
lialf diltant, and in the two follow- 
ing fummcrs, thofe that are intended 
to form dwarfs, may be inoculated 
with peach buds. 

But in rtfpe£l to the real mufcie- 
pUimb ftock, this cannot be obtained 
in its true rtate from the Itones, for 
they vary fo g.eatly when raifed from 
feed, that not one in a hundred will 
prove of that fort 5 therefore, tlie only 
method to obtain the true mufcfekind 
is either by layers in autumn, or by 
fuckers that are fcnt up from the roots 
cf peach or plumb trees, that arc 
known to be worked upon that fort 
<>f plumb. Thefe fhould be colledled 
in Oftober or November j chufe thofe 
that are about the fize of a large goofe- 
quill; cut off any knots of old wood 
that adhere to their roots, and trim off 
all fide-kranclies, and plan: them in 
lines two feet and half diflaat, and 
in the following funimer fome will be 
fit to bud for dwarfs. 

The proper fized flocks to bud upon 
to form dwarfs, fhould be about half 
an inch thick. 

But if intended to form half or full 
flandards, the flocks, before they are 
budded, mufl be permitted to form 
Aems an inch thick at bottom, and 
four, five, or fix feet in height. The 
fcafon for budding them is Augull, 
tho' fome perform that work in June 
and July ; but when budded too early, 
the buds are apt to flioot the fame year, 
whicli (hoots, being weakly, are ei- 
ther killed in winter, or, if they efcape 
the frod, tliey never make great pro- 
grefs; therefore, from about the 25th 
of July to the 25ih of Aug. is the pro- 
per period lor that operation, and the 
buds will remain dormant till fpring, 
when tliey will Ihoot forthwith vigour. 

The method of performing the ope- 
ration of budding, and every thing re- 
lating thereto for thofe and other tree«, 
is fully explained under that article. 
See Ir.ue.'aiit:^. 

We fhall therefore only obferve, that 
as Peach-trees require to be tiained 
ag:^.inft wallb, &c tiiey fliould be bud- 
ded principally to foim dwaifs, that 

their 



P L A 



PEA 



then branches may at firft come out 
low, fo as tliey u)ay hy clcgrtei be 
f^ained to occupy every part of the 
wall, from bottor.i to top; the ftockij 
ftiould therefore be budded within five 
or fix inchti of the bottom, but where 
there are hi>;h wills to furni(h, it is ne- 
ccUary alfo to raifc half-rtandards and 
Itand^rds, to occupy the upper part, 
while the dwarii are gradually advan- 
cing to cover the wiiole; the Hocks, 
to conlVuute fuch rtandards, fhould 
lor lialf-flandaid> be budded at tlie 
height of three or four ftet, and (tr 
full flandards at that of five or fix, or 
they may be budded near the ground, 
and the firf\ Ihoot from the bud trained 
to the above heights to form a ilem. 

Obferve to infert only one bud in 
each (lock, the heads of which are to 
remain on entire until fpring. 

In March following, t!ie heads of 
all the Itocki are to be cut cfFfloping, 
jult above wlicre the bud is inferted. 

Soon after this the buds will fhoot 
forth, each will produce one ftrong 
ertft flioot, which, by autumn, will 
probably attain three or four feet in 
height, and the trees have then ac- 
quired their firfl ftate of formation, 
wl-.ich, in October or November, 
fliould be tranfpldnted in the places 
where they are finally to rtn.aiii ; and 
in the fpring after that, they mult be 
headed down to a few eyes, to pro- 
cure laterals near tlie place of inocula- 
tion, to give the tree its fuitable form 
for the wall, and in two or thiee years 
they will bear fruit. 

With refpedt to fituation and expo- 
(\ire, the peach-tiee being originally a 
native of warm climates, is, in fome 
lefpedls, tender, and will notprofper, 
at iealt not bear well, in an open litu- 
ation ; fo that for the general part, rc- 
ijuire to be trained againfl walls. 

The trees thcmfelve? , though hardy 
enoueh in refpeft to cold, yet the blof- 
fom and younj fruit are extremely im- 
patient of froft '■: cutting winds, wh.ch 
generally reign in this country at early 
Ipring, when the trees bloom and fet 
their fruit : the trees, therefore, fliould 
be indulged with the Ihelrerofa warm 
wal, or oiher fubftantial clofe fence, 
to which they Ihould be planted ciof;.-, 
i.nd their I. ranches regularly trained, 
whi;ii is nectiF/iry, not only to defend 
ihw' bK;from and young fiuit the betur 
from tlie inclemencv of the wca;licr, 
'Vol. II. 



but alfo that they may have all the ad. 
vantages of the fun's influence, to ac- 
c:lerate its ripening, as well as to give 
it colour and flavour, which many 
forts, even with all the aid in our 
power to give, hardly cfFeft in unfa« 
vourable feaions in this country. 

The proper afpecfted \\ alls, or cxpo- 
fure for the fine forts, is that of a due 
fouthj fome may alfo be planted upon 
an eah afpedted wait, and in favoura- 
ble fcdfonb the trees will alfo fometimes 
fit and ripen fruit tolerably on a weft- 
ern afpeft. However, wheie there is 
walling enough, let the capital forts 
be always planted againft fuch walU 
a» ei^joy the greateft degiee of the 
fouth fun, as even that afpefl, in fome 
fcafons, is barely fu^cient to ripen 
fome of the late forts of thefe fruit, ia 
any part of this ifland. 

Such of the forward kinds that you 
defire as early as pofTible, fhould have . 
the wa'meft fituation on the btd foutli 
wall, which, though fome are inferior 
in fize and flavour, yet when obtained 
at the earlieft feafon, they are highly ac- 
ceptahls as a rarity in the defeit. 

With rcfpeft to foil, the peach-tree 
will profper in any common foil of a 
garden, wliere it is not lefs than fif- 
teen or eighteen inches depth of proper 
llaple, that is fuch as is proper for the 
cul'ure of common kitchen herbage, 
and where moHture is not very copi- 
ous 5 but if the depth of good foil in 
the truit-tree borders is two or three 
feet, it will be the greater advantage. 

The breadth of the border« againft 
the walls where it is intended to plane 
thefe trees, fhould never be lefs than 
three, but thofe of fix or eight fcct are 
the moft proper width. 

If the natural foil of the borders is 
of a moderately light, pliable nature, 
and of proper depth, it is a happy cir- 
cumfiance; and if it Is of a loamy 
temperature, it >'ill alfo be a particular 
advantage, provided however there is 
fuch dcj.t'i of proper flaple as above 
noticed, bcfo.'e you come st gravel, 
clay, or any other bad foil at bottom, 
when nothing mere than corr.mon dig- 
Eing is ncctlTaryj but v^here there is 
lefs than that depth, the borders mutt 
be raifcd with a due poition of good 
frclh earth and lotten dung, working 
the v.hcL well together. 

Where good rich or pliable loam 
CO'jId be tafj!;- obtained trom thcfur- 



PEA 

face of fome contif;uous pafture, com- 
mon, or other field, and with rtoreof 
rotten dung, working or blending the 
whole with the natural foil of the 
border to tlie proper depth, it would 
form a fine comport, and the trees 
wilt profper, and be of long continuance. 
But if the foil is naturally (lift' and 
clayey, or of any other f\ubborn or 
very moid nature, it may be mellowed 
by adding dry fubitances, fuch as coal 
alhes, drift fand, road foil, and other 
limilar materials, and plt?nty of rotten 
dung, working the whole with the 
natural foil to the above dcptli. 

Where any one is fo happy to pv^ffefs 
a foil whofe natural goodnefs renders 
all foreign artidance unneceflary, no 
more need be done than digging the 
borders one or two fpades dc-p, and 
it is fit for the reception of the trees. 
The feafcn for planting is Oftober 
and November, or even any time in 
open weather till March, in dry warm 
Ibilsj hut in moift or wet foils, we 
prefer the fpring for that work. 

Peach-trees, and, in fhort, all others 
that are defigned for walls, fhould be 
planted in their places of final deftina- 
tion when they are one year old, that is 
when their heads are of one fummer's 
growth from the Sud,^ and with their 
<aid heads entire for the prefent, tiiat 
we may have the opportunity of train- 
ing them from their origin, as it were, 
and in their proper poHtion in tlie 
places where they are finally to remain ; 
for the great art in forming a wall-tree 
depends entirely upon the due pruning 
and training the two firft years, after 
making the firrt (hoot or head from the 
budding. 

But if any one is in hafte to have 
his walls covered at once, as it were, 
with bearing trees, he may be fupplied 
with fuch at moft of the nurfeiies, 
which are what the nurfery-men call 
trained trees, which they fell from five 
to ten fhillings per tree, according to 
the forts, fize, and property of growth. 
Every one may do as they pleafe, but 
we always preferred thofe of one year 
from the bud; for thefe reafons, firft, 
that trees of that age fooner and more 
lirmly eltablifh their roots, which is 
an eriential point to keep in view j and 
fecondly, becaufe we would have the 
tree under our own management from 
the beginning, which we always found 
to be of Importance, 



PEA 

The dirtance tlicfe trees ftould be 
planted tiom one another is fifteen 
feet, and if the walls are high, half or 
full llandards may be planted between 
the dwarfs, to occupy the upper part, 
while the dwarfs grow up to fill that 
fpace; for no part of good walls fhould 
be left unoccupied. 

The rule is this, if the walls are not 
above fix oreightfeet high, plant none 
but dwarfs, and thefe at fifteen feet 
diftance j if the walls are nine feet 
lii^h, half llandards, of about three or 
four feet llem, may be planted between 
the dwaifsj and if the walls are ten 
or twelve feet, or more in height, full 
ftandards, of fix feet fltm, (hould be 
phnted to occupy the upper part ; and 
as the dwarfs are to be the principal 
refidents. way mull be made, as tl»eir 
branches gradually advance, by ctit- 
ting away the lowermofl ones of the 
rtandards by degrees annually, and ac 
laft, in feven, eight, ten, or more years, 
as you fhall fee neceflfary, the llandards 
may be entirely taken away, that the 
dwarfs may advance, and fill the whole 
fpace of walling. 

The mode of plaming being fixed 
on, mark out on the walls the diftance* 
as above for the trees. 

Then, having recourfe to the nurfery, 
let tire trees be taken op with all their 
roots as entire as poflible, for this isof 
much importance; the extreme ends 
of all of which (hould be tipped, i . e. 
a little fhortened, and thofe of broken 
or bruifed ones fmoothed, preferving 
the heads entire for the prefent. Holes 
or pits are then to be opened, capaci< 
ous enough to receive the roots freely 
every way. Place the tree therein, 
about three inches from the wall, with 
tlie bud outward, and then break and 
trim in the earth regularly between all 
the roots and fmall fibres, and tread 
the whole gently, to fix the whole 
plant in its proper pofition; then di- 
reftly tack the head to the wall, ortye 
it to a ilske, to fec\ire it from the 
power of boiiterous winds till March, 
when it is to be headed down. 

If the enfuing fpring or beginning of 
fummer Hioiild prove very dry, indulge 
the trees with moderate waterings once 
or twice a week, according to the 
drought and heat of the feafon, which 
will encourage them to pufh out more 
freely and ftrong after lieading down. 
The trees being planted with their 
firft 



PEA 



PEA 



firft head from the bud entire, as we 
advifed j the next neceflfar)' culture is 
to perform the operation of heading 
them down, which is to be done jult 
as they begin to (hoot, and the proper 
time is March. 

This work coniills in Hioriening the 
head, or fink main (hoot down within 
five or fix eyes of the bud, or place of 
its origin, floping{it off on the fide next 
the wall, juli above an eye, which is 
a necefTiry operation, both to dwtarfs, 
half, and full liandards, that are planted 
againii walls j that by Aopping its up- 
right diredion, it may throw out fe- 
veral lateral fhoots from the remaining 
lower part to the right and left, and 
conttitute the proper foundation for 
forming a wall-tree, whefe firft 
branches IhouJd always proceed on 
borh fides, from within fix in':hes of 
the place of inoculation, whether 
dwarfs for the lower part, or ftandards 
for the middle and top of the wall ; and 
that if the heading down was omitted, 
the confequence would be, the tree 
wouUl advance with a naked ftem, and 
leave almort one half of the allotted 
fpace of walling unoccupied. 

Therefore, pay no regard to the firft 
head from the bud, howfoever large 
and fine it may appear, but cut it down 
as above ; for the general formation of 
the tree depends entirely upon the 
form acquired by this practice, and 
the two Succeeding years pruning. 

The trees being thus headed down, 
they will foon after produce one ftrong 
Ihoot from each remaining eye, obfer- 
ving that fuch as proceed immediately 
from the front and back, are to be con- 
ftantly rubhed off clofe, but all thofe 
that af^vance from the two fides are to 
be prefer ved entire, which, in June, 
when of due length to admit of laying 
in, ihouid be nailed clofe to the wall, 
continuing them tliereto at full length 
during the fummer. 

At the fall of the leaf following, 
proceed to give them their firft winter 
pruning. 

This may be done any time from 
November till March. You are now 
to examine the number of (hoots each 
tree produced the preceding fummer 
from the effed of heading down, and 
to prune them accordingly j for ex- 
ample, if there are two flioots, one on 
each fide, they are both to be retained; 
and to encourage their furnifliing a 



farther fupply of branches ; fliorren 
them to eight or ten, or if of very flrong 
growth, to twelve or fifteen inches, 
and nail them horizontally to the wall. 

If there are three (hoots, the middle 
one of them is to be cut out clofe, and 
(horten the other two as above, and 
nail one to each fidejn a horizontal di- 
rection ; but if the middle (hoot of the 
three be confiderably weaker than the 
other two, it may be retained, and 
nailed in at full length, which proba- 
bly will furnifh a fruit or two, while 
the other two are providing a farther 
neceflfary fupply of wood ; but if is it a 
Itrong (hoot, cut it clean away. 

If the tree is furnifhed with four 
(hoots, two on each tide, retain them 
all, and (horten them from ten to fif- 
teen inches, accordingto their ftrength, 
as above, and nail them equally to the 
right and left. 

And if there are five (hoots, and 
that thofe on the fides are ftrong, and 
the middle one weak, fhorten the for- 
mer as above, and lay them horizon- 
tally, and nail in the middle one en- 
tire ; but if the latter is nearly of equal 
Itrength, or ftronger than the others, 
cut it clean out, which, if left, would 
draw the principal part of the nouri(h- 
ment, and impoverifh thofe of the two 
fides, which (hould now be wholly at- 
tended to, for the middle will always 
furnifh itfelf in due time. 

One fundamental rule to be obfcr\'cd, 
is, that your tree, at this period of 
growth, (hould, if pcfTible, proceed 
with (hoots of an equal ftrength and 
number on each fide, and depends 
principally upon two or four good 
branches, (hortened & trained equally 
to the right and left, in a nearly hori- 
zontal diredion, which will not fail 
in their turn tofurni(h you with more 
to occupy the wall upward. 

The trees having had their firft year's 
pruning, obferv-e the following rules 
in their fecond year's culture. 

During fummer, all (hoots that arifc 
from the upper and under fide of the 
former year's horizontals, are now to 
be retained and trained entire, and all 
buds or (hoots that proceed immedi- 
ately from the front and back part of 
the faid horizontals, fhould be con- 
ftantly rubbed off, becaufe they cannot 
be trained confiftent with the neceflary 
form and regularity of the tree, ha- 
ving particular regard, however, to 
V 2 ttfrrvo 



PEA 



PEA 



teterveall tlie regular fliocfs, and ?rj!a 
them in at full length ; for, exc;))! in 
fomc particular in(tanc«s, the fhoots 
mufl not he /hortenrd in fiimmcr, 
therefore continue them to the wall 
entlie till the winter pruning. 

In November, when the leaves are 
fallen, or any time hetwixt that ami 
tlic beginning of March, you may pro- 
ceed to tl)e fecond winter pruning ; in 
performing tliis, we, for example, 
will fuppofe the tree in the firlt prun- 
ing to have been trained witli four ho- 
rizontals, that is, two on each fide, 
and tliat each of thefe produced two 
or three well-placed fhoots the pre- 
ceding fummer, or as many as to make 
the tree now pofTcfled of eiglit, ten, or 
twelve branches ; now, if thefe f\and 
four, five, or fix on one fide, and as 
many on the other, it is a happy uni- 
formity, and all of them are to be re- 
tained; and that to procure Aill a f^r- 
tlier fupply of horizontals, each of the 
above are now to be fliortened accord- 
ing to its Hrength ; if they are weakly, 
cut them to fix or eight inches, and 
Jf of middling growth to ten or tv^'elve, 
and if viry ftrong ones to about fif- 
teen or eighteen inches, and train them 
to the wall horizontally, at fix inches 
diflance, obfcrving that the oppofite 
branches of each fide range exadtly in 
an equal pofition. 

But where it happens that there are 
an unequal number of fhoots, as for 
inAance, four, five, or fix on one fide, 
and feven, eight, or more on the other, 
and that they are all of tolerable 
i^rength; then, to render both fides 
neaily equal, fome of the weakeft and 
■worft placed on the fuUeft fide fliould 
be cut out. 

Obferve to proceed as near as pofli- 
ble with an equal number and ftrengih 
of horizontals on both fides, extending 
tite lowefl branches the longef^, and 
if yon have now five, fix, or eight on 
a fide, trained at five or fix inches dif- 
tance, your tree will begin to afTume 
a handfome form, and next fummer 
you may expect fome fruit. 

Previous to the general pruning, ob- 
ferve, that peach and neflarine- 
trees always produce their fruit upon 
the onc-yeai old fhoof ; that is, the 
fhoots produced each fuir.mer bear th2 
fticcecding year, and the fame indivi. 
dual fhoots rarely bear but once, nor 
fifi they furnifh good bearin^g wood af- 



ter t!'e lit ft ycai', fo that the grand ar* 
tide in piuning, is to procure an an- 
nual fuccefi"ion of thefe young fhoots 
in eveiy part, from the very botinm 
to the extremity every way of the tree, 
which arc to be obtained principally 
by fhortcning,in w nter pruning, thofe 
of evi^ry year, whereby they furniOi, 
at the fame time, both a proper crop 
of fiuit, and fupply of bearing wof>d. 
The great art in pruning and train- 
ing a peacli and netlarine tree againft 
walls, is to preferve uniformity in every 
part from the beginning, having firift 
regard that both fides to the right and 
left advance with equal f\rength, and 
number of horizontals, whofc numbers 
on each tide Ihould be equally encreafed 
every year, and thofc trained con- 
flantly in a neaily horizontal pcfition, 
at five or fix inches diftance one above 
another, till by degrees, they cover the 
whole fpace of walling allotted for 
them, both in breadth and height ; 
for this isveryeflTentially to beohferved. 
After the tree is thus formed and 
conduced to a bearirvg flate, its dura- 
tion, beauty, and fruitfiilnefs depend 
wholly upon proper pruning every 
fummer and winter. 

TItc general fummer pruning confif^? 
in reforming the irregularity of the 
numejous fhoots -then produced, and 
training to the wall at full length, 
in every part, all regularly placed ones, 
as fuccefllon-wood lor next year's 
be.Tring, for the great art is to procure 
a due fupply of thefe every fummer 
in all parts of the tree. 

And the general winter pruning 
comprehends a general reform among 
all the branches and (hoots of all ages, 
fizes, and fituation, fuch as the re- 
trenching all worn-out and naked 
brandies, as they from time to time 
occur to make room for thofe that fur- 
ni(h the belt bearing-wood, fhoots of 
the preceding fummer; at the fame 
time feledling and retaining in every 
part the beft of the f.iid fhoots for next 
fummer's bearing, cutting out unne- 
cefTary and irregular ones, and all ufe. 
lefs Oioots in general, as well as part 
or the former year's horizontals, to 
make due room to train the proper 
ufeful fhoots; all of which fhould be 
fhortened, to promote their emitting 
laterals in fummer for bearing the year 
after, and the whole then nailed clofe 
to the wall in regular order. 

The 



PEA 



PEA 



The time to begin thefummer pni- 
tiing is in May or June. Every one 
icnows that in fpnng a peach-tree 
abounds with a great number of fhoots, 
ariling from every fide of ttie laft year's 
horizontals or prefent bearers, proba- 
bly three tinnes mote than arc ufeful, 
or than art wanted, or can polTibly be 
trained in without confufion ; you 
murt therefore thin them, and eafe the 
tree of all that are irregular, and luch 
as are evidently ufeiefb and fuperfiu- 
ous, at the fame time retaining a luf- 
ficiency|of the regular|(}ioots j that is, 
two, three, or four of the fide ones 
upon each horizontal, to be trained 
for r»€ltt year's bearing. 

The rule is this : Each of the laft 
year's horizontals will probably pro- 
duce from thiee to fix, or more fhoots, 
and of thfcfc, fonie proceed from the 
upper and under fides, and forr.e from 
the back and fore parts j ihofe of tie 
former fituation, viz. from the u|iper 
and under fides, are to be regarded as 
the only proper regular /hoots, and 
are to be principally attended to, re- 
tained, and trained in at full length, 
to prune upon in %vinter for bearing 
the fiicceeding year ; but thofe that 
proceed dire£>ly foreright from the 
front, and thofe from the back ef the 
horizontals, or from any of the ether 
parts of the tree in that irregular di- 
region, muft be rubbed off clofe, be- 
caufe, bytheirfiteationon the branches, 
they cannot be trained with due regu- 
larity; therefore, that though good of 
themfelvef, they are to be deemed ir- 
regular, or ufelefs (hoots, and /houid 
be every vvhere difplaced, except in 
cafes where horizontals furnifli no 
other, when the beft placed of them 
may be retained. 

In refpeft to the regular fhoots above 
defcribed, examine, as you go on, their 
fituation and number upon each hori- 
zontal ; if two or mere fhoots rife 
from the fame eye, retain only one of 
them ) and if the tree is but a mode- 
rate fliooter, it is necefTary to difour- 
then it of all that are evidently fuper- 
fluous,which are fuch flioots as, though 
good and well placed, yet if there are 
lour, five, or more on a horizontal, 
where only one or two is apparently 
/lecefTary for next year's bearing, fome 
of the weakeft and worfl placed, or 
any remarkably luxuriantones, fhould 
t« cleared away, retaining however. 



where pra^icable, always two of tliB 
beft fititated and faireft fhoots upon the 
weak, and three or four on each of 
the middling and ftrong horizontals, 
which, though double, or even treble 
of what will be appaiently wanted, it 
is eligible culture to referve enough to 
chufe from in winter pruning, train- 
ing the whole at full length during 
fummer. 

But wliere a tree fhoots very vigo- 
roufiy in general, it is advifeable to 
referve as many of the fide-lhoots of 
each horizontal as theie is tolerable 
room to train at full length, which, 
by dividing the fap among many, 
checks luxuriance, which would pro- 
bably take place irt a fnialier number; 
for the natural inclination of thefe 
fort of trees fhould, In fome degree, be 
follo>^'ed. 

Another circumflaivce to be attended 
to in thinning & regulating the (boots, 
is to leave one good (hoot at, or as 
rear the end of each bearing horizon- 
tal as pcfTible, that it may draw the 
fay through the whole branch to the 
nourilhment of the fruit. 

All weak fhoots rifing from the eld 
wood mult be difplaced, unlefs any 
regular placed ones appear ufeful to 
fJl a vacancy. 

If any remarkably vigorous or luxu- 
riant (hoot arife either from the be2r- 
ing horizontals, or any of the older 
branches, examine its fituation and 
firength, and confider whether it is 
wanted; if it is likely to impoverifh 
the neighbouring fhcots of moderate 
growth, or that it is not immediately 
wanted to fill a vacancy, cut it out; 
but if ufeful, either to fill a vacancy, 
or to prevent an apparent one, or to 
exhaufl too abundant fap, retain it, 
and pinch it in May or early in June 
to four or five eyes, and you will pro- 
cure one middling (hoot trom each eye 
the fame year, to train in, to chufe 
from in the winter pruning. 

All thofe very rank or luxuriant 
(hoots, diftingui(hed Angularly from 
the generality of the others of the fame 
tree, by their extraordinary fize, green 
colour, and often rednefs at the tips, 
fhould be cut out from every parr, un- 
lefs you have no other refource to fill a 
vacancy, whenfuch that are duly placed 
for that purpofe may be rtferved and 
pinched as above obferved. 

Attention fhould aways be had to 

die 



PEA 

tlie bottom or lower part of the trees, 
efpccially thofe ilut srrajcd; if any 
llirng (hoot .irife in t!» fe parrs, you 
mud [jrefrve it carefully to (uccecd 
rvorn-out cr naked branches, wtiic'i 
arc cu. -tw.iy by degrees ; and if there 
is a prtkiir vataney, pincl) it early in 
June to tour oi five eyti;, to furnilh la- 
teral (hoots the fame year, to be ready 
ag.tinft tlic wii.ter pruning. 

W.'icie a vacancy cr want of wood 
Is difcovcrefl, atthi< time, m any |>arr, 
and that there is oily one (hoot where 
two, thiee, or i/iore are neceliary, 
flioi ten or pinch the fiid (hoot to three, 
four, or fiv. t.>ei, in May or early in 
June, and it will afF rd a. many late- 
ral tile fame year to fill the vacant 
fpace. 

In the whole operation of fummer 
pruning, obfirve, that all the regular 
ftioots you judge neceffary to retain to 
prune up.o in winter, muft be left 
entire, ihortening none now, except 
in cafes of vacancy as above, and all 
irregul rand other uf.lefs (hoots that 
are now to be taken out, murt be 
rubbed or cut oft as clofe as poffi ole, 
leaving; no liumps, whicli would (hoot 
owt from every eye, and (lil the tree 
■with innumerable ufelefb (hcots, and 
choak up and darken the fruit, and de- 
prive it of the necc(rary benefit of fun, 
air, fliowers, Sec. and which would 
require much time to cut out in the 
winter pruning. 

It is necciTary to obferve,that if the 
above operations are begun early in 
ftjmmer, the (hoots that are to be dif- 
placed may readily be rubbed cfFwith 
the thumb J but obferve, if you delay 
the work till the wood begins to hard- 
en, they will not break o(^eaf)ly with- 
out damaging the mother-branch, 
therefore ufe the knife, and cut them 
as clofc as pofTible. 

After the above regulations, let all 
the remaining fhoots, when of due 
length, be trained clofe to the wall un- 
fhortened, and as their ends adv.Tnce, 
continue to train them flill along at 
full length, and let them rerr.a in en- 
tire until the winter j^runing; for in 
tile common courfe the fhoots mult 
never be fliortened in fummer. 

Thefe are neaiiy ail the dire<??ions 
we have to advance relative to the fum- 
mer pruning j t!ie utility of which, if 
ri.e (^per-ition is performed in due time, 
X v.ry gr«at both to the tree and fiuic. 



PEA 

Therefore, if the operations are be- 
gun in May, only juft rub off all the 
ill pl.»ced buds, that is, foreright ones, 
and thofe behind the bearing hoiizon- 
taU, and fuch others that are evidently 
ufvlefi, as beiore obfcrved ; and in 
June, when the uff ful or rc|;ular (hoots 
are of proper leng-h, they are wfily 
and ixpeditoufly t-ained in, f r every 
one points to its proper place; befides, 
when the work is begun early, it can 
be performed with coniiderably more 
expedition and truth, a* the ufelefs 
buds or (ho> cj may then, with >he ut- 
moft facilit), be rubbed off clofe with 
the thumb, witiiout the ufe of any in- 
(trument, and the f-arly operation will 
contribute v-.ry confiderably to the 
fize ant goodntfs of the fruit, as well 
as beaut) and riu.dtion of the trees. 

The work owever (hould never be 
delayed longer tlim the beginning of 
June, or till the (hoots have attained 
due length for tra ning in, and not, 
as is often the cafe, wait till they 
are two or three feet in length, and 
form fuch a thicket and confufion, 
that the mod expert pruner would 
be at a lofs to know where to begin 
to break through fuch oi;fcurity, to 
determine what is necelTary to be done, 
which, befides, is hrgl.ly prejudicial 
to the profperity of the fruit, the main 
objc<5l, as well as to the beauty and du- 
ration of the tree ; and the confufion 
bccafioned by fuch a thicket of wood 
and leaves prevents you from cutting 
dole, and the trees become full of 
difagreeable (tumps, producing ufelefs 
fiioots from every eye, which take up 
much time to remove in the winter 
pruning; and upon the whole the fruit 
being hidden, choaked up, and as it 
were buried beliind fuch a thicket, be- 
comes tender, as is evident from the 
colour-, which is rather white than 
green, and when thus fuddenly laid 
open to the air, joined to a fcorching 
fun, great part of it withers and drops 
off, which never happens when the 
fruit has from the beginning been 
inured to the weather, by early rub- 
bing off the ufelefs, and training clofe 
the ufeful (hoots, foas to give the fun 
and air free admiffion ; but on the 
contrary the fruit always excels in 
fize, colour, and flavour. 

At this time of laying in, or dref- 
(ing, that is, June, we recommend the 
following obfervation, which could 

not 



PEA 



PEA 



not be To difcoverable at the earlier 
dretrmg, viz. 

Where fhort (hoots, of an inch or 
two in length, appear upon this or the 
former year's horizontals, or fides of 
the old wood, and that they apparently 
will not exceed that length, it is of 
utility to refcrve them, at Jeaft till the 
winter prunins;, hecaufc they may 
prove natural truit-fpurs, vi'hich, at 
that feafon, are dirtin<uilh3ble by ha- 
ving a duller of bloiFom buds. 

If a vacancy is any where difcovercd 
early in fummer, you may pinch fome 
of the Itrongert neighbourini; fhoots to 
three or four eyes, and tii.'v will fur- 
ni(h you fhoots the fame year, to chufe 
from in the winter pruning. 

Do not pull otf any of tlie leaves at 
thi> time, as often pradtifed, with a 
view to admit the fun, for thefe are ne- 
celFary to the growth, both of the 
young fhootsand fruit, fo fhould never 
be taken away, unlefs there is indeed 
in any part fo great a thicket as to 
darken the fruit confiderably, when a 
little thinning may be necelTary ; in 
other cafes that work muil be dif- 
penfed with till the fruit are full grown. 
After the trees have been fummer- 
drelfed, according to the preceding di- 
re(flions, you muft not forget to re- 
view them once a fortnight, to rub off 
any unneccffary or ftraggling fhoott 
that may arife, which is foon done, and 
to fallen up any rtioot that may ftart 
from its place, or projeft from the wall, 
as well as to continue the trained 
flioots in general thereto, as they ad- 
vance in length. 

One thing more, which is neceflary 
to obfirve in the fummer drefTins;. is 
the blight which attacks thefe trees : 
this diforder is the efFeft of noxious 
winds, that occafion the curling up of 
the leaves, which become thick, clam- 
my, ycllowilh, red, and fcabby j and 
attacks the ends of the fhoots, and 
proves very injurious both to the 
young flioots and fruit, and often tlieir« 
deftruiflionj for the blighted kaves ex- 
hauft the fap, at the expence of all tlie 
other parts of tlie tree. When your 
tiees are firll atc.icked, there is no 
o.her remedy for this accidt-nt than to 
pick cfF all the curled leaves as foon 
as difcoverable, and alfo cut otT, be- 
low the diforder, all the inlefted part 
of the ftioots, which generally form a 
iougb difagreeable bufli or chicks: j iliis 



enables the fap to pulh cut ntv7 
(hoots lower drwn, for next year's 
bearing. So dellrudlive is this infec- 
tion, that it frequenrly deflroys in a 
(hort time the whole leaves of a svall 
of trees; and when thefe are gone, the 
principal part of the fruit foon after 
follow, which generally withers and 
drops; as likevvife the young wood, 
for next year's bearing, either dies or 
becomes Hunted. Various other me- 
thods have been tried to prevent the 
fpteadingof this peflilence, but nothing 
effeflnal. 

Irfcils alfo often prove very injuri- 
ous to tiiefe trees ; a fumigating en- 
gine lately invented is recommended, 
in which is burned tobacco, the fmcak 
of which ilTuing with a perpetual 
ftream, is applied to the trees atta; kcd 
by the vermin, which infalliMy de- 
ftroys them, without injury to the trees 
or fruit. 

The winter pruning may be executed ' 
any time from the fall of the leaf in 
November, imtil the beginning of 
March ; for no weather has any parti- 
cular effeft with regard to proving in- 
juiious to the new-cut (hoots. 

This work however fhould never be 
delayed till late in fpring, becaufe ths 
bloffcm bnds will be fo very turgid or 
fwelled, that numbers of them will be 
unavoidably rubtsed off in performing 
the operation of pruning and nailing; 
though fome wait till this period, that 
ihty may better judge of the good or 
bad buds, and of the wood-buds from 
thofe that produce blcffom and fruit. 
This is cf fome importance, but the 
fap is generally rifen fufficient'y in Ja- 
nuary, or fooner, to fwell the buds, to 
enable you to diftinguifh them. 

As thefe trees always bear their fruit 
tipon the one-year old wood ; that is, 
the fhoots produced each fummer bear 
the fruit the fummer following, fo 
that the fruit-buds are principally to 
be looked for upon tlefe (hoots. 

Wocd-buds are diJlir.guifhable hy 
their being long and firm; blofToni 
buds are round, fwelling, th/'ck, and 
foft. 

It muft be obferved that good blof- 
fom buds are always double, tv/o at an 
eye, having a leaf-bud or fhoot between 
them; thefe that r.rc fmgle, though 
they fometimcs have a leaf-biid, and 
Mow putty wc!!, never fet fruit fo 
freely as the twin LkfToms. 

Great 



PEA 



PEA 



Great attention muft always be had 
to keep every p.iit of tlie tree well for- 
nifhcd with an annual fupply of young 
wood, of ilie former furnnier, for bear- 
ing next year, advancing, as it were, 
j^radually one behind anotlier, from tho 
bottom to the cxircmity every vi^ay ; 
which is cafily acquired by pioperiy fe- 
kdting, tlijnning, and fhoricning thofe 
of every year, and by cutting out an- 
nually fome of the old horizoncals to 
make room for thtm. Likewife ol>- 
ferve, that as the bottom of the trees 
are apt to btccme naked, be alfo 
watchful of that part, to retain in pro- 
per places an annual fupply of flrong 
young wood, eitlier to fill an immedi- 
ate vacancy, or to be trained up gra- 
dually to fupply the place of any naked 
wr worn-out branch, that may Iwppen 
either thtre, in the middle or upper 
partj which are I'uch tliat fupport lit- 
tle or no )oung wood, or produce 
weak and a fcanty portion of flioots, 
and fhould, wherever they appear, be 
cut down to the great branch from 
which they proceed, or to any lower 
firong young fhoot they fupport, or 
any convenient branch fupporting fuch 
fhoots : and part of the old horizon- 
tals mull be cut out annually, to make 
room to train in the bearing wood. 

Previous to the performing the ope- 
ration of winter prunint;, it iseligibld 
to utinail the greater part of the 
branches, and all the young fhoots in 
j^cneral ; you then have full liberty to 
t-xamine the flare and fuuation of the 
whole, as well as to have due com- 
inand in uling your knife, and nailing 
t!)e tree again in regular order, ac- 
cording to the fnuarion and llrengih 
of the genera! fupply of young fhoots 
necefTary to be trained for next fum- 
nier's bearing, Arc. 

The tiees being unnailed as above, 
you fliould firfl proceed to examine 
all the principal branches, and fee if 
any are bec:ime naked, or worn out, 
^Jaksd branches are fucli that, as for- 
merly hinted, liave advanced a confj- 
tierable length, and fupport very little 
or no good bea-ing (iioots, or lateral 
>iranches furnifhcd with fuch wood, 
:incl fhould be cut out tothtir origin, 
piovided there are proper ycungwocd, 
or horizontals, wtii furnil]>cu with 
fuch ilioots, properly iituated to be 
rraini-d up to fupply their places ; for 
v.-ay muft alv.a,^'i be made for iholc 



branches that fumifh the bert younj 
wood, both for bearing the following 
fummer, and providing a further fup- 
ply of fhoots tor future fervice. And 
the worn out branches are ealily dif- 
tinguifhed by their uncommonly weak 
fhoftting, fo fhould be cut out as above, 
to make room to extend thofe of bet- 
ter i?rowth. 

From thefe you pafs to regulate the 
fhoots of the year ; of which you wili 
lind often, on the fame tree, weak 
ones, middle-lized ones, and fome of 
very luxuriant growth; thofe of the 
niiddk-lize are to be principally at- 
tended to ; obferving, as noticed in 
the fummer pruning, that the proper 
ihoots for our prefcnt ^jurpofe to train 
for next fummer's bearing, are princi- 
pally thofe that grow upon the one- 
year old horizontals, and of wliich we 
are now to (eU-& and retain the mofl re- 
gular placed ones, namely, fuch as are 
the mofl properly fituatcd for training 
clofe and neatly to the wall, which are 
chiefly thofe that proceed from the two 
fides of the faid horizontals, fo that 
keeping thofe in view for training, 
c'ear away all the irregular and other 
ufelefb fhoots. as hereunder mentioned, 

Suppofe your tree to be chiefly of 
moderate growth, and here and there 
in it fhoots of fuperior luxuriance and 
ranknefa ; thefe, where-ever fuuated, 
mu;1 be cutout clofe: but if the tree 
is in general vigorous or luxuriant, 
the fhoots mull only be thinned in a 
moderate way, as hereafter direfled. 

Ail fhoots of extreme weaknefs 
fhould be cut away, unlefs you fhall 
fee it neceffary to keep one here and 
tliere to fill a vacancy, or as a rcferve 
in cafe of one ihefuiurc year, iu which 
latter cafe 1 would cut them down to 
an eye or two. 

] do not comprehend by weak fhocts 
thofe fhort ones an inch or two long, 
which 1 call natural fruit-fpurs, and 
o.*^tcn furnifh excellent fruit. Thefe 
luuA be retained. 

All forcright ihoots, and fuch that 
proceed direclly from the back of 
the branches, and in other irregular 
diredlicns, that cannot be trained con- 
fifteiU vk'ith the uniformity of the tree, 
and t.'iofe arifing from the old wood, 
are alfo to be cut oft" clofe, except in 
cafes of vacancy, and that there is no 
other refource. 

C'Jt away ?.li flumps c£ iMl fummer, 
and 



PEA 



PEA 



and leave none now, cutting every 
thing clofc. 

During the whole operation of the 
above reforms, great attention muft be 
obfcrved in ftlefting and retaining all 
the well-placed regular f:(je-fhoots 
above defcribed, which muft next be 
regulated according to the following 
rules. 

Having in this manner cleared your 
tree from worn-out branches, and 
from luxuriant, irregular, and other 
bad fhoots, there is nothing left but 
ufeful branches fupporting horizon- 
tals, furnifhed with proper young 
wood, nearly of equal rtrength, and 
you fee your work clear; you have no- 
thing now to do but feleft and letain 
upon each horizontal a due portion of 
the belt placed of thefe proper fhoots, 
and retrench the fuperf^uous ones. 

Examine therefore the number of 
proper fhoots upon each horizontal, 
and their Arength, keeping in mind, 
that the middling ftrong ones are to 
be principally attended to. We ad- 
vifed in the fummer pruning to leave 
upon each horizontal two, three, or 
four (hoots, according to the firength 
of the tree in general : now, if your 
tree is fully trained, no more than one 
or two, as you fhall fee nece/Tary, need 
be left upon each horizontal, except 
in cafes where a tree is very luxuriant, 
or where there is a very wide fpace to 
fill, or a vacancy in its neighbourhood j 
but if the tree is (till in training, you 
may retain two or more fhoots upon 
each bearer, as you Ihall judge expedi- 
ent, to forward the tree to its intended 
form. But fuppofe you are upon a 
Aill trained tree, or fuch that are nearly 
fo, and that you judge one of the young 
Ihoots on each horizontal fufficient, 
keeping in view they Ihould be trained 
about five,fix,orfeven inches diftance; 
on this confideration you are to feleft 
the beft of the lowermoA of thefe 
fhoots, -unlefs you (hall judge neceffary 
to advance the length of the branch ; 
then cliufe the be(t of the uppermoft, 
obferving that whatfoever (hoot you fix 
upon, to cut off the upper part of the 
horizontal on which it (tands, clofe to 
the faid (hoot, or if you leave two or 
more fhoots upon each horizontal, let 
one be near the upper, and the other 
rear the lower part thereof, on the op- 
pofite fides, and cut down the hori- 
zontal to the uppermoft oi the two 

Vol. II. 



/hoots, fo that by cutting away part of 
each of the former year's horizontal, 
the temaining part is ternriinated by a 
young (hoot, which now commence* 
the bearer or horizontal of the enfuing 
year. 

Obferve, where two or more ftioots 
arife from the fame eye, never leave 
but one. 

Where any fhoots rife from the fides 
of the old wood or main branches, 
and which you fliall judge nere/Tary to 
retain, either to fill a prefent vacancy, 
or to be ready for an apparent one, it 
may be referved without fhortening 
down the faid branch to it, as is m* 
cefTary in the one year's horizontals, 
unlefs that part of the faid branch im- 
mediately from the fhoot upward is 
naked, or unfurnilhed with young 
wood, in which cafe take it down to 
thelhoo: in queftion. 

Thofc fl.ort (hoots or natnral fpurs, 
an inch or two long, above obferved, 
maybe retained wherever they appear, 
for they are generally well furnifhed 
with blo/Tom buds. 

Obferve, that many of the principal 
bearing fhoots which you now retain, 
will have probably put out feveral 
fmall twigs or fide fhoots j thefe, being 
produced late, are generally fpongy, be- 
fides, being fuperfluousor unneceiTary, 
muft be cut clofe, leaving only the 
main fhoot. 

In cutting out the irregular and fu- 
perfluous vood in general, cut ail 
clofe, leaving no ftump, whicii wou d 
fend out (hcots from every eye the en». 
fuing fummer, and crowd yciir tree 
with ufelefs wood J and any of thofe 
(hort natural fpurs of the former year, 
now devoid ot bloffom buds, or that 
exceed two or three inches in Itngth, 
ihould now alfo be cut away clofe, but 
efpecially thofe that advanc; t ireftly 
foreright. 

After making thefe reforms of regu- 
lating and thinning, we proceed to 
confider of fhortening the remaining 
feledt (hoots, the utility of which is 
obvious; for iS thefe trees always pro- 
duce their fruit upon the one-year old 
(hoots, the fame wood, by proper 
fhortening in winter pruning, fur- 
nllhes, as well as fruit, lateral (hoots 
the followirg fummer, to bear the fruit 
the year ifter that; therefore, to pro- 
cure an annual fupply of young wood 
in the proper parts, wcmuft not omit 
X fteppin^ 



PEA 



PEA 



/topping or fhortening that of each 
■year in the winter pruning, by which 
each fhoot will emit two, three, or 
more lateral ones the fucceeding fum- 
mer ; whereas, if they were left at full 
length, the fap wl.ich would have 
thrown outfhoots hclow, would mount 
to the extremitici, and leave the bot- 
tom bare, and in a fliort time all tiie 
lower part of the tree would become 
raked, and furniflied with bearing 
wood only towards the extreme parti. 
The rule of fliortcning is this j if the 
tree is in health, and of a middling free 
growth, (hoi ten or cut off about one- 
third of the length of each (hoot ; for 
inllance, (hoots often or twelve inches 
fhould beniortenedtofixoreight; thofe 
of about fifteen or eighteen inches 
Ihorten to eight, ten, or twelve; and 
To in proportion to the length and fub- 
ftance of the refpeflive (lioots, obfer- 
ving, where a tree is weak, or on the 
decline, and makes weakly (hoots, to 
leave the (hoots thin, a»d cut them 
Ciorter in proportion : on the con- 
trary, where a tree i". in general a vigo- 
rous fliooter, leave the (hoots clofe, and 
Shorten them moderately, which by re- 
taining a good deal of wood to divide 
and exhauftjthe great redundancy of 
fap, is the only means to reduce a lux- 
uriant tree to a ftate of moderate 
growth, and to bear plentifully. 

In fliortening thefe flioots, it is of 
importance to cut them juft above a 
wood, or branch-bud, that it may pro- 
duce a (hoot for a leader, to draw the 
fap through the whole horizontal, the 
more efFedually to nourifh its refpec- 
tivc fruit. A wood bud is with faci- 
lity diftlngoifhed from a blofTom-bud ; 
the former is long, narrow, and firm, 
the blofTom-buds are roundifh, thick, 
fwelling, and foft; fo that by cutting 
to a wood bud you are fure of a lead- 
ing fhoot, and the fruit will be well 
nourifhed ; but where two blo(rom- 
buds appear on the fame eye, a wood- 
bud alfo generally ifTues from between, 
fo that if you cannot conveniently cut 
to a wood-bud, make the cut to a 
twin blofTom-bud as above. 

Thus much for the general direfti- 
ons to be obferved in the principal 
winter pruning, although there are 
other circum(\ances that cannot be con- 
veyed by words, nor judged of but 
upon the fpot, which depend chiefly 
upon pradice. 



We will however fubjoin a few other 
particularsvery necc(rarytobeobf(;rve<l. 

In the courfe of pradice, you will 
meet with trees of very different habits 
of growth ; fome, for inAance, arc 
weakly, and produce fmall or weak 
fhoots ; others, of a middling (late, 
(hoot freely in every part, but not too 
vigorous, which is the moft defireabl? 
flate of growth of any; and fome 
(hoot very vigorous in almoft every 
part. With refpeft to the former, if 
the tree m.akes very weak flioots, ex- 
amine whether the difeafe is at the root; 
if it is, pull it up; if not, preferve it, 
and dig in rotten dung, which often 
recovers thefe fort of trees, obferving 
to keep it thin of wood, and prune 
the (hoots (hort, and even the befl to 
five or (ix inches, till it recovers. In 
the fecond cafe, the middling fhooting 
tree is to be managed as in the general 
direftions. And in the third inftance, 
if tlie tree be remarkably vogorous, and 
bear little, it (huuld in fome degree be 
humoured in its own way ; for if you 
cut out many, and fhorten confider- 
ably the remainder of thefe very vigo- 
rous fhoots, where they are general, as 
is frequently done without mercy, fup- 
pofing by that pradice to check luxu- 
riance, and fo continue to prune, and 
depend entirely upon the fmalleft ones, 
the confequence is, that by much 
thinning, and clofe cutting vigorous 
trees, they continue to (hoot (lill with 
greater vigour and irregularity for fe- 
veral years, without being able to gain 
either form or fruit, till at laft, by fc- 
vere pruning, they pafs into the oppo- 
lite extreme, become, as it were, tired 
with adling ineffeflually, grow weak & 
fickly, and (hoot no more. On the 
contrary, by following, in fome de- 
gree, the inclination of the tree, leav- 
ing the fhoots as clofe as there is any 
tolerable room to lay them in, and (hor- 
tening rhem very litrle, fome of the 
Arongeft not at ail ; and by thus leaving 
a good deal of wood, and that at a con- 
fiderable length, the fap is divided, 
and the luxuriance is checked ; and ir 
a year or two your tree will become a 
moderate (Viooter, and furnifh fin'.- 
youngwood, and bear plentifully. 

The trees being pruned, they (hould 
be direflly (nailed to the wall ; as you 
go on, that is, as foon as one tree is 
pruned, let that be nailed before you 
prune another. 



PEA 



P T. A 



Peach-trees come into bloiTom early 
in fpring, when cutting trolh prevail, 
which, in fome feafons, is (o fevere as 
to cut off the wliole. Not only the 
bloirom is liable to this difafter, but 
alfo tlie young fruit, till they are as 
large as ordinary cherries, which oblige 
ws to have recourfe to all poHible 
means to defend them. 

The dangerous time lafts a month 
or fix weeks ; various ways have been 
tiied to iliicld the trees during that 
period ; fome cover with large garden 
mats, which are often found of great 
ufe; but where there is much wall- 
ing, it takes up much time to cover 
•and uncover, as the danger threatens, 
lor they muit only be ufcd when there 
jS apparent danger: fiee air and llglu 
mufl be admitted, fo that it the mats 
are nailed up in an evening when there 
35 an appearance cf a cutting frofl, 
they fhould be removed again in the 
inornirg, if the weather is quite mild ; 
but if not, they may be permitted to 
remain till it is : do not omit !)o\vever 
to take tl.'.m down v.hen the weather 
change^ ; :u;d fo continue their ufe only 
occafioii.iil), till your fruit are as big 
as large : iis at leaft. 

This is the piincipal expedient in 
praftice to defend thefe trees, which, 
lifter all, fometimes does not fecure 
a quarter of a cropj it ho'.vever 
ihould not be omitted in hazaidou; 
times, efpecially to fome of the early 
and choice forti. 

There is another method which we 
have fometimes experienced to favc a 
few fruit, when all that were fully ex- 
pofed were cut off: this is to procure a 
quantity of cuttings from the branches 
of evergreen trees, fuch as thofe of 
laurel, yew, fpruce-fir, &c. and flick 
them moderately thick between the 
branches of the peach-tree, fo that the 
leaves of the cuttings cover che blofTom j 
thefe fliould be placed when the blof- 
foms begin to open, not too thick to 
darken it, and may be permitted to 
remain until the beginning of May, 
when the fruit will be fet, and paft 
danger. In default of llie above cut- 
tings, branches of dried fern may be 
ufed. 

Neither of thefe metliods of cover- 
ing, nor indeed any other, can we re- 
commend as generally effedual ; but 
a poor expedient is better than none; 
they oftan infure a few fruit, when 



thofe that are fully expoftd are all de 
ftroyed by the froft, 

in favourable feafons peach and 
neflarine-trees fometimes fet ihcirfruit 
very thick in every parr, often double 
or treble the quantity tliat have room- 
to grow, or the trees capable of nou- 
rishing, and frequently the fruit ai9 
fet only here and there in clurters; in 
either cafe tliey mufl be thinnec', other- 
wife the fruit will not attain l-alf its 
common fize, and duiing tlieir growth 
would thrufl one ancth.r ofl"; bcfides, 
if the trees are overloaded, they wouKl 
produce but very weakly fhoots for 
next year's bearing, and would be two 
years before they recovered themfelvcs. 
This work fhould be performed 
whsntiie fruit have attained nearly the 
fize of fmall cherries, vvliich will be 
fome time in May, for if ycu thin :!;em 
fooner, fiolts may deliroy the remain- 
der, and you have no refource left. 

Ihe rule of thinning is, if the tree 
is weak the fruit mufl be left thin, not 
more than one or tv^'o on the larger 
flioo's, and none upon the fmaU ones, 
which is the only way to infure wood 
for another year : uj.'on trees cf a mid- 
dling iiiong growth you fhould letain 
but one fruit upon the fmallcr fl^oors, 
and two upon the middling fizcd one^, 
and three upon the Arong fhoots : but 
the fmaiieft kindi i>f fruit may be left 
a little thici^er in proportion, and the 
large forti fnould be thinner,!, e. about 
fix inches dillant upon each fhoot, 
and the largeft of all eight or ten. In 
peiforming this wcrk,cbfervc to feledt 
and retain the heft placed, largell, and 
faired fiuit, in every pait, a>;cording 
to the above rule ; and in removing the 
fuperabundant ones, be careful not to 
dillurb tliefe. Leave no where two or 
more iinon the fame eye, efpecially if 
one e.xcctds the other in fize, taking 
off the fmalleft, which the otherwould 
f\:-.rve ; but if they ara of equal fize, 
you may, if it fhall feem necelTary, 
leave both of them. 

We formerly obfcrved, that it was of 
utility to preferve a llighc coverture of 
the leaves of the tree, by way of fnade 
to the fruit during their growth, anct 
until they begin to change colour ; 
when they have attained tli.it i^ate of 
perfeftion, it is necelfary to pinch oft 

a few of tl.e leaves that immediately 

cover the fruit, to admit the fun ce give 

it colour and flavour. 

Xz Do 



PEA 



PEA 



Do tills however regularly, and tliln 
the leaves by decrees, which fhould be 
pinched, and not torn off, which would 
mangle the eyes, and prevent the fruit 
buds from forming themfelves for next 
year. 

Peach-trees, from the time of head- 
ing down to the; fjxth or feventh year, 
may be faid to he in a Uate of training, 
though they frequently begin to bear 
the fecond or third year after the ope- 
ration of heading down j and in five, 
<ix, or feven years will bear pretty 
plentifully, according to their fize, for 
they will not 'have attained their full 
growth till they are ten, twelve, or 
fifteen years old, according to the ex- 
tent of walling they have to cover, at 
which age they will be arrived at the 
beginning of their ultimate ftate of vi- 
gour and perfeiflion of bearing, which 
they generally acquire between the 
feventh and fifteenth year, and in which 
they will continue for twenty or thirty 
years to come; for thefe trees, with 
due management, will endure fifty or 
f;xty years, provided no accident hap- 
pen, fuch as violent bliglus, or tainted 
with gum, or attacked by vermin; fo 
that the opinion of fome, that peach- 
trees are feldom of more than twelve 
or fifteen years duration, is erroneous, 
and muft be given up, for it is owing 
only to bad management that they do 
not laft as long as other fruit-trees. 

The trees may be faid to be in their 
third ftate when they begin to decline 
through age ; but if our general direc- 
tions in pruning are obferved, this fel- 
dom happens until they are upwards 
of thirty or forty years old, when they 
(hould be cherifhed by leaving only the 
beft young (hoots, and that moderately 
thin, and which fhould be pruned 
fhorter than the general rules. Make 
the moft of ftrong iyoung wood that 
rifes from or near the bottom, tofup- 
ply the place of worn-out branches. 

When it is obferved any trees ap- 
proach rear their end, and the bottom 
of the walls become naked, young trees 
fliould be planted in due time in the 
fpaces between the old ones to fucceed 
them, and as they (hoot up lop off the 
lower branches of the old trees, which 
in four or five years may be taken en- 
tirely away; thus you may keep your 
walls always occupied, without in- 
termiflion. 

It fometlmes happens that the trees 



do not bear fruit of the approved or 
defired fort, which is often the morti- 
fying circumftance when purchafed 
in fome nurfcries, and a very cruel one, 
after all the trouble of training, &c. 
To remedy this ycu, in Augult, may 
bud fome of the young (hoots of the 
fame year, in different parts of the tree, 
and as thcfc advance, cut the other 
parts away, and in two or three years 
they will fpread conflderably, and bear 
fruit. 

If the gum has attacked any (hoot 
of a tree, young or old, cut it off an 
i neb below, to (top the communication, 
and prevent killing the whole fhoot. 

The utility of tillage to thefe trees 
is very obvious, and fhould be per- 
formed every autumn and fpring. 

Dung, in moderation, is alfo of the 
utmoft utility in preferving due vigour 
and health in thefe trees, and to pro- 
mote the fize of the fruit; let it be 
perfedly rotten, and added every two 
or three years, fpreading it all over the 
border, and dig it in in the ufual way. 

As to cultivating kitchen herbage 
on the borders, the moderate growing 
forts, fuch as radidies, lettuce, fmall 
fallad herbs, kidney-beans, a few fmall 
early mazagan beans, peas, &c. do 
very little or no injury to the trees. 

Peach and neftarine- trees are often 
planted in forcing-frames and hot- 
walls, to produce early fruit ; the 
forts proper for this are the earlieft 
kinds. 

There are two varieties of peach- 
trees that are efteemed chiefly by way 
of curiofity and ornament, which we 
judge it molt proper to fpeak of under 
a feparate head. Thefe are, the 

Double bloffomed peach-tree; and 
Dwarf peach-tree. 

The former of thefe has great beauty 
in its double flowers ; it attains the 
height of common peach-trees, and dif. 
fers in nothing from them but in the 
doublenefs of its flowers, which, like 
thofe of the others, are fucceeded by 
fruit : the tree make a fine appearance 
in ornamental plantations. 

The dwarf peach rifes but two or 
three feet high ; the fiem is fmall, and 
hath very (lender branches, which pro- 
duce fmall infipid fruit, the fize of a 
nutmeg. It is fometimes planted in 
pots, and brought to table with the 
fruit upon for curiofity, and makes a 
Angular appearance. 

For 



PEA 



PEA 



;■{> 



For purpofes of ornament, any of 
t!«e forts of peach-trees may, with pro- 
priety, he admitted as flandards in the 
flirubbery, and will make a fine ap- 
pearance when in bloom ; and if they 
ftand in a (heitered fituation, there 
will be a chance of having now and 
then fome fruit from them : they may 
either be planted as flandard-dwarfs, 
•r as half or common standards* 

The propagation of the double 
bloHomed and dwarf kind is efFc(fled 
by budding, the fame as common 
peach-trees. 

The neflarlne and peach-trees have 
been generally confidered as diftinft 
fpecies, principally by the difference 
of their fruit; but late difcoveries has 
determined otherwife, and that they 
are found to be varieties of one an- 
other, but which Is the original is not 
yet agreed on ; but certain it is, that 
there have been inftances of nec- 
tarines growing naturally on peach- 
trees, accompanied by peaches on the 
fame branch j which very lingular phoe- 
nomenon determines thena to be vari- 
eties of one fpecies. 

Neither the trees, by their manner 
of growth, the wood, leaves, nor fJow- 
ers of nedtarines and peaches, can 
with any precifion be diftingulQied 
from one another; but the fruit is dif- 
tjnguifliable at fight in all its ftages of 
growth ; that of the nedarine hath a 
fmooth firm fkin or rind, and the peach 
is covered with a foft downy matter ; 
the fiefh too or pulp of the nedarine is 
confiderably firmer than that of peaches . 
See Nectarine. 

WOLF-PEACH, [Lycopfrjcan.'] 
Love- Apple, fee Love- Apple. 

PEACOCK, [Pa-vo.] In ornitho- 
logy, a genus of birds, of the order 
of the gallinae, the charaders of which 
arethefe: there are four toes on each 
foot, and the head is ornamented with 
an ere£l creft of feathers. 

PEARL, [Margarita.] in natural 
hif\ory, a hard, white, fhining body, 
ufually roundiih, found in a teftacious 
fifh referabling an oyfler. 

Pearls, though efteemed of the num- 
ber of gems by cur jewellers, and 
highly valued, not only at this time, 
but in all age', proceed only from a 
difteniper in the creature that produ- 
ces them, analogous to the bezoars, 
and other flony concretions in feveral 
animali of other kinds j and what the 



antients imagined to be a drop of dew 
concreted into a pearl in tlie body of 
the pearlfirti, which they fuppofed 
rofe from the bottom to the furface of 
the water to receive it, is nothing 
more than the matter defined to form 
and enlarge the fhell, burfting from 
the veffels t^eftined to carry it to the 
parts of the- fhell it would have formed, 
and by tliat means producing thefc 
little concretions. 

The fiPA in which thefe are ufually 
produced is the Eaft-India peari-oyfler, 
as it is commonly called ; it has a very 
large and broad fhell of the bivalve- 
kind, fometimes meafuring twelve or 
fourteen.inches over, but thofe of eight 
inches are more frequent: it is not 
very deep; on the outfide it is of a 
dullcy brown, and within of a xery 
beautiful white, with tinges of feveral 
other colours, as expofed in diflerent di- 
reftions to the light. Befides this fhell, 
there are many otht:rs that are found to 
produce pearls ; as the common oy- 
fter, tlie mufcle, the pinna marina, 
and feveral others, the pearls of which 
are often very good, but tiiofe of ti>e 
true Indian burberi, or pearl-oyfler, 
are in general fuperior to all. Tfi« 
fmall or feed pearls, alfo called ounce 
pearls, from their being fold by tfae 
ounce, and not by tale, are vaftly the 
moft numerous and common j but as 
in diamonds, among the multitudes of 
fmall ones, there are fmalier i>ambers 
of larger found, fo in pearls there are 
larger and larger kinds ; but as they 
increafc in fize, they are proportionafaly 
iefi frequent, and this is one reafoa 
of their great price. 

Artijicia! H E A R L s . Are made by ro- 
ducing feed pearls to a pafte, by mz^(\i 
of a chemical preparation called mer- 
curial water, making the beads in sil- 
ver moulds, boting them with a h«g'« 
briftle, and drying them in a doled 
glafs in the fun. 

Beads, in imitation of pearls, ars 
alfo made of wax, and covered with 
the fcales of feveral kinds of fifhes, 

PEAR-TREE, [Pyruil There Is 
only one fpecies of this tree, but it 
comprehends almoft endlefs varieties, 
which furnifh fruit for ufe from the 
beginning of July until May or Junethc 
next year. We flsall confine ourft'.ves 
to a lift of the mofl valuable, arran^jed 
in three clafTes; fummer-pears, ad- 
tamn-pears, and v/inter-pears. 

Surrmei; 



T t A 



PEA 



Summcr-Peirs are fucli as rTpen 
from tlie beginning or niiddlcof July 
until the middle or latter end of Sep- 
tember, and continue but a ftiort tiaie 
in pert'eflion : fome of the earliefl forts 
keep good only a few days before tliey 
become mealy and rotten ; and very few 
of the forts will l.u\ mucli above a fort- 
night ; but by having difiertnt varieties 
the fucceffion may be continued two 
months or ten v.etUs, tlllfuccecded by 
the autumnal forts, which will conti- 
nue in eating f.omthe end of Septem- 
ber till Chriflmas. 

Little Muflc-Pear. A fmall round- 
irti yellow pear of a mufky flavour, va- 
luable for its early perfeiflion : ripe 
beginclng or mirfdle cf July, 

Grten Chiflcl Pear. A fmallifh, near- 
ly oblong, light- green pear, melting, 
very juicy, and agreeably ilavcu red j 
ripe the middle or end of July, 

Red Mufcadelle, or Taircil Supreme. 
A middle-fized, beautiful, red-firiped 
and yellow pear, fomewhat firm, break- 
ing juicy and rich flavoured ; ripe the 
end of July and the beginning of 
Auguft. 

Jargonelle Pear^commonly fo called, 
1)ut is properly CuilTe Madam, or La- 
dy's thigh, A largii'h, long, pyrami- 
dal, ruffetty-green pear ; ripe begin- 
ning cr middle of A'jgufL 

Cuifie Madam Pear, commonly fo 
called, but is properly the Jargonelle. 
A fine large oblong, fmooth, yellowilh- 
green pear, fometimes reddened next 
the fun, having a firm pulp, tolerably 
juicy, and agreeably relifhed, though 
not high flavoured, and is apt to be- 
come mealy when full ripe J but be- 
ing a large handfome fruit, and the 
tree a remarkably good bearer ; it 
highly merits culture, particularly for 
the fupply of markets; and for which 
purpofe it is greatly cultivated about 
London : ripe towards the middle of 
Auguft. 

Windfor Pear. A large oblonglHi 
pear, fwtlling confidcrably towards 
the crown, of a greenifli-ycllow colour, 
having a fofti/h pulp, but foon be- 
co.Ties mealy : ripe middle or end of 
Auguft. 

This fort and the former bear a 
great refemblance to each other, but 
this is rather fhorter and more fwelling 
tov.-ards the crown. 

Great Blanquette Pear. A large 
roundifh, yellcwifli-green, fmooth 



pear, having a foft juicy flefli of a ricli 
flavour: ripe beginning or middle of 
Auguft. 

Little Blanquette Fear. A fmall, 
roundifti, fn;ootli, yellowifh-green 
pear : ripe middle or end of Auguft. 

Early Ruflclet Pear. A middle fizcd, 
oblong; reddifti pear, melting, and re- 
plete with fugary juice: ripe about 
the Fnidd'e of Auguft. 

Alufk Rohine, or Queen's Pear. A 
fmall roundifti, top-ftiaped, yellowifh- 
coloured pear, tender, fweet, and 
mulky: lipe middle or end of Auguft, 

Red Orange Pear. A middle-fized, 
globular peai, reddened on t!)e funny 
fide, the othei green, melting and rich- 
ly flavoured : ripe end of Auguft. 

Perfumed Fear. A middling, round- 
Ifh, deep-red pear, fpotted with brown, 
having a melting perfumed flefh: ripe 
end cf Auguft. ; ' 

Orange Mulk Pear. A large, round, 
yellow pear, very good if taten from 
the tree, as foon as a little ripe; ic 
ripens in the end of Auguft. 

Auguft Mufcat, or Poyal Pear. A 
largifli, globular, whitifh-yellow pear, 
breaking fugary and perfumed, and 
one of the fineft pears of the feafon ; 
ripe end of Auguft. 

Onion Pear. A middle-fized, glo- 
bular, brown-flcinned pear ; ripe end 
of Auguft, 

Salviatj Pear, A largirti, globular, 
flatted pear, reddifli and yellow to the 
fun, and whitifti on the other fide, 
tender and agreeably flavoured : ripe 
beginning of September. 

Red Admiraisle Pear. A large glo- 
bular pear, crimfon-coloured on the 
funny-fide : ripe in September. 

Summer Bon Chretian, or Good 
Chrifiian. A fine, large, oblong pear, 
beautifully reddened next the fun, and 
whitifh on the other fide, breaking and 
liighly flavoured : ripe beginning of 
September. 

llofe Water Pear, A middle-fized, 
globular, brownifti red, rough pear, 
breaking and finely flavoured : ripe 
middle of September. 

Summer Bergamot Pear. A largifti, 
round-flatted, greenlfli-yellow pear, 
melting and fugary ; ripe middle of 
September. 

Varieties. There are two or three 
varieties of this fort that difl^er in fize, 
but are all of the Bergamot fliape. 

Orange Bergamot Pear. A larglfh 
round- 



PEA 



PEA 



Tound-flattcd, greenidi-yellow pear, 
reddifh next the fun, breaking and re- 
plete with perfumed juice: ripe to- 
wards the end of September. 

Other Summer Pears of lefs note 
are known by the foilowine; names j 
Catharine Pear,— St. James's Pear— 



Monfieur John Pear. A largifh 
nearly round, fwellinc, brown pear 
with a rough fl;in, having a breaking, 
delicious pulp; ripe end of Oflober, 
continuing in perkftion all November 
and part of December. 

Crefane Pear. A large, fomewhat 



Crawford Pear, — Citron Ptar, — Pear globular, flatied, greenifti-ycilow, ruf- 
Piper, — BrutcPear, — MutlvdronePear, fety pear, lioliowed at the top, is re- 
Lemon Pear, — Green Mu(k Pear, markahly tender and fweer, jnd may 



-Long ftalked B anqueite Pear. 

All the kinds of Summer pears ripen 
on the trees fit for eatmg, but (hould 
be gathered before they are too ripe. 
Aatumnal Pears. 

Autumn pears are fuch as attain 
their full growth on the trees from 
about the middle or end of September 
till the end of Oiftober ; and which 
after being gathered gradually mellow 
and improve in flavour, and v/i!l keep 
fome a month, others fix weeks, and 



be ranked as the fineft pear of the fea- 
fon : ripe end of Odlober, keeping 
good till December, 

Swann'i-egg pear. A moderately 
large, egg-fhaped, dufky-grten pear, 
brownifh next the fun, is very juicy 
and agreeably flavoured : ripe end of 
Odoher, continuing in tolerable per- 
fection till near Cluifimas. 

Verte Longue, Long-Green Pear, or 
Autumn Mouth-water. A large, long, 
very green |.'ear, is melting and juicy t 
ripe in Oflober, and continues till 



fome two months or longer ; being in 

eating principally in Oiflober, Novem- December. 

ber, and December. Marquis's Pear. A fine large, fwell- 

AutumnBergamot Pear. A middle- Ing, flat-topped, greeni/h-yellow pear, 
fized, roundifh, flatted, yellowifh-green faintly fpoticd with red, having a ten- 
pear, faintly reddening next the fun, der good pulp ^ is in eating in Kovem- 
meking, and of a richly perfumed ber and December. 
flavour: ripe end of September or Grey Gocd-\\ife Pear. A middle- 
beginning of Odlober, continuing good fized, roundifti, brownilh-rcd pear, 
until tlieendcf November. moderately tenderand well-flavruied : 

Swifs Bergamot Pear. A middle- is in eating from the end of Oflober 



fized, roundifh, gieenifh Pear, finely 
ftriped with red, melting and tolerably 
well flavoured : ripe the end of Sep- 
tember, continuing in eating till No- 
vember. 



till December. 

Rouflfcjine Pear, or Long-ftalked, 
late AvU'jir.r.^l .Mufcat, A large, ob- 
long, long-dalked pear, reddifli on tlw 
funny fide, is tender, and of a mufr:/ 



Great Ruflelet Pear. A |arge ob- flavour: in eating In the end of Oc- 

long brown and reddifh pear, fome- tober and part of Ncvember. 

times fpottcd,\ having^a tender rich Mufcat Fleury Pear. A fmallifii 

pulp: ripe middleorendofSeptember. elobular, brownifh-red, Jong/talked 

Brown Beurre, or Beurre de Roy Pear, tender and high-flavoured: in 

Pear; A fine, large, oblonc;, rufTttty, eating from October till December, 

brown and greenifh pear, ve.y melting, Twice flowering Pear-tree. It often 

juicy, and fugary, and is one of the produces blcfTom twice a year, the firft 

fineft pears of the autumn: ripe be- in the fpring, and the fcccnd in au- 



ginnin;; of Oflober, and keeps good till 
December. 

White Beurre Pear. A large, round- 
'lih, top-fhaped, whltifh-yellow pear, 
melting, very juicy and good : lipe 
beginning of Odlober, and keeps till 
November. 



tumn, fois preferved in many gardens 
as a curiofity. 

Other lefs mf-*erial autumnal pears 
,Tre — Pefideri l^ear. — Dean's 'Pear. — 
Vicar's Pear. — Vine Pear.— Autumn 

Rofe Pear. — French Bergarr.or . 

Beurre Beii:amot. — Knave's Pear. — 



Red Beurre Pear. A large, oblong. Burnt Cat Pear. — Pound Pear, very 
reddifh pear, melting and very fine: large. 



rtpe beginning of Oiioher. 

Green Sugar Pear. A middle-fized, 
top-fliapcd, finooth, green pear, full 
of a rich fugary juke ; ripe end of Oc- 
tober, and keeps good all November, 



All the autumn pears (hou!d have 
their full growth on the tree, hut n-»t 
hang till quite ripe, which is the end 
of September and in Ofloher, being 
their fcafon of full growth. 



PEA 



PEA 



Winter pears arrive to full growth 
about the end of Oiftober and in No- 
vember, but do net attain maturity for 
eating until they have lain fome confi- 
'derable time in the houfe, fome a 
month or fix weeks, others two or 
three months or more, before they 
ripen, as obferved below in their de- 
fcriptions, fo that they fucceed one 
another in perfedlion generally from 
about December until May. 

By the winter pears being fo long 
acquiring perfc£lion after gathered 
from the tree, many perfons have 
thought them fit only for culinary 
ufes ; but molt of the following are very 
fine eating pears, after having lain the 
proper time to mellow. 

St. Germain Pear. A large long yel- 
lowifli green, extraordinary fine pear, 
of the melting fugary kind : in eating 
from December until February. 

Chaumontelle Pear. A large oblong 
pear, having one fide purplifh, the 
othrr of a whiti<h-green colour, is 
melting, of a very rich delicious fla- 
vour ; in eating from December until 
March or April. 

Martin Sec, or Dry Martin Pear. 
A large, oblong, ruffety-reddifh pear, 
IS breaking, fomewhat dry, but of a 
fine perfumed flavour: in eating end 
of November, December, and January. 

Colmar Pear. A large fwelling, 
fiat-topped, greenifh -yellow pear, fpot- 
ted with yellow ; is tender and exceed- 
ingly fine flavoured : in eating from 
December till January or February. 

Spanifh Bon Chretien. A large py- 
ramidal purple and yellow pear, having 
many dark fpots on the purple fide; 
is a fine winter pear, ready for eating 
the end of December, continues good 
rear two months. 

Virgoleufe Pear. A large, oblong, 
greenifh - yellow pear, fometimes 
brownifh next the fun, is an excellent 
fruit : in eating from the beginning or 
middle of December until the end of 
January. 

Dauphine Pear, A middle-fized, 
roundifti, top-fhaped, fmooth, yellow- 
jfh-preenpear, havingamelting,fugary, 
mufky pulp: in eating the end of No- 
vember, continuing in perfedJion all 
December and mofl part of January. 

Winter Verte Longue Pear, A 
longifh, green-coloured, fmooth, (pot- 
ted exceeding good pear : in eating the 
end of December and January, A:c, 



Winter Beurre Pear. A fmalllfh, 
oblong, yellowifh, red-fpotted, very 
fine pear ; ready for eating in Decem- 
ber and January. 

Winter Thorn Pear, A large, lonj,* 
pyramidal whitifli-green pear ; is melt- 
ing, and in fine eating from December 
till February, 

Martin Sire, or Lord Martin Pear, 
A large, roundifh, irrcgularly-fwell- 
jng, fmooth pear, red on one fide, the 
other yellow ; is breaking, and of a 
perfumed flavour : in eating in Decem- 
ber andjanuary. 

Winter Bergamot Pear, A middle- 
fized, roundilh, greenifli-yellow pear : 
in eating from the end of November 
until the fpring. 

Hollond's Bergamot. A large, 
round, greenifh pear, having a tender 
rich pulp : in eating from January till 
April. 

Winter Bon Chretien. A very large, 
long pyramidal, yellowifh-green pear, 
having often an uneven furface; is 
breaking, very juicy, remarkably fweet 
and rich flavoured, and often proves 
the befl winter pear in the coliedtion : 
in eating from February till April or 
May. 

German Mufcat Pear, A middle- 
fized, oblong, ruffety-red pear, having 
a melting rich pulp : in eating from 
February till May or longer, 

Eafter Bergamot Pear. A large, 
roundifh, flat-topped, greenifh pear, 
having many rough fpots, is of the 
breaking kind ; and is in eating from 
February till April or May, 

Winter RufTelet Pear, A middle- 
fized, longifh pear, red on one fide, 
the other of a greenifh-yellow, is melt- 
ing and agreeably relifhed : in eating 
in January, March, &c. 

St. Martial Pear, A longifh, ob- 
long, fmooth pear, one fide purple, the 
other yellow ; having a buttery rich 
fiefh : in eating from February till May 
or June. 

Cadillac Pear. A very large, round- 
ifh, red and yellow pear, having a 
hard, four, pulp, but is excellent for 
baking and other culinary purpofes : 
in ufe from November or December 
till May, 

Union Pear, or Uvedale's St. Ger- 
main. A large, long, deep-green pear, 
reddifh on one fide, having a hard, 
four, pulp, but is excellent for baking, 
&c. in perfedion from November or 
Pecerober till May or longer, 



Pli ^ 

r>jjck Pear of Worccflcr, or Pack- 
iflfon's Warden. A remarkably hrge, 
oblong, dufky brown, rough pear, ha- 
ving a hard ^lufkre pulp, but is very 
fine for culinary ufes, from November 
%!1 M<)rch or April. 

Double Flowered Pear. The tree 
produces double flo-.vers fucceeded by 
a large, Hiort, ytllowifh and red pear, 
rather ha: d and auilere ; buc is remark- 
ably fine for baking, fee. 

Other kfs material varieties of win- 
ter pe.vs are known by the following 
ij.Tmss. — Good Lewijj a large, lon^- 
fih pear. — Ambrttte, a large roundifh 
pear. — Thick-ftalked Pear, a very large 
roundilh fruit. — .Amadot, a middls- 
ftzed ohJong j^ar. — St. Auflin, a mid- 
dling obiong pe^r. — Ruffct of Anjou^ 
large roundlfii pear. — CliafTcrvj a large 

oblong pear. Iron-Cii->urcd ^'ear, 

a middlr-fized oblorrj fruit.— Golden 
Winter Pear, a large globular fruit.— 
Villain of Anjou, a large roundifli pear, 

-i Winter Ru.Teier, a middle- fi zed 

Jongifh pear. — Carmelite, a middling 
roundilh pear for kitchen ufes.— — 
Winter Citron-fhaped Pear, for baking. 
-?-Blood Pear, far baking, tec. — Eng- 
li(h Warden, a large ptar for bakiqg 
and other culinary ufes. 

There are many otiier varieties of 
pears of lefs account, both of fammer, 
autumrt, and wiruer kinds, that are 
unnectlTary to infeit here ; and indeed 
it would be almoft impofTible to difcri- 
minate the various forts of hard pears, 
and others of little note, found in the 
orchards and gardens in country villages 
ajkd about farm-houfes, in different 
parts of England, &c. 

But as the varieties defcribed in the 
above three lifts are of known merit, 
and are cultivated in moft of the nur- 
leries for faie, by the narnes here pre- 
fixed to each kind, confining of near 
lixty different fort«, they are more than 
ful^cient to furnift the moil extcnfive 
garden with a copious variety of pears, 
almofl the year round. 

All the varieties of this tree are'hardy 
and will fucceed in any common foil 
of a garden or orchard, both as dwarfs 
for walls and efpaliers, S:c. and in 
flandards of all forts; and in all of 
wliich modes of training they will bear 
plentifully : it is however of impor- 
tance to allot a good wall and efpalier 
for (bme of the choicer kinds, both 
fummer, autumnal, and winter pears, 

Vot. II. 



PEA 

in order both to forward the growth o£ 
the fruit and to improve its Jize,beauty , 
aad flavour : a fouth, eafl, and weJlerlj 
wall arc the proper expofures, and it 
is eligible to i>lant fomeiri each of tljoft 
afpefts, to vary the times of ripenini, 
though moil of the fumn.cr pears wuj 
fucceed very well in almcft. any afpe£t^ 
and if fome are planted alfo againtt a 
north-wall, tliey will ripen later, an4 
continue the fucctirionof anyapprove4 
forts longer in eating; but it is paiii^ 
cularly neceflary to allow all the fine 
forts of winter pears an eaft or welt 
wall, or a well-cxpofed efpaliei, other- 
wife they will not perfeft their fruit 
kindly in unfavourable fs^fwns ; in e«- 
paliers however that are well trained, 
al! the forts of pears attain great pef», 
feftion, and the efpaliers may be ari% 
ranged round the quarters of tlie kit', 
chen-g^rdenj or in any- other frtse 6iu- 
ation. \vhere tlw foil is of liuiiUr 
quality. . . 

' Reni^irking, that thefe trees, both 
againft walls and efpaliers, fhould ge- 
nerajly be allowed a greatde^i of rtjcm 
to fpread, for by having full Ccope ili^y 
will extend their branches mere ihan 
twenty f;et on each fide of the ftem, 
and the whole v.'ill fvpmetimes. form a 
fj)read of forty or fifty feet, with height 
ic proportion. 

Standards of fome. forts of pears are 
alfo naturally of a very Spreading 
j^^rowth, others grovy mor? uprig^it. 

Hovrever, in all thetriethods of train- 
ing thefe trees, it is highly rcquifite jo, 
iJlo'.v them fufficient room to fpread 
to their full extent,, and their branph^ 
fhould be fuffered to e;(tend themfclves 
always at full length; for pear- tre^s 
fliould never be (hortened, except ia- 
the f.rft or fecond year, &c. to ol?-. 
tain a fupply of lateral branches to. 
form a mo.'^e regular fpceading heatjjr 
becaufe as they' always bear iheiif, 
blofTorn and fruit upgn fliort fpurs ari- 
fing from the fides of the branches j, 
firfl, ^lowever, towards the extreroe. 
parts, then by c^egrees all along the 
fides almofl from every eye, that fhort-« 
eiitng would cut away the firfl fruit- 
ful parts, and thus by Hopping their 
progrefi of fliooting in length it would-, 
force out ftrotig flvocts from all the 
eyes, and prevcni; thcij. forming fpurs 
or fruit-buds; but bejo^g trained at 
full length they (hor>t moderately, and 
in tv.'o cr shrse years naturally form 
V fncii 



PEA 

fhort fpurs of from about half an Inch 
to an incli or two long, the fame 
branch and fpurs continuing fruitful a 
great number of year;. 

But it mull be obferved, that pear- 
trees are generally fcyeral years before 
they attain any toleraote bearing (late, 
for the branches feldom begin to form 
fruit-fpurs till they ai c from about two 
or three, to four or five years old ; at 
that age, however, they fometimes be- 
gin to bear, but never any general 
crop till they are eight or ten y?ars old. 

Pear-trees ^re propagated by grafting 
and budding upon any kinds of pear- 
ftocks ; alfo occafionaily upon quince- 
ftocks, and fometimes upon white- 
thorn flocks, but pear-flocks are 
greatly preferable to all others for ge- 
neral ufe. See AppLE-TRtEs, EsPA- 
XiERs, Grafting, Pruning, &:c. 

In the gathering of pears, great re- 
gard fhould be had to the bud which 
Js formed at the bottom of the foot- 
ftalk, for the next year's bloffbms, 
which, by forcing of the pear before it 
be mature, is many times fpoijed ; 
for while the fruit is growing, there is 
always a bud forced by the fide of tlie 
foot-ftalk upon the fame fpur, for the 
next yers fruit j fp that when the 
pears are ripe, if they are gently turned 
iipward, tlie foot-ftalk will readily 
part from the fpur, without injuring 
«of the bud, 

The fcalcn for gathering all fummer 
pears is jufl as thty ripen , for none of 
thefe will remain go€d above a day or 
two after thsy are taken from the tree ; 
jior will miny of the autumn pears 
]<eepgood above ten days or a fortnight, 
after they are gathered. But the win- 
ter fruits (hould hang as long upon the 
trees as thef^afon will permit, for they 
jnuft not receive the froll, which wi}l 
caufe them to rot, and render their 
juices flat and ill tafted; but if the 
weather continue mild until the 
end of Odlober, it will then be a 
good feafon for gathering them in, 
which muft always he done in dry 
weather, and when the treei are per- 
fcftlydry. 

In the doing of this you ought care- 
fully to avoid bruifnig them, therefore 
you fhould have a broad flat bafket to 
lay them in as they are gathered; and 
when they are carried into the Aore- 
room, they fhould be taken out fmgly, 
and each fort laid up in a clofe heap. 



PP A 

on a dry place, in order to fweat» 
where they may remain for ten days or 
a fortnight, > unng which time tha 
windows fhould Se open to admit the 
air, in order to carry cfF all tl»e moif* 
ture which is pcrfpired from thefruit; 
alter this, the pciits (hould be taken 
fingly, and wjptd dr> with a woollen 
cloth, and then packed up in clofe 
bafket', obfervin^ to put fome wheats 
flr4w in the bortoms and round the 
fides of the baflcet.s, to prevent their 
bruifing agamll the bafkets. And if 
fome thick foft paper is laid double or 
treble all round thp bafket, between 
the llraw and the pears, this will pre- 
ventthe pears fiomirtHiking the mully 
tdlle which is commi'nicaied to rhcm 
by the flr^iw, when they are contlgu- 
ous ; which taOe olten penetrates 
th ough the Jkui f^p flrongly, that when 
the fruit is par§d t'le talle will remain. 
You mould alfo ohferve to pyt but one 
fort of fruit mto a >)afket, l«(l by their 
different fermentations they fhould rot 
each other } hut if ycu have enough of 
one fort to fill a balket which holds 
two or three bufliels, it will le ftill 
better. After you have filled the baf- 
kets, you muft cover them over with 
wheat-ftraw very clofe, firll laying a 
covering of paper two or three times 
double over the fruit, and faften ihera 
down J then place thefe balkets in a 
clofe room, where they may be kept 
dry and from froft j but the lefs air is 
let into the room, the better the fruit 
will keep. It will be very necefTary 
to fix a label to each bafket, denoting 
the fort of fruit therein contained, 
%yhich will fave the trouble of opening 
them, whenever you want to know 
the forts of fruit ; befides, they ought 
not to be opened before their leafon to 
be eaten, for the ofcner they are opened 
and e3(pofed to the air, thf worfe they 
will keep. We doubt not but this 
will be objefted to by many, who ima- 
gine fruit cannot be laid too thin ; for 
which reafon they make fhelves to dif- 
pofe them fingly upon, and are very 
fond of admitting lre(^ air, whenever 
the weather is mild, fuppofing it very 
neceflary to preferve the fruit ; but the 
contrary of this is found true, by thofe 
perfons who have large ftocks of fruit 
liid up in their florehoufes in London, 
which remain clofely ftjut up for fe- 
veral months, in the manner before re. 
iated j and when th»fe are opened, the 



PEA 



PEA 



fruit Is always found plumper and 
founder than any oi thofr fruits which 
were preferved Tingly upon fhelves, 
V^hofe (Icins are always fhrivclled and 
dry. For (as Mr. Roylc obferves) the 
•ir is the caufc of putrefa^ion j and, 
in ordef to prove this, that honourable 
gentleman put fruits of feveral kinds 
into glalfes where the air was ex- 
hau(ted, in which places they remained 
found for feveral months, but, upon 
bein expofed to the air, rotted in a 
very fhort time, which plainly (hews 
the abfurdity of the common method 
now ufed to preferve fruit. 

Earth - Nut PrA, See E-verlaJiln^ 

HtartPzji, [Card'wfpermumJ] A plant 
of which there are two fpccies growing 
naturally in both the Indies, where 
they climb up the Ihrubs that crow 
near them; they are tender annuals, 
and if cultivated in England, mult be 
raifed in a hot-bed. 

PIGEON-PEA [Cytijus, Cayan.] A 
fpecies of Cytifus growing in the Ame- 
rican lilands, and cannot be preferved 
in England but in a Aove. 

PEARL-ASHES. A fait made from 
the afhes of wood, 

PEARL-BARLEY, [Hord^m Per.'a- 
tum.'j Barley prepared by grinding the 
Ihelled barley into little round grains. 
C_ PEAT.A5HES, are a mort excel- 

■Z.y lent manure for young clover and 
grafs, vetches, and wheat fown dry 
in the fpring of the year. They fhould 
be kept dry and entirely free from wet. 
The following are the obfcrvatlons of 
a judicious farmer : 

" Peat is found in mort low grounds 
that lie betwixt hills, efpecially if tim- 
ber has formerly rtood on the fpot. It 
lies at various depths, being often near 
the furface, and fcmetimes fix, eight, 
or ten feet deep, having a ftrattim 
of black moory earth over it, fuch as 
is the foil of many of our low mea- 
dows near the banks of rivers : it 
fometimes eren lies under a bed of 
gravel. 

" Peat may be burnt, for the fake 
of procuring its afhes for manure all 
the fummer feafon : as foon as it is 
dug, fome of it is mixed in a heap re- 
gularly difpofed with faggot wood, or 
other ready burning fuel : after a lay. 
or or two of it mixed in this manner, 

f>eat alone is piled up to compleat the 
leap. A heap will confift of from one 
iiUodred to a tIiouf«nd lo:id8. 



" After fetting fire to It at a proper 
place, before prepared for the purpofe 
it is watcited in the burning, and the 
great art is to keep in as much of the 
fmoke as polTible, provided that as 
much vent is left as will nourlfli and 
feed the fire. 

" Whenever a crack appears, out of 
which the fmoke efcapes, the labourer 
jn that place lays on more peat ; and 
if the fire flackens too much within, 
which may eafily be known by the 
heat on theoutfide, the workman muft 
run a Orong pole into the heap in as 
many places as is neceflary to fupply 
it with a quantity of frefh air. When 
managed in this manner, the work 
goes on at it Ihould do. It is to be 
noticed, that when once the fire is 
well kindled, the heavieft rain does it 
no harm whilft it is burning. 

'* Having pocured a fufficient quan- 
tity of afhes, the farmer's next care 
fliould be to apply them properly to 
ufe J and to do this, he mull be made 
well acquainted with the nature of the 
manure he is to lay on his land. 

" All afties are of a hot, fi.ery, cauf- 
tic nature ; they muft therefore be ufed 
vtfith caution. With refpeft to peat- 
afhes, almoft the only danger proceeds 
from laying them on in too great quan- 
tities at Improper feafons. 

<• Nothing can be better than peat- 
afhes for drefling low damp meadows, 
laying to the quantity of from fifteen 
to twenty Winchefter buftiels on an 
acre : it is beft to fow them by hand, 
as they will then be more regularly 
fpread. 

" This work fhould be done in Janu- 
ary or February at lateft, that the afh- 
es may be wafhcd irt towards the roots 
of the grafs by the firft rains that fall 
in the fpring. 

" If they were fpread more forward 
in the year, and a fpeedy rain fhould 
not fucceed, being hot in their nature, 
they would be apt to burn up the grafs, 
inftead of doing it any fervice, 

" It is to be remembered, that ths 
damper and fliffer the foil, the more 
peat-sfhes fliould be laid on it; but 
in grafs lands the quantity fliould ne- 
ver exceed thirty Winchefter bufhels, 
ar.d on light warm lands lefs than half 
that quantity is fully fufficient. 

" On wheat crop* thefe afhes are of 

the greateft fervice, but they mufl be 

ufed with th« utmoft diTcretion. Werft 

y X they 



PEA 



PEL 



tvcry other ccnfideration, the folc 
view of IcfTening his eXpences will, 
ic is imisined, fufficiently induce him 
to be attentive to thi^ particuUr. 

" When peat is burnt for the fake 
of its allies in fummer time, it is ne- 
teflary that fome care ihculd be taken 
to defend them from the too powerful 
influence of the fun, air, dews, rains, 
iVc. or great part of tlieir virtue would 
be exhaled and exhaulled. If the quan- 
tity of alhesprocuied is not very great, 
they may be eafily put under cover in 
a barn, cart-lodge, or hovel ; but large 
quantities muft neceffarily, to avoid 
expence, be kept abroad j and when 
this is cafe, they fhould be ordered as 
follows. 

" A dry fpot of ground muft be 
choCsn ; and on this the aflies are to 
be laid in a large heap, as near as pof- 
Tible in the form of a cone ftanding on 
its bafe, the top as (harp pointed as 
pofTihle: when this is done, let the 
whole be covered thinly over with a 
coat of foil, to defend the heap from 
the weather: the circumjacent earth, 
provided it is not too light and crumb- 
ly, will always ferve for this purpofe. 
" When thus guarded, the heap may 
very fafely be left till January or 
February, when it is in general the 
feafop for fpreading it '. but, before it 
is ufed.it is always belt to fift the aflies, 
that the cinders, fioiies, and half burnt 
turf, may be feparated from them. 

" This may, perchance, by many b« 
efteemed an unnecefTary trouble; but 
experience, which is the bert guide, 
has convinced me, that by this meani 
I can better afcertain the quantity that 
ought to be fown on the feveral forts 
of land ; for tlie fmall powdered afhes, 
being equal in quality, are of courfe 
equal in effcdt; whereas, when thtr& 
has been any other mixture with them, 
the effeft has often been greater or lefs 
than 1 could have wiflied. Thus, 
when I mer.ticr the number of bufhels 
1 drew on aii ...re, it is always to be 
unHerltood of fifted afhes : fhould any 
farmer be inclined to try them rough 
as they are firft produced after burn- 
ing, the quantity to be allowed for an 
acre muft be more in proportion to the 
mixtureof other matter that is in them. 
" Thefe peat-afhes are almoft, as I 
liave already cbferved, a general ma- 
nure fuited to tvnyfoil. On cold clay 
Xbey warm the too compaft particles, 



difpofe it to ferment, and of conrfe fee* 
tilize, and, in fine, not only afTill it in 
difclofing and difpenfing its great ve- 
getative powers, bitt alfo bring to iu 
aid a confiderahle proportion of ready 
prepared aliment for plants. 

" On light lands thcfe afhes have a 
ditierent effeft : here the pores are too 
large to be affeded, or farther feparated 
by ti:e falts or fulphur contained in 
them; but, being clofely attaehod to 
the furfaces of the large particles, of 
which this earth is generally coriipofed, 
this manure difpofes them, by means 
of its falts, to attradl the moifture 
contained in the air; by this opera-, 
tion, the plants, which grow on thefe 
porous foils, are prevented from being 
fcorched up and burnt ; and if they 
want, which they generally do, more 
nourirtimertt thjfri the land is of itfeif 
capable of affording, this is readily 
and abundantly fupplied by this ufefut 
manure. 

•' In large farms it is very ufual to 
4s fee all the home-fields rich and well" 
mended by the yard-dung, Sec. where- 
as the more diftant lands are generally 
poor, Impoverifhed, and out of heart, 
for want of proper manure behig ap- 
plied in time. 

" Whilft the farmers d'epend almoft 
entirely on the yard-dung, this cannot 
fail being the cafe ; for dung is of very 
heavy carriage : they are willing, there- 
fore, to drop it as near home at 
pofllble, being in tlus way able to do 
a great deal more work in the fame 
fpace of time r but would they once 
try the virtue of pcat-afhes, all theif 
lands might be alike.improved, though 
at a very confiderable diftance front 
the home-ftal! ; for fo few of them are 
required, and tliey are fo light of car- 
riage, that a fingle tumbril will hold 
as mriy as ouglu, in mof\ cafes, ta 
be laid on two acres of land ; by which 
means, when thefe alhes ate ufcd as a 
drefTmg for the diltant fields, itjcorts 
the farmer lefs in carriage than does 
that of the ftable-dung for his home- 
fields." 

FECK.. A meafure containing twro 
gallons, or S quarts. 

FELLITORY, oftki J^all, [Pjrieu- 
r;«,] This is a fmall plant, growing 
upon old wall? ; of an herbaceous, fub- 
faline tafte, without any fmell. It is 
one of the five emollient herbs, and in 
this intention i$ occafionaliy mad« 

ui'e 



PEN 



PEN 



Mfe of. It is an infcredlent in (he ne* 
phriiic deccxftion cf the E^inbuTgh 
pharmacoposia. The expreiTed juice 
has been given in the dofc cf three 
ounces as a diuretic. 

Pellitout ;/ Spain, [ Pyrahrum.j 
This plant, though a native of the 
warm climates, bears the ordinary 
winters of this ; and often flowers 
fucceflfively, from Chriftmas to May ; 
the roots aifo grow larger with us than 
thofe which the (hops are ufually fup- 
plied with from abroad. 

Pellicory root has no fenfible fmeli ; 
Its tafle is very hot and acrid, but Icfs 
fo thj that of arum or dracunculus : 
the juice exprefled from It has icarce 
any acrimony, nor is the root itfelf fo 
pungent .vhen irefti as after it has been 
dried. Water, affiited by heat, ex- 
tracts fonie f^lare of its tafte, reflified 
fpirit the whole; neither of them ele- 
vate any thing in dirtiliation. The 
principal ufe ©f pyrethrum in thepre- 
iient practice is as a malticatory, for 
promoting the falival flux, and evacu. 
ating vifcid humours from the head 
and neighbouring parts ; by this means 
it often relieves the tooth-ach, fome 
kinds of pains of the head, and lethar- 
gic complaints. 

P£LT. By this name Js called the 
icid body of any fovsl an hawk hath 
killed. 

PELT.WOOL. Is the wool pulled 
eff the llcin or pelt of any dead fheep, 

PENNY-EARTH, A teim uftd 
by the farmers for a hard, loamy, or 
fandy earth, with a very large quantity 
of fea Ihelis intermixed in it j fome of 
which being round aad flat, and in 
fome meafure refembling pieces of 
money, have occafiorYedthe earth's be- 
ing called by this name. It is an earth 
pot eafily dog, but is wfually under- 
mined with pickaxes, and then falls 
'ui large lumps ; which, with the frofts, 
break to pieces, and leave the Shells 
loofe. It is prepared by breaking and 
mixing well with water, and then 
nr.akes very de(irable floors. The Jer- 
fey combers comb-pots are alfo made 
of it, and the fides and roof* of ovens 
are plaiflered with it j and, being 
rightly managed, it combines into a 
flower almof^ as itrong as plaiiler of 
Paris, 

PENGUIN, [Karatas.} Wild ana- 
nas. This plant is very common in 
:Le Weft-Indie*^ where the juice of its 



fruJt is often put Into punch, being al 
a (harp acid flavour. There is alfo a 
wine made of the juice of this fruit, 
which is very lUong, but it will not 
keep good Ion;, fo is only for pie- 
fent ufe. This wine is very intoxica- 
ting, and heats the blood, therefoic 
fliould be drank vtry fparingly. 

In England this plant is prefervcd 
as a curioficy, for the fruit feldom ar- 
rives to any degree of pcrleflion for 
ufe in this co'jntry, though it often pro- 
duces fruit in England, whicli has ri- 
pened pretty well ; but if it were to 
ripen as thoroughly here as in its na- 
tive country, it will be little valued on 
account of its great aufterity, which 
will often take the (kin off from the 
mouths and throats of thofc peopls 
who eat it incautioufly. 

Thjs plant is propagated by feeds, 
for though there are often fuckers fent 
forth from tl.e old plants, yet they 
come out from between the leaves, and 
are fo long, flender, and ill-fhapen, 
that if tl-.ey are planted thty ftldom 
make regular plants, Thefe ftedi 
Ihould be fown early in the fpring in 
ftnall pots, and [lunged into a hot- bed 
of tanners bark, v.hsre the plants will 
come np in fix weeks. When ths 
plants are Arong enough to tranfplant, 
they fhould be carefully taken vp,e^ch. 
planted intoafcparate pot, and plunged 
into the hot-bed again j wiien the 
plants have taken new root, they 
fhould have air and water in proper- 
tion to the warmth ot the feafon. In 
this bed the plants may remain tiU 
WichaeJmas, then they (houid be re- 
moved into the (>cve and plunged into 
the bark-bed, where they (houid be 
treated in ike fame manner as the 
Anginas. 

The leaves of this plant are ftrongly 
armed wit!> crooked fpines, which ren- 
der it very troublefome to ftiift or 
handle them ; for the fpines catch hold 
of whatever approaches them by their 
crooked form, being fome bent one 
way, and others the reverfe, fo that 
they catch both ways, and tear the (kin 
or clothes of the perfons v.ho handle 
them, where there is not the greatell 
care taken to avoid them. 

PEK NY-ROYAL, iPulegjum.^ 
Tills plant grows fpontaneoufly in f«- 
veral parts of England upon moid 
commons, and in watery places ; trail- 
ing upoa the ground, and (Irikinj 
roott 



p i: p 



PEP 



roots at tlie joints. Otir markets have 
been for foine time fupplied vvitli a 
garden fort, which is larger than the 
other, and grows upright : this is called 
by Mr. Y) :Aq fukg'ium erccium. 

Pennyroyal is a warm, pungent lierb, 
cf the aromatic kind, fimilar to mint, 
but more acrid and lefs agreeable j it 
bas long been held in great elteem, and 
rot undefervediy, as an aperient, and 
deoblirutnt, particularly in hyltcric 
complaints, and fupprefTions of the 
uterljie purgations. For thcTe p\irpofes 
the diftilled water is generally made 
ufe of, or what is of equal efficacy, an 
infufion of the leaves. It is obferve- 
able, that both water and redified 
fpirit extract the virtues of tliis herb 
by infufion, and likewife elevate great- 
el!- part of them in dilliilation. 

In the ftiops arc kept a fimple and. 
fpirituous water and efTeniial oil of the 
plantj this herb is ufed alfo ;•* the 
compound vr.lerian water and troches 
of myrrh, and its fimple water for 
making rhe lac ammoniac and the 
camphorated emuHjpn. 

Hartl P E X N V R y A L, [Pu!(gium 

^••r.7»w.] This fpecies is me;t with, 
though not very often, in our gardens. 
Jt is fomewhat ftron^er, yet rather 
more agreeable, than the foregoing, 
both In taue and fmelJ. 

flJarpi Ps N .V" Y R Y >. I, , .WatCr K&'. 

vc)-wort. 

PEONY", iPaonia.'} Tfje' fpecies are 
5.The nrjale. c.The fe'rnple. 3. The fo- 
reign Peony. 4. The Portugal Peony. 
1^, Tartarian Peony. They are r.l] an- 
nual in ftallc, and perennia] in root; 
their propagation is esfy by dividing 
the roots in Auguft or September, 
• PEPPER, [Fij>cr.] The pepper 
jilant is a fiinib whofe root is fmall, 
ftbrons, and flexible; it rifes into a 
jVem, which ret^cires a tree or a, prop 
t6 fuppcrt it. Its >vood has the fam^ 
fort of knots as the vine; and when it 
is dry, it exad^ly leferr.bles the vine- 
branch. The ieayesj which have a 
ftrcng fmell and pungent taf^e, ar^e of 
an oval /hape; but they diminifli to- 
wards the extremity, and terminate 
'jn a point. From the fJowe.--bcds, 
whicli are white, and are Ibmetimes 
placed in the middle, and fometimcv 
at the extremity of the branches, are 
produced fmall berries refembling 
ihofe of the currant-tree. Each of 
thefe conuins between iwentj- & tin'r'y 



coins of pepper; tliey are commonly 
gathered m October, and cx|>ofed to 
ths fun fcven or eight days, Ttie fruit, 
which was green at firfl, and aficr- 
wards red, wlien (tripped of its co- 
vering, alfumes the appearance it has 
when wc fee it. The largert, licavicfl, 
and leaft Ihrivtlled, is the befi, 

The pepper-plant fiouriflie; In the 
iflandi of Java, Sumatra, and Ceylon, 
and mere particularly on the Malabar 
coaft. It is not fown, but planted; 
and great nicety is required in thq 
ciiolce of the fnoots. It produc^^ 
no- fruit till the end of three years; 
but bears fo plentifully the three fuc-: 
ceeding years, that fomc plants yield 
between fix and feven pounds of pep- 
per. The bark tli.en begins to flirink, 
ai^.d the fhrub declines fo faft, that in 
twelve years time it ceafes bearing. 

The culture of pepper is not diffi- 
cult; it is fufficient to plant it in a 
rich foil, and carefully to pull up th« 
weeds that grow in great abundance) 
round its roots, efpecially the three firft 
years. As the fun is highly necelTary 
to the growth of the pepper plants 
when it is ready to bear, the trees 
that fuppoitit niuft be lopped, to pre- 
vent their fliade freoa injuring the 
fruit. When the feafon is over, it is 
piaper to cjop the head of t!ie plant. 
Witlioiit this precaution, there would 
^)e too njijch wood, and little fruit, 
■ if/B^PEPPER, [Pi^CfjjLsii^tw.] This 
h the fruit of a plant gi owing alfo in, 
tlje Eaft. Indies. It is of a Cjjiodrica! 
figure, about an inch and a half in 
length; the external futfacc appears. 
compoAd of numerous minute grains 
difpofed round the fruit in a kind pf 
f|5iral direftion. 

yaiw'ua PippEK. This is the pro- 
duce of our own plantations ; it is tlK 
fruit of a large tree, growing fponta- 
neouiSy in the mountainous parts of 
Jamaica, called by Sir Hans iloan, 
rtyriui aricnj, aramoti^a, foiiit laurinis. 
The fmell of thisfpice refenibles a mix- 
ture cf cinnamon, clove* and nutmegs : 
its tade approaches 'to that of cloves. 
Of a mixture of the three foregoing ; 
vvhence it has leceivcd the name of «,'/- 
f/>:c!. The fiiops have been for fume 
time accu Homed to employ tiiis aro- 
matic as a fuccedaneuni to the more 
coftly fpices, and from them it has 
been introduced into our hofpitals : 
the Lojiion collsge have given it a 
place 



PER 

place in their hte difpenfatory, and 
direfl a limple water to be di billed 
from it, which pofTeflTes th.- flavour of 
the pimento in great perfsflion. It 
yields a large quantity of picafant ef- 
fcntial oil, which finks in water; tliis 
oil is recommended in the Edinburgh 
pharmacopoeia, RtflitieH fpirit extrafts 
its pungency and flavour, and elevates 
nothing in diftillation. 

Guinea PtffZR. Capficum. 

Ji-'^n Pevper, [5r-/.7m acre.] This 
plant grows very common upon old 
walls, in all parts of En,i<Iand. 

fV.itfr P F p p I R . Stt Birir.g Arfmart. 

Poorrr.ani PtPft-V.,! c t\- i 
~, ' '> S=c Dittander. 

Pepper WORT, J 

PEPPERMINT, [Mertka f>ipcrls.} 
This fpecies has been lately introduced 
into praftice, and received for the firft 
time in our prefent pharmacopoeia : 
very few of the botanical or medical 
writers make mention of it ; it grows 
wild in fomc parts of F.nghnd,in mriil 
watery places, hut is much lefs com- 
mon than the other forts. The leaves 
have a more penetrating fmell than any 
of the other miiKs, and a much 
warmer, pungent, glowing taffe like 
pepper, finkint; h> it weie into the 
tongue. The principal ufe of this 
herb is in flatulent ciiolics, languors, 
and other like diforders : it feems to 
aft as foon as taken, and extends it ef- 
feft^ through the whole fyftem, in- 
ftantly communicating a glowing 
warmth. Water extrafts the whole 
of the pungency of this herb by infu- 
fion, and elevates it in diflillation. 

PERENNIAL, [Pcrennis] Peren- 
nial, or everlafling jslants ; plants that 
are perpetuated by the roots, that is, 
whether their leaves and flalks decay 
annually in winter, or always remain, 
provided the roots of feveral years du- 
ration, they are ftill perennial plants. 
All plants, therefore, with abiding 
roots, both of the herbaceous tribe in 
. general, and of|thefhrub and tree kinds, 
are perennials ; thoui^h in the general 
acceptation of the word perennial, it 
is moft commonly applied to heroace- 
ous vegetables with durable roots, more 
efpecially thofe of the flowery kind, 
^ . which among the gardeners are ccm- 
1 J monly called fimple perennials, parti- 
r^- Cularly the fibrous-rooted tribe; but it 
is equally applicable to fibrous, tube- 
rous, and bulbous-rooted plants, 
whofe roots are of feveral years dura- 
^i^ oL. II. 



PER 

tion : llkewlfc all flirubs and frees o 
every denomination, as having ab.din^ 
roots, are alfo perennial plants. 
_ Perennial plants confilt both of de- 
ciduous and ever-green kinds; ihofe 
that cafl their leaves ice. in winter 
are termed deciduous perennials, and 
thofe which retain their leaves ever- 
greens. 

Of the herbaceous perennials, how- 
tv'.T, both of the fibrous-rooted tribe, 
tuberous and bulbous-rooted kinds, 
far the greater part have annual ftalks, 
rlfing in fpring and decay in winter j 
and a great many lofc their leaves en- 
tirely alfo in that feafon, fuch as the 
perennial fun-flower, afters, [and nu- 
merous other forts ; and many forts re- 
tain their leaves all the year, but not 
their Ualks, exemplified in theauricula, 
polyantl-.us, feme campa-.ul^s, pinks, 
carnations, and many others. 

Great number of the herbaceous 
perennials multiply exceedingly by off- ' 
fets of the root, by which they are 
propagated in great abundance. 

All the tree andfhrub perennials are 
durable both inroot, Aem, and branch ; 
but all renc'v their leaves annually, 
even the ever-green kinds, although 
they aie in leaf the year round, yec 
they put forth new leaves every year, 
to which the old ones gradually give 
place. 

PERIWINKLE, [Virca.} There are 
three pecies, the narroyv, the broad- 
leaved, and the oval ; they are eafily 
propagated by their trailing flalks, 
which put out rc-ots freely. 

PERRY. A vinous liquor made of 
pears, as cyder is made of apples. Set 
Cyder, The befl pears forperry, or 
at leafl the forts which have been 
hitherto deemed the fitteft for making 
tliis liqour, are fo excefTwely tart and 
harlh, that no mortal can think of eat- 
ing them as fruit; for even hungry 
fwine will not eat them, nay, liar, ly 
fo much as fmell to them. Of thtfc 
the Bofbury pear, the Bareland pe r, 
and the horfe pear, are the mcft 
efteemed for perry in Worcefhrfliiie, 
and the fquafh pear, as it is called, in 
Glocefterfhire; in both which coimties, 
as well as in feme of the adjacent parts, 
they are planted in the hedge-rows and 
mofl ccmrrton fields. 

Theie is this advantat^e attending 

pear trees, that they will thrive on land 

where apples will not fo much as live, 

7. and 



P H Y 



PHY 



and that fome of tlicmgrow to fuch a Tlie Hofe is to be made larger or 

lize, that a finale pear tree, particu- fmaller, as the horfc is larger and 

larly r>t the Bolbury and tlie fquafh coarfer fed, or finer limb'd, and nia- 

kind, lias freq tntly been i<no\vii to na?;ed more delicately. There is as 

yield, in one fcafon, from one to four much difRrence betsvcen theconllitu- 

hog(heads of perry. Tiie Bofbury tion of a cart-horfu and a racer, as be- 

pear is thought to yield tlie moft laOing tween a drayman and a perfon of qua- 

and mod vinous liquoi. The John lity ; and they mult in all refpcfls be 

pear, the Harpy pear, tlie Drake pear, treated accordingly, not only in the 

the Mary ptar, the Lullum pear, and flrength of the dofe, but in themanage- 



fever~l others of tlie harflielt kinds, are 
cfteemea tlie belt for perry, but the red- 
der or more tavvney they are, the more 
they are preferred. Fears, as well as 
apples, rtiould be full before they are 
ground. 

PERUVIAN BARK. SeeEARK. 

ST. PETER's-WORK, {Afcyium.'] 
This plant has a perennial root with 
an annual (lalk j it is of little ufc or 
beauty. y, 

PETTYWHIN. Furze. ^//////^>tf. 

PHEASAN P's EYE, \_Ador.h.'] See 
Adonie. " 

PHYSIC for a Horfe. There are a 
great variety of occafions on which 
this creature mav want purging, and 
many forts of phyfic may anfwer the 



ment afterwards: for wliat fuits one 

will be quite improper for the other. 

2. A Purge with Jalap. 

Take powder of aloes an ounce, 

powder of jalap a quarter of an 

ounce, and powdered ginger a 

dram : mix all thefe up with two 

ounces of frefh butter, and make 

the whole into a couple of balls, 

or more ; greafe them on the out- 

fide, and give them to the horfe 

with fome warm ale afterwards. 

Thefe are two common receipts, but 

they are often ill proportioned in the 

quantities ; fomething of this kind 

ftands under the name of a purge for 

horfes in moft books that treat of 

thefe things ; but the quantity of the 



purpofe J but before we come to the annifeeds is too great, in the common 

method of preparing any of thtfe, it diredlions for the firft ; and this will 

will be neci-lTary to give the farmer make a horfe fick afterwards ; and to 

proper direflions concerning the ufe of the other there are commonly added 

fuch medicines. A horfe mult be pre- ufelefs ingredients, Thefe are ap- 

pared for a purge the day before it is proved proportions, and they will an- 

given him, or it will take very little fwer almoft every occafion there can be 

efFeft ; and then it will operate more for a horfe's being phyficked in this 

cr lefs, according to the management way. 

of him during the time. Let the balls and the beer be given 

The day before a horfe is to be him early in the morning, and let him 

purged, give him a good quantity of then be rid out gently for a quarter of 

water with fcalded bran in it, and let an hour. Then bring him cool in, and 

him have it warm. Keep him quiet, let him be fet up two hours without 

and the next morning, before he has food. 

any thing to eat, give him the purge. After this time give him a fmall 

Any one of tlic following will anfwer quantity of good hay, and a quarter of 

the common purpofes, with little an hour after that fome warm water, 

charge. An hour after this give him foms 

I. A Purgeiu'ith Alict. fcalded bran. He will purge kindly 

Take an ounce and a quarter of after this manner of management ; 

horfe-aloes beaten to powder, and and after this he fliould be rid out a 



a quarter of an ounce of cream 
of tartar, and half an ounce of 
powder of annifeeds, work this 
up into a confiftence, and roll it 
round into two balls. Rub thefe 
over with butter, and give them 
to the horfe ; they will, by means 



little again ; then when he is brought 
in, he fhould have fome bran and wa- 
ter warm, with but a fmall quantity 
of the water. Then let him be rid out 
again \ in this manner a horfe is to be 
treated with his purge, and, in gene- 
ral, it will be eafy to make him work 
of being greafed, flip down very more or lefs at pieafure. by giving him 
freely; and after them give him more or lefsexercife, and more or left 
a horn of fmall beer made warm, of the bran and water. 

if 



PHY 



P 1 G 



l( the purge has been too violsnt, 

and will not itop, the following al\rin- 

genc drink will always (top it. 

j^n /ifirlngcKl Drink 

Boil three pints of Hale beer, and 

fome pieces of cruft of brown 

bread : to this put an ounce of 

whiting, and a quarter ot an 

ounce ol diafcordium, made with- 

not honey ; if this does not Hop it 

In four or five hours, give the fame 

quantity ot whiting and double the 

quantity ofdiafcordium in only one 

pint of the beer and bread. This 

will make him altogether quiei 

and eafv , and he will be in his 

body as ufual. 

For a CclJ. 
This is a diforder fowell underftood, 
that it cannot be miftaken, nor does 
it need any explanation. 

Boil in a quart of ale three ounces 
of frelh liquorice root, beat very 
fine into threads. Strain the li- 
quor off, prefllng it hard, and add 
to it three drams of elecampane 
powdtr, one dram of powder of 
annifeeds, a quarter of a pint of 
oil, and a quarter of a pound of 
honey ; mix all well, and give it 
warm. If it does not take effedt 
the firft time, let it be repeated 
three or four times, and it fel- 
dom fails. 
Baih for a Cough cf long Jianding. 
Put into a large bo%\l fix pounds of 
wheat meal, mix with it two 
ounces of powder of annifeeds, 
cummin-feed one ounce, linfeed 
three ounces, fenugreek-fccd one 
ounce and a half; liir thefe well 
about, then mix half a pound of 
liquorice powder, and a quarter 
of a pound of flour of brimftone : 
add thefeto the left. Laitly, add 
bay-berries and Juniper-berries, 
powdered, three ounces of each, 
and the fame quantity of powder 
of elecampane. 
When all arc well flirred and mixed 
together, break fix eggs, throw 
away the whites, beat up the 
yolks with two quarts of moun- 
tain wine. Add to this a pound 
and a half of honey and a pint of 
fallad oil. Mix all thefe perfedly 
well together; then bring in tlie 
powder, and work the whole to a 
pafte. If this fhould be too ftlff, 
a little more wine mull be added 3 



and. If too foft, fome flour miift 
be put in, rill the whoie be of 
fiich a conlilience that it willcon- 
venitntly roll into hails. 

Thefc arc to be made of the bigoefs 
of a hen's egg, but round. This rolling 
them up is only lor the convenience of 
keeping; when they are to be ufed, 
thty arc to be dilfolved. Two is the 
proper quantity for a dofe, and they 
are to be melted in the creature's wa- 
ter, moi;ning and evening, for fifteen 
days. ' I 

1'hysic NUT. See Ph\f.c'iivT. 

PIGEON- It is a great recommen- 
dation ot any creature to the farmer, 
that it v\ill be kept at fmall expence, 
and this is the cafe with the pigeon, 
which he fhouid keep; for there arc 
fome kinds that require a great deal of 
food and charge : the proper pigeon for 
the dovecoat, which is die only kind 
he is to regard, is able the greatelt part 
of the year to provide for itfelf; and 
when it requires his alTiilance, the food 
is not of any dear kind. 

There are at this time many kinds 
of pigeons kept in England, by people 
fond of curiofity, and it has become a 
fludy to procure and raife new kinds 
among thofe who are called pigeon- 
fanciers, as much as to get from 
abroad, or raife fiom feed, new kinds 
of carnations or auriculas among the 
florifts. But with this the iiiduflrious 
hufbandman has nothing to do. He 
is to keep pigeons for their value, not 
their beauty ; and he is to confider 
which may be kept with moft eafe, 
which is in his way one of the greatest 
Ci recommendations to any thing. 

Not to enter into the nice diflinfti- 
ons of the kinds which are of late years 
become endlefs and innumerable, we 
may fay in general that there are two 
forts; the tame, and dovecoat pigeon. 
The tame pigeon is valued not only for 
beauty, but for the largenefs of its 
body ; the common pigeon, which is 
tlie kind ufually kept in dovecoats, and 
thence called the dovecoat pigeon, is 
fmalier, and lefs beautiful. 

The tame kind generally have but 
two young ones at a brood ; but they 
make fome amends for the fmallnefs of 
the number by the frequency of their 
hatching; for, if well fed and tended, 
they will haveyogng ones every monrh. 

For the choice of thefe the beauty is 

generally moft regarded j but there 

Z % fhou/d 



PIG 



P I G 



fliould be care taken to pair them well, 
and this is tlie more worth while be- 
caufe they are not apt to feperate 
af:ervvaids. 

They muft be kept clean, for they 
hate dirt, thoue;!i they make a great 
deal of it. But their food is fo dear, 
that few but thofe who know very well 
how to manage them care to meddle 
with tl en). Their hc(t lood is tares 
or whiie peafe, and they ftiould have 
fctfide this fome gravel fcattcred about, 
and clean '.vater at all times : and a 
great deal of care mull be taken lo pre- 
lerve them from vetmin, and their 
eggs from thelfarling- and other birds, 
which always haunt tiie places where 
they are kept, in order to fuck tiiem. 

In order to the ptrfc ft thriving of 
thefe pigeons, it will be proper, befide 
their food, gravel, and water, always 
to let there be fonrie fait, clay, or fome 
other thing with fea fait in it, for them 
to peck at their pleafure 

We have faid thus much with re- 
fpeft to the management of the tame 
pigeon, for the information of fuch as 
may chufe to breed them, and have not 
had opportunities of feeing it donej 
and it w ill be proper to add here, that 
although the expence and trouble they 
occafion, be more than is worth the 
hufbandman's while in general to give 
himfelf J yet there i; this advantage, 
that their dung is richer than tiiat of 
the common pigeon as a manure. 

After this fhort account of the tame, 
we come to the confideration and ma- 
nagement of the common or dovecoat 
pigeon, which is a fubj eft that de- 
mands, and deferves the hufbandman's 
utmoft regard. 

The keeping of pigeons is a great 
advantage to every farmer that may do 
it; and they bring in a great profit for 
a very fmall expence in all places j but 
they thrive beft in open countries, be- 
caufe there is ufually mofl; corn there, 
and they feed with lefs danger, the 
hedges in enclofed places flieltering 
people while they (hoot them. 

There are fome counties where the 
hufbandmen fow great quantities of 
liorfe beans and crey peafe, and in 
thefe particularly the pigeons feed to a 
great advantage. Thefe forts of pulfe 
are fowed earlier than other kinds of 
grain ; and their early feeding upon 
them makes them healthful and ftout 
At thofe times, and is an occafion of 



their breeding earlier than they do elfc- 
where. which is a confiderationof 
great importance. 

The conimi n blue pigeon is properly 
the dovecoat breed j and it ha ihe ad- 
vantage of many other kinds, in that it 
is haidier, and will live in the word 
winters. 

If it be too frinall for the farmer's 
purpofe, he may mend the breed by 
putting in a few tame pigeons of the 
molt comm< n kind, and the leafl con- 
fpicui-iub in their coif urs, that the reft 
niay the better take to them by finding 
them more like themftives ; this, how- 
ever, ia to he done with caution, and 
never without a due confideration ; for 
though the bignefs of a pigeon's body 
is a plain advantage, yet it is very -^'ejl 
knciwn in the kinds in general, that the 
fmalleft bodyed are the belt breeders. 

The ringdove has been by fome In- ' 
troduced into the dovecoat, by fetting 
the eggs under a common pigeon j 
they will in this cafe live, and take 
the chance among the pigeons ; and 
they have two advantages over them, 
the one in their largenefs, and the other 
in their hardynefs; fortiiey wiljendure 
any weather, and live upon any food. 

The hufbandman (hould have a very 
careful eye upon the proportion of the 
fexes among his pigeons ; for there is 
nothing fo hurtful as the having too 
many cocks, efpecially if they keep the 
larger or tame Wnd. It is his bufmefs 
to keep his dovecoat well Uock'd ; and 
moll people who keep them make their 
confciences eafy about deluding away 
thofe belonging to their neighbours ; 
but this abundance of cocks thins the 
dovecoat, for tliey grow quarrelfome, 
and will heat others away ; till by de- 
grees a very thriving dovecoat (hall be 
by this fmgie miftake reduced to a 
poor condition. 

A very cheap and eafy way of ma- 
king a dovecoat is to build the walls 
with clay mixed with ftraw, they gnay 
be made four feet or more in thick- 
nefs, and while they are wet it is eafy 
to cut holes in them with a chifTel or 
other inftrument. 

This kind of dovecoat, befide its 
cheapnefs, has the advantage of great 
warmth, and no building agrees bet- 
ter with the pigeons. A dovecoat of 
this kind, of four yards fquare in the 
clear, may be built for about five pounds. 

The holes fliould be made about 
fourteen 



PEA 



P E A 



fourteen inches desp, and a little dip- 
pine; backward. The Rev. iMr. Law- 
rei.ce who ufi-d this method of !uild- 
ing his dovttoat fays, that the pistons 
pro percd in it better ihan in any brick 
or lione building he h^id fcen. 

Of whatever materials the coat be 
erc£led,i; (liuuid he whi:t-\vafhcd fre- 
quently on the outl'ide. The pigeon, 
as has been laid already, is a cleaiily 
bird : it loves the ap|)earanct ot neat- 
nefs; and bcf:dcthe white colour, len- 
ders the building mote ccnC^icuou^. 

As to the food of pigeons, befirfe 
the peafe, and tares already ment o- 
ned, barley is very proper, heartening 
thim very much, and making ti.em 
lay; and for the fame purpofc buck- 
wheat is alfo ail excellent as well as 
cheap food. 

for the grsateft part of the year, 
however, the common pigeorja iii a 
dovecoat take care of thcinielves, and 
need no food from their keeper. ,Ti)eie 
are only two feafons at whjch.it is ne- 
cefTary or proper to .''eed them. One of 
thefe times is the depth of winter, 
when the grc upd is covered with fnow, 
or hardened fo by frofl, that nothing 
is to be got ; and tiie c ther is, the mid- 
dle or biter end ot June, 

The reafon of feer ing them in the 
firft of thtfe fealbns is obvious ; the 
latter, the farmers, when they fpeak of 
this fowl, call benting time. There is 
a grafs calle^! bent grafs, the feed of 
which is ripe about this ftafon, and is 
the only food of that kind the pigeons 
can cafily get, the peafe being not yet 
ripe. This is a very poor food, and 
the pigeons at this feafon ufuaily have 
many young broods ; fo that they will 
be ftarvcd if they are left to this poor 
diet : and the farmer will always find 
his account in giving them food at this 
feafon, as well ai at the ether. This 
lafts however but a fmall time ; and 
the other is only neceffary at the fe- 
vereftdaysof winter; fo that the pi- 
geon is^t tlie utmoA but a fmall tx- 
pence, and that for a very fhort time. 

Bellde the food, the breeder of tame 
pigeons has been advifed to give them 
a lump of faked clay, and the fame 
indulgence muft be (hsv^n to iliefe. 
But as they are more numerous, there 
>i to be a larger allowance. A large 
heap of clay ftiould be laid near the 
dovecoat, and the brine of tlie family 
UJntinuaHy beaten in among it. Ano- 



ther way Is to make a kind of mortar 
wi:h lime, faud, clsy, and fait, which 
they will peck with great fatisfdd on. 
The pigeons tliemhlvcs liave poinied 
out this nietiu d, for they are conti- 
nually pecking at the joints of walls 
to get out the mortar. Wlien it h t'lus 
niaile on pyrj<vfc for them, it is belt to 
niake it thin,and kccp it fo by oftca 
bcatii.g it up with brine. , " 

In lonte places they lay\vhat.is 
called a fait cat, nc«r the dovecoat. 
Thib is a Ijrge lump ot fait nif.de tor 
the purpose at the filt pans ; and is tite 
merliol commonly tsktn whcie there 
are works in the ncigLbourhood, but 
the way of uiing (alt in a mixture with 
clay is better. 

What is found by experience to ait- 
fwer bef^ of all- is this. A ;.e;ip of Icim 
is to be laid near the dovecoat, and beat 
u;j to a kind of pap with brine or wa- 
ter; into this is to be thrown a Jaige 
quantity of nay fait, and a little faii- 
petre, and wiili it a fhovtl fuil or two 
cf large coarfe fand. When brine it 
uTed to beat up the loam, lefs fait is 
to be ufed ; and when water, there 
murt be he more of it in proportion. 
And in the fame manner, if the loam 
contain a great deal of fand, the lei's is 
to be addsd to it ; and if it contain Itfi, 
the more is to be given. Where loan* 
is not to be had, clay wili do, but then 
a much larger quantity of fand mufl be 
put in ; and the bcft fand lor this pur- 
pofe is large coarfe fca far.d, which is 
already impregnated with f^h water; 
or that which is got in fcreening cf 
gravel. 

It is a very fingulsr thing, that the 
pigeon loves fait in this manner; arvi 
its fondnefsfcr foltpttrej which is very 
great, is not fo well known ; thougU 
this might have been difcovered by ob- 
ferving the liking this bird has to the 
mortar in old walls, which contains a 
fait very nearly allyed to tliC common 
fultpetre. 

Salt is not only ufeful. in tliis man- 
ner to pltafe the pigeons, when th'ry 
are in health, but nothing recovers 
them fo readily from ficknefs. A mix- 
ture of bay fait and cummin feed lut- 
ing with them an univenal remedy. 

A great many contrivances have 
been publiflicd; and many more are 
handed about among tlie country peo- 
ple as great fecietf,for tic nKtking the 
pigeons love their habitation, aid 
tempting 



A 



P I M 

♦ 

tempting fuch flraeglers from tiitir 
neighbours as chance to come to the 
coar to ftttle in it. Some have advifed 
the uff of afHifteticla, and others of 
cuinniin feed betore mentioned for thi« 
ptiiiioie; hut the bed method of ail 
others is to keep up conftantly fuch a 
heapof fahed loam as before dcfcrihed ; 
this they love, and tneywill tlicietore 
itav vvltcre they can have it in plenty. 
ThtF contrivance, vvitli the addition of 
keeping the dovtcoat neat and clean, 
Jod not fuffering them to be diilurbed 
in it, will before tokeep the ftockin 
good number, and too likely to increafe 
it attheexpenceof llie neighbours. 

The profit of t'ie;eons is very confi- 
derable, and very certain ; for they 
breed very {a(\, and there is a conftant 
denjand for them. Near great towns 
it may he worth white to keep fome of 
the large tame kind ; hecaufe although 
tliey cannot be fed but at a large ex 
pence, yet their young come fo early, 
and are fo far and fine, that they com- 
mand a price, wiiich very well returns 
it; but in the country, the common 
pigeon is the proper kind j for though 
the price that the biids fetch is not 
nearly fo great, their number, and fmall 
expence of keeping, very well make 
amends. 

PiLEWORT, (Chilldcrlum minus.) 
This is a very fmall plant, found in 
inoiiV meadows and by hedge fides : 
the roots confill of flender fibres, with 
fome little tubercles among them, 
which are fuppofed to refem;le the 
kaemorrhoids ; from whenceit has been 
concluded, that this root mufb needs 
be of wonderful efficacy for the ctare 
of that diftemper : to the tafle, it is little 
•ther than mucilaginous. 

PIMENTO. Jamaica pepper, 

PIMPERNEL, [AimugaUh.) Com- 
mon male and female pimpernel. This 
is a low plant, in appearance refem- 
blin^ chickwted; but eafily diltin- 
guifhaMe by its leases being fpotted 
underneath, and joined immediately 
to the fialk. The male and female 
pimpernels differ no ctheiwife than in 
the colour of their flowers : they are 
both found wild in the fields, but the 
male or red flowered fort is moft 
common.'" 

Botli the Pimpernels have an herba- 
ceous, roughifh tafte, with little or no 
/meli. Many extraordinary virtues 
have been at;ributed to them. Geof- 



P I N 

froy eft;em^ them cephalic, fudorific, 
vulnerary, antimaniacal, antepileptic, 
and alexaterial. Tragu-, Cafpar, HofiF- 
man, Micliaeli, and other-., are alfo 
very liberal in their praifes : one of 
thefe gentlemen dtclarcs, that he haj 
known numerous inftanc-'s of the An- 
gular efficacy of a dccodion and tinc- 
tuie of pimpernel, in maniacal and me- 
lancholicdeliria. Butlaterpraftittoners 
have net been fo bappy as to meet with 
the lii.e fuccefs. Pimpernel is not un- 
frequently taken as fo< d ; it makes no 
unpleafant fallad ; and in fome parts of 
this kingdom, is a common potherb. 
A fpirituous tinfture of it contains no- 
thing valuable : the only preparation 
that promifes any utility, is an extrafi 
made with water; or the expreiTed 
juice depurated and infpifTifed. 

Water Pjmpernel, \^Samoius.^ Thh 
plant grows wild in fwampy places, 
where the water ufually ftands in win- 
tei, and is feldom prel'erved in gardens. 
It is an annual plant, which flowers in 
June, and the feeds are ripe in Auguft ; 
at which time, whoever hath a mind 
to cultivate this plant, (hould fow the 
feeds on a moill foil, where the plants 
will come up, and require no farther 
care but to keep them clear from 
weeds. 

PINE, [Pinus.l The fpecies are, ifj, 
the wild or Scotch pine, or Scotch fir. 

This is called l)y us the Scotch fir, 
becaufe it grows naturally on the High- 
lands of Scotland, where the feeds, 
falling from their cones, come up and 
propa<ate themfelves without any care. 
But u IS not in Scotland only that thefe 
trees thiive naturally; for they grovir 
fpontaneoufly in Denmark, Norway, 
and Sweden. And thougli, from the 
above inftances, it would feem that 
they delighted principally in thefe nor- 
tlicrn parts ; yet when the plants are 
properly raifed and planted out, no 
climate comes amifs to them, for they 
will thrive and grow to be good tim- 
ber trees in almofl any part of the 
world. — The timber of this tree is 
wliat we call deal ; is fometimes red, 
fometimes yellow, l-vt chiefly white. 

2, The fV^y mouth Pine. This grows 
naturally in moft parts of North Ame- 
rica, where it is called the white pine. 
It is one of the talleft trees of all the 
fpecies, often growing a hundred feet 
high in thofe countries. The bark of 
this tree is very fmooth and delicate, 
efpecailly 



PIN 



T. I N 



efpccully vvnen young; tlie leaves are 
long and ilender, five growing out of 
each flicatti; the branches are pretty 
clofely garnifticd with them, (o make 
a fine appearance; liie cones are Jonp, 
flcndtr, and very loofe, opening with 
the firfi warmth of the fpring, fo thai 
if they are not gathered in winter, 
the fcales open and let out the feeds. 
The wood of this fort is eficemed for 
making raafts for rtiips; it is in Eng- 
hnd titled Lord Weymcutli's, or New- 
England Fine. As tlie wood of this 
free was generally thought of great 
fervice to the navy, there was a law 
made in the ninth of Queen Anne for 
the prefervation of the trees, and to 
encourage their growth in America ; 
and it is withiri thefe forty years that 
tliefe trees began to be propagated in 
England in any plenty, though there 
were feme large trees of this fort grow- 
ing in two or three places long before, 
particularly at Lord Weymouth's, and 
Sir Wyndham Knatciibull's in Kent; 
and it has been cLiefly from tiie feeds of 
the latter that the much greater number 
of thefe trees now in England have been 
raifed ; for althoiigli there has annually 
been fome of the feeds brought from 
America, yet thefe have been few in 
comparifon to the produce of the trees 
in Kent ; and many of the tiees which 
have been raifed from the feeds of thefe 
now produce plenty of good feeds, par- 
ticularly the trees in the gardens of his 
Grace tlie Duke of Argyle at Whitton, 
which annually produce large quanti- 
ties of cones. — This fort and the Scotch 
Pine are the beft woiih cultivating of 
all the kinds for 'he fakeof their wood ; 
the others may be planted for variety 
in parks, &c. where they make a good 
appearance in winter, when other trees 
are deftitute of leaves. 

3. The Culii-vared Pine-tree, commonly 
called the Utone Pine. The Stone Pine 
is a tree of which there (hould be a few 
in ^1 plantations of ever-greens. It 
wiM grow to a corsfiderahle height, and 
ariCeswitha Arait and fair Item, thoue!) 
with a roiigh bark. The leaves will 
contribute tothe diverfif)2ni; tlie fcene, 
at they differ in colour from the othtr 
forts, and are arranged in a different 
manner. The cones which it bears ate 
monftrtiufly large and it;r'oinited ; they 
ftrike the eye by their bold appearance 
when hanging on the trees, aru.; afford 
|)Ieafure upon being more ciofely exa- 



mined, from the beautiful arrangement 
of tiieir fcales. They produce a large 
kernel js fweet to the tafte as an almond, 
which for.Tierly were kept in the fhops 
and fold for rtftoratives, but are at 
prtfent neglected. In Italy, the ker- 
nels are ferved up in defcrts at t!ie ta- 
ble, and are thought to be falutary ia 
colds, coughs, and confumptions. It» 
timber is not ouite fo valuable as t!ie 
ether forts. Thecolosir is not the fame 
in ail trees; fome exhibiting their timber 
of a very whi!e colour, others aic yel- 
lower, and fmell rtrongcr of turpentine. 
4. The SiL-amp Pine-tree This is a very 
large giowing tree, and is highly pro- 
per, as its name imports, to be plante4 
in moilt places. — The leaves arc Jong, 
of a dciightful green colour ; three ifiue 
out of each (h-eath, and adorn the 
younger brandies in great plenty. — Its 
propagation is the fame as the Wey- 
mouth Pine; and the planting out, 
and alter management of the trees, 
fhould be exacflly i'lmilar. — It will grosv 
well on all upland and dry grounds; 
but it chiefly delights in moill places, 

5, The Ctmhra Pine. The Ceml;ra Pins 
is a fine tree; the leaves are very beau- 
tiful, being of a lighter green than moft 
of the forts, and are produced five ia 
a ftieath. The leaves aielong and nar- 
row ; and as they clofeiy ornament the 
branches all round, tliey lock beautiful, 
and render the tree on that account 
very valuable. The cones cf this tree 
alfo have a good effect; for they are 
larger than thofe of tl.e Fineafkr, and 
the fquama are beautifully a:T..i i;ed. 
This tree is a native of the Alps, and 
is well defcribed by Mr. Harte, in hi» 
elegant elfayson hu.'bardry, under the 
iiii^ oi ylphiinmjli Pine, fie confiders 
it as a tree likely to thrive with great 
advantage on our bleak, barren, roekj, 
and moutaiiious lands ; even near the 
fea, and in north or north-eaftcriy af- 
pefls, where fomsrhing of this haicJy 
kind is much wanted. 1 he timber is 
large, and has many ufes, cfpecially 
within doors, or un.ler cover. The 
bark of the trunk or bole of the trc.; is 
not reddifh lil-e llie h^rk of the Pin«^ 
but of a whiti.li cafl, like that of the 
Fir. The fiic-11 which indofes the kernel 
is eafily cracked, and tlie kerrels arc 
covered with a bro\\ n fKin whicii peels 
off. They arc ahoi;t the fize of .i com- 
mon pea, trlangolar like buckwheat, 
and white uad foft as a Wanched nl- 
' ir.o;id. 



P I N 



P I N 



mond, of an oily agreeable tarte, luit 
leaving in tlic niouih thu: fmall degree 
of afperiry vvliicl; is peculiar lo v^ild 
fruits, nnd not unplf ifing. Thefe ker- 
nels fomctir.ies iDakea part in a Swifj 
defert. Wainfcotting, flooring, and 
other joiners work, made witli tiie 
planks of Aplicrnoufli, are of a finer 
grain, and more beaiiiifully vai legated 
than deal, and the fmell of the wood 
js more agreeable. From this tree is 
extraiSed a white odoriferous refm. 
On this occafion the curious planter 
inay confult a very fcarcc piece, Dt 
Arbonbus Cor/:ferh, written about 2co 
years ago, by Pietro Bclloni. — In the 
plantations belonging to Jeremiah 
Dixon efq; at Glcddow near Leeds, ni?y 
be feen feveral of thefe Pines. They 
are there called the Gledciow Pine. 

6. Tfe Sil-vir Fir-trie. Tliib is a noble 
uptight tree. The leaves grow fmf^ly on 
the branches, and tlitir ends areflightly 
indented. Their upper furface is of a 
fine ftrong green colour, and their un- 
der has anornament of two white lines, 
running lengthways on eacii fide the 
midrib, on account of which filvcry 
look this fort is called the Silver Fir. 
The cones are large, and grow ereft ; 
and when the warm weather comes on, 
they foon <hed their feeds ; which (hould 
be a cai:tion to gatlier the cones before 

that happens. This tree is common 

in the mountainous parts of Scotland, 
and in Norway, and affords the yellow 
deals. From its yielding pitch, it has 
obtained the title of P/«a, or Pitch-tree. 

7. The common Spruce Fir- tree. The 
Spruce Fir is a beautiful tree, as well 
as a valuable one for its timber, pfro- 
ducing the white deal. It is a native 
of Norway and Denmark, where it 
grows fpontaneonfly, and is one of the 
principal productions of their woods. 
It alfo grows plentifully in the Higli- 
lands of Scotland, where it adorns 
thofe cloud-capped mountains with a 
conftant verdure. Thelongconed Cor- 
riih Fir is a variety of this tree, and 
differs fcarcely in any refpedt, except 
that the leaves and the cones are 
larger. As t^ardencrs generally receive 
it as adiltinrt Fir, it may not be amifs 
to mention it here; thou.;h vve own the 
difference is fo inconfiderable as to 
make it hardly worth feeking after j 
and though the cones are rather longer 
than the other fort, yet of that alfo 
the eones are very large, oftentimes 



rear a foot; fo that they may eafily 
pafs the one for the other, a^ they both 
iiangdown alike. 

8. The Canada Pine. Uurittr\E-velyn. 

For the cultivation of Pine, fee Fir. 

PINEASTER, (Pirui Syh.Jlrn.) A 

rpecies of Pine growing wild on the 

mountains of Italy. 

PINIL-APPLE, [Ananui.] Of this 
plant there arefeveral varieties differing 
in the fliapes, fize, and colour of their 
fruits. The niofl efteemed are, i. Oval 
fliaped with white flefli, or the green 
pine. A. Pyramidal, or fugar-loaf 
pine-apple, with yellow fle(h. 3. Green 
Sugar-loaf. 4.. Black Antigua or Ripley 
pine-s]jple. 5. Shining Green-leaved 
pine, with fcarce any fpines; or the 
King pine. 6. Granada Pine with mar- 
bled leaves. 7. Bogwarp pine, with 
broad green leaves. S. Smooth long nar- 
rovv leaved pine. g. Gold-flriped leaved 
pine. 10. Silver-ltriped leaved pine. 

Of the above forts the two former 
are chiefly efleemed, and the latter pre- 
ferred moft of all. 

The plants are propagated by plant- 
ingthe crowns v-fhich grow on the fruit, 
or the fuckers which are produced 
either from the fides of the plants, or 
under ib.e fruit, both which have been 
lound equally good ; although by fome 
perfons tiie crown is thought preferable 
to the fuckers, as fuppofing it will 
produce fruit fooner than the fuckers, 
which is certainly a millalce. 

The fuckers and crowns mufl be 
laid to dry in a warm place for four 
or five days, or more (according to 
the moifture of the part which adhered 
to the old plant or fruit) ; for if they 
are immediately planted, they will rot. 
The certain rule of judging when they 
are fit to plant, is by obferving if the 
bottom is healed over and become 
hard ; for if the fuckers are drawn off 
carefully from the old plants, they will 
have a hard fkin over the lower part, fo 
need not lie fo long as the crowns, or 
thofe whofe bottoms are moift. But 
whenever a crown is taken from the 
fruit, or the fuckers from old plants, 
they (hould be immediately diverted of 
their bottom leaves, fohigh as to allow 
depth for their planting; fo that they 
may be thoroughly dry and healed in 
every part, left when they receive heat 
and moillure they fhould jserifh, which 
often happens when this method is not 
obferved. If thefe fuckers or crowns 

are 



P I N 



P I N 



are taken off late in the autumn, or 
flij-,ii(» the wintc.-,or carlyin rhelpriop, 
they ihouid be laid in a nry place in the 
iioyv, (ot a fortnight or tiuce weekb 
bciorc t .ey arc planttd, tut in the 
fu n:nfr 'faion they will he tit for 
plii'img in a week at (".Tr;he(t. 

A^ Id the earth in which thefe fhould 
be planterl, if you have a ricli good 
kitchen ^.irden mould, not too heavy, 
fo ab to detain the moilture too long, 
nor over li^rit and fanHy, it will be vciy 
proper tortliem without any mixture : 
but where this is wanting, yow Ihouid 
procure fome fiifh e^rth from a good 
p. < lure, which fliouid be mixeH with 
aStiit a iliTd par: ol 'otren neats dung, 
or 'le dung of an old melon or cucun.- 
bcr bed. Thele ftiouid be mixed 
fix or cicht month at leaii before they 
arc ofed, "^Jt if it be a year it will he 
the i>ei:er ; and ihouid be olten turned, 
that 'litir paits may be better ui.i.'cd, 
as aifo ihe cliid» >.vell broken. This 
eanli /hou!d not be fcreened very fine, 
for if you can only clear it of the gic at 
ttone?, it will be better for the jji.mts 
thai; when it is m de too fine. You 
flioiild always avoid mixing; any land 
with the carih, unlcf^ it nt extremely 
ftiff, and then it will be neceffary to 
have it mixed at leaft fix months or a 
year before it is ufed ; and it mull be 
freq-itntiy turned, that the fand may 
be incorporated in the earth fo as to 
ilivide its parts : but you (hi">uld not put 
more than a fix;h part of fand. for too 
much fand is very injurious to thcfe 
plants. 

In the fummer feafon, when the 
weather is warm, thefe plants mull be 
freqiiently watered, but you fhould 
not ^ive them large quantities at a time : 
you mufl alfo be \ery careful that the 
m;i(ture is not detained in the pot> by 
the holes being flopped, for that will 
foon deltroy the plants. If tiie feafon 
is warm, they fhould oe watered twice 
a week, but in a cool feafon once a 
week is often enough; and during tlie 
fummer feafon you fhould once a week 
water them gently all over their leaves, 
which Will waili the filth from oflftiiem, 
and thereby greatly promote the growth 
of the plants. 

There are fome perfons who fre- 
quently fhift thel'c plants from pot to 
pot, but tins is by no means to be 
pradtifed by thofe who propofe to have 
large well-fiavoured fruit j for un- 

PL.II. 



Icf~ the pots be filled witli the roots, 
by tlic time the plants begin to fhew 
their fruit, they commoiily produce 
fm:;ll fiuit, which have generally large 
crov%ns on them, tlieidore the plants 
will not require to be new potted of- 
tener than twice in a feafon : tiie firft 
time fiiould heahout the end of Ap.-il, 
when tiie fucktrs and crowns of the 
former year's fruit (which remained all 
the 'viiitcr in thofe pots in whicli they 
were fiilt planted) iliould he ihifted 
into larger pots, that is, thofe \\hich 
were in halipenny, or three-fartliing 
pots, fliouid be put in:o p-rnny, or at 
mofl ihiee-lialtpenny pots, according 
to the fize oi the plants j for you mull 
be very ca'-eful not to over pot them, 
nothing being more prejudicial to ti.efe 
plants. Tie fecond time for (hiuing 
of them is in tiie beginrinc; of Auguft, 
when you fhould fhik thofe which are 
of a proper fize for fruiting the follow- . 
in^fpring, into two- penny pots, which 
are full large enough for any of thefe 
plants. At each of thefe times of fhift- 
ing the plants, the bark bed fhould be 
flirred up, and fome new barK added, 
to raife the bed up to the height it was 
at firlf ma'ie ; and w.icn tiie pots are 
plunged again into the baik-hed, the 
plants Ihouid be watered gently all 
over their leaves, to wafh off the filth, 
and to fettle the earth to the roots of 
the plants. If the bark-bed be well 
flirted, and a quantity of good frefh 
bdrk added f) the bed, at this latter 
fhifting, it will be oi great fervice to 
the plants, for they may remain in the 
fame tan until the beginning of No- 
vember or fometimes later, according 
to the mildnefs of the feafon, and will 
require but little fir^- before that time. 
During tiie winter feafon, thefe plants 
will not require to be watered more 
than once a week, according as yon 
find the earth in the pots too dry , nor 
fhould you '/ive them too much it each 
time, tor it i^ much bttter t;> give them 
a iitcle water often, than to o\er-wattr 
them. 

Von muftobferve never to fhift thofe 
plants which fh;w th;ir fruit into 
other pots, for if they are removed after 
the fruit ^ppearj. it will ftop the 
growth, and rhereby caufe the fruit to 
be fmaller, and rttard its ripening Co 
;h' t many times it will be Oflober or 
N'.vember beior:: the fruit is ripe; 
therefore you fhould be very caret ul to 

A a keep 



P I x\' 



p r N 



krcp the plants in a vigorous growing 
ftafc, Iroin tlie firll appearance of the 
fruit ; for if they recti ve a ciicck after 
this., the the fruit is generally fmall and 
ill tafted. 

When you have cut off the fruit 
from the plant wiiofe kind you are de- 
firous to propae;.ue, you fhould trim 
the leaves and plunge the pot* again 
into a moderate hot-bed, olftrving to 
refrefh them freq'iently with water, 
which will caufe ihtm to put out their 
fuckers in plenty ; (o that a perfon may 
be foon fuj)plied with plants enoue;!), 
beciufe upon this de|.ends its fize and 
goodnefsj if he kttps the plants in 
health. 

1 here is not any thing which can 
happen to tiitfe plants of a more dan- 
geious na:ure, than to h .ve them at- 
tacked by fmall white infcds, which 
appear at firlf like a wiiite mildew, 
but foon after have tie appearance of 
lice : thtfe attjck noth root and leaves 
at the fame time, and if net deflrryed 
wiil fpread over a whole flove in a fhort 
tinK, and in a few vi.eeks Hop the 
growth of the plants, by fu;king out 
the nutritious juice, fo that the It-aves 
will appear yellow and fickiy, and have 
a great number oi yellow trrii.fparent 
fpots all ovi r them. Thefe infefls, aici-r 
tiiey are fully grown, apptar like bugs, 
and adhere fo clofely to the leaves, as 
pot to be eafiiy wafhed off, and feem 
to have no local motion. They were 
originally brought from America upon 
the plants which v\ere imported from 
thence, and ptcbably they are the fame 
infcdts which have deftroyed he fugar 
canes in fome of the Leewaid Iflands. 

The ftoves which are eredled for 
preferving of thefe plants are buiit in 
ditTertnt ways, according to the fancy 
of tlie contriver. Some perfons build 
them wit': upright glafTes in front, a- 
boi;t four feet high, and fluping giafTes 
over thefe, which riie about fix feet 
high, fo that thtre it- juil height 
enough for a perfon to walk upright 
on the back fide ot" the bark-bed. (Dthers 
make but one ilope of glalles, from 
the top of the flove down to the pl.ite, 
which lies about fix or eight inches 
a' eve the bark-pit, in the front of the 
ft(^ve, fo that in this flovt there is no 
walk made in the ifnt between the 
bark-pit and the gh^fTes ; but the in- 
conveniency of watering the plants, 
as alfo of coming near thofe plants 



which are placed in the front of the 
Aove tocl.;tO (hem, has, info:iicmea> 
furc, hri.ught them into difedecm, fo 
that few perfons now build them, 
though the expence is much lefs than 
the other kind ol floves. One of thtfe 
rtov-.j, about twenty -five feet long ia 
the clear, with the pit torthe tan reach- 
ing fiom end to end, and fix feet and 
a half wide, will contain about an 
hundred plants; fo that whoever is 
defirous to have this fruit, may eafiiy 
proportion their llove to the quantity 
of fruit they are willing to have. 

But it will alfo be neceffjry to have 
a bark-pit under a deep frame, in order 
to raife the young plants in fummer j 
for in this bed you fhould plunge the 
fuckers, when they are taken from the 
old plants, as alfo the crowns which 
come from the fruit, fo that this frame 
will be as a nurfery to raifc the young 
plants to fupply the flove; but thefe 
plants fhould not remain i n thefe trames 
longer than till the beginning of No- 
vember, unlefs the Irame is built with 
bvick-work with flues in it to warm 
the air, which are very ufelul, ai nurt 
feries, to keep the young plants till they 
aie of a proper fize to produce fruit ; 
and the aii in this frame may be kept ei- 
her w armer cr cooler than the ftove, 
according as the plants may require, fo 
that the Ifove may be every autumn 
filled only with bearing plants, where- 
by a much greater quantity of fruit 
may be annually produced, than can 
be where young and old plants mufl 
be crowded into the fame ftove: but 
where there are no inconveniencies of 
this kind, the young plants, about the 
middle or latter end of Odlober, mull 
be removed into the ilove, and being 
fmall, may be crowded in among the 
larger plants ; for as they will not 
grow much during the winter feafon, 
fo they may be placed very clofe toge- 
ther. The end of March, where there 
is no nurfery for the young plants, they 
mufl be removed out into the hot-bed 
again, which fliould be prepared a 
fortnight before, that the tan may have 
acquired a proper heat ; but you fhould 
be careful that the tan be not too hot, for 
that might fcald the fibres of the plants 
if they are fuddenly plunged therein. 
Therefore if you find .he bark too hot, 
you fhould not plunge the pots above 
two or three inches into the tan, letting 
them remain fo until the heat of the 

tan 



P I N 



P I N 



tan is a littJc abated, wl)en you fhculd are placed Into the tan for the winter 
plunge the poti down to thtir rim in feafon (which fhouH be done about 



the bed. Jt the nights Ihould continue 
cold aittr tlitfe plants aicrcnioved into 
the bed, you muit carefully cov;;r the 
i{tdiies\vi h mat>>, otlicrwife bycoir/mg 
out of a warm ilove they may receive 
a fodden check, which will greatly re- 
tard their growth, which mL'l\ he care- 
fully a\oided ; becaufc tl;e fooner the 
plants arc fet growing in t!ie fpripg, 
the more time they will have to gain 
ftrength, in order to produce large fruit 
the following feafon. 



the mcirfk of Otioier) the tan-bed 
fliool'1 b= lenewed, addip.i; two thirds 
of new tan to one thiid oi the old. If 
this he well mixed, and the new tan is 
good, the bed wifl maintain a proper 
degree of warmth till February, at 
whioii time it will be proper to llir up 
the bed, and add a load or two of new 
tap, fo as to raifc the bed as much as 
it funk fince the autumn; this will 
give a frelh heat to tiie bed, and keep 
the plants growing, and, as tl'.c fruit 



Yon fhouid not plunge tlie pots too will now begin to appear, it will be 



clofe together in this framd, but allow 
them a proper dillance, that the lower 
part of the plants may mcreafe in bulk, 
for it is on this that the magnitude of 
the fruit depends ; becaufe when the 
plants are placed too c!ofe, they draw 
up very tall, butdonot obtain Hrength ; 



ahfclutely neceffary to keep t!ie plants 
in a growing flate, otiierwife the fiuic 
will not be large j for if they receive 
any check at this time, it will grt atly 
injure them. 

In April it will be proper to Ifir up 
the tan again, and if the bed has funk 



fo that when they are taken out of the fince tl.e la/t flirring, it will be proper 

bed, the leaves are not able to fupport to add f.ime freili tan to it; thi'- will 

themfelves, but all the outward long rene.v the warmth of the bed and for- 

leaves will fall down, leaving the ward the fruit. And if the tan-bed is 

fmallcr middle leaves naked, and this condnntly kept in a good temper, and 

foaietim.-. .vill caufe them to rot in the a fufiicient quantity of air admitted 

centei. \\;u muft alfo obferve, when every day to tlie plants, they will fac- 

the fiin ii very warm, to raifs the ceed muc!) better than in a cool bed 

glafles f I tlie hot-bed in the heat of kept too c'.ofe. 

the day with props, in order to let out Tliofe plants which fhew their fruit 

the fleam of the bed, and to admit early in icbruary will ripen about 

frefh air J for one negleft of this kind, June ; fome forts are at lead a month 

in a very hot day, may dellroy all tl.e or five weeks longer in ripening than 

plants, or at lead fo fcald them, that others, from the time of tlie ippear^nce 

they will not get over it in many of the Vuit : but the feafon in which 

months. It will be alfo very proper, the fruit is in greated pcrfetSior. is 

in extreme hot weather, to fhade the from tl.e beginning of June to the end 

glaflTes with mats, for the glalfes lying of September; though in March, April, 

foneartotheleavesofthe plants will oc- and Odober, iliis fruit may frequently 



cafion a prodigious heat at fuch times. 
There are fome perfons who regu- 
late the heat of their doves by thermo- 
meters in fuinmer, but at that feafon 
this is unnecefTary, for the outward 



be feen in pretty good pe:fe£lion, but 
tlien the piints have been in perfect 
health, ctherwife they arefcldom well 
davcured. 

The method of judging when the 



air in hot weather is frequently greater the fruit is ripe, is by the frndl, and 



than the ananas heat marked on the 
thermometers, fo that the heat of the 
floves at that feafon will be much 
greater. Tiie ufe ot the thtn.iometer 
is only in winter, during tlie time the 
fires are continued, by wi.ich it is eafy 
to judge when f) increafe or diminifh 



from obfetvation; for as the fcveral 
forts differ from each other in the co- 
lour of tlicir fruit, that will not be any 
direffVion vvlieo tocut them ; for dicufd 
they remain (o long .^s to become fot't 
to the touch before titty are cut, they 
become flat and dead, as they do alfo 



the fire« ; for at that feafon the doves when they are cut long l.efore they are 
fliould not be kept to a greater war.Tith eaten : therefore the fured way to have 
than five or fix dividons above ananas, this fruit in perfedlii.n. ii to cut it the 
nor fuffered to be more than as many fame day it is eaten ; hit it mud be 
djvifions below it. When the plants cut early in the morning, before the 

A a 2 fun 



P I N 



P I N 



Jan lias heated the fruit, othcrvvilc it 
will be liot. ohfeivini^ to cut tite Halk 
as long to the Iruit as pufllble, an! lay 
it in a cool, hut dry place, piflcivin,; 
the Italk and crown unto it until it is 
eaten. 

Mr. Speedily, gardener to the Duke 
ot' Porthnd, lia^ lately introduced oak 
leaves into ihe rtovc inflesd ot' IJark. 
" I prefume, f.iys lie, ii).it the leaves 
of the oak abound wiili the fame qua- 
lity IS the liark of tlie tree, tlierefcre 
tlic fooncr iliey are raked up, alter 
tluy fi'.U from the trees, the better ; ai 
that quality will naturally decrcafe 
dui ing the time they are expofed to the 
weather. 

'' After being raked into heaps, 
they (hould immediattly be curiicd to 
fonie place near tiie hot-houfc, whcie 
they muft lie to couch. 1 generally 
fence them roiind with feme charcoal- 
hurdles, or any thing e'ife, to keep 
them from being Mow n about the gar- 
den in windy wtatlitr. In this place 
we tread them well, and water them, 
in cafe they happen to have been 
brought in dry. We make the heap 
fix or feven feet in thicknefs, covering 
it over with old matts, or any thing 
elfe, to prevent the upper leaves from 
being blown away. In a few days, tlie 
lieap will come to a flrong lieat. For 
the firit year or two that I ufed tliefe 
leaves, 1 did not continue them in the 
heap longer than ten days or a fort- 
nigiit ; but in this I difcovered a ccn- 
fiderable inconvenience, as tiiey fettled 
fo much, when got into the hot-houfe, 
as foon to rcquiie a fupply. Taught 
by exper'cncc, I now let them remain 
in the heap for five or fix weeks, by 
which time they are properly prepared 
for the hct-houfe. In getting them 
into the pine pits, if they appear dry, 
we water them again, treading them 
in layers exceedingly well, till the pits 
are quite full. We then cover the 
whole with tan to the thicknefs of two 
inches, and tread it well till the fur- 
face becomes fmooth and even. On 
this we place the pine-pots in the 
manner they are to liand, beginning 
with the middle-row firft, and filling 
up the fpaces between the pots with 
tan. In like manner, we proceed to 
the next row, till thewhole be ftni/lied. 
And this operation is performed in the 
fame manner 2s when tan only is ufed, 



•' After this, tiic leaves require no far- 
ther tiouble thewhole fcafon through : 
as they will retain a ccnilant ai d re- 
gular heat for twelve montlis without 
either flir-in^ or turning ; and if I may 
form ajudgment from theii appearance 
when taken out, (being always entire 
and pcrft-£l) it i.. probaMe they would 
continue their heat through a fecond 
year : but as an annual fupply of leaves 
here is Cifily obtained, fuch a trial, 
with ui, is hardly worth the trouble of 
making. However, as a faving in 
leaves may be an agreeable ohjedt in 
places where they are lefs pUntituI, I 
was induced to make the following ex- 
periments : In i7"7, one of the pine- 
pits w,i» fiiled with one part of old and 
two parts of new leaves, well mixed 
together. And lait yeir, (177^!) one 
pit was filled with old and new leaves 
in equal quantities. In both tlitfe ex- 
periments, I had the fdtistad>ion to find 
the pits, fo filled, to retain a heat 
thiough each feafrn, equal to the other 
pits that were filled entirely with new 
leaves. 

" Laft year (1778) I alfo ufed a con- 
fidcrable quantity of the leaves al'ter 
they were taken cut of the hot-houfs 
in the early-made hot-beds, and found 
them to anfwer quite as well as frefh 
leaves. 

" 1 muft beg leave to obferve, that 
when the leaves are intended to be ufed 
a fecond time, it will be proper at the 
taking them out of the pits, to remove 
fome few at the top, as alfo on each 
fide, becaufe th« leaves at the top and 
out fide of the pit, approach moll to a 
fiate of decay. 

" After this, the pines will have no 
occafion to be removed but at the lla- 
ted times of their management, viz. at 
the fliifting them in their pots, &c. 
when, at each time, a little frefii tan 
fhould be added to make up the defi- 
ciency arifing from the fetting of the 
beds ; but this will be inconfiderable, 
as the leaves do not fettle much after 
their long couching. During the two 
fird years of my practice, I did not ufe 
any tan, but plunged the pine-pots in 
the leaves, and jufl coveied the furface 
of the beds, when finifhed, with a little 
faw-dult, to give it a neatncfs. This 
method was attendee! with one incon- 
venience : fc: by the caking of the 
leaves, they fliiunk from the fides of 

the 



P I N 



P I N 



the pots, whereby they became expofcd 
to the air, and at the fame time the 
heat of the bcdi wa^ p.rmitted to 
cfcape. 

•• Many }>o\vcr''ul reafons may he 
^ven why ojk leaves (tor having; an 
opportunity of tolleclin*; an immenfe 
quantity ot them here, 1 have not tried 
any other kindb) arc prtlcrable to tan- 
ner's bark. 

*' Firti, They always hear reg»ilar- 
ly ; for during the whole time that I 
have iifed tl^em, wliiclj is near ten 
years, I never once knew of the: r heat- 
ing With vi.ilence .; and this is fo fre- 
quently the cafe with tan, that I .Ttfirm, 
and indee ' it is vi-ell known to every 
perfon converfant in the maragen>ent 
of tl»e hot-lM>«ifc, that pines fufFer more 
from this one circuniitance than from 
all other accidents put rogeiler, in- 
fe«3s excepted. Wlien this accident 
happens near the time of their fiuiting, 
the etfsft is foon fcen in the fruit, 
v/hich always comei iil-lhaped and ex- 
ceedmgly fm<jll. Sometimes there will 
be little or no fruit at ail; therefore 
gardeners, who make ufc of tan only 
Jor rheir pines, (hculd be mofl parti- 
cuiarjy careful to avoid an over-heat at 
tliat critical Icafon — the time of ihcw- 
ing truit. 

" Secondly, the heat of oak-leaves 
is condant; whereas tanner's bark ge- 
nerally turns cold in a very fhort time 
after its furious heat is gone off. This 
oMiges the gardener to give the tan 
frequent turnings in order to promote 
k» heating. Thefe frequent turnings, 
not to mention the expences, are at- 
tended with the worit confequences; 
lor by the continual movin.' of the pots 
backwards and forwards, the pines are 
expofcd to the extremes of heat and 
cold, whereby their growth is conli- 
deiably retarded ; whereas, when leaves 
are ufed, the pines will have no occa- 
fion to be moved but at the tiiiMrs of 
potting, tic. — The pines have on-j par- 
ticular advantage in this undiflurbed 
fituation ; their roots grow thro' the 
bottoms of the pots and matt amon^/l 
llie leaves in a furprifing manner. — 
From the vigour of the plants, when 
Jn this fituation, it is highly probable 
that the leaver, even in this ilatc, af- 
ford tliem an uncommon and agreeable 
xiourifliment. 

*'• Thirdly, there iiafaving in point 



of rxpence, which is no inconfideraMc 
olj-.<;i in pl.ices where tan cannot he 
had Out from a great diliance, as is 
the cafe here, the article ot carriage 
amountmg to ten fhiilirgs for each 
vvaak:on-locd. Indeed, this was lite 
principal rcafrn that firfl induced mc 
to m.tke trial oi leaves. 

" My lall ground of prefer«>ce is 
the Ccrllrieraticn rliat decayed leave* 
niake go id manure; whereas lottea 
tan is experia^entally- found to be of 
no value. 1 have citen tried it both 
on fand and clay, alfo on wtt find <lry 
lands, and never ccu!d difccver, in any 
ot my expeiimenis, that it defeiS-td 
the name of a manure; whereas de- 
cayed Itaws arc the ri^hert, and, c: 
ail ethers, the mcfi fuitahle for a g.w- 
den. But tliis mull only be urKlerllood 
of leaves after they liave undergcn-E 
their fermentation, which reduces thera 
to a true vegetable n'.ould, in vihich 
we experimcntaily know that the food 
of plants is contained — but vihether 
that !ocd be oil, miiciia^r, or fait, or 
a ci mbinaticn o( all three, I leave to 
])h:l(.fopliers te determine. This I lads 
moiild is, of all otheis, the inc.'i pxi- 
per to n.ix with comprlt earth, and S 
life it in general lor pires, and almoft 
for all plants tliat grow in pots : For 
ficwers, it is rnoft excellent. 1 he re- 
mainder of this vegetal k nicu.d ji)a^' 
be tmplcycd in nr.ancring the quarters 
of t' e kitchen-garden, for which pur- 
pofeit is higlily uftful, 

" Leaves mixt with dunjj malit-ex- 
cellent hot-beds — and J f.nd that beds, 
ccmpoondtd in this manner, prefervt; 
their heat niucli longer than wl^ea 
n.ade entirely with dung." 

F.e defcribes the different ff ecles of 
infedfs with accuracy ; and the direc- 
tions he fives for then defJruflion are 
plain to every urderflandirg. It cc-n- " 
fifls in walhing the pine-pJants well 
with the Icliowing tiqi-.or : 

" Take one pctm-: of quicVtfjlver^ 
put it into a glaztd vefTcl. and poi>T 
U];on it one gallon of boiling water, 
v.'liich Jet liand till it bectnics cc'ld5 
then pour eft rhe water for i;fe. Re- 
peat this on the fan.e quickfjlvtr, ((<>r 
it will retain its power;} tiil a fufficier^t 
number of gallons are provided to fill 
a vtlTel intended fertile pur(;cfe.. One 
in the fotm of a troigh, 'hat will I old 
<)8ht or ten jjallons, is the molt -.on- 
vc^icnt^ 



PIN 



P I S 



wnient, ef,>cciaily lor the largefized 
plants. 

" Then to every gallon cf this mcr- 
euri^l wattr arid fix ounces of fott giccn 
foap, difTo.vtd in a |/oriion <;1 the pre- 
pireiiwatc. Ltt tlie mixture ftand 
tifl it beccmcj aliout milk- warm, 
wiiicii is ihe dcgt-t of warni'.h it mull 
be kept to during the time of ripping, 
which operation is peiformtd in the 
following niannei : 

" The pine plants being now ready, 
let them he put into the mixture, in 
which they Ihould lemain, with every 
parr covered, Kr the fpace of three 
minutes; then takr them oui, firl\ 
letting tliC tops decline for the mixture 
to drain out of their centres. The 
velTsl lliould be immediately filled with 
freih plants, and thofc t .ken out fet 
in the open -ir todiy, with tiieir roots 
downwiitd-; ; for by placing them in 
that polition, the mixture will defc.end 
and penetrate to the very bottom of the 
leaves in the centre of the plant, where- 
by the infects which are concealed rhere 
will be totally dellroyed. 

• " It "ill be proper to do this work 
in a fine day, and as ibon in th.e fore- 
noon as convenient, ti-.at the plants 
migiit have time to dry, which they 
will do in a fev\ hours, ano t!ien they 
niuft undergo the fame operation a fe- 
cond time. 

" In the next dipping, one table 
fpoonful of fweet oil fliouid be added 
to eveiy gallon of the mixture. If the 
oil and fome green foap fhould be put 
together, anJ a little piepucd boiling 
vvartr poured thereon, the oil will moft 
readily incorporate. 

'* The procefs of the fecond opera- 
tion being exaftly the fame as the fiirft, 
a repetition thereof is unnecefT^ry. 

" After tlie fecond dipping, afpunge 
fliould be ufed to remove any unfightly 
matter left on the leaves of the plants. 
They (hould then be fet to dry with 
their tops downwards, that the mix- 
ture may drain from every part ; for 
it is necedary that every part of the 
plant (hould be quite dry before it is 
planted. 

" For a twelvemonth after the de- 
l\ruftion of the infcifls, I cor.itantly 
keep a pound of quickfilverin a glazed 
veffel, at the bot-.om ol the ciitern 
%vhich contained the warei for the ufe 
«f the hot-houf^N Whuher the qnick- 



filver impregnated the water in fucb* 
manner a^ to be of any real ufe, 1 do 
not pretend to fay : hov\ever. this I 
can with truti) affirm, that I never 
faw pine plants grow wth greater vi- 
gour than thofe did at that time." 
Dwarf I' IK r. Tree Cieimander, 
/A'.A/ F;ne Apple. 5^* Penguin. 
PIN'K, S:c Carnation. 
PINT. A vcfTel or meafure contain- 
ing in quantit) fixtcen ounces ; half a 
quart; the eighth |>art of a gallon. ^'-, 

IMP. This is a diforder peculiar to /^^£),'f 
youngfowls, .;t;d ;;tnerally ai ifes fiom 
the want of wattr. The natuial moi- 
Aure of the rnouth in this caft hardens 
upon the end of the tongue into a kind 
of fcale,and this prevents their feeding. 
The greatefl care is ttquired to ob- 
ferve in time which of thtm have the 
difeafe. for thercmery 'n eafy. 

Let fome bay fait be melted in a little 
vinegar, and fet ready in a faucer.— 
Then let the young creatures be taken 
up and the fcale loofened, and then 
pulled off from the tongue with the 
fingers. Then wet the end of the 
tongue two or three times over with 
the vinegar and fait, and turn the chick 
loofe where i.c cannot drink for an 
hour. This will prevent a return. 

PIPE. A large vefTel for wine, equal 
to two barrels ; half a tun. 

Pipe Tree, (Syrin^aJ See Lilac. 
Puddirj Pipe Tree. See Cassia. 
PltTRlOCZ Buf;. 6V« Bareer R Y. 
Pissing cf Blood, in Horfes. Great 
care ihould be taken to obferve the 
quantity of urine made ; if there he too 
iriuch in proportion to the liquor drank, 
reltringents (hould be made ufe of, 
fuch as the following balls : 
Japon Earth, two ounces, 
Mithridaie, 

Diafcordium, each one ounce and a 

half, mix altogether in a pint and 

a half of forge water, and give it 

in a morning, repeating every 

th.ird morning. 

If on ilie other hard, urine is made 

In quai.iiy, and feems made with dif- 

ficuiry. 

Take Marfhmallow Roots, 

Liquorice Roots, each two ounces, 

boil in thiee pints of water to a 

quirt. DifTolve in it two ounces 

of Nitre, and give for a dofe night 

and morning. 

Let a clyfler be given, made of a 

Arong 



P L A 



P L A 



flrong dccodion of nurlhmallows and 
fweet oil. 

" This difurder in cows (fays a wri- 
ter in the Farmer's iviagaiinc) is often 
produced by a blow or alirain, and in 
either cafe is dangerous j peihaps more 
fo than if it proceeded Ironi an inward 
difordcr, as a mortiAcaiicn is mucli to 
be feared ; wliereas an exalted iJate of 
the urinous fjlts will fometimes pro- 
duce the diforder, but a hlow or ftrain 
to produce it muft not only do an ex- 
ternal violence to tl.e niufcles of the 
loins, (probably to the nerves them- 
felves) but alfo to the veffels of the 
kicJnies, and thofe which go from the 
kidnies to the bladder; and I have feen 
the whole in a llate of mortification, 
and this from a flrain wliicli has not 
been thought of fufficient confequence 
to require medicines ; — but remtmber, 
that ki your bealt cannot tell how great 
the injury is, you are to apply imiTie- 
diate remedies. 

Take away fome blood. If the beaft 
be coilive, give the following 
ennoUient clylltr, immediately : 
Miik gruel, three pints ; fweet 
cjl, half a pint. And afterwards 
the following anodyne clyller, 
twice or thiice a day : Sheep's- 
fcead broth, three pints ; liquid 
laudanum, one ounce. 
" Of all remedies in difeafes of the 
bladder or kidnies, clyflers are the mod 
to be depended en ; of which I was in- 
formed by an ingenious phyfical fiiend, 
who told me that in the moft violent 
tin of the gravel, retention of urine, 
&c. he chiefly depended on anodyne 
clyflers, which aded as a fomentarion 
to the parts immediately concerned, 
and gave a more immediate relief than 
medicines taken by the moutii. 

" Iftlie diforder proceed from a flrain 
or blovv, the loins fliould be bathed 
with Goulard's vegeto-mineral watei', 
and then covered with cloths. '1 he 
beall ftiould be kept up at houfc, and 
well fupplied with warm grucJ, oi ra- 
ther the folU>wing liquor : 

Take two dozen of white poppy 
heads, feeds and all; liquoiice, 
rnarfhmallow, and couch grafs 
roots, each lialf a pound ; nitre, 
and gum arable, each threeotinces, 
camphor, one ounce and a hall; 
boil in fix gallons vi water-gruel 
to four, and tlien add a pound of 



treacle. Give to the quantify cf 
two gallons daily, a little v.arnn, 

" Ditterent as the ;«hovc prtfuipiicrv 
may be to the common method j)u:fue(l 
by Cowleeches, 1 can lecomnund Jt 
not only as rational, hut fuccefsiul. 
Rertrlngcnis are unadvifeal^ie " 

PISHAMIN, cz-Peksimon, (Dio- 
fpyrus) .SVc Dai r Fll'M Trep. /t cT '/ 

PITCH 'J REE. 'ihe rir Tree, /■''« tni-^' 

PLANE TREE, (L'tmr.m ) Of 
tliis tree there are only twofpecies. c. 
The true Ea.'lern Plane-tree. This kind 
grows naturally in AHa, where it be- 
comes very large; the ftcm is tail, 
eieft, and covered with a fniooth I ark, 
which annually falls off; it fends out 
many fide-branches, which are gene- 
rally a little crooked at their joints j 
the bark of the young branches is of a 
dark brown, inclining to a purple co- 
lour; they are garnidied witli leaves 
placed .'ikernate ; their foot-ftalUp are 
an inch and a haif lonj; ; t'le leaves are 
feven inches long &eit;ht broad, deeply 
cut into five fegments, and the two 
outer are (lightly cut again into two 
mure; thefe fegments have many acute 
indentures on their hordes, and have 
each a firong mid-rib, witli many la- 
teral veins running to the fides; the 
upper fide ot the leaves is of a deep 
gieen, and the under lide pale. The 
fiowers corr.e out upon long foot»[ialks 
or ropes hanging downward, each fuf- 
taining five or fix round balls of fiow- 
ers ; tlie upper, which are the larceff, 
are rnore than four inches in circumfe- 
rence ; thefe fir very clofe to the f;;ot- 
flalks. The fiowers are fo fniail as 
fcarce to be diftinguifhed viithcuc 
glsfies ; they come out a little before 
the leaves, which is in the bt-^iniing 
of June; and in warm dimmers tiie 
feeds wiil lijjcn late in autumn, and if 
left upon the trees will rcnain liJl 
fpring, when the balls fall to pfeces, 
and the briltly down, which furrounrfs 
the feeds, helps to tranfport them to a 
great diltance wit!) the wii-.d. 
■t. Occ'idcr.tal or Vir^iman P icnc ttee. 

'1 his fort is naturally pioductd in 
molt parts ol North America ; it grows 
to a large fize, witli a firaight Acm of 
equal girt miA part of the length ; tlic 
bark is fi^coth. and annually falls oflf 
like that of the other ; the blanches 
extend wide on every Ma ; the yo mg 
ones have a brownilh bark, but on the 

old 



P L A 



P L A 



•U ones it is grey ; the foot-ftalks of 
the k.ives arc tliice inches If ng j the 
leavci arc (even inches long, and ten 
broid ; they ;iic* cut info three Jobes 
or angles, and have feveral acute in- 
dsntutes on their borders, with threc 
Ion'<itudit^al midiibs, and many flronj; 
lateral veins. Thekavts arc of a light 
g ttn en tlicir U|'per(ide, a'd paiercn 
thcj.r under. 'i lie fl.ivvtrs grow m 
fuund hails like tlie former, hut -if.: 
fro .Her, The leaves and flowers come 
cut at the (amc time with the forixier, 
and the feeds ripen in autumn. 

The flowers come out late in the 
fpring, and are fo fmall as fcarcely to 
be vifihle to the naked eye. The huds 
of the leaves of the oriental fort begin 
to fwfll about tlie fourteenth of April, 
and the leaves are generally out by the 
latter end of the fame month. 

Befidts the two fpecies already de- 
fcrthed there are two varieties : i. The 
Spaniih Plane-tree ; z. The Maple- 
ieaved Plane-tree. 

The Spaniih Plane-tree has larger 
leaves than either of the oti.er forts ; 
tl'.ey are more divided than thofeof the 
Occidental, but not fo much as the 
Eaiterrj. Some of the leaves are cut 
into five and others into thiee Icbes ; 
thcfc arelharpiy indented on the edges, 
and are of a light gre-n 5 the foot-llalks 
are Ihort, and covced with a fhort 
down. This is by fome called the 
Middle Plane-tree, from its leaves be- 
ing (h3|)ed between thofe of the two 
cthei forts. It grows rather falter than 
either of the other kinds. 

The jMaple- leaved Plane-tree differs 
from the two genuine fpecies, in hav- 
ing its leaves not fo deeply cut as the 
Eal^ern. nor lohed as the VVeftern kind. 
The foot-ftalks of the leuves are much 
ioneer than thofe of the above forts, 
and the upper fuiface of the leaves is 
rougher. 

I'he Oriental and Spanifh Plane-trees 
are propagated Irom feeds, when they 
c.in be procured ; but whoever enjoys 
not this convenience, mu'^ have re- 
courfe to layers. The ground proper 
tor the feiwinary fl^ouk! be moilt and 
fiiady, wed dug, and raked till the 
mould is fine ; then, in the autumn, 
foon alter the feeds are lipe, let them 
be fcattered over this ground, and the 
feeds raked in, in the fame manner as 
turnip-feeds. In the fpring many et 



the young plants will come up, though 
you mull net expeft the general crop 
till the fccond year; the fpiing after 
which they may be tal.cTi out ot the 
femin.iry, and planted in the nurfery 
in rows one yard afundcr, and at ore 
loot and a half diflance in the rows. 
Here they mny remain, witii the ufual 
care of digging between t'lC rows and 
k'.-eping them clean, t II titey are ot fu£- 
fici.nt lize ta'p'^ni ' "' '^t good 

Where the feeds ot theie trees cannot 
be procured, layering mull be the me- 
thod of propagation. For this purpofe 
a fuivicicnt tiumber mult be r'.^r.ted out 
for itools on a fpot of earth dcubledug. 
Alter tiiey have (food one year, they 
fhould be cut down, in order to make 
them throw out young "ood tor lay- 
ering. The autumn following ihefe 
ihuuld be laid in the ground, with a 
little nick in the joint; ar.^; by thac 
time twelvemonths they will be trees 
of a yard hig!i, with a good root, ready 
to be planted in the nurfery, where 
they may be managed as thelecdlings ; 
and as the (tools will have (hot up 
frefh young wood for a fecond opera- 
tion, this treatment may be contmued 
ad iititutn. 

The Occidental Plane-tree is propa- 
gated by cuttings; which if they are 
trtkcn from (Irong young wood, and 
planted early in the autumn, in a moid 
good mould, will hardly fail of fue- 
ceeding. They are generally planted 
thick, and then removed into the nur- 
feiy-ground, as the layers ot the other 
fort : But if a large piece of moid 
ground was ready, the cuttings might 
be [ilaced at fuch a diltance as not to 
approach too clofe before they were of 
a futRcitnt fize to plant out for good ; 
and this would fave the expence and 
trouble of a removal. The Oriental 
Plane-tree will grow from cuttings, 
but not fo certainly as this ; and who- 
ever has not the convenience of proper 
ground for the cuttings of either, muft 
have recourfe to layers with this tree 
alb; which, mdeed, is always the 
fuieiland mofteffertual method. 

Plane-trees tlelight in a moii> fitu- 
ation, efpecially the Occidental lort ; 
vvherj the land is inclined to be dry, 
and Plane-trees are defired, the other 
kinds are to be preferred. Kut in moift 
places, by the lides of rivulets, ponds, 
&c:. the Occidental makes fuch fur- 
prifinj 



P L A 



P L A 









prifing progrcfi as Induces me to think 
that it riiivht be ranked amon<!;ft the 
Aqu.itici, without any impropriety. 

PLANTAIN, {P/unta^c.) There 
arc two kind:, of this plant, the narrc-.v 
and hroad-leaved, both common in 
fields and by road-!'.des. The leaves 
are ii^htly aftringcnt, and the feeds 
faid to be fo J and hence they ftand re- 
commended m hsemcrrhaees, and otl'.er 
cafes wiiere medicines of this kind arc 
proper. I'he leaves bruifcH a iiitic, 
are the ufual apalication of the com- 
mon people to flight flefh wounds. — 
The Edinburgh colbge diredi an ex- 
tract to be made from t!ie leaves. 

Plant.ain Tree. .">a Hanas.^, 

Pl.^ntain Shot. Imian Cane. 
Sft Cam. 

PLANTATIOXS. Plantations of 
trees, i:c. greatly embelliHi and im- 
prove eitates, as well as ornameiit the 
adjacent country; and thofe formed 
into wcods for timber-trees, prove not 
only very beneficial to the owners, but 
may he faid to be a public convenieiice 
to the country around, to ii.'ive the op- 
portunity of purchafing wood in the 
neighbourhood, for the various pur- 
pofes of biiildings, fencings, making 
all forts of hufbandr; impJements, as 
carts, wjccons, ploughs, &c. and far- 
innumerable other ufes; aifo forfui- 
nifbing fuel, a very efftntial article. 

In former ages, thii ifland abound- 
ed in natural plantations or forerts, 
which fpread themfelves over the fur- 
face of the country, to a very confidcr- 
able extent, and v^erecompofed of vari- 
ousfortsoflcfty trsesof prodigiousm jg- 
niiude, all blendeH promifcuoufly to- 
gether, and all of fpontaneous growth. 
Thofe vafl forefts were never planted 
by any human hand, fuch only have 
been employed for ages in cutting them 
down ; for in many places tliere were 
fuch a profufion of ufelefs wood, that 
large tradls were obliged to be cleared 
by degrees, in order to cultivate the 
ground for other purpofes ; which, to- 
gether with the necciTary demands for 
the timber from time to time for build- 
ings, &c. and that owners of eAates, 
reaping confiderable advantage from 
the fale of their timber, continued hy 
degrees, one generation after another, 
gruobing up their timber without mfta- 
furc j and few ever planted any in lieu 
of what they cut down ; fo tl.at in 

Vol. II. 



many parts there is almof^ a «:cnfrjl 
demolition of woodland, .ind many 
confiderable crtates have fcircely any 
timber of v«luc left fJandinj, wbtTicC 
comes the prti'ent fcjuity in many 
parts of tlie kingdom. 

£very putTclfor of eil^ates, either of 
large or moderate extent, will reap 
great pltafure and advantage in dedi- 
cating fomc fhare of his land to plan- 
tations; lor in cflatcs of wliatfoever 
e,x.tent, they give grandeur and orna- 
ment to t!ie premifcs, as well as an air 
of fertility and riches ; ^.nd thofe large 
plantations defigned for woods, will, 
alter the firfl eight or ten years, bring 
in great profit by a gradual thinning of 
the underwood, beilrfes leavinv; a fuf- 
ftciency of ftandards to attain full 
growth : in ttie mean tinrie ihe planta- 
tions in general will contribute exc;.ed- 
inj^ly to the beauty of the e(tate ; for 
how delightfully it is for trawUers to 
behold the noble plantation^ in groves, 
thickets, cl'jrnps, &-c. varjoufly difpofcd 
in parks, and on the boundaries of 
fpacious lawns, and the like places, 
formed of a great variety of beautiful 
trees and (hrubs, and to fee grand ave- 
nues of lofty growth, leading to cr 
from a ftately manfion, or fonie rr.ain 
road, or fome adjacent town ; and in 
ilie out-grounds to ohferve the Planta- 
tions of woodlands, Szc. ranging alting 
tiie fides of hiih, plains, and other 
grounds occaftonally ; but in eAates, 
how fertile foever the foil, yet it ap- 
pears naked and bar-en without a pro- 
per fhare of piantaticns ; on the other 
hand, when eflates are beautifully di- 
verfified with plantations, the whole 
may be faid to form a fort c! pleafure- 
garden ; efpecially as in the homeward 
plantations we may have comnicdious 
walks of gravel and fand, b^th private, 
fliady, and fheltered walks, occafionally 
difpofed in rKany winding turn> in the 
fcrpentine way, bordered with hardy 
fhrubs and fiowers, which will afford 
mof^ agreeable walking at almoft any 
feafon of the year, as in fummer they 
afford a fcreen fiom the vehetncnt heat 
of the fun, and at otiier times fhelter 
from boiderous winds, and cold pier- 
cing blafts ; there may be aifo here and 
there recelTes or places cf retirement, 
Jea«!ing by privat* turnings from the 
principal walks, with gladi.ngs or open- 
ings of grafi-ground in thf midft of 

H b ibe 



P L A 



P L A 



the moft extended parts of the pbn- 
tdtionb. 

No land-lioloer, therefore, let the 
exttnt be almolt ever fo moderate or 
coniJde able, but ought to appropriate 
a piopoition^hlc (hare to commodious 
p'uiuations a^ fuon as pofTible, either 
lot orn iment or emolument, or both, 
vvliere the txte;:t will admit, as tlieie 
is hardly any eftata that does not afford 
foil and lituation proper for the culti- 
vation of all our haidy trees, &c. and 
in many pUces often furnifh foils im- 
proper for gr.-ifs and corn, yet adapted 
t . tlie growtli of many forts of trees, 
which would form good plantations, 
and fecure to the planter and his pofte- 
lity a future pleafure and revenue of 
comiderahlt importance. 

In fliort, there is hardly any foil fo 
barren and untrai£lable but what will 
rear a growth of trees and flirtibs of 
fome fpecies or other, both for orna- 
ment and advantage j and there is 
fcarci'ly any kind of tree fo bad but 
may be laifcd to one or other of thofe 
purpofss : any very poor ground, or 
fuch that lies wafte, or at a great dif- 
tance, cannot be better improved than 
in pla.uations j even although a tradl 
of land fhould be fo poor as to rear 
noiMng but a crop of afpen trees, al- 
der, and willows, yet the profits even 
of tliefeprodi)£lions will greatly exceed 
whai many may tliink. 

So tliat there is a great number of 
examples to encourage, and warrant 
fuccefs in plantations, to reward not 
only with the ple.ifure of ornamenting 
our lands, and that of beholding their 
growth, but alfo with profit fiifTicient 
to compehfate amply for the tradl of 
land occupied, and labour in planting. 

But to many pcifons, the necelFary 
expence attending the making a plan- 
tation, and knowing that they mull 
wait fevcra) years before the trees have 
made any confiderable progrtfs, or can 
reap any advjntage theiefroni, often 
proves an ohftacle in attempting the 
profccution of that bufinefs j but as to 
the expence of planting, it you raife 
theplants in your own grounds, it will 
not prove near fo great as many mi^ht 
imagine, efpeciaiiy as a frndl fpot of 
feminary or nurfcry-groend ^vill raife 
plants enough in three or four years to 
plant a great many acres of land; both 



ornamental and woodland ; and by the 
latter, the expence of raifin^ .ind plant- 
ing them, t'.>gether with the lofs of 
time in waiting a few years till the 
plants attain fome growth, will be 
compenfated by the firit fall or thinning 
of the underwood, in eight or ten years 
after planting; ana the flooh or roots 
remaning fhoot up agiin, and afford 
a lopping every eight or ten years, ex- 
clufivc of the due portion of ftandards 
left at proper dif^ances, to attain full 
growth for timber, as aforefaid. 

One particular precaution in mak- 
ing, plantations, is the judiciotis choice 
of fuch trees as are t!ie befl adapted to 
the nature of particular foils, which 
may vary exceedingly in elates of great 
extent ; however, fuch trees as we find 
daily growing by road-fides, hedge- 
rows, and in any adjacent grounds, are 
rough fketches of what the land will 
produce. 

As to the forts of trees and fhrubs 
proper for plantations in general, there 
is a vail variety, both of the deciduous 
and ever-green tribes, that will profper 
in the open ground in any common 
foil. 

It is of importance, in making any 
confiderable plantation, to chufe prin- 
cipally young plants, of from about 
two or three to five or ten feet ftature, 
which always prove more fuccefsful 
than older trees ; for although fame 
perfons, being in halte to hive planta- 
tions as forward as pcfrihK in a few 
years, tranfplant tall trees, perhaps 
twelve or fifteen feet high or more, 
particclarly for ornamental plantations, 
yet younger growth always take root 
fooner, and more firmly eftablifh them- 
felves, fo as to form confiderably the 
fineft plantations at lafl, and be of 
longeft duration ; for although large 
trees of from ten to twenty feet height, 
efpeciaiiy of the deciduous kind, may 
wiih care be tranfplanted, fo as to 
grow and probably thrive tolerably for 
fomc years, yet trees more than twelve 
or fifteen feet high often fail, by not 
rooting firmly like young plants, and 
after fome years flanding, have hardly 
made any fhoots, and at laft gradually 
dwindle and perifh ; thirefore large 
trees fhould never be employed for 
plantations only on particular occafi- 
ons, where a few may be necelTary to 

for.Ti 



P L A 



P L A 



form an immediate fliadc or blind, fic. 
in fonie |)articular place; but for ge- 
neral work, be perfuaded to employ 
chiet^y young plants, eiilier oi ^our 
own raifing, or puichafcd from the 
nurferies. And for limber plant.it/cns 
in particular, fuch plants fhould be 
cholen as are only from a')Out two cr 
tJiiee, to five or fix feet in height. 

All the diffcre-ir forts of trees and 
ftvrubs, proper both for ornamental and 
timber plantations, may be had at all 
the public nurferies moderately reafon- 
able ; thou^ii pet fens, accommodated 
with fcope of ground, may eafily raife 
all the forts fcr their own private ufe : 
A fmallnurfery will raife trees and 
flirubs enough to plant many acres of 
land. 

Obferve, that where phntations are 
Intended principally for ornament, as 
great a variety as pofTible of the diffe- 
rent forts of hardy trees and fhrubs 
fhould l)e employed, to afford the e reater 
fource of entertainment ; and fhould 
confift both of lofty and middling trees, 
down to the liumblell fhrub; difpo- 
fmK the deciduous and evergreen plants 
principally in feparate compartments j 
fometimes arranging the tree- kinds by 
thcmfelves j fome in running irregular 
plantations, towards the boundaries of 
ipacious lawns, parks, paddocks, &c. 
others in avenues, groves, thickets, 
and clumps, as aforefaid, varioufly dif- 
pofed in different parts ; and fometimes 
arranging the trees and fhrubs together, 
in forming flirubberiei, wildernefs, 
fhady walks, and wood-works j pla- 
cing the taller growth backward, and 
the lower in front ; bordering the 
whole with the molt beautiful flower- 
ing fhrubs, and fliowy ever-greens, ef- 
peciaily next the principal v;alks and 
lawns ; obferving to vary the form of 
all the feveral compartments, fome- 
times by bold fvveeps and curves out- 
ward and inward, of different dimen- 
sions, other parts in long eafy bends, 
irregular projections and breaks, foas 
to diverfify the fcene in imitation of a 
natural plantation. Allow all the 
forts proper diltances, which may be 
from five or ten to fifteen or twenty 
feet ; for example, the tall trees defign- 
pd for continued plantations may be 
from ten to fifteen or twenty feet, va- 
, Tying the dif^ance in different parts, 
according as ligl^t ^nij fhade,. &;c, may 



be proper; and thofe in grcrcs may, 
if open grove.', be attiiteeiior twenty 
lect diftance, and tlufe groves ten or 
twelve; for thickets, five or fix leet, 
or cloftr in particular places, vvhere a 
very dntk fliade, or thick coverture of 
wood is requiied ; and in clumps of 
trees, may allow from five or ten to 
twenty feet between the trce^ in each 
ciumj), varying the di'.lance occafion- 
al)y, as alfo the forts and numbers of 
trees in each, from two or three to ten 
or more : likewife the form of the 
clumps ; fome may be aiangular, others 
quadranguiai-, pentangular, &c. and 
fome in curves, others in ftraight lines, 
tocaufethe greater variety. And as 
to the fhrubbery clumps, and wilder- 
nefs com.partments, v^-here the trees 
and flirubs are employed promifcuoufly 
together, they may be planted from 
five to ten feet diftant : the taller 
growth being jjlaced backward eight or 
ten feet afunder, placing the lower 
plants gradually forward according to 
their gradation of ftature, to the low eft 
in front, as above ol)feived, at four cr 
five feet diftance : and if the tiees and 
fhrubs of the plantations in genei al are 
difpofed fomcwhat in the quincunx 
way, they will appear to the gieater 
advantage. 

But when defigned to form large 
plantations into woods, &c. compofed 
principally of fcreft and timber-teees 
for profit, particular fores mull be cho- 
fen, confifring both of deciduous and 
ever-green trees. Oi the deciduous 
kinds chufing the oak, elm, afh, beesh, 
chefnut, hornbeam, birch, alder, ma- 
ple, fycamore, plane-tree, poplar, lime- 
tree, walnut-tree, wild clierry-tree, 
mountain-afh, larch-tree, willow-trce, 
hazel-tree, Sec. and of the ever greens, 
the pine-trees, firs, cedar of Lebanon, 
holly-tree, bay-tree, laurel tree, yew- 
tree, ever-green oak, box tree, and 
fome others. The particular defcrip- 
tion and culture of all which forts, de- 
ciduous and ever-greens, are exhibited 
in their proper genera. They are all 
hardy, and will grow in aimofl any 
common foil, rich or poor, anci moffly 
alfo in dry or moift ground, high or 
low; allotting, however, particular 
forts to very low marfhy foils, fuel, as 
the willow, fallow, and ofier, po| ar, 
alder, and other aquatics, whichv. lil 
profper in places that are in a manner 
B b -j: covered 



P L A 



P L A 



(.overed with water, and are the moft 
jiropcr torts for ttie cmliellilhiiiB; and 
improvement of fuel) giound., ; all the 
other fons will fuccctd in any other 
more upland'place* out of water j ob- 
ferving, with rtlptft to difpofition, the 
deciduous and evergreens (hould ge- 
neral!; be feparate, as obferved for tlie 
ornamental plantations. But the trees 
ol the fame tribe niay fometimca be in- 
termixed, and fometimcs difilrent forts 
in feparate diviiions or quarters, as 
oaks in one, elms in another, &:c. re- 
maikinc: like\vil#n timber plantations, 
that all the trees Hiould be planted 
pretty cloie togsther, i. e. not more 
than three or four (eet diflance, in or- 
der that they may mutually draw ejch 
othtr up tali, more expcditioufly, and 
to allow for a gradual thinning, as 
hereafter direfted. 

In forming woods, however, or plan- 
tations ol timber-trees, the lollowini; 
hints in relpcft to planting them are 
proper to be oblerved. 
" Let it therefore be remarked, that 
there are two metiiods pradlifed in 
forming plantations of woodlands j one 
is by raifing tiie trees from feed at once 
on the ground where the plantation is 
intended to be, efpecially of the deci- 
duous kind, and is effefted by fowincj 
the f&ed in diills, a yard afunder, and 
the plants always to remain where rai- 
fed, thinning them gradually, the other 
method is by previoufly raifmg the 
plants in a nurfery, till two or three 
feet high, then tranfplanting tRem into 
places allotted them, in rows of the 
above diflance, to allow alfo for gra- 
dually thinning. 

Either oi th.fe two methods may be 
praftifed, as Ihall feem moft conveni- 
ent to the owner ^ but the former, 
namely, railing the plants where they 
arc to remain, although it may be 
more expeditious, and at once get rid 
of the trouble of tranfplantaticn, yet 
they will require greater attendance for 
a few years, till the plants have iliot 
op out cf the way of weeds ; but 
on the other hand, the trees always re- 
m.vining where raifed, not dillurbed by 
removal, probably may make the great- 
er progrefs. The latter method, how- 
eve.--, of raifmg the trees fiiii in a nur- 
fery, is rather the mo(t commonly 
praiflifcd, as being thought the lealt 
troublefomc and expenfive, with re- 



gard to the attendance at firrt of the 
young growth. However, every one 
is at liberty to make the experiment as 
it fuits his convenience. 

The preparation of the ground for 
the final reception of the feed or pla ts 
of thefe plantations, is by deep ] lough, 
ing and harrO'.vjng, upon fucli groui d 
wl-.ete the plough can be employed j 
wl'.ere this, however, or any otiier til- 
lage, is, not pradlicable, we muft ufe 
only young plants from rlie nurfery, 
making holes, Szc. at [;roptr dirtances, 
for the reception of each plant : where, 
however, the ground can I.e tilted, it 
will prove very advantageous, per- 
forming it previoufly a year at lead 
before; fowing it with a crop of tur- 
neps, or the like : when thefe come 
off, well plough and harrow tlie ground 
again, for the reception either of the 
f^ed or plants the enfuing feafon. 

The mort proper feafon to perform 
thia planting, either by Ted or plants, 
is any time in dry mila weather, from 
Oflober or November till February, 
tliMug!) November and February are ra- 
ther the moft eligible for moft kinds 
of hardy tree feeds: however, where 
large trac'ls are to be planted, both 
methcds muft be purfued all winter, 
at every favourable opportunity. 

If feed is intended, you muft be well 
provided with feeds of the feveral de- 
ciduous trees in particular, which ma/ 
be obtained at all the nurferies and 
eminent feed-fhops j then, for its re- 
ceptiop, draw furrows or drills about 
two or three inches deep, and three or 
four feet afunder, fcatter the feed along 
the middle of the drills, and cover the 
earth evenly over them, the depth of 
the diills or furrows, and place fcare- 
crows and traps to guard againft the 
infults of birds and vermin. 

But if defigned to form the planta- 
tion with young plants, previoufly 
raifed in beds in the nurfery by tlie 
common method, let the following 
praAice be obferved : Cliufe always 
yourg plants, only from two to three 
or five or fix feet high ; and jf very 
large plantations are intended, you 
may, to fave time and trouble, take tlie 
plants immediately fro.Ti the feed-bed, 
when one or two feet high, without 
giving them any previous tranfplanta- 
tion in the nurfery ; though where the 
plantations are but moderate, it is mofi 
eligiblf 



P L A 

eligible to pl.int tliem out prevJ'ufly in 
nuifcry rows, to liavc two or ttuee 
years growth : but for remarkable lar'^e 
^^'Ijntaiicns, tliii would be a very prtat 
trouble and cxpentc. Bciog, however, 
{urn\(Yied with young {>lants, they .'ire 
to be planted in rows, tliree or four 
ftet afundcr, as direftcd for the feed, 
and one or two feet apart in tb.e lines : 
they may be planted either by opening 
fmall apertures or holes with the I'pa-ie 
for each plant j or, it very fmall plants, 
it is fometimes periormed by making 
only a flit or crevice witli the fpaJe for 
each plant ; and fome open fmall 
(renchcs the whole length, then cne 
inferts the plants whiUt another trims 
in the earth about their roots : feme 
again, in very large trads, where the 
situation admits ct good ploughing and 
harrowing to divide and break tlie 
earth into fmall ) articles, open fur- 
rows with a ploiigl), two. perfcns be- 
ing employed in depofiting the trees in 
the fuuows, whiHt the plough follow- 
jng immediately with anotlier furrow, 
covers the roots ot the plants with the 
wrth thereof. 

The ground where the above plan- 
tations are made fliould IjC prtvioufly 
fenced ail round with a deep ditch, &c. 
to guard againfl the encroachments of 
cattle. 

Whilft thefe plantations are young, 
they muft have fome attendance to 
deftroy weeds, which may be expedi- 
tjoufly executed by hoeing between the 
rows in dry weather, particularly by 
lion'e-hoeing ; and this care will be 
needful for two or three years, efpe- 
cially the fcedling plantation-, till the 
trees are advanced out of the reach of 
weeds ; after which no farther trouble 
will be required until the nees are 
ready for the fit II fall or thinning, fcr 
poles, faggots, &c. 

In eight or ten years growth, tiiey 
will be of a proper lize to begin the fivft. 
fall by a moderate thinnii.g, which 
will ferve for poles and faggot- wood, 
to pay towards the expence of plant- 
ing, &c. but begin lopping only part 
of the plantation tiie firllyearj thin- 
ning out theweakeft and moft unpro- 
niifing gvwth f.rh; leaving a fuffi- 
ciency of the moft vigorous plants 
pretty clofe, to grow up for larger pur- 
pofes ; the year following begin thin- 
ning another part, and fc continue an 



P L A 

annu.il thinning fall till got throiij'^ 
the who.e plantation ; cutting each tall 
down uear the grour>d, leaving ilie 
ftools to fhoot out agjjn, efpecially of 
the deciduous kinds, and hy that time 
yon have made the laft fall, the lir/t 
will have fhot up, and ready to be cut 
again j fo the returns of fallings may 
be contrived to be every fix, feven, 
elglit, or ten years, or more, accoid- 
ing to the uim the poles or wood are 
wanted for ; and if larger poles, &c. 
are wanted, the fall nii.y be only once 
in fourteen, eighteen, or twenty years, 
ftill, ateveiyfa'i, being careful always 
to leave enough of the mort thriving 
plants for final flandards ; leaving 
them pretty clofe at firft, that tliey may 
mutually draw each other up in height ; 
but may be thinned every fucceedirig 
fall as they encreafe in bulk, and meet, 
fo as to leave a fuff.cient quantity of 
the principal trees at pioper di fiances 
to grow up to tinibcr, wliic';, in their 
tutn, as they become' fit foi the pur- 
po'es intend>.d, may alfo be felled ac- 
cording as there may be a demand for 
them to the moft advantage ; having 
young ones from the 'lools coming up 
in proper fuccjfllon as fubftituteb, fo 
as the groui.d may be always occupied. 

PLANTIN'.", Planting is the art 
of iniciting plants, feeds, ard roots, 
in the earth, tor the purpofe of vegeta- 
tion. 

There are various methods of plants 
jng in pradicc lor diflerenl foits of 
plants, I'eedn, and roots ; fuch as holtt 
planting, trench planting, trenching- 
in planting, fiit or cievice planting, 
fioleing-in planting, diiil planting, 
bedding-in planting, furrow plantinsr, 
dibble planting, planting with balls of 
earth abf.ut the :cot, planting in pots, 
&c. all of whlcii intthoJs of planting 
ate cccaf:on;II)' ufed by diftercnt prac- 
titioners in thefeveral branches of gar- 
dening, according as the feverai me- 
thods fliall fcem moft eligible for dif- 
ferent o^ particular f rts of j>lants. 

I. Ihjle-Pli:r.tii:g. — This is the prin- 
cipal metliod piMftifed in the hr..! 
planting of all forts of tree- and fhrubs 
in the full >;round, by opening with a 
fpade round holes in tint ground, at 
certain diftanccs, one for the reccpiich 
of each plant. Each hole fhould be 
digged capacious enough to admit all 
the roots of tiie tree or Ihrub freely 
every 



P L A 



P L A 



every way to llieir full fpread, with- 
out loiicliing the liHes ol the Iiolc, and 
about one fpade deej), oi a little more 
orlcfj, or according to tilt fize of tlic 
roots, foas, wlien pjanttd, tlie upper- 
mod ones may be only about tiiree 
inches below tlie common furfdce, or 
about as low as they were belorc in 
the grcund, which is dircoveial.li; hy 
examining the bottum of the item of 
the tree j thouj^li in very moid foils, 
where the water is apt to Hand, the 
holes fliould lathtr be fhatlow, fo as 
the uppermod roots may (land full as 
liigli as the general level, or iiigher if 
it (liaLl fc-em necefTary, raifing the 
ground about them, tf|.-ccially in win- 
ter plaming : let the Iioles, however, 
he ui" a pro[-.cr width and depth, ac- 
cording to the above rules, loofening 
the bottom wcj! 5 and if too deep, it 
is eafily remedied in the time of plant- 
ing, by Ihaking up the tree as you (hall 
feeoccafion; oblerving in digging out 
each hole, to lay tiie earth in a lieap 
clofe to the edge, in ordsr to be ready 
to till in again ; the h .les being ready, 
then, having tiimmtd the roots, &c. 
»f the trees, place one tree in the 
middle of the hole, making all its 
roots fpread equally around, a per- 
fon hcluing the plant ereft by the 
rttm, whilfl another with his fpade 
cads in the earth about t!ie roots, tak- 
ing particular care to break all lari;e 
clods, and trim in fome of the fineft 
mould fi;d all round about the roots 
in general, shaking tl'.e tree occafionally, 
to caufe the fine foil to fall in clofe 
among all the fmail roots and fibres ; 
at the fame time, if the tiee dands too 
deep, (iiake it up gtntly to the proper 
height, and having filled in the earth to 
the top of the hole, tread ir gently all 
round, fiid round the outfide to fettle 
the earth clofe to tlie extreme roots, 
continuing the treading gradually to- 
wards tlie rtem, to which tread the 
mould moderately firm, but no where 
too hard, only juft to fettle the earth, 
and deady the plant in an upright po- 
fuion: then pare in all the remaii^ng 
earth eve nly round t!ie tree, to the 
width of the hole, raifmg it fomcwhat 
above the general level of the ground, 
tc allow for fettling, giving it alfo a 
gentle tread, and finifii it off a little 
hollow at top, bafcn-like, the better to 
receive ^nd retain the moifture from 



rains, . and occafional waterings m 
fpiingantl fnmmci, particularly to the 
choicer kindb of tiee^ and fhrubs. 

Afier per(oimmg this planting, if 
in winter, cr late in fpiing, it may be 
o( advantage to the clioicei kinds of 
trees and fhrubs to mulch them, i. e. 
to lay fome long mulch at top of all 
the earth, both to keep out the winter's 
frodj and prevent the diying winds 
and drought of fpring and fummtr 
from penetrating to the roots before the 
tiees are well rooled in i!itir r.ew quar- 
ters. But fome, inftead of mulch, ufe 
grafs turfs, turned topfy-turvy, efpe- 
cially when planting upon any grafs 
ground, or any out-plantations where 
turfs of grafs can be obtained; or in 
orchards, where the ground is grafs ; 
in which cafe it may be proper to bank 
fome turfs round the fides and top of 
each hole, particularly lor laige trees, 
which will deady them more efie£lu- 
ally, as well as preferve the moiflure, 
if much dry weatiier fliould happen 
the fucceeding fummcr. 

The above work, however, of mulch- 
ing or turfing new-planted tree?, is 
not abfrlutely necelTary toourtomrnon 
hardy kinds of fruit-trees, foreft-trees, 
and ihriibs; though it may prove be- 
neficial to all forts, but more particu- 
larly to the more tender kinds ot wall 
fruit-trees, and more delicate forts of 
flowering- fltrubs, choice ever-greens, 
and fome l^.inds of herbaceous peren- 
nials. 

2. Trench Planilr.?. — This method is 
fomctimes praftifef in the nurfery-way, 
in putting out fecdling and other fmall 
trees and fhrubs in rows ; U alfo ufed 
for planting box edgings ; fometimes 
likewifefor pLnting fmall hedge-fcts, 
&c. and always in planting yifparagutf 
and is performed by opening a long 
narrow trench with a fpade, making 
one fide tipright, fo place the plants 
againd the upright fide, and turn the 
earth in upon their roots. 

3. Trenchir.g-ln Planting.^ This is 
alfo fometimes praflifcd in light pli- 
able-woiking ground, for planting 
young trees in the nurfery-way, and 
fometimes in planting hcdge-fets, &c, 
and is performed by digging along by 
a line, about one fpade wide, and 
planting as you go on. The method 
is this : a line is fet, tlien having the 
plants re.idy, and with your fpade be- 
ginning 



P L A 



P L A 



ginning at one end, and fianding Me- 
ways to the line, tlirow out a fpit of 
earth, which forming a fma'.l aperture, 
anoilier perfon being ready with tlie 
plants, lie direiily dcpcdts cne in th.s 
opening, whillt the ditiP^r proceeds 
with the digging one fpanc wide, co- 
vcra the roots of the plants with the 
earth of the next fpit ; and another 
aperture being theieby alfo fotmed, 
place therein another plant, the digger 
rtill proceedin;-', covers its roots, as 
betors, with the next fpit of earth, 
and fo on to the end of the rowj pla- 
cing theni at ahout a foot, or fifteen cr 
eighteen inches afundtr, according to 
the fizeot the plants ; obftrvjng, when 
planting larger tt^es with more fpread- 
ing roots, by this method, ihat i:.(lead 
of digging the trench only one fpade 
wide, two may probably be requifue 
for the proper reception of the roots ; 
Jike\\ife in forming the opening for 
each plant, make it capacious enough 
to receive the roots freciy, dijjging the 
earth over them as above. After hav- 
ing planted one rov^', either fmall or 
large plants, tread the earth evenly 
along to fettle it to the roots, and tlea- 
cy the plants all equally upright. 

4. Slit P/jniirg.] — This method is 
performed Hy making flits or crevices 
with a fpade in the ground, at parti- 
cular diilances, for the reception of 
fmall trees and fhrub plants. A flit 
being made for each plant, which are 
inferted as you go on ; and is praftifed 
fometimes in the nurfery-way. Sec. in 
putting out rows of fmall plants, 
fuckers, ^. at from about a foot to 
eighteen inches or two feet high, and 
that hive but fmall roots j it is alfo 
fometimes pradlifed for final planting 
in ojt-grounds, wheie very large trafts 
of forelt- trees are intended, and that 
they are to be planted out at the above 
fxzsi, and by the txiull exp«ditious and 
cheapeft method of planting j the fol- 
lowing is the mtthcd. 

A line is fct, or a m^rk made accord- 
ingly ; then having a quantity of plants 
ready, for they inuil be planted a,- you 
proceed in making the flit', a man 
therefore having a good ckan fpade, 
he ftrikes it into the giouiid with its 
back dofc to the i ne cr mark, foims 
a crevice, taking it out avi^m diieftly, 
foas to leave rhe flit open, give-, another 
fUoke at ri^ht angles with the firit, 



then the peifon with the plants Inferts 
one immediatti^ into the feccnd-made 
crevice, brineing it up dole to the tint, 
and dirtflly piefs the earth clofe to the 
plant with tie foot; proceeding in the 
f.inie mannti to infert another plant ; 
and fo on till all ia finiflied, which is a 
very expeditious way oi putting out 
fmail plants, for any ccnfidcrable plsn- 

ttion. A rr:an and a boy by this 

method will plant ten or fitteen hun- 
ditd, or more in a day. 

5. Ht'e'r^-in Piar.t':ng.'\ This if 

fometimes uled in the nurfery way in 
light loofe ground, alfo fometimes in 
plantine potatoes, &c. in pliable foils. 

The ground being previoufly digged 
or trenched, and a line placed, they 
proceed thus : a perfon wit'.i his fpade 
takes out a fmall fpit of earth, to form 
a little apeiture, in which another per- 
fon diredly depofits a plant, &c. the 
digger at the fame time taking another 
fpit at a little diltance, turns the earth 
chcreoi intr the firll hole over the roots, 
pl'icinj direc'^ly another plant in this 
fecond open ng, the digger covers it 
with the eartli of a third, and fo on to 
the end of the row. 

6. Dri.! Piantir?.'] — This is by cr.iw- 
ing drills with an hoe from two to tour 
cr five inches deep, for the reception 
of feeds and roots, and is a commo- 
dious method of planting many forts 
of large feeds, fuch as walnuts, chef- 
nuts, and the like ; fometimes alfo 
broad beans, but always for kidney- 
beans, and peas : likewife for plsnting 
many forts of bulbous roots, when tu 
be depofned in beds by themfelves. 

The drills for all wliich purpofes 
fliould be drawn with a hoe, two or 
three inches deep ; though for large 
kinds of bulbous roots, iour or five 
inches depth will be requifue, cover- 
ing in the feed? and roots with the 
earth, always the fiepth of the drills. 

7. Beddintr in P/a>:lin^.] Tliis is 

frequently pradlifed for planting the 
choicer kinr's oi flowering t-ulhs, fuch 
as HyacirjJis, Sec. alfo for larger feeds of 
trees, as acorns, large nuts, and other 
larger kinds of fted^, ttones, and ker- 
nels, and IS performed by drawin-^ the 
ea:th frcm off the top* of the beds f<-me 
inches depth, then planting the feeds or 
roots, and covering them over with 
the eanh, drawn off for that purpofej 
alter the following method : 

Tha 



P L A 



P L A 



The tjrounH nuit be previoudy dig- 
ged (II irtnciitd, idktd, and formed in- 
to beds three or four feet w id:-, with 
alic, •) between bed and bed ; then with 
a rake or fpade trim the c.ir:h i.ven!y 
^rom off the top oi the bed into ihc 
ailc-s, rroin ihrtc to four or five inches 
ileej> lor L'uibous roots, and for feels, 
one or two, according to what they are, 
and tiieir (Ize ; tht-n, if foi bulbous 
roots, draw lines .lionp; the fun^tce of 
the lud, nine Indies diftar.ce, place the 
foots bottom downward, along the 
lines, (ix or eif;ht inches apart, but, 
if feeds, they may be fcatttred pro- 
mifciioufly ; and liaving tlius planted 
one bed, then with the fpadc, let the 
eart!i that was drawn off into the alley, 
•be fpread evenly upon the bed again 
over tlie roots or feed, &c. being care- 
ful to cover all equally the above 
deptli, and to rakt thcfurface fmooth. 

This method is much in pradlice 
among florifts for the choicer forts of 
bulbous flowers. 

The nuifeiymen alfo przQ'ife this 
method in planting many cf their larger 
feeds, nuts, Sec. 

S. Furn-w Pl.:r.:lng.1 This is by 

drawing furrows with a plough, and 
»iepoftting fets or plants in the furrow, 
covering them in alto with t!ic plough, 
and is fometimes praflifed for planting 
potatoe-fct:; in field;, and iias been 
pracftifed in planting young trees for 
large trads of forelt-tree plantations, 
where the cheapeft and rnoft expedi- 
tious method is required ; but this 
method can he pra(flifcd only in light 
pliable ground, and is performed thus : 
A furrow being drawn, one or two per- 
sons are employed in placing the fets or 
plants in the furrow, whiHt the plough 
following immediately with another 
furrow, turns the earth tliereof in upon 
the roots of the plants. 

9. DiLbU Pliinring.] This is the 

moft commodious method for planting 
moft forts of fibrous-rooted feedling 
plants, particularly ail the herbaceous 
tribe; alfo for planting flips, off fets, 
and cuttings, both of herbaceous and 
Ihruhhy kinds ; likewife for fome kinds 
Ol feeds and roots, fuch as broad- bears, 
poratoe-fefs, Jerufalem artichokes, and 
hoi fe-radi(h fets, with numerous fets 
of bulbous rots, Sec, and is expedi- 
tioufly performed with a dibble or 
f<tting-f\iek, therewith making a nar- 



row liole In tfie earth for each planf, 
iiiieitiiij^ tiicm in each hole, alway» as 
you go on j obfeiving iho tollowirg 
him*- : 

Having a dibble, or fetting-fiick, it 
is ufcd by ihi ultin/ it into the ca-ii in 
a perpendicular dcfccnt, in de|)th a* 
the particular plants. &c. mayrequ re; 
diredlly inferting the plant, feed, or 
fct, according as cadi hole is made, 
doling the hole immediately by a firoke 
of the dibble. So proceed dibbling the 
holes, and planting as you go on, at 
particular diftanccs and depths, ac- 
cording to the natu'-e of the plants, &c. 
obferving, in felling any kind of plants, 
flips, cuttings, and the like, having long 
fhjnks or ftcnu. it is proper to make 
holes a proper depth, to admit them 
fome Cf^nfideiahk way in the ground ; 
for exaiTiple, cabbage-plants, favoys, 
Sec. fliould be planted down to their 
leaves ; flips and cuttings Hiould be 
inferted two parts of three, at leafl, in 
the ground ; being particular ly careful, 
in dibblirg-rn all fortb of plants, to 
ck fe the holes well in everj' part about 
tho loots, t.y ftriking the dibble flant- 
ways into the ground, fo as to (trike 
the mould firit firmly up to the root 
and fibres, at the fame time bringing 
it clofe to the i\cm ; for in dibble plant- 
ing, many only flrike the earth about 
the neck of the plant, and the lower 
part of the hole is often left hollow 
about the roots ; but by llriking the 
dibble firlt at the root part, you fix 
tie plant cffe<flualiy, then a flrokeof 
the dibble at the top of the ground 
finiflies, by clofing up everv part of 
the aperVure. In this mannCT continue 
planting and finiihing each hole as you 
go on, perfciflly clofe, that neither the 
fun, air, nor penetrating winds, can 
enter, tiiis being of much importance, 
but often difregardcd, as we may often 
fee the hoi ay h .It are neceffarily made 
in fixing the^lants left open, though 
each hole at the irfertion of its plant, 
at one firoke of the dibble, may be 
clcl'ed with the utmoft facility. 

10. Plur.tir.g v>uli Ball's cf Earth about 

the Roets.l This is the removing a 

plant with a large ball of earth abouC 
its roots, fo as tlie plant by having its 
roots firmly attached to the furround- 
ingljall-of eaitir, it flill, during the 
operation, continues its growing flate , 
wichcut receiving any or but very little 
chect 



L A 



P L A 



o(ieck from its removal ; and is often 
praflifed more particularly to tlie more 
delicate and choicer kinds of exotics, 
both trees, Oirubs, and herbaceous 
plants: likewife when intended to re- 
viovc any fort of tree or plant out of 
the proper planting feafon,' as very late 
in the fpring, or in funimcr, it is eli- 
gible to tranfplant it witli a good ball 
of earth, to prcferve it more certainly 
in a (tate of growth. Obferving, fome 
trees and Ihrubs are moie difiicult to 
remove with a ball than moft kinds of 
herbaceous fibrous-rooted plants, tho' 
many of the tree and fhrub kinds, hav- 
ing very fibrey roots, they will alfo 
readily rife with good balls. 

But vi'hen trees or fhrubs, with balls 
to their roots, are intended to be f;nt 
to any confiderable diftance, tliey 
fliould be placed in ofier baikets, in 
order to preferve the cohefion of the 
ball, having a bafket for e.ich tree. — 
In planting them, if they cannot be 
readily moved out of the bafkets with- 
out dirturbing the ball of earth, plant 
bafket and all j cut it here and there in 
the fides, and throw fome fine mould 
clofe all round ib as to join with that 
of the ball, ?»iid give a watering to fet- 
tle it more etljclually clofe ; the roots 
and fibres will readily make their way 
through the fides of the baiket; be- 
fides, the bafkets will foon rot, without 
proving any obflruflion to the growth 
of the plants. 

The advantage in planting with 
balls, either in the full ground, or in 
pots, is, the root of the plant being en- 
clofed'inthe ball of earth continues all 
the while drawing noufifhiTient, and 
the growth of the plant is not retarded 
in waiting till it has taken frerti root 
in its new place, which may be of ad- 
vantage in many places, particularly 
all tender plants, fome of our choiceft 
ever-greens, and many kinds of herba- 
ceous flower plants. 

But planting with balls is not re- 
commended for general pradlice ; for all 
the hardy tree and fhrub kind, it would 
be needlefs as well as very expenfive 
arid troublefome. 

11. Planting in pott.']— ^Th'ii Is prac- 
tifed to all tender exotics, in order for 
moving them to fhelter occafionally, 
fuch as all kinds of green-lioufe and 
bot-houfe plants; and it is likewife 
f>radlifed for nwny farts of hardy flower- 



ing-plants, fortheeonvSnIenccof mov- 
iiig fome curious forts when in fiowef 
lo occafiooal fhelter from tlie fun's 
mys, nnd excclfive rains, in order to 
preferve their beauty, and prolong the 
time of their bloom ; fuch « the fine 
auiiculas, carnations, &c.- 

In planting in pots, it is highly r'e- 
quifitK carefully to adapt the fizes to 
the lize and nature of tlie dilferent 
plants intended to be potted ; iffmall 
plants, begin hrft with fmall jjotsy 
one plant only to each pot, efpecially 
if to remain ; but according 3i the dif- 
ferent plants advance in growth, fhift 
them into pots one or two fizes larger, 
which may be requifue to many forts 
once a year, to others once in two or 
three years, according to the nature and 
increafed growth of the refpeftive 
plants ; though to fome forts of annuals 
it may be neceiTary once or twice in 
the courfe of a feafon ; all of which is 
generally particularized in tlte culture 
of the various forts. And by thus be- 
einning fiilt with fmall pots adapted 
to the fize of the plants, it is not only 
chea])er and more commodious for 
moving and ftowing tliem in different 
parts occaiionally, till they gradually 
advance in growth, but by thus fhift- 
ing them into pots a fize larger, it ad- 
mits of adding frefli earth, which proves 
highly beneficial to their growth. 

Garden pets, for the reception of 
plants, are offeveral regular fizes, from 
two to fixty in a caft, fo are diftin- 
guifhed at the pot-houfes accordingly, 
as twos, fixes, twelves, fifteens, twen- 
ty-fours, thirty-twos, forty-eighfi, fix- 
ties, or fixty-fours, &c. in each calt j 
each pot having one or more ai>erture5 
at bottom fo riifcha^rf^e thefiiperfiuous 
moifture. They are fold by the potter? 
at fo much per calf, large and fmai.*, 
all of a price; tliofe of only two in a 
cart the fame as tliofe of f;xiy; ani 
from two (hillinrsto half a crown per 
caft is the general price. 

But, with refpe<ft to the particulaf 
method of planting in pots in general^ 
the following particulars are iieceffary 
to be obferved. 

Having tire pots and mould ready for 
the reception of the intended plants, 
obferve, previous to planting them, to 
plncefome pieces of til--, p&trtie'-ds, cr 
oy fier-Ihell over each hole at the bottorr* 
of the pct^, bvih to prevent fhe holes 
C 6 fceinj; 



P L A 



P L A 



being ciogeed and Hopped with the 
earth, and ihc earth from being wa(hed 
out with occafioral watering ; alfo to 
pievtnt the roots of the plants getting 
out ; then having fecu:cd tlie holes, 
put Tome earth in the bottom of each 
pot, from two or three to five or fix 
inclies or more in depth, according 
to the fize of the pot, and that 
of tlje roots of tiie plant j this done, 
inlcit the plant in tUe middle of the 
pot upon the earth, in an upright po- 
iition. making its roots, if without a 
ball ofeaith, fpread equally cveiy way, 
dire^ly adding a quantity of fine mould 
about all the roots and fibres, Ihaking 
the pot to caufe the earth to fettle clofe 
thertto ; at the fame time, if the root 
ftand too low, fhake it gently up as 
you fliall fee occalion ; and, having 
filled the pot with earth, prefs it gently 
ail round with the hand, to fettle it 
moderately fiim in every part, and to 
I'teady the upright porture of the plant, 
raifingthe earth however within about 
half an inch, or lefs, of the top of the 
pot, it will fettle lower ; for fome void 
I'pace at top is neceffary to receive wa- 
terings occafionally : as foon as the 
plant is thus potted, give dircflly a 
moderate watering, to fettle the earth 
more efYedlually clofe about all the 
roots, and promote their rooting more 
expeditioudy in the new earth ; re- 
peating the waterings both before and 
after they have taken root, as cccafion 

requires. Ma we. 

Ohftrvations or. planting frets in general. 

The firft thing in the planting of 
trees is to prepare the ground (accord- 
ing to the different forts of trees you 
intend to plant) before the trees are 
taken out of the earth ; for you fhould 
fufFer them to remain as little time out 
the ground as pofTible. 

In taking up the trees, you fhould 
carefully dig away the earth round 
their roots, fo as to come at their feve- 
rai parts to cut them ofFj for if they 
are torn out of the ground without 
care, the roots will be broken and 
bruifed very much, to the great injury 
of the trees. When you have taken 
them up, the next thing Is to prepare 
them for planting j in doing of which, 
there are two things to be principally 
regarded ; the one is to prepare the 
roots, and the other to prune their 
heads in fuch a maaaer, a« may be 



mo(\ ferviceable in promoting the fu- 

ture growth of the trees. 

And firrt, as to the roots ; all tl»e 
fm^ill fibie» are to be cut off as near to 
the place from whence they are produ- 
ced as may be (excepting ever-greens, 
and fuch iikts as are to be replanted 
immediately afttr they are taken up ;) 
otherwife the air will turn all thefmall 
roots and fibres black, which, if per- 
mitted to remain on when the tree is 
planted, will grow mouldy and decay, 
and thereby greatly injure the new 
fibres which are produced, fo that 
many times the trees mifcarry for wane 
of duly obferving this. After the fibres 
are cut off, you fhould prune off all the 
bruifed or brol:en roots fmooth, other- 
wife they arc apt to rot, ana dilUmper 
the trees ; you fhould alfo cut out all 
irregular roots which crofs each other, 
and all downri",lit roots (efpecially in 
fruit-trees) muit be cut off; fo that 
when the roots are regularly pruned, 
they may in fome meafure refemble the 
fingers of a hand when fpread open ; 
then you (hould (horten the larger roots 
in proportion to the age and flrength 
of the tree, and alfo the particular forts 
of trees are to be confidered ; for the 
walnut, mulberry, and fome other ten- 
der-rooted kinds, (hould not be pruned 
fo clofe, as the more hardy forts of 
fruit or forefl-trees, which in young 
fruit-trees, fuch as pears, apples, 
plumbs, peaches, !cc, that are one 
year old fiom budding or grafting, may 
be left about eight or nine inches long, 
but in older trees they muft be left of 
a much greater length ; but this is to 
be undeirtood of the larger roots only, 
for the fmall ones mult be cut quite 
out, or pruned very fhort. Their ex- 
treme parts, which are generally very 
weak, commonly decay after moving, 
fo that it is the better way entirely to 
difplace them. 

The next thing is the pruning of their 
heads, which muft be differently per- 
formed in different trees, and the de- 
fign of the trees muft alfo be confider- 
ed ; for if they are fruit-trees, and in- 
tended for walls or efpaliers, it is the 
better way to plant them with the 
greateft part of their heads, which 
fhould remain on until the fpring, jud 
before the trees begin to fhoot ; when 
they mult be cut down to five or fix 
eyes, beins vei^ cartful, in doing of 
this. 



P L A 



TLA 



tills not to diAurb the new roots. But 
i( the trees are defigned for Hand^trds, 
you Should prune ctf all the fmall 
branches clofc to the places wliere they 
are produced, as alfo irregular branches 
which crofs each other ; and by their 
motion, when agitated by the wind, 
rubandbruife their bark, lb as to oc- 
cafion many times great wounds in 
thofe places j betides, it makes a dif- 
agreeable appearance to the li^ht, and 
adds to the clofenefs of its head, which 
ihould be always avoided in fruit-trees, 
whofe branches ftjould be prefervtd as 
far dillant from each other, as they are 
ufujUy produced when in a regular way 
of growth (which is in all forts of trees 
proportionable to the fizeof their leaves 
and magnitude of their fruit.) But 
to return : After having difpiaced thefe 
branches, you Hiculd alfo cut off all 
f'jch parts of branches as have by any 
accident been broken or wounded ; for 
thofe will remain a difagreeable fight, 
and often occafion a difeafe in the tree. 
But you fhould by no means cut off the 
main leading fhoots, as is by too many 
pra^ifed, for thofe are neceffnry toat- 
tratl the fap from the root, and there- 
by promote the growth of the tree. 

Having thus prepared the trees for 
planting, wemuft now proceed to the 
placing them into the ground ; but be- 
fore this, we would advife. If the trees 
have been long out of the ground, 
fo that the roots are dried, to place 
them in water eight or ten hours before 
they are planted, obferving to put them 
In fuch manner, as that their heads 
may remain ereft, and their roots only 
imiT.erfed therein, which will fwell the 
dried vefTels of the roots, and prepare 
them to imbibe nouriftiment from the 
earth. In fixing of them, great regard 
fhould be had to the nature of the foil, 
which, if cold and rr.oifl, the trees 
fhould be planted very (hallow ; as alfo, 
if it be a hard rock or gravel, it will be 
much the better way to raife a bill of 
earth where each tree is to be planted, 
than to dig into the rock or gravel, and 
All it up with earth (as is too often 
praftifed,) whereby the trees are plant- 
ed as it were in a tub, there being but 
little room for their roots to extend ; 
fo that after two or three years growth, 
when their ropts have extended to the 
fides of the hole, they are flopped by 
the rock or gravel, fo can get no far- 
ther, and the trees will decline, and 



in a few years die. But when they are 
ralfed above the furface of the ground, 
their roots will extend, and lind nou- 
rifliment, though the earth upon the 
rock or gravel be not three inches thick, 
as may be frequently obferved, where 
trees are growing upon fucli foils. 

Having thus planted the trees, you 
fhould provide a parcel of rtakes, which 
Ihould be driven down by the fides of 
the trees, and f^ftened thereto to fup- 
port them from being blown down, or 
difpiaced by the wind, and then lay 
fome mulch upon the furface of the 
ground about their roots, to prevent the 
earth from drying. 

This is to be underftood of ftandard 
trees, which caft their leaves ; for fuch 
as are pUnted ajainlt walls, fliould 
have their branches fallened to the 
Will to prevent the trees from being 
difpiaced by the wind, and place their 
roots about five inches from the wall, 
inclining their heads thereto ; and the 
fpring following, juft before they /hooc, 
their heads fhould be cut down to five 
or fix buds. 

As to the watering of all new-plant- 
ed trees, we (hoiMd advife it to be done 
with great moderation, nothing being 
more injurious to them than over-wa- 
tering. Examples enough of tliis kind 
may have been feen in many parts of 
England; and by an experiment made 
by the late Rev. Dr. Hales, in placing 
the roots of a dwarf Pear-tree in svater, 
the quantity of moiflure imbibed de- 
creafed very much daily, becaufe the 
fap-vefTels of the roots, like thofe of 
the cut-off boughs in the fame experi- 
ment, were fo faturated and clogged 
with moifture, by flanding in water, 
that more of it could not be drawn up. 
And this experiment was tried upon a 
tree, which was full of leaves, and 
thereby more capable to difcharge a 
large quantity of moifture than fuch 
trees as are entirely deftitute of leaves j 
fo that it is impoflTible fuch trees can 
thrive, where the moifture is too great 
about their roots. 

The diflance which trees fhould he 
planted at, muft be proportioned to 
their feveral kinds, and the feveralpur- 
pofes for which they are intended ; but 
fruit-trees, planted either againfl walls, 
or forefpaliers, fhould be allowed the 
following diftances : for mofl forts of 
vigorous-fhooting pear-trees, thirty- 
Cc z fix 



P I. A 



P L A 



/ix or forty feet ; for apricots, flxteen 
or eighteen feet ; apples, twenty-five 
or thirty feet; peaches and nedVarines, 
jwelve feet ; cherries and |jlumbs, 
twenty-five feet, according to the good- 
nefs ot the foil, or the Jieight of the 
wall. 

It is common to hear perfons re- 
marking, that from tlie prefent fpi- 
rit of planting, great advantages 
will accrue to tiie public by the in- 
creife of timber j but whoever is the 
lealt ikilled in the growth cf timber, 
muft know, that little is to be e^cpeft- 
cd from moft of the plantations which 
have lately been made ; for theie are 
few perfons who have had this in their 
view when they commenced planters, 
and of thofe few fcarce any of them 
have fct cut right ; for there never was 
any valuable timber produced from 
trees which were tranfplanted of any 
confiderable fize, nor is any of the 
timber of the trees which are tranf- 
planted young, equal in goodnefs to 
that which has grown from tiie feeds 
uniemoved. Befide, if we confider the 
forts of trees which are ufually planted, 
it will be found, that they are not de- 
figned for timber ; fo that upon the 
whole, it is much to be doubted, whe- 
ther the late method of planting has 
not rather been prejudicial to the 
growth and increafe of timber than 
otherwife. 

Moft people are fo much in a hurry 
about planting, as not to take time to 
prepare their ground for the reception 
of trees, but frequently make holes 
and rtick in the trees, amongft allibrts 
of rubbidi which is growing upon the 
land : nor has any care been afterward 
taken to dig the ground, or root out 
the noxious plants ; but tlie trees have 
been left to ftruggle with thefe bad 
neighbours, which have had long pof- 
feffion of the ground, and have eltab- 
lifhed themfclves fo ilrongly, as not to 
be eafily overcome ; therefore what can 
be txpefted from fuch plantations ? — 
This is to be underftood of deciduous 
trees ; for the pines and firs, if once 
well rooted in the ground, will foon 
get the better of the plants and deftroy 
them. 

Every perfon who propofes to plant, 
fhould prepare the ground well before- 
hand, by trenching or deep ploughing 
jt, and clearing it from the roots of all 



had weeds, for by fo doing there will 
be a foundation laid for the future fuc- 
cefs of the plantation. Alfo we advife 
no perfort'to undertake more of this 
vvoik than he can afterward keep clean, 
for all plantations of deciduous trees 
will require this care, at leaft for feven 
years after they are made, if they hope 
to fee the trees thiive well. Therefore 
all fmall plantations (hould have the 
ground annually dug between the trees, 
and as to thofe which are large, it 
fhould be ploughed between them. 
This will encourage the roots of the 
trees to extend themfelves, whereby 
they will find a much greater fhare of 
nourishment, and by loofening of the 
ground, the moilture and air will more 
eafily penetrate to the roots, to the no 
fmall advantage of the trees. But bc- 
fides this operation, it will be abfolute- 
ly necefTary to hoe the ground three or 
four times in fummer, either by hand 
or the hoe-plough. This will be ob- 
jected to by many, on account of the 
expence; but ifthefirfl hoeing is per- 
formed early in the fpring, before the 
weeds have gotten ftrength, a great 
quantity of ground may be gone over 
in a fhort time ; and if the feafon is 
dry when it is performed, the weeds 
will prefcntly die after they are cut j 
and if this is repeated before the weeds 
come up again to any fize, it will be 
found the cheapeft and very beft huf- 
bandry; for if the weeds are fuffered 
to grow till they are large, it will be a 
much greater expence to root them out 
and make the ground clean ; befide, 
the weeds will rob the trees of great 
part of their nourifhment. We have 
fometimes been told, that it is necelTa- 
ry to let the weeds grow among trees 
in fummer, in order to fhade their 
roots, and keep tlie ground moift ; but 
this has come from perfons of no iTcill. 
For if weeds are permitted to grow, 
they will draw away all moif^ure from 
the roots of the trees for their own 
nourifliment, fo that the trees will be 
thereby deprived of the kindly dews 
and gentle fhowers of rain, which are 
of great fervice to young plantations ; 
and thefe will be entirely drawn away 
by the weeds, which will prevent their 
penetrating of the ground, fo that it is 
only the great rains which can defcend 
to the roots of the trees. And who- 
ever lias the lead doubt of this matter. 



P L O 



P L O 



M 



^ N. 

. >. 



■a 



If they will but try the experiment, by 
keepingorepart of the plantation clean, 
and fufFcr the weeds to grow on ano- 
ther, they will foon be convinced of 
the truth by the growth ot the trees. 
And though this cleaning ii attended 
with an expence, yet t'lie fuccefs will 
overpay this, belide ttie additional 
pleafure of feeing the ground always 
clean. 
Pliant ME ALL Y Tree. SteV/AV- 
FARiNc Trfi. 

PLOUGHING. Ploughs feem to 
have been invented in the rudert times, 
and, till very lately, to have had little 
improvenfient. What has been done 
on this head, however, by fonie inge- 
nious perfons within thefe few years, 
fhews what is pradicnble ; and we 
hope will lead others to the fame ufeful 
purfuit. 

The firft kind of tillage was proba- 
bly with the fpade, and were that as 
convenient for large quantities of 
ground, as it is ufetul where it can bu 
properly employed, no ir.rtrument in 
the world could be compared to it. — 
But when whole fields came to be 
turned up and tilled, it was natural to 
devife fomemethodof faving the labour 
of men ; and confequently, the plou?,h 
which may be called a kind of fpade 
drawn by horfes, was invented. 

As this was more and more frequent- 
ly ufed, its form became probably a 
little altered, but improvements have 
been in nothing fo flow : and this in- 
llrument, of fuch univerfal ufe, and 
va(l advantage and importance to man- 
kind, is Hill capable of many more j 
and it rtill wants them. 

All tillage, it is evident, has Its ad- 
vantage from dividing and breaking the 
.earth into a great many parts. The 
fpade, as it is vvroui?;ht by the hand of 
the workman, does this moft perfedlly, 
and it is for this reafon that garden^ 
are more fertile than fields ; but it may 
not be impoflible, if proper perfons 
will fet themfelves about it, now that 
they know in what the greatell per- 
fection of tillage confifls, to make the 
plough, by more improvements, equal 
its effeft. 

The advantage of the fpade over the 
plough i-:, that it goes deeper, and 
divides the land into more particles, 
andfmaller: but the plough, when its 
ftrufture (hall be fiil?y ptrfecled, is 



certainly capable of this. The four- 
coulterid plough is an excellent con- 
trivance, and fliews, that there is no- 
thing impradlicable in the thought of 
forming; a plough that fliall go deeper, 
and divide tlie eartli as much or moie 
than he fpade. 

The ancient plough, according to 
the be(\ accounts we h.ive of it, had 
no coulter, nor eartli-board, for the 
fhare, always going obliquely, ferved 
as an earth-board ; and the two ears 
which were the corners of a piece of 
wood lying under the Ihare^ c!i<l the 
office of ground wrerts. 

This fort of plough is ufed in Italy, 
and even in fome parts of France at 
this time. It ferves for the turning up 
of light land, but it wouW do nothing 
with our llifF and tough foil in many 
counties. 

This, fo far as we know, was the 
firrt and original plougli, and it is a 
very plain and fimple contrivance. It 
did the cfFicefor which it wai intended, 
in the place where it was invented'; 
but it was not fit for cl!:er lands, and 
other countries, and tliertiore it wa* 
altered. 

In thofe parts of Italy, where t!ie 
foil is perfeftly foft and nieliow, this 
inflrument does very well to keep it in 
tillage; but even in thefe fjvourablc 
lands it is very unfit for the bringing 
them into thi< condition ; for when 
they have lain in grafs, and have any 
turf upon them, it is very difficult to 
manags them with it. They are obli- 
ged to go two or three times over the 
land before the turf is all broken. 

Thefe ploughs, for want of a coul- 
ter to cut the tuif, tear it to pieces 
with great awkwardnefs and difficulty, 
but when it is once cut thiough, the 
foil being foft and tender, they eafily 
get deeper. 

As cur foil is very different from that 
of thofe countries, our ploughs are n;- 
cefTarily made different, for otherwife 
they could not cut it. The necelfity 
of a coulter to ours is very plain, be- 
caufe of the thicknefs to be cut, and 
th-'-t necefllty was doubtlefs the mother 
of the invention. Our ploughs, when 
well made, cut ofl' the fijrrow at the 
bottom fiatwife, and therefore it it 
as thick on the land fide as on the fur- 
row fide '. but the plough cannot break 
it off from t!.e whole land at fuch a 
thicknefs. 



P L O 

thicknefj, fo that there muft he a coul- 
ter to cut it off. By this means the 
furrow is turned perfeflly whole, and 
no part of thetuifof it is broken. — 
Mcnceifit lie long without new turn- 
- ir>r.> 'lie grafs from the edges will 
fprcjd, and form a new turf or fwaid 
on tlie other fide, which was the bot- 
tom of the furrow before turning, but 
is now become the furface of the 
c;<rth. 

If the land he left thus, it will foon 
be greener with grafs than it was be- 
iore ploughine:, and the grafs, fprcad- 
ing its roots, will bind it firmly and 
tcughly together; fo that there will 
require a great deal of time and labour 
to bring it into a condition for the fer- 
vice it is intended to anfvver. 

This has /hewn the infufficlency of 
the common plough, and from a fenfe 
cf this, has arifen ttie invention of the 
four-coultered kind, to be deftribed 
hereafter. Several others have been 
dcvifed to anfwer the fame purpofe, 
but none fucceed fo well. 
0/ tktfevtralkirds cf Ploughs in CDmmon 
ufe in England, 
The common plough differs \ery 
much in fhape and form in various 
places 5 partly according to the fancy 
of the people, and partly to the nature 
cf the ground. Some have longer and 
feme fhoiter beams; and there are 
great varieties in the length and form 
of the fhire, the coulter, and the 
bandies. 

In general, without regarding the 
curtoms of particular pincts, there is 
great reafon to have refped to the na- 
ture of the foil on which it is to be 
tjfcd. Thus, in general, the plough 
that is for itiff clay fliould be long, 
large, and broad, with a deep head, 
and fquare earth-board, fo that it may 
turn up a large furrow. The coulter 
fliould be long, and very little bend- 
ing, with a very large wing ; and the 
foot long and broad, fo as to make a 
rfeep furrow. The plough for mode- 
rate foils fhould be fomewhat fmaller 
than the fotroer, but broad at the 
breech ; the coulter fliould he long 
and more bending, and the /hare nar- 
row, with a wing coming up to arm 
and defend the eaith-board from wear- 
ing. The plough for light foils, fuch 
as fandy and the like, /hould be lighter 
and froalkr than any of thefe. The 



P L O 

coulter /hould be more circular an4 
thinner, and the wing not fo large. 

This Is a direflion contained in a 
fmall compafs, yet it will give the 
farmer the general rule for his conduft 
in this refpeft ; let him confidcr his 
foils under thefe three heads of heavy, 
•moderate, and light, and in this ge- 
neral manner fuit the bulk and fabric 
of his plough to them, and he will 
never make any gicat errors. 

Ploughs are fometimes m.ide with a" / 
wheels, and fometimes without, but •^^'^ 
in general the wheels are a very great^/* '-'■ 
advantage; there are circumftances in 
which ifiey are troublefome, and there- 
fore it it fit they fhould be in fome 
ploughs omitted. 

The plough, which, from its great 
advantage above the others, might be 
elteemed the fir/t great improvement 
in England, is tlie wheel-plough; that 
from the place where it was tirft 
ufed has been long called the Hertford- 
fhire plough. This confifts of abeam 
and handle, a neck, an earth-board, a 
fheath, a /hare, a coulter, a pin, pil- 
low, and wheels, 

Thif Hertford/hire plough, or com- 
mon wheel-plough, as it is ufually 
made, is very /trong, and is ferviceable 
for moft ufcs : it is very eafily mana- 
ged, it follows the horfe lightly, and it ^ 
fuitsalmoft every kind of land. The 
greate/t exception to its ufe is in miry 
clay in winter ; becaufe the wheels cut 
Tnto them, and clog and f\ick when 
they are work'd at that time of the 
year. This is fit for that fort of ground 
when fummer fallows are to be plough- 
ed, and when a grafs ground is to be 
turned up for arable, for it turns the 
turf very well, and is very fit for un- 
even ground, and foi the dijelt fummer 
weather. Some make this plough in 
the original manner, with the handle 
/loping of one fide, but this renders it 
troublefome to hold, or to follow ; the 
remedy was very eafy, and people, not 
bigotted to foolifh cu/loms, have im- 
proved it greatly by making it firait. 

This is in a manner the general 
plough ufed at this time, and it is varied 
more or lefs, but never much, accord- 
Jng to the pleafure of the owner, or 
fa/hlon of the place. 

The E/Tex plough, (for the befl way 
todiflingui/h thefe in/lruments is ac- 
ceding to the place* where they are 
ufed) 



P L Q 



P L O 



ufed) his its earth-board, ifthccx- 
prcAon may be allowed, made of iron j 
by chit means tliey make it rounding, 
aod ctiis tias a S^eat adv.tnta^ in tlie 
turning ol the turf; they generally 
make it li;hc and fine, and the >K'hecls 
proportioned. It is in this way very 
At for I'tfht foils, and rids a preac deal 
ei butincfs. \Vc do not mean by csll- 
iog this the ElFcX plough, that thty ufe 
no other in that country ; btic t4)at is 
the place where this kind is mo<t uTed, 
and ficms to have been invented. 

The Lincolnfliire plough owes its in- 
vention and form aUb t-o the general 
rwuic of the foil of th?t county. The 
fen land of that place is light, foft, end 
nitllow, free from rtooes, and natiiraily 
over-grown with weeds and fedge on 
the furface ; for this land they ufe a 
plough with a circular turning coulter, 
and a large fbarp Aiare; this is often a 
foot broad, and quite fharp at the edge. 
This plough has no wheels. There is 
a foot at the fore part of the beam, 
which they fet higher or lower with a 
v/edge, ajtd by that means tliey keep 
the fore part of the plough from going 
deeper than they cliufe. And tlnry 
l;avc aUb wedges for fctiing tl»e hir>der 
part wliere the handle joins the beam. 
1 he coulter ftands in its ufual plac*; 
befbre the fhare, and is a round iron 
wheel, with a liiarp edge, that turns 
upon an axle as the plough mov^s, and 
cuts through the roots of the fcdge and 
erafs as it goes round, while the broad 
ijiare cuts the bottom. This would, 
not do on other latKl, but wl^ei e the foil 
is of this free and fine kind, and is 
tlius covered with a tough and tangled 
matting of roots, it anf\vers ibc pur- 
pofe excellently. 
c2C The dray or drag plough was at one 
^yij^/ time, in a manner, univerfal, and 
». there is no particular place where it 
can be faid to be mcft in ufe at this 
time; (or it is retained in fome, and 
rejecled in others, according to the 
fenfe and fpirit of the farmers in adopt- 
ing improvements. It is a very plain 
and funple kind ; b«t nctwithftanding 
the advantage tiie others have ever it, 
on many occalions, this ftill excels 
them all for wet clays in the winter 
ploughing-,; for having the lead work- 
n)at\fl>ip of any, it is the leaft apt to 
'-log, and having the feweft parts it is 
£cteft for fuch ground, where nothing 



is required but going on, and tuminj 
up. Jt is limitted to this ut'e ; for on 
other foils, and at other feafons, it is 
very much inferior to tlie other kinds. 
This plough has no wheels, and itcon- 
Tifts of a beam, hamile, earth-board, 
and fhare, and is fet hij;lier or lower, as 
they find occafion, by wedges at the 
fl)eath. 

In fame counties tlieyhave a plough 
with one wheel ; it is a very ill-contriv- 
ed, and very inconvcnit.iv inftrument. 
"1 is broad in the breech, and therefore 
it draws very fjcavily. it is a clumfy 
and ill-contrived kinn', that is growing 
out of ufe ; and of all tlie ploughs 
that have been invented, is tlie ieaft 
wort!» introducing any where. 

The largell kind of plough ufed ia 
England, or perliaps in any part of the 
world, is tliiit ^^•l1ich, in fome parti of 
the county of Cambridge, they ufe for 
cutting of drains. Tl.is is of the Ihapc 
of the common {Hough, and has no 
wheels ; it is very bulky in all its paits, 
and has two coulters ; oivs of thcfe is 
fixed in the beam as ufuaJ, and the 
other in a piece of wood, fattened to 
the beam for that purpofe ; tliefe both 
turn inwards, and cut ea'.h fide of the 
trench. The fhare is veiy broad and 
tlat, and cuts the botton of the trench. 
The earth-board is three times as long 
as in other ploughs, and cafls the 
earth a great \\?.y off the trench. This 
inflriimtnt cuts a trench a foot and a 
lialf wide at the top, a foot at tlis bot- 
tom, and a foot deep. It ii exceUers 
for this purpofe on wet hnds, favinsj a 
gfeat deal of the exper.ce of vvoik la 
the common way of digging trenches 
by hand, but it requires a gteat num- 
ber of hotTes to draw ir. There is 
fomething in the contrivance of tliit 
plough, that may be ufefui farther th.ao 
in tl»e making of trenches, and it is 
for that reafon propofed here to the 
farmer's confideraticn. 
Of the u fa of th: cstr.tnon Plcjgf:, and tk fir 
prcpsr p-ck:. 

Where theie is a hard and f.Tn foil j 
or where the land is fell of fiints, Iharp 
floncs, and gravel, no plough whatfo- 
ever does fo well as tl.e f.vo-wl;eel1d 
kind, which may be fuitcd to the oc- 
cafion according to th? directions ai- 
r53dy 't'iven, with refpeO to f^rength : 
and where ffrong clays are to be 
wroBght in fummer lallows, ro other 
plough 



P L O 

pleup.h is equal to it. The point of 
the common plovii^h will fly oot every 
ftep on tlicTc occafiurs, but this will 
anfwer very well when the earth is fo 
balccj Mid hatdened by the Tun, that 
no other will penttrato. The wheels 
of tliis plou£;h IhoulJ be about twenty 
inches in diameitr, and it will always 
run bt'ft if tlie fuiiow wheel be made 
a littk larc;ei titan the other. 

A great .idvantage of this plougli alfo 
1$, that it Vvill work upon uneven 
ground without levelling, fo that none 
is equal to it for :he ploughing up of 
paflurts, where there arc mole-hills, 
and other irregularities. Thefe difturb 
the other plough extremely, even the 
leaft of them, but this goes through 
all. 

Although tlie finele wheel plough be 
fo clunify and ill-contiived an imple- 
nie>n, there is no reafon wliy the ufe 
of a plough with one wheel Ihould be 
rejefled. A very light and flender- 
made plough may be furr.ifhed with 
one wheel inflead of two, and it will 
anfwer excellently on light fandy foils. 
It will not be fit for harder work, but, 
running eafily, it will ferve this pur- 
pofe better than any other. 

The common two-v/heeld plough is 
to be drawn witli horfes or oxen, two 
a-breaft. The heavy plough whliput 
wheels, which is ufeful for wet clays, 
arid other very heavy and difagreeable 
work, is to be drawn by three, four, or 
five horfes in length. The great ufe 
of this is where the ground lies level, 
and where there are no obflrudtions of 
roots, or the like, for thefe greatly 
difturb its operation. The two-wheel 
plough is preferable in fuch cafes, not- 
^withItanding all its inconveniences. 

Whichever of thefe ploughs the huf- 
bandman chufes. let him take care, in 
the make of it, that it be fuited to the 
foil upon wiiich he is to ufe it. Let 
him fee that it be made larger if it be 
for deep or Arong foils, and lighter 
and fmaller if for the light and fliallow 
ones. When the land is l\iff and deep, 
kl tlie coulter be long and ftrong 5 in 
the deepelt foils the coulter muft go 
the deepeft, becaufe the weeds root 
deepeft there. 

Of whatever form, or whatever de- 
gree of ftrength, let him fee that the 
iron work be rr.ade true as well as 
found i for on the exatlnefs of this 



P L O 

part of the inltrumcnt, depends the 
going of it true to the pitch at which 
it is fet, and its keeping to the line 
wherein it is placed, without running 
out on one fide or the other. 

As fo much depends npton the iron 
work, it is a very prudent method to 
li;lve that made hi it, and wrought to 
a perfeft truth, and then to have the 
wood work made to it: for in the 
common way of making the iron to 
the wood work, the Smith is often 
forced to work wrong in order to fuit 
it : in this cafe no art will make the 
plough go v.cil. Let him take care that 
the iron woik is wrought fmooth, and 
lightly tempered ; and that it be kept 
bright and clean in the ufing. 

The fhorter and lefs the plough, the 
eafier it is worked ; but though thi» 
be a recommenddtion in light foils, 
there is no ufing of fuch as have not a 
due weight and Arength in tough and 
heavy work. 

Of the impro'vementi of the cotr.mon Ploughs 
The regard that has been Ihewn to 
hulbandry of late years has occjfioned 
feveral improvements of the plough, 
for particular and alfo for general pur- 
pofes, and feveral new forms and kinds 
have been invented, fome rather fan- 
ciful than advantageous, but others 
extremely ufeful. There is no part of 
hufbandry in which more improvement 
may be made, nor !n any in which it 
will be fo immediately or certainly ufe- 
ful. 

A double plough has been invented 
fome years ago, and is at this time in 
ufe in fome places, by which a double 
quantity of land is ploughed at a time, 
one furrow by the fide of another.— 
As this requires twice the number of 
horfes, the expence is nearly equal to 
the advantage : but this is a hint ca- 
pable of improvement, for although in 
tough and deep' foils it lofes its benefit, 
from the necelfity of a double expence, 
yet certainly in fome of thofe light and 
/hallow lands we have in Buckingham- 
fhire, and other places, a double plough 
might be fo contrived, as to be drawn 
by two horfes, and managed by one 
man ; and then certainly the advantage 
would be double, and the expence the 
fame. <^ 

There has alfo been a contrivance of *■ *y 
a plough that turned up two furrows- /^^ 
at once one under aftother. But it W 

(9 



P L O 



P L O 



io unwieldy, and difficult of draught, 
that in its preicnt form it will never 
get into reputation, nor doc-^ it dcferve 
it ; but v.<: have fccn already , what 
would be the advjnta^e u( ploughing 
deeper liunordin.'try. and that ii enough 
to fpirit up fome who undcrl'iand a 
Jittic more of the mechanic arts to con- 
trive one upon tlie fame plan with more 
judgment. Douhtlcfs it is poiFible to 
obtain this advantage of deep plough- 
ing with much lefs trouble tiian attends 
it in the plough that has hitherto been 
contrived for th.it ufe. 

We liave obfcivud, that tlic digging 
wit.'i the fpade i.> a much finer and 
more excellent tiii.ise than,that with the 
plough; and that the reafon why our 
gardens are more fertile than tields of 
the fame foil and with the fame ma- 
nure is, that the fpade digs deeper, and 
breaks the particles of earth finer.— 
Now a plough conllrudted upon this 
plan, with better judgment in the fa- 
brick of it, would h.ive both thofe ad- 
vantages : it would dig full as deep as 
the fpade, and might be made totjreak 
tlie earth as much. It is fureiy %vorth 
ilis while of t!'.ofe who have a know- 
ledge in the proper arts, to devote fome 
of their lludies to this improvement of 
the plough, which is doubtkfs the mo/t 
ufeful engine in the world j and at pre- 
fent very def:cient, even in irs molt 
impioved ftate. The adding breadth 
to the fin of the dray or toot plough, 
will at all times make it more and moie 
ferviceable in damp and liifF clayey 
lands ; and in ploughing thefe, the 
liorfes (hould always go at length, that 
they may tread kfs of the ground : on 
the other hand, in light foils, the cat- 
tle, whether horfes or oxen, (liouid al- 
ways go a-brcafi, for the double treading 
is ferviceable to fuch land, in the fame 
manner with the treading of fheep 
when they are folded upon it. In (iony 
ground that hasgrafs of fome flanding 
upon it, the plough fhould have a round 
pointed fhare, with a fin to cut ilio 
roots of the grafs, for the broad rin is 
apt to jump out of the graiind. , 

In ground that has been wood and 
has roots remaining ; or in otlierplacts 
where there are a great many laige 
roots in the way, it is a very good me- 
thod they ufe in forne parts of Staf}brd- 
fhire, of having an initrument of iion, 
with afliarpedge, fet through the beam 

Vol. ir. 



of the plough, behind the coilter, and 
through the plough- head. This, at 
the fjme time that it arm< the plough 
for cutting iliefc roots afurder, if right- 
ly fixtd, lirengthens the whole frame 
of it, and inakes it able to brar the 
rough v.'orkt here oU-n is in thefe places, 
and which clfc would tear it lo pieces : 
in other places rheieabcut, they ule a 
couple of fharp u-ingj of iron niadtfail 
to the plough-ihare, which anfvvtrs the 
fame purpofe, but docs not fo llrtngih- 
en the plough. 

But thefe are all of them improve- 
ments, which rather Jliew vi'liat may be 
done, than execute it well in them- 
felves; they may beconfidered as hints 
to whit is proper, rather than as com- 
ple.-jt things : there reni.dns one to be 
fpoken of in whicli th.e improvtment 
is vtry great, and is carried to a due 
dc;.;ree of perfcfticn J fj that the far- 
mer has no more lo do ihan to order it 
to be made accoiding*o the defciiption.. 

This is tiiC four-couhered plough, 
fo highly and fo jultly excelled hy the 
author of the Horfehoeing Hufoan- 
dry. 

Of tr.t JVhfd Phugh. 

The foundation of tliis inllrumcnt is 
the common two-whcel'd plough, in 
its molt improved condition, from 
V. liicli it difL-rs in the having thiee ad- 
ditional coulteis; A; t'lat infteadof one 
there are four. We iliall here confider 
tills wheel plough in il•^nlo(t improved 
ftate ; and hereafter defci ibe the four, 
coultercd plough form'd upon it. 

This plough conliifs ot two parts, 
diftinicuirt'ied by the names ot the 
ploui'ji-hcad, and plough-tail. The 
l^ead das two vvbcels of about eighteen 
inches diameter, the fpindle or axis of 
thefe is of iion, and p:iin.s tiirough a 
box which ftandi crcfswieoi the beam. 
This fpindli turns round both in the 
box and in the wheels. Frchithis box 
rife two perpendicular (iaves, calltd 
crow Aavco ; thefe are faftened into 
the box, and have e;ich fvvo rows of 
holes, hy means of which ttie beam of 
the plough i^ raifedor funk at pieafure, 
in order to increafe or diminii;'' jhe 
de|)tli cf the furio\\. This is fione hy 
pinning higlier or lower a crofs ( iec.-, 
which is calh.d the pillow, beczuid the 
plough beam relts upon it. At the 
topof tiielwo crow (laves is another 
crofs piece, called the gallows. The 

D d cu.v.- 



P L O 



P L O 



crow naves pafs through tliis by mor- 
lifcs, and are pinned into it. From 
the box ot the ()loii<h within the (taves, 
then; is earned a Cni.di iramt compoftd 
ot two legs, and a ciofs lop, to which 
the links of iron aio fixed, by which 
tlic plough is drawn j this Jramc is 
califd tlie wilds of the plough. In the 
middle of tiie box there alfo is a hole 
into wliich is let one end of 'an iron 
chain, the other tmi w hcieof is laften'd 
to the middle o) thebejfn, thia is called 
the tow chain, and laMcns the head 
and tail ot tiie plough together : at tiie 
end where it reaches the beam, this 
lias a collar that goes round it, and is 
fattened by a (lake within fide the box. 
Tlii^ Hake is held up to the left crow- 
itaff by a wyth, which paiics round it 
above, and under the end of the gal- 
lows below : a piece of cord is fome- 
times ofcd inl^ead of a wyth; any 
thing that may be tied v-iU do. From 
the top of this lake goes an iron chain, 
called the bridle chain ; tliis is fadenM 
at one end to the top of the ftake, and 
at the other to the middle of the beam 
of the plough, by a pin in the fame place 
place where the collar of the tow chain 
partes round it. 

This is the ftruftute of the head 
of the plough, and thefe are its feverai 
parts: 

The tail confillsof the beam, which 
is a (tout and long pole, through which, 
a little below the pin that holds the 
bridle chain, and the collar of the tow 
chain, there pafies the coulter, a long 
and flsnder iron inltrument, whicii 
running downward and a little for- 
ward, ends near the point of the ihare. 
This coulter is fixed in its hole of the 
beam by a wedge, fo that it can be 
raifed or funk at pleafiire; behind are 
two handles, the one longer and the 
other fhorter; the (hotter of which 
meets theiiead of the tore (heat, where 
it enters the beam, and is fixed by a 
pin, and faflened to the top of the 
hinder fheat by another pin. Thefe 
Hieats are two bo4rds, the hinder one 
near the extremity of the beam ; the 
other forwarder and more rtantini;, and 
ate both fattened to the (hare, which 
runs flat below. On ihe other fide of 
the plough tail defcends another flat 
board, called the drock ; to this the 
ground-wrilt is fadened, which is a 
board running nearly parallel with a 



(hare. The longer of the two handles 
is alfo (aliened to the drock, and the 
earth-board rifes at its hottom. The 
(ore-fhcat is fupported by a d6uble 
retch, which pafTcs through the beam, 
and isfalicned by fcrews nnd nuts. 

This is tlic four-wheel pl-jugh as 
ufed at prcfent in the places where 
agriculture is mof^ underl\ood, and 
bed pradtifed ; we fee it contifts of 
more part> than the two wheeled plough 
of HertforcUhire, accorf'ing to the ftrd 
invention, but there is not one of thefe 
added partsbut is an advantage in either 
llrength or convemen. t. 

Of the four-coullereci Plough, 

The beam ot the common two-wheel 
plough, is ufually eight foot long ; the 
pioper length of the beam of the four- 
coulter'd plough, is ten feet four inches. 
The beam of the common kind is (tiait 
all the way, but that of the four-coul- 
teied plough lifts with a bend when it 
comes toward the wheels, to where it 
relts upon the pillow. The beam, 
fuppofing the plough to Aand upon a 
level furface, would be at the end of 
the plough-tail only eleven inches and 
a half from the ground : at the place 
where the bend begins, whicii isa litttle 
before the firlt coulter, it will be one 
foot eight inches and a half ; and where 
the beam bears upon the pillow, two 
feet ten inches. This is the proper 
make of the beam of the foui>-coulter'd 
plough. 

The four coulters are thus difpofed, 
meafuring from the tail or extream 
end of the beam behind. From this 
extremity to the back of the firft coul- 
ter, is three feet two inches ; this coul- 
ter has its point near the (hare : from 
the back of the firft, to the back of the 
next coulter, is thirteen inches ; from 
thence to the third thirteen inches, and 
from thence to the fourth the fame. 
So that trom the end of the beam be- 
hind, to the place where it begins to 
bend upwards, which is a liitle before 
the fourth coulter, counting from the 
tail, is ("even feet. The length of the 
additional coulters, particularly of the 
fourth, cr that next the head of the 
plough, would be a great inconvenience 
in this machine, but that is prevented 
by the bending of the beam toward the 
head. If the beam were (\raight as in 
other ploughs, thefe coulters muft be 
very long to reach the ground, and they 
would 



P L O 



P L O 



would require to be very rtror.g, not 
to hend, aid this would make them ex- 
penfive and cinnhcrfome; and at the 
fame time their length, ;1" ever lo well 
formed, would make them apt to loofen 
the wedges wherewith they are fixed in 
the holes. Thi^ would make tl'e coul- 
ter rife up out ot its work, but by this 
contiivnnce of a ciookeH beam, a mo- 
«ierate length in the coulters ferve ; 
they do not require any great thicknefs 
or quantity ol iion, and they always 
work with regularity. 

As to the materials, the beam may 
be made of afh or oak, according to 
t!ie nature of the ground whereon it is 
ro be employed ; lor alh has the advan- 
tage of being light, but the oak is 
valtly Wronger ; lo that when the work 
will be very hard, the oak, in fpite of 
its weight, is preferable. As to its 
brcj.nh and thicknefs, they may alfo 
vary according to the foil that is to be 
tilled; but for moderate ground, the 
beam at the firft coulter liole fhould be 
five inclies deep and four broad. 

Giving this as a middling proportion, 
thefizeofthe other parts may be as 
follows. The fore Ihear, commonly 
called fimply thefheat, fliouldbe fcven 
inches broad J the retch upon it muft 
be of iron, and its left leg muft ftand 
foremoft, that the edge of its forepart, 
vvhich is fiat, may fit ciofe to tlie wood 
of the fheat. The ufe of this retch is 
to hold the fheat up to the beam, 
which it does by means of nuts and 
fcre»vs. Through the top part of the 
fheat there is al'o to be a hole, which 
is to be a fmallpart within the beam, 
fo that a pin being driven into the hole, 
draws up the Iheat very clofe to the 
beam. The elevation of this fhest is 
a very great article in the management 
of every wheel plough. If this make 
an angle of more than five and forty 
degrees with the plain furface whereon 
the plough flands, that inftrument will 
never go well. In the four-coulter 
plough it ought to make an angle of 
forty-two or forty-three degrees only. 

This fort of exprefCon will be very 
well underftood by ihofe who are ufed 
to mechanics; but for the fake of the 
common farmer, we fhall fay all that 
is meant by it is, that the fheat is to 
be R little lefs raifed in this than it is 
in a well-going common wheel plough. 

TJ)e length of the (hare from the 



point to the tail, fhould he three feet 
nine inches. The fin ot the (hare 
rifing n.%ntini^ from the point upwards. 
The point of the fharc fhould be three 
inches and a half long, fiat underneath, 
and round at the top, and this fhould 
be of hard f^eel uinicineath. The 
edges of the fin alfo fhould be well 
fteeled, and its kngth proportioned to 
the nature of the ground. 

Behind the fin i-. placed the focket, 
into which the bottom of the flieat, he- 
fore dtfcrihed, enters; and irom the 
tail of the fhare is to life a fmali plate 
of iron, this is to he well rivetted to 
the (hare : by this the tail ot the (hare 
is fadened to the hint*er (h- at. This 
faOening is done by an iron pin, with 
a fcrew at the end, to wliioli a nut is 
to be fcrewed on the inner fide of the 
flieat. 

The focket is to be amortifeof about 
a foot long, at the upper part two 
inches deep, and the fore end muft not 
be perpendicular, but made flanting, 
conformable to the fore part of the 
f?ieat that enters into it. The upper 
edge of the fore part of the mortifemurt 
bear againlt the (heat ; and if it be not 
quite fo flanting as tiie flieat, a littje 
of the wood ii to be pared oft at the 
edge to make it fit. 

The upper fide of the (hare fhould 
be perfeiftly ftrait, but its neck on the 
under fide fhould ftand a little hollow 
from the ground. This hollownefs 
fhould be about half an inch in a com- 
mon plough, but in the four-coultered 
plough it (hould not be above a quarter 
of an inch. So that the (hare, when 
it is fir(t made (tanding upon its bot- 
tom, bears upon the level furface 
only in three places ; thefe are the 
point, the tail, and the corner of the 
fin. The hollownefs of the fin muft 
be greater in a (tony foil than in others. 

The placingof the (hare rightly upon 
the (heat is the moft important, and 
the moft ditficult part of the Plough- 
right's trade : on this depends the well 
going of the plough, and for this rea- 
fon ; as it is more important in the 
four coultered plough than in any other, 
we advife the farmer when lie hss made 
himfelf a mafler by thefe defcriptions 
of the form and Uruftureof this plough, 
to take care that he employ a (kilful 
and an honelt workman ; and if he do 
not find the plough go well when 

D d 2 made, 



P L O 



PLC 



made, to lock there for the occafion of 
the f^ulc, for in that part is generally 
the feat of it. 

The groundwrift is tobeof iron, its 
length mult be two feet five inches, its 
breadth at llic longtit ti d four inches, 
and is to go fomcvvh;it fmaller all the 
way. lis thickntfb in general is to be 
three-eighths of an inch; but at tiie 
fmailer end it is to l>e mucii thinner, 
that it may be capable of bending fo, 
that it can be brought clofe' to the 
rtiare. 

At the fmaller end of the ground- 
wrift are to be (our holes, through one 
ot which there goes a nail that faftens 
the groundwrift to the fheat. This 
pafTis through a long hole which is 
made in the fide of the focket of the 
fhare. The fpace between the outfide 
of the groundwiill. to the outfide of 
the fha;e, is elever inches and a half, 
and this is the widili of the lovver pait 
oi the plough-tail at the ground : at 
the upper fide of the broad eii.i of the 
ground-wrili there arealfo feveral holes 
by v.hich it is nailct' to the lower part 
of the drock ; tliis is long, narrow, ;ind 
has three holes for the reception of its 
faReniiigi). 

The earth board h.T; 3 rifing near its 
end, which takes !:cl"' of the end of 
the (heat to raften it the more firmly ; 
and near that are two holes by which 
it is fixed to ihe (heat; at the other 
end alfo th^re is a hole, by which it is 
faftened ti. the drock. 

The pin which faltens theearth board 
to the drock, is to be thicker in the 
middle than at the end, an<. this pre- 
vents the earth hoard from coming near 
the drock. By mi:ans of this pin the 
earih board is alfc fet at a greater cr 
fmailer diftance from the drock, as 
there is occaiien fometimes to throw 
oft the furrow farthci from the plough 
than at ethers. It always ftands a 
good deal farther out or. ;he right hand 
than the groundw.'il't, and this is one 
reafon why the drock is made crooked, 
bending outwards in that part. 

The long handle of the plough is to 
be five feet four inches in length, and 
four iaches broad in the widsft part. 
It is to have holes in its lower part for 
jjinning i: to the fheat, and another 
near its upper end, by which it is faf- 
tened to the drock. 

The length of the ihortbandle is three 



feet nine inches, and it is to have two 
holes, both toward its lower end : by 
the upper hole it is pinned to the hin- 
der (heat, and by the lower to the top 
of the foreflieat above the beam of the 
plough. 

We come now to defcribe the placing 
of the four coulters in the beam of this 
plough, contrived for their reception j 
this is the mo(t important article of 
all : and the greateft point to be ob- 
tained is, that the four imaginary 
planes, defcribed by the edges of the 
four coulters, as the plough moves for- 
ward, be all parallel, or nearly fo, for 
if this be not regarded, they will not 
enter the grourid together. 

To make fureof this important point, 
the holes for the coulters muf^ be made 
in the beam of the plough in the fol- 
lowing manner. The firlt coulter it 
to be placed as already direfled, the 
fecond coulter hole is to be made two 
inches and a half more on the right 
hand than the firlt: the third two 
inches and a half more on the right 
hand than the fecond ; and the fourth 
two inches and a half more on the right 
hand than the third. This will place 
the four coulters conformable to the 
four cuts they are to make in a-ten-inch 
furrow. 

Now no beam of a plough is broad 
enough to hold thefe holes in this di- 
rection, and for that reafon a piece of 
wood is added to the beam of the four 
coultered plough to give fpace for it. 
Th.is piece is to be very well faftened 
to the beam, and the fecond hole is 
to be made, as will be feen, according 
to the diftance, partly in the piece, 
and partly in the beam ; and the others 
will be all made entirely in the piece. 
The piece is beftfaltened by three good 
fcrews with their nuts, and its place is 
on the right fide of the beam. The 
diftance of each hole to the right of 
the laft, mult be meafured from the 
middle of one hole to the middle of the 
other. 

The fore part of every holemuft in- 
cline a little to the left, fo that the 
backs of the coulters may not bear 
againlt the left fide of the incifions 
made by the edges. Each hole is to 
be a mortife of an inch and quarter 
wide, with its two oppofite fides pa- 
rallel from top to bottom. The length 
at the top is three inches and a half, 

and 



P L O 



P L O 



and ar the bottom three inches ; and 
the hack ol each is not perpendicular, 
but n.Hntin^, and makes (he coulter 
Itand llantinc;. It i!> fixed in this mor- 
tife by a pole wedge in the lame man- 
ner at tl>e coulter is in other ploughs. 
The coulter is a kind of iron knife, 
confirtinp of two pai is j a handle, and 

blade ; the latter having an edge. 

The length of the coulter is to be two 
feet eight inches, but it will fhorttn in 
wearing ; the blade is tc be fixteen 
inches long, with its edge running ail 
the way along it ; the handle is to he 
ofthefan-e length. Tliii is (c lo ig 
that it will at firit very well ftand up 
above the beam, but it mult be driven 
down lower and lower, as the point 
fhortens by wearing. The handle is 
to bean inch and fcven-eighths broad, 
and feven-eighths of an inch thick 
throughout. 

The firfl coulter in all ploughs fhould 
be fo placed, that its back (hould bear 
againft the back of the hole ; its right 
ftde above to bear againlt the upper 
edge of the hole, and its left fids to 
bear againft the lower edge : and for 
this reafon there always are required at 
Jeaft three wedges to hold a coulter in 
its place. The pole wedge liands be- 
fore it, the other two, one on the left 
fide above, and the other on the ri ht 
fide underneath : and the hole mud be 
fo made, that the coulter ftanding thus 
acrofs it, its point may incline two 
inches and a hall or more toward the 
left than the point of the fhare, if it 
were driven down as lowf as it : but 
it fhould never be fo low in any plough 
\irhatfoever. As to its bearing for- 
waids, the point of the coulter fhould 
never be before the middle of the point 
of the fhare. It muH be fet obliquely 
with refptft to the fhare, and it mull 
never be fet much more flantin^ ; for 
if ii fhould, it would have greater force 
to raife up the pole wedge, and would 
be continually getting loofe. 

In the four coulteied plot:gh, the 
three other coulters are to itand in the 
fame pofture with this in refpciSl of the 
inclination of their points to the left : 
this is a great advantage to them ; for 
by that means when the fin is raifed up 
by turning the handles toward the left, 
their points do not rife cut of the 
ground on the right hand as they other- 
v.'ife would. With refped to tlieir 



pointing forwards, experience fliewi. 
that every one ol the three fhould be 
fet a little more perpendicular than the 
next behind it j fo thr.t the fourth coul- 
ter will ftand nearert to perpendicular 
of any of them. 

None of thefe coulters ought to de- 
fctnci 10 low as the bottom of the fliare, 
unlefs when the ploughing is very fhal- 
low. It is always fufficient that they 
cut through the turf, however deep the 
plough go into the ground. 

When the ploughing is to be very 
fh^Uow, the fin of the fhare (hould he 
broad enough to cut off the fourth 
piece of the furrow. 

1 he nut which fer\'es for faflerirg 
the piece to tlie beam of the plough, 
fliould have two oppofiteccrntrs turn'd 
tip, by which it may be driven rourd 
with a hammer. This has fo great a 
force, that three of thtfe will holri the 
beam and the piece ss firmly together, 
as if they were one bit ol wood. In 
dry weather the v\i'Ood will fhirink, and 
then the nuts are to be driven farther 
on. The fame caution niuft be ob- 
ferved in other pans of the ploug'>. — 
Detween the nut r^nd the wood ther« 
fhould be a thin piece of iron by way 
of bolfter : this prevents the nut frcin 
wealing into the wood; it mull be 
fomething larger than the nut, and of 
the thicknefs of a fhilling. Some ufe 
a piece of leather, hut when the nut is 
to be often fcrewed, iron is much bet- 
ter. 

There mufl alfo be iron plates upon 
all the coulter holes, both above and 
below. Thefe muft be nailed on with 
nails made for that purpcfe. 

Inltead cf a collar movirg round the 
beam, 'tis much better to i-.avc a fquare 
one with an open end, which fhall 
fallen to it by a couple of crooks.— 
Thefe mufl turn upwards, that they 
may net lay hold of any thing that fhall 
be turned up nnder the plough : the 
front or clofe-end cf this collar is to 
be a fttongiron bar, wiiii fcveral notch- 
es. Two pins are to be driven into 
tlie beam of the plough, jufl behind 
the fecond coulter hole, one en each 
fide ; and there is to be another crook, 
called a (C) from its fliape, which is 
to go over the ckfs end ot the collar. 
Each end of this is a hook, and one 
of thele lays hold of the crofs bar of the 
cclbir, poing into one of its notches ; 

and 



PLC 



P L O 



aitd fojlie oijier is fixed a link, wldch 
bold-) tht jtiiw chain to tiie lo'.Iv . 

1 b.c ufe oi tliefb nocclics, an.l this 
£x'd pofiticn of the collar is tlii& ; 
that r.'. ihc Jharc vveais at the point, it 
aTw.iys ircl ntb a liitle to jht right ; 
and tliii iii remedied by removing the 
cioiik into another notch of the crofs 
^a: 01 the collar, fo ihat the point of 
thv fhare is iluis alwoyb kepi in a pro- 
f«r fii! ft "■ n The It-rr.tii of tacli iide 
I ;r oi I he CO Ir.i (ho-. Jd be a toot. 

W- iiav fiicwn that the tow chatn 
• ; liie ploi:2h '\i fddencd wiihin the 
box by a ftafF p..fr.d ih'ouglj its fiifl 
Irk, as the hock oi theco'lir holds lis 
lifl. T'.is lt;ike i$ commfnly nailed, 
ro prevent irs t'.ying oi:t ot its place. 
And wiicn the plough is to be drawn 
» littt'.' nearej the crow (tave«, the me- 
\t.( d is to take in another link of this 
chain, p^fTing through the Hake, and 
iarteninc it as before : or it may he 
«!onc better by taking hold of the crock 
cf the collar, tvith a fecond or third 
lifik of tl e chain. 'I'his (horrening 
*f the chain always draws the j^ointof 
the (hare a ii;t!e to the left. 

For drawiog of the ptoogh there is 
fs-Ucned to the hex an iron machine, 
called the wilds J this is very like the 
fquare collar, only its legs are longer. 
The crofs bar at the top is notched as 
that of the fquare collar, but only one 
leg of the wilds is fixed to this fquare 
bar in the making; the other ley; is 
loofe, and has a loop tin ouch which 
the other tnd of the crofs bar is put, 
io that it is fixed on at pkafure. Boih 
ihefe legs of the wilds pafs tiiiough the 
box of the plough, and are fafJened in 
behind it by a coupie of hooked pins 
N made for that purpofe. The holes cut 
rbrough the box for letting thefe legs 
pafs, are to be made flanting upwards, 
ib that the fere part of the wilds may 
be higher than the hinder; otherwife 
the upper end of the ciow (laves will 
lean quite back when the plough is 
drawn, The ufe of the notches in the 
bar of the wilds, is to give the ploucli 
. a brc nder or a narrower furrow, A 
double crock witli a lii.k is fixed to 
this bar, and by this the hoifes draw. 
If the cattle are tall, the traces mull 
he long, elfe they will be apt to laife 
the vvheels otT the ground, and over- 
Torn the plough. 

The hgs ot the wilds ihould be eight 



inches and a lia'f afunder, and their 
leiigi'i n.i'cieen inches : the links are 
to t:c ()X ii ches and a half lonjr. They 
arc to be put into two notches dilianc 
from «)ne anofher, or cilc one wiieel 
of the jl-ughwill ad vanes befc'r-r ths 
other. When they a.c moved to the 
noichcj en the ri<ht hjnd, it biings 
the e« heels toward the left hand, which 
ctvcb ti.e greater lurrow ; and, on the 
contrary, when they are m ved ontlie 
n' tchcs on the kit h.and, it gives the 
plough a lefsli/rrow, by bringing the 
vvhtel:. towards the right. 

The height cf the wheelt we have 
meniiincd already, as ahb the proper 
method of making one of them higher - 
than the other : their diitance (hould 
be two feet five inches and a hah, as 
fet from one another on th.e ground. — 
The crow Aaves fhouid be one foot 
eleven inches high from the box of the 
plough to the gallows that goes acrofs 
them; thefe are to fland upright up- 
on the box, and they fliculd be ten 
inches and a half afonder. 

The pillow which crolFcs the flav«s 
below the galli ws, is to be pinnt-d up 
at its end by two fmall iron pins, and 
it is convenient to keep thtfe chained 
to it, that if they chance to drop, they 
t:"i2y not be loft. 

The lieight from tlic ground to the 
liole in the box where the tow chain 
pafTes through, is to be thirteen inches. 
This brings it to two inches below the 
holes of the wilds, on the hinder fide 
of the box. 

The height of the plough at the plate 
where the other end oi the tow chain is 
fallened to the beam, fhould be twenty 
inches from the level ground ; and 
about the middleof the tow chain there 
(hould be a fwivel, that one end of the 
chain may turn without the other. 

This is the conftrudtion of the four 
coultered plough ; and as it is founded 
upon the two wheeled plough improv- 
ed to the greateft perfedtion, the parts 
of that plough can never be fo well 
underftood as in the defcription here 
given for their perfeft and exaQ con- 
(!ru£iion. It is very necefTary that he 
who would undertake to make, or to 
give orders for the making of 3 four 
coulteied plough, (houldfirlt thorough- 
ly underffand the conftruftion, parts, 
and compofition of a perfeft one with 
a fingle coulter ; and wc have by this 
means 



P t o 

mntii avoicied the rcptti non of a long 
and dry ilti.,il of rlie parts. 

We have before fndwn what was the 
flrrt conlliuilton of the whed plough, 
\<hJcti was a vaft imprcvenient upuil 
the inrtrumcnts in iiiMbandry of that 
time J and wc have Iiere explained' its 
fart her advanccstoward that ptrlcition, 
which it may be jultly faid to have il- 
tained in the four coultercd kind. 

When the four coultered is made, 
let it be tried with the fingle coulter 
before the others are put on. Tliere 
may be a fault in the- work t'lat cannot 
\yt difcovered, even by a judicious eye, 
till ii is tried ; and this may pisvcn't its 
going as it ought. That plough wliich 
wjll not go wtll with one coulter, cer- 
tainly would not with four; but it 
would be very unjuil to chart'e upon 
the nudibe:' of the coulters, wliat is 
really the fault of fcms part of the 
rtrudlure of ttfe infii-ument itftlf^ in- 
dependent of that addition. 

If the plough goei well with one 
coulter, then put in the other three; 
there is not much fear hut it wiil alfo 
go '.veil with them. If it do not, then 
Jet the pcfuion of the tlires additional 
coulters be examined ; and let it he 
ften in what that differs from the rule, 
laid down here for tliat purpofe. That 
it differs in fo.mething need not be 
doubted ; for of a certainty, if they be 
rightly difpofed according to thefe di- 
reftions, the plough v/i!l go well. 

To know whether a plough goes 
well, examine tlie furrow : it' thit be 
cf an equil depth on the right hand and 
on the left ; and if tlic plough turr»s ic 
cfF fairly, it is right. If in the going 
cf the plough, the tail of tlie lii.-.re, 
and ttie bottomof the drock bear ag.iinlt 
the bottom of the furrow ; and if it 
goes eafy in the hand of the holder, 
without prefTing one arm more than 
the other, the farmer may be alTurcd 
it is a good one. Such a plough will 
go with four coulters as well as one. 
Oj' the managerr.cnt cf a Plough h: 'working. 

When the farmer has gut Ws plough 
well made, let him fee that he keep it 
in order ; and th.it he employ a man 
in the working, wlio is able to manage 
it as he ougti*, and who has honeMy 
tnoiigli to taksi the neceffary care and 
pains. The farmer depends more upon 
'I'w ijitegiiry rffid kno.vicdec cf his 



P L O 

plour-Jimail, tl-.an on tiic qualjijcs c£ 
any other fcrA'ant wha'foever. 

The handles of the j^lougli btjjig 
made of that length we have ordeitd, 
are vtrj ufclul for the jiroper guiding 
of that inftrumeht ; but often iJiC 
plout:1;i-n3n will cut them (horter ta 
favour his idlcntfa. When they are 
fhortentd, he can bear his whole weigbt 
\ipon theiTi, and in a manner ride in- 
llead of walking'. If he fnould plajf 
this idle trick with long lundies, his 
weight would tilt up the fore end oif 
the beam, ind raifc the fhare out of 
the ground. Tiie keeping the arms 
long therefore p'rcver.ti ti/is ncgligeuc 
trick, and at the fame time gives bins 
an opportunity of managing the pl6uga 
to the greateft advantage. 

An awkward ploughmari will Ise 
continually overfcttingche two whed'J 
piongli ; but a careful perfon, who i* 
ufed to the management of it, iiardly 
e^'er n:tets with fucli an accident,— 
The great danger of over-turning ii, 
at the going out.at the land's end, from 
one fiirrow to anotlier. But the fkrJ- 
ful ploughman lifts liis piough a littic 
round, and then h:ilds up the crovv- 
llaves with the end of the beam, bf 
pretfin.: his hacd hard acjiittft the han- 
c'lq, while the piough lies c,"own oj» 
one fide, till tliehoi-feii, tlie wheels, ani 
tli£ body of the plough cor.ie nearly t» 
a line in tht; beginning 6f tlie furroiv; 
and then he liiis up the plougla aaiS 
goes on. 

Thefe Htt'e cc-ntrivai'.ces are exc^:!*- 
ingly ufcful. Theyare moreeafily fcea 
in tl)s pradlicc, thir. taught by word*^ 
but w!iat is lieie faid may ferve to iex 
th? far.mer know when his plo'j£;hm£rc 
manages his bufinefs rigiit^ and wfccjfc 
he does not ; ani .T.ay aiTifl him In the 
giving one that is willing dire.f.jons. 

In the four ccuhcrcd plough there '■5 
another inconvenience very likely t* 
Iiappen, but very eaTiJy rc'niedied : t!.i» 
is, tiiat fometiiTits the firit or left {»>- 
row is apt io> coin.' through, bttwiitt ih^ 
firl\ couittr and the (hear, M-\n in thit 
cafe it f.jlls upon ihe^leK hind iid^ 0/ 
the plough. 

This, though riot of tl.ij confequcricic 
c{ irany other faults, yet it is v/ortj* 
preventing, and the more as tberi;m&- 
tiy is eafy. To tliis purpofe let tlitrfe- 
c^nd ccL-i:er ilzr.-i^ a little Sigher ilii*» 
■ • ' ■ • ' - ■ ,1.^ 



P L O 



PLC 



ihetMrd; anlthen the feccnd furrow 
Itolding the firft j'. its bottom, will 
carry it over togeiher vi iih itftif, and 
throw it on the ri^ht iide of the eariii- 
board. 

Let us give the farmer one caution 
farther in this matter; which is, that 
in this placing the coulter, he never 
fets it fo liij^h that it does not cut ihe 
furf through. As to tlie firli coulter, 
ihougli it fliould cut but AH inch or 
two witliin the ground, the fhaie will 
break off the firft fuirow in raifing 
it up. 

If in the ploughing wltli this four 
couitered kind, the coulterb become 
clogged and loaded with pieces of tlie 
turf, a boy fhould go by th^ fide with 
a forked flick to clean theii. off from 
time to time, which is done very ea- 

niy, 

The coulters heing difpofed exactly 
as we have defcribed, will have more 
fpace between them above than bt 'ow, 
fo that this clogging will not happen 
often, and when it does, the eleanfing 
is eafily performed. The farmer r.isy 
always know when he fhall h.^ve cc- 
cafion for a bey to folU>vv for '.his pur- 
pofe, becaufe it rifes not from the fault 
of the plough, but the nature of tl.e 
ground. Thi- plough in clear ground 
goes as fiee and clean as any ; but 
when there is a great quantity of couch 
grafs on the land, its roots hold the 
turf together in fuch a manner, that 
it rifes in pieces, and hangs between. 
This is the only occafion on which 
there is a need of fuch afTiflance; Li;t 
if it be not taken care of, the load oj 
clogging matter will fill thefpaces be- 
tween the coulters, and raife up the 
plough cut of its work. 

In the common two wheel plough 
there is a very great inconvenience too 
frequent, and of very bad confequence, 
this is, the leaving a great part of the 
land unturned from the fliare's point 
going too much to the left. The con- 
fequence of this is, that the work is 
done iriegularly, and often a great part 
of the ground which is covered by tl;e 
broken earth, is whole and untouclitd, 
and the weeds are found afterward* 
growing upon it. This is a great 
fault : it defrauds the farmer of fo 
much of the bufinefs he engaged fhould 
be done ; and there is nothing he ought 
to look into fo carefully. 



Sometimes he will And St happec 
fr m the imperfeftion of the plough 
itlelf, and then he is to apply to the 
rr.aker. Tfu* well going of a plough 
principally depends in the placing of 
the fhare rightly upon the flieat i and 
in t!)is cafe the remedy mult be hyan 
amendment in that article. This is 
the v.iccltard moft difficult part of the 
plou^iiriKlii ■ bufintfs,and is what the 
farrrnT is ;r:. ft concerned of all other 
to fee (I. i: well : it matters not that 
the maker can tell him, or fhew him 
it h right as it flands upon the ground, 
let him try it in feme work, and never 
be fatisfied with it till it anfwers his 
expe-lation. 

This fault lafl named, though it 
fometime": be owing to the make of the 
plough, yet may alfo arife only trom 
(he folly of the ploughman's fetting it 
wrong : tiierefore this fliould be tried 
firft. His fault is the fettmg it fo that 
the point of the fliare turns too much 
to the left : in this cafe it will always 
cut crofly, and leave a part of the 
ground untouclied, though covered by 
that which has been cut, and Is thrown 
over it, 

Theie is no part of his bufinefs 
which the farmer is more under a ne- 
cefTity of following with his own eye 
than this. His intereft is engaged in 
the well executing of it, though the 
fervants' are not. It is eafy to plough 
too fhallow, or toodeep. Where there 
is a full foil, the deeper the plough 
cuts the better J but where the foil is 
fiiallow, and the bottom bad, let there 
be great care taken that the clay, oi 
whatever other bad matter it may be, 
(hall not be turned up with the foil. 
He fliould himfelf overfee this that his 
ploughing may give him all the advan- 
tage, and avoid all the difadvantage 
there is in the condition and nature of 
the ground. 

Some choice is to be made in regard 
to the fituation, in the manner, and 
courfe of the work. When a land lies 
upon the defcent of a hill, let it never ^-;^ / 
be ploughed f^rait up and down, bufj^ls *^ 
crofswife. This has a double advan-V^^^^^ 
tage : for the horfes are not tired, as 
they would be with going ftrait up and 
down, and the land alfo will fare a great 
deal the better. ^, ■> '/ 

Of laying Land ■ . ridges. ' £s-i^i ^^^ ■ 

A great article in the rendering of 
land 



P L O 



P L O 



fertile, IS the breaking; and diviHin«: it 
into fmall particles, whether this be 
done mechanically by the ploue;h, or 
by fermentaticngiven toit by manures; 
that this breaking of the foil into fmall 
particles is efTential to the free growth 
of plants is very plain, becaufe it is 
from the fmajielt particles of this mat- 
ter that they are nourifhed, and the 
br^fking of the land in this manner is 
the only method of giving tiie roots a 
free pailage between them, in their 
fearch ol this nouriftiment. 

On this depends the famous fyflem 
of Horfe-hoeing Husbandry. But be- 
tide thefe two articles, of liberty of 
Spreading the roots, and a proper quan- 
tity of nourirtiment, there are two 
other, without which plants cannot 
thrive, thefe are, a due degree of heat 
and moiflure. 

Corn, and the other common pro- 
duce of our ploughed land, demand a 
moderate degree of each of thefe, and 
the farmer is to guide his pra£iice 
througlici : in fuch manner, ss to give 
them a Tupply without giving tliem 
abundance. It will be a(ked, can the 
farmer ca'jfe funfliine, or can he call 
down rain ? Neither : nor do we ex- 
peft impcffibilities of him ; nothing is 
more eafy than what we require him 
to do, and the effcdt fhews that it will 
fucceed. 

But as he is to communicate to his 
crop all good, fo far as he is able, fo 
he is to defend it from all ill: and as 
we have (hewn how he may give the 
advantage, it remain; that we fhew 
how he may prevent the hurt. 

Now one of the greatelt misfortunes 
!hat can attend a crop is too much 
wet. This fometimes happens from 
the particularity of a feafon ; butoftner 
from the nature of the land. When 
the firfl is the cafe, the farmer's care 
muft be to find methods of carrying the 
v/et off; when the latter, he mud em- 
ploy ail his care to provide againft it. 
Land that is too wet will never pro- 
duce corn well, and to prevent themif- 
chief attendinjj this condition of the 
ground, has been invented thepradice 
of which we now treat, the laying land 
iu ridges. 

Thi» is a partisahr fort of tillage, 
and its effeft is greater than thofe feem 
to underftand who employ it. They 
ufe it only to keep thei: lands from 

Vot.II. 



being too wet, but it has an effeft in 
regaid to the degree of heat, rot Itfs 
than wit.'i refpcfl to that of moifture. 

We fhail fee, upon examining this ' 
pra(flice and iti eflftfls, how well na- 
ture has taught peojjie to ufe it. We 
fee them in the moderate foils that are 
frequent in Buckinghimfiiire, and elfe- "^ 
where, frequently lay four ridges to- «. ' ^ 
gether : in Kent they oTten lay fix, and 
the lower parts of Elux eight, and in 
Huntingdonlhire, upon their wet and 
flifF clays, they fow ail upon broad 
lands, railing the middle of the lidges 
in fome places two foot and a half 
higher than the fide furrows. This ac 
once expofes thofe tough and clammy 
foils to the fen better than any other 
method, and drains them of the abun- 
dant wet. 

The chief defign of laying land In 
ridges is draining of it, and making 
the corn grow properly dry : but we 
fee that by a proper management it 
may be made to extend its benefits far- 
ther. In this cafe, of a clayey foil laid 

in ridges open to the eall and weft, 

where the fituation is fuch as to allow 
it without other damage, the fun ails 
in a double way upon the foil, not only 
giving it -.varmth, when the al-'undant 
cold moilture is taken away, but by a 
gentle calcination of ti'-.e furface, it re- 
duces that fupcrfiCial part to a ftate of 
greater perfeffion, and to a kind of 
manure for the rell. 

The natural defects cf many lands, 
other-.vife ufeful and good, are a too 
great degree of moii'iue. anci a defeat 
of heat. The latter natur liy arifes 
from the foimer; for a quantity cf 
water detained among ciay, or any 
other tough earth, becomes cold, and 
chilis the plants that are /aid upon it. 
Th3 grtat remedy, in this cafe, is the 
laying the land in ridges ; and that '.he 
careful hufbandman may be fure to 
know when tliis is reqi;:red, as '.rell 
as how to do it, we fhail give hirp the 
following hints. 

The t/.'o prir.cips! kinds of land, 
that are liable to becliiiled by wft, are 
thofe on hills, where there is a bed of 
clay under the mould; and thofe in 
level grounds, which confift of a very 
deep and very ftiff foil. 

The occafTon of the mifchief in thefe 
is very obvious, the rains fall upon 
«!iii ground, and, fe?.kir.g through the 

F e moult} 



P L O 



P L O 



(ttoold, ire detained liy the clay. 
'1 l)cy caiHiot enter the clay, and there- 
fore they fprcad tMemfelves among the 
» niould above; and the mould below 
(topping it in its defcent, and moie 
water failing above, the whole ap- 
proaches to the nature of a bog ; the 

— giound being foft, pappy, and raifed 
above the natural level by the water 
fpread among it. 

When this is the cafe in a very great 
degree, no method of plotighing can 
be fufficiently effedual to remedy it. 
In this cafe, trenches mull be cut acrofs 
with a defcent, to carry the vv'ater ofK. 
And they may be filled up with rough 
flones, and covered over with earth 
again, fo that all may be wrought as a 
level furface : Reafon points out this 
remedy, but it is often too expenfive ; 
and fuch lands, when too v/tt and too 
difficult of remedy, are to be negleded ; 
wc therefore have naiDed thefe only to 
fliew, that they are not to be attempted 
by ridging; for nothing difliearter.s a 
hufbandman fo much, as undertaking 
what he afterwards finds cannot be 
done. 

When the wet is in a confiderably 

large degree, it may be difcharged by 

laying the land properly in ridges, tlio' 

not where it is thus very abundant ; 

therefore let the farmer firft examine 

carefully, whether the Hate of the 

ground will or will not admit a cure; 

if he thinks it will, this is the manner 

in which he is tofet about it: 

yr. /? Let him plough the land in ridges, 

^.^^iC- almoft crofs-wife of the hill, but a 

^ little flanting; for if they be perfeftly 

carried acroCs, or quite ftrait down, 

they will neither way do. When they 

are thus carried crofs-wife, but a little 

diagonally, their parting furrows lying 

open, will each ferve as a drain to rhe 
ridge next below it: for when the 
plough has made the bottom of thefe 

nearly horizontal furrows a few inches 

deeper than the furface of the clay, the 
water will naturally and fecurely run 
to their ends, without rifing into the 
mould, provided no part of the furrows 
be lower than their ends. 

Thefe parting furrows and their 
ridges fliould always he made a little 

— obliquely; and this obliquity, orflant- 
jnjj, ftioyld be more or lefs, according 
fo the form and declivity of thehii!. 

—, V/«are to confider thac there are iwo 



wd-ys, in which water tli.it f.tUs upon 
an hill runs off. 1 he one Is on the 
furface, and the other is between the 
mould that makes the foil, and the 

clay that makes the bed under it. 

"lis this fecond courfe, or the running 
of the water upon the bed of clay, and 
under the motild, that we ate to con- 
lider on thefe occafions ; for on that 
depends the damage we propofc to 
rectify. This is the fource of what 
we have directed, as to the difpofition 
of the ridges ; and it will be fou "d, en 
the molt careful examination, that as 
only this method cf ridging could keep 
that |>:irt of the foil dry, fo there is no 
diredtion in which they could run, that 
will fo well fecure the advantage, as 
the carrying them vvith this flant crofs- 
wife of the hill. > '•■ -■■:'. ly '. . -■^ 
In this cafe the confideration of lay- 
ing the ridges eaft and weft, muftgive 
way to this crofs direftion, with refpeft 
to the defcent of the hill. We have 
mentioned, under that head, that there 
were exceptions ; this is the principal ; 
and in this, as in all other cafes, the 
greater convenience is to beconfulted, 
and the leffer is to give place to it. 

1 he farmer who (hall make himfclf 
perfeft mafter of his buhnefs, will of- 
ten find two things would be right, 
both of which together ar&impradti- 
cable : he muft, in this cafe, content 
iiimfelf with taking the bed. 

The way of working on this occafion 
is to plough the ridges in paces, with- 
out throwing any earth into the trench- 
es. In this cafe, the ridges will be 
plain at the top ; and the rain water 
will fpeedily run downward to the 
next trench, and thence to the head 
land, and fo out of the field. 

Thefe are eafy and plain direftions, 
and the fuccefs of them is certain; it 
not only is plain to reafon, but is 
vouched by experience ; and yet a great 
deal of land that might be laved by it, 
ii left to produce little or nothing by 
the common treatment. 

Wet land, that lies level, is the fe- 
cond kind of land that is liable to be 
wet and cold, and that may be greatly 
mended by the tillage in lidges. 
Sometimes there are fprings on the 
hills, that add to th.e quantity of water 
which they have from rains, and this 
makes the cure more difficult : in thefe 
deep, wer, and rtifF foils that lie on a 
level. 



P L O 



r L u 



/!. 



levrl, the caufe is always to be found 
in llie water that falls by rain alone. 
But this will fometinies put the land 
into as bad a condition as if there 
were fpiings in many phces. 

When a deep Oiff foil lies flat, and 
is ploughed fometimes one way, and 
w fometimes another by crofs ploughing, 
it will hold water a long time. By 
tlisrt mibfortune the plough is kept out 
two or three weeks longer than if it 
were in round ridges. Sometimes its 
llatnefs keeps it from drying, till the 
feafon of ploughing and fowing too are 
loO. 

The farmers are backward in plough- 
ing the hilly wet grounds in ridges, and 
more in this. They fay it prevents 
the benefit of crofs ploughing, which 
they count as a great advantage, and 
• ,y. they tliink they lofe a part of their 
*^-/„ ground by the^open furro ws, which 
V* they otherwife ffuup with harrows. 
^Y ^"t thefe are miftakes and prejudices, 
of which it becomes us tofet the prac- 
tical farmer right ; for on fuch noti- 
ons, which he receives upon credit, 
without being at the pains of examin- 
ing whether they be true or falfe, de- 
pend thegreateft part of his difappoint- 
ments and lofles. Crofs ploughing is 
fometimes a hurt as well as a benefit 
to land : this is certain, and any one 
who is accuftomed to farming, and 
will examine what he from time to 
rime fees, inftead of taking all things 
u|x>n truft, will find it fo in experience. 
This, therefore, is an objeftion arifing 
only from prejudice in favour of com- 
mon praftice, and common opinion : 
the other is entirely an error j for, in- 
flead of lofing any ground by ridges, it 
is poflible to gain Come. In the mofl 
fimple and common praflice, none is 
lofl 5 and managing wifely and pro- 
perly, much may be gained. 

Ground is gained for the farmer's 
purpofe, when itsfurface is increafed, 
and is capable of bearing more corn j 
and this is plainly pra£licable in the 
ploughing in ridges. If in this cuftom 
of ploughing, we allow two feet in 
— fixteen for an empty furrow, flill the 
difference of furface between the reft as 
it lay fiat, and as it is ploughed into 
ridges, is much greater in his favour, 
than this proportion is in lofs of quan- 
tity. All the furface thus raifed in 
ridges, is capable of bearing corn, and 



therefore it is fo much ground gained ' ' ;■ ' 
to t!)c hufl>^ndman. ^/YT- 

]t is certain, the furface of a field 
meafures moie in quantity when in 
ridges, than when flat j and it is equal- 
ly certain, that all its fui face, the empty 
furrows excepted, is capable of bearing 
corn. This is a ihort rtate o{ the cafe, i 
Thefe empty furrows have been taken 
into tiie computation, and the diffe- 
rence is in favour of the land in ridges. 
No fophiftry can get the better of fo 
plain a fa(n ; and it is upon this fa^r, 
and the evident advantage that wet 
and cold lands receive from this kind 
of tillage, that we recommend to the 
farmer the tilling his l\iff, cold, moift, 
and flat lands, in this method of plou^h-^ " 
ing in ridges. '7}i*fi ^/t'///'7~ Jca-^/f9f"f 

PLUM-TREE, (Prunus.yihe va- ' ' 
rieties of the fruit are, 

JVbite Primordiarty or Jean UatHe 

Plum. A fmallifti, oblong, yellow 

Plum, with a white bloom; ripe the 
middle or end of July. 

Morocco, or early black Damajk Plum. 
A middle-fized, round, blackifh fruit, 
powdered with blue, is well favoured, 
and difcharges the Itone ; ripe end of 

July. 

Little Damajk Plum.-^A fmall, round, 
black, well-flavoured plum ; ripe be- 
ginning of Auguft. 

Great Damaji Vblet Plum.— A mode- 
rately large, roundifh-oval, dark-blue 
Plum, covered with a violet bloom, is 
of a rich juicy flavour, and quits the 
ftone ; ripe in Auguft. 

Slueen Claudia Plum, fometimes called 
Green-Gage. — A middle-fized, round, 
yellowifh-green Plum, having a firm 
deep-green pulp, of a fine rich flavour, 
and quits the ftone; ripe in September. 

Little Queen Claudia Plum, — A fmall, 
round, whitilh- yellow Plum, powder- 
ed with white, and parts from the 
Itone ; ripe end of Auguft and begin- 
ning of September. 

Greer.'Gage Plum.— A middle-fized, 
roundilh, green Plum, fometimes pur- 
plifh on the funny fide, having a yel- 
lov./ifti-green firm pulp, of a moft de- 
licious rich flavour, but does not dif- 
charge the ftone freely j is one of our 
molt valuable plums, and the tree a 
great bearer ; ripe the end of Auguft 
and beginning of September. 

Varities.'] There are feveral varieties 
of greenifh Plums^ that go by the name 

E e z of 



PI. u 



P L U 



of Green-Cages, th^t are of Inferior 
quality. 

Blue Gage Plum. A middle-fize, 
roundifh. hlutiHi Plum, of a rich fla. 
vour j ripe beginning or middle of 
September. 

Oileani i'/a.-a.— — A middle-fized, 
round, pale-red Plum, often of a vvlii- 
tifh-grecn colour on the fide away from 
the fun ; ib of but a middling flavour, 
and quits the ftone clean. The tree is 
of fpreading growth, a remarkably 
great bearer, and very profitable for 
common ufe, artd for thofc who fup- 
ply the markets; ripe end of Augull 
and beginning of September. 

Drapd'Or, or Cloth of Gold Plum. —A. 
middle-fized, roundilh, bright-yellow 
Plum, fpctted with red, of an excel- 
lent vinous flavour, and adheres to the 
Uone; ripe beginning or middle of 
September. 

Black Perdlgron Plum. ' A middle- 
fized, oval, daik-coloured Plum, pow- 
dered with a viuiet bloom ; is of a fine 
rich flavour 5 lipe middle or end of 
Augufl. 

Elui- Perdigror, Plum, — A large, roun- 
difli, blueifh-coloured Plum, replete 
with a delicious juice ; ripe end of 
Auguft. 

fVhiu Perdlgron Plum.— —A middle- 
fized, oblong, whitifh-yellow fruit, co- 
vered with a white bloom; is firm, 
juicy, rich, and quits the ftone; ripe 
«nd of Augurt and beginning of Sep- 
tember. 

Roche Courhon, or Red Diaper Plum.— 
A middle-fize, round, fine red Plum, 
powdered with a violet bloom, is high 
flavoured, and adheres to the flone ; 
ripe end ot Augult. 

Rid Imperial Plun:. — A large, oblong- 
oval, fla'tifh, pale-red Plum, covered 
with a whitifh bloom ; is of but a mid- 
dling rtlifh, and parts from the ftone; 
ripe middle of September. 

White Bonum Magnum, Mogul or Egg 
Plum, — A remarkably large, oblong, 
egg-fhaped, whitifl\ yellow Plum, 
powdered with a white bloom, having 
a firm pulp that cleaves to the llonc ; 
more efteemed for culinary ufe, than 
eating raw : the tree fhoots ftrong, 
with very large leaves ; is a great bearer, 
and the fruit is the largefl of the plum 
kind ; ripe beginning or middle of 
September. 



Red Btrum Magnum, femetima eaUcd 
the Great Imperial Plum.— A very laige 
oblong, deep-red Plum ; not of a rich 
tiavour, but is excellent for prtferving 
and culinary purpofes ; ripe beginning 
or middle of September. 

h'oihcrtnghamPlum, — A large, oblong, 
fine-red plum, having a fine rcli pulp, 
that quits the ftone ; ripe end of Au- 
guft and beginning of September. 

Brignole Plum. — A iargifh, oval, yel- 
lowirfi plum, tinged with red next the 
fun, having a firm, dry, rich pulp, is 
in much eftimation for fweetmeats ; 
ripe in September. 

Le Royal Plum.^A large, roundifh, 
light-red, finely powdered plum, hav- 
ing a juicy fugary pulp, that cleaves 
to the ftone ; ripe end of Auguft and 
in September. 

Chffton Plum. — A middle-fized, oval, 
blackifh-blue Plum, powdered with a 
violet bloom; ripe towards the middle 
of September. 

Wenfworth Plum. — A large, oval, yeJ- 
lowifh plum, of an acid relifh, and 
feparates from the ftone ; is a good cu- 
linary fruit ; ripe in September. 

Mirabelle Plum. — A fmall, round, 
greenifh-yellow plum, having a rich 
pulp, that difcharges the ftone, and 
the tree a great bearer ; ripe end of 
Auguft. 

Apricot Plum. — A large, round, yel- 
lowiftiplum, having a firm, dry, fweet 
pulp, that feparates from the ftone ; 
ripe beginning or middle of Septem- 
ber. 

St. Catharine Plum. — A large, oblong, 
oval, yeilewilh-amber-eoloured plum, 
powdered with a white bloom, having 
a rich juicy agreeable pulp, adhering 
clofe to the ftone : ripe end of Sep- 
tember. 

Imptratrict Plum. • A middle-fized, 
roundifli, daik-red, finely-powdered 
plum, of an agreeable flavour, the 
pulp adhering to the l\one ; ripe be- 
ginning of Oftober. 

Little Greeni Damafl Plum.— A fnall, 
round, greenifh Plum, powdered wUh 
a whitifh bloom, having a green very 
agreeable pulp, adhering to the ftane ; 
ripe middle or end of September. 

P^ar Plum. — A moderate-fize, oval, 
whiti(h-yellow plum, of an inferior 
fl.avour, efteemed principally for pre- 
ferving ; ripe late in September. 

Mvj^cU 



f>L U 



PX U 



AlufcU Plum-^—A fmalllfh, oblcng, 
flat, dark-red plum, buc of an indif- 
ferent reliOl ; ripe in Stptembcr. 

DamafcefiePlum. — A firuU, loundilh, 
dark-blue plum, of a tolerably agree- 
able acid relilh, both for eating ai^d cu- 
linary purpofes, and the tree a great 
bearer ; ripe in September. 

St. yulian Plum. — A fmall, round, 
dark-violet-coloured fruit, covered 
with a mealy powder, but has little 
relifb ; ripe end of Septemlier. 

Cherry Plum.— A very fmall, round, 
cherry-fhaped red plum, valued chitfly 
as a curiofity ; and the tree is often 
planted among flowering fhrubs, for 
the fakt of its beautiful bloom in fpring, 
and Its cherry-like fruit exhibit a pret- 
ty variety in fummer ; though by its 
flowering very early, the bloom is often 
cut off, and feldom fucceeded by much 
fruit. 

Thus far is principally all the moft 
noted varieties of this iruit cultivated 
in the Englifh gardens, and in the nur- 
feries for fale ; though there are nu- 
merous other varieties, particularly of 
the common fort, growing in the or- 
chards and hedges ot farmer>>, iSc in 
different parts of tlie country j all the 
forts being varieties of one fpecies, firft 
obtained from feed, and the approved 
forts of them have been multiplied and 
continued by budding and grafting. 

But befides ti.e above varieties of the 
fruit, there are alfo the following for 
ornamental plantations, 

Double-blofTom Flum-tree Gold 

ftriped- leaved — Silver-ftriped-leaved— 
and the ilonelefs plum. 

The two following fpecies. Bullace- 
tree and Sloetujh, grow wild in hedges, 
but are fumetimes cultivated both for 
variety and ufe. 

The general propagation of Plum- 
trees is, by grafting and budding, and 
may alfo be increafcd occafionally by 
layers. 

By grafting and budding. — This is 
performec' upon flocks of any forts of 
the plum-kind, raifed from the ftones, 
fowed in autunm in beds ot good earth, 
about two inches deep, and when the 
pi ints are a year old, they being plant- 
e'J out in nurfery rows two feet and a 
half afunder, aad having from one to 
two or three years growth, they will 
be in fit order to graft or bud with 
the defired forts, which is performed in 



the ufual way, either low in the ftock 
for dwarfs, or at ftveral feet height 
lor ftandards. Obfcrving, that when 
the fitii (hocts from the graft or bud 
are one >ear old, thofe of the trees de- 
figned as dwarfs for walls, &.c. fhould 
beheaded down within five or fix inches 
of the bottom, more particulaily of the 
budded trees, in order to force out la- 
terals from the lower eyes, fo as to fur- 
nifh a proper fet of branciics, proceed- 
ing regularly from the bottom of the 
tree, to cover every part of the wall 
and efpalier. But as to flandards, 
their fir(f flioots may either be fuffered 
to run and branch in their own way, 
or headed to a few eyes, if it fhail feem 
necelTary, to force out lower laterals 
to give the head a more regular fpread- 
ing formation ; afterwards, let ihcm 
all take their own growth. 

When the trees thus raifed by graft- 
ing or budding, are from one to two 
or three years old, they are of a proper 
fize for final tranfplanting into the 
garden, &c. though trees ( f fix or 
eight years old may be fafely rranfplanr- 
ed j remarking however, the )Dungtr 
they are planted where they are to le- 
main, the fooner and more firmly tley 
will eflablifti themftlves, andform for 
bearing. 

By layers. • This Is performed en 
the young wood, any time from No- 
vember till March, cliufing the Jart 
fummer's fhoots, and lay them by flit- 
laying ; in one year they will be root- 
ed ; they muft then be feparated, and 
planted in nurfery-rows, and trained 
either for dwarfs or flandards, as may 
be required. 

The double bloffom plum, the two 
ftriped varieties, and ftonelefs kind, are 
all propagated by budding or grafting, 
upon any kinds of plum-rtocks, either 
for dwarfs, or half or full flandards. 

And the bullace-tree and flce-Jju(h 
or black- thorn, are propagated by fow- 
ing the berries or llones an inch deep 
in a bed of common earth in autunm { 
and the floe-tree alfo abundantly by 
fuckers from the root. 

Cocoa P I. u M , or yjmerkan P l V M , 
(Chryfclalatius.) There are two fpecies ; 
I. with oval indented leaves, fiov.ers 
growing in clutters, and a fluubl^y 
ftalk; — 2. with decompounded leaves, 
whofe leaves are oval and entire. 
They are both nativesof the Weft- India 
iflands, 



1' O-I 



POT, 



idsndf, and tlie \v;,rmer parts of Ame- 
fica, and will not thrive in EngUnd, 
»;nlefs preferved in floves. They are 
y;ropagated by feeds, which niuft be 
jirocurtd from their native country, 
and fown in the fpring. 

I>.'niAN D.^teI'i.um. SffDATZ 
Plum-tree. 

POA GRASS.— Merkow grafs or 
that common fpeeies of grafs, which 
principally forms the gieen covering of 
our fields, Arc. 

POCKET, A large fort of bap, in 
■^■hicli wool or hops are packed up, in 
order to be fent from one part of the 
kingdom to the other. 

POCKWOOD. 5.vGuAicuM. 
POD, A term iifed to exprefs a pc- 
ricarpium, confiding of two valves, 
which open from the bafe to die point, 
and are feparated by a membraneous 
partition, from which the feeds hang 
bv a kind of minute ftalk.//^ /^/t*/, 
'poison Tree, (Toxicodendron.) 
There are feversl fpeeies of this plant 
growing in moil psits of North Ame- 
rica. Thcfe plants are preferved by 

the curious in botany, for the fake of 
variety ; but as there is little beauty in 
them, there are not many of the forts 
cultivated in England. The wood of 
ihefe trees, when burnt, emits a nox- 
ious fume, which will futfocate ani- 
mals when they are fliut vp in a room 
where it is burnt ; an inftance of this is 
mentioned in the Philofophlcal Tranf- 
a<nions by Dr. William Sherard, which 
was communicated to him in a letter 
Irom New England, by Mr. Moore, in 
which he mentions fome people wJio 
had cut fome of this wood for fuel, 
which they were burning, and in a 
fliort time they lort the ufe of their 
limbs, and became Aupid ; fo that if 
a neiehbow had not accidentally open- 
ed the door, and feen thtm in that con- 
dition, it is generally believed they 
••.•0'j1:1 foon have periihed. This fhould 
c.iuticn pcopls from making ufe of this 
wood for fuoh purpofe. 

When a perfon is poifoned by hand- 
ling this wood, in a few hours he feels 
ari itching piin, which provokes a 
fcratching, which is followed by an 
ir.fiamination and fwelling. Some- 
times a perfon has had his legs poifon- 
ed, which have run with water. Some 
of the inhabitants of America atrirm, 
they :an d;Uingui>Ti thi"; wood by the 



touch in the daik, from i>s extreme 
coldnef.-, which is like ice j but wliat 
is mentioned of tliis poifonous qualiij 
is moll applicable to a- fore like tl>e 
afl). 

The iuice of the tree is milky, when 
It firft ilfues out of the wounded part ; 
but foon after it is expofed to the air, 
it turns black, and has a very Itrong 
foeid fcent, and is corroding ^ on cut- 
ting orf a fmall branch from one of 
ttiefe (lirubs, the blade of the knife has 
been changed black in a rrnsment's 
time, fo far as the juice had ff>read 
over it, which could not be got off 
without grinding the knife. 

PojsoN Ash, a fpeeies of the poi- 
fon-tree. 

Poison Oak, a fpeeies of the poi- 
fon-tree. 

Poison Bush. SeeSrvncz. 
POKE, afack or bag. 
Hop POLLS, t!ie upright poles, or 
pieces of wood, round which they bind, 
twirt, and fupport themfelves. 

POLL.ARD, a tree that has been fre- 
quently polled ^r lopped, and its top 

taken off. Pollards are inferior to 

coppice trees, in the quantity of wood 
they yield, and in its value; for the 
coppice wood is fit for many purpofes 
that thefhrowdingsof the pollards can 
never anfwer, and therefore brings a 
better price; but on the other hand, 
pollards are maintained at a fmaller 
expence. Indeed it may almol\ be faid 
at none at all; for they require no 
fences ; they take up no quantity of 
ground ; and they are in their fhoots 
above the reach of cattle. 

The moft frequent and mod pro- 
fitable trees for pollards, arc, the wil- 
low for watery places, the a(h for 
hedge rows, and the oak for commons. 
But each of thefe fituatlons will fupport 
feveral others to advantage ; and there 
is fcarce any free that may not be 
brought to a pollard at the owner's 
pleafure. 

In general, the hufbandman (hould 
Ihrowd fuch trees as are not fit for 
timber ; or any from which he defires 
to have a prefcnt advantage, or which 
he intends (hall fupply his family, or 
tiie market, with fuel quickly and rea- 
dily : for tliere is no growth fo fpeedy 
as that of the tree which is fhrowded. 
Trees intended for (hrowding may 
te raifed in many places, where it 
vvoul4 



POL 

vroul.H not be worth while to Iiave 
•thcrs, becaulc of the injury they would 
do the ground : for, as to Ihrowded 
trees, the farmers may have the bene- 
fit of grazing under them, while the 
cops are growinp, fo that little produce 
ot the ptound, where that is of any 
conliderable value, is loit hy their 
jrrowth : and when their heads are fo 
large that they injure the growth of 
the grafj, they make amends another 
way, for they tiien afford Ihtlrcr for 
the cattle, the necelTity of wliich is 
fufiiciently known to every pinzicr. 

FOLE-EVIL, An abfcefs neiir the 
poll of a ho: f-:, formed in t!ie (inuf'ss 
between the noli bone, and tiie upper- 
molt vertebra of the neck'. 

If it proceeds from blows, bruifes, 
or any external violence, at firft bathe 
thtfwellin^ often witii hot vinegar j 
and if the hair be fretted off with an 
oozing through the ikin, make ufe of 
two parts of vinegar, and one of fpirit 
of wine ; but if there be an iicliing 
with heat and inflammation, the I'afelk 
way is to bleed, and apply poultices 
with breav*. milk, and eluer flowers : 
this method, with the alTirtance of 
pliyfic, will frequently difjierfe the 
fwelling, and prevent this evil. 

But when tiie tumour is critical, and 
has all the figns of matter, the beft me- 
thod then is to forward it by applying 
the ripening poultices already taken 
notice of, till it come to maturity, 
and burfl of i»felf ; or if opened with 
a knife, great care fliould be taken to 
avoid the tendinous ligament, that 
rims along the neck undei the mane : 
when matter ison both fides, the open- 
ing mud be made on each fide, and 
the ligament remain undivided. 

Jf the matter flows in great quan- 
tities, refenibles melted I'lue, and is 
of at) oily confiftence, it will require a 
fecond incifion, efpecially if any cavi- 
ties are difcovered by tiie finder or 
probe ; thefe fliould be opened hy the 
knife, theorjoces made depending, and 
the wound (hefTcd with the common 
digeftive of turpentine, honey, and 
tin£iurc of myrrh, and after digeftion 
with the precipitate cintment ; or 
wafh the fore with the following, made 
hot, r.nd fili up the cavity v.'itli tow 
foaktd in it. 

Take vinegar, orfpirii of wine, half 
» pint, white vitiiol diiFoived in 



POL 

fpring water, half an ounce, tiac- 
ture of myrrh, four ounces. 
Tliis may be made fliarjjcrby adding 
more vitriol ; but if the (k(h is veiy 
luxuri.-jr.t, it fliould tirll be pared 
down with a knife beiore the appli- 
cation J with this w.ifh alone, Mr. 
Gibfon has cured thisdiforder without 
any other formality of drefTsng, w.irti- 
jng with it twice a day, and laying 
over the part a quantity of tow foaked 
in vineg.ir, and the white of eggs heat 
together. This lart application will 
fcrve indead of a bandage, as it will 
adiiere clofe to the pole, and come off 
eafy when there is cccalion to drefs, 
.Some walh with the p!iag;srienic wa- 
ter, and then fill up ilie abfcefs with 
1 )ofe dclTils of tow loaked in /Kgyp- 
tiacum and oil of turpentine made hot, 
ana continue this method till the cure 
is efi'eifted. 

But ti.e moft compendious method- 
of cure, is found by obfervation to be 
by fc.dding, as the farricis ttrm it, and 
is thus profecuted when il;e fore is fotil, 
of a baddifpofuicn, and attended with 
a profufion of matter. 

Take corrofive fublimate, verdi- 
greafe in tine powder, and Roman 
viriiol, of each tv/o drams ; green 
copperas half an ounce ; honey or 
/i.gyptiacum two ounces, oil of 
turpentine and .train oil, of each 
eight otinces ; redlified fpirit of 
wine four ounces ; mix together 
in a bottle. 
Some make their fcalding mixture 
milder, ufing red precipitate inftead 
of the fublimate ; and white vitriol 
inftead of blue; the following has 
been fucctf^fllily uftd fcr tiiii pur- 
poie, viz. haU an ounce of veidigreafs, 
half a pint of train oil, four oun(;ts of 
oil of turpentine, and two of oil of vi- 
triol. 

The manner of fcalding is, firft to 
clean il.e abfcefs well with a piece ot 
fpunge Hi;)pecl in vinegar; tlitn put a 
futRcient quantity of the mixture in a 
ladle ^vit!l a fpout, and wlien it is made 
fcslding hot, pour it into tiie abfcefs, 
and clofe the lips togtther with one or 
more llirciios, Ihis is to remain in 
fcveral days, and if good niaitcr ap- 
pears, arid not in an over- great quan- 
tity, it will do well without any other 
rireliing, but bailiir.g v/jth (pirii of 
winej if the matt-i tlows in gjeat 
alurdar.ce 



P O JL 



POL 



abundance, and of a thin ccnfiilencc, 
it niiiit be fcalded a^ain, and repeated 
tiji the matter IciTens and tbickers. 

Thtfc liquid corrofive dre<IJngs agree 
well with Iiorfei, wl.ofc fibres are Itiff 
and rigid, and whcfc juices are oily and 
vifcid ; in this cafe they contra€^ the 
veiitlsof the tendons on the hind part 
\>( the head and upper part of the nec}<, 
which are continually fpewirg out a 
matter or ichor that can hardly be di- 
verted, orthe profufion abated without 
fuch applications as thefe. 

Foley, (Policum.) There are fe- 
veral fpecifs of this plant, natives of 
France, and the warmer parts of Eu- 
rope ; and from thence brought into 
the Englifh gardens, and are propagated 
by fetts, cuttings, or (lips. 

POLYPODY, CPo/)/>oJiam J Poly- 
pody is a capillary plant, growing up- 
on old walls, the trunks of decayed 
trees, Sec. That found tipon the oak 
is generally preferred, though not fen- 
libly different from the others, T'le 
roots are long and flender, of a reddifh 
brown colour on the outfide, greenifh 
within, full of fmall tubercles, which 
are refembled to the feet of an infcfl j 
whence the name of the plant : the 
tafle of thefe roots is fweetilb and nau- 
feous. 

Polypody has been employed in me- 
dicine for many ages ; neverthelefs its 
virtues remain as yet to he determin- 
ed. The ancients held it to he a pow- 
erful purger of melancholic humours ; 
by degrees, it came to be looked upon 
a? an evacuator of all humours in ge- 
neral ; at length, it was luppofed only 
to gently loofen the belly ; and after- 
wards even this quality was denied it : 
fucceeding phyficians declared it to be 
aftringent ; of this number is Boer- 
haave, who efteems it moderately ftyp- 
tic and antifcorbuiic. For our own 
part, we have had no diieft experience 
of it, nor is it employed in pradice ; 
it is probable that (as Junckerfuppo- 
fes) the frefh root may loofen the belly, 
and that it has not tliis effed when 
dry. 

POLYANTHUS, (Pcljar/.ha.) The 
fe\cr3l forts of Polyanthufes are pro- 
duced by fowing of fseds, which fhould 
be faved from fuch riowers as have 
large upright iiems, producing many 
flowers upon a llalk, wiiich are large, 
beautifully flriped,opep, flat, and not 



pin-eyed. From the feeds of fuch 
fiowcrs, there is room to hope for a 
great variety of good forts, but there 
fliould be no ordinary flowtrs Hand 
near them, left by the mixing of their 
farina the feeds fhould be degenerated. 

Thefe feeds (hould be fown in boxes 
tilled with light rich earth in Decem- 
ber, being very careful not to bury the 
feed too deep, for if it be only flightly 
co'-ered with earth, k will be fuflici- 
ent. Thefe boxes fhould be placed 
where they may have the benefit 
of the morning fun until ten of 
the clock, but muft by no means 
be expofed to the heat of the day, ef- 
pecially when the plants begin to ap- 
pear, for at that time one whole day's 
fun will entirely deftroy them. In the 
fpring, if the feafon fhould prove dry, 
you mult often refrelh them with wa- 
ter, and as the heat encreafes, you 
fhould remove the boxes more in the 
fhade, for the heat is very injurious to 
them. 

By the end of May, thefe plants will 
be ftrong enough to plant out, at which 
time you fhould prepare fome fhady 
borders, which fhould be made rich 
with neats dung, upon which you muft 
fet the plants about four Inches afun- 
der every way, obferving to water them 
until they have taken root; after which 
they will require no farther care, but 
to keep them clear from weeds, until 
the latter end of Auguft following, 
when you fhould prepare fome borders, 
which are expofed to the eaft, with 
good light rich earth, into which you 
muft tranfplant your polyanthufes, 
placing them fix inches afunder equally 
in rows, obferving, if the feafon prove 
dry, to water them until they have 
taken root. In thefe borders your 
plants will flower the fucceeding fpring, 
at which time you muft obferve to 
mark fuch of them as are fine to pre- 
ferve, and the reft may be tranfplanted 
into wildernefTes, and other fhady 
places in the garden, where, although 
they are not very valuable flowers, they 
will afford an agreeable variety. 

Thofe which you intend to prefervc 
may be removed foon after they have 
done flowering, (provided you do not 
intend to fave feeds from them) and 
may be then tranfplanted into a frefh 
border of the like rich earth, allowing 
them the fame dlftance as before, ob- 
frrving 



P O M 



POM 



ferving alfo to water them, umil they 
hnvc tak-n root ; after which they will 
require no further cnre, but only to 
keep them clean from weeds, and the 
following fpring they will produce 
Jlronj; fiower>, as their roots will be 
then in full vigour j fo that, if the 
kinds arc good, they will he little in- 
ferior tea (hew of Auriculas. 

1 htfe root-: fhonld be conllantly re- 
moved and parted every year, and th.e 
earth of the border changed, otherwiie 
they will degenerate, and lofe the 
greatefl jjart of their beauty. 

If you intend to {i\e feeds, which 
is the metliod to obtain a great variety, 
you mull mark fuch of liiem, which 
have good properties. Tl.efe fhould 
be, if pofiiLIc, feparated from all or- 
dinary flowers, for if they fland fur- 
rounded with plain-colouied flowers, 
tliey will impregnate each other, where- 
by the feeds of tlie valuable flowers 
will net be near fo good, as if the 
plants had been in a feparate border, 
where no ordinary flowers grew ; there- 
fore the bell way is to take out the 
roots of fuch as you do not efleem, as 
foon as the flowers open, and plant 
them in another place, th.'.t there may 
be none left in tlie border but fuch as 
you would chufe for feeds. 

The flowers of thefe (hculd not he 
gathered, except fuch as are produced 
Jingly upon pedicles, leaving all fuch 
as grow in large bunches j and if the 
feafon fhould prove dry, you muflnow 
and th'^n refrefh them with water, 
which will caufe their feeds to be lar- 
ger, and in greater quantity, than if 
they were entirely negledted. In fune 
the feed will be ripe, which may be 
eafily knov7n by the pods changing 
brown, and opening ; fo that you fhouid 
at that time look over the plants three 
times a week, gathering each time 
fuch of the feed-veffcls as are ripe. 
which fhould be laid upon a paper to 
dry, and may tlien be put up until the 
feafon of fowing. 

As the plants which arife froin feeds, 
generally flower much better than off. 
fcts, ihofe who would have thefe flow- 
ers in perfeftion fhould annually fow 
their fteds. 

POMEGRANATE (PaWf.i.) This 
tree is a native of Spaio, Italy, Portu- 
gal, &c. but when pi mted againfl a 
warm wall, v.ill often produce fruit 

Vot. II. 



in England. There arc fcveral varieties, 
and may be propagated by layers. 

POND, a rtfervoiror receptacle for 
colle(ning and preferving water. 

The necefp.ty cf water^ In all pas- 
tures, is fclf-evidtnt ; aTcattle cannot 
live without it, and the driving of them 
far for it is known to be prejudicial to 
their health, in hot weather, befides 
being attended with great trouble, and 
a confiderable lofs of time. This is fo 
fcniibly felt in many parts of England, 
that people are obliged to dig wells, 
even to fuch a depth as, frequently, to 
require the aflifl-jncc of a horfe to draw 
up tlie witer. The means of render- 
ing it eafily come at mult tlierefore 
inhance the value of the land where it 
can be fo procured, and it is of very ef- 
fential confcquence to the hufband- 
man. 

Where the furface of the ground is 
fand or gravel, there feldom is occafion 
to dig deep for water ; becaufe fuch 
foils generally lie upon marie, or fome 
other rich earth, through which the 
water cannot defcend. Beds of clay 
are moft commonly thicker than thofe 
of fand or gravel j and chalk is, too 
often, the thickefl of all. But where- 
ever water is wanting, the farmer 
fhould bore through the incumbent 
earth, if he intends to fit his land for 
pallure: and if he finds the expenceof 
obtaining it too great, his befl way 
will be to convert the ground, fo cir- 
cumflanced, into arable, or to plane 
it with timber-trees fuited to the nature^ 
of tiie f.jil, 

V/herever water flagtiates In a fandy 
or gravelly foil, the hufbandman fees 
at once at what depth is the furface of 
the earth which retains it. But in 
other foils, and when this does not 
happen, Palladius, and the authors of 
the Maijon Rujli(juc, give the following 
diredions how to feek for water, with 
the greatefl probability of fuccefs. 

Where rufhes, reeds, flags, willows, 
or otiier aquatic plants grow fponta- 
reoufly, or where frogs are obferved to 
lie fquatted down clcfe to the ground, 
in order to receive it!> moifture, th«rc 
generally is water underneath. Per- 
fons who make it thtir bufinefs to find 
out fpringsfor fountains, cafcades, &c. 
look upon it as an infallible fign of 
fubterranean water, when they fee a 
vapour arife frequently fiom the fame 

F f f'lot 



POM 



POM 



fpot of ground. Others aflore, tiial 
wherever fwarms of little flies arc feen 
tronftantly flyiti^ i" the fame place, and 
near to the ground, in tlic morning, 
after fan-rife, there certainly is water 
under that fpot. Again, where wattr 
is wanted on land apparently dry, let 
a man, before fun-iifc, lie down flit 
on his belly, ref^in; his chin opon his 
fill placed clofe to the ground, that his 
View may be dircQed quite horizon- 
tally, and not rife too high, and in that 
fituation let hitnlook Hedfartly toward 
the eaft. If he then fees a tremulous 
■vapour arife from any particular fpot, 
let hjm mark the pUce, by noticing 
fome neighhouringtrec, fhrub, or other 
indication, and he will find water un- 
derneath it. But this experiment is 
to be made only on ground whofe fur- 
face is dry ; becaufe other exh,ilai:ms, 
from a damp furface, would be apt, in 
this vafc, to miflead the enquirer. 

Another way is thus : Dig a hole 
three feet wide, and at leaf} five feet 
deep, and place at the bottom of ir, 
when the fun is a'lout to fet, a pan, or 
bafon, rubbed with oil on the infide : 
let the bottom of this veJTel be upper- 
moftj cover it witti dry hay, fern, or 
tOlhes, and over that with earth ; and 
if any drops of water are found fland- 
ing on Its JnCde the next day, a fpring 
IS probably not far ofF. Or, put a 
nerv, unbaked, but well dried, earthen 
veffel into fuch a hole, and cover it as 
before; and if there be water in that 
place, this veffel will be found foft and 
wet the next day. Likewife, if wool 
he left M night in a trench of this 
kind, and water can be fqueezed out 
of it the next day, little doubt remains 
but that plenty of water may be met 
with there. 

The month of Auguft is generally 
looked upon as the moft proper time 
to fearch fcr water; becaufe, as the 
heat of tlie preceding fummer wit! iiave 
warmed the earth to a confiderahle 
depth, any fteam arifing from water 
reding on an impervious foil under- 
neath, and particularly in hollows on 
the furface of that impervious foil, will 
then be mcft exhaled by this warmtli. 
Now it is this !team, <3r vapour, which 
produces the before-mentioned figns. 

Ry whatever method water is found, 
the means ot coming eafsly at it a:e tlie 
next conl'tdcration. If it be on a plain. 



there Is no other way thin digjing a 
well. In doing thl.<i, thefubftirceim- 
der the fand cr light foil mu.'\ be du< 
into, to form a refcrvoir of water for 
p'.-cafional wants ; and this refcrvoir 
fhould be made dcfp and large, in pro- 
portion to the quantity wanted. If 
there were no fuch rcfervcijr, the wa- 
ter, after having rifen » little above the 
injpcrvious body underneath, would 
glide along its furface, as ufu^l, and 
very little of it could then be obtained, 
either by pump*, buckets, or any other 
way employed to raife it. If the well 
is made in a Hoping ground, and the 
declivity is futiicient to give it an ho- 
rizontal vent, it will be worth the 
hulbandman's while to dig fuch a paf- 
fage, and, by means of pipes, or any 
other conveyance, to carry the water 
acrofs the light foil, through which it 
would otherwife fink. The greaiefl 
quantity of water will be obtained in 
tliii manner, becaufe there will then 
be a continual ftream. 

If the foil is very deep, and its fur- 
face has inequalities in which rain- 
water runs in any quantity; this may 
be colieQed in ponds made in the low- 
eft parts of fuch grounds. 

If a lody of clay is found near the 
furface, it is worth the farmer's while 
to bore, tliat he may know at what 
depth a bed of fand or gravel may be 
met with, for lie will l^e fure to find 
plenty of water in this laft. If this be 
in a declivity, he need only cut an ho- 
rizontal paffage, and the water will 
flow fo freely as even to double the 
value of his land. 

Here again the farmer needs j>ot ever 
to he at a Jofj, becaufe it cannot be 
ve'-y difficult to make a pond in a clayey 
foil, which is, of itfelf, retentive of 
water. Eut it may, perhaps, be ad- 
vifeable, even in this, to cover the bot- 
tom of tlie pond with a coat of gravel, 
in order to prevent its being poached 
by cattle, vvrliofe feet would otherwife 

be a])t to fink deep into the clay. 

Some farmers judicioufly pave the de- 
clivity by which the cattle enter into 
the pond, and this renders it much 
more lading than it would otlierwife 
be, and prefoi ves the water clean. 

When ponds are made in a loofe foil, 

much moie care is necefiary. Tlie 

bottom and fidts there muft l»€ covered 

wall a fhick ccat of the tcughelt clay, 

fr.m 



POP 

from a foot to two feet thick, well 
lammed down. Some have added hair 
and loam to the outer part of tl.is co- 
vering, with a view of rcnderini; it lefs 
liable to chap : but a thick coat of 
gravwl is more nec.J'.iry hcc, that the 
feet of the cattle may not pierce chrouph 
the clay. Perhaps theexpeiice of pav- 
ing the whole inlidc of a pond niigtit, 
in the end, be money well laid our. 

The grca'.eft difficulty of finding 
vracer ii in chalky foili, becaufe thefe 
arc not, of themfclves, very retentive 
ci it, and generally lie in fiich thick 
beds, that it is ex{)cnfive to di j through 
tliem. However, it (hould be tri;d ; 
and if find or gravel be found under- 
■ peath, virater r/iay be descended on.— 
Even here, ponds are ea!i!y made, by 
digging into the chalk, and lining them 
with a coat of clay, as before direfted. 
If there be a fupply of proper manure, 
fach as clay or marie, this fituaticn is 
well adapted to grain, which loves to 
fland dry j and as this kind of ground 
produces more forward crops than 
clayey or Arong foils, it may be fov.ed 
early with corn, which will not, in 
that cafe, be fo apt to be parched up 
as grafs is, by the fummer's drought. 
If a good foil can be made here, a foot 
deep, it will yield plenty of various 
forts of paflure, either root* or grafles, 
as the farmer fhall judge moft proper : 
or it mny be planted with different 
kinds of timher ire;s. 

POPL.-VR-lTvEE, (Populus.) A ge- 
nus of trees, of which botanifU enn- 
mer.ite four fpecies, viz. the common 
white poplar, with large leaves ; the 
common white poplar, with fmaller 
leaves i the comnncn black poplar, and 
the poplar with trembling leaves, cilled 
the afpen-tree. The poplar, whether 
black or white, may be eafily propa- 
gated, either by layers, cuttings, or 
fuckers, of which the white kind al- 
ways produces a great many from the 
roots. The beft feafon for the tranf- 
planting thsfe fucker-, is in Oftober, 
when the Icsves begin to decay ; and 
they Ihould be removed into a nurfery 
for two or three )':-ir^, at the end of 
which time they wijI have got ftiength 
enough to be tranfpianted into the 
places where they arc to lemain. 

Whin they are to be propagated by 
cuttings, it i: htli to do that in Fs- 



P O P 

bnjary, cctting off large tronclwom o f. . 
eight or ten feet Icngj which, being 
thrutt down a foot deep in the groaad, 
will take root very quickly, and, if 
the foil be moift, will grow to a con- 
fiderable fize in a few yiars. 

The black poplar it not fo eafily 
raifcd from thtfe large truncheons, but 
fhould be planted in cuttings, of aboa( 
a foot and a half long, planting them 
a foot deep in the ground. This* will 
grow on almoft any foil, but does 
much better on a moift one than on 
any other. They are the fitteft of ail 
tree? for raifing a ihade quickly, as 
they will grow fourteen feet in height 
fomctimes in one feafon, and in four 
or five years will be large trees. 

A confiderable advantage may be 
obtained by planting thefe trees upon 
moift boggy foils, where few other 
trees will thrive : mnny fuch places 
there are in England, which do not, at 
prefent, bring in much money to their 
owners ; whereas, if they were plant- 
ed with thefe trees, they would, in a 
very few years, over-purjhafe the 
ground, clear of all expence : but 
there are many pcrfons in England, 
who think nothing except corn worth 
cultivating ; or, if they plant timber, 
it mult be o:ik, afh, or elm ; and, it 
their land be not proper for either of 
thefe, it is deemed little worth j where- 
as, if the natirre of the foil were ex- 
amined, and proper forts of plants 
adapted to it, there might be a very 
great advantage made of feveral large 
trafts of lands, which a: this time lie 
negie£>ed. 

The wood of thefe trees, efpecially 
of the white, is very goc.d to lay for 
fioors, where it will laft many years; 
and, for its exceeding whitenefs, is, by 
many perfons, preferred to oak ; bur, 
being of a foft contexture, is veryfub- 
jeit to take the iinprtfTion of n.iils, 
&c. v\hich renders it lefs proper for 
this purpofe: it is alfo very proper for 
wainfcotting of room , being lefs fub- 
jeft tofwell or fhrink, than mofl other 
forts of wood : but for turnery-ware, 
there is no wood equal to this for its 
exceeding whitenefs, fo that trays, 
bowls, and many ether utenfiis, are 
made of it ; and the bellows -makers 
prtfer it for their afe ; as do aifo the 
fhoemakers, not only for heels, but 

Ff 7. alfo 



POP 



POP 



alfo for the foles of fhoes : it is alfo 
very good to make liglit carts j the 
poles are very proper to fiipport vines, 
hops, &c. and the lopping will alTbid 
good fuel, wliich, ia many coimtrie;, 
is much wanted. 

POPPY, the- name of a plant, of 
which, feveral fpecies are cultivated in 
gardens for the beauty of the fiowcrs. 
They are all eafily priipa^aied by fow- 
ing the feeds in autumn. When the 
young plants come up, tliey are to be 
cleared from wcfd^, and thinned to a 
proper t irtance by pu ling fome up, 
where the) l^and too thick; tor they 
never thrive well, if they are to be 
tranfplar.ted. They are to be left, ac- 
cording to their fues, at f:x, eight, or 
ten inches diftance. 

They are very fhowy flowers, and 
make a fplendid appearance in gardens, 
but they are but cf a fiiort duration, 
and are of an cficnfive fniell, which 
make.: thern lefo valued at prefent than 
they have been. 

Some fow thcfe plants in fpring, but 
5t is not fo well ; becaufs they then 
liave not time to get ftrength before 
autumn, when they are to flower ; 
and, for that reafon, thofe fown in 
fpring ufually fiowcr weakly. 

The heads nnd ftalks of thefe plants 
contain a milky juice; which may be 
collefted in coniiderable quantity, by 
lightly wounding tlicm when almofl 
ripe: this jaice, expofed for a few 
days to the air, thickens into a fllfF 
tenacious niafi, agreeing in quality 
with the opium brought !rom abroad. 
The juices of both the popples appear 
to be fimilar to one another ; the only 
difference is in the quantity afforded, 
which is generally in proportion to the 
f.ze of the plants : the larger or white 
poppy, is the fort cultivated by the 
preparers of opium in the eaftern coun- 
tries, and for rr.edicinal ufes in this. 

Poppy heads, boilsd in water, im- 
part to tlie menf^ruum their narcotic 
juice, together with the ether juices, 
which t!iv;y have in common v/nh ve- 
getable matters in general. The liquor 
flrongly prelVed out, fuffercd to fettle, 
clarified with whites of eggs, and eva- 
porated to a due connrtence, yields a- 
bout one-fifth or one fixth the weight 
of the heads, of extrad. This pi;irefl'es 
<hc virtues of opium ; but requires to 



be given in double its dcfe to anfwer 
the fame intention, whicli it is faid to 
perforiii without occasioning a naufca 
and giifdinefs, the ufual conftquenccs 
of the other. A Itrcng decoftion of 
the heads, mixed with as much fugir 
as is fulacient to reduce it into the con- 
fidence of a fytup, becomes fit for 
keeping in a liquid form ; and is tlie 
only oincinal preparation cf the poppy. 
Both thefe preparations are very u'.'eliil 
ones, though liable to variation in j-oini 
of ftrength : nor does this inconveni- 
ence fecm avoidable by any caie in the 
prcfcriber, or the rf.tr.itor; fince the 
poppy heads themfeivcs (accoidin? to 
the degree of maturity, and the foil and 
feafon of which they are the produce) 
contain different proportions of the 
narcotic matter to the other juices of 
tlie plant; as has been obfervcd in the 
Ph^rmacopcuia rcformata. 

The feeds of tlie poppy are by many 
reckoned foporific ; Juncker fays, they 
have the fairie quality with thofe of 
henbane, and Herman looks upon them 
as a good fubAitute to opium ; mifled 
probably hy an obfervation which holds 
in many plants, that the feeds are more 
efficacious than the vefTtls in which 
th^y are contained. 

The (cedi of the poppy have no 
thing of the narcotic juice which is lod- 
ged in tlieir covering, and in the ftalks ; 
an oil expieifcd f;om them has been 
uf;d for the foine puipofcs as oil olive, 
and the feeds themfelves taken as food ; 
their tafle is fweetifh and farinaceous. ^ • 

Rtd Poppv crRed-M-'^ici. The com-*- '*^ 
mon wild red poppy is one of the mofl ^%f/f 
niifchievous .weeds the farmers are ^ 
plagued with among their corn, and it Af'*^ • 
is the moft difficult to tlioroughly dc- ' < J^// 
Aroy of almoft any other. Its feed ^ -t 
will lie a long time in land unplough- ' 
ed, without ever fhcoting ; but they 
will be fure to grow with every crop 
cfcorn. Mr. I'uil gives an inAancs 
of the feeds cf this plant being buried 
four and twenty years in a field of faint- 
foin, and at the end of that time, the 
hind being ploughed for wheat, they all 
grew up among tlie corn, though they 
had lain dormant fo long before. 

The flowers of this plant yield upon 
exprelTion a deep ri^d juice, and impart 
the fame colour by infufion to aqueous 
liquors. A fyrup of the;Ti is kept in 

■J '*"•" 

/w/Zi /^ ^ a,/ //\ce7> 



POT 



POT 



the ftnps ; this i» valued chiefly for Its 
colour J though lomc exf>cdl from it a 
lijjiitly anodyne virtue. 

hortsdPorrr . Celandine. 

PfiJfy Porrr. \_Argemir.e.'\ Infernal 
Fis. 

Sfathng Poppy. See B:rry.heariny 
Chickv.eed. 

JViUPoTTX. See Rtii Porvr. 

POTATOES. [Ly.cferfan.] The 
name of a well-known [jlar.t, the roots 
of which make a very nouriihing food. 

Mr. Houghton defcribes the potatoe 
to be a bacciferous herb, with efculent 
roots, bearing wir.gtd leaves and a bell- 
ed flower, and fays, that, according to 
hii infcrmaticn, which is allowed lo 
be very right in tliii refpeft, it was firft 
brcugiit from Virginia, by Sir Walter 
Rak-igh, who, llopping at Ireland, a- 
hout the year 1623, gave away a num- 
ber of thefe roots, which were planted 
there, ar.d multiplied fo exceedingly, 
that, in tlic wars which happened af- 
terwards in that country, wi^en all the 
corn above ground was deltroyed, po- 
tatoes became the chief fupport of the 
peoplcj for the fold :ers, unlets they had 
dug up all the ground where they grew, 
and almcfl fifted it, could not have ex- 
tirpated them. The Philcfophical 
Trarsfadlicns obftrve likewife, that the 
Irifh were relieved from their lafl fevere 
lamine, which larted two years, during 
which all their corn faiied, mereiy by 
the help cf this root. From Ireland it 
Mas broui^'nt toLar.cafhire, nowfamocs 
lor its potatoes ; and the culture of this 
plant has, witl.in thefe la:^ tliirty years, 
been extended to almolt every part of 
England. The rich, v/ho, at tirfl, deem- 
ed them fit for rone but the meaner 
fort of people, now e(\eem them fo 
much, that Mr. Miller thinks the quan- 
tity of ther.T which is cultivated aiound 
London only, exceeds that of any other 
part of Eirrope. 

The red-rooted potatoes have pur- 
plilh flowers, ar.d the white-rooted (for 
Mr. Miller diltinguiiTies only thefe tv/o 
general varietie'^) bear white flowers. 

The potatoe fcldcm perfects its feeds 
in England; and if it did, the railing 
of it Irom them would be much more 
tedious and uncertain than propagating 
it by its roots, as is the general and 
right method : for thefe multiply ex- 
ceedingly, and rrjay be made to yield 
7ait ciofis, wi'.h •■•.'.Je co't or l.ibour. 



" The Irirti Iiuibandman, fjys Afr. 
Switzer, after blaming the Engli.'h for 
planting thi, root uncut, bccaufe it of- 
ten contains live or lix eyes, or perhaps 
more, from which the produce of the 
enfuing year is to fpring; and alfo for 
not allowing that bulb, or rather the 
great number of (hoots and bulbs that 
proceed from it, a fpace of earth fuf- 
ficient for tl-.eir nourifhment, which is 
the rcafon why fo many poor, fkinted, 
unfcrviceable potatoes are dug up in 
the autumn, relates the praftice of his 
country, which is to chufc middie-fized 
roots, for the largelt arcgenerally eaten, 
to f;ngle out the eyes that fcem itrong- 
e(t and molt vigorous, and to cut them 
out in fquares of at leaft half an inch 
every way : fo that one root will fome- 
times furnifh three or four good pieces 
to fet. 

" Theground, prepared for planting, 
is marked out for beds four or five feet 
wide, witli intermediate alleys of two- 
or three feet. I: is then trenched, only 
a fmgle fpit deep, and the bottom of 
the trench, made as in common gar- 
den-trenching, is covered with dung, 
long and fhort, taken out of a wheel- 
bairow v/hich ftands at the labourer's 
eibow. The potatoe-eyes, cut as be- 
fore direQed, are placed upon this dung, 
at about five or fix inches afunder j 
and this trench is filled up with the 
mould taken out of the next, which is 
marked by a line at the diftanceof two 
or three feet. This trench is again fill- 
ed with the mould of the next, and fo 
on to the laft, w hich is filled from ths 
alley. 

♦' The ufe of the dung thus laid at 
the bottcmof the trenches, is not only 
to make the roots grow fingle, for noc 
above one root, or at moft two, will in 
this cafe be produced by each eye, and 
thefe will be large and well f'jd ; but it 
is attended with the farther advantage 
of making the potatoes run, and fpread 
themfelves to a certain detera.inate 
depth, which is no fmall help to their 
grov.ing large. 

" 1 he laft thing to be done to them 
is, in April or May, (for they are plant- 
ed in Februar) or Maich) as foon as 
they begin to rife, to dig the earth out 
of the al.eys as is done for afpara^us, 
and to cover tiie potatoe bed with it, 
-bout five or fix inches thick. This 

will 



POT 



POT 



will give new life and vigoar to the 
roots, will keep ihe green from running 
too much to liaiilii),and will make the 
bulbs grow much the larger. By lhi> 
means the crop of fine large poiatucs 
will be almoft the double of what is 
obtained when tliey are planted pro- 
mifcHoufly in the common way ; nor 
will any farther culture be requifite 
till they are lit to be <iug upj except 
the pulling out of fome of the laigett 
weedi." 

Mr. Miller's reafons fordifapproving 
of tl>c planting, either of the fiuall off- 
fets entire, or the eyes cut out of larger 
roots, are, that though the former ge- 
nerally produce a greater number of 
roots, thefe roots ait always fmall ; and 
that the cuttings of the laiger roots are 
apt to rot, efpecially if wet weather 
happens foon after they are phnted, 
He therefore recommends, to make 
choice of the faireft roots for fetting, 
and t& allow them a larger fpace of 
groand, both between the rows, and 
between the plants in the rows ; and 
he alTcres us that he has ohferved, when 
this method has been followed, that the 
roots, in general, have been large the 
following autumn, M. Duhamel, in 
liis Elements of Agriculture, does not 
object at all to the planting of the cut- 
tings. 

The foil in which this plant thrives 
beft, is a light fandy loam, neither too 
tliy nor over moift, but brought to a 
fine tilth, and ploughed very deep : 
for the deeper the earth is loofened, the 
finer and larger the roots will grow. 
In the fpring, juft before the lafl 
ploughing, a good qoantity of rotten 
dung fiiouid be fpread on the ground, 
and this fhould be ploughed early in 
March, if the feafon be mild ; other- 
wife it had better be deferred until the 
midile or latter end of that month j 
lor if a hard frort fhould come on foon 
after the roots are planted, they may 
he greatly injured, if not deflroyed, 
thsreSy ; but if they can be plinted in 
th-? fpring, without that danger, the 
better it will be. 

The \n(i ploughing fhould lay on the 
grou'id even, and then furrows fhould 
be drawn three feet afundtr, and I'evcn 
or eight inclies deep. The roots fhould 
be laid at the bottom of ihcfc furrows, 
about a foot and a half afunder, and 



they fliould then be covered in with 
earth, 

A fter all, the ground intended for po- 
taioc-> is planted in this manner, it mull 
remain in the fame f\ate till near the 
the time when i!ie (hoots arcexpefled 
to appear i then it fhould be well bar- 
rowed both ways, as well to loofen the 
furface and render it fmooth, as to tear 
up the young wtcd^ which will have 
begun to grow by that time. If much 
wet has fallen after the planting, it 
mjy have caked the furfaceof the earth, 
fo as to retard the fproming of the plants^ 
and this harrowing will, in fuch cafe, 
almoll anfwer tltc intent of a fir/t hoe- 
ing. 

1 have placed the rows of potatoes 
at three feet diflance, continues Mr. 
Miller, in order to introduce the hoe- 
plough between the.Ti ; becaufe that 
will greatly improve their roots : for by 
twice fairing and breaking of the 
ground between thefe plants, not only 
weeHs will be deliroyed, but the foil 
will be fo loofened, that every fhower 
of rain will penetrate to the roots, and 
greatly quicken their growth. But 
thefe operations fhould be performed 
early in the feafon, before the ffems or 
branches of the plants begin to fall and 
trail upon the ground : for after that, 
it cannot be done without injuring the 
flioots. 

If thefe hoe-ploughings are carefully 
performed, they will prevent the 
growth of weeds, till the haulm of the 
plants cover the ground j and after 
that there will be little danger of their 
growing fo as to injure the crop j for 
the haulm will keep them under: but 
as the horfe-hoe can only go between 
tlie rows, it will be necefTary to make 
ufe of the hand-hoe to ftir the ground, 
and dellroy the weeds in the rows^ 
between the plants. If this be well done 
in dry weather, immediately aftereach 
of tiie two horfe-hoeings, it will be 
funicient to keep the ground clean un- 
til the potatoes are nt to be taken up ^ 
which will he very foon after the ftrll 
froft in the autumn has killed the 
haulm. Tliey iliould not remain much 
longer in the earth, left the roots them- 
fclve* be froft -bit ten, which fpoils them. 
A four or five pronged fork is better 
to dig them up with, than a fpade, be- 
caufe it is kfs apt to cu:,ihem : but the 
principal 



POT 

produced from each, and often many 
more, and fcitceany very fmall roots ; 
whereas, in fuch places where the 
fmall rootr, tiavc been planted, there has 
betn a va(t number of very fmall roots 
produced, many of which werefo fmall, 
as not to be dilcovered when the roots 
were taktn tip ; fo have grown thcfol- 
iowingfeafon, and have greatly injtfred 
whatever crop was ojjon the ground." 
Will not a thoroush plcuglung and 
jcood harrowing, after the crop of po- 
The method of laying dung only at tatoes hss been taken off the ground, 
the bottom of the furrows in which intermix the dung laid in the furrows, 
the roots are plante-J, " is a very pocr and the contiguous eaith mofl impreg- 
one, (fays Mr. Milkr) becaufe, where rated the.-x^y, with the reft of the foil j 
the potatoes l^egin to pufh out their perhaps almoft as well as if the dung 
roots, they are foon expended beyond had been fpread equally over the whole 



POT 

principal thing to be confidcred here, 
if the clearing of the ground thorough- 
ly of them :" (or if any are left, thty 
will Ihoot up amofig the next crop, 
whatever it be, and do confiderable da- 
rn age, efpecially it it be wheat, as is 
generally the c.ifc, fown in the com- 
mon broa:1-ca(t way. 

The beft way of keeping thefe roots 
daring the winter, is to lay them up in 
a dry place in very dry fand, or in fine 
and perleOly dry earth 



the width of thefe furrows, and t! 
new roots are commonly formed at a 
dirtance from the.old: fo wiil be cut 
of the reach of this dung, and confc- 
quently will receive little benefit from 
it." But rather the contrary would 
feem to be the cafe, according to the 
Iri(h huToandman, who, feems to fpeak 
from experience, when he fays, he had 



field, at the very firft? If it will, the 
prefumption feems Itrong in favour of 
the Irifh method. For certain it is, 
thatthe land ought to be well ploughed 
and harrowed after the potatoes are 
removed, before it is fown with any 
ether crop ; unlefs the feed for that 
crop, which generally is wheat, be 
fprinkled by hand between the rows, as 



intended exprefsly to anfwer this very they are dug up, and there covered with 



obje£Jion, that " the dung is placed at 
the bottom of the furrows on purpcfs 
to make the roots growfingle; and 
that its being {o i^aced is a;tendtd 
with the farther conveniency of mak- 
ing the potatoes run, and fpread them- 
felves at a certain determinate depth, 
which is no fmall help to their grow- 
ing large." Fa^s muft here determine 
which is right: as they alfo muft in 
regard to fome parts of v.' hat Mr. 
Miller adds in the following words : 
" As moft farmers covet to have a crop 
of uheit after the potatoes are taken 
off the ground, fo tlie land will not be 
fo thoroughly drefled in every part, nor 
fo proper for this crop, as when th; 



the earth then turned over. This is 
pra£^ifed in fo me parts of France: but, 
as M, Duliamel obfsrves, the grain ii 
{o apt to be diftributed unequally ii» 
this method, that it is better to plough 
the ground, and fow it, in the regular 
way. 

If the farmer apprehends that his 
land has not been thoroughly cleared 
of the potatoes, and is therefore afraid 
of their damaging his enfuing crop; 
his beft way will be to lay it up very 
rough againft winter; hecaufe thefrofts 
of that feafon are known to kill and 
rot all potatoes in the ground expofed 
to them, and it will at the fame time 
be thereby finely prepared for fpring 



dung is equally fpread, and ploughed in corn ; efpecislly as it wiil have been 



all over the land, nor will ti.e crops of 
potatoes be fo good. I have always 
obferved, where this method of plant- 
ing the potatoes has hcen pra£lifed, tiie 
land has produced a fine crop of wheat 
afterward, and there has fcarce one 
flioot of the potatoe appeared among 
the wheat, which I attribute to the 
farmers planing only thelargeft roots : 
for when they have forked ti^etn out of 
tlie ground the following autunr^in, there 
heve been fix, eight, cr ten large roots 



well enriched by t!.e haulm of the po- 
tatoes lying upon it. 

Though potatoes delight moft in a 
light fanHy loam, neither too dry, nor 
over moift, as w3S obferved beforej 
yet Wr. Maxwell fays he has feen them 
thrive well on ground that feemed to 
be very bad ; even in deep mofs, which 
could not bear horCes to plow it, but 
wliich is confiderably bettered by tliem; 
and on coarfe heath, where they were 
fucceeded by grain, without more dunj 
than 



POT 



POT 



titan was laid on at firft. Of fo im- 
proving a nature are tliey,and fomuch 
is the land tnricfitd by liic rottine; of 
their (talks among it, and the digging 
it gets in ra finj thein. 

Several ex)>triments communicated 
to f>l. Duhamel concur to jirove the 
extraordinary increafe of potatoes cul- 
tivated with the liorfe-hoe : but as 
this will always be tlie confequence of 
the new hufbandry, wherever it is |)ro- 
perly ufcd, I (hall only borrow from 
him, on this occalion, M. de Villier's 
account of his method of practice, bc- 
caufe it is the cleared and moft con- 
cife : 

'* There are, fays he, feveral forts of 
potatoes. That which I cultivate is 
the middle-fized. It is planted about 
the end of April, or the beginning of 
May, and it ripens in Oftober. My 
beds are five feet wide. I give them 
two ploughitigs in the fpring ; at the 
fecond of which I half fill the main 
furrow. Before I pl.int, I cut a fmall 
furrow with the fingle cultivator, 
which likewife loofens the earth ; but 
if It be moift, I put a double fpring- 
tree bar to the cultivator, to avoid the 
poaching of the hjrfes. I then plant 
the potatoes a foot afunder in the row j 
choofing for this pnrpofe fucii as are 
about the fize of a walnut. They are 
thruft in by hand, two or tliree inches 
deep ; and if the mould does not then 
xover them fufficiently of its own ac- 
cord, a little more is pufhed down upon 
them. 

" A flight hand-hoeing can hardly 
be avoided afterwards, to deftroy the 
weeds which fpring up at the fame 
time as the potatoes : but this hoeing 
need not extend farther than three or 
four inches on each fide of the row; 
becaufe the plough will do the relh 

" I give the firff hoe-plougl»ing in the 
fpring, as for wheat; but earlier or la- 
ter, according to the condition of the 
ground. 

"My fecond hoe-ploughingis given 
as foon as tiie plants are tall enough 
to be er4rthed up; that is to fay, when 
they are eight or ten inches hijh. I 
men turn the earth up towards them 
^s much as pcfTible. 

" As this plant fpreads greatly, and 
(hoots out very fait, it would be im- 
pofTible to give more ihan two. of thefe 



hoeings, if one fhould neglcfl to take?, 
advantage of the time when its leave* 
and branches do not entirely cover the 

bed. 

" The roots are dug up in Goober 
or peiha|)s fomewhat earlier or later, 
according to the feafon, with a (trong 
iron prong ; (hiking and dealing them 
well from the mould. They aie then 
left to dry for fome hours, and are af- 
terwards laid in a place where the fioft 
cannot reach them. 

" This fruit, vvlilch yields furpri- 
fingly,is of grefit fervice lo feed and fit- 
ten cattle, efpecially when it has been 
boiled a iittle. They like it very well 
raw, after it has been kept a few 
months above ground : but it is bell 
for them after it has been boiled." 

The reader is obliged to the ingeni- 
ous Mr. Irwin for the following ac- 
cc'jntof cultivating potatoes inlrelarxi, 
ai'd which we (hall give in his o^n 
words : 

" The potatoe, fays he, is become .1 
root of fuch immenfe utility, efpecially 
to the poorer fort, within this century, 
that too much, methinks, cannot be 
faid towards improving and extending 
the culture of it. 

" In Provence, Dauphiny, Switzer- 
land, and feveral other parts of Europe, 
and even in America, it yields com- 
modious, abundant relief to the more 
indigent, as being eafily and plenteoufly 
prop.'igated in almofl every kind of foil. 

" In Ireland particularly it is the 
principal food of the poor during the 
greater part of the year, without which, 
fince the late unproportionable rife of 
lands in that kingdom to the trade of 
it, they could not well fubfift. And, 
indeed, it feems a particular favour of 
Providence fent to them on this ac- 
count. 

" In time?, not very remote, lands 
were cheap there, and the peafantry, 
confequently, lived on nourilhmcnt 
fomev\hat more luxurious:, and divcr- 
fified : their labour alfo was lefs bur- 
theenfome. But nc>w, being obliged to 
woik hard at four-pence and fix-pence 
a day, and their rents confiderably aug- 
mented,!! will net feem furprifirg,that 
this root alone has become the (taple 
of their fupport, and that they have 
been the tirll people in Europe, or, per- 
haps, in tlie woild, ti)at have led tlje 
example 



POT 



POT 



example In :;n cxtenft%e improvement 
of it. This may naturally be fuppcfed 
to arife from clofc-prcliing nectlTity, 
the moft cogent and infpiriting of all 
motive?. 

" In truth with much reafon ; for a 
poor labourer, in that ill-fated country, 
is driven to feek his folc refuge forfub- 
f.ftence in this root, Irom the inexoia- 
ble impofitionof a harrf-hcartcd land- 
lord, (forry I am to have it to fay, too 
many of them grind the poor ; but hope 
k will not belong the cafe) who thinks 
he cannot get too much for his land 
out of the perfons, or purfes, of Iiis de 
pendents, and who hath fo inverted the 
tild cuftoms, that a hew.'er of wcod, and 
drawer of water, (and many of thefe 
perhaps defcendants of former pro- 
prietors) can afford himfelf but a mi- 
ferable fcanty platter of potatoes, fea- 
<bned with a palatable grain of fait, and 
walhed down with a draught from the 
rext rivulet, to fupport the fatigue cf 
thirteen hours (flatute quantity) of 
linceafmg labour, about his ancient 
rr.anfion-hcufe, or in his elegant gar- 
dens, weil-Iaid outclofes,or refreihing 
bog-holes. 

" The potatoe is a root, a little of 
which is very r.hing, quickly appeaf- 
jng hunger ; I i:t by no means a lafting 
/olid nourifnmcnt for a labourer, as 
evidently teftiiy the fquallid looks of 
numbers of the poorer I rifh ; though 
at the fa.Tie time it is in general wliol- 
fome, agreeing with mofl Jtomachs 
that can vary their food j but, like 
other productions of the earth, forbid 
in many cafes by the medicin;;! tribe. 

" There are feveral v/ays of breeding 
potatoes in Ireisnd, which partly arife 
Jrom the difTerence in foil, and kinds 
of feed. Tlie different foils for this 
purpcfc in ufe in my neig!;bourhood, 
for about twenty years paft, and wl-.ich, 
I believe, arc pretty genera!, are the 
loliowingj wherein they are abundantly 
propagated, viz, 

" FirJt, On rich cLy land without 
any manure, vulgarly called grafs po- 
tatoes. 

" When a leafe is near being expired, 
that is, during the laft fevcn years of 
it, if there be no covenants grounded 
on the flatute againft wafte, .'^c. the 
tenant, finding no hopes of a renewal, 
fets ccnfi.ierable trafts in this v/ay,, 
where tiie foil vi-ill ad.T.i: cf it. 

Vol. II. 



" ."Secondly, on good ley land weH 
gravelled, (otiierwife fmdtd) winch 
<iught to be done a year betorc plantmg. 
l-ut the poorer fort, who arc the chief 
cuhivaiois of this root, arc obliged lo 
fand and plant at the fame time, or 
nearly thereabouts ; which is very de- 
flrudlive tu ihemfijlvcs, their poi ■ toes 
not having the pn-pcr benefit of the 
manure J at lealt one paain three of 
the return are on this account exceed- 
ing fmali, and are from litnce called 
poieens by them, being » diitiinutive 
cxprelTion. Whole fields a^e f.tin this 
way, ^commor.ly called fp^d lane) in 
which a confiderabk trade u iiriven j 
tfpecially in the province? of MunUer 
and Connaught. 

" Had it been properly and mode- 
rately done, it would be a fine prepa- 
ration for the incieafe of corn, and tlie 
laying down and bringing in, or in; 
other terms the reclaiming of land ; 
but the poor do it fo negligently, and 
mangle it fo intolerably, havinir but a 
fl>ort temporary ufe in it, befidcs pay- 
ing near double the worth for it, that 
t.iis manufacture, which mli-ht other- 
wife be of confiderable benefit to lie- 
land, is, as now canicd on, rather tlie 
contiary. 

" Thirdly, On ground previjufly 
gravelled (that is, perhaps fix months 
before) and dunged at fetting time. 
There is but little done in this way, 
except by the gentry, and renters of 
land for their private ufe; it being as 
yet out of reach of the peafantry^ un- 
Jefs in a few inftanccs. 

" Fourthly, On the ley with dung 
alone. Marls is not in ufe in rny neij;h- 
bourhood, though there is plenty ot it 
in feveral parts ofit j therefore cannot 
yetinfoim you how it would do for 
the potatoes in that dlflri^V. As to 
potatoei fet in the ley with dung alone, 
this manufacture alfo is done, as you 
may judge, moftly by the more opuUnr. 
I have, however, olten fetn laige fields 
fet in this way to the puMic : but it is 
rot of late years fo much the cu(^cm, 
this fort of land being commonly kept 
for grazing : this hurts the land : and 
any preparation out of the ley ice 
potatoes v.'ill, if no: previcufly (dri- 
velled. 

" Fifthly, In arable or ftubble land, 

(vulgarly called flicking dr iliiuAinw; of 

potatoes, becaufe ihey are fown with a 

G s rticlr. 



POT 



POT 



Okk, pcinted at the end, about an thick (kin, and particularly that (tiled 



inch diameter and two feet long, with 
tlieloy,othervvifc tlie h'lCh ipade.) In 
tliis mttliod dung is alfo ufed, whicii 
rtiall be noticed in its place, 

" Tliefe are the moft general me- 
fhods tliat now occur to ine, orl be- 
litve that are in ufe. There are, how- 



the Spani(h white potatoe, are moMy 
in life. 

" All thefe forts are cut for feed ac- 
cording to the number of eyes on them, 
and thrive generally well with very lit- 
tle care, fo that all forts being now fo 
plenty, and anfweringfo well, there aie 



tvcr, fomcothers aiiftng from the qua- (as \vc may eafily judge) no over-nice 

lity of the feed, praftil'ed only by the riiftindlions made about them there, 

curious, in wliicli the plants are put The poorer Irifli, who aflfedl not to 

down at nine or twelve inches afunder plant this root in bottom lands, cr wet 

every way, in little liillocks, (like the fwampy grounds, unlefs hard prefTcd 

!.op plant) as praOifed in feveralcoun- for foil, are even in this cafe feldom at- 

ties in England ; and, if you land t!iem tentive about the kind of potatoe they 

at certain projier (tated tinges while put down, the return being commonly 

vegetation continues, you will have a wet, unfit for eating, and only proper 

handfome ne(t of large oblong potatoes for feed, which (from my little experl- 

at every landing. ence) I tliink makes but indifferent, 

" 1 made the experiment of one fort though fown in the belt prepared up- 

in my garden; and out of half a dozen land ; for too much moifture, as well a» 

j30tatoes cut into feveral pieces, each too much dung, makes a potatoe wet : 

having an eye, 1 had, to thebeft of my and plant it when you will, I am ap- 

rememhrance, without exag!;eration, a prehenfive it nevei- lofes this quality, 

quantity equal to twelve Winchelter which is the worlt it can have, except 

bufhels. being rotten, or fro(t-bit J nor will any 

" This kind of potatoe is introduced eat fo well, raifed from dung, as with- 

jnto Ireland but of late years : it is out. 

Iiowever well known tliere. " As tlie potatoe thrives indifferent 

" A potatoe entirely black is alfo in foils, fo there are different methods of 

life in Fingal, near Dublin, frudtines cultivating it: I will therefore now 

abundantly, and eats exceeding dry, proceed to that moft generally in ufe 

which principally marks the goodnefs in my neighbourhood, (and indeed all 

of this root in almoft every inftance. over the kingdom) called grafs potatoes 

*' There are feveral kinds of potatoes, or fpuddane, andby fome (improperly) 

Mr. Maxwell, of Arkland in Scotland, conacres, which feems to be the natu- 

a very judicious gentleman, has parti- ral culture, but doubtlefs not fo good 

culaily noticed fix forts, viz. The to make the land Itand long proof, 

(ongred, the round red; the long white, (notwlthftanding the gravelling) as if 

the round white, or Spanifh potato; artificial manures w^ire added, fuch as 



the blue, the leather-coat, and an early 
kind that comes in a month fooner 
than the common fort, though planted 
at the fame time. 



dung, compoft, lime, &c. ; for marie, 
lime-f^one, gravel, fc.\-fand, (hells, &c. 
1 confider in the clafs of natural ma- 
nures and the belt; and providence 



" This root being greatly manu- hath kindly given them in every fpot, 

fadtured in Ireland, they mix molt of (even in the unpromifing deferts of 

the better forts promLtuoufly, both for Zara, S:c.) had we known how to come 

life and feed. at them. 

" I remember, about twenty-five " Land In the ley, (asl faid before) 

years ago, tl;e large red pct.itoe, then and that which requires no manure, 

called the Caftonian, (perhaps from the Irilh feek moA greedily after, fome 

Caftile) as alfo the oblong Spanifh of which has not been ploughed per- 

white potatoe, to be chiefly in ufe ; but haps within this century : fo that you 

now a lelTer fort, fuch as the Munlter can only juft diflinguifli that it has 

or kidney potatoe, of a wliiti(h or light- been tilled, and the tilth generally cur- 

i(h yellow colour, the leather-coat, or ved, the old people inclining the plough 

tound redCronianpotatoe,witharough witli the cafual (hape of the field, fo as. 

t» 



POT 

to let tbf water in the furrow have a 
drip or fall. 

** Wlien a peafant has thegood luck 
to get a J)it ot luch choice ground, f for 
two or three of them will be concerned 
in an acre, and few take moie than one) 
lie follows the old ridge with Lis loy, 
or Jriih fpa'-ie, un'efs compsileH by the 
polFeflbr of the land to make his ridi^es 
llraight, which he molt unwillingly 
does, and at beft but aukwardly, with 
a rope made of hay or (traw, or fome 
of his wife's wcrft tow ; neither 
of which Uretching tight, and cfcen 
breaking, feldom admit well-looking 
ridge* : thefe he makes from one end 
of his ground to the other, the beds 
being about three, or atmoft fourfter 
wide, and the furrows, or trenches, a- 
bout two. When he dcpoJirs the feed 
on his bed, at about four or fix inches 
at molt afundar, he divides the turf of 
his furrow in two equal parts, which 
he turns aiterriately in fods on the edge 
or verge of e-jch bed, the green fide on 
the potatoes, cutting the fods on three 
f»des or angles, leaving tl-.at next the 
bed uncut. This laborious work the 
poor fellow does furprizingly quick : 
two more men follow him, one dig- 
■ging the under-flratum, and throwing 
up on the middle of the bed as much 
of theearth as heconveniently can with 
hrs ley ! the remainder the third man 
caf\s on with his (hovel, fettling the 
bed in the form, or nr^anner, in which 
it is to remain. 

" Some cover their potatoes at firft 
(through want of time) with only the 
fod, and about four or five ixiches of 
earth, and finilh them perhaps, that is, 
caft the lail coveiing on them, not for 
a mr^nth, or fix weeks after ; which 
pofTibly may greatly check their growth. 
Many account this the beft way, and 
it is become common ; but I attribute 
the negle£t of not finifhing their pota- 
toes (as the term is) in due time, to 
no want of proper knowledge in tliC 
common Irifh, but their inability to 
give the proper attention lo their own 
little affairs, occafioned by the greedy 
feverity of their mailers, as before 
obferved. 

" Oiher5 there are (and many) who, 
making the furrows unproportionably 
narrow to the beds, throw up a third 
fpit or f\ratum, and perhaps not until 
two month* after the firll fetting. 



POT 

" This pernicious meihct! mav pofH- 
bly dellroy or check tl-.e wtcds j but 
certain I am, it will not contribute to 
the incrcafc or largenefsof tlie root, in 
tlieunphyfical or over heavy manner in 
which I have feen it done; becaufe 
this lower f^ratum, which is moltly 
fand, remains on the top of the riclietl 
part of the foil, and being thus unmix- 
ed with if, prevents it from receiving 
the proper benefits of the air, &c. be- 
fidts, too ereat a covering on the po- 
tatoe is hii;l;ly prejudical to it. 

" In other cafes, thefe flrafums 
thrown up, and mixed into a good liltli, 
would anfwer wonderfully, mixing 
well being the life of good tillage. I 
would therefore in t!iis place recom- 
mend to our farmers (jvho are too pe- 
nurious of their land) to make their 
pctatoe trendies fo wide, as not to re- 
quire throwing up much cf the third 
or fandy flratum on the laft covering, 
or landing, of their potatoes : and they 
will find a much greater return, and 
one half for more) lefs of porecns, or 
fmall potatoes : which is an ohjtft 
highly worthy of their notice. The 
experiments i have made, I purpofe re- 
peatint^ on my return to Ireland, and 
hope to prove this fimple method to 
exceed that in the hillock, or in tiie 
drill way. 

" In this manner all ky lar.d is fown 
with potatoes by the common people, 
aod moft others, whether manured or 
not. If dunged, the dung is laid out 
as the ridges are to be, but the fand is 
fpread all over the furface. Common- 
ly little boys and girls precede the fet- 
ters on the ridges, layingdown the feed- 
lings or potatoe eyes, which they do 
very quick, and tolerably well, at the 
appointed diftance. This feems a gid- 
dy part of the bufmefs, and well fuited 
to tl^ir years ; butcuftom makes them 
perfeift in it. 

♦' The next general method is plant- 
ing potatoes in ftubble ground, which 
is, in the common way above-mentir 
oned, by dunging it well, and fome- 
times by plowing it in, and then fho- 
velline up the ridges, a man going be- 
fore, lightly digging them, that there 
may be a fufficicnt quantity of mould 
to cover them ; but this the poorer fort 
cannot well compafs tfi do, and always 
avoid it when they can get a frelh or 
ley furface, 

C %7f '• Nor 



POT 



POT 



*' Nor do they fow tliem to chuff, the 
Second year, in the lame ground, with- 
out dung cr feme other ar iftcial ma- 
nure, (lor the natural, fiich as fand, 
marif , &-c. would not do) urilcfs it be 
exceeding food. 

'• Lime, indeed, in this cafe would 
very probably anfwer, but it i> rarely 
tried. 

" There is alfo a cuflom a good deal 
in ufe, which is by ftickin/, or thrull- 
jng potatoes in llubble land frelh 
ploughed, which is done in this man- 
ner : a man (hut feldom two) goes en 
the crown of a narrow ploughed fet, 
and nicks his /<y, or Iri/k fpade, in it, 
every here and there, with his right 
foot, holding it in his left hand, and 
■with it pufhing the fpade once, and 
fometimcs twice from him, to make an 
opening, (which I have feen done v.ith 
a good deal of dexterity) and with the 
right hand, that contains the itw, (a 
convenient quantity of which he car- 
ries in nn aprcn or cloth tied round 
liis middle, fo as to let the contents be 
eafily come at, he throws one, and 
fometimes two fets, or eyes, into the 
opening whicli the ley mikes behind ; 
and on his drawing it away, the loo- 
fened earth falls in and covers them : 
Soon after he dungs the ridges, and 
covers them up, as in tlie preceding 
ITiethod, witii mould outofthefurrows. 

" Scrtietimes alfo they do this work 
with a iiick about eighteen inches 
long, and an inch or fo diameter, point- 
ed at one end. and fomewhat curved at 
the other. By this eafy means huf- 
band, wife, children, and fervant*,) if 
they have any) and a friendly neigh- 
bour or two, (who may be helped in 
return) affift at it for greater expedi- 
tion, efpecia'ily when the feafon hap- 
pens to be advanced. 

*' In Scotland they do this work 
fomewha: differently. 

" In Ireland aifo there are many 
who fow potatoes after the plough, the 
ploughman letting the fets drop in as 
he goes along ; and a harrow matched 
to the fame plough, following him 
clofe behind, covers them in. There 
is no great difiiculty in this, the land 
being in tilth. Over ail 'hey put dung ; 
but they fliould mind to give it alight 
covering, that tlie fubAanceof it might 
i^npregnate vi'ith the adjacent eaiih, 
V/Mch it would not do, but evaporate 



by being left expofed to the air, &c, 
yet iliis precaution many are very ne- 
gligent in. 

Tlie other methods, as in theUrill, 
or hillock, or horfe-hoeing way, ice. are 
little ufed there, except among the 
more curious ; but they being well 
kncwn in England, it is neediest to 
mention them in this place. 

" The next thing rcquifite is the 
fencing, which (liould be done, at 
farthcrit, before tlie ftalk begins to ap> 
pear ; for if ths cattle, that are in 
that feafon greedy for frefh vegetables, 
get at them, the roots of fuch as they 
nip will never come to the fize they 
otherwife vv-ould. 

" This is well known in Ireland 5 
and the poor, chiefly 1 believe from 
inability, and partly from a fort of 
carelefTnefs or rather lazinefs they 
flill inherit (notwithftanding the mix- 
ture of Englifh and Norman blood, 
&c.) from their Spanifh anceilors, are 
very remifs in this refpedt ; efpecially 
in the chiitern or more fertile parts 
of tlie country ; where, in mofl mat- 
ters of hufoandry, they leave too much 
to chance, relying on the bounty of 
the foil. 

" About ms, and in many other 
parts, they very commonly do not put 
on the firfl covering till abcut the mid- 
dle of May ; and the fecond, perhaps, 
not for a month after ; fo tliat it is 
often July before they fence them pro- 
perly : and where many of them are 
concerned in a plantation (as is ufu^ll/ 
the way) it is mod troublefonrw and 
difficult to get each man to do his part 
of the ditching, which commonly is 
but a forry mound of fods, with fome 
bufhes fodded down on top, to keep 
out fheep that fmell this plant when it 
fifes, (as cattle do corn) and are very 
dextrous at getting at it. 

" Someofthefe poor people are fo 
heedlefs, they never can be brought to 
make their fences ; and then the owner 
of the ground, in his own dei'ence, is 
ohiigcd to get it done at an advanced 
price, and they to pay for it, or their 
potatoes to remain. 

" Many of them, cfpecially in cheap 
years, leave them on the landlord's 
hands ; and, wnlefs a farmer collets 
himfelf, or has a good fervarrt to do 
it, the rent is not had without immenfe 
trouble, and fome of it never. Nof- 
>vjthftandln<' 



r o T 



POT 



mithftanding thefe difficulties, n.iry 
farmers have maue cafy loituncs lu 
this way. 

" Thus it happens, at the time they 
arc often fini(hin>; the feiicinK, they 
ODijlu to be weeding their potatoLS. — 
Tlie weed that moUiy annoys them is 
the Scotcii thiAlc : this ihouid lie cut 
away in June, and if tht inil fhouia be 
lb rich as to require a I'.cond weeding 
(which is very often the cafe) itlhould 
be done in Auguft. There will be no 
«ther trouble with them till digg;ing 
time, 

" Tlie heft time for llus work is in 
the latter end ot Odoher, or iHrginnin^ 
of November, to avoid the early froils, 
which are mortal to them : but if, by 
bad hulLandry, they have been plart- 
ed late, they fiiould be left longer in 
the ground, and covered with litter, 
or haulm, to prevent being iotl in 
this way. 

*' About Michaelmas, thecattle are 
let through them, the roots not being 
then a^cifled by the nipping, or beat- 
ing down of the rtaik : this the pta- 
fants know by the coiour of ii, which 
becomes a dark brown, loiing its ver- 
«!ure; as alfo by the apple and root. 

** The niore needy begin to dig them 
for ufe in Aii?ntt, ihougli tlieyaie not 
then near fo long in i;round as they are 
m England ; which dexnonftrates the 
excellence and ftrenijlh of the Jiith 
toil. » 

. * When gentlemen farmers dig their 
potatoes, they ftt on a great numher 
of iiands at once, two to a ridpe : hoys 
and gitK gather tl>em promifcuoufly, 
big aod little, into bags containing 
about two Wircheiler bufhels 5 and 
t.hus tbey are carried to thefarm-houfcj 
and thrown into a room, in one heap, 
part of which is deltroyed by the fro(f, 
a great part by the kitchen, alfo by 
the liogs, who deflroy them much 
while in the ground, there being hardly 
any fencing againfi them ; a great part 
are alfo Dole by the followeis, or hang- 
ers-on; andl!-e remainder rarely fufSces 
for feed i — of fo little value is this elti- 
tnable root confidcrcd in thofe parts : 
and yet I have often known them at a 
very high price, from ten to twenty 
Shillings, and upwirds, the big barrel, 
which is tl'.e ufual mtafure in the well- 
jPrn parts of Ireland; that i«, above 



two barrel?, or eit;ht bufliels, Wiiv*. 
che(*er meafure. 

" Had they fuch places a-: Covcnt- 
Ganlen near ih< in. the cafe would be 
far diflerent: but wheie there arc no 
convenient arrt br^flc markets, the 
walJe in tarmb is alwnys greit. 

" Though, a> I remarked before, 
low or fwsmpy groun«K i\o not anfwer 
well for potatoes, yet they lomet'mes 
thrive, and arc largj, the meat bein5 
generally (cabby, cicfe, wet, and hea- 
vy, from :hetoo great impre;nation of 
the water, which renders them unpa- 
latahle, and not t' e bed lor feed 5 
however, fuch are chiifiy ufed in this 
way : yet 1 have fti^n them planted in 
re') bogs, which are the wetf ll and 
worrt ; and the beg beir.g previcufly 
fanded and I'ungcd, the l>alk looked 
j;reen and healtliy, and fonie of the 
roots misht [ crchance h»\'e eat dry ; 
bnt iholc pianred in Mack, or drier 
bogs, have been. found to fuccesd well, 

" There is no culture perhaps, yet 
known, w. i4l better rcclii.Ti watte and 
unprofitable lands, than tliat of ths 
potatoe. Ireland can well prtvethi 
truth of tiiis afiertion, in a numberlcfs 
variety of inrtances.' 

" I liave feen feveral trafVs of wood- 
land dubbed up, and brought into tine 
tilth, by means of the potatce hufoan- 
dry. America, I believe, can hy thtf 
fame. 

" Of late years the ha'-d-hearted 
flcy-farmers, that is, tl.e inferior fort, 
and even fome of our gentlemen- far- 
mers, drive the poor into tlie moun- 
tains, moory ^-raund;, wcoc'td and 
ftony hnds, and ever, into the hogsj 
and when, by the culture of the po- 
tatoe princip.illy, th<?y have rcciainied 
t!iem, fo as to be fit 10 admit cattle, 
they are turned o'j* ".vithout ceremony. 
I have in fuch places feen as tine crops 
of potatoes, and afterwards fldX, arid 
diiietent kinds of corn, as ever 1 met 
with ?.ny where. 

" The mountain and other furface?, 
except beg, fcldom fail being bkli'ed 
by nature with limtltcne, grave!, 
(which is the conimoneft) 01 lome 
other manure, adapted to them ; fo 
that it is notliin?^ but hantU, money, 
and a proper limitation o! r|»c zf ■^Z'.r.z- 
farming, that are wanting to miitit 1- 
moA the whole kingdom lock like a 
garden. 



POX 



P R I 



jarricn, or like England i I need go 
110 liisliir with tlie comparifun, 

" It is true, in fonie few counties 
of lic!ar\d, in particular dilUiits, na- 
ture eitlier has not been fo bountiful, 
cr the farmers have not found out ths 
internal manuresj being obliged to car- 
ry fea-fand, and other forts., many 
rriiJes; in which, however, they find 
tlieir account, notwlihAanding tiie 
impolitically too much limited trade 
of the kingdcm. 

" Before I difmifs this fubjefl. It 
may be proper to obferve, that a fecond 
crop of potatoes is fometimes taken 
out of the fame land fuccefTively ; but 
this is not common, at lead about 
ine, though I believe the land is as 
good as any in the province. On the 
contrary, the ufual way is, after the 
firft crop of potatoes is taken off, if 
the foil is llrong, they immediately 
fow bere in it, or keep it till the fol- 
lowing fpring for flax, which requires 
an equally Aiong foil : or if the ground 
be but of a middling good fort, they 
fow it, jiift after the potatoes are taken 
out, with wheat ; or keep it till the 
April following for barley. 

" The Iky farmer generally takes 
tlie land into his own hands after the 
fin\ crcp of potatoes, and fows it 
with here, wheat, or barley, for two 
CJ three feafons ; after which, if he 
refrefhes it v/ith a fummer, or a win- 
. ter fallow, he fows the fame kinds of 
grain in it for two or three feafons 
more ; then he takes two or three crops 
ot odts ; and when it is well impo- 
verilhcd, or drawn (as they call it 
there) he lets it for feveral years toge- 
ther, in con-acres, to the I'oor peoj.le 
for at leaft one third more than the 
real value. 

" From hence we may judge how 
much an alteration of method in huf- 
bandry is wanting in thofe parts." 

POVKD, ^tiiirJuptis, contains fix- 
reen ounces. A pound Troy, twelve 
ounces, 

POX. A diforder in hogs. This 
Is a name by which the farmers exprefs 
n diforder of their fwine, that fliews 
itftlf outwardly in a multitude of pim- 
ples and blotches ; and keeps the crea- 
tures miferable, and makes them pine 
and wafte. 

It rifes from wet and filth in their 
flies, and from unwholefome food. 

The remedy is this : Make a hot 



mefs for the creature, and give it In aa 
ounce of Venice treacle. 

After it has taken this, let the whole 
/kin be well cleaned with foap fuds, 
and tl.on wherever the fores and pim- 
ples are, ufe the following ointment. 
Melt over the fire two pounds of hog'$ 
lard, and llir in half a pint of tar. 
When it is taken off the fiiC, put to 
it as much flower of biimflonc as will 
thicken it when cold into a firm oint- 
ment. Rub this upon the hog every 
night f->r four time*, and keep him 
dry and clean, and it will commonly 
make a cure in that time. 

The farmer muft obferve, that this 
difeafc is infedlious; fo that he mull 
feparate thofe hogs which have it from 
the relt, and not put ti.em together 
again till they have beeii fome time 
well, and he fees there is no return of 
the diforder. 

PREDIAL TITHES, Are thofe 
which are paid of things arifing and 
growing from the ground only, as corn, 
hay, fruits of trees, and the like. 

PRICKS in ahorjVifof.i. Whenever 
this accident happens, we advife the 
owner to turn his horfe immediately 
to grafs, and to apply nothing exter- 
nal to it. If that cannot be done, 
only rub on the horfe's hoof fome 
ointment of elder two or three times 
a day. All tents are pernicious, and 
all fpirits. 

Prickly Pear. SeelsnjAK Fig. 

Prick Madam. [5«iaw.] Houfe- 
leek. 

PRIC?;WOOD. [Eucnymus.] This 
grows very common in hedges in dif- 
ferent parts of the kingdom, in fome 
places called Dogwood. The beft 
butchers fkewers are made of this 
wood. 

PRIMROSE. [Primula.] This plant 
grows in hedges and v^'ocds in almolt 
every part of the kingdom ; if tranf- 
planted into gardens it lofes its beau- 
tiful pale colour, and becomes reddifh. 

Tn-ey or l^'i^fit Primrose. [Oino- 
thera.] There are feveral fjiecies of this 
plant natives of Virginia and other 
parts of America, and are propagated 
by feeds, 

PRIVET. [Liguftrum.] There are 
two forts, I, The common, 2, The 
Italian Privet. 

The firft fort grows common in the 

hedges in moll parts of England, where 

it fifes fifteen cr fixteen feet high, with 

a woody 



P R I 



P R U 



% woody ftetn covered with a fmooth 
grey bark, fending out many lateral 
blanches, garnilhcd with fpcar-diaped 
leaves, ending with obtufu points, and 
are of a dark green. TI.e flowers 
are wliite, and are produced in thick 
fpikes at the end of the branches, ha- 
ving a tubular petal cut at the top in 
four parts, which fpread open. Thefe 
are fucceeded by fniall, round, black 
berries, which ripen in the autumn. 
1 he leaves of this fort frequently re- 
main green till after Chriflmas. There 
are two varieties of this, cne with 
white, and the other hath yellow va- 
riegated leaves , but to prefeive thefe 
varieties iheylhr.uJd be planted in poor 
land, for if they are in a rich foil ihey 
will grow vigorous, and fcon become 
plain. 

The fecond fort grows n.nturally in 
Italy 5 this rifes with a rtror.ger rtem 
than the former, the branches are lefs 
piiable, and grow mc-e eieflj their 
bark is of a lighter colour, the leaves 
are much larger, and end in acute 
points, and'are alfo cf a brighter green ; 
tiiey continue in verdure till they are 
thruft off by the young leaves in the 
faring. The flowers of this are rather 
larger than thofe of the common fort, 
arid are feldom fucceeded by berries in 
this country. 

Both thefe forts are cultivated in the 
nurferies near London, ro furnifh the 
fmall gardens and balconies in the 
city, the firft being one of the few 
plants which will thrive in the fnioke 
of London; but although they will 
live fome years in the clofepart of the 
town, yet they feldom produce flowers 
after the firft year, unlefs it is in fome 
open places where there is free air. 

The Italian Privet is now generally 
prefened to the common fort for plant- 
ing in gardens, the leaves being larger, 
and continuing green all the year, 
fender it more valuable; and being 
/b hardy as to refill the greattft cold 
in this country, it may be planted in 
any (ituation where the common fort 
will thrive. 

Mock Privkt. [P/:;V/>7m.] There 
are feven or eight fpecics cf Mock Pri- 
vet, all native; of France, Spain, and 
Italy, but hardy enough to thrive in 
the open air of England, except the 
winters are very fevere. They are 
all propagated either from ffcds or 



layers, but the latter is generally pre- 
ferred. 

PRONG. An implement much ufed 
in hufbandty, confining of two of 
three pieces of iron inferied into a 
handle for taking up corn, llraw, 
dung, Sec. 

Phon c.-/iie. A term ufed to exprefi 
an inftruniert ufed to hce or break the 
ground near, and among tlic roots of 
plants. 

The ordinary contrivance of rhe hoe 
in England is very bad, it being only 
made for fcraping en the furfacc ; but 
the great ufe of hoeing being to break 
and open the ground, bcf:des the kill- 
ing the weeds, which the antients, and 
many among us, have thought the only 
ufe of the hoe, this dull and blunt 
inllrument is by no means calculated 
for the purpofes it is to ferve. 

The prong- hoe confifts of two hock- 
ed points of fix or feven inches long, 
and, when ftuck into the ground, will 
flir and remove it the fame depth as 
the plough does, and thus anfwers 
both the ends of cutting up the weeds 
and opening the land. The antienc 
Romans had an inilrument of this 
kind, whicli they called the bidens ; 
but they were afraid of its ufe in tlieir 
fields and gardens, and only ufed i: in 
their vineyards. The prong-hoe comes 
into excellent ufe, even in the horfe- 
hoeing hufbandry; in tliis the hoe- 
plough can only come within three or 
four inches of the rows of corn, tur- 
nips, and the like; but this inOru- 
inent i8ay be ufed afterwards, and 
with it the land may be raifed and 
fiirred, even to the very fialk of the 
plant, 

PRUNING. Pruning is an opera- 
tion of the knife psifos med upon tiees 
cccafionally, in order both to give 
them any defired form, and to re- 
trench or reduce irregular and redun- 
dant or fuperfluous growths, or what- 
ever creates ccnfufion and diforder. 

But this operation is particularly 
nectlutry to be pradifed on many forts 
of fruit-trees, more efoecially the 
dwarf forts, fuch as ail kinds of wail 
and efpalier fruit trees ; it is alfo rie- 
cefiTary to be performed occaiio.-.ally 
upon flandarH trees, both dwarfs and 
lulf and full ftandards.to all of v. hioh 
proper pruning is necefiary ; feme fores 
annuall/j a> all kind* ot' wall trees, 
efoa.'ieri 



P R U 



P R U 



cfpaliers, and mo/t otiier dwarf or 
trai'^cd Irui'-ticcs j to wliicli it is re- 
^uifite in order to pieferve tlie proper 
figure*, .ir.d to keep them within tlitir 
limirec! bounds, as well as to promote 
fruil'uinefs ; but ^^ to coir. men Aand- 
ards wliofc heads h2vin>; full fcopc of 
jcrowrh every way, th^y inquire but 
very little pruning-, ej^ccptjult to le- 
trench any occalionai redundancy, ill. 
};rtwing branch, and dead wood. 
V/all tiees and tfiialiers, h'. wevcr, rc-- 
quirc a general lei^tilation o!' pruning 
twice every year, in fuminer to le- 
trtnth the eviclenily fupeifiuoos and 
j!l-p.aced flioots ot the ycif, and to 
triin ii) a fujspiy of the moft regular 
ones; and in winter to give a general 
regulation both tothcluppiy oi young 
ivooci left in Currimer and to the old 
tranclv-s wher;- nectfTary. 

For in pruning wall trees and efjia- 
liers, it is to be oiiferved, that as thefe 
tress having their branches arranged 
with gri.at riifularity to the tight and 
left one above anoii'.cr f.-3rallelly, about 
five or fix inches afunder, forming a 
regular fpieari, fo as the branches of 
«ach tree completely cover a certain 
fpace of walling, 5;c. and as the whole 
fpicad of branches conflantly fend 
foith every year a great number of 
unnec-lfary and ufelefs ("hosts : and 
each tree being liuiired to a certain 
fpace, an annual pruning is confe- 
qucnt!y mcU necelfary to retrench the 
redundancies, and all irrea:ul;ir and 
bad (boots, to give the proper bearing 
branches due room, as well as to 
enable us to confine each tree within 
its allotted limits, confirtent with its 
reiiulir lorm. 

The firft pruning nectfiary for fruit- 
trees is when we .ittemjH to give the 
head its tirlt re/ular formation, ef- 
Jed^ed by pr>;ning fhort cr heading 
tiownin fpring all the (hoots produced 
the firll year from budding and crafting, 
tliai is, the fiift rtioots from the bud- 
ding, £cc. whf: a year old being gs- 
ricrally pruned down in Mr.rch, within 
four or five eyes c/th.i bottom, where- 
by it tlirows all the Op into tlie re- 
maining lower buds, and tt;us, inflead 
of running up ro one lion, it puihes 
forth ftveral llrong flioots fiom the 
Jovver part tlie enfuing fummer. i'o as to 
fill the allotted fpr^e of walling and 
cfpalier regularly quite from the bot- 
tom ; which Ihoots being triir.-.'d ftrait 



and regular in a fpreading manner, 
each at foil length all fummer; and in 
winter or fpring following, if a fupply 
of moe principal (hoots (hull feeni 
nece(riry to foim the head more effec- 
tually, prune fliort alfo tliefe (hoot* 
each to lour or five eyes, and each of 
tliem wiil throw out the lil:e number 
o( fnoots the fame year, which ac- 
cording as they advance in length, 
trrtin at regular di(\ances at full length 
during tht fummer as before cbferved; 
for tie (hoots of wall trees (hiuld 
never be flortened in the fummer fea- 
fun, for this would caufe them to pu(li 
forth many trifling lateral (hcots j 
though fometimes, in order to fill a 
vacancy as foon as polTible, (trong 
young Ihoots being pinched early in 
the- ftnfon, as in May or beginning of 
June, to four or five eyes, wil! throw 
out ftveral proper (hoots the fame 
fummer, repeating however the work 
of pruning fhort occalionally one or 
two years, Sec. as above, either in ge- 
neral or to particular (hoots, as it 
may feem proper till a ptoper fet of 
branches are by that means obtained 
to give the head of the tree a proper 
formation ; afterwards pruning (hort 
is to be omitted except occafionally 
to any particular (hoot to fill a vacant 
fpace : but fome forts of wall trees 
require almolt a general (hortening of 
their fupply of (hoots, fnch as peacli, 
neiftarines, &c. which bear only on 
the young wood ; have that of eacli 
year (hortened, to force out a fupply 
of fnoots for future bearing; other 
forts of wall-trees and efpaliers are 
not in the general courfe of pruning 
to be (hortened, fuch as pears, apple?, 
plums, and cheraes, which fear in 
the o!d wood from two or three to 
many years growth. 

After the trees are thus furnilhed 
with a proper fpread of branches 
trained regularly to the wall and efpa- 
lier, they will every year throw out 
many more (hoots than are wanted, 
or can be converted to ufe, by being 
fome too numerous, others ill placed, 
and others of a bad growth, nil of 
which mull therefore be regulated ac- 
cordingly by proper pruning ; for ai 
the ret^ular figure of the tree, well fur- 
niflitd ,in every part equally fr^m the 
bottom to the top of the wall or efpa- 
lier with proper branches, capable of 
prcdjcing a reafonable quantity of 

good 



P R.U 

good fruit, are tlie principal objcifls 
of prun'ng; all our operations mutt 
be diiOfled to thel'c ends. 

We mu(t therefore be careful to eafc 
the trees of every thing th.it is cither 
fupcrflijoiis, itregul.ir, cr liiiiti'ul, hy 
pruning twice every year, a fummer 
and a winter pruning. We call that 
fuptrflurus which, tinugh good and 
well placed, yet are nicrs tl;.in are 
wanted or can be properly laid in, and 
that irregular which is fo ill placed as 
Jt cannot he trained with regularity to 
the wall or efpilier, fuch as all fore- 
right ftioors, being fuch as grow im- 
mediately 'rom the front or back of 
the branches in a fore-right dircftion, 
which though good of tliemftlvcs, yet 
their (ituation renders thsm irregular 
or unfit for training ; and we call that 
hurtful which is in itTdf of bad 
growth, fuch as all very r.ink or An- 
gularly luxuriant rude fhoots ; fo 
that the fiiperfluous or redundant 
growchb rtiould be thinned by pruning 
out all that feem to caufe confufioo, 
and the irregular and hurtful rank 
ihoots fliould be difplaced, cutting 
every thing of all thefs forts off quite 
clofe TO the place from whence tliey 
proceed, leaving however a proper 
fupply, moreor lefs, of the regular or 
befl placed fide-flioots where necef- 
fary, fo as to preferve every part well 
■furnilhtd with bearing wood, trained 
Araight and clofe to the vvali cr efpa- 
liers at equal diilances; obferving, that 
fome forts of wall-trees, fee. require a 
"general annual fupply of young wood, 
fuch as peach and all other trees which 
bear only on t!ie Ihoots of a year old ; 
others require only an occafional fup- 
ply of wood, fuch as apples, isears, 
&c. and all otTier kinds tliat bear on 
the old wood from two or tliree to ten 
or twenty years old or more, fo that 
the fame branches continuing in bear- 
ing many ^ehrs, the trees require only 
a fupply of your.g flioots now and then 
to replace any worn-out and dead 
branciies. 

For the myrtery of pruning confifts 
an being well acquainted with tlie na- 
ture of bearing of the different forts 
of trees, and formir^g an e.iil/ judg- 
ment of the future event of (hoots 
and branches, and many other circum- 
itanccs, for which fome principal rules 
may be given J but there are pnrticu- 
lar inftances wliich cannot be iudged 

Vot.H. 



,P Ji U 

of but upon the ffot, and depend 
chiefly upon praftice and obfeivation. 

Tlie nature or mode of bearing of 
the dirtereiit forts o{ wall and cfpalier 
ttee>, tec. is materially to be confiaered 
in pruning. 

For example : Peaches, nc£>arines, 
apricots, &c. iill produce their fruit 
principally upon'the young wood of a 
year tld, that is, the fiiocts produced 
this yea; beai the fruit tiic year follow- 
ing, and the fame of every year's 
fhoots, fo that confL-quently, in all 
thefe trees, a general fupply of the 
be!t regular (hoots of eacli year muft 
be every where prcf^irved at regular 
dli'lances quite from the very bottom 
to the extremity of the tree, on every 
fide in fuch order as to feem comin;.; 
up regula."ly crie afti:r anotlier, whicli 
(]lould be trained p.'inctpaliy at !uil 
length all fummer; but in winter 
pruning, a general (hortening lefs or 
more, according to the (irengtii of the 
different fl-.oots, is nectiT<.ry, in order 
to promote their tlirowirg cut more 
efFe<£lually a fupply of young wood 
the enfuing fummer, in ;--roper places 
for training in for next year's bearing, 
the fruit being generally produced all 
along their iiJ.es, immediately fro.Ti 
the eyes, tliey rar^-ly forming any con- 
fiderable fruit-f;)urij as in tlie apple, 
pear, &c. but the fame fhoots both 
produce the fruit and a fupply of 
fiioots at the fame time for the fuc- 
cetding year's be.iring. 

Vines .'Ifo produce their fruit always 
upon the young wood, flioots of the 
fame year arifing from the eyes of the 
lalt year's wood only, and muft there- 
fore have a general fupply of tlie bc(t 
tegular fhoots cf ea;h year, trr.ined 
in, which in winter pruning muft be 
fliortened to a few eyes, in order to 
force cut flioots from their lower parts 
only, properly fituated to lay in for 
bearing the following ye:)r. 

Figs bear alfo only upon the young 
virood cf a year old, art* a general 
fupply of it is therefore neceiTary evciy 
year ; but thefe fhoots mull a: no 
time be fhortened unlefs the ends are 
dead, becaufe tliey always bear prin- 
cipally towards the extreme pait of 
the flioots, which if fhortened would 
take the bearing cr fr'jitful parts 
avay : Befides, thefe trees izr the ge- 
neral part natuially throw out a fufti- 
cien: fupply of flioots every year fur 
H h futuid 



V R V 



P R U 



future bearing without the precaution 
of Ihortening. 

And as to apple, pear, plum, and 
clitrry trecs^ tliey geiisr.illy bear prin- 
cipally on I'oms arifinv; in the weed of 
lioni two or three to ten or twenty 
years old, the fame branches and fpurs 
continuing beaiin^ a great number of 
years, fo tlut having once procured a 
proper fet of branches, in th? manner 
already directed, to form a fpieading 
head, no farther fupply of wood is 
wanted than only fome occahonal 
(l)oots now and then to fupply the 
place of any worn-out or dead branch 
as before hinted ; the above-men- 
tioned fpurs or fruit-buds are fhort 
robull ilioots, of from about half an 
inch to one or two inches lor>g, ari- 
j'.n^ naturally in thele tiees, fml to- 
wards the cNirenie parts of the 
branches of two or three years eld, 
a<id as ti e branch increaf^^s in lengiit 
tiie number of iruit-budt ir.crcafc like- 
wife accordingly i this, theiefotc de- 
termines, tliat in the general ccurfc of 
pruning all thcfc kind of trees, their 
branches that are trained in for bear- 
ing muft not be pruned or fhoptened, 
but trained at fu:l length ; for if they 
were (hortened it would divelt them 
of tiie very paits where fruit-buds 
would have firlf appeared, and inflead 
thereof would threw out a number of 
ftrong unnectflary wcod flioots, from 
all the remaining eyes : therefore let 
all the (hoots or branches of thefe 
trees be trained principally at full 
length, and as they advance, ftill con- 
tinue tlfin entire ; thus they will all 
readily ft:rm the aforii- mentioned little 
ipurs or fruit-buds from almoft every 
eye 5 when indeed there is a vacancy, 
and tlsere is only one fhoot where 
two or three may be requif;te, in 
this cafe only pruning. or (hortening 
>s allowable in thefe trees, to force 
cut the fuppiy required. 

In thef'; trees ^reat care is nccefTary 
to prtferve all the proper fruit-buds 
or fpurs; wliicli are readily diflin- 
guilhed by their (hort, thick, robull 
growth, rarely exceeding one or two 
inches long. 

In the general courfe of pruning all 
forts of wall and efpalier trees, that 
when difplacing the fuperfiuous and 
ill-pl3:td wood?, &c. always take 
them on quite dofe both in the fum 
mer and winter pruning, not leavirig 



any fpurs or flumps of them an Inch 
or two long, as often done, which fills 
th.e tree full of difagreeable flumps, 
and which pufliing out ftrongly frooi 
every eye, crowd the tree with a 
multitude of unnecefTary and irregu- 
lar fhoots, and caufe great confufion 
and obfcurity, and exhaull the fap to 
no purpofe, as well as occafion a 
great deal of labour to retrench them j 
remember, therefore, that all fhoots 
and branches necelTary to be retrenched 
mull be taken t.ff quite clofe to the 
place from whence they arife ; which 
in the fummer pruning if attended to 
early, while the fhoots are quite young 
and tender, they may readily be rub- 
bed off quite clofe with the thumb; 
but when the fhoots become older and 
woody, as they will not readily break, 
it muft be done with a knife, cutting 
them as clofc as pofTible, and all win- 
ter pruning mufl always be perfomed 
with a knife. 

It fliould alfo generally be obferved 
in pruning in fummer, that all the ne- 
cefT.iry fupply of regular fhoots that 
are left for training in fhould never 
be fliortened during this feafon, unlefs 
to particular fhoots to fill a vacancy ; 
for by a general rtiortening in this fea- 
fon, all the fhoots fo treated would 
f6on pu(h again vigoroufly from every 
eye, and run your trees into a perfeft 
thicket of ufelefs wood ; therefore all 
forts, whether they require (hortening 
in the winter pruning or not, fhould 
in the fummer drefTing, be layed in at 
full length. 

Two fcafons of pruning are requl- 
fite for all forts of wall and efpalier 
trees, a fummer and a winter pruning. 

Summer Pruning. The fummer 

pruning is a mofl necelTary operation ; 
every one muft know that in fpring 
and fummer, wall and efpalier trees 
abound witli a great number of young 
fhoots that require thinning and other 
reforms to preferve the beauty of the 
trees and encourage the fruit, and the 
fooner it is performed the better; it is 
therefore advifeable to begin tliis work 
in May or early in June, and timely 
dilburthen the trees of all evidently 
redundant or fuperfluous growth and 
ill-placed and bad flioots, which may 
be performed with confiderably more 
expedition and exaflnefs than when 
after the trees have fhot a conllderable 
length and rua into confufion and 
diforder. 



P R U 



P R U 



dlibrcJer, by their (hoots fcamlng a 
thicket, when it will, In a manner 
he impoHible to fee wliat you are a- 
bout, befides the difadvantaje of 
choaking up the fruit behind fuch a 
thicket of wood and leaves ; it is 
therefore of great importance to per- 
form this operation in the m^ nth of 
May or early in June, cr wlicn the 
fame year's rtioots are fufhcicnily 
formtd to enable you to niakc a proper 
choice, and tender enough to requite 
no other inftrument than the thumb 
to difplace the bad grov.:h» and fu- 
pcrfliiitiej. 

However, at any rate, let tJ,e work 
of fummer pruning be beean before 
the trees have fo far adv.mced in 
(hooting ai to caufe mucii confufion, 
which would coft ^fou a great deal of 
pains,precaution, and perplexity, to pe- 
retrate and break through the obfcurity 
to determine what is proper to re- 
trench or what to leave. 

In this pruning, we obferve above, 
tliat a great many more fhoots arife 
from all the principal branches than 
are wanted, or tliat can pofTibly be 
trained with regulatiry, or t';at are 
well placed or proper for the purpofe5 
our bufinefs therefore now is to thin 
and regulate them, by pruning away 
the fuperfluous fhoots, aiKl all fuch 
as are ill-placed and of bad growth as 
aforefaid j as to fuperfluous fhoots they 
are to be confidered as fuch when any 
tree throws out a redundancy of v/ood, 
or much more than what is wanted, 
or that can be trained in ; of thefe 
you mud now retrench the moil ii re- 
gular placed, weakelt, and all fucli as 
are evidently not wanted for ufe, and 
where two or more fliocts any where 
arife from the fame eye, clear all away 
but one of the beft, referving a fuffi- 
ciency of the moderately rtrong and 
moft regular placed fide fhoots, and 
always a leading one at the end of e- 
very branch, all of which to be trained 
in to choofe from in the winter pru- 
ning, leaving more or lefs in propor- 
tion, according to what the trees are, 
or the mode of bearing before hinted ; 
though in all thofe trees that bear al- 
ways on the young wood leave ratl.er 
jnore (hoots at prefent than what may 
appear juft necelTary, efpecially of 
peacheg, netVarlnes, apricots, vines, 
iigs, i:c, for it is highly requjfite to 
relerve regular wcod enough in the 



fummer to choofe out of In winter 
pruning to lay in for next year's bear- 
ing ; but as to apples, pears, plurns, 
and cherries, <fcc. which continue 
bearing many years on the fame 
branches, (liould leave only hcie and 
there fome gocd (hoots towaids tl)c 
lower parts, or in any vacancy till 
winter, and if t'icn not wanted they 
arceafily retrencheri. Ill-placed (hoots 
being fuch as either grow direclly from 
the front or back of t'-^.i branches 
rtraigh: foreright, (called forerigbt 
(lioot?) or any other ways fo III plac<Kl 
as not to admit of training wit!> rezu- 
larlty, fo muil afl be cut cut quite 
clofe ; and bad or hiirtful growtii 
being confidered as any very luxuriant 
(hoots, diliinguKhcd from the oiheri 
by their rank, vigorous fnooting, and 
are like to prove injr.rious by drawing 
all the nourKhniert, and impoveii(h- 
ing the neighbouring ones that are cf 
more moderate growth, mould gene- 
rally be removed, except where any 
may feem proper ro leave to fill a va- 
cant fpace, in which it rnay be pir.cliLd 
early to three or four eyes, when it 
will furnidi you with the like number 
of more moderate (hoots to fill the 
vacancy. 

Where, however, a tree is in gene- 
ral inclined to luxuriancy, it is proper 
to retain as many of t!)e regular 11. cots 
as can be commodiouily trained iu 
with any regularity, in order to divide 
and exhaufl the too abundant fau 
which caufes the luxuriancy ; for by 
humouring fomewhat the natural i.i- 
clination of luxuriant trees by leaving 
plenty of branches and thefe moftlyac 
full length, is the nniy method by 
which we can the moft readily reduce 
I hem to a more moderate ftate of 
growth. 

Pay particular attention always to 
the lower parts of your trees, for fre- 
quently we (hall find proper (hoots 
arifing in places necelTary to be trained 
in, either to fupply a prefent or an ap- 
parent future vacancy, or as a rcferve 
to replace any decayed, or worn-out, 
or other bad branch, fo that if mode- 
rately Arong v.ci; placed (hoots arife 
in fucii parts, they are particularly to 
be regarded at this time; and in win- 
ter pruning fuch of them as are not 
wanted may be eafily cut off. 

All weak trifling fhoots (hould now 

alfo be taken our, unltfs any fiiali 

II h z appeai" 



P R U ■ 

appear uft-ful to fill a vacancy, or 
likely to be of fervice hereafter. 

Ohferve in this pruninc; not to dif- 
turlj the natural truit-buds or fpurs 
before dcrcribtd. 

Aft.T Ijaving fumnier pruned and 
cleared any c/e from all ufcKts fiioots 
as above, let fill the lemaining proper 
fnoots be direflly, nr as foon as they 
are Jong enr ugli. ti^ined in ftraight 
•nnd riofe to the wsli or efpaliers, and 
:ill 01 timm at full lenjcth during the 
fiimmer fcnfon, for the reafons before 
given ; not fi'.ortc.iii..; any a: this time 
except as I cfore obferved, when there 
ji any great vacancy, when pincliing 
to three or four c>c:> may be pro- 
per; but ht all il-e red Un trained at 
lull lcn,2;th tiM winter pruning, whe:i 
tliey mu.t undergo anodier re_;u!..tion 
and fhortc-n thofe of fuch trees as re- 
quire it, r.s p'vsch, ne(f>a'-ine, Ccc. 

The work s..f training in rhe fhoots 
jn this feafon is, if againfl w^lis, 
both by nailinr by means of proper 
(hreH and nails, and occafionally by faf- 
ten^ng in the fnialler fhoots with little 
iticks or twigs, rtuck between the main 
branches and the wall; and for efpa- 
)iers tie them with fmall oziers, rufties, 
or bafs firings. 

Having thus fummer dreffid and 
trained your trees, it will be nt- ceflfary 
to review them occafionally, in order 
to reiornri fuch l^anches or fhoots as 
may have ftated from their places or 
taken a wrong diredlion, alfo that 
according as any frelh irregular /hoots 
produced fince rhe general dreffing 
may be difplaced ; and likewife as the 
already trained ftioots advance in length 
or projeft from the wall or efpalier, 
tiiey fiioiild be trained in clofe, rtill 
continuing them at full length during 
their fummer's growth, for every thing 
fhouJd be kept clofe and regular all 
fummer, whereby yourtreeswill appear 
beautiful to the eye, and the Iruit will 
jTiew itfelfand attain itsdueperfedlion. 

For by thu; properly fummer pru- 
ning and training wall and efpalier 
trees early in the fummer, you pre- 
ferve their regulaiity and profperity, 
and by clearing out all the unncccirary 
and ufclefs growths, training the reft 
clofe and rej;ular, the fruit will receive 
all requilitc advantage from the fun, 
air, rains, &;c. and it will of cour'^c 
attain the greater perfedion both in 
flze, bs.iuty, and flavour, 



P R U 

Tenter Frun'irfr.—~ln tliC winter pru- 
ning a general regulation mufl be 
obferved both of the mother branches 
and the fupply of young wood laid in 
the preceding fummer, and the proper 
time for this work is any time in 
open weailior from the fail of the leaf 
ill November until March. 

In perforniing this work of winter 
pruning, it is proper to unnail or 
locf?n great part of the branches, par- 
ticul<4rly of peache<;, nectarines, apri- 
cots, vines, and fuch other trees as 
require an annual fupply of young 
wood. 

Firfl look over tlie principal or 
mothtr blanches, and examine if any 
are worn out or not furnifiied with 
parts proper for bearing fruit, accord- 
ing to the rules before illuflrated, with 
refped to the nature of btarjngof th« 
difierent forts of trees j and let fuch 
branches be cut down to the great 
branch trom which they proceed, or 
to any Jower flioot or good branch 
they may tupport towards their bot- 
tom parr, leaving thefe to fupply its 
place J likewife examine if any branch- 
es are become too long for the allotted 
fpace either at fides or top, and let 
them be reformed accordingly by fhor- 
tening them down to fome lower (hoot 
or branch properly fiiuited to fupply 
the place, being careful that every 
branch terminate* in a young (hoot of 
foiiie fort for a jeadcr, wnd not rtU4t))>e(J 
off at the extremity, as is too often 
jradifed by unlkiiful pruners. 

From theprincipalor larger branches 
pafs to tne rtiuot- of the year, which 
were traine. up in fummer. rirft cut- 
ting out clolf- all loreright and other 
irregular (hoots that may have been 
omitted in the fummer prunint. , l?ke- 
wife all very weak fhoots, and thofe 
of very luxuriant growth, unl-f^ it be 
necefTary to keep fome tc fupply a va- 
cant place ; then of the rtmaining 
regular (hoots, you are to feleft a 
greater or fnialler portion to leive 
either as a general fupply for next 
year's bearing as in the cafe for peach, 
neiftarine, apriccrs, vines, and fig-> , or 
only fome occafional (hoots, as in 
apple, pear, plum, and cherry trees, 
to fupply the place of any bad or dead 
branch. 

But as peaches, neclar'ne?, apricots, 
vines, and figs, always bear princi- 
pally en the year-old wood as before 
noticed. 



P R (J 



P R U 



Bbticed, a pcneral fupj.!/ of wung 
fhoots mud be left in every part from 
bpttoni to top at regular dirtanccs, all 
•f which, except tftc fig, mull be 
mere or lefs (I'.ortcned accorHin^ to 
their fituation and ilrer.^ih to cncou- 
raje their furnifhing mi-re re.idily a 
pro'^er fupply of fhoots in fprtng and 
fummer for next year's bearine, as 
btforo ohferved, leaving the ftrorgefl 
ihoots alway;^ the longcfl, as is more 
fully explained under eadh of their 
refpeftive gcma; but as the figs al- 
ways bear towards the end of the 
fliDOts, they muft not he fnortcneH. 

And with refpeft to the apples, 
pears, plums, clierrics. Sec. as they 
continue to bear on the old branches 
from two or three to nisny years 
llapding, they oniy require an occa- 
fional fup;-'y of youn- weed, accord- 
ing as the branct.cs become unfit for 
Beavrj and want removins^, fo fhould 
accordingly train in here and there in 
proper places fcmeg'^od regular yciing 
Aoot» towards the lower ;.art, to be 
coming pradually forward to a bearing 
ftate, to be ready to replace worn-out 
and other ufelefs branches ; and what 
fhocts are not now wanted for that 
purpofe cut them out clofe, not leav- 
ing any ipur or ftump, ss every one of 
thefe, as we before oLfsrved, would 
pufh out fcvcral ftrong unneceiT.iy 
ihoots the next fprinj;, to the prej;i- 
<lice both of the trees and fruir ; have 
particular regard toprei'eive the fnoots 
at the termination of all the already 
trained branches entire, not iiowevcr 
fuffer more than one flioot to termi- 
nate each branch ; preferve alfo care- 
fully all the proper fruit-fpui s ; like- 
T^ife obferve, that the fupply ot young 
wood occafionally rtferved, and the 
branche in general of thefe trees, 
fhould all be trained in at full len^thj 
and continued fo in future, as far as 
the limited fpace will admit; and ac- 
cording as any extend ahove the wall 
or efpalier, or any whtre beyond their 
proper limits, they fhould he pruned 
cown with difcrttion to fomc conve- 
rient bud, or lateral flioot, or lower 
branch, which train alio entire. 

In this pruning, as in the fummer 
dreffing, it is of importance to have 
a flrift eye to the lower parts of wall 
trees, tec. to fee if there is any pre- 
fent vacancy or any that nppirently 
will Toon happen, in which cafe?, if 



any good fhoot is fituatcd cntitrnout; 
it Ihould he tiained in cither -rtt full 
length, or ll.orien it to a few eyes to 
force iiut twu or more fhoots if t!iey 
fhall I'jem ntctlTafy; for precaution 
fhould ever be obferved in tdkinp; care 
to have bttinr.es a f-'T.cie t (I'c'k of 
young wood coming forwr-id to rill uj^ 
any cafual vacancy, and fi)S;i:tutC3 
new fet oi branches in place oi fuch 
as are either decayed or liar.d in need 
ol retrenchment. 

Sometimes in wall-trees and- efpa- 
liers there are many large difagree- 
able barren fpurs, confiding both of 
old worn-out fruit fp\irs, and of cluf- 
ters of ftump'. of fliortencl fhoo's )>ro- 
jecling confideraMy frrin tre branch- 
es, occafione.l hy unikilful pruning 
when retrenching the fuijerabuniU-it 
and irregular fhoots, wliich inth-ad 
of being cut out clofe, are ttiir!:pid 
off to an inch rr two long, ;inri in 
the courfe of a few years, form'nj 
numerous barren flumps, as above- 
faid, and very little fVun, the trees 
appear like a flumped h-.dge ; it is 
thereicre, in this feafon ol pruning, 
adviieable to relorni thern as well as 
pofTihle, by c-it:ing all the mofl difa- 
greeahle flumps clean out clofe to the 
brandies, leaving thefe at full lengrh, 
efpecially of apples, pears, &c, as be- 
fore advif.f' : and rt-fcrve, an occa- 
fional fupply of young wood in difre- 
rent parts ; and tlius in two or three 
years you may reduce fucii trees to a 
regular figuie and a proper ftate of 
bearing. 

Bad pruning ruins many a good 
tree, as is obfervable in num.eious 
gardens, where tlie wali-rrees and ef- 
paliers apjiear as juA above dtfcrihed, 
pruned every year, yet never produce 
any tolerable crop of fruit. 

The i-eafon is, the operation or art 
of pruning is much more gene ally 
praflifed than underftooi j difFeiert 
pruners have different ideas of pru- 
ning^ many proceed upon little or no 
principle, and often prune all ti£e» 
alike, and tlieir idea of, puning often 
conlifls in retrenching annually mofl 
of the young flioots, fhortening all 
the blanches of every tree siitliout 
exception, to the great injury of foms 
forts, and retarding their bearing: 
Jikewife many pruners in retrenching 
the fuperflwous and irregular (hoots, 
in.lsad of cutting clofs, as formerly 
obftrved. 



P K U 



P R U 



•bfcrved, tliey often ftump them oft" 
to about one or two inches long j ihcfe 
remaininc; ftumps fhoot out again 
from every eye, and fill the tree witli 
more numerous ufeltfi ftioots than 
hefoie, which bein^ alfo pruned down 
to Itumps of an irch or two long, as 
above, pra£liting the fame every jiru- 
ning, fo as in tiie courfe of a few years 
€vcry brancli is loaded with clullers of 
large rugged barren fpurs, formed 
wholly of tlie ftumps of Ihottened 
fhoots, occupying the places where 
fruit-buds njght be expeded : It is 
alfo ohfervahle, that many pruners 
think every branch of all forts of waii 
trees whatfoevcr muft, in the annual 
pruning, undergo t!ie difcipline of the 
knife, fo (horten all without diTlinc- 
tion or re)u<£tance, often too with fo 
much fevcrity on trees that (hould not 
be Ihortened, as to deftroy the very 
parts where fruit-buds would have 
been produced, they thinking this ge- 
rtral fhortening ntceflary to flrengthen 
the branches, which, however, in many 
forts, promotes a too vigorous growth, 
particularly in trees that produce their 
fruit on natural fpurs, forming them- 
felves gradually aJl along the fides of 
the branches, f.rft towards the extreme 
parts, that fhortening not only cuts off 
tiiefe firft fruitful parts of the branches, 
but throws the fap back with fo much 
vigour to the remaining buds, that 
indead of forming fiuit-fpurs, almoft 
every bud pu/hes out luxuriant flioots, 
and the trees are continually crouded 
with unneceflary wood, caufmg a great 
annual trouble to retrench it, without 
tiie pleafure of having a quarter of a 
crop of fruit ; befides the annually 
cutting out fo much (Irong wood is 
very prejudicial to fome forts of iruit- 
irecs. 

Too fevere pruning Is very prejudi- 
cial to the health of fome forts of 
ilcne fruit-trees in paitlcular, cauling 
them to gum and foon decay. 

Plums and cherries in pirtlciilar 
tre often greatly damaged by a too fe- 
vere difcipline of the knife, th.efe trte> 
being very liable to gum by large am- 
putations ; it is therefore of import- 
.ince to attend to thtfe trees well in 
• lie fummer pjuning. to retrencli all 
the fiiperfluou«; and irregular flioots 
betimes in t!:e fummer while quite 
>oung, and pinch others occaiionally 
where wood i; wsnred to fill vacan- 



cies. To as to require but little pru- 
ning out of large wood in winter. 

But if our former hints in the fum- 
mer and winter pruning are attended 
to in retrenching the ufelefs wood 
every year at tl.e time advifcd, yoii 
will always preferve your trees free 
from all incumbrance and every part 
will be regularly fiUed with bearing 
wood, and their general management 
will prove eafy. 

A general nailing, &c. mufl every 
year be performed according as we 
adv.incewith the pruning. 

Therefore it is proper that every 
tree as foon as pruned be dired^ly 
nailed to the wall, or if efpaliers, tie 
them to the treilage, obferving, tliat 
in the winter pruning, as the woik of 
nailing. Sec. will require to be per- 
formeti more or lefs upon all the 
branches, we mad bs careful to train 
them with great regularity, nailing 
them along horizontally, as flraight 
and clofe as pofTible ; never crofs any 
of the branches, but train them dif- 
tinft and parallel five or fix inches 
afundtr, as formerly advifed, or in 
proportion to the fize of the leaves and 
fruit of the different forts, making the 
oppofite branches of each fide arrange 
equally in the fame pofition. 

Thus far is principally all we have 
to advance icfpeding the general mode 
of I runing wall and efpalier trees; 
particulars for each fort being noticed 
more fully under their proper _5<«rij ; 
but what we hive here advanced under 
this article oifrunir.g is to convey fome 
general hints to unexperienced pru- 
ners, though there are many expedi- 
ents and refources not to be difcovered 
but by repeated pradlice. 

Pruning StjKcLirJs. 

Standard fiuit-trees require but 
very little pruning, for as theirbranches 
have full fcope to extend themfelves 
every way, they muft net be Ihor- 
tened ; befidcs, as our ftandard fruit- 
trees confift principally of apples, 
pears, plums, and cherries, thefe, as 
before faid, bear fruit on natural fpuri 
arifing towaids the upper parts of the 
branches, which, as obferved in the 
wall iree and efpalier pruning, deter- 
mines that wc muft not lliorten them, 
nor pra(flire any other pruning than 
j'lft to reform any great irreguU^ 
rity, &c. 

'i'he firii cf rafional pruning, how- 
ever; 



? R 1/ 



y K u 



ever neccflary for ftandarJ {ruit-Uecf, 
is the firrt two >tars ct ihe'tr gicwth, 
in order to form their heads fomewhat 
legular, by retrenching any iiiegular 
(hoots, and when dcfigned to have 
them form more regular fpreading 
Ixads, it is cultomary to ])iune the 
lirft fhoots when a year old to tour or 
five eyes, in order to force out lateral 
fhoots from thefc lower buds the fol- 
lowing fummer, to give the hesd a 
jjroper formation. After this, fufFer 
tbe branches to take their natural 
growth, except that, if while the 
trees are young, any very luxuriant 
fhoots ramble away conliderably from 
all otliers, and draw moll of tlic nou- 
rifliment, it is proper to prime them, 
either by retrenching entirely very ir- 
regular ones, or fhorten others more 
or lefs, fo as to caufe tliem to branch 
out confiftent with the requiiite form 
of the head. 

But let it be remaiked in general, that 
except in fuch cafes of reducing irre- 
gularities, let the heads of all kinds 
of ftandards always branch away as 
faft as poflible, both in length and la- 
terally, agreeable to their natural mode 
of growing ; and they will naturally 
furnifli themfelves abundantly with 
bearing wood. 

Obferve, however, that as in ftanH- 
ard trees of fome years growth, irre- 
gularities and diforder will cccafion- 
ally happen, which fbould be regu- 
lated a little by pruning the moA con- 
fpicuoufly irregular and redundant 
growths ; performing it always in 
winter. 

For inftance: Wi.ere any branch 
grows right acrofs others, or in any 
aukv.-ard direction, to incommode or 
caufe confulion in the head, it fliould 
be retrenched clofe ; likewife any 
branch that rambles ccnfiderably from 
all the reft, fhouid be reduced to order, 
by cutting it down to fome converient 
lower branch, fo as to j-'referve fome 
regularity. Where the head is confi- 
dcfably crouded with wood, let the 
worft of the redundancy be thinned 
out as regularly as poflibJe, cutting 
them clofe to their origin j obferve 
likewife where any vigorous fnoots 
arife in the heart of tli;; tree towards 
the bottom of the old branches, and 
grow upright and croud the middle 
of the head, they fliould be conflantly 
rstrenched to tlieir vjrybrttcm; cut 



cat alfoany very cankered parts, and 
decayed wood, and clear of!" all fuck- 
ers from the root and rtem. 

Standard tre;s thus drfburthened 
from any ccnfidcrable irre5ularities 
and confufion, fo as all li.e proper 
branches have full fcope to fpread free 
and eafy in their natural manner, they 
will not fail to repay the trouble in 
the fuperior quality of their future 
fruit. 

Pr-j-ir.^ Fortjl-Trces, (^c. 

With rcfpeft to pruning of foreft 
and ornamenral trees, flowering Ihrubs, 
&c. it is very inconfiderable. 

Foreft -trees, &c. murt he fuffcredto 
run up as faft as poilible, fo their 
heads muft not be fhortened ; all that 
is necetfary is, to prune off lateral 
branches occafionally from the Hem, 
or if while young, any lateral flioor cf 
the head is of a very rude ram.biing 
growth, and draws all the nourifh- 
ment, it is proper to reduce it as you 
fee convenient ; but oiherwife fufTer 
the top and all the branches of the 
head to remain entire, and take their 
own natural growth ; only prune lower 
llragglers occafionaliy ; obferving, how- 
ever, it is very improper to trim up 
the Hem too hijh, as often praflifcd 
to foreft-trees, as fcarce to leave any 
head : ntvtr, therefore, trim the ileni 
much higher than the full fpread of 
the liead, for a full head is both orna- 
mental and efTentially nece/Tary to the 
profperity of the tree. 

And as to the fhnib kind, they 
fliould alio, for the general part, take 
their own growth at top ; and only 
prune occafionally any lover ikr^v- 
glers, from the lower psrt of the flem, 
or any very inegular rambling fhoot 
of the head, and all dead wood j buc 
except in thefe cafes, let their heads 
mofHy fhoot in their own way, ac- 
cording to their different modes ot 
growth, in vv'hich they will appear 
always the moll agreeable. 

Where, however, it is req'iired to 
keep fhrubs low in any particular 
'compartment, you muft regulate this 
as you fhall fee convenient, either witli 
a knife or garden-fheers, thougii knife- 
pruning is the moft :;!i:;ible. 
Pruning In:plcir.er.:%. 

For the purpofe ot general prunir-; 
feveral impiisments are neceflary, foch 
as pruning knivts, favv;, chiiFels, 
hand-tills, hatchets, &■;. 



P u c 



r u R 



As to pruning- knives, two or tliree 
diflt'L'iit liz'js are requii-te in orriei to 
«ii.it;t us to prune neatly } a (Iron^ 
cne for cuttir.s; out laiger branclic>, 
ihootii, &c. a'lrl a fmall ore for tiie 
iTiore ex.if^ |>runji.g amonj, tlic fixialitr 
brarithci and fliucts of peach and ncc- 
tatJuc-trces, &.-C. Iliefc knivesaregc- 
ntrally niacte cuiving at the point; 
llity fhould not be too long, bread, 
orcluml'ey, bur iiave rather a (horiiih 
nar:o • biaJe, anc' but very morferatc- 
ly hooktd at the point, lur v.-iieti too 
crooked they are apt to liang in the 
■wood, and not cut clean ^ it is alfo 
proper to be fijinifhed witli a ftror.g 
thick-backed kriijt-, to life by way of 
a ciiiflel occalionjUy, iu cutting out 
any liard fiubl-'orn ftumps, £cc. placing 
ibeedg; on tlie wood, and with )Our 
nailing hammer fi.-i.'ce the back of it, 
and it will readily cut through even 
and fmooth. 

Pruning hand-faws are proper for 
cutting out any large b.ani-h too tliick 
and Oubborn for the knife j they 
jhoiiid be or moderate fizts, one of 
which fhould be qu te fmali and nar- 
row, in order to introcuce it occa- 
ficnally between the forks and the 
branches, to cut to exaftnefs. 

As laws generally leave the cut 
rough, it is proper to fmooth it with 
a knife or a pruning chiiRl. 

Pri'ning chtfTels are necefTary to ufe 
occalionally, both to cut off any thick 
hard branch or (iur.ip, r-nd to fmooth 
ctjta after a faw j they ftiould bs flat, 
and from about one to two inches 
broad; fomciimes largo ftrongchiffels, 
fixed on a long pole, are ufed in pruning 
or lopping branches from the 1km ■> of 
liigli itandard foreil trees, one man 
Iioiding the chilTel againll the branch, 
while another with a large mallet or 
beetle llrikes the end of tlie pole. 

A hand-bill and Iiaichet are aifo ne- 
eeifary to ufe occaftonally among larger 
kinds of the ilandard trees. 

All thefe pruning tools in their dif- 
(eient iize. may be had at the cutlery 
Ihops and ironmonger's, alfo of many 
oi il)e nurfery and feedfnien ; and as 
the txpence of the whole will be but 
trifling, every one ibould furnifh him- 
feii properly. 

PUCCOO:>J. [Sjr^ir.r.ana.] It rs a 
raiive of ir.oft of the northern parts 
of America, where it grows plenti- 
tuliy in the woods j and in the fpring, 



before the leaves of the trees come 
ojt, tliC furface of the ground is, in 
many places covered with the flowers, 
w'lich have fome refemblance to our 
Wood Anemone, but they have fhort 
n.'ikcd pedicles, each fupporting one 
fijwer at t!ie top. Some of thefc 
flowers will have ten or twelve petals, 
fo tiat tViey appear to have a double 
range of leaver, which has occafioned 
their beini; termed double flowers. 
Tiie roots of thii plan: arc ti;bercus, 
and the whole plant has a yellow 
juice, which the Indians ufe to paint 
ihemfelves with. 

Tfiis plant is hardy enough to live 
in the open air in England, but it 
fhoiild be planttd in a loofefoil and a 
fheJttred fituation, not too much ex- 
pnfeH to the fun. It is propagated by 
the roots, which may be taken up and 
parted every other year; the heft time 
for doing of this is in Septcml^er, that 
the roots may have time to fend out 
fibres i>efore the hard frofl fets in. 
The flowers of this plant appear in 
-April, and when they decay, the green 
leaves come oat, which will continue 
till Midfummer ; then they decay, and 
the roots remain inadive till the" fol- 
lowing autumn ; fo that unlefs the 
roots are niaiked, it will be pretty 
diflicult to find them, after the'r leaves 
decay, for tiiey are of a dirty brown 
colour on the outfide, fo are not ea- 
fily dirtinguilhed from the earth. 

PUCK -BALL, a fpecies of mufh-/ 
room, full of duft. 

PU:,SE, a term applied to all legu- 
minous plants, as beans, peas, tares^&c, 

PUMKIN. Gourd. -^-^ ' 

PURGING, See Physic. 

PuRGING-XUT. SeePw YSIC-NUT, 

PuRciNC-rr.AX. See Flax. 

Purging Oily Grain, See 
Oily Grain. 

PURSLANE. [Pcrtulfira.'] This Is 
a fallad herb propagated from feeds, 
which may be fowri upon beds of light 
rich eanli during any of the fummer 
mot'th.s ; but if you intend to have it 
early in the feafon, it fhould be fown 
upon a hot-bed, for it is too tender t» 
be fown in the open air before April, 
and then it mult be in a warm fitua- 
tion. This feed is very fmall, fo that 
a little of it will be fufficient to fupply 
a fat.ily. There is no other culture 
which this plant requires, but to keep 
i( cle^r from wssds, and in dry wea- 

thcr 



<IJJ A 

•ucr to water It two or threr times a 
week. In warm weat'-.er this plant 
will be fit for ufe in fix weeks after 
fovvingj fo that in order to continue 
a fucctiTion of it, you should fow it 
at three or four different feafons, al- 
lowing a fortnijlit or thi-ee weeks be- 
tween each fowine, wh'ch will be fuf- 
ficient to \al\ the whole funimer, 
while it is proper to be eatenj for 
being of a very cold nature, it is un- 
fafe to be eaten, except in the heat of 
fummer in England ; for which rea- 
fon it is not to any purpofe to fow it 
upon a hot-bed, fince it will come 



QJU A 

early enough for ufe in the cpen 
air. It' the feeds are intended to be 
fived, a futficient number of the car- 
lieit plants fhould be eft for this pur- 
pofe, drawing out all tliofe which are 
weak, or have fmall leaves, from 
among them ; and when the feeds are 
ripe, theplants fho.uld be cut up, and 
fpread upon ciotts in the fun to dry, 
and then the feeds may be eafiiy 
beaten out and fifted, to clear it from 
the leaves and feed-wefTcls. 

Sea FfRscAN F, a fpeciesof Orach. 

PYRACaNTHA. The ever-green 
hawthorn. 



Q' 



QUAKING GRASS. [Gramen 
Afjximum.j A larje fpecies of 
j;rais, rifing nom fourteen inches to 
two :Vct high, with loofc panicles, 
fhdken i^y every wind, 

QUARTER.* A fourth part. A 
quantity of corn ccntaining eight 
bulheh, or one-ftftli of a load. • 

Falft QjjARTtft. A falfe quarter 
is a reft or chink in the quarter of the 
tioof, from top to bottom; it happens 
generally on the infide, that being the 
weakeft and the thinnefi, and proceeds 
from the dryntfs of the hoof, but ef- 
pecially whe.i a horfe is ridden in dry, 
iandy, or flony ground, in hot wea- 
* ther, or in frofly weather, when the 
-ways are flinty and hard : It is like- 
wife caufed by bad fhoeing, and all 
the other accidents whereby a horfe 
becomes hoof-bound, for the narrow- 
nefs of the heels and brittiene^^ of the 
quarters continually expofe a hoife to 
all the faid accidents. 

This accident is both dangerous and 
painful, for as ofren as a horfe fcts his 
foot to the ground the chink widens, 
nnd when he lifrs it up, the fharp 
cdtjesof the divided hoof wouiirl the 
tender flefh that covers the coffin- bone, 
which is, for the mofl part, followed 
witii blcod, and it mult of courfc be 
apt to render a horfe lame, as it is 
very c'ifficult to form a re-union. 

The ufual method taRin to remedy 

Vol. II. 



this imperfeftion Is, by cntting . off 
that part of the fhoe which lies upon 
the chink, that it may be wholly un- 
covered; then wirh a drawing iron to 
open the rift to the quick, filling it up 
in all parts with a rowel of hurds dipt 
in turpentine, wax, and fheep's fuet, 
molten together, renewing it every 
day until the feam is filled up; after 
it is cJofcd in the top, or upper part, 
it is ufual to draw the place betwixt 
the hoof and the cronet, which, by 
foftening the hoof, and bringing a 
nnoiflure into it, caufes it to grow the 
fafler, and fhoot downwards. But 
there are fome who fear tiie cronet 
above the crack, without piercing the 
ikin juft where the hoof begins ; and 
with another iron fear the chink about 
the middle of the hoof, which fucceeds 
very well, if care be taken to keep 
the hoof moid with applications of 
tar, honey, and greafe. Some pour 
nqua-fortii into the rift when the pain 
is violent, to deaden the part, making 
a border of wax on each fide to hin- 
der it from fpoiling the reft of the 
hoof; and there are others who pre- 
pare a flat piece of wood about an 
inch in breadth, but at the f-ime time 
fo (lender, tha^ it will bend like a 
hoop, and of a fufficien' length to go 
twice round the hoof j and having firll 
drawn the whole length cf the cleft, 
they a,Dp]y turpertine, pitch, and fuet, 
i molten 



QJJ I 

lYjoIten together, to the fore, and faf- 
ten the hoof with pieces of lilt or fil- 
letinj;. This is a contrivance to an- 
fwer inflead of bar.riage, to keep the 
chink united, and to prevent it from 
jarring when the foot is moved, which 
is, indeed, -very reafonable, for the 
leaft motion will be apt to difcompofe 
the tender fubrtance that grov.s up in 
the cleft, and caufe impofthumation, 
whichwill a;(ain open the hoof. Dut 
I am of opinion, iMlt^-ad of this trou- 
blefome way, rhe following method 
will be found mcrt eafy and fuccefsful; 
Fit ft, draw the whole length of the 
cleft gently with your drawing iron, 
then anoint the hoof with tar, honey, 
and fuer, nulten together aa direfled, 
for nothing can be moie pioper for the 
lioof, and lay a thin pledgit dipt in 
the fame along the cleft ; after this-, 
take of rope-yarn, fuch as the failors 
\jfe, which is no other than hemp 
moirtened in melted pitch and tar, and 
fpun loofe ; apply the yarn all down 
the hoof, beginning at the cronetj 
and defcend downwards, cne lay 
after another, as clofe as the binding 
of the hoops of wine-caflcs, laying 
a fmcoih pledgit of fla-x behind, to 
keep it from fretting the heel. This 
ihould be opened once in three or four 
days, that the cleCt may he drdt ; and 
to prevent -ny inconveniency that can 
happen by the opening, a thin liaple 
may bealfo contrived with points like 
horfefnee nails, caft off obiiquely, to 
take a flender hold, the plate of it 
crofTmg the cleft vvlitre part of the 
/hoe is cut oft", and the nails coming 
out on each tide the cieft on the upper 
part, to be rivetted as the ether nails. 
iJBy this method a cleft in any part of 
the hoof may eafily be cured, if the 
Iioif^ be nor very old and dife^fed. 

QI.'EENc/f;;.-Mrf</!,w<. SecMea- 
dow-(weet. 

QUICK, or Siulkf:t-lie<Ige, A gene- 
ral name for all hedges, of whatever 
forts ot plants they are compofed, to 
diftinguilh them from dead hedges ; 
but, in a more confined fenfe of the 
word, it is applied to the white cr 
liawthorn, the fets cr young plants or 
■which are raifcd by ih3 nurfiry gar- 
denci s for falc. i.^/, cj^ ^^// eS — 
Quick BEAM. See Sfr vice. 
QUINCUNX, A difpontion of trees 
originally forruc J into a fquare. con- 



fiiting of five trees, one at each corner, 
and a fifth in the middle; which dif- 
pofition often repeated foims a regular 
grove, and then viewed by an angle of 
the fquare or parallelogram, reprcfents 
equal and parallel alleys. 

Qt'INCE-TREE. [Cyd'.nla.'] The 
fpecies are, i. The Pear Quince. 2. 
The Apple Quince. 3. The Foirugal 
Quince. And 4. The eatable Quince. 
All the forts are cafily propagated 
either by layers, fuckers, or cutiingSi 
which mull he planted in a moift foil. 
Thofe raifed from fuckers arc fcldom 
fo well rooted as thofe which are ob- 
tained from cuttings or layers, and are 
fubjtift to produce fuckers again in 
greater plenty, which is not fo proper 
for fruit-hearing trees. The cuttings 
ftiould be planted early in the autumn 
on a moiit border. The fecond year 
after th;y ftiould be removed into a 
nurfery at three feet diltance row from 
row, and ore foot sfunder in the rows, 
where they muft be managed as was 
direfted for Apples. In two years 
time thefe trees will be fit to tranfplant, 
where they are to remain for good^ 
which fnould be either by the fide of 
a ditch, river, or fome other mcitt 
place, virhere they will produce a 
greater phnty, and much larger frtiic 
than in a dry foil ; though thofe in t!.s 
dry foil will be better carted, and ear- 
lier ripe. Tiie trees require very little 
pruning; the ciiief thing to be cK- 
ferved is, to keep their ftems clear 
from fuckers, and cut off fucli 
branches as crofs each other; like- 
wife all upright luxuriant ftioots from 
the mid ile of the tree fliovjid be taktn 
entiiely out, that the head may not be 
too much crouded.witli wood, which 
is of ill confequence to all forts of 
fruit-trees. If they are propagated by 
budding, or grafting upcn ftocks 
raifed by cuttings, to multiply tiiebefi 
forts, the tieti fo raifed will bear fruit 
mucii focner and be more fruitful, 
than thofe which corns fr^m fuckeii 
or layers. 

Qijinceftocks are alfo in great efteem 
for to graft and bud pears on, which 
on a mo'i'A foil will grently improve 
fome forts, efpeciaily thcfe dtfignfd 
for waiis and cfpaliers : for the trees 
upon thefe ilocks do not fiioot fo vigo- 
roufty as thcfe upcai fiee Siocks, and 
iherefoic may be k;?pt in lefs com- 
paf:. 



R A B 



R A B 



(safs, and are fooner difpofed to bear 
fruit: but hard winter fiuits do not 
fucceed fo well upon tliefe <locks, 
their fruit bein? very fuhjedt to crack, 
;«nd are commonly (lony, efpecially all 
the breaking pears, but more efpe- 
cially if tliey arc planted in dry ground j 
therefore tliefe flocks are only proper 
for the melting pears, and for a moirt 
foil. The bell liocks are thofe which 
arc raifcd from cutting? or lavers. 

QUIT-RENT, a fmall rent payable 
by the tenants of mod manors, where- 
by the tenant is quit or free from all 
other fervices, and is faid to be an ac- 
knowledgment of their fubjc(2ion to 
tJje lord of the manor. 

OyiTTOR, an ulcer fcr.iied be- 
tween the hair and hoof, ufually on 
the inHde quarter of a horfe's foot j it 
often arifes from treads and bruifes, 
fometimes from gravel, which by work- 
ing its way upwards, lodges about the 
coronet : if it is only fuperficial, it 
may be cured with deanfing drefTings, 
hathing the coronet every day with 
/■pJrit of wine, and drcfilng the fore 
*vith precipitate medicine. 

But if the matter forms itfelf a lodg- 
ment under the hoot", there is no way 
then to come at the uicer, but by ra- 
iting off part of the hoof j and if this 



be done artfully and well, the cure 
may be eflefled without danger. 

VVIien the matter happens to be 
lodged near the quarter, the farrier 
is fometimes obliged to take off the 
quarter of the hoof, and the cure is 
then for the mod part but palliative; 
for when the quarter grows up it leaves 
a pretty lar^e fuam, wiiich weakens 
the foot; This is what Is called a falfe 
quarter, and a horfe with this defeat 
feldom gets quite found. 

If the matter, by its confinement, 
has rotted the coffin-bone, which is of 
fo foft and fpongy a nature, that it 
foon becomes fo, you murt enlarge the 
opening, cut away the rotten flefh, 
and apply the aflual cautery, or hot 
iron pointed pyramidically, and drefs 
the bone with dofTils of lint, dipped 
in tindure of myrrh, and the wound 
with the green, or precipitate oint- 
ment. When the fore is not enlarged 
by the knife, which is the befl, and 
leaft painful method, pieces of fubli- 
m?.ta are generally applied, which 
bring out with them cores, or lumps 
of flefh : Blue vitriol powdered, and 
mixed with a few drops of the oil, 
is ufed alfo for this pui pofe, and is faid 
to aft as f ffcclually, and with lefspain 
and danger. 



11. 



RABBIT, The rabbit Is a fmall 
animal, and may appear of fmall 
confequence to'the farmer who breeds 
other animals of more profit, yet 
this is very well woith his regarding 
as a part of his ftrck. It has the re- 
commendation of the goat, that it will 
thrive where nothing clfe can live; 
and the fame advantage as the hog, in 
the great increafe by young. 

Both the buck and doe rabbit are 
eager for copulation, and they muft 
not be rellrained. The does go but 
a month with youn? ; and as (bon 
as they have brought forth they are 
ready to copuhre again. When tl.cy 



run wild they get together in a very 
little time; and when they are kept 
tame and feparate, they muft be put 
together foon after the bringing forth, 
otherwife the doe grows fullen. and 
will take little or no care of her young 
ones. 

The rabbit is diftinguifhed into two 
kinds, the wild and the tame. Thefe 
are kept in a diflindl manner; the 
wild running locfe, and burrowirw; 
themfelves holes in the ground, and 
the tame being kept in houfes, huts, 
or boxes. 

Both kinds yield a very large prcfit, 
though under different management. 

liz Th« 



R A B 



R A B 



The wild rabbit breeds fart and freely 
Jn warrens, or other places where 
there is. room and a Tree air. They 
will thrive upon the poorcit, and bar- 
renelt, gravelly, ftony, or fandy foils ; 
by Aony we mean fucb as are full of 
fmall flones, not the rocky, for in 
thtfe lafl they cannot burrow. In 
tlitrfe fort of grounds the farmer will 
find great advantage from the breed- 
ing of rabbits,' either altogether or 
occafionally ; for in the latter way 
rhey improve tliefe barren landj ex- 
tremely by their dung and urine, and 
render the woril of them fit lor raifrng 
good crops of rye ; and fiich as are 
but a little better, for the other kinds 
of corn. 

The dirtinftion between wild and 
tame rabbits is not founded in nature, 
biJt on our own praflice ; for the wild 
kinds may be as well kept tame as the 
others. They are ufed to a kind of 
imprifonment in their holes, and for 
that reafon they bear confinement bet- 
ter than moft other creatures. 

As to the wild kind there is pro- 
perly but one breed of them, and all 
the diredion that is needful in the 
choice is, that fuch as are taken to 
begin a ftock, be large and big bodied, 
with a good deep fur that h.ings fafl 
upon their backs, and with ftout 
limbs. The hufbandman that has 
vvafte ground in his hands, that is 
fenced well, and not with live herlges, 
(hould never omit this pan of his 
ftock, for the very worlt of his ground 
will do, and the advantage he receives 
from them will be very great. 

A fmall number is fufficient to be 
firft turned in j foi of all creatures 
ufeful to mankind, they are the grcat- 
cft breeders. 

Experience (hews that the wild 
rabbir fucceeds better in fome places 
than others; the young growing up 
much quicker, and theflefli being finer 
and better tailed. Th<^ reafon of this 
is to be fearched in the foil and the 
produce ; and this may teach the huf- 
bandman on which of fuch grounds 
as feem proper, it will be molt to his 
benefit to breed them. 

In general, the fliorter and fcantier 
tliegrafs, the better is ilie tafte of the 
rabbit. The drier the ground the 
kccter ibey fucceedj where there is 



much water, they never are well-fTsv 
voured. 

Of ail creatures, water is the leafir 
necefTsry to a rabhit, for wc fee the 
lame ones will live very well altoge- 
ther without it, on moilt lood. W hero- 
the foil is dried, the air fineft, and 
t!)c water that thcie is in the way is 
running and clear, there the rabbits 
may reafonably be expettcd tofucceed' 
bc(i. Damp groimds, and ftanding v 
waters, being the gieateA difadvancage 
to this creature. 

The common rabbit will very freely 
be ktpt tame ; for it has been found,, 
many years lince, that thofc which 
we ufually underliand as tame r.tb- 
bits, will live very well wild, efpe- 
cially the hardier kinds. This is a 
conlideratiarv of feme confcquence, - 
becaufe there Is one of the tame kinds 
that is, in every refpefl, better than the 
common wild one. This is that which 
is known by the n^ine of the filver-hair- 
cd rabbit. It will lt\e and thiiveas 
well wild as the common forr; and it 
is always better tailed and fairer tothe 
eye, fo that it brings a larger price. 
The Ikin a!fo is of much more value, 
and the demand f jr it among the far- 
riers is conftant and certain. 

For thef*: reafons it is, in many 
cafes, advifable to breed this kind wild 
inftead of the other: but though it 
often is fo, it is not always. This, 
though as hardy as the other, requires 
a better fupply of food, and is poor, 
and of little value upon thofe barrea 
and heathy lands, on which the com- 
mon wild rabbit fucceeds very well. 

The proper place for this kind is * 
park, where they may run at liberty 
among the deer and other cattle, and" 
where there is good grafs, thougn not 
rank, upon the ground ; the other is- 
the proper kind for the mifcrablcll and 
pocreft lands. 

Tame rabbits are diftinguifhed inta 
feveral kinds, according to their co- 
lours and other accidental diflindf ions j 
but the differences arc not great, nor 
is there any material point of profit 
attending the choice of one or the 
other fort. 

The frlver-haired rabbit lafl-named 
is a very good and profitable kind to 
be kept tame, becaufe of the advan- 
tage of the Ikin, The Dtitch rabbit ia 
a macb) 



• much larger kind, and is %'ery jocd 
<oi ilie t.ille, hut ilie ll<in ia of Itfs 
Gallic. The molt beautitui, when 
kept cleanly, ii> the white long-h^ire^l 
raUhit ; this is, by foriie, called the 
Turkey rabbit, from t!ie place from 
whence we firit had it ; and by others 
the Shag?e rabbit, from the length of 
its hair. This is a very good kind to 
breed tame alfo, hut if not kept very 
clear, it is fuhjeft to a dilbider not 
unlike what the dodors cali the Plica 
Tolonica ; the h lir growing toi-eihijr 
in clots and cakes, and this oiten in 
fuoh a manner, that blood vciTcIs from 
the (kin run upamongiV the clots, and 
they will bleed on being cut cff. 

It is not very material which cf 
thefe, or ot the ftveral other kinds that 
it is the cuftom to bieed at this time, 
the farmer choofes ; for with proper 
management, any of theni will turn 
to very good account ; but which- 
ever fort it 6e, let him take a more 
iirifl and critical care in the choice, 
than he has been direfted to do in 
ihofe which are to ran wiW, for a 
great deal more depends upon ir in 
this kin<t, than in thofe. The fkin 
here is of much confequence, and the 
dillin£>ions in this are nice, and never 
enot-gh to be regarded in the choice 
for breed. 

In tlie filver-haired rabbit, for In- 
ftance, let the ht>ib3ndman take care 
to choofe his buck of the true kind 
and- colour, for on thi-s, more than 
en the doe, will depc-nd tiie value of 
the breed. Let the fur be thiik, deep, 
fiDooth, and gloffy; and let the ground 
colour be black, '.vith a moderate qoan- 
lity of white or lilvery hair. It is 
proper to choofe them rather too dark 
for breeding, becaufe the colour in the 
young is more apt to ijrow paler than 
deeper; and a filver tkin that is too 
dark, always will bring a better price 
than one that is too light. 

In the fame manner let the fur of 
the fcveral other kinds be examined, 
when uhey are chofen for breeding j 
for the rcff of the direflions already 
given for the choice of the wild, hold 
good here; the largtft and beft rtiaped 
being to be fixed upon. In the fame 
manner as the!'c rabbits were firit cho- 
itn. let them be picked out from time 
►ir L-me lor keeping, to prefcrvs the 



R A B 

breed; for upon this will depifid g 
great part of ilie aH vantage. 

The 131 mer having thus felcfled I;Ij 
flock of tlicfe little anim.ils, is to take 
his choice of the fcvcral method* 
which are in ufc tor the breediog anti 
kreping of them. Thtfe are many, 
and amon^ therm fome allow niore ar.cf 
fome Icfs libeity to tlie animal; in 
general, futh as allow mort free- 
dom, even in th s way, and moll a;.'> 
are hell ; for tiiough the ribbit wiil 
bear confinement very well, jet ie 
will thrive heft where that is leaft 
ftria. 

Cleanlinefj alfo is a very great arti- 
cle in the brcerling of thefe, as well 
as other creatures, and where the con- 
finemtnt is kaft slrift, there is natu- 
rally leart foulnefs. The dung and 
urir.e cf tha rabbit have a very dif- 
grteable and rank fmell ; and no- 
thing prejudices the c-eature moie 
than being kept nafly with thefe a- 
bout it. 

The general way of keeping tarns 
rabbits is in a kind cf boxes marie for 
this purpofe ; others keep them ii» 
pits; but it would be a much better 
way to keep :hcm in buildings made 
for that purpofe. This might be done 
at a fmall expence, and would anfwer 
vtry well; for it would be clcai:>ier 
and more vihoJcfome than any other 
way. The boxes aie too fm^ll, alJ^ 
therefore arc apt to grow nal^y, an4 
t!ie pits are liable to be damp, which, 
as we have o^^ferved already, is one cj 
the worft things that c^n happen in a 
place %vheie rabbits are to bicci.'. 

Ihe boxes, for ({.icU as prefer t!iem, 
flioii"d he made of thin w^infcct, an-i 
divide! into larger andfmailer rooai', 
two for eacli r-ibbit. One of thcfj 
fhoiild be for eating, and the other 
for lodging and bringing foiih the 
young. Tli;it for eating fhoiild be the 
larger, a- d fliould have a grate befars 
it for lij^ht, and the finalier diovAi 
leeniiiely dark. Before both titere 
n)ul? be placed a trough with the 
food ; and thus the creature will livp, 
thrive, breed, and fatten: But theis 
wants free air, and it is very difTicjlc 
to keep them cleanly, fo that although 
this method may dj, the oihtrs ai« 
fure to anfwcr better, when they ari 
managed properly, 

Thoie 



K A b') 



^R A B^ 



Thofc who ufe this method by bore?, 
ftt tl>ern one above another, in fo many 
flot'cs , and keep the Kucks by tliem- 
felvej, anH the does by tl.cmfcives, 
unltfs it be fuch docs as iiave not bred, 
and with thufe tiiey ludge a buck in 
the fame box. The common fize of 
ihcfe boxes is two feet long, the fame 
in breadth, and a foot hi^h. It is fur- 
priling to fee fo large a creature as a 
labbit live (o well as it does ifi this 
fmall compafs, but it will always do 
better whtn it has more room. 

The method of keeping them in pits 
is preferable, and is tbus. A dry foil 
is to be fixed upon for this purpofe, 
and the pit is to be dug feven foot 
deep, and of a bignefs proportioned 
to the number intended to be kept in 
it. This muft be walled up on the 
infide, only leaving fpaces for them to 
make their burrows. A fandy foil, 
not 'JO dtfatute of other earrh, will 
anfver for the purpofe of thefe pi's 
better than any other. At one end 
an l;ollow place is to be made for the 
buck to re<t in, he murt be chained to 
a ftump, and have room only to go 
to the rack where the food is placed in 
thefe pits, and thence to his den to 
reft. At the other parts of the pit, 
out of the reach of the buck, are to 
be the places left for the d«es to make 
tlieir i\ops or burrows. The rack is 
to be placed near the middle of the 
pit, between the bucks and does, he 
being on one fide by liiirfclf, and they 
on the other. 

Three does may very well be kept 
in the fame pit with one buck, and 
the pit for this purpofe fhould be a- 
bout ten foot fquare. Some make 
them larger, and keep more bucks than 
one, but it is a better praflice to make 
more of ilicm, on!v allowing one buck 
and two or three fioes to each. 

This will naturally appear to thefe 
who are not acquainted with thefe 
things, a large provifion fcr three or 
four rabbits, and a great expence for 
fo tew fmjil animaib; but thofe who 
have kept thefe creatures know that it 
very well anfwcrs the expence. Pro- 
vided the pit.be dry they live mor« 
comfi r:ablv by much in it, than in 
the otiier way of hexes ; and cne pro- 
t'ucfc is fo great ihar one buck and 
three does will bring a hundred and 



fifty, two hundred, or more yotjrrj 
ones in a year. 

Tlie young are to be left under the 
care of thj dam till they are about a 
month ol<l,and they are then to be ta- 
ken from I itr either for faleorthe table ; 
cr if there be no demand either of 
thefe ways for them, thry muf\ be put 
into feme pit, or other ptac* made for 
that purpofe. 

The fan.e praflice is to be obfer\'ed 
in removing tlie young, if they are ^ 
kept in boxes, or wliatever other way. 
In whatever manner the old ones are 
kept, when they have broiight forth a 
ftrcond brood, the firfl is to bj taken 
av.ay, and reared up elfew.herc. The 
common way in this cafe is, to re- 
move them to other boxes, keeping 
thofe of feveral broods of about the 
fame age together ; and thus they are ^ 
to be treated in the ether way, cither / 
rearing them in another pit, or in any ^ 
manner tlij>t is convthitnr, cniy al- 
lowing them fome room and air, the 
more of both the better. 

The reafon of chaining up the buck 
rabbit in the pit, and ot keeping him 
in a fenarare box in the otlier way, is /- 
his mifchievous dilpcfuion, fcr he will 
kill all the young ones. This the do;s "^ 
are themfelves fo fenhble of, that they, 
in their natural wild life, hide the 
young ones, and-clofe up their holes, 
that the buck m^Mnot find them. 

The two great requifites in thefe 
pits are warmth and drynefs; their 
depth, unlefs the ground be very fa- 
vourable, making them fubjeft both 
to damp and cold, in either of v^rhicli 
cafes the rabbits will not breed well. 

The mofl profitable time of their 
breeding \', in the depth of winter; 
and they will never breed at this fea- 
fon, at )eaft not fuccefsfully, unlefs 
they be kept d:y and warm. 

It is I'rom the danger of the cold anri 
damp in pits, and becaufc of the wane 
of air in boxes, fcmiChave been led to 
think of fuch other mtthods as may 
give rabbits the advantage of both ia 
a fit degree, and yet keep them in fuch 
an eafy and ready v\'ay, that they may 
be always at hand, cdfily (ed, tended, 
and looked aiter, in every refpefl, and 
yet have warmth and freedom. 

To obtain thefe feveral advantages, 
by means cf which tame rabbits of 

the 



R A B^ 

the bcA kinds wuuIJ he kept In tlie 
greateil ptrfei^ion of licaldi and beau- 
ty, and to the greatell advantage of 
breeding, let the hufbandman ercd a 
building purpcfcly for them. 

Having chofen his rabbits for breed, 
let liim fix upon a proper fpot of 
ground for his edifice, and draw the 
plan of it of fuch extent as to con- 
tain conveniently the number he lliail 
think proper to keep. 

Let the foil on which he builds this 
place, be of a dry lo.imy kind, with 
a large proportion of fand in it ; for 
this is the fort of earth :he rabbit loves 
be(), and in v/hich It is always moft 
^alihy. 

Let t!ie building l>€ fquare, and run 
up of wood in a fligiit but yet in a 
tight manner; and let ther^ be a kind 
of clofet cairied up at one end. 

In each corner of this fquare let 
there be a den made for a buck rabbit, 
and a fmall polt driven in, to which 
faften him by a chain, in the fame 
manner as in the pit. At fome fmall 
diftance from the corners let there be 
Facks fet up for food, which Ihall be 
within reach of t!ie bucks, and one cr 
two others in the middle. 

When the houfe is thus prepared, 
ht the bucks be chained in their places, 
and the does tuyied in. They will 
all live much more comfortably in 
this houfe than in the pits; and at 
the times of taking a'.vay their young, 
let them be put into the fmaller rooms 
or clofets, prepared for that purpofe, 
where they will thrive and live very 
comfortably. A building of this kind 
will coll little, and the profit arifing 
from the rabbits will be much greater 
than in any other way, becaufe tJiey 
will breed freely throughout the win- 
ter ; and neither the old nor the young 
will be fubjeft to difcaffs. Both the 
old and the young will be, in this 
manner alfo, defended .better againfl 
vermin than by any other way what- 
foever. 

The feeding of the rabbit is an ar- 
ticle of great confedjucnce with regard 
to its hc^hli and iocieafe, and it Is 
Itfs undtrllood tinn molf things of the 
like kind. Some feed thsm in a man- 
rer entirely witti wet meit, others 
almoll altogether with dry : Now, 
hoth thefe methods are wrong, A 
jni'xture, or diverfity oj food, keeps 



R A B( 

them better In health and vigour, and 
occalions their breeding fafter, and 
more fuccefsfnlly than any other kind. 

The dry meat of the rabbit i' hay 
oats, and bran. Their nioill or ••. ec 
food ii irclh herbage, or roots, of al- 
moll any kind, which they wilt cat 
with the greaceft ea^jemefs, as cole- 
worts, pailley. and otiiers, fronj t;ie 
gardens ; and fow-tiiiitles, maJows, 
and the like, from the fields, \o-.v, 
thefe the hufbandman lliould giva * 
them interchangeably ; always ol)- * 
feiving tliis caution, that when he 
gives his r-ibbits dry meat, he mufl 
fee them water; and that wlicn they 
have the frcfh or moifl meat, they 
have no occafion for any; the juices >» 
of thofe leaves and herbs fupplying v/ 
them with a fufftcient humidity. 

It is a common cuiloni witn many 
to cut up the frefh food lor their 
rabbits from under an hcdcje, takii^ 
every kind of herb that otters, lo it 
be young, and the rabi '.s will eat 
almofl any; but in this fome cautiort 
is neceflary, for the herb hemlock is 
very common under hedges, and it is 
poifonous ; the rabbit v.iil eat it gree. 
dily, but it dies by the etiett. 

The hay tliat is given to rabbits mufl 
be the fined, fweeteft, and fhortei>, 
that can be got. Nor let -any one 
grudge the expence, for they eat but 
little, fo that the anaount is fcarce 
worth confic'tration. 

This is the bell and healthiefl food 
of all others for rabbits, snd Ihould 
be their ftandard diet, but about once 
in five days they fhculd have the frefh 
herbs, which cool and fcour them. 
And by this management they will be 
kept tiealthful .'■nd vigorous; always '. 
ready for breeding, and their young 
will be liifly, firong, and thiiving. 

Among the other food of the rab- 
bit Ihould be mentioned grains ; this 
is of a middle nature between the 
moill and cry food, and is a very 
cheap diet ; but it is not wbolefoaie, 
and is therefore dearer in the end. 
The rabbits will feem to thrive upcn 
it, but there is no food whatfcever 
that makes them fo liable to difeafes. 

In general, the advantage of their 
dry meat is, that it prevents difeafes; 
and thofe who commonly keep tl.etn 
upon freth and moiit food, as many 
do, givinj theni carrots and o.her 
eatable 



R A. D 



RAD 



root? amont; it, wovild do well to 
cfian^c it for dry meat in wet wearher ; 
ItT iiioiit food is the great caufe of 
tlicfe cieatures Laving the lot, and 
tliey are mod of all fuLjed to this in 
damp feafons, 

RACK. A v/oof'en /rame made to 
Jiold hay or fodder for cattle. 

KADI A TED Flowtn', fuch as have 
fcveral fcmi-ftofcules round a did:, in 
form of a radiant ftar : tlioft which 
l.ave no fuch rays, are called difcous 
flowtjs- 

RADICLE, that part o^ the feeds 
of plants which upon ve^et^ting 
liecomes its root, and is difcoverable 
hy liie microfcope. 

RADISHjthcnameqf awell-knowfi 
vej:etah!e, and whicli is commonly 
cultivattd in tlie kirchen-garden for 
its root. 

Radifhes are fcrwn in diflerentfea- 
fon*-, according to the lime when they 
are delired for nfe. Tliofe fown "in 
.*;eptember will be lit to eat at Chrift- 
inas,it they are not del'royed hy troll .; 
hv.t tlicy mirft be •ufed whiKt very 
young, for they fnon -grow hot and 
jf^icky. If fown towards {he end of 
O<3ober, which is commonly liie tinte 
of fowirg for die e.irlielf crops, t-iiey 
%vill be fit for tire table in tlie begin- 
ning of March. Thofefown at C!;ri<^- 
mas, if the feafon is iriild, and the 
^ground ia food order, will, if I'ley 
efcape the froft, be fit for eating about 
The end of Mai'di or be</innipg of 
April; and by continuing ilie Cowing 
once in r? fortniglir, trcm the middle 
of Jantiary till the l^epinninj; of April.f 
alw.iys obftTving to few the earliefl' 
•crop in tlie warmeft and htrt fliel- 
tered (itt3?itioTis, and the later ones in 
a moilt foil and open lit-iiation, with- 
ciit which they wiH run up, and grow 
llicky. hefcie they ?ie lit fcr ufe, a re- 
^ul.Tt luccefTion of tliefe roots may lie 
liad throu?^li( lit the feafon. The ten- 
ciereft, and niildert to the tafte, sre 
thofe which have been raifed in deep, 
rich, and iieht mould. 

"When the radiPies are come up, and 
Jiave got five or fix leaves, they mufl 
be thinned wherever they fland too 
clofe; for niherwife they will run up 
in tops, and not increafein their roots. 
Some thin them by h«nd ; hut It is 
inuc!) better to ufe a fmnll hoe, which 
will llJr the grcan'J, def.rcy the weeds, 



and promote the growtli of tlie \"cun|f 
plants. They may be left about three 
inclies afunder, it tliey are intended 
for drawing up fmall; but (;x inches 
will be little eno-jpli, if they aie to 
ftand till they are [irttty large. 

The kitchen gardeners about Lon- 
don, who pay great prices for their 
ground, and therefore are obliged to 
make it produce as many crops as pof- 
fible in the year, fov- carrot-i'eed with 
t'heir early radi!he% in Ordei that if 
the ijdifties are l:illca focn alter their 
coming up, as they fometimes are, 
the carrots may remain ; for the feeds 
of thefe lafl generally lie in the ground 
five or fix weeks before thty grow, 
whiie tiiofe of the radifhes fprout in 
about a fortnight J but when both 
trops fuccec, tiie' radiihts muft be 
pulled up while very .young, or ihey 
will weaken the carrots ; fo that thefe 
Ja(t will tu>t be able to fupport thcm- 
iVJves after die former are gone^ 

It is alfo the confJant pradMce of 
ihefe induOiious and intellieent men, 
•to fow fpinach with their latter cCop 
of rarliflies ; for af er tlie rafliflics are 
tal'en oii\ and the ground has been 
cler.rtd between the plants of fpinach, 
tliefe laff will grow up fo prodigioufly 
as to cover the whole fpace in a tort- 
nigiit's time: and if this fpinach is of 
the bread -I'.-aved kind, it will be 
larger and fairer than it ufually is 
when fown alone; btcaufe molt peo- 
ple are apt to fow it too thick, when 
they do not mix it vtjth any other crop. 

The final] topped, the deep red, tlie 
fcarlet, and the long topped Hiiped 
radifh, are the varieties generally cul- 
tivated in kitchen gardens.' -The 
<'ma!l topped is moA com.Tionly pre- 
•ferred, becaufe it takes iJp the lealt 
room; but a finall fpot of' ground 
will lurnifh, from each fowing, as 
many radifhes of any kind as can be 
fpent in a tar.'ly v\'hile they are good.- 

The Naplt> radifh, which has a very 
white, round, fmall, and fwect root, 
may be propagated in the fame man- 
ner as tie common fort, excejjting 
that it fliould not be fown till the be- 
ginning of March, and the plants 
fhould be allowed a greater dilrance. 
It is not very common in this country, 
and, indeed, its feeds a;e apt to cJeee- 
nerate here. 

The Y.-l>.ite and tlie black Spani/Jy 
rac'ifhes 



RAG 



RAG 



radlfhes will be fit for the table by tlie 
end of Auguft, or the beginning of 
September, if they are fown about the 
middle of July, or a little earlier, and 
\vill continue good till the fro(t fpoils 
them. Thefc fhould be thin.ied to 
a much greater diftance than any other 
fort ; for their roots will grow as big 
as common turnips. If they are drawn 
out of the ground before a hard fro(t 
comes on, and laid up in dry fand, in 
the fame manner as is pradtifed for 
carrots, they will keep good all the 
winter. 

To fave the feeds of radiHies, fome 
of the ftraiteft and bert-coloured roots 
(hould b; planted in rows three feet 
afunder, and at the diftance of two 
feet from each other in the rows, in 
deep and well dug ground. If the 
feafon is dry, they muft be watered 
from time to time till they have taken 
root, after which they require no fur- 
ther care but keeping them clear from 
weeds ; nor need thefe be feared after 
the branching feed-ftalks of the ra- 
diflies have overfpread the ground, as 
they will foon do, in fuch a manner as 
to prevent their farther growth. 

In this tranfplanting of the radishes, 
an allowance fhould always be made 
for bad feafons, becaufe the very fame 
plants will not yield a fourth part of 
the quantity of feeds in dry feafons, 
that they would do in a moift feafon. 

When the feed begins to ripen, it 
fhould be carefully guarded from birds, 
and when it is ripe (which is knov.rn 
by the pods turning brown) it fhould 
be cut, dried in the fun, threflied cut, 
and laid up in a place where mice 
cannot come at it. 

Horfe-RADizH, See HoKsz-Ratii/h, 

RAGS. Woollen rags, and the 
rlppings of the pitch-marks upon 
(heep, are a Angularly good manure. 
The rags fhould be chopped fmall, a- 
bcut an inch or two fquare, and fcat- 
tered on the earth at the fecond plough- 
ing ; for being thereby covered, they 
will begin to rot by feed-time. They 
imbibe the moifture of dews and rain, 
retain it long, and, as Dr. Home ob- 
ferves, thereby keep loofc foils in a 
moid flate. They colt about four- 
pence a bufhel at London, from whence 
many loads are fcnt every year to Dun- 
liable, which is thirty-three miles, 
where .they are laid even on ftiff lands, 

V«L. II. 



juft after the fowing of the corn, al- 
lowing to the acre four facks of fix 
bufhels each. 

RAGWORT, [OrhoKra.] or, as it 
is called in Yorkfhire, Seagilm, is a 
very pernicious weed. 

The Rev. Mr. Camber, of Eaft- 
Newton, has obliged the public with 
the following obfervations on the 
growth and deflru^ion of ragwort, 
or feagrim. 

" This plant," fays he, " has a 
flalk, in its early flite, green; but, as 
it advances in age, inclining to violet, 
or purple, efpecially downwards. Its 
flowers are botii yello.v, and thick- 
fet, and compofed each of a number 
of fmall-pointed leaves. It runs to 
feed in the latter end of fummer. 
The fmell, both of the flaJkand leaves, 
which are jagged, (whence probably 
it obtains one name) and the flower 
itfelf, are offenfive to all animals, I- 
think ; for 1 have obferved that hardly 
any creatures feed upon it, except al- 
moft hungered or ftarved. I have not 
indeed obferved whether or no afles 
rejesfl it. 

" Like mofl other weeds, it thrives 
befl in the befl foils, either natural or 
artificial ; and I took up a plant of it 
in my orchard, about two years ago, 
(with the root) which, when in 
flower, touched my chin, (my height 
is about five feet eight or nine inches) 
and its root, which is round, and thick 
fet with taws, was much larger than 
a new-born child's head : but theufual 
dimenfions are much lefs than thefe. 

" About four years ago, I obferved 
the fpreading of this weed in that 
part of this eftate which was in our 
own hands. I took notice, that nei- 
ther cows nor horfes eat it ; and 
when I fmelled it, I ceafed to won- 
der that they did not. It was obvi- 
ous to remark, tliat a weed fo bulky 
as this, and (o grofs, muft extraft 
much nouri(hment from the earth, 
and that it was advifable to get rid of 
it as faft as pofTible. The moft eafy 
method was mowing. I therefore or- 
dered a fervant to mow thefe weeds in 
the paftures as near to tbe ground as 
he could : and I hoped that the com- 
mon mowing in the meadows would 
be fufScient to deftroy them : but 
I foon found my miftake, for in a 
very few weeks thefe offenfive Aran- 
K k gers 



RAG 



R A & 



j^ers (hot up aa;ain Into a ftdlk and 
Jcaf, aiiJ evtn flower, tlioogli all in 
imicli fnialler (ize than belore, but 
-vitli this ciifagreeable circumllancy, 
that the root was fo far from being in- 
jured with the fcythc, tliat for one 
Italk feveral arofe, and tlie root feemed 
to have gained new vigour froifi the 
wound. 

,".I now applied myfelf fo pluck- 
ing up by the roots thefe odious in- 
nutes, and found new ditficulties ; 
lor while the ground was dry, as it 
ufually is in tlie latter end of fummer, 
I found the ftalks of fuch of t!ie fea- 
Siinis as weie longed, and afforded 
tlie tij'Jueft grafp, either break in 
plucking, and leave the root in the 
ciound entirely, or at bed bring with 
it only a fmall part of the root ; and 
when the wet weather came on, and 
loofened the ground, and mads itpof- 
fible, or even eafy, to bring away the 
whole ball of the root, yet the fcafon 
of feeding was come on alfo, and the 
earlieft ripe feeds had difperfed them- 
f>:lves, and produced an afforance of a 
'arger crop for fucceeding years than 
the mod careful plucking of the prc- 
funt crop could dellroy. 

" Kut if thefe were the difficulties 
v,;hich attended my attempts to era- 
dicate thofefeagrims, which had hap- 
pened not to be mowed, I was much 
more embarrafled by thofe which had 
been ; for here it was impofliSle to get 
any fuch faft hold, a* to pluck them 
up with much, or even any root. 

" I now applied myfelf to enquire 
what ge'ntlenien' or farmers were 
plagued with this weed, and v/hat 
methods they had tried with fuccefs 
to deflroy it. 

" I was told by a gentleman in my 
own neiglibourhood, that Sir C. Cay- 
Jey, bart. of Brompton, near Scarbo- 
rough, had been plagued with this 
weed, and had purfued the mefthod of 
plucking with fuccefs. 

" Animated by this affurance, I 
refolved to purfue this method with 
great attention J and as It feemed to 
he a work which required great care, 
both in the choice of feafon and man- 
rer of plucking, I refolved not to de- 
pute the work to others, but to en- 
deavour to clear a fpot in my cow- 
pafture with my own hands, that, if 
my labour fucceeded, I might eoiploy 



others to follow the fame method un- 
f^er my own eye in the red of tliio 
padure. 

" Accordingly, in the evenlnjjj of 
the fummer, or rather autumn, of 
176a, after fliowers, I applied myfelt 
(o this work : and by the help of a 
pair o( ftrong gloves, and a tight grafp, 
I biought up almod every root, in a 
fpacc of about two hundred yards 
fquare, whole; fo that I had good 
hopes I Ihould fee this fpot clear in 
the fucceeding fummer. It is true, 
I faw leaves of the fpecies of this 
weed, and of a very vivid green too, 
around the plants which I pulled up; 
hut ai I reafonably concluded thefe to 
he fed by the laws which fpread them- 
fclves from the main root, fo I (me- 
thought reafonably) concluded alfo, 
that this main root being dedroyed, 
the fide tawj would die, and confe- 
qucntly thefe young leaves. 

" But how was I difappolnted, 
wlien, in the fummer of 1763, I faw 
this fpot of ground as much over-run 
with feagrims as any part elfe of the 
padure which had been unpulled ! 

'* Converfing, however, with G. 
Watfon, efq; of New Malton, to- 
wards the latter end of fummer, on 
tills fubjedV, I was affured by him, 
that by a repetition of this labour of 
plucking for fome years, he though: 
lie had leffened the number of his fea- 
grims, tliough they were fiill nume- 
rous. Urged by this example, I had 
gone through the whole of my padure, 
which is about xen acres, and keeps 
five cows, at the latter end of lad 
fummer, of 1763, with tlie fame care 
as was ufed to a fmall part of it In 
1762 ; yet am I not elated with mucli 
hope of fuccefs; for a little plot be- 
fore my garden (in which my horfes 
run, and which was managed with 
f^ill more accuracy on account of the 
odious appearance cf the feagrlm* 
from my windows) feems to threaten 
another confiderable crop. 

" As I did not cunfine my enqui- 
ries about the method of dedroying 
this hateful weed to any one rank of 
men, I was told by an honed quaker, 
a farmer In my neighbourhood, that 
he had found turning of fheep in win- 
ter into his cow-padure the only effec- 
tual method of dsdroying this hateful 
v.ecd, ■ 

<• I thonghf 



RAG 

" I tfcocght this method verj* likely 
to fucceed -. for rtieep are fuch clofe 
caters, that 1 have known them de- 
(troy whole beds of the rankcft docks, 
^hich could not be killed by any other 
Cleans. 

" I have not been able to<try this 
experiment confiderablyj for, as I am 
r.iifing quick fences, both in my mea- 
dow and pafture, I keep no (heep. I 
have, however, ocrafionaliy admitted 
fomc of my tenants fheep into the 
fmall plot before my garden this win- 
ter ; and, upon an accurate examina- 
tion this morning, I do not entertain 
any fanguine hopes of great fuccef> 
fiom this method. I find that many 
c( the young leaves of this weed, now 
lovel with the furface of the ground, 
aie untouched by the fheep ; and that 
fuch others as appear bitten by them, 
do not feemin a dying condition. 

" The truth feems to me, that 
fheep, though they may not have the 
fame averfion to this weed as horfes 
and cows, yet are far from being fond 
of it ; and if any great fuccefs is to be 
hoped for from tiieir bite, (which may 
prepare beds for the water, and fo 
dec^y the root) the fheep fhould be 
folded pretty clofe upon it, and obliged 
to eat it near, and at fuch a feafon 
that the winter-rains may have lime 
to work its deftruftion. And fuch a 
method, if carefully purfued, fcems 
to be mof\ probable for the extirpation 
of this pernicious weed. 

" If the method of plucking is fol- 
lowed, T would fubjoin fome cautions: 

" Firft, In order to prevent the 
large plants from feeding, I would ad- 
vife to cut off all the tops, and the 
tops only, when the tlowers begin to 
die, that then good hold of the flalk 
tnay be gotten. 

•' Secondly, I would defer the pluck- 
fng till the rains have moiftened the 
ground fufficiently to bring up the 
whole main root. 

" Thirdly, I recommend ftriking 
the root fo brouglit up againit the 
ground, in order to difperfe the earth 
which adheres to it, by way of manure. 

" Fourthly, I always pile the plants 
thus pulled up and cleanfed from the 
c^rth, that, if the feafon proves favour- 
abJ", they may be burnt, and the 
aflics arifing from them fpread on the 
ground ; or if this cannc: be conve- 



R A G 

nicntly done, (though it Is much the 
better method, and may, with a fuf- 
ficient f.iC, be done when they are 
ever fo green) they may be left to rot 
and manure the foil, 

" The gro/Tntfs, and even Hench, 
of this weed, is a proof of the great 
quantity of fjlrs it contains j and ih 
the fame proportion as any plant ex- 
hauf\s the ground of its falts it repays 
when reduced to manure. There can, 
however, be no quertion, but whilfl 
weeds are left to rot, a great quan- 
tity of the falts, which by burning 
would mingle with the foil, are car- 
ried into the air. 

" I fuppcfe your readers will be 
curious to know in what manner I 
account for the fudden appearance of 
thefe feagrims in vaft abundance, in 
this eltate, where they were hardly 
ever known before. 

" I will give you an account, which 
I dare fay, you will elrsem perfeftly 
fatisfaftory. About eight years ago 
I undertook to improve a piece of 
ground of about fourteen acres, which 
was over- run with thorns of both 
forts, brambles, broom, and furze. 

" When I had got it cleared of all 
this trafh, my next bufinefs was to 
pare the hills off, and pile them, and, 
after a winter's mellowing, to break 
and fpread them with a mixture ot 
lime, and ail other kinds of manure 
which I could colle(5t. As the foil 
was very poor, having been exhaufled 
by the great quantity of traHi it had 
nourifhed for many years, I was not 
yet faiisfied, but refolved to take the 
advantage of the fiill dry fummer, to 
lead out the riches of a pond of about 
thirty yards long, and half as many 
broad, which had been occupied by 
a great number of geefe, 5;c, and never 
thoroughly cleaned during near thirt/ 
years. I got through this work, the' 
at a great expence, being obliged to 
employ a confiderahle number of 
draughts, left the rains fhould make 
the mud too thin, or the heat bake tc 
too much, the mud being for a ccr.- 
fiderahle fpace a yard perpendicular. 

" Ail this mud I laid on my newly 
Improved g'ound, except a few cart- 
loads, which were brought and laid by 
the wall of a kitchen-garden, to be 
mingled with the other foil. 

" I had divided my improved pfonnd, 

K k i referviug 



RAG 



R A M 



referving about four acres for meadow. 
Behold ! the fucceedinj year gave me 
a crop of feagrims both in my new 
nieadow, my new cow-pa(lure, and 
the plot of ground in whicli the mud 
for my garden had been fcattered j 
and more particularly in thofe paits 
where the ground had been broke, ei- 
ther to ftub the thorns, &-c. or to take 
away the hills, while the adjoining 
ground on every fide was free from 
this pernicious weed. 

" As I knew little or nothing of 
this weed, 1 fuffered it to feed before 
1 took any neceflary precautions for 
its deftruftion. The fucceeding year 
prefented me with a much larger crop, 
and I have been ever fince ftruggling 
for its extirpation, and have the mor- 
tification to fee its encroachments on 
adjoining grounds by the feeds which 
winds have carried. 

'* This fadt, and another of the 
fame kind, in a piece of ground which 
I improved fmce, at feme diftance 
from the former, have confirmed me 
in an opinion, viiiich I before thought 
very probable, viz. " That all foils 
are originally impregnated with the 
feeds of almoft all gralTes and weeds, 
(though of fome in greater quantities) 
whicli only want a proper ftirring and 
manure to awaken them to vegeta- 
tion, though at the expence of one 
another, fome being fuffocated by that 
procefs which gives life to the others." 
" I will add another (triking in- 
flance in confirmation of this fenti- 
nient, notorious in this neighbourhood. 
" A confiderable quantity of the 
park at Gilling was over-run with 
brakes and mofj, and that wretched 
grafs which grows in fuch company. 
Lord Fairfax, the owner, finding that 
lie couk) not liave hisvenifon fat as it 
ought to be, deftroyed his park, and 
applied himfelf ferioufly to the im- 
provement of it at a vaft expence. In 
courfe of time by due tillage he brought 
this worft part of it to be not only 
good corn land, but even tolerable, 
though coarfi/h, meadow and pafturej 
yet both of them thick fet with fea- 
giims, a weed never feen there till the 
quantity of lime which his Lordfhip 
put into that poor foil had warmed it 
fufliciently. 

" I have only to add, on this fub- 
isQ, that I am perfuaded feagrim does 



more harm In meadow than pailnre 
land ; for in the latter it only exhaufts 
the ground on which it ftands to no 
good purpofc ; but in the former it 
communicates its difagieeable Aencli 
in the fweat to the good hay, and de- 
ftroys its fweetnefs. I advife, there- 
fore, that hay-makers be ordered to 
throw it with their rake-ftiafts out of 
the fwathe whenever they meet with 
it." Muftum Rujlicum, vol. v. p. 117. 
RAGGED ROBIN. [Lychnii F/of- 
cuculi.] A fpecies of campion common 
in moi{l meadows, and by the fides of 
rivers. 

RAMPION, A fpecies of campa- 
nula or bell-flower. The crimfon ram- 
pion is greatly prized by the curious, 
for the beauty of its rich crimfon 
flowers, which exceed all the flowers 
we have yet feen in the deepnefs of its 
colour ; and thefe commonly when 
their roots are ftrong, produce large 
fpikes of thefe flowers, which conti- 
nue a long time in beauty, and make 
a mort magnificent fhew among other 
flowers. The time of their flowering 
is commonly in July or Augufl; and 
if the autumn proves very favourable, 
they will fometimes produce good 
feeds in England. Thefe plants arc 
natives of Virginia and Carolina, 
where they grow by the fides of rivu- 
lets, and make a mod beautiful ap- 
pearance; from whence the feeds are 
often fent to England. Thefe feeds 
commonly arrive here in the fpring, 
at which time they (hould be fown in 
pots filled with light earth, and but 
juft covered over; for, if the feeds 
are buried deep, they will not grow. 
Thefe pots fhould be placed under a 
frame, to defend them from the cold, 
until the feafon is a little advanced ; 
hut they ihould not be placed on an 
hot-bed, which wiil alfo deltroy the 
feeds. 

When the weather Is warm, towards 
the middle of April, thefe pots (hould 
be placed in the open air, in a fitua- 
tion where they may have the morn- 
ing fun till twelve o'clock, obferving 
to water them conHanily in dry wea- 
ther; and when the plants are come 
up, and are grown pretty flrong, they 
fhould be tranfplanted each into a 
fmall pot filled with frelh light earth, 
and placed in the fame fituation, ob- 
ferving to water ihcm in dry v.eather ; 

and. 



RAN 



RAN 



and, In winter, they (hould be placed 
under an hot -bed frame, where tl ey 
may be ftieltered from fevere frofls ; 
but, in mild weather, they fliould be 
as much expofed to the open air as 
poflible. 

The March foitowing thefe plants 
ftiould be put into larger pots filled 
with the fame frefh earth, and placed, 
as before, to the morning fun ; cb- 
fcrving to water them in dry weather, 
which will caufe them to flower ftrong 
the autumn following. 

Thefe plants are alfo propagated by 
parting of their roots; the belt feafon 
for which is, either foon after they are 
part flower, or in March ; obferving 
to water and manage them as hath 
been diredled for the feedling plants 
both in winter and fummer. 

RAMSONS, Broad -leaved wild 
garlick. 

RANUNCULUS. There are eight 
or ten fpecies of the ranunculus, fome 
growing wild in difl^ercnt places; but 
the moll beautiful is the Perfian, or 
Turkey ranunculus, the varieties of 
which are almoft numbeilefs, but al- 
Biofl all flower in April or May. 

The beds in which the Perfian ra- 
nunculus roots are planted, fhould be 
made with frefh light fandy earth, at 
lealt three feet deep; the beft foil for 
them may be compofed in this man- 
ner, viz. take a quantity of frefli earth 
from a rich upland pafture, about fix 
inches deep, together with the green 
fward : this (hould be laid in heaps to 
rot for twelve months before it is 
mixed, obferving to turn it over very 
often to fweeten it, and break the 
clods ; to this you fliould add a fourth 
part of very rotten neat's dung, and a 
proportionable quantity of fea or drift 
land, according as the earrh is lighter 
or flifFer ; if it be lijht, and inclining 
to a fand, there (hould be no fand 
added ; but if it be an hazel loam, 
one load of fand will be fufficienc 
for eight loads of earth ; but if the 
earth be flrong and heavy, the fand 
fliould be added in a greater propor- 
tion : this (hould be mixed fix or 
eight months before it is ufed, and you 
Ihould often turn it over, in order to 
unite their parts well together, before 
it is put into the beds. 

The depth which this (hould be laid 
In the bodf mul\ be about three feet j this 



fhould be below the furface, In p'V- 
portion to the drynefs or moiHure of 
the place where they are fituated ; 
which, in dry ground, fliould be two 
feet eight inches below the furface, 
and the beds raifed four inches above; 
but in a moifl place they fliould be 
two feet four inches below, and eight 
above the ground ; and, in this cafe, 
it will be very proper to lay fome rub- 
bifh and (lones at the bottom of each 
bed, to drain otf the moillure; and 
if upon this, at the bottom of the beds, 
fome very rotten neat's-dung be laid 
two or three inches thick, the roots 
will reach this in the fpring, and the 
flowers will be fairer. This earth I 
would by no means advife to be 
fkreened very fine ; only turning it 
over each time, you (hould be careful 
to break the cl-ds, and throw out aU 
large flones, which will be fufRcient j 
for if it is made very fine, when the 
great rains in winter come on, it wi;l 
caufe the earth to bind into one folid 
lump, w^iereby the moifture will be 
detained, and the roots, not bein^ able 
to extend their tender fibres, will rot. 
The beds being thus prepared fhould 
lie a fortnight to fettle, before the 
roots are planted, that there may be 
no danger of the earth fettling une- 
qually after they are piant'ed , which 
vk-ould prejudice the roots by having 
hollow places in fome parts of the 
bed, to which the water would run 
and lodge, and fo rot the roots in fuch 
places. Then having levelled the 
earth, laying the furface a little round- 
ing, you (hould mark out the rows by 
a line, at about fix inches dif^ance 
each way, fo that roots may be planted 
every way in ftraight lines; then you 
(hould open the eartli with your fin- 
gers at each crofs, where the roots are 
to be planted, about two inches deep, 
placing the roots exaflly in the mid- 
dle, with their crowns upright ; then 
with the head of a rake, you fhould 
draw the earth upon the furface of the 
bed level, whereby the top of the 
roots will be about an inch covered 
with earth, which will be fufficient at 
firft. This work (hould be done in 
dry weather, becaufe the earth will 
then work better than if it were wet ; 
but the fooner after planting there 
happens to be rain the Letter it wil| 
be for the r«ott, for if it fliould prove 

dry 



RAP 



RAP 



"^r- 



Jry weather long after, and the earfli 
of the beds be very dry, the roots will 
be fubje^t to mould and decay ; there- 
fore, in fucli a cafe, it will be proper 
to give a little water to the beds, if 
there fhould no rain happen in a fort- 
night's time, which is very raie at 
this feafon of the year ; fo that they 
will feldom be in danger of fuffering 
that way. 

When the roots are thus planted, 
there will no more be required until 
towards November, by which time 
they will begin to heave the ground, 
and their buds appear; when you 
ihould lay a little of the fame fre(h 
earth of which the beds were com- 
pofed about half an inch thick ail 
over the beds, which will greatly de- 
fend the crown of the root from the 
frofl ; and when you perceive the buds 
to break through this fecond covering, 
if it fllould prove a very hard froft, it 
will be very proper to arch the beds 
over with hoops, and cover them with 
mats, efpecially in the fpring, when 
the flower buds will begin to appear ; 
♦or if they are expofed to too much 
froft, or blighting winds, at that fea- 
fon, their flowers feldom open fairly, 
and many times their roots are de- 
ftroyed j but this happens more fre- 
quently to the Perfian kinds, which 
are tenderer, than to thofe forts which 
»re pretty hardy ; for whicli reafon 
they are commonly planted in open 
borders, intermixed with other flow- 
ers, though in very hard winters thefe 
are apt to fufFer where care is not 
taken to guard off the froft. 

In tlie beginning of March tlie 
flower ftems will begin to rife, at 
which time you fliould carefully clear 
the beds from weeds, and flir the 
earth vi-ith your fingers between the 
roots, being very careful not to injure 
them ; this will not only make the 
beds appear handfome, but alfo 
ftrengthen their flo%vers. When the 
flowers are part, and the leaves are 
withered, you fhould take up the roots 
and careiully clear them from the 
earth, then fpread them upon a mat 
to dry in a fliady place, after which 
they may be put up in bags or boxes, 
in a dry room until the Oflober fol- 
lowing, which !» the feafon for plant- 
ing them again. 
' kAPE. iRa^a.J Raps or ccleffed. 



ThU Is a produce confined, in a man- 
ner, to a few parts of the kingdom, 
but It might very well be carried to 
others. We (hall (hew the profits to 
the hufbandman in gener.il, and if we 
cnn tempt him to cultivate the plant, 
fhall not leave him deficient in any ar- 
ticle regarding the management. 

There is the lefs reafon to wonder 
that colcfeed, fo profitable in fome 
parts of the kingdom, is fo little raifcd 
in others, for this, that the plant it- 
felf is lefs known than any other a- 
mong the whole number of thofe cul- 
tivated for ufe. To aik what herb it 
is that yields this feed, is, a queftion 
tiiat would puzzle many befide the 
farmer. Even its name is not com- 
monly known. Colefced is the name 
of the feed only, it is alfo called rape- 
feed, but this does not lead to the 
matter : Cole is not the name of any 
plant, and rape fignifies turnip ; we 
fliall explain this matter, and before 
we enter upon the culture fhew the 
farmer what the herb properly is that 
he is to cultivate. 

Colefeed is very well known in Lin- 
colnfhire, and fome other counties; 
and rape oil is as well known which 
is made from it. 

The feed is known at the ftiops, and 
the plant by the farmers who raife it ; 
but nothing more. In fome places 
the feed is fown among the other kinds 
of what are called young falleting; 
but in this cafe, as the firft leaves arc 
only eaten, no more is feen of it. 

All the time that this ignorance re- 
mains about the form of a very ufeful 
plant, it is common, wild on our ditch 
banks, and there needs nothing more 
than to fhew its feed to the Lincofn- 
fhire farmer, for him to fay that is it. 
1 hefe are the inaccuracies and errors 
which fo greatly retard the progiefs of 
improvements in hufbandry. The ar- 
ticles are themfclves unknown to thofe 
who fhould be the authors of the a- 
mendments. 

The price of colefeed, if the farmer 
choofes to fell it in that condition, is 
very confiderable, reckoning the quan- 
tity an acre yields; and if he will be 
at the trouble of drawing the oil, the 
method of doing it is very eafy, and 
his profit vaflly greater. Nor are 
thefe all the advantages he receives 
from the grc.vch cf this plant : it is 

like 



RAP 



R A ? 



like the dyers weed in this, that It 
■will grow on foiis which will not 
yield any thing elfe to advantage j 
and though thefe are of a very diffe- 
rent kind from thofe peculiar to the 
dyers weed, that flcuriftiing on the 
1X10(1 dry, and this belt on marfhy 
;;rounds ; ytt there are enough of 
thefe lalt in many parts of the king- 
-dom to fhew how advantageous it 
muft be to the nation to render the 
plant mere known, and the eultureof 
it among our farmers more univerfal. 

There is no ether name by which 
we can treat of this intelligibly to the 
farmer, than this formed from the 
feed : What herb it is that is thus 
called in the colefced countries, cr 
■what is the plant that yields colefeed, 
we are about to rtiew. 

There aie three kinds of plants, 
each containing feveral fpecies,and dif- 
tinguiflied by different names, but are 
very nearly agreeing in their flowers, 
feed-vcffels, and other general circum- 
Jlances; thefe are, i. The Cabbage 
kind. 2. The Turnip kind. And 3. 
The Navevv kind. The confufjon that 
has been made amongfl thefe has 
been one occafion of the uncertainty 
about the colefced plant. 

The root of tlie turnip kind, and 
the flalk of the cabbage kind, are what 
principally difUnguifh t!iem ; as to 
the navew, it differs very litrle from 
the turnip, and that principally in 
the fmallnefs and length of the root. 

The flowers of thefe are alike, and 
the feeds of them all refembleone an- 
other, and they will all in the fame 
manner yield that oil whicli we call 
rape oil ; but there is one kind that 
yields it in greater quantity thnn the 
others. This is the wild navew, called 
Napus Syiveflris, by autliors, and this 
is the proper coltfeed plant. 

The turnip and cabbage kind we 
have in our gardens in great variety, 
and fome have for curiofity Introduced 
the garden navew, or Napus Sativus, 
but it is inferior to the turnip, and 
therefore but little regarded. The 
authors who figure and defcribe the 
garden navew, figure alfo the wild 
kind, and this is v. hat we have on the 
banks of ditches. We have cbftrved 
that the navew differs little from the 
turnip, except in the fhape and big- 
refs of the root ; and this plant, which 



ot'herwire much refcmbles the turnifi 
kind, yet is properly a navew, becaufo 
it has a very fmall root. 

Any of thefe kinds therefore will 
anfwer under ti)e farmer'? hand's j but 
as the wild navew yields much the 
finer (eed, and much th-- larger quan- 
tity of ir, and that is aifo :h'. richelt 
in oil, (o it is bert to cultivate .'hat 
particular kind. This is oftener to be 
had from Holland than an/ where 
clfe, and we fliall inform the pur- 
chafer how he is to know it by the eye. 

The proper coiefecd plant, or wild 
navevv, is four feet high, and of an 
irregular growth. The root is long, 
flender, and white; it is of a f^veeter 
ta<te thnn the turnip, but wirh fome- 
what more warmth. The lower leaves 
are long, large, deeply divided at the 
edges, and of a dufl;y green. One 
ftalk ufually rifcs in the mi.ilt of thefe,, 
fometimes twoor more. This is rcxund, 
fmooth, o! a pale green colour, and 
divided into many branches towards 
the upper part. The leaves upon this 
fland one by one, not in pairs ; they 
are fmaller and narrower than thofe 
from the root, and are cf a paler co- 
lour. The flowers grow at the topw 
of all the branches, they are fmall, of 
a briglit yellow, and perfe<5lly rtftmble 
thofe of the turnip : After thefe come 
pods which contain the feed. This 
refembles turnip-feed, ^ut that it i« 
larger and fmcttlier. The common 
appearance cf the plant in fummer is 
with long fpikei of pods, and a few 
iiowers at the lop of each. 

This is the appearance of the wild 
navew in our fields and on binks. 
When it is cultivated for colefeed k 
grows fomewhat taller and more 
l)ianched, otherwife there is no dif- 
ference ; and in good ground the root 
will be larger and more tender. There 
is no difference 'between the wild na- 
vew and the garden navew, except 
that the root of the garden kind is yet 
tenderer and thickei' ; but this is prin- 
cipally whiJe it has only the lower 
leave*, for when it is fuffered to run 
to fi-ed, the root grows fticky in the 
garden. Indeed thtre ftems no other 
difference between tlie garden and the 
wild navew, but w^iat is made hy 
culture. 

The flowers and fruftification of 
tKe colefced plant, when nicely exa- 
mined. 



RAP 



RAP 



mined, are thus formed. The flow- 
ers Itand in a Cup comi)ofed of four 
little oval-pointed green leaves, and 
ihis does not remain after the flower 
is faHed, as in the dyers weed, but 
perifties and falls oft" witii it. The 
tiower is compofed of four plain nar- 
row yellow leaves, placed crofs-wife. 
Thele are broadelt at tlie ends, and 
not at all divided ; they are of the 
fame length as the leaves of the cup. 
In the center of this flower rife f;x 
filaments, four of wliich are confide- 
rably longer than the other twoj they 
Iiave fmall pointed buttons growing 
on them. In the center of thefe rifes 
a fmall upright body, which is the ru- 
diment of the feed-vtflel j this has a 
kind of button at its top, in which 
thcie are fmall openings lor receiving 
the fine duil out of the heads of the 
filaments ; for in propagating the feed, 
\s'hen the leaves and cup of the flower 
are fallen, this part enlarges, and at 
length becomes a feed-vefTel of a long- 
jfh depreffed fhape, divided in the in- 
ijde by a membrane, which fhews 
itfelf beyond its extremity, and con- 
taining feveral large, round, bright 
feeds. 

This is the conftruflion of the flower 
and fruit of the colefeed plant, the 
proper name of which is wild navew, 
and which grows naturally wild, not 
only in England, but in Flanders, and 
other parts of Europe, 

1 he feeds of the natural wild plant 
may be gathered and fown ; but tliofe 
from fucli as have been cultivated 
raife the ftouteit plants ; thele there- 
lore the farmer is to choofe, according 
to the following mat Us : — 

When the farmer has procured a 
quantity of good feed, let him pick 
cut the mofl proper piece of ground 
for the crop. This will depend on 
the two great articles, foil and fitu- 
ation 5 as to the firft, the richer the 
Jand the better ; and as to the other, 
all that is required is, that it lie tole- 
rably dry. 'i here is no part of Eng- 
land wh.eie fo much colefeed is raifed 
as in the fens, but the lands are tiift 
laid dry that are intended for this pur- 
pofe : In the fame manner they cul- 
tivate it in Flanders and Holland, on 
ground originally maiftiy; but they 
are at all the neceffary pains and e.x- 
pencc of making them properly dry firll , 



No lands arc more proper for cole- 
feed than fuch as have been fubjeft to 
overflowings, but they muft be fecure 
from that accident while the crop is 
upon them : and muft be properly 
dry, in order to receive it. 

Whether this overflowing have been 
from land floods, great rivers within 
reach of the fea, or the fea itfelf, it 
prepares them equally for the crop of 
colefeed, Thofe where falt-water has 
come, are properer than any others j 
but they require fomewhat more pre- 
paration. 

There are parts of Eflex where the 
hulbandman might ralfe colefeed to a 
very great advantage ; and in many 
places where grounds have been newly 
recovered from the fea by banking, &c. 
colefeed is an excellent crop. 

Every piece of fat rich land Is pro- 
per for it ; and the farmer need not 
fear to beltow it upon this fpecies, 
for it will yield to his full content. 

If he has a piece of ground that is 
too rank for wheat, or the other ufual 
growths, let him fow it with colefeed: 
this will yield an extremely rich in- 
creafe, and the land that would not 
before have done for corn, will, by 
proper management, be perfeflJy vvell 
prepared fur it by this means. 

The right foil for colefeed is mellow 
earth. A foft deep black mould, with 
little other ad-mixture, feeds it better 
than any other, Tlie plants never 
grow fo robuft, and the feed is not 
formed in fuch plenty, or ripened in 
fuch perfeflion on any other. This is 
the reafon that marlhy and fenny lands, 
when propeily fitted for that purpofe, 
anfwer fo well with colefeed : This 
blaek deep mellow earth is the natu- 
ral foil in thefe places, one fcarce fees 
any other on breaking the turf in any 
of them. This is of all others the beft 
foil for coleft-ed ; but we have fhewn 
it is not limited to this only; any deep 
foil that is mellow, and properly fitu- 
ated, will do. 

The foil we have recommended as 
mort proper for colefeed, is one of 
tliofe that does not require any great 
labour in tilling; nor does the cole- 
feed demand any particularly to its 
own management. The black mellow 
earth whereon this crop fliould be 
raifed, cuts eafily, and turns freely 
under the plough; and when it is in 
a proper 



RAP 



RAP 



4 proper degree of drj-nefs, breaks 
Ireely and finely in t!ie working. All 
that is particiilaily neceflary to fit it 
for colefccd, is to make it very fine; 
anJ this, iinlefs the featbn prove q'jjte 
unfavourable, or the hulbandman be 
very unCcilful, is a condition where- 
into it is brought cafily. 

In May the land intLftded for cole- 
feed is commonly failiAved; in June 
it is twy-fallowcd J and in tlie latter 
end of tliat month, or tlie firft r.eek 
in July, thecolefeed is fown. 

After the laft ploopliing, a fine- 
toothed harrow fhould hedrawn over 
the field; after tlii?, if the weather 
he dry, let there be a lij;!it roller car- 
ried over it; then let it be very g°ntly 
.•ind tenderly harfowed again. This 
}a(t harrowing, after the roller has 
crufhed and broke tlve lump'i, ufually 
makes it as even as the flower- border 
in a garden, and this is the proper 
condition wherein it is to receive the 
feed. 

If the weather pnve too wet, let 
<*.e rolling be deferteH ; and afterwards 
Jst it be performed with great caution ; 
for though the roller may do great 
good in this cafe, it may alfo do much 
harm. In fome lands the foil is natu- 
rally fo Icofe, but once harrowing di- 
vides it fufBcIently. 

Colefced is to be ordered much in 
the fame manner as turnips. Wlien 
iit is got to fome fmal! height, hcers 
are to be ftnt into tiic ground, wliofe 
work ferves yery wtU to cut dcvn 
the weeJs; and they may alfo thin 
the plants where they happen to have 
r^fen too t!)ick, as they will al- 
ways do in fome p'laces from this ir- 
regular manner of fov.ing. To thrive 
v.ellinihis way, they fliould be fuf- 
ftred to fland at about ten inches 
dif^ance. 

In the fame manner, when the huf- 
bapdman fliaJl think proper to raife 
this crop by the drill and horfe-hoe- 
Jng method ; they mufl be hoed when 
ihey have got a little (Irengch. In this 
ftfpeft we need not tedioufly repeat 
the particulars, the fame manaj-ement 
iTiould be obferVed as in hoeing of 
turnips, raifed by this hufnandry. 

The weeds in the partitions bef.vetn 
tlie double rows, are to be cut up with 
tlie broad hand'lioe: and tli: plants 

Vol. II. 



Ihouid be at the fame time thinned tili 
they Hand but one every foot and a 
halt, and th'.fe not oppofite in the two 
feries, but one in each row oppofite 
to the middle of the fpaCe between 
two in the other. 

When the pLints arc thus cleared 
out and thinned, let the horfe hoe 
or hoe- plough be fent in as foon as 
any wti-ds appe-r in the intervals. 
This will thoroughly dtflroy litem, 
and well break the ground. 

This is to be repeated as <)ften as 
the weeds rife, only obferving this 
caution, that at firfi the plough tears 
up only the middle of each interval^ 
and afterwards that it come nearer 
the edges. 

When the colefeed is fown, there 
are only two thin/s neceflary, the 
fingling out the plants to a proper dif~ 
tance, and the keeping them clear of 
weeds wl.ile young; for afterwards 
they will need no «aie on that head, 
the plants are fo fttong, and draw fo 
much nourifhm^nt, that nothing can 
live among them. 

Which ever method cf raifing the 
crop be ufed, it i-. to be thus prepared 
for 3 good growth ; and this done,' the 
owner is to conlic'er that it has more 
iifes than one. Though the feed b6 
the principal confideration, it is not 
the only one; and the more regard is 
to be fhewn to another, becaufe it 
comes in order of time before it. 

We. have obferved that this plant is 
of the eatable kind. As it does not 
grow fo much into root as the turnip, 
its leaves are more delicate. Sheep 
are very fond of them, and they afford 
a rich and vvholefome nourifhmenr. 
This, prijperiy managed, is a great 
article. The fhcep are fupplied at a 
time when they extremely vant nou- 
rifhment, and the crop is far frorn 
being injured ; on the contrary, it is 
improved by it. This, therefore, is 
to be confidered as a very efTcntial 
part in the manap;emtnt of a cclefeed 
crop, and we fliall give tl:e praflical 
hufbandman the method of ordering 
it to the beft advantage. 

Colefeed having been fo-rn in the 
beginning of July, fhocts witli fome 
f^rength ; after a few wti-ks keeps it- 
felf up during the droughts of autumn, 
and getting new Arength and fize \n 

L I t.^e 



RAP 



RAP 



the leaves from the rains, which In- 
troduce the winter, become-) 'ii a con- 
dition to rcfilt the llronged iru'^s. It 
Aands well, and on evc.y open day or 
two, grnw's during the depth cf win- 
ter; fo that in January, February, 
and Maich, the ground is well-co- 
vered. 

Tiie leaves which novv rife are of 
no real ufe to the plant in perfeifting 
Its feed, which is to be done the fuc- 
ceeding Aimmer. If they grow very 
rank they rather are injurious, fwal- 
lowing up too mu'^'i cf the nouri/h- 
ment that fhould go to the forming of 
the young (talk, therefore tliey may be 
fpareJ without injury. Here is then 
a great fupply of fuod for fheep, at a 
feafon when grafs is low, and it is 
extremely v.'anted ; and the fheep are 
to be turned in to eat it without any 
damage to the fucceeding crop of feed. 
There are thole who fow colefeed 
in fcinie parts cf Northamp:onfhire for 
this ute alone; and it ar.fwers the in- 
tent very well. They ufe the pooreft 
land for this purpofe, and on that, 
although the plant vrould never grow 
vigorous and ftrong fo as to yield any 
prolitabie quantity of feed, it fhoots 
up vei^ yi'eli in leaves. 

In the proper lands for this growth, 
the leaves at this feafonare rr.uch fir.tr 
iiid Itronger, and they may be eaten 
without damage to the crop. 

Thcie are tliofe who prefer the cole 
plane on thefe poor lands for food 
for Cheep, to the young growth on 
fuch as is richer, and they fay it is 
more wholefome ; they are not with- 
out reafon ; but their experience en 
this head fhculd not have led them to 
difcarc! the ufe of colefeed for feeding 
on rich ground, but to ufe it with 
tiifcretion. 

The difadvantage that attends the 
feeding cf fheep on the rank growth 
of colefeed in rich ground is, that it 
in ikes them fwell. This is the fame 
confequence that happens from feed- 
ing them on clover, but it is eafily re- 
aiicdied. It is only at firft that this 
rich food takes fo iJl an effeft, and 
this may be prevented by proper regu- 
lations. When the fheep are firft 
turned in, let it be towards the mid- 
dle of the day ; and an hour before fun- 
fet let them be driven cut again into 
*> common iiafture, Th? oest Oa^ kc 



tliem be turned In earlier, and driveo 
out later; and fo the third, fourth, 
and fifth ; after this, let them be jufV 
driven out at night for two or th.e« 
days more, and let in again as foon as 
they will in the morning. This will 
prevent the effedl of the colefeed at 
firff , and being now hardened to it by 
a little cuflom, they may be left in 
tlie fields of it altoeether,and willthriva 
upon it excellently, witliout the leaft 
damage. 

U.idcr this article of the efredt of 
colefeed on fheep, it is proper to men- 
tion, that the firft fhoots are not all 
that fervc this purpofe. Thera is ano- 
ther growth of them that is lefs rank, 
and that the iheep love better; and 
which not being liable to affedl them 
with any diforder, is to be truAed to 
them at their difcretion. 

The (hoots of the colefeed after ga- 
thering tliE llalks for feed, are alfo a 
mild, r.vect, and wholefome food we- 
have been naming, Thefe grow very 
Arong when there has been rain, but 
they are never rank, or over-ricb. 
Every one knows the difference there 
is between the cabbage and coleworts j 
full-grown leaves firlt cut lor the pot, 
and the fprouts that grow on th& 
flumps and Aalks after cutting ; the 
difference is jult the faaie between the 
firi\ growth cf large leaves fiom the 
colefeed plant, and the (hoots that 
rife after the cutting down the full- 
grown Aalks for feed. 

Towards the end of June the cole- 
feed plant in whatever way it has been 
raifed, will be fit to cut. The huf- 
bandman mart therefore keep his eye 
upon his field very carefully toward 
that period; for it is of the uimoft 
Importance to Iiim to ftize it when it 
comes. No day of the month, or 
other precife time, can be named for 
the gathering this crop, becaufe the 
differences of foils and feafons pro- 
mote and retard its ripening ; and even 
the variety of management, cr the 
age of the plant, may make ten days 
or a fortnight difference in the ripen- 
ing in two fields of the fame foil in 
the fame year. We have told the huf- 
bandman about what time he is to 
expeftit; and fhall add the figns by 
which he (hail know that it is fit for 
harveft. One caution we muff give 
lilin v^-iiLaL that as the foil and method 



RAP 



RAP 



«f cultore may make a very great al- 
teration in the time of ripening, he 
mull be upsn the v^atch accordingly, 
expcfling it e.irlicr by a fortrisht in 
rich foils anci the moft careful ccn i»&, 
than he ncfd in poor land in "'.l- com- 
mon way. It will be in vain that we 
)ay down tiie figns of its ripening, if 
lie flips the time. 

We have ohferved that the colefeed 
plant has fmall flowers en i'uk. tops of 
the lialki and branches, which when 
•the leaves fall off are fucceedtd by 
jjods. As the flowers that opened 
firlt are thus followed by tlie fted- 
vefTels, other flowers open upon the 
tops, which fhoot up continually 
higher and higher. Thus, when the 
piant begins to fiower, nothing is fecn 
but a little button or tuft of buds at 
the top of the flalk, and of every 
branch, with one or two flowers o- 
pened or opening upon it; but when 
it has been fome time flowering, the 
afpeft differs, for then the branches 
having lengthened from the time of 
their beginning to flower, all that 
part of them which was the top, and 
where fucctfTiveJy the former flowers 
appeared, is covered with feed-vclTcls ; 
thus each branch terminates in a fpike 
cf feed-veiTels, a foot or more in 
length, with a few flowers at its top. 

The quantity of feed is the riches 
of the crop, therefore it would appear 
at fir(\ fight, that the longer the plant 
ftood, fo long as i: continued flower- 
ing, the more advantageous would be 
the growth, but there are limits to 
this increafe, beyond which all is 
wafte. 

The courfe of nature is to ripen 
thefe feeds, and then fhed them upon 
the ground for producing the plant 
again ; therefore when ripe the pods 
open of themfelves, and the feeds are 
lofl. This no art can prevent ; and 
for that reafon the time is to be 
watched when any of them begin to 
open, and that is the exaft period for 
gathering. 

When fome of the pods approach 
towards ripenefs they change colour, 
and the greennefs is only fcen at top j 
when, upon a curfory view, there are 
fome found to grow brownifh a: tlie 
bottom, and thofe in the middle are 
yellowifh or pale, thofe at the top only 
being green, then the time of gather- 



ing is nt hand. It is the IntereA of 
the owner to let them ftand fo long as 
all are fafe, but no longer. He is 
therefore now to look into the field 
once or twice every day, in a more 
Itrift manner. He muft examine the 
bottom pods of the ripell fj^ikcs j fo 
long as thcfe are clofe all is fate; but 
as (oon as fomt of them begin lo open, 
tjie time of gathering the crop is come, 
for after this every houi's (tanding will 
be attended with lofs. 

'i'he b^lt method of cutting cole- 
feed is with a ftrnng fickic, in the 
fame manner as whr-af is reaped ; but 
tliis muf^ be done caretully. There 
is no part of the farmer's occupation 
t!iat requires more expert and honelt 
labourers than this. The flalks are 
pretty thick, and by that time the feed 
is ripened tiuis far, they have loft their 
juicy condition, and are grown h.5rd. 
and flick)-. They are not eafy to be 
cut, and yet that muft be done evenly, 
and with little fhaking. A great deal' 
of care is to be taken that the lickls 
goes eafily through them, and when 
feparated from the root they muft be 
laid gently down in handfuls, that 
they may dry. 

About one-third part of the feed is 
ripe at the time when th'; lowefl pods 
are ready to open ; in the lying tx- 
pofed to the heat of the fun at this 
feafon, more than another third har- 
dens, and becomes good ; fo tliat 
above two-thirds of the whole quan- 
tity of pods yield good feed, and this 
is all that can be expedled ; for if the 
farmer were to ftay for the ripening 
of the other third, while growing, he 
would iofe tlie feed from the lower 
pods, wliich is much more valuable ; 
and the feed is of a fufRcient growth 
to ripen or harden in the fun after the 
plant is cut down. 

When the crop has been once laid 
on the ground it is not to he Itirred 
till dry, for the feeds in the lower pods 
are fo loofe, that they will fhake out 
with the leail motion, and be loft. 
What is required from this expofure 
is, to dry and harden them, and they 
will get this fufTiciently by lying tole- 
rahly thin, without being moved. If 
the weather be very hot, the bufmcfs 
is done the fconer; if otherwifc, foroc- 
what more time is required ; gene- 
rally from ten <iiji to 4 fortnight 
J. I z proves 



K A P 



R A S 



proves futTicIent. The proof that 
they are, dried enough is, when the 
pcds toward the upper psrt of the 
fplkes open eafily, and the feeds in 
tlitm arc liard. 

When the whole is in this condi- 
tion, nothing is required but to get 
it fo tht; barn,, and thrafli Ir. In 
Lincolnfhire, they fave thcmfdves a 
part of tliis) trouble, by tlira(hing it 
in die field; they fpread a large (heet 
iipon a level p^rc of the ground, and 
lay a quantity of the herb on it. A 
little tlifartiing dees to diflcdge the 
feed:, which are already loofe and 
mofl of them in danger of falling out 
of their own accord ; but it is an 
irregular method 5 it le .ves the far- 
mer's produce, after all his toil, very 
rnuch at the mercy cf the winds, anJ 
Cannot be performed fo well as in doors. 
The method we would therefore re- 
commend to the hufbandman, if the 
ground be any thing near home, is 
this : Let a parcel of »arge flitets be 
fpread in the field, and the dried (talks 
carefully taken up in their bundles, and 
laid on them. Eadi Iheet will hold a 
great deal this way ; for though the 
parcels muft be vtiey gently moved to 
the flieet, they may be prefled hard, 
and handled roughly there j for what 
feeds fallout will be faved, 

AVhen the ftieets have as much in 
them as tliRy will hold, the edges and 
corners are to be gathered in and 
faftened, and the feveral parcels are 
to be carjiwd to the barn, and there 
thrartied with a careful but light 
hand, that all the feed may be got cut, 
and as little of it as pofTible bruifsd, 
for it is tender and eadly hurt, efpe- 
cially when fiefh. 

After it is feparated from the refufe 
that was mixed among it in the tluarti- 
ing, ir muft be fpread on a floor 
pretty thin, and turned often till it is 
thoroughly ("ry and hardened ; for 
oti'.erwife, w-hen put up, it will quick- 
ly grow damp and mouldy. 

The ufe of the colefetd is not over 
when t!ie oil has been prefled from it. 
The cakes that remaiij are a large 
quantity, and a» the frelh leaves feed 
fheep, tlivfe, in a proper method of 
givin*^' them, turn to a very f.ood ac- 
count fo" ieeding cf cows. In win- 
ter this is an excellent food for them, 
for keeping them ia heart and Tirength, 



at a time when other good food I5 
fcaice. 

Calves are alfo to be fed with coIe> 
feed cakes very profitably, but that in 
a particular manner. Afier the oil is 
preiTwd cut as clon as the common 
pradicc can obtiiin it, there flill re- 
mains fo much of it in the cikes, that 
when tliey are beat to powder, and 
mixed with hot water, they make it 
white and milky, in the fame manner 
as fweet almond-: beat up with water 
make an emulfion. This is the way 
of giving it to calves, and it proves a 
very rich, wliolefome, and rtrengthen- 
jng food. Calves may be fed with 
th.is from three days old, till [hey are 
6t to eat grafs or hay. 
fTi.'^.'RAPE. Charlock. 
RAil^Bi:P.R.Y. [RubuilJa-Js.] This 
plant grows natu.'-ally in the woods in 
tht northern parts of England, but is 
cultivated in gardens for its fruit, 
whicli fuppiies tl e table at the fcafon 
when they are ripe. There are two 
or three varieties of this, one with a 
red, and the other a v.hite fruir, and 
the third gencially produces two crops 
of fruit annually ; the firft ripens ia 
July, and the fecond in Ottober, but 
thofe of tlie latter feafon have feldom 
much flavour. Thefe are accidental 
vaiieiies, but the fourth fort we be- 
lieve to be a diiliiKft fpecies, for the 
leaves are tiifoliate, larger tlian thofe 
of the common fort, woolly on their 
under fide, and the branches and ftaiks 
have no thorns. This produces but 
few fruit, and thofe are fmail, whicl) 
has occancncd its being neglefted. 

The rafpberry is generally propa- 
gated by fuckers, though we Should 
prefer fuch plants as are raifed by lay- 
en, becaufe they will be better rooted, 
and not fo liable to fend cut fuckers as 
the other, which generally produce 
fuch quantities of fuckers from their 
roots as to tii! the ground in a year or 
two ; and where tliey are not carefully 
taken off or tMnned, will caufe tha 
fruit to be fmall, and in lefs quanti- 
ties, efpecially when the plants are 
pbced near each other; whi\:h is too 
often the cafe, fcr there are few perfons 
who aliOw thefe plants fufricient room. 
In prepajing tliefe plants, their fi- 
b'-es fli'juiu be Ihortencd ; but tiie 
buds, which are pbced a: a fmall dif- 
tancs from the l^em c; the plant, moit 



HAS 



HAT 



uiii be cut off, bccaufe thofe produce 
tlie new iTioots tlie following fummer, 
Th.-:i'" plants ihouM be planced about 
two t:£t afunder in the rows, and four 
or five ftec diftant row from row; 
for if they are planted too clofe, their 
fruit is never fo fair, nor will ripen 
(o kiniily, as when they have room for 
ihe air to paf* between the rows. 
The foil in which tiiey thrive bell, is 
a frtrti Arong loam, for in warm light 
ground they do not produce fo great 
plenty of fruit, for they naturally grow 
in cold land, and in fliide ; therefore 
\.v!isn they are planted in a warm (jtu- 
rion and a light foil, they do not fuc- 
■cevd. 

The feafon for drsflin? of them is in 
October, at which time all the old 
wood that produced fruit the prece- 
ding fummer, fhouid bs C':t Ho-.vn 
below the furface of the ground, 3nd 
the young (hoots of the Ume year muft 
be fhcrtened to aliove two feet in 
iengtli ; then the fpaces between the 
rows fliould be well dug, to encou- 
rage their roots; and if you bury » 
very little rotten dung therein, it will 
make them (hoot vigoroufly the fol- 
lowing (immer, and their fiuit will 
be much fairer. During the fummer 
isafon, they (hould be kept clear from 
weeds, wliich, with the before-men- 
tioned culture, is all the management 
they v;ill require; but it is proper to 
make new plantations once in three or 
four years, becaufe when the plants are 
(ufFcred to remain long, tliey will pro- 
duce few and fmall fruit. 

Tlu ytr^lnlan FUtVcrtn^ RASPBERRY 

i> commonly propagated in the nurfe- 
ries as a (lowering fhrub. The flowers 
oi'thisfortareasl.irgeas fmall rofes,and 
there is a fucceflTion of them for two 
months or more, fo that they make an 
agreeable variety during their conti- 
nuance. This fort frequently pro- 
duces fruit in England, which are. not 
fo large as thofc of the common fort, 
and have little flavour. Thefe ripen 
in September, or the beginning of 
Oftober. 

RAT, the name of a well-known 
animal, very troubltfome to the far- 
mer, fee. 

We (hail here give the two following 
receiprs, as they are faid to be eft'ec- 
rual, for deftroying rats. 

T.hs firlt. has t.he fanilion of ths 



Dublin focicty, who on the iQtb of 
November 17C2, ordered a prc.rtiura 
of five guineas to one Lawrence 
O'Hara, for this difcovery; which is, 
•' one quart of oatnierii, four drops of 
rhodium, one grain of muik, and iw<» 
nuts of nux vomica tineiy rafped." 
This mixture is to be made up in ptl- 
let5, and laid in the holes and places 
which the rats Irequent. 

The other receipt is thus: "Take 
of the feeds of llavcs-acre, or loufc- 
worth, powdered, one fourth part;, 
and of oatmeal thtce parts ; niix tiiem 
Well and make them up into a palle 
with honey. Lay pieces of it in tlse 
holes, and on the plac .s frequenttd hy 
rats or mice, and it will Jciil fucii ver- 
min as eat thereof." 

Tiis firii ftep taken by rat-catchers, 
in order to clear a houfe, &c. cf thofe 
vermin, is to allure them all together 
to one proper place, before they at- 
tempt to deflroy them; for there is 
fuch an in()in£tive CT.ition in thefe 
animals, accompanied with a furpri- 
(ing fjigacity in difcovering any caufe 
of daoger,- that, if any of tliem be 
hurt, or purfued, in an uniifuai man- 
ner, tiie reft take llie alarm, and be- 
come fo (hy and wary, that they elude 
ail the devices and (^latagems cf their 
piirfuers for fome time after. This 
place, where the rats arc to be a/Tem- 
bled, fliould be fome c'ofct, or fmall 
rooni, into witich all the openings but 
one or two may be fecared; and this 
place fhpuld be, as near as may be, 
in the middle of t!ie houfe, or build- 
iiig<;. Jt is tlie pra£t;ce, therefore, to 
attempt to bring them all together to 
fome fuch place, befor3 any attempt 
be made to take them ; and, even then, 
to avoid any violence, hurt, or fright to 
them, before the whole be in the power 
of the operator. 

The means ufed to allure them to 
one place are various : one of thofs 
mod eafiiy and ebicacioufly pradlifed 
is, the trailing lome piece of their 
moft favourite food, wiiich fhouid b^ 
of the kind that has the if ron^eil fo-nr 
fuch as toirted cheefe, or broiled red 
herring, f ro n the iioles or entrances to 
their rccefies in every part of the 
houfe, or contiguous building, whence 
it is intended to allure them. At the 
extremities, and in different parts of 
the ccurfe of this trailul tr.-.cl, frnsJl 
quantities 



RAT 

<fwat»titics of meal, or any otiier kind 
*)l ilicir food, ihould be laid to I^nng 
the greater number inco the tracks, 
and to encourage them to purfuc it 
to the center place, where they are 
intended to be taken; at that place, 
Tvhcre time admita of it, a more plen- 
tiful repaft is laid for them, and the 
trailing repeated for two or three 
nights. 

Cefides this trailing and way-bait- 
ing, fome of the moft exptit of the 
rat-catchers have a fhorter, and per- 
haps more efrtitual method of bring- 
ing tliem together ; which is, the call- 
ing them, by making fuch a kind of 
wliiltling noife as refembles their own 
call 5 and by this means, with the af- 
fiftnnce of the way-baits, they call 
them out of their holes, and lead them 
to the repaft prepared for them at the 
place defigned for taking them. But 
this is much more difficult to be prac- 
tifed than the art of trailing 5 for the 
learning the exaft notes, or cries, of 
any kind of beafts or birds, fo as to 
•kcei've thtPo, is a peculiar talent, not 
calily attained to in other cafes. 

In the prafliftng either of thefe me- 
thods of trailing or calling, great cau- 
tion muft be ufed by the operator, to 
fiipprefs and prtvent the fcent of his 
feet and body from being perceived ; 
■which is done by overpowering that 
t\;cnt by others of a Itronger nature. 
In order to this, the feet are to be co- 
vered with cloths rubbed over with 
afTa-fnetida, or other flrong fmelling 
fubitances ; and even oil of rhodium 
is fomeu'mes ufcd for this purpoie, but 
fparingly, on account of its dearnefs, 
though it has a very alluring, as well 
as difguifmg effeft, as will be ob- 
fcrved below. If '.his caution of a- 
voiding the fcent of the operator's 
feet near the track, and in tiie place 
where the rats are propofed to be col- 
le<5^ed be not properly obfcrved, it 
tviU very mudi obilrud the fuccefs of 
the attempt to take tl^em ; for they 
are very ftiy of coming wheiethc fcent 
of human feet lies very frefh, and in- 
timates to their fagacious indinft, the 
prtfence of human creatures, whom 
they naturally dread. To the above- 
mentioned means of alluring by trail- 
ing, way-baiting, and calling, is added 
another of very material efficacy, 
^hicli is, tiic ufe of cil of iliodium, 



RAT 

which, like the maruna lyriaciim In 
the cafe of cats, has a very extraor- 
dinary fafcinating power on thefc ani- 
mals. This oil is extremely dear, and 
therefore fparingly ufed. It is exhaled 
in a fmall quantity in the place, and 
at the entrance of it, where the rats 
are intended to be taken, particularly 
at the time when tiiey are to be laft 
brought together, in order to their de- 
(truftion } and it is ufed alfo, by 
fmearing it on the furface of fome of 
the Implements ufed in taking then> 
by the method below dcfcribed : and 
the effe£l it has in taking off their cau- 
tion and dread, by the delight they ap- 
pearto have in it, is very extraordinary. 
It is ufual, likewife, for the ope- 
rator to difguife his figure as well 
as fcent ; which is done by putting 
on a fort of gown or cloak, of one 
colour, that hides the natural form, 
and makes him appear like a port, or 
fuch inanimate thing ; which habit 
muft likewife be fcented as above, to 
overpower the fmell of his perfon j 
and befrdes this, he is to avoid al) 
motion, till he has fecured his poini 
of having all the rats in his power. 

When the rats are thus enticed and 
collefted, where time U afforded, and 
the whole in any houfe and out-build- 
ings are intended to be cleared away, 
they are fufiered to regale on what they 
mort like, which is ready prepared for 
them, and then to go away quietly fo? 
two or three nights ; by which means 
thofe, which are not allured the firft 
night, are brought afterwards, eithe? 
by their fellows, or the effefls of the 
trailing, Sec, and will not fail to come 
duly again, if they are not dillurbed 
or molcfled. But many of the rat- 
catchers m«ke fhorter \,vork, and con- 
tent ihemfelves with what can be 
brought together in one night or two j 
but this is never efFedlual, unlefs where 
the building is fmall and entire, and 
tlw rats but few in number. 

The means of taking them, wher* 
they are brought together, are vaiious. 
Some entice them into a very large 
bag, the mouth of which is fufficiently 
capacious to cover nearly the whola 
floor of the place where they are col- 
lefled ; which is done by fmearing 
fome veflel placed in the middle of tb-j 
bag with oil of rhodium, and layir^j 
in the bag bails of food. This bag, 
v.'hicK 



RAT 



RED 



which before lay flat en the ground 
witti the mouth fpread open, h to he 
fuddenly clofcd when the rats are all 
in it. Others drive, or frisjht them, 
by flight noifes or motions, into a bag 
of a long form, the moutti of which, 
after all the rats are come in, is drawn 
«p to the oi)ening of the place by 
which they entered, all other ways Oif 
retreat being fecurcd. Others, again, 
intoxicate or poit'on them, by mixing 
with the repaft prepared for them, the 
coculus Indicus, or the tiux vomica. 
A receipt for this purpofe has ap- 
peared, whicii directed four ounces of 
the coculus Indicus, with twelve 
ounces of oatmeal, and two ounces of 
treacle or honey, made up into a moid 
parte with flrong beer; but if the nux 
vomica be ufed, a much kfs propor- 
tion will ferve than is here given of 
the coculus. Any fimilar composition 
of thefe drugs, with that kind of food 
the rats are mod fond of, and wliicK 
lias a itrong flavour, to hide that of 
the drugs, will equally well anfwer 
the end. If, indeed, the coculus In- 
dicus be well powdered, and infufed 
in the beer for fome time, at leaft half 
the quantity here direfted will ferve 
as well as the quantity before-men- 
tioned. When the rats appear to b* 
thoroughly intoxicated with the cocu- 
lus, or Tick with the nux vomica, they 
(nay be taken with the hand, ar>d put 
into a bag or cage, the door of the 
place being fer(l drawn too, left thofe 
which have ftrength and fenfe remain- 
ing efcape. 

By thefe methods, well conduftvd, 
a very confiderable part of the rats in 
any farm, or other houfe, and the con- 
tiguous buildings, may be taken. 

RATTLE-GRASS. [Rhiranthus.] 
This is a very troublefome weed grow- 
ing among grafs, and fprcading itfeU 
•over the whole ground. 

KATTLESS AKE-Rcot. [Strucka.} 
The root of a fpecies of polygala, 
which grows fpontaneoufly in Virgi- 
nia, and bears the winteis of our o'.vn 
climate. This root i^ ufually about 
the thicknefj of the little finger, vari- 
oufly bent and contorted, and appears 
as if compofed of joints, whence it is 
fuppofcd to refi.-mble the tail of the 
animal whofe name it bears: A kind 
of membranous margin runs on eaclj 
ads, the whole length of the rojt. 



Its taftc is at firft acid, afterwarii 
very hot and pungent. 

This root is not at prefent muck 
known in the fhops. The Senegar» 
Indians are f.^id to prevent the fatal 
cfFedts which follow from the hite of 
the rattle fnake, by giving it inter- 
nally, and applying it externally ta 
ti.e w und. It has of late been 
llrongly reco.Timended in pleurihes, 
peripneumonies, and other inflamma- 
tory diftempers ; in thefe cafes, Le- 
mery, du Hamel, and Juflieu, expe- 
rienced its good fuccefs (fee the French 
memoirs for tlie years 1738, 1739.) 
Its more immediate effefts aie thofe 
of a diuretic, diaphoretic, and cathar- 
tic; fometimes it proves emetic: tlie 
two laft operations may be occafion- 
ally prevenied, by giving the root in 
fmall dofes, along with aromatic fim- 
ple wattrs, as that of cinnamon. The 
ufual dofe of the powder is thirty 
grains or more. 

Some have likewife employed thi» 
root in hydropic cafes, and not with- 
out fuccefs: Bouvart (in the mcmoirij 
above-mentioned, 1744) relates ex- 
amples of its occaficning a plentiiui 
evacuation by rtool, urine, and per- 
fpiration, and by this means removing 
the difeafc*, after the common diure- 
tics and hydragogues had failed s 
Where this medicine operates as a ca- 
thartic, it generally proves fuccefsful : 
if it acts by liquifying the blood and 
juices, without occafioning a due dif- 
charge, it fhould either be ahflained 
from, or afllfted by proper additions. 

RAT-TAILS, Excrefcences which 
creep from the pattern to the middle 
of the rtianks of a horfe, and are (o 
called from the lefemhljnce they be^tr 
to the tail of a rat. Some are moift, 
others dry ; the former may be treated 
with drying ointment and wafhes, the 
latter with meicurial ointment. Jf 
the hardnefs does not fubniit to the 
lafl medicine, it fhould be pared off 
with a knife, and dreficd with turjer.- 
tine, tar, and honey, to which verdi- 
greife or white vittiol may occafion- 
ally be added ; but before the ufe ci 
the knife you miy apj.ly thij oirr- 
ment. 

Take black foap four ounces, quic!^- 
lime two cuncf., vinegar enougii 
to make an ointment. 

E.LD-LANDj a term much ufed by 
hufbandajec 



>3 



.^ 



5 



^^ 



^ 



RED 

f»ufl).it3dmen to exprefc a f.incJy foil of 
a re;)diih hue, in'trfpcrled for tlie rr.oll 
pan witli pieces of fand ftone of tin.' 
foiTic colon.-, or fomewliat dee()fr. 

There arc fcverai varieiicsof this foil, 
one of which is aimoii entirely made up 
of f:ind; another with an admixture 
of clay with the fand, tlic whi.le ma- 
king a loofe loamy earth ; and a third, 
full of frapnitnts, of a poor fandy 
iron ore, and often containing (hhiinjj; 
fp.:ck5 of felenit*. 

REDWEHD, Wild Poppy. 

REfJWOOD. [Cear.i-liui Ar borefccm'] 
Tliis plar.t prows naturally wild in the 
Ameiican iflands ; it rifts with a 
flirubby flalk eighteen or twenty feet 
high, fending otit feveial horizontal 
brapclies, which are parniflied with 
oval veined leaves; the flowers come 
out at the wings of the leaves, with 
very fhort foot-ftalks; they are of a 
white herbaceous colour, and are fuc- 
ceedtd by dry capfules, fhaped like 
thofe of the firft fort, 

Tl'.is plani requires to be pl.^ced in 
a v^-arm flcve, otherwife it will not 
thrive in England ; it is propagated by 
feeds, which mu(t be fown upon a 
liot-bed in the fpring; and when the 
plants are fit to remove, they fhould 
be each planted into a feparate fmall 
pot, filled with light fandy earthy and 
plurged into a hot-bed of tanners 
^bark, c'lferving to fliarie them till they 
liave taken root : then tliey muft be 
treated in the fame manner as other 
tender exotic plants. In the autumn 
they mult be placed in the bark-llove, 
ant] durinj tlie v.inter muit be wa- 
tered with .;;reat caution, for too much 
r.:oillurc ar that feafoa will dertroy 
them. 

RtD-WORM, the name of an in- 
k€t very deltruif-ivs to young corn. 
• " I have often (fays Mr. Baker, In 
his report to the Dublin'Society) heard 
of the havcck which red-worms make 
in young whtat, bailey, and oatsj 
and in fome few writers upon huf- 
bandry have read of ihem ; but never 
faw tl'em till May 1764 ; when, to 
iny :^reat mortification, in a few d;ys, 
tlity deliroyed, al r.oli torr.lJy, nine 
acr:s of my vv).e:>t, for I did not reap 
nbrve half a bairel per acre. This 
misic! tune induced me to propcfe to 
the conf;deration c{ the Dublin So- 
€kiy, whttlier the cf^tr of a premium 



RED 

mitjht Hot probably produce a difccr- 
very of fome efFeftual method for 
deftroying fo injuiious an infe^, to 
the infinite advantage of the public : 
and t!.e fociety were pleaftd to ofTtr 
a premium accordingly. 

" 1 now have the honour to lay be- 
fo!e them, what has occurred to mo 
upon that fui'jcdV. 

" The mo;t ingenious M. de Cha- 
teauviciix fpeaks of an inf-ft, vi'hich 
is certainly the f^me kind, if it be not 
the very infevt which 1 have now under 
confideration. This gentleman, after 
faying, " our wheat, in the month of 
May 1755, furtained a lofs, which 
even flut cultivated according to the 
New Ilufljandry, did not efcape, de- 
fcrihes the worm thus : We found in 
it many little white worms, which af- 
terwards became of a chefnut colour. 
Th»y poll themfclves betwetn the 
b!ad?s and eat the flems. They arc 
ufually found between the firfl joints 
of the roots ; every flalk which tiiey 
attacked giew no moie, but became 
yellow, and withered. The fame 
misfortune happened to us in the year 
1732. The infe^li appeared aliout 
the middle of May, and made fuch 
havock, that tlie crops were almoft 
deftioyed." 

" It perhaps might be expeQed, 
that this great raan fhould have made 
the very enquiry which we are now 
upon, as the lofs appears to have been 
very great in Geneva, at liie two pe- 
riods which he mentions; but when 
we confider, how much the high office 
which he held in the city and republic 
of Geneva, mnll have engaged his 
attention, it is rather allonifhing that 
he could oblige the world io much as 
he hath done by his repeated experi- 
ments in hufbandry, and his juciciouj 
obfervations upon them: It is therf- 
fore lefs to he wondered at, that this 
circumf^anCe efcaped him. 

" The jngeni'jus Mr. Benjamin. 
Stillingfieet alfo, in the fecotvd edition 
of his mifcelhneous trails, in a note, 
p. 175-6, fpeaks of an infeifl, wliick 
is probably the fame as that we are 
feeking to deflroy. His words :Sre, 

f Thus in Suffolk, r.nd in feme 
parts of Norfolk, tlie farmers find it 
their intercft to encourage the treed 6i 
rooks, as the only means to l:tt iheir 
grounds frcm the S'ub, from '.viiich 



RED 



RED 



?"he tree or blind beetle comes, and 
^(vlilcl) in its grub rtatc d;;ftrojrs the 
roots of corn and grafs to fuch a de- 
gree, that I myfelf have feen a piece 
of pallu re-land, where you might turn 
\ip the turf with your feet. 

" Mr. Matthews, a very ohfervinj 
and excellent farmer of Wargrave in 
Berkshire, told me, that the rooks one 
•year, whilrt his men were hoeing a 
turnip field, fat down in part of it, 
M/hcre they were not at work, and tlist 
the crop was very fine in that parr, 
whereas in the other part there wtre 
v.o turnips that year. 

" We fee, tliat M. deChateauvieux 
defcribes this worm as being firft 
white, and afterwards becoming of a 
chefniit colour, I have carefully fought 
them at different periods during tlie 
pafl year, but always found them of 
the fame chefnut colour, never varying 
in any particular, except that of fizc, 
which I find to be the cafe at all fca- 
fons in which I have feen them. 

" The infeft which Mr. Stillinc;- 
fleet fpeaks of, he calls a grub, which, 
he fays, deflroys corn and grafs : This 
induces me to believe that it is the 
fame inre<ft (though the report which 
lie relates from Mr. Matthews feems 
to contrarii£l it) becaufe I have ob- 
ferved, that the red or chefnut worm 
never appears voluntarily upon the 
furface ; but whei) the earth is turned 
up, either with plough cr fpade, the 
rooks and crows aTeTeTy bold in their 
approach to pick them up; a circum- 
ftance which I own has in fome degree 
abated my enmity to thefe birds; I 
tlierefore never dertroy nor frigliten 
them off my land whilfH am plough- 
ing it; but when I fow, when the corn 
rifc<!, and when it is ripe, I deitroy cr 
banifh them as well as I can, becaufe 
the mifchief which they do at thofe 
times is intolerable. 

" A member of the Dublin Society 
informed me laft fummer, that fome 
of his turnips were deflroyed by the 
worm ; I had fome few which de- 
cayed in their leaves, and became of a 
lemon colour, preceding the putrefac- 
tion which followed and dertroyed the 
turnips : I examined their roots, but 
could not difcover any infe£l which 
hid injured them, and therefore I 
,cannot pronounce that it is the red- 
vvorm which dellroysd this gentle- 
Voj-.n. 



man's turnips ; but I /hall be vrry 
wateliful with refpcfl to this circuni- 
Aance upon evin-y opportunity thiit 
may prefcm itfclf. 

" I have obfwved my lucerne to 
decay in its tops foon after it has been 
up, and upon examining the roots, I 
have found the red-wor.T» which haH 
cut them off. 

" This inre(!> feeros to be every 
where in Ireland caHedtlie red-worm ; 
by fome of the tnyjliPi writers who 
have fpoken of an infed^ which de- 
flroys corn in the manner already 
mentioned, which I think is undoubt- 
edly the fame, it is called a grub; by 
others the large maggot. an3 t!Te"rook 
worm, becaufe the rooks eat it ; but 
as none of the writers have given any 
other defcription of it, than the name 
by which they refpec^ivdy call it, { 
fliall endeavour to defcribe it. 

'< Red-worms are about half an 
Inch long, and about one tenth of an 
inch in diameter; they are jointed in 
their Ikins, and are of a very firm 
texture; iliey have many fhort legs, 
two fmall black fpecks, which appear 
to be tlieireyes, and two fmall prints 
fpringing from their heads, with which 
I believe they cut the corn, and which, 
in that work, I apprehend, aO like 
forceps : and all I have feen of this 
fpecies are of a bright chefnut colour. 
For tiiis reafon, I fhould cc-nceive it 
would be more defcripiiveto call therri 
the chefnut worms. 

" When they are expofed to tl.e air, 
by turning up tiie earth wliich is ^i\- 
fellcd with them, they will very foon 
cover themfelves again in the foil, 
which they are very capable of doing, 
by the flrength which their make gives 
tliem, although they appear to !■>« a 
fluggifli inre6>, and have not the ad- 
vantaijc of a fliminefs upon their Ikina 
which the common la.-ge creeping 
worm has, which enables that inof- 
fenfive worm to penetrate the earth, 
and get under timber and flones with 
eafe. 

" The red-worm immediately en- 
deavouring to cover itfelf from the air, 
is cer-tainly from natural inflin£V, a« 
it will foon die_ when expofed to the 
air, as will appear by the experiment 
Numb. lo, hereafter-mentioned. 

" Thefe worms deflroy wheat, bar. 

ley, oats, and lucerne, whilft in an 

AJ m Jnfani 



RED 



RED 



Infant ftate, in the months of March, 
April, and May. Late-fown barley 
and o^ts they will deAroy as late as 
June. I have not yet experienced thac 
they will dertroy any other crops. 

" The mifchief done by thenrt is in 
dry weather. Rain fufficient to pene- 
trate the ground, makes them dciill 
from dcftioying the corn ; and, I fup- 
pofe, every thing tlfe which tiicy at 
any time injure. 

" They cut wlieat off juft above 
the crow£» of the roots; barley and 
oats in the fame place, and alfo higher 
wp, upon any part of the l\em, which 
is below the furface of the eaitii. 

" Thefe worms feem to abound 
more in ground which is lightly tilled, 
than in fuch as hath been wejj tilled ; 
but, in lay ground, they feem to be 
mere numerous than any wliere elfe ; 
and the fields upon my farm, in which 
I have found them, are wetter than 
other fields where they are not ; whe- 
ther that circumflance contributes to 
their increafe, I cannot fay, but the 
following expeiiments prove that they 
will live longer in water than they can 
when expofed to the open air. 

Experiments on Red-ivcnns. 
*' Numb. 1. 1 put ten red-worms 
into a wine glafs with common fait 
in it. They were all dead In twenty- 
four hours. 
** Numb. 2. Into a glafs with brine 
in it I put ten red-worms. They 
were all dead in fix hours. 
•' Numb. 3. Into a glafs witli lime 
in ir, which had been flaked for a 
long time, and expofed to the wea- 
ther, I put tlie like number. They 
were all dead in forty-four hours. 
*' Numb. 4. Into a glafs with ^the 
above lime, and fome water in it, 
I put the like number. They vi-ere 
dead in twenty hours. 
*' Numb. 5. Into a glafs with lime 
newly flaked, and when cold, I put 
the like number. They were dead 
in fourteen hours. 
" Nun;b. 6. Into lime-water, made 
with cold water, I put the like num- 
ber. They were dead in ten hours. 
" Numb. 7. Into a glafs with foot 
in it, I put the like number. They 
were dead in four hours. 
*' Numb. 8. Into foot and water I 
put the like number. They were 
dead in four houfs. 



•' TTumb. 9. Into fair water I put the 
like number. They were dead in 
fifty-two hours. 
" Numb. 10. Into a glafs without 
any thing in it, I put the like num- 
ber. They weiedead in thirty-two 
hours. 

" By thefe experiments we fee all 
the article! ufed will kill this infe£l in 
a fliort time, particularly the fnlt and 
foot. I thought it necefifary to con- 
fider different articles, the better to 
fuit different parts of the kingdom. 

" Whtre lime can be conveniently 
had, and that it is ufed as a manure, 
I am apt to believe from the experi- 
ments, that no injury can be fuflained 
from thefe worms, but I am afraid a 
fir.all quantity will net efTcflually dc- 
flroy them; befides, I (hould fear, if 
it were not put on btfore the fowing 
of the corn, that it might finge the — 
blades of the corn ; fcr, from the ex- 
periments, it appears, that lime newly 
flaked, is more fuddenly deftruflive to 
them than old lime, and therefore it 
is to be preferred. 

" Where lime is ufed for no other 
purpofe than to deflroy this worm, I 
fhould conceive that about eight bar- 
rels regularly fown by hand on an acre 
of giound might be fufficient ; it mult 
be firfl flaked and cold before a man 
can pofTiMy cafl upon the ground with 
his hand, lime being a very ftrong 
cauflic ; and even when it is cold,[tlie 
man fhould have a thick glove upon _ 
his hand. 

*' Where fait (hall be ufed to deftroy 
this worm, it muft always be fown 
upon the ground before the intended 
crop; for, although corn will vegetate 
and receive benelit from fait as 2 ma- 
nure when it is ufed antecedent to the 
fowing the corn, yet, if it be added 
after the corn is growing, it wiil cer- 
tainly deffroy it; and therefore, it 
fhculd never be ufed iox this purpoie, 
but before the corn is fown, or at leaJt 
before it vegetates. 

" I conceive that where fait is uft J 
for this purpofe only, about four hun- 
dred and a half to an acre will anfwer 
this purpofe, which is a trifle more 
than one ource to every fquare yard, 

'• We fee by the experiment, that 

foot kills this worm as foon as fait ; — 

and, as in mofl places it is to be had 

at a mucb ief^ price than falt^ I think 

the.--? 



RED 

thfre can be no doubt about preferring 
of it; befides which, it may be fafcly 
ufed after the corn is up. 

'• I hid fome parcels of barley under 
experiments, which thefe worms began 
to detlroy ; and in ordtr to convey the 
foot as foon as poffiblc to tlie roots of 
the plants, I mixed a little of it in 
v/ater, and poured it on the plants 
with a garden watering-pot ; the con- 
fequcnce was, that 1 did not lofe one 
plant ai'terwaids. 

" It will hardly be imagined, that I 
mean that the fame me'hod is to be 
purfued upon a whole farm : No ; the 
method I would recommend to the 
pradice of the farmer is tliis, to fpread 
or calt by hand, as he fows his corn, 
about fix or eight barrels of foot on 
an acre, and let him be careful to 
• choofe a calm day for the work, other- 
wife, the wind will carry away great 
part of it, and as what remains can- 
not be regularly difpofed, let him be 
careful to do it early enouijh in the 
fpring, that the rain may wafh the 
foot and convey it to the roots of the 
plants before the worm begins the 
mifchief j if he does this, I am per- 
fuaded his crop will be prefcrved. 

" We fee by the experiments, that 
this worm will lite longer in warer by 
twenty hours than when expofed to 
the open air; but at length, i, e. in 
fifty-two hours, they died in the water ; 
perhaps this miglit be from the effecl 
of drowning, but if fo, I might have 
cxpefled they would have been totally 
deftrcyed in my two fields in the win- 
ter of 1763 and 1764, by the immo- 
derate rains which fell at that feafon 
for a long continuance, by which the 
land was often flooded. But they fur- 
vived that winter, as appeared by the 
great lofs I afterwards furtained by 
ilieir deftroying my wheat ; and there- 
fore, whether water be an enemy to 
tiiem or not, it ftems not eafy to de- 
termine: but if thofe wiiich died in 
the glafs of water were really drowned, 
yet, i think we may conclude, that 
water is necelT.iry to ilicir exiftencc in 
the earth, and proWably aids them in 
getting their food from it ; and what 
feems to confirm this notion is, tliat 
when the land is wet, they do not 
touch the con), but as foon as ever 
the land is dry, ti.ey begin their mif- 
chicf. However, this fpeculaiion I 



REE 

muft fuhmit to the confideration of 
perlons more capable of difcuffing it 
than 1 am. 

" We fee by the experiment, Numb. 
10, that they cannot live in the operi 
air ; which fecms to prove, that, 
where they abound in land, the of- 
tencr it is ploughed, particularly in 
the f-.immer, when they cannot pene- 
trate the ground fo eafily as when it is 
moift, they muft be, by fuch plough- 
ing, greatly diminifhed ; befides which, 
tlie irequent ploughing gives the crows 
more opportunities of pickinv; them 
up, in vvhicl), as I before faid, they 
are very watchful. 

" Frequent ploughing has been re- 
commended by fome writers, as the 
only means of deftroying this worm j 
and they have recommended the 
plough's being ftuck with nails, ur- 
ging, that by tliofe nails the worms 
are cut tn pieces ; others have rectim- 
mended walnut leaves being foaked in 
water, to fprinkle the land; and iteep- 
ing feed-corn in various liquors, as 
ii.tallible remedies : But fuch methods 
as thefe are founded upon miftaken 
principles ; tliey only mlfltrad the far- 
mer, and muft difappoint him. 

*' Worlidee recommends a .'Irong 
lye made of fixed falts, but that would 
be impratlicable, Mortimer recom- 
mends fea-water for fuch lanl^s as aie 
near the fea-coaft, which I believe 
would anfwer very v/ell. He fj^c htr 
ufed foot once with fuccefs, but t!isc 
it did not fuccced with him afterwaic . 
1 am perfuaded he did not ufe the fi.f.c 
early enough to have it w.ifhed into 
the ground by rain, or perhaps he 
ufed too fmall a ijuantity. 

" 1 would not be thought to arro- 
gate any merit to myftU on account 
of what I have offered on this fubjtiSt, 
fince it appears, that other peifons 
have ufed the articles v^hich I liave re- 
comnjended againlt this common e- 
neri)y ; but many perfoiis have been 
difappoinred in their expe(f\3tions fiom 
thefe remedies, whir.li mull have arifen 
from their either having ufed too fmall 
a quantity, or not having obfervcrl 
the necefl^ary precautions; if thufe 
which I liave recommended Hiall be 
put in pradtice, znd found to anfwer, 
I fli<ill tlilnk rnyfclf amply rewarded." 
REED. [Arunde.l The fpecies ate, 
I. The common Maifti Reed. 2. The 
manured 



R I N 



R O S 



and placed into pans of water, wliJch 
ftiould be plunged into a hot- bed ; and 
ab the vvattr walics, (o it murt, (rom 
tiinc to I'lie, be icnewtd tgain, li» 
Jul> tliefc jjlants nnay be fet abroad in 
a warm fituation, Hill prelVrving the 
water in the pans, othtrwife they wiil 
not thrive ; and towards the latter end 
of Augu^i tliey will produce iIk r 
gra'n, which will rijien tolerably wiii, 
provided the autumn proves favour- 
ably. 

KICK, A pile of corn, hay, flraw, 
ice. regularly heaped up in the open 
air, and Hieltcrecl from wet. 

Rl DDKR, or RIDDLE. A ficve to 
clenn corn. 

RIDGE, the rifing ground left be- 
tween the furrows in plouy,Mny . ,'CU. . 

Rinccs r» a norje's mourn, are v Tin- 
kles or rifings of fiefh in the root of 
the mouth, running; acrofs from one 
iicie of the jaw ra the other, with fur- 
rows between them, 

RING-BONE, A hard fwelling on 
tiie lower part of the paflern of a 
horfe, that generally reaches half round 
the fore-part. It has its name from 
the refemblance to a ring. 

It oiten arifes from ftrains, &c. and 
wlien behind, from putting young 
horf^s too early upon their haunches j 
for in i.iat altitude a hoifc throws his 
whole weight as much, if not more, 
upon his pallerns, than on his hocks. 
. When it appears diltindtly round the 
padern, and does not run downwards 
toward the coronet, fo as to effect the 
cofiin-joint, it is eailly cured ; but if 
it takes its origin from lome (train or 
dcfed in the joint orijinaily, or if a 
callolity is found under tlie round liga- 
ment that cijvers that juint, the cure 
is generally duiiious, and foinetimes 
iriij^raiticable ; as it is apt to luin to 
a quittor, and in the end to form an 
ulcer upon tl.e hoof. 

The ring-bones tiiat appear on colts 
.•^.rsd young horfes will often infenfibly 
wear cti of the.mfeives, without the 
litip of sny application ; but when 
tiie fubiiance ren-<ains, there needs no 
other remedy beiides blifieiing, unlefs 
■when by long continuance it is grown 
to an ob.linate hardnefs, and then it 
may require both blillering and firing. 

To fire a ring-bone fuccefsfully. let 
the operation be performed with a 
tliiniier inruument than the common 



one, and let the lines or razes be made 
not above a quarter of an inch dif- 
tant, crofTrng them obliquely, fome- 
what like a chain ; apply a mild blif- 
tcr over all, and when q;iite dried up, 
the rupture plainer; and then turn 
the horfe to grafs for fome time. 

KllM'LING of FUx, The operation 
of taking off the feed Irom the fiax by 
drawing it through a ripple, or large 
comb. See Flax. 

ROCKET. [Eruca.] This was 
formerly much cultivated in gardens 
for medicinal ufe, and for fallads, but 
is at prefent Itfs common. In ap- 
pearance it refembles muftard, but is 
eafily diftinguilhable by the fmooth- 
ncfs of its leaves, and its difagreeable 
fmell. 1 he feeds have a pungent tafte, 
of the muftard kind, but weaker j 
they have long been celebrated as a- 
phrodifiacs, and may, probably, havfc 
in fomc cafes a title to this virtue, in 
comnion with other acrid plants. 

Guiaen Roc KT.T, Dame's violet. 

ROCK-ROSE. -S^fCisTus. 

ROD. A meafure in length con- 
taining fixteen feet and a half. In 
land meafure, fixteen feet and a half 
(quare. 

GoldenV-oo. 5^f Got. i en Rod. 

ROLLER, A hrge pi-ce of wood 
turning on its axis, and drawn over 
the furface of the ground to break the 
fmall clods, ^d render it fpncoth and 
«ven. J^ *7?V/^/7 S o^-/*"? " i^/*'^>t/^^\ 

ROOD, A quantity of land equal 
to forty fquare poles or perches, ihaC 
is, a quarter of an acre. 

ROOP. Hoarfcnefs. 

ROOT, The lower part of a plant, 
by which it adheres to the earth, and 
hy which it draws its nourifliment, 
and tranfmits die Juices to tl^ other ^ 
parts. /K?<,//^/^/,. J^ ^/if^l'^OZA 

ROSACEOUS, An epithet applied 
to fuch flowers as are compofed of fe- 
veral petals or leaves, diipofed in a 
fort of circular form, like tliofe of the 
rofe ; of this kind are the flowers of 
the piony, ranunculus, &c. 

ROSIL, orJJo^A, Land neither light 
nor heavy, being a medium between 
fand and clay. 

ROSE-TREE. [Hofa.'] Of this plant 
are reckoned fourteen different fjjecies, 
the varieties of which are ftill more 
numerous. 

1. The dog rofe, or hip tree. «. 
The 



R O S 



R O S 



The white rofc, and its rarietles. 3. 
The red rofe, and its varieties. 4, The 
hundred. leaved rofe, and its varieties, 
which include the Mofs, and Frovence. 
5. Cinnamon rofe. 6. '1 he Aipinc rofc, 
or virgin rofe, without prickles. 7. 
Carolina, or Virginia rofc. S.Apple- 
bearing rofe. 9. Burnet-leaved rofe. 
10. Scotch rofe. ii.Mulkrcfe. iz. 
£verereen mullc rofe. 13. The Da- 
mafk rofe. 14. The fweet-hriar. 

AH thtfe are of the (hrub kind, and 
all the fourteen kinds deciduous and 
hardy. 

The propagation of all the forts 
is by fuckers, layers, budding, and 
fome forts by feeds ; but fuckers are 
the mod common and expeditious me- 
thod for propagating irieit of the 
ipecies. 

By fuckers. Moft of the rofes fend 
up many fuckers annuaiiy trom the 
roo:, attaining from one or two to 
three or four feet in heiet.t, or m6re, 
in one fummer, and by ihc.e the ftirubj 
may be expeditiourty propagated in 
great plenty; they may be taken up 
in autumn, winter, or early in fpring, 
with fome fibres to thtir bottom ; ard 
the flrongelt may be planted out fi- 
nally, and the weakeil in nuifery lines 
lor a year or two, or longer j they 
will readily grow, and will mofl of 
them product: fiowcrs the following 
fummtr. 

When thefe fluub> have grown into 
large bunches, with many fuckers 
grown up to fterrs from the roof, the 
whole may be taken up and flipped, 
ot divided into fo many feparate plants, 
and planted out, as above. 

Obferve, that as the mofs rofe, mulk 
rofe, apple-bearing rofe, and fome o- 
t'lers, furnifti fuckers but fparingly, fo 
in default therfof mull have recourfe 
to layers, or budding ; particularly 
for the Mofs Provence. 

By Layers. All the forts of thefe 
plants will grosv by layers oJ theyoung 
/hoots; and is an erTcdtual method of 
propagation, ior fuch forts partictilarly 
asfparingly turrirti iuckers.as tlie Mofs 
Provence, &c. anJ to obtian pltnty of 
ihoots for layirg, a quantity of the 
plants (hcald be planted for flools ; 
xvliich beinj headed down low, they 
will throw out plenty of fhoots near 
tlie ground in fummer, for layi' g in 
futumn or ■winter following, by fia or 



twift-laying, they will be rooted by 
next autumn, and fit for tranfplanta- 
tion in nurfery rows; though fome- 
times the Mofs Rofe, tic, require two 
jxars befoie they are toleraHly wc-II 
rooted ; but of thefe forts you may 
alfo try layers of the young tender 
fhoots of the year, layed in lummer, 
any time in Jure, they will pro!. ably 
root a little (he fame (eaCun. l-jow- 
tvtr, the layers of all forts, after be- 
ing properly rooted, (hould he taken 
up in autumn, and planted in the nur- 
fery, to have a cr.e or two year's 
growth, or to remain till wanted. 

By Budding. Ihis is fcimetimes 
pratiifed in propagating fome ci:oice 
forts that feldom fend up fuckers, 
fuch as the Mofs Piovence, &:c. 
alfo, when intended to have two, 
tliree, or more different forts cf rofes 
upon the fame tree, for curiofuy ; 
working upon the Frankfort, or any 
other ftrong (hooting rofe-ftocks raifed 
from fuckers. 

Ey Seeds, This is fometimes prac- 
tifed to try to obtain new varieties; 
alfo fometimes for raifmg fome parti- 
cular permanent fpecies, fuch as tlia 
Canine Role, Burnet -leaved Rofe, 
Scotch Rofe, Apple-bearing-rcfe, fin- 
gle Sweet-Briar, and fuch others as 
continue the fam- by feediings; fow- 
ing them generally in autumn foon 
af:er they are ripe, and they will 
fometimes rife the following fprine, 
as if not fowed till the fpring feaf..n, 
moft cf the forts are apt to remain till 
the fecond year l-efore they rife freely ; 
fow them however in any bed of light 
earth, eitlier in Iliallow d'lllls, or all 
over the furface, covering them hilf 
an inch deep; and when the ft^edlir.^s 
arc a year old, trantplant them in 
nurfery rows. 

Obferve, however, that the double 
kind?, and ether particular varieties 
ef the fpecies in general, cannot be 
continued the fame with certainty by 
lce:'s, fo muft a' A'ays be propagated 
by fuckers or hyers, fire. 

But remark, tlis common finele 
Sweet Biiar, wlien required in any 
conftdeiaMe quantity (hould genersliy 
be raifed from feed, fiwing it in diillt 
half an incli deep, either to remain, 
or for tranfplanfaticn ; though when 
defigned to form a fort of ^ledge of 
this plant '.o produce a cropof Ihoots 



R O S 



R S 



to cut for the fupply of markets rfu- 
ring tlie fommcr, it is eligible to fow 
the feed at once in a drill where the 
plants are to ftand. 

Hoffman ftrongly recommcndt the 
flovvtrs of the Damafk Rofe as of fin- 
j;ular efficacy for raifinR the ftrength, 
chearing and recruiting the fpirits, 
and albying pain ; which they per- 
form without raifing any heat in the 
conllitution, rather abating it vrhen 
inordinate. Damafk rofes, befides 
their cordial aromatic virtue, which 
refides in their volatile parts, have 
a mildly purgative one, which re- 
mains entire in the decoftion after 
the diftillation •• This, with a proper 
quantity of fugar, forms an agreeable 
laxative fyrtip, which has long kept 
its place in the fhops. The other of- 
ficinal preparations of this flower are 
of folutive honey, and the diftilled 
water, which laft is an ingredient in 
the noufk julep, the confe(flion of ker- 
nes, and faponaceous lotion, and is 
nfed alfo in making the fimple oint- 
ment called pomatum. 

RosE-BAY. Seft 0r,7.ANI)ER. 

Dwarf Rost-BAY. [^Rhododendron.'^ 
There are five fpecies of this plant, 
two of which are evergreens, all flow- 
ering in June. They are propagated 
fcy fowing the feeds in autumn. 

Rose Campion. [Agnfteinma.'] 
The fmgle rofe campion has been long 
in the gardens, where fometimes it 
becomes a troublefome weed. The 
double fort is now placed In its room, 
but is only cultivated by parting the 
roots, 

ClAita Rose. [Hi&ifcus Ch'menfn.'] 
This grows naturally in the Eaft In- 
dies, from whence it has been carried 
to the Weft-India iflands, and ob- 
tained the name of Martinico rofe. 
The flowers of this plant at the firft 
opening are white, then change to a 
blu(>iing red, and at their decay turn 
purple ; it is propagated by feeds, and 
niuf^ be treated tenderly. 

Gcldcr Rose. See Gelder Rose. 

Ko^z of Jcrkho. [Anafatica.'] This 
plant grows naturally in the fands near 
«he borders of the Red Sea, and in 
n7any parts of Syria. It is a low an- 
nual plant, dividing into many irre- 
gular woody branches near the root j 
at each joint is placed a fingle, oblong, 
hcary ieaf^ and at the lan:^ places conae 



cut fmall fingla flowers of a whitirti 
green colour, compofed of foup fmall 
leaves, placed in form of a crofs, like 
the other plants of this clafs. Thcfe 
are fucceeded by fhort wrinkled pods, 
having four fmall horns; ihefe oper» 
into two cells, in each of which is 
lodged a fingle brown feed. 

It is propagated by feeds fown the 
beginning of March on a moderate 
hot-bed. 

South-Sea Rose. Oleander. 

Rose-wort. [Rhodtola.] There 
are two forts, one growing in Wales, 
Yorkfhire, and Weflmoreland ; and 
another with fmaller roots found on 
the Alps. They are preferved in gar- 
dens for the fake of variety, and are 
propagated by parting their roots a- 
bout the beginning of September. 

Rosewood. [^Rhod'iuTr.l The wri- 
ters on botany, and the materia me- 
dioa, are much divided about the lig- 
num rhodium, not only with regard 
to the plant which affords it, but like- 
wife in their accounts of the drug /t- 
felf, and have defcribed under this 
name fimples manifeftly different. 
This confufion feems to have arifen 
from an opinion, that the rhodium and 
afpalathus are the fame; whence dif- 
ferent woods brought into Europe for 
the unknown afpalathus were fold a- 
gain by the name of rhodium. 

The lignum rhodium of the fhopa 
5s ufually in long crooked pieces full 
of knots, which when cut appear of 
a yellow colour like box, with a red- 
difhcafl; the largeft, fnrootheft, moft 
compadV, and the deepefl coloured 
pieces, fliould be chofen ; and ihe 
fmall, thin, or pale ones, rejefted. 
The taf^c of this wood is lightly bit- 
terifh. and fomewhat pungent ; ita 
fmell very fragrant, refembling that of 
rofes ; long kept, it feems to lofe its 
fmell; but on cutting, or rubbing one- 
piece againft another, it fmells as well 
as at firft. Diitilled with water, it 
yields an odoriferous efTential oil, ir» 
very fmall quantity. Rhodium is at 
prefent in efteem only upon account of 
its oil, which is employed as an high 
and agreeable perfume in fcenting po- 
matums, and the like. But if we 
may reafon from analogy, this odori- 
ferous fimple might be advantageoufly 
applied to nobler purpofes : a tinc- 
ture of it in rectified fpirit of wine, 
which 



R O S 



ROT 



idi contains in a fmall volume the 
virtue of a confidcTabIc deal of t!ie 
v.-ood, bids fair to prove a fcrviceaale 
cordial, not infdior perhaps to any 
thin^ of this kind. 

ROUGHNESS p/ r*- Ctat. When 
a iiorfc grows rough in a liable in 
fpite of the ufual care, and hi-> heels 
fwtii, the following mixture is to be 
given him with all his food: 

Take a pound of flower of brim- 
flonc, half a pound of tuvmciick, and 
a quarter of a pound of crude anii- 
niony in powder. Sift ihtfc together, 
i'y svhich nneans tliey will be thorough- 
ly inixeH, and rtre.v a little of it over 
and among hi": viftuals. 

ROSExMARV. [R.f>f:.::nnas.] The 
name of an odoriferous plant very 
common in almoft every garden. 

Rofcmary m3y Kt raiftd from feeds ; 
but it is more commonly and moreeafi- 
iy projiagatifd by planting flips or cut- 
tings of it in a fpot of lightfrefli earth, in 
thefpringoflheyearjuft before its buds 
begin to open. \Vhcnthere plants have 
idkirn root (till which they muft be wa- 
teied gently from time to time, and 
(haded if the fun be too powerful) they 
(hould be tranfplanted into tlie places 
VI here they are to remain. Tliis Ihould 
bedoneeaiJy in Stptember, or the lat- 
ter end of March ; but in whatever fea- 
fon they are tranfplanted, it fhould not 
be during a cold drying eafterly wind, 
becaufe this would foon fhrivel up their 
leaves and kill them. If a few warm 
fhowers fall foon after they are fct, 
they will foon take root, and after that 
they will require no farther care than 
keeping them free from weeds. The 
diftanccs between tlie plants fhould 
be full fufiicient to allow for their ut- 
molt growth, fo that they may not 
touch one another. The growth willbe 
moft luxuriant, efpecially in the fum- 
mer, if they are fi;t in a rich mould : 
hut then they wlil be moll fuhjedl to 
be injured by frclh ; nor will their 
odour be near fo <lrongly aromatic, as 
when raifed on a poor gravelly foil. 

Rofemary is a native of Spain, Italy, 
and the fcuthern parts cf France, where 
it grows in great abundance in dry gra- 
velly foils. It has a fragrant fmell, and 
a warm pungent biitcti/h tafte ; the 
leaves and tender tops are ftrongeft j 
next to thefe the cup ilower; theflow- 
trs themfclvts at^ conliderably the 

Voj. U. 



wcikcH, but mofl pleafant. Aqaeous 
liquors <.,\tra£l great fhare of its virtues 
by infufion, and elevate them in dif- 
tillation J along with the water arifes a 
confider.Uile quantity o\ efTeniial oil, of 
an agreeable ftroiig penetrating fmell, 
Purefpirit cxtraQs in great perfeflion 
the whole aromatic flavour of the rofe- 
mary, and elevates very littieof it in dif- 
tilbiion ; Itence the refmous mtfs, left 
upon abftratling the fp'rir, proves aa 
elegant aroma'.ic, very rich in the pecu- 
liar qualities of tlie plant. 

ROT. A difeafe incident to fheep, . 
arifmg frequently from wet feafons, 
and »iio moift pailure. 

" But the rot in fheep," fays an in- 
genious and praif^ical writer, " does 
not alv.'ays proceed either from moif- 
ture alone, or the nature of the foil 
alone ; for all moift grounds do not 
caufe the rot in flieep, and there are 
fome lands which rot Iheep in wet 
years only. 

" The rot, in faiS, arifes from a 
certain putrefaflicn, Ijoth in the air, 
and in the grafs or herbs that ufuall/ 
grow in fuch moift years; thefe, to- 
gether vvitli their moift food, corrupt 
their livers, and bring on tl;e difeafe. 

" It is indeed very ditticuit to cure 
this difotder, unlefs it is attempted 
before the liver is too much wafted : 
where there is a convenience of doirg 
it, the beft remedy is an immediate 
removal to falt-marihes; but this not 
being in every farmer's power, I fhall 
endeavour, from my own experience, 
to fupply the deficiency. 

" In fuch cafes as thefe, a preven- 
tion of the evil is to be recommended to 
t!ie prafticecf every ration ,.1 farmer. 

" Some grounds naturally yield a 
foft, fpungy grafs, which is, more 
tlian any ot!ier, fubjeft to breed the 
rot in fheep ; I would therefore advife, 
that other cattle be fed in thefu 
grounds, and the (heep kept in the 
drieft, haideft, and healthicft paftures. 

" I have known land that has kept 
ftieep in health for many fncceflivc 
years, yet atterwarc'SjV lun the months 
cl May and June have proved wet, 
a frim and frothy grafs has fuddenly 
fprung up, which, togetlier with the 
bad air that muft of courfe foilovv, 
has caufed a rot in the fheep that 
were then on it ; the evil was obferved 
in time, the flieep were lemovsJ to j 

N n firy 



ROT 



ROT 



dry and almoA barren heatli, and in 
the fucccetiing winter they were fod- 
dered with good, diy, fweet hay, and 
a great lofs was preventtd. 

" 'J'his unwholeiome graf» is mcft 
apt to grow in cold land, and in the 
Ainimer-time; and it is a general opi- 
nion, and well founded on experience, 
that if tl:e fummer does not rot (hccp, 
the winter will not, the power ot the 
vvinttr ilone not being (trong enough 
to begin a rot. 

" A very fenfibls writer, whofe 
book I have juft turned to, 1 m^an 
Mr. Lifle, ("ays, that broom is very 
good for the rot ; and indeed I have 
often experienced it, for in a farm I 
occupied fome years ago there were 
feveral broom- fields, and 1 have often 
obferved that fuch of my llieep as were 
part of the year fed in them were 
never infedeJ with tlic rot, whillt 
others in my polTedion had it to a i;reat 
degree. 1 profited however by expe- 
rience, for I took care thenceforward 
that all my flieep fhould, by turns, 
enjoy the advantages to be derived 
from their feeding on the young flioots 
of the broom. 

" As to what Mr. Lifle fays, on the 
authority of Mr. Ray, that the m arfh- 
, trefoil will cure the rot, I cannot, 
from experience, corroborate it : I 
have heard its efficacy in this dlforder 
often mentioned, but never yet heard 
any particular fa<fl related fo circum- 
ftantially as to induce me to depend on 
its eftefts. 

" That fait is good, T agree with 
the above gentleman, and Mr. Boyle j 
and this gives me an opportunity of 
communicating a receipt which J 
know to be a good one. 

" When you perceive by the colour 
of your fheep's eyes, that the rot lias 
taken them, drive your flock into a 
barn, a covered fold, or fome fuch 
convenient place ; around this place 
let there be wooden troughs, like man- 
gers, in which you fhould feed your 
iTieep with good, dry, clean oats, for 
forty-eight hours; then have ready 
fome bay fait finely powdered and fear- 
ced, of which you are to fprinkle a 
little among the oats, Increafing the 
quantity till It dii'gufls the fhecp, and 
you perceive they fall ofi tlieir appe- 
:ires ; afterwards, fot the two fojlow- 
jng days, give them again ckan oats 5 



and tlien mix your fait with them a« 
before, continuing this procefs till 
their eyes have recovered their natural 
colour, when ynu will find them per- 
feflly cured; and 10 be convinced, it 
will only b? neceffary to kill one or 
two out of the flock. 

" To this I /hall add a receipt for 
thi rot in fheep, which was commu- 
nicated to me by a friend, a man of 
credit and veracity, who fays he has 
often tried It witli fuccefs. 

•' .Steep fome regulus of anti- 
mony in ale, addirij thereto 
fome grains of paradife, and a 
little fugar to fweeter. it. Of 
this infufion fomewhat left 
than a gill is to be given to e- 
very one of your affedled flieep ; 
they are to have two or three 
dofes, according as thay are 
more or lefj afTedled by thedif- 
temper, allowing two d^ys in- 
rcrmifTion between each dofc." 
" This is laid, as 1 have already 
obferved, to be a cure almofl certain. 
" I juli now take notice, that when 
rain falls in the months of May and - 
June it is apt to caufe the rot in fheep ; 
it wiil be neceffary to add, that fold- 
ing them in the above months in- 
creafes the diforder; for after having 
been deprived of their liberty during 
the whole nig!-.r, they bite the noxious 
grafs the more greedily in the morn- 
ing, having lefs ceremony in their 
choice of herbs than if they were not 
folded. This is a matter of fome con- 
feq.nencc, therefore worthy of being 
attended to. 

" One thing more I mufl, on the 
authority of Mr. Lifle, communicate 
to your readers, viz. an obfirvation of 
a Leiceflerfhire farmer, that fheep, 
when firfl touched with the rot. will 
thrive mightily in fatting for ten 
weeks, but if they are not difpofed of 
when they are come up to a pitch, they 
will, in feven or eight days time, falf 
away to nothing but fkin and bone. 
The fame farmer obferved, that he 
had often had them die in the height 
of their pitch, M half an hour's time, 
with twenty-feven pounds of tallow 
in their bellies," Mufeum Rujikutn, 
vol. i. pa5e434. 

To this account we fhall add a re- 
ceipt communicated to Mr. Mrlk by 
a eentleman of Lincolnshire, 

«< S<cep 



RUE 

'' Steep a handful of rue in a pail 
of water all nighr, and at 
morning put in as much lalt as 
will make it bear an t<,^. Give 
each (heep half a pint of (his 
liquor, and rcpea: it thrice, e- 
very oilier morning. 
" A farmer who kept four hundred 
Jheep tried tliis receipt in ti.e laft ge- 
neral ret (about fourteen years ago) 
and did not iofe any, though his neigh- 
bours lort aln-.ci't a!l theiis. For the 
fake of tt.e ej^perlment, he fet apart 
?ibout twenty, and did not give them 
tt-is drink. Many of tUcfe were 
•-•ten."' 

ROUP. Tiie name of a filthy dif- 
-•.fc in poultry, confiltinsr cf a bailor 
j\veiringupcn the rump, and is known 
by the ilarjng cr turning back of the 
featlisrs. 

Tlir: roup, if r.ct fcon remedied, 
will corrupt the whole body of the 
fowl; to prevent wlych, the featl-.ers 
fliould be plucked away, the fwelling 
laid open, and tlie matter prelled out ; 
after whicii. the part is to be wafhtd 
with briiw, or fait and water. 

ROWEL. A kind of iiiue made in 
borfes for the cure of various difor- 
ders, 35 inward llrains, haid fweil- 
ingi. &-:. 

The operation is perforqied in tlie 
fol!o\vin;j manner : 

A little flit being made through the 
(kin, about a hand-breadt!i below the 
par: aggrieved, big enough to put a 
/"wan's quiil in. the fkin is railed from 
the (\t(h, the end of the quiil put in, 
and the ikin blcwed from thefJelh up- 
wards, and all over thelhoulder; then 
the hole being ftopped with the f.nger, 
the part blown is beat with a hazle- 
Aick, and the wind fpread with the 
hand ail over, and then let go; this 
done, a fkain of horfe-hair, or red 
farfenet, half the tiiicknefs of tlie ik- 
tle finger, is put in a rowcliiog needle, 
feven or eight inches long, and the 
needle is put into the hole, and drawn 
tlirough again, fix or feven incliei 
higher; then ihe needle is drawn out, 
and the two ends of the rowel tied 
together, anointing it every day, as 
well as before the putting it in, with 
fweet butter, and hog's greafe, and 
ilrawing it backwards and forwards in 
'the flvin, to make the putrid matter 
.discharge itfelf more plentifully. 

J? ov«r«*iT - tvffifbr 
^Z^fj. Jcc Tore, 



RUE 

RUE. \Ruia.] Thii is a fmall 
(hrubby phnt, met with in gardens, 
where it flowers in June, and holds 
iti green leaves all the winter: wc 
frequently find in the markets a nar- 
row-leaved fort, which is cultivated 
by fome in preference to the other, on 
account of its leaves appearing varie- 
gated during the winter, with white 
ftfeaks. 

Rue has a ftrong ungrateful fmell, 
and a bitterirti, penetrating tade; the 
leaves, when in fuU vigour, are ex- 
tremely acrid, infomuch as to inflame 
and blificr the (kin, if much handled. 
With regard to their medicinal vii- 
tues, they are powerfully ftimulating, 
attenuating, and'dettygent ; and hence, 
in cold phlegmatic habits, they quick- 
en the circulatioji, dilTclve tenacious 
juices, open obftruGions of the ex- 
cretory f.lands, and promote the f.uid 
fecretions. The writers on the mate- 
ria meriica ia gtntral haye entertained 
a-very high opinion of the virtues of 
this plant. Boerhaave is full of its 
praifes, particularly of tlie eflential 
oil, and the diftilled v.ater cohobated, 
or re-dillilled fe-.-eral times from frefh 
parcels of the herb : After fomewhat 
extravagantly commending other wa- 
ters prepared in this manner, he add?, 
with regard to that of rue, that the 
greateft commendations he can beftow 
upon it fall Ihort of its merit. " What 
medicine {fays he) can be more efiica- 
cious for promoting fvveat and perfpi- 
ration, fcr the cure of the byaeric 
pafTion, and of epilefies, and for ex- 
pelling poifon ?" Whatever fervice 
rue may be of in the two laft cafes, it 
undoubtedly has its ufe in the others ; 
the cohobated water, however, is not 
the moll etTicacious preparation of it. 
An extract made by reftified fpirit 
contains. In a fmall compafs, the 
wh.ole virtues of the rue; this men- 
ftruum taking up by infufion all the 
pungency and flavour of the plant, 
and elevating nothing in diftillation. 
With water, its peculiar flavour and 
warmth arifc ; the bitternefs, and a 
conljderable fhare of the pungency 
remaining behind. 

Digi Rue. There are feveral fpe- 
cles of this plant cultivated in gardens 
for variety, all propagated by fcedj, 
or by planting flips cr cuttings, 

Dc^'jRuE, Figwort. 

2s n 3 C.a.*i 



R U S 



RYE 



Cflj/"j Rv E. See Goat's Rue, 

Mcjdtiv R V E . See M f A n o w R u r . 

If'a/lRvr.. Sec White Saiden 
Hair, 

Syrian RuE. [Pfgjnum.] This plant 
is a native of Syria and Spiin, and the 
Italics decay eveiy aiuiniin, but tlie 
roots arc perennial. It i« propagatrd 
hy fce.i^ fown tiie beginning of A)>ril, 
itfjuires a warm (ituation, and dry foil, 

RUl'TURE-WORT. [J-h-rm^ria.] 
This is a lew herb growing wild in 
fandy and gravelly grounds. It is a 
very mild reflringent, and may, in 
■"• ' • fome degree, he ferviceable in difor- 
ders proceeding from a weak flaccid 
ftaie of tlie vifcera : The virtue wiiich 
it has been molt celebrated for, it has 
little title to, that of curing hernias. 

RUSH. [Jiirct/s.'] Rufhes giow on 
moift, ftrong, uncultivated lands in 
moll parts of England, and confume 
the herbage where they are fuffered to 
remain. The bt(l m'.thod of dellroy- 
ing thefe ruflies is, to fork them up 
clean by the roots in July, and after 
having let them lie a fortnight or three 
weeks to dry, lay tiiem in heaps and 
liurn them gently, and theafhes which 
thtfe afl^ord will be toler.ible manure 
for the Isnd ; but in order to prevent 
their growing again, and to make the 
pafliMe good, the land fhould be 
drained, otherwife there will be no 
destroying tliefe rurtus entirely ; but 
alter it is well drained, if the roots are 
annually drawn up, and the ground 
kept duly roiled, they may be rcbdued. 
Lime \i a good manure for rulhy land, 
as likewife wcod-aihes from a lime- 
kiln, ^t^^ Cint'fi^'^' 

Fi'civerinj^ Rush, [Btttomw.li T'lere 
are two varieties of this pi int, one 
with a rofe-coloured flower, and the 
other with a white flower; but thcfe 
are only accidental variations, there- 
fore not to be enumerated as diflindl 
fpecies. 

The rofc- coloured Tort is pretty com- 
mon in itanding warers in many parts 
of England ; the oth?r is a vnriety of 
this, though lefs common with us 
near London. 1 hefe plants may be 
propagated in bogey places, or by 
planting them in cijtenv.,whrc'i fhould 
he kept filled with w.->ter, th?.r fhould 
have about a foot tl-.icknefs "f earth 
in ttie bottom, into which the roots 
fliould be planted, cr the feed fown as 



foon as they are ripe ; thefe, thooglt 
common plants, yet produce vciy 
pretty flowers, and are worth piopa • 
gating for variety's fake, efpecially if 
in any pjirt of tlie grirdcn there fhouKl 
be conveniency for an artificial bog, 
or where there are ponds of (landiit? 
v.-ater, as is many time^ the cafe, and 
perfons are at a lofs what to plant in 
fuch placcb that may appear beautiful. 
Sivea-Ccenied Rv TH , I'Ja/icus O'cra- 
>a',] This is a dry (mooth (talk, 
brought to Ub along with the leaves, 
and fometimes the lowers, from Tur- 
key end Arabia, tied up in bundles a- 
bo'jt a foot long. The ilalk, in fhape 
and colour, fomewhat refenibles a bar- 
ky-ftraw ; it is full of a fungous pith, 
like thofc of our common ruflies ; the 
leaves are like tliofe of wheat, and 
furround tlie flalk with feveral coats, 
as in tiie reed ; the flowers are of a 
carnation colour, flriped with a lighter 
purple. The whole plant, when in 
perfeftion. has a hot bitterifli, not un- 
pleafant, aromatic tafle j and a very 
fragrant fmeil; by long keeping, it 
lofes greatly of its aromatic flavour. 
Didilled with water, it yields a confi- 
derable quantity of elTential oil. It 
was formerly often ufed as an aroma- 
tic, and in obftruflions of the vifcera, 
&-C, but at prefent is fcarce otherwife 
employed than as an ingredient in 
mithridate and theriaca, 
RUSTi»; corn. Mildew. 
RYE, [Seca/f.'] Rye has been gene- 
rally thought the ne.xt beft bread-corn 
to wheat, and accordingly was for- 
merly very much uled for that pur- 
pofe, and is fo Hill in fome places ; 
fometimes alone, but tSicn it has a pe- 
culiar fweetnefs, w hicli is generally dif- 
agreeable to thofe who are not ufed to 
it, and fubjefts many to choiicks and 
lookr.effzi, and the bread made of it 
is black .-md heavy. 

But a fmall quantity of it was for- 
merly, and flill is in feveral places, 
mixed with wheat in the making 
of bread, on account of its keepins; 
the bread moilt, and then is attended 
with no ill confcquences, but is rather 
thou!:hi to render the wheat moie ten- 
der, Vrefli, and agreeable to the ralte. 
And it was the more cultivated on 
account of its being the produft of 
barren, gravelly, fandy land, which 
was then thought capable of produ- 
cing 



RYE 



R Y E 



cing nothlnj elfc, or very little worth 
the farmer's ca:e. 

The common or winter rye requires 

, a fummer's fallow, and more exot-nce 

and trouble in the management of ir, 

than it is found to anfwer well; finte 

the great improvements made of thofc 

dry I'andy (oil* proper tor it, by the 

advantage!) made of fuch fort rf foils, 

by the fowin^ o f turn ips, and feveral 

- » artificial graifes, and the prtar profit 

*^~ made by them; and from the fcvetal 

f/.e fpecies of corn, they give tlie farmer 

an opportunity of railing much more;id- 

" vantageoui crops than rye; this mult, 

of courfe, link it in the hiifl)andman's 

efteem, and make it in general to be 

much lefs regarded. 

There are two forts of r\e. 

Firfl, Tiie common or winter rye. 

Second, The leircrcr fpring rye. 

The firfl fort is wliat is ufua)ly pro- 
pagated amoni^rt us, and generally on 
fuch dry barren land as is above-men- 
tioned, where itettercornwiil not jjruw. 

The fecond fort, or fmall rye, is to 
be fown in the fpiing, about the fa.ne 
time when cats are. I: is apt to run 
into flraw if it prove a wet feafon, 
end thii fort is generally lighter I'lan 
the otiter ; however, il may be very 
conveniently ufed where wheat or 
other autumn crops have milcanied. 

Two bufhels are commonly allowed 
for feed to an acre, and four loads ge- 
nerally reckoned a middling crop; and 
it ufually carries equal price with bar- 
ley, and about one liali'tiiepriceof wheat 

In feveral places they fow rye tOr^e- 
ther with wheat on the fame ground, 
I ^ and then it is called Mai] en, that is, 
Mifcellane, and will then bsar a pi ice 
in proportion to t!ie quantity of wheat 
which is mixed with it. 

The bell judges think this fort of 
Iiufbandry to be a very ill one, fince 
as tlie rye is ripe before the wheat, and 
muft ftand till they are cut together, 
the confequence muft neceli'arily be, 
that the rye will fhed a good deal of 
its grain ; and w!:at is more, the grains 
wlien fo mixed fcldom rrake a bread 
that thofe peifons can well bear, who 
Jiave been ufcd to wheat. But the rye 
producing a fpirir, it is now faid to be 
mucli ufed for tliat purpofe, and' fo 
far may fave the wheat; though we 
doubt fuch a i;fe of it will prove of no 
advantage to cur country. 



Ac : 



./".. 



Rye rs a quick grower, and for that 
reafon the common fmt, as well ai 
the other, romeiinics i^ lowed in fpiing, -— 
when wheat milcaiues, and has an- 
fwered txpeflation ; and the fmaller 
rys (as before-mentioned; is very pro- 
per for t!iis purpofe, as it is ufually 
ripe at the common times of harvett. 
The common for: is fcmetimes fowed 
fo late, in cider to be pJouel.cd in to .<k_ 
fcitilize the ground for a better fjjccies 
of ijrain. 

Rut there Is another mo-e beneiitiil 
profpeft of fowing ic in autumn, 
which is, in order to provide food 
for e-.vt's and la.nbs in tlie fpri.ng, 
when tuinips and colefttd are gor^e, 
or have failed, and hetoie any other 
forts of graifes are grown to fupport 
tlitm; and it may be fowed for this 
purpofe either on Und prepared parti- 
cularly for this end, or on the wheac 
land after the corn is carried off, or on 
other Hubbies when ploughed up, or «'///////, <9?/ 
where turnips have laiitd, and will 
probably anlwer expettation which- 
ever method of management is takca 
with it for this purpofe. 

It Is certainly ilie be/t proof of a 
mnn's being a good farmer, when he 
is known to provide proper and fufli- 
cicnt foc'd for his cattle and fiictp for 
the wliole year in general, and alio 
has a further particular view for a fe- 
cond provifion for his e\i.es and lambs, 
in cafe any of the former intended 
fort-. iho'.:ld iTiifcarry. 

All this he may certainly generally 
do, if he will but carefully confidcr 
the feveral refpeflive times. The com- 
mon natural, and the feveral artificial 
graffiiS, or turnips, Arc. will continue 
at thtljtter end of the year; and aifo 
when he may expedt any of tliem to 
come in to his allilfance in tliefyring; 
and then think, of, and provide fucii 
other fopports for tiiem in tiie time. 
None of tliem aie to be had in the u- 
fua! courfe of things, by fowing either 
turnips, rye, or colefccd, by tlie help 
cf ens or other of wl.ich (with God's 
bicfling) he need nof much fear but 
he may Iv.ve a plentiful provifion lor 
his ftotk all the year round. 

it is for want of this knowledge 
and care ro provide greens and grafTcs 
for their fheep in t!ie winter and the 
fpring, that in many places in the 
north they are obliged to prevent their 
cwes 



S A i-' 

«wcs from having Iambs, till tliey 
liave natural grau tn tlie ground to 
help them to inilk to fupport them, 
which is often not till tJ.e end of A- 
piil, and fometimes not till the be- 
ginning ct" May ; and then they arc 
obliged to eat their beft mowing 
grounds fometimes to the twentieth of 
May, before they can turn thtir flicep 
to the commons, and fave their grounds 
for hay. If a dry time then fuccteds, 
thefc grounds ate burnt up, and tlieir 
expefled produft of hay from their 
beft land, wholly, or in a great mea- 
fure, deftroyedj to the exceeding dif- 
advantage ot' t'.ie farmers, and fome- 
times to their ruin. 

And why may not rye be fowed for 
thepuri)ofes above-mentioned amon^ft 
turnips, and anfwer the farmer s ex- 
pefla'.ion, efpeclally as the ground on 
which turnips are commonly fowed, is 
generally better prepared, and ufjally 
of a better nature, and in much bet- 
ter heart than the land commonly 
allotted for the grOwtli of rye ; efpe- 
clally where turnips are fowed after 
the drill manner. 



S A F 

In plentiful years rye may be glv^u 
to fowl, or hogs, which lafl dcliglit in 
it, and will fttci very well on it whcri 
ground, and made into a paHc, but thep 
they fliouid always have water, and 
alio a few beans or peafe at the lalt, 
to harden their fat, which is c usnionly 
very beneficial in moft methods ol leed- 
ing them. 

This grain Is very fubjeft to grow 
in the ear, if any wet comes to it ; 
and it will be foon damagtJ if any 
green weeds are mixed wiili it, fo that 
particular care muft be taken of it 
in both thefe refpeds, to let it havs 
time in the field, to prevent the weeds 
mnking it to give in the barn, which 
will make the corn multy, and there- 
fore it (hould be houfed dry, and that 
as fcon as ever you can get it fo. 

The keeping it in the chaff, on a 
dry fioor, is advifed for the prcfeiving 
It fweet after it is thrafhed ; the diy 
chaff imbibing any moidure which 
may happen. This method has been 
mentioned for prcferving wheat, and 
is ufeful in fcveral other grams. 

Rv£-GRASS. See Rey-grass. 



s. 



SAF-FLOWF.R. {Cn'tnam.n.'l Baf- 
tard falTron is cultivated for the 
fake of the fiower, as the faffron is; 
and probably the culture of fafi'ron 
gave rife to this article, for its flower 
is ufed to fome of the fame purpofes, 
and is called for that reafon baftard 
fafiVon. ^ 

The plant however is utterly unlike 
faffron ; it is a kind of thiffle, and 
wherever it grows, whether wild or 
cultivated, it has very much the ap- 
•pearance of a weed. 

It is an annual plant. The ftalk is 
fturdy, Fobuft, and four feet high. 
The leaves are large and broad, not 
divided or indented, but befet with 
prickles at tlie edges ; the flowers grow 
at the tops of the branches, into 
whicii the main Ilalk divides towards 
Its upper part; and are a kind of 
iargefcaly heads, fnmewhat relcmbling 
ihqfe of cur thiilie;, w'jh a grept 



quantity of threads iiTuIng cut at thei.- 
tops. Thefe threads are of a molt 
bright and beautiful yellow, and have 
been fuppofed by fome to refemble the 
blades in the flower of faffron ; but 
there is not much likenefs. It is fcr 
the fake of thefe the plant is culti- 
vated principally, though the feeds are 
alfo an article in trade. The root is 
white and long, and it perifhes as foon 
as the feeds are ripened. Its firll 
fhoot vi'hen fown, is in certain large 
broad leaves, but thefe perifli wheji 
the ftaik rifes. 

The flower of the Carthamus, exa- 
mined mere accurately, is found tc> 
be contained in a large common cup; 
this ferves for the feveral flowers of 
wliich the whole tuft is compofed, and 
forms what we call tiie head of the 
Carthamu«. It is of an oval form, and 
is compofed of a great number of 
fcales placed like tiles one over ano- 
ther, 



S A F 



SAP 



:!ier, and they have each the addition 
of a kind of little leaf of an oval 
form. Tlie whole tuft is compofed 
of r<rveral lubtlar f^o-.vcrs, each is 
formed of a finijle leaf, and lias the 
hollow narroweft at the bafe, and wi- 
der all the way to the mouth, where 
it is dividad into five little, and nearly 
equal fegments. 

In this tiower rife five fhort fila- 
ments, and at the tops of them fland 
fo many buttons, which are of a cy- 
lindriclc form, and ohlong. 

In the bafe of the flower is depofi- 
ted the rudiment of the fruit j this is 
very fmall and fhort ; from its top 
there rifes a kind of filamtnt lona;er 
than the others. This is the part to 
which tlu- three blades «;row in the 
flower of the right fafFron ; but in 
this it is terminated only by a plain 
little head, which fcrves to receive the 
dud from the heads of the (hort fila- 
ments to imprejn ne the ferd. 

When tite whole tender part of the 
flower is faded, tlie fcaly head remains, 
and contains the feeds. One follows 
every fiower. 

Several other fpecies have been added 
to this, and called by the fame name, 
one with blue flower?, and oth.trs witii 
divided leaves j but the true and pro- 
per plant to be raifed for ufe is that 
heredefcribed. 

It is a native of Egypt, and feveral 
parts of the eaft; and is cultivated in 
many of the warmer parts of Europe ; 
it thrives alfo very well in England. 

The principal place where we have 
feen it in England, is in fome parts of 
Norfolk ; but, if worth while, it might 
be raifed in any other part of the 
kingdom. 

Thofe who fhall thinkit worth while 
to r'iife it, mufl obferve the following 
direiflions : In the firft place, let the 
farmer take care to have the feeds from 
abroad ; and as often as he fows it ct 
him get frelh ones, for they do not 
I 'pen Well in England. Thefe may be 
had at a very fm ill expence, and with 
little trouble. The druggilts fell them, 
but theirs are not to be ufed, for t!!ey 
are commoniy old. But fuch a quan- 
tity cf it is raifed every year in Ger- 
many, that good fesd may always be 
had. 

When the feed Is procured, the fe- 
cond care is th--' ground, 1'he bcft 



foil Is a diy loam, and It does not re- 
quire a rich piece of land of this 
kind, fothat the charge of this article 
is not great, nor indeed in any other. 

The feeds are to be fown by hand 
in a fparing manner on the land ia 
fpring, and to be harrowed in. When 
tliey have fhot, and the plants have 
fome (Irength, they are to be thinned. 
Hoers fhould be fcnt into th.e field for 
this purpofe, and they fnould have or- 
ders not only to cut up what weeds 
have rifcn, but to thin the plants them- 
felvcs, leaving them about a foot dif- 
tartt, and faving fuch as appear the 
Arongefl and moft thriving. From 
this time no farther care need be taken 
of them ; they will grow quick, and 
bein'g Arong plants, and thus near to 
one another, no weeds will be ab?e lo 
get nourifhment among them. Early 
in autumn they will begin to flower; 
and then the field will make a beauti- 
ful appearance; there is nothing can 
exceed the brightnefs and golden hue 
of the flowers, nor have we any thing 
of our own growth that comes ncaf 
them. The plants branch out to- 
wards the top, and the upper part of 
every branch is loaded with flowers, 
(a that the whole field is covered, and 
as it were gilded with them. 

The gathering of thefe flowers (o 
far refembles that of faffron, that they 
are to be taken as tht-y open; for if 
left for feveral dsys together, they will 
lofe their colour, and that is in a man- 
ner their whole value. 

For this reafon as foon as there Is 
any number of them open, tlie pick- 
ers, who are in this article the gatherers 
alfo, art to be fent into the field. The 
flowers are not gathered there and 
picked afterwards, but the whole bu- 
tinefs is done at once. The whole 
tender part of the flower is to be taker, 
leaving the fcaiy bud. When thofe 
which are open are thus carefully 
picked off, they are to be fpread upon 
a large floor in an airy place out of 
the fun to dry ; and this is all that H 
to be done to therjT, 

When they are dried in this manner, 
they look of as beautiful a colour as 
while growing, and they are ready for 
faie without fartlier care or trouble. 

Every day or two the pickers are to 
be then fent into the field as at firft, to 
githtr the flowers as ihsy fhcw them- 



SAG 



SAG 



ftlvcs, ard tbis is to he the meilicM 
till tlio. wliole quantity are Klown j one 
parcel hting pui. to dry afttr anrtlicr. 
'I'he wliole [Jircel being; thus prep.iied 
hy a (iinple and natural drying, is rea- 
dy for the purcliafer. 

If ttie fcafon Ims been favourable, 
and the crop have flowered early, fome 
feeds may ripen j but as this is luc'i a 
prcat uncertainty, there is nodepcnd- 
er.ce ii|)on it ; and the better method 
IS to grub tip the plants as foon 2S tlie 
ftbwers are gathered, that the lar.d 
may be prepared for fome other crop. 

'I'he dyeis are tlit people who pur- 
chafe the tlovi'trs ; fome iiave Icily fujj- 
nofed they were of rlie fame nature 
v/ith faffrcn, becaufe they refemblcd 
that drug in fome degree in appear- 
ance; but it is fo far otherwife, tliat 
as faffron is a cordial and fwcat, tiu-fe 
Aowers are a pur^e^ and the feeds a 
vomit. 

Wc have mentioned the only right 
and honeft ufe of the flowers of this 
plant ; but tl.eie have been fome, 
■when it was more cultivared thnn it is 
;)t prefent in England, vtho had a way 
of mixing it with f^tftVon when they 
worked it in the drying. 

How improper this was we may 
know from the difference cf the vir- 
toes of one and the ctherj but there 
was another reafon why the farmer 
rever fhculd have done this, which is, 
that it reduces the price. 

The thieady part of the Carthamus 
4s narrow, harlh, d-y, and paler co- 
loured than the blades of faffron ; 
therefore no art can fo blend them to- 
gether, as to make them capable of 
impofinc; upon any but the ignorant j 
It was the inferior fort of fafFion made 
up Irom the lall gatherings that they 
iTvJxed up in tin's manner, and it re- 
duced the piiceof tlii-* Itill lower. 

One reafon why the fcreign laifrcrt 
is held in fo much contempt in Eng- 
land is, tliat there is too often Cai- 
thamus among it. 

SAFFRON. See Crocus. 

Mfij.Vjw Sakkron. SeeMEADow 

S.^KFRON. 

•S.AGAPENU.M. A concrete juics 
bfought from Alexandria, eith.er in 
diltindl tears, or run together in large 
malfes. It is outwardly of a yellcwifii 
colour, internally fomewhat paler, and 
cl:ar liki hoin, 5:0 ^vi foft upon being 



!)andlcd, and llicks to the fingers; ft* 
tadeis hot and biting; the fmtll dif. 
ajiiceahie, by fome rtfcmbled to that 
oi a ktk, by oihers to a mixture of 
air.iicetida and ^alhanum. 

S-ivcapenum i» ar uf'rful aperient and 
dei<blliucnt J and frequently prefcri- 
btd either alone, or in conjundlion 
with animoniaciim, oi galb.-mum, for 
o]<ening obilru6t'ons of il.t vifccra, 
and in hylterical djforders ^ttifing from 
a deficiency of the menlliual purga- 
tions. It likcwifs deterges the pul- 
monary velTels, and proves of conli- 
deiable fcrvice in fome kinds of alln- 
mas, wlie;e the lungs a;e opprtfTcd !-,y 
vifcid phlegm. It is mofl conimcdi- 
ouily given in the form of pills ; from 
two or three grains to half a dram, 
may be given every night or oftntr, and 
continued for fome time. When fa- 
gapcnum is fcarce, tiie drug^iils ufu- 
ally fupply its place with the larger 
and darker coloured malFes of bdel- 
lium, broken into pieces j wlilcii are 
not cafily dilhnguilhed from ir. 

SAGE. [Sak'ia.] Officinal fage, the 
varieties of which are, The common 
broad-leaved green facie; the comnion 
culinary red fage ; the broad-leaved 
hoary balfamic fage, having the broad- 
eft leaves of all tiie forts, (landing on 
long foot-ftalks ; wormwood fage ; 
narrow-leaved hoary fage, or fage of 
virtue; lavender-leaved fage; varie- 
gated green tz^c ; and variegated red 
fage. 

Sage is moft ufually propagated by 
flips, which fliould be planted about 
the middle of April in a fhady border, 
and watered if the weather be dry. 

Tliere are feveral other fpccies of 
fage cultivated in gardens for variety, 
fome cf which want the afTillance of 
the Hove and green-hcufeoccafionally. 

The writers on the materia medica 
are full of the virtues of fage, and de- 
rive its name from its fuppofed falu- 
tary qualities, (Salvia fjlvuirix, natu- 
rte conc'iliatnx — Cur mor'.a'.ur homo, cut 
fahia crefcit in hi: to, &c.) Its real ef- 
fefls are, to moderately warm and 
ftrsngthen the veOcls ; and hence, in 
cold phlegmatic habits, it excites ap- 
petite, and proves ferviceable in debi- 
Ji'iis of the nervous fyftem. The beft 
preparation for thefe purpofes Is an in- 
fiifjoa of the dry leaves, drank as tea j 
or 3 tinfture, or extraO, made witlj 
ts^ttied 



S A I 



S A I 



tefllfied fplrit, taken In proper dofes ; other hard matter, to ftop its running ; 

there confain the v\hole virtues of the t>ut that otlierwile it fpends in root, 

fage ; the diftilled water and efTential and comes to nothing above ground. 

oil, only its warmth and aromatic qua- Tliis is an error too grofs to need much 

lity, without any thing of ito rough- refutation. It is certain, that th« 

rcfi or bitterifhnefs. Aqueous infu- roots being to plants what the ftomach 

iions of the leaves, with the addition and guts are to animals, the more and 

of a Jitile lemon juice, prove an ufe- larger roots any plant has, the more 

ful diluting drink in febrile diforders, nouriftiment it receives, and the bet- 

of an elegant colour, and fufficicnily ter it thrives. 

acceptable to the palate. Saintfoin always fucceeds where its 

Saci of jfiruj'j/em. Lungwort. roots run deep, and the belt crops of 

Sage-tree, [P/i!cmis.] A fhrubby all are produced upon lands where 

evergreen plant, of which there are there is no hard under foil to obftru£t 

many fpecies j but four, cliiefly cuiti- their pairage. An under foil .if clay 

vated in the Englifli gardens. They may kill the plants by retaining the 

are all propagated by lasers and cut- water, and chilling and rotting their 

tings. roots. 

yVaodSAcz, This grows wild In The long root of falntfoin has, nesr 

woods and hedges. In fmell, ta/k, the furface, many horizontal roots if. 

and medical virtues, i;c is more like fuing from it, which extend them- 

fcordium than fage. felves every way; there are of the 

SAGO. The medullary part of the fame kind all the way down as the 

tree is beaten with water, and made roots go, but they grow fhorter and 

into cakes, which are ufed by the In- fliorter ail the way. Any dry land 

dians as bread: Thefe reduced into may be made to pioduce this valuable 

granules, and dried, are the fago and ufeful plant, tiiough it be ever fo 

brought to us. It is moderately nu- poor, but the richeft and beft land 

tritious, though not perhaps fuperior will produce the beft crops of it. 

to our own grain. The beft way of fowing it is by drill - 

SAINTFOIN, or Sainfoik, the Jng, but the earth mult be very well 

name given by the French, and conti- prepared, and the feed well ordered, ,. 

nued by us, to a fpecies of plant, fre- or elfe very little of it will grow, 

quently ufed for thp food of cattle, ei- The heads of thefe feeds are fo large. 



ther frelh or dried; it is called holy- 
hay, or wholefome hay, from its ex- 
cellent nutritive quality. The (talks 
of the plant are commonly about two 
feet long, but they grow fometimes to 
five or fix feet, and it has tufts of red 
flowers of threp, four, .or five inches 
in length. 



and their necks fo weak, that, if they 
be much more than half an inch deep, 
they are not able to rifts through the 
incumbent mould ; and, if they are 
rot covered, they will be malted, as 
the farmers exprefs it ; that is, it will 
fend out its root while it lies above- 
ground, and be killed by the air; and 
This plact will make a Vorty times wi.tiher the farmer plants bad feed 
greater increafe in poor '^' jund than that will not grow, or good feed that 
the common turf; and this is owing is buried or malted, the event will be 
to having a long perpendicular root, the fame. The g-^ound will be under- 
of that kind called tap root, which fiocked with plants. A bufliel of feed 
^nks to a great depth to attraft its to an acre of land is full twenty ietd% 
nourifhment. The length of this to each fquare foot of land ; but as 
root is fcarce to be credited by any there is fonie difference in the large- 
but thofe who have feen it ; it is he- nefs of the fe-ds, there is no abfolute 
quently drawn out of the ground to certainty as to this calculation. The 
the length of twelve or fourteen feet, worll feafons for planting it are the 
but it is faid to b£ often thirty feet or beginning of winter, and the droughc 
more in length. of fumnier; the belt is the beginning _ 

The farmers have a general opinion of the fpring ; and it is always ftrorg- 

^hat this plant never fucceeds well in ell when planted alone, and is rot 

any land where there is not an under fovvn together with corn, as is the 

itratum of ftone, «r chalk, or fom« pradice U fome farirjJrs. If barley. 

You. II, *>»« , 



S A I 



8 A I 



oats, or any other corn, fown with 
the faintfoin, liappen to be lodged af- 
terwards, it kills the young faintfoin. 
It' it be planted with any other corn, 
it is bell done by drilling in the horft- 
hoeing way ; in this cafe it is not much 
liable to be killed by the lodtjint; of 
the corn, as the drilled corn feldom 
falls at all, and when it does, never 
falls fo low as the fown corn. 

The quantity of feed to be drilled 
wpon an acre of land will depend 
wholly upon the goodnefs of it ; for 
there is fome feed of which not one in 
ten wirl flrike, whereas in good feed 
not one in ten will fail. The method 
of knowing the goodnefs is, by fow- 
ing a certain number of the feeds, and 
feeing how many plants arc produced 
by them. The external figns of the 
feeds being good are, that the hufk is 
of a bright colour, and the kernel 
plump, of a light grey or blue colour, 
and fometimes of a fliining black. 
The feed may be good, though the 
hofk be black, as that is owing fome- 
times to the letting it receive the wet 
In the field, not to its being half-rot- 
ted in the heap. 

If the kernel be cut a-crofs, and ap- 
pear greenilh and frerti, it is a certain 
fign that it is good. If it be of a 
yellowifh colour, and friable, and 
look thin and pitted, they are bad figns. 
The quantity of feeds allowed to the 
acre in the drill way is much lefs than 
that by fowing, and is to be computed 
according to the number of plants that 
sre to be allowed in that fpace, allow, 
ing for the common cafualties. It is 
Oct neceflary to be exaft in this calcu- 
lation, or to fay whether two, three, 
or four hundred plants are to be al- 
lowed to a fquare perch j neither is it 
poffible to know before-hand the pre- 
cife number of plants that may live 
out of thofe that come up ; for fome- 
times the grub takes them when they 
have only ihe two firft leaves, and the 
crop is greatly diminifhed by this 
means. Four gallons of good feed to 
an acre of land will cover it with 
plants, when judicioully managed. 

Single plants of faintfoin make the 
jreatelt crops; but the farmers in 
jccneral plant them fo clofe, that they 
flan'e one another. The fingle plants 
always run the deeped, and thofe 
T/.hich Ao fo will ^liways draw moA 



nourifhment. The plants which 
lland crowded ftarve one another, and 
often die after a few years ; but the 
fingle ones grow to a vaft bignefs, and 
are every year better and better. 

The bell way to calculate how many 
plants are to be allowed to a perch, is 
to compute how much hay each fingle 
large plant will produce; for if kept 
fingle and well cultivated, they will 
all be large ones. Without culture, 
tliefe plants never arrive at a fourth 
part of the fize that they do wich it. 
1 he hay of a laige fingle cultivated 
plant will weigh more than half a 
pound; a hundred and twelve plants 
Upon a fquare perch, weighing but a 
quarter of a pound a piece, one with 
another, amount to two tons to an 
acre. If faintfoin be planted on fome 
forts of land early in the fpring and 
hoed, it will fometimes produce a crop 
the following fummer; in a garden 
the feeds fown in .February will yield 
plants of two feet high that will flower 
in the month of June following; and 
though March be frorty, the young 
plants feldom fuflTer by it. This (hews 
that this plant is naturally a quick 
grower; but the farmers ufually plant 
it on poor or cold land, and give it 
too little culture, which makes it 
backward, and flow of growth with 
them. The poor land, ufually al- 
lotted to this plant, alfo makes it ge- 
nerally yield but one crop a year, but 
on a rich land it will yield two very 
good crops annually, with a moderate 
fhareof culture afid management. 

The farmer who expe^Vs to make a 
protu of this plant muft'not exped a 
good crop the firll year. Nothng is 
fo injurious to faintfoin as its ftandiiig 
too thick: if it be fo thick as to 
cover the ground the firft fummer, the 
plants will ftarve one another for ever 
after; but if the owner will be con- 
tent to place them fo thinly as to have 
but a fniall crop the firft yejr, they 
will increafe prodigiouHy, and every 
fucceeding crop will be better and 
better. When faintfoin is well hoed, 
it will grow as much in a fortnight as 
it would otherwife do in fix weeks; 
and this quick growing is of advantage 
to it every way, not only making the 
plants large, but of better nourifh- 
ment to the cattle, whether they are 
eaten greeu or made into hay. 

The 



S A I 

The proper diftance to drill this 
pl-nt for the horfc-hoeing hulbandry 
is at double rows with ei^ht-inch par- 
titions between tliem, and thirty-inch 
intervals between every two and two. 
Thefe intcivjls need only be hoed al- 
ternately, leaving every other interval 
for making the hay on. This mtihcd 
of hoeing is of vaft advantage, and 
poor land by means of it will always 
produce two crops a year. The land 
IS always to be perfeftly cleared of 
grafs before the fawing the fainifoin, 
and the lumps of earth carefully bro- 
ken. But no harrowing is to be al- 
lowed after it is drilled, for that would 
bury it; and it is not proper to roll it 
at all, unlcfs for the fake of barley, 
when they are fown together ; and 
whtn that is done, it fhould be with 
a light roller, and in dry weather. 
This fliould be done lengthwifc of the 
rows, and as foon as it is drilled; if 
it IS not done at this time it is beft to 
ftay three weeks before it is done, that 
the necks of the young faintfoin may 
rot be broken. 

No cattle are to be fufFered to come 
in the firft winter upon the faintfoin, 
after the corn is out among which it 
was fown. Their feet would injure it 
by treading the ground hard, as much 
as their mouths by cro)jping it, and it 
would never come to good. Sheep 
fhould not be fufFered to come at it, 
even the following fummer and win- 
ter. One acre of drilled faintfoin, 
confidering the difference of the quan- 
tity and goodnefs of the crop, is 
worth two acres of fown faintfoin on 
the fame land, though the expencc of 
drilling be twenty times lefs than that 
of fowing. The firft winter is the 
time to lay on manure after the corn is 
reaped off. Pot-alhes, or the like, are 
very proper, and a fmall quantity cf 
them will do, as there are at this time 
no other plants to partake of the be- 
nefit, but the young crop has it all, 
and the young plants being thus made 
ftrong at firlt, will continue fo, and 
be long the better for it. 

It is obferved, however, that in the 
drilling and horfe-hoeing way, there is 
no necefllty for any manure nt all. 
Some tanners fov.' eight or ten bufhels 
of the feed of faintfoin to an acre along 
vnhh (heir coin, with intent that it 



£ A r 

fliould kill all the ether weeds ; but 
the confequence is, that the plants 
Hand clofe, and ftarve one another, 
and arc no bi?ger than where the 
plant grows wild on the hills in Cala- 
bria, where it is fo fmall and feemingly 
defpicable a plant, that it fcems a 
wonder that any body Ihould be tempt- 
ed to think of cultivating it ; yet, 
when riglitly managed, it feems capa- 
ble of being as ufeful a plant as any in 
the world. Where thefe plants Itand 
fo think they draw all the nourilhment 
from the ground in a few years, antl 
fo die, though manured ever fo careful- 
ly. Six or feven years feem thtir 
greatert duration ; whereas, when the 
feed h drilled in, and the plants are 
hoife-hocd, they will be as firong and 
vigorous as ever at 30 years flanding. 

Some people who have turned their 
thoughts to I'ufbandry, have been of ■ /^ ^ 
opinion, that the cytifus would fuc. Vt,fCc/f 
ceed better with us than faintfoin j it ' 

is probable enough that it would grow 
well ; but the labour of fheering it 
would, with us, where the pay of fer- 
vanti is fo dear, run away with the 
profits of the crop. 

Lucerne is another thing which 
many have thought of introducing a- 
mong us in the place of faintfoin, bun 
it requires fo inuc!) caretofuit it with 
a proper foil, that, whatever are the 
profits of it, it nevtr can be fo general 
as faintfoin. 

Saintfoin, fays Mr. Duhamel, de- 
ferves the farmer's iitnioft attention, 
as one of the moft profitable plants he 
can cultivate. It will do on almoft 
any land ; and though it fuccecds beft 
In good foils, yet it will grow even ori 
dry barren fpots where fcarce any other 
grafs can live, provided its roots be 
not chilled by a cold clay, or other 
fubftance which retains water; and it 
has this farther advantage, that it may 
be mowed at difTerent degrees of ripe- 
ncfs, with nearly the fame profit. 

I. It may be mowed before it is in 
bloom, for it is then admirable food 
for horned cattle ; and when cut thus 
early, it yields a fccond crop, which 
makes ample amends for what was 
loll by not letting the firrt come to its 
full growth. This early cutting 1% 
likewife attended with unothcr benefit, 
which is, that it purges cattle in 'he 

C 2 btjiiu.inj 



S A I 

fceglnmng of the fummcr, and thereby 
frees tliem Irom diforders occalioned 
by the winter's cold, or dry food. 

a. If tlie weather bs rainy, the 
faintfoin may be left ftanding till it is 
in bloom; when it ffill is excellent 
fodder for cows. But care miift be 
taken in making it into iiay, that the 
flowers do not drop off", as they are 
very apt to do : for cattle are fo fond of 
thefc flowers that tliey often induce 
them to eat the re(t of the plant. 

3. If the rain continues, the faint- 
foin may be left ftanding till fome of 
its feeds are formed, and the crop will 
then be the more plentiful, not only 
becaufe it will have attained its full 
growth, but likewife becaufe its leaves 
being more fubftantial, diminifli lefs 
in drying. It is not indeed, then, quite 
fo fweet as before; but hcifes eat it 
feadily, becaufe they love to feel be- 
tween their teeth the feeds, vvhioh now 
begin to be formed. 

Mr, Tull fays, thi.« fodder is fo ex- 
cellent, that horfes need no oats when 
they are fed with it. He affirms, that 
he kept a team of horfes with it a 
whole year in good plight, without 
giving them any oats, though they 
were worked hard all the time. He 
adds, that he fattened fheep with it in 
lefs time than others which were fed 
with corn. But the hay of this plant 
can never be fo good as when it is cul- 
tivated with the liorfe-hoe ; for in the 
common hufbandry, it bloflbms alraoll 
as foon as it is out of the ground. 

4. If the feafon continues rainy, it 
may be more advifeable to let the 
faintfoin remain ilanding, than to run 
the hazard of having it rot upon the 
grovmd ; for then the feed will ripen, 
and nearly make up for the lofs of the 
fodder ; not only becaufe it will fetch 
a good price, but alfo becaufe two 
bufliels of it will go as far in feeding 
of horfes, as three bufhels of oats ; 
and cattle in general, as well as poul- 
try, are extremely fond of it. 

The firft of thefe forts of faintfoin 
hay, cut before the bloom, is Mr. 
TuU's virgin hay, which, he fays, is 
the beft beyond comparifon, and has 
not its equal in the world except lu- 
cerne. He gives the next place to the 
fecond foit, cut whiHl in bloom, and 
fays that an acre of land, well culti- 
vated, may ykyd three tons of this 



S A I 

bloflbm»J hay ; and he erteoms the 
third fort, which he calls the full- 
grown, many degrees interior to either 
of the former ; though it yields a 
greater crop, becaufe it has grown to 
its full bulk, and fhiinks but little in 
drying. 

Even the faintfoin that has yielded 
its feed may be cut down and dried j 
and when other fodder is fcarce, this 
will be better food for horfes and large 
cattle, than the coarfe hay of flowed 
meadows, or any kind of ffraw. 

The manner of making faintfoin 
hay is thus direfted by Mr. Diihamel. 
In a day or two after the faintfoin 
has been mowed, it will be dry on the'' 
upper fide if the weather be good. 
1 he fwarths, or mowed rows, fhould 
then be turned, not fmgly, but two 
and two together; for by thus turning 
them in pairs, double the fpace of 
ground is left betwixt pair and pair, 
and this needs but once raking, where- 
as, if the fwarths were turned fingly, 
that is, all the fame way, the ground 
would require as much raking again. 

As foon as both fides of the fwarths 
are a little dry, they fhould be made 
up into fmall cocks the fame day they 
are turned, if pofTible ; for when the 
faintfoin is in cock, a lefs part of it 
will be expofed to the injuries of the 
night, than when it lies fcattered upon 
the field. The fun and dew would 
exhault almod all its juices in this laft 
cafe, in lefs than a week's time. 

Thefc little cocks of faintfoin may 
be fafely made into larger ones, with- 
out waiting for their being fo tho- 
roughly dry as thofe of common hay 
ought to be before they are laid toge- 
ther; becaufe common hay, by fink- 
ing down clofer, excludes the air ne- 
ceifary for keeping it fweet ; fo that if 
the weather prevents its being fre- 
quently flirred and opened, it will 
heat, turn yellow, and be fpoiled ; 
whereas faintfoin, by adnvitting the 
air more freely, becaufe its flalks aie 
lefs flexible, will remain much longer 
without any danger of fermenting, 

Saintfoin hay is never better than 
when it has been dried by the wind 
only, without the afTiftance of the fun» 
A little rain, or a niifl, which will 
turn common hay or clover, and even 
lucerne black, will do no hurt to faint- 
foin, \vhi«h ii not really fpoiled till it 

rou 



S A I 



SAT 



Tots upon the ground. If the weather 
threatens rain, and the faintfoin ii not 
yet dry, it may be laid in cocks, with- 
cut fear of its hoatinp, provided a 
larfce baAcet, or bufhy tagsct, be fet 
up in the middle of each cock, where 
it will ferrc for a vent-hole, through 
which the fuperfluous moillure of the 
liay will cranfpire. 

As foon as ail danger of heating is 
over, thefe cocks fhould be made into 
ricks, and thatched. That which is 
laid up quite dry, will ccme out of the 
rick of a green colour; that which has 
heated much in the rick, will look 
blown. 

It requires Tome experience to know 
at what degree of ripenefs it is beft to 
cut the feeded faintfcin ; becaufe ail 
i;. feeds Jo not ripen at the fame time, 
Some ears bloffom before others ; c- 
■very ear begins bloflToming at its lower 
part, and continues to blow gradually 
upward, for many days; fo that be- 
fore th^ flower is gone off at the top, 
the feeds are almort filled at the bot- 
toin. By this means, if the cutting 
be deferred till the top fgeds are quite 
ripe, the lower, which are the bc(t, 
would fhed and be lofl. The beft 
time, thereftxe, to cut it, is when 
the greatcft part of the feed is well 
filled, the firft blown ripe, and the laft 
blown beginning to be full. The wn- 
ripe feeds will ripen after cutting, and 
be in all refpects as good as tlicfe that 
were ripe before. Some for want of 
cbferving this, have fufFered their 
faintfcin feed to ftand till all of it has 
fhed, and been lo(t in cutting. 

Saintfoin (hould never be cut in the 
heat of the day, while the fun (hines 
out; for then much, even of the un- 
ripe feed, will fhed in mowing. The 
right time for this work is the morn- 
ing or the evening, when the dew has 
rendered the plants fupple. 

If the weather is fine and clear, the 
faintfoin will foon dry fufficiently in 
the fwarths, without turning them ; 
but if any rain has fallen, and there 
is a necelTity for turning them, it 
fliould he done very gently while they 
are moift, and not two fsvarthed to- 
gether, as in tlie other hay made of 
faintfoin before it has feeded. If the 
fwarths are turned with the handle of 
the rake, it is beft to raife up the ear- 
tides firfl, and let the ftub-fide reft on 



the gr^ynd in turning; but if it is 
done with the teeth of the rake, k-t 
the Aub-fide be lifted up, and (he e^rs 
reited on the earth. 

If faintfoin be cocked at »!!, the 
fooner it is done the better, becaufe rf 
the fwarths are dry, much of the feed 
will be loli in feparating tliem, the 
ears being entangled toeether. V/hen 
moiO, the feed Aicks fart in tlie ear ^ 
but when dry, it drops out with the 
leart touch or fhaking. 

There are two ways of thra-liing it, 
the one in the lield, the other in t!>e 
barn. The firrt cannot be done but 
in very tine weather, and wliile the 
fun fhines in the middle of the day. 
The belt manner of perfcrniing tiiis is 
to have a large fheet pegged down to 
the ground for two men to thralh on 
with their flails, while tvjo others 
bring them frefli fupplies in a fmalltsr 
fheet, and two more clear away the' 
hay that has been thrartied. '1 he feed 
is emptied out of tlie larger fheec, and, 
riddled through a large lieve, to fepa- 
rate it from the chaff and broken 
llalks ; after which it is put into facks 
and carried into the barn to be win- 
nowed. Care (hould be taken not tt» 
let the hay get wet, becaufe it would 
then be fpoiied. 

A very important, and at the fame 
time very difficult article is, the keep- 
ing of the fe«d that has been thiallie* 
in the field, witiiout ever having besTt 
wetted. If it be winnowed imme- 
diately, and only a little of it laid a. 
niidft a great heap, or put into a fack, 
it will ferment to fuch a degree in a 
few days, that the greatelt part of 
it will lofe its vegetative quality. Du- 
ring t!>at fermentation, it will be very 
hot, and fmeil four. Spreadirg it 
upon a barn floor, though but fV^vea 
or eight inchet thick, will anfwer n» 
end, unlefs it be freque-.tly and regvi, 
larly turned both day and i>ight, until 
the heating is over; hut even this 
will not make its colour keep fo bright 
as that which is well houfed, well 
diied, and thralhcd in the winter. 
This \a(^, laid up unt'iralhed, wiB 
keep without any danger of fpoiiin«^ 
becaufe it does not lie dofe enough m 
heat. Tl:e befl way to i>referve tne 
feed thraflied in the field is, to lay a 
layer of ftraw upon a barn floor, ar»4 
upon that a thin layer of I'eed, th«a 
Aaoibrt- 



SAL 



SAL 






another layer of ftr.iw, and anothfr 
layer of feed, and fo on alternately. 
By this means the feed mixinj; with 
the ftraw, will be kept cool, and come 
out in the f|'ring with ai green a co- 
lour as when it is put in. 

SALEH, A celebrated rertorative a- 
mong the Turks, ib probably the pre- 
jiared root of certain plants of the 
orchis kind. This drug, as fome- 
times biought to us, is in oval pieces, 
of a yellowifii wiiiie colour, fomewhat 
clear and pellucid, very hard, and al- 
niort horny, of little or no fmell, and 
tafling like gum tragacanth. Satyrion 
loor, boiled in water, freed from the 
<T\in, and afterwards fiifpendel in the 
air to dry, gains exa(fliy the fame ap- 
^learance j the roots thus prepared, 
difTolve in boiling water into a muci- 
lage. Geoffrey, who firil communi- 
cated this preparation of orchis, re- 
commends it in confumpiions, in bi- 
lious dyfinttries, and diforders of the 
breafl proceeding from an acrimony of 
the juices. 

SALLENDERS. A difeafe in horfes, 
confifting in ciacks in the bending of 
the lijugh, and occafion a lamenefs 
hth ni. This diffaTe is cured in the 
{?.ms manner as the mallenders. S;:e 

W A L L E N D E R S , 

SALT-MARSHES. Pjfture-lands 
lying near the fea, and fometimes o- 
\erflowed by the fea-water. 

" It has been obferved," fays an in- 
genious writer in the Mufeum Rufti- 
cum, " that horfes and black cattle 
thrive better, and get fat fooner, in 
fait- raai flies, than in frefh-water mea- 
dows or upland paffures ; yet I do not 
remem'ner ever to have heard any good 
reafon afligned for it. 

*' Some will tell you that the air of 
the fea whets their appetites ; that the 
parture is rich and nourjfhingj and 
that the herbs produced by the lands 
rear the fea are more conducive to the 
healtli of herbaceous animals, than 
fuch as grow on upland paftures, whe- 
ther natural or artiiici^l. 

" Rut may we not rather attribute 
the tli:iving of cattle on thefe marfhcs, 
to the faline particles with which the 
earth as well as its produce is, when 
near the fea, flrongly impregnated ? 
Perhaps even the dews have their por- 
tion of fait ; but of this I have made 
no experiment, therefore mention ic 



only as a probable conjefture ; for »» 
thty tall foon after they are exhaled 
from the fea, without pafTing through 
the fecreiions necefTary to feparaie 
t'ltii faline parts, why Ihould not this 
be the cafe ? 

" But to return to my firfl fubjeft : 
1 am fully of opinion, that the faline 
particles only, with which the grafs 
is impregnated in the above-mentioned 
marfties,caufe cattle to thrive in them 
in the manner they are known to do, 
Tiiefe falts purge away the foul hu- 
mours which the beaAs have contraft- 
ed, either by idlenefs, or by being o- 
ver-heated in labour ; by which means 
they aie better difpofed to benourilhed 
by the aliment tliey receive, 

" It may perhaps be objefted, that 
if the grafs of thcfe marlhes is apt to 
purge cattle, this very purging, by be- 
ing Icng continued, will be a means 
of preventing their growing fat. To 
this I anfwer, that the cattle take 
with their food every day nearly the 
fame quantity of thefe purgative par- 
ticles ; but that the quantity of fait, 
which at their being firll put into the 
marfn will i^ave that effeft, will ceafe 
producing it when they are by cuflom 
habituated to take a daily portion of 
it ; tliis muft be allowed, as we all 
know, that a few grains of rhubarb 
will operate as a cathartic to a perfon 
that is not accuftomed to take it; yet 
it is as well known, that a man may 
take many grains d.iily, if he ufes him- 
felf to it, without its being feRfibly 
purgative to him. 

*' It is not convenient to every one 
to fend their cattle to a falt-marfh : 
would it not, therefore, be happy, if 
we could fubrtitute a method that 
would nearly anfwer the fame pur- 
pcfe ? I do not think tliis impoflible ; 
perhaps if common falt-water were to 
be laid in the fields for horfes to lick 
as often as they pleafed, they would 
thrive much better ; were I to fay I 
know it would have that effeft, it 
would be no prefumption. 

" Cattle are all naturally fond of 
fair, and if left at their liberty, will 
take no more of it than what will do 
them good. With this help, our frefh- 
water meadows, and natural and arti- 
ficial paftures, would )ield us a greater 
profit, and of courfe be worth more 
to the land-holder and farmer, 

*' Some 



SAL 

•• Some will not allow a thing to 
have merit, unlefs it is fupported by 
what they call a proper authority ; and 
they do not allow the experiments of 
a particular perfon to he fufficicnt. 
To farisfy fuch, I can aiTore yow, that 
in the inland parts of Switzerland, 
when their horfes and cattle have en- 
dured the hardships of a I0115 and fe- 
vcre winter, tiiey turn them in the 
fpring loofe into the mountains, lay- 
ing fait here and there upcn (he rocks, 
for them to refort to when they pleafe; 
and of this they are fo fond, that when 
the farmers want to catch liteir horfes, 
they take fome fait in their hats, as wc 
do oats in a fieve, to allure them. 

" Experitnce has long convinced 
them, that the fait thus laid in their 
way anfwers every good purpofe ; 
their cattle are more heilthy in ge- 
neral than ours are in England, and 
almoft to this alone do they attri- 
bute it. 

" In the province of Munfter and 
Connaught, in Ireland, they very fre- 
<]uently lay fait on dates, for the be- 
nefit of their horfes when at grafs : 
this they find does the cattle great fer- 
vice. and in this wc fhould imitate 
t!iem, and not be too proud to learn 
of them, beraufe in Ireland Agricul- 
ture is not in fo fiourilhing a ilaie as 
in England, 

" Some few farmers hare (to do 
them juftice) praftifed this method in 
our own country ; but, contenting 
ihemfelves with the profit refuitin^ 
from it, they have not propagated 
the knowledge or the many advanta- 
ges they are fsnfible may be derived 
Irom this practice of giving fajc to 
cattle. 

" The farriers and horfe-jockeys 
know well the ufe of fait; they mix 
it of'.en in their medicines, and find 
by experience, that nothing proves fo 
powerful a llomachic to hoifcs, as a 
little fait thrown into their oats. 

" I muft farther obfcrve, that the 
life of fait is very proper when cattle 
are turned into clover, lucerne, or cole- 
feed, to feed; it is well known, tliat 
on thefe occafions they are very apt, 
unlefs great care is taken, to be fur- 
feited ; the fait would prevent this ac- 
didtnt, and thereby greatly accelerate 
tlie fattening of the cattle, and make 
it much falvt totlie farmer. 



SAN 

" Salt has alfo been found to be cf 
great fervice in fattening hogs, by 
caufing them to drink mc-: p'coiliuliy 
than otherwife they woulti." 

SALTWORT. Glaffwort. 

SALLOW. [S.i/:x.] The forts are, 
I. The common willow, \^ith acute- 
pointed rough leaves, 2. The white 
willow. 3. Yellow, or golden wil- 
low. 4. The purple, or red wiiiow. 
5. The ofier willow, 6. Broad -leaved 
fweet-fcented willow, with fi.» fta- 
mina. 7. Vvillow, with fmof th fa ved 
leaves, and three ftamina. 8 Almond 
leaved willow, g. Crack willow. 10, 
Babylonian, or weeping willow ; with 
feveral others, as Norfolk widow j 
the upland red willow j Dutch ofier; 
white ofier, Arc. The flowers of all 
are katkins ; from the fules of the 
branches thty are all ea(ily ))ropagated 
by cuttings or layers ; the former when 
defigned for pollards, and the latter 
whe.n intended for trees. 

SAMi'HIRE. {Cnihmum.'] This 
plant grows wild on rocks, and In ma- 
ritime pi ices J the leaver are fom^what 
like thofe of fennel, but the fegments 
much thicker ard fhorter j their fmell 
refembles that of fmaliage; the tafie 
is warm, bitterifh, not agreeable. They 
are friid to be flomachic, aperient, and 
diuretic. 

SANICLE, [Samcula.'] This plant 
grows wild in woods and hedges, and 
fiowers in May. The leaves have an 
herbaceous, ronghirti tafte ; they have 
lon^ been celebrated for favath'e vir- 
tues, both internally and externally: 
reverthLlefj, their effe£ls, in any in- 
tention, are not confider^hle enough 
to rain them a place in the prefent 
pra<5lice. 

Bear's Ear S.-vnicle. [^Ctrtufa.J 
This plant grows naturally on the 
Alps, and the mountains of Auilria, 
and Siberia ; it is propagated by parcing 
the roots as for the auricula. 

SAND. A genus of foflils found 
in minute concretion?, forming toge- 
ther a kind of powder, the genuine 
particles cf which are all of a tenden- 
cy to one determinate finpe, and ap- 
pear regular, thougli more or lefs com- 
plete concretions j not to be dirtolved 
or dif-united by water, or formed into 
a coherent mafs by means of it, but 
retaining their figure in it ; tranfpa- 
rcnr, vitrifiable by e.xtremc heat, and 

not 



SAN 



SAN 



rot tJiflblubk in, nor effervefclng with 
acit's. 

Thefe are fuhjeft to he varioufly 
blended and ■ncermixed either with 
fcomogene, or httcrogene particles, 
particularly vith flakes of talc ; and 
according to thefe, and their different 
colours, are to be fubdivided into fe- 
veral kinds, as red, wliite, Sec, 

Ur. Lifter divides the Englifh fands 
into two ci aires : The firft, fharp, or 
r^5 fand^ conlilling of fniall trar.f))a- 
rent pebbles, naturally found on the 
mountains, and nr>t calcinable; thefe 
lie farther diTides into fine and coarfe, 
and fubdivides each, according to the 
cololirs, into while, grey, reddifh, 
blown, &c. 

The fecond, foft or fmooth, which 
he fubdivides jiito that with flat par- 
ticles broken from IJme-ftones, that 
with lilver-like particles, and that with 
£i>ld like particles. 

As to fantl, its ufe Is to make the 
clayey earth fertile, and fit to feed ve- 
getables. Sec. for earth aione, wc find, 
is liable to coalefce, and gather into 
an hard coherent niafs, as is apparent 
in clay ; and e.irth thus embodied, and 
as it were, glued together, is no-ways 
difpofed to nourifli vegetables ; bur if 
with fuch earth, fand, SiC. i. e. hard 
cryftals, which are not dilTolvable in 
water, and llill retain their figure, be 
intermixed, they will keep the pores 
ef the earth open, and the earth itfelf 
Joofe and incompadt, ar.d by that 
ineans give room for the juices to af- 
«end, and for plants to be noDriihed 
lliercby. 

Thus a vegetable, planted either in 
fand alane, or in a lat glebe, or^arih 
alone, receives no growth or incre- 
ment at all, but is either flarved or 
fuffocated j but mix the two, and ilie 
mafs becomes fertile. In effcft, by 
means of fand, the earth is rendered 
in feme manner organical ; pores and 
interfaces being hereby maintained, 
/omething analogous to veffeis, by 
which the juices may be conveyed, pre- 
pared, digefled, circulated, & at length 
t'xcevncd, and thrown otf into the 
roofs of plants. 

Grounds that are fandyand gravelly 
eafily admit both of heat and moif- 
ttire; 1>ut then they are liable to thefe 
incorvenicDcies, that they let them 
yJi too fccn, and f» coiuraft no liga- 



ture, or elfe rctai.n it too long, efpe- 
ci.illy where there is a clay bottom } 
and by that means it either parches 
or cliills too much, and produces no- 
thing but mofs, and cankerous infir- 
mities; but if the fand happens to 
have a furface of good mould, and a 
bottom of gravel, or loofe f^one, tho* 
it do not hold the water, it may pro. 
duce a forward fweet grafs j and tho' 
it may be fubjcfl to burn, yet it quick- 
ly recovers with the lealt rain. 

Sea fand is accounted a very good 
comport for ftiff ground, for it effefts 
the two thii;gs following, viz. it makes 
way for the tree or feed to root in Itiff 
giound, and makes a fume to feed it. 

oand, indeed, is apt to pufh the 
plants that grow open it early in 
the fpring, and makes them germinate 
near a month fooner than thofe that 
grow upon clay, becaufe the falts in 
the fand are at full liberty to be raifed 
and put into motion upon the leaft 
approach of the warmth of the fun ; 
but then, as they are hafty, they are 
foon exhaled and lofl. 

It is remaikable, that fand, though 
it appear a very hard, denfe, and in- 
dilVchible body, yet is contained invj- 
fihly in the brine, or fait water of our 
fait fprings ; and even on the (hooting 
of the fait after evaporation, there flill 
remain the particles of it in the clear 
pellucid fait ; and this, though wholly 
foluble in water, yet when a brine 
made by fach a folution is boiled, de- 
pofits as much of the fand as the com- 
mon brine of the pits, or fea-water. 

Dr. Piot, who was very curious to 
know the true hiftory of this lingular 
effect, procured experiments to be 
made in the following manner : Eight 
folds of fine holland, and as many of 
finer cambrick, were put together, and 
a quantity of the brine of the Staf- 
fordshire fait pits being flrained thro' 
this, there was nothing feparated from 
it but a fmail quantity of black duft, 
which feemed to have fallen in by ac- 
cident, and which was not at all lik« 
fand ; yet, on evaporating this brine, 
it was found to contain no lefs than 
one fourth part as much fand as fait j 
the quantity of brine, yielding a bulhel 
of fair, yielding alfo a peck of fand. 

Some have fuppofeJ from thefe, and 

the like obfervations, that the fand 

was jsnsiated during the time of the 

boiling 



SAM 



SAN 



boiling the liquor, but ihs more care- 
ful examiiKrs think otiierwife; it ap- 
pearing to them that the particles of 
this fand miy be leen in the brine by 
tlie help of a microfccpe, before the 
boiling, in form of re<fl;ingular ohlong 
pla;e$, fome nearly fquare j thefe weie 
fo fiiiall as readily to pifs the Arainer 
with ttie water, and appearing as nu- 
merous in it afttr, as before the (drain- 
ing, ftiew that they are no in are to be 
kept by fuch means tiian th.- fait. 

Tlie pores of tlie fineft drainers, ex- 
amined by the microfcope, appear 
twenty times bigger than thefe plate?, 
or panicles of the fand, and therefore 
it is not to Ke v/ondered at, that they 
lit them through. There requires, 
therefore, no more to the form.iiion of 
the fand, than the coalefcing of feveral 
of thefe particles into one larger gra- 
nule, and (o on; and this is very 
likely to be done by means of the eva- 
poration of a part of the fluid which 
kept them feparate, and of the mo- 
tion given to them in boiling, which 
naturally and necefTarily brought them 
into the fpheres of their own mutual 
attraflions, at a time when their at- 
traftion with the fluid they fwam in 
was alfo much diminifhed with its 
quantity. This attradion feems even 
evidently to increafe between the par- 
ticles as the water becomes evaporated, 
and when finally the fait is drawn from 
It, and it is examined as it drops from 
the bartcets in which the fait is put to 
tlrain, it is feen to contain more nu- 
merous particles of this fandy matter 
than beforej and thefe are found to 
coalefce into yet larger concretions by 
degrees, as the remainder of the fiuid 
evaporates from them on the glafs. 

The particles of this flony matter, 
when once thus united, are no more to 
be fcparated by water, nor is the mat- 
ter any longer foluble in that fluid. 
'I'he common fpar found in form of 
flala£lites and incrullations on the 
roofs, walls, and fiuors of old caverns, 
fliews ihat it was once difTolved in 
water, and by that means brought to 
thofe places, and made into thofe 
forms; and it fhould feem that this 
fand, as it is called, was only this fort 
of fpar, which is contained more or 
lefs in all water ; and wliich, on the 
evaporating of th»t v/ater, and fcpa* 

Vol. li. 



rating the fait, which might help In 
making the water a nien<lruum proper 
for the retaining it, (hoots out into its 
own natural concretions ; for the fi- 
gure of thefe thin plates is the true and 
natural thin parallellopiped or rhom- 
boidal figure of the fmaller concretions 
of that matter, and even of thofe piece* 
into wliich it falls on breaking. 

Common fand is a very good addi- 
tion by way of manure to all forts of 
clay lands ; it warms them, and makes 
them more open and loofe. The bcfl 
fand for the farmer's ufe is that which 
is wafhed by rains from roads or liills» 
or that which is taken from the beds 
of rivers ; the common fand that is 
dug in pits never anfwers neaily fo 
well. Sand mixed with dung is mucli 
better than laid on alone; and a very 
fine manure is made by covering the 
bottom of fhtep- folds with feve- 
ral loads of fand every week, which 
are to be taken away and laid on cold 
flifF lands impregnated as tiiey are 
with the dung and the urine of the 
fhcep. 

Eefides clay land, there is another 
fort of ground very improveable by 
f!ind ; this is that fort of black foggy 
lind on which busies and fcdge grow- 
naturally, and which they cut into turf 
in fome places. Six hundred loads of 
fand being laid upon an acre of this 
land, according to the Chefhire mea- 
fure, which is near double the flatute 
acre, meliorate it fo much, that with- 
out ploughing, it will yield good crops 
of oats or tares, though before it 
would have produced fcarce any thing. 
If after this crop is taken off, the land 
be well dunged and laid down for 
grafs, it will yield a large crop of fweeC 
bay. 

Once fanding this land will improve 
it for a vart number of years, and it 
will yield two crops of hay in the 
year, if there be weather to make it 
in. Some land in Chefhire has been 
by this means rendered of tv/elve times 
its former value to the uwner. The 
bogs of Ireland, when drained, have 
been rcndired very fruitful land, by 
mixing fand in this manner iimongthe 
earth, of which they confi(L Add to 
this, that in all the boggy lands, the 
burning them, or firing their own turf 
upon them, is alfu a great advintaije. 

P p The 



SAN 



A V 



The common peat, or turf aiTies, 
mixed witli tlie fand for tliefe purpo- 
fes, add greatly to its virtue, 

Sfa fand, which is thrown up in 
cr'.iks and other place?, is. by much 
the richert of all fand for manunng 
the earth ; partly its faltnefs, and part- 
ly the fat and unftucus filth that is 
mixed among it, give it this great vir- 
tue. In the vvertern parts of England, 
that lie upon the fea-coafts, they make 
very great advantages of it. The 
fragments of fea-fhells alfo, which are 
always in great abundance in this fand, 
add to its virtues j and it is aKvays the 
moreefleemed by the farmers the more 
of thefe fragments there ars afiiong it. 

Tiie fea fand ufed as manuie in dif- 
ferent parts of the kingdom is of 
three kinds : that about Plymouth, 
and on otiier parts of the foiithern 
coa(ts, is of a blue grey colour, like 
afhes, wliich is probably owing to the 
fhells of mufdes, and other filh of 
that or the like colour, being broken 
and mixed among it in great quantity. 
Wcftward, near the land's end, the fea 
fand is very white, and about the ifles 
of Scilly it is very gliftcring, with 
fmall particles of talc; on the coaft of 
the north fea the fand is yellowilh, 
brown, or reddi(h, and contains fo 
great a quantity of fragments of coc- 
kle-fiielli, that it feems to be chiefly 
compofed of them. That fea fand is 
accounted the bed which is of a red- 
difli colour; the next in value to this 
is the bluifh, and the white is the 
woift of all. 

Sea fand is bed when taken up from 
vnder the water, or from fand banks 
which are covered by every tide. 

The fmall jrrained fand is moil fud- 
den in its operation, and is therefore 
befl for the tenant who is only to take 
three or four crops ; but the coarfe or 
large-grained fand is much better for 
the landlord, as the good it does lalls 
many years. 

Where the fand is dredged out of 
the fea, it is ufuaily twice as dear as 
where it is taken from the fand banks. 

When the land has been v.'ell ma- 
nured with the large fand, they take 
four crops of corn from it, and then 
lay it down for pafture for fix or feven 
years before they plough it again. The 
grafs is fo good, that they commonly 
mow it for hay the firft year; it 



always abounds very much wIfTi 
the white - flowered clover. If the 
grafs grows but fhort, it is the far- 
mer's interefl to feed his cattle upon 
it, and it will turn to as good account 
this way, being \cry fweet and rich, 
and making the cattle fat, and the 
cows yield a very large quantity of 
milk. 

.SAP, A juice furnifhed by the 
eartli, and changed into the plant, 
confifting of foffil, faline, aerial, and 
other particles from putrified animals, 
vegetables, &c. 

SARCOCOLLA. A concrete juice, 
brought from Per/la and Arabia, in 
fmall, whiiifh, yellow grains, with a 
few of a reddilh, and fometimes of a 
deep red colour, mixed with them ; 
the whitef^ tears are preferred, as be- 
ing the ftelheft : Its taile is bitter, ac- 
companied with a dull kind of fweet- 
nefs. This drug diflfolves in w.-itcry 
liquors, and appears to be chiefly of 
the gummy kind, with a fmall admix- 
ture of refinous matter. It is princi- 
pally celebrated for conglutinating 
wounds and ulcers, a quality which 
neither this, or any other drug, has a 
jull title to. It is an ingredient in the 
f>u'.-vh e cer-jfj* comfifuu:, 
SASSAFRAS. See Bay. 
SATTINFLOWER. SeeHoNKSTY 
S.^TYRION. SeeDoGSTONEs. 
SAUCE- ALONE. See Hedge 
Mustard. 

SAVIN. See Ju^•IPER. This is a 
warm irritating aperient medicine, ca- 
pable of promoting fvveat, urine, and 
all the glandular fecretions. Thedif- 
tilled oil is one of the moft powerful 
emmenagogues, and is found of good 
fervice in obfiru£Vions of the uterus, or 
other vifcera, proceeding from a lax- 
ity and weaknefs of the veflels, or a 
coldfluggifti indifpofiticnof the juices, 
SAVORY. {Saturcla.'] A plant 
much cultivated in the kitchen-garden, 
and is of two forts, viz. fummer and 
winter favory, the ufes of both which 
are nearly the fame. 

The former is an annual plant, raifed 
only from its feed, which fhould be 
fown in the beginning of April, in a 
bed of loofe and light earth. If the 
plants are not intended fo be removed, 
their feeds fhould be fcattered thinly ; 
but if they are to be tranfplanted, 
they may be fown thicker, They 
muft 



SAX 

muft be kept clear from weeds, and 
are in other rclpedlt to be treated as 
inaTJoram. 

Winter favory may be propagated 
from Jeeds fown at the fame time as 
tliofe of the fummer foit; or by fli|)S 
OtF its roots, for thefe are perennial, 
and willlaft leveral years ; but as they 
do not put I'oitli equally tender or well 
lurnilhtd fliocts after they are grown 
old, the belt way is to raife a fupply 
of younv: plants e.cry other year. Tin 
flips of tlic winter favory will foon 
take root and f)ourifhj and they, as 
well as the plintbof this fpecie= raifed 
from feed, will endure the greatefl ccld 
of our winters, and have the mo.'l a- 
romatic fmeli and talte, when they 
are planted in a poor and dry foil. 
Wet ground is very apt to render them 
mouldy, and confequently make them 
rot. Mr. Miller has noticed fome of 
thefe plants growing upon the top of 
an old W4II, wliere t}>ey were fully ex- 
pofed to the cold, and tliey there fur- 
vived fuch fevere frofts as killed moft 
of thofe of the fame kind that were 
planted in the ground. 

The winter favory flowers in June, 
and the fummer favory in July ; but 
the feed of both ripen in the autumn, 
and at no great diltance of time fromi 
each other. 

SANDERS. [Sanalum.l There are 
three fpecies of this wood, the white, 
the yellow, and the red. The firft is 
of little value; the fecond has a plea- 
fant fmcll, and a bitterifh aromatic 
tafle, and though but little regarHed 
might be applied to valuable purpofes. 
The red is principally ufed as a co- 
louring drug. 

SAW-WORT. [Serratu.'a] There 
are feveral fuecies of this plant propa- 
gated in the gardens, and growing 
wild, fome annual and fome peren- 
nial j the former are propagated by 
feeds, and the letter by parting their 
roots. 

SAXIFRAGE. [Saxl/ragj .'j The 
common white faxifrage grows natu- 
rally in moll parts of England. The 
roots of this plant are like grains of 
corn, of a reddifh colour without, 
from which arife kidney-fhaped hairy 
Jeaves, flanding upon prt-tty long foot- 
flalks. The (talks are thick, a foot 
tigh, hairy, and furrowed ; i^efe branch 
cut from the bottom, and have a few 



SAX 

fmall leaves like thofe below, which 
fit clofe to the (talk ; the flowers ter- 
minate the (talk, growing in fmall 
clulters : they have five fmall white 
petals, incloling ten flamina and the 
two (tyles. 1 he roots and Itavcs of 
this plant are ufed in medicine. 

Theie are many fpecies of this plant 
cultivated in the gardens, and growing 
naturally in England; among them is 
reckoned the None-fc-prett), or Lon- 
don-l'ride. They are all cultivated by 
parting the roots, or by of^-fcts. 

Bu) ni Saxifkaoe. [ PimpineHa. ] 
There are three forts principally no- 
ticed by medical wiiters. 1. The large 
or white faxii:sge. 2. Two others 
fmaller; but tiity all feem to be pof- 
felfed of the fame qualities, and to 
differ only in external r.ppearanre : and 
even in this, their difference is fo in- 
condderable, that Linnaeus has joini.-l 
them into one, under the general 
name of pimpwcila. Our college, in- 
f^ead of tlie firft, ^lich has been ge- 
nerally imderl^ood as the officinal fort, 
allow either of the others (which are 
more common) to be ulcd promifcu- 
oufly. 

Tlie roots of pimpinella have a 
grateful, warm, v«ry pungent tafte, 
which is entirely extrasfted by reflified 
fpirit; in diftiilation, the mcnitruum 
arifes, leaving all that it had taken up 
from the root united into a pungent 
aromatic refin. This root promifes, 
from its fenfible qualities, to be a me- 
dicine of confiderable utility, though 
little regarded in common praftice; 
the only officinal compofnion in which 
it is an ingredient, is the pul-vh art 
ampofitui. Stahl, Hoffman, and other 
German phyficians, are extremely fond 
of it, and recommend it as an excel- 
knt ftomachic, refolvent, detergent, di- 
uretic, diaphoretic, and alexlpharmac. 
They frequently gave it, and not with- 
out fuccefs.in fcorbutic and cutaneous 
difordtrs, foulnefs of the blood and 
juices, tumours and ob(tru(£tions of 
the glands, and difeafes proceeding 
from a deficiency of the fluid fecre- 
tions in general. Boerhaave diiedts 
the ufe of this medicine in afthmatic 
and hydropic cafes, where the ftrong- 
eft refolvents are indicated ; the form 
he prefers is a watery infufion ; but 
the fpirituous tin£ture poffelfes the 
virtues of the root in much great<.=r 

P P 2 perfection, 



S C A 



S C A 



perfeflion. There is another fpecics 
of pimpinella called rigra, from its 
root being externally of a bright black 
colour, whiiit thofe of the ioregoing 
forts are whitiQi; this is remaikable 
for its yielding an tflential oil of a 
blue colour. It grows wild in fome 
parts of Germany, Swiflerland, &c. 
and is now and then met with in our 
gardens. 

Golden Saxifrage. [C/jr)/5//;/fnia»!.] 
There are two forts, one with alter- 
nate, and the other with oppot'ite 
leaves. Thefe two plants are found 
wild in feveral parts of England, but 
efpecially the h\i\, upon marlhy fpils 
and bogs, as alfo in moll fhady woods, 
and are feldom propagated in gardens, 
where, if any perfon have curiofity to 
cultivate tlicm, they mu(t be planted 
' in very moift fhady places, otherwife 
they will not thrive. They flower in 
March and April. 

. Meadow Saxifrage. See Hog's 
Fennel, 

SCAB. A difeafe incident to flieep, 
chiefly occafioned by a tedious length 
of wet weather. 

" I imagine," fays Mr. Vefey, "your 
readers will not be difpleafed if I 
fhould, witli your afllftance, commu- 
nicate to them a remedy for this dif- 
order, which I have feveral times 
tried, and ajmoft always found to an- 
fwer extremely well. 

" Some men, whom I have known 
to. breed and feed a great number of 
fheep, have been grofsly miltaken in 
their comprehenfi on of tlie nature of 
thisdiftemper, which they rafhly judged 
to be merely cutaneous ; whereas, when 
a flieep has the fcab, the blood is al- 
ways more or lefs aifeded by it ; tlieie- 
fore the outward applications, which 
are in general alone reformed to for a 
cure, do for the mcfl part more hurt 
than good, by driving in the eruption, 
and making it fix on the internals, 
thereby bccafioning the death of t^.e 
animal. 

" Now the true way to treat this 
diforder is, firft to give the animal 
fomething inwardly to drive out the 
eruption; then comes, with propriety, 
the outward application, which com- 
pletes the cure by killing the fcab. 

*' When a farmer has any of his 
flock afniiled with the fcab, let him 
3tiend to the directions which follow ; 



" Tai<c a gallon of foft well or por(i 
water, which divide into two equal 
parts ; in one of thele parts dilfolve 
eizht ounces of old haid foap ; to 
which, when it is difTolved, add two 
ounces of fpirits of hartfhorn, and fe- / 
ven ounces of common fait, with four 
ounces of roll brimllone, beat to a 
fine powder and fifted ; then take the 
other part of the water, in which put 
two ounces of tobacco leaf, and one 
of white hellebore root; boil this fe- 
cond part till you have a ftrong infu- 
fion, alter which llrain it clear from 
the leaves and roots. 

" When you have got thus far in 
the procefs, take that p<irt of the wa- 
ter, f\Ti\ mentioned, and fet it over 
the fire ; let it boil for about half an 
hour, keeping it continually flirring 
with a wooden ladle during that time ; 
in the mean time heat again the other 
part, in which the tobacco and helle- 
bore were infufed, and when it is hot, 
mix the two parts gradually together 
over the fire, keeping the mixture 
continually Hirring till it is taken off 
the fire, which fhould be in about a 
quarter of an hour; when it is quite 
cold, let it be put into a ftone bottle, 
in order to its being kept in a cool 
place for ufe. 

" Then t..ke four quarts of new 
ale or beer; put into it twelv* ounces 
of common fait, two ounces of bay 
iAt, end eight ounces of powdered ni- 
tre, together with twelve ounces of 
pounded roll brimrtone ; fet them o- 
ver a gentle fire, and wlien the ale 
boils, t::ke off the fcum ; let it boil 
for about half an hour; after which 
fet it by till it is cold, and put it into 
a ftone bottle for ufe. 

" When you are fo far prepared,- 
take one quart of ale, fet it on the 
fire ; mix into it by degrees, three 
ounces of fiour ot brimflone; when 
it is juft ready to boil take it off the 
fire, and let it ftand to cool ; and 
when it is only blood-warm, give this 
quantity inwardly to three flieep, 
whicli is to be repeated every ftccnd 
day till they iiave had thite dofes. 
This \vill drive out the difoider, when 
the firrt mixture is to be rubbed on 
thediftempered parts; and two days 
afterwards the fecond, and fo alter- 
nately for about eight or ten day?, till 
the cure is efiefted :* Sometimes twc 
rubbii'g* 



S C A 



S C A 



ruhbings will be fufficienl. I muft 
obferve, that all tliele mixtures will 
be befl boiled in well glazed earthea 
or iron pots." 

" The two greateft enemies the 
ftieep," fays ano ther ingenious gen- 
tkman, " or atleafi their wool (which 
is the moft valuable part of thenr)) 
have, are the fcab and fiy, J believe 
they dertroy more wool than all the 
other difeafes incident to that animal. 

" Mr. Vefey has given us an ap- 
proved remedy for the fcab, and at tiie 
fame time enters fomewhat mto the 
niture of the diftemper. For my own 
part, I have not prcfumpticn enough 
to look into firft caufes ; fecondary 
cnes are all J aim at j I always took 
nature to be a wife inttru£ior, and the 
fureft guide j but if we will hobble 
out of the way ourfclvcs, fhe is not 
to blame. 

" I agree with Mr. Vefey, that in 
this, and every other diftemper a fheep 
labours under, the blood is more or 
Itfj affcfled and difturbed ; which dif- 
turbance, if I am not miftaktn, the 
faculty call a fever; therefore it muft 
be always confidered, that a fever is 
no more than a rtruggle of nature to 
get rid of fome enemy in the blood, 
by throwing it out byHbme of the out- 
lets of tlie body, namely, by fweat, 
urine, or flool ; or upon the furface 
of the fkin ; and then fhe feems to 
fiy, I have thrown the diftemper out 
to your view, and there dertroy it by 
proper applications. 

" It furely is not fcab until it is 
t'.rov.'ii out upon the fkin ; and wl.en 
jr is thrown out, what avails giving 
internal remedies, to do that wl.ich 
nature has done before .' If it be out, 
therss your ailment ; and I think, 
it li an axiom in phyfic, that wr.en 
a diftemper is once known, it is 
f.alf cured ; if it \i only coming out, 
my advice would be, not todirtuib 
nature, who is always a£ling for our 
Food, in a wifer and better manner 
than we c«n do ourfclves ; (he fome- 
timvs, indeed, is too weak for her of- 
fice, and fcmetimts too ftrong ; in the 
one cafe flie is to be properly afllfltd, 
and in the other, prudently rellrained ; 
and when we do niore or lefs, the ef- 
fects are generally fatal. I hope this 
wl.'lfatJify Mr, V:i(^.y, that he is not 



altogether In tlie right, any more thsn 
hi« neiehbours. 

" To cure an illnefs with a few 
medicines, is as comnitndable, as to 
fay a great deal in a few words. One 
grt.it obft?.cle to Ml. Vefey's treat- 
ment of fheep with fcab, is its being 
too compound, trouhlefome, and la- 
borious, ietting afide the ejcpence, and 
where there are a great number of 
ftieep, hardly to be praftifed. I would 
have all remedies tor the ailments 
of fheep be as I'i.nple as polfiiilm 
and to •^e obtained and prepared 
with as little trouble; for certain I 
am, v<'!ien it is otlierwife, many 
will let their flocks eo neglefted, 
or at beft leave tiiem to a flovenly 
fhepherd, who knows very little of the 
matter; and when clip-day comes, 
when the poor creatures are cut of 
their wool, (if they had any on befoie) 
what a fight prefents iifelf to view ! 
moft part of their (kins being one 
continued fcab, and other parts eat 
quite through, and deep into the flefh, 
by the maggot : This I have fetn at 
clip-day,' and may fpeak it ; hut what 
muft 1 alledge it was owing to ? Sorry 
am I to fay, to the over credulity of 
the mafter, who thought he had a 
fhepherd who knew ev;r) thing; but 
the event proved the ccr.traiy. 

" You muft not be furprized when 
I f^y, what will deflroy the fly wi.'l 
alfo cu'^e the fcab, with little or no 
alterations; mercury is a mortal foe 
to both ; and the remedy for the fiy is 
as follows : 

" Take of corrofive fublimate, half 
an ounct ; di/Tolve it in t^vo quaits of 
rainwater; to whic!) add a gill of fj>i- 
rits of turpentine : Tiiis is the whole 
of it, wliich mult be ufed in the fol- 
Jowinfc manner : 

" \V!ien tlie fheep Is flruck, the 
fhepherd muft make a circle round the 
maggots with fome of the w^ter, by 
dropping it out of a bottle; tliis pre- 
vents them getting away, for they 
will not come near the water; then 
he muf^ fhred cr cpei the wccl within 
the circle, and drop a few drops of the 
water aninne them, and nib them a- 
bout with his fint;er, and there leave 
them, for they will all die piefently. 

" 1 fpeak this from my own certain 

knowledg'?, and many otliers in thrs 

part 



S C A 



S C A 



part of the country (Iflc of Ely) can 

do tilt f.ime. 

" Tx) a quart of the above water I 
add a pint of the fimple lime-water of 
the London Difpenfatory j and I de- 
clare it from txperienc, there is no 
more certain cure for the fcab than it ; 
J am fure it is the cleaned, the foprieft 
prepared, and w lien To," he cheapefJj 
wliich are "an inducement, I think, 
fufiicient to have every countryman 
make ufe of it." Mujium Kujlkum, 
vol, ir. p. 369. 

SCABIOUS. The name of a flow- 
ering Ihrub cultivated in moft pleafure 
gardens. 

All the ftirubby forts of fcahious 
may be propagated by cuttings, which 
nay he taken oft" during any of the 
fiimmer months, and fhould be planted 
in a (liady border, and duly watered in 
rfry weather, which will promote their 
taking root ; and then they may be 
potted and placed in a Ihady fuuatioa, 
till they have taken new root, after 
■which time they may be placed a- 
jnongd other hardy exotic plants, in a 
iheltered iituation, where they may re- 
main until the end of Oftober, when 
they muft be moved into flielter. In 
fome favourable feafons thefe plants 
will produce good feeds in England, 
fo that the plants may be raifcd fron\ 
thefe, by fowing them in an open bor- 
(der of li!;ht earth about the middle of 
Ularch -y and if the fpring fhould prove 
very dry, it will be nectiTary to water 
the ground novv-and-then, which will 
forward tlie vegetation of the feed, fo 
that the plants wiii appear in about 
three weeks after the feeds are fown, 
"When they come up, thty mull be 
Sept clear from weeds, and in dry 
weather duly watered j and when they 
are (1;rong enough to tranfplant, tliey 
fliould be planted in pots, and mn- 
naged in the fame manner as thofe 
plants which are propagated by cut- 
tings. 

All tli€ forts of fcabious continue a 
long time in flower, for which they 
aie regarded ; for there is no very great 
beauty in many of tiieir flowers; but 
as moft of the hardy forts produce 
flowers near three m.onths fucceflively, 
fo they may be allowed a place in the 
fcoiders of^large gardens, becaufe they 
require very little care to cultivate 
|h(;in. And as the fiirubby kinds coa- 



tjnne m flower moft part of the year, 
fo they make an agreeable variety a- 
mcngl\ hardy exotic plants in the 
winitr. 

SCAMMONY, [ Zcamm'irtum. 7 
Scammony is a concrete joice extracted 
from the roots of a large climbing 
plant growing in the Afiatic Turkey. 
The befl comes from Aleppo, in light, 
fpongy maflVs, eafily friable, of a fhi- 
ning afu colour verging to black j 
when powdered, of a light grey or 
whfiifh colour: An inferior fort i& 
brought from Smyrna, in more com- 
paft ponderous pieces, of a darker co- 
lour, and full of fand and other impu- 
rities. This juice is chiefly of the re- 
finous kind : rcdUfied fpirit diffolves 
five ounces out of fix, the remainder 
is a mucilaginous fubftance mixed with 
drofs : proof fpirits totally diffolve it, 
the impurities only being left. It has 
a faint unpleafant fmell ; and a bitter- 
ifl), fomewhat acrimonious tafte. 

Scammony is an efficacious and 
firong purgative. Some have con- 
demned it as unfafe, and laid fundry 
ill qualitissto its charge; the principal 
of which is, that its operation is uncer- 
tain, a full dole proving fometimcs inef- 
fectual, whilft at others a much fmaller 
one occafions dar.^erous hypercatharfcs 
This ditr'ertnce however is owing en- 
tirely to the difTerent circumflanccs of 
tlie patient, and not to any ill quality, 
or irregularity of operation, of the me- 
dicine ; where the inteftines are lined 
with an excelTive load of mucus, the 
fcammony paflTts through, without ex- 
erting itfclf upon them ; where the 
natural mucus is deficient, a fmalt 
dofe of tills or any other reflnous ca- 
thartic, irritates and inflames. Many 
have endeavoured to abate tlie force of 
this drug; and correct its imaginary 
virulence, by expofing it to the fume 
of fulphur, diflblving it in acid juices, 
and the like ; but this could do no 
more than deltroy as it were a part of 
the medicine, without making any al- 
teration in the reit. Scammony in 
fubflance, judicioufly managed, (\ands 
not in reed of any corredor ; if tritu- 
rated with fugar or with almonds, 
as is fiequently recommended for 
other refinous purgatives, it becomes 
fufficiently fafe and mild in operation. 
It may likewife be conveniently dif- 
folved, by trituration, in a flrong de- 
coAica 



SCR 



SEE 



cof>ion of liquorice, ard then poured 
off from the feces. The college of Wir- 
temberg affures ui, lh»t by tliis treat- 
ment it becomes mildly purgative, 
without being attended with gripes, 
or other inconveniencies ; and that it 
likewifc proves inoffenlive to the pa- 
late. Tlie common dofc of fcammony 
is from three to twelve grains, 

SCORDIUM. S(efy^ieriizituAV- 

DER. 

Scorpion-Grass. Sit Cater- 
pillar. 
SCORZON'ERA. 5«fi/>frj-GRAss. 

SCRATCHES, A diftemper inci- 
dent to the lietls of horles. 

It has fo much affiruty with the 
gre.ifc, and is fo often a concomitant 
wirli that diieafe, that the method of 
coring the fcratches may be felefted 
from that article. 

Tke parts a/Feded fhould be firft co- 
vered with the linfted and turnip 
pouJtice, having a little common tur- 
pentine addetl to rehx thevefTtls; the 
green ointment msy then b€ applied 
to pror.-.ote the difcharge, when the 
fcratches may be dried up with the 
ointments and waflies recommended 
in tliat article. 

It is belt afterwards to keep the 
heels Topple, and fofiening with cur- 
riers dubbing, which is made of oil 
and tallow. This will keep the hide 
from cracking, and be as good a pre- 
I'ervati-ve as it is to leather; and by 
ufing it often before exercife, will pre- 
vent the fcratches, if csre be taken to 
wafli tlie heels with warm water, 
when the horfe comes in. When they 
^rove obftinate, and the fores are deep, 
life the following ; but if any cavities 
or hollow places are formed, they 
iliould firrt be laid open, for no foun- 
dation can be laid for healing, till you 
can drefs to the bottom. 

Take Venice turpemine four oun- 
ces, quickfilver one ounce; in- 
corporate well together by rub- 
bing fome time, and then add bo- 
rey and flieep'sfuet, of each two 
ounces. 

Anoint with this once or twice a 
<3ay ; and if the horfe is full or flelhy, 
you mud bleed and purge ; and if the 
blood is in a bad (late, tlie alteratives 
muft be given to reftify it, 

SCULL-CAP. [Scu!e/Iaria.] There 
«re feveral fpecies of this plant grow- 



ing 7n dlfTcrcr.t parts of Unnjpt aT\A 
America. Tlicy are all propagated 
by feeds. 

SCURVY'-GRASS, [ Ccchleana. ] 
Scurvy-giaf> is a pungent llimulatinj^ 
medicine; capable of dilTolving vil'cid 
juices, opening obftrudtions of the 
vifccra and the more diftant glands, 
and promoting the fluid feoretions- 
it is particularly celebrated in fcurvics, 
and is the principal herb employed in 
thefe kinds of diforders in the noi thern 
counnies. It is propagated by fowine; 
feeds in July in a m^Irt fhady fpot oi' 
grourvd. The Sea Scurvy-Grafs is alfo 
iifcd in medicine; but this grows in 
HI the falt-marfties in Kent and EfTex, 
wlicre the fait water overflows it ainioft 
every tide, and can rarely be made to 
groviJ in a garden, or at leafl to lalt 
longer there than one year ; but it be- 
ing eahly gathered in the places before 
mentioned, the markets are fupplied 
from thence by the herb-women, who 
make it their bufinefs to gather herbs. 

The little Welch fcurvy-grafs is a 
biennial plant, and may he prefei ved 
In a garden, if planted in a ftrong foil 
and (hadyfituation. This plant grows 
plentifuHy in Mufcovy. as alfo in Da- 
vis's Srreights, 

SCYTHE, SiTH^, or Stthp, The 
inftrumeni nfed in mowing, being a 
crooked blade joined at right-angles 
to a long pole. 

SEA BUCKTHORN, 5ee 5«j 
Buck thorn, 

SEACRIM. SceRAGv.'ORT, 

SEAM. Tallow, gteafe, hog's-lard. 

Seam of drn. A quaiter, or eight 
bofhels. 

Seam tf fVocd. A horfe-load of 
wood. 

SEARCHER, See Borer. 

SEAVE3. Ruflies. 

S,^AVY Ground. Ground over- rt'tj 
with rulhes, 

SEED, the product of a plant, where- 
by the fpecies is propagated. 

The choice of tiie feed intended 
to be fowed is an objefl of greater im- 
portance than many farmers feem to 
imagine. It is not fufficient thit the 
finelt grains be chofen for this purpofs, 
unlefs they are likewife very clean. 
Such wheat is not difficult to be had 
from land cultivated according to ti»e 
principles of the new hufbandry ; bi;t 
we fddom firxl corn entiielj' free fronj 



SEE 



SEE 



Tfeds of weeds whea ic had been ra'.fcd 
ill the common way. 

It !■> natural to fuppofe, that the 
grains ol ftintcd and fickly corn neccf- 
<ari)y partake of the wc/ikly difpofition 
of the plant which produced them, and 
that thtir produdtions cannr' be fo 
fine as tliofe which grow from i;n; feeds 
of ftrong and healthy plants. For this 
reafon Mr. Tull advifcs to take the feed 
corn from a richer foil than that in 
which it is to be fowed,and rather from 
ground in perfefi liith, ihan from land 
which has been k-fs carefully cultiva- 
ted. This feems to be very right (tho' 
the contrary opinion is almoft gene- 
rally received) bccaufe more may rea- 
fonably be expected froin the produc- 
tions of a fine good feed, full of vi- 
gour and weil conditioned, than from 
a poor weak plant. 

M. de Chateauvieux, who often 
fowed with no other intention than 
merely to try, for the benefit of man- 
kind, at what time, in what manner, 
and wliat condition, it is beft to fow 
wheat, found that this grain fprouted 
pretty well even when fowed fo green 
that it hid net yet loft its milky qua- 
lity ; but tiiirki it much more advife- 
able to low none but vvhat is thoroughly 
ripe ; becaufe tlie feed has then at- 
tained its full perfttf^ion, from whence 
we may moft certainly expedt the bcft 
and (lror.[;e!'t plants. 

"The v\,'!ieat, fays. he, which has 
been reaped in a warm dry year, feems 
to me fitter for fowing, than that 
which has been gathered in a cold wi:t 
fcafon: for in fiich a time as this iaft, 
all the produif^ions of the earth are Isfs 
good ; their talte is lefs favoury ; and 
as that corn in particular In which 
tiiere is mofl molflure, is moft difficult 
to keep, 1 infer from thence that the 
formation of its grain mult be Icf** 
perfect. I (hpuld therefore prefer wheat 
. a year old,^j3rovided the year it was 
gathered in was v/arm and Cry, to that 
wiiich may have been juft gathered in 
too rainy a feafon ; for the fame reafon, 
1 always choofe for fowi.ig, wheat of 
r.iy high grounds, rather than that 
which has been produced in flats. The 
benefit accruing from all this care 
may, perliaps, not be extremely great; 
but at the fame time it dees not colt 
any thing. Let us do in Agriculture 
what ia done ia all ma&ufac^ures, 



where the very fmallcfl profits, the 
very lealt favings, are not neglciQed, 
Thofe fmall articles, often repeated, 
make large fums in the long run, and 
arc a real gain. 

" Another thing of greater confe- 
qucnce firfl made known to me by 
chance, but fince confirmed by re- 
peated expetiments always attended 
with the fame fuccefs, I Hrongly re- 
commend as extremely ferviceable to 
the firit fprouiing ci the feed. In my 
experimental fowings, 1 commonly 
ufcd wheat taken from tiie heap in the 
granary; and likcwife frequently, corn 
picked out of the ears the moment be- 
fore I fowed it. I counted exa^ly 
the grains of both forts, and fuppofc 
that few will think there could be any 
difference in their produdtions. Yet 
1 four.d a confiderable one. What 
was picked out of the ears always rofe 
extremely v,ellj fcarce a grain of it 
ever miflcd ; wl'creas numbers of 
tbofe which were taken from the heap, 
never fprouted at all. I did not per- 
ceive this difference at firft; but at 
lalt it ftruck me. I relate the fa£l as 
it is, without pretending to account 
for the caufe of this difrcr-nce, which 
would lead me into too long a digref- 
fion. The experimvni itfeif may be of 
real ufe, by Aiewing us, that inflead 
of thra(hing th& wheat intended for 
feed at any time, witliout diflinftion, 
it ought not to be thrafhed till a very —■ 
few days, at moft two or three, befoie 
it is fowed. A few hands will be able 
to fupply the feeds-men with as much 
as they will want: nor will this me- 
thod, which may be a means of faving 
fomewhat in the feed, be attended 
with any extraordinary expence. 

" Perhaps too this praflice may be 
attended with a very valuable advan- 
tage. I have not yet made the trials 
neceffary to fatisfy myfelf of what I 
imagine ; but my defire to, be of fer- . 
vice to the public induces me to nien- 
tion it, that the lovers of agriculture 
may refiedt upon it, and try fuch 
experiments as will clear up my con- 
jeflures. 

" Thrashing the feed only juft before 
It Is fowed may poffibly, in fome mea- 
fure, or perhaps entirely, prevent the 
caufe o f fmut in wheat. By this I ' '^^ 
mean, that the feed which has not been £/ 
mixed with fmutty corn, or any way ^ 
infected 



/<^- 



SEE 



SEE 



mixed with fmutty corn, or any way 
ini"ci5*ed by its black powder, will be 
e::£r:;pt from that dirtemper. Not that 
I take llack powder to be ahfolutely 
tlic original caufc of tliis diAcmper in 
corn ; but I briievc i'. is very capable 
o{ communicating it to grains which 
are fourd. 

" That nothing may he negledled 
wliich can be c: any I'ervicc to the 
feed, great care ought to be taken in 
ilirafiiing tlie corn, efptciaily in the 
manner that bufinefs i» commonly 
performed, witii flails, upon the barn 
floor : for 3 gieai number of grains 
are frequently fo mucli bruifed thereby, 
ihit it is inipolTihle they ftiuuld ever 
grow. If the wheat thus thralhed for 
fctd is not thoroughly dry and hard, 
the mifchief is itill grearer; much 
more of it being then abfolutcJycruflicd 
by the flail. 

" As fowing in drills requires lefs 
feed than is ufcd in the common me- 
thod, it will be the eafier to execute 
there an operation which might be too 
long and troublefome for fo great a 
quantity as 'n ufcd in ths old way. 
'I he method which I advife, and which 
I have praftjfed, is this. Let one or 
two beams, two feet and a half, or 
ihiee feet iljick, be laid a crcfs the 
barn floor : let the thrafhers itand on 
each fide of the beam, and take out 
of loofe fheafs of wheat, one of which 
Ihould be placed behind every man, a 
handful a: a time, and give it two or 
three flrokes againft the beam. This 
will bring out a great deal of grain, 
which is to be rtferved for feed. The 
ears thus fliaken may be bundled up 
again, and afterwards thralhed cut 
with the flail, for other ufcs. This 
method is not fo tedious as fome may 
imagine: we are fure that not a grain 
Is bruifed ; and thofe aie the moft per- 
fect which drop out thus. I think I 
may compare this operation with what 
is done in the making of wine, where 
the firit running is always the higheft 
flavoured and bti'l." 

Another excellent way to. fcj-erate 
I the fullclt, and confequentiy htavicil 
grains, whicli are undcubtediy the 
fittefl for feed, from thofs which are 
of lefs value for that purpofe, and at 
the fame time to clear tliem from many 
fteAs of wttds, U, to make a (lout 

Vol. II. 



man, with a broad wooden QioveJ, 
throw the coin with all his force to- 
wards an oppofite corner of the barn, 
or rather a large boarded hall, which 
generally is flttcit for this work- All 
the light, fmall, fhrivelkd grain, unfit 
for fowing, and the feeds of ccckle, — 
darnel, ice. not being fo heavy as the 
found folid corn, will fall Ihort, and 
lie nearefl to the man who throws 
them ; while fuch as are large, plump, 
and weighty, out-flying all the reft, 
are feparated widely, and may eafily 
be gathered up. Experience will (hew 
the valt advantages of fowing feed thus 
chofen. » 

The ufe of rteeps was introduced » *.'^/tV// 
very early into hufbandry, not only as J^-//^ t)./., 
a means of preferving corn from fcve- ^«'- 
ral didcmpers to which it is fubjeft,cv.//''i^// • 
but alfo with a view to render the feed *" 

more fruitful. That fome of them have 
fometimes anfwered the former of thefe 
intentions is undeniable: but with re- 
gard to the latter, much (Ironger and 
oftner repeated evidences than any that 
have yet been produced, are (till wanted 
to confirm their boailed e(ficacy. Wc 
(hall however give a concife accounc 
of fome of the mofl famous of both 
kinds ; with this previous obfervation, 
that even fuch of them as have noc 
fucceeded in feme cafes, through caufes 
perhaps unknown to us, may pofllbly 
do well in others, when tried with 
properjudgment, and attention. Ex- 
periments of this kind (hould by all 
means be continued on a double ac- 
count; firfl, to take off a prejudice 
whicli feems to gain ground, though 
it be not founded on any rational prin- 
ciple; and next, to be well aiTured 
whether tiiefe preparations do, or do 
not, produce any fenfible effef}. Ex- 
periments leidcm prove ufelefs to care- 
ful accurate obfervers. If they do not 
always anfwer the end prcpofed, they 
at leart fo/r.etimes lead the way to o- 
ther important difcoveries. 

The Rom«ns had their lees of oil, 
deccflion of cyprcfs leaves, juice of 
lioufc-lcck, &:c. on which they have 
betiowed full as n>ucii convncr.daticn 
as they merit. Lord Bacon feems to 
have been the firll who paid any at- 
tention to th:s fubjsdi in England : but 
he has only pointed out the path to 
others : nor dj I knew ar y author 
Q <i who 



SEE 



SEE 



Virho has yet given us a fet of experi- 
meius with iliis view, long enough 
continued abfolutely to determine 
what effefts fome kird of llceps may 
have towards rendering grain more 
fruitful. 

With repaid to the fee'ls of plants 
fown in the kitchen-garden, allot them 
Ihould be gathered in dry weather, 
when there i"; not any moidure upon 
them ; and the belt way to preftrve 
them is, to hang them up in hags, in 
a dry room, where vermin cannot 
come at them. The temperature of 
this place fhould be moderate } lell 
either too much warmth, or a too 
ftrong current of air, fliould make 
them dry, and confeqiiently decay, 
fooner than they would otherwife do ; 
and at the rami time care muft be ta- 
ken not to exclude the air totally from 
them; it having been repeatedly ex- 
perienced, that feeds kept long in bot- 
tles clcfely Aojiijcd have entirely loft 
the power of growing. They will 
keep longeft in their pods, when they 
can be fo laid up, becaufe thofe cover- 
ings not only defend them from the in- 
juries of the outward air, but, fo long 
as they are not disjoined from them, 
continue to fupply them with a degree 
of nourilhment which lielps to main- 
tain them in a plump flate, fit for ve- 
getation. The feed of all foft fruits, 
fuch as cucumbers, melons. Sec. are 
of courfe excepted from this general 
rule; for they muft be well cleanfed 
from their furrounding pulp, the rot- 
ting of which would otherwife foon 
corrupt them. Thcfs of melons in 
particular, are fo far benefited by be- 
ing kept in a warmei' fiate than would 
fuit any others, that the phnts pro- 
duced from them are thereby rendered 
the lefs luxuriant, and therefore more 
fruitful : for whicii reafon it is that 
iTiany people carry them in an inner 
pocket of their breeches for f;x weeks 
or two montlis before they fow them, 
in order to exhale part of their moi- 
fture ; and in effeft, this will weaken 
ti)em as much as two years keeping 
them in the common way. 

Thofe feeds which fwim upon the 
furface of water, when they are put to 
that trial of their gocdnefs-, fhouid be 
rcicdled for fowlng; becaufe, though 
many of them will grew, they never 



produce fo good plants, or fofine fruit, 
as the fuller, plumper, and mote per- 
fe£l ones, which fink to the bottom. 

The age at v.hich it is beft to fovr 
the feeds of the plants before treated 
ot, and the time to wliich they will 
keep good, are thus afcertained by 
Mr. Miller, after many years experi- 
ence and very accurate obfervation: — 
The feeds of afparagus, bafil, beans, 
beet, borage, capficum, carrots, cc- 
Icri, chervil, crclfes, endive, fennel, 
finocchia, hyflop, kidney-beans, la- 
render, leeks, lentils, marjoram, ma- 
rigolds, onions, parfley, parfneps, 
peas, purflain, radifties, favory, fkir- 
rcts, fpinnage, thyme, and turncps, 
are beft fown the firft fpring ificrthey 
have been faved j and indeed aiany of 
them will not grow if they are kept 
lon;;;er. 

Thofd of cabbages, colliflowers, en- 
dive, lavender, lettuce, muftaid, and 
forrel, will not be the worfe for keep- 
ing two years, if they are well pre- 
ferved ; though all of thefe are equally 
good for ufe the firft year. 

The feeds of cabbages, cucumber?, 
lettuces, melons, and favoys, will 
grow very well at the end of three 
years, if they have been properly faved 
and kept. Some of them, and parti- 
cularly thofe of cucumbers and melons, 
are generally reckoned beft when 
they are three years old ; becaufe, 
when they are new, the plants pro- 
duced by them will grow too vigorous, 
and yield but a fmall quantity of fruit. 
However, none of thefe feeds fliould 
be kept longer than four or five years, 
though they will grow at the end cf 
nine or ten : but then their plants will 
be weak, and their fruit fmall. 

The feeds of fennel will frequently 
remain in the earth a whole year, efpe- 
cially if they are fov\'n in the fpring; 
fo that whenever the plants do not 
come up the firft year, the ground 
fnould be left undifturbed till the fol- 
lowing fpring, except only keeping it 
clear liom weeds, and the plants will 
then appear. 

SEEDLINGS. Young plants which 
have not been removed from the beds 
where they have been fown. It is alio 
ufed to ditlingulfh plants raifed from 
feeds from thofe of the fame kind 
which 



SEN 



SEN 



wlilch have been propagated by layers 
or cuttings. 

SEED-LIP, SEiD-LEAP|9r Seed- 
J. Lop. a feed-balket, or the vcflTel in 
'^Z whici) the fower carries his feed, in 
^ order to fow it. i '•- / •■ y ^ . : .•» .> 
7 . SEELING. A term ufed by horfe- 
*■'' dealers to imply the time when a horfc 
begins to have white eye-hiows ; that 
is, when there grows on that part 
about the hreadth of a farthing, a par- 
cel of white hair, mixed with thofe of 
his natural colour. Tliis is a mark of 
Oid age, a hone never feeling before he 
is fourteen, and always before he is 
lixteen years old. 

SELF - HEAL, [Prunella.'] This 
plant grows wild in meadows and paf- 
ture grounds, and produces thick 
fpikes of purplifli flowers during the 
latter part of the fummer. It has an 
herbaceous roughifti tafte : and hence 
Hands recommended in hemorrhages 
and alvjne fluxes : it has been princi- 
pally celebrated as a vulnerary, whence 
its name; and in gargarifms for aph- 
thz, and inflammations of the fauces. 

It is eafily propagated by feeds 
fown in autumn. There are feveral 
fpecies brought from different parts 
of Europe and America, but all hardy 
enough to bear the open air of England. 

SEGGRUM. Ragwort, 

SEMBRADOR, an inftrumentufed 
in Spain for fovving corn, 

SEMIFISTULAR Floivin, arethofe 
whofe upper part refembles a pipe cut 
off obliquely. 

SEMlf LOSCULOUS F'.oroirs, are 
thofe whofe petals are hollow in their 
lower part; but In their upper flat, 
and continued in the fhape of a tongue. 

SEMINARY. A feed plat, or place 
allotted for raifing plants from feed, 
and keeping them till they are fit to 
be removed into the garden or nurfery. 

SENA. The leaves of a fhrubby plant 
cultivated in Perfia, Syria, & Arabia ; 
from whence they are brought, dried & 
picked from theftalks, to Alexandria 
in Egypt ; and thence imported into 
Europe. They are of an oblong figure, 
fharp pointed at the ends, about a 
quarter of an inch broad, zn6 not a 
full inch in length, of a lively yellow- 
jfh green colour, a faint not very difa- 
f reeable fmell, and a fubacrid, bitter- 
',?", naufeous tafte. Some inferior 



forts are brought from Tripoli and 
other places: thefe may eafily be dif- 
tinguiihed by their being either nar- 
rower, longer, and fharper pointed ; 
or larger, broader, and round pointed, 
, with fmall prominent veins ; or large 
and obtufc, of a frefh green colour, 
without any yellow caft. 

Sena is a very ufeful cathartic, ope- 
rating mildly, and yet effedlually ; and, 
ifjudiciofluy dofed and managed, rarely 
occafioning the ill confequences which 
too frequently follow the exhibition 
of the ftronger purges. The only in- 
conveniences complained of in this 
drug are, its being apt to gripe, a^d 
its naufeous flavour. 

Bjfiard Sena. See Cassia. 

Bladder S e N a . Ste Bladdek Sena. 

yoinud Podded Sena, [CoronUla.] 
This is a fhrubby plant of which there 
are feveral fpecies differing in height, 
fome rifing about two feet from the 
ground, others trailing en the ground, 
and one rifing to the height of five or 
fix feet. Seme are annuals, and others 
perennial, the latter as well as the for- 
mer are propagated by feeds. 

Scorpion Sena, yointed Podded Scr.M, 

SENGREEN. Houfeleek. 

SENEKA ROOT. Scnecka, raf- 
tlefnake root ; the root of a fpecies of 
polygala, which grows fpontaneoufly 
in Virginia, and bears the winters of 
our own climate. This root is ufually 
about the thicknefs of the little finger, 
varioufly bent and contoited, and ap- 
pears as if compofed of joints, whence 
it is fuppofed to refemble the tail of 
the animal whofe name it bears : a 
kind of membranous margin runs on 
each fide, the whole length of the root. 
Its tarte is at firft acid, afterwards 
very hot and pun;^ent. 

This root is not at prefect much 
known in the fhops. The Senegaro 
Indians are faid to prevent the fatal 
effeds which follow from the bite of 
the rattle-fnake, by giving it inter- 
nally ; and applying it externally to 
the wound. It has of late been flrongly 
recommended in pleurifies, peripneu- 
monies, and other inflammatory dif- 
tempers ; in thefe cafes, Lemery, du 
Hamel, and Juflleu, experienced its 
good fuccefs. (fee the French memoirs 
for the years 1738, 1739.) Its more 
immediate eflfefts are thofe of a diu- 
Q_ 1 1 retis. 



SEP 



SEP 



telle, diaphoretic, and cainnrtic ; 
fomeiimes it proves emetic : the two 
laft operations may be occafionally 
prevented, by giving the root in fmall 
dofes, along with aromatic fimple wa- 
ters, as that of cinnamon. The ufual 
dofu of the powder is thirty grains cr 
more. 

Some iiave likewlfe employed this 
root in liydropic cafes, and not with- 
out fuccefs ; Bouvart (in tiie memoirs 
above-mentioned, 1744.) relates ex- 
amples of its occafioning a plentiful 
evacuation by flocl, urine, and per- 
fpiration, and by this means removing 
thcdifeafe, after the common diuretics 
and hydragogues had failed : where 
this medicine operates as a catliartic, 
it generally proves fuccefsful : if it 
ads by liquifying the blood and juices, 
•without occafioning a due difcharge. 
It fhould either be abilained from, or 
alTifted by proper additions. 

Gum Seneca. This is brought 
from the coafl of Guinea, and ufually 
mixed with, and commonly fold in 
the fhops for Gum Arabic. 

SENSITIVE PLANT, [nnr^ofa.] 
There are feveral kinds more or lefs 
irritable of this uncommon plant, na- 
tives of the Weft-India iilands, and 
the warmer parts of America ; fome of 
ihem are annual, and others perennial. 
They require the f^me general manage- 
ment with other exotics of a warm 
climate ; under this genus of plants 
are ranged the difTerent fpecies of 
Acacia. 

SEPTEMBER. The ninth month 
of the year. 

ProduEls of thi K'ilchir.-Gardtn. 

Cabbages, carrots, artichokes, parf- 
neps, potatoes, fhallots, onions, leeks, 
garlick, cellery, endive, cabbage let- 
tuce of feveral forts, fcorzonera, fal- 
fafy, muflirooms, cucumbers for pick- 
ling, melons, kidney-beans, rounci- 
val peas, marrowfat peafe, garden 
beans planted late, beets, tnrneps, ra- 
difhes, large rooted parfley, black and 
white Spanifh radi.'hes, fprouti from 
the early cabbage ftalks ; and for 
foups, chervil, forrel, tomatos, gourds, 
fqualhes, burnet, cardoon, chard 
beets, parflcy, origanum : as alfo 
thyme, bafil, marjoram, hyflTop, win- 
ter fa very, and all forts of young fal- 
l»: herbs, 



Fruifs in Prime, or yet lajling. 
Peaches; the niv/ttc, Portugil 
peach, belle-garde or gallandt-, rof- 
fanna, pourpree tardive, purple albergc, 
old Newin;jton, teton de Venus, pavy 
ropal, admirable, monAruous pavy of 
Pc.mpone, Catharine, rambouiilettc, 
malacoton. 

Plums J white pear plum, bonum 
magnum, green gage, icine claude, 
perdrigon, St. Catharine, and impera- 
trice, damfons, and bullace. 

Pears ; poir de Prince, autumn ber- 
gamot, fwifi bergamot, brute bonne, 
beurre-rouge, Doycni e or St, Michael, 
verte-lon^ue, mouiilc bouche d'au- 
tomr.e, fummer boncretien, rouflelet 
de reins. 

Grapes ; the chaflclas, white muf- 
cadine, red mufcadine, black, red, 
and wliiie moriilon, currant or corinth 
grape, parfley-leaved grape, black, 
red, and white frontiniacs, Warner's 
red hamburgh, black hamburgh, St. 
Peter or Hefperian grape, oilcans, 
m.ilmfey, miller grape, damafk grape, 
pearl grape, party-coloured grape, with 
ibme others. 

Several forts of figs, walnuts, fil- 
berts, hazle-niits; and, againfi north 
walls, fome cui rants and morella cher- 
ries, melons, quinces, medlars, laza- 
roles. 

Apples ; embroidered apple, pear- 
main, golden rennet, red calville, 
white calville, courpendu, aromatick 
pippin, rennet grife, catiliead, quince 
apple, fpice apple, with fome others. 

In the bark-bed, the ananas, or pine- 
apple. 

Plants in Flrtoer, 

Annual flock- gilliflowers, fcabi- 
oufes, f.veet fultan, marvel of Peru, 
female balfamlne, china pinks, Afri- 
cans, French marigolds, hollyhocks, 
chryfanthemums, caplicums, lupines 
of feveral forts, fweet fcented peas, 
Tangier peas, double ptarmica or 
fntezwort, true fafFron, cartiiamus or 
baftard fafFion, autumnal crocufes, 
pyclsrnens, colchicum, autumnal hy- 
acinth, afters of ftvt-ral forts, five or 
lix forts of golden-rod, double fope- 
worr, double camomile, larkfpurs, 
tree primrofe, polyanthufes, fpider- 
wort, auriculas, fnap-dragon, Venus 
looking-glafs, Venus navelwort, candy 
tuft, Cliina ftarwcrt, ox-eye, helian- 
themumsj 



SEP 



S E R 



Ihcn'.um^, heliotropiiim, lycl^nifes, 
caniji.inul.ts, autumnal ^rntian', fcar- 
iet bean, oriental perficaria, ftramo- 
niuni5, folanums, aikektngi with large 
blue rlowcrs, fantolina^, tliryfoconria, 
chclone with white and red flowers, 
poliums, amaranthoides, xeranthe- 
mums, jaceas, oriental mallow, lava- 
tera, dwarf annual Irock, ketmia vefi- 
csria, fevcral forts cf fun-flower. e!i- 
chryfums, eupatoriums, hearts-ea'e, 
red garden valerian, catanance quo- 
rundam, ruyfchiana, rudbeckij, fil- 
pliium, lir^c blue aconite, wholfome 
wolffbane,cerintl)e, alylTon fruticofum, 
alyflbides, diantliera, hydrangea, te- 
tra;;rnoth;ca, nionarda, ambrofia, old 
mar.'s he;id pink, anonifes two or three 
forts, fc!irt;p!iuliriav, dodartia, ecM- 
ums, buglofs of three or four kinds, 
convolvulus of feveral forts, double 
and fingle Indian naHurtium, with 
fome others. 

llnrdy Trees end Shrubs now in Flnver. 
fafmine, monthly rofe, muflc rofe, 
paifion-flower, arbutus, pomegranate 
with double flowers, flirub cinquefoil, 
mallow tree, althae frutex, ketmia fy- 
riaca, Jaururtinus, honeyfuckle, fror- 
pion fena, agnus callus, rhus cf feve- 
ral forts, cejallrus, medicago frutef- 
csns, fhrubby St. Johnfwort, Itea, 
clethra, kalmia, azalea, dwarf medlar 
from Crete, SpaniiTi broom, Pccock's 
bladder fena, hamamelis fymphoricar- 
pos, ciftufes, lucca broom, cytiflus 
hirfutus, tamarilk with fome others. 
Mediiinal Plants, avh'uh may noiv be ga- 
thered for Uj'e. 
Calamus aromaticus, winter cherry, 
arum or cuckow-pintle roots, whol- 
fome wolfsbane roots, barberry fruit, 
hemp feed, capficum or Indian pep- 
per, baltard faftron, cucumber feed, 
bitter vetcli feed, fennel fe^d, fenugreek 
feed, alifander feed, walnut fruit, let- 
tuce feed, lentil feed, lovage feed, 
gromweil feed, flax feed, hops, millet 
feed, fweet fern feed, garden crefs feed, 
macedonian parfley feed, canHy carrot 
feed, common parfley feed, radifh ^zti^ 
elderberries, favin, fcfcii feed, flixweed 
feed, muilard feed, nightfliade, golden- 
rod, 

Plar.ti nozv in Fl'ji'Jer in the Green-lhufe 
and Stove. 
Oleanders with double and fmele 
flowers, colutei ^Ethiopica, amomum 



Plinli, myrtles, tree candy tufr, fcabi- 
ous tree, houfeleck tree, feveral forts 
of ficcidef-s, cotyledons, alec:, Indian 
fig, double nallurtium, Spanidi jnf- 
mine, azorian jafmine, yellow Indiart 
jafmine, arsbian jafmine, polyanthufcs, 
Guernfey lily, bcllidonna lily, Iconu- 
rus, cytifu5 incanus, capers, granadii- 
las, fcnfitive and humbie plants, heii- 
otrcpium arbo'cfcens, amber tree, 
apocynum?, I^ntanas of feveral forts, 
abutilons, fritilaria cralfa, canna indi- 
ca, bean caper, Indian anow-root, 
African alcea, African groundfel tree, 
indigo, palma chriiti, fpurgcs,euphor- 
bium, phyfick nut, elichryfums, gre- 
wia, pipavv, turnera, Itranicniiims, 
diofmas, chironia, snemonofpermofes, 
folanums, foartiums, dorias, lotus 
hsmorrhoidalis, cardinal's flower, caf- 
fias, fena alexandrina, fena fpuria, 
ketmia'!, piercea, panci'atiums, cri- 
num two forts, haemanthus, plume- 
ria, bauhinia, martynia, milleria, ce- 
ftrLMTis, hclleborine, rauvolfia, malpi. 
ghia, convolvulufes, bafTclla, alkekengi 
three or four forts, fplgell;i, oldenlan- 
dia, msnrocenia, cliffortia, Lotus with 
black flowers, African wcod forrel, 
ornithogalum luteum,kieinia,riururus, 
anthericums, ginger, coflus, kempfe- 
ria, voikhameria, galingale, d'ayena, 
ruellias, barleria, fweet-fcented helio- 
trope from Peru, phylica, com.nnelina, 
rondelitia, upright torch thiAle, clutia, 
geraniums of feveral forts, arums, 
tcurncfortia, with fome others. 

SEPTOIL. 5tff ToRMFNTiL. 

SERMOUNTAIN. See Laser- 
wort. 

SERPENT'S TONGUE. See Ad- 
der's TONOUE. 

SERVICE TREE, [Sorbus.:\ The 
right fervice tree is a tail and beautiful 
tree, and very v.ell worth planting for 
its tim'^er. Tliere are two or threa 
other kinds which are called by the 
fame general name, and tiiey agree in 
the nature of the wood, as well as in 
the flowers, and the fhape of the fruit j 
but they vary in the fliape of the leaf, 
and the degree of goodnefs. Thefe 
other kinds are diftinguirtied hy the 
names of, i.The Service Tree,wiih the 
fruit red in the middle. i. The (h> rt 
fruited fervice; and, 3. The wild fer- 
vice or quick beam. 

The firft is tlie mofl valuable, and 
the 



S E R 



S E R 



the two next come neareft its nature. 
Tlie Jaft dift'ers more, and is not 
generally accounted of the fcrvice kind, 
but called by a dillinft name. The 
flowers of the others are much alike; 
they appear early in fprini:, and the 
fruit is very rough to the talle till tho- 
roughly mellow. All the fur.iiricr it 
makes a beautiful appearance. 

The be(t foil for the Service Tree is 
a toui^h and tirm loam, with fome rich 
earth among ic. Such are very com- 
mon toward the foot of hills, or on 
any gentle afcent, and thefe are the 
bell fituations alfo for this tree. When 
the foil is too li^ht, the tree grows very 
ilowly j and when it is too dry, the 
iVnit ripens very poorly, neither do 
the leaves fland their time. When 
the fervice is judicicufly planted, it 
grows quick, and anfwers very well 
TO tlie huAjandman ; but when the 
plantation is made at random, none 
anfwers worfe. Few know its value ; 
tecaufe few have given it a fair trial ; 
nor is its timber fo rriuch known, or 
fo common to be had, as it ought to 
be, for this very reafon. He who will 
fall into the method of raifing thefe 
tres, will do a fervice to the public, as 
well as to himfelf 5 for there needs but 
a beginning to incite others, and the 
ccnfequencs would be a ready market 
for the timber, and it wouid prevent 
the importation cf a great deal of fo- 
reign fine wood ; which, however called 
by founding names, is inferior to the 
fervice tree in beauty, and in value. 

The fervice may be raifed from feed, 
but the better way is by layers, which 
take root very freely, and are naturally 
produced in great abundance. Thofe 
who have 3 mind to raife them from 
feed, muft fow them in fhailow 
trenches, in a nurfery, and keep them 
clear from weeds. At two years old 
they muft be planted out at a yard dif- 
tance, and three or four years after 
that, be fet where they are to tland. 
Such as W3r.t only a few trees, may 
conveniently enough raife them from 
fuckers, which grow about the old 
trees in threat ahundcnce. Thefe are 
to be tranfplsnted early in fpring. 

Which ever wsy the fervice tree be 
raifed, it (hould be carefully trimmed 
lip for the firil eight or ten years, that 
it may not fpread into branches till at 
a certain height, when there will be a 



handfome trunk for timber. After 
this it it beil left to itfelf. 

It is a very proper tree for avenues, 
clumps and hedje rows, and 'tis great 
pity that it is noc more frequent. Its 
beauty fhould be an inducement to 
the gentleman, and its quick growth 
and valuable wood to liie hufbandman. 

Tlie Quick Beam, or, as fome call 
it, the Quicken Trc:, or acconding to 
others, the Wild Service, or Mountain 
Afh,for it has all thef^ names, i* pro- 
perly a kind of ferviee tree. It is a 
beauriful hut a fm.ill tree, being one 
of the leaA of thofe that are accounted 
timber trees, or planted for that 
purpofe. 

The bark is pale and fmooth, the 
leaves are beautifully ior.med, each be- 
ing compofed of many fmaller, whicS 
are long, narrow, and finely dented at 
the edges. The flowers flar.d in great 
bunches at the end of the branches, 
and are whitilh, large and handfome : 
and after thele come beautiful ber- 
ries red like coral. 

This elegant little tree is a native of 
England, and is a great beauty and or- 
nament to our coppices and hedge- 
rows, in thofe counties where it is 
moft frequent. Its fair appearance has 
occaf:oned its being taken alfo into 
gardens, where it makes a fine figure 
in the wilJernefs quarters. 

The bed foil for the quick beam is a 
light and dry loam ; and it grows bed 
on a fomewhat rifing fituation. No 
tree is better fuited to thrive in hedge- 
rows, where the foil is light and dry. 
It roots itfelfvery firmly; and fhoots 
up in a moderate time to its full ftature. 

The belt way of raifing the quick 
beam is from feed. The berries are to 
be gathered when full ripe, and fow« 
after they have been fpread a fortnight 
in a dry airy garret. They fhoot up 
very regularly and freely, and (honld 
be removed from their firft bed to fome 
other part of the nurfery at two years 
growtli, and planted at two foot dif- 
tance. Three or four years after this, 
they are fit to be tranfplanted to the 
places where tliey are to Itand ; and a 
fmall nurftry will thus, with little or 
no trouble, raife fuch a quantity as 
will Hock a Isrge piece of ground ; 
where being fet in hedges, or the banks 
of coppice woods, & other fu.;h places, 
they Y>-\U f'uickly ^row to fome v.alue. 
Thofe 



S E R 



SHE 



Thofc who would only raifc a k*f 
trees, may take up tuckers from about 
the old ones, for they i ife in abundance, 
and grow freely. 

The quick beam fhould have very 
little trimming or lojjping ; for, as it 
[s not to He carried to a large tree, 'tis 
bert kit to nature, the brandies of 
thcmfelves growing with a pretty ir- 
regularity. 
_ HORN-BEAM, [G/y^/wj.] This 
by midake in its alphabetical arrange- 
ment is referred toSERVfc_F., and ac- 
cordingly we have on that account 
placed ic here. 

Tlie horn-heam is a beautiful antl 
regularly growing tree. Its bark is 
l>ro\vn and tolcrabiy fmooth, and the 
wood firm. The leaves are (hort and 
indented at the edy;es, they are fome- 
w!-.at like thcfe of the elm, but of a 
more beautiful green. The flowers 
are fmall and inconfiderahle. Th.ey 
hang in catkins like thofe of t!ie hazel ; 
and the Iruit, which is dry and lisht, 
grows on a different part of the tree. 

There are four kinds of this tree 
ralfed innurferies. i. The common 
Horn- Beam. 2. The Hop Horn- 
Beam. 3. The flowering Horn-Beam ; 
and, 4, The Horn-Beam with llriped 
leaves : but the hufbandman who 
would plant for advantage, has nothing 
to do with any of thcfe except the 
common kind. 

The horn-beam is an extreamly 
hardy tree, it will grow in the worll 
foil and bleakeft fituation. For this 
reafon it is very proper to he planted 
on the tops of cold hills, and in places 
fo expoftrd, that others will not grow 
on them. It will thrive very well in 
hedges, and in woods ; and is excel- 
lent for clumps in the bleakelt and 
worft parts of parks, and it every 
where engages the eye by its bs-'auty. 

The bsft way of propa:^a::ng the 
horn-beam is by layers. It may alfo 
be raifed from feeds, but this is a more 
tedioua method, and the other does as 
well. If the feeds arc preferred, they 
nr.udbe gathered in September, and 
fcwn thiec: weeks or a month after, 
laying them in the mean time in a dry 
airy place. They will fomeiimes come 
ujj in five or fix months, fometimes 
!hey Will lis till the foliowirg fprir.g. 
' ':ey are to be thir.r.td foon a.'ter they 



•^/7^/- 



appear, and kept clear of weeds, and! 
at two years old to be removed to ano- 
ther part of the nurfery, where they 
mult be planted at a greater diflance» 
and 5 or 4 years after they are to be 
finally removed, and fet where they 
are to remain. But the method by lay- 
ers is much more exjjeditious, and the 
trees grow as beautiful that way as the 
ether. 

SETTER. Akindoffeton or ifTue, 
made by cutting a hole in the dewlap 
of an ox or cow, and putting into tlic 
wound a fort of tent formed out of the 
root of hsilcboraller ; by which the ill 
humours vent themfelves, 

SETTERWORT. Bearsfoot. 

SETWELL. Valerian. 

Tt SEW, cr Go Siw, to go dry j ^^^^ 
fpcken of a cow. 

SHADDOCK. 5«Obakge Tree. xJ ^ 

SHAKING. A difeafe incident to !*> <A 
fiieep, confiftingofa weaknefs in their l;; >^ 
hinder quarters, fo that they cannot n ^ 
rife up when they are down. No cure O*^^ 
is yet known for it. ■** J 

SHARE of a Plough. That part ^^ '"^ 
which cuts the ground, the extremity - 
forward being covered with a fliarp- <^^ 5 
pointed iron, called the point of the t^ 's^ 
Ihare j and the end of the wood be- ^ /K 
hind, the tail of tlie Hiar^ See the ar- •; ^n^ 
fica/ Plough. Couff-^t. A> ,^ 

SHAVE GRASS. Horfetail. V^ -;: 

SHAW. A wood that encompafles 
a ciofe. , 

SKEAT of a Plough. That part of ^ 
the plough which pa/Tes through the s\ 
be?m, and is fa(>ened to the (hare, }\* 

The fheat, or as it is fometimes ^ 
called the fore-fheat, there bzing ano- 
ther piece of timber behind it called 
the hinder-fiieat, fhould be fcven inches n 
wide, and faftened to tlie beam by a "^1 
retell I'a piece of iron with tv.-o legs) J^ 
and by a wedge driven by it into the 
hole cf the beam. The arglc con- V 
taincd between the fheat and the beam V^ 
of the plough fhould be about forty- *• 
two decrees. J^ 

SHtAVES. Bundles cfcojn bound s 
up in the fie!d,^4e »-'/7>*/^ , *■ 

SHED. A flight temporary covering. I^i 

SJlhEF. Next in value an^d confi- ^ 
deration to the larger of the horned 'N 
cattle comes the fhtep 5 an article of ''^ 
vaft concernment to the farmer : cheap tS 
i.T [l,e purchafc; cafjiy fjd; and return- \^ 



\^ 



^ 



K 



SHE 



SHE 



Sng a jjrcat profit by many fcveral 
\vay5 : even its dun'j upon tl)e land 
often paying for all ic e<tli> wliile ftd 
iipon !(. 

We liave already advifed the farmer 
in the choice of his larger cattle, to 
proportion their kind to the des^rte of 
riclintfs in liii land : it is not iho for- 
tune of every hufbandman tu labour 
upon a fruitful foil : but the word is 
not wiiluHit its ufcs; and ftietp are a 
Jlock for fuel) as will not fupport the 
iaiger kinds. We fee them thrive upon 
the moll barren downs; and the far- 
mer will alu'ays find tliem re.dy to 
fatten upon fucli giounds as will not 
keep the oth.er kinds alive. 

As the oxen of t'nplana a^e of very 
different breeds, though all the fame 
In kind, fo it is with the fheep, which 
differ exircamly according to the feve- 
ral breeds in different places ; and are 
therefore fuited one to one kind of 
land, and another to another. 

We (ball advife the hulbandman to 
great caution, in the Hocking his farm 
with flieep : and tins under tv^'0 heads, 
flrrt, with refpeft to the breed, and 
fecondly, for his choice of the crea- 
tures themftlves; for there are, in 
(every breed, many that are much finer 
than others, and tliefe he fhouid chufe. 
Half the profit that might bs made by 
this part of the hufbandmun's flock, 
is loft by carfclcffnefsin the firll choice, 
and in ilie foliowini; management : but 
^n eiror in tlie iiiit choice is the nioit 
fatal, becaufe it is irrecoverable, ex- 
cept by beginning over again. \Vs 
fhall therefore firlt conlidtr that, and 
laying bifoie the pradlical hufbanJ- 
rnan the properties and p.irticular ufes 
of the feveral different breed of flieep 
that vi.'e have in Enghnd, (hall advife 
him in his choice according to his 
main delign, his bell advantage, and 
the nsture of the land he has to ftock 
with them. 

Witli refped to the finen^fs of tlje 
wool, there is a f.Tiall breed, diftin- 
• guifhed by their black face and thin 
coat, that exceed all, others. They 
Lear hut a fmaM quantity in comjia- 
lifon of many, but the qiiality of it 
makes amends. Thefeareeafiiy known 
ty liglit. They were firlt raifid in 
l:crLford:hIri; and Woiccilerfhire. Ar.J 
(ii thit rea.^'on arj known in jii..ny 



places by the name of the Hercfcrd- 
fhire or the Worcerterfliire breed. A 
dry, barren, and expofed palturage 
will very well feed this kind, for they 
are hardy ; and ilic fhorter the grafs on . 
which thty feed, it is obfervW the li- 
ner the wool. They are alfo exccllenc 
for the tabic, the joints being fmall 
and full cf a fine gravy. We lee this 
kind kept in many parts of England, 
in gentlemen's paiks and lawns, and 
they every where make a pretty ap- 
pearance. 

The kind mofl oppoflte to thefe are 
a 1 nge, tall, and heavy-loaded fheep : 
lliefc have llrong limbs, and a ftou: 
gait in walking: they carry a gieat 
deal c( wool, but it is coarfe. Thefe 
were firfl bicd in Llncolnlhiie, and in 
fome of the adjoining couniiesj and 
are fond of living in fait marfhes. They 
have been taken into many parts of 
the kingdom, to other ground, where 
they do not keep entirely to their own 
nature : and yet are called, from the 
place whence they were brought, thts 
Lincolnfhire breed. 

The flefli of th^fe is large grained, 
but moderately tailed, and no where 
very much efieemed. However, as they 
are obferved to fucceed better than the 
other breeds, in places toward the fea, 
it may be proper for the hufbandman 
who has land in fuch a fituation, to 
take fonieof them: thoughnot for his 
whole ftock in this kind. 

Thirdly, there is a breed between 
thefe two kinds, which in general 
fliould be preferred to either. This is 
a large, tall, and (hong fheep, of the 
bert lliapeof any, & liavifig the deepeft 
coat of wool. I'his was originally fed 
in feveral cf. cur midland counties, and 
has thence been called by fome th« 
JVlidhnd Breed J and hy others, from 
fome particular counties famous fcr 
them, theLciceflerfnire or Northamp- 
tonfhire bieed. The wool of this kind, 
though not altogether fo good as that 
of the fmali black-faced fheep, is greatly 
preferable to that cf the Lincolnfhire 
breed ; and the quantity is fo much 
greater than thatof the fmaller kind, 
that it very well makes amends for its 
inferior quality. 

The iltfii cf this fheep is the common 
niuttop, not in any" thing particular 
for goodnels er badr.^fs : and it will 

do 



S li E 



SHE 



'd very well upon the common paf- 
:urc grounds, and thrive upon every 
common kind of food. For thefe rea- 
funs it is fit tliat thefe fheep fhould be 
ntoi\ generally bred. 

When the huiTjaiulman has very poor 
pafliire grounds, let him take the He- 
rcfordihire breed j and when he bor- 
ders upon the fca-coaA, or uf>on tlie 
ihores of large fait- water rivers, let 
him prefer, in part at leal^, the Lin- 
colnshire kind j but wiien he has none 
olthefe particular reafons to byafshim, 
\ti him prefer t!iis midland breed to 
any ether. 

To thcfe three, v. Iiich may be called 
the general breeds of fheep, we fliall 
aJd a few words en two otiier kinds. 

The fheep bred in the northern parts 
cf this kingdom, are a large and big- 
boned fort J they approacli to the Lin- 
colnfhire kind in fhape j but tlieir 
wool is harfh, rough, and hairy j thtfe 
are called by Tome the Vorklhire breed. 
Their fieihis inferior to that ot le- 
veral other kinds, as well as their 
wool ; but they have an advantage 
over the others, in that they will f^and 
the coldefl weather, and take care of 
themfclves where fome of the tenderer 
breeds would be loft. Tl.is may re- 
commend them to the hulbandman 
whofe lot has thrown him far north, 
where the other kinds will not thrive; 
but he ihould not introduce them into 
his farm in any other fuuation, for 
they are lefs profitable than any others. 
The lafl kind, or breed, to be men- 
tioned, is in a manner peculiar to 
mcuntainous countries 5 and is moll 
frequent in Wales. It may therefore 
be called the Welch breed. This is a 
fmall, but wel!-fhaped fheep j and fo 
fiardy that it will live any where. Tiie 
fiefn Is excellent for the table. But 
the wool is not only fmall in quantity, 
but is the worft produced by any breed 
of f?ieep In this country. 

The hufbandman will fee by this ac- 
count, that it never can be his interefl 
to admit this breed among his fleck, 
unlefs compelled to it by the particu- 
larity of his Ctuation. The little black- 
faced fheep of Herefordfhire has the 
f;.me advantage in the excellence of i'.s 
flefh ; and it has, into the bargain, tiiC 
f.neft wool. Therefore it is highly to 
be preferred, where it will thrive : and 
>*ill do on very p-jor and very tx- 
VOL. II, 



pofed ground. However, If at any 
time the farmer finds his paftures (o 
poor, fo expofcd, and miferable, that 
they will nut fupport this kini, all he 
has to do is to call in the other, or 
Welch breed, which •.vill live any where. 
Having laid befoie the hufbandmart 
this account of the three principal dif- 
ferent breeds of fheep in England, and 
the two other kinds that are in a man- 
ner particular to certain places, the 
next part of our care mu(\ be, the in- 
ftru<fiing him in his choice, not only 
of the breed he fhall fix upon, for the 
grounds of that choice have been laid 
down al.-eady, in their feveral charac- 
ters; but of the particular creatures 
he fhall fix upon in the breed that it 
moft fuited to iiis purpofe. 

Bjt to this particular let us premlfe 
a few v/ords upon his general choice, 
that is, as to the breed. He fees here 
five feveral kinds of fheep, fome large, 
others fmaller; and fome yielding a 
greater, fome a fmaiier quantity of 
wool, which is alfo on one breed fine, 
and on another coarfer. He has his 
choice given him among all thefe, for 
we fuppofe him not yet to have begua 
ftocking his farm with this article : it 
would be natural for him to prefer at 
once the fineft kind as mofl profitable j 
but let him not only remember, but 
lirifliy obferve v. hat we Iiave juf^ laid 
down, that every breed will no: f'uit 
every pafture. 

He has now feen what are the kinds 
of fheep; let him examine what is the 
naturs of his land ; and when he has 
impartially ccnfidered this, let him fix 
upon that breed which will thrive befl 
on that kind of pallurage he has at his 
command, for ttiis we have exprefsly 
told him v.'ith refpeft to each ; and let 
him then purchafe for his farm that 
breed which he fees will be moft fuited 
to thrive on it. 

This he may be afTured of, and he 
may extend the rule farther than barely 
to his flieep, that he will have mo;e 
profit from the very worft kind that 
Tnall thrive upon his land, than he pof- 
fibly can from the very Left that fhall 
flarve upon it. 

One thing farther is to be noted be- 
fore we come to the particular choice, 
that is, the difference of tlie land which 
he is to bring them to from that wheni:e 
he piirchafed them: this muit be in 
R r thij 



SHE 



S H O 



,^^. 



tures, and finds that liis Iambs want 
milk, it is beft to fell them at once to 
the botcher: for it is not the running 
by the ewe th«t will preferve them, 
jlie can be of no fcrvice agamft fuch 
an accident, if flie wants mill; for their 
full fupport. 

Thofe he lambs that are intended to 
be bred a!~fams, fhould be feparated 
from the reft, and the others gelt in 
time. The fooncr tliis is done the 
better : for every creature bears this 
operation belt wliiic it is tender, and 
is with ths cam. If this opeiation 
have been neglcdcd at a proper time, 
it muft be done toward iheend of Sep- 
tember, at which feafon it is befl to 



famej time clean; and tiie 'cleannefii 
will difcovcr itsim; erfeftion, inffeadof 
enhancing the piice, if it be net fatty. 

This fatiynefs of the wool is owing 
to tlie cieatuie's fweatinp, and there- 
fore i!;ere muft be feme hot weather 
pall before it is fhsarcd, that it may 
havefvveated well: not once or twice, 
for that will anfvver no purpofe : but 
feveral times for days together, (hat 
the moifture may have lodged itfelf 
about the wool, and in a manner oiled 
it fo, tiiat the neceflfary wafliing of tiie 
creature for cleanlynefs, fliall not be 
abl-'to cany it off. 

Unlefs the fhecp have fweated well 
before the wafliing, that will do harm 



feparate the breed or this purpofe, and equal to its good, for as much as it in- 



fee it be done fperfefll/ 

Sheep's Fescue Grafs, [Fejiuca 
miir.a.'] This grafs is much eiteemed 
for feeding of Iheep in Sweden, where 
ihey have not fuch downs as we l.ave. 

Gmelin fays, that the Tartars clioofe 
to fix, during the fonmier, in thcfe 
p'aces where there is the greatert plenty 
of this grafs, becaufe it affords a moll 



creafes the price by cleannefs, it di- 
miniflies it by taking off the fatnefs. 
It is very necefiary fheep fhould be well 
wafhed before they aie flieaied : but 
the farmer is to know at the fame 
time, that unlefs they have well fweat 
in their wool firft, this will hurt it. 

Upon this foundation depends all 
the art of nicep-flieaiing. 1 he befl 



wholfome nouiifhment to ail kinds of fofonof the year for doing it is toward 

cattle, but chiefiy fheep: and he ob- midfummer. But let the weather de- 

ferveSj that thefepulchral monuments tcrmine, and let not the farmer becar- 

of the ancient Tartars are mollly found ried away by the name of any day, or 

in places which abound with thisgrafs, month, againfl the ufe of his reafon. 
which ihews, adds he, that it has long Shepherd's N.cdle. Sea Sivett 

been valued among them. Ffrn. Cfi ^ o /^-^ 

This crafs abounds in many parts Shepherd's pouch. 7 t r> r -o 
of England and Wales, and particu- hnEPHSRDSPL'ftSE.i '- J 

S^rly on all the finefl fneep paflures in y75/;"i.] This plant is common in wafle 

Kerefordfhire, Oxford/hiie, Norfolk, places; and is found in flower all the 



&c. Mr. Stillingf^ect cbferves, that it 
Is a very early grafi, and that, contrary 
to wiiat Linna'.iis fays, either fheep, 
or fbme other animals do eat the flow- 
ering Aems of this grafs; for, when he 
fearc'.ied for it upon Benflead downs, 



fummer. Shepherd's purfe has long 
been celebrated as an aftringent, and 
<?rongly recommended in diarrhoea";, 
djfenteries, uterine floors, and in 8;e-' 
neral in all difeafes where aflringents 
of any kind can avail ; but prefenC 



he could fee no part of it but the radi- pr.nclice pays little or no regard to it. 



cal leaves, except among bufhes near 
the hedges, where it was guarded from 
ihe fheep. 

Shear IK G of Sheep. There are 
two articles in the condition of the 
wool which enhance'it^ price. Thtfe 
sre, fattynefs and cleannefs. And it is 



Shepheri5's Stuff. Teazel. 

SHOODS. Oat hulls. 

SHOULDER.WREKCH. To un- 
derhand the nature of thefe infirmities, 
it will be necelfary to remember, that 
the blade-bone of the fliouhier is fixed 
to the body, not by articulation or 



in the owner's power to give it thefe jointing, hut by appofition, being laid 



to the ribs, and faftened by the 
mufcles which lie imder and above 
it; fo wh?n a hor^e happens to re- 
ceive a blew or flrain in the fhoul- 
der. t!ie tendons of thcfe mufcles 
The fattynefs of the wool will never are Uretchcd and relaxed j and when 
any value, ur.kfs it be at the fp-'^i't 



in a much greater degree than they 
otherwifc would be, by his care and 
atr^ncion. The firfl will be incnsafed 
by the time of fliearing, the other by 
cleanlinefs. 



S H O 

that 1$ violent, it is called a jhoulicr- 
fplaii, and becomes more or Icfs dange- 
rous, ab the hoife ii inoreoi lefs hardy. 

Every one futrcientJy knows, that 
a lllp, talfe Itep, or any undue position 
of a horlc's leg, will (train and woken 
the (houldcr, by rtretching tliofe liga- 
ments ; and fometimes the fhoulder is 
aft'eftcd by a hurt or bruife on the wi- 
thers, the leafon of which may be ea- 
fily enougli conceived, by any one who 
will examine into the rtrud^ure of 
thefe parts; but when the accident 
proves not fo violent as to (hew a loofe- 
nefs and fwelling, it is not eafily dif- 
cerned whether the lamencfs be in the 
fhoulder, in the foot, or any other 
ioint. The beft judges have therefore, 
in all fuch cafes, thought it proper 
to examine all parts from the Ihoulder 
downwards, and even to unOioe the 
horfc, that they may knew certainly 
where to apply their remedies. But 
tlie infirmities of the (houlders may be 
diftinguiftied from thofeof the feet, by 
having ahotfeputto excrcife; for if 
tlie lamenefs be in the feet, he will 
halt mofl when he is ridden ; but if it 
be in the fhoulder, the warmer he 
grows, the lefs he will halt; and, if 
the wrench be violent, he will be apt 
to cad his leg outwards, forming a 
circle as he goes. But if none of thefe 
ligns are perceivable in his gait, the 
fureft way is to turn him fliort on the 
lame fide, for that tries tlie mufcles 
the moft of any tiling; fo that if the 
grief be in the fhoulder, he will fet his 
foot on the ground hardily, and en- 
deavour to favour his rtiouider. 

But in order to the cure, a diftinc- 
tion ought to be made between ao 
old grief, and a hurt that is newly re- 
ceived ; for, ir» a frefh (train, the fir(t 
intention is to apply fuch things as are 
proper to allay the heat and inflamma- 
tion, and prevent a too great afflux of 
matter to the part ; whereas in an old 
grief, thofe things are chiefly made 
ufe of that attenuate ^nd render the 
fuperfluous humours fit to p^fs thro' 
the pores ; and therefore, as foon as 
you perceive your horfe lamed in the 
fhoulder, by a fall, or any other acci- 
dent, after he has been bled on the op- 
polite fide, a cold leftringent charge 
may be applied of vinegar, bcle, and 
the whites of eggs. Verjuice may be 
r.fed inftead of vinegar uj-on tlie road, 



S H 

which may be had at any farm-houfe; 
for the fooner a cold application is 
made, the better. The part ought, in 
the beginning, to be reti cfhed 3 or 4 
times a day, with a fpunge dip; in vi. 
negar and bole j and after that the fol- 
lowing plailler may be applied : 

' 1 aUe common pilch half a pound, 
' de M.nk plailter or diachylon fix 
' cunccs, common turpentine 
' four ounces: melt them alto- 
' gether in a pipkin over hot em- 
' bets, continually (lirringj and 
' when thefe are dJfTolved, add 
' bole in fine powder four ouncss, 
' myrih and aloes, of each an 

* ounce. Spread this upon the 

* horfc'i fhoulder, before it grows 

* cold, and put fine flocks of the 

* colour of the horfe all over it.' 
But vvh.n the lamenefs happens to 

be of an old (landing, the following 

ointment willl be of great fervice. 

' Take of the foldiers ointment, or 

' nerve ointment, half a pound, 

' ointment of marlhmallows fix 

' ounces, rcftifyed oil of amber 

* four ounces. Mix them all to- 

* gether, & with a hot bar of iron 
' held as near as pofTible, chafe 

* the part twice a day ; and, at 
' fome intervals, with ca.-Tipho- 
' rated (pirits.' 

The foidiers ointment Is made aS 
follows : 

' Take frelh bay-leaves three pounds, 
' rue two pounds and a half, mar- 

* joram two pounds, mint ont 
' pound, I'aje, wormwood, cofV- 
' mary, bafil, of each half a pound, 

* oil olive twenty pounds, yellow 

* wax four pounds, Malaga win6 
' two pounds.' 

Bruife all the leaves, and boil to the 
confiftence of an ointment, and keep 
it for ufe. This may be made in a 
fmaller quantity by thofe who keep 
but few horfes. 

SoU-yfcll recommeads the ointment 
of Monipe'iier as an excellent remedy 
in all (Irains in the Ihoulders, &c. It 
is compoCed of the ointment of rofes, 
marnimailows, pcpuleon and honey, 
of each equal quantities. The oils of 
turpentine, earth-worms, oil of P«rc, 
St. Jtthn's wort, nerve oil, bear's greafe, 
horfe greafe, mules greafe, deers fuet, 
badgers greafe, and many fuch things^ 
are alio ufcd in the fame intention. 

But 



S I D 



SID 



Bot If the lamenefj docs not yield lo 
there things, recouiie may be liad to 
rpwefing, or to the fire j but tlie lail 
is preferable, andlefs painful than the 
\jfual metliod of rowelin^, by bruifing 
and blowing up the fhouidcr. 

And, tlierefoie, vvitli a hot iron, 
Hifike a circle tlie breadth of a trencher 
round the joint, and within the whole 
circle pierce the fkin, leaving about 
an inch between the holes, and to each 
apply ytUovv wax and rofm mtltcd to- 
gether, until the efcars fall off, and 
then drefs them every day with turpen- 
tine and iioney, applying plaiflers as 
di.-eifled, until ilie lores are dried up. 

Son^e advife fwimming a liorle for a 
fhoulder-fplair, from an opinion of the 
joint being out ; but if it were really 
lb, he niufl fwim with three legs, 
\vhich is alinofl as impoiTii.ile as for a 
cloor to move without hinges. Rut yet 
fwimming is not always unfuccefsful ; 
and, in all old griefs, it becomes fer- 
viceable in tiie fame manner as a cold 
bath, by helping perfpiration, and gi- 
ving a more lively motion to the ob- 
ilruifled matter; and therefore the 
morning is the propcreli time, becaufe 
the water is then the coldeft, and it 
ihould be a continued cuftom for fome 
time to do effeftual fervice. 

But, in all other refpefts, the horfe 
ihould be put to no kiiid of labour, 
neither ought any one to ride him, for 
a weiglit upon his back muft needs 
add to the inurmity, as the greateft 
X^refs lies upon the fiiouldtrs j but it 
will be very proper for him to be walked 
out every day, when the weather is fa- 
vourable ; and his exercife may be in- 
creafed as his fhouldcr recovers rtrength j 
a patten fhoc may alio be fct upon 
the oppofite foot, if he leans too much 
upon it. 

SHOVEL. A well-known inrtru- 
]pisnt, confining of a long handle, and 
a broad blade, witii r-iiftd edges, 

SHOWEL. A blind for a cow's 
eyes. 

SHROUD. A fhelter, or harbour. 

SHUCK. A hulk or (hell. 

SICKLE. A toothed hook, with 
wliicli corn is reaped, 

SIDE-SADDLE. A faddle for wo- 
men to ride on hcreback. 

Side-saddle Fi.itur, \_Sartae»ra.^ 
There are two fptcics j one growing 
•n the bogs of moll parts of North- 



America, which has a ftiong fibro'.n 
root, which (Irikes deep into the foft 
earth, from which arifc five, fix, or 
feven leaves, in proportion to the 
ftrength of the plant ; ihefe are hollow 
like a pitcher, narrow at their bafe, 
but fwell out large at the top; their 
outer tides are rounded, but on their 
inner they are a little comprelfed, and 
have a broad Itafy border running lon- 
gitudinally the whole length of the 
tube; and to the rounded part of the 
leaf there is on the top a large appen- 
dage or ear (landing ereft, of a brown- 
iih colour; this (urrounds the outfide 
of the leaves, about two-thirds of the 
top. From the center of the root, be- 
tween the leaves, arifes a ftrong, 
round, naked foct-flalk about a foot 
higli, fultaining one nodding flower 
at the top, which has a double empale- 
ment ; the outer one is of one leaf, di- 
vided into five parts to the bottom, 
where they are connefted to the foot- 
f^alks ; thefe fegments are obtufe, and 
bend over the flower, fo as to cover 
the infide of it; they are of a purple 
colour on theoutfide, but green within, 
having purple edges ; the inner em- 
palement, which is compofed of three 
green leaves, falls cfF ; within thefe 
are five oval petals of a purple colour, 
which arehollovved like a fpoon ; thefe 
cover the ftamina and fummits, with 
partof the ftigma alfo. In the center 
is fituated a large, roundiih, channelled 
gernien, fupporting a (hoit flyle, 
crowned by a very broad five-cornered 
fligma, faflened in the middle to the 
flyle, covering the Aamina like a tar- 
get ; this is green, but the five corners, 
which are llrctched out beyond the 
brim, are each cut into two points, 
and are purplifh. Rcund'the germen 
are fituatud a great nurriber of (horc 
flamina, joining the fides of the ger- 
men clofely, which are terminated by 
target-lltaped furrowed fummits, of a 
pale fulphur colour. When the flower 
decays, the germen fsvells to a lari^e 
roundith capfufe with five cells, co- 
vered by the permanent fligma, filled 
with fmall feeds. 

The fecond fort -grows naturally in 
Carolina, upon bojcs and in (landing 
(hallow waters. The leaves of this 
fort grow near three reet higli, fni^.U at 
the bottom, but widening gradually 
to the top. Tlicy are hollow, and 
arched 



S K T 



S M A 



arched over at the mouth like a fnar's 
cowl. The flowers of this grow en 
naked pedicles, rifin,::from the root to 
tiie heiglit of threo icctj the flowers 
ate 5reen. 

Tliefe plants srecfleemed for the fin- 
jjiilar (tru(fluie cf their leaves and flow- 
ers, which are fo different from all the 
known plants, as to have little lefem- 
bl.ince of any yet difcovered; hut there 
is feme difficulty in i^etting them to 
thrive in England, when they are oh- 
tained from abroad ; for as they grow 
naturiliy on boj';, or in llialiow fiand- 
ing waters, fo unlefs t!iey nre con- 
rtantlykept in we: th.'y will not thrive; 
and although the winters are very 
fnarp in the countries where the firft 
fort naturally throws, yet beint^ covered 
■with water, and the remains of de- 
cayed plants, they are defended from 
froft. 

SIEVE. Hair, lawn, or bafket- 
work, (drained en a hoop, for fepara- 
ting the flour fro.n the ^n, the duft 
from corn, kc. tJoA. ^/%/t. ^ 

SIG. Urine, chamber-lie, 

SIKE. A little rill, a water furrow, 
a gutter. 

SILK GRASS. Dogfbane. 

SILVER BUSH. Jupiter's beard. 

Silver tree, [Protcc.'\ This is 
a native of the Cape of Good Hope, 
of which there are no lefs than twenty 
fpecies, but all require the afTillance 
of a flove or green-houfe. 

Silver weed, [FoiVnn'/a.] Cinq'je- 
foil. 

SIMAROUBA. A bark with 
pieces of the wood adhering fo it, 
br6ught from Guiana, in long tough 
pieces, of a pale yellowifii colour, nnd 
a pretty firong bitter tafte. It his 
lately come into efteem in •^yfciiterlc 
fluxes : a decoition of half a dram is 
given for a dofe, and r.peated at in- 
tervals of three or four hours. 

SIT-FAST. A part of a horfe's 
hide turned horny, and which if it can- 
not be diflblved, and (oi{tnn\ by rub- 
bing with merc;'rial ointment, muft 
be cut out, and afterwards healed as a 
frefli wound. It generally proceeds 
from a warhle. ^/r{s- ^/i/i7} 

SIZZIKG. Yeaft, or barm. 

SKIL). The chain by which the 
■wheel of a waggon is faitened, fo as 
to prevent its turning round, upon 
defcending a f\eep l:ilJ. 



SK.ILLING. An iilc, or bay of a 
barn. 

SKIRRETS. A kind of parfnep, 
which thrive befl in a light and mcilt 
foil. They are propagated either by 
feeds, or by flijss from the root, which 
is compofed of feveral flefliy fibres, 
about the thicknefs of a mans little 
fmger, terminating in one head. This 
root, for which only the fkirret is cul- 
tivated, is reckoned wholfome and 
nourilhing : but it is flatulent, and too 
fweet tailed for many palates. The 
feeds cf this plant, which generally 
produce larger roots than the flips, 
Ihould be fown aSout the end of 
March or the beginning of April, and 
if they are good, the plants will ap- 
pear in five or fix weeks. When they 
have put out their leaves fo as to be 
well diflinguifhed from weeds, the 
ground fliould be carefully hoed; and 
t.his fhould be repeated three feveral 
times, in the fame manner as is prac- 
tifed for carrots. In thefe hoeings, 
which fliould be performed in as dry 
weather as pofTible, the better to de- 
flroy the weeds, the fkirrets, whether 
fown in broad-call, or in drills, fliould 
be thinned the diltanceof at leafl three 
inches from each other. In autumn, 
when the leaves begin to decay, the 
roots will be fit for ufe. Thefe may 
be preferved all the winter, and till 
ihey begin to fhoot in the fpring^ wheti 
they will become hard and flicky. S,o 
willalfo thofe which run up to feed the 
firltfummer, and which fhould there- 
fore be'puiied up and thrown away. 

The feafon for propagating flcirrets 
by offsets is in the fpring, before they 
begin to flioot. The old roots fhould be 
dug up then, and the fide roots fliould 
be flipt off with an eye or bud to each. 
Thefe fhould be planrt-d four inclies 
afunder, in rows fufficiently diflant 
toleiveroom for digging between them. 

SLAB, The out-fide plank of a 
piece cf timber wlien fawn into boards 

SLECKS. Small pit. coal. 

Ladies SLIPPER, [ Cyprlpe3;u>v.. ] 
This plant mufl be taken in the place 
v;here it grows, and tranfplanted into 
the gardens. 

SLOE TREE. See Plum tree 
af.d Blackthork. 

SMALLAGE, [Ap'tum frravroUns.'] 

A plant growing naturally by the fides 

of Isrooks and ditches in mar-y pai ts of 

England 



■si 



£ii' 



S M U 

EnglanH, and is rarely cultivated Ir> 
garden-.. Thofc however, who are 
joncl of it in their pottage, may raife 
it in a moid foil, either by flips, or 
from feeds fown in March. This feed 
is reddifh, and pretty big, of a round- 
ifh oval Ihape, a little more full ar.d 
rifmg en one fide than on the other, 
and Itreatced iengthwifc. 

SMUT. A difcafe in corn, which 
partially or totally dL-Hroys the grain in 
the ear. When it is in the full height 
of its mifcliief, the whole inne r fub- 
Aance of the corn is black as ink, ot a 
faint, naufvous tarte, a bad fmell,and 
cfoffenfive qualities, occafioning fick- 
nefs in thofe who eat. bread made cf 
flour in which there was much of it. 
In this cafe, if the corn be bruifcd, and 
lletped in water, it prefently fliews in- 
numerable worms, like little eels, li- 
vini; in every part of it. 

When the diforder is not arrived to 
this full height, the inner fubftance of 
the corn is not then entirely hurt, but 
the outfide is fpotted with black; and, 
in fonie corns, a part of the flour 
witiun. This makes a great change 
in the matter; for the firrt is wholly 
dertroyed, whereas the other may fome- 
times be recovered for certain ufes, 
though not for all fervices. 

England is morefubjecl to this dif- 
order of corn than any other country 
we know; and this is owing to our 
wet fummers : in the warm and natu- 
rally dry countries it is not known at 
all, cr not in a degree worth notice. 

in Egypt no age ever faw a black 
grain of any corn ; for in Egypt they 
have no rain : and even in Italy it is 
little regarded now; and was fo (lighted 
in earlier time, that all the Roman 
writers have not a name for it. There 
is not a word of fmut in the Latin lan- 
guage. The reader mult not cenfure 
this alFertion, if fome modern writers, 
in that language, have attempted to 
n.ime it: they ufe words whicii pro- 
perly expiefs blight and mildew : to 
hoiii thefe the old Roman tieJds were 
fubjei^-, therefore they have terms to 
exprefs the.T) ; but tliis was little 
known, and kfs regarded. 

For the be!l known prevention cf 
this difeafe, we recommend good lil- 
laes, with a due courfe of crops and fal- 
lows ; and particularly change o f feed . 
fnfjiiJWiwe inchidj turnips, ti:. 

— /^/y/^/-. 



« N O 



"W 



SKAIL TREFOIL. ,S«Bastar^ 
Medic. 

SNAKE WEED. Butcrt. 

SNAKE ROOT. Bir-Hiwort. 

VlrginUn Snake Rooi , Is a fmall, 
light, bufhy root, confiftingof a num- 
ber of rtridgs or fibres, matted toge- 
ther, ifluing from one common head ; 
of a brownillj colour on the outfidc, 
and paler or yellowifli witiiin. It has 
an aromatic fmtll, like that of vale- 
rian, but more agreeable ; and a warm, 
bitteriili, pungent tafte. This root is 
a warm diaphoretic and diuretic: it 
has been greatly celebrated as an alex- 
ipharmac, and citeemed one of the 
pi incipal remedies in malignant fevers 
and epidemic difeafes. In thtfe inten- 
tions, it is given in fulillance from te.n 
to thiity grain<;, and in infufion to a 
dram or two. 

SNAIL-COD. A name given by 
Mr. Worlidge to a fpecies ofjnanure 
found at the bottom of deep rivers. It 
is a kind of mud or fledge, very fofr, 
Jul! cf wrinkles, and intermixed with 
many little fhells and fnails, to which 
ic is thought to owe a great part of its 
fatnefs. 

SNAPDRAGON, Su Calves 
Snout. 

American Snapdragon, \Kuell\a.'\ 
This plant grows naturally in the 
Weft-India Iflands and Carolina, it is 
propagated by feeds, but requires ths 
affiUance of a bark ftove. 

SNAP-TREE, l'^jujiiaa.\ This 
plant is a native of India, riling v^'ith 
a Ihrubby ftalk to the height of three or 
four feet, & is propagated by cuttings. 

SNATHE. The handle of a fcythe. 

SN'EEZEWORT, [PM.'wi.-fl.] This 
grows wild upon heaths and in moift 
Ihady places; the flowers, which are 
of a wiiite colour, come forth in June 
and July. The roots have an aciid 
fme!), and a hot biting talle : chewed, 
they occafion a plentiful difcharge of 
faliva ; and when powdered and fnufFtd 
up the nofe, provoke fneezina. Tiiefe 
arc the only intentions to which they 
have been nfually applied. 

SNOWDROP, \G.i:anthui:\ This 
flower is valued for it» early appear- 
ance in the fpring, for it ufually blows 
in February when the ground is often 
covered with fiiow. The fingle fort 
comes out the tirll, and though the 
flowers are but fmill, yet when the 
roots 



•' 



s o o 



Koots arc in bunches tliey make a very 
pretty appearancej tliertforc thefe roots 
fhould not be planted Tingle, as is fome- 
tiines practifed by way of edging to 
horderi ; for when they are fo diipofed, 
they make very little appearance. But 
when there are twenty or more roots 
growing in a clofe bunch, the tlowers 
have a very good effefl ; and as thefe 
tlowers tlirive well under trees or 
l>edges, they are very proper to plant 
on the fides of wood-walks, and in wil- 
dernefs quarters, where, if they are 
fti/fcrcd to remain undirturbed, the 
roots will multiply exceedingly. The 
rooti may be taken up the latter end of 
June, when their leaves decay, and 
may l)e kept out of tne ground till the 
end of Auguftj but they mult not be 
removed ottner than every third or 
fourtjj year : thefe plants are got fcarce 
in the gardens near London, 

Snowurcp-Tree, Se; Fsing£- 
Trze. 

SOA^» ASHES. 5« Ashes. 
SO^::'ANEL, [S:Manel/a.] This 
p' ■ .a native o: the Alps, and the 
r.i>jntaiHS of Germany, and may be 
propa. at;:d by parting the roots. 

UA TERSOLDIER, [ Strathtes. ] 
Wi'er Aloes, or Frefliwater Soldier. 
Tt,;: .ilint is like the aloes in fhspe, 
but ihc leaves arc t':inner and ferrated 
©n the edges very fharply. It grows 
natural!) in Itanding waters of the Ifle 
of Ely. and otiier parts o> England. 

SOi-OMoN's SEAL, [Po/ygciuitum.] 
This grows wild in weds, but is not 
very common : the root has feveral 
joinrs. with f'ime flat circular depref- 
fions, fuppofed to refembJe the ftamp 
oi a feal. It has a fweetilh mucilagi- 
nous taile. As to its virtues, prafti- 
tioners do not now expeft any confi- 
derable ones from it, and pay very lit- 
tle rega.-d to the vulnera.-y qualities 
ivhich it was formerly celebrated for, 

SOOT. Soot is of two general 
Kinds, the one, that which arifes from 
wood, the other that of coal. Thefe 
differ very much in many refpefts, but 
they are nearly the fame in their efFedts 
and value to the farmer. The wood 
foot is foJid and (hining, the coal foot 
loofer, and of a deader colour. The 
wood foot fells in London at a great 
price, in comparifon of the other, for 
the uf« of chymiAs and apothecaries, 
becaufe it is fcarccr, the fuel of Lon- 
VOL. II. 



s o o 

don being, In general, coal : but In 
the country, where this is as common 
and cheap as the other, the farmers 
rath«r prefer coal foot, 

Thofe who have written on hufban- 
dry, diff^er much in the kind to which 
they give the preference. Mortimer 
fays fea-coal foot is by much the belt, 
and Worlidge tells us, that foot is a 
good manure, efpecially fuch as is 
made of wood : thefe are both very ho- 
nelt and good wi iters 5 but experience 
is to be preferred to either. The truth 
is, that neither kind defer^'es a ge- 
neral preference, but that wood is 
better for fome foils, and coal foot 
for others. Indeed the latter is beft or» 
the greateft number of foils, and there- 
fore the farmer is right in valuing it 
the more. However, tliis difTerence 
is rot fo great, that any danger can 
arife from a miitake about it, for fuch 
land as will do well with one kind of 
foot, will alfo with another: all that 
the beft choice can do gives o.aly a 
little advantage. 

As to the fuiting the particular kinds 
of foot to the different foils, the rule is 
this. For all clayey, chalky, and 
mofTy lands, the coal foot is beft. And 
this is the reaCon why the coal foot is 
moft in repute in London for this traf- 
fick, becaufe theHcrtfordfhire far.mcrs, 
who buy it almoft entirely, have, for 
the moit part, clayey or chalky foils to 
cultivate. 

For gravelly, Tandy, and loamy foils, 
the wood foot is preferable to that of 
coal i and in its nature indeed this 
kind is better and richer than the other, 
becaufe, being made from a vegetable 
fubHance, it is richer and warmer than 
that other which comes from a mine- 
ral origin ; but the great reafon of the 
difference wliich fuits one kind to one 
foil, and another to another, is the con- 
fiftence. The wood foot is in firmer 
and harder lumps ; the coal foot is 
crumbly ; now in a clayey or a moffy 
foil, the lumps of the wood foot would 
lie a long time unbroken, whereas the 
coal foot breaks and mixes immedi. 
ately. Experience Ihews alfo, that the 
wood foot will lie in large pieces a long 
time in 2 chalky land ; whereas the 
gravelly fands, and fandy loams, 
cut and break it to pieces in two or 
three ploughings, and fpread and mix 
it thoroughly. 

S 3 SOPE. 



S O R 



SOW 



SOPEBERRY-TREE, [SafinJui.^ 
This plant grows naturally in the 
Wcft-ludies, and rifci with a woody 
llalk, to the height of 20 to 30 feet, 
bearing flowers in loofc foikes at tiie 
end of ita brand. ei, fucceeded by oval 
berries as laru;e as middling chtrrics ; 
the coverin_^ of tliefc berries is fonic- 
limL'S ufcd for foap towafh, when it 
is propagated by feeds. 

SOPEWORT, [Saoonaria.] This 
grows wild, though not very common, 
in low wet places, and by the lides of 
running waters; a double ftowered 
fort is frequent in our gardens. The 
leaves have a bitter, not agreeahle 
taflc ; agitated with water, they raife 
a faponacccus froth, which is faid to 
liave nearly the fame effciSls with folu- 
tions of foap itfelt in taking out fpots 
from cloths, and the like. The roots 
tarte fweetidi and fomewhat pungent ; 
and ha%'e a light fmell like thofs of li- 
quorice : digelied in reftitied fpirit they 
yield a itrong tindure, which lofes no- 
thing of irs tade or flavour in being 
infpifiated to the confiftence of an ex- 
trad. This elegant root has not come 
much jnto praiSice among us, though 
it promifes, from its fenilt^le qualities, 
ro be a niedicine of confiderable uti- 
Jity : it is greatly efteemed by the Ger- 
man phyfTcians a» an aperient, corro- 
Viorant, and fudorific : and preferred 
h) the college cf Wirtemberg, S:a!ii, 
-N'enmanr. and others, to farfaparilla. 
SORREL, [Acetcfa.'] Sorrel grows 
wild in fields and n.eadows through- 
out England. The leaves have a re- 
Jlringent acid nfte, without any fmell 
or particular f.avour : their nic'dical 
effefts are, to cool, quench thirft, and 
promote the urinary difcharge : a de- 
coftion cf them in whey affords an 
L'fcful and agieeable drink in frebile 
or infianimatory diforders : and is re- 
commended by Boerhave to be ufed in 
r'ic fpring as one of t!ie nioft efi'icaci- 
ous aperients and detergents. Some 
kinds of fcuivies have yielded to the 
continued ufe of this medicine : the 
< ;reen!&ndcrs, who are very fubjett to 
I'iis dirtemper, are foid to cniploy, 
with good fuccefs, a mixture of tht 
juices of fcrrcl and cf fcurvygraCs. The 
only otRcinal prepai Jtion of ihi.^ plant 
Is an elfential fait from the juice of the 
leaves. 

W :• 3 D S s R £ I ) [/,«;■«/<».] Thii is 



a fmall plant, growing wild in woods. 
In tulle and medical qualities, it is 
fimilar to the common fotrtl,but con- 
fiderably more gratetui, and hence is 
preferred by the London coilca;e. Boiled 
with milk, it forms an agreeable whey ; 
and beaten with fugar, a very elegant 
conftrve, which has been for fome 
time kept in the fhops, and is now re- 
ceived in the difpenfatory. 

SOURSOP. SeeCi/y?flrrf Apple. ' 

soil.. A general name for all forts ^ 
of land . Jc4i //icn^irf' - P/T-^/^fT<J*^ 

"SOUREAlvD, A cold, hungry, 
clayey foil. 

SOUTHERNWOOD, \Abrotanum 
Mas.'\ This is a fhrubby plant, clothed 
with very finely divided leaves, of a 
grcyifh '^reen colour: ti.e flowers, 
which are very finall and yellowifh, 
hang downwards, feveral together, 
from the middle of the branches to tht 
top. It is a native of the warmer 
countries; in this it is cultivated in 
garden!) : the leaves fall off every win- 
ter : the roots and Aalks abide many 
years. 

Southernwood has a ftrong, not 
very dir:igreeable fmell ; and a naufe- 
0U3, pungent, bitter tafie ; which is 
totally exuafted by reflified fpiiit, lefs 
perfe^ly by watery liquors. It is re- 
cammci)>!cd as an anthelmintic ; and 
in cold leuccphlegmatic habits, as a 
ItimuUr.t, detergent, aperient, and fu- 
dorific. The prefent pradlice has aU 
mofl entirely confined its ufe to exter- 
nal applications. The leaves are fre- 
quently employed in difcutient and an- 
tifeptic fomentations ; and have beea 
recommended alfo in lo:ions and un- 
guents for cutaneous eruptions, and 
the falling off of the hair. 

SOW. The female of the fwine. / 

SOWING. The aCt cfdiftributing ^/ 

feed on tlie ground to produce a crop.-^^ 

SOWBREAD, [r>,:.flw<«.] This 
plant is met with in the gardens of the 
curious. The root has, when Crefh, 
an exrremely acrimonious burning 
tafle, which it almoft entirety lofes 
on being dried. It is recommended as 
an e/ Thine; in cataplafms forfchirrous 
and Icrophulous tumours ; and inter- 
nally as a cathartic, dctengent, and 
aperient ; it operates very (lowly, but 
with great virulence, inflaming the 
fauces and inteAines; and hence is 
defervcdly rcjeftcd from the London 
oifpcr.fa- 



SPA 

difpenfatory, though retained In that 
Edinhur^h. 

SOWtHISTLE, [Sonc'ius.] This 
is a trcublcfome weed both in pa-dens 
and fields, and fhould be taken care 
cf, that the feeds be not fiiffered to ri- 
pen, and be fcattered by the wind. 

SPANISH NUT. See File7.rt. 

SpAVisH Rosemary, [ Ai^rrjofj.] 
Sparrovc-wort. This plant jrows natu- 
rally at the Cape of Good Hope, rifinfj 
with a (hrubby ftalk five or fix feet 
Iiigli, and may be propagated iiy cut- 
tintrs; fhelteringthe plants in the ^'-ccn- 
houfe during winter. 

Spani-sk BaooM, [^Sf:arrium.'} This 

filant lias long held a place in the Enf- 
ifti gardens, and is eafily propagated 
hy feeds. There are feveral fpecics 
kept for variety. 

Spanish Elder. See Sfren'Jh 
Elder. 

SpANijH PicKTooTi?, \1^if>iaga.'\ 
A fpecies of carrot, growing naturally 
in Spain and Italy ; the footrtalks of 
the flowers are ufed as tooth-prcks. 

Spanish Marjoram, \Ui}'tc.i Dc- 
djrtia.l This is a fpecies of nettle, 
growing naturally in Spain, and is eafily 
propat^Hted by feeds. 

SPADE. A well-known Inflru- 
ment ufed in digging. 

SPAN'CEL. ^ roye to tye a cows 
hinder legs. yrfreilfS^' 

SPATLING-POPPy. See Chick- 
weed. 

SPARSED-LEAVES. Are ihofe 
■\vhich are placed irregularly about the 
feveral parts of a plant. 

SPAVIN. A difeafe in horfes, be- 
ing a fwelling in or near fome of the 
joints, that caufes a lamenefs. 

There are two kinds of fpavin, 
■^ callid ablood-fpavin,and a bog-fpavin, 
A blood-fpavin is a fwelling and di- 
latation of the rein that runs along the 
infide oi the hock, forming a little foit 
fwelling in the hollow parr, and is of- 
ten attended with a weaknefs and lame- 
nefs of the hock. 

The cure fhould be firft attempted 
with reftringents and bandage, wliich 
will contribute greatly to flrengthen 
'all weakncffes of the joints, and fre- 
quently will remove this diforder, if 
early applied : but if by thtfe means 
the vein is not reduced to its ufual di- 
menfions, the (kin (hould be opened, 
and the vein lied with a crooked nee- 
dle and wax tliread palTed underneath 



S P A 

cpx, hrth above and below the fijvelling, 
and the turgid part fuftered to digelt 
a.vay with the ligatures : for this pur- 
pofe, the wound may be drcfild with 
turpentine, honey, and fpirit of wine, 
incorporated together. 

A bog-fpavin is an encyAetl tumour 
on the infide the hough, or, acCor^ling 
t') Dr. Bracken, a colleflion of brown- 
ifh gelatinous matter, contained in a 
bag, or c)ft, which he thinks to be 
the lubricating matter of the joint al- 
tered, the crmmcn membrane that in- 
clofes it forming the cyR : this cafe 
he has taken the pains to iliuftrate in 
a youngcnit of his own, where he fays, 
when the fpavin was prefled hard on 
the infide of the hough, th»rre was a 
fmall tumour on the outlide, vi'hich 
convinced h'tn the fluid was witliin- 
fide the joint : he accordingly cut into 
it, difch;Tged a large quantity of this 
gelatinous matter, dreffed the fore witli 
dofTils dipped in oil of turpentine, put- 
ting into it, once in th.reeorfour day^, 
a powder made of calcined vitriol, al- 
lum and bole : by this method of dref- 
fing, the bag floughed off, and came 
away, ant^ the cure was fuccefjfully 
compleated without any vifible fear. 

This diforder, according to the above 
c'efcriprion, will fcarrely fubmit to any 
other method, except firing, when the 
cyft ought to be penetrated to make it 
effeflual ; but in all ubrtinate czfes 
that have refilled the above methods, 
both the cure cf this, and thefwellirgs 
called wind-galls, (hould, we think, be 
attempted in tliis manner. If, tlirough 
the pain attending the operation or 
dreflings, the joint fhculd fwell and 
inflame, foment it twice a day, and 
apply a poultice over the dreflfings till 
it is rt-diiced. 

SPAVING, The operation cf caf- 
trating the females of feveral kinds of 
animals, asfows, bitjhes, &c, to pre- 
vent any farther conception, and pro- 
mote their fattening. 

It is performed by cutting them in 
the mid flank, on the left fide, with a 
fl'.arp knife or lancet, taking out the 
uterus and cutting it off, and fo liitch- 
ing up the wound, anointing the part 
with tar, anH keeping the animal warm 
for two or three days. The ufual way 
is to make the incifion aHcpe two 
inches aril a half long, that the fore 
finger may be put in towards the back 
S f 2 to 



S P E 



S P I 



to feel for the ovaries, which are two 
kernels as big as acorns on both fides 
of the uterus, one of which is drawn 
to the wound, tiie rtring thereof cut, 
and thus both taken out. 
A.7«£i SPEAR. See Asphodel, 
Spear Mint. See Mint, 
SPEEDWELL, [rcronka.] There 
are feveral fpecies of this plant grow- 
ing wild in different parts of the king- 
dom, as alfo in other parts of Europe, 
the Female Speedwell is admitted into 
the Materia Medica, as is alfo the Male 
Speedwell. The Male Speedwell is a 
rough procun-ibent plant, not unfre- 
quently met with on dry commons, 
and in fsndy grounds. In laile, fmell, 
and medical virtues, it is fimilar to 
the betonica, of wliich in its place: 
though tlie veronica is coir.monly fup- 
pofiid to have more of an aperient and 
perioral virtue, and betony to be ra- 
ther nervine and cephalic. Hoffman 
and Jc!i. Francus have written exprefs 
treatifes on this plant, recommending 
infufions of it, drank in the form of 
tea, as very falubrious in many difor- 
dtrs, particularly thofe of the breaft. 
For Female Speedwell, fee F l u e l l i n . 
SPELT. The name of a fpecies of 
grain, which though commonly reck- 
oned a fummer corn, is fowed either 
in autumn or in the fpring, at the fame 
time as wlieat and rye. This grain, 
of which there are two forts, one with 
a fingle, and the other with a double 
chaff, though both have always two 
feeds in each hulk, was formerly much 
efteemed in Italy and Egypt, and is 
row very common in Germany, where 
they make of it bread, which is very 
nourKhing and well tafted, but hard to 
digeft. They likewife bre<v beer from 
it in fome places. It was of this grain 
that the ancients made their frumenty, 
of which they were very fond. Though 
commonly ranked as a fpecies of wheat, 
which it is not unlike when growing, 
Its grain is fmaller and of a blackifli 
liuc, its ftalk thinner and lefs firm, and 
its ear fiat and bearded, with feeds 
only on each fide. Some writers dif- 
tinguifh a third fort, by the name of 
white-rye, which they take to be the 
olyra of the Greeks and Latins; and 
feems to be what Mr. Mortimer calls 
taitico-fpeltum, a fort of naked barley, 
or wheat barley, cultivated in Stafford- 
/hire, (haped lilce barley, but with a 



grain like wheat. It is much fown at 
Rowley, Hamftal, and Redmore, 
wlicre they call it French harley. It 
makes good bread r.ud good malt, and 
yields a good increafe ; and therefore 
would do well to be tried in othtr 
places. It ripens early, does beft in a 
dry foil, and is not apt to be much 
hurt by liirds, from whidi its beard 
and double hufk preferve it. 

SPiDERWORT. See Jfrican As- 
phodel. 

SPIGNEL, [Aihamarta.] SpigncI 
is an unbelliferous plant, found wild 
in Italy, and the warmer parts of Eu- 
rope, and fometimes alfo in England. 
The roots have a pleafant aromatic 
fmell, and a warm, pungent, bitteri/h 
tafte : in virtue, they are fimilar to 
the Lovage, from which this root feems 
to differ only in being weaker, and 
fomevvhat mere agreeable. It is an 
ufeful aromatic and carminative, iho' 
at prefcnt littic regarded. 
SPIKE. A large nail. 

f 'r > See Lcvetidir, 

Spike Lavender. J 

SPINACH, [Splnada.] A well- 
known plant, cultivated in kitchen 
gardens. 

It requires a rich, liglit, and well 
loofened foil. It is propagated by its 
feeds only, of which there are two 
forts, namely, the rough and prickly, 
which produces the prickly fpinacU 
with arrow-pointed leaves, and the 
fmooth, from which fprings the fpi- 
nach with oblong oval leavts. 

The (Qii6i of the firft of thefe kinds, 
which is by much the hardieft, and 
therefore fitted to be cultivated for 
winter ufe, fhould be fown upon an 
open fpot of ground, in Auguft, jufl 
before a fhower of rain, if it can luck- 
ily be fo timed : for if the feafon fhould 
prove dry for a long while after the 
fowing, many of them will not fprout 
at all, and the plants of thofe that do 
grow will come up fo irregularly, that 
half the crop will frequently be lofl. 
It therefore is highly advifeable to wa- 
ter thtfe feeds within two or three days 
after their being fown, if rain does not 
fall in the mean lime. 

When the plants begin to be ftrong, 
the ground on which they grow fhould 
be well hoed, to de(\roy the weeds, 
and to thin the plants to the dif^ance 
of three or four inches afunderr. This, 

like 



S P I 

1-ke all other hoeings, fliould always 
be performed in dry weather, the iiioie 
effc^ually to kill the west's : or, if it 
be rainy, they Ihould be c.irHed off tl-.c 
ground as foon as they ait: cut up, to 
prevent their taking frefh rcot : for if 
many of them fi-ring up. and the fca- 
fon prcvewet, they will flifietlie plants 
of the fpinach, and make tliem rot. 
A ferond careful hoeir.;^ is tjjerefore 
iiecclTary in about a month or five 
weeks after the lird ; and witli tiie 
'cip of tliis the fpinach will begin to 
l.e fit for ufe l>y the end of Odlober. 
The bert way of gatheiing it is, to 
crop off cnly the iargell outer leaves, 
and to leave the middle ones to grow 
M?ger: for by this means a regular 
fjpply may be had during the v. hcle 
winter, and even till the fubfequent 
fpring fowing fhall have prcduced 
plants large enougli for ufe, which ge- 
nerally is in April. 'J'he winter fpi- 
nach will aifo then be ready to run \in, 
and Should thereiore be entirely cleared 
ofF, unlefs a parcel be left for feed, if 
wanted. Cut if early cabbages, which 
will wart eariliing up, have been 
planted among this fpinacli, as is the 
tifual praftice of the gardeners about 
London, a Up .rate fmall fpotof grou.nd 
(hc'jjd be allotted purpofcly for fowing 
feme of this fpinach for feed, witiiout 
any otlier plants among it, and to cut 
tip all tiie remains of the other wjnter 
crop, as foon as ti)e fpring fpinach is 
fit for ufe. 

The oblong oval leaved fpinach, 
Commonly called plantain fpinac!), 
whith has thicker leaves and more fuc- 
culent ftalks than the former fort, is 
fown in the fpring, tikewife upon an 
open fpot of fire rich earth. The 
London gardeners, who always endea- 
vour to have as many crops in a feafon 
as they poffibie can, generally mix ra- 
di(h feed with thofe of the fpinach 
which they fow at this feafon : but the 
belt way for tliofe who liave ground 
enough, is to fow their fpinach feeds 
alone. This crop mufl be hoed, cleared 
from weeds, and thinned, in the min- 
rer before direifled for the winter fpi- 
nach ; and when the plants, which 
were at firft loft three or four inciies 
afunder, b.ave grown fo ai to meet, it 
will be right to cut them cut here and 
there for ufe, and to thin them in this 
manner, as they are vva.'iced for ibe ta. 



S P I 

Me, ti'.l thrfe tliat are left fland eight 
orten inches afunder. The thinnings 
in the mean time will give the re- 
maining plants room to fpread ; and 
if, after this laft, the ground be- 
tween iliem is well Hirred to a good 
depth, and kept peifedlly clear from 
weeis, this fort of fpinach will fre- 
quently produce leaves as large as thofe 
of the bread -leaved dock, and extreme- 
ly fine. 

A fucceffion of fpinach may be iiad 
throughout the whole feafon, by fow- 
ing it every three weeks, from about 
the middle of January to near tlie end 
of May ; only obferving, that the ear- 
litft fowings mud be upon the natu- 
rally drieft foils, and that the lateil 
fhould be thinned moft at their fird 
hoeing, becaufe the remains of the 
former crops will furnilh a fupply 
till thefe are fuli grown, and the plants 
will not be fo apt to nm up to feed 
when they ftsnd a: a diftance from 
each other, as when they are clofe to- 
gether. 

In order to have good feeds of fpi- 
nach, each particular fort fliou'd be 
fown by itfelf, in an open fpot of rich 
and well dug v,Tound. This fowing 
fhculd be in f ebtuary, as fot.n as the 
darjgcr of the froft is over ; and when 
the plants are come up, iliey fhould 
be thinned with a lioe tiil they are fix 
or eight inches afunder every way. A'A 
weeds fhould at the fame time be care- 
fully cut up and carried off: and in 
about three weeks or a month after 
this, the plants fhould be hoed and 
thinned a fecond time. Their diftance 
from eacii other Ihculd then be en- 
larged to at leaft twelve or fourteen 
inches : for they will cover the ground 
very fuflkiently aft'.r they have (hot: 
out their fide branciies. Particular 
care is rtqnifite at this time to L'eep 
them very clear from weeds; becaufe 
thefe would make the plants of fpi- 
nach lun up weak, and thereby greatly 
injure them. 

Mr. Milier is here extremely judicji 
CU5 in his direftioRS for the farther 
management of fpinach intended for 
feed. " When th.e plants, fays he, 
hive run up to flower, you will eafily 
perceive two forts among them, viz. 
male and female. The male will pro- 
duce fpikei of ftaminecus flowers, 
which contain the farina, and are ab- 
fclutely 



S (^U 

Jtliongh It is a much Iow€r plant tli.in 
the common foir, I->ut iliey efttfemit 
a much better grafs. The feed"! of 
this kind are fmallcr and flatter than 
^liofe of the common fort, and iiave a 
white border round each, 

Ts SPRIT. To ihoot or fprout, as 
<oin in veaietation, 

SPARii^EWAY. A horfe - way 
through inclofed lands, 

SPROUrHILL. Anthill. 

SQUASH. See Gourd. 

SQUILL, [S.Wj.] There are two 
foT'.i, one with a red, and the other a 
white root, which are fcppoled to be 
accident.-jl varieties, but the white are 
generally preferred for medicinal ufc. 
Tiir roots are large, fon-)ewhat oval- 
fliaped, compcfed of ma;y coats, ly- 
ing over each other like onions ; at the 
t)ottom come out feveral fibres. From 
f he middle of the root arife feveral fhin- 
ing leaves, wliich continuegreeo all the 
winter, and decay in the fprini;; then 
the flower-ftalk comes out, whi;h rifes 
two feet hig!;, is naked half way, and 
terminated by a pyramidal thyrfe of 
ilou-ers, which are white, compofed 
of fix petals, which fpread open like 
the points of a l\ar. This grows na- 
turally en the fea-fiicres, and in the 
ditclies, where the fait water flows 
with the tide, in moft of the warm 
parts of Europe, fo cannot be propa- 
gated in gardens, the froft in winter 
always dedroying the roots, and for 
'vant of fait water they do not thrive in 
:ummer. Sometimes the roots, which 
are biou^ht for ufe, put out their tiem?, 
and produce flowers without being 
planted in earth, as they lie in the 
druggiils (hops. 

The root for medicinal ufe (hould 
be chofen plump, found, frefh, and 
full of a clammy juice; forr.e have pre- 
ferred the red fort, others the white, 
though neither deferves the preference 
to the other ; the only difference per- 
ceivable betwixt them, is that of the 
colour; and hence the college sllow 
botli to be ufcd promifcuoufiy. This 
root is to the tafte very naufeous, in- 
renfely bitter and acrin^onioos: much 
hindisd, it exulcerates the li^in. With 
■.•tgard to its medical virtues, it pow- 
erfully flimiiUtes the folids, and atte- 
piiates vifcid juices ; and by liiefe qua- 
lifies, promotss e.'jpeftoraticn, urine, 
and (if the paiieru is kef: w^r.-n) 



S T A 

f^veat : if tiie dofe is confid'erafcle, It 
proves emetic, and fometimc* purga- 
tive. Th: pi incipal ufe of this medi- 
cine is wiiere the pri.-ux vi;e abound 
with mucous matter, and the lungs 
are opp'-e/fcd by tenacious phlegm. 
Dr. Wagner (in his clinical obfervati- 
ons) recommends it piven along with 
nitre, in hydropical fwelilnj^, and ia 
the nephriii-)} and mention^ feveral 
cures which he performed, by gi- 
ving fro.-n four to ten grains of the 
powder for a dofe, mixed with a dou- 
ble quantity of nitre: he fays, that 
thus managed, it almoft always ope- 
rates as a diuretic, though fom£ticie» 
it vomits or purges. Tlie mofl com-, 
modiqus form for the taking of fquills, 
unlefs when defigned as an emetic, is 
that of a bolus or pill : liquid forms 
are to mod people tea ofrenfi ve, though 
thefe may be rendered lefs dif.ttreeabie 
both to the palate and flomach, by the 
addition of aromatic dilHUed waters. 

There are feveral fpecies of fquills, 
kept for the beauty of their flowers, 
bejides thofe for medicinal purpofes ; 
among which are the flowers called the 
.Stariy Hyacinth, and the Hyacinth of 
Pc.u ; they are all hardy, and propa- 
gated hy feeds or offsets, 

STABBING of Cattle. See Hovin. 

STAGGERS. See Apoplexv. ^-. 

STAFF ■J'/'Cf. 5c-f Spl NRLB TREE. 

STAGGERWOR T. Set Ragwort. 

STAKE. A piece of wood, or a 
ilrong ftick fixed in the ground. 

STALE. Urine. 

STALK,. The fiem or flock of a 
plant. 

STALL. A crib at which an ox is 
fed. or where any horfe is kept in a 
fiabls. 

STAti-rrp. Fed with dry feed, 
not with grafs, 

STALLIOM. A ftcne horfe, de- 
figned for the covering of marfs, in 
order to propagate the fpe(;ies. 

STAMINA. Thofe'ftne threads or 
c^pillaments growing up within the 
flowers of tulips, lillies, and moii othet 
plants, around tlie ftyle or piftil. " 

STAMINEQUS. An epithet ap- 
plied to thofe lowers of plants wiiicli 
have no petals or flower-leaves, but 
ccnfifi only of a number of llamina and 
piitiis placed in a cup. 

STAM WOOD. The roots of trees 
grabbed up, 

STANDARDS, 



S T A 

STANDARDS, cr Standrils. 
Voung trees referved at the felling of 
woods, for the growth of timber. 

Standards. Fruit-trees, intended 
to grow in an open expofure, and not 
to be hacked and mangled with the 
knife, as the dwarf trees, and thofe 
planted againrt walls are. 

Thefe flocks fhould not exceed two 
years growth from the bud or graft 
when they are planted. They fhouJd 
be fartened to (takes till they have ac- 
quired fufficient ftrength not to be in 
danger of being blown down. 

STANK, ^damiwor bank to ftop 
water. ^ %^/t A » 

STAPs. APPLE, [CbryfepJtiHum.'] 
This trte ?iows naturally in the Weft- 
Indies, rlJii.g to the height of thirty or 
forty feet, bearing an auftere Iruit 
-about the fize of a golden pippin, 
which however becomes mellow and 
agreeable by keeping. It is propaga- 
ted by feeds, but in England requires 
the general affiftance of tender exotics. 
Star ef Btlh'.ckem, \Orr,itkcgalum.'\ 
This plant grows naturally near Brif- 
tol, and feme other parts of England, 
It has a pretty large bulbous root, from 
which come out feveral long keel- 
fhaped leaves, which fpread on the 
ground. There are feveral other fpe- 
cies growing naturally in Spain, Por- 
tugal, Africa, and Arabia. 

STARCH. The fineft parts of 
wheat flour, manufaflured into cakes. 
Star Hyacinth. See Sq_«ill. 
STARWORT. See Astir. 
YeU<nu Starwort. Elecampane. 
STAVES ACRE, [Siaph..i[fagTia.] 
This is a fpecies of the larkfpur, grow- 
ing naturally in the Levant and fomc 
parts of Italy, The feeds are large and 
rough, of an irregular triangularfigure, 
of a blackirti colour on the outfide, and 
yellowifti or v.hitirti within ; they are 
ufually brought from Italy, the plant 
is not very common in this country, 
though it bears our fevereft colds. 
Tliey have a difagreeabie fmell, and a 
very naufeous bitterirti burning tafte, 
Stavefacte was employed by the anci- 
ents as a cathartic j but it operates 
with fo much violence both upwards 
and downwards, that its internal ufc 
has been, among thegenerality of prac- 
titioners, for fome time laid afide. It 
is chiefly employed, in external appli- 
cations, for fome kind ot cutantOLs 

V,. ... :[. 



S T O 

eruptions, and for dcrtroying lice and 
other InfecTs J infomuch, that it has 
from this virtue received its name in 
different languages, ha-ha ftJLu/ariSf ^ 
heitt a:x fcux, lakfskrauty kujetocrl. « Apc /£ *^ 

STEE. A ladder. /* V a 

STLM. That part of a plant ari- '^^ »'7*' ' 
fing ir ;m the root, and which fullains 
the leaves, flowers, fruits, &c. , , 

STEEPS. Certain preparations for ^'^f^X/zU 
fteepin; of com intended to be fown. «k /-///^/>/ e 
STELE. A ftalk, a handle. . ^ 

STE ER. A young bullock. i'/i£r/t<!. .' "^ 
STEG. A gander. 
STERCORARY. A colleaion of 
dung properly fecured from any inju- 
ries of the weather. 

STERILE. Barren, unfruitful. 
STEW. Afmali kindof filh-pond, 
the peculiar intention of which is to 
maintain firti, and keep them for the 
daily ufes of a family. 

STICKADORE, 5,y Cassidon v. 
STOCK. The trunk or body of a 
fruit-tree, into which the graft, or bud 
is inferted. 

Stock GiLtirtowz*. 5« Git- 
L I r L o w E I . 

Dwarf Stock GiLtirLowEB, 
Dame's violet. 

STONE. A certain quantity or 
weight of fome commodities. 

A ftone of beef in London is the 
quantity of eight pounds; in Here- 
ford/hire, twelve pounds ; in the north 
16 pounds; in other parts, 14 pounds. 
A f^one of wool, according to a fta- 
tute made in the eleventh year of the 
reign of Henry VII. is to weigh four- 
teen potmds, but in fome places it is 
more, in others lefs; as in Glocefter- 
fhire fifteen pounds, in Hereford/hire 
twelve pounds. 

A ftone, among horfemen, Is the 
weight of fouiteen pounds. 

Stone Break. A perennial plant 
common in pafture grounds. The 
root has a faarpilhand aromatic tafte. 
The ftalks are round, ftreaked, and 
reddifh towards the bottom. The 
leaves are fmooth, of a dark green, and 
divided twice into long, narrow, Oiarp 
fegmrnts. The foot-ftalks are mem- 
braneous at the bafe. The flowers 
grow in loofe umbels ; and are of a pale 
yellow colour. The feeds are oval, 
ftreaked, and red at the top. 

Stony l.ar.dt. Such as are full of 
faints, pelbiesj or fmall fragments of 
T c free- Hone. 



S T O 



S T O 



frtCrftone. Thefe lands, in many pla- 
ces, yield good crops, and the general 
rule is, that in (^iff and cold lands the 
rtones ('hould be as carefully picked out 
as pofTiSle, but in light and dry grounds 
they fliould be left. In Oxfordrtiire 
they have great quantities of a lean 
earth, and a fmall rubble ftone, or a 
four fort of land mixed with it ; this is 
fometimes very full of weeds, and 
fometimes very clear of them. If they 
are weedy they fallow them late ; but 
if they arc fcary, as they call it, that 
is, it they have a fward upon them, 
they either fold them in winter, and 
add fome hay-feed to the fheep's dung, 
to bring up the grafs; or elfe they lay 
old thatch or draw, and dung upon it; 
for they reckon that if thofe lands have 
ro fward upon them before they are 
fallowed, they will by no means be 
brought to bear a good crop, but a great 
deal of May-weed, and other ufelei's 
weeds. In September, November, and 
December, they fallow as the fward 
direds them ; if this be done in either 
of the two laft months, fhey call it a 
winter fallowing ; and never rtir it 
again, till they plow it, and fow it with 
barley ; and thofe lands are reckoned 
to do better than if finely tilled. They 
will bear wheat and meflin in a kindly 
year, and large crops of barley, if they 
are well managed, and kept in good 
heart. 

•They always fallow thefe lands every 
other year, unlefs they fow peafe upon 
them ; fometimes they fow them with 
lentils, and when they are quite worn 
out, they lay jthcm do»n for elf ver^or 
reygrafs. *'i< • QtnvS-i ^i^Ht^, 
Stone Crop. Wall pepper. 
Free Stone Crop. Gcofe foot. 
STOOMINGo/fZ-'m^. Putting hags 
of herbs, or other ingredients into it. 
STOOP. A port fixed in the earth. 
STOT. A young bullock ; a fteer. 
STOVES. BuiMings erefttd in gar- 
dens for the prefervaticn of tender 
exotic plants, which will not live in 
thefe northern countries, without arti- 
ficial warmth in winter, Thefe are 
buiii in different methods, according to 
theln^enuity of tlie artiO, or the dif- 
ferent pxirpoies for which they are in- 
tended ; but in England they are at 
prefent reducible to two. 

The firft is called a dry ftove, being 
fo ccntrived, that tiiC flues through 



which the fmoke pafTes arc cither car- 
ried under the pavement of the floor, 
or elfe are erefled in the back part of 
the houfe» over each other, and arc re- 
turned 6 or 8 times the whole length of 
the rtove. In thefe ftoves are com- 
monly placed the tender forts of aloes, 
cereus's, euphorbiums, tithymals, and 
other fucculent plants, which are im- 
patient of moifturc in winter; and 
therefore require, for the molt part, to 
be kept in a feparate ftove, and not 
placed among trees, or herbaceous 
plants, which perfpire freely, and 
thereby often caufe a damp air in the 
houfe, whiclvis imbibed by the fuccu- 
lent plants, to their no fmall prejudice. 

Thefe ftoves may be regulated by a 
thermometer, fo as not to over-heat 
them, nor to let the plants fuffer by 
cold ; in order to which all fuch planft 
as require nearly the fame degree of 
heat, Ihould be placed by therr.felves 
in a feparate houfe; for if in the fame 
ftove there are plants placed of many 
different countries, which require as 
many different heats, by making the 
houfe warm enough for fome plants, 
others, by having too much heat, are 
drawn and fpoiled. 

The other forts of (loves are com- 
monly called bark floves, to diftin- 
guifli tliem from the dry ftoves already 
mentioned. Thefe have a large pit, 
nearly the length of the houfe, three 
feet deep, and fix or feven feet wide, 
according to the breadth of the houfe ; 
which pit is filled with frefli tanner's 
bark, to make an hot-bed ; and in this 
bed the pots of the molt tender exotic 
trees, and herbaceous plants, are plun- 
ged : the heat of this bed being mode- 
rate, the roots of the plants are always 
kept in aftion ; and the moiflure, de- 
tained by the bark, keeps the fibres of 
their roots in a dudtile ftate, which, in 
the dry ftove, where they are placed on 
(helves, are fubjeft to dry too fait, to 
the great injury of the plants. In thefe 
ftoves, if they are rightly contrived, 
may be prefervtd the moft tender exo- 
tic trees and plants, which, before the 
ufe of the bark was introduced, were 
thought impoffible to be kept in Eng- 
land; but, as there is fome (kill requi- 
red in the ftrudture of both theft ftoves, 
we fh^U defcribe them as inteiligiiily as 
j'oflitile, particularly the bark itove ; 
bv which it is hoped every curious 
perfon 



S T O 



S T O 



pcrfon will be capable of dlreAlns his 
workmen In their ftrufture. 

The dimenlion of this ftove fhould 
be proportioned to the number of 
plants intended to be preferved, or the 
particular fancy of the owner; but 
their length (hould not exceed forty 
feet, unlefs there arc two fire-places; 
and in that cafe, it will be proper to 
make a partition of glafs in the middle, 
and to have two tan-pits, that there 
may be two different heats for plants 
from different countries, for the rea- 
fons before given in the account of dry 
Jloves; and a range of ftoves, they 
Aould be all built in one, and only 
divided with glafs partitions, at leart 
the half way toward the front; which 
will be of great advantage to the plants, 
becaufe they may have the air in each 
divifion fhifted by Aiding the glaffes 
of the partitions, or by opening the 
glafs-door, which fhould be made be- 
tween each divifion, for the more 
cafy pafTage from one to the other. 

This (love fhould be raifed above 
the level of the ground, in proportion 
to the drynefs of the place ; for, if it 
be built on a moift fituation, the 
whole fhould be placed upon the top 
of the ground j fo that the brick-work 
in the front muft be raifed three feet 
above the furface, which is the depth 
of the bark-bed, whereby none of the 
bark will be in danger of lying in 
water; but, if the foil be dry, the 
brick work-in front need not be more 
than one foot above-ground, and the 
pit may be funk two feet below the 
furface. Upon the top of this brick 
work, in front, muft be laid the plate 
of timber, into which the wood work 
of the frame is to be mortifed; and 
the upper timber in front muft be 
placed four feet afunder, or fomewhat 
more, which is the proportion of the 
width of the glafs-doors or fafhes : 
thefe (hould be about fix feet and a 
half, or feven feet long, and placed 
upright; but from the top of thefe 
fhould be floping glaflcs, which (hould 
reach within three teet of the back of 
the ftove, where there fhould be a 
ftrong crown-piece of timber placed, 
in which there (houlH be a groove 
made for the glalTes to (lide into. The 
wall 'in the back part of the f^ove 
fhould be at lealt thirteen inches thick ; 
but eighteen inches is ftill better j be- 



caufe, the thicker the cutfide w^l is 
built, the more the heat of the flues 
will be kept in the houfe ; and carried 
up, about nine feet above the furface 
of the bark-bed; and from the top of 
this wall, there (hould be a floping 
roof to the crown-piece where the 
glalTes Aide in. This crown-piece 
fhould be about fixteen feet high from 
the furface of the bark-bed oi floor, 
which will give a fufRcient declivity to 
the (loping gla(rcs to carry off tie wet, 
and be of a reafonable height for con- 
taining many tall plants. The b.ick 
roof may be dated, covered with lead, 
or tiled, according to the fancy of the 
owner: for the manner of this outlide 
building is often very various, and 
differently built. 

In the front of the houfe there 
(hould be a walk, about eighteen or 
twenty inches wide, for the conveni- 
cncy of walking ; next to which the 
bark pit muft be placed, which (hould 
be in width proportioned to the breadth 
c( the houfe: if the houfe is twelve 
feet wide, which is a due proporiion, 
the pit may he feven feet wide ; and 
behind the pit ihould be a walk eight- 
een inches wide, to pafs In order to 
water the plants, &c. then there will 
be twenty-two inches left next the 
back wall, to ereft tiie flues, wliich 
muft be all raifed above the top of the 
bark-bed ; thefe flues ouicht to be one 
foot wide^n the clear, that t!iey may 
not he too foon ftopped with the foot; 
and the lower flue, into which the 
fmoke firlt enters from the fire, ihor.ld 
be two feet deep in the clear ; and this 
may be covered either with caft-iron 
plates, or broad tiles ; over this the 
fecond flue muft be returned back 
again, which may be eighteen inches 
deep, and covered on the top as before; 
and fo, in like manner, the flues may 
be returned over each other three or 
four times, that the heat may be fpent 
before the fmoke pafTes off. The 
thicknefs of the wall in front of thefe 
flues need not be more than four 
inches; but it muft be well jointed 
with mortar, and plaiftered within 
fide to prevent the fmoke from getting 
into the houfe ; and the outfide fhould 
be faced with mortar, and coveied 
with a coarfe cloth, to keep the mortar 
from cracking, as is praftifed in fetting 
up coppers, if this be carefully done 
T t 2 ther 



S T O 



S T O 



tlicrc will be no danger of the fmoke 
tniering the houfe, which cannot be 
too caiefully avoided; for there is 
nothing more injurious to plants than 
fmoke, which will caufc tliem to drop 
their leaves j and if it continue long 
in the houfe, will entirely deflroy 
them. 

The fire place may be made either at 
one end, or in the middle, according 
as there is mofl convenienry ; for, 
\vhereever it is placed, it fhould liave 
a Ihed over it, and not be txpofed to 
the open air j for it will be impofTible 
to make the fire burn equally, where 
the wind has lull ingrcfs to it; and it 
will be troubJtfome to attend the lire 
In wet weather, where it is txpofed to 
the rain. 

The contrivance of the furnace muft 
be according to the fuel which is de- 
signed to burn ; but as turf is the beft 
firing fcr floves, where it can be had, 
becaufe it burns more moderately, and 
Jails longer than any other fort of fuel, 
and fo requires lefs attendance, I fhall 
dcfcribe a proper fort of furnace for 
that purpofe. 

The whole of this furnace rtnould be 
ereiled within the houfe, which wiil 
he a great addition to the heat ; and the 
front wall on the outfide of the fire- 
place, next the fhed, fliould be three 
bricks thick, the better to prevent the 
Jieat from coming out that way. The 
door of the furnace, at which the fuel 
is put in, mull be as fmall as conveni- 
ently rnay be to admit of the fuel; and 
this door fhould be placed near the up- 
per part of the furnace, and made to 
ihut as clofe as polTible ; fo that there 
may but little of the heat pafs off 
through it. This furnace fhould be 
about twenty inches deep, and lixteen 
inches fquare at the bottom, but may 
be floped ofi'on every fide, fo as to be 
two feet fquare at the top; and under 
this furnace fhould be a place for the 
alhes to fall into, which Ihould be about 
a foot deep, and as wide as the bottom 
of the furnace: this fliould alfo have 
an iron door to fhut as clofe as polTi- 
ble; but jurt over the afn-hole, above 
the bars which fuf>port ilie fuel, fhould 
be a fquare h.ole about four inciies wide 
to let the air in to make the fire burn : 
this muil aifo have an iron frame, and 
adoor to fliut clofe when the fire is 
ptrfedU) lighted, which will make the 



fuel laft the longer, and the heat will, 
be more moderate. 

The top of this furnace (hould he 
nearly equal to the top of the bark-bed, 
that the lovvclt fiue may be aoove the 
file; fo that there may be a greater 
draught for thefmoke ; and the furnace 
Ihould be covered with a Urge iron 
plate, clofely cemented to the brick- 
work, to pi event the fmoke from get- 
ting out ; or it may be arched over 
with bricks ; but you Ihould be very 
careful, wherever the fire is placed, 
that it be not too near the bark-bed ; 
for the heat of the fire will, by its long 
continuance, dry the bark, fo that it 
will lofe its virtue, and be in danger of 
taking fire ; to prevent which, it will 
be the belt method to continue an hol- 
low between the brick- wcrk of the fir« 
and that of the pit. about eight inches 
wide; which will effe£lually prevent 
any damage arifing from the heat of 
the fire ; and there Ihould be no wood- 
work placed any where near the flues, 
or the fire-place, becauie the continual 
heat of the Hove may in time dry it fo 
much, as to caufe it to take fire ; which 
ought to be very carefully guarded 
againft. 

The entrance into this ftovc fhould 
be either from a green-houfe, the dry 
ftove, or elfe tlirough the Ihed where 
the fire is made, becaufe in cold wea- 
ther, the front-glafles murt not be 
opened. 

The other fort of flove, which is 
commonly called the dry Aove, as was 
before faid, may be either built with 
upright and Hoping glalTes at the top, 
in the fame manner, and after the fame 
model of the bark-ftove ; or elfe the 
front glafles, which Ihould run from 
the floor to the ceiling, may be laid 
Hoping, to an angle of forty-five de- 
grees, the better to admit the rays of 
the fun in fpring and autumn : the 
latter method has been chiefly followed 
by moft perfons who have built this 
fort of Itoves ; but it is a better method 
to have it built after the model 
of the bark flove, with upright glaf- 
fes in front, and lloping giafles over 
them, becaufe this will more eafily ad- 
mit the fun at all the different feafons ; 
for in fummer, when the fun is high, 
the top glafTes wiil admit the rays to 
Ihine almofl all over the houfe; and 
in winter, when the fan is low, the 
frcnC 



S T R 



S T R 



front glaiTes will admit its rays; 
whereas, when the glaiVcs are laid to 
any declivity in one dirctUon, the rays 
ot the fun will not tail diretlly thtreon 
above a fortnight in autumn, and about 
' the fame time in Cpring; and, during 
the other parts ol the year, they will 
fall obliquely thereon; and in fummer, 
\Nhcn the fun is h'gh, the rayj will not 
reach above five or fix feet from fhe 
glalTcs. 

Befides, the plant* placed towards 
the back part of tiie houl'e will not 
thrive in the fummer feafon for wane 
of air ; whereas, when there are Ho- 
ping; glalFfs at the top, wiiich run 
within four feet oi" the back of the 
houfe; thcie, by being drawn down in 
hot weather, will let in perpendicular 
air to all the plants; and, ot how 
much fcrvice this is to ail fort of plants, 
every one who has had opportunity of 
obferving the growth of plants in a 
Aove, will cafily judge ; for when 
plants are placed under cover of a cei- 
ling, they always turn themfelves to- 
wards the air and light, and thereby 
grow ciooked ; and if, in order to pre- 
ferve them itrait, they are turned every 
week, they will nevcriiielefs grow 
weak, and look pale and lickiiy, like a 
perfon Ihuiupin a dungeon ; for which 
reafiins, whoever hai made trial of both 
forts ot Itoves, will recon-.mend the 
model of the bark-itove for every pur- 
pofe. MilUr'i Gardener'"! DiiiiOrjry, 

STOVER. Fodder for cattle. 

S TOUKD. A wooden velTcl to put 
fmall beer in, 
y STOWK. The handle of a pail ; 
/'/jfiKo a (hock of twelv e fl^sives. 

y_ STOWRE.- A round of a ladder; 
"* 'a hedge- flake; alfo the ftaves in the 
fides of a vvaggon, in which the eve- 
rings are fadened. 

STRAIN, or Sprain. A violent 
extenfion of the fmews or tendons of 
fome mufcle, whereby the tendinous 
fibres are over-ltretched, and fome- 
times ruptured or broken. 

As foon as a Horfe is iirained, we 
advife to turn the horfe to grafs imme- 
diately, external applications will then 
not be wanted, and if this be not done, 
appiicaiions will be of little or no ufe. 
Perhaps as good an embrocation as can 
be ufed is fcur ounces of i^ood Vinegar 
and two cunces of Campliorated Spi- 
rit of Wine, with which the part may 
be bathed twice a day. 



STRANGLES. A diftemper WT 
which colts and young horfes aie very 
fuhjcd ; ic begins with a fwclling 
between the jaw-bones, which fon»e- 
tinies extend to tlie mufcles of the 
tongue; and is attended with fo great 
heat, pain, and inflammation, that 
fometimes till matter is formed, the 
horfe fwallows with tlie utmoll 
diliculty. 

Keep your horfe tolerably warm, 
give him dofes of nitre and fulpluir 
twice a day, with mefhes of bran 
and water barely warm. 

STRANGURY. A difeafe in Cattle 
to be cured by giving decoflions of 
Maiftimallow roots, in whicli a little 
Nitre and Gum Arabic is dilToivedj 
keeping the body open with clyfters. 

SIRAW the (lalk of Corn. 

STRAWBERRY [Fragaria.] The 
diftinc^ fptcies are, i. the Wood- 
Strawberry ; 2. the Virginian or fcailet 
Strawberry 3. the Hautboy; 4.. the 
Chili Strawberry ; with ftveral other 
varieties. 

An ingenious writer In the Muffum 
Rullicum has obliged the world wiih 
the following method of cultivatir»g 
Arawbetries. 

" I liave them, fays fie, of feveral 
kinds; and the fruit, in the feafon, is 
in great perfeflion, being large, and 
pofTclfing a fine flavour. Thefc 1 pro- 
cure with no great trouble or difficulty 
in the cultivation. 

" I plant them in regular rows ot\ 
beds three feet wide. The foil I chufii 
for them is a ^-ood, natural, frelh, 
rich loam: the lefs it lequlres of 
manure tlie better, the fiuit being 
the fv.eeter and finer. 

" On each of thefe beds above- 
mentioned, I plant three rows of 
plants, in quincunx order, at fifteen 
inches dillance every way; and I rather 
chui'e to plant them each on a little 
hillock, as it were, fomething in imi- 
tation of hops. 

" Between the beds are intervals of 
thr fame width. 

•' My next care Is, by frequent hoe- 
ing, to keep my plants as clear from 
weeds as poflible, by wi.ich they ar» 
furs to be fupplied with plenty of 
nourilhment; a matter of great con- 
fequence, pariiculaily when tl.e fruit 
is fet, as then they requiie moft, and 
the weeds are alfo at that feafon molt 
luxuriant: 



S T R 



S T R 



fuxuriant: I therefore then Air tlie 
earth with the hoe often, which anfwers 
a» I have faid before, a double purpofe. 

" I obferve to keep my plants as 
clear as pofiible fiom runners; by 
which means my fruit is larger, and 
fooaer ripe than it would otherwife 
be. 

** When my ftrawberry plants have 
borne fruit two fuccefTive years on the 
beds, I get the alleys, or intervals, o'ug 
\jp and prepared, into which I trans- 
plant tliem in the fame manner they 
were planted in the firlt-mentioncd 
beds, which then become in their turn 
the intervals. 

" Here they remain two years more, 
when I again remove them into frefh 
land prepared for the purpofe, in this 
manner never letting them bear fruit 
more than two years in one fpoi. 

" I cannot eafily defcribe to you the 
great benefit this method of manage- 
ment is of to the pl.ints, which are 
thereby greatly invigorated, and the 
fruit prodigiouily improved, both in 
point of fize and flavour, infomurh 
that they appear to be quite of a dif- 
ferent nature from thofe of my neigh- 
bours, who firA furnilhed me with 
the plants." 

Strawberry Elite. 5-:« Elite. 

Strawberry Spinach. 5f^Blite. 

Strawberry T«ee, [ yfrZti.'a s.] 
The fpecies are, i. Strawherry-tree 
with fmooth favved leaves, berries ha- 
ving many feeds, and an upright trunk. 
This fort grows naturally in Italy, 
Spain, and alfo in Ireland, and is now 
very common in the Englifli gardens. 
it produces the following varieties, 
viz. one with an oblong flower and oval 
fruit; another with a double fiower; 
and a third with red flowers. 

2. Strawberry tree with fmooth en- 
tire leaves, berries full of feeds, and an 
ereft woody ftem. This kind grows 
in theeaft, particularly about Magnefia, 
where it is fo plenty, as to be the 
principal fuel ufed by the inhabitants of 
the country. This grows to a mid'^'e- 
fized tree; the braiiches are irregiiljr, 
and are garniflied with large oval leaves, 
fomewhat like thofe of the Bay tree, 
but not quite folong; theieare fmocth 
and entire, having no ferratures on 
their edges; the flowers are (haped 
like thofe of the common Arbutus, 
but grow ihiniy on the branches. The 



fruit is oval, and of the fame colour 
and confidence with the common fort, 
but the feeds of this are flat, whereas 
thofe of the common fort are pointed 
and angular. 

3. Arbutus with trailing Aalics, 
oval leaves, fomewhat indented, flowers 
growing loofely, and many feeds. This 
fort grows naturally in Acadia, and 
other northern partsof America, upon 
fwampy land, which is frequently over- 
flowed with water ; this is a low, 
bufhey fhrub, with (lender trailing 
branches, which are garnifhed with 
oval leaves, a littic fawed on their 
edges; the flowers come out from 
the wings of the leaves, growing in 
thin loolc bunches. The fruit of this 
fort is never produced in England, and 
it is witi) great dliUculcy the plants 
are kept alive here. 

4. Arbutus with trailing ftalks and 
rough fawed leaves. This grows na- 
turally on the Alps and the Helvetian 
mountains. It never rifes high, but 
fends out from the root many flender 
branches, which trail upon the ground, 
garnifhed with oblong rough leaves, 
of a pale green colour; the flowers arc 
produced from the wings of the leaves, 
upon long flender foot-Aalks, and are 
fucceeded by berries abou tthe fize of 
the com.mon black Cherry, which are 
firft green, afterwards red, and when 
ripe are black. Thefe are of a pleafant 
taflt, fo are frequently eaten by the 
inhabitants of thofe countries where 
they grow naturally. This is a very 
difficult plant to keep alive in gardens, 
for it is an inhabitant of bogs, grow- 
ing among mofs. W'liere the ground 
is never dry. 

5. Arbutus with trailing ilalks and 
entire leaves. This grows naturally 
upon the mountains in Spain, and in 
mofl of the northern parts of Europe, 
The branches trail en the ground, 
which are clofely garnifhed with 
fmooth thick leaves of an oval form, 
placed alternately; the flowers are 
produced in fmall bunches towards the 
extremity of the branches, which are 
fhaped like thofe of tlie common fort, 
but fmaller; and are fucceeded by 
berries, of the fame fize with thofe of 
the former fort, which are red when 
lipe. 

The common Strawberry tree is 
well known, being at prefent in molt 

of 



S T R 

of the English gardens, and cne of 
llieir greateft ornaments in the months 
of Odoher and November, that bting 
the feaJbn when the trees are in flower, 
and the fruit of the former year is ripe, 
for tlie fruit is a whole year growing 
Co perfedion ; fo that the fruit which 
is produced from the flowers of one 
year do not ripen till tlie blclToms 
of the fuccceding year art fully blown; 
when there is plenty of fruit and 
flowers upon the trees they make a 
fine appearance, and at a feafon when 
mod other trees arc palt their beauty. 

Thofe trees which have large oval 
fruit make the greateft figure, thtir 
flowers being larger, and oblong. Tlie 
fort with double flowers is a curiofity ; 
but as the flowers have only two orders 
of leaves, fo tliey make no great 
appearance ; nor do the trees produce 
fruit in any plenty, therefore the other 
is preferable. The fort with red 
flowers makes a pretty variety, when 
intermixed with the other j for the 
outfides of them are of a fine red 
colour at their firft appearance, and 
afterwards they change to purple before 
they fall off. The fruit of this i'^ the 
fame with the common fort. All thefe 
varieties are preftrved by inarching or 
grafting them upon the common Ar- 
butus, for the feeds of either do not 
produce the fame kind; though from 
the feeds of the oval fruit, there are 
generally many more of the fame pro- 
duced than from the feeds of the 
common fort. 

The beft method to propagate the 
Arbutus is from feeds j therefore when 
the fruit is perfectly ripe, it fhould be 
gathered and mixed with dry fand, to 
preferve it till the time for fowing ; 
the fureft method of raifing the plants 
is to fow the feeds in pots, which 
Ihould be plunged into an old bed of 
'.-nner"s bark, which has loii iti heat, 
covering the bed with glaffes, &c. to 
keep out the froA ; this (hould be done 
in December ; if the feeds are gcod, 
and as the fpriag advances the pots 
are refredied with water, the plants 
will come up the beginning of April, 
v.-hen they fhculd be freq-iertly but 
fparingly witered, and conltantly kept 
clean tiom weeds. 

As the fummer advances, if the 
plants are (haded in the heat of the 
day, it will greatly promote their 






SUM 

growth; but in warm weather ihey 
murt be open ail night to receive the 
dew, fo fhould only be covered io the 
middle of the day : witli ihis manage- 
ment the plants will rife to the height 
of five or fix inches the firrt fummer. 

STRICKLE. The svhet-flone pla- 
ced upon the extremity of the ihait o 
a fey the. 

STRIKE. A bufliel, or four pecks 
of corn. 

STRINGH ALT. A difeafe in hor- 
fes, conliiling in a twitching and 
fnatching up of the hinder leg much ,-■ ^ 
higher than the other! •/«« tfp*ff'^-/i^^/-. 
_ STUBBLE. The ftalks ofcom feft 
in the field by the reaper, c^^ Off . 

STUM. The unfermented iuice of 
the grape, after it has been ftvera times 
racked off, and feparattd from its fe- 
diment. 

STUMP. The part of any folid 
body, particularly of trees, &c. re.-nam- 
ing after the reft are taken away 

STUMry. fullof Jlumpsj hard, 
ftifi^. 

STURK. A young bullock. 

STY. A cabbin or fmalJ building 
to keep ho^s in. K v'' /% ^^j . 

SUCCORY. SeeilNDivE. 

Gum Succory. Ste Gum Suc- 
c o K V , 

SACCHARUM, The fugar cane. 
This plant grows naturally in theWclt- 
Indies, Arabia, &c. where its juice is 
boiled, and msc'e into fugar. 

Sugar M a r l e . See M a p t e . 

SUCKER, A yo'jng twig, or (hoot 
from the root. 

SUFFOLK CRASS. The fdme^. ^ 
with meadow grafi, or poa. Jk^£/i^/fa Vec Ct^ 

SUILLAGE. A drain of filth. /7f,)/„rtf^zn. 

SULL. A plough. -f (■ 

SULL-PADDLE. A plough paddle 

SULHKURWORT. Hogs fennel' 

SULTAN FLOWER, 7 a fpel 

Sweet Sultan, \ cies of 

centau.-^y, which may be propagated 
by fowing the feeds, on a hot-bed in 
the fpring, and then managing them 
as other annuals, not very hardy 

SUMACH, \Rhu:.^ This tiee, or 
fhrub, is cultivated in fome places on 
account of the culinary ufes of its 
fruits, and for the purpofes of the dy- 
ers, &c. among us, it is met with only 
in the garciens of the cvrious. The 
feeds or berries are of a red colour, in 
ftiape round and flat. Both thefe and 

the 



SUN 



S U R 



the leaves are moderately aftrirgent, 
and have fometimes been exhibited in 
tliii intention, but are now become 
ftiangers to the (hops. 

There are feveral fpecics, no Jefs than 
1 5, reckoned by Miller, which are kept 
in the ^arrfens lor variety orornament ; 
l"ome of which, natives of Africa, arc 
too tender to bear the open air of the 
winters in England. They are all pro- 
pa<ated h) cuttings or layers. 

SUMMER. The fe.ifon in which 
the fun arrives at the northern folftice, 
and the days araat the greatcft length. 

SuMMtR, alfo implies the large 
piece of timber, or principal beam, of 
a floor. ■ 

T» SUMMER-L.AND, cr T? Sum- 
mer-Stir. To fallow land in the 
fu miner. fi^£. ,J?»/2!<»/«^'V^^^»<, 

SUNDEW. See Ros Solis. 

SUN- FLOWER. The name of a 
well-known flower, much cultivated 
in large gardens, ^ 

The fun-flo-.ver is an annual plant, 
and the fetds fhould be lown every 
fpring in a bed of good light earth. 
When the (hoots are about three inches 
they (liould he tranfplanted into nur- 
fery beds, and fet at eight inches dif- 
tance every way ; they fhould remain 
there till they are a foot high, and then 
bs carefully taken up with a ball of 
earth at their roots, and planted in 
large border?, or i.ntermixed with flow- 
ering fhrub«, .".nd other large plants; 
they muft be frequently watered till 
they have taken root, after which they 
require no otiier care. The flowers 
appear in July, and ftand a conlidcr- 
abletime: the l.irgelt of them (liould 
be preferved for feed. The birds ate 
Vi-ry fond of the feed of thefnn-flovv-er, 
and mull therefoiebe carefully guarded 
from them, and the head left on the 
plant tii! Oftober, at which time it 
(hould be cut otT, and hung up to dry 
in an aiiy place, and in a month more 
the feeds will be perfe(flly hardened. 

Div.K f S u ?< -F L o w f R , [Rudbs.k'ui.^ 
This is a native of North-America, 
but wlJl bear fometimes in the open 
air of cur Eng!i(l\ climate ; there are 
' feveral fptcies, which arepropagated by 
partini? the roots. 

SUN-SCOllCHED. A term ufed 
in fame p:*rts of England to txprefs a 
diflemptrature of fruit-trees, owin^ to 
the fun's afFefl:rg them too forcibly 
oil a fudden , i^s canfequencc of whicJi 



Is the lofs and withering of the fruif. 
Such trees only arc fuhjeft to this, as 
are planted in places (heltcred from 
the fpring fun, and open to that of the 
fummer ; and may be always cured by 
proper wateiings. 

SUNSPURGE. Euphorbium. 

SURD ATI NG. A term ufed by 
farriers to fignify the fole of a horfe's 
foot being worn, bruifed, or fpoiled by 
beating the hoof againfl the ground 
in travelling without fhoes, or going 
in hot fandy lands, or with a (hoe that 
hurts the fole, or the like. It alio 
fometimes happens by over riding a 
horfe while young, before his feet are 
fufiiciently hardened, or even by the 
hardnefs of the ground, and high lift- 
ing of his feet. The figns of this de- 
ftft are his halting on both fore legs, 
going rtiffly, and creeping as if foun- 
dtred. 

There is nothing better for furbated 
feet than tar melted into the foot, or 
vinegar boiled with foot to a proper 
confillence and poured into the foot 
boiling hot, with hurds over it, and 
fplints to keep it ir>. 

SURFEIT. A difeafe incident to 
horfes and other cattle. 

Surfeits arife from various caufes ; 
but are commonly the effefls of fome 
difeafcs not attended to, or that have 
been ill cured. 

A horfe is faid to be furfeited, wi-.en 
his coat (tares, and locks rufty and 
dirty, though proper means have not 
been wanting to keep him clean. The 
(kin is full of fcales and dander, that 
lays thick and mealy among the hair, 
and is con.lantly fupplied with a trefh 
fuccefTion of the fame, for want of 
due tranfpiration. Some horfes have 
hurdles of various fizes like peafe 
or tares : fome have dry fixed 
fcabs all over their liir.bs and bodies ; 
others a moifture atttnded with heat 
and inflammation ; the humours being 
fo (harp, and violently itching, that 
the horfes rub foinceflantly, as to make 
themfelves raw. Some have no erup- 
tions at all, but arr unwhoifome look, 
and are dull, nug.gi(h, and lazy : fome 
appear only lean and hide bound : 
others have living p'»ins and lanirncfs, 
refembling a rlieumatifm : fo th.it in 
the furfeits of horfes, we have almod 
all the different fpecies of the fcurvy, 
and other chronical dirtempers. 

The 



S U R 



S U R 



The following method is ufually at- 
tended with fuccefi in the dry fpecies. 
Firrt tike away about three or four 
pounds of blood ; and then give the 
following mild purge, which will 
work a» an alterative, and ihould he 
repeated once a week or ten days for 
fome time. 

Take Succotrine aloes fix drams, or 
one ounce; gum guaiacum haif 
an ounce ; diaphoretic antimony, 
and powder cf myrrh, of each 
two drams : make into a ball 
with fyrup of buckthorn. 
In the intermediate days, an ounce 
of the followine; powder fhculd be 
given morning and evening in his feeds. 
Take native cinnabar, or cinnabar 
of antimony, finely powdered, 
half a pound ; crude antimony, 
in fine powder, four ounces j 
ffum guaiacum, alfo in powder, 
four ounces: make into fixteen 
dofes for eijht days. 
This medicine mufl be repeated till 
the horfe coats well, and ail the fymp- 
toms of forfeit difappear. If the horfe 
, is of fmall value, two or three com- 
mon purges fhould be given, and haif 
>8n ounce of antimony, with the fame 
quantity of fulphur, twice a day, or 
the alterative balls with camphor and 
nitre. 

If the little fcabs on the (kin do not 
petl off, anoint them with the mer- 
curial ointment j during the time of 
uling which, it will be proper to keep 
the horfe dry, and to give him warm 
water. This ointment properly rub- 
bed into the blood, with the afllAance 
of purging phyfick, has frequently 
cured thefc kinds of furfeits, without 
any other alTillance, 

The wet furfeit, which is no more 
than a moift running fcurvy, appears 
on different parts of the body of a horfe, 
attended fometimes with great heat 
and inflammation ; the neck often- 
times fwells fo in one night's time, 
that great quantities of a hot briny hu- 
mour iffue forth, which, if not al- 
layed, will be apt to colledl on the 
poll or withers, and produce the poll- 
evil or fiflula. This difeafe alfo fre- 
quently attacks the limbs, where it 
proves obftinate, and hard to cure: 
and in fome horfes fhtws itfelf fpring 
and fall. 

In this cafe bleed plentifully, avoid 
V«i.. II. 



externally all repellers, and give a>ol- 
ing phyfic twice a week ; as, four 
ounces of lenitive eleftuary, with tiK 
fame quantity of cream ol tartar ; or 
the latter, with four ounces of Glau- 
ber falts, quickened, if thought pro- 
per, with two or three drams of pow- 
der of jalap, dilfolved in water-gruci, 
and given in a morning farting. 

After three or four of thefe purges, 
two ounces of nitre made into a ball 
with honey may be given every morn- 
ing for a fortnight J and if attended 
with fucctfs, repeated for a fortnight 
longer. 

The powders above-mentioned may 
alfo be given with the horfe's corn ; or 
a ftrorg deco£^ion of guaicum (ha- 
vings, or logwood, may be given alone 
to the quantity of two quarts a day. 
Thefe, and indeed all alterative medi- 
cines, muft be continued for a long 
time, where the diforder proves ob- 
ftinate. 

The diet fhould be cool and opening, 
as fcalded bran or barley; and if the 
horfe is hide-bound, an ounce of fenu- 
greek feeds fhould be given in his 
feeds for a month or longer; and a* 
this diforder often proceeds from 
worms, give the mercurial phyfic too, 
and afterwards the cinnabar powders, 
as above direcf^ed ; but as in general it 
is not an original difeafe, but a fymp- 
tom only of many, in the cure, regard 
muft be had to the (irft caufe : thus, as 
it is an attendant on furfeits, fevers, 
worms, Sec. the removal of this com- 
plaint muft be varioudy efFefted. 

In a mangy horfe the (kin is gene- 
rally tawny, thick, and full of wrin- 
kles, efpecially about the mane, 
the loins and tail, and the little hair 
that remains in thofe parts l^ands al- 
moft always (^rait out or briftly : the 
ears are commonly naked and without 
hair, the eye and eye-brows the fame ; 
and when it afiefts the limbs, it gives 
them the fame afpedl ; yet the (kin is 
nor raw, nor peels off, as in the hot 
inflamed furfeit. 

Where this diftemper is caught by 
infeftion, if taken in time it is very 
eafily cured ; and we would recom- 
mmd a fulphur ointment as rr:oft ef- 
fef^ual for that purpofe, rubbed in 
every day. To purify and cleanfe the 
blood, give antimony and fulphur for 
fome weeks after. There are a great 
U u vari«ty 



S U R 

variety of external remedies for this 
purpofe, fuel) as train oil and gun- 
powder, toliacco Hecped in chamber- 
Jye, &c. Solleyfell recommends the 
following ! 

Take burnt allum and borax in fine 
powder, cf each two ounces ; 
white vitriol and verdigreafe pow- 
dered, of each four ounces ; put 
them into a cle.m pot, witti two 
pounds of honey, Itirring till 
they are incorporated ; when cold, 
add two ounces of flrong aqua- 
fortis. 
But when this diforder is contrafled 
by low feeding, and poverty of blood, 
the diet mult be mended, and the 
horfe properly indulged with hay and 
corn. The (ollowing ointments are 
efFc£liially ufed for this diforder, rub- 
bed into the parts aflfefted every day: 
Take powdered brimdone, train 
oil, and tar, of each equal quan- 
tities; to which may be added 
ginger, or white hellebore. Or, 
Take fulphur vivum, half a pound, 
crude fal ammoniac one ounce j 
hogs lard, or oil, a fufficient quan- 
tity to form into an ointment. 
Or this : 

Take quickfilver, and oil of vitriol, 
of each one ounce ; hogs lard, 
one pound, fulphur vivum four 
ounces, oil of turpentine one 
ounce and half. 
Thefe are both very powerful re- 
medies for this diforder, and can fcarce 
fail of fuccefs. 

To the two firft, occafionally, may 
be added a third part of mercurial oint- 
ment ; but as fulphur is in general al- 
lowed to be the fpecific in the itch, 
and being found both more fafe and 
efficacious than mercury ; fo we ap- 
prehend it will fufficiently anfwer the 
purpofe here ; for as this diforder 
feems beft accounted for by Leiiwen- 
hoek, from certain fmall infedts he dif- 
covered in the puflulcs by the micro- 
fcope ; fo it feems .as if they were de- 
llroyed by the fteanis of brimflone, 
though only raifed by the heat of the 
body ; for in the human body, the 
itch may be cured by partial fulphu- 
reous unflions on the le^sonlyj but 
where the mange proves obflinate in 
horfes, let the parts be wailied with 
fublimate vv^ater before the application 
«f the ointment^ ar.d fubjoin the in- 



S W A 

ternal ufc of fulphur, in order to dif- 
fufe the fteams more certainly through 
the fkin ; there being reafon to btlieve, 
as in the itcli, that the animalculae 
may fometimei lie too deep to he tho- 
roughly deftroyed by external applica- 
tions only. 

SUGAR. The elTential fait of the 
arundo Jacchartfera, a beautiful large 
cane growing fpontaneoufly in the 
Eaft-lndies, and fome of the warmer 
parts of the Welt, and cultivated in 
great quantity in out American plan- 
tations. The exprefTed juice of the 
Cane is clarified with the addition of 
lime water (without wliich it does 
not aflTume the form of a true fugar) 
and boiled down to a due confiftcnce j 
when, being removed from the fire, the 
faccharine part concretes from tlie 
groifer unctuous matter, called treacle, 
or melalTes. This, as yet impure or 
brown fugar, is farther purified, in 
conical moulds, by fpreading moifl 
clay on the upper broad furface: the 
watery moifture, (lowly percolating 
through the mafs, carries with it a con- 
fidei^ble part of the remains of the 
treacly matter. This clayed fugar, 
imported from America, is by our re- 
finers diflblved in water, the folution 
clarified by boiling with whites of eggs 
and defpumation, and after due eva- 
poration poured into moulds: as foon 
as the fugar has concreted, and the 
fluid part drained off, the furface is 
cove:ed with moift clay as before. The 
fugar, thus once refined, by a repetition 
of the procefs, becomes the double- 
refined fugar of the fhops. The candy, 
or cryltals, are prepared by boiling 
down folutions of fugar to a certain 
pitch, and then removing them into a 
hot room, with flicks fet acrofs the 
veirel for the fugar to fhoot upon : 
thefe cryflals prove of a white or brown 
colour, according as the fugar was 
pure or impure. 

The ufes of fugar as a fweet, are 
fufficiently well known. The impure 
forts contain an undoous, or oily mat- 
ter, in confequence of which they prove 
emollient and laxative. The ciyftals 
are mort diflicultof folution, and hence 
are propertft w.'iere this foft lubrica- 
ting fweet is wanted to diJfolve flowly 
in the mouth. 

SURVEYING. The art or aft of 
meafuring of lands j that \%, of taking 

the 



S Y C 



S Y T 



the dimenfions of any field, parcel, or 
traft of land, layinj down tlie fjme 
in a map or draui;hT, and finding the 
area or con:cnt thereof. 

SWALLOW WORT, [mncetoxicum'} 
Tame poifon. 

SWAMP. A hollow, watery place, 
in any part of a field ; a bog. See Boc. 

SWANG. A frefli piece of jreen 
fward lying in a bottom among ara- 
ble or barren land. 

SWARD. The furface of the 
ground. 

SWARM. A large number of bees, 
feeking a proper fettlement. See Bee. 

SWATH, or S-wanh. A line of 
grafs. Sec. cut down by the mower. 

SWATM.DUCK., A fwarth, or 
line of new-mown grafs or corn. 

SWATH-RAKE. A rake about 
two yards long, with iron teeth, and 
a bearer in the middle, to which a 
man fixes himfelf with a belt ; and 
when he has gathered as much as 
his rake will hold, he raifts it and be- 
gins again. This inftrument is in 
fome counties called a dow-rake, and 
much ufed in Elfex for gathering bar- 
ley after mowing. 
_ Sweet Apple. 5«Cuftard Apple. 

t^J^ Sweet Pe.^. 5« Everlafting Pea. 

Sweet John, ? See Cakh a- 

Sweet William, J tion. 

Sweet Willow. Candleberry- 
tree. 

SWEAL. To finge, or burn of? 
the hair, &c. 

SWILL. AvefreUowafhin,fland- 
ing on three feet, tr/^a^ Ol/f»/i' 

SWINE. See Hoc. 

SWINE-CRUE. A hog's-fty. 

SWINE-HERD. Akeeperoffwine. 

SWINHULL. Ahog's-fty. 

Swine's Cress. Scurvy-grafs. 



SYCAMORE, or Wild Fig-rree, 
falfely fo called, is our acer majus, 
or broad-leaved Mas, one of the ma- 
ples, and is much more in reputation 
for its fhade than it dcferves ; for the 
honey-dew leaves, which fall early, 
like thofe of the alh, turn to mucilage 
and noxious infedls, and putrefy with 
the firlt moillure of the feafon, fo as 
they contaminate and marr our walks ; 
and are therefoie, by my confent, to 
be bani(hed from all curious gardens 
and avenues. It is raifed of the keys 
in the hufk, as foon as ripe, and they 
come up the firft fpring ; alio by roots 
and layers, in ground moill, not over 
wet or nifF, and mufl be governed as 
other nurftry plants. There is in Ger- 
many a better fort of fycamore than 
ours (nor are ours indigenous) where- 
with they make faddlc- trees, and di- 
vers other things of ufe. Our own is 
excellent for trenchers, cart and plow- 
timber, being light, tough, and not 
much inferior to afh itfelf ; and if the 
trees be very tall and handfome, they 
arethe more tolerable for diftant walks, 
efpecially where other better trees pros- 
per not fo well, or where a fudden 
fhade is expeded : Some commend 
them to thicken copfes, efpecially in 
parks, as leaft apt to the fpoil of deer, 
and that it is good fire-wood. This 
tree being wounded, bleeds a great part 
of the year ; the liquor emulating that 
of the birch. The fap is fweet and 
wholefome, and in a fhort time yields 
fufficient quantity to brew with, fo as 
with one bu(hel of malt is made as 
good ale as fourbufhels with ordinary 
water, upon Dr. Tongue's experience, 
Phil. Tranf. vol. iv. fol. 917. — Evelyn, 

SYRINGA. Lilac. 

SYTHE. See Scythe, 



V u a 



TAEERN. 



T. 



T A L 

TABERN. A cellar. 
TAGCE. A fheep of the 
fir/t year. 

TAIL-SOAKED. A difeafe inci- 
dent to cows, by which the joint of 
the tail near the rump, will, as it 
vere, rot away. The cure is generally 
performed by cutting a deep gafh into 
the part aft'cdled, then rubbing a hand- 
ful of fait into the wound, and bind- 
ing it with a rag. Others mix foot 
and a clovt of gai lick with the fait. 

TACAMAHACCA - TREE. A 
fpecies of the poplar. 

Tacamahacca. A refin obtained 
from a tall tree, which grows fpcnta- 
reoufly en the continent of America, 
and in a fheltered fituation bears the 
winters of our own climate. Two 
foits of this refin are fometimes to be 
jnet with. The bed, calltd (from its 
being collefled in a kind of gourd- 
fliells) tacamahacca in fhells, is fome- 
what unftuous and foftiHi, of a pa'.e 
yellowilh or greenifh colour, an aro- 
matic tafte, and a fragrant delightful 
fmeil, approaching to that of lavender 
and ambergris. This fort is very rare : 
that commonly found in the fhops is 
in femitranfparent grains or glebes, of 
a whitifli, yellowifh, brownifh, or 
greenifh colour, of a lefs grateful 
fmell than the foregoing. The firit is 
faid to exude from the fruit of the tree, 
the other from incifions made in the 
trunk. This refin is faid to be em- 
ployed among the Indians, externally, 
for difcufiing" and maturing tumours, 
and abating pains and aches of the 
limbs : it is an ingredient in the ano- 
dyne, hyfteric, cephalic, and floma- 
chic plafters of the Edinburgh pharma- 
copoeia. The fragrance of the finer 
fort fufficiently points out its being ap- 
plicable to other purpofes. 

TALCIC: Talcky earth is fcarcely 
alterable by a vehement fire. The 
maflcs of this earth are generally of a 



T A M 

fibrous or leafy texture; more or lef: 
pellucid, bright or glittering ; fmooth 
and und^uous to the touch ; too flex- 
ible and eiaflic to be eafily pulverized ; 
foft, fo as to be cut with a knife. In 
thefe refpefts feme of the gypfeous 
earths greatly refemble them, but the 
difference is readily difcovered by firej 
a weak heat reducing the gypfcocs to 
powder, while the llrongelt makes no 
other alteration in the talcky, than 
fomewhat diminifliing their flexibility, 
brightnefs, and unftuofity. 

TAMARIND. This tree grows 
naturally in both Indies, and alfo in 
Egypt J but it has been fuppofed by 
Tome eminent botanifts,that the tama- 
rind which grew in the Ealt-Indies 
was different from that of the Well, 
becaufe the jjods of the firft are almofi 
double the length of thofe of the latter. 
The pods which have been brought 
from the Eaft-Indies have generally 
been fo long as to contain five, fix, and 
fometimes feven feeds, whereas thofe 
of the Weft-Indies have very rarely 
more than four; but the plants raifed 
from the feeds of both forts are fo like 
as not to be diltinguiihed. 

This tree grows to a very large fize 
in tho e countries where it is a native, 
but in England it will not thrive out of 
a flove, efpecially in winter. The ftem 
is very large, covered with a brown 
bark, and divides into. many branches 
at the top, which fpread wide every 
way, and are clofcly garnifhed with 
winged leaves, compofed of fixteen or 
eighteen pair of lobes, without a An- 
gle one at the end. Ths lobes are 
about half an inch long, and a fixth 
part of an inch broad, of a bright 
green, a little hairy, and fit clofe to the 
midrib. The flowers come out from 
the fide of the branches, fi.e, fix, or 
mere together upon the fame foot- 
ftalk in loofe bunches ; thefe are com- 
pofed of five reddifli petals, one of 
which 



T A M 



T A M 



which Is reflexcd upward like the ftan- 
dard in lonie of the butterfly flowers, 
two others Hand on each (Ide like the 
win^s, and the other two are turned 
downwards ; thefe (in the countries 
where the plants grow naturally) are 
fu.-ceeded by tiiick compreired pcds, 
two, three, four or five inches Ion?, 
having a double fkin or cover, and 
fwcil in every place where the feeds are 
lodged, full of an acid Aringy pulp, 
which furrounds fniooth, compicHed, 
angular feeds. 

The tamarinds which are brought 
from the EaA-Indies are darker and 
drier, but contain more pulp, being 
preferved without fugar, and are fitter 
to be put into medicines than thofe 
from the Weft-Indies, which are red- 
der, have lefs pulp, and are preferved 
with fugar, fo are pleafanter to the 
palate. 

The pulp of thefe fruits, taken in the 
c]iiantity of two or three drams, or an 
ounce or more, proves gently laxative 
or purgative ; and at the fame time, by 
its acidity, quenches thirft, and allays 
immoderate heat. It increafes the ac- 
tion of the purgative fweets, caflia and 
tnanna, and weakens that of the reli- 
nous cathartics. Some have fuppofcd 
it capable of abating the virulence of 
aritimonial preparations; but experi- 
ence (hews that it has a contrary ef- 
fect, and that all vegetable acids aug- 
ment their power. Tamarinds are an 
ingredient in the elcftuary of cafia, the 
lenitive eleduary, and decodiion of ta- 
marinds with fena. 

The plants are preferved in the gar- 
dens of thofe who have conveniency to 
maintain rare exotic-trees and Ihrubs, 
They are eafily propagated by fowing 
their feeds on a hot-bed in the fpring ; 
and when the plants are come up, they 
fhould be planted each into a fep^rate 
fmall pot, filled with liglit rich earth, 
and plunged into a hot-bed of tanner's 
bark to bring them forward, obfcrving 
to water and Ihade t!iem until they have 
taken root; and as the earth in the 
pots appear dry, they mult be vi-atered 
from time to time, and fiiould have air 
given to t!»em in proportion to the 
warmth of the fcafon, and tiie bed in 
whicli they are plrtCtd. When the pots 
in which they are planted are filled with 
their roots, the plants Ihould be (hifted 
into pots of a larger fize, which mad 



he filled up with rich light earth, and 
again plunged into the hot-bed, giving 
them air as before, according to the 
warmth of the feafon. In very hot 
weather the ^lafTcs Ihouk! be Oiaded 
with mats in the heat of the day, 
otherwife the fun will be too violent 
for them through the glafles, nor will 
the plants thrive if they are expcfed to 
the open air, even in the warmeft fea- 
fon; fo that they muft be conltantly 
kept in the bark-ltove both fummer 
and winter, where if riehtly managed, 
they will grow very fa ft. 

TAMARISK, [Tamcrix.] There 
are two fpecies of this tree ; one with 
flowers having five ftamina; the other 
whofe flowers have ten ftamina. The 
firft grows naturally in the fouth of 
France, in Spain and Italy, where it 
arrives to a tree of middling fize ; but 
in England is feldom more than four- 
teen or fixteen feet high. The other 
grows naturally in Germany, in moili 
land : it is rather a fhrub than a tree, 
having feveral ligneous ftalks arilinj 
from the fame root, which growerefl:, 
fending out many fide-kranches which 
are alfo ereifl. 

Both thefe forts caft thc-'r leaves m 
autumn, and it is pretty late in the 
fpring before the young leaves pufh 
out, which renders them lefi valuable; 
they are now frequently planted in gar- 
dens for ornament, and when mixed 
with other fiirubs, make a pretty va- 
riety. 

The culture of both forts ofta- 
marifk is very eafy : every cutting 
will grow that is fet in winter, and 
will be a good plant by the autumn 
following. The cuttings fhould be of 
the laft fummer's ftioot ; and a moifl 
part of the garden is moft eligible for 
them to be planted in. In two years 
they will be good plants for the wjj- 
dcrnefs or fhrubbery, and may then be 
planted out in almoft any foil, tliough 
they beft like a light moift earth, efpe- 
cially the German fort ; for in coun- 
tries where it grows naturally, it is 
generally found in low watery grounds. 
The bark and leaves of this tree are 
moderately aftringent ; they are never 
met with in prcfcription, and ha\w 
long been entire ftrangers to theftiops. 
TAME-1'OISON', [ ytnatoxicum. ] 
Swallow-wort. This is a native of 
the waimsr climates: it is Sometimes 

met 



«g# 



TAN 



TAR 



■Kt With in our garden?, but rarely 
perfefts its feeds. It is reckoned by 
botanifts a fpecies of apocynum, or 
doglbane; from all the poiibnous forts 
of which it may he didineuifhed, hy 
yielding a limpid juice, wliilft that of 
the ochers is milky. The root has a 
ftrong fmell, efpecially when frefh, 
approaching to that of valerian, or 
z>ard i the tafle is at firfl fweecifh and 
aromatic, but foon becomes bitterifti, 
fubacrid, and naufeous. This root is 
efteemed fudorific, diuretic, and em- 
menagogiie, and is frequently employed 
by the French and German pliyficians 
as an alexipharmac, fometimes as a 
fuccedantum to contrayerva, whence 
it has received the nameof contra^erx'a 
Germanorum. Among us, it is very 
rarely madeufe of: it appears from its 
fcnfibie qualities, to be a medicine of 
much the fame kind witli valerian, 
which is indifputably preferable to it. 

TAN. The bark of oak, chopjjed 
and ground by a tanning mill into a 
coarfe powder, to be ufed in the tan- 
ning or drefnng of (kins. 

Tan is of great ufe in gardening : 
firft, by its fermentation, when laid 
in a body, which is always moderate 
and of long duration, which renders 
it of great fervice to hr-t-beds : and 
fccondly, after it is well rotted, it be- 
comes excellent manure for al! forts of 
cold fiifF land ; upon which one load 
cf tan is better than two of rotten dung, 
and will continue longer in the ground. 

The ufe of tan tor hot-beds has not 
been many years known in England ; 
the ftrit hot-beds of this fort, which 
were made in England, were at Black- 
heath, in Kent, about fifty-five ye^rs 
ago : thefe were defigned for raifing 
of orange-tees ; but, the ufe of thefe 
hot-beds being but little known at 
that time, they were made but by two 
or three perfons, who had learned the 
ufe of them in Holland and Flanders, 
where the gardeners feldom make any 
other hot-beds : but in England there 
were very few hot-beds made of Tan- 
ner's bark, before the ananas were in- 
troduced into this country, which was 
in 1719, fince v^'hich time the ufe of 
thefe hot-beds have been more general; 
and are now made in all thofe gardens 
where the ananas plants are cultivated, 
or where there are colleftions of tender 
exotic plants preftrvcd. 



TANSEV, \Tana:ttum^ The namt 
of a plant often cultivated in kitchen, 
gardens, and of wliich there are three 
va'ietics, that have all been produced 
accidentally from the feeds of the com- 
mon tanfey. All the varieties arc ca- 
fily propagated by the creeping roots, 
which, if allowed to remain undif- 
turbed, will overfpread the ground 
where they are permitted to grow ; fo 
that wherever tanfey is planted in a 
garden, the flips fhould be placed two 
feet afunder, and in particular beds, 
wiiere the paths round them may be 
often dug, to keep their roots within 
bounds. They may be iranfplanted 
either in fpring or autumn, and will 
thrive in almoft any foil or fituation. 

Confidertd as a medicine, it is a mo- 
derately warm bitter, accompanied 
with a flrong, not ve«y difagreeable 
flavour : fome have had a great opinion 
of it in hyderic diforders, particularly 
thofe proceeding from a deficiency, or 
fupprefTion of the uterine purgations. 
The leaves and feeds have been of 
confiderable efteem as anthelmintics: 
the feeds are lefs bitter, and more acrid 
and aromatic, than thofe of rue, to 
which they are reckoned fimilar : or of 
fantonicum, for which they have been 
frequently fubftituted. 

/^//liTANSEY, \PoUrMa^ Cinque- 
foil. 

TARES. \yma.'\ Vetches. The 
Tare is a low climbirg or drooping 
plant, relemWing the pea in its man- 
ner of growth, but fmaller. The ftalks 
are weak, and lean on the ground. The 
leaves are each compofed of feveral 
pairs of fmaller, of a pale green co- 
lour, and there are tendrils for climb- 
ing or hanging upon any thing. The 
flower refembles th.it of the pea in 
ftiape, but is fmaller, and of a mixed 
purple colour in the common kinds, 
tho' of various hues in others. The 
feeds are contained in flender pods, 
and are round and fmall. The colour 
varies like that of the flowers. „ 

There are two kinds of Tares, the "Jc^ 
white and the black. Thefe are named ^Ifia 



aTter the colour of the feeds, and have" 
little other difi^erence : they properly /» 
are only feminal varieties of the {zxn^**'^ 
fpecies; the white Tare rifing origi- 
nally from the feed of the black, as 
the common blue and red flowers of 
many kinds, in our garden?, will oc- 
cifionaliy 



TAR 



TAR 



c^rionally yield fuch as are white. In 
the fame manner the dtd variation in 
lliii kind of Tare io, that the flower is 
white, whereas it ia purple in the other 
and the feeds afterwards are of the 
fame colour. Ejjher of thefe may be 
fown in fields, and they will anfwer 
the fame purpofc; but the common 
or black Tare is the hardier kind, and 
the bed bearer. 

There may be a great advantage !n 
the fowing Tares properly, among the 
variety of articles with winch the 
prefent praftice of hulbandry gives 
the farmer an opportunity of varying 
his crop. They excellently prepare 
the land for com, and their produce is 
of a certain and not inconliderable 
price, being the proper food of pigeons, 
and iifeful to many other puipofes. 

Wherever there are pigeons there 
m\}(k be Tares ralfed or bought; and 
this is not their only u'.'e, lor the flraw 
v'hen v«4wi»(iried is an excellent food 
fot cattle. So that upon the whole, 
the Tare, though greatly infer:or to 
many other articles, is a very profit- 
able, and very ufeful crop at proper 
feafops; as a very poor land will fup- 
port i', and it demands l.ttle prepa- 
ration. 

It is a hardy produdl, approaching 
to the nature of a weed ; and it will 
therefore grow either on Idnd naturally 
poor or fuvh as is exhaulled : this is 
what makes the farmer find his prin- 
cipal advan. age in its culture: for it 
nor only thus ftands in the place of 
barrennefs, but prepares the grdund 
for better crof>s. 

The molt favourable land for Tares 
Is a gord f:indy loom. They will fuc- 
ceed excellently on mellow earth, if 
not too moifl for them, which is a 
very common inconvenience in that 
fort of ground, th^at is not rich in any 
refpeft ; and we fee great crops of 
them in the lime-llone countries, and 
that frequently where there is very 
little depth of foil. 

The worfl ground for the Tare Is a 
tough wet clayey foil. In Hertfcrd- 
fhire, where a great quantity is raifcd, 
they hnd them always fucceed httter 
on the hilly grounds than in the 
vale?. 

Though the field where they arc to 
ftand has been pretty well exiiaufted 
by the lalt crop of corn, no prepa- 



ration by manure, or repeated tillage, 
is wanted: all that is needful is to 
plough in thel^ubble; andlet thii lie 
to rot; and in fpring to open the 
ground for the feed : thefe kind of 
crcps are fo far from demandm_< ma- 
nure, that they ferve as manure to the 
land themfelves ; and of them all none 
more than this fpecies. 

In his choice of the feed, the Huf- 
bandman fhouid not be negligent : a 
little care cofts noihing, and it enfures 
a profitable crop. Let the feed Tares 
be bought or purchaftd by excliange 
from fome farmer, at ten or twelve 
miles diftance, and let the farmer who 
is to fow the.-n take care to purchafe 
fuch as have grown on a rliffrrent kind 
of foil from his own. 

Thus, if his field be n-.ellcw earth, 
let him chule the fed Tart; from a 
loamy or fandy foilj and on the con- 
trary, il Wii be fandy,let hiin cnufe the 
feeds from one that is not. 

Thefe Tares are in general heA for 
fowing that are of a middhng fize, — 
rou Ki, full, and plump ot a fmooth 
and bright lurfoce, and heavy. There 
is reafon the hufbaricmzn be careful 
in thii choice, becaofe few feeds arefo 
apt to fpoil ; and ail pains are thrown 
away upon land where there is adefeft 
in the feed. 

In fowing, five pecks are generalfj '' 
allowed to the acre, but a bufhel is ^ '. 
fully fufncient : three pecks~wni be 
very well. The beft time fo.-- fowing , . 
them is in the middle of February.'^: 
Very little trouble "leed be taken about 
tliem, lor the moft flight fiirring of the 
ground is fufficientj but there muft 
never be more fown in a day than can 
be well covered before evening; for if 
they lie "expofed to the dews of the 
night, they contrad^ a damp that decays 
a great part of them j and ;ae reft 
grow poorly. 

In general, a poorer is better than a 
more rich land tor Tares. In the for- 
mer they pod weil ; in the latter, they 
are to run into ll^lks and leaf with left 
bearing. There is alfo another mif- ' 
fortune attending the' fowing of Tares 
on rich ground, efpecially if it be a 
little moirt, which is, they are more 
apt to lie upon the ground, becaufe of 
the weight of the Itaik. and then 
th^y rot. There is an old cufiom a- 
mong the farmers of EfTcx^ and fome 
other 



TAR 



TAR 



©tfter counties, of fowlng tares and 
hoi fe- beans together, they thrive tol- 
erably well in tills way, but they do 
better finely. There is no difficulty 
attending the reaping of them, for 
they may be very well cut together, 
when ripe, as they will be about the 
fame time ; and the different fizes of 
the bean and tare make themeafily fe- 
parated in the barn by a riddle. 

There arc two feafons of cutting 
them, the one for the flravv,as it is cal- 
led ; that is, for the green plant for 
the food of cattle, the other for feed. 
The firrt may be continued at differ- 
ent times for feveral weeks, and it is 
a very wliolefome and profitable food; 
the other is only to he done at one 
time, that is, when the tares are ripe 
in the pods ; and for the knowing tlie 
exaft period for this, the tare is to be 
watched in the fame manner as thepca. 

The cutting them for fodder is often 
the mofi important fervice they can be 
put to; as to the letting them ftand 
for ripening, it is for feed, or for food 
for pigeons ; and they muft be left to 
dry in the field in little heaps, before 
they are carried home for getting out 
the feed. 

The farmer has feen how eafily 
tares are damaged by wet, the confe- 
quence of \\hich is, their growing 
mouldy, or murty : after this they ne- 
ver recover their right condition, look, 
or value: but, beftde this, there is 
another accident to which they are very 
liable, that is, the being infeded with 
worms, mites, and other little ver- 
min. Now in this cafe the pulpy part 
Is eaten, and they become light, dufly, 
imperfefl, and of Httle value. 

The prefer vation of tares from both 
thefe accidents depends principally 
on the diying of them; for, as it is 
damp that moulds them, the fame 
mak&s way for thofe little mifchievous 
vermin, which are always found in 
damp tares, but rarely in fuchas have 
been properly dried. 

If the air be very warm and dry, the 
fpreading and turning them on a floor 
for feme days will anfwer the pur- 
po[i f if ctherwife, they fhould be laid 
upon a kiln : but, in tl)>s cafe, the 
beat muft be very gentle, and well mo- 
derated, otherwife it may do more 
harm than the damp, deltroying the 
vegetative power in the feed, and in- 
juring it in its nourilhing o^uality. 



When the tares are thus properly 
ordered, they muft be kept in a dry 
place, and properly fecured from ver- 
min. The thorough drying is very ef- 
fential, for otherwife they will breed 
diforders in the pigeons that are fed 
with them ; and, when ufed as feed, 
not one in ten will giow. 

When they are to be kept any long 
time, the bell way is to put them up in 
large barrels ; then fctting them in a 
dry, cool place, they will be out of all 
danger whatfoevcr, and keep good for 
all purpofcs for many years. y/ 

TAR. A thick, black, unftuous " ^ 
fubflance ; obtained from old pines ^/^^ 
and fir-trees, by burning them with a 
clcfe fmothering hear. It differs from 
the native refinous juice of the trees in 
having received a difagreeable inipref- 
fion from the fire, and containing a 
portion of the faline and other juices 
united v^-ith the refinous and oily ; by 
the mediation of thtfe, a part of the 
terebintliinate oil proves diffoluble in 
aqueous liquors, which extracft little 
or nothing from the purer turpentines. 
Wa'er impregnated with the more fo- 
luble parts of tar proves, in confe- 
quence of this hot pungent oil, warm 
and ftimulating : it fenfihly raifes the 
pulfe, and quickens the circulation: by 
thefe qualities, in cold languid phleg. 
matic habits, it ftrengthens the folids, 
attenuates vifcid juices, opens obftruc- 
tions of the minuter veffels, and pro- 
motes perfpiration and the fluid fecre- 
tions in general; whilft in hot bilious 
temperaments, it difpofes to inflamma- 
tion, and aggravates the complaints 
which it has been employed to re- 
move. 

Tar Pills. Take any quantity 
of tar, and mix with it as much pow- 
dered elecampane root as vvill reducs 
it to a proper thicknefs forbeingform- 
ed into pills. 

The powder here mixed with the 
tar, though of no great virtue, is never- 
thelefs a very ufelul addition, not only 
for procuring it a due confiftence for 
taking, but likewife as it divides the 
refinous texture of the tar, and thus 
contributes to promote its fclution by 
the animal juices. In the Edinburgh 
infirmary, half a draclini of the mafs, 
made into middle-fized pills, is 
given every morning and evening, m 
difoidcrs of the breart, fcurvies, &t. 
Ta« 



TAR 



TAR 



f AH Water. Take of tar, two 
pounds; water, one gallon. Stir 
them ftrongly together with a 
wooden rod j and alter Handing 
to fettle for two days, pour off the 
water for ufe. 
Tar water has lately been recom- 
mended to the world as a certain and 
fafe medicine in almofl all dileafe:;; a 
flow yet effeflual alterative in cachex- 
ies, fcurvies, clilcrotic, liyrterical, hy- 
pochondriacal, and other chronical 
complaints ; and a fudden remedy in 
acute diftempers which demand im- 
mediate relief, as pkurilies, peripneu- 
monies, the fmallpox, and all kinds 
of ferers in general. The medicine, 
though certainly far inferior to the 
character that has been given of it, is 
doubtlefs in many cafes of confiderable 
utility : it fenfibly raifes the pulfe, and 
occafions fome confiderable evacua- 
tion, generally by peifpirationor urine, 
though fometimes by ftool or vomit: 
hence it is fuppofed to a£t by increa- 
fmg the vis vitse, and enabling nature 
to expel the morbific humours. 

We (hall here infert, from the firft 
public recommender of this liquor 
(Bifhop Berkeley) fome obfervations 
on the manner of ufmg it : — 

" Tar water, when right, is not pa- 
ler than French, nor deeper-coloured 
than Spanilh white-wine, and full as 
clear; if there be not a fpirit very fen- 
fibly perceived in drinking, you may 
conclude the tar water is not good. 
It may be drank either cold or warm: 
In cholics, I take it to be beft warm. 
As to the quantity, in common chro- 
nica! indifpofitions, a pint a day may 
fuffice, taken on ar. empty ftomach, 
3t two or four times, to wit, night and 
morning, and about two hours after 
dinner and breakfaft ; more may be 
taken by ftrong ftomachs. But thofe 
who labour under great and inveterate 
maladies, muli drink a greater quan- 
tity, at leaft a quart every twenty-four 
hours : all of this clafs mu(l have much 
patience and perfeverance in the ufe of 
this, as well as of all other medicines, 
which, though fure, muft yet in the 
nature of things be flow in the cure of 
inveterate chronical diforders. In a- 
cute cafes, fevers of all kinds, it mult 
be drank in bed, warm, and in great 
quantity (the fever ftill enabling the 
patient to drink) perhaps a pint every 
Voi.II, 



hour, which I have knov^m to work 
furprizing cures. But it woiks fo 
quick, and gives fuch fpirits, that the 
patients often think themfclvcs cured 
before the fever hath quite left them." 

TARRAGON. The name of a 
fpicy plant, often cultivated in kitchen 
gardens. 

it is propagated by feeds, flips, or 
cuttings. March or April is the pro- 
per time for fetting them, and tliey may 
be tranfplanted again in the fummer. 
The plants fhould itand at leart a foot 
afunder every way, and they fhould be 
kept clean from weeds. They will 
endure great cold ; and even extraor- 
dinary drought will not hurt them, if 
they are but a little watered, or if the 
earth about them is kept kofe and well 
flirred, A very few of their leave! 
mixed with afallad, particularly of let- 
tuces, give it a high aromatic flavour. 
The tendered and freflieft are the beft' 
for this purpofe. 

TARTAR, [Tartarum.] Tartar is 
a faline fubfiance, thrown off from 
wines, after ftrmentation, to the fides 
and bottom of the calk : it proves of a 
red or white colour, and more or lef» 
foul or drofly, according to the colour 
and quality of the wine; the white is 
generally looked upon as the pureft : 
of either fort, fuch as is clean, folid^ 
fomevvliat tranfparent, and has its out- 
fide covered over with fmall fhining 
chryftals, is preferable to fuch as ap- 
pears poious, drofly, opake, and lefs 
bright. This fubltance, though truly 
faline, is fcarce afted upon by cold wa- 
ter ; the pureft fort, or fuch as has been 
purified by art, requires twenty-four 
times its weight of boiling water to 
diflblve in : the folutions of both the 
tartars pafs the filter colourlefs, and 
flioot, in the cold, into fmall, white, 
femitranfparent chryftals. All fuch 
earths as are foluble in vinegar, and aU 
kaline falts, render tartar more eafily 
foluble in water; hence the refiners at 
Monipellier are faid to employ a cer- 
tain earth for promoting iti folutions 
with fome particular managements for 
making it ftioot into large chryftali. 
This addition may occafion a confide- 
rable alteration in the fait, infomuch 
that the finer forts of white tartar are 
perhaps preferable on many occafions 
to the common chryflals. The vir- 
tues of tartar are thofe of a mild, 

X X cooiinj. 



TEA 



T H r 



choline;, aperient, laxative medicine. 
Taken from half an ounce to an ounce, 
it proves a gentle, though an cfiedVual 
purgative 

TEA, [77«-i.] The leaves of a 
fhruh cultivated in China. 

The feveral forts of tea met with 
among us, are the leaves of the fame 
plant, colleded at different times, 
and cured in a fomewhat different 
irtanner : the fmall young leaves very 
carefully dried, are the finer green: 
the older afford the ordinary green and 
bohea. The two firft have a fenfible 
flavour of violets ; the other of rofes : 
the fo«mer is the natural odour of the 
plant; the latter, as Neumann ob- 
serves, is probably introduced by art. 
Some of the dealers in this commodity 
Vn Europe, are not ignorant that bohea 
tea is imitable by the leaves of certain 
common plants, artificially tindtured 
and impregnated with the rofe flavour. 
The tafte of both forts is lightly bitter- 
ifh, fubaftringent, and fomewhat aro- 
matic. The medical virtues attributed 
to thefe leaves are fufficiently nume- 
rous, though few of them have any jufl 
foundation: little more can be ex- 
pected from the common infufions, 
than that of a diluent, acceptable to the 
ftomach : the diuretic, diaphoretic, and 
other virtues which they have been ce- 
lebrated for, depend more on the quan- 
tity of warm diud, than any particular 
qualities which it gains from the tea. 
Nothing arifes in diftillation from 
either fort of tea v\ith reftified fpirit; 
water elevates the whole of their fla- 
vour. 

South-Sea Tea. CafTioberry. 
TEAZLE, [Diffacus.] The/uller's 
Teazle is the only kind cultivated for 
life. Teazle is not one of thofeuniverfai 
commodities for which there is every 
where a market. It may beraifed in 
any place, and it is of cumberfome 
carriage; therefore he muft be very 
imprudent, whofets about to cultivate 
it at a di fiance from the parts of the 
kingdom where it is ufed, becaufe no- 
thing need prevent thcfe from doing it 
•who are upon the fpot ; but to fuch 
as are, it proves on many occafions a 
very profitable growth. 

The teazle is propagated by fowing 
the feeds in jMarch, upon a dry foil. 
About one peck of the feed will fow an 
acre, for the plants fhould' have room 
to grow j othcrwife ihc heads will no 



he (o larije, nor in fo great quantfty. 
When the plants are come up, you mufl 
hoe them in the fame manner as is 
pradllfed for turneps, cutting down all 
the weeds, and fingling out the plants 
to about fix or tight inches diftance ; 
and as the plants advance, and the 
weeds grow again, you muft hoe them 
a fecond time, cutting out the plants 
to a wider diltance ; for they fhould be 
at lafl left a foot afunder ; and you 
fhould be particularly careful to clear 
them from weeds, efpecially the firft 
fummer ; for when the plants have 
fpread fo as to cover the furface of the 
ground, the weeds will not fo readily 
grow between them. The fecond year 
after fowing, the plants will fhoot up 
heads, which will be fit to cut about 
the beginning of Auguft ; at whicli 
time they fhould be cut and tied up in 
bunches, fettingthem in the fun, if the 
weather be fair ; but if not, they muft 
be fet in rooms to dry. The common 
produce is about i6o bundles or ftaves 
upon an acre, and they will fell for 
about one fhillinga flave. 

TEAM, A number of horfes or 
oxen drawing at once. 

To Team, To pour or lade out of 
one vefTel into another. 

To TED, To fpread abroad new- 
mown grafs, which is the firfl thing 
done in order to its being dried, and 
made into hay. ^ J/hs-£*> - 

TEDDER cr Tether. A rcp- 
with which a horfe is tied in the field, 
that he may not paflure too wide. 

To TEEM. To be pregnant ; to 
engender young. 

TENDRIL. The clafper of a vine, 
or other climbing plant. 

TENEMENT. Any thing held fay 
a tenant, as a houfe, &c. 

TENURE. The manner In which 
tenants hold their lands, Uc. of their 
lord. 

THATCH. Straw laid on the top 
cf a building, rick, &c. to keep out the 
weather. 

THEAVE. An eweof the firft year. 

THETCHES. 5f« Vetches. 

THICKET. A cldfe knot or tuf'. 
of tree^ ; a clofe wood. 

THILL-HORSE. The laft horfe in 
a team ; the horfe that goes between 
the thills or fhafts. 

THISTLE, {Carduui.'l A prickly 
weed, growirgamong corn, &c. 

The 



T H r 

The following obrcrvations on thir- 
ties is fcU^cd from the p^apers ot the 
bath Agriculture Society : — 

*' Sorre cbfervjl'icns on 7hiJiUt as hjurhut 
in agriculture, n-.ore particularly tbc Sera- 
tu!j Arvenfn cfLir.naui. By William 
Curtis, Autkar of the Flora Londinetifn . 

" Gentlemen, 

" While fomc of your correfpon dents 
»r« laudably engaged in enriching agri- 
culture, by dilcovering and promoting 
the cultivation of new plants, permit 
one whom you have been pkaftd to 
eleft an honorary member of your So- 
ciety, to lay before you a few obferva- 
tions on fome of the plants which are 
more particularly noxious to the far- 
mer. Should they be confidered as 
contributing to advance even in the 
Imallcll degree the defign of your inlii- 
tutjon, he may be again excited to 
trouble you on other fubjedls, as infor- 
mation may arife from a cultivation of 
mc(t of the Btitilh plants on a fmall 
fcale. 

" There are no plants over which 
the DECcnomical farmer ought to keep a 
irore watchful eye than the thiltle 
tribe. He is fenfible that they are not 
only ufelefs, as refilling the biteof moft 
animals, the hardy afs excepted, but 
that they occupy much ground j and 
being furnilhed with downy feeds, are 
c.ipable of being multiplied to almoft 
<iny dillance. Hence in many parts of 
the kingdom, the fanners whofe lands 
are contiguous unite in preventing the 
increafe, by cutting them down before 
they feed; but this operation, though 
deftruQive to fome fpccies, will only 
palliate the bad efi'efts of others. 

" To be acquainted with the quali- 
ties of each kind, we muftobferve tiiem 
with much attention, and view them 
in a botanical and philofuphical light : 
this alone will enable us to judge with 
certainty how far and by what means 
their dellrudlion may beeffedfed. 

" The EnglLlh thirties meriting no- 
tice, as more or lefs noxious, are, 

1. CarduusLancsolat'Js, or Spear'Chifilc 

2. Carcluus Nutans, — Mujk Thijlie 

3. Carduui Palullris, — Marfh Ih-.pls- 

4. Carduus Marianus, — M-.ik ThsftU 

5. Carduus Acanthoides, IVdted'I liiftle 

6. Carduus Criipus, — CuileiThift'.e 

7. Onoperdum Acaiithium CoitonThiJi:e 

8. Seratula ArveiUis, — Curjid Tbijilc 



T H r 

" The Spear Thijile Is a large flrong 
plant, about four feet liigh, the extre- 
mity of each leaf running out into a 
long point; its heads arc large, and it 
grows very commonly by the fides of 
roads, near dunghills, and not un£rc- 
quentiy In fields and paltures. 

" The Mujk 'IhiJUe grows to the 
height of two or three feet, the heads 
hang down, and the flowers fmcllfome- 
what like mufk ; it is often found oc- 
cupying whole fields, panicularlyon 
chalky or barri;n land. 

The Alurjh Thijlie is very tall and 
prickly; its heads are numerous, fmall, 
and of a red colour; it grows abun- 
dantly in wet meadows, aifo in woods. 

" The Milk Tkijl.'e has very large 
leaves, which are mofl commonly 
beautifully marbled with white. Near 
London it appears frequently on baoks 
by road fides; in which IJtuation we 
alfo meet with the CurUd ^w^ y/cked 
"JhifiUi. Thefe three feldom intrude 
into fields orpaflures. 

The Cotton Thsf.U is diAinguilhed.by 
its fize, (being perhaps the largefl of 
the Britilh herbaceous plants) and its 
white woolly leaves. It grows in the 
fame fituation as the three laft-men- 
tioned. 

" The Ciirftd Thi/ile is more general 
in its growth than any of the others, 
being found not only by the fides, of 
roads univerfrtlly, but alfo in arable 
land, and is not uncommon in mea- 
dows, even in fuel) as are yearly mown. 
It is remarkably prickly, grows abpul 
three feet high; its heads are fmpH, 
the flowers purple, and frequently 
white. The fcales of the heads are 
fmooth, and may in a particular man- 
ner be dillinguilhed from all the others 
before mentioned, by having a peren- 
nial root about the fize of a goofe-quilJ, 
which runs deep intqthe earth, and af- 
terv.'ard« 'steeps along horizontally. 

" Of thefe thirties, all except the Jaft 
are either annual or biennial; that is 
remain in the ground not more thari 
one or two years, unlefs renewed by 
f^ed. i he lart, having a pertni.ial 
root, continues in the earth, increafing 
and throwing up new /lioots every year. 

*' Hence it will appear ohvious, 
that if the firrt fever, fpecies of thirties 
are cut down before they peifcc'i their 
feed, tlie ground wH be entirely cleared 
ef them ; at)d tlut the lail-mentioi^ed 

X X a can 



T H I 



T H O 



CJn no othcrwifc be deflroyeH, tlian by 
rooting it out, a proccfs whici^ the fol- 
lowing cx^.crinients will forrowfully 
ronvince the rural ceconomifl tobeini- 
praflicable in large fitKls, and fcarce 
to be performed even in an inclofed 
garden. 

" Experiment t. To afcertain tht tffciit 
ofmcnvirtg theSeratula Aivevjii, 
** The Hon. Daines Barrington, who 
is ever anxious to promote ufcful en- 
quiries, dcfired me to try w heiher this 
kind of thiftle could not be delUoyed 
by mowing. A fmall patch of them, 
about two feet fquarc, was accordingly 
planted in a good garden, in the year 
1777. In thecourl'e of the fummer 
they were mown three feveral times, 
but without any other good etfeft than 
that of pi eventing their feeding; for 
inflead of being dertroyed, the ntxt 
fpring they came up extremely vigo- 
rous, not only on the bed where they 
were hrH planted, but all around it to 
the diftance of fix feel. 

" Experiment 2. To afcertain the annual 
increafe of the root of the Seratula Ar- 

" April I, 1778, 1 planted In a gar- 
den a pleee of the root of this thirtle, 
about the lize of agoofe-quill, ami two 
inches long, with a fmall head of leaves, 
cut off the main-root, jurt as it was 
fpringing out of the ground. By the 
2d of November 1778, this fmall root 
had thrown out fhoots, feveral of which 
had extended ihemfelves to the diftance 
of eight feet ; fome had even thrown 
up leaves fix feet from the original root. 
Moftofthefe fhoots which had tlius 
far extended themfelves were about fix 
irKhes under ground — others had pe- 
netrated to the depth of two feet and a 
half 5 the whole together, when dug up 
and wafhed from the earth, weighed 
four pounds. 

" In the fpring of 1779, contrary to 
myexpeftation, this thiftle again made 
its appearance on and about the fpot 
where the fmall piece was originally 
planted. There were between fifty 
andfixty young heads, which muft have 
fprungfrom thofe roots, which had pe- 
netrated deeper than the gardener was 
aware of, although he was particu- 
larly careful in extrafting them. 

" From thefe experiments it appears 



deduclblf, that no plants are more ea- 
fily deftroyed than the generality of 
thiftles, 01 with more difTiculty than 
this one; there being no foil, howcter 
poor, in which it will not vegetate, 
nor earth fo ftiff but it will penetrate ; 
in proportion, however, a!> the foil is 
rich, will be its increafe. 

" It were much to be wifhed, that 
an inveftigation of this evil had af- 
forded a remedy ; at prefent, none ap- 
pears. It is, therefore, to be feared, 
that fpudding, or cutting them down 
ciofe to the ground, once or twice in 
the fpring, is the only operation the 
farmer can perform to prevent their 
bad efFefts in deftroying his crops on 
arable land, and rendering his paftures 
unfeemly. 

" As nature in the prefervation of 
this plant feems to have exerted her 
greateft powers, it is poflihie that in 
fome future period, ufes may bedifco- 
vered to which it has not yet been 
applied. 

" To the afs It Is the higheft treat ; 
and I have been credibly informed, 
that in feme parts of Scotland, it is cut 
down as food for horfes. 

" It would be well, if a plant fo 
noxious in fome refpeds could be ren- 
dered beneficial in others. 

" I am, &c. Wm. Curtis." 

Blfftd Thistle. See Carduvs 
Benehictus. 

CarHne THisTLr. See Carlim 
Tkistle. 

D'lftaff Thistle. See Distaff 
Thistle. 

Fuller i Thistle. See Teasle. 

C/o^^Thistle. SeeGLOBE This- 
tle. 

Mf/on or Tlorrt Thistle. SccMe- 
LON Thistl e. 

Melanchdy Thistle. See Me- 
lancholy Thistle. 

THISTI.ING. The aftion of cat- 
ting or pulling up thiftles. 

TAo/n Apple. SccThorn Apple. 

5/jcA Thorn. The Sloe tree. 

Box Thorn. See Box Thorn. 

Chrijl's Thorn. See Chki^t's 

T H o B N . 

Ccckfpur Thuhv. Service. 

Egypijjn Thorn. Acacia. 

E'vergretn Thorn, See Ever* 
GREEN Thorn. 

Glafiinbury Thorn, See Glas» 
50NBURY Thorn, 

Coai't 



THY 



T I L 



CMf'iTnoRN. SeeTiiASACAWTii. 
i^jwTHOKN. Sec Hawthorn. 

Purjing T HO liV. SecBucKTHORK. 

U'^iue Thorn. See Hawthorn. 

THOROUGH WAX. Hare's ear. 

THREE-LEAVED CRASS. Tre- 
foil, CJovcr. 

THRASHING. The a£lion of get- 
ting the corn out of the Araw.^- ,. j 

Thrashing F.'^sr. The floor on 
" which the corn is thrafhed. 
9^ ^^THR AVE. A fliock of corn, con- 
'''^•'nfifling of twenty-four /heaves. 

THREAF. A handful, a bundle. 

THRIFT, [5.-fln«.] There are two 
or three kinds of this herb, natives of 
the Alps and falt-mar(hesof many prts 
of England ; fome years ago it was 
much cfteemed for borders, but at pre- 
fent it is not moch regarded. It may 
be propagated by parting the roots in 
autumn. 

THROATWORT, [T^rachtVwm.} 
This plant will grow on old walls, and 
is eafily propagated by throwing the 
leeds on old walls where there is the 
leaA earth to hold them, 

THYME, [TJiymus.'] A well-known 
aromatic plant propagated in kitchen 
gardens. 

Botanifts enumerate nine different 
fpecies of thyme, befides feveral varie- 
ties ; but they are all propagated either 
by feeds or parting the roots. 

The molt ufeful fort, cither for cu- 
linary purports, or for medicine, is the 
broad-leaved thyme, moft commonly 
cultivated in the kitchen-garden j for 
the narrow-leaved kind never grow fo 
large. Their culture is, however, ex- 
iStly the fame. 

The feeds of thyme, if it be raifed 
from thence, fhould be fown either in 
March or Oftober, but the former of 
thefe months is bell, in a well-dug bed 
of light earth: taking care, as they are 
very fmall, not to drop them too cJofe 
together, nor to bury them deep, for 
this laft would make them rot. Allien 
the plants are come up, they Ihould be 
carefully over-looked and cleared from 
weeds, and if the feafon be dry, their 
growth will be greatly promoted by 
watering them twice a week, for fome 
time. In June, if it be a fpring fow- 
ing, the plants Ihould be thinned to 
the dillance of fix inches afundei every 
way, that they m:»y liave roona to 
fpread : and thofs which are drawn out 



may be fet in ether beds, at the fome 
diftancc from each otiier. 7 hey muft 
be watered till they have taken root, 
arid will then require no farther care, 
except weeding ihem, till the winter, 
when they may be pulled up, and laid 
by in a dry place, for ufe. The au- 
tumnal fowing Ihould be thinned as 
before, early the next fprine, if it be let 
rtand till then 9 for there will belittle 
danger of its refilling the fevereft win- 
ter of this country, efpccially if tbe 
plants grow on a dry, poor, and flony 
land. In rich ground, indeed, where 
they grow luxuriantly, they are fooie- 
times deftroyed by fevere fioiJU. 
Thyme will even Sourlih upon a iione 
vvaiJ. 

If the plants are propagated by part- 
ing their roots, this fhould alfo bedottc 
in March or Oftober, The old plant* 
Ihould be taken up, their roo;s fhould 
be flipt into as many paits as can bCj 
and thefe flips fhould be fet fix or eight 
inches afunder every way, in beds of 
frelh light earth. If the feafon be dr^, 
they muft be watered there till ihey liayc 
taken rootj and with only one weed- 
ing of them afterwards, they will fooo 
be fit for ufe. 

To Lve the feeds of thyme, fome of 
the plants fhould be left unremoved till 
the next fpring. They will then 
flower in June, and their feeds will ri- 
pen in July. Thefe mull be pulled up 
and beaten out as foon as they are ripe, 
for the firit fhower of rain would 
otherwife waJh them all out of their 
hufks. 

Thyme is fo great an Impwerifher 
of the earth, that no crop will thriwe 
well where that flood the year be.'"oje, 
unlefs the ground be trenched deeper 
than the thyme rooted, acd at the fame 
time enriched with dung, or fome otl^er 
fuitable manure. 

Lar.cr. Tkvwe. A variety of d;e 
common thytne. 

AlotJur cf TuYtiZ, [Sirf.i!,^ . 

fpecies of thyme growing w.'id on 
heaths. 

TICHINC. Setting up turfs in fuch 
a manner as they may be dried by the 
fun, and fit for being burnt lor their 
alhes upon the land. 

TIKE. An inledl found in do^s, 
fheep, cows. &c. 

TILLABLE. Arable, fit for the 
plough, 

TILLAGE. 



T O B 



TOR 






^ 



TILLAGE. The aft or praftice of 
-tillintr, or«<;ultivating land. 

TH>LER. A V>rar>ch of corn. 

T" I'lLLr-R. Tofpreador fhootout. 

TILLS. T.^res or vetches. 

TILTH. The condition of ihe 
earth after ploughing, &c. 

TIMOTHY-GRASS. The rame 
of a grafs now cultivated in England, 
of which it is a n.itive, thougli the 
iitcds of it were carried from Virginia, 
by one Mr. Timothy Hanfon, to North 
Carolin, where it is now cultivated 
by the inhabitants; and from this cir- 
eumftance it received the naiiieit now 
bears. 

'It thrives moft Jn-Iow, damp, marfhy 
grounds ; for in fnch foil and fuuation 
it wilJ p.i-oduce a fine turf in three 
-vreeks from the time of fowing the 
feed. -It is very luxuriant, grows to a 
confiderabie height, ind Kas in fome 
fort the appear.ince of wheat or rye, 
having a broad blade or leaf. 

AH forts of cattle are very fond of 
this herb whilft in a gresn growing 
ftate; and it will not be improper to 
add, that they are nearly, if not quite, 
'as^fondof it, when dried and made 
into hay ; but wiien it is intended for 
this ufe, it fhould always be mown 
when it is in full fa"pj juft -before it 
flowers, for if it is left longer before it 
is car, being fo luxuriant and quick a 
grower, it becomes harfh, and is miicJi 
dryer and more chirkyfcWd, thari when 
jtls cot in its prime, ' ■ 
• *riNE, A tooth t)r^ fpiJce. And 
hen.ce the common phrafe cf giving 
'two or three tin'ngs, fi^nifies to draw 
the harrows twice or thrice over the 
fime fpot of gicutid. ' - ' 

TIT. A frn.-!li horfe. 

TOAD-FLAX. See Toad-Fl av. 

TOBACCO, [Ni-ccrhrj.] There are 
many ffccies of this plant, but they ars 
in general fuppofed too tender to g'ow 
from fet'ds in the fullgifound, to any 
degree of perfection inthiscountiy, fo 
require to be raifed itt a hot-bed, after 
tliS following manner : 

The feeds muft befown upon a mo- 
derate hot-bed in \!arch, and when the 
planrs are come up fit to remove, they 
fhou'.d be tranfp'.arted into anew hot- 
bed cf a moderate warmth, about four 
inchts afunder each way, obferving to 
water and (hade them until they have 
taken root ; after which you nwlt let 



them have air ir> proportion to the 
warmth of the feafon, othcrwife they 
will draw up very weak, and be thereby 
lefs capable of enduring the open air : 
you muft alfo obferve to water them 
frequently, but while they are very 
young it fhould not be given them ia 
too great quantities; though when 
they are pretty Hrrng, they will require 
to have it often, and in plenty. 

In this bed the plants (houid remain 
until the beginning of May, by which 
time (if they have fucceeded well) th^ 
vsill t"uch each otiiet, therefore they 
(hould be inured to bear the open air 
gradually ; after which they mult beta- 
ken up carefully, prefcrving a large hall 
of earth to each root, and planted into 
a rich light foil, in rows four feet afun- 
der, and the pl.ints three feet diltancc 
in the rows, obferving to water them 
untilthey have taken root j after which 
they will require no farther care, but 
only to keep them clear from weeds, 
untir the plants begin to fhew their 
flower-flems ; at which time you 
(hould cut off the tops of them, that 
their leaves may be better nourilhcd, 
whereby they will be rendered larger, 
and of a thicker fubdance. In Auguft 
they will be full grown, when they 
fhould be cut for ufe; for if they arc 
permitted to ftand longer, thefr under 
leaves will begin to decay. ^This is to 
be underrtood for fueh plants as are 
propagated for ufe, but thofe plants 
which are defigned for ornartient fhould 
be planted in the borders of the plea- 
fure-garden, snd permitted to grow 
their full height, where they will con- 
tinue flowering from July till thefroft 
puts a flop to them. 

TOLU. See Balsam or Tottr. 

TOOTH-PICK. See Spanish 
TcoTH-PrcK. 

TOOTHWORT, [DnrftfWa.] There 
are three fpecies, the five-leaved, the 
ftv/an- leaved, and the three-leaved. 
The'fecond fort is found growing na- 
turally in fome parts of England, the 
others are natives of the mountains of 
Italy and AulVria. They are cultivated 
by feeds, or by parting the roots in 
daobtr. 

TORMENTIL, [TcrmenrH'j.'} The 
fpecies are, i. Tormintil with an ercft 
ftaik. 2. Creeping Tormentil. 

The rirfl fort grows wild on dry 

pafturesand commons in moft partsof 

England, 



T R A 



T R K 



Erjhnd, fo is never cultivated In gar- 
dens; this is fo commonly kno\vn as 
to need no dtfcription. The roots of 
this plant have been frequently uf*^ 
fcr tanning of leather, in places where 
oak-bark is fcarce. This root is alfo 
much ufed in medicine, and is ac- 
counted tht beft artringent in tlic whole 
vegetable kins^dom. 

The fecond fort is found in fome 
particular places of England growing 
wild, hut paiticularly in Oxfcrdfhire. 
The ftalks of this fcrt fpread on the 
ground, and emit roots from their 
joints, vi'htrehy they propagate very 
fart : this is rarely preferveJ, unlefs in 
fome botanic gardens for the fake of 
vaiiety. It requires no care to propa- 
gate thefe plints, fince, if their roots 
are once planted in almolt any foil or 
fituation, the plants will fiourifti 
without any othf r care but to prevent 
their being over-run wit!) great weeds. 

TORE. Rovven, rowet, or winter 
grafs. 

► TOSETer TovET. H.lfabufhel. 
^ TOUCH ME NOT. Yellow bal- 
^ famine. See Balsamtne-. 

^ TOWER MUSTARD, [rurrith.2 
^. This plsnt is kept in botanic gardens 
- for variety, and is eafily propagated by 
^ fowing the feeds on eld walls in au- 
^ tumn. 
O L'^ti':" TRACES. Dogftone'!. 

TR.\MEL. An inftrument or de- 
^ vice, made fometimes of leather, but 
^ more ufually of ropes, iitte-i to a horfc's 
legs, to regulate his motion, and teach 
N him to amble. , ^£X. fi//i^^ ^ 
^^"' Tramel alfo fignifies an iron ini^ru- 

> ment hanging in the chimney, whereon 
"^ to hang pots or kctiles over the fire. 
;:^. TRANSPLANTING. The act of 

^jw removing trees or plants from the pla- 
V» ces where they are fowed, or raifed, and 
^^ planting them in others, 
's^^ TRAGACANTH, \i:raiacamha:\ 
t* There are four fpecies of this plant, 
^ natives of Italy, Spain, and the iflands 
1^ of the Archipelago. Thefe plants may 
J' be propagated by feeds, when they can 
I'C procured from the countries v/hcre 
the plants grow naturally, wiiich 
fhould be fown on a bed of (refh earth 
in April; and when the plants come 
up, they fhould he carefully kept clean 
from weeds. They may alfo be propa- 
gated by flips; t lie molt proper timi 
for which is April, 

v/ Cc 0<-/trLCn./t //T ^ 



K 



The fruiti tragacanth of the (hops is 
the produce of this fhrul'. 

TRAVELLER'S JOY. Climbers. 

TREE. Thefirltandlargeftofthe 
vegetable kind, confuting ot a linglc 
trunk, cut ot which fpring^forth bran- 
ches and le«ves, < c^ ty/fi/(//'i^ — 

Standard trees are fujh as naturatly 
rife to a great height and are not topt. 
Fcr the choice of trees of this kind, 
kind, to be tranfj;lanted out of a nur- 
fery, Quintlney recommends u^ to luch 
as are Itrait, fix feet high at le.ift, and 
five or fix inches thick at bottom, and 
three cr four at top; the hatk pretty 
fmooth and (hining, ass a token of their 
youth, and the good foil they grew in. 

Dwarf trees are fucli as arc kept low, 
and nevei fuffertd to have above li*l( 
a lootor (tern. 

Tree Gfsm.^nder. See Tree 
Germ.'^nder. 

TV.T.T »f LiTi. SeeARBORViTi 




Foot Trefoil. 

/Iftffy^' Trxfoii., Buckbean. 

MscnTR£foiL. Lucern. 

Shrub TFEFoit, [Ptf.'ta.] Thia 
plant is a native of North America, and 
rifes with an upright flem to the height 
of twelve orfoir't en feet; there is 
anotlicr fpecies, a native of tiie Wef'c- 
India illands. They are bcth propa- 
gated by feeds ; the latter requires the 
affiltance of a Itove in winter. 

Snai/ Trefoil, See Bastarb 
Medica. 

Treacle MusT.'.RD. SaTrcacIe 
Mustard. 

TRELLISES. A contrivance for 
fuppoftlng the branches of fruit trees, 
confining of laths of wood crcflangeach 
other in the form of a lattice. 

Some perfons who are very curious 
in their fruit, and who do not mind 
a little extraordinary expence, eredt 
trcUifes againft their walls, extending 
from the infide of one pier to the 
neareft infide of the next; where the 
walls are built with piers, as they muft 
be for this pufpofe. This frame- 
work is conl\ruit(.d in the fame man- 
ner as that for efpalier-,, like which it 
need not be fet up till the trees are 
well fpread, and begin to bear fruit 
picntilully ; for they may be tjainc-d 
till then agalnit any ordinary low ef- 
palier 



r RU 



TUB 



L'et of alh-poles or other Hentfer ftic^?, 
in orHer not needlefsly to expofe tl)e 
treilifes to the injuries of the vve-ither ; 
becaufe theie, being generally made of 
rcgt)larly cut yellow-deal, or oak, ai>d 
ruD up higher, coft more. Every fourth 
upright rail or pofl of the trellis fliould 
b« much ftronger than the reft, and 
iail-ined to the wall with iron Iwoks, 
which it is beft to fix in the wall at the 
time of building it. Tliefe Arongefl 
wpright pofls (hould he about three, 
but by no means more than four feet 
from each other. The crofs raiU may 
be flight, as for common efpaliers, but 
they mtift be laid much clofer together. 
For peach, ncdarine, and apricot trees, 
for example, which, for the mofl part, 
produce their fruit on the young wood, 
the fquares of the trellis frame (hould 
no: exceed three or four inches; but 
for trees which continue to bear on the 
old wood, iliey may be five or Hx in- 
dies wide, and for vines, eight or nine 
inches. The (hoots of the trees are 
faAened to this frame with ofier twigs, 
rope yarn, or any other foft bandage, 
in the fame manner as they are to ef- 
paliers : for they mull not be nailed to 
tither, becaufe that would injure the 
wood-work. 

Thefe trelJifes, which ffiould projeft 
about two indies from the wall, are 
thought to contribute greatly to pre- 
ferve the beauty of the fruit, by pre- 
venting its lying too clofe to the wall, 
wliilft it has at the fame tlm£ all the 
advantages of the heat refleded there- 
from: nor are the walls where thefe 
are nfed hurt by driving nails into their 
joints, and drawing them out again 
every year, at the hazard of pulling 
eut fome of the mortar with them, and 
confequently of weakening the wall, 
and making holes in which fnails and 
ether vermin take (helter and breed. 

TRENCH. A furrow cut in the 
er.rth for draining land. 

TRENDLE. Any thing that turns 
round. 

To TREFALLOW. To plough 
land the third time before fowing. 

TROUGH. A long vefTel for hold- 
ing water, &c. 

TRUG or Trugg. A hod for 
mortar. 

TRUNDLE. A fort of carriage 
with low wheels, for earning heavv 
and cum.berlbine loads, ///nt,^/^/. 



TRUNK. The ftem or body of • 
tree; or the part between the ground 
and the place where it divides into 
brandies. 

TRUSS. A bundle of hay, ftravr, 
&c, A trufs of hay niuft contain 56 
pounds, or half a hundred weight j 
36 trufll's make a load. In June, July, 
and Augufl, a trufs of new hay mult 
weigh (vD pounds. 

Truss ofFloicers. Signifies niany 
flowers growing together on the head 
of a flalk, as in the covvflip, auricula, 
ice. &c. 

TRUKLOVE. One berry. 

TRUMPET FLOWER. Scarlet 
JafoMne, 

Trumpet Honey JuckJe. See Ho- 
neysuckle. 

TUBEROSE, [Ps/iaw-'.fj.] The va- 
rieties of this plant are the tuberofe 
with a double flower, the fti iped-leaved 
tuberofe, and the tuberofe with a fmaU 
ler flower ; the lafl is mentioned by fe- 
veral authors as a diftindl fpecies, but 
is certainly a variety. 

This fort is frequent m the fouth of 
France, from whence the roots have 
been often brought to England early in 
the fpring, before thofe roots have ar- 
rived from Italy which are annually 
imported ; the ftalfcs of this are 
weaker, and do not rife fo high, and 
the flowers are fmallev than thofe of 
the common tiibrrofe, but in other 
refpeds is the faroe. 

The tuberofe grows naturally la 
India, from whence itwas firft brouglic 
to Europe, where it now thrives in the 
warmer (Mrts, as well as in its native 
foil. The Genoefe are the people who 
cultivate this plant, to farnifh all the 
other countries where the roots can- 
not be propagated without great trou- 
ble and care, and from thence the roots 
are annually fent to England^ Holland, 
and Germany. In mofl parts of Italy, 
Sicily, and Spain, tlie roots thrive arid 
propagate without cave, where they are 
once planted. 

This plant has been long cultivated 
in the Engliih gardens, for the ex- 
ceeding beauty and fragrancy of its 
flowers ; the roots of this are annually 
brought from Genoa, by the perfons 
who import orange-trees ; for as thefe 
roots are too tender to thrive in the 
full ground in England, fo there are 
few perfons who care to take the trou- 
ble 



T U L 



T U L 



blfc of nurfing up their offsets till they 
become blowing roots, becaufe ic will 
be two or three years before iFiey arrive 
to a proper fize for producing flowers ; 
and as tKey mull be proteftcd from the 
ff oil in winter, the trouble nnd expence 
of covers is greater than the roots are 
worth, for they are generally fold pretty 
reafcHiable by thofc who impoft them 
from Italy, 

TUBULATED FLOWERS. A 
term ufed to cxprels tliofe fmalkr 
flowers, a Rreat number of which go to 
compofe one Isrge compound flower. 
Thefe are called tubulated in diHinc- 
tion from another kind of them, which 
are from their (hape called ligulated. 
The tubulated flcfcules generally com- 
pofe the dilk, and the ligiilated ones 
tlie radius of the compound flowers. 
The tubulated ones are formed into a 
hollow cylinder, which expands into a 
mouth at the top, and is divided into 
five equal fegments, which ftand ex- 
panded, and in fome meafure bent 
backwards. 

TULIP, [r«.'j><i.] Thedirtinafpe- 
cies are two, i. The tulip with a nod- 
ding flower, or Italian tulip. 2. The 
tulip with an ereifl flower. But the va- 
rieties are innumerable. The proper- 
ties of a good tulip as diftinguilhed by 
Miller, are, i. It fliould have call ftrong 
ftem. 2, The flower fhould confifVof 
fix leaves, three within, and three 
without ; the former ought to be lar- 
ger than the latter. 3. I'heir bottom 
fhould be proportioned to their top, 
and their upper part fhould be rounded 
oflT, and not terminate in a point. 4. 
Thcfe leaves, when opened, fhould 
neither turn inward, nor bend cut- 
ward, but rather ftand ereft, and the 
flower fliould be of a middling fize, 
neither over large, iicr too fniali. 5. 
The flripes fhould be fmall and regu- 
lar, arifmg from the bottom of the 
flower, for if there are any remains of 
the former felf-ccloured bottom, the 
flower is in danger of lofing iis ftripes 
again. The chives fhould not be yel- 
low, but of a brown colour. When a 
tlower lias all thefe proi^eities, it is 
elteemed a good one. 

Tulips are geneially divided into 
three clafl'es, according to tlieir feafons 
of flowering; as pra:coce<:, or early 
blowers, medias, or middling blowers, 
and fcfotines, or late blowers ; but 
Vol. II, 



there is ro occafion for making .iny 
more didinftions than t\\o, viz. early 
and late flowers. 

The early-blowing tulips are hot 
rear fo f^ir, nor fife hill fo I'.igh, as fiie 
late ones, but are chiefly valued lor ap- 
pearing (0 early in the fpring; fome of 
whjjh will flower the middle of March 
In mild feafons, if planted in a warm 
border near a wall, pale, liedge, or 
other fhelter, .ind a month after the 
others will fucceed them; fo that they 
keep flowering imtil the general fcafon 
for the late flowers to blow, which is 
toward the end of April. 

The roots of the early-blowing tu- 
lips fhould be planted the beginning of 
September in a warm border, near a 
wall, pale, or hedge, becaufe if they are 
put into an open fpot of ground, their 
buds are in danger of fufl^jring by 
morning (rolls inthefpring. The fbil 
for thefe fliould be renewed every year, 
where ptople intend to have them fair. 
The befl foil for this puiT^ofe is that 
vvhich is taken from a lii;lu loamy paf- 
turc, vvith the turf rotted amongfi it ; 
and to this fhculd be added a fourth 
part offen-fand. I'his mixture may 
be laid about eighteen inches deep, 
which will be fufticient, for thefe need 
not be planted more than four or five 
inclies deep at mcfl. The offsets fliould 
not be planted amongrt the blowing 
roots, but in a border by ihemfelves, 
where tliey may be planted pretty clofe 
together, efpecially if they are fniall j 
but thefe fhould be taken uj) when their 
leaves decny, in the fame ,-nanner as ihe 
blpwing roots, otherv.'ife they would 
rot; for thefe arc not fo hairly as the 
late blowers, nor do they increafe hd!f 
fo faft as tliofe, fo that a Greater case 
is required to prefsrve the offsets of 
them. 

When the tulips come up in tlie 
fpring, the earth i^pon the furface cf 
the borders fliould be gently (lined aiid 
cleared f.om weeds ; and as the buds 
appear, ifti-.efeafon fliould pi ove fe- 
vere, it will be of great fervjce to cover 
them with mats, (or want of whi;h 
many times they are blightid, and t'icir 
flower-buds decay btrlore tlity blow, 
which is often in'tiricus to the rocits, 
as is alfo the cropping of the flower>., 
fo foon as they are blown, becaufe the'ir 
roots, which are formed iievi- every 
yeai-, are hot at that time aiiivertto 
Yy 



T U L 



T U L 



thii-.r . full magnitude, and art hereby 
deprived of profjcr nourilhmcnt. 

If, when tlitfc flowers are blown, 
the fcaron (hould prove very warm, it 
will be proper toftiade them with rnats, 
&c. in the heat of the day; as aJfo if 
the niglita arc frolly, they fhould be in 
liksmannercovertdjwhereby they may 
be preferved a long time in beauty 5 
but, when their flowers are decayed, 
and their feed-Veffels begin to fvvell, 
they (hould he broken oiT juft at t^e 
top 01 the ftaiks, becaufc if they are 
pernitted to leed, it will injure the 
roots. 

, When the leaves of thefe flowers are 
decayed (which will be before the late 
blowers are out o) flower,) their roots 
(hould be taken up, and fpread upon 
mats in a Oiady placs to dry; atter 
which they Ihould be cle.-ired from their 
filth, and put up in a dry place, where 
vermin cannot come to them, until the 
feafon for planting them again, being 
very careful to pieferve every fort fe- 
parace, thdt you may know how to 
difpofeof them at the time for planting 
them again, bscaufeit is the better way 
to plant all the roots of each fort to- 
gether and not to intermix tliem, as is 
commonly pradlifcd in moft other 
kinds of flov^ers ; tor as there are few 
of them which blow at the fame time, 
fo, when the feveral roots of one fort 
are fcattered through a whole border, 
they make but an indifferent appear- 
ance; whereas, when twenty or thirty 
roots of the fame fort are placed toge- 
ther, they will all flower at the fame 
time, and have a better efFc£l. 

When the flowers are faded, the heads 
of ail the fine forts (hould be broken off 
to prevent their feeding; for if this be 
not obferved, they will not flower near 
fo well tlie followingyear, nor will their 
ftripes continue fo perfcifl ; this will 
alfo caufe tiieir ftems to decay fooner 
than otherwife they would do, fo that 
their roots may be taken up in June; 
fcr they fliould not remain in the 
ground, after their leaves are decayed. 
In taking the lotis out tf t'-,e ground, 
you niuft be very cs biajfe 

or cut them, whi:!i ■ 1 their 

rotting, and, ifpo;;. -., ...x.^uldbe 
- done a day or two after rain, Wi en 
'.I!-.:'- 'ro;s aic r-ktn cucof '.!;:• •'rourd, 



upen HTiats in a fhady p4ace to dry ; af. 
ter which they (hould be put up in a 
dry place, where vermin cannot get to 
ihcm, obferving to keep every fort fe- 
parated ; but they (hould not be kept 
too clcfc from the air, nor fuflfcrcd to lie 
in heaps together, left they (hould grow 
mouldy, (or if any ot the roots once take 
the mould, they commonly rot when 
they are planted again. 

The offsets of.ihcfg roots, which are 
not large enough to proidcce flowers the 
fucceeding year, (hould be alfo put by 
themfclves, keeping each fort dirtinft ; 
tljefelhquld be planted about a month 
earlier in autumn than the blowing 
roots, in particular beds by themfelves 
in the flower nurftry, where they may 
not be expofed to public view ; hot the 
earth of the beds (hould be prepared 
for thtrn in the fame maijner as fcr lar- 
ger roots ; thefe (hould not be planted 
abqve five inches deep, becaufe they 
are not ftrong enough topu/h through 
{o great cove.ing of the earth as the old 
roots ; they may alfo be placed much 
nearer together than thofe which are 
to flower, and in one year moft of them 
will become ftrong enough to flower, 
when they may be removed into the 
flovver-f.'-den, and placed in the beds 
amonglt thofe of the fame kinds. 

African Tulip. Bloodflower. 

Tulip Tree, [ruUfifira.'] The 
tulip-tree is a native of North- America; 
it is a tree of the firft magnitude, and 
ii generally known through all the En- 
glilh fettlem.ents by the title of poplar. 
Of late years there have been great 
numbers of thefe trees raifed from feeds 
in the English gardcc.s. (o that now they 
are become common in the nurferies 
about London ; and there arc many cf 
them in feveral parts of England v.-hich 
do annually produce ilowers. The firlt 
tree of t!iis kind which flowered here, 
was in the gardens of the late Earl of 
Peterborourb, at Par' •^- ^ ■■ - "^- 
Fulham, which was 
dernefs among ct! e: 
was planted in the •jptfi -o', •■ 
plants which were then in the ■. 
gardens, were .' 
led ii) winter. 
te-'- ■' •■ '"'- 
trc 



T U L 



T U R 



pots and tubs incrcafed (lowly in their 
growth ; fo tliat afterward there were 
many othirrs planted in the full ground, 
which art now arrived to a large fize, 
especially thofe witich aje planted in a 
inci'* foil. One of the handfomcit 
tne of this kind, rear London, is in 
the garden of Waltham Abbey; and at 
Wilun, the feat oi the Earl of Tcm- 
broke, there are fome trees of great 
bulk; but the old tree at Paifiins 
Green is quite dtftioyed by the other 
trees which were fufFeiei to over-hang 
it, and rob it of its nouriiTiment, from 
the fear of taking them down, left, by 
admitting the cold air, the tulip-tree 
might be injured. The young fhoots 
of thi- tree are covered with a fiiiooth 
purplilh bark ; they are garnifhtd with 
lart-.e leaves, whofefoot-fta ks are four 
inches long; they are ranged alternate; 
the leaves are of a fingular form, being 
divided into three iobes; the middle 
lobe is blunt and hollowed at the point, 
appearing as if it had been cut with 
fciffars. The two fide lobes are 
rounded, and end in blunt points. 
The leaves are from four to five in- 
ches broad near their haf;, and about 
four inches long fiom tlie foot-ftalk to 
the point, having a flrong rr.idrib, 
which is formed by the prolongation 
of the foot-ftalk. From the mid-rib 
run many trmfvcrfe veins to the bor- 
ders, which ramify into feveral fmaller. 
The upper furface of the leaves is 
fmooth, and of a lucid green, the un- 
der is of a pals green. The flowers aie 
produced at the end of the branches ; 
they are compofed of fix petals, three 
without andthreswithin; which form 
a fort of bell-fhaped flower, from 
whence the inhabitants of North- Ame- 
rica give it the title of tulip. Tliefe 
petals are marked with green, yellow, 
and red fpots, fo make a fine appear- 
ance when the trees are well charged 
vith flowers. The time of this tice's 
flowering is in July, and when the 
flowers drop, the germen fwells and 
forms a kind of cone, but thefe feldom 
ripen in England. 

Mr. Catefby, in his Natural Hiflory 
of Carolina, fays, " There are fome of 
thefe trees in America which are thirty 
feet In circumference ; the bough-; are 
unequal and irregular, making feveral 
bends or elbows, which render the trees 
dlHinguilhable at a great diftance, even 



when they have no leaves upon them. 
They are found in moit pitts of the 
northern continent of America, from 
the Cape of Florida to New-Ergland, 
where the timber is of great ufe, the 
trunk being frequently hollowed, and 
m.ide into boats big enough to carry a 
number of mm." 

This tree i* propagated by feeds, 
brougiit from North-America. 

Laurtl-ledied Tu i. ! p Tr r. e, [Ma^*^ 
nclitt,] There are four fpecics of this 
tiee, growing in North- America, fome 
growing to the height of t'A-enty feet, 
others toeichry feet. Tliey are culti- 
vated in England and are beautiful ever- 
greens. They are propagated by feed, 
which muft be procured from the place 
of their natural growth. _ ~ _ 

TUMBREL. Ac!ungcart, VCit J7/-^ii?lSL. 

TUFP. A ram. 

Tl'pping Time. Ranntiin:; time. 

TURBITH, [r«'-;.^//«w.] The cor- 
tical part of the root of an Indian 
convolvulus, brought to us in oblong 
pieces, of a brown or afh colour on thtf 
outfide, and whitilh within: the belt 
is ponderous, not wrinkled, cafy to 
break, and difcovers a large quantity of 
rtfinous matter to the eye : its tafle is 
at firfl fweetifh; chewed for a little 
time, it becomes acrid, pungent, and 
naufeous. This root is a cathartic, 
not of the fafeft or moft certain kind. 

TURF. A blackifh fulphurtous 
earth, ufed in feveral parts of England, 
Holland, and Flanders, as fuel. 

In Flanders, their turf is dry or pa- 
red from off the furface of the earth, 
and cut inform of bricks. The fedge, 
or fpecies of grafs growing very thick 
on the turf earth, confributes greatly, 
when dry, to the maintenance of the 
fire, 

TURKEY. The turkey is a very 
large and fine bird, and exceedingly 
well worth the regard of the piudent 
hufbandman. There arc advantages 
and difadvantages attending upon the 
raifmg of thi";, as other kinds of fowl ; 
but all being weighed together, the 
former far outweigh the latter, and the 
intereft of the farmer will lead him to 
think very ferioufly of receiving then» 
as a part of his flock. 

There isalfo this farther encourage- 
ment to his indullry,thata great many 
of the difadvantages attending the 
keeping pf this fowl, may be remedied 

Vy a or 



T U R 



T U R 



or prevented hy prudent management : 
and iliat there is no kind among all the 
poultry which will a^ord fo many op- 
portuinicj of improvement, Thtre 
aie fevtral breeds of the tuikey, much 
niorr different than thofe among the 
cock and hen kinds; and the properly 
clioofinj among tliefc, will greatly add 
tt» llie profit and cafe of kcfping them. 
AtjioBj; the advantages of die turkey 
may be reckoned his fize, the price he 
ittches at maiket when in good con- 
dition, and the quantity of his dung, 
which is as valuable as eny other kind 
wliatfoever. He i^ fit for fale alfo in 
the common condition at a good pi ice j 
and his feathers aie not to be ne- 
jgiefted, in counting up liiefe benefits. 
Amongihe di fad vantages of tuikeys 
— are to be reckoned their draggling dif 
pofition, their being liable t.o many ac- 
ciderts, tlie difficulty of railing them, 
and the frequentd(.ilru£lionof themby 
vermin; as a^'o the quantity of corn 
rhey devour. If fed altcgeiher with 
this, they will eat more than they can 
ever be worth ; but to this it may be 
anfwered, that the feeding them with 
coin is not necefTary, for they will in 
general provide very well for tli.em- 
lelves ; and in ti;e fame manner we 
rtiall jhew that every other objeftion 
made againit them may be removed : 
and that it will be greatly to the far- 
mer's advantage to raifefhem in moft 
places. 

This kind of bird always fucceeds 
bed for tl>e owner in open countries, 
becaufe thefe are not fo ir.uch infeited 
^vith vermin ; and they are fubjed to 
ramble and be dcftroyed more tiian any 
kind, as obferved already. This may 
he a very rcafonable caution for the 
bufbandman not to keep them in im- 
proper places; but we have counties 
enough in England that are not at all 
liable to that objcdion. 

The firft article to be confidered In 
refpecl of the breeding of turkeys is 
«. the age of ,the cock and her. Tie 
cock muft be y&ung, for tlie brood is 
never good unicfs he be In the vigoir 
cf his life; the hen may be older, for 
her care in fitting and leading tbcm is 
all that is required of her, and in tl'x 
latter article the cock often afTifts her, 
when he is of a kindly fort. 

The turkey cock for breeding fhould 
kz about two years oldj^and the Left 



time for the hen is at about four year: ; . 
fhe may be employed in breeding tilJI 
file is fix, but when fhc is too young, 
fhe is molt apt to neelc^l the brood j 
and when the cock is at all declined 
from his llrcngth, they are weakly, 

Tuikeys are not natural to our king- 
dom, and there is therefore always a 
V ildnefs about them. The female of 
this kind does not lay familiarly and 
conveniently about houfes as the corn- 
men hen, but rambles to a dii^ance, 
and makes her neft among thickets : 
for this reafon her brood is from the 
beginning more liable to accidents. 
7 he faimcr mull therefore be watchful 
about the time of her laying, and take 
care to get htr into the hen-houfe, and 
compel her tolay there; for this is the 
firft precaution, and it is a very elTen- 
tial one about the brood, 

Jt is a cuHom with fome, If there be 
convenience of thickets, or a little wood 
near the houfe, to let them take their 
own way, and lay and fit there; and 
in the hardier breeds, v^ith a little care 
of the young when new hatched, this 
will do very well ; but there is never 
any harm in the other method, what- 
ever be the breed ; and there is a much ■ 
greater certainty of fuccefs. 

The turkey naturally begins to lay in 
the month of March, and will fit in 
April. The eggs are very large, and arc 
excellent in the way of food, particu- 
larly they have a reiterative virtue. 

The proper number of eggs to let 
the hen fit upon is eleven, fome advife 
thirteen, but commonly there is kfs 
fuccefs in that avaritious method, for 
they cannot all be well covered. 

The turkey fits about feven or eight 
and twenty days. Some of the eggs 
will fometimes be hatched at five or fix 
and twenty, and fome will lie till thir- 
ty, but the middle time is the moti 
natural. 

The hatching of the hrood is the 
time when the great care is required in 
their management. The tuikey being 
naturally a I iid of a warmer climate, 
is chilly in this; and paiticularly the 
tender young. They muft be kept very 
carefully at firft, efpeciallyfuch as hap- 
pen to hatch before others of the f.^me 
brood; the beft way is to put them 
into a baiT<et with wool in it, and fee 
them before the fire, at fuch a diftance 
»s to be gently warmed. 

From 



T U R 



T U R 



From this time thr farmer is to de- 
pute fomcbody to a^ as a parent for 
them, for the htn is not to be expefled 
to do muLh; they will follow her, and 
(houid be permitted to do fo in the 
warm part of the day, and Ihe (hould 
be managed to take care of them. 
Tjie cock alfo will often watch over 
tliem, keep them togeiher, and defend 
thsm better than the hen ; but neither 
are to be trufted without careful look- 
ing after. The proper method of ma- 
naging them is this. Tiiey are to be 
kept in a warm and clofe place alto- 
gether, while they are very young; and 
when they have got fonie flr-ngth. 
they are to oe let out two hours after 
the fjn is i'i in the morning, and ta 
ken in again before hefets in the even- 
ing; and in the mean tiivierhey fhouh! 
only be let into fome walled place, or 
fome indcfure fo fecure that they can- 
not llray. -yi. 

At firft they are to be fed in the 
houfe, and afterwards in this open 
place; aii 1 at all times they mufl be 
allowed a futficicnt fupply of food, /or 
their parents take at beft but little care 
to help them to any. Th-.- very bed 
— food for them is g: een frefh ch2<.U, and 
while they are young, ibeir drink 
fhould be only new milk ; afterv^ards 
miik and water, making it weaker and 
weaker till they come to water alcne, 
wliich they will then drink wherever 
they can find ir. Curds are a very good 
food for them, but not fo well as checfe. 
A very wholfome food alfj is a kind of 
thick hail; pudding iiiade of oatme.il, 
water, and ajiittle new milk among it. 

As the tendernefs of the young i» 
one great article in the difadvantage of 
the turkey, indeed the greatelt, care 
mud be taken that the hen do net fet 
herfelf at too early a feafon. If the 
young av hitched in cold weatlicr, it 
is fcarcepcfTible to rear them without 
confiderable I'fs; but if they be pro- 
duced toward the Lttcr end of May, 
which indeed is the moflnarural time, 
as well aa the beft, they will have a 
much better chance. 

It is only while young that this bird 
IS fo exceedinj/iy tender ; for, when 
grown up, they are not only ftrong 
enough to defend them'elves; but they 
always love to keep in dut ks together. 

" Mofl of "tjur houfewives, fays a 
Swedilh author on hufbandry, have 



long defpaired of fjccefs in rearing 
turkeys, and c<<mpia>ned that the pro- 
fit raiety indemiiitiss tlicm for their 
irourue and lof>> c: ti^ne; whereas, 
contmues he, little moit i& to be done 
than to plunge thech ck into a vcfTel of 
coil' vvater, the very hour, or if thac 
cannot lie. the djv it is hatched, for- 
cing It to fwallow one whole ptpper- 
."rn, ind then reilorin,^ it to its mo- 
tile . Froqa .that time it will become 
h.4idy, and fear the cold no more than 
a lienscliick. Afisr which ir mufl be 
remembered Jhat thefeufcful creatures 
arc ful)je£^ to one particular malady 
whiitt ti.ey are youig, which carries 
them off in a lew day.. When they 
i<eg;n to droop, exaniine carcfuiiy the 
feathers on their rump, and you will 
find two or three, whcfe quill part is 
filkc; with Lilood. Upon drawing thefe 
the chick recovers, and after that re-, 
quires no other care than what is 
commonly t-cltowed on poultry that 
range the court-yard. 

." Thefe articiCi are rQ#true to be 
denied ; and in proof ot the fticcefs, 
thr-.e parift;es in Sweden have, for 
many year-,, gjlr.fj uvcial hundred 
pound> iiy rearir.g atid felling turkeys.^ 4^ 

TURNi?, [ Rapa .'] Miller reckons 4^C£. 
three 6'\l\\n€t (pecies of turnips, the /P/2 A^ 
round, the oblong, and the French ' 

turr.ip; the firll is the com it: en field 
lurrip, and 01 this there are feveral va- 
rieties, rut the large green totped is 
chief.y ^referred ab'ive all the relt. 

Perhaps there has never been a 
greater improvement in hufbandry than 
fowmg tjrrips, not only for the advan- 
tage of keeping a hrrer quantity of 
(took th^n c^uid othetwife be done, 
but alfo tt'.e great advantage which the 
grooiid will receive irom the turnips 
themfelves, tfpeciall', if they are eaten 
off iht jjnd by fheep. Turnips will 
grew on flione; land as well as on light — 
land, but light land will bef^ bear the 
foot of the (lietp, when feeding cfF. 

I urnips fhould be fown a^j: rding - -> /♦' / 
as they may be wanted, frofif^idftim- *^i'^^ '^' 
mer to a foitnight follnwin)^ and \v\\\^J^//^^-^, 
require a winter and fummr:r fallow of -^ / 
the land thoioutrhly to clean it ; duag ^t^^/^f/f/''* 
will be proper where it c<fn be afforded 

the turnips will grew the failer, and >- /* /^ 
fly -. ar Larff 



be fooner out of the reach of th 
About a pint of feed is enouG;h ( 
aci e 3 and foon after they put forth 



About a pint of feed is enough for an A//jf"a>t 

th;/ 
fitit 



il 



ni/0 » 






'C£ 



T U H 

ffr ft Ifaf , tliey fhonlr! bchoei and tfio- 
rJnpMy tliinned, and foon after they 
■ffrould bet'.oed again with a fix or fe ven 
inch hoe; this will keep down all 
annua l weed^, and wonderfully afTifl 
the vej;ftatton and growth of the tur- 
Btps, by drawing the earth to the roots 
aiid leaving them fufiicient room to 
fpiead. 

We wouM advife the farmer to be 
rery careful to obtain his feed of a good 
ibrt, and at a dirtance, from a perfon 
er> whom he can rely. 

If the fly fliould attack the turnip*, 
■we advife him to fow fome lime-kiln 
tvood-afhes which have never been 
"wetted over the turnips, v^'hilethedew 
is on them, as from our own experience 
vre can warrant it fuccefsfu}. 

There h»s been another method 
pradltfed in the turnip hufbandry, and 
that is by drilling, which by thofe who 
have tried it, is much recommended, 
Kot ftill, we fancy the broad-Ci(i will 
mitlive the other. Farmers are a pru- 
<tsnt fet of men, and not eafily mifled 
inioitiefchemes of uncertainty ; when- 
ever they nnd rhe praftice is really 
food they will follow it, but ti)ey mufl 
fjsve better evidence than is generally 
given. 

/ When caterpillars attack the tur- 
nips, Mr. Miller recommends to turn 
in hungry poultry. 

When the turnips are all off, Mr. 
Miller fays one ploughing will do for 
barley; — it may be fo, but we will take 
upon ourfelves to fay that three will do 
better ; nor would wechufe to trull to 
one plougliing for barley. Indeed 
when tl;e feafon ran backward, we 
might venture to tru.'l white oats to 
one ploughing, but notiiing but necef- 
fitv Giouid induce ns to do that. 

Turnip-rooted Cabbage. See 
Cabbage. 

TURNSOLE. See Heliotrope. 

TURPFNTINE, [rertbintkia.^ The 
fpecies of tui pentincN kept in the drug- 
gifts fhops are, the Chian or cyprcfs 
turpentine, the Venice turpentine, the 
Straftiu g t'jrp:ruine, and the common 
turpe'itinc, 

The Ciiinn or cyprefs turpentine is 
generally about the conH.lence of thick 
huney, very tenacious, clear, and almoft 
trrinTparent, of a white colour, with a 
cart o\ yellow, and frequently of blue j 
it has a warm, pungent, bitterifh tarte, 



T 1/ R 

and a fragrant fmell, more agreeable 
than any of the other f,»rpentine«. 

This juice is the produce of the com- 
mon terebinth, an cver;^recn tree or 
fhrob, which grows fpontaneoufly in 
the warmer climates, and endures the 
colds of our own. The turpentine 
brought 'o ns, h exrrafled in the 
iftands tvhcfe names it bears, by 
wounding tl e trunk and branches a lit- 
tle after the buds have come forth ; the 
juice ilTues limpid, artd clear as water, 
and by degrees thickens into ihe con- 
filtence in which we mett with it. 
A like juice exuding fiom this tree in 
the ea/lern countries, infpjifated by a 
flow fire, is of frequent u f, as a maf- 
ticatory, among tlte Peifian ladies, who 
(as Kc?mpfer informs us) are conti- 
nually chewing it, in order to faften 
and wliiten the teeth, fweeten the 
breath, and promote appetite. 

Venice turpentine is ufually thinner 
than any of the other forts, of a clear, 
whitilh, or pale yellowifh colour, a hot, 
pungent, bitterifh, difjgreeable taOe, 
and a rtrong fmell, without any thing 
of the fine aromatic flayour of the 
Chian kind. 

The true Venice turpentine is ob- 
taineil from the larch, a large tiee 
g.'-ovving in great abundance upon the 
Alps and Pyrenean mountains, and 
not uncommon in the Englifh gardens. 
What if ufuaMy met with in the fhops, 
under the name of Venice turpentine, 
comes from New England; of what 
tree it is the produce, we have no 
certain account : the liner kinds of it 
are in appearance and quality not con- 
Tiderahly different from the true fort 
above defcribed. 

Strafburgh turpentine is, as we ge- 
nerally meet with it, of a middle con- 
fidence betwixt the two foregoing, 
more tranfparent, and lefs tenacious 
than either; its colour a yellowifh 
brown. Its fmell is very fragrant, and 
more agreeable than that of any of the 
other turpentines, except the Chian; 
in tafle it is the bittereft, yet the lealt 
acrid. 

Common turpentine is the coarfef>, 
heavieft, in ta(te and fnrkeil the moft 
difagreeable, of all the forts; it is 
about the co-^Cf^ence of honey, of an 
opake brownilli white colour. 

This is obtamed from the wild pine, 

a low unhandfome tree, common in 

different 



T U R 



T W Y 



diRcrent pans of Europe: this trte is 
extremely rcfr^ou?, and remarkably 
fub'iefl to a difeafe from a redundance 
and extravafanon of its refin, info- 
much tha(, wicliowt due evacuation, it 
fwclls and l>urlls. The juice, as it if- 
fue» from the nee, is received in trcn- 
chet made in the earth, and afterwards 
freed from the groffer impurities by 
colature through wicker batkets. 

All thefe juices yield in diilillation 
with water, an highly penetrating ef- 
fential oil, a brittle infipid refin re- 
maining behind. With regard to th«lr 
medical virtues, they promote urine, 
cleanfe the parts concerned in the eva- 
cuation thereof, and deterge internal 
ulcers in generil; and at the fame 
time, like other bitter hot fubltances, 
firengthen the tone of the veflfels : they 
have an advantage above moft other 
acrid diuretics, that they gently loofen 
the belly. They are principally re- 
commended in gleets, the ftuor albus, 
and the like; and by fome in calculous 
complaints: where thefe laft proceed 
from fand or gravel, formed into a mafs 
by vifcid mucous matter, the turpen- 
tines, by diffolving the mucus, pro- 
mote the cxpuUion of the fand; but 
where a calculus is formed, they can 
do no fervice, and only ineffe^ually ir- 
ritate or inflame the parts. In all ca- 
fe-, accompanied with inflammation, 
thefe juices oughtto beabftaincd from, 
as this fymprom is Increafed, and not 
unfrequently occafioncd by tbem. It 
is obfcrvable, that tlie turpentines im- 
part, focn after taking them, a violet 
fmell to the urin^; and have this ef- 
fect, though applied only externally to 
remote parts; particularly the Venice 



fort. This is accooDted the mo(\ pow- 
erful as a diuretic and detergent; aod 
the Chian and Straiburgh as corrobo- 
rants: the Stralburgh is an ir.greditatt 
in the mn'curial pills and Locateilus's 
balfam, and tliC Chian in mitliridate 
and thcriaca. The common tu'-pco- 
tine, as being the moft oflfcnfive, is 
rarely given internally. Its principal 
ufe is in plailiers and cintmer>t«, 
among farricrs,-ax>dfor the diftUlatto* 
of the oil or fpiric, as it is called. The 
dofe of thefe juicesis from a fere pie' lo 
a dram and a halt: they are mort co«i- 
modioufly laken in the form of a bo- 
Jus, or dilTclved in watery liquors by 
the mediation of the yolk cf an egg or 
mucilage. Of the diftiiled oil, a {em 
drops are a fufiicient dofe: thii is a 
moll potent, ftimulating, detergent di- 
uretic, oftentimes greatly heats tl*e 
conftitutioD, and requires the uUEoil 
caution in its exhibition. 

TvK^EHTlKzTree, SceMASTIC 

Trfe. 

f^tnice TuBrrKTlNE T,ee. Th* 
Larch tree. 

TUTSAN. St. John's Wort. 

TWIFALLOWING. Ploughing 
the ground a ftccnd time. 

Heab Tu'opencc, [NumiKu7aria.'\ 
This grows f{X)ntaneoufly in moift wa- 
tery place?, and creeps on the grounii, 
with two little roundifh leaves at Cich 
joint. Their tafle is fubaftringenr, and 
very lightly acid; lience they ftand re* 
commended by Bcerliaave in the hot 
fcurvy, and in uterine and other hx~ 
morrhages. But their efFe£ts arefoia- 
confiderable, that com,^lon prafticc 
takes no notice of them. 

TWYBLADE, SeeBi/oii. 



(J , i. ^ /J ^ef/- /f/t^ /-7/c£ o/i / /^ ffeS ? fy . 



VALi 



V. 



V A L 

VALE. Low ground ; a valley. 
VALERIAN, [yjeriana.] There 
are many fpecies of this plant, but that 
chkfly eHeemed, is the mountain, or 
wild valerian, the roots ol which are 
much ufed in medicine. 

This root confifts of a number of 
firings or fibres matted together, ilfu- 
iog from one common head J ofawhi- 
tifti or pale brownilh colour : its fmell 
is Urong, like a mixture of aromatics 
with foetidsj tiie tafte unpleafantly 
warm, bitterirti, and fubacrid. There 
is another wild valerian, with broader 
leaves, of a deeper and Ihining i;reen 
colour, met with in watery places,' 
.feoch forts have hitherto been ufed in- 
difcriminattiy, and Linnaeus has joine<l 
them into one fpecies, uiidei the name 
of Valeriana foiih cmnilius ^mnaiis. Our 
college have reftrained the lliops to the 
firft, which is conliderably the llrong- 
ert, and lofcs of its quality, if tranf- 
planted into fuch foils as the other 
naturally deliglits in. The roots, pro- 
duced in low watery grounds, have a 
remarkably faint fmell in compatifon 
of the others, and fometimes fcaice any 
at all. Wild valerian ii a medicine of 
gfeat ufe in netvous diforders, and is 
particularly feivicrable in epilepfies 
proceeding from a debility of tiie ner- 
vous fyfttm. It was firft brought into 
efteeni in thefe cafes by Fabiiis Co- 
lumna, who by taking the powdered 
root, in the dofe of half a fpoonful, 
was cured of an inveterate epilepfy 
after many other medicines had been 
tried in vain. Repe?ted experience has 
fince confirmed its efficacy in thib dif- 
order ; and the prefent pra£lice lays 
confiderahlelhcf^ upon it. The com- 
mon dcfe is from a fcruple to a diarn, 
in infufion Irom one to two drams. 
Its unjjleafanr flavour is mofl cfFeflu- 
ally concealed by a fuitabie addition 
c£ mace. 



V E G 

Grttk Valerian. See Crzek 
Va l e r I a n . 

VAN. An inftrument to winnow 
corn. 

VASCULIFEROUS Ptaiin. Such 
whofe feeds are contained in vefTels 
divided into cells. 

VAT. A vefTel for holding wine, 
ale, beer, cyder, &c. in the timeoLtlieir 
preparation, /f!/lfa CAc^^^ &a/~ 

UDDER. That part of a cow, mare, 
ewe, &c. where the milk is prepared, 
anfwering to the breafts in women. 

VEGETABLE. A term applied to 
all plants, confldercd as capable of 
growth, i. e. all natural bodies which 
have parts organically formed for ge- 
neration and accretion, but not fenfa- 
tion. 

Vegetables, according to the analyfes 
made of them by chemirtry, are diflin- 
guifhable into two grand tribes, the 
acid and tiie alkalinej the firft afford- 
ing a volatile acid, and the fecond a 
volotile alkali, upon a dry diftillaticn; 
thus guaiacum, cedar, box, cinnamon, 
cloves, forrel, mint, halm, &.-c. afford 
an acid; but garlic, onion?, horfe-ra- 
dilh, fcurvy-grafs, mullard, ice. afford 
an alkali, which rectified, is hardly 
diftinguifhable from that of animal 
fubftances, fo as nearly to refemble the 
fpirit and fait of hartlhorn. 

VEGE lATION. Tlie aft whereby 
plants receive their nourifhment and 
growths; of which, three principal 
funflions are underftood, viz. nutri- 
tion, increaft. and generation. 

From Scripture we learn, that the 
earth has been endued, from the be- 
ginninr, with a cerjain reminal viitue 
to produce plants; which virtue, pro- 
ceeding from God, was not confined 
to the firft pi odiiflion ol" things, but 
extends likewife to all futi;re confe- 
quences of times; and this factilty 
-which the earth has of producing 
plants, 



V F. T 



V I N 



plants, is from this commandment of 
the Almighty: " Let the earth bring 
I'oith grafs, tlie herb yielding feed, and 
the fruit-tree yielding fruit after his 
kind, whofe feed is in itfelf upon the 
earth; and it was fo." 

VELLING. I'ioughing, or cutting 
up the turf, or upper furface of the 
ground, in order to ics being burnt. 

VENTILATOR. A math ne by 
which the noxious air of any clofe place 
(as an hofpital, jail, (hip, chamber, 
granary, Sec.) may be changed for fredi 
air. 

VE.VUS' COMB. See StvftrFzus. 

Venvs' Looking Glass. Corn 
Violet. 

Vt N vs' Navel woR T. See /^i»ai' 
Navelwokt. 

VERJUICE. A liquor obtained 
from grapes or apples too acid for wine 
or cyder. It is generally made in 
England from the juice of the crab, or 
wild apple, 

VERMIN. A coUeaivc name in- 
cluding all kinds of fmall animals, 
that are troublefome to men, beaHs, 
corn, fruits, tec. 

^'ERNAL. Something belonging to 
the fpringfeafon. 

VERTICULATEP/tfB». Such as 
produce their flowers round thejoints 
of the Aalks in whorles ; as hylTop, 
mint, thyme, &c. 

VERVAIN, [Fcrica ] This plant 
is very common on the fides of roads, 
foot-paths, and farm-yards, near habi- 
tations ; for although there is fcarce 
any part of Enf^land, in which this is 
not founi in plenty, yet it is never 
found above a quarter of a mile from a 
houfe; which occafioned its being 
called Simpier's Joy, bccaufe where- 
ever this plant is found growing, it is 
afure token of a houfe bein^near j this 
is a certain fa£t, but not eafy to be ac- 
counted for. It is rarely cultivated in 
gardens, but is the fort dire^ed by the 
College of Phyficians for medicinal ufe, 
and is brought to the markets by thofe 
who gather it in the fields. 

There are many other fpecles of 
vervain, natives of different counties, 
fome of which are too tender to bear 
the cold of our climate, and require 
the aflTiftance of the green-houfe and 
flovc. 

Vektain M ^LLow. Hollyhock. 

VETCH. Stc Taijc. 

Vol.11. 



Bitter ViTCH. See Bima 

Vetch, 
Chicklin VzTCM. S«e Chicxlin 

Vetch, '/•.i . t','*,' , .t»,~ , 

Cr'mfcn Graft Vbtch. Chicklin 
Vetch, *- 

Hjtchet'VzTCH,\^Stcundace.'\ This 
plant grows naturally in the corn-fields 
in Spain and Italy; it is annual, and 
haih trailing herbaceous (talks, which 
grow a foot and a half bng, dividing 
into many branchei, which fpread on 
the ground, garnilhed with winged 
leaves, compofcd o; feven or eight pair 
of oval obtufe lobes terminated by an 
odd one, of a deep green and fmooth. 

It is propagated by fowing the feeds 
in borders of light earth in the fpring, 
in the places where the plants are to 
abide, for they feldom fucceed well if 
they are tranfplanted ; they (hould be 
allowed at leaft two feet di (lance, be- 
caufe their branches trail upon the 
ground. When the plants come up, 
they will require no other care but to 
thin them where they are too clofe, 
and keep them clean from weeds, A 
few of thefe plants may be admitted 
into every good garden for variety^ 
though there is no great beauty in their 
flowers. 

Horfe-fiiae ViTCH.- S»e Hoiit 
Vetch. 

Liquarlct Vetch. See WiiD Li- 
<iyo9.icr. 

Milk Vetch. Liquorice Vetch. 

VETCHLING, [Apcca.] This plant 
is found wild in divers parts of Eng- 
land on arable land, but is feidom pre- 
ferved in gardens. It is an annual 
plant, which perifhes foon after thp 
feeds are perfected, 

VINE, [r/m.] There are a great 
number oi grapes cultivated in the gar- 
dens, and are all propagated either from 
layers or cuttings, the latter of which 
is the more preferable method ; for the 
roots of vines do not grow llrong and 
woody, as in moft forts of trees, but 
are long, dender, and pliable ; there- 
fore when they are taken out of the 
ground they feldom (\rike out any fi- 
bres from the weak roots, which gene- 
rally (hrivel and dry ; fo that they rather 
retard than help the plants in their 
growth, by preventing the new fibres 
from pufhing out; for which reafon it 
is bettter to plant a good cutting than 
a rooted plant, provided it be well 
Z X chofcn. 



V I K 



V I N 



choren, for tliere is little danger of its 
growing. 

But as there are few perfons wlio 
make choice of proper cutcings, or at 
leaft that form tlieir cuttings rightly in 
England, fo it will he proper to give 
direflions for thia in the firft place. 
Ycu Ihould alwavs make choice of fucli 
(hoots as are llrong and well riptned 
of the; lafl year's growth ; thefe (houltl 
be cut A cm the old vine,ju(t below the 
place wlierc they were produced, taking 
a knot or piece of the two-years wood 
to each, which fhculd be pruned 
fmooth ; then you fhculd cut off the 
upper part of the fhoots, fo as to leave 
the cutting about fixtetn inches 1 "g. 
When the piece or kno' of old wcod is 
cut at both ends near the yuun^ Inoot, 
the cuttings will rt-fembJc a li-k- mil- 
let; from wlientc cchimeil.i gives t'lc 
title of maleohis to the vine-cutting . 
In making the cuttings .ilter this man- 
ner, there can he but one taken fioin 
each fhoot; wheic;is mcft ptrfcns cut 
them into lengths of about a toot, and 
plant them all, which is very wrong, 
lor the upper part of the iTioots arc 
never fo well ripened as the lower, 
which was produced early in the fprin,"^, 
and has had tlie whole (ummerto har- 
den j A> that if they take root, they 
never makefogoor! plants, for the wood 
of thofe cuttings being fpongy and folt, 
admitstiie moiituretoo ficely, whereby 
the plants will be luxuriant in growth, 
but neverfofruitful as fuel' wl.ofe wood 
is clofcr and more compadV. 

When the cuttings are thus prepa- 
red, if they are not then planted, they 
fhould be placed with their lower part 
in the ground in a dry foil, laying fome 
litter upon their upper parts to pre- 
vent them from drying: in this fitua- 
ticn they may remain till the beginning 
of April, (which is the belt time for 
planting th»m) when you fhould take 
them out, and wafh them frem the filth 
they have contracted; and if you find 
them very dry, ycu fhould ht them 
Ifand with their lower parts in water 
1)X or eiglit hours, which will diftend 
theirvelTels, and difpofe them fcr ta- 
king root, Then the ground be- 
ing before prepared where tiic plants 
are defigned ro remain (whethei" againft 
walls or for ftandards, for they ihould 
.not be remove:^ again) the cuttines 
fhculd be planted i -but in pieparipg 
the ^rjund ycu (hould confidei tlje na- 



turc of the foil, which, if ftronft, and 
inclinable lo '■ ci, is by no me<»n-. pro- 
per for grapes ; thcrdore v(.'l.tre it {o 
happens, ycu Ihould open a trench 
where tlie cutiin^s are lo br (^iantni, 
wiiicl! fli< uhl he filled w'.ili Jime, uih- 
bifh, the better to drain tff -ihe troif- 
turej then r.iife the border with fredi 
lighc cai tli about ;\vo itct thick, iotliac 
it may beat lead a itccjibov^ the !■ vel 
of the greund; tlcn you li.<.>uld open 
the hcici at about (ix Icet dilt.'.nce iicm 
each other, putting ore gooil, fli org 
cuttini: into t.tth hole, wlT'cii (7iould 
be Jaid a nttlt ilt^in;^, that tlieir lops 
may incline laithe whU : but it mull 
If . Ill in fo deep, a^ tl.:it the upper- 
)r"i' '■' may be level vijrth the futface 
CI .-^nA ■ f^r \^ hen any part of 

tl.s * ovc ground, as is 

tl'r i ufed by the En- 

gillli '< . ■ (M the bi_;t'< 3C- 

tenipi ic it the ftrengih of 

the <■( t, -•■' to nouiilh lo 

iiuny iho<7ti, wh-ch muJt of courf:; be 
w taker t:han n on)/ oneol ihemgrewj 
whcitas, on lb? contrary, by burying 
the wiiole cui'ii.g in the ground, the 
fap is all ernpK ycd on one lingle fhoot, 
which tonliquen'ly w ill be much Hron- 
ger; bcfic'es, the fun and air are apt to 
dry that part of the cutting which re- 
m.iins above ground, an(. fo oiten pre- 
vents th'.ir buds from fliooting. 

Then having placed the cutting into 
the cround, you iliculd nil up the hole 
gently, ( refTing down the earth with 
your foot clofc about it, and raife a lit- 
tle hill jurt upon the top of the cut- 
ting, to cover tl.e upper eye quite over, 
which will prevent it from drying; 
this being done, there is nothing moie 
neceffary but to keep the ground clear 
froni weeds until the cuttings begin to 
fhoot; at wliich time you fhculd look 
over them carefully, to rub cff any 
fmall /hoots, if fuch are produced, faf- 
tening the fii (1 main (hoot to the wall, 
which fhould be conllantly trained up, 
as ic is extended in length, to prevent 
its bieaking or hanging down; you 
mufl cortinue to lot k over thefe once 
in about three weeks during the futn- 
mtr feal'on, conllantly rubbing oft' all 
lateral fhoots which areprcdjoed ; ard 
be fiire (o keep the ground confianily 
clear from weeds, which, if fuffered.to 
grow, will exhaull the good nefs.o* the 
foil and rtatve the cuttings. 

The 



V I N 



V I N 



T1.C Michaelmas foUowJnp, if your 
cuttings have produced 1^: out; (hoois, 
you (houW prune ihcm down to two 
ryes. 

In the fprtn?, after theccld weather 
is p.iit, >oii mull eeotly rig up the 
hor^^eij to Kx,feTi tlie t.irih ; but you 
mull he very c^retul in doing this, not 
to injjpe il:e roots cf the vines; you 
fhooH aifo riifc the earth up to the 
Items of the plants, fo as to cover the 
eld wood, i'Ut not fo {"eep as to cover 
ei;h:rcf theeyesof tht laft years wood. 
Ar'ttr this they will lequirc no farther 
care until tb:y begin to fboot, when 
you fi^iould jook ovr; them carefully, 
to rub off jII weak dangling fhoot:, 
leaving no more tii^n the two fhooti, 
wl.ich arepro-Iuced from the two eves 
cf the laft year's wood, which Ihouid 
he faftened to tlie wall ; and fo from 
thi-.. until the vines have done rtioot- 
in^, you (hculd lock them over one; in 
three weeks or a month, to rub elf all 
lateral fho ts as they are produced, and 
to falten the main Ihoots to the wall 
as tliey are extended in length, which 
muJt not be iliortened hefore the mid- 
dle or latter end of July, when it will 
be proper to nip off their tops, wiiich 
vill ilrengthen the lower eyes, and cu- 
ring the fummer feafcn you mull con- 
ilantly keep the ground clear from 
wteds ; nor (hould you permit any fort 
of plants to grow near tie vines, 
which would net only rob them of 
nourifhment, but (hade the lower parts 
of t!:t (hooti, and thereby preventtheir 
ripening ; which will not only caufe 
their wood to befpong^ and luxuriant, 
but render it lefs fruitful. 

As foon as the leaves begin to drop 
in autumn, you fhculd prune thefe 
young vines again, leaving three buds 
to each of the iTiocis, provided they are 
ftrong; otherwife it is better to ihor- 
ten them down to two eyes if they are 
good, for it is a very wrong pradtice to 
leave much wood upon young vines, or 
to leave their fhoots too long, which 
preaily weakens the roots ; then you 
fhould fafl'.n them to the wall, fpread- 
ing them out horizontally each way, 
that there may be room to train the 
new fhoots the following fummer, and 
in the fpring the borders rnuft be dig- 
ged as before. 

The tliird feafon you muft go over 
the vines again, as foon as they begin 
tj (hoot, to rub cti' jU danjirtj !■> ■;c- 



fore, and train the ftrong (hoots Jo their 
proper places, vkhich this year may ba 
(uppofed to be twc from each fhoot of 
Ja!t year's wood ; but if they attempt 
to prtduce two (hoots from one eye, 
the weaken of them mult be rubbed 
off, for there (houid never be mere than 
one allowe'* to come out of each eye. 
If any cf them produce fruit, as many 
times they will the third year, you 
(hould not flop iliem fo foon as is ge- 
nerally praclifed upon the bearing 
ihoots of old vines, but permit them to 
(hioot forward till a month alter Mid- 
fummer, at which time you mty pinch 
off the tops of the (hoots ; for if this 
were dene too foon, it would fpoil the 
buds for the next year's wood, which 
in young vines mull be more carefully 
preferved than on older plants, becaufe 
there are no other to be laid in for a 
fupply of wood, as is commonly prac- 
tifed on old vines. 

During the fummer you muft con- 
ftantlygo over your vines, anddifplacc 
all weak lateral (hoots as they are pro- 
duced, and carefully keep the ground 
clear from weeds, as was before di- 
re<fted, that the (hoots may ripen well, 
which is a material thing to be obfer- 
ved in moft forts of fruit-trees, but 
efpecialJy in vines, which feldom pro- 
duce any fruit from immature bran- 
ches, Thefe things being duly obfer- 
ved, are ail that is necefTary in the 
managemtnt of young vines. 

Spar.}/}; Arbor W int. Bindweed, 

z'rij-iT >■ Briony. 

VINEGAR, [Aicfum.] An add 
penetrating liquor, prepared from 
wine, cyder, beer, &c. of confiderable 
ufe both as a medicine and fauce. 

The proccfs of turning vegetable 
matters to vinegar, is thus delivered by 
Dr. Shaw. Take the (kins of raifins, 
after they have been ufed in making 
wine, and pour three or four times 
their own quantity of boiling water 
upon them, fo as to make a thin aque- 
ous mixture. Then fet the containing 
ca(k, lo«fely covered, ina warmer place 
than is ufcd for vinous fermentation ; 
and the liquor ina few weeks time will 
become a clear and found vinegar; 
which being drawn off from its fedi- 
nienr, and prtfcrved in ano'her calk, 
well ftopped down, will continue per- 
fect, and fit far ufp. 



V I N 



V I N 



"fills experiment fhews ms a cheap 
ind ready way of making vinegar from 
refufe materials ; fuch as the liufks of 
grapes, decayed raifms, the lees of 
wine, fjrounds of ale, btci , ice. which 
■re frecjuently thrown away as ufelcfs. 
T hus, in many wine countiies, the 
inarc, rape, or dry preffing of grapes, 
arc thrown in heaps, and fuffeicd to 
putiify unregarded, though capable of 
affording as good vinegar as the wine 
Iifelf. In fome places they bury cop- 
per plates in thefe hulks, in order to 
make verdigrcafe; but this practice 
feems chiefly confined to the fouthern 
parts cf France. Our prefent experi- 
ment (hews us how to convert them to 
anotherufe; and the direction extends 
to all the matters that have once un- 
dergone, or are fit to undergo a vinous 
fermentation, for that ail fuch matters 
will afford vinegar. Thus all our 
funimer-fruits in England, even black- 
berries ; all the refufe walhings of a 
fugar-houfe, cyder-preiTings, or the 
like, will make vinegar, by means of 
water, the open air, and vvai mth. 

The whole procefs, whereby tliis 
change is eflfedted, deferves to be at- 
tentively cpnfidered; and firft, the li- 
quor to be thus changed, being kept 
warmer than in vinous fermentation, 
it begins in a few days to grow thick 
or turbid J and without throwing up 
bubbles, or making any confiderable 
tumult, as happens in vinous fermen- 
tation, depofiis a copious fediment. 

The effedt of this feparation begins 
to appear firll on the furface of the li- 
quor, which gathers a white llcin, that 
daily increafes in thicknefs, till at 
length it becomes like leather j and 
now, if continued longer in this ftate, 
the fkin turns blue, orgreen, and would 
2t laft grow folid, and putrify ; there- 
fore, in keeping down this fkin as it 
grows, and thruHing it gently down to 
the bottom of the veflel, confilh much 
of the art of vinegai-making, efpeci- 
ally from malt. 

Method of mah'wgCyJcr Vinegar. The 
cyder (the meaneft of which will ferve 
thepurpof..) is firft to be drawn off 
fhH into another veffel, and a quantity 
cf muft, or pouz of apples, to be ad- 
ded ; the whole is to be fet in the fun, if 
there be a conveniency for the pur- 
pofe ; and at a week or nine days end, 
it j«ay be drawn off. 



Mef.id cfmak'ttifr Beer Vinegar, Take 
a middling fort of beer, indifferently 
well hopped; intowliich, wbtnithst 
worked well, and is grown fine, put 
fome rape, or hulk of grapes, ufualiy 
brought home for that purpofc j malb 
them together in a tub, then, letting 
the rape fettle, draw cff the liquid part, 
put it into a caiTc, and fet it in the fun 
as hot as may be (the bung only cove- 
red wiih a tile or (late-ftone) and in 
about thirty or forty days, it will be- 
come a good vinegar, and may pafs in 
ufe as well as that made of wine, if it 
be itfincd, and kept from turning 
mufty. 

Or thu« : to every gallon of fpring- 
water, add three pounds of MaUga- 
raifins ; which put into an earthen jar, 
and place them where they may have 
the hotfert fun fiom May till Michael- 
ntas J then preffing all well, tun the 
liquor up in a very rtrong iron-hcoped 
veffel, to prevent its burlling; it will 
appear very thick and muddy, when 
newly prefied ; but will refine in tl.c 
veffel, and be as clear as wine. 

Thus let it remain untouched for 
three months, before it be drawn off, 
and it will prove excellent vinegar. 

Met htd of making fytiu Vint^ar, Any 
fort of vinous liquor, being mixed 
with its own fa?ces, flowers, or fer- 
ment, and its tartar, fiift reduced to 
powder; or elfe with the acid and au- 
l\ere rtalks of the vegetable from 
whence the wine was obtained, which 
hold a large proportion of tartar ; and 
the whole being kept frequently Ulr- 
ring in a veffel which has formerly held 
vinegar, or fet in a warm place full of 
the (teams of the fame, will begin to 
ferment anew, conceive heat, grow four 
by degrees, and foon turn into vinegar. 

The remote fubje/fts of acetous fer- 
mentation are the f^me with thofe of 
vinous; but the immediate fubjedts of 
it are all kinds of vegetablejuicCF, after 
they have once undergone that fer- 
mentation v»hich reduces them to 
wine ; for it is abfolutely impoifible to 
make vinegar of mult, the crude juice 
of grapes, or other ripe fruits, without 
the previous affiftance of vinous fer- 
mentation. 

The proper ferments for this opera- 
tion, whereby vinegar is prepared, arc, 
r. The fxces of all acid wines. 2. 
The leys of vinegar. 3. Puiverifed 
tartar ( 



V I N 



V I O 



tartir 5 efpccl*lly that of . Jicnifti wine, 
or the cream, or chryllali thereof. 4. 
Vinegar itftlf. 5. A wooden velTcl 
well drenched with vine«;«r, or one 
that has been long employed to con- 
tain it, 6. Wine that has often been 
mixed with its own frees. 7. The 
twigs of vines, and the <talksof grapes, 
currants, cheriies, and other vegeta- 
bles of an acid au(\ere taite. 8. Ba- 
ker's leaven, after it is turned acid. 9. 
All manner of ferments, compounded 
of thofe already mentioned. 

The French ufe a method of ma- 
king vinegar different from th.it above 
defcribed. They take two large oaken 
velTeis, the larger the better, open at 
top ; in each of which they place a 
wooden grate, wiiliin a foot of the bot- 
tom; upon thefe grates they firrt lay 
twi's, or cuttings of vines, and after- 
wards the Halksof the bunches without 
the grapes thcmfelvef, or their fVones ; 
till the whole pile reache> within a foot 
of the brim of the velTcls ; then tliey 
fill one of thefe vellels witli wine to 
the very top, and half fill the other; 
«nd with liquor drawn out of the full 
veflel, fill up that which was only half 
full before; daily repeating the fame 
operation, and pouring the liquor 
back from one velFel into another; fo 
that each of them is full, and half full, 
by turns. 

When this procefs has been conti- 
nued for two or three days, a degree of 
heat will arife in the vellel, which is 
then but half full, and increafe for fe- 
veral days fucceiTively, without any 
appearance of the like in the vefTcl 
which happens to be full, during thofe 
•lays; the liquor whereof will ftill re- 
main cool; and as foon as the heat cea- 
fes in the vefTel that is half full, the 
vinegar is prepared : which, in the 
fummer, happens on the fourteenth or 
fifteenth day from the beginning; but 
in the winter, the fermentation pro- 
ceeds much flower, fo that they are 
obliged to forward it by artificial 
warmth, or the ufe of (loves. 

When the weather is exceeding hot, 
the liquor ought to be poured off from 
the full vefTel into the other twice a 
day; otherwife the liquor will b« 
over-heated, and the fermentation 
prove too flrong ; whence the fpiri- 
tuous parts will f^y away, and le^ive a 
vapid wine, inftead of a vinegar behind. 



The full vefTel 'S always to be left 
open at the top, but the mouth of the 
other mufl be clofed with a cover of 
wood, in order the better to keep down 
and fix the fpirit in the body of the li- 
quor; otherwife, it might eafily fly off 
in the heat of fermentation. The vef- 
fel that is only half full feems to grow 
hot rather than the other, becaufe it 
contains a much greater quantity of 
the vine-twigs and (talks, than that^ 
in proportion to the liquor ; above 
which, the pile rifing to a confiderable 
height, conceives heat the more, and 
fo conveys it to the wine below. 

Vinegar is a medicine of excellent 
ufe in all kinds of inflammatory and 
putrid diforders, either internal or ex- 
ternal; in ardent bilious fevers, pe(li- 
lential and other malignant diftempers, 
it is recommended by Boerliaaveasone 
of the mofl certain fudorifics. Weak- 
nefs, fainting, vomiting, hy(\erical and 
hypochondriacal complaints have alfo 
been frequently relieved by vinegar ap- 
plied to the mouth or nofe, or received 
into the ftomach. Diflilled vinegar 
has the fame virtues, only in a Itronger 
degree. 

There are alfo medicated vinegars ; 
as vinegar of antimony, of elder, li- 
tharge, rofe3,fqui lis, treacle, Sec. which 
clerive their chief virtues from the vi- 
negar. 

VINEYARD. A plantation of 
v3r.es without the alTiflance of walls. 

VINOUS. Something that relates 
to wine, or that hath the tafte and 
fmell of it, 

VINTAHE. A crop of grapes, or 
the produce of a vineya.'d each 
feafon- 

VIOLET, [P^io.ia.] This is often 
found wild in hedges and fhady places, 
and flowers in March; the fliops are 
generally fupplied from the gardens. 
In our markets we meet with the 
flowers of a different fpecies ; thefe may 
be dirtlnguifhed from the foregoing by 
their being larger, of a pale colour, 
and of no fmcll. The officinal flow- 
ers have a very pleafant fmell, and a 
deep purpllfh blue colour, denomina- 
ted from them violet. They impart 
their colour and flavour to aqueous 
liquors: a fyrup m.ide from this infu- 
fion has long maintained a place in 
the (hops, and proves an agreeable and 
ufeful laxative for chiJdren. 

Dame't 



V I R 



UR E 



Daim's Violet. See D.'.me's 

V lO L E T . 

£o/i>.us Vioi.ZT. Snowdrop. 

Bog'i 'Toich Violet, See Dec's 
Too't H. 

Corn Violet. See Corn Vx o l t r . 

VIP£R. The nairje ol a well- 
known ferpent, common in many p:irts 
ot England. 

The baching tlie part bit by a viper 
with olive oil, is faid to ert'-rclualiy 
prevent the fatal conftquencci thac 
would oiherwife attend it. 

Vir er's Bu G LOSS, [£<:A/um.] Tiiis 
plant grows naturally on chalky lands 
ill moll parts ot" England. There are 
leveral fpecies brought into the Englifh 
gardens, from Germany, France, Por- 
tugal, and other countries, fome of 
which are annu<il, and feme biennial 
plants. They are pvopagate<l by feeds. 

Viper's Gkass, [^Scorz-jierj.^ 1 his 
plant is cultivited in the Englifn gar- 
dens for food and phyfic -y it grows 
naturally in Spain. The root is car- 
iot-(haped, about the thicknefs of a fin- 
ger, covered with a dark brown ikin, 
is white within, and has a milky juictj 
ihe lower leaves are long, ending with 
a long acute point; they are waved 
and linuated attheir edges. The rtalk 
riles three feet high, ia fmoo^h, branch- 
ing at the top, and garniflied with a 
few narrow leaves, whofe bafe hilf 
embrace the ilalk. The flowers ter- 
minate the ftalks in fcaly empakments, 
compofed of many narrow, tongue- 
fhaped hermaphrodite florets, lying 
imbricatim over each other like the 
fcales on fiili; they are of a bright yel- 
low colour, Aiter thefe are decayed, 
the germen which (its in the common 
einpalemenc turns to oblong cornered 
feeds, having a roundifh ball of fea- 
thery down at the top. There are fe- 
veral fpecies kept in the gardens, all 
propagated by feeds. 

VIRGIN'S BOWER. See Clim- 

VIRGINIAN SILK. [Pmf;!:ca.] 
This plant grows naturally in Syria, 
but is hardy enough to thrive in tlic 
opsnairin England. It hath twining 
flirubby ;lalks, covered with a dark 
bjrk, which twill round any neigh- 
bouring fuppcrt, and will rife more 
than forty feet high, fending out len- 
der branches from the Iidt.3, which 
.twine round each other, and are ijar- 



ninicd witli oval fpear-ftaprd leaver 
near Tour inches long, and two brOad 
in the middle, of a lucirt green on their 
upper lidc, I)', pale on thtir under, 
ftanding by paiu upon fhort foitftalks. 

Thii ii hardy enough to thrive in 
this country wit!) a little proteffion 
fiom the froft of the wii.ttr. Another 
foil brought from Vera Cruz requires 
the alfillaiice of a warm flove. 

Virginian Acacia. Sec Aca- 
cia. 

VITRIOL. A faline chryflalline 
concrete, compofed of metal, and an 
acid, fiinilar to tliofe of fulphiir and 
allum. There are but three metallic 
bodies, which this acid i^ capaSIe of 
perfciPly dilTclving or bcin" united 
w:t'i i t') a chrydatline 3;i|>earancc, 
z'lr.Cy copper, and iron j with t'^e fii It 
it forms a white, wir^i the fecoiid a 
blue and with the third a gicen fait. 

ff^hiie Vi THIOL. Found in the 
mines of Goflar, fometimes in tranlf- 
parent pieces, but more commonly in 
form of white ttflorefcencts, which arc 
diflblved in water, and afterwards re- 
duced by evaporation and chryrtalli- 
zation into large milfss. 

£/«<; Vitriol. Greatefl part of 
the bl'je vitriol at prefcnt met with in 
the fhops, is faid to be artificially pre- 
pared by uniting copper with the 
vitriolic acid. 

Cr^fH Vitriol, This is prepared 
in large quantity at Deptford, by dif- 
folving iron in the acid liquor, which 
runs from certain fulphurcous pyrites 
expofed for a length of time. 

ULIGIN'OUS. An appellation gi- 
ven to a moift, moorifli, and fenny 
foil. 

UMBEL. The extremity of a rtalk 
or branch of a plant, divided into fe- 
veral peHundes, or rays, beginning 
from tlic: fame point, and opening in 
fjch a manner, as to form an inverted 
cone. 

UMBELLIFEROUS Phns. Thcfe 
whofe fl-.wers are produced in an um- 
bel, on tlie top of the (talks, fomewhat 
refemhling an umbrella. Of this kintj 
;;re the fennel, parfley, parfnip, carrot, 
liemlock, lcc. 

UNDERWOOD. Coppice, or any 
wood not accounted timber. 

VOOR. Fallow land. 

URE. The udder of a cow, fJieep, 
or other animal. 

URllH. 



U R I 



U T E 



URITH. Ltlieiingi, or windings 
of hedfges. 

URRy. A fort of blue or black 
clay, lying near a vein of coal. 

L'RIN'K. A ferous and falins mat- 
ter feparated from the blood of ani- 
niils, and emitted by the canal of the 
Lretlira. 

It ii of excellent ufc as a nunure, 
^%hen deprived of its Lot fiery particles 
by lime, which wiil fo alter its nature 
r.s to render it an extraordinary ferti- 
liz-^r of every kind of foil. Columella 
certifies that old urine is excellent for 
the roots of trees. Mr. Harilib com- 
mends the Dutch for preferving the 
urine of cows as carefully as they do 
the dung, to enrich tlicir lands j and 
initances a woman he knew near 
Ca.ntetbtjry, wlio f.ivud in a pail all the 
urine fhe could, ai.d v.l'.en the pail 
was full, fprinkkd it on her meadow, 
the grafs of which jjoked yellow at 
firfl, but afterwards ^;:-w fuiprilin^ly. 
Similar to this is v.-i.a: Mr. Bradley 
relates, as oi his own knowk-dge. 
Human urine was thrown into a little 



pit conftantly every day, for three or 
four years. Two years after, fome 
earth was taken out of this pit, and 
niixeJ with twice at n.ucn other 
eatth, to till up a hollow place in a 
grafs waik. The turf which was laid 
upon this fpot grew fo largely and vi- 
goroufly, btfides being much greener 
tlian the tcft, that by the beft compu- 
tation he could make, its grafs, in a 
month's time, was above lour times as 
much ill quantity as that of any other 
fpot of the fame fizc, though the vvliolc 
walk waj laid on very rich ground. 
The author of the Englifh Improver is 
therefore very right in fa>ing, that hu- 
man virine is of greater worth, and will 
fatten land more, than is generally 
imagined by.our farmers, whom head- 
vifes to taks all Opportunities of pre- 
ferving this, and every fort of urine, 
for their ground, as ca.'eiiilly as is done 
in ^Jclland. 

USTILACO. The fame with burnt 
gr.Mn, 

UTENSIL. A donieftic moveable 
of any kind. 



W. 



WAD, black lead. 
WAGGON, a vehicle or car- 
riage, of which there are various 
forms, accommodated to the different 
i.fes they are intended for. See tt: ar- 
ticle Wh TEL. 

WAIF, an eftray, which for want 
of the ovi-ner's appearance after it has 
been cried and published in the neigh- 
bouring market', is forfeited to the 
lord • f ;l.e minor. 

WAKE ROBIN. See Arum. 

WALKS are mads eitlier of gravel, 
fand, or grafs; thefc three for:;, of 
walks are the moft common in Eng- 
land ; but where gravel or f:ind cannot 
be procured, thty are fometimes l..jd 
wi:h pov.dered ccl, fta-coal ail; ', 
and fometimes of powdered bri:!c, '. u: 
thefe are rar'ly ufcd, when J'her gia- 
vsl or fand can be procured j however, 
where fea coal a/hes c^n he had, it is 
preferable to the powdered coal or 



bricks, becaufc they bind very hard, 
and never Hick to the feet in frofty 
weath^r^ which is a good quality, hut 
the darkiiefs of its co'our has been ai\ 
objif^ion to the ufe of it in gardens ; 
however,for wildernefs-walks we think 
it is preferable to moll other materials ; 
but we fhall proceed to ^ive diredlions 
for the making of the feverai forts of 
■walks, an' fir II of the gravel walks. 

In order f? the laying of walks in 
jrardens, when they are marked out, 
the earth fhould be taken away to a 
certain depth, that the bottom of them 
riay be filled with fome litne-rubbilh, 
or coarfe gravel, flint ftone>, or other 
rocky materials, which 'will be fervice- 
'^'e to prevent weeds from grcwin?^ 
t; ough the gravel, and alfo to keep 
dv.ay worm-cafts. This bottom (hould 
1 c laid ten inches or a foot thick, over 
wrich the coat of grivtl fhould be fix 
or tijiit inches J which gravel ihould 

be 



W A L 



W A L 



be fine, but yet not (Ttreencd, becauCe 
that fpoils it. This fhould be laid on 
a heap, rounding, that the larger rough 
itones may run down on the fides, 
which being every now and then raked 
off, the gravel by that means will be 
futficiently fine. 

After the gravel has been laid to the 
thickncfs above mentioned, then the 
walks mufl be exaQly levelled, and 
raked true from all great drips, as well 
as little holes. By this means moft of 
the ftones of the walks will be raked 
under your feet, which fhould rather 
be gently fprinkled back again, over 
the la(t length that is raked, than bu- 
ried, (as is the praftlce of many gar- 
deners) for by tliis means the walk 
will lie much harder, and the coarfclt 
ftones will very much contribute to its 
firmnefs. 

There Is alfo a great fault committed 
frequently, in laying walks too round, 
and fome to that degree, that they can- 
not be walked on with that eafe and 
pleafure that ought to be. 

The common allowance for a gravel- 
walk of five feet breadth, is an inch 
rife in the crown; fo that if a walk 
be twenty feet wide, according to this 
proportion, it will be fourjnches higher 
in the middle than on each fide, and a 
walk of twenty-five feet will be five 
inches, one of thirty feet fix inches, 
and fo on. 

When a walk has been thus care- 
fully laid, trodden down, and raked, 
or rather, after every lengthier part of 
it, (which commonly is about fifteen 
feet each) then it fhould be rolled well 
both in length, and alfo crofs-ways. 
The perfon who rolls it fhould wear 
Ihoes with fiat heels, that he may not 
make holes in the walks, for when 
thefe arc once made in a new walk, it 
will not be eafy to roll them out again. 

In order to lay gravel-walks firm, it 
will be necefi'ary to give them three or 
four water-rollings, that is, rhey mull 
be rolled when it rainsfovery faft, that 
the walks fwim with water ; this will 
caufe tiie giavel to bind, fo that when 
tiie walks come to be dry, they will be 
as hard as terrace. 

Iron-mould gravel is accounted the 
belt for binding, or gravel with a Utile 
binding loam in it ; which latter, t!io' 
it be ap: :o fliclc to the hcc-k of flioes 



in wet weather, yet nothing binds btt- 
ter in dry weather. 

When the gravel is over farwly, fome 
(harp loam is frequently mixed with it, 
which, if they be cafV together in heaps, 
and well mixed, will bind like a rock ; 
whereas, loofe gravel is as uncomfort- 
able and uneafy to walk on as any o- 
ther fault in a walk can render it. 

The beft gravel for walks is fuch as 
abounds with fmooth pebbles (as is that 
dug at Blackheaih) which being mixed 
with a due proportion of loam, will . 
bind like a rock, and is never injured 
by wet or dry weather, and the peb- 
bles being fmooth, are not fo liable to 
be turned up and loofened by the feet 
in walking, as arc thofe which are an- 
gular and rough ; for where walks are 
laid with fuch gravel as is full of irre- 
gular ftones, they appear untightly in 
a day's time after rolling, becaufe the 
ftones will rife upon the furface when- 
ever tliey are walked upon, but the 
fmooth pebbles will remain handfome 
two or three days without rolling. 

Gravel-walks are net only very ne- 
ceflary near the houfe, but there fliould 
always be one carried quite round the 
garden, becaufe, being foon dry after 
rain, they are proper for walking on 
in all feafons ; but then thefe fhould 
be narrow, and thofe adjoining to the 
houfe ought to be large and magnifi- 
cent, proportionable to the grandeur 
of the houfe and garden. The prin- 
cipal of thefe walks (hould be elevated, 
and carried parallel with the houfe, fo 
as to form a terrace; this fhobid ex- 
tend itfelf each way, in propoit en to 
the width of the garden ; fo that from 
this there may be a communication 
v/ith the fide-walks, without going on 
the grafs, that there may be a dry walk 
continued quite through the gardens; 
but there is not a. more ridiculous 
figlit, than that of a ftrait gravel-walk 
leading to the front of a houfe, inter- 
fe£^ing the grafs, fo as to make it ap- 
pear like the iViff formal grafs-plats 
frequently made in little court-yards 
by perfons of low tafte. 

Grafb-waiks in gardens were for- 
merly in great efleem,and looked upon- 
as neceffaiy ornaments to a garden ; 
but of late years they havejuftly been 
banifhed by every perfon ot true tafte. 
Having given directions for the ma- 
kinz 



W A L 



V/ A L 



y\n% of gravel-walks, we come next 
to tieat ol fand-wnlkf, which are now 
v;.ryr I'rtqucntly niaoe in gardtni, as 
he;ng Ids expcnfive in die making, 
and alio in the keeping, than the for- 
mer; and in very irregular gardens, 
which aic fuch a- nioA perfons efleem, 
tlii, is a very great article; for as the 
gicattft part of the walks which are 
made in gardens are carried about in an 
irregular manner, it would be very dif- 
ficult to keep tlicm handfome if they 
v.-ere laid with gravel, cfpecially where 
ti.ey aie (haded by trees ; for the drip- 
ping of the water from thtir branches 
in hard rains, is apt to wa(h the gravel 
in holes, and render the walks very un- 
ficlitly j and when tiiefe wood-walks 
aic of gr.ifs,they do not appear fighti)', 
nor are they very proper to be walked 
on ; for after rain they continue fo 
Jong damp as to render them unfit for 
ufe, and the grafs generally grows fpiry 
and weak for want of air, and by the 
dropping of the trees, will by degrees 
be deftroyed ; therefore it is mucii bet- 
ter to lay thefe walks with fand, wliich 
will be dry and wholfome; and wl-.en- 
ever they appear mo(Ty, or any weeds 
begin to grow on them, if they are 
fcuffled over with a Dutch hoe in dry 
weather, and then raked fmooih, it 
will deitroy the weeds and mofs, and 
make the walks appear as frcfl) and 
handfcme as if they had been new hid. 

In the modern w:iy of laying out 
gaidens the walks are carried through 
woods and plantations, fo that thefe 
are fhsdy and convenient for walking 
in the middle of the day. Thtfe are 
iifually carried about, winding as much 
as the ground will admit of, fo as to 
leave a fufficient thicknefs of wood to 
make the walks private; and that the 
perfons vvlio are walking in one part of 
tliem ni.iy not be feen by thofc who 
are walking in any of the other parts. 

Where thefe walks are contrived 
withjiidgment, a fmall extent of ground 
will admit of a gieat many turns, fo 
that a perfon may walk fome miles in 
a fmall garden. But thefe turns fhould 
be made as natural a^ polTible, fo as 
ret to appear too much like a work of 
ait, vvliici) will never pleafe fo long as 
the ft finer. 

The breadth of thtfe wnlk; mufl be 
proportioned to the fize of the grcimd, 
which in a targe extent may be eight 

Y.L. II. 



or ten feet wide, but in fmall gardens 
five or fix feet will be fufticient. As 
the wslks aredefigned to wind as mucli 
as the ground will ailovv, fo this width 
will be fufticient ; becaufe the wider 
tliey arc, the greater mult be the turns, 
otherwife the walks will not be private 
for any diftance. Et-fide?, as it will 
he propc/ to line the fides of thefe 
walks with honeyfuckles, fweet-briar, 
rofcs, and m.-my other fweet-flowering 
fhrubs, fo the tall trees (hould be placed 
at leaft five oi fix feet from the walk, 
to ailow room for thefe. 

When the .ground is traced out in 
tlie manner as the walks ate defigned, 
tiK- earth (hculd be taken out of the 
walks and laid in the quarters. The 
depth of this mull be proportioned to 
the nature of the foil, for where the 
ground is dry, the walks need not be 
elevated much above the quarters, fo 
the earth Ihculd be taken out four or 
five inches deep in fuch places ; but 
where the ground is wet, the bottom 
of the walks need net be more than 
two inches below the furface, that the 
walks may be raifed fo high as to tiirovir 
off the wet into the quarters, which 
will render them more dry and healthy 
to walk on. 

After the earth is taken out to the 
intended depth, the bottom of the 
walks Ihould be laid with rubbiih, 
coarfe gravel, or whatever of the like 
nature can be moll readily procured. 
This fliould be four, five, or fix inches 
thick, and beaten down as cjofe as 
poflible, to prevent the worms from 
working through it, then the Jar.d 
fhould be laid upon this about 3 inches 
thick, and after treading it down a> 
clnfe as pofnble, it fhould be raksd 
over to level and fmooth the furface. 
In doing this, the whole Ihoiiid be laid 
a little rounding to throw cfi the wee, 
but there will be no necefTuy of cbfcrv- 
ing any exa^fnefs therein j for as the 
whole ground is to have as little appear- 
ance of ar: as pofTible, the roCinding of 
thtf; walks fliould be ^s natural, and 
only fo contrived as that the water may 
have free paffage from them. 

The fend with wliich thefe -ialks are 
laidlhould be fuch as will bind,cther- 
wilV it willbe very troublefcme to wa.k 
on them in dry weather ; fcrif the Un^ 
be of a Icofe nature, it will be rrovcd 
with ftrong gales of wind, and :n dry 

A a a weaCier 



\fr A t 



W A L 



weatlier will Aide from under th*"- feet. 
If, aCi-r thele walk^ arc laid, tliey arc 
well rolled two or three times, it will 
(eitle tliem, and caufc tliem to be firm. 
If the find is too niucli inclinable to 
loam, it will alfo be attended with as 
ill confcquence as that which is too 
loofc, for thiswill (lick to the feet after 
every rain ; fo that where fjnd can be 
obtained of a middle nature, it fhould 
always be preferred. 

In fome countries wfiere fand can- 
not be eafily procured, thefe walks 
may be laid with fea-lliells well pound- 
ed, fo as to reduce them to a powder, 
which will bind extremely well, pro- 
vided they are rolled now and then ; 
out where none of thefe can be ealily 
procured, fea-coal arties, or whatever 
elfe can be gotten, which will bind and 
be dry to t!ie feet, may be ufed for this 
purpofe ; and where any of thefe can 
only be had in fmail quantities, the 
walks (houid have a greater fhare of 
rubbifh laid in their bottom, and thefe 
fpread thinly over them ; and in moll 
places rubbifti, rough ftones, or coarfe 
gravel, may be eafily procured. 

WALLS, are abfolutely necefiary in 
gardens, for the ripening of all fuch 
fruits as are too delicate to be per- 
fefled in this country without fuch af- 
firtance. Thefe are built with different 
material; ; in fome countiies they are 
built of flone, in others with brick, ac- 
cording as the materials can be pro- 
cured bell and cheapeft. 

Of all materials proper for building 
walls for fruit-trees, brick is the befl, 
in that it is not only the handfomeff, 
but the warmed and kindeft for the ri- 
pening of fruit; befides that, it af- 
fords the befl conveniency of nailing, 
tor fmaller nails will ferve in them 
than iti (lone walls, efpecially if the 
joints are not too large; and br.ck 
walls with copings of free-ftone, and 
flone pilallers or columns at proper 
dillances, to feparate ttie trees, and 
break ofTthe force of the wind;, make 
not only the moft beautiful, but the 
tnoft durable wails. 

In fome parts of England there are 
walls built both of brick and (lone, 
which have been very commodious. 
The bricks of fome places are not of 
themfelvesfuhllantial enough lor walls, 
«or are they any where fo durable as 
ilone 5 and therefore fome pcrfoni, that 



tl.ey mi^lU havi walls both fubHantia' 
and wholefome, have built double ones, 
the outfide being of (tone and the in- 
fide brick, or j flone wall lined with 
brick ; hut when thefe are built, there 
mutl be great care taken to bind the 
bricks well into the (lone, otherwifc 
they are very apt to feparate one from 
the other, efpecially when hard frofl 
comes after much wet; which fwells 
the mortar, and frequently throws 
down the bricks, when the walls aie 
only faced with them, and not well 
tied into the (lone. 

Where the walls are built entirely 
of (lone, there (hould be trcUilfes fixed 
up againd them, for the more conve- 
nient fadening the branches of the 
tress ; the timbers of thefe efpaliers 
need not be more than an inch and a 
half thick, and about two inches and 
a h<ilf broad ; ti)efc fhould be fixed 
crofs each other, at about four inches 
diflance: for if they are at a much 
greater diltance, it will be difficult to 
taften the flioots of the trees properly. 
As this trellis will be laid clofeto the 
wall, the branches of the trees will lie 
about two inches from the wall, in 
which prfition the fiuit will ripen bet- 
ter than when it lies clofe to the wall ; 
fo that there (hould alwa)S be thefe ef- 
paliers framed againft them, whichwill 
render thefe walls very good for fruit- 
trees, which, without the efpaliers, 
feldom arc found to anfwer the pur- 
pofe of ripening the fruits weU, befides 
the inconvenience of having no good 
faflening for the branches of the trees. 
There have been fcveral trials made 
of walis built in different forms ; fome 
of them having been built femicircular, 
others in angles of various forms, and 
projefling more towards the north, to 
(kreen off the cold winds; but tliere 
has not been any method as y«-t, which 
has fucceeded near fo well, as that of 
making the walls flrait and building 
them upright. 

The faired trial Mr. Miller fays, he 
has (etn made of circular walls was at 
Good wood in Suffex, the feat of the 
Duke ofRichmond,wIiere in the middle 
of two fouth walls, there were two 
large fcgments of circles, in which 
theie were the fame forts of fruit-trees 
planted, as againfk the flrait parts of 
the walls; but there never was any 
fiuit upon the trees of the circular 

part 



W A L 



W A L 



part of the walls which came to ma- 
turity, nor were the trees of long con- 
tinuance, being Mighted every fpring, 
and in a few years were totally dc- 
llroyed ; and when fhe branches of 
thcfc treer which prev.- upon the Itrait 
part of the walls, hid extended them- 
felves fo far as to admit of their being 
led into tiie circular parts of the wails, 
they were conrtantly blighted &• killed. 

When the trees which had been 
planted in the circular parts were de- 
itroyed, the walls were filled with 
vines ; but the grapes of tiie fame fort 
were full a month later than tiicfe 
growing againit the ftrait part of 
walls; fo that they rarely lipened, 
which occafioned their being rooted 
out, and figs were aiterwards planted, 
but the fruit of thefe fucceeded little 
better; nor can it be fuppofed that 
any trees or plants will thrive fo well 
in thefe circles where there is a con- 
flant draught of air round them, which 
renders the fituation much colder than 
the open free air. 

Wall- F/ovjcr. SeeGiLLiFLOwER. 

WALLWORT. Dwarf Elder. 

WALNUT, [yuglem.] The fpe- 
cies are, i. The common walnut. 
Of the common walnut there are feve- 
ral varieties, which are diftinguifhed 
by the following titles : the large 
'Walnut, the thin-lhelled walnut, the 
French walnut, the late-ripe walnut, 
and the double walnut; but thefe do 
all of them vary when ralfed by the 
feed, fo that the nuts from the fame 
tree will produce plants whofe fruit 
will differ; there 'oe there can be no 
dependance upon the trees which are 
raifcd from nuts, till they have produ- 
ced fruit; fo that thofe perfons who 
plant the trees for their fruit, fhould 
make choice of them in the nurferies 
when they have their fruit upon them, 
otherwife they may be deceived, by 
having fuch as they would not choofe, 

2. Black Virginia Walnut. This 
grows to a large lize in North-Ame- 
rica. The leaves are compofed of five 
or fix pair of fpear-fhaped lobes, 
which end in acute points, and are 
fawed on their edges ; the lower pair 
of lobes are the leaf*, the other gradu- 
ally increafe in their fize to the top, 
where the pair at the top, and the fin- 
gls lobe which terminates the leaf, arc 
fmaller; thefe leaves, when bruifed, 



emit a Arong aromatic flavour, at do 
alfo the outer cover of the nuts, which 
are rough, and rounder than thofe of 
the common walnut. The fhell o£ 
the nut is very haid and thick, and the 
kernel fmall, but very fweet. 

3. Black Virginia Walnut, with an 
oblong fruit very dcL'ply furrowed. 
This fort grows naturally in North- 
America, where the trees grow to a 
large lize. The leaves are compofed 
of feven or eight pair of long heart- 
(haped lobes, bioad at their bafe, where 
they are divided into two round ears, 
but terminate in acute points; they 
a'e rougher and of a deeper green than 
tlv/fc of the fecond fort, and have no- 
tliing of the aromatic fcent which they 
have. The fruit is very long; the Ihell 
is deeply furrowed, and very hard ; the 
kernel is rmali, but well flavoured. 

4. While Virginia Walnut, called 
I-Iickery Nut. This is very common 
in mort parts ot North- America, where 
it is called Hickery Nut. The leaves 
are compofed of two or three pair of 
Qi'jlong lobes, terminated by an odd 
one; tiiele are of a light green, and 
fawed on their edges ; the lower pair 
of lobes are thefmalleil, and tie upper 
the largefi. The fruit is fhaped like 
the common walnut; but the (hell is 
not furrowed, and is of a light colour, 

5. White Walnur, with a fmaller 
fruit, and a fmooth bark. This fort is 
not fo large as the laft. The leaves 
are compofed of two pair of lobes, 
terminated by an odd one ; thefe are 
narrow at their bafe, but broad and 
rounded at their ends; they are fawed 
on their edges, and are of a light green. 
The nuts are fmall, have a fmooth 
fhell. and are very hard and white. 

6. Wiiite Walnur, with an oval com- 
preffed fruit, a fweet kernel, and a fcaly 
bark, commonly called Shag-bark in 
America. This kind grows naturally 
in North-America, where it rifes to a 
middling feature. The leaves are com- 
pofed of three pair of fmooth fpear- 
fhaped lobes, of a dark green colour, 
fawed on their edges, and ending in 
acute points. The fruit is oval, the 
(hell white, hard, and fmooth, the 
kernel fmall, but very fweet. The 
young fhoots are covered with a very 
fmootii brownifh bark, but the liems 
and older branches have a rough fcaly 
bark, whence it is called (hag-bark. 

Aaa 3 The 



W A L 

The walnut, in the LinnseaH fyiiem, 
belongs to llie clafs and order Monoma 
Pclyandr'tj. The flowers begin tooj)en 
about tl'.e middle of April, and are in 
full blow by the middle of May, befoie 
which time the leaveii ^re fully dK- 
played. 

rhefc trees are propagated by plant- 
ing tlieir nuts, which fcldom produce 
the fame fort oi fruit as fown ; !o that 
tlic only way to have the dei'ircd I'ou 
iS to fow the nuts of the befl kinds; 
and if thi> is doDe in a nurfciy, the 
trees fliould be trani'plant.'d out uhen 
they have had tl;iee ci four years 
jjrovvtli, to the place svhcre they ars 
dTiigned to remain j for tijcfe ticts do 
not bear trani'plantir.g when they are 
of a large fize, thercfcie there fhouJd he 
a good number uf tieti planted, v.l.ich 
need not be put at more than fix feet 
apart, whicli will be dii^ance enough 
ior tliem to grow till they produce 
jruitj when thole, wl;ofe fruit are of 
the dctired kind, may lem-iin, and the 
others cut up, to allow them room to 
grow. 

But as many people do not care to 
wait fo long for thefi'uit, the next bc(f 
'-rnethod is to mal<s choice of fome 
^oung trees in the nurfeiies, when 
they have tliCiT fruit upon them. Rut 
though thefc trees will grow and bear 
tVuit, yet they will never be fo large 
or long-lived, as thofe which are 
planted young. 

All the forts of walnut wlijch are in- 
tended for timber, flioiild be fown in 
the places where tliey are to remain ; 
lor the root^ of thefe trees always in- 
cline downward, whicli being lloppcd 
or broken, prevent tlicir afpiring up- 
ward, fo that they aftervvaids divaii- 
cate into branches, and become low 
fpreading trees; but fuch asaie pio- 
pagated for fruit, are greatly mended 
by tranfplar.ting; for hereby they are 
rtndered more liuitful, and their fruit 
is generally larger and falrei ; it being 
a common obfcrvation, thatdownriglit 
roots greatly encourage tlie luxuriant 
(growth of timber in all forts of trees ; 
but fuch trees as have their roots fpread- 
ing near the furfacc of the ground, al- 
ways produce ilie gieatelt quantity and 
Left -flavoured fruit. 

In tranfplanting thefe trees, ycu 
/hould obfervc never to prune either 
i,ielf roots or large branches, bojh 



W A L 

wiiich operations are very injurious t* 
them; nor fhould you be too bufy ii) 
loppingcr pruning tl'.c branches of I htfe 
trees when grown to a Jaige fize, for 
it often caufes them to decay; but 
when there is a recclfity for cutting 
any of their branchti eft, it fhould he 
done early in September, (for at tiiat 
feafon the trees aic not fo fubjcft IQ 
bleed; that the wound may h.tal over 
before the cold incrcafes; the branches 
fliOuid always be cut oft' quite clofe to 
tlie trunk, otherwifethc Hump which 
\i left will de.cay, and ret the body of 
tlie tiee. 

The heft fcafon for tranfplanting 
thefe trees is as foon as the leaves begin 
to decay, at which time if they arc 
carefully taken up. and their branches 
prcfeived entire, there will be little 
(jangcr of their futceeding. 

The dili.jnce thefe trees fhould be 
placed, ought not to be Icfs than forty 
feer, cfpecially if regard be had to their 
fruit; though when they are only dc- 
fgned for limber, if they fland nearer, 
ir promotes thtir upright • growth. 
The bl3c'< Vi'ginia walnut is much 
more inclinable to grow upright thaif> 
the common fort, and the wood is ge- 
nerally of a more beautiful grain. 

WANG-TOOTH, a jav» tooth. 

WANT, a mole. See Mo i.e. 

WANTY, a broad girth of leather, 
by which the load is bound upon a 
horfe. 

WAPENTAKE, the fame with 
what is called a hundred, and is the 
term generally ufed in the northern 
counties hey<^nd the Trent. * 

WARBLES, fmall 1 ard tumours on ♦ ^ 
t ;e faddle part of a horfe s back, oc- v'//^ 
cjfioned by the heat of the faddle in /l-j^/; 
travelling, or its une.ify fituation. " 

A hot greafy difli- clout, at firft fre- 
quently applied, will fonirtimes re- 
move them. Camphorated fpirits of 
wine are alfo very effeftual for this 
purpofe to difpetfe them, efpecially if 
a little fpirit offal ammoniac be added 
to tlie camphorated fpirit. If there be 
a necefiity for working the horfe, care 
fliould be taken to have the faddle 
nicely chambeied. 

W.-VRREN, a franchifc, or place 
privileged, cither by prefcription or 
grant from the king, to keep bealts and 
fowl of warren in ; as rabbits, hares, 
partridges, &c, 

WARP, 



W A T 



W H E ■ 



WARP, mifcarry, flink her calf. 

WARTWORT. Euphorbium. 

Waste, a name given to fuch 
lands 8^ aie in no in^n's poircinon, 
but lie common. 

WATER, is one of the moll conn, 
derahic requifitts belonging to a gar- 
den ; if a garden be wit'iout it, it 
brings a certain mortality jpon wtiat- 
fcever is planted. 3y \va;erir.gs the 
f reat droughts in fimimer are allayed, 
which would jniallibiy burn up molt 
plants; beiides as to noble fents, the 
beauty that water will add, in iiial;- 
inj: caicades. ./^Ic a /l^e> ur//^ — 



our difpenfatory contains about one- 
fifth of the dry root. 

Wmit Gekmandir. See Water 

G E R M .\ K D E R . 

^'j/fr Hemp Ac.iiMON V. SeeW-^- 
tcr Agrimony. 

U'attr HoKEHOUND. Scc Wjter 
HoKEHOUND. 

Wsar L I L V . See Water L ii, v . 

W.-.ter V .\vi.iiit.v. SUirret. 

Wuter VfLvvzv.. Biting Arfmart. 

WATILI-:. A kind of hurdle for- 
med with fplit wood, and ufed for 
making folds for Hieep. 

WAX, or BEES -WAX. A fnb- 



Watcr not only a£ls as a vehicle to fiance formed by bees from the farina 

the nourilhment of planis, but carries of flowers. See Bek. 
with it many particles whicli enrich WAY-BREAD. Plantain, 
the foil; efpeci-illy after heavy rains, WAYFARJNG-TREE. iLibiuum!] 

It then depofjrs a feitillfing fediment, This tree grows naturally in many 

whic^» turns the mould to a blackifh pa;ts of Europe and America, and is 



colour. VVaterin< iikcwife promotes 
the putrefadion of every vegetable and 
anirr..il fubltance found in the earth, 
and thereby contributes greatly to me- 
liorate the foil underneath the fward. 



either propagated from feeds or layers. 
WE AN EL. An animal newly 
weaned. .Z^.-i Cn ^/i-- S^".!.'' ^ 
WEI.D. Dyer's Weed. SeeWoAD. 
WEED. Any plant growing in a 
Plants which grovi' on dry pailures field different from what the farmer 
contain richer and more nouriftiing intended. 

juices, than thofe which grow in moift WHEAT. [Trittcum.'] The forts of 
places. Care ihould therefore be la- wheat cultivated in England now, and 
ken, that the quantity of moiHure to anfvirer all purpofes, are known to ,, -■> -. 
brought upon the pafture, be only fuch the farmer under the names of red *^'^^ -^ Ti 7 
as (hall give vigour to the plants, with- wheat, white wheat, and cone wheat ; » "^^ ^' '^ 
out over-charging their vtlTels. there are abundance of varieties, hut /^n ^C .f/ 

Extreme heat fhould alfo be avoided when every thing is confideied, thefe -^ 

in watering; becaufe heat draws the a;e enough, and diftindion enough to -'^ 

inoiiture too haflily up into the plant, make. We cannot with the greateft 
which is thereby filled with a wati-ry psecifion, perhaps, point out where 
juice, and rendered of fo tender a tex- each is particularly cultivated; but the 
lure, as enfiiy to be killed afterwards red is much found in Bedfordfhire, 
by drought or cold. the white about Taunton, in Somer- 

Water Calami NT. Horfemint. fetfhire, and the country^ about London 

Water-cress. See //'T.vr-Crefs. and the cone in Staffordfhire, Here- 

fordfliire, Sec. 

Whatever diftinctions might have 
been made of each grain to different 
forts of land, we believe that each will 
grow on each, not that cone wheat is 
plant grows common by tlie brinks of fo well adapted to light land as wliite * /•*'»'V//i 
rivers and in other watery places. The wheat, or .lo v, hitc whejt is to flront - . ' ' 
root ha: a very acrid taf»e, and proves l.ni. ^^e^ CT//^ /S//^/f/ .loO ////>/// a 
when frefli a flrong cathartic : its ex- It h.u been very JLftly cbferved by ^ 

prtfTcd juice, given to the quantity of ancients, as well as niod'.rns, that 
eighty drops every hour oi two, and wli^at will grow in almolt any part of 
oecafionally increafcd, has occafioned the world, and tliat, as it is the plant 
a plentiful evacuation, after jalap, mofl neceffjry to m.inkind, fc it is the 
gamboge, &c. had proved intfTedlual. moft general, and the mort fruitful. 
By drying, it lofes its acrimony and It thrive^ not only in te.nperate cli- 
purgative virtue. The puh'n art of mates, but alfo in very hot and very 

cold 



Water Drop wort. See Water 
Drop WORT. 

Water FIac. [Gladlolui Lutcus.] 
Yellow water-flag, Iris, baf^ard aco- 
rus, or water flower- de-luce. This 



Jttnr// -7/// ' 



J ^/f7 //// '/ ^/t.^/t/^ _ JC^ ^%/i^?^/_ 



N. N^ 
^1^ 

N 






w yi E 

txld rcprons ; and, when fown In pla- 
ces where it never grew fpontaneoufly, 
fijcceeds as well as where it has been 
always common. The fuccefs of the 
crops of wheat in America plainly 
prove this: and, in Teru and Chili in 
particular, where this grain was not 
known till the Europeans introduced 
it there, it noA' produces as large crops 
^ in moft parti of Europe. 

Wheat fliould be fowed in autumn, 
and always when the ground is moiit. 
In the downs of Hamplhire, Wiltftiire, 
and Dorfetfhire, farmers begin to Tow 
their wheat in Augu(\, if any rain has 
tallen; and even employ their people 
to fow one place, while they reap ano- 
ther, rf wet weather interrupts them 
in the harveft; for if the corn be nut 
forward in autumn, fo as to cover the 
ground before winter, it feldom does 
well on thofe high dry lands, efpecially 
if tlw enfuing fpring proves likewife 
dry. In low ftrcng lands, fome huf- 
l^andir.en think they are in good feafon, 
if they get their wheat into the ground 
by the middleof November ; nay, it is 
fometimes Chriilmas, or even later, 
befoie all their wheat is fown. But 
tiiislate fown wheat, befides being apt 
to run too much to ftraw, efpecially 
if thefpring be mcift, is liable to be 
rhtown out of the ground by frofts. 

Some gentlemen have been curious 
enough to procure their feed wheat from 
Sicily, and It has fucceeded very well 
jti to the growth; but tlie grain of this 
fpectes has provcl too hard for our 
iBglifh mills to grind. 

The befl time for fowing wlieat is 
about the beginning of September, 
efpecially if any rain has fal!«n :, a cir- 
cumdance fo eirentia), that i( the earth 
be very dry, the fa-r:ier had better ftay 
till friendly fhowers have moift.ned 1 is 
foil, tlian put liis Corn in ground 
v/here it will not grow before it has 
been wet, let the time be ever fo lonp. 
Mr. Mortimer fays, he has known 
wheat to be fo mut^ied and fnoiled by 
laying Jong in the ground before rain 
has come, t':-!3t it has never grown at 
all; to wS:::) he adds, that he has 
likewife feen very good crops grow 
from feed fown in July. At al! events, 
t!>s hufbandman inould certainly have 
his wheat fowins; linii'hsd by the mid- 
dle of O-^ober. Whoever nfg'.ecls this, 
3it7i's In io doing a wan: cf pror-sr 



\V H E 

Tconomy in his affairs, and will have 
caufe to repent his delay. 

Early fowings require lefs feed than 
late ones, becaufe the plants then rife 
belter, and acquire ftrength to refift 
t'«. winter's cold. More feed fnould 
always be allowed for poor lands than 
for rich, becaufe a greater number of 
plants will perifh on the former. Rich 
lands, fowed early, require the leaft 
feed of ^ny. 

Another circumftance which the 
hufbandman fh.^uld carefully attend to 
in fowing is, that his eftimaie of feed 
be formed, not from the capacity of 
any particular meafure, but from the 
number of grains which that meafure 
will contain; becaufe tl:e grains of 
fome growths of vi'heat are much lar- 
ger than thofe from ofT other lands, 
though of the fame fpecies, and perhaps 
equally good. By not confidering this, 
the ground will of eoorfe frequently be 
fown too thick, or too thin ; though 
we believe, farmers aie feldom apt to 
run into this laU extreme. That they 
too often commit the former error, fo 
manifeftly contrary to their interelt in 
every refpecl', is demonstrated by rea- 
fon, and by daily experience: — but 
neither of thefe is fufticient to make 
them deviate from the beateo track. 
Indead of the ufual allowance of three 
bufhels of feed wheat to an acre of 
land, repeated trials have (hewn that 
half or two-thirds of that quantity is 
generally more than fufiicicnt ; confe- 
quently a great deal of corn is aftually 
tiirown away; for the txpence of pup- 
chafing foed, which moft (l<ilful huf- 
bandmen generally do, at leafl every 
other year, amounts to a confidcrable 
article in large farms, and in a whole 
country, merits the attention of the 
public, efpecially in fcarce years ; be- 
f) Its which, the future plants, crowded 
together by being thus fown too thick, 
and not having a fufficient fpace al- 
lowed them for a fuftenance, cannot 
yit^ld near fo tine and plentiful a crop 
as they would oiherwife produce. A 
fair trial, made with proper care, 
would foon convince farmers of their 
error in this refpeft ; for if they but 
examine a field of corn fown in the 
cr)mmon way. they will find few plants 
with more than '.wo or three ftalks, 
unlefs by chance, where fome of them 
f\a'-,ci fo K to 'lave roo/n to fpread. 
Thefe 



.^. 



V. 



^o.^T./i/^rrt /i*Ac-.' - 



? U-*^<'' 



\v n I 



w il I 



Ttiefe will have lix, eight, or ten 
flalks, and frequtnily many more; hut 
a field of wheat fown with only a bu- 
fhel of corn, has been known to be 
well covered with healthy vigorous 
plants, each of which has had from fix 
to founeen or more HrtJks, crowned 
with long weli-nourifhed ears, full of 
line plump grain, of which it his 
yielded a much greater quantity tiian 
any of the neighbouring grounds, fown 
with the common allowance. If the 
land be good, and the plants itand at 
a proper dil\ance from each other, few 
of them will produce lefs than the 
above number of llaJks and ears. But 
farmers think they rnallliave no crops 
if the ground be not covered with the 
blades of corn by the fpring: whereas 
if they would have patience to vi-ait 
till the plants put out ail their Aems, 
they would be amply convinced of the 
contrary. Every onemufl have obfer- 
ved, in places where foot-paths are 
made through corn fields^tTiat^ by the 
fides of thofe paths, where the corn is 
'- thin, and has been trodden down in 
^ winter and fpring, the plants have 
' ,') flood ereifl, when mofl of the corn in 
the fame field has been laid fiat upon 
the ground J and advantage which can 
arife from no otiier caufe, than that 
their ftalkb are flronger from tlieir ha- 
ving more room : for thofe of the 
other plants are drawn up tali and 
llender, by being too clofe together. 
Cc^u Wheat. See Cow Whfat. 
A . InJianV/nt AT .SeeG VIS z A IVheat. 
'/J/,^ WH EE or W ,. n Y . A heifer. 



trf~ 



.r/u 



Service tree. 



WHICKEN TREE, 
WHINS. Furze. 
VHISKET. A baflcet. 
i^?- WHITE- CLOVER. A well known 
' Hi plant, and reckoned the fweeteft feed 
"^ & of any of the fown graffes ; and it is 
^ ''-J of moft advantage to the farmer, be- 
^ caufe it ia perennial, or lafts a great 
^ ^ number of years on the land. 

This plant fends forth roots at every 

' ^f^^"'"'' ^° '''^' '' t'l'ckens, and foon 

V^ makes a thick fward. When land is 

^^'^ to be laid down for paflure, the far- 

^' mer will reap great profit, if, with 

W^ about four builiels of clean-ilfted hay- 

. ^ Teed to an acre, he fows eight pounds 

\%^ot' till'? clover, but it i ^ to be remarked, 



ft^ th'it it is never to be fown with corn. 

^^»^ It may lie lown either in fpring or 

■^ f^ iufiimn: if in fpring, it may be ci't 



S^ 



about the latter end of July •,;f Tow.i 
in auimun; the crop will be much ear- 
lier. As foon a-; ever the hay is off 
the land, it fhould be rolled with a 
heavy roller. In laying down land 
with thtlc grafi'e-, it will be proper for 
the farmer to be very caiciul that lie 
cleans the land of all forts of weeds; 
and the hay-feeds are to be fown firiL . 
immediately after which the clover is 
to be regularly fcattered. After fow- 
ing, the land fhould be lightly har- 
rowed, with a fliort tined harrow, to 
bury the feed ; and a few days after- 
if t!>e v/eathtr be dry, it ihould be rol- 
led, to break the clods, ajiH clofe ir. 

It will be good hufbandry, if, after 
the plants ar-e come up, the farmer 
fhould fend in fome we^-ders, to puJj 
up all the tall rampant weeds which 
might injure the crop, for, if they are 
fufFered to feed, they will fooii flock 
the land. 

It will be proper to take the advan- 
tage of dry weather, and roll the land 
three or four times, after the plants 
have attained fomefize; for the clo- 
ver taking root at every joint, the 
fward wril thereby be greatly thicken'd. 
If a farmer knows his own inte-ell, 
he will fow fome of this white clover- 
feed by itfelf, in order tofupply him- 
felf with what feed he may want, for 
it is fometimes very dear. The beft 
feafon for fowing is autumn, upon 
dry lands, about thebeginning or mid- 
dle of September; but in open, cold 
lands, much expofed, a month fooner 
is iietter : all the caution required in 
this autumnal fowing is to let the land 
be "very well rolled in the month of 
0(flober, before the frofls come or, 
and again in MKrch, 

WHITE-SCORE. A difeafe with 
which fheep are too often affefled and 
by which great numbers of them die. 
The following medicine has been 
often given with fuccefs, provided the 
fheep are at the fan.e time removed in- 
to a dry paflure. 

Take a pint of old verjuice, half a 
pound cf common or bay fait, 
dried well before the fire, pound- 
ed, and fifted through a fieve. 
TiiCn mix the verjuice with tl.e 
fait by degrees; and add half a 
pint of rommor. gin, and bottle 
it up for ufe. Whan any of your 
fJ^^-p are iVized with this diforder,- 
feparate 



:^ 



^/f^/fC/t _ 



; cy- y i 



.^^ 



IV I N 



W O A 



icparate them from the flo^k, and 
jjive each of them three iarge ta- 
ble fpoonfuls of the mixture for 
a dole, repeatinjc it two days after 
if they are not better. 

■WHITE-LANDS. Clialky lands. 

WILDS. A term u fed by &ur f.ir- 
mers to exprcfs that pait of a plough 
by which the whole is drawn forward. 

WILDERNESS. A kind of grove 
of lar^e trees, in a fpacious garden, 
in which the walks are made either to 
interfcft each otiier in anglef, or have 
'he appearance of meanders and la- 
byrinths. 

WHORTLEBERRY. Bilberry. 

WIDOWWAIL. [Cntorum.] This 
ii a low evergreen fhrub, and might 
form an agreeable variety in wilder- 
nefles, &:c. It is eafily propagated by 
fcatt'jrin^ the feeds. 

WILLOW. SeeS.ALLOw. 

Dutch or Siveet Willow. Candle- 
terry-tree. 

FrcrxbV^ iLLOw. S ec F re n c h IFilioiu , 

Sxjict William. See Carnation. 

V.'INDFLOWER. SeeAN£MONE. 

To WINNOW. To clear corn of 
the chaff. I •" r i-tf .j//i'^. 

WITHERS. The pan of a horfe 
where the ftioulder-bones join at the 
boctom of the neck and mane. 

WITHWIND, Bindweed. 
n////'^ WINTER A^mV^. Hellebore. 

J ^ W IS TZR Cherry, See (t^iTttL-r Cherry, 
\/ 'if (if J- WisTKR Creer.. See fFirter Green, 
^' WiNTKR Crefi. Water-Crefs. 

WINTER'S BARK. {C-.rUx IVinte- 
ranu!.] The produce of a tree growing 
ID Jamaica, 2arbadoes, &c. called by 
Sir Hans Sloane periclymenum recium, 
Foliis laurir.is, corthe acri anmat'ico. Ic 
was firft difcovered on the coafi; of Ma- 
gellan, by Captain Winter, in the year 
1567; the failors then employed the 
bark as a fpice, and afterwards found 
it ferviceable in the fcurvy ; for which 
purpofe it is at piefent alfo fometimes 
made ufeof in diet-drinks. The true 
winter's bark is not often met with in 
the fliops, canella alba being generally 
fubflituted lor it, and by many reckoned 
to be the fame; there is, ne%ertheiefs, 
a confidcrablc difi'trence betwixt ti.em 
in appearance, and a greater in qua- 
lity ; the winter's bark is in larger pie- 
ces, of a more cinnamon-colour than 
the canella ; and talles much ivariuer 
and nnorc pungent. 



WITCH HAZLL, [Wj«j».y.Vi.J 
This plant grows naturally in Noith- 
America, from whence the feeds have 
been biought to Europe, and many of 
the plants have been raifed in the Lrlg- 
lilh gardens, \vhcre they are propagated 
tor fale by the nurfery gardeners. It 
liath a woody lUm from tv^o to three 
feet high, fending cut many flcndcr 
branches, garnillied with oval leaves, 
indented on their edges, having great 
refemblance to thofe of the hazel j 
they lall away in autumn, and when 
the plants are delUtute of leaves, the 
flowers come out in clufters from the 
joints of the bianches; thefc fome- 
times appear the latter end of Oiflobtr, 
and often not till December, but arc 
not fucceeded by feeds in this country. 

As the flowers of this (hrub make 
very little appearance, fo it is only 
preferved in the gardens of the cut ious, 
for the fake of variety. 

It is propagated by laying down the 
young branches in autumn, which 
will take root in one year, and may 
tl'.en be taken from the old plants, and 
planted where they are to remain. The 
feeds of this plant always remain a 
whole year Jn the ground, fo tliey 
fhould be fcwn in pots. 

WOAD. Weld, or Dyer's Weed. 
TheEnglifh plant, called by botanifls 
Ijjti; fali'va, i:ci latlfoHj. 

A light, black, kindly, and rich foil, 
or a meadow newly broken up, is cho- 
fen for the cultivation of Woad ; but 
it murt not by any mears be fown en 
flony or ihaliow land. It thrives well 
in plains, but ftill better on the Ibuth 
fide of a hill; the elTentla! point is, 
that the foil be good, and that it have 
the above-mentioned qualities. 

Though the land wliich is intended 
for Woad be never fo good, it mufl be 
duneed a year before it is fown with 
this plant, and be made lirl\ to bear a 
crop of wTieat, 01 of onions, &c. After 
tlicie are taken cff, three deep ftirrings 
iTiould be given with the plough, or, 
which is much better, with the fpade : 
the firff Airring fhould be in Novem- 
ber, and the other two in February, 
March, or April. If the land wliich is 
intended for woad lies riat, and has not 
llopeenou'^li to carry oflthe wet, chan- 
nels muft be cut of a greater or Itis 
ii/e, according as the grgund is more 
or lels oiipofcd :c retain the water. 

In 



W O A 



W O L 



In warm climates, Woad is fown 
fo early as the beginning of Api il, un- 
lef* the weather chance then to be tco 
cold, in which cafe this fowir? is de- 
ferred till the heginning of May; hut 
for countries likr ourx, where thejrpring 
is attended with trofts, particularly in 
the night, Mr. Miller is certainly right 
in adviling to lay the land up in nar- 
row iii^'i ridges juil before wint:r, 
t;i.u the fort may melio.v it; to crofs 
pj.>iigh it in the fcring, laying it again 
ill narrow rirfges, and between this 
timi and the enfuinc mon'.h of June 
'. idirow ic well t'A.ce jt different in- 
'-, ill order to root up whatever 
may have appeared ; then, in 
June, to give the ground a third 
ploughing ai deep as the pio'ifh will 
go, making the furrows narro^vj after 
this, to harrow it again whe;-! any new 
weeds are come up ; and finally, to- 
waids the end of July, or the beginning 
of Auguf>, to plough it for the lift 
time, liying it as fmooth as pofTible 
A good harrowing after this will fit it 
completely to receive the feeds, which 
if rain fails foon after their being 
fown, or if they are flceped in water 
during the night before their fowing, 
as Mr. Miller arivifes, will appear in 
a fortnight, if the fcafon be lavoura- 
ble. They fhould be but ligiuly co- 
vered, and fhould be fowed fo thin as 
that the plants may ftand fix inches a- 
fundi.'r. Seme (t:esv pigeons Hung en 
the land jurt after having fown it with 
Woad, and the plants become much 
the finer for this manure. 

When the Woad is grown lar^e e- 
nough to be dillinguiftied, it fhould 
be carefully cleared of all weede, for 
thtfe would hurt it ereatly ; and at the 
fame time the plants ihould be thinned 
wherever they (land too clofe : with- 
out this precaution, the Woad would 
produce but very few leaves, and 
would remain extremely Ainted in its 
growth. 

Woad generally affords two crops 
in the fame year, and fometimes, when 
the feafon has been tavourable, it has 
yielded even four. The two tirlt are 
the bell, and t'lefe are commonly 
mixed together in the manufad>uring 
of this plant; but the aftercrops are 
always kept feparate ; for if ti.efe are 
mixed with the other, the whole will 
be fpoiled. 
Vol. II. 



The hrft crop fhould be gathered to- 
wards the end of Auguft, and the laft 
at the end of Oftober, or in the be- 
ginning of November: but this laft 
crop mufl be got in before the firft 
fro/Is come on; for the leaves that 
miglit be gathered afterwards would 
not be worth any thing. When the 
plant is ripe, which is known by its 
firU leaves beginning to dry, all the 
leaves are cut off by a man who grafps 
the plant by handful-., and they are 
then laid in a heap to wither. Whiift 
they are in this fituation, they mufl be 
fhelttrtrd from the fun and rain, and 
they muff be frequently turned, in or- 
der that they may heat equally : they 
aie then carried to a mill fomcwhat 
like that which is ufed for prelTing the 
oil out of linfeed, and are there ground 
till they are reduced into a parts, 
which is afterwards formed inri) cakes 
of about a pound weight, and tliefe 
are laid todry in a covered place where 
neither the fun nor rain can come ac 
them. This paffe is d:ied thus for a- 
bout a fortnight, that is to fay till it 
has acquired confif^ence enough to be 
formed into fmall roundifh lump?, by 
means of little wooden moulds into 
which it is put for that purpofe. As 
fail as thefe lumps are taken out of the 
moulds, they are laid upon wicker hur- 
dles loofely woven, fo as not to touch 
one another, and in fuch manner that 
the air may come at every part of 
them, as is praftifed in the drying of 
rtarch. Thefe lumps become very 
hard, and in this condition it is that 
they are fold. When they are to be 
ufcd, they mud be fleeped a long 
while in water before ilicy can b$ 
broken. 

The Woad thus prepared yields an 
excellent bJue_dye, very lading, and 
wUh which all the degrees of this co- 
lour may be made. It is not long 
fjnce this plant was preferred to indi- 
go ^ afterwards, through a kind of to- 
leration, the dyers were allowed to 
put a fmall quantity of indigo into 
tlieir vats of Woad; but now, that 
the making and manner of uf;ng in- 
digo have been greatly improved, it is 
looked upon as a matter of indifference 
whether that or Woad be ufed for dy- 
ing hjue. 

WOLFSBANE, [>^^cmr«/»».] The 
plants, of which there are Icvcia 
F bb 



w o o 



W O R 



cics, grow naturally on ttic Alps, and 
on the mountains of AuOiia and Tar- 
tary. Mo(\ if not all are liurtlul in a 
greater or lefs dejjree, focsrc rtiould be 
taken where they are planted. 

WhoUJome VVo l K ! a a N e , [^Arthora.^ 
This plant may be dillingtiiflied fioin 
the poifonrus aconites by its leaves 
being more finely divided, and not at 
all bright or fliining : it grows wild on 
the Alps. The root has been fuppofcd 
ufefulagainft poifons, particulaily that 
ef the //icr^z, (whence its name.) Some 
neverthelefs look upon this pretended 
antidote itfelf as unfafe. 

WOOD. A large plantation of trees. 

Woodcock Sod, Ground wiiofe 
foil under the turf is of t!.e colour of a 
woodcock, and is not good. 

Woodland. Ground covered with 
woods. It is alio a term ufed by the 
farmers of many counties in England, 
for a fort of foil, from its conllant.liu- 
niidity and dark colour, rcfembling the 
foil in woods, which, of whatever na- 
ture it oiiginally is, will always be 
made to appear ihus fiom the conti- 
nual dropping of trees, and the want of 
a free air and fun, together with liie 
fall of leaves, deflroyed and wartied lo 
pieces by the wet. 

Woody. Abounding with wood. 

Woodbine. See Hon f.vsuckle. 

WoODRoor. Petty Madder. 

Wood-Sage. Tree Germander. 

Wood-Sorrel. See Wood 5on-ir/. 

WOOL. The covering of flieep. 
Each ficece confifls of wool of fevetal 
qualities and degrees of finenefs, which 
the dealers therein take care lu fejja- 
rate. 

The Englifh and French ufually fe- 
parate each lieece into three principal 
forts, viz, I. Mother-wool, which is 
that of the back and neck. 2. The 
wool of the tails and legs. 3. Tiiat 
of the breaft and un-.ler the belly. 
The Englilh wool moll erteemed is, 
chiefly that about Leominl>;;r, Coltf- 
woid, atid the Ifle of Wight ; the 
Spanifh, principally that about Vego- 
via J and the French, about Berry. 

Bothvi-ccl, and woollen rags, make 
an excellent manure. Ihe rags fhould 
he chopped fmall, about an inch or 
two fqu.-«re, and fcattered on the earth 
at the- fecond i>loughing ; for being 
thereby covered, t!;ey will begin to lot 
by feed-tune. They imbibe tJie nioif- 






ture of dews and rain, retain it long, 
and, as Dr. Home obfervcr, thereby 
keep loofe foils in a nioift ftate. They 
colt about four-pence a bufliel at Lon- 
don, fiom whence many loads aie fent 
every year to Dunflablc (which is 30 
niiltb) v^ here they are \?i\A even on ftiff 
landb, juft after the fowing of the corn, 
allowing to the acre four facks of fix 
bufJiels each. ^^ 

WORMS, are very prejudicial to *■ *^ 
corn fields, eating up the toots of the^yy^^_ 
young corn, and dcitroying gieat quan- 
tities of the crop. Sea-falt is the beft 
of all things lor deflroying them. Sea 
water is proper to fj)i inkle on the land 
where it can be had ; v\here the falt- 
fpiings are, their vi-ater will ferve, and 
weie n-jhher are at hand, a little com- 
mon or bay-falt does as w ell. Soot will 
deflroy them i.i fome lands, but is not 
to be depended upon, for it does not 
always fuccted. Some farmers ftrew 
on their lands a mixture of chalk and 
lime ; and others truft wholly to their 
winter- fallowing to do it, if tliis is 
done in a wet feafon, when they come 
up to the furface of the ground, and 
fome nails with fharp heads be driven 
into the bottom of the plough. If they 
are trouineTome in gardens, the refufe 
brine of falttd meat will ferve the pur- 
pofe, or fome walnut leaves iteeped in 
a cirtern of water for a fortnight or 
three weeks, will give it fuch a birter- 
nefs that it will be a certain poifon to 
them. A deco(flJon of wocd-arties, 
fpiinkled on the ground, will anfwer 
the fame purpofe; and any particular 
plant may be fccured both Irom worms 
and fiiails by Ifrewing a mixture of 
lime and alhes about its root?. It is a 
general caution among the farmers to /^j) 
fow iheir corn as (hallow ,-.3 they can, /CJl^/r 
where the field is" very fuhjeft to ^^^^ 
worm^. ylv /l^^*at/^e-/^ fi^Tuit , 

WORMW'OOD, l/Ib;ftnih:um n-uK 
ga>c.'\ CCmmon wormwood. The 
leaves of this fort of wormwood are 
divided into roundiJh fegments, of a 
dull green colour above, and whitifli 
underneath. It grows wild in feveral 
parts of England ; about London, lar^e 
quantities are cultivated for medicinal 
ufe: it flowers in June and July, and 
after having ripened its feeds, dies 
down to the ground, excepting a tuft 
of the lower leaves, vi'hich generally 
abides the winter. 

5fj 



v/iac- 



W O R 



\v o u 



5« Wormwood. The leaves of 
fea wormwood are much fmaller than 
thofe of the common, and hoary on 
the upp«r lide as well as the Iffwer; 
the ftalks alfo are hoary all over. It 
grows wild about our Tilt marlhes, 
and in feveral parts about the fta coafts. 
In lafte and fmell, it is weaker and lefi 
unpleafant th»n the common worm- 
wood. The virtues ot Ijoth are fup- 
pofed to fee of the fame kind, and differ 
only in degree. 

Bfl.wan WoR MwooD. This fpecies 
is very different in appearance from the 
two foregoing: it is in all its parts 



fmnller than either ; the-leaves are di- 
vided into fine filaments, and hoary on 
the lower fide 5 the ftaiks, either en- 
tirely or in part, of a porplifh hue. It 
is a native cf the warmer countritt, 
and at prefcnt difficoltiy procurable in 
this, though as hardy and as eafily 
raifed as any of the othet" forts. 

Roman v;ormwood appears to be the 
moft eligible of the three as a ftoma- 
chic ; and is likewife recommended by 
fome in dropfics. 

WOUNDWORT. Golden Rod. 

Woundwort of Achilla. iVlilfoil. 



///t^J D/^Sa.^^ 



^// 



Y. 



Y E W 



r/. Cfe.a^k Jet. O^ /i?//i 
YEW 



YARD-LAND. A quantity of land, 
in fomc countries fifteen acres, in 
fome twenty, and in others twenty- 
four, thirty, and thirty-four acres. 

YARROW. Milfoil. 

Jfj.vr Yar ROW. This plant grows 
naturally in {landing waters in many 
parts of England J the Jea/es which 
are for the moll part immcrfed in the 
water, are finely winged and flat, like 
moft of the fea plants, and at the bo:- 
tom have long fibrous roots, which 
fltike into the mud : the flower-fta'ks 
rife five or fix inches above the water ; 
fhey are naked, and toward the top 
have two or three whoris of pmple 
flowers, terminated by a fmall ciuitcr 
of the fame. Thef; flowers have the 
appearance of thofe of the flock-sjilli- 
flower, fo make a pretiy appearance on 
the fui face of the water. 

YELLOVVS. See Jaundice. 

YEW. [TVxai.] This tree grows 
naturally in England, and alfo in moll 
of the Northern Countiei of Europe, 
and in North- America. If fu ffcrrd 
to grow, it will rife to a good lui^ht, 
with a very large (teni. Jt naturally 
fends out branches on every fide, 
which fpread fKji, and are aluioll ho- 
rizontal ; tlieic 4rc clufely g4ini/hed 



with narrow, ftiflf, blunted pointed 
leaves, of a very dark green. The 
flowers come out from the fide of the 
branches in clui'iers \ the male flowers 
having many Itamina, are more con- 
fpicuous than the female j thefe for 
the molt part are upon different trees, 
but fometimes are ujwn the fame tree \ 
tiiey appear the latter end of May, 
and t!.e berries ripen in autumn. 

The Yew tree has been generally 
cultivated for the pleafure-ga.-den, 
both to clip into the figures of beads, 
birds, tiZ. and alfo for hedges. Who- 
ever is pleafcd with fuch figures in his 
garden, can raife no tree more proper 
for his purpofe, as the branches and 
leaves may be clipped and falhioned 
into aimoll any form or fhape. But 
as this metliod is juflly exploded, and 
as every one who has the lesft preten- 
fion to tafte mult always prefer a tree 
in its natural growth to thofe mon- 
Itrous figures, the Yew is now chiefly 
planted for wilderntfs quarters, as al- 
fo for hedges, for which fervice it is 
exceiltntly wull adapted, aj no tree 
bears clipping fo well. 

Thefe trees may be eafily propagated 
by fowins thftir ber;ics in actumn. a^ 

B b b 3 f ion 



YEW 



Y O A 



loon as t!icy aie ripe, (without clear- 
ing them from the pulp whicli fur- 
rounds them, as liath been frequently 
direded) upon a (hady bed of frefh 
undunj^ed foil, covering them over 
about half an inch thick with the fame 
earth. 

In tlie fpring tiie bed muft be care- 
fully cleared from weeds, and if the 
feafon proves dry, it will be proper to 
refrelh the bed with water now and 
then, which will promote the growth 
of the feeds, many of which will 
come up the fame fpring, but others 
will remain in the ground iin'il au- 
tumn or the fpring following j but 
where the feeds are prefe;ved above 
ground till fpring before they are 
fown, the plants never come up till 
the year after ; fo that by fowing the 
feeds as foon as they are ripe, there Is 
often a whole year faved. 

Thefe plants, when they come up, 
fhould be conftantly cleared from 
weds, which, if permitted to grow 
amongrt them, will caufe their bot- 
toms to be naked, and frequently de- 
ftroy the plants when they continue 
long undirturbed. 

In this bed the plants may remain 
two years; after which, in autumn, 
there fhoiild be a fpot of frefh un- 
dunged foil prepared, into which they 
fhould be remov'd thebeginning of Oc- 
tober, planting them in beds about 
four or five feet wide, in rows about a 
foot afunder, and the fame dillance 
from each other in the rows, obferving 
to lay a little mulch upon the furface 
of the ground about their roots, as al- 
fo to water them in dry weather until 
they have taken root j after whicii 
they will require no farther care, but 
to keep them clear from weeds in fum- 
mer, and to trim them according to 
thepurpofeforwhich they are defigned. 



Ir, thefc beds they may remain tw» 
or thtee yeirs, according as they have 
giown, when they fhould again be 
removed into a nurfery, placing them 
in rows at three feet diltancc, and the 
plants eighteen inche» afunder in the 
lows ; obferve to do it in autumn, as 
was before dirc£led, and continue to 
trim them in the fummer feafon, ac- 
cording to tit- dcfign for which i they 
were Intended j and after tlicy have 
continued three or four years in tliis 
nurfery, they may be tranfplanted 
wheic they are to lemain ; alw.iys ob- 
ferving to remove them in autumn 
where the ground Is very dry, but on 
cold moid land it is better in the 
fpring. 

Thefe trees, though of flow growth, 
do fometimes arrive at a conliderablc 
fize. Mr. Pennant mentions one in 
Fontingal church-yard, in the High- 
lands of Scotland, whofe ruins mea- 
fured fifty-fix feet and a half in cir- 
cumference. 

Of the Yew there is a variety, with 
rtiort leaves, which appear very orna- 
mental in plantations. Ihere is alfo 
another with rtriped leaves of great 
value aniongft the variegated ti»be«. 
Thefe are increafe-d by layers, but the 
(triped fort muft be planted upon a 
barren foil, otherwife it will become 
plain. 

YEOMAN. The fi.rt, or higheft 
degree cf the plebeians of England. 
The yeomen are properly freeholders, 
who cultivate their own lands. 

YOAK, or YOKE. A frame of 
wood, fitted over the necks of oxen, 
whereby they are coupled together, 
and harneficd to the plough. (^ , - tftj/cfo , 

YoAK of Land. The quantity oT 
land which a yoak of oxen might 
plough in a day. 



N 



o 



BINDING "1^7. APR 1 8 Oa 



S A general dictionary of 
4-1 1 husbandry 

V.2 

Blolc-glcal 
& Medical 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 

UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



M 



L 



