



IMAGE EVALUATION 
TEST TARGET (MT-3) 




1.0 



I.I 



11.25 



^1^ l££ 

£ US 110 



U 11.6 



I 




Photographic 

Sciences 

Corporation 



23 west MAIN STREET 

WEBSTER, N.Y. 14580 

(710) 872-4503 




A^ 



CIHM/ICMH 

Microfiche 

Series. 



CIHIVI/ICMH 
Collection de 
microfiches. 




Canadian Institute for Historical IVIicroreproductions / Institut Canadian de microreproductions historiques 



O^ 





Technical and Bibliographic Notoa/Notes tachniquas at bibliographiquaa 



Tha Initituta has attamptad to obtain tha bast 
original copy availabia for filming. Faaturaa of this 
copy which may ba bibliographically uniqua. 
which may altar any of tha imagas in tha 
raproduction, or which may significantly changa 
tha usual mathod of filming, ara chackad balow. 



0Colourad covars/ 
Couvartura da coulaur 



I I Covars damagad/ 



D 



n 

n 



Couvartura andommagte 



Covars rastorad and/or laminatad/ 
Couvartura raatauria at/ou palliculia 



□ Covar titia missing/ 
La 



D 



titra da couvartura manq«ia 



Colourad maps/ 

Cartas gtegraphiquas an coulaur 

Colourad ink (i.a. othar than blua or black)/ 
Encra da coulaur (i.a. autra qua blaua ou noire) 

Colourad plates and/or illustrations/ 
Planches et/ou illustrations an coulaur 

Bound with other material/ 
ReliA avac d'autres documentk 

Tight binding may causa shadows or distortion 
along interior margin/ 

La re liure serrie peut causer de I'ombre ou de la 
distortion le long de la marge intArieure 

Blank leaves added during restoration may 
appear within the text. Whenever possible, these 
have been omined from filming/ 
II se peut que certainaa pages blanches ajouttes 
lors d'une restauration apparaissant dana la taxte. 
mais, lorsqua cela Atait possible, cas pages n'ont 
pas *t6 filmtea. 

Additional comments:/ 
Commentaires supplAmentaires: 



L'Institut a microfilm^ la mailleur exemplaire 
qu'il lui a ixt possible de se procurer. Les details 
de cet exemplaire qui sont peut-Atre uniques du 
point de vue bibliographiqua, qui peuvent modifier 
une image reproduite. ou qui peuvent exiger une 
modification dans la mAthoda normale de fiimage 
sont indiquAs ci-dessous. 



D 
D 

n 



n 
n 

D 
D 



Coloured pages/ 
Pages de couleur 

Pagea damaged/ 
Pages endommagias 

Pages restored and/or laminated/ 
Pages restaurias et/ou pelliculies 

Pages discoloured, stained or foxed/ 
Pages dAcolories. tachoties ou piquAes 

Pages detached/ 
Pages ditachtes 

Showthrough/ ^■';■>'' '■■ ,\'^'fi^/'-.v. 

Transparence _ .•-'■'•■/ •'.■;:;,.':•;■■'■" '''^ :' 

Quality of print varies/ 
Quality inigaia de {'impression 

Includes supplementary material/ 
Comprand du material suppiimentaire 

Only edition available/ 
Seule (ftdi:ion disponible 

Pages wholly or partially obscured by errata 
slips, tissues, etc.. have been refilmed to 
ensure the best possible image/ 
Les pages totaler.«nt ou partieliement 
obscurcies par jn feuillet d'arrata. una pelure, 
etc.. ont M filmies A nouveau de fapon A 
obtenir la meilleure image possible. 



H. 



4 ' 



This item is filmed at the reduction ratio checked below/ 

Ce document est film* au taux da riduction indiquA ci-dessous. 



10X 








14X 








18X 








Wk 








26X 








am; 






1 
























y 






























12X 








16X 








aox 








24X 








28X 








32X 


1 



Th« f^opy fllm«d h«r« has b««n raproduoMl thanks 
to th« g«n«rosity of: 

Douglas Library 
Qussn's Univarsity 



L'axamplaira film* f ut raproduit grica h la 
g«nAroaiti da: 

Douglas Library 
Quaan's Univarsity 



Tha imagaa appaaring hara ara tha baat quality 
posslbia consldadng tha condition and iaglbillty 
of tha original copy and In kaaping with tha 
filming contract apacif teatlona. 



Original copias In printad papar covars ara filmad 
baglnning with tha front covar and anding on 
tha last paga with a printad or liluatratad Impraa- 
slon, or tha back covar whan approprlata. AH 
othar original copias ara filmad baglnning on 'tha 
first paga with a printad or illustratad impraa- 
sion, and anding on tha laat paga with a printad 
or illustratad impraasion. 



Tha last racordad frama on aach microficha 
shall contain tha symbol —»> (moaning "CON* 
TINUSD"), or tha symbol ▼ (moaning "END"), 
whichavar applias. 



Laa imagaa sulvantaa ont 4t6 raproduitas avac la 
plua grand aoin, compta tanu da la condition at 
da la nattat* da raxamplaira fiimA, at an 
conformitA avac laa conditions du contrat da 
fllmaga. 

Laa axamplalras originaux dont la couvartura an 
papiar ast ImprimAa sont flimis an comman9ant 
par la pramiar plat at an tarminant aoit par la 
darnlAiM paga qui comporta una amprainta 
d'Imprassion ou d'iilustration, soit par la sacond 
plat, iiaion la cas. Tous laa autras axamplalras 
originaux aont f limte an commangant par la 
pramiAr* paga qui comporta una amprainta 
d'Imprassion ou d'iilustration a; an tarminant par 
la darnlAra paga qui comporta una taila 
amprainta. 

Un das symbolas suhrants apparattra sur la 
darnlAra imaga da chaqua microficha, salon ia 
caa: la symbo!a — ► signifia "A SUIVRE", ia 
symbols ▼ signifia "FIN". 



Maps, platac, charts, ate, may ba filmad at 
diffarant raduction ratios. Thosa too iarga to ba 
antiraly included in ona axposura ara filmad 
baglnning in tha uppar laft hand cornar, laft to 
right and top to bottom, aa many framas aa 
raquirad. Tha following diagrams iliustrata tha 
mathod: 



Las cartas, planchas, tabiaaux, ate, pauvant Atra 
filmte A daa taux da rMuction diff Arants. 
Loraqua ia document ast trap grand pour Atra 
raproduit an un saui ciichi, ii ast fiimA A partir 
da I'angla aupAriaur gaucha, da gauciia A droita, 
at da haut an baa, an pranant la nombra 
d'imagas nicassaira. Las diagrammas suivants 
iiluatrant la mithoda. 



% 



1 


2 


3 




t 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 



■'^ \ 



• 



* 



V5 



For Home and Country 






t 1 



TKe 






Homemaker's Comrade 



A Cook Book of Home Tested Recipes 




:%^^'^ 



#, 



Compiled by 

The Kin^smill-Mapleton 
Women's Institute , 



•It •■•-■ 







# 



^« 






• 



1 


< 




Your Assistance 


> 

• 


^^^H 






* 

Is Appreciated 

• 




1 










1 




r-'" ■ 


To all those who have kindly contributed 

their favourite recipes, and the advertisers 

; who have so generously helped to make this 




^^p- 






venture possible, the Kingsmill-Mapleton 

Institute extend their hearty thanks. We hope 

^■ to patronize those who have so willingly 




Wg 


- ~ -sf- 




assisted us, and trust that our book will prove 
a helping hand to many house-wives and home- 




W 




1 


makers, and incidentally a means of revenue to 
our Institute that they may go forward 




^^^K 




It 


carrying a torch of service for home and 




1 


■,- ' 




Country. " 

' ' ' i 

.. , .. » , . .. ., ,..,.. ■» .m i 


' 




1^ 



t» 






M- 



.# 



Kin^smill-Mapleton 
Women's Institute 




Officers: ";,•■ ;,,"i";y::?|' 

Honorary President Mrs. S. Garton 

President Mrs. W. Orris 

1st Vice President Mrs. H. Peer 

2nd Vice President Mrs. D. McGregor 

Secretary-Treasurer — Myrtle Paddon, R. R. 
. ! No, 8, St. Thomas 

Assist. Sec.-Treas Mrs. John Smith 

Directors — Mrs. J. Bray, Mrs. S. Parks, Mrs. 
J. Drake and Miss Eva Ler-p; 

District Director Mrs. J. Evert 



I- , : 



1^ 



We may live without friends 
We may live without books, 
But civilized man cannot 

Live without cooks. 
He may live without love 
What is passion but pining 
But where is the man 
Who can live without dining. 



(^^^^^C^C^C— 5~-«-^ I 



\. 



4^ ^ 



6 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



MP. Jones INSURANCE 



£. p. Jones 



Specializing Endowments and Life Policies. En- 
dowments for Children. Also full line of Fire, 
Auto, Sick and Accident Insurance. 



^ l'■»^; 



Journal Bldg. 477 Talbot Street 



Phone 1879-w 



"Outfitters of Boys" 

^^Richardsons' Boys Store" 

BOYS' CLOTHING AND FURNISHINGS 
Opposite Y.M.C.A., St. Thomas PHONE 1460 

■I 11 II ■ ■ II 11 m n ^— « — — «■— 

GOOD SHOES AT POPULAR PRICES 

Hockham's Shoe Store 

/ 683 Talbot Street, St. Thomas 
Oppositi Y.M.C.A., Phone 808-M 
• SHOES FOR THE WHOLE FAMILY 



Griffith & Sifton 

"FUNERAL HOME" 
LicMised Funeral Directors and Embalmers 

NEW AND MODERN EQUIPMENT v ^ 

Cor. Wellington and Princess Sts. Day or Night 

Phone 175 



•- /■■ 



■■ li 11 ■■ li M 



■I llfl 



KINCSMILK-MAl'I.ETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



-i> 



Soups 



>^ #'r'' 



Vermicelli Soup 

BoiJ a shin of veal in 3 quarts of water with a turnip, 
onion and carrot left whole. Boil 3 hours. Strain and add 1 
small cup of vermicelli, salt and pepper; boil 5 o"^ an hour, 
adding water as it boils away. — Mrs. Harry Goes. 



Potato Soup 

Slice 3 large potatoes and 1 large onion, cook until soft in 
3 cups of water ; mash with a wire masher ; add salt, pepper 
and 3 cups rich milk, and a large tablespoonful of blitter. 
Thicken with 2 tablespoons of flour. — Mrs. Don MacG'egor. 



Cream of Pea Soup 

One can of peas, 1 onion, 2 teaspoons of sugar, 2 cups 
of milk, 4 tablespoons butter, 2 tablespoons of flour, salt and 
pepper to taste. — Mrs. Jas. Moore. 

Cream of Tomato Soup 

Two cups of tomato, ?. cups of milk, 3 tablespoons of 
flour, one-eighth teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon salt. 3 slices of 
onion and some pepper. Let tomato and onion simmer 10 min- 
utes. Put milk on to heat. Mix flour, salt and pepper, with a 
little cold water and add to the milk. Cook 5 minutes after it 
thickens. Strain tomato and add soda. When ready to serve put 
tomato into the milk mixture. — Eva M. Legg. 



.-:- /' 






I ; ::iv 



;, ■; V' 



Tomato Soup (Camied) 

One peck ri^e tomatoes, 1 dozen small onions. 1 bunch of 
celery, 5 Bay leaves, 20 whole cloves. Let this cook 2 hours. 
Strain, Then add | cup of salt, 1 cup of sugar, 1 cup of butter, 
^ teaspoon cayenne and f cup of flour mixed to a paste in 
coW water. Boil ten minutes and seal. When serving put a 
little soda in this mixture and add cream or milk. — Mrs. O. 
Charl<"on 



8 



KINGSMIM^MAFLETON W. I. Cm)K BOOK 



♦.-— 



TRY 



"SURE-RIZE" 

Baking Powder '* 

Ensures successful results when baking. 

CAIRNS' f 



LIMITED 



AYLMER 



D. H. Connor, B. A. 

INSURANCE INVESTMENTS ESTATES 

NOTARY PUBLIC 

Aylmer, (West) Ontario 



' mi i W i m iWi n ■■■■ ■■■■■■■■ 



Phone 32-W for 
ALL KINDS OF HARDWARE & HARNESS 

Martin-Senour Paints, Birds' Roofing and Shingles, Beatty 
Electric Washers. Westinghouse Electric Ranges 
We Carry a Complete Line of Heaters and Ranges 

INSPECTION INVITED 



AYLMER 



Miller & Son 

"The Hardware Men" 



ONT. 



Price's Planing Mill 

i >- , John Street North, Aylmer 

Is prepared to do all kinds of Custom Work, including 
Doors, Frames, Sashes, Verandah Materials, Beaver 

5^.. v^,. and Wall Board, etc. 

Get Our Prices 



.'V >■• 



A, " 






KINGSMILL-MAIM.ETON W. I. aK)K BOOK 



9 



Lobster Soup z<^: 

One can of lolwter, picked fine, scald one quart of milk 
and 1 pint of water. Work 1 tablespoon of flour into \ lb. of 
butter ; add tt) milk ; then lobster, salt and red pepper to taste. 
Boil 10 minutes and serve. — Myrtle B. Charlton. 



I , 



Noodles 



One egg, pinch of salt, J cup water, flour to make very 
stiff, roll thin ; let dry and roll like n jelly roll ; cut in narrow 
shreds and cook in chicken soup. ' * 



^ 



Creun of Celery Soup 

One head of celery, wash and scrape, cut in ^ inch pieces 
in 1 pint of water. Cook until very tender. Mash in same 
water; add i teaspoon each of salt and pepper. Make a white 
sauce of 1 pint of milk. 1 tablespoon of flour and 1 tablespoon 
of butter. Add this to celery. Strain. Reheat and serve. — Mrs. 
Archie Ferguson. 



Tomato Soup with S*^ock 

One peck ripe tomatoes, 1 dozen large onions, 1 bunch of 
celery, 1 bunch parsley, 3 sweet peppers, 6 cloves. 8 bay , 
leaves. Boil together till well cooked, then strain and t'> the 
juice add — i cup gran, sugar, i cup salt, i cup butter, ^ teas- 

- poon cayenne. ^ cup fiour. Make into paste with a little of the 
cold juice. Cook till it thickens and seal. Recipe makes about 
4^ quarts. To serve add two pints of beef stock to 1 pint of 

- tomato soup, or for cream soup, add 2 pints of well seasoned 
milk to 1 pmt of tomato soup. Heat separately and combine 

' just before serving to prevent curdling. , ^ . 



J--;* .'.; Bean Soup ' ,; ■:*'' 

One and i cups beans, 1 medium onion, 2 stalks celery, 4 
cup butter, 2 tablespoons flour, 3 cups milk, salt and pepper. 
Soak beans over night and drain. Add water and cook till soft, 
adding onion and celery to beans after they have partly 
.cooked. Stir melted butter and flour together till smooth ; add 
milk and seasoning and cook. To this cream soup add the 
bean mixture and serve very hot. This recipe makes about 5 
servings. 



A - 



10 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



*« 



■■■ WIN M UM I K 



Dr. H. E. McKellar 

D. D. S., L. D. S. i 

557 Talbot Street 
Phone 586 ST. THOMAS 



•! 



Headquarters for tha Best in Radio 

Stanley Radio Sales 

Phone 2150 715 Talbot Street 

REPAIRS MADE ON ALL RADIOS 



■X 



Established 1872 



Wholesale and Retail 



Griffin 



COAL AND ICE COMPANY, LIMITED 
St. Thomas, Ontario 

Dealers in Coal, Ice, Cement, Sewer Pipe, 
Builder's Supplies 

Phone 850 Established 1883 

FOR QUALITY FUEL SEE 

M. B. Johnson 

FUELS OF ALL KINDS 

Office and Yards, 498 Talbot Street 
^ St. Thomas, Ontario 



....- A' >.^. - 



III ■ ■■ I II II liii 11 II I III 



"U III n il I 11 III II 



-«l lllli 



KINGSMILI^MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



11 



Fish 

Baked White Fish 

Clean and bone fish, then add 1 cup of bread crumbs, | 
cup melted fat, i teaspoon salt, one-eighth teaspoon celery 
salt, one-eighth teaspoon pepper, a few drop of onion juice 
and i cup of water. — Myrtle B. ^Charlton. 



Salmon Loaf 

One large can salmon, 2 eggs, 1 cup piilk, soda biscuits 
(rolled fine), salt and pepper. Mix together and steam 1 hour. 
— Mrs. Ed. Holmes. >^ ^ ^j - A, 15* * , 



Baked Creati^d Salmon with Spaghetti 

One can salmon, ^ lb. spaghetti broken fine, 1 tablespoon 
of butter, 1 pint of milk, 2 eggs. Boil spaghetti in salted 
water until tender. Drain and pour cold water through it. 
Greasje baking dish and put layer of spaghetti, layer of salmon, 
bits of butter, salt and pepper. Continue until all is used. Beat 
eggs. Add milk and pour over. Bake forty minutes. Serve with 
or withouj; white sauce. — Mrs. Harry does. 

*^" :• "-'^- .,,. . , -■ ■ ., ' -.-.' ,.-,.. ■ " .-.' • " - ■ . .^-■■. .,;■ 

JV V : 5^ Maitre IVHotel Butter ' 

Two tablespoons of butter, 1 tablespoon of lemon juice, 
i teaspoon salt, ^ teaspoon of pepper, 1 tablespoon of chopped 
parsley. Cream butter; add gradually, lemon juice, seasoning 
and parsley. Keep cool until served. 'This is especially nice 
with fish. — Mrs. Roy Charlton. 



Fried Oysters 






Select large oysters; drain, and dry between towels. Dip 
in beaten egg; then in dry sifted bread crumbs, which have 
be.:ii seasoned with salt and pepper. Fry in a wire basket in 
deep, hot fat until golden brown. These may be prepared 
some hours before and the breading process repeated after 
the first coat is dry. — Mrs. Harry Cloes. 



One-quarter cup of rice, 2 cups of cold water, 1 cup of salt 
codfish, soaked over night and drained, 1 tablespoon finely 



.- i£m 



12 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 






1^ 



;We have a Complete Stock of Higfh-'Grade and iMedium Grade 

FURNITURE, RUGS. LINOLEUM, GONGOLEUM RUGS, 

OILCLOTHS, ETC ' . - 

We Invite Comparison of Quality and Price 

—-Agents for — - 

OSTERMOOR, MARSHALL AND FISCHMAN MATTRESSES 

Geo. A. Allen & Son 

AYLMER, ONTARIO 
Funend Directors and Embalmers Motor Equipment 

Day and Night Calls receive our prompt Attention 
Phone: Store Z32. Residence 172-W or 172-J 



1 



■i ■ ■ f 



»W-» f1— »■■— NKaMMtff^ 



Carnation Milk 

Just Rich Whole Milk with 60 per cent, of the Water 
Removed by Evaporation. 

Use it as Milk or Cream in 
any Recipe. 



Carnation Milk Products Go. 



T T**?*!*!?!-! 



Condenseries at Aylmer and Springfield, Ont. 









•■•• 



M l I M I M 



KINCb L-7ilAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



13 



chopped green pepper, ^ cup buttered bread crumbs, 1^ cups 
milk, i cup white sauce. Cook rice until tender in the cold 
water. Drain, mix with the fish, pour milk and sauce over, 
sprinkle with crumbs and bake until nicely browned.— Myrtle 
Charlton. .5;..' w 



How to B<me a Fi«h , ;'. f 

After fish is cleaned cut head off. Commence at that point 
and run your thumb close to the backbone, pressing hard 
against it down the entire length on both sides toward the 
back. When both sides are thus loosened. You can easily lift 
the skeleton, as the smaller bones will adhere to the back- 
bone. This method is especially successful in boning whitefish 
on herring. 

Salmon Croquettes 

One and a half cups flaked fish, 1 cup thick white sauce ; 
season with salt and pepper, lemon juice and parsley. Shape, 
roll in bread crumbs, then in egg, then in crumbs again and 
fry in deep fat. Drain and garnish with parsley. — Myrtle B. 
Charlton. 

Oysters and Macaroni 

One pint of oysters, f cup macaroni broken in inch pieces, 
^ cup buttered crumbs, i cup butter, salt, pepper, flour. Cook 
.macaroni in salated water until tender. Rinse in cold water. 
Put layer in bottom of baking dish, cover with oysters, sprinkle 
,with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, add bits of butter. 
Repeat. Cover the top with buttered crumbs. Bake 20 minutes 
in a hot oven. — Mrs. Harry Cloes. 



Scalloped Salmon 

Flake a can of salmon and season well with salt and 
pepper. Crush soda biscuits and put the salmon and biscuits 
ni alternate layers in a baking dish having crumbs on top. 
Cover with milk, dot with butter and bake ^ an hour. 



To remove wall paper use a heaping tablespoon of salt- 
petre to one galio-i of hot water and apply to the wall with a 
brush. The water should be kept hot and applied often, this 
will loosen the paper so it may be pulled off easily. 



hil 



14 



r 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



"START THE DAY RIGHT" 



DRINK 



}•■■ 



Gold Medal Coffee 

Packed in Sealed Tins 
AT YOUR GROCERS 



The National Grocers Limited 



A Branch in Every District 



ST. THOMAS, ONT. 



.^>^. f. 



■iH- 



■v»-' 'i':- 



GO TO 



R. V. SMITH, Landscape Architect 
Members Florists' Telegraph Delivery Association 



•# ,,• 



-..f<>- 






Flowering Pot Plants, Cut Flowers, Ferns, Etc 
Floral Decorations, Garden Designs, Floral Designs 



Telephone 908 



W''i,'% 



ST. THOMAS ONT. 



,.*'^v,- 



■■' '"i 



T. 



— ♦ 



KINGSMTLL-MAPLETON W. T. COOK BOOTt 



15 



Meats 



Hun Balls 

Take i cup of bread crumbs and mix with it 2 beaten eggs, 
2 cups of cold chopped ham. Shape in balls and fry. — Mrs. 
Harry does. 

'^' ' Chicken Croquettes 

Chop fine any pieces of cold chicken, add half the quantity 
of bread crumbs, 1 egg, pepper and salt. Shape into balls and 
fry in a buttered pan. Serve hot. — Myrtle B. Charlton. 



*.-.■■ " 



Veal Loaf 



■■'ttL. 



Three pounds of raw veal or hamburg steak, 3 eggs, 3 
tablespoons cream. If milk is used add piece of butter. Mix 
eggs and cream, add 4 rolled crackers to veal ; put altogether 
adding 1 tablespoon of sage. Mould into a loaf. Bake 2^ hours 
basting with butter ar d water. Serve cut in thin slices. — Mrs. 
Roy Charlton. ,. -. ,; 



.* ■"?', 



n- 



Beef Heart Roasted 

Wash and stuff a large heart with dressing such as is 
used in turkey. Roast an hour and a half. Serve hot with 
gravy which should be thickened with some of the stuffing. — 
Mrs. Harry does. . . 

Spanish Steak 

Take 2 pounds of round steak 1 inch thick, season wt'th 
salt and pepper, cover with a layer of bacon. Roll and tie. Put 
in a covered baking dish and pour around it \ cup of milk, \ cup 
of water. Cook for 2 hours, basting occasionally. — Myrtle B. 
Charlton. 



- •■'^^»''''^- Mock Duck -^*-^-^^^'^^-^ 

Trim off the rough edges of a piece of round steak, 
sprinkle with salt arid pepper and spread over with a layer of 
bread crumb dressing as used for poultry. Roll like a jelly 
roll and cook in the oven with a little water or tomato juice. 
Serve hot or cold. — Eva M. Legg. 



16 



KINGSMIL^-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BCK}K 



MEN! •- ^^ 

It's a Most Remarkable offer, a SKILLjCRAFT SUIT 
:, . Made to Your Exact Measure 

$25,50 Extra Pants Free 

ALL THIS SEASON'S NEWEST WOOLLENS 

Huntley & Davenport 

Aylmer'a LeatUng Clothing and Furnishing Stors 



i .>■*■;•• 



COSY HOME QUEBEC 

It Heats, It Cooks, It Bakes, Prarides Hot Water, Bums 
Any Fuel, Hard or Soft Coal, Coke or Wood. Is 
Reasonably Priced 

MADE IN 3 SIZES AND FOR Sl\LE BY 

Allen & Butcher 

"The Comer Hardware" AYLMER, ONT. 

Mi ■■■ — Nw— >— W^— 1— I—— I — ■ a^WN^**— m> jM— fi— W M |i |i M ■■■■■■■■J ■■■■■ iiM* 

Caverly's Pork Shop 

WE CARRY A FULL LINE OF 
ALL PORK PRODUCTS, FRESH PORK LARD 
AND SAUSAGE 

Oii« Pound of Our Lard Goes Further than H tbs. of any other 
TRY IT IN YOUR BAKING 



Photographs Live Forever 



Robinson St udio 

(AYLMER) 

PICTURE FRAMING 

^ " (60 Different Mouldings) '• 



li ii m M ■ f t ■■■ 



■■ ■■ r V . Wl ■ I MI^^M— ^w^»<w 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



17 



Rice Ciwsmrole with Meat - 

~ Line a pint mould | inch deep with boiled rice. Chop fine 
any cold meat. Season with salt and pepper and onion. Beat 1 
egg, add 2 tablespoons ful of bread crumbs, then cold meat. 
Mix well and moisten with a little stock sufficiently to pack 
in mould. Cover with rice and steam 45 minutes. Loosen from 
edge, invert on platter and serve with tomato sauce. — Myrtle 
B. Charlton, 

Yorkshire Pudding for Roast Beef 

Three eggs, 1 cup of flour, 1 pint of milk, salt to taste. 
Beat eggs very light, add milk and flour. Pour into roast pan 
from which you have just removed your roast leaving about 
^ cup of hot fat. 

Chicken Patties ^ 

Line rather large patty pans with pie crust and bake. Fill 
with the following mixture: 2 cups of milk, 2 tablespoons 
flour, 2 tablespoons butter, blend into a cream sauce, then add 
stewed chicken, chopped; a piece of butter, season with salt 
and pepper. Serve hot. —Mrs. Lorne Munro. 

Chicken King 

One cup cold boiled fowl cut in cubes, ^ cup of milk ; ^ cup 
cream, ^ cup chicken stock, 1 tablespoon corn starch, ^ cup 
sauted mushrooms, | teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons butter, i 
cup pimentoes cut in strips. Melt butter, add cornstarch and 
stir until well mixed. Add gradually stock, milk and cream> 
stirring constantly. Bring to boiling point and add the other 
ingredients. Cook until it bubbles. Serve hot on toast. 



DreMing for Duck or Goose 

Mash 3 cups of potatoes fine, add 3 cups of bread crumbs, 
season with minced onion, sage, salt and pepper. Never fill the 
fowl more than three-quarters full. — Mrs. Harry does. 

Fried Chicken 

' Cut up chicken. Roll in flour and fry in hot butter or part 
nice dripping. Season with salt and pepper. Cover until about 
half done. Then brown. Pour off most of the fat, add a cup of 
boiling water and thicken with a tablespoon of flour. — Mrs. 
Harry does. 



Ig 



KINGSMILI^MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



NO WAITING 6-CHAIR ATTENTION 

LADIES' and CHILDREN'S 
HAIR CUTTING A SPECIALTY 

Wm. Barrett & Son 



674 Talbot Street 



ST. THOMAS, ONT. 



Do It Electricaily 

WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC RANGES 
LOCOMOTIVE ELECTRIC WASHERS 
Fixtures and Appliances 

Bowley Electric 



•i r 



"The Store with a Stock" 
378 Talbot Street, St Thomas 



Phone 1867 



Telephone 142 



81-83 Ross Street, St. Thomas 



t i 



Frank N. Barrett 



•^-.: -i I 



Hardware, Tinwar<af Graniteware, Stoves, Paints, Oils 

and Glass, Wallpaper, Electric Stoves, Washers 

and Appliances 






Builders' Supplies 

Portland Cement, White Pine Lath, Hydrated Lime. 

Paristone, B.C. Cedar Shingles, Sewer Pipe, Beach- 

■ l;i^ ville White Lime, Lumber ^ - 



1. C. Turville 



TSJC? rirkAt k«AM 



St. Thomas, Ontario 



OL 

'A- aawiw 



^ OJ 



4i.-.«. 



■ » I ' n b- 



■«■ ^t ^f 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



19 



Sauaace Pie 

One and a half pounds sausage, cover with water, boil 
for 10 minutes. Take out sausage, let cool. Peel oflF skin and 
cut in i inch pieces. Slice as many raw potatoes as you have 
sausage. Cook till nearly done in water in which the sausage 
was boiled, with one large onion. Add sausage. Put all in 
baking dish. Cover with crust made of rich biscuit dough and 
bake until nicely browned. 

Baked Ham (Smoked) 

Peel and slice very thin 4 potatoes in a buttered baking 
dish. Chop together a sweet pepper and an onion, season with 
salt and pepper and put a layer over the potatoes. Dredge well 
with flour. Cover with a slice of ham I^ inches thick and add 
the rest of the onion mixtures. Dredge thickly again with 
flour, pour on two cups of milk, dot with butter and bake 45 
minutes. . „ 



StuCFed Spare Ribs 

Make a dressing as for fowl, using bread crumbs, salt, 
pepper, onion, sage or savory and a couple of mashed potatoes. 
Moisten all with melted shortening. Put in a layer of ribs in 
the bottom of a bake dish. Cover thickly with the dressing 
and put a layer of ribs on top. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
put I cup water in the dish to prevent burning. Bake till meat 
is done, covering the dish when it has been cooking % of an 
hour. . » . - 



Jellied Veid 

Cover and boil a veal shank till meat drops from bones. 
Season with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, chopped celery and 
a little lemon juice. Wet a mold with cold water. Line bottom 
and sides with slices of hard boiled eggs. Cut the meat in small 
pieces and fill the mold. Strain juice and pour over meat. Set 
aside in a cool place to jelly. To serve turn on a plate and 
garnish with parsley. 



Ham Balb 



Chop fine pieces of cold ham (bits around the hock and of 



the hitUi bone may u6 



well U3CVX 1.01 






I cup bread crumbs, pepper and salt. Make into balls and fry 
golden brown in a pan containing hot fat. 



20 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



»■■■ m Miii M itM 



■ O II ■■n— iif 



ill' 



b 



1 

Wi 



The People's Hardware 

AYLMER 
3helf and Heavy Hardware, 

Sherwin-WiUiams Paints, ^ 

McClary'ft Stoves and Ranges 

Splitdorf Radio Sets 

C. B. BROWN 



—■ ■■■■■II M^»W^i^ti^—«i^^MII ■■ ■■■^—■B ^— ■■^-HIN i— _«*<—«« - 



Pierce, Parker & Co. 

AYLMER, ONTARIO 

Dealers in 
Flour, Binder Twine, Fertilizers, Feed. Cement, Coal, 
Seeds, Fence and Coke 

Highest Prices paid for Grains 

■■^^es— »■ ■■ ^ M ^^» si » ■■■■■■■■■—■■——■ ■■■ ■■—■—■■ ■■■■■■!■■■■■ ■■.^-■■■^M— Mii^^iw— »wir«^tm-" 

Ladies' Ready-to- Wear Millinery 

Fancy and Staple Dry Goods 

Quality Comes First WE HAVE IT 

Service Comes Next !..— WE GIVE IT 

Satisfaction is What You Vv^ant 
We Guarantee It 

DURKEE & SON 

PHONE 80 AYLMER 



-■■ — — li^^gK— 



FOR EVERYTHING IN 
FRESH, SMOKEiD AND CURED MEATS 

Try "The City Butcher Shop 

H. M. Nelson, Prop. 

Phone 78, Aylmer 

Best Quality Lard and Shortening 



>f 



(J«i^_m>HMM« 



»■■ ■ ■■■■■ ■»■ 



■M^— M^— ■ ■■■■ ■■ M l— «« ■■■■ II i M i^iiigi ■! I 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. 1. COOK BOOK 



21 



Irish Stow 

Cut lamb in dice, usine shoulder meat. Cover with boiling 
water and cook slowly till tender. When about half-cooked 
add i cup each of carrot, turnip and salsify. Cut in small 
pieces and 1 onion and 2 sticks of celery sliced. About 16 
minutes before it is done add potatoes cut fine. Season with 
salt and pepper and slightly thicken the gravy. 

Pot RomU 

Four to six pounds of shoulder beef. Put a little suet in a 
kettle and let it get very hot. Put in beef and sear all sides to 
a rich brown. Add a pint of boiling water and cook, using just 
enough water to keep it from burning. Cook till meat is 
tender but do not let it fall apart. Add seasoning after first 
half hour. Serve with brown gravy. 

Swim Steak 

Take a piece of round steak and lay flat on table or 
board. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and dredge well with 
flour. Pound until flour is absorbed and then add more flour. 
Keep pounding till it will take no more flour. Turn and treat 
the other side similarly. Sear both sides in a pan in which 
there is hot fat. Then add 1 cup water and simmer till tender. 
Steak thus treated should be from | to 1 inch thick. 



Bread 



Brown Bread 

Two cups bran, 2 cups white flour, | half cup brown 
sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 taespoonful soda ; Mix with butter- 
milk to about the stiffness of fruit cake. Bake one hour in a 
slow oven. — Mrs. Arthur Bailley. 



J',7 



Salt Rising Bread 



Early in the morning make a batter in a tea-cup consist- 
ing of a ii cup hot water, a pinch of salt and soda and corn meal. 
/Keep warm until light ; it should rise to nearly top of cup ; 

,cpt aeir1f> until npvt rlav TVipn nut hnt watf»r in a larorpr rlicVi 
.„_- ... — _, . ^ ... _ J, — „. — 

(a d lb. lard pail will answer), and make a batter by adding 
flour, another pinch of salt and sodai and add contents of cup. 



l! 



M 



id' ' 

m i 

ill 



! 



1: 



!l I 



;22 



Ki MlLL-MAl'//ET()N W. !. COOK BOOK 



EVERYTHING TO BE FOUND IN A MODERN 
JEWELRY STORE , 

_,,■: X. .. .. .—at— . 't:.:-) ^ '■;. . :; 

Porter & Nelson's 

503 Talbot Street ST. THOMAS, ONT. 



W.J.Milton 

Contractor for . 

BATHROOM FIXTURES, LAUNDRY TUBS, SINKS 
Steam and Hot Water Heating 



W,, ' 



L.W. White 

WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER 
647 TallMt Street, ST. THOMAS, ONT. 

Expert Watch, Clock and Jewelry Repairing. All Work 
Guaranteed at Reasonable Prices 



Miss Charlotte Walker 

Ta. %CHER of PIANO AND HARMONY 

Tort; r.to ».>>.i .ei vatory of Music Examinations 
Studio: Journal Bldg., St. Thomas . : 



•«■ A Mm ... 

mone «*o-iv 



mm^—m^^tt^ 



■ M !■■■ I ■■■ 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W, 1. C(X)K B(H)K 



23 



When pail is full have ready sotne scalded milk and water; 
add flour and contents of p;iil. When 'lis is light knead down 
and when light again mould into loaves. Let rise. Make a 
small batch at a time. Keep warm and warm dishes nnd hoard. 
Po not let it chill, but never scald the butter. — Mrs. S, L. 
Parkes. 

• Four Hour Bread 

C)n# iarge handful flour, i cup granulated sugar, 1 teas- 
pi »c)n salt. 1 cup mashed potatoes. Potato water. Mix flour. 
o'^;ar and salt in a crock. Pour over the hot potato water; add 
potatoes ; let cool and when cool put in an yeast cake which 
has been dissolved in a little warm water. Set in a warm place. 
Ey night it will look foamy. Next morning warm mixture ; 
^dd more water if desired, a piece of lard and a little s.4lt, and 
mix quite stiflF with flour; keep warm and when light knead 
and let rise again. Put in pans. Rise till double in si e and 
bake, 2 quarts of yeast mixture makes four large loaves. — 
Mrs. L. K. Laidlaw. 

White Bread 

Yeast Part — Scald one cup flour, one-third cup supar, 
•pinch of salt with potato water at noon. Beat thoroughly and 
add 3 tablespoons mashed potatoes. Set away to cool. Then 
break one yeast cake in one-third cup of lukewarm water. 
When the scalded part is luke-warm, add the dissolved yea -t 
(cake. Beat thoroughly. Cover and set in a fairly warm place to 
raise. In the evening make a sponge by adding as much luke- 
warm water to the yeast as you think you need. I had 2| 
quarts for 7 or 8 loaves. Cover warm; let rise over night. Mix 
•stiflf in morning, adding a big handful of salt. Cover warm 
and mould into loaves. — Mrs. J. A. Evert. 

Nut Bread 

One cup brown sugar, one egg, one cup sweet milk, 2 
teaspoonsful Baking Powder, ^ cup chopped nut meats, 
rj cup chopped dates or raisins, 3 cups flour. Let rise in a warm 
place for 20 minutes and bake in a moderate oven, — Mrs. J. A. 
Evert. 



Bran Loaf 

One teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 cupsful flour, 2 cups- 
ful bran, 1 cupful br(»\vn sugar, LJ cups sour milk, i cup 
chopped walnuts, ^ cup chopped dates. — Mrs. S. Caron. 



'fl 



T3f': 



24 



KINGSMILL-MAPLEXCN W. I. COOK BOOK 



*- 



Wall Paper 



STAUNTON'S SEMI-TRIMMED 



— AND— 



SUNWORTHY PAPERS 



McLachlins Book Store 



(70 Years in St, Thomas) 



«— ^ 



M * 



l^r \ 






f 



n ^ 



On Every Occasion 

We specialize in Wedding Bouquets, Graduation Bouquets, 

Corsage and Funeral Designs. We carry a complete line of 

POT PLANTS, FERNS AND BASKETS 

Flowers Delivered to Any Part of the World 

W. S. Rylands 

"The House of Flowers" 

Phone Greenhouses 7-W 
Nurseries^ Alma Street 



492 lalbot Street 

The Heart of St. Thomatf 



Phone 413 Day or Night 



■ IM IMH llMBBll UM..IMI. 



■ P 



KINGSM1LI.-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



25 



Graham Date Loaf 

One cup white flour, 2 cups graham flour, 1 cup yellow 
jsugar, salt, butter tlie srze of tin egg, 1 cup chopped dates, ^ 
cup chopped nuts, 1 teaspoon soda, 1^ cupsful sour milk. Bake 
one hour. — Mrs. S. Curtiss, 



Sweet >lul Bread 

Four cupfuls flour, | cup white sugar, 1 cup walnut 
meats, 1 teaspoon salt, 4 teaspoonsful baking powder, 1 egg, 
•one cup of sweet milk. Mix altogether to iorm a loaf. Let stand 
in pan twenty luinutes. Bake in moderate oven one-half hour ; 
try with a straw. Raisins may he Used in place of nuts. — Mrs. 
E. Legg. 

Bate Bread 

Two cupsful graham flour, 1 cup white flouf, \ cup browft 
sugar, 2 cupsful sweet milk. 2 teaspoonsful baking powder, 1 
teaspoon salt, 1^ pounds dates. Let rise 20 uiinutes in a warm 
place and bake one houT in a moderate oven. — Myrtle B. 
Charlton, 

Warm Biscuilft 

One quart flour, 2 large teaspoons baking powder, 2 table- 
spoons lard, salt ; pour sweet milk over flour and stir with 
epoon. Mix until just merely stiflf enough to hold together and 
drop from spoon on hot pans. Bake in a quick oven* — AIr>s. 
Walter Moore, 

Baking Powder Biscuits 

Two citps flour, 4 teaspoons baking powder. | teaspoOn 
salt, 2 tablespoons butter, ^ cup mlik and water in equal 
parts. Sift dry ingredients three or four times. Add shortening 
working it into the flour with the tips of the fingers, gradually 
add liquid, mixing it in with a knife. Use as much liquid as is 
necessary to make a dough as soft as can be handled on a 
board ; turn out on a floured board ; pat and roll lightly to | 
inch in thickness. Cut with a cake cutter ; shape up the edge 
a little and immediately put into a hot oven. Brushing the tops 
with a little milk before putting into oven makes a nice golden 
brown. — Eva M. T-egg. 



To remove paint from the glass in window panes, rub with 
the edge of a coin. , ._ ^ 



26 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 




THE LARGEST STOCK OF 

WaU Paper 

IN EAST ELGIN 



IS AT 



TheWhite Drug Store 

Aylmer 

Over 300 patterns to choose from. 



■■-k- 






t' 






ALWAYS ASK FOR 



Brediii's Cream Loaf 



Manufactured by 



Canada Bread Co., Ltd. 

The Quality goes in before the Name goes on 



Phone Metcalfe 944. LONDON 



»n^m^h ii I m H' 



» ■ ■ «■ ■ M il 



■»■■ m i —MS I mtmm 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



27 



Grandma's Buns 

Three cups lukewarm water, ^ cup lard, 1 cup yellow 
sugar, 1 cup currants or raisins, 1 tablespoon salt, 1 yeast cake, 
1^ or 2 quarts flour. Soak yeast cake in water ten minutes; 
dissolve lard, add sugar, salt and yeast cake to flour. Let 
rise. At night add fruit and enough flour to mix, not too stiff. 
Let rise till morning and mix down again. Let rise till treble 
in size. Cut out small buns ; let rise till double in size and bake 
in a moderate oven. — Jean Weaver. 



Cinnamon Rolls 

Take a piece of bread dough, roll out to about an inch 
thick, spread with butter and then brown sugar ; sprinkle with 
cinnamon ; then roll up as for jelly roll and cut slices about one 
inch thick from end of roll. Let rise and bake twenty minutes. 
By adding fruit to butter and sugar, or cocoanut and vanilla, 
you can vary the rolls to fruit rolls or cocoanut rolls. — Mrs. 
A. Moore. 

Parker House Rolls 

One cake Fleischman's yeast, 1 pint milk, scalded and 
ct)oled, 2 tablespoons sugar, 4 tablespoons melted shortening, 
3 pints sifted flour, 1 teaspoon salt. Dissolve yeast and sugar 
in lukewarm milk ; add shortening and 1^ pints of flour. Beat 
until perfectly smooth. Cover and let rise in a warm place 1 
hour or until light. Then add remainder of flour (or enough 
lo make a dough), and salt. Knead well. Place in greased bowl. 
Cover and let rise in warm place until double in bulk. Roll out 
one-fourth inch thick. Brush over lightly with melted butter. 
Cut with 2-inch biscuit cutter; crease through centre heavily 
with dull edge of knife and fold over in pocket-book shape. 
Place in well-greased shallow pans 1 inch apart. Cover and let 
hise till light. Bake ten minutes in hot oven. — Mrs. James 
Moore. 



If an article is scorched with the iron, wring a cloth out 
of a solution of equal parts of hydrogen peroxide and water. 
Cover the scorched part and iron dry. If it is not all removed 
the first time give it the second application. 

When washing or rinsing coloured materials a teaspoon 
of P2psom salts added to each gallon of water will prevent 
fad.ng or running. ^ 



% 




"•; . ! 



! m 



28 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



|wi II 



The Belmont Hardware 

General and Shelf Hardware 

Enamelware, Cutlery, Stoves, Sherwin-Williams Paint, 

Roofing, Gold Medal Twine, Pure Manilla Rope, Gutta 

Percha Tires, British American Gasoline 

and Oils 

E. F. JENKINS, Prop. 



The Yarmouth Centre Store 

Handles only the BEST 

Groceries, Confectionery, Dry Goods, Meats, Hard- 
ware, Boots and Rubber Goods, Gasoline, Oils, Tires and 
Tubes that money can buy. 

H. B. SUTTON. Prop. 



-■M w iM^«MB. 



The People's Grocery 

Choice Groceries and Provisions, Domestic and 
Foreign Fruits 



-o- 



L. H. Grandy 

New Sarum, Ont. Phone 68, Yarmouth Tel. 



■HI ~»HII»-*Kd - 



For Quality, Style and Value in 

Men's and Boys' Clothing and 
Furnishings 

Gome to 

Hardings Men's & Boys' Store 

ST. THOMAS 



■ I II 11 l«— «l— M.JWM. 



■ii^ii— M 1 1 n il ■ m il II I II III III I ii^»«i« 



■II I— ly 






KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



29 



Hot Supper Dishes 



Baked Rice and Tomatoes 

One cup rice, 2 cups strained tomatoes, 1 small onion, 
(minced), ^ lb. cheese (grated), 2 tablespoons butter. Pepper 
and salt. Mix all together. Bake. — Mrs. Skeene Smith. 



Spanish Rice 

Season 1 pint tomatoes as for serving and add 1 cup of 
water. To ^ lb. Hamburg steak add 1 chopped onion, salt and 
pepper. Mix the steak with the tomatoes and add | cup dry 
rice. Turn into a baking dish, dot with butter and bake till rice 
is tender. Serve hot. — Myrtle Paddon. 

Creamed Chicken on Toast 

Bits of chicken taken from the frame of the fowl may be 
chopped and added to a well seasoned white cream sauce. 
Spread thickly on fresh hot toast and serve on a hot plate. — 
Myrtle Paddon. 

Casserole Chicken 

Cut a chicken in pieces, roll in flour. Sprinkle with salt 
and pepper. Put all in a casserole with a cup of water and a 
small piece of butter. Cover tightly. Cook until done. Will 
cook old chicken tender. — Mrs. A. Moore. 

Sausage Leaf 

Line a baking dish with dressing made of 3 cups bread 
crumbs, 2 tablespoons butter, 2 tablespoons minced onion, ^ 
teaspoon of salt, ^ teaspoon pepper, and ^ teaspoon summer 
savory. Fill centre with sausage and bake 1 hour. — Mrs. 
James Patterson. 

Boston Baked Beans 

Soak 2 cups beans in soda water over night. In the morn- 
ing cook (until the skins burst open) in fresh water. Mix ^ 
tablespoon mustard, ^ cup yellow sugar, pepper and salt. Place 
in the bean pot with two or three slices of pork. Bake, adding 
water occasionally till done and not too dry. Serve hot. — Mrs. 
E. Holmes. 



30 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



-^rK. -'"•'^... Cheese Souffle . :' '''y- 

Two tablespoons butter, 1 tablespoon flour, ^ cup milk, 1 
cup grated cheese, 3 eggs, ^ teaspoon of salt and pepper. Put 
butter in saucepan. When hot add flour. Stir until smooth, add 
milk and seasoning. Cook 2 minutes. Add yolks of eggs well 
beaten, and the cheese. When cold add whites of eggs beaten 
to a stiff froth. Turn into a buttered dish. Place dish in pan 
of water and bake 20 minutes. Serve at once. — Mrs, Archie 
Ferguson, 



Cauliflower and Cheese 

One medium sized cauliflower, 2-3 cup grated cheese. 
Separate cauliflower into flowerlets and cook in boiling salted 
water until tender, but still firm. Drain and place in casserole. 
Prepare a cream sauce of 2 cups milk, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 
tablespoons flour, salt and pepper. Into this stir the cheese. 
Pour this over the cauliflower. Sprinkle with cracker crumbs 
and dot with bits of butter. Bake until nicely browned. — Mrs. 
R. McGregor. 

Welsh Rarebit 

Scald 1 pint of milk, thicken slightly with corn starch. 
Stir in the following previously mixed together : 1 cup grated 
cheese, 1 tablespoon mustard, salt and pepper. Let stand until 
cheese is thoroughly melted. Pour over slices of buttered toast 
and serve at once. — Mrs. Eugene Sweet. 



French Baked Eiggs 

Butter muffin dishes and in each put 1 tablespoon cracker 
crumbs and 1 tablespoon milk. Break in an egg and season 
with salt and pepper. Cover with crumbs, moisten with milk, 
dot with butter and sprinkle with grated cheese. Bake in a 
slow oven till golden brown. Serve hot garnished with parsley. 
—Myrtle M. Paddon. 

Italian Spaghetti 

Cook I package spaghetti in salted boiling water, drain 
and wash in cold water. Fry 2 large onions in T tablespoon of 
fat until brown, add 1 pound of hamburger and fry until done. 

Add 1 pint tomato to the spaghettit and when hot, com- 
bine with the meat, salt and pepper to taste. Cook slowly 15 
minutes. This may be heaped on a platter and sprinkled with 
grated cheese, — Mrs. Don McGregor. 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W, 1. COOK BOOK 



31 



Foamy Omelette 

Two eggs, 2 tablespoons hot water or milk, | teaspoon of 
salt, li teaspoons butter. Beat yolks until light, add milk or 
hot water (water gives a more tender texture). Add salt and 
fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Put butter in heated ome- 
lette pan.. Pour in mixture. Cook over slow heat until set. Then 
put in a hot oven to dry out. Fold and serve. 

Variations — An omelette may be packed before being 
folded with chopped ham or fowl, jelly, grated cheese or peas 
and chopped crisp bacon. Cream sauce, cheese or tomato sauce 
may be poured around it. — Mrs. Eardly Finch. 



Hot Beans in Tomato Sauce 

Boil beans 2 or 3 hours in soda water. Drain and add to 
sauce made of the following: 1 tablespoon mustard, | cup 
vinegar, 1 cup sugar, salt and pepper, ^ pint tomatoes, 1 
medium sized sliced onion. Bake. — Mrs. Cyril Williams. 



Macaroni and Salmon 

One cup milk, 4 tablespoons of cream, 2 cups bread 
crumbs, 2 eggs, 1 cup cooked macaroni, 2 cups salmon, 4 
tablespoons melted butter, 1 teaspoon salt, paprika. Heat 
milk and crumbs together, stir in slightly beaten egg yolks, 
add macaroni, salmon, cream, butter and salt. Fold in stiffly 
beaten egg whites and pour in a buttered baking dish. Sprinkle 
with paprika. Put in a pan of water and Iwike 40 minutes. — 
Mrs. R. McGregor. 

Potato Puff 

Two cups mashed potatoes, ^ cup milk, 2 well beaten egg 
yolks. 2 tablespoons butter, salt and pepper. Beat well and 
add stiffly beaten egg whites. Pile lightly in a buttered dish. 
Bake until puffed and brown. — Miss Alta Holmes. 



Stuffed Potatoes 

Cut hot baked potatoes in half. Remove the pulp, mash it 
and add enough milk for the usual consistency of mashed po- 
tatoes. Season with butter, salt and pepper. Fill the cases with 
this mixture. Dot the tops with bits of butter or brush over 
with m'lk. Bake 8 or 10 minutes in a hot oven. 

Variations — Beaten white of egg, (1 egg to 3 medium 
sized potatoes), j cup grated cheese, ^ cup chopped meat or 
1 tablespoon chopped parsley to same amount.— Eva M. Legg. 



32 



KINGBMILL-SrAPLETOlSr W. L COOK BOOK 



^ 



Reliable Footwear 

—FOR— 

All the Family 

The Sears Shoe Store 

AYLMER, ONT, 



; 



Young's Bread 

Bread is the real basis for a balanced meal, therefore 
should be made of Highest Quality products. You have 
it here, made in your town. 



-o- 



Ask for Young's 



E. £. Atkinson 

(G, R. Shaw, Assistant) 

FUNERAL AND AMBULANCE SERVICE 
Prompt Attention Given Day or Night 

Licensed Funeral Directors and Embalmers 

PHONE 311-w AYLMER, ONT. 

H. E. Armstrong 

Notary Public and Conveyancer 

AYLMER, ONTARIO 

Insurance, Collections, Investments, Mortgage Loans, 
Real Estate, C. P. R. Ticket Agent 



4^- 






KINGSMILL-MAPLETOW W. 1. COOK BOOK 



Potato Cheese Puff* ? - ^ 

Two cups cold mashed potato, ^ cup grated cheese, 1 
beaten egg, a litUe "batter, salt and pepper. Beat well. Put in 
patty pans and bake in a quick oven. — Myrtle B, Charlton. 

Cornflake Potato Balk 

Shape hot mashed potatoes into round halh. Dip ia\ «i 
slightly beaten egg, then roll in cornflakes. Place on a greased 
pan and put in a hot oven until potatoes are reheated and corn- 
flakes are crisp. Sere hot. — Edith McGreg^or, 

Escallopecl Onions 

Boil until tender 6 large onions. Cut. Place a layer of 
onions in baking dish then a layer of bread crumbs. Repeat 
finishing top with crumbs dotted with butter, salt and pepper 
to taste. Moisten with milk. Put in oven to brown. — Myrtle 
B. Charlton. • . * 

Tonu^o Cups 

Hollow out the stem end of medium siaed tomatoes until 
the cavity will hold 1 egg, a bit of butter, pepper and salt. Put 
in the oven until the egg is cooked. Do not peel tomatoes* 

Excellent Baked Hash 

Chop any pieces of cold meat. Put in a frying pan. To 
each pint of meat add 1 cup bread crumbs, 1 tablespoon but- 
ter, salt and pepper to taste. Now add enough gravy or hot 
water to moisten. Mix thoroughly and bake 30 minutes in a 
hot oven, — Mrs, Evert. 

Salmon Patties 

Equal parts salmon and mashed potatoes, 1 egg, salt, 
pepper and minced onion. Mix thoroughly. Shape in patties 
an fry till both sides are nicely browned. — Mrs. Eugene 
Sweet. 



Salmon Loaf 

One can salmon minced, 1 tablespoon butter, 5 soda 

milk. Mix altogether. Steam 1^ hours. Serve cold. — Mrs. 
Clarence Rogers. 



• iM; 



34 



KINCSMILL-MAPLETON W. I. COOK B<K)IC 



Salmon andlf Pea» 

One cm salmon heated in boiling: water. Then cut can on 
side near the top so the salmon will stay in a roll when emp- 
tied from the can. Take liquid from salmon and 1 cup milk. 
Season with pepper, salt and butter. Thicken as for milk sauce. 
Place hot salmon on platter, garnish with H cups cooked 
peas. Then pour over all the salmon sauce and serve. — Mrs. A. 
Moore. 

Sandwiches ^ 



►1 ! 


• : ■ 




■ i tf? ■ ■ 


■ 


, ■ i|'> 




1 J ;j| 1 - 




' Wf^-''' 




ir 








I !■ 




|f' 




, i' 


,, 


1 


P: 


; : 



Love Sandwiches 

Lay slices of buttered bread in frying pan, buttered side 
down. Cover with slices of cheese, sprinkle with salt and 
paprika, cover with another slice of bread, butter side up ; 
allow to brown and then turn and brown other.side. Cut either 
in triangles or fingers. — Mrs. Don. MacGregor. , , 

Open Sandmches 

Cut whole wheat or white Canada bread ^ inch thick, 
remove crust and cut in fancy shapes. Spread with cream 
cheese, mixed with a little cream or salad dressing, (a fish 
paste may be used.) Dip in finely chopped nuts, garnish 
with cress, parsley and pimentoes, olives or radishes. 

Club Sandwiches 

Butter toast made of Canada bread, allowing 3 slices for 
each person. On first slice place a lettuce leaf and a layer of 
sliced chicken. Spread a slice of toast with mayonnaise, place; 
over the chicken with the mayonnaise side down. On this place- 
slices of tomato, and crisp bacon. Spread the remaining slice 
with mayonnaise and turn over tomato and bacon. Cut iu 
triangles and garnish with parsley, ripe or stuflfed olives. 

Rolled Toasted Chese Sandwiches 

Cream cheee and butter together. Spread on slices of fresh 
white bread. Roll the bread. Toast and serve. / 

Ham Pimento Sandwich 

Ciiop nam and pimentos, mix with mayonnaise and spread 
between thin slices of bread and butter. A crisp lettuce leaf 
may be added. — Mrs. Archie Ferguson, 



KINnSMILI^MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



35 



Tongue Sandwiches 

Beef tongue put on to boil in very little cold water. 
When tender cool and peel, slice very thin. Cover each slice 
with mayonnaise t<j which a little chopped onion has been 
added.— Mrs. D. O. White. 

Olive and Peanut Sandwiches 

' - « 

Put olives and peanuts through the food chopper. Mix 
thoroughly. Add enough salad dressing to make a paste. Place 
a crisp lettuce leaf on thin slices of bread and spread with 
filling. — Mrs. Eugene Sweet. 

Tomato Sandwich Spread 

Twelve ripe tomatoes not peeled> 3 medium sized onions 
cooked until tender. Put through seive. Mix the following and 
add 1 cup sugar, ^ cup salt, 6 tablespoons of mustard. ^ cup of 
flour, 1 cup vinegar. Cook all this together. Then add 4 sweet 
l)eppers & 1 hot pepper (chopped). Put peppers in. Boil up and 
seal. Use as a spread between tljin slices of bread. — Mrs. S. 
Herbert. 

Domino Sandwiches 

Butter slices of white and whole wheat bread. On a slice 
of white, spread cream cheese. Lay a slice of whole wheat on 
this, butter side up. Spread this with chopped tongue or chicken 
mixed with pickle and mayonnnaise ; then a slice of white bread 
spread with chopped sweet peppers ; another slice of whole 
wheat. Trim ofif the crusts evenly. Put under a weight and let 
stand several hours in a cool place. Cut crosswise in thin slices 
when ready to serve. — Mrs. Don. McGregor. 



Sweet Sandwiches 

Equal parts of bananas and nuts (chopped) mixed together 
with mayonnaise. Dates and nuts or raisins and nuts may be 
used in the same way with either white or whole wheat bread. 
—Mrs. D. O. White. 



'" Sahnon Sandwich Filling 

One can of salmon, 3 hard boiled eggs chopped, juice of 1 

lemnn. 1 tahlesnoon of vinep-ar. 2 tahlesnoons nf chonnerl ntrk-lf». 
, _ J — . — jg — ,_ — -_^- — ^ ^ ^ , 

1 teaspoon of mustard and tablespoon of melted butter. Spread 

between white bread. — Mrs. D. O. White. 



36 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. I, CCXJK BOOK 



i','? 



'"a 



>•■-«■•»- 114* 



"QUALITY FIRSP' IS OUR MOTTO 

W. C. Barons 

General Merchant 
Belmont - Ontario 

Groceries, Drygoods, Hardware, Meats; Neal's Bread 

Silverwood's Ice Cream 

Gasoline and Oils; Firestone Ties^— Sterling Shoes 

^ Dominion Rubbers 

HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR EGGS & POULTRY 



■■•— es^iiis ■■■■I 



-iSi^M -■■' 



W. A. Hunt 

Home Furnishings 

— and — 

Director of Funeral Service 



BELMONT, ONT., Phone D-37 



Personal Attention Day or Night 



\c:. .. .••V. i(, 



■■■■MM ■■ 



KINr.SMIl 1^ MAPI.ETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



87 



Rolled Celery Sandwiches 

Cut \ inch slices of white bread from a fresh moist loaf. 
Remove crusts an ' spread with butter. Meanwhile cut stalks of 
cleaned celery into leng^ths equal to the width of the bread 
slices. Fill these stalks with cream cheese. Place a stalk at each 
slice of bread and roll like a jelly roll. Roll all the sandwiches 
in a damp napkin and place in a cool place for a few hours. The 
rolls should keep their shape. — Mrs. Wm. Orris. 



-/«.■ 



Bacon and Cheese Sandwiches 

Butter white bread. Spread liberally with erated cheese. 
Add a layer of thin crisp bacon. Top with a second slice of but- 
tered bread and press together. These are delicious toasted. 
Mrs. Sam Garton. 

Salad and Salad Dressings 



Salad Combinations 

* 

Cabbage, celery and pimento. 

Cabbage pineapple and marshmallows. 

Peas, carrots and celery. 

Bananas, stoned cherries, boiled dressing. 

Sliced peaches, yellow plums, nuts. 

Orange and Spanish onion. 

Chopped hard boiled eggs and carrots. 

Celery, creamed cheese and nuts. 

Cabbage and chopped peanuts. 

Salmon, celery and sweet peppers. 

Mrs. Roy McGregor and Mrs. O. Derrough 



Chicken Salad 

Boil or steam chicken until tender. When cold chop fine 
and season. Add crisp celery which has been chopped in the 
proportion of i cup celery to 1 cup of chicken. Serve with 
salad dressing. 

Dressing — 1 level teaspoon of flour, 1 tablespoon of 
butter, 1 cup of milk. Bring to a boil and set it where it will 
keep warm. Mix dry 3 tablespoons of sugar, ^ teaspoon salt, ^ 
teaspoon of mustard, add two eggs and beat all together. Add 
gradually 1 small ^ cup of vinegar. Add this to the cream 
sauce and boil for a few minutes, stirring constantly. — Mrs. 
Archie Ferguson, , , ,i > . -; 



38 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



Manhattan Salrd 

i.. 

Chop apples, celery and walnuts. Make lemon or orange 
jelly. Pour over whole. Let set. Break with a fork. Serve on 
individual plates on a lettuce leaf. Pour salad dressing over it. 
— Mrs. Eugene Sweet. 

Cranberry Salad 

Half envelope of gelatine. 1 pint of cranberries, two- 
thirds cup celery diced, 1-3 cup chopped nut meats, 1^ cups 
cold water, 1 cup of sugar and a dash of salt. Cook cranberries 
in 1 cup water for 20 minutes. Stir in sugar and cook 5 minutes. 
Add the gelatine which has been softened in ^ cup cold water. 
Stir in the celery and nuts and turn into mould that has been 
rinsed in cold water. Chill. Cut in squares and cover with salad 
dressing. — Mrs. John Smith. 

Waldorf Salad 

Two cups chopped apples, 2 cups chopped celery, some 
walnuts broken not too small. A very little cayenne. Mix with 
salad dressing and serve on lettuce. — Grace Charlton. 

Perfection Salad 

One package Knox sparkling gelatine, ^ cup cold water ; 
^ cup vinegar, 1 pint of boiling water, 1 teaspoon of salt, 1 
cup shredded cabbage, juice of 1 lemon, ^ cup sugar, 2 cups of 
celery cut small, 1 can pimento. Soak the gelatine in cold 
water for 5 minutes and add lemon juice, vinegar, boiling 
water, salt and sugar. Let cool. When partly stiff add remain- 
ing '"ngredients. Mould and serve on lettuce with sHces of 
studied olives. — Mrs. D. O. White. 



Banana Salad 

Slice bananas lengthwise and dip into dressing. Then in 
ground nuts and serve on lettuce leaves. 

Dressing — 2 tablespoons sugar, 2 eggs, (well beaten), 1 
large tablespoon of butter, pinch of salt. When cooked and 
cooled, add 2 tablespoons of sweet cream. — Mrs. H. Peer. 



Fruit Salad 

One cup of pineapple, 1 cup cherries, a few green grapes, 
2 bananas, 1 orange, ^ ppund of marshmallows cut up, i cup 
whipped cream with a little sugar added to it. Mix all together 
and serve on lettuce. — Mrs. Harry Cloes. 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



39 



Butterfly Salad 

Cut pineapple slices in half. Turn each half over so that 
the outside of the circles are touching. This forms the pairs 
of wings. Select lettuce leaves of even size and slip one under 
each slice of pineapple. Stone a date and use it for the body. 
Cut feelers from candied peel and place in position. Cut thin 
slices from stuffed olives and place on wings to make spots. 
Put a spoonful of fluffy dressing beside each butterfly. — Mrs, 
Eardly Finch. 



Crab Meat Salad 

One can crab meat flaked, 1 bunch of celery cut in small 
pieces. 1 small Spanish onion, minced, 1 can of pimentoes cut 
in narrow strips, salt and papper and enough mayonna'se to 
hold it together. Serve on a lettuce leaf. Tuna fish may be used 
the same. 



M 
m 

m 

'■}i 



Veal Salad 

One head of lettuce, 1 cup celery, 1 cup peanvits (ground). 
2 pounds of lean veal (cooked), 6 large apples. Mince the 
veal. Chop celery and apples. Mix all together. Use lettuce for 
garnishing. Season with salt, pepper, sugar and paprika. Serve 
with salad dressing. — Mrs. S. Curtis, 

Marguerite Salad 

Hard boiled eggs divided into eighths lengthwise. Separate 
yolks from whites and arrange whites on a bed of lettuce to 
represent a daisy. Mix yolks well with salad dressing and 
drop in centre of the whites. — Mrs. H. Peer. 

Pear Salad 

Drain pears, arrange on lettuce. Mix ^ teaspoon salt, \ 
teaspoon paprika, 1 tablespoon of powdered sugar, 2 table- 
spoons vinegar, 4 tablespoons olive oil or melted butter, ^ cup 
soft grated cheese. Mix thoroughly by beating and pour over 
pears. — Mrs. Don McGregor. 



Hot Potato Salad 

Boil 6 large potatoes, drain and chop. Add f cup cream 
(either sweet or sour), | cup vinegar, 1 large onion chopped, 
salt and pepper and minced parsley if the flavor of parsley is 
liked. As soon as it is again hot it is ready to serve. — Mrs. 
Don McGregor. 



! 



40 



KlNCrSMrLL-WAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK" 



«!"► 



■M^ I KM^—MI ■■ ■■» 



Aylmer Garage 
Phone 207 



Aylmer Service Station 
Phone 164 



Aylmer Garage do. 

Automobiles and Accessories 

"STAR CARS" 

Courteous Treatment to All 



i 



m At III I ir «r nil m i ■■ "- "• ' " ■ ' ~ "* -- — — ^ 



Vair & Balkwill 

Wholesale Manufacturers of 
ICE-CREAM and HOME-MADE CANDIES 

323 Talbot Street Phone 653 

ST. THOMAS, ONT, 



Arnolds Markets 

MEATS, PROVISIONS GROCERIES 
FRESH FISH 

(The Markets that set the Pace) 

WE DELIVER PHONE 436 

Arnolds Bros. Ltd., St. Thomas 



Frank A. Tier 

Ford Specialist 

10 Princess Ave., St Thomas 









KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. -1. COOK BOOK 



41 



^ . CheenM Fingers to Serve with Salad 

Cut -stale tread in narrow strips, baste with melted butter. 
Holl in g^^rated cheese and toasted in a hot oven. — .Mrs, Wm, 
Orris. 

Potato Salad 

Slice 2 qiiciTts cold "boiled potato tine, one large onion 
•chopped, 1 cucimiber, 1 bunch ol celery and 3 hard l^oiled eggs, 
.•all chopped. Mix with any good dressing and ^erve with whip- 
ped cream. — JMrs. H. Peer, 

•^ ' ' ' 

Shrinip Salad 

To 1 can of shrimp add 1 cup of chopped celery, 3 hard 
boiled eggs, and a few walnuts. Pour salad dressing over all 
just before serving. Rinse shrimps in ice water before using 
and be sure to have all thoroughly chilled. Serve on lettuce. — 
Myrtle B. Charlton. 

Vegetable Ring 

Half envelope Knox gelatine, ^ cup cold wateT, J cup boil- 
ing water, I cup sugar, | cup vinegar, 2 tablespoons leinoft 
juice, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 cup chopped celery, ^ cup chopped 
cabbabe, ^ cup chopped carrots {cooked), ^ cup peas. Soak 
gelatine in cold water five minutes then dissolve in boiling 
water. Add sugar, vinegar, lemon juice and salt. Strain, cool 
and when mixture starts to thicken add vegetables. Turn into 
mould, first dipped in cold water and chill. — Mrs, O, Derrough^ 

Mayonnaise Dressing 

On« egg yolk, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon mustard, 2 
tablespoons vinegar, 1 tablespoon lemon juice, ^ pound tin of 
salad oil. Beat the egg yolks. Add salt and mustard. Beat in a 
few drops of vinegar, then about 4 drops of oil. Beat well 
using a dover beater. Then a few more drop of vinegar and a 
few more drops of oil. Repeat until you have used a couple of 
tablespoons of oil. (This is the most important point of the 
success of the dressing.) You can now begin to add the oil 
in a thin stream beating constantly. When all the oil and 
vinegar have been used add the lemon juice. This will keep 
for a long time in a cool place in an ordinary jar. — Mrs. Don. 
McGregor. 



i 



A small paint brush is excellent for greasing a cake pan. 



42 



KINGSMILI^MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



Salmon and Celery Salad 

Use equal parts of salmon, celery and cabbage. Chop the 
three fine. Mix with dressing, garnish with chopped pickles. — 
Mrs. D. O. White. 

Salad Dressmgr 

Three large tablespoons granulated sugar, 1 small tea- 
spoon mustard. 1 large teaspoon flour, 1 tablespoon butter, f 
cup sweet milk, 1 e^gg. Mix sugar, flour, mustard together; 
beat tgg in cup ; add dry ingredients, also milk and pinch of 
pepper. Cook until thick. Add f cup vinegar. Bring to boil. Stir 
smooth and last of all add \ teaspoon salt. — Mrs. J. W. John- 
son. 

Thousand Island Salad Dressing 

One pint mayonnaise dressing, 1 hard boiled ^g'g chopped 
fine, 1 teaspoon chopped onion, 1 tablespoon chop|>ed nuts, 1 
tablespoon chopped parsley, 4 tablespoons chili sauce. Mix 
well. Add chili sauce last. — Myrtle B. Charlton. 

Uncooked Salad Dressing 

One can Eagle Brand milk, 3 eggs, 1 cup of vinegar, \ 
teaspoon of mustard, 1 teaspoon salt. — Mrs. S. Smith. 

Salad Dressing 

One tablespoon flour, \ cup butter, 3 eggs, \ teaspoon 
mustard, \ cup sugar, 1 cup sweet milk, \ cup vinegar, pinch 
each of cayenne pepper and salt. Mix flour and butter well, 
add ^%g wolks, mustard, sugar, salt, pepper, vinegar, and 
lastly milk. Cook until thick, stirring constantly. After it is 
cooked add egg whites which have been beaten until stitf. — 
Mrs. H. Peer. 



Salad Dressing Without Cooking 

One large can condensed milk, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon each of 
salt and mustard. 1^ cups white wine vinegar, sugar to taste. 
Beat all together and keep in covered jar. — Mrs. Don 
McGregor. 



Salad Dressing 



T„ 



o eggs. 



1 cup sugar, 1 cup vinegar, 1 cup sweet milk. 
Cook till hot and add lurnp of butter, 1 teaspoon mustard and 
3 teaspoons cornstarch. — Mr? John Chute.. ., rv;i:-^' 



KINGSMILI^MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



,43. 



Pickles and Relishes 



Mustard Pickles 

Five quarts cucumbers, 2 quarts small onions, and 1 large 
cauliflower. Soak over night in salt and water. To 1 gal. vine- 
gar add 1 oz. tumeric, 1 oz. celery seed and 6 cups yellow 
sugar. Put on stove and when scalding hot add onions and let 
boil ^ an hour. Then add ^ lb. mustard and 2 cups flour each 
mixed with a little vinegar to form thin paste. Add these to 
fornjer ingredients and when it has thickened put in cucum- 
bers and cauliflower, and cook very gently till they are heated 
through. — Mrs. Walter Moore. 



ta 



m 



Queen of Pickles 

. Two quarts of cucumbers, onions and green tomatoes 
chopped fine. Soak over night in salt and water. Drain and 
add the following dressing — 2 quarts vinegar, 3 lbs. gran, 
sugar, ^ oz. tumeric, 1 cup mustard, 1 cup flour. Bring to a 
boil and pour over pickles. — Mrs. Jas. G. Campbell. 



Sweet Mustard Pickles 

Three quarts cucumbers, 3 quarts onions, 2 small cauli- 
flowers, 6 green sweet peppers, 1 hot red pepper, 2 heads of 
celery. Cut fine, cover with hot brine, let stand over night, 
drain and add 2 quarts vinegar, 8 cups sugar, 4 ozs. white 
mustard seed, 4 oz. celery seed. Let this come to a boil with the 
first ingredients. Make a paste of : | cup flour, ^ lb. mustard 
and i oz. tumeric with vinegar. Add this paste slowly to the 
boiling pickles and boil three minutes or till the vinegar 
thickens. — Myrtle Paddon. 



^ Clumped Pickles 

One quart each of large cucumbers, onions and apples and 
3 red peppers. Chop fine, salt and do not drain. One quart 
small onions and one large cauiflower broken in small pieces. 
Put these in different dishes, sprinkle with salt, let stand over 
night and drain. 1^ quarts vinegar, 8 cups brown sugar, i lb. 
white mustard seed. Let come to a boil. Make paste of | cup 
flour, 4 lb. mustard, ^ oz. tumeric. Add slowly, stir quickly and 
add pickles. Let simmer 10 or 15 minutes and stir continually 
to keep from scorching. — Mrs. W. H. Legg. .. . .. .v,. 



.,ii^ 



44 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



♦- 



■il 1 1 ■■ II I ■■ ■■ ■■ I MM ■■ U 



Elgin Garage 

BUICK AND PONTIAC CARS 
WHITE ROSE GASOLINE RFPAIRS ON ALL CARS 

All Size* of Tires Carried in Stock 



-O- 



J. £• Lindsay & Son 



^M [■■W— 



W. H. Candy 

Dealer in Fresh Eggs and Live Poultry 
Also Feed Stable and Standing Bam for Horses 

Water Street, Aylmer PHONE 291 



mftm^^m M.^iH— ; 



The Home of 

REXALL REMEDIES 

A guaranteed Remedy for every ill 
The Rexall Line consists of 

The Pure Test Label in Powder and Liquid Form, Rubber 
Goods, Pharmaceuticals, Toilet Goods 

When you want the best — Come here and say "Rexall" 

J. E. RICHARDS & CO. 

PHONE 83. Aylmer, Out. 

*■■■ ■■■■■ ■■ I »>■ ■ ■■■■jgi^Wi ■#■■■■■■ I W illi ■■■ I Mil i>iiii M i»"iil|i ■■■■ !■■■■■■»— ■■! ll»« H ii ■■■iitiM- 

Penhale's Boot Shop 

QUALITY FOOTWEAR AT REASONABLE 

PRICES 

3 Doors East of City Hall 

ST. THOMAS, ONT. 



■ M ■■■ iii1M» 



■*■ ■ ■■ ■! 



•♦ 



- _ „;» V" 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. 1. COOK BOOK 



45 



YeDow Pickle 

One dozen large onions, 2 large cauliflowers, 1 quart large 
cucumbers peeled and chopped and 2 bunches celery. Chop all 
fine. Sprinkle with salt, let stand over night and then drain 
thoroughly. Make a dressing of 2 lbs. brown sugar, 3 pts. 
vinegar, 1 tablespoon tumeric, 6 tablespoons mustard, 2 ozs, 
mustard seed. Pinch of cayenne and 1 cup flour . Cook till 
th.ck, add pickles and cook 15 minutes. — Mrs, Skene Smith, 



Pcsiiper Relisli 

12 sweet red peppers, 12 sweet green peppers, 8 large 
onions, 2 heads of celery. Cover with boiling water and let 
stand ten minutes. Drain and cover again with water. Let it 
come to a boil and drain dry. Add 1 quart vnegar, 1 table- 
spoon salt and 2 cups gran, sugar. Boil 15 minutes and seal, — 
Myrtle M. Paddon, 

Meat Relish 

Two quarts cucumbers peeled and seeds removed 5 qts, 
cabbage, 1 doz, onions, 2 qts, cauliflower, 1 qt. small cucum- 
bers, 2 qts. green tomatoes, 1 qt. celery. Chop all fine and then 
add 1 cup salt. Let stand over night and drain. Combine the 
following to make a dressing — 1 gal. vinegar, 7 cups white 
sugar, ^ cup mustard, 1 cup flour, ^ oz. tumeric. Cook dressing, 
add vegetables and cook until tender. — Mrs, O. Charlton. 

Sweet Pepper Jelly 

Twelve sweet peppers ground. Cover with 1 tablespoon 
salt and let stand 3 or 4 hours. Drain and add 1 pt. vinegar and 
3 cups gran, sugar. Boil gently 1 hour. — Mrs. John Smith. 

Pepper Relish 

One large cabbage, 2 doz. onions, 1 doz. green peppers. 
Put through grinder. Add i cup salt and let stand 12 hours. 
Drain. Add i cup mustard seed, 1 tablespoon celery seed, 1 
ib. gran, sugar. Cover with vinegar, seal or leave open. — Maud 
Bray. 

Old Mission Relish 

Eight quarts tomatoes, 1 cup ground horseradish root, 1 
cup chopped celery, 1 cup chopped onions, 1 cup sugar, 4 
tablespoons white mustard seed, ^ cup salt, 4 peppers, 4 cups 
vinegar, 1 tablespoon celery salt. Peel the tomatoes, chop and 



11 
m 



3- 



•\r." 



46 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



lll^l V 






^^^H 




Shapcott & Parkins 


1 ^^^H 


i 


(Opposite Loblawt) 




BUTCHERS AND PROVISION MERCHANTS 




PHONE 1914 


' I^^h' 




WHERE ONE DOLLAR DOES THE WORK OF TWO 


: lH^R - 




WE DELIVER 


i]i^H|' ' 


1 


572 Talbot St., St. Thomas 




t 






HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR 


1 


i 


Churning Cream, Also for Eggs 




Give Uft a Trial and be Convinced 






SlThomas City Dairy 


H 




PHONE 946 


H 


^ 


12-14 SL Catharines Street 


■ 




^^■•..■>' ■/'.■-' ■■■.r^'-i" ■ ' 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



47 



mix with all other ingredients. Fr t into sterilized fruit jars. — 
Mrs. Jas. Legg. 

India Relish 

One peck green tomatoes, 6 onions, 1 small cabbage, 3 
green s.veet peppers, 3 red sweet peppers. 2 hot peppers. 8 
cups sugar, 3 qts. vinegar, 1 cup salt> 2 tablespoons each of 
celery, coriander seed, mustard seed, cloves and stick cinna- 
mon. Put spices in a bag. Chop tomatoes, salt and let stand 
over night. Drain, add cabbage and peppers, chopped fine. 
Cook 30 minutes, add onions, spices and sugar and cook until 
onions are tender. — Mrs. John Bray. 

Uncooked Pickles 

Boil J gal. vinegar. 5 cups brown sugar. 1 package mixed 
spice. When cool stir in 4 tablespoons mustard and 1 teaspoon 
tumeric. Put cucumbers in brine over night. Drain dry and 
put in the mixture. Put in a crock and stir every day for 3 
weeks. — Ethel Mclntyre. 

Cold Pickles 

Half gal. Heinz or XXX vinegar (cold), ^ cup mustard, 
10c saccharine, 2 cups brown sugar, ^ cup salt. Add pickles as 
gathered and stir well often. — Mrs. A. Moore. 

Cold Pickles 

Wash and then wipe dry 300 gherkins. Place in large crock 
and sprinkle f cup of salt through them. Cover with boiling 
water and let stand till next day. Take from brine and vv^ipe 
dry. Put them back in dry crock and add -J gal. cold vinegar, 
4 tablespoons each of mustard, salt and granulated sugar and 
i cup mixed pickling spice and root ginger. Weigh out 3 lbs. 
sugar and each morning add a handful of it to the pickles and 
stir well. Do this as long as the sugar lasts and then pickles 
are ready for use. Keep in a cool place. — Mrs. Angus Miller. 

Stingy Pickles 

Seven qts. cucumbers, 2 qts. small onions, 3 pts. vinegar, 
1 tablespoon tumeric, 1 tablespoon celery seed, 3 cups. gran, 
sugar. Put cucumbers in salt water over night. Add onions 
next day. Put all in kettle together. Let come to a boil and 
put in cans. — Mrs. W. Kunz 

-' ^',- . ' ' . ' 4 

/'' To prevent old potatoes from discolouring when cooked, 
add a slice of lemon. . " 



•,--* -■'■' 



i::- . 



4S 



KINdSMfLL-MAPLETON W. I. C'CK)K BOOK 






—GO TO— 

Currans 

For 
SEMI-TRIMMED SUNWORTHY WALLPAPERS 

and VICTOR GOODS 
327 Talbot Street ST. THOMAS. ONT. 



-«ii^— »— 



Grimmett's 

"CLASSIC B/JCERY" 



777 Talbot Street 167 Ross Street 

Phone 1138 ' Phone 2214 

ST. THOMAS, ONT, 

WE DELIVER 



ST. THOMAS BARGAIN STORE 

The Woollen Mills Store 

^V Bargains for Men. Women and ChiHren 

NEW BARGAINS EVERY DAY 
651 TaH>ot Street ST. THOMAS, ONT. 



689 Talbot Street, St. Tbomas Phone 1340 

K. W. and H. T. Pincombe 

MEATS AND PROVISIONS 
Poultry and Vegetables in Season 

Delivery to any part of the city at any time. Just Phone 



- ■ »«. u n 



^:. 



KlN(;SMlLL-MAPLETf)N W. t. COOK BOOK 



49 



Dill Pickles 

Soak whole large cucumbers in a brine of 1 cup of salt and 

1 gal. water for 5 clays. Rinse in cold water and pour over with 
boiling water. Let stand over night. Cut in \ slices and lay 
in layers alternately with horseradish leaves and pour over 
with boiling alum water (1 tables])oon alum to a gal. water). 
Let stand over night. Drain and then cover with clear boiling 
water. Let stand 2 hours and then cnver after draining, with 
the following syruj) — 12 cups white sugar. 5c celery seed. 10c 
stick cinnamon, 1 gal. vinegar. Put this on the pickles boiling 
hot for two successive mornings and the third morning seal. — 
Mrs. Ed. Holmes. 

Tomato Butter 

Seven lbs. ripe tomatoes, 12 large onions, 3 sour apples, 

2 lbs. brown sugar. 4 teaspoons salt, 1 teaspoon cayenne and 
1 qt. vinegar. Boil till quite thick, two hours or longer. — Mrs. 
Harry does. 

Nine Day Pickles 

Four quarts cucumbers cut up and put in strong brine 
for 3 days. Then freshen for 3 days, putting fresh water on 
each day. Then cover with weak vinegar and cook slowly or 
simmer for an hour with a piece of alum the size of a walnut. 
Drain. Make a syrup of 3 lbs. white sugar. 3 pts. vinegar, 1 
oz. allspice buds, 1 oz. cinnamon buds. Put pickles in crock 
and pour hot syrup over them for 3 days in succession, (drain 
and reheat each day.) If desired some chiles may be added or 
some red peppers. — Mrs. Clarence Rogers. 

Spiced Tomatoes 

Five lbs. ripe tomatoes, peeled and halved, 3 lbs. brown 
sugar. 1 pint cider vinegar, 1 stick cinnamon, | doz. cloves. 
Boil sugar until like taflfy. Add tomatoes and boil till thick. — 
Mrs. Roy McGregor. 

Com Relish 

Cut the corn from 18 ears, 4 onions, 2 green peppers, 1 
small head of cabbage, ^ cup salt. Boil in 2 qts. vinegar for 20 
minutes. Ma'.e a paste of I lb. ground mustard, 3 large cups 
sugar. ^ cup ilour, ^ teaspoon tumeric. Mix together and cook 
a few minutes. — Mrs. Clarence Rogers. 

Com and Tomato Relish 

Twelve ears corn cut fine, 2 qts. ripe tomatoes measured 
after they are chopped, 1 qt. large cucumbers peeled and 
chopped, 6 medium onions chopped fine, 3 red peppers, chop- 



■m^^' 



'." w-^:- 



-^ *s 



i .#■ 



i 



b«i ■ 



50 



KIN(7SM[Lf--MAI'l.EV()N W. I. C^HJK B()(1K 



J. L. Thayer & Son, Ltd. 

Oil Dealers 

GASOLINE, COAL-OIL, HIGH-GRADE MOTOR 
AND TRACTOR OILS 

Satisfaction Guaranteed 



'( I li^— w ii ■!■■■ I'lii*- 



■ li III !■ IP ■ 




EyestrainCausesHeadacnes 

Have your Ryes examined by a 
Steele Government Registered Opto- 



metrist. 



F. STEELE, Ltd. 



St. Thomas' Leading Optometriato 
Two Doors East City Hall 

London, St. Thomas, Kitchener, Stratford, Guelph, Windsor 



wKl w i»||M» ■»■ !■«- 



*■■ iiiiM<^» 



♦- 



■■■■■HSMB ■■■ Mm turn 



GROCERIES. MEATS, ETC. 

Good Groceries here, the whole long year, from sugar clear to 

beans, 
Right here's the store with good> galore, from gingersnaps to 

greens. 
Our goods in cans are high class brands, our ketchup up-to-date 
Cracker?, cakes and breakfast flakes, and candy something great. 
Eggs ar.d rice and cloves and spice, and coffee that is freshly 

ground, 

Raisins, peas, soap, prunes and cheese, and butter by the pound. 

Yeast and fruits, the kind that suits, we keep the best on earth, 

Select the stock that none an knock, and get your money's iworth, 

RIGHT HERE1 WHY NOT? 

Aylmer, Ont. 



R L. CHARLTON. 



KINGSMILI^MAPLETON W. I. COOK B(y:)K 



51 



l)e(l, 1 (|t. vinegar, 1 qt. sugar, 1 tablespoon mustard. 1 table- 
spoon celery seed, 1 tablespoon tumeric, i cup salt. Boil 2 
hours and stir often. Recipe makes 5 qts. 

Gooseberry Sauce 

Take 9 lbs. gooseberries nearly ripe. Remove the stems 
and put into a preserving kettle with 4J lbs. sugar and 3 cups 
of hot vinegar and spice to taste. Boil until thick. — Mrs. Harry 
Cloes. 

Fruit Sauce 

Thirty ripe tomatoes, 6 large onions, 6 large pears, 6 
large peaches, 6 teaspoons salt, 3 cups vinegar, 2 red peppers, 
5 cups white sugar, 5c package pickling spices. Boil 3 hours. 
— Mrs. Eugene Sweet. 

■D 

Worchetter Sauce 

Twenty-four ripe tomatoes, 6 onions, 5 red peppers, 3 
garlics, 1 bunch celery, 1 tablespoon cloves, 1 tablespoon all- 
spice. 1 tablespoon cinnamon, i cup salt. Boil together until 
soft. Put through sieve and add 2 cups brown sugar, ^ cup 
mustard, 1 qt. vinegar. Cook | of an hour. Put onions, peppers, 
celery and garlic through food grinder. — Mrs. Clarence 
Garton. 

Tom^io Cream Sauce 

Twelve ripe tomatoes, 12 onions, 12 apples, 3 peppers, 3 
cups brown sugar. 2 cups vinegar, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 
teaspoon ground cloves. Cut tomatoes up fine, put onions, 
apples and peppers through grinder. Simmer for 4 hours. — 
Mrs. Sam Garton. 

Pickled Peart or Peaches 

Remove skins from fruit and cut in halves. Stick 2 whole 
cloves in each piece of fruit and cook in a syrup made by boil- 
ing together for 20 minutes 2 lbs. brown sugar, 1 qt. vinegar 
and 1 oz. stick cinnamon. This amount of syrup will cook 
about a peck of fruit. Cook only a small quantity at a time. — 
Mrs. H. Peer. 

Tomato Catsup 

One bus. ripe tomatoes, 8 large onions, 1 cup salt, 1 qt. 
vinegar. Cook tomatoes and onions till tender and press 
through a sieve. Place on stove and add vinegar, sugar to 
taste and cook for 2 hours. Moisten ^ cup cornstarch with 
water and add to the juice. When tnick remove from fire and 
add Parke's catsup flavour. This will keep indefinitely and 
keep its natural colour. — Mrs. Skene Smith. 



fc 



r: 



52 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



r0- 



J. G. Palmer & Co. 

COAL, COKE AND WOOD 

Try Us with Your Next Order 

PHONES: Office 2462; Residence 2220 
Office, Cor. Balaclava and Talbot Street, SL Thomas 



mtt'^mtM^mmmtttm 



■^■■■■wu— Hm^-Hm— WW— Hw- — iia^— bh- 



For Quality Groceries 

AT RIGHT PRICES TRY 

Reeks & Co. 



o 



Phones 1684^1685 Deliveries all over the City 

ST. THOMAS, ONT. 



mil ■■!! ■ti»^mi UK KHi^^iHwi^mil* 



FOR GOOD pies, Cakes and Tarts, everyone should have the 
best of fillings to make these tarts riglit, and of course you get 
them at Hamilton & Fuller's, Aylmer's Leading Grocery store. We 
also have a full line of Cured and Smoked Meats and Fresh 
Vegeta'bles. 

Our Own Delivery at all hours. 

Hamilton & Fuller 



PHONE A-283 



AYLMER, ONT. 



— MW^— BHi ■ n mi.— tm-^iin- 



The Dominion Bank 

ST. THOMAS 

Constructive aid extended to the Farming Industry 
Savings Department. Safety Deposit Boxes. 



West End Branch 
P. C. Marsh, Mgr. 



East End Branch 
A. E. Brown, Mgr. 



I ■■ M^lt ■■.■ 



I m -■«—»» 



1 .^AJii; i4fe^;> _ 



.,^'::i',- 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. 1. COOK BOOK 



53 



Chili Sauce 

One peck ripe tomatoes, ^ peck onions, 4 hot green 
peppers. 4 sweet green peppers 4 cups sugar, 1 qt. vinegar, 2 
tablespoons whole cloves, 2 sticks cinnamon, 1 tablepoon celery 
seed. (Put spices in a bag.) 1 teaspoon tumeric, 3 tablespoons 
flour, salt to taste. Put onions and peppers through chopper. 
Chop tomatoes, add vinegar and spices and cook until onions 
are cooked. Add flour mixed with a little vinegar about 15 
minutes before sauce is done. — Mrs. A. Moore. 

Green Toirato Chili Sauce 

Nineteen green tomatoes and 10 onions. Cut up. Salt and 
let stand over night 4 large apples and 3 red peppers chopped 
fine, 3 cups gran, sugar, 7 cups vinegar, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 
1 teaspoon cloves. Cook 4 hours and stir often to prevent 
burning. — Mrs. O, Charlton. 

Bordeaux Sauce 

Eighteen green tomatoes, 1 cabbage, 10 onions, 1 cup salt. 
Let stand 1 hr. and drain. Put in kettle with \ oz. tumeric, \ 
oz. curry powder, I oz. mustard seed, ^ oz. celery seed, 2 lbs. 
brown sugar, 2 qts. vinegar. Boil until thick. — Mrs. H. Peer. 



Crabapple Catsup 

Peel and quarter 2 qts. crabapples and 3 large onions chop- 
ped fine. Stew tender in as little water as possible and then 
press through a s>'ve. To 1 qt. of apples add 2 cups of sugar, 
2 teaspoons each of pepper, cloves and cinnamon, 2 tablespoons 
salt, vinegar enough to cover. Boil 1 hour slowly. — Mrs. J. 
Drake, 

Grape Catsup 

Five lbs. grapes boiled in a very little water. Put through 
colander. Add 3 lbs. brown sugar, 1 pt. vinegar, 1 talbespoon 
cinnamon, ^ tablespoon salt. Boil until thick and seal. — Mrs. 
J . A. Evert. 

Picklecl Sweet Apples or Pears 

Seven lbs. fruit, 2 lbs. brown sugar, 1 qt. vinegar, 2 ozs. 
cassia buds. Cook fruit in syrup till tender.— Mrs. J. A. Evert. 

Mock Olives 

Take green plums before they start to ripen and cover 



thcUl Witii OOiiiilg SOiUtion Oi ViiiCgtii, 



11 ali-t iiiuaiatv;! av^s.u. 



Let stand over night, drain. Boil the vinegar again and add to 
the plums. — Myrtle Charlton. 



ii 



iS"; 



l! i 



I 



ii ' 



li ^ 






54 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



W ■■■■■» ■■— ■■■■ W II M —- M — ■ ■■■»■ ■■■ 



» »— ^M— ||, 



Elgin-Middlesex Farmer, Ltd. 

Dealers in 
Grain, Coal, Salt, Flour, Feed, Lumber, Lath and Shingles 
Agents for Frost Woven Fence and Canada Cement Co. 
GRINDING AND ROLLING every day 



■i M M ■■ ■■■ ■■ ■■ [■■■■■■■^^M — M I ■■^^11 n - 



Bruce Brown 

"MAPLETON STORE" 

Dry Goods, Groceries. Boots and Shoes, Hardware 

and Salt. Local and Long Distance Trucking 

Malahide Tel. 28-r-98 Belmont Tel. 4113 



George E. Faulds 

Belmont Butcher 

We carry a full line of Fresh and Cured Meats 
Fish in Season 
The best available quality always on hand. 
Buyer of Live Stock of all kinds. 



Canadian Countryman 

Weekly— $1.00 Per Year 

Canadian Coutryman enjoys the distinction of having 25 

p.c. larger circulation than that of any other weekly 

magazine of any kind published in Canada. 

Net Paid Circulation Over 62,000 Weekly 

THE CANADIAN COUNTRYMAN 

204 Richmond St. West, Toronto 



■:'-':i:^. 



fiE 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. 1. COOK B(X)K 



55 



Pickled Peaches 

To a lb. of fruit take ^ cup of vinegar and 1 cup sugar. 
Boil. Add layer of fruit and cook till tender. Remove fruit and 
add another layer, till all the fruit is used. If desired, cloves 
may be stuck in the fruit before cooking and cinnamo sticks 
added to the syrup. — Mrs. Clarence Rogers. 

Spiced Grapes 

Pulp grapes, boil pulp 5 minutes, strain to take out seeds. 
Put skins ana pulp together and to 7 lbs. of grapes, add 5 lbs. 
sugar. 1 teaspoon ground cloves. 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 pt. 
vinegar and 1 tablespoon whole cloves and 2 sticks cinna- 
mon. (Put spices in a bag.) Cook till it jellies which will be 
about an hour. — Mrs. A. Moore. 

Spiced Currants 

Nine 'i 'd currants. 4^ lbs. raisins, 4^ lbs. sugar, 3 cups 
vinegar. ? 'spoons allspice, 3 tablespoons cinnamon and 

li teaspowa;; cloves. Boil until thick. — Myrtle Charlton. 

Tomato Relish 

Nineteen green tomatoes. 10 onions, 4 large apples, 4 
cups sugar, 4 cups vinegar, 3 red peppers, 3 green peppers. 
Ground cloves and cinnamon to taste. Cook slowly two hours. 
— Edith Lowther. 

Green Cucumber Pickles 

Six quarts cucumbers covered over night with cold water 
and 1 cup of salt. Drain and wash with clear water. Heat 1 
qt. strong vinegar, 1^ qts. water, 3 cups brown sugar, 2 
heaping teaspoons of spice. When this boils add cucumbers 
and when heated well bottle tightly. — Mrs. D. R. McTaggart. 

Maryland Relish 

One quart green tomatoes, 2 quarts cabbage, 5 onions, 2 
teaspoons tumeric, 3 red peppers, 1 qt. vinegar, 2 cups sugar, 
I tablespoon mustard seed, 2 tablespoons salt, ^ tablespoon 
allspice. Slice tomatoes thin and let stand over night i'l salted 
water. In morning drain and add thinly cut cabbage and pep- 
pers and onions. Put vinegar in preserving kettle ; add sugar, 
spices, tumeric and then vegetables. Scald thoroughly and seal. 
—Mrs. D, R. McTaggart. 



m 



If a lamp smokes, dry the wick and soak it in vinegar 
before putting in oil. 



IM 




56 



KINCSMILL-MAPLETON VV. 1. COOK BOOK 



Alma 
College 



St. Thonms 



Residential and Day 

School for Girls 

Affiliated with the University of Western 

Ontario 

Collegiate, Secretarial, Music, 
Dramatics, Home Economies, 
Art and Physical Education. 



Pupils may begin at any time. 



For Prospectus apply to The Principal. 



I I ■■ ■ ■ I W I I ■■ MM m l 



wmw^^tnl^ 



rf-r -W. 



KIXOSMILL-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



57 



Puddings, Desserts and Sauces 



o- 



Spanish Cream 

One envelope Knox sparkling gelatine, 3 eggs, 1 table- 
spoon vanilla, 1 qt. milk, 8 tablespoons sugar. Soak gelatine in 
milk, put over fire and stir until dissolved. Add yolks of eggs 
and 4 tablespoons sugar well beaten. Stir until it comes to a 
boil, remove from fire, have whites beaten with 4 tablespoons 
sugar. Add whites to first mixture stirring briskly until well 
mixed. Flavour and turn into a mould. — Mrs. Ed. Legg. 

Banana Cream 

Dissolve a package of lemon Jell-O in 1 pt. of boiling 
water. When cold beat to consistency of whipped cream. Then 
add i cup sugar, 1 cup whipped cream, 3 bananas chopped, ^ 
cup merachino cherries chopped, ^ doz. macaroons broken 
fine; Add fruit last and turn into a mould to harden. — Mrs. 
Arch. Ferguson. 

Pineapple Pudding 

Half a lb. marshmallows either plain or toasted, 1 small 
can pineapple, J teaspoon vanilla, 1 cup whipping cream and 
maraschino cherries. Dice the pineapple and marshmallows. 
Pour pineapple juice over them and let them stand one hour. 
Just before serving stir in the whipped cream. Serve in sher- 
bet glasses garnished with a cherry. — Edith McGregor. 

Pineapple Bavarian Cream 

Two tablespoons gelatine, 1 tablespoon lemon juice, 3 cups 
whipped cream, 1 can sliced pineapple (cut), | cup cold water, 
i cup sugar. Soak gelatine in cold water for five minutes. Heat 
pineapple and juice, then add sugar, lemon juice and gelatine. 
Stir well, chill, stirring often. Add cream when mixture 
begins to thicken. If desired garnish with maraschino cherries. 
—Mrs. S. Curtis. 

Prune Whip 

One pound prunes soaked and cooked till stones may be 
removed. Return juice and prunes to stove and cook till very 
soft, sweetening to taste. Take from stove and cool. Prepare 
a lemon jelly powder in the usual way. When jelly begins to 
set, add to the prunes and whip together. Place in individual 
dishes and set in a cool place till ready to serve. Serve with 
whipped cream. Any other fruit may be substituted for prunes. 
— Mrs. Ed. Legg. 






i ' 



% 



r 



H 



i 
( 



58 



KINGSMrLL-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



Pnme Pudding' 

One lb. stewed prunes with pits removed. Chop fine and 
add 1 cup sugar. Put back in juice and cook a little. Beat well 
the whites of 4 eggs, add to the prunes and bake in a greased 
dish until a light brown, Stf\t with whipped cream. — Mrs, 
John Smith. 

Marshmallow Dessert 

Half pound plain fresh marshmallows cut in small cubes, 
1 cup broken walnut meats, 1 cup of cream whipped. Mix 
together. Serve very cold in sherlxt dishes and garnish with 
a cherry. — Myrtle Paddon. 

Paradise Pudduig' 

One package of Jello, any flavour. Prepare Jelly in usual 
way and when it begins to set beat with a wire t^g beater 
until foamy. Fold in two-thirds of a cup of sweetened, thick 
whipped cream and maraschino cherries or nuts may be added. 
Four into a mould and let stand until firm. Serve garnished 
with whipped cream. — Edith McGregor, 

Almond Pudding 

One quart of milk heated and thickened with conistaich, 
and sweetened to taste with gran, sugar. Add almond extract 
and 10c worth of almonds blanched and ground. — Mrs. G. E. 
Simpson. 

Boiled Custard 

Two cups milk, yolks of 3 eggs beat into | cup of sugar. 
When milk boils add eggs and sugar, \ teaspoon vanilla and a 
pinch of salt. Beat well while cooking. Serve with fresh or 
canned fruit. — Mrs. O. Derrough. 

Tapioca Pudding 

One cup tapioca soaked in a qt. of milk over night. In the 
morning heat up another cup of milk and add the other to it. 
Add yolks of 4 eggs, \ cup sugar, vanilla and salt. Beat whites 
and brown in an oven. — Mrs. S. Parkes. 

Steamed Fruit Pudding 

Put 2 cups fruit or apples in a basin and cover with a 
batter as follows : 1^ cups flour, 1^ teaspoons baking powder, 
1 tablespoon sugar, sweet milk to make a stiff batter. Cover 
basin tightly and cook slowly on top of stove about 20 minutes 
or until apples are tender. Apples need water and fruit plenty 
of juice. Serve with cream and sugar. — Maud Bray. 



'.:n- 



m 



KINGSMJLL-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



59 



Old Fashioned Rice Pudding 

Pick over and wash ^ cup rice, turn into a pudding dish 
with 2 cups of water anad set over fire. Add ^ cup of raisins. 
Cook until water has been well absorbed by the rice, then add 
^ cup gran, sugar, ^ teaspoon salt and add about 4 cups of good 
whole milk. Set in the oven and bake. — Mrs. Jas. Legg. 

Pineapple FluflF 

Soak 1 cup tapioca over night. Boil tilLclear. Stir in one 
cup canned pineapple, add more sugar if necessary. Fold in the 
well beaten whites of 2 eggs. Serve very cold with whipped 
cream. — Mrs. Eugene Sweet. 

Graham Pudding 

Half cup molasses, ^ cup butter, 1 egg, ^ cup sour milk, 1 
teaspoon soda, two-thirds cup fruit, spices to taste and 1^ 
cups graham flour. Steam 2 hours. — Mrs. Clarence Rogers. 

Baked Cottage Pudding 

One pint flour, 1 cup milk, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 
1 small cup sugar, 1 tablespoon butter. Bake ^ hour and serve 
with hot sauce. — Maud Bray. 

Bread Pudding 

Fill a 2 quart basin half full of bread crumbs. Cover with 
milk. Then add 2 well beaten eggs. Sweeten to taste and add 
vanilla, salt and nutmeg. Bake until well browned. Raisins or 
currants may be added if desired. — Mrs. W. H. Legg. 



■'11 



C!aramel Pudding 

Half cup brown sugar browned well on stove (do not 
burn.) Add 3 cups hot sweet milk, 3 tablespoons cornstarch, 
tablespoon gran, sugar. Stir in 1 well beaten tgg after pudding 
is removed from stove and a little butter and vanilla. Dates, 
nuts or cocoanut may also be added if desired. — Mrs. W. H. 
Legg. 

Grapenut Pudding 

Half cup grapenuts, 2 cups milk, yolks of 2 eggs, ^ cup 
white sugar, i cup chopped raisins or dates. Scald milk and 
pour over grapenuts. Beat yolks of eggs and add to the milk, 
then add suj»"ar and 1 teaspoon vaniila and fruit. Beat v.'hites 
of eggs stiff aand fold into mixture. Bake in r pan of water 
in a slow oven half an hour.— Mrs. Arch. Ferguson. 



.:^m 






60 



KINCSM ILL-MA PLETON W. 1. COOK BOOK 



Tomlin's Shoe Store 

r Shoes of Distinction 

Quality and Value 

393 Talbot Street 2 doors west of Times- Journal 

. ST. THOMAS, ONT. 



-■» M W 



Glasses of the Finest Quality 

Leo N. Lxine 

Registered Optometrist 
ST. THOMAS, ONT. PHONE 1144 



Portraits for the Whole Family 

At your home or in our studio. 
We also do kodak finishing. 

The Scott Studio 

ST. THOMAS, ONT. 



i 



566 TallMt Street PHONE 591 

CALCOTT'S 

^rec mii Specials for Your New Fall Dress 

^i-mch black Duchesse Satin, wear guaranteed; 
Special at $L25 a yard. 

2. 36-inch Chiffon Dress Velvet in black (a real bargain) 

at $3.26 a yard. 

3. 40-inch Crepe Back Satin in black only? genuine Swiss 

make. Special at $2.69 yard. 



■» ■■ ■■ «■ 1 H ■«- 



■'^, 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. 1. COOK BOOK 



61 



Steamed PuddKng 

Three e^gs, 1^ cuiys sugar, 1^ cups sour cream, 1^ cups 
suet, 1 teaspoon soda, 2 cups raisins, 2 cups currants, 3 pieces 
lemon peel, 1 teaspoon each of cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg, 
3 cups flour, ^ cup cherry juice, i teaspoon mace, \ cup black- 
strap. Steam 4 hours. — ^Mrs, Walter Moore, 

Carrol PudcKng 

One cup hwlter, lard or suet, 1 cup grated potatoes, 1 
cup grated carrots, 1 cup raisins, 1 cup currants, 1 teaspoon 
each of soda and cinnamon, i teaspoon cloves, ^ cup yellow 
sugar, i cup milk, 1^ cups flour, i lb. lemon peel. Steam or boil 
3 or 4 hours. — ^Alta Holmes, 

English Plum Pudding 

Three-quarter lb. flour, ^ lb. bread crumbs, 1 lb. currants, 1 
lb. raisins, ^ lb. mixed peel, 4 eggs, 1 lb. yellow sugar, 1 lb, 
suet, i nutmeg, 2 oz. blanched almonds, 1 tablespoon salt, 
juice and rind of a lemon. Boil 3 or 4 hours, — Mrs, L, Laid- 
law. 

Date Pudding 

Two cups bread crumbs, 1 cup flour, 1^ cups chopped suet, 
li cups gran, sugar, 2 teaspoons baking powder, salt, 1 beaten 
<egg, I cup sweet milk. Put in a buttered bowl and steam 3 or 4 
hours. — Maud Bray. 

Date Pudding 

One package dates, 1 cup chopped walnuts, 2 eggs, ^ cup 
sugar, 3 tablespoons flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder. Spread 
dates in a pan, cover with the nuts, then beat the eggs, flour, 
sugar and baking powder to a batter and pour over the dates 
and nuts and bake. Serve with whipped cream. — Mrs, Skene 
Smith, 

Crecm D^p for Carrot Pudding 

Take i qt. crcrm, put on the stove and when it boils stir 
in li tablespoons C3rnstarch which has been mixed in 2 table- 
spoons cold creatn. Let thicken and then stir in a cup gran, 
sugar and i graced nutmeg, — Alta Holmes, 

Jelly Sauce to be Served with Baked Custard 

Half a cup gran, sugar, i cup water, 2 egg whites, 3 table* 
spoons currant or grape jelly. Boil sugar and water until it 
threads. Pour slowly over stiffly beaten whites of eggs and 
beat well. Then beat in the jelly and strained juice of 1 lemon. 



I 



lii 
m 

1 



>^.^ "i:;'^te*:* 



I^L. 



(^2 



KINGSMILL-MAPI.FTON W. I. (Y>C>K WH^K 



■v^ 



Lemon Sauce 

One cup water, 1 cup white sugar, juice of 1 lemon. Boil 
sugar and water add juice of lemon and 1 tablespoon butter. 

Sauce for Carrot Pudding 

Two cups brown sugar, 2 cups water, 3 luhlespoons corn- 
starch 2 tablespoons vinegar or lemon and a little vanilla. — 
Mrs. G. E. Simpson. 

Caramel Sauce for Christmas Pudding 

One and a half cups brown sugar caramelized by putting in 
a dish on the stove and allowing it to melt and brown without 
burning. To this add 2 cups hot water, 1 tablespoon butter, a 
little salt and enough cornstarch mixed with water to make 
the desired thickness. Flavour with a teaspoon each of vanilla, 
lemon and almond. — Myrtle Paddon. 

Strawberry Shortcake 

Two cups flour, 4 teaspoons baking powder, ^ teaspoon 
salt. 2 tablespoons gran, sugar, ^ cup butter, 5 cup milk. Mix 
dry ingredients, cut in butter and add milk gradually. Toss on 
floured board and divide in two parts. Pat, roll and bake in hot 
oven. Spread with butter and place sweetened berries between 
layers and on top. Garnish with a few large, whole berries. — 
Myrtle Paddon. 



Apples 

Our Own Canadian Fruit 



Fried Apples 

Cut apples in ^ inch slices across core. Remove core. Dip 
in flour and fry until tender and well browned on both sides. 
Serve with hot pork or pork chops. Sliced pineapple may be 
prepared the same way and served with roast chicken. — Edith 
McGregor. 

Cider Apple Sauce 

Boil 3 gals, sweet cider to one. Take good, solid, sweet 
apples that will stay whole when cooked. To every gallon 
apples after they are peeled and quartered add a third of cider. 
A little sugar may be added and makes it richer. Cook on the 
back of the stove a long time. The slower they are cooked the 
better they look. 



KINGSMILL-MAPLLTON W. 1. COOK BOOK 



68 



Baked Applesauce 

Peel, core and quarter 6 or 8 large sour apples, place in a 
tightly covered dish with 2 cujrs white sugar (g;ran.), a very 
few pieces stick cinnamon tind a cuj) cold water. Bake slowly 
about 3 hours when the apples should be transparent and look 
Jike jelly. Serve with vvhip])ed cream. — Mrs. Don. MacGregor. 

Baked Apple* 

Take half dozen apples that will stay whole when cooked. 
Half them and remove core. Mix ^ cuj) white sugar with 2 
teaspoons cinnamon and fill centres. Add a few raisins and 
nut meats on top of sugar and a little bit of butter. Put a little 
water in the pan and bake. — Mrs. Eid. Legg. 

Apple Dumplings 

Two cups flour, 2 teasi)oons baking powder, \ teaspoon 
salt, i cup shortening, | cup sweet milk, 6 apples, cinnamon 
and sugar. Sift flour, baking powder and salt. Work in short- 
ening and make dough with milk. Roll in oblong sheet and 
cut in 6 squares. Lay a cored and pared apple on each square 
of dough. Fill the centre of the apple with sugar and spice. 
Draw the paste to cover the apple and l>ake in a buttered pan. 
When nearly baked brush over with milk, and sprinkle with 
gran, sugar and finish baking. Serve hot. — Myrtle Paddon. 

Coddled Apples 

Make a syrup of 2 cups water and 1 cup gran, sugar. Peel 
and core 6 apples. Fill cavities with raisins and nuts and put 
whole cloves in syrup. Put apples in syrup and cook slowly 
till tender. Remove apples and boil syrup till qtiite thick. Pour 
over apples and garnish with jelly. — ^Alta Holmes. 

Stuffed Baked Apples 

Ten apples, wipe and core. Fill cavities with brown sugar, 
walnuts, raisins and cinnamon. Place in a bake dish, add a 
little water and bake. — Mrs. O. Derrough. 

Apple Snow 

Grate 1 large sour apple after peeling. Add sugar as you 
grate to keep white. 1 cup fruit sugar, 1 teaspoon lemon juice, 
white of 2 eggs not beaten. Beat altogether till white and 
fluflfy. Serve with cream. 

Tough meat* may be improved by letthig it He in vinegar 
a half hour before cooking. 



■, V 



64 



KtN(lSMILL-MAPI,KT»)N W. !. COOK BOOK 



Over 30 Years 

Selling Satisfactory Merchandise 

To the People of Elgin County. 

FURS. RKADY-TO-WEAK, LINENS. COTTONS, HOSIERY, 
GLOVES, SILKS. UNDERWEAR AND ACCESSORIES, 
MENS AND BOYS' WEAR 

OUTFITTERS TO THE ENTIRE FAMILY 

Andersons Limited 



St. Thomas, Ontario 



Phone* 162-163 



v — ■■■ 



«tM*a»M^MWIa^>*aiB*l«M 



A Recipe for Comfort 

Two feet of comfort in a pair of Steel Arch 
Oxfords or Strap Shoes. 



-(> 



Dixon s Shoe Store 



Aylmer : : Ont. 



wi n 11 



\ 



im-.w t 



'■\'. '-". ■■,-- ,-■' 



KINC.SMII.I.-MAI'LKTON W. I. ('<H)K BOOK 



68 



Apple Roll 

Kour nu'diuni si/eel apples or other fruit, 1^ cups sugar, 2 
cups water. Peel, core and chop ;ipi)les fine. Cook sugar and 
water in baking pan over slow fire. While cooking make a 
rich biscuit dough. Roll about -i inch thick, spread wit'i apples 
and roll into a long roll. Cut into pieces al)f)ut li or 2 inches 
long. Place with cut side down in hot syrui). Sprinkle with 
cinnamon and sugar and put a small piece of butter on top of 
each. Rake in a hot oven until apples are done and crust 
golden brown. Turn out on platter. Serve with plain or whipped 
cream. Peaches, rhubarb, berrie.s or other fruit may be used 
instead of apples. — Mrs. J as. Legg, 

Apple Crisp 

Eight apples (sliced), i cup cold water. 1 teaspoon cinna- 
mon. 1 cuj) sugar, ^ cup flour. 7 tablespoons shortening. Butter 
a baking dish and put in apples, water and cinnamon. Work 
together the other ingredients with finger tips till crumbly 
sj)re.ad over the apple mixture and bake uncovered in a ho 
oven. Serve with cream or maple syrup. 

Apple Injun 

Three cujjs milk, J cup cornmcal, 1 teaspoon each of cinn- 
amon and salt, 1^ cups brown sugar, 1 pt. cold milk, 2 table- 
S])oons butter and 1 qt. apples. Scald 3 cups milk, sift in corn- 
meal, stir rapidly and cook 5 minutes*. Remove from fire and 
add other ingredients and apples pared and cut in eights. Bake 
in a covered dish in a moderate oven for 3 hours. 

Invalid Pie 

Four tablespoons oatmeal and 1 pint water. Lei stand till 
oatmeal swells. Add 2 large apples pared and sliced, a little 
salt. 1 cup white sugar, 1 tablespoon flour. Mix altogether and 
bake in a buttered pan till apples are done. 



Always lay jars on their side after filling with fruit until 
they are cold and then the fruit will not jam in one end. 

To prevent glass from cracking when hot liquid is poured 
in it, either put a metal spoon or fork in it or set it on a folded 
towel wrung out of cold water. 

To launder delicate shades of blue and pink add a table- 
spoon of turpentine to a half gallon of water and soak material 
before washing. " -^ 



.■fi 



:!#*u 



,66 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETOKr W. I. COOK BOOK 



Canning, Marmalades, Preserves 
And Wines 



Canned Tomatoes 

Scalcf a few tomatoes at a time in boiling^ water for from | 
minute to 2 minutes. Dip in cold water and remove quickly. 
Remove the skin, pack the scalded tomatoes firmly into steri- 
lized jars. Fin jars to within j inch of top with either boiliiig 
tomato juice or boiling water. Add 1 teaspoon of salt for each* 
quart. Koil jars in tfcot water bath for 30 minutea. — Mrs. Jas.. 

Canned Corn 

Cut corn from cob and to a large pan of com add 1 cup of 
sugar. Knead with the hands, pack tiglitly in jars until milk 
runs over the top. Screw rings nearly down. Place in boiler 
which has board or rack to keep jars off bottom. Fill with "old! 
water half way up jars. Boil 3 hours". Let cool in water but 
screw tops before cold. 

Canned Com 

Twenty cups corn, 2 cups sugar, 1 sirjalf cup salt, 6 cups: 
water, boil 40 minutes. Have jars well sterilized and seal whi^e 
hot. — Mrs. Roy McGregor, 

Canned Com 

Can the same day as picked. Remove husks and silk, Droi> 
ears in boiling water 10 minutes and then plunge quickly in 
cold water. Cut corn from cob, pack solidly in sterilized jars. 
Add 1 teaspoon of salt to each quart and enough hot water to 
fill the jar. Place rubber and top in position and screw down 
part way. Put jars in hot water and cook 4 hours. Tighten 
cover, invert and cool. Next day test seal by taking off che ring- 
carefully and see if glass cover is tight. — Myrtle Paddon. 

Canned String Beans or Pea» 

Can the same day as picked. Shell peas or cut beans in 
pieces as for table. Put in boiling water from 2 to 5 minutes and 
then plunge in cold water. Pack in jars, fill crevices with boil- 
ing water, add a teaspoon salt to each quart. Put on rubbers, 
cover and partly screw down rings. Cook in hot water bath for 
3 hours. Remove jars, tighten rings and invert to cool. Test- 
next morning to see if they have sealed by carefully taking 
off the ring and seeing if co^er is tight. 



I 



m 



,»_;/■:.' 






KINGSMItL-MAPLETON W. 1. COOK BOOK 



67 



Canned Pineapple 

Three-quarter cup sugar to 1 lb. fruit (3 cups fruit equals 
1 lb.), 1^ cups water. Cook fruit and water 10 minutes. Add 
sugar and boil 2 or 3 minutes. — Mrs. Bruce Brown. 

Canned Pineapple 

Peel and cut pineapple in small pieces. Add | cup sugar to 
1 lb. fruit and let stand over night. Drain juice off and bring 
to a boil, skimming off all scum that rises. Drop in the fruit 
and when it starts to boil again remove from fire and can. 

"Raw Canned" Raspberries 

Select large firm raspberries. Pack fruit into sterilized 
jars. Make a syrup and while it is boiling pour over the fruit 
and seal tightly. Put the jars in a pail away from the stove. 
Fill the pail to the top of the jars with boiling water. Cover 
with a blanket and let stand till the water is cold. Remove the 
jars and tighten the tops again. — Myrtle M. Paddon. 

Canned Pumpkin 

Take two-thirds pumpkin and one third squash and put 
through grinder. To 1 heaping cup of mixture add two-thirds 
cup sugar. Stir. Let stand over night. In morning boil until it 
becomes thick, ,2 or 3 hours. Seal. This keeps splendidly and 
do not add any sugar when making pies. — Mrs. N. Curtis. 



**s! 



Canned Pumpkin 

Peel and cut pumpkin in cubes. To 3 qts. pumpkin add 1 of 
sugar. Let stand over night and in the morning cook till clear 
in its own juice and seal. — Mrs. D. D. Taylor. 

Carrot Marmalade 

Eight large carrots, 4 lemons, 6 cups v/hite sugar, 1 teas- 
poon salt. Put lemons and carrots through chopper. Put in 
kettle and just cover with water. Cook until tender, add sugar 
and cook until thick. This resembles orange marmalade. — Mrs. 
James Drake. 

Pumpkin Marmalade 

Cut an ordinary sized pumpkin into small pieces, then to 2 
bowls of pumpkin allow 1 bowl of gran, sugar. Cut up 10c 
worth of preserved ginger and 2 or 3 lemons nito iine pieces. 
Mix altogether and let stand over night. Boil down thick in 
the morning.— Mrs. M." L. Pettit. 



^t"? 




' ,'•. 



68 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



Rhubarb Marmalades 

Six cups rhubarb cut in small pieces, 5 cups sugar, 1 cup 
water, 1 orange put through chopper. Pour boiling water over 
rhubarb and let stand until cool. Then drain, add sugar, orange 
and cup of water. Let stand over night and boil until thick. — 
Mrs. Bruce Brown. 

Orans^e, Lemon and Grapefruit Marmalade 

One orange, 1 lemon and 1 grapefruit cut very thin. To one 
bowl of fruit add 2^ bowls of cold water and let stand over 
night. In the morning boil 45 minutes. Let stand until next 
morning, weigh and then put on to cook. Measure out 1^ lbs. 
sugar to each 1 lb. marmalade. After the juice has boiled add 
sugar and cook till it jellies. — Mrs. Roy McGregor. 

Peach and Orange Marmalade 

To 3 lbs. peaches prepared as for table add 2^ lbs. sugar, 1 
orange well shredded and J orange rind cut fine. Place on 
back of stove and cook till thick as desired. Seal while hot. — 
Mrs. D. R. McTaggart. 

Peach Marmalade 

To 7 lbs. peaches cut fine add 6 lbs. sugar, juice of 2 
lemons and 2 oranges. Then put rind of lemons and oniii^es 
through chopper and cook until tender in water. Then add to 
peaches and cook 1^ hours or until thick. — Mrs. A. Moore. 

Pear Marmalade 

Twelve lbs. pears, 9 lbs. gran, sugar, 2 lemons, 1 orange. 
Peel pears, cut fine. Add other ingredients and cook until clear 
and thick. — Mrs. J, Evert. 

Pear Marmalade 

Eight lbs. pears, | pint cold water, 6 lbs. gran, sugar, 4 
lemons, ^ lb, preserved ginger. Slice pears very thin, also slice 
preserved ginger, and add to pears sugar and cold water. Boil 
1 hour stirring often. Cook the lemons in cold water until 
tender, then cut in small pieces and add to pears and boil an 
hour longer. Put into glass jars. — Mrs. Sam Garton. 

Gingered Pears 

Ten lbs. pears chopped, J lb. sugar to each lb. fruit ; add the 
juice of 6 oranges and 3 lemons. Before pressing out the juice, 
cut off yellow part of rind and cut again in little strips. Cook 
these until tender, add rind and water to the fruit. Wash 4 ozs. 
ginger root cut in very thin slices, cook until tender and add to 



-?:!^ 



% 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. 1. COOK BOOK 



69 



,,,«f 



the fruit. Coolc altogether slowly for several hours until it 
thickens. Then put into jelly glasses, — Mrs. Clarence Rogers. 

Quince Hon^ 

Put 5 lbs. gran, sugar with 2 cups water in a preserving 
kettle. Place on stove and allow to melt slowly. Grate 5 quinces 
from which the peeling has been removed, add to the hot 
syrup and boil 15 minutes. Seal in glasses. — Mrs. Jas, Drake. 

Pinecot Preserves 

One pint grated pineapple, 1 cup light brown sugar, 1 lb. 
dried apricots, I cup pecans. Soak apricots over night m water 
to cover. Cook and rub through sieve. Add pineapple and sugar. 
Cook 5 minutes. Add nuts and cook 5 minutes, — Mrs, N. Curtis, 

Blade Ctiirrant Pireserves 

Four quarts black currants, 3 quarts cold water, 7 quarts 
sugar. Cook the currants in the water till soft, then add the 
sugar which has been dissolved in some of the juice and cook 
5 minutes. Seal, 

Grape Conserve 

Five pts. grapes, 8 cups sugar, 2 oranges, \ lb. raisins, 1 
cup nut meats. Separate pulp of grapes from skins and stew 
pulp 20 minutes. Put througti sieve. Put orange and raisins 
through food chopper. Boil together, except nut meats until 
skins are tender. Add nut meats ten minutes before removing 
from fire. Bottle and seal. — Mrs. O. Charlton, 

Cherry Conserve 

7 lbs, stoned red cherries, 5 oranges, 5 lbs. sugar, 1 lemon, 
^ lb. seeded or seedless raisins. Cook till thick as marmalade, 
ExceDcui to serve with fowl. — Myrtle Paddon, 

Elderberry Wine 

Put berries with enough water to just cover fruit on Stove, 

Boil J of an hour. Then strain. To 1 gal. juice add ^ gal. water 

To 1 gal. mixture add 3i lbs. sugar. Spread slice of toasted 

bread with a cake of Fleischman's yeast and place on top of 

mixture in crock. Let stand in warm place for about 10 days 

to ferment. Bottle as soon as it has quit fermenting. — Mrs. N, 

Curtis, 

Grape Wine (Sw et) 

Four mmrts srranps. 2 nnis water. Roil And let drain over 
_ — ^ jg — J — , _ — ^ _ — - _ ^ - - _- - . .^ 

nightnUse 1 cup. gran, iugar to 1 qt. of juice. Bring to a boil 

and bottle, — Mrs. Jas. Moore, 






■#^ 



m 



70 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



^- 



SHOP AT GOULD'S 



Ladies' Ready-to-wear 

Dry Goods 

Rugs and Draperies 

Fancy China, Etc, 



ELGIN'S GRE4TEST 

DEPARTMENT STORE 

J. H. Gould, Limited. St. Thomas, Ont. 



"t m n u - 



The Morris Store 

HEADQUARTERS FOR LINENS 

In our Staple Department we always carry a big assortment 
of Linens, including those for Kitchen use. 

KITCHEN TOWELLING is now made in most attractive 
patterns, small Gingham Checks, large overchecks, as well as 
regular patterns. 

!M THE STAMPED GOODS DEPARTMENT you will find 
a goodly assortment of Stamped Towels, Breakfast Cloths and 
aill such accessories which make the kitchen the pleasant place it 
should be. Fancy Linens on the 2nd Floor. 

We Invite Your Inspection 



The Morris Store 



aYu^ier 



ONT. 



^■■M M II i H ^iili^—W^M W n M iMI M ■■ I iMi^l M ' MM ■»- 



Mil M M n I B M Ml | l 






KINGSMTLL-M^PLETON W. 1. COOK BOOK 



71 



Ice Cream, Frozen Desserts 
And Sauces 



Maple Mousse 

One cup maple syrup, 1 pt. whipped cream. 2 eggs beaten 
stiff, pinch of salt. Boil the syrup and pour over the well 
beaten eggs. Let cool, then add the whipped cream. Put in a 
freezer packed with ice and salt or set on ice for 3 or 4 hours. 
A few chopped nut meats may be added when serving if de- 
sired. — Mrs. Roy McGregor. 

Angel Parfail 

One cup gran, sugar, whites 3 eggs, | cups water, 1 pt. 
heavy cream, and 1 tablespoon vanilla. Boil sugar and water 
imtil syrup will thread when dropped from the tip of a spoon. 
Pour slowly on the stiffly beaten whites of eggs and continue 
beating until mixture is cool. Add cream beaten stiff and vanilla 
Pack in a mould, well covered. Place in a pan of ice or snow 
r-nd let stand for several hours. — Edith McGregor. 

MarshmaUow Parfait 

2 cups whipped cream, ^ lb. marshmallows cut in pieces. 
Mix together. Let stand 1 hour, stirring occasionally. Pack in 
a covered n:ould in ice or snow for several hours. Maraschino 
cherries may be added. — Edith McGregor. 

Pineapple Ice 

One pint sugar dissolved in 1 qt. hot water. Cool. Add 1 
can pineapple chopped fine, the juice of 2 lemons and lastly 
the beaten whites of 2 eggs. Freeze. — Maud Hayes. 

Philadelphia Ice Cream 

Half envelope Knox's sparkling gelatine, ^ cup cold milk, 
1 qt. milk, 1 qt. cream, 2 cups gran, sugar, 2 tablespocms 
vanilla. Soften gelatine in ^ cup cold lailk for 5 minutes. Put 
in 1 qt. scalded milk and cool. When cool strain into eam, add 
vanilla and free. Cream may be whipped is desired. — Mrs. 
J as. Moore. 

Butterscotch Sauce for Vanilla Ice Cream 

One and a quarter cups brown sugar, 4 tablespoons but- 
ter, two-thirds cup cornsyrup, three-eights cup heavy cream, 
three-eights cup milk. Put sugar, corn syrup and butter in a 
saucepan, and boil until a soft ball forms in cold water. Then 
add cream and milk. 



iM 







I! / 



i 



72 



KlN'CISMn 1.- MAPLETON W. 1. COOK BOOK 



■ ■ ■ ■■■ ■■! I ■■ MJiMi M^ ■■! I n il I .|» 




4 4 




his Recipe 



The Magic of selling or g^ood buying Is in letting 
people kiiK.w what you have or what you want. Through 
the use of Ihe Aylnier Express you can turn discarded 
furniture .implements, autos, farm stock, f^ed, in fact any 
ci >tnmodity, into cash. Try this paper with an adv. when 
you want to purchase any second hand article. 

The Express is the Official Sale Register for East Elgin 

We Print Everything from Sale Bills; to Cook 

Books, 

Let Us Quote You Prices 



-o — 



The Ayl 



mer 



Expr 



ess 






o 



( -) 



i m ! ! ■■■■ i M " 



■ W li ■■ I U I t M I »■■■■ »■ 



% 



• .d»*J'-' 



A. 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



73 



Butterscotch Sauce for Ice Cream 

Three clips brown sugar, ^ cup butter, ^ ot. heavy cream. 
Put in top of double boiler and place over hot water with a 
s Ow heat and cook 1 hour stirring occasionally. Pour over 
li j.^ila ice-cream. — Mrs. Arch, Ferguson, 

Frosen Raspbenries 

One quart raspberries, mashed fine. 1 lb. sugar and juice 
o^ 2 lemons. Let stand 1 hr. stirring occasionally. Add 1 qt. 
water and freeze. — Maud Hayes. 

Vanilla Ice-Cream 

Two eggs, 1 cup sugar, 2 cups cream, 1 cup milk, 1 table- 
spoon vanilla. Beat eggs and sugar together until sugar is 
entirely dissolved. Whip cream stifif and add to eggs and sugar. 
Then add milk and flavouring. Freeze. 

Vanilla Ice-Cream 

Two cups milk, 1 cup sugar, 2 tablespoons flour, pinch 
salt, 2 eggs, 2 cups cream, ^ tablespoon vanilla. Scald milk. Mix 
sugar, flour, salt ; add whole eggs and beat together. Add hot 
milk and well mixed turn into double boiler and cook 20 min- 
utes, stirring constantly until smooth and then occasionally. 
Cool, add cream and flavouring and freeze. Serves 10. 

Orange Ice 

Four cups water, 2 cups sugar, 2 cups orange juice, ^ cup 
lemon juice, grated rind of 2 oranges. Make a syrup of the 
sugar and water by boilJng 20 min. Then add fruit juice and 
grated rind. Lor I, strain and freeze. 

Candy 

Butte; cotch (1) 

Two lbs. ' luwn sugai, H cups water, 1 tablespoon vine- 
egar, 2 tal v_apoons butter, r) sil till brittle when dropped in 
cold water. Pour into a buttered pan a ad when partly cool 
mark into squares. — Mrs. Clarence Carton. 

Butter Scotch (2) 

Two cups light brown sugar, 2 tablespoons water, 2 table- 
spoons vinr^gar,^ teaspoon salt, ^ cup syrup (corn or maple). 
Boil till it fonr hard ball when dropped in cold water, then 



^T^.i 



74 



KINCSMILI^MAPLETON W. I. COX3K BOOK 



add \ cup butter and 1 teaspoon vanilla. Pour into a buttered 
dish to cool but do not stir. — Mrs. W. Kunz. 



Fudge 

Two ozs. unsweetened chocolate or two tablespoon"? crcoa, 
I cup brown sugar, 1 cup g-ranulated sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 
I cup milk. 1 teaspoon vanfUa. Boil all but butter and vanilla, 
fill it forms a firm ball when dropped in cold water. 
Remove from stove and stir fast till it thickens. Pour into a 
buttered dish and mark in squares. — Eva Leg^g. 

Chocolate CariMnel Candy 

One and a half lbs. sugar, ^ cup butter, 1 cup milk, 5 oz. 
chocolate. Cook slowly without stirring, and cut in squares 
while hot. — Mrs. Dow Rankin. 

Maple Cream Candy (1) 

Two cups brown sugar, one-third cup cream or milk, 1 
teaspoon butter, 2 teaspoons vanilla. Cook without stirring or 
jarring pan till it forms a soft ball when dropped in cold 
water. Add flavoring when taken from stove and whip till 
thick. Turn out on a buttered platter. — Hazel Garton. 

Maple Cream (2) 

One lb. brown sugar, 1 can Silver Cow condensed milk, ^ 
cup milk, butter size of walnut. Cook till it forms a firm ball 
when dropped in cold water and then beat. Have ready a cup 
of chopped nuts and add before pouring into a buttered mould. 
— Mrs. Skene Smith. 

Marshmallow Candy 

One envelope Knox sparkling gelatine, l\ cups water, 2 
cups white sugar, a pinch of salt and a teaspoon vanilla. Soak 
geatine in half the water five minutes. Boil remainder of 
.water with sugar till it hairs. Add gelatine and let it partly 
cool. Whip till it is thick and white. Put into greased pans, 
chill, turn out on powdered sugar, cut in squares and roll in 
sugar. A variation may be made by rolling in ground nuts, 
ground cocoanut or any fruit may be added before it is 
chilled. — Mrs. J as. Moore. 

Divinity Fudge 

Two and a half cups white sugar, i cup corn syrup, ^ cup 
water, pinch of salt, whites of 2 eggs. Boil sugar, syrup and 
water until it forms a soft ball in cold water. Pour slowly over 
beaten whites of 2 eggs. Continue to beat the mixture until 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. 1. COOK BOOK 



75 



■, n 



creamy. Add 1 cup chopped nuts or cherries and 1 teaspoon 
vanilla. Pour into a buttered dish and when cool cut in 
squares. — Mrs. Archie Ferguson, 

Everton Toffee 

Two cups com syrup, 2 cups yellow sugar, J lb. butter. 
Boil until it forms a soft ball in water, add flavouring if 
desired. Pour in a pan, let cool and then cut in squares. — 
Mrs. O. Charlton. 

Patience Cvndy 

Put 2 cups gran, sugar and 1 cup milk or cream in a 
saucepan and boil. Put 1 cup gran, sugar in another dish and 
let melt to form caramel. Combine the two. boil till it forms a 
soft ball when dropped into cold water. Then stir till cool and 
turn out on a buttered pan. — Mrs. Kunz, 

Cocoanut Ice 

Four cups gran, sugar, 4 tablespoons shredded cocoanut 
chopped fine, l| cups sweet milk. Put sugar, cocoanut and 
milk into a saucepan and boil to the soft l^all stage. Take from 
the fire and stir until sugary. (May be coloured if desired). 
Pour into a greased tin to cool. Cut in squarer — Eva Legg. 

Penelope 

Three cups brown sugar, 1 cup milk, small piece butter, 
^ lb. chopped walnuts and vanilla. Boil 15 minutes. It should 
almost sugar before removing from fire. After removing 
from fire beat hard 1 minute, then pour into greased pans. 
When cool mark into squares. — Miss LaRue. 

Fondant 

Two cups gran, sugar and two-thirds cup water. Put in 
a saucepan and stir until it boils. Then boil without stirring 
until it forms a soft ball when dropped in cold water. Set 
aside to cool where it will not be jarred till cool enough to 
put your finger in it. Flavour and stir until it turns pure 
white, and then knead on a bread board. Fondant thus made 
has many uses. Before stirring it, it may be divided into two 
or three dishes anr? j-Ul different flavouring to each and it may 
be coloured difft y but there must be someone ready to 

stir <"ach when it i^ ready. It may be used to stuff dates, it may 
be i-.oulded in any shape and dipped in melted chocolate or 
roll the different colours with a rolling pin into half-inch 
sheets. Wet the top of the first sheet and place another on it. 
When the sheets lave thus been put together cut in squares. 



'iL I 







76 



KINf;SMILI,-MAPI,ET(»N W. I. TOOK BOOK 



Another much liked nethod is to pi't two sheets tofjether atid 
then roll in a tig^ht roll and cut down t:i sl'ces with a sharp 
knffe. If fondant gets a little too st '. > ,■ '> k easily moisten 
the finger tips with cold water .nid kntat! again. — Mrs. Don 
McGregor. 

Popcorn BalU 

One cup corn syrup. 1 cup white sugar, 1 teaspoon vine- 
gar. Boil without stirring till it hardens in cold water. Pour 
on popcorn, stir and shape in balls. 

Dry Peppermints 

Half oz. or 1 tablespoon Knox's Gelatine dissolved in 
^ cup boiling water. Let stand till lukewarm. Mix and knead 
in 2 lbs. or less of icin^ sugar on a hard flat surface. Add oil 
of peppermint, a drop or two at a time, until the desired 
flavour. Vegetable colouring may be added. Roll with the 
palm of the hand into a long stick. Cut oflf in \ inch slices. 
Let stand on wax paper for several hours. — Edith McGregor. 

White Taffy 

Four cups gran, sugar, 1 cup water and 3 teaspoons 
cream tartar. Boil without stirring till brittle when dropped 
in cold water. Then add lump of butter and 2 teaspoons of 
pineapple or any desired flavour. Turn on a buttered platter 
until cool enough to handle. Pull until white, the longer you 
pull it the better the taffy. Cut in small pieces. — M >. Clar- 
ence Rogers. 

Turkish Delight 

Two tablespoons gelatine, i ciip cold water, t\ o and one- 
third cups sugar, ^ cup cold wate'- Soak gelatin in ^ cup 
cold water for 10 minutes. Put sugar and f c\\\ water in 
saucepan and bring to boiling point, add gelatine and boil for 
20 minutes. Stir frequently as it ^urns readily. Color ha'T 
with green colouring and flavour with wintergreen, the other 
half red and flavour with peppermint. Pour red mixtiire in a 
pan that has beesi rinsed with coltl water, let harci . slightly 
and keep the green part warm. Then pour \i he gicen. Let 
stand until firm. Remove to a board sprinkle' itl powdered 
sugar. Cut in cubes with a hot knife. 

Salted Almonds 

Blanch and dry 1 pound almonds. Put ^ cup butter and 1 
cup lard in a small saucepan and heat very hot. Drop in the 
dry almonds a few at a time, keep them stirred and remove 
from fat when they are well browned. Put on brown paper 
to drain and sprinkle thickly with salt. Keep in a dry place 
until used. — I^Iyrtle Paddon. 



cups 
half 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. I. C0( ^OOK 



77 



Biscuits, Johnny Cake, Fritters, 
Gems and Cheese Straws 



fan Cakes 

Two cups sour milk, 1 teaspoon gran, sugar, 1 teaspoon 
melted butter, a little salt. Stir in flour enough to make a 
batter. Add one heaping teaspoon soda dissolved in a little 
hoiling water. Fry on a hot griddle. — Mrs. W. H, Legg. 

Johnny Cake 

Two eggs, i cup butter, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 cup sugar, 2 
cups butter milk. 2 tablespoons molasses. Put half flour and 
half cornmeal to make a medium batter, — Hazel Bailley. 

Johnny Cake 

One up sour cream, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon soda, ^ cup sugar, 
two-thirds cup white flour, 1 cup cornmeal. a little salt. Use 
all level measurements and sift flour before measuring. — Mrs. 
O. Derrough. 

Bran Muffins 

O). cup flci . 2 cups table bran. 1 cup raisins, J cup 
brown _ igar, 1 vgg, 2 tablespoons shortening, pinch of salt, 
1 teaspoon Mnnamon, ^ teaspoon cloves, 1 teaspoon soda added 
to 1 cup .r milk. Mix soda well in the milk and add to the 
other ingredients which have been thoroughly mixed together. 
This recipe mak 1 dozen muffins. — Mrs. A. Moore, 

Bran Muffins 

One cup bran, J cup graham flour, 2 tablespoons sugar, 1| 
teaspoons baking powder. Mix together. Add 1 tablespoon 
shortening, 1 egg and 1 cup milk. Bake in muffin tins in a hot 
oven for 25 minutes. This will make 12 muffins. — Mrs. Roy 
Charlton. 

Bran Nut Muffins 

Two cups bran, 1 cup white flour. .\ cup molasses, 1 cup 
milk, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 1 teaspoon salt, J cup raisins 
washed in cold water and cut in small pieces, | cup nutmeats 
chopped. Mix thoroughly and bake in greased muffin tins in 
a hot oven. — Mrs. E. Legg. 

Sweet Muffins (Served warm) 

One tablespoon butter, | < up sugar, 1 cup milk, 2 cupS 
flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, i teaspoon salt, 1 egg. Bake 
in muffin tins in a hot oven, — Mrs. C Rogers. 



I 



'<M- 



. -s*:-, : 



78 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BfK)K 



ti 



Sure Death^^ Rids Hens of Lice 

and docs it cleanly and effectively without dusting or handling 
ibirds. Not only docs it destroy lice and mites, but it keeps the 
flock clean and healthy, and increase/ r<^K production. Just drop 
one 

"SURE DEATH TABLET" 

in each gallon of drinking water or milk and all vermin disappear. 
Does not affect flesh or fertility of eggs. Generous package con- 
taining treatment for nearly a year for the average flock. $1 
postpaid. 

"SURE LAY" WONDERFUL EGG MAKER 

ibreaks the strike of non-laying hens ; makes old hens lay like 
pullets; slacker hens hustle; pullets lay at top-notch form; tones 
up the system; stimulates the egg-producing organs, and assures 
strong, hardy chicks. If you want winter eggs give our "SURF. 
iLAY" ta'blets to your birds and watch your profits grow. They 
do the work and do it right. Larkc package, $1.00. post paid- 

Valua'Mc bulletins on poultry diseases and feeding pro-blems 
free with order, also free consultant service from practical 
poultrymen. Satisfaction guaranteed or money refunded. Not the 
cheapest but the best. Agents wanted. 



Erindale Poultry Farm 

Route 2, Port Credit, Ontario 



Two 
powder, 4 

salt and l);i 
t(» make a 
Nt'i\ Curti 



Half 
salt. I t'KS 
2 tens])o<)t 
Sweet. 



One t 
cups sour 
meal. 2 c 
thicken. 1 



Two 
low suga 
cornnieal 
teaspoon 
Tueal tog 
or a Ion; 



i( 



The Famous RoTertible 

VELVETEX" RUGS 



Suitable for any room or hall. Will last a lieftime. Made from 

Your Old Rugs and Carpets. For hotels, hospitals, churches, 
lodges, homes, etc. We pay transportation on all orders in Ontario 
Established 1909 Used in best homes from coast to coast 



Canada Rug Company 



MAIN OFFICES 

"VELVETEX" BUILDING 
"Velvetex" Building, London, Ont- 



TORONTO OFFICE 

713 Yon.?e St., Phone ; 
Kingsdale 2295 



ftm 1^ w% 11 .M 

r lease oena tor DOOKiei 



-M— aii^— li^^«» ■■- 



I 



— — t^ 



Twc 
table spo( 
thirds ci 
ter, add 
make a 
grated « 
Edith ^ 



Tw 
spoon s 
teaspoo 
pieces, 
baking 

tins 25 



■■-\ 






RlNr.SMlM.-MAI'I.ETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



79 






Tea Biscuits 

Two ctu)s flour. I tt'aspooii salt. 4 tc.'ispooiis hakitip 
powder, 4 tablespoons shortening. 5 cu]) sweet milk. Sift flour, 
salt and hakinjjf powder together. Cut in shortening. Add milk 
to make a soft dough. Hake If) niiimtts in a hot (nen. — Mrs. 
Nei\ Curtis, 

Graham Gemi 

Half CU]) hrown sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 teaspoon 
salt. I egg, 1 cup milk, 1 cup flour, 1 cup graham flour or bran. 
2 teas])oons Iwjking jjowder. Bake in gem j)ans. — Mrs. Eugene 
Sweet. 

Gem* 

One cup brown sugar, 2 tablespoons shortening, 2 eggs. 2 
cu])s sour milk, 2 teasi)oons soda dissolved in milk, i cup oat- 
meal. 2 cups bran. 2 teaspoons baking powder, salt, flour to 
thicken. Bake in a hot oven. — Mrs. Harvev F'ishbach. 



Commeal Gems 

Two eggs, butter the size of a small egg. 1 scant cup yel- 
low sugar, 1 cup sour milk, 1 level cup flour, 1 heaping cup 
cornmeal, 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in a little sour milk, 1 
teaspoon baking powder mixed with flour. Sift flour and corn- 
meal together. Add soda last thing. Hake either in gem tins 
or a long pan. — Mrs. W. H. Legg. 

Cheese Biscuits 

Two cups bread flour, 5 teaspoons baking powder, 2 
tablespoons butter, ^ teaspoon salt, 1 cup grated cheese, two- 
thirds cup milk. Sift dry ingredients together. Rub in the but- 
ter, add the grated cheese. Cut in the milk with a knife to 
make a soft dough. Roll f of an inch thick, cut. sprinkle with 
grated cheese and bake in a hot oven about 15 minutes. — 
Edith McGregor. 

Date Muffins 

Two tablespoons shortening, 2 tablespoons sugar, ^ tea- 
spoon salt, 1 egg, 1 cup milk, 2 cups swansdown flour, 3 
teaspoons baking powder, two-thirds cup dates cut in small 
pieces. Melt shortening, add sugar and well beaten egg. Sift 
baking powder, salt and flour, add dates. Add this to first 
mixture, alternating with milk. Bake in well greased muffin 
tins 25 minutes in moderate oven. — Mrs. Jas. Patterson. 



I« 1' 



if 



80 



KlNGSMfLL-iMAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



*——"——"' 



■■mt^^Hw^^ii w ■■! ■■■ 



REWARD MERIT 



GIVE HIM OR HER A WRIST WATCH 

A real timepiece. To the successful student who passes nothing 
can please more than a real good watch. 

GIFTS THAT LAST 

WE HAVE THEM. See our Special at $12.00. Warranted, 

of course. 

E. H. FLACH 

Jeweler 
DIAMOND HALL 



-■tf^^ m tB^^«a»^ilt^»«||— MM— il— »i I MlM.iB WM iiMlf 



Belmont Barber and Beauty Shop 




Hair Dressing in all branches by Expert Opera- 
tors in Ladies' and Gents' Departments 

MARCELLING, WATER-WAVING, SHAM- 
POOING, HAIR-CUTTING AND 
MANICURING 

C. E. and M- CHATTERSON 



THE P * NK OF NOVA SCOTIA 

Established 1832 

CAPIPTAL $10,000,000.00 

RESERVE FUND $19,500,000.00 

Branches at all Principal Centres. 

FARMERS' BUSINESS 

Special attention is givtMi to the Accounts of Farmers. Stock 
Raisers, Cheese Factories, etc. Sale ^Notes cashed or taken *^or 
collection ; Blank Note Forms supplied free on application at the 
Bank. 

H. WILSON, Manager, Belmont, Ont- 



More Heat Per Dollar 

OUR SPECIAL LEHIGH COAL AND SOLWAY COKE 
Will give You Greatest Valuf 

ALSO CEMENT AND BUILDERS' SUPPLIES 



f 
J. 



At. KJUIKU. 



■MU m* 1I W iaSI W MiiBM*WIII " *WMI^ 






M* 11 ■ ^IH ^Mii 



S.'.%^\,^ . 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



ft 



Cheese Straws 

i cup ^ated cheese, ^ cup butter, 1 teaspoon sugar, ^ 
teaspoon salt, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon nutmeg, 2 tablespoons sweet 
cream and 1:^ cups flour. Mix ail other ingredients, then add 
flour. Roll out and cut in strips six inches long and i inch 
wide. Bake in a moderate oven, — Myrtle Charlton. 

Banana Fritters 

One cup flouT, 2 teaspoons baking powder. 1 tablespoon 
powdered sugar, \ teaspoon salt, \ cup milk. 1 egg, 1 tables- 
])oon lemon juice, 3 bananas. Mix and sift dry ingredients. 
Add others in order. Force bananas through sieve before 
adding. Beat thoroughly. Drop by spoonfuls into hot fat. 
J)rain and sprinkle with powdered sugar. — Marion Charlton. 

Apple or CX'ange Fritters 

One and a half cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking flour, J 
■teaspoon salt, 1 egg, 1 tablespoon butter, | cup milk, 3 table- 
spoons sugar, 3 cubed apples or oranges. Sugar the fruit. 
Make a batter of above ingredients and stir in the fruit. Drop 
into hot. deep fat and cook fou.- or five minutes. Drain on 
brown paper. — Myrtle M. Paddon. 



Cakes 



-o 



Cheap Fruit Cake 

Four eggs, 2 cups sugar, 2-3 cup butter. 2 cups rich sour 
cream. 2 teaspoons soda, 1 cups raisins. 1 cup dates, 20c almond 
nuts, 20c lemon and citron peel mixed, 1 teaspoon vanilla, one- 
eighth teaspocm salt, 1 nutmeg, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 1 
teaspoon cloves, about 5 cups flour. Bake slowly 1^ hours. — 
Mrs. Claude Hoover. 

Wedding Cake 

Ten eggs, 1 lb. brown sugar, 1 lb. butter, 2 cups currants. 
2 cups raisins. 2 lbs. flour, 10c walnut meats, 10c mixed peel. 
i teaspoon cloves, nutmeg, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, juice of 2 
oranges, 1 cup fruit juice, 1 teaspoon soda. — Mrs. John Chute. 

Christmas Cake 

Eight eggs, 3i cups sugar, 1 lb. butter, 2 I'os. seedless 
raisins, 2 lbs. currants. 1 pound dates (cut fine), i lb. chopped 
walnuts, \ lb. each citron and lemon peel, ^ teaspoon eajh of 



t^'., 



'OjAa'.i 



■wt:.^^ ".M^. , 




82 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



':'*'■>. 



cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg and mace, I cup canned straw- 
berries, i cup molasses, i cup sour cream, 1 teaspoon soda, 5 
cups flour. 

Almond Paste — Yolks of 3 eggs, 1 lb. blanched and chop- 
ped almonds, 1 cup bread crumbs, 1 cup icing sugar, 1 teaspoon 
almont extract. Mix thoroughly, apply to top of cake. Cover 
with boiled icing. — Mrs. S. Curtis. 

Fruit Cake (a Real Good One) 

One and ^ lbs. butter, 2 lbs. brown sugar, 4 eggs, teasp(H)n 
Soda, 1 cup sour milk, 4 lbs. raisins, 3 lbs. currants, 1 lb. peel, 
1 lb. nuts, 3 lbs. sifted flour, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, allspice and 
i teaspoon nutmeg. Stir butter to a cream, then add sugar 
and work until white. Add the yolks o{ vggs, well beaten. 
Beat the whites to a froth, then add the flour and fruit and 
spice all together. Stir well and bake well. — Mrs. J. Blumen- 
stein. 

Fruit Cake 

Two cups sugar, 2 cups butter. 5 eggs, 1 cup molasses, 1 
cup sweet milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 tablespoon each of the 
following: cloves, mace, cinnan.^i, allspice, nutmeg, 1^ lb, 
currants, ^ lb. raisins. 1 lb. dates, ^ lb. citron or lemon peel, 
5 cups flour.-^Mrs. Arthur Bailey. 



if 



Eggless Christinas Cake 

Two cups brown sugar, 2 cups sour milk, t tablespoon 
soda, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 teaspoon cloves, I teaspoon 
vanilla, -| teaspoon nutmeg, 1 grated orange, 1 lb. dates, | lb, 
nuts, 1^ lbs. currants, 1 )b. raisins, 1 lb. chopped figs, 1 cup 
chopped peel, 3 cups flour. Bake one hour in slow oven.. — 
M"., J. C, Simpson. 

Fruit Cake 

One pound butter, 1 lb. brown sugar, 2 lbs. currants, 2 
lb. raisins, 12 eggs, ^ lb. citron peel, i lb. almonds, | lb. cand ed 
cherries, 1 teaspoon mixed spices, 1 nutmeg, 1 lb. flour or 
more. 1 teaspoon soda sifted with flour. Salt, juice and grated 
rind of lemon. — Mrs. R. McGregor. 

Scotch Cake 

One egg, i cup butter, 1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup sour 
milk, li cups flour, 1^ cups oatmeal, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 
teaspoon baking powder. Varrilla, nutmeg, salt and fruit. — 
Mrs. A. Moore. 



m 



KINGSMILI^MAPLETON W. T. COOK BOOK 



83 



Light Fruit Cake 

One und a half cups granulated sugar, ^ cup butter, 1 
small cup sweet cream, 2 cups flcur, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, whites of 3 eggs (beaten), 1 teaspoon each of almond, 
rose, vanilla and ^ teaspoon wintergreen extract, li^ lbs. white 
raisins, ^ lb. citron, 1 cup candied cherries cut, ^ lb. blanched 
nhnonds. Cream the butter and sugar, add cream, then fruit 
with part of flour, and baking powder. Add extracts and lastly 
add beaten egg whites. — Mrs. Jas. Moore. 

Maple Syrup Cake 

One cup yellow sugar, 2 tablespoons shortening, 2 eggs> 
^ cup sour cream. Fill the cup with maple syrup, 2 cups of 
flour, I teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon Baking Powder, vanilla 
flavoring. This may be made as a layer or loaf cake, and iced 
with maple icing. 

Maple Icing — 1^ cups yellow sugar, maple syrup. Boil 
until it forms a soft ball in water. Add a piece of butter, and 
let stand until partly cold and beat. If too hard, add a little 
cream and beat. — Mrs, Skene Smith. 

Cocoanut Feather Cake 

One and a half cups flour, J cup gran, sugar, 2 teaspoons 
baking powder, i cup grated cocoanut> 4 tablespoons melted 
butter, 1 egg, ^ cup sweet milk, 1 teaspoon lemon flavoring. 
Siit first three ingredients together twice. Mix the last 
four together and combine the two mixtures. Add the cocoanut 
and bake in moderate oven. — Myrtle M. Paddon. 



■" ii 



\ 'A 



Cocoanut Snowball Cake 

One and a half tablespoons butter, 1 cup granulated sugar, 
2 egg yolks, 1 teaspoon vanilla, ^ teaspoon salt, f. cup cocoa- 
nut milk, IJ cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder. Bake in 
layer tins. If not enough cocoanut milk, add water. 

Frosting and Filling — 1^ tablespoons butter, 1 cup granu- 
lated sugar, i cup water. Boil until it strings. Then add to 
stiffly beaten egg whites. Sprinkle grated cocoj'.nut on top 
and centre. — Mrs. J. Durdle. 



Layer Cake 

One-quarter cup butter, 1 cup sugar, I cup milk, 2 eggs, 
one and two-third cups flour, 2 level teaspoons baking powder. 
Cream butter and sugar.. Add eggs well beaten. Add milk with 
flour and baking powder well sifted. — Mrs. J. Bray. 



'4 



S4 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



White Layer Cake 

One scant cup granulated sugar, 1 heaping tablespoon 
butter or domestic shortening. Whites of 3 eggs. Cream 
together thoroughly, J cup sweet milk. If cups pastry flour, 2 
teaspoons baking powder. Salt and vanilla. Bake in two 
layers in moderate oven. — Mrs. Wm. H. Legg. 

Spanish Bun 

Two-thirds cup brown sugar, ^ cup syrup. | teaspoon all- 
spice, cloves and cinnamon, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 cup sour 
cream, 1 teaspoon soda. Yolks of 2 eggs (whites for icing), 2 
cups flour. — :Mrs. I\ J. Ferguson. 

Spanish Bun 

Four eggs, whites of 2 for icing, 2 cups yellow sugar, 2 
cups flour, 1 cup sweet milk. 1 cup butter, 2 teaspoons cream 
tartar, 1^ teaspoons soda, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, ^ teaspoon 
cloves. 

Icing — Beat whites of 2 eggs stiff, with ^ cup granulated 
sugar and 1 teaspoon cinnamon. — Mrs. J. W. Johnson. 

Spice Cake 

One and a half cups brown sugar. 2 eggs, i cup butter, 1 
cup sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon cloves, 
1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 teaspoon allspice. ^ teaspoon nutmeg, 
1^ cups currants, — Mrs. Myron Ashford. 

Lace Cake 

Two eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 teaspoons 
baking powder, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 2^ cups Quaker oats. Bake 
in a hot oven. — Mrs. J. Blumenstein. 

White Shrine Cake 

One cup sugar. 1 cup flour, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 1 
teaspoon baking powder, ^ cup scalded milk. 

Filling — 1 tgg, f cup sugar, 1 tablespoon cornstarch, juice 
and rind of lemon, ^ cup water. — Mrs. L Laidlaw. 

Apple Sauce Cake 

Two and a half cups cold apple sauce, unsweetened, made 
fine, 4 level teaspoons soda, 2 cups yellow sugar, 1 cup butter, 
1 cup currants, 1 cup raisins, 5c lemon peel, ^ nutmeg, two 
teaspoons cinnamon, 4| cups flour. Mix sauce and soda in one 
pan. Mix other ingredients in another pan Then combine and 
bake. — Grace Charlton. 



- jj^ . '. 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. 1. COOK BOOK 



85 



Banana Loaf Cake 

One and a half bananas chopped fine, 1 cup brown sugar, 
i large tablespoon butter, 1 egg broken in a cup *^hen fill up 
with sour cream. 1 large teaspoon baking powder, IJ cups 
flour. — Mrs. Archibald, 

Butter Milk Cake 

One cup brown sugar, 1 cup butter milk, | cup shortening, 
2 tablespoons molasses, 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 cup 
raisins, ^ teaspoon cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg. — Mrs. William 
Perry, 

Ap|»le Sauce Gdce 

One and a \ cups cold aj^ple sauce, 2 scant teaspoons soda, 
dissolved in sauce. Scant ^ cup shortening, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup 
raisins. Salt, spice to taste. 2 cups flour. — Maud Bray, 

Tutti Fruitti Cake 

Two cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup milk, 4 cups flour, 
"Whites of 5 eggs, 2 teaspoons baking powder. Divide into 4 
parts, leaving one part plain. To one part add half cup chopped 
walnuts, to another ^ cup chopped raisins and citron. To the 
third part ^ cup fresh grated cocoanut and the grated rind of a 
lemon or part of an orange. Bake in layers and put together 
with white icing. Place the plain layer at the bottom, next the 
raisin and citron layer, next the nut layer and the cocoanut 
layer on top. — Mrs, E, Holmes, 

Dark Layer Cake 

Yolks of 2 eggs, ^ cup white sugar, ^ cup molasses, 1 
tablespoon butter, 1 cup buttermilk or sour cream, 1 teaspoon 
soda, about 2 cups flour. — Mrs. Neil Ferguson, 

Dark Layer Cake 

Two eggs> 1 cup sugar, 2 cups flour, 1 tablespoon shorten* 
ing, scant ^ cup molasses, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 cup hot water, 
added last thing. B/ike iu slow oven, — Mrs. E. Legg. 

Coffee Cak«) 

One cup sugar, 2 eggs, 1 cup molasses, 2 cups shortening, 
2 cups raisins, 1 cup cold coffee, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon 
cinnamon, 1 teaspoon cloves, about 3 cups flour, — Maud Bray, 

Jelly Roll 

Two eggs, 1 cup granulated sugar, 5 tablespoon:? boiiing 
water, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder. Pinch salt. — Mrs. S, Herbert, 






% 



86 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



- Bnnana Cake 

Two egg's, i cup brown sugar, ^ cup granulated sugar, ^ 
cup shortening, ^ cup milk. 1 cup finely chopped bananas, 10c 
chopped nuts, 2 cups flour, a small teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon 
baking powder, vanilla and salt. Dates may be added if desired. 
— Mrs. Skene Smith. 

Ribbon Cake 

Two scant cups granulated sugar, | cup butter, 1 cup 
sweet milk, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 2 eggs, 2^ cups flour. 
Add chocolate t> > 1-3 of batter, and fruit coloring to other 
third. Bake in 3 layers. — Mrs. Walter Moore. 

JeUy RoU 

Three ', --r, well beaten, I cup yellow sugar, 1 cup flour, 
* large teaspoon baking, powder. Salt. Beat to a cream and 
then add two tea ons hot water and a little vanilla. — Mrs. 
W. H. Legg. 

Pork Cake 

One pound salt pork, | pint boiling water, 1 lb. raisins, 
seeded and chopped, i lb. citron peel, shaved into shreds, 2 
cups sugar, 1 cup molasses, 1 teaspoon soda rubbed fine, and 
add to molasses. Stir in flour as for any fruit cake. Then stir 
in 1 ounce each of nutmeg, cloves and cinnamon, ground. 
Pork must be entirely free of lean or rind chopped so fine as 
to be almost like lard. Then pour boiling water over it and 
add other ingredients. — Mr.c. Arthur Ferris. 

War Cake (Eggless) 

Two cups brown sugar, 2 cuj^s boiling water, 2 table- 
spoons lard, 1 teaspoon salt, | package raisins, spices to taste. 
Boil all together five minutes and let cool. Add 1 teaspoon soda 
dissolved in a little hot water, 3 cups flour. Bake 30 minutes. 
— Miss Edith Lowthtr, 

Pink arid White Marble Cake 

White Part — Whites of 2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1-3 cup butter, 
1 cup sweet milk, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 teaspoon 
pineapple. Flour to thicken so as to drop in chunks. 

Pink Part — Yolks of 2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1-3 cup butter. 
1 cup sweet milk, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, 1 teaspoon fruit color. Same amount flour used for 
white part^ Put into dish alternately, first white, then pink. — 
Mrs. Ed. Moroughan. 



■ '■m' 

'i':^. 



Thre 
there is 
beaten ej 
teaspoon 
1 teaspcK 



One 
raisins, - 
teaspoor 
Bake in 



On( 
beaten 
cream 
sugar a 
spoon, 
whites 
cool. Tl 
add ere 
fully ir 
angel c 
When 



W 

milk. 1 
Di 
milk, : 
2 egg 
mace, 
pan ti 
Mrs. : 

1 

eggs, 
flavo 

I 

cup s 
coco; 



Beat 
Mrs 



w 



^mmmum 



KINCSMTLL-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



87 



■1^'. 



a. 



Boiled Raisin Cake 

Three-quarter cup raisins boiled for 15 minutes so that 
there is 1 cup raisins and water combined. Let cool. Add 1 
beaten egg, ^ cup butter, J cups brown sugar. 1^ cups flour. 1 
teaspoon soda, dissolved in the raisins. 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 

1 teaspoon vanilla. — Mrs. D. C. McTaggart, 

Prince Albert Cake 

One cup brown sugar, 2 eggs, 2 cups flour, cup chopped 
raisins, | cup butter, 1 cup sour milk, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 
teaspoon cloves, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon baking powder. 
Bake in 2 layers. — Mrs. John Smith. 

Imperial Sunshine Sponge 

One and a half cups granulated sugar, ^ cup water, 6 eggs 
beaten separately, | teaspoon salt, 1 cup flour, f teaspoon 
cream of tartar, 1 teaspoon orange extract. Method — Boil 
sugar and water until it threads when dropped from tip of 
spoon. Pour the hot syrup in a fine stream on the beaten egg 
whites to which salt has been added, beating mixture until 
cool. Then add the well beaten yolks. Sift flour once, measure, 
add cream of tartar and sift again three times. Fold very care- 
fully into egg mixture. Add extract; Pour into an ungreased 
angel cake tin and bake 50 or 60 minutes in moderate oven. 
When done invert to cool. — ^Alta Holmes. 

Marble Cake 

White part — i cup butter, J cup white sugar, ^ cup sweet 
milk. 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 2 egg whites. 

Dark part — \ cvip butter, ^ cup brown sugar, i cup sweet 
milk, i cup molasses, 1^ cups flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 

2 egg yolks, ^ teaspoon each cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg and 
mace. Mix the two parts separately until very light. Put into 
pan taking care to arrange the light and dark alternately. — 
Mrs. Sam. Legg. 

Chocolate Marble Cake 

Light — f cup granulated sugar, ^ cup butter, whites of 2 
eggs, ^ cup sweet milk, 1 cup flour, i teaspoon baking powder, 
flavour with vanilla. 

Dark — f cup brown sugar, ^ cup butter, yolks two eggs, ^ 
cup sweet milk, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, ^ cup 
cocoa. — Mrs. Clayton Franklip. 

Cream Cake 

One cup sugj"^, IJ cups flour. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 
Beat 2 eggs very light, put in cup and fill up with cream. — 
Mrs. Bruce Erov.'n. 



! 



88 



KIXGSMfLL-MArLETOiV W. I. COOK BOOK 



White Mountain Cake 

Two cups sugar, | cup butter, 1 cup sweet milk. 3^ cups, 
flour, 2 eggs beaten lightly, 3 teaspoons baking powder. Salt, 
Flavor to taste. Bake in two layers, — Mrs. E. Durdle, 

White Cake 

Take whites of 2 eggs in a cup, put in enough butter to 
fill cup half full, then fill it with SAveet milk. Mix 1 cup white 
sugar, 1 and two-third cups pastry ilour, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder. Combine mixtures and beat seven minutes. — E, Mc- 
Intyre, 

Plain Cake 

One-quarter cup shortening, 1 cup sugar, 1 egg, I teaspoon 
vanilla extract, 1 cup milk, 2 cups flour, 3 teaspoons baking 
powder, | teaspoon salt. Creaqi shortening, add sugar slowly, 
add well beaten egg and flavoring. Sift together flour, baking 
powder and salt and add to mixture a little at a time, alterna- 
tely with milk. Bake in greased loaf, layer or patty, in 
mc^derate oven. Have used this receipe many times without 
egg, adding a little more baking powder, and was delicious. — 
Mrs. Roy Charlton. 

Jersey Lilly Cake 

Half cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup sweet milk, 2 eggs, 2^ 
cups flour, three small teaspoons Biaking' Powder, 
Beat whites of eggs separately, add them last. Put in half of 
batter, then put a layer of raisins and nuts, then rest of batter. 
— Mrs. S. Herbert. 

Mapleine Cake 

One cup stoned and chopped dates, 1 cup sugar, ^ ta- 
spoon soda, 1 cup nutmeats, 3 teaspoons baking powder, 3 
tablespoons butter, 1 egg^ 1 cup boiling water, pinch salt, 
li cups flour, 1 teaspoon Mapleine, Sprinkle the | teaspoon 
soda over chopped dates and add boiling water. Let stand to 
cool. Cream butter and sugar and Mapleine. Mix with dates. 
Beat egg and add salt and stir into mixture. Then add flour 
and baking powder, which should be sifted three times. Mix 
all and bake in a moderate oven about 25 m/Iuutes. — Mrs, 
Jas. G. Campbell. 

Ansel Cake 

Eleven egg whites whipped stiff, 1^ cups fine granulated 
sugar, 1 cup flour sifted four times, 1 teaspoon baking 
powder, ^ teaspoon cream tartar, 1 teaspoon flavouring, 
pinch of salt in eggs. Mix a« named. — Mrs. Jas. Moore. 






^ 



-^ 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. T. COOK BOOK 



80 



Mock Angel Cake 

One cup sugar, 1 cuj) flour, 1 heaping teaspoon baking 
powder, pinch salt, sifted together three times. Then add 1 
cup hot milk and lastly fold in the ti'fly beaten whites of 2 
eggs. — Mrs. G. E. Simpson. 

Crumb Cake 

Two cups flour, 1 cup white sugar, \ cup butter. Put into 
bowl and rub together. Take out a cupful. With the rest put 
in a cu]) of sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon cloves and 
ciimamon, 1 egg. cup of raisins, 1 cup currants. Beat all to- 
gether. Put into a dish to bake and sprinkle crumbs on top. 
— Mrs. Frank Weaver. 

Cher/y Cake 

Two eggs, 1 cup v;.auulated sugar. \ cup butter, 1^ cups 
flour, 2 tablespoons cream either sweet or sour, 1 teaspoon 
soda, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 1 cup canned cherries with 
no juice, 1 teaspo»)n vanilla. For Icing, use cherry juice with 
icing sugar. — Mrs. Cyril M. Williams. 

Burnt Sugar Cake 

One cup white sugar. Put into pan and let melt down and 
brown. Then add 1 cup boiling water. Let cool. 1 cup white 
sugar, 2 tablespoons butter. Cream this and add 2 eggs well 
beaten, salt, i burnt sugar mixture, reserving the other 
half for icing. Then add i cup milk, 1^ cups flour, ? teaspoons 
baking powder. 

Icing — Mix icing sugar, bvitt*"; aid the remainov r of the 
burnt sugar together. — Mrs. Arch. I erguscjn. 

Nut Cake 

One cup sugar. 2 eggs, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 
large cup chopped raisins, if desired, 1 '-up choppc d nut meats, 
i cup butter, | cup sweet milk. 1-^ cups flour. When baked 
and frosted mark the top in squares and place a nut meat in 
each square. — Mrs. S. Herbert. 

Nut Cake (Dark) 

One cup yellow sugar, butter size of walnut, 2 eggs, 'i 
cup sour cream. 1 teaspoon cinnamon, ^ teaspoon cloves, 1 
teaspoon soda dissolved in a little of the sour cream, 2 cups 
flour, 1 cup seeded raisins, nut meats as desired, or they may 
be omitted. Instead of using sour cream, rtt^p may use ^ cuj) 
sour milk and a heaping tablespoon 1) -t or domestic 
shortening. Salt and vanilla. —Mrs. Wm. ' . *-egg. 



B 



m 



i-i- ./«■, 



90 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



Comttarch Cake 

Two-thirds cup butter, v/liites of 7 egg^s, beaten to a 
froth, or 3 yolks and 4 whites, 1 cup milk, 1 cup corn starch, 
2 cups flour, 3 cups pulverized sugar, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder. Beat butter and sugar to a cream before adding 
other ingredients. — Mrs. Clayton Franklin. 

Orange Cake 

Cream together J cup butter or shortening, I cup white 
sugar, 1 egg, 5 cup sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda in milk, 2 cups 
flour, 1 cup raisins, grated peel of one orange. 

Icing — ^Juice of one orange and add icing sugar and but- 
ter. — Mrs. Walter Moore. 

Orange Cake 

One cup brown sugar, ^ cup butter. Cream butter and 
sugar together, 2 eggs, 1 cup sour milk with 1 teaspoon soda 
in milk. 1 whole orange and 1 cup raisins chopped together, 
li cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, — Mrs. Mac 
Mclntyre. 

Soft Gingtr Cake 

Two eggs, 1^ cups molas ( ;•, "* tablespoons butter, 1 
teacup milk, 2 teaspoons baking oowder, 2 cups flour. — Mrs. 
H. Peer. 

Date Cake 

One cup brown sugar, ^ cup butter, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon 
soda, 1 cup sour milk, i cup walnut meats, 1| cup dates, cut 
fine, 1 cup oatmeal, 1^ cups flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 
1 teaspoon vanilla. — Mrs. A. G. Campbell. 

Walnut Date Cake 

One cup brown sugar, i cup butter, 2 eggs» I cup sour 
milk, i teaspoon cloves, 1^ cups flour, 1 cup raisins, 1 cup 
dates, i cup walnuts chopped together, ^ teaspoon soda. — 
Mrs. J. Bray. 

Date Cake 

One cup dates stoned and cut into pieces, 1 cup hot water 
poured over the dates, 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in the water 
when warm, I cup butter, 1^ cups flour, 1 egg, 1 cup sugar. — 
Mrs. D. Ferguson. 

To remove orass stain from cotton o"oods wash the s'">ot- 
in alcohol. 



^i I ''#• 



I cu 
boil 



■iMHKBBaMaSs^^--; 






^^%: 



KINCSMTLl^-MArLETON W. 1. COOK BOOK 



91 



Raspberry Cake 

Two eggs. 1 cup granulated sugar, J cup butter, 1 cup 
raspberries, 1^ cups flour, 1 teaspoon soda sifted with flour. 
— Mrs. Cyril M. vv illiams. 

Devir* Food 

First part — 1 cu]) brown sugar, 1 cup '^^rated chocolatCi 
^ cu; sweet milk. Cook these ingredients togetaer ^ do I'ot 
boil. 



tf 



part 

rs,— 



Second Part — 1 cuj) brown sugar, J cup 1 
cup sweet milk, yolks 3 eggs, 1 teaspoon soaa. . 
before adding two cups flour. Bake in two or three 
^Irs. Edw, Holmes. 

Cocoa Fudge Cake 

One cup granulated sugar, 1 egg, ^ cup butter, or i cup 
sour cream. 1^ cups flour, i teaspoon salt, i cup sour milk, 2 
tablespoons cocoa dissolved in i cup boiling water, 1 teaspoon 
soda. Bake in a medium oven. — Mrs. Angus Miller. 

Chocolate Roll 

Beat 5 egg yolks slightly, then add ^ cup sugar and beat 
well again, then add \ cup cocoa, and 1 teaspoon of vanilla, 
and lastly the stiffly beaten egg whites and ^ cup sugar, first 
beaten together. Grease a shallow pan, line with a piece of 
greased paper, and let paper hang over short ends. Spread 
the batter in pan and bake 20 to 25 minutes in moderate oven. 

When done, turn out on a large stiff piece of paper, sprinkle 
with powdered sugar, then cover with a damp cloth. Have 
ready 1 cup whipping cream, whip until stiff, flavor with 
vanilla and sweeten with powdered sugar to taste. Spread 
over the cake and roll. Cover with chocolate fudge icing, and 
when ready to serve, cut in slices. (Serves 10). — Mrs. James 
Patterson. 

Chocolate Cak* 

Three heaping tablespoons cocoa, ^ cup sweet milk. Bring 
to boil and cook until thick. Remove from stove and add un- 
beaten yolks of 2 eggs. Let cool» then add 2 tablespoons 
butter, 1 cup white sugar, 1 teaspoon vanilla, J cup milk, salt, 
1^ cups flour, 1 small teaspoon soda. Bake in moderate oven. 
— Mrs. Arch. Ferguson. 

If food is burnt on a cooking dish do not scrape but put 
some wood ashes in it, half fill with water and let stand on 
the back of the stove for a few hours. 



:.i 



. .') 



. -^■'~? 




IMAGE EVALUATION 
TEST TARGET (MT-3) 




// 






1.0 



I.I 



11.25 



^ i^ 12.2 

S Bia |2.0 

•UUt. 



^ 



/i 



/2 



^l 



^ •) 




:^' 






/A 




w 



V 




Photographic 

Sciences 

Corporation 










23 WEST MAIN STRUT 

WEBSTER, N.Y. MSSO 

(716)872-4503 



92 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



Devil Cake 

One and ^ cups yellow sugar, ^ cup butter, y jlks 2 eggs, 
1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 cup sour milk, 1 cup chopped raisins, 
1 teaspoon soda, 1^ cups flour. Mix sugar and butter. Add 
yolks of eggs, put soda into milk, and add to other ingredients. 
Add cinnamon, flour and raisins. — Mrs. Walter Moore. 



Icings and Fillings 



Seven Minute Icing 

Seven-eighths of a cup of gran, sugar, 1 egg white, 3 
tablespoons water. Put all in a double boiler over boiling water 
and beat seven minutes with a dover beater. — Mrs. Don. 
McGregor. 

Brown Sugar Icing 

One cup brown sugar, 3 tablespoons milk and small lump 
of butter. Let this come to a boil. Remove from the stove 
and cool. Stir in icing sugar to the right consistency. Flavour 
with vanilla. — Mrs. John Smith. 

Boiled Icing 

Melt 1 teaspoon butter and add | cup gran, sugar and ^ 
cup milk. Boil till it begins to hair. Add 1 teaspoon vanilla and 
beat till creamy. — Eva Legg. 

Lady Baltimore Filling and Icing 

One-quarter lb. figs, i lb. raisins t lb. pecans or walnuts. 
2 cups gran, sugar, | cup water, ? eggs whites beaten stiff, 
1 teaspoon vanilla. Grind fruit and nuts together. Cook sugar 
and water to form soft ball when dropped in water. Pour 
syrup slowly on egg whites. Beat until it will stand alone. 
Add vanilla. Stir fruit and nuts into two-thirds of icing. Spread 
between layers and on top of cake. Cover entire cake with 
remaining icing. — Alta Holmes. 

French Frosting 

Boil without stirring 1 cup gran, sugar, one-third cup 
of water, one-eighth teaspoon cream tartar and flavouring. It 
is done when it forms a soft disk when dropped in cold water. 
Let stand without stirring until lukewarm and then beat till 
it is smooth and creamy. If it becomes grainy it has been 
cooked too long or has been stirred too long. This can be put 
in covered jars and used at any time. — Mrs. John Smith. 



f^Nwi4«a*;«.- 



KINGSMILL— MAPLETON W. I. COOK B^K)K 



93 






Mocha Icing 

^ Blanch and roast to a golden brown 1 cup almonds, pound 
quite fine and spread over cake on a soft butter and sugar 
icing. — Mrs. Archie Ferguson, 

Raisin Frosting 

One and i cup raisins chopped fine, l\ cups sugar and | cup 
water cooked until it threads from spoon. Pour over stifT ly 
beaten whites of two eggs, beat till thick, ac!i raisins and 
spread on cake. — Mrs. R; J. Ferguson. 

Almond Paste 

One cup gran, sugar, 1 egg, butter size of walnut, 2 table- 
spoons milk. Bert together to a cream. Bring to a boil, stirr- 
ing continuously. Boil 3 minutes. Remove from stove and 
stir in 1^ cups of almonds which have been blanched, dried and 
finely ground. Flavour with vanilla and almond extract. Stir 
till thick enough to spread on cake. — Myrtle Paddon. 

Mocha Icing 

Sift together 1^ cups icing sugar, 1^ tablespoons grated 
chocolate | teaspoon salt. Melt 2 tablespoons of butter in 3 
tablespoons of hot strong coffee. Mix dry ingredients with 
the wet, stir till smooth and spread on cool cake. — Myrtle 
Paddon. 

Cookies, Drop Cakes, Etc. 



Cocoanut Macaroons 

Whites of 3 eggs, beaten stiflf, add 1 cup granulated sugar, 
and 1 teaspoon vanilla to whites and put on stove and cook 
until it starts to stick to the sides of pan, remove, let cool and 
stir in 2 cups cocoanut and 2 tablespoons cornstarch. Bake in 
quick oven. — Mrs. Clayton Franklin. 

Cornflake Macaroons 

One small cup white sugar, 2 eggs, ^ cup butter, ^ tea'- 
spoon salt, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 1| teaspoons baking powder, 2 
tablespoons sweet milk, li cups flour, 4 cups cornflakes. Drop 
on buttered pans. — Miss Edith Lowther. 

Raisin Turnovers 

One cup Sultana raisins, 1^ soda biscuits put through the 
food chopper. Mix with one slightly beaten egg and 3 table- 
spoons sugar. Cut pastry with a large round cutter. Place a 
spoonful of mixture on half of it. Wet edges of pastry with 
cold water. Fold and press edges together with a fork. — Miss 
Edith McGregor. 



94 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



; \i. , Lemon Biscuits .j: - 

Two and ^ cups granulated sugar, 2 cups lard, 2 eggs beaten 
separately, 2 cups sweet milk, 10c oil of lemon, 10c baking 
ammonia, 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in the milk. Mix stiff, roll, 
brush top with milk and sprinkle with granulated sugar. Bake 
in hot oven. — Mrs. John Elgie. 

Maple Sugar Cakes 

Two cups sour milk, 1 cup shortening. Bowl full of shaved 
sugar (maple), 1 teaspoon soda. Flour enough to roll. — Mrs. 
R. J. Ferguson. 

Fried Cakes or Doughnuts 

Two cups granulated sugar, 2 cups sour milk, ^ cup 
shortening, 3 eggs. 2 teaspoons soda, 1 teaspoon baking 
jiowder. Beat sugar, shortening and eggs to a cream. Mix 
soft with flour. — Mrs. W. H. Legg. 

Fried Cakes 

One egg, f ci:p white sugar, 2 tablespoons melted lard 
(small), 3 teaspoons baking powder, ^ cup sweet milk. Vanilla 
a Httle salt, and flour enough to make dough. — Mrs. Sam 
Gar ton. 

Snowdrops or Sweet Milk Doughnuts 

Cream together 1 cup granulated sugar, 2 eggs. Butter 
size of -an egg, and ^ teaspoon salt. Add 2 teaspoons lemon 
extract and beat. Then 1 cup sweet milk and beat again. Then 
add 2 teaspoons baking powder and flour to make as stiff as 
pound cake. Drop from spoon into hot lard and roll in pul- 
verized sugar. — Mrs. J. Smith. 

Oatmeal Jam Jams 

Two cups flour, 2 cups rolled oats, 1 cup shortening, 1 
cup sugar, ^ teaspoon salt, ^ teaspoon cinnamon, 1 teaspoon 
soda in sour milk. Rub all ingredients together with the 
exception of the soda which should be dissolved in enough 
sour milk to hold. Mix two together. Roll thin, then fill with 1 
lb. of figs are dates, well cooked v*'ith 1 cup sugar anad a 
little water. — Mrs. A. Archibald. 

Jam Jam Cookies 

' Two eggs, 1 cup granulated sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 small 
teaspoon soda, pinch salt, 3 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder. Add more flour if necessary. Roll out as soft as 
possible, use fried cake cutter for top and any 



Tvl 
1 cup 
spoons 

Fi 
granul 



Oi 

mon a 
water 
peel. 
Mr. J 

C 

cup g 
spoor 
Fran] 



shorJ 
n ci 
Flavi 
Mrs. 



like 
mak 



hall 
Mi3 
spo 
Ad< 
par 









bottom. Teaspoon jam between. — Mrs. E. Legg. 



lai 
tes 
lit 

ba 






KINGSMlLl^MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



95 



on 



Apple Cockiet 

Two cups brown sugar, 2 eggs, 5 tablespoons sour milk, 
1 cup shortening (butter or lard), 2 teaspoons soda, 2 tea- 
spoons cream tartar. Flour to make soft dough. 

Filling — Grate 4 apples. Rind and juice of 1 lemon, 1 cup 
granulated sugar. Cook 10 minutes. — Mrs, Arthur Ferris. 

Fruit Drop Cakes 

One cup sugar, 2 eggs, 2-3 cups butter, 1 teaspoon cinna- 
mon and cloves, 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in a little warm 
water, 1^ cups flour, 1 cup chopped dates, rafsins, nuts and 
peel. Drop on buttered pan and bake in a moderate oven. — 
Mr. John Elgie. 

Jumbles (Drop Cookies) 

One pound dates chopped fine, \ lb. nut meats, 3 eggs, 1 
cup granulated sugar, i cup butter, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 3 table 
spoons water, 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon soda. — Mrs. Clayt" 
Franklin. 

Banana Drop Cookies 

Two eggs, i cup brown sugar, ^ cup white sugar, ^ cup 
shortening, ^ cup sweet milk, 1 banana chopped, 10c nut meat, 
1^ cups flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, ^ teaspoon soda. 
Flavor with vanilla and pinch salt. Bake in muffin pans. — 
Mrs. A. Moore, 

Scotch Short Bread 

One cup butter, i cup brown sugar, 2 cups flour. Mix 
like pie crust, but use no water. Roll thick. Above recipe 
make's about two dozen cakes. — Mrs. Margaret Ferguson. 

Bran Cookies 

Half cup sugar, ^ cup shortening, one egg, i cup water, 
half cup raisins, half cup chopped nuts, 2i cups bran. 
Mix following — 1 cup flour, ^ teaspoon baking soda, 1 tea- 
spoon cinnamon, 1^ teaspoons baking powder, ^ teaspoon salt. 
Add to bran mixture. Drop from teaspoon on greased baking 
pan. — Mrs. Eardly Finch. 

Baker's Ginger Snaps 

One cup coffee sugar, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup butter and 
lard mixed, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 tablespoon ginger, nearly ^ 
teaspoon black pepper. Mix ingredients, dissolve soda in a 
little hot water. Add as much flour as can be stirred in, not 
kneaded. Cut off pieces size of marbles, slightly flatten and 
bake on greased tins. — Mrs. R. J. Ferguson. 



96 



KINGSMILI^MAFLETON W. L COOK ffOOK 



Nut Bar» 

Half-cup sfiorieningr li cups sugar, 2 eggs, 4 tablespoons; 
milk, 4 cups flour, 1-8 teaspoon salt. Method— Cream shorten- 
tng and sugar. Add 1 beaten yofk and beaten wbites of two 
eggs. Add milk, mix well. Sift together flour, salt and baking 
powder. Mix all together. Roll out half at a time \ inch thickr 
cut in bars I'^x 3," brush with egg^ yolk mixed with one table- 
spoon water. Sprinkle with chopped nuts. Bake in moderate 
oven 15 minutes. — Mrs. E, Legg, 

Date Cnimbfeff 

One and ^ cups oatineal, li cups, flour, I teaspoon sodai 
(dry), ^ teaspoon salt, 1 cup sugar, ^ cup butter. Crumb- 
together. Put half in long cake tin, spread filling, then add 
the remainder of crumbs. 

Filling — Half lb, dates, f cup yellow sugar, f cup water,, 
vanilla. Cook until thick. Bake in a moderate oven. Leave in 
tin until cool. Cut into squares. — Mrs. J, C, Simpson, 

Ginarer Drop Cookies 

One cup brown su3;ar, 1 cup molasses, ^ cup shortening, 
1 egg, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 cup sour milk, 4 
cups flour (or sufficient flour to make the batter stifif enough 
for drop cookies). Cream the shortening, sugar and -alt 
together. Add molasses. When mixed add the beaten egg. 
Dissolve the soda in the sour milk. Add, and mix thoroughly. 
Last, add the flour. Drop teaspoonful of the batter on greased 
baking pan and bake in a hot oven. — Eva M, Legg. 

Oatmeal Drop Cookies 

One cup brown sugar> 1 cup shortening, pinch salt, 2 
tablespoons black strap, 1 cup boiling water, 1 teaspoon 
vanilla, 2 small teaspoons soda, 3 cups flour, 3 cups oatmeal. 
Drop by spoonful. — Mrs. J. A. Evert. 

Sour Cream Cookies 

Two eggs, li cups granulated sugar, 1 cup shortening, 1 
cup thick sour cream. 1 teaspoon soda. Lemon or nutmeg. 
Mix very soft and bake in quick oven. — Mrs, John Smith, 

Rock Cookies 

Three eggs, 1^ cups yellow sugar, 1 cup melted butter. 
Beat these together. Add 1 teaspoon soda, 1 cup flour, 1 lb. 
dates stoned and cut in halves. 10c chopped walnuts. Add 
enough flour to make rather stifif, and drop on pans the size 
of a Walnut. — Mrs. Walter Moore. , ., :-. ^ -^ • , 



• .?" 9 ^ " ■ " ' 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. 1. COOK BOOK 



97 



Cookies 

One and | cups |,ranulated sugar, 1 cup sour milk, IJ citps 
■shortening, 1 egg, little nutmeg, 2 teaspoons soda, little salt^ 
Flour to roll.-^Mrs. Clarence Rogers. 

Date Cookies 

Two cups light brown sugar, 3 eggs, 1 cup butter, or butter 
and lard mixed, | cup sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda, any flavoring 
desired, flour to make dough stiff enough to roll. Cut with 
•cookie cutter and on each, place a piece of date. Bake in a 
quick oven, — Mrs. R. McGregor. 

Butter Scotch Cookies 

Two cups brown sugar, 1 small cup butter, 2 eggs well 
beaten , 1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon cream tartar, 1 teaspoon 
vanilla, 2 cups flour, 1 cup raisins or dates chopped fine. Mix 
all together, and form in a long roll. Let stand in a cool place 
over night, then slice in the morning and bake, — Mrs. Albert 
Archibald, 



Pastry, Pies, Tarts and Cream Puffs 



Pie Crust 

One heaping cup lard, 1 cup flour, 1 large teaspoon baking 
powder, | cup water. Saft. Beat thoroughly with a fork. Then 
add flour enough to roll. — Mrs. W. H. Legg. 



Hot Water Pastry for One Pie 

Haff cup lard, i cup boiling water, ^ teaspoon salt. Put 
lard in a bowl, add the boiling water and salt. When dis- 
solved and lukewarm, stir in the flour to make a dough that 
can be rolled. It is better chilled before using. — Miss Edith 
McGregor, 

Grapenut Raisin Pie 

Three-quarters cup grape nuts, f cup raisins (seeded and 
chopped), 1^ cups brown sugar, 2i cups hot water in which 
put i cup vinegar, 3 t?.blespoons butter. Mix in the order 
given and cook ten minutes. Cool. Put in paste lined plate and' 
cover with i" wide strips i" apart to form lattice top. Trim. 
Now moisten the edge and finish with i" strip around the 
edge. Brush the strips with brush dipped in milk. Bake 40 
minutes in a not too hot oven. — Mrs. D. 0= White. 



9S 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETOK W. I. COOK BOOK 



M«pk Syrup Pi« 

One and \ cups Maple Syrup, 2 tablespoons flour, yolks 2 
eggs, lump butter, vanillji. Bring syrup to a boil and add but- 
ter and vanilla. Mix flour in water to a smooth paste, and add 
yolks of eggs. Then stir into boiling syrup. — Mrs. Cyril M. 
Williams. - 

Raisin Pie 

One cup raisins, | cup white sugar, 1 cup water, 1 table- 
spoon flour, 1 teaspoon butter, 1 teaspoon vinegar, and a little 
nutmeg. Boil 20 minutes. Bake between two crusts. — Grace 
Charlton. 

Raisin Caramel Pie 

One cup brown sugar, 2 cups milk, 1 cup seeded raisins, 
2 egg yolks, 2 tablespoons cornstarch. 1 tablespoon butt»ir, 
1 teaspoon vanilla, salt. Cook and fill baked pie shell. Ice top 
with egg whites. — Mrs. Don. McGregor. 

Date Pie 

Cook 2 cups pitted dates with | cup sugar^ and scant ^ 
cup water, until dates are tender. Put between two crusts and 
bake. — Mrs. Ed. Holmes. 



table 
cinnj 

eggs 
abou 



spo( 
stai 
pint 
bro 



sui 
ab 
Co 



Banana Pie 

Bake lower crust. Fill with sliced bananas and powdered 
sugar. Cover top with whipped cream, and serve at once, — 
Mrs. G. E. Simpson. 

Rhubarb Pie 

Two cups cut rhubarb (scald by pouring on boiling water 
and let stand), 1 cup sugar, yolk of 1 egg, 1 tablespoon flour, 
butter. Put in crust and bake. Use white for frosting and 
brown. — Mrs. W. H. Legg, 

Custard Pie 

Two eggs, 3 tablespoons sugar, 1^ cups milk, 1-8 tea- 
spoon salt, nutmeg. — Mrs. H. Peer. 

Squash or Pumpidn Pie 

One and i cups strained or mashed squash or pumpkin, ^ 
jcup sugar, 1 egg, ^ teaspoon nutmeg, 7-8 cup milk. — Mrs. H. 
Peer. 

Smoked ceilings, when darkened by kerosene lamps or 
coal-oil stoves may be cleaned by washing with soda water. 



|r# 



St 

ai 
u 
a 
n 



KINCSMILI^MAPLETON W. 1. COOK BOOK 



M 



Sour Craam Pi* 

One cup granulated sugar, 1 cup thick sour cream, 1 
tablespoon flour. (Mix sugar and flour together), | teaspoon 
cinnamon and a little nutmeg, 1 cup raisins or dates, yolks 2 
eggs, i teaspoon salt. Beat the two whites very stiff with 
about i cup sugar for the top. — Mrs. S, Parkes, 

PiiiMVple Pi« 

One and i cups grated pineapple, 1 cup sugar, 1 table- 
spoon butter, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon flour and 1 teaspoon corn- 
starch. Cream sugar, butter, egg yolks and flour, and add 
pineapple, and bake in crust. Beat whites, put on top and 
brown, — Mrs. S, Curtis. * ■ . 

Cranberry Pi* 

One cup cranberries split in halves* 1 cup granulated 
sugar, 1 heaping tablespoon flour, i cup cold water. Mix 
above ingredients together. Pour into an uncooked crust» 
Cover with another crust and bake.^Miss Edith McGregor. 



,* 



Lemon Sponge Pie 

One cup granulated sugar, butter size of an tgg, 2 table- 
spoons flour, i teaspoon salt, yolks 2 eggs. Cream together 
and add the juice and grated rind of a large lemon and 1 cup 
milk. Fold in the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs. Put into 
an unbaked pie shell and bake in a slow oven about SO 
minutes. — Myrtle M. Paddon. 

Dainty Lemon Pie 

Slice of bread 1" thick. Take off crust, place bread in a 
bowl, add a little salt, 1 dessertspoon butter, and 1 cup b">'ling 
water. Beat until smooth. Add 1 cup sugar, juice of one 1' ion, 
yolks two eggs, well beaten. Bake in rich crust. Whe'. cool, 
add meringue and return to oven to brown. — Mrs. James 
Patterson. 

Cocoa Pie 

Two tablespoons cocoa, 2 tablespoons flour, 1 cup sugar, 1 
or 2 yolks of eggs, 1 teaspoon butter, cup hot water. Little 
salt. This fills one pie crust. Beat whites oi eggs stiff. Add 
a little sugar and spread on top. Then brown. — Mrs» W. H. 
Legg. 

To prevent clothes from freeaing to the wire line> wipe 
the line with a cloth wrung out of strong salt and water. 



100 



KINGSMILL-MAPLETON W. I. COOK BOOK 



Butter Scotch Pie 

One cup very dark brown sugar, 1^ tablespoons flour, 1 
tablespoon butter, yolks 2 eggs (whites for frosting), 1 cup 
sweet milk. Cook in double boiler and put in baked crust. — 
Mrs. C. A. Rogers. 

Butter Scotch Pie 

One cup brown sugar, | cup hot water, f cup milk. 2 table- 
spoons flour, (mixed with sugar), yolks of 2 eggs, pinch salt, 
1 tablespoon butter. Cook until thick, then add 1 tablespoon 
vanilla. Beat whites of eggs for meringue. Put in oven and 
brown. — Mrs. Arch. Ferguson. 



Mincemeat 

Four lbs. lean meat, boiled and chopped fine. 1^ lbs. suet, 
9 lbs. apples, 3 lbs. raisins. 2 lbs. currants, ^ lb. citron, 5 lbs. 
sugar, 3 teaspoons cloves, 10 teapoons cinnahion, 5 teaspoons 
mace, 1 teaspoon black pepper, 6 tablespoons salt, 1 quart can- 
ned grape juice and vinegar mixed with 1 quart maple syrup. 
Mix together and add juice and rind of 2 lemons. — Alta 
Holmes. 

Green Tomato Mincemeat 

Chop fine 1 peck green tomatoes. Wash in weak brine in 
collander, to remove all juice boil a little. Add to this 5 lbs. 
brown sugar, 2 lbs. raisins, 2 lbs. currants, cloves, cinnamon, 
allspice, to taste, also plenty of candied peel. Seal in glass jars, 
or keep in open jar, with a weight on top of a plate to keep 
mincemeat under the juice. — Mrs. D. O. White. 

Cdcoanut Pie 

One soda biscut (rolled fine), 1 cup sweet milk, yolks of 2 
eggs, 3 tablespoons granulated sugar, 1 tablespoon cocoanut. 
Cook until it thickens. Bake the crust first, thea add custard, 
and use whites of eggs for frosting. — Mrs. W. H. Legg. 

Ta£Fy Tiarts 

One egg, 1 cup brown sugar, 1 tablespoon corn syrup. 
Fill tart shells half full and bake in a quick oven. Cocoanut 
may be added. — Mrs. R. J. Ferguson. 

Lemon Curd for Tarts or Cake Filling ^ 

Two eggs, 2 cups granulated sugar, juice and grated rind 
of 2 lemons. Cook in double boiler. Put in unbaked tarts and 
bake in rather quick oven. Will keep for a month in an ordi- 
nary jar. — Mrs. Don. McGregor. 



litt 
Co 



a 

cfl 






p; 



1 1.' 



s 



iM # 



If'; 



15 m*^ 



V 



KING 



^^,M« W 1. COOK BOOK 



101 









^ 



Twrt Fining . ^ yolks 2 eggs. 

^' one cup nut meats cV^opP^i^^^S^ un>^^s and baUe. 

T«rt Fining ^ ^^g,, 

one c„p cu.a- | c»P ^-n .«.»., ic^P^^,^,. ,-„, ... 

Orange Pie ^^^^^^ ^ ^up 

Butter TarU . • „ i tablespoon 

. a 1 CUP brown sugar. 1 cup raisins 

One egg, 1 ^"P "„:iia, ninch of salt. r«^ "" r> t Fer- 
butter. 1 teaspoon vanilla^ p^^^^^ ^^, bake.--Mrs. R. J 

stove and let men. 

g>«""- Pi»-»«*''^r^,u 13 CUP sugar. Add 

fe> M?s D A. Ferguson. ____—— ' 

"Hi^ Class Hats 

At the Lo«)est Possibk Prices 

AliDays in Stock. 
WesultCientaethafP^-iatethe latest 

and smartest. 
^^**Ernf^-^^^ 



102 



KINCSMILL-MAPLETON W. I. ('fK)K BOOK 



Maple Syrup Tarts 

One egg" (beaten), 1 large cup maple syrup. Bake in 
shells with a walnut meat in centre of each, or a spuouful of 
cocoanut. — Mrs. Don. McGregor, 

Fruit BaskeU (Tarts) 

Bake plain paste over inverted patty tins. Roll paste 1-8" 
thick and cut in strips \" wide. Twist strips in pairs and bake 
over 1 lb. baking powder box, thus making haiid'es. Fill cases 
with sliced peaches, sprinkled generously with sugar. Insert 
handles and garnish with whip cream. Strawberries, raspber- 
ries or any fruit may be usecl. — Mrs, Walter Mctore. 

Hickory Nut Tarts 

Mix 1 cup of hickory nutmeats with 1 cup sugar, i cup 
Sultana raisins, 2 tablespoons cream, yolks 2 eggs, and a 
pinch of salt. Line tartlet tins with good pie crust and divide 
the mixture into them. Bake in hot oven for 15 minutes. 
Cover with whipped cream and serve. — Miss Alta Holmes. 

y 1 

'": ' Date Tarts 

One large cup white sugar, 4 tablespoons water, 1 cup 
chopped dates, whites 2 eggs. Boil water and sugar until u 
threads, then gradually beat syrup into the stilily beaten 
whites. Add dates and beat. Line patty pans with puflf paste 
and fill. Bake in moderate oven. — Mrs. Arch. Ferguson. 

Cream Puffs 

Half cup butter melted in 1 large cup boiling water. Stir 
in 1 cup flour, let cool. Add 3 eggs, beating them in one at a 
time. Drop batter from teaspoon and bake 20 minutes in oven 
suitable for bread. When cool, cut open and fill with whipped 
cream. — Maud Bray. 



Pr 



be 

pi 
w 






The most obstinate tea stains may be removed by apply- 
ing e'^ual parts of glycerine and egg yolk to the stain. Let it 
dry and then wash out with cold water. 

To prevent doors from creaking, pour a little oil on the 
hinges or even a little soap will sometimes stop it. 

A good way to clean leather chairs is to rub with the 
stiffly beaten whites of eggs and then polish with a soft cloth. 

Salt applied dry will remove t^g stains on silver spoons. 



V 



4.'. 



v ♦• 












103 



o 



preserving and Canning Meats and the Day 
PreservinB ^^^ sutchenng 

C«»»a B«< or V«i«» ,^„ „f 

r- , ,.ltc-^ large enough t'>,P"' '"it'beef is lean put in a 

e*nerJ»rrf-M"s. A. M"'- 

?r.<!J!M";"%o,rMcGregor. 

Brine for Pork ^^^^^ 

i '^ "Sitke into ffie Vnd po"r "ver pork-Mrs, W 

Brin. M.a, wi* OM «d.o^ S-*-*,^^t, 4 oz, 

LrfoVt-iiif b7i:e^u"%e i"^^^^^^^^^^^^^ 

H«»««»« P»* ^"*^* „3ually made 
scraps and ^d bits and^ — tU^^^ 
l^^^rJ^o.i^'Jt^Zl G»eVt' ira 

P„AS«J.amDriK.i»« ^^ 

i " F„sh pork may be fried ab^st ^^.^^ly a 



«« 



49 



104 



KINGSMrLL-MAPLETON" W. I. COOK BOOTC 



Canned Chicken 

Cut the fowl inta convenient pieces, pack into jars, add I 
teaspoon salt in top of jar. Adjust top and cook in hot water 
bath for 4 hours, seal and invert. 

Canned Chicken 

Cut fowl into convenient pieces and boil lill the meat cam 
be taken from bones. Take the meat from the bones and pack 
into jars. Fill the jar v/ith liquid in which chicken was boiled 
(this should be boiled ten minutes after chicken is removed.) 
Add teaspoon salt adjust top and cook in the usual way in hot 
water bath for 3 hour*. 






Miscellaneous 
Beverages, Home Remedies, First Aid Hmts, Etc, 



Sterilized Sweet Cider 

Take the cider the day after it is made, bring' to the boil- 
ing point and seal. This will remain as sweet as when made, 
and chilled makes an excellent summer drink. 

Cough Mixture 

Five cents worth each of, oil of annice, oil of pepper- 
mint, and oil of laudanum. Add this to 1 pint of syrup, 

WaUiing Fluid 

Five cents salts of tartar, 5c cookingf ammonia and 1 can 
Gillett's Lye. Put altogether, adding 1 qt. rain water. Stir 
until dissolved. Add 3 qts. water. Use 1 cup of this fluid for 
an ordinary washing. 

Excellent Hand Lotion 

Equal parts of glycerine, alcohol and witch hazel shaken 
together. — Mrs. N. Curtis, 

Royal Cream for Chi4>ped Hand» 

Put in glasi fruit jar 1 pint tepid rain water, | oz. gum 
tragacanth. Let stand 3 days and add 1 oz. alcohol, 2 ozs. ' 
glycerine, i oz. rose water and 2 ozs. cologne. — Mrs. J. Drake. 

If lemons are heated before squeeing a lot more juice can 
be obtained. 




inNGSMlLL-MAPLETON W. 1. COOK BOOK 



105 



Remedjy for Bums 

Equal quantities raw Jinseed oiJ and lime water. — Mrs. 
Cyril Williams, 

Health Salts 

Ten o:zs. icing sugar, 2 oz. Epsom salts, 2 02. baking soda> 
2 oz. cream tartar, 2 az. tartaric acid, 2 oz. citrate of mag- 
nesia. Roll and mix altogether thoroughly and keep in a tight 
jar. Put one teaspoon in a glass of water and drink while still 
foaming. Once you have used this recipe you will never be 
without it in the house. — Mrs. Roy McGregor, 

What to Do in Case of Emergencies 



■ -M^ 



Fainting 

When a person faints stretch them flat on the floor or 
on a couch with the head lower than the feet. Loosen cloth- 
ing and give the patient fresh air. This is sufficient treat- 
ment for an ordinary faint. The face may be wiped with a 
handkerchief wet with cold water bat no not dash water in 
the face as is so often done. 



Poison 

If poison is swallowed, send for a doctor but do not wait 
for his arrival as seconds count. Stir about a teaspoon of salt 
and the same quantity of mustard in a half glass of water. 
Hold the patients nose so tightly that he must open the mouth 
for breath." When the mouth opens put in the solution. If the 
patient does not vomit make him swallow a raw egg white. 
Follow with a cup of strong coffee as a stimulant. 



Blading 

In case of severe bleeding determine whether it is an 
artery or vein which has been severed. If an artery the blood 
will come in spurts as the heart beats» if a vein> it will flow 
evenly. In either case tie a handkerchief or bandage loosely 
near the wound. If it is an artery put it between the wound 
and the heart and if it is a vein put it on the other side of the 
incision. Put a stick in the slack of the bandage and turn it 
round and round till it is pulled up very tight and causes 
decided pressure. 



4Kk, 



> 



-9'.'^:: ' 



106 



KINGSMlLL-MAPLETOiV W. I. COOK BOOK 



ChokinfT 

Hold up the left arm above the head, strike the patient a 
smart blow between the shoulders. 



Nose Bleed 

Hold the head back and apply ice cold cloths or snow Uf 
the top of the nose and back of the neck. Plug the nostrils 
with batting-. 

Sunstroke or Heatstroke 

Place the patient in a cold bath and ])ack the head in ice if 
possible and if not use cold water packs which must be 
ihanged every few minutes. C\)ntinue this treatment till the 
doctor arrives unless however the temperature drops to 
normal. 

* Burns and Scalds 

If a child's clothing catches fire force her to lie down so 
the flames will not .each the head, if cold water is at hand 
dash it on, otherwise roll tightly in something woollen, a mat, 
blanket, shawl t)r overcoat. Do not try to beat out flames as 
this only fans them. Smother them instead. Treat burns and 
scalds much the same. Remove clothing by cutting, cover the 
spot with a soft linen cloth wet with boric acid solution or 
cover with boric acid ointment. Cover this with oiled cot- 
ton or silk to exclude the air as much as possible. Surround 
ihe body with hot water bottle* and if possible give hot strong 
coffee. 

Frostbites 

Keep away from heat. Apply snow or cold water to the 
frozen part and gently rub with fur or a wot)llen muffler. Be 
sure to draw .out frost without heat. 



•f 



f 



■4 


4 
2 




1 


■■I-' 


1 




1 


"■ .' " 


10 




2 




2 


'a 


16 


I, 


2 
1 


-• 


3 


'Ji» 


4 



Handy Weights and Measures 

cups flour equal 1 pound or 1 quart, 
tablespoons flour equals 1 ounce, 
tablespoon butter equals 1 ounce. 
cup butter equals I pound, 
pint butter equals one pound, 
eggs equals one pound, 
cups granulated sugar weighs one pound, 
teaspoons liquid equals one tablespoon, 
tablespoons equals a cup. 
cups equal a pint, 
pint of liquid weighs about a pound, 
teaspoons dry material make one tablespoon, 
teaspoons liquid make one tablespoon. 
Butter the size of an ejrg weighs an ounce. 



'^ 



/ 

A' 



^ 



^ 



