Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for general ions on library shelves before il was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

Il has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often diflicult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parlies, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the plus We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a b<x>k is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 

countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means il can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's hooks while helping authors ami publishers reach new audiences. You can search through I lie lull text of this book on I lie web 
at |http : //books . qooqle . com/| 



Samuel and Narcissa CI beri 
Collection 

TheSchlesinger t i b r a y 



f 



5 






yv^ 



t 



~x 



sr*\ 



m 



<r7-S r £-k^L.£*'>&-c**~+ i~J 



-i 



4 



\ 



\ 






V 



Q) 



CULINA 

Famulatrix Medicine : 

or; 

RECEIPTS IN MODERN COOKERY j 



WITH 

A MEDICAL COMMENTARY, 

t 

WRITTEN BT 

I G N O T U S, 

AND REVISED BT 

A. HUNTER, M.D. F.R.S. L. &E. 

2ui Stomachum regem totius corporis esse coatendhuit, rera 
niti ratione videntur. .., Smews Sammomcus. 

'SSSSSSSSSSESSSSSSSSSSSSSSSESZZSSSSSSmSS^ 

THE THIRD EDITION. 



YORK: 

Printed by T. Wilton and R. Spcncc, High-Outegftta 

For J. Mawman, in the Poultry, London, and for 

Wilson and Spence, York j. 

Sold also by J. White, Fleet-street, and J. Haedinq, St James's 

Street, London; A. Constable and Co. Edinburgh; 

and by J. Todd, Sotreean and Son, and 

J. WoiSTENHQlMB, York, 

1806.. 



■%. _. 



DEDICATION. 



To those Gentlemen who freely give two 
Guineas for a Turtle Dinner at the Tavern, 
when they might have a mote wholesome 
one at Home for ten Shillings, this Work is 
humbly dedicated by 



IGNOTUS. 



PREFACE. 



J. HE art of Cookery boasts an origin coeval 
with the creation of man ;, but in its early stages 
we must suppose that it was directed only to the 
wants and necessities of mankind. In process of 
time, invention was employed in rendering, animal 
and vegetable substances more inviting to the 
palate, with a view to add pleasure to the natural 
necessity of eating. And that this was the origin 
of refined Cookery cannot be questioned.. Apicius * 
seems to have cultivated the art with great assi- 
duity ; being, in bis own person a Gourmand of 
quality. There were three persons of that name} 
all lovers of good eating ; but Cselius Apicius, 
wbo lived in the time of Tiberius, is the one who 

A. 3 



*/ 



( « ) . 

has left u* the history of Roman Cookery.*— 
Of this book, the best edition was printed in Lon- 
don, in the year 1705, with notes by Dr. Martin 
Lister, Physician to Queen Anne. It contains a 
variety of Sauces, as wtetl ag aq account of the 
choicest Dishes served up at the tables of the 
Roman Nobility j but which, according to our no- 
tions of good eat tog, are- no better than what may 
be seen in the kitchen of a Hottentot. I cannot 
learn /much of the Grecian Cookery beyond ibe 
Black Broth of Lacedajmon; which probably was 
the same as Sheep's-head Broth, well knoxyn and 
deservedly admired by the inhabitants of our sister 
kingdom ; and long may it, and Roast Beef, be the 
pride and glory of this happy island. Dishes sim- 
ple-iri themselves, and easily prepared, mark the 
manners and morality of a natron. When England 
discards Roast Beef, and Scotland ceases to pride 
herself on Sheep's-head Broth and Oatmeal For- 
ridge, we may fairly Conclude that the nations are 
about to change their ihanly and national charac- 
ters. It may be objected to nie, that I am' endea- 
vouring to accelerate this degeneracy; but, in 
truth, I have no-such intention : my design is, to 
be of use to Gentlemen of the Medical Line, by 



■ t 1 ■ ) 

laying before them a list of the most approved 4 

Dtthes served up at the tables of the great ; so 

that when a Physician happens to be called in to 

visit a tick Lord, an Earl, or a Duke, he may be 

abfe to prescribe scientifically , having obtained from 

me the analysis of a great man's mode of living. 

The celebrated Ramazini's Treatise on the diseases 

to which artizans are subject from their manner of 

working in their respective trades, first suggested 

to me the idea, that a similar attention to the diet 

of certain classes of men would be of use to the 

medical practitioner. Unwilling, however, to 

appear as a professional Cook, I have occasionally 

* 

treated the subject with a degree of levity. But 
at the same time, I wish to be understood as think- 
ing the subject worthy of serious consideration* 

I do not consider myself as hazarding any thing 1 

when I say, that no man can be a good physician 
who has not a competent knowledge of Cookery. 
And in this I am supported by every eminent 
physician, from Hippocrates down to Syden- 
ham ; all of whom were strenuous promoters of 
the practice named Dietetics; in other words, 
" Cookery." Culina medicirue Famulatriv.'— 

DONATUS. 



( 8 ) 
As a subordinate consideration to my design, 
I had in view the benefit that would arise te some 
future member of the Society of Antiquaries, who 
may be disposed to employ his time in tracing 
the progress of Cookery from the time of Apicius 
to his own day. 

All the books of Cookery that I have perused, 
seem to be greatly deficient in the directions given 
for prepariug the respective Dishes. A penny- 
worth of this, and a pinch of that, are vague ex- 
pressions, and may prove the source of much 
doubt in the mind of some future Culinary Histo- 
rian. Even at this day, the same dish cannot be 
prepared exactly alike by two different persons. 
A Book of Cookery should, as nearly as possible, 
resemble a College Dispensatory, where the quan- 
tities are correctly stated, in consequence of the 
bulk of the composition being previously deter- 
mined upon ; but in the Culinary Art, where the 
quantity contained in the dish cannot be ascer- 
tained, we are unavoidably left, in many cases, 
to depend on the taste and judgment of the Cook, 
into whose hands we commit the health of our- 
selves and posterity. 



^s^magBSBswer— *- - 1 •■■ mm 



I 

i 



i » \ 

i 

i 

This work being^ a collection of the most ap» 
proved Culinary Receipts, without order or me- 
thqd, I flatter myself' that the correct Housekeeper 
will not deem it the less worthy on that account. 
I have not made this Collection for the use of the 
ignorant Cool: ; I therefore wish the. Receipts to 
be perused only by such as have made a consider- 
able progress in the Culinary Art, and who may 
be desirous of knowing the alterations and im- 
provements that are daily making by those who 
have ft pride and interest in being considered as 
at the head of their profession. 

* - - * 

I do not deny my intention of giving a pleasing 
gratification to 'those Gentlemen who unfbrtuf 
BBtely «eem to live only for the " pleasure of ' 
eating;'* but at the same time I hope to obtain 
spine credit for making the Faculty better ac- 
- quainted with that part of medicine which passes 
under the name of Dietetics. 

Some persons may consider me (being a m&li- 
caiman) as one who has stepped out of the line 
of his profession y but having good grounds for 
jny conduct, I do not feel myself disposed to be 



y 



i 



$ 






( 1« ) { 

of their opinion; On the contrary, I consider 
myself as having contributed to the advancement \ 
of my profession by a due mixture of the uttxb 
and dulce. 

I have not the vanity to suppose that every 
dish in this small volume will stand the criticism 
of professed Cooks ; but in justification of my se- 
lection, I beg leave to observe, that most of the 
receipts have been transmitted to me from persons 
of established reputation in the Culinary Art* 
Throughout the whole of this collection I have 

• ■ • <r 

I 

steadily adhered to the opinion of Archaeus, for 
whom 1 entertain the greatest veneration, on ac- 
count of his impartiality and judgment in all 
matters that concern the stomach ; an organ, over 
which the ancients supposed that he held an un- 
controlled dominion. 

When we consider the delicacy of the internal 
structure of the stomach, and the high and essen- 
tial consequence of its office, we may truly say, 
that in spite of the guardianship of Arcbaeus, it is 
treated with too little tenderness and respect on 
our parts. The stomach is the prime organ of 



'■* i — 



C. 11 ) 

to human . system, upon the state of which alt 
tke powers and feelings of the individual depend. 

t * 

Qui Stomachum regem totius corporis esse contend unt, 
vera niti rttioae videnftir . S&enus Sammonicus. 

The Stomach k the kitchen that prepares our dis- 
cordant food, and which, after due maceration, it 
delivers over by a certain undulatory motion, to 
the intestines, where it receives a further concoc- 
tion. Being now reduced into a white balmy 
fluid, it is sucked up by a set of small vessels, 
called Lacteals, and carried to the Thoracic duct* 
This duct runs up the back-bone and is in length 
about sixteen inches, but. in diameter it .hardly 
exceeds a crow quill. Through this small tube, 
the greatest part of what is taken in at the mouth 
passes, and when it has arrived at its greatest 
height, it is discharged into the left subclavian 
vein, when mixing with the general mass of blood, 
it becomes, very soon, blood itself. 

A thousand other operations are carried on in 
the animal machine, but which it will be unne- 
cessary to mention in this place, they being only 
secondary agents to the stomach and intestines. 



» 

/ 

t 






I 



f 



V 



( 13 I 

Were it possible for us to view tbrowgfe the shift 
and integuments, the mecbanittn of ou* bodied 
after the manner of a watchmaker when he 

^ * 

examines a watch, we should be struck with an 

awful astonishment ! Were we to see the stomach 

\ 

and intestines busily employed in the concoction 
of our food by a certain uridulatory motion ; the 
heart working, day and night, like a forcing pump ; 
the lungs blowing alternate blasts ; the humours 
filtrating through innumerable strainers ; together 
with an incomprehensible assemblage of tubes, 
valves, and currents,- all actively and unceasingly 
employed in support of our existence, we could 
hardly he-induced to stir from our places ! 

IGNOTUS. 



** 



CVLINA 

Pamvlatrix Medicixm. 

'»''"■ inn t i iliM^w*^wt»iMi> ■ ■■■ | . ! PfTy - P1 

To mbjlx Butter. 

JL tTt H quarter of a pound of butter into a plated 
sauce-pan, with two tea-spoonfuls of cream. 
Shake the pan over a char fire till the butter be 
completely nteh&Jv Take ^are to shake tt ortly 
ose way* ami be oarefiil nfrt to .pat *be sauce-pa* 
upon the fire, 

o£s&RrATiow. 

Some persons put a few spoonfuls of Water with 
a little flour, instead of .cream, but then the 
utmost care must be taken that the flour be uni* 
formly mixed with the butter, as nothing is sq 
unsightly las the appearance of the flaur in lumps. 
The .first method is by far the best. The mix* 
ture of water takes firoaa the balsamic sweetness 
^f the batter, 

B 



( 14 ) 

Beef Stock for Soups. 
CUT lean beef into pieces. Put it into a stew- 
pan with a sufficient quantity of water to cover it. 
Set it on the fire, and when it boils skim the sur- 
face clean ; then add a bunch of parsley, and 
thyme, some scraped carrots, leeks, onions, tur- 
nips, celery, and a little salt. Let the meat boil 
till it become tender. Then strain the stock 
through a fine hair sieve, and when cold ,tak* 
off the fat. Preserve for use. 

OBS. 

The gravies here mentioned need no cemmen* 
tary, as they are only given to point out to 
medical men the basis of the soups, and high- 
seasoned dishes, with which they ought to be 
acquainted. 



Veal Stock for Soups. 

TAKE a knuckle of veal and some lean ham. 
Cut the meat into pieces, and put it into a 
stew-pan, with two quarts . of water, . some 
scraped carrots, turnips, onions, ^ieeksfc and 



A strong Gravy, by some called Cullis. 

TAKE slices of veal and ham; add celery, 
carrots, turnips, onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, 
some all-spice, mace, and a little lemon-peel. 
Put all those into a stew-pan, 'with some water, 
and draw them down to a light brown colour, but 
be careful not to let them burn; then add beef 

B2 



1 

i 



( 15 ) 

celery. Stew the meat down till nearly tender, 
but do not permit it to be of colour. Add a 
sufficient quantity of beef stock, and boil all to- 
gether one hour. Skim the soup free from fat, 
then strain, and preserve for use. Some game j! 

drawn down with the stock will add considerably 
to its goodness. 

OBS. 

This stock is directed not to be drawn down 
to a colour, as in its uncoloured state it will an- 
swer two purposes: first, for white soups; and 
secondly, it' may be heightened to any colour 
by the addition of the liquid contrived for colour- 
ing sauces. 



•tock ; boil again, bat gently, for a, fall balf hour j 
skim clear from fat, and thicken with butttr and 
floor. Boil some time longer, and seasoo to the 
palate, with Cayenne pepper, lemon juice, and 
salt. Strain the whole through a proper cloth, 
*r sieve, and add a little of the colouring liquid 
used for sauces. 



A CoLoumwo rou Sa vest, 

PUT a quarter of a pound of lump sugar into 
A pan, and add to it half a gifr of water, with half 
an ounce of butter. Set it over a gentle fire, 
stirring it with a wooden spoon till it appear 
burnt to a bright brown colour j then add some 
more water ; when it boils, skim, and afterwards 
strain. Retain for use in a vessel closely covered* 



A clear Brown Stock for Gravy Soups. 

TAKE three quarts of veaj stoek, perfectly clew 
and free from fat. ' Add a small quantity of bro wo- 
ing, so as to make the stock of a good brown ftp* 
lour* Season to 'the palate with Cayenne pepper 



i 



( n ) 

and salt. • Beat up the yolks of two eggs, and 
whisk them with some of the stock; then let 
it gently boil a few minutes, and strain through, 
a proper cloth or sieve. 

OBS. 

This stock is intended for all kinds of 
brown soups* 



A Giblet Soup. 

SCALD a sufficient quantity of giblets, and cut 
them to pieces ; then put them into a stew-pan • 
with veal stock, and let then* stew till suf- 
ficiently tender ; then season as for real turtle. 
Strain off, and add* egg yolks, and forced meat - 
balls, with Madeira wine to the taste* , 

OBS* 

This dish resembles turtle soup, and contains * 
a considerable quantity of gout and scurvy ; but 
it may be eat with safety if a meagre soup be 
now and then interposed* 1 was once so pre- 
sumptive as to suppose that the seasoning might 
be weighed out after the manner directed by 
t B3 



I 
t 



( W ) 

physicians in their prescriptions, but I *oon 
found that my plan was too mechanical. I have, 
therefore, abandoned it, and now freely give to 
the cooks the exercise of their right in all matters 
that regard the kitchen. 

- An ingenious progenitor of mine, J)r. King, 
has well observed that 

The fundamental principle of all. 
Is what ingenious Cooks the relish call : 
For when the markets send in. loads of food, 
4Pbey all are tasteless till thai makes them good. 

ArtjofCoofcCfft 



Marrow Bowes. 

CHOP, «* rathe? ,£jkw, the bones at each end, 
Mo as to make them stand quite steady. Saw 
them -in halves, and put a piece df paste) into 
each ; set them upright in water, and let them 
boil a sufficient time. 4Serve up the Wes on 
toasted i>re<uL 



CBtV 



'this is an ingenious method of preserving the 
toarrow, which is often losfcwhea the bones are 



■u.i ■ -^"p«v' »r. - - e **mc??^mmw*F^^^^ m ~*^^**mBamm 



( W ) 
boiled in a horizontal position. This dish is not 
recommended for its elegance, and can only ap- 
pear when things ane served up in a family way. 
Do not permit the boiling water to come' up 
higher than the paste) 



I Macaroni. 

BOIL a quarter of a pound of macaroni |o 
water and some beef stock, till it is made suinci- 
| ently tender. When drained, add a gill of $ ream, 
an ounce of butter, a few spoonfuls df jgravy, a 
i table spoonful of the essence ofc bam, three ounces 
| of grated Parmesan cheese, and a little Cayenne 
; pepper, and^saTt ; mix over a £re for a few mi- 
nutes ; and when put into thg dish, strew over it 
! some grated Parmesan. Smooth with a Iwfe, 
\ and brown with a salaqwmder. 

i 

■ 

i 

j Macaroni is certainly more Wholesome in its 

simple state, than when much compounded. The 

i 

cheese of this country, known by the name of 
* Trent Bank*" is a good substitute for Parmesap* 



( 20 ) b 

A Meagre Soup. 

TAKE a pound of butter, and put it into a 
stew-pan, with two coss lettuces, a large handful 
of the leaves of white beet, three stalks of celery, 
a little chervill and pot marjoram. To thes© 
add six anchovies boned and chopped; stew 
the whole gently about half an hour; add two 
quarts of boiling water, with two spoonfuls of 
flour ; Cayenne pepper and salt to the taste* 
Boil a few minutes longer, then serve up hot. 

OBS. . 

This dish is a good preservative against .gout 
and scurvy, and is held in great estimation by 
those physicians who. have a greater regard for 
the health of their* patients, than they have for 
their fees. 



Gravy for White Dished 

TAKE a* pound and a- half of veal cut into 
thick slices; this will make a pint of gravy. 
Put the nu:at into a sance-pan with a close 
cover; add a. reasonable quantity of soft water > 



( « ) 

two onions, a head of celery, a few pepper 
corns, three blades of oaace, three cloves, and 
a little lemon peel. Stew till all the goodness 
be got from the meat) thpa i train, and when 
cold, take off the fat. 



A Brown Gravy. 
TAKE beef free from fat, and cut it into 
slices about an inch in thickness ; lay them in ft 
dripping pan, with small pieces of butter, and 
season with a little ground pepper and salt. 
Place the pan in a brisk oven, that will broil 
and not burn the meat When half broiled, 
score the beef, and put it into a stew-pan, with 
two or three onions, some thyme, pot marjoram, 
a small bunch of chervtll, a few pepper-corns, 
and two or three cloves j to these put boiling 
water according to the quantity of gravy 
wanted. A pound of beef will mike a pint of 
gravy. Stew till all the goodness is drawn from 
the meat j then strain, and wheu cold, take 
off the fat, having added to it the clean gravy 
that was left in the dripping pan. Preserve for 
use. 






j 



1 



< 22 ) 



A Green Pzase Soup. 

TAKE six or eight cucumbers pared and 
sliced ; the blanched part of the same number 
of coss lettuce* a sprig or two of mint, two or 
three onions, a little parsley, some pepper and 
salt, a full pint of young pease, and half a. 
pound of butter* Put these ingredients into a 
stew-pan,, and let them stew gently in their own 
liquor for an hour. Then have in readiness a 
quart of old pease, boiled tender. Pulp then* 
through a cullender, and put to them two* 
quarts of strong beef gravy, or more, as is 
liked for thickness. When the herbs and cu- 
cumbers are sufficiently stewed, mix, and after 
giving a boil, serve up the soup very hot.. 

OBS. 

This soup may be compared to the Lotus 
mentioned by Homer, and applied to the Loto- 
phagi, 

■ i .... w hich whoso tastes; 

Iasatiate riots in the sweet repasts. . 

Pope. 



/ 



] 



( 23 ) 

Hare Souf. 
CUT a large hare into pieces, and put it into 

a stew-pan, with five quarts of water, one 
onion, a few corns of white pepper, a little 
jalt, and some mace. Stew over a slow fire 
for two hours, or till it become a good gravy* 
Then cut the meat from the back and legs, 
and keep it to pat into the soup when nearly 
ready. Put the bones into the gravy, and stew 
till the remainder of the meat is nearly dissolved* 
Then strain off the gravy, and put to it two 
ipoonfuls of soy, or three of mushroom or 
walnut catchup. Cayenne pepper to the taste. 
To two quarts of gravy put half a pint of Ma- 
deira, or red wine. Then put in the meat that 
was cut off from the back and legs, and let the 
whole stew about a quarter of a hour. Send up 
hot to table. Part of a knuckle of veal would 
improve this soup, in which case some more 
water will be required. 

OBS. 

To speak in praise of this soup, would be an 
■eulogium on the gout. 



t 



( » ) 

Dutch Sour Sauce for Fish* 
TAKE the yolks of two eggs, a lump of 
butter sufficiently large for the quantity of 
sauce wanted, and a small bit of mace* A 
-table spoonful of good white wine vinegar. Put 
all together into a sauce- pan, and melt over a 
gentle fire, taking care to stir, or shake, only one 
way. The sauce will be sufficiently thick with- 
out any flour. 

OBS. 

This is a most excellent sauce for all kinds 
of fish, as it does not, like most other sauces, 
destroy the flavour of the fish. 

A Gaanada. 
TAKE the caul laid over a leg of veal, and put 
it into a long or rouud pot, leaving a considerable 
portion of it to hang over ; put upon it a layer 
of the flitch part of bacon; then a layer of 
high-seasoned forqe-meat ; then a layer of veal, 
cut as for collops ; and in this manner proceed 
till the pot be filled. Then take that part of the 
caul that hangs over the edge of the pot, and 
close it up, laying a piece of paper over it, 

2 



( 25 ) 

Send it to the oven, and when sufficiently 
baked, tarn it into a dish, and serve it up. 
For sauce, a good brown gravy, as for Scotch 
collops. Add a few pickled mushrooms, mo- 
rels, and truffles, when served up. 

OBS. 

This is a good looking savoury dish for a first 
course, and eats very well cold. 



To boil a Ham. 

IF the ham belarge, boil it in water with two 
pounds of veal. After boiling a quarter of art 
hour, add the folio wiog vegetables ; celery, 
three heads ; young onions, one handful ; thyme, 
a small quantity : sweet marjoram, a small 
quantity ; two turnips ; winter savory, one 
handful ; one or two shalots. Boil .gently till / 
, the ham become sufficiently tender. 

OBS, 

In this manner of boiling a ham, the juices of 
the veal and vegetables insinuate themselves 
between the fibres of the ham, after having dis- 

C 



( 26 y 

lodged the salt, by which means t!he meat 
is enriched and tendered. The suit being ex* 
traded, a considerable degree of flavour is givetf 
4 to the ham. At first sight, this will appear an 

* extravagant way of boiling a bam ; bat let it bfe 

» considered, that the broth will serve the cha- 

[ . ritable purposes of the family, and cannot be 

? considered as lost. 



:t 



To dress a Beef Steak. 

TAKE rump steaks about half an inch in thick- 
ness ; put them on a gridiron, and keep con- ' 
tinually turning them ; whilst dressing, lay upon 
them a piece of fat; and when taken firom the 
fire, put upon them a little grated horse-radish^ 
together ttith a small portion of butter, mixed 
with pepper and salt. Put into the dish a little 
hot gravy, in which let ihtete be shred some 
shalot or young onions. 

OBS. 

This is a good method of dressing a beef 

"V. 

steak. It should on no account be permitted to 
remain long upon the table, but be sent in hot 
and hot. Some persons are of opinion that it is 

2 



-( 2T ) 
.better to dress the steaks without either butter 
or pepper ; a mode that preserves t^e natural 
taste and flavour of the meat. 



Macaroni. 

TAKE a quarter of a pound of Macaroni. Boil 
it till it become tender, but not dissolved ; then 
put it upon a sieve to drain. Take a gill of 
cream, a piece of butter, with some Parmesan 
cheese nicely grated. Set all the ingredients on 
the fire to simmer till perfectly incorporated. 
Strew a little grated Parmesan on the surface ; 
then brown with a salamander aud serve up. 

OBS. 

This may be considered as the simplest method 
of dressing Macaroni. The best kind of cheese is 
Parmesan, but this disb will dress very well with 
the cheese of our own country. Some persons 
add £ small portion of good gravy. Carolus 
,$tephanus in his book De Nutrimentis, printed in 
15J0, speaks very unfavourably of Macaroni, 
considering it as a disji of hard digestion, and 
only fit for the stomachs of rustics and artisans. But 

C2 



( 28 J 

the frequent use of it at genteel tables does not 

T 

seem to confirm bis opinion. 



A Gravy Soup. 

TAKE four pounds of lean beef, a knuckle 
of veal, half a pound of lean ham, a bundle of 
*weet herbs, two whole carrots, two whole 
turnips, an onion stuck with cloves, and four 
heads of celery. Put these into a stew-pan, and 
keep it at a considerable distance from the fire, 
in order that the gravy may be drawn from 
the meat before putting in any water, and without 
running the hazard of burning. Then put in as 
much water as may be Vequired, and boil gently 
for the space of five hours. Strain through a 
sieve into an earthen pot, where the soup should 
remain during the night. Next day, take 
off the fat, and when the stock is taken out, 
great care should be used not to raise it from 
the bottom, as that would occasion the soup to 
have a muddy appearance. Put the stock ia 
this clarified state, into the stew-pan, and set it 
over the fire, taking care to remove the scum 



( 29 ) 

as it rises. Season with pepper, salt, and mace. 
Just before sending up, some persons put thin 
slips of carrots to the soup ; but these must be 
separately boiled in a sauce-pan. 

OBS. 

This is a most excellent gravy soup, and if 
tbe process be well attended to, the soup will 
be as transparent as amber. 



A Gravy Soup. 

TAKE ,fouv pounds and a half of lean beefj 

, a quarter of a pound of lean ham, and the scrag 

epd of a neck of mutton. Boil together in 

« * 

a. sufficient quantity of lY&ter, till the virtue of 
the meat is extracted. Ta]ke celery, thyme, 
omoi>s or leeks, carrots and turnips: boil these 
. in a separate vessel' till sufficiently soft for 
squeezing, and add the juice to the above broth. 
After straining, put the whole into an earthen 
# vessel during the night. Take off the fat, ajid 
when ,put into the stew-pan, add such spices 
as may be most agreeable, together with some 

C3 



•tut 



( 30 ) 
salt, and a pounded anchovy or two. ' Serve up 
with a small loaf of bread. When carrots, boiled 
and pulped, are added, a carrot soup is prepared. 

OBS. 

It will be unnecessary to remark on these soups, 
that their clearness, and uniform taste, constitute 
the difference between a good and a bad cook. 



A Savoury Omelette. 

TAKE six or seven eggs, and beat them up 
with a little salt and pepper. Then having the 
frying-pan moderately hot, and containing a lump 
of butter, put in the eggs, after being mixed with 
a tea-cupful of gravy, a little essence of anchovy, 
a few chives, and a little parsley cut small. When 

» 4 

it has come to nearly the consistence of a pafi- 
cake, add a little lemon juice. To take off, the 
raw appearance of the eggs, a salamander may 
be held over the surface ; but when a long dish 

is used, folding over will make that operation 
unnecessary* 



( SI J 

Mock Cavier*. 

TAKE anchovies, parsley, and chives, or 
sbalots ; pound them in a marble mortar, with 
some oil, salt> and lemon juice; then make a 
toast of white bread, arid spread the composition 
upon it ; cut it into neat slices, and serve it up. 

OBS. 

This is a very good substitute for cavier. The 
ingredients are here left to the discretion of the 
cook. The aqcbovy must predominate. 



A White Soup. 

TO six quarts of water, put a large knuckle of 
veal, and a pound of ham, or shoulder of bacon, 
but only the leaa part, two anchovies, a few 
pepper-corns, two or three onions, a bundle of 
sweet herbs, and a few heads of celery cut in 
slices. Stew these all together till the soup has 
obtained a sufficient strength j then strain through 
a hair seive into an earthen pot, into which let the 
soup stand all night. Next day, skim and pour 
it off into a stew-pan ; put to it a quarter of a 



( 32 ) 

pound of almonds blanched and pounded ; give a 
gentle boil, and run it through a lawn sieve, hav- 
ing just before added a pint of cream and the yolk 
of one egg. 

OBS. 

This is a very wholesome white soup. Like 
alL soups it must be sent up hot. The addition 
of some vermicelli wx>uld be an improvement. , 
And if not sufficiently strong, some veal gravy , 
piay be added. 



A Pickle for the preservation of Pork, 

Tongues, &g. 

TO four gallons of water put a pop nd of Mus- 
-cavedo sugar, four ounces of salt petre, six pounds 
of bay or common salt. Put the whole into a 
pot, or kettle, and let it boil, taking care to re- 
move the scum as it rises. Take the vessel from 
the fire when no more scum rises, and let the 
liquor stand till it become cold : then put the 
meat, intended to be preserved, into the vessel ap- 
propriated for keeping it, and pour upon it the 
preserving liquor, covering the meat, in which 



Y\ 



( *3 ) 

condition it must be kept. Meat preserved in 
this manner has been taken out of the pickle after 
tying in it f° r the space of ten weeks, and been 
found as good as if it had not been salted 
• above three days, and at the skme time as tender 
as could be desired. When it is intended to pre- 
serve the meat for a very long time, it will be ne- 
cessary once in two months to boil the pickle over 
again, skimming off all that rises as before, and 
throwing in, during the boiling, two ounces of 
sugar, and half a pound of bay or common salt. 
The pickle after this second boiling will keep 
good for twelve months. 



obs. 



This is an excellent pickle for curing hams, 
tongues, and, beef intended for drying. Observe, 
when the rpeat is taken out of the pickle for dry- 
, ing, to wipe it clean and dry, and then to put it 
into paper bags, to be hung up in a dry place. 
This pickle is found to be well calculated for thos* 
who reside in hot climates. 



( 34 ) 

* A Vegetable Soop, with Meat. 
MAKE a good stock of beef and veal ; then 
take one onion, two carrots, and two turnips. 
Cut these into pellets. Put them and the stock 
into the soup pot, with a small piece of ham 
and a little butter. That done, add a hand- 
ful of sorrel, chopped small, and six lettuces 
well blanched. Boil about an hour. Before its 
being served up, put in a handful of chervill, 
chopped small, and let it boil a few minutes* 
Salt, if required, to the taste. 

This is an excellent soup, and perfectly 
wholesome. The stock which constitutes its 
basis, must be good, and clear. 



To Ragou a Calf's Head. 

TAKE half of a calf's head. Bope it. Cut 
some rashers of ham, and lay them at the bottom 
of a stew-pan, with two thin slices of veal, 
three shalots, a clove of garlic, a little spice* 
and a bundle of sweet herbs. Put in the head 



( 35 ) 

tfith a tea-capful of gt&vy. Stiew it down for it- 
quarter of an hour, then add to k a quart of 
gravy. Stew it till tender, then' strain the gravy 
from it. Take' off the fat, and put a piecfe of 
butter in a stew-pan. Melt it, and put to it a 
spoonful of flour. Mix your gravy with it by 
degrees, and throw in a glass of white wine, and 
A fev^ mushrooms, or artichoke bottoms cut in 
jtiefces. The sauce mudt be thick. Put the head 
in and give it a boil. Season to the t&stty , and 
servfe it up with the sauce over it. 

OBS. 

This is a very inviting dish for those who are. 
fdttd of good eating, and who do not live in fear 
of the gout or scurvy. 



A Vegetable Soup, with Meat. 

HAVE ready the stock for gravy soup. Put 

six ounces of butteb into a stew-pan, add melt it 

till it has done hissing. Have ready six oniond r 

cut : throw them in and shake them well. Boil I 

for five or six minutes, then put in six heads of 

i 
cetery cut small, two handfuls of spiuage, two 



If... _^ 



( 3« ) 
bilge lettuces cut, a handful of sorrel, four 
rots, and four turnips. Fry them all together, 
ing care not to burn them. Take a piece of 
ter and put it into a stew-pan. Melt it, and 
;d it is turned brown, put in by degrees at 
:h Sour as will thicken the soup. Stir it well, 
add to it the first mentioned gravy stock. 
ore it boils, put in the fried vegetables, and 
I them very gently. If in season, throw in a 
: of green pease, and stew altogether until 
ler. Season well. The soup should be as 
kas good cream. 

OJJS. 
hii dish is only proper for those who do not 
d in fear of gouty shoes anda'pair of crutches. 



Malt Wine. 
ake of strong sweet wort sixteen gallons. To 
y gallon put one pound of lump sugar. Boil 
alf an hour, and when lukewarm (as when 
is set on) tun it into a barrel, putting to 
gallon two pounds of whole raisins, picked 
the stalks, four ounces of isinglass, and on* 



( 37 ) . 

spoonful of yest. Let it work out of the barrel, 
stirring it every day with a stick for a fortnight 
or a month. When the fermentation is com- 
pleted, put to every sixteen gallons of wine one 
gallon of French brandy. Let the cask remain 
with the bung open till the fermentation ceases. 
Then bung it up, and let it stand twelve months ; 
after which time it may be racked off, or bottled, 
and in six months it will be fit for use. 

OBS. 

This kind of wine comes cheap, and is equally 
good with the best raisin wine. It improves by 
age, and answers all the purposes of a sweet wine. 
The present high price of wine makes such a 
substitute very desirable. Of this kind of wine, 
a medical man will form his opinion, when called 
in to patients who have 'constantly used it. 



To Stew Cot>. 

CUT cod in slices, and put it into a stew-pan / 

with as much water as may suffer it to be stewed i 

about fifteen minutes. Then put in two or three 

pounded anchovies* a little butter, some bread 

D 



( 38 ) 

crumbs made very fine, and a little juice of 
lemon. Season with salt, nutmeg, and a small 
portion of white pepper ; then add Cayenne pep- 

per, and as much good gravy as will allow the 

« 

whole to boil. about five minutes* A table spoon- 
ful of crab, or lobster sauce, will much improve this 
dish. The fish must not be turned in the pan, 

OBS. 

A physician who has a greater regard for his 
patient's health than he has for his guinea, will not 
recommend the too frequent use of this dish. 



a * 

A Good Fish Sauce. 

TAKE two gills of mushroom catchup, two gills 
of walnut catchup, twelve anchovies pounded, 
two cloves of garlic, and a tea spoonful of Cay- 
enne pepper. Boil all together, and, when cold, 
bottle it. When used, shake th* bottle. 

OBS. 

No housekeeper should be without this com- 
position, as it will prevent her from GOirtkui&Hy 
sending to the oil-shop. 






■< 30 ) 

' A Cheap Soup. 

TAKE one pound of lean beef cut into small 
pieces, seven pints of water, t>ne pint of split 
pease, one pound of potatoes, three ounces of 

rice, two heads of celery, aud three leeks. 
Season to the taste with salt, pepper, and dried 
mint. Boil gently till reduced to five pints, then 
strain through a cullender, or, which is better, it 
may remain unstrained. Fried cabbage and 
onion will give strength to the soup at a small ex- 
pense. 

I 

> OBSV 

A soup of this kind taken every fourth day,, will 
act as ah antidote to strong gravy soups, and 
prove a preservative against gout and scurvy. 
jKxptvto crede Roberto* 



A Sauce to* boiled Carp, Tench, ok 

Turkey. 

TO a quarter of a pound of butter, put a pint 
of cream, and one anchovy pounded. Heat to- 

4 D2 



> 



( 40 ) 

gether gently, and put in half a spoonful of India 
soy, with lemon juice to the taste. When suffi- 
ciently heated, take half an ounce of butter, and 
some flour, which stir into the sauce to make it 
thicker. Walnut, or mushroom catchup, wilr, 
when soy is not to be had, supply its place, 

OBS. 

This is a good sauce for those who prefer good 
eatii^ to health. "Carp and tench are most 
wholesome when simply boiled, and eaten with 
plain melted butter made mild with cream, and 
acidulated gently with, good vinegar. 



To broil a Beef Steak, 

CUT steaks from a rump of beef about half an 
inch in thickness. The fire being clear, rub the 
gridiron with beef suet, and lay on the steaks ; 
let them broil till they begin to brown, then 
turn them, and when gently browned lay them 
on a hot dish with a bit of butter, and some 



i w JUj p ii ww m j - •«r*iy^rp^« V ipn 



( 41 ) 

pepper and salt upon each. Lay on the steaks 
again, and finish the broiling, by frequently 
turning them till they are enough. Take a 
shallot, chopped as small as possible, and putting 
it to some gravy or hot water, pour it among the 
steaks, and serve them up as hot as possible. 

. OB8. 

Beef steaks, dressed in this simple manner, 
were the established breakfast of the Maids of 
Honour,- in the days of Queen Elizabeth. At an 
earlier period, they gave strength and vigour to 
those men who 

v r. ," drew? 

And almost joined the horns of the tough yew." 



» 



V 



1 

To fry a Beep Steak. 

CUT the steaks as for broiling, and put them n 

into a stew-pan with a lump of butter. Set them 
over a slow fire, and keep turning them till the ' 
butter has become a thick white gravy, which 
pour into a basin, and put more butter to the 

D * 



9, 



( 42 ) 

steaks. When almost enough, pour, all the 
gravy into the basin, and put more butter into 
the pan ; then fry the steaks over a quick fire till 
they become of a light brown, when they will be 
sufficiently done. Remove from the fire, and put 
them into a hot pewter dish, pouring upon them 
the gravy that had been drawn from them, and inta 
which some chopped shalot had been previously 
put. Serve up very hot. 

CXBS. 

Steaks dressed in this manner are very tender,. 
J?" and cannot be considered otherwise than as a 

1 dish prepared to satisfy the appetite, and not to 
pamper it. 



Y 



A Beef Steak Pressed hastily in a Sqdbw- 

PAN. 

FRY the steaks in butter a good brown, then 
put in half a pint of water, one onion, sliced, a 
spoonful of walnut catchup, a little chopped shalot, 
and some pepper and salt. Cover up close>aud 



itfWl w 



stew gently.; When enough, thicken the gravy, 
with flour and butter. Garnish with scrapeu, 
horse radish x and serve up hot. 



OBS* 



Cabeached Cod.. 

CUT the tail part of the fish into slices, and 1 

upon them put some white pepper and salt. 

Then fry in sweet oil. Take tha slices from the 

.pan, and- lay them on a plate to cool. When 

cold, put them into a pickle made of good vinegar, 

in which some white pepper corns,, a few cloves, 

a little mace, and some salt had been boiled. 

When cold, mix. with the pickle a tea-cupful of 

oil. Put the fish into a pot, and; between every 

• piece, put a few slices of onion, and keep the 

. whole well covered with the pickle. In the same 






• This, like the former,, may. be considered as a* ' 

meal prepared at a small expense, and. capable of * 

giving lasting stamina when .aided by a. draught 
of good porter or table beer- 



< « ) 

manner salmon may be cabeached ; but if taken 
fresh out of the water, it is liable to break, which 
it will not do after being kept a few days, 

OSS. 

Escabeche, in Spanish, signifies " Fish 
Pickle." In the sea-ports of Spain, they escabeche 
their fish, which they send inland as present* 
to their friends. The preparation is similar to 
the dish here mentioned, with the addition of a 
large portion of garlic and bay leaves. The 
Spaniards eat it with vinegar and salad, and 
sometimes stew it lightly. 



. Mutton Venison. 

SKIN and bone a loin of mutton, after remov- 
ing the suet. Put it into a cold stew-pan for 
one night with the bones around it, and pour 
over it a pint of red port wine and a quart of 
water. The next day put it over the fire, toge^ 
ther with the bones, the inside next the pan, wit] 
one shalot, a little parsley, marjoram, six pepperJ 
corns, one blade of mace, and a little lemon peel cut 



( 45 ) 

thin. After stewhig two hours,, strain the gravy*. 
Return it again, and turn the meat with the fat 
side downwards in order to brown > which if not 
sufficiently so, a salamander may be held over it. 
Serve up with (he gravy in the dish. 

OBS. 

Thjs dish is a good iinitafion of venison, when 
used with wine and bread sauce, or currant jelly. 
Young mutton will not answer for this purpose ; 
and indeed, unfess it be five or six years old, the 
colour of the flesh will discover the deception. 



Malt Wine. 

TAKE of sweet wort, about the strength of 
table beer, any quantity. To every gallon of 
wort, put a pound and a half of lump -sugar. Boil 
the liquor for the space of half an hour, and when 
about the warmth when yest is set on, tun it into 
a barrel, and to each gallon put two pounds of 
Malaga raisins a little chopped, two ounces of dis- 
solved isinglass, and one spoonful of yest. Stir 
the liquor eyery day with, a stick during a forU 



/; 






T 
\ 



! 






t 



h 



1 



(40) 

night or a month. Keep the bong lightly in till 
the fermentation ceases, when a gallon of brandy 
should be put to every sixteen gallons of liqaor. 
Then bung up the cask, and let the Wine stand 
for the space of twelve months, when it may be 
racked off, or bottled. Some persons put three 
ounces of hops to every thirty gallons of wort* 
This wine improves greatly by age* 



©Bs. 



The wine of Portugal, so congenial to the 
British constitution, is now so heavily taxed, that 
the middling classes of people n^y be fairly consi- 
dered as deprived of its enjoyment. And as every 
^r~ man is desirous of rendering the burdens laid upon 

I him as light as possible, an ingenious gentleman 

contrived the above wine, of which the basis is 
malt. For some years, the gentleman enjoyed 
exclusively to himself this cheap domestic com- 
fort ; but now, by the severestlaw, he is deprived 
of that enjoyment, by a late additional tax upon, 
malt and raisins. I conceive that the minister learnt 
this piece of torturing ingenuity, from the sports- 
man, who, when he means to uokennei a foe, 



-9 



( « ) 

orders all Reynard's retreats to be stopped up early 
in the morning ; so thai when the poor animal 
expects to be safely lodged against his pursuers, he 
finds his own doors shut against him. Distressed 
aud fatigued, Reynard is now forced to depend 
upon his own strength, which generally fails him; 
and in the end he falls a victim to the speed of 
the bounds, and the ingenuity of the huntsman, 
De tefabula narrator. 



, A Russian Sauce. 
TAKE gratedgjiorse-radish four spoonfuls; 
made- mustard two tea-spoonfuls; salt, a salt- 
spoonful : sugar, a tea-spoonful ; vinegar as much 
as will just cover the ingredients. 

OBS. 

This is a most excellent sauce for all kinds of 
cold meat, and when added to some melted but- 
ter, makes a very good fish-sauce. Ignotus once 
saw this sauce condescendingly prepared by the 
hands of a Russian Princess,, on which account it 
is received ino this collection. 



J 



s 






( 48 ) 

Mutton Stewed. 

CUT slices out of the middle part of a leg of 
^ . mutton ; season them with pepper and salt, and 

put them into a stew-pan ; cover the steaks with 
water, and a little gravy, and add some onions 

sliced. Let the stew-pan be covered close, and 
when one side of the steaks is done enough, let 
them be turned ; when a little butter, rolled in 
flour, should be added. 



t 



V 



OBS. 

If stewed beyond twenty minutes, the meat 
will become hard. This is a very good dish for 
a private family where a little economy is ne- 
cessary. Beef may be dressedJn the same simple 
way. Shalot, garlic, or catchup, may be added, 
as the family may think proper. 



Oyster Sausages. 

TAKE half a "pound. of lean mutton ; three 
quarters of a pound of beef suet ; half a pint of 
oysters scalded, and the beauds taken off, Chop 



6 -^*« __. «4 



( 49 r 

all together, and add the yolks of two eggs. Sea- 
son with salt and pepper. Make this composition 
into the form of sausages, or oblong cakes, and 
fry themjightly in the usual way. 

OBS, 

This is a' very neat supper dish, and will in N 
general be liked by those who are fond of saroury 

m 

things. If required, the sausage meat may be 
put into skins. 



To stew a Duck with Cabbage. 
BOIL a cabbage over night, and set it to draui* 
Half roast a. duck, and have ready some gravy 
seasoned with sweet marjoram, thyme, onions, 
pepper, and salt, and thickened with butter ^ind 
flour. Put the duck into a stew-pan, with the 
gravy, and stew it till enough ; then have in rea*- 
diness the cabbage, fried m butter, and put it into 
the pan. When sufficiently heated, serve up, 
with the duck in the middle. 

** OBS. - 

Notwithstanding this is a good savoury dish, 

it contains only a small portion of gout. 

E 



•1 



< so ) 

Fish Sauce. 

TAKE twenty-four anchovies, ten shalots, three 
heaped spoonfuls of scraped horse-radish, tea 
blades of mace, a quart of Rhenish wine, or old 
hock, twelve cloves, half a pint of anchovy liquor, 

a pint of water, and one lemon sliced. Boil alto- 
gether till reduced to a quart, then strain, and 
add three spoonfuls of walnut catchup, 

OBS. 

A spoonful of this composition put to a quarter 
of a pound of melted butter, makes a good and 
expeditious sauce for any kind of fish. When 
kept from the air, it will retain its goodness for 
a considerable time. No' housekeeper, who lives 
in the country, ought to be without it, unless she 
prefers the essence of anchovy, which may be purv 
chased at the oil shop?. 



A Partridge Soup. 

STEW down a knuckle of veal till >it become a 

strong soup. Stuff as many partridges as you 

think proper with forcemeat, and stew them in 

the soup till they are perfectly tender ; but not sra 

4 



^■" 



wr~f 



( M ) . 
much as to fall ia pieces. The flavour and taste 
of the soup will be much increased by the addition 
of all sorts of vegetables, especially celery. Sea- 
son to the taste. To make the soup very strong > 
some lean beef may be added to the veal ; but 
before the dish ia sent up tq the table, the meat 
must be strained off, and only the partridges suf- 
fered to remain in the soup. 

OBS- 

This is ope of the dishes tliat escaped from 
Pandora's box* 



, . A Macaroni Soup. 

CUT three onions into slices, and put them 
into a sauce-pan with a piece of butter and a little 
w^ter ; but take care that the onions be not burnt. 
Keep the onions and butter upon the fire, till they 
becopie a little discoloured ; then take four an- 
chovies, with two or three fresh- water fish, and a 
little thyme. Simmer these together a proper 
time, then add water and Parmesan cheese. Boil 
up all together^ and strain through a sieve ; after 



( 52 ) • 

which return the soup into the pan, and add to it 
a sufficient quantity of prepared macaroni, and 
give it a boil. 

OBS. 

This is an Italian dish of reputation* 



To stew a Loin of Mutton, 

BONE a loin of aged mutton, taking off the 
skin and the fat. Then stew it in gravy till 
it become a good brown, Put into the stew-pan, 
with the mutton, two anchovies, and half a. clove 
of garlic, Stew moderately till the meat is ten- 
der. Half an hour before taking up, add a few 
spoonfuls of port wine, and some catchup. 
Thicken the sauce with butter and flour, 

OBS. 

If well dressed, this is a good looking dish, and 
in general is approved of. It eats very well with 

venison &uuce. 



~^__ ^ 



W ^i^r-" 



T* 



•SfTTS 



j»- *.-st ^ 



(.53 ) 

To stew a Fowl in Rice. 

TAKE a fowl, and half boil it in a moderate- 
quantity of water ; then put to it a quarter of a 
pound of rice, with some mace. Stew the foul 
till it become very tender. A basin of Well sea- 
soned veal broth added during the stewing, will 
make the dish more savoury, . 

obs.. 

Take care to stew the fowl till it become ten- 
der j but be careful that it be not so much stewed 
as to fall in pieces,, and lose its form.. Perhaps it 
would be better to boil the rice separately, and 
pour it upon the fowl when sent up. This is a^ 
good Semel-iiirSeptimana dish, for free-livers.. 



A Macaroni Pie.. 

MAKE the paste as for any other pie, and 
with it line the sides and bottom of a neat earthen 
©r china dish that will hear thfr tire. Then having 
some macaconi that has been boiled in salt and 
water, v . (the water well drained from it,) stew it. 



*1 



( 54 .) 

in a strong meat gravy, and put it at the bottom 
of the dish, together with some slices of ham ; 
over this put strata of pigeons, partridges, wood- 
cocks, or moorgame, all cut in pieces, together 
with cocks* combs, and sweetbreads* AH these 
should be parboiled with some slices of ham. 
Upon them, put truffles, morels, and mushrooms ; 
then another stratum of macaroni with a little 
butter and grated Parmesan cheese, with some 
pepper aad salt. Over all, put the remainder of 
the gravy, and about an equal quantity of cream. 
Put on the upper crust with a hole in the middle, 
to be covered with a rose of the same paste. The 
pie being thus completed y bake it in % gentle 
oven. When removed from the oven, raise the 
rose, and pour in some more gravy or cream.. 
Replace the rose, when the dish; will b^ ready 
for the table. 

OBS- 

This dish was sent to Ignotus from the late 
Pope's kitchen* The Italians often put sugdr 
into their paste* 



r ' 

( 55 ) 

i 

L « 

« 

Anchovy Sauce. 

TAKE three anchovies or more ; when boned 
! and skinned, chop them very fine, and put them 

into a pan, with some gravy ; thicken with half 
1 a pound of butler, and a fittle flour, shaking it 

one way over the fire till it become as thick a& 

melted butter should be* 

OB&. 

This sauce is soon prepared,, and is not expert 

sive. But what is sold in the shops, under the 

name of essence of anchovy, when mixed with 

.melted butter-,, constitutes a fish-sauce of equal 

goodness.* 



i <». 



To stew Carp and Tench. 
SCALE the fish ; then dredge them with flour,, 
and fry them in dripping- When fried, put the 
fish into a stew-pan with some good gravy ; a few 
anchovies ; a bunch of thyme ; a little mace ; 
some spoonfuls of mushroom catchup ; and a 
small slice of onion. Add some red wine,, and 
thicken with flour and butter. 



OBS. 

The present taste is, simply to boil' both carp 
and tench, and to serve them up with plain, or 

savoury sauce. The Dutch sour-sauce is, per- 

< ■ 

haps, the best of any* as it does not destroy the 
flavour of the fish; which is not the case when a. 
high-seasoned sauce is usecL 



Macaroni. 

TAKE of the best pipe macaroni any quantity.. 
Boil it in three quarts* of water till it become 
tender ; but not so soft as to lose its shape > then 
lay it on a sieve to dry, and when nearly so, put 
it into a sauce-pan with half a pint of good cream,, 
a bit df butter,, about the size of a walnut, a little 
salt, and some spoonfuls pf grated Parmesan: 
cheese. Stew all together, aitd keep stirring 
during the whole time,, in order that the mixture 
may have a uniform appearance.. As the Par- 
mesan cheese is of a very dry nature, the maca- 
roni will be much improved by a mixture of mild,, 
but fat, Cheshire cheese. When dished up, soui& 



1 1 



( ST ) 
grated cheese, mixed with crumbs of bread, should 
be shaken over it, and the surface bro.vned with 
a salamander. 

OBS. 

The addition of some mild, but fat, Cheshire 
cheese, is a great improvement. The cheese 
named " Trent Bank/' when grated, makes a 
good substitute for Parmesan. 



' Burnt Butter. 
PUT half a pound of butter into a stew-pan 
with six anchovies, four shalots, two blades of 
mace, and four tea-spoonfuls of white pepper. 
Add flour, and keep stirring till, the mixture be- 
come as thick as paste. When cold, put the 
mixture into a pot, for the purpose of thickening 
all brown sauces. When used, dissolve as much 
as may.be wanted in boiling water, and strain. 



A Carrot Soup. 
TAKE carrots well scraped, and boil them in 
water, till quite tender ; then pulp them through 

a sieve. Have ready some good beef gravy, to 

< 

which put the carrots ; and after stewing a short 



L 



( n ) 

. time, pal itk soma hatter wbh. flour, to thicker* 
the soup. 

OBS. 

■ 

This is a very wholesome soup; and on the 
consideration of its making a part of our diet, I 
shall medically consider it as an antiscorbutic. 



Water Souchy. 

TAKE a quart of water, a few perch or 
flounders, some parsley, and parsley roots. Stew 
these in a proper pan, and, when soft, pulp then* 
through a sieve. Into the liquor put the re- 
mainder of the fish, with more parsley and parsley 
roots, and some salt. Boil till the fish is thought 

enough, and then send it up in the surrounding 
water, together with the roots. 

OBS. 

A few of the fish stewed down, strengthens the 
water in which the fish is afterwards sent up* 
For want of this precaution, the soup has a 
maigre taste. Slices of bread and butter are ge- 
nerally sent up to be eaten with the fish. In a 
medical view this is a very wholesome dish„ 



* 



\ - 



i 

I 
I 

1 ( *> ) 

A simple Soup. 

TAKE three quarts of good gravy. Put it into 
! a sauce-pan with two carrots, three or four turnips, 
; three or four potatoes, some celery, lettuce, 
I endive, parsley, and a piece of butter with a little 
flour. Stew till the vegetables become quite ten- 
der, so as to permit them to be rubbed through 
a sieve, after which let them be put to the soup. 
i Stew again for about a quarter of an hour, and 
season to the taste. If too strong, add a little 
water. 

OBS* 

This is a very simple soap, and cannot be 
said to contain either g out or scurvy. Some part 
| -of the vegetables jaaay be left unpulped. 



WMMMW 



Fish Sauce. 



A GILL of mushroom pickle ; a gill of walnut 
pickle; six anchovies pounded; two cloves of 
garlic ; and half a tea-spoonful of Cayenne 
pepper. Boil all together, and bottle when cold. 
When used, shake the bottle, and put the required 
quantity into some melted butter. 



y*n 



( 60 ) 

OBS. 

Such is the variety of fish sauces, that the 
cook can have no difficulty in fixing upon one 
that has the desired properties. This, by some, 
is called Quin's sauce. - In this branch of cookery, 
I believe every cook has his nostrum, of which, 
part may be his own invention, and part may be 
derived from tradition. 



A Carrot Soup. 

TAKE a shin of beef, four quarts of water, 
some onions, celery, parsley, thyme, salt, and 
pepper to the taste. Stew those together for the 
space of five hours, and strain through a hair* j 
sieve. When cold, take off the fat. Then having 
a sufficient number of carrots boiled, and pulped 
through a sieve, put them to the soup, adding 
some rice previously boiled in water. Boil and 
send up hot. 

OBS. 

This soup may be considered as an antiscor- 
butic. 



|VV*iM ^^^^P^«*i^i^^^^^M«F»^I^B"*>"«P 



( 61 ) 

A Maigre Soup.. 

TAKE six ounces of butter. Gut it into 
pieces, and put it into a stew-pan. When a little 
browned, take three or four onions sliced, three 
or four heads of celery, two handfuls of spinage, 
some cabbage, two or three turnips, some parsley > 
two or three cabbage lettuces, and pepper and 
salt to the taste. Stew these gently about half 
an hour, then put to them two quarts of water. 

■ 

Simmer till the roots become quite tender, when 
any part of them may be taken out. Put in the 
crust -of a French roll, and send the dish up tp 
table. 

OBS. 

This is a good antidote against turtle, venison, 
high-seasoned soups, and ragouts. It is the poor 
man's soup, and contains neither gout nor scurvy. 

4t The sleep of a labouring man is sweet, whether 
he eat little or much ; but the abundance of the 
itch will not sufer him to sleep." Eccto* 



L 



h 



I 



[ 62 ) 
A Hare Soup. 

TAKE an old hare, and after washing it well 
from the blood, cut it into pieces, and season with 
Cayenne pepper and salt. Put the meat into a 
stew-pan with a small knuckle of veal cut into 
pieces, half a pound of lean ham, six large onions, 
two heads of celery, a small bunch of pot mar- 
joram, two or three cloves, and four quarts of 
water. Stew gently till all the goodnesss of the 
meat be drawn out, and strain. 

OBS. 

All soups should be made over night, as it will 
give the Cook an opportunity to remove the fat. 
This is the cheapest and simplest hare soup that 
can be made, but if expense be not an object, 
about a pint of red wine may be added a few 
minutes before the stew-pan is removed from 
the fire. 



A Fricandeau. 
TAKE a large cutlet from a fillet of veal; 
and after larding, it neatly with fat bacon, put it 

into a stew-pan with a little water, till it become 



^.WtL _, 



< 63 ) 

brown and tender. Into another stew-pan put 
some carrots, onions, turnips, celery, all-spice, two 
cloves, and a little pepper. Over these, put some 
slices of fat bacon ; then put in the fricandeau, 
with some gravy, and let the whole stew till the 
meat has become quite tender, and imbibed the 

Vegetable juices. To keep up an equal heat, put 
some fire over the cover of the stew-pan. — 
Send the fricandeau to the table upon sorrel, 
stewed in the following manner. Take some 
bandfuls of sorrel, >and after being well washed 
and chopped, put it into a stew-pan with a slice 
of ham. When sufficiently stewed, give it a 
gentle squeeze, and add some gravy, a spoonful 
of mushroom catchup, a tea-spoonful of vinegar, 

* 

two tea-spoonfuls of lemon pickle, a bit of butter, 
and a lump of sugar. Stew gently, and after 
taking out the ham, and chopping the sorrel 
smooth with a wooden spoon, add a little more 
gravy, with pepper and salt to the taste. 

OBS. 

This is a palatable and wholesome dish; and 
as much depends on the sorrel, care must be 

F2 



( 64 ) 

taken not to expose it to too much heat, itJiaving 
a disposition to change colour on the application 
of too much fire. Under the most careful atten- 
tion, it will lose much of its green colour. This 
sour sauce is not confined to the fricandeau, but 
may be dressed for all kinds of roast meat ; in 
which case, the cookery may be conducted in a 
much more simple manner. 



Mxjck Turtle Soup. 
TAKE a calf's head, with the skin on. Scald it 

to take off the hair. Then boil it in a sufficient 
quantity of strong gravy, made of beef and veal. 

When the head is boiled tender, cut it into pieces, 

of about a quarter of an inch square.. Strain, and 

after taking off the fat, put the head to the gravy. 

Season with Cayenne pepper, black pepper, salt, 

marjoram, thyme, parsley, and shalot. Simmer 

for a quarter 6f aa hour. When ready to be 

served up,, add forcemeat balls, yolks of eggs, 

and Madeira. 

OBS. 

This is a most diabolical dish, and only fit for 
the Sunday dinner of a rustic, who is to work the 



( ts ) 

Six following days in a ditch bottom. It is the 
rery essence of Pandora's box. So,— «" (Jet thee 
behind me, Satan !" 



Fish Sauce to keep a Year. 

TAKE walnuts of the size fit for pickling. Cut, 
and pound them in a marble mortar to obtain 
the juice. To a pint of juice, put a pound of an- 
chovies. Boil till the anchovies are dissolved, 
and strain through a piece of muslin. Then boil 
again, and add a quarter of an ounce of mace ; 
half a quarter of an ounce of cloves ; some wholo 
white pepper ; and seven or eight shalots ; a few 
cloves of garlic, and half a pint of white wine 

vinegar. Boil all together till the shalots become 
tender \ then strain, and when cold, bottle for use. 

* OBS. 

The bottles should not exceed in size a quarter 
of a pint. One large spoonful of this will be suf- 
ficient for a common sized boat of melted butter. 
Take care to strain the sauce carefully before 
bottling. Housekeepers who reside in the country 

F3 



( 66 ) 

should never be without this sauce in their store- 
rooms, on account of its extemporaneous nature, 
as well as for its long keeping and cheapness. 
But if they do not choose to take so much trouble, 
they will find the essence of anchovies a very con- 
venient substitute. 



An excellent Vinegar. 

TO every gallon of water put a pound of lump 
sugar. Boil, and skim as long as any scum arises* 
Pour this sweet water into an open vessel, and 
when new-milk warm, add some yest rubbed 
upon a piece of bread. When the fermentation 
has continued about twenty-four hours, put the 
liquor into an iron-hooped cask, and place it in 
the kitchen, or in a place where the sun will have 
access to it* Lay a piece of tile v over the hung 
hole* 

OBS. 

The month of March is the best time for 
making this vinegar. It will be fit to bottle 
in about six months. Place the cask in the 
kitchen, in preference to exposing it to the sun. 



L - 



ay» ■ — *mnmmmmm*mm" m ■ _■ m n.-\^. .ji wu^mmmm " u* 



( 61 ) 

To stew Beef Steaks. 

TAKE rump steaks cut thick ; give them a 
browning in a stew-pan with some butter, and a 
little water. Add a few spoonfuls of more water, 
an onion sliced, two or three anchovies, with 
pepper and salt. Cover up close, and stew the 
steaks over a slow fire for the space of an hour, 
or till they are sufficiently done. When stewed 
completely tender, add a glassful of port wine, a 
few oysters, some catchup, and a little anchovy 
liquor* Serve up hou 

V 

OBS, 

This dish contains a large quantity >of gout; 
but if the present enjoyment be the only thing 
held in view, its bad effects may in a great mea- 
sure, be taken off by. a dinner of mutton broth, or 
soup maigre, on the following day. This is a 
kind of sinning and repentance; but not much 
to be reproved, if regularly attended to. This 
practice is more justifiable than the present at- 
tempt to destroy the gout by rum or brandy, 



( 68 ) 

smuggled in large quantities, into the constitution, 
under the disguise of a medicine. 



To stfw Beef Steaks. 

TAKE three or four beef steaks cut thick, and 
season them with pepper, salt, and onion shred 
fine. Lay them in a stew-pan with some slices 
of bacon, under and over them, together with a 
piece pf butter. Stew over a slow fire for the 
space of a quarter of -an hour, after which put 
to them a pint of brown gravy, a few pickled 
mushrooms, a cucumber, a few morels, and two 
spoonfuls of pdrt wine. Stew till the' steaks 
are become sufficiently tender ; then take out 
the bacon, and skim off the fat, after which 
thicken the gravy with butter rolled in flour, 
and serve up with bread sippets. 

OBS. 

This is a good savoury dish, but it is not cal- 
culated for gouty habits. 



r 



■ 



( ' 69 ) 



To roast a Calf's Head. 

TAKE the bones out of a calf's head, and wipe 
the meat very dry. Make a seasoning with a little 
beaten mace, pepper, and salt. Chop some fat 
bacon very small", and add to it some grated bread. 
Strew this over the head ; then roll it up, and 
skewer it with some soiall skewers. Tye up the 
head and roast it, basting it with butter, or drip- 
pings. 

' 0B8. 

This is a dish of moderate expense, and may 
supply the place of a more expensive one. 



A stewed Fillet of Veal. 

TAKE a flat fillet of veal. Lard it with thick 
pieces of bacon, and season with cloves, mace, 
salt, and pepper. Skewer the fillet as close as 
possible, and having covered the stew-pan with 
slices of fat and lean bacon, put in the veal. Set 
it on a charcoal fire, and keeping the pan close 

5 



] 



( 70 ) 
covered, let the meat fry till it become of a good 
brown colour, to obtain which it must be often 
turned. Then put in a pint of water, and some 
veal gravy, with two or three blades of mace. If 
a large fillet, it will require two hours foi\stewing. 
When enough, strain off and get the sauce as free 
from fajt as possible. Thicken with the yolk of an 
egg, beat up with a little flour and water. Serve 
up with force-meat balls. 

o»g. 

To make the directions for preparing this dish 
more perfect, the quantities of seasoning should 
be mentioned ; but I find that it is impossible to 
conduct the business of the kitchen, with phar- 
maceutic precision. We therefore must, In most 

cases, submit our palates to the judgment of the 
cook. 



Macaroni. 

TAKE of macaroni a quarter of a pound. Boil 
it in milk and water till it become tender ; then 
strain ; and when put into a sauce-pan, add to it 



( 1i ) 

two large spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, 
and the same quantity of cream, a small piece of 
butter, salt and pepper to the taste. Boil all to- 
gether for about five minutes. When put into the 
dish, cover the macaroni with grated cheese, and 
brown it with a salamander. 

OBS. 

The cheese, known by the name of " Trent 
Bank," as before observed, may be made to sup- 
ply the place of Parmesan. 



A good Mess for a weak, or consumptive 

PERSON. 

* 

TAKE any quantity of veal cut into slices. 
Put the meat into an earthen pot with plenty 
of sliced turnips. Cover the vessel, and let it 
stand up to the brim in boiling water. Adda 
small portion of salt. When sufficiently done, 
serve it up. No water is required, as the turnips 
are sufficiently succulent for the purpose of ten- 
dering the meat, and extracting the juices from it. 



L 



( 72 ) 

OBS. 

This simple dish contains all the juices of the 
veal, with the addition of saccharine matter af- 
forded by the turnips. The veal must be well 
beaten, otherwise it will be rather hard. The 
Romans were acquainted with this " mode of 
cookery ; it was what they meant by per duplex 
vas coquere. We call it Balneum Maria. 



Hare Soup. 

TAKE a full grown hare, and after washing it, 
cut it into pieces. Put most of the pieces into a 
proper vessel, with "six quarts of water, together 
with a knuckle of veal, a bundle of sweet herbs, 
some salt, and a little black pepper. Stew for 
three or four hours, and then strain. Having left 
out three or four of the best pieces of the hare, fry 

them in a little butter, very quick, till they 
become of a good brown, and then put them to 
the soup. J-et it simmer for a quarter of an 
hour. Thicken with a little flour and butter, 
and serve up hot with forcemeat balls. Some add 
half a pint of red wine. 



OBS. 

This is a most excellent soup, but full of gout. 
Erperto crede Roberto* 

To make Stilton Cheese. 

TAKE sixty * quarts of new milk, and four 
quarts of cream. When luke-warm, put rennet 
as for other cheeses. Press the curd in the usual 
manner, and when put into the cheese vat, turn it 
over four or five times a day into clean cloths. 



m *-* , ,-r . i 10 1 Inches deep. 
The Cheese Vat ■ 2 * 



{ 



8 J ■ ■ i ■ over. 



OBS. 

Stilt ok cheeses are seldom used till two year* 
old. See that the rennet be perfectly sweet, for 
on that the flavour of the cheese greatly depends. 



Beef Steaks stewed with Cucumber. 

PARE four large cucumbers, and take out the 
seeds. Cut them into slices about an inch long, 
and put them Into a stew-pao with four onions 

" G 



L 



sliced, and a piece of butter. Fry these till 
brown, and add to them a pint of gravy. Dust 
in a little flour. When the cucumbers have be- 
come sufficiently tender, skim off the fat. Then 
take six ramp steaks, hating previously beaten 
and seasoned them with pepper and sat. Fry 
these quick in butter, and when sufficiently done, 
put them into a dish, and pour the cucumbers 
over them. Some persons stew the steaks and 
cucumbers together, but that is not to be recom- 
mended, as it makes the steaks hard. 

OBS. 

This dish affords a sufficient meal to persons 
who have good appetites, and who are not dis- 
posed to indulge in variety. It gives Archaeus 
very little trouble in the examination of the con- 
tents after the chyHferous process has begun. 



To DRESS DRIED CoD. 

SOAK the fish six hours in soft water, then lay 
it on a stone or brick floor for eight hours. 
Repeat the soaking for six hours, and lay it again 
on the floor for two. Brush it well with a hard 



( is ) 

brash, and boil it gently in soft water* When 
properly boiled, it will swell considerably, and 
tbe flakes will come off in an agreeable manner. 
To be eaten with egg sauce and mustard, mashed 
potatoes, or parsnips. 

OBS. 

The directions here given for the management 
of dried salt fish, previous to the boiling, are 
very judicious, and better than constant soaking. 
In this mode of preparation, the fibres of the fish 
are loosened in consequence of their sustaining 
alternate expansion and contraction, which oc- 
casions the fish to come off in flakes, . 



Fish Sauce to keep the whole Year, 

TAKE twenty-four anchovies and chop them, 
ten shalots, three spoonfuls of scraped horse- 
radish, four blades of mace, one quart of white 
wine, two quarts of water, one lemon sliced, 
one gill of anchovy liquor, twelve cloves, and 
twelve pepper corns. Boil till the whole be re- 
duced to one quart, then strain, and, when cold # 

G2 



( 76 ) 

put the liquor into a bottle. Two spoonfuls 
are sufficient for a boat of melted butter. 



Friars' Chickens. 

TAKE two or three chickens and cut them 
into four quarters. Put them > into a. little more 
water than will cover them. ' When boiled enough 
throw into the boiling broth the following : The 
whites and yolks of two or three eggs, and a 
handful of parsley shred* small. Beat up, and 
add some salt and black pepper. When thrown 
into the boiling broth, stir it gently to prevent 
the curdling into large pieces. Serve up in a 
tureen. Some veal would improve this dish. 

OBS. 

This dish contains neither gout, scurvy, nor 
rheumatism. An admirer of high-seasoned dishes 
will find this very conducive to his health, if 
served up to him once a week. It will give 
time to Archaeus to put his hous^e into order, 
after the manner of a house maid on a Saturday 
night. 



Savoury Sauce for a roasted Goose. 

A table spoonful of made mustard, half a tea- 
spoonful of Cayenne pepper, and- three spoonfuls 
of port wine. When mixed, pour this (hot,) into 
ihe bqdy of the goose, by a slit in the apron, just 
before sending it up. 

OBS. 

This is a " Secret worth knowing.** It won- 
derfully improves the sage and onion. 



Sauce tor cold Partridge, or cold Meat 

of any kind. 

BEAT up the yolk of a hard egg with oil and 
vinegar. Add a little anchovy liquor, some 
Cayenne pepper, salt, parsley and shalot, both 
chopped small. 

OBS. 

This is a good extemporaneous sauce, and of 
small price. It is excellent, for cold lobster. 

G3 






( 7S ) 

A Cream Cheese. 

TAKE equal parts of cream and new milk. 
Put to it a sufficiency of rennet ; when turned, 
break the curd, and put it into a cloth, where it 
should remain to drain ; after which put it into 
a mould, open at top and bottom, and gently 
press it down. Cover the cheese with nettles, 
and turn it every day. Some use cream alone, 
and no rennet, but cheeses so made taste too much 
of butter, and soon grpw rancid. 

OBS. 

' In making cream cheeses; thfe utmost attention 
should be paid to the rennet, which ought to be 
perfectly sweet. A thing seldom attended to. 



Ah Omelette. 
FRY some butter in a frying-pan, and, when 
hot, throw in eight eggs well beaten, and to 
which there had previously been put some 
parsley shred fine. When sent up, pour upon 
the omelette a few spoonfuls of good gravy made 
hot. Double it over to suit a long dish. 



( » ) 

tiBS. 

By judiciously beating and frothing the eggs, 
the omelette will improve in lightness. This is 
an omelette of the simplest nature. Some per- 
sons recommend scraped ham, chives, and onions 
to be beat up with the eggs, but these are not 
agreeable to every palate. Take care not to fry 
the omelette too much, as that will render it 
tough. 



An Oyster Omelette. 
TAKE six eggs, and when beat up, add the 
oysters, cleared from the beards/ and chopped 
small. Then add salt, nutmeg, and chopped 
parsley. Fry in butter, and serve up hot. This 
omelette may be made more savoury by the ad- 
dition of some catchup and grated ham, or some 
strong gravy. 



A Salad Sauce. 
TAKE the yolks of two eggs, boiled hard, a 
desert spoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, a little 
made mustard, a desert spoonful of Tarragon 

5 



»^IM<»— 1^ 



12 



( «o ) 

vinegar, and a large spoonful of catchup, When 
well incorporated, add four spoonfuls of salad 
oil, and one spoonful of elder vinegar. Beat, 
so as to incorporate the oil with the other in- 
gredients. 

OBS. 

This mixture must, not be poured upon the 
lettuce, or vegetables used in the salad, but be 
left at the bottom, to be stirred up when wanted. 
This method preserves the crispness of the let- 
tuce. Observe* that the liquid ingredients must 
be proportioned to the quantity of vegetables 
used. The Romans had a raw salad, very simi- 
lar to this, compounded from the Agreste Plus, 
and made savoury with liquamen, oil, and vine- 
gar. The liquamen was somethiug like our 
anchovy liquor, but much stronger. 



To boil Rice. 



AFTER picking the rice, and boiling it a little 
in salt and water, put it into a sauee-pan, con- 
taining a large quantity of boiling water. Let 
tfae rice boil till tender, then throw in a pint of 



( 81 ) 
cold water, and pour the whol? into a cullender 
to drain. When dry it may be served up. 

OBS. 

This is the manner of boiling rice for curries^ 
or any other purpose. If carefully done, it 
will not stick to the pan, and every grain will 
keep in a state of separation. 



A fried Curry. 

TAKE a chicken ; cut it in pieces, and fry it 

in butter till brown. Take it out, and fry some 

onions with a bit of butter, and then put them 

to the chicken, with two spoonfuls of curry 

powder. Add some thin gravy, just sufficient to 

cover the chicken, and a little salt. Cover up 

close, and give a quick boil for a few minutes ; 

take the cover off, and put in the juice of a small 

lemon. Stew over a slow fire till the gravy be- 

«. 
come of a proper thickness. Serve up hot; 



Savoury Eggs. 

BOIL any number of eggs hard, and, when 
cold, take the yolks and beat them smooth, with 



( 82 ) 

an equal number of anchovies, a little catchup 
and a piece of butter. With this composition 
fill the whites of the eggs, and that they may 
stand even, cut off a little from the thick end* 

OBS. 

This is very neat side dish for a supper* 
The composition put into the eggs admits of 
great variety. Some grated ham, or hung beef, 
may be pounded with the anchovies, but an 
experienced cook does not lUnd in need of any 
hints on this savoury subject. Thin slices of the 
white cut off from the bottom, and laid over the 
meat at the top, give the eggs an ornamental 
appearance. 



An early Spring Soup. 

TAKE a knuckle of veal chopped in pieces ; 
a quarter of a pound of lean ham ; a quart of 
whole white pease ; two or three turnips ; a leek ; 
and a little celery. Cut these into small pieces, 
and put to them four quants of soft water. 
Boil till the meat has parted with all its juices, 
and the pease have become soft* Then take out the 



^ 



'. < 



( 8S ) c 

meat and vegetables, and pulp the pease through \ 

a sieve- Season with pepper and salt to the 
taste. Take a bunch of asparagus cut small * 

to resemble green pease, the hearts of two or 
three cabbage lettuces, and some green mint cut 
small. Stew these in the soup till the vegetables be- 
come tender, taking care to keep them of a good 
colour, and not to permit them to remain too 
long upon the fire. Should the soup prove too 
thick, put to it some good broth, but if too 
thin, add a little flour and water. Should it not 
appear sufficiently green, pound a handful of 
spinage, and put the juice, when properly 
strained, into the soup, but it must not be 
boiled, for that would destroy the green colour 
of the spinage. 

9 

OBS. 

This is a very wholesome soup, bearing the 
resemblance of a green pease soup. Whenever 
the juice of spinage is used for greening, we 
should be careful not to put it to the soup in the 
act of boiling, for that would weaken it's colour. 
And when asparagus is meant to resemble green 



( 8* ) 

\ 

V 

pease, care must be taken not to subject it to too 
much heat, being a vegetable that soon becomes 
poft and loses its colour. A considerable degree 
of attention is required on the part of the Cook in 
regard to the management of the asparagus. 



«M 



An Omelette. 

TAKE six eggs. Beat them for a few minutes, 
then put to them some chopped parsley, and some 
fresh mushrooms stewed and chopped. Into the 
, pan put half a pound of butter, and when suf- 
ficiently heated, pour in the omelette, and fry 
to a nice brown ; but be careful not to permit it 
to continue too long upon the fire, Cor that would 
render it tough and hard. 

OBS. 

A salamander held for a minute over the sur- 
face, will take off the raw appearance of the 
eggs ; or the omelette may be folded over. 

A Sauce fok cold Fowl, Veal, &c» 
WHISK the yolk of an egg, then add as much 
pepper and salt as will lie upon a shilling, and 



I 85 ) 

as much shred parsley as will lie upon half a 
crown, as much shalot, or shred onion, as will 
lie upon a quarter guinea, half a tea-spoonful of 
made mustard, and two table-spoonfuls of salad 
oil. Whisk all together, and add half a spoonful 
of elder vinegar, and two spoonfuls of common 
vinegar. 



OBS. 



. This is a very wholesome sauce for the iu- 
tended purpose. 



A DtWELM OF CHICKEtf. 

TAKE a few fresh mushrooms, peeled and 
dressed as for stewing; mince them very small, 
and put to them some butter, salt, and cream. 
When put into a sauce-pan, stir over a gentle 
fire till the mushrooms are nearly done. Then 
add the white part of a roasted fowl, after being 
minced very small. When sufficiently heated,, it 
may b6 served up* 

H ^ 



/ 



■> 



» 

* OBS. 

« 

Delicate stomachs often reject things of au 
insipid nature, and when that is the case, this 
dish may be prescribed with perfect safety, 
When fresh mushrooms cannot be got, a very 
small portion of mushroom powder, or catchup, 
may supply their place. 



Scotch Barley Broth. 

TAKE a tea-cupful of pearl barley and one 
gallon of water. Boil gently for half an hour, 
then add three pounds of lean beef, or neck of 
mutton, some turnips and carrots cut small, a 
pint of green pease, if in season, and some 
onions. Let the whole boil gently for two hours 
longer in a close soup-kettle, when the broth will 

* 

be fit for use. 

OBS. , 

This is a very wholesome national dish, and 
is held in high estimation by Archseus ; it gives 
hitn no trouble, as the chyle produced by it is 
of a mild balsamic nature, and incapable of 
furring up the glandular system. 



( 81 ) 

Sheep's Head Broth. 

THIS national dish is of great antiquity, and 
only differs from the above in the addition of a 
sheep's -head ; in which case, the quantity of 
meat in the broth must be diminished. The 
head must be singed at the blacksmith's with a 
red hot iron, till not a single particle of wool 
remain. This operation requires much attention, 
as the iron must not be allowed to make any 
impression upon the skin. When singed, put 
the head into a tub of soft water for a whole 
night. After being well scraped and washed, 
split it asunder and take out the brains. Then 
put it into the kettle with the ingredients above- 
mentioned, for making broth ; but take care that 
the head be boiled sufficiently tender. Some 
persons add the feet after being singed, and . 
washed in cold water. 

-OBS. 

This wholesome dish is of great antiquity, 
being supposed by some to be the black broth 
of Lacedaemon. It can only be objected to in 

H 2 



/ 



( 88 )• 

point of colour, as all the ingredients are known 
to be perfectly clean. Were objections to be 
raised against polour, what can we say in defence 
of a curry, or a custard ? 



A Haggis. 

TAKE the large stomach of a sheep. After be- 
ing nicely cleaned, put it to soak in cold water for 
a night. Boil the pluck of a sheep till it become 
very tender ; mince it small, and season with pep* 
per, salt, and a small portion of onion shred small ; 
add a handful of oatmeal previously toasted, and 
a quart of the liquor in which the pluck was 
boiled. These being well mixed, put them into 
the stomach, which must be firmly sewed, to 
keep out the water. Then boil the bag so filled 
for three hours, and serve it up in a deep dish. 
Though the pluck Is here nientioned generally, 
w r e must observe that neither the liver, nor what 
is called the " cat's piece," is to be used It is 

the perquisite of the cat. Anatomists call it the 
spleen. Its use in the animal economy is un- 
known to physiologists. I shall venture to name 



_J 



( 83 ) . 

it " Arcbaeus's Store-room," till a better use can 
be found for it- 

OBS. 

Nice persons object to the appearance of the 

•bag when served up at the table ; but surely this 

is an ill-founded prejudice. To compare small 
things with great, the objection holds equally 

,good against a sausage, which is no other than a 
haggis in miniature* The bag is not otherwise 
used than as being made to contain the mince- 
meat. The Romans had a dish similar to this \ 
but the bag they used, was the stomach of a sow ; 
mn animal grateful to them in all its parts. The 
haggis admits of being made with expensive in* 
^gradients; m which case, the contents should be 
sent ta the table without the bag. Meat pre- 
pared by the beat of boiling water, without 
being actually exposed to it, is a mode of cook- 
ing not generally practised with us. The Ro- 
. mans knew it by the title of vas duplex. Fowls 
trussed as for boiling, when put into a sheep's 
stomach, with oysters aud their liquor,, and no' 
water > are deliriously stewed ; as in that mode, 



; 



i ■ m ipi i ■ ■-■wot^^p 



( 90 ) 

the animal juices are preserved instead of being 
drawn out* by boiling water. As the Scotch in 

early times held swine's flesh in great detesta- 
tion, we here find a proof of it in the preference 
given by them to a sheep's stomach. For this 
remark, I expect to have the thanks of # the 
learned Society of Antiquaries. The haggis may 
be defended on the principle of frugality, for 
which the Scotch have ever been remarkable, 
and lbng may they continue to be so. .For the 
moment that the peasantry of that country depart 
from the frugality of their- ancestors, luxury*, 
with her horrid train* will bring misery upon 
them, and put them into the situation of their 
neighbours in the southern parts of this happy 
island, who are rapidly advancing towards a con- 
siderable degree of debasement! la Scotland 
heavy taxes* and high rents- are kept down by 
national frugality ; but the reverse is the case with - 
their southern neighbours* Without economy,, 
heavy taxes and high rents, murt*sap the foundation 
of English agriculture. So prophecies Cassandra. 
On the marriage of a daughter of England wkh* 
a Scottish king, her attendants from England in- 



( 91 ) 

troduced a more luxurious mode of living among 
the nobility and gentry, than they had ever been 
accustomed to. The wisdom of the nation saw 
the danger ; and at the instance of the bishop of 
St. Andrew's, an act of parliament was passed, 
forbidding the nobility and gentry to live other- 
wise than as their forefathers had done. When 
our peasantry find it necessary to lay before par- 
liament their situation in regard to the increased 
farming expenses, let them look at home, and 
there they will be sure to find a permanent relief. 
To serve the farmer by raising the price of corn 

at the- expense of the public, is very unsound 

t 
pUicy, at a time when a general inclosure bill, 

and an equitable commutation of tythc?, would 

effectually answer the purpose of relief* 

As the greatest part of this digression was sent 

to- Ignotus by a gentleman possessed of the 

"Second Sight j" it is here inserted* as a corner 

dish, in compliment to him* 



1 



( *'* ) 

To dress a Beef Steak on the Moors. 

THE steak being properly seasoned with pep- 
per and salt, put it, with a bit of butter, into 
a vessel called a conjurer ; when, by the help of a 
few pieces of dry heath, or. a sheet of waste 
paper, the meat will be sufficiently done in a 
very short time. 

OBS. 

. The vessel here named a conjurer, is made 
of tin, with a lid so closely fitted that the rarified 
air cannot escape. It -acts upon the principle of 
Papin's digester, and requires a small degrecM&f 
beat; To render the stealnnore delicious, a few 
oysters may be put into the digester, and as this 
simple dish admits of a great variety, I shall ven- 
ture to recommend the addition of some catchup, 
to please the palate as* well as to satisfy the 
stomach. This is a good contrivance for person* 
whose affairs require economy in the management 
of their families, and yet whose employments in 
life may demand a course of substantial food* 
Gentlemen, who in the grouse season, go upon 



( M- ) 

« 

the moors, should be provided with this useful 
machine, which riot onta cooks meat, but ex- 
peditiously boils water. In such situations, a few 
handfuls'of dry Hug will make a convenient fuel. 
It stews moor-game very expeditiously. 



A White Soup. 

INTO six quarts of water put a knuckle of 
veal ; one large fowl cut into quarters ; a pound 
of lean ham, half a pound of rice, two anchovies ; 
a few pepper corns ; two or three onions ; a bundle 
of sweet herbs ; and three or four heads of celery. 
Stew all together till the soup become sufficiently 
strong, then strain it through a hair sieve into an 
earthen pot: after standing all night, take off 
the fat, and pour the soup clear off into a 
stew-pan, and put into it half a pound of 
almonds beat very smooth : * boil a short time, 
and run the soup through a lawn sieve ; then put 
in a pint of cream, and the yolk of an egg. 
Serve up hot. 

OBS. 

This soup may be considered as chyle ready 



( 94 ) 

prepared, and cannot but meet with the appro- 
bation of Archeeus, a^it will be the means of 
shortening his trouble in the preparation of chyle* 



To stew Car? or Tench. 

AFTER being gutted and scaled, wash and 
dry the fish weir with a cloth. Dredge with 
flour, and fry them with dripping, or rendered 
suet, until the fish become of a light brown. Put 
them into a stew-pan with a quart of gravy ; and 
the same quantity of red port wine; a spoonful of 
lemon pickle ; a spoonful of browning ; a spoonful . 
of walnut catchup: a % little mushroom powder ; 
a large onion stuck with a few cloves ; and some 
horse-radish scraped. Cayenne pepper to the 
taste. Caver the pan close to confine the steam, 
and stew gently over a stove fire, till the gravy be 
left just sufficient to cover the fish when put into 
the dish. Then take out the fish, and put them into 
* the dish in which they are to be sent Up. Put 
the gravy upon the fire, and thicken with flour, 
and a large lump of butter. Give a gentle boil, 
and pour the sauce over the fish. Garnish, if 



( 95 ) 

thought proper, with pickled mushrooms and 
some scraped horse-radish. 

OBS. 

In stewing all kinds of fish, the utmost care 
should be taken to hare them sent up to the 
table as hot as possible.; for nothing is so un- 
sightly as to see the surface of the sauce in a 
frozen state. The same may be said of all made 
dishes, where the sauce makes a conspicuous 
part. 



A Hare Soup- 

Cut an old hare into pieces, and put it, toge- 
ther with a knuckle of veal, into a jug, with 
three blades of mac£ ; a little salt ; two large 
onions ; two or three anchovies, or a red herring ; 
six morels ; and five quarts of water. Put the jug 
into a quick oven, where it must remain during 
the space of three hours, then strain into a stew- 
pan. Have ready two ounces of sago sufficiently 
boiled. Scald the liver and rub it through % 

i 

hair sieve with the back of a spoon, and put it 



4 



( ,*6 ) 

• 

into tbe soup, with the sago, which however is 
not a necessary ingredient. Place the pan -upon 
the fire, and add half a pint of red wine: keep 
stirring the soup, but do not sufFet it to boil. 

OBS. 

No gravy can be extracted from the flesh of 
any animal equal in richness to what the hare af- 
fords ; on whitfi account, the lovers of good eating 
should consider every spoonful of hare N soup as 
fraught with some danger in gouty and scorbutic 
habits. Among the Romans the hare was held in 
great estimation ; 

Inter Quadrupedes gloria prima Lepus. 

MART. 

Alexander Severus had a hare daily served up 
at bis table. Caesar says that the Britains did 
not eat the flesh of hare. Britanni Leporem non 
gustant 



To dress a Calf's Hea6. 

TAKE* calfs head with the skin oh. Scald 
off the hair, and when well washed, split the head 



{ 91 ) 

and take out the brains. Boil the head till it be- 
come tender, then from one half of it take off the 
flesh and cut it into spall pieces ; dredge with a 
little "flour, and let it stew on a slow fire for about 
a quarter of an hour in a rich white gravy made of 
veal, a piece of bacon, and seasoned with pepper 
and salt, onion, and a very little mace. Take off 
the meat from the other half of the head in one 
whole piece, and roll it like a collar, after having 
stuffed it wkh forcemeat. Stew it tender in good 
gravy. When (done enough, put it in a dish with 
the hash made of the other part of the head around 
it, and garnish withT force-meat balls, fried oysters, 
and the brains made into cakes and fried in butter. 
Wine, truffles, morels, mushrooms, or any kind 
of seasoning, to the taste. 

OBS. 

This is a savoury way of dressing a calf's head, 
but it must be considered as a dish not very proper 
for such as are afflicted with painful fits of inflam- 
matory gout, 

i 



■*?-- 



s 



/ 



( 98 ) 

A Duck stewed with green Pease. 

HALF roast a duck. Put it into a stew-pan, 
with a pint of good gravy, a little mint, and three 
or four leaves of sage cut small. Cover up close, 
and let the duck continue in the pan for half an 
hour. Put a pint of green pease, boiled as for 
eat'ing, into the pan, after having thickened the 
gravy. Dish up the duck, and pour the gravy 
and pease over it. 

OBS. 

Ducks, dressed in this manner, are full as mild 
as when roasted, and sent up with seasoning and 
gravy. This dish may be eaten in defiance of 
gout or scurvy. 



Stewed Pease with Caxf's Foot. 

STEW pease in the usual manner in gravy, to 

which put a small piece of s'ugar. Having some 

* calf's feet ready boiled and boned, put tbem in 

the centre of the dish, and pour the pease over 

them. 



A 



( 99 ) 

OBS. 

This is a very wholesome dish. It may b» 
varied by substituting calf's head in the room of 
calf's feet, or any other tender meat. A few 
stewed oysters would not make a bad dish, with 
stewed pease poured over them; but Ignotus gives 
this only as a speculation, on the value of which 
Archseus must decide. Spinage, or sorrel, stewed 
in gravy, makes a good substitute for pease. 



Green Pease stewed with Lettuce. 

BOIL the pease in hard water with a little salt 
till nearly enotfgb, after which let them be drained 
in a sieve. Cut the lettuces and fry them in but- 
ter ; then put them and the pease into a stew- 
pan with some good gravy, pepper, and salt. 
Thicken with flour and butter, and add a little 
shred mint. Send up hot. 

OBS. 

This is a very pleasant savoury dish, and as far 
as a few spoonfuls go, is not capable of doing any 
harm. 

I 2 



i 



/ 



i 100 ) 

' A DuNteLMOF Mutton., 

• 

* TAKE the caul sent in with a leg of veal, gmd 

lay it in a dish as deep as a punch bowl. Then 

take the lean part of a leg of mutton, chop it very 

small, and add to it a third of its weight of suet 

and some. beef marrow, the crumbs of a penny 

loaf, the yolks of four eggs, two anchovies chop* 

ped small, half a pint of red wine, the rind of 

half a lemon grated, and some pepper and salt. 

Mix all like sausage meat, 'and lay it in the caul 

placed in the dish. Close all up with the caul 

that hangs over, and send the dish to bake in a 

quick oven. When sufficiently done, turn it upon 

a dish, and pour ever it some hot brown gravy. 

Send up with venison sauce in a boat. la the 

north, this is called, a Royal Haggis. 

OBS. 

It is a singular circumstance, that persons of a 
gouty habit should be most fond of high-seasoned 
dishes/ such as the above. To deprive so nume- 
rous a class of men of a gratification that Nature 
so loudly calls for, would be deemed an act of 
cruelty ; and as Ignotus himself belongs to that 



( 10) ) 

class of men, he ventures to make the following 
proposal for the good of all : Let the Podagric 
enjoy his savoury dishes, on condition that every 
fourth day he submits to eat fish, plain meat, and 
a meagre soup. To this mode of living, Archaeus 
can Tiave no reasonable objection, especially as 
the family physician will be disposed to interpose, 
now and then, some gentle physic. Upon this 

head, Cels us speaks very sensibly, where he says, 
" That a healthy man under his own government, 

ought not to tie himself up to strict rules, nor to 
abstain from any sojt of food : That he ought 
sometimes to feast and sometimes to fast." — 
When applied to eating, nothing is more true than 
that, Bonarum rerum consuetudo pessima est. 



Fish Sauce for keeping. 

4 

TAKE twenty-four spoonfuls of white wine, 
twenty spoonfuls of white wine vinegar, a few 
spoonfuls of catchup, a bunch of sweet herbs^ 
some onions sliced, a few pickled mushrooms, and 
a small quantity of pepper. Let these ingredients 

13 



( 102 ) 

* simmer together about a quarter of an hour, then 
strain through a fine sieve, and bottle for use* 
To half a pound of butter rolled in flour, put six 
spoonfuls of the abore liquor, and when put into 
the sauce-pan, add a spoonful of cream. Keep 
shaking the pan one way till the whole form an 
uniform mixture. 

OBS. 

This is a very mild sauce ; and as the quantities 
of some of the ingredients are but vaguely stated, 
the housekeeper is here desired to supply that de- 
ficiency ; and indeed, the same omission will apply 
to many other receipts contained in this small 
volume, all of which every housekeeper, if she is 
upon good terms with Arduous, will be able to 
supply. 



A cheap Fish Sauce, 

1 

TO half a pound of melted butter, put tbe^ yolks 
of two eggs, well beat, and a spoonful of elder 
vinegar. Shake, or stir, one way till the whole 
l^e well incorporated. 



— *3 



( 103 ) 



This sauce was communicated to Ignotiis by a 
Burgomaster of Amsterdam on his death bed. 



A Sav.ouky Shoulder of Veal. 
TAKE a shoulder of veal and cut off the 
• knuckle and flaps. Skin it as is done with a loin 
of mutton, laking care to leave the skin fast at 
the knuckle end. Then lard the joint very thick 
with fat and lean bacon, sprinkling over it some 
pepper and salt. Rub the surface over with the 
yolk of an egg, and strew upon it some grated 
bread, a little fresh parsley shred small, some 
lemon-peel chopt very fine, and a few pickled" 
mushrooms minced very small. Over these re- 
turn the. skin, and skewer it down. Put the 
shoulder into a stew-pan with a lump of butter. 
Stew till of a light brown,, and keep turning it to 
prevent its sticking to the pan. When made 
hrown, put to it a quart of water and a spoonful 
of catchup. Let it stew till sufficiently done,' 



( 104 ) 

which may be known By the loose appearance of 
the bone. Thicken the gravy with a little flour 
and butter, and when ready to be served up, re- 
move the skin. Add forcemeat balls, mush- 
rooms, truffles, and morels. The larded side to 
be uppermost in the dish. Garnish with slices of 
lemon. 

OBS. 

When well dressed, this, is a most excellent 
dish, but it requires a considerable degree of at- 
tention on the, part of the Cook, particularly in 
the manner of taking off the skin, which, from 
its extreme thinness, can only be done by attach- 
ing a thin slice of the meat. This operation 
requires a sharp knife and a steady hand. Where 
there is a gouty tendency, this dish must seldom 
be indulged in. . , - 



To butter Crabs. 

PICK the meat from two or three crabs, and put 
it into a sauce-pan with a quarter *of a pound cf 
butter, a spoonful of lemon juice, three spoonfuls 



( 105 ) 

of gravy, with pepper, salt, and nutmeg to the 
taste. Give a gentle boil, and serve up hot, 

OBS. v 

This is a very savoury dish. It is usual to 

send it up in the shell of a crab, but that is a vul- 
gar way. 



Potted Beef. 

TAKE four pounds of beef, free from skin or 
sinews, *and rub it over with a composition of 
sugar, salt, and saltpetre, about half an ounce of 
each to the quantity of beef. In that state, let it 
lie for twenty-four or forty-eight hours, turning 
it over three or four times. Then put it into an 
oven with a little chopped suet, and about half a 
pint of water. When sufficiently stewed, drain 
the fat fcnd gravy from the meat, and pound it 
in a marble mortar till it become perfectly smooth, 
adding to it some Cayenne, white pepper, salt, 
a little pounded mace, a little of the clear 
gravy, and about half a pound of butter melted 
to an oil, and added gradually during the beatingi 
When reduced to an uniform and smooth con- * 



( 106 ) 

t 

sistence, put it into pots, and cover with melted 
butter. 

-. OBS. 

When the stomach requires solid animal food, 

and is deprived of the assistance of mastication, 
this kind of potted meat may be recommended", 

as being restorative, and easy of digestion. 



A Cream Cheese. * 

TAKE a quart of cream, and pour upon it 
balf a pint of new milk so heated as to make the 
whole of the warmth of milk from the cow. Thea 
add to it two spoonfuls of rennet, and let it stand 
before the fire till the curd be formed. Break 
the curd as little as possible, and. put it into a 
frame made of oak wood, seven inches long 
within, four, inches wide, and jthree inches and a 
half deep. This frame beiiig open at the top 
and bottom, it must be placed upon rushes to 
permit the whey to run out ; to encourage which, 
a board must be put within the frame to support 
a weight to press down the cugd, between which. 



•or \.."JV?>r 



( iof ) 

and the curd some rushes must be put. After 
standing two days, the rushes must be renewed, 
when the cheese should be taken from the vat. 
and turned as often as. necessary. ' 

OBS. 

This is a much better cheese than when made 
of all cream without rennet, as it contains a due 
proportion of cheesy and butyraceous matter. In. 
making cream cheeses, the utmost attention 
should be paid to the rennet which ought to be 
perfectly sweet. Without this precaution, it will 
Jbe impossible to make a good cream cheese. 



To stew Pease. 

i*UT a quart of green pease into a pari, with 
two cabbage lettuces, four young onions, a little 
thyme, mint, pepper and. salt, and some hard 
water. After boiling till the pease are half done, 
potfr off the water, and put in a pint of gravy, 
with a slice of lean ham, and a lump or two of 
sugar. When the pease are become sufficiently 
tender, thicken with butter rolled ia flour ; and 
iphen served up, remove the ham. 



/ 



( ios ) 



\ OBS. 



Stewed pease are, in general, an acceptable 
dish, but being disposed to produce a considerable 
degree of flatulency, they are not in all cases, to 
be recommended. Upon the whole, the pease will 
stew very well without the lettuces and onions. 



Mutton Chops. 

CUT the best part of a neck of mutton into 
chops, and season them with pepper and salt. 
When put upon the gridiron, let the fire be clear, 
and very hot, and keep frequently turning the 
chops. When sufficiently done, send them , up 
as hot as possible. The -best chops are cut 
from that part of the neck which is covered with 
fat, and which must be carefully removed. At 
the same time, the ends of the bones must be 
neatly chopped off. 

OBS. 

Thm is. a true English dish ; a«*d as mu«h 
of its merit depends on its being sent up hot, 
it can only, with propriety, make its appearance 

2 









' 



( 109 ) 

solus. A chop amateur can only relish it in 
the place where it is cooked, or within a few 
yards. 



Gallina Curds and Whey, 
- TAKE a number of the tough coats that line the 
, insides of the gizzards of turkeys and fowls, and 
after clearing them from the contained pebbles, 
strew a little salt upon them, and hang them up 
to dry. When intended for use, break a few 
pieces, and pour \ipon them some spoonfuls of 
boiling water. After standing all night, - the 
infusion may be used in the same manner as 
rennet, made from the stomach of a calf. 

OBS. 

It is a singular circumstance, that those strong 
semi-cartilaginous substances should have the 
power of coagulating milk, forming curds and 
whey of a sweeter and more delicate nature than 
what are made by rennet. In poultry, the crop, 

4 

or first stomach, does not seem to contain any 
gastric juice, its office being only that of a ma- 
cerating vessel. The gastric juice fs, conse- 

K 



L 



I no ) 

quently, to be sought for in the gizzard, or se- 
cond stomach, where it acts in aid of the tritura- 
tion, an operation performed by the strong mus- 
cular action of the gizzard upon the contained 
pebbles. Without this contrivance, the seeds 
and grains on which the. poultry feed, would pass, 
without contributing any thing towards nutrition. 
Birds of prey, whose food consists of animal sub- 
stances, have no gizzard, as they do not stand in 
peed of such an organ, their digestion, from the 
nature of their food, being of necessity per- 
formed in a muscular crop. 

This preparation of milk, when sweetened 
with sugar, makes a wholesome supper for per* 
sons of a delicate, or consumptive habit, being 
entirely free from the disagreeable flavour of 
fen net. 

Milk consists of cheesy, butyraceous, and 
watery parts^ and, on account of the warmth, 
and the mechanical process of the stomach, joined 
to the chemical properties of the acid generated 
in it, it necessarily is made to coagulate in all 
stomachs. Indeed, it makes no difference whether 
we take the cream, cheesy part, or whey, in j* 



( 111 ) 

a 

succession, or whether we consume them united 
in the. mass of the milk. In the former case, the 
separation takes place without, and in the latter, 
within* the stomach. Such being the case, this 
preparation of milk is a more elegant forrq than 
milk alone, $nd will, in general, be as acceptable 
to the stomach. 



Crimping Fan. 

IN Holland, and in. families where? the dressing 
offish is scientifically attended to, the operation 
of crimping » performed upon most kinds of 
fish* When it can be done, this cruel operation 
is performed upon the living fish ; bat it answers 
nearly as well, if performed within a few hours 
after death. The fisb^ wJien scored to the bone, 
is said to be crimped, in which state, or cut 
into pieces, it is committed to the fish-kettle, after 
lying a few hours ia cold salt and water. And 
here a question occurs, why the Epicure should 
give the preference to fish after it h^s parted with 
% considerable portion of its rich and soluble parts 
in the boiling water ? Of this question, Ignotus 

K2 






( 112 ) 

can see no other solution than, that as the fish has 
become harder, the masticating powers are longer 
employed, to the great comfort of the Epicure, 
whose palate would reluctantly part with a soft 
morsel, if another was not immediately to follow. 



To stew Pease. 
PUT a quart of pease into a stew-pan, with 
about a quart of gravy, some pepper, and salt, 
and a lump or two of sugar. Stew till the pease 
become sufficiently tender, and thicken, if re- 
quired, with a piece of butter rolled in flour. 
Serve up as hot as possible, in a covered dish. 
Some add a slice of lean ham, to be taken out 
when the pease are sent up. 

OBS. 

Ignotus does not approve of stewing a variety 
of vegetables with the pease, as they serve only 
to disfigure the dish, without adding any thing 
to the flavour of the pease. The gravy must be 
strong. When the pease are old, they should 
be half boiled in hard water before being put 
into the stew-pan. 



PUT four pounds of beef into an earthen pot, 
with a few blades of bruised mace, a. marrow- 
bone, and a pint of water. Let the pot remain 
for the space of three hours in a hot oven ; after 
which, the beef and marrow, with as much of the 
gravy as may be required, should he pounded, 
and reduced to a smooth pulp- i a a marble mortar, 
all hard and sinewy parts bping previously re? 
moved. Then take half * pound of anchovies, 
and after washing and boning them, let them be 
reduced to a pulp, with a little of the gravy that 
caipe from the beef. Season with pepper and 
salt, and after beating the anchovy and beef into 
an uniform mass, put it into' pots, and cover with. < 
melted butter in the usuaj way. Half an ounce 
of saltpetre, and the same quantity of sugar and > 
salt, should be rubbed into the meat twenty-four 
hours previous to its being put into the. oven. 

QBS. 

The marrow and anchovy not only add to the < 
flavour of the meat, but serve to keep it longer, r 

K3 



V?- __^ «**.* 



J . - — ^. 



< 114 ) 

l n a moist state. Some persons use oiled butter 
instead of marrow, but Ignotus gives the pre* 
ference to marrow, as being more congenial to 
the beef. 



Savoury Jelly. 
MAKE a stiff jelly with beef, veal, and ham ; 
season with pepper and salt, a blade or two of 
mace, and an onion. When blood-warm, put to 
it the whites of two or three eggs, and run it 
through a jelly-bag. When clear, pour the jelly 
upon the meat. f 

OBS. 

Goose-pie, or any kind of meat-pie intended 
to be eat cold, will receive much improvement 
from being covered thick with a savoury jelly, 
which should be quite clear, and as transparent 
as a Topaz, to effect which it should be made 
over night* 

* 

Stewed Cod. 

CUT some slices of cod , and season with nut- 
meg, pepper, and salt. Put them into a stew- 



tv — -v. ii i mm 1 1 «i ■■ ■ am - ? .MJ&e^AWmWMWmm^m^UUttmltBL^ 



£ 






( 115 ) 

pan with three gills of water, and a little grary. 

Cover up close, and after stewing a short time, t 

put in half a pint of white wine, some lemon 

juice, a few oysters with their liquor, a piece of 

butter rolled in flour, and two or three blades of 1 

4 

mace. When the fish is sufficiently stewed, { 

which will be in about fifteen minutes, serre up, , 

with the sauce over it. ■ 

OBS, 

Th£ Society established for ttye suppression of 
vice, having taken into their serious considera- 
tion the immoral tendency of high-seasoned 
dishes upon the manners of mankind, readily * 

prevailed on the Minister to meet their wishes, 
by laying a heavy duty on pepper, salt, and ' 

wine, thinking, that by cutting off the sources 
of culinary inflammation, the simplicity of an- 
cient times would be restored. But, like most x 
plans of reformation, the " good intention" was 
theonly thing left for the consolation of the pro- 
jectors, as PerigOrd pie, Tench, and Turtle, rose 
twenty per cent, immediately on the duties being 
laid. An instance of the obstinacy and depravity 
of mankind. 2 



( H6 ) 

Eborised Woodcocks. 

< 

CUT in piecetf two Woodcocks that h*ve been 

• ■ 

half roasted, and put them into a stew-pan with 
three quarters of a pint of gravy, an onion stud; 
with a few cloves, some pickled mushrooms, % 
small anchovy, a piece of butter rolled in flour, a, 
blade of mace, and pepper and salt to the taste. 
Simmer for about fifteen minutes, (but do not 
boil) towards the end of which time, put in half a 
pint of red wine* Serve up hot, and in a dish 
ornamented round the brim with paste. 

OBS. 

Woodcocks are generally roasted, but where 
they are plentiful, this mode of dressing consti- 
tutes a palatable variety, 



Bread foe Toast and Butter. 

TAKE two pounds of flour, after being gently 
warmed before the. fire, and rub into it half a 
pound of warm mealy potatoes. When well 
mixed, add a proper quantity pf yest and salt, 



ML 



( 1H ) 
with warm milk and water sufficient to make 
into dough, which must be allowed two hours to 
rise, before being formed intcf a loaf. Put. the 
loaf into a tin to preserve its shape, and when 
placed in the oven, take care that it be not over- 
browned. 

OBS, 

The lovers of toast and butter will be much 
pleased with this kind of bread. The potatoe is 
not here added with a view to economy, but to 
increase the lightness of the bread, in which state 
it will imbibe the butter with more freedom. 



A tame Duck stewed with green Pease. 

AFTER putting some sage and onion into the 
body of the duck, half roast it, and put it into a 
stew-pan with a pint of gravy, a little mint, and 
a few leaves of sage, chopped small. Cover up 
close, and after stewing about half an hour, put in 
a pint of green pease lightly boiled, and a few 
grains of salt. Thicken the gravy with butter 
and flour in the usual manner. When sufficiently 



V 

V 



r 



4 

t 



( US ) 



I H3 ) 
stewed, dish up the duck, with the gravy and 

nease no u red over it. 



pease poured over it. 



OBS. 



Though this is a savoury dish, it cannot be 
considered as an inflammatory one* 



To itew a Hare. 

CUT up the hare as for eating, and put h into 
ft Urge sauce-pan, with three pints of beef gtavy, 
« pint of ted wine, ati onion stuck with clove*, a 
bit of horse-radish, two blades of mace, one an- 
chovy, a spoonful of walnut catchup, one of 
browning, half a lemon, Cayenne pepper and salt 
to the taste. Cover up very close that the steam 
may not escape, and stew over a gentle fire for 
the .space of two hours* When done enough, 
put the meat intp a soup dish, and thicken the 
gravy with a lump of butter rolled in flour. 
Give a gentle boil," and pour the gravy over the 
hare., 



( n* ) 



OBS. 



This is a very savoury dish, and is liable to 
the objections made to , high-seasoned dishes in 
gouty habits. 



To stew Partridges. 

AFTER trussing the Partridges, stuff their 
craws with forced meat, and lard them down the 
sides'; then roll a lump of butter in pepper, salt, 
and beaten mace, and put it into the bodies. Sew 
up the vents, and after dredging them, fry them 
to a light brown ; then put them into a stew-pan, 
with a quart of gravy, two spoonfuls of Madeira, 
or white wine, a spoonful of mushroom catchup, 
two tea-spoonfuls of lemon pickle, an anchovy, a 
quarter of a lemon sliced, and a sprig of sweet 
marjoram. Cover up close, and stew for about 
half an hour ; after thickening the gravy, if ne- 
cessary, pour it over the partridges, and seive 
them up with boiled artichoke bottotas, cut in 
quarters, and placed round the dish* 



( 120 ) 



This is a savoury dish ; and though Archams 
is an enemy to high-seasoned dishes, Ignotus is 
of opinion that he will not object to it, if not too 
often repeated. Stomachs may be so far vitiated 
as to lose all relish for plain roast, or boiled 
meat, in which case the patient should apply to 
his physician, rather than persevere in the con- 
stant use of savoury and high-seasoned dishes, to 
the gfeat annoyance of Archsus, who cannot 
discharge his necessary duty without a supply of 
such bland particles as are afforded by unadul- 
terated flesh meat. 



Pease Soup, Maigre. 

TO a quart of split pease put three quarts of 
water, and boil gently till the pease are perfectly 
dissolved; then pulp them through. a sieve, and 
return them into the water, with the addition of 
carrots, turnips, celery, leeks, thyme, sweet 
marjoram, onions, three anchovies, or a red 



< 121 ) 

herring, and a few pepper-corns. When suffi- 
ciently stewed, strain, and put to the soup some 
drowning. Add catchup and salt; Send up with 
fried bread cut into small squares. 

OBS. 

This is a good set-off against high-seasoned 
dishes. An occasional abstinence that does not 
allow the stomach to be quite empty at any one 
time, is a measure highly salutary, and for reli- 
gious purposes, is, perhaps, preferable to long 
fasting, a practice medically to be condemned. 
An honest Physician who, regardless of his fees, 
can view with pleasure the healthy state of a 
family where he has been received with kindness, 
will be happy in the recommendation of a practice 
that is calculated to preserve the general health 
of his friends. But to thp disgrace of a pro- 
fession, otherwise useful and honourable, there 
are some men, who, like the savages upon a 
rocky coast, view an epidemical disease as a 
" God-send. " 



f 



K r*2 ) 

A Fi&h Soup. 

TAKE four pounds of scate and four quarts of 
water. Boil down to two ; then add six onions, 
some sweet herbs, parsley, carrots, and turnips, 
with a small bit of celery. When sufficiently 
boiled, strain off, and thicken with a piece of 
butter rolled in flour. Take the inside of a small 
roll and fry it. Then chop some of the fish 
-with a little parsley and butter, and put it to 
the soup, with seasoning to the taste. Fill the 
roll with some of the fish, and send up hot in a 
tureen. 

ofis. 

In this receipt for a maigre soup, much is left 
to the taste of the Cook. It constitutes a very 
palatable dish, and comes well recommended to 
Jgnotus. 



A Pease Soup, Maigre. J 

BOIL pease, turnips, carrots, celery, onions, 
anchovies, leeks, and all sorts of sweet herbs, 



i ' 123 ) 

m the requisite quantity of water. When suffi- 
ciently tendered, strain, first through a cul- 
lender, then through a sieve. Take a quarter of 
a pound of butter rolled in flour ; brown it, and 
add it to the soup, with two or three spoonfuls o£ 
catchup. Add some cut turnips, carrots, leeks, 
and lettuce, after being separately boiled. Season 

with pepper and salt. If wished to be green, 
bruise some spinage, and add the juice to the 
soup when about to be removed from the fire. 



OBS. 



The ingredients of this soup not being mu- 
nutely described as to quantities, much must be 
left to the taste and judgment of the Cook in the 
composition of this very excellent soup. 



A White Pease Soup, Maiore. 
TAKE half a pint of whole white pease, and 
boil in three quarts of water, with four large 
onions, a bundle of sweet herbs, one head of 
celery, four blanched leeks, one parsnip, \>ne car* 
rot, one turnip, three cloves, and two or thre* 
4 L2 



( 124 *) 

leaves of mace. When boiled down to three 
pints, rub the ingredients through a sieve, and put 

them and the soup again upon the fire, with a 
piece of butter rolled in flour. Having beat three 
eggs into a pint of cream, put them gradually 
into the soup, which must not be suffered to boil. 
If agreeable, some fried spin age and fried bread 
may be added. 

• OBS. 

* * 

This is a very good maigre soup. Whole 
pease exceed in flavour those that are split. 



To roast a Fowl with Chestnuts. 

BOIL about a dozen and a half of chestnuts 
till tender, and after taking off the outer and inner 
coats, pound a dozen of them in a mortar. Par- 
boil the liver of the fowl, and beat it smooth, to- 
gether with a quarter of a pound of bacon. 
When the bacon is sufficiently pounded, add 
parsley and sweet herbs chopped fine, and season 
with pepper and salt, and such spices as are 
most agreeable. Add the pounded chestnuts, and 



( »« ) 

with the mixture fill the crop and body of 
the fowl. For sauce, take the remaining chest- 
nuts, and after pounding them very smooth, put 
them, together with a few spoonfuls of gravy, and 
a glassful of white wine, into some melted butter. 
When served up, pour the sauce over the fowl, 
or only into the tlisb. 

OBS* 

A fowl so stuffed, must be roasted upon a 
hanging spit, with the nfeck downwards. This 
Is a dish of French extraction, and if scientifically 
conducted, will be found very palatable. The 
English Cooks keep all their Spices in separate 
boxes, hut the French Cooks make a spicey mix- 
ture that does not discover a predominancy of 
any one of the spices over the others.. In this,, 
there is a great deal of good sense, as it enables. 
them to season their, dishes in an equal and 
uniform manner, which is not the case with us^ 

Upon this principle,, the Curry powder is, pre-* 
pared. 

La 



( 126 ) 

An Omelette. 

BREAK any number of eggs, and put to them 
the juice of an orange. Season with a little salt, 
and put in a few spoonfuls of gravy. Beat up 
all together, and put the mixture into a pan in 
which a portion of butter has been melted. 
Take care that the omelette does not stick to the 
pan, and be careful that it does not remain too 
long upon the fire, as that would occasion it to 
become tough and hard. A salamander held over 
the surface will take off the raw appearance of the 
eggs - 9 but folding over is the better way. 

OBS. 

This kind of omelette was the invention of a 
lady who had it regularly served up at her table 
three days in a week, and who died at the age of 
ninety-seven, with a piece of it in her mouth. ., 
Persons who form their judgments on a few acci- 
dental cases, are at liberty to use this, in proof of 
fried eggs having the property of lengthening 
life beyond the period of three score and ten. 
This being an age of credulity, the parent of im- 
position, Ignotus is informed from respectable 



.**__*». 



. ( 127 ) ' j 

authority, that in consequence of this accidental 
longevity, eggs have risen ninety per cent, in the 
small town of Wells, in North America, where 
the old lady was born and died. 



An Anchovy Toast. x 

* TAKE six or seven anchovies, and after boning V 

and skinning them, pound them in a marble 
mortar, with half an ounce of butter, so as \o 
make the mass of an uniform colour. Spread 
upon narrow pieces of toasted bread ; or it may 
be sent up in the form of a Sandwich. 

OBS. 

This savoury toast is sufficient to quiet a 
craving stomach at noon, without the aid of ham, 
chicken, or coli beef. " Woe unto thee, O 
Land, when thy Princes eat in the morning." 
Arcbaeus complains, that the innovation of eating 
meat between meals gives him an intolerable de- 
gree of trouble, as it takes up the time that he 
could better employ in his other important duties. 

Van Helmont gave the name of Archaeus to a spirit 
that he supposed existed in the body, for the pur- 
pose of regulating and keeping in order the innu- 



>»• T^ 



merable glands, ducts, and vessels; and thought 
this spirit visits every part, his chief post is at the 
upper orifice of the stomach, where he acts the* 
part of a custom-house officer, allowing nothing 
to pass unexamined that, by the law of nature, has 
the appearance of being contraband. This part of 
his duty being only required during meal-times, 
the remaining part of the twenty-four hours (for 
he never sleeps) is employed in rubbing, scrub- 
bing, and repairing the waste of the body occa« * 
sioned by the continual fri&ion of the fluids against 
the sides of the containing vessels. For this last 
purpose, and an important one it is, he is sup- 
posed to select from the chyle such particles as 
he may stand in need of; but as he may 
sometimes be in want of one kind more thau of 
another, he very judiciously obtains it by bring- 
ing on a longing for a particular kind of food. 
For example, when the internal coat of the in- 
testines is abraded by a Diarrhoea or Dysentery, a 
longing is brought on for fried tripe with 
melted butter, as containing, the greatest quan- 
tity of materials proper for the repair of bowels 
so disordered. To this circumstance, modem 



( 12? ) 

physicians do not sufficiently attend, neither are 
they sufficiently awake to the necessity of pre- 
scribing a diet for persons in health, whose chyle 
should be of a nature for supplying Archsus 
with general materials withoqt compelling him to 
call for them. The folly, therefore, of keeping 
to one kind of diet, whether high or low, is 
abundantly evident, as in that case, Archaeus 
must sometimes be overstocked with materials 
that he may have no occasion for, and be in 
want of such as his office may stand in need of* 
And here it will be necessary to remark, for the 
information of medical men, that a microscopical 
examination of the chyle of different men, made 
after sudden deaths, has proved to a demonstra- 
tion, that the chyle of the human body contains 
different shaped particles, round, oval, long, 
square, angular, kidney-shaped, heart-shaped, 
&c. varying according to the food taken in. 
In consequence of this important discovery, the 
practitioner has only to direct such food as may 
contain the particles that Archaeus may stand in 
need of. For example : Are the kidneys dis- 
eased? Then prescribe stews and broths, made 



' ( 130 ) 

of ox, deer, and sheeps' kidneys. Asthmas 
require dishes prepared from the lungs of sheep, 
deer, calves, hares, artd lambs. Are the in- 
testines diseased? Then prescribe tripe, boiled, 
fried, or fricasseed. When this practice has 
become general, Archttus will be enabled to 
remove every disease incident to tl*e human 
body, by the assistance of the cook only. And 
as all persons, from the palace to the cottage, 
will receive the benefit of my discovery, I shall 
expect a Parliamentary reward, at least equal to 
what was given to Mrs. Stevens, Dr. Jenner, and 
Dr. Smyth. On the last revision of the College 
Dispensatory, among other things of less moment, 
such as ordering fomentations to be made with 
distilled water, the name of Archaeus was changed 
into Anima Medica, as more expressive of a 
M^id Servant of all Work. With men of deep 
researches, I will not dispute the propriety of the 
alteration, as I conceive that such a violence 
could not be done but after serious investigation. 
In order to give my readers a more compre- 
hensive idea of the government and powers of 
Archseus, 1 shall beg leave to present them with 



fa. 



::» 



- - ■-■'- i,-',' ii iJmjm iJMMMa KE^BBMa^l: "1'iifchi I V 



*be following Dialogue between him and Dr. 
Franklin, when in France, on the subject of the 
gout, which for sound sense exceeds all that hat 
ever been written on that dreadful 



DlAXOGUE. 

Dr. Franklin. Eh! Oh! Eh! what have I 
done to merit these cruel sufferings ? 

Archaus. Enough, Enough : you have ate, and ' 
drank too much, and over indulged those legs of 
yours in their indolence. 

Dr. Franklin. Who is it that thus accuses me ?* 

Atchaus. It is I, even I, Ai chaeus. 

Dr. FrmHim What ! my enemy in person 1 

Arc hams. No ! not your enemy. 

Dr. Franklin. I repeat it, my enemy ; for you 
jjWuld at once torment my body to death, and 
|\ \in my good reputation: you reproach me as a 
I glutton and a drunkard ; now all the world that 
knows me will allow that I am neither the one nor 
the other, 

Areh&us. The world, may think as it pleases: 
it is always very complaisant to itself, and some- 



( 132 . ) 

times to its friends ; but L know full well that the 
quantity of nourishment proper for one who uses 
suitable exercise would be too much' for another 
who uses none. 

Dr. Franklin. I take — Eh ! — Eh — as much ex- 
ercise — Eh!— as I can. You know my sedentary 
state ; and, in regard to that, it would seem, Sir, 
you might spare me a little, seeing it is not alto- 
gether my fault. 

Archaus. Quite otherwise ; your rhetoric and 
your politeness are thrown away ^ your apology 
avails nothing. If your situation in life is a se- 
dentary one, your amusements and recreations 
should be active. You ought to walk or ride ; 
or if the weather prevent that, play at Billiards. 
But let us examhie your course of life. While 
the mornings are long, ^nd you have leisure to 
go abroad, what do you do ? Why, instead of 
gaining an appetite for breakfast, by salutary ex- 
ercise, you amuse yourself with books, pamphlets, 
or gazettes, which commonly are noi worth the 
reading. Yet you eat a large breakfast, four 
dishes of tea, enriched with slices of hung beef 
and ham, which I fancy are not the most digestible 



( 13S ) 

things. Immediately afterwards, you sit down 
to writing at your bureau, or discourse with per- 
sons who apply to you on business ; thus the time 
passes till one, without any kind of bodily exer- 
cise. But all this I could pardon, in regard as 
you say, to your sedentary condition. But what . 
is your practice after dinner. Walking in the 
beautiful gardens of those friends, with whom 
you hare dined, would be the choice of men of 
sense; yours is to be fixed down to a game of 
chess, where they find you thus engaged for two 
or three hours ! This is your perpetual recreation, 
and the least eligible of any for a sedentary man, 
because, instead . of accelerating the motion of 
the fluids, the rigid attention it requires helps to 
retard the circulation, and obstructs internal se- 
cretions. Wrapt in the speculations of this 
thoughtful game, you destroy your constitution. 
What can he expected to result from such a 
course of living, but a body replete with stagnant 
humours, ready to fall a prey to all kinds of 
dangerous maladies, if the gout did not bring 
you relief by settling these humours in their 
M 



1 



I 



( 184 ) 

proper placet. If it waft in some alley in Paris, 
deprived of walks, that you played a while at 
ttoess, who would not excuse yon ? but the safe* 
taste prevails with you in Passey, Auteuil, Mont* 
toarte or Savoy : places furnished with the finest 
gardens and walks; and beautiful ladies, Who 
there breathe a pure air, and render the air still 
more intitiftg by their most agreeable and in* 
structive conversation ; all which you might en- 
joy by frequenting the walks! But all are as 
certainly rejected for this abominable game of 
chess. Fie, then, Dr. Franklin! But amidst 
my instructions* I had almost forgot to bestow 
some wholesome correction : so take a twinge. 

Dr. Franklin. Oh! Eb! Oh! Ohhh! As 
much instruction as you please, Sir, and as many 
reproaches ; but pray, Sir, a truce with your 
corrections. 

jirek&us. The very reverse ; I ^ill net abate 
a particle of what is so much for your own good ; 
so take another twinge. 

Dr. Fratiklin. Oh ! Ehh ! It's not fair to say I 
take no exercise, when I take it very often ; going 
out some miles to dine, and returning in my carriage. 



( W ) 

Archaus This, of all imaginable exercises, is 
the most slight and insignificant, if you allude to 
the motion of a carriage suspended on springs* 
In observing the degree of heat obtained by the 
different kinds of movement, one way form an 
estimate of the quantity of exercise given by 
each. Thus, for example, if you turn out to 
walk in winter with cold feet, io an hour's time 
you will be in a glow ail orer; ride on horse- 
back, the same effect will scarcely be produced 
by four hours round trotting ; but if you loll in 
such a carriage as you use, you may go a journey, 
and gladly enter the last inn, to warm your feet, 
by a fire. Flatter yourself, then, no longer, that 
an hour's airing in your carriage deserves the 
name of exercise. Providence has appointed few 
to roll in carriages — to all he has given a pair 

of legs, which are, in truth, machines infinitely 
more commodious and serviceable. Be grateful, 
then, and make a proper use of yours. Would 
you know how they forward the circulation of 
your fluids in the very action of transporting 
you from place to place ; observe when you 
walk, that all your weight is alternately throw a 

M2 



*v 



( 136 ) 

from one leg to the other ; this occasions a great 
pressure on the vessels of the foot, and propels 
their contents. When relieved by the weight 
being thrown on the other foot, the vessels of the 
first are. allowed to replenish ; and by a return of 
the weight, this repulsion again succeeds : thus 
accelerating the circulation of the blood. The 
heat produced in any given time, depends on the 
degree of this acceleration ; the fluids are shaken, 
the humours attenuated, the secretions are facili- 
tated, and all goes well ; the cheeks are ruddy, 
and health is established. Behold your fair 
friend at Auteuil, a lady who received from 
bounteous Nature more really useful science, than 
half a dozen such pretensions to philosophy as 
you have been able to extract from all your 
books. When she honours you with a visit, it is 
on foot ; she walks all hours of the day, and leaves 
indolence and its concomitant maladies to be en- 
dured by her horses. See at once the preserva- 
tive of her health, and personal charms. On the 
other hand, when you arrive at Auteuil, its in 
your carriage, though its no farther from Passey 
to Auteuil, thai} from Auteuil to Passey. 



■ ■ ■» "^ <■— ^^rm^mm*m*me5^me m ^F1*—*m 



( 137 ) 

J9r. Franklin. Your reasonings grow «ry 
tiresome. 

Arcfutus. I stand corrected ; I will be silent 
and continue my office ; take this, and this. 

J)r. Fmnklm. Qh ! Ohh !*— Talk on I pray 

.you. ' 

Archtew. JNFo, no ; I have a good number of 
twinges for you this night, and the rest yew amy 
be sure of to-morrow. 

J9r. Fran/elm, , Wb»v w* ta stif* a fever ; Eh t 
Eh, !-^I shall go detracted, £an no one hear it 
for me? 

Archau^ 4sfe that of your horses ; they have 
served you faithfully* 

Dr.Franklin. How can y$u so cruelly sport 
with my torments ! 

Arclwus. I am very serious : I have here a 
list of your offences against your own health dis- 
tinctly Written, and cttn justify every pang in*- 
ittcted on you. 

Dr. Franklin. Let's hear it then* 

Archaus. Its too long in detail -^ you shall have 
it briefly- 

Dr.. Franklin* Proceed — I am .all-attention*. 

3ML& 



. ( l" ) 

Archaus. Can you remember how often yon 
have appointed the following morning for a walk 
in the grove of Boulogne, in the garden de la 
Muette, or in your own, and that you violated 

your promise ; alleging, at one time it was too 
cold, at another too warm, too windy, too moist, 

or too what else you pleased ; when in truth it 
was to nothing but your insuperable love of 
ease. 

Dr. Franklin. That I confess may have hap- 
pened sometimes ; probably ten times in a year. 

Archarus. Your confession is very imperfect ; 
the gross amount is one hundred and muety-nioe 
times. 

Dr. Franklin. Is it possible ? 

Archaus. So possible, that it is fact ; you may 
rely on the accuracy of my statement. ¥oa 
know Mr. B — — *s gardens, and what frne walks 
tbey contain ; you know the handsome fright of a 
hundred steps which lead from the terrace above 
to the level below. You have been in the prac- 
tice of visiting this amiable family twice a week 
after dinner, and it being a maxim of your own 
invention, that " one may take as much exer- 



JU», 



( las y 

" cise in walking a mile up and down stairs, as 
" in ten on level ground," what an opportunity 
was here for you to exercise in both these ways ? 
Did you embrace it, ajid bow often ? 

Dr. Franklin. 1 cannot at once answer this 
question. 

Arch mis. I will do it for you ; not oneev 

Dr % Franklin. Not once ! * 

Archaus. Even so ; all the summer you went 
there at six o'clock. You found the charming 
lady, r with her lovely children and friends, eager 
to walk with you,, and entertain you with their 
agreeable conversation ; and what has been your 
choice? Why ta sit on the terrace,, satisfying 
yourself with the fine prospect, and passing your 
eye over the beauties of the gardens below, but 
without taking one step to descend, and walk 
about theou On the contrary yon call for tea, 
and the chess-board ; and lo ! you are occupied 
in your seat till nine o'clock ; and that beside 
two hours play after dinner: then, instead of 
walking home, which would have done you some 
good, you stept into your carriage. How ab- 
surd to suppose that all this carelessness can be 



( 140 > 

•ttJancileaWe to good health without my interpo- 
sttion! 

Dr. Franklin* Now I am eonvinced of due 
justness of poor Richard's remark, that, " Oar 
u debts and our sins ace always greater than we 
« think of." 

Arch*u$* So k is ! yoo philosophers a#e stges 
in your maxims, and fools in your conduct. 

Dr. Franklm. But do you charge amojog my 
crimes that I ^return in a carriage from Mr. B— '6 h 

Anchaw. Certaiely : for haying been seated 

4U the while, you- cannot plead the' fatigue of 
the day* to want the indulgence of a carriage. 

Dr. Franklin. How would you advise m« 
then to employ my carriage £ 

Arckmus* Bum it if you choose y you -would 
At least get heat oat of it once is this way m r or, if, 
you reject this proposal, here's another for yoju;. 
4ake notice of the poor peasants who work in the 
vineyards and groumls tfhout the village of. Pas- 
sey, Auteuil, Chaillois* &c» you may daily among 
*hese deserving creatures find four or five old. 
-men and women, bent and perhaps crippled «n- 
<der the weight of years, or toy ;oyef sftaining and 



( i« ) 

tod long continued labour. These people after a 
most fatiguing day, have to walk a mile or two 
to their smoaky huts. Order your coachman to 
set them down. See, there's an act for you, of 
importance to the good of your soul ; and at 

the same time, after your visit to the Br 's, if 

you return on foot, that will be good for your 
body. 

Dr. Franklin. Ah ! how fatiguing you are. 

Archaus. Let us return to my office ; it should 
be remembered I am your Physician. 

Dr. Franklin. Ohhh ! — The devil of a physi- 
cian! 

Archans. What an ungrateful man you are 
to say so ! Is it not I, in the character of your 
physician, who have saved you from the palsy, 
the dropsy, and apoplexy ? one or other of 
which would have killed you long ago but for 
me. 

Dr. Franklin. I submit, and thank. you for 
the past ; but entreat discontinuance of your 
visits for the future : for, in my mind, one had 
better die, than be cured so cruelly. Permit me, 
Arch&us, just to hint that I have not been uo* 



( H* ) 

friendly toyou-~l never fee'd physician or quack 
of any kind to enter the lists against you: if 
then you don't leave me to my repose, it may be 
said you are ungrateful too. 

Arch*u$, I scarcely acknowledge that* as any 
Objection. As to quacks, I despise them ; they 
may ruin your health by their disguised rum and 
brandy, and can only affect me by bringing ltpotk 
you jaundice and dropsy, diseases concomitant 
on dram drinking. And as to the regular physi- 
cians, they are convinced, that the gout, in su«b 
8 subject as you are, k no malady, but a remedy ; 
and wherefore attempt to remove a remedy ?•— 
'But to our business.— There*— 

Dt. Franklin. Oh! Oh! for Heaven's sake 
quit; 'and 1 promise faithfully never more to pfcjr 
at chess, but exercise daily, and to live tern?* 
perately. 

Archaus* I know you too well. — You pro- 
mise fair : but after a few months of good health, 
you'll return to your old habits ; your fine pro- 
mises will be forgot like the forms of the last 
year's clouds. Come, then ; we'll finish the ao* 
count. Baft I leave you with an assurance est 



< 1*3 ) 
giving ydu Another fit at a proper time* Youc 
good is my object; and I now hope that you ate 
sensible of my being your rgal friend* 

Since perusing the above dialogue, Ignotu* it 
informed by Arobaius, that my attempts to e** 
terminate the gout are as absurd, as for a man to 
attempt to stop the current of a river in its hasty 
passage to the sea, by damming jt y p. The 
neighbouring country would soon feel the kicoa* 
yenience. The remedies known are but pallia? 
tives, and these lie, as we are informed bj 
Archaeus, in the small compass of two significant 
words, Temperance and Exercise. 



A Green Pease Soup without Meat. 

TAKE a quart of old green pease, and put them 
into two quarts of water, with a sprig or two of 
, mint. Boil till the pease become very soft, and 
then pulp them through a sieve. Put the pulp 
and water into a stew-pan, with a pint of young 
pease, two or three cucumbers cut into thicJt 



4 



( H4 ) 

square pieces, lettuce stalks with the leaves cut 
off, and an onion or two* Put to them a few 

ounces of butter. Salt and pepper to the taste. 

> 

Boil gently, or rather simmer over the fire. If 
not sufficiently green, add to the soup some 
spoonfuls of spinage juice, a few minutes before 
sending up. 

OBS. 

This is a very pleasant and wholesome soap 
for all ages and constitutions, and will be very 
proper for those who the day before have plenti- 
fully eat of a fiery turtle soup. 



A Partridge Soup. 

TAKE two or three old partridges, and after 
taking off their skins, cut them into small pieces, 
and fry them in butter, with a few slices of ham, 
some onions, and celery. When feted very brown, 
put them into a stew-pan, with three quarts of 
water, a few pepper-corns, and a little salt. Boil 
slowly till a little more than a pint and a half 
of the soup is consumed. Then strain, and 
serve up hot. 



^Mta 



OBS. 

This soup being neither strong, nor made 
fiery with* seasonings, may be recommended to 
all ages and constitutions. It is pleasant, and 
perfectly harmless. The addition of a few pieces 
of veal, or a little veal gravy, need not be ob» 
jected to. 



Sauce for boileivCarp. 
STEEP in warm water, one ounce of morels. 
Put to them a quarter of an ounce of Jamaica 
pepper, half a quarter of an ounce of scraped 
ginger, a few corns of black pepper,. a piecfe of 
lemon peel, near a pound of onions, and a hand- 
ful of parsley. Boil till the onions become soft, 
then take out the 'morels, and squeeze the rest 
very dry. Add to the liquor, three anchovies, a 
spoonful and a half of catchup, four spoonfuls of 
Ted wiue, and half a spoonful of vinegar* Then 
cut the morels, and put them to the liquor. 
Thicken with three quarters of a pound of butter 
rolled in flour. This will make a pint of sauce. 
When set on to boil, let the ingredients be barely 
covered with water. r 

N 



( l ,i6 } 



OBS. 

This is a very rich Sauce, bat many people, 
with sufficient reason, prefer the Dutch sour 
sauce for boiled carp; and, indeed, these rich 
sauces overpower the natural taste of most kinds 
offish. 



A White Soup. 

TAKE a knuckle of veal, and a full grown 
fowl cut .into four pieces. Boil in six quarts of 
water, with a little rice, two anchovies, a bunch 
of sweet herbs, some white pepper, onion, and 
celery. Stew till the gravy has become sufficiently 
strong ; then run it through a sieve, and let it 
stand all night, when the fat should be taken off. 
Put to the soup a quarter of a pound of beaten 
almonds, which must be run through a sieve. 
Before the soup is served up, put to it half a pint 
of cream, and the yolk of one egg beat up. 
Send up as hot as possible, as nothing is so un- 
pleasant as cold soup. 



nT?* — 



( H7 ) 

A French Soup. 
TAKE some coarse beef, a'Jcnuckle of veal, 
and a fowl cut into quarters. Put these into a 
stew-pan, with a sufficient quantity of water ; boil 
slowly, and skim well during boiling. Add six 
turnips, six carrots, six large onions, six leeks, 
three parsnips, a stick of celery, some parsley 
roots, sweet basil aqd burner, one handful, lovage 
and chives, half a handful. Let this stock boil' 
gently for eight hours, then strain and let it stand 
till the next day, when the fat should be taken 

clean off. Take some chervil, turnips, celery, 

• 

onions, endive, sorrel, cabbage-lettuce, and the 
leaves of white beet. Stew these very slowly in a 
little more than half a pint of the soup till they 
become*quite tender ; then add of these wh it por- 
tion you please to the quantity of soup that is re- 
quired* Send up hot with a French roll or with- 
out it. 

This' is a most excellent tasted soup, but the 
preparation is attended with a great deal of 
trouble, and perhaps the want of precision in the 
quantity of the ingredients may be objected to. 

N2 



It may be generaljy,.9lj$ej:ved ,of .gravy soups, that 
they should tie ^liv^st^d ,pf fat, whiej* canity be 
^aqcoropliahed^y.pr^fiJiriagjthem.over night, and 
,suJFering th^ni to st*nd Jill the fat has, become 
cold. So managed, jt he soup will become £s dear 
*s amber, and do tfce-CoQk sppje, credit ; t nothing 
is $o disagreeable ,as /i j»uddy gr,avy soup* 



•■i 



A White Soup. 

TAKE & knuckle of veal, two calfa feet, two 
anchovies, a slice of ham, two heads of celery, 
three onions, a few sweet herbs, a few pepper* 
corns, and one ounce of sweet almonds blanched 

m - 

and beat fine. §tew all over a slow fire, with ~ 
the required quantity of water, taking off the 
scum as it rises. Strain the liquor off, and, 
When put upon the fire next day to boil, add to 
it two ounces of vermicelli. Just before it is 
sent up, put in half a pint of cream, and give it 
& gentle boil. 



'"'V 



"^ 



( 149 ) 

OBS. 

This soup is very restorative, and cannot but 
agree with constitutions that require a Wand 
nourishments 



A Maigre Onion Soinv 

TAKE twelve large onions* two carrots, two* 

heads of celery, and one turnip. Slice these in* 

« 

gredienta very thin, and fry them in half a pound 
of butter till they become brown* Then add 
four quarts of boiling water 9 four anchovies,, 
four blades of mace, and a few pepper-corns*. 
Two penny rolls of white bread; Boil all toge- 
ther till the bread is reduced to a pulp* Then: 
strain through a hair sieve, and set it again upon 
the fire. Skim it well, and thicken with the yolks 
of six eggs. When sent up, add fried bread cub. 
in the form of dice,, or a French roil . . 

* i 

OBS.. . 

t This- is a very good maigre soup, the ingret- 
dieaUbeir^ well defined* 



m 



( **9 } 

A Green Pease Soup. 

TO a gaUpjj pf water, |)*t ^ fli?art pf fojl gto^a 
green pease, three onions, a head of cglpjy, 0R£ 
carrot, half a turnip, a sprig of min{« a slice of 
lean ham, two or three anchovies, and a few pep- 
per-corns. Boil till the ingredients, tjecome quite 
soft, and after being strained and pressed through 
a. hair sieve, put the soup into a stew-pan, with 
some cucumber that has been previously fried* 
Add half a pound of butter rolled in flour and 
melted. Into the soup poor the butter and cu- 
cumber together. Add a little cabbage-lettuce 
diced, and a pint of very young pease. Stew to- 
gether till the soup become of a proper thickness,, 
taking care to stir it very often. Serve up hot 
with a French roll. Some add a lump of sugar. 



A White Dsnilm Sou*. 

TAKE a large knpckle of veal, a fowl, or the 
scrag-end of a neck of mutton, m slice of lean ham, 
three anchovies, two heads of celery, one turnip, 



mm^mmm wpm~**ammam ■—■ypiy^ _ ■r» ^gy w ^ B py^,^ 



* frHP<* <tf ?WP? k Iw^s, ifa WHOgs, *nj a fejf 

^ j*a*er. Sfe«r jU| qf gtffcjqK ptttegb, tbea 
H}9 *fc jpqp tbr^figJ? #• b»« W¥<* iftfo ap *ajtta» 
# Y^sse}. When coLjl* take off the fet* and ba» 
ready Ihe yolk* pf *i* b%rfl eggp, arfijeeqffia* 
white bread, steeped i* a pint tf wtfk poured 
hotting hot wppn it. A quarter of a powd *>£ 
street alqooftds be&t very fine. ffab these thropgfe ' 

a friers ifttQ the swp> tkw pet it «* * do* fbp> 

and pour m half * pipt of crea^ withio * *bof ^ 
time of sending up. Stir the soup till it become 
of a proper thickness. Put to it a French roll, or 
tfcin slices of foea^, wjjipb mu# {# ^atefl ift {he 
soup before serving up/ 

OBS» 

This soup is rich, wholesome, and restorative. 



TAME {wetae cajrote, a#ji aft^r sc^a^g t^ 

. - > 

ektan, rasp them to tb* cprfj, y high nitftt ijqt b# 
used, Sout head* of qetecy cut sgiaj], t$Q }ajg* 






Vi> .r-^r^ 



M 



{ 152 ) 
onions shred, a handful of spinage shred, a little 
sorrel, or jtriee of lemon, and a. few pepper-corns. 
Stew tbese in half a pound of butter over a store, 
very slowly, and keep- stirring them till the roots 
and herbs become soft* Then pour in beef gravy 
with the soft part of a penny brick. Boil till the 
bread has become very soft, then strain through 
a sieve. Pat the. soup, so strained, into a sauce- 
pan, boil it slowly, and skim it frequently. A» 
soup prepared in this manner should be- about the? 
thickness of cream. Send up hot. 

OBS. 

This is a very wholesome soup on account of 
its principal ingredient.. ' 



A White Soup; 

TAKE a large knuckle of veal, an old hen r 
a shank of ham, a little mace*, a few corns of 
white pepper \ a head of celery, a little parsley, a. 
small onion, and one anchovy. Cover these in». 
gredients with a sufficiency, of water,, and placet: 



r^ ■■ mm ■ ■ ■*^wwp^— www 



the pan uppn a slow fire. When it has continued 
#ejBing.till,it arises jto tiyp *jswte>;*ron, *and 
when cold, skim off the fjat. Ifyit tfee cloajr part 
into a stew-pan. Take the crumb of a penny 
loaf, boiled soft, in a gill of milk* When the 
bread has become jsoft add it i to the soup. Add 
the ytilks pf .six hard eggs,, three ounces of hlanch~ 
^cLftloiQttda both beaten .well in a mortar, Miitbta 
little Cayenne pepper. Qire the whole a hotU 
Attain, and add a gill of cream. 

OBS. 

Tijis is a pjea,sant restorative ,spup, , 



. <■ 



A Veal Soup. 

TAKE p knucjde of yeal 4 two t^nips, r tj¥p 
carrots, two heads of celery, six onjonp, and ^ 
gallon of water. Stew these oyar a 4pw fire for 
five hours ; at the end of which time, add a lump 
of butter, rolled in flour, with a little Cayenne 
pepper and some salt. Then strain, and add a 
gill of cream. 4 



V 



( 1*4 ) 

OBS. 

This is a wholesome soap, and has the merit 
of being soon prepared* 



A Vegetable Soup, 
TAKE a quart of old green pease, and boil 
them in a gallon of soft water, with a small bundle 
of mint, sweet herbt, mace, cloves, and white 
pepper. «Boil till the pease are become quite 
soft. Then strain and pulp the pease through a 
coarse sieve. Put the soup into a stew-pan, with 
four heads of celery, the pulped pease, a small 
handful of spinage, one lettuce, two leeks cut 
small, a quart of young pease, and a little salt. 
Stew gently till only two quarts of the liquid re- 
main, and the celery has become quite tender. 
Add a good lump of butter, rolled in flour, about 
a quarter of an hour before the stew-pan is re* 
moved from the fire. 

OB 3. 

Thjs is a very mild soup, and may be con* 
sidered as an. assistant to Archaeus, when he baa 
any scouring work to perform* 



%• ••! 



{ IS5 ) 

To hash Beef or Muttok. 

TAKE a lump of butter rolled in flour. Put 
it into a stew-pan, and stir it till it become of a 
good brown colour. Then put as much gravy as 
^rill make sauce for the meat. Season with salt, 
pepper, shalot, or onion, and a little shred 
parsley. Cut the meat into thin pieces, and put 
it into the sauce ; iiid when sufficiently warmed, 
add some juice of lemon, and serve up hot. 

OBS. 

This dish is not a luxury, but a meal. 






/ 



An English Turtle. 

TAKE a calf's head with the skin on. Scald 
off the hair. Then boil it till the flesh will come 
from the bone, without breaking. Season with 
Cayenne pepper, mace, njitmeg, and salt. Cut 
deep holes into it, which fill with forced meat. 
So prepared, lay the head on a deep dish, with 
veal gravy, and a pint of Madeira wine. Then 
send it to the oveu to be well brownepL When it 






returns from the oven, let the gravy be thickened 
with butter rolled in flour. When served up, lay 
upon die dish, forcemeat balls, fried oysters, 
yolks of hard eggs, and sweet-breads cut in slices. 
(Garnish with lemon. Send up very hot. 

OB* . 

Ita&fflPid'hmAWfdr (jotiiiaindis of'tiie^ | 
firattate. 



A French Omelette. 

TAKE the yolks of eight eggs, and the whites 
of four, a little pepper, salt," a very little nutmeg, 
half a tea-cupful of cream. Beat all together, and 
add half an onion shred small, and a little parsley 
bailed* tender,- and cut smkll. ' The frying* pan 
being -..re&dyj Iwith sortie butter, put in the eggs 
and other mater iak > kee$ constantly moving tilt 
done enough A little gru ted h dm will mak^e the 
dish more savoury, if adcted befor^he ingredierris 
are put into the pan. 



■*Aw<M4l 



k 

'# 

t 



( 167 ) 

Mock Turtle. 

TAKE a calf's bead with the skin, and after ' 
scalding off the hair, and washing it clean, put it 
into cold water for four hours. Then cut it into 
pieces about the size of half a crown, and put it 
into a jar, with three pints of strong beef gravy, 
a gill of water, a few corns of white, pepper, a 
little mace, and two anchovies. Put the whole 
into an oven, and when half done, take it out, 
and put it with the liquor into a stew-pan : put 
in the meat of a lobster cut in pieces, with thirty 
oysters, a pint of Madeira, and two spoonfuls of' 
mushroom catchup. Serve up with forcemeat 
balls, hard eggs, and sliced lemon. 

OBS. 

This dish is- extracted from the archives of a 
wealthy corporation in the north of England, re- 
markable for their distributive justice towards the 
good things of a well-furnished table, It is a 
dangerous dish, and will soon bring a man to his 
crutches. By increasing the quantity of gravy, 

O 



a turtle soup is made ; in which case, the meat 
must be cut into smaller pieces. 



Tomata Sauce, 

TAKE tomatas when perfectly ripe. Put them 
into an earthen pot, and set them in an oven after 
the bread has been drawn. Let them continue 
there till they become perfectly soft; then se- 
parate the skins from the pulp> and mix with it t 
capsicum vinegar, a few cloves of garlic pounded, 
a little powdered ginger, and salt to the taste. 
Put the mixture into small wide-mouthed bottles ; 
cork them well, and keep them in a dry, cool 
ptece. Some white wine vinegar, with Cayenne 
pepper, may be used in the place of capsicum 
vinegar. 



OBS. 

This is a pleasant sauce either for hot 'or cold 
meat. But as the tomata apple is rather difficult 
to be obtained, Ignotus recommends the mock 
tomata as a good substitute for this most ex- 
cellent sauce. 



[ ( \l* >, 



To STEW VeGSTA&LES* IN.- THE SPANI&H, 

MANNER. 

TAKE four Spanish, or Portugal onions ; some 
celery, carrots, and turnips. Cut them into 
pieces, and boil them a little ; then put them into 
a stew-pan with some good gravy, and boil them 
down to the consistence of a jelly. Then put to 
them some strong gravy, called cullis, and give 
them a boil. This mixture piay be served up in 
a dish by itself, or put round any stewed meat. 
When covered with a crust, it makes a good 
vegetable pie. 



To Pot Tomatas* 

GATHER the tomatas when quite ripe and per- 
fectly dry. Scald them in water for the purpose 
of taking off the skin. Mash the pulp, and put 
it into a stew-pan over a very gentle fire. When 
cold, put the pulp into small stone pots, and 
after pressing it down, pour over the surface 

O % 



JibiMatHMfti- 



( iea ) 

some melted mutton suet. It will keep through 
. the winter* Tye a wet bladder over the pots, 
the more effectually to keep out the air. The 
smaller the pots the better, as the pulp spoils 
after being opened. Potted tomatas are used in 
soups, and for roast meat. 



Mock Turtle. 

TAKE a calfs head after the hair is scalded off, 
*nd boil it an hour. When cold, cut it into 
pieces, half an Inch in thickness, and an inch 

in length. Put them into a stew-pan with two 
quarts of good gravy. One neat's foot, and 
two or three ox palates cut into pieces. Salt to 
theUste; also some sweet marjoram, basil, truf- 
fles, morels, and fresh mushrooms, or mushroom 
powder. Let these and the meat stew together 
one hour, then put in a pint of Madeira, a spoon- 
ful of essence of anchovy, with Cayenne pepper 
to the taste. When the meat begins to look 
clear, and the gravy appears to.be strong, put in 



( 161 ). 

half a lemon, and thicken the soup with flour and 
butter. Fry forcemeat balls, and beat the yolks 
of three bard eggs in a mortar, with the yolk of 
an unboiled egg, and form into balls about the > 
size of a pigeon's egg. When dished up, add 
tbe eggs and forcemeat balls. By increasing the 
quantity of gravy, a turtle soup is made ; in i 
which case the meat must be* cut into smaller r 
pieces and tbe balls made less.. 

OSS. . 

Hpwever grateful this dish may be te> a mark > 
of a gouty tendency, he will find an advantage m) 
withstanding its allurements. It is a most exp- 
edient dish for the lovefs of good eating* . 



Mock Turtle Squiv. > 

TAKE a calf's head, after scalding off'.ti&h«wv, 
and bpji it till it become tender ; . wh$n cold ± . cut-, 
it into pieces of about a quarter of an inch square* . 
After this, make 9 good gravy from patt p£ : fu 
teg of veal, wi some lean bam,. together wkh> 
three &c foar onjpins, . four clones, stuck .iiuo.-jjthto 

Q3> 



( 162 ) 

onions, a few blades of mace, turnips, carrots,, 
and some sweet herbs. Put the veai and vege- 
tables into a proper pot, with some butter at the 
bottom. In this state let the meat brown gra- 
dually, to draw out the gravy, after which add 
four or five quarts of water. • Boil slowly, and 
after a proper time, strain, and when cold take 
off the fat. Put the soup, together with the 
head cut into pieces, into a stew-pan, adding to 
it a pint of Madeira, some shalots shred small, 
salt, and Cayenne pepper to the taste. Thicken 

with flour and butter, and add yolks of eggs, 
together with forcemeat balls. Serve up. 



Hare Soup. 

« 

TAKE a large old hare, and after washing it, 
cut it into pieces. Put these into a jug, with 
two onions, into which let four cloves be stuck, 
a few blades of mace, some pepper-corns, to- 
gether with sweet herbs. Add half a pint of port 
wine, and a quart of water. Cover the jug very 
close, and place k either in a pot of boiling water, 
or in an oven. When the meat has become 



( 163 ) 
sufficiently tender, strain the gravy, and take off 
the meat from the bones. After this, make a 
gravy in the following manner. 

Take four or five pounds of gravy beef, and 
after being cut into pieces, put it into a stew-pan 
with some lean ham, a few onions, with three or 
four cloves stuck into them, a few blades of mace, 
some pepper-corns, turnips, carrots, celery, and 
sweet herbs. Put some butter at the bottom of 
the pan, and cover up close. Set it over a slow 
fire that the gravy may be gradually drawn out, 
after which pour off the gravy, and let the meat 
brown quickly, taking care that it does not burn 
during this part of the process. After patting 
five quarts of water to the stewed meat,. boil 
slowly till reduced to three quarts, after which 
put to it the hare and its gravy. Strain, and 
when cold, take off the fat and add a pint of 
port wine, with Cayenne pepper to the taste. 
Boil for the space of an hour, with some vermi- 
celli. Thicken with Sour and butter. 



* i m> . „ ^ 



( 1«* ) 

To boil Rice. 

TAKE half a pound of rice ; wash it in salt 
and water ; then put it into two quarts of boiling 
water, and let it boil for the space of twenty mi- 
nutes ; then strain through a cullender, and sh^ke 
it into a dish ; but do not touch it with your 
fingers or a spoon. Serve the rice up in a dish 
by itself. This is meant for Patna rice ; Carolina., 
rice will require a pint of more water. Observe 
to let the rice remain in the cullender, after being 
boiled, near the fire to dry, and be careful not to 
shake it into the dish till it has become com- 
pletely so. Every grain ought to be in a state 
of separation. 

obs. . 

Curries with rice make the principal food o£ 
the people in India. 

ACurry Powder. 
TAKE t)f mustard seed, scorched, 

Ounces. 

and finely powdered - - - 14 

Coriander seed, in powder - - 4. 

Turmeric, ditto ------ 4£ 

Black pepper, ditto - - - - 3.: 



( 165 ) 

Onacet. 

Cayenne pepper, ditto - - - • 1 ♦ 
The lesser Cardamoms, ditto - 1 
Ginger, ditto ------ x 

Cinnamon, ditto ----- l 

Cloves, ditto - - - -' - - 

Mace, ditto ------- J 

Mix the powders well together, and put them into 
a wide-mouthed bottle for use. 



z 



x 

a 



t. 



m 



A dry Curry, or Curry without Gravy. 

A CHICKEN being cut into ^pieces, take a 
table spoonful of curry powder, and a tea-spoon- 
ful of turmeric in powder. • Put these two in- , 
gredients into a mortar with a little water, and a t . 
clove of garlic, and beat them well ; then rub 
part of the mixture over each piece of chicken, 
and throw in some salt, and a little more water. 
Put a large piece of butter into a stew-p^n, and 
hold it over the (ire till completely melted, taking 
care not to burn it. Tden slice a large onion, 
and put it, together with the chicken and the 
# curry, into the melted butter, and fry the meat 



«» •» 



( 1M>> ) 
till thoroughly done. Before dishing up, add a 
little lemon juice. 

OBS. 

A curry may be made with chicken, lobster,, 
prawns, pork, giblets, mutton, or any kind of 
meat. But chicken has the preference in India, 
where* this dish may be said to hie infigaiout. 
It may appear to those who a,ret not in tti£ habit; 
of eating curry, that the dish is too highly sea- 
soned, and too hot of pepper ; bnt it should be 
recoileoted, that it is meant; tq counteract the 
cpld quality of ths rice, of which several spoon- 
fuls are eat with a small proportion of the meat. 
Those who wish to moderate the heat of ttj$ 
spices, may eat salad with their curry, pr tjja 
vegetable Indiau dish called Brado Fogado. 



A wet Curry, or Curry with Gravy. 

CUT two chickens into pieces, as for a fricas- 
see, and fry. them gently in butter, strewing over 
them at the same time three table spoonfuls of 
curry powder. Have ready fried, six large onions 

2 






v. 



i 167 ) 

eat *matt, and take care to have them fried 
brown, wWhotlt burning. Pot the onions, with 
the chickens/ into a stewvpan, and add a pint of 
good beef or real gravy ; then cover the pan, 
and stew the whole gently till the meat become 
tender. Just -before it is dished up, add the 
juice of one lemon. 

OBS. 

Persons who have been in India are fond of 
>aU the preparations of . curry ; and even those 
who have not been iry that country, contract a 
liking for curries, after tasting them three or four 
times. The taste is certainly an acquired one, 
as at first tasting a curry, it does not convey to 
the palate an extraordinary sensation of pleasure. 
This is a very wholesome dish, especially in hot 
climates, where rice is much used. 



A Stew of Spinage, called Br ado Fogado. 

. PICK and wash some spinage very clean. Put 
it into a stew-pan, but do not put water to it. 
When enough, squeeze the liquor from it. Shred 



( 16S ) 

some onions, and fry them in butter. Put to the 
spinage a pint of shrimps cleared from the shells, 
a table spoonful of curry powder, a few spoonfuls 
of water, and a little salt. Stir well together witji 
the fried oniens, and let the whole stew a sufficient 
time, taking great care that it does not burn in 
the pan. 

OBS. 

This is a very cooling dish, and is usually 
serred up in India to counteract the heating 
quality of the curries. Ignotus thinks that in the 
absence of shrimps, the tail of a lobster may 
supply their place, when cut into narrow slips* 



A BAKED PlLfcAW. 

* 

HAVE ready two' quarts of veal or mutton 
broth. Boil two chickens lightly, as for a 
fricassee, and add the liquor they have been 
boiled in to the broth. Take out a 'pint of the 
liquor, and boil a pound of rice in the remainder, 
with a small piece of bacon or pickled, pork. 
When sufficiently done, take out the bacon or 



/ 



( 1G9 > 

pork, and stir into the rice a quarter of a pound 
^f butter. Boil* six or eight eggs hard, with as 
many onions, and when all things are ready, lay 
some of the rice at the bottom of the dish, and a 
little t of the liquor that Was reserved before the 
rice was boiled; then put a layer of chicken, 
sliced pork, eggs and onions, then more rice, 
and so on till the dish is filled. Cov^r with 
a paste made of flour and water, and put it into 
ihe oven for an hour. When taken out, take off 
the paste, and brown the dish over with a sala- 
mander before it is to be sent up to the table. 



Mock Turtle. 

TAKE three cow heels ready dressed. Cut 
them into pieces from the bone, and stew them 
tender in four pints of water, and the same quan- 
tity of veal gravy; add five anchovies, and a 
piece of butter, salt, Cayenne pepper, mace, 
cloves, lemon peel cut very sm^U, the green part 
of three leeks, some parsley, and lemon thyme. 
Stew^ these gently for two hours; then cut two 
pounds of leap veal into small pieces ; fry it alight 

P 



( 170 ) 

brown and add it to the above, with the juice of 
two lemons, a pint of Madeira, and some mush- 
room catchup. Stew two hours longer, and send 
up to table with forcemeat balls and hard eggs. 
The quantity of seasonings is here left to the 
judgment of the Cook. 

OBS. 

It is a matter of doubt whether mock turtle 
can be made without calf s head. Fiat Experi- 
mentum. s 



A Green Curry. 

TAKE brocoli, cabbage, or any other vege- 
table, and boil it in water till tender ; then throw 
out the water, and add either prawns, lobster, 
shrimps, beef, mutton, veal, or corned pork, with 
some fried onions, And a piece of butter. To 
these put a pint of water, with some curry 
powder. Stew all together, and when ready to 

serve up, add lemon juice to the taste, and 
dispose of the ingredients neatly on the dish, 

OBS. 

This is a very mild curry. 



< ni ) 

A cheap Curry Powder, 

CORIANDER seeds, half a pound. 
Turmeric, - - - three ounces. 
Black pepper, - - one wince and a half. 
Cayenne pepper,. - two ounces. 
Cardamoms, - - one ounce and a half* 

Mix and reduce to a powder, to be preserved in a 
bottle for use. 

OBS. 

This curry powder comes cheap, as it con- 
tains no expensive spices, the cardamoms ex- 
cepted. But it is inferior to the 7 one mentioned 
in page 164. 



A rich Cream Che£sb. 

TAKE any quantity of cream and put it into 
a wet cloth. Tye it up, and hang it in a coo 
place for seven or eight days. Then take i/ 
from the cloth and put it into a mould, (in ano- 
ther cloth) with a weight upon it for two or 
three days longer. Turn it twice a day, when it 
will be fit to use, 

a p* 



( 172 ) 

OB8. 

This is the richest cream cheese that can be 
made, and I am doubtful whether I H should pro- 
nounce it so wholesome as those cheeses that are 
made with milk and cream, and formed into a 
curd with rennet. Archaeus does not on all occa- 
sions approve of much butter, and I am inclined 
to be of his opinion. 



An Omelette, 

TAKE eight eggs, and beat them well for 
about five minutes, then add a little pepper and 
salt, a small quantity of chives, and parsley shred 
very small ; mix, and put about two ounces of 
butter in 'the pan, and when the butter has be- 
come hot, pour the ingredients into it, and move 
them well in the pan, until the omelette become 
a little brown. A salamander held over the sur- 
face will take off the raw appearance of the eggs \ 
or, the omelette may be folded over. . 

OBS. 

This is a very good omelette, of which the 
receipt was given to Ignotus by a French Cook* 






iHi — ^n 



C -W3. It 

A Gf blet Soup.. 

TAKE the desired quantity of strong beef 
gravy, and add to it a few slices of beef or 
veal fried in butter; Take a piece of butler,, 
rolled in flour, and with it fry some slieed. onioi* 
and thyme, and when made brown, add to it the 
soup. When sufficiently skewed, strain, and pufc 
to the soup two spoonfuls of catchup, some spoon- ' 
fuls of Madeira, and a little lemon juice, The 
giblets being separately stewed in a pint of water,, 
add their gravy to. the soup. 

OBS. 

This is a< sbup as full of gout as the richest 
turtle soup, and stands in the same predicament' 
in regard to its effects upon a gouty habit*. 
As turtle is the Regina Poluptati$ t this dish may 
be said to- be one of her' Maids of Honour. 



A Sauce for cold Partridge or Moor Gam*, 

POUND four anchovies, and two cloves of 
garlic, shalot, or onion, in a marble mortar,, 
with a little salt ; then add oil,, lemon juice, or, 

P3 



( 174- ) 
vinegar to the taste. Mince the meat, and put 
tbe sauce to it as wanted. 

OBS. 

This is* a very elegant sauce for the intended 
purpose, and may be used for cold meat of any 
kind. It is very wholesome for those who "in- 
dulge in light suppers. 



A BUTERHAM. 

TAKE any quantity of butter ; work into it 
tome made mustard, and having ready some 
thin slices of bread from a penny loaf, spread 
this composition upon them. Over each piece 
put a thin slice of Gloucester cheese, and upon 
,it spread a layer of buttered mustard, and over 
that put a thin slice of ham, or meat of any kind. 
Cover all with a slice, of bread buttered as at 
first. Then press the slices gently down, tQ make 
them adhere, and with a sharp knife, cut the 
bread neatly into mouthful^ 



* 



\ 



c% 




■* •* 



( 1W ) 

OBS. 

I have consulted Archaeus upon this occasion, 
and though he in general objects to eating be- 
tween meals, yet he thinks it but reasonable, 
that the present fashionable Ladies and Gentle* 
men, who sit down to dinner at seven o'clock, 
(an hour when working and useful people sit 
down to supper) should be indulged with a few 

mouthful* at two o'clock, in order to preserve 

< 

their charter of being Jruges consumere naii. 

On Egos, 
THE yolk of an egg, either eaten raw, or 
slightly boiled, is perjiaps the most salutary of 
all the animal substances presented to us by the 
band of Providence. It vis taken up into the 
body of the chick, and is the first food presented 
to it by Nature after its departure from the shell. 
It is a natural soap, and in alhjaundice cases, no 
food is equal to it. When the gall is either too 
weak, or, by any accidental means, is not per- 
mitted to flow in sufficient quantity into the 
duodenum, our food, which consists of watery 
and oily participles, cannot form an union so as 



( 1TO ) 

to become that soft and balsamic fluid called' .,- 

chyle. Sucb is the nature of the yolk of an egg, rl 

that it is capable of uniting water and oil inta 

an uniform substance, thereby making up for 

the difficiency of natural bile. Such an agent j 

in the hands of Archaeus, cannot but be pro- I 

ductive of much good. 



A Pease Soup without Meat. 

TAKE a quart of old pease. Put them into* 

two quarts of water, with a sprig or two of mint. 

Boil till soft, then strain, and pulp through a 

sieve, with a wooden spoon. Return the pulp into 

the water, to be used hereafter. - Take a pint of 
young pease, two or three cucumbers cut into 
thick square pieces, blanched lettuces cut into 
pieces about an inch in length, and a few onions 
in slices. Put these ingredients into a stew-pan, 
with two ounces of butter. Add pepper and salt 
to the taste. Stew till the pease become tender ; 
then throw them into the pan containing the 
pulped pease and water, and simmer over the 
fire. If not sufficiently green, add a little 
spinage juice. 



I 



( 177 ) 

OBS. 

This is a wholesome and pleasant soup. It is 
not expensive in its preparation ; but can only 
be made at a certain season in the year. , 



A Lobster Pie. 
TAKE the meat of two or three lobsters, and 
. cut it into pretty Jajge pieces. Having put some 
puff paste round the edge of a dish, put in a 
layer of lobster, a layer of oysters, with a good 
slice of butter, some bread crumbs, together 
with pepper and salt. Repeat these layers till 
the dish be full. Take the pea of the lobsters, 
and pound it with chopped oysters, crumbs of 
bread, and a little butter. Form into small balls, 
fry them, and lay them on the top of the pie. 
Boil the lobster shells in a little water and the 
oyster liquor, with some pepper and salt, to make 
gravy > Strain through a sieve, and pour it upon 
the pie. Then put on the crust and send it to 
the oven. 

[ OBS. 

Ionotus is very fond of this dish, and thinks it 
very wholesome; but Arcbseus contends that it 



..". .** ... 



( ni ) 

I m 

contains too many gouty particles. Where there 
is such a difference of opinion, it k best to leave 
the decision to the discretion of those who ace 
immediately concerned. 



A Lobster Pie, 

TAKE the meat of two boiled lobsters, and 
season it with pepper, salt, and' a little mace. 
Sheet a dish with puff-paste, and lay in. the lob- 
sters with a score of oysters, a gill of pieked 
shrimps, a few crumbs of bread, and six ounces 
of butter. Make a forcemeat of half a score of 
oysters, a little suet, two shred anchovies, and 
some crumbs of bread* Mix these together, with 
some pepper, salt, and the yolks of two eggs, 
and make them into a score of balls, to be put 
into the pie with the liquor of the oysters and 
half a pint of gravy. Put on the lid and send the 
pie to the oven, where it should remain for the 
space of three quarters of an hour.. 

0B&. 

This is a very wholesome and palatable dish ;, 
in some degree it differs from Lbe former. t 




V 



i 



( 179 ) 

A Beef Steak Pie. * 

TAKE rump steaks, and beat them well with a 
paste pin. Season them with pepper and salt, 
and after putting a paste round the dish, put in a 
little water, and lay in the steaks with a lump of 
butter on each. Put in sliced potatoes, and 
onions, if you please. Cover with a lid of paste, 
and send to the oven. A few shred oysters, and 

their liquor, would be an improvement without 
much additional expense. 

OBS. 

Ignotus gives this pie as a delicacy for those 
who have good stomachs, and little money. 
Dishes like this, and few in number, keep down 
heavy taxes and high rents. They are in unison 
with table beer and porter. 



Cucumber Vinegar. 

PARE and cut fifteen large cucumbers, and put 
them into a vessel with three pints of vinegar. 
Add three or four onions sliced, a few sbalots, a 



( 180 ) 

clove or two of gatlic, some salt, ground pepper, 
and a little Cayenne pepper. After standing four 
days, strain, and filter through paper. 

OBS. 

This is an elegant vinegar for the required 
purposes ; and, when used, is very wholesome. 



A Vegetable Soup With Meat. v 

TAKE cabbage lettuces, chervil, white beet 
leaves, celery, leeks, sorrel, and scraped car- 
rot, a. good handful of each. Chop these fine, 
and add cucumbers sliced, young pease, or as- 
paragus. Stew them gently in gfaVy, and a few 
ounces of butter, till they become quite tender ; 
then put to them the required quantity of gravy 
or good broth, made of shank of beef, or veal 
and mutton. Give a boil, and serve up hot. 

OBS. 

This is a very wholesome soup., and not ex- 
pensive. 






( 181 ) 



A mock Hare. / 

CUT out the inside of a sirloin of beef, and 
take from it all the fat. Then prepare a suffi- 
cient quantity of rich forcemeat, made as for 
hare, and put it within the beef, which must be 
tightly rolled, so as to. imitate the shape of a 
hare. Then roast it upon a hanging spit. Baste 
with port wine, and let the roasting be performed 
before a quick fire. Serve up witli good gravy 
in the dish, or rich melted butter. Currant jelly 
dissolved in port wine, for sauce. The cook 
hardly needs to be told, that the meat should be 
cut open, that the forcemeat may be made to lie 
in the centra of the beef. 



OBS. 



This is a correct imitation of hare ; and 
when game cannot be obtained, it is a substitute, 
hardly to be distinguished in taste from real hare. 



Savoury stewed Beef. 

CUT out the inside of a sirloin of beef, and pre- 
pare it exactly as for mock bare, in the fore 

Q 



I 



( 132 ) 

going receipt. When tightly rolled, fry it to a 
light brown, and aftet suffering the fat to drain 
from it, put it into a stew-p?n with a quart of 
good gravy, a glassful o€ red port, (or Madeira) 4 
mushrooms, a little catchup, anchovy liquor, or 
a score of oysters, if in season. 



OBS, 

This is a very palatable dish, but Ignotus 
is of opinion, that Archaeus will consider it at 
an importation of gout. 



Brisket of Beef, stewed simply* 

• 

TAKE about eight pounds of brisket of beef, 
and stew it till quite tender in as much water as 
will well cover the meat* When sufficiently ten- 
dered, take out the bones, and carefully skim off 
the fat. Take a pint of the liquor, put to it the 
third of a pint of red port wine, a little walnut, or 
mushroom catchup, and some salt. Tie up in a 
bit of muslin, some whole pepper aad mace, and 
stew all together for a stawrt time. Have reiatiy 
some carrot, and turnips boiled tender and cut 



( 1M ) 
ioto the form of dice ; strew them upon the beef, 
putting a few into the dish. Truffles and morels 
to be added* 

OBS. 

This is a most excellent disb, and a* it cone- 
tains particles of every- denomination, it. cannot, 
hurt be acceptable to Archaaui. 



BiuskEjT of Beep, stbwsb simply. 

STEW w two gallons of water, fo* t;wo or 
tktfQa h<mt& aver nighty about ten patradl of 
brisket of beef. Witea made sufiietently tender,, 
take out the bones, and carefully skim off the 
fat. Then boil in some of the liquor a few ear- 
rots, turnips, onions, celery, and white cabbage, 
till they become quite tender. Add these and 
some salt, to the beef and remainder of the broth, 
and stew all together till sufficiently done. 

OBS, 

This is a dish calculated for those who sit 
down to table witft an appetite that does not 
require to be pampered. 

Q2 



( 18* ) 

* 

An Indian Burdwan Stew. 

A half-grown fowl being ready boiled, let it be 
cut up and put into a stew-pan with three 
table spoonfuls ©f essence of anchovy, three 
table spoonfuls of Madeira wine, a little water, 
a lump of butter rolled in flour, some shred 
onion, and Cayenne pepper to the taste. Stew 
over a slow fire till the onions are become tender. 
When poured into the dish, take a fresh Lime, 
and squeeze a little of the juice into the stew. 
Cold boiled or roasted lamb, or kid, are equally 
good when dressed in this manner. , 

OBS. 

This dish is frequently introduced in the East 
Indies, when the appetite begins to flag, after 
eating . heartily of two courses ; and being often 
dressed by the master or mistress, in the presence 
of the company, it is generally paid great attention 
to. The French have a saying, " L'appetit 
yient en mangeant." Hamlet says, 

. As if increase of appetite had grown 
By what it feeds on. 

Sbaketp. 



*j 



...,J 



k *» > 

When the stew is dressed* <m a small chafing 
disb* in the room where the company dine,, 
it sends forth fuch a savoury smell', , that it 
reminds us of what Eve fek when the apple- 
was, presented to her, during her disturbed* 
dream* 



-The pleasant savoury smell 



So quicken'd appetite, that I,. methought„ 
Could not but taste it. 



Mittoni. 



When Chilly can be procured instead of the 
Cayenne peeper, and the mild Bombay onioris„ 
the Burdwan becomes a dish that few can' resist*. 
Bat being too rich a mesa to 'make a meal of, and* 
being only eat when the stomach is satiated,. 
Ignotus is of opinion that Archeeus will enter his, 

protest against the introduction of this easterns 
luxury.. 



s 



A» Enxhlish Buedw/n Si?ew^. 

TAKE a rabbit, of well fed fowl, and' after 
heiog cat up-, put it- into a stew-pan with some: 
slices of veal, and as much strong beef gravy 



k .-.-, 



(- we ) 

M will cover the meat. Roll a piece of batter in 
flour, and add some shred onion, anchovy liquor, 
Cayenne pepper, salt, and port wine, to the 
taste. Stew oyer a slow fire for the space of 
twenty minutes, shaking the pan two or three 
times. Cold veal, rabbit or fowl, will make a 
good Burd wan. 

OBS. 

ArchjEUs is always indulgent to those men 
whose change of climate and modes of living 
have created a second nature ; but he constantly 
shows his displeasure when be sees plain eaters 
suffering themselves to be led astray by dishes, 
that never were intended for them. 



A White Sauce for Boiled Carp and 

Tench. 

MELT a quarter of a pound of butter, and 
thicken with flour. Add three anchovies, pounded 
well in a mortar, four spoonfuls of veal broth, 
three spoonfuls of cream, and the same quantity 
of white wine. 



( 1*1 ) 

A Dutch Fish Sauce. 

TAKE two yolks of eggs, a quarter of a 
pouiid*of butter, two spoonfuls of vinegar, and a 
little nutmeg and mace. When held over the 
fire, stir only one way. By constantly moving, 
the sauce will become sufficiently thick without 
the addition of flour. 

OBS. 

This is a good economical sauce, and is much 
better than those strong sauces that overpower 
the natural flavour of the fish.. 



i - 



To stew Beet Root. 

BAKE red beet root in an wen till it become 
quite tender ; and when cold, scrape off the out- 
! side coat. Cut the root into slices, and dip them 
in vinegar. Put them into a stew-pan with a suf- 
ficient quantity of brown gravy; and, to enrich 
the colour, a few grains of powdered cochineal 
f may be added. The roots should be stewed till 
i tender, which may be in about half an hour ; 



> 



i 



^^Hi 



and just before being served up, two or three 
spoonfuls of cream may, or may not, be added. 

OBS. 

• * * 

This is a good looking dish,; and. very whftfep 
some. The expense i* trifling. The fine blogc} 
colour may be increased s without the cochineal* 
by a few spoonfuls of the juice, obtained hj} 

pounding two or three slices of the root in a 
marble mortar, with a little of the gravy. If 

thought too* sweat, a* few spootftdft ofr vinegar 

may be added* 



A Perigord Pie, 

TAKE half a dozen of partridges, and dispose 
of their leg* in the same manner as is done with 
chickens when intended to be bo i ltd; Season 
them weir with pepper, salt, a small quantity 
of cloves, and mace beaten fine. Take tWo 
pounds of lean veal, and one pound of fat 
bacon. Cut these into small bits, and put them 
into a stew-pan with half a pound of butter, 'to- 
gether with some shalots^ parsley, and thyme, 



aip^vo^m^ai w m p- i i •» ij i fH"in«i^<^w^pBW^^af 



( 189 ) 

all chopped small. Stew these till the meat ap- 
pear sufficiently tender. Then season in the 
same manner as was directed for the partridges. 
Drain, and pound the meat in a mortar till it is 

made perfectly smooth ; then mix the pulp with 
the liquor in which it had been stewed. The pie 
crust being raised, and ready to receive the 
partridges, put them in, with the above men- 
tioned forcemeat over them, and over that lay 
some thin slices of fat bacon. Cover the pie 
with a thick lid, and be sure to close it well at 
the sides to prevent the gravy from boiling out 
at the places where the joining is made ; which 
would occasion the partridges to eat dry. This 
sized pie will require three hours baking, but 
care must be taken not to put it into the oven till 
the fierce heat of the fire is gone off. A pound 
of fresh gathered truffles^ parboiled, will add con- 
siderably to the merits of the pie. Sometimes 
a clove of garlic is mixed with the forcemeat, but 
an English palate will not allow of its being more 
than just discernible. 



i mq ) 

This pie takes its name from a district in 
France, named Perigord, where the partridge* 
are remarkable large. When prepared by a 
good Cook, it will generally be well received. As 
to its merits, when viewed ift a medical light, it 
seems to belong to the class denominated " High* 
seasoned dishes,' 9 of which hints have been 
given in many places of this selection. An in- 
genious Cook will, perhaps, invent a better force- 
meat than what is here recommended. This 
pie is thought by the land, where " all are 
shopkeepers,'^ as worthy of being imported 
from the land, where " all are Cooks J' 



i 

TAKE the liver of the carp, when freed from 
the gall, three anchovies, a little thyme, some 
parsley, and one onion. Chop these small and 
put them into a quart of gravy, and a pint of red 
wine, with four spoonfuls of elder vinegar, and 
the blood of the carp. Boil a little, then add half 



( »1 ) 

* pound *f butter melted fctrfer a(Wy thick. In 
this stew the carp, haying m a gentle way been 
previously boiled in salt and water, with the ad* 
dition of a few spoonfuls of red wifce. 

OBS. 

When muddiness is observed, the eare is ef- 
fected by giving the fish a short boiling in salt 
and water. Archaeus is of opinion that he can , 
extract better materials for repairs from carp 
simply boiled, than he can when the fish has been 
made subject to much culinary heat, as in the 
process of stewing. To this opinion % Ignotus 
freely assents. In general, the carp is fried in 
dripping, after the manner recommended for 

tench, previous to its being put into the stew- 
pan. 



A French Apple Pudding* 

TAKE any number of apples; pare the*!, 
aod after cutting them into quarters, take out 
the cores* Then pot them into a dish intended 
for the table with some sugar, and bake them in 



( 192 ) 

a slow oven till they become a marmalade. Take 
half a pound of sweet almonds, blanched and 
pounded smooth, with an ounce of bitter ones. 
Put to them half a pint of cream, the yolks of two 
eggs, and the white of one. Sweeten to your 
taste and pour the mixture over the apples ; then 
send the dish to be baked in a gentle oven. 

OBS. 

This dish differs very little from the English 
apple-pie when custard has been put to k. 
Custard and apple-pie is the Shibboleth by which 
an Alderman may be known. 



The Head of a Holibut stewed. 

FILL a stew-pan nearly full with water, and put 
in a few anchovies, some marjoram and rosemary, 
two or three cloves, some whole pepper, arid 
scraped ginger. Stew these for the spac$ of an 
hour; then strain, and put in the head to be 
stewed till tender; when enough, thicken the 
gravy with Bour rolled in butter; add an anchovy 
or two, or a spoonful of its essence, and a little 



( I** ) 
fcutmeg. When ready to be served up, put in 
tome spoonfuls of white wine, together with some 
balk made in the following manner: Bone and 
skin a piece of the fish ; then chop it small, with 
a little thyme, marjoram, grated bread and nut- 
meg. Form these into balls with some melted 
butter arid cream, or the yolk of an egg. Put 
into the stew-pan, before the head is taken out, 
a large piece of the forcemeat, and salt to the 
taste. 

OBS. 

This dish is intended for Lent, but is good aft 



all seasons. 



A Fasting-Day's Dish. 

BOIL eggs very bard, and cut off the thick 
<ends. Fry them in a pan, and take care to keep 
them continually in motion. Then place them 
in the dish on the thick end, and pour over them 
some good fish or herb graVy. The gravy must 
be brown. Garnish with lemon and what was 
cut off from the ends. 

R 



*i . . 



feh 



I 19* I 

OBS. 

An occasional fasting-day that does not allow 
{he stomach to be quite empty, is highly salutary, 
and for which Archaeus is always thankful. 



Mutton Chops with Turnips. 
CUT the chops very thin, and take off the 
long ends of the bone. Stew them in good broth, 
with a bunch of parsley «and pot herbs. Stew- 
some turnips in gravy, and season with salt and 
pepper. When stewed sufficiently tender, put 
them through a coarse sieve, so that they may not 
appear too thick nor too thin. Upon them put 
*the<chpps in a regular manner, and serve up. 

OBS. 

As this dish contains nothing that can be 
deemed inflammatory, it may be eaten with per- ' 
feet safety.^ 



m ^ ml ^ m 



To DRESS HOLIBUT IN THE iVf ANNJBR. O* 

Scotch Collops. 
TAKE thin slices of holibut, and fry them with 

butter in the usual manner $ then boil in a little 



t J»* ) 

ttrater for half an hoar, four onidns^ some celery > 
fcrid thyme, and the bones of the fish. Strain*, 
and put in the fish with some browned butter ; 
fend stew for the space o£ half an hour. Season 
with pepper, salty and mace,, one spoonful of 
catchup, and the same quantity of lemon juice, 
with a little shred lemon peeL Thicken with> 
flour and. butter,. and serve up.. 

OBS. 

WkoEvERcan obtain this Lent dish> will have 
no reason to long after Scotch collops, or veal 
cutlets.. Ling is more proper for this purpose^, 
being of a firmer texture than Holibut. Sturgeon 
isr still better, when it can be got, being a fish 
lhat partakes much of the nature of veal, arid ad- 
mits of being- roasted as such. 



OysTba Sausages- 
Take a pound af the inside of a sirloin of 
beef, a pound of v beef suet, one pint of oysters 
just scalded, and the beards taken off. Chop 
tbese separately very fine, tben mix them to- 
i RS 



( H>« ) 
gether, and season with pepper, salt, and mace to 
the taste. Mix all together with the yolks of 
eggs and put the mass into an earthen pot, and 
tye it down close. When used, roll it into the. 
shape of sausages, and fry them in butter. 

OBS. 

This is a very savoury dish ; but as it is never 
eaten in quantity, it is not capable of doing any 
serious, or lasting mischief. 



Haddocks Stewed* 

TAKE six haddocks of a middling size and 

fresh caught. , Scrape off the skin, and cut off 

the heads, tails, fins, and belly flaps. Then put 

the fish into a pan, with a quart of water, a few 

pepper-corns, and one whole onion. Boil slowly 

for the space of half an hour, then strain off the 

liquor or stock. Dredge the fish with flour, and 

fry them in drip or butter. This done, put 

the fish into a stew-pan, with the stock, adding 

Cayenne pepper, catchup, and essence of an- 

chovy. Stew till the sauce become of sufficient 






Strength. Serve up in a deep dish, with tb6' 
surrounding sauce. 

OBS. 

This is a very good dish, and though suf- 
ficiently savoury, it is not capable of injuring the 
constitution by an importation of gouty particles. 
It is ( a favourite, dish north of Tweed. Ignotus 
is of opinion that it may be improved by the^ 
addition of some gravy, when in the act of 
stewing*. 



A stewed Cod's JIead an£> Shoulders.. 

BOIL the fish till nearly enough, then take 
it out, and put it into the stew-pan, with two 
bottles of strong ale, and one of small beer, an 
ounce of butter,, and an ounce of bruised pepper 
tied up in a bag, a few oysters, some good bee£ 
gravy, and two onions. Salt to the taste* 

OBS* 

This is a very good dish for Lent when the- 
beef gravy is left out : in place of which, a few 
spoonfuls of catchup may be substituted, and the 

R3 



( i»s ) 

butter i ncreased. Small haddocks may be dressed 
in this way. 



A Pease Soup Maigre. 

TAKE a pint of whole pease. Boil in as much 
water as will make a good tureen of soup, with 
one carrot, half a small Savoy cabbage, two beads 
of celery, some whole black pepper, a bundle of 
sweet herbs, two onions, and three anchovies, after 
being well washed. Boil these until the pease are 
become perfectly tender, when they should be 
rubbed through a cullender. Take two large 
handfuls of spinage, scald it, and beat it in a mar* 
ble mortar ; then rub it through a sieve. Take 
some lettuces, a little mint, four small green onions, 
or leeks, not sbred too small, and a little celery. 
Put these into a sauce-pan with three quarters of 
a pound of butter, and a good deal of flour. Let 
them boil ; then put the spinage and the herbs 
into the soup, and let them boil till sufficiently- 
incorporated. A few heads of asparagus will 
greatly improve the soup. 



-t=A 



( 1» > 



r 



OBS. 



« 

This is a wholesome and excellent maigre 
soup. Pease, when split, lose much of their fla- 
vour, a circumstance not generally known* 



A Sandwich*. 

TAKE butter and grated Cheshire cheese,, 
or Parmesan, of each equal quantities. Made 
mustard, about a fourth part of those conjoined 
ingredients. Beat them in a marble mortar into a 
uniform mass. Spread this mixture upen slices 
of white bread ; then put on slices of ham, or 
any kind of meat. Cover with another piece 
of bread, the same as at first. Cut neatly into> 
mouthfuls* 

OBS. 

This is a very neat sandwich, as it need not be 
touched with the fingers of the most delicate lady. 
Upon this principle, a variety of sandwiches may 
be formed by an ingenious housekeeper. We 
mistake when we suppose the " Sandwich" to be 

a modern invention. Suetonius in the life of Tib. 



( too > 

Claudius Caesar, mentions it under the name of 
Offula. Rogo vosy quis potest sine offulavkere ? 

Ignotus wishes the old name Offula, to be con- 
tinued, as he conceives it would be affixing a 
stigma upon the moderns, to be deemed the in- 
ventors of a practice that too often incommodes 
families, by obliging them to provide two dinners- 
where one was as much as their finances would* 
admit of. 



A Partridge Soup^- 

TAKE the whole breasts of four partridges,, anct 
after throwing away the fat and skins, put them* 
for the space of half an hour into cold water. 
Then cut the meat from the remaining parts, and 
pound it in a marble mortar. Take four pounds 
of veal, cut small, a slice ef lean ham, *the- above 

* 

pounded meat, together with all the bones, some 
pepper and salt, three table spoonfuls of white 
bread crumbs, a large onion,, in wjwch three 
tSloves have been stuck, and some scraped carrots 
And celery. Stew these ki & sufficient quantity of 
water, till all the goodness has been drawn from 



t 201 X 

the meat and vegetables. Then strain the soup 
through a hair sieve, and take off all the fat. 
Into this soup put the partridge breasts that have 
hitherto been preserved, and stew them for the 
space of half an hour, adding some white pepper, 
and plenty of pounded mace. Thicken with cream, 
and flour, and serve up in a tureen., 

V 

OBS % 

This receipt was brought over from Barbary 
by a British Officer ; and when the English cook 
things proper to add to it grouse or woodcock, 
then it may be tnuly said, that cookery has com- 
pleted the sum of erapulary indulgence. 



To stew Lampreys* 

THE* lampreys being skinned jand cleaned, 
boil them for a short time in salt and water ; then 
pour the water from tbero, and put them into a 
pan, with a bottle of port wine, and some sliced 
onions and cloves. Keep them for about an 
hour over a gentle stove fire. Then pour off ther 
wine, and put to it about half a pint ,of gravy^ 



t 202 ) 

as milch butter and flour as will make the 
s&uce 6f a proper thickness. Add lemon juice, if 
required. Put all together into, a stew-pan^ and 
warm up for the table* 

OBS. 

This is a good but expensive dish, on account 
of the wine. — As this kind of fish, in many par- 
ticulars, resembles the eel, it dresses very welL 
when stewed after the same manner ; in which 
case, a very considerable expense will be saved,, 
and the gourmand not much disappointed. The 
salt and water has a good effect in discharging the 
muddy taste that lampreys, eels, and tench, often* 
contract from their situation*. 



nnw^i.1 



An Omelette. 

TAKE seven eggs, and after beating them weH^. 
season with pepper and salt ;. then add a little* 
shalot cut as small as possible, and some sbrect 
parsley. Put into a frying pan a quarter of a 
pound of butter, and after it has come to boiling, 
ieat, throw in the eggs, and keep stirring, them. 



t ** ) 

«*jvsr a clear fire till the omelette has "become 
thick. After hgipg sufficiently browned on the 
under-side, double it lip and pat it upon a disk, 
.pouring pvpr it a little strong veal gravy • 



i 

CBS, 



The omelette is an extemporaneous dish that 
admits of great variation in its composition . Some 
v^ooks put to the eggs grated ham, chives,, onions, 
fresh mushrooms stewed a little, and shred fine, 
catchup, &c. with all of which the eggs incorpo- 
rate very well, and form a savoury dish that in 
.general is well received. 



Meringues, 

TAKE the whites of five eggs, and after beard- 
ing them to a strong froth, add a table-spoonful 
and a half of refined sugar, finely sifted. Put in 
the sugar very gently, beating the eggfc all the 
while, but be careful not to beat them too fast. 
Then having strewed some sugar npon writing- 
paper, drop the composition upon it, about the 
size of a pigeon's egg, and over it sift some fine 



*_*>.. ... . i ■ ». mi uh rsCT 



( 204 ) 

tugar. Immediately after this, send it to the 
oven, in which it should remain about twenty 
minutes. When cold, scoop out with a spoon 
what remains moist, and fill the cavity with any 
kind of sweetmeat ; then join two of the cakes 
together. Keep in a dry place till used. 

oss. 

This constitutes a very elegant sweetmeat. 
And as Archaeus, on all occasions, considers 
sugar as a very wholesome part of our diet, R 
will be unreasonable to condemn its use for 
children, especially when combined with acid 
fruits. 



To boil a Ham. 

SOAK the ham two days in milk and water; 
after which, let it gently boil upon the fire, or 
stove, for the space of eight hours, but with a 
moderate quantity of water. Add, during the 
boiling, the coarse parts of any kind of meat, and 
a few-carrots and onions. 



i 



{ 205 ) 

OBS. 

This most excellent method of boiling a ham 
does not essentially differ from what has been 
mentioned in a former article. The fresh .meat, 
and vegetables, have a powerful effect in ex- 
tracting the salt, and tendering the fibres of the 
ham, which, by the usual-method of boiling, are 
loft salt and hard. 



Oyster Sauce. 

PUT the required number of oysters into a 
stew-pan, with all their liquor, and a little gravy. 
Stew for the space of a few minutes, together 
with an onion sliced, some scraped horse-radish, 
and a few rorns of whole pepper. Then take 
out the oysters, and beard them ; put the beards 
into the stew-pan, with a little more gravy and 
water, and continue the stewing, in a gentle 
manner, over a slow fire, for about an hour. 
Strain the liquor, and thicken it with butter and 
a little flour. After this, put in the oysters, and 
warm them gently, taking care that , when put 

s 



\ 206 ) 

into the boat, there be a proper proportion be- 
tween the sauce and the oysters. 

obs. i 

By stewing the beards, the whole flavour of the j 

oyster is preserved, and no part is lost ; but care \ 

should be taken that the oysters do not become 
bard by over stewing. The admirers of beef 
steaks think that a little catchup improves this 

sauce. 



To boil Partridges." 



TRUSS theparttidges, as done for boiled fowls. 
Boil them in a proper quantity of water, and in 
about fifteen or twenty minutes they will be suf- 
ficiently done. When "ready to be served up, 
pour over them some rice, stewed in gravy, with 
salt and pepper ; the rice should stew in the gravy 
till it become quite thick, and to this a particular 
attention should be paid. 



CBS. 



Though this is a palatable dish, it is not an 
inflammatory one; and there is everjr reason to 



( 207 ) 

suppose that it will meet with the approbation * of 

Arcbaeus. 



White Vermicelli Soup. 

TAKE three quarts of clear veal stock, and two 
ounces of vermicelli ; boil together for the space 
of half an hour. Season with salt. Add the yolks 
of four eggs, and half a pint of cream, mixed 
well together. Simmer, for five minuses; and 
serve up in a tureen. Be careful not to overboil 
the vermicelli. 



Veal Collops, White. 

CUP very thin slices from a fillet of veal, and 
roll them up with seasoning made of pepper, salt, 
mace, nutmeg, and a little lemon peel. Then 
put the meat into a stew-pan, with a good piece 
of butter, and to prevent its setting to the pan, 
keep stirring it about till sufficiently done . Add 
cream mixed with the yolk of an egg, ana 1 thicken 

S2 



( 20* ) 

with a Jump of butter rolled in flour. Keep 
stirring till ready to be served up. 

.OBS. 

This is a neat supper dish, and does not take 
< up much time in the preparation. When in* 
. tended to be served up in form, egg balls, force- 
meat balls, and mushrooms will be required ; but 
as far as I can learn, Archaeus gives the preference 
to its present simple form. 



To stew Pease. • 

PUT a quart of pease into a stew-pan, and add 
to them two ounces of butter, a small onion sliced, 
a coss or cabbage-lettuce > cut in pieces, with 
a little salt. Stew the pease till half done, and 
thicken with flour and gravy. Then add a spoon- 
ful of the essence of ham, and season with 
Cayenne pepper. Stew till the pease become 
sufficiently tender, but be careful to keep the 
fire of a moderate heat, to prevent the pease 
from sticking to the pan. There can be no 
objection to the addition of a few .spoonfuls 



♦ j 



( 209 ) 
of good gravy at first. When pease are very 

■ 

old, they should have a boil in hard water previous 
to their being put into the stew-pan. 

CBS. 

Arch^us does not seem quite satisfied with 
this dish, as he conceives that it contains tod 

T 

many gouty particles, and consequently should 
be but sparingly used in cases where there is a 
suspicion of a latent hereditary gout. Rouse 
not a sleeping lion, says Prudence ; and the 
advice, though it costs nothing, should not be 
despised. " Hard words, and hanging, if your 
judge be Page," replies the Gourmand, when 
up to the throat with green fat and venison. 



Poivrade Sauce. 

BONE two anchovies, and after pounding 
them hi a marble mortar, add two table spoonfuls 
of salad oil, and a tea-spoonful of made mustard. 
When well mixed, add two shalots shred very 
fine, some shred parsley, and a proper quantity 
of vinegar. 

S3 



( *»o ) 

OBS. 

This is a very good sauce for cold meat; anj 
there is no reason to think it otherwise than as 
very wholesome, especially when the stomach 
is not in a state of good digestion. 



A Cheshire Sandwich. 

TAKE anchovies, Cheshire cheese, and butter, 
of each equal parts. Made mustard to the taste. 
Pound in a marble mortar till all the ingredients 
become well incorporated. Spread a knife point- 
ful of this upon slices of white bread, and be- 
tween two pieces put a thin slice of ham, or any 
kind of cold meat. Press together, and with a 
sharp knife divkie the sandwich into mouthfuls. 

OBS. 

Igwotus has, with some difficulty* obtained 
ArcheeusV permission to insert this sandwkh into 
his Culina. He, therefore, makes it a condition 
with those of the fair sex, who delight in sand* 



( 211 ) 

wiches, that they will use their interest in pre- 
venting the Minister from laying a tax upon 
them, there being some reason to fear that he 
means to take them into his budget, with a view 
to prevent, as much as possible, what he has 

# 

called an tf unnecessary waste of national pro- 
vision." Whatever morality there may be in 
such a determination, there is but- little policy 
in it, as it is well known that the Minister gets 
more by the wine consumed during these repasts^ 
than he possibly could obtain by a tax upon 
this modern luxury. 



Oyster Soup. 

TAKE a pound of skate, four flounders, add 
two middling sized eels* Cut them into pieces, 
and put them into a stew~pai>, with a sufficiency 
of water. Season with mace, an onion stuck 
with cloves, a head of celery, some sliced parsley, 
roots, pepper and salt, and a bunch of sweet 
herbs. After simmering about an hour and 



( 212 ) 

a half, strain, and put the liquor into a sauce- 
pan. Then take a quart of oysters, bearded, 
and beat them in a marble mortar with the 
yolks of six hard eggs. Season with pepper, 
salt, and grated nutmeg; and when the liquor 
boils, put tiie oysters and seasoning into it. 
When it becomes as thick as cream, take it 
from the fire, and serve it up in a tureen. 

OBS. 

This is a good restoratire soup. In the ab- 
sence of fish, a knuckle of veal may be used. 



Veal Broth. 

STEW a knuckle of veal in about a gallon of 
water, to which put two ounces of rice, or vermi- 
celli, a little salt, and a blade of mace. When 
the meat has become thoroughly boiled, and the 
liquor reduced to about one half, it may be sent 
up to table, with or without the meat. 



( 213 ) 

OBS. 

Ignotus seriously recommends this simple 
broth to be used by all persons who are in the 
habit of indulging in rich soups, and highly sea- 
goned dishes. It will be well received by Archaeus, 
as it will give him time to clear away the gouty 
particles that those gentlemen have long and 
abundantly thrown upon him. If the Gourmand 
did but know the labour that he daily imposes 
upon a faithful old servant, he would now and 
then give him a few hour's of relaxation. 



i _ 

Beef Steaks rolled. 

TAKE rump steaks, and beat them with a 
cleaver till they are made tender. Make force- 
meat with a pound of veal, beat smooth, in a 
marble mortar, the flesh of a fowl, half a pound 
of ham or gammon of bacon, fat and lean : the 
kidney fat of a loin of veal, and a sweet-bread 
minced fine ; som£ stewed truffles and morels cut 
small, two shred sbalots, some parsley, thyme, 
lemon peel, the yolks of four eggs, some grated 



( 21* ) 

nutmeg^ and half a pint of cream. Mix these 
together in a pan, and stir them over a slow 6 re 
for the space of a few minutes. Then put this 
combination of meal and herbs over the steaks, 
and roll them up. Skewer them tight, and put 
them into "a frying-pan, with drippings, where 
they should fry till they become of a nice brown 
colour, after which take them from the fat, and 
put them into a stew-pan with a pint of strong 
gravy, a few spoonfuls of red wine, two spoonfuls 
of catchup, and a few pickled mushrooms. Ste\r 
for about a quarter of an hour ; and serve them 
up hot. Garnish with lemon. 

OBS. 

This is a very savoury dish; and when we 
consider all its properties, it is sufficient for a 
meal without the assistance of any thing else, 
bread excepted. Porter is the beverage. It will 
Dot in general be so convenient, but the inside of 
a sirloin makes the best rolled stakes, being by far 
the roost tender part of the ox. 



( 215 ) 

Family Beef. * 

TAKE a brisket -of beef ; and after mixing 
half a pound of coarse, sugar, a quarter of an 
ounce of salt-petre, two ounces of bay salt, and 
a pound of common salt, rub the mixture well 
into the beef ; then put it into an earthen pan, 
and turn it every day. Let the meat remain in 
this pickle for the space of a fortnight, when it 
may be boiled and sent up to the table with 
savoys, or other greens. When cold, and .cut 
into slices, it eats well with poivrade sauce. 

OBS. 

Upon this dish nothing need be said,>further 
than that it is a wholesome family dish, and at- 
tended with little expense beyond the original 
purchase. Archaeus says, 'that this kind of 
cookery is worthy of imitation, as it would save 
him a great deal of trotlble in his examination of 
the chy liferous process. 

To stew a Duck. 
TO a pint of strong gravy, put two small 
- onions sliced, a little whole pepper, a bit of gin- 






Mfti 



\ 

( 216 ) 

ger, and a few leaves of thyme. Take a tame 
duck, lard, and half roast it ; then put it into a 
stew-pan with- the gravy, &c. and after stewing 
ten minutes, put in a quarter of a pint of red 
wine. When enough, take out the duck, skim 
off the fat, and thicken the gravy in the usual 
way. Lay the duck in the dish, pouring the 
sauce over it. Garnish with lemon. 

obs. 
Thw is a dish of French extraction. 



Sf 1NAGE AND CREAM. 

THE spinage being boiled and squeezed, put 
it into a stew-pan with a piece of butter, a 
little nutmeg, and salt. Keep stirring it aver the 
fire with a woodeu spoon ; then add as much 
cream as will make it of a proper thickneas T 
Send up garnished with fried bread. 



OBS. 



In this Way of dressing, spinage is very plea- 
sant; but perhaps it would be more wholesome 



( 217 ) 

if dressed only with butter and 9alt. To make it 
neat in appearance, all the strong fibres must be 
taken out, and the substapce beat with a wooden 
spoon, when in the pan. 



A Ragout of Oysters. , 

CHOP a few truffles, fresh mushrooms, shalots, 
p.nd parsley ; put these into a stew- pan with a 
piece of butter, some good gravy, some of the 
oyster liquor, and a little white wine. Reduce 
this sauce to a proper consistence. Then having 
ready three or four score of oysters, bearded, and 
gently parboiled, put them .to the sauce, to be 
warmed without boiling, 

OBS. 

As truffles and fresh mushrooms, cannot at all 
times be obtained, the oysters may be well 
dressed by making the sauce with a piece of 
butter rolled in flour, some strong gravy j a few 
spoonfuls of the oyster liquor, some shalot, and 
parsley. All kinds of ihell fish are wholesome 

T 



t 

i 



\ 



i 



i 



•j. 



n 



<*.. 



K 



k 



( 218 ) 

and restorative ; oysters in particular. The Ra- 
mans put a high value upon them ; and it appears 
from Apicius, De Re Coquinaria, that they had 
a method of transporting them to countries far 
removed from the sea. 



An Omelette, 

BEAT up eight eggs with a little cr^am, 

chopped parsley, shalots, green onions, or chives, 

pepper, and salt. Melt a piece of butter in a 

frying-pan, and when properly heated, pour in 

the above preparation. Stir till the cake is 

formed ; and when sufficiently browned, put it 

into a dish, and double it over, to cover the raw 

appearance of the eggs ; or the surface may be 

browned with a salamander, if intended to be sent 

up in a round dish. 

♦ 

OBS. 

This is an excellent omelette, as. it consumes 
but little time in the preparation. The omelette 
is a dish of great antiquity, and as a proof of its 
wholesome ness, it is a favourite in almost every 



i an ■ 



* 

1 



( 219 ) 

country in Europe. In the composition it admits 
of great variety, some specimens of which have 
been already given, and more may be found in a 
French book of Cookery by M. Massialot. 



Solid Sausages. 

-CUT large thin slices of veal. Season with 
pfepper, salt, chopped parsley, shalots, mush- 
rooms 1 scraped ham, and a little mace. Roll the 
veal into the form of sausages, and put the sea- . 

9 

soning in the inside ; then tie them up, and stew 
them slowly with some strong gravy \ and a glass 
of white wine. When enough, put the veal upon 
a dish, and pour the sauce over it, after being 
skimmed. 

- OBS* 

This is a very palatable dish, and of easy di- 
gestion. It is a meal for an economist who pre* 
fers table beer to port wine. 



To stew Lobsters, m*ld. 
WHEN the lobsters are boiled, pick the meat, 
clean from the shells. Take a pint of water, a 

T 2 



A 



( 220 ) 

\ — ' 

little mace, a little whole pepped, and the shells of 
the lobsters ; t^oil till all the goodness is drawn 
from the insides of the shells ; then strain, and 
put the liquor into. a stew-pan with the flesh of 
the lobsters, a piece of butter rolled in flour, two 
spoonfuls of white wine, a little juice of leqnon, 
and some bread crumbs. When sufficiently- 
stewed, serve up in a proper shaped disb. t 

OBS. 

As in this method of stewing a lobster, very 

s 

little seasoning is put in, I shall consider it as a 
dish, that, in a medical light, differs very little 
from the flesh of an undressed lobster. I do 
therefore recommend it as a restorative, under 
the restriction as to quantity. 



A DUNELM OF £*AB. 

BEAT the flesh and the inside of the fish in a 
marble mortar with some pepper, salt, nutmeg, 
and crumbs of bread ; then add some gravy, and 
a little wine. Put the whole into, a stfew*pan, 
tfith some butter rolled in flour; and when 



( *** ) 

thoroughly warmed! add a little vinegar, or lemon 
juice. 

OBS. 

I cannot say sq much for this dish as I did 
for the former one. , It seems to wear a gouty 
complexion. 



To stew Lobsters, savour*". 

WHEN the lobsters are sufficiently boiled, 
pick the meat from the shells, and put it into a 
-stew-pan with a little melted butter, and a table 
spoonful of essence of anchovy ; together with 
pepper, salt, and mace to the taste. When a 
hen lobster is used, 'the red matter, found in the 
body, must be dissolved in the melted butter, 

N 

which will considerably add to the beauty of the 
dish. It will almost be unnecessary to say, that 
in consideration of the previous boiling of the 
lobster, very little heat will be required when in 
the stew-pan. 

OBS.. 

» 

Ignotus has much satisfaction in saying, that 
4his dish will be found highly gratifying to the 

2 ' T 3 



«WM 



-*> 



( 2& ) 
palate, without doing an injury to the constitution. 
In cases where restoratives are required, a basin 
of milk will be found in unison with this dish 
when served up at supper. 



A Chicken Curry. 

» 

/* TAKE two chickens ; skin them, and cut them 

into pieces, as for a fricassee. Wash them in 

water; and stew them 'for the- space of five 

minutes in a quart of water. Strain off, and put 

the chickens into a dish. Take three large 

onions,, shred them fine, and fry them with two 

ounces of butter, together with the chickens, till 

they become of a nice brown colour. Then take 

of powdered ginger, and pepper, of each half a 

spoonful, a quarter of an ounce of powdered tur- 

meric, and some salt. Mix these ingredients, 

and strew them over the chickens whilst they are 
j 

in the stew-pan ; then pour in the liquor that 

was at first strained from them, and let the whole 

« 

m 

stew for the space of half an hour, when a quarter 
of a pint of cream, and the juice of two ledaons 



— ':j 



1, JW J^JV 



( 22S y 

shtmkl be added, taking care that the cream 


t 

and lemon juice be not permitted to curdte. 
Give a gentle boil, and serve up in the usual 

way., ' ■ • . 

» 

OBS. 

This, is a good curry, and is sure to be well 
received by those who have lived uncjer a burning 
sun ; but it cannot be made familiar to ttje inha- 
bitants of a cold country. 



Tomata Sauce. 

TAKE tomatas, when ripe, and bake them in 
an oven, till they become perfectly soft, then 
scoop them out with a tea-spoon, and rub the 
pulp through a sieve. To the pulp, put as much 
Chili vinegar, as will bring* it to a proper thick- 
ness, with salt to the taste, Add to each quart, 
half an ounce of garlic, and once ounce of shalot, 
both sliced very thin. Boil during the space of 
a quarter pf an hour, taking care %to skim the „ 
mixture very well. Then strain, and take out 
the garlic and shalot. After, standing till quite 



t „ 






cold, put the sauce into stone bottles, and let it 
stand a few days before it is corked up. If, 
wben tbe bottles are opened, tbe sauce should 
appear to be in a fermenting stale, put more salt 
to it, and boil it over again. If well prepared, 
this sauce should be of the thickness of rich cream, 
when poured out. 

OBS. 

This is a charming sauce for all kinds of meat, 
whether hot or cold. The torn at a must be raised 
in a hot-house, and afterwards it will grow in the 
open air, if placed against a wall in a warm situa- 
tion. Being a pleasant acid, it is much used by 
the Spaniards and Portuguese in their soups. 
In botanical language, it is the Lycopersican Escur 
lentum. Linn- Love-apple. 



A Cream Cheese, 

* MAKE a frame of old oak (for fir would give a 
taste) 8j inches long, 3 inches deep, 3 inches wide 
within, and open at top and bottom. Take a 
quart, or more, of cream from the vessel before 



n 



( 225 y 

it is stirred for churning, and placfe a piece of 
linen cloth in the frame, sufficiently larg£ to hang 
over the edge. This will act as a siphon to 
drain off the whey, as no pressure whatever must 
be used for that purpose. Then pour the cream 
into the frame or mould, and set it on a dish, a 
table, or on a few rushes. Change the cheese 
daily into a clean dry cloth, till it begin to 
adhere to it, when it will be in a proper state to 
be coated once a, day, with fresh leaves of the 
stinging nettle. After this, it will soon be ripe 
for use. 



OBS, 

r 



This kind of cheese can only be made in sum- 
mer, when there is a sufficient degree of heat to 
ripen it. Besides, the cream is the richest at that 
season. Some persons prefer this kind of cheese 
in itSr sour state, before it ha^ become perfectly 
ripe. Others again object to its richness when 
made of all cream, and recommend a mixture of 
cream and milk, made into a curd with rennet. 
The goodness of a cheese made in that manner, 
depends on a due proportion between the cream 



-S3 



( 226 )' 

aod the milk, or to speak more philosophically, 
between, the oily and cheesy matter. 



A Giblet Soup. 
TAKE a leg of beef, by which is meant that 
coarse part which is a little above and a little 
below the hock, a scrag of mutton, and the same 
of veal. Stew these with turnips, leeks, carrots, 
&c. for the space of four or five hours; then 
strain off, suppose three or four quarts, and put 
in three sets of goose giblets welt picked. Let- 
these stew till they become quite tender, puttiug 
in, an hour before they are done, a quart of 
young pease, a coss lettuce, and some seasoning, 
according to taste. To take off a certain bitter 
taste, it will be good cookery to scald the pease 
and lettuce before they are put into the soup. 
Strain, and serve up. 

OBS. 

This soup was communicated to Ignotus by 'a 
surviving friend of the celebrated Chace Price, 
Esq. who was supposed to keep the best table of 
bis time. 



. » j»' 



( 227 ) 

a succedaneum for green pease in 

Winter. 

TAKE the tops of very early sown pease, be- 
fore they come into blossom. Boil in salt and 
water for a few minutes to take off the bitterness^ 
Then chop them, and put them into the soup 
already prepared, with a bit of sugar. 

OBS. 

Of this succedaneum, Ignotus has not had 
any experience ; but as the receipt was commu- 
nicated by a culinary amateur, he has not a 
doubt of its answering the intended purpose. 
"Fiat Experimentum" 



x . Sausages without Skins. 

TAKE an equal quantity of any kind of meat 
and suet. When separately chopt very fine, 
beat them well in a mortar, with sage, nutmeg, 
pepper, and salt. Then, with the yolks of eggs, 
form into the shape of sausages, and let them be 
irj ed in the usual manner. 



#-*-4 



( «28 ) 



OBS. 



The advantages of this' preparation are,- that 
you may have sausages, when it may not be in , 
your power to procure skins. There is a great 
variety of sausage meat, so that the Cook need 
not be tied down tt) any rules in the composition. 

■ 



r 



To bake Fish. 
s TAKE two pounds of cod, thcsan^e quantity 
of salmon, boned and s.kiqviQd. Chop these! 
together with some shrimps shelled; till they are 
well mixed ; then add half a quarter of an ounce 
of mace and cloves, with a small quantity of- 
pepper, salt, Cayenne pepper, and half a pound 
of butter, melted without water. Mix all these 
ingredients together with two eggs, and a few 
bread crumbs to bind the mixture.' When put 
into a dish, brush it over with yofks of eggs, and 
some bread crumbs, having previously put a little 
butter into the dish. If the oven be not very hot, 
air hour will be required for baking. When 
shrimps cannot be had, a tail of a lobster will 
supply theinplace. 



i-^meass+atmm**- 



H 



{ 229 ) 



obs. 



This dish must not be considered as unwhole- 
some, notwithstanding its having been a good 
deal exposed to a' dry culinary heat* 



* • • Mutton Rumps. 

l¥OIL six rumps of mutton for the space of 

fifteen minutes ; then take them out, and after 

-cutting them into two pieces, put them into a 

-stew-pan, with half a pint of strong gravy, a gill 

of white wine, an onion stuck with a few cloves, 
a little salt and Cayenne pepper. Stew till 

tender ; when the rumps and onion may be taken 
out, and the gravy thickened with butter, rolled 
in flour 4 to which may be added, some browning, 
and the juice of half a lemon. Boil till the sauce 
become smooth, but take care that it be not 
too thfck. Then put in the rumps again? and 
after they have become sufficiently warm, serve 
-them up, and garnish tf ith beet-root and horse* 
•radish, 

U 



•w^' 



i ?39 ) 

OBS, 

T£AtOK8 wbo delight in fat meat, will lie 
pleased with a dish that affords them enough of 
it. But IgDotus is of opinioo, that the ramps 
iwill in general be more acceptable when eaten 
with stewed sorrel, or acidulated spinage* It is 
^remarkable, that in foroer tines, rumps, kidneys, 
.and trotters, were considered in ^all large famines 
perquisites of the Coot. 



j A*Mock Turtle Soot, 

TAKE a calf's .head with the skin on, anl 
-after scalding off the hair, cut the homy part 

into pieces of about an inch square. Wash anil 
-clean* them well, and put them into a stew-pan, 

with four quarts of broth made in the following 

manner.— 

Take six pounds of lean beef, two -calPs feet, 
.two pair of goose giblets, one onion, two<oarrot&$ 

a turnip, a shank of ham, a head jof -celery, some 

cloves, and whole pepper, -a bunch of sweet herbs^ 
~a little, lenaonjpeel, a few truffles, and eight quart* 



■*~£*> ' t £' \ 



**~ 



'A. 



t »i ' J; 

of water. Slew these till thebroth be reduced to 4 
four quarts, then straw ; and put in the head cut r 
into pieces, with* some marjoram,, thyme, and 
parsley chopped small r a. few cloves and mace, 
some Cayenne pepper r - a- fe%v green onions, a 
shalot chopped, a few fresh mushrooms, .or mush- 
room powder, and % ; phat*of Madeira. Stew gently 
till' reduced to two quarts** Then heat some broth, 
thickened with flour, and the yolks of two eggs, 
and keep stirring it till it nearly comes to boil. 
Add any quantity of this broth to the other soup, 
ami stew together for an hour. When taken 
from the fire, add some lemon or orange juice* 
and a few forcemeat balls, heated in water, but 
not fried. The quantity of the additional broth 
determines the strength of the soup, so that 
much is left to the taste and discretion of the 
Gook*., 

o-bs* 

Though this soup was much admired at the 
London Tavern, when Mr. Farley was the prin- 
cipal Cook, Ignotus is of opinion that it would be 
equally good if the ingredients were fewer in. 

U2 



( 232 ) 

number, and the mode of stewing made Ie& 
troublesome. Of this dish it may truly be said, 
" there is death in \he pot." 



Mock Tomata Sauce. 

ROAST any quantity of sharp-tasted apples 
in an oven, and when sufficiently done, let them 
be pulped in the usual manner. Put the pulp 
into a marble mortar, with as much turmeric as 
will give it the exact colour of tomata sauce, and 
as much Chili vinegar as will give it the same 
acid that the tomata has. When uniformly mixed, 
give a gentle boil in a tinned sauce-pan, having 
previously shred into each quart, a quarter of an 
ounce of garlic, an ounce of shalot, a tea-spoonful 
of Cayenne pepper, and a little salt. When cold, 
take out the garlic and shalot, and put the sauce 
into stone bottles. This sauce should be of the 
consistence of a thick syrup, which may be regu- 
lated by the Chili vinegar. 



( 233 ) 

OBS. 

The only difference between this and the ge- 
nuine tomata sauce, is the substituting the pulp of 
apple for the pulp of tomata, and giving the 
colouring by the means of turmeric ; a root that 
constitutes one of ,tbe ingredients of the curry 
powder. This* is a good imitation. 



A Shrimp Sandwich. 

PUT a layer of potted shrimps between two- 
pieces of white bread and butter, and after press- 
ing the sandwich gently down, cut it with a sharp 
knife neatly round the edges. It is usual, before 
closing in, to spread a little made mustard over 
the meat. 

OB*. 

Potted meats of every kind make elegant 
sandwiches. These, when cut into mouthfuls, 
look better than when sent up in large pieces, 
as in that reduced shape,, they may be taken up 

U3 



( 234 > 

with a fork, and conveyed to the mouth of the 
fair one, without soiling her fingers or gloves* 



To dress Spin age. 

PICK and wash the spinage well, and put 
it into a pan, with a little salt, and a few spoon* 
fuls of water, taking care to shake the pan often. 
When stewed tender, .take it out, and put it into 
a sieve to drain, and give it a squeeze. Return 
it into the stew-pan, after being well beat, and 
put to it some cream, with pepper, salt, and a 
piece of butter. Stew about a quarter of an hour, 
and stir it frequently. When served up, a few- 
poached eggs may, or may not be put upon it. 

OBS* 

This is a savoury, but a very wholesome dish, 
and, in general, will be better received than when 
spinage is sent up without any other addition than 
a bit of butter, and a little salt. It is gently laxa- 
tive, and consequently acts as one of Archseus's 



i& -^JU-^ 



( 235 ) 

assistants. Gourmands should reverence a dish: 
possessed of this quality ; but they will find it most 
wholesome, when simply dressed. 



Lamb Chops* 

CUT a neck of lamb neatly into chops, and rub 
them o,ver with egg yolk, then strew over them 
some bread crumbs, mixed with a little clove* 
mace, pepper, and salt. Fry to a nice brown, 
"and place the chops regularly round a dish, 
leaving an opening in the .middle, to be filled with 
stewed spinage, cucumber, or sorreh 

OBS. 

Spinage and sorrel are two of the most whole- 
some vegetables served up at table, and should 
never be allowed to retire without being abund- 
antly noticed. 



To stew Pease in a savoury Way. 

TAKE a quart of green pease, two cabbage- 
lettuces cut small, a large Portugal onion cut into 



( 236 J 

slices, or a small English one. Put these into at 
stew-pot, with half a pint of water, some salt, 
a little pepper, a little mace, and some grated 
nutmeg. Stew for a quarter of an hour, their 
put in a spoonful of catchup, and four ounces 
of butter rolled in flour. Shake the pan often, 
and when the pease are sufficiently tendered* 
serve them up. 

OBS. 

This method of stewing pease is evidently of 
French extraction ; and the cookery is not to be 
reproved. The dish is very grateful to aa 
English palate. With us, a small bit of sugar is 
thought to improve the taste of green pease, 
whether they are sent up in a simple or a com- 
pound state. This dish is rendered more savoury 
by the addition of some good gravy and' less 
butter ; but I do not recommend the annualizing 
of vegetables, tbey being; evidently intended to 
counteract the effects of too much animal food, 
for which this method of preparation disqualifies 
them. 



_i.j "^i H1--I 



( .237 ) 

Beef Steaks Rolled. 
, TAKE the steaks, and after, beating them to. 
iqake them tender, pyt upon them any quantity, 
of high-seasoned forcemeat, then roll them up, 
and secure their form by skewering. Fry them till, 
they become of a delicate brown, when they 
should be taken from the fat, in which they had 
been fried, and put into. a stew- p^n, with some 
good gravy, .a spoonful of red wine, and some 
catchup. When sufficiently stewed, serve thenK 
up with the gravy, and a few.pickled mushrooms. 

OBS. 

This dish may be considered as a meal in the 
service of families in middling life ; and as an ad- 
ditional dish, in opulent ones. The inside of a 
sirloin is the best piece of beef for this purpose* 
being extremely tender. 



BeefCollqps, 
TAKE steaks from the rump, and cut then 
into pieces in the form of Scotch collops, but a 



( Mft )> 

Kttle larger- Haying hacked and floured them, 
put the collops into a stew-pan, in which a >juf- 

Ucient quantity of butter, had been previously. 
melted. Fry. them quick for about two- minutes £ 
then put in a pint of gravy, . with a bit of but&r 
rolled ,in flour, and season with pepper and sain. 

* 

To these add some pickled cueumber sliced wry 
thin, a few capers, part of a pickled walnut 
sliced thin, and a little onion shred smalk. After 
remaining in> the stew-pan for the space ok 
five minutes, or a little longer,, the collops- 
may be dished up, and sent hot to the table*. 
Garnish with lemon, or beet-root pickled ife 
vinegar*. 

obs. * 

This, dish has- something ok the appearance? 
of a meal, and as it does not contain any 
very high seasoning, it may be eat in perfect: 
Bafety* . 



». 



TWEMBMNG BEtPw 

TAKE a brisket of .beef, and boil it gently 
r the space of five or six hours, or till mad* 



*ery 'tender. Season the water with safc, «oim 
att?spice, two onions, two turnips, and one car- 
rot. JPut a piece ef batter into a stew-pani 
and when melted put in two spoonfuls of flour, 
taking care to Iteep it stirring tHI it become 

ignite smooth. Then put in a quart of gravy j 

i 
<4t spoonful of catchup, some turnips and carrot^ 

^ut into small pieces. Stew till the roots are 

become tender, and season with pepper and 

•salt. Skim off the fat, and when the beef is 

j>ut into the dish pour the sauce over it. 

• 

OSS. 

When properly cooked, this dish is generally 
well received* being very tender, . A small romp 
^nay be dressed in the same manner. : 



'To stjew Tench. 



&FTER scaling aud cleaning the fish, rub' 
•them over with the yolk of egg, and dredge 
them with flour. Then put them into a part, 
*nd fry them in sweet drippings till they a*e 



( 8*0 ) 

< 

made brown. • Then take, them opt, and pert 
them on a sieve to drain* When cold, put 
the tench into a stew-pan, with a little, mace, 1 
Cayenne pepper, lemon-peel shred, a little 
scraped horse-radish, a pint of gravy, and the ' 
same quantity -of port wine. Stew gently for 
the space of half an hour ; then add a little 
melted butter, two spoonfuls jof walnut catchup, 
« little lemon juice, and salt to the taste* 



X)BS. 

"However pleasing to the palate tench may be 
when dressed in this manner, it is certainly not 
so wholesome as when* boiled, and sent up with 
plain melted butter made acid. This fish was 
formerly recommended as a sovereign -remedy in 
cases of jaundice ; and it is probable that the 
^golden colour of the fish, when in high season, 
induced the ignorant to suppose, that it was 
given by Providence as a signature to point 
out its medicinal quality. This doctrine of sig- 
natures subsisted for a considerable time among 
medical practitioners, and gave rise to the 
names of many .plants, from the resemblance of 



( 241 ) 

their leaves and roots to the form of many parts 
of the human body; such as lungwort, liverwort, 
spleen wortj pilewort, &c. In the present age 
of Quackery and Imposition, Ignotus will not be 
surprised to see a revival of this practice, as 
making part of the Occult Science of Medicine, 
in opposition to the rational practice of those 
men who combine honesty with their professional 
knowledge, 



To dry Haddocks* 

. \ 

TAKE haddocks, of two or. three pound* iti 
\veight, and after taking out the gills and eyes, 
gut them, and remove all the blood From the 
back bone. -Rub them dry and put a little salt 
in the bodies and eyes. Lay the fish on a 
board for one night) then hang them up iti 
the kitchen or any dry place. After hanging 
two or three days, the fish will be fit for 
use. When to be dressed, skin them and rub 
them over with egg yolk, and strew upon then! 
some bread crumbs ; then lay them before th* 



. -^..jC— Tyr iw— *w - - — 



.( 242 ) 

fire, and baste them till they become sufficiently 
brown. Serve up, either round or $plk open, 
with egg sauce. 



oss. 

r* Haddocks, preserved in this manner, wiB 

occasionally prove a great accQmmodation to fa- 
milies resident in the country, and whose dis- 
tance from a great town may prevent their being 

L/_. regularly supplied with fish. But independent 

of this conveniency, Archaeus coutends, that stu- 
dious and sedentary persons should indulge more 
freely in the use of fish, than those who pursue 
a more active life. The less solid nutriment 
supplied by fish, than by flesh, explains this 
opinion very rationally ; but he goes further, 
by saying, that the gluten of fish affords the 
greatest quantity of synovial particles, as without 
their regular and refreshing supply, the synovia 

\ in the joints of sedentary persons would become 

too thick ; and consequently those men would 
be in danger of becoming as immoveable as 
their arm chairs. Ignotus hopes that this Ar- 
chaean theory will be embraced by those medU 



C 243 y 

caland fcKymical lecturers, who delight in being 
continually whirled round* in the vortex of new 
opinions* For a further-illustration of this system, 
tfae curious reader is referred to the 127th page 
of this collection, hi which he will find a suffiw 
cient field for ingenuity to work upon? 



- Koumiss*. 

TAKE a pint of cream, -a pint of buttermilk, 
two quarts*of new-milk, and tw^o lumps of sugar. 
Mix together, and-- put them into a wooden 
vessel shaped like a <churn. Place this in a cor- 
ner* of a room-' where a fire is kept, and cover 
with a clotb. - On the second, or third day, the 
preparation^ will become what, in this country, 
is. called lapvured, when a degree of acidity will 
be^observed. It should then be beaten in with a 
strong staff, or the hand, in order that the mixture 
should become smooth. The beating in should 
be continued daily, much depending on that 
operation. As soon as it has become sufficiently 
thick and sour, it will be fit for use. - When used 

X2 



( 244 ) 

as a medicine! no less than a quart, should be 
drank daily during the term of six months ; but 
independent of that idea, it makes a pleasant 
and wholesome supper when mixed with sugar, 
strawberries, preserved fruits, or crumbs of bread. 
When new made, a little of the old should be re* 
tained as a ferment. 

OBS* 

■ 

The ravages made in this country by con- 
sumption, and the hitherto unavailing course of 
medicines in stopping the progress of that bane- 
ful disease, will justify an appeal from an en- 
lightened nation, to one where, there is scarce a 
single ray of science. Dr. Grieve, who resided 
many years in Russia, has published, in the Phi- 
losophical Transactions of Edinburgh, an account' 
of the Koumiss, which in Tartary is held in high 
estimation as a cure for consumptive complaints, 
though in Russia Proper, it is as little known as 
in Great Britain. 

Uuder Dr. Grieve' s respectable authority, Ig- 
iiotus most earnestly recommends a trial of the 
Koumiss in hectic, and incipient consumption. 
One powerful argument is attached to this acidu- 



z*m> 



f 245 ) 

lous cream ; it is easily obtained, and when ob~ 
tained, tbe expense is small. Among the Tartars, 
mares 9 milk is used, but Dr. Grieve has found, 
that any kind of milk may be used in the prepara- 
tion of Koumiss, provided the milk be not conta- 
minated by bad hay or turnips. When used as 
diet, the whey should be let off by a spigot at the 
bottom of the vessel, before beating in. 



Welsh Beef. 
TAKE a round of beef, and rub into it tvro 

■ 

ounces of powdered salt-petre. After standing 
six hours, . season well wkh pepper, salt, and a 
little, all-spice, pounded. - Let the beef stand six- 
teen days in the brine j turning it frequently in 
that time.. After -washing it well with the pickle, 
put it into an earthen vessel, and bake it in an 
oven^wrth'a good deal of beef suet over and under 
v it; Cover in with a coarse paste, and suffer it to 
remain six or eight hours in the oven. When suffi-, 
cieotly done, pourthe^gravy from the t)eef r and 
Jet it stand till cold. It. will keep two months, . 
sind all the time retain its goodness. 

X3 



■h^Mi^i 



( 246 > 

OBS. 

All large families when resident in the country, 
will find this a most accommodating dish. It is 
ready at a moment's warning to go upon actual 
service. It is a little army of itself, when flanked 
by mustard and vinegar. ' 



To stew red Cabbage. 

SHRED the cabbage very small, and mix with 
it some slices of onion, pepper, and salt. Stew 
over a slow fire with some gravy. When become 
sufficiently tender, thicken it with butter rolled 
in flour, a few minutes before serving up. A 
few spoonfuls of good vinegar are usually added. 
When white cabbage is used, it becomes., mora 
savoury by being fried previous to the stewing. 



DBS. 



This is a very wholesome sauce for. any kind' 
of plain meat* 






( 24T ) v 

\ 

! To preserve Eggs fob eating in the Shell. / 

■ - » 

BOIL any number of fresh eggs for the space * \ 

of one minute and a half; and when wanted for 
use, after any length of time, let them be reboiled : 

for the same space of time as at first. 

OBS. 

« 

It may appear singular that eggs, after the se- 
cond boiling, should not be, more affected, as to 
hardness, than after the first boiling; and the 
j reason seems to be, that the heat given by the 
second boiling only warms the contents of the egg 
to. nearly the same degree of heat that was pro- 
duced at the end of the first boiling. Ignotus 
cannot at present, ascertain many particulars that 
are embraced by this extraordinary experiment, 
but that he may be enabled to be more decided, 
he has ordered one dozen of eggs to be boiled 
for the exact space of one minute and a halfl 

■ 

Those he proposes to dispose of in the following 

manner : Three to be reboiled after three months^ 

1 three after six months, three after nine months, 

and the remaining three after twelve months. 



t 
\ 



] 



( 24$ )' 

This will .ascertain, with tolerable exactness, the 
time that eggs may be preserved in a sweet and 
palatable state for eating in the shell at breakfast. 
But as the white suffers a degree of coagulation, , 
it . is evident that . eggs, so prepared, cannot be 
vised for culinary purposes, where the white and 
yolk are required to be beat together. However, 
where the yolk only is wanted, as for salads, eggs 
thus prepared answer the. purpose of fresh eggs* 
To bring this extraordinary experiment to a de- 
cided point, Ignotusbegs leave to repeat a saying % 
of Lord Bacon, to such of his readers as consider, 
experiment to be the foundation of culinary, 
knowledge.-**" Fiat Experimentum." 



To roast Larks. 
WHEN the larks are trussed, put a sage or vinar- 
leaf over their breasts ; then put them on a long : 
skewer, and between every lark put a thin- piece, 
of bacon. Tie, the skewer to a spit, and roast 
the birds before a clear brisk, fire. . Baste, with 
butter, and on removing, the leaves, strew over 

V- 

them some crumbs of bread, mixed with a little 



«S — T*r- i ^« 



"I^^HVM^HIiV^^M^i^HWHPPPI 



( 249 ) 

flour. When neatly roasted, put the larks round 
a dish, with bread crumbs, fried, in butter, io 
t^e middle ; or they may be put upon, the bread 
crumbs. 

OBS.. 

This is the French way of roasting larks. Care 
should be taken to make them; appear as large 
as possible; perhaps it would be an improvement,, 
to fill the birds with forcemeat made of beef, with 
suet and seasoning. To this Archseus can have 
no objection, as such a trifling dish is beneath the 
notice of the thorough-bred gourmands 



* To D-RESS A. Co€K PhEA&ANT. 

STUFF a pheasant cock with the lean part of 
a sirloin of beef cut in. pieces of the size of dice, 
and season with pepper and salt. Roast the 
pheasant in the usual way. 

CBS. 

The gravy coming from the beef diffuses it* 
self through the flesh of the pheasant, thereby 
rendering it more juicy and tender. Veal being 






r* 



( 250 ) 

a white meat, may be preferable to beef; " This- 
bird is usually larded, but many persons object* 
to the taste of bacon, after being exposed to a 
dry culinary beak 



•I 



A Calf's Head, dressed Turtle -fashion 

TAKE five pounds of a knuckle -of veal, .three.*' 
pounds of lean beef, eight of ten onions previously- 
fried in half a pound of butter. Pat those into a,, 
proper vessel with a •sufficient quantity of water, 
to form a strong broth, adding, at the same time,, 
a* spoonful of whole pepper, three anchovies, 
some lemon peel, some cloves and mace, and 
some salt. Take a calf's head with the skip on, 
and the hair scalded ofl^ and boil it separately 
in water; when enough, cut it into pieces, 
mahout half .an inch square, and put it into the \ 
veal gravy after being strained from the meat.. 
At this time, put in some sweet herbs, and a 
pint of Madeira. Give a short boil, and put in 
some hard eggs and forcemeat balls. Then serve 
up as hot as possible. 



A- J*M JA, * 



X 2£i ) 



O^BS. 



This is a very good dish, and if properly 
"made, will not discredit the cook. If Archaeus 
foe in good humour, he will throw off from it the 
gouty particles that it contains; but if the dish 
*t>e too often repeated, the Gourmand must not 
• presume upon -that kindness on the part of 
the Anima Medica. The best policy that he can 
observe towards keeping Archaeus in good ha- 
mour, is to. be in the habit of ordering his cook 
-to prepare for him a good oiaigre soup on the 
following day. 



A Spanish Olio. 
TAKE veaJ, beef, and fruition, of each half a 
pound, eight onions, two cloves of garlic, a few 
pepper-corns, a little mace, two or three cloves, 
six turnips, one parsnip, six carrots, some cab- 
bage, endive, celery, pumpkin, and sorrel. Have 
ready a fowl, or a partridge skinned. Put all 
into a stew-pot, with a sufficient quantity of 
water, and let the simmering continue for five or 
six hours. Salt to the taste. 



MM 



1 



( 252 ) 

OBS. 

.With an exception to the garlic, this dish 
does not materially differ from the stews of our 
own country. It is perfectly wholesome. The 
pumpkin grows freely with us, and in soups is 
greatly preferable to the turnip. 



To dress a Ca^s Pluck. 

EOIL the lights and a small part of the liver 
cf a calf. Roast the heart, after stuffing it with 
sweet herbs, parsley, suet, bread crumbs, pepper, 
salt, nutmeg, and lemon peel, all mixed up with 
the yelk of an egg* 

When the lights and liver are boiled, mince 
them very small, and put them into a sauce-pan, 
with a little gravy and a piece of butter rolled in 
flour. Season with pepper arid salt, and add a 
little lemon juice, or vinegar. Fry the other 
part of the liver, together with some slices of 
bacon. When to be served up, lay the mince- 
meat at the bottom, the heart in the middle, and 
the fried liver and bacon upon the meat. 



.. i 



( ?« ) 

OBS. 

This is a good dish for families where economy 

is required. The plentiful store of pulmonary 

particles 'contained in it, cannot fail of being 

. highly acceptable to Archaeus, when consumptive 

persons are the objects of his attention ; but Ig- 

• 
jiotus is inclined to think, that the dish would be 

more acceptable to him, if it contained fewer in- 
flammatory ingredients. He therefore recom- 
mends the lights to he simply stewed in milk and 
water, with a little butter and salt ; and when so 
dressed, he is confident that they would soon 
wrest the palm from the hands of some men who 
have amassed considerable fortunes from the cre- 
dulity of mankind. Whatever may be the success 
of his theory, he is confident that it rests upon as 
good a foundation as Dr. Godbold's Balsam, or 
I)r. Beddoes's Airy Nothing, to which the Doctor 
has endeavoured to give " a local habitation and 
a name.' 1 

To boil a Ham. 
RUB the ham qver with salt, and put it to soak 
in water for the space of four days, rubbing it 

Y 



t 254 ) 

afresh, and changing the water every day. Then 
for two d|ys more soak it in skimmed milk) after 
which simmer it over a slow fire for eighteen 
hours, part one day, and part the next day. 

OB5. 

In this manner of boiling a ham, there is much 
good sense, as it most effectually tenders the 
aieat, and gives it a rich and delicate taste. 



A Brqwn Colouring for Made Dishes. 

TAKE four ounces of fine sugar, and after 
beating it small, put it into a frying-pari with an 

■ 

ounce of butter. Set the pan over a clear fire> 
and keep stirring the mixture till it become 
frothy, when the sugar will be dissolved. Then 
hold the pan a little higher over the fire, and 
when the sugar and butter become of a good 
brown colour, pour in a little red wine, and stir 
them Well together. Then add more wine, 
stirring the mixture all the time. Put in the 
rind of a lemon, a little salt, three spoonfuls of 
mushroom catchup, two or three blades of mace, 



V 



( 2i5 y 

mx. cloves, fout sbalots, and half an ^ounee of 
Jamaica pepper. Boil slowly for the space of 
ten minutes, then pour the whole into a basin, 
and When cold, bottle it for use, haying first 
skimmed it well. 



OB9. 

This seems to be an useful article, being well 
calculated for housekeepers who are resident in 
the country*. 



A Mild Curry. 

Cliy cjiicken, rabbit, veal, mutton, or fish,, 
as for a fricassee. Put any of these into a stew- 
pan, with as much' water as will cover the meat, 
together with a few silver-skinned onions sliced, 
and some salt. During the time of stewing, skim 
the surface, and when the chicken, or other meat,, 
has become tender, put'to the liquor, now be- 
come the gravy, two table-spoonfuls of curry 
powder, with lemon juice, or vinegar, to the 

Y2 



] 



( 2*6 ) 
taste. The firtt in preference. Then boil a 
few minutes longer, when the disl? may be served 
up. 

OBS. 

This favourite dish of the Indies is invariably 
served up with rice, to the boiling of which the 
utmost attention must be paid, in order that it 
may appear delicately white, and every grain in 
a state of separation. These effects are produced 
by putting the rice into water, and letting it 
gently simmer over a slow fire. As the rice be- 
gins to swell, add a little cold water, and take 
care that it be kept constantly covered with 
water. When sufficiently tender, strain the rice 
from the water, and serve it up, to be used with 
the. curry. The above is a very mild curry ; but 
if wished to be of a hotter kind, then add Cayenne 
pepper to the taste. 



A Veal Fjucandeav. 

— » 

UNDER the udder part of a leg of veal, there 
is a large piece of meat. From this cut off all 



it. ^. 



i m ) 

the fat and skin. Then lard it with fat bacon,. 

and give it a -boil for the space of two minutes, 

* - 

mh/ 9 in order to harden the bacon. Stew the* 
meat gently in some broth, y^ith roots and spices,, 
until it become quite tender. The broth being: 
well skimmed from grease, let it be reduced so» 
as to form a glaze over the fricandeau, which* 
must be sent up to the table upon sorrel, stewed- 
in the following manner. Take five or six hand-- 
fills of sorrel, and after washing it well, put it- 
into a stew-pan with a bit of butter. Let it stew' 
for the space of ten minutes, after which, rub > 
it through a fine hair sieve, and put it into at 
small stew-pan with a very little broth, some 
pepper and salt, and a small lump of sugar. Give- 
it a gentle boil, and after pouring, it into a dish,, 

place the fricandeau upon it* 

t • • • « 

OBS. . 

As this dish is a corrector af puirescency,it r 
is much in favour with Archaeus. Should the' 
sorrel lose much of its acidity during the stewing,, 
it may be regained by the addition of a little^ 
Jemon juice, or vinegar. - 

Y3- 



\ 



( 258 ) 

A green Pease Soup, wif h Rice. 
PUT two quarts of old pease into a stew-pan, 
with a few spoonfuls of veal broth, a piece 
of butter, two or three sliced onions, one 
carrot, a turnip, and a small head of celery. 
Stew those together for the space of fifteen 
minutes, taking care that the ingredients do 
not burn. Then add, by degrees, the required 
quantity of good veal broth till all the vegetables 
have become so tender as to be capable of being 
rubbed through a tammy, or a coarse napkin. 
Season to the taste, and add to the soup so strained, 
about two tea-cupfuls of the juice of spinage ; 
but the greening is better performed by a large 
handful of spinage, separately boiled, and rubbed 
through, along with the pease and other ingre- 
dients. The soup being so far prepared, add to 
it some spoonfuls of rice boiled very tender ; then 
take 6ve or six yolks of eggs, and after beating 
them with about half a pint of cream, strain 
through a sieve to keep out a disagreeable part of 

the whites. Mix this with the soup, and keep 
stirring it for about half* a minute, without ever 
permitting it to boil, as in that case it would im- 
mediately curdle. % - 



*j^. 



( 2S9 ) 

OBS. 

This is a roost excellent soup when prepared 
by a judicious cook ; and being out of the com- 
mon way, Ignotus is proud of its introduction. 
Should it be thought too rich, the egg and cream 
may be omitted* 



A Dish, named Common Sense. 

PROFESSIONAL men have an undoubted 
right to their hours of relaxation, for as jEsop 
observes, " If the bow be kept continually bent, 
" it will in time lose its elasticity." But the 
misfortune is, the employment of these hours is 
not always left to those who have the best right to 
dispose of them, but are expected -to be at the 
disposal of others who are but imperfectly quali- 
fied to form a judgment upon them. Professional 
men who employ their leisure hours in fiddling, 
cards, and tea-drinking, usually pass their days 
without censure; but others who wish to mix 
utility with their amusements, are sure to bring 
down a swarm of undiscerning critics. Of this, 



1 



examples are innumerable. Bishop Hoadley 
wrote a play. . Dean Swift one day wrote a Ser- 

« 

mon, and on the following day amused himself 
with J* Advice to Servants.' 9 Erasmus wrote a 
Treatise in praise of "Folly." And a great 
Chancellor of England amused himself with Dis- 
sertations that had no connexion with his legal 
department. Dr. Martin Lister, Physician to 
Queen Anne, wrote a Commentary on Apicius's 
" Art' of .Copkery.** bishop Warburtpn, after 
writing his " Divine Legation of .Moses," amused 
himself with a Commentary on the Plays of 
Shakespeare ; and Dr. Tucker, Dean of Glou- • 
cester, on the days that he could be spared from : 
his sacred duty, employed himself in writing 
useful political tracts, that had but a slender con- 
nexion with his profession. Bishop Watson ^gave* 
up his leisure hours to Chemistry, Agriculture, . 
and Planting, retaining at the same time the du- 
ties of his function with becoming dignity.^-- 
Bishop Horsley's leisure hours continue to en- 
lighten the Mathematical world, and Dr. Payley's 
Anatomical and Physiological Dissertations have 
added , strength and vigour to his Theological 



a 



i 261 ) 

studies. Let me not leave out Mr. Mason, who 
wrote Sermons, Plays, Songs, Rebusses, Conun- 
drums, and Political Pamphlets. Most, if not 
all, of these men have had the amusing part of 
their conduct arraigned ; but as liberality of sen- 
timent cannot every where be found, the best 

way is to take the world as it goes ; and if we 
cannot obtaiii approbation from the bulk of 
mankind, let us be content with what the wise 
few bestow upon us. 

obs. / 

Upon the merits of this apologetical dish, 
Ignotus asked the opinion of his friend Archaeus ; 
but received for answer, " that it did not come 
" within his province." He therefore ventures 
to recommend it as a wholesome dish, to all per- 
sons who are troubled with crudities and in- 
digestion. 



V 



\ 

t 



\ 
V 



] 



( w y 



INALE. 



bi order to have a table regularly served, two 
things , are materially to be attended to ; of 
which, one belongs to the cook, and the other ' 
to ihe housekeeper. The province of the cook, 

is to dress the meat according to the modern 

costume, and afterwards to dish it up in an { 

\ 
elegant manner. The housekeeper's province, ] 

among other things, is to make out the bill of 

fare, and afterwards to direct the dishes to be 

00 placed upon the table, as to accord with 

each other, thereby forming; a picture that, by 

pleasing the eye> may wi^et the appetite. ^Pjl 

4 here I beg leave to observe, that Van HeJmonf t 

I 

confined Arch&us to the superintendance of^the 

internal functions of the body;; but he did not ' 

i 

know, that when he took up his /residence in the ' 



*.Sce page 1ST. 



( 263 ) 

eye, he could view external objects. That dis- 
covery was reserved for me, and 1 1 confidently 
assert that at all great tables, Arch^ds sur- 
, even before the chaplain has 
!. For a proof of this, I appeal 
mgh-bred Gourmands in every 
ized world. 

appose the dishes to be served 
2, it belongs to the housekeeper 
>uiler has placed them properly 
and here a quick eye to measure 

correct distributive taste, is re^ 
naking the table to represent a 
:tufe. Dr. King, io his poem 

Cookery," in imitation of Ho- 
try, and addressed to Dr. Martin 
i humorous manner, shown the 
□ding to this display. It const i- 
srthy of cultivation, that I mean 
; to the consideration of the So- 



(264 ) 

cicty of Incorporated Artists, under the title of 
" Crapulary Painting." i 

Ingenious lister, were a picture drawn. 

With Cynthia's face, but with a neck like Brawn ; 

With wings of Turkey, and with feet of Calf, 

Though drawn by Kneller, it would make you laugh. 

Such is (good Sir) the figure of a feast, 

fly some rich farmer's wife and sister drest: 

Which were it not for plenty and for steam. 

Might be resembled to a sick man's dream. 

Where all ideas huddling run so fast, 

That syllabubs come first, and soups the. last. 

KINO ON COOKE RT. 

After returning thanks to the Ladies, and to 
some professional persons, for the liberality of 
their communications, I must not forget my olv 
ligations to Archxus, who, in the kindest man- 
ner, has expressed his sentiments of almost every 
dish contained in this collection. 

IGNOTUS. 



4 



» 



ADDRESS- 

Honi. Soit. Qui. Mai. y. Pease. 

TO the Ladies who have done Ignotus the 

■ * 

honour to peruse what, with the best inten- 
tion possible, has been the amusement of hi* 
leisure hours. 



After providing the necessary materials to be 

« ' * 

employed in the management of a family, Ignotus 
would feel himself culpable if he did not endea- 
vour to promote their application, by a few words 
of advice. And as the season advances when 
new year's gifts are in general acceptable, he 
begs leave to offer the following to such Ladies as 
may' not be too proud to accept of a little good 
edyice from a stranger. - 

The character given of a virtuous woman by 

the mother of King Lemuel!, is perhaps the most 

perfect picture that ever iVas drawn 5 and though 

the age, in which it was- given, is widely different 

' from that in which we live, yet every attempt t« 

2 



( zee ) 

come near to x it will Imply reward the fai* 
imitatrix. 

" Tlie price of a virtuous woman is far above 
" rubies. The heart of her husband doth safely 
" trust in her, so that he shall have no need of 
" spoil. She will do him good and not evil all 
" the days of her life. She seeketh wool and 
" flax, and worketh willingly with her hands. 
" She is like the merchants 1 ships » she briogeth . 
" her food from afar. She riseth also while it is 
" J et n ig^t, and giveth meat to hex household^ 
" and a portion to her maiden* She considereth 
^" a field, and buyeth it : with the fruit of her 
" hands she planteth a vineyard* She girdeth 
" ber bins with strength, and strengthened] ber 
u arms. She perceivetb that her merchandise is 
"* " good ; her candle goeth not out by night. 
" She layeth ber hands to the spindle, and her 
" hands boll the distaff. She stretcheth ont her 
" hand to the poor ; yea, she reacheth forth 
•* her hands to the needy. She is not afr&id of 
" the snow for her household; for all her hoqseu 
u hold are clothed With scarlet. She maketh 
11 herself coverings of tapestry; her clothing is 
" silk and purple. Her huftband is known in the 




( 267 ) 

i 

" gates, w\\en he §ittetl* 4Unong the elders of 
** the land- She maketb fine linen, and selleth 
4€ it ; .and deliveretb girdles i|nto the merchant. 
* * Strength and honour are her clothing % and she 
€t shall rejoice in time to come. She openeth 
" her mouth with wisdom ; and in her tongue 
< c is the law of kindness* She looketh well to die 
€€ ways of her household, andeateth not the bread 
€€ of idleness. Her children arise up, and call 
" her blessed; her husband, also, and he praiseth 

" her.'* 

* i . 

**■ What a description is here ! Can. it be at- 
tended to without emotion ? or have modern 
manners so warped our minds, that the sim* 
plicity of ancient- virtue, instead of appealing 
an object of veneration, should look romantic 
and ridiculous. Say., in -good earnest, were 
the Women of those days the less estimable, or 
the less attractive, that they did not. waste 

4 

their lives in a round of dissipation and folly, 
but employed themselves in works of ingenuity 
and: usefulness. The women of the first rank, 
a? we are informed by the oldest and best 
Authors, took delight in the occupation of good 



( 268 ) 

housewifery in all its extent. After looking at 
the sublime standard of female excellence given 
by the mother of Lemuel, I am aware that any 
thing I am able to offer on this subject will appear 
vapid ; but since it roust be so, let the mortifying 
sentiment be felt by all, as a just satire on the 
declension of the age we live in. In truth, when 
we speak of good housewifery now a days, we 
must submit to speak in a lower key. * What do 
families suffer daily from the incapacity, or in- 
attention of those mistresses that leave all to 
housekeepers and other servants! How many 
estates might have been saved from ruin by a 
wiser conduct ! I have no hesitation in saying, 
that no woman ought to think it beneath her to 
pay an attention to economy. In every station, 
an economist is a respectable character. To see thjit 
time which should be laid out in examining the ac- 
counts, regulating the operations, and -watching 
over the interests of perhaps a numerous family — 
to see it lost, worse than lost, in visiting and amuse- 
ments, is a circumstance truly lamentable. Coun- 
try gentlemen of moderate fortunes, mercbaatr, 
and. tradesmen, who marry women uninstrucfced in 
cookery and the management of a family, are 



p$)jectg of singular compassion ; if indeed thej 
wpre, deceived into an opinion, that the womep 
tb$y have chosen J for . their partners for life 
were taught Ibis necessary piooe of knowledge. 
But very seldom, as matters jure managed at 
present; have they such deception to plead for 
their choice. Is it possible that they can be 
ignorant m what manner young ladies are edu- 
cated at our boarding-schools f and do* they 
not see in what manner they are too frequently 
attended to -when their education is finished ? 
The great object is to ^ bring the, young lady 
" out," to show the accomplishments obtained at 
the boarding-school, or, in .other words, to exhibit 
her as a sliow., 1 most willingly acknowledge, 
that seme young ladies sa unfortunately brought 
upv have, from theip own good-sense, become cx> 
ceUent managers of their families-; but is so great 
a chance, man affair of su$h consequence, to be 
veJied^ otv f Mothers have much to answer for ; 
and if they but knew the deep and silent i$~ 
jriroacbes often bestowed upon them* even by 
thw most dutiful Daughters, they would pass 
-% fauoentable censure upon their own condypfc 



/ 
/ 



I Mil 



\i 



( 270 ) 

» 

But to quit this unpleasant subject, let me now 

descend to my culinary system. ' ' *t 

r 
W 

. u In the present age, the order and figure of> 
table is pretty well understood as fcr a* regards 
splendour and parade. Bat would it not be worth 
while to improve upon the art, by learniug to 
connect frugality with elegance; to produce a 
genteel, or however a good appeamace, from 
things of less expense ? However difficult, I am 
sore it is laudable, and deserves to be attempted. 
This may be depended upon, that moat men are 
highly pleased to observe such economical ta- 
lents in a young woman ; and those talents in 
one that is married can scarce ever fail to animate 
the application, excite the generosity, and 
.heighten the confidence of a husband. The 
contrary discourages and disgusts beyond Ex- 
pression i I mean in a discreet and prudent bto- 
band. A young woman who has turned 1 her 
thoughts to those matters in her father's dMHtee, 
or in any other, where Providence may have dis- 
posed of her, and who has been accustomod*to 
acquit herself well in any lesser department cftta-^ 
mitted tQ her care, will afterwards, when her 



( 2TI ) 
province is enlarged, slide into the duties of it 
with readiness and pleasure. ' Tbe particulars 
have already passed through her mind. The 
dffierent scenes as they rise, will not disconcert 
her. Being acquainted with leading rules, and 
having bad opportunities of applying them, or 
seeing them applied, her own good sense will 
dictate the rest, and render that easy and agree- 
able, which, to a fine lady, would - appear 
strange, perplexing, and irksome." 

A celebrated writer, well acquainted with the 
-commercial part of the world, when consulted 
■regarding tbe choice of a wife for the son of a 
arealtby merchant, made this reply : 

- " This bear always in mind, that if she is not 

-■« frugal, if she is not what is called a good 

'* manager, if she does not prize herself on her 

■'* knowledge of family-affairs, and laying out her 

".money to tbe most advantage ; let her be erer 

.** so sweetly tempered, gracefully made, or 

- >■* elegantly accomplished, she is no wife for a 

■ : " man in trade. All these, otherwise amiable 

"talents, will but openjust so many roads to 



( 272 ) 

u ruin. Itetnembcr your mother, who w^s so ex- 
"'quisitely verged in this art, that her dress, her 
a table, and every other particular, appeared 
" rather splendid than otherwise. Good house* 
*' wifery was the foundation of all." 

To conclude. Domestic management b$in$ 
the basis of female education, the superstructure 
consisting of music, dancing, drawing* historical 
reading, and polite behaviour., 'must be con- 
sidered as secondary objects* , and made conform* 
able to the station of life in which Jfrpvulence 
bas placed the fair one. If in an exalted statipffe 
aud consequently under an obligation to appear 
much in public, let her be a complete mistress, pf 
the amusements that she will there find j for b* 
assured, that to play well, is, Hke a good coun- . 
tenance, a letter of recommendation ; while, 00 
the contrary, ta display a want of judgment, will 
generally be considered, hy s,stcaoger* a* a .$<«* 
render of understanding* . 

tGNOTUSk 



CONTENTS. 



,» ~* 



*<. 



- J • 



A 

Fag* 

Anchovy Sauce • 55 

Anchovy Toast 127 

Apple Pudding,a French .; 191 

Address to Ladies,... 264» 

* • * • - ... 

B 

Butter, to melt « IS 

"Beef Stock, for Soups .......... ....'... 14 

Beef Steak, to dress 26 

^eefSteak, to broil '. 40 

BeefSteak, to fry 41 

* - ' 

Beef Steak dressed hastily 42 

Butter, burnt ..... r .... 57 

Beef Steaks, to stew ^ 67 

BeefSteaks, to stew , 68 

[ Beef Steaks, to stew with Cucumbers 73 

Broth, Scotch Barley „ 86 

Broth, Sheep's Head 87 

j Beef Steak, to dress on the Moors 92 

Beef, to pot > 105 

Beef, to pot \\i 

Bread for Toast and Butter .. Hi 

i 

I 



ySf' * •- .- —*~r- »■ 



' . ~ " * —m. ~ 



£74 ewRNTt. 

Bjeef, I* hash .»«••• •*♦.«.........»••••. ... 155 

Brado Fogado, or Indian stewrd Spinage 167 

Bnterham, a Sandwich so called ...*.....*.*........,.. 174 

Beef, stewed Savoury , I St 

Beef, a brisket of„ slewed savoury «.....*. ....... 182 

.Beef, a brisk e| of, stewed simply .•...•...»••• 1#F 

BufbSran, an Indian stew •« ........ 18* 

Bard wan, an English, stew «••••*••.•••.... 185- 

Beet Boot, to stew *. . 187 

Broth, Veal . 2Ifc 

BeefSteaks, toxoil . 21S 

Beef, family ..,.. ......,.......,....* 215- 

Beef Steaks, to roll M< ...*»~ 237- 

Beef, Collopsof ♦ *. ,„ 237 

Beef, trembling , ,...,. 233 

Beef, Welsh L M .....~ 24-5 

Browning, for made dishes ....... 254: 

Cookery, the history of . M 5 

Cavier, a mock •.»...•. ..»•.••.••....•? *3-k 

CalPs head, to ragou '. v .... - 34 • 

Cod,, to stew .. m W 37 

Cod, to cabeach ."• 4-3 

Carp and Tench, , tojrtew • ♦ $5 * 

Calfs Head, to roast ••.. 69. . 

Consumption, mess for a ...................... 7t . 

Cheese,, Stilton* to make 73- 



* » 



»_~ .iS" 



Page 

Cod, dried, to dress •.. ................... 74 

Chickens, Friars' % .. „.. 75 

Cheese, a Cream .. .' %........ 73 

Curov, a fried v..,>*.........r... £1 

'Cold Meat, a Sauce for . 84 

Chicken, a DuneJm df ....... 85 

Carp and Tench, toitew ........v...* $4 

CalPs Head, to -dress ..*.....*»»..„. /:„ 90 

Calf's Foot, with^retiB Pease .>...........• 08 

Crab, to butter i..o. *.»»>*..*.».. ••..*.••••• 104 

-Cheese, a Cream .....~~............ 103 

Chops, Matton ........ 108 

Curds ami Whey, Galtina . *> .. 109 

Cod^ to stew ..v »v.. ,....»* ** . 114 

Curry Powder, to make * v »..-• 164 

Curry, a Dry. M »., ? . fMf . ...... ...... 161 

Curry, a Wet .♦........,* . tM 

Cttfry, a tureen ...... .^ ...» 170 

C«rry Powder, to make a cheap one .«.*... 171 

Cheese, aCream *.,...,.. 171 

Carp, to stew,. » ♦ -.»..; 19fr 

Chops, Mutton, with To mips ......../>. 194 

Cod's Head and.Shoulders to stew »•• 197 

•CratvaDuaelra of.. , ,v. * ••••- 226 

Carry, a Chicken *& 

Cheese, a rich Cream v../.. •.... 224 

t*ops, Lamb, to dresJ *•„•••••*..»••»* .»•»•• &33 



£76 CONTENTS. 

Cabbage, Red, to stew.... . .....*... 246 

• * 

Calf's Head, Turtle fashion ♦..,.*..,.. 2*0 

Calf's Pluck, to dress * •*. 252 

Curry, a Mild ...% «.« •••..« ?$5 

« • • • 

Common Sense, a dish so named . 256 

D 

• » • • 

Duck, to stew with Cabbage , ... 49 

Duck, to stew with Green Pease ,.•••• » 98 

Duck, to stew with Pease ............. .*...*....... 117 

Duck, to stew ..., , .. 216 j 

E - | 

i 
Eggs, Savoury ••••••••••••••#••••'••••«•«#•••*»••.•••«••*• il | 

Eggs, their Medicinal .Virtues •« ,••».. ITS • 

Eggs, to Preserve for Eating in the Shell ...».,.,»•• 247 ■ 

i 

- - • F ! 

1 

I 

Fowl, to stew in Rice .r ........... ........... • 55 

Fricandeau, a .................;...♦.....*.,.......#....... 0* A 

Fish, to crimp .......................... Ill : 

Fowl, to roast with Chestnuts .v.... 124 

Fish Sauce, a Dutch ........**.♦ *....... 187 ' 

Fasting day, a dish for .................. «....*••.. 193 • 

Fish; to bake »••••.'«. .•*»••••»..•••.•**,...*•••••..• 22* 

Fricandeau of Veal ..«•**»....»•-»•».»•••.«.•«•*».*.•••.» 250 

Finale ......4..........«.r.. ...... .,...,......, M . *.«*..•.. 5112 * 

G 

Gravy, a Strong, called Collis .•,•»».,»•«« ..mh.ov" 15 



•sa 8 ***..*^.^ *rrzZT3!M!k- .^." ' ii 



V 



A a 



CQHTENTS. 277 

Page 

Gravy Soaps^ afrBrowa Stock for .,... 16 

Gravy for White Dishes * 20 

Gravy, a Brown . 21 ^ 

Granada, to make ;......... 24 

Goose, a Savoury Sauce for .....»......; . 77 

Gout, a Dialogue concerning it .* 151 

H 

Ham, to boil . 25 

Haggis, to make '. * 88 

Hare, to stew , 118 . 

Hare, aMock .\ , IBl 

Holit>ut, the Head of, to stew ,..., „..;. 192 

"Halibut, to dress as Scotch Collops 194 

Haddocks, to stew ;. 190 

■ Ham, to boil .7 ; 204 

— * 
Haddocks, to dry 241 

Ham, to boil, 253 

> ■ 

I 

Jelly, a Savoury 114 . 

K 

- ««• - . . 

Koumiss, to make *..". •.....««... 243 

4 „ 

lampreys, to stew ; 201 

X»obsters, to stew Mild .,,.,„..,...., 21$ 



4" 



# 



276 COHTBfTI. 



**> '. 



Lobsters, to atew Savoury «•».•»•**.••••» '22} 

Larks, to roast - » „ Mi . 249 

M 

Marrow Bones, toVoil 18 

Macaroni »» »..,.....•.... 19 

Macaroni *•....• 27 

Mutton, stewed ...... , ................ 48 

. Mutton, a Loin, to stew 52 

Macaroni ^.. ...... ........... 56 

Macaroni .*...... 70 

Mutton, a Dunelm of'..... . 100 

Mutton, to hash .,♦...... 155 

Mutton Chops with Turnips 194 

Meringues, to make 203 

^tuttott Rumps, to dress ~. 229 

M 



Omelette, a Savoury one - 30 

Omelette • 7$ 

Omelette, an Oyster L ... 7J) 

Omelette ..» 84 

Omelette 126 

Omelette, a French ....*. 4 .' 156 

Omelette • ».*..... 172 

Oyster Sausages, to make ,.,•«,•,,,,,,,..»,. „f«f **».*. 195 



r 



* 



t|e4tfttvift*' &79 

Pago 

Omelette * * 202 - 

(Oysters, to ragou .,.,...,,., , ,...;.... 217- 

Omelette .., ,,,.♦-. 2I« 

Olio, aSpanisli. ...... M «...w. ..*..•••••• ^1 

t 

P 
Pickle, far meat , ^ 32 

■ 

Pie, a Macaroni .... <• * ^3 

Partridge, Cold, a Sauce for .*..... 77 

Peases Green, to stew with Calf VFeet 9* 

Pease, Green, to stew with Lettuce ♦ 99 

Pease, te-stew .......... .... ..•.«..... 107 

Pease, te stew H$ 

Partridges, to stew . * 1*9' 

PiBaw, a baked ....*.... \ < -•• *68 

^Pie, a Lobster, ** 1?* 

Pie, a Lobster ..c. 1?8 

Pie, a Beef Steak ,.;.. 179 

Perigord Pie, te make 18& 

Pease-Soup, Maigre ,.. ^ 198 

Partridges, to boil x.. 20£ 

Peaseytastew ... ...;.... * 209 

Pease, Green, a Soccedaneum for 227 

Pease, to stew Savoury .,, 235' 

Pheasant, to roast 214 

* A a 2 



i 



260 •4VTEWT9. 

R 

Rice, to boil i. t , $o 

Rice, to boil , 104. 

Rumps, Mutton, to dress , 22j> 

S 

Sauces, a Colouring for ,«. 4 (J 

Soup, aGiblet 17 , 

Soup, a Maigre 20 

Soup, a Green Pease. . ........... 22 '■ 

Soup, a. Hare .- 23 

Sauce, sour, for. Fish 24 

Soup, a Gravy .7. .*. 2$ 

Soup, a Gravy « , 2£ 

Soup, a White . 3i 

Soup, a Vegetable, with Meat r ./. 34 

Soup,^ Vegetable, with Meat ..*....>, 3$ 

Sauce, a Fish .' ,. 3ft 

Soup, a cheap .., .<»..«>... 3ft \ 

Sauce, for boiled Carp, Tench,- or Turkey ..,..*«..• $9 

Sauce, a Russian ••......««•..« 4-7 9 

Sausages, Oyster • »«..;• ,-.^ 48 | 

Sauce, Fish 60 

Soup, a Partridge S0 

Soup, a Macaroni ... •*«. *•<••• •• SI 

Sauce, Anchovy, .......................... $£ \ 



_i 



t 



contents; .. 2&| 

, > ' Page 

Soup, a Carrot .; Jtei^;.... 57< 

Souchy, Water ;..........., ; .*%...... 58 

Soup, a Simple i ,_... 59 

Sauce, a Fish ...". *.. ....*.♦ 59 

Soup, a Carrot ........ ,.,... 60 

Soup, a Maigre 61 

Soup, a Hare .............. •••••• • 32 

Soup, a Mock Turtle « ,.... 64 

Sauce, Fish, to keep the Year 65 

Soup, a Hare ..„.,. ...i.. ...'...,., 72 

Sauce, Fish, to keep the Year ....„ 75 

Sauce, a Savoury, for Goose 77 

Sauce for cold Meat ............................. 77 

{Sauce, a Salad 79 

Soup, an early Spring 82 

-Sauce, for cold Fowl and Veal » 84 

Soi»p, a White «., *. 93 

Soup, a Hare - 95 

Sauce, Fish, for keeping *.,. 101 

Sauce, Fish, a cheap one 102 

Shoulder of Veal, a Savoury one 105 

Stoup, Pease, Maigre . 120 

Soup, a Fish 122 

Soup, Pease, Maigre ..."...*...... 122 

Soup, White Pease, Maigre 123 

Sandwich, aa Anchovy r 127 



\ 



tap 

Soup, a Green Pease, Maigve •....,....•...,•«..•..•... 14J 

Soup, a Partridge ..•>.........»................ «.., 144 

Sauce for boiled Carp...... .%,.... • ♦. J 45 

Soup, a While .... r 119 

Soup, a French * ... 14? 

Soup, a White < «..., 149 

Soup, an Onion, Maigre ..*... .... 14$ 

Soup, a Green Pease 250 

&rflp, a White Dunelm 150 

Soup, a Carrot 151 

Soup, a White 152 

Soup, a Veal -.♦ 15* 

Soup, a Vegetable •< 151 

Soup, a mock Turtle • I'Sh 

4 

Soup, a Hare ~.... • 162 

Spir^age, to stew as in India I6T 

Soup, a-Grblet . : *?* 

Sauce, forcold Moor Game 1*7 tf 

Sandwich, called Buterham • 174 

Soup, Pease, Maigre ..",...... 17$ 

• 

Soup, a Vegetable, with Meat * l'SO 

Sauce, White, for boiled Carp .«•«♦ 1&6 

Sauce, a Batch, for Fish ; .....; 187 

Sandwich, to make .199 

Soup, a Partridge ... 200 

Sauce, Oyster ~., ....;....,. *...., .....*. 205 



> 



Y 



i 



. CONTENTS fef§ 

Page 

Soap] a Vermicelli, White .................... 207 

Sauce, Poivrade . ~ 2Q°/ 

Sandwich, a Cheshire 210 

Soup, an Oyster , 21 1 

Spinage, to dress with Cream ....,, 216 

Sausages, solid ...... ..... 219 

Sauce, Tomata 223 

Soup, a Giblet 226 

.Sausages without Skins 227 

Soup, a Mock Turtle 230 

Sauce, Mock Tomata . 232 

Sandwich, a Shrimp ...........* 233 

Spillage, to dress . «. 234 

Soup, -a Green Pease, with Rice 258 

T 

Toast, an Anchovy .*.- •• «...»•••»•«• 127 

Turtle, an English 155 

Turtle, Mock .'. 157 

Tomata Sauce ..; 158 

Tomatas, to Pot 159 

Turtle, Mock K ..~ 160 

Turtle, Mock ~.. ; 169 

Tomata Sauce 223 

Tomata Sauce, a Mock .......'. ..232 

Tench, to stew „.. 239 



3 ' 



V... 



£S4 CONTENTS, 

i 

V \\ 

Pit* 

Veal Slock, for Soups ...... 14 

Venison, Mutton 44 

Vinegar, to make ...... 66 

Veal, a Fillet of, to stew 69 

Veal, cold, a Sauce for 84 

Veal, a Savoury Shoulder of 103 

Vegetables, stewed as in Spain * 159 

Vinegar, Cucumber ...» I7£ 

VealCoIlops, White '. % 207 

Veal Broth, to make 212 



* 



W 

Wine, Malt » SO 

Wine, Malt 45 

Water Souchy , 53 

Woodcocks Eborised .... Hi 



Printed at the Office of 

T.WILSON and R. bPEN-CI, 

Hifch-Oufr$ait, York* 



r 



r? 



. ■ 

4 



> 



1 
I 

* 






-...*- 






r 



• > 



7 



