
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



IfaE CoHPXATB CoNfSCTIOKBR. 




(i?^^^jC</A.^^:c^ 






■ur'^'' 



CONFECTIONER^ 

OR, 

THE WHOLE ART OF 

CONFECTIONARY 

MADE easy: 

-CONTAINING, AMONG A VARIETY OF VS£FUI« MATTER, THE 
ART OF MAKING THE VARIOUS KINDS OF 

Biscuits, Fruits preserved in Brandy, 

Drops, Preserved Sweetmeats (wet) 

Prawlongs, Dried Fruits, 

.Ice Creams, Cordials, 

Water Ices, &c. &o. 

AS ALSO THE MOST APPROVED METHOD OF MAKING 

CHEESES, PUDDINGS, CAKES, &c. ^ 
IN 250 CHEAP AND FASHIONABLE RECEIPTS. 

The result of many years (experience with the celebrated 
Ne^i and Witten. 

BY FREDERIC NUTT, ESQ. 

Fourth Edition, with considerable additions. 



London Printed: 
FOR RICHARD SCOTT, 

AUD SOLD AT HIS BOOKSTORE, NO. 243 
PEARL-STREET. 

1«07. 



J]jU..J3.*'^#^^ 



HARVARD COLUEGE LIBRARY 

BEQUEST Gf 

MRS. CHESTER N. GREENOUGH 

SEPTEMBER 20. 1926 



ml 



ADVERTISEMENT. 



THE flattering reception whith this work hs^n 
experienced, from a discerning Public, calls 
forth a tribute of gratitude from the Author, and 
merits his warmest thanks* With the assistance 
of several intelligent friends, this edition is consi- 
derably enlarged. 
• 

It is very extraordinary, that only one workj 
except the present, was ever presented to the 
world, on the Art of Confectionary; that produc- 
tion has already met with the contempt which it « 
justly deserved. 

As the Author had the honour to occupy a dis- 
tinguished situation in this particular department, 
he has availed himself of several years' experience 
and application, in compiling this performance, 
which he again submits to the indulgence |nd can- 
dour of his readers. 



CONTENTS. 



BISCUITS, &c. 

No. 1. Fine Savoy Biscuits. 

2. Fine Spunge Biscuits. 

3. Orange Heart Biscuits. 

4. Naples Biscuits. 

5. Syringe Biscuits. 

6. Robe de Chambre Biscuits. 

7. Common Savoy Efiscuits. 

8. Sweetmeat Biscuits. 

9. Monkey Biscuits. 

10. Spice Biscuits. 

11. Tode in a Hole Biscuits. 

12. Millefruit Biscuits 

13. Masapan Biscuits. 

14. Judges Biscuits. 

15. , Queen's Cdkes. 

16. Yarmouth Biscuits. 
\7i King's Biscuits. 

18. Choclate Biscuits. 

19. Italian Water Biscuits. 

20. Water Cakes with Carraway Seeds. 

2 1 . French Rusks. 

22. Fine Sweatmeat Gingerbread Nuts. 

23. TurtulongS) fine, for Breakfast. 

24. Fine Shrewsbury Cakes. 

25. Lemon Biscuits. 

26. The Way to Blanch Almondfl* 

27. French Maccaroons. 

28. Eng. Maccaroons, generally called Common. 

29. Ratifia Biscuits. 

30. Orange Biscuits. 

31. Filbert Biscuits. 

32. Pistachio Nut Biscuits. 

33. Orange Flower Biscuits. 

A 2 



CONTENTS. 

34. Fine Almond Fagots. ^ 

35. Fine Ginger Cakes. 

36. French Apricot Biscuits. - 

37. French Barberry Biscuits. 

38. French Damson Biscuits, or Refined Cheese. 

39. A small fine Almond Cake 

40. A large Rich Two Guinea Cake. 

41. A Small Rich Seed Cake. 

42. A Small Rich Plumb Cake. 

WAFERS. 

43. Lemon Wafers, 

44. Barberry Wafers. 

45. Orange Wafers. 

46. Bergamot Wafers. 

47. Violet Wafers. 

48. Peppermint Wafers. 

DROPS. 

49. Bergamot Drops. 

50. Black Currant Drops. 

51. Chocolate Drops. 

52. Damson Drops. 

53. Seville Orange Drops. 

54. Lemon Drops. 

55. Orange Drops. 

56. Peppermint Drops. 

57. Violet Drops. 

58. Barley Sugar Drops. 

PRAWLONGS, &c. 

.59. Lemon Prawlongs. 

60. Orange Prawlongs. 

6 1 . Pistachio Prawlongs, Red. 

62. Burnt Filbert Prawlongs, Red* 

63. Orange Flower Prawlongs. 

64. Seville Orange Jumbles. 

65. Burnt Almonds, Red. 

66. Burnt Almondsy White. 



CONTENTS. 7 

d7. Pistachio Prawlongs, White. 
68. Burnt Filberts, White. 
• 69. Merings in the Form of Eggs. 

70. Almond Paste. 

71. Orgeant Paste. 

72. Orgeant Syrup. 

73. Lemon Syrup. 

74. Orange Syrup. 

75. Seville Orange Syrup. 

76. Pine Apple Syrup. 
11. Capillaire Sprup. 

JELLIES, &c. 

78. Currant Jelly, Red and White. 

79. Rasberry Jelly, for Ices. 

80. Apple Jelly, to put over your Fruit, or what 

you like. 

81. Hartshorn J^lly. . 

82. Caivesfoot Jelly. 

83. Black Currant Jelly. 
84« To make Blomonge. 

85. Goosberry Jelly. 

JAMS, &C. 

86. Rasberry Jam.' 
^1. Apricot Jam. 

88. Strawberry Jam. 

89. Barberry Jam. . 

90. Peach Jam. 

91. Black Plumb Jam. 
. 92. Rasberry Cakes. 

^3. Seville Orange Paste Cakes. 

94. Millefruit Rock Candy. 

95. Rock Sugar of all colours. 

96. Barley Sugar. 

P7. The way to make all sorts of Carraway Comfits. 

98. Cardamom Comfits. 

99. Carimel Crocont. 

100. Whip, for a Triste. 

101. Everlasting Whipsy Uabub to put into Glasses* 



^ CONTENTS. 

103. Floating Island. 

103. Iceing for a Rich Cake. 

104. To Clarify Sugar for Sweatmeats; 

ESSENCE FOR ICES. 

105. Cedraty Essence. 

106. Lemon Essence. 

107. Orange Blssence. 

WATERS, 8cc. FOR ROUTS. 

* 

108. Lemonade. 

109. Orangeade. 

1 10. Currant Water made of Jelly. 

111. Freah Currant Water. 

112. Cedraty Water. 

113. Rasberry Water, of Rasberry Jam. 

114. Fresh Rasberry Water. 

115. Bergamot Water. 

116. Apricot Water. 

1 17. Strawberry Water, of Strawberry Jam. 

118. Fresh Strawberry Water. 

119. Barberry Water. 

120. Peach Water. 
• 121. Pear Water. 

122. Cherry Water. 

123. Orgeat. 

ICE CREAJVIS. 

124. Barberry Ice Cream. 

125. Rasberry Ice Cream. 

126. Strawberry Ice Cream. 

127. Apricot Ice Cream. 

128. Pine Apple Ice Cream. 

129. CuiTant Ice Cream. 

130. Pistachio Ice Cream. 
IJll. Biscuit Ice Cream. 

132. Plain Ice Cream. 

133. Brown Bread Ice Cream, 

134. Royal Ice Cream* 



CONTENTS. 

135. Ginger Ice Creain. 

136. Fresh Strawberry Ice Cream;. 

137. Fresh Rasberry Ice Cream. 

138. Fresh Apricot Ice Cream, 

139. Coffee Ice Cream. 

140. Chocolate Ice Cream. 

141. Seville Orange Ice Cream. 
152. Lemon Ice Cream. 

143. China Orange Ice Cream. . 

144. Burnt Filbert Ice Cream. 

145. Burnt Ice Cream. 

146. Millefruit Ice Cream. 

147. Fresh Currant Ice Cream. 

148. Cedraty Ice Cream. 

149. Burnt Almond Ice Cream. 

150. Parmasan* Cheese Ice Creana^ 

151. Damson Ice Cream. 

152. Prunello Ice Cream. 

153. Peach Ice Cream.- 

154. Black Currant Ice Cream. 

155. Cherry Ice Cream. 

WATER ICES, OF ALL SORT^* 

156. Baiiierry Water Ice. 

1 57. Rasbeny Water Icfe. 

158. Strawberry Water Ice. 

1 59. Apricot Water Ice. 

160. Pine Apple Water Ice. 

161. Chocolate Water Ice. 

162. Seville Orange Water Ice. 

1 63. China Orange Water Ice, 

164. Lemon Water Ice. 

165. Punch Water Ice. 

166. Peach Water Ice. 

167. Currant Water Ice. 

168. Fresh Currant Water Ice, 

169. Fresh Rasberry Water Ice, 

170. Damson Water Ice. 

171. Prunello Water Ice. 

172. Blackcurrant Water Ice. 

173. Grape Water Ice. 



10 CONTENTS; 

174. Cherry Water Ice. 

175. Pear Water Ice. 

# 176. Miliefruit Water Ice. ' 

177. Bergamot Water Ice. 

178. Cedraty Water Ice. 

179. Fresh Strawberry Water Ice. 

FRUITS PRESERVED IN BRANDY. 

180. Apricots, in Brandy. 

181. Peaches, in Brandy. 

182. Morella Cherries, in Brandy. 

183. Mogul Plumbs, in Brandy. 

184. Green Gages, in Brandy. 

185. Green Orange Plumbs, in Brandy. 

186. Grapes inJBrandy. 

PRJESERVED SWEATMEATS WET. 

187. Green Apricots, Wet. 

188. Apricots Ripe, Wet. 

189. Preserved Pine Apple Chips, Wet. 

190. Angelica, Wet. 

191. Barberries in Sprigs, Wet. 

192. Rasberries Whole, Wet. » 

193. Currants in Bunches, Whole, Wet. 
104. Cedraties, V^hole, Wet. 

195. Cherries Sweet, in Syrup. 

196. Cherries not Sweet, Wet or Dry. 

197. Cucumbers or Gerkins, Wet. 

198. Comport Golden Pippins, Wet. 

199. Comport French Pears, White, Wet. 

200. Comport French Pears, Red, Wet. 

201. Damsons, Whole, Wet. 

202. Grapes in Bunches, Wet. 

203. Goosberries in the Form of Hops, Wet. 

204. Gre^n Goosbernes, Wet. ' 

205. Lemons, Whole, Wet. 

206. Seville Oranges, Wet. 

207. Orange Peels, Wet. 

208. Orange Chips, Wet. 

209. Lemon Chips, Wet. 



CONTENTS. nx 

210. Lemen Peels, Wet. 
311. Pears, Wet. 

212. Green Orange Plumbs, Wet. 

213. Mogul Plumbs, Wet. 
*214. Pine Apples, Whole, Wet. 

215. A Small Yellow Plumb, Wet. 

216. Strawberries Whole, Wet. . 

217. Apricot Chips, Wet. 
818. Green Gages, Wet. 

DRIED FRUITS- 

219. Damsons, Dried. 

220. Mogul Plumbs, Dried. 

221. Green Orange Plumbs, Dried. 

222. Green Gages, Dried. 

223. Pears Candied, or Dried; 

224. jCherries, Sweet, Dped. 

225. Cherries, not Swfcet, Dried. 

226. Apricot Chips, Dried. 

227. Orange or Lemon Chips, Candied or Dried; 

228. Angelica Knots, Dried. 

229. Barberries in Bunches, Dried. 

230. Lemon Peels, Candied or Dried. 

231. Cucumbers, Dried. 

232. Green Apricots, Dried. 

233. Apricots full Grown, Dried. 

234. Grapes in Bunches, Dried, 

235. Pine Apple Chips, Dried. 

236. Cedraties Whole or in Quarters, Dried* 
337. P«4Ste Knots, Red or White. 

MISCELLANEOUS RE^CEIPTS. 

238. Perfetto Amore. 

239. Pcrsico. 

240. Anniseed. 

24 1 . Cornelia or Cinnamon. 

242. Coffee. 

243. Chocolate* 

244. Damson Cheese* 

245. Apple Cheese 



12 CONTENTS. 

246. Lemon Pudding. 
• 247. Carrot Puddingy 

248. Citron Pudding. 

249. Rice Cak6. 

250. Rice Cheese Cake. 



COMPLETE CONFECTIONER. 



No. 1. JP'ifie Savoy Biscuits. 

BREAK twelve eggs and put the yplks in a bason,thcn 
put in twelve ounces of powdered sugar with the yolks, 
then rasp the rind of four lemons, and mix and stir the 
rind up with the yolks and sugar, and beat them 
with a wooden spoon ten minutes, then whisk the whites 
ift a copper pan, but do not leave whisking them till 
they are almost strong enough to bear an egg, or they 
will go to water and be spoiled, and when you think you 
have whisked them enough, then mix the yolks with 
them, with a wooden spoon as light as possible, when 
it is mixed w£ll, take ten ounces of fine fiour as dry as 
possible, and stir it up with the eggs and sugar, but not 
too much only till it mixes with the eggs ; then take a 
small tea-spoon and take out a spoonful of the batter 
and pull it along the paper, and as you pull the spoon 
along the paper push the batter down with your finger, 
so as to make the biscuit about three inches long, and 
about half an inch wide ; then sift some sugar over 
them before you put them in the oven, which must be 
very hot, but be careful they are not burnt, for they soon 
-jlcorch if you do not watch them ; and when they are 
done cut them off the paper whilst they are hot. 
No. 2. Fine Sfiunge Biscuits. 

TAKE three quarters of a pound of powdered sugar, 
and put it in a bason, and take twelve eggs and break 
the whites into a copper pan, and put the yolks in with 
sugar, and beat the sugar and yolks together with a 
wooden spoon, till you seethe sugar and yolks blow up 
in bladders of wind ; then whisk the whites well till 
they are almost fit to beamn egg on them; then mix 
the yolks and the sugar with the whites, with a large 
spoon very lightly, and stir them as little as possible, 
only till you see the whites and yolks are just mixed ; 
then take ten ounces of fine flour and mix well witli the 
eggs J then butter the tin moulds well, before you put 
B 



14 THE COMPLETE 

the batter in thetn, otherwise you will not get them out 
when they are baked, and when you have filled the tins, 
sift a little powdered sugar on the top of thekn, before 
you put them in the oven ; it makes them a very fine 
ice : let your oven be moderate, and when baked take 
them out of the tins while they are hot, for they will 
come out the better when hot; 

No. 3. Orange Heart £Ucuit^> 

TAKE three quarters of a pound of powdered su- 
gar, and put it in a pewter bason, and put in thirty yolks 
of eggs with the sugar, and take seven preserved o- 
range peels and poimd them in a morter very fine quite 
to a past, then take a handful of sweet and half a handful 
of bitter almonds, and pound them very fine, and mix 
them with a little orange flower water ; then put four 
eggs, yolks mid whites together, and put them in the 
bason with the sugar, eggs, and peel, and mix them well 
together with a wooden spoon in each hand, and beat 
them till you see the batter rise very much, though you 
can hardly beat them too light, beat.them till it turns 
quite white, and puffs up in bladders ; then put in half a 
pound of sifted flour, and mix it with the batter very 
lightly ; then butter the hearts, fill them, said sift a lit- 
tle powdered sugar over them, before you put them in 
the oven, which must be rather quick, but not too hot, 
otherwise they will not be light, and take them out of 
the tins while they are hot. 

No. 4. JVafdea Biscuiu. 

TAKE one pound and a half of Lisbon sugar, put it 
into a little copper saucepan, and three quarters of a 
pint of wine measure of water in with the sugar, and 
one small cupful of orange flower water, and boil the 
sugar with the water till it is all melted ; then break 
twelve eggs, whites and yolks together, whisk them 
well, then pour the Lisbon syrup boiling hot in with 
the eggs, and whisk them as fast as you can at the time 
of pouring in the syrup, or the eggs will Spoil, and 
when you have poured it all in, keep whisking it till it is 
quite cold and set, and when it is cold, take one pound 
and a half of flower, aud mix it as 4ight as possible ; 
then put two sheets of paper on the copper ^ate you 
batke on, then take one sheet of paper, and make the 



CONFECTIONER. 15 

odges of it stmd up atiottt an inch and an half high, and 
pour your batter in ity sift some powdered sugar over 
it, care^lly, to prevent its burning on the top ; do not 
leave the oven one minute when you think it is near 
baked enough ; and when baked, take it out in the pa- 
per, and let it stand till c(4d, then turn it over, and wet 
the bottom of the paper, till the paper comes o£F with 
ease, then cut it to what size you like : you may bake 
it in small tins if you please. 

No. $• Sf^ringe BUetdts, 

TAKE one pound of sweet almonds, and pound them 
in a marble morter very fine with whites of eggs, but be 
careful not to make them too wet with the eggs, only 
just wet enough to prevent the ahnonds from getting 
oily, and when you find they get rather dry, then put 
another white of an egg in them, and pound them 
so fine, till you can scarce feel the least lump c^ an 
almcKid in it, tiimk rasp the rind ^ six lemons very 
fine, and put in two pounds and a half of powdered 
sugar, and mix the sugar, almonds^ and the peel al- 
together as a past y then take>a syringe mould made of 
copper, adout twelve inches long, and about two inches 
vride, made round, and to screw off at the bottom, with 
a little round copper plate, the size of the inside of the 
syringe with a little hole cut in the middle of it) in the 
. shape of a star, and the mould must have two handles, 
about the middle of it ; then roll your paste to half £11 
your mould ; then take a rammer the thickness of the 
mould, put it over the past and squeeze it out against 
your breast upon the dresser, which must be floured a 
little, so as not to stick, and it will come out at the bot- 
tom of the mould, then cut it in pieces about three 
inches long, and join them in rings, and put three 
sheets of paper under them, before you put them into 
the oven, otherwise they will bum, for your oven must 
be vei7. bride. 

No. 6. Rohe de Chambre Biacuka, 

TAKE syrup of sugar, and boil it over a brisk char- 
coal fire, till it comes to carimile, then have some Jor- 
dan almonds ready, and put them into the carimile su- 
gar, stir them up with a large wooden spoon over and 
over, till you see they are covered with sugar and dry> 



16 THE COMPLETE 

then throw them into a wooden sieves mA pkk th^i» 
that stick together and break them ofiF, then make some 
icemg with whites of eggs and powdered sugar, and a lit- 
tle orange flower water, and pot the almonds into the 
iceing, and see them well covered with it, thNi put two 
sheets of paper upon the plate, and put your hiacuito at 
a conyenient distance from each other, so as not to 
touch ; 1^ the oven be moderate to colour finely the ice- 
ing, and when they come out, let them stand till they 
are cold, before you take them off the pi^rs. 
No. 7. Omnmott Saving 3i$euit9l 

BREAK six eggs in a little copper saucepan, with 
half a pound of powdered sugar, whisk the eggs and su- 
gar very light, keep wliisking them half an hour ; then 
mix lialf a pound of sifted flower with the eggs and su- 
gar with a wooden spoon ; then take a tea-spoon, and 
one spoonful of batter, and pull it along the paper, and 
as you pull the spoon along the paper, push the batter 
down with your finger, so as to make the biscuit about 
three inches long, and about half an inch wide ; then sift 
some sugar over them before you put them in the oveoy 
which must be very hot, but be careful that they are not 
bunit, for they soon scorch if you do not watch thenit 
and when they are done cut them olT the paper whilst 
they are hot. 

No. 8. Sweetmeat BUctdtSm 

TAKE some Naples luscuits that have been baked, 
and cut them in small pieces, about an inch and a half 
square, and about an inch thick, and lay them on your 
wire, and put them in the oven just to crisp them, then 
make some iceing with whites of eggs, and sugar and 
orange flower water, and dip one side of the biscuit in it ; 
then cut some sweetmeats in small pieces, such as le- 
mon and orange pe^l, and angelico, and just throw over 
the top of them, put them on your wire : you need no 
paper under them, then put them in the oven to harden 
the iceing, and they are done.. 

No. 9. Monkey Biscuits* 

TAKE six eggs and break the whites and yolks sepa- 
rate, and mix the weight of six eggs of powdered sugar 
with the yolks, and beat them well together, then put 
the whites in a copper pan, and whisk them well, and 



CONFECTIONER. 17 

put a little ckmamon pounded in with the yolks and su- 
gar, then mix the yolk»and sugar with the whites ; then 
take four eggs and the weight of them of sifted fiour, 
then mix and stir them all together ; then lay three or 
four sheets of paper on the plate you bake on ; and take 
a tea*8poonf|il of batter, and put it on the upper sheet 
of paper, then make them round and about the size of 
a half crown piece, and join two of them togethisr with 
the spoon ; and sift a little powdered sugar over them, 
and put them in the o?en, watch them for they are not 
long a baking, and whea they come out, cut them off 
the paper while they are hot, and put the two under 
sides of them together. 

No. 10. S^ce Bi9Ctdta% 

TAKE three pounds of flour ; and three pounds of 
sweet almonds cut in half, and put them with the flour 
and three ounces of spice, such as cinnamon and mace 
pounded, and one pound of powdered sugar, and mix 
them together on your dresser, then take three pounds 
of Lisbon sugar, and put it in a ^ucepan with some 
water and just boil it, and then mix it with the rest of 
the ingredients on the dresser, and when it is all mixed 
to a paste, heat your oven very hot, and put three pa- 
pers next your plate, then roll your paste to the size 
of a large rolling pin ; then put it on your paper and flat 
it down with your hand about three inches wide, but 
higher in the middle than at the ends, then put them in 
the oven, and when thy are baked take them out while 
hot, cut Uiem with a sharp knife, about the eighth part 
an inch thick, in the form of a rusk, and you will see tlie 
almonds look very well cut in them. 

No. 11. Toad'in-a-Apie BUcuitSm 

TAKE one pound of sweet, and one ounce and a 
half of bitter almonds, and pound them in a mortar 
very fine with water, then o^e pound and a quaner of 
Lisbon sugar, and mix it very well with the almonds : 
do not make it too thin, and remember tliere are no egg^s 
in this \ then put one sheet of paper on your wire, 
and some wafer paper on that, then take a spoon and 
make your biscuits round on the wafer paper, about the 
size of a half-crown piece ; then put one or two dried 
cherries in the middle of them ; and sift some powder* 
B 2 



18 THE COMPLETE 

ed sugar over theni) and put tkem in the oven^ "which 
must have a moderate heati and when thef come outy 
cut the wafer paper round them) but leave the paper at 
the botom of them. 

No. 12. MUefrtdt Bitctdtt. 

TAKE a quarter of a pound of preserved onoige peel 
and cut it in pieces about half an inch k>ng) and not quite 
a quarter wide ; then take six ounces of angelico, cut it 
the same waf, and a quarter of a pound of preserved 
lemon peel, and six ounces of sweety and one ounce of 
Utter almonds, and let all these be cut the same way as 
the orange peel, and put some whites <^ eggs, sugar, 
and orange flower water in a bason, and make an iceing ; 
then put all these into it, and paper your plate with three 
papers, and make them what size you chuse, then take 
a Uttle brush and touch them here and there with a lit- 
tle cochineal colour, it will make them look well ; let 
your oven not be too hot, only just to dry the iceing, 
as it will stick together well, let them be coki before 
you take them off, and they will be like a piece of a 
rock, &c* 

No. 13. Mampan BUcuits. 

TAKE one pound of sweet almonds and pound them 
very fine, so fine that you can scarce feel the least 
lump, you niay use water to them ; then take one pound 
of powdered sugar, and put the almonds and sugar in a 
clean saucepan, and have a clear charcoal fire', but not 
fierce ; stir them together over the fire with a wooden 
spoon, till the paste leaves the pan and keeps itself to- 
gether, but keep stirring it all the time, and be careful 
that it does not bum to the pan ; put it on a dresser 
with a little flour under it, and work it up well with your 
hands till it hangs well together ; then roll small pieces 
of it about three inches long and about half the thick- 
ness of your little finger, join the ends of them, and 
make them in round rings ; put them on the back of 
a wooden sieve, and put them in a stove or any dry 
place where there is some warmth to come to them, 
let them stay two or three day% till they are quite hard, 
and when you want to bake them, take about eight 
whites of eggs, and put in a bason, mix some powdered 
sugar with them> and with a wooden spoon in each hand 



CONFECTIONER. 19 

beat it well ; put a cup ftitl of orange fiower water in it, 
beat well ; add more powdered sugar to it if there is oc- 
casion, to make it a proper thickness, and beat it about 
a quarter of an hoar till yon see it puff up and rise ; 
take a wire and put your iMscuits in this iceing in the 
bason, and take them out and turn them inside down 
with your finger on this wire ; and let the iceing 'run 
through this wire into another bason until you see your 
rings quite through, then lay three sheets of paper oh 
the plate, let the oven be very slow, and put them in, 
only until the iceing is set and they begin to change co- 
lour, then take them out and let them stand till they 
are cold before you take them off. 

No. 14. Judges Biscuits. 

TAKE six eggs and break them into a copper pan, 
yolks and whites together, whisk them well for aboiit 
five minutes, mix half a pound of powdered sugar with 
the eggs, and whisk them for ten minutes, put as many 
carraway seeds as you think proper, and half a pound 
of sifted flour, mix it well with a wooden spoon, and 
put three papers on your plates ; then take a spoon 
and drop them on papers about the size of a crown 
piece, sift some powdered sugar over them, let them 
be rather thick in the middle, and the oven rather sharp, 
and when they come out, cut them off the paper 
while hot. 

No. 15. Queen Cakes. 

TAKE one pound of the best butter, and rub it well 
with your hand in the preserving pan until it is as fine 
as cream, then take twelve eggs, yolks and-^whites to- 
gether, and whisk them weH in another pan over a 
gentle fire, mind they do not bum, for they will with- 
out g^at care ; take twelve ounces of powdered su- 
gar, and put with the eggs, keep whisking them for 
three minutes, put the eggs and the sugar over the fire 
again and whisk them, and be careful it does not bum 
at bottom, when it is pi*etty warm take it off and whisk 
it till it is cold, then mix it well with your hand ; take 
one pound of sifted flour, and twelve ounces of currants, 
well picked and washed, mix them well with the rest, 
butter your tin hearts, and put them on your plate^ 
•\vitli three or four papers under them, your oven must 



«to THE COMPLETE 

be quickjbut if 70U ind it too hot for the tx^, put a 

sheet of paper over then) to keep them from barning.. 

No. 16. Yarmouth Bi9cui$9* 

TAKE six ounces of curnmts, wash and pick them 
very clean^ drjr them well, rub a little fiour amoof: 
them to make them white, and put half a pound of 
powdered sugar with the currants upon a clean dre»- 
aer ; add twelve ounces of flour sifted, and half apcmnd 
of the best fresh butter you can get ; brei^k three egga, 
and mix all the ingredients together to become a paste, 
that you can roll it on the dr^raer, the thickness of an 
ei^^th part of an inch, and th^i cut them out either 
round or what shape you fency. 

N. B. Your oven must be rather hot, and put two 
or three sheets <^ paper under them, do not bake them 
too much, only just make them brown. , 

No* 17. Xing9 BiactdtB, 

TAKE half a pound of butter and work it about in a 
liason with a wooden spoon, then take six eggs and 
whisk them well ; put half a pound of powdered sugar 
in them and whisk them about ten minutes ; mix the 
«gg» suid sugar with the butter, then take six ounces of 
currants well washed, and put them with the eggs, and 
six ounces of flour, and mix it well together, put three 
sheets of paper on the plate, take a teaspoon and drop 
the paste on the paper about the size of a shillings put 
Ihem in a sharp oven, and cut them o£f while they are 
hot. 

No. 18. Chocolate Biacuita, 

TAKE a quarter of a pound of chocolate, and put it 
on a tin, over a stove to make it warm, then put a pound 
of powdered sugar in a bason, and when the chocolate 
is quite warm and soft, put it in with the sugar, and 
mix it well with about eight whites of eggs, if you find 
it too thin, mix more powdered sugar with it ju&t tp 
brihg it to a paste, so that you can roll it in lumps as 
big as walnuts : let your oven be moderate, put three 
papers under them, let the oven just raise them and 
make them crisp and firm, and let them be quite cold 
before you take them off the paper. 

No. 19. Italian Water Biacuits, 

TAKE six eggs and break theui put the yolks and 



CONFECTIONER- 21 

WSitea in a copper pMi wkh the W^gfat of the six eggSf 
of pow«lered sugar, whisk them well for half an hour: 
take ux more eggs and the weight of them of sifted 
flour, mix it with tkem^ eut a piece of wood about the 
size of the top c^a large breakfiist cup, but not thicker 
than the eighth of an inch, in the form of a round ring 
with a piece projecting firom it -to hold by as a handle ; 
ti^ a table spoonful of the batter, and with a large 
knife spread it to the thickness of the wood until the 
hng ia.filled up ; lay your kiufe on the paper close to 
the wood, ttid lift the wood up, md you will see your 
cake on the paper : put as «iany of them on the paper 
as you can without touchsi^ each other ; let your oven 
be very h^ and they will be baked in five minutes, but 
take care they do not bum at bottom ; when they are 
done let them stand until they are qmte cold, then wet 
the other side of the paper and they will come off 
easily, put them in the oven afterwanis to dry crisp. 
No. 20. Wattr Cates vdfh Carrtgway Seed9. 

TAKE three pounds of powdered sugar and four 
ponBkds of u&ed floor,mix the flour and sugar together on 
a clean dresser vnth half water and half whites of eggB» 
and as many earraway seeds as yon may thuik proper, 
mix all toget|ier so as to make it a very fine paste, that 
ycMt can roll it on the dresser uu) the thinner the better, 
eut out the shape you like with a thin cutter % round 
and scolloped is the general fashion, but vary the shape 
to your fancy, roll them very thin and they will be the 
crisper, for if they an not crisp they are not worth eat- 
ing ; put them on a sheet of paper and rather a slow 
oven, and if you think it too hot, put as many sheets of 
paper as you think fit to provent them from being 
burnt, bake them very little so as just to change the 
colour of them, and butter that sheet of paper you put 
them on that they may come off easily. 
No. 31. French Rueka. 

1*AKE a clean copper pan and break into it as many 
eggs as the yc4ks will make the weight of a pound, use 
no white in this ingredient, take one pound and a hdf 
of powderod sugar and put in with the yolks of the eggs, 
"ivith a large wooden spoon stir them up well together 
«bout ten minutes, put in three handsful of carraway 



22 THE COMPLETE 

seeds, and two pounds of flour, and mix airtogether, 
roll your paste on a clean dresser in a roll abo^ four* 
teen inches long and the thickness of a large rdling 
pin, paper your plate with three sheets of paper besides 
the sheets your paste is on, hiy the paste in a long roll 
on the paper and fiat it down with yo^r hand, let it be 
about one inch high in the middle of the paste, and fiat 
it down towards the edges, leather to a point, and afler 
diey are baked, wet the paper that they may come ofif 
whilst they are warm, and be careful not to bake them 
too much, or they wiM not cut without breaking, th«i 
with a sharp knife, cut them about a quarter of an meh 
thkk, in the form of a rusk, and lay them fiat on the 
wire, and put them into the oven so as to make them 
crisp and dry, and they are done. 

No. 32. jFfatf Sweatmeat Qingtrbread Mit9. 

TAKE two poimdsof the best treacle and put it in a 
large bason ; then take half a pound of the best fresh 
butter, and c««f ully m^t it, not to oil, pour the butter 
to the treacle, and stir it well as y<m pour it in ; add 
tltfee quarters of an bmice of the be^ pounded ginger, 
and piH in with it two ounces of preserved lemon and 
oruige peel cut very small ; and two ounces of pre- 
served angelica, likewise cut very small ; %nd one ounce 
of cfMiiander seed pounded, and one ounce and a half 
^ carraway seeds whole, mix them well together ; then 
break two eggs, yolks and whites together, and mix as 
much fiour as will bring it to a fine paste ; make them 
the size you choose; put them on the bare tin plate, 
and let your oven be rather brisk. 

No* 23. TurttU(mga^Jine^for breakfitet. 

Take a quarter of a pound of butter, thrfse ounces of 
powdered sugar, one pound and a half of flour, six eggs 
yolks and whites together, and a very little salt, and 
mix them all together on your dresser, and having a 
preserving pan on the fire, with clean boiling water in 
it, roll your batter out about four inches long, and al- 
most as thick as your little finger, join it in two round 
lings the two ends of them, and put them in this boil-* 
ing water, not too many at a time, then on the other 
side have a bason with cold water, and as the biscuits 
swim on the top of the boiling water, take them out^ 



CONFECTIONER. 23 

put thtnn in the cold water, and let them lie all night ; 
take them out next m<miing and put them into a sieve, 
and drain all the water from them ; put them on your 
plate, without any paper imder them, let your oven he 
very hot, and watch them, and you will see them rise 
very much, the mere the better, see they are not burnt, 
but let them be of a fine brown, and then take them oat. 
No» 34. I^ine S^evfs6ury Cakes. 

TAKE a poimd of butter, and put it in a little flat 
pan, rub it till it is as fine as cream ; then take one 
pound of powdered sugar, a little cinnamon and mace 
potmded, uid four eggs, yolks and whites together : 
beat them with your hand till it is very light ; th^i 
take one pound and a half of sifted flour, work it toge- 
ther, and roll it on your dresser, to what size you like, 
oiily very fiat, let your oven be rather slow, and let 
them change their colour, then take them out. 
No. 35. Lemon Bi9Ctdt9, 

TAK.E cme pound ci sweet almonds, and pound 
them very fine in a mortar, and whites of eggs with 
them, be careful to temper them properly, to prevent 
the almonds fi*om tummg to oil,' and pound them to a 
very fine paste ; put in three pounds of powdered su- 
Ipr, and mix it well ; take ten lemons, rasp the rinds 
of them very fine, and mix it with the almonds and 
sugar ; when they are all well mixed, take a knife, 
and a small piece of board in your band, and try to 
drop off the paste on a sheet of paper, about half the 
size of a nutmeg, and round, put them at a convenient 
distance firom each other, and put them in the oven, 
which if you find too hot, put three or four sheets of 
paper, or more at bottom, as occasion shall require 
under your biacmts, to prevent their scorching, when 
they come out of the oven, let them stand till they are 
quite cold, and they will come ofl" the paper very 
easily. 

No. 36* The Way to Blanch Jhnmd9. 

FCXR all faiicuits that are made with almonds, the 
almonds mitfl always be blanched, imd for every thing 
else, except it is particularly mentioned to the con- 
trary, and the quickest way of blanching them is tins ; 
viz^ pat apaa of water on the fire and let it boil, then 



24 THE COMPLETE 

put the almonds in for about ten minutes^ dran the 
water from them, put .them on a dresser and rob them 
Vis hard as yon can with both your hands, and when 
you think they are almost blanched, take a batcher's 
tray and put them in, and holding each end of the tray 
fan them up and down tHI you see almost all liie skins 
are gone over, then lay them on the dresser again, and 
those that are not blanched do them with your fingers^ 
and fan them again ; and when they are done keep 
them very dry or else they will get sour. 
No. 27. French Maecarofnu. •* 

TAKE one pound of sweet alitionds aid pound them 
very fine in a mortar, with whites of eggs« and becare-^ 
ful they do not oil ; then take three pounds of powdered 
sugar and mix with the almonds and whites of eggs to 
a fine thickness, so as to come off the spoon well ; then 
put three sheets of paperon your plate, and with a table 
spoon drop them off a little distance from each other 
so as not to touch, put them in rather a brisk oven, but 
mind they do not burn, bake them of a very fine browA 
colour and crisp ; then let them stand till they are eddy 
before you take them off, but if they are burnt at bot-^ 
torn, they will not come off at all, so that you must be 
very careful of them. ^ 

No* 28. EngH^ Mgecaroona eammonly tailed Common. 

TAKE one pound of sweet almonds and pound them 
in a mortar with a gill of water, and the rest whites of 
eggs according to the pounding of them, not too wet 
nor too dry, but you need not pound these almonds quite 
so fine as for the French Maccaroons ; then add one 
pound of the4)est Lisbon sugar, and mix it weH with 
your almonds ; then take a wire, and lay one sheet of 
paper on the wire, take some sheets of wafer paper, 
join them, and lay them on the paper that is on the wire, 
put your paste in a bason, take a table spcKmful of the 
paste, and drop it off the spoon ; sift some powdered 
sugar over them ; let your oven be pretty quick, but 
do not bs^ke them much, only till tlie tofMi are of a fine 
brown, for tliese biscuits must be rathef* moist when 
eaten ; when they are done, take them' out ; and cut 
the wafer paper off found them, but mind and leave the 
wafer paper at bottom of them, and round the sides of 
them. 



CONFECTIONER- 25 

No. 99. Ratafia Bieadt* 

TAKE half a poiind of «weet almonds, aad half a 
pound of l»tler abnoods, and pound them in a mortal 
very ^lOy with whites of eggs ; put three pounds of 
powdwed sugary mix it well with the whites of eggs» to 
the proper t^ackness into a hiMon ; put two or three 
sheets of paper on the plate you bake on ; take your 
knife, and the spaddle made of wood, and drop them on 
the paper, let th«m be round, and about the size of a 
large nutmeg ; put them in the oren, wliich must be 
<|uiGk, let them have a tee toown, ancl all alike, but be 
careful they are not burnt at bottom, else they will not 
come off the paper when baked ; let them be cold before 
yim take tbem off. 

No* SO. Orange BUcuk», 
. TAKE OBe pound of sweet almonds, pound them in 
a mortar very foe with whites of eggs $ take ten China 
oranges, rasp the rind off thefln very fine, and put it 
with the almonds ; add three pounds of powdered sugar, 
and mix it weU, if you findit too thick, put more whites 
of eggs to it and mix it well ; then put two or throe 
sheets of paper under* besides that you have put them 
on : let your oven have a moderate heat ; drop littlf 
round pieces of paste on your paper, about half as big as 
a nutmeg, aad put them in the oven : lejt them have a 
fine brown, and take them off when cc^d. 
No. 3 1 . Filbert BUcwta, 

TAKE some Barcelona filbert nuts, and put them in 
a mortar to break the shells, pick all the shells from 
them clean, pound them in a mortar very fine, and mix 
whites of eggs with them ; take care they do not oil ; 
mix three pound of powdered sugar with the nuts and 
whites of eggs to a proper thickness, let your oven have 
a moderate hea£, then with the spaddle and knife, drop 
small pieces, the same uze as the orange and le- 
lAon Uscuits ; and put two or thuee sheets ^ paper un- 
der them, let them be a fine brown and all alike, and let 
them be cold befoi'e you take them off the paper. 
No. Z%. Pistachio Met Biecidte. 

TAKE half a pound of pistachio nuts and blanch 
themrpound them in a mortar very fine ; mix whites of 
eggs, and one pound of powdered sugar in a bason^ 
C 



26 THE COMPLETE 

break sixteen eggs^ iand put the whites of them in a 
copper pan, whisk them very strong, fit to bear an egg 
on them, put the yolks with the sugar and pastachio 
nuts, beat them well with a spoon in each hand, mix the 
sugar, yolks and pistachio nuts with the whites very 
lightly, then put one pound and a quarter of flour, as 
" lightly as possible ; butter your spunge tins, and put the 
; paste in : sift some powdered sugar over them, before 
you put them In the oven, let the heat be moderate, 
and put three papers under the tins : do not let your 
biscuits be burnt, but of a fine colour, and take them out 
of the tins while hot. 

No. 33. Orange Flower BUcuita. 
TAKE powdered sugar, what quantity you choose, 
and put as much white of eggs, as will make the sugar 
of a thick paste ; pick some orange flowers, and mix as 
many as you like, in proportion to your quantity of su- 
gar, and whites of eggs, in a bason, so as to be thick 
. enough to roll in little lumps, about the size of a walnut ; 
let your oven be rather slack or moderate ; put three 
papers between them and the tin plate, put them in the 
oven; let them rise to a very light brown, and take them 
ofl* when cold. 

No. 34. Fine Mmond Fagots. 
CUT some, sweet almonds in halves, put them and 
some whites of eggs in a bason together ; put a little 
powdered sugar, to make the almonds stick together, 
mix them well together in a bason ; put some wafer 
papera on your wire, make the almonds up in little heaps 
with your fingers, as big as you please ; sift a little pow- 
dei^ed sugar over them, before you put them in the 
oven ; let them be a little brown, and then take them out, 
and cut the wafer paper ofl^ round them, that is ragged, 
and leave the wafer paper at the bottom of them. 
No. 35. Fine Ginger Cakes, 
TAKE four pounds of flour, and put on your dresser, 
then take a copper saucepan, and break six eggs, and 
mix them well with a spoon ; put one pint of cream in 
them, and beat them well, put the saucepan over the 
fire, and stir it till it is just warm ; put two pounds of 
butter into the cream and eggs ; and one pound of pow- 
dered sugar, and stir it over a very slow fire^ just to 



confectioner: «? 

melt all the butter ; put in four ounces of pounded gin- 
ger, and when all the butter is melted, pour it ail into 
the middle of the flour, mix it as well as you can, and 
\irhen jrou have made it a fine paste, roll it out with flour 
under it, on your dresser, cut them to the size of the 
top of a breakfast cup, and a quarter of an inch thick : 
put three papers under them, before you put them in 
the oven, which must be very hot. 

N. B. These are very good for the stomach in cold 
weather. 

No. 36. Fresh Afiricot Biscuits. 
. TAKE some of the ripest apricots, and put them in 
an earthen jar, in a copper pot ; fill the pot up with wa- 
ter round the jar, cover the jar over very close, put it 
over the fire, and let it simmer for four or five hours, 
and then take the apricots, cut and put them in a sieve 
till next morning, pass them through the sieve with 
your hand : to every two pounds of jam, put five pounds 
of powdered sugar, and beat it well together with* two 
spoons ; then break into it eight whites of eggs, whisk 
them very strong, and mix theni with the jam ; fiU^your 
paper moulds, and put them in the hot stove, and do 
the same as you will see in the receipt of the barberry 
biscuits, and put them in a dry box. 

No. 37. Fresh Barberry Biscuits, 
' TAKE your barberries, and put them in the oven ; 
pass them through a sieve, and allow to every two 
pounds of barberries, five pounds of powdered sugar, 
sifted through a lawn sieve ; mix the sugar with the 
barberries ; break four eggs, put the whites in a copper 
pan, and whisk them very strong, mix them with the 
jam ; glaze some thick white paper, cut it in small 
piecei^, and make them in small square bezes, common- 
ly called coffins ; put the jam in as smooth as possible, 
and put them in a sieve ; then put them in your stove, 
and let them be in six or eight days ; when they are 
dry, tear the paper off them, put them in your papered 
box, and keep them dry. 

No. 38. Fresh Damson Biscuit^ or rejined Cheese, 
. TAKE some fine damsons, and put them in a brown 
earthen pan ; put them in the oven, and let them be till 
you find that all the skins will come off, and that the 



2» THE CaMPLETE 

damsons are quite baked tbroogh ; tkea take t&em onsu 
skin and stone them, pass tbem through a sieve with a 
spoon ; put live poutidsof powdered sugar toevery two 
pounds of jam^add five, whites of eggs wlHsked very 
strong, mix them well with the jam and sugar ; pot 
them in paper raoukls, as you do the barberry biscuits ; 
let them be in the stove five or six days, when dry take 
the paper off, and put them in your dry box. 
No* 39, ji amalljine Almond Cake. 

TAKE six ounces of powdered sugar, and put it mtso 
a bason ; then take five eggs, and put the yolks with the 
sugar ; and six ounces of almonds, half bitter, and half 
sweet, pound the almonds very fine in a mortar with the 
white of an egg or ti^o, put them in with the yolks and 
sugar, beat them well with a woodea spoon, whisk the 
whites very strong in the copper pan, mix the yolks uid 
the rest with the whites, as light as possible, and take 
two ounces of Hour, sifted very fine, and mix it with the 
rest : paper the heap that you mean to bake itln, with 
three papers double on the inside of the heap, and four 
at bottom ; let your oven be very brisk, a»d before yoa 
put it in, sift a little powdered sugar over the top of it ; 
if you find after it has been in the oven a little time, that 
it is too hot for it on the top, put one or two sheets of 
paper on the top of the cake, to prevent its scorching. 
They will not take above half an hoar baking, if your 
oven is proper for them. 

No. 40. A iargerich two Chdnea Cake, 

TAKE a large flat copper preserving pan ; then take 
four pounds of the best fresh biitter ami rob the butter 
very fine ; take another large copper p^i and break 
fifty -lour eggs, whisking them t^i militttes ; put finir 
pounds of powdered sugar, and whisk the eggs and msi* 
gar together over the fire, till yott find k pretty wamii 
take it off, and whisk, it till coid|«nix it welt with tlie 
butter, with your band, and put in an ounce o€ mace ami. 
cinnamon pounded, and two gkiisses of brandy : eut two 
pounds o^ lemon and orange peel, and citvoii,atidone 
pound of sweet almonds ; take five pounds and three 
quarters of flour, and sift it, put in hidf ei it, then take 
^ur pounds of clean currants and put in. 

J\r, B, When you have put half you-fieitr in, theft 



CONFECTIONER. Ji^ 

. add a.'qiiarter of a pound of hitter almonds, pounded with 
a little powdered sugar, juat to keep them from oiling, 
put the rest of the £bur in, and paper your lai*ge heap, 
putting four sheets withkiside, and at bottom, loid let 
your oven he very brisk. 
• No. 41. A MuUl rich Seed Cake. 

. BREAK fourteen eggs into a copper pan, whisk 
them ten mmutes ; then take one pound of butter, and 
rub it weU with your hand to a cream ; put one pound of 
powdered sugar to the eggs, and whUk them over the 
£re three minutes, then whisk them till they are cold, 
afterwards mix them with the butter, with your hand 
as light as you can ; put two or three handsful of car- 
raway seed in, and some sweet almonds cut ; and a little 
cinnamon and mace ; mix one pound and a quarter of 
flour, as light as you can with your hand : put t^ree pa- 
pers inside your heap, and four or fire at bottom, and let 
your oven be rather brisk ; when yoti find your cake has 
risen, and the oven too hot at the top, cover it with a 
sheet of paij^er, and if will be done in about an hour and 
a hal£^ or two hours at fisrthest . 

No. A%. A ^maU rUfi Phtmb Cake. 
TAKE one pound and. six ounces of currants, wash 
and pick them very clean, then dry them, and rub a lit* 
tie flour with them, to make them all white ; take one 
pound of butter, «id put it into a copper preserving pan^ 
rub it with your hand quite to a cream ; take another 
pan, and bres^ atzteen eggs, yolks and whites together^ 
whisk them about tea mmutes ; take one pound of pow* 
dered sugar, put it in with the eggs, whisk tl\em well 
over the fire, and be careful it does not bum at bottom ^ 
make the whisk go to the bottom, and when you feel 
they are warm, take it off ; whisk them till they are 
quite cold before you put them to the butter, mix them 
well with the butte^with your hand, put the pound and 
SIX ounces of cun-s^ts in with it ; put ki one pound and 
a quarter of fiouip, and mix it with thereat ; add half a 
pound:of citron and lemon and ovange peel cut in it ; 
and a -handful of sweet almonds cut \ and a handful bit* 
ter almonds pounded with a little powdered sugar ; half 
an ounce of cinDamon «Bd mace pounded* and a glass af 



30 THE COMPLETE 

brfoidy ; then pufmr your hoapf patjost eakt is tbe 
oreni and let k be of a regukor beat* 

No. 43. I^mon Wq/m. 

TAKE SIX leoion% ands^ieeze kttoMi eiaiFthefi paaa ; 
pound and sift some double refitted sii|^r aad imx It 
with the leraoD juke i fnit one white of an egg in with 
ky and mix it tip weU together with yoor wooden spoon* 
to malite it of a fine thicknoM ; take seme ahectftof wa- 
fer papery and put one aheec^ of it on a pewter slieety mv 
tiaphue, puta spoonful Qn» tfid cover the aheeto of wm- 
fer paper all over witii yoiu* knife ; o«t it ia twehie 
pieces, and put them aonsa a stick in your hot storet 
with that side tlie paste is on \ippennMfe» and you- will 
find they will cnrl ; when they ara half curM, take 
them off very careftiily and pot them up endwmys in 
a ueve,jtfaat they may stand wp ; let them be in the hot 
slove one day> and you will find they will be all curled 
and then they are done. 

No. 44. Barierry Wafers, 

BARBERRY wiArsare made Aie suae way as your 
lemon wafers, cmly when you hof e wmAn as mavy leraMi 
wafers as you want, mix a HtHe eoehineal with the rest 
of the paste, to make it of a fine pink cohmr, coid if it 
^ouMbe too Mtk^ put aiittle powdered segar with 1^ 
and dry them the same way as the lemons. 
No. 45. Onnge Wafirm. 

TAKE six China oranges, aad rasp the rind of them 
very fine% cut them in hah^s, and aqmeese them into a 
little pan ; ts^e three lemons, and B<|ueow them in with 
the orange juiee and the rind ; add some pow^dered su^ 
gar sifited through a lawn uevey and make it of the same 
thidcness as you do lor your lemon wafers, and dry 
them tks^ same way with waiier paper. 

Not 46w JBtrgamot Wafer*. 

SNEEZE six lemons into a IHtte pan ; mix wit9h 
them some 'double refined powdered sog&r siiied 
through a lawn skve, so aa to make it of the same 
thickness as your lemon wafers ; add some eseeoee of 
bergamot, and mnc it well wkh one whke of an* egg % 
. beat it till you see it is very white ; if you find it groar 
too thick, squeeaoone more lemon in, and mind you do 
not make it too strong of the essence of berganMit^ fiir 



CONFECTIONFR. 31 

if yoo do it mil becomeiskterj and not pleasant to taste ; 
t&eh do them the sam« waf os your lemon walbrs. 
No. 47. Violet Wttfers. 

T AK£ six lemons and aqoeeze them in a little pan ; 
add some fine powdered sugar sifted through a lawn 
sieTey and mix it vith the jvice, till it is as thick as 
yo«r lemon wafers ; put some essence of violets, be 
careful to get yoor essence very strong ; put a Ikde blue 
colour, so as to make it a wry ime coksnr ; if you find 
it too thitiy put a little more sugar into it, then spread it 
on the wafw paper, as your lemon wafers. 
No. 48. F^9f^trmmt Wafers. 

TAKE six lemons, and squeeze them into a tittle 
pan ; add some very fine sugar and one white of an e^^ 
and beat it very well, so as to make it v«Ry ti^ite ; put 
•erne of the strangest ok of p^permint into it^ soas to 
make it strong enough to your palaee} then do them 
die same as your lemon wafers. 

No. 49. Mergnmoi JDrofis.- 

POUND and sift some sugar very fine ; squieezefbur 
or fivelemonsy and mix the juice and sugar together 
with a wooden spoon ; dn^ about twenty diwps of the 
essence of bei^amot into it^ and mix it well with yovir 
spoon ; stir it over your fire three or four minutes, drop 
them off your kmfe about the siae of tbe orange and le- 
mon drops, and make them as round as you can, let 
them stand till cold, and they wMl come elFweli ; they 
must be drc^ on writing paper. 

No. 50. Mhek Ctirrtmt Drafts. 

GET hatf a sieve of black curraaiSy and pot them in 
a pan ; mash them with your spadc^e, and put them 
overthefire;bringthem just toaboil and pass them 
liirou^h a sieVe over an earthen pan, put what jelly 
comes from them in an earthen pif^in, and put it over 
the fire and let it boit ibrtwo hours, stir it all the time at 
bottom with your spaddle, or else it will bum ; put in 
two pounds and a half of powdered sugar, mix it with the 
jam and stir it over the fire half an hour, drop it on pew* 
' «Br sheets or plates, in little drops from your knife, and 
put them in your hot stove, let them be there till you 
find that they are quite dry, and then take them off 
with your knife. 



32 THE COMPLETE 

"So. Sl.ChocoiateDrqfu. 

TAKE* one pound and a half of chocolate, out it so 
your pewter sheet or plate, and put it in the oven just 
to warm the chocolate ; then pat it into a copper stew** 
pan, with three quarters of a pound of powdered sugar> 
mi^ it weir over the fire, take it off, and roUit in pieces 
the size of small marbles, put them on white paper^ and 
.when they are all on, take the sh^ et of paper by each 
x:omer, and lift it up and down, so that the paper may 
touch the table each time, and by that means you will 
see the drops come quite fiat, .about the size of a six- 
pence, put some sugar nonpareils over them, and cover 
all that is on the paper, and then shake them off, and 
you will see all the clK)CQlate drops are covered with the 
sugar nonpareils ; let them stand till cxrid, and tliey will 
come off well, and then put them in your box papered. 
No. 52. Damson Drops. 

PUT some damsons in the oven to bake but not so 
much as to break, then skin and stone them, and puss 
them through a sieve ; sift some common loaf sugar 
through a lawn sieve, and mix with them, make it very 
thick, drop them off your knife on paper, put them in 
your stove to dry ; when the^ are quite dry, turn them 
on a sieve, and wet the outside of the paper, and they 
will come off eaily ; put them into the stove again till 
they are quite dry and hard, and then put them by in 
your papered box. 

No. 53. Seville Orange Drops, 

THIS is the same sort of prfste as your Seville orange 
paste cakes are made of, only drop them off your knife 
on your plate, tlien put them in your Lot stove* and when 
they are fit, take them off with a knife, turn them upside 
down on a sieve, and put them in the stove i^ain for 9 
day ; then paper your box and put them in. 
No. 54* l^emon Drops, 

SQUEEZE the juice of six lemons into a brown pann 
OF bason, take some double refined sugar, pound and 
uft it through a very fine lawn sieve ; mix it with the 
leiDon juice and make it so thick that you can haixily - 
stir it; put it into a copper stew pan, with a woodea 
spoon stir it over the fire five minutes ; then take it off 
«Dd drop them off the point of a kmfe>-of the san^ viae 



CONFECTIONEK. S3 

iHth the orange drops, aad let them fttaiid tin cold, and 
they will comeofTihe paper. 

M B, If you Wflk for tb^ cooling put them out in 
some cool place : they must be dropt on writing paper. 
No* 55. Orange JDrofis, 

RASP six China oranges very fine^ squeeze them in 
a small pan o^ bason with the rimi ; squeeze two lemons 
with them, wttbout rasping the rind, sift some powder* 
ed sugar and mix with the julee* make it of a fine thick- 
. ness, put it over the fire in a small stew pan, and with 
a wooden spoon turn it ior fire minutes, then take it oiF 
the fire* and drop them off the point of a knife, as round 
as yon can upoik whke paper about the size of a silver 
two pence ; let them stand till they are cold and they 
will comeoff ; then put them in your box. 
No. 56. Pepfiemdnt Drofia* 

SQUEEZE three or four lemons into a bason, and 
mix some powdered sugar with the juice, the sugar 
must be stilled through a lawn sieve ; make it of a propet 
thickness, and put some oil of peppermint in with it, 
as much as you tlunk proper to your palate ; make it of 
a proper thickness with sugar, put it in a saucepan and 
dry it over the fire, stirring it with a wooden spoon for 
five minutes, then drop them c^ a knife on your writing 
paper, the same size as the last receipt mentionB. imd 
let them stand till they are cold, and they wUl come off 
eauly, then put them in your papered box. 
No. 57. Violet Drofia 

SQUEEZE six lemons, mix with them some pow«* 
dered sugar sifted very fine; put into k two large spoons- 
ful of essence of violets and some blue colour, just 
ewmgh to make it of a fine blue, viz, a little Prussian 
falna^ pounded and mixed with a little gum water ; mix 
aU well together, and dry it over the fire» the same as 
thb othera, and drop them off a knife on paper the size 
of the others ; let them stand till cold, do not make it 
too thin, before you put it over the fire to dry ; when 
they are cold» put them in your papered box. 
No. 58. Barley Sugar Dro/i9. 

THESE are made the same way as we make the bar- 
ley sugar, only when boiled put the rind of one or two 
temoBB in raaped^ and djop the syrup on the marble \xi 



34 THE COMPLETE 

little round dro{>s as btg^ as a shilliog ; let them stand 
till cold) then put them up in papers, and as you take 
them off the marble have some powdered sugar at the 
side of 70U9 to put them in. 

No* 59. Lemon Prawhnga, 

TAKE some lemons, and peelJbe rind off in four 
quarters ; take all the white off from the inside of the 
rind ; cut the yellow rind in pieces, about one inch long* 
and about the tenth part of an inch wide ; have a pan of 
boiling syrup on the fire, and let it boil till it comes al- 
most to carimel, then put the prawlongs in, and stir them 
very much with a large wooden spoon till they are cold ; 
put them in a large sieve, and shake them just to let 
the sugar that does not stick to them go through the 
sieve ; lastly put them in your box, and keep them Ia 
a dry place* 

No. 60. Orange Pramhmga, 

TAKE China oranges, and peel the rind off in four 
quarters ; take all the white off from the inside of the 
rind ; cut. the yellow rind in pieces about one inch long, 
and about the tenth patt of an inch wide ; have a pan of 
boiling syrup on the fire, and let it boil till it comes al- 
most to a carimel ; put the prawlongs in, and stir them 
very much with a large wooden spoon till they ^re cold ; 
then put them in a lu'ge sieve, and shake them, just to 
let the sugar that does not stick to them go through the 
sieve ; put them in your box, and keep them in a dry 
place. 

No. 61. Pistachio Prawlongs f Red. 

TAKE some pistachio kemals, and have a preser- 
ving pan on the fire with syrup ; boil it till it comes al- 
most to carimel, put some cochineal in and the nuts ; 
and stir them ; when they come off the fire break them 
apart, let them have two coats of sugar, and see that they 
are of a fine colour, and do every thing according to the 
receipt of the bunit almonds. 

No. 63. Burnt PUbert Prawlongs^ Red, 

TAKE some Barcelona nuts and crack them, put the 
kemals into a copper pan or sheet, and put them in 
the oven to roast ; have a pan with syrup b<Mling, amt 
let it boil till it comes . almost to carimel ; put a little 
eochineal in a cup^ when the augar is boiiedy add it te 



CONFEGTIONER. 35 

it and the filberts^ and sdr them very much ivith alai^e 
Wooden spoony till yon find the sugar is got hard round 
them ; put them in a sieve^ and separate them which 
. stick together ; have another pan, with syrup in, and 
boil it as before and as high ; put the same quantity of 
cochineal in, and mix them as before, because the second 
time you do them, the finer the colour will be, then put 
them in your box. 

No. 63. Orange JFlower Prawlong9, 
TAKE orange flowers, pick the leaves asunder from 
each other, and see that they are quite dry ; have a pre- 
servmg pan with syrup on the fire and let it boil till it 
comes almost to carimel, then put your orange flowers 
in ; stir them well with a large spoon, continue the 
stirring till they are cold, then put them in a sieve, and 
sift them, till you see the powder of the sugar all gone, 
then put them in your box, but do not put them in a 
damp place. 

No. d4. SevUle Orange Jumldes. 
. . TAKE some Seville oranges, and cut the rind of 
them as thin as possible, and the breadth of a silver 
thi:ee pence, and as round as you can ; . put them on a 
sieve into your stove ; let them stand fqur or five 
houi*s ; put some syrup over the fire, and let it boil a 
quarter of an hour; put your jumbles in the syrup, and 
give them three or four boils ; drain your syrup from 
them, put them on a sieve in a hot stove, let iLem be 
there two or three days, till they are quite dry, then, 
put them in your box and keep them dry. 
No. 65. J^umt AbnontU^ Red* 
TAKE sotne of the finest Jordan almonds you can 
get, sift all the dust from them, have some syrup boil- 
ing in a pan, and let it boil till it conies almost to cari- 
mel, put half a cup full of cochineal in ; put the almonds 
in as fast as you can, and stir them till they are cold ; 
then put them in your sieve and break those that stick 
together, fram each other ; then have another pan of 
syrup boiling, the same as before, and when they are 
cold, pick them from each other, for they must always 
have the coats of sugar on them ; see that your cochin- 
eal is properly mixed, to make them of a fine colour, as 
you must put more cochineal in the last coat than you 
did in the first. 



36 THE COMPLETE 

No. 66. Jhtmt Mmond^j White, 

TAKE some of the finest Jordan almonds you can 
get, and sift all the dust from them ; then have some 
syrup boiling in apan, and let it boil till it comes al- 
most to carimel ; put yotu* almonds in and stir them 
tiU they are cold ; pick them in your sieve, break them 
that stick together, and then have another pan of synip 
boiling, the same as before, and give them two coats of 
sugar ; when done pick them from each other. 
IsTo. 67. Fiatacfdo Fravjlmigs^ White* 

TAKE some pistachio kemals, and have a preser- 
ving pan on the fire with syrup, and boil it till it comes 
almost to carimel ; put in the nuts, stir them till they 
are a)l covered with sugar, smd give them two coats> 
the same as burnt almonds, white. 

No. 68. Buna Filt^erts^ White, 

TAKE some Barcelona nuts and crack them ; put 
the kernels in a copper pan, or sheet, and pot them in 
the oven to roast : then have a pan with syrup boiling, 
and let it boil till it comes almost to carimel ; put your 
fifoerts in, stir them till they are all coveted with su* 
gar, and give them two coats as the barat almonds, 
irhite. 

No. 69. Merings in the form qf EggM, 

TAKE a half pint bason full of syrup, piit it in a 
small stew pan, and b(Hl it to what is called blow ; then 
take the whites of three eggs, put them in another 
co{^er pan. and whisk th^n very strong ; when your 
sugar is boiled, rub it against the sides of the pan with 
a table spoon ; when you see the sugar change, and all 
white, quickly mix the whites of eggs with'it, for if you 
are not quick your sugar will turn all to powder ; when 
you have mixed it as light as possible, put in the rind 
of one lemon, stir it as little as possible ; take a board 
about one foot wide, and eighteen inches long, and put 
one sheet of paper on it ; with your table, spoon drop 
your batter in the shape of half an egg, sift a little pow- 
dered sugar over them before you put them in the 
oven : let your oven be of a moderate hes^ watch 
them very close, let them rise, and jnst let the outside 
be a little hard but not brown, the in4de must be must ; 
t«ke them off with a knife, and put about half a tea 



confectioner: sr 

spoonful of rasbeny or strawberry jam in the middle of 
them ; then pot two of them together and they will be 
in the shape of an egg, but you must handle them very 
gently. 

No. 70. Almond Paste. 

TAKE half a pound of sweet and one dozen of bit- 
ter almonds, and pgund them so very fine that you can 
hardly perceive the least piece of almond in it ; use 
water to pound them with, but do not make them too 
wet, for if you do it will be a long time before you can 
get them dry again ; only just to keep them from oil- 
ing; take a small saucepan and a wooden spoon and put 
the paste in the saucepan, and half a pound of powder- 
ed sugar with it, mix it well together, before you put 
it on a slow fire, keep rubbing it with your wooden spoon 
in the pan, and be careful it does not burn, which it 
will if your spoon does not touch the bottom of the pan ; 
when you find the paste does not stick to the pan, and 
comes altogether, then it is done. M B. Put a lit- 
tle flour on your dresser, that it may not stick. 
^o, 7 \, Orgeat Paste. 

TAKE two pounds of sweet and one ounce of bitter 
almonds, pound them very fine with water ; have two 
quarts' syrup boiling, and let it boil till it is* come to 
1>low ; mix the almonds with it and stir it over the fire 
till it becomes very stiff, stir it all the time with aspad- 
dle or else it will burn at bottom ; when cold put it In 
your pots, and tie a bladder over the paper. 
No. 72. Orgeat Syru/u 

TAKE eight ounces of sweet and one ounce of bitter 
almonds, pound them very fine, that you cannot feel one 
piece of almond in it ; mix^one quart of water,winc mea- 
sure, with it ; strain it through a fine cloth ; put in one 
gill of orange flower water, have two quarts of boiling 
syrup, and let it boil till it is almost carimel ; mix what 
drains from the almonds with the syrup on the fire, and 
let it boil till it becomes a fine syrup ; put it into youc 
bottles whilst warm ; the next day cork them, and put 
bladders over the corks. 

No. 73. Lemon Syrufi. 

TAKE six lemons and rasp them very fine into aba- 
son ; squeeze the juice of one dozen of lemons to the 
D. 



58 THE COMPLETE 

rind, and mix it well together with a spoon ; take one 
quart of fine STrup, put it in a aaucepan and let it boil 
till it is ahnoftt carimel ; while your syrup is boiling, 
drain your lemon juice and rind through a fine sieve ; 
take care that you put the fuace to the syrup before it 
is catimeU or you will have your synip too high ; then. 
let it boil three or four minutes, aiKi observe that it is a 
fine syrup ; when done Uke it off; let it stand a tittle 
time, and put it in 3rour bottles while warm ; the next 
day cork them, and tie l^adders over the corks. 
No. 74. Orange Syrufi. 

TAKE eight China ranges, rasp them v^ fine in- 
to a bason ; squeease one dozen of China oranges and 
two lemons to the rind : mix it aM together wkh a spoon 
in the bason ; drtdn all the juiee through a fine lawn 
sieve ; take one quart of fine syrup, and boil It till it » 
almost carimel ; put the juice to the syrup, but mind 
you make it a fine syrup ; pm it into your bottle% cork 
ahd bladder them the next day* 

No. 75, Semite Orange Syn^^ 

TAKE one Seville orange, and rasp it very fine ; 
squeeze eight Seville oranges and one lemon with the 
rind ; mix it all well with the spoon ; take cme quart of 
fine syrup, and boil it till it is almost carimel ; straam 
your juice through a fine sieve, and mix it well with 
your syrup, mind you make it a fine syrup ; put in your 
bottles while a little warm ; cork and bladder tliem the 
next day. • 

No. re. Pine Afiple S^rup. 

DHAIN^he syrup from your pine apple chips, when 
you are going to dry them that are preserved, as yoa 
will see in your receipt of pine apple chips ; boil the 
syrup three or fi>ur times, and put it into your bottles 
while warm ; cork and bladder them the next day. 
No. 77. CafiU&dre Sifrup* • 

TAKE two quarts of fine syrup, and boil it to Mew ; 
boil twice or thrice two gills and a half of orange fiower 
water, skimmingit all the dme; put it into your bottles, 
and cork it up the next day ; put pieces of bladder over 
the corks, but mind that it is a fine syrUp before you 
take it off. 



CONFECTIONER. 39 

No. ra . Cwmini Jelfyy Med tmd. Wike. 

PUT your currants into a preserving pin, mash 
them and put tbem over the fire ; when they are aU 
broke and just upon the boiU taks your spaddk and put 
them into a, hair sieve ; let all the juice drain through a 
ikiinel hagttU it b q«itefine»if it is not fine enough the 
first ^wk aecMid tiraei put it through again ; tsJ^e as 
much sugar as you have got jelly, and let it boil alrnost 
to carimel, then put your jelly in> and let it boil ten 
minutesy skim it all the time ; then take it off, mind it 
is a fine jellyy and put it in your glasses. 

No* 79. Miupberry JeUi^ for Ices. 

PUT your raspberries in the preserving pan ; ^yash^ 
them well {with your ^paddle^ put them over the fire, 
stirring d>em all the time they are on ; when they are 
ready to boil take them off» and pass them through a 
hair sieve into a pao^ letting no seed go through ; put 
your jelly into another pan, and set it cm the fire, and 
let. h boil twenty minutes before you put the SAigar in, 
adrring it all tlus timeyor else it will burn at bottom ; 
put feurtettftfifunaes of sugar to every pound of jeiiy, let 
it boil tw^ity minutesi sdrring it all the time, when cold 
put it in a brown pan and pots ; sift a little powdered 
augar over it ; let it stand toe di^ and then coyer it up y 
this jelly is good to make ice cream with. 

No. 80. Jifi^ JeUtf^ to put aver %^Qwrfhdt or what 
you like^ 

TAKE one ^zen and a hidf of ntssetings, pare and 
cut them into pieces into a preserving pan, and take the 
cores &omthMi; cover them with water, and- let them 
boil quite *to a marmalade; put them in^ahair sieve, 
let tbem drain ; have as much syrup in another pan^ 
as there comes j^y through the sieve, and let the 
^rup boil tili it akaost comes to carimel, put the jelly 
So the syrup, and let it boil ten minutes ; then put it 
•vur your friut, let it be hot*. 

No. ai. BartehomJeUy. 

BOIL half a poimd of hMtshom shavings in a gallon 
^ water, till one third of the water is boiled away, then 
strain it off and let it stand till it is cold; melt it again, 
put in a little bit of orange and lemon peel just to colour 
kf afcxm.it wel^and add half a pint of Rhenish or white 



40 THE COMPLETE 

nioantain wine, the juke of one lemon and a half, lirith. 
half a poixiid of fine sugar ; taste It, mdif it is not sweet 
eaougfh to yodr palate, add more ; take* the whites of six 
eggs, whisk them well and ]Hit them in ; stir these to- 
gether, let it boil a Uttie, take it off, and add as much 
lemon jaice aa will sharpen it to your mind ; pour this 
into your jelly bag, first putting in the wlittes of eggs, 
and it will nm the clearer, if it does not come clear the 
fiirsttime, pour it into the bag again, and it wfH come 
clearer into your glasses ; let yem* bag hang near a fire 
to keep the jelly warm,tUlit aM runs off; you may know 
when the liquor will jelly, if when it is on the fire, you 
take out a little in a spoon and let it cool. 
No. 82. Cahfea F^t Jelly. 

BOIL two odyea feet in a gallon of water, till it comes 
to. two quarts,, strain it off and let it stsoid till cold, 
skim^iing off all the &t dean ; take the jelly up clesoi 
from the sediment ; put the jelly into a saucepan with 
a point of mountain wine, half a pound of powdered su- 
gar, and the juice of fmir large lemona ; whisk six or 
e^ht whites of eggs ; put them in-ar s aucepan , and stir 
them well with the jelly till it boils ; let it bwl a few min- 
utes; pour it into a large flannel bag, and it will mn 
throng pretty quick, pour it agaki till it runs clear ; 
get a large china bowl ready with two lemcm peels rasp- 
ed as thin as possible } let the jelly run into that bowl, 
and the peels give it both a fine amber colour, and also 
a fine fiavour ; lastly (Hit it into your glmws. 
No. 83. EOi^k CiMrwuJeMy, 

PUT your black currants imo a preserving pan over 
the fire ; masji them with your spaddie and ^M let them 
boil ; take them off and drain them through a very fine 
sieve ; boil them a quarter of an hour ; to every pound 
of currant jelly {Mit fourteen ooooes of powdered sugar ; 
boil them ten minutes ; put it in, your pots ; kt it stand 
two days before you cover it up, and put brandy papers 
over the jelly before youtie the papers. 

No. 84. Tomake JBimnonge* 

T AKE one (Mnt of milk and half a handful of p^^^ed 
isinglass ; put the isinglass into the milk and boil it^till 
all the isinglass is melted ; strain it through a sieve ; 
pound four ounces of sweety and six or aevefi bitter 



CONFECTIONER, %t 

ftlmOQdft very fine; put a lit^ spke m ye«r ittilk; whm 
you boUit, mix ycmrftknoods vrkh the milk to make it 
paU^abk rpaaa it thneagb a sieve agaia, pot it in your 
^ mould% aitd let it stand lil^ it i« coid- 
\ No. ^5. Goouderry JeUy. 

TAKE two quarts of green gooaberries; md put to 
them two quartaof w^er ; boil and mash them as tbey 
hoik until they are all to a mummy ; drain all the juice 
from tfaiem through a flannel bag; when it is all dram-^ 
«d) take as mueb morei»yrup9 as there is jelly from the 
goosberries; boil the syrup to blow ; put the gooshMry 
Xelly into it mmI boil it about a quarter of an liour> and. 
mind you make it a fine jelly • 

No. 86. Mu$Serry J^m*' 

PUT the mabeniesinto a large copper pan^ stir them^ 
well at the bottom of the pan with a large spaddle idbout 
three feet long ; mash the ra^nies as much as you 
can ; put them over^the fire and keep stirrkig them all 
the time $ wh^i you find they are almost rrady to boil, 
take them off; have a large hair sieve over soiother pan 
and pass the rasberries throu^ the sievp ; the hair of 
the sieve must be large enough to let all the seeds of 
tike rasberms through ; mind there is no pieces of ras- 
berries left ; put thMi oVer the fire and stir them with 
your paddle ; let the rasberries boil half an hour, stii^ 
ring them well from^ the bottom as they boil, to prevent 
them from burning ; pot in fourteen ounces of powder- 
ed sugar to every pound of rasberiies ; take them off 
the fire ; mix thmi well together and boil the sugar 
and the rasberries togeth^ half an hour ; sift some 
powdered sugaar over tko tops of Jthe pan Jx^rethey are 
covered. , 

No. 87. Afitkmjam. 

GET the' ripcdit i^neeta you caSy cut them ta pieces . 
and take the stones firom them ; put them into a krge 
eof^r pfeiierving pui, and mash them as much as you • 
ean ; put them over the fire to warm, mashing them« 
all the time ; pass them .through a cuHeader and keep . 
fbroing them with a small pestle ; when : they are all ' 
broke put them over the fire and just let them boll for 
ten nunulest stirring them nil . the time ; then ^ pt»t fif- • 
teen ounces 4if sugar, to every |peiind.ef.apricots;ietc 



42 THE COMPLETE 

them boH together half* soi liour, sdrriiig them aU the 
time with your spaddle that it may net bum i^ bottotti } 
when it i» boiled enough put h hite brown pans ; when 
cold put some apple jelly over the top of theniy and^ 
brandy papers over the jelly befoov you cover themi 
and let them stand two days before you put them by. 
No. S6. Strotifherry Jam. 
PICK the stalks fmm the stra^iiierrtes, and put them 
into a large copper preservhig pan ; mai^ them with 
yourspaddle to break them as much as you can ; put 
them over the iire^ make them quite hot^ almost to 
boil ; pass them through a very fine cullender ; boil the 
strawberries you have past twenty minutes, stirring 
them all the time with your spaddle ; weigh your straw- 
berries ; and s^w fifteen ounces of powdered sugar to 
every pound of strawberries ; put in the sugar and twil 
them together, stining them from tlie bottom, (else 
they will bum) for half an hour over the fire ; fill your 
pans, and f»ft some- powdered sugar on the tops of them 
before you put them by, and the next day put pajpers 
over them. 

No. 89. Barberry Jam. 
PICK your barberries from the stalks, ttid put them 
into an earthen pan, then into the oven to bake ; when 
baked pass them through a sieve with a large wooden 
spoon, taking care there are no skins of the barberries 
in it ; weigh the barberries, and to every two pounds of 
barberries allow two pounds and a half of powdered su- 
gar ; mix the sugar and the barberries together, and 
put it in your pans, covering it up ; set tt in a dry {4ace 
but when you have filled your pans with it, »ft a little 
powdered sugar over the tops of them. 
,. No. 90. Peach Jam. 
. . GET the ripest peaches, stone and bruise them ; put 
{hem in a preserving pan and let them boil ; maish them 
-very much, stirring them with your spttddle ; when 
they are soft pass them tlirough a large sieve ; pound 
some bitter almonds with powdered sugar takeep them 
from oiling ; put half an outice of them to a pound of 
jam ; put the jam and almonds over the fire and boil 
them a quarter of an hour ; add ten ounces of powder- 
ed sugar to every poi|Qd of jam ; tm t^ sugar and 



CONFECTIONER. 43 

the jaia togetbenbcHl k hidf an hour, stimng it all the 
time from the bottom^ etae it will bum ; when it is biol- 
ed enough^ put it into your pot or pans, and when cold 
put some apple jelly over it, and brandy paper over that. 
No. 91. JBhck Plum Jam. 

GET the ripest black muscle plums you can, cut 
them to pieces, stone them and put them into a large 
eopper pan ; bruise them as much as you can with your 
spaddle ; warm them over th^ fire till they are soft ; 
pass theo^ through a cullender with a pestle and get as 
much through s» you cap ; boil it one hour, stirring it 
from the bottom all the time, or else it will bum ; put 
six ounces of powdered sugar t# every pound of jam ;• 
take it off the fire and mix it well, put it over the fire 
ten minutes, then take it off and put it in brown pans sif- 
ting some powdered augar over it. 

No. 92. Rasberry Cakea. 

TAKE one pound of rasberry jam, one pound of pow- 
dered sugar, and mix them well together, with your 
spoon ; have some small pieces of tin made in round 
rings about the size of a half crown piece, and about a 
quarter of an inch deep, and have a piece of wire fixed 
to the ring to lay hold by ^ then have a pewter sheet or 
plate, put your ring on it and fill it with your jam, stroke 
it over the top of it with your knife, have a pin and pull 
it along all the inside of the ring aivd lift the ring up and 
the cakes will stick to the plate; put them into your 
stove, and kt them be there until the next day ; then 
take them off with your knife and turn them ; put them 
on a sieve and let them be until the next day, and when 
you find they are well dried, put them into your box. 
No. 93. SeviUe Orange Paste Cakea. 

CUT one dozen of Seville oranges into halves, and 
squeeze them into a brown pan ; put the peels into a 
pan of water and let them boil until they are quite soft; 
take them out and scoop all the inside out of them ; 
pound the peel^ in a mortar, then take one dozen and 
a half of liafge apples, pare and cut them into pieces into 
a preserving pan; add to them the juice of the oranges 
and water enough to cover the apples, and let themboil 
till they come to marmalade ;. pass it through a sieve 
with a spoon^ likewise ^sl^ the orange peels that are 



U THE COMPLETE 

pounded through a abve ; mUthea^es and ranges 
together ; have as much syrup in another preserving 
pan as you have got jam ; boil the sugar until it is nearly 
carimel ; mix it with your jam» stirring them well to- 
gether ; put it over the fire ten minutes, stirring it all 
the time with your spoon ; take your heart tin mouidS) 
or any shape you like, and place them on your pewter 
sheets or plates ; fill them with your paste, put thesa 
into a hot stove, and let them stand till you^ find the^ 
mould wUl come off easily, and without the jams nin- 
ning ; take them off and place them in a ueve and pot 
them in your stove imtil they are quite dry, then let 
them lay in your stove one day. 

No. 94. MUefruit Rock Candy. 

FIRST get a tin box one foot long and eight on nine 
inches wide, and six wires made jbo go into this tin ; the 
tin box must be made rather smaller at bottom than at 
top, let there be a hole at the bottom about the size of 
a common quart bottle cork* and when you put an|r. 
thing in put a cork in Uiis hole ; put a layer of paste 
knots at bottom and a layer of angelica knots ; put a wire 
between every layer to keep them hollow, go on with 
layers of any thing you hav« got that is well dried and 
hard ; have a pan of syrup and let it baU till it comes ta-. 
blow, then pour it over them in the tin box and let it- 
stand three hours in a very hot stove \ then pull out the- 
cork at bottom and put the box on one side for all the- 
syrup to run out ; let it stand half an hour in the atove^^ 
then take them out and you will find it will be candied^ 
all round them, then put them into your p^»eredbox* . 
No. 95. Roek Sugar of all Colour*^. • 

TAKE a pint of syrup, and put it into^ a pan and boir 
it almost to carimel ; have a. white of an egg in a little 
pot and mix a little powdered sugar with it, make it 
very thick with a tea-spoon ; take your syrup off the fire^ 
put the egg and sugar into the boiling synq»; stir it 
Hound very much in the pan with a l^rge spoon ; have 
a sieve papered, you must, be very quick about it or it 
will come over the pan ; pour it into your sieve, when 
fiold it will he hard, like a rock ; and when you want to^ 
vary the colour, mix that, colour you fancy with your. 
•ggs and sugar.. 



CONFECTIONER. 45 

No. 96. Barley Sugar, 

• TAKE a small stewpan, put some syrup into it and 
boil it till it comes to carimel ; rub a little butter on a 
maii^le stone just to greese it that it may not stick ; 
then take your saucepan by the handle and let the syrup 
i*un out of the spout along the stone in long sticks ; 
twist it (while it is hot) at each end and let it stand till 
cold. 

No. 9T. The way to make all sorts of Carraway Corn/its, 

• . TAKE some fine carraway seeds, sift all the dust 
from them, and have a large copper preserving pan 
about two feet wide and with two handles, and two pieces 
of iron made as a ring on each side, then you must 
have a pulley fixed to the beam and a cord with a hook 
to each end so as to fix it at each side of the pan to let 
the pan sling ; then have some fine starch as white as 
you can get and just soften it, boil some syrup a quarter 
of an hour and mix it with the starch ; t.ske some gum 
arable, put it into some water, then put that into another 
paa-and ivmke it just warm ; have an iron pot with char- 
coal fire under the large pan, but not too hot, only just 
enough to keep the pan warm ; have a large tub to put 
your pot of fire at bottom and your large pan must be 
on the top ; put the carraway seeds into your pan ; add 
a large ladle fiill of gum arable, rub them with your 
hands until you find they are all dry ; then put the ladle 
full of starch and syrup, and do the same over your pan 
of fire until you find they are all dry ; put the gum only 
.three or four times to them at first, then the starch and 
sugar, but boil your syrup more as you find they come 
to coat with it and not so much starch ; when you have 
dried them seven or eight times put them into your 
sieve ; put them into the stove, do them the next day, 
aod so for six or seven days successively* 

No. 98. Cardamom Comfits. - 
GET your cardamoms at the chemists, and they will 
be in a shell ; put them in your oven just to dry the skins, 
and they will break ; pick all the seeds from them, put 
the seeds into your large comfit pan and have a fire 
under the same as for others; mix your gum, starch 
and syrup, and do them the same about the pan with 
your hands. 



46 THE COMPLETE 

No. 99. Carimd Croemtt. 

TAKE ^rour copper crocont top and foutler k idt ofer, 
then have some syrup boiling in a stew pan ; let it bml 
until it comes to carioael, take the pan off, ^ a 
three pronged Ibrk into the ajrup or from the spout of 
the pan | and you will see strings hang to the fork ; 
move the fork to and fro over the crocoint undl you 
quite cover it thick, have yeur little dish of sweetmeats 
imder; take this crocont ofip the mould, and when caU 
put it over the sweetmeats and handle it very Hghdy. 
No. 100. WMfiJbra Trifle, 

TAKE one junt of cream, put it in a £peexing pot, 
put^the pot into a little ice in an ice-paU, and whisk 
your cream with a whisk; mix- your wine and nnd of 
an orange in another bason, and the juice of an orange 
and sugar according to your palate ; put your cream 
in and mix it, then pour all the liquor into a dish that 
your trifle is to be in and pour the froth of the creana 
over it, and put what your fancy likes to garnish It 
'with; add different coloured sugar noopaceils and 
some small biscuit c^ different sorts. 
No. 101. Everlasting JVhi/iaylabtib to put into ghs9e9* 

TAKE five half pints of thick cream, half a pint of 
Rhenish wine, half a pint of sack, and the juice of two 
large Seville oranges ; rasp in the yelbw rind of three 
lemons, and a pound of double refined sugar well 
pounded and sifted ; mix all together with a spocmful of 
orange flower water, beat it well together with a wbidc 
half an hour, then with a spoon fill your glasses. This 
will keep above a week, it is much the better for being 
made the day before it is used. 

No. 103. Floating Uhnd^ a pretty Ushjbr the ndddie 
of a tadley at a Second Course^ orfwra Supper, 

TAKE a soup dish according to the uze and quan- 
tity you would wish to make, but a deep glass dish is 
the best, put it on a china dish ; first take a quart of 
the thickest cream you can get, nmke it sweet with fine 
powdered sugar ; pour in a g^U of fine mountuoi and 
rasp the yellow lind of lemon in ; whisk your eream 
very strong as carefully as you can ; pour the >thin from 
the froth into a dish.; take some Naples biscuits and 
cut them as thin as possible^ lay a layer of then asligbt 



CONFECTIONER. 4/ 

as possible on the cream, then a layer of currant jelly, 
again a layer of Naples biscuits, over 'that put your 
crwm» that you saved ; put as much as you can make 
the dish hold, without running over ; garnish the out- 
side with &weetniea!ts said what else you like. 
No. 103. Iceing Jbr a Rich Cake. 

TAKE six whites of eggs and whisk them very 
strong ; then have a pint of syrup in a small stewpan, 
and let the syrup boil until it comes to blow through 
your skimmer ; work it about the pan with a spoon, 
when it is all white and is a great deal thicker, mix the 
whites of eggs together, make it very thick, put it over 
your cakes and put them into your stove ; let them dry, 
then put another coat over them ; make it as sn\ooth 
as you possibly can and let it dry in your stove. 
No. 104. To Ciarify Sugar for Sweetmeats, 

TAKE a large deep copper pan and break two eggs 
into i6, then whisk it as you'pour the pan half full of 
clear water, so as to make it like soap suds ; put two 
large loaves of sugar into it, and put it over the fire ; 
take a large skimmer, sdr it till it is all melted, if you 
stir it longer your syrup will not be clear ;* be careful 
it does not boil over into the fire, for it is dangerous, as 
it may set the house on fire ; when you find it begins 
to boil and the scum rises, take it off the fire, but do 
not stir it till it has stood half an hour ; then you will 
find that all the scum will come to the top ; take a 
large skimmer and take it off clean ; put it on the 
fire, let it boil twenty minutes, skimming it all the 
time ; strain it throu^ a flannel bag very clean ; put 
it into a pan or a large stone jar, and use it as you want 
it to your fruits. 

No. lOS. Cedtaty Essence, 
GET the Cedraties at the Italian warehouses, rasp 
the rind of them all round very fine ; put it in a large 
marble morter, and allow for every quarter of a pound, 
two poimds of powdered sugar ; mix it well with a 
large spaddle till you find it is all of a colour and that 
^e lind is well mixed ; put it into a stone jar, and 
squeeze it down as hard as you can; put a bladder 
over the paper you cover it with and tie it over quite 
tight ; put it by, and in one month it will be fit to use. 



49 THE COMPLETE 

No* 106. Lemon Eaaence, 

RASP your4emons all round very thin, and allow for 
every quarter of a pound of rind one pound of sugar ; 
mix it the very same way you do the essence of ced- 
raties, put it into a stone jar, and bladder it up the same 
way. 

No- 107. Orange Essence. 

TAKE one dozen and a half of china oranges, rasp 
fhem all round and squeeze six of them in with the 
rind ; mix it well in a bason^ let three pints of syvup 
boil about twenty minutes; mix the orange rind and 
juice, and just give it a boil or two, and when cold put 
it in bottles and cork it up. 

No. 108. Lenumade, . 

RASP two lemons and squeeze six, put to them 
three gills of syrup and the rest water ; taste it, and if 
it is not to your palate, alter and mend it till it is right ; 
then strain it through a larwn sieve, and put it in your 
glasses for use* 

No. 109. Orangeade. . 

TAKE eight China oranges and rasp four of them ; 
squeeze the eight and three lemons to the rind ; put 
about two gills of synip into it and the rest water ; taste 
it, and if you find it not rich enough put some syrup to 
it, and squeeze more oranges in according to your pal- 
ate f and if not sour enough, squeeze in one more le- 
mon ; strain it through a lawn sieve, and it is fit for 
use. 

No. no. Currant Water made of Jelly, 

TAKE two large spoonsful of curr^t jelly, and mix 
it with a little warm water, then put one gill of syrup, 
squeeze two or three lemons in and let the rest be wa- 
ter ; taste and make it to your palate, putting a little 
cochineal in to make it of a fine colour ; strain it through 
a sieve, and it is fit for use* 

No. 111. Fresh Currant Water. 

TAKE a quart of fresh currants and squeeze them 
through a sieve with your hand ; put two large wooden ^ 
spoonsful of powdered sugar and one lemon in it, and 
the rest water; make^ it to your palate; strain it 
through a sieve and it is fit lor use. 



CONFECTIONER. 49 

No, 1 12. Cedraty Water. 
TAKE a large wooden spoonful of the essence of 
cedraty^ put it in a bas(m» squeeze three lemons; add 
three gills of syrup and all the rest water ; make it to 
your palate) mind tiiat-all the essence is melted ; and if 
It is not rich enough put more syrupki ; pass-it through 
your lawn sieve* and it is fit for use 

No. 113. Baaderry Water of Rasberry Jam* 
TAKE two lai?ge spoonsful of jajii ; put it into a ba- 
,4ion ; squeeze six lemons in, and let the rest be water ; 
put a little cochineal to colour it, put in a little syrup to 
make it palatable ; pass^ it through your sieve, and be 
4»r^ulail the seeds are clean out, it is then fit for use. 
No. 114. Fresh Rasberry Water, 
TAKE one pint of fresh rasberries, and pass them 
through a sieve with a wooden spoon; put two iai;ge 
spoonsful of powdered sugar in, squeeze one lemon in, 
and let the rest be water ; make it palatable, and put a 
little cochineal in ta colour it; pass it through a sieve 
and it is fit for use. 

No. U5. Bergamot Water, 
SQUEEZE six lemons, and to that add three gills of 
syrup, and let the rest be water ; mind you make it 
rich before you put the essence in ; when it is to yout 
.Caste, put a tea spoonful of essence of bergamot in ; 
pass it through a sieve, and it is fit for use. 
No. 116. Apricot Water, 
TAKE two large spoonsful of apricot jam, and one 
f^ill of syrup ; squeeze four lemons, put a handful of 
bitter almonds pounded and a little powdered sugar in 
;the jam, so as to make it have the same bitter taste as 
.the kemsdls of the apricots ; let the rest be water, and 
make it palat£d>le; pass it through a very fine lawn sieve> 
and it is fit for use« 

No, 1 \7» Strawberry Water of Strawberry Jam, 
TAKE two large spoonsful of strawberry jam, 
squeeze three lemons, and add one gill of syrup and the 
rest water to make it palatable, pass it through a lawn 
sieve, ai^d it is fit for use. 

No. 118. Fresh Strawberry Water, 
TAKE one pottle of strawberries and pick the stalks 
from th^m; pass them through a sieve with your 

£ 



50 THE COMPLETE 

wooden spoon ; and put in two large spoonsful of pow- 
dered sugar ; squeeze one lemon and let the rest be 
water; make it palatable, pass it through a. sieve, and 
it is fit for use. 

No. 119. Barberry Water. 

TAKE two large spoonsful of barberry jam, and put 
them in a bason ; squeeze two lemons, put in one gill 
of syrup and the rest water ; put a little cochineal in, 
"and if you find it not rich enough, put a little more sy- 
rup, make it palatable, pass it through a sieve, and it is 
fit for use. 

No. 120. Peach Water, 

TAKE two large spoonsful of peach jam in a bason ; 
put one handful of bitter almonds with a little powder- 
ed sugar; squeeze ftSQ lemons, put in two gills of sy- 
rup and let the rest be water ; make it palatable, pass 
it through a sieve with a spoon, and it is fit for use. 
No. 121. Pear Water. 

GET some large pears', rasp them into a bason ; if 
your pears are large four will be sufficient, if small, six 
or eight ; squeeze six lemons, put in four gills of syrup 
and let the rest be water; make it rich. and palatable^ 
pass it through a lawn sieve, and it is fit for use* 
No. 122. Cherry Water, 

TAKE one pound of Kentish cherries, pound thctn 
in a mortar so as to break the kernels of them ; take 
the cherries and kernels, put them into a bason and add 
four gills of syrup ; squeeze four lemons in, and let the 
rest be water ; make it palatable, pass it through a 
sieve, and it is fit for use. 

No. 123. Orgeat. 

Take six ounces of sweet and one dozen bitter al- 
monds ; pound them very fine, so that you cannot feel 
one piece of almond ; mix one quart of water with thein» 
strain it through a lawn sieve, and put one gill of orange- 
flower water to it, and it i^ fit for use. 



CONFECTIONER. 5J 



ICE CREAMS OF ALL SORTS. 



No. 124. Barberry Ice Cream, 

TAKE a large wcxxlen spoonful of barberry jam and 
pot into a bason with one pint of cream ; squeeze one 
lemon in, mix it well ; add a little cochineal to colour 
it ; put it into your freezing pot and cover it over ; put 
the freezing pot into a pail and some ice all round the 
pot ; throw a good deal of salt on the ice in the pail) 
turning the pot round for ten minutes ; then open your 
pot, and scrape it ftoxa the sides, cover it up again, 
and keep turning it for some time, till your cream is 
like buttei^, and as thick ; put it in your moulds, put 
them into a pail and cover it with ice and salt three 
quarters of an hour, till you find the water is come to 
the top of the pail ; do not be sparing of salt, for if you 
do not use enough it will not freeze ; dip your mould 
into water, and turn it out on your plate to send to 
table. 

No. 125. Raaberry Ice Cream, 

TAKE a large spoonful of rasberry jam ; put it into 
a bason and squeeze one lemon in ; add a pint of cream 
and a little cochineal to colour it ; pass it through a 
sieve into a bason ; put it into your freezing pot, and 
do as above directed in your barberry ice cream* 
No. 126. Strawberry Ice Cream, 

TAKE a large spoonful of strawberry jam ; add a 
pint of cream and a little cochineal ; put it into your ~ 
freezing pot, and follow the first directions of your ras^ 
berry cream. 

No. 127. Apricot Ice Cream, 

TAKE one spoonful of apricot jam ; put it into a ba- 
son and squeeze one lemon in ; take a handful of bitter 
almonds pounded with a little powdered sugar, put them, 
all to a pint of cream and put it into your freezing pot. 



j^2 THE COMPLETE 

No. 128. Pine Jpple Ice Cream. 

TAKE one gill and a half of pine apple syrup, put 
it into a bason and squeeze in one lemon and a half; 
add one pint of ct*eam, make it palatable, th^i put it 
into your freezing pot and freeze it till it is as thick as 
butter ; if you would have it in* the shape of a pine, take 
the shape and fill it ; then lay half a sheet of brown pa- 
per over the mould before you put it into the ice ; and 
let it remain some time, and be careful no water gets 
into the shape. 

No. 129. Currant Ice Cream. 

TAKE oB&large spoonful and a half of currant ' jelly ^ 
put it into a bason with half a gill of syrup ; squeeze sa 
oite lemon aaida half ; add a pint of xu*eam and a little 
cochinealj then pass it through a>sievevaiid freeze it «» 
the others. 

No. 130. PUtachialce Cream. 

BREAK siaD eggs into a|ian, and beat them well with 
a wooden spoon : put in a pint of cream, beat that well 
with the eggs, aiid putin the rind of a lemon, one gill 
and a half oi syrupt and a, little eimiamon and niace# 
boil it and stir it all the timey else it wUI burn, let it 
boil till you find it grows thick and oomes to a curd \ 
then take it off; mix four ounces of pistachio nuts 
blanched and pounded very fine in a mortar with the 
custard ; pass it through a sieve, and put it into your 
freezing pot. 

No. 131. Biscuit Ice Cream. 

BREAK aiysi eggs into a stewpan and beat them well 
with a wooden spoon ; add one pint of cream, the rind 
of one lemon^ two gills of sy rap and a little spice; boil 
it till you find it just thicketis, stirring it all the time ; 
crumble some Naples biseuits-and ratafia biscuits ; pass 
them through a sieve with the other ingredients^ and 
put it in your ft^ezing pot* 

No» 132. Piain Ice Cream, 

PUT one pint of cream into a freezing pot in a little* 
ice, whisk it about till it hangs about the whisk, then take 
the whisk out and put as mucli powdered sugar as will 
lay aa half a cit>wn ; stir and scrape it about With your 
ice scraper till you find it all frozen ; put it into your 
loould, and put-tfaem in your ieeto take the sha^. i 



CONFECTIONER. »9 

No. 133. Brown Bread Ice Cream. 

Do the same \vith a pint of cream as in the plain ice 
cream, only when you have frozen it, rasptwo handfuls 
of brown bread and put it in before you put it into your 
moulds. 

No. 134. Royal Ice Cream, 

TAKE the yolks often eggs and two whole eggs, beat 
them up well with your spoon ; then take the rind of 
one lemon, two gills of syrup, one pint of cream, a little 
»pice, and a little orange flower water ; mix them well 
and put them over the fire, stirring them all the time 
with your spoon ; when ypu find it grows thick take it 
off, and pass it through a sieve ; put it into a freezing 
pot, freeze it, and take a little citron, and lemon and or^^ 
ange peel with a few pistachio nuts blanched ; cut them 
^1 and mix them with your ice before you put them 
In your moulds. 

No. 135. Ginger Ice Cream.^ 

TAKE four ounces of ginger preserved, pound it and 
put it into a bason, with two gills of syrup, a lemon 
squeezed, and one pint of cream ; then freeze it. 
No. 136. Fresh Strawberry Ice Cream. 

TAKE one pint of fresh strawberries, pick the stalks 
from them and pass them through a sieve with your 
wooden spoon ; put four ounces of powdered sugar to 
them, and one pint of cream, freeze it, &c. 

No» 137. Fresh Raaberry Ice Cream. 

TAKE one pint of rasberries, pass them through pt 
sieve ; put five ounces of powdered sugar and a pint of 
cream, then freeze it* 

^o. IZH^, Fresh Afiricot Ice Cream.^ 

TAKE four ounces of the ripest apricots you can 
get, pass them through a sieve with your wooden spoon, 
with four ounces of powdered sugar and one pint of 
cream> and freeze it. 

No. 139. Coffee Ice Cream. 

TAKE one ounce of coffee whole, and put it in a 
stewpan with one pint of cream \ put it over the fire 
and let it simmer and boil ten menutes or a quarter <^ 
an hour ; di^n all the coffee from it, break four eggs 
into a pan and add one gill and a half of syrup; t^at 
them well up together^ put the cream that comes frofl» 
3E 



54 THE COMPLETE 

the coffee into it ; give it a boi!) sdr it all the time, pass 
it through th« sieve and freeae it. 

No. 140. CHocolaie Ice Cream, 
TAKE one ounce and abidf of chooc^ateand wam 
it over the fire ; take six eggs, one gill of syrup, and 
one pint of cream ; pnt it over the fire till it begins to 
thicken; mix the cboeotee in^ pass it through asleve 
and freeze it* * 

No* 141. IS&viUe Orem^ lee Creami 
RASP the rind of one Sevilti^ orange into a bason, 
and squeeee -three, and two lemons^ add two gills of 
syrup and one pint of cream; mix it well, pass it 
through a sieve, and. freeze it. 

No. 142. l,rmon lee Cream,- 
RASP one lemon and squeeze three or ^Mir^ add 
two gy Is of syrup and one pint of cream ; mix it ail to- 
gether, pass it through a sieve, and freeze it* 
No. 43. China Orange Jee Cream. 
RASP one China orangey squeeze four^ and one le- 
mon and a htff ; put in two gills of syrup and one pint 
of cream ; pass it through a sieve and freeze it. 
No. 144. Burnt IWert lee Cream. 
ROAST some Barcel^fia nuts well in the oven, and 
pound them a little with some cream ; put four egga 
into a stew pan, wiih one pint of cream and two gills 
of syrup ; boil it till it grows thtck, pass it through a 
sieve and freeze it ; then mix your filberts with it be- 
fore you put it in your moulds* 

No. 145. Burnt Ite Cream. 
TAKE six eggs, one gill of syrup, and one pint of 
oream ; boil it over the fire until it becomes thick ; then 
have two ounces of powdered sugar in another^ stewpan, 
and put it over the fire ; let it bum tin all melts, 
stirring it aH tbe4ime, and when you see it is burnt of 
a fine brown, pour the other in, mix it quickly^ pass k 
through a sieve and freeze it. 

No* 146. MUiefnLk Ite Cream. 

TAKE two gills of syrup, squeeze three lemons, 

put in a pint of cream, and freeze it ; cut some lemon 

peel, a little orange peel, and a little angeli&a^) into smalt 

pieces^ when it is ftx>zen ready to^ put into the moulds^ 



CONFECTIONER. ^ 

put in your si^eetmeats with a little cochineal : mix 
your ingredients well, but not the cochineal, as it must 
appear only here and there a little red, then put it into 
thp mould. 

No. 147. Fteah CurrarU' Ite Cream*, ■ 

TAKE one pint of currants, pass them through a 
^eve with five ounces of powdered sugar and a pint of 
cream, then freeze it.* 

No. 148. Cedraty Ice Cream, 

TAKE two large spoonsful of essence of cedraty, 
put it into a bason, squeeze in three lemons and add 
one pint of cream ; observe that all the essence is melt* 
ed, then pass it through a sieve and freeze it. . 
No. 149. Burnt Almond Ice Cream, 

THIS ice is done in the same manner as the filbert 
ice cream. 

No. 150. Parmdaan Cheese Ice Cream, 

TAKE six eggs, half a pint of syrup,'and a pint of 
cream ; put them into a stewpan and boil them until it 
begins to thicken ; then rasp three ounces of Parma^ 
san cheese, mix and pass them through a sieve, and 
freeze it. 

No. 151. Damson Ice Cream, 

TAKE three ounces of preserved damsons, pound 
them and break the stones of them, put them into a ba- 
son, squeeze in two lemons, and a pint df cream ; press 
them through a sieve, and freeze it. 

No. 152. Pmnello Ice Cream, 

PUT five eggs into a pan with twa gills of syrup 
and one pint of cream ; boil it over the fire till it comes 
thick, then put as much prunello spice as will make it 
palatable ; then pass it through a sieve and freeze it. 
No. 153. Peach Ice Cream, 

TAKE one large spoonful of peach jam, add one 
handful of bitter almonds pounded with sugar, squeeze 
one or two lemons, and put in a pint of cream ; thea 
pass it through a sieve and freeze it. 

No. 154. Black Currant Ice Cream. 

TAKE one large spoonful of black currant jelly, 
squeeze one lemon in, and add a pint of cream ; pas» 
it and freeze it. 



SS THE COMPLETE 

No. 155. Cherry Ice Cream. 
TAKE half a pound of preserved cherries, pound 
them stones and aJl ; put them into a bason vith one 
gill of syrup, squeeze in one lemon and add a pint of 
cream ; pass it through a sieve, and freeze iu 



CONFECTIONER* $r 



WATER .ICES OF ALL SORTS. 



No. 156. Barberry Wkiter Ice, 

TAKE a large spoonful of barberry jam, ptit it into 
a bason, squeeze in one lemon, add a pint of water and 
a little cochineal to colour it ; pass it through a siere* 
and freeze it ; be very careful that it freezes thick and 
smooth like butter before you put it in your moulds. 
No. 157. Rasberry Water Ice. 

TAKE a large spoonful of rasberry jelly or jam > 
put into a bason, squeeze in one leniCMi, add a pint of 
water and a little cochineal, and pass it through a sieve; 
if you make it roith jam, be careful not to let any of 
the seeds get into your ice ; let it freeze rich like bat* 
ter, which if it does not you must add a little more sy- 
rup, and then freeze it. 

No. 158. Strawberry Water- Ice, 

TAKE a large spoonful of strawberry jam, put it in-» 
to your bason ; squeeze in one lemon, add a pint of 
water and a little cochineal, aiid if- it does not freeze 
rich enough, add a little more syrup and freeze it. 
No. 159. Apricot Water Ice. 

TAKE a large spoonful of apricot jam, put it into a 
bason, squeeze one lemon -in, add a pint of water, and 
put to them one handful of bitter almonds* pounded finey 
with a little sugar ; pass them through a sieve, and 
freeze it rich and thick. 

No. 160. FineAfifile Water Ice. 

TAKE two gills of pine apple syrup, squeeze two 
lemons in, add a point of water ; it must be rich and 
freeze thick ; if you want to have it to the shape of a 
pine, close it well and cover your shape with a sheet of 
paper before you put it in the ice ; let it lie for one hour 
oovered with the ice and saltbe£e>re yott turn it out^ 



$S THE COMPLETE 

No. 161. Chocolate ^ater Ice, 

TAKE three ounces of chocolate, warm it and mix 
half a gill of syrup with a pint of water ; mix it well 
and freeze it thick. 

No. 162. Seville Oranffe Water Ice. 

TAKE the rind of two Seville oranges .off very fine 
and thin ; squeeze them into a bason with one lemon ; 
add two gills of syrup and half a pint of water ; pass 
them through a sieve and freeze them rich. 
No. 163. Ckina Orange Water Ice, 

RASP one China orange, squeeze in three and one 
lemon, put in two gills of syrup and half a pint of wa* 
ter ; pass it, and freeze it rich and thick. 
No. 164. Lemon Water Ice, 

RASP one lemon, squeeze three, and put in two gills 
of syrup and half a pint of water ; pass it and freeze it 
rich. 

No. 165. Punch Water Ice, 

PARE the rind very thin off one Seville orange, you 
are not to rasp it ; put your parings into a bason> 
squeeze in two oranges and one lemon, i»it in two gills 
of syrup and half a pint of water, mix it and pass it ;. 
freeze it rich ; when frozen and mixed well with your 
spoon, put as much rum in as you think will make it 
agreeable to the palate, but when you put the rum .in^ 
take the freezing pot out of the ice while you mix it, 
ivhich must be well done before you put it into the 
moulds. 

No. 166. Peach Water Ice, 

TAKE a large spoonful of peach jam,put it into a bs- 
son with a large handful of bitter almonds pounded fine» 
one gill of syrup, and one pint of water \ pass it and 
freeze it rich. 

No. 167. Currant Water Ice. 

TAKE a large spoonful and a half of currant jelly, 
put it into a bason, squeeze two lemons, add half a gill 
of syrup and a pint of water ; then freeze it rich. 
No. 168. Fre^h Currant Water Ice, 

TAKE a pint of currants, pass them through a sieve^ 
put in four ounces of powdered sugar and one pint o£ 
wat^F ; pass it and freeze it nch. 



CONFECTIONER. S9 

.No. 169. Fresh RoBberry Water Ice, 

TAKE half a pottle of rasberries, pass them through 
« sieve) then put m five ounces of powdered sugar and 
a pint of water^ pass it and freeze itj rich. 
No. iro. DamaorC Water Ice. 

TAKE a quarter of a pound .of preserved damsons 
and break the stones^ put them into a bason, squeeze 
in one lemon, add almost a pint of water and half a gill 
of syrup ; pass it through a sieve and freeze it rich. 
No. in. Prunello Water Ice. 

PUT two gills of syrup into a bason ; squeeze in 
three lemons, half a pint of wa£er, and as much pru- 
nello spice as will make it palatable; press it and 
freeze it rich. 

No. 173. Bhck Currant Water Ice. 

TAKE one large spoonful of black currant jelly, put 
it into a bason ; squeeze in two lemons, and add a gill 
of syrup and hsdf a pint of water ; pass it and freeze it 
rich. 

No. 173. Grafie Water Ice. 

TAKE two handsful of elder flowers, put them into 
a pot, boil a pint of water and pour it over them, cover 
them close ; then take two gills of syrup and the juice 
of three lemons ; drain all the water from the flowers, 
add it to the rest, make it palatable, pass it and freeze 
it ; when it is frozen, put it in the shape of a bunch of 
grapes, close it well and cover the mould with half a 
sheet of paper ; then put it into the ice and salt for one 
hour before you turn it out. 

No. 174. Cherry Water Ice. 

TAKE a quarter of a pound of ipreserved cherries 
sweet ; pound them in a morter just to break the stones ; 
then put them into your bason, squeeze in two lemons, 
add on gill of syrup, a pint of water and a little cochi- 
neal ; mix them well together ; pass them, and freeze 
it rich. 

No. 175. Pear Water Ice. 

SQUEEZE three lemons into a bason, add two gills 
of syrup, and a half a pint of water ; rasp four large 
French pears into it ; mix them w?ll and make it pala- 
table, pass it through a lawn sieve and freeze it rich i 



60 THE COMPLETE 

put it into the shape of the pear, and coirer the moulds 
with paper before you put them in the ice. 
No. 176. mUefrvii Water Ice. 

SQUEEZE three lemons into « bason^ add two gills 
of synip and halfa pint of water; freeze it rich, then 
tXLt sonnte preserved oraage and lemon peel with a little 
angelica in small pieces ; put them with the ice, which 
must be like butter before* they are put in; pass it 
through a sieve before you freeze it, or put your sweet- 
meats in, then put a little cochineal in, but you are not 
to mix that much, only to be a little red here and diere, 
as if to run in veins in the ice, but observe you do this 
before you put it into thq moulds. 

No. 177. Bergamot Water Ice* 

SQUEEZE three lemons into a bason, add two gills 
of syrup, kaif a pint of water and half a tea spoonful of 
■essence of bergamot, pass it loid freeze it rich before 
you put it into your moulds. 

^o, \^H. Cedraty Water Ice. 

TAKE four ounces of essence of cedraty, put it into 
«a bason, squeeze in three lemons, and add two gills of 
'«y rup, and half a pint of water ; thea pass it through a 
sieve, freeze it rich, and if you would have it in the 
shape of the cedraty, after you have filled your mouM, 
close it well and cover it with halfa sheet of brown pa- 
per before you put it in the ice. 

No. 179. Freak Strawberry Water Ice. 
. TAKE half a pottle of strawberries, pick the stalks 
from them, pass them through a sieve, put in five 
ounces of powdered sugar and one pint of water ; pass 
it and freeze it rich^ if it does not freeze rich put some 
«syrup in. 



. CONFECTIONER. «1 



FRUITS PRESERVED IN BRANDY. 



No. 180, Afiricots, 
GET the best apricots you can of the palest colour 
and clear from spots, but not too ripe ; put them in a 
pan of water, cover them over with paper and put them 
over a very slow fire ; let them simmer till you find 
they are soft , then take them out ; put them in a large 
table cloth four or five double, and cover them up close; 
then have some of the best French brandy, it most not 
be coloured, but clear like water ; and put ten ounces 
of powdered sug^ar to every quart of brandy ; let the 
sugar melt, then put your apricots into a glass jar,* fill 
it up with your brandy and cover it up very close with 
leather and bladder, now and then keep filling up your 
jar with brandy, for the apricots suck up a good deal ; 
if you do not cover them close the apricots will lose 
their colour. 

No. 181. Peaches, 
GET some of the finest peaches, free from all spot 
colour, what is called the white heart peach j they come 
in the last in season ; scald them in a stewpan of water, ^ 
take them out when soft, and put them in a large table* 
cloth four or five double ; put ten ounces of powdered 
sugar to every quart of French brandy, white, let your 
sugar melt and stir^t well ; put your peaches into a 
glass jar, and pour your brandy over them ; cover them 
very c^ose with leather and bladder, and observe to 
keep your jar filled with brandy. N. B. Mix your 
brandy and sugar befoi-e you scald your peaches. 
No. 1 82 . Mor^ lla Cherries, 
GET some of the finest Morella cherries; cut the 
stalks and leaves froni them about half an inch long and 
put tnem in your giiiss jar ; put ten ounces of powder- 
ed sugar to every quart of brandy ; when the sugar is 
F 



62 THE COMPLETE 

dis8ol7ed pour it over your cherries, co7er it close with 
the leather and bladder, and keep filling it up. 
No. 183. Mogul Plums. 
TAKE some preserved Mogul plums and drain all 
the syrup from them, put them into your jar, put five 
ounces of sugar to every quart of brandy ; when the 
sugar is melted pour it over your plums, and cover it 
close as before directed. 

No. 184. Green Gages. 
TAKE some preserved g^en gages, and use the 
sanie method as your last receipt directs. 

No. 185. Green Orange Plums. , 
TAKE some preserved green orange plums and use 
the same method as before <tirected. 
No. 186. Grafiea. 
TAKE some preserved grapes, and use the same 
method as before directed. 



CONFECTIONER. 45 



PRESERVED SWEETMEATS, WET. 



No. 187. Green 4firicotSj wet, * 

TAKE green apricots when they are the size of a 
small walnuty put them in a bag with a great deal of salt, 
and shake them in it just for the saU to take off the 
silkiness of the skin ; then take them out, put them 
into a large pan with water, place them over a slow fire 
just to. scald them, and when you find they grow soft, 
then have a flat preserving pan with a very thin syrup 
boiling in it ; but before you put them in, drain the apri- 
cots well from the water through a sieve ; when tho 
syrup boils, put them in, but do not put too many in the 
pan at a time, only -let the syrup cover the apricots; 
but observe you do not crowd them in the pan ; boil your 
syrup about a quarter of an hour, then take them out, 
put them in a flat earthen pan and cover them with a 
sheet of paper, that no dust can get in ; the next day 
boil th^m half an hour, and if you find they look well, 
drain the syrup from them through a sieve ; boil the 
syrup twenty minutes, then put the apricots in again and 
just give them two or three boils ; then put them in the 
flat pan and cover them close with paper, minding to 
keep them covered with syrup as it boils ; when your 
syrup is of a fine thickness, and the apricots look well, 
put them in your pots, and when cold put a little apple 
jelly over them to cover the tops. 

No 188. jifiricota rtfi€r wet. 
' FIRST take a large knife, split the apricots in half, 
and with a small knife peel them fine ; have a preserv- 
ing pan on the fire with water boiling ; put some of the 
apricots in ; when you find they grow soft, have two 
l»sons of cold water on each hand and put the softest by 
themselves, as those that are broken will spoil the rest ; 
Jiave a preserving pan on the fire with thin syrup boil- 



64 THE COMPLETfe 

ing, drain all the water from them, and put the hardest 
ones in and let them boil ten minutes, then put them in 
a flat earthen .pan, and cover them with paper; then 
have another preserving pan on the fire with syrup boil- 
ing j put the soft ones in and just give them a boil or 
two, then put them in the same pan as the others and 
cover them ; the next day boil the hard ones five mi- 
nutes, and put them in the same pan again, but drain 
the syrup from the soft ones ; boil it and pour it on them 
when hot; do the same four or five days successively, 
and keep them covered with the syrup, then put them 
in pots, and pour a little apple jelly over the top, and be 
cureful the pots are not in the least damp, for that will 
make them work and grow sour. 

No 189. Preserved Pme Jfifile Chifrs^ vwf. 

TAKE the top and stalk ot the pine apple, chip off 
the ends of the outsides and the bottoms of them ; cut 
the pine apples in slices about the thickness of the fifth 
part of an inch ; take an earthen deep pan, and one 
pound of sugar ; lay some 3Ugar at the bottom of the 
pan, then a layer of the pieces of pine, but not one over 
the other : then put another layer of sugar pretty deep, 
then another of pine, then another of sugar pretty deep, 
and so on till your pan is almost full y at the top put ^ 
good deal of sugar pretty deep ; cover them up with 
paper and let them stand till you seethe sugar is^lmost 
melted ; let them and the syrup boil hahf an hour, then 
put themia the same pan again, the next day give them 
another boil, and so continue eight days, then drain all 
the syrup from them entirely ; if the synip is tooclod* 
den, just dip the chips in a little water ; then wipe them 
and lay them on your sieve to dry ; mind the sieve is 
quite dry ; as you put them into the stove, dust a little 
very fine powdered sugar through a cloth bag over them, 
put them in the stove and let them remain there till you 
think they will not give nor be sticky ; then put them 
in your drawers or box with clean white paper about 
them 

No. 190. Angelica^ *iuet, 

CUT the stalks of the angelica about a foot long, put 
them in a pan of water and boil them till they are quite 
5oft ; then string the outsides of them, and put them 



CONFECTIONER. 65 

into a tub of cold water, till tliey ate all done ; drain all 
the water off, lay them in a long earthen pan till it is 
three parts full, pour some boiling syrup over them and 
,fiU the pan with it, always keeping the angelica covered 
'with syrup, and let it stand till next day ; there must 
be a hole in the side of the pan towards the bottom, that 
you may always drain the syrup from the angelica with- 
out disturbing it ; boil the syrup, put it to the angelica 
for eight or nine days successively, and let it remain in 
the same pan for use. 

No. 191. Barberries in sfirigsy wet 

CUT the sides of the barberries open,take the stones 
out of them, tie six bunches to a piece of wood about an 
inch long and about the sixth part of an inch wide, wind 
them on with red thread ; put your barbaries in bunches 
on the sieve, and have a preserving pan with sugar, and 
boil the syrup half an hour ; put the barberries in the 
syrup, boil them and skim them with paper, give six or 
seven boils, always get the scum clean off; put them 
in a flat earthen pan and cover them with paper ; those 
tied on a stick are called bunches, but what you would 
wish in sprigs must not be tied to a stick, you may put 
them in pots as other sweetmeats. 

No. 192. Rasberriea tvhole^ wet. 

TAKE some of the finest rasbeiTies you can get, 
then with a large pin prick the la:rgest and dryest ; just 
cover the bottom of the sieve with them ; put a pre- 
serving pan on the fire with syrup in it, boil the syrup 
ten minutes, then put the rasberries in, let them boil, 
and skim tbem as they boil with whitish brown paper ; 
ten or twelve boils are sufficient, and of all things ob- 
serve that the pots are quite dry before you put your 
rasberries in, for if they are the least damp it will spoil 
your fruit ; the next day cover them with apple jelly, 
and let them stand in the pots two days before . you tie 
them up. 

No. 193. Currants in bunchea whole^ wet» 

TAKE some of the best cuirants you €an get ; stone 
them with a pin and cut them as little as you possibly 
can ; take a small piece of stick with thread, and lay 
them on a sieve ; have your preserving pan on the fire 
with your syrup in it, boil the syrup about twenty mi- 
F 2 



6(5 THE COMPLETE 

nutefioo a brisk fire ; put jour currants in bunches into 
tke syrup ; only cover the bottom of the pan with them, 
nor put two many in ; let them have five or six boilsy 
and take the scum off, with paper ; put them in your, 
potSywhen cold j)ut some apple jelly over the top of them/ 
and mind your pots are very dry as be&re directed. 
No. 194. Cedratiea wh(de^ wei, 

GET the cedraties at the Italian warehouse ; mskke a 
hole through the middle of them at the thick end ; put 
them in a large preserving pan with water and boil them 
one hour and a half, then drain all the wateir fvom them, 
set them up end ways to drain the water out of the 
ends ; boil some syrup in a large preservmg pan twenty 
minutes then put the cedraties into a large earthen deep 
pan, pour the syrup over them and let them stand two 
clays before you meddle with them, then boil them with 
syrup half an hour ; (do not let them be too soft) put 
them into the pan and cover them with paper ; the next 
day drain the syrup from them, boil and pour it on them 
again, and repeat it so for ten days, always keeping 
them covered with syrup ; those done in quarters are 
done the same way oniy cut long ways before you first 
boil them ; when done put them in your pots, and when 
cold cover them with apple jelly ; take care your pots, 
fcirc dry. 

No. 195. Cherries siaeet 9 in syrufi. 

LET your cherries be the best Kentish vow can get, 
stone them, put them into ^ tub with boiling hot syrup- 
over them, and cover them till the next day : then boil 
and put them into tlie tub again, the next day boil theoi. 
softly twenty minutes and put them into the tub again^ 
continue this for eight days ; then make a thick syrup 
for them, put them into it, then in an earthen pan or 
pot ; put some apple jelly over the tops and brandy pa- 
pers over them ; if you want to dry sweet cherries^ put 
them into your preserving pan, warm them and drain. 
them well from the syrup through a siev^ ; put them 
iuto the hot stove and shift the sieve every day till they 
are dry ; then put them into your boxes. Whole cher- 
ries are preserved the same way as thos<> only you leave 
the stones in and the stalks on them. 



CONFECTIONED. , 6/ 

No. I96i CfUrriet not aweety 'met or dry. 

LET your cherries be the best Kentish you can ^etj 
and stone them in this manner ; cut a quiil as if you 
were going to make a tooth pick, only make the end of 
it round, tsd&e bold of the cherry, thrust the quill down 
dode to the t<^of the cherry, holding the stalk at the 
same time that you pull, then the stone will come out 
without tearing the cherry to pieces, which otherwise 
it wottkl do ; when you have done so to^all the cherries^. 
put them Iffto a tuby and put a kr^ quantity of pow** 
dered sug^p over them, so as to put layers of sugar and 
layers of cherries^iil the tub is full ; let them stand two 
or three days till you iind all the sugar is melted^ 
amongst the juice of the cherries ; then let them have- 
one or two boils, pour them into the tvb again, and let 
them stand till the next day ; repeat the same four or 
five days successively ; the last time pour what you want 
to dry on a sieve, and when thefy are ail well drained, 
have sieves enough to put them tin, then put them on- 
the bottom of a sieve only just to cover the bottom, let 
your stove be very hot ; put them in, changing them 
every day, and turn the cherries, they will dry the bet* 
^r, then paper your box, and put them in ; those you 
would wish wet, put them in pots as before directed. 
No. 1^7. Cucumbers in Qirkinsj taet, 

LET your cucumbers be clear, and free from all; 
spots, put them in salt and water, let them stand two 
or three days, then take them out and drain them well ; 
put them in another paii of water, scald them, put them 
in a tub, and let them stand all night ; then drain the 
water from them, put them into a pan of water, and to 
every twowcjuarts of water put half a pint of syrup ; jpot 
them in, axhid let them boil over a slow fire five minutes ; 
}>ut them in the tub again, and let them stand till the 
next day ; then boil them agaui, drain the synip from 
them, and have a clean pan with the syrup of a proper 
thickness i let it boil, put the cucumbers into it,, and let 
them boil gendy for a quarter ef an hour ; then put 
Ihem into a fiat brown pan, and cover them ; let them 
stand two days, then drain the syrup from them ; boil 
the syrup one minute, and pour it over them ; the next 
day boil them and the syrup together three or four mi- 



68 tHE COMPLETE 

nutes and repeat the same for five days ; then prut them 
in the pots or in a cream pan^ and cover them up^ 

M B. Always observe to let your preserved frtitts 
stand two or three days before you put them up. 
No. 198. Con^twt Golden Pipfdns^ wet. 

LET your golden pippins be the largest and soundest 
you can get ; pare them very fine and clean, bore a 
hole through them large enough to put your little fin* 
ger through ; put some very fine syrup rather thin in 
a preserving pan, peel some lemons very fine, and put 
the peel in the syrup, which must be thinner than any 
thin syrup in the former ingredients ; put your apples 
in and let them simmer over the fire very gently three 
quarters of an hour ; then take them off and when cold 
they are done, then put them in your comfiter for table. 

•M B» This is a quick way when you want a comport 
in a hurry. 

No. 199. Comport French Peare^ ttfhttej wet. 

LET your pears be large mid sound ; cut them into 
quarters long ways ; put them in a pan of water, and 
over the fire winch must be sdow ; let them simmer 
three quarters of an hour very slowly ; then put lemon 
peel in a pan df thin syrup ; drain all the water from 
them ; when your syrup boils, put them in and give 
them five or six boils; then put them in an earthen flat 
|>an, and the next day boil them again, till you think the 
syrup lis got well into them, then keep them into the 
brown pan for use. 

No. 200. Comfiort French Pears red, wet. 
: LET your pears be large and sound ; pare and cut 
them in quarters ; prepare them as the former receipt, 
only put cochineal in to colour them, while thay are sim- 
mering over the fire ; put in by degrees, till you see 
it becomes a fine red. 

No. 301. Damaons whoie^ wet. 

GET some of the largest and best damsons, and prick 
them with a pin at each end, boiling syrup on a brisk 
fire in your preserving pan for a quarter of an hour ; 
then put your damsons in, and boil them twenty mi- 
nutes ; put them in an earthen pan, cover them up with 
paper, and skim them as they boil quite clean ; put 
them in your pan i the next day strain the syrup from 



CONFECTIONER. 60 

them, and let it have a good boil ; then put the damsons 
into the pots, and when cold put softie ap^e jeUy oVer 
them. 

No^ 203. Grapen in hmche^^ f9et, 

STONE yoor grapes with a large pin, have a large 
preserving pan with ^vater in it, put an ounce of scdt in 
with the water when cold, and put a sheet of paper 
over them in the water ; let them simmer over a slow 
fire about hatf an hour; let them stand till cold, put 
them into a brown pan or a little tub with some water 
till the next day, then draw all the water from them $ 
have some thin syrup boiling on the fire, put the grapes 
into it, and when they are in, let them boil five minutes ; ' 
then take them off, put them into an earthen pan, and 
cover them with paper ; the next day drain the syrup 
from- them, and boil the syrup a quarter of an hour ; 
then put the grapes in five minutes ; repeat the same 
next day, till* the syrup comes to a proper thickness, 
and the grapes look well, but be careful to have syrup 
enough to cover them. 

No. 203. Gooiberries in the firm of hofi8^ wet, 

GET the finest green goosbenies you can, cut them 
into quarters, and take the seeds out of them ; take a 
needle and white thread, make a knot at the end, take 
hold of one of the goosberries that you have cut, and 
push the needle through the end of the goosberry that 
is split, take another and do the same, and make it go 
part of it into the other goosberry, and do so till you h^ye 
got eight on ; then you will find they will be in the form 
of a green hop r when you have finished your hop, 
fasten the ends of the thread ; put them into a pan of 
water, scald them, and put them into a tub with their 
own liquor, that you have scalded them in ; let them lie 
in the tub, three or four days, till they begin to grow 
sour and ferment ; then put them into fresh water over 
the fire titf they become hot, but not to boil, observe 
to put a little sugar into the water, and they will green ; 
drain all that away from the hops and lay the hops regu* 
larly in an earthen pan ; boil some th^i syrup and put 
over them ; give them a boil once a day, tilt you think 
fhej are done, and keep them in an earthen pan^ till you^ 
want to dry them^ 



70 THE COMPLETE 

No. 204. Green g^oBberrie^^ wei. 

LET youF gooaberries be the largest and finest yoa 
can getf put them over the fire to scald, but do not let 
them boil, put them into a tub and let them staoid three 
days ; then drain all the liquor from them, put them 
into another pan vith water, and a little syrup with the 
water ; let them be over the fire till they warm, but not 
to boil, only just to come green ; the next day strain all 
the liquor from them, put the goosberies kito an earthen 
pan, and pour some thin syrup over them boiling hot ; 
repeat it once a day for six days ; make the syrup come 
thicker by degrees, and then put them into the pots. 
No. 205. Lemons wAole^ tvet, 

GET some large clear lemons that have no spots, 
carve the outside of them with a knife as you tike ; 
scoop a hole at the stalk c^ them, that you may put 
your little finger in, that the syrup may penetrate the 
inside ; have a large preserving pan with water, put the 
lemons into the water, cover them with paper, and let 
them boil gently, till you find them grow tender ; then 
have some thin syrup, boiling on the fire, drsdn all the 
water from the lemons quite dry ; put the lemons into 
a small tub, pour the syrup over them, and cover them 
with paper ; let them stand till the next day, then drain 
the syriip £n>m^ the lemcms, and boil it a quarter of an 
hour ; then put the lemons into the tub again, pour the 
syrup over them, and let them stand till the next day ; 
then boil the lemons and syrup together for twenty mi* 
Butes ; put them into the tub again, keep the lemons 
covered with syrup, and if you &id it shrink, put more 
syrup to it the uext day ; repeat the same boiling, and 
when you find the syrup has penetrated the lemons, and 
they are dear, take a clean large preserving pan with 
more syrupy and boil it till it is pretty thick ; drain the 
old syrup from the lemons, put them into the tub, pour 
the other syrup that is boiliiig over them, and let them 
stand three or four days before you look at them, then, 
if you find they' have not sucked in the syrup enough, 
you may drain ^the syrup from them, 9^d give them 
another boil for a quarter of an hour ; pour it boiiing^ 
over then^9 and always keep them in a fi^t earthen pan. 



CONFECTIONER. 7i 

No. 206. Seville Oranges^ whde^ wet, . 
. TAKE some of the largest Seville oraoiges you can 

' get, and very clear from ail spots ; carve the outsides 
of them in flowers or according to your own fancy ; bore 
a hole at the stalk end of them, about the size of half 
your little finger ; put them into cold water, for where 

•. you have carved them the rind will turn black ; let them 
be in cold water aboiit four or five hours ; then put them 
on the fire in a large copper pso), and boil them slowly 
about four hours ; then take them out of the water and 
turn them with the end that has the hole undermost 
upon a sieve, «that all the water may drain, out of them ; 
let some thin syrup boil a quarter of an hour in another 
pan, put the oranges in and boil. them ten minutes; 
then put them in a small tub, pour the syrup over them 
and cover them with p^per ; the next day boil the oran* 
ges and syrup together a quarter of an hour on a brisk 
fire; put themintothetUb again and let them stand till 
next day ; then drain the syrup from them and boil it 
twenty minutes, observing to ke^ them well covered 
in the syrup ; continually boiling your syrup, and put- 
ting it over the oranges for six or eight days till you find 
they are tender, and have taken the syrup ; let them 
stand five or six days in the syrup, give the synip five 
or six bdls again, and pour it over the oranges in a large 
flat earthen pan, in which keep them for use. 
No, 207* Ornnge fieeU^ wet. 
GET some of the finest Seville orange peels clean 
from spots ; put them into a copper pan, if .you have a 
great number to do, and boil them two hours ; scrape 
tiie inside of them clean, that none of the pitch re* 
main ; place the peels one in another round a small 
tub, tUl the tub is almost full ; pour a great deal of syrup 
over them till they are covered ; let them stand two or 

< three days before you touch them ; make a hole at the 
bottom •oif the tub, drain the syrup from the peels, boil 
and pour it over them ; let them stand for two days, 
then boil youf syrup again, and let them stand for four 
or five days running ; then drain all the syrup from them, 
and pour it when boiling on them again ;. let them re- 
nudn in the tub till you are going to candy them, then 



72 CO»CPI.ETE. 

take them out^ and WBsh them when ^n want them* 

JV. 3, iJkmerre to keep them well caveped with 
s)rrup. 

No. ^08. Onmge chi/t9y wt. 

TAKE aome Seville oruige peels, cut a hung or 
piece of cork round, ao that it will go into the orange ; 
with a sharp pen-knife pare them round, which we call 
turning, wkd cut your chips aliout l^e third part of an 
inch hMig ; and nearly the same thickness ; put them 
into a pan of water, and boil them gently over the fire 
one hour and a half; have another pun with syrup boit* 
ing ; drain alt the water from the chips, put them hito 
the syrup and boil them for a quarter of an hour ; then 
put them into a large earthen pan, or small tub, cover 
tfeem, and let them stand tiU next day ; then b^ them 
again with the syrup a quarter of an hour; put them 
into the tub again, repeat t4iis for four or. five times ; 
then put them into a large pan, not into pots, cover 
them well with syrup, and keep them for use. 
No. 300. Lemon cfdft^^ Vfet* 

TAKE some fine lemon peeks, pare off all the rind 
with a knife, cut it all into pieces, if you can about a 
quarter "l^ an inch wide ; put them into a cabbage net, 
and into a preserving pan with water ; boH them quite 
tender, then have another pan wiih -syrup boiling, and 
when the chips we boiled enough in the water, take 
them out of the net and put them into the boiling 
syrup. 

AC B, Let them be well drained before you put them 
into the syrup, and let them boil a quarter of an hour ; 
then put them into a large earthen pan and iet them 
stand tiH next day ; then drain the syrup from them 
and boil it ten minutes, and pour it over them ; cover 
them till the next day, then boil the chips and syrup to- 
gether twenty minutes and put them into the tub again ; 
keep them covered with the syrup, and wlien you think 
it is well soaked in them, boil them all together; put 
them into your tub till you want to candy.. 
No. 210. Lemon petls^ wet. 

TAKE the larpjest and clearest lemon peels you can 
get, and throw into a large preserving pan with water ; 
let them boil till you finck them quite soft and tender, then 



CONFECTIONER. 73 

49k^ tb^mone at i^ tiine.out of Uie Vttter, s^ with » 
UbVp appop take ^ the pith out of the inside clean 
from them; thix>w them |nto a tub of cold water as 
you do them ; let them stand in the water four or five 
dayS) then pgt your lemon peels one within the other^ 
mi place the^ taua^ a large deep tub ; have a large 
preserving pan c^ syrup boiling over the fire, pour 
some ai the syrup over them^ and cover the tub; let 
^hem stand two days and bore a hole at the bottom of 
the tub to let the syrup out ; boil the syrup three or 
four miimteS) pour it over the peels again and keep 
them driiways weU covered with syrup : repeat boiling 
the syrup in this manner for e^ht or ten days ; then 
keep them in the syrup in the tub till you want to can- 
.dy them* 

No. 311. PearSiWct. 

GET some baking pears that arS'of a very hard na- 
ture^ put the pears in a large preserving pan with va- 
ster ; let them sUnmer ov^er the fire t^ll you find tfaem 
.rather soft ; take them out of the boiling water with a 
^skimmer, and put them into a bason with cold water ; 
pare them in this manner, first cut off the end of the 
pear, then hold ^«e stalk end in your hand^ and bring 
your knife down the skin straight, so as to make the skin 
come ofi* in five pieces all round the pear ; throw them 
into another bason with cold water ; have the preserv- 
ing pan with ^rup in it, let the syrup boil ten min- 
utes ; then put the pears in ; but first drain the water 
well from them, let them boil in the syrup again about 
ten minutes, skim it with paper, boil them in the same 
manner aif, days, draining the syrup off the paper every 
time till the syrup is of a fine thickness ; let them re- 
main in tUis syrup till you want to candy them. 
No* 312. Green Orwige Flumsj wet, 

LET your plums be the soundest and best you can 
^et, .prick them with a fork and put them into cold wa- 
ter ; have a very thin syrup, so thin as to be hardly- 
sweet ; .scald them in it and let them have but one gen- 
tle boil ; put them in an earthen pan, let them stand till 
the next day, then drain all the syrup from them, boil 
and pour it over them; repeat the same eight or nine 
4ay s wpceisiyely^ thisn let them have a |;enti6 boil and 
G 



W THE COMPLETE 

put them in your pots, observe that your pots jire liot 
the least damp ; put some apple jelly over them when 
cold ; let it be three days before you tie them up, and 
keep them and all other sweetmeats in a dry place. 
No. 313. Mogul Plums, toet, 

TAKE the largest mogul plums you can get with 
clear skins, prick them with a fork about tenor a dozen 
times, mostly about the stalk ; throw them into cold 
water, otherwise they will turn black where you have 
;pricked them, put them over the fire just to Scald 
them, have a pan half full of boiling syrup, drain all the 
plums from the water through a deve and put them 
jnto the syrup, do not put too many in, only just to 
cover the bottom of the pan ; boil the plums and the 
syrup ten minutes, then put them into a flat earthen 
pan and cover them with paper ; the next day drain the 
syrup from them through a sieve, let the syrup boil, 
put the plums in it and let them boil together ; put 
them into the same pan and repeat the same five or six 
days ; it is best to keep these plumbs in a flat earthen 
pan, till you want to dry any of them'J 

No. 214. Pine J/ifilea^ whole, i»et, 

TAKE the pine apple, chip off all the small pieces of 
leaves from the bottom of every pine, take the top and 
«talk, and have a preservfaig pan on the fire with wa- 
ter, and to every two quarts of water put half a pint of 
syrup, so as to make it very fine thin syrup, and only 
just sweet ; be sure that it boils before you put the 
puies in, and let the^ simmer an hour over the fire ; the 
next day let them boil gently another hour, take them 
off and cover them carefully, the next day let them boil 
gently about half an hour ; put more syrup as thick as 
you use to other fruits, the next day drain this syrup off 
«nd boil it, repeating the same seven or eight days ; 
then put them into an earthen pan, and cover them up 
very cai^efully from any dust, and be very careful that 
your pans are vei7 dry. 

No. 225. A small Yellow Plum wet, 

LET your plums be clear from spots, run a fork in 
once at each end and no more, you must not have 
the plums too ripe, put them in water as you prick , 
them ; boil a pan of syrup ten minutes i drain all the 



CONFECTIONER. 75 

water from the plums and ptit them in the sfmp ; boil 
and skim them, repeat the same four or five days ; then 
put them carefully into pots, mind do not break them 
for they are very tender, and take care your pots are very 
dry ; let them stand two days before you put them by ; 
cut small pieces of writing paper, dip them in brandy 
and put it over your fruit in every pot, this should be 
done to all fruits, it must be put close that no air can get 
in, then another paper over that ; tie them up« 
M, 2 1 6. Strawberries^ %vhole^ met* 

OBSEHVE to get the strawberries for this purpose 
in very dry weather, that if it had not rained for three 
or four days, pick the largest and finest you can get ; put 
some syrup into a preserving pan, boil it over a brisk fire 
for half an hour and put your strawberries in while it 
boils, do not put many into the pan only one strawberry 
deep ; let them boil twenty minutes and take off all the 
scum with paper very carefully ; if you find f they are 
like to breaks take them off immediately and put them 
into your pots, when cold put apple jelly over, and be 
very careful that your pots are not the least damp. 
No. 217. Afiricoi Cfdfia^ wet. 

TAKE the chips that you cut off the apricots, and 
some powdered sugar ; take a brown pan, lay a layer of 
chips and then a layer of sugar over them, and so on till 
your pan is full ; let them stand till the sugat is all 
melted, boil them and put them into the pan again ; boil 
them the next day, and so repeat boiling them ten or 
eleven days successively ; then have proper synip and 
put them in a brown pan till you want to dry them. 
No. 218. Green Gagesy wet 

LET your green gages be very sound, prick them 
with a fork six or seven times or more about the stalks ; 
put them into cold water, or else they will turn black ; 
staid them, and have another preserving pan with boil- 
ing syrup ; drain the water from the gages and put them 
into a deep earthen pan ; place them regularly and pour 
the boiling syrup over them ; let them stand till next 
day, then drain all the syrup from them ; boil it again, 
and put it over them ; repeat so for seven or eight days^ 
then take another flat earthen pan, drain the syrup 



re THE COMPLETE 

from^eniy place your gages in this pan ; boil some 
fresh syrup rorhatfanhoiirandpouf it over them, cover 
them up till you want them ; you may put some into 
pots if you like. 



CONFECTIONER. 77 



DRIED FRUITS. 



No. 219. Dantions Dried* 

TAKE damsons that you have preserved, drain all 
the syrup from them, cover the bottoms of the sieves 
and put them into your stoves which must be hot) 
change the sieves every day till they ,are dry, and as 
you change the sieves turn your damsons^ and when 
they are not sticky nor likely to give, take them out and 
paper a box and put them In, and lay a paper between 
every layer of damsons 

No. 230. Mogul Fluma^ dried. 

TAKE mogul plums that you have preserved, drain 
all the syrup from them, wash them in a bason of water 
and lay them on a sieve ; put them into the stove which 
must be pretty hot, turn them next day on another sieve^ 
and let them stand in the stove two or tliree days ; then 
put them in your box papered, and lay a sheet of papejr 
between every layer of plums. 

No. 221. Green Orange PIutm^ dried. 

Take green orange plumbs that you have preserved, 
9rain all the syrup from them, wash them in a bason of 
water, put them on sieves and into the stove; change 
the sieves and turn them every day on clean sieves ; 
put them in your box, and use the same care and me- 
thod as before directed. 

No. 222. Green Gage»y dried. 

TAKE preserved green gages, and put them over 
the fire to warm, drain all the syrup from them, put 
them on the sieves and into the stove ; change them 
every day and turn them, else they will stick ; let them 
be in three days, and then put them in the boxes as be- 
fore directed. 

No. 223. Pears candied f or dried. 

TAKE the pears out of the syrup, and put them on 
-wires or a large sieve, drain all the syrup from them, 
G2 



n THE COMPLETE 

wash them in warm water to get the synip off them, 
drain them quite dry f then have a pan of symp on the 
foe hmlingy and let it boil till it comes to blow, take the 
pan off the fire, and take a spoon and rub it on the sides 
of the pan till you see it turn white ; then put your 
pears in, and take them out^ put them on a wire, and 
let them stand till cold, then put them in your box. 
Ne.334. CAerri99y ^meet, dried. 

TAKE your cherries and syrup, warm them- oyer 
the fire, drain all the syrup from them, ][iut them on the 
back of the sieires just to cover the bottoms ; piittheni 
into the store the next day, change the sieve, put them 
in the stove again, and let them stand three or four 
days in die stove ; let them be well diied before you 
put them in your boxes, for if they are not, they will 
grow sour and be full of maggots ; paper them as be* 
fore directed. 

• So. ^25. Cherries^ not tv^et^ dried. 

TAKE the cherries that you preserved not sweet, 
warm them, put them on your sieves and let all the 
juice run from them 5 then while hot put them on the 
sieves, change them every day and let them be in the 
stove four or five days, afterwards move them about in 
the sieves till they are thoroughly dry, then paper your 
boxes as before directed. 

No. 226. jffiria>t CM/ts^ dried'. 

'TAKE your apricot chips, put them over the fire to 
warm, and dndn all the syrup from them ; then make 
the chips the size you please, put them on the sieve as 
you make them, dust some sugar over them through a 
bag, and put them in the stove ; let them be there two 
days, changing the sieves once or they will stick ; when 
dry, paper and put them in your boxes. 

No. 227. Orange or Lemon Chi/iSy candied er dried, 

TAKE your preserved orange or lemon chips, wash 
them from the syrup with warm water, and the syrup 
you drain from them boil till it comes to blow ; put the 
chips in and rub the sugar at the sides with the spoon all 
round till you see the syrup all candy ; then take the 
chips out with two forks, and put them on a wire for the 
su^ar to drain off ; let them stand till cold, and then 
put Uiem in your boxes as before. 



CONFECTIONER. t» 

No, 33d. AngeUea Knofy drkd. 

Take ttaiks of preserved aageUea, take them but 
of your pan, wash all the ayrup^m them with warm 
water, cut them in slips about a quarter of an inch k>iig» 
and the length of the angelica when first preserved ; 
double then into whatever form you like, and if you can, 
tie them into the form of a true lover's knot ; put them 
on sieves and into the stove, let them stand till they are 
quite (fo*y and ready to be candied. 

No. 329. Barberries m bum Aesy dried, 

TAKE some preserved barberry bunches, put them 
over the fire to warm, then on a si^re, let all the syrup 
drain well from them, then have your sieves ready and 
put them cm ; dust some powdered sugar over them 
through a bag ; put them in the stove and let them re^ 
main there till they are quite dry, changing your sieves 
and turning the bunches ; they must stand in the stove 
four days ; paper your box, and put them in as before 
directed. 

JV*. B. The above method, does for currants. 
No. 230, Letrim PeeUy candied <M^ dried. 

TAKE some preserved lemon peels, wash them in 
warm water and put them on a sieve to drain ; boil some 
syrup on the fire till it comes to blow, and put yduf 
peels in ; as soon as they are covered with sugar take 
them out again, put them on wires for all the sugar to 
drop through ; then let them stand till cold and put 
them in your boxes. 

JV. B; Do orange peel in the same manner. 
No. 231. Cucumbers^ dried* 

TAKE some preserved cucumbers, wash all the 
syrup from them, put them on your sieves to drain, 
then into your stove to dry, one day is enough for them 
to dry ; afterwards put them in your boxes as before di- 
rected. 

No. 232. Green Afiricots^ dried 

TAKE some presetted green apricots, wash them in 
a little warm water, put them on your sieves into a hot 
stove, changing your sieves every day ; let them re» 
main two or three days in the stove until they are well 
dried, then put them into your boxes prepared, and 
cover them as before directed. 



00 THE COMPLETE 

No. tSd. .^rkotnfuU gr&w^ {fried, 

TAKE your apricou full growD that you have pre« 
ienred wboie, or those ia halves ; wash them m wana 
water, put them on ueves ref^arly^ not to let them 
touch one another ; put thetn into a hot stove for two or 
^ree days, changing the sieves every day ; when dry 
put them into your boxes. 

No. 834. Grapes in hunches^ dried. 

TAKE some preserved grapes, wash them with 
warm water, put them on your sieves, and into a hot 
alove, keep turning of them every day, changing your* 
sieves ; when well dried put them into your boxes. 
No. 3^5. Pine Apple CHps^ dried. 

TAKE your slices of pine ap^es that you. have in 
syrup, and wash them in warm water, then put them on 
your sieves in such a manner that they do not touch 
each other, then take some fine powdered sugar, put it 
into a fine linen.bag and just shake it over them ; keep 
turning of them every day for three or four days in a 
hot stove ; when dry put them into your papered box 
with writing paper between every layer. 

No. Sd6« Cedrate*^ whole or in quarters^ dried. 

TAKE your preserved cedraties either whole or in 
quarters^ wash them in a little warm water; boil som« 
eyrup'in another pan till it comes to blow ; take a large 
spoon and rub it well to the sides of the pin till it comes 
white ; dip your cedrates in, take them out and put them 
on your wires over another pan ; let them drain welly 
then put tltem into a hot stove on the wires for pne day, 
till the candy dries all around them ; when well dried put 
them into your boxes as before directed. 

No. 237. Paste Knots^ red or wbke^ 

PARE some large apples,and cut them into a preser- 
ving pan, witn just water enough to come up to the top 
of the apples ; let them boil till they come to marma-^ 
lade, then pass it through a sieve into a flat brown pan ; 
take some cochineal and .mix it with the apples to make 
them a fine colour ; have another pi^serving pan with 
as mucti syrup in it as you have got apples, and boil the 
syrup until it comes to blow ; tsdie the syrupoffthe fire 
and mix the apples with it in the pan ; have sheets or 
plates made of pewtei;^ about a foot and a h^lf long and 



CONFECTIONER. M 

.about ten inches vndty with cklges turhed ateutthe* 
eighth part of an inch) to pretent the paste from &lfing 
^ running off; cover your plates with your paste and 
put it into your stove, which must be hot; let them re- 
main till next day, then take another pewter sheet and 
tvkh a knife cut the pafite round the edges and across 
the plates, scores about a quarter of an inch wide ; thtiS 
pull it off, and if it contes off easy it is dried enougli j 
when you have got it off in long strings, try to make 
them into knots according to your fancy ; put them oH 
the other plate, then into the stove, and let them stand »ff 
the stove two ^ys ; then take them out ; when they are 
cold put them into papered boxes, and let them remaiii 
their anill you want to candy them 

No» 238. Perfetto jimore. 

FOR four bottles of brandy, yon are to peel six large 
And fresh lemdus, the peel is to be very thin ; it is to 
be cut in small bits ; and put in the brandy with a little 
ialt, half a handful of currso^ts, five coriander seeds^ fivtf 
€^loves, and a Uttle cinnamon. The whole Is to beinfu* 
sed together for twelve hours, from which you are to 
draw off only two bottles of spirit ; then you are to take 
two pounds of sugar, boiled and clarified; in two bottles 
<if water with three eggs, this is a red liquor ; tlierefore 
you are to take a little roche-alum, which you must mlii 
in a little boiling water, and a little cream of tartar ; mix 
them in a small mortar ; then throw it in the liquor ; but 
first you are to strain it ; then mix them altogether, and 
filter it through blotting paper. 

No. 239. Perdeo. 

FOR four bottles of brandy, you are totakeffttrr 
handfiols of bitter almonds of the best quality, and they 
must be very fresh, they are to be cut in small bits, with 
a little Salt, two cloves, and a little cinnamon ; put all in 
the brandy : they are to be infused for twenty hours ; 
take two bottles of spirit ; two pounds of sugar, with twe 
bottles of water, without clarifying it, as this liquor wilt 
clarify of Itself. 

No. 340* AnftUeid. 

FOR four b6ttles of brandy, you must take half a 
pound of anntseeds, and a quarter of a pound of fennel^ 
three cloves to be cut in small bits, vrith a little salt ; 



M THE COMPLETE 

pot all in the brandf ; it is to* be infused twelve hours 
before you distil it ; two pounds of sugar must be cla«< 
n6edt with two bottles and a half of water, with the 
white of two or three eggs well beat together. 
No. 341, Cormelia tir Cinnamon^ 

FOR four bottles of brandy^ you must take four 
ounces of cinnamon of the best quality, thirty cloves, 
tiiirteen coriander seeds, a little sak, mixed together in 
brandy, let it infuse for eighteen hours ; you are to take 
from the stilias much as you can ; two pounds of sugar 
clarified in two bottles and a half of water, with two or 
three whites of eggs well beat together, mixed with the 
spirit, and filtered through blotting paper ; after yoa 
have mixed the spirit, take care to cork your bottles 
weU. 

No. 2-42. Coffee. 

FOR four bottles of brandy, take one pound of coffee 
VEk powder, the very best Turkey ; a little salt, two cloves, 
a little cinnamon ; then mix altogether for twelve hours 
before you distil it ; two pounds of sugar, two bottles 
snd half a pint of water claiified with whites of eggs, 
filtered through the paper. 

No. 243. Chocolate. 

FOR four bottles of brandy, take one pound of the> 
best chocolate, cut in small bits, a little salt, two cloves, 
and a little cinnamon ; you ai*e to infuse all in the brandy ; 
two pounds *of sugar clarified in two bottles and half a- 
pint of water, vrith whites of eggs, and filter it Uirough 
the paper. 

J\r. B. You must be particular not to take more than 
two bottles from every four, except from the cinnam^Ui 
from which you are to take as much as you can get. 
No# 244, Damson Cheese. 

PICK the damsons free from stalks, leaves, &c. put 
them into a jar, tie white paper over them, bake them in 
a alow oven till quite soft, rub them through a cullen- 
der while hot, put the pulp and juice which has passed 
through the cullender into a stew-pan with fine powder- 
ed sugar to your taste, boil it over a moHerate fire till it 
is as stiff as you can possibly stir it, which wiU take 
three hours ; keep stirring it to prevent it burning to 
the pan, and a fow minutes before you take it off the 



CONFECTIONER, M 

fire put the kernels of the damsons into the^pan^ and 
mix with it) put it into cups or moulds, let it stand a day, 
and cut some pieces of writing paper the size of the 
tops of the cups or moulds, dip them in brandy and put 
close over them; put them in a dry place and they will 
keep for several years« 

,^. B. You may make plum orbullace cheese, in the 
same way s it is necessary to take the skins off the ker* 
nels before you put them into the pan* 
No. ^45. Jifiple Cheese, 
. PARE and quarter your apples take out the cores, put 
them into a deep pot or jar, and put the pacii^ and cores 
at the top, let them bake in a moderate oven till quite 
soft, takeoff the parings, cores, and tuts of apple which 
are at the top, if they are dry or hard ; then put your 
apples into a stew-pan, with fine powdered sugar to your 
taste, and boil them four hours till it is quite stiff, put it 
in moulds or' cups, and lay paper over it moistened with 
brandy, set it in a dry place and in three weeks it will 
cut quite smooth. 

«/V; B. You may add a little of the rind of a lemon 
grated, or a few drops of essence of lemon before you 
put it into the moulds, also a few blanched almonds cut 
into small pieces and mixed with it. 

No. .346. Lemon Pudding* 

PUT half a pound of fresh butter, and half a pound 
of lump su{^ into a'sauce-pan, and keep it stirring over 
the fire till it boils, put it into an earthen pot and grate 
the rind of a large lemon into it, and let it stand till it 
is cold, beat eight eggs and squeeze the juice of the 
lemon on them, mix the sugar and butter with them, 
put them into a dish with a good puff paste at the bot- 
tom, put bits of candied lemon peel in the dish upon the 
paste. To be baked in the usual manner. 
No. 247^ Carrot Pudding, 

WASH and scrape your carrots, and boil them till 
quite soft, in a good quantity of water,take off the outsides 
and grate a quarter of a pound of the middle part of the 
carrots, add to it a quarter of a pound of clarified butter, 
four eggs well beat, and sugar and brandy to your taste, 
bake it in a dish with a puff paste at the bottom, and can- 
died orange or lemon peeh 



M THE COMPLETE 

Nd. 34B« CiffW PuMmg. 

BOIL some Windsor beaBs quifte aoftf take crfF tfae 
skiittf and beat a quarter of a poitnd in a Boortar dll 
quite fine^then add a quartered- a pound c^ clarified 
Jbotter^ foAir eggs^ well heat, and sugar and brandy to 
your taste, put a puff paste in the dkb loida good quan- 
iky of ditroa, cut ki long tats^ and htid upon the paste, 
imt the jaidding into a dish and bake it in a mocterate 
oven. 

. No. 249. 'IHc€ Cake. 

ONE pound of rke flower, three quarters of a pound 
cf himpsugftE* beat and sifted, nine eggs, and one tea 
spoonful of essence of lemony^at the eggs before you 
anaz it, then put in the other ingrediemt ai^ beat it half 
nnbour; bakeit in a^ckoven: kisSttoeataasoofi 
as it is oQld, and is best when new. 

No. 250. Eke Cheefe Cake. 

STEEP a quarter of a pound of ground rice ki milk 
xxver the fire till it is quite soft, put It into an earthen 
pot and add a quarter of a pound of buttery keep stirring 
it till the butter is melted, cover it close and let it stand 
till the next day, then add a quarter of a pound of cur- 
.cants wasbed and dried thoroughly, three eggs well beat, 
two table spoonfuls of ratafia, or brandy, and sugar and 
nutmeg to your taste, bake at in your patty pans with pufif 
paste at the bottom. 

JV*. B. Be carefiil not to have ixu^e milk than the rice 
requires, if it is two thin the currants will sink to the 
bottom. 



:HE END. 



► 



INDEK. 



A 

Almonds^ the way to blanch - « . . 2s 

burnt, red - - - - - 35 

burnt, white 36 

Almond paste ------ 37 

fiigots . - . - - - - - 26 

cake, a small fine - - - - 28 

Anniseed --.-.*« 81 

Apple cheese - - ^ - .i« - 83 

B 

Biscuits, fine Savof - - - - ^r 13 

fine spunge - -r - - - • 13 

orange heart - * ^ - . 14 

Nicies i ----- u 

syringe - - - - -. - 15 

robe de chambiae « - • - 15 

comm<»i Savoy - - - - I6 

sweetmeat - - - - - I6 

monkey - - - - - - I6 

spice ------ 17 

toad in a hole ----- 17 

millefruit . ' - - . ,- 18 

masapan • . - . - i8^ 

judges - ^ - - - - 19 

Yarmouth , - - - - - 3a 

king's - - - - " - 2a 

chocolate - • - - - 20 

Italian water - - - - . 20 

lemon ------ 23 

ratafia. - 25 

orange - - - - - - 25 

filbert 25 

pistachio nuts - - - - 25 

orange flower ----*» 26' 

fresbi^ricot - - - - .- 2ar 



86 



INDEX. 



Biscuits, fresh Barberry 

fresh damson, or refined cheese 
Blomonge - - ;. 

C 
Cakesy Queen 

Water, with carraway seeds 

fine Shrewsbury 

fine ginger 

rasb^rry . . 

Seville orange paste 

a small fipe almond 

a large rich two guinea 

a small rich seed 
.a siQall rich plym 
Comfits, carraway of all sorts 

cardamom » 

CrocoDt, ca^mel . 
,€oniella or Cinnnamon 
Coffee. • 
Chocolate . . 
Carrot Pudding 
Citron Pudding 

DropSf bergamot 

hUds. currant 

chocolate 

damson 

Seville orange 

lemon 

orange 

pepperment 

violet 

barley sugar . 



27 
27 
40 



a)RI£D FBUITS. 



Dried damsons 

Dried, mogul plums _ 

green orange plums 
green gages \ 
, pears, or candied . 
cherries, sweet • 



VkitAj cherries, not sweet 

apricot chips 

orange or lemon chips 

angelica knots 

Wherries in bunches 

lemon peels^ or candied 

cucumbers . 

green apricots, 

apricots full grown 

grapes in bunches 

pine apple chips . 

cedrates whole or in quartefs 

paste knotS; red or white 
Pams<m cheese 

E 
Essence, cedraty 
lemon 



?« 



F 



orange 

Fagots, fine almond 
Floating island 
Filberts, burnt, white 



Jumbles, Seville orange 
Jelly, currant, red and white 
rasberry, for ices . 
apple . . 
hartshorn 
calves foot • 
black currant 
gooseberry 
Jam, rasberry 
apricot 
strawberry 
barberry 
Jam, peach 
pluiji 



iceing, for a rich cake 
Ice cream, barberry 
rasberry 
strawberry 



I 



88 



INDEX. 



Xceeream> apricot . 
pine apple 
curraHt 
pestachio 
biscuit . 
plain 

brown bread 
royal . • 
ginger . 
fresh strawberry- 
fresh rasberry 
fresh apricot . 
coffee 
chocolate 
Seville orange 
lemon • • 
China orange 
burnt filbert . 
burnt 
iniliefruit 
fresh currant 
-cedraty • 

burnt almonds 
Parmasan cheese 
damson 
prunello • 

peach 

black currant 
cherry . 



Lemonade 
Orangeade 
Lemon pudding 



M 



Maccaroons, French 
English 
Merings, in the form of eggs 
Millefruit, rock candy 

N 
Nuts, fine sweetmeat gingerbread 

O 
Orgeat ..... 



tSDEt,_ 



89 



f 



rfffUp • 

paste . % ^^^^k 
I^rawlongs, lemon • 

or^ge 

pistacbiO) red 
pistachio, i^hite 
burnt filbert, red 
orange flower 
Paste, almond . ^ * 

orgeat ^ 

Perfetto amore 



TO PRESERVE TRUITS IN BRANDT. 



Preserved apricots in brandf . 

Preserved peacbes ditto . • 

xnorella cherries ditto 

mogul plums in brandy . 

green gages, ditto . ^ • 
green orange plums, ditto 

grapes ditto . . . 



TO PRESERVE SWEETMEATS, WBT« 

^o preserve green apricots, wet 
apricots ripe, ditto 
pine apple'chips^tto 
angelica, ditto • ^ • 
barberries in sprigs, ditto 
rasberries whole, ditto 
currants in bunches whole ditto 
cedrates, whole ditto 
cherries, not sweet, wet or dry 
cucumbers and girkins, wet 
comport golden pippins, ditto 
comport French pears, white, ditto 
t:omport French pears, red, ditto 
-damsons whole ditto . • 
grapes in bunches, ditto 
•goosberries in the form of hops, do< 
^reen goosberries, ditto 
lemons whole, wet 



w 



INDEX. 



To preserve $eTil]^ orajige, (Jitto 
* orange peels* ditto 
orange chips, dit|jO 
lemoQ chip/», ditto 
lemon peel^ dittp 
pears, ditto 
green orange plipmsj ditto 
mogul pluips, wei 
pine apples wholjs, ditto 
9 small yeWpw plum, ditto 
strawberries whple dijto 
apricot chips, ditto 

R 



Basks, FreDj:h 

Bice caJ^e 

Bice cheese cakes 



» 



SfTup, prgeajt 
l^mon 
grange 

Seville orange 
pine»pf>ll» 
capillaire 
SBgar, tock, pf all colowp 
barley • • 

i/a clarify fpr sffneetmeats 
T 
Ttirtulongs, fine, for breakfast 
Trifle, », whip for . 

W 
Wafers, lemon 

barbeny • 
orange 
bergamot . 
violet . . • 

pepperment 
Water, currant, made of jelly 
Water, fresh currant 
cedraty 

rasberry, of jam 
fresh rasberry 



INDEX. ' 91 

Water, bcrgamot . . . * . ^ '49 

apricot ... * . • . 49 

strawberry, of jam . . » • 49 

". fresh strawberry . • • * 48 

peach •«••». 50 

pear ..«..». 50 

cherry , SQ 

Water ice, barberry 57 

rasberry . • • . . .57 

strawberry 57 

apricot .57 

pine apple SS 

chocolate ., • • . . . 58 

Seville orange • « . • . 58 

China orange 58 

lemon • 58 

punch . . • . . • 58 

peach • * • . . • . 58 

currant . • . . • • 58 

fresh currant • • . . • 58 

fresh rasberry 59 

damson . • ... . 59 - 

prunello ' . . . . . . 59 

black currant 59 

grape . * . . . . . 59 

cherry . . . . . . 59 

pear 59 

millefruit 6a 

bergamot 60 

cedraty 60 

fresh strawberry .... 60 

Whip 9yllabub> everlasting, to put in glasses . 49 



> 



.._^J 



KIELLS BINDERYJNC, 

SEP 1978 
WALTHAM, MASS. 021541 



\ 



Teie Complete Co>sFECTio:NrER 



■^i 







^-Jas«.jSii«»»' 



THE 

COMPLETE 

CONFECTIONER, 

OR, 

THE WHOLE ART OF / 

CONFECTIONARY 

MADE EASY : 

CONTAINING, AMONG A VARIETY OF USEFUL MATTER, THE 
ART OF MAKING THE VARIOUS KINDS OF 

Biscuits, Fruits preserved in Brandy, 

Drops, Preserved Sweetmeats (wet) 

Prawlongs, Dried Fruits, 

Ice Creams, Cordials, ^ ^ , , ^.-^ 

Water Ices, &c. &c. >^ ' >'- '/ 

AS ALSO THE MOST APPROVED METHOD OF >rAKING 

CHEESES, PUDDINGS, CAKES, Sec. 
IN 250"CHEAP AND FASHIONABLE RECEIPTS. 

The result of many years experience with the celebrated 
« Negri and Witten. 



'Wi FREE^EPJ;C;..N)LJTT;,;;E,SQ. 

Fourth F.d'tion, \fith cp.niderable additions. 



;'L(^id.ch Printed: ,; 
J\''eiv-York Refirinted^ 
FOR RICHARD SCOTT, 

AND SOLD AT HIS BOOKSTORE, NO. 243 
PEARL-STREET. ' 

A 1807. 



l/u-^..,.^,t'f 



'■i^=^ 



c c -« e 



^'c * CC , », 



ADVERTISEMENT. 



► 



THE flattering reception which this work has 
experienced, from a discerning Public, calls 
forth a tribute of gratitude from the Author, and 
merits his warmest thanks. With the assistance 
of several intelligent friends, this edition is consi- 
derably enlai*ged. 

It is very extraordinary, that only one work, 
except the present, was ever presented to the 
world, on the Art of Confectionary ; that produc- 
tion has already met with the contempt which it 
justly deserved. 

As the Author had the honour to occupy a dis- 
tinguished situation in this particular department, 
he has availed himself of several years' experience 
and application, in compiling this performance, 
which he again submits to the indulgence and can- 
dour of his readers. 



CONTENTS. 



BISCUITS, 8cc. 

No. 1 . Fine Savoy Biscuits. 

2. Fine Spunge Biscuits. 

3. Orange Heart Biscuits. 

4. Naples Biscuits. 

5. Syringe Biscuits. 

6. Robe de Chambre Biscuits. 

7. Common Savoy Biscuits. 

8. Sweetmeat Biscuits. 

9. Monkey Biscuits. 

10. Spice Biscuits. 

1 1. Tode in a Hole Biscuits. 

12. Millefruit Biscuits 

13. Masapan Biscuits. 

14. Judges Biscuits. 

15. Queen's Cukes. 

16. Yarmoutii Biscuits, 

17. King's Biscuits. 

18. Choclate Biscuits. 

19. Italian W.iter Biscuits. 

20. Water Cakes with Carraway Seeds. 

21. French Rusks. 

r 22 Fine Sweatmeat Gingerbread Nuts. 

23. Turtulongs, fine, for Breakfast. 

24. Fine Shrewsbury Cakes. 

25. Lemon Biscuits. 

26. The Way to Blanch Almonds. 

27. French Maccaroons. 

28. Eng. Maccaroons, generally called Common. 

29. Ratifia Biscuits. 

30. Orange Biscuits. 

31. Filbert Biscuits. 

32. Pistachio Nut Biscuits. 
35. Orange Flower Biscuits. 

A 3 



CONTENTS. 

34. Fine Almond Fagots. 

35. Fine Ginger Cakes. 

36. French Apricot Biscuits. 

37. French Barberry Biscuits. 

38. French Damson Biscuits, or Refined Cheese. 

39. A small fine Almond Cake 

40. A large Rich Two Guinea Cake. 

41. A Small Rich Seed Cake. 

42. A Small Rich Plumb Cake. 

WAFERS. 

43. Lemon Wafers. 

44. Barberry Wafers. 

45. Orange Wafers. 

46. Bergamot Wafers. 

47. Violet Wafers. 

48. Peppermint Wafers. 

DROPS. 

49 Bergamot Drops. 

50. Black Currant Drops. 

51. Chocolate Drops. 

52. Damson Drops. 

53. Seville Orange Drops. 

54. Lemon Drops. 

55. Orange Drops. 

56. Peppermint Drops. 

57. Violet Drops. 

58. Barley Sugar Drops. 

PRAWLONGS, &c. 

59. Lemon Prawlongs. 
60 Orange Prawlongs. 

61. Pistachio Prawlongs, Red. 

62. Burnt Filbert Prawlongs, Red. 

63. Orange Flower Prawlongs. 

64. Seville Orange Jumbles. 

65. Burnt Almonds, Red. 

66. Burnt Almonds, White. 



CONTENTS. r 

67. Pistachio Prawlongs, White. 

68. Burnt Filberts, White. 

69. Merings in the Form of Eggs. 

70. Almond Paste. 

71. Orgeant Paste. 

72. Orgeant Syrup. 

73. Lemon Syrup. 

74. Orange Syrup. 

75. Seville Orange Syrup. 

76. Pine Apple Syrup. 

77. Capillaire Sprup. 

JELLIES, Sec. 

78. Currant Jelly, Red and V/hite. 

79. Rasberry Jelly, for Ices. 

80. Apple Jelly, to put over your Fruit, or what 

you like. 

81. Hartshorn Jelly. 

82. Calvesfoot Jelly. 

83. Black Currant Jelly. 

84. To make Blomonge. 

85. Goosberry Jeliy. 

JAMS, &c. 

86. Rasberry Jam. 

87. Apricot Jam. 

88. Strawberry Jam. 

89. Barberry Jam. 

90. Peach Jam. 

91. Black Plumb Jam. 

92. Rasberry Cakes. 

93. Seville Orange Paste Cakes. 

94. Millefruit Rock Candy. 

95. Rock Sugar of all colours. 

96. Barley Sugar. 

97. The way to make all sorts of Carrav/ay Comfits. 

98. Cardamom Comfits. 

99. Carimel Crocont. 
iOO. Whip, for a Triste. 

101. Everlasting Whipsyllabub to put into Glasses. 



CONTENTS. 

102. Floating Island. 

103. Iceing for a Rich Cake. 

104. To Clarify Sugar for Sweatmeats. 

ESSENCE FOR ICES. 

105. Cedraty Essence. 

106. Lemon Essence. 

107. Orange Essence. 

WATERS, Sec. FOR ROUTS. 

108. Lemonade. 

109. Orangeade. 

1 10. Currant Water made of Jelly. 

111. Fresh Currant Water. 

112. Cedraty Water. 

1 13. Rasberry Water, of Rasberry Jam. 

114. Fresh Rasberry Water. 

115. Bergamot Water. 

1 16. Apiicot Water. 

1 17. Strawberry Water, of Strawberry Jamo 

118. Fresh Strawberry Water. 

119. Barberry Water. 

120. Peach Water. 

121. Pear Water. 

122. Cherry Water. 

123. Orgeat. 

ICE CREAMS. 

124. Barberry Ice Cream. 

125. Rasberry Ice Cream. 

126. Strawberry Ice Cream. 

127. Apricot Ice Cream. 

128. Pine Apple Ice Cream. 

129. Currant Ice Cream. 

130. Pistachio Ice Cream. 

131. Biscuit Ice Cream. 

132. Plain Ice Cream. 

133. Brown Bread Ice Cream. 

134. Royal Ice Cream. 



CONTENTS. 

135. Ginger Ice Cream. 

136. Fresh Strawberry Ice Cream. 

137. Fresh Rasberry Ice Cream. 

138. Fresh Apricot Ice Cream. 

139. Coffee loe Cream. 

140. Chocolate Ice Cream. 

141. Seville Orange Ice Cream. 
152. Lemon Ice Cream. 

143. China Orange Ice Cream. 

144. Burnt Filbert Ice Cream. 

145. Burnt Ice Cream. 

146. Millefruit Ice Cream. 

147. Fresh Currant Ice Cream. 

148. Cedraty Ice Cream. 

149. Burnt Almond Ice Cream. 

150. Parmasan Cheese Ice Cream, 

151. Damson Ice Cream. 

152. Prunello Ice Cream. 
i53. Peach Ice Cream. 

154. Black Currant Ice Cream. 

155. Cherry Ice Cream. 

WATER ICES, OF ALL SORTS. 

156. Barberry Water Ice. 

157. Rasberry Water Ice. 

158. Strawberry Water Ice. 

159. Apricot Water Ice. 

160. Pine Apple Water Ice. 

161. Chocolate Water Ice. 

162. Seville Orange Water Ice. 

163. China Orange Water Ice. 

164. Lemon Water Ice. 

165. Punch Water Ice. 

166. Peach Water Ice. 

167. Currant Water Ice. 

168. Fresh Currant Water Ice. 

169. Fresh Rasberry Water Ice. 

170. Damson Water Ice. 

171. Prunello Water Ice. 

172. Blackcurrant W^ater Ice. 

173. Grape Water Ice. 



10 CONTENTS. 

174. Cherry Water Ice. 

175. Pear Water Ice. 

176. Millefruit Water Ice. 

177. Ber£>'ainot Water Ice. 

178. Cedraty Water Ice. 

179. Fresh Strawberry Water Ice. 

FRUITS PRESERVED IN BRANDY. 

180. Apricots, in Brandy. 

181. Peaches, in Brandy. 

182. Morella Cherries, in Brandy. 

183. Mo[^ul Plumbs, in Brandy.' 

184. Green Gages, in Brandy. 

185. Green Orange Plumbs, in Brandy. 

186. Grapes in Brandy. 

PRESERVED SWEATMEATS WET. 

187. Green Apricots, Wet. 

188. Apricots Ripe, Wet. 

189. Preserved Pine Apple Chips, Wet. 

190. Angelica, Wet. 

191. Barberries in Sprigs, Wet. 

192. Rasberries Whole, Wet, 

193. Currants in Bunches, Whole, Wet. 
104. Cedraties, Whole, Wet. 

195. Cherries Sweet, in Syrup. 

196. Cherries not Sweet, Wet or Dry. 

197. Cucumbers or Gerkins, .Wet. 

198. Comport Golden Pippins, Wet.- 

199. Comport French Pears, White, Wet. 

200. Comport French Pears, Red, Wet. 

201. Damsons, Whole, Wet. 

202. Grapes in Bunches, Wet. 

203. Goosberries in the Form of Flops, Wcl. 

204. Green Goosberries, "Wet. 

205. Lemons, Whole, Wet. 

206. Seville Oranges, Wet. 

207. Orange Peels, Wet. 

208. Orange Chips, Wet. 

209. Lemon Chips, Wet. 



CONTENTS. 11 

210. Lemon Peels, Wet. 

211. Pears, Wet. 

212. Green Orange Plumbs, Wet. 

213. Mogul Plumbs, Wet. 

214. Pine Apples, Whole, Wet. 

215. A Small Yellow Plumb, Wet. 

216. Strawberries Whole, Wet. 

217. Apricot Chips, Wet. 

218. Green Gages, Wet. 

DRIED FRUITS. 

219. Damsons, Dried. 

220. Mogul Plumbs, Dried. 

221. Green Orange Plumbs, Dried. 

222. Green Gages, Dried. 

223. Pears Candied, or Dried. 

224. Cherries, Sweet, Dried. 

225. Cherries, not Sweet, Dried. 

226. Apricot Chips, Dried. 

227. Orange or Lemon Chips, Candied or Dried. 

228. Angelica Knots, Dried. 

229. Barberries in Bunches, Dried. 

230. Lemon Peels, Candied or Dried. 

231. Cucumbers, Dried. 

232. Green Apricots, Dried. 

233. Apricots full Grown, Dried. 

234. Grapes in Bunches, Dried, 

235. Pine Apple Chips, Dried. 

236. Cedraties Whole or in Quarters, Dried. 
337. Paste Knots, Red or White. 

MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS, 

238. Perfetto Amore. 

239. Persico. 

240. Anniseed. 

241. Cornelia or Cinnamon. 

242. Coffee. 

243. Chocolate. 

244. Damson Cheese. 

245. Apple Cheese 



12 CONTENTS. 

246. Lemon Pudding. 

247. Carrot Pudding. 

248. Citron Pudding. 

249. Rice Cake. 

250. Rice Cheese Cake. 



COMPLETE CONFECTIONER. 



No. 1. Fine Savoy Biscuits. 

BREAK twelve eggs and put the yolks in abason,tlieu 
put in twelve ounces of powdered sugar with the yolks, 
then rasp the rind of four lemons, and mix and stir the 
rind up with the yolks and sugar, and beat them 
with a wooden spoon ten minutes, then whisk the whites 
in a copper pan, but do not leave whisking them till 
they are almost strong enough to bear an ^^^', or they 
will go to water and be spoiled, and Avhen you think you 
have whisked them enough, then mix the yolks with 
them, with a wooden spoon as light as possible, when 
it is mixed well, take ten ounces of line flour as dry as 
possible, and stir it up with the eggs and sugar, but not 
too much only till it mixes with the eggs ; then take a 
small tea-spoon and take out a spoonful of the batter 
and pull it along the paper, and as you pull the spoon 
along the paper push the batter down with your linger, 
so as to make the biscuit about three inches long, and 
about half an inch wide ; then sift some sugar over 
them before you put them in the oven, which must be 
very hot, but be careful they are not burnt, for they soon 
scorch if you do not watch them ; and when they are 
done cut them off the paper whilst they are hot. 
No. 2. Fiji:; Sfiunge Biscuits. 

TAKE three quarters of a pound of powdered sugar, 
and put it in a bason, and take twelve eggs and break 
the whites into a copper pan, and put the yolks in with 
sugar, and beat the sugar and yolks together with a 
wooden spoon, till you see the. sugar and yolks blow up 
in bladders of wind ; then whisk the whites well till 
they are almost fit to bear an t,%S!^ on them; then mix 
the yolks and the sugar v,'ith the whiles, with a large 
spoon very lightly, and stir them as little as possible, 
only till you see the whites and yolks are just mixed ; 
then take ten ounces of fme flour and mix well with the 
eggs ; then butter the tin moulds well, before you put 
B 



14 THE COMPLETE 

the batter in them, otherwise you will not get them out 
•when they are baked, and when you have filled the tins, 
sift a little powdered sugar on the top of them, before 
you put them in the oven ; it makes them a very fine 
ice : let your oven be moderate, and when baked take 
them out of the tins while they are hot, for they will 
come out the better when hot. 

No. 3. Orange Heart Biscuits. 

TAKE three quarters of a pound of powdered su- 
gar, and put it in a pewter bason, and put in thirty yolks 
of eggs with the sugar, and take seven preserved o- 
range peels and pound them in a morter very fine quite 
to a past, then take a handful of sweet and half a handful 
of bitter almonds, and pound them very fine, and mix 
them with a little orange flower water ; then put four 
eggs, yolks and whites together, and put them in the 
bason with the sugar, eggs, and peel, and mix them well 
together with a wooden spoon in each hand, and beat 
them till you see the batter rise very much, though you 
can hardly beat them too light, beat them till it turns 
quite white, and puffs up in bladders ; then put in half a 
pound of sifted flour, and mix it with the batter very 
lightly ; then butter the hearts, fill them, and sift a lit- 
tle powdered sugar over them, before you put them in 
the oven, which must be rather quick, but not too hot, 
otherwise they will not be light, and take them out of 
the tins while they are hot. 

No. 4. J\^aples Biscuits. 

TAKE one pound and a half of Lisbon sugar, put it 
into a little copper saucepan, and three quarters of a 
pint of wine measure of water in with the sugar, and 
one small cupful of orange flower water, and boil the 
sugar with the water till it is all melted ; then break 
twelve eggs, whites and yolks together, whisk them 
well, then pour the Lisbon syrup boiling hot in with 
the eggs, and whisk them as fast as you can at the time 
of pouring in the syrup, or the eggs will spoil, and 
^vhcn yon have poured it all in, keep wl.isking it till it is 
quite cold and set, and when it is cold, take one pound 
and a half of flower, and mix it as light as possible ; 
then put two sheets of paper on the copper plate you 
bake on, then take one sheet of paper, and make the 



CONFECTIONER. 15 

edges of it starid up about an inch and an half high, and 
pour your batter in it, sift some powdered sugar over 
it, carefully, to prevent its burning on the top ; do not 
leave the oven one minute when you think it is near 
baked enough ; and when baked, take it out in the pa- 
per, and let it stand till cold, then turn it over, and wet 
the bottom of the paper, till the paper comes off with 
ease, then cut it to what size you like : you may bake 
it in small tins if you please. 

No. 5. Syringe Biscuits. 

TAKE one pound of sweet almonds, and pound them 
in a marble morter very line with whites of eggs, but be 
careful not to make them too wet with the eggs, only 
just wet enough to prevent the almonds from getting 
oily, and when you hnd they get rather dry, then put 
another white of an egg in them, and pound them 
so fine, till you can scarce feel the least lump of an 
almond in it, then rasp the rind of six lemons very 
fine, and put in two pounds and a half of powdered 
sugar, and mix the sugar, almonds, and the peel al- 
togetlier as a past ; then take a syringe mould made of 
copper, adout twelve inches long, and about two inches 
%vide, made round, and to screw off at the bottom, with 
a little round copper plate, the size of the inside of the 
syringe with a little hole cut in the middle of it, in the 
shape of a star, and the mould must have two handles, 
about the middle of it ; then roll your paste to half fill 
your mould ; then take a rammer tl^.e thickness of the 
mould, put it over the past and squeeze it out against 
your breast upon the dresser, which must be floured a 
little, so as not to stick, and it will come out at the bot- 
tom of the mould, then cut it in pieces about three 
inches long, and join them in rings, and put three 
sheets of paper under them, before you put them into 
the oven, otherwise they will burn, for your oven must 
be very brisk. 

No. 6. Robe cle Chambre Biscuifs. 

TAKE syrup of sugar, and boil it over a brisk char- 
coal fire, till it comes to carimile, then have some Jor- 
dan almonds ready, and put them into the carimile su- 
gar, stir them up with a large wooden spoon over and 
over, till you see they are covered with sugar and dry, 



16 THE COMPLETE 

then throw them into a wooden sieve, and pick them 
that stick together and break them off, then make some 
iceing with whites of eggs and powdered sugar, and a lit- 
tle orange flower water, and put the almonds into the 
iceing, and see them well covered with it, then put two 
sheets of paper upon the plate, and put your biscuits at 
a convenient distance from each other, so as not to 
touch ; let the oven be moderate to colour finely the ice- 
ing, and when they come out, let them stand till they 
are cold, before you take them off the papers. 
No. 7. Common Savoy Biscuits. 

BREAK six eggs in a little copper saucepan, with 
half a pound of powdered sugar, whisk the eggs and su- 
gar very light, keep whisking them half an hour ; then 
mix half a pound of sifted flower with the eggs and su- 
gar w^ith a wooden spoon ; then take a tea-spoon, and 
one spoonful of batter, and pull it along the paper, and 
as you pull the spoon along the paper, push the batter 
down with your finger, so as to make the biscuit about 
three inches long, and about half an inch wide ; then sift 
some sugar over them before you put them in the oven, 
which must be very hot, but be careful that they are not 
burnt, for they soon , scorch if you do not watch them, 
and when they are done cut them off the paper whilst 
they are hot. 

No. 8. Sweetmeat Biscuits, 

TAKE some Naples biscuits that have been baked, 
and cut them in small pieces, about an inch and a half 
square, and about an inch thick, and lay them on youi: 
wire, and put them in the oven just to crisp them, then 
make some iceing with whites of eggs, and sugar and 
t)rangc flower v/ater, and dip one side of the biscuit in it ; 
then cut some sweetmeats in small pieces, such as le- 
mon and orange peel, and angelico, and just throw over 
the top of them, put them on your wire : you need no 
])aper under them, then put them in the oven to harden 
the iceing, and they are done. 

No. 9. Alonkey Biscuits, 

TAKE six eggs and break the whites and yolks sepa- 
rate, and mix the weight of six eggs of powdered sugar 
with the yolks, and beat them well together, then put, 
;;e whites in a copper pan, and whisk them well, and 



CONFECTIONER. 17 

put a little cinnamon pounded in with the yolks and su* 
gar, then mix the yolks and sugar with the whites ; then 
take four eggs and the weight of them of sifted flour, 
then mix and stir them all together ; then lay three or 
four sheets of paper on the plate you bake on ; and take 
a tea-spoonful of batter, and put it on the upper sheet 
of paper, then make them round and about the size of 
a half crown piece, and join two of them together with 
the spoon ; and sift a little powdered sugar over them, 
and put them in the oven, watch them for they are not 
long a baking, and when they come out, cut them off 
the paper while they are hot, and put the two under 
sides of them together. 

No. 1 0. Sjiice Biscuits, 

TAKE three pounds of flour ; and three pounds of 
sweet almonds cut in half, and put them with the flour 
and three ounces of spice, such as cinnamon and mace 
pounded, and one pound of powdered sugar, and mix 
them together on your dresser, then take three pounds 
of Lisbon sugar, and put it in a saucepan with some 
water and just boil it, and then mix it with the rest of 
the ingredients on the dresser, and when it is all mixed 
to a paste, heat your oven very hot, and put three pa- 
pers next your plate, then roll your paste to the size 
of a large rolling pin ; then put it on your paper and flat 
it down with your hand about three inches v/ide, but 
higher in the middle than at the ends, then put them in 
the oven, and when thy are baked take them out while 
hot, cut them with a sharp knife, about the eighth part 
an inch thick, in the form of a rusk, and you will see the 
almonds look very v/ell cut in them. 

No. 11. Toad-in<i-holc Biscuits. 

TAKE one pound of sweet, and one ounce and a 
half of bitter almonds, and pound them in a mortar 
very fine with water, then oae pound and a quarter of 
Lisbon sugar, and mix it very well v/ith the almonds : 
do not make it too thin, and remember there are no eggs 
in this ; then put one sheet of paper on your wire, 
and some wafer paper on that, then take a spoon and 
make your biscuits round on the wafer paper, about the 
size of a half-crown piece ; then put one or two dried 
cherries in the middle of them ; and sift some powder- 
B 2 



IS THE COMPLETE 

ed sugar over them, and put them in the oven, which 
must have a moderate heat, and when thev come out, 
cut the wafer paper round them, but leave the paper at 
the botom of them. 

No. 12. Millcfruii Biscidts. 

TAKE a quarter of a pound of preserved orange peel 
and cut it in pieces about half an inch long, and not quite 
a quarter wide ; then take six ounces of angelico, cut it 
the same way, and a quarter of a pound of preserved 
lemon peel, and six ounces of sweet, and one ounce of 
bitter almonds, and let all these be cut the same way as 
the orange peel, and put some whites of eggs, sugar, 
and orange fiower water in a bason, and make an iceing ; 
then put all these into it, and paper your plate with three 
papers, and make them what size you chuse, then take 
a little brush and touch them here and there with a lit- 
tle cochineal colour, it will make them look well ; let 
your oven not be too hot, only just to dry the iceing, 
as it will stick together well, let them be cold before 
you take them off, and they will be like a piece of a 
rock, &c. 

No. 13. Masahan Eis cults. 

TAKE one pound of sweet almonds and pound them 
very fine, so fine that you can scarce feel the least 
himp, you may use water to them ; then take one pound 
of powdered sugar, and put the almonds and sugar in a 
clean saucepan, and have a clear charcoal fire, but not 
iierce ; stir them together over the fire v;ith a wooden 
spoon, till the paste leaves the pan and keeps itself to- 
gether, but keep stirring it all the time, and be careful 
that it does not burn to the pan ; put it on a dresser 
with a little flour under it, and work it up well with your 
hands till it hangs well together ; then roll small pieces 
of it about three inches long and about half the thick- 
ness of your little finger, join the ends of them, and 
make them in round rings ; put them on the back of 
a wooden sieve, and put them in a stove or any dry 
place where there is some warmth to come to them, 
let them stay two or three days till they are quite hard, 
and when you want to bake them, take about eight 
whites of eggs, and put in a bason, mix some powdered 
sugar with them, and with a wooden spoon in each hand 



CONFECTIONER. 19 

beat it well ; put a cup full of orange flower water in it, 
beat well ; add more powdered sugar to it if there is oc- 
casion, to make it a proper thickness, and beat it about 
a quarter of an hour till you see it puff up and rise ; 
take a wire and put your biscuits in this iceing in the 
bason, and take them out and turn them inside down 
with your finger on this wire ; and let the iceing run 
through this wire into another bason until you see your 
rings quite through, then lay three sheets of paper on 
the plate, let the oven be very slow, and put them in, 
only until the iceing is set and they begin to change co- 
lour, then take them out and let them stand till they 
are cold before you take them off. 

No. 14. Judges Biscuits, 

TAKE six eggs and break them into a copper pan, 
yolks and whites together, whisk them well for about 
five minutes, mix half a pound of powdered sugar with 
the eggs, and v/hisk them for ten minutes, put as many 
carraway seeds as you think proper, and half a pound 
of sifted flour, mix it well with a wooden spoon, and 
put three papers on your plates ; then take a spoon 
arid drop them on papers about the size of a crown 
piece, sift some pov»'dered sugar over them, let them 
be rather thick in the middle, and the oven rather sharps 
and when they come out, cut them off the paper 
while hot. 

No. 15. Queen Cakes. 

TAKE one pound of the best butter, and rub it well 
with your hand in the preserving pan until it is as fine 
as cream, then take twelve eggs, yolks and whites to- 
gether, and vv'hisk them well in another pan over a 
gentle fire, mind they do not burn, for they will with- 
out great care ; take twelve ounces of powdered su- 
gar, and put with the eggs, keep whisking them for 
three minutes, put the eggs and the sugar over the fire 
again and whisk them, and be careful it does not burn 
at bottom, when it is pretty warni take it off and whisk 
it till it is cold, then mix it well with your hand ; take 
one pound of sifted flour, and twelve ounces of currants, 
v/ell picked and washed, mix them well M'ith the rest, 
butter your tin hearts, and put them on your plate, 
^vith three or four papers under them, your oven must 



20 THE COMPLETE 

be quick, but if you find it too hot for the top, put a 

sheet of paper over them to keep them from buruing. 

No. 16. Yarmouth Biscuits, 

TAKE six ounces of currants, wash and pick them 
very clean, dry them well, rub a little flour among 
them to make them white, and put half a pound of 
powdered sugar with the currants upon a clean dres- 
ser ; add twelve ounces of flour sifted, and half a pound 
of the best fresh butter you can get; break three eggs, 
and mix all the ingredients together to become a paste, 
that you can roll it on the dresser, the thickness of an 
eighth part of an inch, and then cut them out either 
round or what shape you fancy. 

N. B. Your oven must be rather hot, and put two 
or three sheets of paper under them, do not bake them 
too much, only just make them brown. 
No. 17. Kings Biscuits. 

TAKE half a pound of butter and work it about in a 
bason with a wooden spoon, then take six eggs and 
whisk them well ; put half a pound of powdered sugar 
in them and whisk them about ten minutes ; mix the 
eggs and sugar with the butter, then take six ounces of 
currants well washed, and put them with the eggs, and 
six ounces of flour, and mix it well together, put three 
sheets of paper on the plate, take a tea-spoon and drop 
the paste on the paper about the size of a shilling, put 
them in a sharp oven, and cut them off" while they are 
hot. 

No. 18. Chocolate Biscuits. 

TAKE a quarter of a pound of chocolate, and put it 
on a tin, over a stove to make it warm, then put a pound 
of powdered sugar in a bason, and when the chocolate 
is quite warm and soft, put it in with the sugar, and 
mix it well with about eight whites of eggs, if you find 
it too thin, mix more powdered sugar with it just to 
bring it to a paste, so that you can roll it in lumps as 
big as walnuts : let your oven be moderate, put three 
papers under them, let the oven just raise them and 
make them crisp and firm, and let them be quite cold 
before you take them off the paper. 

No. 19. Italia?! Water Biscuits. 

TAKE six eggs and break them, put the yolks and 



CONFECTIONER. 21 

whites in a copper pan with the weight of the six eggs, 
of powdered sugar, whisk them w-ell for half an hour: 
take six more eggs and the weight of them of sifted 
flour, mix it with tkem, cut a piece of wood about the 
size of the top of a large breakfast cup, but not thicker 
than the eighth of an inch, in the form of a round ring 
with a piece projecting from it to hold by as a handle ; 
take a table spoonful of the batter, and with a large 
knife spread it to the thickness of the wood until the 
nng is filled up ; lay your knife on the paper close to 
the wood, and lift the wood up, and you will see your 
cake on the paper : put as many of them on the paper 
as you can without touching each other ; let your oven 
be very hot and they will be baked in five minutes, but 
take care they do not burn at bottom ; when they are 
done let them stand until they are quite cold, then wet 
the other side of the paper and they will come off 
easily, put them in the oven afterwards to dry crisp. 
No. 20. Water Cakes with Carraivav Seeds. 

TAKE three pounds of powdered sugar and four 
pounds of sifted flour,mix the flour and sugar together on 
a clean dresser with half water and half w-hites of eggs, 
and as many carraway seeds as you may think proper, 
mix all together so as to make it a very fine paste, that 
you can roll it on the dresser and the thinner the better, 
eut out the shape you like with a thin cutter ; round" 
and scolloped is the general fashion, but vary the shape 
to your fancy, roll them very thin and they will be the 
crisper, for if they are not crisp they are not worth eat- 
ing ; put them on a sheet of paper and rather a slow 
oven, and if you think it too hot, put as many sheets of 
paper as you think fit to prevent them from being 
luirnt, bake them very little so as just to change the 
colour of them, and butter that sheet of paper you put 
them on that they may come off* easily. 
No. 21. French Rusks. 

TAKE a clean copper pan and break into it as many 
eggs as the yolks will make the weight of a pound, use 
no white in this ingredient, take one pound and a half 
of pov\^dered sugar and put in with the yolks of the eggs, 
with a large wooden spoon stir them up well together 
About ten minutes, put in three handsful of carraway 



22 THE COMPLETE 

seeds, and two pounds of flour, and mix airtogether, 
roll your paste on a clean dresser in a roll about four- 
teen inches long and the thickness of a large rolling 
pin, paper your plate with three sheets of paper besides 
the sheets your paste is on, lay the paste in a long roll 
on the paper and flat it down with your hand, let it be 
about one inch high in the middle of the paste, and flat 
it down towards the edges, rather to a point, and after 
they are baked, wet the paper that they may come off 
whilst they are warm, and be careful not to bake them 
too much, or they will not cut witi^out breaking, then 
with a sharp knife, cut them about a quarter of an inch 
thick, in the form of a rusk, and lay them fiat on the 
wire, and put them into the oven so as to make them 
crisp and dry, and they are done. 

No. 22. Fine Svj eat meat Gingerbread Niits. 

TAKE two pounds of the best treacle and put it in a 
large bason ; then take half a pound of the best fresh 
butter, emd carefully melt it, not to oil, pour the butter 
to the treacle, and stir it well as you pour it in ; add 
three quarters of an ounce of the best pounded ginger, 
and put in with it two ounces of preserved lemon and 
orange peel cut very small ; and two ounces of pre- 
served angelica, likewise cut very small ; and one ounce 
of corriander seed pounded, and one ounce and a half 
of carraway seeds whoie, mix them well together ; then 
break two eggs, yolks and whites together, and mix as 
much flour as will bring it to a fine paste ; make them 
the size you choose; put them on the bare tin plate, 
and let your oven be rather brisk. 

No. 23. Turtulongs^ fine ^ for breakfast. 

Take a quarter of a pound of butter, three ounces of 
powdered sugar, one pound and a half of flour, six eggs 
yolks and whites tcgether, and a very little salt, and 
mix them all together on your dresser, and having a 
preserving pan on tlic fire, with clean boiling v»'ater in 
it, roll your batter out about four inches long, and al- 
most as thick as your little finger, join it in two round 
rings the two ends of them, and put them in this boil- 
ing water, not too many at a time, then on the other 
side have a bason with cold water, and as the biscuits 
swim on the top of the boiling water, take them out^ 



CONFECTIONER. 23 

put them in the cold water, and let them lie all night ; 
take them out next morning and put them into a sieve, 
and drain all the water from them ; put them on your 
plate, without any paper under them, let your oven be 
very hot, and watch them, and you will see them rise 
very much, the more the better, see they are not burnt, 
but let them be of a fine brown, and then take them out. 
No. 24. Fine Shrewsbury Cakes. 

TAKE a pound of butter, and put it in a little flat 
pan, rub it till it is as fine as cream ; then take one 
pound of powdered sugar, a little cinnamon and mace 
pounded, and four eggs, yolks and whites together : 
beat them with your hand till it is very light ; then 
take one pound and a half of sifted flour, work it toge- 
ther, and roll it on your dresser, to what size you like, 
only very flat, let your oven be rather slow, and let 
them change their colour, then take them out. 
No. 25. Lemon Biscuits. 

TAKE one pound of sweet almonds, and pound 
them very fine in a mortar, and whites of eggs with 
them, be careful to temper them properly, to prevent 
the almonds from turning to oil, and pound them to a 
very fine paste ; put in three pounds of powdered su- 
gar, and mix it well ; take ten lemons, rasp the rinds 
of them very fine, and mix it with the almonds and 
sugar ; when they are all well mixed, take a knife, 
and a small piece of board in your hand, and try to 
drop off the paste on a sheet of paper, about half the 
size of a nutmeg, and round, put them at a convenient 
distance from each other, and put them in the oven, 
which if you find too hot, put three or four sheets of 
paper, or more at bottom, as occasion shall require 
under your biscuits, to prevent their scorching, M'hen 
they come out of the oven, let them stand till they are 
quite cold, and they will come off the paper very 
easily. 

No. 26. The Way to Blanch Jlmonds. 

FOR all biscuits that are made v/ith almonds, the 
almonds must always be blanched, and for every thing 
else, except it is particularly mentioned to the con- 
trary, and the quickest way of blanching them is tris ; 
viz* put a pan of water on the fire and let it boil, then 



24 THE COMPLETE 

put the almonds in for about ten minutes, drain the 
water from them, put them on a dresser and rub them 
as hard as you can with both your hands, and when 
you think they are almost blanched, take a butcher's 
tray and put them in, and holding each end of the tray 
fan them up and down till you see almost all the skins 
are gone over, then lay them on the dresser again, and 
those that are not blanched do them with your fingers, 
and fan them again ; and when they are done keep 
them very dry or else they will get sour. 
No. 27. French Maccaroons. 

TAKE one pound of svv^eet almonds and pound them 
very fine in a mortar, with whites of eggs, and be care- 
ful they do not oil ; then take three pounds of powdered 
sugar and mix with the almonds and whites of eggs to 
a fine thickness, so as to come off the spoon well ; then 
put three sheets of paper on your plate, and with a table 
spoon drop them off a little distance from each other 
so as not to touch, put them in rather a brisk oven, but 
mind they do not burn, bake them of a very fine brown 
colour and crisp ; then let them stand till they are cold, 
before you take them off, but if they are burnt at bot- 
tom, they will not come off at all, so that you must be 
very careful of them. 
No. 28. English Maccarocns commonly called Common. 

TAKE one pound of sweet almonds and pound them 
in a mortar with a gill of \vater, and the rest whites of 
eggs according to the pounding of them, not too wet 
nor too dry, but you need not pound these almonds quite 
so fine as for the French Maccaroons ; then add one 
pound of the best Lisbon sugar, and mix it well with 
your almonds ; then take a wire, and lay one sheet of 
paper on the wire, take some sheets of wafer paper, 
join them, and lay them on the paper that is on the wire, 
put your paste in a bason, take a table spoonful of the 
])aste, and drop it off the spoon ; sift some powdered 
sugar over them ; let your oven be pretty quick, but 
do not bake them much, only till the tops are of a fine 
brown, for these biscuits must be rather moist when 
eaten ; when tney are done, take then) out ; and cut 
the wafer paper off round them, but mind and leave the 
wafer paper at bottom of them, and round the sides of 
tiaem. 



CONFECTIONER. 25 

No. 29. Rataf.a Biscuits 

TAKE half a pound of sweet almonds, and half a 
pound of bitter almonds, and pound them in a mortar 
very fine, with whites of eggs ; put three pounds of 
powdered sugar, mix it well with the whites of eggs, to 
the proper thickness into a bason ; put two or three 
sheets of paper on the plate you bake on ; take your 
knife, and the spaddle made of wood, and drop them on 
the paper, let tiiem be round, and about the size of a 
large nutmeg; put them in the oven, which must be 
quick, let them have a fine brown, and all alike, but be 
careful they are not burnt at bottom, else they will not 
come off" the paper when baked ; let them be cold before 
you take them off. 

No. 30. Grange Biscuits. 

TAKE one pound of sweet almonds, pound them in 
a mortar very fine with whites of eggs ; take ten China 
oranges, rasp the rind off them very fine, and put it 
■with the almonds ; add three pounds of powdered sugar, 
and mix. it well, if you find it too thick, put more whites 
of eggs to it and mix it well ) then put two or three 
sheets of paper under, besides that you have put them 
on : let your oven have a moderate heat ; drop little 
round pieces of paste on your paper, about half as big as 
a nutmeg, and put them in the oven : let them have a 
fine brown, and take them off" when cold. 
No. 31. Filbert Biscuits. 

TAKE some Barcelona filbert nuts, and put them in 
a mortar to break the shells, pick all the shells from 
them clean, pound them in a mortar very fine, and mix 
whites of eggs with them ; take care they do not oil ; 
mix three pound of powdered sugar with the nuts and 
whites of eggs to a proper thickness, let your oven have 
a moderate heat, then with the spuddle and knife, drop 
small pieces, the same size as the orange and le- 
mon biscuits ; and put two or three sheets of paper un- 
der them, let them be a fine brown and all alike, and let 
them be cold before you take them off" the paper. 
No. 32. Pistachio A'ut Biscuits. 

TAKE half a pound of pistachio nuts and blanch 
them, pound them in a mortar very fine ; mix whites of 
eggs, and one pound of powdered sugar in a bason, 
C 



26 THE COMPLETE 

break sixteen eggs, and put the whiles of them in a 
copper pan, whisk them very strong, fit to bear an egg 
on them, put the yolks with the sugar and pastachio 
nuts, beat them well with a spoon in each hand, mix the 
sugar, yolks and pistachio nuts with the whites very 
lightly, then put one pound and a quarter of flour, as 
lightly as possible : butter your spunge tins, and put the 
paste in : sift some powdered sugar over them, before 
you put them in the oven, let the heat be moderate, 
and put three papers under the tins: do not let your 
biscuits be burnt, but of a fine colour, and take them out 
of the tins while hot. 

No. 33. Orange Flotver Bi<iciiits. 
TAKE powdered sugar, what quantity you choose, 
and put as much white of eggs, as will make the sugar 
of a thick paste ; pick some orange flowers, and mix as 
many as you like, in proportion to your quantity of su- 
gar, and whites of eggs, in a bason, so as to be thick 
enough to roll in little lumps, about the size of a walnut ; 
let your oven be rather slack or moderate ; put three 
papers between them and the tin plate, put them in the 
oven, let them rise to a very light brown, and take them 
off when cold. 

No. 34. Fine Almond Fagots. 
CUT some sweet almonds in halves, put them and 
some whites of eggs in a bason together ; put a little 
powdered sugar, to make the almonds stick together, 
mix them well together in a bason ; put some wafer 
papers on your wire, make the almonds up in little heaps 
with your fingers, as big as you please ; sift a little pow- 
dered sugar over them, before you put them in the 
oven ; let them be a little brown, and then take them out, 
and cut the wafer paper off round them, that is ragged, 
and leave the wafer paper at the bottom of them. 
No. 35. Fine Ginger Cakes. 
TAKE four pounds of flour, and put on your dresser, 
then take a copper saucepan, and break six eggs, and 
mix them well with a spoon ; put one pint of cream in 
them, and beat them well, put the saucepan over the 
fire, and stir it till it is just warm ; put two pounds of 
butter into the cream and eggs ; and one pound of pow- 
dered sugar, and stir it over a very slow fire, just to 



CONFECTIONER. 27 

melt all the butter ; put in four ounces of pounded gin- 
ger, and when all the butter is melted, pour it all into 
the middle of the flour, mix it as well as you can, and 
when you have made it a fine paste, roll it out with flour 
under it, on your dresser, cut them to the size of the 
top of a breakfast cup, and a quarter of an inch thick : 
put three papers under them, before you put them in 
the oven, which must be very hot. 

N. B. These are very good for the stomach in cold 
weather. 

No. 36. Fresh Apricot Biscuits. 

TAKE some of the ripest apricots, and put them in 
an earthen jar, in a copper pot ; fill the pot up with wa- 
ter round the jar, cover the jar over very close, put it 
over the fire, and let it simmer for four or five hours, 
and then take the apricots, cut and put them in a sieve 
till next morning, pass them through the sieve with 
your hand : to every two pounds of jam, put five pounds 
of powdered sugar, and beat it well together with two 
spoons ; then break into it eight whites of eggs, whisk 
them very strong, and mix them with the jam ; fill your 
paper moulds, and put them in the Iiot stove, and do 
the same as you will see in the receipt of the barberry 
biscuits, and put them in a dry box. 

No. 37. Fresh Barberry Biscuiis. 

TAKE your barberries, and put them in the oven ; 
pass them through a sieve, and allow to every tvv'o 
pounds of barberries, five pounds of povidered sugar, 
sifted through a lawn sieve ; mix the sugar with the 
barberries ; break four eggs, put the whites in a copper 
pan, and whisk them very strong, mix them with the 
jam ; glaze some thick white paper, cut it in small 
pieces, and make them in small square bezes, common- 
ly called coffins ; put the jam in as smooth as possible, 
and put them in a sieve ; then put them in your stove, 
and let them be in six or eight days ; when they are 
dry, tear the paper off" them, put them in your papered 
box, and keep them dry. 

No. 38. Fresh Damson Biscuit^ or refined Cheese. 

TAKE some fine damsons, and put them in a brown 
earthen pan ; put them in the oven, and let them be till 
you find that all the skins will come off, and that the 



28 THE COMPLETE 

damsons are quite baked through ; then take them out, 
skin and stone them, pass them through a sieve with a 
spoon ; put five pounds of powdered sugar to every two 
pounds of jam, add five whites of eggs whisked very- 
strong, mix them well with the jam and sugar ; put 
them in paper moulds, as you do the barberry biscuits ; 
let them be in the stove five or six days, when dry take 
the paper ofi', and put them in your dry box. 
No. 39. ^i small fine Almond Cake. 

TAKE six ounces of powdered sugar, and put it into 
a bason ; then take five eggs, and put the yolks with the 
sugar; and six ounces of almonds, half bitter, and half 
sweet, pound the almonds very fine in a mortar with the 
white of an e^^ or two, put them in with the yolks and 
sugar, beat them well with a wooden spoon, whisk the 
Avhites very strong in the copper pan, mix the yolks and 
the rest with the whites, as light as possible, and take 
two ounces of flour, sifted very fine, and mix it with the 
rest : paper the heap that you mean to bake it in, with 
three papers double on the inside of the heap, and four 
at bottom ; let your oven be very brisk, and before you 
put it in, sift a little powdered sugar over the top of it ; 
if you find after it has been in the oven a little time, that 
it is too hot for it on the top, put one or two sheets of 
paper on the top of the cake, to prevent its scorching. 
They vrill not take above half an hour baking, if your 
oven is proper for them. 

No. 40. A large rich two Guinea Cake. 

TAKE a large flat copper preserving pan ; then take 
four pounds of the best fresh butter and rub the butter 
very fine ; take another large copper pan and break 
fifty-four eggs, whisking them ten minutes ; put four 
pounds of powdered sugar, and whisk the eggs and su- 
gar together over the fire, till you find it pretty warm, 
take it off", and whisk it till cold, mix it well with th<3 
butter, with your hand, and put in an ounce of mace and 
cinnamon pounded, and two glasses of brandy : cut two 
pounds of lemon and orange peel, and citron, and one 
pound of sweet almonds ; take five pounds and three 
quarters of flour, and sift it, put in half of it, then take 
four pounds of clean currants and put in. 

JS/''. B. When you have put half you flour in, then 



CONFECTIONER. 29 

add a qiira-ter of a pound of bitter almonds, pounded with 
a little powdered sugar, just to keep them from oiling, 
put the rest of the fiour in, and paper your large heap, 
putting four sheets withinsidc, and at bottom, and let 
your oven be very brisk. 

No. 4:\. A small rich Seed Cake, 

BREAK fourteen eggs into a copper pan, whisk 
them ten minutes ; then take one pound of butter, and 
rub it well with your hand to a cream ; put one pound of 
powdered sugar to the eggs, and whisk them over the 
lire three minutes, then whisk them till they are cold, 
afterwards mix them with the butter, with your hand 
as light as you can ; put two or three handsful of car- 
raway seed in, and some sweet almonds cut ; and a little 
cinnamon and mace ; mix one pound and a quarter of 
ilour, as light as you can with your hand : put three pa- 
pers inside your heap, and four or five at bottom, and let 
your oven be rather brisk ; when you find your cake has 
risen, and the oven too hot at the top, cover it with a 
sheet of paper, and it will be done in about an hour and 
a half, or two hours at farthest. 

No. 42. A small rich Plumb Cake. 

TAKE one pound and six ounces of currants, wash 
and pick them very clean, then dry them, and rub a lit- 
tle flour with them, to make them all white ; take one 
pound of butter, and put it into a copper preserving pan, 
rub it with your hand quite to a cream ; take another 
pan, and break sixteen eggs, yolks and whites together, 
whisk them about ten minutes ; take one pound of pow- 
dered sugar, put it in with the eggs, whisk them well 
over the fire, and be careful it does not burn at bottom ^ 
make the v^'hisk go to the bottom, and when you feel 
they are warm, take it off ; whisk them till they are 
quite cold before you put them to the butter, mix them 
well with the butter with your hand, put the pound and 
six ounces of currants in with it ; put in one pound and 
a quarter of flour, and mix it with the rest '^ add half a 
pound of citron and lemon and orange peel cur in it; 
and a handful of sweet almonds cut ; and a handful bit- 
ter almonds pounded with a little powdered sugar ; half 
an ounce of cinnamon and mace pounded, antla glass.of 

2 e 



30 THE COMPLETE 

brandy ; then paper your hoop, put your cake in the 
oven, and let it be of a regular heat. 

No. 43. Lemon Wafers, 

Tx\KE six lemons, and squeeze into an earthen pan ; 
pound and sift some double refined susjar and mix it 
with the lemon juice ; put one white of an egg in with 
it, and mix it up well together with your wooden spoon, 
to make it of a fine thickness ; take some sheets of wa- 
fer paper, and put one sheet of it on a pewter sheet, or 
tin plate, put a spoonful on, and cover the sheets of wa- 
fer paper all over with your knife ; cut it in twelve 
pieces, and put them across a stick in your hot stove, 
with that side the paste is on uppermost, and you will 
find they will curl ; when they are half curled, take 
them off very carefully and put thern up endways in 
a sieve, that they may stand up ; let them be in the hot 
stove one day, and you will find they will be all curled 
and then they are done. 

No. 44. Barberry Wafers. 

BARBERRY v^afers are made the same way as your 
lemon wafers, only v/hen you have made as many lemon 
wafers as you want, mix a little cochineal with the rest 
of the paste, to make it of a fine pink colour, and if it 
should be too thin, put a little powdered sugar with it, 
and dry them the same way as the lemons. 
No. 45. Orange Wafrs. 

TAKE six China oranges, and rasp the rind of them 
\-ery fine, cut them in halves, and squeeze them into a 
little pan ; take three lemons, and squeeze them in with 
the orange juice and the rind ; add some powdered su- 
gar sifted through a lawn sieve, and make it of the same 
thickness as you do for your lemon wafers, and dry 
them the same way with wafer paper. 

No. 46. Bergamot Wafers. 

SQUEEZE six lemons into a little pan ; mix with 
them some double refined powdered sugar sifted 
through a lawn sieve, so as to make it of the same 
thickness as your lemon wafers ; add some essence of 
bergamot, and mix it well with one white of an ^%%\ 
beat it till you see it is very white ; if you find it grow 
too thick, squeeze one more lemon in, cind mind you do 
not make it too strong of the essence of bergamot, for 



CONFECTIONFR. 31 

if you do it will become bitter, and not pleasant to taste ; 
then do them the same way as your lemon wafers. 
No. 47. Videt Waftrs, 

TAKE six lemons and squeeze them in a little pan ; 
add some fine powdered sugar sifted through a lawn 
sieve, and mix it with the juice, till it is as thick as 
your lemon wafers ; put some essence of violets, be 
careful to get your essence very strong ; put a little blue 
colour, so as to make it a very fine colour; if you iind 
it too thin, put a little more sugar into it, then spread it 
on the wafer paper, as your lemon wafers. 
No. 48. Pepfiermint Wafers. 

TAKE six lemons, and squeeze them into a little 
pan ; add some very fine sugar and one white of an egg, 
and beat it very well, so as to make it very white ; put 
some of the strongest oil of peppermint into it, so as to 
make it strong enough to your palate, then do them 
the same as your lemon wafers. 

No. 49. Bergamot Drops. 

POUND and sift some sugar very fine ; squeeze four 
or five lemons, and mix the juice and sugar togetjier 
with a wooden spoon ; drop about twenty drops of the 
essence of bergamot into it, and mix it well with your 
spoon ; stir it over your fire three or four minutes, drop 
them off your knife about the size of the orange and le- 
mon drops, and make tliem as round as you can, let 
them stand till cold, and tljey will come off well ; they 
must be dropt on writing paper. 

No. 50. Black Currant Drofis. 

GET half a sieve of black currants, and put them in 
a pan ; mash them with your spaddle, and put them 
over the fire ; bring them just to a boil and pass them 
through a sieve over an eartiien pan, put wnat jelly 
comes from them in an earthen pipkin, and put it over 
the fire and let it boil for two hours, stir it all the time at 
bottom with your spaddle, or else it will burn ; put in 
two pounds and a half of powdered sugar, mix it with the 
jam and stir it over the fire half an hour, drop it on pew- 
ter sheets or plates, in little drops from your knife, and 
put them in your hot stove, let them be there til! you 
find that they are quite dry, and then take them off 
with vour knife. 



32 THE COMPLETE 

No. 5 1 . Chocolate Drofis, 

TAKE one pound and a half of chocolate, put it in 
your pewter sheet or plate, and put it in the oven just 
to warm the chocolate ; then put it into a copper stew- 
pan, with three quarters of a pound of powdered sugar, 
mix it well over the fire, take it off, and roll it in pieces 
the size of small marbles, put them on white paper, and 
when they are all on, take the sheet of paper by each 
corner, and lift it up and down, so that the paper may 
touch the table each time, and by that means you will 
see the drops come quite flat, about the size of a six- 
pence, put some sugar nonpareils over them, and cover 
all that is on the paper, and then shake them off, and 
you will see all the chocolate drops are covered with the 
sugar nonpareils ; let them stand till cold, and they will 
come off well, and then put them in your box papered. 
No. 52. Damson Drops. 

PUT some damsons in the oven to bake but not so 
much as to break, then skin and stone them, and pass 
them through a sieve ; sift some common loaf sugar 
through a lawn sieve, and mix with them, make it very 
thick, drop them off your knife on paper, put them in 
your stove to dry ; when they are quite dry, turn them 
on a sieve, and wet the outside of the paper, and they 
will come off eaily ; put them into the stove again till 
they are quite dry and hard, and then put them by in 
your papered box. 

No. 53. Seville Orange Dro/is. 

THIS is the same sort of paste as yiur Seville orange 
paste cakes are made of, only drop them off your knife 
on your plate, then put them in your hot stove, and when 
they are fit, take them off with a knife, turn them upside 
down on a sieve, and put them in the stove again for a 
day ; then paper your box and put them in. 
No. 54. Lemon Drojis. 

SQUEEZE the juice of six lemons into a brown pan 
or bason, take some double refined sugar, pound and 
sift it through a very fine lawn sieve ; mix it with the 
lemon juice and make it so thick that you can hardly 
stir it ; put it into a copper stew pan, with a wooden 
spoon stir it over the fire five minutes ; then take it off 
and drop them off the point of a knife, of the same size 



CONFECTIONER. 33 

with the orange drops, and let them stand till cold, and 
they will comeoft'the paper. 

M B. If you wait for their cooling put them out in 
some cool place : they must be dropt on writing paper. 
No. 55. Orange Drops. 

RASP six China oranges very fine, squeeze them in 
a small pan or bason with the rind ; squeeze two lemons 
with them, without rasping the rind, sift some powder- 
ed sugar and mix with the juice, make it of a fine thick- 
ness, put it over the fire in a small stew pan, and with 
a wooden spoon turn it for five minutes, then take it ofF 
the fire, and drop them off the point of a knife, as round 
as you can upon white paper about the size of a silver 
two pence ; let them stand till they are cold and they 
will come off; then put them in your box. 
No. 56. Pefijiermint Drojis, 

SQUEEZE three or four lemons into a bason, and 
mix some powdered sugar with the juice, the sugar 
must be sifted through a lawn sieve ; make it of a proper 
thickness, and put some oil of peppermint in with it, 
as much as you think proper to your palate ; make it of 
a proper thickness with sugar, put it in a saucepan and 
dry it over the fire, stirring it with a wooden spoon for 
five minutes, then drop them off a knife on your writing 
paper, the same size as the last receipt mentions, and 
let them stand till they are cold, and they will come off 
easily, then put them in your papered box. 
No. 57. Violet Drops 

SQUEEZE six lemons, mix with them some pow- 
dered sugar sifted very fine; put into it two large spoons- 
ful of essence of violets and some blue colour, just 
enough to make it of a fine blue, viz. a little Prussian 
blue, pounded and mixed with a little gum water; mix 
all well together, and dry it over the fire, the same as 
the others, and drop them off a knife on paper the size 
of the others ; let them stand till cold, do not make it 
too thin, before you put it over the fire to dry ; when 
they are cold, put them in your papered box. 
No. 5 8. Barley Sugar Drops, 

THESE are made the same way as we make the bar- 
ley sugar, only when boiled put the rind of one or two 
lemons in rasped, an^rop the syrup on the marble in 



U THE COMPLETE 

little round drops as big as a shilling ; let them stand 
lill cold, then put them up in papers, and as you take 
them off the marble have some powdered sugar at the 
side of you, to put them in. 

No. 59. Le?7io?i Prawlongs. 
TAKE some lemons, and peel the rind off in four 
quarters ; take all the white off from the inside of the 
rind ; cut the yellow rind in pieces, about one inch long 
and about the tenth part of an inch wide ; have a pan of 
boiling syrup on the fire, and let it boil till it comes al- 
most to carimel, then put the prawlongs in, and stir them 
very much with a large wooden spoon till they are cold ; 
put them in a large sieve, and shake them just to let 
the sugar that does not stick to them go through the 
sieve ; lastly put them in your box, and keep them in 
a dry place. 

No. 60, Orange Praivlongs. 
TAXE China oranges, and peel the rind off in four 
quarters ; take all the white off from the inside of the 
rind ; cut the yellow rind in pieces about one inch long, 
and about the tenth part of an inch wide ; have a pan of 
boiling syrup on the fire, and let it boil till it comes al- 
most to a carimel ; put the prawlongs in, and stir them 
very much v.'ith a large wooden spoon till they are cold ; 
then put them in a large sieve, and shake them, just to 
let the sugar that does not stick to them go through the 
sieve ; put them in your box, and keep them in a dry 
place. 

No. 61. Pistachio Praivlongs^ Red, 
TAKE some pistachio kernals, and have a preser- 
ving pan on the fire with syrup ; boil it till it comes al- 
most to carimel, put some cochineal in and the nuts ; 
and stir them ; when they come off the fire break them 
apart, let them have two coats of sugar, and see that they 
are of a fine colour, and do every thing according to the 
receipt of the burnt almonds. 

No. 62. Burnt Filbert Prawlongs, Red. 
TAKE some Barcelona nuts and crack them, put the 
kernals into a copper pan or sheet, and put them in 
the oven to roast ; have a pan with syrup boiling, and 
let it boil till it comes almost to carimel ; put a little 
cochineal in a cup, when the sugar is boiled, add it t(^ 



CONFECTIONER. 35 

it and the filberts, and stir them very much with a large 
wooden spoon, till you find the sugar is got hard round 
them ; put them in a sieve, and separate them which 
stick together ; have another pan, with syrup in, and 
boil it as before and as iiigh ; put the same quantity of 
cochineal in, and mix them as before, because the second 
time you do them, the finer the colour will be, then put 
them in your box. 

No. 63. Orange Flower Prarjlongs. 
TAKE orange flowers, pick the leaves asunder from 
each other, and see that they are quite dry ; have a pre- 
serving pan with syrup on the fire and let it boil till it 
comes almost to carimel, then put your orange flowers 
in; stir them well with a large spoon, continue the 
stirring till they are cold, then put them in a sieve, and 
sift them, till you see the powder of the sugar all gone, 
then put them in your box, but do not put them in a 
damp place. 

No. 64. Seville Orange Jumbles. 
TAKE some Seville oranges, and cut the rind of 
them as thin as possible, and the breadth of a silver 
three pence, and as round as you can ; put them on a 
sieve into your stove ; let them stand four or five 
hours ; put some syrup over the fire, and let it boil a 
quarter of an hour; put your jumbles in the syrup, and 
give them three or four boils; drain your syrup from 
them, put them on a sieve in a hot stove, let them be 
there two or three days, till they are quite dry, then 
put them in your box and keep them dry. 
No. 65. Burju Almonds^ Red. 
TAKE some of the finest Jordan almonds you can 
get, sift all the dust from them, have some syrup boil- 
ing in a pai), and let it boil till it comes almost to cari- 
mel, put half a cup full of cochineal in ; put the almonds 
in as fast as you can, and stir them till they are cold ; 
then put them in your sieve and break those that stick 
together, from each other; then have another pan of 
syrup boiling, the same as before, and when they are 
cold, pick them from each other, for they must always 
have the coats of sugar on them ; see that your cochin- 
eal is properly mixed, to make them of a fine colour, as 
you must put more cochineal in the last coat than you 
did in the first. 



36 THE COMPLETE 

No. 66. Burnt Almonds^ White. 
TAKE some of the finest Jordan almonds you can 
get, and sift all the dust from them ; then have some 
syrup boiling in a pan, and let it boil till it comes al- 
most to carimel ; put your almonds in and stir them 
till they are cold ; pick them in your sieve, break them 
that stick together, and then have another pan of syrup 
boiling, the same as before, and give them two coats of 
sugar ; when done pick tnem from each other. 
No. 67. Pistachio Prawlongs, White. 
TAKE some pistachio kernals, and have a preser- 
ving pan on the fire with syrup, and boil it till it comes 
almost to carimel ; put in the nuts, stir them till they 
are all covered with sugar, and give them two coats, 
the same as burnt almonds, white. 

No. 68. Burnt Filberts, White. 
TAKE some Barcelona nuts and crack them ; put 
the kernels in a copper pan, or sheet, and put them in 
the oven to roast : then have a pan with syrup boiling, 
and let it boil till it comes almost to carimel ; put your 
filberts in, stir them till they are all covered witii su- 
gar, and give them two coats as the burnt almonds, 
white. 

No. 69. Merings in the form of Eggs. 
TAKE a half pint bason full of syrup, put it in a 
small stew pan, and boii it to what is called blow ; then 
take the whites of three eggs, put them in another 
copper pan, and whisk them very strong ; when your 
sugar is boiled, rub it against the sides of the pan with 
a table spoon ; when you see the sugar change, and all 
white, quickly mix the whites of eggs with it, for if you 
are not quick your sugar will turn all to powder ; when 
you have mixed it as light as possible, put in the rind 
of one lemon, stir it as little as possible ; take a board 
about one foot wide, and eighteen inches long, and put 
one sheet. of paper on it ; with your table spoon drop 
your batter in the shape of half an ^%%., sift a little pow- 
dered sugar over them before you put them in the 
oven : let your oven be of a moderate heat, watch 
them very close, let them rise, and just let the outside 
be a little hard but not brown, the inside must be moist ; 
take them off with a knife, and put about half a tea 



CONFECTIONER. 37 

spoonful of rasberry or strawberry jam in the middle of 
theai ; then put two of tliem together and they will be 
in the shape of an egg, but you must handle them very 
gently. 

No. 70. Almond Pa.^te. 

TAKE half a pound of sweet and one dozen of bit- 
ter almonds, and pound them so very fine that you can 
hardly perceive the least piece of almond in it ; use 
water to povmd them witi), but do not make them too 
wet, for if you do it will be a long time before you can 
get them dry again ; only just to keep them from oil- 
ing; take a small saucepan and a w coden spoon and put 
the paste in the saucepan, and half a pound of powder- 
ed sugar with it, nnx it well together, before you put 
it on a slow fire, keep rul>bing it with your wooden spoon 
in the pan, and be careful it does not burn, wl;ich it 
will if your spoon does not touch the bottom of tlie pan ; 
wiien you find the paste does not stick to the pan, and 
comes altogether, tnen it is done. .A-^. B. Put a lit- 
tle flour on your dresser, that it may not stick. 
No. 7 1 . Orgeat Paste, 

TAKE two pounds of sweet and one ounce of bitter 
almonds, pound them very fine with water ; have two 
Cjuarts syrup boiling, and let it boil till it is come to 
blow ; mix tlie almonds with it and stir it over the fire 
till it becomes very stiff, stir it all the time with aspad- 
die or else ii will burn at bottom ; when cold put it in 
your pots, and tie a bladder over the paper. 
No. 72. Orgeat Syru/i. 

TAKE eight ounces of sweet and one ounce of bitter 
almonds, pound them very fine, thtit you Ci^nnot feel one 
piece of almond in it ; mix one quart of water,wine mea- 
sure, with it ; strain it through a fine cloth ; put in one 
gill of orange flower water, have two quarts of boiling 
syrup, and let it boil till it is alm.ost caiimel ; mix what 
drains from the almonds with the syrup on the fiie, and 
let it boil till it becomes a fine syrup ; put it into your 
bottles whilst w^arm ; the next day cork them, and put 
bladders over the corks. 

No. 7o, Lemon Syrup. 

TAKE six lemons and rasp them very fine into a ba- 
son j squeeze the juice of one dozen of lemons to the 
D 



38 THE COMPLETE 

rind, and mix it well together with a spoon ; take one 
quart of fine syrup, put it in a saucepan and let it boil 
till it is almost carimel ; while your syrup is boiling, 
drain your lemon juice and rind through a fine sieve ; 
take care that you put the juice to the syrup before it 
is carimel, or you will have your syrup too high ; then 
let it boil three or four minutes, and observe that it is a 
fine syrup ; when done take it off; let it stand a little 
time, and put it in your bottles while warm ; the next 
day cork them, and tie bladders over the corks. 
No. 74. Orange Syrup.. 

TAKE eight China oranges, rasp them very fine in- 
to a bason ; squeeze one dozen of China oranges and 
two lemons to the rind : mix it all together with a spoon 
in the bason ; drain all the juice through a fine lawn 
sieve ; take one quart of fine syrup, and boil it till it is 
almost carimel ; put the juice to the syrup, but mind 
you make it a fine syrup ; put it into your bottles, cork 
and bladder them the next day. 

No. 75. Seville Orange Syrup. 

TAKE one Seville orange, and rasp it very fine ; 
squeeze eight Seville oranges and one lemon with the 
rind ; mix it all well with the spoon ; take one quart of 
fine syrup, and boil it till it is almost carimel ; strain 
your juice through a fine sieve, and mix it well with 
your syrup, mind you make it a fine syrup ; put in your 
bottles while a little warm ; cork and bladder them the 
next day. 

No. 7e>. Pine Apple Syrup. 

DRAIN the syrup from your pine apple chips, when 
you are going to dry them that are preserved, as you 
will see in your receipt of pine apple chips ; boil the 
syrup three or four times, and put it into your bottles 
while warm ; cork and bladder them the next day. 
No. 77. Capillaire Syrup, 

TAKE two quarts of fine syrup, and boil it to blow ; 
boil twice or thrice two gills and a half of orange flower 
water, skimming it all the time; put it into your bottles, 
and cork it up the next day ; put pieces of bladder over 
the corks, but mind that it is a fine syrup before yoii 
take it off. 



CONFECTIONER. 39 

No. 78. Currant Jelly, Red and White. 

PUT your currants into a preserving pan, mash 
them and put them over the fire ; when they are all 
broke and just upon the boil, take your spaddle and put 
them into a hair sieve ; let all the juice drain through a 
flannel bag till it is quite fine, if it is not fine enough the 
first and seconcj time, put it through again ; take as 
much sugar as you have got jelly, and let it boil almost 
to carimel, then put your jelly in, and let it boil ten 
minutes, skim it all the time ; then take it off, mind it 
is a fine jelly, and put it in your glasses. 

No. 79. RaHpberry Jtll\i^for Ices. 

PUT your raspberries in the preserving pan ; wash 
them well 'with your spaddle, put them over the fire, 
stirring them all the time they are on ; when they are 
ready to boil take them off, and pass them through a 
hair sieve into a pan, letting no seed go through ; put 
your jelly into another pan, and set it on the fire, and 
let it boil twenty minutes before you put the sugar in, 
stirring it ail the time, or else it will buin at bottom ; 
put fourteen ounces of sugar to every pound of jelly, let 
it boil twenty minutes, stirring it all the time, when cold 
put it in a brown pan and pots ; sift a little powdered 
sugar over it ; let it stand one day and then cover it up ; 
this jelly is good to make ice cream with. 

No. 80. ^pfile Jelhji) to fiut over your fruit or ivhat 
you like. 

TAKE one dozen and a half of russetings, pare and 
cut them into pieces into a preserving pan, and take the 
cores from them ; cover them with water, and let them 
boil quite to a marmalade ; put them in a hair sieve, 
let them drain ; have as much syrup in another pan, 
as there comes jelly through the sieve, and let the 
syrup boil till italmost comes to carimel, put the jelly 
to the syrup, and let it boil ten minutes ; then put it 
over your fruit, let it be hot. 

No. 81. Hartshorn Jelly. 

BOIL half a pound of hartshorn shavings in a gallon 
of water, till one third of the water is boiled away, then 
strain it off and let it stand till it is cold, melt it again, 
put in a little bit of orange and lemon peel just to colour 
it, skim it, well, and add half a pint of Rhenisli or white 



40 THE COMPLETE 

mountain wine, the juice of one lemon and a half, \vith 
half a pound of fine sugar ; taste it, and if it is not sweet 
<^nough to your palate, add more ; take the whites of six 
cg-jj^s, whisk them well and put them in ; stir these to- 
i^ether, let it boii a little, take it oif, and add as much 
lemon juice as will sharpen it to your mind ; pour this 
into your jelly bag, iirst putting in the whites of eggs, 
dud it will run the clearer, if it does not come clear the 
first time, pour it into the bag again, and it will come 
clearer into your glasses ; let your bag hang near a fire 
to keep the jelly warm, till it all runs off; you may know 
when the liquor will jelly, if when it is on the fire, you 
lake out a little in a spoon and let it cool. 
No. 82. Calves Foot Jdly. 

BOIL two calves feet in a gallon of water, till it comes 
to two quarts, strain it off and let it stand till cold, 
skimming off all the fat clean; take the jelly up clean 
fi'om the sediment ; put the jelly into a saucepan with 
a point of mountain wine, half a pound of powdered su- 
gar, and the juice of four large lemons ; whisk six or 
eight whites of eggs ; put them in a saucepan, and stir 
them well with the jelly till it boils ; let it boil a few min- 
utes; pour it into a large flannel bag, and it vail run 
through pretty quick, pour it again till it runs clear ; 
get a large china bowl ready with two lemon peels rasp- 
ed as thin as possible ; let the jelly run into that bowl, 
and the peels give it both a fine amber colour, and also 
a fine flavour ; lastly put it into your glasses. 
No. 83. Black Currant Jelly. 

PUT your black currants into a preserving pan over 
the fire ; mash them with your spaddle and just let them 
boil ; take them oft* and drain them through a very fine 
sieve ; boil them a quarter of an hour ; to every pound 
of currant jelly put fourteen ounces of powdered sugar; 
boil them ten minutes ; put it in your pots ; let it stand 
two days before you cover it up, and put brandy papers 
over the jelly before you tie tlie papers. 

No. 84. Tomake Elo}no7ige. 

TAKE one pint of milk and half a handful of picked 
isinglass ; put the isinglass into the milk and boil i' till 
all ti.e isiui!:lass is melted ; strain it through a sieve ; 
pound four ounces of sweet, and six or seven bitter 



CONFECTIONER. 2t 

almonds very fine; put a little spice in your milk; when 
you boil it, mix your almonds with the milk to make it 
palatable ; pass it throup^h a sieve again, put it in your 
moulds, and let it stand till it is cold. 

No. 85. Goosbn^ry Jelly. 

TAKE two quarts of green goosberries ; and put to 
them two quarts of water ; boil and mash them as they 
boil, until they are all to a mummy ; drain all the juice 
from them through a flannel bag ; when it is all drain- 
ed, take as much more syrup, as there is jelly from the 
goosberries ; boil the syrup to blow ; put the goosberry 
jelly into it and boil it about a quarter of an hour, and 
mind you make it a fine jelly. 

No. 86. Rasberry Jam, 

PUT the rasberries into a large copper pan, stir them 
well at the bottom of the pan with a large spaddle about 
three feet long ; mash the rasberries as much as you 
can ; put them over the fire and keep stirring them all 
the time ; when you find they are almost ready to boil, 
take them off; have a large hair sieve over another pan 
and pass the rasberries through the sieve ; the hair of 
the sieve must be large enough to let all the seeds of 
the rasberries through ; mind there is no pieces of ras- 
berries left ; put them over the fire and stir them with 
your spaddle ; let the rasberries boil half an hour, stir- 
ring them well from the bottom as they boil, to prevent 
them from burning ; put in fourteen ounces of powder- 
ed sugar to every pound of rasberries ; take them off 
the fire ; mix them well together and boil the sugar 
and the rasberries together half an hour ; sift some 
powdered sugar over the tops of the pan before they are 
covered- 
No. 87. Afiricot Jam. 

GET the ripest apricots you can, cut them to piecea 
and take the stones from them ; put them into a large 
copper preserving pan, and mash them as much as you 
can ; put them over the fire to warm, mashing them 
all the time ; pass them through a cullender and keep' 
forcing them with a small pestle ; when they are all 
broke put them over the fire and just let them boil for 
ten minutes, stirring them all the time ; then put fif- 
teen ounces of sugar to every pound of apricots ; let 
D 2 ' 



42 THE COMPLETE 

them boil together half an hour, stirring them all the 
time with your spacldlethat it may not burn at bottom ; 
"when it is boiled enough put it into brov.n pans ; when 
cold put some apple jelly over the top of them, and 
brandy papers over tlie jelly before you cover them, 
and let them stand two days before you put them by. 
No. 88. Straivbcrry Jam. 

PICK the stalks from the strawberries, and put them 
into a large copper preserving pan ; mash them with 
your spaddle to break them as much as you can ; put 
them over the fire, make them quite hot, almost to . 
boil ; pass them through a very fine cullender ; boil the 
strawberries you have past twenty minutes, stirring 
them all the time with your spaddle ; weigh your straw- 
berries ; and allow fifteen ounces of powdered sugar to 
every pound of strawberries ; put in the sugar and boil 
them together, stirring them from the bottom, (else 
they will burn) for half an hour over the fire ; fill your 
pans and sift some powdered sugar on the tops of them 
before you put them by, and the next day put papers 
over them. 

No. 89. Barberry Jam. 

PICK your barberries from the stalks, and put them 
into an earthen pan, then into the oven to bake ; when 
baked pass them through a sieve with a large wooden 
spoon, taking care there are no skins of the barberries 
in it ; weigh the barberries, and to every two pounds of 
barberries allow two pounds and a half of powdered su- 
gar ; mix the sugar and the barberries together, and 
put it in your pans, covering it up ; set it in a dry place 
but when you have filled your pans with it, sift a little 
powdered sugar over the tops of them. 
No. 90. Ptach Jam. 

GET the ripest peaches, stone and bruise them ; put 
them in a preserving pan and let them boil ; mash them 
very much, stirring them with your spaddle ; when 
they are soft pass them through a large sieve ; pound 
some bitter almonds with powdered sugar to keep them 
from oiling ; put half an ounce of them to a pound of 
jam; put the jam and almonds over the fire and boil 
them a (juartcr of an hour ; add ten ounces of powder- 
ed sugar to evei'v pound of jam ; mix the sugar and 



CONFECTIONER. 43 

the jam together, boil it half an hour, stirring it all the 
time from the bottom, else it will burn ; when it is biol- 
ed enough, put it into your pot or p.ms, and when cold 
put some apple jelly over it, and brandy paper over that. 
No. 91. Black Plum Jam. 

GET the ripest black muscle plums you can, cut 
them to pieces, stone them and put them into a large 
copper pan ; bruise them as mwch as you can with your 
spaddie ; warm them over the fire till they are soft; 
pass them through a cullender with a pestle and get as 
much through as you can ; boil it one hour, stirring it 
from the bottom all the time, or else it will burn ; put 
six ounces of powdered sugar to every pound of jam ;• 
take it off the fire and mix it well, put it over the fire 
ten minutes, then take it off and put it in brown pans sif- 
ting some powdered sugar over it. 

No. 92. Rasberry Cakes. 

TAKE one pound of rasberry jam, one pound of pow- 
dered sugar, and mix them well together, with your 
spoon ; have some small pieces of tin made in round 
rings about the size of a half crown piece, and about a 
quarter of an inch deep, and have a piece of wire fixed 
to the ring to lay hold by ; then have a pewter sheet or 
plate, put your ring on it and fill it with your jam, stroke 
it over the top of it with your knife, have a pin and pull 
it along all the inside of the ring and lift the ring up and 
the cakes will stick to the plate ; put them into your 
stove, and let them be there until the next day ; then 
take them off with your knife and turn them ; put them 
on a sieve and let them be until the next day, and when 
you find they are well dried, put them into your box. 
No. 93. Seville Orange Paste Cakes. 

CUT one dozen of Seville oranges into halves, and 
squeeze them into a brown pan ; put the peels into a 
pan of water and let them boil until they are quite soft; 
take them out and scoop all the inside out of them ; 
pound the peels in a mortar, then take one dozen and 
a half of hirge apples, pare and cut them into pieces into 
a preserving pan; add to them tiie juice of the orantjes 
and water enough to cover the apples, and let them boil 
till they come to marmalade ; pass it through a sieve 
with a spoon, likewise pass tne oraage peels that are 



44 THE COMPLETE 

pounded through a sieve ; mix the apples and oranges 
together; ha^'e as much syrup in another preserving 
pan as you have got jam ; boil the sugar until it is nearly 
carimel ; mix it with your jam, stirring them well to- 
gether ; put it over the fire ten minutes, stirring it all 
the time with your spoon ; take your heart tin moulds, 
or any shape you like, and place them on your pewter 
sheets or plates ; fill them with your paste, put them 
into a hot stove, and let them stand till you find the 
mould will come off easily, and without the jams run- 
ning ; take them off and place them in a sieve and put 
them in your stove until they are quite dry, then let 
them lay in your stove one day. 

No. 94. Millefruit Rock Candy. 

FIRST get a tin box one foot long and eight or nine 
inches wide, and six wires made to go into this tin ; the 
tin box must be made rather smaller at bottom than at 
top, let there be a hole at the bottom about the size of 
a common quart bottle cork, and when you put any 
thing in put a cork in this hole ; put a layer of paste 
knots at bottom and a layer of angelica knots ; put a wire 
between every layer to keep them hollow, go on with 
layers of any thing you have got that is well dried and 
hard ; have a pan of syrup and let it boil till it comes to 
blow, then pour it over them in the tin box and let it 
stand three hours in a very hot stove ; then pull out the 
cork at bottom and put the box on one side for all the 
syrup to run out ; let it stand half an hour in the stove, 
then take them out and you will find it will be candied 
all round them, then put them into your papered box. 
No. 95. Rock Sugar of all Colours. 

TAKE a pint of syrup, and put it into a pan and boil 
it almost to carimel ; have a white of an c^^ in a little 
pot and mix a little powdered sugar with it, make it 
very thick with a tea-spoon ; take your syrup off the fii-e, 
put the egg and sugar into the boiling syrup ; stir it 
jpcjund very much in the pan with a large spoon ; have 
a sieve papered, you must be very quick alDout it or it 
■will come over the pan ; pour it into your sieve, when 
cold it will be hard like a rock ; and when you want to 
vary the coiour, mix that colour you fancy with your 
Gggs and sugar. 



CONFECTIONER. 45 

No, 96. Barley Sugar. 

TAKE a small stev/pan, put some syrup into it and 
boil it till it comes to carimel ; rub a little butter on a 
marble stone just to greese it that it may not stick ; 
then take your saucepan by the handle and let the syrup 
run out of the spout along the stone in long sticks ; 
twist it (while it is hot) at each end and let it stand till 
cold. 

No. 97. The ivaij to make all sorts of Carranvay Coivjits, 
I TAKE some fine carraway seeds, sift all the du&t 
from them, and have a large copper preserving pan 
about two feet wide and with two handles, and tw o pieces 
of iron made as a ring on each side, then you must 
have a pulley fixed to the beam and a cord with a hook 
to each end so as to fix it at each side of the pan to l^t 
the pan sling ; then have some fine starch as white as 
you can get and just soften it, boil some syrup a quarter 
of an hour and mix it with the starch ; t.;ke some gum. 
arabic, put it into some water, then put that into another 
pan and make it just warm ; have an iron pot with char- 
coal fire under the large pan, but not too liot, only just 
enough to keep the pan warm ; have a large tub to put 
your pot of fire at bottom and your large pan must be 
on the top ; put the carraway seeds into your pan ; add 
a large ladle full of gum arabic, rub them with your 
hands until you find they are ail dry ; then put the ladle 
full of starch and syrup, and do the same over your pan 
of fii-e until you find they are all dry ; put the gum only 
three or four times totaem at fivst, then tae starch and 
sugar, but boil your syrup more as you find they come 
to coat with it and not so much starch ; when you have 
dried them seven or eight times put them into your 
sieve ; put them into the stove, do them tue next day, 
and so for six or seven days successively. 
No. 98. Cardamom Comjirs, 

GET your cardamoms at the chemists, and they will 
be in a shell ; put them in your oven just to dry tlse skins, 
and they will break ; pick all the seeds from them, put 
the seeds into your large comfit pan and have a fire 
under the same us for others ; mix your gum, starch 
and syrup, and do them the same about the pan with 
your hands. 



46 THE COMPLETE 

No. 99. CaHmel Crocont. 

TAKE your copper crocont top and butter it all over, 
then have some syrup boiling in a stew pan ; let it boil 
until it comes to carimel, take the pan off, dip a 
three pronged fork into the syrup or from the spout of 
the pan ; and you will see strings hang to the fork ; 
move the fork to and fro over the crocont until you 
quite cover it thick, have your little dish of sweetmeats 
under; take this crocont off the mould, and when cold 
put it over the sweetmeats and handle it very lightly. 
No. 100. Whip for a Tnfie. 

TAKE one pint of cream, put it in a freezing pot, 
put the pot into a little ice in an ice-pail, and whisk 
your cream with a whisk ; mix your wine and rind of 
an orange in another bason, and the juice of an orange 
and sugar according to your palate ; put your cream 
in and mix it, then pour all the liquor into a dish that 
your trifle is to be in and pour the froth of the cream 
over it, and put what your fancy likes to garnish it 
with \ add different coloured sugar nonpareils and 
some small biscuit of different sorts. 
No. 101. E-uerlasting Whipsylabub to fiut into glasses, 

TAKE fiv^e iialf pints of thick cream, half a pint of 
Rhenish wine, half a pint of sack, and the juice of two 
large Seville orany;es ; rasp in the yellow rind of three 
lemons, and a pound of douljle refined sugar well 
pounded and sifted ; mix all together with a spoonful of 
orange flower water, beat it well together with a whisk 
half an hour, then with a spoon fill your glasses. This 
win keep above a week, it is much the better for being 
made the day before it is used. 

No. 102. Floating Island^ a pretty dish for the middle 
of a iahle^ at a Second Course^ or for a Supfier. 

TAKE a soup dish according to the size and quan- 
tity you would wish to make, but a deep glass dish is 
the best, put it on a china dish ; first take a quart of 
the thickest cream you can get, make it sweet with fine 
powdered sugar ; pour in a gill of fine mountain and 
rasp the yellow rind of lemon in ; whisk your cream 
very strong as carefully as you can ; pour the thin from 
the froth into a dish ; take some Naples biscuits and 
cut them as thin as possible, lay a layer of then as light 



CONFECTIONER. 47 

as possible on the cream, then a layer of currant jelly, 
again a layer of Naples biscuits, over that put your 
cream that you saved ; put as much as you can make 
the dish hold, without running over ; garnish the out- 
side with sweetmeats and what else you like. 
No. 103. Iceing for a Rich Cake. 

TAKE six whites of eggs and whisk them very 
strong ; then have a pint of syrup in a small stewpan, 
and let the syrup boil until it comes to blow through 
your skimmer ; work it about the pan with a spoon, 
when it is all white and is a great deal thicker, mix the 
whites of eggs together, make it very thick, put it over 
your cakes and put them into your stove ; let them dry, 
then put another coat over them ; make it as smooth 
as you possibly can and let it dry in your stove. 
No. 104. To Clarify Sugar for Siveetmeatf{. 

TAKE a large deep copper pan and break two eggs 
into it, then whisk it as you pour the pan half full of 
clear water, so as to make it like soap suds ; put two 
large loaves of sugar into it, and put it over the fire ; 
take a large skimmer, stir it till it is all melted, if you 
stir it longer your syrup will not be clear; be careful 
it docs not boil over into the fire, for it is dangerous, as 
it may set the house on fire ; when you find it begins 
to boil and the scum rises, take it off the fire, but do 
not stir it till it has stood half an hour; then you will 
find that all the scum will come to the top ; take a 
large skimmer and take it off clean ; put it on the 
fire, let it boil twenty minutes, skimming it all the 
time ; strain it throug-h a flannel bag very clean ; put 
it into a pan or a large stone jar, and use it as you want 
it to your fruits. 

No. 105. Cedraty Essence. 

GET the Cedraties at the Italian warehouses, rasp 
the rind of them all round very fine ; put it in a large 
marble niorter, and allow for every quarter of a pound, 
two pounds of powdered sugar ; mix it well with a 
large spaddle till you find it is all of a colour and that 
the rind is well mixed ; put it into a stone jar, and 
squeeze it down as hard as you can ; put a bladder 
over the paper you cover it with and tie it over quite 
tight ; put it by, and in one montli it will be fit to us^. 



48 THE COMPLETE 

No. 106. Lemon Essence. 

RASP your lemons all round very thin, and allow lor 
every quarier of a pound of rind one pound of sugar ; 
mix it tiie very same way you do tlie essence of ced- 
raties, put it into a stone jar, and bladder it up the same 
"vvay. 

No. 107. Orange Essence. 

TAKE one dozen and a naif of china oraiiges, rasp 
them all round and squeeze six of them in with the 
riiKl ; mix it well lii a bason, let three pints of syrup 
bull about twenty minutes ; iiiix the orange rind and 
juice, ana just give it a boii»or two, and wiien cold put 
it in bottles and cork it up. 

No. 108. Lemonade. 

RASP two lemons and squeeze six, put to them 
three gills ol syrup and the rest water ; taste it, and if 
it is not to your palate, alter and mend it till it is right ; 
then strain it through a lawn sieve, and put it in your 
glasses for use. 

No. 109. Orangeade. 

TAKE eight China oranges and rasp four of them ; 
squeeze the eight and three lemons to the rind ; put 
about two gills of syrup irito it and the rest water ; taste 
it, and if you find it not rich enough put some syrup to 
it, and squeeze more oranges in according to your pal- 
ate ; and if not sour enough, squeeze in one more le- 
mon ; strain it through a lawn sieve, and it is fit for 
use. 

No. 110. Currant Water made of Jelly. 

TAKE two large spoonsful of currant jelly, and mix 
it with a little warm water, then put one gill of syrup, 
squeeze two or three lemons in and let the rest be wa- 
ter; taste and make it to your palate, putting a little 
cochineal in to make it of a fine colour ; strain it through 
a sieve, and it is fit for use. 

No. 111. Freyfi Currant Water. 

TAKE a quart of fresh currants and squeeze them 
through a sieve with your hand ; put two large wooden 
spoonsful of powdered sugar and one lemon in it, and 
the rest water; n ake it to your palate; strain it 
through a sieve and it is fit for use. 



CONFECTIONER. 49 

No. 112o Cedraty Water. 

TAKE a large wooden spoonful of the essence of 
cedraty, put it in a bason, squeeze three lemons ; add 
three gills of syrup and all the rest water ; make it to 
your palate, mind that all the essence is melted ; and if 
it is not rich enough put more syrup in ; pass it through 
your lawn sieve, and it is fit for use 

No. 113. Rasberry Water of Rasberry Janu 

TAKE two large spoonsful of jam ; put it into a ba- 
son ; squeeze six lemons in, and let the rest be water ; 
put a little cochineal to colour it, put in a little syrup to 
make it palatable ; pass it through your sieve, and be 
careful all the seeds are clean out, it is then fit for use. 
No. 114. Fresh Rasberry Water. 

TAKE one pint of fresh rasberries, and pass them 
through a sieve with a wooden spoon ; put two large 
spoonsful of powdered sugar in, squeeze one lemon in, 
and let the rest be water ; make it palatable, and put a 
little cochineal in to colour it ; pass it through a sieve 
and it is fit for use. 

No. 115. Bergamot Water. 

SQUEEZE six lemons, and to that add three gills of 
syrup, and let the rest be water ; mind you make it 
rich before you put the essence in ; when it is to your 
taste, put a tea spoonful of essence of bergamot in ; 
pass it through a sieve, and it is fit for use. 
No. 116. Apricot Water. 

TAKE two large spoonsful of apricot jam, and one 
gill of syrup ; squeeze four lemons, put a handful of 
bitter almonds pounded and a little powdered sugar in 
the jam, so as to make it have the same bitter taste as 
the kernals of the apricots ; let the rest be water, and 
make it palatable; pass it through a very fine lawn sieve, 
'and it is fit for use. 

No. 117. Straivberry Water of Strawberry Jam. 

TAKE two large spoonsful of strawberry jam, 
squeeze three lemons, and add one gill of syrup and the 
rest v/ater to make it palatable, pass it through a lawn 
sieve, and it is fit for use. 

No. 118. Fresh Strawberry Water, 

TAKE one pottle of strawberries and pick the stalks 
from them; pass them through a sieve with your 
E 



so THE COMPLETE 

wooden spoon ; and put in two large spoonsful of pow- 
dered sugar ; squeeze one lemon and let the rest be 
water ; make it palatable, pass it through a sieve, and 
it is fit for use. 

No. 119. Barbei-ry Water. 

TAKE two large spoonsful of barberry jam, and put 
them in a bason ; squeeze two lemons, put in one gill 
of syrup and the rest water ; put a little cochineal in, 
and if you find it not rich enough, put a little more sy- 
rup, make it palatable, pass it through a sieve, and it is 
fit for use. 

No. 120. Peach Water. 

TAKE two large spoonsful of peach jam in a bason ; 
put one handful of bitter almonds with a little powder- 
ed sugar ; squeeze five lemons, put in two gills of sy- 
rup and let the rest be water ; make it palatable, pass 
it through a sieve with a spoon, and it is fit for use. 
No. 121. Pear Water. 

GET some large pears, rasp them into a bason ; if 
your pears are large four will be sufficient, if small, six 
or eight ; squeeze six lemons, put in four gills of syrup 
and let the rest be water; make it rich and palatable, 
pass it through a lawn sieve, and it is fit for use. 
No. 122. Cherry Water. 

TAKE one pound of Kentish cherries, pound them 
in a mortar so as to break the kernels of them ; take 
the cherries and kernels, put them into a bason and add 
four gills of syrup ; squeeze four lemons in, and let the 
rest be water ; make it palatable, pass it through a 
sieve, and it is fit for use. 

No. 123. Orgeat. 

Take six ounces of sweet and one dozen bitter al- 
monds ; pouti'l tljem very fine, so that you cannot feel 
one piece of ahnond ; mix one quart of water with them, 
strain it through a lawn sieve, and put one gill of orange 
flower water to it, and it is fit for use. 



CONFECTIONER. 51 



ICE CREAMS OF ALL SORTS, 



' No. 124. Barberry Ice Cream. 

TAKE a large wooden spoonful of barberry jam and 
put into a bason with one pint of cream ; squeeze one 
lemon in, mix it well ; add a little cochineal to colour 
it ; put it into your freezing pot and cover it over ; put 
the freezing pot into a pail and some ice all round the 
pot ; throw a good deal of salt on the ice in the pail, 
turning the pot round for ten minutes ; then open your 
pot, and scrape it from the sides, cover it up again, 
and keep turning it for some time, till your cream is 
like butter, and as thick ; put it in your moulds, put 
them into a pail and cover it with ice and salt three 
quarters of an hour, till you find the water is come to 
the top of the pail ; do not be sparing of salt, for if you 
do not use enough it will not freeze ; dip your mould 
into water, and turn it out on your plate to send to 
table. 

No. 125. Rasberrij Ice Cream. 

TAKE a large spoonful of rasberry jam ; put it into 
a bason and squeeze one lemon in ; add a pint of cream 
and a little cochineal to colour it ; pass it through a 
sieve into a bason ; put it into your freezing pot, and 
do as above directed in your barberry ice cream. 
No. 126. Stra%vberry Ice Cream. 

TAKE a large spoonful of strawberry jam ; add a 
pint of cream and a little cochineal ; put it into your 
freezing pot, and follow the first directions of your ras- 
berry cream. 

No. 127. AfiHcot Ice Cream. 

TAKE one spoonful of apricot jam ; put it into a ba- 
son and squeeze one lemon in ; take a handful of bitter 
almonds pounded with a little powdered sugar, put them 
all to a pint of cream and put it into your freezing pot.^^ 



52 THE COMPLETE 

No. 128. Pine Jfiple Ice Cream. 

TAKE one gill and a half of pine apple syrup, put 
it into a bason and squeeze in one lemon and a half; 
add one pint of cream, make it palatable, then put it 
into your freezing pot and freeze it till it is as thick as 
butter ; if you would have it in the shape of a pine, take 
the shape and fill it ; then lay half a sheet of brown pa- 
per over the mould before you put it into the ice ; and 
let it remain some time, and be careful no water gets 
into the shape. 

No. 129. Currant Ice Cream. 

TAKE one large spoonful and a half of currant jelly, 
put it into a bason with half a gill of syrup ; squeeze in 
one lemon and a half; add a pint of cream and a little 
cochineal, then pass it through a sieve, and freeze it as 
the others. 

No. 130. Pistachio Ice Cream, 

BREAK '^ix es-ers into ?. paii; and beat them well w ith 
a wonfler. spoon : put in a pint of cream, bc^t that well 
with the eggs, and put in the rind of a lemon, one gill 
and a half of syrup, and a little cinr,ainon and mace, 
boil it and stir it all the time, else it will burn, let it 
boii tiii you nnu ic grows thick and comes to a curd ; 
then take it off; mix four ounces of pistachio nuts 
blanched and pounded very fine in a mortar with the 
custard ; pass it through a sieve, and put it into your 
freezing pot. 

No. 131. Biscuit Ice Cream. 

BREAK six eggs into a stewpan and beat them well 
with a wooden spoon ; add one pint of cream, the rind 
of one lemon, two gills of syrup and a little spice ; boil 
it till you find it just thickens, stirring it all the time ; 
crumble some Naples biscuits and ratafia biscuits ; pass 
them through a sieve with the other ingredients, and 
put it in your freezing pot. 

No. 132. Plain Ice Cream. 

PUT one pint of cream into a freezing pot in a little 
ice, whisk it about till it hangs about the whisk, then tak$ 
the whisk out and put as much powdered sugar as will 
lay on half a crown ; stir and scrape it about with your 
ice scraper till you find it all frozen ; put it into youc 
mould, and put them in your ice to take the shape. 



CONFECTIONER. 45 

No. 133. Brotmi Bread Ice Cream. 

DO the same with a pint of cream as in the plain ice 
cream, only when you have frozen it, rasp two handfuls 
of brown bread and put it in before you put it into your 
moulds. 

No. 134. Royal Ice Cream. 

TAKE the yolks of ten eggs and two whole eggs, beat 
them up well with your spoon ; then take the rind of 
one lemon, two gills of syrup, one pint of cream, a little 
spice, and a little orange flower water ; mix them well 
and put them over the fire, stirring them all the time 
"with your spoon ; when you find it grows thick take it 
off, and pass it through a sieve ; put it into a freezing 
pot, freeze it, and take a little citron, and lemon and or- 
ange peel with a few pistachio nuts blanched ; cut them 
all and mix them with your ice before you put them, 
in your moulds. 

No. 135. Ginger Ice Cream. 

TAKE four ounces of ginger preserved, pound it and 
put it into a bason, with two gills of syrup, a lemoa 
squeezed, and one pint of cream ; then freeze it. 
No. 136. Fresh Strawberry Ice Cream, 

TAKE one pint of fresh strawberries, pick the stalks 
from them and pass them through a sieve with your 
wooden spoon ; put four ounces of powdered sugar to 
them, and one pint of cream, freeze it, Sec. 

No. 137. Fresh Rasberry Ice Cream. 

TAKE one pint of rasberries, pass them through a 
sieve ; put five ounces of powdered sugar and a pint of 
cream, then freeze it. 

No. 138. Fresh Afiricpt Ice Cream. 

TAKE four ounces of the ripest apricots you can 
get, pass them through a sieve with your wooden spoon, 
with four ounces of powdered sugar and one pint of 
cream, and freeze it. 

No. 139. Coffee Ice Cream. 

TAKE one ounce of coffee whole, and put it in a 
stewpan with one pint of cream ; put it over the fire 
and let it simmer and boil ten menutes or a quarter of 
an hour ; drain all the coffee from it, break four eggs 
into a pan and add one gill and a half of syrup ; beat 
them well up together, put the cream that comes fromi 



^4 THE COMPLETE 

the coffee into it ; give it a boil, stir it all the time, passi 
it through the sieve and freeze it. 

No. 140. Chocolate Ice Cream. 

TAKE one ounce and a half of chocolate and warm 
it over the fire ; take six eggs, one i^ill of syrup, and 
one pint of cream ; put it over the fi/e till it begins to 
thicken ; mix the chocolate in, pass it through a sieve 
and freeze it. 

No. 141. Seville Oran.^e Ice Cream. 

RASP the rind of one Seville orange into a bason, 
and squeeze three, and two lemons ; add two gills of 
syrup and one pint of cream ; mix it well, pass it 
through a sieve, and freeze it. 

No. 142. Lemon Ice Cream. 

RASP one lem.on and squeeze three or four ; add 
two gills of syrup and one pint of cream ; mix it all to- 
gether, pass it through a sieve, and freeze it. 
No. 43. China Orange Ice Cream. 

RASP one China orange, squeeze four, and one le- 
mon and a half; put in two gills of syrup and one pint 
of cream ; pass it through a sieve and freeze it. 
No. 144. Burnt Filbert Ice Cream. 

ROAST some Barcelona nuts well in the oven, and 
pound them a little with some cream ; put four eggs 
into a stewpan, with one pint of cream and two gills 
of syrup ; boil it till it grows thick, pass it through a 
sieve and freeze it ; then mix your filberts with it be- 
fore you put it in your moulds. 

No. 145. BAirnt Ice Cream. 

TAKE six eggs, one gill of syrup, and one pint of 
cream ; boil it over the fire until it becomes thick ; then 
have two ounces of powdered sugar in another stewpan, 
and put it over tlie fire ; let it burn till all melts, 
stirring it all the time, and when you see it is burnt of 
a fine brown, pour the other in, mix it quickly, pass it 
through a sieve and freeze it. 

No. 146. Milk fruit Ice Cream, 

TAKE two gills of syrup, squeeze three lemons, 
put in a pint of cream, and freeze it ; cut some lemon 
peel, a little orange peel, and a little angelica, into small 
pieces \ wheuitis frozen ready to put into the moulds^. 



CONFECTIONER. S3 

put in your sweetmeats with a little cochineal : mix 
your ingredients well, but not the cochineal, as it nuist 
appear only here and there a little red, then put it into 
the mould. 

No. 147. Fresh Gurra?it Ice Cream. 

TAKE one pint of currants, pass them through a 
sieve with five ounces of powdered sugar and a pint of 
cream, then freeze it. 

No- 148. Cedraty Ice Cream. 

TAKE two large spoonsful of essence of cedraty, 
put it into a bason, squeeze in three lemons and add 
one pint of cream ; observe that all the essence is melt- 
ed, then pass it through a sieve and freeze it. 
No. 149. Burnt Almond Ice Cream. 

THIS ice is done in the same manner as the filbert 
ice cream. 

No. 150. Parmasan Cheese Ice Cream. 

TAKE six eggs, half a pint of syrup, and a pint of 
cream ; put them into a stewpan and boil tliem until it 
begins to thicken ; then rasp three ounces of Parma- 
san cheese, mix and pass them through a sieve, and 
freeze it. 

No. 151. Damson Ice Cream. 

TAKE three ounces of preserved damsons, pound 
them and break the stones of them, put them into a ba- 
son, squeeze in two lemons, and a pint of cream ; press 
them through a sieve, and freeze it. 

No. 152. Prunello Ice Cream. 

PUT five eggs into a pan with two gills of syrup 
and one pint of cream ; boil it over the fire till it comes 
thick, then put as much prunello spice as will make it 
palatable ; then pass it through a sieve and freeze it. 
No. 153. Peach Ice Cream. 

TAKE one large spoonful of peach jam, add one 
handful of bitter almonds pounded v/ith sugar, squeeze 
one or two lemons, and put in a pint of cream ; then 
pass it through a sieve and freeze it. 

No. 154. Black Currant Ice Crea7n. 

TAKE one large spoonful of black currant jelly, 
squeeze one lemon in, and add a pint of cream j pass 
it and freeze it. 



56 THE COMPLETE 

No. 155. Cheney Ice Crta?yi. 
TAKE half a pound of preserved cherries, pound 
them stones and all ; put them into a bason with one 
gill of syrup, squeeze in one lemon and add a pint of 
oream j pass it through a sieve, and freeze it» 



CONFECTIONER. 5? 



WATER ICES OF ALL SORTS. 



No. 156. Barberry Water Ice. 

TAKE a large spoonful of barberry jam, put it into 
a bason, squeeze in one lemon, add a pint of water and 
a little cochineal to colour it ; pass it through a sieve 
and freeze it ; be very careful that it freezes thick and 
smooth like butter before you put it in your moulds. 
No. 157. Raster ry Water Ice. 

TAKE a large spoonful of rasberry jelly or jam ; 
put into a bason, squeeze in one lemon, add a pint of 
^.viitci- and a little cochineal, and pass it through a sieve; 
if you make it roith jam, be careful not to let any of 
the seeds get into your ice ; let it freeze rich like but« 
ter, which if it does not you must add a little more sy° 
rup, and then freeze it. 

No. 158. Strawberry Water Ice. 

TAKE a large spoonful of strawberry jam, put it in- 
to your bason ; squeeze in one lemon, add a pint of 
water and a little cochineal, and if it does not freeze 
rich enough, add a little more syrup and freeze it. 
No. 159. A/iricot Water Ice, 

TAKE a large spoonful of apricot jam, put it into a 
bason, squeeze one lemon in, add a pint of water, and 
put to them one handful of bitter almonds pounded fine, 
with a little sugar; pass them through a sieve, and 
freeze it rich and thick. 

No. 160. Fine Apple Water Ice. 

TAKE two gills of pine apple syrup, squeeze two 
lemons in, add a point of water ; it must be rich and 
freeze thick ; if you want to have it to the shape of a 
pine, close it well and cover your shape with a sheet of 
paper before you put it in the ice ; let it lie for one hour 
covered with the ice and salt before you turn it out,. 



58 THE COMPLETE 

No. 161. Chocolate water Ice. 

TAKE three ounces of chocolate, warm it and mix 
half a gill of syrup with a pint of water ; mix it well 
and freeze it thick. 

No. 162. Seville Orange Water Ice. 

TAKE the rind of two Seville oranges off very fine 
and thin ; squeeze them into a bason with one lemon ; 
add two gills of syrup and half a pint of water ; pass 
them through a sieve and freeze them I'ich. 
No. 163. China Orange Water Ice. 

RASP one China orange, squeeze in three and one 
lemon, put in two gills of syrup and half a pint of wa- 
ter ; pass it, and freeze it rich and thick. 
No. 1 64. Lemon Water Ice. 

RASP one lemon, squeeze three, and put in two gills 
of syrup and half a pint of water ; pass it and freeze it 
rich. 

No. 165. Pu7ich Water Ice. 

PARE the rind very thin off one Seville orange, you 
are not to rasp it ; put your parings into a bason, 
squeeze in two oranges and one lemon, pul in two gills 
of syrup and half a pint of water, mix it and pass it ; 
freeze it rich ; when frozen and mixed well with your 
spoon, put as much rum in as you think will make it 
agreeable to the palate, but when you put the rum in, 
take the freezing pot out of the ice while you mix it, 
which must be well done before you put it into the 
moulds. 

No. 166. Peach Water Ice. 

TAKE a large spoonful of peach jam,putit into aba- 
son with a large handful of bitter almonds pounded fine, 
one gill of syrup, and one pint of water ; pass it and 
freeze it rich. 

No. 167. Currant Water Ice. 

TAKE a large spoonful and a half of currant jelly, 
put it into a bason, squeeze two lemons, add half a gill 
of syrup and a pint of water ; then freeze it rich. 
No. 168. Fresh CurraJit Water Ice, 

TAKE a. pint of currants, pass them through a sieve, 
put in four ounces of powdered sugar and one pint of 
Water ; pass it and freeze it rich. 



CONFECTIONER. 59 

No. 169. Fresh Rasberry Water Ice. 

TAKE half a pottle of rasberries, pass them through 
a sieve, then put in five ounces of powdered sugar and 
a pint of water, pass it and freeze it. rich. 
No. 170. Damson Water Ice. 

TAKE a quarter of a pound of preserved damsons 
and break the stones, put them into a bason, squeeze 
in one lemon, add almost a pint of water and half a gill 
of syrup ; pass it through a sieve and freeze it rich. 
No. 171. Prunello Water Ice. 

PUT two gills of syrup into a bason ; squeeze in 
three lemons, half a pint of water, and as much pru- 
nello spice as will make it palatable ; press it and 
freeze it rich. 

No. 172. Blackcurrant Water Ice, 

TAKE one large spoonful of black currant jelly, put 
it into a bason ; squeeze in two lemons, and add a gill 
of syrup and half a pint of water j puss it and freeze it 
rich. 

No. 173. Gra/ie Water Ice. 

TAKE two handsful of elder flowers, put them into 
a pot, boil a pint of water and pour it over them, cover 
them close ; then take two gills of syrup and the juice 
of three lemons ; drain all tlie water from the flowers, 
add it to the rest, make it palatable, pass it and freeze 
it ; when it is frozen, put it in the shape of a bunch of 
grapes, close it well and cover the mould with half a 
sheet of paper ; then put it into the ice and salt for one 
hour before you turn it out. 

No. 174. Cherry Water Ice. 

TAKE a quarter of a pound of preserved cherries 
sweet ; pound them in a morter just to break the stones ; 
then put them into your bason, squeeze in two lemons, 
add on gill of syrup, a pint of water and a little cochi- 
neal ; mix them well together ; pass them, and freeze 
it rich. 

No. 175. Pear Water Ice. 

SQUEEZE three lemons into a bason, add two gills 
of syrup, and a half a pint of water ; rasp four large 
French pears into it ; mix them well and make it pala- 
table, pass it through a lawn sieve and freeze it rich j 



60 THE COMPLETE 

put it into the shape of the pear, and cover the moulds 
■with paper before you put them in the ice. 
No. 176. Mill: fruit Water Ice. 

SQUEEZE three lemons into a bason, add two gills 
of syrup and half a pint of water ; freeze it rich, then 
cut some preserved orange and lemon peel with a little 
angelica in small pieces ; put them with the ice, which 
must be like butter before they are put in ; pass it 
through a sieve before you freeze it, or put your sweet- 
meats in, then put a little cochineal in, but you are not 
to mix that much, only to be a little red here and there, 
as if to run in veins in the ice, but observe you do this 
before you put it into the moulds. 

No. 177. Bergamot Water Ice, 

SQUEEZE three lemons into a bason, add two gills 
of syrup, half a pint of water and half a tea spoonful of 
essence of bergamot, pass it and freeze it rich before 
you put it into your moulds. 

No. 188. Cedraty Water Ice. 

TAKE four ounces of essence of cedraty, put it into 
a bason, squeeze in three lemons, and add two gills of 
syrup, and half a pint of water ; then pass it through a 
sieve, freeze it rich, and if you would have it in the 
shape of the cedraty, after you have filled your mould, 
close it well and cover it with half a sheet of brown pa- 
per before you put it in the ice. 

No. 179. Fresh Strawberry Water Ice. 

TAKE half a pottle of strawberries, pick the stalks 
from them, pass them through a sieve, put in five 
ounces of powdered sugar and one pint of water ; pass 
it and freeze it rich, if it does not freeze rich put some 
syrup in. 



CONFECTIONER. 61 



FRUITS PRESERVED IN BRANDY. 



No. 180. Aiiricots. 

GET the best apricots you can of the palest colour 
cind clear from spots, but not too ripe ; put theni in a 
pan of water, cover them over with paper and put them 
over a very slow fire ; let them simmer till you find 
they are soft , then take them out ; put them in a large 
table cloth four or five double, and cover them up close; 
then have soiViC of the best Fiencii brundy, it must not 
be coloured, but clear like water ; and put ten oonces 
of powdered sugar to every quart of brandy; let the 
sugar melt, then put your apricots u;to a glass jar, fill 
it up with your brandy and cover it up very close with 
leather and bladder, now and then keep filling up your 
jar with brandy, for the apricots suck up a good deal ; 
if you do not cover them close the apricots will lose 
their colour. 

No. 181. Pt aches. 

GET some of the finest peaches, free from ail spot 
colour, what is called the white heart pe^ch ; they come 
in the last in season ; scald them in a stevv pan of water, 
take them out when soft, and put them in a large table 
cloth four or five double ; put ten ounces of powdered 
sugar to every quart of French brandy, white, let your 
sugar melt and stir it well ; put your peaches into a 
glass jar, and pour your brandy over them ; cover them 
very close with leather and bladder, and observe to 
keep your jar filled with brandy. N. B. Mix your 
brandy and sugar before you scald your peaches. 
No. 182. Morclla Cherries. 

GET some of the finest Morclla cherries; cut the 
stalks and leaves from them about half an inch long and 
put them in your glass jar ; put ten ounces of powder- 
ed sugar to every quart of brandy j when the sugar is 



62 THE COMPLETE 

dissolved pour it over your cherries, cover it close with 
the leather and bladder, and keep filling it up. 
No. 183. Mogul Plums. 
TAKE some preserved Mogul plums and drain all 
the syrup from them, put them into your jar, put five 
ounces of sugar to every quart of brandy ; when the 
sugar is melted pour it over your plums, and cover it 
close as before directed. 

No. 184. Green Gages. 
TAKE some preserved green gages, and use the 
same method as your last receipt directs. 
No. 185. Green Or avge Plums. 
TAKE some preserved green orange plums and use 
the same method as before directed. 
No. 186. Grapes. 
TAKE some preserved grapes, and use the sam<^ 
method as before directed. 



CONFECTIONER. 45 



PRESERVED SWEETMEATS, WET. 



No. 187. Green Afiricots^ wet. 

TAKE green apricots when they are the size of a 
^mall wainiit, put them in a bag with a great deal of salt, 
and shake them in it just for the salt to take off the 
silkiness of the skin ; then take them out, put them 
into a large pan with water, place them over a slow fire 
just to scald them, and when you find they grow soft, 
then have a flat preserving pan with a very thin syrup 
boiling in it ; but before you put them in, drain the apri- 
cots well from the water through a sieve ; when the 
syrup boils, put them in, but do not put too many in the 
pan at a time, only let the syrup cover the apricots ; 
but observe you do not crowd them in the pan ; boil your 
syrup about a quarter of an hour, then take them dut, 
put them in a flat earthen pan and cover them with a 
sheet of paper, that no dust can get in ; the next day 
boil them half an hour, and if you find they look well, 
drain the syrup from them through a sieve ; boil the 
syrup twenty minutes, then put the apricots in again and 
just give them two or three boils ; then put them in the 
flat pan and cover them close with paper, minding to 
keep them covered with syrup as it boils ; when your 
syrup is of a fine thickness, and the apricots look well, 
put them in your pots, and when cold put a little apple 
jelly over them to cover the tops. 

No 188. Apricots ripe, wet, 

FIRST take a large knife, split the apricots in half, 
and with a small knife peel them fine ; have a preserv- 
ing pan on the fire with water boiling ; put some of the 
apricots in ; when you find they grow soft, have two 
basons of cold water on each hand and put the softest by 
themselves, as those that are broken will spoil the rest ; 
have a preserving pan on the fire with thin syrup boilr 



64 THE COMPLETE 

ing-, drain all the water from them, and put the hardest 
ones in and let them boil ten minutes, then put them in 
a Hat earthen pan, and cover them witli paper ; then 
have another preserving' pan on the lire with syrup boil- 
iu'^; put the soft ones in and just give them a boil or 
two, then put them in the same pan as the others and 
cover them ; the next day boil the hard ones five mi- 
nutes, and put them in the same pan again, but drain 
the syrup from the soft ones ; boil it and pour it on them 
v/hen hot ; do the same four or five days successively, 
and keep them covered with the syrup, then put them 
in pots, and pour a little apple jelly over the top, and be 
careful the pots are not in the least damp, for that will 
make them work and grow sour. 

No 189. Presei-ved Pine Jjijile C/iips, luet, 

TAKE the top and stalk of the pine apple, chip off 
the ends of the outsides and the bottoms of them ; cut 
the pine apples in slices about the thickness of the fifth 
part of an inch ; take an earthen deep pan, and one 
pound of sugar ; lay some sugar at the bottom of the 
pan, then a layer of the pieces of pine, but not one over 
the other : then put another layer of sugar pretty deep, 
then another of pine, then another of sugar pretty deep, 
and so on till your pan is almost full ; at the top put a 
good deal of sugar pretty deep ; cover them up with 
paper and let them stand till you see the sugar is almost 
melted ; let them and the syrup boil half an hour, then 
put them in the same pan again, the next day give them 
another boil, and so continue eight days, then drain all 
the syrup from them entirely ; if the syrup is too clod- 
den, just dip the chips in a little water ; then wipe them 
and lay them on your sieve to dry ; mind the sieve is 
quite dry ; as you put them into the stove, dust a little 
very fine powdered sugar through a cloth bag over them, 
put them in the stove and let them remain there till you 
think they will not give nor be sticky ; then put them 
in your drawers or box with clean white paper about 
them 

No. 190. Angelica, luet. 

CUT the stalks of the angelica about a foot long, put 
them in a pan of water and boil them till they are quite 
soft J then string the outsides of them, and put them 



CONFECTIONER. 63r 

into a tub of cold water, till they are all done ; drain all 
the water off, lay them in a long earthen pan till it is 
three parts full, pour some boilin^^ syrup over them and 
fill the pan with it, always keeping the angelica covered 
with syrup, and let it stand till next day ; there must 
be a hole in the side of the pan towards the bottom, that 
you may always drain the syrup from the angelica with- 
out disturbing it ; boii the syrup, put it to the angelica 
for eight or nine days successively, and let it remain iu 
the same pan for use. 

No. 191. Barberries in s/n^igs^ wet 

CUT the sides of the barberries open, take the stones 
out of them, tie six bunches to a piece of wood about an 
inch long and about the sixth part of an inch wide, wind 
them on with red thread ; put your barbaries in bunches 
on the sieve, and have a preserving pan with sugar, and 
boil the syrup half an hour; put the barberries in the 
syrup, boil tliem and skim them with paper, give six or 
seven boils, always get the scum clean off; put themi 
in a flat earthen pan and cover them Avith paper ; those 
tied on a stick are called bunches, but what you would 
"wish in sprigs must not be tied to a stick, you may put 
them in pots as other sv/eetmeats. 

No. 192. Easberries "whole,, ivet. 

TAKE some of the finest rasbeiries you can %tt^ 
then with a large pin prick the largest and dryest ; just 
cover the bottom of the sieve with them ; put a pre- 
serving pan on the fire with syiiip in it, boil the syrup 
ten minutes, then put the rasberries in, let them boil, 
and skim them as they boil with whitish brown paper ; 
ten or twelve boils are sufficient, and of all things ob- 
serve that the pots are quite dry before you put your 
rasberries in, for if they are the least damp it will spoil 
your fruit ; the next day cover them with apple jelly, 
and let them stand in the pots two days before you tie 
them up. 

No. 193. Currants in bunches whole ^ wet, 

TAKE some of the best currants you ean get ; stone 
them with a pin and cut them as little as you possibly 
can ; take a small piece of stick with thread, and 'lay 
them on a sieve ; have your preserving pan on the fire 
with your syrup in it, boil the syrup about twenty n\i- 
F 2- 



66 THE COMPLETE 

notes on a brisk fire ; put your currants in bunches into 
the synip ; only cover the bottom of the pan with them, 
nor put two many in ; let them have five or six boils, 
and take the scum off, with paper ; put them in your 
pots,when cold put some apple jelly over the top of them, 
and mind your pots are very dry as before directed. 
No. 194. Cedraties whcle^ wet. 

GET the cedraties at the Italian warehouse ; make a 
>.ole through the middle of them at the thick end ; put 
them in a large preserving pan with water and boil them 
one hour and a half, then drain all the water from them, 
set them up end ways to drain the water out of the 
ends ; boil some syrup in a large preservmg pan twenty 
minutes then put the cedraties into a large earthen deep 
pan, pour the syrup over them and let them stand two 
days before you meddle with them, then boil them with 
syrup half an hour ; (do not let them be loo soft) put 
them into the pan and cover them with paper ; the next 
day drain the syrup from them, boil and pour it on them. 
again, and repeat it so for ten days, always keeping 
them covered with syrup; those done in quarters are 
done the same way only cut long ways before you first 
boil them ; when done put them in your pots, and when 
cold cover them with apple jelly ; take care your pots 
are dry. 

No. 195. Cherries sweet, in syrufi. 

LET your cherries be the best Kentish you can get, 
stone them, put them into a tub with boiling hot syrup 
over them, and cover them till the next day ; then boil 
and put them into tlie tub again, the next day boil them 
softly twenty minutes and put them into the tub again, 
continue this for eight days ; then make a thick syrup 
for them, put them into it, then in an earthen pan or 
pot ; put some apple jelly over the tops and brandy pa- 
pers over them ; if you want to dry sweet cherries, put 
them into your preserving pan, warm them iuid drain 
them well from the syrup through a sieve ; put them 
into the hot stove arid shift the sieve every day till tjiey 
are dry ; then put them into your boxes. Whole cher- 
ries are preserved the same way as those, only you leave 
the stones in and the stalks on them. 



CONFECTIONER. 67 

No. 196. Cherries not svjeet^ Kuet or dry. 

LET your cherries be the best Kentish you can gel, 
and stone them in this manner ; cut a quill as if you 
were going to make a tooth pick, only make the end of 
it round, take hold of the cherry, thrust the quill down 
close to the top of the cherry, holding the stalk at the 
same time that you pull, then the stone will come out 
without tearing the cherry to pieces, which otherwise 
it would do ; when you have done so to all the cherries, 
put them into a tub, and put a large quantity of pow- 
dered sugar over them, so as to put layers of sugar and 
layers of cherries till tlie tub is full ; let them stand two 
or three days till you find all the sugar is melted, 
amongst the juice of the cherries ; then let them have 
one or two boils, pour them into the tub again, and let 
them stand till the next day ; repeat the same four or 
five days successively ; the last time pour what you want 
to dry on a sieve, and when they are all Avell drained, 
have sieves enough to put them on, then put them on 
the bottom of a sie\ e only just to cover the bottom, let 
your stove be very hot; put them in, changing them 
every day, and turn the cherries, they will dry the bet- 
ter, then paper your box, and put them in ; those you 
would wish wet, put them in pots as before directed. 
No. 197. Cucumbers in Girkins^ luet. 

LET your cucumbers be clear, and free from all 
spots, put them in salt and water, let them stand two 
or three days, then take tnem out and drain them well ; 
put them in another pan of water, scald them, put them 
in a tub, and let them stand all night ; then drain the 
water from them, put them into a pan of water, and to 
every two quarts of vvater put half a pint of syrup ; put 
them in, and let them boil over a slow fire five minutes ; 
put them in the tub again, and let them stand till the 
next day ; then boil them again, drain the syrup from 
them, and have a clean pan with the syrup of a proper 
thickness ; let it boil, put the cucumbers into it, arid let 
them boil gently for a quarter of an hour ; then put 
them into a flat brown pan, and cover them ; let them 
stand two days, then drain the syrup from them ; boil 
the syrup one minute, and pour it over them ; the next 
day boil them and the syrup together three or four mi- 



6S THE COMPLETE 

nutes and repeat the same for five days ; then put them, 
in the pots or in a cream pan, and cover them up. 

JV. B. Always observe to let your preserved fruit!i» 
stand two or three days before you put them up. 
No. 198. Comport Golden Pi jipins^ wet. 

LET your golden pippins be the largest and soundest 
you can get ; pare them very fine and clean, bore a 
hole through them large enough to put your little fin- 
ger through ; put some very fine syrup rather thin in 
a preserving pan, peel some lemons very fine, and put 
the peel in the syrup, which must be thinner than any 
thin syrup in the former ingredients ; put your apples 
in and let them simmer over the fire very gently three 
quarters of an hour ; then take them off and when cold 
they are done, then put them in your comfiter for table. 

JV. B. This is a quick way when you want a comport 
in a hurry. 

No. 199. Comfiort French Ptars^ white., wet. 

LET your pears be large and sound ; cut them inta 
quarters long ways ; put them in a pan of water, and 
over the fire which must be slow ; let them simmer 
three quarters of an hour very slowly ; then put lemon 
peel in a pan of thin syrup ; drain all the water from 
them ; when your syrup boils, put them in and give 
them five or six boils ; ti^en put them in an earthen flat 
pan, and the next day boil them aguin, till you think the 
syrup ,is got well into them, tijen keep them into the 
brown pan for use. 

No. 200. Comfiort French Pears red., wet. 

LET your pears be large and sound ; pare and cut 
them in quarters ; prepare them as the former receipt, 
only put cochineal in to colour tiiem, while they are sim- 
mering over the fire ; put in by degrees, till you see 
it becomes a fine red. 

No. 201. Da?nsons whole., wet. 

GET some of the largest and best damsons, and prick 
them with a pin at each end, boiling syrup on a brisk 
fire in your preserving pan for a quarter of an hour ; 
then put your damsons in, and boil them twenty mi- 
nutes ; put tiiCin in an earthen pun, cover theiv, up with 
paper, and skim them as they boil quite clean ; put 
them in your pan j the next day strain the syrup from 



CONFECTIONER. 69 

them, and let it have a good boil ; then Dut the damsons 
into the pots, and when cold put some apple jelly over 
them. 

No. 202. Grafies in bunch fs^ wet. 

STONE your a:rapes with a large pin, have a large 
preserving pan with water in it, put an ounce of salt in 
with the water when cold, and put a sheet of paper 
over them in the water ; let them simmer over a slow 
fire about half an hour; let them stand till cold, put 
them into a brown pan or a little tub with some water 
till the next day, then draw all the water from them ; 
have some thin syrup boiling on the fire, put the grapes 
into it, and when they are in, let them boil five minutes ; 
then take them off, put them into an earthen pan, and 
cover them with paper ; the next day drain the syrup 
fuom them, and boil the syrup a quarter of an hour ; 
then put the grapes in five minutes ; repeat the same 
next day, till the syrup comes to a proper thickness, 
and the grapes look well, but be careful to have syrup 
enough to cover them. 

No. 203. G 00 sherries in the form of ho fLs^ wet. 

GET the finest green goosberries you can, cut them 
into quarters, and take the seeds out of them ; take a 
needle and white thread, make a knot at the end, take 
hold of one of the goosberries that you have cut, and 
push the needle through the end of tie g;cosberry that 
is split, take another and do the same, and make it go 
part of it into the other goosberry, and do so till you have 
got eight on ; then you will find they will be in the form 
of a green hop ; when you liave finished your hop, 
fasten the ends of the thread ; put them into a pan of 
water, scald t'leiii, and put them into a tub with their 
own liquor, that you have scalded them in ; let them lie 
in the tub, three or four days, till they begin to grow 
sour and ferment ; then put them into fresh water over 
the fire till they become hot, but not to boil, observe 
to put a little sugar into the water, and they will green ; 
drain all that away from the hops and lay the hops regu-' 
larly in an earthen pan ; boil some thin syrup and put 
o' er them ; give them a boil once a day, till you think 
they are done, and keep them in an earthen pan, till you 
want to dry them. 



70 THE COMPLETE. 

No. 204. Green goosberries, ivet. 

LET your goosberries be the largest and finest yoti 
can get, put them over the fire to scald, but do not let 
them boil, put them into a tub and let them stand three 
days ; then drain all the liquor from them, put them 
into another pan with water, and a little syrup with the 
water ; let them be over the fire till they warm, but not 
to boil, only just to come green ; the next day strain all 
the liquor from them, put the goosberies into an earthen 
pan, and pour some thin syrup over them boiling hot ; 
repeat it once a day for six days ; make the syrup come 
thicker by degrees, and then put them into the pots. 
No. 205. -Lemons nvhoh^ wet. 

GET some large clear lemons that have no spots, 
carve, the outside of them with a knife as you like; 
scoop a hole at the stalk of them, that you may put 
your little finger in, that the syrup may penetrate the 
inside ; have a large preserving pan with water, put the 
lemons into the water, cover them with paper, and let 
them boil gently, till you find them grow tender ; then 
have some thin syrup, boiling on the fire, drain all the- 
water from the lemons quite dry ; put the lemons into 
a small tub, pour the syrup over them, and cover them 
with paper ; let them stand till the next day, then drain 
the syrup from the lemons, and boil it a quarter of an 
hour ; then put the lemons into the tub again, pour the 
syrup over them, and let them stand till the next day ; 
then boil the lemons and syrup together for twenty mi- 
nutes ; put them into the tub again, keep the lemons 
covered with syrup, and if you find it shrink, put more 
syrup to it the next day ; repeat the same boiling, and 
w hen you find the syrup has penetrated the lemons, and 
they are clear, take a clean large preserving pan with 
more syrup, and boil it till it is pretty thick ; drain the 
old syrup from the lemons, put them into the tub, pour 
the other syrup that is boiling over them, and let them 
stand three or four days before you look at them, tlien 
if you find they have not sucked in the syrup enough, 
you may drain the syrup from them, and give them 
another boil for a quarter of an hour ; pour it boiling 
over thcjn, and always keep them in a flat earthen pan. 



CONFECTIONER. 71 

No. 206. Seville Oranges^ luhole^ nvet. 

TAKE some of the largest Seville oranges you can 
get, and very clear from all spots ; carve the outsicles 
of them in flowers or according to your own funcy ; bore 
a hole at the stalk end of them, about ti\e size of half 
your little finger ; put them into cold water, for where 
you have carved them the rind will turn black ; let them 
be in cold water about four or five hours ; then put them 
on the fire in a large copper pan, and boil them slowly 
about four hours ; then take them out of the water and 
turn them with the end thyt has the hole undermost 
upon a sieve, that all the water may drain out of them ; 
let some thin syrup boil a quarter of an hour in another 
pan, put the oranges in and boil them ten minutes ; 
then put them in a small tub, pour the syrup overihem 
and cover them with paper ; the next day boil the oran- 
ges and syrup together a quarter of an hour on a brisk 
fire ; put them into the tub again and let them stand till 
next day ; then drain the syrup from them and boil it 
twenty minutes, observing to keep them well covered 
in the syrup ; continually boiling your syrup, and put- 
ting it over the oranges for six or eight days till you find 
they are tender, and have taken the syrup ; let them 
stand five or six days in the syrup, give the syrup five 
or six boils again, and pour it over the oranges in a large 
flat earthen pan, in which keep them for use. 
No. 207. Orange iieds^ ivet, 

GET some of the finest Seville orange peels clean 
from spots ; put them into a copper pan, if you have a 
great number to do, and boil them two hours ; scrape 
the inside of them clean, that none of the pitch re*» 
main ; place the peels one in another round a small 
tub, till the tub is almost full ; pour a great deal of syrup 
over them till they are covered ; let them stand two or 
three days before you touch them ; make a hole at the 
bottom of the tub, drain the syrup from the peels, boil 
and pour it over them ; let them stand for two days, 
then boil your syrup again, and let them stand for four 
or five days running ; then drain all the syrup from them, 
and pour it when boiling on them again ; let them re- 
main in the tub till you are going to candy them, then 



72 THE COMPLETE 

take them out, and wash them when you Want them. 

JV. B. Observe to keep them well covered with 
syrup. 

No. 208. Orange chilis ^ wet. 

TAKE some Seville oraneje peels, cut a bung or 
piece of cork round, so that it will go into the orange ; 
with a sharp pen-knife pare them round, which we call 
turning, and cut your chips about the third part of an 
inch long; and nearly the same thickness; put them 
into a pan of water, and boil them gently over the fire 
one hour and a half ; have another p n with syrup boil- 
ing ; drain ail the water from the cliips, put them into 
the syrup and boil them for aquurter of an hour ; then 
put them into a large earthen pan, or small tub, cover 
them, and let them stand till next day ; ti.en boil them 
again witlit^e syrup a quarter of an hour; put them 
into the tub again, repeat this for four or five times ; 
then put them into a large pan, not into pots, cover 
them well with syrup, and keep them for use. 
No. 200. Lemon chijis^ ivet» 

TAKE some fine lemon peels, pare off all the rind 
with a knife, cut it all into pieces, if you can about a 
quarter of an inch wide ; put them into a cabbage net, 
and into a preserving pan with water ; boii them quite 
tender, then have another pan wiih syrup boiling, and 
when the chips are boiled enough in the water, take 
them out of the net and put them into the boiling 
syrup. 

JV*. B, Let them be well drained before you put them 
into the syrup, and let them boil a quarter of an hour ; 
then put them into a large earthen pan and let them 
stand till next day ; then drain the syrup from them 
and boil it ten minutes, and pour it over them ; cover 
them till the next day, then boii the chips and syrup to- 
gether twenty minutes and putjthem into the tub again ; 
keep them covered with the syrup, and when you think 
it is well soaked in them, boil them all togetJier ; put 
them into your tub till you want to candy. 
No. 210. Lemon pet Is, wet. 

TAKE the largest and clearest lemon peels you can 
get, and throw into a large presci ving pan with water ; 
let them boil till you find them quite soft and tender, then 



CONFECTIONER. 73 

take them one at a time out of the water, and with a 
table spoon take all the pith out of the inside clean 
from them ; throw them into a tub of cold water as 
you do them ; let them stand in the water four or five 
days, then put your lemon peels one within the other, 
and place them round a large deep tub ; have a large 
preserving pan of syrup boiling over the fire, pour 
some of the syrup over them, and cover the tub; let 
them stand two days and bore a hole at the bottom of 
the tub to let the syrup out ; boil the syrup three or 
four minutes, pour it over the peels again and keep 
them always well covered with syrup : repeat boiling 
the syrup in this manner for eight or ten days ; then 
keep them in the syrup in the tub till you want to can- 
dy them. 

No. 211. Pears, wet. 

GET some baking pears that are of a very hard na- 
ture, put the pears in a large preserving pan with wa- 
ter ; let them simmer over the fire till you find them 
rather soft ; take them out of the boiling water with a 
skimmer, and put them into a bason with cold water ; 
pare them in tliis manner, first cut off the end of the 
pear, then hold the stalk end in your hand, and brinp* 
your knife down the skin straight, so as to make the skin 
come off in five pieces all rovuid the pear ; throw them 
into another bason with cold water ; have the preserv- 
ing pan with syrup in it, let the syrup boil ten min- 
utes ; then put the pears in ; but first drain the water 
well from them, let them boil in the syrup again about 
ten minutes, skim it with paper, boil them in the same 
manner six days, draining the syrup off the paper every 
time till the syrup is of a fine thickness ; let them re- 
main in this syrup till you want to candy them. 
No. 212. Green Orange Plums, %vet. 

LET your plums be the soundest and best you can 
get, prick them with a fork and put them into cold wa- 
ter ; have a very thin syrup, so thin as to be hardly 
sweet ; scald them in it and let them have but one gen- 
tle boil ; put them in an earthen pan, let them stand till 
the next day, then drain all the syrup from them, boil 
and pour it over them ; repeat the same eight or nine 
days successively, then let them have a gentle boil and 
G 



74 THE COMPLETE 

put them in your pots, observe that your pots are not 
the least damp ; put some apple jelly over them when 
cold ; let it be three days before you tie them up,* and 
keep them and all other sweetmeats in a dry place. 
No. 213. Mogul Plujns^ nvet. 

TAKE the largest mogul plums you can get with 
clear skins, prick them with a fork about ten or a dozen 
times, mostly about the stalk ; throw them into cold 
■water, otherwise they will turn black where you have 
pricked them, put them over the fire just to scald 
them, have a pan half full of boiling syrup, drain all the 
plums from the water through a sieve and put them 
into the syrup, do not put too many in, only just to 
cover the bottom of the pan ; boil the plums and the 
syrup ten minutes, then put them into a flat earthen 
pan and cover them with paper ; the next day drain the 
syrup from them through a sieve, let the syrup boil, 
put the plums in it and let them boil together ; put 
them into the same pan and repeat the same five or six 
days ; it is best to keep these plumbs in a flat earthen 
pan, till you want to dry any of them. 

No. 214. Pine Ajiples^ vohole^ ivet, 

TAKE the pine apple, chip off all the small pieces of 
leaves from the bottom of every pine, take the top and 
stalk, and have a preserving pan on the fire with wa- 
ter, and to every two quarts of water put half a pint of 
syrup, so as to make it very fine thin syrup, and only 
just sweet ; be sure that it boils before you put the 
pines in, and let theni simmer an hour over the fire ; the 
next day let them boil gently another hour, take them 
off and cover them carefully, the next day let them boil 
gently about half an hour ; put mor^ syrup as thick as 
you use to other fruits, the next day drain this syrup off 
and boil it, repealing the same seven or eight days ; 
then put them into an earthen pan, and cover them up 
very carefully from any dust, and be very careful that 
your pans are very dry. 

No. 225. A small Yclloiv Plum wet. 

LET your plums be clear from spots, run a fork in 
once at each end and no more, you must not Iiave 
the plums too ripe, put them in water as you prick 
them J boil a pan of syrup ten minutes j drain all the 



CONFECTIONER. 75 

water tVom the plums and put them in the syrup ; boil 
and skim them, repeat the same four or five days ; then 
put them carefully into pots, mind do not break them 
for they are very tender, and take care ycur pots are very 
dry ; let them stand two days before you put them by ; 
cut small pieces of writing paper, dip them in brandy 
and put it over your fruit in every pot, this should be 
done to all fruits, it must be put close that no air can get 
in, then another paper over that ; tie them up. 
Ao. 216. Stra-i.vberries^ ivhole-) wet, 

OBSERVE to get the strawberries for this purpose 
in very dry weather, that if it had not rained for three 
or four days, pick the largest and finest you can get ; put 
some syrup into a preserviPig pan, boil it over a brisk fire 
for half an hour and put your strawberries in while it 
boils, do not put many into the pan only one strawberry 
deep ; let them boil twenty minutes and take oiT all the 
scum with paper very carefully ; if you find they are 
like to break, take them off immediately and put them 
into your pots, when cold put apple jelly over, and be 
very careful that your pots are not the least damp. 
No. 217. J/iricot Chi/is^wet, 

TAKE the chips that you cut off the apricots, and 
some powdered sugar ; take a brown pan, lay a layer of 
chips and then a layer of sugar over them, and so on till 
your pan is full ; let them stand till the sugar is ail 
melted, boil them and put them into the pan again ; boil 
them the next day, and so repeat boiling them ten or 
eleven days successively ; then have proper syrup and 
put them in a brown pan till you want to dry them. 
No. 218. Green Gages, ivet 

LET your green gages be very sound, prick them 
with a fork six or seven times or more about the stalks ; 
put them into cold water, or else they will turn black ; 
scald them, and have another preserving pan with boil- 
ing syrup ; drain the water from the gages and put them 
into a deep earthen pan ; place them regularly and pour 
the boiling syrup over them ; let them stand till next 
day, then drain all the syrup from them ; boil it again, 
and put it over them ; repeat so for seven or eight days, 
then take another flat earthen pan, drain the syrup 



re THE COMPLETE 

from them, place your gages in this pan ; boil some 
fresh syriipforhalfanhourandpour it over them, cove? 
them up till you %vant them ; you. may put some into 
pots if you like. 



CONFECTIONER. 7f 



DRIED FRUITS< 



No. 219. Damsons Dried, 

TAKE damsons that you have preserved, drain all 
the syrup from them, cover the bottoms of the sieves 
and put them into your stoves which must be hot, 
change the sieves every day till they are dry, and as 
you change the sieves turn your damsons, and when 
they are not sticky nor likely to give, take them out and 
paper a box and put them in, and lay a paper between 
every layer of damsons 

No. 220. Mogul Plums^ dried. 

TAKE mogul plums that you have preserved, drain 
all the syrup from them, wash them in a bason of water 
and lay them on a sieve ; put them into the stove v/hich 
must be pretty hot, turn them next day on another sieve, 
and let them stand in the stove two or three days ; then 
put them in your box papered, and lay a sheet of paper 
between every layer of plums. 

No. 221. Green Orange Plums^ dried. 

Take green orange plumbs that you have preserved, 
drain all the syrup from them, wash them in a bason of 
water, put them on sieves and into the stove ; change 
the sieves and turn them every day on clean sieves ; 
put them in your box, and use the same care and me- 
thod as before directed. 

No. 222. Green Gages, dried, 

TAKE preserved green gages, and put them over 
the fire to warm, drain all the syrup from them, put 
them on the sieves and into the stove ; change them 
every day and turn them, else they will stick ; let them 
be in three days, and then put them in the boxes as be- 
fore directed. 

No. 223. Pears candied, or dried. 

TAKE the pears out of the syrup, and put the:n on 
wires or a lars-e sieve- drain all the svrup from them, 
' G2 



fS THE COMPLETE 

wash them in -vvarm water to get the syrup off them, 
drain them quite dry ; then have a pan of syrup on the 
lire boiling, and let it boil till it comes to blow, take the 
pan off the fire, and take a spoon and rub it on the sides 
of the pan till you see it turn white ; then put your 
pears in, and take them out, put them on a wire, and 
let them stand till cold, then put them in your box. 
No. 224. Cherries^ sweety dried. 

TAKE your cherries and syrup, warm them over 
the fire, drain all the syrup from them, put them on the 
back of the sieves just to cover the bottoms ; put them 
into the stove the next day, change the sieve, put them 
in the stove again, and let them stand three or four 
days in the stove ; let them be well dried before you 
put them in your boxes, for if they are not, they will 
grow sour and be full of maggots ; paper them as be- 
fore directed. 

No. 225. Cherries^ not sweet, dried. 

TAKE the cherries that you preserved not sweet, 
■warm them, put them on your sieves and let all the 
juice run from them ; then while hot put them on the 
sieves, change them every day and let them be in the 
stove four or five days, afterwards move them about in 
the sieves till they are thoroughly dry, then paper your 
boxes as before directed. 

No. 226. Ap-ricot Chifis, dried. 

TAKE your apricot chips, put them over the fire to 
warm, and drain all the syrup from them ; then make 
the chips the size you please, put them on the sieve as 
you make them, dust some sugar over them through a 
bag, and put them in the stove ; let them be there two 
days, changing the sieves once or they will stick ; when 
dry, paper and put them in your boxes. 

No. 227. Orange or Lemon Cliijis, candied or dried. 

TAKE your preserved orange or lemon chips, wash 
them from the syrup with warm water, and the syrup 
you drain Aom them boil till it comes to blow ; put the 
chips in and rub the sugar at the sides with the spoon all 
round till you see the syrup all candy ; then take the 
chips out with two forks, and put them on a wire for the 
sugar to drain off ; let them stand till cold, and then 
put them In your boxes as before. 



CONFECTIONER, 79 

No. 228. Angelica Knots^ dried. 

Take stalks of preserved aiagelica, take them out 
of your pan, wash all the syrup from them with warm 
water, cut them in slips about a quarter of an inch long, 
and the length of the angelica when first preserved j 
double then into whatever form you like, and if you can, 
tie them into the form of a true lover's knot ; put them 
on sieves and into the stove, let them stand till they are 
quite dry and ready to be candied. 

No. 229. Barberries in bunches^ dried. 

TAKE some preserved barberry bunches, put them 
over the fire to warm, then on a sieve, let all the syrup 
drain well from them, then have your sieves ready and 
put them on ; dust some powdered sugar over them 
through a bag ; put them in the stove and let them re* 
main there till they are quite dry, changing your sieves 
and turning the bunches ; they must stand in the stove 
four days ; paper your box, and put them in as before 
directed. 

.Y. B* The above method, does for currants. 
No. 230, Lemon Peeh^ candied or dried. 

TAKE some preserved lemon peels, wash them in 
warm water and put them on a sieve to drain ; boil some 
syrup on the fire till it comes to blow, and put your 
peels in ; as soon as they are covered with sugar take 
them out again, put them on wires for all the sugar to 
drop through ; then let them stand till cold and put 
them in your boxes. 

A*. B. Do orange peel in the same manner. 
No. 231. Cucumbersn, dried. 

TAKE some preserved cucumbers, w^ash all the 
syrup from them, put them on your sieves to drain, 
then into your stove to dry, one day is enough for them 
to dry ; afterwards put them in your boxes as before di- 
rected. 

No. 232. Green Afiricota.^ dried 

TAKE some preserved green apricots, wash them in 
a little warm water, put them on your sieves into a hot 
stove, changing your sieves every day ; let them re* 
main two or three days in the stove until they are well 
dried, then put them into your boxes prepared, and 
cover them as before directed. • . 



86 THE COMPLETE 

No. 233. Aliricots full groivn^ dried. 

TAKE your apricots full grown that you have pre- 
served whole, or those in halves ; wash them in warm 
water, put them on sieves reguarly, not to let them 
touch one another ; put them into a hot stove for two or 
three clays, changing the sieves every day j when dry 
put them into your boxes. 

No. 234. Grapes in bundles^ dried. 

TAKE some preserved grapes, wash them with 
warm water, put them on your sieves, and into a hot 
stove, keep turning of them every day, changing your 
sieves ; when well dried put them into your boxes. 
No. 235. Pine Afiple Chips., dried, 

TAKE your slices of pine apples that you have in 
syrup, and wash them in warm v/ater, then put them on 
your sieves in such a manner that they do not touch 
each other, then take some fine powdered sugar, put it 
into a fine linen bag and just shake it over them ; keep 
turning of them every day for three or four days in a 
hot stove ; wl\en dry put them into your papered box 
with writing paper between every layer. 

No. 236. Cedrates^ whole or in quarters., dried. 

TAKE your preserved cedraties either whole or in 
quarters, wash them in a little warm water ; boil some 
syrup in another pan till it comes to blow ; take a large 
spoon and rub it well to the sides of the pan till it comes 
white ; dip your cedrates in, take them out and put them 
on your wires over another pan ; let them drain well, 
then put them into a "not stove on the wires for one day, 
till the candy dries all around them ; when well dried put 
them into your boxes as before directed. 

No. 237. Faste Knots, red or luhite. 

PARE some large apples, and cut them into a preser- 
ving pan, Vy'ith just water enough to come up to the top 
of the apples ; let them boil till they come to marma- 
lade, then pass it through a sieve into a fiat brown pan ; 
t'dke some cochineal ana mix it with the apples to make 
them a fine colour ; have another preserving pan with 
as much syrup in it as you have got apples, and boil the 
syrup until it comes to blow ; take the syrup of!'the fire 
and mix the apples with it in the pan ; have sheets or 
plates made of pewter, about a foot ands half long and 



CONFECTIONER. 81 

about ten inches %vide, with edges turned about the 
eighth part of an inch, to prevent the paste from falling 
or running off; cover your plates with your paste and 
put it into your stove, which must be hot; let them re- 
main till next day, then take another pewter sheet and 
with a knife cut the paste round the edges and across 
the plates, scores about a quarter of an inch wide ; then 
pull it off, and if it comes off easy it is dried enough ; 
when you have got it off in long strings, try to make 
them into knots according to your fancy ; put them on 
the other plate, then into the stove, and let them stand in 
the stove two days ; then take them out ; when they are 
cold put them into papered boxes, and let them remain 
their until you want to candy them 

No. 238. Perfetto Amore. 

FOR four bottles of brandy, you are to peel six large 
and fresh lemons, the peel is to be very thin ; it is to 
be cut in small bits ; and put in the brandy with a little 
salt, half a handful of currants, five coriander seeds, five 
cloves, and a little cinnamon. The whole is to be infu- 
sed together for twelve hours, from which you are to 
draw off only two bottles of spirit ; then you are to take 
two pounds of sugar, boiled and clarified, in two bottles 
of water with three eggs, this is a red liquor ; therefore 
you are to take a little roche-alum, which you must mix 
in a little boiling water, and a little cream of tartar ; mix 
them in a small mortar ; then throw it in the liquor ; but 
first you are to strain it ; then mix them altogether, and 
filter it through blotting paper. 

No. 239. Persico. 

FOR four bottles of brandy, you are to take four 
handfuls of bitter almonds of the best quality, and they 
must be very fresh, they are to be cut in small bits, with 
a little salt, two cloves, and a little cinnamon ; put all in 
the brandy : they are to be infused for twenty hours ; 
S^ke two bottles of spirit ; two pounds of sugar, with two 
bottles of water, without clarifying it, as this liquor will 
clarify of itself. 

No. 240. Jnniseed. 

FOR four bottles of brandy, you must take half a 
pound of anniseeds, and a quarter of a pound of fennel, 
three cloves to be cut in small bits, with a little salt ; 



82 THE COMPLETE 

put all ill the brandy ; it is to be infused twelve hours 
before you distil it ; two pounds of sugar must be cla- 
rified, with two bottles and a half of water, with the 
white of two or three ei^gs well beat together. 
No. 241. Conndla or Cinnamoru 

FOR four bottles of brandy, you must take four 
ounces of cinnamon of the best quality, thirty cloves, 
thirteen coriander seeds, a little salt, mixed together in 
brandy, let it infuse for eighteen hours ; you are to take 
from the still as much as you can ; two pounds of sugar 
clarified in two bottles and a half of water, vvith two or 
three whites of eggs well beat together, mixed with the 
spirit, and filtered througii blotting paper ; after yoil 
have mixed the spirit, take care to cork your bottles 
well. 

No. 242. Coffee. 

FOR four bottles of brandy, take one pound of coffee 
in powder, the very best Turkey ; a little salt, two cloves, 
a little cinnamon ; tiien mix altogether for twelve hours 
before you distil it ; two pounds of sugar, two bottles 
and half a pint of water clarified with whites of eggs, 
filtered through the paper. 

No. 243. Ckocolat'^. 

FOR four bottles of brandy, take one pound of the 
best chocolate, cut in small bits, a little salt, two cloves, 
and a little cinnamon ; you are to infuse all in the brandy ; 
two pounds of sugar clarified in two bottles and half a 
pint of water, with whites of eggs, and filter it through 
the paper. 

J\r. B. You must be particular not to take more than 
two bottles from every four, except from the cinnamon, 
from which you are to take as much as you can get. 
No. 244. Damson Cheese. 

PICK the damsons free from stalks, leaves, &c. put 
them into ajar, tie white paper over them, bake them in 
a slow oven till quite soft, rub them through a cullen« 
der while hot, put the pulp and juice which has passed 
through the cullender into a stew-pan with fine powder- 
ed sugar to your taste, boil it over a moderate fire till it 
is as stiff as you can possibly stir it, which will take 
three hours ; keep stirring it to prevent it burning to 
the pan, and a few minutes before you take it off the 



CONFECTIONER. m 

fire put the kernels of the damsons into the pan, and 
mix with it, put it into cups or moulds, let it stand a day, 
and cut some pieces of writing paper the size of the 
tops of the cups or moulds, dip them in brandy and put 
close over them ; put them in a dry place and they will 
keep for several years. 

jV. B. You m^y make plum orbullace cheese in the 
same way : it is necessary to take the skins off the ker- 
nels before you put them into the pan. 
No. 245. ylpfil^ Cheese. 

PARE and quarter your apples take out the cores, put 
them into a deep pot or jar, and put the paring and cores 
at the top, let them bake in a moderate over, till quite 
soft, take off the parings, cores, and bits of apple which 
are at the top, if they are dry or hard ; tben put your 
apples into a stew-pan, with fine powdered sugar to your 
taste, and boil them four hours till it is quite stiff, put it 
in moulds or cups, and lay paper over it moistened with 
brandy, set it in a dry place and in three weeks it will 
cut quite smooth. 

J\\ B, You may add a little of the rind of a lemon 
grated, or a few drops of essence of lemon before you 
put it into the moulds, also a few blanched almonds cut 
into small pieces and mixed with it. 

No. 246. Lemon Pudding. 

PUT half a pound of fresh butter, and half a pound 
of lump sugar into a sauce-pan, and keep it stirring over 
the fire till it boils, put it into an earthen pot and grate 
the rind of a large lemon into it, and let it stand till it 
is cold, beat eight eggs and squeeze the juice of the 
lemon on them, mix the sugar and butter with them, 
put them into a dish with a good puff paste at the bot- 
tom, put bits of candied lemon peel in the dish upon the 
paste. To be baked in the usual manner. 
No. 247. Carrot Pudding. 

WASH and scrape your carrots, and boil them till 
quite soft, in a good quantity of water,take off the outsides 
and grate a quarter of a pound of the middle part of the 
carrots, add to it a quarter of a pound of clarified butter, 
four eggs well beat, and sugar and brandy to your taste, 
bake it in a dish with a puff paste at the bottom, and caa- 
died orange or lemon peel. 



U THE COMPLETE 

No. 248. Citron Pudding. 

BOIL some Windsor beans quite soft, take off the 
skins, and beat a quarter of a pound in a mortar till 
quite fine, then add a quarter of a pound of clarified 
butter, four eggs, well beat, and sugar and brandy to 
your taste, put a puff paste in the dish and a good quan- 
tity of citron, cut in long bits, and laid upon the paste, 
put the pudding into a dish and bake it in a moderate 
oven. 

No. 249. Mice Cake. 

ONE pound of rice flower, three quarters of a pound 
of lump sugar, beat and sifted, nine eggs, and one tea 
spoonful of essence of lemon, beat the eggs before you 
mix it, then put in the other ingredients and beat it half 
an hour ; bake it in a quick oven : it is fit to eat as soon 
as it is cold, and is best when new. 

No. 250. Rice Cheese Cake. 

STEEP a quarter of a pound of ground rice in milk 
Over the fire till it is quite soft, put it into an earthen 
pot and add a quarter of a pound of butter, keep stirring 
it till the butter is melted,* cover it close and let it stand 
till the next day, then add a quarter of a pound of cur- 
rants washed and dried thoroughly, three eggs well beat, 
two table spoonfuls of ratafia, or brandy, and sugar and 
nutmeg to your taste, bake it in your patty pans with puff 
paste at the bottom. 

^V. B. Be careful not to have more m.ilk than the rice 
requires, if it is two thin the currants will sink to the 
bottom. 



THE END. 



INDEX, 



A 

Almonds, the way to blanch - - - - 23 

burnt, red 35 

burnt, white - - - - . 36 

Almond paste ----__ 37 

fagots - '- - - - . 26 

cake, a small fine - - - - 28 

Anniseed - - - - - _ . 81 

Apple cheese - - - - - - 83 

B 

Biscuits, fine Savoy - 4 - - - - 13 

fine spunge - " - - - - I3 

orange heart - - - - - 14 

Naples 14 

syringe I5 

robe de chambre - - - - 1 5 

common Savoy - - - - 16 

sweetmeat - - - - - 16 

monkey 16 

spice - - - - - - 17 

toad in a hole - - - - . 17 

millefruit - - - - , 18 

masapan ----- 18 

judges 19 

Yarmouth 20 

king's 20 

chocolate 20 

Italian water ----- 20 

lemon ------ 23 

~a 25 



ratafi 



oi-ange 25 

filbert - - - - - - 25 

pistachio nuts - - - _ 25 

orange flower - - - . « 26 

fresh apricot ----- 27 

II 



86 



INDEX. 



Biscuits, fresh Barberry 

fresh damson, or refined cheese 
Blomonge - - . 
C 

Cakes, Queen 

Water, with carraway seeds 

fine Shrewsbury 

fine ginger 

rasberry 

Seville orange paste 

a small fine almond 

a large rich two guinea 

a small rich seed 

a small rich plum 
Comfits, carraway of all sorts 

cardamom 
Crocont, carimel 
Cornelia or Cinnnamon 
Coffee 
Chocolate 
Carrot Pudding 
Citron Pudding 



D 



Drops, bergamot 

black currant 

chocolate 

damson 

Seville orange 

lemon 

orange 

pepperment 

violet 

barley sugar 



DRIED FRTJ 

Dried damsons 
Dried, mogul plums 

green orange plums 

green gages 

pears, or candied . 

cherries, sweet 



ITS. 



27 
27 
40 



INDEX. 



87 



Dried, cherries, not sweet 

apricot chips 

orange or lemon chips 

angelica knots 

barberries in bunches 

lemon peels, or candied 

cucumbers 

green apricots, 

apricots full grown 

grapes in bunches 

pine apple chips 

cedrates whole or in quarters 

paste knots, red or white 
Damson cheese 

Essence, cedraty 
lemon 
orange 

Fagots, fine almond 
Floating island 
Filberts, burnt, white 

J 
Jumbles, Seville orange 
Jelly, currant, red and white 
rasberry, for ices 
apple 
hartshorn 
calves foot 
black currant 
gooseberry 
Jam, rasberry 
apricot 
strawberry 
barberry 
Jam, peach 
plum 

Iceing, for a rich cake 
Ice cream, barberry 

rasberry 

strawberry 



88 



INDEX. 



Ice cream, apricot . 
pine apple 
currant 



pestachio 
biscuit . 
plain 

brown bread . 
royal 
ginger 

fresh strawberry- 
fresh rasberry 
fresh apricot . 
coffee 
chocolate 
Seville orange 
lemon 

China orange 
burnt filbert . 
burnt 
millefruit 
fresh currant 
cedraty 
burnt almonds 
Parmasan cheese 
damson 
prunello 
peach 

black currant 
cherry . 



Lemonade 
Orangeade 
Lemon pudding 



M 



Maccaroons, French 
En{;iish 
Merings, in the form of eggs 
Millefruit, rock candy 

N 
Nuts, fine sweetmeat gingerbread 

O 
Orgeat 



22 



50 



INDEX, 

syrup 

paste . . . 
Prawlongs, lemon 
orange 

pistachio, red 
pistachio, white 
burnt filbert, red 
orange flower 
Paste, almond 
orgeat 
Perfetto amore 



89 



TO PRESERVE FRUITS IN BRANDY. 



Preserved apricots in brandy . 
Preserved peaches ditto 

morella cherries ditto 

mogul plums in brandy . 

green gages, ditto . 

green orange plums, ditto 

grapes ditto 



TO PRESERVE SWEETMEATS, WET. 



To preserve green apricots, wet 
apricots ripe, ditto 
pine apple chips ditto 
angelica, ditto 
barberries in sprigs, ditto 
rasberries whole, ditto 
currants in bunches whole ditto 
cedrates, whole ditto 
cherries, not sweet, wet or dry 
cucumbers and girkins, wet 
comport goldc!! pippins, ditto 
comport French pears, white, ditto 
comport French pears, red, ditto 
damsons whole ditto 
grapes in buncbes, ditto 
goosberries ia the form of hops, do 
green goosberries, ditto 
lemons whole, wet 



90 



INDEX. 



To preserve Seville orange, ditto 
orange peels, ditto 
orange chips, ditto 
lemon chips, ditto 
lemon peels, ditto 
pears, ditto 
green orange plums, ditto 
mogul plums, wet 
pine apples whole, ditto 
a small yellow plum, ditto 
strawberries whole ditto 
apricot chips, ditto 
green gages, ditto 
R 
Rusks, French . . • . 

Rice cuke .... 
Rice cheese, cakes . 

S 
Syrup, orgeat 
lemon 
orange 

Seville orange 
pine apple 
capiliaire 
Sugar, rock, of all colours 
barley 

to clarify for sweetmeats 
T 
Turtulongs, fine, for breakfast 
Trifle, a whip for 



W 



Wafers, lemon • . 
barberry 
orange 
bergamot . 
violet 

pepperment 
Water, currant, made of j 
Water, fresh currant 
cedraty 

rasberry, of jam 
fresh rasberry 



elly 



INDEX. 



91 



Water, bergamot 
apricot 

strawberry, of jam 
fresh strawberry 
peach 
pear 

: cherry 
Water ice, barberry 

rasberiy 

strawberry . 

apricot 

pine apple 

chocolate • 

Seville orange 

C hin ^ orange 

leir?^ , 

punch 

peach . 

currant 

fresh currant 

fresh rasberry 

damson 

prunello 

black currant 

grape . 

cherry 

pear 

millefruit 

ber^amot 

cedrctty 

fresh strawberry 
Whip syllabub, everlasting, to put in glasses 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



3 9999 05987 673 8 



Boston Public Library 
Central Library, Copley Square 

Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
book should be returned to the Library. 

Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket. 



•r2.V 



