THE ART 

OF 

PRESERVING 

ALL KINDS OF 

Animal and Vegetable Substances 

FOR 

SEVERAL YEARS. 
BY M. APPERT. 

X WORK PUBLISHED BY ORDER OF THE FRENCH MINISTER OF THE 
INTERIOR, ON THE REPORT OF THE BOARD OF 
ARTS AND MANUFACTURES. 

TRANSLATED FROM THE FRENCH. 

FROM THE SECOND LONDON EDITION OF 1812 

IS EW- YORK: 
PUBLISHED BY D. LONG WORTH, 

SHAK SPEAR E GALLERY. 

1812. 



C. S. VAN WINKLE, PRINTER, 

Water-street, New-Yqrk. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



defective Bot 



Advertisement, . . . 
Letter of the Minister of the Interior, 
Certificate of the Board of Arts, 
Letter to General Caffarelli from the Council of Health, 
Sect. 1. The Art of Preserving, &c. 

2. Description of my Rooms, &c. 

3. Of Bottles and Vessels, 

4. Of Corks, 

5. Of Corking, . 

6. The means of distinguishing 
ties, &c. 

t)escriptionof the Author's Process, 
Sect. 7. Boiled Meat, . 

8. Gravy, 

9. Broth, or Jelly, 

10. Round of Beef, Fillet of Mutton, Fowls, and 

young Partridges 

11. New-laid eggs, 

12. Milk, . 

13. Cream, 

14. Whey, . 

15. Vegetables, 

16. Green Peas, 

17. Asparagus, 

18. Windsor Beans, 

19. Peeled Windsor Beans, 

20. French Beans, 

21. Artichokes, 

22. Cauliflowers, . 

23. Sorrel, 

24. Spinage, Succory, and other Herbs, 

25. A Soup called Julienne, 

26. Vegetable Soup, 

27. Love- Apples, 

28. Herbs and Medicinal Plants, 

29. The Juices of Herbs, . 

30. Fruits and their Juices, 

31. White and Red Currants in Bunches, 

32. White and Red Currants stripped, 

33. Cherries, Raspberries, Mulberries, 

34. Juice of Red Currants, 

35. Strawberries, 



Pag(* 
5 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



Sect. 36. Apricots, . , . . . 59 

37. Peaches and Nectarines, . . . 60 

38. Prunes from Green-Gages and Plumbs, . 61 

39. Pears of every kind, . . * 62 

40. Chesnuts, Truffles, and Mushrooms, . . 63 

41. The Juice of the Grape or Must, . . 64 
Of the Mode of making use of the Substances which have 

been preserved, . . . .65 

Sect. 42. Meat, Game, Poultry, Fish, . , 65 

43. Jellies made of Meat and Poultry, . . 67 

44. Milk and Cream, . . . . 67 

45. Vegetables, - . . . . 68 

46. French Beans, . . N . . 69 

47. Peas, Beans, &c. . . . . 69 

48. Spinage and Succory, . . . . 72 

49. Vegetable Soups, . . . .72 

50. Tomates and Herbs, . „ . . .73 
51 ; Preserved Fruits, Marmelades, &c. . . 74 

52. Currant-Jam, . . . . . 76 

53. Syrup of Currants, . . . . 76 

54. Ices, . . . ... 77 

55. Cordials, . . . . . 78 

56. Chesnuts, Truffles, Mushrooms, . . 79 

57. Grape Juice, or. Must, . . . 80 
Preparation of Grape Syrup, . . 81 
Syrups and Ratafies, . . . .82 

58. General Observations, . . . ~ 85 

59. Practical Remarks, . . . 88 
Letter from the Secretary of the Society foj the En- 
couragement of National Industry, . . . 92 

Report of the Society, . . ' ■ . , 94 



ADVERTISEMENT 



IN an advertisement prefixed to the pam- 
phlet, of which the following sheets are a 
translation, the author publishes his address : 
u §>uai Nepoleon, aucoinde larue de la Co- 
" hmbe, No. 4, dans la Cite, a Paris;" and 
offers for sale there, an assortment of provi- 
sions, preserved by the process, of which an 
account is here communicated to the public. 
As the book itself is a recommendation of 
the author's own goods, it has been thought 
proper to add to his account of his process, 
a translation of the authorities and testimo- 
nies by which his own statements are au- 
thenticated ; notwithstanding the repetitions 
which are in consequence admitted. The 
recommendation of the process by the French 
Minist~t- immediately follows. The more 
elaborate report of the Paris Society for the 
encouragement of national industry, will be 
found at the end of the work. 

It is needless to anticipate the author's dis- 
play of the advantages which must flow from 
a simple and unexpensive process of keeping 
fresh articles of animal and vegetable food. 
If this can be effected for only one year^ i. e. 
from the season of produce through the sea- 
sons of scarcity ; if no other articles^ for in s 

a 2 



vi 



stance, than eggs, cream, and vegetable^ 
can be preserved in their full flavour and 
excellence during a long winter, there is 
not a mistress of a family in the nation, rich 
enough to lay by a stock of those articles, 
and not too rich to despise the economy 
of a family, who will not find herself bene- 
fitted by the perusal of the small work here 
put within her reach ; and there is no rea- 
son to suspect the correctness of this part of 
the author's statements. This, however, is 
but one of the more obvious benefits of his 
process ; and if thus much be ascertained, 
then an interminable prospect of resources is 
opened, which the state, still more than the 
individual, will be called upon to employ. 

The author, in his enumeration of the ad- 
vantages to be derived from his process,, 
places at the head, the saving it will occasion 
in the consumption of sugar. This process, 
added to recent improvement in the art of 
preparing grape syrup, holds forth, in his 
opinion, a prospect of relief to the suffering 
proprietors of French vineyards. This state- 
ment must have been listened to with great 
complacency by the French government,, 
which so ostentatiously avows the determi- 
nation to compel the whole continent to sub- 
sist on its own produce, and dispense with 
the more luxurious of transatlantic commo- 
dities. Our country, however, from its soil 
and cjimate, can take little or no share in 



¥11. 



this branch of the application of the author's 
process. 

On the other hand it offers us incalculable 
benefits in the equipment and victualling of 
our fleets, and in providing for the health 
and comfort of the floating defence of the 
country, as well as of that numerous and 
meritorious class of men,' to which the na- 
tion owes so much of its prosperity. What- 
ever promises an improvement in the condi- 
tion of every order of men who subsist on 
the ocean, must be considered as an object of 
national concern. The French government, 
at least on the part of some of its members 
in the subordinate branches of its adminis- 
tration, has taken the lead in recommending 
the author's process to the attention of pub- 
lic functionaries. From the superior activi- 
ty, as well as more enlightened discernment 
of the people of this country, we may expect 
that our author's process will excite equally 
the notice of the government and country at 
large ; and we trust that government-contrac- 
tors and commissioners, as well as the pursers 
of men of war, and the stewards of merchant- 
men, will not be the last to examine for them- 
selves the promising statements of our au- 
thor. 

It was thought less objectionable to insert 
unnecessary matter, than to omit what to 
some readers might be useful or interesting. 
Every thing, therefore, ha.a been translated. 



THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR, COUNT OF THE/ 
EMPIRE, TO M. APFERT, &C. 

Paris, 30th January \ 1810. 
SECOND DIVISION. 

BOARD OF ARTS AND MANUFACTURES. 

MY board of arts and manufactures* has 
reported to me, sir, the examination it has 
made of your process for the preservation of 
fruits, vegetables, meat, soup, milk, &c. and 
from that report no doubt can be entertained 
of the success of such process. As the pre- 
servation of animal and vegetable substances 
may be of the utmost utility in sea voyages, 
in hospitals, and domestic economy, I deem 
your discovery worthy an especial mark of 
the good will of the government. I have in 
consequence acceded to the recommendation 
made me by my council to grant you a re- 
compense of 12,000 francs. f In so doing I 
had in view the assigning you the reward due 
to the inventors of useful processes, and also 
the indemnifying you for the expenses you 
have been obliged to incur, either in the 
forming your establishment, or in the experi- 

* Mon Bureau consultatif des arts et manufactures, 
f About 2222 dollars. 



mcvp. •! :::«i>rry to establish the succe&s of 
y.pift process* You shall be immediately in- 
iW^.i^,!^'i^'ti you may repair to the public 
fr?asury andi^ceive the 12,000 francs. 

It appears to me of importance, sir, that 
you should spread the knowledge of your 
preserving process. I desire, therefore, that 
agreeably to your own proposal, you will di- 
gest a detailed and exact description of your 
process. This description, which you will 
remit to my Board of Arts and Manufac- 
tures, shall be printed at your expense, after 
it shall have been examined. You will then 
transmit me 200 copies. The transmission 
of these copies being the only condition I im- 
pose on you for the payment of the 12,000 
francs, I doubt not you will hasten to fulfil it. 
I desire, sir, you will acknowledge the re- 
ceipt of my letter. 

Accept assurances, &cc. 
(signed) Montalivet. 



BOARD OF ARTS AND MANUFACTURES. 

The undersigned members of the Board of 
Arts and Manufactures, attached to the mi- 
nister of the interior, being required by his 
excellency to examine the description of the 
process of Mr. Appert for the preservation 
of alimentary substance, certify that the de- 
tails it contains, as well on the mode of car- 
rying on the process as on the results, are ex- 



actly conformable to the various experiments 
which Mr. Appert has made before them, by 
order of his excellency. 

(signed) Bordel, 

Gay-Lussac, 
Scipiqn-Perrier, 

MoLARD. 

Paris, 19th April, 1810. 

Copy of a letter written to General Caffarelli, 
maritime prefect at Brest, by the council of 
health, dated Bmmaire, year 12. 
The provisions prepared according to the 
process of citizen Appert, and sent to this 
port by the minister of marine, have, after 
lying in the roads three months, been found 
In the following condition. 

The broth or soup (bouillon) in bottles was 
good ; the bouillon with a bouilli in a vessel 
apart was also good, but weak ; the bouilli 
itself was very eatable. 

The beans and green peas, prepared both 
with meat and vegetable soup, had all the 
freshness and flavour of recently gathered 
vegetables. 

(signed) Dubreuil, 

Billard, 

DURET, 

Pic hon, 
Thaumer. 

True Copy. 

J. Mirjel, Secretary*. 



THE 



ART OP PRESERVING, 



&c. &c. &c» 



SECT. L 

ALL the expedients hitherto made use of 
for preserving alimentary and medicinal sob- 
stances, may be reduced to two principal 
methods ; that of dessication ; and that of ming- 
ling, in greater or less quantities, a foreign 
substance for the purpose of impeding fermen- 
tation or putrefaction. 

It is by the former of these methods that we 
are furnished with smoked and hung meat, dried 
fish, fruits, and vegetables. By the latter, we 
obtain fruits and other vegetable substances pre- 
served in sugar, the juices and decoctions of 
plants reduced to syrups and essences, all kinds 
of pickles, salted meat and vegetables. But 
each of these modes has its peculiar inconve- 
niences. Dessication takes away the odour, 
changes the taste of the juices, and hardens the 
fibrous or pulpy matter (the parenchy?na.) 

B 



Sugar, from the strength of its own flavour., 
conceals and destroys in part other flavours ; 
even that the enjoyment of which, we wish to 
preserve ; such as the pleasant acidity of many 
fruits. A second inconvenience is this, that a 
large quantity of sugar is required in order to 
preserve a small quantity of some other vegeta- 
ble matter ; and hence the use of it is notonly 
very costly, but even in many cases pernicious. 
Thus the juices of certain plants cannot be re- 
duced to a syrup or essence, but by means of 
nearly double the quantity of sugar. It results 
from this, that those syrups or essences contain 
much more sugar than any medicinal substance, 
and that most frequently the sugar counteracts 
the operation of the medicine, and is hurtful to 
the patient. 

Salt communicates an unpleasant acerbity to. 
substances, hardens the animal fibre, and ren- 
ders it difficult of digestion. It contracts the 
animal parenchyma.* On the other hand, as it 
is indispensable to remove, by means of water, 
the greater part of the salt employed;, almost 

* " The salt meat with which the crews of vessels are fed; 
appear^ to be one of the principal causes of the scurvy, it 
seems that the same causes which operate to prevent the fer- 
mentation of meat, renders it ahso difficult of digestion. 
I hough a small quantity of salt may be an obstacle in the 
way of putrefaction, the too abundant and frequent use which 
is made of it, must cause great obstructions in the smaller ves- 
sels of the body, and these obstructions cannot fail to over- 
load the stomach of men who have to digest dry vegetables 
and biscuits, which sailors advanced in years are notalways 
able to chew completely. Bad digestion and obstruction in 
the smaller vessels may occasionally dve rise to ulcers in the 
mouth, and spots, which denote the scurvy."— SaiUe des Ma- 
rms, by Duhamel. 



15 



all the principles which are soluble in cold wa- 
ter, are lost when the salt is taken away : there 
remains nothing but the fibrous matter, or pa- 
renchyma ; and even that, as has been said, un* 
dergoes a change. 

Vinegar can seldom be made use of, but in 
the preparation of certain articles for season- 

\ shall not enter into any details concerning 
what has been said and published on the art of 
preserving alimentary substances. I shall only 
observe, that, as far as my knowledge extends, 
no author, either ancient or modern, has ever 
pointed out or even led to the suspicion of the 
principle which is the basis of the method I 
propose. 

It is known how much, within a certain pe- 
riod, the public attention, both at Paris and in 
the departments, has been directed towards the 
means of diminishing the consumption of sugar, 
by supplying its place by the use of various ex- 
tracts, or essences of indigenous substances. 
The government, whose fihilanthrofiic views 
are turned towards all useful objects, does not 
cease to invite all those who pursue the arts and 
sciences, to investigate the means of drawing 
the utmost advantage from the productions of 
our soil, in order to develop, to the utmost, 
our agriculture and manufactures, and so di- 
minish the consumption of foreign commodi- 
ties. 

In order to attain the same end, the Society 
for the Promotion of National Industry* stimu- 

* La Societe d' Encouragement pour V Industrie naiionale. 



16 



tcs, by the offer of flattering rewards, all those 
hose talents and labours are directed toward 
scoveries, from which the nation and humani- 

may draw substantial benefits. Animated by 
.is laudable zeal, the Agricultural Society, by 
> resolution of the 21st of June, 1809, and its 
hxial notification of it, the 15th of the July 
llowing, made an appeal to the whole nation, 

order to collect all the information and docu- 
ents which might contribute to the composi- 
m of a work on the art of preserving, by the 
ist possible means, every kind of alimentary 
ibstance. 

It was after invitations of so great weight, 
hat I resolved to make known a method of ex- 
acting* this object, of great facility in the execu- 
ion, and at the same time very cheap, and 
vhich, by the extension it admits of, may afford 
mmerous advantages to society. 

This method is not a vain theory. It is the 
rruit of reflection, investigation, long attention, 
md numerous experiments, the results of 
which, for more than ten years, have been so 
surprising, that notwithstanding the proof ac- 
quired by repeated practice, that provisions may 
be preserved two, three, and six years, there 
are many persons who still refuse to credit the 
fact. 

Brought up to the business of preserving 
alimentary substance by the received methods ; 
having spent my days in the pantries, the brew- 
eries, store-houses, and cellars of Champagne, 
as well as in the shops, manufactories, and 
warehouses of confectioners, distillers, and 



17 



grocers ; accustomed to superintend establish- 
ments of this Jand for forty-five years, I have 
been able to avail myself, in my process, of a 
number of advantages, which the greater num- 
ber of those persons have not possessed, who 
have devoted themselves to the art of preserv- 
ing provisions. 

I owe to my extensive practice, and more 
especially to my long perseverance, the convic- 
tion : 

1st. That fire has the peculiar property, not 
only of changing the combination of the con- 
stituent parts of vegetable and animal produc- 
tions, but also of retarding, for many years at 
least, if not of destroying, the natural tendency 
of those same productions to decomposition. 

2d. That the application of fire in a manner 
variously adapted to various substances, after 
having with the utmost care and as completely 
as possible, deprived them of all contact with 
the air, effects a perfect preservation of those 
same productions, with all their natural quali- 
ties. 

Before I state the details of my process I 
ought to observe that it consists principally : 

1st. In enclosing in bottles the substances to 
be preserved. 

2d. In corking the bottles with the utmost 
care ; for it is chiefly on the corking that the 
success of the process depends. 

3d. In submitting these enclosed substances 
to the action of boiling water in a water-bath 
(balneum mariae,) for a greater or less 
length of time,* according to their nature, and 

b 2 



18 



in the manner pointed out with respect to each 
several kind of substance. 

4th. In withdrawing the bottles from the wa- 
ter-bath at the period described. 



SECT. II. 

Description of my Rooms set apart for carrying 
on the Process on a large Scale.* 

My laboratory consists of four apartments. 
The first of these is furnished with all kinds of 
kitchen utensils, stoves, and other apparatus, 
necessary for dressing the animal substances to 
be preserved, as well as with a kettle for broth, 
gravy, Sec. containing 180 French pints, raised 
on brick work. This kettle is provided with a 
pot to be put within it, pierced with holes like 
a skimmer, with divisions for holding various 
kinds of meat and poultry. This pot can be put 
into and taken out of the kettle with ease. The 
kettle is provided with a wide cock, to which 
is fitted, within, a little rose, like that of a water- 
ing-pot, covered with a piece of boulting-cloth. 
In this way I can procure broth or gravy quite 
clear, and ready to be put into bottles. 

* It is obvious, that for the use of private families, and for 
carrying on the process on a small scale, nothing further 
will be requisite, than such vessels and other conveniences 
as are found in every house in the country, where provi- 
sions are cured for the consumption of the family during 
winter. 



19 



The second apartment is appropriated to the 
preparing of milk, cream, and whey. 

The third is used for corking and tying the 
bottles and vessels and putting them into bags. 

The fourth is furnished with three large cop- 
per-boilers, placed upon stones raised on brick 
work. These boilers are all furnished with a 
stout lid, fitted to rest upon the vessels within. 
Each boiler is furnished with a wide cock below, 
in order to let out the water at a proper time. 
These- large boilers are destined to receive, 
generally/ all the objects intended to be pre- 
served, in order to apply the action of heat to 
them in a suitable manner ; and thus they con- 
stitute so many water-baths.* 

* The reason why it is necessary that la rge boilers should be 
furnished with wide cocks is, that it would take up too much 
time to let so large a body of water, always placed over a 
heated stove, remain till it became cool ; and that, on the 
other hand, it would do great injury to those, substancesto 
let them remain too Ions; exposed to the heat. Without in- 
convenience, therefore, in private families, any caldron or 
earthen vessel may be taken for a water-bath, provided the 
water rises to the rim of the bottle. In case there should 
be no vessel sufficiently high, the bottles may be laid down 
in the water-bath, care being taken to pack them well to- 
gether, lest they should be broken. Many operations have 
succeeded well with me this way. The corks are somewhat 
more liable to burst outwards ; but if the bottles are well 
corked, there is nothing to be feared. For instance, it would 
not be advisable to lay on their sides, bottles* or other ves- 
sels stopped up with stoppers consisting of different pieces of 
any substance, because the action of the lire upon this kind of 
stopper is stronger ; and however well the vessel might be 
corked, it would not be advisable to incur the risk. 

Small water-baths are the more convenient, because they 
may be placed any where, and removed at will. They soon 
become cold. The bottles are taken out when the water is 
sufficiently cool to allow of the finger being put in, and thus 
the operation is terminated. 



20 



The utensils which furnish the third apart= 
ment for the preparatory process consist of 

1. Rows of bottle-racks round the room. 

% A reel for the iron wire to be used for 
binding the necks of the bottles and other ves- 
sels. 

3. Shears and pincers for tying on the corks. 

4. Machine for twisting the iron wire after it 
has been divided and cut to a proper length. 

5. Two instruments forming a lever, and 
used for compressing, and, as it were, biting 
the corks. 

6. A bottle-boot or block, standing on three 
legs, and provided with a strong bat for cork- 
ing. 

7. A stool standing on five legs, for tying on 
the corks. 

8. A sufficient quantity of linen bags, for co- 
vering the bottles and other vessels. 

9. Two stools covered with leather and stuff- 
ed with hay, in order to shake the bottles upon 
them, and in that way force a greater number 
of peas and other small substances into the bot- 
tles. 

10. A press for the juice of plants, fruits, 
and herbs ; with pans, vessels, sieves, and eve- 
ry thing else that belongs to it. 

Besides my laboratory, consisting of these 
articles, I have fitted up three apartments. 

The first, for preparing vegetables : it is 
furnished with dressers all round. 

The second, for storing up and preparing all 
kinds of fruit. 



The third is a cellar, furnished with bottle 
racks, for rinsing and setting by the bottles 
and other vessels, as in a store-house. 

I have the precaution to keep the bottles and 
other vessels I may want, ready rinsed at hand, 
I am also supplied with an assortment of corks, 
compressed and bit in the instrument already 
described. When every preparation is thus 
made, the process is half done. 

The principle by which all alimentary substan- 
ces are preserved and kept fresh, is invariable 
in its effects. The result in particular experi- 
ments, depends upon the fitness of each indi- 
vidual application of the principle to the sub- 
stance which is to be preserved, according to 
its peculiar qualities ; but in every case the ex- 
clusion of air is a precaution of the utmost im- 
portance to the success of the operation : and 
in order to deprive alimentary substances of 
contact with the air, a perfect knowledge of 
bottles and the vessels to be used, of corks and 
corking, is requisite. 



SECT. in. 

Of Bottles and Vessels. 

I chose glass, as being the matter most im- 
penetrable by air, and have not ventured to 
make any experiment with a vessel made of 
any other substance. The ordinary bottles 
have generally necks too small and ill made ; 



22 



they are also too weak to resist the blows from 
the bat and the action of the fire : I, therefore, 
caused bottles to be made for my especial use, 
with wider necks, and those necks made with a 
projecting rim, or ring, on the interior surface, 
placed below, and resembling, in form, the rim 
which is at the top of the exterior surface of the 
necks of bottles. My object was, that when 
the cork had been forced into the neck of the 
bottle, three-fourths of its length, in the man- 
ner already described, it should be compressed 
in the middle. In this manner the bottle is per- 
fectly corked on the outside as well as within. 
It thus opposes an obstacle to the swelling, or 
expansion, which arises from the operation of 
heat upon the substance enclosed within the bot- 
tle. This mode of forming the neck of the 
bottle is so much the more indispensable, as I 
Imve repeatedly known the swelling to be so 
strong, as to push out corks of three or four 
lines in length, though confined by two iron 
wires crossed. The bottles and vessels should 
be made of a tough substance [de matitre liante^] 
the former having the weight of twenty- five or 
twenty-six ounces for each litre* that the bottle 
contains. The glass ought to be of equal thick- 
ness in every part, or it is liable to break in the 
water-bath. The form of the Champage bottle 
is most convenient ; it is the handsomest as 
well as the strongest, and is of the best shape 
for packing up. 

* The French litre, consists of nearly two wine pints and a 
Mlf, English measure. 



23 



SECT. IV. 
Of Corks. 

Economy in corks is generally very unwi'se> 
as in order to save a very trifle in the price of 
cork, a risk is incurred of losing the valuable 
commodity it is intended to preserve. As cork- 
ing is made use of in order to preserve and me- 
liorate certain articles, by depriving them of all 
contact with the air, too much attention cannot 
be given to the good quality of the cork? which 
should be of eighteen or twenty lines in length, 
and of the finest quality. Experience has so 
fully satisfied me on this point, that I never 
make use of any but superfine corks : these are, 
in the end, the cheapest. I further take the pre- 
caution of compressing, and, as it were, biting 
the cork, three-fourths of its length, by means 
of. the instrument already described, beginning 
at the small end. The cork is rendered more 
supple ; the pores of the cork are brought 
closer ; it is somewhat lengthened, and its thick- 
ness is so much diminished at the extremity 
which is put into the mouth of the bottle, that 
a large cork may be made to enter a very mo- 
derate opening. The action of the heat within 
the vessel is such, that the cork swells within* 
and the corking is thus rendered perfect. 



24 



SECT. V* 
Of Corking. 

After what has been just said, the absolute 
necessity will be apparent of having good bot- 
tles, with a projecting rim of equal thickness all 
round within the neck. Excellent superfine 
corks are also indispensable, which have been 
compressed in the instrument three quarters of 
their length. 

Before I cork, I take care that the bottles 
containing liquor are filled only up to within 
three inches of the outer rim, lest they should 
burst from the bubbling and swelling occasion- 
ed by the application of heat to the water. 
When the bottles contain vegetables, fruit, &c. 
they may be filled up to within two inches of 
the rim. 

I place the full bottle upon the bottle-boot 
already mentioned, before which I seat myself. 
This apparatus is to be supplied with a strong 
wooden bat, a small pot full of water, and a. 
sharp knife, greased with a little suet or soap, 
for cutting off the tops of the corks, which 
ought never to be raised much above the head 
of the bottles. These arrangements being 
made, I place the bottle-boot between my legs, 
and taking a cork of fit size, I dip one half 
of it into the little pot of water, in order to faci- 
litate its entrance ; and having wiped the end, I 
then put it to the mouth of the bottle, at the 
same time turning it round. I hold it in this 



2a 



position with my left hand, which I keep steady, 
that the bottle may stand upright. I take the 
bat in my right hand, in order to drive in the 
cork by force of blows. 

When I find, at the first or second blow of 
the bat, that the cork has somewhat entered, 
I take my hand from the cork in order to hold 
with it the neck of the bottle, which I fix firmly 
and upright upon the bottle-boot ; and by dint 
of repeated blows, I continue to drive in my 
cork three-fourths of its length. The quarter 
<of the cork which remains above the bottle, 
after having refused to yield any further to the 
redoubled blows of the "bat, assures me, in the 
ftrst place that the bottle is completely corked) 
and this same residue serves also to hold the 
•double crossed iron wire which is necessary to 
Kind fast the cork, that it may be able to resist 
the action of heat on the water bath. I must 
repeat again, that too much attention cannot bu 
l^iven to the corking: no circumstance however 
minute ought to be neglected, in order to effect 
the rigorous exclusion of the air from the sub- 
stance to be preserved ; air being a most. de- 
structive agent, and the one which is most sedu- 
louslv to be counteracted in the course of the 
process.,'* 

* Many persons believe they have corked well, when they 
Lave forced the cork even with the mouth of the bottle ; but 
this is a great mistake. On the contrary, whenever the 
whole of the cork instead of withstanding the blows of the 
"bat, is forced into the bottle, it is advisable to draw it out 
and substitute another in its place. Thus the believing that 
a bottle corked very low is well corked, because no liquor 
•escapes when the bottle is turned with its neck downwards, is 
un error, which, joined to the use of bad corks, causes a num.- 

c 



26 



The bottles being well stopped up, I then, 
fasten the cork down with a couple of iron 
wires crossed : this is an easy operation and 
any one can do it, who has once seen it done. 

I then put each bottle in a bag of canvass or 
coarse linen cloth, made for the purpose, suffi- 
ciently large to wrap up the whole of the bottle, 
up to the very cork. These bags are made in 
the shape of a muif, open alike at both ends : 
one of these ends is drawn with a string run- 
ning in a gutter leaving an opening of about 
the width of a crown piece ; the other end is 
provided with a couple of small strings, in or- 
der to tie the bag round the neck of the bottle. 

By means of these bags, I can dispense with 
the use of hay or straw in packing up the bot- 
tles in the water-bath ; and, whenever any one 
of them breaks, the fragments are preserved in 

her of losses. He who corks with care and judgment is satis- 
fied that the operation has been performed well by the re- 
sistance of the cork to the blows of the bat, and never think* 
of turning the neck of the bottle downwards. It is besides 
'^. ffi "ent to reflect on the punctures met with in cork, and on 
all the hidden defects which may subsist in the interior even 
of the finest cork, by means of which, the air may be intro- 
duced; m order to be convinced of the propriety of makinr 
use of none but the very best corks, and that, after having 
well compressed them in the machine for that purpose ; and 
also of corking them so closely that they become very much 
compressed in the middle.. 

It is in this way only, that losses can be prevented from 
frequently taking place, which have often no other cause than 
had corking ; for, if a bottle does not instantly run when care- 
lessly corked, it prooeeds from this circumstance, that the air 
has not had time to penetrate through the apertures which 
may be in the interior of the cork ; and in fact, how different 
is the quality of wine, drawn from the same cask' and how 
many bottles do we meet with, which have lost more ov iesi of 
their contents! 



27 



the bag. I am spared a great deal of trouble 
and a number of inconveniences which I had 
formerly to sustain, in picking up the pieces of 
the bottle out of the straw or hay I then made 
use of. 

After having spoken of bottles, their form 
and quality ; of stoppers, and the length of the 
fine cork of which they ought to be composed ; 
of the corking and tying ; of bags, their form 
and utility ; I proceed to give an idea of vessels 
with large necks, that is, glass jars, which I 
make use of for preserving solid and bulky 
substances, such as poultry, game, meat, 4ish, 
&c. 

These jars have necks of two, three, or four 
inches diameter, and are of a larger or smaller 
size ; like bottles, they are furnished with a pro- 
jecting rim, not only in order to strengthen the 
neck, but also for receiving the iron wire desti- 
ned to bind the corks. I have not yet been able 
to procure from the glass-houses a similar pro- 
jecting rim in the interior of the neck of these 
jars, as I have in that of the bottles. The com- 
pletely corking up these vessels, is, from this 
circumstance, rendered more difficult, and de- 
mands especial care. 

I met with another obstacle in the cork itself, 
from its thinness (more especially when the 
cork was very fine) and also from its ascend- 
ing pores being against the grain. I was there- 
fore obliged to form stoppers of three or four 
pieces of cork, from twenty to twenty-four 
lines in length, placed together the way of the 
grain, the pores of the cork being placed hori- 



zontally, by means of isinglass prepared in the 
following manner. 

I melted over the fire, four drachms of well 
beaten isinglass, in e^ight ounces of water : 
when melted, I caused it to run through fine 
linen ; and then put it again over the lire in 
order to reduce it to one third of its volume. 
After which I added an ounce of e-ood full- 
proof brandy. I then left the whole on the fire 
till it became reduced to about three ounces. 
I then put the glue thus prepared in a little pot 
over live coals, and took care to warm my 
pieces of cork. I then slightly smeared over the 
pieces of cork with a brush, in order to glue 
them together. When the pieces composing 
the stopper were well fixed and glued together, 
I then fixed a tight thread to the two extremi- 
ties of the stopper, in order to keep the pieces 
together, and let them dry, either in the sun or 
in a gentle heat for about a fortnight. At the 
end of this time I took a cork-maker's knife and 
cut my stoppers of a proper shape ; and having 
always fitted them to the mouth of the jar, they 
have never proved defective. 

Having corked my jars, and driven in the 
stopper by means of the bat, the bottles being 
always placed upright in the bottle boot, I made 
use of a compound luting. This luting (com- 
municated to me by Mr. Bardel) is made of 
quick lime, which is slaked in the air by being 
sprinkled with water, till it becomes reduced to 
a powder. The powder to be kept in this state 
in corked bottles ready for use. This lime 
mixed with a cheese made of skimmed milk 



29 



(frontage u la file ) and formed to the thickness 
of paste, produces a luting which hardens ra- 
pidly, and which withstands the heat of boiling 
water. 

I besmear the whole of the outside of the 
stopper with this luting, and I cover the edge 
of the jar with hemp and strips of linen placed 
above and close to the stopper, and hanging 
down to the rim. 

Farther, that the iron wire may have force 
enough to keep down the stopper, I put a piece 
of cork seven or eight lines high, and sixteen 
or eighteen lines in diameter, in the middle of 
the large stopper which is itself too big to allow 
the wire to have any effect upon it. By means 
of this second cork, placed in the middle of the 
large stopper, I am able to make the wire take 
a proper hold of the cork, and give due strength 
and solidity to the stopper. 

When every thing has thus been foreseen, 
and prepared, and, above all things, well cork- 
ed, tied, and wrapped up in bags, there remains 
nothing to be clone, but to apply the preserving 
principle, that is, heat, to the substances duly 
arranged, and this is the most easy part of the 
operation. 

I place all the vessels, bottles or jars, up- 
right in a boiler, which I then fill with cold wa- 
ter up to the necks of the vessels ; I then cover 
the boiler with its lid, which is made to rest 
upon the vessels. I cover the upper part of 
the lid with a piece of wet linen, in order that 
the sides of the lid may exactly fit, and all eva- 

c 2 



30 



poration from the water-bath be impeded as 
much as possible. 

When the boiler has been thus filled and ad- 
justed, X light the fire beneath. When the wa- 
ter-bath begins to boil, I take care to maintain 
the same degree of heat for the greater or less 
quantity of time required by the substances ex- 
posed to its influence. When this time has 
elapsed, I then instantly put out the fire by 
means of a coal extinguisher ( etouffoir ). 

After the fire has been put out a quarter of 
an hour, I let out the water of the bath by 
means of the cock ; after the water has been 
withdrawn half an hour, I uncover the boiler, 
and I do not take out the bottles till one or two 
hours after the uncovering ; and this terminates 
the operation. 

The next day, or a fortnight afterwards, for 
that is immaterial, I place my bottles on shelves 
as I do wine, in a cool and shady place. If I 
purpose sending them a great distance, I think 
it worth while to pitch them before I place 
them on the shelves ; otherwise this last opera- 
tion is not absolutely necessary. I have now 
by me, bottles which have been three years 
lying under a stair-case, the substances con- 
tained in which retain as much flavour as if 
they were just prepared, and yet they were ne- 
ver pitched. 

We have just seen, from all that has been 
said, that alimentary substances, in order to be 
preserved, should be, without exception, sub- 
jected to the application of heat in a water- 
bath ; after being rigorously excluded from all 



31 



contact with the air, in the manner, and with 
the precautions already indicated. 

The preserving principle is, as I have al- 
ready observed, invariable in its effects. Thus 
every loss I have sustained from any of the ar- 
ticles being spoiled, had no other cause than an 
erroneous application of the principle, or some 
negligence or omission in the preparatory pro- 
cess already pointed out. It sometimes hap- 
pens to me even now, that my operations do 
not perfectly succeed ; but no man makes ex- 
periments in any of the arts, or in any branch of 
natural philosophy, without being liable to dis- 
appointment. Nor can any one, therefore, who 
is employed in such a process as mine, flatter 
himself that he may not sometimes find his com- 
modities spoiled from some defect in a vessel, 
or in the interior of a cork. But in fact, when 
due attention is given, these losses seldom take 
place. 



SECT. VI. 

The means of distinguishing among the Bottles or 
Jars, as they are taken from the Boiler, such of 
them as, from some neglect in the preparatory 
process, some accident, or the action of the fire y 
are in danger of occasioning a loss, or spoiling 
the substances enclosed in them* 

When the operation is completed, of what- 
ever kind it may be, I take the greatest care in 



32 



my power to examine all the bottles and jars 
one by one, as I take them from the boiler. 

I have remarked in some, defects in the glass, 
as stars and cracks occasioned by the action of 
the heat in the water-bath; or by the tying, 
when the mouth of the vessel has been too 
weak. 

I have observed in others, a moisture round 
the stopper, or little spots near the mouth, from 
which I inferred that part of the substance en- 
closed had oozed out during the dilation or ex- 
pansion produced by the heat of the water-bath : 
these are the two principal observations that 
usually occur to me : and whenever I observe 
either of these appearances on any bottle, I al- 
ways set it aside, and make use of the substance 
immediately, that nothing may be lost. 

The first of the flaws pointed out, arises from 
the quality, and originally bad structure of the 
bottle ; but the second may arise from any one 
of four causes :— 1. From a bad cork ; 2. from 
bad corking ; 3. from the bottle having been 
filled too near the brim ; and 4. from bad tying . 
A single one of these faults is sufficient to spoil 
a bottle ; more easily, therefore, a complication 
of them. 

In the applying of heat to the water-bath, I 
have had various obstacles to encounter, more 
particularly when peas were to be preserved ; 
for peas are of all substances the most difficult 
to preserve completely. This veg .table, when 
gathered while it is too young or too tender, 
dissolves in water, and in consequence the bot- 
tle is found half empty, and even this half is not 



33 



fit to be kept ; hence, whenever this circum- 
stance occurs, I set aside the bottle and make 
use of the article immediately. If the peas 
have been gathered two or three days, the heat 
occasions them to lose all their flavour ; they 
become hard ; they ferment before the opera- 
tion ; the bottles break in the water-bath with 
an explosion ; those which resist the first heat 
break afterwards, or are faulty : and this is easi- 
ly recognised by the liquor in the bottle, which 
becomes turbid ; while peas which are well 
preserved, leave the liquid pellucid. 

It is not necessary to recommend despatch, 
and the utmost cleanliness in the preparation of 
alimentary substances. This is absolutely in- 
dispensable : more especially in what respects 
the substances themselves which are to be pre- 
served. 

I take care to have all my preparatory ar- 
rangements made before I begin the process ; 
that there may be no waiting, and that the best 
use may be made of the time employed in carry- 
ing it on. 



34 



BESCRIPTION OF MF PROCESS, AS APPLIED TC* 
THE VARIOUS ARTICLES INTENDED 
TO BE PRESERVED. 

SECT. VII. 

Boiled Mcatl 

\(Pot-au~fcu de Menage.) 

I put a quantity of meat into the pot to ibe 
boiled in the ordinary way. When it was 
three-fourths boiled, I took out one half of it, 
the bones of which I had already taken off, as I 
purposed to preserve it. When the meat was 
completely boiled, I strained the broth, and 
after it had become cool, I put it in bottles 
which I corked well, tied and wrapped up in 
their several bags. The beef which I had ta- 
ken out when three-fourths done, I put into 
jars which I filled up with a part of the same 
broth. Having corked, luted, and tied up 
these, and wrapped them in bags, I placed 
them, and the bottles containing the broth, up- 
right in a caldron or boiler. I filled this hoik;r 
with cold water up to the rim of the bottles 
and jars. I put the lid upon the boiler, causing 
it to rest on the vessels within, and took care 
to surround it with a wet linen cloth, in ordor 
to impede as much as possible, any evapora- 
tion from the water-bath. I heated the boiler, 
and when the water-bath had been made to boil, 1 
kept up the same degree of heat for an hour, and 



35 



precisely at the end of the hour, let the fire pass 
into an extinguisher. Half an hour afterwards 
I let off the water from the bath, by means of 
the cock at the bottom of the boiler. At the 
end of another half hour I took off the lid. 
An hour or two afterwards, I took out the bot- 
tles and jars. (The time of doing this is, how- 
ever, immaterial, and the operator will consult 
his own convenience.) The next day I besmear- 
ed the corks with rosin, in order to forward the 
bottles and jars to different sea-ports. 

At the end of a year, and a year and a half, the 
broth and boiled meat were found as good as if 
made the day they were eaten. 



SECT. VIII. 
Gravy. 

In the year 12, having reason to hope that I 
$hould be employed to provide some nourishing 
provisions for the sick on board his majesty's 
vessels, in consequence of some experiments 
whichhad already been made in the sea-ports, by 
order of his Excellency the Minister of the Ma- 
tine and Colonies, on alimentary productions 
preserved according to my method; I made 
the necessary arrangement for fulfulling the or- 
ders I had reason to expect. In consequence, 
that I might not want too many bottles and jars, 
and that I might be able to condense the sub- 
stance of eight messes in a bottle of the size of 



36 



one litre ^ I made the following experiment. A% 
in general, evaporation cannot take place, but 
at the expense of the object to be condensed,* 
I made some gravy, in the proportion of two 
pounds of good meat and poultry to one litre. 
My gravy being made, and strainechand. suffer- 
ed to become cool, I put it in bottles. After 
having well corked, and tied the bottles and 
wrapped them in bags, I placed them in the 
boiler. I had taken out, when one quarter 
dressed, the best pieces of the beef and poultry,. 
When these were grown cold, I put them in 
jars, and filled the jars with the same gravy * 
Having well corked, luted, tied, and wrapped 
up these jars, I set them upright in the same 
boiler with the bottles of gravy. Having filled 
the boiler with cold water up to the rim of the 
bottles and jars, and having covered the lid of 
the boiler with a wet linen cloth, I heated the 
water-bath. When it was made to- boil I kept 
up the same degree of heat for two hours, and 
completed this operation as I did the prece- 
ding. 

The beef and fowls were found well dressed, 
and were kept, as well as the gravy, for more 
than two years. 

* Jellies, essences of meat, the substance of ice and portable 
soups, which are prepared from the soft and white parts of 
animals, preserved at a great expense by means of evapora- 
tion, and drying in stoves with the aid of hartshorn and isin- 
glass, furnish merely factitious aliments, without flavour, or 
any other than a burnt or mouldy taste, 



37 



SECT. IX. 

feroth, or Jelly. 

I composed this jelly, according to the pre- 
scription of a physician, of calves feet and 
lights, red cabbage, carrots, turnips, onions, 
and leeks, taking a sufficient quantity of each. 
A quarter of an hour before I took this jelly 
from the fire, I added some sugar-candy with 
some Senegal gum. I strained it as soon as it 
was made. After it was cold it was put in bot- 
tles, which were corked, tied, wrapped up in 
bags, and put in the water-bath, which was 
kept boiling one quarter of an hour, and this 
jelly was preserved and remained as good as it 
was the day on which it was made. 



SECT. X, 

Round of Beef, Fillet' of Mutton, Fowls and Yoimg 

Partridges. 

I prepared all these articles as if for common 
use, but only three-fourths dressed, the young 
partridges being roasted. When they were 
grown cold, I put these articles separately into 
jars of a sufficient size. Having well corked, 
luted, tied and wrapped them up, I put them all 
into the water-bath which was kept on the boil 
for half an hour. They were forwarded to 

D 



38 



Brest, and from thence were sent to Sea for 
four months and ten days, together with some 
vegetables, gravy, and preserved milk, all well 
packed up in a chest. 

When opened, eighteen different kinds of 
preserved food were tasted, every one of which 
had retained its freshness ; and not a single 
substance had undergone the least change at 
Sea. 

To the experiments made with these four 
kinds of provisions, I can add two others made 
by myself; the one, a fricasee of fowls ; and the 
other a matelot of eels, carp, and pike, with an 
addition of sweet-bread, mushrooms^ onions, 
butter, and anchovies, all dressed in white wine. 
The fricasee and the matelot were perfectly 
preserved. 

These results prove sufficiently that the same 
principle, applied with the same preparatory 
process, and with the same care and precau- 
tions, in general preserves all animal produc- 
tions. But it is to be observed that in the pre- 
vious cooking of each article, it is to be only 
three-fourths dressed at the utmost, in order 
that the remainder of the requisite cooking may- 
be communicated by means of the water-bath. 

There are a number of articles which can 
bear an additional hour of boiling in the water- 
bath without any danger, as broth, gravy, jellies 
and the essences of meat, poultry and ham, the 
juice of the grape and of plants, 8cc. But there 
are also others which will sustain a great injury 
from a quarter of an hour's or even a minute's 
too much boiling;. Thus the result will always 



39 



depend upon the dexterity, intelligence, and 
judgment of the operator.* 



SECT. XL 



New-laid Eggs. 

The. more fresh the egg is, the longer it with- 
stands the heat of the water-bath. I conse- 
quently took eggs the day they had been laid, 
placed them in a jar, with raspings of bread, to 
fill up the vacuities, and secure them against 
breaking when removed to a distance. Having 
well corked, tied, and luted the jars. &c. I 

* The celebrated Chaptal says, in his Elemens de Chimie, 
scours prehminaire, p. cxxxi. " We hear in manufactories 
of nothingbut the caprice of experiment, but this vague phrase 
has its origin only in the ignorance in which the workmen 
are of the true principles of their art ; for nature does not act 
according to any principle of discernment, but obeys constant 
laws. The dead matter which we employ in our manufac- 
tories, exhibits necessary effects, in which the will can have 
no share, and consequently can have no caprice. Make 
yo«rself acquainted, we should say to the manual operator, 
with the substance on whicli you are to operate, study bet- 
ter the principles of your art, and you will be able to foresee, 
predict, and calculate every thing. It is your ignorance alone 
which renders your operations a constant groping in the 
oark, and a discouraging alternation of success and disap- 
pointment." 

In fact, the operator who proceeds with a perfect knowledge 
of the principles of his art, and of the results of its applica- 
tion, will never ascribe the failure of his process to caprice, 
but will impute it to the neglect of some indispensable precau- 
tion m the application of his principle: and his disappoint- 
ment will serve as a guide for him to calculate better and im- 
prove his preparatory process. Convinced that the effects 
that flow from his principle are invariable, he knows that 



40 



placed tlrvi.1 in a boiler of a proper size* to give 
ihem seventy-five degrees of heat.t Having 
taken the water-bath from the fire, I took out 
the eggs as soon as the water was so cool that I 
could put my finger in it. I then took out the 
eggs and kept them six months. At the end of 
that period I took the eggs out of the jar, put 
them into cold water which I set on the fire and 
heated it to seventy-five degrees : I found them 
fit to dip a toast of bread into, and as fresh as 
when I prepared them. As to hard eggs, which 
are to be cut into slices and fricaseed, I heatlhe 
water-bath eighty degrees* and as soon as it 
begins to boil, I remove the water-bath from 
the fire. 



SECT. XII. 
Milk. 

I took twelve litres of milk fresh from the 
cow ; I condensed it in the water-bath and re- 
duced it to two-thirds of its quantity, frequently 
skimming it. Then I strained it through a 

every kind of loss and damage can proceed only from au 
error in the application of his principle. 

* This operation performed on a great scale, that is in a 
larger boiler, would require too much exactness, as it .would 
be more difficult to command just the due degree of heat m 
such a boiler than in a small water-bath which may be set on 
and taken off at pleasure, $ 

f That is, of Reamur, or 200 of Farenheit ; in like manner, 
the 80 of Reamur, or boiling point mentioned below, is *.U 
ofFarenheiu T. 



41 



boulting cloth. When cold, I took from it the 
skim which had risen while it was cooling, and 
bottled it, with the usual process, and afterwards 
put it in the water-bath, which I let boil for two 
hours ; and at the end of several months, I per- 
ceived that the cream had separated itself and 
was swimming in the bottle in the form of 
flakes. To obviate this inconvenience, I made 
a second experiment on a like quantity of milk 
which I condensed in the water-bath, reducing 
it to one half, instead of one third, as 1 had done 
the former. I then added to the milk, so redu- 
ced, the yolks of eight new laid eggs well beat- 
en. Having left the whole thus well mingled 
half an hour on the fire, I completed the experi- 
ment as before, This expedient perfectly suc- 
ceeded, 

The yolk of egg had so completely combined 
all the particles, that at the end of a year, and 
even of eighteen months, the milk remained as 
fresh as when I put it in the bottles. The first 
also was preserved more than two years. The 
cream which was in flakes disappeared when 
put on the fire. Both sustained the boiling 
alike. From both, butter and whey were after- 
wards obtained. In the different experiments 
and chymical analyses to which they were ex- 
posed, it was found that the last, being much 
the better, was equal to the best cream sold at 
Paris to drink with cofFee* 



M 2 



42 



SECT. XIII. 
Cream. 

I took five litres of cream, taken with care 
from milk of the preceding evening. I conden- 
sed it in the water-bath to four litres^ without 
skimming it. I took off the skim which was 
formed above, in order to strain it through a 
boulting cloth afterwards, and let it cool. Af- 
ter having taken off the skim which had risen 
while cooling, I put it in half bottles, observing 
the usual process, and let the water-bath boil 
for one hour. 

At the end of two years this cream was found 
as fresh as if prepared the same day. I made 
some good fresh butter with it ; making from 
four to five ounces of butter from half a litre of 
cream. 



SECT. XIV. 
Whey, 

I prepared some whey by the ordinary pro- 
cess. When clarified, and grown cold, I put it 
in bottles, Sec. and let it remain in the water- 
bath, which was boiling, one hour. However 
well the whey may be clarified, when put into 
the water-bath, the application of the heat al- 
ways detaches some particles of cheese which 



43 



are deposited. I preserved some in this way 
two and three years, and before I made use of 
it, I strained it that it might be very clear. On 
an emergency you may content yourself with 
carefully decantering the whey for this pur- 
pose . 



SECT. XV. 

Of Vegetables. 

As the difference of climates renders the pro- 
ductions of different countries more or less early, 
and varies their qualities, kinds, and denomi- 
nations,* attention will be given by the operator 
to the circumstances of the spot in which he re- 
sides. 

At Paris and its environs, June and July are 
the best months for preserving green peas 
( fietits fiois verts ) small Windsor beans ( fit- 
tit es fives de marais ) and asparagus (as- 
Jierge.) At a later period, these vegetables 
suffer greatly from heat and dryness, In Au- 
gust and September I preserve artichokes ( ar- 
tichauts) French beans (haricots verts et 
blancs) and cauliflowers (choux-fleurs.) 

* For this reason the translator adds the original names of 
the vegetables spoken of. It may happen that some of the 
kinds of fruits and roots mentioned by the author, do not ex- 
actly correspond with those which are considered as the same 
in this country. Whatever peculiarities there may be in the 
articles themselves, these will hardly affect the treatment 
they have to undergo in the process of preserving them. T= 



44 



In general, all vegetables intended to be pre- 
served should be used as recently gathered as 
possible, and prepared with the utmost rapidity, 
so that there should be as it were, but one step 
from the garden-bed to the water-bath. 



SECT. XTL 

Green Peas. 

(Petitspois verts.) 

The clamart and the crochu are the two kinds 
of peas which I prefer, especially the latter, 
which is the most juicy and sweet of all, as well 
as the earliest, except the michaux (hastings) 
which is the first pea, but this kind is not fit to 
be preserved. I gather the peas when they are 
not too young and tender, for they are apt to 
dissolve in water during the operation. I take 
them when they are of a middling size. They 
are then in a more perfect state, and have an 
infinitely finer taste and flavour. I shell them 
as soon as they are gathered. I separate the 
large ones, and they are then put in bottles, the 
bottles being for that purpose placed on the 
stool before 'mentioned, in order that as many 
peas as possible may, by shaking the bottle, be 
made to go into them ; I then cork the bottles, 
&c. and put them in the water-bath, which is 
made to boil for an hour and a half, if the season 
be cool and moist ; and two hours in a dry and 



45 



Siot season ; and I terminate the operation 
before. 

I also put in bottles the larger peas which 1 
had separated from those which were more de- 
licate. These, also, I put into the water-bath, 
which I let boil according to the season, two 
hours, or two hours and a half. ; 



SECT. XVII. 

Asparagus, 

(Asperge.) 

I clean the asparagus as if for ordinary use, 
either with the stalk, or the buds only. Before 
I put them in bottles or jars, I plunge them 
into boiling water, and afterwards into cold wa- 
ter, in order to take away the peculiar sharpness 
of this vegetable. The stalks are placed in the 
jars with great care, the heads being down- 
wards : the buds are put in bottles. After both 
are well drained, I cork the bottles, &c. and I 
put them in the water-bath, where they remain 
only till the water thoroughly boils. 



46 



SECT. XVIIL 

Windsor Beans. 

( Petites fives de marais.) 

Neither the fever ole (the small dried bean) 
nor the julienne, which resembles it, are fit to 
be preserved. I make use of the genuine Wind- 
sor, or broad bean, which is of the thickness 
and breadth of the thumb, when ripe. I gather 
it very small, about the size of the end of the 
little finger, in order to preserve it with its 
skin. As the skin becomes brown when in 
contact with the air, I take the precaution of 
putting the beans in bottles as soon as shelled. 
When the bottles are full, the beans having been 
shaken down gently on the stool, and in that 
way the vacancies in the bottle having been fill- 
ed up, I add to each bottle a little bunch of sa- 
vory ; I cork them quickly in order to give 
them one hour's boiling in the water-bath* 
When this vegetable has been quickly gather- 
ed, prepared, and preserved, it has a white, 
greenish colour ; on the contrary, when the 
operation has been tardy, it becomes bro wn and 
hard. 



47 



SECT. XIX. 
Peeled Windsor Beans. 

(Fives de marais derobees.) 

In order to preserve Windsor beans stripped 
of their skins, I gather them larger, about half 
an inch long at the utmost. I take off the skin, 
bottle them with a small bunch of savory, &c. 
and I put them in the water-bath, which is made 
to boil an hour and a half. 



SECT. XX. 
French Beans. 

(Haricots verts et blancs.) 

The bean known by the name of bayolet, 
which resembles the Swiss bean, is the kind 
fittest to be preserved green, with the pod. 
It combines uniformity with the best taste. I 
cause the beans to be gathered as for ordinary 
use. I string tjiem, and put them in bottles, 
taking care to shake them on the stool, to fill 
the vacancies in the bottles. I then cork the 
bottles and put them in the water-bath, which 
is to boil an hour and a half. When the beans 
are rather large, I cut them lengthways into two 
or three pieces : and then they do not require 
being in the water-bath longer than one hour. 



48 



Of the kinds of haricot of which the seeds or 
beans themselves are to be preserved, the Sois- 
sons haricot is justly entitled to the preference. 
For want of that, I take the best of any other 
species of the haricot blanc that I can meet with. 
I gather it when the shell begins to turn yellow. 
I then shell it immediately, and bottle it, See. 
I put it in the water-bath, to give it a two hour's 
boiling. 



SECT. XXI. 

Artichokes. 

(Artichauts.) 

To preserve artichokes whole, I gather them 
of. a middling size ; after having taken off all 
the useless leaves, and pared them, I plunge 
them into boiling water, and immediately after- 
wards into cold water. Having drained them, 
I put them into jars which are corked, &c. and 
they receive an hour's boiling. 

To preserve cut artichokes (en guartiers,) I 
divide them (taking fine specimens) into eight 
pieces, i take out the choke and leave very 
few of the leaves. I plunge themlnto boiling 
water, and afterwards into fresh water. Hav- 
ing been drained, they are then placed over the 
lire in a saucepan, with a piece of fresh butter, 
seasoning, and fine herbs. When half dressed, 
they are taken from the fire and set by to coo'L 



49 



They then are put in jars, which are corked, 
tied, luted, &x. and placed in the water-bath, in 
which they receive half an hour's boiling. 



SECT. XXII. 

Cauliflowers. 

(Choux-jleiirs.) 

I plunge the cauliflower, like the artichoke^ 
in boiling water, and then in cold water, after 
having first plucked it. When well drained, I 
put it in jars, which are corked, &x. I place 
it in the water-bath, in order to give it half an 
hour's boiling, &c. 

As the seasons vary, and are sometimes dry 
and sometimes moist, it is necessary to study 
and adapt the various degrees of heat required 
according to the season, Attention to this cir- 
cumstance must never be disregarded. For 
instance, in a coo2 and damp year, vegetables 
are more tender and consequently more sensi- 
ble to the action of fire. In this case, the water- 
bath should be made to boil seven or eight 
minutes less ; and in dry seasons, when vegeta- 
bles are firmer, and better support the acti6n of 
fire, seven or eight minutes boiling should be 
added, 



50 



SECT. XXIIL 
Sorrel. 

(Oscifte.) 

I gather oseille (sorrel,) bellc-dame* noiree 
(beet,) laitue (lettice,) cerfeuil (chervil,) ciboule 
(green onion,) Sec. in fit proportions. When 
they have all been well plucked, washed, drain- 
ed, and minced, I cause the whole to be stewed 
together in a copper vessel well tinned. These 
vegetables ought to be well stewed, as if for 
daily use, and not dried up and burned as is often 
done in families, when it is intended to preserve 
them. This quantity of stewing is the most fit, 
When my herbs are thus prepared, I set them 
to cool in earthen or stone vessels. Afterwards 
I put them in bottles with a wide mouth. I 
cork them, Sec. and I put my sorrel in the 
water-bath, which is allowed a quarter of an 
hour's boiling merely. This time is sufficient 
for preserving it ten years untouched, and as 
fresh as if it was just taken from the garden. 
-«fhis mode is, without dispute, the best and 
most economical for families and hospitals, civil 
and military. It is, above all* most advanta- 
geous to the navy : for sorrel thus prepared 
may be brought from the Indies, as fresh and 
savoury as if dressed the same day. 

* A species of the Bella-donna very generally made use «f 
a-s an ingredient in French soups. T. 



51 



SECT. XXIY. 
Spiiiage, Succory, and other Herbs, 

(Epinards et chicories.) 

Sorrel and succory are prepared as if for 
daily use. When fresh gathered, plucked, 
scalded, cooled, squeezed and minced, I put 
them in bottles, Sec. to give them a quarter of 
an hour's boiling in the water-bath, Sec. 

Carrots, cabbages, turnips, parsnips, onions, 
potatoes, celery, chardoons, ( cardans d'Es* 
jiagne,J red beet, and, generally, all vegetables, 
may be preserved alike, either simply scalded, 
or prepared with soup, in order to be used 
when taken out of the vessel. In the first case, 
I cause the vegetables to be scalded and half 
boiled in water with a little salt. I then take 
them from the water in order to strain them 
and let them cooi ; and afterwards put them 
into bottles, and into the water-bath. I let the 
carrots, cabbages, turnips, parsnips, and red 
beet, remain in the water-bath while it boils 
one hour: and the onions, potatoes, and celery, 
&x. half an hour. In the other case I prepare 
my vegetables with soup, either with or with- 
out meat, as for ordinary use. When three- 
fourths boiled and well prepared and seasoned, 
I take them from the fire to let them cooL 
Then I put them in bottles, &c. and give them 
a good quarter of an hour's boiling in the wa- 
ter-bath. 



SECT. XXV. 



A Soup called Julienne. 

I compose a Julienne of carrots, leeks, 
turnips, sorrel, French beans, celery, green 
peas, &c. These I prepare in the ordinary 
way, which consists in cutting the carrots, 
turnips, leeks, French beans and celery into 
small pieces, either round or long. Having 
well plucked and washed them, I put these ve- 
getables into a saucepan over the fire, with a 
largish piece of fresh butter. When these are 
half-done, I add the sorrel and green peas. Af- 
ter the whole has been stewed down, I moisten 
the vegetables with good gravy, prepared for 
the purpose, with good meat and poultry. I 
let the whole boil half an hour. Then I with- 
draw the lire to let it grow cool ; and having put 
the Julienne into bottles, 8cc. I let it boil half an 
hour in the water-bath. Julienne prepared in 
this way, has been kept by me more than two 
years. 

The Julienne au maigre is prepared in the 
same manner, except that, instead of gravy, I 
moisten my vegetables, when well dressed, with 
a clear vegetable soup, either of French beans, 
lentils, or large green peas, which I have pre- 
served ; and I give it in like manner half an 
hour's boiling in the water-bath. 



SECT. XXVI. 



Vegetable Soap. 
(Coulis de Racines.) 

I compose and prepare a vegetable soup in 
the usual way ; I make the soup so rich, that a 
bottle of the size of a litre can supply a dish for 
twelve persons, by adding two litres of water 
to it, before it is made use of. When it has 
grown cool, I put it in bottles, to give it half an 
hour's boiling in the water-bath. 



SECT. XXVII. 

Tjcvc-Apples. 

(TotnateSy ou Pommes tP Amour.) 

I gather love-apples very ripe, when they, 
have acquired their beautiful colour. Having 
washed and drained them, I cut them into 
pieces, and dissolve them over the fire in a cop- 
per vessel well tinned. When they are well 
dissolved and reduced one third in compass, I 
strain them through a sieve sufficiently fine to 
hold the kernels. When the whole has passed 
through, I replace the decoction on the fire, and 
I condense it till there remains only one third 

e 2 



of the first quantity. Then I let them become 
cool in stone pans, and put them in bottles, kc, 
in order to give them one good boiling only, in 
the water-bath. 

I have not yet tried any experiments with the 
Flower of the love-apple, but there is no doubt 
that this ne,,7 method will furnish means of de- 
riving, at a slight expense, a great value front 
them also, 



SECT. XXVIII. 
Herbs and Medicinal Plants. 

(Plantes Potagtres et Mcdicinales.) 

I filled a bottle with mint (menthc fuAvree) in 
branches and full of flowers. I stirred it with a 
stick to make the bottle hold a greater quanti- 
ty of it. I corked it well, Sec. and gave it a slight 
boiling in the water-bath. It was perfectly pre- 
served. 

The same may be done with all plants to be 
preserved in bunches. The operator will cal- 
culate the degree of heat which it will be neces- 
sary to give to the several sv 1 ^*' w * v s of ljs expe- 
riment.* 

* The mode of extracting the juice of plants by mean? of 
water has more or less inconvenience. All those juices which 
have a principle that is very volatile and easy to evaporate, 




SECT. XXIX. 

The Juices of Herbs. 

I have succeeded in preserving very well the 
juices of such plants as lettuce, chervil, borage 
(bourache^) wild succory (chicoree sauvage) wa- 
ter cresses {cresson de fontaine^) Sec. I prepar- 
ed and purified them by the usual process, I 
corked them, &c. in order to give them one boil- 
ing in the water-bath. 

lose infinitely, even in warm water; much more so, therefore, 
when the heat of the water is raised to a higher degree, and 
when the plants have been left for a long time in digestion. 

Aromatic vegetables are infused, when the object is to pre- 
serve the aroma, and not impart to the water the extractive 
principle which the plant contains. Therefore, tea ar.d cof- 
fee are made by infusion. But all the theories ancient and 
modern, and all the new apparatus employed to seize and hold 
fast the aroma of the coffee are still very deficient. 

Ebullition, which is often times resorted to in order to ex- 
tract the aroma of plants by means of distillation, in spite of 
all the apparatus made use of for keeping the same closed up, 
jnost frequently destroys the nature of the productions. 

Not only are the principles extracted by the water injured 
by this first operation, but they scarcely retain any strength 
after the evaporation which it is usual to make them Undergo, 
in order to form essences of them. The extract, therefore, ex- 
hibits nothing but the appearance of the soluble and nutritive 
principles of vegetable and animal substances; since fire, 
which is necessary to form an essence by means of evapora- 
tion, destroys the aroma and almost all the properties of the 
bubstance which contain* it." 



56 



SECT. XXX. 

Fruits and their Juices, 

Fruits and their juices require the utmost ce- 
lerity in the preparatory process, and particu- 
larly in the application of heat to the water- 
bath. 

The fruit which is to be preserved either 
whole or in quarters, ought not to be complete- 
ly ripe, because it dissolves in the water-bath. 
In like manner it should not be gathered either 
at the commencement or the end of the sea- 
son. The first and the last of the crop have 
neither the line flavour, nor the perfume of 
those which are gathered in the height of the 
season, that is, when the greater part of the 
crop of each species is ripe at the same period. 



SECT. XXXI. 

White and Red Currants in Bunches. 

(Givseilles rouges et blanches en Grappes.) 

I gather the white and red currants apart, and 
not too ripe. I collect the finest, and in the fi- 
nest bunches ; and I bottle them, taking care 
to shake them down on the stool, in order to 
fill up the vacancies in the bottle. Then I cork 
inerty Sec. in order to put them in the water- 



5v 

bath which I am careful to watch closely ; and 
as soon as I perceive it boils, I withdraw the 
fire rapidly, and a quarter of an hour afterwards 
draw off the water from the bath by means of 
the cock, Sec. 



SECT. XXXII. 
White and Red Currants, stripped. 

(Groscilks rouges ei blanches tgrtntes,) 

I stripped the white and red currants apart. 
They are immediately put into bottles, and I 
conclude the operation with the same attention 
as in preserving the currants in bunches. I 
preserve a greater quantity of currants strip- 
ped than in bunches ; as the stalks always give 
a harshness to the currant juice. 



SECT. XXXIII. 

Cherries, Raspberries* Mulberries. 

{Cerises, Framboises, Mures ct Cassis.) 

I gather these fruits before they are too ripe, 
that they may be less squeezed in the opera- 
tion. I put them in separate bottles, and shake 
the bottles gently on the stool. I cork them, 



58 



&c. and I complete them in the same manner* 
and with the same care as the currants. 



SECT. XXXIV. 
Juice of Red Currants. 

I gather red currants quite ripe, and squeeze 
them upon fine sieves. I put into a press the 
skins which remain upon the sieves, in order to 
extract all the juice which may be in them, and 
this I mix with the former juice. I perfume 
the whole with a little raspberry juice, and I 
strain this decoction through a sieve finer than 
those used before. I put the juice in bottles, 
he. and expose them to the water-bath, with 
the same attention as the stripped currants, 8cc. 

I proceed in the same manner with the juice 
of white currants and barberries (e f lines -vinet- 
i as well as with that of pomegranates, or- 
anges, and lemons. 



SECT. XXXV. 

Strawberries. 

(Fraises.) 

I made a number of experiments 041 the 
strawberry, and in various ways, without being; 



59 



able to obtain its perfume. I was forced to 
have recourse to sugar : in consequence, I 
squeezed some strawberries, and strained them 
through a sieve, as if I were about to make ice. 
I added half a pound of powder sugar, with the 
juice of half a lemon, to a pound of strawber- 
ries. I mixed the whole together, and put the 
decoction in bottles which I corked, &c. I ex- 
posed it to a water-bath till it began to boil, &c. 
This mode succeeded very well, in every re- 
spect, except the colour, which was considera- 
bly faded ; but that may be supplied* 



SECT. XXXVL 



Apricots. 

{Abricots.) 

For the table, the wild and garden apricot 
(Vabricot commun, et Vabricot jiec/ie) both taken 
from trees standing free in the open air, are the 
best kinds for preservation : I commonly min- 
gle these two kinds together, because the for- 
mer supports the latter, which has more sugar 
in it, and which dissolves more from the action 
of heat. They may nevertheless be prepared 
apart, provided the precaution be taken, of let- 
ting the garden peach remain a few minutes 
less, in the water-bath than the wild peach. — . 
That is, as soon as the water-bath begins to 
boil, the fire is- to.be taken away from the gar- 



60 



den peach, while the fire maybe allowed to re- 
main under the wild peach until the water-bath 
completely boils. 

I gather the apricots when they are ripe, but 
somewhat firm ; when, on being squeezed gent- 
ly between the fingers, the stone is perceived to 
detach itself from the fruit. As soon as gather- 
ed, I cut them in halves, take out the stone, 
and peel off the skin with a knife as delicately 
as possible. I put them into bottles, either in 
halves or quarters, according to the size of the 
mouth, and shake them on the stool to fill up 
the vacancies. I add to each bottle from twelve 
to fifteen almonds ; I cork them and put them 
into the water-bath to receive one boiling only ; 
and I instantly withdraw the fire with the same 
precaution as made use of in the preparation of 
the currants, kc. 



SECT. XXXVII. 

Peaches and Nectarines* 

(Peches, Brugnons.) 

The gross e mignonne and the calande are the 
two kinds of peach which unite the most fla- 
vour and perfume. For want of these, I take 
the best I can meet with. 

I gather the nectarine (brugnon) more ripe 
than the peach, because it supports the heat 
better \ an.d on the other hand, I leave the skin 



61 



on it in order to preserve it. Moreover, the 
same process is observed as in preserving the 
nectarine, the peach, and the apricot ; in eve- 
ry instance watching the water-bath closely, as 
I do in preserving the bunches of currants. 



SECT. XXXVIII. 

Prune s from Green Gages and Plums. 

(Prunes de Reim-Claude et filirabellcs.) 

I have made prunes of whole green gages, in- 
cluding the stone and the stalk, as well as of 
other great plums ; and even of perdrigons and 
alberges) which succeeded very well. But 
there are these inconveniences in preserving 
the largest fruits whole, that few of these large 
plums can be put into even a large jar, since 
the vacancies cannot be filled up by shaking 
the fruit, without altogether crushing them ; 
and that when the heat of the water-bath is ap- 
plied to them, they shrink, and the jars are 
found half empty, 

In consequence, I have abandoned this too 
expensive mode, and am. accustomed to pre- 
serve all these large plums, cut in halves, after 
having taken out the stone. This is the easiest 
and most economical manner ; corks of a suffi- 
ciently large size for large objects being very 
dear, and also rare, when the cork is very fine ; 
the vessels too which have a narrow or middling 



62 



iie£k are more easy to be well corked, and the. 
operation is in consequence more certain. As 
to the mirabelle [a small white plum] and all 
other small plums, I prepare them with the 
stone in them, after having taken off the stalk > 
for they are in this way easier to shake close* 
and they leave but few vacancies in the bottles. 
In general, I observe, in the preservation of all 
these prunes, either whole or cut in halves, the 
same process, care and attention, which I have 
pointed out under the head of apricots and 
peaches, 



SECT. XXXIX. 

Pears of every kind. 

Wh$n the pears are peeled, and cut into 
quarters, and the pips with their husks are 
taken out, I put them into bottles, Sec. in order 
to place them in the water-bath. I carefully 
attend to the degree of heat they have to re- 
ceive, which, if they are of a kind usually eaten 
raw, should not be more than sufficient to make 
the water-bath boil. When the preserve con- 
sists of pears usually stewed or boiled, then I 
let them remain boiling in the water-bath, five 
or six minutes. Pears which have fallen from 
the tree require a quarter of an hour's boiling* 
8cc* 



SECT. XL. 



Chesmds, Truffles, and Mushrpgrn^ 

(Mortons, Truffes, etChampig7ions.) 

I pierce chesnnts at the point with the point, 
of a knife, as if I meant to roast them. I put 
them m bottles, and give them one boiling in 
the water-bath. 

Having well washed and brushed the truffles, 
in order to take away all the soil, I cut off the 
upper part gently with a knife. ^ Then I put 
them into bottles either whole or in pieces, ac- 
cording to the diameter of the neck. The re- 
mainder I put in bottles apart. The whole be- 
ing well corked, &c. I put them in the water- 
bath to receive an hour's boiling, &c. It is not 
necessary to recommend that the truffles should 
be sound, and recently gathered. 

I take Mushrooms fresh from the bed, well 
formed and firm. Having peeled and washed 
them, I put them in a saucepan on the fire, with, 
a piece of butter or some good olive oil, in or- 
der to make them eject their liquor. I leave 
them on the fire till this liquor is reduced one 
half. I withdraw them in order to let them 
grow cool in a rian ; after which, I bottle them 
and give them one good boiling in the water- 
bath. 



64 



SECT. XLI. 

The Juice of the Grape or Must. 

During the vintage of 1808, I took black 
grapes, carefully gathered from the vine ; after 
having tak^n away the rotten and green grapes, 
and stripped the others from the stalks, I 
squeezed Jiem upon a fine sieve, and after- 
wards put into a press the husks which remain- 
ed on the sieve, in order to extract the remain- 
der of the juice ; and then put the produce both 
of the sieve and the press into one cask. Ha- 
ving let it stand in this state twenty-four hours, 
I put it in bottles, -fee. to give it one good boil- 
ing in the water-bath. When the operation 
was completed, I withdrew the bottles from 
the boiler. The action of the fire had precipi- 
tated the little colour which the grape-juice 
had assumed during the preparation, and it was 
become very white. I then placed it in my la- 
boratory in a rack as if it had been wine. 

I repeated all these experiments on the 10th 
of September, 1809, in the presence of the spe- 
cial commission nominated by his Excellency 
the Minister of the Interior, composed of the 
most distinguished persons of the profession. 

New experiments which I have begun, as 
well as others which I purpose to make on va- 
rious objects, will be detailed in a memoir 
which I shall publish as soon as I shall be able 
to speak of their result. 



OF THE MODE OF MAKING- USE OF THE SU£S1<A£ 
CES WHICH HAVE BEEN PRESERVED, 



SECT. XLIL 
Meal, Game, Poultry^ Fish. 

Meat which has in the preparatory dressings 
as well as the boiling it received in the water- 
bath, received its due quantity of cooking, will, 
when it is taken to be used, require only to be 
properly warmed in order to produce both soup 
and meat ( pot age et bouilli.) 

For the sake of greater economy, and to 
lessen the number of bottles and jars wanted, it 
is better to make in the first instance a good 
gravy as already pointed out by me. For both 
the beef and the gravy need onkr to be warmed, 
and by adding one half or two-thirds of water 
to the gravy a good soup is provided. 

In this manner, a bottle containing a litre of 
gravy may, by adding two litres of boiling water 
to it at the moment that it is to be used, and 
adding a little salt, furnish a dozen good messes. 
Thus it is easy at a very slight expense to keep 
a little stock of provisions against an emergen- 
cy and hot weather, when it is so difficult to 
procure them, more especially in the country, i 

All meat, poultry, game, and fish, which have 
received three-fourths of their dressing in the 
..preparatory process, and the remainder in the 

f 2 



66 



water-bath, as already pointed out, may, when 
taken out of the vessels, be heated to the pro- 
per degree in order to be instantly served at 
table. If, for instance, the substance taken 
from the bottle or jar, had not received either 
enough previous dressing, or enough heat from 
the water-bath ; it is immediately put on the 
fire in order to supply what is deficient. Con- 
sequently, when the operator has taken due 
care in making his preparations, having pro- 
perly seasoned and dressed them, the use to be 
made of them afterwards, will at all events be 
easy and convenient ; for on the one hand they 
will need only to be warmed, and on the other 
hand, they may, if necessary, be eaten cold. 

Substances thus prepared and preserved, do 
not, as might be imagined, require to be con* 
surned as soon as they are opened. Provisions 
maybe used from a vessel eight or ten days 
after it has been uncorked,* care being taken 
only to replace the cork as soon as the necessa- 
ry part of the provision has been taken out. 
Besides, it is easy to regulate the size of the 
vessels from one to twenty-five litres or more, 
according to the rapidity of the expected con- 
sumption. 

* See the report made to the Socitti d? Encouragement pour 
P Industrie nationale, by Mr. Bouriat, in the name of the 
Committee. Two half-bottles, one of milk, the other of whey,, 
after remaining uncorked from twenty to thirty days, had 
been recorked with little cork ; nevertheless the two sub- 
stances retained all their properties/ 



63 



SECT. XLIIL 
Jellies made of Meat and Poultry. 

A well prepared and preserved jelly, care- 
fully taken in pieces out of the jar may be used 
to garnish cold dishes, or it may be even dis- 
solved in the water-bath, the vessel containing 
it being first uncorked ; afterwards it may be 
poured in a dish to congeal again before it is 

made use of. 

Under an infinity of circumstances, a cook 
may be in want of the substances necessary to 
make a sauce with. But with the essences of 
meat, poultry, ham, &c. as well as with a pro- 
vision of jelly well preserved and prepared, 
they may be furnished in an instant. 

The broth or jelly prepared and preserved 
as pointed out in page 37 is eaten either cold 
as it is found in the bottles, or diluted with 
more or less boiling water, in the proportions 
which persons of experience may judge suita- 
ble in the several instances. 



SECT. XLIV. 

Milk and Cream. 

Cream, Milk, and Whey, prepared and p*£- 
servedin the manner already pointed out, are 



68 



used in the same way, and for the same daily 
purposes, as the same articles when fresh. 

Since cream and milk are perfectly preserv- 
ed in this manner, there is no doubt that dessert- 
creams might be preserved by a similar pro- 
cess, as well as those which are used for ices. 
These, having been well prepared and comple- 
ted before they are put into bottles, will only 
require to be gently warmed in the water-bath, 
the bottles being uncorked, in order to facili- 
tate its coming out of the vessel. In this 
manner creams and ices may be furnished in- 
stantly. 



SECT. XLY. 
Vegetables. 

Vegetables put into bottles without being 
dressed, and entirely submitted to the action of 
heat in the water-bath, as before described, re- 
quire to be prepared for use on being taken out 
of the bottles. This preparation will be made 
according to the season, and every one's taste 
and inclination. Attention must 'be given to 
the washing of the vegetables when taken from 
the bottle ; and to facilitate the taking them out, 
I fill the bottle with luke-warm water, and af- 
ter having drained it of the first water, I wash 
the vegetables in a second water somewhat hot- 
ter, and having drained them, I then prepare 
them for a meat or vegetable soup.. 



69 



SECT. XL VI. 
French Beans, 

(Haricots.) 

I scald French beans (haricots verts,) as if 
they were fresh in water, with a little salt when 
not sufficiently" dressed by the preserving pro- 
cess. This often happens to them as well as to 
artichokes, asparagus and cauliflowers. If suf- 
ficiently boiled, on being taken out of the bot- 
tles, I have only to wash them in hot water in 
order to prepare them afterwards for vegetable 
or meat soup. 

I scald in the same way the beans of the ha- 
ricot blanc ; when sufficiently dressed, I take 
them from the fire and leave them in the boil- 
ing water, half an hour, and even an hour, in or- 
der to render them more tender ; I then pre- 
pare them for soup. 



SECT. XLVIL 

Peas, Beans^ &c. 

Green peas are dressed in various ways. If 
they are ill cooked in the season, it is the cook 
who is blamed ; but if they are not found good 
in winter, the fault is thrown on the person who* 
has preserved them, though the fault most fre- 



70 



quently arises from some of the substances em > 
ployed ; either from the bad butter, or the oil 
or rancid fat which is made use of through neg- 
ligence or economy. At another time they 
are prepared two hours too soon. They are 
suffered to stick to the bottom of the saucepan 
when on the fire, and they are served smelling 
of the butter which is turned into oil with a 
burnt taste ; or they are prepared without care, 
and with too much precipitation. It is thus we 
see green peas brought to the table swimming 
in water ; but every one has his way. The fol- 
lowing is mine : 

As soon as the peas have been washed and 
immediately afterwards drained (for neither this 
vegetable nor the windsor-bean must be suffer- 
ed to remain in water, for that would take away 
their flavour,) I put them on the fire in a sauce- 
pan with a morsel of good fresh butter. I add 
to them a bunch of parsley and chives. After 
having tossed them several times in butter, I 
dredge them with a little flour, and moisten 
them immediately afterwards with boiling wa- 
ter up to the level of the peas. I leave them 
thus to be boiled a good quarter of an hour, un- 
til very little sauce remains. Then I season 
them with salt and a little pepper, and leave 
them on the fire until they are stewed down ; I 
then take them off the fire immediately, in or- 
der to add a piece of fresh butter as large as a 
nut, with a table spoonful of powder sugar for 
each bottle of peas. I toss them well without 
replacing them on the fire, until the butter is 
melted, and I serve them up in the shape of a 



71 



pyramid upon a dish, which I take care to warm 
thoroughly. I have observed several times, 
that by adding sugar to the peas when upon the 
fire, and giving them only one boiling, the peas 
became hard, and the sauce ran so that it could 
no longer bind the peas together. Thus great 
attention should be given to the not putting in 
the sugar and the last piece of butter until the 
moment of serving them .up. This is the only 
way of dressing them well, for neither in sum- 
mer nor winter ought any sauce to appear 
among the peas. 

There is another mode of eating green peas, 
and which may suit many persons ; this consists 
in simply boiling the peas in water. When done, 
the water is drained off and the peas are tossed 
with a piece of good fresh butter, salt, pepper 
and sugar, all together over a very gentle fire, 
they are then served up directly upon a very 
hot dish. Care must be taken that the peas d6 
not boil with the seasoning, otherwise the but- 
ter turns into oil, and the green peas are dis- 
solved in the water. 

I cook the small windsor-beans, as well with 
as without their skin, by the same process and 
with the same attentions which I observe in 
dressing green peas. 

I make an excellent soup-maigre, with large 
preserved peas which are equally good for a 
meat soup. As to asparagus, artichokes, cau- 
liflowers, &c, they are dressed in the usual way 
after having been washed, &c Green peas, 
beans, French beans, and all kinds of vegeta- 
bles may be three fourths boiled, seasoned at 



v2 



the same time, as is done when intended for im- 
mediate use, put into bottles or other vessels 
when cool, corked, &c. and allowed one half 
hour's boiling in the water-bath. By these 
means vegetables will be preserved and quite 
ready, which may be made use of in an instant? 
without any other care than to warm them ; and 
there are also many instances in which these 
vegetables may be eaten cold. In this way all 
difficulties may be removed in travelling by 
land or water. 



SECT. XLVIIL 

Spinage and Succory. 

1 dress spinage and succory as usual, in 
either vegetable or meat soup. Each bottle of 
a litre contains two or three dishes, either of 
spinage or succory, according to their strength. 
When I want to make use of a part only, I re- 
cprk the bottle, which I keep for another day . 



SECT. XLIX. 

Vegetable Soups. 

Having emptied a bottle containing a litre of 
preserved Julkme, I add two litres of boiling 



73 



•water with a little salt, and I have a dish for 
twelve or fifteen persons. 

As well as a Julienne, a conlis de ratines^ a 
soup of lentils, carrots, onions, Sec. being well 
prepared, furnishes with the greatest economy, 
excellent dishes in an instant. 

All farinaceous substances, such as oatmea] ? 
rice, spelt, semoulia, vermicelli, and in general 
every thing that may be formed into a paste, nu- 
tritive and easy of digestion, may be prepared 
and seasoned with either vegetable or meat 
soup, and even with milk, before they are made 
to undergo the preserving process, in order to 
facilitate the use of them at sea and in armies 
at a moment of necessity. 



SECT. 

Tomatcs mid Herbs, 

I use preserved tomates or lovc-afi/iles in 
the same manner as those taken fresh in the 
season. They need only to be properly warm- 
ed and seasoned when taken out of the bottle. 

A Sorrel preserved in the manner pointed 
out, does not, when taken out of the bottle, in 
the least differ from fresh sorrel in June. I 
make use of it in the same way. 

As to mint (menthe -fiorvree) and. all other 
plants which may be preserved in bunches ; 
cooks will know how to make the proper use oF 
them, as well as of the juices of herbs, 

G 



SECT. LI. 
Preserved Fruits, MaririclcJes, &c. 

The manner of making use of fruitsj pre- 
served by the process I have pointed out, con- 
sists, 1st. In putting such fruit into a fruit jar, 
in the same state in which it is in the bottle, 
without adding any sugar, because many per- 
sons, more especially ladies, prefer fruits with 
their natural juice. At the same time I pre- 
pare another jar with a preserve of grape-syrup 
or powder sugar, for those who prefer it. I 
have from experience learnt that grape-syrup 
preserves the aroma and agreeable acidity of 
fruits much better than sugar. This is a very 
simple and economical mode of preparing an 
excellent dish of preserved fruits, which is the 
more convenient, as every one can satisfy his 
own taste as to the mixture of sugar with his 
fruits. 

2. In order to make preserves with sugar 
{compotes sucrees,) I take a pound of preserved 
fruits, it matters not which ; this, on being ta- 
ken out cf the bottle, I put, with its juice, over 
the fire in a skimming pan, mixing with it four 
ounces of grape-syrup. As soon as it begins 
to boil, I withdraw it from the fire, and take off 
the froth by means of a piece of brown papers 
which I apply to the surface. As soon as I 
have skimmed it, I take the fruit gently off the 
syrup, in order to put it into a fruit-jar. After 
having reduced the syrup one half over the fire, 



7d 

I put it upon the fruit in the jar. Fruits thus 
preserved are sufficiently sweet, and have as 
line a flavour as a preserve made in the season 
with fresh fruits. 

3d. In order to preserve in brandy either 
cherries, apricots, green-gages, pears, peaches, 
mirabelles, &c. (compotes a Veau de vie) I take 
a pound of preserved fruit, together with its 
juice, which I put in a saucepan, on the fire, 
together with a quarter of a pound of grape 
syrup. When ready to boil, I skim it ; after 
which, I gently take the fruit from off the syrup, 
and put it in a jar. I leave the syrup on the 
fire till it is reduced to one fourth of its bulk. 
Then I take it from the fire in order to add to 
it a glass of good brandy ; and having mixed 
the whole, I pour the hot syrup upon the fruit 
in the jar, which I take care to close well that 
the fruit may be better penetrated by the syrup, 

The preserved pear and peach may be alike 
made use of to make a Burgundy wine con- 
serve with cinnamon, as well as compotes gril- 

Ice s • 

4th. I make a mamielade, either of apricots, 
peaches, green-gages, or mirabelles, by the fol- 
lowing process : I take for one pound of pre- 
served fruit, half a pound of grape syrup. # I 
boil the whole together overa quick fire, taking 
care to stir it well with a spodn to prevent its 
boiling. When the marmelade is boiled to a 
slight consistency, I take it off, because the con- 
fectionary which is the least boiled is the best. 
As preserved fruits afford a facility of making 
confectionary just when it is wanted, they may, 



76 



jby a little boiling only, be had at any time, fresh 
and of excellent quality. 



SECT. LIT. 
Currant Jam, 

The mode of making currant jam with the 
juice of this preserved fruit, is quite simple. 
I put half a pound of sugar to one pound of 
currant juice, which ought to be perfumed with 
a little raspberry. Having clarified and dissolv- 
ed my sugar, I put the currant juice to it, and 
give it three or four boilings ; and when it falls 
from the skimmer in small lumps not larger 
than a lentil, I take it from the fire to put it in 
jars, &c, 



SECT, LIIL 

Syrup of Currants. 

In order to make syrup of currants, I warm 
the juice of this fruit till it is ready to boil. I 
then strain it through a cloth. By these means 
I obtain the juice, limpid, and freed from its 
nyucillage. When strained, I add half a pound 
of grape syrup to a pound of fruit, and put the 
whole on the fire together ; when, boiled to the 



consistence of a slight syrup, I take it from the 
fire to put it in bottles when it is cold. 

There is a very simple and economical mode 
of making use, not only of currant juice, but 
that of all fruits which are employed to compose 
an acid beverage. 

This mode consists merely in putting into a 
glass of water slightly sweetened with grape 
syrup, a table spoonful of the juice of preserv- 
ed currant, or of any other fruit that may be at. 
hand, which is poured into another glass and 
then drank off. This mode is the more con- 
venient, because it will be always easy to have 
these preserved juices at hand, or to procure 
them at a small expense. In this way my fa- 
mily has been, for the space of fifteen years, in 
the habit of making use of currant juice ; and 
most frequently we prepare this substitute for 
lemonade, without either sugar or syrup.. 



SECT. LIV. 
Ices. 

I have prepared and made, in the mode usual- 
ly employed in the fruit season, ices of currants, 
raspberries, apricots, and peaches, as well as 
strawberries, preserved in the manner pointed 
out by me. 

I made these experiments before the late im- 
provement in the art of making grape syrup, 
but now that this production has been brought 

g 2 



78 



yearly to perfection, the syrup of the acid grape 
manufactured by Mr. Privat of Meze, will soon 
advantageously supply the place of the juice of 
the sugar cane, in the preparation of the ices of 
fruit. As I have already observed, the grape 
syrup preserves the aroma of all fruits better 
than sugar. Sugar overpowers to so great a 
degree the taste of the fruits, that it is necessa- 
ry to add some lemons to the ices of fruits, in 
order, as it were, to bring out the aroma, 
When therefore the juice of an acid grape shall 
be made use of, the lemons will become unne- 
cessary, and the ices of fruit will be the richer. 
The sweet syrups of the grape will be success - 
fully made use of with all ice-creams. 



SECT. LY. 
Cordials. 

( Liqueurs.) 

I have composed liqueurs and ratafies with, 
the juice of preserved fruits and sweetened 
with grape syrup. These preparations yield- 
ed in nothing to the best home-made liqueurs. 

The simple and easy modes which I have 
pointed out, of preparing every kind of pre- 
served fruit for daily use, prove sufficiently 
that this method, as sure as it is useful, will in- 
troduce the greatest economy in the consump- 
tieri of the produce of the sugar-cane, The 



^79 



consumer, and more especially the manufactu- 
rer, who is obliged to lay in during summer, a 
considerable stock of this foreign commodity 
for syrups, liqueurs and confectionary, as well 
as all the objects of pharmacy, may dispense 
with it ; for it will be sufficient if they lay m an 
adequate stock of fruit in the season, and pre- 
pare it in the manner pointed out, to be exempt 
from the necessity of preparing it with sugar, 
except on an emergency, and in the quantities 
actually wanted. It will follow that the greater 
part of ail these fruits will be preserved, alto- 
gether without, or at least with a small quanti- 
ty of sugar ; that many of them will be prepa- 
red with grape syrup, and that the sugar from 
the cane will be made use of only for indispen- 
sable objects, or to comply with the old habits, 
and gratify the luxury of a few. 

It "will follow, that in a plentiful year, sugar 
will not be necessary in order to provide, against 
a scanty season ; and that, with a slight expense, 
th same enjoyment will be derived from the 
preserved produce of two, three, and four years, 
;vs from a year of plenty. 



SECT. LVI. 

Chesnuts, Truffles, Mushrooms. 

On taking the chesnuts out* of the vessel in. 
which they have been preserved, I plunge 
then* in cold water, sprinkle them with a little 



SO 



line salt, and roast them in a pan over a quick 
lire. In this manner they are excellent. The 
moistening them and the putting salt upon 
them may be dispensed with, but they must 
always be roasted over a quick fire. 

I make the same use of preserved truffles 
and mushrooms, as of those recently gathered. 



SECT. LVLL 

Grape Jake, cr Must. 

When I made my first experiments of pre- 
serving grape juice in its fresh state, I was un- 
acquainted with Mr. Parmentier's "Informa- 
tion concerning the means of furnishing a sub- 
stitutefor sugar, in the principal uses made of 
it in medicine and domestic economy."* It is 
this valuable information which supplied me 
with the means of availing myself of fresh ex- 
periments, and making use of two hundred bot- 
tles of grape juice preserved by me six months 
before. 

1st. I made very good grape syrup, following 
the process of Mr. Parmentier, which is literal- 
ly as follows : 

( , f " ^instruction sur les mo-yens de suppleer le sucre dam Us 
pnncipaux usages qu' on enfaitpourlamedecmeet I' 
domeshque; par M. Parmentier," 



81 



Preparation of Grape Syrufi. 

"You take twenty-four [French] pints of 
grape juice, and put one half of it in a boiler 
placed on the fire, with the precaution of not 
suffering it to boil with too much force. You 
add fresh juice as that in the boiler evaporates ; 
you skim it and stir the surface to add to the 
evaporation. When the whole of the juice has 
been put into the boiier, you skim it, you take 
the boiler off the fire, and add some lye ashes 
tied up in a cloth, or whitiDg (blanc (PEsfiagne^ 
Spanish, or Troy-white,) or cnalk reduced to a 
powder, and first diluted in a little grape juice, 
until it no longer effervesces, or, as it were, 
boils in the liquor which was shaken. 

" By these means, the acid contained in the 
grape, is separated and neutralized. In order 
to try the liquor, put blue paper into it, and 
when it does not turn red, then you may be sa- 
tisfied that the liquor is no longer acid. Re- 
place the boiier on the fire, after having let it 
settle an instant, and put in two whites of beat- 
en eggs. vS train the liquor through a wool- 
len cloth, fixed on a wooden frame of twelve or 
fifteen square inches, so that it occupies little 
room ; then boil again, and continue the evapo- 
ration. 

" In order to know whether the syrup be suf- 
ficiently condensed, let some drop from a spoon 
upon a plate : if the drop falls without spirting 
or spreading^ or if when divided, the halves run 
into each other again but slowly > then you may 



ft 9 

infer that it has acquired the proper consisten- 
cy. 

" Pour it into an earthen vessel which is not 
varnished ; and when completely cold, transfer 
it to vessels of a moderate size, neat, dry, and 
well corked ; and place it in the cellar. A 
bottle once opened, should not remain long on- 
ly half filled ; and when you make use of it, take 
care to hold the neck downwards. 

" It is hardly possible to determine precisely, 
the quantity of chalk or ashes necessary to be 
used. Less is required in the south than in the 
north, but at all events, more than is necessa- 
ry will do no harm, since it remains upon the 
straining cloth with the other insoluble salts 
and the skim. 

" If in order to preserve these syrups for a 
longer time, you were to carry on the boiling 
too long, you would find yourself mistaken ; for 
the syrup would not fail to chrystalize at the 
bottom of the vessel, while the body would be- 
come thin s on the other hand, if the syrup 
were not sufficiently evaporated, it would soon 
ferment. A housekeeper who has made these 
syrups twice, will have learnt the degree of 
boiling which ought to be given to the syrup, 
better than can be taught her by rule." 

Syrups and Ratafies. 

With this same syrup, I have prepared pre- 
serves, confectionary, syrups and beverages, 
as well as liqueurs and ratafies of all the kinds 
of fruit I have spoken of. 



83 



2d. I made syrup of the same grape juioe 
and by the same process, except that I boiled 
the latter but slightly, that is, one quarter less 
than the former ; as I wished to satisfy myself 
whether it would be preserved by the applica- 
tion of heat to the water-bath, in the way before 
pointed out. Having prepared my syrup, I 
put it, when cold, into three half bottles ; one 
full, and the other a quarter empty. I corked 
and sealed the bottles, and let them remain in 
the water-bath only till it boiled, &c. I re- 
marked no difference in the full and half . full 
bottles, and all three were completely preserv- 
ed. 

3d. 1 took six pints of preserved grape juice, 
to which I added two pints of good old proof 
brandy, and also two pounds of gra^pe syrup, 
Which I had prepared. This preparation which 
I mixed well, I made use of to compose four 
kinds of liqueur, by means of infusions of apri- 
cot-kernels, mint, orange flower, badian, which 
I had prepared before : these liqueurs having 
been well strained, were found very good, and 
sufficiently sweet. 

' 4th. I took two bottles of preserved grape 
juice, which I poured into two other fit bottles. 
1 corked and tied these bottles, and left them 
standing upright ten days. During this inter- 
val, the liquor caused its cork to burst, like the 
best Chamnasrne wine, and mantled in the same 
way. 

5th. I repeated this last experiment in the 
same manner. At the end of twelve or fifteen 
days, observing no appearance of fermentation 



84 



in the bottles, I uncorked them in order to let 
in xYi' air, and I then put into them a table 
spoonful of preserved raspberry juice. Hav- 
ing re -corked and sealed them, I let them re- 
main eight days longer upright. At the end of 
that time, both the white and the red juice (le 
blanc et le rose) caused the cork to spring out. 
They mantled completely, and were very agree- 
able to the taste, particularly the red, perfumed 
with raspberry. 

After these experiments made of the massy 
grape [in the department of Seine and Oise^ it 
is more than probable that in the fine vineyards 
of the South, infinitely more precious results 
will be drawn from the making use of this me- 
thod. Grape juice will be preserved there, in 
order, by congelation, to reduce it at will, to 
the consistence of syrup, after having taken 
away its acid for the sweet syrup ; or if the 
juice be condensed over the fire, the quantity 
of boiling made use of for condensing the syrup, 
will, by the operation of heat in the water-bath 
in any preparatory process, be rendered imma- 
terial for the preservation of the syrup for se- 
veral years.* 

By means of this process, which is easy to be 
put in practice, and of little expense in the exe- 
cution, syrups may be obtained clear and white 

* The original is more precise, and refers to an instrument 
made use of in France for ascertaining the density of liquors, 
an Araeometer, which, at least in its application to grape 
syrup, is unknown in this country : the words are, " les de- 
gresde cuis. m dc$Z5, 30, ou33 a Var^omitre^ devient indifferent 
'poxiT cen'servcr ces sirups," $c. T. 



85 



(even when produced from black grapes,) and 
of a pure sweetness, free from a certain flavour 
of molasses and burnt sugar, from which it has 
not hitherto been found possible to exempt 
grape syrup, when boiled in the ordinary mode, 
sufficient for its preservation. 

Thus this precious production, preserved in 
bottles and vessels of every size, may be trans- 
ported to a great distance and in all seasons, 
coming from Bergerac, Meze, and all the ma- 
nufactories of the South, to improve the pro- 
duce of our small vineyards, and make all 
classes of society share in the enjoyment of 
this useful resource. 



SECT. LV IIL 

General Observations. 

From this detail of experiments, it is obvfous 
that this new method of preserving animal and 
vegetable substance, proceeds from the simple 
principle of applying heat in a due degree to 
the several substances, after having deprived 
them as much as possible of all contact v/illi the 
external air. 

It might on the first view of the subject be 
thought that a substance, either raw or previ- 
ously acted upon by fire, and afterwards put in- 
to bottles, might, if a vacuum were made in 
those bottles and they were completely corked, 
be preserved equally well with the application 



86 



of heat in the water-bath. This would be an 
error, for all the trials I have made have con- 
vinced me that the absolute privation of the con- 
tact of external air (the internal air being ren- 
dered of no effect by the action of heat) and the 
application of heat by means of the water-bath, 
are both indispensable to the complete preser* 
vation of alimentary substances. 

My object is not like that of the Bordeaux 
chymists, to disunite the component parts of the 
animal substance, and obtain the animal jelly 
in a separate state, as well as the animal fibre, 
free from its juice, and so made to resemble 
tanned leather. Neither is it my endeavour to 
furnish at a great expense, as in the prepara- 
tion of portable soup, a tenacious paste or glue, 
better adapted to derange the stomach than to 
provide it with a salutary nourishment. ^ 

My problem is, to preserve all nutritive sub- 
stances with all their peculiar and consituent 
qualities. My experiments prove that I have re- 
solved this problem.* 

* Some persons of enlightened understandings, but who 
have perhaps, delivered themselves over to the spirit of 
system and prejudice, have declared themselves against my 
method, alleging a pretended impossibility. But is it then 
difficult on the principles of a sound, natural philosophy, to as- 
sign a reason for the preservation of alimentary substance by 
•W process ? May we not infer, that the application of caloric, 
or heat, to the water-bath, operates m producing a gentle 
fusion of the constituent fermenting principles, so as to de- 
stroy the predominating agency of fermentation? This agen- 
cy is an essential condition of fermentation, at least of ics ta- 
tfne place with a certain promptitude. Further, there is no fer- 
mentation without air ; this being also excluded by my me- 
thod we have two assignable causes for its success: the the- 
ory of which appears fiow naturally from fte niearjsjwac- 



It is to the solution of this problem that I 
have devoted my fortune and twenty years ot 
labour and meditation. Happy that I have al- 
ready been able to render service to my fel.ow- 
citizens and humanity, I rely on the justice, ge- 
nerosity and intelligence of a wise government, 
whichneverfailstoencourageusefuldiscoyeru-s, 

That crovernment will perceive that the inven- 
tor of this method of preservation could .not ob- 
tain from the invention itself an indemnification 
for his labour and expense. The chief import- 
ance of this process lies in its subservience to 
the wants of civil and military hospitals, and 
particularly of the navy. It is in these depart- 
ments of the public service that my process 
mav be employed in a manner advantageous to 
the state, and it is from them that 1 may receive 
the just reward of my labours. I expect every 
thins? from the beneficent views of the mimstei, 
and my expectations will not be disappointed. 

Indeed, if we refer to any of the methods made use of and 
onv nf the exDeriments and observations of ancient and mo- 
de n t ^,up P on 'tne preservation of f™™W^ C £ 
with which we are acquainted, we shall find that ftre is every 
where the principal agent, either in themtaral dnratvon, or 
in the artificial preservation ot vegetable and animal suo 

Sta Fafroni has proved thattaeatapplied to grape juice mm*, 
destroys the fermentation of this vegeio-amrm I, ^ h * ^ 
eminently leaven. Thenard has made like ^im.^s on 
cherries, gooseberries, and other fruits. The ^penments m 
the late f4r«, and of Mr . Cables, learned chy mists at Bo r 
deaux who have dried meat by means of stoves, equally 
prove tot the application of heat destroys the agents o, pu- 

tr Drying; boiling, evaporating, as well as the caustic and sa- 
vour? sutetance 9 g 'which are employed in .the P™^™ £ 
alimentary productions, all serve to show that caloric ,n ,ts 
varions modes of application, produces the same eflMts. 



88 



SECT. LIX. 
Practical Remarks. 

The bottles and other vessels of every kind 
fit for the preservation of alimentary substances 
will occasion but a very slight expense at one 
time. They may be always used again, if care 
be taken to rince them as soon as they are emp- 
ty ; good corks, string and wire are not expen- 
sive. As soon asthe method is known, proper 
bottles and jars will be met with at the manu- 
facturers, corks of every size and properly pre- 
pared for use will be furnished by the cork-cut- 
ters, as well as iron-wire fit for use. 

It will be always advisable to procure corks 
before bottles, and in that case no other bottles 
need be purchased than such as may have necks 
suited to the size of the corks, for I have been 
often unable to procure corks of such a size as I 
rould wish. 

The glass-houses of la Garre^ Seves, and des 
Premontres near Courcy-le-Chatcau, are alrea- 
dy accustomed to the manufactory of corks and 
jars necessary for the preserving process. I 
am most satisfied *with the latter, which has 
served me for the last four years. 

Good corking depends only on a little prac- 
tice. It will suffice to cork a dozen bottles with 
care and exactness, in order to familiarize a 
person with the method. Every day, wine and 
liquors are bottled and transported by land and 
water to the remotest places. Even glass ves~ 



89 



sels containing from forty to eighty litres in 
measure have been sent to a great distance full 
of oil of vitriol and other liquids. It will be the 
same with animal and vegetable productions, 
preserved in glass bottles or jars, when suffi- 
cient care and attention shall be given them. 
This is the principal thing required. How ma- 
ny rich liquors and other substances would be 
better preserved which are either lost or spoil- 
ed for want of being well corked ! 

No one will doubt, after all the experiments I 
have detailed, that the adoption of this new me* 
thod, which, as may be seen, unites the greatest 
economy to a perfection unlooked for till the 
present time, will secure the following advan* 
tages. 

1. That of considerably diminishing the con- 
sumption of sugar, the produce of the Cane, and 
of giving the greatest extension to the manu- 
factories of grape syrup. 

2. That of preserving for use in all countries 
and all seasons, a number of alimentary and me* 
dicinal productions, which being very abundant 
in some places at certain seasons,»are therefore 
wasted, being considered as of no value ; while 
the same substances, under other circumstan* 
ces being much wanted, become of double and 
even fourfold value ; and sometimes cannot be 
procured at any price, stich as butter and eggs. 

3. That of procuring civil and military hos- 
pitals, and even for the armies the most valua- 
ble assistance, the details of which would be 
superfluous here. But the great advantage of 
this method consists principally in its applifea- 

H 2 ' 



90 



tion to the service of the liavy. It wili supply 
fresh and wholesome provisions for his majes- 
ty's vessels on long voyages with a saving of 
more than fifty per cent. Mariners will in case 
of illness be furnished with broth, various and 
cooling beverages, vegetables and fruits ; in a 
word, they will be able to partake of a number 
of alimentary and medicinal substances, which 
will alone be sufficient to prevent or cure the 
diseases contracted at sea, more especially the 
worst of them all, the scurvy. These advanta- 
ges eminently merit the public attention when 
we reflect that salted provisions, and, above^all, 
their bad qualities, have caused the loss of more 
lives at sea than shipwrecks and naval engage- 
ments. 

4. Medicine will find in this method the means 
of relieving humanity, by the facility of meet- 
ing every where, and in all seasons, animal sub- 
stances, and all kinds of vegetables, as well as 
their juices, preserved with all their natural 
qualities and virtues : by the same means it 
will obtain resources infinitely precious in the 
production of distant regions, preserved in their 
fresh state. 

5. From this method will arise a new branch of 
industry, relative to the productions of France, 
by their circulation through the interior, arid 
the exportation abroad, of the produce with 
which nature has blessed the different coun- 
tries. 

6. This method will facilitate the exporta- 
tion of the wine of many vineyards : wine which 
can scarcely be kept a year, even when not re- 



91 



moved from the spot, may hereafter be pre- 
served many years though sent abroad. 

Finally, this invention cannot fail to enlarge 
the domain of chymistry, and become the com- 
mon benefit of all countries, which will derive 
the most precious fruits from it. 

So many advantages, and an infinity of others 
which the imagination of the reader will easily 
conceive, produced by one and the same cause, 
are a source of astonishment. 



92 



SOCIETY FOR THE ENCOURAGEMENT OF NATIONAL 

INDUSTRY. 

Paris, 7th April, 1809. 

The secretary of the society for the encourage- 
ment of national industry, to Mr. Appert, 
proprietor at Massy. 

Sir, 

i" have the pleasure to transmit to you a copy 
of the report made to the Societe d'Encourage- 
ment, by Messrs. Guyton-Morveau,Parmentier, 
and Bouriai, on your preserved vegetable and 
anirrial substances. Nothing can be added to the 
judgment passed by the committee upon your 
discovery. They announce, that it has not been 
in their power to make any experiments^ either 
sufficiently exact, or continued for a sufficient 
length of lime, to enable them to verify to what 
extent the substances prepared by you may be 
preserved ; but what they have themselves ob* 
served, suffices to enable them to form an opi- 
nion to which they were previously disposed, by 
the numerous and decisive testimonies which at* 
test your success. 

The society are of opinion that they are ren* 
dering a service to the country and humanity, 
when they make known so useful a discovery 
with the eulogies which it merits. Their desire 
will be accomplished^ should their suffrage de~ 



93 



f ermine the public to make use of your produc- 
tions, and so contribute to confer upon you the 
just rewards of your labours. 

Accept, sir, the assurance of the perfect res- 
pect with which I have the honour to salute you, 

MATH. MONTMORENCY, 



Secretary, &^ 



94 



EXTRACT FROM THE FROCES-VERBAL OF THE SIT- 
TING OF THE COUNCIL OF ADMINISTRATION, 
"WEDNESDAY, lDTH MARCH, 1809. 

Report, made by Mr. Bouriai, in the name of a 
Special Committee, on Vegetable and Animal 
Substances, preserved by Mr. Appert. 

The council referred to a committee, con- 
sisting of Messrs. Guyton-Morveau, Parmen- 
tier, and myself, the examination of vegetable 
and animal substances presented by Mr. Appert, 
and preserved by his process, for more than 
eight months. 

These substances were, 

1 . Pot-au-feu [a standing French dish of boil- 
ed meat, fowls, &c] 

2. Consomme^ gravy. 

3. Milk. 

4. Whey. 

5. Green Peas. 

6. Small Windsor Beans. 

7. Cherries. 

8. Apricots. 

9. Currant Juice. 
10. Raspberries. 

Each of these articles was contained in an 
earthen vessel hermetically sealed, the cork be- 
ing fastened with iron wire and pitched. Pro- 
ceeding methodically in our inquiry : 

We found in the fiot-au-feu a jelly tolerably 
rich, with a piece of beef and two pieces of fowl 
in the middle. Warming the whole with care-, 
to a suitable degree ? the soup was found goiod. 



95 



and the meat which was separated from it, very 
tender, and of an agreeable flavour. 

The consomme appeared to us to be excellent; 
and though prepared fifteen months before, 
there was scarely any discernible difference be- 
tween its then state, and what it would have 
been, if made fresh the same day. 

The milk was found to be of a yellowish co- 
lour, resembling that of colostrum or beestings, 
more thick, as well as sweeter and more savou- 
ry than the ordinary milk : a superiority it de- 
rives from the concentration it has undergone. 
It may be affirmed that milk of this kind, though 
prepared nine months before, may supply the 
place of the greater part of the cream sold at 
Paris. What, however, will appear more extra- 
ordinary is, that this same milk having Laen 
put into a pint bottle which was uncorked a 
month before, to take out a part of it, and re- 
corked afterwards with little care, was also 
preserved, having undergone scarcely any 
change. At first it appeared to have some- 
what thickened, but a slight shaking was suf- 
ficient to bring back its ordinary liquidity. I 
present it here in the same bottle, that you 
may convince yourselves of a fact, which I 
should have had a difficulty to believe, if I had 
heard of it only, without having the evidence 
before me. 

The whey which we afterwards e^amined^ 
presented some singular appearances not less 
astonishing. It had all the transparency of 
whey recently prepared. Its colour was deep- 
er, it had a stronger taste, and it was somewhat 



96 



thicker. It underwent a change also with less 
rapidity, having been exposed to the air at the 
end of a fortnight; for a bottle opened six weeks 
ago, occasionally shaken, and ill corked, did 
not begin to lose its transparency till the end of 
a fortnight. Its surface at the end of more than 
a month was covered with a somewhat thick 
mouldiness, which when carefully taken off, 
left the remainder still possessing the flavour of 
whey. 

The green fieas and the Windsor beans boil- 
ed with the attention enjoined by Mr. Appert, 
furnished two excellent dishes, which the re- 
moteness of the usual season of such vegetables 
appeared to render still more finely flavoured 
and agreeable. 

Whole cherries ) and apricots cut in quarters 
preserved a great part of the flavour they had 
when gathered. It is true Mr. Appert was 
obliged to gather them before they were quite 
ripe, lest they should lose too much of their 
figure in the glass jars in which they were pre- 
served. 

The currant and rasfiberry juice appeared to 
us to enjoy almost all their qualities. We found 
the aroma of the raspberry perfectly preserved, 
as well as the somewhat aromatic acid of the 
currant. Their colour only was a little faded, 

Such were the results on our examining the 
substances prepared according to Mr. Appert'a 
process, more than eight months, and some of 
them a year, and fifteen months before ; for in- 
stance, the whey. We could only receive his 
statement as to the time of the previous prep?,* 



97 



ration of these articles, as they had been deposit- 
ed but two months with the Society ; but even 
this shorter period is sufficient to give us a fa- 
vourable opinion of the author's process. We 
are the more justified in relying on Mr. Ap- 
pert's declarations, as persons highly worthy of 
credit, have by their own experiments con vine- 
ed themselves that similar substances may be 
preserved for more than a year. Mr. Appert 
forwarded to the Council mere specimens of the 
articles I have enumerated ; but he prepares a 
still greater variety of alimentary substances. 
He did not communicate his process to us. 

Observations. 

The art of better preserving vegetable and 
animal substances in the state in which nature 
produces them, has been to a considerable de- 
gree the object both of pharmacy and chymis- 
try. To attain that end various means have 
been employed. Desiccation, ardent spirits, 
acids and oils, saccharine and saline substances, 
&c. have been made use of; but it must be 
confessed that these means cause many produc- 
tions to lose a part of their properties, or other- 
wise modifies them, so that their aroma and 
flavour are no longer to be recognized. From 
this point of view, the process of Mr. Appert 
appears to us preferable, if without having re- 
course to desiccation he adds no extraneous 
substance to that he wishes to preserve. There 
is every reason to believe that his method is by 
sq much the better, as the substances on which 

i 



98 



he operates are more capable of sustaining so 
high a temperature without a sensible change. 

Several persons of acknowledged merit, have 
by desire of the prefects in different seaports, 
examined Mr. Appert's preparations. It is on- 
ly necessary to read the reports made by these 
well-informed persons, in order to be convinced 
of the excellence of the author's process. 

At Brest, for instance, on the 14th of April, 
1807, the committee named by the maritime 
prefect express themselves as follows : 

" It is demonstrated by every thing just said, 
that all the alimentary substances, in number 
eighteen, embarked in the Stationnaire, Decem- 
ber 12, 1806, and disembarked April 13, 1807, 
and which were examined by a committee for 
that especial purpose, under the presidency of 
a commissary of marine belonging to the hospi- 
tals, underwent no change while they were on 
board, and that they were in the same state at 
the several periods of the embarkation and dis- 
embarkation. 

" It may be added that Mr. Appert's process 
for the preservation of the articles examined, 
has been followed by all the success he had 
promised himself ; and that with improve- 
ment, which he considers as very easy, and 
finding means to diminish the number of ves- 
sels employed, these provisions would offer 
great advantages on board his majesty's and 
other vessels." 

The committee nominated at Bordeaux by 
the prefect of the department, assert, positive* 



99 



<> The detail which we have just given, on the 
objects prepared by Mr. Appert,- will point out 
to you that they were in a state of perfect pre- 
servation ; that the means made use of do not 
depend on the addition of extraneous substan- 
ces, and that these means are founded on a pro- 
cess invented or improved by Mr. Appert, 
which do not destroy the perfume or flavour of 
the sublets submitted to their influence." 

Rear-Admiral Allemand wrote a letter to 
Mr. Appert, of which I subjoin a copy. 

" I communicated your letter, sir, to the 
captains, under my orders, and they tasted the 
day before yesterday the vegetables I purchas- 
ed of you fourteen months ago, one bottle of 
which my mafare -d'hote I had by accident left in 
the store-room. As green peas and beans are 
just beginning to be gathered, the officers ac- 
tually believed your preserved vegetables to be 
fresh, so well had you succeeded : they wish to 
purchase a large quantity of them, as well as 
soup, fruit, and meat in bottles. I shall also 
take a considerable quantity for myself at the 
end of the season. 

" I am so well persuaded, sir, of the infinite 
advantage which would attend the providing a 
quantity of articles for the use of the sick on 
board, that if his excellency, the minister of the 
marine and colonies, should do me the honour 
to ask for my opinion, I shall not hesitate to 
confirm this my opinion, as well for the sake of 
the government and of the sick, as of yourself. 
I shall take the earliest opportunity to speak 



100 



with him on the subject. Accept the assur- 
ance of my high consideration. 

" On board the imperial ship le Majestueux^ 
at anchor off the lie d'Aix. 

(signed) " ALLEMAND." 

« 7 th March, 1807. 5> 

Cofiy of a letter of Vice -Admiral Martin^ mari- 
time prefect, to Mr. Afifiert, at Brest. 

" I have received, sir, your letter of the 27th 
of last April. According to your desire, I have 
addressed to his excellency, the minister of the 
marine and colonies, a report of the examina- 
tion of a variety of provisions prepared accord- 
ing to your process. 

« I shall neglect no opportunity of making 
known a discovery which appears to be as use- 
ful to the state as it is interesting to seamen. I 
have the honour to salute you. 

« The vice-admiral, maritime prefect, 
(signed) « MARTIN." 

" Rochefort y 22d Maij, 1807." 

It is apparent from these reports, which ap- 
pear to be almost the same, though made in 
towns remote from each other, at different pe- 
riods and by different persons, that the process 
of Mr. Appert is as certain as it is useful. It 
affords the means of enjoying throughout the 
empire, during the whole year, and with great 
convenience, the productions which belong 
alone to a part of it, without fearing that they 
may have undergone any change by their hav- 
ing been transported to a great distance, or 



101 



from the remoteness of the season of their 
growth. Merely under this point of view, the 
advantage appears to be great : and it has not 
escaped the notice of the poets and amiable 
writers, who, to amuse themselves, sing the art 
of cookery. Mr. Appert has repeatedly receiv- 
ed from them the most flattering and highly de- 
served praises * # 

The process of this manufacturer is not less 
valuable in the sparing of sugar in the use of 
fruit ; for without the aid of that article, it pre- 
serve's the juice till the moment of its con- 
sumption, when only a small portion needs to 
be added to the juice ; double the quantity 
would have been necessary to preserve the same 
fruit. It may be further added that the flavour 
and aroma of substances are better preserved 
by Mr. Appert's process, than by the decoc- 
tions usually made use of in order to preserve 
them with sugar. This will be considered as a 
very great advantage, when we reflect how pro- 
digious a quantity of this colonial produce is 
every year employed to preserve the different 
kinds of fruit and their juices. The establish- 

* These poUes et litterateurs amiabks qui chantent pour 
s'amuser, are M. de Btrchoux, author of the charming poem 
la Gastronomie, and the authors of the Almanac des bour- 
mends, an annual publication written with infinite wit and 
humour, and which enjoys a higher reputation, and^mo re ex- 
tensive popularity, thai: any other work of taste published m 
France, since the revolution. For an account of both these 
productions the reader is referred to the Literary 1 anorama, 
vol. vii. pp. 661 and 719. The Almanac of Gluttons, if it be 
not the standard of poetic genius in imperial ^ France, is at 
least an indication of the direction which talent is now ta- 
king ; a direction, which the laws and literary police ol the 
Napoleon goveraoient will not fail effectually to maintain, i . 



102 



ment 'of Mr. Appert has not perhaps been duly 
appreciated by rich capitalists, who might have 
given it that desirable extension which it will 
only gradually receive, if the author is aban- 
doned to his own resources. 

The success he has already met with, in- 
creases his zeal, and makes him carry his views 
further. He promises to transmit, unchang- 
ed, the most agreeable productions of our soil 
beyond the line. He purposes to multiply the 
enjoyments of the Indian, the Mexican, and the 
African, as well as of the Laplander, and to 
transport into France from remote regions, an 
infinity of substances which we should desire 
to receive in their natural state. 

The experiments already made on board 
several vessels prove that the sick among a 
crew will be well satisfied with Mr. Appert' s 
preparations, which furnish them with the 
means of procuring, when necessary, meat and 
broth of a good quality, milk, acid fruits, and 
even anti-scorbutic juices ; for Mr. Appert as- 
sures us he is able to preserve these also. 

With respect to the embarkation of meat ne- 
cessary for a whole crew on a long voyage, a 
slight difficulty seems to lie in the requisite 
multiplicity of bottles. But Mr. Appert will, 
without doubt, find means to obviate this incon- 
venience, by the choice of vessels less fragile 
and of a larger size. 

Our opinion of the substances preserved by 
Mr. Appert, and transmitted to our examina- 
tion, is, that they were all of a good quality ; 
that they may be made use of without any in- 



103 



convenience ; and that the Society owes great 
praise to the author for having so far advanced 
the art of preserving vegetable and animal sub- 
stances. We are happy to render this homage 
to the zeal and disinterestedness with which he 
has laboured to attain his end. 

When the relations of commerce shall be ren- 
dered more easy, Mr. Appert will require no- 
thing beyond his own talents and perseverance 
to establish a branch of commerce as useful to 
himself as to his country ; but at the present mo- 
ment his fellow citizens cannot better recom- 
pense his labours than by employing the pro- 
duce of his manufactures. 

Note. — Mr. Appert desires to preserve his 
connexion with the Society, in order to inform 
them of the result of the fresh exertions to 
which he is about to devote himself, on the invi- 
tation of your committee. 



The council concurring in opinion with its 
committee, adopts the present report and its 
conclusions and resolves that it shall be insert- 
ed in the minutes of the Society. 

(signed) Guyton-Morveau, 
Parmentier, 

BoURIAT. 

(A true copy.) 
Math. Montmorency^ Secretary, 



finis. 



Among the books published by D. Longwortti 

are the following : 

THE ADVENTURES OF TELEMA- 
THUS son of Ulysses, from the French oi .te- 
ndon By the celebrated John Hawkesworth, 
LLD corrected and revised by G. Gregory, 
D. D. with a life of the author, and a complete 
index, historical and 

ed with sixteen engravings, m 2 vols. 8vo. ele 
eant— price 8 dollars. There is no other tians- 
lation of Talemachus which may be compared 

* AMERICAN REVOLUTION, particular- 
ly relative to the states of N. and S. Carolina 
and Georgia. By Wm. Moultrie, Esq la e go- 
vernor of S. Carolina, and major-general in the 
revolutionary army of the U. S. 2 vols. 8vo— 

P TeaStIES OF THE BOTANIC GAR- 
DEN, consisting of all the episodes, &c. which 
are amusing to the mere poetic reader,_ divest- 
ed of the philosophical and botanic disquisitions, 
&c? 18mo. elegant-price 1 dollar 37 1-2 cents 
TRIAL OF WHISTELO, a remarkable 
case of bastardy. Reported by Sampson, Sec. 

The wisely curious rack their brain 
To solve this problem, all in vain. 

CASTLE OF OTRANTO, by Horace Wal- 
pole. This is the father of modern romance. 
This volume contains, likewise, Lothaire, by 



Harriet Lee ; and the Painter of Florence, by 
R. Southey — price 1 dollar. 

CONSTITUTION OF THE GRAND 
LODGE of the state of New-York— published 
by authority~37 1-2 cents. 

CORINNA, OR ITALY. By Mad. de Stael 
Holstein — .1 dollar 25 cents. 

CONVERSATION CARDS — 25 cents per 
pack. 

CURSE OF KEHAMA, a new poem. 13 y 
R. Southey, in 2 vols. 18mo — 1 dollar 50 cents 
boards. This poem, in twelve cantos, is an il- 
lustration of the superstitions of the various 
casts of the Hindoo, or Brahman religion. 

CULLEY ON LIVE STOCK, showing the 
mode by which the English have increased 
their cattle to that almost incredible size to 
which they have attained— -37 1-2 cents. 

C CELEBS IN SEARCH OF A WIFE, com- 
prehending observations on domestic habits and 
manners, religion and morals— 1 dollar 25 cts. 

DEBTOR AND CREDITOR'S VADE 
MECUM — 37 1-2 cents. 

DTSRAELPS ROMANCES, containing, 
1. The birth of Romance. 2. Mejnoun and 
Leila, or the Arabian Petrarch and Laura. This 
is the most elegant and tender love-tale ever 
written. 3. Love and humility. 4. The ori- 
gin of the pleasing arts, in two parts. Beside 
the elegance and tasteful language of this work, 
the pleasing information conveyed in the notes 
of the manners, customs and fashions of the 
Arabs, highly recommend it. The description 



also of a Roman triumph, is extremely pic- 
turesque, 1 vol. elegant — 1 dollar 37 1-2 cents. 

DON RAPHAEL, a romance. By G. Walk- 
er, author of Three Spaniards, &c. 2 vols.™ 
2 dollars 25 cents. 

ENCHANTED PLANTS, Fables in verse, 
elegant— 1 dollar 37 1-2 cents. 

ESPRIELLA'S LETTERS FROM ENG- 
LAND, supposed to be written by a Spaniard. 
By R. Southey. This is the second American 
edition, and contains notes by the American edi- 
tor — 2 dollars. 

FABLES OF FLORA, elegant. By Lang- 
horne — 1 dollar 50 cents. 

FATAL REVENGE, a romance, 2 vols,— 
2 dollars 

FOUNDLING OF BELGRADE, romance, 
1 dollar. 

GERTRUDE OF WYOMING, and minor 
poems. By T. Campbell, author of Pleasures 
of Hope, Sec— -62 1-2 cents. 

GONSALVO, or the SPANISH KNIGHT, 
from Florian's works — 1 dollar. 

HOYLE'S GAMES, to which are added 
those of brag and chess; neat pocket vol. — I 
dollar 25 cents 

JUDICIAL OPINIONS. By Mayor Li~ 
vingston, 8vo. — 1 dollar. 

COMMON PRAYER BOOK, large 12mo- 
— 2 dollars. 

Ditto, with elegant prints — 2 dollars 50 cts. 

LOOKING GLASS FOR THE MIND, 
from Berquin — 75 cents. 



LITTLE'S AND MOORE'S POEMS, 2 
vols. 18mo. — 2 dollars. 

LIFE OF FENELON, elegant, 8vo.— 62 1-2 
cents. 

MOORE'S ANACREON, 2 vols. 18mo.~ 
2 dollars. 

WORKS, 4 vols. 18mo. 4 dollars. 

MOCK BIRD, an elegant collection of fash- 
ionable songs — 1 dollar. 

NIGHTINGALE, an elegant selection by 
young ladies — 32mo. — 75 cents. 

PLEASURES AND PAINS OF MEMO- 
RY. By Rogers and Merry, elegant, 12mo.— 
1 dollar 75 cents. 

RAMBLER'S MAGAZINE, vol. 1, with 
a portrait of Mrs. Merry, 18mo. — 1 dollar. 

RAMSAY'S HISTORY OF S. CAROLI- 
NA, from its earliest settlement to 1808, includ- 
ing its civil history, military, ecclesiastical, me- 
dical, legal, and constitutional ; fiscal, agricul- 
tural, commercial ; arts, natural, literary and 
miscellaneous ; virtues, vices, customs, diver- 
sions ; dress, complexion, manners, character, 
fecundity, population end longevity; biogra- 
phical sketches of literary and other distin- 
guished characters, and a statistical account of 
each district, Sec. &c. 2 vols, large 8vo. — 5 dol- 
lars 50 cents. 

RELIGIOUS COURTSHIP, being a his- 
torical discourse on the necessity of marrying 
religious husbands, and wives only, &c. — 75 
cents. 



