Google 



This is a digital copy of a book lhal w;ls preserved for general ions on library shelves before il was carefully scanned by Google as pari of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

Il has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one thai was never subject 

to copy right or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often dillicull lo discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher lo a library and linally lo you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud lo partner with libraries lo digili/e public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order lo keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial panics, including placing Icchnical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make n on -commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request thai you use these files for 
personal, non -commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort lo Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each lile is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use. remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 

countries. Whether a book is slill in copyright varies from country lo country, and we can'l offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through I lie lull lexl of 1 1 us book on I lie web 
al |_-.:. :.-.-:: / / books . qooqle . com/| 







t* 



It , 



a . /<? . 



I ..■ 



V 



AN 

ESSAY 



ON 



DIET AND REGIMEN, 

AS INP'Sl'ENSABLt TO THE 

RECOVERY AND ENJOYMENT 

OF 

« 

JFtrm $caitft, 



ESPECIALLY TO 



THE INDOLENT, STUDIOUS, DELICATE, AND INVALID ; 

WITH APPROPRIATE CASES. 



BY J. M. ADAIR, M. D. 

MEMBER OF THE ROYAL MEDICAL SOCIETY, AND FELLOW 

OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS OF 

EDINBURGH, &C. &C\ &C. 

V 

THE SECOND EDITION. 



. C*radvmn« piaesidia adtewe vt»!etudinis id secun da consultant mi. Csls, 



LONDON: 



PRINTED JTOJl JAMES RIDGWAY, 170, PICCADILLY, 

OPPOIITE BOND -STREET* 



",i 



Kf 



1812. 
Price 5f, 




VT. Flirt, frinter, Old Bailey, London. 



EXPLANATORY PREFACE- 



BEFORE the reader proceeds to the pe- 
rusal of this Essay, it is earnestly requested 
that the Preface be previously read with 
attention, as it will explain certain terms, 
not generally understood, and obviate pe- 
culiar prepossessions and prejudices. 

It is well known that though a Preface 
appears in the front of a book, it is the last 
part of it that is printed ; as it contains a 
review of the subsequent parts of it. 

The outlines of the following Chapters 
were sketched after J had quitted the lucra- 
tive exercise of my profession, (though not 
entirely the gratuitous part of it) ; and had 
* resigned my books to a near relation in the 

^ medical line. 

But I trust that the want of books may 
not render this Essay less useful for my 
purpose ; which was to impress the reader 
with a just sense of the importance of the 
subject, not as applicable in the cure of 



*V PREFACE- 

diseases (for that part of it does not come 
within my plan),* but as indispensably 
necessary to the preservation of health- 
Health, contentment, and a conscience 
void of offence toward God and toward man, 
are the chief of earthly blessings, with 
■which high rank, power, celebrity, and 
wealth are comparatively of small estima- 
tion ; so small indeed, that the apparent 
advantages which might be expected to re- 
sult from them, may, by misapplication, be 
totally perverted or lost. 

Hence it is, that by the wise dispensa- 
tions of Providence, the inequality between 
the different ranks in society are more ap- 
parent than real ; and even in this state of 
our existence, there is more nearly than is 
generally supposed, a compensation through- 
out : hence it is that the virtuous peasant 
is a much more respectable and happy man 
than the profligate pander of an execrable 
tyrant — the Sejanus of a Tiberius. 

* Such "was my reliance on the great advantage of 
regimen, in many cases, equal if not superior to that of 
)nedicine 9 that in all cases of conseqtieuce, I left written 
directions in the sick chamber, that they might be more 
accurately complied with. 



PREFACE. . V 

The truth of this remark will be evident 
to all those who have examined human na- 
ture with an impartial eye ; for whatever 
selfish worldlings may suppose, genuine 
happiness even here, must in a great de- 
gree, if not entirely, depend on our moral 
conduct in any station. 

Strong firm health is the lot of but a 
small part of the members of civilized so- 
cieties ; and this obviously proceeds from 
our erroneous education, by which the 
senses, appetites, and passions, gain a dan- 
gerous predominance over the reason and 
conscience ; because we fear self-denial 
earlier than we know guilt ; and are de- 
lighted with the pleasures of self-gratifica- 
tion before we are conscious of the excel- 
lence of virtue. 

By these injudicious gratifications, health 

often utterly lost, to a degree that no 
l^ealth can re-purchase, or skill and assi- 
duity restore. 

How many instances of this kind have I, 
in the course of fifty years, had occasion to 
deplore ! I now mention the fact as a se- 
jrious and solemn warning to those who still 
possess the blessing. 

b 




VI PREFACE. 



So great is the delicacy of many parts of 
the human body, that it is wonderful it is 
not more subject to disease than it is, from 
causes apparently unavoidable ; and yet on 
a minute inquiry we shall find, that most of 
our bodily evils proceed either from the 
improper management of those who have 
the care of us in the earlier part of our lives; 
or in the more advanced periods, by our 
own imprudence and excesses. These are 
the necessary consequences of our free 
agency, without which, whatever necessita- 
rians alledge, there could be no responsibility 
in another state. 

Beside the indispensable duty of endea- 
vouring to ward off, or of lessening, the 
evils of life, that we may be enabled,' more 
effectually, to discharge the various duties 
Providence has assigned us ; we are also 
powerfully induced to preserve health bj 
our sufferings from the want of it : yet this* 
instinctive principle of self-preservation is 
very often insufficient to resist the influ- 
ence of irregular appetites and passions. 
But if we reason dispassionately on this 
matter (even setting aside the consideration 
of the dictates of revelation) there can be 




PREFACE. Vll 

no doubt but that a temperate use of all our 
enjoyments, must contribute to our happi- 
ness in this life, so far as it secures health 
of body and tranquillity of mind. 

I shall be very sorry if, after all the pains 
taken by a veteran of my standing, this 
treatise does not produce some good effects ; 
and I will venture to assure my readers, 
that it will not proceed from the want of 
efficacy in the means, but want of obedience 
to the precepts. In prescribing regimen, 
though the Physician cannot always bring 
man back to Nature and Reason, he may be 
useful by rendering a breach of Nature's 
laws as little injurious as possible. 

There are, in the very nature of animal 
bodies, the seeds of decay and dissolution, 
by which their existence here is necessarily 
limited : some ill-founded stories have, in- 

«[jeed, been told, of something like a renova- 
}pn of youth ; the great Lord Verulam ima- 
gined that some medicines might have that 
.effect ; and the celebrated Charletan Para- 
<celsus boasted he was possessed of such a 
.preservative from old age, and yet he died 
...*t thirty-four. It is certain, however, that 
premature old age may be retarded by pro- 

b2 



viii PREFACE. 



per regimen. Notwithstanding some fa- 
bulous reports of extreme longevity of post-' 
deluvians, it is probable that Parr, who 
died at one hundred and fifty-two, and 
Jenkins, who lived to one hundred and 
sixty-nine, both Englishmen, were not ex- 
ceeded by any others ; and yet Parr did 
not die of a natural decay, but in conse- 
quence of a change from a spare to a full 
diet. I request the reader will observe that 
this is a striking proof of the benefit of tem- 
perance, and of the destructive effects of 
luxury. 

Independent of the general causes of 
mortality, there are others which may be 
mentioned, as connected with the subject. >a 

1st, A weakly constitution may be de- 
rived from parents, either by hereditary 
diseases in the family, as scrophula,* con- 
sumption, gout, &c. or from irregularities 
or excesses of one or both parents ; or from* 
disease or mismanagement of the nurse. 

• It is here proper to observe, that Velno's Vegetable 
Syrup, prepared by the successor of the late respectable 
Mr. Swainson, of Frith-street, Soho, London, is an un- 
doubted efficacious remedy in all morbid and scorbu* 
tic CASgs,as welt as in another dreadful disease, which at 
one time neemed to ihreaten&e very existence of society. 





PREFACE. IX 

2dly, Particular employments or occu- 
pations, difference of climate, or modes of 
living, dispose to particular diseases ; thus 
Tksot has written on diseases of literary 
men, Ramazini on diseases of mechanics, 
Roupe on those of seamen, Sir John Pringle 
and many others on those of armies, and 
several others, beside myself, on those of 
hot climates. 

These circumstances may, and do, create 
some diversity of regimen ; but still there 
are general rules of precaution, which 
highly merit the attention of every prudent 
person. 

Though this essay is chiefly intended to 
give rules for the preservation of health, 
leaving the regimen under diseases to the me- 
dical men employed ; yet I have, in some 
instances, pointed out simple means of relief* 
hen disease is threatened, until medical 

istance can be obtained. 

I have avoided the use of technical terms 
as much as possible ; and have explained 
such as I have retained. 

Regimen, a Latin term, means, in general, 
regulation or government, and in a medical 



-% PREFACE. 

sense, implies the use of such means as 
tend to preserve or to restore to health, 
without the use of medicines so called ; and 
also the use of such precautions as may 
enable us to avoid, as much as possible, 
such causes as may impair health, or pro- 
duce diseases. 

Regimen may be divided into different 
branches, corresponding to the nature and 
wants of man. He requires food to nourish 
him, drink to quench his thirst, air to 
support his breath, habitation and clothing 
to defend him from the inclemencies of the 
weather, exercise in his various occupations 
and rest and sleep to recruit his wearied 
body. 

There is a vulgar proverb, that a person 
is a fool or a physician at forty. If the 
remark be confined to forming a plan of 
regimen, founded on careful observation of 
what has agreed or disagreed with their 
constitutions, there may be some truth in 
the remark ; but we are, in general, so 
careless in this respect, that few avail them- 
selves of this experience : therefore it iras 
to awaken the reader's attention to this 



.■-* 




fi . 



PHEFACE* XI 

important subject, that I have published 
this Essay. But I aver that it would be a 
very dangerous error, were the proverb 
applied to the knowledge of their own dis- 
eases, or those of others. 

I proceed now to explain some general 
terms, which, to avoid circumlocution, I 
have used in the following little work. 

A Stimulant, is whatever, being received 
into the stomach, or applied outwardly, 
increases the feeling or motion of the parts 
it acts upon ; as high seasoned foods, strong 
drkiks, heat, anger, &c. as they create an 
artificial fever, which may end in a real 
one. 

A Sedative has opposite effects ; as vege- 
tables and water taken into the stomach, 
and cold acting on the body. 

Animal food 9 means in general, butcher's 
meat, fowl and fish ; not that milk, butter, 
eggs, and cheese are not so likewise ; but 
the latter articles do not so much enter 
into the luxurious meals, except butter, and 
that chiefly as a sauce. The vegetables in 
use are well known, and need not be enu- 
merated. 



XII PREFACE. 

Though the following Essay is intended 
for every state and degree of health, it will 
be right to describe such for which it is pe- 
culiarly adapted. 

The Sedentary, includes studious men, in- 
active women of every station, shop-keep- 
ers, clerks, and men who work in a sitting 
posture. 

The Delicate, are persons of weak con- 
stitutions, whose health is unsteady. 

The Invalid, comprehends such as are 
subject to particular diseases, as nervous 
complaints, colics, rheumatism, and gout, 
but who, at certain times, are free from 
these complaints ; whose health, however, 
is never firmly established. Such, there- 
fore, are peculiarly the subjects of steady 
Regimen, if they set a proper value on the 
imperfect state of health, their infirmities, 
and the remains of a broken constitution, 
have left them. * 

I proceed now to make some remarks on 
the several Chapters. 

The first seven Chapters contain all the 
remarks that properly belong to Regi- 
men. The short explanatory cases will, I 



PREFACE. Xlll 

trust, be considered as more beneficial and 
impressive than simple rules. The subse- 
quent Chapters are intended to convey such 
admonitions as may be useful to such as 
set a proper value on the blessing of health. 
By a natural association of ideas between 
those of life, health, disease, and death, 
there is an easy and natural transition, to 
the religious hints occasionally thrown out 
by a man on the verge of the grave, which 
will not, I trust, be considered by some of 
my Readers, as unseasonable or imperti- 
nent ; for, even the Theist must acknowledge 
his responsibility in a future state. All 
I have offered on this head is comprised 
within -a very small compass, and is reduced 
to one point — that is, acquiring a right frame 
of mind (without touching upon the dis- 
tinction of sects or of systems), and steadily 
pursuing such a conduct through life, as 
*t; that we may never be unprepared for our 
hitter end, how sudden and unexpected so- 
ever it may be : let us (says Dr. Johnson), 
so employ our time, as that mortality may not 
be an evil. 

, The moral reflections were so intimately 
connected with those on religion, that they 



XIV PREFACE. 

could not be separated, and especially in 
this age, and at this period, when, deficient 
as we are in our religious zeal, we are still 
more so in our attention, to our moral du- 
ties. 

It is my earnest wish that persons of libe- 
ral education would make themselves ac- 
quainted with their own frame ; and that I 
am not singular in this opinion, I here tran- 
scribe that of a very ingenious professor, and 
one of the most liberal-minded, and best 
men I ever knew, the late Doctor Gregory, 
whose son and successor in the same chair, I 
doubt not, follows his respectable pattern 
passibus acquis. 

" A private gentleman (says Doctor 
Gregory) who has a literary turn, and 
chooses to study medicine as a curious 
and interesting branch of natural his- 
tory, will find the history of his own 
species a more interesting subject, than 
the natural history of spiders and coc- 
kle-shejls. To him such a degree of 
knowledge only is necessary, as may 
enable him to understand medical books 
of merit, and to judge of the compara- 
tive merit of those men to whom he is 



PREFACE. XV 



€6 

66 



66 
66 
66 

66 



" to commit the important charge of his 
own health, and the health of those 
whom he is obliged by the ties of na- 
ture and humanity to take care of. If 

" such men were to claim their right of 
inquiry into a subject that so nearly con- 
cerns them, the good effects of medicine 
would soon appear. They would have 
no separate interest from that of the art ; 
they would detect and expose assuming 
ignorance, and be the judges and patrons 

" of modest merit. 

" Cases very often occur, where an in- 
genious physician sees his patient hast- 
ening to certain death. He knows a 

" remedy that affords a probable prospect 
of saving his life, but it is uncommon, 
not agreeable to the established orthodox 
opinion, and, perhaps dangerous in its 
operation ; here is a dreadful dilemma. 
If he gives the remedy, and the patient 
dies, he is utterly ruined. The dunces, 

" who are the most numerous in every 
profession, are always at war with genius, 
and watch its miscarriages with an anxious 
and malignant eye ; all his prescriptions 
must remain on the apothecary's file, and 



66 



16 
€C 
46 
66 
66 
66 



66 
66 
66 
66 



XVI PREFACE. 

" rise up in judgment against him, and 
" upon any miscarriage, the outcry is raised 
" and propagated with the utmost malig- 
€€ nity. 

" The only tame and believing patients 
" are the men of sense, who generally sub- 
" mit to their Physician, whoever he is, 
" with wonderful faith and patience ; while 
" all the midwives, nurses, and old women, 
" are physicians, and the dignity of the 
€€ most stately of the profession is often 
" obliged to stoop to the folly and caprices 
" of such people, who are sometimes of 
% ' more consequence in making a Physician's 
" fortune than all the merit he can possess/ 3 
This quotation is, I hope, expressive of the 
sentiments of every Physician, who, by 
a regular education, is qualified to estimate 
the importance of medical knowledge, 
and therefore disdains to envelope it in 
mystery (an artifice worthy only of the 
ignorant and selfish) ; and who wishes that 
its principles may be more generally known, 
as the best means of supporting its dig- 
nity as a science, and its great utility as an 
art. 

Chapter I* is the longest and most la- 



PREFACE. XVll 



boured, because our errors in the use of our 
foods and drinks are more frequent and 
greater than in any other article of Regi- 
men ; and yet it may by some be thought 
that I have not been sufficiently minute, or 
had I been much more so, it might by 
others have been deemed unnecessary.— 
Having employed Chapter I. in observa- 
tions on Foods and Drinks, I have in the 
second classed the different kinds of Re- 
gimen, and made some useful remarks : the 
reader will meet with some curious and in- 
structive observations ; and this part of 
Regimen is that in which we are most apt 
to err. I again in Chapter VII. consider 
and apply the subject of Regimen in a ge- 
neral view, as applying to Habit, Age, Sex, 
and Climate. 

But I deem the first section of Chap. III. 
as much the most important to the reader, 
inasmuch, that were there nothing else new 
or useful found in this little tract, I do, on 
long experience, solemnly aver, that it is 
almost invaluable to every person who has 
a due sense, and makes a proper estimate 
of the preservation and improvement of 
health. -i 



XVU1 PREFACE- 

Upon Chapter IV. there do not occur 
to me any other additional remarks, except 
that the females in the lower ranks of life 
are too fond of dress ; a very serious evil. 

Chapter V. contains many useful admo- 
nitions respecting the management of the 
rising generation, originally drawn up, and 
partly borrowed from the work of a German 
Physician, for the benefit of my grand- 
children ; so that the Regimen adapted 
to young persons, I have considered as 
fully as would be necessary, for those who 
should deign to study it with a little more 
attention than they would a Novel or a 
Comedy. 

Chapter VI. Some of my readers may 
be of opinion, that I have been unnecessarily 
explicit in my remarks on the first section ; 
but if there are any so fastidious let them 
avoid the imputation of false delicacy, as 
not compatible with the verum at que decern 
of Horace. 

Having finished my observations on the 
Chapters which relate more immediately 
to Regimen, I shall not extend this Pre- 
face, by offering any preliminary remarks 
on the remaining Chapters ; the intention 



PREFACE. XIX 

will be sufficiently evident to the intelligent 
readers ; and I sincerely believe, and do 
most earnestly hope, that this little Treatise 
will be found to be an useful vade mecum, 
to all who shall deign to give it an attentive 
perusal. 



V 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE 

Introduction. Of the Animal Economy 1 

Chap. I. Of Foods and Drinks 14 

— II. Regimen with respect to the use of Meat and 

Drink 55 

■ 1IL Exercise and Rest 60 

IV: On Clothing 76 

V* Rules for preserving and establishing the 
Health of Young Persons 81 

VI. On Cleanliness 89 

VII. Regimen adapted to different Habits, &c 96 

VIII. On what is termed Catching Cold * 103 

IX. On the Art of Mending ftealth 113 

X. On Fashionable Diseases : 118 

XL On Lady and Gentleman Doctors 126 

XII. Regulation of the Appetites and Passions of 

Young Persons 142 



INTRODUCTION. 



OF THE ANIMAL ECONOMY. 

THE human body is indeed fearfully and 
wonderfully made, and the more per- 
fectly its frame is understood, the more ex- 
alted will our ideas be of the infinite wisdom 
and power of our Almighty Creator. The 
imperfect sketch I shall here give, will ren- 
der the following Essay on Regimen more 
intelligible and satisfactory. 

The functions, or offices of the human 
body, have generally been divided into the 
Vital, Natural, and Animal ; but this divi- 
sion is imperfect, though it may suffice for 
the present purpose. 

Sect. I. The vital function is performed 
partly by the action of the heart, placed 
in the centre of the body, from which are 
sent certain hollow tubes or vessels, which, 
as they proceed to the different parts of the 
body, become gradually smaller, until they 
become invisible to the naked eye : by them 
is conveyed a large quantity of blood, and 
other humours from the heart, for various 
purposes, but chiefly of distributing nou- 
rishment : another set of vessels convey the 



2 ESSAY ON 

humours back again to the heart, and this 
continued progress is termed circulation ; 
being a constant motion, more or less strong 
or weak, quick or slow, of which we judge 
by the motion of the heart, or the pulse at 
the wrist. 

Another part of the vital function is per- 
formed by the Lungs, which, resembling a 
bellows, receive and discharge the surround- 
ing air constantly. These functions are 
termed vital, as absolutely necessary to sus- 
tain life ; for when the heart ceases to move 
or contract, and the lungs to receive air, 
we die. 

Sect. II. The natural function consists of 
several parts. 

1st, Of chewing or grinding the solid 
part of the food ; 2dly, Of swallowing or 
conveying it into the stomach ; 3dly, Of 
digesting or forming it into nourishment ; 
4thly, Conveying it by innumerable canals 
or tubes to the heart, and from thence, in 
the course of the circulation, to every part 
of the body ; 5thly, In discharging into 
different cavities of the body, various liquids, 
as the spittle, the gastric lymph, the bile, 
&c. ; and 6thly, To discharge out of the 
body such parts of it as are become useless, 
and if retained; would be hurtful ; such are 
the bowels, kidneys, but above all, an infi- 
nity of very small vessels, which open into 
the mouth, throat,, and lungs, and on every . 
part of the surface of the body. It will 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 3 

appear hereafter how great is the import- 
ance of perspiration to health, it amounts 
to several pounds in twenty-four hours ; 
and when it becomes sensible, it is termed 
sweat. ■' •■ - 

Wonderful indeed is the mechanism by 
which fluids of very different natures are 
separated from the blood, and discharged 
into different cavities of the body, for ma- 
nifold purposes. 

As the stomach is an organ of very great 
importance, especially in regimen, I shall 
give a slight sketch of it. It is a capacious 
bag, muscular, or capable of contracting 
its dimension, very sensible, and easily 
affected by any thing that acts upon its 
nei*ves, agreeably or disagreeably. Thus* 
a morsel of relishing food, or a spoonful of 
wine, will produce a pleasing feeling, 
whilst a grain of a certain powderwill create 
sickness, vomiting, and great distress. It is 
therefore placed as the sentinel over the 
whole body, to examine, and receive or 
reject what may be wholesome or hurtful j 
hence Van Helmont alleged it was the seat 
of the souL 

It is empty about seven hours after a 
dinner meal ; but some foods remain longer 
than others, and therefore are said to be 
less digestible ; and the sooner a meal is 
digested, the sooner a sense of hunger 
comes on. A Mexican digests so rapidly, 
that he is in danger of fainting if he fasts 

8 2 



4 ESSAY ON 

longer than three hours, and yet many can 
bear to fast for clays. Its sympathy with 
the heart and brain is great, for a glass of 
wine will remove lowness and tainting 
almost instantly. 

Some persons have enormous appetites : 
, the Roman Emperor Maximin ate 20lbs« of 
meat at a meal ; and yet some persons in 
good health eat very little. 

Sect. III. The animal functions, such as 
seeing, hearing, smelling, tasting, feeling, 
and the various motions of the body, which 
are performed by different organs, as the 
brain, the nerves, and a very great number 
of muscles, the chief of which is the heart, 
by whose power millions of motions are 
carried on in the body, whether we are 
awake or asleep. 

By means of the brain and nerves, there 
is a wonderful connexion and correspond- 
ence between the different organs, especi- 
ally the stomach, the heart and the brain, 
which is termed sympathy ; and as this asto- 
nishing faculty is most discernible when 
the body is disordered, I shall explain it 
by a few examples taken from its diseased 
state. Thus, if any food disagrees with t the 
stomach, the head aches, or there is a sense 
offaintness at the heart; head-feche may 
produce faintness at the heart, and sick- 
ness at stomach; gravel in the kidneys 
Qften produces vomiting: innumerable in- 
stances might be given. Sympathy is in-* 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 5 

tended as a warning to us to attend to, 
and remove as soon as possible, what 
might soon destroy health, and even life it- 
self. 

What is health ? Various have been the 
scientific definitions of health, but none 
would be more suitable and intelligible 
than the following. The simplest view of 
it is, our being free from those sympathetic 
feelings of the body, which are disagreeable 
or painful in any degree, and consequently 
make us -disinclined to, or unfit for, per- 
forming with ease and alacrity, those duties 
or offices our Great Creator has allotted us 
to discharge to ourselves or others. 

There are various degrees of what may 
be termed relative health, scarcely what 
may be called absolute ; for at the instant 
"We think we are in the most perfect health, 
there may be a cause secretly acting in some 
part of the body, which may soon disorder 
the whole, and destroy life itself. How 
many are there, who from apparently per- 
fect health sink suddenly into the arms of 
death? au awful admonition to us, to be 
constantly prepared for the great and inevi- 
table event, by anxiously reconciling our- 
selves to that Great Being, in whom we live, 
move, and have our being. 

Let us, therefore, seize the moment of 
health, to discharge this most important of 
all duties; :and not defer it to the hours of 
Sickness and of sorrow,, when, all the faeul- 



(S ESSAY ON 

ties of the soul are languid and deranged, 
and very unfit to begin the great work. 

Beside those circumstances which consti- 
tute general health, each person has what 
may be termed a particular constitution, 
called by physiologists, habit 9 upon which 
curious subject I shall make a few remarks. 

The most careless observer must have 
remarked, that there is a manifest diffe- 
rence betwixt the constitution of a strong 
man and a delicate woman ; between a per- 
son of a florid complexion, and another of 
a pale 6allow aspect; a corpulent person, 
and one that is lean; and it is manifest 
that the same regimen in health cannot be 
suited to these different constitutions, any 
more thaa' the same medical treatment can 
be effectual in curing their diseases. 
. Authors mention a variety of habits, and 
are very minute in the description of them ; 
my plan requires I should be short : I di- 
vide them only into five; the firm, the 
sanguine, the delicate, the phlegmatic, and 
the dry. 

1st, The firm is distinguished by firm 
flesh, and a robust irame. 

2dly, The delicate is marked by a slender 
frame, and quick feelings on slight causes ; 
it is opposite to the former, and may be 
termed the nervous ; in advanced life, they 
sometimes become corpulent. 

3dly, The sanguine is known by a florid 
complexion, especially in early life, and 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 7 

afterwards ends, sometimes in the 2d, somer 
times the 4th habit. 

4thly, The phlegmatic or lax, marked by 
the flesh being loose and spongy, and the 
complexion pale and sallow. 

5thly, The dry or arid, is known by the 
frame of the body being lean and spare, 
and the complexion generally of a dark 
brown. 

In a former treatise, I have entered more 
fully into a consideration of other circum- 
stances respecting the state of the vital, 
natural and animal functions, and the dis- 
eases to which each habit is peculiarly sub- 
ject ; but at the same time remarked, that 
the propensities to these constitutional dis- 
eases may be counteracted by a careful at- 
tention to regimen ; which, with the changes 
that naturally happen at different periods 
of life, make a considerable alteration in 
the habit itself, as will shortly be instanced 
in the case of Dr. Howard. 

The ancients supposed that certain dis- 
positions of mind were connected with the 
different habits, and ttye observation is not 
without foundation. Jlence, too many 
persons are inclined to offer this as an apo- 
logy for their errors of temper and con- 
duct. It is true, that there are a great va- 
riety of dispositions in human nature, many 
of them immoral or vicious ; which, being 
constitutional, are palliated as being irre- 
sistible; but they all proceed from error 



8 ESSAV ON 

of education, or the crime of self-indul- 
gence- Responsibility must always be in 
proportion to the degree of reason given us 
by the Great Author of every good and 
perfect gift. What in a child is only cor- 
rigible by a rod, in a rational adult may be 
a heinous crime. An uncontrolable pro- 
pensity to certain passions is a miserable 
subterfuge, no less abject than impious; 
it is to say, " I am a brute, and not a rea- 
sonable being ; I follow instinct, and re- 
nounce all claim to reason ; my actions 
govern me, and not I my actions." " To 
victory over our prevalent infirmities and 
sins, heaven is promised (says Dr. Clark), 
and on the conquest, we stake not only our 
future,but even our earthly happiness." 

I have (Preface) explained the term sti- 
mulant, and shall now apply it in a point 
of view somewhat different. 

Every organ of the body has its natural 
stimulus, by which it is excited or forced to 
perform its proper office. Thus, the bulk 
and heat of the blood is its natural spur or 
stimulus to the heart, by which it is urged 
to contract upon, and press forward, its 
contents into the large arteries ; air is the 
stimulus of the lungs ; food of the stomach ; 
light of the ^ye ; sound of the ear, odorous 
bodies of the nose ; sapid bodies of the or- 
gans of taste ; and all palpable bodies of 
the organs of feeling, or touch. 

It is worthy of observation, that all the 



DIET AND ftE&IMEN. § 

organs are not equally affected by the same 
stimuli : a glare of light, for instance, does 
not offend the ear, nor strong sounds the 
eye ; a solution of emetic tartar will not 
affect the eye, but create sickness of the 
stomach ; and air and blood will disturb 
this organ, though they are the natural 
stimuli of the lungs and heart. 

Health is often affected, if there is not a, 
proper proportion between the organs and 
their natural stimuli. 

A gluttonous meal distresses the stomach; 
excess of strong drink disorders both the 
heart and the brain ; and air, which a per- 
son of sound lungs can breathe with ease* 
will disturb an asthmatic person. 

The feelings of the organ may bft either 
too great, or depraved ; I shall give a few 
instances. The longings of pregnant wo- 
men are generally absurd, often vexatious, 
I knew a woman in this state, who longed 
for a pair of her neighbours silver candle- 
sticks : their aversions are sometimes equally 
whimsical. All the organs are liable to be 
affected in a peculiar manner. Some can- 
not bear a strong light ; others cannot see 
in a weak light ; this is termed night blind- 
ness ; and some are said to emit from their 
eyes a luminous splendour, so as to be able 
to read in the dark, as it is said of Caius 
Marius, Augustus, and the celebrated Julius 
Scaliger. 

The sense of hearing is sometimes de- 



10 ESSAY ON 

praved. A celebrated German, Professor 
was much distressed by sounds, scarcely au- 
dible by others. Some smells are very of- 
fensive to certain persons, as all perfumes ; 
whilst putrid smells are grateful to others ; 
as is train oil, and rancid fat, to the Green- 
landers* 

Depravity of taste is not unfrequent. — 
The garum, prepared of the putrid livers 
of fishes, was deemed an extraordinary de- 
licacy by the ancient Romans, as is the 
caveer by the Russians* ; the Esquimaux 
prefer putrid fish ; and some natives of 
India cannot relish eggs unless they are 
rotten. 

The sense of feeling has also its singula- 
rities and depravities. The celebrated Ann 
of Austria could not sleep in any sheets 
coarser than those of cambric ; some per- 
sons cannot bear the touch of velvet ; 
others of the downy peach ; and I knew 
the captain of a ship of war, to whom the 
touch of hair was intolerable. 
, -There is also an internal sense of feeling, 
which has some relation to the sense of 
touch, but which is more diversified, as 
every organ seems Jm have a sensation pe- 
culiar to itself* As these sensations are in 
some too great, in others too weak, and in 

* See Professor Pallas's Travels in Russia, four vols, 
with many plates, translated from the German by Mr. 
Btogdon, 28s. in boards. 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 11 

others depraved, this circumstance contri- 
butes very much to form a difference of ha- 
bit, and even in the degrees of health. 

There is but a very thin partition be- 
tween a pleasant and a painful sensation, 
and in many respects they are rather rela- 
tive than positive ; thus a man of callous 
nerves, or who has blunt feelings, is not 
affected by stimuli, which would be painful 
to a delicate woman. 

Firmly believing, as I do, in the immate- 
riality of the soul, contrary to the opinion 
of a very celebrated philosopher* ; I am, 
however, of opinion, that our faculties, 
tempers, and dispositions, are (in a manner 
totally incomprehensible by us in. our finite 
state), intimately connected with our bodily 
habits, and that every fatuity of the mind is 
equally dispensed to both sexes : ' my ex- 
perience has been confirmed by a late inge- 
nious traveller into Africaf, that the fair 
sex far exceed us in benevolence and good- 
ness of heart ; and, from a long and exten- 
sive knowledge of the world, I can assert, 
that the apparent superiority of our sex, in 
other mental accomplishments, proceeds 
entirely from difference of education. 

It would, however, be unfair to form an 

* Dr. Priestley. 

t Vide Travels in Africa, 2 vols, with Maps and 
Plates, large paper, 14s. demy, 10s. boards. Translated 
from the French of Golberry, by Mr. Blagdon. 



1£ ESSAY OK 

estimate on this head, from what we remark 
in societies highly polished. 

But among barbarous nations, where the 
minds of both sexes remained equally ta- 
bula; ras(B 9 we are told by Tacitus, that the 
Ladies often shared the most respectable 
offices of the state : in short, they were 
privy councillors, ministers of state, pro- 
phetesses, priestesses, doctresses, ambas- 
sadresses ; and sometimes led armies to 
battle. 

I am the more inclined to credit this pro- 
found historian, as in my various peregri- 
nations, I thought I discovered strong in- 
dications in individual females, of a genius 
for earfTof these exalted offices ; and as to 
the art ^pf wielding a sceptre, our Queen 
Elizabeth has not been much exceeded by 
any of tier male successors ; not to men- 
tion the Queen of Sheba, Zenobia, Boa- 
dicea, and' the late Thalestris of the 
North. 

I have long been of opinion, that discri- 
mination of natural character (for most of 
the members of polished societies are chil- 
dren of art) seems to. depend chiefly on the 
different states of nervous system. 

If this hypothesis be well founded, it 
will account for many phenomena in hu- 
man nature, and many of the incidents of 
human life : Why, in domestic govern- 
ment, for instance, in one family, a tyran- 
nical blockhead rules with despotic sway 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 13 

over a wife, who has ten times his under-* 
standing and merit ; why in another, a, pe- 
tulant vixen domineers over her passive 
Jerry Sneak, and the grey mare is the bet- 
ter horse ; or why the general, by his ele- 
vation, has deprived the service of a good 
drill serjeant. 









14 ./:■■ BSSAY OK 



*• i 



CHAP. I. 



Of Foods and Drinks. 

AS, from the nature of the human body, 
it is every moment losing a part of its sub- 
stance by one evacuation or another ; so it 
was absolutely necessary, that those wants 
should be supplied by proper materials, 
known under the terms of foods and drinks, 
to distinguish them from medicines, which 
restore health when lost, and poisons which 
destroy it, or life itself. 

Our Almighty and Benevolent Creator, 
hath given to all the animal creation, the 
appetites of hunger and thirst, by which 
they are impelled to seek, and use, the 
means necessary to restore those parts 
which have been lost by the exercise of the 
different functions of the body. 

The desire of preserving life by these 
means, is a wonderful faculty, termed in- 
stinct, which being rarely transgressed by 
the brutal part of the creation, they are 
therefore subject to few diseases : whilst 
man, reasoning man, becoming gradually 
the child of art, and the slave of habit, is 
perpetually violating the laws of instinct, 
and thereby brings upon himself a multi- 
plicity of diseases. 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 15 



Solid Foods. 

In considering this subject, we should 
take into the account, the quantity and 
quality of our foods and drinks. 

Sect. I. Quantity of Foods. — We follow in- 
stinct, if we take food when incited by hun- 
ger; but the vicious refinements of civil 
life are a bar to our following Nature in 
this respect ; we eat when we are not hun- 
gry, and we drink when we are not athirst ; 
and thus we are perpetually laying up the 
causes of future diseases, by neglecting the 
only rule by which our supplies can be pro- 
portioned to our wants. * 

Whatever therefore be the strength of 
constitution, or the degree of health, I 
earnestly recommend the following rules: 

•1st, That all solid foods be well chewed; 
not only that they may be well grinded and 
divided by the teeth, but intimately mixed 
with, and softened by the saliva or spittle, 
which is a great instrument of digestion, 
when joined with the liquor termed lymph, 
which is perpetually poured into the sto- 
mach by myriads of small vessels. 

2dly, It will be a good general rule, to 
leave off before we have a sense of fulness 
in the stomach; because from the heat of 
the stomach, the quantity of humours 



16 ESSAY ON* 

poured into it, and of air discharged frora 
the foods, the bulk of the meat is much 
increased; hence, a very full meal pro- 
duces uneasiness, sickness* vomiting, purg- 
ing, and sometimes even death. 

This caution is necessary to every person, 
but especially so to those who are indolent, 
delicate and invalid ; not only because 
their digestive powers are generally weak, 
but their constitutions are liable to be op- 
pressed by an overload of nourishment. — 
The evils arising from excess in this way 
are much more hurtful to health than is 
commonly suspected ; for so far is a spar- 
ing meal from being injurious, that it is the 
best means of preventing disease- Hence 
the extreme absurdity of pressing persons 
to eat and drink, under the pretext of kind- 
ness or civility. 

Sect. II. Quality of Foods. — Questions 
may here arise on the following points : 

1st, Whether animal or vegetable foods 
are the most digestible, nutritive, and 
wholesome ? 2dly, Of animals, whether 
butchers' meat* fowl or fish, of these young 
or old, fat or lean, fresh or pickled, are 
most eligible as ordinary food ? 3dly, What 
is the best method of dressing them for the 
preservation of health } 

Those who have read the Introduction 
with due attention, will easily perceive how 
difficult it will be to answer such questions, 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 17 

with precision or complete satisfaction, on 
account of difference of habits. 

I shall first make some general remarks ♦ 

Much greater errors are committed by 
improper quality, than excess in quantity 
of food ; a glutton may indeed wear out 
his constitution, even by plain simple feed- 
ing; but he will do it much sooner, and 
more effectually, by what is termed living 
well or luxuriously. 

The human body has a wonderful facul- 
ty of accommodating itself to circumstances 
and customs. This is evident from what 
travellers tell us of the foods of different 
nations. What is familiar and grateful to 
the savage, as I formerly observed, would 
be loathsome to refined and luxurious Eu- 
ropeans; yet from Josephus's account of 
the siege of Jerusalem, and many other 4 
stories of similar distress, we know that 
hunger and thirst will surmount the strong- 
est prejudices and aversions* 

I therefore earnestly recommend to the. 
bon vivant, that reflecting on the effects of 
dire necessity, to which all may be subject, 
he may gradually learn to practice self-de- 
nial in this and other respects ; for nothing 
embitters life, and impairs health, more 
than excessive indulgence of appetites and 
passions. 

By the term digestible is meant what is 
most easily prepared by, and soonest dis- 
charged from, the stomach, if converted 



18 ESSAY ON 

into wholesome nourishment. Here it may 
be observed, that the foods most easily di-* 
gested must be most wholesome ; because 
they not only impose less labour on the sto- 
mach, but on the constitution in general. 

I have repeatedly made experiments on 
inyself. After swallowing a full meal of 
duck or goose, less digestible than any 
other food to me, after it had been in the 
stomach about an hour, I became heavy, 
listless, drowsy, and distressed; I felt myself 
hot and restless, and the pulse feverish. — 
But I felt no such effects, in any consider- 
able degree, from a sparing {peal of 
chicken, an egg, or of vegetables ^Jone.— 
Here it occurs to remark, that had I con- 
tinued day after day a full .meal of rich, 
highly seasoned stimulating food, with 
even a moderate proportion of strong drink, 
these distressing symptoms would have bee* 
renewed, an habitual fever would have been 
produced, the health destroyed, and the 
constitution gradually worn out ; or if a 
real fever had not cut off the thread of life 
suddenly, a slow disease would have had the 
same termination. 

The habitual epicurean and wine-bibber, 
cannot be said to be ever cool ; the remains 
of the yesterday's excess continue to the 
succeeding day, through a disturbed night, 
and his artificial fever, and other distresses, 
ire renewed by the next meal. 

Is this the course of life worthy of a ra- 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 19 

tional and responsible being!— He thereby 
unfits himself for performing the duties of 
his station with vigour, diligence, and prer 
cision (for all ranks have their assigned 
offices in life) ; his head is never clear, his 
understanding always clouded ; he misem- 
ploys much precious time ; and, in fine, he 
is guilty of indirect suicide, by curtailing 
(for I am not a predestinarian) a life 
which, by a different conduct, might have 
been prolonged to a comfortable old age. 

In a former treatise, I formed a table of 
the relative digestibility of foods, but I now 
suspecfctt was more curious than useful ; 
because it was not sufficiently ascertained 
by experiments. 

1st, It is difficult to determine, in gene- 
ral, concerning the relative digestibility of 
foods : animal foods of a solid form, seem 
'to be, in general, detained longer in the 
stomach than vegetables ; and yet so far as 
I recollect (for I have not the books at 
hand), and so far as experiments, chiefly 
jnade on other animals, can be conclusive, 
the contrary has been the case ; for it is 
found that certain vegetables have been 
retained longer, perhaps by a wise provi- 
sion of nature; because the juices of the 
animals being of a nature more similar to 
those of the human body, and therefore 
more easily assimilated with the digestive 
liquors of the stomach, than those of vege- 
tables, are sooner prepared. But after all the 

c2 



20 ESSAY ON 

inferences that have been drawn, appeal 
must be made to our own personal experi- 
ence ; for whatever sits most easily on the 
stomach should be preferred, by those 
whose digestion is not strong. 

From the manifest difference in the struc- 
ture of our stomach and bowels, compared 
with those of graminivorous and granivo- 
~ rous animals, and beasts of prey, who feed 
totally on animal food, it is evident that 
we require a large proportion of vegetables 
at our meals. 

I once dined in company with a school- 
master, who declared he had not fot many 
years tasted vegetables of any kind, even 
bread ; but his apparent state of health did 
not recommend the practice. 

Vegetables may be divided into those 
used in a green, and those in a dry state. 
It will be unnecessary to enumerate them, 
as they are so well known ; I shall there- 
fore make a few remarks on them. 

•It is asserted, and I believe truly, that 
we are indebted to other countries and cli- 
mates for almost all our vegetable food and 
fruits. 

Our various kinds of cabbages, kails, and 
salads, do not seem to be very digestible, 
even when corrected with onions and pep- 
pers ; but they have their use, especially in 
a dinner meal, by increasing its bulk, and 
making less animal food necessary. The 
roots we employ in food, are more easily 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 21 

dissolved in the stomach, are more nou- 
rishing than the former, and are more 
grateful to the stomach. 

Of our indigenous grains, oatmeal, bar- 
ley and rye-meal, notwithstanding the pre- 
judices of the English vulgar, are, as foods, 
more digestible than flour of wheat ; though 
to the stout and laborious this is not an 
objection ; but often the reverse, for obvi- 
ous reasons. Well fermented whited brown 
bread is preferable to white, and biscuit, to 
either. Oatmeal porridge and flummery 
are more eligible as breakfasts and suppers, 
than tea, hot rolls and butter, eggs, cheese, 
and cold meats. In wine countries, grapes, 
■ green or dried, are a frequent breakfast 
with bread. 

I am clearly of opinion, that even the 
strong and laborious, cannot bear two full 
meals of animal food in one day, without 
impairing the health ; much less the seden- 
tary and delicate. 

In this fashionable age, however, when 
the order of Nature is, by too many, almost 
totally inverted, or rather subverted ; to 
persons who dine very late, the supper 
, meal is not very necessary ; but, as there 
are many who are not slaves to fashion, to 
such especially, the delicate and invalid, 
who are contented with a moderate, a 
simple and early dinner, I would advise 
the use of slight and early suppers, because 
a long interval between the dinner of the 



22 ESSAY ON 

former day, and the breakfast of the next, 
may, as I have experienced, weaken the 
tone, and digestive powers of the stomach. 

2dly, Young animals are generally deem- 
ed to be more digestible than old ; but this 
is to be doubted ; because being less stimu- 
lant, and in proportion as they are more 
insipid, they do not promote the work of 
digestion so quickly, by acting on the 
nerves of the stomach less powerfully. 

The animals we use for food are of so 
different a nature, that it is impossible to 
say whether butcher's meat, fowl or fish, 
are more digestible ; but upon the whole, 
I think fish are, because more soluble in the 
stomach. 

I am more decidedly of opinion that fat, 
oils, and butter, digest very slowly ; though 
the lean parts of fat animals are most pala- 
table, nourishing, and digestible ; as the 
fatness of particular parts is a proof that 
the animal was in health. By a strange 
prejudice, most of the Scotch deprive them- 
selves of the use of pork, a rich and whole- 
some food. 

Fresh animal food is in general preferred 
to pickled, salted, or spiced ; and undoubt- 
edly the latter is more stimulating ; and a 
prejudice has been entertained against the 
use of salted meats, on the supposition of 
their being chiefly the cause of that dread- 
ful disease, the sea-scurvy. But though, 
trhen long in the pickle, and when they 



REGIMEN AND DIET. 23 

become rancid or rusty, they may contri- 
bute ; yet the want of green vegetables is a 
more manifest cause ; and we are indebted 
to the celebrated Captain Cook for the most 
important discovery, that the disease may 
be much alleviated if not entirely pre- 
vented, by ventilation, cleanliness, changes 
of apparel, and frequent supplies of fresh 
water. 

Salted, smoked, and spiced meats, are 
certainly deprived of part of their nutritive 
juices, and dissolve less readily in the sto- 
mach ; yet when used sparingly with young 
an^ insipid meats, and a great proportion 
of vegetables, they are not unwholesome ; 
for the English farmers live chiefly on ba- 
con, and that often rusty : and in North 
Britain it has, from time immemorial, been 
a custom with the middling and lower 
ranks, to live chiefly during winter and 
spring on salted - meats, and salted fish ; 
yet I do not find that the health of these 
people is impaired ; because they use a 
great proportion of green vegetables, espe- 
cially potatoes, which have been a great 
acquisition to these kingdoms ; and would 
be more so, if they substituted potatoes for 
barley in their broths, not only as they 
are less expensive, but require less fuel. 

With respect to the relative nutritive 
qualities of foods, were it a part of myplan* 
as it is of the very philanthropic Baron 
Jiumfotdy to prescribe a dietetic regimen for 



24 ESSAY ON 

the poor, I should pay more regard to nu- 
trition than digestibility ; but as my readers 
will not be of that class, nutrition is so far 
from being an object of important consi- 
deration, that many evils proceed from our 
swallowing too much nutrition ; thereby 
throwing into the constitution a greater 
quantity of rich nourishment than it can 
bear without injury to health. 

I proceed to intake some remarks on cer- 
tain articles or food, sauces, spiceries, 
pickles, and preserves. 

Butter is an article of luxury ; and it is 
the opinion of some, that it is a necessary 
sance for fish and vegetables : as to fish, it 
seems to be unnecessary, except those which 
are salt and dried ; with respect to vege- 
tables which are flatulent, a small portion 
of it may be of use. Why it is deemed as 
a necessary sauce for eggs, which are a 
rich food, I cannot account. But my 
strongest objection to the use of butter so 
extravagantly, is in puddings, pies, and 
pastries, which are in truth unnecessary 
additions to a full meal of animal food ; as 
are cheesejellies, preserves and fruits ; and 
which it would be more prudent to reserve 
either for breakfast or supper. Butter has 
also much too large a share in gravies and 
sauces ; a little salt and water with the juice 
of the meat, being more proper. 

Spices and Pickles. In proportion as 
luxury is indulged, health is impaired ; and 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 25 

absurd gratifications cany with them, by 
the wise dispensations of Providence, their 
own punishment. 

These spicy stimulants, by their action 
on the nerves of the nostrils, palate, and 
stomach, deprave them, and incite us to 
desire, and provoke the stomach tdf crave 
more food than it can properly prepare; 
and send off into the constitution more 
nourishment half prepajr fid, than it can pro- 
perly dispense, thereby over-straining the 
springs of life and health. 

I would remark, that if we cannot be 
contented without stimulants of some kind, 
our own stimulating vegetables, as radishes, 
cresses, mustard, onions, &c. are much 
more safe than the foreign spices ; because 
the latter contain much of a very hot, and 
almost caustic oil. 

4th, I shall now discuss the last ques- 
tion, viz. What is the best method of dress- 
ing our foods for the preservation of health? 
The intention of preparing or dressing our 
foods, is to render them more grateful to 
the palate, and more easily convertible into 
nourishment by the stomach; and I know 
no other rule by which its wholesomeness 
is to be determined, than by being con- 
tented with one dish of animal food, and 
that simply dressed. 

Savages eat much of their foods undressed : 
the only dressing the Tajrtar gives his col- 
iop of horse-flesh, is by warming it between 



26 ESSAY ON 

]ais own seat and his horse's back ; and the 
celebrated Mr. Bruce informs us that, in 
Abyssinia, their choice regale at their pub- 
lic entertainments, is a steak cut from a 
live ox. 

But luxury has introduced a refinement 
into cookery which is certainly very inju- 
rious; and this spirit of indulging in good 
gating, pervades all ranks in society. 

The celebrated German minister, Count 
Zinzindors, who was deemed to be a poli- 
tical oracle, retired frequently before din- 
ner into his study, under pretext of con- 
sulting the national welfare; but it was 
accidentally discovered, that he was only 
^consulting his cooks on the choice of a sa- 
voury sauce: and a minister who governed 
this nation about thirty years ago, was 
alleged to be more conversant with the art 
•of preparing a ham gravy, than of ma^ 
-naging the treasury. 

It is certain that cookeiy renders our 
foods more palatable and digestible ; but 
it is equally true that, for reasons already 
assigned, the more simple it is, the more 
conducive it is to health. 

But the greatest evil, not merely to the 
individual, but to the community is the 
multiplicity of dishes luxury has brought 
to the tables of the great, the wealthy, and 
:the ostentatious (who are often neither 
great nor wealthy), so that a great part of 
their superfluities is consumedfey their ser* 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 27 

vants, and the humble dependents of their 
servants ; who being thus pampered above 
their natural rank, when they become house- 
keepers themselves, find they have acquired 
appetites and habits which are not well 
suited to their new and penurious state of 
life. Through this channel, partly , a luxu- 
rious spirit is gradually extended to the 
lowest ranks ; whilst the rage of imitating 
their neighbours, diffuses it among those of 
the middling station ; and thus the pesti- 
lential taint becomes universal. Whatever 
therefore, certain tribe of politicians, may 
allege, the high price of provisions, and 
of other articles of private expenditure, are 
more owing to the cause now ascribed, 
than to the supposed increase of national 
wealth ; of which, however, being a dan- 
gerous malady, our skilful ministers 'are 
soon likely to cure us, and happily reduce 
us to the parsimony, and the virtuous sim- 
plicity of our original ancestors. 

§ II. Liquid Foods. — Among the liquid 
foods, we may reckon soups, broths, milk, 
cream, whey, chocolate, coffee, and tea. 
liquid foods, being in some degree already 
prepared, are more easily converted in to 
nourishment ; yet such is the capricious 
state of the stomach in many weak persons, 
that meat roasted or broiled, is more easily 
digested by them than the liquid /bods. 
This seems to be owing to the perverted 
state of the nerves of the mouth and sto- 



28 ESSAY ON 

mach ; and hence it is, that what is most 
grateful to the palate, sits most easily on the 
stomach, and is more completely converted 
into good nourishment ; and it is for this 
reason that medical men are often obliged 
to grant to their patients, not what is best 
suited to the nature of their disease, but 
what is most agreeable to their vitiated 
appetites. 

In a future chapter, I shall point out the 
great benefit of simplicity of diet to young 
persons, and indeed through life, as the 
best means of preventing a luxurious appe- 
tite, which is a real misfortune to the indi- 
vidual, and a source of much calamity to 
sociejty. 

Baron Rumford, in his excellent Essay on 
the Cheapest Method of Feeding the Poor, 
has* established a useful fact : viz. That a 
person may lead a laborious life, and enjoy 
high health and full strength, on vegetable 
food alone, when properly prepared. His 
third Essay ought to be read by eveiy class-: 
by the wealthy, as it will point out cheap 
means of extending their charity to their 
poor neighbours ; to the middling and 
lower ranks, to enable them to lessen their 
household expences, and to sustain the 
heavy burdens incurred by our ruinous sys- 
tem of warfare. I have always been of 
opinion that the British, the English espe- 
cially,' consume, or rather waste, much too 
great a proportion of animal food, by which 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 29 

health is impaired, and life shortened. By 
a proper parsimony, in this respect, they 
may enlarge their charities, and as the ce- 
lebrated Sterne advises, " throw their cho- 
4 'lies and gouts to the poor." 

The Baron has confirmed me in several 
opinions I have long held ; 1st, That water 
is not a mere vehicle for our foods, but 
that it has a wonderful power of assimilat- 
ing and applying the nutritive parts of ani- 
mals and vegetables. 2dly, That the act 
of chewing well, and slowly, the solid part 
of a meal, contributes much to make it 
more nourishing. 3dly, That foods are 
more digestible and nutritive in proportion 
as they are palatable ; but there is a dis- 
tinction to be made by the author of an 
Essay on Regimen, which could not come 
.under the consideration of the respectable 
Baron, as an economical philosopher, viz. 
Whereas the simple ingredients which en- 
tered his messes, were chiefly or totally ve- 
getable, and limited in their quantity ; they 
could not have the bad effects of a pound 
of solid, highly dressed, animal food ; which 
affording a large proportion of rich and 
stimulating nourishment, and which, ac- 
cording to the vulgar adage, sticking longer 
to the ribs, puts the constitution to greater 
and more permanent exertions before it 
could be disposed of as nourishment ; and 
thereby hurt the health, by straining the 



30 ESSAY ON 

springs of life : repletion is the bane of the 
epicurean and the glutton. 

The Baron, in his chapter on the P/ea- 
sure of Eating, justly observes, that if a 
glutton can be made to gormandize during 
two hours on two ounces of meat, it is 
certainly better for his health, than if he 
gave himself indigestion by eating two 
pounds within the same time. The grati- 
fications of life, if moderate, are not to be 
rejected, but enjoyed with gratitude ; but 
as I am not by constitution a glutton, or 
by habit an epicure, I have ever considered 
eating as the lowest of the sensual gratifica- 
tions ; but my greatest objection to the in- 
dulgence of it is, that, from my observation, 
it seems more perhaps than any other of 
the sensual appetites, to increase the reluc- 
tance of parting with life ; a dreadful con- 
sideration at the approach of death. 

A salmon's belly, Helluo,wasthy fate; 
The Doctor call'd, declar'd all help too late ; 
" Mercy J, criea Helluo, mercy on my soul ! 
" Is there no hope ? alas, then bring the joul !" 

PO*E* 

Were our existence to be confined to this 
life alone (and it is with extreme pain I 
remark, that the bulk, even of the Christian 
world, live as if there were no other), to 
eat, drink, and indulge ourselves in the 
gratification v of eveiy appetite, would be the 
great aim of mankind, a few musty philo- 

3 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 31 

sophers excepted, with whose intellectual 
investigations, dissipation, and jollity would 
hot so well accord. But as we are assured 
upon the best authority, and it is our inte- 
rest firmly to believe, that there is a future 
and eternal state of existence, by a reasbn- 
able and responsible being, it should be 
considered as our indispensible duties so to 
attach ourselves to society in this transitory 
state, as that we may quit it with so little 
regret, as to render the prospect of the fu- 
ture at least comfortable, if not delightful. 
" Many (says Dr. Young) derive pleasure 
from providing for many more days than 
they shall ever see ; but not for those that 
shall never end." 

So precarious is this life in every stage of 
it, that a wise man will begin early to 
withdraw himself so far from his connec- 
tion with it, as to place himself in a sort of 
middle state between this and the next,and 
not defer it to almost the last hour ; for he 
cannot assure himself that he shall not be 
one of the 50,000* who shall not awake 
to see the light of another day. 

I have already remarked that nature, or 
the constitution, is endowed with certain 
instinctive powers or faculties, by which it 
not only suggests the best means of pre- 
serving health, and even of rectifying small 
deviations or errors ; but also when these 

* A calculation has been made, which suppose^ 
$0,000 persons die every twenty-four hoars. 



32 ESSAY ON 

errors become diseases, assist the physician, 
by exciting certain desires, or cravings, for 
particular articles of food or drink, of 
which, on general principles, he may not 
approve; but which experience shews to 
be beneficial : this more frequently happens 
in fevers, and in those diseases which are 
termed nervous. 

Of the liquid foods mentioned above, 
some sit better on particular stomachs ; and 
even milk, which is the best of them, some- 
times disagrees. It is an excellent food for 
breakfast and supper, with well fermented 
bread : whey to the invalid, is often pre^ 
ferable, being free from curd: cream is 
only liquid butter. 

Broths and soups seem to have been in- 
vented, partly to make less solid meats ne- 
cessary ; partly as a fitter form of nourish- 
ment for the sick : as to jellies made of the 
gluey parts of animals, there is not a more 
improper food for weak stomachs, as being 
difficult of digestion ; whereas, jellies made 
of fruits, are inoffensive, and grateful to the 
stomach. Strong chocolate is heavy and 
clogging, but when weak, it is much pre- 
ferable to coffee or tea, which afford no 
nourishment. 

Tea, I decidedly pronounce to be a 
noxious article of food ; for from long ex- 
perience and strict observation, I have 
found that the frequent and immoderate 
use of strong tea, gradually weakens and 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 3$" 

Undermines the constitution, and thereby 
becomes a slow poison ; and the intro- 
duction of it into the British dominions 
(where more of this baneful weed is ex- 
pended, than in all Europe beside*) was 
a real calamity ; for in proportion as its 
use has become more general and frequent, 
I have just reason to believe that many dis- 
eases, especially low fevers, hysterical and 
hypochondriacal, paralytic and dropsical 
diseases are much more frequent than in 
former periods. 

It may be alledged that the increase of 
certain diseases since its use has been intro- 
duced in this kingdom, may have been 
owing to other causes. I answer, that 
though those diseases certainly existed long 
before, yet their manifest increase, since 
the introduction of tea, affords a strong 
presumption, amounting nearly to a proof, 
that tea, green especially, has, at least con- 
tributed ; because many who have used this 
noxious slop most freely, have experienced 
uneasy sensations in the stomach, and other, 

* In such of the countries of Europe as the author has 
visited (Holland excepted) this fashionable beverage is 
very little used .* but still far less than in Britain. 

Tea-drinking is one of the manifold evils fashion has 
introduced into this kingdom. How careful ought per- 
sons of superior rank to be of setting bad examples ! It 
was from them the custom of tea-drinking descended fro 
others ; so that at this day, there is not a parish pauper* 
or a straggling beggar, or gipsey, who do not regale them- 
lelves with it twice a day. 

D 



34 ESSAY ON 

symptoms of hysterical and hypochondria- 
cal affection, which have been mitigated or 
removed, by lessening the quantity of it, 
or abstaining from it altogether. 
• But the use of it by the lower rank, 
which constitutes the bulk and strength 
of the nation, is peculiarly exceptionable, 
merely on the principle of economy ; be- 
cause of the waste of time, fuel, and 
money, in the purchase of the ingredients, 
and in preparing and using this unprofita^ 
ble, because unnutritive beverage. 

I have -met with a calculation, which 
estimates that the expence of tea and sugar 
twice a day, at two-pence halfpenny each 
* time, amounting to £j 12s. per annum, 
yould supply the article of bread to four 
millions of persons. But this veiy mode-^ 
rate estimate, which does not include the 
waste of fuel and of precious time, evidently 
shews, what an enormous disproportion the 
amount of this single article of expenditure 
must bear to the scanty earnings of a la- 
bouring man. 

We are told, that for some years after 
this injurious trade commenced, the import 
of tea did not annually exceed 50,000lb. and 
now amounts nearly to twenty millions. 
May we not, therefore, account, in a great 
measure, for the astonishing increase of the 
poor-rates, by the universal use of tea, and 
spirituous liquors, among the lower rank, 
by which so great a part of their small in- 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 35 

come is expended, and their bodies are de- 
bilitated, and health impaired. 

Having, from my youth, been peculiarly 
solicitous to conciliate the good opinion 
and regard of the other sex, I should be 
veiy sorry to forfeit either, by my severe 
strictures on this foreign weed: but the 
love of truth, and a sense of duty, required 
it. I shall now endeavour to compromise 
the matter with my veiy respectable sisters, 
who by their rank are exempted from the 
pressures of penury. 

To such, therefore, as are wedded to this 
bewitching beverage, I recommend their 
abstaining from all green teas, gradually 
lessening the strength of the bohea, by add- 
ing more cream and sugar. If they can- 
not, at length totally abstain, they may at 
least lessen its bad effects. 

Herb, or medicated, teas, were formerly 
puffed off by advertisements ; but if they 
have any efficacy at all, it must be in- 
jurious; for a constant use of a medicine 
must always be an abuse of it, by habi- 
tuating the stomach and constitution to 
that stimulus which ought only to be em- 
ployed for the cure of disease : hence CW- 
sus y s admonition in my motto. 

I lately was informed by a gentlewoman, 
on whose veracity I could entirely rely, of 
the following fact. That many years be- 
fore, having clandestinely drank a large 
quantity of strong tea (of which she then 

d 2 



36 ESSAY ON 

was, and is, to this hour, immoderately 
fond), it produced all the effects of a large, 
dose of opium, or of what she had re- 
marked of persons intoxicated*. I have 
said, that drams are a slow poison, when 
used immoderately ; and though what are 
termed virulent, or mortal poisons, de- 
stroy more certainly and suddenly ; yet I 
firmly believe, that many more lives are 
shortened eventually by excess in the use 
of tea and spirituous liquors : I will just 
add, not merely as a ridiculous, but as a 
lamentable circumstance, that the lowest 
and most indigent among us cannot exist 
in comfort, without having the materials 
for two orthree repasts from both Indies. 

In the west of England a poor widow 
woman, a slave to tea-drinking, with a 
number of young children, fed 'herself, ?tnd 
them almost with tea and a little bre^d^ qii. 
pretence of economy, and thereby reduced 
the whole family to a deplorable state of 
weakness ; and yet a sufficiency of bread 
and milk, or cheese and small beer, and 

* Professor Gregory (who perused this tract) remarked, 
that the German and Dutch physicians complain as much 
of the bad effects of coffee on their countrymen, as we 
do of tea'; and the Doctor himself avers, that he has 
sometimes experienced that coffee has been more injurious 
to bis stomach than tea. I would here observe, that I 
never had a favourable opinion of coffee; but only con* 
ceived that it was less injurious than tea. My ingenious 
friend, Dr. Patterson, of Ayr, tells me, he has frequently 
observed, that coffee becomes strongly acid in stomach* 
whose digestive powers are weak. 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 37 : 

even a bit of coarse meat, would haye 
been little more expensive. There is rea- 
son to believe that the celebrated Dr. John- 
son, embittered and shortened a valuable ' 
life, by the exorbitant use of tea: yet the 
Doctor was highly offended with another 
author, who justly reprobated the use of 
tea. I have seen this literary cololsus swal- 
low a large quantity of it. As a proof how 
much tea has increased some diseases, we 
find that between the years 1629 and 1637, 
there died of Dropsy one in twenty-one ; 
and between 1734 and 1742, one in four- 
teen; between 1629 and 1637, of Palsy, 
one in three hundred and seven, and be- 
tween 1734 and 1742, one in two hundred 
and seventy-eight. But as the expenditure 
of tea was not so great fifty-six years ago 
by ohe half part as it is now, it may be 
truly estimated that the proportion of 
both those diseases is in the same degree 
increased ; a lamentable consideration ! 

To those who live well, that is, who eat 
largely of high seasoned meats, and are 
liberal in the use of strong drinks, it is 
certainly less injurious; but even to them 
the green teas especially are hurtful, there 
being every reason to believe that they have 
their colour from verdigrease, which is a 
rank poison ; and it is well known, that 
the leaves of the green tea shrub are of so 
poisonously acrid a nature, as to blister and 
ulcerate the hands of the persons who ar* 



38 ESSAY ON 

employed in preparing them for sale : what 
then must be the noxious effects of the daily 
use of this herb on the delicate coats of 
the stomach ? But whether the allegation 
of its being dyed with verdigrease, be 
well or ill-founded, we know there is a class 
of vegetable poisons, and there is eveiy rea- 
son to believe that every kind of tea is of 
this class. 

The bad effects of tea are lessened by 
sugar and cream, but many use it without 
either. Sugar, which fashion has intro- 
duced, is a wholesome and palateable addi- 
tion to foods, and agrees better with many 
stomachs tjran honey : it is to be remarked, 
that sugar makes a considerable portion of 
the nourishing part of vegetables ; and that 
all the grains and fruits which produce the 
various wines, beers, cyders, and perry, are 
jnore or less rich and intoxicating, accord- 
ing to the quantity of saccharine juice they 
contain, 

I could enter largely into the impropriety 
of importing this article of commerce on 
the principle of political economy, but it 
would not be proper here. 

It may be asked, what can be substituted 
for this favourite slop? It may be an- 
swered, that for breakfast, milk, whey, 
thin chocolate, weak broth, or portable 
soup, would be far preferable ; and as for 
the afternoon indulgence, coffee, water 
^vith sugar and milk, or lemonade, might 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 39 

be substituted by the wealthy and idle ; but 
to those of inferior ranks, who subsist by 
labour and industry, the time now wasted 
over the tea-table might be more usefully 
employed. 

Spirituous Liquors. — Very far am I from 
insinuating that any of my readers are ad*- 
dieted to the abuse of them ; but preven- 
tion is better than cure ; and I have known 
too many worthy persons of both sexes 
who have fallen into this horrible practice, 
not to consider it as my indispensable duty, 
to warn and strenuously remonstrate against 
the indulgence, and to advise that, so far 
as their influence extends, they will dis- 
countenance it. 

Raw-meats are less digestible than 
dressed — boiled than roasted — old than 
young animals* — meats and fowls than 
fish — vegetables than any kinds of animal 
food — salads, cabbages, and parsnips, than 
turnip, potatoes and asparagus : fat, but- 
ter, and all oily substances, were found of 
very slow digestion. 

* In other experiments, the results were different, and 
confirmed from my own feelings, probably owing to the 
old being more stimulant, and by acting more forcibly ot* 
the nerves of the stomach, promoted its re-action on its 
contents; and this may be a wise provision of nature, the 
juices of old animals approaching nearer to those of our 
body, in their nature, are sooner digested than the juices 
of younger animals, and of vegetables, which are longer 
retained, -that they may more completely acquire the ani- 
mal nature, before tbey are discharged from the stomach. 



40 ESSAY ON 

A Monsieur Gosse, who had a faculty . of 
discharging his stomach at will, gives f fie 
results of his experiments, which, may* Be 
more satisfactory, and may afford a neces- 
sary caution, especially to those who suffer 
by indigestion. He divided the articles intd 

three classes. 

Class I. Substances not digestible, or (it 
least not within the usual time. 

I. The tendinous, or stringy parts of beef, 
veal j pork, poultry y and scate. 

II. The bones. 

III. The oily and fatty parts of these 
animals. 

IV. The white of an egg hardened by heat, 

OF VEGETABLE SUBSTANCES. 

i 

V. Oils of almond, olive, &c. seeds and 
stones of fruits, almonds, pistacchio nuts 
and walnuts, dried grapes and skins of fresh 
grapes, the skin or rinds of pease, wheat* 
barley, apples, pears, oranges, and lemons, 
and the conserves of oranges and citrons ; 
the stones of cherries and plumbs. 

Class II. Substances difficult of digestion , 
but of which he digested. 

ANIMAL SUBSTANCES, viz. 

I. Por^dressed in all the different methods. 



DIET AND REGIMEN, 41 

II. Black puddings. 

III. Yolk of eggs roasted. 

IV. Fritters of eggs. 

V. Fried eggs. 

VEGETABLES, 

VI . Sallads of raw herbs, especially with oil • 

VII. White cabbage. 

VIII. Boiled and raw onions and leeks* 

IX. Pulp of fruit with seeds. 

X. Figs fresh and dry. 

XI. Warm bread. 

XII. Sweet pastry, which occasioned an 
intolerable acidity. 

Class III. Substdnces easy of digestion. 

I. Veal, lamb, and poultry, especially 
yoxmgjresh eggs not hardened by boiling. 

II. Cows milk, it curdled about an hour 
and an half after being in the stomach ; 
perch boiled with a little salt and parsley ; 
but when fried, or when seasoned with 
wine or oil it is less easy of digestion. 

OF VEGETABLES. 

III. Spinach, celery, tops of asparagus. 

IV. Bottom of artichokes. 

V. Boiled pulps of fruits, seasoned with 
sugar. 

VI. The meals of wheat, barley, rice, 
maize, pease and beans. 



42 ESSAY ON 

VII. Different sorts ofwheaten bread, 
without butter, the second day of baking. 
The crust more digestible than the crumb- 
Brown wheaten bread less digestible in 
proportion to the quantity of bran. Salted 
bread more digestible, than that baked 
without salt. 

VIII. Turnips, potatoes, and parsnips, 
when not too old. 

SUBSTANCES WHICH FACILITATED MR. 

gosse's DIGESTION. 

J. Common salt and spices. 

II. Mustard, horse-radish, radish and 
cresses. 

III. Capers, 

IV. Old cheese. 

V. Sugar. 

VI. Various bitters. 

VII. Wine and spirituous liquors iix small 
quantities. 

SUBSTANCES WHICH RETARDED HIS DIGES- 
TION, viz. 

I. Water, particularly when hot, and in 
large quantities. It occasions the food to 
pass too soon out of the stomach ; without 
being properly dissolved. 

II. All acids and astringents. 

III. Twenty-four grains of Peruvian 
bark, taken half an hour after dinner, 
Stopped digestion. 



DIET AND REGIMEN, 43 

IV. Mercury and antimony. 

V. Employment after a meal, and lean- 
ing with the breast against a table. 

I shall now offer a few remarks on the 
preceding experiments. 

Class I. Mr. Gosse does not imply that 
these articles cannot be subdued by the sto- 
mach ; but why impose an unnecessary task 
on so important an organ? 

Class II. Had he rejected his meal two 
or three hours later, he would have found a 
very great part, if not the whole digested: 
the articles are best fitted for strong labo- 
rious persons. 

Class III. These articles are most eli- 
gible food for the delicate and invalid: 
* what he says of the perch, is equally ap- 
plicable to the whiting, flounder, haddock, 
and some other white fish ; but not to the 
salmon, herring, and sturgeon, &c. It 
proves also that butter or oil are unneces- 
sary additions, especially to the rich oily 
fishes." It- was not the frying the perch that 
made it less digestible, but the sauce. 

With respect>to the digestibility of sugar, 
I have always found it to be very much so : 
it is, as I have long known, very whole- 
some and nutritive; and Professor New- 
man alleged it was the principal matter of 
nourishment. Mr. Gosse did not try oat- 
meal, or he would have found it more diges- 
tible than wheat flour. 

As to the substances which promoted 



44 ESSAY ON 

Mr. Gosse's digestion, I think foreign 
spices had better be omitted ; and I protest 
strenuously against spirits in any quantity 
or form after a meal, for reasons already 
assigned. Quiet of body and mind for 
two hours after a dinner-meal is certainly 
useful to the studious, the delicate, and in- 
valid; and yet labouring persons go im- 
mediately to work after dinner, Man is a 
creature of habit, and therefore we ought to 
be exceeding careful * not to acquire incon- 
venient or immoral habits either of body or 
mind, for it is very difficult to eradicate 
them. 

§ II. Drinks. — The most natural and 
most wholesome drinks are those which are 
least stimulant ; because they do not put 
the powers of the constitution upon extra- 
ordinary exertions, which, in the event, al- 
ways weaken it. 

Water is the most natural drink of man 
and beast, and when man is not perverted 
by bad habits, is, in general, the most 
conducive to health, from the cradle to the 
grave. Rain-water is the most wholesome ; t 
but as that cannot always be obtained, that 
from springs and wells, which most rea- 
dily breaks soap, and boils dried pease, is 
deemed the best. Experiments shew that 
ice or snow dissolved, make a pure water. 
It is alleged by some, that it is better for 
having been previously boiled, and set to 
cool ; and I know an eminent physician in 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 45 

London, who has for many years drank i 
distilled water, believing it was thereby •'"■ 
freed from all Imprfcper contents. - 

Strong (kinks are stimufanf 6r heating, 
and, in various degrees, opposite to water, 
which is sedative, or cooling ; and yet 
there are none of these, except the strongest 
spirits which do not contain water.— 
Without entering deeply into chymical 
reasoning, it will be sufficient to say, that 
the quality by which they enliven or in- 
toxicate, is produced by fermentation. — 
This fermentation, as already observed, is 
promoted or rather produced, by a sugar, 
or saccharine matter contained,moreorless, 
in all grains, fruits, and other vegetables, 
which produce a fermenting, intoxicating 
liquid. 

The ancients termed all these fermented 
liquors wines ; hence the term barley wine, 
applied to ale*. Thus we know that the 
vile and noxious spirits termed whiskey, or 
malt spirits, and gin, are produced from 
grain of different kinds, brandy from 
wine or cider, and rum from the juice of 
the sugar-cane, or from molasses. It i& 
very well known, that if the fermenting li- 
quor is not rich enough of the sugar, or 
the fermentation is not carried on proper- 

* If families would be prevailed on to adopt Mr. Child's 
method of brewing ale and porter, they would not only: 
have their beer at about half the price commonly paid 
for it, but the best that can bflL brewed. Tlliyi*. Treatise 
costs only one shilling ! 



46 ESSAY ON 

ly, the liquor becomes vinegar, and will not 
afford any spirit in the still. All the 
fermented liquors used in Europe, beside 
many others in other parts of the world, 
contain alcohol, or spirit, otherwise they 
could not produce it by distillation. 

Without mentioning the various kinds of 
wines, beers, ciders, &c. used among us, it 
will be sufficient to say, that as they are all 
stimulant, in proportion to the quantity of 
spirit they contain, so they are more or less 
•.grateful to the stomach* as they are more 
er less perfectly fermented. 

A very absurd idea obtained in the last 
century , ajid . is not, perhaps yet entirely 
given up, that home made wines, as those 
made from gooseberry, currant, orange, &c. 
are not wholesome ; but if properly fer- 
mented, and kept to a sufficient age, they 
are as much so as any foreign wines, though 
not so palatable. The natural historian' 
Pliny, mentions 195 kinds of fermented 
drinks known to the ancients; and some 
years ago a veiy elaborate Treatise was 
published on the subject; but my plan re- 
quires that I should be brief } nor can I 
comprehend the utility of being otherwise ; 
for wine-drinkers would still be inclined to 
gratify their own tastes in their choice, 
rather than obey any rule, if such could be 
given. 

Of the foreign wines there is a great va- 
nety, white and red, and of these agaui* 



DIET,4ND REGIMEN. 47 

sweet, and ascescent, austere, brisk, weak, 
audi strong : in all, the intoxicating quality 
is chiefly owing to. the addition of brandy 
to keep them from becoming sour. 

Upon the whole, however, though the 
wealthy indulge in the use of foreign wines, 
and thereby incur the painful evils of gout, 
gravel," and other complaints; the wines, 
beers, and ciders, which are the natural 
produce of this climate, are much, more 
"wholesome. 

I am of opinion that foreign wines are 
not $o wholesome as our own fermented 
drinks. 1st, Aft they are subject to be adul- 
terated by various articles, and sometime* 
the calces of lead, which is an actual poi- 
son. 2diy, Though all fermenting liquors 
produce an inflammable spirit, yet their na- 
tive spirit being thoroughly mixed in the 
process of fermentation, is well covered and 
incorporated with the rest of the liquor ; 
whereas the spirit added after fermentation, 
before or after importation, to give the 
wines a body, as it is termed, never mixes 
so intimately with the other ingredients, 
and is therefore more intoxicating and un- 
wholesome. 

Spirits of any kind, even when mixed 
with a large proportion of water, under 
the vulgar term of grog, are not so safe as 
wine, cider, or beer. A very strongman 
complained to me that his hand shook. I 
found he drank grog instead of punch, ajid 



» .'. 



4d ESSAY ON 

had insensibly increased the quantity of 
rum : he returned to his weak punch, and 
his hand became steady. 

No strong drink ought to be used before 
dinner : and it ought to be used very mo- 
derately after supper : otherwise disturbed 
rest, and a feverish habit/ will soon wear out 
the springs of life, and destroy healtli. 

It has already been remarked, that water 
is the most natural drink of man ; some 
persons in this kingdom have never used 
any other ; and such as I have known, 
have enjoyed a more regular appetite, and 
firmer health, by persevering in the use of it 
solely. 

Yet Providence seems to have intended 
the moderate use of strong drinks for the 
comfort of man ; and the antediluvians seem 
to have known the use of fermented drinks, 
as we read of Noah's excess. 

Spirituous liquors are of later invention, 
and happy had it been for the human race 
had they never been known. It is true 
that the fermented drinks may be used in- 
temperately, but I never knew an habitual 
sot who was not at length a dram-drinker ; 
and it is my duty most seriously to warn 
the reader against the beastly and destruc- 
tive practice. 

To prevent the danger of its becoming a' 
habit, the safest way is to avoid tasting- 
spirits alone, under any pretext, consider- 
ing spirits of any kind, even the foreign 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 49 

liquors, as real poison. The common 
pretence for using them is to remote the 
disagreeable feelings after a meal, especial- 
ly ot certain foods ; but such foods, if any 
such there be, should be entirely avoided, or 
used more sparingly ; but drams are used 
more frequently after a glutinous or exces- 
sive meal ; because they certainly tend to 
lessen the supposed fermentation in the 
stomach during the digestion, which may 
be cured by eating less. 

There is something dangerously bewitch- 
ing in the use of spirituous liquors ; they 
soon become palatable, and suddenly exhi- 
larate and raise the spirits ; and so grateful 
are the feelings they produce in the sto- 
mach, brain, and nervous system, that the 
temptation to repeat the poisonous dose 
becortles irresistible. Medical men have 
too many opportunities of knowing how 
frequent this practice is become, even when 
least suspected ; and what is most deplo- 
rable, among the most respectable and va- 
luable characters, especially literary men : 
I shall give an instance of each sex. 

A lady of rank, whose domestic happi- 
ness Was often disturbed, was suddenly 
seized, &nd her medical man being ab- 
sent, another was called from the tavern 
id a state df intoxication. By the time the 
fibctor arrived the patient's delirious fit had 
subsided, and the Doctor, conscious of his 
oWtt improper situation, exclaimed in a 

E 



50 ESSAY Off. 

loud whisper, " Drunk, by !" the 

patient conceiving he had discovered her 
foible? instead of his own, replied, Doctor, 
you are an honest man, and are the first to 
tell me a disagreeable truth : do not order 
me any apothecary's stuff, but let my servant 
give me a dram of Nantz from the closet. 

There are many hysterical women, ad- 
dicted to strong tea, who, after paying 
well for apothecary's drams, under the 
form of mixtures and draughts, have at 
length found plain brandy to be equally 
cordial, and less expensive. 

A very learned member of an English 
university, lately dead, was, when I knew 
him at Bath, engaged in a work, from 
which much expectation was formed ; but 
which I believe he did not finish, owing to 
his falling into a beastly habit of dram- 
drinking, from which no remonstrances 
could reclaim him. 

The progress of a sot is gradual from 
weaker to stronger drinks ; and I knew 
one of those miserable men, who swallowed 
draughts of the most fiery spirit of wine. 

The tippling of drams has been one of 
the evil consequences of the habit of tea- 
drinking, and the breach of chastity in 
married and single women has kept pace 
with the practice of dram-drinking, whicli 
whilst it inflames the passions, takes qff 
all prudential restraint. 

The use of strong liquors has.. become; 



DIET AtfD REGIMEN. 51 

inore frequent among persons of rank and 
fortune, since the introduction of foreign 
palateable liqueurs, or sweet drams, to their 
tables. 

That our lives are embittered and short- 
ened by different kinds of intemperance 
and irregularity, is a serious and obvious 
truth ; but there are some circumstances 
attending the vice of drunkenness, which 
merit peculiar consideration. There are 
many worthy and pious persons who, un- 
der various pretexts, are led to take a dram 
occasionally, who would be shocked were 
they to suspect it to be possible they could 
become sots; yet, who have nevertheless 
become so imperceptibly and irrecoverably. 

There is not, in an abstract view, any 
gross immorality in swallowing a glass of 
brandy rather than a glass of wine ; other- 
wise than that we know from experience, 
that the habit of indulgence is more dan- 
gerous from the use of spirits than of wine. 
Many have been reclaimed from habits of 
excess in the use of beers or wines; but 
a gin or a whiskey sot is almost irreclaim- 
able. Spirits benumb the faculties of the 
mind, weaken the understanding, and set the 
-conscience asleep ; and the unhappy wretch 
becoming incapable of reflecting, repent- 
ing, or reforming, is deprived even of the 
precarious and slender benefit of a death- 
bed appeal to divine mercy. Hence it is 
that drunkenness is a more dangerous vice 

e 2 



$2 essay off 

than any other, for it robs a man of his 
prudence and caution, and exposes him to 
:the full force of every temptation. 
■, Notwithstanding the severe censure 
against dram-drinking, it may be asked 
whether the use of spirituous liquors is 
warrantable in any form or degree ? I an- 
swer, that the danger does not consist so 
much in the moderate and occasional use 
of simple spirits with water, as in the ha- 
bit of frequently repeating it, and there 
certainly are occasions when a dram thus 
lowered, may be more salutary than anjr 
other liquor. 

Formerly a variety of cordials were kept 
in private families and in the apothecaries' 
shops, which were not more medicinal 
than plain rum or brandy ; but now that 
absurd practice is less frequent, even with 
the few Lady Bountifuls of the present ge*- 
neration, whose predecessors wasted muck 
time and money in distilling their closet 
cordials, and in poisoning their families, and 
half their neighbours, by dispensing them. 
There are indeed a very few cases in 
which a dram may be preferable ; as whesi 
much heated, in hot climates and seasons* 
when the use of cool liquors have killed' 
suddenly, or at least destroyed the health ; 
several instances of which I have met with 
in the hospital at Bath, where the patients, 
Chiefly labouring poor, were sent, under 
the vulgar term of having a surfeit. But 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 53 

in none of these cases ought these spirits to 
be taken alone, or raw, but mixed with \es9 
or more water, and by this mixture, thtf 
dangerous habit of dram-drinking may be 
avoided ; for there can be no just pretext 
for taking raw spirits alone, or not mixed' 
with water, on any occasion whatsoever. 
It is an extraordinary fact, that the breath 
of dram-drinkers has sometimes taken fire ; 
and it is asserted that an Italian Countess 
was totally consumed (one hand excepted) 
in the course of one night, in consequence 
of drinking inordinately of spirit of wine ; 
a dreadful death, more rapid indeed, but 
not more certain, than that of the habitual 
dram-drinker. 

I will, in a few words, explain why 
what are termed raw spirits are so injurious. 
By their sudden action on the nerves of the 
stomach, they gradually lessen the sensibi- 
lity and digestive power of that organ, and 
consequently undermine the health and 
strength of all the other organs of the 
body, the heart and brain especially, which 
have a peculiar connexion with it. The 
effects are more destructive, as they are 
slow and unsuspected; and the habit be- 
comes so rivetted, that the wretches, though 
warntd and alarmed, have not fortitude to 
desist, but go on increasing the quantity 
and strength of the poison, and it becomes . 
almost their sole meat and drink, and th# 
bane both of body and soul. 



54 ■ ESSAY ON 

Were it possible for the habitual dram- 
drinker to desist at once from the practice, 
it will certainly be worthy of a trial, using 
wine and strong beer in its place ; or ano- 
ther method has been proposed*, which is to 
drop a little melted sealing-wax daily into 
the dram-glass, which, by filling it up gra- 
dually , daily lessens the dose, supplying the 
place by fermented drinks, until the un- 
happy tippler can by this means, entirely 
give up the dangerous practice. 

Drinks, or liquid foods, ought not to be 
taken very warm, for in this state they hurt 
the teeth, and injure the stomach. 

Had I the confidence of our Ministers, 
which I, unfortunately, have not, I should 
advise, that British spirits be totally prohi- 
bited, and that another tax be adopted, to 
compensate to the revenue for the deficiency. 
By this humane regulation, hundreds might 
yearly be preserved from prostitution, Bo- 
tany Bay, and the gallows; beside two-* 
thirds of the lunatics which are patients in 
our hospitals, and thousands who shorten 
their lives by the practice of dram-drinking. 

* By Dr. Lettsom. 



-t^ 



DIET AND HEGIMEN, 55 



CHAP. II. 

REGIMEN, with respect to the use of 
meat and drink, may be divided into three 
classes : the temperate, the high, and the 
low ; or the moderate, stimulant, and seda- 
tive. 

The temperate consists in using such a 
moderate quantity of one dish of any ani- 
mal food, plainly dressed, together with 
fermented bread and vegetables, as not to 
oppress the stomach, especially after a din- 
ner-meal ; and in using such a quantity 
of any kind of fermented drink, beer, cider, 
or wine, as inay not heat to any degree, 
much less to intoxicate. 

2<dly, The high living cannot be termed 
regimen ; for, being contrary to nature, it 
is therefore contrary to rule. Persons may 
be said to live high, who dine on a variety 
of dishes, highly seasoned with spiceries, 
rich sauces, and pickles ; using rich wines, 
and even foreign liquors, sometimes a little 
beyond strict moderation in either ; espe- 
cially, if they repeat the same indulgence 
at a late supper meal, though the latter 
practice is less frequent than fifty years ago. 
This manner of living, with the fashionable 
hours kept, produces a kind of artificial 
fever, which may end in a real one ; or in 
some slow disease, which embitters and 



5(j ESSAY ON 

shortens life. Luxury, therefore, is not 
only a public evil, but a severe chastisement 
to those who indulge in it. 

As example makes a stronger impression 
than precept, I shall briefly give two in- 
stances. < 

A noble Lord, of the highest rank, com- 
plained to me that he had restless feverish 
nights. He was, I found, addicted to hot 
suppers of highly dressed animal foods, his 
bottle of port, and his pipe. I advised his 
Grace to a change of his n\ode of living, 
and directed a course of Elixir of Vitriol. 
Being accused of ignorance or inattention, 
or both, I was discharged. Another Phy- 
sician, more courtly, was called, who assured 
the patient and his connections that he was 
in a good way. But his Lordship losing 
ground daily, I was recalled, and finding. 
Him under the incurable effects of neglect- 
ing my advice months before, the relations 
desired that James's powder might be given, 
to which my brother Doctor reluctantly 
consented, but in vain. 

Here I offer two remarks : 1st, That 
this patient might have lingered out a few. 
years longer, had he changed his mode of 
living, instead of having recourse to medi- 
cines, which could not avail, without regi- 
men. 2dly, It is indispensably incumbent 
on a medical man, to give his opinion 
frankly and fully, especially with respect to, 
regimen ; and, if not obeyed, withdraw him- 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 57 

self, without regard to rank or emolument. 
Many patients have 4ost their lives by this 
servile and immoral compliance: neither 
my brother Doctor, nor myself, approved 
of the James's powder, but it may some- 
times be right to comply with such officious 
interference, unless the Physician is assured 
that he can relieve his patient by another 
method ; in such a case he ought to resist, 
otherwise his conscience will suffer. 

A corpulent gentleman, who lived very 
luxuriously, especially in eating heavy sup- 
pers, was seized with some alarming symp- 
toms, which were removed by my advising 
a change of regimen only. 

I would not advise these high livers, to 
desist immediately and entirely from such a 
course; but that they should gradually 
lessen their spices and rich sauces, and 
sometime miss a dinner-meal entirely, or 
substitute some simple food, and small beer, 
or pure water ; and a habit of moderation 
may, in the event, become as familiar, and 
much more beneficial and comfortable, than 
the former mode of life ; besides, an occa- 
sional change of regimen will determine 
what best will agree. Mr. G/s fate was 
singular ; having wasted a small fortune by 
every kind of ostentatious luxury, he went 
to France, and when I last heard of him, 
he was waiter in an hotel in Paris. — Sic 
transit gloria mundi. -j^ 

This gentleman and his wife ruined 



58 ESSAY ON 

ihemselves and their family, by absurdly 
emulating persons of fashion and fortune. 

By persons thus treading on the heels of 
their superiors, the pale of distinction is 
thrown down by toad-eaters, swindlers and 
gamblers, who, by keeping the best company , 
exalt themselves to the high prerogative of 
being people of fashion. The empire of 
fashion is now become universal ; it is not 
confined to dress and equipage ; but also to 
our phraseology, doctors, politics, morals, 
religion, and even our vices ; men and 
women of fashion are super-eminently dis- 
tinguished from those of no fashion, or whom 
nobody knows; who, mortified by want of 
distinction, to which they have no claim, 
use every effort to get out of their proper 
place, and into the circle of fashion : thus 
the folly descends at length to the very 
lowest ranks. 

3dly, A low diet consists in an abstinence 
from animal foods, milk excepted, and 
from strong drinks. This course has some- 
times been undertaken by those of the second 
class, who have entailed diseases upon 
themselves by living too fast. I have 
known two instances, wherein gout was 
cured by a low diet; and I am persuaded, 
many other inveterate diseases may be cured 
by it; but to render it safe, the change 
ought to be gradual, especially if the con- 
stitution be much broken. There is ano- 
ther class of invalids, who derive their dis- 



DIET AND REGIMEN. $9 

eases from their parents, who may benefit: 
by this regimen, provided they begin early, 
which they rarely can be prevailed to do, 
if they have once indulged themselves in 
the gratifications of luxury. 

An obvious reflection occurs here : that 
one strong inducement to temperance (be- 
side others) is the consideration, that if they 
intend to enter the married state, it is their 
duty not to injure their constitutions, lest 
they entail the consequences on an innocent 
offspring. The remark is indeed much less 
applicable to the fair sex ; yet I have known 
instances where they have injured their 
healths by fashionable irregularities and 
inattention ; and there are many who every 
year fail victims to consumptions from such 
causes; of which not a few have prema- 
turely fallen into the grave, under my eye. 



> * »' 



« i * 



<w 



6o 



ESSAY ON 



CHAP. III. 



EXERCISE AND REST. 



§1- Exercise. — In the arrangement of the 
articles of regimen, it is ofvejy little con- 
sequence in what order they are placed in 
relation to each other. 

Whosoever contemplates the rank man 
holds in the creation, will discover that 
our duties and offices in life are of an active 
nature ; and that, in scripture phrase, we 
are destined to procure our subsistence by 
the sweat of our brow ; at least, this is the 
lot of much the greater part of mankind. 

In the slight sketch given of the human 
system (see Introduction), certain organs 
termed muscles are mentioned, and these, of 
various sizes and forms, are the instru- 
ments of motion, either involuntary, as of 
the heart, lungs, &c. or voluntary, as in 
moving the various limbs. 

Wonderful, indeed, is the mechanism of 
the muscles, of which some hundreds are 
appropriated to the different human move- 
ments. 

Exercise, or motion is of great conse- 
quence in the preservation of health, and 
s<f beneficial in the prevention of diseases, 
that many ailments just forming, have, as 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 61 

it were, been nipped in the bud, by appro-* 
priate exercise, which probably would 
otherwise have ended fatally ; and it is of 
the utmost importance, that the reader 
keep this veiy serious truth constantly in 
mind. 

Exercise is of various kinds, but upon 
most of these. I shall be very brief : it will, 
however, be of consequence to explain in 
what way exercise contributes to preserve 
or recover health. 

Life consists in motion, death in a cessa- 
tion of it- The living body is a machine 
consisting of many organs and tubes by 
which thousands, or rather millions of mo- 
tions are constantly performed, whether we 
are awake or asleep, in motion or at rest. 
Those who are acquainted with the work- 
manship of machines invented by men, 
know that an apparently trifling irregular 
rity, or impediment, in one part, may dis-* 
turb the equal motion of the whole, e. g. a 
watch. This is precisely the case in the 
body of man. These very numerous mo* 
tions of organs, muscles, and tubes, may be 
too strong or too weak, too quick or too 
slow, either in the whole body, or in parti- 
cular parts ; and if this irregularity conti- 
nues for any time, health must, at least, be 
injured, or may be totally lost. Regular 
exercise tends to prevent these irregulari- 
ties by promoting equal and steady mo^ior* 
through the whole machine. 



62 . ESSAY ON 

That exercise or motion is necessary for 
the preservation of our health, is Evident 
from the playfulness and activity of young 
animals, who follow the dictates of nature ; 
and every one must have experienced viva- 
city and vigour after exercise, if used in 
due moderation. 

To the indolent, delicate, and invalid, 
carriage exercise is preferable ; horse exer- 
cise to the more hardy ; but foot exercise 
is most convenient for many reasons. Small 
is the proportion of mankind who can af- 
ford to use either a carriage or a horse ; 
whereas, the exercise I shall presently de- 
scribe, is in the power of the most indigent, 
has all the advantages of either, and, in 
some instances, is preferable to all ; there- 
fore, even those who can afford to use either 
carriage, or horse exercise, or walk abroad, 
ought not therefore to omit the use of leads 
at home. 

The fashionable lady and gentleman, 
after quitting their beds at noon, and saying 
their prayers, if they please, may take 200 
or 300 of these salutary movements, to give 
them a better appetite for breakfast. Or, 
if at any time the lady shall experience a 
fit of ennui, spleen, or chagrin (evils from 
which rank, fashion, or fortune, will not 
always exempt them), a course of this exer- 
cise will give a different turn to the animal 
spirits, and may produce vivacity and good 
humour. 



DIET ANI> RE4HMEN. 6? 

In tfyeopen air it is the more whole- 
some f but it is not always convenient to 
Walk abroad, either for the studious, in valid, 
or for such persons as work chiefly within 
doors ; and for these last, it is of conse- 
quence that they waste as little time as pos- 
sible, when their subsistence depends on 
their labour. 

There are certain circumstances neces- 
sary to make exercise useful. 1. It should 
be as general as possible ; the movements 
should be so quick and strong, as to pro- 
duce a considerable and rapid change on 
the organs moved; and, 2. The exercise 
should be repeated as often every day, as 
to give such a certain degree of vigour to 
the organs moved, as shall, as nearly as 
possible, correspond with the natural heal- 
thy state. 

Among the ancient Greeks and Romans, 
what was termed gymnastic exercise, form- 
ed a very essential part of education, be- 
cause almost all the young men were bred to 
a military life; and such exercise rendered 
their limbs strong and pliant ; insomuch, 
that their military arms and accoutrements 
.weighed about 60lb. ; being more than 
double of those of the moderns. 

Many years ago, I met with an Irish 
.Clergyman, who made great pretensions to 
medical knowledge ; but the only branch 
of it in which he seemed to excgl v was, Jiis 
being well acquainted with the benefit -of 



64 ESSAY ON 

exercise, not only in preventing many dis- " 
eases, but in being a principal mean iri 
curing some* 

Passing over what related to the flesh- 
brush, swinging, the use of a carriage, cold 
bathing, and sailing, which it does not 
come within my plan to take notice of ; 
there was one kind upon which he expa- 
tiated, and which he declared, was much 
preferable to any other ; as indeed I have 
for many years experienced in myself and 
others, after making a considerable im- 
provement on his plan. 

This exercise is performed in the follow- 
ing manner : procure two pieces of lead, 
from between half a pound to a pound 
weight each, according to the strength of 
the arms, either in the form of a bullet, or 
oblong, like a rolling-pin ; when used, the 
person is to stand upright with his toes a 
little turned out ; raise the leads, nearly 
close to each other, opposite to the pit of 
the stomach, bending the knees at the same 
time ; then thrust the arras down smartly, 
as far as they will go without stooping, and 
straighten the knees at the same instant^ 
and ftius continue these opposite motions 
alternately and quickly, until the arms feel . 
to be slightly weary, and repeat it three or 
four times a day, especially before break- ■> 
fast, dinner, and going to bed. 

This most salutary exercise has many ad* 
vantages- It gives a quick shock from the 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 6 # 5 

top of the head to the sole of the foot — it 
may be used more slowly and gently at first, 
gradually increasing — and is often used to 
300 or 400 strokes at each time — when the 
weather is not bad, a window may be open 
and fronting. A person whose lower limbs 
are weakened by any cause, may use it sit- 
ting. The effects are, 

1st, In persons in full health, who have 
not leisure or inclination to dress so as to 
appear abroad, the necessary exercise may 
be had at one time in five or six minutes, 
equal to what an hour space will procure 
by walking, and is preferable, because more 
equal and powerful. 2dly, In all persons, 
those especially who are delicate and un- 
steady in their healths, the general effects 
are to promote appetite and digestion ; 
gently promote the circulation of the blood 
equally through the different parts of the 
body, increase the secretions, particularly 
perspiration inwardly, and on the skin : 
this quick and vibratory motion strengthens 
the nerves and muscles, enlivens the spirits, 
and renders sleep more sound and refresh- 
ing. 

I know experimentally, that studious 
men suffer much by want of exercise, and 
their nights are often sleepless, or much dis- 
turbed. Such men are often very unwilling 
to quit their books, and to undergo the for- 
mality of dressing to walk abroad- This 
ceremony and loss of time, is avoided by 
this means, and not more than fifteen or 

F 



6S ESSAY ON 

• ■. 

twenty minutes of precious time expended 
in twenty-four hours. Thjtis exercised, the 
studious may return to their books with 
fresh vigour of body and mind. 

3dly, In some diseases, as at the end of a 
fit of gout or rheumatism, or cholic com- 
plaints, swelling of the legs, and nervous 
weakness, 'it may be used gently at first, 
and gradually increased ; in severe colds and 
coughs, especially with pains of the breast, 
and feverish complaints, it ought to be 
omitted till the symptoms abate. 

To this most salutary exercise, with a 
gouty and rheumatic habit, subject also to 
imperfect digestion and frequent cholics, 
and having completely recovered from a 
slight paralytic stroke, and being now at 
the age of seventy-three, I am chiefly in- 
debted for a pliancy of my legs and arras, 
rarely met with at my time of life ; and I 
can assure every invalid, who shall use this 
exercise daily and steadily, that they may 
thereby strengthen a weak constitution, se- 
cure a more comfortable, though perhaps 
npt a very firm state of health, and pass 
the latter years of life, less oppressed arid 
distressed by those complaints which gejie- 
rally accompany old age. 

If the lead is uncomfortably cold, it may 
be covered with cloth. 

In describing the lead exercise, it m^y be 
right to be a little more particular. 1st, 
The rootipn to the breast and downwards, 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 6j 

though. really two motions, I only consi- 
der as one; but the one downward is 
by much the strongest. 2dly, When it is 
begun, it should be more gentle, but gradu- 
ally increased in quickness and force. 
Sdly, Many persons can go on to four hun- 
dred,, or five hundred at one turn, others 
cannot ; the best rule is to leave off before 
the arms or lower limbs be painfully tired. 
4thly, When a person cannot stand, it may 
be used sitting ; but in this case, the lower 
limbs and back should be rubbed several 
times a day with strong camphorated spirit, 
six parts, and two parts of tincture of can- 
tharides, and afterwards well rubbed with the 
flesh brush. The tincture in the propor- 
tion of two may inflame too much, it there- 
fore may be lessened. A long course of 
electricity may be of use in such a case. 

In last March, as in several springs of 
former years, I desisted from the exercise, 
on account of a cough, which I had every 
reason to believe to be gouty. It being 
mitigated by the means mentioned in 
page 79, I was suddenly, and without any 
warning, seized with an exquisite, and fixed 
pain, considerably below the region of the 
kidneys, which was, within a few hours, 
followed by a delirium, and a temporary 
palsy of the left side. The physician who 
^ttended me, Dr. Patterson, justly, I believe, 
judged it to be a gouty translation. 

Remarks. — I bave fornearfortyyearsbeen 

f 2 



€9 ESSAY ON 

subject to gouty pains in my great toes, an- 
cles, and insteps, but have never been able 
to fix it in any of those parts, owing, I 
suppose to want of strength in the consti- 
tution to deposit it in those remote organs. 
Hence I account why I have been severely 
and dangerously affected by it in my head, 
my lungs, my stomach, bowels, and in thfe 
lower part of my back. These attacks 
have been seldom more than once a year ; 
but the very alarming symptoms of delirium 
and palsy occurred only four years ago and 
lately, and those subsided in a few days ; 
and I firmly believe, that these symptoms 
recurring so seldom, proceeded from the use 
of the leads ; and I am inclined to think, 
though I cannot venture to aver, that I 
might have escaped the attack in my back, 
had not I omitted the usual exercise of 
leads on account of the cough. 

Whilst labouring under any degree of 
pain, or gouty affection, I always abstained 
from the exercise, doubtful what might 
be its effect; but, having an indispensably 
necessary journey of many hundred miles to 
take in a few weeks, and the painful weak- 
ness of my back continuing to a consider- 
able degree, I proposed to my physician to 
hazard the experiment, and now (April 3, 
1799), find the complaint yielding; and 
in a few days after it entirely ceased. 

Whilst 1 was a physician at Bath, and 
from what I have remarked elsewhere, I 



DIET AND RfiGSMEN. 69 

have every reason to believe, that many 
thousands in Great Britain, and its depen- 
dencies, labour under rheumatisms, gqut, 
and palsy, in various degrees and compli- 
cations ; and that these diseases are becom- 
ing more frequent, owing, for the most part, 
to increase of luxury ; tfiough I know some 
remarkable exceptions to the contrary, 
where persons temperate and sober, have 
yet been addicted to one or other of these 
diseases. 

It is notoriously known that many rheu- 
matic and gouty patients become not merely 
cripples, but not a few from incurable 
contraction of the joints, are reduced to a 
miserable state of decrepitude for years ; 
and I think such might have been my 
state, if I had not prevented it by the lead 
exercise. We know that few persons in 
pain have sufficient fortitude to make the 
least effort to move the pained part ; it is 
known also, that many rheumatic and 
gouty persons have scarcely any interval of 
ease between one fit and another, and that 
contraction and decrepitude of the joints 
must follow. It is, however, my duty, as 
an honest man, to confess tlrat I never was 
bold enough to recommend the experiment 
I have now, for the first time, made on 
myself; I fear, however, few will follow 
my example. But if the fear of pain, in 
and considerable degree, shall deter such 
sufferers from renewing the use of the leads 



V 



70 ESSAY ON 

.'■*■■■ 

ftg I have done, yet a regard to their future 
comfort will induce them to begin the use 
of them gently at first, even before the pain 
be totally gone ; not only because it is likely 
it will bring the fit sooner and more com- 
pletely to an end ; but also by restoring the 
parts earlier to the usual degree of strength 
and pliancy, the return of another fit nlay 
be suspended, or at least rendered less seh 
vere : it is, I believe, the most certain means 
of preserving a moderate use of their limbs. 
Medical men know that there is an intimate 
connexion between painful diseases and the 
opposite state of palsy; in which both sense 
and the power of motion are lost ; and how 
many miserable beings are there who survive 
for years in this half-dead state, who, had 
they used this exercise with due persever- 
ance, might have totally escaped it ! 

This gentleman's plan consisted in throw- 
ing the arms and body into various atti- 
tudes, but it was defective, not only Tby not 
giving additional force and velocity to the 
arms by the leads, but because the lower 
limbs remained without exercise ; whereas, 
on this plan, the whole body is equally ex- 
ercised. Bending and extending the wrists 
briskly and smartly very much, incr;e££es 
the shocks. 

Too much could not well be said in praise 
of this excellent exercise, but my plan wfill 
not pej mit me to enlarge. 

Useful and even necessary as exercise is, 



DIET AND REGIMEN. fi 

it may be very injurious in excess : thus la- 
bouring men not only wear out their con- 
stitutions by hard work, but incur diseases 
thereby : moreover, pleasant as the amuse- 
ment of dancing is, many a fair female 
flower has been prematurely blasted, partly 
by fatigue, but chiefly by exposure to the 
cold air, and using cold drinks when heated. 

In either case, warm drinks, and * even 
'spirits with hot water is the safest drink ; 
the under clothing should be shifted as soon 
as possible, and dry and warm linen, or 
flannel, put on next the body, until the 
bad effects are gone off, and the body en- 
tirely cooled. 

What would be a better precaution, when 
such an exercise is foreseen, a flannel waist- 
coat, ought to be put on next the body before 
they prepare to dress ; their feelings during 
the exercise will be much more comfortable, 
and the hazard of catching cold will be 
much less. 

The same precaution is recommended to 
young men before they enter on any violent 
exercise; and both sexes ought to have a 
reserve of such waistcoats, that they may 
shift them, and not remove them till the 
following morning. 

Had I, when a young man, known the 
great utility of this expedient, I might, I 
am persuaded, have escaped many severe 
illnesses. 

The use of the warm bath to the legs, 



72 ESSAY ON 

directed chap, iv, ought to be used before 
going to bed, after violent exercise. 

I have just mentioned cold bathing here 
as an exercise and preservative of health. 
In ought to be used early, and fasting; sud- 
den dipping twice or thrice is sufficient. — 
Previous to its being used by invalids the 
medical man should be consulted. In a 
following chapter I have strongly recom- 
mended face-bathing, as an excellent pre- 
ventive of colds, rheums, tooth-aches, weak 
eyes, &c. 

§11. Rest and sleep. — Rest is considered 
as opposite to exercise, and therefore a se- 
dative ; as is sleep, when opposed to watch- 
ing. Without a proper share of sleep, the 
body would soon be disordered and ex- 
hausted ; but too much sleep more fre- 
quently predisposes to maladies. One cau- 
tion, little attended to, should be men- 
tioned, viz. the bed-chamber ought to have 
a free air, and close curtains are very in- 
jurious. Whilst I practised at Bath, a 
gentleman and a lady were much benefited 
under nervous disorders, by keeping open 
the 'upper division of a window in the bed- 
chamber all night, lowering the curtain, or 
shutting the shutter, if the wind blew di- 
rectly into the bed : I, and my family, 
have benefited by this practice during 
many years, 

' . Many diseases are produced or exaspe- 
rated by poor persons sleeping in confined 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 73 

chambers, and breathing hot foul air.~ 
Mattresses are preferable to feather beds, 
and the feet should slope gradually lower 
than the head : the bed-clothes should not 
be numerous, but just sufficient to keep the 
body temperately warm : some persons 
subject to cold feet ought to have their legs 
better covered than the body, when in bed. 

Those who are reasonably solicitous to 
preserve health, ought to keep early hours, 
thereby imitating the instinctive regularity 
of the brute creation ; an instinct bestowed 
by their Creator. Sitting up late, wears out 
the faculties of both body and mind, and 
lying late in a morning weakens both. 

This abuse of precious time by dissipation 
and inverting nature, suggests very serious 
considerations of a more important kind ; for 
at the great day we shall certainly account 
for every hour wasted in slothful slum- 
bers, trifling amusements, or guilty gratifi- 
cations. Many such hours are so mis-spent 
by the bulk of mankind. Those whose 
easy fortunes place them above the neces- 
sity of following any professional occupa- 
tion, should remember that they will be 
severely responsible for the neglect of many 
essential duties which ought to occupy 
those hours they at present waste ; and even 
the busy, bustling, worldling, might em- 
ploy in improving his head and heart, those 
hours which he mis-spends in taverns, ale- 
houses, dram-shops, and public spectacles. 



74 , ESSAY ON 

A late very celebrated divine, having rest- 
less nights, fell upon the expedient of get- 
ting out of bed whensoever he awoke, even 
at midnight, and did not return to it till he 
was drowsy ; by this means he got into the 
habit of obtaining sound sleep, for a suffi- 
cient number of hours. The celebrated 
Dr. Franklin, by standing for a few mi- 
nutes after he was undressed, before he went 
into bed, believed he procured more re- 
* freshing sleep ; rubbing the body with the 
flesh-brush at that time will be of use. It 
may also be useful in the morning under 
the clothes, or out of bed, before the per- 
son dresses. Keeping the head and feet 
warm, whilst in bed, induces sleep, and 
preserves health, by promoting perspira- 
tion. Some persons have benefited by 
sleeping in a flannel waistcoat, sliders, or 
drawers, the nervous, gouty, and rheuma- 
tic especially. As disturbed or sleepless 
nights are veiy distressing, and though 
there be not any present formed disease, yet 
it must soon produce disease : one of the 
best means for restoring natural rest I 
ever yet experienced, and the safest, is the 
use of a warm bath to the legs, as directed 
under the next chapter. This simple mode 
of relief, I earnestly recommend to studi- 
ous men, and to those who are subject to 
frequent attacks of nervous head-aches, 
cholics, rheumatic or gouty pains ; and I 
can promise them much comfort from it, 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 75 

if the vessel be deep enough to admit the 
water to the knees, and the heat gradually . 
increased so as to bring on a gentle sweat, 
just before going to bed. 

Some persons, whilst in a sound sleep, 
;et out of bed, dress themselves, light a 
ire, go out of doors, and even mount to 
the ridge of the house. In the French En- 
cyclopaedia, Monsieur Maloin has given &* 
very extraordinary instance of a younj 
ecclesiastic, who in his sleep, wrote, an< 
even corrected his sermons, by interlinear 
tions. It was found that his eyes were shut, 
and therefore he could not see the charac- 
ters he tyrote. 

Some years ago, a young gentleman hap- 
pily acquired a valuable wife, by a young 
lady having in one of her somnambulous 
fits, gone to the bed in which he, as a 
guest, lay ; there being no other accom- 
modation for him, except a supposed 
haunted chamber. 

He slipped a ring from her finger, and 
her father gave her to him, that lie might 
next night receive her legally. 



76 ESSAY ON 



CHAP. IV. 

CLOTHING is required for the pur- 
poses of decency, and to defend the body 
from the inclemency of the veather; but 
fashion often counteracts both these inten- 
tions, especially in females : I am much 
pleased, however, to find, that the necessity 
of a remonstrance I made in a former 
treatise on regimen is superseded, by their 
generally leaving off stays ; and I trust this 
gJbsurd practice will never again become 
fashionable. It often happens that one ab- 
surd fashion drives out another. The ridi- 
culously short female waists have happily 
banished the use of straight stays. 

Another bad practice seems to be, creep- 
ing in among young persons, of wearing 
flannel next the body ; but the use of it 
ought to be confined to men much exposed 
to a burning sun and night air in hot cli- 
mates, or those who spend their winters in 
very cold countries, and to invalids, and 
aged persons in any climate. The young 
and healthy ought, in this country, to re- 
serve these indulgences till old age or ill 
health require them. 

In our unsteady climate, it is difficult to 
proportion the clothing to the weather ; 
ihe delicate and invalid ought rather to 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 77 

exceed; and, in going into the air after 
sunset, to increase the covering. Cotton or 
flannel next the body, even in very hot cli- 
mates, is not only comfortable, but an excel- 
lent preservative against diseases. I would 
advise those who are fond of dancing, or 
set about any other laborious exercise, to ; 
put on a flannel waistcoat next the body, to ; 
be continued until the body is quite coolj, : 
and to go to bed as soon as possible, using 
some warm drinks: many might, by this ..? 
precaution, avoid colds, fevers, coughs, and 
consumptions. The flannel ought to be 
changed oftener in the summer than in 
winter, on account of the more copious per- 
spiration. 

Connected with the subject, is the use 
of fires in our apartments. One rule is, to 
preserve a certain proportion between the 
degree of temperature of the air, without 
and within doors; because, if a person 
leaves a room very much heated, and passes 
into a very cold air, they are apt to be in- 
jured by the sudden change. Therefore it 
is right to sit in a large room with a good 
fire, but not to sit very near it. Some per- 
sons use fire in their bedchambers, but it is 
not advisable, because the sulphur-vapour 
fouls the air more even than smoke. 

In the cold season, persons that are ten- .< 
der get a habit of having their beds warmed. 
This ought not to be done with hot coals, 
because the fume fouls the air : hot sand, 



78 ESSAY ON 

or jars filled with hot water, are preferable ; 
or a hot jar may be laid at the soles of the 
feet all night. The late Alderman Beck- 
ford, who was bred a physician, after hav- 
ing his bed well warmed, had the bed 
clothes turned down, and exposed to the 
air, so that they were cooled before he went 
to bed. He was justly of opinion, that the 
perspirable vapour thrown off by myriads 
of small vessels from the surface of the 
body, and of the lungs, carried some noxi- 
ous matter, which tainted the surrounding 
atmosphere. The truth of the opinion 
cannot be doubted, as is evident when per- 
spiration becomes sensible in the form of 
sweat: and I would here add, that pre- 
serving an equal perspiration (which; ~by 
experiment, is found to amount to some 
pounds in twenty-four hours), is very con- 
ducive to health ; and this is one reason 
why persons ought to change their body 
linen, or woollen frequently. Damp liheh 
and bed clothes are very injurious, and havte 
been fatal. 

Tender and invalid persons ought- to be 
very attentive to their clothing ; and in this 
unsteady climate rather exceed thai* fall 
short. By the gouty, and those who are 
subject to cold feet/ thick flannel socks 
should be worn day and night, in winter 
and spring, and waistcoat, drawers, ffcral 
night-caps of flannel or fleecy hesieryv next 
the body ; the shoes should be strong, but 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 79 

soft and large, so as to admit the addition 
of more stockings or socks, if wet or 
very CQld weather require it : it is of thte 
greatest importance to have the feet well 
defended. , 

In slight indispositions, from what is 
termed catching cold, or great fatigue, 
bathing the legs in moderately warm water, 
lias often been an excellent means of pre- 
venting dangerous consequences. Every 
family ought to have a narrow tub with 
handles, so deep as to reach the knees. It 
ought to be nearly filled, and the heat gra- 
dually increased by adding boiling water, 
till a gentle sweat breaks out and continues 
for half an hour : wipe the legs dry, put on 
a pair of worsted stockings, and when in 
bed, apply a jar with hot water to the soles, 
and by some warm drink keep up a gentle 
sweat through the night, and part o? next 
xiay. By these simple means, I have often 
experienced in myself and others, the best 
effects in removing symptoms in a few 
hours, which threatened very serious con- 
sequences. The air of the chamber should 
be cool, the curtains open, and the bed- 
covering not more heavy than usual. If 
the person is not disposed to sleep within an 
hour, 20 drops of laudanum may be given 
with warm gruel. This dose is foe a full 
gyown person. 

There is another addition to ; dress, very 



• i i 



80 ESSAY ON 

necessary to persons of weak digestion, 
subject to cholics, gravelly complaints, or 
rheumatic pains of the back : a very broad 
horseman's belt, to be tightened or slacken- 
ed at pleasure, by buckles and straps. 



DIET AND REGiMEX. 81 



CHAP. V. 

Rules for Preserving and Establishing the 
Health of Young Persons. 

THE stoutest infant, when born, is the 
most helpless of all the animal creation, 
and requires the most care. There is no 
circumstance of so much importance in 
society, as a careful and steady employ- 
ment of the proper means for establishing 
the health, and forming the minds of the 
rising generation. This striking and ob- 
vious truth is not sufficiently attended to ; 
and for this several cogent reasons might 
be assigned. Man is a child of habit, and 
from our natural propensities, we are more 
disposed to acquire bad than good habits, 
both of body and of mind. When the con- 
stitution of one or both parents has been 
enervated by a luxurious and fashionable 
mode of life, the evil is entailed on their 
offspring, who are generally a puny and 
sickly race ; and this is one cause, no doubt, 
of the great mortality to be hereafter taken 
notice of* 

But the evil is increased by the infant 
being, under various pretexts, resigned to 
a strange woman, of whose dispositions 



82 ESSAY ON 

and habits it is very difficult to judge. 
Were this unnatural practice confined to the 
great and the fashionable, the evil would be 
less extensive ; but it has become too fre- 
quent among the middle ranks of life in this 
kingdom. The health of women who 
suckle their own children is generally im- 
proved by it, and to a woman of principle 
the office is delightful. 

I shall place these rules between two 
periods: From the birth to the twelfth 
year, and shall be as brief as possible, after 
making a few general observations. It is 
a painful reflection, that out of one thou- 
sand born, four hundred and forty-six are 
cut off between the birth and the end of 
the eighth year ; that is, two hundred and 
sixty within the first year, eighty in the 
second, forty in the third, twenty-four in 
the fourth, and twenty-two within the next 
four years. 

It is surely the indispensable duty of the 
physician to trace, with care, the causes 
of this great mortality, and endeavour to 
lessen it ; for much of it must be owing to 
mismanagement. I have already mentioned 
as causes, hereditary weakness from irre- 
gularity of parents, and mercenary nurses ; 
feut\[ am firmly persuaded, that a due at- 
tention to the following rules may save 
many, and farther d'minish the loss. 

The infknt's head should be kept cool 
from the birth — no cradle used. — It should 



DIET AND REQIMEN. 85 

lie alone, on a small mattress, within reach 
of the mother — be suckled till they have 
two teeth above and below — foods should 
consist of gruel, new milk, bread or bis- 
cuit boiled with water — no flour-pap, pan-; 
cakes, tough, heavy, or fat meats ; though 
if the child be weakly, and subject to 
cholics, weak broth made of lean beef may 
be given. — It ought to be fed frequently, 
in small quantities — when the mother has 
abundance of milk, other foods will be less 
necessary during the first three months ; 
but it will be right to give infants a habit 
of feeding early, lest the mother should be 
ill. — They should not be allowed to lie wet 
through the night, which is too frequent a 
practice. They ought always to be so 
placed as to view objects directly before 
them, to prevent squinting. — Leading- 
strings are improper, but they should feel 
their own powers by degrees, by creeping 
on the floor. — Clothing should be simple, 
using no pins, but tapes : in the winter, a 
flannel waistcoat may be worn between the 
shirt and the frock. The stockings should 
not cover the knees, no garters, no shoes 
before eighteen months, and then easy, and 
without heels. Stiff jackets and stays are 
very hurtful ; young persons ought not to 
have their hair tied, or use collars to their 
shirts ; they should sleep on mattresses, 
with their heads low. Children or young 
people ought not to be put to bed till tired, 

g 2 



84 ESSAY ON 

nor allowed to lie afaff awake. Both sexes 
should begin the exercise recommended in 
Chap. II. about the tenth year ; it contri- 
butes powerfully to strengthen the limbs, 
and confirm the constitution. 

Air and exercise are necessary, and sleep- 
ing in hot and close rooms very hurtfuL 
There is an absurd, and often pernicious 
practice of tossing the child, and lifting it 
up by one limb ; lameness, or sudden death, 
have been the consequence. 

When the child* is weaned, or even a 
little before, it may by degrees be indulged 
with a crust. Children should be often 
washed in cold water ; and after the third 
or fourth year, and ever after through life, 
the following practice is recommended as 
exceedingly beneficial i 

The boy or girl should be encouraged to 
dip the face into a bason of, cold water, 
Jceeping the mouth and eyes open, conti- 
nuing the face under the water until they 
require drawing a fresh breath, and repeat 
this thrice every morning. It will require 
some resolution to make the first trials ; 
but custom will soon reconcile them. This 
practice strengthens the eyes and gums, 
preserves the teeth, and will prevent that 
tormenting evil the tooth-ache, and colds 
and rheums of the head ; and acts, in some 
measure as a cold bath, by sympathy, on 
the whole body. During the early years of 
life, (and it were better if the practice were 



DIET A^D REGIMEN. 85 

continued to the end of it) no cakes or 
sweet-meats should be indulged in ; butter, 
fat meats, or such as are salted, smoked 
or high seasoned, used sparingly : the food 
ought to be chiefly vegetable : the vile 
habit of tea-drinking totally avoided : foods 
should not be dressed in glazed, earthen 
copper, or tinned vessels : very hot meats 
and drinks are hurtful. With respect to 
drink, water is undoubtedly the most whole- 
some from the beginning to the end of life ; 
but few will submit to such restraint ; 
young people ought. 

I formerly remarked, that simplicity of 
diet is peculiarly necessary for young per- 
sons, as it not only tends to preserve health, 
but gives them a laudable habit of being 
contented with plain food ; as it is to be 
hoped the habit will abide through life. 
A desire of using highly seasoned foods, and 
a luxurious variety of them, is a real mis-* 
fortune at any time of life, but particularly 
in younger persons ; and many bad effects 
have arisen from the absurd and cruel in- 
dulgence of parents in this respect. When 
children are weakly, however, especially in 
their bowels, and have a tendency to rickets, 
I have seen good effects from the use of a 
little wine, animal food roasted or boiled, 
and the flesh-brush ; and it is with pleasure 
I recollect a gentleman now high in the 
army, who was reared thus to manhood, by 
my direction, after the loss of many chil- 



86 ESSAY ON 

dren of the same family. This mortality 
seemed to proceed from an absurd preju- 
dice in the parents against the use of animal 
food, and wine, by children, under any cir- 
cumstances whatsoever. It is as absurd to 
suppose, that one kind of regimen is equally 
adapted to every kind of habit or constitu- 
tion, as that one remedy will cure every 
disease, 

I formerly observed, that it is more easy 
to correct and harden a weakly constitution 
ip voung persons, than to amend a broken 
habit in persons advanced in life ; and the 
reason seems to be, that the younger have 
fewer evil habits to conquer, and therefore 
are more manageable. The parents ought, 
therefore, to make the best use of this op- 
portunity, which, if neglected, never can be 
recalled. 

When young persons begin to use solid 
food, they are apt to eat voraciously : this 
ought to be checked, not only by limiting 
the quantity, but also by enjoining them to 
chew their solid foods slowly and completely, 
for reasons given in Chap. I. 

Young people ought never to be per- 
mitted to be nice in the choice of their 
foods, but be obliged to use all wholesome 
foods without distinction or objection. No- 
thing can be more degrading to a reason- 
able and responsible being, than an epicu- 
rean appetite ; for, besides that indulgence 
of it injures health, it deeply taints the soul 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 87 

with desires which never fail to embitter life 
in its progress, but chiefly at the close of it. 

Before I finish this chapter, on the ma- 
nagement of young persons, I think it my 
duty to give my decided opinion on a prac- 
tice, to which many persons, especially in 
North Britain, are very averse ; I meaji 
inoculation. 

This may be considered in a moral and 
a political view. 

In a moral \ or rather a religious view, it is 
opposed by predestinarians ; but I am not yet 
persuaded that our Almighty Creator has 
pre-determined every possible contingency, 
so as to exclude the use of means ; other- 
wise, as an honest man, I must long ago 
have relinquished my profession. I humbly 
conceive, that such an universal fatality as 
this opinion implies, would destroy the 
distinction between virtue and vice, and the 
very essence of morality and religion ; and 
the opinion seems to be expressly contra- 
dicted by many texts of scripture, which is 
the infallible rule both of our doctrine and 
practice. 

None, however, I believe, but an atheist, 
will deny that the life and death of all his 
creatures are at God's sovereign disposal ; 
and it may be conceived, what an extensive 
influence such a power, possessed by a 
Being of infinite wisdom and goodness, 
must have in the dispensations of his pro- 
vidence. 



88 E5SAY ON 

In apolitical view, the practice is ^unde- 
niably warrantable. Before inoculatibn was 
introduced into this kingdom, about the 
year 1720, it was found that one in ten 
died of the small pox ; but of those who 
were inoculated, and properly managed, 
the proportion was not more than one of 
near eleven hundred. 

The discovery of inoculation with the 
cow pock (or as it is called, vaccine ino- 
culation), is undoubtedly a peculiar dispen- 
sation of the providence of our Almighty 
Creator. As I verily believe, neither age 
jior sex need entertain any anxiety from not 
having had the smallpox; and the rapi- 
dity with which the practice of it is dif- 
fused throughout the known world, leaves 
little doubt, but the effect of this dreadful 
malady may be counteracted altogether ! 

I therefore earnestly exhort all parents 
and guardians, to give their children ft fair 
chance, by an early inoculation, 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 89 



'* 



CHAP. VI. 

r 

CLEANLINESS is not merely comfort- 
able and healthful ; but it is really a moral 
virtue. In this respect we ought to be uni- 
formly neat in our apparel, apartments, 
those especially in which we sleep, and iri 
preparing and dressing our foods. 

Having travelled over a considerable part 
of Europe and America, I found the English 
and the inhabitants of the British West In- 
dia Islands, very superior to all other coun- 
tries in these respects. 

There is no circumstance in personal 
cleanliness in which there is greater inat- 
tention, than in neglecting to wash the 
mouth frequently ; and young persons ought 
to be early habituated to this useful prac- 
tice ; it contributes to preserve the teeth, 
and sweeten the breath. 

In some persons, the glands of the arm- 
pits, and those between the toes, throw off 
a very offensive matter : and yet the per- 
sons themselves are rarely sensible of 
it: this, among many other proofs that 
may be brought, shews the necessity of at- 
tention to the neatness of our persons. 
Those who chew or smoke tobacco ought 
to wash their mouths well and often ; and 
those who snuff, should cleanse their nos- 



90 ESSAY ON 

trils, by snuffing up some warm water re- 
peatedly, before they go to sleep ; by these 
means, they will discharge a quantity of 
very acrid poisonous oil, which, if swal- 
lowed, will be injurious to the stomach, and 
of encrusted snuff which impedes the breath- 
ing. The use of tobacco, in any form, is a 
vile practice ; the habit ought to be pow- 
erfully resisted, as it is certainly injurious to 
the health. 

It was a remark of Dean Swift, that a 
nice man was a man of dirty ideas. With- 
out inquiring into the truth of the jeu d'es- 
prit, I can only say, that I deemed it my 
duty not to omit whatever came within my 
plan ; that is, whatever contributed to 
health or comfort ; we should carefully 
avoid giving disgust to those with whom 
we associate : it is also right to remark, that 
the sloven and the slattern may, and fre- 
quently do, injure not only their own health 
but that of others. 

In eastern countries, warm bathing is a 
kind of religious rite, and in colder, cli- 
mates partial bathing, especially of the 
lower limbs, is proper. Personal neatness, 
and gaudy finery, are very different things, 
and are not always met with together :* this 
hint may be of use to some of the fairer part 
of the creation especially. 

Under this chapter may very properly 

. * Simplex mu:iditiis.---I/oral. 



DIET AND REGIMEN 91- 

be brought two articles of very great im- 
portance, viz. the preparation of our foods, 
and the free circulation of the air we 
breathe. 

§ I. Improper vessels are the causes of 
many diseases, the source or nature of which 
are often not suspected. Much might be 
said, by way of precaution ; but be it suffi- 
cient to say, that all glazed earthen jars in 
which meats, butter, &c. are salted, or 
pickles, preserves are kept ; and all copper, 
tin,- or brass vessels, in which meats are 
dressed, are carefully to be avoided, as con- 
taining aslow poison from different minerals; 
and happily, cast-iron supplies their place, 
and is perfectly innocent. 

§ II. Air we breathe. Our atmosphere 
consists of exhalations of animals, vegeta- 
bles, minerals, and metals, and also of va- 
rious factitious airs, and the electric fluid ; 
arid is more or less impure in proportion to 
the nature and degree of these exhalations.* 
This impurity is increased by various other 
causes, as the fumes of burning fuel, paints, 
flowers, and vegetables, candles, lamps, &c. 
all which taint the air : to which may be 
added, the vapours arising from the human 
body by the breath, perspiration, sweat, and 
other discharges. 

We know, by many experiments, that a 
grown person consumes the vivifying ]$tw? 
ciple of a gallon of air in a minute ; and 



92 ESSAY ON 

« 

hence an immense quantity of renewed air 
is necessary* 

Of the dangerous and even fatal effects 
of stagnant and tainted air, many instances 
are recorded. Not to mention the memo- 
rable instance of the black hole at Calcutta, 
others have occurred some years ago at the 
assizes at Oxford, in the Assembly Itoom at 
Edinburgh, and about fourteen years ago in 
London : of some circumstances of the latter 
I shall take notice. 

Eighteen charity children and a servant 
boy lodged in an apartment of a house in 
King-street ; to make the room warmer 
they shut up every window, . door, and even 
the chimney. All were ill in different 
ways ; some were light-headed, others had 
convulsions, and unless fresh air had been 
admitted immediately, all would soon have 
expired. 

But foul air does not only weaken the 
springs of life, but generates the most ma- 
lignant and contagious diseases, as in camps., 
jails, and hospitals. 

I shall now draw a few precautionary in- 
ferences : 

1st, Wealthy persons ought to inhabit > 
and sleep in lofty large apartments, and 
have all their windows to slide down from 
the top ; and unless the weather be very 
boisterous, to open the upper part of one 
to renew the air frequently. 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 93 

2dly, We spend many hours in bed, 
bathed in a tainted atmosphere of the va- 
pours from our own bodies, and of the 
surrounding air. 

The most neat and delicate person, after 
having slept in a small bed-chamber, does 
not, when he quits it, discover any offen- 
sive smell, but when he returns in a minute 
or two, and before fresh air is admitted, 
he will quickly discern a difference. I have 
already recommended the means of remedy- 
ing this great evil. 

3dly, Chimney-boards are very improper 
at all seasons, they check a free circulation 
of air. 

4thly, Those who regard health will not 
frequent crowded rooms and assemblies : 
When I was at Bath, about to publish an 
Essay on the effects of Noxious Air, one 
of my brethren waggishly told me, " let 
" them alone, Doctor, for how else will 
" twenty-six physicians be able to exist 
" here." 

5thly, Persons labouring under diseases, 
especially fevers, and consumptive coughs, 
should sleep alone, have as few attendant* 
as possible, and have the chamber well ven- 
tilated. 

The following curious and useful fact, 
was ascertained by the ingenious Dr. Ingin- x 
houz, viz. that there is a wonderful pro-? 
perty connected with vegetation: for it 
fcas been found by repeated experiments,. 



94 E6SAY Off 

that all growing vegetables, of even when 
separated from the earth, so long as they 
are exposed to the light of the sun, dis- 
charge a large quantity of an air, or gas, 
purer than the atmosphere we breathe ; and 
which by later chemists (who have totally 
changed chemical phraseology) is termed 
oxygene ; but after sunset, there is, by a 
wonderful process of nature, a large pro- 
portion of impure and noxious gas, now 
termed azotic, exhaled from those very ve- 
getables- . . , . 

From this extraordinary circumstance, I 
shall offer a few admonitions, and precau- 
tions. 

1st, The experiments point out the ad- 
vantage of delicate and invalid persons 
taking their exercise about one, afternoon, 
in shady places, because then and there the 
oxygene exhalation most abounds. 

2tily, Many years before I perused Dr. 
Inginhouz's Experiments, I deemed the 
night air to be noxious ; but I then attri- 
buted it to the dew falling copiously after 
sun-set, especially in hot countries, and in 
hot weather ; and this my conjecture is 
confirmed by- these Experiments; for the 
impure exhalations during the night, and 
the subsequent descent of them in the form 
of dew, must be more or less injurious ; and 
on this principle, some years ago, to the 
Commander of a West India army, and 
more lately, through one of our Ministers, 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 95 

I recommended that night-sentinels should 
be more frequently changed, and be sup- 
plied with watch-coats, whilst on duty, 
even in the West Indies. 

3dly, For the same reason, I a,dvise that 
flower-pots, or such as contain any other 
vegetables, be excluded during the night, 
frpm our sitting or bed-chambers; and I 
am persuaded, that, in Scotland and Ireland 
especially, poor persons are injured by keep- 
ing their winter stock of potatoes in their 
confined huts, where the whole family is 
crowded together. 



96 ESSAY ON 



CHAP. VII. 

Regimen, adapted to Temperament^ Age y .Sex^ 

and Climate. 



r f 



IT will be expected that before I finish 
this part of the Essay, I should make a fewr* 
remarks on the regimen of diet, &c, ( witfi; 
respect to temperament, age, sex, season, > 
and climate. *,o 

Habits. — Before we enter on this subject-,;. » 
I shall offer some general remarks, whicfr 
will be better understood, if the reader will j 
cast his eye over what is said on Habits in ■ 
the Introduction. , v , ; 

1st, I have given the plainest and most: 
simple marks of each, by which there can ; 
be no mistake of any consequence commit— ,- 
ted, in adapting the regimen. 

2dly, If the consideration of the pecu- 
liar habit of body, which depends on age,v 
sex, and climate, is important, as it cer-^ 
tainly is, the following observations may be 
of considerable use to those who set a pro«?t 
per value on health. / > 

3dly, Health is rather relative than ab^ 
solute ; to those therefore who, from con-, 
stitution, irregularity, or former disease^, 
do not enjoy firm health, it will certainly 
be their interest and their duty to use every.! 



REGIMEN AND DIET. 97 

proper means to secure, and even improve 
what remains. 

I cannot take a more proper opportunity 
of illustrating these observations, than by 
mentioning a remarkable circumstance re- 
specting the late Dr. Howard. 

This gentleman, in early youth, was so 
delicate, irritable and tender, that he shi- 
vered at every breeze ; but being a man of 
jreat firmness of mind, and perhaps to qua- 
lify himself for the arduous task he then had 
in prospect, he changed his mode of life en- 
tirely, gave up all animal food and strong 
drink, lived upon milk diet, and by expos- 
ing himself to every season and weather, and 
braving every climate, he at length enjoyed 
firm health, and bore the greatest fatigue, 
and died of an infectious fever he caught 
from a young lady he attended in the ex- 
tremity of Russia, after having been re- 
peatedly exposed to similar infections, with- 
out injury; 

1st, Here we have a singular instance of 
* total change of habit, by an entire change 
in the manner of life. 

2dly, The degree of sensibility, or irri- 
tability, of the nervous system, by which 
the delicate constitution is so strongly 
marked, and which is the least subject to 
change of any other, was, in this case, 
entirely altered ; an evident and very en- 
couraging example of what mighty bene- 
fits may be derived from an appropriate 



$8 ESSAY ON 

fregimen : but I fear few are blessed witli 
the Doctor's fortitude. 

§ 1 . Habits. — Thejirrn implies high health, 
and strong vital powers, and the nervous 
system firm and steady, A person of such 
a constitution, should be plain, simple, but 
plentiful in his diet, as his appetite is 
generally keen ; if he uses a proper degree 
of exercise his digestion will be quick, and 
the expence of nourishment considerable. 
Such persons are apt to rely too much on 
their natural strength, and by indolence or 
excess to fall into dangerous diseases. 

2dly, The delicate are the reverse of the 
former, and the nervous system is weak and 
irritable. Their appetite is generally weak 
and capricious, their digestion slow and 
imperfect, and they are much addicted to 
indolence and inactivity. They ought to 
be peculiarly careful never to oppress their 
stomachs with food, use a moderate quan- 
tity of strong drink, and gradually increase 
their exercise, by which their nerves will 
become less irritable, and more steady, and 
their health more confirmed. 
* 3dly, The sanguine, or such as are florid 
and full of blood, being generally young, 
With a good appetite and quick digestion, 
they should use a great proportion of vege- 
tables in their foods, be very sparing in the 
use of strong drinks, or rather abstain from 
any beside small beer : moderate exercise 



DIEJ AND REGIMEN. * 99 

is to them necessary, but violent may be 
fatal. 

4thly, The phlegmatic have a state of 
nerves opposite to that of the delicate, their 
feelings both of body and mind being rather 
blunt than acute ; a happy habit in our 
present state of trial and probation, where 
equanimity is a signal blessing. As they 
are apt to become corpulent as they advance 
in life, simple diet, with a moderate use 
of animal food with the spicy vegetables, 
a temperate use of strong drink, a very 
moderate degree of sleep, and a conside- 
rable degree* of exercise, will be the best 
means of preventing the diseases of this 
habit. 

5thly, The arid, dry, or lean habit, 
though opposite to the phlegmatic, ap- 
proaches in some nearest to the firm, in 
- others to the delicate, according as the 
nervous system is more or less irritable. 
The ancients termed this the atrabiliary* or 
choleric habit, on the supposition that bile, 
* a hot humour, abounded, and made the 
mind irritable : for their ideas of the influ- 
ence of the nerves were very defective. But 
in this habit this is not always the case ; some 
indeed, are liable to hypochondriacal, rheu- 
matic, and gouty complaints ; whilst others 
enjoy a remarkably good state of health to 
... an advanced age. The fittest regimen for 
: those of this habit, is a liberal use of milk, 
vegetables, and summer fruits, 3, sparing 

h2 



lOO ESSAY ON 

use of high seasoned foods and strong drinks, 
a more than ordinary indulgence In sleep, 
and very moderate, but regular exercise. 
. § II. Age. — Between infancy and the 
decline of life, the body undergoes a variety 
of changes, until the years of forty-five or 
fifty, sooner or later, according to the 
strength or weakness of the original sta- 
mina, and the manner of life led through the 
-different stages of it. 

It is owing to these circumstances that 
the habits are often blended, or even totally 
changed ; as in the very remarkable in- 
stance of the late Doctor Howard, who, 
from being very delicate, became very ro- 
bust . 

And here I may take occasion to remark, 
that it is very much in the power of every 
person, if their infancy and youth are pro- 
perly managed, to form their own consti- 
tutions. 

. I have, in a former chapter, treated on 
the management of infancy and youth. 
With respect to old age ; as persons ad* 
vanced in life retain a part of their original 
Mbit, no great change will be required ; 
**eept that as they advance, they Should 
indulge gradually more in the use of liquid 
animal tooda, strong drinks, and sleep, und 
be more moderate in exercise. . : . i 

§ III. S<?i\— The regimen adapted to the 
sexes must depend partly on their habits, 
Jaut chiefly on their mode of life + a very 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 1<H 

small proportion of females lead a irery 
active and laborious life : what is'saiduiv* 
der the phlegmatic habit, is in general ap- 
plicable to the sedentary; the rules laid 
down under the second habit apply to the 
delicate and invalid. Pregnant women 
(unless some particular circumstances for- 
bid it) should make no alteration in their 
mode of life, even with respect to exercise; 
for I have had many opportunities of ob- 
serving, that the most active women in 
that state have had the most perfect re- 
covery, and the most healthy children : I 
most strenuously advise that no trivial ob- 
jection deprive them of the pleasing task 
of nursing their own infants. 

§IV. Season and Climate.— I join these, 
for very obvious reasons. In the latter end 
of autumn, in winter, and the early part 
of spring; in our climate, the quantity of 
animal food and strong drink should be in- 
creased, and exercise, either without or 
within doors, more steadily pursued: the 
delicate and invalid should be clothed with 
flannel next the body. In summer the pro- 
portion of animal food and strong driak 
should be lessened ; that of vegetables, and 
especially fruits, increased ; the 4^tittity of 
ttrogg drink very much lessened. The die* 
licate and invalid should spend their sum- 
mer in the country, still continuing their 
flannels, though of a thinner texture. 

Extensive experience has peculiarly qua- 



102 ESSAY ON 

lifted me to offer advice to those who pass 
from this to a hot climate. From the hour 
the person embarks, he should begin to 
lessen the quantity of animal food and strong 
drink. If young and florid, he should 
lose blood once or twice within the first 
ten days, and take a moderate dose of salts 
once a week. 

As he approaches the hot latitudes, he 
should clothe with thin flannel next the 
body, and continue it during his residence 
in the climate, changing it twice a week, 
and begin at the same time a large tea 
spoonful of Peruvian bark twice a day, with 
acid of vitriol ; continuing this course for 
six months after he lands. During that 
space of time, he ought to avoid laborious 
exercise in the sun, and the night air, and 
continue his abstemious regimen, avoiding 
costiveness, and using ripe fruits plenti- 
fully. • J1 ' 

As it is to be hoped that the young man 
has had a religious education, let not eitheT 
bad example, or prospect of worldly emo- 
lument, induce him to swerve from his 
principles j or depart from that rectitude of 
conduct, which alone cart secure him' peace 
of conscience here, and happiness here- 
after, 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 103 



CHAP. VIII. 

On what is vulgarly termed Catching Cold. 

IT is said of an old Physician, that 
visiting, a female patient, she told him, she 
had only caught cold: only. Madam, replied 
the old Doctor: what worse could you have 
caught, except the plague ? Though I do 
not always agree with my brethren in their 
aphoristical dogmas, yet, with this opi- 
nion I readily accord; and though the 
consideration of diseases does not come 
within my plan, yet, as whilst I write this 
sentence, I labour under the effects of what 
is termed catching cold, I think I cannot 
employ this chapter to a better purpose, 
than by offering some remarks intelligible 
to every reader ; and I deem myself to be 
peculiarly qualified so to do, when I say, 
that, descended, on the mother's side^ from 
a consumptive family, I have more than 
once been on the verge of a confirmed con- 
sumption, and now suffer by a severe ca- 
tarrhal cough, from the lungs being weak- 
ened by former attacks. 

I have, in a former chapter, taken no- 
tice of the great importance of an equal 
perspiration toward the preservation of 



104 ESSAY OJf 

health ; and shall now enter into a more 
minute consideration of the subject. 

We are told indeed, that certain tribes 
of Indians, by painting their bodies, check, 
or entirely suppress, perspiration, and yet 
are not injured by it. Allowing that by 
this me? *\s the perspiratory vapour may be 
checked *t it is so subtle in its nature, 
that it eauuot be thereby totally suppressed : 
but admitting that it were, the . physiolo- 
gists who hold this opinion, did not per- 
haps recollect, that this important evacua-* 
tion is not confined to the vessels of the 
skin ; but that it takes place from an infiw 
nite number of vessels opening into the 
air-cells of the lungs, and into the cavities 
of the mouth, throat, stomach, and intes- 
tines, to a degree, equal, if not superior, to 
that which passes through the pores of the 
skin. ■'■-■: 

I shall now, briefly, and in plain. 'terms, 
explain how, what is vulgarly and impro^ 
perly termed catching cold, may so affect 
the body as to produce various diseases. - 

The atmosphere, or air, by which our 
bodies are surrounded, and which we 
breathft, is always, especially in our cli-~ 
mate, many degrees colder than the warmth 
of our bodies in health, which, by Fahren-. 
heit's Thermometer, is about ninety-six 
degrees, but which, even in health, may by 
exercise, or other stimulating, or heating 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 105 

* ■ 

causes, be increased so as to produce pro- 
fuse sweat. 

The air, so much colder than the body, 
may, by its sudden action on the surface of 
the body, and inner surface of the lungs, 
check the perspiration, and also impede 
the free circulation of the blood through 
the other superficial vessels*, by which 
means a greater quantity of blood may be 
detained m the organ immediately affected, 
or determined to ; or, as it were, thrown 
upon some other part or organ of the 
body. Hence we can account why expo- 
sure to a cold and damp air may in some 
produce a general fever, in others a sore 
throat, sore eyeg, defluxion on the wind- 
pipe, and the lungs, with cough ; in others 
cholics, looseness, or rheumatism, gout, &c. 
and we can no otherwise account why one 
organ is affected rather than another, than 
by supposing that the patient derives the 
predisposition from their parents, or, ac- 
cording to the vulgar adage, that as a scald 
head is soon broke, the patient has formerly 
been subject to similar attacks. 

I come now more immediately to the 

* Some years ago, a German Physician, perhaps too 
fancifully, alleged that many diseases were owing to am* 
malcuhe floating in the atmosphere. It is, at least, certain 
that our atmosphere is always more or less impure, and 
that some of the noxious matters it suspends may, beside 
the actionof simple cold or moisture,con tribute to produce 
disease ; which is the most probable way of accounting for 
epidemics,or peculiar diseases^pre vailing at certainseasons. 



106 ESSAY ON 

point, and shall illustrate my subject by 
offering two short cases, with some re- 
marks. 

1st, A, of a consumptive family, was 
seized with a severe cough, &c. : without 
neglecting other means, but with litte 
effect, and being on the point of embark- 
ing for a warmer climate for his relief, was ' 
at length entirely relieved by a spare diet, 
the frequent use of a warm bath to the legs, 
but chiefly by drawing frequently into the 
lungs, a moderately warm steam of water , 
and vinegar. 

2d, Not many months ago, I was re- 
quested to visit B, who had been ill of a 
cough for six months, without taking me- 
dical advice. Without any great prospect 
even of mitigating the consumptive symp- 
toms, I only proposed a plan, and, for cer- 
tain reasons, withdrew my gratuitous attend- 
ance ; but was told by one of her Phy- 
sicians, that she was wonderfully relieved by 
the means I advised ; but she desisting, she 
soon after died. I now offer a few remarks. 

A/s case was my own : the simple steam 
of water and vinegar acting as a bath on - 
the whole inner surface of the inflamed/ 
windpipe, and body of the lungs, increased 
the perspiration, and removed the inflam* 
mation and cough, which was its effect or 
symptom, in the same manner as a bath or 
poultice will relieve an inflamed eye ; whilst 
the warm bath to the legs (which would - 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 107 

have been still more effectual had it been a 
whole bath) and the warm drinks, which 1 
acted also as a bath on the inner surface of 
the stomach and bowels, and by sympathy*; 
and secondarily on the kidneys, and even 
on the whole surface of the body, checked 
the defluxion, by restoring, and even in- 
creasing the perspiration into a general, a 
moderate, and beneficial sweat. But there 
is another circumstance in the economy of 
our bodies, which merits the attention of 
the reader. The preservation of health 
depends very much on the discharges from 
the body being regular, and bearing a cer- 
tain proportion to each other. But various 
accidents, sometimes unavoidable, disturb 
this proportion : and the constitution, by 
its innate powers, maty, and sometimes 
does, make up the deficiency of one dis- 
charge, by increase of another. Thus, 
when the perspiration through the small 
vessels of the skin is checked, the deficiency 
is sometimes supplied by a salutary purg- 
ingf, or increased discharge by the kid- 
neys ; and did these, and similar efforts of 
the constitution, take place more frequently, 
we should be less subject to diseases : but 

* See Introduction. 

t Hence I have often seen very good effects from tak- 
ing a table-spoonful of Glauber salts dissolved in a few 
spoonfuls of warm water, in the beginning of what is 
termed a cold, though it may be more properly termed 
a heat, or fever* 



108 RSSAY OK 

to account why such efforts are not more fre- 
quent, would require too extensive a discus- 
sion ; I only mention the important fact. 

Soon after I engaged in the practice of 
my profession, I remarked that medicines 
taken into the stomach were not only dis- 
gusting to many in the act of swallowing, 
but in many cases, uncertain in their ope- 
ration, and especially in slow disorders, and 
I was disappointed by my patients 3 want of 
perseverance. 

This determined me to employ regimen 
and outward applications as extensively as 
possible in the cure of diseases. 

I only mention this circumstance to shew; 
that having studied these means more in- 
tensely, and applied them more frequently; 
than the majority 1 (perhaps any) of my 
brethren, I am better qualified to give some 
useful advice on this very important sub** 
ject, which I shall do after I have offered 
a remark or two on B/s case. 

It is highly probable that the fatal issue 
of her disease, as that of many thousands 
more, who have sunk under consumption; 
proceeded from her neglecting to apply for 
roedical assistance, instead of relymff dm 
the advice of ignorant gossips, each o£ 
whom recommended, perhaps, Bnmfatli&ie 
remedy ; whereas medical men ?know thaft 
they cannot give an absolute assurances »£ 
btaingjaWe tar .cure a cutfinger^ : / ' : - a 
; ., Wiafe. .effect might have resulted* fmut 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 109 

the adoption of my plan earlier, or a steady 
perseverance in it longer, I do not pretend 
to determine; but fatal as the disease is , 
after it has arrived to a certain stage, yet I 
am well assured, that many might be saved, 
if not neglected or mismanaged in the be- 
ginning. 

Convinced of this most important truth, 
I deemed it to be my duty to depart in some 
degree from my plan, by writing this chap- 
ter. 

When a person is in that state of begin- 
ning disease, which is termed " catching 
cold" it is not easy for the most judicious 
physician to determine upon what part of 
the body its force may fall, or how it will 
end. I shall confine myself to that most 
frequent, and most dangerous effect, a ca- 
tarrhal defluxion and cough, which may 
end in a violent and suddenly fatal inflam- 
mation of the lungs, or in a more slow, but 
not less certainly, fatal consumption. 

How do young persons generally manage 
themselves under these circumstances ?-*— 
They go on to eat, drink, and live in every 
cttpect as usual, or if they have any parties 
q£ pleasure to partake, or visits to make 
^specially the young men) they do not ab* 
Main, unless the attack is very severe, and 
thereby becomes a salutary warning and 
restraint. 

But prudent precaution requires a dif- 
ferent conduct • if the Indisposition be but 



r 110 ESSAY ON 

slight, the patient may, for the first twenty- 
: four, or even thirty-six hours, safely trust 
to the following regulations, if rightly 
complied with. 

1st, Abstain from all animal food, even 
broths or soups, and strong drinks, and 
use moderately warm and thin water-gruel 
or panada in frequent and pretty large 
draughts, and lie in bed some hours later 
than usual, applying a jar or bottle of 
warm water to the feet, and one to each 
side, and by keeping quiet, and excluding 
light, endeavour to promote a few hours 
sleep and gentle sweat. If, after an hour, 
sleep does not come on, I have advised 
twenty drops of laudanum, but in the pre- 
sent instance it may be omitted if the pa- 
tient be costive, have a head-ache, or op- 
pression on the breast, until these symptoms 
be removed by proper means directed by the 
medical man. 

Before the patient gets out of bed, let 
the warm bath for the legs (as before de- 
scribed) be prepared and used for an hour 
or more, and if any moisture appear- from 
its use, plenty of warm drink, and the fol- 
lowing steam ; and it will be most prudent 
to return. to bed again, till the -evening, 
when he should use the baths^ drinks, uod 
steam as befpre. ^ 

The steam consists of about half a pi ttt 
(or of a Scotch mutchkin) of hot water, 

a»4 .two table spgonfuis. of ^ineg^vvput. 



DIET AMD REGIMEN. Ill 

into a tea-pot, and the steam drawn in 
with the breath, either by the mouth of the 
pot, or the spout, so long as he feels its 
taste in the mouth, and gentle warmth in 
the breast. When it cools, put the pot and 
liquor into a vessel of boiling water, till it 
is warmed again, and thus use it often, 
even in bed, and when using the bath, and 
at any other time, so as not to interrupt 
sleep : it must not be used so as to be dis- 
agreeably warm in the throat or breast. — 
Simple and perfectly inoffensive as the 
steam, bathing the legs, and the low diet 
are, when used in the beginning, and per- 
severed in for two or three days, they have, 
according to my experience, rescued many 
from diseases which had a threatening as- 
pect, and might have ended fatally. 

In the course of this Treatise, I have 
more than once cautioned the reader against 
delaying to call in medical assistance : if, 
therefore, in the present case I have sup- 
posed, the simple means with the use of 
a flannel waistcoat next the body (only 
till the effects of the cold are quite worn 
off) the patients, after twenty-four or thir- 
ty-six hours continue hot and feverish^ 
with severe dry cough, and fixed pain of 
the side and breast, they will require bleed- 
ing and other evacuations, under medical 
directions. 

But notwithstanding the use of more 
powerful means, I still earnestly recommend 



112 



ESSAY ON 



the continuance of the simple means just 
advised, as very useful assistants, as I have 
experienced for fifty years ; and, surely no 
medical man, of a liberal mind, will ob- 
ject to the adoption of any plan so strenu- 
ously recommended on long experience, 
and supported by strict analogy ; whereas, 
a remedy of powerful, and therefore ha- 
zardous operation, should certainly be 
adopted with caution and jealousy, unless 
the veracity of the recommender be unim- 
peachable. 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 113 



CHAP- IX. 

Chi the Art of Mending Health. 

THE preceding chapters are employed in 
laying down regulations for the preserva- 
tion of health, or, what is nearly the same 
thing, the prevention of diseases; for, 
where health ends, disease begins, though 
the progress from one to the other is some- 
times very sudden, at other times more 
slow. 

The approaches of a disease may be 
sometimes happily arrested or stopped, and 
health restored, and I have in the former 
chapters pointed out the most simple and 
safe means for that purpose ; but I must 
here caution the reader against trusting to 
these means too far, but if they do not 
very soon produce the expected effect, or 
if the disease come on with violence, not a 
minute should be lost, but medical assist- 
ance employed, for it is always more safe 
to err on the side of precaution than of 
delay, as I havettoo often experienced. 

It is a very mistaken opinion, that we can 
support or amend health by any other 
means than by regimen ; for this were to 
suppose that health may be ensured by the 
same means which remove diseases. 



114 ESSAY ON 

In my youth I remember it to have been 
a common practice in this part of the king- 
dom, for crafty knaves to discipline whole 
parishes, every spring and fall, by bleeding, 
purging, and giving them diet drinks. 

What success attended this practice, so 
indiscriminately employed, on every con- 
stitution, and to prevent all diseases, I do not 
remember ; but it is probable that the bills 
of mortality were not thereby lessened. 

In England, Anderson's and James's 
Pills, Daley's Elixir, and other purgatives, 
and supposed sweeteners of the blood, as 
preventive and infallible remedies ; which 
most good housewives closet up as care- 
fully, as the Lady Bountifuls of the last 
age used to lock up their strong cordial 
waters ; and perhaps for purposes not more 
beneficial, or rather less pernicious. 

But I deem it to be my indispensable duty 
earnestly to warn my readers against this 
very injurious, and indeed dangerous prac- 
tice ; especially as it has been countenanced, 
and even recommended, by some medical 
men. I shall here, therefore, very briefly 
give the issue of three cases which now 
occur to my recollection, put of many more 
which, no doubt, have fallen under my no- 
tice, of the dangerous consequences of tam- 
pering with health ; for the purpose of 
preventing disease. 

An intimate friend, in good health, rather 
disposed to be corpulent, and very anxious 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 115 

not only to preserve health, but to prolong 
life ; without consulting me, entered upon 
a course of purgatives, which brought on a 
low fever, which destroyed him : it was 
evident to the other medical men, as well 
9S myself, and indeed he himself was con- 
vinced, that his approaching death was the 
effect of this vile practice. 

A lady, daughter of Dr. Cockburn, an 
eminent physician, and married to a most 
respectable gentleman, suspecting she was 
bilious, was confirmed in the opinion by a 
late fashionable physician, who advised a 
course of purging salts. Being consulted, 
I advised her to go to Bath, insisting on 
her giving up her purges. Her London 
physician was consulted, who visited her 
at raines* Hill, in Surrey, and insisted on 
a renewal of the purgatives, and an ample 
use of lemonade ; and on the morning of 
the second day after, when he was again to 
have visited her and have found her relieved, 
she died severely convulsed. 

Truth is sacred, and ought never to 
be intentionally violated or distorted ; it 
wtmld, therefore, be most uncandid for me 
to imply that a purge was the cause of her 
death; That her disease proceeded from 
the former purging, I had no doubt, but I 
hatd predicted her death, before she took 
the last purgative, and my brother Doctor 
her recovery, by the effects of its operation. 
It will be unnecessary to explain the conr 

12 



116 ESSAY ON 

nexion between this case and the following 
reflection. 

Were the bulk of mankind sufficiently 
aware of the great reverence due to truth, 
and speak and act always in consistency 
with it, much ease, mutual confidence, 
comfort, and happiness, even in this life, 
would be the result. God is truth, and nor- 
thing ought to be more strenuously im- 
pressed on the minds of young persons, 
than the love of truth ; for I have often 
remarked, that an habitual departure from 
it, is the cause, or companion, of other 
vices. 

A lady went to Bath to consult me. She 
had long proceeded from weaker to stronger 
purges, for the purpose of removing cos- 
tiveness, until she was obliged to take the 
strongest, even Gamboge Pills ; and even 
these would soon have failed of effect, and 
a fatal inflammation of the bowels might 
have ensued. The distress from the want 
of her daily purgative was so great, that I 
had much difficulty to persuade her to trust 
solely to the Bath waters in large doses. — 
They so restored her stomach and bowels 
to their former power, that months after 
she wrote me she had not taken more than 
once a mild purge. 

These cases are presented as a warning, 
especially to the delicate, invalid, and se- 
dentary, whose bowels are generally un- 
steady, and who often . labour under some 
slight indisposition, or imagine they do. 



DIET AND REGIMfeN. 117 

I have frequently been consulted by per- 
sons whose bowels have been irregular, and 
so far as I recollect, I believe I have con- 
stantly dissuaded them from the habitual 
\ise of purgatives, and have sometimes men- 
tioned art expedient suggested by the cele- 
brated philosopher Mr. Locke, who was a 
physician, which was, to make an effort once 
or twice a day, and thereby give the bowels 
a habit of relieving themselves ; living 
chiefly on a vegetable diet, fruits especially, 
and using the lead exercise, which is an 
excellent means of strengthening the sto- 
mach, bowels, and kidneys. 



i. . 



A.^ s 



. ^. 



t ; ■ « 



118 ESSJtY 6rf 



Chap. ±. 



~ . * « 

On Fashionable Diseases* 



W ' k 



FASHION,- like ite companion hixurfo 
may be considered as one of those excres- 
eencea which are attached to national im- 
provement ; and whkh so Jar resemble the 
mQss of fruit trees* and the misletoe of the 
oak, as not to. . be always useless, thougn 
often very injurious. 

When one part of a polished nation is 
assiduously engaged in cultivating the arts 
and sciences, another part is not less busily 
employed in the invention and regulation 
of our fashions. 

As societies advance in civilization, the 
active mind of man, not contented with the 
means of gratifying our natural wants, is 
anxiously employed in creating those that 
are artificial, and inventing the means, of 
indulging them. 

The empire of fashion is now become 
universal ; it pervades all ranks, and de- 
grees, from the peer to the footman, and 
from her ladyship to the abigail ; and, as I 
have hinted in a former chapter, luxury has 
kept pace with it. 

When rational beings neglect to cultivate 
the understanding, and amend the heart, 



DIET AND REGIMEN, . 1J9 

they necessarily fail to store them, with the 
proper rules of steady and consistent con?- 
duct in life. Hence their passions take a 
frivolous turn, and their purposes are vain 
and futile. This levity of mind creates a 
fondness for novelty, they fly from object 
to object, and from scene to scene ; and as 
their pursuits are unsubstantial, their enjoy* 
ments must be unsatisfactory*. 

From this reflection on the source of 
what is termed fashion, and of dissipation, 
its companion, I leave the readers to draw, 
if they please, some useful inferences, and 
shall finish this sentence with a brief quota* 
tion from one of our poets, who marked 
the passing scenes of life, with a keen phi- 
losophical eye ; and who, by the wit and 
humour of his ridicule, strongly reprobates 
that rage of fashion, which with many is 

{>redominant through the various periods of 
ife, and intimates that with some it is un- 
happily cherished even at the close of it. 
Alluding to a lady of rank, who painted, 
when that unnatural folly was in fashion ; 
and whom he supposes to be on her death- 
bed, he makes her address her abigail : 

u And, Betty, give this pheek a little red; 

" One would not, sure, be frightful when one's dead." 

Pope. 

I may, I believe, anticipate the observa- 

* Keep thy heart with all diligence; for out of it are 
the issued of life. Prov. iv. 23. 






120 ESSAY ON 

tion of a fashionable lady on what I have 
now fcaid. " What does this impertinent 
" grey-beard mean ? he has attempted to 
" rob us of our dear, gossiping slop, tea; 
" and when we might reasonably expect 
" to meet with his rules for eating, drink- 
" ing, and sleeping comfortably, he pops 
upon us with his saucy remarks upon 
fashions : but he dare not say there is 
either shame or sin, in leading, or fol- 
" lowing the fashion ." 

With great deference; and some degree 
of diffidence, I venture to dissent from her 
Ladyship ; and humbly conceive, that under 
Certain circumstances, it may be both*. But 
without waiting to prove my proposition 
by examples, many of which maybe offered ; 
I proceed to convince the Lady, that 
fashion may at least be a misfortune of no 
small magnitude. 

" When," says her ladyship, " I go 
" to Church, or take up a sermon, I am 
" pfepared to expect grave instruction, 
" and to be put in mind of my latter end ; 
" but is not the old Doctor unseasonable 
" in his sermons?" Not so much so as her 
Ladyship supposes. If she has ever peeped 
into Mr. Locke on the Association of Ideas, 

* Whosoever has read the former parts of this work 
with any degree of attention, will readily confess that im- 
moderate attachment to fashion may be very culpable, in 
so much as it occupies the mind with trifles, and effectu- 
ally creates a disrelish for subjects of real importance* 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 121 

she may conceive, that as one train of them, 
which arises from the contemplation of her 
elegant new robe, will lead her to think of 
the next masquerade ; so another train of. 
ideas may, with equal propriety, warrant 
-my combining the ideas of health, life, and 
death, with an essay on regimen ; and of 
suggesting some hints, which ought never 
to be unseasonable to rational, responsible, 
and mortal beings. 

But to return. Medicine, M adam> as well 
as some other arts, has long been subject to 
the empire of fashion; it has influenced 
the great and the opulent in the choice of 
their Physicians, Surgeons, Apothecaries, 
Midwives ; and even their Nurses and their 
political parties ; but it may not be so ob- 
vious how they may be influenced in the 
choice of their diseases. This I shall endea- 
vour to explain. Patients, real or imaginary, 
are generally prompted by curiosity or 
anxiety, tq inquire of their medical guide, 
" What is my disorder, Doctor ?" But an 
explicit answer to the question is not always 
either convenient or practicable; because 
the Doctor may be sometimes ignorant of 
it himself. Instead therefore, of entering 
on a learned disquisition upon the subject, 
or candidly confessing his ignorance, which 
would not be consistent with good policy, 
he gratifies his patient with a general term, 
which may, or may not, be expressive of 
the nature of the ailment. 



22 ESSAY ON 

Should the evil consist only in her Lady* 
ship's fancy, it would be an unpardonable 
violation of propriety and good manners, 
and contraiy to the Doctor's interest and 
reputation, to throw out the most distant 
hint of its cause or nature. 

If both patient and Doctor are people of 
fashion, this circumstance is alone sufficient 
to render the term fashionable; for, ak 
people of fashion claim an exclusive privi- 
lege of having always something to com- 
plain of ; so the mutual communication of 
their ailments is often the topic of conver- 
sation. The imagination frequently sug- 
gests a similarity of disorder, though none 
such really exists, and thus both disease and 
term soon become completely fashionable : 
hence drams became fashionable. 

In the latter end of the last, and begin- 
ning of this century, spleen, vapours, or hyp> 
was the fashionable disease. 

The Princess, afterwards Queen Anne, 
often chagrined and insulted by her bro- 
ther-in-law, in her former station; and 
perplexed and harrassed by factions in her 
latter, was frequently subject to depression 
of spirits : to alleviate this distressing evil, 
the courtly Physicians, after giving it a 
name, proceeded to prescribe pearl cordial, 
and Raleigh's confection. 

The royal disease and the remedies, like 
the wry neck of another Monarch*, were, by 

* Alexander the Great, '"*■" 



DIET AND ftEGIMEN. 12S 

feouf tly limitation, adopted by all those who 
had the least pretension to rank with per* 
sons of fashion. 

Iii process of time, however, these 
fashidndlMe and palatable shop-cordials be- 
canfte, by Repetition, too weak ; and many 
of the patieftts, tired of the inefficacy, and 
probably of the expence, found a more 
rfeady and more powerful substitute in clo- 
set cordials, and plain Nantz. 

Forty years ago, a treatise on nervous dis- 
eases was published by my quondam very 
ingenious and learned preceptor, Dr. Whytt, 
Professor of Physic at Edinburgh. Before 
the publication of this book, people off 
fashion had not the least notion that they 
hsiA nerves; but a fashionable Apothecary 
having cast his eye over the book, and 
having been often puzzled by the inquiries 
<if his patients concerning the causes and 
nature of their complaints, derived from 
thence a- lucky hint, and told the next 
fashidiiable patient who consulted him, 
c * Madam, you are nervous !" the solution 
was satisfactory, nervous diseases became 
cfuite the ton, and spleen, vapours and hyp, 
Were kieked out of doors. 

SoMfc years after this, Dr. Coe wrote a 
trfettifiie on biliary concretions, which turned 
the tide of fashion : nerves and nervous 
€6ifapMmt& Were almost forgotten, and bili- 
tttes become feshiottable. I know a fashion- 
febte Bdfetor Who aftiuees his patients with 



124 ESSAY OK 

the Greek term Dyspepsia, and indigestion 
may soon supersede bile. 

It will be proper here to apprize my 
readers, that imaginary diseases are often 
converted into real ones, and this is the 
natural consequence of the intimate con- 
nexion between mind and body ; inso- 
much that, as tranquillity of mind contri- 
butes very much to preserve health of body, 
so when it is disordered, the other is 
necessarily affected ; and experience teaches 
us, that there is a strong mutual sympathy 
between them ; and that some of the most 
inveterate, and even fatal, bodily diseases 
originate in the mind. 

Itage, for instance, and fear, have often 
killed like a flash of lightning, and a broken 
heart has brought many more to the gravfe 
than is generally suspected. 

I shall conclude this chapter with a Case 
which will illustrate my meaning more 
readily, than a diffuse dissertation. 

I have already hinted that there are not a 
few persons, " who think jit to be sick by 
" way of amusement, and melancholy to keep 
" up their spirits " To such I would re- 
commend a careful perusal of the late ingfe-* 
nidus Mr. Colman } s farce of the Spleen ; or 
Nezv Joe Miller, or the Tickler, by Mr. 
B arm ant in e. 

A Tradesman's wife from London con- 
sulted me at Bath. Believing that rude 
health was very unfashionable, and about 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 125 

three years before, suspecting that something 
ailed her, she sent for her Apothecary to give 
a name to her disease. After undergoing a 
course of Doctors, regular and irregular, 
and of Apothecaries' Drugs and quack nos- 
trums, during that time ; she was at length 
told she was bilious, and that she ought to 
go to Bath. 

The only benefit this unhappy woman 
seemed to have derived from her. long 
medical discipline, was a broken constitur- 
tion, from the unnecessary and preposterous 
use of drugs, a ruinous expence, and a 
medical jargon, composed of the discordant 
opinions of her quondam Doctors : instead 
of describing her feelings, that I might form 
'gome judgment of her case, she peremp- 
torily told me she was bilious. 

I told her she was not sick of bile, but of 
her Doctors and their physic; and advised 
her to leave off all medicine but the Bath 
water; a long course of which might be of 
use. 

But instead of continuing it for at least 
three months, she quitted Bath in three 
weeks, tired of the experiment, and dis- 
gusted with her Doctor, who pretended to 
cure her by water. 

Thus it is, that wretched hypochondriacs 
ruin their constitutions, and embitter their 
lives, by their perpetual anxiety to preserve 
iloth; and from an unhappy propensity to 
try new Doctors and hew drugs (for they 
cannot be termed remedies.) 



126 essay oar 



CHAP. XI. 



On Lady and Gentlemen Doctors. 

LADY and Gentlemen Doctors, the for- 
-mer especially, are veiy numerous in this 
.kingdom, as medical men well know ; and 
though we consider them as very respect- 
able coadjutors, and very much superior to 
those ignorant venal wretches, termed 
quacks ; yet we are apprehensive, that whilst 
our respectable friends extend their reputa?- 
tiou and practice on one hand, and these 
interloping irregulars, press us on the other, 
•we may soon become totally useless. Under 
this serious alarm, I have, but with becoming 
m deference, undertaken the invidioys task of 
inquiring into those claims which the ladies 
.have -advanced in their characters asPhysi- 
jrians. 

That a lady of genius may acquire, by 
six hours hard study, a degree of medical 
knowledge equal to what a male dunce 
hj the labour <>f as many years, may attain, 
4t would not be very polite to call in quejr- 
ttion; I shall rather pass on to consider 
their avowed motives for .assuming : the mer 
dical character .* 

■* Among the nwt celebrated of the gentlemen Doctors, 
I cannot omit the celebrated Philosophers Lord Verulapi 
and Mr, Boyle, and the Reverend Mr. John Wesley, con- 
cerning whose merits in their medical character, I shall 
hereafter make some Jmpirtial.reaiaikB. 



n i)IET AND REGIMEN. 127 

Among our Gothic ancestors women 
were the chief physicians, though they 
were prohibited from that office by the 
Greeks, I have already expressed my very 
favourable opinion of the abilities of my 
fair sisters, who having from their ances- 
tors* a prescriptive right to the province of 
physic ; they may also hereafter, fill the 
otner academical chairs, with much credit 
to themselves ; that of rhetoric especially. 

In the last century, persons of fortune 
spent much of their time in the country, 
where the Lady Bountifuls of those days 
prepared their family drugs, all infallible, as 
taken from Aristotle's Master-Piece, Cul- 
pepper's midwifery, and Every Man his own 
Physician ; which they not only adminis- 
tered to their patients with their own hands, 
but supplied their other wants. 

But fashions are changed; the former 
Lady Bountifuls are extinct; and though 
the present race of them are not deficient 
in benevolent intention, 4 yet they are in 
assiduity ; and the stable-boy often inter- 
cepts, what the Mistress's kindness intends 
for the sick. 

Lady and Gentlemen Doctors assign* various * 

* We are told in Dr. Henry's History, that even so 
late as the reigns of Henry VII. and VIII. ladies were in- 
structed in Physic and Surgery ; those medical student* 
were of the true Bountiful breed, and very much superior 
to their successors, as, I trust, I shall soon evince. 



128 ESSAY ON" 

reasons, why they arrogate to themselves 
the office of a physician. 

1st, They alledge that, whether they pre- 
scribe for themselves or for others, they di- 
rect nothing but simple things, which, if 
they do no good, cannot do any harm. 

To this plausible allegation it may be 
answered, that if the disease, for which 
they prescribe, has a dangerous tendency ; 
and there are few diseases which have not 
in some degree, precious time may be lost 
by trifling with thedisease ; and by omitting 
to use means sufficiently powerful, the sea- 
son for relief is irretrievably lost, and a 
slight disease may degenerate into a mortal 
malady. 

In this way, I am convinced that thou- 
sands are yearly lost, of which a great pro- 
portion die of that fatal English malady, 
consumption. Instances of this kind occur 
daily to physicians ; who have reason to 
lament that their efforts are unavailing, and 
their art discredited, in consequence of neg- 
lect or mismanagement in the earlier stages 
of the disease, when there was a moral cer- 
tainty of danger being prevented by proper 
management. But that Physicians of this 
description do not always prescribe inoffen- 
sive medicines; I would observe that the 
little books published by Mr. Boyle, and 
Mr. Wesley, the latter especially, are not 
confined to inoffensive prescription, is evi- 
dent from Dr. Hawcs's very judicious re- 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 129 

marks on the Reverend's medical publica- 
tion. The most worthy and respectable 
Mr. Boyle, who had a very general corre- 
spondence, being himself without guile, re- 
ceived from various quarters, and too im- 
plicitly published in his book of receipts, va- 
riety of prescriptions ; and patronized the 
stroaking impostor Greatrix. It must in- 
deed astonish any man who has the least pre- 
tension to medical knowledge, to observe the 
unmerited and absurd encomiums bestowed 
upon mere trifles in that little book of Mr. 
Boyle's. Mr. Wesley's farrago was still 
more reprehensible ; because there was a 
most blameable want of caution, in recom- 
mending some of the most powerful and 
dangerous drugs, in destructive doses. I 
therefore believe and trust that none of 
these prescriptions had ever been adminis- 
tered under the eye of these good men ; 
otherwise it was impossible they could have 
recommended some of them, because of 
their total inefficacy : or others, from the 
great danger, if not fatal effects, of their 
operation. 

2dly, As an apology for keeping closet 
medicines, it has been alledged, that beside' 
its being unsafe to trust to the drugs of 
country Apothecaries, it is proper to have 
them put up in London ; and that Apothe- 
caries swell their extravagant bills, by 
trifling with the patient's aifment. When 
I have been called to a country patient, ths 

K 



130 ESSAY ON 

medical magazine has sometimes been pro- 
duced, and I have been requested to choose 
what was suitable, because no Apothecary 
was employed. But I always disapproved 
of the practice, and advised that if they 
would use their own medicines, they should 
employ a neighbouring Apothecary at au 
annual salary to dispense them in slight 
cases, and gently hinted that the Doctor 
might be almost as good a judge of the case 
as her ladyship, or at least, might be taken 
into consultation to determine whether and 
when it might be right to call in the Phy- 
sician, before it was too late. 

As to the allegations of the selfishness of 
some Apothecaries, and the badness of their 
drugs, a regard to truth will not permit me 
to assert that they are totally unfounded ; 
but I hope, and believe, that they are very 
rare. 

3dly> The high fees of physicians have 
also been complained of, and it has been 
alledged, that in prescribing, the Doctor 
consulted the Apothecary's emolument, 
more than the patient's benefit. 

That the Physician's fees in Great Bri- 
tain are as much too great, as they are too 
low on the Continent of Europe, I have 
ever been of opinion ; but this is partly 
owing to the absurd manner in which the 
different branches of the medical profes- 
sion are blended and confounded in this 
kingdom ; whereas, in all other parts of 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 131 

Europe I have visited, the Physician, Sur- 
geon, and Apothecary, are strictly confined 
to their proper departments. 

In this kingdom the Physician is rarely 
called, except by persons of high rank, and 
very large fortunes, until the patient's case 
be almost desperate, or entirely so ; and as 
too many think the Physician's fee a very 
unnecessary article of expenditure, he is 
often told that he shall be sent for when 
wanted, or consulted at a distance, with- 
out trusting the times of his attendance to 
his own judgment and integrity. Thus he 
is often called in as a screen to the Apothe- 
cary, and a sanction to the relations, the 
latter of whom satisfy themselves that, if 
the patient die, all has been done that 
could be done ; whereas the Doctor often 
knows, that he has been called when nothing 
could be done. 

Hence it is that the foreign physicians, 
notwithstanding their small fees, having 
liberty to attend as often as they please, 
are, in point of emolument, on a par with 
ours, and certainly discharge their duty 
with much more satisfaction and success. 

As to the latter part of the third charge, 
viz. that the Physician prescribes more tor 
the apothecary than the patient, I do most 
solemnly declare that I ever disdained the 
practice as dishonest and dishonourable, 
and have even repelled such a hint with 
due indignation ; but when the reasonable 

k2* 



132 ESSAY OX 

profits from his drugs did not compensate 
:.br the Apothecary's trouble in attendance, 
I have advised the patient to make a pre- 
sent, and I here recommend the same act 
of justice to my readers. 

Before I quitted practice, it had become 
not unfrequent for Apothecaries to lump 
their bills, when few medicines had been 
given : I always set my face against the im- 
position. It is equally illiberal in the me- 
dical man, of whatever rank or denomi- 
nation he may be, to decline making any 
charge, for the sordid purpose of taxing 
the generosity of his patient. 

There are several reasons to be assigned 
why, in this kingdom, the fees of Physici- 
ans are so high. Excepting a very few, 
who have too much employment to do their 
numerous patients sufficient justice, the 
major part are rarely called in until it be 
too late, and rather to save appearances 
than to save the patient. Thus many years 
^elapse before the emoluments of his pro- 
fession are more than (if equal to) suffi- 
cient to support a Physician in the rank of 
a gentleman. If in process of time his 
employment shall become extensive and 
profitable, he is willing to compensate for 
his former loss of time, and to procure a 
decent independency, and a provision for his 
family ; but that the profession is not lu- 
crative, is evident from the small number of 
Physicians who acquire large fortunes., : , 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 133 

Fees ought certainly to be adapted to the 
abilities of the patient, and other circum- 
stances ; and a man of honour and probity 
■will distinguish those circumstances wherein 
he ought to relax in the article of fees. 

Men of fortune, high spirit, and great 
generosity, are very much disposed so to 
gratify the Physician, as, if his disposition 
be. not sordid, he will not accept of, and 
yet it is a very difficult task to refuse on 
such an occasion without giving offence. 

On the other hand, there are many 
whose circumstances, when compared with 
their station of life, enable them to do that 
justice to the Physician, which their nar- 
row spirits incline them to deny him ; 
, such persons do not deserve to be treated 
with any degree of delicacy. Some per- 
sons of a valetudinary habit have acquired 
such an unlucky bias of mind, as never to 
be satisfied without the attendance of the 
Doctor, and a constant course of medicine ; 
an honest man will avoid availing himself 
of this unhappy propensity, and discou- 
. rage it as much as possible. 

Another case . has frequently occurred to 
me, viz. that of persons who, with very li- 
mited incomes, are obliged to support a 
genteel appearance (among whom I wish 
I were not obliged to rank a set of men 
truly respectable by their learning, and 
sacred function) who may often want the 
physician, though not always, able to gra- 



134 ESSAY ON 

tify him in a manner corresponding to their 
inclination, or to established custom. — 
Under such circumstances, a physician of 
a liberal turn of mind will fall upon such 
methods of accommodating his demands 
to the situation of his patients, as shall not 
hurt the delicacy of persons whose feelings 
and sense of propriety, are generally in 
proportion to their education. 

These remarks are offered to the reader, 
from an earnest desire of establishing a firm 
and friendly Confidence between a very use- 
ful order of men, and the liberal part of 
the public, which will redound very much 
to the ease, comfort, and interest of both. 
The late celebrated Dr. Johnson, who 
from a series of ill health, had frequent 
occasions of experiencing the comfort to 
be derived from the skill, assiduity, and 
friendship of medical men, has done the 
profession ample justice ; and I having for 
some years retired from the lucrative part 
of my profession, though not entirely from 
the gratuitous practice of it, do unfeign- 
edly declare, that in no order of men are 
there to be found more numerous instances 
of disinterestedness and liberality, than 
among the physicians of Great Britain. 

It is of great importance to add one or 
two observations more on this interesting 
subject. 

As the powers of the mind are generally 
weakened by disease, patients are very apt 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 135 

to be irresolute and peevish, if their ex- 
pectations of speedy relief are disappoint- 
ed, and become suspicious either of the 
skill, or attention, of the medical man. 

When health, and even life, are at stake, 
too much care cannot be taken in the 
choice of medical men ; but having made 
the choice, they should be entirely con- 
fided in, strictly and implicitly adhering 
to their directions in every circumstance 
that relates to the case : many lives have 
been lost by neglecting this golden rule.— 
If the case should become more urgent, a 
conscientious man will of his own accord 
propose farther assistance in due time ; 
and the person he recommends ought, in 
general, to be preferred, to avoid un- 
toward consequences from opposition or 
disagreement in opinion. 

There are officious persons too often 
about the sick*, who do much mischief, 
either by advising other means, of the 
;ood effects of which they pretend to hav^ 
tad experience, or in recommending a fa-t 
vourite medical man. But such interpo-? 
si tions ought never to be countenanced ; they 
may be hazardous and have been fatal, 

* Of this species of medicasters there are various kinds 
and degrees, from the gentleman and lady doctors, who 
have studied Buchan's Domestic Medicine, or some other 
precious Magazine of medical knowledge, down to the old 
nurse, who can make a shift to spell a recipe in an Eng- 
lish Dispensatory : the intentions of all these good folks 
may be very benevolent! but their advice rpay be followed 
by unfortunate effects. 



136 ESSAY ON 

Another reason assigned by my respect- 
able sisters is, that the^ 1 consult Doctor 
Buchan's Domestic Medicine. The Doctor 
is a fellow of the same college with my- 
self, and I doubt not is a skilful physician, 
and I believe that book might be of some 
use to young apothecaries, as a memoran- 
dum; nor have Ianygraz* objection to the 
good lady of the family amusing herself 
with an occasional inspection of this com- 
pilation, if she be not an imaginary or real 
invalid ; but I must most seriously protest 
against their adopting it as a guide in their 
family practice, and I trust the following 
reasons will be admitted as conclusive. 

1st, Physic, as it is commonly termed, or 
the art of medicine, is both a science and 
an art, of prodigious extent ; for, beside a 
knowledge of the dead languages, geome- 
try, and natural and experimental philo- 
sophy, which are merely introductions, as 
branches of general learning ; the follow- 
ing are essential branches of the science, 
viz. Anatomy ', or an intimate knowledge of 
the human body, and even of some other 
animals whose structure resembles ours ; 
Physiology, or an acquaintance with the 
uses and offices of the different organs or 
parts ; Pathology, which considers the ge- 
neral nature of disease ; Nosology, which 
comprehends the different kinds and varie- 
ties of particular diseases, of which Dr. 
de Sauvages has enumerated near two thou- 
sand, most of which require some differ- 



DIET AND REGIMES* 13/ 

ence in the method of cure, according to 
age, sex, habit, mode of life, season, cli- 
mate, symptoms, and various other cir- 
cumstances, otherwise this minute division 
would have been superfluous and absurd ; 
Chemistry, or the art of decomposing bo- 
dies, especially by means of fire, a very cu- 
rious and extensive study, not merely in 
medicine, but in improving various arts 
and manufactures ; Botany, or the know- 
ledge of those plants, trees, &c. which are, 
or may be hereafter used as remedies ; and 
Pharmacy, or the manner of preparing and 
compounding medicines. 

It may, however, be alledged, that I 
have ostentatiously given a long catalogue 
of requisites, to add importance to my pro- 
fession ; but though I disdain the arts of 
imposition and falsehood, yet if her Lady- 
ship has a learned husband or friend, 
though not a medical man, a very slight 
examination will induce him to confess 
that I have not exaggerated, and that these 
branches are necessary to practice our art 
with safety and success. 

2dly, It may justly be presumed, that 
the Doctor, before he published this vo- 
lume, was possessed of all these branches 
of knowledge, and that it also contains 
the result of his previous education, and 
of his personal experience ; neither of 
which he has, or could, in that work, or 
in many volume's, communicate to his 



138 ESSAY ON 

readers, and therefore, were any of them 
to be ill, they would, I am sure, much 
rather consult the Doctor than his book, 
because his head must necessarily contain 
much more knowledge than that book 
could contain or convey. 

'jdly, Let us suppose that the Doctor has 
described the different kinds of fever, with 
all the accuracy in his power; yet every 
Physician knoM's that no description of a 
disease will enable him, with all his gene- 
ral knowledge, to understand the case by 
report, so well as by personal examination, 
because no language can describe various 
very essential circumstances respecting the 
pulse, the countenance, the eye, the degree 
of heat, the feelings, &c. Hence it is that 
the Physician ought to visit his patient 
often, that he may himself mark the sud- 
den and frequent changes produced in the 
symptoms, or from the effect of the reme- 
dies. But can the Lady Doctor conduct 
such a case when the Physician himself 
would often be puzzled, perplexed, and 
uncertain, what was to be done ? A strong 
case is here supposed, but it is applicable, 
in some degree, to every other. 

Tissot's Avis au Peuple, was many years 
ago published on the same plan in Swit- 
zerland ; but there it was of some use, 
where there are very few medical men, and 
those very remote from eacli other ; but £n 
this country, where, of all denominations, 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 139 

they are as plenty as blackberries / this book 
rarely has had any other effect than to per- 
plex the Lady students, and eventually create 
more for the Apothecaries or perhaps for 
the Physician, and, as always happens in 
ill managed cases, at more hazard and ex- 
pence than if they had been originally con- 
sulted. 

4thly, The old adage, that " a little 
knowledge is a dangerous thing " in no re- 
spect is so applicable as in our art ; and I 
firmly aver, that from no book or books 
did any person, not of the profession, ever 
attain a competent knowledge, so as to act 
medically, with safety ; I therefore offer 
this serious and urgent admonition, that as 
health and life are at stake, my worthy 
countrywomen would quit this dangerous 
medical department, and confine them- 
selves solely to the amiable and most worthy 
office of exercising their humanity and 
goodness, in taking care that the sick be 
regularly supplied with foods or medicine, 
as directed by the medical men, and thereby 
avoid the hazard Of committing a breach of 
the sixth commandment. 

There is a circumstance which humanity, 
and a sense of duty, compel me to recom- 
mend to the very serious consideration of 
my very respectable sisters ; I have known 
some medical men who had a habit of 
announcing great danger in almost every 
case of which they had the direction ; 



140 ESSAY ON 

without enumerating the causes or motives 
for this conduct, which may not be very 
creditable either to their judgment or their 
candour, it is my advice that other assist- 
ance be called in. 

But I had much more urgent motives for 
the following remark : when a medical man 
talks of danger, mercenary nurses and ser- 
vile attendants are generally apt to despair 
of recovery, and become careless and neg- 
ligent in their attention to the sick ; whilst 
the intelligent, superintending friends > will 
see the propriety of redoubling their own 
diligence, and that of the assistants ; for I 
have known many instances of unexpected 
recoveries, especially from fevers, more ow- 
ing to the patient assiduity of attendants 
than to the efficacy of medicine ; arid I sus- 
pect that, on the other hand, many have 
been lost by want of proper regimen and 
nursing. 

The distresses and accumulated evils 
which generally accompany disease, are 
so manifold and great, that in no respect 
can humanity and benevolence be mani- 
fested more properly than by ministering to 
the ease, the accommodation, and the re- 
storation of the sick. So long as they re- 
tain their senses they are able to suggest 
their wants, which ought to be in general, 
gratified, as they are often salutary calls 
of Nature ; but when, by increase of dis- 
ease and of danger, they fall into a delirious 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 141 

or an insensible state, they become the im- 
mediate objects of pity and unceasing care. 
But even should the case become desperate, 
it is certainly an indispensable duty to al- 
leviate the distresses of approaching death 
by every means in our power. Some per- 
sons retain their senses to the last, and die 
without struggle or apparent bodily dis- 
tress ; but I believe the last hours of dying 
persons are more frequently passed in an- 
guish, either frdm pain or oppressive breath- 
ing, or both combined. In such cases, I do, 
from experience, earnestly recommend that 
the mouth and throat be frequently moist- 
ened by some warm softening drink, even 
when it is doubtful whether it is swallowed ; 
but when the anxiety is great, a few drops 
of laudanum, or a tea-spoonful or two of 
syrup of poppies, repeated, may mitigate 
this distressful symptom* 



142 ESSAY OX 



CHAP. XII. 

« 

« 

« 

Regulation of the Appetites and Passions of 

Young Persons. 

FROM the intimate connection between 
mind and body, the regulation of the appe- 
tites and passions forms a necessary part of a 
Treatise on Regimen. 

Were it my intention to offer a disserta- 
tion on the subject, as it is not, I should not 
take either Epictctns or Seneca, or even our 
modern moralists, as my guides ; but should 
prefer the morality of the Gospel as most 
suitable to a Christian reader. 

In tracing the turnings and windings of 
the human heart, I aver that the attentive 
Physician is better qualified than the Popish 
confessor. 

In sickness and in sorrow the mind of 
his patients is generally divested of disguise, 
and even sometimes of prudential conceal- 
, ment ; and after iifty years experience, I 
know that much knowledge, speculative 
and practical, concerning the dispositions 
of mankind, may be obtained by the Phy- 
sician. 

Man, endowed with the faculty of know- 
ing good and evil, is prone to abuse his 
free will. Without enumerating the ma- 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 143 

nifold causes of this propensity, I shall 
only mention one, which is, indeed, a very 
important one, upon which I found my 
admonitions with respect to the education 
of the rising generation, viz. That our ap- 
petites and passions gain an early and danger- 
ous influence over reason and the conscience y 
because we fear self-denial > before we know 
guilt, and are delighted with the dangerous 
pleasure of self -gratification, before we are 
conscious of the exalted nature and value of 
virtue. 

This is the real state of the human race, 
from the birth to what are termed the 
years of discretion, to which, alas! many 
of us never arrive, even at the end of a 
long life. 

There is no particular period for the 
commencement of reason or conscience : I 
have read of what may be termed a pre- 
maturity of understanding, as in the case of 
Barretter and others, and some have fallen 
within my own knowledge, one in my own 
family. By exhibiting these rare pheno- 
mena in his creation, the Supreme Giver of 
all knowledge evinced his power for our in- 
struction. But even in the ordinary dispen- 
sations of his provideiice, it is certain that 
the natural propensities of infants manifest 
themselves earlier than is generally sus-» 
pected. It is therefore absolutely incum- 
bent on those who have the tuition of 
young persons to begin very early, and stea- 



144 ESSAY ON 

dily give the young twigs a right bent and 
direction, and thereby form in them a fixed 
habit of self-denial, long before their rea- 
son is so ripened as to discern the necessity 
and the comfort of salutary restraint. 

The judicious and conscientious parents 
therefore, recollecting their solemn baptismal 
obligations, will not be contented with merely 
watching over the bodily health of their 
offspring, a task dictated by instinctive 
attachment, but anxiously superintend, and 
regulate, the movements of the infant 
mind ; and gently, but firmly, check the 
earliest dawnings of any froward and per- 
verse disposition*. 

My extensive experience in the world 
lias afforded me ample opportunity of re- 
marking the good effects of early culture 
of young minds in some families, and the 
dangerous consequences of the neglect of it 
in others ; and I deem -myself to be duly 
qualified to admonish the tutors of the 
young generation. 

* Various expedients have been fallen upon by parents, 
to habituate t heir children to restraint and disappointment. 
A Lady told me the following anecdote of herself. In her 
: youth she was froward, and moreover fond of pleasure; in 
the latter, her father sometimes gratified her ; but more 
frequently disappoiuted her. When the coach was at the 
door to receive the family, she was ordered to her chamber 
till the rest of the family returned. Thus being never 
certain thather expectations would be gratified, herdesires 
werfe moderated, by being kept in suspence, and thereby* 
weakened and restrained, 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 

It is with pain I make the remark, that 
whilst many parents are anxiously desirous 
of giving their children what is termed a 
liberal education, to qualify them for this 
life ; too few consider the infinitely greater 
importance of that branch of education, by 
which the heart is amended, and the appe- 
tites and passions are subjected to the will 
and law of our Heavenly Father ; which 
he absolutely requires and demands of us as 
our reasonable service. 

These most valuable purposes can only be 
obtained by genuine religion, the general 
principles of which, united with an unde- 
viating adherence to those of pure morality, 
without regard to the peculiarities of sect or 
system *, ought to be early and assiduously 
instilled into their young minds. 

In confirmation of what I have advanced 
I had made appropriate quotations from 
five very eminent men, two of them laymen ; 
four of them have long passed " that 
" bourne from whence no traveller re- 
" turns ;" and though they held different 
religious tenets in some points, yet I trust 
they have all had a gracious acceptance 
with their merciful Judge. 

* Whosoever is tolerably conversant with ecclesiastical 
history, and has even a moderate degree of zeal for the inter- 
est of religion, must lament the manifold sects, and sub- 
divisions of those sects, which have amounted to near two 
hundred. As truth can be but one, and as all appeal to the 
only standard of that truth, the gospel, this circumstance 
ought to make us modest, diffideut, and mutually tolerant. 

L 



146 ESSAY ON DIET AND REGIMEN** 

I have now omitted those quotations, 
not by way of compromise with a very nu- 
merous class to whom they might have been 
offensive (for I could easily have vindicated 
myself from the charge of impropriety and 
inconsistency on this score), and shall sub- 
stitute a clause from the works of a most 
worthy and respectable Pastor of our esta- 
blishment*. " When Paul preached among 
" the Jews at Rome, they departed, and had 
" great reasoning among themselves^. They 
" thought it a question that well deserved 
" the strictest scrutiny, whether the gospel 
" was a cunningly devised fable, or a reve- 
" lation from God. It was thus among 
" Jews arid Heathens. But in our age, 
" and in a country of professed Christians, 
" to speak of Christianity with the least 
" air of seriousness, is, by many, deemed 
" a proof that too much piety hath made 
" us mad." 



* Dr. Erskine's Sermons, page 206. 
t Acts xxviii. 29. 



THE END. 



W. Flint, Printer, Green- Arbour court, Old Bai!*y, Lofton. 



The Publisher respectfully begs leave to acquaint the Pub- 
lic, that all the London' Newspapers continue to be delivered 
through the West End of the Capital, and sent (free of postage) 
to all parts of the United Kingdom, as usual. 

N. B. With orders from the Country, a reference for pay- 
ment to be made in London is requested. 

Annual charge for a daily paper £9 4 

Three days a week 4 *3 

&c. &c. &c. 



NEW PUBLIC A TIONS, 

Printed foe J. Ridgway, 170, Piccadilly, 
opposite Bond-street. 

1. A Treatise on Breeding, Rearing, and Fattening 
Poultry, 9s. in boards. 

2. Statement of a System, under which a Considers^ 
ble Farm is profitably managed in Hertfordshire, by Thomas 
Greg, Esq. 3s. 6d. Fine paper, 5s. 

3. The Spirit of the Public Journals for 1810, being an 

Impartial Selection of the most ingenious Essays and Jeux- 

d'Esprits both in Prose and Verse, which have appeared in the 

Newspapers and other publications. With Explanatory Notes 

and Anecdotes of many of the persons alluded to. 

N. B. All the former vols, may now be had, 7s, each, in 
boards. 



Books recently published, fyc. 

4. A.Help to Parents and Guardians in the Choice of 

Suitable Employments or Trades for Young Persons, according 
to their Views and Rank in Society, 7s. bound. 

" Where Schooling ends, Society begins !" 

5. Lord Erskine's Speeches, on the Liberty of the Press, 

and against Constructive Treason, 4 vols. 

6. Lord Erskine's Speeches on Miscellaneous Subject, 3 
vols. 



4 • 



7h* 






z 



.■**■ ■■ 

V 



■■>£ 



«t 



«w, 



■■■". { 



■ * " v r ■ • I 



*-.., 



. ! ■■flC»A-« 



