v's.V^-.V 



••I'^l^ 



. 'v V 






m. 





WtMUl^a^^ 



WW^' 




^-^) 



I Accessions "Q^:-^ Shelf ^o. 







g^ivk:^ hy 






r/. '!•.'*:■' :'.t^k^ii 



"^c^-^^ 



A^^ 



Beef. 




Jtfutton. 




h 



A 

NEW SYSTEM 



OF 



DOMESTIC COOKERY, 

FORMED VPOIH 

PRINCIPLES OF ECONOMY : 

AND ADAPTED TO THE 

USE OF PRIVATE FAMILIES 

THROUGHOUT THE UNITED STATES. 
BY A LADY. 




"tf^ 



J^EW-YORK.^ 



•SO. 1 CITY-HOTBI. 

Jahn Forbes, printer. 
18U. 



District of New- York, ss. 

Be it Remembered, that on the seventeenth day 

of February, in the thirty-eighth year of the 

independence of the United States of America, 

(l. s.) Robert M'Dermut and Daniel D. Arden of 

the said district, have deposited in this office 

the title of a book, the right whereof they claim 

as proprietors, in the words following, to wit : 

'•A New System of Domestic Cookery; formed 

upon Priacipler, of Economy, and adapted to the Use 

of Private Families throughout the United States. By 

a Lady. 

In conformity to the act of tlie Congress of the Uni- 
ted States, entitled " An Act for the Encouragement of 
Ijcarning, by securing the copies of Maps, Charts, and 
Books to the autiiors and proprietors of such copies, 
during the time therein mentioned." And also to an 
Act, entitled " An Act, supplementary to an Act, en- 
titled an Act for the encouragement of Learning, by 
securing the copies of Maps, Charts, and Books to the 
authors and proprietors of such copies, during the times 
therein mentioned, and extending the benefits thereof 
to the arts of designing, engraving and etching histori- 
cal and other prints." 

THERON RUDD, 
Clerk of the District of New-York. 



i ^ 



MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS 

FOR THE USE OF 

THE MISTRESS OF A FAMILY. 



T. 



HOSE deserve the greatest praise, who best ac- 
quit themselves pi the duties vhich their stations re- 
quire. Indeed, this line of conduct is not a matter of 
choice but of necessity, if we would maintain the dig- 
nity of Our character as rational beings. 

In the variety of female acquirements though domes- 
tic occupations stand not so high in esteem as they for- 
mely did, yet, when neglected, they produce much hu- 
man miseiy. There was a time when ladies knew no- 
thing beyond their own family concerns ; but in the-pre- 
sent day there are many who know nothing about them. 
Each of these extremes should be avoided : but is there 
no way to unite, in the female character, cultivation of 
talents and habits of usefulness ? Happily there are still 
great numbers in every situation, whose example proves 
that this is possible. Instances may be found of ladies 
in the higher walks of life, who condescend to examine 
the accounts of their house-stevrard ; and, by overlook- 
ing and wisely directing the expenditure of that part of* 
their husband's income which falls under their own in 
spection, avoid the inconveniencies of embarrassed cir- 
cumstances. How much more necessai y, then is domes^ 
tic knowledge in those whose limited fortunes press on 
their attention considerations of the strictest economy ! 
There ought to be a material dilTerence in the degree of 
care Avhich a pei-son of a large and independent estate 
bestoAvs on money-concerns, and that of a person in con- 
fined circumstances : yet both may very com mend ably 
employ some portion of their time and tlieughts on this 
subject. The custom of the times tends to prevent or to 
abolish the distinction of ranks : and the education given 



to joiiTig people, is nearly the same in all : but lliougH 
the leisure of the fashionable may be devoted to differ- 
ent accomplishments, the pursuits of those in a middle 
line, if less ornamental, would better secure their o^\n 
liappiners and that of others connected with them. Ys'e 
sometimes bring up children in a manner calculated ra- 
ther to fit them for the station we wish, than that which 
it is likely they will actually possess : and it is in all 
eases worth the while ofparents to consider whether the 
expectations or hope of raisino: their offspring abov& 
their o\rn situation be well-founded. 

The cultivation of the understanding and disposition,, 
however, is not here alluded to ; for a judicious improve- 
ment of both, united to firm and early-taught religious 
principles, would enable the happy possessor of these 
advantages to act well on all occasions ; nor would 
young ladies find domestic knowledge a burthen, or in- 
consistent with higher attainments, if the rudiments of it 
were inculcated at a tender age, when activity is 
so pleasing. If employment be tiresome to a healthy 
child the fault must be traced to habits which, from 
many causes, are not at present favourable to the fu- 
ture conduct of women. It frequently happens, that 
before impressions of duty are made on the mind, or- 
namental education commences; and it ever after takes 
the lead ; thus, what should be only the embellisliment 
becomes the main business of life. There is no oppor- 
tunity of attaining a knowledge of family management 
at school; and during vacations, all subjects that 
might interfere with amusements are avoided. 

When a girl whose family moves in the higher circles 
of life, returns to reside at her father's house after com- 
pleting her education, her introduction to the gay world, 
and a continued course of pleasures, persuade her at 
once that she was born to be the ornameiit of a fashion- 
able circle, rather than to stoop (as she wouM con- 
ceive it) to undertake the arrangement of a family, 
though by that means she mi»ht m various ways aug- 
nie-^t the satisfaction and comfort of her par"j;ts. On 
4}ie Qther hand, persons of ait inferior sphere, and es- 



iii 

peciallj in the lower orders of middling life, are almost 
always anxious to give their children such advantages 
of education as themselves did not possess. Whether 
their indulgence be productive of the happiness so 
kindly aimed at, niust be judged by the effects, which 
arc not very favourable, if what has been taught has 
not produced humility it. herself, and increased grati- 
tude and respect to the authors of her being. Were a 
young woman brought to relish home society, and the 
calm delights of agreeable occupation, before she en- 
tered into the delusive scenes of pleasure, presented by 
theatres and other dissipations, it is probable she would 
soon make a comparison much in favour of the former, 
espesially if restraint did not give to the latter addition- 
al relish. 

If we carry on our observ-ations to married life, we 
shall find a life of employment to be the source of un- 
numbered pleasures. To attend to the nursing, and ear- 
ly instruction of children, and rear a healthy progeny in 
tLe wa} s of piety and usefulness : — to preside over the 
family, and regulate the income allotted to its mainte- 
nance : to make home the sweet refuge of a husband fa- 
tigued by intercourse with ajarrii'gworld : to be his en- 
lightened companion and the chosen friend of his heart : 
these, these are woman's duties ! and delightful ones they 
are, if h ply she be married to a man whose soul can du* 
ly estimate her worth, and who will bring his share to 
the com.mon stock of felicity. Of such a woman one 
may truly say, " Happy the man who can call her his 
wife. Blessed are the children who call her mother." 

W hen we tiius observe her, exercising her activity 
and best abilities in appropriate cares and increasing 
excellence are we not ready to say, she is the agent for 
good of that benevolent Being, who placed her on earth 
to fulfil such sacred obligations, not to waste the talents 
committed to her charge ? 

When it is thus evident that the high intellectual at- 
tainments may fi'id exercise in the multifarious occupa- 
tions of the daughter, the wife, the mother, and the 
mistress of the house, can any one urge that the fC" 
A 2 



IV 

male raiad is contracted by domestic employ ? It is 
however a great comfort that the duties of life are with- 
in the reach of humbler abilities, and that she whose 
chief aim is to fulfil them, will rarely ever fail to ac- 
quit herself well. United with, and perhaps crown- 
ing all the virtues of the female character, is that 
"well-directed ductility of mind, which occasionally 
bends its attention to the smaller objects of life, know- 
ing them to be often scarcely less essential than the 
greater. 

Hence the direction of a table is no incoasiderable 
branch of a lady's concern, as it involves judgment 
in expenditure ; respectability of appearance ; and the 
comfort of her husband and those who partake their 
Tiospitality. 

The mode of covering the table differs in tasie. It 
is not the multiplicity of things, but the choice, the 
dressing, and the neat pleasing look of the whole, 
'isrhich gives respectability to her who presides. Too 
much, or too little dinners are extremes not uncom- 
mon : the latter is in appearance and reality the effort 
of poverty or penuriousness to be genteel: and th? 
former, if constantly given, may endanger the circum^ 
stances of those Vho are not aiiluent. 

Perhsq^s there are few incidents in which the respec- 
tability of a man is more immediately felt than the style 
of dinner to which he accidentally may bring liomc a 
visitor. Every one is to live as he can adord, and the 
meal of the tradesman ought not to emulate the enter- 
tainments of the higher classes, but if two or three dishes 
are well served, with the usual sauces, the table-linen 
Olean, the small sidelward nea'Jy hid, and all tliat is 
accessary be at hand, the expectation of the husband 
and friend will be gratified, because no irrciiularity of 
domestic arrangemen': will disturb the social intercourse. 
The same observation fn.lds good on a larger scale. la 
all situations of life, the entertaimnent should be no less 
suited to the station, tlian to the fortune of the enlcrtauv- 
cr, and to the number an<l rank of those iivitcd. 

Tke ©.saiocr of curving is not only a very nccegsary 



branch of information, to enable a lady to do the hcnoum 
of her table, but makes a considerable dlilereuce iu the 
consumption of a family ; and though in large parties 
she is so much assisted as to render this knowledge ap- 
parently of less consequence, yet she must at times feel 
the deficiency; and should net fail to acquaint herself 
vith an attainment, the advantage of whicli is evident 
every day. 

Some people haggle nieat so much, as not to be able 
to help half-a-dozen persons decently from a large 
tongue, or a sirloin of beef; and the dish goes away v/itb 
the appearance of having been gnawed by dogs. If the 
daughters of the family Avere to take the head of the 
table under the direction of their mother, they -would 
fulfil its duties -with grace, in the same easy manner as 
an early practice in other domestic affairs gradually fits 
llicm for their own future houses. Practice only can 
make good carvers ; but some principal directions are 
hereafter given, with a reference to the annexed plates* 

The mistress of a family should always i-emembei*^ 
that the welfare and good managen)ent of the house de- 
pend n the eye of the superior ; and consequently that 
nothing is too trihlngfor her notice, wliereby waste may 
be avoided ; and this attention is of more importance 
BOW that the price of evoiy necessaiy of life is increased 
to an enormous degree. 

If a lady has never been accustomed, while single, to 
think of family management, let her not upon that ac- 
count fear that she cannot attain it ; she may consult 
others who are more experienced, and acquaint herself 
with the necessary quantities of the several articles ofr 
family expenditure, in proportion to the number it con- 
bists of, the proper prices to pay, <^:c. &c. 

A minute account of the annual income, and the times 
of payment, should be taken iu w riting ; likeAvise an es- 
timate of the supposed amount of each article of expense ; 
and those who are early accustomed to calculations oa 
domestic articles, will acquire so accurate a knowledge 
of what their establishment requires, as will give theni 
the happy medium between prodigality and parsiaiony,. 
without acquiring the character of mearmess. 



J^crhaps few branches of female education are so use- 
ful, as great readiness at figures. Accounts should be 
reguiail) kept, and not the smallest article omitted to 
be entered ; and if balanced every week and month, <fec. 
the income and outgoings will be ascertained with faci- 
lity, and their proportions to each other be duly obsirr- 
ed. Some people fix on stated sums to be appropriated 
to each ditlerent article, and keep the money in separate 
purses; as house, clot* es, pocket, education of children, 
&c. Whichever way accounts be entered, a certain 
mode should be adopted and strictly adhered to. Many 
women are unfortunately ignorant of the state of their 
husband's income ; and others are only made acquainted 
with it, when some speculative project, or profitable 
transact 00, leads them to make a false estimate of what 
can be afibrded ; and it too often happens that both par- 
ties, far from consulting each other, squander money in 
ways that they would even wish to forget: whereas 
marriage should be a state of mutual and perfect confi- 
dence, and similarity of pursuits, v> hich would secure 
that happiness it was intended to bestow. 

There are so many valuable women Avho excel as 
wives, that it is a fair inference there would be few ex- 
travagant ones, v.ere they consulted by tlieir husbands 
on subjects that concern the mutual interest of both par- 
ties. Many families have been reduced to poverty by 
the want of openness in the man on the subject of his 
affairs; and thougl) on these occasions the women were 
blamed, it has afterwards appeared, ih^.t they never 
were allowed a voice of inquiry, or sufiered to reason 
upon what sometimes appeared to them imprudent. 

Many families have owed their prosperity full as 
much to the propriety of female management as to the 
knowledge and activity of the father. 

The lady of a general oflicer observed to her cook, 
that her last weekly bill was higher than usual. Some 
excuse was offered; — to which she replied : — " Such is 
the sum T have allotted to house-keeping : — shouM it be 
exceeded one week, the next must repay it. The gen- 



cral l^ill have no public day this ^vecli." The fault 
Mas uever repeated. 

Kcady money should be paid for ail such tljin^s as 
come not into weekly bills, and even for them a check 
is necessary. The best places for purchasing should 
be attended to. Those who pay best are usually best 
served. Under the idea of bu^inz cheap, many goto 
new shops, but it is safest to deal with people of esta- 
blished credit, who do not dispose of goods by undersel- 
line^. 

To make tradesmen wait for their money injures them 
greatly, besides that a higher price must be paid, and in 
long bills, articles never bought are often charged. Per- 
haps the irregularity and failure of payment, may have 
much evil influence on the price of various articles, and 
may contribute to the destruction of many families, from 
the highest to the lowest. 

Thus regularly conducted, the exact state of money 
affairs will be known with ease : for it is delay of pay- 
ment that occasions confusion. A common-place book 
should be always at hand, in which to enter such hints 
of useful knowledge, and other observations as are given 
by sensible experienced people. Want of attention to 
what is advised, or supposing things too minute to be 
worth hearing, are the causes why so much ignorance^ 
prevails on necessary subjects, among those who are not 
backward in frivolous ones. 

It is very necessary for a woman to be informed of 
the prices and goodness of all articles in common use, 
and of the best times, as well as places, for purchasing 
them. She should also be acquainted with the compa- 
rative prices cf pi-ovisions, in order that she may bo 
able to substitute those that are m.ost reasonable, whea 
they Vi'ill answer as well for others of the same kind, but 
which are more costl}'. A false notion of economy 
leads many to purchase as bargains, Avhat is not wanted, 
and sometimes never is used. "Were this error avoided, 
more money would remain for other purposes. It is 
not unusual among dealers to put off a larger quantity 
of goods, by assurances that they are advancing in price ;, 



vm 

and many who supply fancy articles are so successful 
in persuasion, tliat purchasers not unfrequently go far 
bejond their original intention, even to their own fu- 
ture disquiet. Some things are better for keeping, and 
being in constant consumption, should be laid in accord- 
ingl} ; such as coffee, tea, sugar, soap, and candles. Of 
these more hereafter. 

To give unvarying rules cannot be attempted ; for 
people ought to form their conduct on their circum- 
stances, but it is presumed that a judicious arrangement 
according to them, will be found equally advantageous 
to all. The minutiae of management must be regulated 
by every one's fortune and situation; some ladies, 
charge themselves with giving out, once in a month, to 
a superintending servant, such quantities of household 
articles, as by observation and calculation they know to 
be sufTicient, reserving for their own key the large stock 
of things usually laid in for very large families in the 
country. Should there be several more visitors than 
usual, they can easily account for increase of consump- 
tion, and vice versa. Such a degree of judgment will 
be respectable even in the eye of domestics, if they are 
not interested in the ignorance of their employers ; and 
if they are, their services v>^ill not compensate for vrant 
of honesty. 

When young ladies marry, they frequently continue 
their own maid in the capacity of house-keeper; who, 
as they may be more attached to their interest than 
strangers, become very valuable servants. To such, the 
economical observations in this work will be as useful 
as the cookery; and it is recommendable in them to be 
strictly observant of both, wliich in the course of a year 
or two, will make them familiar in the practice. 

It is much to be feared, that for the waste of many of 
the good things that God has given for our use, not abuse, 
the mistress and servants of great houses will hereafter 
be called to a strict account. 

Some part of every person's fortune should be devo- 
ted to charity ; by which " a pious woman will build up 
her house before God, while she that is foolish (?. e.) 



IX 

lends nothing to theLord), pulls it down with her 
hands." ISo one can complain of the number, or ol the 
want of gifts to the poor ia this country : — but ti,e e is 
a mode of relief which would add greatly to their com- 
fort, and which being prepared from superfluity, and 
such materials as are oft<^n thrown away, the expense 
would not be felt. In the latter part of this work some 
hints for preparing the above are given. 

By good hours, especially early breakfast, a fimily is 
more regular, and much time is saved. If orders be given 
soon in the morning, there will be more time to execute 
them ; and servants, by doing tlieir work with ease, will 
be more equal to it, and fewer will be necessary. 

It is worthy of notice that the general expense will 
be reduced, and much time saved, if every thing be kept 
in its proper place, applied to its proper use, and mend- 
ed, when the nature of the accident will allow as soon 
as broken. 

If the economy of time was duly considered, the use- 
ful affairs transpxted before amusements were allo\sed, 
and a regular plan of employment was daily laid down, 
a great deal might be done without hurry or fatigue; 
and it would be a most pleasant retrospect at the end 
of the year, were it possible to enumerate all the valu- 
able acquirements made, and the good actions perform- 
ed by an active woman. 

If the subject of servants be thought ill-timed in a 
book upon family arrangement, it must be by those who 
do not recollect that the regularity and good manage- 
ment of the heads will be insufficient, if not seconded by 
those who are to execute orders. It behoves every per- 
son to be extremely careful whom he takes into his ser- 
vice ; to be very minute in investigating the character, 
and equally cautious and scrupulously just in gi\ang one 
to others. Were this attended to, many bad people 
would be incapacitated for doing mischief, by abusing 
the trust reposed in them. It may be fairly asserted 
that the robbery, or waste, which is but a milder epithet 
for the unfaithfulness of a sei-vant, ^rill be laid to the 
charge of that master or mistress, who knowing, or ha- 



Ting ■well-founded suspicioDs of such faults, is prevailed 
upon by false pity, or entreaty, to slide him into jmolher 
place. There are, however, some who are unfortunate- 
ly capricious, and often refuse to give a character be- 
cause they are displeased that a servant leaves their 
service : but tliis is unpardonable, and an absolute rob- 
bery, servants having no inheritance, and depending on 
their fair name for employment. To refuse countenance 
to the evil, and to encourage the good servant, are ac- 
tions due to societ} at large; and such as are honest, 
frugal, and attentive to their duties, should be liberally 
rewarded, which would encourage merit, and inspire 
servants with zeal to acquit themselves. 

It may be proper to observe that a retributive justice 
usually marks persons in that station sooner or latter, 
even in this world. The extravagant and idle in servi- 
tude, are ill prepared for the industry and sobriety ou 
which their own future welfare so essentially depends. 
Their faults, and the attendant punishment, come home 
^vhen they have children of their own ; and sometimes 
much sooner. They will see their own folly and wick- 
edness perpetuatevl in their offspring, •< horn they must 
not expect to be better than the example and instruction 
given by themselves. 

It was the observation of a sensible and experienced 
"woman, that she could always read the fate of her ser- 
vants who married ; those who had been faithful and 
industrious in her service, continued their good habits 
in their own families, and became respectable members 
of the community : — those Avho were the contrary, 
never were successful, and not unfrequently were re- 
duced to the parish. 

A proper quantity of household articles should be 
always ready, and more bought fn before the others be 
consumed, to prevent inconvenience, especiall}' in the 
countr}'. 

A bill of parcels and receipt should be required, evea 
if the money be paid at the time of purchase : and, to 
avoid mistakes, let the goods he compared with tliese 
yrhen brought home. 



xl 

Though it is very disagreeable to suspect aay one's 
honesty, and perhaps mistakes have been unintentional : 
yet it is prudent to weigh meat, sugars, Arc. when brought 
in, and compare with the charge. The butcher should 
be ordered to send the weight with the meat, and the cook 
to file these checks, to be examined when the weekly 
bill shall be delivered. 

Much trouble and irregularity ai'e saved when there 
is company, if servants are required to prepare the 
table and sideboard in similar order daily. 

All things likely to be Mauted should be in readiness ; 
sugars of different qualities kept broken, currants wash- 
ed, picked, and perfectly dry ; spices pounded, and kept 
in very small b ttles closely corked; not more than 
will be used in four or five weeks should be pounded 
at a time. Much less is necessary than when boiled 
■whole in gravies, &c. 

Where noonings or suppers are served (and in every 
house some preparation is necessary for accidental vi- 
sitors), care should be taken to have such things in 
readiness as are proper for either, a list of several u ill 
be subjoined, a change of which may be agreeable, and 
if duly managed will be attended Avith little expense 
and match convenience. 

A ticket should be exchanged for every loaf of bread, 
which when returned will show the number to be paid'^ 
for ; as tallies may be altered unless one is kept by 
each party. 

Those who are sensed with brewer's beer, or any 
other articles not paid for v,eekly or on delivery, 
should keep a book for entering the dates; which will 
not only serve to prevent overcharges, but will show the 
whole year's corasumption at one view. 

An inventory of furniture, linen, and china should be 
kept and the things examined by it twice a-year, or oft- 
ener, if there be a change of servants; into each of whose 
care the articles used by him or her, should be entrust- 
ed, with a list as is done with plRte. Tickets of parch- 
ment with the family name, numbered, and specifying 
what bed it belongs to, should be sewed on each feather- 

B 



Xll 

bc\l, bolbter, pillow and blanket. Knives,, forks, and 
house-cloths, are often deficient : these accidents might 
be ob\ lated, if an article at the head of everj list re- 
quire:! the former should be produced whole or broken, 
aud (lie marked part of the linen, thou;2,h all the others 
should be worn out. Those who wish for trifle dishes 
butter-fetands, &c. at a lower charge than cut glass, may 
buy lliem made in moulds, of which there is a great va- 
riety that look extremely well, if not placed near the 
more bfautiful articles. 

The price of starch depends upon that of flour; the 
best will keep good in a dry warm room for some years ; 
therefore when bread is cheap it may be bought to ad- 
vantage, and covered close. 

Sugars being an article of considerable expense in all 
families, the purchase demands particular attention. The 
clieapest docs not go so far as that more refined; and 
there is difference even in the degree of sweetness. The 
vAuie should be chosen that is close, heavy, and shining. 
The best sort of brown has a bright gravelly look, and 
it is often to be bought pure as imported. East India sugars 
are finer for the price, but not so strong, consequently 
iinfit for wines and sweetmeats, but do well for common 
purposes, if good of their kind. To prepare white su- 
j^ar, pounded, rolling it with a bottle, and sifting, wastes 
less than a mortar. 

Candles made in cool weather are best; and when 
their price and that of soap, which rise and fidl toge- 
ther, is likely to be higher, it will be prudent to lay 
in the stock of both. This ii formation the chandler can 
always give: they are better for keeping eiglit or tea 
months, and will not injure for two years, if properly 
placed in the cod : and there are few articles that bet- 
ter deserve care iu buying, and allowing a due quantity 
of, according to the size of the family. 

Paper by keeping, improves in quality : aud if 
bought by half or whole reams from large dealers, will 
be much cheaper than purchased by the quire. The 
surprising incrf^se of the price of this article may be 
accounted for by the increased consuajption, and the 



Xlll 

■want cf rags ; of the latter there is a great scarcity, 
^ihich ni%ht be obviated if an order were given to a ser- 
vant in everj- family to keep a bag to receive all the 
■waste bits from cuttings- out, S:c. 

JMany well-meaning servants are ignorant of the best 
means of managing, and thereby waste as much as would 
maintain a small family, besides causing the mistress of 
the house much chagrin by their irregularity ; and many 
families, from a want of metliod, have the appearance of 
chance rather than of regular system. To avoid this, 
the following hints may be useful as well as econo- 
niical : — 

Every article shonld be kept in that place best suited 
to it, as much waste may thereb} be avoided, viz. 

Vegetables will keep best on a stone floor if the air be 
excluded. — Meat in a cold dry place. — Sugar and sweet 
meats require a dry place ,' so does salt. — Candles cold, 
but not damp. — Dried meats, hams, <fcc. the same. All 
sorts of seeds for puddings, rice, ^c. should be close 
covered to preserve from insects ; but that will not pre^ 
vent it, if long kept. 

Bread is in cities so heavy an article of expense, th^ 
all waste should be guarded against ; and having it cut- 
in the room will tend much to prevent it. It should 
not be cut until a day old. Earthen pans and covers- 
keep it best. 

Straw to lay apples on should be quite dry, to prevent 
a musty taste. 

Large pears should be tied up by the stalk. 

Basil, savouiy, or knotted majoram, or thyme, to be 
used w hen herbs are ordered ; but with discretion, as 
they are ver^' pungent. 

The best means to preserve blankets from moths is to' 
fold and lay them under the feather-beds that are in use ;■ 
and they should be shaken occasionally. When soil- 
ed, they should be washed, not scoured. 

Soda, by softening the water, saves a great deal of 
soap. It should be melted in a large jug of water, some of 
■which pour into the tubs and boiler ; and when the la- 
ther becomes weak, add more. Soft soap is, if proper- 



X17 

ly used, a saving of near half in quantity; which re- 
duces the price of cashing considerably. 

Many good laundrcssts advise soaping linen in ■warm 
water the night previous to ^vashing, as facilitating the 
operation ^vith less friction. 

Soap should be cut with a vire or twine, in pieces 
that will make a long square when first brought in, and 
kept out of the air two or three weeks ; for if it dry quick 
it will crack, and when wet, break. Put it on a shelf, 
leaving a space between, and let it grow hard gradually. 
Thus, it will save a full third in the consumption. 

Some of the lemons and oranges used for juice should 
be pared first to preserve the peel dry ; some should be 
halved, and when squeezed, the pulp cut out, and the 
outsides dried for grating. If for boiling in any liquid, 
the first way is best. When these fruits are cheap, a 
proper quantity should be bought and prepared as above 
di ected, especially by those who live in the country, 
where they cannot always be had ; and they are perpetu- 
ally wanted in cookery. 

When whites of eggs are used for jelly, or other pur- 
poses, contrive to have pudding, custard, &c. to era- 
ploy the yolks also. Should you not want them for 
several hours, beat them up with a little water, and put 
them in a cool place, or they will be hardened and use- 
less. It was a mistake of old, to think that the whites 
made cakes and pudding heav^-; on the contraiy if beat- 
en long and separately, they contribute greatly to give 
lightness, are an advantage to paste, and make a pretty 
dish beaten with fruit to £et in cream, &:c. 

If copper utensils be used in the kitchen, the cook 
should be charged to be very careful not to let the tin be 
rubbed off; and to have them fresh done when tlie least 
defect appears, and never to put by any soup, gravy &c. 
in them or any metal nt^^nsil ; stone and earthen vessels 
should be provided for those purposes, as likewise 
plenty of common dishes, that tlie tablo set may not be 
used to put by cold meat. Tin veesels if kept damp, soon 
rust, which cnij?o«; jioles. Fenders and tin linings of floAV- 
er-pots, &c. should be paiutcd every year or two. 



XT 

Vegetables soon sour, and corrode metals and glazed 
red V are, by v hich a strong poison is produced. Some 
years ago, the death of seAeral gentlemen was occasion- 
ed b} the cook sending a ragout to table, w hich she had 
kept from the preceding day in a copper vessel badly 
tinned. 

Vinegar, by its acidity, does the same, the glazing be- 
ing of lead or arsenic. 

To cool liquors in hot weather, dip a cloth in cold wa- 
ter, and wrap it round the bottle tAvo or three times, then 
place it in the sun; renew the process once or twice. 

The best way of scalding fi-uits, or boiling vinegar, 
is m a stone jar on a hot iron hearth ; or by putting the 
vessel into a saucepan of water, called a water-bath. 

If chocolate, coffee, jelly, gixiel, bark, <tc. be suffer- 
ed to boil over the strength is lost. 

The cook should be encouraged to be careful of 
wood, coals and cinders : for the latter' there is a new 
contrivance to sift, without dispersing the dust of the ash- 
es, by means cf a covered tin bucket. 

The cook should be charged to take care of jellybags, 
tapes for the collared things, Sec. which if not perfectly 
scalded and kept dry, give an unpleasant flavour when 
next used. 

Cold water thrown on cast iron, when hot, will cause 
it to crack. 

In the follow ing and indeed all other receipts, though 
the quantities may be as accurately directed as possible, 
yet much must be left to the discretion of the persoa 
who uses them. The different tastes of people require 
more or less of the flavour of spices, salt, garlic butter, 
&c. which can never be ordered by general rules ; and 
if the cook has not a good taste, and attention to that of 
her employers, no4 all the ingredients which nature and 
art can furnish will give exquisite flavour to her dishes. 
The proper article should be at hand, and she must pra-^ 
portion them until the true zest be obtaLaed, and a variety 
«f flavour, be given to the different dishes served at the*- 
same time. 

Those who require raaigre dishes will find abundance - 
m. this little work ; and where they are not strictly so,. . 
B 2 



by suet or bacou being directed into stuffings, the cook 
must use butter instead ; and ivhere meat gravies (or 
stock as they are called) are ordered those made offish 
must be adopted. 



DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. 

The carving-knife for a lady should be light, and of 
a middling size and fine edge. Strength is less required 
than address, in the manner of using it : and to facilitate 
this, the cook should give orders to the butcher to di- 
vide the joints of the bones of all carcase-joints of mut- 
ton, lamb, and veal (such as neck, breast, and loin) ; 
iThich may then be easily cut into thin slices attached 
to the adjoining bones. If the whole of the meat be- 
longing to each bone should be too thick, a small slice 
may be taken olT between every two bones. 

The more fleshy joints (as fillet of veal, leg, or saddle 
of mutton and beef) are to be helped in thin slices, neat- 
ly cut and smooth ; observing to let the knife pass down 
to the bone in the mutton and beef joints. 

The dish should not be too far off the carver ; as it 
gives an awkward appearance, and makes the task more 
difficult. Attention is to be paid to help every one to a 
part of such articles as are considered the best. 

In helping fish, take care not to break the flakes ; 
which in cod and very fresh salmon are large, and con- 
tribute much to the beauty of its appearance. A fish- 
knife, not being sharp, divides it best on this account. 
Help a part of the roe, milt, or liver, to each person. 

The heads of carp, parts of those of cod and salmon, 
sounds of cod, and fins of turbot, are likewise esteemed 
niceties, and are to be attended to accordingly. 

In cutting up any wild fowl, duck, goose, or turkey, 
for a large party, if you cut the slices down from pinion 
to pinion, without making wings, there will be more 
prime pieces. 

A Cod's Head. — Fish in general requires ver}" little 
carvipg, the fleshy parts being those principally esteem- 



€■(3. A cod's head and shoulders, -w hen io season, and 
properly boiled, is a ver^- genteel and liandsome dish. 
"^Vhen cut, it should be done with a lieh-lrc w el, and the 
parts about the back-bone and the shoulders are the most 
firm and the best, lake off a piece quite down to the 
bone, in the direction a, h, c, d, putting in the spoon at 
«, c, and w ith each slice of fish give a piece of the sound, 
which lies underneath the back-bone and lines it, the 
meat of which is thin, and a little darker-coloured than 
the body of the fish itself; this may be got by pas- 
sing a knife or spoon underneath, in the direction d,f. 
About the head are many delicate parts, and a great deal 
of ihe jelly kind. The jelly part lies about the ja^r- 
bones, and the firm parts uithhi the he3d. Some arc 
fond of the palate, and others the tongue, \fhich likewise 
may be got by putting a spoon into the mouth. 

Edge-bone of Beef. — Cutoff a slice an iach thick all 
the length from a to b, in the figure opposite the last page, 
and then help. Tiie soft fat which resembles marrow, 
lies at the back of tiie bone, below c ; the firm fat must be 
cut in horizontal slices at the ed^e of the meat, d. It is 
proper to ask which is preferred, as tastes differ. The 
skewer that keeps the meat properly together when boil- 
ing, is here shown at a. This should be drawn out be- 
fore it is served up ; or, if it is necessary to leave the 
skewer in, put a silver one. 

tiirloin of Beef may be begun either at the end, of 
by cutting into the middle. It is usual to inquire whether 
the outside or the inside is preferred. For the outside 
the slice should be cut down to the bones ; and the same 
with every following helping. Slice the inside, likew ise, 
and give with each piece some of the soft fat. 

The inside done as follows eats excellently : Have 
ready some shalot- vinegar boiling hot : mince the meat 
large, and a good deal of fat: sprinkle it with s^ilt, and 
pour the shalot-vinegar, and the gravy on it. Help with 
a spoon, as quickly as possible, on hot plates. 

Round or Buttock of Beef is cut in the same way aff 
fillet of veal, in the next article. It should be kept even 
all over. When helping the fat, observe not to hack itj> 



XVlll 

feut cut it smooth. A deep slice should be cut off the 
becfbtfoi\ you begin to help, as directed above fox the 
edgt-boiis. 

Fillet of Veal. — In an ox this part is round of beef. 
Ask whether the brown outside be liked, otherwise help 
the next slice. The bone is taken out, and the meat tied 
close, btfore dressing ; v. hich makes the fillet very solid. 
It should be cut thiu, aud very smooth. — A stufiingis 
put iato the flap, which completely covers it; you must 
cut deep into this, and help a thin slice, as likewise of 
fat. From carelessness in not covering the latter with 
paper, it is sometimes dried up, to the great disappoint- 
ment of the cai*ver. 

Breast of Veal. — One part (which is called the bris- 
ket) is tliickest, and has gristles ; put your knife about 
four inches from the edge of this, and cut through it, 
which will separate the ribs from the brisket. Ask which 
is chosen, and help accordingly. 

Calfs Head has a great deal of meat upon it, if pro- 
perly mLinaged. Cut slices from a to 6, in ihe figure op- 
posite, letting the knife go close to the bone. 
In the fleshy part, at the neck end c, there lies the throat 
sweetbread, whicli you sliouhi help a slice of from c to 
<^with the other part. Many like the eye, which you 
must cut out with the poiiit of your knife, and divide 
in two. If the jaw-bone be taKen ofi', there will be 
found some fine lean. Under the head is the palate, 
which is reckoned a nicety ; the lady of the house should 
be acquainted with all things that are thought so, that 
she may distribute them among her guests. 

Shoulder of Mutton. — This is a very good joint, and 
by many preferred to tlie leg ; it being very full of gravy 
if properly roasted, and produces many nice bits. The 
figure represents it as laid in the dish with its back up- 
permost. When it is first cut it should be in the hollow 
part of it, in the diix?ction of rt, /;, an;l the knife should 
be passed deep to the bone. The prime part of the fat 
lies on the outer edge, and is to be cut out in thi!i slices 
in the direction e. If ma'iy are at table, a'ld the hollow 
part cut in the line a* h, is eaten, some very good and. 



XIX 

delicate slices may be ciit out on each side the ridge of 
the blade-bone, in the direct on f, d. The line between 
these two dotted lines, is that ia the direction of which 
the edge or ridge of the blade-bone lies, and cannot be 
cut across. 

Leg of Mutton — A leg of weiher mutton (which is 
the best flavoured) may be known b) a round lump of 
fat at the edgf of the broadest part, as at a. The best 
part is in the midway at h, between the knuckle and 
further end Begin to help there, b}^ cutting tliin deep 
slices toe. If the outside is not fat enougli, help some 
from the side ofthe broad end in slices from eto/. This part 
ismcst juicy ; but many prefer the knuckle, ^vhich in fine 
mutton will be very tender though dry. There are very 
fine slices on the back ofthe leg : turn it up, and cut the 
bread end ; not in the direction } cu did the other side, 
but longways. To cut out the cramp-bone, take hold of 
the shauk with your left-hand, and cut down to the thigh- 
bone at d; then pass the knife under the cramp-bone 
in the direction d^ g. 

Afore Quarter of Lamb. — Separate the shoulder frcm 
the scoven (w liich is the breast and ribs), by passing the 
knife under in the direction of «, b, c, d^ in the figure op- 
posite the last page; keeping it towards you horizontal- 
ly, to preveDt cutting the meat too much off the bones. 
If grass lamb, the shoulder being large, put it into an- 
other dish. Squeeze the juice of half a Seville orange 
(or lemon) on the other part, and sprinkle a little salt 
and pepper. Then separate the gristly part from the 
ribs in the line f, c ; and help either from tliat, or from 
the ribs, as may be chosen. 

Haimck of Venison. — Cut down to the bone in the line 
c, h. c, in tlie figure opposite the next page, to let out 
the gravy : then turn the broad end of the haunch to- 
ward you, put in the knife at //, and cut as deep as you 
can to the end of the Jiaunch d; then help in thin slices, 
obsen'ing to give some fat to each person. There is 
more hi (which is a favourite part) on the lef^ side of 
c and dth?LU. on the other : and those who help must take 
care to proportion it, pk likewise the gravy, according to 
the number of the company. 



XX 

Haunch of Mutton is the leg and part of the loin, cut 
so as to resemble haunch of venison, ind is to be helped 
at table in the pame manner. 

Saddle of Mutton. — Cut long thin slices from the tail 
to the end, be^iinning close to the back-bone. If a 
large joint, the slice may be divided. Cut some fat from 
the sides. 

Ha7n may be cut three ways; ^the common method is 
to begin in the middle, by long slices from a to 6, from 
the centre through the thick fat. Tliis brings to the prime 
at first ; which is likewise accomplished by cutting a 
small round hole on the top of the ham as at <?, and with a 
sharp knife enlarging that by cutting successive thi cir- 
cles : this preserves the gravy, and keeps the meat moist. 

The last and most saving way is, to begin at the hock 
end (vvhich many are most fond of),and proceed onwards. 

Ham that is used for pies, (fee. should be cut from the 
under side, first taking olT a thick slice. 

Sucking Pig. — Thecook usually divides the body be- 
fore it is sent to table, and garnishes the dish with the 
jaws and ears. 

The first thing is, to separate a shoulder from the car- 
case on one side, and then the leg according to the direc- 
tion given by the dotted line a, h^ c. The ribs are then to 
be divided into about two helpings, and an ear or jaw pre- 
seiited with them, and plenty of sauce. The joints may 
either be divided into two each,or pieces may be cut from 
them. The ribs are reckoned the finest part ; but some 
people prefer ihe neck-end, between the shoulders. 

Goose. — Cut ofi'the apron in the circular line «, b, c, 
in the figure opposite the last page ; and pour into the bo- 
dy a glass of port wine, and a large tea-spoonfal of nms- 
tard, first mixed at the sideboard. Turn the neck-end 
of the goose towards you, and cut the whole breast in 
long slices from one wing to another; but only remove 
them as you help each person, unless the company is so 
large as to require the legs likewise. This way gives 
more prime b^s than by making wings. Take ofl'the 
leg, by putting the fork ii^o tli*^ small end of the bone, 
pr ssing it to the body, and having passed the knife at c4 



turn the leg back, and if a young bird, it ^vill easily se- 
parate. To take off tlie ^ving, put your fork into the 
small end of the pinion, ajid pre^s it close to the body ; 
then put in the knife at J, and divide the joint, taking it 
down in the direction r/, c. Nothing but practice '>vill 
enable people to hit the joint exactly at the first trial. 
When the leg and Aving of one side are done, go on to the 
other ; but it is not often necessary to cut up the whole 
goose, unless the company be very large. Tiiere are two 
side bones by the T\ing, which may be cut off; as likewise 
the back and lower side-bones : but the best pieces are 
the breast and the tjiighs after being divided from the 
drum-sticks. 

Hare, or Rabbit. — The best way of cutting it up is, to 
put the point of the knife under the shoulder at a, in the 
figure opposite the next page, and so cut all the way 
down to the rump, on one side of the back-bone, in the 
line a, b. Do the same on the other side, so that the 
whole hare will be divided into three parts. Cut the 
back into four, which with the legs is the part most 
esteemed. The shoulder must be cutoff in a circular 
Hne, as, c, d, a : lay the pieces neatly on the dish as you 
cut tliem ; and then help the company, giving some pud- 
ding and gravy to every person. This v.ay can only 
be practised when the hare is young : if old, don't di- 
vide h down, which will require a strong arm : but put 
the knife between the leg and back, and give it a little 
turn inwards at tlie joint ; which you must endeavour 
to hit, and not to break by force. When both legs are 
taken off, there is a fine coUop on each side the back ; 
then divide the back into as many pieces as you please, 
and take off the shoulders, which are by many prefer- 
red, and are called the sportsman's pieces. When eveiy 
one is helped, cut olTthe head ; put your knife between 
the upper and lower jaw, and divide them, which will 
enable you to lay the upper flat on your plate ; then put 
the point of the knife into the centre, and cut the head 
into two. The ears and brains may be helped then to 
these who like them. 

A Fowl. — A boiled fowl's legs are bent inwards ani 
tucked into the belly ; but before it is served, the skew 



XXll 

ers are to be removed. Lay the fowl on your plat^, 

and place the joiiits, as cut off; on the dish. Take the 
wing oiF in the direction of a to 6, in the annexed en- 
graving, only dividing the joint with your knife ; and 
then with your fork lift up the pinion, and draw the 
wing towards the legs, and the muscles will separate in 
a more complete form than if cut. Slip the knife be- 
tween the leg and body, and cut to the bone ; then witli 
the fork turn the leg back, and the joint will give way if 
the bird is not old. When the four quarters are thus 
reraoveil, take off the merry thought from a, and the 
neck-bones; these last by putting in the knife ate, and 
pressing it under the long broad part of the bone in the 
line c, h : then lift it up, a d break it oft" from the part 
that sticks to the breast. The next thing is, to divide* 
the breast from the carcase, by cutting through the ten- 
der ribs close to the breast, quite flcwi: to the tail. Then 
lay the back upwards, put your knife into the bone 
half-way from the neck to the rump, and on raisii!g the 
lower end it will separate readily. Turn the rump 
from you, and ve.rj neatly take off* the two sidesmen, 
and the whole will be done. As each part is taken off, 
it should be turned neatly on the dish : and care should 
be taken that what is left goes properly from table. 
The breast and wings are looked upon as the best parts ; 
but the legs are most juicy, in young fowls. After all, 
more advant^ij^e will be gained by observing those who 
carve well, ai^d a little practice, than by any written 
directions whatever. 

A Ph'^asant. — 'J he bird in the annexed engraving is as 
trussed for the spit, with its head under one of its wings. 
When the skewers are taken out, and the bird served, 
the following is the way to carve it : 

Fix your fork in the centre of the breast ; slice it down 
in the line a, b ; take oft' the leg on one side in the dot- 
ted line h, d; then cut o!rthe wing on the same sirle in 
the line c, d. Separate tiie leg and wing on the other 
side, and then cut off the slices of breast you divided 
before. Be careful hoM' > ou take off the wings; for if 
you should cut too near the neck, as at g, you will hit 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



CodU Head. 



Plate 1 



^ c 




Edge Bone of Beef. 




Haifa Calfs Head. 




M 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



Shoulder of Mutton. 



Leg of Mutton. 



Plate 2. 





Quarter of Lamb. 




DOMESTIC COOKERY, 



Haunch of Vemson. 



Plate 3. 




Ham, 




Pig. 




Goose. 




■.•*--^'-s 



fc 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



Hare. 



Plate 4. 




JRocut Fo-wl 




kVing. J\'eck'Boue. Le_g^ 



<r 



.DOMESTIC COOKERY, 




Plate 5. 




PigeQUa, 




DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



Venison. 



Plate 8. 




Pork, 




ou the neck-bone, from %Yhich the -vving must be sepai-a- 
ted. CutolTthemern thought in the liue/,^', L pafesing 
the knife under it toAvards the neck. Cut the other parts 
as in a fowl. The breast wings, and merry tiiought, are 
the most esteemed ; but the leg has a higher flavour. 

The Partridge and Quail are here represented as just 
taken from the spit ; but before it is served up the skew- 
ers must be withdrawn. It is cut up in the same as a fowl. 
The wings must be taken off in the line «, b, and a merry- 
thouitht in the line c, d. The prime parts of a partridge are 
the wings, breast and meriy thought; but the bird being 
small the two latter are not often divided. The v, ii.g is 
considered as the best, and the tip of it reckoned the 
most delicate morsel of the whole. 

Pigeons. — Cut them in half, either from top to bottom 
or across. The low part is generally, thought the best ; 
but the fairest way is to cut from the neck to «, figure 
7, rather than from c to 6, by a, which is the most fash- 
ionable. The figure represents the back of the pigeon; 
and the direction of the knife is in the line c, h, by a, if 
done the last war. 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



FART I. 



FISH. 

To choose Fish 

SHEEPS HEAD, is generally considered as the finest 
fish brought to market in the U. S. It should be 
firm and thick, and the eyts bright. They are in seasoa 
all through the summer. 

Rock Fish, called Streaked Bass, is a very delicate and 
fine flavoured fish, and by some esteemed more highly 
than the Sheeps Head. It should be cooked when per- 
fectly fresh as it soon spoils. Is in the greatest perfectioQ 
from July until October. 

Sea Beiss, Black Fish, and Blue Fish, are very excellent 
in their kinds, and are always to be had alive in every sea- 
port from Portland to Philadelphia, and occasionally far- 
ther south. 

Turhot, if good, should be thick, and the belly of a yel- 
lowish white ; if of a bluish cast, or thin, they are bad. 
They are in season the greatest part of the summer. 

Salmon. — If new, the flesh is of a fine red (the gills par^ 
ticularly), the scales bright, and the wliole fish stiff. Whea 
just killed, there is a whiteness between the flakes, which 
gives great firmness ; by keeping, this melts down, and 
the fish is more rich. 

Cod. — The gills should be very red : the fish should be 
veiy thick at the neck, the flesh white and firm, and the 
eyes fresh. When flabby they are not good. They are 
iu season from the beginning of December till the end o^ 
April. 

Shad. — If good, they are white and thick. If too fresl^ 
they eat tough, but must not be kept above two days with? 
out salting. 

Herrings. — If good, their gills are of a fine red and tlie 
eyes bright; as is likewise the whole fish, which must be 
stiff and firm. 

Soles. — If good, they are thick, and the belly is of a 
cream-colour ; if this is of a bluish cast and flabby they arl? 



26 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

not fresh. • Thtj are ia the market almost the -whole year 
but are ia the highest perfectioa about riiid-Euntmer. 

Whitings, called Weak Fish. — The firjuness of the bod}- 
aad fins is to be looked to, as in herrings. 

Mac/card. — Choose as v/hitings. Their seasoa is May, 
Jiiae, and July. They are so tender a fish that they 
carry and keep worse than any other. 

Pike. — For IVcshness observe the above marks. The 
best are taken in rivers; they are a very dry fish, and 
are much indebted to stufTing and sauce. 

Carp live some time cut cf water, and may tlierefore 
get wasted ; it is best to liill them as soon as caught, to 
prevent this. The same signs of freshness attead them 
as other fisji. 

Trmit. They are a fine-flavoured fresh-water fish, 
and should be killed and dressed as soon as caught. — 
When they are to be bought, examine v.hether the gills 
are red and hard to open, the eyes bright, and the body 
stiff. 

Perch. — Take the general rules given to distinguish 
the freshness of other fish. 

Mullets. — The sea are preferred to the river mullets, 
and the red to the grey. They should be very firm. 

Gudgeons. — They are chosen by the same niles as 
other fish. They are taken ia running streams ; come 
in about midsummer, and are to be had for five or six 
months. 

Eels. — There is a greater diiTerence in the goodness of 
eels than of any other fish. The tme silver-eel (so called 
from the bright colour of tlie belly) is caught in fresh 
l^ater. 

Lobsters. — If they have net been long taken, the claws 
will have a strong motion when you put your finger on the 
eyes and press them. The heaviest are the best. The 
cock-lobster is known by the narrow back part of his tail 
and the two uppermost fins within it are stiff and hard; 
but those ^{ the hen are soft, and the tail broader. The 
male, tliough generally smaller, hns tl'.e higljest flavour, 
the flesh is firmer, and the colour when boiled is a deep- 
er red. 

Crabs. — The heaviest are best, and those of a middling 
size arc sweetest. If light they are watery: when in 



perfection the joints of the legs are stiff*, and the body has 
a very agreeable smell. The eyes look dead and loose 
when stale. 

Prawns and Shrimps. — When fresh they have a sweet 
flavour, are firm and stiff, and the colour is bright. — 
Shrimps are of the prawn kind, and may be judged by the 
same rules. 

Oysters. — There are several kinds. The native are 
finest, being white and fat ; but others may be made to 
possess both these qualities in some degree by proper feed- 
ing. When alive and strong the shell is close. They 
should be eaten as soon as opened, the flavour becoming 
poor otherwise. The rock-oyster is largest, but usually 
has a coarse flavour if eaten raw. 

Flounders. — They should be thick, firm, and have 
their eyes bright. 

The abundance and variety of fishes daily brought 
to market in every seaport town in the United 
States, cannot be equalled in any other part of the 
world. And the general practice of exhibiting them for 
sale jumping alive, Avhile it precludes the possibility of de- 
ception, renders unnecessary any farther directions for 
avoiding imposition. Indeed, upon the whole of this chap- 
ter, the editor rather intends to retrench than to enlarge ; 
and simply for this reason, — that to go into the minutise of 
dressing and serving the infinite varieties which are pro- 
duced here, avouH of itself occupy a larger book than this 
is intended to be. Siie therefore contents herself with the 
small merit, of making or leaving this work more copious 
upon this subject than any other in general use. 
Observations on Dressing Fish, 

When quite clean, if to be boiled, some salt and a little 
vinegar should be put into the water to give firmness ; but 
eod, shad, bass, whiting, and haddock, are far better if a 
little salted, and kept a day : and if not very hot weather 
they will be good two days. 

Those who know how to purchase fish, may, by taking 
more at a time than they want for one day, often get it 
cheap : and such kinds as will pot or pickle, or keep by 
being sprinkled with salt and hung up, or by being fried 
will serve for stewing the next day, may then be bought 
"Vi'ith advantage. C 2 



2% DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

jFresli-Avater fish has often a nrnddy smell and taste, to 
take off which, soak it in strong salt and crater after it is 
nicely cleaned ; or if of a size to bear it, scald it ia the 
same ; then dry and dress it. 

1 he fish must be put into the water while cold, and set 
to do very gently, or the outside Avill break before the inner 
part is done. 

Small fish nicely fried, covered with eggs and crumbs, 
make a dish far more elegant than if served plain. Great 
attention should be paid to garnish fish: use plenty of 
horse-radish, parsley, and lemon. 

When well done, and with very good sauce, fish is more 
attended to than almost any other dish. I he liver and 
roe should be placed on the dish, so that the lady may see 
them, and help a part to every one. 

If fish is to be fried or broiled, it must be wrapt in a 
nice soft cloth after it is well cleaned and washed. — When 
perfectly dry, wet with an egg if for frying, and sprinkle 
the finest crumbs of bread over it; if done a second time 
with the egg and bread, the fish will look much better : 
then having a thick-boltomed frying-pan on the fire, with 
a large quantity of lard or dripping boiling-liot, plunge the 
fish into it, and let it fry nilddlingly quick, till the colour 
is a fine brown yellow, and it is judged ready. If it is 
done enough before it has obtained a proper degree of 
•colour, the cook should drav/ the pan to tlie side of tlie 
fire ; ciu'efully take it up, and either place it on a large 
sieve turned upwards, and to be kept for that purpose on- 
ly, or on the under side of a dish to drain ; and if wanted 
rery nice, a sheet of cap paper must be put to receive the 
fish, which should look a beautiful colour, and all the 
crumbs appear distinct ; the fish being free from all grease. 
The same drippim;-, witli a little fresh, will serve a second 
time. Butter gives a bad colour; oil fries of the finest 
colour for those who will allow the expense. 

Garnish with a fringe of curled raw parsley, or parsley 
fried, which must be thus done : When washed afid pick- 
ed, throw it again into clean water: when tlie l*.id or 
dripping boils, throw the parsley into it imme iiatel) from 
the water, and instantly it v.ill he green and crisp, a d 
jnust be tak( n up with a slice : this ma> be done after 
the fish is fried. 



FISH. 29 

If the fish is to be broiled, it must be seasoned, fioured 
and put on a gridiron that is verj clean ; which, when 
hot, should be nibbed with a bit of suet, to prerent the 
fish from sticking. It m^st be broiled on a very clear fire 
that it may not taste smoky : and not too near, tliat it may 
not be scorched. 

TUREOT. 

To keep Turhot. 

If necessary, turbot will keep f-r two or three days, 
and be in as high perfection as at first, if lightly rubbed 
oyer with salt, aud careiuily huug in a cold olace. 
To hail Tiirbct. 

The turbot-kettle must be of a proper size, and in the 
nicest order. Set the fish in cold water sufficient to cover 
it completely, throw a handful of salt and a glass of vine- 
gar into it, and let it graaually boil ; skim it well, and pre- 
serve the bcatity of tlie colour. 

Serve it garnished with a complete fringe of curled 
parsley, lemon, and horse -radisli. 

Th sauce must be the finest lobster, and anchovy but- 
ter, and plain bntter, served plentifully in separate tu- 
reens. 

To Boil Sheeps-head. 

Set it in cold water, throvr in a liandful of salt, and boil 
gradually; skim it frequently Dish, and throw over it 
a rich egg sauce, and serve hot — garnkb witi) curled pars- 
ley and lemon. 

Black-Fish, Rock-Fish, and Sea-Bass. 

Are boiled and served up in the sam manner as the 
foregoing, with plenty of sauce in the sauce boat. 

SALMON. 

To Boil Salmon. 

Clean it carefully, boil it gently, and take it out of the 
water as soon as done. Let the water be warm if the fish- 
be split. If underdone it is very unwholesome. 

Shrimp or anchovy sauce. 

To Broil Salmon. 

Cut slices an inch thick, and season with pepper and 
salt ; lay each slice iu half a : heet of white paper, w f^U but- 
tered, twist the ends of the paper, and broil the slices over 
a i^' V. fire six or eight miuutes. Serve in the paper with 
aachovy-sauce. 



3d EC5;iflIC CCfKJBT. 

To Pot Salmon. 

Take a larcje piece, scale aud wipe, but don't wash it : 
salt very well, let it lie till the salt is melted and drained 
from it, then season v.ith beaten mace, cloves, and whole 
pepper : put it close into a pan, cover it over with butter, 
and bake it ; when well done, drain it from the grav}, put 
it into the pots to keep, a id when cold cover it Avith clari- 
fied butter. 

In this manner you may do auy firm fish. 
To dry Salmon. 

Cut the fibh down, take out the inside and roe. Rub the 
whole with common salt after scaling it; let it hang 24 
hours to d ail). Pound three or four ounces of salt-petre 
according to the size of the fish, two ounces of bay salt, 
and two ounces of coarse sugar ; rub these, when mixed 
well into the salmon, and lay it on a large dish or tray two 
da}'s, then rub it well with common salt, and in 24 hours 
more it will be fit to dry ; v. ipe it well after draining. 
Hang it either in a wood chimney, or in a dry place ; keep- 
ing it open with two small sticks. 

Dried salmon is eaten broiled in paper, and only just 
warmed through ; egg-sance and mashed potatoes with it; 
or it may be boiled, especially the bit next tjie head. 
Afi excellent dish of dried Salmon. 

Pull some into (lakes ; have ready some eggs boiled hard 
and chopped large ; put both into half a pint of thin cream, 
and two or three ounces of butter rubbed with a teaspoon- 
ful of flour ; skim it, and stir it till boiling hot ; njake a w^all 
of mashed potatoes round the inner edge of a dish, and 
pour the above into it. 

To pickle Salmon. 

Boil as before directed, take the fish out and boil the li- 
quor with cloves, pepper- corns, aud salt; add vinegar, 
when cold, and pour it over the fish. 
Another way. 

After scaling aud cleaning, split the salmon, aud divide 
it iiito such pieces as you choose, lay it in the kettle to 
fill the bottom, and as much water as will cover it; to 
three quarts put a pint of vinegar, a handful of salt, six 
bhides of mace, and a quarter of an ounce of black pep- 
per. When the salmon is boiled enough, drain it and put 
% on a clean clotli, Uiea put more salmoQ ioto the kettle;^ 



JflSH. 31 

and pour the Jiqour upoa it, and soon tiii ail is done. Af- 
ret this, ii" the pickle be not smartly flavoured with the vi- 
legar and salt, add more, and boil it quick three quarters 
of an hour. \Vhen all is cold, pack the fish in something 
deep, and let there be enough of Pickle to plentifully co- 
yer. Preserve it from the air. The liquor must be drain- 
ed from the fish, and occasionally boiled and skimmed. 
Sabiicn collared. 
Split such a part of the fish as may be suiTicient to make 
a handsome roll, v. ash and wipe it, and having mixed salt, 
white pepper, pounded mace, and Jamaica pepper, in quan- 
tity lo season it very high, rub it inside and cut well. 
Then roll it tight and bandage it, put as much water 
and one third vinegar as will cover it, with salt, and 
botli sorts of pepper. Cover close, and simmer till done 
enough. Drain and Boil quick the liquor, and put on 
when cold. Serve with fennel. It is an elegant dish, and 
extremely good. 

COD. 

Is generally boiled whole ; but a large head and shoul- 
ders contain all the fish that is proper to help, the thinner 
parts being overdone and tasteless before the thick are rea- 
dy. But the whole fish may be purchased at times more 
reasonably ; and the lower half, if sprinkled and hung up 
will be in high perfection one or two days. Or it may be 
made Salter, and served with egg-sauce potatoes and par- 
snips. 

Cod when small is usually very cheap. If boH'^<l quite 
fresh it is watery; but eats excellently if salted and hung 
up for a day, to give it iirmness, then stuffed broiled, or 
boiled. 

Cod's Head a?id shotdders 
Will eat much liner by having a little salt rubbed down 
the bone, and along the thick part, even if it be eaten the 
same day. 

Tie it up, and putit on the fire in cold water which will 
completely cover it; throw a handful of salt into it. Great 
care must be taken to serve it without the smallest speck 
of bl^ck or scum. Garnish with a large quantity of 
do- ble parsley, lemon, horse-radish, and the milt, roe and 
liver. 



32 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

Serve with plenty of oyster or shrimp-sauce, and an- 
cho\'y and butter. 

Crimp Cod. 

Boil, broil, or fry. 

Cod Sounds boiled. 

Soak them in warm water half an hour, then scrape and 
clean ; and if to be dressed white, boil them in milk and 
water ; when tender sei'\'e them in a napkin, with egg-sauce. 
The salt must not be much soaked out, unless for fricassee. 

Cod Soit7ids to look like small Chickens. 
A good maigre-day dish. Wash three large sounds nicely 
and boil in milk and water, but not too tender; when cold 
put a forcemeat of chopped oysters, crumbs of bread, a bit 
of butter, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and the yolks of two eggs ; 
spread it thin over the sounds, and roll up each in the form 
of a chicken, skewering it ; then lard them as you would 
chickens, dust a little flour over, and roast them in a tin 
oven slowly. When done enough, pour over them a fine 
oyster-sauce. Serve for side or corner dish. 
To hroil Cod Sounds. 

Scald in hot water, rub well with salt, pull off the dirty 
skin, and put them to simmer till tender ; take them out, 
flour, and broil. While this is doing, season a little 
brown gravy witli pepper, salt, a teaspoonful of soy, and a 
little mustard : give it a boil with a bit of flour and butter^ 
and pour it ov^er the sounds. 

Cod Sounds ragout. 

Prepare as above ; then stew them in white eravy sea- 
soned, cream, butter, and a little bit of flour added before 
youserv'e, gently boiling up. A bit of lemon-peel, nutmeg, 
and the least pounded mace, should give tlic flavour. 
Currie of Cod 

Should be made of sliced cod, that has either been crimp- 
ed or sprinkled a day, to make it firm. Fr) it of a fine 
broAvn with onions ; and stew it with a good white gravy, 
a little currie-powder, abit of butter and flour, three or four 
spoonfuls of rich cream, salt, and Cayenne. 

To dress Salt Cod, called Dumb Fish. 

Soak and clean the piece you mean to dress, then lay it 
all night in water, witli a glass of vinegar. Boil it enough, 
tlieu break it into flakes on the dish ; pour over it parsnips. 



FISH. 33 

boiled, beaten in a mortar, and then boil up with cream and 
a large piece of butter rubbed with a bit of flour. 
The most usual ivay. 
And perhaps the best, is to serve it up whole, in a napkin 
with plenty of rich egg-sauce. 

STURGEON. 

To dress fresh Sturgeon. 

Cut slices, rub eg^ over them, then sprinkle with crumbs 
of bread, parsley, pepper, salt : fold them in paper, and 
broil gently. 

Sauce butter, anchov}', and soy-. 

To roast Sturgeon^ 

Put it on a lark-spit, then tie it on a large spit ; baste 
it constantly with butter ; and serve with a good gravy, 
an ancliovy, a squeeze of Seville orange or lemon, and a 
glass of sherry. 

Another. 

Put a piece of butter, rolled in flour, into a stew-pan with 
four cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, two onions, some pep- 
per and salt, half a pint of water, and a glass of vinegar. 
Stir it over the fire till hot ; then let it become lukewarm, 
and steep the fish in it an hour or two. Butter a paper 
well, tie it round, and roast it without letting the spit nm 
through. Serve with sorrel and anchovy sauce. 
An excellent imitation of pickled Sturgeon. 

Take a fine large turkey, but not old ; pick it very nicely 
«inge, and make it extremely clean ; bone and wash it, 
and tie it across and across with a bit of matstriug wash- 
ed clean. Put into a very nice tin saucepan a quart of 
water, a quart of vinegar, a quart of white ( but not sweet) 
wine, and a very large handful of salt : boil and skim it 
well, then boil the turkey. When done enough, tigliten 
the strings, and lay upon it a dish with a -weight of tAvo 
pounds over it. 

Boil the Hquor half an hour ; and when both are cold, 
put the turkey into it. This will keep some months, and 
eats more delicately than sturgeon; vinegar, oil, and 
su2:ar, are usually eaten with it. If more vinegar or salt 
should be wanted> add when cold. Send fennel over it to 
table. 



34 DOMESTIC COOKEKV. 

5. 

Shad 

Is most commonly pickled and kept for broiling as a 
relish. But mak^ s an excellent dinner dish w hen fresh. 
Scale, split down the back, car< fully wash and dry it. 
Season h;*chh with salt, black pepper and Ca}enne, broil 
for half an hour, or until well done ; butter it and serve 
w ith plenty of egg-sauce. 

Boiled Carp. 

Serve in a napkin, and with the sauce w hich you will 
find directed for it under the next article. 

Stewed Carp; Black, or Rock Fiah. 

Scale and clean, take care of the roe, Szc. Lay the fish 
in a stew-pan, with a rich beet-gravy, an onion, eight cloves 
a <lessert-spoonful of Jamaica pepper, the same of bl.ick, 
a fourth part of the quantity of gravy or port wine (cyder 
may do); simmer close-covered ; when nearly done udd 
two anchovies chopped fine, a dessert-spoonful of made 
mustard, and some fine walnut ketchup, a bit of butter 
rolled in flour : shake it, and let the gravy boil a few min- 
utes. Serve with sippets of fried bread, the roe fried, and 
a good deal of horse-radish and lemon. 

Baked Carp, or Black Fish. 

Clean a large one ; put in a stuffing. Sew it up ; brush it 
all over with yolk of egg, and put plenty of crumbs ; 
then drop oiled butter to baste them ; place the fish in a 
deep earthen dish, a pint of stock, a few sliced onions, a 
faggot of herbs, (such as basil, thyme, parsley, and both 
sorts of marjoram,) half a pint of port wine, and six an- 
chovies. Cover over the pan, and bake it an hour. Let 
it be done before it is wanted. Pour the liquor from it, 
and keep the fish {}ot while you heat up the liouor with a 
good piece of butter rolled in flour, a tea-spoonful of 
mustard, a little Cayenne, and a spoonful of soy. Serve 
the fish on the dish, garnislied with lemon, and parsley, 
and horse-radish, and put the gravy into the sauce-tureen. 
Perch. 

Put them into cold water, boil them carefully, and serve 
with melted butter and soy. Perch are a most delicate 
fish. They mav cither be fried or stewed, but in stewing 
they do not preserve so good a flavour. 



FISH. 35 

To fry Trout and Perch. 

Scale, gut, and ^vell Avasli : then dry them, and lay them 
separately on a board belore the fire, after dusting some 
flour over them. Fry them of a fine colour ^vith fresh 
dripping ; serve -with crimp parsley, and plain butter. 
Trout a-la-Genevoise. 

Clean the fish very well ; put it into your stew-pan, ad- 
ding half Champaigne and half claret, or sherry wine. 
Season it with pepper, salt, an onion, a fc\v cloves stuck in 
it, and a small bunch of parsley and thyme : put in it a 
crust of French bread ; set it on a quick fire. When the 
fish is done, take the bread out, bruise it, and then thick- 
en the sauce ; add flour and a little butter, and let it boil 
up. See that your sauce is of a proper thickness. Lay 
your fish on the dish, and pour the sauce over it. Serve 
it with sliced lemon and fried bread. 

MACKEREL. 

Boil, and serve with butter and fennel. 

To broil them, split, and sprinkle with herbs, pepper, 
and salt ; or stuff with the same, crumbs, and chopped 
fennel. 

Collared, as Eel, page 38. 

Potted : clean, season, and bake them in a pan with spice 
and some butter; when cold, lay them in a potting-pot, and 
cover with buiter. 

Pickled : boil them, then boil some of the liquor, a fe w 
peppers, and some vinegar; when cold pour it over them. 
Pickled Mackarel^ called Caveach. 

Clean and divide them ; then cut each side into three, 
or leaving them undivided, cut each fish into five or six 
pieces. To six large mackarel, take near an ounc<j of 
pepper, two nutmegs, a little mace, four cloves, and a hand- 
ful of salt, all in the finest powder; mix, and makinsr holes 
in each bit or fish, thrust the seasoniiig into them, rut each 
piece with some of it; then fry them brown in oil; let th m 
stand till cold, then put them into a stone jar, and cover 
with vinegar; if to keep long, pour oil on the top. Thus 
done, they may be preserved for months. 
Red Mullet. 

C\( an, but leave the inside, fold in oiled paper, au<J 
geatly bake in a small dish. Make a sauce of the liquor 
D 



^i6 DOMESTIC COJivES-k- 

(hat comes from the fish, T\'ith a piece of butter, a little 
flour, a little essence of anchovy, and a glass of sherry. 
Give it a boil ; and ser^-e in a boat, and the fish in the pa- 
per .cases. 

To Dress Pipers. 

Boil, or bake them with a pudding well seasoned. Il 
baked, put a large cup of rich broth into the dish ; and 
wlien done, take that, some essence of anchovy, and a 
squeeze of lemon, and -boil them up together for sauce. 
To Bake Pike. 

Scale it, and open as near the throat as you can, then 
5tutrit with the following : grated bread, herbs, anchovies. 
4>ysteTs, suet, salt, pepper, mace, half a pint of cream, four 
yolks of eggs; mix all over the fire till it thickens, then 
put it into the fish, and sew it up; butter should be put 
over it in little bits; bake it. Serve sauce ofgrav}, but- 
ter, and anchovy. Note : if, in helping a pike, the back 
Tind belly are slit up, and each slice gently drawn down- 
•wards, there will be fewer bones given. 

HADDOCK. 

Boil ; or broil with sti/ffi7ig as under ^ Imving salted them it 

day. 

To Dry Haddock. 

Choose them of two or three pounds weight : take out 
ilie gills, eyes, and entrails, and remove the blood from the 
back-bone. Wipe them dry, and put some salt into the 
bodies and eyes. Lay them on a board for a night ; then 
hang thom up in a dry place, and after three or foui* days 
th y will be fit to eat ; skin and mb them with egg ; and 
strew crumbs over them. Lay them before the fire, and 
baste with butter uetil brown enough. Serve with egg- 
sauce. 

Whitings, if large, are excellent this way; and it will 
prove an accoinmo<iation in the country where there is no 
regular supply of fish. 

Stuffing for Pike, Haddock, and small Cod. 

Take equal parts of fat bacon, beef-suet, and fresh but- 
ter, some parsley, thyme, and savoury; a liitle onion, and 
a few leaves of scented marjoram shred fine; an anchovy 
or two ; a little salt and nutmeg, and some pepper. Oys- 
ters will be an improvement with or without anchovies; 
dd GiTirabSj aod au egg to bind. 



FI5H. 37 

SOLES, called fiat fish. 

If boiled, they must be served with great care to look 
perfectl} white, and should be much covered with parsley. 

If fried, dip in cgs;, aud cover them with fine crumbs 
o{ bread ; set on a fryiDg-pan that is just large enough, 
and put into it a large quantity of fresh lard or dripping, 
boil it, and immediately slip the fish into it; do them of a 
fine brown. See to fry, page 35. 

Soles tliat have been fried eat good cold with oil, vine- 
gai*, salt, and nmstard. 

Slewed Soles, 

Do as black fish, page 84. 

Soles another rvay. 

Take two or three soles,divide them from the back-bone, 
and tal^e off the head, fins, and tail. Sprinkle the inside 
with salt, roll them up tight from the tail-end upwards, and 
fasten with small skewers. If large or middling, put half 
a fish in each rcll ; small do not answer. Dip them into 
yolks of eggs, and cover them w ith crumbs. Do the egg 
over them again, aud then put more crumbs ; and fry them 
a beautiful colour in lard, or for fast-day in clarified butter. 
Soles in the Portuguese way. 

Take one large or two small: if large, cut the fish ia 
two; if small they/ need only be split. The bones being 
taken out, put the fish into a pan with a bit of butter and 
some lemon-j' lice, give it a fry, then lay the (ish on a dish, 
and spread a forcemeat over each piece, and roil it round 
fastening ihc roll widi a fevr small skewers. Lay the rolls 
into a small earthen pan, beat an egg and wet them, then 
slrew crumbs over ; and put the i-cniaiuder of the egg, with 
a little nxat-grayy, a spoonful of caper-liquor, an anchovy 
ciiopped fine, and some partley chopped, into the bottom 
of the pan ; cover it close, and bal;e till the fish are done 
enough in a slow oven. Then place the rolls in the dish 
tor serving, and cover it to keep them hot till the gravy 
baked is skimmed ;• if not enough, a little fresh, flavoured 
as above, must be prepared and added to it. Garnish 
;vith parsley. 

Jyi excellent wen/ of dressing a large Flounder 

Sprinkle with salt, aad keep twenty-four hours ; then 



3& DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

vash and wipe it dry,wet over with egg,cover with cvumlj>, 
©f bread; make some lard or fine dripping, and two large 
spoonfuls of vinegar, boiling hot ; lay the fish in, and fry 
it a line colour, drain it from the fat, and serve with fried 
parsley round, and anchovy-sauce. You may dip the fidi 
in vinegar, and not put it into the pan. 
Tofryi^mallpanfish. 
They should not be washed more than is necessary to- 
clean them. Dry them in a cloth ; then lightly flour them, 
but shake it off. Dip them into plenty of egg,then into bread 
wumbs grated fine, and plunge them into a good pan of 
hoiling lard : let them continue gently boiling, and a few 
minutes will make thera a bright yeliow-brown. Take 
care not to take off the light roughness of the crumbs, 6v 
their beauty will be lost. 

EELS. 

Spitchcock Eels. 

Take one or two large eels, leave the skin on, cut them- 
into pieces of three inches long,^open them on the belly- 
side, and clean them nicely : wipe them dry, and then wet 
them with beaten eg^, and strew over on both sides chop- 
ped parsley, pepper, salt, a very little sage, and a bit of 
mace pounded fine and mLxed with the seasoning. Rub 
the gridiron with a bit of suet, and br6il the fish of a fine 
colour. 

Serve w ith anchovy and butter for sauce. 
Fried Eels. 

If small they should be curled round and fried, being^ 
first dipped into egg and crumbs of bread. 
Boiled Eels. 

The small ones are best : do (hem in a small quantity of 
water, with a good deal of parsley, which should be served 
up with them and the liquor. 

Serve chopped parsley and butter for sauce. 
Eel Broth, very nourishing for the Sick. 

Do as above ; but stew two hours, and add an onion and 
peppercorns : salt to taste. 

Collared Eel. 

Bone a large eel, but don't skin it : mix pepper, salt, 
mace, allspice, nnd a clove or two, in the finest powder, 
aad nib ©rer flie wkele hiside ; roll it tight, aad bind Avittt 



a coaKe tape. Boil in salt and water till enougli, then add 
vinegar, and when cold keep the collar in pickle. Serve 
it either whole or in slices. Chopped sage, parsley, and 
a little thyme, knotted marjoram, and savouiy, mixed with 
the spices, greatly improve the taste. 
To Stew Lamprey. 

After cleaning the fish carefully, remove the cartilage 
which runs down the back, and season with a small quanti- 
ty of cloves, mace, nutmeg, pepper, and allspice ; put it 
into a small stew-pot, with verj strong beef-gravy, poit, 
and an equal quantity of Madeira or sherry. 

It must be covered close ; stew till tender, then take out 
the lamprey and keep hot, while you boil up the liquor 
with two or three anchovies chopped, and some flour and 
butter ; strain the gravy through a sieve, and add lemon- 
juice and some made mustard. Serve with sippets of 
bread and horse-radish. 

Eels^ done the same way, cat a good deal like the lam* 
prey. When there is spawn, it must be fried and put 
yound. 

Note. Cider will do in common instead of white wine» 

FLOUNDERS. 

Let them be mbbed w ith salt inside and out, and lie two 
hours to give them some firmness. Dip them into egg^ 
cover with crumbs, and i\y them. 

Water Soiichy. 

Stew two or three flounders, some parsley-leaves and 
roots, thirty peppercorns, and a quart of water, till tlie 
fish are boiled to pieces ; pulp them through a sieve. Set 
over the fire the pulped fish, the liquor tliat boiled them, 
some perch, trout, or flounders, and some fresh leaves and 
roots of parsley ; simmex all till done enough, then serve iq 
a deep dish. Slices of bread and butter are to be sent to 
table, to eat with the souchy. 

HERRINGS. 

To Smoke Herrings. 
Glean, and lav them in salt and a little saltpetre one 
night ; then hang them on a stick, through the eyes, in a 
row. Have ready an old cask, in which put some saw- 
dust, and in the midst of it n heater red-hot; Ox the stick 
over the smoke^and let them remain twenty -four heis^ 
D 2 



4f^ DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

Fried Herrings. 

Serve them of a light brown, with onions sliced an(i 
Iried. 

Broiled Herrings, 

Floiir them fii'st, and do of a good colour : plain butter 
for sauce. 

Potted Herrings, 

Are very go^d done like Mackarel, see page 35. 
To Dress Red Herrings. 

Choose those that are large and moist, cut them opef>, 
»and pour some boiling small beer over them to soak half an 
feour ; drain them dry, and make them just hot through bt- 
fore the fire, then rub some cold butter over them and 
serve. Egg-sauce, or buttered eggs and mashed potatoes^ 
should be sent up with them. 

Baked Herrings. 

Wash and drain without wiping them ; season with all- 
spice in fine powder, salt, and a few whole cloves ; lay them 
in a pan with plenty of black pepper, and an onion. Add 
half vinegar and half small-beer, enough to cover them. 
Put paper over the pan, and bake in a slow oven. If you 
like, throw saltpetre over them the night before, to make 
tjiem look red. Gut, but do not open them. 
ILOESTERs and shri:mps. 
To Pot Lobsters. 

Half boil them, pick out the meat, cut it into small bits, 
season with mace, white pepper, nutmeg, and salt, press 
close into a pot, and cover Avith butter ; bake half an hour ; 
put the spawn in. When cold take the lobster out, and 
put it into the pots with a little of the butter. Beat the 
other butter in a mortar with some of the spawn ; then mix " 
that coloured butter with as much as will be sufficient to 
cover the pots, and strain jt. Cayenne may be added, if 
approved. 

Another way to Pot Lobsters. 

Take out the meat as whole as you can; split the tail 
and remove the gut : if the inside be not watery, add that. 
Season with mace, nutmeg, white pepper, salt, and a clove 
or two, in the finest powder. Lay a little fine butter at the 
bottom of the pan, and the lobster smooth over it ; cover it 
Tith btttter, and bake gently. AVhen done, pour the wholp 



oa the bottom of a sieve ; and T^ith a fork lay the* pieces 
into pottiog pots, some cf each sort, -with the seasoning 
about it. Wheu cold, pour clarified butter over, but not 
hot. It Avill be good next day ; or highly seasoned, and 
thick covered ^uth butter, will keep scrae tim€. 

Potted lobster may be used cold, or as a fricasee, with a 
cream-sauce ; it then lool-s very nicely and eats excellent- 
ly, especially if there is spawn. 

Mackarel, Herrings, and Trout, are good potted as. 
above. 

Steived Lobster, a vciry high relish. 

Pick the lobster, put the berries into a dish that has a* 
tamp, and rub them down with a bit of butter, two spoon-* 
fills of any sort cf gra\y, one of soy, or walnut-ketchup, a 
little salt and Cayenne, and a spoonful of port; stew the 
lobster cut into bits with the gravy as above. 
Buttered Lobsters. 

Pick the meat out, cut it, and warm with a little weaK 
"brown-gravy, nutmeg, salt, pepper, and butter, with a little 
flour. If done white, a little white gravy and cream. 
To roast Lobsters. 

When you have half boiled the lobster take it out of 
the water, and while hot, rub it with butter and lay it be- 
fore the fire. Continue basting it with butter till it has a 
fine froth. 

Lobsters or Prawns. 

Take them from the shells, and lay into a pan, with a 
small piece of mace, three or four spoonfuls of veal-gravy^ 
and four of cream ; nib smooth one or two teaspoonfuls of 
eurrie powder, a teaspoonful of flour, and an ounce of but- 
ter; simmer an hour; squeeze half a lemon in, and add 
salt. 

Praimis and Cray -fish in jelly, a beauii/ul dish. 

Make a savoury fish-jelly, aud put some into the botr 
lom of a deep small dish : when cold, lay the cray-fisb^ 
with their back downwards,and pour more jelly over them. 
Turn out when cold. 

To butter Praivns or Shrimps. 

Take them out of the shells ; and warm them with a 
little good gravy, a bit of butter and flour, a scrape of 
autraeg, salt, and pepper ; simmer a minute or two, and 
3erve with sippets j or with a creara-sauce, isgt^atl <5t 



42 D03iEsaie cooKtRv 

To pot Shrhnps, 

When boiled, take them out of the skins, and seasoa 
them ^vith salt, white pr pper, and a very little mace and 
cloves. Press them into a pot, set it in the oven ten min- 
utes, and vhen cold put butter. 

CRABS. 

Hot Crab, 

Pick the meat out of a crab, clear the shell from the 
Ji.ead, then put the meat with a little nutmeg, salt, pepper, 
a bit of brtter, crumbs of bread, and three spoonfuls of 
vinegar, into the shell again, and tet it before the fire. 
You may brown it with a salamander. 

Dry toafct should be served to eat it upon. 
Dressed Crab cold. 

Empty the shells, and mix the flesh with oil, vinegar, 
salt, and a little white pepper and Cajenne; then put tlie 
mixture into a large shell, and serve. Yerj little oil is 
necessary. 

OYSTERS. 

To feed Oi/stcrs. 
Put them into water, and wash them with a birch besom 
till quite clean; then lay them bottom-downwards, into a 
pan, sprinkle with ficur or oatmeal and salt, and cover 
with water. Do the same every day, and they will fatten. 
The water should be pretty salt. 

To stnv Oi/stns. 
Open, and separate the liquor from them, then wash them 
from the grit; strain the liquor, and put with the o; sters 
a bit of mace and leaion-[)cel, and a few white peppers. 
Simnjer them very gently, and put some cream, and a Ut- 
ile flour and butter. 
Serve with sippets. 

Boiled Oysters 
Eat well. Let the shells be nicely cleaned first ; and sei*ve 
sfi them, to eat with col.i butter. 

To scallop Oysters. 
Put them with crmibs of bread, pepper, salt, nutmeg, 
and a bit of butter, into scalloj)-sheHs, or saucers, and 
bake before the fire in a Dutch-oven. 
Fritd Oysters. 
Make a better of flour, milk, and eggs, season it a very 
little, dip the oysters into it, and fiy tilicni a fine yellow- 



brown. A little nutmeg should be put hito the seasonicg, 
and a few crumbs of bread into the (lour. 
Oi/sUr SiUiCC. 

See Sauces. 

Oyster loaves. 

Open them, and save the liquor ; wasli them in it ; ther> 
strain it through a sieve, and put a little of it into a tosser, 
"with a bit ofbuttef and flour, white pepper, a scrape of 
nutmeg, and a liale cream. Stew them, and cut io dice ; 
put them into rolls. 

Oyster Patties, 

See Patties. 

To Pickle Oysters, 

Wash four dozen of the largest oysters you can get is 
their own liquor, wipe them dry, strain the liquor off, ad- 
ding to it a desert-spoonful of pepper, two blades of mace, 
a table-spoonful of salt, if the liquor be not very salt, 
three of white wine, and four of vinegar. — Simmer the 
©ysters a few minutes in the liquor, then put them in small 
jars, and boil the pickle up, skim it, and when cold, pour 
over the oysters : cover close. 

Another way to pickle Oysters. 
' Open the number you intend to pickle, put them into a 
saucepan with their own liquor for ten minutes, simmer 
them very gently ; then put them into a jar, oue by one, 
that none of the grit may stick to them, and cover them 
when cold with the pickle thus made. — Boil the liquor- 
^fith a bit of mace, lemon-peel, and black peppers, and to 
every hundred put two spoonfuls of the bett undistilled 
vinegar. 

They should be kept in small jars, and tied close with, 
bladder, for the air ^vill spoil them. 

Kote. Directions for making Fish Pics niU hefowirt 
under iJic head Pies. 



M- P03IESTIC COOKERY. 



P.^kT IL 



MEATS. 

To choose Meats. 

Viuison. — Ifliic fat be clear, bright, and tliiek, and the 
cleft part smooth and close, it is youirg; but it the cleft 
is r,i(ie and tough, it is old. To judge of its fevveetness, run 
a very sharp narrow knife into tlie shoulder or haunch, 
and you Av51i know bj the scent. 1^ ew people like it ■when 
it has much of ihe'hatd-gout. 

Beef. — If the flesh of ox-beef is young it ^vill have a 
fine smooth open grain, be of a good red, and feel tender. 
The fat should look white rather than yellow ; for when 
that is of a deep colour, the meat is seldom good : beef fed 
by oil-cakes is in general so, and the flesh is flabby. The 
grain of cow-beef is closer, and the fat whiter, than that of 
ox-beef; but the lean is not of so bright a red. Theg rain 
of bull-beef is closer still, the fat hard and skinny, the leaa 
of a deep red, and a stronger scent. Gx-beef is the re- 
verse. Ox-beef is the richest and largest ; but in small 
femilies, and to some tastes, heifer-beef is better if finely 
/ed. In old meat there is a streak of horn in the ribs of 
beef: the harder this is, the older; and the flesh is not 
finely flavoured. 

Veal. — 'ihe flesh of a bull-calf is firmest, but not so 
white. The fillet of the cow-colf is generally preferred 
for the udder. The whitest is not the most juicy, having 
been made so by frequent bier ding, and having had wliitini; 
to lick. 'Choose the meat of which the ki(hiey is well co- 
vered with white thick fat. If tlie bloody vein in the. 
shoulder looks blue, or of a bright red, it is newly killed ; 
but any other colour shows it stale. The other parts 
should be dry and wiiUe : if clannny or spotted, the meat 
is stale and bad. The ki<lney turns first in the loin, and 
the suet will not then be firm. 

Mutton. — Choose this by the fineness of its grain, good 
colour, and firm white fat. It is net the better for hdng 
y onpg ; if of a good breed and well fed, it h better for aj;e : 



Hind Quarter. 




Fore Quarter. 


1. Sirloin. 


11. 


Middle Rib ; four Ribs. 


2. Rump. 


12. 


Chuck ; three Ribs. 


3. Edge Bone. 


13. 


Shoulder or Leg of Mut- 


4. Buttock. 


ton Piece. 


5 Mouse Buttock. 


14. 


Brisket. 


6. Veiny Piece. 


15. 


Clod. 


7. Thick F.ank. 


16. 


Neck or Sticking Piece. 


8. Thin Flank. 


17. 


Shin. 


9. Leg. 


18. 


Cheek. 


10. Fore Rib ; five Ribs. 






T£ 


AL. 




1. Loin, best End. 


6. 


Neck, best End. 


2. Loin, Chump End. 


7. 


Neck, Scrag End. 


3. Fillet. 


8. 


Blade Bone. 


4. Hind Knuckle. 


9. 


Breast, best End. 


5. Fore Knuckle. 1 


10. 


Breast, Brisket End. 


MUX 


TOlf. 




1. Leg 


6. 


Shoulder. 


2. Loin, best End. 


7. 


Breast. 


3. Loin, Chump End. 


A Chine is two loins. 


4. Neck, best End. 


A Saddle is two Necks. 


5. Neck, Scrag End. 






POHK. 




VENISON^. 


1. The Sparerib. 


1. 


Haunch. 


2. Hand. 


2. 


Neck. 


3. Belly or Spring. 


3. 


Shoulder. 


4. Fore Loin. 


4. 


Breast. 


5. Hind Loin. 






6. Leg. 







but this only hoids with wetlier rauttou : the ^esb of the 
CAve is paler, add the texture fmer. Rani-muttoii is reiy 
strono-Savoiiredj the flesii is of a deep red, and the fat is 
spougy. 

- Lamb. — Obserre the neck of a fore quarter : if the vein 
is bluish, it is fresh ; if it lias a green or yellow cast, it is 
stale. lii the hind quarter, if there is a faint sniel! under 
the kidney, and the knuckle is limp, the meat is stale. If 
the eyes are sunk, the head is not fresh. Grass-lamb 
comes into season in April or 3Iay, and continues till Au- 
gust. House-lamb may be had in great towns almost all 
the year, but is in highest perfection in December and Ja- 
nuary. 

Pork. — Pinch the lean, and if yoiinij it will break. If 
the rind is tough, thick, and cannot easily be impressed by 
the finger, it is old. A thin rind is a merit in all pork. 
When fresh, the flesh will be smooth and cool ; if clammy, 
it is tainted. What is called measly pork is very unwhole- 
some; and may be known by the fat being full of kernels, 
which in good pork is nevec the case. Pork fed at still- 
houses does not answer for curing any way, the fat being 
spong}'. Dairy -fed pork is the best. 

Bacon. — If tlie rind is thin, the fat firm, and of a red 
tinge, the lean tender, of a good colour, and adhering to 
the bone, you may conclude it good, and not old. If there 
are yellow streaks in it, it is going, if not already rusty. 

Hams. — Stick a sharp knife under the bone : if it comes 
out with a pleasant smell, the ham isgoi'.d; but if the knife 
is daubed and has a bad scent, do not buy it. Kams short 
in tlie hock are best, and long-legged pigs are not to be 
chosen for any preparation of pork. 

Brawn. — The horny part of young brawn will feel mo- 
derately tender, and the flavour will be better; the rind 
of old will be hard. 
Observations on purchasing, keepings and dressing Meat. 

In every sort of provisions, the best of the kind goes far- 
thest ; it cuts out with most advantage, and affords most 
nourisjiment. Ptound of beef, fi! let of veal, and leg of mut- 
ton, are joints that bear a higher price, but as they have 
more solid meat, they desei-ve the preference. It is worth 
notice, however, that those joints which are inferior, may 
b.6 dressed as palatably j and being cheaper, they ought to 



46 DOMESTIC CCOKERV. 

be bought in turn ; for, ivhen they are weighed -with the 
prime pieces, it makes the price of these coine lower. 

In loins of meat, the long pipe that runs by the bone 
should be taken out, as it is apt to taint ; as also the ker- 
nels of beef. Rumps and edgebones of beef are often bruised 
by the blows the drovers give the beasts, and the part that 
has been struck always taints ; therefore do not purchase 
these joints if bruised. 

The shank-bones of mutton should be saved; and, after 
soaking and brushing, may be added to give richness to 
gravies or soups. They are also particularly nourishing 
for sick persons. 

When sirloins of beef, or loins of veal or mutton, come 
in, part of the suet may be cut off for puddings, or to cla- 
rlfy. 

Dripping will baste eyery thing as well as butter, except 
fowls and game ; and for kitchen pies, nothing else should 
be used. 

The fat of a neck or loin bf mutton makes a far lighter 
pudding than suet. 

Meat and vegetables that the frost has touched, should 
be soaked in cold water two or three hours before used, 
or more if they are much iced. Putting them into hot 
water, or to the fire, till thawed, makes it impossible for 
any heat to dress them properly afterwards. 

In warm Aveather, meat should be examined well whea 
it comes in; and if (lies have touched it, the part must be 
out off, and then well washed. In the height of summer, it 
is a verj' safe way to let meat that is to be salted lie an hour 
in very cold water, rubbing well any part likely to have 
been fly-blown : then w)pe it quite dry, and have salt ready 
aud mb it thoroughly in every part, throwing a handful 
over it besides. Turn it every day, and rub the pickle 
in, whi«h will make it ready for the table in three or four 
days. If it be very much corned, wrap it lu a m ell-fiour- 
cd cloth, aftor rubbing it with salt. This last jurthod will 
corn fresh beef fit for the table the day it comes in, but it 
must be put into t"lie pot when the water bcils. 

If the weather permit, meat eats much better for hang- 
ing two or three days before it is ealted. 



3IEAT. ■A? 

Tiie \vater in which meat has been boiled makes an ex- 
cellent soup for the poor, b}- adoing to it A-egetables, oat- 
meal, or peas. 

Roast-becf-boces, or shank-bones of ham, malie fine 
peas-soup ; and shciild be boiled with tJie peas the day be- 
fore eaten, that the fat may be tali en off. 

In some families great loss is sustained by the spoiling 
of meat. The best way to keep what is to be eaten unsalt- 
cd, is, as before directed, to examine it well, v.ipe it every 
day, and put some pieces of charcoal over it. If meat is 
brought from a distance in warm weather, the butcher 
should be ordered to cover it close, and bring it early in 
the morning ; but even then, if it is kept on the road while 
he serves the customers w ho live nearest to him, it wrill 
very likely be fly-blown. This happens often in the 
country. 

Wash all meat before you dress it : if for boiling, the col- 
our will be better for soaking ; but if for roasting, dry it. 
Boiling in a well-floured cloth will make meat white. 
Particular care must be taken that the pot is well skim- 
med the moment it boils, otherwise the foulness will be dis- 
persed over the meat. The more soups or broth are skim- 
med, the better and cleaner they w ill be. 

The boiler and utensils should be kept delicately clean. 

Put the meat into cold water, and (lour it well first. 

IMeat boiled quick will be hard ; but care must be taken 

that in boiling slow it does not stop, or the meat will be 

underdone. 

If the steam is kept in, the water will not lessen much"; 
therefore when you wish it to boil away, take off the cov 
or of the soup-pot. 

Vegetables should not be dressed with the meat, except 
carrots or parsnips with boiled beef. 

As to the length of time required for roasting and boil- 
ing, the size of the joint must direct ; as also the strength 
of the fire, the nearness of the meat to it, and in boiling, the 
regular tliough slow progress it makes ; for if the cook when 
told to hinder the copper from boiling quick, lets it stop 
from boiling up at all, the usual time will not be sufficient 
and the meat will be underdone. 



48 DOMESTIC COOKKRV. 

Weigii the meat ; and allow for all solid joiius, u quar- 
ter of au hour for every pound, and some minutes (from ten 
to twenty) over, according as the family like it done. 

A ham of twenty pounds will take four hours and a half, 
and others in proportion. 

A toDgue, if dry, takes four hours slow boiling, after 
soaking : a tongue out of pickle, from two hours and a 
half to three huurs, or more if very large ; it must be judg- 
ed by feeling whether it is very tender. 

A leg of pork, or of lamb, takes the full allowance of 
twenty miautes above a quarter of au hour to a pound. 

In roasting, beef of ten pounds will take above two 
hours and a half; twenty pounds will take throe hours 
and three quarter?. 

A neck of niUtton will take an hour and a half, if kept 
at a proper distance. A chine of pork, two hours. 

The meat should be put at a good distance from the 
fire, and brought gradually nearer when the inner part be- 
comes hot, wliich will prevent its being scorched while 
yet raw. Neat should he much basted ; and "wlien nearly 
done, floured to make it Icok frotlicd. 

Veal and mutton shcidd have a little paper put over 
the fat to preserve it. If not fat enough to allow for bast- 
ing, a little good dripping answers as well as butter. 

The cock should be careful not to run the spit throng 
the best parts; and should observe that it be well cleaned 
before and at the time of serving, or a black stain appears 
on the meat. In many joints the spit will pass into the 
bones, and run along tliem for some distance, so as not to 
injure the prime of the meat ; and the cook should have 
leaden skewers to balance it with : for want of which. 
Ignorant servants are often troubled at tlie time of serving. 

In ronsting meat it is a very good way to put a little salt 
and water into tlic dripping pan, and baste for a little while 
with this, before using its own fat or dripping. When dry, 
dust it wit!) flour, and baste as usual 

Salting meat before it is put to roast draws out the gravy : 
it should only be sprinkled when almost done. 

Time, distance, basting often, and a cl iir fire of a pro- 
per size for what is required, are the first articks of a good 
cook's attention in roast'ng. 

Old meatsdo not require so much dressing as young ; 



not that they are sooner done, but they can be eaten with 
the gravy more in. 

A piece of writing-paper should be twisted round the i>one 
at the knuckle of a le^: or sJiouider of lamb, mutton, or ven- 
ison, when roasted, before tiiey are s( rved. 

When you wish fried thims to look as well as possible, 
do them twice over with eag and crumbs. Bread tiiat is 
not stale enough to grate quite iinr, will not look well. The 
fat you fry in must always be boilin^c hot the moment the 
meat, fish, <fec. arc put in, and kept so till finished : a small 
quantity never fries well. 

To keep meat hot. — It is best to take it up when done, 
though the company may not be come ; set the dish over a 
pan of boiling water, put a deep cover over it so as not to 
toucii ti-e meat, and then tlirov; a cloth over that. This 
v.-ay will not (iry up the gravy. 

VENISON. 

To keep Venison. 

Preserve the vcii'.scn (ivy, wash it with milk and watev 
very clean, and ('ly it with clean clotiis till not the leasf 
damp remains, tiiCn dust pounded ginger over every par!, 
wliicli is a oood preventive against the fly. By thus mana- 
ging and watciiing, ll v, ill hang a fortnight. When to be 
used, wasli it with a little lukewarm water, aud dry it 
Pepper is likewise good to keep it. 

To dress Venison. 

A haunch of buck v.ill take tliree hours and a half, or 
three quarters, roasting : doe, only tlivee hours and a quar- 
ter. Venison should be rallicr under than over done. 

Spread a sheet of wliite paper with butter, and put it 
over the fat, firtt sprinkling it with a little salt ; then lay 
a coarse paste on slrong paper, and cover the haunch; 
tie it with fine packthread, and set it at a distance from 
the fire, whieli must be a good one. Baste it often : tea 
n]inutes before serving take off the paste, draw the meat 
nearer the fire, and b'lSte it with butter and a good deal 
of flour, to make it frotli up well. 

Gravy for it shonld be put into a boat, and not into the 
dish (unless there is none in the venison) and made thus : 
cut off the fat fron; two or three pounds of a loin of old 
mutton, and set in steaks on a gridiron for a few mi? ute^ 
juFt to brown one side ; put them into a sauce-pau with a 



50 DOMESTIC COOKERV. 

^n^jt cf water, cover quite close for an hour, and simmer 
It ^eotl} ; tlien uncover it, and stew till the gravy is re- 
duced to a pint. Sea&on with on^y salt. 
. Currant-jelly sauce must be served in a boat. 

Fonaerl^ pap-sauce was eaten with venison : wliich, as 
some still like it, it may be necessr^ry to direct. Grate 
white bread, and boil it with port Avine, water, and a lai g& 
stick of cinnamoi. ; and when quite smooth take out the 
oinnamon and add sugar. Claret may be used for it. 

Make the jelly-sauce thus : Beat some currant-jelly 
and a spoonful cr two of port wine, and set it over the fire 
till melted. Where jelly mns short put more wine, and 
a few lumps of sugar, to the jelly, and melt as above*. 
Serve with French beans. 

Hatinch, Neck, and Shoulder of Venison. 
Roast with paste as directed above, and the same sauce. 
7^0 .stew a sliGiddcr of Venison. 

Let the meat hang till you judge proper to dress it; then 
take out the bone, bent the meat witii a roUicg-pin, lay 
tome slices of mutton fat, that have lain a few hours in a 
little port wine, among it. sprinkle a little pepper and aiJ- 
••pice over it in fme powder, roll it up tight, and tie it. 
Set it in a stew-pan that will only just hold it, with some 
mutton or beef gravy not strong, half a pint of port wine, 
and some pepper and allspice. Simmer it close covered^ 
and as slow as you can, for three or four hours. Whea 
quite tender, take off the tape, set the meat on a dish, and 
strain the gravy over it. Serve with currant-jelly sauce. 

This is the best way to dress this joint, unless it is very 
fat, and then it should be roasted. The bone should te 
stewed with it. 

Breast of Venison. 

Do it as the shoulder, or make it into a small pasty. 
Hashed Venison 
Should be warmed with its own gravy, or some without 
reasoning, as before ; and only warmed through, not 
boiled. If there is no fat left, cut some slices ofmuttou- 
fat, set it on the fite with a little port wine and sugar, 
simmer till diy ; then put to the hash, and it will cat as 
"well as the fat of the venisoiL 

For Venison Pasty, look under the head Pastry ; a^ 
likewise sm exceTlent imitation. 



B5.EJb. il 

liEEF. 

To keep Beef. 

Tiie butcher shcuM take out the keineis in the neck- 
pieces "vvhere the shoulder clocs is taken off, two from each 
round of beef ; one in the middle, ^vhich is called the 
pope's eye ; the otlier from the flap : there is also one in 
the tJiick flank, in the middle ol the fat. If these are not 
taken cut, especial)} in the summer, salt ivill be of no use 
for keeping the meat sv^ cet. There is another kernel 
between the rump and ihe edgebone. 

As the butchers seldom attend lo this matter, the cook 
-liould take out the kernels ; and then rub the salt well in- 
to sue]} beef as is for boilic^^, and slightly spvinkle (hat 
V hich is for roasting. 

The flesh of cattle ih^t arc killed when not perfectly clcar- 

cil of food soon spoils. 'J'hcy should fast twenty-four liours in 

srinter, and double that time in summer, before being killed. 

To salt Beef or Pork, for eating immediately. 

The piece should not weigh more than five or six pounds. 
Salt it very thoroughly just before you put it into the pot ; 
fake a coarse cloth, flour it well, put the meat in, and fold 
it up close. Tut it into a pot of boiling water, and boilit 
as long as you would any other salt beef of the same size, 
and it will be as salt ?s if done four or five days. 

Great attention is requisite in salting meat : and in the 
country, where lart^e quantities are cured, this is of parti- 
cular importance. Beef and pork should be w ell sprinkled, 
and a few hours afterwards hung to drain, before it is rub- 
bed with the salt : which method, by cleansing the meat 
from the blood, serves to keep it from tasting strong. It 
should be turned every day ; and if wanted soon, should be 
rubbed as often. A salting-tub or lead may be used, and 
a cover to fit close. Those w ho use a good deal of salt 
meat ^\i\\ find it ansAver well to boil up the pickle, skim it, 
and when cold, pour it over meat that has been sprinkled 
and drained. Salt is so much increased in price, as to re^- 
quire gi-eat care in using it ; and the brine ought not to be 
thrown away, as is the practice of some, after once using. 
To salt Beef red ; yvhickis extremely good to eat fresh 
from the Pickle, or to hansr to dry. 

Qhoose a piece of beef w ith as little bone as you caD (Uie 
£ % 



^2 OOMESTIC COOKER i. 

flank is most proper), sprinkle it, and let it drain a day: 
then rub it with common salt, saltpetrt , and ba) salt, bui 
only a small proportion of ihe saltpetre, and you may add 
a few grains of cochineal, all in fine powder. Rub the 
pickle every day into the meat for a week, then only turn it. 

Li will be excellent ia eight days. In sixteen drain it 
from the pickle ; and let it be smoked at the ov en-mouth 
when heated with wood, or send it to the baker's. A few 
days will smoke it. 

A little of the coarsest sugar may be added to the salt. 

It eats well, boiled tender with greens or carrots. If ta 
-be grated as Dutch, then cut a Icaji bit, boil it till extreme- 
Xy tender, and while hot put it under a press. When cold 
.fold it in a sheet of paper, and it will keep in a dry place 
two or three months, ready for serving on bread and butter.. 
The Dutch way to salt Beef. 

"Take a lean piece of beef; rub it well with tveack ox 
brown sugar, and let it be turned often. In three days 
^vipe it, and salt it with connncn salt and saltpetre beatca 
fine; rub these well in, and turn it every day for a fort- 
aight. Roll it tight in a coarse cloth, and press it under a 
large weight ; hang it to dry in a wood-smoke, but turn it 
Upside down every day. Boil it in pump-water, and press 
i.t ; it will grate or cut into shivers, like Dutch beef. 

BccJ-a-la-modc. 
, Choose a piece of thick flank of a fine heifer or ox. Cut 
Into long slices some fat bacon, bat quite free from yellow; 
let each bit be near an inch thick: dip them into vinegar, 
and then into a seasoning ready prepared of salt, black pep- 
per, allspice, and a clove, all in fine powder, w ith parsley, 
chives, thyme, savoury, and knotted marjoram, shred as^ 
small as possible, and well ndxed. With a sharp knife 
make holes deep enough to let in the larding ; then iiib the 
beef over with the seasoning, and bind it up tight with 
tape. Set it in a well-tinned pot over a fire or rather stove : 
tiiree or four ornons wust be fried brown and put to the 
t)erf, with two or three carrots, one turnip, a head or two 
of celery, a*!d a small qua^itity of water; let it simmer 
gently ton or twelve hours, or till extremel) teuder, turning 
'th.e meat twice* 



Put the gravy iuto a pau, remove xhit fat, keep the J eef 
covered, then put them tooether, and add a gi;\ss cf port 
^viue. Take olf the t^pe, and serve with the vegetables; 
or you may ?traiu ihem oft', aud send them up cut into 
dice for garnish. Ouioos roas>ed, and then stewed with 
the grav} , are a great improvcn.ent. A tea-cupful of vi" 
negar should be stewed wiih tlie beef. 

A Fricandcau of Bctf. 

Take a nice bit of lean beef; lard it with bacon seasoc-- 
ed with pepper, salt, cloves, mace, and allspice. Put h in- 
to a stew-pan with a pint of broth, a glass of white wine, a 
bundle of parsley, all sorts of sweet herbs, a clove of gar- 
lick, a shalot or two, four cloves, pepper and salt. When 
the meat is beconie tcn<ler, cover it close : skim the sauce 
well, and strain it : set it on the fire, and let it boil till it is 
reduced to a glaze. Glaze the larded side with this, and 
starve the meat on sorrcl-sauce. 

To stew a Rump of Beef. 

Wash it well ; and season it liigh with pepper, Cayenne^ 
?alt, allspice, three cloves, and a blade of mace, all in line- 
powder. Bind it up tight, and lay it into a pot that wilt 
just hold it. Fry three large onions sliced, and put them 
to it, with throe carrots, two turnipg, a shalot, four cloves, a 
blade of mace, and some celery. Cover the meat with good 
beef-broth, or weak gravy. Simmer it as gently as pcssi* 
ble for several hours, till quite tender. Clear oil the fat; 
an<l add to the gravy half a pint cf port Aviue, a glass of 
Tinegar, and a large spoonful cf ketchup: sinmier half an 
liour and serve in a deep dish. Half a pint of table beer 
may be added. The herbs to be used should be parsley, 
thyme, basil, savoury, marjoram, penny-royal, knotted mar- 
joraQj, and some chives if you can get them, but observe to 
proportion the quantities to the pungency of the several 
sorts; let tlierebe a good handful all together. 

Garnish with carrots, turnips, or truGles and morels, or 
pickles of different colours, cut small, and laid in illtle 
heaps separate; chopped parsley, cliives, beet-root, Sic. If 
when done, the gravy is too much to fill the dish, take only 
a part to season for serving, but the less water the i^etter; 
end to increase the richness, udd a fe>t' IxcfbcMes aud shanX^ 
^f ujuttou ki fe-tewin^. 



54 liOl^lLSTlC cooKfnv. 

A spooniul or two of made mustard is a great improve- 
lueut to the gravj. 

liiimp roasted is excellent: but in the couutry it is gen- 
erally sold whole with the edgebone, or cut across histead 
of lenttlnva} s us in cities where one piece is for boiling, 
and tJie rump lor htewina; or roasting. This must be at- 
tended to, the whole bein? too large to dress together. 
Stewed Rwnp another rvo.y. 

Half rofibt it ; then put it into a large pot with three 
pints of vratcr, oi :e of smali-beer, one of port-wine, some 
salt, three or four spoonfuls of vinegar, two of ketchup, a 
bunch of sweet herbs of various kinds (sucli as burnet, tarra- 
gon, parsley, thyme, basil, savoury, penny-royal, marjoram, 
knotled-marjoram, and a leaf or two of S3ge), some onions, 
elovcs, and Cayenne; cover it close, and simmer till quite 
tender > two or three hours will do it. When done lay it 
into a deep dish, set it over hot water, and cover it close. 
iSkim tlje gravy ; put in a few pickled mushrooms, truflles 
morels, and oysters, if agreeable, but it is very good witli- 
out; thicken the gravy with flour and butter, and heat it 
with the above, and pour over the beef. Forcemeat-balls, 
of veal, anchovies, bacon, suet, herbs, spice, bread, and eggs 
to bind, are a great improvement. 

To stuv Brisket of Beef . 

Put the part which has the hard fat into a stew-pot with 
a small quantity of water : let it boil up, and skim it tho- 
roughly ; tjien add carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and 
a few pepper-corns. Stew till extremely tender; then 
take out the flat hones, and remove all the fat from the 
soup. Either serve that and the meat in a tureen : or the 
soup alone, and the meat on a dish, i-arnished with some 
vegetables. The following sauce is much admired, serv- 
ed with the beef : — ^Take half a pint of the soup, and mix it 
with a spoonful of ketchup, a glass of port wine, a teaspoo i- 
ful of made mustard, a little flour, a bit of butter, and salt : 
boil altogether a few minutes, then pour it round the meat. 
Chop capers, walnuts, red cabbage, pickled cucumbers, 
-and chives or parsley, small, and put in separate heap? 
over it. 

To press Bfff. 

Salt a bit of brisket, thin part of the flank, or the topB 
Q|"thc yibs, with salt and saltpetre five days, theo boil it 



BE HP. $4 

gently till extremely tender ; put it under a great weight 
or in a cheese-press, till perfectly cohl. 

It eats excellently cold, and for sandwiches* 
To make Hunter's Beef, 

To a round of beef that wei-^hs twenty-five pounds, take 
^hree ounces of saltpetre, tiiree ounces of the coarsest sug- 
ar, an ounce of cloves, a nutmci^ half an ounce of allspice, 
and three handfuls of common suit, all in the finest powder. 

The beef should han«: two or three days : then rub the 
above well into it, and turn ai]d rub it every day for two 
or three weeks. Tlie bone must be taken out at first. 
When to be dressed, dip it into cold water, to i;ike off lh3 
loose spice, bind it up tight with t-^pe, and put it into a pan 
with a tea-cupful cf water at the bottom, covei the top of 
the Tiicat with slired =uet, and the prm witli a brown ciaist 
and pTpcr, and bake it five or six hours. When cold, 
t'.ike GlFthc paste and tape. 

The gravy is very fiac ; and a little of it adds greatly 
to the flavour of any hash, soup. Sec. 

Iloih the gravy and the beef will keep some time. The 
meat should be cut witli a very sharp knife, and quite 
smooth, to prevent waste. 

An excellent Mode of dressing Beef 

Hang three ribs three or four days ; take out the bones 
ft-om the whole length, sprinkle it with salt, roll the meat 
tight, and roast it. JSTothing can look nicer. The above 
done with sices, &c. and baked as hiuiter's eef, is ex.*- 
cellcat. 

To collar Beef 

Choose the thin end of the flank of fine mellow beef but 
not too fat : lay it into a dish with salt and saltpetre, turn 
and rub it every day for a w^ek, and keep it cool. Then 
take out every bone and gristle, remove the skin of the in- 
side part, and cover it tliick witii the following seasoning 
cut small : a large handful of parsley, the same of sage, 
some thyme, majoram, and penny-royal, pepper, salt, and 
allspice. Roll the meat up as tig-iit as possible, and bind it» 
then boil it gently for seven or eight hours. A cloth must 
be put round before the tape. Put the beef under a good 
weight while hot, without undoing it : the shape will then 
be oval. Part of a breast of veal rolled ia with the beef ^ 
looks and eats very vrell. 



5d DOMESTfC COOKERY. 

Beefsteaks 
Should be cut from a rump that has hung a few days. Broil 
theiTi over a very clear or charcoal Arc : put into the dish 
a little miuced shalot, and a table-spoonful of ketchup : 
and rub a bit of butter on the steak the moment of serving. 
It sliould be turned often, that the gravy may not be drawn 
out on either side. 

This dish requires to be eaten so hot and fresh done, 
that it is not in perfection if served with any thing else. 
Pepper and salt should be added when taking it off the 
fire. 

Beefsteaks and Oi/stersauce. 

Strain off the liquor from the oysters, and throw them in- 
to cold water to take off the grit, while you simmer the li- 
quor with a bit of mace and lemon peel; then put the oys- 
ters in, &te\v tiiem a fev/ minutes, and a little cream if you 
have it, and some butter rubbed in a bit of flour; let them 
loll up once ; and have rump-steaks, well seasoned and 
broiled, ready for throwiitf^ the oyster sauce over, the mo» 
ment ) ou are to serve. 

Beef-Steaks, another way. 

Beat tlurn a little Avitli a rollinr-pin, flour and season, 
then fry with sliced onion of a fine light brown; lay the 
steaks into a stew-pan, and pour as much boiling water over 
them as will serve for sauce : stew them very gently half 
an hour, and add a spoonful of ketchup, or walnut-liquor, 
before you serve. 

Italian Beefsteaks. 

Cut a fine larcfe steak from a rump that has been ^Ye\\ 
hun<r, ov it will do from any tender part : beat it, and season 
with pepper, salt, and onion; lay it in an iron-stew-pan that 
has a cover to fit quite close, and set it by the side of the 
(ire without water. Take care it does not burn, but it 
must have a strong heat; in two or three hours it will be 
euite tender, and tlien serve with its ov.'u gravv. 
BeefCoUop. 

Cut thin slicesof beef f -om the rump, or any other ten- 
der part, and divide them into pieces three inches long? 
beat them Avith the blade of a knife, and flour them. Fry 
the coUops quick in butter two minutes; then lay them in 
to a small stew-pan, and cover them with a pint of gravy ; 



BEEF. a 7 

aU(i a bit of butier rubbed in flour, pcppt^r, saU, tlic least 
bit of shalot shred as fine as possirlc, half a walnut, four 
small pickled cucumbers, aud a tea-spoonful of Cvapers cut 
small. Take care that it does not boil ; and serve the stcAir 
ia a very hot covered dish. 

Bccf-Palates, 

Simmer them in water several hours, till the}' will peel; 
tjieu cut the palates into slices, or leave them whole, as you 
choose; and stew them in a rich irravy till as tender as 
possibje. Before you serve, season them with Cayenne, 
salt, and ketchup. If the gravy was drawn clear, add also 
some butter and flour. 

If to be served white, boil them in milk, and stew them 
in a fricnsFce-saucc : adding cream, butter, flour, aud mush- 
room pow-^'er, and a little pounded mace. 

B erf -Cakes for a sidr-cUsk of dressed Meat. 

Pound some beef that is underdone with a little fat ba- 
con, or ham ; season with pepper, salt, and a little shalot, 
or garlick : mix them well ; and make it into small cakes 
t}?ree inches long, andlialf afi wide and thick; fry them in 
a li^ht brown, and serve them in a good thick gravy. 
To pot Beef, 

Take two pounds of lea; beef, rub it with saltpetre, and 
let it lie one ni«;ht : then salt with common sail, and cover 
it with water four days in a small pan. Dry it -with a 
cloth, and season with black pepper; lay it into as small a 
pan as will hold it, cover it with coarse paste, and bak(: 
it five hours in a veiy cool oven. Put no liquor in. 

AVhen cold, pick out the strings and fat; beat the meat 
very line with a (|uarter of a poufid of fine butter just warm, 
but not oiled, and as much of the gravy as will make it in- 
to a paste ; put it into very small pots, and cover them with 
melted butler. 

Anvilicrw:ii], — Take beef t'lat has been dressed, either 
boiled or roasted ; beat it in a mortar with some pepper, 
salt, a few cloves, grated nutmeg, and a little fine butter 
just warm. 

This eats as well, but the colour is not so fine. It is a 
j^ood wav for usin^ the remains of a lar£;e ]ointj 

To dnss ih." Inside of a cold Sirloin ofBcff 

Cut out all the me^t, and a little fat, into pieces as thick 
as Tour finirer. and two inches Ions:: diedjie it with flour; 



68 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

and fry in butter, of a nice bro\rn : drain thebultrrfrcu: 
the meat and toss it up in a rich gravy, srasoncd ^witli pep- 
per, salt, anchovy, and slialot. Do net let it boil on nr^y 
account. Before you serve add two spoonfuls of vineirar. 
Garnisli with crimped parsley. 

Fricassee of cold Roast-Bcrf. 
Cut the beef into very thin slices, shred a handful of 
parsley very small, cut an onion into quarters, and put all 
Together into a stew-pan, ^vith a piece of butter and some 
strong broth : season with salt and pepper, and s^.mmer 
very gently a quarter of an hour ; then mix into it the 
yolks of two eggs, a glass of port wine, and a spoonful of 
vinegar ; stir it quick, n»b the dish with shalot, and turn 
the fricassee into it. 

To dress cold Berf that has not hecn done enough, 
called Beef-Olives. 
Cut slices half an iiicli thick, and four inches square^ 
lay on them a forcemeat of crumbs of bread, shalot, a little 
suet, or fat, pepper, and salt. Roll them, and fasten with 
a small skewer : put them iiitQ»a stew-pan with some gravy 
anade of the beef-bones, or the gravy of the meat, and a 
ispoonful or two of water, and stew them till tender. Fresh 
.meat will do. 

To dress the sa-mc, called Sa7idirs. 
Mince beef or mutton, smnll, with onion, pepper, and 
salt ; add a little i: ravy ; put it into scollop-sliells, or sau- 
cers, making them three parts full, and fill them up with 
potatoes, maslied with a little cream ; put a bit of butter on 
the top, and brown them in an o\ en or belbrc the fire, or 
witli a salamander. 

To dress the same, called Cecils. 
Mince any kind of meat, crumbs of bread, a good deal of 
wnion, some anchovies, lemcn-pcel, salt, rutmeg, chopped 
parsley, pepper, and a bit of butter warm, and mix these 
over a fire for a few muiutes ; when cool enough, make 
them up into balls of ll'.e bize and shape of a turkey's egg, 
with an egg ; sprinkle them with fine crumbs, and thcnfr} 
them of a yellow brown, and serve >■. ith gravy as before 
directed for Beef-olives. 

To viincc Beef. 
Shred the underdone part fine, Avith some of the fat; 
put it into a small stew-pan, with some onion or shalot (a 



BEEF. 5§ 

very little will do), a little ^ater, pepper, and salt : boil it 
till the onion is quite soft; then put some of the j-ravy of 
the meat to it, and the mince. Don't let it boil. Have a 
small hot dish with sippets of bread ready, and pour the 
mince into it, but first mix a lar^je spoonful of vinegar with 
it : if shaIot-vine«;ar is used, there will be do need of the 
onion nor the raw shalot. 

To hash Beef. 

Do it the same as in the last receipt; only the meat is 
Co be in slices, and you may add a spoonful of walnut li* 
quor or ketchup. 

*^* Observe, that it is owing to boiling hashes or min- 
xes, that they get hard. All sorts of stews, or meat dress- 
ed a second time, should be only simmered; and this last 
only hot through. 

Beef-a-la-v i ngrette. 

Cut a slice of underdone boiled beef three inches thick, 
and a little fat ; stew it in half a pint of water, a glass of 
white-wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, and an onion ; season 
it with three cloves pounded, and pepper, till the liquor is 
iiearl}' wasted a«'ay, turning it once. When cold, serve 
it, . Strain off the gravy, and mix it with a little vinegar 
for sauce. 

Round of Beef 
Should be carefully salted, anvl wet with the pickle for 
eight or ten days. The bone should be cut out first, and 
the beef skewered and tied up to make it quite round. It 
may be stulTed with parsley, if approved : in which case the 
holes to admit the parsley must be made with a sharp- 
pointed knife, and the parsley coarsely cut and stuffed in 
tight. As soon as it boils it should be skimmed, and af- 
terwards kept boiling very gently. 

Rolled Beef that equals Hare^ 

Take the inside of a large sirloin, soak it in a glass of 
port wine and a glass of vinegar miKed, for forty-eight 
hours ; liave ready a very fine stuffing, and bind it up tight. 
Roast it on a hanging-spit ; and baste it with a glass of port 
wine, the same quantity of vinegar, and a tea-spoonlul of 
pounded allspice. Larding it improves the look and fla- 
vour : serve with a rich gravy in the dish ; currant-jell}^ 
^fld melted butter, in tureens. 
F 



UU DOMESTIC COOKER!. 

To roast Tongue and Udder. 

After cleaning the tongue well, salt it with common salt 
and saltpetre three days; then boil it, and likewise a fine 
young udder with some fat to it, till tolerably tender; then 
tie the thick part of one to the thin part of the other, and 
roast the tongue and udder together. 

Serv'e them with good gravy, and currant-jelly sauce. 
A few cloves should be stuck in the udder. This is an 
excellent dish. 

Some people like neats' tongues cured with the root, in 
which case they look much larger but otherwise the 
root must be cut off close to the gullet, next to the tongue, 
but without taking away the fat under the tongue. The 
root must be soaked in salt and water, and extremely well 
cleaned, before it is dressed ; and the tongue should be laid 
in salt for a day and a night before pickled. 
To pickle Tongues for boiling. 

Cut off the root, but leave a little of the kernel and fat. 
Sprinkle some salt, and let it drain from the slime till next 
day : then for each tongue mix a large spoonful of com* 
mon salt, tiie same of course sugar, and about half as much 
of saltpetre ; rub it w ell in, and d' so every day. In a 
iveek^dd another heaped spoonful of salt. If rubbed 
eveiy^ day, a tongue will be ready in a fortnight ; but if 
only turned in the pickle daily, it will keep four or five 
weeks without being too salt. 

When you dry tongues write the date on a parchment 
and tie it on. Smoke them, or dr}- them plain, if you like 
best. 

When it is to be dressed, boil it till extremely tender; 
allowfivehotirs; and if done sooner, it is easily kept hot. 
'J'he longer kept after drying, the higher it will be ; if hard, 
it may reqisiie soaking three or four hours. 

Another ^.vay. — Clean as above; for two tongues allow 
an ounce of saltpetre, and an ounce of sal-pnuiella; rub 
ihem well. In two days after well rubbing, cover thera 
with conmion salt, turn them every day for three weeks^ 
th«Mi dry them, and rub over theui bran, and smoke them. 
in ten days they v» ill bo ^Lii io eat. Keep in a cool dry 
place. 



BEEF. #1 

To stew Tons^iu. 

Salt a tongue with saltpetre and conimoQ salt for a veek, 
turning it every day. Boil it tender enough to peel : 
vhen done, stew it in a moderately strong gravy ; season 
with soy, mushroom ketchup, Cayenne, pounded cloves, 
and salt if necessary. 

Serve with truffles, morels, and mushrooms. In both 
this receipt and the next, the roots must be taken off the 
tongues before salting, but some fat left. 

An excellait way of doing Tongues to eat cold. 

Season with common salt and saltpetre, brown sugar, a 
little bny-salt, pepper, cloves, mace, and allspice, in fine 
powder, for a fortnight : then ta- e away the pickle, put the 
tongue into a small pan, and lay some butter on it : cover 
it with brown crust, and bake slowly till so tender that a 
straw would go through it. 

The thin part of tongues, when hung up to dry, grates 
like hung-beef, and also makes a fine addition to the fla- 
vour of oralets. 

Beef -heart. 

Wash it carefully ; stuff with pieces of bacon, and spic«, 
and serve with rich gravy, and currant-jelly sauce. 

Hash with the same, and port wine. 

Stewed Ox-cheeky plain. 

Soak and cleanse a fine cheek the day before it is to be 
eaten ; put it into a stew-pot that will cover close, with 
three quarts of water ; simmer it after it has first boiled 
up and been well skimmed. In two hours put plenty o§ 
carrots, leeks, two or three turnips, a bunch of sweet herbs, 
some whole pepper, and four ounces of allspice. Skim it 
often ; when the meat is tender, take it out ; let the soup 
get: cold, take off the cake of fat, and serve the soup sepa- 
rate or with the meat. 

It should be of a fine brown; which might be done by 
rmrnt sugar ; or by frying some onions quite brown with 
flour, and simmering them with it. This last way im- 
proves the flavour of all soups and gravies of the browu 
kind. r 

If vegetables are not approved in the soup, they may 
be taken out, and a small roll be toasted, or bread fried 
Slid added, Celer^^ is a sfreat addition, aad should a]^ 



62 DOMFSTIC COOKER^. 

ways be served. Where it is not to be got, tlie seed cl 

It gves quite as good a flavour, boikd-in, and strained ofF. 

To dress an Ox-chcck another wai/^ 

Soak half a head three hours, and clean it with plenty 
of water. Take the meat oft" the bones, and put it into a 
pan with a large onion, a bunch of sweet berbs, some 
bniised allspice, pepper, and salt. 

Lay the bones on the top ; pour en two or three quarts 
of water, and cover the pan close witii brown paper, or a 
dish that will fit close. Let it stand eight or ten hours 
m a slow oven ; or simmer it by the side of the fire, or 
on a hot hearth. When done tender, put the meat into 
a clean pan, and let it get cold. Take the cake of fat off, 
and warm the head in pieces in the scup. Put what vege- 
tables you choose. 

MarrotV'bofics. 

Cover the top with floured cloth ; boil them, and serv^ 
with dry toast. 

Tripe 
May be served in a tureen, stewed with milk and onioa 
till tender. Melted butter for sauce. 

Or fry it in small bits dipped in batter. 

Or stew the thin part, cut it into bits, in gravy : thickea 
with flour and {gutter, and add a little ketchup. 

Or fricassee it with white sauce. 
Soused Tripe, 

Boll the tripe, but not quite tender ; then put it int« 
salt and water, wliich must be changed every day till it is 
all used. When you dress the tripe, d«p it into a batter 
of flour and eggs, and fiy it of a good brown. 

Ox fee t^ or Coiv-hcels^ 
May be dressed in various ways, and are very nutritious 
in all. 

Boil thera ; and serve in a napkin, with melted butter, 
mustard, and a large spoonful of vinegar. 

Or boil them very tender, and serve them as a browo 
fricassee : the liquor will do to make jelly sweet or relish- 
ing, and likewise to give richness to soups or gravies. 

Or cut them into four parts, dip them into an v.^*^^ and 
then flour and fry them ; and fry onions (if you l^ke thenA 
l"o serve round. Sauce as above. 

Or bake fhcm as for wftck-triTt!?.^ 



▼EAL. 63^ 

VEAL. 

To keep Veal. 

The nrst part that turns bad of a leg of veal, is vhere 
the udder is skewered back. 1 he skewer should be taken 
cut, and both that and the part under it wiped ever}' daj", 
\}j wliich means it w^ill keep good three or four days in 
hot weather. Take care to cut out the pipe that nins 
along the chine oi a loin of veal, as you do of beef, to hin- 
der it from tainting. The skirt of the breast of veal is 
likewise to be t.:ken off; and the inside oi tlie breast wiped 
and scraped and sprinkled with a little salt. 
Leg of Veal. 

Let the fillet be cut large or small, as bests suits the 
number of your company. Take out the bone, fill the 
space with a fine stuffing, and let it be skewered quite 
round ; and send the large side uppern ost. When half 
roasted, if not before, put a paper over the fat ; and take 
care to allow^ a sufficient time, and put it a good distance 
from the fire, as the meat is very solid ; serve with melted 
butter poured over it. — You may pot some of it. 
Kmtckle cf Veal. 

As few people are ford of boiled veal, it may be well to 
leave the knuckle small, and take off some cutlets or col- 
lops before it be dressed ; hut as the knuckle will keep lon- 
ger than the fillet, it is best not to cut off the slices till 
wanted. Break the bones to make it take less room ; wash 
it veil; and put it into a sauce-pan with three onions, a 
blade of niace or two, and a few pepper-corns ; cover it 
with water, and simmer till quite ready. In the mean 
time some macaroni should be boiled w ith it if approved, 
©r rice, or a little rice four, to give it a small degree of 
thickness; bu* don't put too much. Before it is served, 
add half a pint of milk and cream, and let it come up 
either with or without the meat. 

Or fry the knuckle w:th sliced onion and butter to a 
good brown ; and have ready peas, lettuce, onion, and a 
cucumber or two, stewed in a small quantity of water an 
honr ; then add these to the veal ; and stew it till the meat 
is tender enough to eat, but not overdone. Throw iu pep*, 
per, salt, and a bit of shred mint, and serve all together. 

J 2 



64 DOMESTIC CCOKERY. 

Shoulder of Veal, 

Cut off the knuckle, for a stew or gravy. Roast tlje 
other part for stuffing : you may lard it. Serve wich melt- 
ed butter. 

The blade-bone, with a good deal of meat left on, eats 
extremely well with mushroom or oyster-sauce, or uuish- 
room-ketchup in butter. 

Neck of Veal. 

Cut off the scrag to boil, and cover it with onion-sauce. 
It should be boiled in milk and water. Parsley and but- 
ter may be served with it, instead of onion-sauce. 

Or it may be stewed with whole rice, small onions, and 
pepper-corns, with a very little water. 

Or boiled and eaten with bacon and greens. 

The best end may be either roasted, broiled as steaks?* 
or made into pies. 

Neck of Veal a la-braise. 

ILard the best end with bacon rolled in parsley chopped 
,llne, salt, pepper, and nutmeg : put it into a tosser, and 
cover it with water. Put to it tlie scrag-end, a little leaii 
Jjacou or ham, an onion, two carrots, two heads of celery, 
and about a glass of Madeira wine. Steiv it quick two 
hours, or till it is tender, but not too much. Strain off the 
liquor : mix a little flour and butter in a stew-pan till 
browu, and lay the veal in this, the upper side to the botr 
torn of the pan. Let it be over the fire till it gets colour-- 
ed : then lay it into the dish, stir some of the liquor in and 
boil it up, skim it nicely, and squeeze orange or lemon-juice^ 
hito it. 

Breast of Veal. 

Before roasted, if large, the two ends may be taken off 
and fried to stew, or the whole may be roasted. Butter 
iliould be poured over it. 

If any be left, cut the pieces into handsome sizes, put 
tfiem into a stew-pan, and pour some broth over it ; or if 
you liave no broth, a little water will do ; add a bunch of 
herbs, a blade or two ofp^acc, Fome pepper, and an ancho- 
vy ; ttew till the meat is teider, thicken with butter and 
f.our, and add a little ketchup; or {he whole breast may 
bt stewed, after cutting off the two ends* 



Serve the sweetbread whole upon it ; which may either 
i5e stewed, or parboiled, aud then covered with crumbri 
herbs, pepper aod salt, and browned in a Dutch oven. 

If you have a few raushroonis, tiuffies, aud more is, stev/ 
them with it, and serve. 

Boiled breast of veal, smothered with onion-sauce, isa^ 
excellent dish, if not old nor too faL 

To roll a breast of Veal. 

Bone it, take off the thick skin and gristle, and beat the 
meat with a rolling-pin. Season it with herbs chopped 
very fine, mixed with salt, pepper, aud mace. Lay some 
thick slices of fine ham ; or roll it into two or three calves'^ 
tongues of a fine red, boiled first an hour or two and skin- 
ned. Bind it up tight in a cloth, and tape it. Set it over 
the fire to sinmier in a small quantity of water till it is 
quite tender : this will take some hours. liay it on the 
dresser, with a board and weight on it till quite cold. 

Pigs or calves feet boiled and taken from the bones, may 
be put in or round it. The different colours laid in layers 
look well when cut ; and you may put in yolks of eggi 
boiled, beet-root, grated ham, and chopped parsley, in dif< 
ferent parts. 

Another way. 

When it is cold, take off the tape, and pour over it the 
liquor; which must be boiled up twice a week, or it will 
aot keep. 

Chump of Veal a la-daiihe. 

Cut oiTthe chump end of the loin; take out the edge- 
bone ; stuff the hollow with good forcemeat, tie it up tight, 
and lay it in a stew-pan with the bone you took out, a lit- 
tle faggot of herbs, an anchovy, two blades of mace, a few 
white peppers, and a pint of good veal-broth. Cover the 
veal with slices of fat bacon, and lay a sheet of Avhite pa- 
per over it. Cover ihe pan close, sinmier it two hours, 
then take out the bacon, and glaze the veal. — Serve it oq 
mushrooms, or with sorrel-sauce, or what else you please* 
Veal rolls of either cold Meat or fresh. 

Cut thin slices ; and spread on them a fine seasonino; of 
a very few crumbs, a little chopped bacon or scraped ham, 
and a little suet, parsley, aud shalot (or instead of the pars- 
ky and shalot, some fresh mushrooms stewed and raiQced)^, 
pepper, &alt^ and a small piece of pounded mace^ 



66 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

This stufling may either fill up the roll like a sausa^Cj 
or be rolled with the meat. In either cast tie it u[> \try 
tight, and stew it very slowly in a gravy and a glass of 
sheny. 

Serve it when tender, after skimming it nicely. 
Harrico of real. 

Take the best end of a small neck : cut the bone short, 
but leave it whole ; then put it into a stew-pan just cover- 
ed with brown gravy ; and when it is nearly done, have 
ready a pint of boiled peas, six cucumbers pared and sli- 
ced, and two cabbage lettuces cut Into quarters, all stewed 
in a little good broth : put them to the veal, and let them 
simmer ten mjnutes. A¥hen the Veal is in the dish, pour 
the sauce and vegetables over it, and lay the lettuce with 
Ibrcemeat balls round it. 

A Viinchn cf cold Veal or Fowl. 

Stew a few small mushrocms in their own liquor and a 
bit of butter, a quarter of an hour; mince them \ery small, 
and add them (with thtir liquor) to minced veal, with also 
a little pepper and salt, some cream, and a bit of butter 
rubbed in less than half a tea spoonful of fiour. Simmer 
three or four minutes, and serve on thin sippets of bread. 
M bleed Veal. 

Cut cold veal as fine as possible, but do not chop it. Put 
to it a very little lemon-peel shred, two grates of nutmeg, 
some salt, and four or five spoonfuls of either a little weak 
broth, milk, or water; simmer these gently with the meat, 
buf take care not to let it boil ; and add a bit of butter 
rub] ed in fiour. Put sippets of thin toasted bread, cut 
into a tliree-cornered shape, round the dish. 
- To pot Veal 

Cold fillet makes the finest potted veal ; or you may 
do it as follows : 

Season a large slice of the fillet before it is dressed, with 
seme mace, pepper-corns, and two or three cloves ; lay it 
close into a pottinji p*^n ♦hat Avill but iust hold it, fill it up 
with water, and bik- it three hours; then pound it quite 
iHuall in a mortar, and add salt to taste: put a Trtle s:ravy 
that was baked to it in pounding, ^!f to be eaten soon ; other- 
wise only a little butter just melted. When done, covcv 
h over with butters 



VEAL. 67 

To pot Veal or Chicken with Ham. 

Pound some col<l veal or white of chicken, seasoned as 
uiirected m the last article, ami put layers otit with layers 
of liatn pounded or rather shred : press each down, and 
cover with butter. 

Cutlets Maintcnon, 

Cut slices about three quarters of an inch thick, beat 
them Avith a roliiog-pin, and wet tbeni on both sides with 
^%%' dip the?n into a se?sonin^ of bread-crumbs, parsley, 
thyme, knotted marjoram, pepper, salt, and a little nutmeo; 
grated : then put them into papers folded over, and broil 
them ; and have in a boat melted butter, with a little 
mushroom ketchup. 

Ciitlds another way. 

Prepare as above, and fry tliem : lay tliem into a dish, 
and keep them hot ; dredge a little flour, and put a bit of 
butter into the pan ; brown it, then pour a little boiling 
water into it, and boil quick ; season with pepper, salt, and 
ketchup, and pour over them. 

Other ways. — Prepare as before, anil dress the cutlets 
in a Dutch oven ; pour over them melted butter and 
mushrooms. 

Or, pepper, salt, and broil them, especially neck-steaks. 
They are excellent without herbs. 
Veal Collops. 

Cut long thin collops ; beat them well : and lay on them 
a bit of thin bacon of the same size, and spread forcemeat 
on that, seasoned high, and also a little garlick and Cay- 
enne. Roll them up tight, about the size of two fingers^ 
but not more than two or three inches long : put a very 
small skewer to fasten each firmly ; ri:b eg,g over ; fry 
them of a fine brown, and pour a rich brown gravy over. 
To dress Collops quick. 

Cut them as thin as paper with a very sharp knife, and 
in small bits. Throw the skin, and any odd bits of the veal, 
into a little water, with a dust of pepper and salt: set them 
on the fire while you beat the collops : and dip them into 
a seasoning of herbs, bread, pepper, salt- and a scrape of 
nutmeg, but first wet them in es^. Then put a bit of but- 
ter into a fr}''iug-pan, and £;ive the cnjlops a very quick fry ; 
for as thev arc so thin, two minntes will do them on both 



68 D03IESTIC COOKERY".- 

sides ; put tl^em into a hot dish before the fire ; then 
strain and thicken the gravy, give it a boil in the fiTing 
pan, aud pour it over the collops. A little ketchup is an 
improvement. 

Another way. — Fry them in butter, only sea sod ed with 
salt and popper ; (hen simmer them in gravy, either white 
or brown, with bits of bacon served with them. 

If white add lemon-peel and mace, and some cream. 
Scallop of cold Veal or Chicken. 

Mince the meat extremely small ; and set it over the 
fire with a scrape of nutmeg, a little pepper and salt, and 
a little cream, for a few miuutes ; then put it into the 
scallop-shells, and fill them with crumbs of bread, over 
which put some bits of butter, and brown them before the 
fire. 

Either veal or chicken looks and eats well prepared in 
ibis way, and lightly covered with crumbs of bread fried j 
or these may be put on in little heaps. 
Fricandeau of VeaL 

Cut a large piece from the fat side of the leg, about nine 
inches long and half as thick and broad ; beat it with the 
rolling-pin ; take off the skin, and trim off the rough edges. 
Lard the top and sides : and cover it with fat bacon, and 
liien with Avhite pepper. Lay it into the stew-pan with any 
pieces of undressed veal or mutton, four onions, a carrot 
sliced, a faggot of sweet herbs, four blades of mace, a pint 
of good veal or mutton broth, and four or five ounces of lean 
ham or gammon. , Cover the pan close, and let it stew 
slowly three hours ; then take up the meat, remove all the 
fat from the gravy, and boil it quick to a glaze. Keep 
the fricandeau quite hot, and then glaze it ; and serve with 
the remainder of the glaze in the dish, and sorrel sauce in 
a sauce-tureen. 

A cheaper^ but equalhf ^ood, ¥ricandca%i of Veal, 

With a sharp knife cut the lean part of a large neck 
from the best end, scooping it from the bones tlie length 
of your hand, and prepare it the same way as in the last re- 
ceipt; three or four bones oidy will be necessary, and they 
will make the ffravy ; 1 ut if the prime part of the leg is 
out off, it spoils the whole. 

Fricandfuu another way. 

Take two large round sweetbreads and prepare fhfni 



V£AL, 69 

IAS 5-0U ■would veal; make a rich gravy -with truffles, 
morels, mushrooms, and artichoke-bottoms and serve it 
round. 

Feal Olives. 

Cut long thin collops, beat them, lay on them thin slices 
of fat bacon, and over these a layer of forcemeat seasoned 
liigh, with some shred shalot and Cayenne. Roll them 
tight, about the size of two fin lers, but not more than two 
or three inches long ; fasten them round with a small skew- 
er, rub e<is over them, and fry them, of a light brown. 

Serve with brown ^ravy, in which boil some mushrooms 
pickled or fresh. Garnish with balls fried. 
real Cake. 

Boil six or eight ej^gs hard ; cut the yolks in two, and 
lay some of the pieces in the bottom of the pot ; phake in 
a little chopped parsley, some slices of veal and ham, add 
then e2:gs a^ain ; shaking in after each some chopped par- 
sley, with pepper and salt, till the pot is full. Then put 
in water enoui:h to cover it, and lay on it about an ounce 
of butter; tie it over witli a double paper, and bake it 
about an hour. Then press it close together with a spoon, 
and let it stand till cold. 

It may be put into a small mould ; and then it will turn 
out beautifully for a supper or side dish. 
I eal Saiisasres. 

Chop equal quantities of lean veal and fat bacon, a 
handful of sage, a little salt and pepper, and a few ancho- 
vies. Beat all in a mortar; and when used roll and fry 
it, and serve it with fried sippets, or on stewed vegetables^, 
or on white collops. 

Scotch Collops. 

Cut veal into thin bits about three inches over, and ra- 
ther round ; beat with a rollinr'- pin, and pate a little nut- 
meg over them ; di[) into the yolk of an egg, and fry thetn 
ia a little butter of a fine brown : pour the butter o*T; and 
have ready warm to pour upon tliem half a pint of gra^^, 
a little bit of butter rubbed into a little flour, a yolk of egg, 
two las ire spoonfuls of cream, and a bit of salt. Don't boii 
the sauce, but stir it till of a fine thickness to serve with 
the collops. 

To boil Calf.^ Head. 

Clean it very nicely, and soak it iu water, that it mar 



70 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

look very vliite ; take out the tongue to salt, and the braiiis 
lo make a little dish. Boil the head extremely tender ; 
fhen strew it over with crumbs and chopped parsley, and 
brown tlicm ; or, if liked better, leave one side plain. Ba- 
con and ^^reens are to be served to eat with it. 

The brains must be boiled ; and then mixed with melt- 
ed butter, scalded sage chopped, pepper, and sah. 

If any of the head is left, it may be hashed next day. 
and a few slices of bacon just warmed and put round. 

Cold calf'fc head eats well if grilled. 

To hash Ca{fs Head. 

When half-boiled, cut off the meat in slices, half an inch 
thick, and two or three inches Ion;; : brown some butter, 
flour, and sliced onion, and throw in the slices with some 
good srravy, truffles, and morels ; give it one boil, skim it 
Y»el], and set it in a moderate heat to simmer till very 
tender. 

Season with pepper, salt, and Cayenne, at first ; and ten 
minutes before 5er\ing, throw in some shred parsley, and 
a very small bit of marjoram cut as fine as possible ; jiist 
before you serve, add the squeeze of a lemon. Torc^- 
meat-balls, and bits of bacon rolled round. 

Another way. — Boil the head almost enougli, and take 
the meat of the best side neatly off the bone with a sharp 
knife ; lay this into a small dir^h, wash it over with the yolks 
of two egi:,s, and cover it with crumbs, a few lierbs nicely 
shred, a little pepper and salt, and a grate of nutmeg, all 
mixed together first. Set the dish before the fire ; 
and keep turning it now and then, that all parts of the 
head may be equally brown. In the meantime slice the 
remainder of the head and the tongue, but first peel the 
tongue : put a pint of good gravy into a pan, with an 
onion, a small bunch of herl)s (consisting of parsley, 1 a^'il, 
savoury, marjoram, and a little thyme), a little salt, and 
Cayenne, a sli-^lot, a glass of sherry, and a little oyster-li- 
quor. Boil this for a few nrlnutes, and strain it upon the 
meat, whicli should ^^e dredj-^i d with some flour. Add some 
mushrooms either fresh or pickled, a few trudles and mo- 
rels, and two spoonfuls of ketchup; then beat up half the 
brains, and put tliis to th' nV. with a bit of butter and floui*. 
■Simmei- the wliole 



▼ fcAL. 71 

Beat the other part of the brains with shred lemon-peel, 
a little nutRieg and mace, sonie parsley shred, and an egg. 
Then fi) it in little cakes of a beautiful jellow-brown. 
Dip some o} sters into the yolk of an egg, and do the same ; 
and also some relishing forcemeat balls made as for mock 
turtle. Garnish with these, and small bits of bacon just 
made hot before the fire. 

Calfs Head fricasseed. 

Clean and half-boil half a head ; cut the meat into small 
bits, and put it into a tosser, with a little gravy made of the 
bones, some of the water it was boiled in, a bunch of sweet 
her' s, an onion, and a blade of mace. Season the gravy 
with a lUtle pepper, nutmeg, and salt, rub down some flour 
and butter, and give all a boil to<:ether ; then take out the 
herbs and onion, and add a little cup of cream, but doQ*t 
boil it in. 

Serve with small bits of bacon rolled round, and balls. 
To collar Calf's Head. 

Scald the skin oiT a fiae head, clean it nicely, arid take 
out the brains. Boil it tender enough to remove the 
bones : then have ready a good quantity of chopped pars- 
ley, mace, nutmeg, salt, an-^ white pepper, mixed well: 
seas^m it high with these ; lay the parsley in a thick layer, 
theu a quantity of thick slices of fine ham, or a beautiful 
coloured tongue skinned, and then the yolks of six nice 
yellow eggs stuck here and there about. Roll th<^ head 
quite close, and tie it up as tight as you can. Boil it, and 
then lay a weight on it. 

A cloth must be put un< ler the tape, as for other collars. 
Mock Turtle. 

Bespeak a calPshead with tiie skbi on, cut it in half, und 
clean it well ; then half-boil it, take all the ir.cat •\^ in. 
square bits, break the bones of the head, and boil then m 
some veal and beef broth to Rdd to the richness. Ery 
some slialot in butter, and dredge in flour enough to thick- 
en the gravy; stir this into the browning, and give it one 
or two boils ; skim it carefully, and theu put in the head ; 
put in also a pint of Madeira wine, and simmer till the 
meat is quite tender. Al^out ten raiiiutes before you serve, 
put in some basil, chives, parsley, Cayenne pepper, and 



tZ D031LSTIC COOKERY. 

salt, to J our taste; also two spoonfuls of mushroom ketch- 
up, and one of soy. Squeeze the juice of a lemon into the 
tureen, and pour the soup upon it. Forcemeat balls, and 
small i «;,4.,^-. 

A cheaper way, — Prepare half a calf's head, without 
the skin, as above : when the meat is cut oil, break the 
bones, and pui them into a sauce-pan with some gravy 
made of beef and veal bones, and seasoned with fried 
onions, herbs, mace, and pepper. Have ready two or 
three ox-paiates boiled so tender as to blanch, and cut into 
small pieces; to which a cow-heel, likewise cut into pieces, 
is a great improvement. Brown some butter, flour and 
onion, and pour the gravy to it; then add the meats as 
above, and stew. Half a pint of sherry, an anchovy, two 
spoonfuls of walnut- ketchup, the same of nuishroom-ketch- 
up, and some chopped herbs as before. Balls, &c. 

Another. — Put into a pan a knuckle of veal, two fine 
cow-heels, two onions, a few cloves, peppers, berries of 
allspice, mace, and sweet herbs : cover tJiem with water, 
then tie a thick paper over the pan, and set it in an oven 
for three hours. When cold take (fl'ihe fat very nicely; 
cut the n)eat and feet into bits an inch and a half square ; 
"remove the bones and coarse parts; and then put the rest 
on to warm, with a large spoonful of walnut and one of 
mushroom ketchup, half a pint of sherry or Madeira wine, 
a little mushroom-powder, and the jelly of the meat. TV hen 
hot, if it wants any more seasoning, add son;e : and sei-ve 
with h^rd eags, forcemeat-balls, a squeeze of lemon, and a 
trpoonful of soy. 

This is a very" easy way, and the dish is excellent. 

Another. — Stew a j)0und and a half of scr.ig of mutton. 
with from three pints of water to a quart ; then set the broth 
on, with a calf's foot and a cow-heel, cover the stew-pan 
light, and simmer till j ou can get off the ni(;at from the 
Iwnes in proper bits. Set it on again with the broth, m 
quarter of a pint of Madeira wine or sherr}-, a large oiiion, 
half a tcaspoonful of Cayenne pepper, a bit of lemon-peel, 
tuo anchovies, some sweet herbs, eighteen oysters cut.into 
pieces and tben chopped fnie. a tea-spoonful of salt, a little 
nr.tmeg, and the liquor of tl;e o}strrh; cov( r it tight, and 
siniiiier three quarieis of p.n liour. Serve with fcccmeat- 
bnJls, and hard eggs in the tuveen. 



VEAL. 7 J 

An cxcelleut and very clicap mock turtle may be in-^Ae 
of tMO or three coAV-heels baked \vit!i two pounds and a 
half of gravy beef, herbs, Szc. as above with covv-he:M.s 
and veal. 

Crifs Liver. 

Slice it, season with pepper and salt, and broil nicely; 
fub a bit of cold buttf r Oii it, and serve hot and hot. 
Calfs Liver roasted. 

Wash and wipe it; then cut a long hole in it, and stuff it 
with crumbs of bread, chopped anchovy, herbs, a good 
dt^al of fat bacon, onion, salt, pepper, a bit of butter, and 
an e^g : sew the liver up ; then lard it, or wr.ip it in a veal- 
cawl, and roast it. 

Serve with good brown gravy, and currant-jelly. 
To dress the Liver and Lights. 

Half-boil an equal quantity of each, then cut them in a 
middling sized mince, put to it a spoonful or two of the 
water that boiled it, a bit of butter, flour, salt, and pepper, 
simmer ten minutes and serve hot. 
Sweetbreads. 

Half-boil tliem, and stew them in a white gravy ; ad^ 
cream, flour, butter, nutmeg, salt, and white pepper. 

Or do them in brown sauce seasoned. 

Or parboil them, and then cover them with crurribSi 
herbs and seasoning, and brown them in a Dutch ovem 
Serve with butter, and mushroom ketchup or gravy. 
Sweetbreads roasted. 

Parboil two large ones : wheo cold, lard them with bacon 
and roa^t them in a Dutch oven. For sauce, plain butter 
and mushroom ketchup. 

Sweetbread razoi't. 

Cut them about the size of a walnut, wash and dry 
them, then fry them of a Oriebro^va : pour to them a good 
gravy, seasoned with salt, pepper, alispice,and either mush- 
rooms or mushroom ketchup ; strain, and thicken with 
butter and a little flour. You may add truffles, morels, 
and mushrooms. 

Kidnct/. 

Chop veal-kidney, and some of the fat; likewise a life- 
tie leek or onion, pepper, and ^alt r roll it up with an egff 
iuto balls, and frv thens. 



74 DOMESTIC COOKER V. 

Calf's heart stuff an d roast as a beef's heart, or sliced 
make it into a pudding, as directed for steak or kidney' 
pudding. 

PORK, &c. 

Bacon-hogs and porkers, are differently cut up. 

Hogs are kept to a larger size ; the cliine (or back- 
bone) is cut down on each side, the whole length, and is a 
prime part either boiled or roasted. 

The sides of the hog are made into bacon, and tlie in- 
side is cut out with very little meat to the bone. On each 
side there is a large, spare-rib; which is usually divided 
into two, one sweet-bone and a blade-bone. The bacon is 
the whole outside : and contains a fore-leg and a ham ; 
which last is the hind-leg, but if left with the bacon is call- 
ed a gammon. There are also griskins. Hog's lard is 
the inner fat of the bacon hog. 

Pickled pork is made of the flesh of the hog, as well as 
Kacon. 

Porkers are not so old as hogs ; their flesh is whiter and 
less rich, but it is not so tender. It is divided into four 
quarters. The fore-quarter has the spring or fore-leg, the 
fore-loin or neck, the spare-rib and griskin. The hind 
has the leg and the loin. 

The feet of pork make various good dishes, and should 
be cut off before the legs are cured. Observe the same of 
the ears. 

The bacon-hog is sometimes scrilded to take off the hair, 
and sometimes singed. The porker is always scalded. 
To roast a Leg of Pork. 

Choose a small leg of fine young pork : cut a slit in the 
knuckle with a sharp knife; and till the space with sage 
and onion chopped, and a little pepper and salt. When 
half-done, score the skin in slices, but don't cut deeper 
than the outer rind. 

Apple-sauce and potatoes should be served to eat with it. 
To boil a L^sr of Pork. 

Salt it eight or ten days : when it is to be dressed, weigh 
it: let it lie half an hour in cold water to make it white: 
allow a quarter of an hour for every pound, and half an 
hour over, from the time it boils up ; skim it as soon as it 
boils, and frequently after. Allow water enough. Save 



some oi it to cnate peas-soup. Some boil it in a very nice 
cloth, floured; which gives a verv delicate look. It 
should be small and ot a fine grain. 

Serve peas-pudding and turnips with it. 
Loin and Neck of Pork. 

Roast them. Cut the skin of the loin across, at distan- 
ces ot half an inch, with a sharp pen-knife. 

Shoulders and Breasts of Pork. 

Put them into pickle, or salt tre shoulder as a leg 
when very nice, they may be roasted. 

Roiled i\eck oj i^ork. 

Bone it; put a forcemeat of chopped saa:e, a veiy few 
crumbs of bread, salt, pepper, and two or three berries of 
allspice, over the inside ; then roll the meat as tight as you 
can, and roast it slowly, and at a good distance at first. 
Spring or Forehand of Pork. 

Cut out the bone : sprinkle salt, pepper, and sage dried^ 
over the inside ; but first warm a little butter to baste it, 
and then flour it : roll the pork tight, and tie it ; theo 
toast by a hanging jack. About two hours will do it. 

Spare-rib 
Should be basted with a very little butter and a little flour, 
and then sprinkled with dried sage cnirabled. Apple- 
sauce, and potatoes for roasted pork. 
Pork Griskin 
Is usually veiy hard ; the best way to prevent this is, to 
put it into as much cold water as will cover it, and let it 
boil upi tbea instantly tike it off, and put it into a Dutch 
oven ; a very few minutes will do it. Remember to rub 
butter over it, and then flour it before you put it to the fire. 

Blade-bone of Pork 
Is taken from the bacoc-bcg ; the kss meat left on it in 
moderation, the better. It is to be broiled ; and when just 
done, pepper and salt it. Put to it a piece of butter, and 
a tea-spoonful of mustard ; and serve it covered, quickly. 
To dress Park as Lainb. 

Kill a young pig of four or five months old ; cut up the 
fore-quarter for roasting as you do lamb, and truss the 
shank close. The other parts will make delicate pickled 
Qork; or steaks, pies, &c. 

2 



7j8 domestic cooker r- 

Pork Steaks. 

Cut them from a loin or neck, and of middling tliictc- 
ness ; pepper and broil them, turning them often ; when 
nearly done, put on salt, rub a bit of butter over, and serve 
the moment they are taken olFthe (ire, a fe\r at a time. 
To pickle Pork. 

The quantities proportioned to the middlings of a pretty 
large hog, the hams and shoulders being cut off. 

Mix, and pound fine, four ounces of saltpetre, a pound 
of coarse sugar, an ounce of sal prunel, and a little com- 
mon salt : sprinkle the pork with salt, and drain it twenty- 
four hours : then rub with the above ; pack the pieces 
tight in a small deep tub, filling up the spaces with com- 
mon salt. Place large pebbles on the pork, to prevent it 
from swimming in the pickle which the salt will produce. 
If kept from air, it will continue veiy fine for two years. 
Sausages. 

Chop fat and lean pork together; season it with sage^ 
pepper, and salt, and you may add two or three berries of 
allspice : half fill hog's guts that have been soaked and 
made extremely clean : or the meat may be kept in a vt;ry 
small pan, closely covered ; and so roiled and dusted with 
a very little flour before it is fried. Serve on stewed red 
cabbage ; or mash potatoes put in a form, brown with sala- 
mander, rurd garnish witji the above ; they must be prkk- 
ed with a fork before they are dressed, or they w ill burst; 
An excellent Sausage to eat cold. 

Season fat and lean pork with some salt, saltpetre, black- 
fepprv, and allspice, all in fine powder, and rub into the 
Meat ; the sixth day cut it small ; and mix with it some 
shred shalot or garlick, as fine as possible. Have ready 
j»n ox-«iit thnt has been scoured, salted, and soaked well^ 
and fill it with the above stuflfing ; tie up the «nds, and 
Jiang it to smoke as you would hams, but first wrap it ia 
a fold or two of old musljn. It must be hij:h-<iried. Some 
«atit \' Hhout boiling, but others like it boiled first. The 
skin should be tied in difl*erent places, so as to make each 
link about eight or nine inches long. 

Another Sausage. 

rhop a pimnd and a half of pork, and the same of veal, 
cleared of skin and sint^ws ; add three quarters of a pound 



PORK. 77 

of beef-suet ; mince and mix tliera ; steep the crumb of a 
small loaf in water, and mix il with the meat, with also a 
little diied sage, pepper, and salt. 

I'o scald a Sucking Fig. 

The moment the pi^ is killed, put it inlo cold water for 
a few minutes ; then rub it over with a littic i esiii beaten 
xtremejy small, and put it into a pail of scaldioi^ water 
half a minute : take it out, lay it on a table, and pull oiFthr 
hair as quickly as possible ; if any part does cot come oR' 
put it in again. When quite clean, wash it well with, 
warm water, and then in two or three ^'old waters, that no 
fiavour of the rr-sin may remain. Take off all the feet at 
the first joint ; make a slit down the belly, and take out 
the entrails; put the liver, heart, aad lights, to the feet. 
Wash the pig well in cold w ater, dry it thorouglily, and 
fold it in a wet cloth to keep it fioni the air. 
To roast a Sucking Fig. 

If you can get it when just killed, tLis is of great ad- 
vantage. Let it be scalded, which the dealers usually do; 
rlien put some sage, crumbs of bread, salt, and pepper, into 
the belly, and sew it up. Observe to <krwer the legs 
back, or the under part will not crisp. 

Lay it to a brisk lire till thoroughly dry ; then have 
ready some butter in a dry cloth, and rub the pig wiih 
it in every part. Dredge as much fivur over as will 
possibly lie, and do not touch it again till ready to serve ; 
tiien scrape off the flour very carefuU) with a blunt knife^ 
rub it well with the buttered cloth, and tuke oiT the head 
while at the fire; take out tlie brains, and mix them with 
tlie gravy that comes from the pig. Then take it up : and 
without withdrawing; the spit, cut it d^un the back and 
belly, lay it into the dish, aad chop the ^nge and bread 
quickly as fine as you can, and mix theju with a largo 
quantity of fine melted butt^er that hns very little flour. 
Put the sauce into the dish ?wfter the pig has been split 
down the back, and garnished with the ears and the two 
jaws; take off the upper part of the head down to the snout: 

Sometimes it is served whole, if very small : the head 
45nly being cut off to garnish as above. 
Pettitoes. 

Boil them, the liver, and tie heart, in a small quantity 
of water, very gently ; then cut the meat fine, and simmer; 



f$' fi©M£STrC COOK L.UY. 

it with a little of the water and the feet split, till the feet 
are quite tender ; thicken witii a bit of butter, a little 
flour, a spoonful of creaoi, and a little salt and pepper ; 
give it a boil up, pour it over a few sippets of bread, and 
put the feet on the mince. 

To make excellent Meat of a Hog's Head. 

Split the head, take out the braius, cut oil' the ears, and 
sprinkle it with comnioa salt for a day : tlieu drain it ; 
salt it well with common salt and saltpetre three days, 
then lay the salt and head hito a small quantity of water for 
t wo days. Wash it, and boil it till all the bones will come 
out; remove them, and chop the head as quick as possi- 
ble : but first skin the tongue, and take the skin carefully 
off the head, to put under and over. Season with pepper, 
salt, and a little mace or allspice berries. Put the skin in- 
to a small pan, press the cut head in, and put the other 
^skin over; press it down. When cohl, it will turn out» 
and makje a kind of brawn. If too fat, you may put a few 
bits of lean pork to be prepared the same way. Add salt 
and vifieaar, and boil these with some of the liquor for a 
pickle to keep it. 

To roast Porker's Head. 

Chocse a fine youn^ head, clean it well, and put bread 
and sage as for pig ; sew it up tight, and on a string or hang- 
ing jack roast it as a pig, and serve with the same sauce. 
To prepare pig's Cheek for boiling. 

Cut off the snout, and clean the head; divide it, and 
"take out the eyes and the brains ; sprinkle the head with 
salt, and let it drain tv>'enty-four hours. Salt it with com- 
mon salt and saltpetre : let it lie eight or ten days if to be 
dressed without stewing with peas, but less if to be dres- 
sed with peas ; and it must be washed first, and then sim- 
mered till all is tender. 

To collar Pig's Head. 

Scour the head and ears nicel) ; take oiV the hair and 
snout, anrl take out the eyes and the brain : lay it into 
water one night : then drain, salt it extremely well with 
common salt and sidtpetre, and let it lie five days. Boil it 
enou.'rh to take out the bones ; then lay it on a dresser, 
turninir tlie thick end of one side of the head townrds Hie 
tliin end of tlie other to make the roll of equal size : sprirr- 



tOllh. (V 

kle it \reil ^ith salt and Avhite pepper, aud roll it with tlir 
ears ; and if you approve, put the pijr'fe feet round tlie out- 
side ^vhen boned, or the thin parts of two cow-heels. Put 
it in a cloth, bind with a broad tape, and boil it till quite 
tender ; then put a good weight upon it, and dou't tak 
ofT the covering till cold. 

If you choose it to be more like brawn, salt it longer, 
and let the proportion of saltpetre be greater, and put in 
also some pieces of lean pork ; and then cover it with cow- 
heel to look like the horn. 

This may be kept either in or out of pickle of salt and 
water boiled, with vinegar; and is a very convenient 
thing to have in the house. 

If likely to spoil, slice and fry it either with or without 
batter. 

To dry Hog's Checks, 

Cut out the snout, remove the brains, and split tlie head, 
taking ofTthe upper bone, to make the chawl a good shape ; 
Tub it well with salt ; next day take away thi- brine, and 
salt it again the following day; cover the head with half 
an ounce of saltpetre, two ounces of bay-salt, a little com- 
mon salt, and four ounces of coarse sugar. Let the head 
be often turned ; after ten days, smoke it for a week like 
bacon. 

To force Hog\9 Ears. 

Parboil two p^^ir of ears, or take some that have beeu 
soused ; make a forcemeat of an anchovy, some sage, pars- 
ley, a quarter of a pound of suet chopped, bread-crumbs, 
pepper, and only a little salt. Mix all these with the yolks 
of twoerrgs; raise the skin of the < pu^r side of the ear?, 
and siuir them with the above. Fry the ears in fresh but- 
ter, of a fine colour; then pour away the fat, and drain 
them : make rendy half a pint of rich grav^-. with a glnss 
of fine sherry, three tea-spocnrnls of made mustard, a little 
bit of flour aud butter, a small onion whole, and a little 
pepper or Cayenne. Put this with the ears into a stew- 
pan, and cover it close ; stew it ireii' ly for half an hour, 
shaking the pan often. When done enough, take out the 
onion, place the cars carefully in a dish, and pour the, 
sa?ice over them. If a larger dish is wanted, the meat 
from two feet Tt)av be added to the above. 



Different ways of dressing Pig's Feci and Ears. 
Clean carefully, and soak some hours, and boil tli- m 
fender; then take them out ; boil seme vinegar and a litlle 
salt w ith some of the water, and when cold put it over 
them. A\'hen they are to be diessed, dry them, cut the 
feet in two, and slice the ears; fry, and serve with butter, 
mustard, and vinegar. They may be either done in bat- 
ter, or only floured. 

Pig's Feet and Ears Fricasseed. 
Put no vinegar into the pickle, if to be dressed with 
cream. Cut the feet and ears into neat bits, and boil them 
in a little milk ; then pour that from them, and simmer in 
a little veal broth, with a bit of onion, mace, and lemon- 
peel. Before you serve, add a little cream, flour, butter 
and salt. 

Jelly of Pig^s Feet and Ears. 
Clean and prepare as in the last article, then boil them 
in a very small quantity of water till every bone can be 
taken out ; throw in half a handful of chopped sage, the 
same of paisley, and a seasoning of pepper, salt, and mace 
in fine powder ; simmer till the herbs are scalded, then 
pour the whole into a melon-form. 

Pig's Harslet. 
Wash and dry some liver, sweetbreads, and fat and lean 
bits of pork, beating the latter with a ro! ling-pin to make 
it tender : season with pepper, salt, sai;e, and a little onion 
shred fine; when mixed, put all into acawl, and f ^ten it 
up tight with a needle and thread. Roast it on a hanging 
jack, or Ly a string. 

Or serve in slices with parsley for a fry. 
Serve with a sauce of port-wine and water, and mustard, 
just boiled u[., and put into a dish. 
Mock Brawn. 
Boil a pair of neat's feet very tender; take the meat off, 
and have ready the belly-piece of pork, salted with com- 
mon salt an«l saltpetre for a week, j^oil tills almost enoudi : 
take out the l>ones, and roll the fef t and the pork tosjether. 
Then roll it very ti*jht with a Btrong cloth and coarse 
tape. Boil it till very tender, then bans: it up in the cloth 
till cold ; after which keep \i in a souising liijnor, as is d;. 
rected ia the uext avt^rlr. 



Pc.tK. 81 

Souse for Brann^ and for Pig's Feet and Ears. 

Boil a quarter of a peck of wlicat-braii, and a sprig of 
rosemary, ifi two :;alions of water, with four ounces of salt 
in it, for lialf an hour. Strain, it. and let it get cold. 
To make Black Ptiddings. 

The blood must be stirred with salt till cold. Put a 
quart of it, or rather more, to a quart of whole grits, to soak 
one night ; and soak the crun)b of a loaf in rather more 
than Iwo quarts cf new milk made hot. In the mean time 
prepare the guts by washing, turning, and scraping with 
salt and water, and chandng the water several times. 
Chop fine a little savoury and thyme, a good quantity of 
pency-ro} al, pepper, and salt, a few cloves, some allspice- 
ginger, and nutmeg ; mix these with three pounds of becl- 
suet, and six eggs well beaten and strained : and then beat 
the bread, pits. Sec. all np with the seasoning; when AveH 
mixed, have ready some hogs' fat cut into large bits ; and 
as you fill the skins put it in at proper distances. Tie in 
links, only half filled; and boil in a large kettle, pricking 
ihem as they swell, or they will burst. When boiled, lay 
rhem beiwefcn clean cloths till cold, and bans: them up in 
the kitclien. ""^nien to be used, scald them a few minutes 
in water, wipe and put them into a Dutch oven. 

If tliere are not skins enouirh, put tlie stuffing into basins, 
and boil it covered with flour cloths ; and slice and fry it 
when used. 

Another 7vay. — Soak all night a quart of bruised grits 
in as much boiling hot milk as will swell them and leave 
half a pint of liquid. Chop a good quantity of penny- 
royal, some savouiy. nnd th} me ; salt, pepper, and allspice 
Guely powdered. Mix t]}e above witli a quart of the 
blood, prepared as before directed; then half fill the skins 
after they have been cleaned thoroughly, ar>d put as much 
of tiie leaf (that is, the inward fat) of the pig as will make 
it pretty rich. Boil as before directed. A small quantity 
of leeks finely shred and well mixed, is a great improve- 
menL 

Another way. — Boil a quart of half-grits in as much 
milk as will swell them to the utmost; then drain them and 
add a quartof blood, a pint of rich cream, a pound of suet, 
spme mace, nutmeg, allspice, and four cloves, all in fine 



^2 SOMS^IC COOKERli. 

powder; two pounds ot the hog's leaf cut into dice, two 
leaks, a handful of parsley, ten leaves f sage, alar^e hand- 
ful of penny-royal, and a sprig of tin me and marjoram, ill 
minced fine; eight egj;s well beaten, liaifapound of bread 
crumbs that have been scalded with a pint of milk, pepper, 
and salt. Half fill the skins; which must first be cleaiied 
"with the greatest care, turned sever.ti times, lad soiked in 
several waters, and lasi in rose-water. Tie the skins in 
links, boil and prick ihem with a clean fork to prevent their 
bursting. Cover them with a clean cloth tdl cold. 
IVhite Ho^'s Puddings. 

When tlie skins have been soaked and cleaned as before 
directed, rinc:- and soak them all ni«:ht in rose-water, aad 
put into them the follouin:.'- filli i^ : mix hal a pounJ of 
blanched almonds cut into seven or ei? st b.ts, with a pound 
of grated bread, two pounds ol marrow or suet, a pound 
of currants, some beaten cinnamon, cloves, mace, and nut- 
meg, a quart of cream, the yolks of six and whites of two 
eggs, a little orange flower-water, a little fine sugar, and 
some lemon-peel and cition sliced, and iialffill the skins. 
To know whether sweet eaouir];, warm a little in a pauikin. 
In boiling, much care must be taken to prevent the pud- 
dings from bursting. Prick them with a small fork as they 
rise, and boil thorn in milk and water. Lay tliem in a 
table-cloth till cold. 

Hos'^s Lard 
Should be carefully melted in a jar put into a kettle of wa- 
ter, and boiled, run it into bladders that have been ex- 
tremely well cleaned. The smaller they are, the better 
the lard keeps; as after the air reaches it, it becomes raiik. 
Putin a sprig: of rosemary when melting. 

This beiig a most useful article for frying fish, it should 
be prepared with care. Mixed with butter, it makes fine 
crust. 

To cure Hams. 

Hang tliem a day or two; then sprinkle them with a 
little salt, and drain them another day; pound an ounce 
and a half of saltpetre, the same quantity of ha} -salt- 
half an ounce of sal-prunel, aitd a j30und of the coarsest 
sugar. Mix these well; and rub t!;era into each ham 
every day for four days, and turn it. If a small out;. 



POKK. 83 

turn it every day for three T^eeks : if a large one, a week 
longer ; lut don't rub after four days. Before you dry- 
it, drain and cover with bran. Smoke it ten days. 

Another way. — Choose the leg of a hog that is fat and 
iveli-fed; hang it as above ; if large, put to it a pound of 
bay salt, four ounces of saltpetre, a pound of the coarsest 
fugar, and a handful of common salt, all in fine powder, and 
rub it thoroughly. Lay the rind downwards, and cover 
the fleshy part with the salts. Baste it as often as yoii 
can with the pickle ; the more the betler. Keep it four 
weeks, iurning it every day. Drain it, and throw bran 
over it; then hang it in a chimney where wood is burnt^ 
and turn it sometimes for ten days. 

Ancther nay. — Hang the ham, and sprinkle it with salt 
as above ; thea rub it ever}- day with the following, in fine 
powder : half a pound of common salt, the same quantity 
of hay -salt, two ounces of saltpetre, and two ounces of 
black pepper, mixed with a pound and a half of treacle. 
Turn it twice a day in the pickle, for three weeks. Lay 
it into a pail of water for one night, wipe it quite dry, and 
smoke it two or three weeks. 

Another way, that gives a high fiavGur. — When the 
weather will permit, hang the ham three days; mix an 
ounce of saltpetre with a quarter of a pound of bay-saltj 
the same quantity of common salt, and also of coarse su- 
gar, and a quart of strong beer : boil them together, and 
pour them immediately upon the ham ; turn it twice a-day 
in the pickle for three weeks. An ounce of black pepper, 
and the same quantity of allspice, in fine powder, added to 
the above, will give still more flavour. Cover it with 
bran when wiped : and smoke it from three to four wee' s, 
as you approve ; the latter will make it harder and give it 
more of the flavour of Westphalia. Sew hams in coarse 
wrappers, if to be smoked where there is a strong fire. 

A method of giving a siiil higher flavour. — Sprinkle 
the ham with salt, after it has hung two or three days ; 
let it drain ; make a pickle of a quart of strong beer, half 
a pound of treacle, an ounce of coriander seeds, two oun- 
ces of juniper-berries, an ounce of pepper, the same quac- 
tit} of allspice, an ounce of saltpetre, half an ounce of sal- 
4)nuiel, a handful of common salt, and a head of shalot, all 
H 



84 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

pounded or cut fine. Boil these ail together a iew minutes, 
and pour them over the ham : this quantity is for one of 
ten pounds. Rub and turn it every day, for a fortnight ; 
then sew it up in a thin Imen bag, and smoke it three 
weeks. Take care to drain it from the pickle, and rub it 
in bran, before drying. 
To make a Pickle that will keep for years, for HamSy 

Tongues, or Beef if boiled and skimnied between each 

parcel of them. 

To two gallons of spring-water put two pounds of coarse 
sugar, two pounds of bay, and two pounds and a halt of 
common salt, and half a pound of saltpetre, in a deep earth- 
en glazed pan that will hold four gallons, and with a cover 
that will fit close. Keep the beef or hams as long as they 
will bear, before you put them into the pickle ; and sprin- 
kle them with coarse sugar in a pan, from which they must 
drain. Rub the hams, Sec. well with the pickle, and pack 
them in close ; putting as much as the pan will hold, so that 
the pickle may cover them. The pickle is not to be boil- 
ed at first. A small ham may lie fourteen days, a lar<?e one 
three weeks ; a tongue tv,elve days, and beeiin proportion 
to its size. Tliey w ill eat well out of the pickle without 
drying. When they are to be dried, let each piece be 
drained over the pan ^ and when it will drop no longer, 
take a clean sponge and dry it thoroughly. Six or eight 
hours will smoke them, and there should be oidy a little 
saw-dust and wet straAV burnt to do this ; but if put into a 
chimney, sew them in a coarse cloth,and hang them a week. 
To dress Hams. 

If long hung, put the ham into water a night; and let it 
lie either in a hole dug in the earth, or on damp stones 
sprinkled with w ater, two or three days, to mellow ; 
covering it v. ith a heavy tub, to keep vermin from it. 
Wash well, and put it into a boiler witli plenty of water; 
let it simmer four, five, or six hours, according to the size. 
When done enough, if before the time of servinjE;, cover it 
with a clean cloth doubled, and keep the dish hot over 
boiling water. Take olf the skin, and strew raspings over 
the ham. Garnish with carrot. Presr^ve the skin as 
whole as possible, to keep over the ham when cold, which 
will prevent its drying. 



Excellent Bacon, 

Divide the hog, aad take the ch-ae out : it is common 
to remove the spare-ribs, but the bacon will be preoeived 
better from being rusty if tliey are left in Salt ilie bacon 
six days, then drain it from the first pickle : mix as much 
salt as you judi:e proper with eight ounces of bay -salt, three 
ounces of saltpetre, and a pound of coarse sugar, to each 
hog, but first cut oiTthc hams. Rub the salts well in, aud 
turn it every day for a month. Drain, and smoke it a few 
days ; or dry without, by hanging in the kitchen, not near 
the fire. 

Another manner of curing Bacon. 

Spiiulsle each flitch with salt, and let tlie blood drain 
off for twenty-four hours : then mix a pound and a half of 
coarse sugar, the same quantity of bay-salt, not quite so 
much as half a pound of saltpetre, and a pound of common 
salt : and rub this well on the bacon, turning ■? every day 
for a month : then hang it to ([yj^ and afterwards smoke it 
ten days. This quantity of salts is sufficient for the 
whole hog, 

MUTTON. 

Ohservations on ciittino- and dressing Mutton. 

Take away the pipe that runs along the bone of the iur 
iide of a chine of mutton ; and if to be kept a great lime, 
rub the part clore round the tall with salt, after first cut- 
ling out the kernel. 

The kernel in the fat on the thick part of tl-e leg should 
be taken out by the butcher, for it t liats first there. The 
chine and rib-bones should be wiped every day : and the 
bloody part of the neck be cut o»T, to preserve it. The 
brisket changes first in the breast ; and if it is to be kept, 
it is best to rub it with a little salt should the weather be 
hot. 

Every kernel should be taken out of all sor^s of meat 
as soon as brought io : then wipe dry. 

For roasting, it should hang as long as it will keep, the 
hiud-<[uarter especially, but not so long as to taiit ; lor 
whatever fashion may authorise, putridjuices ought not to 
be taken into the stomach. 

"VTutton for boiling will not lpol$: of a good colour if i* 
has hung long. 



VQ liOMBSTlC COOKERY. 

Great care should be taken to preserve by paper the lat 
•f what is roasted. 

Leg of Mutton. 

If roasted, serve with oujon and currant-jelly sauce; iF 
boiled, with caper-sauce and vegetables. 

Neck of Mutton 
fs particularly useful, as so many dishes may be made of 
it; but it is uot advantage ous for the famUy. The bones 
sliiould be cut short, v.'hich the butchers v. ill not do unless 
particularly desired. 

The best end of the neck may be boiled, and served 
with turnips; or roasted; or dressed in steaks, in pies oi^ 
hanico. 

1 he scrags may be stewed in broth ; or with a small 
quantity of water, some small onions, a few pepper-corns 
and a little rice, and served toj>;ether. 

When a lieck is to be boiled to look particularly nice, 
saw down the chine bone, strip the ribs half-way down, 
and chop off the ends of the bones about four inches. The 
skin should not be taken off till boiled, and then the fat 
will look the whiter. 

"When there is more fat to the neck or loin of mutton, 
than it is agreeable to eat with the lean, it makes an un- 
commonly good suet-pudding, or crust for a meat-pie if 
cut very fine. 

Shoulder of Mutton roasted. 

Serve with onion sauce. The blade-bone may be broil- 
ed. 

To dress Haunch of Mutton. 

Keep it as long as it can be preserved sweet by the dif- 
ferent modes : let it be washed with warm milk and water, 
or vinegar, if necessary ; but when to be dressed, observe 
to wash it well, lest the outside should have a bad flavour 
from keeping. Put a paste of coarse flour or strong paper, 
and fold the haunch in ; set it a great distance from the 
fire, and allow proportionable time for the paste; don't 
take it oflf till about thirty-five or forty mliuites before 
serving, and then baste it continually. Bring the haunch 
nearer to the fire before you take off the paste, and froth it 
up as you would venison. 

A gravy must be made of a pound and a half of loin ol 
#ld mutton, simmered in a pint of water to half, and no sea- 



MUTTON. 8 ;' 

soiling but salt : brown it with a little burnt su£;ar, and send 
it up ill the jibh ; but there should be a good deal of gra- 
vy in the meat; for though long at the fire, the distance 
and covering will prevent its roasting out. 

Serve with currant-jellj sauce. 

To roast a Saddle of Mutton. 

Let it be w ell kept first. Raise the skin, and thea 
skewer it on again ; take it off a quarter of an hour be- 
fore serving, sprinkle it v.ith some salt, baste it, and dredge 
it well witli flour. The rump should be split, and ske^vei- 
ed back on each side. The joint may be large or small ac- 
cording to the company : it is the most elegant if the lat- 
ter. Being broad it requires a high and strong fire. 
FilUt of Mutton braised. 

Take off the chump end of the loin, butter some paper, 
and put over it, and then paste as for venison; roast it two 
iiours. Don't let it be the least broAvn. Have ready- 
some French beans boiled and drained on a sieve : and 
while the mutton is being glazed, give them one heat-up 
in gravy, and lay them on the dish with the meat over them. 
Harrico. 

Take off some of the fat, and cut the middle or best end 
of the neck into rather thin steaks ; flour and fry thera in 
their own fit of a fine light brown, but not enough for eat- 
ing. Then put them into a dish while you fry the car- 
rots, turnips, and onions; the cirrots and turnips in dice, 
the onions sliced : but they must only be warmed, not 
browned, cr you need not fry them. Then lay the steaks 
at the bottom of a stew-pan, the vegetables over them, and 
pour as much boiling viater as will just cover them ; give 
one boil, skim well, and tlien set the pan on the side of the 
fire to simmer gently till tender. In three or four hours 
skim thera ; and add pepper, salt, and a spoonful of ketchup. 
To hash Mutton. 

Cut thin slices of dressed mut- oa ; fat and lean ; flour 
them; have ready a little onion boiled in two or three 
spoonfuls of water; add to it a little gravy and the meat 
seasoned, ml make it hot, but not to boil. Serve in a co- 
vered d:ih. Instead of onion, a dove, a spoo.iful of cur- 
rant- jf-lly, aid half a rlass of port tvcie, will give ao agree- 
able flavour of venison, if th3 meat be fine. 
H 2 



t^ DOMESTIC COOKER y. 

Pickled cucumber, or walnut, cut small, warm in it for 
change. 

To boil Shoulder of Mutton with Ousters, 

Hang it some days, then salt it well for two days ; bone 
it ; and sprinkle it with pepper and a bit of mace pounded : 
lay some oysters over it, and roll the meat up tight and tie 
it. Stew it in a small quantity" of water, with an onion and 
a few pepper-coms till quit6 tender. 

Have ready a little good gravy, and some oysters stew- 
ed in it ; thicken this with flour and butter, and pour over 
the routton when the tape is taken off. The stew-pan 
should be kept close covered. 

Breast of Mutton. 

Cut off the superfluous fat, and roast and serve the meat 
with stewed cucumbers; or to eat coid, covered with 
chopped parsk )-. Or half boil and tlien grill it before the 
fire : in which case cover it with crumbs and herbs, and 
serve with caper-sauce. Or if boned, take off a good deal 
ef the fat, and cover it with bread, herbs, and seasoning; 
then roll and boil ; and serve v. itli chopped walnuts, or 
capers and butter. 

Loin of Mtdton 
Roasted : if cut lengthwayy as a saddle, some think it cuts 
better. Or for steaks, pies, or broth. 

To roll Loin of Bluti&ii. 

Hang the mutton till tender : bo^e it ; and lay a sea- 
soning of pepper, allspice, mace, nutmeg, and a few cloves 
all in (ine powder, over it. Next day prepare a stuffing 
as for hare ; beat the meat, and cover it with the staffing ; 
toll it up tight, and tie it. Halt-bake it in a slow oven ; 
let it STOW cold ; take off the fat, and put the gravy into 
a stew-pan; Hour the meat, and put it in likewise; stew it 
till almost ready : and add a glass of port wine, some ketch- 
up, an anchovy, and a little lemon pickle, half an hour be- 
fore serving ; serve it in the gravy, and with jelly-sauce. 
A few fresh mushrooms arc a great improvemect ; but if 
to eat like hare do not use thes(% nor the lemon-pickle. 
Mutton Ham. 

Choose a fine grained leg of ^\ ether-mutton, of twelve oi' 
fourteen pounds weight; let it be cut ham-shape, and hang 
two days. Then put into a stew pan half a pound of bay- 



salt, the same orcommon salt, two ounces of saltpetre, and 
half a pound of coarse sugar, all in powder; mix, and make 
it quite hot ; then rub it well into the ham. Let it be tur- 
ned in the liquor every day ; at the end of four days pui 
t"vvo ounces more of common salt : in twelve days take it 
out, diy it, and hang it up in wood-smcke a week. It is 
*to be used in slices, with stewed cabbage, ni- si- cd potatoes, 
or eggs. 

Ttltitton CollopF. 

Take a loin of mutton that has been well hung ; and 
cut from the part next the leg, some coliops very thin. 
Take out the sinews. Season the coUops with salt, pep- 
per, and mace, and strew over them shred parsley, thyme, 
and two or three shalots; fry them in butter till half done : 
add half a pint of gravy, a little juice of lemon, and a piece 
of butter ribbed in flour ; and sirnmer the whole very 
gently five minutes. They should be served immediaiely 
or they will be hard. 

Mutton Cutlets, 

Cut ^le chops; and half-fry them in sliced shalot or 
onion, chopped parsley, and two bay-leaves ; season with 
pepper and salt ; then lay a forcemeat on a piece of white 
paper, put the chop on it, and twist the paper up, leaving 
a hole for the ends of the bones to go through. Broil on 
a gentle fire. Serve with sauce Robart ; ©"r, as the sea- 
3oniug makes the cutlets high, a little gravy. 

Muttcji Steaks 
Should be cut from a loin or neck tliat has hung : if a 
Q< ck the boy s should not be long. They should be broil- 
ed on a clear fire, seasoned when half dcce, and often turn- 
ed : take theja up into a very hot dish, mb a bit of but- 
ter on each, and serve hot and hot the moment' they arc 
done. 

Steaks of 3liittcn, or Lamh^ and Ciicumhers, 

Q,iiarter cucnmberg, and lay them into a deep dish, 
sprinkle them with salt, and pour vinegar ovv^r them. J*ry 
tlse chops of a fine brown, and put them into a stew-pan ; 
dr^^.n the cucumbers, and put over the steaks; add some 
sliced onions, pepper, and salt ; pour hot water or weak 
broth on them ; stew and skim well. 



90 D03IESriC COOKFIiY. 

Mutton Steaks^ Mainienon. 

Half-fiy, stew ihem while I.ot, Y.iili herb:?, crunils, and 
seasoning ; put them in paper immedialely, and liuish on 
the gridiron. Be carefiil thf paper does not catch; mb 
a bit of butter on it first to prevent that. 
jShiUon Sausages. 

Take a pound o( the rawest prat of the leg of mutton 
that has been either roasted or boded; chop it tztrn;iieiy 
small, and season it with prpper, salt, mace, and nutmeg : 
add to it six ounces of beef-suet, some sweet herbs, two 
anchovies, and a pint of oy&ters, idi chopped very small : 
a quarter of a pound of i^rated brea.'.L some of tiie anchovy 
liquor, and the yelks and vv^hites of tivc cj;t:sweli beaten. 
Put it all, when well mixed, into a litfeie pot; and use it 
by rolling it into balls or sausage-shape and fryiii-;. If 
approved, a Utile shalot may be added, or garlick, which 
is a great improvement. 

To dress Mutton Rumps and Kidneys. 

Stew six rumps in some good mutton-gravy half au 
hour; then take them up, and let them stand to coo]. 
Clear the gravy frojii the fat : and put into it four oun^s 
of boiled rice, an onion stuck with cloves, and a blade of 
mace ; boil them till the rice is thick. \^ ash the rumps 
with yolks of eiij^s well beaten: and streu over them 
crumbs of bread, a Lttlep-pper and salt, chopped parsley, 
and thyme, and grated lemon-peel. Fry in batter of a fine 
brown. While the rumps are stewing, lard the kidneys, 
and put them to roast in a Dutch oveji. When the rumps 
are fried, t;ie grease must be drained before they are put 
on the dish ; the rnnips put round on ihc^ rice, tlie narrow 
ends towards the middle, and the kidneys between. Gar- 
uish with hard eggs cut in half, the white being left on; or 
with different coloured pickles. 

An excellent Hotch-potch. 

Stew peas, lettuce, and onioijs, in a very little water 
with a beef or ham-bone. While these are doing, fry some 
mutton or lamb-steaks seasoned, of a nice brown; tliree 
qu'V.'ters of an liour before dinner, put the steaks into a 
stew pan, and the vegetables over them ; stew them, and 
serve altogether in a tureen. 



Another. — Knuckle of veal, and scrag of mutton, stewed 
-Tpith vegetables as above ; to both add a bit of butteir roll- 
ed in flour. 

Mutton hehohhcd. 

Take all the fat out of a loin of mutton, and that on the 
outside also if too fat, and remove the skin. Joint it 
•citever^' bone: mix a small outmeg «rated with a little 
fait and pepper, crumbs, and herbs; dip the steaks into 
the yolks of three eggs, and sprinkle the above mixture all 
over them. Then place the steaks together as they were 
before they were cut asunder, tie them, and fasten them 
•n a small spit. Iloast them at a quick fire ; set a dish 
under, and baste them with a good piece of butter and the 
liquor that comes from the meat ; but throw some more of 
the above seasoning over. W h^a do-ie enough, take it 
lip, and lay it in a dish : have half a pint of good gravy 
ready besides that in the dish : and put into it two spoon- 
fuls of ketchup, and rub down a tea-spoonful of flour with 
it ; give this a boil, and pour it over the mutton, but first 
skim off the fat well. jMind to keep the meat hot till the 
gravy is quite ready. 

China Chile. 

Mince a pint-basin of undressed neck of mutton, or leg, 
and some of the fat; put two onions, a lettuce, a pint of 
green peas, a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, 
four spoonfuls of Avater, and two or three ounces of clarifi- 
ed butter, into a stew-pan closely covered; simmer two 
liours, and serve in the middle of a dish of boiled dry rice. 
If Cayenne is approved, add a little. 

LA31B. 

L€g of Lamb 
Should be boiled in a cloth, to look as white as possible. 
The loin fried in steaks and served round, garnished with 
driedor fried parsley; spinach to eat with it; or dressed 
separately, or roasted. 

Fore-quarter of Lamh. 
Roast it either whole, or in separate parts. If left to 
ne cold, chopped parsley should be sprinkled over it. The 
ueck and breast together is called a scoven. 
Breast of Lamb and Cucumbers. 
Cat off the cliine bone from the breast, and set it on to 



' 1 



92 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

stew with a pint of ^trvj. When the bones would draw 
out, put it on the gridiron to grill ; and then lay it in a 
dish on cucumbers nicely stewed. 

Shoulder of Lamb forced, with Soi'rel-sauce, 

Bone a shoulder of lamb, and fill it up with forcemeat; 
braise it two hours over a slow stove. Take it up, glaze 
it; or it may be glazed only, and not braised. The me- 
thod for both, see page 99. Serve with sorrel-sauce un- 
der the lamb. 

Lamb Steaks. 

Fry tliem of a beautiful brown ; when served throw 
over them a good quantity of crumbs of bread fried, and 
crimped parsley ; the receipt for doing which of a fine co- 
lour will be given under the head of Vegetables. 

Mutton or Iamb steaks, seasoned and broiled in buttered 
papers, either with crumbs and herbs, or without, are a 
genteel dish, and eat welL 

Sauce for them, called sauce Robart, will be found la 
the Wsi of Sauces. 

House-Lamb Steaks white. 

Stew them in milk and water till very tender, with a bit 
of lemon-peel, a little salt, some pepper, and mace. Have 
ready some veai-£^ravy, and put the steaks into it ; mix 
some mushroom powder, a cup of cream, and the least bit 
of flour; shake t!!e steaks in this liquor, stir it, and let it 
get quite hot. Just before you take it up, put in a few 
wliite musiirooms. This is a good substitute when poul- 
f>ry is very dear. 

IlGuse-Lamb Steaks brown. 

Season them with pepper, salt, nutnirg, grated lemon- 
peel, and cliopped parsley : but dip them first into egg: 
fry them quick. Thicken some good gravy with a bit of 
tlour and butter; and add to it a spoonful of port wine, 
and some oysters ; boil it up, and then put in the stoaks 
warm; let them eat up, and serve. You may add palates^ 
balls, or eggs, if you like. 

Lamb Cutlets with Spinach. 

Cut the steaks from the loin, and fry them : the spinach 
is to be stewed and put into the di^!i first, and then the 
cutlets rouH'! It, 



LA3IB. §S 

Lamb's Head and Hinge. 

Ihis part is best from a hcuse-lamb ; but any, if seated 
lu rold w ater, will be white. Boil the head separately till 
very tender. Have ready the liver and lights three parts 
boiled aod cut small : stew them in a little^of the w ater in 
■which they were boiled, s ason and thicken with flour and 
butter, and serve the mince round the head. 
Lamb's Fry. 

Serve it dried of a beautiful colour and with a good 
deal of dried or fried parsley over it. 

Lamb^s Sivfetbreads. 

Blanch them, and put them a little while into cold wa- 
ter. Then put them into a stew-paa, v. ith a ladle full of 
broth, some pepper and salt, a small I unch of small onions, 
anil a blade of mace; stir in a bit of butter and flour, and 
stev, half an hour. Have ready two or three ef:gs well 
beaten in cream, with a little minced parsley and a few 
grains of nutmeg. Put in some boiled asparagus-tops to the 
other things. Don't let it boil after the cream Is in; but 
make it hot, and stir it well all the w hie. Take great care 
it does not curdle. Young French beans or peas maj^ be 
added, first boiled of a beautiful colour. 
Fricasseed Lambstones. 

Skin and wash, then dry and flour them ; fry of a beau- 
tiful brown, in ho, s' lard. Lay them on a si^ve before the 
fire till you have made the followin.; sauce: Thicken al- 
most half a pint of veal-gravy witii a bit of flour and butter, 
and tlieu add to it a slice of h/non, a larse spoonful of 
mushroom ketchup, a tea-spoonful of lemon-pickle, a grate 
of nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg beaten Yvell in two large 
spoonfuls of thick cream. Put this over the fire, and stir 
it well till it is hot, and looks white ; but don't let it boil, or 
it will curdle. Then put in the fry, and shake it about 
near the fire for a mimite or two. Serve in a very hot dish 
and cover^ 
Fricassee of Lambstones and Sweetbreads, another way,. 

Have ready some lambstones blanched, parboiled, and 
sliced. Flour two or three s-veetbreads; if veiy thick, 
cut them iv; Vxo. Fiy alto., p" her, with a few lar^^e oys- 
ters, of a fii>e } ellow browf . Pour the butter off; and 
add a pint of good gravy, some asparagus-tops about an 



§4 BOMESTIC COOKERir. 

inch long, a little Dutmeg, pepper, and salt, two shaiots 
shred fie, and a glass oi white wine. Simmo- ten minutes ; 
then put a Lttle of the ^ra\j to the yolks of three eggs well 
beaten, and by decrees m x the whole. Turn the gravy 
back into the pan, and stir it till of a fine thickness without 
boiling. Garnish with lemon. 

A very nice Dish. 

Take the best end of a neck of lamb, cut it into steaks, 
aixd cho{) each bone so short as to make the steaks almost 
round. Egg and sttew with crumbs, herbs, and seasoning : 
fry them of tue finest brown; mash some potatoes with a 
little butter and cream, and put them into the middle of the 
dis!) raised high. Then place the edge of one steak on 
an-h; r with the small bone upw ard, all round the potatoes. 

r ts 01 the different meat are directed under the gene- 
va] hf^A of savoury pies. 



PART III. 



POULTRY, GAME, &c. 

To choose Poultry, Game, <S:c. 

A Turkey CocA;.— If young, it has a smooth black leg, 
with a short spur. The eyes full and brirlit, if fresh, and 
the feet supple and moist. If stale, the eyes will be sunk, 
and the feet dry. 

Hen-turkey is known by the same niles ; but if old, her 
legs will be red and rcugli. 

Fowls. — If a cock is young, his spurs will be short ; but 
take care to see they have not been cut or pared, which is 
a trick often practiced. If fresh, the vent i\ ill be close and 
dark. Pullets ar<; best just before they bei: in to lay, and 
yet are full ofe^g: if old hens, their combs and legs will 
be rough; if young, they will be smooth. A good capon 
has a thick belly and a large rump: there is a particular 
fat at his breast, and the comb is very pale. Black-legged 
fowls are most moist, if for ronsting. 

Geese. — The bill and feetof a young one will be yellow, 
and there will be but few hairs upon them; if old, they 



DOMESTIC CCOKERT. 



Tvrheyfor Roasting. 



Plate 6. 




Turkey or Fowl for Boiling. 




Chicken or Fowi/or Rooiting. 





Duck, 




Back, 



B^-easti 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



Goose. 



Plate 7. 




Woodcock or Snipe. 



Pigeon. 





Pheasant or Partridge. 




Hare or Rabbit Trtmedfor Roasting. 




Hare or Rabbit for Roasting or Boiling. 




POULTRV. 95 

will be red : if fresh, the feet \nl\ be pliable ; if stale, dry 
and slid'. Geese are called green till three or four months 
old. Green geese should be scalded : a stubble-goose 
should be picked dry. 

Ducks. — Choose them by the same rules, of having sup- 
pit feet, and by tiieir being hard and thick on the breast 
and belly. The feet of a tame duck are thick, and in- 
clining to dusky yellow ; a wild one has the feet reddislj, 
and smaller than the tame. They should be picked dry. 
Duckhugs must be scalded. 

Pigeons should be very fresh ; when they look flabby 
about the veat, and this part is discoloured, they are stale. 
The feet should be supple ; if old, the feet are harsh. 
The tame ones are larger than the wild, and are thought 
best by some persons; they should be fat and tender; 
but many are deceived in their size, because a full crop 
is as lar2:e as the whole body of a small piG;eon. 

The wood pi<reoQ is large, and the fiesh dark-colour- 
ed : if properly kept, and not over-roasted, the flavour is 
equal to teal. Serve with a ijoodgrav^'. 

Plovers. — Choose those that feel hard at the vent, 
which shows they are fat. In other respects, choose ibeiH 
by the same marks as other fowl. AVhen stale, the feet 
are dry. They will keep sweet a Ions: time. There are 
three sorts : the grey, green, and bastard plover or lap- 
wing. 

Hare or rabbit. — If the claws are bhmt and ra2o;ed, 
the ears dry and tough, and the haunch thick, it is old : 
but if the claws are smooth and sharp, the cars easily teai*, 
and th-' cleft in the lip is not much spread, it is young. If 
fresh and newly killed, the body will be stiiT, and in hares 
the flesh pale. But tJiey keep a good while by proper 
care ; and are best when rather beginning to turn, if the 
inside is preserved from be;<ng musty. To know a real 
leveret, you should look for a knob or small bone near 
the foot on its fore leg; if there is '.one, it is a hare. 

PartridiTcs and Qitmls. — They are in season in autuma. 
If youn*. the bill is of a dark colour, and the legs yellow- 
ish ; if fresh, the vent will be firm ^ but this part will look 
-greenish if stale. " 

I 



96 DOMESTIC C0Oi:tKV. 

Pheasants. — The ccck-bird is accoiuilcd best, except 
■when the hen is with egg. If } ouca;, he has short blunt 
or round spurs ; but if eld, they are long and shr.rp. 
Directions for dressing Poultry and Game. 

All pouliiy should be very carefully picked, every plug 
removed, and tl-e hair nicely singed with white paper. 

The cook must be careful in drawin^: poultry of all sorts, 
i!Ot to break the gall-big, for no washing will take off the 
bitter where it has touched. 

In dressing wild fowl, be careful to keep a clear brisk 
fiyv. Let them be done of a fine } ellow brown, but leave 
the f);ravy in : the fine flavour is lost if done too much. 

Tame fov,ls require more roastins^, and are longer in 
heating through than others. All sorts should be c'onti- 
nually basted ; that tbcy may be served witli a froth, and 
appear of a fine colour. 

A large fowl will take three cmarterscfan hour; a mid- 
dling one half an hour ; and a very small on: or a chicken, 
twenty minutes. The fire must be very quick and clear 
before any fowls arc put down. A capon will take fn^ni 
half an hour to thirty-five nduutes; a f:oose an liour ; wild 
ducks a quarter of an houv; pheasants twenty minutes; a 
small turkey stuircd, anlicurund a quarter; turkey-poults, 
twenty minutes; grouse, a quarter of an hour; quails, ten 
minutes: and parLridges, from twenty to t\Aenty -five min- 
utes. A hare will take near an hour, and the hind part 
requires most heat. 

Pigs and gccsc require a l-vj^k fire, and quick turning. 
ITaics and rabbUs niusL l)e well attended to : and the ex- 
tremities brought to tlie quick part of the fire, to bo done 
equally with the backs. 

POULTRY. 

To hcil Turkey. 
r.j..L'; a Linifing of bread, iierls, salt, pepper, nutmeg, 
leraon-pjL'ol, a few oysters or an anchovy, a l>it of butter, 
some suet, and an egg : put iliis into liie crop, fasten up the 
skin, and boil tiie turkc^y r.i a rloured cloth to make it 
very Avhite. Have rea,iy ;i line o} ster-saTicc made rich 
witli butter, a little cream, and a spoonriil of soy, if ap- 
proved ; and pour it over the bird : or liver and lemon- 
sauce. Hcn-biids arc best for boilicg, and bhould be 
young. 



eOULTHY. iiJV 

To roast Tiirknj. 

The sinews of the leg should be drawn, whichever wsy 
it is dressed. The bead should } e tsvisted under the wing : 
and in drawing it, take care not to tear the liver, nor let 
the gall touch it. 

Pui a stuffing of sausage-meat ; or if sausages are to be 
served iii the dish, a bread-stuffing. As this makes a lar,2;e 
addition to the size of the bird, obsers'e that the heat of the 
fire is constantly to that part ; for the breast is often not 
done enough. A little strip of paper should be put on the 
bone, to hinder it from scorCi?ing while the other parts 
roast. Baste well, and froth it up. Serve with gravy in 
the dish, and plenty of bread-sauce In a sauce-tureen. Add 
a few crumbs, and a beaten egg, to the stuffing of sausage 
meat. 

VulkiJ Turkey. 

Divide the meal of the breast by pulling instead of cut- 
ting ; then warm it in a spoonliil or two of white gravy, 
and a little cream, patcd nutmeg, salt, and a little flour 
and butter ; don't boil it. The leg should be seasoned, 
scored and broiled, and put into the dish with the above 
round it. Cold chicken does as well. 
To boil Fotvl. 

For boiling, choose those that are not black-legged. 
Pick them nicely, singe, wash, and truss them. Flour 
them, and put ihemiuto boiling water. — See time ofdress^ 
ing, page 96. 

S^rve with pavtilf y and butter : oyster, lemon, liver, or 
celery sauce. 

If for dinner, ham, tongue, cr bacon, is usually served 
to eat witli theai ; as likewise greens. 

To boil Fowl With Rice. 

Stew the fowl very slowly in some clear mutton-broth 
well skimmed : and seasoned with onion, mace, pepper, and 
salt. About half an hour before it is ready, put in a quar- 
ter of a pint of rice vrell wr.shed and soaked. Simmer till 
tender : tlien strain it from the broth, and put the rice on 
a sieve before the fjre. Keep the fowl hot, lay it in the 
middle of the disli, and rice round it without the broth. 
The broth will be very nice to eat as such, but the less li 
quor the fo v/l is done v. ith the better. Gravy, or parsley 
?.nd butter, for sauce. 



98 DOMESTIC COOKERY, 

Feivls roasted^ 

Serve with egg-sauce, bread-sauce, or garnished witir 
sausages or scalded parsley. 

A large barn-door fowl, ^vell bung, should be stuffed in 
the crop with sausage-meat; and served with gravy in 
the dish, and with bread-sauce. 

The head should be turned under the wing as a turkey. 
Forvls broiled. 

Split thera down the ^ back ; pepper, salt, and broil. 
Serve with mush room-sauce. 

Another tvaij. — Cut a large fowl into four quarters, put 
them on a bird-spit, and tie that on aiiother spit ; and 
half-roast ; or half-roast the whole fowl, and finish either 
on the gridiron, which will make it less dry than if whol- 
ly broiled. The fowl that is not cut before roasted, must 
fee split down the back afler. 

Davenport Forvls. 

Hang young fowls a niaht : take the livers, hearts, and 
ffenderest parts of th^ gizzards, shred veiy small, with 
half a handful of young clary, an anchovy to each fowl, 
an onion, and the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, with pep- 
per, salt, and mace, to your taste. Stuff the fowls with 
{his, and sew up the vents and necks quite close, that (he 
water may not get in. Boil them in salt and water till al- 
most done : then drain them, and put thera into a stew-pan- 
with butter enough to brown theni. Serve them with fine 
melted butter, and a spoonful of ketchup, of either sort, in 
t]ie dish. 

A nice way to dress a Fowl far a small Dish. 

Bone, singe, and v.ash, a young fowl : make a force- 
meat of four ounces of veal, tAVO ounces of scraped lean of 
ham, two ounces of fat bacon, tvro hard yelks of eggs, a 
tew sweet herbs chopped, two ounces of beef-suet, a tea- 
spoonful of lemon-peel minced quite fine, an anchovy, salt, 
pepper, and a very little Cayenne. Beat all in a mortar, 
with a tea-cupful of crumbs, and the yolks and whites of 
tliroe egjrs. Stuff the inside of the fowl, and draw the legs 
and wings inwanls; tie the neck and mm p close. Stew 
the fowl in a A\hUe grav} ; when it is done through and 
tender, add a large cuphil of cream, and a bit of butter 
and flour; give it one boil, and serve: the last thing, add 
The squeeze of a lemorr. 



POLLIiiY. 9i> 

To force Fowl, ccc. 
lo to btuii ^37 part with force-meat, arid it is put usually 
between tiie skiu and iiesli. 

To hrauc, 
Is to put meat into a stew-paD, covered with fat bacon : 
tlieu add six or eight onions, a faggot of herbs, carrots il' 
to be brown, celery, an) bones, or trimmings of meat oi> 
fowls, and some stock (which )ou A^ill find among ^'om/?^- 
a:]d Gravies). The bacon must be covered with a paper, 
and the lid of the pan must be ptit down close. Set it oa 
a slow siove; and according to what it is, it will require 
two or three iiours. The meat is then to be taken out ; 
and the gravv very nicely skimmed, and set on to boil 
very quick till it is tiiick. Tiie meat is to be kept hot; 
and if larded, put into the oven a lew minutes : and then 
put the jelly over it, which is called glazing, and is used 
for liam, tonj^ue, and many made dishes. White wme is 
added to some iiiazing. The glaze should be of a beauti- 
ful clear yellow brown, and it is best to put it oq with a 
n ce brush. 

Fricassee of Chickens. 

Boil rather more than half, in a small quantity of 
vi'ater ; let them cool ; tiien cut up ; and put to simmer ia 
a little gravy made of the 1 quor they are boiled in and a 
bit of veal, or mutton, onion, mace, and lemon-peel, some 
white pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs. When quite 
tender, keep th m hot while you thicken the sauce in the 
following manner: strain it olF, and put it back into tne 
sau< e-pau wuh a little salt, a scrape of nutmeg, and a bit 
of flour and butter ; ^ive it one boil; and wheu you are 
going to serve, beat up t:ie yolk of an egg, add half a p nt 
of cream, and stir them over tae fire, but don't let it boil. 
It will be qu'te as oood witliout the e^^. 

Tbe gravy may be made (without any other meat) of 
the necks, feet, small wing bones, gizzards, and livers 5, 
F ' ch are c died the tximrai igs of the fowls. 
To pull Chicketis. 

Take off the skin ; and pull tiie (Icsh off the bone of a 
€oM fowl, in as lar e piec-^s as you can : dreds:e it with 
flour, and fry- it of mice bvo\vn in butter. Drain the but- 
ter from it J aod then simiuer the tlesii in a good ^ary 

I 2 



100 BCMESTfC COOKER V. 

well sea? onec], and thickened with a little flour and butter. 
Add tie juice cf half a lemon. 

Another way. — Cut elf the legs, and the T; hole back, oi" 
a dressf d chicken ; it' under-done, the better. Pull all tic. 
T^hite part into little flakes free from skin, toss it up ^vith 
a little cream thickened v.ith a piece of butter mixed ^vith 
ilcur, half a blade of mace in powder, -white pepper, salt, 
and a squeeze of lemon. Cut off the neck-end of the 
chicken ; and broil the back and sidesmen in one piece, 
and the tT.o lei-s seasoned. Put the hash iu the middle, 
with the back on it ; and the tv.o legs at the end. 
Chicken Cwric. 
Cut up the chickens raw, nlice onions, and fry bolli iu 
butter with great care, of a fine light brown ; or if j ou use 
chickens that have been dressed, fry only the onions. Lay 
the joints, cut into i\\o or three pieces each, into a stew- 
pan; with a veal or mutton gravj-, and a clove or two of 
garlic. Simimer till the chicken is quite tender. Half an 
hour before you serve it, rub smooth a spoonful or two of 
rice fiour, a spoonful of superfine dour, and an ounce of 
butter ; and add this, with four large spoonfuls of cream 
to the stew. Salt to your taste. When serving, fquee2;e 
in a little lemon. 

Slices of under-done real, ov i-abbit, turkey, <fcc. make 
excellent currie. 

A d*sh of rice boiled dry must be served. Fov direc- 
tions to do tins sec the article Rice iu the Index. 

Another, mere easily wade. — Cut up a cliicken or young, 
rabbit; if chicken, take off the skin. Roll each piece in 
a mixture of a large spoonful of flour, and half an ounce of 
rice flour. Slice two or three onions; and fry tliem io 
butter, of a light brown : then add the meat, and fry all to^ 
gether till the meat begins to brown. Put it all into a stew- 
pan, and pour boiling water enough just to cover it. Sim- 
mer very geutly two or three hours. If too thick, put 
more water half an hour before sei-ving. 

If the meat has been dressed before, a little broth will 
be better than water : but the currie is richer when mad© 
of fresh meat. 

To h raise Chickens. 
Bone them, and fill them with force-meat. Lay th^ 



POULTri. lOl 

rjcccif., au'd any other pouUiy irlmniinj.?, into a ite^v-pae. 
anu the ciiickeiis on thoni. Put to thesi a few $ aiohs, a 
fa^£Ot ol herbs, three Hades of macp, a pint of stocky and 
a glass or two of shevr} . Cover the chickens 'vith slices 
of bacon, and thea ;\hite pepper; cover the ^vhole ciosef 
and put them on a slow stove for t^o hours. Then take 
them up, strain tiie braise, and skim oIT the fat careful ly : 
set it or. to boil ver}' quick to a glaze, and do the chickens 
over with it with a brush. Serve with a brown fricassee 
of mushroom?. Before glazing, put the chicken into an 
even for a few minute?, to give a little colour. 

Ducks roasted. 
Serve ivith a fine gravy : and stulT one w ith sage and 
onion, a dessert-spoontiil of ci iimbs, a bit of butter, and 
pepper and salt; let the other be ui^seasoned. 

To boil Duck.-?. 
Choose a fiae fat duck; salt it two days, then boil if 
slowly in a cloth. Serve it with onion sauce, but melt 
the butter with milk instead of water. 

To siew Ducks. 
Half-roast a duck ; put it into a stew-pan with a pint 
of beef-gravy, a few leaves of sage and mint cut small, 
pepper and salt, and a small bit ol onicn shred as line as 
possible. Simmer a quarter of an hour, and skim clean : 
then add near a quart of green peas. Cover close, and 
simmer near half an hour longer. Put in a piece of but- 
ter and a little flour, and give it one boil ; then serve in 
one dish. 

To hash Ducks. 
Cut a cold duck into joints ; and warm it, without boil- 
ing m graves and a glass of port wine. 

To roast Goose. 
After it is picked, the plugs of the feathei-s pulled out, 
and the hairs carefully singed, let it be well w ashed and 
dried, and a seasoning put in of ociou, sage, and pepper 
and salt. P'asten it tight at the neck and rump, and then 
roast. Put it first at a distance fron» the fire, and by de- 
grees draw it nearer. A slip of paper should be skewered 
en the breast bone Baste it verj' well. W hen the breast 
is rising, take olT the paper ; and be careful to serve it be- 
fore thf Vreast falls, or it will ^p spoiled Vy crmin- flat- 
ted to table. Let a good gravy be sent in the dish. 



102 D05iKSTlC COOKtaY. 

Grayy and apple-sauce : gooscbeny saace fov a greea 
i^oose. 

To sU:}v Gihlcls, 

Do tlicra as v^ill be din-cted for ^iblet-pie (under th 
]iead Pics J ; season llieni With salt and pepper; and a ve- 
ry small piece of inace. Before serving, tive them one 
boH Avitb a cup of cream, and a piece of butter rubbed in 
a tea-spooufui oi" flour. 

Pigeons 
May be dressed in eomauy \va} s, that they are very use- 
ful. The good flavour of them depends very much oa 
their being cropped and drawn as soon as killed. JN"© 
other bird requires so much vv ashing 

Pi. eons left from dinner the day before may be stewed, 
or made into a pie : in either case, care must be taken not 
to overdo them, Avhich will make tlieni stringy. They 
need only be heated up in sravy made ready ; and force- 
meat balls may be fried and added, instead of putting a 
stuffing into them. If for a pie, let beef-steaks be stewed 
in a little water, and put cold under Ihem, and cover each 
pigeon with a piece of fat bacon, to keep them moist. 

Season as ucual, and put eggs. 

7'i? stciv Pigeons. 

Take care that they are quite fresh, 'm^^ carefully crop- 
ped, drawn, and washed ; then soak tliem half an hour. 
In the mean time cut a hard wliite cabbage in slices (as if 
for pickling) into water: drain it, and then boil it in milk 
and v/ater : drain it again, and lay some of it at the bottom 
of a stew-pan. Put the pigeons upon it, but first season 
thera well with pepper and salt ; and cover them with the 
remainder of the cabbage. Add a little broth, and stew 
gently iiU t!'e pigeons are tender ; then put among them 
two or three s^KJonfuls of cream, and a piece of butter and 
flour, for thick ^iuioij. After a boil or two, serve the birds 
ill the middle, and the cabbage placed round them. 
^ Another wai/. — ^iow the birds in a good brown gravy, 
cither stuO^' d or not; and seasoned high with spice and 
xniishrooms fresh, or a little ketchup. 

To hrcil Pigeons. 

After ckaniiig, split the barks, oppperand salt them, and 
Ijroil tkcm very uiccly ; poui- over tJiem either gtewed or 



POULTRY. 103 

pickled mushrooms in melted butter, and serve as hot a?- 
possible. 

Roast Pig-co7is 

Should be stuflfed ^vith parsley, either cut or wiiole ; and 

seasoned within. SeiTe with parsley and butter. Peas* 

or asparagus should be dressed to eat ".rith tliem. 

To pickle Pigeons. 

Bone tliem ; turn the inside out, and lard it. Season 
%vith a little allspice and sail, in fine powder; then turn 
them again, and tie the neck and rump with thread. Put 
diem into boilinir water : li t them boil a minute or two to 
plumb : take them out, and dry them well; then put them 
boiling hot into the pickle, which must be made of equal 
quantities of white wine and white wine-vinegar, with 
■white . pepper and allspice, sliced giui^er and nutmeg. 
Vriien it boils up, put the pigeons in. If they are small, a 
quarter of an hour will do them; but they will take twen- 
ty minutes if large. Then take tiiem out, wipe them, and 
let them cool. When the pickle is cold take the fat off 
from it, and put them in again. Kiep them in a stone i:iV 
tied down with a bladder to keep out the air. 

Instead of larding, put into some a stuffing made of hard 
yolks of eggs and marrow in equal quantities with sweet 
herbs, pepper, salt, and mace. 

Pigeons in JcUij. 

Save some of the lie;Uor in vvhich a knuckle of ^eal has 
been boiled : or boil a calf's or a neat's foot ; put the broth 
into a pan with a blade of mace, a bunch of sweet herb?, 
some white pepper, lemon-peel, a slice of lean bacon, and 
the pi£:eons. Bake them, and let them stand to be cold. 
Season them as you like, before baking. When done, take 
them out of the liquor, cover them close to preserve the 
colour, and clear the jelly by boiling with the whites of 
two egts ; then strain it through a thick cloth dipped ia 
boiling water, and put into a sieve.. The fat must be per- 
fectly removed, before it be cleared. Put the jelly over 
and around them rouah. 

The same, a beautiful disk. — Pick two very nice pi- 
geons ; and make them look as well as possible by sing- 
ing, was];ing, mid cleaning tlie head well. Leave the head 
and the feet on, b'ltthe nails must be clipped close to the 
claws. Roast them ©fa verv nice brown : and when done 



104 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

put a little spiig of myrtle into tlie bill of each. Have 
readj a savoury jelly, as before, and with it half-fill a bowl 
of such a size as shall be proper to turn down on the dish 
you mean it to be served In. "When the jelly and the birds 
are cold, see that no gravy hang to the birds, and then lay 
them upside down in the jelly. Before the rest of it be- 
gins to set, 1)011 r it over the birds so as to be three inches 
above tlie feet. This should be done full twenty -four 
hours before serving. 

This dish has a very handsome appearance in the mid- 
dle range of a second course : or when served with the 
jelly roughed large, it makes a side or corner tiling, its size 
being then less. The head should be kept up as if alive, 
by tying the neck with some tliread, and the legs bent as if 
the pigeon sat upon them. 

To pot Pigeons. 

Let tijem be quite fresh, clean them carefully, and sea- 
sou them with salt and pepper : lay them close in a small 
deep pan ; for the smaller the surface, and the closer they 
are packed, the less butter will be wanted. Cover them 
with butter, then with very thick paper tied down, and 
bake them. When cold, put tliem dry into pots that will 
hold two or three in each; and pour butter over them, us- 
i'i.^ that which Avas baked as part. Observe that the but- 
ter shouidbe pretty tliick over them, if they are to be kept. 
If jji^aoiis wer;3 boned, and then put in an oval form into 
the pot, they would lie closer, and require less butter. 
They nmy be stuffed with a fine forcemeat made with voal, 
l;acon, f^'c. and then they will eat excellently. Tf a high 
llavour is approved of, add mace, allspice, and a little Cay- 
cune, before baking. 

Larks, and other small Birds. 

Draw, and spit tf lem on a bird-spit ; tie this on another 
spit, and roast tliem. Baste gently witii butter, and strew 
bread-cruHibs upon tliem till half-done : brown and serve 
with fried crumbs round. 

GAMF, <5:c. 
To keep Game^ &c. 

Game ought not to be tluown av.ay even when it has 
been k-pt a very longtime; for when it seems to be 
spoiled it may often be made fit for eatin;:, by nicely 
'leaning it, and washing with vinegar and water. Vi 



gajie, tfcc. 10,:' 

there is danger of birds not lieepiirir, dra'w, crop, and 
pick theni; then v. ash iu two or three waters, and nib 
them uith salt. Have ready a large sauce-paii of boii- 
iuo; "water, and piunkc them into it one by eae ; drawing 
tliem up and down by the legs, that the water may pass 
through tlieni. Let them stay five or six minutes in ; then 
hang them up in a cold place. When drained, pepper 
and salt the insides welj. Before roasting, wash them well. 

The most delicate birds, even grouse, may be preserved 
thus. Those that live by suction cannot be done this iTay, 
as they are never dra^vn ; and perhaps the heat might 
make them worse, as the water could not pass through theni^ 
but tliey bear lieing high. 

Lumps of charcoal put about birds and meat will pre- 
serve them from taint, and restore ^vhat is spoiling. 
Fkcasanls and Vartrids^es. 

Roast them as turkey; and serve with a fine gravy 
(into AYhich put a very small bit of garlic), and biv ad- 
sauce. When cold, they may le made into excelh nt pat- 
ties, but their flavour should not be overpowered by lemon. 
For the manner of tnissing a pheasant or partridge, see 
pk'te IX. 

To pot Partridge, or Quail. 

Clean thrm nicely ; :^nd season with mace, alisyice, white 
pcpppr, and salt, in fine powder. Hub every part well ; 
then lay the breast dcwuwards in a pan, and pack the birds 
as close as } ou poss'bly can. Put a good deal of butter 
on them ; thfu cover the pan with a coarse flour-paste and 
a paper over, tie :t close, and bske. AYhen cold, put the 
birds into pots, and cover them 'vith butter. 

A very cheap way of pottins- Birds. 

Pr'^pare them as directed i-i the last receipt; and when 
baked and grown cold., cut them into proper pieces for 
helpinc-, pack them close into a large ptntiug-pan, and (if 
possible) leave no spaces to receive the butter. Cover 
them with butter, aad one-third part less i7iil be wanted 
than when the birds are dene whole. 

Tlie butter that has covered potted things will serve for 
basting, or for paste for meat pies. 

To dress Moor-Fowl with Red Cahhazf!. 

Truss the moor-game as for boiling j put thera on with a 



106 D03iKbrie cooivEfi\. 

little soup, let them stew for hall* an hour ; <!ut a stock o! 
rcfl cribbage in four quarters, put it to the moor-fowl, sea- 
son with white pepper and salt, a little piece ofbutltr roll- 
ed ill Hour; the addition of a ^!ass of port wi;5e is liKed by 
many people. Lilt cut the cabi age, and place it neatly 
in the dish, tlie moor-foAvl oj it. Pour the sauce over them, 
and garnish with small slices of I aeon fried. 

To clarify Butter for potted Tkinas. 

Put it into a sauce-boat, and set that over the fire in a 
stew-pan that has a little water in. VViieu melted, take 
care not to pour the milky parts over the potted things : 
they will sink to tlie bottom. 

To pot Moor Game. 

Pick, singe, and w ash the birds nicely ; then dry them ; 
and season, inside and out, pretty high, witli pepper, iliace, 
uutmeg, allspice, and salt. Pack them in as ^mall a pot as 
will iioid tliem, cover them witii butter, and bake in a very 
Bio-.v'oveii. When cold, take offthe butter, dr} them from 
thefrravy, and put o le bird into each pot, uiiich should 
just fit. Add as much more butter as will cover them, but 
take care that itdoesnoi oil. The best May to melt it is, 
by warming it in a basin set in a bowl of hot water. 
Graiisc, 

Roast them like fowls, but the head is to b twisted un- 
der the wing. They must not be over-done. Serve w ith 
a rich jjravy in the dish, nnd bread-^auce. Tlie sauce for 
■wild-fowl, as \nll be described hereafter under the head 
of Sauces^ may be used instead of common jiravy. 
To roast Wild Fowl. 

The flavour is b.st pr s rved without stufling. Put 
pepp< r, salt, and a pjece of butter into each. 

Wild fowl require much less diessinir th<\n tame : thej 
should be served of a fine colour, and well frothed up. A 
ricii brown gravy should be sent in the dish : and wliea 
Die breast is cut into slices, before taking oil* the bone, a 
squeeze of lemon, with pepper and salt, is a <:;rcat improve- 
meut to theJ3avour. 

To take olf the fishy taste which wild fowl sometimes 
have, put an onion, salt and hot vvUer, into the dripping- 
pan, and baste them for the fir^t ten minutes with' th s; 
theu take away Uie pan, and baste cou&tautly with butter. 



Wild Ducks, Teal, Si'. 
Should be takeu up with the gravy in. Baste them with 
butter ; and sprinkle a little salt before they are taken up, 
put a good gra\y upon them, and serve w ith shalot-sauce, 
in a boat. 

Woodcocks, Snipes, and Quails 
Keep good several days. Roast them without drawing, 
and serve on toast. Butter only should be eaten with 
them, as gravy takes off from the fine flavour. The 
thigh and back are esteemed the most. For the manner 
of trussing a woodcock or snipe, see plate IX. 
To dress Plovers. 

Roast the green ones in the same way as woodcocks 
and quails (see above) without drawing ; and serve on a 
toast. Gray plovers may he either roasted, or stewed 
with gravy, herbs, and spice. 

Plovers Eggs 
Are a nice and fashionable dish. Boil them ten minutes, 
and serve either hot or cold on a napkin. 
Guinea and Pea Fowl 
Eat much like pheasants. Dress them in the same way. 
{Seepecge 10 5.) 

HareSt and Rabbits, 
If properly taken care of, ^^A\ keep a great time, and eve« 
when the cook fancies them past eating, may be in the high- 
est perfection ; which if eaten when fresh killed they are 
not. As they are usually paunched in the field, the cook 
cannot prevent this : but the hare keeps longer, and eats 
much better, if not opened for four or live days, or accord- 
ing to the weather. 

If paunched, as soon as a hare comes in it should be 
wiped quite dry, the heart and liver taken out, and the 
liver scalded to keep for the stuffing. Repeat this wiping 
every day ; mix pepper and ginger, and rub on the in- 
side; and put a large piece of charcoal into it. If the 
spice is applied early, it will prevent that mrusty taste 
which long keeping in the damp occasions, and which 
also affects the stuffing. 

An old hare should be kept as long as possible : if to be 
roasted. It must also be well soaked. 



108 DOMESTIC COOKERY^ 

To roast Hare. 

After it is skinned, let it be extremely well ^v ashed, 
and then soalted an hour or two in wa;er : and if old, lard 
it : which will make it tender, as also will letting it lie in 
vinec-ar. 

If however it is put into vinegar, it should be exceed- 
ingly well washed in water afterwards. Put a large rel- 
ishing stuffing into the belly, and then sew it up. Baste 
it well with rnllk till half-done, and afterwards with but- 
ter. If the blood has settled in the neck, soaking the part 
in warm water, and putting it to the fire warm, will remove 
it : especially if you also nick the skin here and there with 
a small knife to let it out. The Jiare should be kept at a 
distance from the fire at first. Serve with a fine froth, 
rich gravy, melted butter, and currant-jelly sauce : tlie 
gravy in the dish. !■ or stuffing use the liver, an anchovy 
some fat bacon, a little suet, herbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, 
a little onion, crumbs of bread, and an egg to bind it all. 

The ears must be nicely cleaned and singed. They 
are reckoned a dainty. 

For the manner of trussing a hare, sec plate IX. 
To jug an old Hare. 

After cleaning and skinning, cut it up : and season it 
•with pepper, salt, allspice, pounded mace, and a little 
nutmeg. Put it into a jar with an onion, a clove or two, 
a bunch of sweet kerbs, a piece of coarse beef, and the 
carcass-bones over all. Tie the jar down with a bladder, 
and leather or strong paper ; and put it into a sa ace-pan 
of water up to the neck, but no higher. Keep the v.ater 
boiling five hours. When it is to be served, boil tlie gra- 
vy up with a piece of butter and (lour : and if the meat get 
cold, warm it in this, but not to boil. 

Broiled and hashed Hare. 

The flavour of broiled hare is particularly fine ; the 
legs or wings must be seasoned first ; rub with cold butter, 
and sen e very hot- 

The other parts, warmed with gravy, and a little stuf- 
fing, may be sened separately. 

To pot Hare, 
i^ov which an old one does well, as likewise for soup and 



GAME, <tf. 1®9 

After seasomog it, bake it AvitJi butter. IThen cold, 
take the meat frcm the bones, and beat i: in a moitar. If 
not high enoutjh, add saU, mace, pepper, nnd a piece of 
the finest fresh butter mehed in a spoonful or two of the 
gravy th:it came from the hare. When ivell mixed, put 
it into small pots, and cover with butter. The le«:s and 
back should be baked at the bottom of the jar, to keep them 
Hi cist, and the bones be put over them. 

Rabbits 
May be eaten various ways, as follo^vs. 

Roasted with stuffins and crav-^-, like hare, or without 
stuf&n^; with sauce of the liver and parsley chopped in 
melted butter, pepper, and salt ; or larded. For the man- 
ner of tmsshig a rabbit for either roasting or boiling, see 
plate IX. 

Boiled, and smothered with onion sauce : the butter to 
be melted with milk instead of water. 

Fried in joints, with dried or fried parsley. The same 
liver-sauce, this way also. 

Fricasseed, as before directed (in page 99) for chickens. 

In a pie, as chicken, with forcemeat, &e. In this w^ay, 
they are excellent when young. 

Potted. 

7'o 77iake a Rabbit taste much like Hare, 

Choose one that is young, but full grown : hang it hi 
the skin three or four days ; then skin it ; and lay it, with- 
out wasliing, in a seasoning of black pepper and allspice 
in a very fine powder, a glass of port wine, and the same 
(piantity of vinegar. Baste it occasionally, for forty 
kours ; then stuff" it, and roast it as a hare, and with the 
same sauce. i3o not wash off the liquor that it was soaked 
in. 

To pot Rabbits. 

Cut up two or three young but full grown ones, and take 
tiie leg )3ones off at the thigh ; pack .hem as closely as 
possible in a small pan, after seasouin? tliem with pepper, 
mace, Cayenne, salt, and allspice, all in very fine powcler. 
Make the top as smooth as you can. Keep out the heads 
and the carcasses, but take off the meat about the neck. 
Put a good deal of butter, and bake the whole gently. 
TCeep it two days in the panj theo shift it into small pots= 



TIO DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

adding butter. The livers also should be added, as tUey 
eat well. 

To blanch Ralhit, Fowl, &c. 
Is to set it on the fire in a small quantity of cold ivatcr, 
and let it XoA : as soon as it boils, it is to be taken out, an^ 
put in?o cold 'water for a few minutes. 



FART IF. 



SOUPS AND GRAVlES^. 

ireneral Directions respecting' Soups and Gravies. 

When there is any fear of ^ravy-meat being spoiled 
before it be wanted, season well, and fry it lightly, which 
will preserve it tv.o days longer; but the gravy is best 
when the juices are fresh. 

When soups or gravies are to be put by, let thera be 
changed every day into fresh scalded pans. Whatever 
has vegetables boiled in it, is apt to turn sour sooner than 
the juices of meat. Never keep any gravy, S:c. in metal. 

When fat remains on any soup, a tea-cupful of flour 
and water mixed quite smooth, and boiled in, will take 
It off. 

If richness, or greater consistency, be wanted, a good 
lump of butter mixed with flour, and boiled in the soupy 
^ will give either of these qualities. 

Long boiling is necessary to give the full flavour of the 
ingredients, tiierefore time should be allowed for soups 
«ind «^rravies ; and they are best if made the day before 
llicy are wanted. 

Soups and gravies are far better when the meat is put 
at the bottom of the pan, and stewed, and the herbs, roots, 
&c. with butter, than when water is put to the meat at 
first ; and the gravy that is drawn from tlie meat should 
be almost dried up before the vvater is put to it. J3on't use 
tiie sediment of gravies, tVc. tliat have stood to be cold. 
When onions are strong, boil a turnip with them ; if for 
sauce this will malvc them mild. 

If soups or gravies are too weak, do not cover them ia 
boiUnff, that fhe watery particles may evaporate. 



SOUPS. 1 H 

A clear jelly of Cow-heels is veiy useful to keep in the 

house, being a great impr overaent to soups aud gravies. 

Vermicetli and Macaroni tiiickeu soups aud sauces, 
and give them a fine liavour. Wash an ounce of each 
carefully, then simmer them a few minutes m water, 
and add them with the hquor, to boil in the sauce, &c. 
till tender. 

30UPS, &-C. 
Mutton Broth. 

Soak a neck of mutton in water for an hour : cut off th^ 
5CrA«, and put it into a stew-pan with two quarts oi water. 
As soon as it boils, skim it well, and then simmer it an 
hour and a half, then take the best end ol the uuitton, 
cut it into pieces (two tones in each), take som< ot the 
fat oil, and put as many as you think pioper : skim the 
moment the fresh meat loils up, and every quarter of aa 
hour afterwards. Have reaay four or five carrots, the 
same number of turnips, and three onions, all cut, but 
not small; aud put them in soon enough to get c^uite ttUt 
der: a; Id four large spoonfuls of barley, or rice, first wet- 
ted with cold water. The meat should stew three houra. 
ShU to taste, and seive altogether. Twenty minutes be- 
fore sei-vififf, put in some chopped parsley. It is an excel- 
lent r\ inter-dish. 

FfaZ Broth. 

Stew a small knuckle in about three quarts of water, 
two ounces of rice, a little salt, and a blade of mace, till th^ 
Bquor is half wasted away. 

Colouring for Soups or Gravies. 

Put four ounces of lump sugar, a gill of water and half 
an ounce of the finest butter, into a small tosser, and set it 
O' er a gentle fire. Sth' it with a wooden spoon, till of a 
bright brown. Then add half a pint of water ; boil, skim, 
and when cold, bottle and cork it close. Add to soup or 
gravy as much cf this as will 2,1 ve a proper colour. 
A clear hrorvn Stock for Gr ivy-Soup or Gravy. 

Put a knuckle of veal, a pound of lean beef, ajd h pound 
of the lean of a gammon or bacon, all sliced, into a stew-p in 
with two or three scraped carrots, two onions, two turnips, 
tvro ilea Is of celery sliced, and two quarts of water. Stexr 
^be laeat quite teader, but do lot let it brown. W}»eQ thvfs? 
K 2 



112 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

prepared, it v. ill serve either lor soup, or biown or white 
grav> ; if lor brow ii §rav} , put some of the above colouring 
and boii a few luinutes. 

An excellent Soup. 

Take a scrag or kuuckle ol veal, slices of undressed 
gamniou or bacon, onions, mace, ai.d a small quantity of 
water ; simmer till very strong: and lower it with a jiood 
beef-broth made the daj before, and stewed till the meat 
is done to rags. Add cream, vermicelli, and almonds, as 
will be directed in the next receipt, and a roll. 
A7i excellent white isoup. 

Take a scrag of mutton, a knuckle of veal, after cutting 
off as much n eat as will make colUips, two or three shank- 
bones of n uttoij uiccl}' cleaned, and a quarter of a pound 
of very fine unc'rest lean i^ammon of bacon : with a bunch 
of sweet herbs, a piece of fresh lemon-peel, two or three 
onions, three blades of mace, and a desgert-spoonful of 
•white pepper; boil ail in three quarts of water, till the 
meat /alls quite to pieces. IS'ext day take off the iat, clear 
the jelly from the sediment, and put it into a sauce-pan of 
^le nicest tin. If macaroni is used, it should be added 
soon enough to get perfect!}^ tender, after leaking in cold 
■eater. Vermicelli may be added after the thickening, as 
it requires less time to do. Have leadj the thickening, 
"which is to be made as follows : 

Blanch a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, and beat 
tliem to a paste in a marble mortar with a spoonful of Ava- 
ter to prevent their oiling ; mince a lar^'C slice of drest veal 
•r chicken, and beat it wiili a piece of stale white bread ^ 
add all this to a pint of thick cream, a bit of fresh lemon- 
p(f 1, and a blade of mace, in the finest powder. Boil it a 
few minutes : add to it a pint of soup, and strain and pulp 
it through a coarse sieve: this thickruina" is then fit fop 
putnnjr to the rest, which should boil for half an hour af- 
terwards. 

A plainer white Soup, 

Two or three pints of soup ma> be piade of a small 
knuckle of veal, with seasoning as directed in the last piv 
licle ; and both served together, with the addition of a 
q;u»rtfr of p pint of good milk. Tmo spoonfuls of cream> 
Slid a little giowid rice, will give it a proper tluckuess. 



SOTPS. 113 

Giblct Soup, 

Scald and clean three or Icui sets of goose or duck gib- 
lets : set thtni to ste\\, with a pouud or two of gra\7-beef, 
scrag of HiUttou, or he boue ola Iim;clvle of veal; an ox- 
tail, or sonje shanks of mutton ; With three onions, a large 
bunrh of sweet lierbs, a tea-spooutul ot white pepper, and a 
lar^e spoonful of salt. Put five pints of w ater, and simmer 
till ti.e gizzards (At hich must be each in four pieces) are 
quite tender: skim nicel}, and add a quarter of a pint of 
cream, two tea-spoonfuls of mushroom powder, and an 
ounce of butter mixed with a dessert-spoonful of tlour. 
Let it boil a few minutes, and serve with the giblets. It 
may be seasoned, instead of cream, ^vith two glasses of 
siserry or Bla'eira, a large spootiful of ketchup, and some 
Cajenue. When in the tureen, add salt. 
Partridge Soup. 

Take two old partridges; skin them : and cnt them into 
pieces, with three or four slices of ham, a stick of celery, 
and three large onions cut into slices. Fry them all in 
butter till brown, but take care Jiot to burn them. Then 
j)Ut them into a stew-pan, with five pints of boiling water, 
a few pepper-forns, a shank or two of mutton, and a little 
salt. Stew it gently two hours ; then strain it throu£;h a 
sieve, and put it again into a stew-pan, with some stewed 
celery aiid fried bread : when it is near boiling, skim it, 
pour it into a tureen, and serve it up hot. 
Macaroni Soup. 

Boil a pound of the best macaroni in a quart of good 
stock till quite tender; then take out half, and put it into 
another stew-j)ct. To the remainder add some more stock, 
and boil it tilt you can pulp all the macaroni through a 
fine sieve. Then add together that, the two bquors, a 
pint or more of cream boiiug-hot, the macaroni that was 
fir^t taken out, and half a pound of grated Parmesai or 
pine' apple cleese ; make it hot, but do not let it boil. 
Serve it with the crust of a roll cut into the size of a shil- 
ling. 

A Pepper-pot, to he served in a Tureen. 

To three quarts of water put vegetables according t« 
the season ; iii sunmier, peas, lettuce, and spii.ach ; in win- 
ter, carrots^ turnips, celery ; and onions iu both* Ciiti 



ii4 juoMiis'iie ceoKERV. 

small,' and sie\f with two poirnds of neck ol routtoo, or a 
fovi 1, and a pound ol pickled pork, in three quaiib oi y, aier 
till quite te/idcr. 

On first boiling, skim. Half an lnur before serving, 
add a lobster, or crab, cleared froni the bones. Stafcon 
with salt and Catenae. A small quautity of rice should 
be put in with the meat Some peo\A' choose ver} small 
suet dumplings boiled with it. SLouUi' any lai rise, skim 
nicely, and put half a cup of water wul> a little flour. 

Pepper-pot may be made of various things, and is un- 
derstood to be a due proportion offish, liesh, fow 1, vegeta- 
bles, and pulse. 

Turnip Soup. 

Take off a knuckle ol veal all tlie meat that cau be 
inade into cutlets, «S:c. and set ihe re.iainder ou to stew 
with an onion, a bunch of herbs, a blade oi mace, and five 
pints of water ; cover it close ; and let it do on a slow 
fire, four or live Jiours at least. Strain it, and set it by 
till next day ; tlicn take (he fat and se.'iment from it, and 
simmer it with turnips cut into small dice till tender, sea- 
soning it with salt and pepper. Befo.i. -ervino:, rub down 
lialf a spoonful of flour with half a pint of good cream, and 
the size of a walnut of butter. Let a small roll simmer in 
tJie soup till wet through, and serve i\\h with it. It should 
be as thick ar, middling cream. 

Old Peas Soup. 

Save the water of boiled pork or beef; and if too salt, 
put as much fresh water to it ; or use fresh water entirely, 
WJt^! roast-beef Ixjnes, a ham or ganmion-bonc, or an an- 
ohovy or two. Simmer these with sonie c:ood wliole or 
split peas; the smaller the quantity of water at first, the 
better* Simmer till the peas Avill pulp through a colan- 
der; then set the pulp, and more of the liquor that I oiled 
tlio peas, with two carrots, a turnip, a I ek, and a stick of 
celery cut into bits, to stew till all is quite tender. The 
last reauires less time ; an hour will do for it. 

When readv, put fried bread cut into dice, dried mint 
nibbed fine, pepper, and (if wanted) salt, into the tureen; 
and pour the soup in. 

Green Peas Soup. 

In f hellincr the pras, divide the old from the young; 
jput the old ones, with an ounce of butter, a pint of water. 



socpji. - US' 

tliecutside leaves of a lettuce or two, tv.o onions, pepper, 
and salt, to stew till you can pulp tlic peas ; and when 
you have done so, put to the liquor that stewed them some 
more water, the hearts and tender stalks oi'the lettuces, the 
Toung peas, a handful of spinach cut small, and salt and 
pepper to relish properly, and stew till quite solt. If the 
soup is too thin, or not rich enough, either of these faults 
may be removed by adding an ounce or two of butter, mix- 
ed wi:.h a spoonful of rice or wheat-flour, and boiled with 
it half an hou^. Before seniag, boil some green mint shred 
fine in the soup. 

When there is plenty of ve£:etablcs, no meat is necessary, 
but if meat be preferred, apiir's foot or hain-bone, 6:.c. mny 
be boiled with the old peas, wlrkh is called the stock. 
IV'lore butter than is mentioned above may be used with 
advf.ntace, if the soup is required to be very rich. 

When peas first come in, or are vei-y youni', tlie stock 
ii;aybe made of the shells washed, and boiled till they will 
pulp with the above ; more thickening will then be wanted. 
Gravy Soup. 
-Wash and soak a leg of beef: break the bone and set it 
on the fire with a gallon of water, a large bunch of sweet 
herbs, two lar^e onions sliced and fried afuic brown (but 
Bot burnt), two blades of mace, three cloves, twenty berries 
•f allspice, and forty black peppers. Stew till the soup is 
as rich as you choose ; then take out the meat, which will 
be fit for the servants' table with a little of the gravy. 
]N"ext day take ofi" the cake of fat : Avhich will serve for 
bastin«r, or for common pie-crust. Have ready such ve- 
getables as you choose to serve. Cut carrots, turnips, and 
celeiy, small, and simmer till tender : some people do not 
like them to be sent to table, only the flavour of them. Boil 
vermicelli a quarter of an hour; and add to it a large 
spoonful of soy, and one of mushroom -ketchup. A ^rench 
roll should be made hot, put into the soup till moist 
through, and sensed in the tureen. 

Vesc^tahlc Soup, 

Pare and slice five or six ciicumbers ; and add to these 
the inside of as many cos-lettuces, a sprjor or two of mint, 
two or three o^^-ons, some pepper and salt, a p^nt and ^ half 
of young peaS; and a little parsley.' Put tliese, witli halC as 



ilO DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

pound of fresh butter, into a sauce-pan, to stew in their owa 
liquor, near a gentle fTve, half an hour; then pour two 
quarts of bo linsf water to the vegetables, ami stew them two 
hours; rub down a little flour into a tea-cupful of water, 
boil it with the rest fifteen or twentj minutes, and serve it. 

Another ivay. — Peel and slice six large onions, six po- 
tatoes, six carrots, and four turnips ; fry them in half a 
pound of butter, and pour on them four quarts of boiling 
water. Toast a crust of bread as brown and hard as pos- 
sible, but do not burn it; put that, some celery, sweet 
herbs, white pepper, and salt, to the above ; stew it all 
gently four hours, then strain it through a coarse cloth : 
have ready sliced carrot, celery, and a little turnip, and 
add to your hkin.^ : and stew them tender in the soup. If 
approved, you may add an anchovy, and a spoonful of 
fcetchup. 

Carrot Soup. 

Put some beef-bcaes, with four quarts of the liquor ia 
which a leg of mutton or beef has been boiled, two large 
onions, a turnip, pepper, and salt, into a sauce-pan and stew 
for three hours. Have ready six large carrots scraped 
and cut thin ; strain the soup on them, and slew them till 
soft enough to pulp through a hair s^^ve or coarse cloth : 
then boil the pulp with the soup, which is to be as thick as 
peas-soup, tlse two wooden spoons to rub the carrots 
through. Make the soup the day before it is to be used. 
Add Cayenne. Pulp only the red part of the carrot, and 
aot the yellow. 

Onion Soup, 

Into the water that has boiled a leg or ueck of mutton, 
put carroti=, turnips, and (if } ou have one) a shank-l one, 
and sinnner two hours. Strain it on six onions, first sliced 
and fried of a light brown ; simmer three houi-s, skim it 
carefully and serve. Put into it a little roll, or fried bread. 
Spinach So7ip. 

Shred two handfuls of spinach, a turnip, two onions, a 
head of celery, two carrots, and a lit*lr thyme nnd parsley. 
Put all into a stew-pot, wilh a bit of I utter the size of a 
wnlnut, and a f)itit of broth, or the water in which meat has 
been boiled: F<ew till the vegetables are quite tender; 
w©rk them through ^ coarse cloth or sieve with a spooaj 



«oups. 117 

then to the pulp of tlic vegetables, aad liquor, put a quart 
of fresh water, pepper, and salt, and boil all together. 
Have ready some suet dumplings, the size of a walnut ; 
and before you put tie soup into the tureen, put them into 
it. The suet must not be shred too fine; and take care 
that it is quite fresh. 

Leek Soup. 

Put the water that has boiled a leg of mutton into a stew- 
pot, with a quantity of chopped leeks, and pepper and 
salt ; simmer them an hour : then mis some oat-meal with 
a little cold water quite smooth, pour it into the soup, set 
it on a slow part of the fire, and let it simmer gently ; but 
take care that it does not burn to the bottom. 
Ox Rump Soup. 

Two or tliree rumps of beef will make it stronger thai! 
a much larger quantity of meat witiiout these j and form a 
very nourishing soup. 

Make it like gravy soup, and give it what flavour or 
thickening you like. 

Hessian Soup and Ragout. 

Glean the root of a neat's tongue very nicely, and half 
an ox's head, with saU and water, aad soak them after- 
wards in water only. Then stew them in five or six 
quarts of water, till tolerably tender. Let the soup stand 
to be cold ; take oft the fai, which will make good paste 
or hot meat pies, or will do to baste. Put to the soup a 
pint of split peas, or a quart of whole ones, twelve carrots, 
six turnips, six potatoes, six large onions, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, and two heads of celery . Simmer them without the 
meat, till the vegetabie.s are done enough to pulp with the 
peas through ^< sieve; and the soup will then be about the 
thickness of cream. Season it with pepper, salt, mace, all- 
spice, a clove or two, and a little Cayenne, all in fine pow- 
der. If the peas are bad, the soup may not be thick en- 
ough ; then boil m it a slice of roll, and put it through the 
colander; or add ?f little nce-floiir, mixing it by decrees. 

For the Rasrout, ct^t the nicest part of the head, the ker- 
nels, and part of t^e fnt of the root of the tongue, into small 
thick pieces. Rub these with some of the abovp scason- 
ins", as \ou put them into a quart of the liquor, kept cut for 
that purpose before the vegetables were added ; flour well, 



118 bOMESXiC COOKER Y. 

and simmer them till nicely tender. Then put a little mush- 
room and ualnut ketchup, a little soy, a ^lass of port ♦vine 
aad a teaspooiiful ot made mustard: and boil all up to- 
gether before terved. If for company, small eggs and 
forcemeat balls. 

This way furnishes an excellent soup and a ragout at a 
small expense, and they are not common. The other part 
will warm for the family. 

Soiip a-la-sap. 

Boil half a pound of grated potatoes, a pound of beef sli- 
ced thin, a pint of grey peas, an onion, and three ounces of 
rice, in six pints of water, to five ; strain it through a co- 
lander : then pulp the peas to it, and turn ;t into a sauce- 
pan again with two heads of celer} sliced. Stew it tendrr, 
and add pepper and salt; and when you serve, add also 
fried bread. 

Portable Soup. 

Boil one or two knuckles of veal, one or two shins of beef, 
and three pounds of beef, in as much water only as will 
cover them. Take the marrow out of the bones : put any 
sort oi spice you like, and three large onions. When the 
meat is done to rags, strain it off, and put it into a i<~r^ 
cold place. When cold, take olFthe cake of fat (which 
will make crusis for servants' pies), put the soup into a 
double-bottomed tin sauce-pan, ami set it on a pretty quick 
fire, but don't let it burn. It must boil fast and uncovered, 
and be stirred constantly, for eight hours. Put into a pan, 
and let it stand i!i a cold j)lace a day ; then pour it into a 
round soup china-dish, and set the dish into a stew-pan of 
boiling water on a stove, and let it boil, and be now and 
then stirred, till the soup is thick and ropy ; then it is 
enouidi. Pour it into the little round part at the bottom 
of cups or basins turned upside down, to form cakes; and 
will n cold, turn them out on flannel to dry. Keep them in 
tin canisters. When they are to be utie(\, melt them in 
boiling water; and if you wish the flavour of herV;s, or 
any thing else, boil it first, strain off the water, and melt 
the soup in it. 

This is very convenient in the country, or at sea, where 
fresh meat is not always at hand; as by this means a ba- 
sin of soup may be made in five minutes. 



SOUPS. 119 

Soup maigre. 

Melt half a pound ot butter into a stew-pan, shake it 
louiid, and ihi'ov; m six middling onions sliced. Shake 
the pan well for two or three minutes; then put to it five 
heads of celery, two handfuls of spinach, two cabbage-let- 
tuces cut small, and some parsley. Shake the pan well 
for ten minutes ; then put in two quarts of water, some 
crusts of bread, a tea-spoonful of beaten pepper, three or 
four blades of mace ; and if you have any white beet leavei^ 
add a lar^e handful of them cut small. 

Boil gently an Iiour. Just before serving, teat in two 
yolks of eggs and a large spoonful of vinegar. 

Another. — Flour and fry a quart of green peas, four 
onions sliced, the coarse stocks of celery, a carrot, a tur= 
nip, and a parsnip ; then pour on them three quarts of wa» 
(er. Let it simmer till the whole will pulp through a sieve. 
Then boil in it the best of the celery cut thin. 
Stock for brown or white Fish Soups* 

Take four or five flounders, and two pounds of eels. 

Clean them well, and cut them into pieces : cover them 
with water ; and season them with mace, pepper, salt, aa 
onion stuck with cloves, a head of celery, two parsley- 
roots sliced, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Simmer an hour 
and a half closely covered, and then strain it off for use. 
If for brown soup, first fry th& fish brown in butter, and 
then do as above. It will not keep more than two or three 
days. 

Eel Soup. 

Take three pounds of small eels ; put to tlieni two 
liuarts of water, a criist of bread, three blades of mace, 
some whole pepper, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs : 
cover them close, and stew till the fish is quite broken; 
then strain it off. Toast some bread, cut it into dice, and 
pour {he soup on it boiling. A piece of carrot may be 
put in at first. This soup will be as rich as if made of 
meat. A quarter of a pint of rich cream, with a tea-spoon, 
tul of flour rubbed smooth in it, is a great improvement. 
Flounder Soup. 

Make it of the stock-fish for soup (as above directed) 
with an ounce of vermecelli boiled in it, a little before it 
is served. Then add half a pint of cream, beaten with the 
t 



120 UOMESTIC COOKERl^. 

yolks of two eggs. Stir it near, but not on tlie fiie. Stivt 
it with a small French roll made hot in a Dutch oven, and 
then soaked in the soup an hour. 

Excellent Lobster Soup. 

Take the meat from the claws, bodies, and tails, of six 
tjmall lobsters : take away the brown fur, and the brig in 
the head ; beat the fins, chine, and small claws, in a mor- 
tar. Boil it very gently in two quarts of Avater, with the 
crumb of a Trench i oil, some Avhite pepper, salt, two an- 
chovies, a lart;c onion, sa\ eet herbs, and a 1/it of lenutn-ptel, 
till you liave extracted the goodness of them all. Strain 
it off. Beat tlie spawn in a mortar, with a bit of butter, a 
quarter of a nutmeg, and a tea-spoonful of fiour; mix it 
-with a quart of cream. Cut the tails into pieces, and give 
them a boil up with the cream and soup. Serve with 
forceuieat balls made of the remainder of the lobster, mace, 
pepper, salt, a few crum);s, and an egi or two. Let the 
balls be made up with a bit of flour, and heated in the soup. 
Oyster Soup. 

Make a rich mutton broth, with two large onions, three 
blades of mace, and black pepper. Wlien strained pour 
it on a hundred and fifty o;\ sters, without t]ie beards, and a 
bit of butter rolled in flour. Simmer gently a quarter of 
an hour, and serve. 

Cla?7i Soup. 
To a quart of clams, add a pint of their liquor saved in 
the opf^ning, three pints of water, half a slice of bread, the 
size of a nutmeg of butter, three blades of mace, a few 
whole peppers and a bunch of sweet herbs. Cover close 
and stew for three quarters of an hour; then strain it off. 
Put toasted bread cut in dice into the tureen aud pour the 
soup boiling upon it. 

A quarter of a pint of cream added in just before serv- 
ing, adds greatly to the richness. 

GRAVIES. 

General Directions respectin<( Gravies. 

Gravy may be made quite as good of the skirts of beef, 
and the kidney, as of any other meat prepared in the same 
way. 

An ox-kidney, or milt, makes good gravy, cut all to 
pieces, and prepared as other meat; aud so will th( 



GRAVIES. 121 

siiaiik-ead of muiton iliat has been dressed, if much be not 
wanted. 

The shauk-bones of muttoQ are a great improvement to 
the richness of gravy : but first soak them well, and scour 
thera clean. 

Tara^on gives the flavour of French cookery, and in 
lui?h gravies is a great improvement; but it should be ad- 
ded only a sliort ime before servinir. 

To dress Gravy that will keep a week. 

Cut lean beef thin, put it into a fryina-pan Avithout any 
butter, and set it on a fire covered, but take care it does not 
burn : let it stay till all the grav;)^ that comes out of the 
meat is dried up into it again ; put as much water as will 
cover the meat, and let that stew away. Then put to the 
meat a small quantity of water, herbs, onions, spice, and a 
bit of lean ham ; simmer till it is rich, and keep it in a cool 
place. Dout take oiT the fat till going to be used. 
Clear Gravy, 

Slice beef thin ; broil a part of it over a veiy clear quick 
fire, just enough to give colour to the gravy, but not to dress 
it : put that and the raw into a very nicely tinned stew pan, 
W'ith two onions, a clove or two, whole black peppers, ber- 
ries of allspice, and a bunch of sweet herbs : cover it with 
hot water, give it one boil, and skim it well two or three 
times ; then cover it, and simmer till quite strong. 
Brown Gravy. 

Layover the bottom of a stew-pan as much lean veal as 
will cover it an inch thick ; then cover the veal w ith thin 
slices of undressed gammon, tw^o or three onions, some 
sweet herbs, two blades of mace, and three cloves. Cover 
the stew-pan, and set it over a slow fire ; but when the 
juices come out, let the fire be a little quicker. When the 
meat is of a fine brown, fill the pan with £:ood beef broth, 
boil and skim it, then simmer an liour : a^kl a little water, 
mixed with as much flour as will m^ke it properly thick; 
boil it half an hour, and strain it. This will keep a week. 
JVhite Sauce. 

Cut lean veal into small slices, and the same quantity of 
lean bacon or ham : put them into a stew-pan with a good 
pi'^ce of butter, an onion, a blade of mace, a few mushroom 
buttons, and a bit of thyme ; fry the whole oyer a very 



\22 DOMESTIC COOKtUl-. 

slow firo, but uot to broun il ; thicken itwilhflcur; then 
put an equatquaptity of good lirotli, and ricli cream ; let it 
boil half an hour, and stir it ail the time ; strain it through 
a soup-strainer. 

A Gravy without Meat. 

Put a glass of small-b€f r, a irlafs of water, some pepper, 
salt, IcmoD-peel grated, a bruised clove or two, and a spoon- 
ful of walnut-pickle, or musjiroom-ketchup, into a basin. 
Slice an onion, flour and fry it in a piece of butter till it is 
brown. Then turn all the above into a small tosser with 
the onion, and simmer it covered twenty minutes. Strain 
it off for use, and wh£n cold take off the fat. 
A rich Gravy. 

Cut beef into thin slices, according to the quantity 
wanted ; Elice onions thin, and flour both ; fry them of * 
light pale brown, but don't on any account suffer them to 
get black: put them into a stew-pan, pour boiling watey 
on the browning in the fr} ing-pan, boil it up, and pour on 
the meat. Put to it a bunch of parsley, thyme, and savour^-, 
a small hit of marjoram, some niflce, berries of allspice, 
whole black peppers, a clove or two, and a bit of ham, or 
gammon of bacon. Simmer till you have extracted all the 
juices of the meat ; and be sure to skim the moment it boils, 
and often after. If for a hare, or stewed fish, anchovy 
should be added. 

Gravy for a Forol when there is no Meat to make it. 

Wash the feet nicely, and cut them and the neck small ; 
simmer them with a little bread browned, a slice of onion, 
a bit of parsley and thyme, some pepper and salt, and the 
liver and gizzard, in a quarter of a pint of water, till halt- 
wasted. Take out the liver, bruise it, and strain the li- 
quor to it. Then thicken it with (lour and butter, and 
add a tea-spoonful of mushroom-ketchup, nnd it will be 
very good. 

Veal Gravy. 

Make it as directed for brown gravy {pa^s^c 121); but 
leave out the spice, herbs, and flour. It should be drawn 
very slowly; and if for white dishes, don't let the meat 
brown. 

Gravy to ?)mlc Mutton eat like Venison. 

Pick a very stale woodcock or snipe, cut it to pieces 



GllAVIES. 123 

(but first take out the bag from the entrails), aad simmer 
wita as much uaseasoned meat-gravy as you will want. 
Strain it, and serve in the dish. 

Strong Fish-Gravy. 

Skin two or three eds, or some flounders ; gut and wash 
them very clean ; cut them into small pieces, and put in- 
to a saucepan. Cover them with water, and add a Litle 
crust of bread toasted brown, tAvo blades of mace, some 
whole pepper, sweet herbs, i p^ece of lemon-peel, an an- 
chovy or two, and a tea-spoonful of horse-radish. Cover 
close, and simmer ; add a bit of butter and flour, and boil 
ivilh the above. 

Savoury Jelly, to put over Cold Pies. 

Make it of a small bare knuckle of leg or shoulder of 
veal, or a piece of scrag of that, or mutton : or, if liie pie 
be of fowl or rabbit, the carcasses, necks, and lieads, added 
to any piece of meat, will be sufficient, observing to give 
consistence by cow-heel, or shanks of mutton. Put the 
meat, a slice of lean ham or bacon, a faggot of dilFerent 
herbs, two blades of mace, an onion or two, a small bit of 
lemon-peel, and a tea-spoonful of Jamaica pepper bruised, 
and the same of whole pepper, and three pint? of water, ia 
a stew-pot that shuts very close. A.s soon as it boils skim 
it well, and let it simmer veiy slowly till quite strong ; 
strain it, and when cold take off the fat with a spoon first, 
and then to remove every particle of grease, lay a cleaa 
p-ece of cap or blotting-paper on it. When cold, if not 
clear, boil it a few minutes with the whites of two eg^a 
(but don't add the sediment), and pour it through a nice 
siev^^e, with a napkin in it, which has been dipped in boiling 
water, to prevent waste. 

Jelly to cover cold Fish. 

Clean a Trout, and put it into three quarts of water, 
with a calfs foot, or cow-heel, a stick of horse radish, an 
onion, three blades of mace, some white pepper, a piece of 
lemon-peel, and a sood slice of lean gammon. Strew it uo 
til it Will jelly J strain it off; when cold remove every hit 
of fat : take it up from the sediment, and boil it with a 
glass of sherr}% the whites of four or five e"-gs, and a piece 
^ lemon. Boil without stirring; and after afewmi^utea 

1 2 



124 llOMESTIC COOKERY. 

set it by to stand half an hour, and strain it through a bag. 
or sieve, with a cloth in it. Cover the fish i* it \fheft 
coid. 



PART. V. 



SAUCES, &c. 

A very good Sauce, especially to hide the bad Colour of 
Fowls. 

CUT the livers, slices of lemon in dice, scalded pars« 
ley, and hard eggs : and salt, and mix them with butter ; 
boil them up, and pour over the fowls. 

This will do for roast rabbit. 
White Sauce for Fricassee of Fowls, Rahhifs, White Mea^ 
Fish, or Fegctables. 

It is seldom neeessary to buy meat for this favourite 
sauce, as the proportion of that flavour is but small. 
The water that has boiled fowls, veal, or rabbit; or a little 
broth, that may be in the house : or the feet and necks of 
ohicten, or raw or dressed veal, will suffice. Stew with 
a little of water any of these, with a bit of lemon-peel, some 
sliced onion, some white pepper-corns, a little pounded 
sXnace or nutmeg, and a tunch of sweet herbs, until the 
flavour be good, then strain it, and add a little good cream, 
a piece of butter, and a tittle flour; salt to your taste. A 
.squeeze of lemon may be added after tlie sauce is taken off 
the fire, shaking it! well. Xolk of egg is often used in fri- 
cassee,' but if you have any cream it is better; and the 
former is apt to curdle. 

Sauce for Wild Fowl. 

Siumicr a tea-cupful of port wine, the same quantity of 
good meat-gravy, a little shalot, a little pepper, salt, a 
jjrate of nutmeg, and a bit of mace, for ten minutes : put in 
a bit of butterj and flour, give it all one boil, and pour it 
through the birds. In general they are not stuffed as tame, 
but may be done so if liked. 

Another for the same, or for Ducks. 

Serve a rich grav^ m the dish : cut the breast intp slK 



SAUCED 125 

ces, but don't take them off; cut a lemon, and put pepper 
and salt on it ; then squeeze it on the breast, aud pour a 
spoontul of gravy over before you help. 

A71 excellent Sauce for boiled Turkey, 

Rub half a pound of butter with a tea-spoonful of flour, 
put to it a little water, melt it, and add near a quajter of a 
pint of thick cream, and half an ^anchovy chopped hue, 
not washed ; set it over the fire ; and as it boils up, add a 
large spoonful of real India eoy. If that does not give it a 
fine colour, put a little more. Turn it into the sauce-tu- 
reen, and put some ?alt and half a lemon: stir it well to 
hinder it from curdling. 

Sauce for Fowl of any sort. 

Boil some veal-gravy, pepper, salt, the juice of a sour 
orange and a lemon, and a quarter as much of port niuf 
as of gravy ; and pour it into the dish, or a boat. 
Sauce for cold Fowl, or Partridge. 

Rub down in a mortar the yolks of two eirgs boiled hard. 
an anchovy, two dessert-spoonfuls of oil, three of vinegar, 
a shalot, Cayenne if approved, and a tea-spoonful of mus- 
tard. All should be pounded before the oil is added. 
Then strain it. Shalot-vinegar, instead of shalot, eats wellv 

A very fine Mushroom Sauce for Fowls, &)- Rabbits. 

Wash and pick a pint of young mushrooms, and rub 
them with salt, to take off the tender skin. Put them into- 
a sauce-pan with a little salt, some nutmeg, a blade of mace, 
a pint of cream, and a good piece of butter rubbed in flour. 
Boil them up, and stir them till done; then pour it round 
the chickens, <S:c. Garnish with lemon. 

If you cannot get fresh muslirooms, use pickled ones 
done white, with a little mushroom-powder with the 
cream, Sec. 

Lemon White Sauce for boikd FopjIs. 

Put the peel of a small lemon, cut very thin, into a pint 
of sweet rich cream, with a sprig of thyme, acd ten white 
pepper-corns. Simmer gently till it tastes well of the le- 
mon : then strain it ; and thicken it with a quarter of a 
pound of butter, and a dessert-spoonful of flour i-ubbed in 
it. Boil it up : then pour the juice of the lemon strah'ed 
into it, stirring it welL Dish the chickens, aud then mix 
a little white gravy, quite hot, with the cream, but don't" 
hoil them together : add salt to your taste.- 



126 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

Liver Sauce, 
Chop boiled liver of ralbits or .owls, aad do it as direct- 
ed for lemoo^Huce f/?a^c 128), wiUi a very little pepper, 
and salt, and some parsley. 

Egg Sauce. 
Boil the eggs hard, and cut tlieuj into small pieces : then 
put them to melted butter. 

Onion Sauce. 
Peel the onions, and boil them tender: squeeze the 
water from them, then chop them, and add to tliem butter 
that has been melted rich and smooth, as will be hereafter 
directed, but with a little good milk instead of water : I oil 
it up once, and serve it for boiled rabbits, partridges, scrag 
or knuckle of veal, or roast mutton. A turnip boiled with 
t^ie onions makes them milder. 

Clear Skalot Sauce. 
Put a few chopped shalots into a little gravy boiled 
clear, and near half as much vinegar; season with pepper 
and salt : boil half an hour. 

To make Parsley Sauce when no Parsley-leaves are to be 
had. 
Tie up a little parsley-seed in a bit of clean muslin, and 
boil it ten minutes in some water. Use this water to melt 
the butter ; and throw into it a little boiled spinach min- 
ced, to look like parsley. 

Green Sauce, for green Geese, or Ducklings. 
Mix a quarter of a pint of sorrel-juice, a glass of white 
wine, and some scalded gooseberries. Add su^ar, and a 
bit of butter. Boil them up. 

Bread Sauce. 
Boil a large onion, cut into four, with some black pep- 
pers and milk, till the onion is quite a pap. Pour the 
milk strained on grated white stale bread, and cover it. 
In an hour put it into a saucepan, with a good piece ol but- 
ter mixed with a little flour : boil the whole up together, 
aud serve. 

Dutch Sauce for Meat or Fish. 

' Put six spoonfuls of water, and four of vinegar, into a 

saucepan warm, and thicken it witji the yolks of two r:;gs. 

Mike it quite hot, but do not boil it ; squeeze in the juice 

of half a lemon, and strain it tlirough a sieve* 



SAUCE6, 12X' 

Sauce Rohart,for Rumps or Steaks. 

Put a piece of butter, the size of an ei£:, into a saucepac, 
set it over the fire, and when brownin*^, throw in a hand- 
ful of sliced onions cut small : fry them brown, but don't 
let them burn ; add half a spoonful of flour, shake the 
onions in it, and give it another fiy : then put four spoon- 
fuls of gravy, and some pepper and salt, and boil it o:ently 
ten minutes; skim off the fat ; add a tea-spoonful of made 
mustard, a spoonful of vinegar, and the juice of half a le- 
mon ; boil it all, and pour it round the steaks. They 
should be of a fine yellow brown, and garnished with fried 
parsley and lemon. 

A Sauce^forhot or cold roast Beef. 

Grate, or scrape very fine, some horse-radis'j, a little 
made mustard, some pounded white sugar, and four large 
spoonfuls of vinegar. Serve in a saucer. 

Sauce for Fish Pies where cream is not ordered. 

Take equal quantities of white wine not sweet, vinegar, 
oyster-liquor, and mushroom-ketchup; boil them up T\"ith 
an anchovy ; strain, and pour it through a funnel into 
the pie after it is baked. 

Anotlier. — Chop an anchovy small, and boil it up with 
ihree spoonfuls of gravy, a quarter of a pint of cream, and 
a bit of butter and flour. 

Tojnata Sauce, for hot or cold Meats. 

Put tomatas, Avhen perfectly ripe, into an earthen jar ; 
and set it in an oven, when the bread is drawn, till they 
are quite soft; then separate the skin from the pulp ; and 
mix this with capsicum -vinegar, and a few cloves of garlic 
pounded, which must both be proportioned to the quantity 
of fruit. Add powdered ginger, and salt to your taste. 
(Some white-wine vinegar and Cayenne) may be used in- 
stead of capsicum vinegar. Keep the mixture in small 
wide-mouthed bottles, well corked, and in a dry coo| 
place. 

Apple Sauce, for Goose andronst Pork. 

Pare, core, and slice, some apples ; and put them in a 
atone jar, into a saucepan of water, or on a hot hearth. If 
on a hearth, let a spoonful or two of water be put in, to 
hinder them from burning. When they are done, bruise 
*hem ^o 5 u)aeh. and put to them a piece of butter the size 



i!^ DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

of a nutmeg, and a little brown sugar. Serve it in asauee- 
tureen. 

Old Currant-Sauce for Venison^ 

Boil an ounce of dried currants in half a pint of water a 
few minutes ; then add a small tea-cupful of bread-crumbs, 
six cloves, a glass of port Mine, and a bit of butter. Stii- 
it till the whole is smooth. 

Lemon Sauce, 

Cut thin slices of lemon into very small dice, and put 
them into melted butter ; give it one boll, and pour it over 
boiled fowls. 

Carrier Sauce for Mutton. 

Chop six tlialots fine ; and boil them up with a gill of 
gravy, a spoonful of vinegar, some pepper, and salt. Serve 
In a boat. 

Ham Sauce. 

When a ham is almost done with, pick all the meat clean 
from the bone, leaving out any rusty ptirt : beat the meat 
and the bone to a mash with a rolling-pin ; put it into a 
s:^uce-pan, with three spoonfuls of gravy ; set it over a slow 
fire ; and stir it all the time, or it will stick to the bottooi. 
When it has been on some time, put to it a small bundle of 
sweet herbs, some pepper, and half a pint of beef-gravy ; 
cover it up, and let it stew over a gentle fire. When it 
has a good ilavour of the herbs, strain off the gravy, A 
Jittle of this is an improvement to all gravies. 
A very fine Fish Sauce. 

Put into a very nice tin sauce-pan a pint of fine port 
wine, a gill of Malaga, half a pint of fine walnut-ketchup, 
twelve anchovies and the liquor that belongs to tliem, a <i;ill 
of walnut-pickle, the rind and juice of a large lemon, four 
or five shalots, some Cayenne to t'lste, three ounces of 
scraped liorse-radish, three blades of mace, and two tea- 
spoonfuls of made mustard ; boil it all pently, till the rav,- 
ness goes o;^; then put it into small bottles for use. Cork 
them very close, and seal the top. 

Jnothrr. — Chop twenty-four anchovies not Mashed, and 
ten shalots. and scrape three spoonfuls of horse-radish; 
which, witli ten blades of mace, tv.elve cloves, two sliced 
lenfons. hnlf a pint of anrhovy I'quor, a ouart of good rid^M', 
and a pint of water, boil to a quart : then ati'ain oflT; and 



SAUCES. 12ti 

when colli, add tiiiiee large spoonfuls of waiLiut-ketchup, 
aud put iuto small bottles wtil coi kiil. 

Fish Sauce mthmd BidUr. 

Simmer very geatiy a quarter ot a piat ot'vioegar and 
half a pint of water (wizicli m ist not be hard), vith an ODioii, 
half a handful of hoit>e-ra»iish, a;i;i t:;e foliowiu^ spices 
iighth biai^i^d; foii;- cloves tuo blades of ;}« ice, aad half 
a tea-spooniiil of b ai k p( Pjier. Wh.ii the on. on :s qu-te 
teiKli.r, . hop it bai ui wit tvo aiicliovies. and set tiie whole 
oq. the fir. to bod for a few minutes, witii a spoonful of 
ketchup. In the mean time, have ready and well beaten, 
the yolks 01 three fresh e;,gs; strain them, mix the liquor 
by de/irc^s with iheni, and when well mixed, set the sauce- 
pan over a gentle iire, kee.jin^^ a basin in one hand, into 
v.'hich toss the sauce to and fro, and shake the sauce-pan 
over t'iie fire, tliat the egiis iuay not curdle. Don't boil 
them, only let the sauce be hot euough to^ive it the thick- 
ness of melted butter. 

Another Fish Sauce. 

Thicken a quarter of a pound of butter with flour, and 
brown it; then put to it a pound of the best ancliovies cut 
small, six blades of pounded mace, ten cloves, forty berries 
of black pepper, and alUpicf, a few small OMious, a fao:^ot 
of sweet lierbs (namely, tavoury, thyme, basil, and knotted 
marjoram), and a little parsley and sliced horse-radish : 
on these pour half a pint of the best sherry, and a pint and 
a half of sirone; eravy. Simmer all gently for twenty 
minutes, then strain it through a sieve, and bottle it for usp : 
the way of using it is, to boil some of it in the butter while 
melting. 

A71 cxceUent snhstiiidcfor Caper Sauce. 

Boil sloM ly some parsley, to let it beconje a bad colour, 
cut but don't chop it fine ; put it to melted butter, T^itb a 
tea-spoonful of salt, and a dessert-spoonful of vinegar. Boil 
up and serve. 

Oi/ster Sauce. 

Save the liquor in openin^^ the oysters, and boil it 
with the beards, a lat of mace, aad lemon-peel. In the 
mean time throw the oysters into cold water, and drain it 
off. Strain the liquor, and put h iuto a saucepan witii them, 
and as much butter, mixed with a little milk, as will make 
sauce euough : but first nib a little flour with it. 



130 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

Set tliem ever the fire, and stir all the time ; and when 
the butter has boiled ounce or -wice, take them oil, and 
keep the saucepau near the fire, but not on it ; for if done 
too much, tne oysters will be hard. Squeeze a little le- 
mon-juice, and serve. 

If for company, a little cream is a o;reat improvement. 
Observe, the oysters will thia the sauce, so put butter 
accordingly. 

Lobster Sauce. 

Pound the spawn, and two ancliovies; pour on- them 
two spoonfuls of f;ravy ; strain all into some butter melted 
as will be hereafter directed : then put in the meat of the 
lobster, sive it all one boil, and add a squeeze of lemon. 

Another way. — Leave out the anchovies and gravy ; 
and do it as above, either with or without a little salt and 
ketchup, as you like. Many prefer the flavour of the 
lobster and salt only. 

Shrimp Sauce. 

If the shrimps, are not pickled at home, pour a little wa- 
ter over them to wash them ; put them to butter melted 
thick and smooth, give them one boil, and add the juice of 
a lemon. 

Anchovy Sauce. 

Chop one or two anchovies, without washing, put them 
to some flour and butter, and a little drop of water; stir it 
over the fire till it boils once or twice. When the ancho- 
vies are good, they will be dissolved; and the colour will 
be better than by the usual way. 

To melt Butter; which is rarely well done ^though a very 
Essential article. 

iVIix in tlie proportion of a tea-spoonful of flour to four 
ounces of the best butter, on a trencher. Put it into a 
amall sauce-pan, and two or three table-spooofuls of hot 
water, boil quick a minute, shaking it all the time. Milk 
used instead of water, requires rather less butter, and 
looks whiter. 

Vingaret^ for Cold Fowl, or Meat. 

Chop mint, parsley, and shalot, mix with salt, oil, and 
vinegar. Serve in a boat. 

Shalot Vinegar. 

Split six or eight shalots ; put them into a quart bottle. 



SAUCES. 131 

and fill it up with vinegar : «top it, and in a month it « ill 
be fit tor use. 

Camp Vinegar. 

Slice a large head of garlic ; and put it into a wide- 
mouthed bottle, with half an ounce of Cayenne, two tea- 
spoonfuls of real soy, two of walnut-ketchup, four ancho- 
ries chopped, a pint of vinegar, and enou«;h cochineal to 
give it the colour of lavender drops. Let it stand six 
weeks ; then strain oflf quite clear, and keep in small bot- 
tles sealed up. 

Sugar Vinegar, 

To every gallon of water put two pounds of the very 
coarsest sugar, boil and skim thoroughly, then put one 
quart of cold water for every gallon of hot. When cooL 
put it into a toast spread with yeast. Stir it nine days; 
then barrel, and set it ia a place where the sun will lie on 
it, with a bit of slate on the bung-hole. Make in March, 
it will be ready in six months. 

When sufficiently sour it may be bottled, or may be 
used from the cask with a wooden spigot and faucet. 
Gooseberry Vinegar. 

Boil spring water ; and when cold, put to eveiy three 
quarts, a quart of bruised gooseberries in a large tub. 
Let them remain sixty hours, stirring oftep ; then strain 
tlirough a Iiair bag, and to each gallon of liquor add a 
pound of tiie coarsest sugar. Put it into a barrel, and a 
toast and yeast ; cover the bung-hole with a bit of slate;, 
&;c. as above. The greater quantity of sugar and fruit, 
the stronger the vinegar. 

Cucianher Vinegar. 

Pare and slice ftfteea large cucumbers, and put them in 
a stone jar, with three pints of vinegar, four large onions 
. sliced, two or three shalots, a little garlic, two large spoon- 1: 
fuls of salt, three tea-spoonfuls of pepper, and lialf a tea- 
spoonful of Cayenne. After standing four days, give the 
whole a boil; when cold, strain, and liltre the liquor, 
through paper. Keep in small bottles, to add to salad, or 
oat with meat. 

Wine Vinegar. 

After making raisiii wi;ic, when the fniit has been strain- 
ed, lay it on a heap (o heat, then to eveiy hundred-height 
M 



132 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

put fifteen gallons of water — set the cask, and put yeasf, 
&c. 33 before. 

4-3 vinegar is so necessary an article in a family, and 
one on which so great a profit is made, a barrel or two 
might always be kept preparing, according to what suited. 
If the raisins of wine were ready, that kind might be 
made; if a great plenty of gooseberries made them cheap, 
that sort ; or if neither, then the sugar vinegar — so that the 
cask may not be left empty, and grow musty. 
To make Mustard. 

Mix the best flour of mustard by degrees, with boiling 
water, to a proper thickness, rubbing it perfectly smooth ; 
add a little salt, and keep it in a small jar close covered, 
and put only as much into the glass as will be used soon j 
Tsrhich should be wiped daily round the edges. 
Another way for immediate use. 

Mix the mustard with new milk by degrees, to be quite 
smooth, and add a little raw cream. It is much softer this 
way, is not bitter^ and will keep well. 

A tea-spoonful of sugar, to half a pint of mustard, is a 
great improvement, and softens it. 

Kitchen Pepper. 

Mix in the finest powder, one ounce of ginger ; of cinna- 
mon, black pepper, nutmeg, and Jamaica pepper, half an 
ounce each ; ten cloves, and six ounces of salt. Keep it 
in a bottle — it is an agreeable addition to any brown sau- 
ces or soups. 

Spice in powder, kept in small bottles close stopped, 
goes much farther than when used whole. It must be 
dried before pounded ; and should be done in quantities 
that may be wanted in three or ioiiY months. j)n utmrg need 
not be done — but the others siiordd be kept in separate 
^bottles, with a little label on each. 

To dry mushrooms. 

Wipe them clean ; and of the large take out tiie brown, 
and peel off the skin. Lay them on paj)er to dry in a cool 
ov* n, and keep them in paper bags, in a dry place. When 
used, simmer them in the gravy, and the} will swell to 
near their former size ; to simmer tliem in their own li- 
quor till it dr\ up into them, shakins: the pan, thrn diying 
on tin plates, is a good way, with spice or not, as above, 
before made into powder. 



SAUCES. V6\j 

Tie down with bladder ; and keep in a dry place, or iii 
paper. 

Mtishroom Fowder. 

Wash half a peck oflar^e mushrooms while quite frtjslij 
and free them from grit and dirt with flannel ; scrape out 
the black part clean, and do not use any that are worm- 
eaten ; put them into a stew-pan over the fire witiiout 
water, with two large onions, some cloves, a quarter of aa 
ounce of mace, and two spoonfuls of white pepper, all in 
powder; simmer and shake them till all the liquor be 
dried up,' but be careful they don't burn. Lay tiiem on 
cins or sieves in a slow oven till they are dry enou h to 
beat to powder : then put the p wder in small bottles, cork- 
ed, and tied closely, and keep in a dry place. 

A tea-spoonful will give a very fine flavour to any soup 
or .«:ravy, or any sauce ; and it is to be added just before 
serving, and one boil oiven to it after it is put in. 
To choose Anchovies. 

They are preserveil in barrels and kegs, with bay salt ; 
no other fish has the fine flavour of the anchovy. The 
best look red and mrllow, and the bones moist and oily ; 
the flesh should be high flavoured, the liquor reddish, and 
have a fine smell. 

Essnice of Anchovies. 

Take two dozen of anchovies, chop them, and without 
the bone, but with some of their own liquor strai'^ed, add 
th:^m to sixteen large spoonfuls of water ; boil gently till 
dissolved, which will be in a few minutes — when cokh 
strain and bottle it. 

To keep Anchovies n^hcn the liqu^yr dries. 

Pour on them beef-brine. 

To make small Trent taste like Anchovies. 
Salt them well, and let the salt drain from tliem. ^.: 
twenty-four hours wipe them dry, but don't wash them. 
Mix four ounces of common salt, an ounce if bay salt, an 
ounce of saltpetre, a quarter of an ounce of sai-pranel, and 
half a tea-spoonful of cochineal; all in the finest powder. 
Sprinkle it among three quarts of the fish, and pack them 
in two stone jars. Keep in a cold place, fastened down 
with a bladder. 

These are pleasant on bread and butter; but use the- 
best ioT sauce. 



134 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

Forcemeat, 
Whether in the form of stufTiug-balls, or for patties, makes 
a considerable part of ^ood cooking, by ihe flavour it 
imparts to whatsoever dish it is added to, if properly 
made. 

Exact rules for the quantity cannot easily be given ; 
but the following observations may be useful, and habit 
vyill scon give knowledge in mixing it to the taste. 

At many tables, where every thing else is well done, it 
IS common to find very bad stufTing. 

According to what it is wanted for, should be the selec- 
tion from the following list, observing that of the most pun- 
gent articles, least must be used. iNT o one flavour should 
predominate greatly : yet, if several dishes be served t!]£ 
same day, there should be a marked variety in the taste of 
the forcemeat, as well as of the gravies. It should be con- 
sistent enough to cut with a knife, but not dry and iieavy. 
Forcemeat Ingredients. 
Cold fowl or veal. Oysters. 

Scraped ham. Anchovy., 

Fat bacon. Taragon. 

Beef-suet Savory. 

Crumbs of bread^. Penny-royal. 

Parsley. Knotted marjoram^. 

White pepper. Thyme. 

Salt, Basil. 

Nutmeg. Yolks of hard eggs. 

Volk and while of eggs Cayenne, 

well beaten, to bind Garlick. 

the mixture. Shalot. 

Chives. 

.Jamaica pepper, in fine 

powder, or 2 or 3 cloves. 

The firfii column coaiaius the articles of wliich the 

forcemeat may be made, without any striking flavour; and 

10 those may be added some of the different ingredients of 

the second column, to very the taste. 

Forcemeat, to force Fowls or Meat. 
Shred a little ham, or ganunon, some cold veal or fowl, 
^ome beef-feuct; a small quantity of onion, some parsley, 
\ ery little lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, or pounded mace, and 
ither white ])epper or Cayenne, and bread crumb«. 



SAUCES. 135 

FouQd it in a mortar, aud biiid it iv ith one or two eggs 
beaten aud strained. For forcemeat patties, the mixture 
as above. 

For cold Savoury PUs, 

The same ; only snMstitutmg iat, or uacon, for suet. The 
livers (il the pie beofrab.;it or fowls), mixed with fat and 
ieaii of pork, instead of ba.ou, and seasoned as above, is 
excellent. 

Very fine Forcemeat halls, for Fish SoupSy 
or Fish Sletved, on miigredays. 

Beat the fit sh aud soft {}arts of a middling lobster, half 
ail aucliov) , a large piece ol boiled celery, the yolk of a 
hard egg, a little Cayenne, mace, salt, and white pepper, 
with two table-spootjlals of bre id crumbs, one ditto of oys- 
ter liquor, two ounces of butter warmed, and two eggs long 
beaten : make into balls, aud fry of a fine brown in butter. 
Forcemeat for Turtle. 

A pound of fine fresli suet, one ounce of ready-drrssed 
veal or chicken,, chopped fine, crumbs of bread, a little 
ihalot or onion, salt, white pepper, nutmeg, mace, penny- 
royal, parsley, and lemon thyme finely shred ; beat as 
raaiy fresh eggs, yolks and whites separately, as will make 
the above ingredients into a moist paste ; roll into small 
balls, and boil them in fresh lard, putting them in just as 
it boils up. When of a light brown, take them out, and 
drain diem before the fire. If the suet be moist or stale, a 
■:?reat many more eggs will be necessary-. 

Balis made this way are remarkably light ; but being 
greasy, some people prefer them with less suet and eggs. 
Littl: Eggs for real or mock TuHle, 

Bftat three hard yolks of eggs in a mortar, and make 
into a paste with the yolk of a raw one, roll it into small 
balls, and throw them into boiling water for two minutes to 
harden. 

BrdTvtiing to colour and flavour made dishes. 

Beat to powder four ounces of double refined sugar, 
put it into a very nice iron frying-pan, with one ounce of 
fine fresh butter, mix it well over a clea* fire, and when it 
begins to froth, hold it up higher ; when of a very fine dark 
brown, pour in a small quantity of a pint of port and the 
whole by very slow (kgrees, stirring ail the. time. Su^. 
M2 



136 DOMESTIC COOK Ell ^, 

to the above half an ounce of Jamaica aud tlte same of 
birtck t>cpper, ^iix cloves of shalots peeled, three l3lades Oi 
niuce bruised, three spoonfuls of mushroom, and the same 
oi waltjul kvtchup, some salt, and the finely-pared rind of 
a lemon ; boil getitly fifteen minutes, pour it into a basin 
till cold, take oil the scum, and bottle for use. 

Rice Edgings for a Curtnc, or Fricassee. 
After so.skiug and picking fine Carolina rice, boil it in 
^ater, and a little salt, until tender, but not to a mash ; 
drain, and put it round the inner ed«e of the dish, to the 
he xht of two inches; smooth it with the back of a spoon, 
and wash it over with the yolk of ega:, and put it into the 
oven for three or four minutes, then serv^e the meat in the 
middle. 



PART VI. 



PIES, PUDDINGS, AND PASTRY. 

SAVOURY TIES. 

(Fntit Piesrvill he placed imdcr the head pastry. ^^ 
Observations on Savouri/ Pics. 

THERE are few articles of cookery more generally 
liked than relishing pies, if properly made ; and they may 
be made of so oTcat a variety of linngs. Some archest 
Craten when cold, and in that case, tlierc should be no suet 
put into the forcemeat that is used with them. If the pie 
is either made of meat that will take more dicssing, to 
make it extremely tender, than tlie baking of the crust will 
allow ; or if it is to be served in an eartiien pic-forra ; ol> 
^ers'e the following pre})aration : 

Take three pounds of the veiny piece of beef (for in- 
>lance) that has fat and lean; Avashit; and seaSon it with 
&alt, pepper, mace, and allspice, in fine powder, nibbing 
tiiem well in. Set it by tlio side of a slow fire, in a stew- 
pot that will iust hold it; })ut to it a piece of butter, of 
about the weifiht of two ounces, and tovcv it quite close; 
let it just simmer in its own steam till it begins to shrink, 
TV hen it T3 cold, add moro seasoning, forcemeat, and eggs : 



SAVOURY PIES. 137 

aiid it it is ia a dish, put some gravy to it before bakiog ; 
but if it is only in crust, don't put the gravy till alter it is 
cold and in jelly, as has been described in page 123. Force- 
meat may be put both under and over the meat, if prefer- 
red to balls. 

Eel Pie. 

Cut the eels in lengths of two or three inches, season 
with pepper and salt, and place iu the dish, with some bit> 
of butter, and a little water ; and cover it with paste. 
Ccd Pie. 

Take a piece of the middle of a small cod, and salt it 
well one night : next day Avash it : season with pepper, 
salt, and a very little nutmeg, mixed ; place in a dish, and 
put some butter on it, and a little good broth of any kind 
into the dish. 

Cover it with a crust ; and when done, add a sauce of a 
spoonful of broth, a quarter of a pint of cream, a little flour 
and butter, a grate of lemon and nutmeg, and give it one 
boil. Oysters may be added. 

Mackarel will do well, but do net salt them till used. 

Parsley picked and put in, may be used instead of oys_ 
ters. 

Sole Pie. 

Split some soles from the bone, and cut the lins close ; 
^ason with a mixture of salt, pepper, a little uutmetj and 
pounded mace, and put them in layers, with oysters. They 
eat excellently. ' A pair of middling-sized ones will do, 
and half a hundred of oysters. Put in the dish the oys- 
ter-liquor, two or three spoonfuls of broth, and some butter. 
\\ hen the pie comes home, pour in a cupful of thick cream. 
Shrimp Pic, excellent. 

Pick a quart of shrimps ; if they are veiy salt, season 
them with only mac€ and a clove or two. Mince two or 
three anchovies ; mix these with the spice, and then sea- 
son the shrimps. Put some butter at the bottom of the 
dish, and over the shrimps, with a glass of sharp white 
wine. The paste must be light and thin. They do not 
take long baking. 

Lobster Pie. 

Boil two lobsters, or three small, take out the tails, cut 
theiD ia two, take out the gut, cut each ia four pieces aii^. 



I6i liOMKHklC COOKERY. 

lay in a amall dish, put in tbem the meat of the claws and 
that jou have picked out ot tne bony : pick ott die iuny 
parts from the latttr, and take out the idniy ; the spavva 
beat in a mortar; likewise all the shellb ; s^ t them oa to 
stew with ffome water, two o tijree spoontuis of vine^ar^ 
prpper, salt, and some pounded mace ; a large piece of 
outter, rolled in flour, must be added when the goodness 
of t! e shells s obtained : give a boil or two, and pour iut© 
the dish strai ;ed ; strew some crumbs, and put a paste over 
all; bake slow!}, but onl} till th: paste be done. 
A remurkaoLy fin(' Fish t-ie. 

Boil two pounds ot smali eel*; having cut the fins quite 
close, pick the iJcsh olf, and throw the boties into the ii- 
quor, with a little mace, pejiper, salt, and a slict of oiiion: 
bod till quite rich, and strain it. Make forctmeat of tie 
flesh, an anchovy, parsley, lemon-peel, oalt, pepper, and 
crumbs, and four ounces of butter warmed, an<i lay it at the 
bottom of the dish. Take the flesh of soles, small cod, or 
dressed turt ot, and lay them on the forcemeat, davin^ rub- 
feed it with salt antl pepper : pour the gravy over, and bake. 

Observ^e to take off" the skin and fins, if cod or soles. 
Pilchard and Leek Pie. 

Clean and skin the white part of some large leeks : scald 
\\ milk and water, and put them in layers into a dish, and 
oetween the layers, two or three saltfd pilchards which 
have been soaked for some hours the day before. Cover 
the whole with a ^ood plain crust. When the pie is takea 
out of the ov6n, lift up the side crust with a knife, and 
impty out all the liquor ; then pour in a half a pint of 
scalded cream. 

Beef-steak Pie. 

Prepare the steaks as in page 56, and when seasoned 
and rolled with fat in each, put them in a dish with puff 
paste round the ed^es ; put a little water in the dish, and 
cover it with a good crust. 

Veal Pie, 

Take some of the middle, or scrag, of a small neck ; 
season it; and either put to it, or not, a few slices of lean 
bacon or ham. If it is wanted of a high relish, add mace, 
Cayenne, and nutmeg, to the salt and pepper; aid also 
1[%rcemeat and eggs; and if you choose, add truffles, mor- 



SAVOURY I'ltS, ' 130 

els, mushrooms, svreetbreads cut into small bits. Have a 
ricli ^ravy ready, to pour ia after bakiuo. — It will be very- 
good witliout any of the latter additions. 
A rich Veal Pie. 

Cut steaks from a neck or breast of veal, season them 
Avitii pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a very little clove in pow- 
der. Slice two sweetbreads, and season them in the same 
manner. Lay a puiT paste on the ledge of the dish ; tljen 
put the meat, yolks of hard eggs, the sweetbreads, and 
some oysters, up to the top of the dish. Lay over the 
whole some very thin slices of ham, and fill up the dish 
with water; cover; and when it is taken out of the oven, 
pour in at the top, through a funnel, a few spoonfuls of 
good veal -gravy, and some cream to fill up : but first 
boil it up with a tea-spoonful of flour. Truffles, &c. if 
approved. 

Feal Cor Chicken) and Parsley Pie. 

Cut some slices from the leg or neck of veal; if the leg, 
from about the knuckle. Season them with salt; scald 
some parsley that is picked from the stems, and squf^eze 
it dry : cut it a little, and lay it at the bottom of the dish ; 
then put the meat, and so on, in layers. Fill the dish 
with new milk, but not so high as to touch the crust. Co- 
ver it ; and when baked, pour out a little of ihe milk, and 
put in half a pint of good scalded cream. 

Chicken may be cut up, skinned, and made in the same 
way. 

Veal olive Pic. 

Make the olives as directed in page 69: put them 
round and round the dish, making the middle highest. 
Fill it almost up with water, and cover it. Add gravy, 
cream, and flour. 

Calfs-head Pie. 

Stew a knuckle of veal till fit for eating, with tw o onions 
a few isinglass-shavings, a bunch of herbs, a blade of mace, 
and a i^w pepper-coros, in three pints of water. Keep 
the broth for the pie. Take off a bit of the meat for the 
balls, and let the other be eaten, but simmer the bones in 
the broth till it is very good. Half-boil the head, and cut 
it in square bits ; put a layer of ham at the bottom ; then 
some head, first fat then lean, with balls and hard eggs 



140 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

cut in half, and so on till the dish be full : but be particu- 
larly careful not to place the pieces close, or the pie will 
be too solid, and there will be no space for the jelly. The 
meat must be fii-st pretty well seasoned with pepper and 
salt, and a scrape or two of nutmeg. Put a little water 
and a little gravy into the dish, and cover it with a tol- 
erably thick crust; bake it in a slow oven, and when 
done, pour into it as much gravy as it can possibly hold, 
and do not cut it till perfectly cold ; in doing which ob- 
serve to use a very sharp knife, and first cut out a large 
bit, going dow n to the bottom of the dish ; and when done 
thus, thinner slices can be cut ; the different colours, and 
the clear jelly, have a beautiful marbled appearance. 

A small pie may be made to eat hot, which with high 
seasoning, oysters, mushrooms, truffles, morels, &c. has a 
very good appearance. 

The cold pie will keep manj days. Slices make a 
pretty side-dish. 

Instead of isinglass, use a calf's foot, or a cow-heel, if 
the jelly is not likely to be stiff enourh. 

The pickled tongues of former calves'-heads may be cut 
in, to vary the colour, instead of, or besides ham. 
Excellent Pork Pies, to eat cold. 

Raise common boiled crust into either a round or oval 
form, as you choose ; have ready the trimming and small 
bits of povk cut off when a hog is killed ; and if these are 
not enough, take the meat off a sweet bone Beat it well 
with a rolliiig-pin ; season with pepper and salt, and keep 
{he fat and lean separate. Put it in layers, quite close up 
io tlie top ; lay on the lid : cut the edge smooth round, 
and pinch it; bake in a slow soaking oven, as the meat is 
very solid. Directions for raisins the crust will be given 
hereafter. The pork ma} be put into a common dish, Avith 
a very plain crust ; and he quite as good. Observe to 
put no bone or water into povV pie ; the outside of the 
pieces will be hard, unless they are cut small and pressed 
close. 

Mutton Pie. 

Cut steaks from a loin or neck of mutton that has hunr ; 
beat them, and remove some of the fnt. Season with salt. 
pepper, and a little onion ; put a little water at the bottoir. 



SAVOURY PIES. 141 

oi the dish, and a little paste oa the edire ; then cover with 
a mo :eiatel;j thick paste. Or raise small pies, and break- 
ing each bone in two to shorten it, season, and cover it 
over, pinching tlie edge. When they come oat, pour into 
each a spoonful of gravy made of a bit of mutton. 
Squab Pie. 

Cut apples as for other pies, and lay them in rows with 
mutton chops ; shred onion, and sprinkle it among them, 
and also some sugar. 

Lamb Pic. 

Make it of the loin, neck, or breast ; the breast of house 
lamb IS one of the most delicate things that can be eaten. 
It should be very lightly seasoned with pepper and salt ; 
the bone taken out, but not the gristles ; and a small quan- 
tity of jelly gravy be put in hot ; but the pie should not be 
cut till.cold. Put two spoonfuls of water before baking. 

Grass-lamb makes an excellent pie, and may either be 
boned or not, but not to bone it is perhaps the best. Season 
with only pepper and salt; put two spoonfuls of water be- 
fore baking, and as much grav^' when it comes from the 
oven. 

Note. — Meat pies being fat, it is best to let out the gravy 
on one side, and put it in again by a funnel, at tlie centre, 
and a little may be added. 

Chicken Pie. 

Cut up two young fowls ; season with white pepper, 
salt, a little mace, and nutmeg, all in the finest powder; 
likewise a little Cayenne. Put the chicken, slices of 
ham, or fresh gammon of bacon, forcemeat balls, and hard 
eggs, by turns, in layers. If it is to be baked in a dish, 
put a little water ; but none if in a raised crust. By the 
time it returns from the oven, have ready a gravy of 
knuckle of veal, or a bit of the scrag, with some shank- 
bones of mutton, seasoned with herbs, onions, mace, and 
white pepper. If it is to be eattn hot. you may add 
truffles, morels, mushrooms, &:c. but not if to be eaten cold. 
If it is made in a dish, put as much gravy as will fill it ; but 
in raised ciaist, the sravy must be nicely strained, and then 
put in cold as jelly. To make the jelly dear, you may 
give it a * oil with the m bites of two eg«js, after taking away 
the meat, and then run it through a fine lawn sieve. 



142 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

Rabbits, if young and in flesh, do as well : their Ic^s 
should be cut short; and the breast-bones must not go in, 
but will help to make the gravy. 

Green-goose Pie. 

Bone two young p^reen-geese, of a good size ; but first 
take away every plu-r, and singe them nicely. Wash 
them clean ; and season them hi^h with salt, pepper, mace, 
and allspice. Put one inside the otlier ; and press them as 
close as you can, drawin<^ the legs inwards. Put a good 
deal of butter over them, and bake them either with or 
without crust ; if the latter, a cover to the dish must fit 
close to keep in the steam. It will keep long. 
Duck Pie. 

Bone a full-grown young duck and a fowl: wash them 
and season with pepper and salt, and a small proportion of 
raace and allspice, in the finest powder. Put the fowl 
within the duck, and in the former a calfstongue pick- 
led red, boiled very tender and peeled. Press the whole 
close i the skins of the legs should be drawn inwards, that 
the body of the fowls may be quite smooth. If approved, 
the space between the sides of the cmst may be filled with 
a fine forcemeat, made according to the second receipt 
given for making forcemeat m page 135. Bake it in a 
slow oven, either in a raised crust, or pie-dish, with a 
thick crust, ornamented. 

Large pies are made as above ; but with a goose out- 
wards, then a turkey, a duck next, then a fowl ; and either 
tongue, small birds, «r forcemeat, in the middle. 
Giblft Pic. 

After veiy nieeiy cleaning goose or duck giblets, stew 
rhem with a small quantity of water, onion, black pepper, 
and a buncli of sweet herbs, till nearly done. Let them 
grow cold ; and if not enough to fill the dish, lay a beef, 
veal, or two or three mutton steaks, at bottom. Put the 
liquor of the st'^w to bake with the above ; and w hen the 
pie is baked, pour into it a large tea-cupful of cream. 

Sliced potatoes added to it, eat extremely well. 
Pigeon Pie. 

Rub the pigeons with pepper and salt, inside and out ; 
in the latter put a bit of but'er, and, if approved, some 
parsley chopped with the livers, and a little of the same 



sAVOcny pits. 143 

seasoning. Lay a beef-steak at the bottom of the dish, and 
ihe birds oq it; betweeu every two, a hard egg. Put a 
eup of water ia the dish ; and if you have any ham in the 
house, lay a bit on each pigeon : it is a great improvement 
to tlie flavour. 

Observe, when ham is cut for gravy or pies, to take the 
under part rather than the prime. 

Season the gizzards, and two joints of the wings, and put 
them in the centre of the pie ; and over them, in a hole 
made in the crust, three feet nicely cleaned, to show Avliat 
pie it is. 

Partridge Pie in a Dish. 

Pick and singe four partridges ; cut off the legs at the 
knee ; season with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, thyme, 
and mushrooms. Lay a veal-steak, and a slice of ham at 
the bottom of the dish ; put the partridges in, and half a 
pint of good broth. Put puff-paste on the ledge of the dish, 
and cover with the same ; brash it over with egg, and bake 
an hour. 

Hare Pie, to cat cold. 

Season tlie hare after it is cut up ; and bake it, with eggs 
and forcemeat, in a raised crust or dish. Wheu it is to be 
served, cut off the lid, and cover it v;ith jelly gravy, as in 
page 123. 

A French Pie. 

Lay a puff-paste round on the ledge of the dish : and 
put in either veal in slices, or rabbits or chickens jointed; 
with forcemeat balls, sv. eetbreads cut in pieces, artichoke 
bottoms, and a few truffles. 

Vegetable Pie. 

Scald and blanch some broad beans; cut young car- 
rots, turnips, artichoke-bottoms, mushrooms, peas, onions, 
lettuce, parsley, celery, or any of them you have ; make 
the whole into a nice stew, with some good veal-gravy. 
Bake a crust over a dish, with a little lining round the 
edsje, and a cup turned up to keep it from, sinking. When 
baited, open the lid, and pour in the stew. 
Parsley Pie. 

Lay a fowl, or a few bones of the scrag of veal, sea- 
soned, into a dish ; scald a colander-full of pickled parsley 
N 



144 D03IEST1C COOKEKV. 

in milk : season it ; and add it to the fowl or meat, witii a 
tea-cupful of any sort of good broth, or weak gravy. When 
it is baked, pour into it a quarter of a pint of cream scald- 
ed, with the size of a walnut of butter, and a bit of flour. 
Shake it round, to mix with the gravy already in. 

Lettuces, white mustard leaves, or spinach, may be add- 
ed to the parsley, and scalded before put in. 
Turnip Pie. 

Season mutton chops with salt and pepper, reserving the 
ends of the neck-bones to lay over the turnips, w hich must 
be cut into small dice, and put on the steaks. 

Put two or three good spoonfuls of milk in. You may 
add sliced onion. Cover with a crust. 
Potatoe Pie. 

Skin some potatoes, and cut tliera into slices : season 
them ; and also some mutton, beef, pork, or veal. Put 
layers of them and of the meat. 

An Herb Pie. 

Pick two handfuls of parsley from the stems, half the 
quantity of spinach, two lettuces, some nuistard and cres- 
ses, a feAV^ leaves of borage, and white beet-leaves; wash, 
and boil them a little ; tlien drain, and press out the water : 
cut them small ; mix, and lay them in a dish, sprinkled 
with some salt. Mix a batter of flour, two eggs well beat- 
en, a pint of cream, and half a pint of milk, and pour it on 
the herbs ; cover with a good crust, and bake. 

Raised Crust for Meat Pies, or Fowls, &c. 

Boil water with a little fine lard, and an equal quantity 
of fresh dripping or of butter, but not nnich of either. 
Wliile hot, mix this with as much (lour as you will war»t, 
making the paste as stifl'as you can, to be smooth, w liicli 
you will make it by good kneading and beating it with tlio 
rolling-pin. When quite smooth, put in a lump into a cloth, 
or under a pan, to soak till near cold. 

Those who have not a good hand at raising crust may do 
thus : Roll tlie paste of a proper thickness, and cut out the 
top and bottom of the pie, tlien a long piece for the sides. 
Cement the bottom to tlie sides with egg, bringing the form- 
er rather fartlier out, and pinching both together : put rgg 
between the edges of the paste, to make it adhere at tlie 
sides. Fill your pie, and put on the cover, and pinch i( 



-J 



PUDDINGS. 145 

and liie side crust together. The same mode of uniting the 
paste is to be observed, if the sides are pressed into a tin 
lorm, in which the paste must be baked, alter it sliaH be fill- 
ed and covered; but in the latter case, the tin should be 
buttered, and carefully taken off when done enough; and 
as the form usually makes the sides of a lighter colour thaa 
is proper, the paste should be put into the oven again for a 
nuarter of an hour. With a featiier, put egg over at first. 

PUDDINGS, <^-C. 

Observations on making Puddings and Pancakes. 

The outside of a boiled pudding often tastes disagree- 
ably ; v/hich arises from the cloth not being nicely washed, 
and kept in a dry place. It should be dipped in boiling 
uater, squeezed dry, and floured when to be used. 

If bread, it should be tied loose : if batter, tight over. 

The water should boil quick when the pudding is put 
in ; and it should be moved about for a minute, lest the in- 
gredients should not mix. 

Batter-pudding should be strained through a coarse 
sieve, when all is mixed. In others, the eggs separately. 

The pans and basins must be always buttered. 

A pan of cold water filwidd be ready, and the pudding 
dipt in as soon as it comes out of the pot, and then it will not 
adhere to the cloth. 

Very good puddings may be made without eggs : but 
they must have as little milk as ^rill mix, and must boil 
three or four hours. A few spoonfuls of fresh small beer, 
or one of yeast, will answer instead of eggs. 

Or snow is an excellent substitute for eggs, either ia 
puddings or pancakes. Two large spoonfuls will supply 
the place of one egg, and ^he article it is used in will be 
equally good. This is a useful piece of information, es- 
pecially as snow falls at the season when eggs are dear- 
est. Fresh small beer, or bottled malt liquors, likewise 
serve instead of esrgs. The snow may be taken up from 
any clean spot before it is wanted, and will not lose its 
virtue : though the sooner it is used the better. 

Note. — The yolks and whites beaten long and separately 
make the article they are put into much lighter. 
Almond Pu ddings. 

Beat half a pound of sweet and a <ew bitter almonds 
with a spoonful of water : then mix fonr ouRces of buttei^ 



146 I>03IESriC COOKERS. 

four eggs, two spoonfuls of cream, warm with thf buttei . 
one of brandy, a little Dutmeg, and sugar to taste. Buttei 
some cups, half fill, acd bake the puddings. 

SeiTe yi'ith butter, wine, and sugar. 

Baked Almond Pudding, 

Beat fine four ounces of almonds, four or five bitter dit- 
to, with a little wine, yolks of six eggs, ptel of two lemons 
i^rated, six ounces of butter, near a quart of cream, and 
juice of one lemon. When well mixed, bake it half an hour, 
with paste round the dish. 

Small Almond Puddings. 

Pound eight ounces of almonds, and a few bitter, with a 
spoonful of water; mix with four ounces of butter warm- 
ed, four yolks and two whites of eggs, sugar to taste, two 
spoonfuls of cream, and one of brand)- ; mix well, and bake 
in little cups buttered. Serve with pudding-sauce. 
Sago Pudding. 

Boil a pint and a half of new milk, with four spoonfuls 
uf sago nicely washed and picked, lemon-peel, cinnamon, 
and nutmeg ; sweeten to taste ; then mix four eggs put a 
paste round the dish, and bake slowly. 

is read and EuHcr rimdingt 

Slice bread spread with butter, and lay it in a dish with 
currants between each layer ; and sliced citron, orange, 
or lemon, if to be very nice. Pour over an unboiled cus- 
tard of milk two or three eggs, a fi^w pimentos, and a very 
little ratafia, two hours at least before it is to be baked ; 
and lade it over to soak the bread. 

A Paste round the edge makes all puddings look bel- 
ter, but is not necessary. 

Orange Pudding, 

Grate the rind of a Seville orange : put to it six ounces 
of fresh butter, six or eight ounces of lump-sugar pound- 
ed : beat them all in a marble mortar, and add as you do it 
the whole of eight eggs well beaten and strained ; scrape 
a raw apple, and mix with the rest; put a paste at the bot- 
tom and sides of the dish, and over the orange mixture put 
cross bars of paste. Half an hour will bake it. 

Another. Mix of orange paste two full spoons, with 
six eggs, four of sugar, four ounces of liutter warm, and 
put into a shallow di^h with a paste lining, Baketwcntv 
TninutcF. 



PUDDINGS, 147 

Another. Rather more than two table spoonfuls of the 
orauge paste, mixed with six eggs, four ouaces of sugar, 
and four ounces of butter, melted, will make a good sized 
pudding with a paste at the bottom of the dish. Bake 
twenty minutes. 

An excellent Lemon Pudding. 

Beat the yolks of four eggs ; add four ounces of -white 
sugar, the rind of a lemon being rubbed with some lumps of 
it to take the essence ; then peel, and beat it in a mortar 
with the juice of a large lemon, and mix all w ith four or 
five ounces of butter warmed. Put a crust into a shallow- 
dish, nick the edges, and put the above into it. When 
served, turn the pudding out of the dish. 

A ven-yfinc Amber Pudding. 

Put a pound of butter into a sauce-pan with three 
quarters of a pound of loaf-sugar finely powdered ; melt 
the butter, and mix well with it ; then add the yolks of 
fifteen eggs well beaten, and as much fresh candied orange 
as will add colour and flavour to it, being first beaten to 
a fine paste. Line the dish with paste for turning out ; 
and when filled with the above, lay a crust over, as you 
would a pie, and bake in a slow oven. 

It is as good cold as hot. 

Baked Apple- Pudding. 

Pare and quarter four large apples ; boil them tender, 
with the rind of a lemon, in so little water that, when done, 
none may remain : beat them quite fine in a mortar ; add 
the crumb of a small roll, four ounces of butter melted, the 
yolks of five and whites of three eggs, juice of half a lemon 
and sugar to taste ; beat altogether, and lay it in a dish 
with paste to turn out. 

Oatmeal Pudding. 

Pour a quart of boiling milk over a pint of the best 
Jine oatmeal : let it soak all night : i?ext day beat two eggs, 
and mix a little salt ; butter a basin that will just hold it : 
cover it tight with a floured clotli, and boil it an hour and 
a half. Eat it with cold butter and salt. 

When cold, slice and toast it, and eat it as oat cake 
buttered. 

Dutch Pudding, &r Monster. 

Melt one pound of butter in half a pint of milk; mis 
N 2 



148 DOMESTIC COOKERT. 

it into two pounds of flour, eight eggs, four spoonfuls of 
yeast ; add one pound of currants, and a quarter of a pound 
of sugar beaten and sifted. 

This is a very good pudding hot ; and equally so as 
a cake when cold. If tor the latter, caraways may be 
used instead of currants. An hour will bate it in a quick 
oven. 

A Rice Pudding. 

Soa:k four ounces of rice in warm water half an hour ; 
drain the latter from it, and throw it into a stew-pan, with 
half a pint of milk, half a stick of cinnamon, and simmer 
rill tender. When cold, add four whole eggs well beaten, 
two ounces of butter melted in a tea-cupful of cream : and 
put three ounces of sugar, a quarter of a nutmeg, and a 
good piece of lemon-peel. 

Put a light pufF-paste into a mould or dish, of grated 
tops and bottoms, and bake in a quick oven. 
Light Puddings or Ptiffs. 

Melt three ounces of butter in a pint of cream ; let i^ 
stand till nearly cold : then mix two ounces of fine flour 
and two ounces of sugar, four yolks and two whites of eggs, 
und a little rose or orange-flower w ater. Bake in little 
cupsbuttered, half an hour. They should be served >he 
moment they are done, and only when going to be eaten, 
or they will not be light. 

Turn out of the cups, and serve with idiite wine and 
^ugar. 

Little Bread Puddings. 

^teep the crumb of half a small loaf grated, in about a 
i,)int of warm milk; when soaked, beat six eggs, whites 
and yolks, and mix with the bread, and two ounces of but- 
ter warmed, sugar, orange-floiFer water, a spoonful of bran- 
dy, a little nutmeg, and a tea-cupful of cream. Beat all 
well, and bake in tea-cups buttered. If currants are cho- 
sen, a quarter of a pound is sufllcient : if not, they are 
good without: or you may put orange or lemon-candy. 
Serve with pudding sauce. 

Puddings in haste. 

Shred suet, and put with grated bre&d, a few currants, 
the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two, some graled 
lemon-peel and ginger. Mix ; and make into little ball? 
about the size and shape of an egg, with i little flour. 



PUDDINGS. 149 

Have ready a skillet of boiling water, and throw them 
in. 1 wenty minutes will boil them ; but they will rise 
to tiie top when done. 

Pudding-sauce. 

Princeton College Fuddings. 

Grate the crumb of a small loaf, shred suet eight 
ounces, and mix with eight ounces of currants, one of 
citron mixed fine, one of orange, a handful of sugar, half a 
nutmeg, three eggs beaten, yolk and white separately. 
Mix, and make into the size and sliape of a goose egg. 
Put half a pound of butter into a fiy ing-pan ; and when 
jnelted and quite hot, stew them gently in it over a stove; 
turn them two or three times till of a fine light brown. Mix 
a glass of brandy with the batter. 

Serve with pudding-sauce. 

Boiled Bread Pudding. 

<jrate white bread ; pour boiling milk over it, and cover 
close. When soaked an hour or two, beat it fine, and mix 
with it two or three eggs well beaten. 

Put it into a basin that will just hold it ; tie a floured 
cloth over it, and put it into boiling water. Send it up 
with melted butter poured over. 

It may be eaten with salt or sugar. 

Prunes, or French plums, make a fine pudding, instead 
»f raisins, either with suet or bread pudding. 

Another and richer. — On half a pint of crumbs of bread, 
pour half a pint of scalding milk ; cover for an hour. Beat 
tip four eggs, and when strained, add to the bread, with a 
tea-spoonful of flour, an ounce of butter, two ounces of su- 
gar, half a pound of currants, an ounce of almonds beaten, 
with orange-flower water, half an ounce of orange, ditto le- 
mon, ditto citron. Butter a basin that will exactly hold it, 
flour the cloth and tie tight over, and boil one hour. 
Brown Bread Pudding. 

Half a pound of stale brown bread grated, ditto of cur- 
rants, ditto of shred suet, sugar and nutmeg ; mix with four 
egos, a spoonful of brandy, and two spoonfuls of cream ; 
l5oil in a cloth or basin that exactly holds it, three or lour 
hours. 

Baked Indian Pudding. 

Scald three pints of new milk, stir into it oae pint of fine 
Indian meal; when cool, add salt, seven eggs, half a pound 



150 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

of stoned raisins, four ounces of butter, fine white sugar 
and spice to please, and bake in a tin pan or glazed dish, 
one hour and a half. 

Boiled Indian Pudding. 

Take a pint of meal, add salt, wet it with one quart of 
new milk, sugar and spice ; put it into a strong cloth and 
boil five hours. 

Eve's Puddings 

Grate three quarters of a pound of bread ; mix it with 
the same quantity of shred suet, the same of apples, and al- 
so of currants ; mix with these the whole of four eggs, and 
the rind of half a lemon shred fine. Put it into a shape ; 
boil three hours; and serve with pudding-sauce, the juice 
of half a lemon, and a little nutmeg. 

Quaking Pudding. 

Scald a quart of cream ; when almost cold, put to itfoui' 
©ggs well beaten, a spoonful and a half of flour, some nut- 
meiis and sugar; tie it close in a buttered cloth ; boil it an 
hour ; and turn it out with care, lest it sliould crack. 
Melted butter, a little wine, and sugar. 
Cumberland Pudding. 

Mix six ounces of grated bread, the same quantity of 
currants well cleaned and picked, the same of beef-suet 
finely shred, the same of chopped apples, and also of lump- 
sugar, six eggs, half a nutmeg, a pinch of salt, the rind of a 
lemon minced as fine as possible ; and citron^ orange, and 
lemon, a large spoonful of each cut thin. Mix thoroughly, 
and put into a basin ; cover very close with floured cloths, 
and boil three hours. Serve it with pudding-sauce, and 
the juice of half a lemon, boiled together. 
Transparent Pudding. 

Beat eight eggs very well; put them into a stew-pan, 
with half a pound of sugar pounded fine, the same quantity 
of butter, and some nutme«: grated. Set it on the fire, and 
keep stirring it till it tliickens. Then set it into a basin to 
cool ; put a rich puff-paste round the edge of the dish ; 
pour in your pudding, and bake it in a moderate oven. It 
will cut light and clear. You may add candied orange 
and citron if you like. 

Baiter Pudding. 

Rub three spoonfuls of fiue flour extremely smooth by 
degrees into a pint of milk : simmer till it tliickens ; stir in 



VVDIilliCk, 151 

j.wo ounces of bulicr; set it to coo] ; ihen add ihe yolks 
of three eggs : flour a cloth that has been wet, or butter a 
basiu, and put the baiter into it ; tie il tiaht, and pluoge it 
into boiling water, the bottom upvrards. Boil it an hour 
and a half, and serve with plain tiutter. If approved, a 
little ginger, nutmeg, and lemou-peelj may be added. 
Serve with sweet sauce. 

Baiter Pudding rcith Meat. 
Mal^e a batter with fiour. milk, and eggs ; pour a little 
tnto tlie bottom of a pudding-dish ; then put seasoned meat 
ta)f any kind into it, and a little shred onion ; pour the re- 
mainder of the batter over, and bake in a slov/ oven. 

Some like a loin of mutton baked in batter, being first 
t leared of most of the fat. 

Rice small Puddings. 
IV ash two large spoonfuls of rice, and simmer it with 
half a pint of milk till thick, then put the size of an egg of 
butter, and nenr half a pint of thick cream, and give it one 
boil. When cold, mix four yolks and two whites of eggs, 
well beaten, sugar and nutmeg to taste ; and add grated 
lemon, and a little cinnamoB. 

Butter little cups, and fill three parts full, putting at 
bottom some orange or citron. Bake three quarters of au 
hour in a slowish oven. Serve tlie moment before to be 
eaten, with sweet sauce in the dish or a boat. 
Plain Rice Pudding. 
Wash and pick some rice ; throw among it some pimen- 
to finely pounded, but not much ; tie the rice in a cloth, and 
leave plenty of room for it to swell. Boil it in a quantity 
of water for an hour or two. When done, eat it with but- 
ter and sugar, or milk. Put lemon-peel if you please. 

It is very good without spice, and eaten with salt and 
butter. 

A rich Rice Pudding. 
Boil half a pound of rice in water, with a little bit of salt, 
till quite tender ; draiu it dry ; mix it with the yolks and 
whites of four eggs, a quarter of a pint of cream, with two 
ounces of fresh butter melted in the latter, four ounces of 
beef-suet or marrow, or veal-suet taken from a fillet of veal, 
finely shred, three quarters of a pound of currants, tAvo 
spoonfuls of brandy, one of peach-water or ratifia, nutmegs. 



152 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

and grated lemon-peel. When well mixed, put a paste 

round the edge, and fill the dish. Slices of candied orange, 

lemon, and citron, if approved. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Rice Fuddmg with Fmit. 

Swell the rice with a very little milk over the fire ; then 
mix fruit of any kind with it (currants, gooseberries scald- 
ed, pared and quartered apples, raisins, or black currants) ; 
with one egg into the rice, to bind it ; boil it well, and serve 
^vith sugar. 

Baked Rice Pudding. 

Swell rice as above : then add some more milk, an egg, 
sugar, allspice, and lemon-peel. Bake in a deep dish. 

Another for the family. — Put into a very deep pan half 
a pound of rice washed and picked ; two ounces of butter, 
four ounces of sugar, a few allspice pounded, and two 
quarts of milk. Less butter will do, or some suet. Bake 
in a slow oven. 

Pumpkiji Pudding. 

Take one quart of steA^ed and strained pumpkin, add 
aine beaten eggs, three pints of cream, sugar, mace, nut- 
meg, and ginger in powder; bake in dishes thi'ee quarters 
of an hour. 

Jl7i Apple Pudding. 

Boil very tender a handful of small rice in a small 
quantity of milk, with a large piece of lemon-peel. Let it 
drain; then mix with it a dozen of good-sized apples, boil- 
ed to pulp as dry as possible ; add a glass of white wine, 
the yolks of five eggs, two ounces of orange and citron cut 
thin ; make it preity sweet. Line a mold or basin with a 
very good paste ; beat the five whites of the e_7£:s to a very 
strong froth, and mix with the otlier ingredients; fill the 
mold, and bake it of a fine brown colour. Serve it with 
the bottom upward with the following sauce : two glasses 
of wine, a spoonful of sugar, the yolks of two eggs, and a 
bit of butter as lar«re as a walnut ; simmer without boiling, 
and pour to and from the saucepan, till of a proper thick- 
nesn ; and put in the dish. 

An excellent pltiin Poiatoe Pudding. 

Take eight ounces of boiled potatoes, two ounces of but- 
ter, the yolks and whites of two eggs, a quarter of a pint 
of cream, one ppoo'iful of white winp, a morsel of salt, the 
iuice and rind of a lemon; beat all to froth ; sugar to taste . 



l-tDDlNGs. IJU 

A crust or not as you like. Bake it. If wanted richer, 
put three ouQces more butter, sweet-meats aud almonds, 
and another eg^r. 

Potatoe Pudding with Meat. 

Boil them till fit to mash ; nib through a colander, and 
make into a thick batter with milk and two eggs. Lay 
some seasoned steaks in a dish, then some batter ; and over 
the last layer pour the remainder of the batter. Bake a 
fine brown. 

Steak ar Kidney Pudding. 

If kidney, split and soak it, and season that or the meat. 
Make a paste of suet, flour and milk ; roll it, and line a 
basin with some ; put the kidney or steaks in cover with 
paste, aud pinch round the edge. Cover with a cloth, and 
boil a considerable time. 

Beef-steak Ptidding. 

Prepare some fine steaks as mpage 5G ; roll them with 
fat between; and if you approve shred ouian, add a very 
little. Lay a paste of suet in a basin, and put in the rol- 
lers of steaks ; cover the basin with a paste, and pinch the 
edges to keep the gravy in. Cover with a cloth tied close 
and let the pudding boil slowly, but for a length of time. 
Baked Beef-steak Pudding. 

Make a batter of milk, two eggs and flour, or, which is 
much better, potatoes boiled and maslied through a colan- 
der; lay a little of it at the bottom of the dish; then put in 
the steaks prepared as above and very well seasone df 
pour the remainder of the batter over them, and bake it. 
Mutton Pudding. 

Season with salt, pepper, aiid a bit of onion ; lay one lay- 
er of steaks at the bottom of the dish; and pour a batter of 
potatoes boiled and pressed through a colander, and mix- 
ed with milk and an egg, over tlieni ; then putting the rest 
of tlie steaks, and batter, bake it. 

Batter with flour, instead of potatoes, eat well, but re- 
quires more egg, and is not so good. 

Another. — Cut slices off a leg that has been underdone, 
and put them iiito a basin lined witli a fine suet crust. 
Season with pepper, saU, and finely -shred onion or shalot. 
Suit Pudding. 

Shred a pound of suet: mix with a pound and a quar- 
ter of flour, two eggs beaten separately, a little salt, aud 



154 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

as little milk as ^vill make it. Boil four hours, it eau 
well next day, cut in slices and broiled. 

The outward fat of loins or necks of mutton finely shred 
makes a more delicate pudding than suet. 
Veal suet Puddmg, 

Cut the crumb of a small loaf into slices ; boil and sweet- 
en two quarts of new milk, and pour over it. When soak- 
ed, pour out a little of the milk; and mix with six eggs 
well beaten, and half a nutmeg. Lay the slices of bread 
into a dish ; with layers of currants and veal-suet shred, 
a pound of each. Butter the dish w ell, and bake ; or you 
may boil it in a basin, if you prefer it. 
Hunter's Pudding. 

Mix a pound of suet, ditto flour, ditto currants, ditto 
raisins stoned and a little cut, the rind of half a lemon 
shred as fine as possible, six Jamaica peppers in fine 
powder, four eggs , a glass of brandy, a little salt, and 
as little milk as will make it of a proper consistence ; boil 
it in a floured cloth, or a melon-mould, eight or nine hours. 
Serve with sweet sauce. Add sometimes a spoonful of 
pe^h-water for change of flavour. 

This pudding will keep, after it is boiled, six months, 
if kept tied up in the same cloth, and hung up, folded in a 
sheet of cap-paper to preserve it from dust, being fi>st cold. 
When to be used, it must boil a full hour. 
Common Plum Pudding. 

The same proportions of flour and suet, and half the 
quantity of fruit, with spice, lemon, a glass of wine or not, 
and one Q.g<^ and milk, ^vill make an excellent pudding, if 
long boiled. 

Custard Pudding. 

Mix by degrees a pint of good milk with a large spoon- 
ful of flour, the yolks of five eggs, some orange-flower wa- 
ter, and a little pounded cinnamon. Butter a basin that 
will exactly hold it, pour the batter in, and tic a floured 
cloth over. Put in boiling water over the fire, and turn it 
about a few minutes to prevent the egg going to one side. 
Half an hour will boil it. 

Put currant-jelly on it, and serve with sweet sauce. 
Macaroni Pudding. 

Simmer an ounce or two of the pipe-sort, in a pint of 
milk, and a bit of lemon and cinnamon, till tender: put it 



•• 



PUDDINGS. 



153 



into a dish, with milk, two or three eggs, but only one 
wliitc, sii^ar, nutmeg, a spoonful of rose-water, and half a 
glass of wine. Bake with a paste round the edges. 

A layer of orange-marmalade, or raspberry jam, in a 
macaroni pudding, for change, is a great improvement. 
Carrot Fudding. 

Boil a larc-c carrot tenrler; then bruise it in a marble 
mortar, and mix with it a spoonful of biscuit-powie.r, or 
three or four little sweet biscuits without seeds, four yolks 
and two whites of e^gs, a pint of cream either raw or scald- 
ed, a little cordial or brandy, a lar^e spoonful of orange or 
rose-water, a quarter of a nutme-r, and two ounces of su- 
gar. Bake it in a shallow dish lined with paste ; and 
tuiu it out to serve, with a little sugar dusted over. 
An excellent Apricot Pudding. 

Have twelve large apricots, give them a scald till they 
are soft ; mean time pour on the s^i^ated crumbs of half a 
small loaf, a pint of boiling cream ; when half cold, four 
0!iu ' s of sugar, the yolks of four beaten eggs, and a glass 
of wirite wine. Pound the apricots in a mortar, with some 
or ail of the kernels; mix then the frun and other ingre- 
dknts together; put a paste round the dish, and bake the 
pudding half an hour. 

Baked Gooscbcny Pudding, 

Stew gooseberries in a jar over a hot hearth, or in a 
sauce-pan of water till they will pulp. Take a pint of 
the juice pressed through a coarse sieve, and beat it with 
three yolks and whites of eggs beaten and strained, one 
ounce and a half of butter ; sweeten it well, and put a crust 
round the dish. A few crumbs of roll should be mixed 
with the above to give a little consistence, or lour ounces 
of ]N^aples biscuits. 

A Grcen-hcan Pudding. 

Boil and blanch old beasis, beat them in a mortar, witb 
very little pepper and salt, some cream, and the yolk of aa 
e^g. A little spinach juice will give a finer colour, but it 
is as good without. Boil it in a Ijasin that will just hold it 
an hour : and pour parsley and butter over. 
Serve bacon to eat with it. 

Plu7n Pudding. 

Mix three quarters of a pound of raisins, one pound of 
O 



156 DOMESTIC COOKERV. 

suet, one pound of flour, six eggs, a little good milk, soiue 
lemon-peel, a little salt. Boil it in a melon-sliape six 
hours. 

Brandy Pudding. 

Line a mould witli jar-raisins stoned, or dried cherries, 
then with thin slices of French roll, next to which put ma- 
caroons ; then the fruit, rolls, and cakes in Accession, un- 
til the mould be full; sprinkling in at times two glasses of 
brandy. Beat four eggs, yolks and whites; put to a pint of 
milk or cream, lightly sweetened, half a nutmeg, and the 
rind of half a lemon finely grated. Let the liquid sink 
into the solid part ; then flour a cloth, tie it tight over, and 
boil one hour ; keep the mould the right side up. Serve 
"with pudding-sauce. 

Buttermilk Pudding* 

Warm three quarts of new milk; turn it with a quart of 
buttermilk; drain the curd through a sieve: wlien dry^ 
pound in a marble mortar, with near half a pound of su- 
gar, a lemon boiled tender, the crumb of a roll grated, a 
nutmeg grated, six bitter almonds, four ounces of warm but- 
ter, a tea-cupful of good cream, the yolks of five and whites 
of three eggs, a glass of sweet wine, and ditto of brandy. 

When well incorporated, bake in small cups or bowls 
well buttered; if the bottom be not brown, use a salaman- 
der ; but serve as quick as possible, and with pudding- 
sauce. 

Curd Puddings, or Puffs. 

Turn two quarts of milk to curd, press the whey from 
It, jub through a sieve, and mix four ounces of butter, the 
crumb of half a small loaf, two spoonfuls of cream, and half 
a nutmeg, a small quantity of sugar, and two spoonfuls of 
white wine. Butter little cups, or small patty-pans, and 
fill them three parts. Orange-flower water is an improve- 
ment. Bake them with care. 

Serve with sweet sauce in a boat. 

Boiled Curd Pudding. 

Rub the curd of two gallons of milk well drained through 
a sieve. Mix it with six eggs, a little cream, two spoon- 
fuls of orange-flower water, half a nutmeg, flour and 
cnimbs of bread each three spoonfuls, currants and raisins 
half a pound of each. Boil an hour in a thick well-flour- 
ed cioth. 



PUDDINGS. 1S7 

Pippin Pudding. 

Codale six pippins in vine-leaves covered witJi water, 
very gently, that the inside be done without breaking the 
skins. When soft, skin, and v/ith a tea-spoon take the 
pulp from the cc^e. Pi^ss it through a colander ; add two 
spoonfuls of orange-flower water, tliree eggs beaten, a glass 
of wine, a pint of scalded cream, sugar and nutmeg to taste. 
Lay a thin puff paste at the bottom and sides of the dish : 
shred very thin lemon-peel as fine as possible, and put it 
into tlie dish; likAvise lemon, orange, and citron, in small 
slices, but not so thin as to dissolve in the baking. 
Yorkshire Pudding. 

Mix five spoonfuls of flotir Avith a quart of milk, and 
three eggs well beaten. Butter the pan. When brown 
by baking under the meat turn the other side upAvards, 
and brown that. It should be made in a square pan, and 
cut into pieces to come to table. Set it over a chafing- 
dish at first, and stir it some minutes. 

A quick made Pudding. 

Flour and suet half a pound each, four eggs, a quarter 
of a pint of new milk, a little mace and nutmeg, a quarter 
of a pound of raisins, ditto of currants ; mix well, and boil 
three quarters of an hour with the cover of the pot on, or 
it will require longer. 

Ground rice Pudding. 

Boil a large spoonful heaped, in a pint of new milk, with 
lemon peel and cinnamon. When cold, add sugar, nut- 
meg, and two eggs well beaten. Bake with a crust round 
the dish. 

A Welch Pudding. 

Let half a pound of fine butter melt gently, beat with it 
the yolks of eight, and whites of four eggs, mix in six oun- 
ces of loaf sugar, and the rind of a lemon grated. Put a 
paste into a dish for turning out, and pour the above in, 
and nicely bake it. 

Dumpli7igs. 

Of grated bread two ounces, currants and shred suet 
fiour ounces each, two large spoonfuls of flour, a great 
deal of grated lemon-peel, a bit of sugar, and a little pimen- 
to in fine powder. Mix with two eggs and a little milk 
in to five dumplingis, aT?d fry of a fine yellow brown. Made 



^58 P0MK9TI€ CeOKERY. 

with flour instead of bread, but haKthe quantity, they are 
jexcellent. 

Serve with sweet sauce. 

Suet Dumplings, 

Make as pudding (page 1 53) ; acd drop into boiling 
water, or into boiling of beef: or you may boil them in a 
cloth. 

Apple, €urrant, or Batn»on Duntplings, or Puddings. 

Make as above, and line a basin with tlie paste tolerably 
thin ; fill with the fruit, and cover it ; tie a cloth over tight, 
and boil till the fruit shall be done enough. 
Yeast Dumplings. 

Make a very light dough \iith yeast, as for bread, but 
with milk instead of water, ^nd put sal*» Let it rise art 
iiour before the fire. 

Twenty minutes before you are to servT, have ready a 
large stew-pan of boiling water; make the dough into balk, 
the size of a middling apple ; throw them in and boil twenty 
minutes. If you doubt .when done enough, stick a cleau 
fork into one, and if it come out clear, it is done. 

The way to cat them is to tear them apart on the top 
with two forks, for they become heavy by their own 
steam. Eat immediately with meat, or sugar and buttei^ 
or salt, 

A Chariot te. 

Cut as many very thin slices of white bread as will cover 
the bottom and line the sides of a baking dish, but first rub 
it thick with butter. Put apples, in thin slices, into the 
dish, in layers, till full, strewing sugar between, and bits 
of bnttcr. In the mean time, soak as many thin slices of 
iTCTid as will cover the whole, in warm milk, over which 
Uiy a plate, and a weight to keep the bread close on the ap- 
pies. Bake slowly three hours. To a middling sized 
dish use half a pound of butter in the whole. 
Commcn Pancakes. 

Make a light batter of eggs, flour and milk. Fry in 
a small pan, in hot dilpping or lard. Salt, or nutmeg, and 
gin«rer, may be added. 

Sugar and lemon should be served to eat with them. 
Or, when eggs arc scarce, make the batter, with flour, 
and small beer, einger, &c. or clean snow, with flour and 
a very little milk, will serve as Avell as c^'^. 



PUDDINGS, <feC, ISQ 

Fine Pancakes fried, mithout Butter or Lard 
Beat six fresh eggs extremely well ; mix when strained, 
vith a pint of cream, four ounces of sugar, a glass of wine, 
half a nutmeg grated, and as much flour as will make it al- 
most as thick as ordinary pancake batter, but not quite^ 
Heat the frying-pan tolerably hot, wipe it with a clean 
cloth ; then pour in thi batter, to make thin pancakes. 
Pancakes of Rice. 
Boil half a pound of rice to a jelly in a small quantity 
of water ; when cold, mix it with a pint of cream, eight eggs, 
a bit of salt and nutmeg : stir in eight ounces of butter just 
warmed, and add as much flour as will make the batter 
thick enough. Fry in as little lard or dripping as pos- 
sible. 

Irish Pancakes, 
Beat eight yolks and four whites of eggs, strain them 
into a pint of cream, put a grated nutmeg, and sugar to your 
taste ; set three ounces of fresh butter on the fire, stir it, 
and as it warms pour it to the cream, which should be 
warm when the eggs are put to it; then mix smooth al- 
most half a pint of flour. Fry the pancakes very thin ; 
the first with a bit of butter, but not the others. 
Serve several, on one another. 

New-England Pancakes. 
Mix a pint of cream, five spoonfuls of fide floiir, sevea 
yolks and four whites of eggs, and a veryMittle salt : ' fry • 
them very thin in fresh butter, and between each stre^ 
sugar and cinnamon. Send up six or eight at once. 
Fritters. 
Make them of any of the batters directed for pancakes, 
by dropping a small quantity into the pan : or make the 
plainer sort, and put pared apples sliced and cored into 
the batter, and fry some of it with each slice. Currants 
or sliced lemon as thin as paper, make an agreeable change, 
— Fritters for company should be served on a folded nap- 
kin in the dish. Any sort of sweetmeat, or ripe fruit, may 
be made into fritters. 

Spanish Fritters. 
Cut the crum of a French roll into lengths, as thick as 
your finrrer, in vh^t shape you will. Soak in so;ne cre^ii, 
nutmeg, sugar, pouaded cinmmoo, and an egg. Wbeo 
O 2 



160 DOMESTIC COOKBHr. 

TV ell soaked, fry of a nice brown y and serve with butter , 
wine, and sii^ar-sauce. 

Potatoe Fritters, 

Boil two large potatoes, scrape them fine ; beat four 
jolks and three whites of eggs, and add to the above one 
large spoonful of cream, another of sweet Avine, a squeeze 
of a lemon, and a little nutmeg. Beat tliis batter half an 
hour at least. It will be extremely light. Put a good 
quantity of fine lard in a stew-pan, and drop a spoonful of 
the batter at a time into it. Fry them and serve as a sauce, 
a glass of white wine, the juice of a lemon, one desert- 
spoonful of peach-leaf or almond-water, and some white su- 
gar w armed together : not to be served in the dish. 

Another way. — Slice potatoes thin, dip them in a fine 
batter and fry . Serve w'ith white sugar, sifted over them. 
Lemon-peel, and a spoonful of orange-flower water, should 
be added to the batter. 

Buckwheat Pancakes* 

Mix three ounces of buckwheat flour, with a teacupful 
of warm milk, and a spoonful of yeast ; let it rise before 
'the fire about an hour ; then mix four eggs well beateu, 
and as much milk as will make the batter the usual thick- 
HP.ss for paneakeS; and fry them the same. 

PASTRY. 

C"^^^ Rich Puff Paste. 
I ;^flfeiiiay-be<b.ade of any* sort of fiuiC, but it should be 
fjfepare4'first with sugar. 

WfTgh an equal quantify of btiller with as much fine 
^iir as you judge necefsaiy: mix a little of the former 
with the latter, and -wet it with as little water as will make 
into a stiffpaste. Roll il out, and put all the butter over 
It in slices, turn in the ends, and roll it thin ; do this twice, 
and touch it no more tlian ca^i be avoided. The butter 
may be added at twice: and to those who are not accus- 
tomed to make paste it may be ])etter to do so. 
A quicker oven than for short crust. 
A less rich Paste. 
Weigh a pound of flour, and a quarter of a pound of 
butter, rub them together, and mix into a paste with a lit- 
tle water, :iiid an egg well beaten — of the former as little 
as will suffice, or the paste will be tough. Roll, a.nd fold 
•t three or four time?*. 



PASIRY. 16^ 

Rub extremely fine in one pound of dried flour, six oun 
ces of butter, and a spoonful of white su^ar ; work up the 
>vhoie into a stiff paste with as little hot v. ater as possible^ 
Cnisifor Fcnison Pasty. 

To a quarter of a peck of fine flour use two pounds and 
a half of butter, and four eggs; mix into paste with warm 
water and work it smootii and to a good consistence. Put 
a paste round the inside, but not to the bottom of the dish, 
and let the cover be pretty thick, to bear the long continu- 
ance in the oven. 

Rice Paste for Sweets. 

Boil a quarter of a pound of grouDd rice in the smallest 
quantity of water : strain IVom it all the moisture as well 
as you can; beat it in a nioitar vvi'di liRli an ounce of but- 
ter, and one t^^ well beaten, and it will make an excellent 
paste for tarts, &c. 

Rice Paste for relishing things. 

Clean, and put some rice, witli an onion and a little 
water, and milk, or milk only, into a sauce-pan, and sim- 
mer till it swell. Put seasoned chops into a difli, and 
Gftver it Avith the rice ; by the addition of an egg, the rice 
will adhere better. 

Rabbits fricasseed, and covered thus are very good. 
Potatoe Paste. 

Pound boiled potatoes very fine, and aj d ' , " u t^j f warm, 
a sufficiency of butter to make the mash iiold togelhfes-. or 
Tou may mix wdth it aneg^;; then before i[ ^.cis cold, flour 
the board pretty well to prevent it from sticking;- nn;l roil 
it to the thickness wanted. ^ 

If it is become quite cold before it be put on the disirS, 
i-t will be apt to crack. 

Raised crust for Custards or Fruit. 

Put four ounces of butter into a sauce-pan v/ith water, 
and when it boils, pour it into as much flour as you choose ; 
knead and beat it till smooth ; cover it, as at page 144. 
Raise it ; and if for custard, put a paper within to keep 
out the sides till half done, tlien fill with a cold mixture of 
milk, egg, sugar, and a little peach-Avater, lemon-peel, or 
nutmeg. By cold is meant tl^at the egg is not to be warm- 
ed, but the milk should be warmed by itself — not to spofi 
tjio crust. 



163 rOMBSTIC COOKER V. 

The above butter will make a great deal of raised cru^ 
which must not be rich, or it will be difHcult to prevent the 
sides from falling. 

Excelleyit short Crust 

Make two ounces of white sugar, pounded and sifted, 
quite dry j then mix it with a pound of flour well dried : 
rub into it three ounces of butter, so fine as not to be seen 
— into some cream put tlie yolks of two eggs, beaten, and 
mix the above into a smooth paste ; roll it thin, and bake 
;U in a moderate oven. 

Another, — Mix with a pound of fine flour, dried, an 
ounce of sugar pounded and sifted ; then crumble three 
ounces of butter in it, till it looks all like flour, and, with 
a gill of boiling cream, work it up to a fine paste. 

Anothir. not sweet, hut rich. — Rub six ounces of butter 
in eight ounces of fine flour ; mix it into a stiffish paste, 
with as little water as possible ; beat it well, and roll it thin. 
This; as well as the former, is proper for tarts of fresh or 
preserved fruits. Bake in a moderate oven. 
A very fine Crust for Orange cheesecakes, or Sweetmeats, 
when to he particularly nice. 

Dry a pound of the finest flour, mix with it three oun- 
ces of refined sugar ; then work half a pound of butter with 
your hand till it come to froth ; put the flour into it by de- 
grees, and work into it, well beaten and strained, the yolks 
of thf e'e, and-whites of two eggs. If too limber, put some 
flour and suo:ar to make it fit to roll. Line your patty- 
pans and fill. A little above fifteen minutes will bake 
tbem. Against they come out, have ready some refined 
sugar beat up with the white of an t^^, as thick as you 
can ; ice them all over, set them in tho oven to harden, 
and serve cold. Use fresh butter. 

Salt butter will make a very fine flaky crust ; but if for 
mince-pies, or any sweet things, sliould be washed. 
Observations on Pastry. 

An adept in pastry never leaves any part of it adhering 
to the board, or dish, used in making. It is best when 
rolled on marble, or a very larire slate. In very hot 
weather, the butter should be put '.nto cold water to make 
it as firm as possible; and if made early in the moVninn^, 
and preserved from the air until it is to be baked, the cook 



PASTRY. 16S 

■wHl find it much better. A good hand at pastry "will use 
much less butter, and produce ligliter cnist than others. 
Salt butter, if very good, and well washed, makes a fine 
flaky crust. 

Remark on using preserved Fndts in Pastry. 

Preserved fmits should not be baked long; those that 
have been done with their full proportion of sugar, require 
no baking ; the crust should be baked in a tin shape, and 
thfi fruit be afterwards added ; or it may be put into a 
small dish, or tart-pans, and the covers be baked on a tin 
cut out according to your taste. 

Apple Pie, 

Pare and core the fruit, having -wiped 1 he outside j 
■which, with the cores, boil with a little water till it tastes 
well : strain, and put a little sugar, and a bit of biiiised 
cinnamon, and simmer again. In the mean time place the 
apples in a dish, a paste being put round the e(\^e ; when 
one layer is in, sprinkle half the sugar, and shred lemon- 
peel, and squeeze some juice, or a glass of cider. If the 
apples have lost their spirit, put in the rest of the apples, 
sugar, and the liquor that you have boiled. Cover 
with paste. You may add some butter when cut, if eat- 
en hot ; or put quince-marmalade, orange-paste or cloves, 
to flavour. 

Hot Apple Pie. — Make with the fruit, sugar, and a 
clove, and put a bit of butter in when cut open. 

Clurry Pie 
Should have a mixture of other fruit ; currants or rasp- 
berries, or both. 

Mince Pie. 

Of scraped beef free from skin and strings, weigh 21b. 
41b. of suet picked and chopped, then add Gib. of currants 
cicely cleaned and perfectly dry, 31b, of chopped apples, 
the peel and juice of two lemons, a pint of sweet wine, a 
nutmeg, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, ditto mace, ditto 
pimento, in finest powper ; press the whole into a deep pan 
v,hen well mixed, and keep it covered in a dry cool 
place. 

Half the quantity is enough, unless for a very large 
family. 

Have citron, orange, and lemon-peel ready, and put 
^onie of each in the pies when made. 



164 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

Mince Pies without Meat, 

Of the best apples six pounds, pared, cored, and min- 
ced ; of fresh suet, and raisins stoned, each three pounds, 
likewise minced : to these add of mace and cinnamon, a 
quarter of an ounce eacl), and-ei;ii;ht cloves, in finest pow- 
der, three pounds of the finest powder sugar, three quar- 
ters of an ounce of salt, the rinds of four and juice of two 
lemons, half a pint of port, the same of brandy. Mix v, ell 
and put into a deep pan. 

Have ready washed and dried four pounds of currants, 
and add as you make the pies, with candied fruit. 
Le?non Mince Pits. 

Squeeze a lar<T;e lemon, boil the outside till tender 
enough to beat to a masli, add to it three large apples chop- 
ped, and four ounces of suet, half a pound of currants, four 
ounces of sugar; put the juice of the lemon, and caudied 
fruit, as for other pies. Make a short crust, and fill the 
patty pans as usual. 

Egg Miiice Pies. 

Boil six eggs hard, shred them small: shred double the 
quantity of suet ; then put currants washed and picked, 
one pound, or more, if the eggs are large; the peel of 
one lemon shred very fine, and the juice, six spoonfuls of 
sweet wine, mace, nutmeg, sugar, a very little salt ; orange, 
feraon, and citron candied. Make a light paste for them. 
Currant and Raspberry. 

For a tart, line the dish, put sugar, and fruit, lay bars 
across, and bake. 

Light Paste for Tarts and Cheesecakes, 

Beat the white of an egg to a strong froth ; then mix It 
with as much water as will make three quarters of a pound 
of fine flour into a very stiff paste ; roll it veiy thin, then 
lay the third part of half a pound of butter upon it in 
little bits; dredge it with some flour left out at first, and 
roll it up tight. Roll it out again, and put the same pro- 
portion of butter; and so proceed till all be worked up. 
Iceing for Tarts. 

Beat the yolks of an egg and some melted butter well to- 
gether, wash the tarts with a feather, and sift sugar over 
as you put them in the oven. Or beat white of egg, wash 
the paste, and sift white sugar. 



PASTRY. • 1 6£r 

Pippin Tarts. 

Pare thin two oranges, boil the peel tender, and siired 
it fine ; pare and core twenty apples, put them in a stew- 
pan, and as little w ater as possible ; when half done, add 
half a pound of sugar, the orange-peel and juice; boil till 
pretty tliick. When cold, put it in a shallow dish, or pat- 
typans lined with paste, to turn out, and be eaten cold. 
Prune Tart. 

Give prunes a scald, take out the stones and break 
tliem ; put the kernels into a little cramberry juice, with 
the prunes and sugar; simmer; and when cold raake a 
tart of the sweetmeat 

Orange Tart. 

Squeeze, pulp, and lx)il two Seville oranges tender, 
weigh tliem, and double of sugar : l3eat both together to 
a paste, and tlien add the juice and pulp of the fruit, and 
the size of a walnut of fresh butter, and beat all together. 
Choose a very shallow dish, line it with a light puff-crust, 
and lay the paste of orange in it. You may ice it. 
Apple Tart. 

Scald the fruit as will be directed under that article ; 
■when ready take off the thin skin, and lay them whole 
in a dish, put a little of the water that the apples were boil^ 
ed in at bottom, strew them over with lump sugar or fine 
Havanna ; when cold, put a paste round the edges and 
over. 

You may v>'et it with wliite of egg, and strew sugar 
over, which looks well : or cut the lid in quarters, without 
touching the paste on the edge of the dish ; and either put 
the broad end downwards, and make the point stand up, or 
remove the lid altogether. Pour a good custard over it 
when cold ; sift sugar over. 

Or line the bottom of a shallow dish w ith paste, lay the 
apples in it, sweeten, and lay little twists of paste over in 
bars. 

Raspberry Tart with Cream. 

Roll out some thin puff-paste, and lay it in a patty-paQ 
of what size you choose ; put in raspberries ; strew over 
them fine sugar; cover with a thin lid, and then bake. 
Cut it opeu, and have ready the following mixture w arm : 
half a pint of cream the yolks of two or three eegs well 



IM^ DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

beaten, and a little sugar; and when this is added to the 
tart, return it to the oven for five or six minutes. 
Orange Tart. 

Lice a tartpan wih thin pulT-paste ; put into it orange 
marmalade that is made with apple-jcUy : lay bars of paste 
over, and bake in a moderate oven. 
Fried Fatties. 

Mince a bit of cold veal, and six oysters, mix with a 
iew crumbs of bread, salt, pepper, nutme;^, and a veiy 
small bit of lemon-peel — add the liquor o' the oysters; 
warm all in a tosser, but don't boil ; let it go cold ; have 
ready a good puff-paste, roll thin, and cut it in round or 
square bit?; put some of the above hetween two of them,twist 
the edges to keep in the gravy,aud fry them of a fine brown. 

This is a very good thing; and baked, is a fashionable 
dish. 

AVash all patties over with egg before baking. 
Oyster Patties. 

Put a fmc puff-paste into small patty-pans, and cover 
with paste, with a bit of toast in each ; and against they 
are baked have ready the following to fill with, taking 
out the beard. Take off the beards of the oysters, cut the 
other parts in small bits, put them, in a small tosser, with a 
grate of nutmeg, the least Arhite pepper, and salt, a morsel 
of lomon-pcel, cuf^so small that you can scarcely see it, a 
little cream,' and a little of the oyster liquor. Simmer a 
lew minutes before you fill. 
1^ Observe to put a bit of crust into all patties, to keep 
them hollow while baking. 

Oyster Patties^ or small Pic. 

Open the oysters, separate them from the liquor, which 
strain ; parboil them, after taking off the beards. Parboil 
sweetbreads, and cutting them in slices, lay them and the 
oysters in layers, season very lightly wiih salt, pepper, 
and mace. Then put half a tea-cup of liquor, and the 
same of gravy. Bake in a slow oven ; and before you 
serve, put a tea-cup of cream, a little more oyster-liquor, 
and a cup of white gravy all warmed, but not boiled. If 
for patties, the oysters should be cut in small dice, gently 
stewed and seasoned as above, and put into the paste when 
ready for table. 



Lobster Patties. 

Make with the same seasoning, a little cream, and the 
smallest bit of butter. 

Beef Patties. 

Shred underdone dressed beef Tvitli a little fat, season 
with pepper, salt and a little shalot or onion. Make a 
plain paste, roll it thin, and cut in shape like an apple puff, 
(111 it with mince, pinch the ed«;es, and fry them of a nice 
brown. 7'he paste fchould be made with a small quantity 
of butter, egg, and milk. 

Veal Patties. 

Mince some veal that is not quite done with a little par- 
sley, lemon-peel, a scrape of nutmeg, and a bit of salt; add 
a little cream and gra\y just to moisten the meat ; and if 
YOU have any ham, scrape a little, and add to it. Don't 
warm it till the patties are baked. 

Turkey Patties. 

Mince some of the white part, and with grated lemoa, 
nutmeg, salt, a very little wliite pepper, cream, and a veiy 
little bit of butter warmed, fill the patties. 
Sweet Patties. 

Chop the meat of a boiled calfs foot, of which you 
use the liquor for jelly, two apples, one ounce of orange 
and lemon peel candied, and some fresh peel and juice ; 
mix with them half a nutmeg grated, tlie^yolk of an eg^, 
a spoonful of braudy, and four ounces of ciirrants washed 
and dried. 

IJuke in small pattypans. ^Nt. 

Patties resembling Mince Pies. ^^JS 

Chop the kidney and fat of cold veal, apple, orange, 
and lemon-peel candied, and fresh currants, a little wine, 
two or three cloves, a little brandy, and a bit of sugar^ 
Bake as before. 

Apple Puffs. 

Pare the fruit, and either stew them in a stone jar on a 
hot hearth, or bake them. When cold, mix the pulp of 
the apple with sugar and lemon-peel shred fine, taking as 
little of the apple-juice as you can. Bake them in thia 
paste, in a quick oven ; a quarter of an hour will do them, 
if small. Orange or quince-marmalade, is a great iraprove- 
P 



t68 DOJiESTic cookery: 

ment. Cinnamon pounded, or orange-flower water, iu 
change. 

Lemon Puffs. 

Beat and sift a pound and a quarter of double refined 
su^^ar ; grate the rind of two lar'^e lemons, and mix it well 
•with the sugar; then beat the whites of three new-laid 
eggs a great while, add them to the su;^ar and peel, and 
beat it for an hour : make it up in any shape you please, 
and bake it on paper put on tin plates, in a moderate oven. 
Don't remove the paper till cold. Oiling the paper will 
make it come off with ease. 

Cheese Pt(ffs. 

Strain cheese-curl from the ^\hey, and beat half a pint 
basin of it fine in a mortar, with a spoonful and a half of 
flour, three eggs, but only one A-hite, a spoonful of 
orange-flower water, a quarter of a nutmeg, and sugar to 
make it pretty sweet. Lay a little of this paste, in small 
very rcund cakes, on a tin plate. If the oven is hot, a 
quarter of an hour will bake them. Serve witfi pudding- 
sauce. 

Excellent light Puffs. 

Mix two spoonfuls of flour, a little grated lemon -peel, 
some nutmeg, half a spoonful of brandy, a little loaf-sugar, 
and one egg; then fry it enough, but not brown ; beat it in 
a mortar with five eggs, whites and yolks ; put a quantity 
of lard in a frying-pan, and when quite hot, drop adessert- 
bpoonful of batter at a time : turn as they brown. Serve 
fviiiem immediately, with sweet-sauce. 

To prepare Venison for PaMy. 

Take the bones out, then season and beat the meat, lay 
it into a stone jar in large pieces, pour upon it some plain 
drawn beef gravy, but not a strong one, lay the bones on 
the top, then set the jar in a waler-bath, that is, a sauce-pun 
of water over the fire, sinnncr three or four hours — then 
leave it in a cold place till next day. Remove the cake 
of fat, lay the meat in handsoFue pieces on the dish ; if not 
sufficiently seasoned, add moie pepper, salt, or pimento as 
necessary. Put some of the gravy, and keep the remain- 
der fur the time of serving. If the venison be thus pre- 
pared, it will not require so nuich time to bake, or such a 
very thick crust as is usual, and by which the under part 
7s seldom done through. 



PASTRY. i 69 

Venison Pasty. 

A shoulder toned makes a good pasty, but it must be 
beaten and seasoned, and the want of fat supplied by that 
of a fine Avell-hung loin of mutton, steeped twenty-four hours 
in equal parts of rape, vinegar, and port 

The shoulder being sinewy, it will be of advantage to 
rub it well with sugar for two or three days, and when to 
be used wipe it perfectly clean from it, and the Avine. 

A mistake prevails that venison could not be baked too 
much : but as above directed, three or four hours in a slow 
oven will be sulFicient to make it tender, and the flavour 
will be preserved. Either in shoulder or side, the meat 
must be cut in pieces, and laid with fat between, that it 
may be p- oportioned to eacli person, without breaking up 
tlie pasty to find it. Lay some pepper and salt at the bot- 
tom of the dish, and some butter ; then tli€ meat nicely 
packed that it may be sufficently done, but not lie hollow 
to harden at the edges. 

The venison bones should be boiled with some fine old 
mutton — of this gravy put half 3 pint cold into the dish ; 
then lay butter on the venison, and cover as well as line 
the sides with a thick crust, but don't put one under the 
meat. Keep the remainder of the gravy till the pasty 
comes from the oven ; put it into the middle by a funnel, 
quite hot, and shake the dish to mix well. It should be 
seasoned with pepper and salt. 

To make a Pasty of Beef or Mutton, to eat as well as 
Venison. 

Bone a small rump or a piece of sirloin of beel, or a fat 
loin of mutton, after hanging several daj s. Beat it very 
well with a rolling pin; then rub ten pounds of meat witit 
four ounces of susar, and pour over it a glass of port, and 
the same of vinegar. Let it lie five days and nights ; 
wash and wipe the meat very diy, and season it very high 
with pepper, Jamaica pepper, nutmeg, and salt. Lay it 
in your dish, and to ten pounds put one pound or near frf 
butter, spreading it over the meat. Put a crust round 
the edges, and cover with a thick one, or it will be over- 
done before the meat be soaked — it must be done in a slow 
oven. 

Set the bones in a pan in the oven, with no more water 
than will cover them> and one glass of port, and a little 



l-7# UOlIESTtC liOOKEBi:. 

pepper and salt, that you may have a little rich gravy t& 
add to the pasty ^vheii drawn. 

Note : — Sugar gives a greater shortness, and better fla- 
vour to meats than salt, too great a quantity of which har- 
f^Tcus — and it is quite as great a preservativ e. 
Potatoe Pasty, 

Boil, peel, and mash potatoes as fine as possible ; mix 
then with salt, pepper, and a good bit of butter. Make a 
paste ; roll it out thin like a large puff, and put in the po- 
tatoe ; fold over one half, pinching the edges. Bake iu a 
moderate oven. 

Cheap and Excellent Custards. 

Boil three pints of new milk, with a bit of lemon-peel, a 
bit of cinnamon, and sweeten it. Meanwhile rub down 
Jiinooth a large spoonful of rice-flour into a cup of cold 
juilk, and mix with it two yolks of eggs well beaten. Take 
a basin ol the boiling milk, and mix with the cold, and 
then pour that to the boiling ; stirring it one way till it be- 
gins to thiclcen, and is just going to boil up ; then pour it 
into a paja, stir it some time, add a large spoonful of peach- 
water, two tea-gpoonfuls of brandy, or a little ratifia. 

Marbles boiled in custard, or any thing likely to burn, 
will, by shaking them in the sauce-pan, prevent it from 
catching. 

Rich Custard. 

Boil a pint of milk with lemon-peel and cinnamon; mix 
a pint of cream, and the yolks of five eggs w ell beaten ; 
when the milk tastes of the seasoning, sweeten it enough 
for the w hole ; pour it into the cream, stirring it well ; 
then give the custard a simmer till of a proper tliickness. 
Don't let it boil ; stir the whole time oneway; season as 
above. If to be extremely rich, put uo milk, but a quart 
of cream to the eggs. 

Baked Custard. 

Boil one pint of cream, half a pint of milk; with mace, 
cinnamon, and lemon-peel, a little of each. When cold, 
mix the yolks of three eggs ; sweeten, and make your 
cups or paste nearly full. Bake them ten minutes. 
Lcmmi Custard. 

Beat the yolks of eight eggs till they are as white as 
milk ; then put to them a pint of boiling water, tlic rindft 



PASTRY. 171 

of two lemons grated, and the juice sweetened to youp 
taste. Stir it on the fire till thick enough ; then add a 
large glass of rich wine, and half a glass of brandy ; give 
the whole one scald, and put in cups to be eaten cold. 
Almond Custard. 

Blanch and beat four ounces of almonds fine with a 
spoonful of water ; beat a pint of cream with two spoonfuls 
of rose-water, and put them to the yolks of four egjis, and 
as much sugar as will make it pretty sweet ; then add the 
almond ; stir it all over a slow fire till it is of a proper 
thickness ; but don't boil. Pour it into cups. 
Cheesecakes. 

Strain the whey from the curd of two quarts of milk; 
when rather dr^-, crumble it through a coarse sieve, and 
mix with six ounces of fresh butter, one ounce of pounded 
blanched almonds, a little orange-flower water, half a i;lass 
of raisin wine, a grated biscuit, four ounces of currants, 
some nutmeg, and cinnamon, in fine powder, and beat all 
the above with three eggs, and half a pint of cream, till 
quite light ; then fill the pattypans three parts full. 
A plainer sort. 

Turn three quarts of milk to curd, break it, and drain 
the whey : when diy, break it in a pan, with two ounces 
of butter, till perfectly smooth ; put to it a pint and a half 
of thin cream, or good milk, and add sugar, cinnamon, nut- 
meg, and three ounces of currants. 

CheeseeaJces, another ivay. 

Mix the curd of three quarts of milk, a pound of cur- 
rants, twelve ounces of white sugar, a quarter of an ounce 
of cinnamon, ditto of nutmeg, the peel of one lemon chop- 
ped so fine that it becomes a paste, the yolks of eight and 
w hites of six eggs, a pint of scalded crcam, and a glass of 
brandy. Put a light thin pufT-paste in the patty-pans, and 
three parts fill them. 

Lemon Cheesecakes. 

Mix four ounces of sifted lump-sugar and four ounces 
9f butter and gently melt it; then add the yolks of two 
and the white of one egg, the rind of three lemons shred 
fine, and the juice of one and a half, one Savoy biscuit, 
some blanched almoids pounded, three spoonfuls of brai> 
dy ', mix well, and put in paste made as follows ; eight 
P 2 



172 DOMESTIC COOKERY, 

ounces of flour, six ounces of butter : two-thirds of ivfiich 
mix with the flour first ; then wet it with six spoonfuls of 
water, and roll tlie remainder in. 

Another way. — Boil two large lemons, or three smaH 
ones, and after squeezing, pound them well together in a 
mortar, with four ounces of loaf-sugar, the yolks of six 
e«r«rs, and eight ounces of fresh butter. Fill the patty-pans 
half full. 

Oranje cheesecakes are done the same way, only you 
must boil the peel in two or three waters to take out the 
bitterness ; or make them of orange marmalade well beat* 
en in a mortar. 

Orange Cheesecakes. 

When you have blanched half a pound of almonds, beat' 
them very fine, with orange-floAirer water, and half a pound 
of fine sugar beaten and sifted, a pound of butter that has 
been melted carefully without oiling, and which must be 
nearly cold before you use it : then beat the yolks of ten, 
and whites of four eggs ; pound two candied oranges, and a 
fresh one with the bitteriiess boiled out, in a mortar, till as 
tender as marmalade, without lumps; and beat the whole 
together, and put into pattypans. 

Potatoe Cfieesecakes. 

Boil six ounces of potatoes, and four ounces of lemon- 
peel ; beat the latter in a marble mortar, with four ouncei? 
of sugar : then add tlie potatoes, beaten, and four ounces 
of butter melted in a Hitle creana. When well mixed, let 
it stand to grow cold. Put crust in pattypans, and rather 
■more than half fill them. Bake in a quick oven half an 
hour ; siftin?; some double-refined sugar on them when go- 
3}g to the oven. 

This quantity will make a dozen. 

Almond Cheesecakes. 

Blanch and pound four ounces of almonds, aod a few 
iMtter, with a spoonful of water; then add four ounces of 
sugar pounded, a spoonful of cream, and the whites of two 
eggs well beaten, mix all as quick as possible : put into 
Very small pattypans, and bake in a pretty warm oveti 
Under twenty minutes. 

Another way. — Blanch and pound four ouBces of al- 
in«a<%, wiih a little orange-flower, or rose-water; tbe^ 



VEGETABLES. \73 

stir in the yolks of six, aud whites of three eggs, well beat- 
eo, five ounces of butter warmed, the peel of a lemon gra- 
ted, and a little of the juice ; sweeten with fine su-rar. 
When well mixed, bake in a delicate paste, in small pans. 
Another waif. — Press the whey from as much curd as 
will make two dozen small ones ; then put it on the back 
of a sieve, and with half an ounce of butter rub it tlirough 
with the back of a spoon; put to it six yolks, and three 
whites of eggs, and a few bitter almonds pounded witli as 
much sugar as will make the curd properly sweet ; mix 
with it the rind of a lemon grated, aud a glass of brandy. 
Put apufF-paste into the pans, and ten minutes will bake 
fhera. 



PART rii. 



TEGETABLES. 

Ohservations o?i dressins; Ves^etables, 



"ft 



V^EGETABLES should be carefully cleaned from iii= 
sects, and nicely washed. Drain them the moment they 
are done enough. If overboiled, they lose their beauty 
and crispness. Bad cooks sometimes dress them with 
meat ; which is wrong, except carrots with boiling beef. 
To boil Vegetables green. 

Be sure the water boils when you put them in. Make 
them boil very fast. Don't cover, but watch them ; and 
if the water has not slackened, you may be sure they are 
done when they begin to sink. Then take them out imme- 
diately, or the colour will change. Hard water, esj>e- 
eially if chalybeate, spoils the colour of such vegetables 
as should be green. 

To boil them green in hard water, put a tea-spoonful of 
salt of wormwood into the water when it boils, before the 
vegetables are put in. 

To keep green Peas. 

Shell, and put them into a kettle nf water when it boils; 
give them two or three warms only and pour them iuto a 



174 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

colander. When the water drains off, turn them out on a 
dresser covered with cloth, and pour them ou a lother 
cloth to dry perfectly. Then bottle them in wide mouth- 
ed bottles ; leaving only room to pour clarified mutton su- 
et upon them an inch thick, and for the cork. Rosin it 
down; and keep it in a cellar or in the earth, as will be 
directed for gooseberries under the head of keeping for 
Winter. — When they are to be used, boil them till tender, 
with a bit of butter, a spoonful of su^^ar, and a bit of mint. 

Anotlur tvaij. — Shell, scald, and dry them as above : 
put them on tins or earthen dishes in a cool oven once or 
twice to harden. Keep them in paper bags hung up in the 
kitchen. When they are to be used, let them lie an hour 
in water; then set them on with cold water and a bit of 
butter, and boil them till ready. Put a sprig of dried 
mint to boil with them. 

Boiled Peas 
Should not be overdone, nor in much water. Chop sonic 
scalded mint to garnish them, and stir a piece of butter in 
with them. 

To stew green Peas. 

Put a quart of peas, a lettuce and an onion both sliced, a 
bit of butter, pepper, salt, and no more water than hangs 
round the lettuce from washing. Stew them tAvo hours 
very gently. When to be served, beat up an egg, and 
stir it into them : or a bit of flour and butter. 

Some think a tea-spoonful of white powdered sugar is an 
improvement. Gravy may be added, but then there will 
be less of the flavour of the peas. Chop a bit of mint, and 
stew in them. 

To stew old Peas. 

Steep them in water all night, if not line boilers ; other- 
wise only half an hour : put them into water enough just 
to cover them, with a good bit of butter, or a piece of beef 
or pork. Stew them very gently till the peas are soft, and 
the meat is tender ; if it is not salt meat, add salt and a 
little pepper. Serve them round the meat. 
To dress Artichokes. 

Trim a few of the outside leaves off, and cut the stalk 
even. If young, half an hour will boil them. They are 
better for being gathered two or three days first. Serve 



VEGETABLES. llS 

tbem uitb melted butter in as mrxuy small cups as there 
are artichokes, to help with each. 

Artichoke Bottoms. 

If dried, they must be soaked, then stewed in weak gra- 
Ty, and served with or vvithout forcemeat in each. Or 
tiiey may be boiled in milk, and served with cream-sauce ; 
or added to ragout?, French pies, &:c. 
Je rusa km A rtich oles 

Must be taken up the moment they are done, or they 
will be too soft. 

They may be boiled plain, or served with white fricas^. 
see-sauce. 

To siew Cucumbers. 

Slice them thick ; or halve and divide them into two 
lengths; strew some salt ai?d pepper, and sliced onions; 
add a little broth, or a bit of butter. Simmer very slow- 
ly ; and before serving, if no butter was in before, put some, 
and a little flour ; or if there was butter in, only a litde 
flour, unless it wants richness. 

Another way. — Slice the onions, and cut the cucumbers 
large ; flour them, and fry them in some butter ; ther> 
pour on some good broth or gravy, and stew tbem till done 
enough. Skim ofTthe fat. 

To stew onions. 

Peel large onions ; fry gently of a fine brown, but do 
not blacken them; then put them into a small stew-pan. 
with a little weak gravy, pepper, and salt ; cover and stew 
two hours gently. They should be lightly floured at 
first. 

Roast onions 
Should be done with all the skins on. They eat well 
alone, with only salt and cold butter; or with roast pota- 
toes ; or with Ijeet-roots. 

To stciv Celery. 

Wash six heads, and strip off their outer leaves ; either 
halve, or leave them whole, according to their size : cut 
into lengths of four inches. Put them into a stew-pan with 
a cup of broth, or weak white gravy : stew till tender; then 
add two spoonfuls of cream, and a little flour a.id butter 
seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and simmer ali 
together. 



i7& DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

To boil Cauliflowers. 

Choose those that are close and white. Cut off the 
green leaves, and look carefully that there ai*e no cater- 
pillars about the stalk. Soak an hour in cold water ; then 
boil them in milk and water; and take care to skim the 
sauce-pan, that not the least foulness may fall on the 
flower, it must be served very white, and rather crimp. 
Cautijioivcr in white Sauce. 

Half boil it; then cut it into handsome pieces, and lay 
them in a stew-pan with a little broth, a bit of mace, a little 
salt, and a dust of white pepper; simmer half an hour ; 
♦hen put a little cream, butter, and flour ; shake, and sim- 
mer a few minutes, and serve. 

To dress Caulijioiver and Parmesan. 

Boil a cauliflower ; drain it on a sieve, and cut the stalk 
80 that the flower will stand upright about two inches 
above the dish. Put it into a stew-pan, with a little white 
sauce ; let it stew till done enough, which will be but a 
few minutes ; then dish it with the sauce round, and put 
Parmesan grated over it. Brown it with a salamander. 
To dress Brocoli. 

Cut the heads w ith short stalks, and pare the tough skin 
off them. Tie the small shoots into bunches, and boil 
them a shorter time than the heads. Some salt must be put 
into the water. Serve with or without toast. 

Spinach 
Requires great care in washing and picking it. When 
that is done, throw it into a sauce-pan that will just hold it, 
sprinkle it with a little salt, and cover close. The pan 
must be set on the fire, and well shaken. When done, 
beat the spinach well with a small bit of butter : it must 
come to table pretty dry : and looks well if pressed into a 
tin mould in the form of a large leaf, which is sold at the 
tin-shops. A spoonful of crram is an improvement. 
To dress Beans. 

Boil tender, with a bunch of parsley, which must bft 
chopped to serve witli them. Bacon or pickled pork 
must be served to eat with, but not boiled with them. 
Fricasseed Windsor Beans. 

When grown large, but not mealy, boil, Manch, and lay 
them in a white sauce ready-hot : just heat them through 



y EGETABLES. 177 

in it, and serve. If any are not of a fine green, do not use 
them for this dish. 

French Beans. 

String, and cut .hera into four or eight ; the last looks 
best. Lay them in salt and water ,• and when the sauce- 
pan boils, put them in with some salt. As soon as they are 
done, serve them immediateljito preserve the green colour. 

Or when half-done, drain the w ater off, and put them in- 
to two spoonfuls of broth strained ; and add a little cream, 
butter, and flour, to finish doing them. 

To slew red Cabbage. 

Slice a small, or half a large, red cabbage ; wash and 
put it into a sauce-pan with pepper, salt, no water but 
what ham s about it, and a piece of butter. Stew till 
quite tender; and when going to serve, add two or three 
spoonfuls of vinegar, and «ive one boil over the fire. 
Serve it for cold meat, or with sausa^jes on it. 

Another way. — Shred thecabbaae; wash it and put it 
over a slow fire, with slices of onion, pepper, and salt, and 
a little plain gravy. When quite tender, and a few min- 
utes before serving, add a bit of butter rubbed with flour, 
and two or three spoonfuls of viuei:ar, and boil up. 

Another. — Cut the cabbage veiy thin; and put it into 
the stew-pan with a small slice of ham, and half an ounce 
of butter, at the bottom, half a pint of broth, and a gill of 
vinegar. Let it stew covered three hours. When it is 
very tender, add a little more broih, salt, pepper, and a 
table-spoonful of pounded sugar. Mix these well, and 
boil them all till the liquor is wasted ; then put it iato the 
disli, and lay fried sausaees on it. 
Mushrooms. 

The cook should be perfectly acquainted with the dif- 
ferent sorts of things called by this name by ignorant 
people, asthe death of many persons has been occasioned 
by carelessly using the poisonous kinds. 

The eatable mushrooms first appear very small, and of 
a rou.'d form, on a little stalk. They grow very fast, and 
the upper part and stalk ry^e white. As the size increases, 
the under partgradualh ope'is, and shows a frm^red fur of 
a very fine salmon-eoloir ; which contiMiirs more or less 
till the mushroom has gained some size, and then turns to 



17i> DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

a dark brown. These marks should be attended to, vid 
likewise whether the skin can be easily parted from the 
edges and middle. Those that have a white or yellow 
fur should be carefully avoided, though many of them 
have the same smell (but not so strong) as the right sort. 
To stew Mvshrooms. 

The large buttons are best, and the small flaps while 
the fur is still red. Rub the large buttons with salt and 
a bit of flannel ; cut out the fur, and take off the skiu 
from the others. Sprinkle them with salt, and put into a 
steM-pan with some pepper-corns : simmer slowly till 
done ; then put a small bit of butter and flour, and two 
spoonfuls of cream; give them one boil, and serve with 
sippets of bread. 

To stew Son-elfor Fricandcau and roast Meat. 

Wash the sorrel ; and put it into a stone jar, with no 
more water than hangs to the leaves. Simmer it as slow 
as you can ; and when done enough, put a bit of butter, and 
beat it well. 

A French Salad, 

Chop three anchovies, a shalot, and some parsley, small ; 
put them into a bowl with two table-spoonfuls of vine«:ar, 
one of oil, a little mustard, and salt. When well mixed, 
add by degrees some cold roast or boiled meat in vcn/ 
thin slices; put in a few at a time not exceeding two or 
three inches long. Shake them in the seasoning, and then 
put more; cover tlie bowl close, and let the salad be pre- 
pared three hours before it is to be eaten. Garnish with 
parsley, and a few slices of the fat. 
A Lobster Salad. 

Make a salad, and put some of the red part of the lob- 
ster to it. cut. This forms a pretty contrast to the white 
and green of the vegetables. Don't put much oil, as shell- 
fish absorb the sharpness of vinegar. Serve in a dish, not 
a bowl. 

To boil Potatoes. 

Set them on a fire, without paring them, covered witli 
cold water; let them half boil then t])row some salt in, 
and a pint of cold water, and let them boil airain till al- 
most done. Pour off the water ; and put a clean cloth over 
them and then the saucepan-cover, and set tliem by the 



VEGETABLES. 179 

fire to steam till ready. Maoy persons prefer steamers. 
Potatoes look best when the skin is peeled, not cut. 

Do new potatoes the same ; but be careful they are ta- 
ken off in time, or they will be watery. Before dressing, 
rub off the skin with a cloth and salt, andthen wash. 
To broil Potatoes. 

Parboil, then slice and broil them. Or parboil, and 
then set them whole on the gridiron over a very slow 
fire ; and when thoroughly done, send them up with their 
skins on. This last way is practised in many Irish fami- 
lies. 

To roast Potatoes. 

Half-boil, take oft' the thin peel, and roast them of a 
beautiful brown. 

To fry Potatoes. 

Take the skin oft' raw potatoes, slice, and fry them, 
either in butter or thin batter. 

To mash Potatoes. 

Boil the potatoes, peel tliem, and break them to paste ; 
tlien to two pounds of them, add a quarter of a pint of 
milk, a little salt, and two ounces of butter, and stir it all 
well over the fire. Either serve them in this manner; or 
place tliem on the dish in a form, and then brown the top 
with a salamander : or in scallops. 

To boil Squashes. 

Cut them in halves and clean away the seeds. Put 
rhem into enough boiling water to cover them and throw- 
in a table spoonful of salt. When sufficiently done to pulp 
easily, pour off the water, and mash them with a wooden 
ladle. Add salt and butter. "When dished, dust over 
some black pepper. 

Carrots 
Require a good deal of boiling : when young, wipe off the 
skin after they are boiled ; when old, boil them with tlie 
salt meat, and scrape them first. 

To stew Carrots. 

Half-boil, then nicely scrape, and slice them into a 
stew-pan. Put to tliem half a tea-cupful of any weak 
broth, some pepper and salt, and half a cupful of cream; 
simmer 'hem till they are very tender, but not broken. 
Before serHug, iiib a very little flour, with a bit of butter, 



180 DOMESTIC COOKEliy. 

and warm up with them. If approved, chopped parsley 
may be added tea minutes before served. 
To tnash Parsnips. 

Boil them tender; scrape, then mash them into a stew- 
pan with a little cream, a good piece of butter, and pepper 
and salt. 

Fricassee of Parsnips, 

Boil in milk till they are soft. Then cut them length- 
ways into bits two or three inches long; and simmer in a 
white sauce, made of two spoonfuls of broth, a bit of mace, 
half a cupful of cream, a bit of butter, and some flour, pep- 
per, and salt. 

Beet-roots 
Make a very pleasant addition to winter-salad ; of which 
they may agreeably form a full half, instead of being on- 
ly used to ornament it. This root is cooling, and very 
wholesome. 

It is extremely good boiled, and sliced with a small 
quantity of vinegar, or stewed with whole onions, large or 
small, as follows : 

Boil the beet tender with tlie skin on ; slice it into a 
stew-pan with a little broth, and a spoonful of vinegar ; 
simmer till the gra\y is tinged with the colour; then put 
it into a small dish, and make a round of the button-onions, 
first boiled till tender; take off the skin just before serv- 
, ing, and mind they are quite hot, and clear. 

Or roast three large onions, and peel off the outer skins 
till thej" look clear ; and serve the beet-root stewed round 
them. 

If beet-root is in the least broken before dressed, it parts 
with its colour, and looks ill. 

Frying Herbs. 

Clean and drain a good quantity of spinach-leaves, two 
large handfuls of parsley, and a handful of green onions. 
Chop the parsley and onions, and sprinkle them among 
the spinach. Set them all on to stew with some salt, and 
a bit of butter the size of a walnut : shake the pan when 
it begins to grow warm, and let it be closely covered over 
a slow stove till done enough. It is served with slices of 
broiled calves' liver, small rashers of bacon, and eggs 
fried ; the latter on the herbs, the other in a sep;arate 
dish. 



VEGETABLES. 181 

Sea Cale 
Must be boiled very whi'e, and served on toast like as- 
paragus. 

To preserve several Vegetables to cat in the Winter. 

For French beans, pick them young, and throw in.o a 
litile wooden ke^ a layer of theni three inches deep ; then 
sprinkle them with salt, put another layer of beans, and 
do the same as high as you think proper alternately with 
salt, bvit not too much of this. Lay over them a plate, or 
cover of wood, that will go into the keg, and put a hea- 
vy stone on it. A pickle will rise from the beans and 
salt. If they are too salt, the soaking and boiling will not 
be sufficient to make them pleasant to the taste. When 
they are to be eaten, cut, soak, and boil them as if fresh. 

Carrots, Parsnips, and Beet-roots, should be kept in 
layers of dry sand for winter use ; and neither they nor 
potatoes should be cleared from the earth. Potatoes 
should be carefully kept from frost. 

Store-onions keep best hung up in a dry cold room. 

Parsley should be cut close to the stalks ; and dried in 
a warm room, or on tins in a Ytry cool oven; it preserves 
its flavour and colour, and is very useful in winter. 

Small close Cabbages, laid on a stone floor before the 
frost sets in, will blanch and be very fine, after many weeks 
keeping. 

PICKLES. 

Rules to be observed with Pickles. 

Keep them closely covered ; and have a wooden spoon, 
with holes, tied to each jar ; ail metal being improper. 
They should be well kept from the air; the large jars be 
seldom opened , and sm.all ones, for the different pickles 
in use should be kept for common supply, into which what 
is not eaten may be returned, and the top closely cover- 
ed. 

Acids dissolve the lead that is in the tmuing of sauce- 
pans. When necessary to boil vinegar, do it in a stone 
jar, on tlie hot hearth. Pickles should never be put into 
glazed jars, as salt and vinegar penetrate the glaze, which 
is poisonous. 

Lemon Pickle. 

Wipe six lemons, cut each into eight pieces ; put o 



102 BOM-ESTIC COOKERY. 

them a pound of salt, six large cloves of garlic, two oun- 
ces of horse-radisii sliced tliin, likewise of cloves, mace, 
nutmeg, and Cayenne, a quarter of an ounce each, and 
two ounces of flour of mustard ; to these put two quarts 
of vinegar. Boil a quarter of an hour in a well-tinned 
sauce-pan ; or, which is better, do it in a strong jar, in a 
kettle of boiling water; or set tliejar on the hot hearth till 
done. Set the jar by, and stir it daily for six weeks; 
keep tlie jar close covered. Put it into small bottles. 
Indian Pickle. 

Lay a pound of white ginger in water one night ; then 
scrape, slice, and lay it in salt in a pan till the other ingre- 
dients shall be ready. 

Peel, slice, and salt a pound of garlic three days, then 
put it in the sun to drj-. Salt and dry long pepper in the 
same way. 

Prepare various sorts of vegetables thus : 

Quarter small white cabbages, salt three days, squeeze, 
and set them in the sun to dry. 

Cauliflowers cut in their branches ; take off the greea 
from radishes ; cut celery in three-inch lengths ; ditto 
young French beans whole. Apples and cucumbers, choose 
of the least seedy sort ; cut them in slices, or quarters if 
not too large. AH must be salted, drained, and dried in 
the sun, except the latter : over which you must pour boil- 
ing vinegar, and in twelve hours drain them, but no salt 
must be used. 

Put the spice, garlic, a quarter of a pound of mustard- 
iiced, and as mucjfi vinegar as you think enough for the 
quantity you are to pickle, into a large stone jar, and one 
ounce of turmeric, to be ready against the vegetables 
shall be dried. When they are ready, observe the follow- 
ing directions : Put some of them into a two-quart stone 
jar, and pour over tlicm one quart of boiling vinegar, 
^ext day take out those vegetables ; and w^hen drained, 
put them into a large stock jar, aud boiling the vinegar, 
pour it over some more of the vegetables ; let them lie a 
night, and do as above. Thus proceed till you have 
cleansed each set from the dust which must inevitably fall 
an them by being so long in doing ; then, to every gallon 
of vinegar put two ounces of flour of mustard, mixing, bv 



PICKLES 188 

degrees, ^\^th a little of it boiling-hot. The whole of the 
vinegar should have been previously scalded, but set to 
be cool before it was put to the spice. Stop the jar tight. 

This pickle will not be ready for a year, but you may 
make a small jar for eating in a fortnight, only by giving 
the cauliflower one scald in water, after salting and drying 
as above, but without the preparative vinegar ; then pour 
the vinegar, that has the spice and garlic, boiling-hot over. 
If at any time it be found that the vegetables have not 
swelled properly ; boiling the pickle, and pouring it over 
them hot, will plump them. 

Melan Mangoes. 

There is a particular sort for this purpose, which the 
gardeners know. Cut a square small piece out of one 
side,and through that take out the seeds, and mix with them 
mustard-seeds and shred garlic ; stuff the melon as full as 
the space will allow, and replace the square piece. Bind 
it up with a small new pack-thread. Boil a good quantity 
of vinegar, to allow for wasting with peppers, salt, ginger, 
and pour boiling hot over the mangoes four successive 
days; the last, put flour of mustard, and scraped horse- 
radish, into the vinegar just as it boils up. Stop close. 
Observe that there is plenty of vinegar. All pickles are 
spoiled if not well covered. Mangoes should be done 
soon after they are gathered. Large cucumbers, prepared 
as mangoes, are excellent, and come sooner into eating. 

Mark, the greater number of times boiling vinegar is 
poured over either sort, the sooner it will be ready. 
Pickled Lemons, 

They should be small, and with thick rinds ; rub them 
with a piece of flannel ; then slit them half down in four 
quarters, but not through to the pulp ; fill the slits with 
salt hard pressed in, set them upright in a pan for four or 
five days, until the salt melts ; turn them thrice a-day in 
their own liquor, until tender; make enough pickle to co- 
ver them, of vinegar, the brine of the lemons, Jamaica 
pepper, and ginger; boil and skim it; when cold, put it 
to the lemons, with two ounces of mustard-seed, and two 
cloves of garlic to six lemons. When the lemons are used, 
the pickle will be useful in fish or other sauces. 

€12 



184 DOMESTIC COOKERY, 

Olives 
Are of three kinds, Italian, Spanish, and French, of differ- 
ent sizes and flavour f each sorts should be firm, though 
Bome are most fleshy. 

Preserve them from the air. 

Pickled Onions, 

In the month of September, choose the small white 
roimd onions, take off the bro\t^n skin, have ready a very 
nice tin stew-pan of boiling water, throw in as maJiy onions 
as will cover the top ; as soon as they look clear on the 
outside, take them up as quick as possible with a slice, and 
lay tJiem on a clean cloth ; cover them close with another, 
and scald some more, and so on. Let them lie to be cold., 
then put them in a jar, or glass wide-mouth bottles, and 
pour over them the best white wine vinegar, just hot, but 
not boiling. When cold, cover them. Should the outer 
§kin shrivel, peel it off. They must look quite clear. 
To pickle Cucumbers and Onions sliced. 

Cut them in slices, and sprinkle salt over them : next 
day drain them for five or six hours ; then put them into 
a stone jar, pour boiling vinegar over them, and keep them 
in a warm place. The slices should be thick. Repeat 
the boiling vinegar, and stop them up again instantly ; and 
«o on till green ; the last time put pepper and ginger. Keep 
it in small stone jars. 

To pickle ycttng Cucumbers, 

Choose nice young ones, spread them on dishes, salt 
them and let them lie a week — drain them, and, putting 
i-hem in a jar, pour boiling vinegar over them. Set them 
near the fire, covered with plenty of vine leaves ; if they 
do not become a tolerably good green, pour the vinegar 
into another jar, set it over the hot hearth, and when it 
^!;oils, powT it over them again, covering with fresh leaves ; 
and thus do till they are of as good a colour as you -Wish ; 
oe careful not to use brass or bell-metal vessels, wlricb, 
^vhen vinegar is put into them, become highly poisonous. 
To pickle Walnuts. 

"When they inll bear a pin to go into them, put a brine 
of salt and water boiled, and strong enough to bear an egg 
on them, being quite cold first. It must be well skiaimcd 
whilp boilings Iwet Aem soak six days ; then change the 



PICKLES. 1S5 

brine, let them stand six more ; then drain them, and pour 
over them in a jar a pickle of the best white wine vinegar, 
ivith a good quantity of pepper, pimento, ginger, mace,, 
cloves, mustard-seed, and horse-radish ; all boiled together, 
but cold. To every hundred of walnuts put six spoonfuls 
of mustard-seed, and two or three heads of garlic or shalot, 
but the latter is least strong. 

Thus done, they will be good for several years, if close 
covered. The ^ir will soften them. They willnot.be 
fit to eat under six montlis. 

The pickle will serve as good ketchup, when the wal' 
nuts are used. 

Another 7vay> — Put them into a jar, cover them with 
the best vinei>ar cold, let them stand four months ; then 
pour off the pickle, and boil as much fresh vinegar as will 
cover the walnuts, adding to every three quarts of vinegar 
one quarter-pound of best mustard, a stick of horse-radish 
sliced, one half-ounce of black pepper, one half ounce of 
cloves, one ounce of ginger, one half-ounce of allspice, and 
a good handful of salt : pour the whole, boiling hot, upon 
the walnuts, and cover them close; they will be fit for use 
in three or four months. You may add two ounces of 
garlic, or shalot, but not boiled in the vinegar. 

Of the pickle in wliich the walnuts stood for the first 
four months, you may make excellent ketchup. 

An excellent way to pickle Mushrooms^ to preserve 
the flavour. 

Buttons must be rubbed with s bit of flannel and salt; 
and from the larger, take out the ra/ inside ; for when they 
are black they will not do, being too old. Throw a little 
salt over, and put them into a stew-pan with some mace 
and pepper ; as the liquor comes out, shake them well, and 
keep them over a gentle fire till all of it be dried into them 
a^rain ; then put as nmch vinegar into the pan as will cover 
them, give it one warm, and turn all into a glass or stone 
jar. They will keep two years, and are delicious. 
To pickle Red Cabbage. 

Slice it into a colander, and sprinkle each layer with 
salt ; let it drain two days, then put it into a jar, and pour 
boiling vinegar enough to cover, and put a few slices of red 
bpet«root; Observe -to choose the purple red cabbage.- 



\ZQ DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

Those who like the flavour of spice will boil it with the 
viuegar. Cauliflower cut in brancties, aud thrown iu after 
being salted, will look of a beautiful red. 
Mushroom Ketchup. 

Take the largest broad mushrooms, break them into an 
earthen pan, strew salt over, and stir them now and then 
for three days. Then let tiicm stand for twelve, till there 
is a thick scum over; strain, and boil the liquor with Ja- 
maica and black peppers, mace, ginger, a clove or two, and 
some mustard-seed. When cold, bottle it, and tie a blad- 
der over the cork ; in three months boil it again with some 
fresh spice, and it will then keep a twelvemonth. 
Mushroom Ketchup^ another way. 

Take a stew-pan full of the large-flap mushrooms, that 
are not worm-eaten, and the skins and fringe of those you 
have pickled ; throw a handful of salt among them, and 
set them by a slow, fire ; they will produce a great deal of 
liquor, which you must strain ; and put to it four ounces 
of shalots, two cloves of garlic, a good deal of pepper, gin- 
ger, mace cloves, and a few bay-leaves — boil and skim 
very well. When cold, cork close. In two mouths boil 
it up again with a little fresh spice, and a stick of horse- 
radish, and it will then keep the year; which mushroom 
ketchup rarely does, if not boiled a second time. 
Walnut Ketchup of the finest sort. 

Boil or simmer a gallon of the expressed juice of wal- 
nuts when they are tender, and skim it well ; then put in 
two pounds of anchovies, bones and liquor, ditto of shalots, 
one ounce of cloves, ditto of mace, ditto of pepper, and one 
clove of garlic. Let all simmer till the shalots sink : then 
put the liquor into a pan till cold ; bottle, and divide the 
spke to each. Cork closely, and tie a bladder over. 

It will keep twenty years, and is not good the first. Be 
very careful to express the juice at home ; for it is rarely 
unadulterated, if bought. 

Cockle Ketchup. 

Open the cockles, scald them in their own liquor ; add 
a little water w hen the liquor settles, if you have not 
enough ; strain through a cloth, then season with every 
savoury spice ; and if for brown sauce, add port, ancho- 
Tjes, and garlic — if for white, omit these, and put a glass of 



SWE^T DISHES. iSt 

sherry, lemon-juice and peel, mace, nutmeg, and white 
pepper. If for brown, burn a bit of sugar for colouring. 

It is belter to have cockles enough than to add water ; 
and they are cheap. 

To keep Capres. 

Add fresh vinegar that has been scalded, and become 
cold — and tie them close, to keep out the air, Avhich makes? 
fliem soft. 



PART Fill. 



SWEET DISHES, PRESERVES, 
SWEETMEATS, &c. 

SWEET DISHES^ 

Buttered Rice. 

^VASH and pick some rice, drain, and put it with some 
aew milk, enough just to swell it, over the fire; when ten- 
der, pour off the milk, and add a bit of butter, a little su- 
gar, and pounded cinnamon. Shake it, that it do not 
burn and serve. 

Souffle of Rice and Apple. 

Blanch Carolina rice, strain it, and sel it to boil in railkj 
with lemon-peel and a bit of cinnamon. Let it boil till 
the rice is dry ; then cool it, and raise a rim three inches 
high round the disli ; having egged the dish where it is put, 
to make it stick. Then e^^ tlie rice all over. I'ill the 
dish half-way up with a marmalade of apples; have ready 
the whites of four ego^s beaten to a fine froth, and put them 
over the marmalade : then sift fine sugar over it, and set 
it in the oveu, which should be warm enough to give it a 
beautiful colour. 

Snow-balls. 

Swell rice in milk, strain it ^fi", and having pared and 
cored apples, put tiie rice round them, tying each up in a 
cloth. Put a bit of lemon-peel, a clove, or cinnamon, in 
each, and boil them well. 

Lent Potatoes. 

Beat three or four ounces of almond?, and three orfou*- 



188 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

bitter, ivhen blanched, putting a little oraDge-flower wa- 
ter to prevent oiling ; add ei^^ht ounces of butter, four egffs, 
well beaten and strained, half a glass of raisin wine, and 
sugar to your taste. Beat all well till quite smooth, and 
grate in three Savoy biscuits. Make balls of the above 
with a little flour, the size of a chcsnut ; throAv them into a 
8tew-pan of boiling lard, and boil them of a beautiful 
yellow brown. Drain them on a sieve. 

Serve sweet sauce in a boat, to eat with tbem. 
A Tansey. 

Beat seven eggs, yolks and Avhites separately ; add a 
pint of cream, near the same of spinach-juice, and a little 
tansey juice gained by pounding in a stone mortar, a quar- 
ter of a pound of Naples biscuit, sugar to taste, a glass of 
white wine, and some nutmeg. Set all in a sauce-pan, just 
to thicken, over the fire ; then put it into a dish, lined with 
paste, to turn out and bake it. 

Puits (V Amour. 

Cut a fine rich puff-paste rolled thin, with tin shapes 
made on purpose, one size less than another, in a pyramid- 
ical form, and lay them so ; then bake in a modei'ate oven, 
that the paste may be done sufficiently, but very pale. 
Lay different coloured sweetmeats on the edges. 
A very nice Dish of Macaroni dressed sivect. 

Boil two ounces in a pint of milk, v»'ith a bit of lemon-peel, 
and a good bit of cinnamon, till the pipes are swelled to 
their utmost size without breaking. Lay them on a cus- 
tard-dish, and pour a custard over them hot. Serve cold. 
Floating Island, 

Mix three half pints of thin cream with a quarter of a 
pint ofrasin wine, a little lemon-juice, orarge-flower wa- 
ter, and sugar : put into a dish for the middle of the table, 
and put on the cream a froth, which may be made of rasp- 
berry- or currant-jelly. 

Another way. — Scald a sharp apple ; pulp it through a 
sieve. Beat the whites of two eggs \n\\\ sugar, and a spoon- 
ful of orange-flower water; mix in by degrees the pulp, and 
brat all together until you have a large quantity of froth ; 
serve it rn a raspberry cream ; or you may colour the 
froth with beet-root^ raspberry, currant-jelly, and set it or 
a white cream, having given it th<* flavour of lemon, su 
gar, and wine, as above ; or put the froth on a custard. 



SWEET DISHES. 189 

Flutnm€)y. 

Put three large handfuls of very small white oatmeal to 
steep a day and uight in cold water : then pour it ofFclear 
and add as much more water, and let it stand the same 
time. Strain it through a fine liair sieve, and boil it till 
it be as thick as hasty puddiner; stirring it well all the 
time. When first strained, put to it one large spoonful of 
white sugar, and two of orange flower water. Pour it into 
shallow dishes ; and serve to eat with wine, cider, milk, 
or cream and sugar. It is very good. 
Dutch FlunDuery. 

Boil two ounces of isinglass ia three half pints of water 
very gently half an hour ; add a pint of white wine, the 
juice of three, and the thin rind of one lemon, and rub a 
few lumps of sugar on another lemon to obtain the essence, 
and with them add as much more sugar as shall make it 
sweet enough; and having beaten the yolks of seven eggs, 
give them and the above, wiien mixed, one scald ; stir all 
the time, and pour it into a basin ; stir it till half cold ; 
then let it settle, and put it into a melon shape. 
Rice Flummery. 

Boil with a pint of new milk, a bit of lemon-peel, and 
cinnamon : mix with a little cold milk as much rice-flour 
as will make the whole of a good consistence, sweeten, 
and add a spoonful of peach-water, or a bitter almond bea- 
ten ; boil it, observing it don't Ijurn ; pour it into a shape 
or piut-basin, taking out the spice. When cold, turn the 
flummery into a dish, and serve Avith cream, milk, or cus^ 
lard round; or put a teacupful of cream into half a pint 
of new milk, a glass of white wine, half a lemon squeezed, 
and sugar. 

Firmity, 

To a quart of ready-boiled w heat, put by degrees two 
quarts of new milk, breaking the jelly, and then four oun- 
ces of currants picked clean, and washed ; stir them, and 
boil till they are done. Beat the yolks of three eggs, and 
a little nutmeg, with two or three spoonfuls of milk ; add 
this to the wheat ; stir them together while over the fire ; 
then sweeten, and serve cold in a deep dish. Some per- 
sons like it best warm. 

Curds and Cream. 

Put three or four pints of milk into a pan a little warm. 



190 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

and then add rennet. When the curd is come, lade it 
with a saucer into an earthen shape perforated, of any form 
you please. Fill it up as the whey drains off, without 
breaking or pressing the curd. If turned only two hours 
before wanted, it is very light ; but those who like it 
harder, may have it so, by making it eailier, and squeez- 
ing it. Cream, milk, or a whip of cream, sugar, wine, and 
lemon, to be put in the dish, or into a glass bowl, to serve 
with the curd. 

Another way, — To four quarts of new milk warmed, 
put from a pint to a quart of buUermilk strained, accord- 
ing to its sourness ; keep the pan covered until the curd 
be of firmness to cut three or four times across Avith a 
saucer as the whey leaves it ; put it into a shape, and fill 
up until it be solid enough to take the form. Serve with 
cream plain, or mixed with sugar, wine, and lemon. 
A Curd Star. 

Set a quart of new milk upon the fire with two or three 
blades of mace ; and when ready to boil, put to it the 
yolks and whites of nine eggs well beaten, and as much 
salt as will lie upon a small knife's point. Let it boil till 
the whey is clear; then drain it in a thin cloth, or hair 
sieve ; season it with susar, and a little cinnamon, rose- 
water, orange-flower water, or white wine, to your taste ; 
and put into a star form, or any other. Let it stand some 
hours before you turn it into a dish ; then put round it 
thick cream or custard. 

Blanc-mans^ c^ or Blanmnge, 

Boil two ounces of isinglass in three half pints of water 
half an hour : strain it to a pint and a half of cream ; 
SAveeten it, and add some peach-water, or a few bitter al- 
monds ; let it boil once up, and put it into what forms you 
please. If not to be very stiff, a little less isinglass will do. 
Observe to let the blamange settle before you turn it into 
the forms, or the blacks will remain at the bottom of them, 
and be on the top of the blamange when taken out of the 
moulds. 

An Excellent Trifle. 

Lay macarofne and ratafia-drops over the bottom of 
your dish, and pour in as much raisin-wine as they will 
suck up ; which when they have done, pour on them cold 
rich custard made with tnare eggs than directed in the 



SrlFEET SISHE9. ISl 

fore^oinfi: paojes, and some rice-flour. It must stand two 
or tiirce inciies thick; on that put a layer of raspberry 
jam, and cover the whole with a very high whip made the 
day before, of rich cream, the whites of two well bealea 
eggs, sugar, lemon-peel, and raisin w ine, well beat with a 
whisk, kept only to whipt sjllabubs and cream. If made 
the day before used, it has quite a different taste, and is 
solid and far better. 

Goosehcrry or Apple Trifle. 

Scald Such a quantity of either of these fruits, as, when 
pulped tjirough a sieve, will make a tliick layer at the 
bottom of your dish; if of apples, mix the rind of half a 
lemon grated fine ; and to both as much sugar as will be 
pleasant. 

Mix half a pint of milk, half a pint of cream, and the 
yolk of one egg : give it a scald over the fire, and stir it 
all the time ; don't let it boil ; add a little sugar only, and 
let it grow cold. Lay it over the apples with a spoon ; and 
then put on it a w hip made the day before, as for other 
Trifle. 

Chantilly Cake, or Cake Trifle. 

Bake a rice cake in a mould. When cold, cut it roun^ 
about two inches from the edge with a sharp knife, taking 
care not to perforate the bottom. Put m a thick custard, 
and some tea-spoonfuls of raspberry jam, and then put on a 
high w hip. 

Gooseberry Fool, 

Put the fruit into a stone jar, and some good Lisbon su- 
gar; set the jar on a stove, or In a sauce-pan of water over 
the fire; if the former, a large spconiiil of water should be 
added to the fruit. When it is done enough to pulp, press 
it through a colander ; have ready a sufficient quantity 
of new milk, and a tea-cup of raw cream, boiled together, 
or an egg instead of the latter and left to be cold; thea 
SMeeten it pretty well with fine Lisbon sugar, and mis: 
the pulp by degrees w ith it. 

Jpple Fool. 

Stew apples as directed for goosebernes, and then veel 
and pulp them. Prepare the milk, &c. and mix as be- 
fore. 



192 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

Orange Fool, 

Mix the juice of three Se\ ille orano^es, three eggs well 
beaten a pint of cream, a little nutmeg and cinnamon, 
and sweeten to your taste. Set the whole over a slow 
fire, and stir it till it becomes as thick as good melted but- 
ter, but it must not be boiled ; then pour it into a dish for 
eating cold. 

A Cream. 

Boil half a pint of cream, and half a pint of milk, a bit 
of lemoQ-peei, a few almonds beaten to paste, with a drop 
of water, a little sugar, orange-flower water, and a tea- 
spoonful of flour, having been rubbed down with a little 
cold milk, and mixed with the above. When cold, put a 
little lemon-juice to the cream, and serve it in cups or 
lemonade-glasses. 

An excellent Cream. 

Whip up three quarters of a pint of veiy rich cream 
to a strong froth, with some finely scraped lemon peel, 
a squeeze of the juice, half a glass of sweet wine, and 
sugar to make it pleasant, but not too sweet; lay it on a 
sieve or in a form, and next day put it on a dish, and 
ornament it with very light puff-paste biscuits, made in 
tia shapes the length of a finger and about two thick., 
over which sugar may be strewed, or a little glaze with 
isinglass. Or you may use macaroons, to line the edges 
of the dish. 

Burnt Cream. 

Boil a pint of cream with a stick of cinnamon, and some 
lemon-peel ; take it off tlie fire, and pour it very slowly 
into the yolks of four eggs, stirring till half cold ; sweeten, 
and take out the spice, <fcc. ; pour it into the dish ; when 
cold, strew white pounded sugar over, and brown it with a 
salamander. 

Another way. — Make a rich custard without sugar, 
boiling lemon-peel in it When cold, sift a good deal of 
sugar over the whole, and brown the top with a salaman- 
der. 

Sack Cream. 

Boil a pint of raw cream, the yolk of an egg well beat- 
en, two or three spoonfuls of white wine, sugar, and lemon- 
peel ; stir it over a gentle fire till it be as thick as ricTi 



SWEET DISHES. 193 

cream, and afterwards till cold ; then serve it in glasses, 
TVith long pieces of dry toast. 

Brandy Cream. 

Boil two dozen of almonds blanched, and pounded bitter 
almonds, in a little milk. When cold, add to it the yolks 
of five egos beaten well in a little cream, sweeten, and put 
to it two glasses of the best brandy ; and when well mixed, 
pour to it a quart of thin cream : set it over the fire, but 
don't let it boil ; stir one way till it thickens, then pour in- 
to cups, or low glasses. 

When cold it will be ready. A ratafia-drop may be 
put in each if you choose it. If you wish it to keep, scald 
the cream previously. 

Ratafia Cream. 

Boil three or four peach, or nectarine leaves, in a full 
pint of cream ; strain it ; and when cold, add the yolks of 
tiiree eggs beaten and straioed, sugar, and a large spoonful 
of brandy stirred quick into it. Scald till thick, stirring 
it all the time. 

Another Tvay. — Mix half a quarter of a pint of ratafia, 
the same quantity of mountain wine, the juice of two or 
three lemons, a pint of rich cream, and as much sugar as 
will make it pleasantly-flavoured. Beat it with a whisk, 
and put it into glasses. This cream will keep eight or 
ten days. 

Lemon Cream. 
Take a pint of thick cream, and put to it the yolks of two 
eggs well beaten, four ounces of fine sugar, and the thin 
rind of a lemon ; boil it up, thea stir it till almost cold ; 
put the juice of a lemon in a dish, or bowl, and pour the 
cream upon it, stirring it till quite cold. 

Yellow Lemon-cream, without cream. 

Pare four lemons very- thin into twelve large spoonfuls 
of water, and squeeze the juice on seven ounces of finely- 
pounded sugar; beat the yolks of nine eggs 7vell ; add 
the peels and juice beaten together for some time ; then 
strain it through a flannel into a silver or very nice block- 
tin sauce-pan ; set it over a gentle fire, and stir it one way 
till pretty thick, and scalding hot ; but not boiling, or it 
will curdle. Pour it into jelly glasses. A few lumps of 
sugar should be rubbed hard on the lemons before thev 



^i DOMESTIC COOKERTI. 

are pared, or after, as the peel will be so t?iin as not to take 
all the essence, and the sugar will attract it, and give a 
better colour and flavour. 

WhitC'leman Cream 
Is made the same as above ; only put the whites of the 
eggs in liea of the yolks, whisking it extremely well to 
iroth. 

Jmptrial Cream. 

Boil a quart of cream Avith the thin rind of a lemon, then 
stir it till nearly cold ; have ready in a dish or bowl that 
you are to serve in, the juice of three lemons strained with 
as much sugar as will sweeten the cream ; which pour into 
the dish from a large tea-pot, holding it high, and moving 
it about to mix with the juice. It should be made at least 
six hoars before it be served, and will be still better if a 
day. 

Almond Cream, 

Beat fou? ounces of sweet almonds, and a few bitter 
ifa a mortar, with a tea-spoonful of water to prevent oilingj.. 
both having been blanched. Put the paste to a quart of 
cream, and add the juice of three lemons sweetened ; beat 
it up with a whisk to a froth, which take off on the shallow 
part of a sieve ; fill glasses with some of the liquor and 
the froth, 

Siiow Cream, 

Put to a quart of cream the whites of three eggs well 
beaten, four spoonfuls of sweet wine, sugar to your taste, 
and a bit of lemon-peel : whip it to a froth, remove the 
peel, and serve in a dish. 

Coffee Cream, much admired. 

Boil a calf's foot in water till it m astes to a pint of jelly, 
clear of sediment and fat. Make a tea-cup of very strong 
coffee ; clear it with a bit of isinglass to be perfectly 
bright; pour it to the jelly, and add a pint oivcry good 
cream, and as much fine Lisbon sugar as is pleasant; 
give OOP boil up, and pour into the dish. 

It sliould jelly, but not be stiff. Observe that your 
coffee be fresh. 

Chocolate Cream. 

Scrape into one quart of thick cream, one ounce of the 
best chocolate, and a quarter of a pound of sugar j bo?l 



SWEET DISHES. l9i» 

and mill it ; when quite smooth, take it off, and leave U 
to be cold ; then ada the whites of nine eggs. Whisk ; 
and take up the froth on sieves, as others are done ; and 
serve the froth in glasses, to rise above some of the cream. 
Apple Creoun. 

Pare and core ten good apples; beat them in a mortar, 
with a pint of cream ; strain it into a dish ; and put su- 
gar, bread-crumbs, aud a glass of wine, to it. Stir it 
well. 

Excellent Orange Cream. 

Boil the rind of a Seville orange xevy tender ; beat it 
fine in a mortar : put to it a spoouful of the best brandy, 
the juice of an orange, four ounces of loaf sugar, and the 
yolks of four eg/s ; beat all together for ten minutes; then 
b} gentle degrees, pour in a pint of boiling cream; beat 
till cold ; put into custard-cups set into a deep dish of 
boiling Avater, and let them stand till cold again. Put at 
the top small strips of orange-paring cut thin, or preser- 
ved chips. 

Raspbeny Cream. 

Mash the fruit gently, and let them drain ; then sprin- 
kle a little sugar over, and that will produce more juice; 
then put the juice to some cream, and sweeten it; after 
which, if you choose to lower it with some milk, it will 
not curdle ; which it would, if put to the milk, before the 
cream ; Vut it is best made of raspberry-jelly, instead of 
jam, when the fresh fruit cannot be obtained. 

Another way. — Boil one ounce of isinglass-shavings ia 
tliree pints of cream, and new milk mixed, for fifteen min- 
utes, or until the former be melted ; strain it through a 
bah'-sieve into a basin ; when cool put about half a pint of 
raspberry -juice, or syrup, to the milk and cream ; stir it 
till well incorporated ; sweeten, and add a glass of bran- 
dy ; whisk it about till three parts cold ; then put it into 
a mould till quite cold. In summer use the fresh juice ; 
in winter, syrup of raspberries. 

Spinach Cream. 

Beat the yolks of eight eggs with a wooden spoon or a 

whisk ; sweeten them a good deal ; and put to them a stick 

of cinnamon, a pint of rich cream, three quartei-s of a pint 

of new milk; stiF it well; then add a quarter of a piot 

R 3 



496 OOMESTIC COOKERS'. 

of spinach-juice ; set it over a n^eiitle stove, aod stir il oul 
way constantly till it is as thick as a hasty pudding. Put 
icto a custard-dish some Naples biscuits, or preserved 
orange, iulongelices, and pour the mixture over them. It 
is to be eaten cold ; and is a dish either for supper, or fox 
a second course. 

Clouted Cream. 

String four blades of mace on a thread ; put them to a 
gill of new milk, and six spoonfuls of rose-^^ater; simmet 
a few minutes ; then by degrees stir this liquor strained in- 
to the yolks of two new eggs well beaten. Stir the whole 
into a quart of vert/ good cream, and set it over the fire j 
stir it till hot, but not boiling hot ; pour it into a deep 
dish, and let it stand twenty-four hours. Serve it in a 
cream dish, to eat with fi-uits. Many people prefer it 
without any flavour but that of cream ; in which case use 
a quart of new milk and the cream, or do it as the scalded 
cream. 

When done enough, a round mark will appear on the 
surface of the cream, the size of the bottom of the pan it i$ 
done in, w hich is called the ring ; and when that is seea, 
remove the pan from the fire. 

A Froth to set on Cream^ Custard, or Trifle, 
jvhich looks and eats ivelL 

Sweeten half a pound of the pulp of damsons, or any 
other sort of scalded fruit, put to it the whites of four eggs 
beaten, and beat tlie pulp with them until it will stand as 
high as you choose ; and bein«j put on the cream, &c. with- 
a spoon, it will take any form ; it should be rough, to imi' 
late a rock. 

A Cover for Sweetmeats. 

Dissolve eight ounces of double-refined sugar in three 
or lour spoonfids of water, and three or four drops of lemoif- 
juice; then put it into a copper untinued skillet; when it 
boils to be thick, dip the handle of a spoon in it, and put 
that into a pint-basin of water, squeeze the sugar from the 
spoon into it, and soon till you have all the sugar. Take 
a bit out of the water, and if it snaps, and is brittle when 
cold, it is done enough ; but only let it be three parts cold, 
then pour the water from the sugar, and bavins: a coppev 
fjbrm oiled well, run tho snsjer on it in the njauiicr of a 



SWEET DISHED 191 

maze, aad when cold you may put it on the dish it is to 
cover : but if on trial the sugar is uot brittle, pour off the 
vrater, aud retura it into the skillet, and boil ^t again li 
should look thick like treacle, but of a bright light gold- 
colour. It is a most elegant cover. 

Calf's Feet. Jelly. 

Boil two feet in two quarts and a pint of water till tiK 
feet are broken, and the water half- wasted ; strain it, and 
when cold, take oflf the fat, and reinove the jcUy from the 
sediment; then put it into a saucepan, witli sugar, raisiB 
wine, lemon-juice to your taste, and some lemon-peel. 
When the flavour is rich, put to it the wliites of five esgs 
w^ll beaten, and their shells broken. Set the saucepan on 
the fire, but don't stir the jelly after it bci^iris to warm. Let 
it boil twenty miiuites after it \ Iscs to a head ; then pour 
it through a flannel jelly-bag, first dipping the bag in hot 
water to prevent waste, and squeezing it quite dry. Run 
the jelly through and through until clear ; then put it into 
glasses or forms. 

The following mode will greatly faciliiate the clearing 
of jelly : When the mixture has boiled twenty minutes, 
throw in a tea-cupful of cold water; let it boil five minutes 
loHger; then take the sauce pan off the fire covered close, 
and keep it lialf an hour ; after which, it will be so clear 
as to need only once running tlirou^^h the bag, aod much 
waste will be saved. 

Observe, feet for all jellies are boiled so long by the 
people who sell them, that they are less nutritious ; they 
should be only scalded to take off the hair. The liquor 
will require greater care in removing the fat ; but the 
jelly will be far stronger, and of course allow more water. 
Note : jelly is equally good made of cow-heels nicely 
cleaned ; and as they make a stronger jelly, this observa- 
tion may be useful. 

Another way. — Boil four quarts of water with three 
calf '8 feet, or two cow-heels, that have been only scalded, 
till half wasted ; take the jelly from the fat and sediment, 
mix with it the juice of an orange and twelve lemoi^s, the 
peels of three ditto, the whites aud shells of twelve e^^i^^ 
brown sugar to taste, near a pint ofraisii wiae, one ounce 
of ct)riaader seeds, a quarter of aa ounce cf allspice, a bit " 



10$ - DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

of cinnamon, and six cloves, all bruised, after having pre- 
viously mixed them cold. The jelly should boil ijfteea 
minutes witliout stirring; then clear it throu.^h a flaimel 
bag. While running take a littl. jtlly, and mix with a tea- 
cupful of water, in which a bit of beet-root has been boiled, 
and run it through the bag when -ill the rest is run out; 
and this is to garnish the other jelly, bein^>: cooled on a 
phte ; but this is matter of choice. 1 his jelly has a very- 
fine high colour and flavour. 

Orange Jelly. 

Grate the rind of two Seville and two China oranges, 
and two lemons ; squeeze tt,e juice of three of each, and 
strain, and add the juice of a quarter of a pound of lump 
sugar, and a quarter of a pint of Mater, and boil f.ll it al- 
most candies. Have ready a quart of isinj^lass-jcll^ made 
with two ounces; put to i the syrup, and boil i once up; 
strain off the jelly, and let it stand to settle as above, be- 
fore it is put into the mould. 

Hartshorn Jelly. 

Simmer eight ounces of hartshorn shavings vrith two 
quarts of water to one ; strain it, and boil it with the rinds 
of four China oranges and two lemons pared thin ; when 
eool, add the juice of both, half a pound of sugar, and the 
whites of six eg£s beaten to a froth : let the jelly have 
three or four boils without stirring and strain it through 
a jelly-bag. 

Cratiberry Jelly. 

Make a veiy strong isinglass-jelly. When cold, mix it 
with a double quantity of cranberry-juice pressed, and 
sweeten and boil it up ; then strain it into a shape. 

The sugar must be good loaf, or the jelly will not be 
clear. 

Cranberry and Rice Jelly. 

Boil and press the fruit, strain the juice, and by degrees 
mix into it as much ground rice as will, when boiled, 
thicken to a jell) ; boil it gently, stirring it, and sweeten 
to your taste. Put it in a basin or form, and serve to eat 
as the afore-directed jelly, with milk or cream. 
Apple Jelly, to se7r€ at table. 

Prepare twenty jrohlen pippins ; boil them in a pint 
and a half of water from the spring, till quite tender: then 



SWEET DISHES. 1^0 

Strain the liquor through a colander. To every pint put a 
pound of fine sugar ; add grated orange or lemon; then 
boil to a jelly. 

Another. — Prepare apples as before by boiling and 
straining; have ready half an ounce of isinglass boiled in 
a half pint of water to a jelly ; put this to the apple vater, 
and apple as straioed through a coarse sieve ; add sugar, 
a little lemon-juice and peel ; boil all together, and put in- 
to a dish. Take out the peel. 

To scald Apples, 

Wrap each in a vine-leaf, and pack them close in a nice 
saucepan ; and when full, pour as much water as will cover 
them. Set it over a gentle fire, and let them simmer slow- 
ly till done enough to take the thin skin off when cold. 
Place them in a dish, with or without milk, cream, orcus-- 
tard; if the latter, there should be no ratafia. 

Dust fine sugar over tlie apples. 

Stewed Golden Pippins. 

Scoop out the core, pare them very thin, and as you do 
it, throw them in water. For every pound of fruit, make 
half 1 pound of single-refined sugar into syrup, with a pint 
of water; when skimmed put the pippias in, and stew tili 
clear ; then grate leraou over, and serve in the s) rup. Be 
careful not to let them break. 

They are an elegant and good dish for a coraer or 
dessert. 

Black Caps. 

Halve and core some fine large apples, put them in & 
shallow pan, strew white sugar over, and bake them. 
Boil a glass of wine, the same of water, and sweeten it for 
sauce. 

Another way. — Take off a slice from the stalk end of 
some apples, and core without paring them. Make rea- 
dy as much sugar as may be sufficient to sweeten them, 
au I mix it with some grated lemon, and a few cloves in 
fine powder. Stuff the holes as close as possible with this, 
a':d turn the flat end down on a stew-pan! stt them on a 
very slow fire, with half of raisin wiiie, and the same of 
W'ter; oovor them close, and now and then baste thena 
w th the liquor; when done enough, black the tops with a 
salamander. 



200 DOMESTIC GOOKERy. 

Stewed Pears. 

Pare, and halve or quarter laroe pears according to their 
size ; throw them into water, as the skin is taJien off before 
they are divided, to prevent their turning black. Pack 
them round a block-tin stew-pan, and sprinkle as much su- 
gar over as will make them pretty sweet, and add lemon- 
peel, a clove or two, and some allspice cracked ; just cov- 
er them with water, and put some of the red liquor, as di- 
rected in another article. Cover them close, and stew 
three or four hours ; when tender, take them out, and pour 
the liquor from them. 

Baked Pears. 

These need not be of a fine sort; but some taste bet- 
ter than others, and often those that are least fit to eat raw. 
Wipe, but don't paie, and lay them on tin-plates, and bake 
them in a slow oven. When eooujih to bear it, liattea 
them with a silver-spoon. When done through, put them 
on a dish. They should be bated three or four times, 
and very gently. 

Orange Butter. 

Boil six hard eggs, beat them in a mortar with two 
ounces of fine su^ar, three ounces of butter, and two oun- 
ces of blanched almonds beat into a paste. Moisten with 
orange-flower water, and when all is mixed, rub it through 
a colander on a dish, and serve sweet biscuits between. 
Wine Roll. 

Soak a small roll in raisin wine till it will hold no more ; 
put it in the dish, and pour round it a custard, or cream, 
sugar, and lemon-juice. Just before it is served, spri- kle 
over it some nonpareil comfits; or stick a few blanched 
slit almonds into it. 

Sponge buiscuits may be used instead of the roll. 
To prepare Fruit for Children, afar more nholesoine way 
than in Pies and Puddings. 

Put apples sliced, or plnms, currants, gooseberries, «lx. 
into a stone jar, and sprinkle as much Lisbon sngar as ne- 
cessary among them ; set the jar on a hot hearth, or in a 
sauce-pan of water, and let it remain till the fruit is per- 
fectly done. 

Slices of bread, or rice, may be either stewed with the 
fVuit, or added when eaten ; the rice being plain boiled. 



SWEET DISHES. 201 

To prepare Ice for Iceing. 

Get a few pounds of ice, break it almost to powder, 
throw a large liaiidful and a half of salt amon^ it. You 
must prepare it in a part of the house where as little of 
the warm air comes as you can possibly contrive. The 
ice and salt being in a bucket, put your cream into an ice- 
pot, and cov er it ; immerse it in the ice, and draw that 
round the pot, so as to touch every possible part. In a 
few minutes put a spatula or spoon in, and stir it well, re- 
movino; the parts that ice round the edges to the centre. If 
the icecream, or water, be in a lorm, shut the bottom 
close, and move the whole in the ice, as you cannot use a 
spoon to that without danger of waste. There should be 
holes in the bucket, to let off the ice as it thaws. 

Note. When any fluid tends towards cold, the moving 
it quickly accelerates the cold ; and likewise, when any 
fluid is tending to heat, stirring it will facilitate its boiling. 
Ice Waters. 

Rub some fine sugar on lemon or oran?e, to give the 
colour and flavour, then squeeze tlie juice of either on its 
respective peel ; add water and susar to make a fine sher- 
bet, and strain it before it be put into the ice-pot. If orange, 
the greater proportion should he of the China juice, and 
only a little of Seville, and a small bit of the peel grated 
by the sugar. 

Currant or Raspberry Water Ice. 

The juice of these, or any other sort of feuit, being 
fl^ained by squeezing, sweetened, and mixed with water, 
will be ready for iceing. 

Ice Creams. 

Mix the juice of the fruits with as much sugar as will 
be wanted, before you add cream, which should be of a 
middling richness. 

Brown Bread Ice. 

Grate as fine as possible stale brown bread, soak a small 
proportion in cream two or three hours, sweeten and 
ice it. 

Ratafia Cream, 

Blanch a quarter of an ounce of bitter almonds, and 
-beat them with a tea-spoonful of water in a marble mortar; 
Ihen nib with the paste two ounces of lump-sugar, and' 



202 DOMFSTI€ COOKERV. 

simmer ten minutes with a tea-cup of cream, which add to 
a quart more of c "earn, and having strained, ice it. 
Colourings to stahi Jellies, Ices, or Cakes, 

For a beautiful red, boil Hfteen grains of cochineal in 
the finest powder, with a dram aiid a half of cream of tar- 
tar, in half a pint of water, very slowly, half an hour. 
Add in boiling" a bit of 'allum the size of a pea. Or use beet- 
root sliced, and some liquor poured over. 

For }vhite, use almonds finely powdered, with a little 
drop of water ; or use cream. 

For yellow, yolks of eggs, or a bit of safTron steeped in 
the liquor and squeezed. 

For ^rcf?i. pound spinach-leaves or beet leaves, express 
the juice, and boil in a tea-cupful in a sauce-pan of water 
to take off the rawness. 

Syllabub. 

Put a pint and a half of port or white wine into a bowl, 
nutmeg grated, and a good deal of sugar, then milk into it 
neai' two quarts of milk, frothed up. If the wine be not 
rather sharp, it will require more for this quantity of milk. 

Clouted cream may be put on the top, and pounded 
cinnamon and sugar. 

Another Syllabub. 

Put a pint of cider, and a glass of brandy, sugar, and 
nutmeg, into a bowl, and milk into it; or pour warm milk 
from a large tea-pot some hei -ht into it. 
A very fine Syllabub. 

In a lariic China bowl put a pint of port, and a pint of 
sherry, or rther white wine; sugar to taste. Milk 1 he 
bowl full. In twenty minutes time cover it pretty high 
with clouted cream ; grate over it nutmeg, put pounded 
cinnamon and nonpareil comfits. 
Junket. 

Put warm milk into a bowl; turn it with rennet; then 
put some scalded cream, sugar, and cinnamon, on the top, 
without breaking the curd. 

Everlasting, or Solid, Syllabubs. 

Mix a quart of thick raw cream, one pound of refined 
sugar, a pint and half of fine raisin wine, in a deep pan ; 
put to it the grated peel and the juice of three lemons. 
Jleat, or whisk it one way half an hour; then put it on a 



SWEET DISHES. 2^15 

s^eve with a bit of thin musliu laid smooth in the shallow 
€iid till next day. Put it iu glasses. It will keep good 
in a cool place tea days. 

Lemon Honeycomb, 

Sweeten the juice of a -lemon to your taste, and put it 
in the dibh that you serve it in. Mix the white of an egg 
that is beaten with a pint of rich cream, and a little sugar; 
whisk it, and as the froth rises, put it on the lemon-juice. 
Do It the day before it is to be used. 

Rice and Sago Milks 
Are made by washing the seeds nicely, and simmering 
with milk over a slow fire till sufficiently done. The 
former sort requires lemon, spice and sugar; the latter is 
good without any thing to lla^■our it. 

J pretty Supper Dish, 

Boil a tea-cupful of rice, in milk till tender : strain off 
the milk, lay the rice in little heaps on a dish, strew over 
ihem some finely powdered sugar and cinnamon, and put 
warm wine and a little butter into tlie dish. 
Savotfry Rice, 

Wash and pick some rice, stew it very gently in a small 
quantity of veal, or rich mutton broth, with an oniony a 
blade of mace, pepper, and salt. When swelled, but not 
boiled to mash, dry it on the shallow end of a sieve before 
the fire, and either serve it dry, or put it iu the middle 
of a dish, and pour the gravy round, having heated it. 
Car role of Rice. 

Take some well-picked rice, wash it well, and boil it 
five minutes in water, strain it, and put it into a stew-pan, 
with a bit of butter, a good slice of ham, and an onion. 
Stew it over a very gentle fire till tender; have ready % 
mould lined with very thin slices of bacon : mix the yolks 
of two or three eggs with the rice, and then line the bacon 
with it about hall" an inch thick; put into it a ras^out of 
chicken, rabbit, veal, of any thing else. Fill up the mould, 
and cover it close with rice. Bake it in a quick oven as 
hour, turn it over, and send it to table in a good gravy, or 
currj'-sauce. 

Rice Edging see page 136. 

Sabnagimdy 

Is a beautiful small dish, if in nice shape, and if the cO- 

S 



204 DOMESTIC COOKERlr. 

lours of the ingredients are varied. For this purpose 
chop separately the white part of cold chicken or veal, 
yolks of eggs Moiled hard, the whites of eggs, parsley, half 
a dozen anchoves, beet root, red pickled cabbage, ham and 
grated tongue, or any thing well-flavoured, and of a good 
colour. Some people like a small proportion of onion, 
but it may be better omitted. A saucer, large tea-cup, 
or any other base, must be put into a small dish; then 
make rows round it wide at bottom, and growing smaller 
towards the top ; choosing such of the ingredients for each 
row as will most vaiy the colours. At the top a little 
sprig of curled parsley may be stuck in ; or, without any 
thing on the dish, the salmagundy may be laid in rows, 
or put into the half-whites of eggs, which may be made to 
stand upright by cutting oft' a little bit at the round end. 
In the latter case, each half egg has but one ingredient. 
Curled butter and parsley may be put as garnish between. 
Macaroni as usually served. 

Boil it in milk, or a weak veal broth, pretty well fla- 
voured with salt. When tender put it into a dish without 
the liquor, and among it put some bits of butter and gra- 
ted cheeee, and over the top grate more, and a little more 
butter. Set the dish into a Dutch oven a quarter of an 
hour, but do not let the top become hard. 

Another way. — Wash it well, and simmer in half milk, 
and half broth of veal or mutton, till it is tender. To a 
Spoonful of this liquor, put the yolk of an egg beaten in a 
spoonful of cream ; just make it hot to tliicken, but not boil : 
put it over the macaroni, and then grate fine old cheese 
all over, and bits of butter. Brown witli tlie salamander. 

Another. — Wash the macaroni, then simmer it in a lit- 
tle broth, with a little pounded mace and salt. When 
quite tender, take it out of the liquor, lay it in a dish, 
grate a good deal of cheese over, then cover that with 
bread grated fine. Warm some butter without oiling, and 
pour it from a boat through a little earthen colander all 
over the crumbs, then put the dish in a Dutch oven to 
roast the cheese, and brown the bread of a fine colour. 
The bread should be in separated crumbs, and look light. 
Omlct. 

Make a batter of eggs and milk, and a very little flour ? 



SWEET DISHES. 205 

put to ft cliopped parsley, green ODions, or chives (the 
latter is best), or a very small quantity of shalot, a little 
pepper, salt, and a scrape or two of nutmeg. Make some 
butter boil in a small frying-pan, and pour the above i^at^ 
ter into it ; when one side is of a fine yellow brown, turn it 
and do the other. Double it when served. Some scraped 
leaii ham, or grated tongue, put in at first, is a very plea- 
sant addition. Four eggs will make a pretty sized oml»^t; 
but many cooks will use eight or ten. A small proportion 
of flour should be used. 

A good ileal of parsley should be used. 

Raraakins and omlet, though usually served in the 
course, would be much better if they were sent up after, 
that tliey might be eaten as hot as possible. 

Butter to serve as a little Dish. 

Roll butter in different forms ; either like a pine, and 
make the marks with a tea-spoon; or roll it in crimping 
rollers, v,'ork it through a colander, or scoop with a tea- 
spoon, and mix with grated beef, tongue, or ancho^des* 
Make a wreath of curled parsley, to garnish. 
Ramakins. 

Scrape a quarter of a pound of common, and ditto of 
best old cheese, ditto of good fresh butter ; then beat all in 
a mortar with the yolks of four eggs, and the inside of a 
small roll boiled in cream till soft ; mix the paste then with 
the whites of the cggt, previously beaten, and put into 
small paper paus made rather long than square, and bake 
in a Dutch oven till of a fine brown. They should be 
eaten quite hot. Some like the addition of a glass of white 
wine. 

The batter for ramakins is equally good over macaroni 
when boiled tender ; or on stewed brocoli, celery, or cauli- 
flower, a little of the gravy they have been stewed in be- 
ing put in the dish with them, but not enough to make the 
vegetable swim. 

Potted Cheese. 

Cut and pound four ounces of best cheese, one ounce and 
a half of fine butter, a tea-spoonful of white pounded su- 
gar, a little bit of mace, and a glass of white wine. Press 
it down in a deep pot. 

Roast Cheese^ to come up after Dinner, 

Gyate three ounces of fat cheese, mix it with the jolk«. 



206 - DOMESTIC COOK FRY. 

of two eggs, four ounces of grated bread, aod three ounces 
of butter ; beat the ^hole v/ell in a mortar, v»ith a dessert- 
spoonful of mustard, and a little salt and pepper. Toatt 
some bread, cut it into proper pieces, lay the paste as above 
thick upon them, put them into a IJutch oven covered 
with a dish, till hot through, remove the dish, and let the 
cheese brown a little. Serve cs hot as possible. 
Welch Rabbit. 
Toast a slice of bread on both sides, and butter it ; toast 
a slice of best cheese on one side, and lay that next ihi 
bread, and toast the other with a salamander ; rub mus- 
tard over, -and serve very hot, and covered. 
Cheese Toast. 
Mix some fine butter, made mustard, and salt, into a 
Hiass; spreafl it on fresh-made thiu toasts, and grate or 
scrape rich cheese upon them. 

Anchovy Toast. 
Bone and skin six or eight anchovies ; pound them to 
a mass with an ounce of fine butter till the colour is equal 
and then spread it on toast or rusks. 

Another way. — Cut thin slices ofbiead into any form, 
and fry them in clarified butter. Wash three anchovies 
split, pound them in a mortar with some fresh butter, rub 
them tiirough a hair sieve, and spread on the toast when 
cold. Then quarter and wash some anchovies, and lay 
them on the toast Garnish with parsley or pickles. 
To poach Eggs. 
Set a stew-pan of water on the fire ; when boiling, slip 
an egg, previously broken into a cup, into the water ; 
If hen the wliite looks done enough, slide an egg-slice under 
the e^^, and lay it on toast and butter, or spinach. As 
soon as enough are done, serve iiot. If not fresh-l?iid, they 
will not poach well, and without breaking. Trim the rag- 
ged parts of the whites, and make them look round. 
Buttered Eggs. 
Beat four or five eggs, yolk and white together, put a 
quarter of a pound of butter in a basin, and then put that 
in boiling water, stir it till melted, then pour that butter 
and the eggs into a sauce-pan ; keep a basin in your hand, 
just hoM the sauce-pan ia the other over a slow part of the 
firCj shaking it oae way, as it begins to warm ; pour it into 



9WSST DISHES. 207 

a basie and back, then hold it again over the fire, stirring it 
coiistaatly in the sauce-pan, and pouring it into the basin, 
more perfectly to mix the egg and butter, until they shall 
be hot without boiling. 

Serve on toasted bread ; or in a basin, to eat with salt 
fish, or smoked herrings. 

Scotch Eggs. 

Boil hard five pullet's eggs, and without removing the 
white, cover completely with a fine relishing forcemeat, 
in which, let scraped ham, bear a due proportion. Fry 
of a beautiful yellow brown, and serve with a good gravy 
in the dish. 

A Pepper-pot, 

To three quarts of water, put such vegetables as you 
choose; in summer, peas, lettuce, spinach, and two or 
three onions : in winter, carrot, turnip, onions, and celery. 
Cut them very small, and stCAv them with two pounds of 
neck of mutton, and a pound of pickled pork, till qui.e ten- 
der. Half an hour before serving, clear a lobster or crab 
from the shell, and put it into the stew. Some people 
choose very small suet dumplings boiled in the abeve* 
Season with salt and Cayenne. 

Instead of mutton, you may put a fowl. Pepper-pot 

may be made of various things, and is understood to be % 

proper mixture of fish, flesh, fowl, vegetables, and pulse. 

A small quantity of rice should be boiled with the whole. 

J dish of Frying Herbs and Liver. 

Prepare the frying herbs as has been directed among 
the vegetables, page 180: on which lay slices of liver 
fried a beautiful brown, and slices of bacon just warmed at 
the fire, and laid on each. On the outside part of the 
herbs lay eggs fried very nicely, and then trimmed round ; 
or they may be served on the herbs, and the liver gar- 
nished with the bacon separately. 

To preserve Suet a twelvemonth. 

As soon as it comes in, choose the firmest part, and pick 
free from skin and veins. In a very nice sauce-pan, set it 
at some distance from the fire, that it may melt without 
fry ins:, or it will taste. 

When melted, pour it into a pan of cold water. When 
in a hard cake, wipe it very dry, fold it in fine paper, and 
S 2 



268 DOMESTIC COOKERr. 

then in a linen bag, and keep it in a dry but not hot place. 
When used, scrape it fice, and it Avill make a fine crust, 
either with or without butter. 

SWEETMEATS. 

To great Fruits far preserving or pickling. 

Take pippins, apricots, pears, plums, peaches, while 
^ecn, for the first or radish-pods, French beans for the 
latter, and cucumbers for both processes : and put them, 
with vine-leaves under and over, into a Mock-tin preser- 
ring-pan, with spring-water to cover them, and then the 
tin cover to exclude all air. Set it on the side of a fire, 
and when they begin to simmer, take them off", pour off" the 
water, and if not green, put fresh leaves when cold, and 
repeat the same. Take them out carefully with a skim- 
mer r thej" are to be peeled, and then done according to 
the receipts for the several modes. 

To clarify Sugar for Sweetmeats. 

Break as much as required in large lumps, and put a 
pound to half a pint of water, in a bowl, and it will dissolve 
better than when broken small* Set it over the fire, and the 
well-whipt white of an eg«: ; let it boil up, and when rest- 
dy to run over, pour a little cold water in to give it a 
check ; but when it rises a second time, take it off the fire, 
and set it by in the pan for a quarter of an hour, during- 
which the foulness will sink to the bottom, and leave a 
black scum on the top, which take oft" gently with a skim- 
mer, and pour th€ syrup into a vcifsel very quickly from 
the sediment. 

To eandij any sort of FmiL 

When finished in the syrup, puk a layer into a new 
j^eve, and dip it suddenly into hot water, to take off the 
synip that hangs about it ; put it on a napkin before the 
fire to drain, and then do some more in the sieve. Have 
ready-sifted double-refined sugar, which sift over tlie fruit 
on all sides till quite wliite. Set it on the shallow end of 
sieves in a lightly-warm oven, and turn it two or three 
times. It must not be cold till dry. Watch it carefully, 
and it will be bcautifiil. 

To prepare Barberries for Tartlets. 

Pick barberries that have no stones, from the stalks, and 
to every pomid weigh three qnajters of a pound of lump- 



sugar; put the fruit into a stone }^\\ and either set it on a 
hot hearth, or in a sauce-pan of water, and let them sim- 
mer very slowly till soft; put thera and the sugar into a 
preserving pan, and boil them gently fifteen minutes. Use 
no metal but silver. 

Barberries in htmches. 

Have ready bits of flat Avhite wood, three inches long, 
and a quarter of an inch Avide. Tie the stalks of the fixiits 
on the stick from within an inch of one end to beyond the 
other, so as to make ihem look handsome. Simmer them 
in some syrup ivio successive days, covering them each 
time with it when cold. When they look clear they are 
simmered enough. The third day, do them like other 
candy fruit : see receipt for it above. 

A beautiful preserve of Apricots. 

When ripe, choose the finest apricots; pare them as 
thin as possible, and wei^li thera. Lay them in halves on 
dishes, with the holloAV part upwards. Have ready an 
equal weight of good loaf-sugar finely pounded, and strew 
it over them ; in the mean time break the stones, and blanch 
the kernels. When the fruit ]mi lain twelve hours, put it, 
with the sugar and juice, and also the kernels, into a pre- 
serving-pan. Let it simmer very gently till clear ; then 
take out the pieces of apricots singly as they become so ; 
put thera into small pots, and pour the syrup and kernels 
over them. The scum must be taken olF as it rises. Co- 
ver with brandy-paper. 

To preserve Apncofs in Jell}/. 

Pare the fiiiit verif thin, and stone it ; weigli an equal 
quantity of sugar in fine powder, and strew over it. IVext 
day boil very gently till they are clear, move them into a 
bowl, and pour the liquor over. The following day pour 
the liquor to a quart of apple liquor made by boiling and 
straining, and a pound of fine sugar ; let it boil quickly 
till it will jelly ; put the fruit into it, and give one boil, 
skim well, and put into small pots. 

To preserve green Apricots or Peaches. 

Lay vine or apricot leaves at the bottom of your pan, 
then fruit, and so alternately till full, the upper layer be- 
ing thick with leaves ; then fill with spring water, and 
cover down, that oo steam may come out. Set the pan at- 



^10 DOMESTIC COOKBRY. 

a distance from the fire, that in four or five hours they 
maj be only soft, but not cracked. Make a thin »} rup of 
some of the water, and drain the fmit. When both are 
cold, put the fruit into the pan, and the syrup to it ; put 
the pan at a proper distance from the fire till the apricots 
green, but on no account boil or crack ; remove them very 
carefully into a pan with the syrup for two or three days ; 
then pour off as much of it as will be necessary, and boil 
ivith more su^ar to make a rich syrup, and put a lit'le sli- 
ced ginger into it. When cold, and the thin syrup has all 
been drained from tlie fruit, pour the thick over it. The 
former will serve to sweeten pies. 

Apricots or Feachrs in Brandy. 
Wipe, weigh, and pick tlie fruit, and have ready a 
quarter of the weight of fine su^ar in fine powder. Put the 
fruit into an ice-pot that shuts very close ; throw the su- 
gar over it, and then cover the fruit with brandy. Be- 
tween the top and cover of the pot, put a piece of double- 
cap paper. Set the pot into a sauce-pan of water till the 
brandy be as hot as you can possibly bear to put your 
finger in, but it must not boil. Put the fruit into a jar, and 
pour the brandy on it. When cold, put a bladder over, 
and tie it down tight. 

To dry Peaches and Apricots in halves. 
Pare thin, and halve four pounds of fruit, weighing 
them after; pui them in a dish; strew among them three 
pounds of sugar in the finest powder. When it melts, set the 
iTuit over a stove to do very gently ; as each piece becomes 
tender, take it out, and put it into a china-bowl. When 
all are done, and the boiling heat a little abated, pour the sy- 
rup over them. Iq a day or two remove the synip, leaving 
•nly a little in each half. In a day or two more turn them, 
and so continue daily till quite dry, in the suu or a warm 
place. Keep in boxes with layers of paper. 
Apricot Cheese. 
Weigh an equal quantity of pared fruit and sugar, wet 
ihe latter a very little, and let it boil quickly, or the colour 
will be spoiled ; blanch the kernels, and add to it. Twen- 
ty or thirty minutes will boil it. Put it in small pots oi* 
cups half-filled. 

Orange Mannalade. 
Rasp the oranges, cut out the pulp, then boil the rinds 



SWEET3IEAT 211 

very tender, and beat fine in a niarbie mortar. Boil 
three pounds of loaf-sugar in a pint of water, skim it, and 
add a pound of the rind: boil fast till the syrup is very 
thick, but stir it carefully; then put a pint of the pulp and 
juice, the seeds having been removed, and a pint of apple 
liquor; boil all gently until well jellied, wliich it will be 
in about half an hour. Put it into small pots. 

Lemon marmalade do in the same way ; they are very 
good and elegant sweetmeats. 

Transparen t Mamialade. 

Cut the palest oranges in quarters, take the pulp out, 
and put it in a basin, pick out the seeds and skins. Let 
the outsides soak in Avater with a Uiile salt all night, 
then boil them in a good quantity of sprinii,- water till ten- 
der j drain, and cut them in very tliin slices, and put them 
to tiie pulp; and to every pound, a pound and a half of 
double refined sugar beaten fine ; boil them together twen- 
ty minutes, but be careful not to break the j-lices. If 
not quite clear, simmer five or six m.inutes longer. It 
must be stirred all the time very gently. When cold, put 
it into glasses. 

To Jill preserved Oranges ; a corner Disk. 

For five take a pound of ^NTaplesbicuits, some blanched 
almonds, the yolks of four eggs beaten, sugar to your taste, 
four ounces of nutter warmed : grate the biscuits, and mix 
with the above and some orange-flower-water. Fill pre- 
served oranges, and bake in a very slow oven. If you 
like them frosted, sift sugar over them as soon a? filled ; 
cthcrAvise wipe them. Custard to fill will do as w ell ; if 
so you need not bake the oranges, but put it in when be- 
come cold. 

JVhck Oranges carved. 

Cut on the rinds any shnpes you please with a pen- 
knife ; cut a bit oft near and round the stalk, and with an 
apple-scoop take all the pulp carefully out ; put them into 
salt and water two days, changing it daily ; boil them an 
hour or more in freph salt and water; drain them quite dry ; 
let them stand a night more in plain water, and then an- 
other nisht in a thin syrup, in which boil them the next 
day a ft:w minutes. Do this four days successively. Let 
thoni stand six or seven weeks, observing often whether 



212 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

they keep well ; otherwise boil the syrup again. Thea 
make a rich syrup. 

Orange Chips. 

Cut oranges in halves, squeeze the juice through a 
sieve ; soak the peel in water ; next day boil in the same 
till tender, drain them, and slice the peels, put them to the 
juice, weigh as mucli sugar, and put all together into a 
broad earthen dish, and put over the fire at a moderate dis- 
tance, often stirring till the chips candy : then set them in 
a cool room to dry. They will not be so under three 
weeks. 

Orange Biscuits, or little Cakes. 

Boil whole Seville oranges in two or .three waters, till 
most of the bitterness is gone; cu* them, and take out the 
pulp and juice; then beat the outside ver} fine in a mor- 
tar, and put to it an equal weight of double refined eu^ar 
beaten and sifted. When extremely well mixed to a paste, 
spread it thin on China dishes, and set them in the sun, or 
before the fire ; i^ hen half dry, cut it into Avhat form you 
please, turn the other side up, and dry that. Keep them 
in a box, with layers of paper. 

They are for desserts ; and are also useful as a stomachic 
to carry in the pocket on journeys, or for gentlemen when 
shooting, and for gouty stomachs. 

Orange-fiower Cakes. 

Put four ounces of the leaves of the flowers into cold 
water for an hour; drain and put between napkins, and 
roll with a rolling-pin till they are bruised ; then have 
ready boiled a pound of sugar to add to it in a thick syrup, 
give them a simmer until the syrup adheres to the sides of 
the pan, drop in little cakes on a plate, and dry as before 
directed. 

To preserve Oranges or Lemons in Jetly. 

Cut a liole in the stalk part, the size of a shilling, and 
with a blunt small knife scrape out the pulp quite clear 
Avithout cutting the rind. Tie each separately in muslin, 
and lay them in spring-water two days, changing twice a- 
day : in the last boil them tender on a slow fire. Observe 
that there is enough at first to allow for wasting, as they 
must be covered to the last. To every pound of fruit, 
weigh two pounds of double-refined sugar, and one pint of 
•^ater ; boil the tAvo latter together with the juice of the 



SWEETMEATS. 2l3 

orange to a sjnip, and clarify it, slum well and let it stand 
to be cold ; then boil the fruit in the syrup half an hour ; 
if not clear, do this daily till they are done. 

Pare and core some green pippins, and boil in water 
till it tastes strong of them ; don't break th^ra, only gently 
press them with the back of a spoon ; strain the water 
throuoh a jelly-bag till quite clear ; then to every pint put 
a pound of double refined sugar, the peel and juice of a 
lemon, and boil to a strong symp. Drain off the syrup 
from the fruit, and turning each orange with the hole up- 
wards in the jar, pour the apple-jelly over it. The bits 
cut out must go through the same process with the fruit. 
Cover with brandy-paper. 

To keep Oranges or Lemons for Puddings, <S:c. 

When you squeeze the fruit, throw the outside in water, 
without the pulp ; let tliem remain in the same a fortnight, 
adding no more ; boil them therein till tender, strain it 
from them, and when they are tolerably dry, throw them 
into any jar of candy you may have remaining from old 
sweetmeats; or if you have none, boil a small quantity of 
syrup of common loaf-sugar and water, and put over them ; 
in a week or ten days boil them gently in it till they look 
clear, and that they may be covered with it in the jar. 
You may cut each half of the fruit in two, and they will 
occupy small space. 

To preserve Stra7vherrics whole. 

Take equal weights of the fruit and double-refined su- 
gar ; lay the former in a large dish, and sprinkle half the 
sugar, in fine powder, over : give a gentle shake to the 
dish, that the sugar may touch the underside of the fruit. 
Next day make a thin syrup with the remainder of the su- 
gar, and, instead of water, allow one pint of red currant- 
juice to every pound of strawberries; in this simmer them 
until sufficiently jellied. Choose the largest scarlets, or 
others, when not dead-ripe. In either of the above ways, 
they^eat well served in thin cream, in glasses. 
To preserve Strawberries in wine. 

Put a quantity of the finest large strawberries into a 
wide mouthed bottle, and strew in three large spoonfuls of 
fme sugar ; fill up with Madeira wine, or fine sherry. 
To dry Cherries with Sugar. 

StoBe six pounds of English hearts ; put them into a 



21 X DOMESTIC COOKtRV. 

preserving-pan, "vvitji two pounds of loaf-sugar pounded ana 
strewed amon^ Iheni ; simmer till thej bei^in to slirivel ; 
then strain them from the juice ; lay thtm oa a hot hearth, 
or in an oven, when either is cool enough to dry without 
baking them, 

The samesymp will do another six pounds of fruit. 
To dnj Chcrncs without Sugar. 

Stone, and set them over the fire in the preserving-pan 
let them simmer in their own liquor, and shake them in 
the pan. Put them by in China common dishes ; next 
day give them another scald^ and put them, w hen cold, ou 
s>ieves to dry, in an oven of atemperated heat as above. 
Twice heating, an hour each time, will do them. 

Put them in a box, with a paper between each layer. 
To dry Cherries the best way. 

To every five pounds of cherries stoned, weigh one of 
sugar double-refined. Put die fruit into the preserving- 
pan with very little water, make both scalding hot -. take 
tiie fruit immediately out and dry them ; put them into 
the pan again, strewing the sugar between each layer of 
cherries ; let it stand to melt ; then set the pan on the lire, 
?tnd make it scalding hot as before ; take it off, and repeat 
this thrice with the sugar. Drain them from the syrup ; 
and lay them singly to dry on dishes, in the sun or on a 
stove. When dry put them into a sieve, dip it into a pan 
of cold water, and draw it instantly out again, and pour 
ihem on a fine soft cloth ; dry them, and set them once 
more in the hot sun, or on a stove. Keep them in a box, 
with layers of white paper, in a dry place. This way is 
the best to give plumpness to the fruit, as well as colour 
and flavour. 

Cherries in Brandy. 

Weigh the finrjit, having cut off half the stalk ; prick 
them with a new needle, and drop them into a jar or wide- 
mouthed bottle. Pound three quarters the weight of su- 
gar or white candy; strew over: fill up with brandy, and 
tie a bladder over. 

Cherry Jam. 

To twelve pounds of sour or duke cherries, when ripe, 
weigh one pound of sugar; break tite stones of part, and 
blanch them ; then put them to the fruit and sugar, and boil 
all gently till the jam comes clear from tke pan. Pour it into 



SWEETMEATS. 215 

China plate* to come up diy to table. Keep in boxes 
with white paper between. 

Currant Jam, black, red, or white. 

Let the fniit be very ripe, pick it clean from the stalks 
bruise it, and to every pound put three quarters of a pound 
of loaf-sugar ; stir it well and boil half an hour. 
Currant Jelly, red or Hack. 

Strip the fruit,and in a stone jar strew them in a sauce-pan 
of water, or by boiling it on the hot hearth ; strain oiF the 
liquor, and to eveiy pint weigh a pound of loaf-sugar ; put 
the latter in large lumps into it, in a stone or china vessel, 
till nearly dissolved ; then put it in a preserv'ing pan ; sim- 
mer and skim as necessary-. When it will jelly on a plate 
put it in small jars or glasses. 

yipple Marmalade. 

Scald apples till they will pulp from the core : then 
take an equal weight of su^ar in large lumps, just dip them 
in the water, and boiling it till it can be well skimmed, 
and is a thick syrup; put to it the pulp, and simmer it on 
a quick fire a quarter of an hour. Grate a little lemon- 
peel before boiled, but if too much it will be bitter. 
Apple Jelly for preserving Peaches, or for any sort of 
Sweetmeats. 

Let apples be pared quartered, and cored ; put them into 
a stew-pan with as much w ater as will cover them ; boil 
as fast as possible when the fruit is all in a mash, add a quart 
of water; boil half an hour more, and mn through a jel- 
ly bag. 

If in summer, use any kind; in September, golden or 
winter-pippins are best. 

Red Apples in Jelly. 

Pare and core some well shaped apples; pippins if you 
have them, but others will do ; throw them into water as 
vou do tliem ; put them in a preserving-pan, and with as 
little water as will onh half cover them ; let them cod- 
die, and when the lower side is done turn them. Observe 
that they do not lie loo <:lose when first put in. Mix: 
^jome pounded cochineal with the water, and boil with 
the fruit. Wljen sufficiently done, take them out on the 
diih they are to be served in, the stalk downwards. Take 
the water, and make a rich jelly of it with loaf sugar, boil- 
t 



216 D03IESTIC COOKERY. 

ing the thin rind and juice of a lemon. When come to a 
jelly, let it grow cold, gnd put it on and among the apples; 
cut the peel of the lemon in narrow strips, and put across 
the eye of the apple. 

Observe that the colour be fine from the first, or the 
fruit will not afterwards gain it ; and use as little of the 
cochineal as will serve, lest tlie syrup taste bitter. 
Dried Apples. 

Put them in a cool oven six or seven times, and flatten 
them by degrees, and gently, when soft enough to bear it. 
If the oven be too hot they will waste ; and at first it should 
be very cool. 

The crab, or any tart apples, are the' sort for drying. 
To preserve Pears most beautifully. 

Pare them very thin, and simmer in a thin syrup; let 
them lie a day or two. Make the symp richer, and sim- 
mer again ; and repeat this till they are clear ; then drain, 
and dry them in the sun or a cool oven a very little time. 
They may be kept in syrup, and dried as wanted, which 
makes them more moist and rich. 

Gooseberry Jain for Tarts. 

Put twelve pounds of the red hairy gooseberries, when 
ripe and gathered in dry weather, into a preserving-pan, 
with a pint of currant juice, drawn as for jelly ; let them 
boil pretty quick, and beat them with the spoon ; when 
they begin to break, put to them six pounds of pure white 
sugar, and simmer slowly to a jam. It requires long boil- 
ing, or will not keep ; but is an excellent and reasonable 
thing for tarts or puffs. Look at it in two or three days, 
and if the syrup and fruit separate, the whole must be 
boiled longer. Be careful it does not burn to the bottom. 

Another. — Gather your gooseberries (the clear white 
or green sort) -when ripe ; top and tail, and weiirh tliem ; 
a pound to three (quarters of a pound of fine sugar, and half 
a pint of water; boil and skim the sugar and water; then 
put the fruit, and boil gently till clear : then break, and 
put into small pots. 

White Gooscbcrrijjam. 

Gather the finest white gooseberries, or green if you 
choose, M hen just ripe ; top and tail theni. To each pound 
pat three quarters of a pound of fine sua;\r, and half a pint 



SWKETMEATg. 217 

of water. Boil and clarify the sugar in the water as di- 
rected in page 208 : then add the fruit ; simmer gently 
till clear, then break it, and in a few minutes put the jam 
into small pots. 

Gooseberry Hops. 

Of tlie largest green kind, take and cut the bud end in 
four quarters, leaving the stalk end whole; pick out the 
seeds, and with a strong needle and thread fasten five or 
six together, by running the thread through the bottoms, 
till they are of tlie size of a hop. Lay vine-leaves at the 
bottom of a tin presei'ving-pan, cover them with the hops, 
then a layer of leaves, and so on ; lay a good many on the 
top, then fill the pan ivith water. Stop it so close down 
that no steam can get out, set it by a slow fire till scalding 
hot, then take it off till cold, and so do till, on opening 
while cold, the gooseberries are of a good green. Then 
drain them on sieves, and make a thin syrup of a pound 
of sue^ar to a pint of water, boil, and skim it well; when 
half cold, put in the fruit; next day give it one boil ; do 
thi> thrice. If the hops are to be dried, which way they 
eat best, and look well, they may be set to dry in a week ; 
but if to be kept wet,make a syrup in the above proportions, 
adding a slice of ginger in boiling ; when skimmed and 
clear, give the gooseberries one boil, and when cold pour 
it over them. If the first syrup be found too sour, a little 
sugar may be added and boiled in it, before the hops that 
are for drying have their last boil. 

The extra-syrup will serve for pies, or go towards 
tl:er sweetmeats. 

Raspberry Jam. 

Weigh equal quantities of fruit and sugar ; put the for- 
mer into a preserving-pan, boil and break it, stir constantly, 
and let it boil very quickly. When most of the juice is 
wasted, add the sugar, and simmer half an hour. 

This way the jam is greatly, superior in colour andilsK 
vour to that which is made by putting the sugar in at first. 

Another way. — Put the fruit in a jar in a kettle of wa- 
ter, or on a hot hearth, till the juice will run from it, then 
take away a quarter of a pint from eveiy pound of fiuit ; 
boil and bruise it half an hour, then put in the weight of 
the fruit in sugar, and adding the same quantity of currant- 
juice, boil it to a strong jelly. 



218 DOMESTIC COOKKRC^. 

The raspberry -juice "wil serve to put into brandy, or may 
be boiled with its weight in sugar tor making the jelly for 
raspberry-ice or cream. 

To preserve Greengages. 

Choose the largest, when they begin to soften ; split 
them without paring, and strew a part of the sugar which 
you have previously weighed an equal quantity of. Blanch 
the kernels with a small sharp knife. . JN^ext day, pour 
the syrup from the fruit, and boil it ^dth the other sugar, 
six or eight minutes, very gently ; skim and add the plums 
and kernels. Simmer till clear, taking off any scum that 
rises ; put the fruit singly into small pots, and pour the sy- 
rop and kernels to it. If you would candy it, do not add 
the syrup, but observe the directions that will be given for 
candying fruit; some may be done each way. 
Damson cheese. • 

Bake or boil the fruit in a stone jr.r in a sauce-pan of 
water, or on a hot hearth. Pour off some of the juice, 
and to every two pounds of fmit weigh half a pound of su- 
^ar. Set the fruit over a fire in the pan, let it boil quick- 
ly till it begin to look dry : take out the stones, and add 
the sugar, stir it well in, and simmer two hours slowly, 
then boil it quickly half an hour, till the sides of the pan 
caody; pour the jam then into potting-pans or dishes 
about an inch thick, so that it may cut firm. If the skins 
be disliked, then the juice is not to be taken out ; but af- 
ter the first process, the fruit is to be pulped through a ve- 
ry coarse sieve with the juice, and managed as above. 
The stones are to be cracked, or some of them and the 
kernels boiled in the jam. All the juice may be left in, and 
boiled to evaporate, but don't add the sugar until it has 
done 80. The above looks well in shapes. 
Plum Cheese. 

Weigh six pounds of the fruit, bake it in a stone jar, re- 
move the stones, and take out the kernels to put in. Pour 
half the juice on two pounds and a half of good Lisbon; 
when melted and simmered a few minutes, skim it, »nd add 
the fruit. Keep it doing very gently till the juice is much 
evaporated, taking care to stir it constantly, lest it burn. 
Pour it into small moulds, pattypans, or saucers. The re- 
mai ning juice may genre 6» •oloar cream, or be added to 
a pic. 



SWEETMEATS. 215* 

Biscuits of Fruit. 

To the pulp of any scalded fruit put an equal -weight of 
sugar sifted, beat it two hours, then put it into little white 
paper forms, dry in a cool oven, turn the next day, and ki 
two or three days box them. 

Bell Pear, or Quince Mainnalade. 

Pare and quarter, weigh an equal quantity of sugar ; to 
four pounds of the latter put a quart of water, boil and skim, 
and have ready against four pounds of fruit are tolerably 
tender by the following mode : lay them into a stone jar, 
with a tea-cup of water at the bottom, and pack them with 
a little sugar strew ed between ; cover the jar close, and 
set it on a stove or cool oven, and let them soften till the 
colour becomes red ; then pour the fruit-syrup and a quart 
of quince-juice into a preserving-pan, and boil all together 
till the marmalade be completed, breaking the lumps of 
fruit with the preserving-ladle. 

The fruits are so hard, that if they be not done as above, 
they require a i^reat deal of time. 

Stewing quinces in a jar, and then squeezing them 
through a cheese-cloth, is the best method of obtaining the 
juice to add as above : and dip the cloth in boiling water 
first and wring it. 

To f reserve whole or half Quinces. 

Into two quarts of boiling water put a quantity of the 
fairest golden pippins, in slices not very thin, and not par- 
ed, but wiped clean. Boil them very quick, close cover- 
ed, till the water becomes a thick jelly ; then scald the 
quinces. To every pint of pippin-jelly put a pound of the 
finest sugar ; boil it, and skim it clear. Put those quin- 
ces that are to be done whole into the syrup at once and 
let it boil veiy fast ; and those that are to be in halves by 
themselves ; skim it, and when the fruit is clear, put some 
of the syrup into a glass to try whether it jellies before 
taking off the fire. The quantity of quinces is to be a 
pound to a pound of sugar, and a pound of jelly already- 
boiled with the sugar. 
Excellent Sweetmeats for Tarts, ivhen Fruit is plentiful. 

DiWde two pounds of peaches when just ripe, and take 
©ut and break the stones; put the kernels without their 
Skins t(^ the fruit; add to it three pounds of greengage 
T 2 - 



<l 



4i2Q J»OMikSTiC COO&KKY. 

plums, and two pounds and a half of lump-sugar,- simmei 
until the fruit be a ch ar jam. The su«:ar should be broken 
in large pieces, and just dipped in water, and added to the 
fiiiit over a slow fire. Observe that it does not boil, and 
skim it well. If the sugar be clarified it will make the jam 
better. 

Put it into small pots, in which all sweetmeats keep best. 
PltDUs : excellent as a Stveetmeat or in Tarts. 

Prick them with a needle to prevent burstiog, simmer 
them very gently in a thin syrup, put them in a China bowl, 
and when cold pour it over. Let them lie three days ; then 
make a syrup of three pounds of sugar to five of fruit, with 
no more water than hangs to large lumps of the sugar dip- 
ped quickly, and instantly brought out. Boil the plums 
in this fresh syrup, after draining the first from them. Do 
them very gently till they are clear, and the syrup adheres 
to them. Put them one by one into small pots, and pour 
the liquor over. Those you may like to dry, keep a little 
of the syrup for, longer in the pan, and boil it quickly; 
then give the fniit one warm more, drain, and put them to 
dry OH plates in a cool oven. Plums are apt to ferment, if 
not boiled in two syrups ; the former will sweeten piei, but 
will hare too much acid to keep* You may reserve part 
of it, and add a little sugar, to do t}:ose that are to dry ; for 
they will not require to be so sweet as if kept wet, and v,i\\ 
eat very nicely if only boiled as much as those. Don't 
break them. One parcel may be done after another, and 
save much sHgar. 

LeTOon Drops, 

Grate three large lemons, with a large piece of double* 
j«fined sugar; then ecrape the sugar into a plate, add half 
» tea-spoonful of flour, mix well, and beat it into a light 
paste with the white of an egg. Drop it upon white paper, 
»nd put them into a moderate oven on a tin plate. 
Ginger Drops : a good Stomachic. 

Beat two ounce* of fresh candied orange in a mortap, 
ivith a little sugar, to a paste ; then mix one ounce of pow- 
^ei of white j:;inger with one pound of loaf-sugar; wet the 
iugar with a little water, and boil all together to a candy, 
^rid drop it on paper the size of mint drops. 

Peppermint Drops. _^ ^ 

T^ouad and »ift four ounces of double-refined su^W>c?it 



luXj^ehi 



PJRESEKVE>V 2Sil 

it with the whites of two eggs till perfect! j smooth; thea 
add sixty drops of oil of peppermint, beat it well, and drop 
on white paper, and dry at a distance from the fire. 
Ratafia Drops. 

Blaoch and beat in a mortar four ounces of bitter, and 
two ounces of sweet almonds, with a little of a pound of 
susar sifted, and add the remainder of the sugar, and the 
whites of two e^^gs, making a paste ; of which put little 
balls, the size of a nutmeg, on wafer-paper, and bake geutlr 
on tin plates. 

Raspberry Cakes. 

Pick out the bad that are among the fniit, weigh and boil 
what quantity you please, and when mashed, and the liquor 
is wasted, put to it sugar the weight of the fruit you first 
put into the pan, mix it well off the fire until perfectly dis- 
solved, then put it on chiria plates, and dry it in the sun. 
As soon as the top part dries, cut with the cover of a can- 
ister into small cakes, turn them on fresh plates, and whe» 
dry, put them in boxes with layers of paper. 

TO PRESERVE FRUITS FOR WINTER USE. 

Observaiiojis on Sweetmeats. 

Sweetmeats should be kept carefully from the air, anti 
in a very dry place. Unless they have a very small pro- 
portion of sugar, a warm one does not hurt ; but when aoi 
prnperly boiled (that is long enough, but not quick), heat 
makes them ferment; and damp causes them to grow 
mouldy .They should be looked at tAvo or three times m 
the first two months, that they may be gently boiled agaio-j 
if not likely to keep. 

It is necessary to observe, that the boiling of sugar more 
or less, constitutes the chief art of the confectioner ; and 
those who are not practised in this knowledge, and only 
preserve in a plain way for family use, are not aware that 
in two or three minutes, a syrup over the fire will pass 
from one gradation to another, called by the confectioners 
degrees of boiling, of which there are six, and those sub- 
divided. But I am not versed in the minuti^, and only 
make the observation to s:uard ajrainst under-boiling, which 
prevents sweetmeats from keeping; and quick boiling and 
long, Arhich brings them to caridy. 

Attention without much practice, will enable a person 
to do any of the following sorts of sweettaeats, &c. sftid they*' 



2^2 DOilE&TlC COOKERY. 

are as much as is w anted ia a private family : the higher 
articles of preserved fruits may be bought at lesseApeuse 
than made. 

Jeilics of fruit made with equal quantity of sugar, that 
is, a pouftd to a pint, require no ver} long boiling. 

A pan should be kept for the purpose of preserving ; of 
double block tin, with a bow-handle opposite the straight 
one for safety, will do very well : ,and if put by nicely 
cleaned, in a dry place, when done with, « ill last for se- 
veral yenrs. Those of copper or brass are improper, as 
the tinning wears out by tiie scraping of the swe( tmeat-la- 
die. There is a new sort of iron, with a strong tinumg, 
Tvhich promises to wear long. Sieves and spoons should 
be kept likewise for sweet things. 

Sweetmeats keep best in drawers that are not connected 
with a wall. If there be the least damp cover them only 
vitb paper dipped in brandy, laid qu^t close ; putting a 
little fresh over in sprino, to prevent insect-mould. 

When any s-wectmeats are directed to be dried in the 
sun or in a stove, it will be best in pnvate families, wi.ere 
there is not a regular stove for the purpose, to put them in 
the sun on flag-stones, which reflect the heat, and place a 
garden glass over them to keep insects oiT; or if put in an 
oven, to take care not to let it be too warm, and watch 
that they do properly and slowly. 

To keep Currants. 

The bottles being perfectly clean and dry, let the cur- 
rants he cut from the large stalks with tlie smallest bit of 
stalk to each, that the fruit not being wounded no moisture 
may be among them. It is necessary to gather them when 
tlie weather is quite dry ; and if the servant can be de- 
pended upon, it is best to cut them under the trees, and let 
them drop gently into the bottles. 

Stop up the bottles with cork and rosin, and put them in- 
to the trench in the garden with the neck downwards : 
iticks should be placed opposite to where each sort of fruit 
begins. 

Cherries and Damsons keep in the same way. 

Currants may be scalded, as directed for gooseberries, 
the first method. 

To keep Gooseberries. 

Before they become too large, let tlicm be gathered, and 



PBESERVES. 2 '^3 

take care not to cut thera in taking off the stalks and bude. 
1^'ill wide-mouthed bottles ; put the corks loosely in, and 
set the bottles up to the neck in water in a boiler. When 
the fmit looks scalded, take them out; and when perfectly- 
cold, cork close, and rosin the top. Dig a trench in a part 
of the garden least used, sufficiently deep for all the bottles 
to stand, and let the earth be thrown over, to cover Uieni a 
foot and a half. When a frost comes on, a little fresh litter 
from the stable will prevent the ground from hardening so 
that the fruit cannot be dug up. Or, scald as above ; when 
cold, fill the bottles with cold water, cork them, and keep 
them in a damp or dry place ; they will not be spoiled. 

Another way. — In the size and preparation as above ; 
when done, have boiling water ready, either in a Ijoiler 
or large kettle ; and put into it as much roach-ailum as 
will, when dissolved, harden the water which you will 
taste by a little roughness; if there be too much it will 
spoil the fruit. Put as many gooseberries into a large 
sieve as will lie at the bottom v»fithout covering one an- 
other. Hold the sieve in the water till the fruit begins 
to look scalded on the outside ; then turn them gently out 
of the sieve on a cloth on the dresser, cover them with 
another cloth, and put some more to be scalded, and so 
on till all be finished. Observe not to put one quantity on 
another, or they Avill become too soft. The next day pick 
out any bad or broken ones, bottle the rest, and fill up the 
bottles with the allum-water in which they were scalded; 
which must be kept in the bottles; for if left in the kettle^ 
or in a glazed pan, it will spoil. Stop them close. 

The water must boil all the time the process is carry- 
ing on; Gooseberries done this way make as fine tarts as 
fresh off the trees. 

Another way. — In dry weather pick the gooseberries 
that are full grown, but not ripe ; top and tail them, and 
put into open-mouthed bottles ; gently cork them with new 
velvet corks ; put them in the oven when the bread ig 
drawn, and let them stand till shrunk a quarter part; take 
them out of the oven, and immediately beat the corks in 
tight, cut oif the tops, and rosi!i down close ; set them in a 
dry place ; and if well secured from air they will keep (he- 
year round. 



224 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

If gathered in the damp, or the gooseberries' skins are 
the least cut in taking off the stalks and buds, they -will 
mould. The hairy sort only must be used for keeping, 
and do them before the seeds become large. 

Currants and damsons may be done the same. 
To keep Damsons for winter Vies. 

Put them in small stone jars, or wide mouthed bottles ; 
set them up to their necks in a boiler of cold water, and 
lighting a fire under, scald them. Next day, when perfect- 
ly cold, fill up with spring water ; corer them. 

Another way. — Boil one third as much sugar as fruit 
with it, over a slow fire, till the juice adheres to the 
fruit and forms a jam. Keep it in small jars in a dry place 
if too sweet, mix with it some of the fruit that is done ^dth- 
out sugar. 

To preserve Fruit for Tarts, or Family'desserts. 

Cherries, plums of all sorts, and apples, gather when 
ripe, and lay them in small jars that will hold a pound : 
strew over each jar six ounces of good loaf-sugar pound- 
ed ; cover with two bladders each, separately tied down ; 
then set the jars in a large stew-pan of water up to the 
neck, and let it boil three hours gently. Keep these and 
all other sorts of fiuiit free from damp. 
To keep Lemon-juice. 

Buy the fruit when cheap, keep it in a cool place two 
or three days : if too unripe to squeeze readily, cut the 
peel off some, and roll them under your hand to make 
them part with the juice more readily ; others you may 
leave unpared for grating, when the pulp shall be taken 
out and dried. Squeeze the juice into a China basin ; 
then strain it through some muslin whicii will not permit 
the least pulp to pass. Have ready half and (fuarler 
ounce phials perfectly dry ; fill them with the juice so 
near the top as only to admit half a tea-spoonful of sweet 
oil into each; or a little mor(\ if for larirer bottles. Cork 
the bottles, and set them upright in a cool place. 

Wlienyou want lemon-juice, open such a sized bottle as 
you sliali use in two or three days; wind some clean cot- 
Ion round a skewer, and dipping it in, the oil will be at- 
tracted ; and when all shall be removed, the juice will be 
as fine as when first bottled. 



PRESERVES. 225 

Hang the peels up till dry ; then keep them from the 
dust. 
Orange Juice. A very useful thing to mix with water 

in Fevers, whtn the fresh juice cannot be procured. 

Squeeze from the finest fruit, a pint of juice strained 
throu£;h fine muslin, and gently simmer with three quar- 
ters of a pound of double-refmed sugar twenty minutes : 
when cold, put it in small Vottles. 

Different ways of dressing Cranberries. 

For pies and puddiugs, with a good deal of sugar. 

Stewed in ajar, with the same; which way they eat 
well with bread, and are very wholesome. 

Thus done, pressed and strained, the juice makes a fine 
driuk for people in fevers. 

Orgeat. 

Boil a quart of new milk with a stick of cinnamon, 
sweeten lo your taste, and let it grow cold ; then pour it 
by degrees to three ounces of almonds, and twenty bitter, 
that have been blanched and beaten to a paste, with a lit- 
tle water to prevent oiling; boil all together, and stir till 
cold, then add half a glass of brandy. 

Another way. — Blanch and pound three quarters of a 
pound of almonds, and thirty bitter, with a spoonful of 
water. Stir in by degrees two pints of water, and three 
of milk, and strain the whole through a cloth. Dissolve 
half a pound of fine sugar in a pint of water, boil and 
skim it well ; mix it with the Other, as likewise two spoon- 
fuls of orange-flower water, and a tea-cupful of the best 
brandy. 

Lemonade^ to be made a day before wanted. 

Pare two dozen of tolerably- sized lemons as thin as 
possible, put eight of the riuds into three quarts of hot, 
not boiling water, and cover it over for three or four 
hours. Hub some fine sugar on the lemons to attract the 
essence, and put it into a China-bowl, into which squeeze 
the juice of the lemons. To it add one pound and a half 
of fine sugar, then put the water to the above, and tltree 
quarts of milk made boiling hot ; mix, and pour through a 
jelly-bag till perfectly clear. 

Another way. — Pare a number of lemons accordiug to 
^he quantity you are likely to want ; on the peels pour 



226 DOMIiSlIC COOKERY. 

hot water, but more juice will be necessary than you need 
use the peels of. While iDfusing, boil sugar and water to 
a good syrup with the white of an egg whipt up ; when it 
boils, pour a little cold water into it ; set it on again, and 
when it boils up take the pan ofl^ and set it to settle. If 
there is any scum, take it off, and pour it clear from the 
sediment to the water the peels were infused in, and the 
lemon-juice ; stir and taste it, and add as much more wa- 
ter as shall be necessary to make a very rich lemonade. 
Wet a jelly-bag, and squeeze it dry, then strain the liquor, 
which is uncommonly fine. 
Lemonade that has thefiavoiir and appear atics. of Jelly. 

Pare two Seville oranges and six lemons as thin as pos- 
sible, and steep them four iiou;s in a quart of hot water. 
Boil a pound and a quarter of loaf sugar in three pints of 
water, and skim it. Add the two liquors to the juice of six 
fine oranges, and twelve lemons ; stir the whole well, and 
run it through a jelly-bag till clear. Then add a little 
orange-water, if you like the flavour, and, if wanted, more 
sugar. It will keep well if corked. 

Raspben-y Vinegar. 

Put a pound of fine fruit into a China bowl, and pour 
upon it a quart of the best Avhite wine vinegar ; next day 
strain the liquor on a pound of fresh raspberries ; and the 
following day do the sanje, but do not squeeze the fruit, 
only drain the liquor as dr^ as you can from it. The last 
time pass it througii a canvas previously wet with vinegar, 
to prevent waste. Put it into a stone jar witli a pound of su- 
gar to every pint of juice, broken into. large lumps; stir it 
when melted, then put the jar into a sauce-pan of water, 
or on a hot hearth, let it simmer, and skim it. When cold 
bottle it. " 

This is one of the most useful preparations that can be 
kept in a house, not only as affording the most refreshing 
bev< rage, but being of singular efficacy in complaints of 
the chest. A large spoonful or two in a tumbler of water. 
Be careful to use no glazed nor metal vessel for it. 

Tho fruit with an e({ua) quantity of sugar, makes excel- 
lent liaspbcrni Cakes witliout boiling. 



.Aits. 227 



PART IX. 



CAKES, BREAD, &c. 



Obs€rvatiG?is on making and baking Cakes. 

CURRANTS should be very nicelj washed, dried in 
a cloth, and then set before the fire. If damp they yiiW 
make cakes or puddings heavy. Before they are added, 
a dust of dry flour should be thrown among them, and a 
shake given to them, which causes the thing that they are 
put to, to be lighter. 

Eggs should be very long beaten, w hites and yolks apart 
and always strained. 

Sugar should be rubbed to a powder on a clean board, 
and sifted through a very fine hair or lawn sieve. 

Leraon-peel should be pared very thin, and with a little 
sugar beaten in a marble mortar to a paste, and then mix- 
ed with a little wine, or cream, so as to divide easily 
among the otlier ingredients. 

After all the articles are put into the pan, they should be 
ihoroughly and long beaten, as the lightness of the cake 
depends much on their being well incorporated. 

Whether black or white plum-cakes, they require less 
butter and eggs for having yeast, and eat equally light and 
rich. If the leaven be only of flour, milk and v/ater, and 
yeast, it becomes more tough, and is less easily divided^ 
ihau if the butter be first put with those ingredients, and 
the dough afterwards set to rise by the fire. 

The heat of the oven is of great importance for cakes, 
especially those that are large. If not pretty quick, the 
batter will not rise. Should you fear its catching by be- 
ing too quick, put some paper over the cake to prevent 
its being burnt. If not long enough lighted to have a body 
of heat, or it is become slack, the cake will be heavy. Te 
know when it is soaked, take a broad-bladed knife that is 
very bright, and plunge it into the very centre, draw it 

Tl 



228 D031ESTIC COOKERi:. 

instantly out, and if the least stickiness adheres, put the 
cake immediately in and shut up the oveu. 

If the lieat was sufficient to raise, but not to soak, I have 
■with great success had fresh fuel quickly put in, and kept 
the cakes hot till the oven was fit to finish the soaking, 
and they turned out extremely well. But those who are 
employed, ought to be particularly careful that no mistake 
occur from negligence when large cakes are to be baked. 
Iccing for Cakes. 

For a large one, beat and sift eight ounces of fine su- 
gar, put into a mortar with four spoonfuls of rose-water, 
antl the whites of, two eg2:s beaten and strained, wliisk it 
well, and when the cake is almost cold, dip a feather in 
the iceiug, and cover the cake well ; set it in the oven to 
harden, but dont let it stay to discolour. Put the cake 
into a dry place. 

Tg ice a very large Cake, 

Beat tlie whites of tventy fresh eggs ; then by dei^rees 
beat a pound of double-refined sugar sifted through a lawn- 
sieve i mix these well in a deep earthen pan ; add orange- 
flower water, and a piece of fresh lemon-peel; of the for- 
mer enough to flavour, and no more. Wliisk it for tliree 
hours till the mixture is thick and white; then with a thin- 
broad bit of board spread it all o^^er the top and sides, and 
set it in a cool oven, and an hour will harden it. 
A common Cake. 

Mix three quarters of a pound of flour with half a pound 
of butter, four ounces of sujjar, four €ggs, half an ounce 
of caraways, and a glass of raisiii witie. Beat it well, 
and bake in a quick oven. Tine Lisbon suirar will do. 
J very good common Cake 

Rub eight ounces of butter into two pounds of dried 
flour; mix it with three spoonfuls cf yeast that is not bit- 
ter, to a paste. Let it rise an hour and a lialf ; then mix in 
the yolks and whites of four eggs beaten apart, one pound 
of s!jgar, some milk to make it a proper thickness (about 
a pint will be suflicient), a^lass of sweet wine, the rind of 
a lemon, and a tea-spoonful of ginger. Add either a pound 
of currants, or some caraways, and beat w ell. 
An excellent Cake. 

Bub two pounds of dry fine fiou)*, v.ith one.of bulteiv 



CAKES. 229 

waslied in plain and rose-water, mix it v/ith three spoon- 
fuls of yeast in a little warm milk and water. Set it to 
rise an hour and a half before the fire : then beat into 
it two pounds of currants, one pound of sugar sifted, four 
ounces of almonds, six ounces of stoned raisins, chopped 
fine, half a nutmeg;, cinnamon, allspice, and a few cloves 
the peel of a lemon chopped as fine as possible, a glass 
of wine, ditto of brandy, twelve yolks and whites of eggs 
beat separately and long, orange, citron, and lemon. 
Beat exceedingly well, and butter the pan. A quick 
oven. 

A very fine Cake, 

Wash two pounds and a half of fresh Irutter in water 
first, and then in rose-water, beat the butter to a cream ; 
beat twenty e,2:gs, yolks and whites separately, half an 
hour each. Have ready two pounds and a half of the 
finest flour, well dried, and kept hot, likewise a pound 
and a half of sugar pounded and sifted, one ounce of spice 
ia finest powder, three pounds of currants nicely cleane<t 
and diT', half a pound of almonds blanched, and three- 
quarters of .1 pound of sweetmeats cut not too thin. Let 
all be kept by the fire, mix all the dry ingredients ; pour 
the eggs strained to the butter ; mix half a pint of sw^eet 
vine with a large glass of brandy, pour it to4]ie but- 
ter and eggs, mix well, then have all the dry things 
put in by degrees; beat them very thoroughly, you can 
hardly do it too much. Having half a pound of stoned 
jar-rai>ins chopped as fine as possible, mix them careful- 
ly, so that there shall be no lumps, and add a tea-cupful 
of orange-flower water. Beat tlie inoredients together 
a full hour at least. Have a hoop well buttered or, if 
you have none, a tin or copper cake- pan ; take a wliite 
paper, doubled and buttered, and put in the pan round the 
edge, if the cake batter fill it more than three parts for 
space should be allowed for rising. Bake in a quick 
oven. It will require three hours. 
Rmit (Irof Cakes. 

Mix two pounds of flour, one ditto butter, one ditto su 
gar, one ditto currants, clean and dry ; then wet into a 
stiff paste with two eggs, a large spoon of orange-flower 
water, ditto rose-water, ditto sweet wine, ditto brandy, 
drop oa a tin plate floured : a very ^hort time bakes them* 



-* 30 130MESTIC COOKERY. 

Flat Cakes, that ndll keep long in the house good. 

Mix two pounds of flour, one poiiQcI of sugar, and o.ae 
euace of caraways, -with four or (ive eggs, and a few spoon- 
fuls of water, to make a stiii' paste ; roll it thin, and cut 
it into any shape. Bake on tins light ly floured. While 
baking, boil a pound of sugar in a pint of water to a thin 
syrup ; while both are hot, dip each cake into it, and put 
them on tins into the oven to dry for a short time ; and 
vrhtn the oven is cooler still, return them there again, and 
let them stay four or five hours. 

Little white Cakes. 

Dry half a pound of flour, rub into it a very little poun- 
ced sugar, one ounce of butter, one egg, a few caraways^ 
and as much milk and w^ater as to make a paste ; roll it 
thin, and cut it with the top of a canister or glass. Bake 
fifteen minutes on tin plates. 

Little Short Cakes. 

Rub into a pound of dried flour four ounces of butter, 
four ounces of white powder sugar, one eg^, and a spoon- 
ful or two of thin cream to make it into a paste. When 
mixed, put currants into one half, and caraways into the 
rest. Cut them as before, and bake on tins. 
Plwn Cakes. 

Mix tlioroughly a quarter of a peck of fine flour, w^ell 
dried, with a pound of dry and sifted loaf-sugar, three 
pouuis of currants Av ashed and very dry, half a pound of 
raisins stoned and chopped, a quarter of an ounce of mace 
and cloves, twenty Jamaica peppers, a grated nutmeg, the 
peel of a lemon cut as fine as possible, and half a pound of 
almonds blanched and beaten with orange-flower water. 
Melt two pounds of butter in a pint and a quarter of cream, 
but not hot ; put to it a pint of sweet wine, a glass of bran- 
dy, the whites and yolks of twelve eggs beaten apart, and 
half a pint of good yeast. Strain this liquid by degrees 
into the dry ingredients, beating them together a full hour, 
then butter the hoop, or pan, and bake it. As you put the 
batter into the hoop, or pan, throw in plenty of citrou, le- 
mon, and orange-candy. 

If you ice the cake, take half a pound of double-refined 
sugar sifted, and pat a little with the white of an egi;, beat 
it well, and by degrees pour in the remainder. It nuistbe 
Tirhisked near an hour, with the additioaof a little orang<^- 



CAKES. 251 

flower water, but mind not to put much. When the cake 
is done, pour the iceiiig over, and return it to the oyen for 
fifteen minutes ; but if the oven be warm, keep it near the 
mouth, and the door open, lest the colour be spoiled. 

Another. — i-lour dried, and currants washed and pick- 
ed, four pounds ; sugar pounded and sifted, one pound and 
a half; six orange, lemon, and citron peels, cut in slices; 
mix these. 

Beat ten eggs, yolks and whites separately ; then melt 
a pound aiid a half of butter in a pint of cream ; when 
lukewarm, put it to half a pint of ale-yeast, near half a 
pint of sweet wine, and the eggs ; then strain the liquid to 
the dry ingredients, beat them well, and add of cloves, 
mace, cinnamon, and nutmeg, half an ounce each. Butter 
the pan, and put it into a quick oven. Three hours will 
bake it. 

Verj/ good common Plum Cakes. 

Mix five ounces of butter in tliree pounds of diy flour, 
and five ounces office Lisbon sugar; add six ounces of 
currants, washed and dried, and some pimento, finely pow- 
dered. Put tliree spoonfuls of yeast into a Winchester 
pint of new milk warmed, and mix into a light doujih with 
the above. Make it into twelve cakes, and bake on a flour- 
ed tin half an hour. 

Litth Plwn Cakes to keep long. 

Dry one pound of flour, aild mix with six ounces of fine- 
ly-pounded sugar ; beat six ounces of butter to a cream, 
and add to three eggs, well beaten, half a pound of currants 
washed, and nicely dried, and the flour and sugar ; beat 
all for some time, then dredge flour on tin plates, and drop 
the batter on ihem the size cf a walnut. If properly mix- 
ed, it will be a stiff paste. Bake in a brisk oven. 
A good pound Cake. 

Beat a pound of butter to a cream, and mix with it the 
whites and yolks of eight eggs beaten apart. Have ready- 
warm by the fire, a pound of flour, and tlie same of sifted 
sugar, mix them and a few cloves, a little nutmeg and cin- 
namon in fine powder together : then by degrees work 
the dry insrredients into the butter and eggs. When well 
beaten add a glass of wine and some caraways. It must 

IT 3 



.2.^2 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

be beaten a full hour. Butter a pan, and bake it a full hour 
io a quick oveo. 

The above proportions, leaving out four ounces of the 
butter, and the same of sugar, make a less luscious cake, 
«nd to most tastes a more pleasant one. 
A cheap Seed Cake. 

Mix a quarter of a peck of flour with half a pound of 
sugar, a quarter of an ounce of allspice, and a little gin- 
ger ; melt three quarters of a pound of butter, with half a 
pint of milk ; when just warm, put to it a quarter of a pint 
of yeast, and work up to a good dough. Let it stand be- 
fore the fire a few minutes before it goes to the oven; add 
seeds, or currants, and bake an hour and a half. 

Another, — Mix a pound and a half of flour, and a pound 
of common lump-sugar, eight eggs beaten separately, an 
ounce of seeds, two spoonfuls of yeast, and the same of 
milk and water. 

JNToff.— Milk alone causes cake and bread soon to dry. 
Common Bread Cake. 

Take the quantity of a loaf from the dough, when ma- 
king white bread, and knead well into it two ounces of 
butter, two of Lisbon sugar, and eight of currants. Warm 
tlie butter in a tea-cupful of good milk. 

By the addition of an ounce of butter or sugar, or an egg 
or two, you may make the cate the better. A tea-cupful 
of raw cream improves it much. It is best to bake it in a 
pan, rather than as a loaf, the outside being less hard. 
Queen jpakcs. 

Mix a pound of dried flour, the same of sifted sugar, an<k 
of washed clean currants. Wash a pound of butter in rose- 
water, beat it well, then mix with it eight eegs, yolks and 
whites beaten separately, and put in the dry ingredients 
by degrees ; beat the whole an hour ; butter little tin?, 
tea-cups, or saucers, and bake tlie batter in, filling only 
half. Sift a litle fine sugar over jusi as you put into the 
oven. 

Another way. — Beat eight ounces of butter, and mix 
with two well beaten eggs, strained ; nox eight ounces of 
dried flour, and the same of lump-sugar, and the grated rind 
of a lemon ; then add the whole together, and beat full 
half an hour with a silver-spoiui. Butter small pattypansv 
half ftll, awl bake twenty miuntcs in a quick ovnr. 



CAKES. 2^3 

Skrervshury Cakes. 

Sift OQe pound of sugar, some pounded cinnamon, and a 
nutmeg grated, i/Uo three pounds of flour, the finest fcort ; 
add a little rose-water to three eggs, well beaten, and mis 
these with the flour, <fec. then pour into it as much butter 
melted as will make it a good thickness to roll out. 

Mould it well, and roll thin, and cut it into such shapes 
as you like. 

Tunhridgc Cakes. 

Rub six ounces of butter quite fine, into a pound of flour, 
then mix six ounces of sugar, beat and strain two eggs, and 
make with the above into a paste. Roll it very thin, and 
cut with the top of a glass; prick them with a fork, and 
cover with caraways, or wash with the white of an eggy 
and dust a little w hite sugar over. 

Savannah Rice Cakes. 

Mix ten ounces of ground rice, three ounces of flour, 
eight ounces of pounded sugar; then sift by degrees into 
eight yolks and six whites of eggs, and the peel of a lemon 
shred so fme that it is quite masiied ; mix the whole well 
in a tin stew-pan over a very slov/ fire with a wjiisk, then 
put it immediately into the oven in the same, and bake 
forty minutes. 

Another. — Beat twelve yolks and six whites of eggs 
"with the peels of two lemons grated. 3Iix one poun*l of 
flour of rice, eight ounces of flour, and one pound of sugar 
pounded and sifted ; then beat it well with the eggs by de- 
grees, for an hour, with a wooden spoon. Butter a paa 
well, and put it in at the oven-m.outh. 

A gentle cv^en will bake it in tui hour and a half. 
JVaier Cakes. 

Dry three pounds of fine flour, and rub into it one pound 
«f sugar sifted, one pound of butter, and one ounce of cara- 
way seed. Make it into a paste with three quarters of a 
pint of boilios: new milk, roll very thin, and cut into the 
size you clioose : punch full of holes, and bake on tin- 
plates in a cool oven. 

Sponge Cake. 

Weigh ten eggs, and their weight in very fine sugar, 
and that of six iu flour; beat the yolks with the flour, 
and the whites alone, to a very stiff froth ; then by degrees 



2SA domestic cookkby. 

mix the whites and the fioiir with the other ingredients, 
and beat them well half an hour. Bake in a quick oveu 
an hour. 

Another, withcut butter. — Dry one pound of flour, and 
one and a quarter of sugar : beat seven ggs, yolks and 
whites apart; grate a lemon, and, with a spoonful of bran- 
dy, beat the whole together with your hand for an hour. 
Bake in a buttered pan, in a quick oven. 

Sweetmeats may i3e added, if approved. 
Tea Cakes. 

Hub fine four ounces of butter into eight ounces of 
flour : mix eighi ounces of curraus, and six of fiue Li?- 
bon sugar, two yolks and one white of eggs, and a spoon- 
ful of brandy. Roll the paste the thickness of a biscuit, 
and cut with a wine-glass. You may beat the other white 
and wash over them : and either dust sugar, or aot, as you 
like. 

Tea Cakes. 

Mix a paste of flour, a little bit of butter, and milk ; roll 
as thin as possible, and bake on a back-stone over the fire, 
or oji a hot hearth. 

Another sort, as biscuits.- — Rub into a pound of flour 
six ounces of butter, and three large spoonfuls of yeast, 
and make into a paste, witli a suflicient quantity of nev 
milk ; make into biscuits, and prick them with a clean 
fork. 

Another sort. — Melt six or seven ounces of butter, with 
a sufficiency of new milk warmed to make seven pounds 
of flour into a stiffpaste ; roll thin, and make into biscuits. 
Savoy Biscuit. 

Take the whites and the yolks of four eggs, beat them 
Separately to a high froth, dilute the yolks with water, 
and turn in witli the wliites, continue beating altogether, 
add half a pound of sugar in fine powder and beat again. 
Now add four ounces of supc rfine flour by beating it well 
in. Then dress them on a sheet of white paper in any 
shape you please, ice them over with sugar in powder to 
prevent running into each other. Bake on a copper or tin 
plate in a moderate oven, tending them carefully. They 
are done in a short time. 

A Bisctnt Cake. 

One pound of flour, five eggs well beaten and strained, 



CAKES. 235 

f ip,ht ounces of sugar, a little rose or orange flower water ; 
beat tlie -whole Ihoroughly, and bake one iicur. 
Naples Biscuit. 

Take one pound and a half Lisbon or Havanna sugar, 
put into a little copper or tin gauce-pan, with three gills of 
Trater, and a tea-cupful of orange-water ; boil till ail the 
£ugar is melted ; break twelve eggs, whisk them well, pour 
the syrup boiling hot in with the eggs, whitk them as fast 
as you can while pouring it in, or the eggs will spoil, and 
keep Avhisking it till quite cold, and set; take cee pound 
and a half of superfine flour and mix in as light as possible 
then put two sheets of paper on the copper or tin plate 
you bake upon. Make the edges of one sheet of paper 
stand up about an inch and a half high, and pour your bat- 
ter in It, sift powdered sugar over to prevent burning oq 
the top. Do not leave the oven a minute when you think 
it Is near baked enough. When done, take it out and let 
it stand in the paper till cold, then turn it over, and damp 
the paper till it comes offwith ease, then cut in what size 
you like. 

You may bake in small tins if you please. 
Macaroons. 

Blanch four ounces of almonds, and pound with four 
spoonfuls of orange-flower water; whisk the whites of four 
eggs to a froth, then mix it, and a pound of sugar, sifted, 
with the almonds to a paste ; and laying a sheet of wafer- 
paper on a tin, put it on in different little cakes, the shape 
of macaroons. 

Wafers, as done at Newark. 

Dry the flour well whicli you intend to use, mix a lit* 
tie pounded sugar and finely pounded mace with it ; then 
make it into a thick batter Avitli cream : butter the Avpfer- 
irons, let them be hot ; put a tea-spoonful of the batter into 
them, £0 hake them carefully, and roll tliem off the iron 
with a stick. 

Crack Nuts. 

Mix eight ounces of flour, and eiglit ounces of sugar : 
melt four ounces of butter in two spoonfuls of raisin or 
currant wine ; then, with four eggs beaten and strained, 
make into a paste ; add caraways, roll out as tliin as pa* 
per, cut -with tlip top of a glass, wash with the white of B.n- 
e^, and dust sugar over. 



236 DOMESTIC COOKKRY. 

Cracknels. 

Mix with a quart of flour half a nutmef!; grated, the 
yolks of four eggs beateu, with four spoonfuls of rose-wa- 
ter tiito a stiff paste, with cold water; then roll ia a pound 
of butter, and make them into a shape; put them into a 
kettle of boiling water, and boil liiera till they swim, then 
take out, and put them into cold water ; wljen hardened, 
lay them out to dry, and bake them on tin plates. 
A good plain Bun, that ms^ be eaten with or withcul 
toasting and httter. 

Rub four ounces of butter into two pounds of flour, 
four ounces of sugar, a uutmcg, or notj as you like, a 
few Jamaica peppers: a dessert spoonful of caraways; 
put a spoonful or two of cream into a cup of yeast, and 
as much good milk as will make the above into a light 
paste. Set it to rise by a fire till the. oven be ready. 
They will quickly bake on tins. 
Rick Buns. 

Mix one pound and a half of dried flour with half a 
pound of sugar; melt a pound and tvro ounces of butter 
in a little warm water : add six spoonfuls of rose water, 
and knead the above iato a light dough, with half a pint 
of yeast; then mix five ounces of caraway-comfits in, and 
put some on tliem. 

Gingcrhrcad, 

Mix witli two pounds of flour, half a pound of molasses, 
three quarters of an ounce of caraways, one ounce of gin- 
ger finely sifted, and eight ounces of butter. 

Roll the paste into what form you please, and bake on 
tins, after having Morked it very much, and kept it to rise. 

If you like sweetmeats, add orange candied ; it n;ay be 
added in sniall bits. 

Another sort. — To three quarters of a j>ound of treacle 
beat one egg strained ; nnx four ounces of brown sugar, 
half an ounce of ginger sifted; of cloves, mace, allspice^ 
and nutmeg, a quarter of an ounce, beaten as fine as possi- 
ble: cor^'^inder and caraway seeds, each a quarter of an 
ounc!" ; melt one pound of butter, and mix with the above; 
and add as mucl) flour as will knea<l into a pretty stifl 
paste ; then roll it out, and cut Into cnkes. 

Bake on tin plates in a quick oveij. A little time will 
bake them. 



CAKES, &X. 237 

Of some, drops may be niaclc. 

A good plain sort. — Mix three pounds of flour with 
half a pound of butter, four ounces of brown su^ar, half 
an ounce of pounded ginger : then make into a paste ^vith 
one pound and a quarter of molasses warm. 

A good sort without butter. — Mix two pounds of molas- 
ses, of orange, lemon, and citron, and candied ginger, eacii 
fotti' ounces, all thinly sliced; one ounce of coriander 
seeds, one ounce of caraways, and one ounce of beaten 
ginger. In as much flour as will make a soft paste ; lay it in 
cakes on tin plates, and bake it in a quick oven. Keep it 
dry in a covered earthen vessel, and it will be good for 
some months. 

Note. If cake or biscuits be kept in paper, or a drawer, 
the t^stc w?ll he disagreeable. A pan and cover, or tu- 
reen, will preserve them long and moist. Or if to be 
crisp, layiiig them before the fire will make them so. 
Rusks. 

Beat seven ejrgswell, and mix ^rith half a pint of new 
milk, in which have been melted four ounces of butter; 
add to it a quarter of a pint of yeast, and three ounces of 
suiiar, and put them, by degrees, into as much flour as w ill 
make a very light paste, rather like a batter, and let it rise 
before the fire lialf an hour ; then add some more flour, to 
inake it a little stiiFer, but not stifii Work it well, and 
divide it into sm.all loaves, or cakes, about five or six 
inclies wide, and flatten them. Wlien baked and cold, 
slice them tlie thickness of rusks, and put them in the oven 
to brown a little. 

Note. The cakes, when first baked, eat deliciously 
buttered for tea; or, with caraways, to eat cold. 

Johnny, or Hoe Cake., as made in Connecticut. 

Scald one quart of niiik, and put it to three pints of Id- 
dian meal, and half a pint fine flour, salt, SAveelen and bake 
in a pan before tlie fire. 

Slap Jacks, much admired in the eastern states. 

Mix oae pint of Indian meal, and four spoonfuls flour, 
into one quart of new milk ; Kf^d four eggs and a little salt. 
Bake on a griddle as buckwheat cakes, and serve hot and 
hot with fresh butter. 

To make Yeast. 

Thicken two quarts of water with fine flour, about three 



2SS D03IESTiC COOKERY. 

spoonfuls ; boil half an hour, sweeten with near half n 
pound of brown sugar; Avheu near cold, put into it four 
spoonfuls of fresh yeast in a jug, shake it well together, 
and let it stand one day to ferment near the fire, without 
being covered. There will be a thin liquor on the top, 
which must be poured off ; sliake the remauider, and cork 
it up for use. Take always four spoonfuls of the old to 
ferment the next quantity, keeping it always in succession. 

A lialf-peck loaf will require about a gill. 

AiiGikcr way. — Boil one pound of potatoes to a mash ; 
when half cold, add a cupful of yeast, and mix it well. 

It Avill be ready for use in two or three hours, and 
keeps well. 

Use double the quantity of this to what youdoofbeex- 
yeast. 

To take off the bitter of yeast, put bran into a sieve, 
and pcur it through, having first mixed a little warm wa- 
ter with it. 

To 7nake Bread. 

Let flour be kept four or five weeks before it is begun 
to bake Avith. Put half a bushel of good flour into a 
trough, or kncadiog tub ; mix witli it between four and five 
fiuarts of warm water, and a pint and a half of good ytaSt, 
put it into the flour, and stir it well with your hands till 
it becomes tough. Let it rise about an hour and twenty 
iiiinutes, or less if it rises fast; then, before it falls, add 
four quarts more of wai'm water, and half a pound of salt; 
work it well, and cover it with a cloth. Put the fire 
then into the oven; and l)y the time it is warm enough, 
the dough will be ready. Make the loavrs about five 
pounds each ; sweep out the oven very clean and quick, 
and put in the bread ; shut it up close, and two hours and 
a half will bake it. In the sununer tlie water should be 
milk-warm, in winter a little more, and in frosty weather 
as hot as you can Avell bear your hand ir), but not scald- 
ing, nr the whole will be spoiled. If baked in tins, the 
cnist Avill be very nice. 

The oven should be round, not long ; the roof from 
twenty to twenty-four inches high, the mouth small, and 
the door of iron, to shut close. This construction will 
save firing and time, and bake better than long and high- 
roofed ovens. 



BREAD, &C. 239 

Rolls, -muffins, or any sort of bread, may be made to 
taste aew when two or three days old, by dipping them 
uncut in water, and baking airesh or toasting. 
Economical Bread. 

Only the coarse flake bran to be removed from the flour: 
of this take five pounds, and boil it in rather more than 
four gallons of water; so that A\hen perfectly smootli, } ou 
may have three gallons and three quarts of bran water 
clear. AVith this knead fifty-six pounds of the flour, ad- 
ding salt and yeast in the same way and proportions as for 
other bread. When ready to bake, divide it into loave^, 
and bake them two hours and a half. 

Thus made, flour ynW imbibe three quarts more of bran- 
water than of plain ; so that it not onlj produces a more 
nutritious substantial food, but makes an increase of one- 
fifth of the usual quantity of bread, which is a saviagof 
one day's consumption out of six. The same quantity of 
flour which, kneaded with wat*^r, produces sixty-nine 
pounds eight ounces of brea^^, will, in the above way, 
make eighty-three pounds eight ounces and gain fourteen 
pounds. When ten days old, if put into the oven twenty 
jninutes, this bread will appear quite new again. 
Carolina Rice-and-whcat Bread. 

Simmer a pound of rice in two quarts of water till it be- 
comes perfsctly soft ; when it is of a proper warmth, mix 
it extremely well with four pounds of flour, and yeast and 
salt as for other bread ; of yeast about four large spoonfuls 
knead it extremely well ; then set it to rise before the fire. 
Some of the flour siiould be reserved to make up the 
loaves. Eiiht pounds and a half of exceeding; good bread 
Avill be produced. If the rice should require more water, 
it must be added, as some rice swells more than others. 
French Bread. 

With a quarter of a peck of fine flour mix the yolks of 
three and whites of two eggs, beaten and strained, a little 
salt, half a pint of good yeast that is not bitter, and as much 
milk, made a little warm, as will work into a thin light 
dough. Stir it about, but don't knead it. Have ready 
three quart wooden dishes, divide the dough among them, 
set to rise, then turu them out into the oven, which must 
be quick. 

X 



240 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

To discover whether Bread has been adulterated with 
ash€s, whiting or chalk. 

3Iix it with lemon-juice, or stroQg vinegar, and if this 
puts it into a state of fermentation, you may be certain it 
has a mixture of alkaline particles ; and these are some- 
times in large quantities in bakers' bread. 
Excellent Rolls. 

Warm one ounce of butter in half a pint of milk, put to 
it a spoonful and a half of yeast of beer, and a little salt. 
Put two pounds of flour into a pan, and mix in the above. 
Let it rise an hour ; knead it well ; make into seven rolls, 
and bake in a quick oven. 

It may be made in cakes three inches thick, sliced and 
buttered. 

The foregoing receipt, with the addition of a little saf- 
fron boiled in half a tea-cupful of milk, makes them re- 
markably good. 

French Rolls. 

Rub an ounce of butter into a pound of flour ; mix one 
egg beaten, a little yeast that is not bitter, and as much 
milk as will make a dough of a middling stiffness. Beat 
it well, but do not knead ; let it rise, and bake on tins. 
Rolls. 

Mix with two pounds of flour a little salt, two ounces of 
sifted sugar, four ounces of butter, and tAvo eggs beaten with 
two spoonfuls of yeast, and about a pint of milk. Koead 
the dough well, and set it to rise before the fire. Make 
twelve rolls, butter tin-plates, and set tliem before the fire 
to rise, till they become of a proper size ; then bake hall 
an hour, 

Potatoc Rolls. 

Boil three pounds of potatoes, bruise and work them 
with two ounces butter, and as much milk as Mill make 
them pass through a colander. Take half or three quar- 
ters of a pint of yeast, and half a pint of warm water, mix 
with the potatoes, f.hcn pour the whole upon five pounds of 
flour, and add some salt. Knead it well ; if not of a pro- 
per consistence, put a little more milk and water warm ; 
let it stand before the fire an hour to rise ; work it well, 
and make into roll;?. Bake about half an hour in an even 
iTOt quite so hot as for bread. 



HOME-BRETTEBY. 241' 

Miifins. 

Mix tAvo pounds of flour with two eggs, two ounces of 
butter melted in a pint of milk, and four or five spoonfuls 
of yeast : beat it thorouohly, and set it to rise two or three 
hours. Bake on a hot hearth, in flat cakes. When done 
on one side turn them. 

Note. Muffins, rolls, or bread, ifstalejmaybe made to 
taste new, by dipping in cold v, ater, and toasting, or heat- 
ting in an oven, till the outside be crisp. 
Yorkshire Cakes. 

Take two pounds of flour, and mix with it four ounces 
of butter melted ia a pint of good milk, three spoonfuls 
of yeast, and two eggs; beat all well together, and let 
it rise; then knead it, and make into cakes; let them 
rise on tins before you bake, A\blch do in a slow oven. 

Another sort is made as above, leaving out the butter. 
The first sort is shorter ; the last lighter. 
Hard Biscuits. 

Warm two ounces of butter in as. much skimmed milk 
as will make a pound of flour into a very stiflf paste, beat 
it with a rolling pin, and work it very smooth. Roll it 
thin, and cut it into round biscuits ; prick them full of 
holes with a fork. About six minutes will bake them. 
Plain and very crisp Biscuits. 

Make a pound of flx'>ur, the yolk of an eg^, and some 
milk, into a very stiff paste ; beat it well, and knead till 
quite smooth; roll very thin, and cut into biscuits. Ba^e 
Ihem ia a slow oven till quite dry and crisp. 



PART X. 



HOME-BREWERY, WIINTES, 6:c. 

To brewveiyjine Ale. 
POUR forty -two gallons of water hot, but noi i^au:^ 
boiling, on eight bushels of malt, cover and let it stand 
three hours. In the mean time infuse four pounds of hops 
in a little hot water, and put the water and hops into the 
tub, and run the wort upon them, and boil them to.^ether 
ftree hours. Strain off the hops, and keep for the^emadJ 



242 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

beer. Let the wort stand in a high tub till cool enough to 
receive tlie yeast, of which put two quarts of ale, or, if you 
cannot get it, of small beer yeast. Mix it thoroughly and 
often. When the wort has done working, the second or 
third day, the yeast will sink rather thaii rise in the mid- 
dle ; remove it then, and turn the ale as it works out ; pour 
a quart in at a time, and gently, to prevent the fermenta- 
tion from continuing too long, which weakens the liquor. 
Put a bit of paper over the bung-hole two or three days be- 
fore stopping up. 

Strong Beer, or Ale. 

Twelve bushels of malt to the hogshead for beer (or four- 
teen if you wish it of a very good body), eight for ale ; for 
either pour the whole quantity of water hot, but not boil- 
ing, on at once, and let it infuse three hours close covered ; 
mash it in the first half hour, and let it stand the remainder 
of the time. Run it on the hops previously infused in wa- 
ter ; for strong beer three quarters of a pound to a bushel ; 
if for ale, half a pound. Boil them with the wort two hours 
from the time it begins to boil. Cool a pailful to add two 
quarts of yeast to, which will prepare it for putting to the 
rest when ready next day ; but if possible put together the 
same night. Tun as usual. Cover the bung-hole with pa- 
per w hen the beer has done working ; and when it is to be 
stopped, -have ready a pound and a half of hops dried be- 
fore the fire, put tliem into the bung-hole, and fasten it up. 

Let it stand twelve months in casks, and twelve in bot- 
tles, before it be drank. It will keep, and be very fine, eight 
or ten years. It should be brew ed the beginning of March. 

Great care must be taken that the bottles are perfectly 
prepared, and that the corks are of the best sort. 

Tlie ale will be ready in three or four months; and if 
the vent-peg be never removed, it will have spirit and 
strength to the very last. Allow tAvo gallons of water at 
iirst for waste. 

After the beer or ale is run from the grains, pour a hogs- 
head and a half for tlie twelve bushels, and a hogshead of 
water if eight were brewed ; mash, and let stand, and then 
boil, &c. Use some of the hops for this table-beer that 
were boiled for the strong. 

When thunder or hot weather causes beer to turn sour, 
a tea-spoonful, or more, if required, of salt pf wormwood 



HOME-BREVEUr. %^ 

put into the jug will rectify it. Let it be drawn, just be- 
fore it is drunk, or it will taste flat. 

Excellent Table Beer. 
On tliree bushels of malt pour of hot water the third of 
the quantit}^^ you are to use, which is to be thirty -nine gal- 
Ions ; cover it warm half an hour then mash, and let it 
stand two hours and a half more, then set it to drain. When 
dry, add half the remaining water, mash, and let it stand 
half an hour, mn that into another tub, and pour the rest of 
the water on the malt, stir it well, and cover it, letting it 
infuse a ftill hour. Run that off, and mix all together. A 
poufid and a half of hops should be infused in water, as ia 
the former receipt, and be put into the tub for the first run- 
ning. 

Boil the hops witli the wort an hour from the time it first 
boils. Strain off and cool. If the whole be not cool 
enough that day to add to the yeast, a pail or two of wort 
may be prepared, and a quart of yeast put to it over night. 
Before tunning, all the wort should be added together, and 
thoroughly mixed with the lade-pail. When the wort 
eeases to work, put a bit of paper on the bung-hole for 
three days, when it may safely be fastened close. In three 
or four weeks the beer will be fit for drinking. 

Note. Servants should be directed to put a cork into 
every barrel as soon as the cock is taken out, and to fasten 
in the vent peg, the air causing casks to become musty. 
Excellent Spruce Beer. 

Let four ounces of hops boil half an hour in one galloo 
of water, strain the hop water, then add sixteen gallons of 
warm water, two gallons of molasses, eight ounces of es- 
sence of spruce, dissolved in one quart of water, put the 
whole in a clean cask, then shake it well together, add half 
a pint of yeast, then let it stand and work one week : if 
rery warm weather, less time will do ; when it is drawn 
off to bottle, add one spoonilil of molasses to every bottle. 
To refifie Beer^ Ale^ Wine, or Cider. 

Put two ounces of isindass shavings tasoak in a quart of 
the Hquor that you want to clear, beat it with a whisk eve- 
ry day till dissolved. Draw off a third part of the cask, 
and mix the al ove with it : likewise a quarter of an oufice 
<>f pearl ashes, one ounce of salt of tartar calcined, aodoae 
X 2 



^A^ DOMESTIC COOKElir. 

ounce of burnt alum powdered. Stir it well, thea returii 
the liquor into the cask, and stir it with a clean stick. 
Stop it up, and iu a few da^ s it will bf fine. 
Extract of Malt for Coughs. 

Over half a bushel of pale o;round malt, pour as much 
hot (not boilino;) water as will just cover it. In forty- 
eight hours, drain off the liquor entirely, but without 
squeezing the grains; put tlie former into a large sweet- 
meat-pan, or sauce-pan, that there may be room to boil as 
Guick as possiljle, without boiling over : when it begins to 
tnicken, stir constantly. It must be as thick as treacle. 

A dessert-spoonful thrice a-day. 

To preserve Yeast. 

When you liave plenty of yeast, begin to save it in the 
following manner; whisk it until it becomes thin, then 
take a new large wooden dish, wash it very nicely, and 
when quite dry, lay a layer of yeast over the inside with 
a soft brush ; let it dry, then put another layer in the same 
manner, and so do until you have a sutTicient quantity, ob» 
serving that each coat dry thoroughly before another be 
added. It may be put on two or three inches thick, and 
will keep several months ; when to be used, cut a piece 
aut ; stir it in warm water. 

If to be used for brewing, keep it by dipping large hand- 
fuls of birch tied togetlier ; anil when dry, repeat the dip- 
ping once. You may thus do as many as you please ; but 
take care that no dust comes to them, or the vessel in which 
it has been prepared as before. When the wort is set to 
work, throw it into ©ne of these bunches, and it will do as 
well as with fresh yeast; but if mixed with a small quanti* 
ty first, and then added to the wiiole, it will work sooneii 
J rick and pleasant Wine. 

Take new cider from the press, mix it with as much ho- 
ney as will support an egg, boil gently fifteen minutes, but 
oot in an iron, brass, or copper pot. Skim it well ; when 
cool, let it be tunned, but don't quite fill. In March fol- 
lowing bottle it, and it will be fit to drink in six weeks » 
but will be less sweet if kept longer in the cask^ You 
will have a rich and strong wine, and it will keep well. 
This will serve for any culinary j>ur[)ose9 which milk., oy 
sweet wine, is directed f<yr* 



WINES, &c. 245 

Hooey is a fine ingredient to assist, and render palat- 
able, new crabbed austere cider. 

Raspberry Wine, 

To everj quart of well-picked raspberries, put a quart 
of water : bruise and let them stand two d i) s ; strain oft', 
the liquor, and to everj gallon put three pounds of lump- 
sugar ; when dissolved put the liquor in a barrel, and when 
fine, which will be in about two mouths, bottle it, and to 
each bottle put a spoonful of brandy, or a glass of wine. 
RaspheiTy or Currant wine. 

To every three pints of fruit, carefully cleared from 
mouldy or bad, put one quart of water ; bruise the former. 
In twenty-four hours strain tlie liquor, and put to every 
quart a pound of sugar, of good middling quality of Lis- 
bon. If for white currants, use lump-sugar. It is best to 
put the fruit, ^:c. in a large pan, and when in three or ^our 
dajs the scum rises, take that off before the liquor be put 
into the barrel. 

Those Tvho make from their own gardens, may not 
have a sufficiency to fill the barrel at once : the wine 
will not be hurt if made in the pan, in tjie above propor- 
liofis, and added as the fruit ripens, and can be gathered 
in dry weather. Keep an account of what is put in each 
ti/iie. 

Another way.—V\\ifi\e quarts of currants, and a pint of 
i;aspberrles, to every two gallons of water; let them soak 
a night; then squeeze and break tliem well. Next day 
j'Ul? them well on a fine wire sieve, till all the juice is ob- 
tained, washing the skins as^ain with some of the water ; 
ihew to every gallon put four pounds of v^ery good Lig- 
bon sugar, but not white, which is often adulterated ; tun 
it immediately, and lay the bung lightly on. Do not use 
any thing to work it. . In two or three days put a bottle 
•f brandy to every four gallons; bung it close, but leave 
(he peg out at top a few days; keep it three years, and it 
will be a very fine agreeable wine : four years woul(f 
make it still better. 

Blackcurrant Wine., very fim. 

To everj^ three quarts of juice, put the same of water 
unboiled; and to every three quarts of the liquor, add 
jfjiree pounds of very pure moist sugar. Vni it into a 



2'49 DOMesTic coos east. 

cask, reserving a little for filling up. Put the cask in a 
warm di-y room, and the liquor will ferment of itself. 
Skini off the refuse, when the fermentation shall be over, 
and fill up with the reserved liquor. When it has ceased 
-working, pour three quarts of brandy to forty quarts of 
^\me, Bun* it close for nine mouths, then bottle it, and 
drain the thick part through a jelly -bag, until it be clear, 
and bottle that. Keep it ten or twelve months. 
Excellent Ginger Wine. 

Put into a very nice Ijoiler ten gallons of water, fifteea 
pounds of lump-sugar, with the whites of six or eight eggs 
well beaten and strained ; mix all well while cold ; when 
the liquor boils, skim it well ; put in half a pound of com- 
mon white gini^er bruised, boil it twenty minutes. Have 
ready the very thin rinds of seven lemons, and pour the 
liqa<<r on them : when cool, tun it with two spoonfuls of 
yeast ; put a quart of the liquor to two ounces of isinglass- 
shavings, while warm, whisk it well three or four times, 
and pour all together into the barrel. Next day stop it 
iip ; in three weeks bottle, and in three months it will be 
a delicious and refreshing liquor ; and though very cool, 
perfectly safe. 

Another. Boil nine quarts of water with six pounds of 
lump-sugar, the rinds of two or three lemons very thiuiy 
pared, with iwo ounces of bruised white ginger, half an 
hour ; skim. Put three quarters of a pound of raisins in- 
to the cask ; when the liquor is lukewarm, tun it with the 
juice of two lemons strained, and a spoonful and a half of 
yeast. Stir is daily, then put in half a pint of brandy, and 
half an ounce of isinglass-shavings: stop it up, and bottle it 
six or seven weeks. Do not put the lemon peel in the 
bariel. 

Elder Wine. 

To every quart of berrries put two quarts of water, boil 
half an hour, run the liquor, and break the fruit throu<rh 
a hair sieve ; then to every quart of juice pu|; three quar- 
ters of a pound of Lisbon sugar, coarse but not the very 
coarsest. Boil the whole a quarter of an hour with some 
Jamaica peppers, gingers, and a few cloves. Pour it into 
a tub, and w hen of a proper warmth, into the barrel, with 
toast and yeast to work, which there is more difficulty tt> 



WINES, &c. 247 

make it do thau most other liquors. When it ceases to hiss, 
put a quart ol brandy to eiijht gallons, and stop up. Bot- 
tle in the spring or at Christmas. The liquor must be la 
a warm place to make it work. 

IVhite Elder Wine very much like Fontiniac. 

Boii eighteen pounds of white powder-sugar, Avith six 
gallons of water, and two whites of eggs well beaten; then 
Fkim it, and put in a quarter of a peck of elder-flowers 
from the tree that bears white berries ; dont keep tlieni on 
the fire. When near cold, stir it, and put in six spoon- 
fuls of lemon-juice, four or five of yeast, and beat well 
into the liquor; stir it every day; put six pounds of the 
best raisins, stoned, into the cask, apd tun the wine. Stop 
it cloFe, and bottle in six months. When well kept, this 
Avine will pass for Frontiniac. 

Clary Wine. 

Boil fifteen gallons of water, with forty-five pounds of 
sugar, skim it, when cool put ahttle to a quarter of a pint 
of yeast, and so by degrees add a little more. In aa hour 
pour the small quantity to the large, pour the liquor on 
clary-flowers, picked in the dr}^ ; the quantity for the 
above is twelve quarts. Those who gather from their own 
garden may have not sufticieut to put in at once, and may 
add as they can get them, keeping account of each quart. 
When it ceases to hiss, and the flowers are all in, stop it 
up for four months. Rack it off, empty the barrel of the 
dregs, and adding a gallon of the best brandy, stop it up, 
and let it stand six or eight weeks, then bottle it. 
An excellent Wine of Maple Sap. 

Take four or five gallons of sap and boil it down to one 
s:allon, and in that proportion for a larger quantity, add 
yeast, put it into a clean cask and let it ferment ; when the 
fermentation is ended, stop it up and set it in a cool cellar. 
In three years it becomes an excellent bodied and plea^ 
sant wine. 

Excellent Raisin Wine. 

To every gallon q\ spring-water, put elirht pounds of 
fresli raisins in a large tub ; stir it thoroughly every day 
tor a month ; then press the raisins in a horse-hair bag as 
diy as possible ; put the liquor into a cask ; and when it 
has done hissing, pour in a bottle of the best brandy; stop 
it close for twelve months; then rack it off, but without 



248 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

the dregs; filter them through a bag of flannel of three or 
four folds ; add the clear to the quantity, and pour one or 
two quarts of brandy, according to the size of the vessel. 
Stop it up, and at the end of three years, you may either 
bottle it, or drink it from the cask. 

Raisin wine would be extremely good, if made rich of the 
fruit, and kept long, which improves tlie flavour greatly. 
Raisin Wine, and Cider. 

Put two hundred weight of Malaga raisins into a cask, 
and pour upon them a hogshead of good sound cider that 
is not rough ; stir it well two or three days ; stop it, and 
let it stand six months : then rack into a cask that it will 
fill and put in a gallon of the best brandy. 

If raisin wine be much used, it would answer well to 
keep a cask always for it, and bottle off one year's Avine 
just in time to make the next, which, allowing the six 
months of infusion, would make the wine to be eighteen 
months old. In cider countries this way is very economi- 
cal ; and even if not thought strong enough, the addition of 
another quarter of a hundred of raisins would be sufficient^ 
and the wine would still be very cheap. 

When the raisins are pressed through a horse-hair bag, 
they will eitlier produce a good spirit by distillation, and 
must be sent to a distiller who will do it (but if for that 
purpose, they must be very little pressed) ; or they will 
make excellent vinegar, on whicli article seepage 131. 

The stalks should be picked out for the above, and may 
be thrown into any cask of vinegar that is making; being 
very acid. 

Raisin Wine without Cider. 

On four hundred weight of Malagas, pour one hogshead 
of spring-water, stir well daily for fourteen days, then 
squeeze the raisins in a horse-hair bag in a press, and tun 
the liquor ; when it ceases to hiss, stop it close. In six 
months rack it off into another cask, or into a tub, and af- 
ter clearing out the sediment, return it into the same, ♦ait 
don't wash it : add a gallon of the best brandy, stop it 
close, and in six months bottle it. 

Take care of the pressed fruit, for the uses of which re- 
(^ to the preced^nji receipt. 

Fxc Ucnt M.ad. 

To every gallon of water put four pounds of honey, and 



WINES, 6ic. 249 

boil it three quarters of an hour, talcing care to skim it. 
To every gallou add an ounce of hops; then boil it half an 
hour, and let it stand till next day ; put it into your cask, 
and to tiiirteen gallons of the liquor, add a quart of brandy. 
Let it be lightly stopped till the fermentation is over, and 
tlien stop it very close^ If you make a large cask, keep it 
a year in cask. 

Mead, anotlur way. 
Put thirty pounds of honey into fifteen gallons of water, 
and boil till one gallon is wasted ; skim it, take it oflf the 
fire, and have ready a dozen and a half of lemons quar- 
ter d; pour a gallon of the liquor boiling hot upon them ; 
put the remainder of the liquor into a tub, Avith a quart of 
brandy ; and then put to the liquor and the lemons, eight 
spoonfuls of new yeast, and a handful of sweet briar : stir 
all well together, and let it work for three or four days. 
Strain it, and put into Uie cask : let it stand six months, 
and then bottle it for keeping. 

Imperial. 
Put two ounces of cream of tartar, and the juice and pa- 
ring of two lemons, into a stone jar; pouroa them seven 
quarts of boiling water, stir, and cover close. When cold, 
sweeten with loaf-sugar, and straining it, bottle and cork it 
tight. 

This is a verj' pleasant liquor, and very wholesome; 
but may be drank in such quantities, as to become injuri- 
ous. Add, in bottling, half a pint of rum to the whole 
(luuntity. 

Ratafia. 
Blanch two ounces of peach and apricot kernels, 
bruise, and put them into a bottle, and fill nearly up witli 
brandy. Dissolve half a pound of white FAigar-candy in 
a cup of cold water, and add to the brandy after it has 
stood a mouth on the kernels, and they are strained off; 
then filtre through paper, and bottle for use. The leaves 
of peach and nectarines, when the trees are cut in the 
spring, being distilled, are an excellent substitute for ra- 
tafia in puddings. 

Raspberry Brandyi. 
Pick fine dry fruit, put into a stone jar, and the jar in- 
to a kettle of water, or on a hot hearth, till the juice will 



250 DOMESTIC COOKElRY. 

run ; strain, and to every pint add half a pouud ol sugar, 
jrive one boil, and skim it; wliencold, put equal quantities 
of juice and brandy, shake well, and bottle. Some people 
prefer it stronger of the brandy. 

An excellent Method of making Punch. 

Take two large fresh lemons with rou;;h skins, quite ripe 
and some lar^e lumps of doubie-refined sugar. Rub the 
sugar, over the lemons till it has absorbed all the yellow 
part of the skins. Then put into the bowl these lumps, 
and as much more -as the juice of the lemons ma} be sup- 
posed to require ; for no certain weight can be mentioned, 
as the acidity of a lemon cannot be known till tried, and 
therefore this must be determined by the taste. Then 
squeeze the lemon-juice upon the sugar; and with a bmis- 
er pi CSS the sugar and the juice particularly well togeth- 
er, for a great deal of the richness and fine flavour of the 
punch depends on this rubbing and mixing process being 
thoroughly performed. Then mix this up very ivell with 
boiling water (soft water is best) till the whole is mther 
cool. When this mixture (which is now called the sher- 
bet) is to your taste, take brandy and rum in equal quan- 
tities, and put them to it, mixing' the whole well tOoiether 
again. The quantity of liquor must be according to your 
taste : tw o good lemons are generally enough to make 
four quarts of punch, including a quart of liquor, with 
half a pound of suirar; but this depends much on taste, 
and on the strength of the spirit. 

As the pulp is disagreeable to some persons, the sher- 
bet may be strained before the liquor is put in. Some 
strain the lemon before they put it to the sugar, which is 
improper: as, when the pulp and su>^'ar are well mixed 
together, it adds much to the richness of the punch. 

When only rum is used, about half a pint of porter will 
soften the punch ; and even when both mm and brandy 
are used, the porter gives a richness, and to some a very 
pleasant flavour. 

This receipt has never been in print before, but is 
greatly admired. It is impossible to take too much pains 
in all the processes of mixings and in minding to do them 
extremely well, that all the diflferent articles may be most 
fhoroughly incorporated together. 



WINES, d:c. 231 

Verder^ or Milk Punch. 

Fare six oranges, and six lemons, as thin as } ou can, 
jrrate them after with sugar to get tlie fiavour. Steep the 
peels in a bottle of rum or brandy stopped close twenty- 
four hours. Squeeze the fruit on two pounds of sugar, 
add to it four quarts of water, and one of new milk boil- 
ins: liot ; stir tlie rum into the above, and run it throu^ih a 
jeily bag till perfectly clear. Bottle, and cork close im- 
mediately. 

Excellent Fnnch to keep. 

In twenty quarts of French brandy put the peels of 
thirty lemons and thirty oranges, pared so thin that not 
tlie least of the w hite is left. Infuse twelve hours. Have 
ready thirty quarts of cold water that has boiled ; put 
to it fifteen pounds of double-refined sugar ; and when well 
mixed, pour it upon tlie brandy and peels, adding the 
juice of the oranges and of twenty-four lemons; mix well : 
then strain throuah a very fine hair sieve, into a very 
clean barrel that has held spirits, and put two quarts of 
new milk. Stir, and then bung it close ; let it stand six 
weeks in a warm cellar; bottle the liquor for use, observ- 
ing great care tliat the bottles are perfectly clean and dry, 
and the corks of the best quality, and well put in. This 
liquor will keep many years, and improves by age. 

Another way. — Pare six lemons and three sour oranges 
very thin, squeeze the juice into a large tea-pot, put to it 
two quarts of brandy, one of white uhie, and one of milk, 
and one pound and a quarter of sunar. Let it be mixed, 
and then covered for tweoty-four hours, strain through a 
jelly-bag till clear, then bottle it. 

White curreint Shttb, 

Strip the fruit and prepare in a jar as for jelly ; straiu 
the juice, of which put two quarts to one gallon of i*ura, 
and two pounds of lun^psugar ; strain through a jelly 
basr. 



252 



PART XL 



DAIKY AND POULTRY. 

DAIRY. 

The inhabitanls of each country are generally acquaint- 
ed with the best mode of managing the butter and ciieese of 
that country ; but the following hints may not be unac- 
ceptable. 

On the management of Cows^ &c. 

Cows should be carefully treated ; if their teats are 
sore, they should be soaked in wai-m water twice a-day, and 
either be dressed with soft ointment, or done with spirits 
and water. If the former, great cleanliness is necessary. 
The milk, at these times, should be given to tlie pigs. 

When the milk is brought into the dairy, it should be 
strained and emptied into clean pans immediately in win- 
ter, but not till cool in summer. White w are is preferable, 
as the red is porous, and cannot be so thoroughly scalded. 

The greatest possible attention must be paid to great 
cleanliness in a dairy; all the utensils, shelves, dressers, 
and the fioor, should be kept with the most perfect neat- 
ness, and coid water thrown over every part very often. 
There should be sshutters tokeej) out the sun and the hot 
air. Meat hung in a dairy Avill spoil milk. 

The cows should be milked at a regular and early hour, 
and the udders emptied, or tlie quantity will decrease. 
The quantity of milk depends on many causes ; aa the 
goodness, breed, and health of the cow, tlie pasture, the 
length of time from calving, the having plenty of clean wa- 
ter in the field she feeds in, &c. A change of pasture will 
tend to increase it. People who attend properly to the 
dairy will feed the cows particularly well two or three 
weeks before they calve, which makes the milk more 
abundant after. In gentlemen's dairies more attention is 
paid to the size and beauty of the cows than to their pro- 
duce, which farmers look most to. 



IJtJLIRT. 253 

For making cheese the cows should calve from March 
to May, that the large quantity of milk may come into use 
about the same time ; but in gentlemen's families one or two 
should calve in August or September for a supply in Avin- 
ter. In good pastures, the average produce of a dairy is 
about three gallons a-day each cow, in summer, and in 
winter about one gallon a-day. Cows will be profitable 
milkers to fourteen or fifteen years of age, if of a proper 
breed. 

When a calf is to be reared, it should be taken from the 
Gow in a week at farthest, or it will cause great trouble in 
rearing, because it will be difScult to make it take milk ia 
a pan. Take it from the coav in the morning, and keep it 
without food till the next morning ; and then, being hun- 
gry, it will drink without difficulty. Skimmed milk and 
fresh whey, just as warm as new milk, should be given twice 
a-day in such quantity as is required. If ro'lk runs short, 
smooth gruel mixed with milk will do. At first, let the 
calf be out only by day, and feed it at night and morning. 

When the family is absent, or there is not a great call 
for cream, a careful dairy-maid seizes the opportunity to 
provide for the winter-store : she should have a book to 
keep an account, or get some one to write down for her the 
produce of every A^eek, and set down what butter she pots. 
The weight the pot will hold should be marked on each. 
In another part of the book should be stated the poultry 
reared in one leaf, and the weekly sale or consumption in 
another part. 

Observations respecting Cheese. 

This well-known article differs according to the pasture 
in which the coavs feed. Various modes of preparing 
may elfect a great deal ; and it will be bad or gpod of its 
kind, by being in unskilful hands or the contrary : but 
much Avill still depend on the former circumstance. The 
same land rarely makes very fine butter, and remarkably 
fine cheese ; yet due care may give one pretty good, 
where the other excels in quality. 

Wlien one is not as fine as the other, attention and 
change of method may amend the inferior. There is usual- 
ly, however, too much prejudice in the minds of people, 
to make them give up an old custom for one neAvly recom- 
mended. 



"254 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

Cheese made on the same «jroiirid, of new, skimrueJ. 
or mixed milk, will diflcr «n'( atly, not in richness only, 
but also in taste. Those who direct a dairy in a t^imily, 
should consider in which way it can be managed to the 
best advanta«;e. Even with few cows, checsc s of value 
may be made from a tolerable pasture, by tLiking the 
whole of two meals of milk, and proportioning the ihick- 
7}ess of the vat to the quantity, rather than havin*: a wide 
and fiat one, as the former will be most mellow. The ad- 
dition of a pound of fresh made butter, of a good quality, 
will cause the cheese made on poor land to be of a very 
rlifferent quality from that usually produced by it. 

A few cheeses thus made, when the weather is not 
rxtremely hot, and when the cows are in full feed, wiil be 
Tory advantageous for the use of the parlour. Cheese 
for common family use will be very well produced by two 
meals of skim, and one of new milk ; or in good land, by 
the skim-milk only. Butter likewise should be made, and 
potted down for winter-use, but not to interfere v.ith the 
cheese as above, which will not take much time. 
To prepare Rennet to turn the Milk. 

Take out the stomach of a calf as soon as killed, and 
scour it inside and out with salt, after it is cleared of the 
curd always found in it. Let it drain a few hours; then 
sew it up with two good handfuls of salt in it, or stretch it 
on a stick v ell salted ; or keep it in the salt wet, and soak 
a bit, which will do over and over by fresh water. 

Another way. — Clean the maw as above , next day 
lake two quarts of fresh spring-water, and put into it a 
handful of sweet-briar, a handful of rose-leaves, a stick of 
ciuuanion, forty cloves, four blades of mace, a sprig of 
marjorani, and two large spoonfuls of salt. Let them boil 
gently to three pints of water; strain it off; and when on- 
ly milk-warm, pour it on the veil (that is, the maw). 
Slice a lemon into it; let it stand two days; strain it 
again, and bottle it for use. It will keep good at least 
twelve months, and has a very fine flavour. You may 
?idd any sweet aromatic herbs to the above. It must be 
j)retty salt, but not brine. A little will do for turrnns:. Salt 
the veil again for a week or two, and dry it stretched on 
Rticks crossed, and it w»Il be near as strong as evr i\ 
.Wont keep it in a hot place when dry. 



DAIRY. .2B^' 

To make Cheese, 

Put the milk into a large tub, warming a pari till it i? 
of a degree of heat quite equal to new; if too hot the 
cheese will be tough. Put in as much rennet as will turn 
it, and cover it over. Let it stand till completely turned; 
then strike the curd down several times with the skim- 
ming-dish, and let it separate, still covering it. There 
are two modes of breaking the curd ; and there will be a 
difference in the taste of the cheese, according as either 
is observed ; one is, to gather it with the hands very 
gently towards the side of the tub, letting the whey pass 
through the fingers till it is cleared, and lading it off as it 
collects. The other is, to get the whey from it by nearly 
breaking the curd ; the last mediod deprives it of many of 
its oily particles, and is therefore less proper. 

Put the vat or ladder over the tub, and fill it with curd 
by the skimmer : press the curd close with your hand, and 
add more as it sinks ; and it must be finally left two inch- 
es above the edge. Before the vat is filled, the cheese- 
cloth must be laid at the bottom ; and when full, drawn 
smooth over on all sides. 

These are two modes of salting cheese ; one by mixing 
it in the curd while in the tub after the whey is out; and 
the other by puttiug it in the vat, and^crumbling the curd 
all to pieces with it, after the first squeezing with the hands 
has dried it. The first method appears best on some ac- 
counts, but not on all, and therefore the custom of the 
country must direct. Put a board under and over the vat, 
and place it in the press : in two hours turn it out, and put 
a fresh cheese-cloth ; press it again for eight or nine hours ; 
then salt it all over, and turn it again in the vat, and let it 
stand in the press fourteen or sixteen hours ; observing to 
put the cheeses last made undermost. Before putting 
them the last time into the vat, pare the edges if they do 
not look smooth. The vat should have holes at the sides 
and at bottom to let all the whey pass through. Put oa 
clean boards, and change and scald them. 
To preserve Cheese sound. 

Wash in warm whey, when you have any, and wipe it 
once a month, and keep it oa a rack. If you want to ri- 
pen it, a damp cellar wil 1 bring it forward. When a whole 
Y » 



Z9^ DOMESTIC COOKERT. 

cheese is cut, the larger quantity should be spread with 
butter inside, aud the outside wiped, to preserve it. To 
keep those iu daily use, moist, let a clean cloth be wrung: 
out irom cold water, and wrap round them when carried 
from table. I>ry cheese may be used to advantage to 
grate lor serving with macaroni or eating without. These 
observations are made with a view to make the above ar- 
ticles less expensive, as iu most families where much is 
used there is waste. 

To make Sage Cheese. 

Bruise the tops of young red sage in a mortar, with 
S^ome leaves of spinach, and squeeze the juice; mix it with 
the rennet in the milk, more or less according as you like 
for colour and taste. When the curd is come, break it 
gently, and put it in with the skimmer, till it is pressed two 
inches above one vat. Press it eight or ten hours. Salt 
it, and turn every day. 

Cream Cheese. 

Put five quarts of strippings, that is, the last of the milk< 
iiDto a pan, with two spoonfuls of rennet. When the curd 
is come, strike it down two or three times with the skim- 
miqg-dish just to break it. Let it stand two hours, then 
spread a cheese-cloth on a sieve, put the curd on it, and 
let the whey drain ; break the curd a little with }oiir 
Jiand, and put it into a vat with a two pound weight upon 
it. Let it stand twelve hours, take it out, aud bind a fillet 
round. Turn every day till dry, from one board to an- 
other; cover them with clean dock-leaves, and put between 
two pewter plates to ripen. If the weather be warm, it 
;;»fill be ready in tliree weeks. 

Another. — Have ready a kettle of boiling water, put five 
quarts of new milk into a pan, -AwdL jive pints of cold water, 
unAjive of hot; when of a proper heat, put in as much 
rennet as will bring it in twenty minutes, likew ise a bit of 
sugar. When come, strike the skimmer three or four times 
down, and leave it on the curd. In an hour or two lade 
it into the vat without touching it ; put a two pound w eight 
on it when the whey iias run from it, aud the vat is full. 

Another sort. — Put as much salt to three pints of raw 
cream as shall season it : stir it well, and pour it into h 
Sikvc in which vou have folded a rlieese-cloth three oi 



DAIRY. 257 

tour times, and laid at the bottom. When it liardens, co- 
vent with nettles oa a pewter plate. 
Rush Cream Cheese. 

To a quart of fresh crtam put a pint of new milk warm 
enough to make the cream a proper warmth, a bit of su- 
gar, and a little rennet. 

Set near the fire till the curd comes; fill a vat made ia 
the form of a brick, of wheat straw or rushes sewed toge- 
ther. Have ready a square of straw, or rushes sewed ilat, 
to rest the vat on, and another to cover it; the vat being 
open at top and bottom. ISext day take it out a^d change 
it as above to ripen. A half-pound weight will be suffi- 
cient to put on it. 

Another way. — Take a pint of very thick sour cream 
fvom the top of the pan for gathering butter, lay a napkin 
on two plates, and pour half into each, let 'hem stand 
twelve hours, then put them on a fresh wet napkin in one 
plate, and cover with the same ; this do every tAvelve hours 
until you find the cheese begins to look diy, then ripen it 
with nut-leaves; it will be ready in ten days. 

ii-resh nettles or two pewter plates will ripea cream- 
cheese very well. 

Observations respecting butter. 

There is no one article of lamiiy consumption more in 
use, of greater variety in goodness, or that is of more con- 
sequence to have a superior quality, than this, and the 
economising of which is more necessary. Tiie sweetness 
of butter is not alBfected by the cream being turned, of 
which it is made. Vvlien cows are in turnips, or eat cab- 
bages, or wild onions, the taste is very disagreeable ; and 
the following ways have been tried with advantage to ob- 
viate it : 

When the milk is strained into the pans, put to every 
six gallons one gallon of boiling water. Or dissolve one 
ounce of nitre in a pint of spring water, and put a quarter 
of a pint to every fifteen gallons of milk. Or when you 
churn, keep back a quarter of a pint of the sour cream, 
and put it into a well-scalded pot,into which you are to ga- 
ther the next cream ; stir that well, and do so with every 
fresh addition. 



2.5^ DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

To make Butter. 

During summer, skim the milk when the sun lias oor 
heated the dairy ; at that season it should stand for butter 
twenty-four hours without skimming, and forty-eight in 
winter. Deposit the cream-pot in a very cold cellar, if 
your dairy is not more so. If you cannot churn daily, 
change it into scalded tresh pots ; but never omit churning 
twice a- week. If possible, put the churn in a thorough 
air ; and if not a barrel one, set it in a tub of water two 
feet deep, which will give firmness to the butter. When 
the butter is come, pour off the buttermilk, and put the but- 
ter into a fresh-sculdiug pan, or tubs which have afterwards 
been in cold water. P-air water on it, and let it lie to ac- 
quire some hardness beforo you work it ; then change the 
■vrater, and beat it wath flat boards so perfectly that not the 
least taste of tlie butter-milk remain, and that the water, 
which must be often changed, shall be quite clear in colour. 
Then work some salt into it, weii>h, and make it into forms; 
throw them into cold water in an earthen pan and cover. 
You will then have vei7 liice and cool butter in the hottest 
weather. It requires more workinj* in hot than in cold 
weather: but in neither should I e left with a particle of 
buttermilk, or ja sour taste, as is sometimes done. 
To preserve Butter. 

Take two parts of the best common salt, one part good 
loaf-sugar, and one part saltpetre ; beat them well toge- 
ther. To sixteen ounces of butter thoroui'hly cleansed 
from the milk, put one ounce of this composition; work it 
well, and pot down when become firm and cold. 

The butter thus preserved is the better for keeping, 
and should not be used under a month. This article 
should be kept from the air, and is best in pots of the 1 est 
glazed earth, that will hold from ten to fourteen pounds 
each. 

To preserve butter for Winter, the best way. 

"When the butter hns been p epare<l as above directed, 
take two parts of the best common salt, one part of ^^ood 
loaf-sugar, and one part of saltpetre, beaten ajid bleuded 
well together. Of this composition put one ounce to six- 
teen ounces of butter, ^nd work it well together in a mass. 
Press it into tlie pans after the butter is become cool ; for 



DAIRY. 2.59 

fi ictioii, tiiougb it be not touched bv the hands, \7i\\ soften 
it. The pans should hold ten or twelve pounds each. On 
the top put some salt ; and when that is turned to brine, if 
tiot enousih to cover tlie butter entirelv, add some strong 
salt and water. It requires only then to be covered from 
the dust. 

To manage Cream for Whey Butter. 

Set the whey one day and night, "^kini it, and so tdl you 
have enough : then boil it, and pour it into a pan or two of 
cold water. As the cream rises, skim it till no more 
comes; then churn it. Where new-milk cheese is made 
daily, whey butter for ccmnion and present use may be 
:?ade to advantage. 

To scald Cream. 

In winter let the milk stand twenty-four liours, in the 
summer twelve at least; tliea put the milk-pan on a hot 
hearth, if you have one ; if not, set it in a wide brass kettle 
cf water large enough to receive the pan. It must remain 
on the fire till quite hot, but on no account boil, or there 
will be a skim instead of cream upon the milk. You will 
know when done enough, by the undulations on the sur- 
face looking thick, and having a ring round the pan the 
size of the bottom. The time required to scald cream de- 
pends on the size of the pan and the heat of the fire; the 
slower tlie better. Remove the pan into the dairy when 
done, and skim it next day. In cold weather it may stand 
thirty-six licurs, and never less than two meals. 

The butter is usually made in England of cream thus 
prepared, and if properly ii is very firm. 

Buttermilk, 
If made of sweet cream, is a delicious and most wholesome 
food. Those who can relish sour buttermilk, find it still 
more Ii-.rht ; and it is reckoned more beneficial in con- 
sumptive cases. 

Buttermilk if not very sour, is also as good as cream, to 
eat with fruit, if sweetened with white sugar, and mixed 
with a very little milk. It likewise does equally for 
cakes and rice-puddings, and of course it is economical to 
cjjurn before the cream is too stale for any thing but to 
feed pigs. 

To keep Milk and Cream. 

In hot weatlier. when it is difficult to preserve milk froTit 



260 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

becoming sour, and spoiling the cream, it may be kept 
perfectly sweet by scalding the new milk very gently, 
without boiling, and setting it by in the earthen dish, or 
pan that it is done in. This method is pursued in Eng- 
land; and for butter, and eating, would equally answer in 
small quantities for coffee, tea, Szc. Cream already skim- 
med may be kept twenty-four hours if scalded without su- 
gar ; and by adding to it as much powdered lump-sugar as 
shall make it pretty sweet, will be good two days, keeping 
it in a cool place. 

Syrup of Cream 
May be preserved as above in the proportion of a pound 
and quarter of sugar to a pint of perfectly fresh cream ; 
keep it in a cool place for two or three hours; then put it 
in one or two ounce phials, and cork it close. It will keep 
good thus for several weeks, and will be found very use- 
ful in voyages. 

Curds and Whey^ as in Italy. 

Take a number of the rough coats that line the gizzards 
of turkeys and fowls; clean them from the pebbles they 
contain : rub them well with salt, and hang them to dry. 
This makes a more tender and delicate curd than coramoo 
rennet. When to be used, break off some bits of the skin, 
and put on it some boiling water ; in eight or nine hours 
use the liquor as you do other rennet. 

To choose Butter at Market. 

Put a knife into the butter if salt, and smell it when 
drawn out; if there is nny thing rancid or unpleasant, it 
is bad. Being made at different times, the layers in casks 
will vary greatly ; and you will not easil} come at the 
goodness but by unhooping the cask, and trying it, between 
the staves. Fresli butter ought to smell like a nosegay, 
and be of an equal colour all through; if sour in smell, it 
has not been sufficiently washed; if veiny and open, it is 
probably mixed with staler or an inferior sort. *^ 

POULTRY-YARD. 

Manasccmcnt of Fowls. 
In order to have fine fowls, it is necessary to choose a 
good breed, and have proper care taken of them. The 
Canton breed is thought liighly of; and it is certainly de- 
sirable to have a fine large kind, but people differ in their 



POULTRY-YARD. 261 

opinion of which is best. The black are very juicy ; but 
do not answer so well for boiling, as their legs partake of 
their colour. They should be fed as nearly as possible at 
the same hour and place. Potatoes boiled, unskinned . in 
a little water, and then cut, and either wet with skimmed 
milk or not, form one of the best foods. Turkej'S and 
fowls thrive amazingly on them. The milk must not be 
sour. 

The best age for setting a hen, is from two to five years ; 
and you should remark which hens make the best b cod- 
ers, and keep those to laying who are giddy and careless 
of their young. In justice to the animal creation however, 
it must be observed, there are but few instances of bad 
parents for the time their nursing is necessary. 

Hens sit twenty days. Convenient places should be 
provided for their laying, as these will be proper for sit- 
ting likewise. If the hen-house is not secured from vermin, 
the eggs will be sucked, and the fowls destroyed. 

Those hens are usually preferred which have tufts of 
feathers on their heads ; those that crow are not looked 
upon as profitable. Some line young fowls should be rear- 
ed every year, to keep up a stock of good breeders ; and 
by this attention, and removing bad layers and careless 
nurses, you will have a chance of a good stock. 

Let the hens lay some time before you set them, which 
should be done from the end of February to the beginning 
of May. While hens are laying, feed them well, and 
sometimes with oats. 

Broods of chickens are hatched all through the summer, 
but those that come out very late require much care till 
they have gained some strength. 

If the eggs of any other sort are put under a hen with 
some of her own, observe to add her own as many days 
after the others as there is a difference in the length of 
their sitting. A turkey and duck sit thirty days. Choose 
large clear eggs to put her upon, and such a number as 
she can properly cover. If very large eggs, there are 
sometimes two yolks, and of course neitlier will be pro- 
ductive. Ten or tvvelve are quite enough. 

4 hen-house should be large and high ; and should be 
frequently cleaned out, or the vermin of fowls will in- 



262 DOilESTlC COOKERV. 

crease greall}'. But liens musi not be disturbed while 
sitting; for if frifihtened, they sometimes forsake their 
nests. Wormwood and nie should be planted plentifuUj 
about their houses; boil some of the former, and sprinkle 
it about the floor which should be of smooth earth, not 
paved. The windows of the house should be open to the 
risiniiC sun, and a hole must be loft at the door, to let 
the smaller fowls iS:o in; the larger may be let in and out 
by opening the door. There should be a small sliding 
board to shut down when the fowls are cone to roost; 
which would prevent the small beasts of prey from com- 
mitiinof ravages, and a good stronj^ door and lock may 
possibly, in some measure, prevent the depredations of 
human enemies. 

When some of tlie chickens are hatched long before 
tiie others, it may be necessary to keep them in a basket 
of wool till the others come forth. The day after they 
are hatched, give them some crumbs of white bread, and 
small (or rather cracked) grits soaked in milk. As soon as 
the}- have gained a little strength, feed them with curd, 
cheese-parings cut small, boiled corn, or any soft food, 
but nothing sour; and give them clean water twice a-day. 
K?epthe hen under a poii till the young have strength to 
follow her about, which Avill be in two or thre6 weeks; 
and be sure to feed her well. 

The food of fowls goes first into their crop, which soft- 
ens it; and thro passes into the gizzard, which by constant 
friction macerates it: and this is facilitated by small stones, 
v.'hich are gcncvally found there, and which help to digest 
the food. 

The pip in fouls is occasioned by drinking dirty water, 
or taking (iltliy food. A white Ihw scale on the tongue, is 
t!ie s\mptom. Pull llie scale off with your nail, and rub 
the tongue vuth some salt; and th.e complaint will be re- 
moved. 

It jlnsw^rs well to pay some boy employed in the farm 
or stable, so much a hundred for the eggs he brings in. It 
will be his interest then to save them from being purloined, 
which nobody but one in his situation can prevent; and 
six or eight centfsa hundred will be buying eggs cheap. 
To Fatten Fowls or Chickrns in four or Jive days. 

Set rice over the fire with skimmed milk, only as much 



POULTKY-YARl*. 263 

as will serve one day. Let it boii till the rice is quite 
swelled out; you may add a tea-spoonful or two of sugar, 
but it will do well without. Feed them three times a-day, 
id common pans, giving them only as much as v;ill quite 
fill them at once. When you put fresh, let the pans be set 
in water, that no sourness may be conveyed to the fowls, 
as that prevents them from fattening. Give them clean 
■water, or the milk of the rice, to drink ; but the less wet 
the latter is when perfectly soaked, the better. By this 
method the flesh will have a clear whiteness which no 
other food gives ; and w hen it is considered how far a 
pound of rice will go, and how much tim^is saved by this 
mode, it will be found to be cheap. The pen should be 
daily cleaned, and no food given for sixteen hours before 
poultry be killed. 

To choose eggs at Market, and preserve them. 

Put the large end of the egs to your tongue ; if it feels 
warm it is new. In new-laid eggs, there is a small divi- 
sion of the skin from the shell, which is filled with air, and 
is perceptible to the eye at the end. On looking through 
them against the sun or a candle, if fresh, eggs will be pretty 
clear. If they shake they are not fresh. 

Eggs may be bought clieapest when the hens first begin 
to lay in the spring, before they sit; in fall and winter 
they become dear. They may be preserved fi-esh by dip- 
ping them in boiling water and instantly taking them out, 
or by oiling the shell; either of which ways is to prevent 
the air passing through it : or kept on shelves with small 
holes to receive one in each, and be turned every other 
day ; or close packed in a keg, and covered with strong 
lime-water, 

i'eathcrs. 

In towns, poultry being usually sold ready picked, the 
feathers, which may occasionally come in small quantities, 
are neglected ; but orders should he given to put them in- 
to a tub free from damp, and as they dry ^ change them 
into paper bags, a few in each ; they should naug in a dry 
kitchen to season ; fresh ones must not be added to those 
in part dried, or they will occasion a musty smell, but 
they should go through the same process. In a few months 
they will be fit to add to beds, or to make pillows, withoat 
Z 



264 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

the usual mode of diying them in a cool oven, which may 
be pursued if they are wanted before five or six months. 
Ducks 
- Generally begin to lay in the month of February or March. 
Their eggs should be daily taken away except one, till 
they seem inclined to sit; then leave them and see that 
there are enough. They require no attention while sitting, 
except to give them food at the time they come out to seek 
it: and there should be water placed at a moderate dis- 
tance from them, that their eggs may not be spoiled by 
their long absence in seeking it. Twelve or thirteen eggs 
are enough ; in an early season it is best to set them under 
a hen : and then they can be kept from water till they 
have a little strength to bear it, which in very cold wea- 
ther they cannot do so well. They sliould be put under 
cover, especially in a wet season ; for though water is the 
natural element of ducks, yet they are apt to be killed 
by the cramp before they are covered with feathers to 
defend them. 

Ducks should be accustomed to feed and rest at one 
place, which would prevent their straggling too far to lay. 
Places near the water to lay in are advantageous; and 
these might be small wooden houses, with a partition in the 
" middle, and a door at each end. They eat any thhig : and 
when to be fattened, must have plenty, however coarse, 
and in three weeks they will be fat. 

Geese 
Require little expense; as they chiefly support themselves 
on conimoas or in lanes, where they can get watei*. The 
lar/.iest are esteemed best, as also are the wliite and grey. 
The pied and dark-coloured are net so good. Thirty days 
are generally the time the goose sits, but in warm weather 
she will sometimes hatch sooner. Give them plenty of 
food, such as scalded bran and liglit oats ; and as soon as 
the goslins are hatched, keep them housed for eight or 
ten days, and feed them with barley-meal, bran, curds, &c. 
For grcen-geose, begin to fatten them at six or seven weeks 
old, and feed them as above. Stubble-geese require no 
fattening if they liave the run of good fields. 

Turkei/s 
Are very tender when young. As soon as hatched, put 
three perper-corns down their throat. Great care is ne 



POULTRY-YARD. 265 

cessary to their well being, because the hen is so careless 
that she will walk about with one chick, and leave the re- 
mainder, or even tread upon and kill them. Turkeys are 
violent eaters; and must therefore be left to take charge of 
themselves in general, except one gcod feed a-day. The 
hen sits twenty-five or thirty days; and the young ones 
must be kept warm, as the least cold or damp kills them. 
They must be fed often ; and at a distance from the hen, 
who will eat every thing from them. They should have 
curds, green-cheese parings cut small, boiled corn, and 
bread and milk with chopped wormwood in it ; and their 
drink milk and water, but not left to be sour. All young 
fowls are a prey for vermin, therefore they should be kept 
in a safe place where none can come ; weasels, ferrets, 
&c. creep in at very small crevices. 

Let the hen be under a coop, in a warm place exposed 
to th* sun, for the first three or four weeks ; and the young 
should not be suffered to go out in the dew at morning or 
evening. Twelve eggs are enough to put under a turkey : 
and when she is about to lay, lock her up till sLe has 
laid eveiy morning. They usually begin to lay in March, 
and sit in April. Feed them near the hen-house; and 
give them a little meat in the evening, to accustom them 
to roosting there. Fatten them^with boiled corn, sod- 
den oats or barley for the first fortnight, and the last fort- 
night give them as above, and rice swelled with warm 
milk over the fire twice a-day. The flesh will be beauti- 
fully white and fine-flavoured. The common way is to 
cram them, but they are so ravenous that it seems unneces- 
sary, if they are not suffered to go far from home, which 
makes them poor. 

Pea Fowl. 

Feed them as you do turkej s. They are so shy that 
they are seldom found for some days after hatching • and 
it is very wrong to pursue them, as many ignorant people 
do, in the idea of bringing them hom.e; for it only causes 
the hen to carry the young ones through dangerous places, 
and by hurrying she treads upon them. The cock kills 
all the young chickens he can get at, by one blow on the 
centre of the head with his bill ; and he does the same by 
his owD brood before the feathers of the crown come out' 



2C6 D03IESTIC COOKERY. 

Nature therefore impels the hen to keep tliem out of his 
way till the feathers rise. 

Guinea Hens 
Lay a great number of eggs ; and if you can discover the 
nest, it is best to put them under common hens, which are 
better nurses. They require great warmth, quiet, and 
careful feeding with rice or corn swelled with milk, or 
bread soaked in it. Put two pepper-corns down their 
Ihroat when first hatched. 

Pigeons 
Bring two young ones at a time ; and breed every month, 
if well looked after, and plentifully fed. They should be 
"kept very clean, and the bottom of the dove-cote be strew- 
ed with sand once a-month at least. Tares and white peas 
^re their proper food. They sliould have plenty of fn sh 
water in their house or near it. Other birds are apt to 
come among them, and suck the eggs. Vermin likewise 
are their great enemies, and destroy them. If the breed 
should be too small, put a few tame pigeons of the common 
kind, and of their own colour, among them. Observe not 
to have too large a proportion of cock-birds ; for they are 
quarrelsome, and will soon thin the dove-cote. 

Pigeons are fond of salt, and it keeps them in health. 
Lay a large heap of clay near the house, and let the salt- 
brine that may be dont with in the family be poured upon 
il. 

Bay-salt and cummin-seeds mixed is a universal remedy 
for the disease of pigeons. The backs and breasts are 
sometimes scabby : in which case, take a quarter of a pound 
of bay-salt, and as much common salt; a pound of fennel- 
seeds, a pound of dill-seed, as much cummin-seed, and an 
ounce ofassafoetida; mix all with a little wheat flour, and 
some fine worked clay ; when all are well beaten together, 
put it into tATo earthen pots, and bake them in the oven. 
When cold, put them on the table in the dove-cot ; the pi- 
geons will eat it, and thus be cured. 
Rabbits. 

The wild ones have the finest flavour, unless great care 
is taken to keep the tame delicately clean. The tame one 
brings forth every month, and must be allowed to go with 
the buck as soou as she has kindled. The sweetest hay,- 



SICK GOOKERTp 267 

oats, beans, sow-thistle, parsley, carrot-tops, cabbage- 
leaves, and bran, fresh and fresh, should be given to thein> 
If not very well attended, their stench will destroy them- 
selves, and be very unwholesome to all who live near 
them ; but attention will prevent this inconvenience. 



PART XII. 



COOKERY FOR THE SICK, AND 
FOR THE POOR. 

SICK COOKERY, 

General Remarks. 

THE following pages will contain cookery for the sick ; 
it being of more consequence to support those whose bad 
appetite will not allow them to take the uecessai*)' nourish- 
ment, than to stimulate that of persons in health. 

It may not be unnecessary" to advise that a choice be 
made of the things most likely to agree with the patient ; 
thai a change be provided ; that some one at least be al- 
ways ready ; that not 'oo much of those be made at once, 
which are not likely to keep, as invalids require variety ; 
and that they should succeed each other in different forms 
and flavours. 

A clear Broth that will keep long. 

Put the mouse-round of beef, a knuckle-bone of veal, 
and a few sharjks of mutton, into a deep pan, and cover 
close w ith a dish or coarse crust : bake till the beef is done 
enou h for eating, with ouly as much water as will cover, 
W heu cold, cover it close in a cool place. When to be 
used, give what flavour may be approved. 
A quick-made Broth. 

Take a bone or two of a neck or loin of mutton, take off 
the fat and skin, set it on the fire in a small tin sauce-pan 
that has a cover, with three quarters of a pint of water, the 
meat heiucj first beaten, and cut in thin bits ; put a bit of 
thyme and parsley, and, if approved, a slice of onion. Let 
it boil very quick, skim it nicely ; take off the cover, if 
Z 2 



24^ DOMESTIC COOKEr.r. 

likely to be too weak ; else cover it. Half au hour is- 

sufficient for the whole process. 

A very supporting Broth against any kind of weakness. 

Boil two pounds of loin of mutton, with a very large 
handful of sweet herbs in two quarts of water, to one. 
Take off part of the fat. Any roots may be added. Take 
half a pint three or four times a-day. 

A very nourishing Veal Broth. 

Put the knuckle of a leg or shoulder of veal, with very 
little meat to it, an old fowl, and four shank-bones of mut- 
ton extremely well soaked and bruised, three blades of 
mace, ten pepper-corns, an onion, and a large bit of bread, 
and three quarts of water, into a stew-pot that covers close, 
and simmer in the slowest manner after it has boiled up, 
and been skimmed ; or bake it ; strain, and take oflf the 
^t. Salt as wanted. It will require four hours. 
Broth of Beef Mutton, and Veal. 

Put two pounds of lean beef, one pound of scrag of veal, 
one pound of scrag of mutton, sweet herbs, and ten pepper- 
corns, into a nice tin sauce-pan, with five quarts of water; 
simmer to three quarts, and clear from the fat when cold. 
Add one onion if approved. 

Soup and broth made of i'iffe rent meats, are more sup- 
porting, as well as better flavoured. 

To remove the fat, take it oflT when cold as clean as pos- 
sible ; and if there be stiil any remaining, lay a bit of clean^ 
blotting or cap paper on the broth when in the basin, and 
it will take up evoiy particle. 

Cables' feet Broth. 

Boil two feet in three quarts of water, to half; strain and 
set it by; when to be uaei], iake off the fat, put a lurge 
tea-cupful of tlie jelly into a saucepan, with half a glass of 
sweet wine, a little sugar and nutmeg, and heat i- up till it 
b( ready to boil, then take a little of it, tind beat by de- 
grees to the yolk of an c^s, and adding a bir of buiter, the 
size of a niitmejr, stir it altogether, but dont let it boif. 
Grate a bit of fresh lemun-peel into u. 

Another. — Boil two calves* feet, two ounces of veal, and 
two of beef the bottom of a small loaf, two or three blades 
of mace, half a uutmec sliced, and a little salt, in three 
iiuarts of water, to three pints ; stj-ain» and take ofTtlfe fa?. 



MCK COOKERS'. 26$ 

Chicken Broth. 

Put the body and legs of the fowl that chicken-panada 
was made of, as in page 270, after taking oft' the skin and 
rump, into the water it was boiled in, with one blade of 
mace, one slice of onion, and ten white pepper-corns. Sim- 
mer till the broth be of a pleasant flavour. If not water . 
enou=:h, add a little. Beat a quarter of an ounce of sweet 
almonds with a tea-spoonful of water, fine, boil it in the 
broth, strain, and when cold, remove the fat. 
Eel Broth. 

Clean half a pound of small eels, and set them on with 
three pints of water, some parsley, one slice of onion, a few 
pepper-corns; let them simmer till the eels are broken., 
and the broth good. Add salt, and strain it off. 

The above should mal-.e three half-pints of broth. 
l^efftca. 

Cut a pound offle^^hv beef in thin slices; simmer with 
a quart of water twenty minutes, after it has once boiled, 
and been skimmed. Season, if approved: but it has gen- 
erally only salt. 

ftcoiorative Pork Jclli/. 

Take a leg of v; ell-fed pork, just as cut up, beat it, and 
break the bone, fcetit over a gentle fire, with three s:al- 
lons of water, and siniraer to one. Let half an ounce of 
mace, and the ssamc ol' nutmesfs, strew in it. Strain through 
a fine sieve. Vv'hen cold, take off the fat. Give a cho- 
colate cup the (ir=t and the last thing, and at noon, putting 
salt to tasie. 

Shank Jelly. 

Soak twelve shanks of mutton four hours, then brush 
and scour iheni very clean. Lay them in a saucepan 
with three blades of mace, an onion, twenty Jamaica and 
ihirty or forty black peppers, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 
a crust of brer^d made very brown by toasting. Pour 
three quarts Oi" water to thenij and set them on a hot hearth 
close-covered : let them simmer as gently as possi'^le for 
live hours, then strain it off, and put it in a cold place. 

This may have the addition of a pound of beef, if ap- 
proved, for flavour. It is a remarkably good thing for 
people who are weak. 

Arrow-root Jelly. 

If genuine, is very nourishing, especially for weak bo\5'- 



270 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

els. Put into a saucepan half a pint of water a glass of 
8herry, or a spoonful of brandy, grated nulmtg and line 
sugar; boil once up, then mix it by degrees into a dr^bert- 
spoonful of arrow-root, previously rubbed smooth with 
two spoonfuls of cold water ; then return the whole into ihe 
saucepan ; stir and boil it three minutes. 
Tapioca Jelly. 

Choose the largest sort, pour cold water on to wash it 
two or three times, then soak it in tresh water five or six 
hours, and simnx r it in the same until it become quite 
clear: then put temon juice, wine, and sugar. The peel 
should have been boiled in it. It thickens very much. 
An excellent Jelly. 

Take rice, sago, pearl-barley, hartshorn shavings, each 
an ounce; simmer with three pints of water to one, and 
strain jt. When cold it will be a jelly ; of which give, 
dissolved in wine, milk, or broth, in change with other 
nourishment. 

Panada made in Jive minutes. 

Set a little water otj the fire with a »;lass of wiiite wine, 
som^' sui.ar, and a scr ipe of nuti-ie;^ and lemon-peel ; mean- 
while graio some crumbs of bread. The moment the mix- 
ture b: ils up, keeping it still on the fire, put the crumbs in 
and let it -oil as fast as it can. When of a proper thick- 
ness j»j.st to drink, take it off. 

Another. — Make as above, but instead of [i glass of wine 
put io a tea-spoonful of rum, and a bit of butter; sugar as 
above. This is a most pleasant mes«. 

Another. — Put to the water a bit of lemon-peel, mix the 
orumbs in, and when nearly boiled enouj^h, put some le- 
mof) or orange syrup. Obsf rve to boil all the ingredients ; 
for if any be added after, the panada will break, and not 
jelly. 

Chicken Panada. 

Boil it till about tliree parts ready, in a quart of water, 
take off the skin, cut the white moat off when cold, and 
put iiitoa marble mortar: pound it to a paste with a lit- 
tie of the water it was boiled in, season with a little salt, a 
ffr-tte ofnutmeor, and the least bit of lemon-peel. Boil gent- 
ly for a few minutes to the consistency you like ; it sliouM 
be such as you can drink, though tolerably thick. 



SICK COOKERY. 271 

This conveys great nourishment in small compass. 
Sippets, when the stomach will not receive meat. 

On an extreme hot plate put two or three sippets cf 
bread, and pour over them some gravy from beef, mut- 
ton, or veal, if there is no butter in tlie dish. Sprinkle a 
little salt over. 

An egg broken into a cup of tea, or beaten and mixed 
with a basin of milk, makes a breakfast more supporting 
than tea solely. 

An egg ' divided, and the yolk and white beaten sepa- 
rately, then mixed with a glass of wine, will afford two 
rery wholesome draughts, and prove lighter than when 
taken together. 

Eggs very little boiled, or poached taken in small quan- 
tity, convey much nourishment; the yolk only, when 
dressed, should be eaten by invalids. 
A great restorative. 

Bake two calves' feet in iavo pints of water, and the same 
quantity of new milk, in a jir close covered, three hours 
and a half. \Vhen cold remove the fat. 

Give a laiG;e tca-cupfLl the last and first thing. What- 
ever flavour is approved, ^Ive it by baking in it lemon-peel^ 
cinnamon, or mace. Add sugar after. 

Another. — Simmer six sheep's trotters, two blades of 
mace, a little cinnamon, lemon-peel, a few hartshorn sha- 
vings, and a little iyinglass, in two quarts of water to one ; 
when cold, take off the fat, and give near half a pint twice 
a-day, warming it with a little new mik. 

Another. — Boil one ounce of isinglass-shavings, forty 
Jamaica peppers, and a bit of brown crust of bread, in a 
quart of water to a pint and strain it. 

This makes a pleasant jelly to keep in the house; of 
which a large spoonful may be taken in wine and water, 
milk, tea, soup, or any way. 

Another, a most pleasant Draught. — B^il a quarter of 
an ounce of isinn:lass-shavinffs with a pint of new milk, to 
half: add a bit of sugar, and for chanoje a bitter almond. 

Give this at bed-time, not too warm. 

Dutch flummery, blamanre, and jellies, as directed ijl 
pages 189, 190, and 197, or less rich according to jud^^- 
meuh 



272 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

Caudle. 

Make a fine smooth gruel ; strain it when boiled well, 
stir it at times till cold. When to be used, add sugar, wine, 
and lemon-peel, with nutmeg. Some like a spoonful of 
brandy besides the wine ; others like lemon-juice. 

Another. — Boil up halt a pint of fine gruel, with a bit 
of butter the size of a large nutmeg, a large spoonful of 
brandy, the same of white wine, a bit of sugar, a bit of le- 
mon-peel and nutmeg. 

Another. — Into a pint ol fine gruel, not thick, put, while 
it is boiling hot the yolk of an egg beaten with sugar, and 
mixed with a large spoonful of cold water, a glass of wine 
and nutmeg. Mix by degrees. It is y^xy agreeable and 
nourishing. Some like gruel, with a glass of table-beer, 
sugar, &c. with or without a tea-spoonful of brandy. 
Cold Caudle. 

Boil a quart of sprin '(-water ; when cold, add the yolk 
of an egg, the juice of a small lemon, six spoonluls oi sweet 
wine, sugar to your taste, and syrup of lemons oi.e ounce. 
A Flour Caudle. 

Into five large spoonluls of the purest w^ater, rub smooth 
one dessert-spoonful of fine (lour. Set over the fire five 
spoonfuls of new milk, and put two bits of su^ar into it : 
the moment it boils, pour into it the flour and water : and 
stir it over a slow fire tv/enty minutes. Itisanourisliing 
and gently astringent food. This is an excellent food for 
babies who have weak bowels. 

Rice Caudle. 

When the water boils, pour into it some grated rice 
mixed with a little cold water; when of a proper consis- 
tence, add sugar, lemon-peel, a.id cinuamoi), and a glass of 
brandy to a quart. Boil all smooth. 

Another. — Soak some rice in water an hour, strain 
it, ^nd put two spoonfuls of the rice into a pint and 
a quarter of milk ; simmer till it will pulp through a 
sieve, then put the pulp and milk into a saucepan, 
with a bruised clove and a bit of w hite sugar. Simmer ten 
minutes; if too thick, add a spoonful or two of milk ; and 
serve with thin loast. 

To mull Wine. 
Boil some spice in a little water till the flavour is gain- 
ed, then add an equal quantity of port, Madeira, or sherry^ 



SICK COOKERY. 273 

some sugar and nutmeg ; boil together, and serve with 
toast. 

Another 7vai/. —Boil a. bit of cinnamon and some grated 
nutmeg a few minutes, in a large tea-cupful of w ater ; then 
pour to it a pint of port wine, and add sugar to your taste : 
beat it up and it will be ready. 

Or it may be made of good home-made Avine. 

To make Coffee. 
Put two ounces of fresh-ground coffee, of tlie best qua- 
lity, into a coffee-pot, and pour eight coffee-cups of boiling 
water on it ; let it boil six minutes; pour out a cupful two 
or three times, and return it again ; then put two or three 
isinglass-chips into it, and pour one large spoonful of boil- 
ing water on it ; boil it five minutes more, and set the pot 
))y the fire to keep hot for ten minutes, and you will have 
coffee of a beautifiil clearness. 

Fine cream should always be served with coffee, and 
either pounded sugar-candy, or fine sugar. 

If for foreigners, or those who like it extremely strong, 
make only eight dishes from three ounces. If not fresh 
roasted, lay it before a fire until perfectly hot and dry ; 
or you may put the smallest bit of fresh butter into a pre- 
serving-pan of a small size, and when hot, throw the coffee 
ia it, and toss it about until it be freshened, letting it be 
cold before ground. 

Coff^ee Milk. 
Eoil a dessert-spoonful of ground coffee, in nearly a pint 
of milk, a quarter of an hour ; then put into it a shaving or 
two of isinglass, and clear it ; let it boil a few minutes, and 
set it on the side of the fire to grow fine. 

This is a very fine breakfast ; it should be sweetened 
with sugar of a good quality. 

Chocolate. 
Those who use much of this article, will find the follow- 
ing mode of preparing it both useful and economical ; 

Cut a cake of chocolate in ver^^ small bits ; put a pint 
of water into the pot, and, when it boils, put in the above ; 
mill it off the fire until quite melted, then on a gentle fire 
till it boil ; pour it into a basin, and it will keep in a cool 
place eight or ten days, or more. When wanted, put a 
spoonful or two into milk, boil it with suarar, and mill it 
well. 



274 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

This is a very good breakfast or supper* 
Cocoa 
Is a light wholesome breakfast. 

Milk-Porridge, 

Make a fme gruel of cracked corn, long boiled ; straiu 
off; either add cold milk, or warm with milk, as may be 
approved. Ser\'e with toast. 

Fren ch Milk- Porridge, 

Stir some oatmeal and water together, let it stand to be 
clear, and pour off the latter ; pour fresh upon it, stir it 
well, let it stand till next day ; strain through a fine sieve, 
and boil the water, adding milk while doing. The pro- 
portion of water must be small. 

This is much ordered, with toast, for the breakfast of 
weak persons, abroad. 

Ground-Rice Milk, 

Boil one spoonful of ground rice, rubbed down smooth, 
with three half-pints of milk, a bit of cinnamon, lemou- 
peel, and nutmeg. Sweeten when nearly done. 
Sago, 

To prevent the earthy taste, soak it in cold water an 
liour; pour that off, and Avash it well; then add more, and 
simmer gently till clear, with lemon-peel and spice, if ap- 
proved. Add wine and sugar, and boil all up together. 
Sago Milk. 

Cleanse as above, and boil it slowly, and wholly with 
Dew milk. It swells so much, that a small quantity Avill 
be sufficient for a quart, and when done it will be dimin- 
ished to about a pint. It requires no sugar or flavouring. 

Jsscs' Milk 
Far surpasses any imitation of it that can be made. It 
should be milked into a glass that is kept warm by being in 
a basin of hot w ater. 

The fixed air tliat it contains gives some people a pain 
in the stomach. At first a tea-spoonful of rum may be ta- 
ken with it, but should only be put in the moment it is to 
be swallowed. 

Artificial Asses' Milk. 

Boil together a quart of water, a quart of new milk, an 
ounce of white sugar-candy, half an ounce of eringo-root, 
and half an ounce of conserve of roses, till half be wasted. 



SICK COOKERY. 275 

This is astringent ; therefore proportion the doses to the 
effect, and the quantity to i\hat will be used while sweet. 

Another. — Mix two spoonfuls of boiling w ater, two of 
milk, and an egg Avell beaten; sweeten with pounded white 
sugar-cand}'. This may be taken twice or thrice a-day. 

Another. — Boil two ounces of hartshorn-shavings, two 
ounces of pearl-barley, two ounces of candied eringo-root, 
and one dozen of snails that liave been bruised, in two 
quarts of water, to one. Mix with an equal quantity of 
ne^v milk, v. hen taken, tAvice a-day. 
Water Gruel. 

Put a large fpoonfulofoatmeal or fine Indian meal by 
degrees into a pint of water and when smooth boil it. 

Another way. — Rub smooth a large spoonful of oat, or 
fine iudian meal, with two of water, and pour it into a pint 
of boiling on the fire ; stir it well, and boil it quick ; but 
lake care v does not boil over. In a quarter of an hour 
strain it off; and add salt and a bit of butter when eaten. 
Stir until the butter be incorporated. 
Barley Gruel. 

Wash four ounces of pearl-barley ; boil it in two quarts 
of water and a stick of cinnamon, till reduced to a quart; 
Ftrain, and return it into the sauce-pan with sugar, and 
tiiree quarters of a pint of port-wine. Heat up, and use 
as wanted. 

A veiy agreeable Drink. 

Into a tumbler of fresh cold water, pour a table-spoonful 
of capillaire, and the same of good vinegar. 

Tamarinds, currants fresh or in jelly, or scalded cur- 
rants or cranberries, make excellent drinks ; with a little 
sugar or not, as may be agreeable. 

A refreshing Drink in a Fever. 

Put a little tea-sage, two sprigs of balm, and a little sor- 
rel, into a stone jug, having first washed and dried them ; 
peel thin a small lemon, and clear from the white; slice it, 
and put a bit of the peel in ; then pour in three pints of 
boiling water, sweeten, and cover it close. 

Another Drink. — Wash extremely well an ounce of 
pearl-barley ; shift it twice, then put to it three pints of 
vater, an ounce of sweet almonds beateu fine, and a bit cjf 



276 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

lemon-peel ; boil till you have a smooth liquor, then put iu 
a little syrup of lemons and capillaire. 

Another. — Boil throe pints of water with an ounce and 
a half of tamarinds, three ounces of currants and two oun- 
ces of stoned raisins, till near a third be consumed. Strain 
it on a bit of lemon-peel, which remove in an hour, as it 
gives a bitter taste if left long. 

A most pleasant Drink. 

Put a tea-cupful of cranberries into a cup of water, and 
mash them. In the mean time boil two quarts of water 
with one large spoonful of corn or oatmeal and a bit of 
lemon-peel; then add the cranberries, and as much fine 
sugar as shall leave a smart flavour of the fruit ; and a 
quarter of a pint of sherry, or less, as may be proper ; boil 
all for half an hour hour, and strain off. 
Soft and fine Draught for those who are weak and have a 
<^ Cough. 

Beat a fresh-laid e^g, and mix it with a quarter of a 
pint of new milk warmed, a large spoonful of capillaire or 
noyeau, (he same of rose-water, and a little nutmeg scra- 
ped. Dont warm it after the egg is put in. Take it the 
first and last thing. 

Toast and Water. 

Toast slowly, a thin piece of bread till extremely brown 
and hard, but not the least black; then plunge it into a jug 
of cold water, and cover it over an hour before used. This 
is of particular use in weak bowels. It should be of a fine 
brown colour before drinking it. 

Barley water. 

Wash a handful of.common barley, tlien simmer it gent- 
ly in three pints of '«^ater with a bit of lemon peel. 

Tliis is a very pleasant drink. 

Another way. — Boil an ounce of pearl-barley a few 
minutes to cleanse, then put on it a quart of water, sim- 
mer an hour : when half done, put into it a bit of fresh le- 
raonpeel, and one bit of sugar. If likely to be too thick, 
you may put another quarter of a pint of water. Lemon- 
juice may be added, if chosen. 

Lemon-water, a dcliL^htful Drink. 

Put two slices of lemon thinly pared into a tea-pot, a 
little bit of the peel, and a bit of sugar ; pour in a pint of 
boiling water, and stop it close two hours. 



SICK COOKERY. 27T 

Apple Water. 

Cut two large apples in slices, and pour a quart of boil, 
ing Vrater on theui ; oi on roasted apples ; strain in two or 
three hours, and sw eeten lightly. 

Rasphcrry-vinegar Water. 

(See page 230.) This is one of the most delightful 
drinks that can be made. 

Wluy. 

That of cheese is a very wholesome drink, especially 
ifhen the cows are in fresh herbage. 

White-wine Whey. 

Put half a pint of new milk on the Sre, the moment it 
boils up, pour in as much sound raisin-v.-ine as will com- 
pletely turn it, and it looks clear; let it 'oil up, then set 
the saucepan aside till the curd subsides, and do not stT it. 
Pour the whey off, and add to it half a piat of boiling 
water, and a bit of white sugar. Thus^ou will hive a 
•whey perfectly cleared of milky particl^and as weak as 
you choose to make it. 

Vinegar and Lemon Wheys. 

Pour into boiling milk as much vinegar or lemon-juice 
as will make a small quantity quite clear, dilute with hot 
water to an agreeable smart acid, and put a bit or two of 
sugar. This is less heating than if made of wine; and if 
only to excite perspiration, aeswers as well. 

Butter milk with Bread or without. 

It is most wholesome when sour, as being less likely 
to be heavy ; but most agreeable when made of sweet 
cream. 

Sweet Btittermilk. 

Take the milk from the cow into a small churn, in 
about ten minutes begin churning, and continue till the 
flakes of butter swim about pretty thick, and the milk is 
discharged of all the greasy particles, and appears thin 
and blue. Strain it through a sieve, and drink it as fre^ 
quently as possible. 

It should form the whole of the patient's drink, and the 
food should be biscuits and rusks, in every way and sort ; 
ripe and dried fruits of various kinds, when a decline is ap- 
prehended. 

Baked and dried fruits, raisins in particular, make ex- 
cellent suppers for invalids, with biscuits or common cake. 



278 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

Orgeat. 

Beat two oances of almoiuls with a tea-spoonful of orange- 
flower water, and a bitter almond or two ; then pour a 
quart of ni Ik and water to the paste. Sweeten with su- 
gar, or capillaire. This is a fine drink for tliose who 
have a tender cJiest; and in the gout it is higlily useful, 
and with the addition of half an ounce of gum arabic, has 
been found to allaj the painfulness of the attendant heat. 
Half a glass of brandy may be added if thought too cool- 
ing in the latter complaints, and the glass of orgeat, may 
be put into a basin of Avarm water. 

Another orgeat, for company, is in page 225. 
Orangeade^ or Ijemonadc. 

Squeeze the juice ; pour boiling water on a little of the 
peel and cover close. Boil water and sugar to a thin sy- 
rup, and skim it. When all are cold, mix the juice, the 
infusion, and thu^rup, with as much more water as will 
make a rich sherbet; strain through a jelly-bjg. Or 
squeeze the juice, and strain it, and add water and capil- 
laire. 

Egg Wine, 

Beat an cgg^ mix with it a spoonful of cold water ; set 
on the fire a glass of white ATine, half a glass of water, su- 
gar, and nutmeg. When it boils, pour a little of it to tl^e 
egg by degrees, till the whole be in, stirring it well ; then 
return the whole into the sauce-pan, put it oa a gentle fire, 
stir it one way for not more than a minute ; for if it boil, 
or the egg be stale, it will curdle. Serve with toast. 

Egg wine may be made as above, without warming the 
egg, and it is then lighter on the stomach, though not so 
pleasant to the taste. 

COOKERV FOR THE POOR. 

General Remarks and Hints. 

I promised a few hints, to enable every family to assist 
the poor of their neighbourhood at a very trivial expense ; 
and these may be varied or amended at the discretion of 
the mistress. 

Where cow? are kept, a jug of skimmed milk is a valu- 
able present, and a veiy common one. 

When the oven is hot, a hir^e pudding may be leaked, 
and iven to a sick or young family : and thus made the trou- 
ble is little: — Into a deep coarse pan put half a pound o£ 



COOKERY tOR THE POOR.. ^^ 

wee, four ounces of coarse sugar or molasses, two quarts of 
milk, and two ounces of dripping ; set it cold into the 
oven. It will take a good while, but be an excellent solid 
food. 

A very good meal may be bestowed in a thing called 
brewis which is thus made : — Cut a very thick upper crust 
of bread, and put it into the pot where salt beef is boiling 
and near ready : it wili attract some of the fat, and when 
swelled out, will be no unpalatable dish to those who rare- 
ly taste meat. 

A baked Soup. 

Put a pound of any kind of meat cut in slices ; two on- 
ions, two carrots, ditto ; two ounces of rice, a pint of split 
peas, or whole ones if previously soaked, pepper and salt, 
into an earthen jug or pan, and pour one gallon of water. 
Cover it very close, and hake it with the bread. 

The cook should be charged to save tM^oiling of every 
piece of meat, ham, tongue, &c. however salt : and U is 
easy to use only a part of that, and the rest of fresh wa- 
ter, and by the addition of more vegetables, the bones of 
the meat used in the family, the pieces of meat that come 
from table on the plates, and rice, indian meal or barley, 
there will be some gallons of nutritious soup two or three 
times a-week. The bits of meat should be only warmed 
in the soup, and remain whole ; the bones, <fcc. boiled till 
they yield their courishmeot. If the things are ready to 
put in the boiler as soon as the meat is served, it will save 
lighting fire, and second cooking. 

Ta^e turnips, carrots, leeks, potatoes, the outer leaves of 
lettuce, celery, or any sort of vegetable that is at hand; 
cut them small, and throw in, with the thick part of peas, 
after they have been pulped for soup, cracked corn or 
coarse meal. 

Should the soup be poor of meat, the long boiling of the 
bones, and different ve^'etables, will afford sn-eat courish- 
inent. In every family t^ere is some superfluity ; and if 
it be prepared witli cleanliness and care, the benefit will be 
very great to the receiver, and the satisfaction no less to 
ihe jiver. 

It very rarely happens that servants object to seconding 
the kindness of their super'ors to the poor ; but should the 
^ A 2 



Z^O DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

cook in any family think the adoption of this plan too 
troublesome, a gratuity at the end of the winter miglit re- 
pay her, if the love of her fellow creatures failed of doing 
it a hundred fold. Did she readily enter into it, she 
would never wash away, as useless, the peas &c. of which 
soup or gruel had been made ; broken potatoes, the green 
heads of celery, the necks and feet of fow Is, and particu- 
larly the shanks of mutton, and various other articles 
which in preparing dinner for the family are thro^vri aside. 

Fish affords great nourishment, and that not by the part 
eaten only, but the bones, heads, and fins, which contain 
an isinglass. When the fish is served, let the cook put by 
some of the water, and stew it in the above; as likewise 
add the gravy that is in the dish, until she obtain all the 
goodness. If to be eaten by itself, wheu it makes a de- 
lightful broth, she should add a verj' small bit of onion, 
some pepper, zfd" a little rice-flour rubbed down smooth 
with it. 

But strained, it makes a delicious improvement to the 
meat-soup, particularly for the sick ; and when such arc 
to be supplied, the milder parts of the spare bones and 
meat should be used for them, with little, if any, of the li^ 
quor of the salt meats. 

The fat should not be taken off the broth or sonp, as tile 
poor like it, and are nourished by it. 

An excellent Soup /o?' the iveekly. 

Put two cow-heels, and a breast of mutton into a larife 
pan with four ounces of rice, one onion, twenty Jamaica 
peppers, and twenty black, a turnip, a carrot, and four 
gallons of water; cover with brown paper, and bake six 
hours. 

Sago. 

Put a tea-cupful ofsajrointo a quart of water, and a bit 
of lemon-peel; when thickened, grate some <ri»ger, and 
add half a pint of raisin wine, brown sugar, and two spoon- 
fiils of Geneva ; boil all up together. 

It is a most supporting thing for those whom disease has 
left ver}- feeblo. 

Caudle for the Sick and Ijijiiig-in. 

Set three quarts of water o'i the fire ; mix smooth as 
fliuch fine iadian raeal ns will thicken the wliole, with a 



TARIOrS RECEIPTS. 231 

pint of cold water; wlien boiliDg, pour the latter in, and 
twecty Jamaica peppers in fine powder; boil to a ^ood 
middling th>ckcfcgs ; then add sugar, hall a pint of well 
fermented table-beer, and a glass of gin. Boil all. 

7 bis mess twice, and once or twice of broth, will be of 
incalculalle service. 

There is not a tetter occasion for chariiaHecommisera- 
lion than when a person is sick. A bit of meat or pudding 
sent unexpectedly has often been the means of recalling 
long- lost appetite. 

K"or a}e the indigent alone the grateful receivers ; for 
in the highest houses a real <rood sick-cook is rarely met 
with ; and many who possess all the goods of fortune, have 
attiil uted the first return of health to an appetite excited 
by good kitchen-jphysic as it may be called. 



PJ/?r XIIL 



VARIOUS RECEIPTS, kl^B DIRECTIONS 
TO SERVAIN^TS. 

VARIOUS RECEIPTS. 

To make soft Foinatnm. 

BEAT half a pound cfunsaUed fresh lard in common 
water ; then soak ?jid beat it in two rose-waters, drain it, 
and beat it with two spoonfuls of brandy ; let it drain from 
this ; add to it some essence of lemon, and keep it in small 
pots. 

Another nay. — Soak half a pound of clear beef-mar- 
row, and a pound of unsalted fresh lard in water, two or 
three days,' changing and beating it ever} day. Put it 
into a sieve ; and when dry, into a jar, and the jar into a 
sauce-pan of water. When melted, pour it into a basin, 
and beat it i^-ith two spoonfuls of brandy ; drain off the 
brandy ; and then add essence of lemon, bergamot, or any 
other scent that is liked. 

Hard Poniaium. 

Prepare equp.l quantities of beef'marrow and mutton- 
suet as before, using the brandy to preserve it. and adding 



2Stjt DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

the scent : then pour it into moulds, or if you have nOnCj 
into phials of the size you ctioose the rolls to oe of. When 
cold, break the bottles, cltar away the glass carefully, 
and put paper round the rolls. 
The true Court Piaster ^ for cuts, scratches, pimples, &c. 

Cut the best isinglass In small pieces, and dissolve in 
brandy or rum, of good proof, so as to produce a strong 
viscid solution; spread this with a soft I rush upon black 
or flesh coloured taffety, very thin but regular, when this 
first coat is quite dry, repeat a second and a third time, 
and after that a thin coat of Peruvian balsam, laid on io 
like manner. 

To make Wash-halls. 

Shave thin two pounds of new white soap into about 
a tea cupful of rose water; then pour as much boiling 
water on as will soften it. Put into a brass pan a pint of 
sweet oil, a little oil of almonds, half a pound of sperma- 
ceti, and set all over the fire till dissolved ; then add the 
soap, and half an ounc- of camphor that has first been re- 
duced to powder by rub' in-; it in a mortar w ith a few drops 
of spirit of wine, or lavender-water, or any other scent. 
Boil ten minutes; then pour it into a ba«in, and stir it till it 
is quite thick enouj:]] to roll up into hard bails, which must 
then be done as soon as possible. If essence is used, stir it 
& quick after it is taken off the fire, that the flavour may 
not fiy off. 

Paste for Chopped Hands, and which will preserve them 
smooth hy constant use. 

Mix a quarter of a pound of unsalted hog's lard, which 
faps Veen washed in common and then rose-water, with the 
yolks of twonew laid egjjs, and alar2;e spoonful of honey. 
Adfl as much fine oatmeal, or almond-paste, as will work 
into a paste. 

Hungary Water. , * 

To one pint of hioihly rectified spirit of wine, put an 
Ounce of oil of rosemary, and two drachms of essence of 
ambero^ris; shake the bottle w^ll several times, then let 
the coiK remniii out tvynty-foiir hours. After a month, 
duri'i«>; which time shake it daily, put the water into small 
ferottlesi 



VikRIOUS RtCEIPTS. 



2§> 



Honey Water. 

Take a pint of spirit as above, and three drschms of es- 
sence of ambergris ; shake theni ^vell daily. 
Lavender Water. 

Take a pint of spirit as above, essential oil of lavenders 
one ounce, essence of ambergris tv.o drachms; put all into 
a quait bottle, and shake it extrenielv ^vell. 
An excellent Water to prevent hedr from falliiig off^ and 
to thicken it. 

Put four pounds of unadulterated honey into a still, 
\Tith twelve handfuls of the tendrils of vines, and the same 
quantity of rosemary-tops. Distil as cool and as slowly as 
possible. The liquor may be allowed to drop till it begins 
to taste sour. 

Black Paper for drawing Patterns. 

Blix and smooth lamp-black and sweet oil ; with a bit 
of flannel, cover a sheet or two of large writing paper 
with this mixture ; then daub the paper dry with a bit of 
fine linen, and keep it by for using in the following man- 
ner : 

Put the black side on another sheet of paper, and fasten 
the corners together with a small pin. Lay on the back 
of the black paper the pattern to be drawn, and go over it 
with the point of a steel bodkin ; the black paper will thea 
leave the impression of the pattern on the under sheet, oq 
which you must now draw it with ink. 

If you draw patterns on cloth, or muslin do it with a 
pen dipped in a bit of slone blue, a bit of sugar, and a lit- 
tle water mixed smooth in a tea-cup, in which it will be 
always ready for use ; if fresh, wet to a due consistence 
as wanted. 

To cement broken China, 

Beat lime into the mose impalpavile powder, sift it 
throus;h fine muslin : then tie some into a thin muslin ; put 
on the edges of the broken china some white of egg, then 
dust some lime quickly on the same^ and unite them ex* 
actly. 

An excellent Stucco, which vAU etdherc to Wood-work. 

Take a bushel of the I est stone-lime, a pound of yellow 
ochre, and a quarter of a pound of brown umber, all in fine 
powder. Mix them with a sufficient quanti ty of hot (but 



284 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

not boiUug) water, to a proper thickness : and lay it oi^ 
with a whitewash brusli, which should be new. If the 
wall be quite smooth, one or two coats will do ; but each 
must be dry before the next is put on. The mouth of 
March is the best season for doino; this. 

Masons Washes for Stucco, 

Blue. — To four pounds of blue vitriol, and a pound of 
the best whiting, put a gallon of water, in an iron or brass 
pot. Let it boil an hour, stirring it all the time. Then 
po«ir it into an earthen pan ; and set it by for a day or two 
till the colour is settled. Pour oft* the water, and mix 
the colour with white washer's size. Wash the walls three 
or four times, according as is necessary. 

Yellow. — Dissolve in soft water over the fire equal quan- 
tities separately of umber, bright ochre, and blue black. 
Then put it into as much white wash as you think suffi- 
cient for the work, some of each, and stir it all together. 
If either cast predominates, add more of the others till you 
have the proper tint. 

The most beautiful white-wash is made by mixing the 
lime and size with skimmed milk instead of water. 
To take Stains of any kind out of Linen. 

Stains caused hy Acids. — Wet the part and lay on it 
some salt of wormwood. Then rub it without diluting it 
with more water. 

Another. — Let the cloth imbibe a little water without 
dippiBg, and hold the part over a lighted match at a due 
distance. The spots will be removed by the sulphureou3 
gas. 

Another way. — Tie up in stained part some pearl-ash ; 
then scrape some soap into cold soft water to make a lather, 
and boil ihe linen till the stain disappears. 

Stains of JVinc, Fruit, tf-c. after they have been long in 
the Linen. — Rub tjie part on each si<ie with soap. Then 
lay on a mixture of starch in cold water very thick ; rub 
it well in, and expose the linen to the sun and air till the 
ftain comes out. If not removed in three or four days, 
iiib that off, and renew the process. When dry it may be 
sprinkled with a little water. 

Many other stains may be ^aken out by dipping the 
linen in sour butt: rmilk, and dry ins it in a hot sun. Theu 
wash it in cold water, and dry it, two or three times avday 



TARIOUS RECEIPTS. Ig5 

Iron-mmilds should be Abetted, then laid on a hot plate, 
and a little essential salt of lemons put on the part- 
If the liuen becomes dry, wet it and renew the process; 
observing that the plate is kept boiling hot. Much of the 
powder sold under the name of salt of lemons is a spuri- 
ous preparation ; and therefore it is necessary to dip the 
linen in a good deal of water, and wash it as soon as the 
stain is removed, to prevent the part from being worn into 
holes by the acid. 

To take out the Mildew. — Mix soft soap with starch 
powdered, half as much salt, and the juice of a lemon ; lay 
it on the part on both sides with a painter's brush. Let it 
lie on the grass day and night till the stahi comes out. 
To make Flannels keep their colour and not shrink. 
Put them into a pail, and pour boiling water on, letting 
them lie till cold, the first time of washing. 

To preserve Furs and Woollen from Moths. 
Let the former be occasionally combed while in use, 
and the latter be brushed and shaken. When not wanted, 
dry them first, let them be cool, then mix among them 
bitter apples from the apothecary's, in small muslin bags, 
sewing them in several folds of linen, carefully turned in 
at the edges, and keep from damp. 

To dye the linings of Furniture, &c. 
Buff or Salmon-colour, according to the depth of the 
hue. — Rub down on a pewter plate a little Spanish arnat- 
to, and then boil it in a pail of water a quarter of an hour. 
Put into it two ounces of pot-ash, stir it round, and instant- 
ly put in the lining; stir it about all the time it is boilincr, 
which must be five or six minutes ; then put it into cold 
pump water, and hang the articles up singly without wring- 
ing. When almost dr}% fold and mangle it. 

Pink. — The calico must be washed extremely clean 
and be dry. Then boil it in two gallons of soft water, and 
four ounces of alum ; take it out, and dry in the air. In 
the mean time boil in the alum-water two handfuls of wheat 
bran till quite slipper)^, and then strain it. Take two 
scruples of cochineal, and two ounces of grgall finely 
pounded and sifted ; mix with it the liquor by little at a 
time. Then put into the liquor the calico ; and boil till 
it is almost wasted, moving it about. Take out the cali- 
co, and wash it in chamber-lye first, and in cold water af- 



286 DOMESTIC COOK Ell r. 

ter : then rinse it in water-starch strained, and dry it quick 
without hauglnjn; it in folds. Mangle it very liighly, un- 
less you have it calendered, which is best. 

Bhie. — Let the calico be Avashed clean and dried ; then 
mix some of Scot's liquid blue in as much w^ater as will 
be sufficient to cover the things to be dyed, and put 
some starch to it to give a light stiiTness. Dry a bit to 
see wln.ther the colour is deep enough ; then set the linen, 
6ic. into it, and Avash it ; then dry the articles singly, and 
mangle or callender them. 

To dye Gloves to look like York tan or Limerick, accord- 
ing io the deepness of the dye. 

Put some saffron into a pint of soft water boiling hot, 
and let it infuse all night ; next morning wet the leather 
over wiih a brush. The tops should be sewn close to pre- 
vent the colour from getting in. 

To dye White Gloves a beautiful Purple. 

Boil four ounces of logwood, and two ounces of roche 
alum, in three pints of soft w^ater till half wasted. Let it 
stand to be cold, after straining. Let the gloves be nice- 
l}^ mended ; then w ith a brush do over them, and when 
dry repeat it. Twice is sufficient, unless the colour is to 
be very dark. When dry, rub off the loose dye with a 
coarse cloth. Beat up the Avhite of an egg, and with a 
sponge rub it over the leather. The dye will stain the 
liands, but wetting them with vinegar will take it off, be- 
fore they are w'ashed. 
J Liquor to tvash Old Deeds, etc on Paper or Parchment 

when the writing is ohliterated, or when sunk, to make 

it legible. 

Take five or six galls, bruise them, and put them into 
a pint of strong white wine ; let it stand in the sun two 
days. Then dip a brush into the wine, and wash the part 
of the writing which is sunk : and by the colour you will 
see Afhcther it is strong enough of the galls. 
To prevent the Rot in Sheep. 

Keep them in the pens till the dew is off the grass. 
To prevent green Hay from firing. 

Stuff a sack as full of straw or hay as possible ; tie the 
moutli with a cord; and make the rick round the sack, 
drawing it up as the rick advances in height, and quite 



DIRECTIONS TO SHRVANIS. 4^87 

out wheo finished. The funnel thus left in the centre 
preserves it. - 

To destroy Crickets, 

Put Scotch snufTupon the holes where they come out. 
"directions to servants. 
To clean Calico Furniture when taken down for the siaiir 
mer. 

Shake off all the loose dust, then lightly brush with a 
small long-haired furniture brush ; after which wipe it close- 
ly with clean flannels, and rub it with dry bread. 

If properly done, the curtains will look nearly as well 
as at first, and if the colour be not light, they will not re- 
quire washing for years. 

Fold in large parcels, and put carefully by. 

While the furniture remains up, it should be preserved 
from the sun and air as much as possible, which injure 
delicate colours ; and the dust may be blown off with bel- 
lows. 

By the above mode curtains may be kept clean, even 
to use with tlie linings new ly dipped. 
To clean Plate, 

Boil an ounce of prepared hartshorn-powder in a quart 
of water; while on the fire, put into it as much plate as 
ihe vessel will hold ; let it boil a little, then take it out, 
drain it over the sauce-pan, and dry it over the fire. Put 
in more and serve the same till you have done. Then put 
into the water some clean linen rags till all is soaked up. 
When dry, they will serve to clean the plate, and are the 
very best tilings to clean the brass knockers, locks and fin- 
ger-plates of doors. Wlien the plate is quite drj^, it must 
be rubbed bright with leather. This is a verj' nice mode. 
In many plate-powders there is a mixture of quicksilver, 
wliich is very injurious ; and, among other disadvantages, 
it makes silver so brittle, that from a fall it will break. 
To clean Looking-glasses. 

Remove the fly-stains, and other soil, by a damp rag ; 
then polish with woollen cloth and powder blue. 
To preserve Gilding and clean it. 

It is not pos&ible to prevent flies from staining the gild- 
ing without covering it ; before which, blow off the liglit 
dust, and pass a feather or clean bmsh over it : then witfi 
*B 



2SS DOMESTIC COOKERV. 

stripes of paper cover the frames of your glasses, and doni 
remove it till the flies are gone. 

Linen takes off the gilding, and deadens its brightness ; 
it should therefore never be used for Aviping it. 
To clean Paint. 

Never use a cloth, but take oft" the dust with a little 
long-haired brush, after blowing off the loose parts witli 
the bellows. With care, paint will look w ell for a length 
of time. When soiled, dip a sponge or a bit of flannel in- 
to soda and water, wash it off quickly, and dry immediate- 
ly, or the strength of the soda will eat off the colour. 

When wainscot requires scouring, it should be done 
from the top downwards and the soda be prevented from 
running on the unclean part as much as possible, or marks 
will be made which will appear after the whole is finished. 
One person should dry with old linen as fast as the other 
had scoured off the dirt and washed the soda off. 
To clean Paper Hangings. 

First blow off the dust with the bellows. Divide a 
white loaf of eight days old into eight parts. Take the 
crust into your hand, and beginning at the top of the pa- 
per, wipe it downwards in the lightest manner witli the 
crumb. Dont cross nor go upwards.^ The dirt of the 
paper and the crumbs will fall together. ObseiTe, yci 
must not wipe above half a yard at a stroke, and after do- 
ing all the upper part, go round again, beginning a little 
above where you left off. If you dont do it extremely 
lightly, you will make the dirt adhere to the paper. ^ 

It will look like new if properly done. 

To give a fine Colour to Mahogany/. 

Let the tables be washed perfectly clean with vinegar, 
having first taken out any ink stains there may be with 
spirit of salt ; but it must be used with the greatest care, 
and only touch the part affected, and be instantly washed 
off. Use the following liquid ; into a pint of cold drawn 
linseed oil, put a little alkanet-root, and a little rose-pink, 
in an earthen vessel ; let it remain all night, then stirring 
well, rub some of it all over the tables with a linen rag; 
when it has lain some time, mb it bright with linen cloths. 

Eating-tables should be covered with mat, oil-cloth, or 
baize, to prevent staining, and be instantly rubbed when 
^he dishes arc taken off, while still warm. 



DIRECTIONS TO SEEVANTS. 289 

To take Ink out of Mahogany. 

Dilute half a tea-spoonful of oil of vitriol with a large 
spoonful of water, and touch the part with a feather ; 
watch it, for if it stays too lono: it will leave a white mark. 
It is therefore better to rub it quick, and repeat if not 
quite removed. 

To clean Flcor-clotks. 

Sweep, then wipe them with a flannel ; and when all 
dust and spots are removed, rub Avith a waxed flannel, and 
then w ith a dry plain one ; tut use little wax, and rub only 
enough with the latter to give a little smoothness, or it may 
endanger falling. 

Washing now^ and then with milk after the above sweep- 
ing and dry-rubbing them, give as beautiful a look, and 
ihey are less slippery. 

To dust Carpets and Floors. 

Sprinkle used tea-leaves on them, then sweep carefully- 

The former should not be swept frequently with a whisk 
brush, as it wears them fast ; only once a week, and the 
other times with the leaves and a hair-brush. 

Pine carpets should be gently done with a hair hand- 
brush, such as for clothes, on the knees. 
To clean Carpets. 

Take up the carpet, let it be well beaten, then laid dowL»^ 
and brushed on both sides with a hand-brush ; turn it the 
right side upwards, and scour it with ox-gall, and soap and 
water, very clean, and dry it with linen cloths. Then 
lay it on grass, or hang it up to dry. 

To gire to Boards a beautiful appearance. 

After washing them very nicely clean with soda and 
^varm water, and a brush, wash them with a veiy large 
sponge and clean water. Both times, observe to leave no 
spot untouched ; and clean straight up and down, not cross- 
ing from board to board ; then dry with clean cloths, rub- 
bing^ hard up and down in the same way. 

The floor should not be often wetted, but very thorough- 
ly when done ; and once a(-week dry rubbed with hot sand, 
and a heavy brush, the right way of the boards. 

The sides of stairs or passages on which are, carpets, for 
floor-cloth, should be washed with sponge instead of linen 
'^r flannel, and the edges will not be soiled. Different spor- 



"290 D03IEST1C COOKERY. 

ges should be kept for the two above uses; and those aiui 
the brushes should be well washed when done with, and 
kept in dry places. 

To extract Oil from Boards or Stone. 

Make a strong ley of pearl-ashes and soft water ; and add 
as much unslaked lime as it will take up ; stir it together, 
and then let it settle a few minutes ; bottle it, and stop 
close ; have ready some water to lower it as used, and 
scour the part with it. If the liquor should lie long on 
the boards, it will draw out the colour of them ; therefore 
do it with care and expedition. 

To blacken the fronts of Stone Chimney-pieces. 

JNIix oil-varnish with lamp-black, and a little spirit of 
turpentine to thin it to the consistence of paint. Wash 
the stone with soap and water very clean ; then sponge it 
with clear water ; and when perfectly dry, brush it over 
twice with this colour, letting it dry between the times. 
It looks extremely well. The lamp-black must be sifted 
first. 

To preserve Irons from Rust. 

Melt fresh mutton-suet, smear over the iron with it while 
liot; then dust it well with unslaked lime pounded, and 
tied up in a musUn. Irons so prepared will keep many 
mouths. Use no oil for tliem at any time, except salad 
oil ; there being water in all other. 

1; ire-irons should be kept wrapt in baize, in a dry place, 
whf n not used. 

Another ?yfl?/.— Beat into tliree pounds of unsalted liogs 
iitrd, two drams of camphor sliced thin, till it is dissolv- 
ed ; then take as much black-lead as will make it of the 
colour of broken btecl. Dip a rag into it, and rub it 
thick on the stove, <Sjc. and the steel will never rust, even 
if wet. When it is to be used, the grease must be washed 
off with hot water, and the steel be dried before polishing. 
To take Rust out of SteeL 

Cover the steel with sweet oil well rubbed on it, and in 
forty- eight hours use unslaked lime finely powdered, to 
rub until all the rust disappears. 

To clean the Back of the Grate, the inner Hearth, 
and the fronts of Cast-Iron Stoves. 

Boil about a quarter of a pou nd of the best black-lead, 
with a pint of small beer, and a bit of soap the size of a 



DIRECTIONS TO SEBYAMT5* 2%l 

•walnut. When that is melted, dip a painter's brush, and 
wet the grate, having first brushed oflf all the soot and 
dust : then take a hard brush, and rub it till of a beautiiul 
brightness. 

Another way to clean Cast-Iron, and black Hearths. 
Mix black-lead and whites of eggs well beaten together: 
dip a painter's brush, and wet all over, then rub it bright 
with a hard brush. 

To take the Black off the bright Bars of polished 
Stoves in a few Minutes, 
Rub them well with some of the following mixture on 
a bit of broad-cloth; when the dirt is removed, wipe them 
clean, and polish with glass, not sand-paper. 

The mixture. — Boil slowly one pound of soft soap ia 
two quarts of water, to one. Of this jelly take three or 
four spoonfuls, and mix to a consistence wiUi emery. No. 3* 
To clean Tin Covers^ and Pewter Ware, 
Get the finest whiting, which is only sold in large cakes, 
the small being mixed with sand ; mix a little of it pow- 
dered, with the least drop of sweet oil, and rub well, and 
wipe clean ; then dust some dry whiting in a muslin bag 
over, and rub bright with diy leather. The last is to pre- 
vent rust, which the cook must be careful to guard against 
by wiping dry, and putting by the fire when they come 
from the parlour; for if but once hung up without, the 
steam will rust the inside. 

To prevent the creaking of a Door, 
Rub a bit of soap on the hinges. 

A strong Paste for Paper. 
To two large spoonfuls of fine flour, put as much strong 
beer as will make it of a due consistence, and boil half an 
hour. Let it be cold before it is used. 

Fine Blacking for Shoes. 
Take four ounces of ivory black, three ounces of the 
coarsest sugar, a table spoonful of sweet oil, and a pint 
of small beer ; mix them gradually cold. 



^ B2 



292 



GENERAL REMARKS ON DINNERS. 

Things used at first Cmtrses. — Various Soups. Fish 
dressed many ways. Turtle. Mock Turtle. Boiled 
meats and stewed. Tongue. Ham. Bacon. Chawlsof 
Bacon, Turkey and Fowls, chiefly boiled. Rump, Sir- 
loin, and Ribs of Beef roasted. Leff, Saddle, and other 
roast Mutton. RoaFt Fillet, Loin, Pfeck, Shoulder and 
breast of Veal. Leg of Lamb. Loin. Fore- Quarter. 
Chine. Lamb's-head and Mince. Mutton stuffed and 
roasted. Steaks, variously prepared. Ragouts and Fri- 
cassees Meat Pies raised, and in Dishes. Patties of Meat, 
Fish, and Fowl. Stewed Pigeons. Venison. Leg of 
Pork, Chine, Loin, Spare-rib. Rabbits. Hare. Pud- 
dings, boiled and baked. Vegetables, boiled and stewed, 
Calfs Head different ways. Pigs Feet and Ears differ- 
ent ways. In large Dinners, two Soups and two dishes of 
Fish. 

Things for second Courses. — Birds: and Game of all 
forts. Shell-fish, cold and potted. Collared and Potted 
Fish. Pickled ditto. Potted Birds. Ribs of Lamb roasted-. 
BraAvn. Vegetables, stewed or in sauce. French Beans. 
Peas. Asparagus. Cauliflower. Fricassee. Pickled 
Oysters, Spinach. Stewed Celery. Sea Cale. Fruit 
Tarts. Preserved- bruit Tarts. Pippins stewed. Cheese- 
cakes, various sorts. All the list of Sweet Dishes of 
which abundance are given from page 187 to 208, with 
directions for preparing theni ; sucli as Creams, Jellies, 
and all the finer sorts of Puddings, Mince Pics, &c. Oni- 
let. Macaroni. Oysters in Scallops, stewed or pickled. 

Having thus named the sort of things used for the 
*wo courses, the reader will think of many others. For 
removes of Soup and Fish, one or two joints of Meat 
or Fowl are served; and for one small course, the ar- 
ticles suited to the second must make a part. Where 
Vegetables and Fowls, &x. are twice dressed, they add to 
the appearance of the table the first time ; three sweet 
(hings may form the second appearance without greater 
♦expense. 

In some hous( s, one dish at a time is sent up with the 
vegetables or sauces proper to if, and this in succcssitin 



GENERAL REMARKS ON DINNERS. 293 

hot and hot. In others, a course of Soup and Fish : then 
Meats and boiled Fowls, Turkeys, &c. Made Dishes 
and Game follow ; and lastly, Sweet Dishes : but these 
are not the common modes. 

It is worthy observation here, that common cooks do 
not think of sending up such articles as are in the house 
unless ordered ; though, by so doing, the addition of a 
collared or pickled thing, some Fritters, fried Patties, 
or quick-make Dumplings, Avould be useful when there 
liappen to be accidental visitors : and at all times it is 
right to better the appearance of the table rather than let 
things spoil below, by which the expense of a family is 
more increased than can be easily imagined. Vegetables 
are put on the side-table at large dinners, as likewise sau- 
ces, and servants bring them round : but some inconve- 
niences attend this plan ; and, when there are not many to 
wait, delay is occasioned, besides that by awkwardness 
the clothes of the company may be spoiled. If the table 
is of a due size, the articles alluded to will not fill it too 
much. 

SUPPERS. 

Hot suppers are not much in use where people dine 
very late. When required, the top and bottom, or either, 
may be Game. Fowls. Rabbit. Boiled Fish, Oysters 
stewed or scalloped. French Beans. Cauliflower, in 
white Sauce. Brocoli with eggs. Stewed Spinach and 
ditto. Sweetbreads. Small Birds. Mushrooms. Pota- 
toes. Scallop, &c. Cutlets. Roast Onions. Salmagundi. 
Buttered Eggs on Toast. Cold Neat's Tongue. Ham. 
Collared things. Hunter's Beef sliced. Rusks buttered. 
Grated Hung Beef with butter, with or without Rusks. 
Grated Cheese round, and Butter dressed in the middle 
of a plate. Radishes ditto. Custards in glasses with Sip- 
pets. Oysters cold or pickled. Potted Meats. Fish. 
Birds. Cheese, &c. Good plain Cake sliced. Pies of 
Birds or Fruit. Crabs. Lobsters. Prawns. Cray-fish, 
Any of the list of sweet things. Fruits. A Sandwich set 
with any of the above articles, placed a little distance from 
each other, on the table, looks well; without the tray, if 
preferred. 



2^ DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

The lighter the things, the better they appear, and glass 
intermixed has the best effect. Jellies, different coloured 
things, and flowers, add to the beauty of the table. An 
elegant supper may be served at a small expense by those 
who know how to make trifles that are in the house from 
the greatest part of the meal. 

Nete, — Any of the following things may be served as a 
relish, with the cheese, after dinner., Baked or pickled 
Fish done high. Pickled Herring. Sardinias, which 
eat like Anchovy but are larger. Anchovies, Potted 
Lampreys. Potted Birds made high. Caviare and Sip- 
pets of Toast. Salad. Radishes. French Pie. (old 
Butter. Potted Cheese, Anchovy Toast, &c. Before 
serving a Herring, it is usual to cut to the bones without 
dividing, at the distance of two inches, from head to tail, 
jjcfore served. 



INDEX. 



A. 
ACIDS, stains caused by, in 
linen, various ways of taking 
out, 284 
Adulterations in the making of 

bread, how to detect, 240 
Ale, to brew, 241 

or strong beer, to bresv, 242 
to refine, 243 
A'mond puddings, 145 

baked, 145 
small, ib. 
-custard, in 
cheesecakes, ib. 
two other ways, 17'2 
cream, 194 
»?;?26^r pudding, a very fine one, 

147 
Anchovies, to choose, 133 

to keep them when 
the liquor dries, ib. 
sauce 130 
toast, 206 

aiiotlier wav, 
ib. 

essence of, 133 
to make trout taste 
like anchovies, ib. 
Apple ivater for the sick, 277 
Apples, to prepare them for 
puffs, 167 

to scald, 199 
dried, 216 

dumplings or pudding?, 
158 

fool, 191 
tart, 165 
marmalade, 215 
jelly to serve to table, 
198 ; another 199 

and rice, souffle, of 
18r 



Apple, or gooseberry trifle, 191- 
jelly for preserving apri- 
cots, or for any sort of sweet- 
meats, 215 
pie, 163 

hot, ib, 
pudding, baked, 147 
another, 152 
puffs, 167 

sauce for goose and roast 
pork, 127 

to keep for several 
months, 224 

stewed golden pippins 
199 

red apples in jelly, 215 
Apricots, in brandy, 210 
to dry in half, ib, 
a beautiful preserve of 
apricots, 209 

to preserve green, ib. 
to preserve in jelly, ib, 
apple-jellv, ib. 
cheese, 210 
pudding, an excellent 
one, 'iSS 

dumplings, 158 
Arro-w-root jellv, for the sick, 

269 
Artichokes, to dress, 174 
bottoms, 175 
Jerusalem, ib. 
bottoms, to keep for 
the winter, ib. 
Asses milk, 274 

artificial, three 
ways of making, ib. 
B 
Bacon, to choose, 45 
excellent, 85 
the manner of curing 
bacon, ib. 



296 



Barberries, to prepare tor tart- 
lets, 208 

in bunches, 209 
.Barley-vfsXer, 276; another, ib. 

gruel, '!t75 
Bass sea, to choose, 25 
to boil, 29 

streaked, to choose 25 
Batter pudding", *150 

with meat, 151 
Bean (green) pudding, 155 
Beansy to dress, 176 

fricasseed Windsor, ib. 
French, 177 
Beefy to choose, 44 
to keep, 51 

to salt for eating imme- 
diately, ib. 

to salt red ; which is ex- 
tremely good to eat fresh 
from the pickle, or to hang 
to dry, ib. 

the Dutch way to salt, 52 
^-la-mode, ib. 
a fricandeau of, 53 
stewed rump of, ib. 

another way, 54 
rump roasted, 54 
stewed brisket, ib. 
pressed beef, ib. 
hunter's beef, 55 
an excellent mode of 
dressing, ib. 
collared, ib. 
i?<?^ steaks to dresS; 5G 

and oyster-sauce, ib. 
another way ib. 
Italian, ib. 
collop, ib. 
palates, 57 

cakes for side-dish of 
dressed meat, ib. 

potted two ways, ib. 
to dress the inside of a 
cold sirloin, ib. 

fricassee of cold roast 
beef, 58 

to dress cold beef that 
has not been done enough, 
called beef-oUves, ib. 



Beejy to dress the sanie, called 
Sanders, 58, minced, ib. 

to dress tlie same called 
cecils ib. 
hashed, 59 
a-la vingrette, ib. 
round of beef, ib. 
rollcd,that equals hare,lb. 
heart, 61 
steak pie, 138 

pudding, 153 
baked, ib. 
a pickle for beef, that 
will keep for years 84 

pasty to eat as well as ve- 
nison, 169 
patties, 167 
broth, 268 
tea, 269 
Beer (strong), to brew, 242 
table, excellent, 243 
to refine, ib. 
Beet-rooty different ways of 
using, 180 

to preserve to eat 
in the winter, 181 
Birdsy a very economical way 

of potting, 105 
Biscuit, orange, 213 
cake, 234 
of fruit, 219 
hard, 241 
plain and very crisp,24l 
Naples, 235 
Savoy, 234 
Black fish to' choose, 25 
to boil 29 
to stew, 34 
to bake, ib. 

caps, two waysofmaki 
ing, 199 

pudding, 81 
two other ways, ib. 
Blacking for shoes, fine, 291 
Blanching a rabbit, fowl. Sec. 

explained, 108 
Blanc-mangey or Blamange, 190 
Blue fish, to choose, 25 
Boardsy\.o^\ve them a beauti- 
ful appearance, 289 



w 



Boards, to extract oil from, 290 
Boiling' meat, observations on, 

47 
Braising explained, 99 

chickens braised, 100 
Brandy pudding', 156 
cream, 193 

apricots or peaches in 
brandy, 210 

cherries in brandy, 2l4 
Braivn, to choose, 45 
souse for, 81 
mock, 80 
sauce, 126 
Breads to make, 227 to 241 
economical, 239 
management of flour 
238 

rice and wheat bread, 
239 

French bread, ib. 
to discover whether 
bread has been adulterated 
with whiting or chalk, 240 
cake, common, 232 
pudding, boiled, 149 
another, and richer, 
ib. 

puddings, a little, 148 
and butter pudding, 
146 

browfi-bread pudding, 
149 

brown-bread ice, 201 
Bre-wkht (Home), 241 to 251 
BrocoUy to dress, 176 
Broth. A quick made broth 
for the sick, 267 

a clear one that will keep 
long, ib, 

a %'ery supporting one a- 
gainst any kind of weakness, 
268 

of beef, mutton, veal^ ib. 
Other broths are under differ- 
ent names, as Chicken broth, 
&c. 
Brown-bread pudding, 149 

ice, 201 
Bro-wmng to colour and flavour 
made dishes, 135 



Buckvfheat pancakes, 160 
Bun, a good plain one, 236 

richer ones, ib. 
Burnt C7-eam, two ways, 192 
Butter, to clarify, for potted 
things, 106 

to melt, 130 
to serve as a little dish, 
205 

orange butter, 200 
observations respecting 
it, in the dairy, 257 
to make,' 258 
to preserve, ib. 
to preserve it in pans, 
for winter use, ib. 

to manage creaih for 
whey-butter, 259 

to choose at market, 
260 
Buttered rice, 187 
lobsters, 41 
prawns and shrimps, 41 
Buttermilk, 259 

with bread or with- 
out, for the sick, 277 

sweet buttermilk, ib. 
pudding 156 
C 
Cabbages (red), to pickle, 185 
(red), to stew, 177 
two other ways ib. 

small to keep for 
the winter, 181 
Cakes, &c. 227 to 241 

observations on making 
and baking cakes, 227 

ice ing for cakes, 228 
to ice a very large cake, 
ib. 

a common cake, ib. 

a very 
good one, ib. 

an excellent cake, ib. 
a very fine one, 229 
rout drop-cakes, ib. 
flat cakes that will 
keep long in the house good, 
230 

little white cakes, ib. 
litt^ short cakes, ib. 



29b 



l^SEX. 



Cakes, plum-cake, 230 ; ano- 
ther av ay, 231 

very good common 
plum-cakes, ib. 

little ones, 
to keep long-, ib , 

a good pound cake, ib. 
a cheap seed-cake, 232 
another, ib. 
common bread-cake, ib. 
queen-cakes ; two ways 
of making, ib. and 233 
Shrewsbury cakes, ib. 
Tunbridg-e cakes, ib. 
rice cake ; two ways of 
« of making, ib. 

water cakes, ib. 
sponge-cakes, ib., an- 
other, without butter, 234 
tea-cakes, ib. 

as biscuits, ib. 
another sort, ib. 
biscuit-cake, ib. 
Johnny cake, 2o7 
slapjacks, ib. 
Yorkshire cake, 241 
Cake-trifle, 191 
Cale (sea), 181 

Calf s feet broth, two ways, 268 
jelly, 197 
another sort, ib. 
Calfs-head, to boil 69 
to hash, 70 
another way, ib. 
fricasseed, 71 
to collar, ib, 
pie, 139 
Calfs-liver^ broiled, 7^ 
roasted, ib, 
liver and lights to dress, 
73 
Calico furniture, to clean when 
taken down for the summer, 
287 
Camp vinegar 131 
To Candy any sort of fruit 208 
Capers to keep 187 

an excellent substitute 
for caper-sauce 129. 
Carpi to choose, 26 



Carp boiled, 34 
stewed, ib. 
baked ib. 
Carpets, to dust, 288 
to clean, ib. 
Carrier sauce for mutton, 128 
Carro/e of rice, 203 
Cfln'o^5,toboil, 179 
to stew, ib. 
to preserve, to eat in 
the winter, 181 

pudding 155 
soup 116 
Carvings directions for, xvi to 

xxiii 
Cast-irouy to clean stoves of 290 

another way, 291 
Candle for the sick, three ways 
of making, 272 

a flour caudle, good for 
babies- who have weak sto- 
machs, 272 

rice, ib. ; another, ib. 
cold, ib, 

to give away to the 
poor sick, and lying-in, 280 
Caulifotvers, to boil, 176 

in white sauce, ib. 
to dress with Par- 
mesan, ib. 
Caveach, pickled mackarel so 

called, 35 
Cecils^ 58 

Celery, to stew, 175 
Cement for broken china, 283 
Chant iUy cake, 191 
Charlotte, a 158 
Cheese, to pot, 205 

to roast, to come up af- 
tor dinner, 205 

Welsh-rabbit, 206 
toast, 206 

damson cheese, 218 
plum cheese, 216 
Clieese is also under different 
names, as cream-cheese, apri- 
cot cheese, &.c. 

Observations res- 
pecting it in the dair>', 
253 



2g# 



Cheese, to prepare rennet to 
turn the milk ; two ways 254 
to make cheese, 355 
to preserve it sound ib. 
to make sage-cheese, 
256 

cream cheese, ib. 
rush cream-cheese, 257 
CJieesecakes.WghX. paste for, 164 
way for making- 
them, 171 

a plainer sort, ib. 
another way, ib. 
lemon, ib. 

another, \72 
orange, ib. 

a very fine 
crust for them, when to be 
particularly nice, 162 
potatoe, 172 
almond, ib. 
two other ways, 173 
Cheese-puffs, 163 
Cherry-pie, 163 

Cherries, to keep (like currants) 
222 

in brandy, 214 
to dry cherries with 
sugar, 213 

without 
sugar, 214 

to dry them the best 
v/ay, ib. 

jam ib. 

to preserve, 222 
Chickens, to pot with ham, 67 
scallops of cold, 68 
fricassee of, 99 
10 pull chickens, 99 

- another way, 100 
to braise chickens, ib. 
chicken currie, ib. 

another 
i-Bore easily made, ib. 

chicken and parsley 
pie, 139 

chicken pie, 141 
raised crust for, 144 
broth, 269 
panada for the sick,270 



Chicken, to fatten cliickens in 

four or five days, 262 
Chimnetj-pieces, stone, to black- 
en the fronts of, 290 
China, broken, a cement for,283 
China-chiloo 91 

07'an^e juice, good to mix 
with water for fevers, 225 
Chocolate to prepare 273 

cream, 194 
Chopped hands, paste for, 282 
Clary wine, 247 
Cocoa, 274 
Clouted cYtSiTa 196 
Clam Soup 120 
Cockle ketchup 186 
Cod, to choose, 25 

observations on buying 
and dressing, 31 

head and shoulders, ib. 
crimp, 32 
sounds boiled, ib. 
broiled, ib, 
dressed, to look 
like small chickens, ib. 
sounds ragout, ib. 
currrie of cod, ib. 
salt, to dress, ib. 
pie, 137 
Coffee, to make, 273 

cream much admired, 
193 

milk, 273 
Colouring for soups or gravies^ 
111 

to stain jellies, ices, 
or cakes, 202 
CoUops, mutton, 89 

veal coUops 67. 
another way ib. 
Collops Scotch 69 

Veal dressed quick 67 
CooKERT for the sick '267 * 

for the poor 278 
Cough extract of malt for 244 
Court plaister to make 282 
Coiv-heels various ways of dres- 
sing 62 

jelly of useful for 
soups and gravies 111 



300 



Cotos management of 252 
Crabs to choose 26 
hot 42 

dressed cold, \h: 
Cracknuts 235 
Cracknels 236 

Cranberries different ways of 
dressing 225 

jelly 198 
and rice jelly ib. 
Creaking of doors how to pre- 
vent 291 
Cream. A cream 192 

an excellent one ib. 
burnt two ways of do- 
ing 192 

sack ib. 
brandy 193 

ratifia two ways of mak- 
ing ib. 

lemon ib. 
yellow lemon-cream 
without cream ib. 

white lemon-cream 194 
imperial ib. 
almond ib. 
snow ib. 

coffee-cream much ad- 
mired ib. 

chocolate ib. 
apple 195 

orange-cream an excel- 
lent one ib. 
Cream raspberry two ways of 
making ib. 

spinach ib 
clouted cream 196 
a froth to set on cream 
which looks and eats well ib, 
ice-creams, 201 
ratafia cream ib. 
To manage cream in the 
dairy for making whey-bul- 
ler 259 

to scald 259 
to keep 259 
syrup of 260 
Cream-cheese three ways of 
making it 256 

rush cream clieese 
two ways of making it %57 



Crickets to destroy 287 
Crust raised for meat-pies oc 
fowls 144 

for venison pasty 161 
raised for custards or 
fruit ib. 

excellent short 162 

another ib. 
another not sweet but rich 
ib. 

a very fine one for orange 
cheesecakes or sweetmeats 
when to be particularly nice 
ib. 

for meat pies or fowls 
&,c. see the article Paste. 
Cnciimbersio stew 175 

another way 
ib. 

and onions sliced 
to pickle 184 

to preserve them 
green ib. 

vinegar 131 
to pickle young 
cucumbers 184 
Cumberland pudding 150 
Curd star, 190 
Curds and cream 189 

another way, 
190 

and whey as in Italy 260 
puddings or puffs 156 
pudding boiled ib. 
Currants to keep 222 

dumplings or pudding 
158 

pie 164 

and raspberry pies or 
tarts ib. 

jelly red or black 215 
jam, black, red, or 
white ib. 

sauce for venison 128 
white currant shrub 
251 

water ice 201 
wine 245 

another way ib. 
black currant wine, ve- 
ry fine ib. 



301 



Currie rice boiied to eat with 

136 
Custards raised crust for 161 
cheap and excellent 
ones 170 

riciier ib. 
baked ib. 
lemon ib. 
almond 171 
a froth to set on 
custard, which looks and 
eats well 196 
Custard pudding 154 
Cutlets Maintenon 67 

Another way ib. 
other ways ib. 
Cyder to refine 243 

D 
Dairy, 252 to 267 
Damsons to keep (like cur- 
Kints 222 

to keep for winter 
pies 224 ; another way ib. 
cheese 218 
dumplings or pud- 
dings 158 
Deeds (old) a wash to make 

their writing legible, 286 
Dinners general remarks con- 
cerning-, 292 
Doors to prevent from creaking 

291 
Dnnk a very wholesome one 
for the sick, 275 

a refreshing one in a fe- 
ver ib. 

two other ways ib. 
a most pleasing drink 276 
draught for a cough, ib. 
Drops lemon 220 

ginger a good stomachic 
ib. 

peppermint ib. 
ratafia 221 
Ducks to choose 95 
to roast 101 
to boil ib. 
to steiv ib. 
to hash ib. 
wild to dress 107 
sauce for 124 



Duck pie 142 

Management of ducks 
in the poultry-yard, 264 
Dumplings 157 

suet 158 
apple ib. 
currant ib. 
damson ib. 
yeast ib. 
Dunelm of cold veal or fowl 66 
Dutch flummery, 189 

pudding or souster 147 
sauce for meat or fish 126 
To Dye the linings of furni- 
ture Sec. 285 

gloves, 286 
E 
Eels to choose 26 
spitchcock 38 
fried ib. boiled ib. 
broth ib. 

for the sick 269 
collared 38 
stewed (lamprey) 39 
soup 119 
pie 137 
jEj-j5 buttered 206 
Scotch 207 
to poach 206 
sauce 126 

wine for the sick 278 
little eggs for turtles 135 
mince pies 164 
different ways of prepar- 
ing eggs for the sick 271 

to choose e^i£ at mai'ket 
and to preserve them 263 
Elder -iviyie, 246 

white very much 
like Frontiniac 247 
Eider ivincy 246 

white very much 
like Frontiniac 247 
Essence of anchovies 133 
Eve^s pudding 150 
Extract of malt for coughs 244 

F 
Feathers care and management 

of 263 
Fevers. China orange juice, a 
vry useful thing to mix with 



30^ 



water in fevers, when llie 
fi'esh juice cannot be had, 
225 
Firmiiy 189 
Fish 25 to 43 

how to choose 25 
observations on dressing", 
27 

to force 135 
to fry small pan 38 
pie a remarkably fine one 
138 

gravy strong 123 
jelly to cover cold fish ib. 
sauce for fish pies 127 
sauce without butter 129 
sauce ib. 

a very fine fish sauce 128 
Flannds to make them keep 
tliair colour and not shrink, 
285 
Fioatin^-iaJand 188 

anotlfcsr way ib. 
Floor-cloths directions respect- 
ing them 238 
Floors to dust 23 
Fioimders to choose 27 
to fry 37 

an excellent way of 
drcssh)g a large one ib. 
soup 119 
Flour management of iu mak- 
ing bread 238 
Flummery 189 

Dutch ib. 
rice ib. 
J- c/&^ gooseberry 191 
apple ib. 
orange 192 
Forcemeat to make 134 

for patties, balls or 
stuffing ib. 

ingredients for ib. 
to force meat or 
fowls, ib. 

for cold savoury pies 
135 

very fine forcemeat 
balls for fish soups, or fish 
stewed on maigre days ib. 
for turtle ib. 



Forcing explained 134 
Fowls to choose 94 
boiled 97 

boiled with rice ib. 
Fv-iuls roasted 98 

broiled two ways ib. 
Davenport fowls ib. 
a very nice way to dress 
fowl for a small dish ib. 
to force 99 
to braise ib. 
fricassee of chickens ib. 
sauce for 135 
a good sauce for hiding' 
the bad colour of fowls 124 

white sauce for fricassee 
of fowls ib. 

sauce for cold fowls ib. 
mushroom sauce for 
fowls 125 

lemon whi:te sauce for 
boiled fowls ib. 
to blanch 108 
a dunelm of cold 66 
to roast wild fowl 106 
vingaret for cold fowl 
130 
col lops of cold chicken 68 
to pot chicken with ham 
67 

Management of fowls in 
tlie poultry yard 260 

to fatten them in four or 
five days2G2 
French lieansy to dress 176 

to preserve to eat 
in the winter, 181 
French pie 143 
bread 239 
rolls 240 
Friccmdeau of beef 5'Z 
of veal 68 

a cheaper 
but equally good one ib. ; an- 
other way ib. 
Fricasse^ of fowls rabbits &C,. 
sauce for 125 

crust for 149 
of parsnips 180 
Fritters 159 

Spanish ib. 



305 



Fritters potatoe, 160 

another way ib. 
F^oth to set on cream, custard 
or trifle, which looks and 
eats well 196 
Fruit, to preserve for tarts or 
family desserts 224 
raised crusts for 161 
remark on using- preserv- 
ed fruits in pastry 163 

to preserve for winter use 

to prepare for children 

a far more wholesome way 

than in pies &. puddings 200 

to gi-een for preserving- 

or pickling 208 

to candy any sort of ib. 
biscuits of 219 
stains how to take them 
out of linen £84 
Frtpn^ herbs 180 

dish of frying herbs 
and liver 207 
Furniture linings to dye them 
of different colours 285 

calico to clean when 
taken down for the summer 
287 
Furs to preserve from moths 
285 

G 
Game, &c. 104 to 110 
to choose 104 
directions for dressmg ib. 
Giblets to stew 102 
soup 113 
pie 142 
Gilding to preserve and clean 

287 
Gi7iger drops a good stomachic 
220 

v.'ine excellent 246 
another ib. 
Gingerbread 236 

another sort ib. 
a good plain sort 
237 

a good sort with- 
out butter ib. 



Gloves, to dye them like York 
tan or Limerick, 286 

to dye white ones a 
beautiful purple ib. 
Golden pippins stewed 199 
Geese to choose 94 
to roast 101 
green-goose pie 142 
Management of geese in 
the poultry-yard 264 
Gooseberries to keep 222 

another way 223 
another ib. 
trifle 191 
fool ib. 
hops 217 
jam for tarts 216 
another ib 
white ib. 
pudding baked 155 
vinegar 131 
Grates to clean the backs of 290 
GaATiES 120 to 124 

general directions 
respecting 120 

colouring for 111 
a clear brown stock 
for gravy-soup or gravy ib. 
soup 115 

to draw gravy that 
will keep a week 121 

a clear gravy ib. 
brown gp'avy or cul- 
lis ib. 

a rich gravy 122 
a gravy without 
meat ib. 

for a fowl when there 
is no meat to make it of ib. 

to make mutton eat 
like venison ib. 

a strong fish-gravy 
123 
Green to stain jellies, ices or 
cakes 202 

to green ft-uits for pre- 
serving or pickling 208 
Green-sauce for green geese or 

ducklings 126 
Green gages to preserve 318 
C 2 



IQ^k 



Green-goose pie 142 
Grou7i(/ nee pudding 157 

milk 274 
Grouse to dress 106 
Gruel water 275 

barley ib. 
Gudgeons to choose 26 
Guinea-foivl to dress 107 

manag-ement of 
Guinea-hens in the poultry- 
yard 266 

II 
Haddock 36 

to dry ib. 
stuffing for ib. 
Hair an excellent water to pre- 
vent it from falling off and 
to thicken it 283 
Hams to choose 45 
to cure 82 

three other ways of cur- 
ing them 83 

a still higher flavour ib. 
a pickle for them that 
v.ill keep for years 84 
to dress ib. 
sauce 128 
Hangings paper to clean 288 
Hares to choose 95 

directions concerning 107 
toi-oast 108 
to prepare and keep ib. 
to jug an old hare ib. 
broiled and hashed ib. 
pie to eat cold 143 
to pot 108 
//amco of veal Sd 

of mutton 87 
Harslet 80 
aart9horn\Q\\y 198 
Hay ^veen to prevent it from 

firing 286 
Heart beef 61 

Hearths (the inner) to clean 
290 

another way 291 
Herb pie 144 

frying herbs and liver 
180—207 
Tf^rings to choose 25 
to smoke 39 



Herrings fried 40 

broiled ib. 
(red) to dress ib, 
potted ib. 
(like lobster) ib. 
baked ib. 
Hessian soup and ragout 117 
Hoe cake 237 

Hog's head, to make excellent 
meat of 78 

cheeks to dr 79 
ears to force ib. 
puddings white 82 
lard ib. 

HOME-BREWEBT 241 tO 251 

Honey-comb lemon 203 
Hops gooseberry 217 
Hotch-potch an excellent one 90 

another 91 
House lamb steaks, white 92 
brown ib. 
Hungary-ioater to make 282 
Hnnter*s beef 55 

pudding 154 
I 
Iceing for tarts 164 
for cakes 228 
to ice a very large cake 
ib. 
Ice how to prepare for ioeing 
201 

ice-waters ib. 
currant or raspberry water 
ice ib. 

brown bread ice ib. 
creams ib. 

colouring for staining ices 
202 
Imperial 249 

cream 194 
Indian pickle 182 

pudding baked 149 
boiled 1.50 
Iron-moulds to take them out 

of linen 284 
Iro?iSy to preserve them from 
rust 290 

another way ib. 
J 
Tarns. Cli erry j am 2 14 



30^ 



Jams, currant jam red, black, 
or white 215 

Gooseberry jam for tarts 
216 

white ib. 
raspberry jam 217 
Jelly a savoury one for pies to 
eat cold 123 

to cover cold fish ib. 
calfs-feetjelly 197 
orange 198 
hartshorn ib. 
cranberry ib. 
cranberry and rice jelly 
ib. 

apple to serve at table 
two ways of making" ib. 

to cover meat or any re- 
lishing pie to be eaten cold 
123 

colourings to stain jel- 
lies 202 

currant jelly, red or 
black 215 

apple jelly for preserv- 
ing apricots or for any sort of 
sweetmeats ib. 

red apples in jelly ib. 
for the sick 269 
restorative pork jelly ib. 
shank jelly ib. 
arrow-root jelly ib. 
tapioca jelly 270 
another jelly ib. 
Other jellies are under the 
names of the different prin- 
cipal articles they arc made 
of, as calf 's-feet jelly, S;c. 
Jenisalein artichokes to dress 

175 
Johnny cake 237 
Jugged hare 108 
Junket 202 

K. 
Kebobbed mutton 9t 
Ketchup mushroom 186 
another way ib. 
walnut of the finest 
sort ib. 

cockle ib. 



Kidney veal 73 

mutton 90 
pudding 153 
Kitchen pepper 133 

L 
Lamb to choose 45 
pie 141 
leg 91 

fore quarter ib. 
breast and cucumbers ib, 
shoulder forced with sor- 
rel sauce 92 
steaks ib. 

house-lamb steaks white 
ib. 

brown i\>. 
cutlets with spinach ib 
head and hinge 93 
lamb's fry ib. 
sweetbreads ib. 
Lambstones fricasseed ib. 

fricassee of them 
and sweetbreads another way 
ib. 

a very nice dish 94 
Lamprey to stew 39 
Lard 82 
Larks and other small birds tO 

dress 104 
Lcvender-xvater to make 283 
J^eek soup 1 17 

and pilchard pie 138 
Lemons to keep for puddings 
&c. 213 

mince-pies 164 

to preserve in jelly 212 

cheesecake 171 

another ib. 
cream 193 

yellow without cream ib. 
white ditto 194 
custards 170 
drops 220 
honeycomb 203 
marmalade 211 
juice to keep 224 
pickled lemons 183 
lemon pickled 188 
pudding an excellent one 
147 



SQ6 



Lemon puffs 168 
sauce 128 

white sauce for boiled 
fowls or a fricassee 125 
wa*er for the sick, 276 
and vinegar whey 277 
Lemonade to be made a day be- 
fore wanted 225 

another way ib. 
that has the flavour 
and appearance of jelly 226 
for the sick 278 
Lent potatoes 187 
Light puddings or puffs 148 
Lights (calfs) and liver to dress 

73 
Linen\\o\9 to take stains of fruit 
or acids out of, also iron- 
moulds and mildew 285 
Linings of furniture to dye of 
different colours ib. 
Livev (calfs) broiled 73 
roasted ib. 

dish of frv'ing herbs and 
liver 180 
sauce 136 
Lobsters to choose 26 
to pot them 40 
to pot another way lb. 
stewed as a very high 
-elish 41 

buttered ib. 
to roast ib. 
currie of them ib. 
soup excellent 120 
sauce 130 

another way ib. 
pie 137 
patties 167 
salad 178 
Looking-glasses to clean 287 

M 
Macaroni as usually served 204 
two other ways ib. 
dressed svveel a \try 
nice dish of 188 
soup 113 
pudding 154 
Alacaroons'ioS 
Mackarel to choose 26 



MackarelhoWfA 35 
broiled ib. 
collared ib. 
potted ib. 

(like lobsters) 20 
pickled 35 

pickled called cave- 
ach ib. 

pie (like cod) 137 
Mahogany to give a fine colour 
to 288 

to take ink out of 289 
Malt extract of for coughs 244 
Mangoes melon 183 
Marmalade orange 210 
quince 219 
lemon 211 
trail sparent ib. 
apple 215 
bell pear 219 
Marrow bones 62 
Mead sack 249 

an excellent way 248 
Meat 44 to 49 

to choose 44 to 45 
observations on purchas- 
ing keeping and dressing 45 
to 49 

to keep meat hot ib. 
Melon mangoes 183 
Melted butter an essential arti. 

cle rarely well done 130 
Mildevi to take it out of linen 

285 
Milk to keep in the dairy 252 
rice and sago 203 
coffee milk 273 
sago milk 272 
ground rice miUc 274 
asses-milk ib. 
Milk-porridge, ib, 

French ib. 
Milk-punch or verdcr 251 
Mince-pie, 163 

witi»out meat 164 
lemon ib. 
egg lb. 

patties resembling 
mince pics 167 
Mock-braxi;n 80 



307 



Mock-tiivtle n 

a cheaper way 72 
another ib. 
another ib. 
Moor-fo-M to dress with red 

cabbage 105 
Moor-Game to pot 106 
Muffins 241 

MuUed wine two ways 272 
Mullets to choose 26 

red to dress o3 
Mushrooms observations re- 
specting- 177 

to dry 132 

an excellent \vay to pic- 
kle to preserve the 'flayour 
185 

ketchup 186 

another way ib. 
to stew 178 
powder 133 
sauce very fine for 
fowls or rabbits 126 
Mustard to make 132 

another way for imme- 
diate use ib. 
Mutton to choose 44 

observations on keeping 
and dressing 85 
leg 86 
neck ib. 

shoulder roasted ib. 
haunch ib. 
saddle to roast 87 
fillet braised ib. 
harico ib. 
to hash ib. 

shoulder boiled v.ith 
oysters 88 
breast ib. 
loin ib. 
rolled loin ib. 
bam ib. 
coUops 89 
cutlets ib. 
steaks ib. 

steaks of mutton or 
Iamb and cucumbers ib. 
steaks Maintenon 90 
sausages ib. 



Mutton rumps and kidney, 90 
an excellent hotch-potch 
ib. 

another 91 
kebobbed ib. 
Cliina chilo ib. 
broth 111 
pie 140 
pudding 153 

another 153 
pasty to eat as well as 
venison 169 
O. 
Oatmeal pudding 147 
Oil how to extract from boards 

or stone 290 
Old deeds, charters &c. on paper 
or parchment when the wri- 
ting is obliterated or sunk, 
to make it legible 286 
Olives 184 
Omiet 204 
Oniona pickled 1 84 

sliced with cu- 
cumbers ib. 
sauce 126 
soup 116 
to stew 175 
to roast ib. 

store-onions to preserve 
in winter 181 
Orange<ide for the sick 278 
Orange butter 200 

marmalade 210 
biscuits or little cakes 
212 

cheesecakes 172 

a very nice crust 
for orange cheesecakes 162 
chips 212 
fool 192 

cream excellent ib. 
Jelly 198 
(China) juice i a very use- 
ful thing to mix water with 
in fevers, when the fresh 
juiee cannot be had 225 

pudding three ways o5 
making, 146 
- l?.rt 165 



.308 



Grange -Jlo-wer cakes, 212 
Oranges, to keep for puddings 
&c. 213 

preserved to fill a cor- 
ner dish 211 

whole carved ib. 
to preserve in jelly 212 
Orgeat two ways 225 

for the sick 278 
OvC-cheek stewed plain 61 

to dress it another way 
62 

feet various ways of 
dressing ib. 

rump soup 117 
Oysters to choose 27 
/.o feed 42 
' to stew ib. 
boiled ib. 
scalloped ib. 
fried ib. 
loaves 43 
to pickle ib. 
another way ib. 
patties ib. 

or small pies 166 
sauce to beef steaks 129 
boup 120 
P 
Paim to clean 288 
Palates beef 57 
Panada made in five minutes 
for the sick 270 
two others ib. 
chicken ib. 
Pancakes common 158 

fine ones fried without 
butter or lard 159 
Irish ib. 
of rice ib. 
New England ib. 
buckwheat 160 
l^aper black for drawing pat- 
terns 283 
Paper-hangings to clean 288 
Pannesan and cauliflower how 

to dress 176 
Parsley sauce when no parsley 
leaves are to be had 126 
pie 143 



Parsley to preserve for ilic 

winter 181 
Parsnips fricassee of 180 
to mash ib. 
to preserve to eat in 
the winter 181 
Partridges to choose 95 
to roast 105 
to pot ib. 

a very cheap way ib. 
sauce for them cold 
125 

soup 113 
pie in a dish 143 
Paste rich puff 160 

a less rich one ib. 
rich for sweets 161 
rice for reli.shing things 
lb. 

potatoe ib. 

light for tarts and cheese- 
cakes 164 

strong for paper 291 
for chopped lips 282 
for chopped hands ib. 
Pastrt 160 to 173 

observations on 162 
remaiks on using pre- 
served fruit in 163 
Pasty to prepare venison fou 
168 

venison pasty 169 
of beef or mutton to eat 
as well as venison ib. 
potatoe 170 
Pa«/es fried 166 
oyster ib. 

or small pic ib. 
lobster 167 
beef or podovies ib. 
veal ib. 
turkey ib. 
sweet ib. 

resembling mince-piei» 
ib. 

forcemeat for 134 
Other patties are under the 
names of the articles they arc 
made of. 
Peaches in brandy 210 



aes 



Peaches to preserve 209 

to dry 210 
Pea-foial to dress 107 

management of them 
in the poultry yard 265 
Pears stewed 200 
baked ib. 

to preserve most beauti- 
fully 216 
Peas to boil 174 

(old) soup 114 
(green) ditto ib. 
to stew 174 
to keep 173 
another way 174 
Pepper kitchen 132 
Peppermint di-ops 220 
Pepper-pot 113—207 
Perch 34 

to clioose 26 
to fry (like trout) 35 
Pettitoes 77 
Peioter to clean 291 
Pheasants to choose 96 
to roast 105 
Pickles 181 to 187 

rules to be observed 
with regard to them 181 

pickle that will keep 
for years, for hams tongues 
or beef 84 

Pickles are under the 
names of the articles pickled. 
Pies savoury 136 

observations on 136 
fruit pies, &c. 162 
Pies are under the names 
of the principal articles they 
are made of, as ^dpplc pie. Eel 
pie &c. 
Pig- (sucking) to scald 77 

to roast ib. 
Pi^-'s cheek, to prepare for 
uoiling 78 

head collared 78 
P/§-'ff feet and ears, different 
v.'ays of dressing 80 
fricasseed ib. 
jelly of feet and ears ib. 

souse for ib. 
harslet ib. 



Pigeons to choose 95 

various ways of dressing 
102 

to stew two ways 102 
to broil ib. 
to roast 103 
to pickle ib. 
in jelly ib. 

the same a beautiful 
dish ib. 

to pot 104 
pie 142 

management of live 
pigeons 266 
Pike to choose 26 
to bake 36 

stuffing for ib. 
Pilchard and leek pie 138 
Pipers to dress 36 
Pippin pudding 157 
tart 165 

stewed golden pippins, 
199 
Plate to clean 287 
Plovers to choose 95 
to dress 107 
to dress tlieir eggs 107 
P/7f/?w excellent as a sweetmeat 
or in tarts though bad to eat 
raw 220 
Plum-cake two wavs of making 
230 

very good common 
ones 231 

little ones to keep 
long ib. 
Phiin pudding common 154 Sc 

155 
Pomatum soft to make 281 
another way ib. 
hard ib. 

POOII, COOKEBTFOR 278 

general re- 
marks and hints on this sub- 
ject ib. 
Pork to choose 45 

to salt for eating imme- 
diately 51 

up 



74 



remarks ^n cutting 
to roast a leg ib. 



310 



Pork to boil a leg ib. 

a loin and neck roast 75 
shoulders and breast ib. 
rolled neck ib. 
spring- and forehand ib. 
spare rib ib. 
griskin ib. 
blade-bone, ib. 
to dress pork as lamb ib. 
to pickle 76 
steaks ib. 
sausag-es ib. 

an excellent sausage to 
eat cold ib. 

pies excellent to eat cold 
140 

jelly restorative 269 
Porker's head to roast 78 
Portable soup 118 
Potatoes to boil 178 
to broil 179 
to roast ib. 
to fry ib. 
to mash ib, 
cheesecakes 172 
Lent 187 
paste 161 
pasty 170 
pie 144 

pudding an excellent 
plain one 152 

pudding with meat, 153 
rolls 240 
Potted shrimps 42 
Potting birds a very cheap way 
105 

to clarify butter for pot- 
ted things 106 
PoULTttT, &c. 94 to 104 

directions for dress- 
ing 96 

PoCLTRT-TARn 260 

Pound cake good 23 1 
Prawns to choose 227 
to butter 41 
and cray-fish in jelly 
ib. 
Preserves he. 208 to 226 
Preserved frni0 remarks on 
using it in pastry 163 



Preserved Fruits to preserve 

fruit for winter use 221 
Princeton college pudding 149 
Prune tart 165 
rcDDiSGs, Sec. 145 to 160 

observations on mak- 
ing them 145 

a quick made one 157 
in haste 148 

to keep oranges or le- 
mons for 213 
Other puddings are under the 
names of the principal arti- 
cles they are made of,or their 
first names as Bread pudding, 
Light pudding, &c. 
Pw^-paste rich 160 

less rich ib. 
Puffs excellent light ones 168 
apple puffs 167 
lemon puffs 168 
cheese puffs ib. 
to prepare apples for 
puffs 167 
Puits d* amour, 188 
Pumpkin pudding 152 
Punch, an excellent method of 
making 250 

milk orverder, 251 
two ways ib. 
Purple a beautiful one for dy. 
ing gloves 286 
Q. 
Quails to dress 107 
Quaking' pudding 150 
Queen cakes two ways of mak- 
ing 232 
Quick-made pudding 157 
Quifices to preserve whole or 
half 219 

quince marmalade 219 
R 
Rabbits to choose 95 

various ways of dress- 
ing 107 

to make them taste much 

like hare 109 

to pot ib. 

to blanch 110 

pie (like chicken) 142 

fricasseed crust for 144 



311 



management of live rab- 
bits 266 
Ragout (Hessian) and soup 

iir 

Raised crust for custards or 
fruit 161 

for meat-pies or 
fowls, &c. 144 
Raisin -wine excellent 247 
with cider 248 
without cider ib. 
Uamakins 205 

Raspbern tart with cream 165 
brandy 249 
cakes 221 
cream two ways 
195 

jam 217 

another way 217 
Raspberry vinegar 226 

vinegar water for the 
sick 277 

water ice 201 
wine two ways of mak- 
ing 245 

and currant tart 164 
Ratafia 249 

cream 201 
drops 221 
Recbipts various 281 
Red a beautiful one,to stain jel- 
lies, ices or cakes 202 
Red apples in jelly 215 
Red cabbage to stew 177 
to pickle 185 
Red herrings to dress 4Q 
Red mullet to dress 35 
Rennet to prepare it to turn the 

milk in making cheese 254 
Restorative a gi'eat one 271 
two others ib. 
another a most plea- 
sant draught ib. 

pork-jelly 269 
Rice savoury 203 
Rice paste for sweets 161 
for relishing things ib. 
edging 136 
Carole of 203 
buttered 187 



Rice cake two ways 233 
and wheat bread 239 
caudle for the sick 272 

another ib. 
flummery 189 
and apple souffle of 187 
milk 203 

ground-rice milk 157 
pudding 148 

small 151 
plain ib. 
rich ib. 
with fruit 152 
Rice pudding baked 152 
ground 157 
Roasting meat observations on 

48 
Robart sauce for rumps or 

steaks 127 
Rock Fish to choose 25 

to boil 29 stew 34, 
Rolls excellent 240 
Fi'ench ib. 
potatoe ib. 
Rot in sheep to prevent 286 
Rout drop-cake 229 
Rump of beef siewed 53 

another way 54 
roasted ib. 
ox rump soup 117 
mutton and kidney 9Q 
Rusks 237 

Rust to preserve irons from 
290 

to take it out of steel ib. 

Sack creum 192 

mead 249 
Sage cheese to make 256 
Sago to prepare for the sick 
274 

to prepare to give away to 
poor families 280 
milk 203—274 
pudding 146 
iSa^aJ French 178 

lobster ib. 
Salmagundi 203* 
Salmon to choose 25 
to boil 29 



S12 



Salm<m to broil 29 
to pot 30 

todr> 30 

an excellent dish of 
dried ib. to pickle ib. 
collared 31 
Sauces, &c. 124 to 136 

a very good sauce es- 
pecially to hide the bad co- 
loui-offotvls 124 

white sauce for fricas- 
see of fowls rabbits white 
meat, fish or vegetables ib. 
sauce for wild fowl ib. 

another for the same or 
for ducks ib, 

an excellent sauce for 
carp or boiled turkey 125 

sauce for fowl of any 
sort ib, 

for cold fowl or par- 
tridge ib. 

a very fine mushroom 
sauce for fowls or rabbits ib. 

lemon white sauce fo.- 
boiled fowls ib. 

liver-saiice 126 

egg-sauce ib. 

onion sauce ib. 

clear shalot sauce ib. 

parsley sauce to 'make 
when no parsley leaves can 
be had ib. 

green sauce for green 
geese or ducklings ib. 

bread-sauce ib. 

Dutch sauce for meat 
or fish ib. 

sauce Robart for nimps 
or steaks 127 

for hot or cold roast beef 
ib. 

sauce for fish pies, 
where cream is not ordered 
two ways of making ib. 

tomata sauce for hot or 
cold meats ib. 

apple sauce for goose 
and roast pork ib. 

the old currant sauce 
for venison 128 



Sauces, lemon-sauce 128 

carrier-sauce for mut- 
ton ib. 

ham-sauce ib. 

a very fine fish sauce ib, 

another ib, 
fish sauce without but- 
ter 129, another ib. 

an excellent substitute 
for caper-sauce ib. 

oyster-sauce ib. 

lobster sauce two 
ways 130 

shrimp sauce ib. 
anchovy-sauce ib, 
white sauce 121 
Some other sauces &c. are un- 
der the names of different 
dishes, or of the principal 
articles the sauces are made 
of 
Savsages veal 69 
pork 76 
an excellent sausage to 
eat cold ib. 

mutton 90 
Scallops of cold veal ox chick •» 

en 63 
Scotch collops 69 

mutton broth 111 
Sea-cale 181 
Sea bass 25 

to boil 29 
Seed-cake a cheap one 232 

another ib. 
Servants, dikectioxsfou 281 
Shad to choose 25 

to broil 34 
Shalot sauce clear 126 

vinegar 130 
Shank }€:\\y for the sick 269 
Sheep t to prevent the rot iis 

286 
Sheep's-head f,sh to choose 25 

to boil 29 
Shoes a fine blacking for 291 
Short cakes little ones how tc 

make 230 
Shreivsbury cakes 233 
Shrimps to choose 27 
to butter 4T 



313 



iHhrimps to pot 42 
sauce 130 
pie excellent 137 
Shinib white currant 251 
Sick pkbsons, cooKLRy toR 
267 

general remarks 
on the subject 267 
Sippets for the sick when the 
stomach will not receive 
meat 271 
Slap-Jack 237 
Snipes to di'ess 107 
Snow may be used instead of 
eg-gs in puddings or pancakes 
158 

balls 187 
cream 194 
Soles to choose 25 
boiled 37 
fried ib. 

another way ib, 
stewed ib. 

stewed (like lamprey) 39 
in the Portuguese way 37 
Portuguese stuffing for 
soles baked ib. 
pie 137 
Sorrel to stew for fricandeau 

and roast meat 178 
Soujle of rice and apple 187 
Sounds cod's to look like small 

chickens 32 
Soups, &c. 110 to 124 

general directions re- 
specting them 110 
colouring for 111 
an excellent soup 112 
an excellent white one ib, 
a plainer white one ib. 
^-la-sap 118 
portable ib. 
soup maigre 119 

another ib. 
a baked one to give away 
to poor families 279 

for the weakly for the 
same purpose 280 
Other soups are under the 
names of the principal arti- 
cles they are made of. 



Souse for braivn and for pig*s 

feet and ears 81 
Soustev or Dutch pudding 147 
Sparerib of pork 75 
Spinach to boil 176 

soup 116 
Spruce beer to make 243 
Sponge cake 233 

another way without 
butter 234 
Squab pie 141 
Squashes to boil 179 
Stains to take any kind out of 
linen 234 

stains caused by acids,284 
another wny for fruit- 
stains ib. 

anotlier ib. 
another way ib, 
stainsof wine fruit occ^ 
alter they have been long in 
the linen ib. 

many other stains ib. 
Steakz beef 56 

and oyster-sauce ib. 
Italian beef-steaks ib. 
sauce for 127 
beef-steak pie 138 
pudding 153 

baked 153 
Steel to take rust out of 290 
Stock clear brown for gravy- 
soup or gravy 111 

for brown or white fish- 
soups 119 
Stone to extract oil from 290 
chimney-pieces to black- 
en the fronts of ib. 
Stoves to tacke the black off the 
bright bars of the polished 
ones in a fevv minutes ib. 
another way 291 
Strawberries to preserve them 
whole 213 

to preserve in wine ib. 
Streaked bass to choose 25 
Stucco excellent which will ad- 
here to wood-work 283 

mason's mashes for 284 
Stujing for haddock &c. 36 
for soles baked 37 



SU 



IKD£X. 



for sole, cod or turbot- 
pie 138 

forcemeat for 136 
Sturgeon to dress fresh ^Z 
to roast ib. 
an excellent imita- 
tion of pickled ib. 
Sucking pig to scald 77 
to roast ib. 
Suet to preserve it a twelve- 
month 207 pudding 153 
veal suet pudding 154 
dumplings 158 
Sugar to clarify it for sweet- 
meats 208 

vinegar 131 
Suppers general remarks on 
293 

dish a pretty one 203 
Sweet dishes 187 to 203 
Siveetbreads 72 

roasted ib. 
ragout ib. 
Sweetmeats, &c. 208 to 226 
observations on 
221 

to clarify sugar 
for 208 

a very fine crust 
for them when to be particu- 
larly nice 162 

cover for sweet- 
meats 196 

excellent sweet- 
meats for tarts, when fruit is 
plentiful 219 
Sweets rich paste for 161 
.S'wee< patties 167 
Sijllabub 202 

a very fine one ib. 
everlasting or solid ib. 
Syrup of cream 260 

Table-beer excellent to brew 
243 

Tansey 188 

Tapioca ]Q\\y for the sick 270 

Tartlets iiow to prepare bar- 
berries for 208 

Tarts icing for them 16^ 
pippin 165 



Tarts prune 165 
orange ib. 
apple ib. 

raspberry with cream ib. 
Tea-cakes 234 

another sort as bis- 
cuits ib. 

another sort ib. 
Teal to dress 107 
Tin-covers to clean 291 
Toast anchovy two ways 206 
Toast and -water for the sick 

276 
Tomata sauce for hot or cold 

meats 127 
Tongues and udder to roast 60 
to pickle for boiling 
two ways ib. 

stewed 61 

an excellent way o 
doing them to eat cold ib. 

a pickle for them 
that will keep for years 84 
Transparent pudding 150 
Trife an excellent one 1 90 

gooseberry or apple 191 
cake ib. 

a froth to set on trifle 
which looks and eats well 
196 
Tripe 62 

soused ib. 
Trout to fry 35 

to choose 26 

to pot (like lobsters) 40 
a la-Gene voise 35 
Tunbridge cakes 235 
Turbot to choose 25 
to keep 29 
to boil ib. 
pie 138 
Turkeys to choose 94 
to boil 96 

an excellent 
sauce for them boiled 125 
to roast 97, pulled ib. 
patties 167 

management of tur- 
keys in the poultry yard 26-1 
T iir7iip sonp 114 
pic 144 



UCI)£X. 



51^ 



Turtles little eggs for 135 
forcemeat for 135 
U. 
Udder and tongue to roast 60 

V. 
Veal to chose 44 
to keep 63 
leg ib. 
knuckle ib. 
shoulder 64 
neck ib. 

a-la-braise ib. 
breast of ib. 
rolled breast 65 
another way ib. 
a la-daube ib. 
rolls of either cold meat 
or fresh ib 
harrico of 66 
a dunelm of cold ib. 
minced ib. 
potted ib. 

to pot veal with ham 67 
cutlets Maintenon ib, 
another way ib. 
other ways ib. 
coUops ib. 

to dress collops quick ib. 
scallops of cold veal 68 
fricandeau ib. 
a cheaper but equally 
good fricandeau ib. 

fricandeau another way 
ib. 
olives 69 
cake ib. 
sausages ib. 
broth 111 
gravy 122 
pie 138 

Scotch collops 69 
Veal pie y a rich one 139 
and parsley pie ib. 
olive pie ib. 
suet pudding 155 
jiatties 167 

broth very nourishing 268 
Vegetables 173 to 181 

observations on 
dressing them 173 



Vegetables to boll them green 
in hard water ib. 

how to preserve for 
the winter 181 

soup 115 
another 116 
pie 143 
Venison to choose 44 
to keep 49 
to dress ib. 
haunch, neck, &c. 50 
stewed shoulder ib. 
breast ib. 
hashed ib. 

the old currant sauce for 
128 

pasty crust for 168 — 169 
to make a pasty of beef 
or mutton to eat as well as 
venison 169 
Verder, or milk punch 251 
Vinegar camp 131 

gooseberry ib. 
raspberry 226 
raspberry vinegar wa- 
ter 277 

shalot ISO, sugar 131 
cucumber ib. wine ib. 
and lemon -whey 277 
Vingaret, for cold fowl &c. 130 

W 
Wafers Newark 235 
JValmits to pickle 184 

another way 1 85 
ketchup of the finest 
sort 186 
JVash-balls to make 282 
Washes for stucco 284 
Water an excellent one to pre- 
vent the hair from falling ofi" 
and to thicken it 283 
Water -cakes 233 
Water-gruel 275 

anothrr Avay ib, 
souchey 39 
Welch pudding 157 

rabbit 206 
Whey 277 

white v.'Inc wlicv- for the 
siclc ib. 



316 



Whey vinegar and lemon 277 
White to stain jellies, ices or 
cakes 202 

hog's puddings 82 
sauce 121 
WUtin^s to choose 26 

to dry (like haddock) 

Wild fowl to roast 106 
sauce for 124 
another ib. 
Windsor beans fricasseed 176 
Witie to refine 24S 

roll 200 vinegar 131 
mulled 272 

another way 273 
to preserve strawberries 
in wine 213 

rich and pleasant 244 
raspberry wine 245 

or currant wine ib. 
another way ib. 
black currant wine very 
fine ib. 



ginger wine excellent, 246 
another way lb. 
maple wine 247 
elder wine 246 
white very much like 
Frontiniac247 
clary vvine ib. 
raisin excellent ib. 
with cider 248 
without cider ib. 
Woodcocks to dress 107 
Woollen to preserve it from 
moths 285 

Y. 
Yeast to make 237 

another way 238 
to preserve 244 
dumplings 158 
Yello-w to stain jellies, ices or 

cakes 202 
Yorkshire cake 241 

pudding 157 



If 



y 'I 



3 9999 'Sa?''??;''} 




.-r^. 



xpected to rep 
.very of books, 
m can be establisT 
o or from the Libra 

•■ 'lelow inst not lie madp 



';vt ■'.. 



i' - 



