Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



7 



?/ 



/ 270 







. -i.: 



DOMESTIC COOKERY, 

AND 

Useful 3Elecetpt 3Booli. 

CONTAINING 
TOE MOST APPROVED DIRECTIONS FOR PURCHASING, PRESERVING, 

AND COOKING 

MEAT, FISH, POULTRY, GAME, &c. 

IN ALL THEIR VARIETIES; 

TRUSSING AND CARVING; 

PREPARING SOUPS, GRAVIES, SAUCES, BfADE DISHES, 
POTTING, PICKLING, &c. 

wUk all the BraaclMt of 

PASTRY Sf CONFECTIONARY; 

A COMPLETE 

INSTRUCTIONS TO SERVANTS, 
rOR^ 1H£ BEST METHODS OF PERFORMING THEIR VARIOUS DUTIES 

THE AST OF 

MAKING BRITISH WINES, 

BREWING, BAKING, &e. 



wi iBMBi^ffifflSRa muBsmmi< 



THIRD EDITION. WITH ADDITIONS. 

FRINTKll FOB 

DEAN^ MUNDAY, THREADNEEDLE-STREET. 

1819. 



qi 



h ^1^- 



.* 








i . 









'fr ^■ 



\. 




, .-. • '*" 







PREFACE. 



As there is scarce an individual who is not aware 
of ths comfort resulting from a. regular and cleanly 
meal^ it may appear to many labour lost^ to write a 
prefkce to a work which is designed to teach the 
most ignorant how to prepare such a repast. 

But in the daily progress of life^ we cannot but 
observe a lamentable degree of ignorance among 
the generality of females on this subject 5 for we 
may often discover an amiable and accomplished . 
woman^ who possesses a general knowledge^ with 
the exception of domestic cookery^ which^ I must 
be suffered to remark^ is a subject of infinitely greater 
importance to her than superficial acqmrements, 
whether we consider her as a daughter^ wife, or 
mother. Indeed, she can never be properly the 
mistress of a funily, unless she makes herself ac<- ^ 
quainted with its interior economy. 






M 



J 



iv PREFACE. 



Exclusive of the necessity of such knowledge, it 
is surprismg, how such a woman^ possessed of it, 
may save in the yearly expenditure of her family, 
which, God knows, in the present difficult times, 
is an object of material importance to all persons of 
moderate incomes, for whom this book is peculiarly 
adapted, combining economy and gentility in its re- 
ceipts and directions. 

That this book may be answerable to the aim of 
the author, by removing many of the difficulties 
generally experienced^ is her sincere wish. 

EH. 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS 



FOR THE 



Management of a Family 



hiAj persons should endeavour to discharge the du- 
ties of the station they may fill, so as to claim the 
respect of their compeers : and afiford a beneficial 
example to the yoimger branches of society ^ to 
such as are desirous of respect^ this mode of conduct 
is a matter of necessity^ the neglect of which no 
excuse can extenuate. 

The accomplishments proper for the female cha- 
racter^ are not so seriously attended to as formerly, 
when all persons, whatever might be their rank, 
'were studious to render themselves useful. Yet do- 
mestic occupations shduld never for one moment be 
neglected, as such neglect must produce misery, 
and may, perhaps, ultimately terminate in ruin. 
At no very distant period, ladies knew but little be- 
yond their own family concerns ; now, alas ! there 
are few things of which they know so little as their 
family concenis. Viewed either way, this is run- 
ning into extremes, which shoidd be carefully 
avoided, because elegant acquirements may, with 
some little care, be easily united with useful know- 
ledge, and without which they become ridiculous. 
That this may be done, we have numerous ed^r, 
amples, even in the most elevated ranks of socvek?f^ 
in which the mistr^s of a &mily, possessed of every 

b3 



6 DIRECTIONS FOR 



po^ible feminine accomplishment^ may b^ fre- 
quently seen superintending her family arrange^. 
ments, investigating her accounts^ instructing her 
servants^ and keeping within the bounds of her bus- 
Band's income -, by such means, reflecting credit on 
him, as well as herself. 

If such minute attention to domestic concerns 
reflects honour upon females of elevated rank, at 
the same time that it is useful to them, how much 
more therefore must it be beneficial to such as pos- 
sess contracted incomes, and who can only support 
an elegant, nay even a neat appearance, by exert- 
ing the most rigid economy, and attentively direct- 
ing their efforts to the proper management of their 
domestic affairs. 

Females should be early taught to prefer the so- 
ciety of their , homes, to engage themselves in do- 
mestic duties, and to avoid every species of idle 
vanity, to which thousands of them owe their ruin ; 
and^ above all things, to consider their parents as 
their best friends, who are interested only in their 
welfare ; then indeed we might hope to see all as it 
should be, and to have daily evidence of real com- 
fort and happiness. Were females thus instructed, 
they would soon learn to discriminate between the 
solid enjoyments of domestic peace, and the fleeting 
F^ntoms of delusive pleasure. 

It is natural to imagine, that when a female mar- 
ries, she does so from a principle of love. It must 
surely, therefore, be admitted that her duties then 
become still more seriously important, because her 
' station is more -responsible than it previously was. 
She will then have to superintend the affairs of the 
man with whose destiny she has united her own ; 
the domestic part of which falls particularly within 
the sphere of her management, and the duties of 
which she ought actively to execute^ and at the 



DOMESTIC MANAGBMF.XT. 



same time to support as neat and elegant an ap- 
pearance as is consistent with prudent economy -, 
without which even princely fortunes must fail; in 
which case> her hushand will soon discover her 
merits^ and place a proper value on the treasure he 
possesses. 

A person who desires to please, will seldom fail 
to do so 3 this conviction should of itself be suffi- 
cient to stimulate to the attempt^ as domestic know- 
ledge in a female is of more real importance than 
y^n acquirements -, not that accomplishments, whoi 
properly directed, are incompatible with domestic 
duties 5 on the contrary, they become intimately 
combined with them, because they add to the ra- 
tional enjoyments of that house which should ever 
be the centre of attraction to the husband, to her 
children, and others connected with it ; and this is 
what an ignorant unsocial, and unaccomplished 
woman can never render it. It is the abuse of things 
from which alone mischief can originate, not from 
the temperate use of them. 

The domestic arrangements <of a fEunily belonging 
entirely to the female^ the table^ of course, becomes 
entitled to ho small share of her attention in re- 
spect to its expenditure^ appearance^ and general 
supplies. 

Taste and judgment are highly requisite in this 
department, because the credit of keeping a good 
and respectable table depends not, (as of old,) on 
the vast qu^tity of articles with which it is co- 
vered, but the neatness, propriety, and cleanliness^ 
in which the whole is served up, which alone can 
confer real credit on her who directs the preparation. 

Dinnerparties are very expensive, and certainly 
fall very heavy on persons whose incomes are mo- 
derate 3 such persons^ therefore, should not support 
a custom productive of impleasant consequences^ by 



DIRECTIONS FOR 



lending it tlie SaYlctiOh of their example. But if it 
is found requisite occasionally to give dinners^ it 
should be done in a Uberal and genteel manner^ 
otherwise it is far better to decline it altogether. 

Dinners are not so sumptuous now as they for^ 
merly were, which may be accounted for from the 
increased price of provisions ; in consequence of 
which, persons who possess a moderate property are 
compelled to be as economical as possible, in order 
to support that genteel appearance necessary for the 
promotion of comfort. 

Yet a certain degree of caution is requisite in 
providing even a family dinner, as a casual visitor 
may unexpectedly enter, whose company cannot be 
avoided, and every man feels his consequence hurt, 
should such a visitor chance to drop in to a dinner 
not sufficiently good or abundant; a table should 
therefore be furnished according to the income and 
rank of its master : thus 1 would not have a trades- 
man emulate the expenditure and appearance of a 
noble, nor a noble of royalty. A good plain dinner, 
of which there should be sufficient, with clean linen 
and decent attendance, will obviate every difficulty ; 
and the entrance of an unexpected visitor will occa- 
sion no additional trouble, and all uneasy sensations 
on account of the appearance of the diimer, will be 
banished from the breasts of the master and mis- 
tress, by which hannony and enjoyment will of 
course ensue. 

This mode of providing a table may be extended 
to every class of society, where each individual 
should have a table provided according to the for- 
tune which, must pay for it, and such an arrange- 
ment will meet with the respect and approbation of 
all serious persons. 

Carving also, though seldom attended to, merits 
attention ) for, without a due knowledge of it^ the 



>. 



DOMESTIC MANAOXMSNT. 9 

honours of a table cannot be performed with pro- 
priety^ or without considerable pain. It also makes 
a great difference in^the daily consumption of a 
fomily. I therefore rc^mmend my readers to study 
this useful branch of domestic knowledge, which 
can be attained only by constant practice, as written 
instructions can merely point out the way whidi 
practice must render perfect, and without which no 
person can preside with honour at the head of a 
table. 

Where there are young persons in a fomily^ it 
would greatly improve them, were they made to 
take the head of the table, under the seperinten- 
dance of their parents, by whose salutary directions 
they Would soon discharge the duty thus thrown 
upon them with equal ease and grace, and learn 
more in one month's practical employment, than 
they would in twelve months* observation. This 
would -also prepare them to discharge their duties 
in a proper manner, when they become mistresses 
themselves. For my own part, I can imagine no- 
thing more disagreeable than to behold a })erson 
at the head of a well-furnished table, presiding 
only to haggle and spoil the finest articles of pro- 
vision, by which great waste is occasioned, and, 
we may add, some disgust, because many delicate 
persons, when helped m a clumsy manner, abso- 
lutely loathe the provisions (however good), thus 
set before them. 

Every lady who fiUs the situation of a mistress of 
a family, will, I am confident, upon mature reflec- 
tion, be convinced, that much depends on the vigi- 
lance of her conduct, as far as respects good ma- 
nagement and domestic economy ; the most trifling 
events should claim her notice, for the keen eve of 
a superior can alone restrain servants and depen- 
dants within proper bounds, and prevent that waste 



10 DIRECTIONS FOR 





which would otherwise ensue. This is a line of 
conduct which the present high price' of every article 
of life renders stiU more imperative. No female 
should ever harbour a moment's doubt respecting 
her power to conduct and manage a family^ even if 
previously unused to it^ as many of her senior friends 
will freely give her their advice, and a short prac- 
tical experience will soon render her able to estimate 
the best mode of management, and also teach her 
how to keep her family expenditure agreeable to her 
income, and how to lay out her money to the great- 
est advantage. To execute this in a proper manner, 
a strict account of the yearly income, set apart for 
domestic expences, should be carefully taken 5 and 
that it may not be ignorantly exceeded, a minute 
account of the daily expenditure should be invariably 
made out, by which a regular habit of prudent eco- 
nomy will be obtained ; and should the expences of 
'one week then exceed their boimds, it must be made 
up by retrenching on those of the following weeks. 
For where persons depend for their support and 
comfort on the skill and active exertions of a father, 
much also depends on the mother, who, should she 
be a bad manager, will soon undo all that her hus- 
band has done 5 but should she understand her du- 
ties, prosperity will smile upon the family, and per- 
haps fortune may be ultimately secured. 

To prevent useless trouble in the household ac- 
coimts, a Family Booktkeeper should be purchased, 
when the sums laid out will only require to be noted 
down, as the various ajrticles are printed, with a 
colmnn for every day in the year, by which means 
the exact expenditure is always ascertained for any 
period in a few minutes. 

Persons who possess the means, should always 
pay for every article in ready money, the benefit of 
which they will very soon experience -, and trades- 



' DOMESTIC MANAGEMENT. 11 

men will be careful to supply such valuable custo- 
mers with the best of their goods. They are also 
willing to sell their goods cheaper for money than 
on credit, consequently, by properly attending to 
this circumstance, a considerable saving may be 
made in the course c^ a year. I would also recom- 
mend my readers never to change their trades-people 
without some' serious cause of o£fence, as, after 
dealing some time with a tradesman, he considers 
you a valuable customer, obeys your orders with 
punctual attention, and invaiiably serves you with 
the best goods he can procure, with the view of se- 
curing your future support, and a recommendation 
of his shop to your friends. 

On the contrary, those tradesmen who give long 
credit, are obliged to charge a propcntional interest^ 
without which they could not carry on their busi- 
ness j and it is this circumstance which contributes 
in no small degree to keep up the high price of every 
necessary of life. You will therefore easily perceive 
that, by having long credit, you will lose money, 
respect, and comfort. 

A person of moderate income should make every 
purchase herself, and to do this well, she should 
make herself acquainted with the best articles, and 
the relative value of each, by which she will occa- 
sionally make her pound go as feu* as many less ac- 
tive and experienced persons would two. Although 
I do not intend by the above to advocate the cause 
of bargains, which generally in the end prove losses j 
on the contrary I recommend whatever may be pur- 
chased to be of the best quality, which, you may 
rely on it, will go farthest. Stated rules cannot be 
fully given, as rank, fortime, and habit, must deter- 
mine many points 3 however, attentive inspection 
can be no disgrace even to the most elevated or 
wealthy One great advantage resulting from this 



M 



-.-.T-;. ^ ■ -«a.lflir- . .. '^•r.Xfc.M*-:- V. ■ • " •-. ..-.^^££1 



12 DIRECTIONS FOR 

• 

close attention is^ that servants will soon discover that 
such a mistress miist not be tnfled with, and will 
consequently respect, fear, and serve her, better than 
they otherwise would do. 

Waste of every description should be cautiously 
avoided ; nothing can be more criminal, when we 
reflect that there are thousands of our fellow-crea- 
tures d)ring from want, while, by the bounty of Pro- 
vidence, we ha^e the full enjoyment of every good 
thing. Wastefulness, therefore, should never be 
tolerated i^ any of the necessaries of life. Every re- 
spectable family, by proper attention, may do much 
good to their poor neighbours, without injury to 
themselves, by properly preparing the offiad of their 
houses, and distributing it to such as are in want 5 
this would be afifording much actual relief at the 
expence of little more than trouble. 

Regularity should be punctually observed in all 
funilies, as by keeping good hours much time is 
gained. By break^ting at nine o*clock the ser- 
vants have a fair day before them ; and they shoidd, 
when convenient, be suffered to retire to rest at an 
early hour, by which means they will not be late on 
the following morning. 

This method will also render less servants neces- 
sary. I am sensible that many of my fair readers 
may imagine this tq be of little consequence, but I 
can assiu'e them thai they^will ultimately find, that 
regular and early hours in a family is of serious 
importance to every branch of it, as far as relates 
to comfort, and it should .be remembered that ser- 
vants have feelings equally with ourselves. 

It is prudent and economical to have a sufficient 
quantity of household articles and culinary uten- 
sils. The stock should invariably be well kept up, 
^d to do this effectually^ reqmres some consider- 
ation. 



D0MB8TIC MANAGEMENT. 13 

The best, and indeed only regular methud of 
doing this, is to keep a correct account of these, as 
well as different articles of household furniture, 
linen, plate, china, &c. &c. and the various articles 
should be occasionally examined, and every article 
replaced as soon as broken. 

Much time will also be saved, if every artide is 
kept in its proper place, clean 3 and remember every 
thing should be mended the moment it is injured, 
and never applied to any . other, use than that fat 
which it was originally designed, by which mode of 
managexpent any thing will last much longer than 
it otherwise would do. 

What an active person may perform in the course 
of one year by a punctual attendance to regular 
hours, and a persevering industry, would, if calcu- 
liOed, astonish a conunon observer by its extent and 
utility. In respect to servants, a mistress should 
be extremely careful whom she hires, and be parti- 
folar in procuring a good character from the per^ 
sons witii whom they have previously resided. It 
is also the solemn duty of a mistress, to be just in 
giving a character to such servants as leave her, 
because a servant*s whole dependance rests entirely 
on the possession of a good character 5 destitute of 
which, inevitable ruin must follow. This is a duty, 
the breach of which nothing can extenuate 5 for by 
giving an undeserved bad character to a good ser- 
vant, through caprice, eternal infeuny must be re- 
jected on the person who does so. Faithful, honest 
servants should be treated with respect and kindness, 
and when an occasion offers, they should be duly re- 
warded, which will create emulation in others 3 but 
never more kept than sufficient. 

Never pay even the smallest bill, without having 
a receipt for the sum, or you will frequently have 

c 



■-r"*^;'"*- \ '■• • ■ ' ^'^ :■ _ . •■ .-t■^. 



14 DIRECTIONS FOR DOMESTIC COOKERY &C. 



to pay the same bill twice. You should weigh every 
article, such as meat, bread, groceries, &c. when 
sent home, before the person who brings thenx, that 
in case their weight should be short (which fre- 
quently happens) he may return the goods, and 
vouch for the truth of the circumstance. 

Should you deal' on credit, a book should be 
kept, in which every article, with its weight, and 
pric;e, should be inserted the instant it is received, 
which will prevent imposition, and also serve as a 
reference. 

In a well regulated £unily, every article should 
be kept in constant readiness, such as broken sugar, 
pounded spices, &c. by which much trouble will 
be prevented when such articles are wanted for im- 
mediate use. Servants should also be required to 
pay the same attention in waiting on the family, 
when alone, as they do when there is company : 
this will soon become a regular habit, and visitors 
will occasion but little cdditional trouble, while 
every thing will appear to go on smoothly. 




fr ■ -' ..-■•< 



rAKT.TJTl! 




w 



TSrSSMTB 




(■Ai{Taj.'(! 




'i- 



V 



■M 



ts 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. 

■\HB carving-knife should be lights yet of a suffi- 
cient size, and the edge very keen. In using it, no 
€^^^t personal strength is requisite, as. constant 
^*Bctice will render it an easy task to carve the 
^^lost difficult articles^ more depending on address 
Jfcan force; but, in order to prevent trouble, the 
^^ts of mutton, veal, lamb, &c. should be divided 
^7 the butcher, when they may be easily cut through, 
^^ fine slices of meat taken off from between every 
^^ bones. 

The more fleshy joints are to be cut in thin smooth 
^ces, neatly done ; and in joints of beef and mut- 
ton, the knife should always be passed down t^c 
bone by those who wish to carve with propriety, 
Bnd great attention should be paid to help every 
person to a portion of the best parts. Fish should 
be careMly helped, because if the flakes are broken, 
the beauty of it is entirely lost, for which reason a 
proper fish slice shoidd be used, and observe to send 
a part of the roe, liver, &c. to each individual. The 
holds of cod, salmon, carp, the fins of turbot, and 
sounds of cod, are esteemed as delicacies, and, of 
course, some should be sent to each person in com- 
pany, which denotes an attentive degree of polite- 
ness towards your guests. In carving ducks, geese, 
turkeys, or wild fowl, you should cut the slices 
down fix>m pinion to pinion, without making wings. 



16 DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AND 



by which you will gain more prime pieces ; but you 
need only do this when your party is large. 

A cod's head^ 

Fish is easily carved. The dish now under con- 
sideration^ in its proper season, is esteemed a deli- 
cacy 5 when served up, it should be cut with a fish- 
slice, and it should be remembered that the parts 
about the back-bone and the shoulders are generally 
accounted the best. Cut a piece quite off down to 
the bone in the direction of 1, 2, 3^ 4> putting in 
the slice at 1, 3, observing with each piece to h^ 
a part of the ^ound. There are several delicate parts 
about the head; the jelly part lies about the jaw 
bone; and is by some esteemed very fine^ and the 
firm parts will be found within the h^id. 

Round of beef. 

This valuable and excellent dish must be cut in 
thin slices, and very smooth, with a sharp knife, 
observing to help every person to a portion of the 
fat, also cut in thin smooth slices, as nothing has 
a worse appearance than fat when hacked. Observe^ 
also, th{;t a thick slice should be cut off the meat, 
before you begin to help your friends, as the boiling 
water renders the outside vapid, and of course 
unfit for your guests. 

Edge-bone of beef. 

Take off a slice three quarters of an inch thick, 
all the length from 1 to ^, and then help your 
guests ; the soft marrow-like &t is situated at the 
back of the bone below 3, the solid fat will be 
duly portioned from its situation with each sUce 
you cut. The skewer with which the meat is held 
together while boiling, should be removed before 



U8BPUL RECEIPT BOOK. 17 

the meat is brought to table^ as nothing can be 
more mipleasant than to meet with a skewer when 
carving ; but as some articles require one to be left 
in« a silver skewer should be invariably employed 
for that purpose. 

Sirloin of beef. 

You may begin carving a sirloin of beef either 
at the end^ or by cutting into the middle^ out your 
slices dose down to the bone^ and let them be thin^ 
observing to give some of the soft fat with each 
slice. Many persons prefer the outside ; it is there- 
fore a point of politeness to enquire which they will 
take. 

Fillet of veal. 

The bone of this piece being taken out^ renders 
the helping of it very easy. Many persons prefer 
the outside^ — ^ask this 5 and if so^ help them to it^ 
otherwise cut it off, and then continue to take off 
thin smooth slices 5 observing to take from the fiap^ 
into which you must cut deep^ a portion of stufiBng 
to every slice^ as likewise a small bit of (at. Iiemon 
slioul4 always be served with this joint. 

Breast of veal 

Is composed of two parts^ the ribs and brisket^ 
the latter is thickest^ and is composed of gristcls^ 
the division of which you may easily discern^ at 
which part you must enter your knife^ and cut 
through it^ which will separate the two parts^ then 
proceed to help your guests to whatever part they 
chance to prefer. 

Calf 8 head. 

Cut out slices from 1 to, 2^ observing to pasa 
your knife close into the bone 5 at the thick part 

c 3 



18 DOMRStlC COOKERY^ AND 

■ I ■ > > ■ I I ■■■! IM — ^— < ^ 

of the neck-end, 3, is situated thfe -throat, sweet- 
bread, which you should carve a slice off, from 3 
to 4, with the other part, that your guests may 
have a portion of each. If the eye is preferred, 
which is frequently the case, take it out, cut it in 
two, and send one half to the person who prefers it, 
and on removing the jaw-bone, some lean wiU be 
found, if required. The palate, generally esteemed 
a peculiar delicacy, is situated under the head : this 
should be divided into small portions^ and a part 
helped to each person. 

Shoulder of mutton. 

Cut into the bone in the direction of 1,2; the 
prime part of the fat lies in the outer edge, and 
must be thinly and smoothly sliced in the direction 
5 ; when your company is large, and it becomes 
necessary to have more meat than can be cut, as 
above directed, some very fine slices may be cut 
out on each side of the blade-bone in the direction 
3, 4 ; but, observe, the blade-bone cannot be cut 
across. 

Leg of mutton. 

Wether mutton is esteemed the best, and may. 
be known by a lump of fet at the edge of the 
broadest part, as at 1 ; the finest slices are situated 
in the centre at 2 ; when you carve, put your knife 
in there, and cut thin smooth slices, in the direc- 
tion of 3, and as the outside is rarely &t enough, 
cut some from the side of the broad end in neat 
slices from 5 to 6. Some persons prefer the knuckle, 
the question should, therefore, be always asked ; 
on the back of the leg, there are several fine slices, 
for which purpose turn Jit up, and cut the meat out 
lengthways. The cramp-bone is generally esteemed 
a delicacy J to cut it out, take hold of the shank with 



USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 19 



your left hand^ and cut down to the thigh bone at 4, 
then pass the knife under the cramp-bone^ in ihc 
direction of 4, 7. 

A fore-qimrtei' of lamb. 

Divide the shoulder, from the breast and ribs, by 
passing the knife under in the direction of 1, 2, 3, 
4, observing not to cut the meat too much off the 
bones. When the lamb is large, put the shoulder 
in another dish, an4 squeeze half a lemon over it, 
and the same over the breast and ribs, with a little 
pepper and salt, then divide the gristly part from 
the ribs in the line 5, 3, and help agreeably to the 
taste of your guests. 

Haunch of venison. 

Pass your knife down to the bone in the line 1, 
2, 3, which will let out the gravy, then turn the 
broadest end of the joint towards you, and put in your 
knife at 2, cutting as deep as you can to the end of 
the haundi at 4 5 let your slices be thin and smooth, 
observing to send some of the fat, which is always 
esteemed, to each person ; yo^ will find most fat on 
the left side of 3, 4, which, with the gravy, must be 
properly divided among your guests. 

Haunch of mutton 

Consists of the leg and a part of the loin, cut so as 
to resemble a haunch of venison, and must be carved 
in the same manner. 

Saddle of mutton. 

Take your slices from' the tail to the end, com- 
mencing close to the back bone,; let them be long, 
thin, and smooth; a portion of fat to each slice 
must be taken from the sides* 



90 BOMBBTIC COOKKRT, AND - 

• I ' l 

Roast pig. 

This is generally divided by the cook before it 
served up. You must first divide the shoulder fror^ 
the body on one side^ and then the leg^ in the d^ 
rection of the dotted line 1, 2, 3 : the ribs are nei^^ 
to be separated in two or three parts^ and an ear o- - 
jaw presented with them^ together with a sufficienc 
of proper sauce. The ribs are commonly though 
to be the finest part -, but as this must depend o: 
taste^ the question should be asked. 

Ham, 

The best method of helping ham is to begin 
the middle by cutting Jong slices from 1 to 2, 
through the thick fiit. When made use of for pies, 
the meat should be cut from the under side, after 
taking off a tliick slice. 

Goose. 

Separate the apron in the circular line, 1, 2, 3, 
and pour a glass of port wine into the body, and 
a little ready mixed mustard, then cut the whole 
breast in long slices, but remove them only as you 
help themf separate the leg from the body by put- 
ting the fork into the small end of the bone, press- 
ing it to the body, and having passed the knife at 
4, turn the leg back. To take oflFthe wing, put your 
folk into the small end of the pinion, and press it 
close to the body -, then put in the knife at 4, and 
divide the joint down in the direction of 4, 5. How- 
ever, practice can alone render persons expert at 
this 3 when you have thus taken off the leg and 
wing on one side, do the same by the other, if it be 
necessary, which will not be the case unless your 
company is lai^e ; by the wing there are two side 
bones, which may be taken off, as may the back and 



tiBBFUL KECEtPT BOOK. 



lower side bones^ but the breast and the thighs, 
divided from the drum-sticks, afford the finest and 
most delicate pieces. 

Hare. 

Pass the point of the knife under the shoulder at 
1, and cut -all the way down to the rump on one 
side of the back-bone, in the line 1, 2, then repeat 
the same operation on the other side, which will di- 
v^ide the hare into three parts; then cut the back 
into four pieces, which, with the legs, is esteemed 
to be the most delicate part ; the shoulder must be 
taken off in a circular line, as at 3, 4, 1 ; this done, 
help your guests, observing to send each person 
some gravy and stuffing; the head should be di- 
vided into two parts, many persons being partial to 
it. Rabbits are generally carved in the same manner, 
only observing to cut the back into two pieces in- 
stead of fbiu*. 

Fowls. 

The legs of a boiled fowl are bent inwards, and 
tucked into the belly ; but the skewers must be re- 
moved before it is sent to table. To carve a fowl, 
take it on your plate, and as you separate the joints, 
place them on the dish; cut the wing off in the 
direction of 1 to 2; observing only to divide the 
joint with your knife 5 then lift the pinion with your 
fork, and draw the wings towards the legs, which 
will separate the fleshy part more effectually than 
cutting it; to separate the leg, slip the knife be- 
tween the leg and the body, and cut to the bone ; 
then, with the fork> turn the leg back, and the joint 
will give way ; when the wings and legs are in this 
manner removed, take off the merry-thought from 
1, and the neck bones ; the next thing is to divide 
th^ breast from the body, by cutting through the 



^ DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AND 

« 

tender ribs, close to the breast, entirely down to 
the tail ; then lay the back upwards, put your kqife 
into the bone half- ways from the neck to the rump, 
and on raising the lower end, it will readily separate. 
The breast and wings are the most delicate parts; 
however, the best way is to consult the taste of your 
guests by asking which part they prefer. 

A pheasant, 

llie skewers must be taken out before the bird is 
served, then fix your fork in the middle of the 
breast, divide it in the line 1, 2, then separate the 
leg from the body in the dotted line 2, 4 -, then cut 
oif the vwing on the same side, in the line 3,4; do 
the same by the other side, and then slice the breast 
which you had previously divided 5 take pfiF the 
merry-thought in the line of 6, 7 , by passing the 
knife under it towards the neck. Divide the 
other parts as in a fowl ; but observe, the breast, 
wings, and merry-thought, are commonly accounted 
to be the most delicate parts^ but the leg has the 
finest flavour* 

* 

Partridge. 

The skewers must be taken out before it is sent to 
table, and it is then to be carved in the same mannet 
as a fowl. The wings, breast, and merry-thought 
are the primest parts. 

Pigeons 

Should be divided right in halves^ either length- 
ways or across, and half helped to each person. 

In respect to carving, written directions must 
always fail, without constant practice, as , that can 
alone give the necessary facility. 



USEFUL RKCBIPT BOOK. 



23 



Names of the various Jmits in Animals, 



Hind quarter, 

1 Sirloin 

2 Rmnp 

3 Edge-bone 

4 Buttock 

6 Mouse-buttpck 

6 Veiny piece 

7 Thick flank 

8 Thin flank 

9 Leg 

10 Fore-rib, tive-ribs 



BEEF. 

Fore quarter. 

1 1 Middle rib, four ribs ^ 

12 Chuck, three ribs ^ 
13^Shoulder, or leg of 

mutton piece 

14 Brisket 

15 Clod 

16 Neck, or sticking- 

piece 

17 Shin 

18 Cheek 



VENISON. 



1 Haunch 

2 Neck 



1 . Loin, best end . 

2 Loin, chump end 

3 FiUet 

4 Hind knuckle 

5 Fore knuckle 



3 Shoulder 

4 Breast 



VEAL. 

6 Neck, best end 

7 Neck, scrag end 

8 Blade-bone 

9 Breast, best end 
10 Breast, brisket end 



PORK. 

1 The spare-rib 

2 Hand 

3 Belly, or spring 



4 Fore Ipin 

5 Hind loin 

6 Leg 



MUTTON. 



1 Leg ^ 

2 Loin, best end 

3 Loin, chump end, 

4 Neck, best end 

5 Neck, scrag end 



6 Neck 

7 Breast 

A chine is two 
necks 
A saddle is two loins 



U DOMBSTIC COOKERY^ AND 



ARTICLES 

PROPER 

FOR FAMILY DINNERS 

IN EVERY MONTH. 



^ 



First Course for January, 

Ham and fowls^ or capons. Place the ham at 
the bottom of the table, and the fowls at the top. 
A leg of lamb and spinach, garnished with the loin, 
fried in steaks, with savoys or cabbages, and some 
good potatoes -, also some carrots sliced, with gravy 
and plain melted butter, and a hunting pudding. 

Or — ^Turkey and chine. A brisket of beef stewed 
and served up in soup, Scotch collops, a brace of 
carp stewed, savoys, carrots, potatoes, and mince 
pies. 

Or — A roasted hare, boiled cod*s head, stewed 
beef, carrots, turnips, and potatoes ; bacon and 
chicken, roasted ribs of beef, bread pudding, and 
brawn. 

Or — Roasted capons, garnished with sausages,* 
boiled rump o^ beef, a fore quarter of lamb and 
sallad, calf s head, bacon, greens and potatoes, gravy 
sauce, mince pies, a brown fricasee of lamb, oysters, 
and mushrooms. 

Second course for January, 

A fillet of veal stu£fed and roasted, stewed hare, 
partridges four in a dish, pig roasted, and apple- 
pie. 

Or — Wild fowl, a piece of sturgeon; fricasee of 
lamb-stones, sweet-breads, &c. ; marrow-puddinfr, 
squab pigeons, and asparagus i strong gravy. 



*., 



USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 25 



First course for February. 

m 

A fore quarter of lamb roasted^ sallad^ and stewed 
spinach, gravy soup, boiled turkey^ cod's head and 
oyster sauce, and spring pie. 

Or — ^Boiled turbot, Scotch collops, ham, and^ 
chickens roasted, or a boiled turkey 3 neck, loin, W 
or breast of veal roasted, shrimp and oyster sauce, 
savoys, and plain melted butter. 

Second course for February. 

Roasted partridges and bread sauce, garnished 
with lemons^ fried soles, fric^iseed rabbits^ tarts, and 
lobsters. 

Or — ^Roasted chickens and asparagus, a dried 
tongue, a piece of sturgeon, young rabbits roasted, 
and lobsters. 

First course for March. 

Soup, a haunch of doe venison, salt fish and 
^gs, roasted chickens, neat*s tongue and udder, 
battidia pie, roasted sirloin of beef, greens, pota- 
toes, and horse-radish. 

Ot — Boiled knuckle of veal, stewe4 carp, rump 
of beef roasted, gravy soup, £ricasee of sweetbreads, 
and lamb-stones. 

Second course for March. 

Ducklings, and chickens roasted^ and asparagus, 
pike barbicued, skirret pie. .■/;.."■'■ ■ 

First course for April. 

Soles garnished with fried sinelts, roasted chicken, 
with ham and brocoli, stewed beef, and fricasee of , 
young rabbits. 

Or — Fresh salmon, and smelts, fncaseed chickens, 
kg of lamb and spinach, neck of veal roasted, ^nd 
e3st% head dressed like turtle. 



J 



26 DOMKSTIC COOKKRY, AND 



Second course for April, 

A green goose roasted, and gravy sauce, chickens 
and asparagus 3 fore-quarter of lamb roasted^ and 
roasted lobsters. 

m. First course for May* 

Fresh salmon boiled^ garnished with fried smelts^ 
. anchovy sauce, and shrimps, a calf s head dressed 
in the same manner, as turtle, chicken pie, and a 
chine of mutton roasted. 

Or — Neck of veal boiled, mackarel and goose- 
berry sauce, roasted fowls, and neat's tongue, and a 
boiled pudding. 

Or — ^Boiled beef, with greens, carrots, and pota- 
toes, stewed tench, a breast of veal made into a 
ragout, roasted fowls, bacon, and greens, a boiled 
pudding with fruit. 

Second course for May, 

Haunch of venison and gravy sauce, and currant 
jelly 5 a green goose, with gravy sauce, coUared 
eels, lobsters, and tarts. 

Or — ^Roasted leveret, and gravy sauce, turkey 
poults roasted and bread sauce, young ducks roasted, 
with gravy sauce 3 asparagus, tarts, and custards. 

First course for June, 

Ham, chicken, cabbage, cauliflowers, marrow 
pudding, boiled salmon, garnished with fried smelts, 
lobster sauce, and scrstped horse-radish, beans and 
bacon. 

Or — Haunch of venison roasted, with gravy sauce 
and currant jelly 3 stewed soles, garnished with fried 
smelts. Beans and bacon^ fricasee of rabbits, and 
a marrow pudding. 

Or — ^Mackarel, with green sauce and plain but- 
ter 3 boiled leg of lamb and cauliflower; breast of 




USEFUL kECKIPT BOOK. 27 

veal, stewed with gravy and green pease j young . 
ducks roasted, and asparagus. 

Or — ^Boiled mullets, lamb-stones, and sweetbreads 
ragoued ; venison pasty, roasted pig, and such ve- 
getables as may be in season. 

Second course for June, 

Green geese, roasted, with gravy sauce, a leveret 
roasted, with venison sauce ^ collared eels, quails 
roasted, with grayy sauce 3 tarts, jellies, and sylla- 
bubs. 

Or — Pheasant poults, with gravy and bread 
sauce, collared pig, buttered crabs^ peas, and ducks 
roasted. 

First course for July. 

Fresh salmon boiled, and garnished with sliced 
lemon, served up with shrimp, anchovy, and plain 
butter for sauce 5 ham and chickens, with cauli- 
flowers, pigeon pie, and Scotch collops. 

Or — Boiled mackarel, boiled fowls, v/ith pork 
and greens 3 roasted pigeons and asparagus, veni- 
son pasty^ hunting pudding, loin of veal roasted, 
and asparagus. 

Or — Boiled turbot, garnished with fried smelts ; 
a calfs head, dressed after the manner of turtle 5 
pigeon pie, and a marrow pudding. 

Second course for July- 

Roasted hare, with gravy sauce and currant jelly ; 
turkey poults roasted, with .gravy and bread sauce ; 
roasted pigeons, and asparagus, green peas, potted 
venison, or collared eel. 

Or — Young ducks roasted, a shoulder of venison 
roasted, with gravy and currant jelly sauce j phea- 
sant poults roasted, with gravy and bread sauce; 
lobsters garnished with fennel j and potted beef in 



28 DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AND 



'■- "— -^ 



slices, garnishefd with lemon ; tarts^ custards^ jel- 
lies, &c. 

Ftrst course for' August, 

Haunch of venfson roasted, venison pasty, turbot, 
a fricasee of chickens, with beans and bacon. 

Or — Roasted, pig, ham, and chickens boiled, or 
roasted, with vegetables in season ; fresh salmon 
boiled^ with lobster and shrimp sauce. 
, Or— Chine of mutton, pigeon pie, boiled rabbits, 
smothered in onions j a fricasee of chickens, and a 
batter ])udding. 

Second course for August. 

Roasted pheasants, with gravy and bread sauce j 
boiled pike, hot lobster, potted venison, green peas, 
tarts, custards, &c. 

First course for September. 

A Doiled rump of beef, with carrots, cauliflowers, 
&c. J a goose roasted, with gravy apd apple sauce; 
boiled rabbits, with onion sauce; scate, vdth an- 
chovy and shrimp sauce, and a lamb pie. 

Or — Haunch of venison, vnth proper sauce; 
pigeon pie ; turbot, with shrimp, lobster, and an- 
chovy sauce ; knuckle of veal, with bacon and ve- 
getables, and a marrow pudding. 

Or — Boiled leg of pork, with pease pudding ; 
calfs head dressed like turtle; chine of mutton, 
with stewed cucumbers, pigeon pie, and a fricasee of 
rabbits. 

Second course for September. 

Roasted ducks, with gravy ancl onion sauce; hot 
apple pie, roasted partridges, with gravy sauce, gar- 
nished with lemon ; fried soles, with anchovy and 
shrimp sauce 3 lobsters, tarts, &c. 



UKEFUL RBCEIPT BOOK. ^29 

k I , 



First course for October. 

Fowls roasted or boiled, with ham^ greens, and 
gravy sauce 3 cod's head boiled^ with oyster, shrimp, 
and anchovy sauce 5 pigeon pie, Scotch coUops, 
and hunting pudding. 

Or — ^Haunch of doe venison roasted, with gravy 
and sweet sailce -, stewed carp, garnished with spit- 
cock eels ; a buttock of beef boiled, and greens, 
carrots, &c ; Scotch coUops^ and a bread pudding. 

Or — ^Roasted turkey, and chine boiled or roairted, 
with gravy or onion sauce; ribs of beef roasted, 
boiled fowls, neat's tongue and greens. 

Second course for October. 

Roasted woodcocks^ with gravy sauce, artichokes, 
and mfslted butter 5 eels boiled, and anchovy sauce, 
garnished with sliced lemon; a leg of house lamb 
with spinach and plain melted butter 5 teals, with 
gravy and claret sauce ; tarts, &c. 

Or — Partridges^ or pheasants roasted, with gravy 
and bread sauce 5 a fore quarter of house lamb, with 
saUad -, artichoke pk, chine of salmon boiled, with 
anchovy and shrimp sauce^ marrow pudding, or 
minced pies. 

First course for November, 

Boiled fowls, bacon and greens, with melted but- 
ter, calfs head dressed like a turtle; a roasted 
goose, with' rich gravy sauce ; ragoued veal, served 
with mushrooms in brown sauce^ garnished with 
lemon. 

Or — Leg of pork boiled^ pease soup ; scate boiled, 
with shrimp and anchovy sauce, garnished with 
fried smelts -, a fillet of veal roasted ; a boiled hen- 
turkey, and oyster sauce. 

Or — ^Boiled leg of mutton, mashed turnips, and 
caper sauce -, ham and roasted fowls, boiled turkey^ 
stewed bcef^ and vegetables in season. 

D 3 . 



30 DOMfeSTIO COOKEHY^ AND 

Second course for November. ^ * 

Fresh salmon boiled, with lobster sauce 5 wood- 
cocks roasted; wild ducks, with gravy and claret 
sauce ; roasted turkey, and a neat's tongue ;" tarts, 
&c. 

Or — Partridgfes or pheasants roasted, with gravy 
and bread sauce; snipes and larks, with gravy 
sauce; a fore quarter of house-lamb roasted, with 
saltad ; hot apple and mince pies. 

First course for December. 

Ham, fowls, roasted or boiled, carrots, cabbage, 
and cauliflower ; fresh salmon boiled, garnished 
with fried smelts, and served with lobster sauce; a 
sirloin of beef roasted, and a hunting pudding. 

Or — ^Boiled buttock of beef, with carrots and 
savoys ; a cod's head boiled, garnished with fried 
smelts, roasted rabits, and a hare roasted, with rich 
gravy-sauce and currant jelly; vegetables as in 
season. 

Or — ^Boiled leg of lamb, garnished with the loin 
fned in steaks, and with spinach ; roasted tongues 
and venison sauce ; stewed tench, gravy soup, a chine 
of pork, and turkey ; with greens, gravy sauce^ and 
mince pies. 

Second course for December. 

Roasted hare, and rich gravy sauce ; capons 
roasted, garnished with sausages, and served with 
rich gravy-sauce) wild ducks roasted, bacon, and 
minced pie. 

These Directions are given for every month in the yeaty 
and contain such articles as are then in season, from which 
every housekeeper may readily select such as may be thought 
agreeablcy and suited to the number of friends invited. IMth 
regard to vegetables, such kinds are to be dressed as may be 
must agreeable to taste, onty observing to vary them as they 
succeed each other in season. 



•^ 



VSF,]fiKL RECSIPT BOOK. 31 



INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE CHOICE OF 

PROHJ^IONS. 



How to choose beef. . 

Tlie finest ox beef may be known from having an 
open grain^ an agreeable carnation colour, and white 
suet ; and, if young, it will be tender, and of an 
oily smoothness. Cow-beef is not so open in its 
grain, nor is the red of so pleasant a colour, but the 
fat is much whiter. You may know whether or 
not it is young, by^ making an impression on the lean 
with your finger, which mark, if young, will soon 
disappear. ' ' 

Bull-beef should never be purchased, being 
clammy, rank, and more closely grained, than other 
beef. The colour is a dusky red, and the flesh 
tough ill pinching. The fat is rank, skinny, and 
"hard. 

Mutton and lamb. 

Pisch the flesh with your fingers ^ if it regains its 
former state in a short time, the mutton is young, 
but otherwise it is old, and the fat will be clammy 
and fibrous. If it be ram mutton, the grain will be 
close, the lean tough, and of a deep red colour. It 
will not rise when pinched, and the fat vnil be 
spungy. Carefully observe the vein in the neck of . 
mutton or lamb. If it looks ruddy or blueish, the -M 
meat is fresh j but if yellowish, is decaying, and if . V 
green, completely tainted. The hind-quarter may 
be judged of from the kidney and knuckle. If you 
^d a faint smeU jmder .the kidney, or the knuckle 



/• 



32 DOMESTIC COOKEirir^ AND 



is unusually limp, the meat is stale. That mutton 
and lamb will always prove the best, the legs and 
shoulders of which are short shanked. 

Veal 

Veal, when stale, generally becomes clammy and 
flabby. The flesh of the cow calf is not of so 
bright a red, nor so firmly grained as that of the bull 
calf, neither is the fat so much curdled. The 
shoulder may be known by the vein in it, wliich, if 
it be not of a bright red, is surely stale ; and if any 
green spots appear about it, totally unfit for use. 
IShould the neck or breast appear yellowish at the 
upper end, or the sweetbread clammy, it is not 
good. 

The loin may be known by smelling imder the 
kidney, which always taints first ; and the>leg, by 
the joint, which, if it be limp, and the flesh clammy, 
with green or yellow spots, is unfit for use. 

The head, if new and sweet, must have the eyes 
plump and lively, but if they are sunk or wrinkled, 
it is not good. This rule applies also to the head of 
a sheep or lamb. 

Pork. 

When you purchase a leg, a hand, or a spring, 
take especial care that the flesh is cool and smooth -, 
for, if otherwise, it is certainly stale 3 but particu- 
larly put your finger under the bone that comes out, 
and if the flesh be tainted, you will immediately 
discover it by smelling to your finger. 

Whea you purchase a sucking-pig, remember diat 

'-■ the barrow, or sow, is better than the boar 5 the 

>- flesh of which 4s neither so sweet nor so tender. 

Smell carefully at the belly, and examine about the 

tail, and if it has no disfagreeable smell, nor any 

yellow and green spots in those parts^ the pig is^as 



USEFUL RECEIPT ROOK. 33 

good as you could desire j but you will in'^gbnerai 
tind that the short thick necks are the best. 

Bacon and ham. 

In marketing for bacon^ observe whether the fat 
feels oily, appears white, and does not crumble, 
and that the flesh bears a good colour, and adheres 
closely to the bone, in which case only the bacon is 
good. With respect to hams, you should select one 
with a short shank, and try it with d sharp-pointed 
knife, which thrust into the flesh as niear the pope's 
eye as possible. If it comes out only a little smeared, 
and smells well, you may be assured that the ham is 
good — but, if otherwise, it is good for nothing. 

The turkey. 

The legs of a cock-turkey should be black and 
smooth, its spurs short, the feet limber, and the 
eyes lively 5 but if the eyes are sunk, and the feet 
dry, the bird is stale. The hen is chosen in the 
same manner, only observe, that if she is with tgg, 
the vent will be soft and open, but if not, close and 
hard. 

Pigeons, 

Wlien they grow red legged, are old, and are 
stale when their vents are flabby and green. If 
fresh, they will be limber-footed, and feel fat in the 
vent. 

By this rule you may judge of all kinds of doves, 
fieldfares, thrushes, blackbirds, plovers^ larks, &c. 

• 

The pheasant, 

A young cock pheasant has dubbed spurs; but 
if old, the spurs will be sharp and small. If the 
rent be fast, the bird is fresh ; but if it be open 



34 liOMBSTIC COOKERY^ AND 

and fli^bby, stale. If a hen^ and youngs the legs 
will be smooth^ and her flesh of a fine grainy but^ if 
old, her legs will be rough, and as it were hairy, 
when pulled. 

Pheasant and heath poults are fresh when their 
feet are limber, and their vents are white and stiff — 
but are stale when they are dry-footed, have green 
vents, and will peel, if touched hard. 

The bustard. 

This dainty bird is chosen in the same manner as 
the turkey. 

The heathcock and hen. 

When, young, have smo<fth legs and bills,, which 
become tough when old. You may judge of their 
freshness in the same manner as. you do with the 
pheasant. 

The wheat^ear. 

This delicate bird is fresh, if it has a limber foot 
and fat rump 3 otherwise it is stale. 

The woodcock, 

If stale, will be dry-footed -, and if bad, its nose 
will be snotty, 'and the throat moorish and muddy -, 
but if Tiew and fat, it will be limber-footed, thick, 
and hard. 

A capon 

Is known by a short and pale comb, a thick rump 
and belly, and a fat vein on the side of the breast : 
when young, the spurs will be short and blunt, and 
the legs smooth ; and if fresh, the vent will be close 
and hard j but if stale, loose ; which last remark may 
be applied to cocks and hens. 



USEFUL BECEIPT BOOS. 35 

A cock. 

When youngs has short and dubbed spurs -, and if 
fresh^ his vent will be hard and close. But you 
should be particidar in observing the spurs^ as the 
market people frequently scrape them, to give them 
the appearance of young cocks. 

A hen 

Is old, if her legs and comb be rough, but young, 
if they are smooth. You may also judge of her 
freshness by the vent, in the same manner as the 
cock. 

Geese. ', 

The feet and bill of a ^ung one will be ydlow, 
and it will have but few hairs on the feet. When 
old, the feet will . be red and hairy. If fresh, the 
feet will be supple ; but if stale, dry and stiff. 

Ducks. 

A tame or wild duck, when fat and young, is 
thick and hard on the belly, and is old when lean 
and thin. When fresh^ the foot is pliable, but dry, 
if stale. You should remember that the foot of a 
wild duck is reddish, and less than that of a tame 
duck. 

A partridge. 

Commonly taints first in the crop, therefore you 
should open its bill and smelly next examine the 
bill, legs, and vent; if the bill be white, a^d the 
legs have a blueish cast, the bird is old i but if the 
bill is black, and the legs yellow, it is young. If 
the vent be fast, it is new ^ but stale, if open and 
green. 



36 DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AND 



4 snipe 

Is chosen in the same manner as the "woodcock ; 
biit the snipe, when fresh, is fet in the side under 
the wing, and feels thick in the vent. 

Teal and widgeon 

Are supple-footed when fresh ; but are dry-footei| 
when stale. If fat, they are thick and hard on the 
belly, and lean, if thin and soft. 

A hare and leveret 

Are thus chosen : if the claws of a hare are blunt 
and rugged, the division in the lip spread much, aud 
the ears appear dry and tough, it is eld; but if the 
claws are sharp and smooth, the division in the Up 
not greatly spread, and the ears will easily tear, it is 
young. If fresh killed, the flesh of both will be 
white and stiff 5 but if stale, supple and blackish in 
many places. To discover a true leveret, feel near 
the foot on its fore leg, and if you find there a knob$ 
or small bone, it is a real leveret, but if destitute of 
this^ it must be a hare. 

A rabbit 

Has long rough claws, and grey hairs intermixea 
with its wool, if it be old 5 but when young, the 
wool and claws are smooth. If stale, it is supple, 
and the flesh blueish, with a kind of slime upon it; 
but if fresh, it will be stiffs and the flesh white and 
dry. 



USEFUL RECKIPT BOOK. 37 



\ 



FISH. 



Fish should be always tried by the gills ', for when 
they are not sweety the fish is not eatable. — Salmon, 
carp, tench, barbie, pike, trout, whiting, &c. when 
the eyes are sunk, the fins hanging, and the gills 
grown pale, are not good. 

Turbot. 

Choose a turbot by its thickness and colour. To 
be good, it should be plump, and the belly of a fine 
cream colour. If of a blueish cast, or thin, they 
are bad. 

Cod. 

This fish is best when thick towards the head, 
and the flesh cuts white. The gills should be very 
red, and the eyes fresh f when flabby, they are not 
good. 

The sturgeon, 

When good, must have a fine blue in its veins 
and gristle -, the flesh must be perfectly white, and 
naust cut without crumbling. 

I * 

i A sole, 

A sole should be chosen in the same manner as a 
^rbot. They are in season nearly the whole year, 
W are best about Midsummer. 

Plaice and flounders. 

To be good, should be stifi^, and have a full eye ; 
^nd the plaice is best when the belly has a blueisli 
cast 

51 



38 DOIIBSTIC GOOKEBY^ AND 



aga 



Herrings and mackarel 

Ajsc unfit for Ihe table when faded^ wrinkled, or 
pliable in the tail. Their gills should be of a fine 
red, and their eyes bright, and the whole fish should 
be sti^ and firm. 

A lobster 

Should be chosen by its weight, the stiffiaeas^of 
its tail, and the firmness of, the sides. Ifyoudi^- 
sire a cock-lobster, select that which has a narrow 
back part of the tail, with the two uppermost fins 
within, the tail hard and stiff like a bone. The back 
of the hen being invariably broader, and her fins 
soft. Always carefully smell at a lobster, which, 
if stale, may be easily known by its muggy smelL 
Crabs, prawns, and shrimps, may be chosen in the 
same manner ; but if kept more than one day, they 
will become bad. 

Scate. 

The best scate are white and thick ; they should 
be kept one day before you dress them, otherwise, 
they will eat tough. 

Oysters, 

There are various species of oysters, but the Colt 
Chester, Pyfleet, and ChUford, are infinitely superior 
to all others, being white and flat, yet the others 
may be made to possess these qualities i^ some de- 
gree, by proper feeding. When alive and stroiie« 
^e shdl doises on the knife, and they shouldbe 
eaten immediately they are opexied, or the flavour 
^vlnbclost. 



\ 



USEFUL BKCSIPT BOOK. 39 

VENISON. 



To choose good venison^ you must observe its 
fatness^ and the deft of the hooft. If the HU ap- 
pears to be dear, bright, and thick, and the dens 
dose and smooth, it is young and delicate 5 but 
otherwise, it is old. 



THE SEASONS OF THE YEAR FOR 

BUTCHER'S MEAT. 



Beef-^ls never out of season all the year round, 
though for salting and hanging, it is best from 
Midiadmas to Lady-day. 

Mutton — Is in season from the middle of August 
till May ; grass lamb comes in with May, and con- 
tinues till September ; house lamb is in high season 
at Christmas, but is very good from October to 
May. 

Pork — Comes in season at Michaelmas, and con- 
tinues so till Aprils but hams and bacon are never 
out of season, when carefully cured. 

Vaal — ^Prom its speedy decay in hot or close 
weather, is generally allowed to be best frT>m 
Christmas to June. 

Bacon — Commences its season at the early part 
of November, and remains till Candlemas. 

Venison — If buck, commences in May, and con- 
tinues till November ; and if doe, frx)m Michaelmas 
to Candlemas. 



I 



40 D0MB8T1C COOKERY, AND 



FOR POULTRY AND GAME 



In January — ^I'urkeys^ both cock and hen^ fowls, 
pullets with egg^ capons^ chickens^ every sort of 
wild fowl^ tame pigeons^ taihe rabbits^ and bares, 
are in season. 

In February — ^Turkeys, cajpons, pullets with egg, 
chickens^ tame and wild pigeons, green geese, duck- 
lings, turkey poults, tame rabbits, hares, and every 
description of wild fowl, are in season. 

In March — ^The poultry, as in the preceding 
month, remain in season, with the exception of tht 
wild fowl, which now go quite out. 

In April — ^Turkey poults, green ffeese, ducklings^ 
pullets, spring fowls, chickens, pigeons, leverets, 
and young wild rabbits, are in season. ^ 

In May — ^Fowls^ chickens, pullets, turkey poults, 
green geese, ducklings, rabbits, and leverets. 

In Jt^ne— Green geese, pullets, chickens, fowls, 
turkey poults, ducklings, plovers, white-ears, rab- 
bits, and leverets. -'f 

In July — ^Fowls, chickens, pullets, green geese, 
pigeons, ducks, ducklings, twkey poults, leverets, 
plovers, wheat-ears, and rsibbits. 

In August — Green-geese, turkey-poults, pullets, 
chickens, fowls, pigeons, leverets, rabbits, plovers; 
■ducklings, wild-ducks, and wheat-ears 

In September— ^oYr\a, pullets, chickens, ducks, 
geese, turkeys, pigeons, larks, teal> pairtridges, 
rabbits, and hares. 

In October — ^Fowls, pullets, chickens, pigeons, 
turkeys, geese, woodcocks, snipes, teals, widgeons, 
wild-ducks, larks, dotterels, partridges, pheasants, 
hares, and rabbits. 

In November — ^Pigeons, chickens, pullets, fowls. 



USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 41 

geese^ turkeys^ larks^ woodcocks^ snipes^ widgeons, 
teals^ wild-ducks^ dotterels, partridges, pheasants, ^^ 
rabbits, and hares. 9k 

In Decein6er-*Capons, fowls, pullets, pigeons, 
turkeys, geese^ snipes, larks, woodcoclLS, rabbits, 
hares, dotterels, chickens, wild-ducks, widgeons, 
teals, pheasants, and partridges^ 



FISH. 



F^om Christmas to Lady-day. — ^Fresh salmon, 
tench, soles^ carp» cod, p]aice, flounders^ mullets, 
whitings, eels, chub, salt fish, stock-fish, red her- 
rings, smelts, gudgeons, perch, oysters, prawns, 
Jpbsters, criabs, craw-fish, thomback, skate, turbot, 
scollc^s, muscles, cockles, sprats, and cod-sounds, 
are in season. 

JF^om Lady-day to Afi(f«tfi?imer*-])iackarel^ tench, 
carp, 'turbot, hoUibut, pj^led salmon, flounders^ 
soles, salmon, trout, dab, tierrings, shad, cratv-fish, 
lobsters, prawns, barbel, thdrnback, roach, bream, 
and dace, are in season. 

From Midsummer to Micktiehnas — ^Tutbot, mac- 
karel, fresh salmon, pickled saUnon, carp, barliel, 
TpSke, lobsters, trout, prawns, crabs, scate, thorn- 
hsdc, eels, soles, dace, and sturgeon, are in season. 

R'Ofn Michaelmas to^Christmas — ^Thomback^ scate 
fimelts> lobsters, soles, cod, eels, tench, carp^ had- 
dock, ftesh salmon, pike, sturgeon^ whiting, hol- 
libut, oysters, cockles, muscles, ling, mullet, floun- 
ders, and sprats, are in season. 



% 3 



. 43 DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AND 



• 



VEGETABLES AND FRUIT. 



January —-Colewort, savoys, cabbage-sprouts^ 
leeks^ onions, brocoli, sorrel, beet, chervil, celery, 
garlic, spinach, endive, potatoes, turnips, parsnips, 
shallots, cresses, lettuces, rape, mustard; all de- 
scription of herbs,' dry and green. — ^By means of 
forcing, mushrooms, cucumbers, and asparagus, may 
be procured, though not in season. 

Fruit. — Pears, nuts, walnuts, apples, medlars, 
and grapes. 

February and March — ^The same as above, with 
the addition of kidney-beans to the vegetables, and 
forced strawberries to the fruit. 

Fruit. — ^Apples, pears, forced strawberries, and 
grapes. 

April — Sprouts, brocoli, coleworts, parsley, fioi- ^ 
Ael> chervil, tarragon, radishes, spinach, bumetjft 
celery, endive, sorrel, lettuces, thyme, young onions, 
and idl sorts of sallad and pot-herbs. 
. Fruit.— Pears, apples, forced cherries, and 
apricots for tarts. 

May — Cauliflowers, artichokes, early cabbages, 
spinach, turnips, carrots, radishes, early potatoes, 
thyme, parsley, sorrel, lettuces, mustard, cresses, 
fennel, bedm, mint, purslane, tarragon, cucumbers, 
asparagus, beans, peas, kidney-beans, and all sorts 
of small sallads and savoury herbs. 

Fruit. — ^Apples, pears, melons, strawberries, 
green i^ncots, gooseberries, cherries, and cuorants 
for tarts. 

June — Beans, peas, onions, parsnips, potatoes, 
radishes, cauliflowers, turnips, spinach, parsley, 
purslane, lettuces, cucumbers, artichokes, asparagus, 
kidney-beans, thyme, rape, cresses, and all sorts 
of small sallads, and pot-herbs. 



USEFUL BSCBIPT BOOK. 43 



Fruits in Junb. — ^MdonSj cherries^ strawber- 
ries^ currants^ and gooseberries for tarts ; and green 
apricots. ^^ 

July — ^Mushrooms^ cauliflowers^ salsiiy; scorzo*^p 
nera, garlick, rocombole, potatoes, onions^ radishes, 
cresses, carrots, turnips, lettuce, purslane, sorrel, 
endive, chervil, finoehia, celery, artichokes, cab- 
bages, sprouts, beans, kidney-beans, peas, mint, 
balm, thyme, and all sorts of small saJlads and pot- 
herbs 

Fruit in July. — Gooseberries, strawberries, ap- 
ples, plums, cherries, raspberries, apricots, damsons, 
currants, and melons. 

August^^Turmps, radishes, potatoes, carrots, peas, 
salsify, scorzonera, shalots, garlick,. onions, beets, 
celery, endive^ sprouts, cauliflowers, cabbages, 
beans, mushrooms, artichokes, kidney-beans, let- 
tuce, finochia, parsley, maijoram, savory, thyme, 
and all sorts of small sallads and soup-herbs. 

^^^emfrer—- Peas, beans, salzify, scorzonera, leeks, 
garlick, onions, shalots, potatoes, carrots, turnips, 
celery, pa)*sley, endive, cardoons, cauliflowers, arti- 
chokes, sprouts, cabbages, mushrooms, kidney- 
beans, finochia, chervil, sorrel, beets, lettuces, and 
all sorts of small sallads and soup-heibs. . 

Fbuit in August and Septbmbbb. — ^Figs, plums, 
peaches, mulberries, filberts, cherries, apples, pears, 
nectarines, melons, pines, strawberries, quinces, 
medlars^ morello cherries, and damsons. 

October — Skirrets, salsify, potatoes, parsnips^ tur- 
nips, carrots, artichokes, caiQiflowers, sprouts, cab- 
bag^, finochia, chervil, cardoons, celery, endive, 
rooombole, garlick, shalots, leeks, scorzonera, chard- 
beets, thyme, savory, lettuce, and all sorts of young 
sallads and pot-herbs. 

Fruit in October — ^Peaches, figs, pears, apples. 



44 D0HB8TIC COOXBBY, AND 






bnHace^ grapes^ damsons^ medlars^ DUts^ quinces^ 
walnuts^ filberts, services, &e. 

November — Potatoes, parsnips, carrots^ turnips, 

orzonera, skirrets, shalots, leeks, onions, cabbage, 
savoys, spinach, coleworts, sprouts, chard-beets, 
cresses, endive, cardoons, celery, lettuces, sallad^ 
pot and other herbs. 

Fbuit in November. — Nuts, walnuts, apples, 
pears, bullace, services, medlars, grapes, and chest- 
nuts. 

December — ^Parsnips, carrots, turnips, purple and 
white brocoli> savoys, cabbages, shalots, onions, 
leeks, salsify, scorzonera, skirrets, potatoes, parsley, 
spinach, beets, endive, celery, rocombole, garlic, 
forced aq)aragu8, cardoons, cresses, lettuces, thyme, 
and all sorts of small sallads and pot-herbs. 

Fbuit. — ^As the last month, with the exception of 
the buUace. 

Oranges are in season so long as they can be ob- 
tained good. 

NoTE.-^The various fruits, as they become ripe, 
should be carefully preserved for winter use; for 
which process, proper directions will be found in 
this yolume, by turning to the Indbx, and by 
means of which a constant supply may Jbe kept up 
throuj^out' the whole year. 




USEFUL RECSIPT BOOK. 45 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



FISH. 



General remarks on dressing Fuh. 

If you do not order your fishmonger to dean the 
fish which you purchase^ it is rarely well done. Be- 
cause^ if not sufficiently washed^ it must be neces- 
sarily filthy ', and^ if washed too much^ the flavour 
is greatly diminished. 

When it is perfectly dean^ if you intend to boil 
it^ some salt^ and a small quantity of vinegar should 
be put into the water to give it firmness ; but 
whitings haddock^ and cod, are much better, if a 
little salted^ and kept one day 5 though when the 
weather is not very warm, they may be k^t two 
days. — Peisons accustomed to purchase fish, may 
procure it at a cheap rate, by taking more than 
they immediately want for. one day, in which case 
sudi as will neither pot nor pickle, nor keep by 
being sprinkled with salt and hung up, will make 
an exceeding fine stew on the following day. 

Such fish as are taken out of fresh water, have 
generally a muddy smell and taste, which may be 
removed by soaking them in strong salt and water, 
after they are nicely cleaned ; or, if they are suffi- 
ciently large to bear it, scald them in the same, 
after which, dry and dress them. 






.*f 



46 D0ME9TIC COOKERY^ AND 



You must be careful to place the fish in the wft' 1^ 
ter while cold> and to let it do gently^ otherwise 
the outside will be broken before the inner part \$ 
half done -, but aU kinds of shell-fish must be pat 
into boiling water, otherwise they will be flabby 
and watery. 

The attention of the cook in dressing fish is par- 
ticularly necessary, in either boiling, broiling, or 
frying, especially the former ; for if not taken up 
the moment it is sufficiently done, it will be breaking 
lo pieces, and very soon spoiled 3 and if the least 
underdone, it will be completely uneatable ; there- 
fore, you should make yourself thoroughly ac* 
quuinted with the time your fish-kettle will boil, at 
a proper distance over a good fire, and then you 
vdll soon be cook enough to dress fish to a given 
time, by putting it on the Are as many minutes be- 
fore it is wanted as it will take to cook it in } but as 
a minute too soon or to9 late will i^il it, an4 no 
directions can be give^ 'to such a nicety of time as 
is necessary for this pui))ose, you mlist therefore be 
careful frequently to try fliem, by raising the fish 
a little in the kettle, and takfi out one of the finb, 
which, if the fish is .enough, will come out with a 

fentle pull, and the ^yes Mrill also turn white. All 
inds ought to be served ut) quickly. 

When small fish are neatly fried, covered with 
crumbs and egg, they make a far more elegant dish 
than if served plain. Considerable attention should 
also be paid to the proper garnishing of fish ; for 
which purpose lemon, parsley, and horse-radish, 
may be made use of. 

The liver and roe should be placed carefully on 
the dish, in such a manner 'that the mistress may 
see them, and consequently send a portion to every 
person in company. 

Always fry fish in clean dripping, as butter gives 



VBEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. . 47 

a bad colour to fried fish> but oil alone is best for 
this purpose^ by such as can afford the expence. 

\\lien you design to broil fish^ it must be sea- 
toned^ floured^ and placed on a very dean gridiron, 
the bars of which^ when hot^ should be rubbed witb 
a piece of suet^ to prevent the fish from sticking. 
Great attention should be paid to broil it on a clear 
fire, and to keep it at such a distance as to prevent 
scorching. 

If the fish is to be fried, it must be placed in a 
soft doth, after it has been properly deaned and 
washed. When it is completely my, wet it with an 
egg, and sprinkle some very fine crumbs of brciad 
over it ', which process, if repeated a secoud'J^fiiipj 
will cause the fish to look much better 5 then, fumng 
a thick bottomed frying-pan upon the fire, coui^ibr 
ing a large quantity of dripping boiling hot, pltiiBi^ 
the fish into it, and let it fry, neither too quick ndn^ 
too slow, till it acquires a fine brown colour, and' id 
supposed ready. 

Garnish with a fiinge of curled parsley, raw — 
or with pa^'sley fried, which must be thus executed : 
— ^when. washed, throw it again into clean water ^ 
when the dripping boils, throw the parsley imme- 
diately into it from the water, and it will instantly 
become g^reen and crisp, and must be taken out with 
a slice. 

' To boil salmon. 

Let it be carefully deaned ; put it into lukewarm 
water, and boil it gently. Salmon, if underdone, is 
extremdy unwholesome. A thick piece will re- 
quire to boil half an hour, and a small piece about 
twenty minutes. Garnish with horse-radish, and 
serve it up wiUi shrimp, lobster, or anchovy sauce* 



r 



48 DOMESTIC COORKRYj AND 



Fo pickle salmon 

Boil it as before directed^ and having taken the 
fish out^ boil as much of the liquor as will cover it, 
with bay leaves^ salt, and pepper-corns 5 to which 
add a sufficiency of vinegar -, pour the whole, when 
cold, over the fish. 

To ffroU salmon. 

Cut slices moderately thick, and having seascmed 
them, place each slice in half a sheet of white pa- 
per, well buttered, observing to twist the ends of 
it ', then broil them over a slow fire for about eight 
minutes. Serve them up in the paper, with anchovy 
or shrimp sauce. 

To pot salmon. 

Take one or more pieces of salmon, which must 
be carefully scaled and wiped, but not washed ; 
salt it well, and suffer it to remain till the salt is 
melted and drained away from it ; then season with 
cloves, whole pepper, and beaten mace -, lay in a 
small number of bay leaves, place it in a pan, co- 
ver the whole with butter, and bake it ^ if a large 
fish, do it three hours ; if a small one, two hours. 
When done, drain it well from the gravy, put it 
into the pots to keep, press it close down, and 
when cold, cover it with clarified butter. This 
manner of dressing fish may be successfully used 
with any fin fish. 

Salmon collared, ^ 

Split enough of the fish to form a handsome roll, 
wash, and wipe it 3 then, having previously mixed a 
sufficient quantity of white pepper, pounded mace, 
salt, and Jamaica pepper, to season it highly, rub 
it inside and out well -, after which^ roll it tight^ 



USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 49 

Uid bandage it ; put as much water and one third 
^egar as will cover it^ with salt^ bay leaves^ and 
both sorts of pepper -, then cover it dose^ and sim- 
mer it till done enough. Drain and boil quick the 
liquor^ which put on when cold 3 serve with fennel. 
This forms an elegant dish^ and may be esteemed 
as a peculiar delicacy. 

To boil turbot, 

Turbot should lie about two hours in pump wa- 
ter, with salt and vinegar. During this time^ water 
should be prepared to boil it in^ of which there 
should be a sufficient quantity to cover the fish well, 
impregnated with a stick of horse-radish sliced, a 
handful of salt, and a bunch of sweet herbs. When 
this water has acquired a sufficient taste of the 
seasoning, take it o£f the fire, and let it cool, before 
you put in the turbot^ which would otherwise crack. 
A middle-sized turix>t will require to be boiled 
twenty mint|tes : when enough^ drain it. Serve it 
gami^ed with a fringe of curled parsley, and the 
sauce must be lobster, or anchovy. 

To fry turbots or brill. 

Take a well-cleaned brill or small turbot, cut it 
across as if it was ribbed, and flour it -, and put it in 
a large frying-pan, with boiling lard enough to 
cover it. Fry it till it is brown, and then drain it. 
Clean the pan^ put into it half a pint of white wine 
and half a pint of white gravy, one anchovy, salt, 
nutmeg, and a little ginger. Put in the fish, and let 
it stew till half the Uquor is wasted ; then take it 
out, and put in a piece of butter rolled in flour, and 
a squeeze of lemon ; let them simmer till of a proper 
thickness. Lay the turbot in the dish, and pour the 
saiice over it. 



4 



50 DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AND 

I 111 " ■ ■ ■!— ii> 

Cod*8 head and shoulders. 

Rub the back-bone with a little salt^ which w3L . 
cause it to eat much finer ; then lie it up^ and pot' 
it on the fire^ cosipletely covered with cold wat^Kj 
into which tilirow a handful of salt^ and let it boil, 
gently tiU enough. , Particular care must be tajodii^ 
to serve it without a speck of black or scum. Gar- 
nish with lemon^ horse-radish^ and the milf^ roe^ 
and liver. Serve it with oyster or shrimp sauce. 

A cod, when dressed whole, is boiled and served 
up in the same manner. 

Crimp cod 
Blay be either boiled, broiled, or fried. 

Cod^s sounds hoiUd, 

Soak them for about half an hour in warm water, 
then scrape and dean them; and if you wish them 
to look white^ boil them in milk and water tiU tear 
der. Serve them with egg sauce, in a napkiiiL 

Cod*8 sounds broiled. 

Lay them in warm water a fe:pr minutes, rub them 
with salt, then scraps off the ^kin and dirt, aad 
put them into water, i^id boil them. Take theia 
out, and flour them well, p&p^, salt, and broil, 
them. Wh«n enough, lay them in.a di^ and pp^. 
melted butter and mustani into it^ or a little brv^vn 
gravy, to which add a little mustard, and aJ^t;o£ 
butter rolled in flour; give it atKiil* se^LSoa n^itt^ 
pepper, aud salt, and pour it over it^ sounds. 

How to boU scatCf 

Care must be taken in cleaning .this fish; and as 
it is generally too large to be boiled in a pai^ai oac^,- 




tTfiBrUL nZCEIPT BOOK. 51 



it should be cut into long slips^ crossways^ about 
ap il^ broad^ and thrown into salt and watery 
when, if the. water boils quick, it will be done in 
three minutes. Drain it well 5 garnish with horse- 
radish or lemon^ and serve it up with butter snd 
mustard in a sauce tureen^ and anchovy sauce in 
another. 

To boil salt eod. 

Soak and clean it well^ then lay it all night in 
Water witii a little vinegar. Boil it sufficiently^ 
then beat it into flakes on the dish ; pour over it 
parsnips boiled^ pounded in a mortar, and then 
boil it up vnth cream, and a large piece of butter 
rubbed with flour. It may be served with eeg 
sauce, or the fish may be boiled, and sent up wim- 
tat flaking, and with the parsnips whole. 

To boil sturgeon. 

Irving cleaned a sturgeon well, boil it in as 
mucA liquor a& will just cover it 5 add two or three 
bits of lemon-peel, some whole pepper, a stick of 
horse-radish, and a pmt of vinegar to every half 
gallon of water. 

When done, garnish the dish -with fried oysters, 
sliced lemon, and horse radish, and serve it up 
with melted butter, with cavear dissolved in it ; 
or with anchovy sauce; and with the body of a 
crab in the butter, and a little lemon juice. 

To roast sturgeon. 

Place it on a lark spit> which fEisten on a large 
spit, baste it continually with butter, and serve 
With a good gravy, some lemon juice, and a glass 
dr sherry. 



58 DOMESTIC COOKEBT^ AND 

Maids 

Should^ to eat well, be hung one day^ and then 
lied in the same manner as other fish. 

Slewed carp. 

Take half grfivy and half claret, as much as wiU 
cover your carp in the pan, with mace, whole pep- 
per, a few cloves, two anchovies, a shalot or (mica, 
a small portion of horse radish, and a little salt ; • 
cover your pan dose, that the steam may not es- 
cape j and stew them very slowly for at least one 
hour. When the carp is done, take it out, and boil 
the liquor as fast as possible, till it be just enough to 
mcd^e sauce, flour a bit of butter, and throw into it : 
squeeze the juice of one lemon, and pour it over 
the carp -, serve with sippets of fried bread, the 
roe fried, and a good deal of horse-radish and le- 
mon. 

Boiled cttrp. 

Serve in a napkin, with the same sauce as stowed 
carp. This is the best method of dressing carp. 

To fry carp. 

After they are well scaled and cleaned, lay them 
on a cloth to dry, and then fry them in the same 
manner as other fish 3 fry some toast, cut three- 
cornered ways, and the roes. When done, lay them 
on a coarse doth to drain: lay your carp in the 
dish, your roes on each side, and garnish with the 
fried toast and lemon. — Serve them with butter and 
anchovy, and lemon-juice. 

To bake carp. 

Clean a brace of carp well, then take an earthen 
pan, butter it a little^ and lay your carp in, season 



irSBFUL R£CBIPT BOOC. 53 



them with ^dores^ nutmegs inace^ black and white 
pepp^r^ a bundle of sweet herbs^ an onion, an an- 
chovy, and pour in a bottle of white wine^ bake 
them an hour in a hot oven. When done, take 
them carefully up, and lay them in a dish : set it 
over hot water to keep them warm, and cover them 
dose. Then pour the liquor in which they were 
baked into a saucepan, boil it a few minutes, then 
rtrain it, and add half a pound of butter rolled in 
£biir : let it boil, and keep it stirring. Squeeze in 
the jmee of half a lemon, and ptit in what salt you 
require 3 pour the sauce over the fish, lay the roes 
round, and garnish with lemon 3 but be careful to 
skim all the &t off the liquor. 

To pot carp. 

Cut off the head and tail, take out the bones, and, 
deanse it well, and then do it exactly the same 
as salmon. 

Ferch and tench. 

Place them in cold water, boil them gently, and 
serve them with mdted butter and soy. Garnish 
with lemon and horse-radish. They may be fried 
or stewed, the same as carp^ but are not then so 
fine flavoured. 

To fry trout. 

Wash, gut, and scale them, then dry them, and 
lay them on a board, dustiihg th^m at the same 
tim^ with some Hour. Fry them findy brown with 
fresh dripping : serve with crimp pidrsiey and mdted 
butter.. Tench and Perch may be diessed in the 
same manner. 

To boU trout, 
Bdl them in vinegar, w»t^> and salt^ with a 

F 3 



54 DbMESTIC COOKCRV^ AND 



piece of horse-radish. White sauce^ anchovy Baute, 
and plain butter. 

To slew trout. 

Select a large trout^ clean it well^ and place it in 
a pan with gravy and white wine 3 then take two 
eggs buttered^ some nutmeg, salt, and pepper, 
lemon-peel, a little thyme, and^some grated bread, 
mix them together, and put in the belly of the 
trout, then suffer it to stew a quarter of an hour ; 
then put in a piece of butter in the sauce 5 serve it 
hot, and garnish with lemon sliced. ^ 

To pot trout, perch, or tench. 

Scale and clean the fish, cut off the head, tail, 
and fins, take out the bones, season the same, and 
bake and pot it as directed for salmon. 

MackareU 

When boiled, serve them with butter and fennel. 
To broil them, split and sprinkle with p^per and 
salt, or stuff them with pepper, salt, herbs, and. 
chopped fennel. 

Collar then) the same as eels. 

To pot them, clean, season, and bake them in aa 
pan with bay leaves, spice, and some butter : whfiii ^ 
cold, place them in a potting-pot, and cover them . 
with clarified butter. — ^To pickle them, boil them j 
then boil some of the liquor, a few pepper->coms, 
vinegar, and bay leaves 5 and when perfectly cold, 
pour it over them 

Red mullet, 

<9 Clean them, but leave the inside, enclose them in 
oUed paper, and having placed them in a small dish, 
bake them gently ; an excellent sauce may be mad9 




USEFUL RECKIPT BOOK. 55 

of the liquor that comes from the fish^ by addmg a 
little essence of anchovy^ a glass of sherry^ and a 
piece of butter rolled in flour -, give it a boil^ and 
serve it in a butter tureen. The fish must be served 
in the paper cases. 

N. B. Mullets are boiled and broiled the same as 
salmon. 

To bake pike. 

Clean and scale them well> open as near the 
throat as copvenient^ and use the following stuflKng : 
grated breads anchovies, herbs^ salt, suet, oysters^ 
mace, pepper^ four yolks of eggs, and, if it can 
be procmred, half a pint of cream ; mix it over the 
fire till it is sufficiently thick, then put it into the 
fish, and sew it carefully up 3 then put some small 
bits of butter over the fish, and bake it 3 serve it 
up with gravy^ butter^ and anchovy. 

To boil or fry soles. 

Soles, when boiled, should be carefully attended 
to, that they may look white 3 to do which, they 
should lay two hours in vinegar, salt, and water, 
and afterwards be dried in a doth, an4 then put into 
the fish-kettle with an onion, some whole pepper, 
and a little salt -, serve with anchovy, shrimp, or 
.muscle sauce. 

If fried, do them in the same manner, as other 
fish, with egg, crumbs, and lard, till they are of a 
fine brown. 

To stew soles, flounders, plaice. 

These three different species of fish must be 
stewed in one and the same manner. Half fry 
them in butter till of a fine brown; then take 
them up, put to your butter a quart of water, three 



56 DOMESTIC COOKEiY> AND 



anchovies^ and an onion sliced. Put your fish in 
again^ and stew it gently half an hour. Take out 
'the fish^ squeeze in a lemon^ and thicken the sauce 
with butter and flour } having given it a boil^ strain 
it through a sieve over the fish^ and serve up with 
oyster^ or shrimp sauce. 

To boU haddocks. 

Scale, gut^ and wash them well^ but do not rip 
their bellies open, but extract fbt guts with the 
gills ', then dry the fish in a clean cloth : should 
there be any roe or liver, put it in again, fkfdr them 
well, and have a good clear fire 3 then lay them cm 
your gridiron, and turn them quick two 01^ » three 
times to prevent their sticking -, when enough, serve 
them with plain butter. 

Stuffing for pike, haddock, and small cod. 

Take an equal quantity of fat bacon, beef suet, 
and fresh butter, some savoury, thymes and parsley, 
a few leaves of sweet . marjoram, two anchovies, 
with some salt, pepper, and nutmegs to this add 
crumbs, and an egg to bind; Oysters added to the 
above will be a considerable improvement. 

To dress a large plaice. 

Keep it a day sprinkled with salt, after whidi 
wash and wipe it dry, wet it over with egg, and 
cover with. crumbs of bread. When your laitl.^ to 
which must be added two table spoonsful of vme- 
gar, is boiling hot, lay the fish in it, and fry it of 
a fine colour 5 when enough, drain it from the fat, 
and tserve willi fried parsley and anchovy sauee. 

Smehs 
Should be fried in ^e same manner as other flsh^ 



USRFVL RECEIPT BOOK. 57 



with eggB, crumbs, and Ix^iling lard, being particu- 
larly attentive to do them of a fine colour, on which 
-much of their beauty depends. 

To spitchcock eels. 

Take two large eels, and cut them into pieces, 
each three inches long, with the skin on, open them . 
and dean them well, dry them in a doth, then wet 
them with egg, and stew them with cut parsley, 
salt, pepper, and a bit of mace findy beaten. Then 
having rubbed your gridiron with a bit of suet, do 
the fish of a fine colour. Serve with anchovy and 
butter. They mayj^e dressed dther whole or cut, 
and with the skins off or on : if dressed whole, 
make them into forms agreeable to fency with a 
skewnr. 

Fried eels 

Should always be dipped into egg and crumbs of 
bread, which materially improve their appearance at 
table. 

Boiled eels, 

Sdect the small eels for boiling, and place them 
in a small quantity of water -, and when enough, 
serve with chopped parsley and butter. 

Collared eels. 

Slit open the eel, take out the bones^ cut off the 
head and tail, and lay it flat on the dresser. Shred 
some sage fine, and mix it with black pepper, 
grated nutmeg, and salt. Lay Jt all over ^e ed, 
and roll it up hard in little cloths, tying it up tight 
at each end. Then set on some water, with pep- 
per, salt, five or six cloves, three or four blades of 
mace, and a bay-leaf or two. Boil these, with the 
boiies> head^ and tail 3 then take out the bones^ 



58 DOUBSTIC COOKXRT^ AVD 

head^ and tail, and put in the eels. Let them boil 
till tender^ then take them out of the liquor^ and 
boil the liquor longer. Take it o£P^ and when cold, 
put it to the eels; cover it close, but do not take 
off the little cloths^ till the eels are used.. 

To roast lobsters. 

Having boiled your lobsters, lay them before the 
fire, and baste them well with butter, till they have 
a fine froth ; serve them with plain melted butter. 

To butter shrimps. 

Take a quart of shrimps, stew them in half a piot 
of white wine, a good piece of batter, and a grated 
nutm^. When the butter is melted, and the 
shrimps are hot through, beat the yolks of fbor 
eggs with a little white wine, and pour it in; then 
dish it on sippets, and garnish with sliced lemon. 

To make anchovy sauce. 

For this purpose, take a pint of gravy, put in an 
anchovy, roll a quarter of a pound of butter in a 
little flour, which add to it, and stir the whole to- 
gether till it boils. To this, if you wish it, may 
be added lemon-juioe, red wine, and ketchup. 

To fry oysters. 

Make a batter, then having washed your oyeiters, 
and wiped them dry, dip them into the batter, and 
roll them in some crumbs of bread, and mace finely 
beaten, fry them as other fish. . 

To stew oysters. 

Drain off the liquor of the oysters, and wash 
tAem in water^ then mix the liquor drained from 



USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 59 

tliem with an equal quantity of water and white 
wine^, a small portion of whole pepper^ and a blade 
oF mace. Place this mixture over the lire, and 
boil it well; then lay in the oysters, and let them 
just boil up, and thicken the whole with butter 

rolled in flour. Serve them with sippets and the 

Uquor, and garnish. with sliced lemon. 

N.B. Some persons leave out the white wine. 

To stew lampreys. 

Clean the fish, and remote the sinew which runs 
down the back ; season with nutmeg, pepper, mace, 
cloves, and allspice; place it in a stewpan with 
strong beef gravy ^ port wine, and an equal portion 
of Madeira 5 cover it dose, and let it stew till ten- 
d^, then take out the lamprey, and preserve it hot, 
while you boil up the liquor, with a few anchovies 
minced, and some flour and butter: strain th^ 
gravy through a sieve, to which add lemon juice, 
and some made mustard: serve vtrith sippets of 
bread and horse-radish. Cyder will do, instead of 
wtutewine^ 

To fry lamprey. 

Bleed them, and save the blood, then yra^ themi, 
in hot water, and cut them in pieces ; fry them ia' 
fresh butter, but not enough, pour out the fa,t, put 
in a little white wine, give the pan a shake round^ 
season it with whole pepper, salt, nutmeg, sweet 
herbs, and' a bay leaf; then put in a few capers, 
a large piece of butter rolled in flour, and' thW 
blood, shake the pan round often, and cover theniu 
dose. When enough, take them out, strain the 
sauce; then give it a quick boil/ squeeze in a little 
lemon-juice, and pour all over the fish: garuislk^ 
witji lemon, '' rj 



60 DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AND 



Fried herrings 

Must be done a light brovm^ and served with 
onions sliced and fried 3 . in which manner they are 
very excellent 

Broiled herrings. 

When floured^ broil them of a good colour^ and 
serve them with plain melted butter^ and mustard. 
Great care must be taken not to burn or smoke 
them. 

Potted herrings,^ 

The same as potted mackarel. 

Sprats 

Should be wiped clean with a cloth, and fiistened 
together by long skewers run through the heada ; 
then broiled, and served hot and hot, otherwise 
they will not eat so well. 

To pot lobsters and shrimps. 

Parboil them, then extract the meat, and chop it 
into small pieces, season with white pepper, ai|t- 
meg, mace, and salt, press the whole into a pot, 
and cover it with butter 3 bake half an hour, and 
then put the spawn in 3 when perfectly cold, take 
the lobster out, and lay it in the pots with a little 
of the butter. Beat the remaining butter in a mor- 
tar with a portion of the qiawn^ then mix the 
butter thus coloured with as much as will serve to 
cover the pots, and strain it. 

Stewed lobsters. 

Pick the lobster well, lay the spawn in a disk 
that has a lamp, and rub -them down with a piece 
of butter, four spoonsful of any sort of gravy, two 




USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK 61 



of soy^ a small portion of salt, cayenne^ two spoons- 
fol of port wine. Then stew the lobster^ cut into 
bits with the gravy as above. 

Hot crab. 

Extract the meat, dear the shell from the head, 
then put the head, with a nutmeg, salt, pepper, a 
Int of butter, crumbs of bread, and three spoonsful 
of vinegar, into the shell agidn, and set it before 
the fire. Serve it with dry toast. 

To broil whitmgs, or haddocks. 

Wash your fish with water and salt, and dry 
them weU, wet^them with a little vinegar to keep 
their skins whole, and flour them, make your grid- 
iron hot, having previously rubbed it with beef- 
suet, lay them on, turn them often to prevent 
thdr sticking; and when enough, serve theni up 
vnth shrimp sauce, or melted butter and ..anchovy 
sauce. 

To scalbp oysten, 

Lay^ them in sc^aUop shells,' or saucers, with 
crumbs of bread, pepper^ nutmeg, salt^ and a piece 
of butter, bake them in a Dutch oven. 

V 

To pickle oysters, 

Wasb eight dozen of the laigest oysters in their 
own liquor, wipe them dry, strain the liquor off, 
then add to it two desert spoonsful of pqiper, four 
blades of mace, and two table spoonsful of salt, six 
of white wine, and eifi:ht of vinegar. Let the oys- 
ters simmer a short time in the liquor, then place 
them in jars, boil the pickle up, skim it care^dly, 
and when perfectly cold, pour it over the oysters, 
and tie them closely down. 




6Q DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AND 



To dress a turtle. 

Take the head ofif close to the shell, and open 
the callapee, observing to leave some of the meat 
to the breast and shell : take the entrails out, and 
scald thera in water with' the callapee 3 open the 
guts, and dean them corefullyj chop them small, 
^d stew them four hours by themselyes; divide 
the other meat into moderate pieces, clean the find 
in the same manner as goose giblets, cut them in 
pieces, and stew the meat and fin$ together one 
hour, then strain them off, and season with cayenne, 
a bottle of Madeira, salt, pepper, aad' other spice, 
four ounces of butter, and force-^meat balls ; thicken 
the soup, and lay the meat and entrails into it -, then 
pu*. the whole into the deep shell, and bake it in 
an oven. 

The callapee is done two way^, with- brown and 
white sauce, with a paste run in the centre^ and 
anodier round the ed^e of the dish that the turtle 
is bioked in. But the best callapee must be cracked 
in the middle. The white side should be served 
Wiith yolks of eggs, wine, lemon;, cream, and but- 
ter drawn up thick, and poured over when it coiyes 
fhmi the oven, and the brown with some of the 
same sance that is put in the callapee. 



SOUPS AND BROTHS. 



OBSERVATIONS. 



Particular attention is necessary to see that your 
pots, saucepans, &c. in which you intend to make 



USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 68 

soup> are well tinned^ and perfectly Dree from sand, 
dirt, or grease; otherwise your soups will be ill 
tasted, and pemicioufi to tlie xonstitution; care 
must be paid in vespect to the quantity of water, 
-which should never be much more than you wish 
to haYc soup. 

Gravy soup is invlyriably the best, when the juices 
are fresh* Soups, when preserved* should be 
chaqged daily into fresh pans, well scalded; and 
they should on no account be kept in metal. 

When you make any kind of soups that have 
herbs or roots in them, remember to lay yoiu* meat 
at the bottom of the pan, with a piece of butter. 
Then cut the roots and herbs small, and having 
laid them over your meat cover your pot or sauce- 
]ian very dose, and place it over a slow fire, which 
will draw all the virtues out of the vegetables, and 
turn them to a good gravy* When your gravy is 
almost dried up, replenish it with water ; and take 
off the fat. In the preparation of white soup^ 
remember never to put in your cream till you take 
your -soup off the fire, and the last thing you do, 
must be the dishing of your soups, for some will 
get a skim over them by standing, and ^thfers will 
settle to the bottom, both which must be avoided 
Lastly, let the ingredients of your soups and broths 
be so properly proportioned, that they may not taste 
of one thing more than another, but that the taste 
be equal, and the whole of a fine and agreeable re- 
lish. If too thin, a little butter mixed with flour 
will always increase the richness, and give a proper 
thickness to the soup. 

Fat may be removed firom the surface of soup by 
a tea-cupful of flour and water, well mixed and 
boiled in. 

Soups require a considerable time to boil, and 
shoidd, if convenient, be made one day before they 



04 DOMESTIC COOKSBY^ AMD 

are wanted, by which means the fat can be taken 
off when cold. 

Cow-heel jelly is a great improvement to eovxps, 
makipg it rich^ but not ^ ^ as are also truffles and 
morels. 

Gravy soup. 

Boil the bones of a rump of beef, with a piece 
of the neck^ till their richness is extracted ; strain 
the liquor through a sieve, then leaven some butter, 
and add to it an onion, a few cloves, cellery^ endive, 
turnips, and carrots^ with salt^ and whole pepper, 
in such portions as you may think proper, and 
mixing these with the liquor, boil them till the 
herbs and roots are become tender 3 then serve it 
up with toasted bread cut into small pieces. 

Beef tea. 

Take a pound of beef perfectly lean, chop it -into 
small pieces^ and boil it in one gallon of water 
vnth a slice of under-crust of white breads and a 
small portion of salt 3 let it boil till reduced to two 
quarts, then stvain it^ and xhake use of it as ne- 
cessary. 

Veal broth. 

Stew a knuckle in a^ gallon of water, sgme salt, 
three ounces of rice, and two blades of mace, till 
the quantity of water is one half reduced. 

Good soup. 

Take some slices of bacon, a knuckle of veal, 
mace, onions, and a small quantity of water, let It 
simmer till very strong, when it may be reduced^ 
by adding beef broth, and stewed till the meat is 
done to rags ^ add vermicelli, cream, and a rcUL 




USJEFUL RJfiCSIFr BOOK. 



dfck 



Cui a neck of mutton in two^ boU' the scrag in a 
gallon of water^ being careful to skim it weU> . then 
put in a small bundle of sweet herhs^ a crust of 
bread, and one ,onion. Let it boil an hour^ then 
put in the other part of mutton^ with a turnip or 
two y marigolds, a few chives well chopped, and 
some parslqr also cut fine> should be put in about 
ten minutes before the broth is enough. Season it 
with salt, and a quarter of a pound of pearl barley 
niay be put in with advantage at first. 

Pease snup 

Should be made with split peas and a leg of 
pork y and Jiiaving taken out and strained the liquor 
through a sieve^ put a pint of split peas to five 
quarts of it> with cellery to your £[incy ; season 
with salt and black pepper. Any pieces of meat in 
the house will be an improvement to'it^ particu- 
larly liam-bones^ roots of tongues, &c. 

Green pease soup. 

Having prepared a strong beef broth clear it 
off 5 shred some spinach, cabbage, lettuce, and a 
small porti6n of mint and parsley. Lay eight ounces 
of butter in a stewpan, spiinkle in some flour, and 
bum it over the fire, then throw in t^e hcfrbs, and 
toss them up a little with it j after which, pour in 
the broth, and one quart of green peas parboiled ;- 
let them simmer over the fire forty minutes, then 
throw in some slices of French bread, previously 
well dried before the firej season with salt, maoe, 
and pepper, after which let the whole stew thirty 
rainutes longer. 

Serve this soup in a dish garnished with spinach 

G 3 



§B DOMESTIC COOKBBYj AND 

I = 



ColouHngfor soups or gravies. 

Take eight ounces of loaf sugar^ two gills of 
water^ oiie ounce of fine butter^ and place it jn a 
small saucepan pver the fire^ observing to stir it 
constantly with a wooden spoon^ till it acquires a 
fine brown colour ; then add a pint of water^ when 
it must be again boiled^ and carefully freed from 
scum. When cold^ bottle and cork it welL 

A plain white soup. 

Take a small knuckle of veal, and three quarts of 
water^ boil it till the meat falls to pieces^ and the 
water is reduced to about three pints. On the fol- 
lowing day^ take off the hi, and remove the sedi- 
ment^ then put it into a well tinned sau^epan^ and 
add vermicelli^ a small piece of firesh lemon-peel> 
and a blade of finely powdered mace ; serve with 
the addition of half a pint of new milk^ ja quarter 
of a pint of cream^ and a sufficiency 3f ground rice 
to give it a proper consistency. 

Chicken broth. 

Put a young cock> after skimming him and taking 
away the fat, and breaking him to pieces^ into twd 
quarts of water^ add a crust of bread and two blades 
of mace, fioil this liquor weU down^ and then add 
a quart more of boiling water^ cover it dose, let it 
boil about forty minutes, and then strain it off^ sea- 
soning. 

Giblet soup. 

Take three sets of giblets, stew them with two 
poundd of gravy beef, a bunch of sweet herbs, two 
onions, and a sufficiency of white pepper and ssJt $ 
add to this six pints of water, and let it simmer till 
the gizzards (which must be divided) are perfectly 



USEFUL RBCSirr BOOK. 



tender. Skim it dean^ then add three tea-spoons- 
fiil of mushroom powder^ and three quarters of an 
ounce of good butter rolled in flour : let it boil ten 
minutes^ strain it^ and serve with the giblets. 

OytUr soup. 

Make your stock of liquor^ to the quantity of 
two quarts^ with any sort of tish the place affords ; 
put one pint of oysters bearded into a saucepan^ 
strain the liquor^ stew them five minutes ia their 
own liquor^ then pound the hard parts of the oyster 
in a mortar with the yolks of three hard eggs^ 
mix them with some of the soup^ then lay them 
with the remainder of the oysters and liquor in 
a saucepan^ with nutmegs pepper^ and salty let 
them boil a quarter of an hour^ when they will be 

done. 

I-" 

Eel soup. 

Take two pounds of eels^ two quarts of water> 
a crust of breads six blades of mace« two onions; a 
few corns of whole pepper, and a buncKe of sweet 
herbs 3 boil them till half the liquor is wasted, then 
'strain it^ and serve it up with toasted bread. ^ 

• 

- Macaroni soup. 

Boil two pounds of good macaroni in half a 
gallon of stock, till perfectly tender, then divide it 
equaDy, and put one half in another stew pot 3 add 
some more stock to the remainder, and continue it 
over the fire till done enough to squeeze the maca- 
roni through a sieve : then add together that, the 
two iJqujiipfitfDmc boiling hot cream, according to 
fancy^ the macaroni that was first taken out, and 
make the whole hot« without suiBering it to boil: 
ferve it with rasped crust cut small. 



DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AND 

■ 1 M\ \ 



Good clear brown stock for grav^ *oup, or gravy. 

Take a knuckle of veal^ a pound of lean bacon, 
an<La pound and a half c^ lean beef, all sliced, and 
put the whole into a stew pan with three onions, 
two carrots, three turnips, two or three heads of 
celery, and five pints of water , stew the meat ten- 
der, but on- no account make it brown. Stock thus 
prepared, will serve either for spup^ or brown or 
white gravy -, as it can be easily coloured with the 
colouring previously described. 

yegeiable soup. 

Pare and slice eight cucumbers, add the insides 
of eight cos-lettuces, a couple of sprigs of mint, four 
onions, pepper, salt, parsley, and a quart of young 
peas: lay all these in a saucepan, with twelve 
ounces of butter, and let them stew in their own 
liquor near a gentle fire, forty minutes, then pout 
tliree quarts of boiling water on the vegetables, 
and stew them nearly three hours : thicken it with 
flour and water, and then serve it. 

Carrot soup. 

Take one gallon of liquor in which beef or mut- 
ton has been boiled, and put in it some beef bones, 
three onions, two turnips, with a sufficiency of 
pepper and salt, stew the above at least for two 
hours, then scrape and slice eight large carrots, 
strain the soup on them, and boil the whole tiU 
the carrots are sufiiciently done to pulp through a 
sieve ; then boil the pulp with the soi^ till it be- 
comes as thick as pease soup. 

N. B. This soup should be prepared the day be- 
fore it is wanted, 'and the use of iron spoons should 
be carefully avoided ft may be seasoned according 
to fancy with cayenne^ &c, 



/ 




USRFUL KECE1FT BOOK. 



Soup maigre. 

Take two quarts of green peas. Mour and firy 
thexn^ eight onions finely sliced^ celery^ three car- 
rots^ two turnips^ and the same number of pars- 
nips 3 then pour over them six quarts of water,«and 
stew it till the whole will pulp through a coarse 
cloth or sieve 3 then boil it quick^ and serve it up. 

Partridge soup. 

Take four old partridges, clean, skin, and cut 
them into pieces^ with eight slices of ham, two 
heads of celery, and five onions, cut into sli^^s, 
firy them nicely broWn in butter, but be careful to 
prevent them from burning 3 then lay them in a 
stew-pan with seven pints of boiling water, sofme 
pepper-coms> a bit of beef or mutton, and a small 
portion of salt. Let the whole stew three hours, 
then strain it, and again put it in the stew-pan, 
and place it on the fire till near boiling, then serve . 
it up. 

Pepper pot 

Consists of equal portions of fish, fiesh, fowls^ 
and vegetables, with a small quantity of pulse : two 
pounds of each will require six quarts of water 3 
a small suet dumpling may be boiled with it, and 
the fai should be carefully taken off as feist as it 
rises. — Season with cayenne and salt. 

The whole must be stewed till the meat is com- 
pletely tender. 

Onion soup. 

Take the liquor in which a leg of mutton has been 
boiled, into which put some carrots and turnips, 
and such bones as yoi^ may have 3 stew the whole 
two hours> then strain the liquor on five onions. 



90 DOMESTIC cookery; AND 

mm , I ■ I r !■ 

which have been previously sliced and fried of a 
fine brown Qolour -, then let the whole simmer two 
hours, longer, (being particularly careful to skim i^ 
well) atid serve it with toasted bread. 

Hare soup. 

Cut an old h<u*e into bits^ and add to it two 
pounds of very lean beef, a quarter of a pound of 
lean bacon, a bunch of sweet herbs and two onions^ 
en which pour five pints of Unling water^ simmer 
till the hare is done to rags^ then season with . cay- 
enne^ soy^ and salt. Serve it with force-meat balls. 

Seup-d'la'Sap, 

Take one pound of grated potatoes, two pounds 
of beef cut into thin slices, a quart of grey peas, 
three onions, and six ounces of rice, to which add 
six quarts of water, which reduce to five by boiling. 
Strain the whole through a cullender -, after which 
pulp the peas into it, then put it into the saucepan 
again, with three heads of celery nicely sliced, stew 
it tender, and season with salt and pepper, and a 
little ketchup and soy, according to ^cy. 

Mock turtle soup. 

Cut a calf f-head, with the skin on, in halves, 
clean it well, parboil it, and cut all the meat in 
small square pieces j then break the bones, and 
boil them in some beef broth : fry some shalots hi 
•butter, and add enough of flour to thicken the 
ffravy, stir this into the browning, and give it a 
boil, taking off the scum; then add a pint of 
Madeira, and let the whole simmer, till the meat is 
perfectly tender > when nearly enough, throw in 
•oifie chives, parsley, basil, salt, cayenne pepper, 
one spoonful of ^y, and three of mushroom ket- 




USEFUL RBCEIPT BOOK. 



m 



chap; then squeeze a little lemon juice into the 
tureen^ pour your soup on it« and serve with force- 
iBeat balls. 

A very cheap mock-turtle soup may be made by 
baking three cow^heels^ with herbs^ - &c. as abore, 
to which must be added pieces of boiled cow-heels 
and veal. 



GEIAVIES AND SAUCB&. 



OBSERVATIONS. 



The cheapest method of making gravy is to ^se 
beef skirts and kidneys^ which will answer equally 
well as other meat^ if prepareif in the same man- 
ner. A considerable improvement may be made in 
gravies^ by adding the shank-bones of mutton^ well 
cleaned. A milt will also make excellent gravy. 

A good stock gravy. 

Put six pounds of beef into two gallons of water^ 
(for which purpose the neck^ free from fat, is the 
best,) seasoii with salt, and black and White pef^er 
whole ; add four Med onions, two blades of mace, 
and a bunch of herbs. Let it boil, till reduced one 
half^ then strain, and keep it for use. 

Brown gravy, 

. Take one pound of lean coarse beef, score it 
small, flour it, and lay it in a stew pan, with two 
onions sliced, a small piece of butter, some salt^ 
pepper, and allspice to your pcdatC] and fry it' 
ovar a gentle iSre till the meat becomes browti on 



V'"**"' 






79 DOMESTIC COOKERY, AND 



both sides, but it must not be burnt. Then pour 
on it a quart of boiling water, cover it close, and 
set it again over the fire 3 let it stew forty minutes, 
strain it, and ^skim the &t carefully o£ A small 
piece of milt makes it much richer. 

Brown gravy without meat. 

Take of water, and ale that is not bitter, one 
pint each, of walnut pickle, mushroom pickle, and 
ketchup, two table spoonsful each, two anchovies, 
two- onions shred, some salt, two or three blades of 
mace, and some whole pepper ; to the above ingre- 
dients, add a quarter of a pound of butter, with a 
small portion of flour, having previously made it 
brown by stirring it tiU the firoth sinks. Then boil 
the whole together for twenty minutes, strain it, 
and use it. 

White gravy. 

Cut two pounds of veal into small pieces, and 
boil them with tome salt, two onions, two blades 
of mace> five or six cloves, and about thirty black 
pepper-corns^ in two quarts of water, till reduced 
to the richness required. 

Gravy for a fowl. 

Boil the liver, gizzard, and neck, in a pint of 
water, with a small piece of bread toasted brown, 
pepper, salt, and thyme. Let it boil to half a pint, 
then add a glass of port wine, and strain it. Thicken 
with butter and flpur. 

To melt butter thick. 

Barely moistei\the bottom of yoilr saucepan with 
water ; cut your butter into slices, and Lay it in 
the saucepan before the water you have put in 
becomes warm. As the butter melts^ stir the pan 



USEFUL RECKIPT BOOK. 73 



^^ne way frequently, and when it is melted, let it 
^^»oil,«p, it will be then smooth^ thick^ and fine, 
^o flour must be used. 

Clear thm gravy. 

Cut your beef into thin slices, and broil a part 
of them over a clear fire, in such a manner as will 
suffice to colour the gravy, without doing the meat ; 
then place that and the raw meat into a stew-pan, 
with, three onions, three cloves, some allspice, 
whole pepper, sweet herbs, and cayenne 5 cover the 
whole with boiling water, let it boil, then skim it 
porfectly clear^ and let it simmer till sufficiently 
strong. 

Rich brown gravy, 

' Having rubbed some sliced beef and onions in 
flour, fry them till they acquire a fine brown co- 
lour, but be particularly attentive- to prevent them 
from getting blabk 3 then lay them in a saucepan 
well tinned, and pour boiling water into the frying- 
pan^ and let it boil up, after which pour it on the 
meat in the saucepan, add parsley, savoury, and 
thyme^ a small portion of marjoram, some tdlspice, 
mace, cloves, and pepper-corns ; simmer till suffi- 
ciently strong, and then strain it ; k bit of ham is 
a great improvement to this gravy> which may be 
v^ed by anchovy and other sauces^ agreeable to 
foncy. 

Excellent fish sauce^ 

Take four eels and skin them, then gut and clean 
them well, after which divide them into pieces, and 
lay them in h. stew-pan, add a quart of water, with 
a piece of browned bread, three blades of mace, 
some sweet herHs, four anchovies, some whole 
pepper, and a little salt, let it simmer till suffi- 
ciently rich, then thicken with flour and butter. 

H 



74 DOMESTIC COOKERY^ ANP 

i 

Sauce for wildfowl. 

Take half a pint of port wine^ an equal portion of 
good gravy ^ a small quantity of pepper^ salt« and 
shalot^ with some nutmeg and mace j let this mix- 
ture simmer for fifteen minutes^ and then add a 
little butter and flour^ after which give it one boil^ 
and pour it through your wild fowl. 

Rkh sauce for carp or turkey. 

Roll three quarters of a pound of butter with a 
table-spoonftd of fiour^ to which add a smaU quantUp 
of water^ and melt it ; to this you must add half a 
pint of thick cream^ one anchovy finely minced^ but 
not washed, place the whole over the fire, and as 
it boils add two or three table-spoonsful of soy -, 
pour it into the sauce-boat, with the addition ef salt 
and lemon. 

In making this sauce, great care is requisite to 
keep it stirring, as it will otherwise curdle. 

Sauce for cold fowl or game. 

Pound the yolfl^s of three eggs, boiled hard, two 
anchovies, one table-spoonftd of oU, four of good 
vinegar, two shalots, a small quantity of mustard. 

Quin's game and meat sauce. 

Put one ounce of butter, two onions, two es- 
chalots, and a clove of garhc sliced $ a smdl piece of 
carrot and parsnip, a bay-kaf, thyme, and two 
cloves^ into a stew-pan ; shake it oyer the fire till 
it begins to colour, then add a dust of flour, a glass 
of port, half a pint of strong gravy, and a spoonfid 
of vinegar: boil it. naif an hour; skim off the fistt, 
and strain it through a sieve, season with cayenne 
and salt 3 boil it again^ and strain it over the meat 



\m 



4 



USB#fn. RECEIPT BOOK. 75 



E*>|— M fcir. ,. n a; 



Mushroom sauce. 

Clean half a pint of young mushrooms^ take off 
the skin hj rubbing them with salt ; lay them in a 
stew-pan^ ^vith a small quantity of salt^ half a pint 
of cream^ a little mace and nutmegs thicken the 
^whole with butter and flour ^ let them boil, and^ to 
prevent them from curdling, they must be stirred 
till done. The above sauce is excellent for fowls 
and rabbits, 

OnUm sauce. 

Peel onions very dean^ and boil them till per- 
fectly tender, then drain the water off, and beat 
them up very fine, after which add a sufficiency of 
butter^ and a small portion of cream. 

Sauce for green geese. 

Take half a pint of sorrel juice^ half a pint of 
white wine^ and some scalded gooseberries^ to which 
add a sufficiency of sugar and butter : let ihe whole 
boil up. 

Bread sauce. 

Boil an o^iion with whole ^black pepper and milk, 
till it is brought to a pulp,^then strain off the milk, 
and pour it on some grated stale bread, and cover 
it carefully up. In about forty liiinutes afterwards, 
put it in a saucepan with a large piece of butter 
rolled in flour, and when sufficiently boiled^ sei-ve 
it up. 

Sauce for rump steaks. 

Take a quarter of a pound of butter, and put it 
in a saucepan over the fire to brown, throw in two 
onions minced small, and fry them brown, but be 
carefiil to prevent burning ; then add a table-spoon- 
ful of flour, and give the whole another fry ; then 



76 DOMESTIC COOKE 




put half a pint of good gravy, with some salt and 
pepper, and a little cayenne, if agreeable ; let it boil 
fifteen minutes, and skim it carefully, taking off all 
the fat, then add a desert spoonful of made mustard, 
the juice of one lemon, and two spoonsful of vine- 
gar 5 boil the whole once more for five minutes^ and 
then pour it on the steaks. 

QuviCsfish sauce. 

Put a pint of walnut pickle, half a pint of mush- 
room pickle, six anchovies pounded, six others- 
whole, a glass of white wine, three blades of mace, 
and half a tea-spoonful of cayenne^ into a stone, 
jar ; let it stand three weeks, and strain it into small 
bottles for use. 

. Quins game or meat sauce. 

Put one oimce of butter, two onions, two escha- 
lots, and a dove of garlic sliced, a small piece of 
carrot and parsnip, a bay-leaf, thyme, and two 
cloves, into a stewpan, shake it over the fire till it 
begins to colour, then add a dust of flour, a glass 
of port, half a pint of strong gravy, and strain 
through, a sieve, season with cayenne and sidt 5 
boil again, and strain over the meat. 

Sauce for fish pies. 

Take a gill of vinegar, and the same quantity of 
white wine, oyster liquor, and ketchup : boil these 
ingredients with two anchovies, and when done, 
strain them, and pour them into the pie after it is 
baked. 

Another, 

Take half a pint of cream, two anchovies minced, 
a gill of good gravy, and two tea-spoonsful of soy, 
boil the whole up with an^ ounce of butter rolled in 
flour. 





USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 77 



Currant sauce 

Boil two ounces of dried currants in a pint of 
water five minutes^ then add tlie crumb of a penny 
roU^ a dozen cloves^ a gill of port wine, and some 
butter, stirring it till it becomes perfectly smooth. 

' Apple sauce. 

Core and peel six large apples, then slice them 
thin, and put them in a jar, which place in a sauce- 
pan pf water over a gentle fire^ when done, pulp, 
them, after which add butter and brown sugar.— > 
This sauce is very excellent with goose and roast 
pork. 

Egg sauce. 

Shred hard-boiled eggs very fine, and put them 
to butter melted in a litde milk. 

Tomkta sauce. 

Take the ripest tomatas, and lay them in a jar, 
which must be placed in an Qven from which the 
bread has been drawn; let them remain till soft, 
dien separate the pulp from the skins, add chili 
vinegar, and some cloves of pounded garlick, agree- 
able to fancy, with powdered ginger and salt. This 
sauce should be preserved in small bottles, well 
corked, in a cool and dry place. ^It is exceedingly 
good with either hot or cold meats^ 

' Rich fish sauce* 

Mince twelve unwashed anchovies, and five sha- 
lots, scrape two spoonsful of horse-radish, to which 
add six blades of mace, a gill of anchovy liquor, 
five or six cloves, one sHced lemon, a pint of hock, 
and an equal quantity of water ; reduce this mix- ' 
ture by boiling to three half pints, then strain it 
off, and when cold, add three table-spoonsful of 

H 3 



ft 



78 DOMESTIC COOKERt, AND 



ketchup. It must be preserved in bottles well^ 
corked. 

Oyster sauce. 

Set over the fire the liquor of the oysters with the 
beards, with a blade of mace^ and some lemon-peel; 
when boiled, strain the liquor, and add the oysters, 
with some milk, and butter rubbed in flour. Set the 
whole over the fire again till it boils^ (observing- to 
stir it all the time) and then serve it. 

Lobster sauce. 

Beat the spawn in a mortar with three anchovies^ 
pour on three spoonsful of good gravy^ and strain 
the whole into melted butter 5 then add the meat 
of the lobster, with a little lemon juice^ and give 
the whole one boil. 

The anchovies and gravy may be omitted^ if 
inconvenient to procure them. 

Shrimp sauce 

Is made by simply picking the shrimps, and 
placing as many as agreeable into melted butter, 
with a little lemon juice. 

Anchovy sauce. 

Mince three unwashed ^anchovies, add to them 
some flour, butter, and one table-spoonful of wa- 
ter ', stir the whole over a fire till it boils. 

To melt butter. 

Mix a quarter of a },ound of butter with a large 
tea-spoonful of flour, place it in a saucepan with 
four table-spoonsful of good milk, boil it quick^ 
and shake it continually till the butter is melted. 



USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 79 



To make verjuice. 

Take a quantity of crab apples, and press out the 
jii.ice, keep it one month, and then distil in a cold 
stiU^ when it will be fit for use in a few days. 

To make vinegar. 

Boil ten pounds of coarse sugar, twelve gallons of 
^Vater, and half a pound of brown bread together for 
'one hour, then throw the bread out, and pour the 
liquor into an open vessel to cool, and on the fol- 
lowing day. add half a pint of yeast. Let it stand 
tw^elve or fourteen . days, and then put it in a cask, 
"Which must be set in the sun till sufficiently sour, 
Avhich will commonly be in about six months. The 
bunghole must have merely a bit of tile over it, to 
keep out the dust. Draw it out of the cask into 
small stone bottles for use. ^ 

Gooseberry vinegar. 

Take three gallons of water, and four quarts of 
gooseberries bruised, place the whole in a tub, in 
which it must remain three days, being stirred 
often 5 then strain it off,, and add to every gallon of 
liquor one poimd of coarse sugar -, pour the whole 
into a barrel with a toast and yeast. (The strength 
can be increased to almost any required degree by 
adding more fruit and sugar.) It must then be 
placed in the sun, and the bunghole covered as be- 
fore mentioned. 

fVin^ vinegar. 

After making raisin winp, take the strained fruit, 
and to every fifty pounds* weight put eight gallons 
of water 5 then put the yeast, &c. as in the preceding 
instances. 



I N 



80 DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AND 



False capers. 

Take ftome nasturtiums^ keep them five or six 
days after they are gathered^ then pour boiling 
vinegar upon them^ sind when cold^ cover them 
closely. 

Mustard. 

The patent mustard should always be purchased, 
being on the long run more economical than the 
common method of. making your own mustard^ and 
certainly better. 

To make patent mustard. 

Take three onions, two doves of garlic, two 
ounces of grated horse-radish, and a spoonM of 
salt ', boil these in a pint of water for half an hour : 
strain, and when rather more than milk- warm, mix 
it gradually with half a pound of best flour of mus- 
tard ; when done, keep it close stopped for use. 

Spices, 

Spice should be very finely powdered, ' and each 
kind kept closely stopped in a separate bottle. 
Spice thus prepared will go much further than when 
used in the common manner 3 besides which, it wiU 
add to the flavour. Previously to pounding, the 
spice should be well dried, and then done in suffi- 
cient quantities to last six months. 

The bottles should be labelled, and put in a dry 
place. 

Essence of anchovies. 

Take fifty or sixty anchovies, mix them with- 
out the bone, but with some of their own liquor 
weU strained 3 add to them a pint of water, in 
which let them boil till dissolved, which generally 




USEFUL RECEIP.T BOOK. 81 

happens in five minutes. When cold, strain and 
bottle it, taking oare to close it well. 

N.B. Should your stock of anchovies become 
dry, the defidiency may be well supplied by pouring 
upon them beef brine. 

To dry mttshrooms. 

Clean them well by wiping them, take out the 
brown, and carefully peel off the skin, dry them 
on sheets of paper in a cool oven, and afterwards 
preserve them in paper bags hung in a dry place. 
When used, let them simmer in gravy, and they will 
nearly regain their original size. 

Mushroom powder. 

Dry the mushrooms whole, set thera before the 
fire to crisp ; grind, and sift the powder through a 
fine sieve, preserving it in glass bottles, closely 
corked. 

Force-meat balls for ragouts, 8sc, 

Pound some lean veal and beef suet, with sweet 
herbs, parsley, some shalots, bread crumbs, pepper, 
salt, and a little grated nutmeg, in a marble mortar. 
Make this up into balls with raw yolk of egg, and 
boil or fry them lightly before they are added to any 
preparation. 

Force-meat for turkeys, fowls, pies, 8sc, 

Take lean veal, ham, parsley, thyme, some sha- 
lots, a little pounded allspice and pepper, a few 
nice mushrooms, or s little mushroom powder, 
some salt, and lemon juice, and do them over a 
very slow fire, shaking the saucepan frequently, till 
about two-thirds done. Pound them very fine in a 
marble mortar, and add bread crumbs and raw yolk 



82 DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AND 

» 

of egg to make them up into balls^ or fit for staf- 
fing. 

Eg% baUs. 

Pound the yolks of as many hard eggs as will be 
wanting^ in a marble mortar^ with a little flour and 
salt, add as much raw yolk of egg as will make this 
up into balls, and boil them before they are put into 
soups> or any other preparation. 

# 

Elegant force meat for atetoedfish, or fish soups. 

Take a lobster, beat the flesh and soft parts to a 
pulp with an anchovy, some yolk of a hard e^, 
and a stick of boiled celery, to which add some 
bread crumbs, cayenne, mace, salt, two eggs well 
beaten, a litde ketchup, three ounces of butter 
warmed, and one table-spoonful of oyster-'liquor : 
form the whole into balls, and fry them in butter 
till they acquire a fine brown colour. 

To make Utile eggs for turtle. 

Pound hard yolks of eggs, and make a paste with 
the yolk of a raw one, then roll them into small 
ball8> and put them in ooiUng water for three mi- 
nutes. 

' Curry powder. 

Take mustard seed, one ounce and a half 5 cori- 
ander seed, four ounces 5 turmeric, four ounces and 
a hajf ; black pepper, three ounces 5 lesser carda- 
moms, one ounce 5 ginger, half an ounce 3 cinna- 
ipon, one ounce ; cloves, half an ounce -, and mace, 
half an ounce 5 all these ingredients must be first 
made into a fine powder, then mixed well together, 
and kept in a widc-mduthed bottle, closely stopped, 
for use. 



USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 83 

I 

Walnut ketchup. 

While the young walnuts. are tender^ press out 
two gallons of the juice^ let it simmer^ and skim it 
well^ then add four ounces of anchovies^ bones^ and 
liquor^ the same quantity of shalots^ three ounces 
of cloves and ginger^ with two ounces of mace and 
pepper each^ and three cloves of garlick -, let the 
whole simmer till the shalots sink^ then pour it into 
a pan^ let it remain till cool^ dfter which bottle it, 
and divide the spices ; cork very tight, and tie down 
with a bladder. 

This shoidd never be used under one year, and 
will keep for twenty. 

Muuhroom ketchup. 

Take two gallon^ of mushrooms (the larger the 
better) mesh them into an earthen pot, and stew 
the whole with salt 5 stir them frequently for two 
days, then let them stand for nine. Strsdn and 
boil the liquor with the addition of mace, ginger, 
cloves, mustard seed, and whole pepper, with a 
little c^Uspice. 

When perfectly cold, pour it into bottles, and cork 
them closely ; in three months boil it again, and it 
will then keep a long time, 



DIRECTIONS 

FOB THE 

PREPARATION OF VEGETABLES. 



The principal art in boilitig greens, is to pre- 
serve their beautiful green appearance and sweet- 
ness, to do which they must be carefully picked. 



•\. «k. •'•"t 



84 DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AND 



, washed, and freed from insects^ and they should be 
as fresh as possible^ it being impossible to bring 
such as are stale to a good colouTr 

la boiling them^ you should use a considerable 
quantity of water, and a tin, brass, or copper pan, in 
which they should be dressed by themselves, meat, 
or an iron pot, spoiling the colour. 

Vegetable should be drained the moment they 
are enough, and attention should be paid that they 
be not over-boiled, in which case they lose their 
crJspness. — ^The preceding remarks hold good in re- 
spect to all kinds of vegetables, except carrots, 
which should be boiled with beef. 

if your water is hard in which you desire to boil 
vegetables green, put in a small spoonful of salt i( 
wormwood, previous to laying in your vegetables. 

To dress cauliflowers. 

Separate the green part, and cut the flower close 
at the bottom from the stalk. Ijet it soak an hour 
in clear cold water, and then lay it in boiling milk 
and water, (or water alone,) observing to skim it 
well; when the flower or stalks feel tender it is 
enough, and should be instantly taken up. Drain 
it for a minute, and serve it up in a dish by itself 
with plain melted butter in a sauce- tureen. 

To dress brocoli. 

The small clusters round the main head must be 
taken off with a penknife, the outside skin on the 
stalks must be then care^iUy peeled off, then wash 
them dean, and lay them in boiling water, with a 
sufficiency of salt -, let them boil till the stalks are 
tender, and then serve as cauliflower. 

To dress cabbage and sprouts. 
If your cabbage is large, cut it in two, or four^ 




USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 85 

parts> lay it in boiling water^ (of which there should 
be plenty); when the stalks are tender^ or sink to 
the bottom, they are enough. Salt shoiUd be thrown 
into the water before you lay in your greens. — 
Coleworts, savoys, and brown-cole^ must be boiled 
in the same manner. 

Asparagus, 

Great attention is necessary to boil asparagus - 
it must be carefully washed and cleaned, the horny 
part must be cut away^ leaving only enough to take 
it up with the fingers. After the white horn^part 
has been well scraped, cut them all off at one length , 
and tie them up in separate bundles -, lay them in 
boiling water with a little salt. Boil them briskly, 
and they are enough when tender. — ^Dip a round of 
toasted bread in the liquor, and lay it in the dish, 
then pour some melted butter over the toast, and 
lay the asparagus on the toast Entirely round the 
dish. Serve with melted butter in a sauce tureen. 

jiriichokes. 

Wring the stalks off, and lay the artichokes in* 
the water cold, with tiie bottoms up 5 by which 
means, the dirt concealed between the leaves will 
boU out. After the water boils, they will take 
nearly two hours to be done. Serve with melted 
butter, salt, and pepper. 

To fry them, blanch them first in water, then 
flour them and fry them in fresh buttery when 
enough, lay them in a dish, and pour melted butter 
over them. 

Tofricasee artichoke bottoms. 

If dried, lay them in warm Water four hours, ob- 
serving*]; to change the water as many times, then 



/ 



86 PpMESTiC COOKERY, AND 



take half a pint of cream and an ounce of butter, 
which stir over the fire till melted : after which lay 
in the artichokes till hot, then serve them up. 

French beans. 

Lay them in wafer and salt, after having stringed 
them, €uid cut them in two 3 when your pan of wa- 
ter boils, throw in a little salt, and then your beans. 
When tender, they are enough : lay them in a small 
dish, and serve them with a tureen of melted Ihitter. 

N^ B. If the beans are large, you must slit them 
down the middle, and then cut them in two. 

Parsn^ 

Should be boiled in a oonsiderable quantity of 
water -, when they are soft, take them up, and care- 
fully scrape off the dirt and spots, after which 
scrape them all fine ; then lay them in a saucepan 
with milk, and let them simmer till thick $ then add . 
a piece of butter and salt, after which serve them 
up. 

Or, when boiled and scraped, they may be served 
up in a dish whole^ with melted butter in a sauce 
tureen. • 

Parsnips are very fine with salt fish. 

To stew them, they must be boiled tender, 
scraped, and cut into slices, then lay them in a j 
saucepan with cream, butter rolled in flour, and 
salt, observing frequently to shake the saucepan, 
when the cream boils, pour them into a large dish, 
and serve them up. 

To boil turnips. 

Boil turnips, if possible, with the meat, as they 
eat best when so done. Wlien they are enough, 
take them out, put them into a pan, mesh them 
with butter and a little salt, and send them to 




f 



USBFT7L RECEIPT B06k. 87 



tikble. Another method of boiling them is to pare 
the turnips^ and cut them into little square pieces 
of the size of dice : put them into a saucepan, and 
just cover them widi water. As soon as they are 
•nought throw them into a sieve to drain; then 
into a saucepan, with a good piece of butter ; stir 
them over the fire for a few minutes, and serve 
them up. 

Carrots. 

Clean them well by washing and scraping, and 
when enough, rub them in a dean doth. If they 
are young, half an hour will do them 5 but if laige, 
an hoiur. — Carrots are very excellent with corned 



To boU potatoes. 

PotlLtoes should never be pared. Place them on 
the fire in cold water, and when about half done, 
throw in some salt and a small quantity ot cold 
water. When nearly enough, drain off the water, 
then lay a dean doth over them, and covering the 
pot, set them by the fire to steam. New potatoes 
must be taken off in good time, or they will eat 
watery. 

To scollop potatoes. 

After boiling the potatoes, beat them fine in a 
marble mortar with some milk, a large piece of 
butter, and a little salt -, then put them into scol- 
lop shells, make them smooth on the top, score 
them with a knife^ lay thin slices of butter on the 
top of them, and then put them into a Dutch oven 
to brown before the fire. 

To mesh potatoes. 
Boil, peel, and lay them in a saucepan, then mirah 



V ; 



86 DOMB9TIC COOKERY, AND 



\ 

them with a strong spoon 5 add a pint of cream, or 
milk, with a sufficiency of salt -, stir them well to- 
gether, to prevent them from sticking to the bottom 
of the saucepan, and when perfectly hot, stir in four 
ounces of butter, and when melted^ serve it up. 

Garden, or Windsor beans. 

Boil them by themselves with a little salt, pars- 
ley, and mint -, when tender, they are enough 3 then 
drain them, and serve with parsley and melted but- 
ter. — Beans are excelle.it with bacon or ham. 

To boil green peas, 

Sbell, but do not wash them, boil them in plenty 
of water, and skim well as soon as they boil. Put - 
in some salt and mint tops, and be particularly care- 
ful not to overboil them, as they will then lose their 
colour and taste. When enough, serve them in a 
dish by themselves^ and melt in a good piece of 
43utter among them. 

To keep green peas. 

Scald yourr peas, then strain' and dry them be- 
tween clean cloths, after which put them in wide- 
mouthed bottles, and pour clarified suet over them, 
then close the bottle well, and rosin the cork down^ 
after which bury them under ground. When used, 
boil them till tender, with a bit of butter^ some 
mint, and a small portion of sugar. 

Jerusalem artichokes 

Must be taken up the moment they are enough, 
otherwise they will prove watery. Serve with but- 
ter and pepper. 

Roast onions 

With the skins onj when enough, peel them, and 
serve with cold butter^ salt, and potatoes roasted. 



trSEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 89 



To stew cucumbers. 

Slice some onions^ and cut the cucumbers lai^e^ 
then flour and fry them in good fresh butter -, after 
which pour on some gravy^ and stew them till 
enough. 

To stew onions. 

Peel twelve onions^ and having floured^ fry them 
of a light brown> lay them in a stewpan with some 
gravy, two spoonsfril of ketchiip, pepper, salt, and 
if agreeable, a little cayenne. Place the whole over 
a gentle fire, and let them stew an hour and a h^lf . 

To stew celery. 

Wash four large heads, take off the outer leaves, 
<Mvjde each head into halves, then cut them into 
pieces, each about three inches long, lay them in a 
stewpan with weak gravy, and let them simmer till 
perfectly tender; then add a small portion of cream, 
and season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace 5 
warm the whole^ after which serve it up. 

Spinach 

Must be carefully picked and washed, then lay it 
in d saucepan of a size (if convenient) barely to hold 
it, strew a little salt over the top, and cover it close. 
It must be frequently shaken ; when done, beat it 
iwell with a bit of butter, then squeeze it quite dry 
between two plates, or into a mould, and serve it up 
with plain melted butter in a boat. 

To stew red cabbage. 

Slice the cabbage, and place it over a gentle fire, 
with gravy, onion, pepper, and salt, a little vine- 
gar, one tea-spoonful of ketchup, and when done, 
add a bit of butter rolled in flour. 

i3 



90 DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AND 



To stew mushrooms. 

Great attention is requisite in the use of mush- 
rooms^ as many sorts of them are sufficiently poi- 
sonous to cause death. For stewing^ the large but- 
tons are preferable, clean them by rubbing them 
with salt and a bit of rag -, lay them in a stewpan^ 
with some pepper-corns, and sprinkle them with 
salt. Let the whole gently simmer till enoughj 
then add butter rolled in flour, and serve with sip- 
pets of bread. Cayenne, and a gill of good creamj 
is a considerable improvement. 

Lobster salad. 

Prepare a salad in the usual manner^ then chop 
the red part of a lobster and mix with it^ the co- 
lour of which presents a striking .contrast to the 
vegetables. 

To niesh parsnips. 

Boil them sufficiently tender, when, having scraped 
them, mesh them into a saucepan, add butter, pep- 
per, and salt. Cream, if it can be procured, is a 
great improvement. 

To dress chardoons. 

Tie them into bundles, and dress and serve them 
as asparagus. Or boil them in salt and water tiU 
tender, then dry them, dip them in butter, and fry 
them. Serve with plain melted butter. 

Beet roots 

Are extremely wholesome, and contribute to form 
a very pretty salad in winter. It is very good, ii 
boiled till tender, then sliced moderately thin, with 
a small portion of onion, and laid in a stewpan 
with some gravy, a gill of white ^ine, and a spoon- 



USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 91 

■ m 
fill of vioegar ; then let it simmer till the gravy be- 
comes just tinged with its colour, and serte in a 
small dish. If very small onions are used, they 
should not be cut^ which greatly adds to the neat 
appearance of this dish. 

Sea cale 

Must be dressed and served up in the same man- 
ner as asparagus. 

To keep vegetables through the winter. 

Beet roots should be placed between layers of 
dry sand^ with the earth about them. 

Parsnips — ^the same. 

Carrots — ^the same. 

Parsley — should be dried in a cool oven, by 
which means it preserves its colour. 

Onions— shoiiid be preserved by hanging them 
in a dry cold room. 

Potatoes — are to be carefully kept from the frost, 
which immediately renders them untit for use. 

Truffles and mprels-^-should be dried, and kept 
in paper bags in a dry place. 

Artichoke bottoms — ^the same. 

Herbs of every kind— dried, and kept in bags in 
a dry room. 



92 DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AND 

it 



><♦ 



PICKLES 



INSTRUCTIONS. 

Pickles should never be taken out of their jars, 
except with a wood or bone spoon. The stone 
jars should be opened as seldom as possible, 
except when to fill the small ones in present use, 
and great attention is requisite to see that they are 
all tied very closely down. Pickles should be done 
in stew-pans, and always kept in stone jars, any 
other kind being pernicious, as the acid eats into, 
and draws the unwholesome particles out of all 
vessels, except stone or glass. It is too common 
a practice to make use of brass utensils, in order 
to give the pickles a fine green -, but the same pur- 
pose can be effected by heating the liquor, and 
keeping it in a proper degree of warmth on the 
hearth or the chimney comer. By this method, you 
will avoid the pernicious consequence of the use of 
brass utensils, or of verdigris of any kind, which 
are in their nature a very powerful poison, and 
may be productive of serious injury to those who 
partake of them. Very great care is necessary to 
make them well. 

To pickle smelts. 

Gut and dean them, then lay them in a pan in 
rows, then add ginger, nutmeg, mace, sliced lemon, 
powdered bay leav^es, and salt. Let the pickle be 
r&l^ine, vinegar, cochineal, and saltpetre. 






F 

M 



UBBFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 93 

.... To pickle salmon. 

Clean tK fidh carefully^ boil it gently till done^ 
and then take it up : strain the liquor, adding bay- 
leaves^ pepper corns, and salt j give it a boil, and 
when cold, add vinegar to th^ palate, and pour 
over the fish. 

Anchoioks, 

Artificial anchovies are made in this manner : To 
a peck of sprats, take two pounds of common salt, 
a quarter of a pound of bay-salt, four of salt-petre, 
two ounces of prunella salt, and a small quantity of 
cochineal. Pound all in a mortar, put them into 
a stoiie pan, a row of sprats, then a layer of the 
compound, and so on alternately to the top. Press 
them hard down, cover them close, let them stand 
for six months, and they will be fit for use. Take 
particular care that the sprats are very fresh, and 
do not wash or wipe them, but take them just as 
they eome out of the water. 

Oysters, cockles, and muscles. 

Take one hundred of the newest and best oys- 
ters, and be careful to save the liquor in a pah as 
they are opened. Cut off the black verge, saving 
the rest, and put them into their own liquor ; then 
put all the liquor and oysters into a kettle, stew 
them about half an hour on a gentle fire, and do 
them very slowly,^ skimming them as the scum 
rises 3 then take them off, take out the oysters, 
and strain the liquor through a fine doth : put in 
the oysters again, take out a pint of the liquor 
when hot, and add to it a quarter of an ounce of 
mace, and the same of cloves : just give it one 
boil, put it to the oysters, and stir up the spices 
well among tham3'then put in a tea-spoonfUl of 



jf^^^ 



96 DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AND 

£UgOT, then take the worst of the barberrieQ^ and put 
them into this liquor^ and the best into glasses -, 
then boil the pickle^ careftilly taking off the scum ; 
boil it till it assumes a fine colour^ let it remain till 
cold^ and then strain it hard through a coarse . cloth. 
Let it settle^ then pour it clear into the glasses^ 
and tie it down with bladder. To every pound of 
sugar thus used^ half a pound of white bait must 
be added. 

To pickle samphire. 

Lay your samphire when pickled in a pan^ throw 
some salt over it^ and cover it with spring water. 
Let it remain twenty-four hours; then strain off 
the liquor^ and place the samphire in a brass sauce- 
pan> add some salt/ and cover the whole with good 
vinegar; cover the saucepan perfectly close^ and 
place it on a gentle ^re, Where let it remain only 
till crisp and green^ which requires great attention. 
Then put it in your jar> and cover it close till coldy 
when it must be tied down with bladder and leather. 

Radish pods. 

Put the radish pods^ which must be gathered 
when they are quite youngs into salt and water all 
night : boil the salt and water they were laid in^ 
pour it upon the pods^ and cover the jar close to 
keep in the steam. When it is nearly cold^ make 
it boiling hot^ and pour it on again^ and keep doing 
so till the pods are quite green. Then put them 
into a sieve to drain^ and make a pickle for them of 
white-wine \'inegar, with a little mace, ginger, 
long pepper, and horse-radish. Pour it boiling hot 
upon the pods, and when it is almost cold, make 
the vine^r twice as hot as before, and pour it upon 
them. Tie them down with bladder^ and put thcu^ 
by for use. ^ 



OSEFUL RECRIPT BOOK. 9f 



Lemon pickle. 

Take twelve lemons^ and cut each into six pieces^, 
put on them two pounds of salt^ eight or nine 
cloves of garlick, with ihace^ nutmeg, cayenne, and 
allspice, half an ounce of each, and a quarter of a 
pound of flour of mustard ; to these ingredients, add 
one gallon of good vinegar j boil the whole for half 
an hour, then put it in a jar, and set it by for eight 
iveeks, observing to stir it well every day. After 
wrhich, pour it into small bottles, and close them 
"very well. 

Indian pickle. 

Divide the heads of some cauliflowers into pieces, 
^d add some slices of the. inside of the stalk, put 
to them two white cabbages, cut into pieces, with 
inside slices of carrots, onions, and turnips. Boil 
a strong brine, simmer the picldes in it two minutes, 
drain them, let them dry over an oven till they are 
shrivelled up, then put them into a jar, and prepare 
the following pickle : — To foiu* quarts of vinegar, 
add two ounces of floiu' of mustard, two ounces of 
long pepper, two ounces of ginger, four ounces, of 
horse radish, and a few shalots. Boil the whole, 
and pom* it on tlie pickles while hot^ when per- 
fectly cold, tie them down^ and if necessary, add 
more vinegar afterwards ; and in a mont^ :^ 
will be excellent. y^vy 



^ ■% 




Cucumber mangoes. 

Take large cucumbers, cut a small hole in Ihe 
sides, and extract the seeds^ which must be mixed 
with mustard seeds and minced garlic; then stuff 
the cucumbers full with them, and replace the 
pieces cut from the sides j bind it up with a bit of 
ne^ packthread 5 then boil a suflicient quantity 



M 



96 DOMESTIC COOKKBT; AXD 



of vinegar with pepper, salt,, ginger, and mace^ 
Aid pour it boiling hot over the mangoes four suc- 
cessive days. On the last, add some scraped horse- 
radish and flour of mustard to the vinegar, and stop 
the whole close. The vinegar may be poured on 
more than four times. 

To pickle gherkins. 

Take two or three hundred, lay them on a dish, 
salt them, and let them remain eight or nine days, 
then drain them, and laying them in a jar, pour 
Y)oiling vinegar upon them. Place them near the 
fire, covered with vine leaves. If they do not be- 
come sufficiently green, strain off the vinegar, boil 
it, and again pour it over them, covering with fresh 
leaves. Continue to do so, till they be<::ome as green 
as you wish. 

Cucumbers in slides. 

Slice some large cucumbers before they are too 
ripe, and put them into an earthen pan. To every 
dozen of cucumbers, slice two lai^ onions, put- 
ing a handful of salt between every row: cover 
them with a dish, and let them stand twenty-four 
hours : put them into a cuHcMer, and let them 
dry well; put them into a jar, cover them over 
with white-wine vinegar, and let them stand four 
hours : pour the vinegar from them into a saucepan, 
and boil it with a little salt, mace, whole pepper, 
a lai^e race of ginger sliced, and then pour on 
them the boiling vinegar. Cover them dose, and 
when they are cold, tie them down, and they will be 
fit for use, 

• 

To pickle mushrooms. 
Take button mushrooms, rub them dean ^th 




nSfiPVL RECEIPT BOOK. ^ 



flannel and salt^ throw some salt over them^ and 
lay them in a ctew-pan with mace and pepper; 
while the liquor comes out^ shake them well^ and 
continue to do so till the whole is dried into them 
again ; then pour in as much vin^;ar as will cover 
them^ give the whole one warm^ and turn them into 
a jar. Prepared in this manner^ mushrooms will 
keep two years^ and are very excellent. 

Or, 

Clean some button mushrooms with a piece of 
flannel dipped in salt and water ; boil them in salt 
and water a few moments, till the liquor is drawn 
out ; lay them in a clol^ to cool, put them in jars, 
and fill them up with cold vinegar that has been 
boiled with mace, ginger, and salt^ then add one 
spoonful of sweet oil to each bottle, and cork 
them down. 

To pickle misturtiutns. 

Pick them when ypung on a warm day^ and put 
them in a jar of old vinegar, which has been taken 
from green pickles, or onions, and boiled afresh 3 
or boil some fresh vinegar with salt and spice, and 
when cold, put in the nasturtiums. 

To pickle French beans. 

Pick your beans clean, strew some salt over 
them; when it begins to dissolve, stir them fre- 
quently, and the following day drain them, lay 
them in jars, and cover them with boiling vinegar 5 
let the jars stand, four days some distance from the 
fire, then put the vinegar and pickles into a stew- 
pan, set it on the fire, covered with vine- leaves, 
and when the leaves turn yellow, put in fresh ones, 
till the leaves become of a fine green colour 3 ob- 



lOQ DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AND 



serve, they must only simmer, boiling would spoil 
them 5 add sliced ginger, pepper-corns, &c. Gher- 
kins and radish pods are done in the same manner. 

To pickle red cabbage. 

Slice them into a sieve, and sprinkle each layer 
with salt, let the whole drain three days, then add 
some sliced beet-root, and place the whole in :ajar, 
over which pour boiling vinegar. The purple red 
cabbage is the finest. Mace, bruised ginger, whole 
|iepper, and cloves, may be boiled with the vinegar, 
and will make a great improvement. 



ROASTING, BOILING, AND SALTING 

MEAT, &c. 



INSTRUCTIONS. 



For roasting, your fire should be regulated ac- 
cording to the thing to be dressed 3 if very little or 
thin, then you should have a pretty brisk fire, that 
it may be done qqickly and nicely j if a large joint, 
take care that a large fire is laid on to cake, and 
kept constantly free from ashes at the bottom, and 
you must observe that the fire should never be 
-stirred more than once during tlie time of roasting, 
on which occasion the meat and spit should be re- 
moved to a greater distance. All meat should be 
carefully washed before dressed 3 but meat intended 



USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 101 



to roast^ should be well dried before placed on the 
spit. If you are roasting beef» take care to paper 
the &t when it gets wann^ and baste well while at 
the fire^ not forgetting to sprinkle some salt on it. 
When Ihe smoke draws to the fire^ it is a sign that 
it is nearly enough 3 and then take off the paper^ 
baste and dredge with flour, to make it frothy. In 
roasting mutton or lamb, the loin, the chine, and 
the saddle^ must have the skin raised and skewered 
oh^ and when nearly done, take off the skin, and 
baste and flour, to froth it up. All other sorts of 
mutton and lamb must be roasted with a quick 
clear Are, without the skin being raised. You 
must be careful to roast veal of a fine brown ; and 
if it be a fillet or loin, be sure to paper the fat, 
baste it well at first, and when nearly done^ baste 
again, and dredge with a little floQr. The breast 
must be roasted with the caul on, till the meat be 
enough done, and skewer the sweetbread on the. 
back side of the breast. Pork should be well done, 
or will otherwise make persons ill. When you 
roast a loin, cut the skin across with a slmrp knife, 
in order to make the crackling eat the better. When 
you roast a leg of pork score it in the same manner 
as the loin, and stuff the knuckle part with sage and 
onion chopped very fine, and skewer it up. The 
spring, or hand of pork, eats best boiled. The 
sparerib should be basted with a little butter, a very 
little dust of flour^ and some sage and onions shred 
small. ** , 

For boiling, the greatest attention is requisite in 
the cook to have every utensil perfectly clean, and 
the pots and saucepans properly tinned. In boil- 
ing any kind of meat, but particularly veal, much 
care is required. Fill your pot with a sufficient 
quantity of soft water 5 dust yoiu^ veal well with 

K 3 



]02 DOMESTIC COOKERY, AND 

line flour, put it into your pot, and set it over a 
larg^ fire; some people put in milk to make it 
white ; but this is of no use, and better omitted , 
for, if you use hard water, it will curdle the milk, 
give to the veal a yellow cast, and will often hang 
in lumps about it. Oatmeal will do the same thing ; 
but by dusting your veal, and putting it into water 
when cold, it will prevent the foulness of the water 
hanging upon it. T^e the scum off clear as soon 
as it begins to rise, and cover up the pot closely. 
Let the meat boil as slowly as possible, put in 
plenty of water, which will make your veal rise and 
look plump. A cook cannot make a greater mis- 
take, than to let any sort of meat, boil &st, sincj^ it 
hardens the outside before it is warm within, and 
contributes to discolour it. Thus a leg of veal, of 
twelve-pounds weight, will take three hours and a 
half boiling -, and the slower it boils, the whiter and 
plumper it will be. When mutton or beef is the ob- 
ject of your cookery, be careful to dredge them well 
with flour, betbre you put them into the pot of cold 
water j boil them very slowly, and keep it covered -, 
but do not forget to take off the scuni as often as it 
rises. Mutton and beef do not require so ^luch 
boiling 3 nor is it much minded^ if it be a little un- 
der-done ; but lamb, pork, and veal, should be well 
boiled, as they otherwise will be unwholesome. A 
leg of pork will take half an hour more boiling than 
a leg of veal of the same weight ; but, in general, 
when yo^boil beef or mutton, you may allow an 
hour for every four pounds weight. To put in the 
meat when the water is cold, is allowed to be 
the best method, as it thereby gets warm to the 
heart before the outside gets hard. A leg of lamb, 
of four pounds weight, will take an hour and a 
half. 



USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 103 

You should never boil vegetables^ with meat^ ex- 
cepting carrots or parsnips. 

A dry tongue should soak one day^ and it will 
then require four hours slow boiling, and a green 
one three hours. In short the principal art in 
boiling any kind of meat, or poultry, is to boil 
very slowly in clean saucepans, and keep them well 
skimmed ; for if the utensils are dirty, it will disco- 
lour whatever is boiled in them, ; and if any thing 
is boiled fast, it will be hard, dry, and ill fla- 
voured 3 while slow boilings clean saucepans, and 
clean water, kept well scummed, wiU render all 
kinds of meat and poultry, white, plump, juicy, ~ 
and wholesome. 

In respect to the time required for roasting or 
boiling a joints you must be directed by your own 
judgment, the size of the joint, and the strength 
of the fire. It is a common rule, however, to 
weigh the meat, and to allow about seventeen mi- 
nuter for every pound. Meat when roasted, should 
not be placed too near the fire at first, which 
would occasion it to ifcorch^ but should be gradu- 
ally placed nearer, l^ept constantly basted, and, 
when nearly done, dredged with flour, which will 
make it look frothy and nice. When put to roast, 
meat should be^ for a short time^ basted with ^salt 
and water 

Meat, whether for salting or immediate dressing, 
eats much better if suffered to hang a few days. 

Never purchase any meat that is br#Bed^ - as it 
will invariably taint in a short time : and observe, «» 
that the best joints, though generally dearer than 
the others, will ultimately prove the cheapest, be- 
cause they go the farthest. 

A great part of the suet may be taken from sir- 
loins of beef, loins of mutton or veal, and darificd 
for fiiture use. Dripping is equally . good with ' 



104 DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AND 



butter for basting all kinds of meat^ but not poultry. 
' It will also serve very ivell for common pies^ and 
should therefore be carefully preserved. 

Meat, during the summer months, should be well 
examined to discover the Hy-blows, which should 
be carefully cut o£f, and the part then washed. 



PRELIMINARY HINTS FOR BROILING AND FRYING. 

Before you lay your meat op the gridiron, be 
carefiil that your fire be very clear: the kind of 
ciud^ termed coke makes the best tire for broiling. 
Let your gridiron be very clean, and when heated 
by the fire, rub the bars with clean mutton suet : 
this will both prevent the meat from being disco- 
loured, and hinder it from sticking. Turn your 
meat quickly while broiling, and have a dish, placed 
on a chafing dish of hot coals^- to put your meat in 
as fast as it is ready, and carry it hot and covered to 
table. Observe never to baste any thing on the 
gridiron, because that may be the means of burning 
it, and making it smoky. 

Be carefid always to keep your frying-pan clean, 
and see that it is properly tinned. When you fry 
any sort of fish, first dry them in a cloth, and then 
flour them. Put 'into your frying-pan plenty of 
dripping or hog's lard, and let it, be boiling hot 
before you put in your fish. Butter is no^ so good 
for the purpose, as it is apt to bum and blacken 
the fish, an make them soft. When you have 
fried your fish, lay thein in a dish or hair sieve to 
drain, before you send them up to table. 

Roast ribs of beef. 

Spit, and lay it before a brisk fire, baste with 
salt and water twenty minutes 5 then dry and iioiu: 



USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 105 



it, and fasten some clean buttered paper over the 
side of the meat, and let it remain there tUl the 
meat is enough. 

Roast mutton and lamb 

* Lay your meat before a ekar quick fire, baste it 
continually, and when nearly done, dredge with 
flour. A breast should have the skin taken off be- 
fore you lay it down. 

Roast veaL 

Be careful to roast veal a fine brown -, at first 
keep it some distance from the fire ^ baste a shoul- 
der well till near done, after which iiour and baste 
it with a litde butter. It may be stuffed or not as 
agreeable. A loin should be covered with clean 
papery and if a breast, with the caul, with the 
sweetbread fastened on the backside with a skewer. 
When nearly don^, take off the caul, baste it, and 
dredge it with flour. A fillet must be stuffed with 
the following ingredients i thyme, marjoram, pars- 
ley, savoury, finely minced lemon-peel, mace, pep- 
per, nutmeg, with bread crumbs, to which add 
two eggs, and four ounces of marrow suet -, lay thiiS 
stttffing in the udder, and if any remain, in such 
holes as you think proper, made in the fleshy part. 
Serve with melted butter, and garnish with the 
lemon-peel sliced. 

Roast pork. 

Lay it at some distance from the fire, and flour it 
well. When the flour dries, wipe the pork clean 
with a coarse cloth, then. cut the skin in rows with 
a sharp knife, put your meat closer to the fire, and 
roast it as quick as possible. Baste with butter 
and a little dry sage. Some jjersons add onions 
finely shred. 



106 DOMESTIC COOKEKY, AND 

To roast a tongue or udder. 

Parboil, and then stick it with cloves, and baste 
it with butter 5 when enough, take it up, and serve 
it with gravy and sweet sauce. 

To roast venison. 

Wash it in vinegar and water^ then dry it well, 
and cover it either with the caul or buttered paper. 
Baste with butter tiQ nearly enough 3 then boil a 
pint of claret with mace, nutmeg, pepper and 
cloves. Pour this over yoiur venison three times ^ 
then take it up, strain the liquor, pour it over the 
venison again, and serve with sweet sauce. 

Venison should never be overdone; a haunch 
will require about three hours and a half to roast. 

Hashed venison. 

Slice it and warm it with its own gravy, then put 
a few slices of mutton £it, which must be placed 
on the fire with a little port wine and sugar 5 let it 
simmer till dry^ and then put.it to the hash. 

To fry venison. 

Bone your venison, if it be either the neck^or 
breast; but if it be the shoulder, the meat must 
be cut off the bone in slices. Make some gravy 
with the bones ; then take the meat and fry it of 
a light brown ; take it up, keep it hot before the 
fire. Put some Hour to the butter in the pan, and 
keep stirring it till it be quite thick and brown. 
Take care it does not bum. Stir in half a pound of. 
fine sugar beat to powder, put in ihe gravy that 
came from the bones, and some red wine. Make it 
the thickness of a fine a^am 3 squeeze in the juice 
of a lemon, warm the venison in it, put in the dish,' 
and pour the sauce over it 



USKFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 107 



To salt beef. 

The kernels of all meat should be carefully ex- 
tracted. Particular attention is requisite in salting 
meat. It should be well sprinkled^ and six houis 
aftewards hung up to drain 3 after which, rub it 
%7in^with salt, and lay it in a salting tub with a 
" itSover td fit close 5 remember to turn it every day. 
The brine will serve very well again by being boiled 
and scummed, as long as any scum will arise. 

To salt pork. 

To pickle pork, you miist bone it, and cut it 
into pieces of a size suitable to lie in the pan into 
which it is intended to be put Rub the pieces well 
with saltpetre -, thi^n take two pints of common salt, 
and two of bay salt, and rub the pieces well with 
them. Put a hiyer of common salt at the bottom of 
tlve vessel, cover every piece over with common 
salt, lay them upon one another as close as possible, 
filling the hollow places on the sides with salt. As 
the salt melts on the top, strew on more, lay a 
coarse cloth over the vessel, a board over that, and 
a weight on the board to keep it down. Keep it 
cloke covered $ and it will keep the whole year. 

To cure hams. 

Rub well into each ham one ounce of saltpetre, 
half 2Ln ounce of sal-prunella pounded, and a 
pound of common salt. Lay them in salt-pans for 
ten day«, turn them once in the time, and rub them 
well with more common salt. Let them lie ten 
days longer, and turn them every day. Then take 
them out, scrape them clean; and dry them well 
with a cloth. Then rub them slightly over with a 



108 DOMESTIC GOOKEKY, AND 



little salt^ and hang them up to dry^ but not in too 
hot a place. 

Hams the Yorkshire way. 

First beat them well^ and then mix half a pecl% 
of salt^ three ounces of saltpetre^ half an ounce of 
sal-prunella^ and five pounds of coarse salt. Hub 
the hams well with this^ and lay the remainder on 
the top. Let them lie three days^ and then hang 
them up. Put as much water to the pickle as will 
cover the hams^ adding salt till it will bear an egg, 
and then boil and strain it. Next morning put in 
the hams^ and press them down so that they may be 
covered. Let them lie a fortnight, rub them well 
with bran, and dry them. The above ingredients 
i\re sufficient for three middling sized hams. 

To pickle hams like Westphalia hams. 

To two large,, or three small hams, take three 
pounds of common salt, and two pounds of coarse 
sugar, mix it, and rub it well into the hams ; let 
them remain seven days> turning them regularly, 
and rubbing the salt in : then take four ounces of 
powdered nitre, and mix it with half a pound of 
common saU> and rub that well into your hams. 
Let them remain in pickle fourteen days longer, 
then smoke themi The pickle wiU afterwards do 
for tongues, if boiled and scummed. 

Dutch beef. 

Take a lean buttock of beef, rub it well with 
brown sugar, and let it lay in a pan three hours, ^ 
turning it two or three times 5 then salt it well 
with conmion bait and saltpetre, and let it remain ^. 



• • ; '1 ... 

-■■ ''i 



USEFUL BECKIPT BOOK. I^^) 



fourteen days, turning it regularly ; then roll it 
tight in a coarse cloth, and put it in a cheese-preM 
for twenty-four hours, and then smoke it. Observe 
it must be boiled in a cloth. 

Management of hams. 

When your hams are smoked, hang them for a 
month or two in a damp place, so as to make them 
mouldy. Then tie them well up in brown paper, 
and hang them in a very dry place — never lay 
these hams in water till you boil them 5 then put 
them in cold water, and let them be on the tire four 
hours before they boil. Skim the pot well, and 
frequently before it boils j when it boils, two hours 
will do it enough. 

To boil hams. 

Put your ham into a copper of cold v/ater, and 
when it boils, take czire that it boils slowly. A 
ham of twenty pounds will take four hours and a 
half boiling -, and so in proportion for one of a 
laiger or smaller size^ No soaking is required for 
a green ham ; but an old and large ham w&l requhtL 
sixteen hours soaking in water, after Which it shoulil 
lie on damp stones, sprinkled with water, two or 
three days to mellow. Observe to' keep the pot well 
skimmed while your ham is boiling. When you 
take it up, pull off the skin as whole as possible, and 
save it ; and strew on it raspings. When the ham 
is brought from table, put the skin upon it, which 
will preserve it moist. 

To make bacon, 

•Take a side of pork, then take off all the inside 
Jilt, lay it on a dresser, that the blood may run 
away; rub it well with good salt on both sides. 
iM it lie thus a week, then take a pint of bay salt. 



110 DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AND 



four ounces of saltpetre^ 'beatthem fiiief two pounds 
of coarse sugar^ and a quarter of a peck of common 
salt. Lay your pork in something that will hold 
the pickle^ and rub it well with the above ingre- 
dients ; lay the skinny side downwards^ and baste it 
every day for a fortnight with the pickle j then 
hang it in wood smoke to dry^ afterwards hang it 
in a dry, but not a hot place. You are to observe 
that all hams and bacon should hang dear from 
every thing, and on no account against a wall. — 
Remember that you wipe off all . the old salt before 
you put it in this pickle. 

Africandeauofbeef. 

Take three pounds of lean beef, lard it with ba- 
con, well seasoned vnth spices, according to fericy, 
then lay the whole in a stew-pan, with a sufficient 
quantity of gravy, a gill of white wine, some pep^- 
per, salt, and two shalots, to which may be added, 
if agreeable, a few cloves, and a clove of garlick, 
with all kinds of sweet herbs. When the meat is 
tender, cover it close, then skim the sauce, and strain 
it, place it over the fire, and let it boil tiLl reduced 
to a glaze, with which glaze the larded side, and 
serve it up. 

Stewed rump of beef. 

Partly roast it, then lay it in a pot with four pints 
of water, some salt, a gill of vinegar^ three table- 
spoonsful of ketchup, a bunch of sweet herbs, 
onions, cloves, and cayenne } cover it close^ and let 
it simmer tiU tender -,. when enough, lay it in a deep 
dish, over hot water, and cover it close, then skim 
the gravy well, and add pickled mushrooms and a 
spoonful of soy, thicken with flour and buttof*- 
warm the whole, and pom* it over the me&t^ and 
serve with force-meat balls. 




USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. Ill 

To roast a rump or sirloin of beef. 

Place them at a moderate distance from the fire, 
then flour and baste them constantly -, take four 
spoonsful of vinegar, a shalot^ some horse-radish, 
one glass of claret, and two spoonsful of ketchup, 
with which baste the beef four or five times^ then 
strain and lay it under the meat, garnish with horse- 
radish finely scraped. A rump roasted in this man- 
ner is truly delicious ; but the sauce thus mentioned 
Is not absolutely requisite^ if inconvenient. 

To press beef. 

Salt the tops of the ribs with salt and saltpetre six 
days, then boil them till perfectly tender, and put 
them in a cheese-press till cold. 

To make a fillet of beef. 

Hang four ribs, for as many days, then cut out 
all the bones, after which sprinkle adl with salt, roll 
the meat very tight and roast it. When dressed, it 
looks beautiAil, and eats far better than when 
dressed with the bones. 

Hunter's beef. 

To a' round of beef, boned, that weighs thirty 
pounds, and has hung four days, take four ounces 
of coarse sugar, the same quantity of saltpetre, 
two ounces of cloves, two nutmegs, an ounce of 
allspice, and half a pound of common salt} reduce 
these ingredients to a fine powder, which must be 
rubbed well into the meat ; when this is done, the 
beef must be turned and rubbed every day for a . 
month. 

When the beef is to be dressed, a little water 
must be thrown over it to wash off the loose spice, 
it must then be bound well up, and put into an 



114 D0ME8T1C COOKERY^ AND 

Stewed ox cheek. 

Soak and clean half a head well. Separate the 
meat from the bones^ and lay M in an earthen pan 
with onions^ allspice;, pepper^ salt^ sweet herbs^ 
and a little Cayenne and ketchup, pour on two 
quarts of water^ and cover the pah close with a 
trencher, then let it stand six hours in a slow oven. 

Marrow bon^ 

Must have the top covered with a floured cloth, 
and be served with dry toast. 

Tripe 

May be fried in batter, or served in a tureen with 
butter and mustard, after having been stewed in 
milk and onion till tender ; or it may be fricaseed 
with white sauce, or soused. 

Bubble and squeak. 

Take some butter, pepper, salt, and cold cabbage, 
chop the whole together, and fry it ; when done, 
lay on it some slices of underdone corned beef, 
fried of a fine brown colour. 

Cow heels. 

Boil till tender, (save the liquor they were boiled 
in, and use it for making soup), and serve with 
melted butter, mustard, and vinegar 5 or parsley 
and butter. 

Or, having cut the heel into four parts, dip them 
in yolk of ^g, strew grated bread over them, and 
fry of a nice brown in dripping : fry. sliced onions, 
lay them in the middle of the dish, and the heel 
round it. 

Knuckle of veal 
Requires merely to be boiled till perfiecUy^ tender^ 




«- 



USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. , 115 

and then serve it with melted butter and chopped 
parsley^ or it may be fried with sliced onion to a 
fine brown colour, then lay it in a stew-pan with 
some ready stewed pease, onions, lettuce, to which 
may be added a large cuciunber; simmer the whole 
till the meat is tender, and season with pepper and 
salt, then serve it, and garnish with lemon, sliced. 

Observe, veal, in whatever manner it is dressed 
should always have bacon or ham to eat with it. 

Neck of Veal 

May be boiled, and served with parsley and 
melted butter. 

The best end will eat very well roasted^ or make 
very excellent pies. It may be also stewed and 
seasoned agreeable to your own fancy, or broiled as 
chops. 

Chump of veal, a-ki'daube. 

Take the chump of the loin, and extract the edge- 
bone, prepare some rich force-meat, and fill the 
hollow with it ; secure ii; well, then place the,, veal ^ 
in a clean stew-pan, with some sweet herbs, . some 
ketchup, mace, white pepper, two anchovies, and 
a little finely shred lemon-peel ; lay over the whole 
some neat ^ces of gbod fat bacon > then cover the 
pan close, and let it simmer two hours and a half, 
then remove the bacon, and glaze the veal 5 serve . 
it agreeable to fancy. 

Harrico of veal. 

Cut the bones from the best end of a neck, then 
lay the meat in a stew-pan, and cover it wilh good 
brown gravy 5 when nearly enough, have ready a 
pint of boiled pease, four cucumbers sliced, and 
one large cabbage-lettuce divided into quarters, 
aU stewed ia^i little strong broth, add them to the 



116 DOMESTIC COOKERY, AND 



veal, and let them simmer a quarter of an hour, 
then serve with force-meat-balls round the dish. 

Ragoo of veal sweetBreads, 

Divide them into pieces, wash and dry them, 
then put them in a stew-pan of hot burned butter, 
and stir them tiU brown, then cover them with rich 
gravy, to which add pepper, salt, mace, two 
cloves, a little allspice, and some mushrooms, let 
the whole stew forty minutes, then strain the liquor, 
and thicken it with butter and floury lay the sweet- 
bread in a dish, and pour it over them. Garnish 
with sliced lemon. 

To ragoo a leg of mutton. 

Carefully separate the skin and fat, then cut the 
flesh off the right way of the grain in thin pieces, 
butter the stew-pan and dust it with flour, lay in 
the meat with a lemon, one onion cut very small, 
some sweet herbs and mace, stir the whole fdr a 
few minutes, then add half a pint of strong gravy, 
two minced ai^chovies, and some butter rolled in 
flour ; stir the whole up again for ten minutes, ahd 
then serve it up. 

A'la-mode berf. 

Take either of the fbUoi^ang pieces of beef, thick 
flank, shoulder-of-mutton piece, clod, veiny piece ; 
and take a deep tin pot that will rather more than 
hold the beef, cover the bottom with clean skewers, 
and put upon them four large onions fried a nice 
brown 5 put in the beef, sprinkling it with pow- 
dered flJlspice, four cloves powdered, black peeper, 
and salt, add one turnip, two heads of celery, and 
three carrots, all cut small; fill up the pot with 
one part of table-beer and two parts of water, 
cover it very clbse^ and let it stew gently ten hours. 



"V, 



USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 117 



To stew beef-steaks. 

Half broil them^ and lay them in a stew-pan^ 
season agreeable to taste^ add enough strong gravy 
to cover them> and a bit of butter roHed in flour ; 
let them stew half an hour^ then throw in the beaten 
yolks of two eggs^ and stir the whole ten minutes, 
then serve it up. 

Leg of beef 

With a sharp knife^ cut off all the meat^ leaving 
the gristly part fast to the bone : saw the bone into 
several pieces^ and put them with three gallons of 
water, six onions, four carrots, sweet herbs, two 
leeks, a little allspice, salt, and black pepper, into 
an iron pot to stew over the fire all night : in the 
morning skim off the fat, and having cut the meat 
into thick slices, fry it a nice brown with a part 
of the fat thus skimmed 5 the remsdnder will make 
good pie crust. In the same pan fry six large 
onions -, put these and the slices of meat together 
with a quart of table-beer, into the pot with the 
liquor of the bones, adding more onions, carrots, 
turnips, &c. : let the whole stew gently eight hours 5 
take up the meat, and strain the liquor over it. 

To stew brisket of beef 

Rub the brisket with common salt^and saltpetre, 
let it lay four or five days, then lard it with fet 
baoon, and lay it in a stew-pan with a quart of 
water, a pint of strong beer, some sweet herbs, 
eight ounces of butter, three shalots, some grated 
nutmeg and pepper, cover it close, and stew it over 
a slow fire, for five or six hours ; then strain the 
liquor, and thicken with burnt butter; lay the beef 
in a large dish, and pour it over ; then serve it up 
garnished with sliced lemon. 



llg DOMESTIC COOKERY; ANi> 

^p^^^— WM^^— ^IP^i^l^l^— ^■^■^■fc^i^^-— ^■^^■^■^■^W^— ^i^M^W^—i^Mi— ■^^^^— ^ ■ ^PM^M^^^^I^^M^^^^^^^^^^ 

Tojrkasee lamb brown. 

Rub the pieces over with yolks of eggs and roll 
them in a mixture of pepper, salt^ grated lemon- 
peel, nutmeg, and powdered herbs; put some butter 
in your stew-pan, and melt it, then throw in the 
meat, and fry it of a fine brown : when enough, 
strain off the butter, and pour in half a pint of 
gravy, a gill of Port wine, some pickled mush- 
rooms, two minced anchovies, and a piece of butter 
rolled in flour; when sufficiratly thick, dish, and 
serve it up. 

Rabbit and chicken are done in the same manner. 

Tojrkasee lamb white. 

Slice a leg of half-rpasted lamb when cold ; lay 
it in a stew-pan with a little white gravy, some 
nutmeg, one shalot finely shred, a few minced 
capers, and some salt ; let it simmer over the stove 
till enough, then thicke^ with cream, the yolks of 
two eggs, and some chopped parsley, beaten well 
together. Grarnish with oysters. 

Fried beef -steaks. 

Beat them well, then fry them in butter over a 
quick fire, till brown. WTien enough, pour off the 
butter, and add some good gravy, a little ketchup, 
and a sliced onion, thicken it with butter, and serve 
it up. 

The quantity of onion may be increased at 
pleasure. 

Scotch'Collops, brown. 

Take slices of lean veal, dip them in the yolks of 
eggs, that have been beaten up with melted butter, 
salt, nutmeg, and grated lemon-peel. Fry them 
very ouirk frequently shaking them to prevent the 



^'■• 



USEFUL BECEIPT BOOK. 119 



butter from oiling) then add strong beef gravy, and 
mushrooms. Gramish with sausages. 

Scotch'Collops, uohite. 

Take the veal as above, but do not dip it in eggs ; 
when fWed tender, but not brown, then strain the 
liquor clear off, and add some cream, after which 
just give it one boil up. 

Veal cutlets. 

Slice your veal, lard it with bacon, season with 
nutmeg, pepper, salt, lemon-thyme, and sweet 
maijorum; wash them with eggs first, and then 
strew over the seasonings dip them in melted butter, 
and wrap them in buttered white paper, then broil 
them on a gridiron, at some distance from the fire -, 
when -enough, take off the paper, serve with gravy, 
and garnish with sliced lemon. 

To force sirloin of beef 

When roasted, lay it in the dish with the inside 
uppermost, then lift the skin, and cut the inside 
very fine ; add pepper, salt, a little Cayenne, and 
some finely minced shalots^ cover it with the skin, 
an4 serve it up. 

Hung'beef 

Hang your beef till it begins to turn, then wipe 
it with a clean cloth, and salt it with a pound of 
bay salt, a quarter of a pound of saltpetre, and half 
a pound of coarse sugar ; let it remain six weeks 
in this pickle, observing to turn it every dayj then 
dry it. 

Mutton-hanu, 

Cut a leg of mutton like a ham, and salt it with 
one ounce of saltpetre, a pound of coarse sugar. 



120 DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AND 

and the same quantity of common salt^ tmn and rub 
it for fourteen days 3 then roll it in saw-dust, and 
smoke it. Mutton-ham should never be boiled^ but 
eaten in rashers. 

Minced veal. i 

Cut your veal extremely fine, add to it some 
nutmeg, finely shred lemon-peel, and salt, pour 
over these ingredients, a few spoonsful of water ; 
let the whole simmer, but not boil, then thicken 
with butter rubbed in flour. Serve with sippets 
and lemon. 

To pot veal. 

Take a pound of the fiUet when cold^ season with 
mace, cloves, and pepper-corns, lay it in a pan that 
will just hold it, fill it with water, and let it bake 
three hours -, after which pound it in a mort^, with 
a little salt, and gradually add the liquor in which 
it was baked, if for immediate use; but if to be 
preserved, omit the gravy, and supply its place 
with a little melted butter. When done^ cover it 
with clarified butter. 

Veal cutlets fried. 

Take your slices of veal^ beat them, and wet 
them with eggs^ then make a seasoning of bread* 
crumbs, parsley, thyme, nutm^, pepper, and salt, 
into which dip them, then fry them in butter nicely 
brown. They eat exceedingly well without herbs. 

Scollops of cold veal or chicken. 

Chop your meat small, add some nutmeg, pepper, 
salt, and a little cream, set the whole over a fire 
for ten minutes ; then lay it in scollop-shells, and 
W. them with bread crumbs, over which, put some 
small pieces of butter, and brown them before a 
good fire. 



V 



V 



USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 121 

Veal sausages. 

'take one pound of lean veal^ and the same 
quantity of fat bacon^ with sage> salt^ pepper, and 
four anchovies, chop the whole well, and then 
pound it in a mortar -, when used, roll and fry it. 
Serve with fried sippets. 

To roast calfs head. 

Wash the head very dean, take out the brains, 
and dry well with a cloth. Make a seasoning of 
beaten mace, white pepper and salt, some bacon 
cut very small, and some grated bread. Strew this 
over it, roll it up, and skewer it with a small skewer, 
and tie it with tape. Roast and baste it with butter : 
make a rich veal-gravy, thickened with butter, and 

roll it in flour. 

■ » 

V 

To boil calf's head. 

Wash it very clean, soak it in water for two 
hours ; boil it white in a doth ; and boil the brains 
in another doth^ with a very little parsley, and a 
leaf or two of sage. When they are boiled^ diop 
them small^ and warm them in a saucepan, with a 
bit of bjutter, and a little pepper and salt. Lay the 
tongue, boiled and peded in the middle of a small 
dish, and the brains round it; have, in another 
dish, baeon or pickled pork 5 greens or carrots in 
another. 

To hash calf's head. 

« 

If any head is left, it will make an excellent hash 
the next day. For 4vhich purpose brown some 
butter, flour, and sliced onion, and throw in your 
meat sliced, with some strong gravy -, give it one 
boil, skim it carefiiUy, and then let it simmer till 
suffidently tender: season with pepper, salt, and 



»* 



1^ DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AND 



Cayenne^ and herbs^ according to taste. Garnish 
with force-meat balls. 

Mock turtle. 

Cut a calf 's-head^ with the skin on^ In halves^ 
clean it well^ parboil it^ and cut all the meat in 
small square pieces > then break the bones, and 
boil them in some beef-broth : fry some shalots in 
butter, and add enough of flour to thicken the 
gravy, stir this into the browning, and give it a 
boil, taking off the scum; then add a pint of 
Madeira, and let the whole simmer, till the meat is 
perfectly tender j when nearly enough, throw in 
some chives, parsley, basil, salt, Cayenne pepper, 
one spoonful of soy, and three of mushroom ket- 
chup; then squeeze a little lemon-juice into the 
tureen, pour your soup on it, and serve with force- 
meat-balls. 

Mock turtle, without calf's head. 

Take three cow-heels, and having cut them in 
pieces, stew till tender in four quarts of second 
stock : add five anchovies, a piece of butter, salt, 
Cayenne, mace, cloves, shred lemon-peel, three 
leeks, parsley, and lemon-thyme, all finely shred: 
stew gently for two hours : cut two pounds of lean 
veal into small pieces, fry in butter of a light 
brown, and add to the above, with a pint of Ma- 
deira, four spoonsful of ketchup> and stew another 
hour : have ready some force-meat balls and egg- 
balls, which add a quarter.of an hour before serving, 
and immediately before put into the tureen, add the 
juice of two lemons. 

Sweetbreads, 

Parboil them, and stew them with white gravy, 
and add salt, pepper, floured butter, and cream '3 



^ 



USEFUL RfiCEIPT BOOK. 138 



or they may be done in brown sauce^ and seasoned 
to fiincy, or they may be parboiled^ and then (tip- 
ped in egg and crumbs^ and fried. 

To fry calf 8 liver and bacon. 

Fry the bacon and parsley first, then put in the 
liyer. The liver should be soaked in water half 
an hour, then cut in slices, and dried well with a 
cloth, and iioured. After it is done, mix a little 
flour in a tea-cup of water, with a small piece of 
butter and a little salt 3 pour it inta the pan, and 
stir it well -, when boiled, pour it over the ^ve^and 
bacon> and serve it up. 

Calfs heart roasted. 

Having made a force-meat of grated bread, a 
quarter of a poimd of beef suet chopped small, a 
little parsley, sweet marjoram and lemon-peel, 
mixed up with a little white pepper, salt, nutmeg, 
and the yolk of an egg, fill the heart with it, and 
lay a veal caul over the stuffing, or a sheet of writ- 
ing-paper, to keep it in its place, and keep turning 
it till it is thoroughly roasted. Serve with good 
gravy under it. 

N.B. A bullock*s heiurt is done in the same 
manner. 

Kidney 

May be either broiled or roasted, or chopped 
into small pieces, with some of the. fat, seasoned 
with pepper^ suet, and onion, then roll it into 
small balls with an egg, and ^ it. 

To roast a leg of pork. 

Take a small one, and slit the knuckle; fill the 
opening with sage^ onion^ crumbs of bread, pepper 



124 DOMESTIC COOKERY, AND 



and salt. When half done, score the outer skill 
with a sharp knife. Serve with apple sauce. 

To boil a leg of pork. 

Lay a leg which has been ten days in salt, half an 
hour in cold water -, then put it on the fire ', allow 
iifteen minutes for every pound, and thirty over 
from the time that it boils up : take the scum off 
frequently. Observe, to have your meat look well, 
it should be boiled in a cloth -, when enough, serve 
with pease pudding. 

Pickled pork. 

Having washed your pork, and scraped it clean, 
let it lie half an hour in cold water, put it in when 
the water is cold, and let it boil till the rind be 
tender. 

Spnng of pork. 

Extract the bones, strew salt, pepper, and dried 
sage^ over the inside, then flour it, roll the pork 
tight, secure it by tying, roast it, and baste with 
butter : it will be enough in two hours and a 
quarter. 

Rolled neck ofporkm 

Extract the bones^ put chopped sage, bread- 
crumbs, pepper, salt, and a little allspice over the 
inside 3 then roll the whole extremely tight, tie it 
securely, and roast it at some distance from the fire. 

Spare rib. 

Baste with butter and flour, sprinkle with dry 
broken sage, and serve with apple sauce. 

Pork griskin. 
Cover it with cold water, and give it one boil up. 



USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 125 



then take it immediately out^ and lay it in a Dutch- 
oven, haying previously rubbed it with butter and 
flour : a few minutes will do it. 

Pork steaks. 

Out them of a proper thickness, pepper, salt, and 
broil them, observing to broil them frequently ^ 
when hearly enough, add a little salt, and rub them 
with butter : serve them hot and hot. 

Sausages, ^ 

Chop fiat and lean pork, or beef, well together, 
season with sage, pepper, salt, allspice, and nutmegs 
then lay it in b, pan, tde it well down, and keep it 
for use, for which purpose roll it, dust it with 
flour, and fiy it nicely brown : or it may be stuffed 
in well-cleaned hog's guts, in which case you must 
add to the meat a fourth part of bread-crumbs 
soaked in water. When dressed, observe to prick 
them with a fork, otherwise they wiU burst. 

Oxford sausages. 

Take of veal and pork, cleared from the skin and 
sinews, two pounds eadi, and one pound of beef 
tuet, mince and mix them well, to which add. the 
soaked crumb of a penny roll, with salt, pepper, 
and dried sage. 

To roast a pig. 
Take one about six weeks old, stuff the belly 
with salt, pepper, sage, and bread crumbs, then 
sew it up 5 place it Tbefore a smart fire -, when 
perfectly dry, tie up a piece of butter in a clean 
cloth, and rub the pig all over with it, then dredge 
as much flour as wiU lie on it, and meddle no more 
with it till enough^ then take a knife and sorape 
all the flour off, and rub it again with the buttered 
idcrth; cut off the head, extract the brains^ and 

M 3 



1*26 DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AND 

mix them with the gravy that comes from the pig : 
put this into the dish, and serve with melted butter : 
garnish with the ears and two jaws. 

Pettitoes. 

Take a small quantity of water^ in which boil 
the pettitoes with the liver and hearty then mince 
the meat 5 split the feet> and smamer the whole till 
the feet are perfectly tender^ thicken with butter 
and fiour^ add a little cream^ and season with salt 
and pepper : serve with sippets. 

To roast a porker's head. 

Take your head^ and stuff with sage and breadj, 
sew it well up^ then roast it in a hanging jack as a 
pig^ and serve it up with the same sauce. 

Boiled pig's cheek. 

When sufficiently salt^ (which generally is the 
case in ten days^) wash it well^ and let it simmer 
till perfectly tender : serve with pease-pudding. 

Pig*s harslet. 

Take some liver^ sweetbreads^ and fat and lean 
pork^ wash the whole and dry it 5 season with sage^ 
minced onion^ salt^ and pepper -, lay the whole in a 
caul, and sew it well up, roast it by^ a string, and 
when done enough> serve with Port wine and 
water^ boiled gently up wit}i scnne mustard. 

Black puddings. 

Stir three pints of blood with salt till cold ; boil a 
quart of half-grits in as much water as will swell them, 
then drain them, and add the blood, twelve ounces 
of suet, with some powdered nutmeg, mace, cloves, 
and allspice, a pound of the hog's leaf cut small, 
fiome finely minced -parsley, sage, thyme, and liaar- 



VSBFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 127 

joram^ half a pound of bread crumbs scalded : sea- 
son with pepper and salt, mix the whole weU toge- 
ther, and then having some well cleaned guts, fill 
them with the above ingredients, tie them in luiks, 
and boil them, (diuing which operation they must 
be pricked, to prevent their bursting) then cover 
them with a cloth till cold. 

Hog*s lard. 

Should be carefully melted, and run either into 
very small jars, or bladders, and carefully stopped, 
as the entrance of the air will soon spoil the lard. 

Leg cf mutton. 

ShoiQd be slowly boiled, like a leg of lamb, in a 
white cloth y and when done, served up with caper 
sauce, and meshed turnips in one dish, and carrots 
in another 5 garnish with pieces of carrot or turnip 
prettily shaped. Or, you may roast it, and serve 
with currant jelly, or onion sauce. A shoulder is 
dressed the same, but never boiled. 

Haunch of mutton. 

Keep it sweet as long as possible : when you de- 
sign to dress it, wash it wdl, fold the haimch in 
some strong paper, and set it at some distance from 
the fire, remove the paper about half an hoiur before 
serving, bring it nearer the fire, and baste it con- 
stantly, observing to froth it up as venison 5 serve 
with currant-jelly sauce. 

' Neck of mutton. 

Is a useful, but not an advantageous joint. The 
best end Aiaybe boiled, and served with meshed 
turnips -, or roasted, or dressed in steaks, or made 
into pies, or harrico. 

The scrag end will make excellent broth, to which 



138 DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AND 

a little milk makes a great improvement. If the 
neck is too fat, cut off some of it^ and being chopped 
fine^ it will make an excellent pudding. 

Roast saddle of mutton. 

Let it hang some days^ lift the skin^ and skewer 
it on again ', twenty minutes before serving, take it 
quite off, sprinkle with salt, baste it,^ and dredge it 
well with flour. It should never be too large. 

Hashed mutton. 

Slice your cold meat, lay it in a stew-pan with 
some boiled onion, a gill of water, and a pint of 
gravy, add a spoonM of ketchup, two cloves, and 
a little salt and pqiper ; let the whole simmer, but 
not boil ; serve it with pickles, button mushrooms, 
and sippets. 

Breast of mutton. 

Take off some of the fat, roast the meat^ and 
serve with stewed cucumbers. 

Loin of mutton. 

May be roasted, same as the saddle, or it may be 
made into broth, or cut into chops, or made into 
pies. 

Mutton, or lamb chops. 

Should be taken from the loin, and broiled over 
a very clear fire, turned often, and seasoned when 
half done, with pepper and salt j when enough, lay 
them in a dish, rub a bit of butter on each, and 
serve them hot and hot. Pickles should be always 
sent to table with them. 

Mutton steaks maintenon. 
Take good steaks, half fry them, and stew them 



'» - 




USEFUL RECEIPT BOOA 129 



while hot, with crumbs^ herbs, and seasoning, then 
put them in paper, and finish on the gridiron : ob- 
serve to butter the paper. 

Grass lamb. 

So many pounds as the joint weighs^ so many 
quarters of an hour it must boil. Serve it up with 
spinach^ carrots, cabbage, and brocoli. 

Leg of lamb 

Should be boiled in a cloth as white as possible 5 
or it may be roasted : it will take near an hour. 

Loin of lamb 
May be either cut into steaks, or roasted. 

ji fore-quarter of lamb. 

Lamb requires to be well roasted. A small fore- 
quarter will take an hoiu* and a half. For sauce, 
mint sauce, with salad, brocoli, potatoes, celery 
raw or stewed 3 or for a fore-quarter of house- 
lamb, cut off the shoulder, pepper and salt the ribs, 
and squeeze a Seville orange over it. 

Lamb steaks fried, 

Should be of a very beautiful brown. When 
served, throw over some fried crumbs, and a little 
crimped parsley : serve with sauce robart. 

Lamb cutlets, with spinach. 

Stew your spinach, and lay it in the dish, then, 
having fned some steaks from the loin nicely brown^ 
lay them roimd it. 

Lamb's head and hinge^ 

Soak it for some time in cold water; boil the 
head separately till quite tender, then, after you 



130 DtME&TIC COOKERY, AND 

have three parts boiled the liver and lights^ mince 
them small^ ami stew them in a little of the water 
in which they were boiled, season it to your palate, 
and thicken with floured butter: so-ve the head 
with the mince round it. 

Lamb^sfry. 

Fry it of a fin© brown, and serve with fHed 
parsley. 

Lamb's sweetbread. 

Lay them for a short time in cold water, then 
put. them in a stew-pan with half a pint of broth, 
some maoe, onions, pepper, and salt, add a bit of 
buttered floiur, and let the whole stew about forty 
minutes, then put in two eggs, well beaten^ some 
parsley, a little grated nutmeg, and half a pint of 
cream 5 after the cream and eggs are put in> it must 
be constantly stirred, but not suffered to boil, 
which would curdle it; you may also add some 
young French-beans, or pease, or asparagus tops, 
previously boiled. The sweetbreads ought to be 
blanched. 



DIRECTIONS CONCERNING POULTRY 

AND GAME. 



REMARKS. 



To dress wild fowl, a clear fire is requisite, before 
which they should be done of a fine brown colour^ 
but not too much, for if the gravy runs out, it will 
destroy their flavour. Great care should be pai4 



USEFUL AECEIPT BOOK. 131 

to the picking of poultry^ which should then be 
nicely singed with writing papc^r. Tame fowls re- 
quire more roasting^ as they are a long time before 
they get thoroughly heated. They should be often 
basted, in order to keep up a strong froth, as 
it makes them of a ^ner colour, and rise better. 
Ducks and geese should be roasted' before a good 
fire^ and turned quickly. Hares and rabbits re- 
quire time and care, to see the ends are roasted 
enough. In order to prevent their appearing 
bloody at the neck when they are cut up, cut the 
neck-skin, when they are half roasted, and let out 
the blood. Al} sorts should be continually basted 
with fresh butter, which will give them a good co* 
lour, and make them frothy. A fuU grown fowl 
.will take three quarters of an hour, a middling 
one, thirty minutes, and a chicken twenty minutes. 
Wild ducks a quarter of an hour, a goose one 
hour, pheasants twenty minutes, a stuffed turkey 
one hour and a half, turkey poults twenty-four 
minutes, partridges half an hour, and a hare one 
hour, &c. But in all cases, you must be guided in 
txme by the manner your fhmily approve of them, as 
some persons eat game scarcely warmed, and 
others as well done as tame fowls. 

To roast a luire. 

Take of bread-crumbs and shred suet equal 
quantities, some chopped parsley and thyme, salt, 
jpepper and nutmeg, two eggs, two spoonsfull of 
port wine, and a little lemon-peel. Mix these in- 
gredients well together, and sew them up in the 
hare's belly ; place it before a slow fire, baste with 
milk till it becomes very thick, then msike your fire 
brisk, and baste with butter. Serve with currant 
jelly. N. B. If not convenient the wine may be 
U& out of the stuffing. 



132 DOMESTIC COOKER Y> AND 



T(y rooit rabbits. 

Baste them with good butter^ and dredge with 
flour ', they will require from thirty to fifty minutes, 
according to size; boil the liver with some parsley , 
chop it fine^ and mix it with melted butter, which 
pour over the rabbit when dished. Save a few 
slices of the liver for garnishing. 

Rabbits roasted harefashion. 

Lard your rabbit with bacon, and roast in the 
manner of a hare. If you lard it, you must make 
gravy sauce ; but, if it be not lajrded^ white sauce 
will be most proper, — See Sauces. 

To roast a green goose. 

Put a large lump of butter into the goose^ spit it 
and lay it down to the fire. Singe it, dredge it 
with flour, and beiste it well with butter. If the 
goose be a large one, it must be kept to the fire 
three quarters of an hour -, and when you think it 
is enough, dredge it with flour, baste it till a fine 
froth rises on it, and the goose be of a nice brown. 
Same sauce as directed for green goose. 

To roast a stubble goose. 

Mix some sage, onion, pepper, salt, and butter, 
together, and lay it in the bdly of the goose, then 
spit it, dredge with flour, and baste with butter -, 
when enough, take it up and pour a little water 
through it. Serve with apple-sauce. 

To boil turkey. 

Take herbs, nutmeg, salt, pepper, breads two 
anchovies, a little lemon-peel, a small bit of butter^ 
some suet, and an egg, mix the whole weU toge- 
ther^ and stuff it in the crop, s6w it up^ and boil 




USEFUL HECSIPT BOOK. 133 



the turkey in a flannel cloth^ which will cause it to 
look wlute. Serve with oyster sauce^ enriched 
with cream^ and a little soy. . 

Roiist turkey. 

Twist the head under the wing -, stuff with sau- 
sage-meat^ lay a small strip of paper on the breast- 
bone to prevent it from scorching^ baste with but- 
ter, and froth it well up. Serve with gravy in the 
dish, and bread-sauce in a tureen. 

Observe, that the sinews of the leg should inva- 
riably be drawn out, whether roasted or • boiled. 
A few bread crumbs and a well beaten egg, is a 
considerable improvement to the sausage mefiit. 

To boil/owls or chickens 

For this purpose, never choose black-legged ones, 
pick, singe, and wash them well, then lay them 
in boiling water, after having floured them. Serve 
with melted butter and parsley. Ham should 
always be boiled to eat with boil^ fowls. 

To roast pigeons. 

Mix some butter, salt, pepper, and chopped 
parsley, well together -, lay these ingredients in the 
bellies of the pigeons, observing to tie the neck 
end tight, then roast them with a string fastened 
to their legs and rumps, torn them constantly, and 
baste with butter -, when enough, lay them in your 
dish^ and they will aboimd with gravy. 

To roast larks. 

Pick and clean them carefully, then place them 
on a bird-spit, and roast them } when enough, lay 
them in your dish, and throw fried bread crumbk 
over them. 

N 



134 DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AND 

mmmmmmmmmmmmim^mmm^mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmimiim 

To roait chickens, 
Fluck your chickens very carefully^ draw them^ 
and cut off their claws only« and tmss them. Put 
them down to a good fire^ singe^ dust^ and haste 
them with hutter. A quarter of an hour will roast, 
them 3 and when they are enough^ firoth them'^ and 
lay them on your dish. Serve up with parsley and 
butter, or wlute sauce. 

Fowls. 

Having deansed and dressed your \arg& fbwk^ 
put them down to a good fire, singe, dust, and 
baste them well with butter. They must be near 
an hour at the fire. Make your gravy of the necks 
and gizzards, and when you have strained it, put 
in a spoonful of browning. Take up your fowls, 
pour some gravy into a dish, and serve them up 
with egg-sauce. 

Pheasants, 

Pheasants and Partridges x may be treated in the 
same manner. Dust them with flour, and baste 
them often with fresh butter, keeping them at a 
good distance from the fire. A good fire will 
roast them in half* an hour. Serve up with poiv- 
rade sauce, and bread sauce.- 

IbwU Pheasant-fashion. 

If you should have but one pheasant, and want 
two in a dish, take a lar^e full-grown fowl, keep 
the head on, and truss it just as you do a pheasant. 
Lard it witiii bacon, but do not lard the pheasant, 
and no body will know it 




USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 185 



Broiled fowls. 

Split them down the back, pepper^ salt^ and broil 
them. Serve \vith mushroom-sauce. 

To roast woodcocks and snipes. 

Put them on a bird-spit^ then take a slice of 
bread, toast it brown, and lay it in a dish under 
the birds; baste with butter, and let the trail drop 
on the toast ; when enough, lay the toast in a dish, 
and place the woodcocks upon it 3 pour a little grary 
in the dish, and send them to table. It may perhaps 
be necessary to remark, that nothing is ever taken 
out of a woodcock or snipe. 

To stew a duck. 

When perfectly clean, put it in a stew-p»n with 
strong beef-gravy, a gill of port-wine, some whole 
pepper, one. onion, two anchovies, and some lemon- 
peel $ when enough, thicken the gravy with but^ 
tered flour, and serve it up. 

* 

Tofricasee chickens or rabbits white. 

Piece them, wash the blood off, and fry tjiem 
on a slow fire, then lay them in your stew-pan with 
some strong white gravy, season, and toss them 
up, and when nearly enough, add a pint of milk 5 
thicken with floured butter, and serve them up. 

To boil rabbits. 

Boil your rabbit slowly in plenty of water, and 
skim it frequently : it will be enough in forty mi- 
nutes : lay your rabbit in a dish, and bury it in 
onion sauce, in which manner serve it ^ previously 
dividing the head, and laying one half on each side 
of the dish. 



136' DOMESTIC COOKERY, AND 



To force fowt 

This is done by staffing any part with fbrce-^meat, 
which is generally put just between the skin and 
the flesh. 

To puU chickens. . 

Skin and pull the flesh from the bones of 4 cold 
fowl, dredge the pieces with flour, and fry them of 
a fine brown colour in fresh butter ^ then having 
drained off the butter, let the flesh simmer in good 
gravy, season agreeable to fJEincy^ and thicken with 
floui«d butter. 

Chicken currie. 

Skin and cut up a fowl, make a mixture of two 
oimces of flour and half an ounce of currie-powder, 
in which roll each piece ; slice two large onions, 
and fry them in butter of a fine light brown colour 5 
then add the meat, and let it fry till it begins to 
turn brown, when the whole must be laid in a stew- 
pan with just enough boiling water to cover it ; let 
the whole simmer two hours, and serve with boiled 
rice. 

Veal and rabbits make an equally good currie. 

Ducks roasted. 

Stuff your ducks with sage and onions, a few 
bread crumbs, a piece of butter, salt and pepper, 
when enough, serve with rich gravy and mustard. 

When any is left cold, it may be hashed by warm- 
ing it in rich gravy. 

To boil ducks. 

When you have scalded and drawn your ducks 
let them remain a few, minutes in warm water, then 
take them out, put them into an earthen pan, and 
pour a pint of boiling milk over them. Let them 



tSEFUL RfiCEIPT BOOX^ 137 



lie in it two or three hours^ and when you take 
them out^ dredge them well with flour 3 put them 
into cold water^ and cover them up. Hiaving hoile4 
slowly about twenty minutes^ take them out, and 
smother* them with onion sauce. 

To roast goose. 

When carefully picked, singed^ washed, and 
dried, stuff in the same manner as duck, after which, 
secure it at the neck and rump, and then roast ; — to 
prevent scorching, pin a sheet of white paper over 
the breast^ baste it well, and when enough^ serve 
with rich gravy and apple-sauce. 

To slew giblets. 
See giblet pie — ^page 143. ^ 

To boil pheasants <md partridges. 

Boil them quick in a good deal of water, and 
fifteen minutes will be sufficient. For sauce, a quar- 
ter of a pint of cream, and a piece of fresh butter 
as large as a walnut 5 stir it one way till it be 
melted, and pour it into the dish. Garnish with 
lemon. 

Grouse 

Roast as fowls, observing to twist the head under 
the wing. They should be rather under-done, and 
served with rich gravy and bread sauce. 

To pot birds. 

When caref^y cleaned, season well with mace, 
white-pepper, salt, and allspice finely powdered; 
then lay them, breast downwards, in a pan, and 
pack them as close as possible ; put plenty of butter 



1S8 DOMESTIC COOKERY, AND 

^i^^^^W^^^^I ^ — ■ ■ ^M^— ■ ■ !■! ■■»■■ ■■■■I.I ■■ ■■■ ■ I ^^—W ^i^^fc^^H^W^— Pi— ^^a^^ 

on them, cover the pan with a coarse paste, and 
bake. When cold, cut them properly up, lay the 
pieces into pots> and cover with clarified butter. 

ffitd ducks, widgeon, teal, S^c, 

Should be taken up with the gravy in, sprinkle a 
little salt over them before they are taken up, and 
pour some strong gravy over them. Serve with 
shalot sauce. 

Observe, that wild fowl eat better without stuff- 
ing, and that they require much less dressing than 
tame -, and that their fishy taste may be taken off 
by basting them for about ten minutes with salt 
and water. 

To dress plovers. 

Roast the green ones without drawing, and serve 
on a toast as Woodcocks. Gray plovers may be 
either roasted or stewed. 

To roast ortolans. 

Carefully pick and singe, but not draw them, 
roast on a bird-spit^ and cover them with bread- 
crumbs. 

Guinea and pea-fowl. 
Dress as pheasants. 

To jug hare. 

Clean, skigi, and cut it up, then season with all- 
. spice, mace, pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; lay it in 
a jar with some sweet herbs, an onion, and some 
coarse beef, tie the jar securely down, and stand 
it in a saucepan, of water, up to the neck 3 let the 
water boil four or five hours, when enough, thicken 
with flour and butter, and add a giU of port ^Pifine 



USEFUL RECEIPT ROOK. 139 



Stuffing for turkeys, hares, rabbits, ^c. 

Chop very fine, beef suet, parsley, thyme, escha- 
lots, a very small quantity of marjoram, savory, 
basil, and lemon-peel, with grated nutmeg, two 
eggs (or milk), pepper, salt, and an anchovy; 
mix all together with grated bread. 



SAVOURY PIES. 



REMARKS. 



Savoury pies require considerable care, particu- 
larly in respect to, seasoning, which must be always 
done without any fixed rules, agreeable to the taste 
tSf the maker. When intended to eat cold, the use 
of suet must be avoided. Force-meat is a wonderful 
improvement to all meat pies. 

Crtistfor meat pies. 

Take half a quartern of fine flour, one poimd of 
but<i^r, and two eggs, mix it into a paste with warm 
water, and work it to a good consistency. 

^ Eel pie. 

Cut the eels in pieces, each about three inches 
long, seasmi with pepper and ^alt, lay the whole 
in a dish with a few bits of butter, and cover with 
good paste. 

Mackarelpie, 

Mackarel will make a good, pie, done in the 
same manner, and seasoned well : serve with oyster- 
sauce. 




140' DOMESTIC COOKERY, AND 



Cod pie. 

Salt a piece of cod twelve hours, then wash and 

. season it weU, and lay it in your dish with a little 

buttqr, and a gill of strong broth 3 cover it, and 

whoi baked, add some cream, floured butter, and, 

if convenient^ a few oysters. 

Shrimp pie. 

Take a sufficient quantity of picked shrimps, and 
season them with mace, and four cloves, to which 
add four minced anchovies, put some butter in the 
dish, both over and under the shrimps, then add a 
gill of white wine. The crust should be thin, and 
the pie will be enough, when that is. 

Beef'Mieak pie, 
• •. 

peat your steaks well, season With pepper and 
salt, add two table spoonsful of ketchup, put a little 
water in the dish, line the edges with puff paste^ 
and cover the whole with a good crust. 

Veal pie. 

Take the scrag-end of a neck, season it witli 
pepper, salt, nutmeg;, and mace -, cover with a good 
crust, and when baked, pour in some strong gravy. 
A few slices of lean ham baked in this pie, will be 
a material improvement. 

Veal olive pie. 

Cut some thin long collops, beat, and season them 
hiffhly with some Cayenne, and finely. shred shalot, 
roU them tight oyer a layer of force-meat, and £bls- 
ten them with small skewers 3 lay them round and 
round the dish, observing to make the middle the 



■ USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 141 



highest ', fill it nearly with - water, and cover with 
good crust ; when enough, serve with cream, gravy, 
and flour added to it. 

Mutton pie. 

Cut steaks from a loin of mutton, beat them and 
remove some of the fat, season it well, and put a 
little water at the bottom of the dish, cover the 
whole with a pretty thick paste, and bake it. 

Squab pie. 

Slice some onions and pippins, cover the bottom 
of the dish with them, strew some sugar over, 
and lay upon them some mutton chops, seasoned 
with pepper and salt, then another large pippin, 
and so on till the dish is full ; pour in about a pint 
of water, and cover with good paste. 

A breast of veal pie. 

Cut a breast of veal into pieces, season with 
pepper and salt, lay it in the dish, and place upon 
the top of it the yolks of six hard boiled eggs, 
then nearly fill the dish with water, and cover with 
a good crust. This pie will require to be wdl 
baked. 

Calfs'head pie. 

Boil a calf s head about three parts, extract the 
bones, and slice the meat, season with mace, nut- 
meg, pepper, and salt, add some oysters, mush- 
rooms, and force-meat balls> with a. few bits of 
batter, then pour in a mixture of Port-wine, gravy, 
anchovies, and sweet herbs, previously boiled up 
and thickened with floiu^d butter : cover it with 
paste, and bake it. 



I 



14^ DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AND 



Lamb stone pie, 

Blanch and slice your lamb stones and some 
sweetbreads^ season with pepper and salt ; put 
' some sliced artichoke bottoms in the dish on some 
butter> on which lay the meat ; add some rich gra- 
vy^ and close it down. 

Pork pie. 

Steak a loin of pork^ ^dn 'and season with salt, 
pepper^ and nutmeg, lay them in your dish^ and 
pour in a pint and a half of water ^ cover the whole 
wit^ a good crusty and bake it well. Apple-sauce 
is very excellent with this pie. 

Venison Pasty, 

Cut your meat to pieces^ and lay it with fat be- 
tween, put some pepper and salt at the bottom of 
the dish, and some butter, then pack the meat 
nicely in. The venison bones should be boiled 
with some fine old mutton -, put half a pint of this 
gravy cold into the dish, and cover as well as line 
the sides with, a thick crust, but put no qrust under 
the meat. When the pastry is baked, put the re- 
mainder of the gravy in by means of a funnel, and 
shake the dish that it may be mixed. Bake it four 
hours in a slow oven, and when you make your 
pastry, if you are short of fat, it may be supplied 
by some from a fine well hung loin of mutton, 
steqped twenty-four hours in equal parts of. rape- 
vinegar and port-wine. 

An excellent gravy for savoury pies. 

Take some strong gravy, claret, four anchovies, 
an onion, and some sweet herbs, boil these ingre- 



VSBFUL BECEIPl* BOOK. 143 



dients together^ and thicken with fioufed butter, 
when done, pour it into your pies, after they are 
baked. 

Pigeon pie. 

Clean your pigeons very well, cut off the pinions 
and necks, season each with pepper and salt, and 
lay a pieee of fresh butter in each of their bellies ; 
place a good rump steak at the bottom, of the dish^ 
on which lay your birds, placing the necks, pi- 
nions, livers, gizzards, hearts, &c. in the centre, 
cover the whole with a good crust, and bake it 
well. 

Fowl pie. 

Cut a fowl in pieces, lay it in your idish,. season 
it, and add force-meat balls, sliced lemon, four 
ounces of butter, and the yolks of six hard e^gs^ 
cover the whole with a good paste. 

Goose pie. 

Bone a goose, season it well with pepper, and 
mace, lay the meat in your dish, and place on the 
top of it eight ounces of good fresh butter; cover 
with a good crust, and bake it in a slowoven. 

Observe, there is no necessity for boning the 
goose, if inconvement. 

Giblet pie. 

Clean your giblets well, lay them in a stew-pan, 
with the exception of the livers, with a sufiSciency 
of water to cover them, add some whole pepper, 
salt, mace, onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs^ let 
them stew till quite tender * take your didi, place a 
rump-steak at the bottom well seasoned, on which 
lay the stewed giblets and tli« Uvers^ divided into 



Jt 



144 DOMESTIC COOKERY, AND 

jBU :__i__;_j • _ . 

moderate sized pieces -, then strain in the liquor in 
which the giblets, were stewed, cover with good 
paste^ and bake the whole one hour and a half. 

Turkey pie. 

Bone your bird, season it well with pepper and 
salt, fill up the pie with capons, cut into pieces, (or 
rabbits will serve equally well,) lay on some butter, 
and cover it with a good crust. 

Hare pie. 

Piece and break the bones of your hare, lay them 
in your dish, and season with pepper, salt, and force 
meat balls, add some sliced lemon, and hard boiled 
yolks of eggs j cover with a good crust, and bake it 
welL A beef-steak laid at th^ bottom of the dish, 
is a material improvement. 

Minced meat. 

Take four pounds of currants, wash, pick, and 
dry them well, three pounds of raisins of the sun, 
which must be carefully stoned, and chopped small, 
six pounds of finely shred beef-suet, one pound of 
loaf-sugar pounded, four nutmegs, two ounces of 
mace, and two cloves well beaten, eighty pippins, 
cored, pared, and minced small 5 lay the whole of 
the above ingredients into a large pan, and mix 
them well together, adding gradually one pint of 
brandy, and the same quantity of orange- flower 
water : a little candied lemon-peel is a considerable 
improvement 5 when well mixed tie the whole down 
in stone jars, and it will keep good for four manths. 

Minced pies. 

Should be made in small patties, with an excellent 
puff paste, on which the meat should be laijl, and 
when baked, serve with burnt brandy. 




USKFUL RECEIPT BOOK. ]45 



Green-goose pie, 



Bone your birds^ and singe them nicely^ seasaa 
highly with salt, pepper, mace, and allspice, iay 
them in your dish, and cover with a good crust. 

Potatoe pie. 

Mesh your potatoes well, with some cream and 
butter, then take some fine rump steaks, and place 
alternate layers in your dish of meat and potatoes 5 
cover with a good paste. 



DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING PUDDINGS 



REMARKS. 



The outside of puddings have very frequently a. 
disagreeable taste, which may be prevented by ob- 
serving that your cloth is perfectly clean, then dip it 
in warm water, and flour it well. 

When you design to bake puddings, remember . 
to butter the dish well before you lay in your pud- 
ding, and the same, if boiled in any one. Observe 
that a batter-pudding should always be tied very 
close, a bread pudding, on the contrary, loose. 

Puddings should be put into boiling water, and 
frequently removed to prevent them from sticking to 
the pot. The moment the puddings that are boiled 
in a cloth are taken from the pot, they should be 
just dipped into cold water, which will prevent the* 
cloth from sticking. " " ' 



<» 




14€ DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AND 

\f vou boil in a bason, butter it^ and boil tb« 
pudding in plenty of water. Turn it often, and 
when enough, take it up in the bason, and let it stand 
a few minutes to cool. Then untie the string, 
clap the cloth round the bason, lay your dish over 
it^ and turn the pudding out ; then take oflF the 
bason and cloth very carefully, light puddings being 
apt to break. When you make batter-puddings, 
first mix the flour well with a little milk, tben'put 
in the ingredients by degrees, and it wiU be quite 
smooth 5 but for a plain batter-pudding, the best 
way is to strain it through a^ coarse hair-sieve, 
that it may neither have lumps, nor the treadles of 
the eggs; and for all other puddings strain the 
eggs when you beat them. Bread and custard 
puddings for baking, require time and a moderate 
oven to raise them ; batter and rice puddings a quick 
oven. 

Two spoonsful of snow will supply the place of 
one eg^, and be equally good. Small beer, or bottled 
ale, will also answer the same purpose. The yolks 
and whites of eggs should be each well beaten in a 
separate bason. 

A quaking pudding. 

Grate a penny loaf, to which add two spoonsful 
of rice flour, and eight eggs well beaten, put the 
whole in a quart of new milk, with a little nutmeg, 
and rose water, tie it up, boil it one hour, and serve 
it with melted butter, white wine, and sugar. 

Baiter pudding. 

Take four spoonsful of flour, one pint of new 
milk, four eggs well beaten, a little grated nutmeff, 
ginger, and s^t, mix the whole together, tie it ui 
a, cloth, ar i boil one hour : serve with melted butter, 
wine, and sugar. 




USEFUL BBOEIPT BOOK. 147 



Batter-pudding without eggs. 

Mix six spoonsful of flour with a little, milk, a 
tea-spoonful of salt, two tea-spoonsfiil of beaten 
ginger^ and two of the tincture of saffron. Mix it 
with near a quart of milk, and boil it an hour. 
Fruit may be added. 

Boiled plum or Christmas pudding. 

' Cut a pound of beef-suet extremely fine, to which 
add a pound of raisins well stoned, half a pound of 
currants, picked, cleaned, and dried ; some nutmeg, 
two spoonsful of brandy, two oimces of candled 
lemon-peel, and one ounce of candied orange-peci 
shred fine, six well beaten eggs, a gill of cream, and 
seven or eight table-spoonsful of flour, mix them 
well, and boil it four hours j when done, serve with 
melted butter and grated sugar. 

Oxford pudding. 

A quarter of a pound of biscuits grated, a quarter 
of a pound of currants clean washed and picked, a 
quarter of a pound of suet shred small, half a large 
spoonful of powdered sugar, some grated nutmeg, 
mince it all well together, then take the yolks 
of eggs, and make it up into balls as big as 
turkeys' eggs, fry them in fresh butter of a fine 
light brown. 

Custard pudding. 

Take two spoonsful of flour, six eggs w;ell beaten, 
half a grated nutmeg, some sugar, a little salt, add 
a tea-spoonfiil of rose-water, then mix the whole 
in a pint of cream, boil it in a cloth thirty mi- 
nutes ; serve with melted butter and sifted siurar. 



148 DOMESTIC COOKERY, AND 



Suet-pudding 

Take a pint of milk, two eggs well beaten, half 
a pound of finely chopped suet, a tea-spoonful of 
powdered ginger, and the same quantity of salt, 
add flour gradually till you have made it into a 
pretty thick batter, then let it boil two hours, and 
serve with melted butter. 

Beef-steak pudding. 

Make a good crust roll it out half an inch thick, 
and lay your steaks^ well seasoned, upon it, then 
roll them up in it, and tie the whole in a cloth. 
This pudding will take four hours boiling. 

Pigeon pudding 
Is excellent made exactly as the above. 

Baked apple pudding. 

Take six large apples, peel and. quarter them, 
observing to cut out the core, boil them tender, 
with the rind of one lemon, but with the least pos- 
sible water, then beat them in a mortar quite fine, 
and add the crumb of a penny loaf, six ounces of 
butter previously melted, the yolks of four and 
whites of two eggs^ to which add the juice of one 
lemon, and sugar agreeable to taste, beat the whole 
well together, and lay it in a dish with paste, to 
turn out, when baked. 

An apple-pudding. 

Make a good puff paste, roll it out, pare your 
fruit and core it, throw in some sugar as you fill 
the crust, and close the whole up, tie it up in a 
cloth, and boil it for two hours, if not very large, 
but if large, four. When enough, cut a bit of crust 
out of the top, lay in butter and sugar, (or cream. 



USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. ]4'9 

■ ■ t . . - ■ 

if convenient, instead of butter) then replace tlie 
crust, and send it to table hot, 

Damson, pear, currant, cherry, plum, and apri- 
cot puddings may be all made in the same manner. 

Apple dumplings. 

Pare your apples, (but not core them, as the 
pips give a fine flavour,) make some good paste, 
roll it moderately thin, and wrap it round, each 
apple separately, with two cloves in each, tie each 
in a piece of ckvth, and put them in boiling water ^ 
boil near one hour, and serve them with melted 
butter, or a slice of butter and sugar. 

Hunters* pudding. 

Take a poimd of cleaned currants, the' same 
quantity of flow*, of suet, and of stoned and cut 
raisins, the rind of half a lemon finely shred, eight 
powdered Jamaica pepper corns, a gill of brandy, 
four eggs, and a little salt 3 mix the above ingre- 
dients well together, then add a sufliciency of milk 
to make the whole of due consistency j boil it in 
a melon-mould eight hours, and serve with sweet 
sauce. 

This pudding wiU be good for six months, if 
preserved in the same cloth in which it was boiled> 
(when cold,) and tied carefully round with paper 
to exclude the dust. When any of it is required 
for use, cut it off, and boil it in a doth for rather 
more than an hour. 

Common plum^pudding^ 

Take a pound of flour, a pound of shred suet, 
and a pound of currants, one egg, beaten up in 
milk,^ome lemon and spice to fancy, and a glpss 
of brandy. This pudding will be very good, and 
requires to bp boiled thee or fpur hours. 

o S 




ISO DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AND 

Bread pudding. 

Melt four ounces of fresh butter in a pint of 
cream^ or new milk^ stir it continually till melted, 
then throw in as much grated white bread as will 
make it pretty lights add some nutmegs a little 
rose-water, four eggs, a few grains of salt, and 
some sugar. It may then be either baked or boiled 
for thirty minutes -, in the latter case, tie it in a 
cloth 5 serve with melted butter and sugar. 

A cheap hread-puddir^. 

Take some pieces of stale dry bread, and soak 
them weU in hot water, then press out the water, 
and wash the bread, add a little powdered ginger, 
nutmeg, salt, sugar, and a few well-picked cur- 
rants, mix the whole well together, lay it in a but- 
tered pan, with a few bits of butter on the top ; 
bake it in a moderate oven, and it is excellent 
either hot or cold. A spoonful of rose-water will 
be an improvement. 

Bread and butter pudding. 

Take slices of bread and butter, and lay them 
f one upon another in a dish, with currants (well 

^ cleaned and picked) between every slice, and a few 

i thin slices of citron ; then pour o^er some new 

■ milk, mixed with three eggs, a spoonful of rose- 

« water, let it remain two hours to soak, frequently 

i lading it over that the bread may be well soaked, 

■^ after which, put a paste round the edge of the dish, 

and bake the whole till done. 

A plain hakrd pudding. 

Boil a pint of new milk, then stir in flour till 
thick, add three ounces of sugar, four ounces of 




USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 151 

I 

butter, three eggs, with two of the whites, a little 
grated nutmeg, and a little salt, mix the whole well 
together, lay it in a buttered dish, and let it bake 
thirty minutes. 

Or, if preferred, the same ingredients may be 
boiled for the same time, and served with melted 
butter, being equally good either way. 

Sago pudding. 

Boil . a pint of new milk, with three spoonsful of 
sago, weU cleaned and picked, cinnamon, lemon, 
nutmeg, and sugar, according to taste, and mix in 
three eggs 5 lay a puff paste round the edge of the 
dish, and bake the whole slowly. 

Transparent pudding. 

Beat four eggs very well, put them in a stewpan 
with four ounces of finely powdered sugar, some 
nutmeg, and a quarter of a pound of butter, set the 
whole on the fire, and stir it till it thickens, then 
pour it into a bason to cool 3 line the edge of your 
dish with a fine puff-paste, pour in your pudding, 
and bake it in an oven moderately hot 

Baked rice-pudding. 

Swell the rice over the fire, with a little milk and 
water, then add more mflk, eggs, sugar, allspice, 
and lemon-peel, bake it in , a deep dish with a puff- 
paste edge. 

Almond pudding. 

Blanch and beat a pound of sweet almonds with 
two spoonsful of rose-water, and four of Madeira, 
then add eight ounces of melted butter, the yolks 
of five, and the whites of two eggs, four ounces of 
pounded sugar, one quart of cream, one spoonful 



152 DOMXSTIC COOKBRY^ AND 

of flour^ and three of white bread crumbs ; mix the 
whole well together, and let it boil thirty minutes , 
or it may be baked the same time. 

Millet pudding. 

Wash and pick clean half a pound of millet seed, 
put to it half a pound of sugar, a whole nutmeg 
grated> and three quarts of mUk, and break in half 
a pound of fresh butter. 3utter the dish^ pour it 
into it^ and send it to the oven. 

Curd puddings. 

Curd a gallon of milk, and press off the whey, 
then rub the curd through a sieve, add half a pound 
of butter, the crumb of a two-penny loaf, a nutmeg 
grated, a gill of cream, and some sugar, butter 
small cups, and three parts fill them. Be care^ in 
baking them. 

Yorkshire pudding. 

Take A pint of new milk, four spoonsful of flour, 
and two well beaten eggs, mix the whole well 
togetha*, pour it into a square buttered pan, and 
lay it imder your roasting meat : when one side is 
sttfficiently brown, turn the other upwards. Serve 
. it out into square pieces. 

Oxford dumplings. 

Take of currants and shred suet, eight ounces 
each, grated bread four ounces, four spoonsful of 
flour, a considerable quantity of grated lemon-peel, 
a little fHiffflfMiid powdered pimento, mix it with 
four egg8> and a sufficiency of milk, into twelve 
dumpUngs, and fry them of a fine yellow brown. 
Serve with sweet sauce. 







UtKFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 153 



Mutton pudding. 

Season some slices from the leg; well^ with pep- 
per and salt, then lay them in a bason lined with 
good suet-crust, and add some shred onion, shalot^ 
and one spoonfull of ketchup, close it well, tie it in 
a cloth, and boil it sufficiently. 

A quick-made pudding. 

Take flour and suet, each four ounces, two eggs, 
a gill of new milk, two ounces of raisins, and the 
same quantity of currants, mix the whole well to- 
gether, and let it boil thirty minutes, with the cover- 
of the pot on 

Ground rice pudding. 

Boil three large spoonsfull in a quart of milk, 
with lemon-peel and cinnamon, when cold, add 
nutmeg, sugar, and four well beaten eggs j bake 
with a pufF crust round the edge of the dish. 

A boiled rice pudding. 

Tie a quarter of a pound of rice in a cloth, but 
give it room for swelling. Boil it an hour, then 
take it up, untie it, and with a spoon stir in a 
quarter of a pound of butter. Grate some nutmeg, 
and sweeten it to the palate. Then tie it up close, 
and boil it another hour. Then take it up, tiu-n it 
into the dish, and pour over it melted butter. 

Or, take a quarter of a pound of rice, and half 
a pound of raisins, and tie them in a cloth ; but 
give the rice a good deal of room to swell. Boil it 
two hours, and when enough, turn it into the dish, 
and pour melted butter and sugar over it, with a 
little nutmeg. 




'» 



154 DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AND 



Yetut dumplings. 

Mix a light dough with yeast and milk, in th^ 
same manner as for bread, lay it before the fire, 
and when sufficiently risen, make your dough into 
moderate sii.\l balls, and throw them into boiling 
watery twenty, or thirty minutes at the farthest 
will do them ; you may ascertain when enough, by 
sticking in a fork ; if it comes out dean^ they are 
done. Eat them with' either salt^ sugar, butter, 
or meat. 

Baker s dough will do for these dumplings. 

Pancakes. 

Take eggs, flour, and milk, with which make a 
light batter, add nutmeg, ginger, and salt, fry 
them in plenty of hot lard. Serve with lemon- 
juice and powdered loaf sugar. Snow will serve 
instead of eggs, during the winter, when they are 
generally very dear. 

Fritters. 

Prepare your batter as above, and drop a small 
quantity of it in your pan, then lay some sUced fruit 
in the centre, and fry it sufficiently. Fruits and 
sweetmeats of every kind, may be used for this 
purpose. 

Backings. 

Mix six ounces of buck-wheat flour, with half 
a pint of warm milk and two spoonsfull of yeast, 
place it before the fire about an hour to let it rise ', 
then mix eight eggs well beaten, and as much milk 
as will make the batter the usual thickness for pan- 
cakes 'y then fry them in the same manner. 



USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 155. 



PASTRY AND CONFECTIONARY. 



Puff-paste, 

Take an equal quantity of butter and finie flour, 
mix a little of the butter with the flour^ and wet it 
with as little water as will suffice to make it into a 
stiff paste, roll it out, and lay the butter, in slices^ 
all over it, turn in the ends, and roll it thin ; do this 
twice, and touch it as little as possible. This paste 
should be baked in a quick oven. 

A paste less rich may be made with two pounds 
of flour, and half a pound of butter : rub them 
well together, and mix into a paste, with a little 
water and two well beaten eggs 3 roll and fold it 
four times. 

Raised crust for custards or fruit. 

Put eight ounces of butter into a saucepan with 
water, and when it boils, add as much flour as you 
judge sufficient, knead it till smooth -, then put it 
under a pan to soak till near eold ; when it is flt to 
be used. 

Excellent short crust. 

Take one pound of flour, and twelve ounces of 
butter, rub it together, and mix into a stiff paste, 
with as little water as ^ssible, beat it well, and 
roll it thin 3 bake in a moderate oven^ 

Cheesecakes. 

Take two quarts of new milk, set it as for cheese, 
and gently whey it, then break it in a mortar, put 
to it the yolks of three, and ttaie whites of two egg», 
sweeten to taste, and add some nutmeg, rose-water^ 



\ 




156 DOM£STIC f;OOK£RYj AND 

and^^k^ mix the whole together : set a pint of 
creafti over the fire^ and make it into a hasty pud- 
dings then mix all the ingredients well together; 
fin your patty-pans^ and put them immediately 
into the oven 5 when they rise well up, they are 
enough. 

Rice cheesecakes. 

Take eight ounces of ground rice, and boil it in 
two quarts of milk^ with a little whole cinnamon, 
till it be of a good thickness, then pour it into a 
pan, and add sik ounces of fresh butter; let it 
stand covered till it is cold, and then put in six 
eggs, (omitting the whites) and eight ounces of 
currants, some nutmeg and sugar, according to 
taste. 

A plum^cake. 

Take a pound and a half of flour, a little ale 
yeast, half a pint of milk, eight ounces of sugar, 
the same quantity of butter, and a small portion 
of alL^ice, make it into a dough before you add 
the plums, of which you may put in as many as 
you please. 

A pound seed cake. 

Take of flour, butter, afld powdered sugar, one 
pound each, eight yolks and four whites of eggs, 
and as many caraway seeds as you think proper ; 
first beat up the butter to a cream, observing to 
beat it one way, then gradually beat in your eggs, 
sugar, and flour ; bake it in a warm oven for an 
hour and a quarter. Observe, it must be placed in 
a tin, covered at the bottom and sides with buttered 
paper. 







USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 157 



Queeti-cakes. 

Take one pound of fine flour, three quarters of a 
pound of butter, the yolks of three eggs, three 
quarters of a poimd of powdered sugar, a little 
rose-water, one nutmeg, and a pound of ciurants ; 
beat your butter with your hand till it is thin, dry 
your flour well, put into it your sugar and nutmeg, 
and add the whole to your butter^ mix them well, 
then add your currants, put them in your tins, and 
bake in a moderate oven, fifteen minutes. 

Caraway cakes. 

Take two pounds of flour, to which add the same 
quantity of very fresh butter, (if possible without- 
salt,) sixteen spoonsful of yeast, eight of rose- 
water, the yolks of six eggs, caraway seeds to taste, 
and eight ounces of powdered sugar, ?aiead all into 
a paste 3 shape it according to fancy, and bake it 
suffidently. 

Ratafia cakes. 

Take eight ounces of bitter almonds, blanch and 
beat them fine, while beating them, add the whites 
of eight eggs, one at a time, and mix it up with 
sifted sugar to a light paste 5 roll the cakes, and lay 
them on wafer-paper, or tin plates, make the paste 
so light as to take it up with a spoon, then bake in 
a quick oven. 

Gingerbread. 

Take three pounds of treacle, four beaten eggs^ 
a pound of brown sugar, two ounces of finely 
powdered ginger, and of cloves, mace, and nutmegs^ 
a quarter of an ounce each, and of fine coriander 
and caraway seeds, one ounce each, and four pounds 
of meked butter^ paix the whole together, and add 




15b DOMESTIC COOKERY^ A.ND 

as much flour as will knead it into a very stiff paste, 
roll it out^ cut it into what form you please^ and 
bake it in a very quick oven. 

# 

Rhubarb tarU, 

Take your rhubarb, peel and slice it^ sweeten it 
to taste^ and make as a gooseberry tart. These tarts 
are very delicious. 

* Fme tart paute. 

Take of flour^ loaf sugar, and butter^ a pound 
each, work it up together, but do not roll it ; then 
beat it well with the rolling-pin, for half an hour, 
folding it up and beating it out again ; then roll out 
little pieces, as you want, for your tarts. 

Calves* feet jelly. 

Take a set of feet, extract the long bone, split 
each 'foot, and take ofut the fat, boil them in six 
quarts of water, with half an ounce of hartshorn 
shavings, till it becomes a jelly } then strain it, and 
scum off the fat, add the whites of twelve eggs 
well beaten, sugar enough to sweeten it, the juice 
of six lemons, and a pint of white wine, stir the 
whole together over a stove till it boils, then strain 
it through a jelly-bag, and let h run on the lemon- 
peel to give it a fine colour and flavour. 

Red or white currant jelly ^ 

Strip off yoiu" Aniit, and put it in a jug, stand the 
jug in a kettle of water, and let it boil one hour, 
then throw your currants^ into a fine sieve, and press 
out aU the juice, to every pint of which add one 
pound of loaf sugary put it in your preserving- 
pan over a clear fire, and stir it till it becomes a 
ielly, . observing to scum it carefully; whendoae. 




JSEFU^ RECEfPT BOOK. 159 



pour it into glasses^ and when cold^ lay some brandy- 
paper on the top: then cover with white paper^ 
pricked full of holes. 

Black currant jelly 
Is made the same as red cmrant jelly. 

Black currant paste. 

Take the cmrants just as they come to market^ 
put them in an earthen jar or pan^ in a baker's oven 
for six hours^ then pulp them through a fine hair 
sieve ; put the pulp into your preserving pan^ and 
stir it on a slow fire till it is very stiff : add pow- 
dered lump sugar according to your palate 3 stir it a 
few minutes on the fire^ and lay it on tin plates to 
dry. 

Hartshorn jelly. 

Take half a pound of hartshorn-shavings^ and put 
them into three quarts of water^ and boil it over a 
gentle fire in an earthen pan till two parts are 
wasted^ strain off the remaining liquor 3 then add 
the following ingredients : six . ounces of white 
81^-candy powder, a quarter of a pint of moun- 
tain wine, and one ounce of lemon-juice, then boil 
it all together over a gentle fire to the consistence 
of a jelly. 

BUmonge, 

Take equal quantities of dear hartshorn and 
ealves-feet jelly, make it sweet, add some orange- 
flower and rose-water, a little white wine, and the 
juice of an orange 3 then blanch some sweet al- 
monds, and pound them well, adding gradually a 
little rose-water, then add as much of this to the 
blomonge as wiU turn it white ; strain it well, stir 
all together till it jellies 3 then pour it in your 
jonjfvmio cool. 



ISO DOMBSTIC COOKERY^ AND 



A 



Everlasting syllabubs. 

Take three quarts of thick cream^ a quart of 
Rhenish wine, a pint of sack, six lemons, two pounds 
of the best loaf sugar, which must be well beaten, 
sifted, and put to the cream ; grate off the yellow 
rind of six lemons, put that in, and squeeze the 
juice of six lemons into your wine ; then put that 
to the cream, and beat the whole together with a 
spoon^ and till your glasses. 

Custard, 

Take a pint of new milk, the yolks of three eggs 
beat fine and strained, a little nutmeg, rose-water, 
and a bitter almond or two; either bake or boil 
them. 

Or, 

Take a quart of cream, a stick of cinnamon, three 
or four laurel leaves, and some large mAce, boil 
them all together, and take twelve eggs, beat them 
well together, sweeten them, and put them in your 
pan, h&e or boil them^ observing to stir them all 
one way till properly thick. 

Junkets. 

Take a pint of new milk and half a pint of cream, 
put them together warm, with a spoonful of rennet, 
and cover them with a cloth wrung out of cold 
water -, gather your curd, and put it in rushes till the 
whey has run out, and serve it either with or with- 
out cream, with sugar and nutmeg. 

Ice. 

Put in a pail of water one ounce of sal ammoniac, 
and it will all turn to ice. 



176£FUL RECEIPT BOOK. 16] 

i r' ' ■ 

A Hoaftng island. 

Take a pint of thick cream, sweeten with Jine 
sugar, grate in the peel of one lemon, and add a gill 
of sweet whit^ wine, whisk it well till you have 
raised a good froth 3 then pour a pint of thick cream 
into a China dish 5 take one French roll, slice it thin, 
and lay it over the cream as lightly as possible ^ then 
a layer of clear calves-feet jelly, or currant jelly 5 
then whip up your cream, and lay on the froth as 
high as you can, and what remains pour into the 
bottom of the dish. Garnish the rim with sweet- 
meats. 

, Macaroons. 

Take half a pound of almonds, blanch them and 
throw them into cold water, dry them in a cloth, 
pound them in a mortar, and moisten them with the 
white of an egg, then take eight ounces of pow- 
dered sugar, the whites of two eggs, and a little 
milk, beat the whole wdl together, shape them 
round upon thin paper with a spoon, and bake them 
on tin plates. 

Orgeat 

Pound three oimces of sweet, and six single bitter 
almonds, add one pint of water, strain it through a 
lawn sieve, and then add two table-spoonsfid of 
orange-flower water. 

Apple-pie, 

Pare and core the fruit, lay it iii your dish, and 
sprinkle some sugar between every layer, when full, 
put in the juice of one lemon, a little of the peel 
finely shred, and a few cloves^ cover with a good 
paste. 

Cherry-pie. 

Having made a good crust, lay a little of it roimd 
the sides of the diah, and throw some sugar at the 

pS 



# 



:^ 



462 DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AND 

■-■.■- I ■ ■. ♦ 

bottom. Then lay in4he firuit^ and some si^ar at 
the top^ A few red currants must be put along with 
the cherries, or it will be without juice. Then put 
on the crusty and bake it in a slack oven. A plum- 
pie^ or a gooseberry-pie^ may be made in the same 
manner. A custard eats well with a gooseberry- 
pie. 

Icing for tarts. 

' Beat the yolks of two eggs and some melted but- 
ter together^ lay it over the tarts with a feather^ and 
then sift some sugar upon them. 

Pippin-tarts, 

Pare thin four Seville oranges, boil the peel ten- 
der, and mince it extremely fine, pare and core 
forty pippins^ lay them in a stew-pan with as little 
water as possible ; when half done, throw in a pound 
of sugar, the orange-peel and juice, and boil the 
whole tiU pretty thick ^ when cold, put it in patty-^ 
pans lined with paste, to turn out and be eaten. colicL 

Apple-puffs. 

Pare and bake the fruit, when cold mix the pulp 
of the apple with sugar and shred lemon-peel, lay 
it in thin paste, and bake it in a quick oven : twenty 
minutes will do thiem. Orange or quince marmalade 
is a great improvement to apples, in whatever man- 
ner they are used. 

Preserved quinces to add to tarts. 

Pare and core the fruit, then slice it, and boil till 
soft ; to every four pounds of fruit, put three pounds 
of sugar, and boil the whole till it acquires a suf- 
ficient consistency. A little of this in apple-pies, 
tarts, &c. is truly excellent. 

Codlin-tart, 
Scald the fruit, then take off the skin^ and lay 



*■ •■ j«-». --■ — •■■■ ■^ *•■ 



USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 163 

them whole in a dish, with a little of the water in 
which the apples were boiled 3 strew them over with 
Imnp sugar^ and when cold^ put a paste round the 
edges^ and cover with a good crust. 

Orange- tart. 

Squeeze^ pulp> and boil four Seville oranges^ 
and double their weight of sugar^ and beat them 
thoroughly together^ then add an ounce of fresh' 
butter 3 line a shallow dish with a fine puff-crusty 
and lay in your orange-paste. 

Lemon mince-pie. 

Squeeze two lemons^ boil the rinds till tender 
enough to beat them into a mesh, to which add six 
minced apples^ and eight ounces of suetj, a pound of 
currants, half a pound of sugar, and the juice of the 
lemons, with candied fruit as for other pies, make a 
short crust, and fill the patty-pans as usual. 

L^ht paste. 

Beat the white of an egg to a froth, then add as 
much water as will make twelve ounces of fiour into 
a stiff paste ; roll it very thin, and lay five ounces of 
butter on it in smaU bits, dredge it, and roll it up 
tight : do this three times. 

Oyster-patties, 

Line your patty-pans with fine puff-paste, and 
cover with the same, observing to put a bit of bread 
in each, to keep them hollow while baking, and 
against they are baked have the following .ready to 
fill with: take off the beards of oysters, cut the 
other parts into pieces, and put them in a small 
saucepan, with some nutmeg, white pepper, salt, 
finely shred lemon-peel^ a little cream^ and some of 




164 DOMfifiTIC COOKERY^ AND 

their own liquor^ let the whol^ simmer a few 
minutes^ and thea fill. 

Lobster-patties may be made in the same man- 
ner. 

SnoW'bails, 

Swell rice in milk^ strain it, and lay it round 
some cored apples, put a bit of cinnanion, lemon- 
peel, and* a dove, in each; then tie them up in a 
cloth, and boil them well. 

Gooseberrif or -^pple trifle. 

Scald a sufficient quantity of fruit, and pulp it 
through a sieve, add sugar agreeable to tasljl^ inakc 
a thick layer of this at the bottom of "^St dish : 
mix a pint of milk, a pint of cream, and**the yolks 
of two eggs ; scald it over the fire, observing to stir 
it; add a small quantity of sugar, and let it get cold; 
'then lay it over the apples or gooseberries with a 
spoon, and put on the whole a whip made the day 
before. 

If you use apples, add the rind of a lemon grated. 

Cake trifle. 

Bake a rice-cake in a mould ; when cold^ cut it 
round a little way from the edge with a sharp knife^ 
observing not to perforate the bottom; put in a rich 
custard, and some raspberry jam^ and then put on a 
high whip. 

Gooseberry-fool. 

Stand your fruity mixed with Lisbon sugar^ in a 
jar on a stove with a gill of water; when soft, pulp 
it thrpugh a cullender ; then have ready a sufficiency 
of milk and cream, or in lieu of the latter an egg, 
boiled together, but cold before used, sweeten it 
well, and stir in the fruit gradually. 

Apples may be done in the same manner^ 




USEFUL RECEIPT BO >Iv; 165 



. Burnt cream. 

-Make a rich custard without sugar, boiling lemon- 
peel in it ; when cold, sift a quantity of sugar over 
it, and brown the top with a salamander. 

Ratafia cream. 

Boil a quart of cream with six laurel or nectarine 
leaves, strain it^ when cold, add the yolks of six 
eggs beaten and strained, sugar, and a gill of 
brandy ; stir the whole quick into it, then scald till 
fiufiiciently tliick, and observe to stir it continually. 

Lemon or Orange cream. 

Take a quart of thick cream, put it on the fire, 
observing to stir it continually j let it simmer j 
sweeten with the finest white sugar, keep it stirring 
till it is pretty cool. Then add the juice of one 
lemon, with the peel squeezed in, to give it a fine 
bitter taste : then stir it till cold, after which stir it 
up high to bring a ftotli in the dish. 

Remember this should be made early in the morn- 
ing, to be ready for dinner. 

Snow cream. 

To a quart of cream add the whites of three eg^s 
well beaten, a little sweet wine, and sugar to taste, 
whip it to a froth, and serve in a dish. 

Raspberry cream. 

Take the whites of twelve eggs, and twelve 
spoonsfull of raspberry wash, put them into an 
earthen pan, and beat them weU till it comes to a 
cream ; then fill yoiu: glasses. 

Ice creams. 

Mix the juice of fruits with as much sugar as will 
be required before you add the cream. 



166 DOMESTIC COOKERY, AND 

VarioiLs colourings for ices, jellies, creams, 8fc. 

A tincture made by pouring hot water over some 
sliced beet-root will give a beautiful red. Or, boil 
a small quantity of cochineal finely powdered, with 
a dranpi of cream of tartar to half a pint of water ; to 
which add, when boiling, a very little bit of alum. 

For white, use almond paste or cream. 

For yellow, tincture of saffron. ' 

For green, the expressed juice of spinach leaves. 

A froth to set on cream, custards, ^c. 

Sweeten a pound of the pulp of damsons, add to 
it the whites of eight eggs, well beaten, and beat the 
whole till it will stand as high as you d^oose. 

To prepare ice for iceing. 

Break four pounds of ice almost to powder, and 
throw two handsfiill of salt amongst it. (Do this in 
the coldest part of the house.) The ice and salt 
being in a bucket, put your cream into an ice-pot, 
and cover it. Immerse it in the ice, and draw that 
round the pot. In a few minutes, put a spoon in, 
and stir it well, moving the ice round the edges to 
the centre. Observe, there should be ^oles in the 
bucket to let off the water as the ice thaws. 

Ice-water, 

Rub some sugar on lemon or orange peel to give 
a flavour to the water, then squeeze the juice on its 
own peel, and add a sufficiency of sugar and water, 
strain the whole, and put it in the ice-pot. 

Or the water may be mixed with the strained 
juice of any kind of fruit, agreeable to taste. 

To scald codlins. 

Wrap each in a vine leaf, and pack them close in 
a saucepan, when full, pour as much water in as 



USIiFLL RKCEIPT BOOK. 167 



will cover them^ set them over a fire, and let them 
simmer slowly, till done enough to take the skin off 
wlien cold. 

Serve with cream^ ,or .custard, and powdei:ed 
sugary some of the latter should be strev^ftd over 
thgm. 

Black caps. 

Half and core the largest apples you can pro- 
cure, lay them in a shallow pan, and strew some 
white sugar over them 5 then bo^ a glass of wine, 
and the same quantity of water, with some sugar, 

for sauqe. 

.'J 

To stew pears. 

Take twelve pears, peel and quarter six of them, 
peel the others, but do not cut them, lay them in 
a deep earthem pot with a few cloves, a piece of 
lemon-peel, a gill or more of red wine, and half a 
pound of fine sugar 5 cover them close with coarse 
brown paper, and bake them till enough. Serve 
them either hot or cold. 

A little pounded cochineal will make them of a 
beautiful colour. 

Syllabub. 

Put three <*pints of wine, either port or white, 
into a bowl, with some grated nutmeg, and plenty 
of sugar, then milk into it a gallon of milk frothed 
up. 

Butter to serve as a little dish. 

Roll butter in various forms, and mark it with a 
tea-spoon; or roll it with crimping rollers, or work 
it through a cullender. 

Currant jam, black, red, or white. 
Pick your fruit from the stalks and bruise it. To 



'Jl-^.^' 



m 



168 DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AND 

every pound of it^ put twelve ounces of loaf sugar, 
stir it weU^ and boil it thirty minutes. 

Raspberry jam. 

Weigh equal quantities of fruit and loaf sugar^ 
put the fruit into your preserving pan, boll and 
break it, stir it continualLy, and let it bciil quickly 3 
when most of the juice is wasted, add the sugar, 
and simmer thirty minutes. 

This method j/s greatly superior to the common 
mode. 

To preserve strawberries whole. 

Take of the pine, or China strawberries, as many 
as you may want for your use, or as many as yoiu* 
preserving pan will conveniently do at once 3 cleanse 
them from the stalk and lay them in your preserv- 
ing pan 3 then boil clarified sugar till it snaps 3 pour 
upon them as much as will cover them 3 then boil 
them several minutes, let them stand till the next 
day, then drain them from the syrupy boil the 
syrup, adding as much clarified sugar as will cover 
them; boil them till it blows 3 then put in your 
strawberries, boil them five minutes, let them stand 
till cold, then put them in your jars. 

To preserve raspberries whole. 

Take the raspberries with the stalks on or off, as 
you may fancy them 3 let them be quite sound 3 put 
them in your preserving pan 3 boO till it sn^ps as 
much clarified sugar as wiU cover them 3 then put 
them on a slow fire, and let them be gently boiled, 
the next day drain them from the syrup 3 boil the 
syrup till it blows 3 then put in your raspberries ; 
inake them scalding hot, but do not let them boiL 
When cold, put them in your jars. 




USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 169 



Apple marmalade. 

Scald them tiU they will pulp from the core, then 
take an equal weight of sugar in large lumps, dip 
them in water, and boil till it can be well skimmed, 
and becomes a thick syrup, then throw in the pulp, 
and let it simmer fifteen minutes over a quick fire. 
A very little grated lemon-peel will improve it. 

Quince marmalade. 

Quarter your quinces ; boil them till very tender, 
pulp them through a fine hair sieve 3 to every pound 
of pulp, take one pound of powdered lump' sugar ; 
let it boil to the consistence of raspberry jam} then 
put it into pots. 

To make orange marmalade. 

Take Sevil 'oranges, according to the quantity you 
propose to make ^ half them and squeeze th^ juice 
from them 3 then cut out the pulp, leaving the rind 
very thin 5; then shred the rind very finej boil it 
till very tender, boil the pulp very soft, and rub it 
through a fine hair sieve -, then mix the juice, pulp, 
and chips together ; and to every pound add one 
pint of clarified sugar. Boil the sugar till it snaps, 
then add the other ingredients. Let them boil ten 
minutes, and put it into pots. 

Dried apples. 

Put them in a cool oven six or seven times, and 
gradually flatten them when soft enough to bear it 
without breaking. The oven must not be too hot, 
and should at first be very cool. Tart apples are 
the best for this purpose. 

Ta preserve gooseberries green. 

Take the gooseberries in the same state as for 
b«»ltling, making a slight opening at the smdl end; 



170 DOMESTIC COOKERY, AND 

make some water scalding hot, put the gooseberries 
into it, take them off the fire and cover thefn with 
common white paper, let them stand in the same 
water two days j then put them in yoiu* preserving 
pan and cover them with clarified sugar, let them 
stand four or five days j then put them on the fire 
and give them a gentle boil. The next day, drain 
them from the sugar, put them in your jar, boil the 
sugar till it blows, adding as much as will cover 
them ; and they are fit for immediate use. 

Note. — ^The sugar must be boiled till it blows j 
and it may be here necessary to observe what is 
meant by blowing : while the sugar is boiling, put 
in your scummer, let th6 sugar drain from it j then 
blow forcibly with your mouth ; and if the sugar 
bladders on the opposite side of the scummer, it is 
sufficiently strong. 

Gooseberry hops j the same as the gooseberries. 

To candy any sort offruU. 

When finished in the syrup, that is, after the fruit 
has been preserved, put a layer of any kind into a 
sieve, and dip it- suddenly into hot water to take 
off the syrup hanging about it. Then lay it on a 
napkin before the fire to drain, and then do some 
more in the sieve. When the fruit is sufficiently 
drained, sift plenty of double refined sugar over it 
till it becomes quite white. Then set it on the 
shallow end of sieves in a slightly warm oven, and 
turn it three or four times. It must not be suffered 
to get cold till quite dry. 

To clarify sugar. 

Break your sugar into large limips, and to every 
pound, put half a pint of water, set it over the fire 
with the white of an egg well whipt, let it boil, and 



USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. I7I 

when ready to run over, check it with a little cold 
water, when it rises again, take it off the fire, and 
set it by in the pan for twenty minutes^ then take 
the scum gently off, and pour the syrup into a ves- 
sel very quickly from the sedim^t. 

Directions how to prove sugar by the snap. 

While your clarified sugar is boiling for use, take 
the stem of a tobacco pipe and some cold water, and 
when the sugar has boiled to a tolerable consistence, 
dip the pipe in the water, then in the sugar> about 
the depth of an inch, then again in the water ; and 
the sugar that adheres to the pipe will puU off} dip 
it in tiie water, and if strong enough, it will snap 
like glass. 

. To preserve green gages. 

Take the gages a little under ripe j prick them 
well all over with a small fork 5 put them in cold 
water as you do them ; then put them on the fire 5 
scald them till they are soft, taking care not to let 
the water boil; let them stand in the water in which 
they were scalded three days 5 then drain them^ 
and put them in your preserving pan ; and cover 
them with hot clarified sugar. Put them on the 
fire: give •them a gentle boilj let them stand two 
days ; then drain them ; boil the S3Tup till it blows, 
adding as much clarified sugar as you find neces- 
sary } put them on the fire ; let them be gently 
boiled and stand two days ; then drain the syrup, 
jmt the gages in jars, boil the syrup till it blows, 
and pour it hot upon them. 

To preserve apricots. 

Take the apricots before they are quite ripe; 
push out ^he stones, and put the apricots on a slow 
tire; scald them till soft; take them out of the 



178 DOMESTIC COOKERY, AND 



water with your scummer as soon as they are ("eady ; 
put them in cold water^ drain them^ and lay them 
singly in your preserving pan ; boil clarified sugar 
tiU it blows ; pour as much as will cover them ; then 
put them on the lire and let them boil gently about 
two or three minutes, and let them stand four days. 
Then drain the syrup firom them 5 boil it till it blows 
strong, adding as much clarified sugar as is neces- 
sary to cover them. When cold, put them in your 
jars. 

Fruit biscuits. 

Take an equal weight of scalded fruit-pulp, and 
sugar finely sifted, beat it two hours, then put it 
into forms, made of white pepper, and dry it in a 
cool oven, turn the next day, and in three days 
box them. 

Damson cheese. 

Bake the fruit in a stone-jar, pour off some of 
the juice, and to every four pounds of fi-uit, weigh 
one pound of sugar. Put the fruit over the fire in 
the pan, let it boil quickly till it begins to look dry, 
take out the stones, and add the sugar, stir it well 
in, and simmer two hours slowly, then boil it 
quickly thirty minutes, till the sides of the pan 
candy, then pour the jam into potting pans about 
an inch thick. 

Fine sweetmeat for tarts. 

Take four pounds of ripe apricots, divide them, 
and take out the stones, blanch the kernels, and 
put them to the fruit, add to it six pounds of green 
gage plums, and five pounds of lump sugar. Let 
the whole simmer till the fruit be a clear jam. Re- 
member it must not boil, and it must be well skiiii- 
med. When done, pour it into small pots. 



USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 17S 



Raspberry -cakes. 

Take any quantity of fruit you please^ weigh and 
boil it, and when meshed, and the liquor is wasted, 
add as much sugar as was equal in weight to the 
raw fruit. Mix it very well off the fire, till the 
whole is dissolved, then lay it on plates, and dry 
it in th^ sun. When the top part dries, cut it off 
into small cakes, and turn them on a fresh plate. 
Wlien dry, put the whole in boxes with layers of 
jiaper. 

To preserve currants in bunches. 

Select, when ripe, some of the finest sprigs of sed 
or white currants 3 open every one of the currants 
with a needle, then tie them in bunches of wliatever 
^ize you think proper ; place them in your preserv- 
ing pan 3 boil till it blows 3 take as much clarified 
sugar as will cover them 3 gently boil them, let 
them stand till the next day, drain them from the 
syrup, put them into yoiu* jars, boil the syrup till it 
blows, then pour it to them. 

Curranjb sprigs are preserved in the same manner. 

To keep gooseberries. 

Pick full grown, but not ripe gooseberries, strip 
them, and put them into the wide-mouthed bottles : 
cork them gently with new soft corks, put them in 
an oven, from which the bread has been drawn, 
and let them stand till nearly a quarter shrunk, 
il)en take them out, and beat the corks in tight, cut 
them off level with the bottle, and rosin down close. 
Set them in a dry place. 

To preserve damsons. 

Boil three pounds of sugar with six pounds of 
damsons, over a slow fire, till the juice adhered to 
the fruity and forms a jam. Keep it in small jars. 

q3 




174 ' DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AND 



Or, 

Put them in small jars, or bottles, with wide 
mouths, set them tip to their necks in a boiler of 
cold water, then place it over the fire, and scald 
them. When perfectly cold, fill up with spring 
water, and cover them. 

To presei-ve Mogul, or egg plums. 

Take them not too ripe -, prick and scald them as 
green gages, taking care to have a very slow fire ; 
fet them stand in the water in which they were 
scalded, till the next day; then drain them, put 
them in your preserving pan;- reduce your clarified 
sugar by adding a pint of water to every quart ; 
pour as much as will cover thepa, put them on a 
slow fire, simmer them very gently five minutes, 
let them stand four days, then drain them ; boil the 
syrup till it blows, gently pour it on them, let them 
stand six days ; then drain them, put them in youf 
jars, boil the syrup till it blows strong, adding Glar> 
rified sugar sufficient to cover them. 

To preserve Morilla cherries. 

Take as much clarified sugar as you think will 
cover the cherries you mean to preserve ; boil it till 
it blows, then put in your cherries, let them boil 
briskly two minutes, take the scum off th^m, let 
them stand till the next day, drain them and boil 
the syrup till it blows ; then put in your cherries, 
and as soon as they boil, take them off, and when 
cold put them into your jars. 

To preserve cherries for drying. 

Take the real Kentish cherries, stone them, and 
to every pound of cherries, take half a pint of cla- 
rified sugar } boil it till it snaps ; put in your cher- 



USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK< 17p 

ries and let them boil five minutes^ let them atand 
till the next day, drain them, and as soon as ycmr 
syrup boils, put in your cherries -, let them boil two 
minutes, when cold, drain them, and spread them 
singly on hair sieves to dry. The quicker they are 
dried the better -, and the best mode is in a baker's 
oven^ after the bread is drawn. 

To make iceingfor cakes. 

Take of double refined loaf sugar, sifted fine, as 
much as you think will be sufficient for the cake or 
cakes vou have to ice -, put it in an earthern pan ; 
add whites of eggs tiU it is pretty soft, then beat it 
well, adding a little lemon juice till you can just 
taste the acid, and lay it on your cake with a knife. 

Observe the iceing should be beat with a small 
wooden spattle. 

To preserve bunched raspberries. 

Tie the raspberries In bunches of whatever size 
you please) place them in yoiir preserving pan 5 
boil clarified sugar till it snaps, pour it on your rasp- 
berries 'f boil them two minutesi, let them stand two 
days ', then drain the syrup from them, put them In 
your jars, and boil the syrup till it blows very strong 5 
then pour it to them. 

Sprig raspberries aire preserved in the same 
manner. 

Cranberries, 

Are very good either for pies or puddings^ but 
they require a great portion of sugar. 

Raspberry vinegar. 

Put two pounds of fruit into a bowl, and pour 
upon it half a gallon of the best white wine vine- 



176 DOMESTIC tGOKERY, AND 



■jfi.. 



gar. The follomng day," strain the liquor on two 
pounds of fresh raspberries, and the day following 
the same, but do not squeeze the fruit, only drain 
it as dry as possible. 'Hie following day, pass it 
through a canvas previously wet with vinegar. Put 
the whole into a stone-jar, with a {>ound of sugar to 
every pint of juice, broken into large lumps, stir it 
till melted, then stand the jar in a saucepan of 
water, let it simmer, and skim it well. \A^hen cold, 
bottle it, and cork tight. 

A common cake. 

Mix a pound and a half of flour with a pound of 
butter, half a pound of sugar, eight eggs, an ounce 
of carraways, and a gill of raisin wine. Beat it 
well, and bake in a quick oven. 

Directions for keeping fruit. 

As it is almost as necessary to know how to keep 
fruit when preserved as to preserve it, you wll 
please to observe the following directions : — When 
your fruit in syrup, is in ,« state of fermentation, 
drain it from the syrup 5 then boil the syrup, put in 
your fruit, let that boU also. As soon as it is cold, 
return it to your jars. VVlien your fruit is candied 
in the syrup, turn both fruit and syrup together in 
your preserving pan, add a little water to reduce the 
strength of the syrup, let it boil and as soon as it is 
cold, return it to your jars. 

Queen cakes. 

Beat a pound of butter, and mix it with four well 
beaten e^gs strained, a pound of dried flour, the 
same quantity of powdered lump sugar, and the 
grated rind of two lemoiiB ; add the whole together, 
and beat it tiiirty minutes with a silver spoon. Put 
it in buttered cups or patty-pans, halJJuU, and bake 
twenty minutes. 



USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 177 

'■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■^■^■■■■■■■■■■■■WiW 

Spunge cake. 

Weigh fifteen eggs, put their weight in very fine 
sugar^ aQd that of nine in flour^ beat the yolks with 
the flour, and the whites alone to a very stiff froth ; 
then by degrees mix the whites and the flour with 
the other ingredients, and beat them forty minutes. 
Bake in a qiiick oven about one hour and ten mi- 
nutes. 

To make bread. 

Put a bushe] of good flour into a trough, mix with 
it two gallons of warm water, and three pints of 
good yeast, put it into the flour, and stir it well 
with your hands till it becomes tough. Let it rise, 
and then add another two gallons of warm water 
and a pound of salt, work it well and cover it with 
a cloth 5 then begin to warm your oven^ and by the 
time it is ready, the dough will also be rea^y ', make 
your loaves about five or six pounds each 3 dean 
your oven, and put in your breads shut it close^ 
and bake three hours. 

The water in summer should be milk^ warm, in 
winter rather warmer. 

American flour 

Is more profitable than English flour, because it 
requires double the quantity of water to make it 
into bread. This circumstance makes a balance in 
favour of the American flour of about three pounds 
of bread in every stone of flour of fourteen pounds. 

To find whether chalk is mixed with bread. 

Mix it with some strong vinegar, and if this 
throws it into a fermentation, you may be certain 
that either, chalk or whiting is put in the bread, 
which is often done by bakers in a shameful degree, 
especially in and about London. 



IT'S DOMESTIC COOKERY, AND 



Rice and wheat bread. 

Simmer two poimds of rice in a gallon of water, 
till it becomes perfectly soft. AVhen it is of a due 
warmth, mix it very well with eight pounds of 
flour^ with yeast and salt as for other bread. When 
well kneaded, set it to rise before the fire. Bake 
as other bread. This is also an economical method 
of making excellent bread. 

Fine rolls. 

Warm a bit of butter in a half a pint of milk, add 
to it two spoonsful! of small beer yeast, and some 
salt ', with the above ingredients mix two pounds 
of flour. Let it rise an hour, and knead it well j 
form your rolls, and bake them in a quick oven. 

French bread. 

With a peck of fine flour, mix the yolks of twelve 
and the whites of eight eggs, beaten and strained, 
a quart of good yeast and some salt, and as much 
warm milk as will make the whole into a thin light 
dou^^ stir it well, but do not knead it. Have 
ready several wooden dishes, holding about a quart 
or three pints each, divide the dough among them> 
aiid set it to rise 3 then turn them out of the bowls 
into a quick oven. When done, rasp them. 

French rolls are made by rubbing an ounce of 
butter into every pound of flour -, one beaten egg, 
a little yeast, and a sufficiency of milk to make a 
moderately stiff dough 3 beat, but do not knead it. 
Let it rise, and bake on tins; when done, rasp. — 
Observe for the bread and rolls, the yeast must 
not be bitter, or the whole will be spoiled. 



UaiiFUL RECEIPT BOOK. l^D 



Potatoe bread, , 

Boil six pounds of potatoes, work them with four 
ounces of butter^ and as much milk as will cause 
them to pass through a cullender 3 take a pint of 
good yeast and the same quantity cf warm water, 
mix it with the potatoes, and pour the whole on 
ten pounds of flour ; add salt as usual. Knead it 
well ; and, if necessary, add lAore milk and warm 
water ; then let it stand before the fire about an 
hour to rise. 

Yorkshire cakes, • 

Take three pounds of flour, a pint and a half of 
warm milk, foiu* spoonsfull of yeast, and three eggs, 
beat the whole well together, Und let it rise ; then 
form your cakes, and let them rise on the tins be- 
fore you bake, which must be in a slow oven. 

. Five ounces of butter may be warmed in the milk 
if agreeable. 

Hard biscuits. 

Warm half a pound of butter in as much skimmed 
milk as will make four pounds of flour into a very 
stiff paste. Beat it with a roUing-piu, and work it 
perfectly smooth. Roll it pretty thin, and stamp 
out your biscuits; prick them full of holes, and 
bake them, for which purpose six or eight minutes . 
will be sufficient. 

Muffins, 

Take fqdEpounds of flour, four eggs, a quarter 
of a pou^j^of butter melted in a quart of milk,^ 
and ten spoonsfull of good yeast. Mix ^he whole, 
and beat it welj ; then set it to rise three 9r four 
hours. Bake on an iron plate, and when ^one on 
one iaide, turn them. 



r 



-'V 



180 DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AND 

To make yeast. 

An excellent substitute for this useful artiQle^ may 
be gained from a composition of potatoes. Boil and 
peel son^e of a mealy sort, and mesh them fine, 
adding as much water, or ade, as will reduce them 
to the consistence of common yeast. To every 
pound of potatoes, add two ounces of coarse sugar, 
ai^d, when just warm, stir it up with two spoonsfull 
of yeast. Keep it warm till the fermentation is 
over and in twenty-four hours, it will be fit for use. 
A quart of yeast may be thus made from one pound 
of potatoes, which will keep three months. The 
sponge should be set eight hours before the bread is 
Ittked. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



T6 keep herbs for winter. 

Take any kind of sweet herbs, and three times 
quantity of parsley, dry them in the air with- 
out exposing them to the sun 3 whep quite dry, rub 
them through a sieve, then bottle tlhe produce, and 
l^eep it for use. Sage, thyme, mint^ Ac. &c. should 
be tied in small bunches, and driQlh||ri the air ; 
after which, each sort should be put uHN^pfer bag, 
and hung up in the kitchen. Pcirsli^mould be 
))!cked from the stalks, and dried in the shade to 
preserve its colour. Marigolds, when gathered and 
|)tcked clean, should be dried in a cloth, and kept in 
paper bags. 




USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. ISl 



To preserve nuts. 

Hazel nuts may be preserved in great perfection 
for many months, by burying them under ground in 
earthen pots, well closed^ about two feet deep^ in a 
sandy (dace. 

, To keep oranges and lemons. 

Bake some clean sand ; when it is cold put it 
into a vessel ; place a layer of oranges, or lemons^ 
with the stalk end downwards, so that they may 
not touch each other, and cover them with the sand 
two inches deep, and so continue till your vessel is 
fiill. This will preserve them in excellent order for 
several inonths. 

To keep cream. 

Mix with any quantity of good cream, half the 
weight of finely powdered lump sugar, stir it to* 
gether, and preserve it in bottles well corked. It 
will then keep very good for six or eight months. . 

To keep game or poultry. 

Crame, or poultry, may be preserved for a long 
time, by tying a string tight roiind the neck so as to 
exclude the air, and by putting a piece of charcoal 
into the vent. 



^ •T''' 




182 DOMESTIC COOKERY, AND 



HOME BREWERY. 



A cheap and excellent method of brewing . 

Take forty gallons of soft water^ and set it over 
the fire till it becomes so warm that you cannot hold 
your hand in it more than a minute^ then pour it into 
your mesh tub, and add to it one quarter of fine 
malt, meshing while the malt is putting in, which 
you must continue to do a fiill hour j cover it close, 
and let it remain one hour, after which draw it off; 
then take thirty gallons of water scalding hot^ and 
put that upon your malt, mesh it fifty minutes, and 
let it stand closely covered an equal length of time, 
after which draw it off to your fiirst wort. 3 then boil 
forty-eight gallons of water, and put it into your 
tun 3 mesh one hour, and cover it close ISfty mi- 
nutes, after which draw it off into a separate tub to 
form your table-beer ; after this is done, poiu* twelve 
gallons of cold water in your mesh tub^ where it 
must be suffered to remain forty minutes^ and then 
drawn off to your table-beer wort. Your first and 
second worts must be boiled with six pounds of hops 
very quickly for one hour and twenty minutes; 
then strain it, and run it into proper jpolers. Then 
boil your third worts very fast, witlAi few of the 
hops that had been previously used for the first and 
second worts 5 when the hops sink^ strain off your 
worts, and set it to cooL 

Make eight gallons of the first and second wort 




\ 
USEFUL B£CE1PT BOOK. 183 



rather more than milk warm ; then take a quart 
wooden bowl, and fill it with some new yeast, set 
it to swim in the eight gallons of wort, and when 
you perceive the yeast spread, add the remainder of 
the first and second worts milk warm^ then cover it 
up with your malt-sacks two days, and when you 
perceive it has a good head, skim the rough parts 
off. Having done this, take three ounces of salt, 
two ounces of ground ginger^ and six ounces of 
wheat flour ; mix these ingredients well with four 
or five quarts of your first and second worts ; add it 
to the whole, and mix it well together, by stirring it 
with a staff, affcer which, suffer it to remain for four 
hours, and then put it into your casks, observing to 
throw in some of the hops in each cask, having 
saved them for that purpose from the first boiling; 
then let it remain open till it has done working, after 
which, bung it closely down. 

Your table-beer must be treated exactly in the 
same manner^ but you must not make use of so 
much yeast. 

When you require very strong beer, use- the first 
worts only, and the second will make csuellent mild 
ale. 

When you require very good ale, mix the first 
and second worts. For good beer, mix all the worts 
together. 

One half, or a quarter of the quantity, may be 
made, by using half, or a quarter, of all the ingre- 
dients ', but the same time of boiling, meshing, and 
working, must be observed. 

Strong beer, or ale. 

Take fifteen bushels of malt to the hogshead for 
beer, and eight for ale. For either, pour the whole 
quantity of water hot, but not boiling, on it at 



4 



184 DOMESTIC COOKSRY^ AND 



once, and let it stand to iniuse three hours ; mesh 
it in the first half hour^ and let it stand the remainder 
of the time closely covered. Run it on the hops, 
previously soaked in water 3 for strong heer, three 
quarters of a pound to every bushel, but for ale only 
eight ounces. Boil them with the wort two hours 
and a half from the time it commences boiling. 
Cool about two gallons, to which add two quarts of 
^east, which will prepare it for putting to the rest 
next day -, but, if possible, put it together the same 
night. Tun as usual. Cover the bunghole with 
paper when the beer has done working, and when it 
is ready to be stopped, put in one pound and a half 
of dried hops, then &sten it closely up. Observe 
that twelve bushels of malt will make good strong 
beer. It should stand in the cask one year before 
drawn, and i£ bottled, another year in bottles. The 
longer it is kept, the better it will be. 

The ale will be good in four months. 

After your strong beer, or ale, is thus made, a 
good table-beer may be prepared by pouring a 
hogshead of water on the grains, and repeating the 
same process as for the other. Some of the hops 
boiled for the strong beer will also serve for this. 

When beer is soured by thunder or heat, a tto- 
spoonfiil of salt and wormwood put in the jug, will 
set it right. 

Observe, October and March are good months for 
brewing. 

Fine table beer. 

On a bushel of malt, pour four gallons of hot 
water, cover it warm thirty minutes, then mesh, and 
let it stand three hours more, then let it run off; 
when dry, add five gallons more water, mesh, and 
let it stand half an hour, run that into another tub^ 






■I 



USEFUL RECEIPT ROOK. 185 

and pour five ^;alloiis tnore water on th© malt, stir 
it well, and let it stand one hour or longer, then 
run it off, and mix the whole together. Half a 
pound of hops, previously infused in water, should 
be put into the tub for the first running. 

Boil the hops with the wort one hour from the 
time it commences boiling. Strain it off, and cool 
it, and the same day, if sufficiently cool, put in ra- 
ther more than half a pint of good yeast. When it 
has done working, cover the bunghole with a piece 
of paper for three days. Then fasten it close, and 
in three weeks the beer will be fit for use, 

Fme Welsh ale, 
» 

Pour twenty-one gallons of hot water (but not 
boiling) on four bushels of malt. Let it stand three 
hours closely covered, during which time infuse two 
pouqds of hops- into a little hot water, and put the 
water and hops into ^the tub, run the wort upon 
them, and boU the whole three hours^ then strain 
off the hops, and keep them for the small beer. 

Let the wort stand till sufficiently cool to receive 
the yeast, of which put in one quart taken from ale 
or small beer. Mix it well, and often. When the 
wort has done working, (generally on the third day) 
the yeast will sink a little in the middle, then re- 
move it, and tun the ale as it works out. Pour a, 
quart in at a time very gently. Lay a bit of paper 
over the bunghole about three days before you close 
it up. 

Small beer may be prepared from the grains as 
before mentioned, using also the same hops. When 
barrels are emptied, the cock-hole should have a 
cork driven in,tfimd the vent-peg should also be 
hammered in tight, which will prevent beer-cusks 
from becoming musty* 

R 3 




■v*« 



r^-^ p9 



.^.i 



186 DOMBSTIC C0OKERT> AND 

Treacle beer^ 

Put a gallon of boiling water to two pounds of 
treacle, mix them well, add twelve quarts of ccdd 
water and half a pint of yeast, put it into a cask, 
cover it close, and in three days it will be fit to 
drink. If made in l^ge quantities or designed to 
keep, put in some malt and hops, and when the 
fermentation is over, stop it up close. 

To refine beer, cyder ^ or wine. 

Dissolve two ounces of isinglass in a quart of the 
liquor you wish to fine, whisk it well, dnd then add 
a quantity of the liquor into which you intend to 
put it, with a tea-spoonfull of pearl-ash, one oiuce 
of calcined salt of tartar and- the same quantity of 
powdered burnt alum. Mis: the whole well toge« 
ther, then pour it into the cask, and stir it weU 
about with a clean stick -, close it, and in three or 
four days it wiU be quite fine. , 

To cleanse a musty cask. 

Dissolve a pound of bay salt, and half a pound 
of alum in some water, then add as much fresh 
dung from a milking cow, as will make it thick, 
but not more so than will allow it to pass through 
a funnel ; ppit it on the fire, and stir it with a stick 
tiU it is near boiling, and then put it in t he cask^ 
bung it up close, shake it about for five minutes, let 
it stand two hours, then take out the bung, and 
let the vapour out ; &sten it down again, give it 
another shaking, let it stand two hours more, and 
then rinse with cold water till it comes out perfectly 
clear. Then have ready some water with half sl 
pound of bay salt and two ounc^ •f allum boiled 
in it ', serve this as you did the ftst washings and 
when einptied^ it wiU be fit for use. 



USEFUL RECLIPT BOOK. 187 



u- 



HOME MADE. WINES AND 
COMPOUNDS. 



■»- 



t En^tsk mountain. 

Take three gallons of spring water, and fifteen 
pounds of raisins chopped very fine ; let them re- 
main three weeks, then squeeze out the liquor, and 
put it in a cask that has heen fumigated with 
matches. Do not stop it till the fermentation has 
cetjlfied. 

Hien bung it very tight and, when fine, bottle 
it oflF. 

Currant wine. 

Let your currants be ripe, mesh them with your 
hands, and to every quart of pulp add three pints 
of water. Mix them well together, and let them 
stand till they have done fermenting, then strain them 
through a hair-sieve, and to every gallon put three 
pounds (or mote) of moist sugar. When the sugar 
is perfectly melted, put the liquor in a cask with 
little dissolved isinglass. To ever^ten gallons, ad4^ 
one pint of brandy ; bungit up, and let it remain one 
year, then bottle it. 

Note — Half a pound more sugar to every gallon 
would be a great improvement. , 

Raisin wine. 

Take one hundred pounds of Malaga raisins, cut 
them slightly, and put them into a Cask with twenty 
gallons ef water^ and five half pints of brandy ; 




188 DOMESTIC COOKERY, AND 

stir well once every day for a week, then bung it 
closely up^ and let it stand at least six months^ tlien 
bottle it. ' 

Orange tome. 

To twelve pounds of lump sugar, put the whites 
of eight eggs well beaten, and six gallons of spring 
water, boil it one hour, obsei'ving to skim it ; when 
nearly cold, add the juice and rinds of fifty Seville 
oranges. Let this stand till done fermenting, then 
put it in a cask. Take half a gallon of white wine, 
the juice of twelve lemons> and two pounds of loaf 
sugar, cover them dose twelve hours, and take care 
to leave no seeds in, then add to the rest ; put six 
of the lemon rinds into the cask., Let it stand 
fourteen days before you bottle it off. 

Ginger wine. 

To ten gallons of water, put ten pounds of lump 
sugar, ten ounces of bruised ginger, and the whites 
of eight eggs beaten to a froth, boil them together 
one hour, and take off the scum as it rises ; then 
put it in a tub, and let it stand till cold 5 then put 
it in a barrel with the rinds of ten lemons peeled 
very thin, and the juice of thirteen strained from 
the seeds, and one quart of brandy; put a spoonful 
of yeast on the top, and stop it close ; in a fortnight 
bottle it^ and in another fortnight it will be fit for 
use. 

Gooseberry wine. 

Take your fruit, not over ripe, bruise it in a 
wooden vessel, but not much, then measure, and to 
every gallon put two of cold water, mix them well 
together, and let them stand twenty-four hours, 
then strain it through a bag, and to every gallon 
put four pounds of sugar. Let it dissolve, stir it 



USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 189 



well^ cask it^ and let it work two days. Bung it. 
for a week, then draw it oflf. Rinse the cask with 
a little brandy^ and to every gallon add three quar- 
ters of a pound more of sugar : mix it weU, return 
it to the cask^ bung it up ^r two or more months^ 
then bottle it. 

Cowslip wine. 

To fifty poimds of sugar^ add twenty-four gallons 
of waterj'boil it for an hour^ carefully skimnyMp* 
Pour it into a tub^ and when cold^ add twel^ 
pecks of bruised cowslip flowers^ with the peel and 
jmce of twenty lemons^ and two quarterns of good 
ale yeast. Stir it well for three days^ then rack it 
into a clean cask^ cowslips and all^ with half a gal- 
lon of brandy. When it has done Workings bung it 
close. 

Elder wine. 

To every gallon of ripe elder berries^ pnt four 
gallons of water^ hjalf an oUnce of gingery and two 
ounces of aUspice^ boil it twenty minutes^ strain k 
through a hair-sieve^ and put it in your pan again 
with three pounds of moist sugar to every gallon, 
boil it thirty minutes, put in your tub a few pounds 
of raisins cut into halves, pour the boiling liquor 
on them ; when it is nearly cold, add some ale yeast, 
and let it work three days, tun it, add a quart of 
brandy to every thirty-six gallons, and bottle it at 
Christmas. 

Apricot wine. 

Pick your fruit when nearly ripe, wipe and quar- 
ter them, to every eight pounds, add six quarts of 
water 5 let them boil till the water tastes strong, 
then strain them tlirough a hair-sieve, and put half 
a pound of fine sugar to every quart of liquor, beil 
and scum till it ceases to rise. Put it into an 




« 



190 DOMESTIC COOKER r^ AND 



earthen stein twenty-four hours, then bottle it up 
with a hunp of sugar in* each bottle. 

Raspberry wine. 

Take equal quantities of fruit and water^ bruise 
and let them stand two days, then strain it, and to 
every gallon put four pounds of coarse sugar j when 
dissolved, put the liquor in a barrel, and when fine 
(which will be^nerally in three months), bottle it, 
99^ in each bottle put a large spoonfid of teandy. 

*• Black currant wind . 

To every gallon of juice, put tlie same quantity 
of water, and to every gallon, of this mixed liquor, 
put four pounds of the finest moist sugar, put the 
whole in a cask, reserving a little to fill up. Put 
the cask in a warm dry room, and the liquor will 
ferment of itself 5 skim off the refuse, and when 
the fermentation ceases, fill up with the reserved 
liquor. Wlien it has quite done working, add a 
bottle of brandy to every five gallons of v*ine. 
Bung it dose for one year, then bottle it, and filter 
the thick part. 

Balm wine. 

Boil six pounds of sugar in two gallons of water, 
scum it, and put in two handsfiil of balm, and let 
it boU fifteen minutes^ strain it off, cool, it, add 
some yeast, and let it stand two days -, put in the 
rind and peels of two lemons, and let it stand in 
the barrel six or eight months. 

Mixed wine, 

^Take of white, red, and black currants, cherries, 
and raspberries, equal quantities, mesh them, and 
pass the juice through a strainer 5 to every two 
quarts of which, boil six pounds of moist sugar 



U8KFUL EECEIPT BOOK. 191 

in six quarts of water^ and, scum it clean 5 when 
cold^ mix the juice with it, and put the whole 
into a barrel that will just hold it, put in the bung 
slightly, let it remain ten days, then close it up, and 
let it stand four months, observing to add a little 
brandy to it. 

Family wine, 

A very useful family wine may be made of the 
birch-tree. While the sap is rising in the early 
part of March, boles shoiQd be bored in the body 
of the tree, and fossets of elder placed in them to 
carry ofiF the liquor. If the tree is large, it may be 
.tapped in several places, and one branch will some- 
times yield a gallon a day. The sap thus procured 
, is to be boiled with sugar, one pound of which 
must be put to every pound of liquor. It must be 
then fermented, and treated in the same manner as 
other made wines. 

Mead. ^ 

Take twenty-four pounds of honey and six gallons 
of water^ boU it one hour, skim it well, then add an 
cmnce of hops to every gallon, and boil it thirty 
minutes longer, and let it stand till next day 5 put it 
into your cask, and to every twelve gallons, add one 
quart of brandy, stop it lightly till the fermentation 
is over, then stop it very dose. Keep it one year 
before you tap. 

Ddmson wine. 

To every gallon of water, put two pounds and a 
half of sugar, boil them^ two hours, and skim it 
carefully all the time, and to esuch gallon allow five 
pounds of fine damsons, with the stones taken out> 
boil them till the colour is a fine red, strain the 






•> i 



• 



194 DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AND ' 

Lime water. 
Take three pounds of lime, put it in a pail, and 
pour on as much water as will slack it ^ when dis- 
solved, add two gallons of water, and when cold 
and settled, it is fit for use. 

English noyeau, 
Blanch and bruise half a pound of bitter almonds, 
put them into a quart of cold water, and let them 
stand two hours, then add six pints of the juice of 
white currants, six pounds of fine lump sugar, the 
peels of six lemons grated, and ten gallbns of white 
brandy -, stir them well together, and let them stand 
tltfee days, then strain it through a jelly-bag, and 
bottle it off. Two quarts of fresh brandy put on 
the dregs, will, after standing three days, make 
an excellent liquor for giving a flavour to pud- 
dings, &c. 

Peppermint. 

For compounds, any spirit extracted from sugar, 
malt, crab, cyder, or raisins, may be made use of. 

For five gallons, take three and a half of spirits, 
and four pennyweights of the oil of peppermint, 
with three pounds of loaf sugar, and half a pint of 
spirits of wine, fill it up with water, and fine as you 
do Geneva. Also observe, that in all compounds, 
the oil must be killed and worked in a similar 
manner. 

Quem*s coriial. 

For three gallons of spirits, take two pennyweights 
of the oil of mint, one of oilof carawiBy,2m ounce 
of coriander seed, and the same of caraway seeds, 
half an ounce of cassia, half an ounce of mace, a 
pint of spirits of wine, and two pounds of lump 
sugar, add water to taste. Observe, the spice, 
seeds, and cassia, must be steeped in th^ spirits 
and wcU shaken daily. Fine with alum only. 



:* 



\ 



USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 195 

V. 

Prmce*s cordial. 

Take of cherry brandy^ of currant wine^ and 
orange wine^ eadi a quart, one gaUon of . spirits, 
half an ounce of mace, a quarter of an ounce of 
cloves, and half an ounce of cinnamon, the same 
weight of coriander seeds, the same of caraway^ 
five drops of the oil of orange, and the same of the 
essence of lemon ; with two pounds of loaf sugar -, 
measure the whole, and make it up to twelve quarts 
with water. Steep the spice and seeds in the spirits 
six days, havii^ previously bruised them; colour 
with burnt sugar. 

Cappillaire. 

Take fourteen pounds of Imnp sugar, and seven 
of moist, mix eight well beaten eggs with the 
sugar, and boil it in four gallons of water, con- 
tinuing to skim it till no more scum appears. Strain 
it through a coarse bag, and add three pennyweights 
of the essence of lemon y then bottle it in small 
bottles for use. 

Ratafia, 

To make six gallons, take three quarts of spirits, 
and three grains of ambergris, one ounce of apri- 
cot and peach kernels, and three ounces of bitter 
almonds, a pound of powdered lump sugar, and 
three quarters of a pint of spirits of wine ; make 
up the quantity with water that has been boiled, 
but left to grow cold. 

English port 

Put four gallons of good port wine mto a thirty- 
gallon cask that has been fumed with a match ; 
add to it twenty gallons of good cyder; then nearly 
fill your cask with French brandy — ^The juice of 
sloes and elderberries will make it of a proper 



/ 



196 DOMESTIC COOKSmT^ AND 

rougfaness ; pat in some cochineal to colour it. 
You may use turnip juice^ or raisin cyder^ instead 
of cyder ^ and brandy cyder instead of fVench 
brandy. 

English sack. 

To every gallon of water, put four sprigs of nte 
and a handful of fennel roots^ boil these for half 
an hour — ^then strain itj and to every quart of 
liquor, put three quarters of a pound of honey : 
boil it two hours ; skim it well -, when boiled pour 
it off, and turn it into a dean cask; then bottle it 
off, and turn it into a clean cask. Keep it one 
year in the cask ; then bottle it off*, and it will be 
excellent. 

English mountain. 

To every gallon of spring water, put five pounds 
of raisins, chopped Acceding fine; let -them remain 
three weeks, then squeeze out the liquor, and put 
it into a cask that has been fumigated with some 
matches; do not stop it till the fermentation has 
ceased, then bung it tight, and, when fine^ bottle 
ito£P. 

Blackberry wine. 

When they are ripe, bruise them, and to every 
quart of blackberries, put a pint of boiling spring 
water, let them stand till next day, strain th^n 
through a sieve, and to every quart of liqupr, put 
rather more than half a pound of sugar; when your 
sugar is melted, put it in the cask. 

Sweet Acid, 

Take a gallon of lemon juice, and set it over a 
gentle fire, in a brass pan, with two pounds of good 
moist sugar; simmer till it becomes a syr|ip> and 
when cold, bottle for use. 



USEFUL RECEIPT BOuK. ' 197 



Bitters, 

Steep an ounce of gentian root^ and a quarter 
of an ounce of Virginia snake root^ and a quarter of 
a dram of cochineal^ in a pint of brandy^ for three 
days, strain k through some paper and bottle it 
fbv use. 

ShruK 

Take a gallon of rum^ six pounds of lump sugar 
dissolved in a quart of lim^ juice^ and mix the 
whole well together; then put it-in a cask^ and 
wh^n fine^ botde it off for use. 

Cyder and Perry. 

In cyder^ use gennatins, golden -pippins, pear- 
mains, red stressed pippins, &c. &c. for which 
purpose, they should be sufficiently ripe to shake 
from the trees with ease; bruise tiiem to a mesh 
and squeeze them through a hair-sieve into a cask 
that has been fumigated with a match, then mesh 
the pulp with some warm water, and when strained, 
add a fourth part of the cyder. To make 
work well, beat a little flouf, the whites of some 
eggs and a little honey together^ put them into a 
small linen bag, and let them hang by a string in 
the middle of the cask> then put -in a pint of new 
ale yeast, let it cleanse itself six days 5 then bung 
it down. 

Or, 

Take the apples before they are quite ripe, and 
let them lie two days in a heap to sweat, mesh them, 
press out the juice put it in a cask, observing to 
leave room for it to work ; make a small hole near 
the bung-hole, but allow it no other vent ; add to 
the whole some sugar, but not more than two 
pounds to every hogshead, aoid fbur pounds of 

sS 




V 



198 DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AND 

Malaga ndsins ; then rack it off, and put it m a cask 
with a small hole as before ; then let it remain ItU 
you think proper to bottle it^ which should be done 
either in March or April. 

Perry, • 

Perry is made in the same manner as cyder^ only 
using pears instead of apples, and the fruit must 
be dry and the more unfit they are for eatings the 
better they are for perry. 

Observe, when you bottle cyder and perry, it 
should be left- two days imcorked, and a lump of 
sugar should be put in each bottle. 

To manage cyder. 

To improve the flavour of a hogshead, take one 
gallon of French brandy, half an ounce of cochi- 
neal, a pound of alum, and three pounds of sugar- 
candy, beat the latter articles well together, and 
steep them two days in the brandy ; pour ihe whole 
into the cyder, and stop it dose six months. 

To cure the acid, or restore British wine, when it 

is pricked. 

Rack off your wine into another cask, fumigated 
with a match, and to every five gallons put in an 
ounce of oyster powder and a quarter of an ounce 
of bay salt, and stir it well in with a staff; then 
rack it, in a few days, into another cask that has 
be^n well fumigated. If you can procure the lees 
of some of the same kind, it will be an improve- 
ment, and. to every five gallons, put a pint of 
brandy. 

To take an ill scent from wine. 

Make a long thin roll of dough, bake it, -and 
stick it well with doves, hang it in the cask^ «nd 
it will draw the ill scent from the wines. 



199 DOMESTIC COOLER Y^ AND 



To sweeten wines. 

To fifteen gallons of wine, put half a pound of 
dry ground mustard seed, and a small handful of 
clary flowers, put it ura linen bag, and sink it to 
the bottom of the cask. 

For wine when decaying. 

Make an ounce of roch alum into powder, draw 
out three gallons of the wine, put it in the alum, and 
beat it for half an hour, return it to the rest in^the 
cask, and when fine, which will be in seven or eiglit 
days, bottle it ofL 

To cure ropy wine. 

Tap the wine, and cover the end of the cock 
that goes into the cask, with apiece of coarse hnen 
doth $ rack it into a dry cask, with a quarter of a 
pound of powdered alum, shake it w^ell, and it wiU 
fine down, and be a pleasant wine. 



DAIRY and POULTRY. 



Great attention is requisite in the dairy, which 
may be comprised in two words, namely — perfect 
cleanliness. The milk when brought in should 
always be strained into the pans. Cold water 
should be frequently thrown on every part of the 
dairy. Neither meat nor any thing dse should be 
suffered to hang in it. " The sun should be excluded, 
but a free current of air admitted. The cows 
should be rq^nlarly milked at an early hour, and 




USEFUL. mSCBIPT BOOK. 900 

the udders perfectly emptied. In good pastnres^ the 
cows produce fsi an average three ^llons a day 
from Lady-day to Michadimas^ and fi^m thence to 
Christmas, one gallon a day. Cows may be milked 
with profit fifteen years 5 and should calve from 
Lady-day to May. 

When you design to rear a calf, it should be 
removed from the cow in ten days at the £uihest ; 
remove it from the mother in the morning, and give 
it no food till the following morning, when being 
extremely himgry, it will drink readily j feed it 
r^ularly in the morning and evening, and let the 
mdk given it be just warm : the skimmed milk wiU 
be qmte good enough. 

Rennei. • 

Take out the stomach of a calf just killed, and 
scour it well with salt and water, both inside and 
outside ^ let it drain, and then sew it up with two 
large handsful of salt in it, or keep it in the salt 
wet^ and soak a bit, which Mrill do by fresh water. 

Cheese. 

Warm your milk till equal to new 3 but observe 
it must not be too hot; add a sufficiency of rennet 
to turn it, and cover it over : let it remain till well 
turned, then strike the curd well down with the 
skimming dish, and let it separate, observing to 
keep it still covered. Put the vat over the tub, and 
fin it with curd, which must be squeezed close 
with your hand, and moi« added as it sinks, and at 
length left about three inches above the edge of 
the vat. Before the vat is in this manner iBlled, 
the cheese cloth must be laid at the bottom of it, 
and, when fuU, drawn smoothly over on all sides. 
The curd should be salted in the tub after the whey 




5201 DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AND 



x; iTV. 



is out. When every thing is prepared as above 
directed^ put a board under ani over the vat^ 
then place it in the press ; let it remain two hours^ 
then turn it out^ put on a «&esh cheese cloth^ and 
press it again ten hours -, then salt it all over> and 
turn it again into the vat 5 then press it again twenty 
hours. Observe^ the vat should have several smaU 
holes in the bottom to let the whey run off. 

Cream cheese, 

P^t as I4uch salt to three quarts of raw cream 

' as will season it^ stir it weU^ and pour it intuit sieve, 

in which you have folded a cheese cloth fymr tunes 

doubled, when it hardens, cover it with nettles on a 

pewter dish. 

Sage cheese. 

Bruise some young red sage and spinach leaves, 
express the juice, and mix it with the curd 3 then do 
as with other cheese. 

Butter. 

Butter IS disagreeable when the cows feed on 
turnips or cabbages, but this may be partly obviated, 
by addiag one gallon of boiling water to every six 
' of milk when strained into your pans. In summer, 
your milk should stand for cream one diky, and 
in winter two. When you skim it, put the cream- 
pot in a cold cellar, or, in short, the coldest place 
you have. Always chum twice a- week, and change 
your cream daily into fresh scalded pots. When 
the butter, is come, pour off the butter-milk, and 
put the butter into pans which have been scalded, 
and then cooled in cold water, and beat it with a 
flat board, till every drop of butter-milk is forced 
out, before which, however it must lay some time 
in water ; and while you are thus working it, you 



902 DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AND 



must observe to change the water as fast as it 
becomes coloured^ till it at length remains perfectly 
clear; then add your salt, weigh and form the butter, 
and throw it into a pan of clean water, with a cover, 
by which method you wiU have excellent butter, 
even in the middle of summer. 

To preserve butter. 

Take two pounds of common salt, one pound of 
loaf sugar, and one pound of saltpetre, beat the 
whole well together ^ then, to fourteen pounds of 
butter, put one pomid of this mixture, work it well, 
and when cold and firm, put it in glazed earthen 
vessels that will hold fourteen pounds each. But- 
ter thus preserved becomes better by being kept, 
but observe, it must be kept from the air, and 
securely covered down. If intended for winter usfe, 
add another dunce of the mixture to every pound of 
butter, and on the top of the pans, lay ei^iigh salt 
to cover them with brine. 

To scald cream. 

Let your milk stand twenty-fbur hoiurs, then put 
the pan on a warm hearth, where it must remain 
till the milk is perfectly hot, but on no account 
boiling, which would spoil the whole; you may 
judge when it is enough, by its having a ring round 
the pan the size of the bottom ; then remove the 
pan into the dairy, and skim it the next day. 

Observe, the fire should be stow; and in summer 
the milk, previous to scalding, need not stand more 
than sixteen hours. 

Butter^milk. 

If made of sweet cream, is excellent, but in all 
cases exceedingly wholesome, and serves extremely 
well for cakes and puddings. 



USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 203 



POULTRY. 



Your hen-roost should be kept extremely clean^ 
and your breed should not be too large 5 ohe cock is 
sufficient to six or ei^t hens. 

When your hens are near laying, mix a littfe 
nettle-seed with their food, and always feed your 
poultry at regular periods, which will cause them to 
be familiar. 

When you design to set a hen, never put more 
jthan twelve eggs imder her. 

Wormwood and rue should be planted round the 
house where you keep your poultry, as it will assist 
to destroy the vermin. 

Rats, stoats, &c. so destructive to poultry, can 
only be destroyed by the help of traps, which 
should be set for that purpose. ^ 

Ducks usually commence* .la.yin^ in February, 
tiiey should have a place to retire to at night. 

Geese require but little trouble, and will nearly 
svrpport themselves, especially if near a common, 
^^en about to ^ lay, they must be driven to their 
nests, and shut up. Mix a little hemp-seed with 
their food. 

Cramming capons or turkeys. 

Mix some barely-meal into paste with new milk ; 
then make it into long rolls, larger in the centre 
than at the ends, and with these give them a fiill 
gorge three times a day, and in fourteen days they 
wiU be perfectly fat; but not near so firm, nor 
wholesome, as by the following method : — • 



' r. 



204 DOMBSTIC COOKEBY^ AND 

To fatten poultry^ 

Poultry should be fattened in coops^ and kept 
very dean. They should be furnished with gravel, 
but with very little water. Their only food barley- 
meal^ mixed so thin with water as nearly to serve 
for drink. This shoidd not be put in troughs, but 
laid upon a board, which should be dean-wash^ 
every time fresh food is put upon it. It is foul and 
heated water which is the sole cause of the pip. 

Turkeys 

When young are extremely tender. When hatch- 
ed, two or three pepper-ooms should be put down 
their throaty and grieat attention must be paid to 
them. Turkeys .are voracious, and will, when 
grown up, shift for themselves with one feed a day. 
The hen sits thirty days, and the young ones must 
be kept very warm, as the least damp or cold de- 
stroys them. Feed them frequently at some distance 
from the hen, chopped purds, cheese-parings, and 
cliderberries are very good for them, with a little 
fresh milk and Water to drink. Put the hen under a^ 
oo(^ in a situation exposed to the sun, for the first 
v^lcmth, and the yoimg must be shut up before the 
oew &lls. Turkeys commence laying in Mardi^ 
and sit in April. 

Pea-fowls 

Are fed in the same manner as turkeys, and the 
pea-hen will herself provide for her young ones 
withotit any trouble. 

Guinea^hen. 

Their eggs should be hatched under the conomon 
fowl. The young require great warmth, quiet, and 



. USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 205 

» 

careful feeding : for which purpose^ use rice swelled 
with milk; and^ when first hatched^ put a pepper 
corn down their throats. 

Paeons 

Will Vreed sufficiently fest, after you have get 
three or four pair. Lay some clay near their house, 
and pour all the useless hrine over it, for they arc 
very fond of salt ; feed them with white peas, bar- 
ley, tares, &c. 



RECEIPTS 



FOR 



SICK COOKERY, &c, 



jin excellent broth. 

Boil four poomds of loin of mutton in a gallon of 
M^fiter with some chervil, till it is reduced to two 
quarts, remove some of the fat, and use it as 
agreeable. Any other herbs may be used. 

Calves'-feet broth 

BiBil a set of feet in six quarts of water, till re- 
duced to three, strain it, and set it by 5 when wanted 
for use, remove the fat, and put a cupfull of the 
jelly into a saucepan, with half a glass of sweet 
wine, some sugar, and nutmeg; when it is near 
boiling, beat up a little of it with the yolk of an^: 
egg, and a bit of butter, and some lemon }ieel; 
dtir the whole together, but do not suffer it to boil. 




206 DOMESTIC COOKEBY^ AND 



Eel broth. 

Set a pound of small eels over the fire with six 
pints of water^ some parsley, onion, and a few 
pepper-eoms. Simmer till the broth is good, then 
strain it off, and add salt. /The. above quantitv 
should be reduced by simmering^ to three pints 

Chicken bfotK 

Skin and divide your chickeii, put it in some water 
with a blade of mace, one sliced onion, and a £bw 
white pepper-corns, simmer till sufficiently good; 
then strain it, and remove the fat. 

Veal broth. 

Put four pounds of veal into a gallon of water, 
with a large crust of bread, tWo blades of mace, 
and some parsley, let it boil three hours closely 
covlered, then skim it dean. 

Arrow*root. 

Care must be taken to procure that which is 
genuine, mix it in the same manner as you would 
starch ; then add a glass of sherry, with sugar and 
nutmeg to fancy, or a little brandy. 

Arrow^root jelly. 

Boil a pint of water, with two spoonsfull of good 
brandy, some nutmeg, and sugar, then pour it 
boiling hot on two spoonsfull of arrow-root, pre- 
viously mixed smooth with cold water. 

Pork'jelly. 

Beat a leg ot pork, and break the bone, put it 
over the fire with three gallons of water, and let 
It simmer till reduced to one, stew half an ounce 
of mace and the same quantity of nutmeg in it ; 



USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 907 



Strain it, and when c6ld, remove the fat. A glass- 
ful the first and last thing is good. Season with 
salt. 

Tapioca jelly. 

Wash some tapioca in cold water, and soak it in 
fresh water six hours 5 then let it simmer in the 
same water, with a bit of lemon peel, till it becomes 
clear, then add lemon-juice, wine, and sugar, agree- 
able to taste. 

Gloucester jelly. 

Take two ounces each of hartshorn shavings, 
eringo root, pearl-barley, rice, and sago, simmer 
them with three quarts of water till reduced to 
one 5 then strain it off, when cold it will be a jelly ; 
it may then be dissolved in wine, milk, or broth, 
as occasion may require. 

Panada. 

Set your water on the fire with a glas3 of sherry, 
some loaf sugar, and a little grated nutmeg and 
lemon peel; have some grated crumbs of bread 
ready, and the moment it boils, put them in without 
taking it off, and let it boil as &st as possible 5 when 
sufficiently thick just to drink, take it off. 

Sippets, 

On a very, hot plate, lay some sippets of bread, 
and pom* some beef, mutton, or veal-gravy on them, 
then sprinkle a little salt over them. 

Weakly persons may take eggs in the following 
manner: beat an e^^ very fine, add some sugar 
and nutmeg, pour upon it a gill of boiling water. 



I ^■■^'^^^"■^^^■^^■— ^'^^p— ^i^l—i f^HiP 



^08 DOMESTIC COOKfiRT, AND 

and drink it immediately; or^ mix up an egg with 
a glass of wine^ or a spoonful of brandy and a little 
sugar. , ■ • 

Or, 

Eggs, very little boiled, or poached, are extremely 
nourishing, but the yolk alone should be eaten by 
sick persons. 

■ 

An excellent restorative. 

Bake four calves feet in two quarts of water and 
the same quantity of new milk, in a close covereo 
jar four hours ; when cold, remove the fat, and give 
a jelly-glass the first and last thing. It may be 
flavoured to taste by lemon-peel, cinnamon, mace, 
sugar, &c. 

Or, 

Boil half an o^unce of isinglas shavings with a* 
quart of new milk, till reduced to a pint) add some 
sugar and a bitter almond shred small. Take this 
at bed time, but not too warm» 

Caudle. 

Put two spoonsful of oatmeal into a quart'of ^ 
water, with some mace and lemon peel, stir it crften, 
and let it boil half an hour ; strain it, put in some 
sugar, white wine, and nutmeg. To make brown 
caudle, prepare the articles as above, and after strain- 
ing, add to them a pint of good mild ale, and flavour 
with brandy and sugar. 

Or, 

Boil up a pint of fine gruel, with a bit of butter 
about the size of a walnut, two table-spoonsful of 
brandy, the same quantity of white wine and capil* 
laire, add a little grate^ lemon-peel and nutm^. 



tSKFUL RECEIPT BOOK. t09 

White grit caudle. 

Well wash half a pint of split grits^ and boil them* 
in three pints of water till it becomes sufficiently 
thick; stir it frequently; strain it through a hair 
sieve^ and sweeten to your taste. 



Brown grit caudle. 

Well wash half a pint of grits^ boil them in rather 
better than a quart of water> till it is as thick as you 
possibly can strain it through a sieve ; then thin it 
with half a pint of ale or mild beer^ and a glass of 
liquor ; sweeten it to your taste* 

Rice caudle. 

Mix some ground rice smooth with a little cold 
water, then put It into boiling water ; when it be- 
comes sufficiently thick, add a bit of lemon-peel, and 
some cinnamon, a glass of brandy, and sugar to taste. 

Mulled wine. 

Boil a pint of wine with nutmeg, cloves, and 
sugar, serve it with slices of toasted bread ; or 
beaf up the yolks of four eggs with a little cold 
wine, and mix them carefully with the hot wine, 
pour it backwards and forwards till it looks fine, 
heat it again over the fire till it is tolerably thick, 
pour it backwards and forwards, and serve with 
toasted bread as above. 

Or, 

Boil some spice in a little water, till the flavour 
is extracted, then add a pint of port wine, with 
some sugar and nutmeg. 

t3 




210 D0MB8TIC COOKEHT, ANP 



Mulled ale. 



9 » 

Boil a quart of good ale with some nutmegs beat 
up six ^gs, and mix them with a little cold ale/ 
then pour the hot ale to it, and return it several 
times to prevent it from curdling 5' warm, and stir 
it till sufficiently thick, add a piece of butter^ or a 
glass of brandy, and serve it with dry toast. 

Saloop, 

Boil some wine, water, sugar, and lemon-ped, 
together; then add the saloop-powder, previously 
rubbed smooth with a little cold water, and boil the 
whole a few minutes. 

Sago. 

Soak your sago in cold water one hour, wash 
it well, and pour off the water ; then add some 
more, and simmer the whole till the berries are 
clear; then add lemon, wine, spice, and sugar, 
and boil the whole up together. 

Chocolate, 

Scrape a cake of chocolate into a pint of boiling 
water, mill it off the fire till it is dissolved ; then 
let it boil gently, pour it into a bason, and let it 
stand in a cool place for several days ; when wanted, 
put in some milk^ boil it with sugar,, and mill it 
well ; or, if the stomach is weak^ make some gruel 
as thick as the chocolate, strain it, and mix them 
together. 

Coffee milk. 

Boil two ounces of well ground coffee in a quart 
of milk for twenty-minutes, and put in a shaving 
or two of isinglass to clear it; let it boil a few 
minutes^ stand it by till fine, then sweeteii t6 taste. 



s 



USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. ^iX 

Coffee, 

Four a quart of boQing water on one ounce of 
ground coffee^ let it boil a few niinutes; th^ pour 
out a cupM and rettirn it^ repeat this several 
times : dissolve five or six chips of isinglass in a 
little boiling water^ add it to the coffee, and boil it 
ten minutes longer : then stand it by, and in a few 
minutes the coffee will be perfectly clear: cream, 
and Lisbon sugar should be served with coffee. 

^ Rice milk. 

Rub down a little ground rice, miJ^ it with two 
quarts of milk, and boil it, add lemon-peel, cinna- 
mon, and nutmegs when nearly done, sweeten it 
agreeable to taste. 

Milk porridge. 

Prepare a fine gruel of split giits, strain it, and 
then add a sufficiency of milk^ and sarve with toast. 

Baked milk. 

This is an excellent article for weak or consump* 
tive persons. Put half a gallon of milk into a jar, 
tie it down with writing-paper, and after the bread 
is drawn, let it stand all night in the oven 5 the next 
morning it will acquire the thickness of cream, and 
may be drank as occasion requires. 

Artificial asses* milk. 

The real should be taken, if it can be possibly 
procured^ but, if not, the following imitation must 
serve : mix four spoonsful of boiling water, four of 
milk, and two well beaten eggs, sweeten with white 
sugar-candy, powdered. T&e it three times dai^. 



i 



•'^ 



i 



11^ DOMESTIC COOKERY, AND 



Water gruel. 

Put a laige spoonful uf oatmeal into a pint of 
water, stir it wc^ together, and let it boil three or* 
four times stirring it often. Then strain it through 
a sieve, salt it to the palate, and. put in a large piece 
of fresh butter. Brew it with a spoon till the butter 
is all melted, and it will be then fine and smooth. 

Cranberry gruel. - 

Mesh half a pint of cranberries in some water, 
and boil a large spoonful of oatmeal in two quarts 
of watery then put in the meshed cranberries with 
some sugar and lemon peel, boil it forty minutes, 
and strain it off) add a glass of brandy, or sweet 
wine. 

Currant gruel. 

Make a quart of water gruel, strain and boil it 
with two table-spoonsful of currants till they are 
quite plump, add some nutmeg, sugar, and a glass 
of sweet wine. 

Fever drink. 

Boil three ounces of currants, two of raisins 
carefully stoned, and an ounce and a half of tama- 
rinds, in three pints of water, till it is reduced to a 
quart, strain it, throw in a bit of lemon-peel, and 
let it stand an hour. 

Draught for a cough. 

Beat two fresh eggs, mix them with half a pint 
of new milk warmed, two table spoonsful of ca- 
pillaire, the same quantity of rose-water, and a 
little nutmeg. Observe, it must not be warmed 
after the egg is added. I'ake it the fh-st and last 
thing. 



/ / 



USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK ^i3 



A pleasant drink. 

Into a pint of cold water^ pour two table spoons- 
ful of capillaire^ and the same quantity^ of Tineg^r. 

Barley water. 

' Boil a quarter of a pound of pearl-barley in a 
gallon of water^ till it is quite soft and white, thea 
strain off the water, and add to it a little currant 
jelly, lemon, or milk. 

Or, 

Wash a little common, barley, and let it simmer 
in three or four pints of water with a little lemon- 
peel. Xbis is preferable to pearl-barley. 

Apple water. 

Feel and slice some tart apples, add some sugar 
and lemon-peel 5 then poiu* some boiling water over 
the whole, let it stand in a covered jug by the fire 
for an hour or more, when it will be fit for use. 

Or, 

Pour boiling water on roasted apples ; let them 
stand three hours, then strain and sweeten lightly. 

Lembn water. 

Peel some lemon rind very thin,' put it in a tea-pot, 
and pour on some boiling water; pour it out into a 
cup, with some milk and sugar. 

Or, 

Peel a lemon, cut a few slices, pour boiling water 
upon it, and it will soon be fit for use: this \8 proper' 
to drink in a fever. 



^\6 DOMESTIC COOKEBT, AND 

Bread soup. 

Boil some pieces of bread-crust in a quart of 
water, with a small piece of butter, beat it up 
with a spooD, and keep it boiling till the bread and 
water be well mixed ; dien add a little salt. 

Slewed prunes. 

Stew them gently in a small quantity of wato* ^M 
the stones will slip out ; but, olMenre, they must not 
be boiled too much. These are usefiii' in any com- 
plaint where fruit is propo*, especially in fevers. 



FAMILY 

MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 



Camphorated oil. 

Beat two ounces of camphor in a mortar with four 
ounces of Florence oil, till the camphor is perfectly 
dissolved : this makes an excellent liniment for the 
rheumatism, and other cases of extreme pain. 

Basilicon, 

Take of bees-wax, white rosin, and frankincense, 
four ounces each, melt them well together over a 
slow fire, then add the ^ame weight of fresh lard, 
and strain it into your jar while warm : this oint- 
ment is of great use in cleansing andbealing wounds 
and ulcers, 

• Cerate, 

Take of white wax, and calumine stone, finely 

powdered, each one pound, and three pints of olive 

ell } let the calumine be rubbed smooth with somfe 

^M)e oil, and added to the remainder of the oil and 

jKx, which should be previously melted together :^ 



USEFUL BECElPT BOOK. 217 , 

you must observe to stir them continually till cold, 
when you will have an excellent cerate. 

Fomentations, 

Boil four ounces each of cammomil& flowers and , 
the tops of wormwood in a gallon of water , pour 
ofiP the liquor, p.ut it again on the fire ; dip in a bit 
of flannel, and apply it to the part as warm as the 
patient can bear it ; when this grows cold, dip in i 

another piece of flannel, and continue to repeat this V 

till the part is eased, observing that, as you change 
the flannel, you must not let th^ air get to the af- 
fected part. 

For the tooth-ache, or any other acute pain, the 
following anodyne fomentation may be made use of: 
take four ounces of white poppy heads, and one 
ounce of elder flowers, boil them in three quarts of 
water till reduced to one -, then strain off the liquor, 
and proceed as above.' 

Lip-salve, 

Put in a jar four ounces of white wax, one ounce ^ 
of spermaceti, and half a pint of oil of sweet almonds, 
cover it close, and put it in a saucepan with as 
much water as will nearly reach the top of the jar, 
let it boil till the wax is melted (but observe, none 
of the water must boil over the jar ;) then put in a 
small quantity of alkanet root tied up in a bag, 
dose the jar again, and boil it tiU it becomes red ; 
remove the alkanet root, and add a little essence of 
lemon, or bergamot -, run it into your pots, and keep 
it for use. 

A clyster. 

A common clyster is composed of some strained 
gruel, and a large spoonful of salt or oiL A grown* • 
person should have a pint injected. ^ 



^18 D0JiK8TIC COOKERY, AND 



Fumigation. 

To make a vapour for a sore throaty boil a quart 
of vinegar, and two ounces of myrrh tc^tho-, for 
forty minutes, then pour the liquor into a bason ; 
cover the bason with a large funnel, the small end 
of which must be taken into the mouth, by vhicb 
means the fiunes will be inhaled. This process 
must be renewed every twenty minutes^ and if re- 
gularly persbted in^ it will seldom Saul to remove 
the most obstinate sore throat or quinsy^ if opening 
medicine is taken at the same time. 

Gargles. 

Common gargles may be prepared of figs boiled 
in milk -and water, with a small quantity of sal- 
ammoniac ; or^ sage tea, with honey and vinegar 
mixed together ; or^ infuse some red rose leaves, 
either fresh or dry, in some boiling water, and 
when they have stood an hour^ drain off the liquor, 
and add a few drops of the oil of vitriol -, gar^e 
^e throat with either of the above four or five 
times every day^ taking some opening medicine. 

Liniments. 

Take an ounce of Florence oil^ and half an 
ounce of the spirit of hartshorn, shake them in a 
bottle well together ; then moisten a piece of fl|m- 
nel with the liniment, and apply it to the throat 
every four hours. After bleeding, it rarely fails to 
carry off the complaint. This is one of the best 
remedies for a quinsy or inflammation of the throat j 
if some strong opening medicine is taken at the 
same time. 
An excellent liniment for the piles may be pre- 
red from one ounce of emollient ointment, and 




USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 219 



a quarter bf an- ounce of laudanum j mix them 
with the yolk of an egg well together. 

Marmalade, 

Beat three ounces of Malaga raisins to a fine 
paste with the same quantity of sugar-candy^ add ' 
half an ounce of the conserve of roses, twelve 
drops of oil of vitriol, and ten drops of oil of sul- 
phur; mix the whole well together, and take a 
small tea-spoonful night and morning. This will 
be found an excellent remedy for a cough or cold. 

Lime water. 

Four four gallons of water upon two pounds of 
new quick lime, stir them well together, 'and let it 
remain till the lime is perfectly settled ; then filter 
the liquor through paper, and boLtle it for use, 
observing to keep it closely corked. It is a good 
remedy for the gravel, for which purpose a pint of 
it- may be drunk every day. 

Spermaceti ointment. 

Take half a pint of fine sallad oil, half a pound 
of white wax, and an ounce of spermaceti ; melt 
the whole over a gentle fire, and keep it stirring till 
the, ointment is cold. 

Opening pills. 

Take four drachms of Castile soap and the same 
quantity of succotrine aloes^ make it into pills with 
a sufficient quantity of common syrup. 

Or, 

Take four drachms of the extract of jalap, th^ 
same quantity of vitriolated tartar, and form it into 
pills with syrup of ginger : five of the above piUil 



290 DOMESTIC COOKERY, AND 



'Will be sufficient for a pur^; but to keep tiie 
body gently open, one may be taken night and 
morning. 

Composing pills. 

Take ten grains of purified opium; and half a 
drachm of Castile soap, beat them well together, 
and make it into twenty pills, two of which, when 
taken will have a good effect. 

J common poultice 

Is made of white bread boiled in water till suffi- 
ciently thick, when a little sweet oil must be added. 
Observe, water is better than milk. 

Or, 

A poultice to ripen swellings should be made of 
four ounces of white lily-roots, a pound of figs, 
and four ounces of meal or bean flour, boil the 
above in water, till sufficiently thick ; then apply it 
to the diseased part while warm, and change it as 
often as it becomes dry. 

Carrot poultice 

Consists simply of carrots grated with water, so 
as to form a pulp: this is an excellent poultice 
to relieve pain arising from a sore, which it also 
cleanses, and removes the offensive smell : it is also 
good for cancers, and should be changed twice 
45very day 

Carminative powder. 

Take an ounce of coriander seeds, four drachms 
of fine sugar, two drachms of ginger, and one 
drachm of nutmeg, powder them and mix them 
together for twenty-four doses. This is an excel- 
lent remedy for flatulencies. 



USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 2^1 



Tooth-powder^ 

Take four ounces of charcoal^ beat and sift it 
fine^ and mix it with two ounces of powder of bark. 
This forms a most excellent tooth-powder. 

Sinapisnu. 

A sinapism consists of a poultice made of vinegar^ 
instead of milk and water, and rendered warm and 
stimulating by the addition of garlic, mustard, 
horse'-radish, &c. To make a common sinapism, 
take crumbs of bread and mustard, an equi^ 
quantity, and mix it into a poultice with strong 
vinegar but should it be required still more power- 
ful, add a little bruised garlic. Sinapisms are 
employed in cases of palsy, sciatica, &c. &c. 
Tliey are also useful when the gout attacks the 
head or stomach, when, if applied to the feet, they 
will frequently bring the disorder down -, but 
observe, they should not be suffered to remain on 
till they raise blisters, but only till they make the 
part red. 

Aromatic tincture. 

Take four oundbs of Jamaica pepper, infuse it for 
eight days in half a gallon of good brandy; then ' 
' strain it off, and bottle it for use. 

Tincture of rhubarb. 

Take five ounces of rhubarb, and one otmce of 
lesser cardamom seeds, let them steep for ten days 
in half a gallon of brandy: then stndn off the 
tincture. To make the bitter tincture of rhubarb, 
add two ounces of gentian root, and two, drachms 
of snake root. Thb tincture is very beneficial' in 
cases of indigestion, pain, or weakness of the sto- f . 
mach ', and four spoonsfhl may be taken every dayj^* 

uS 




dSS DOMKSTIC COOKERY^ AND 



Worm-powder. 

Woxv^fowder is made of an ounce of tin finely 
powderedr tnd two drachms of £thiop*s mineral^ 
mixed toge^btfj divide it into six parts or doses^ and 
take one of mem in .a little syrup twice a day : 
when they are '^wd^ work them off with a little 
rhubarb. **/ ^ 

Compound tincture of bark. 

Take four ounces of Peruvian bark powdored, 
one ounce of Seville-orange peel^ and the same 
quantity of bruised cinnamon, infiise the whole in 
three pints of good brandy^ let it stand in a close 
vessel eight days -, then strain it off; Take two tea- 
spoonsful twice a day in a glass of port wine, 
sharpened with a few drops of spirits of vitriol. 
This is an excellent remedy for intermitting fevers, 
also in nervous and putrid fevers, especially towards 
their decline. 

Tar-water, 

Four half a gallon of water on one pound of clean 
tar, and stir it till it is thoroughly mixed, let it 
settle, and when it becomes fine, pour off the water 
for use 3 a half tumbler-fiill taken four times a day> 
will be beneficial in cases of asthma, and extremely 
useful to public speakers. < 

Freckles on the face. 

To disperse them, take two ounces of lemon- 
juice, half a drachm of powdered borax, and one 
drachm of sugar, mix them together, and let them 
stand a few days in a glass bottle till the liquor is 
fit for use ; then rub it on the hands and face oc- 
casionally. 




UREFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 2^ 

To remove chaps 

Rub the part at bed time with a little unscented 
pomatum^ and let it remain till the morning 5 or, 
which is still better, rub the face and hands with 
honey-water, made as thick as cream, which will 
fbrm a kind of varnish on the skin, and effectually 
protect it from cold. 

Head-ache. 

This unpleasant pain may be prevented by wear- 
ing the hair short, and by washing the head daily 
with cold water 3 then rub the hair dry^ and expose 
it to the air. 

Weak eyes 

May be relieved by washing them frequently 
in cold water -, or ^ssolve four grsuns of the 
sugar of lead, and crude sal ammoniac in eight 
ounces of water ; to which add a few drops of 
laudanum, and with this mixture bathe the eyes 
night and morning.-— Rose w^ter is also good for 
the eyes. 

r 

Inflamed eyes. 

Leeches shotild be applied to the temples, and 
when the bleeding has ceased, a small blister ttittf 
be applied, and a little opening medicine taken. 
Shaving the head, and bathing the feet in itarm 
walibr, will in some cases, be found very beneficiaL 

Bleeding at the nose. 

Violent bleeding at the nose may be generally 
stopped by plugging the nostril with lint dipped in 
strong vinegar, applying, at the same time, clot^ 
wetted with cold water, externally. Should this 
fail, surgical aid should be then had recourse to. 



r 



224 DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AMD 

M^— — ■—— f — 



Deafness. 

Take an ounce of the oil of sweet almonds, and 
the same quantity of camphorated spirits af wine 
mix them weU together, pour a few drc^ into the 
ear every night, and put in a bit of cotton. Ob- 
serve, whatever may be the cause of deafness, the 
head should be always kept warm. 

Or, 

Steep a table-spoonfiill of bay-salt in half a pint 
of spring water, twenty-four hours. When the salt 
is perfectly dissolved, pour a tea-spoonfiill of the 
solution into the affected ear, for eight or nine suc- 
cessive nights, while in bed^ observing to lay your 
head oh the opposite side. This i^ generally 
effect a cure. Should an insect get into the ear, 
drop in a few drops of sweet oil, wluch will effec- 
tually destroy it. 

TooihHtch. 

The best preventative to this painful disorder is 
to keep the teeth very clean. Some cotton moist- 
ened with laudanum, and laid on the affected tooth, 
will sometimes remove the pain. If the gums be 
inflamed, bleeding by leeches wiU remove the pain ; 
and if the tooth is hollow, it should be constantly 
filled with fibe white wax. 

Corns, 

To prevent corns, wear easy shoes, and bathe 
the feet with luke-warm water, with a little salt 
dissolved in it. Corns may be effectually removed 
by rubbing them every day with a litUe caustic 
solution of pot-ash> till a soft and pliable skin is 
formed. 




USEFUL RECEIPT ROOK. 225 



An ointment for sore nipples. 

Take two ounces of diachylon^ one ounce of 
olive pilj and half an ounce of vinegar, boil them 
together over a gentle fire, stirring them till they 
are become an ointment ; then pour it in your jar, 
and apply a little of it to the sore nipple occasion- 
ally, on a fine linen rag. If any fever accompa- 
nies the soreness of the nipple, it may be checked 
by the use of bark in electuary four times a day, 
each dose of which should be about the size of a 
nutmeg. 

Ague. 

On the first attack of ague, the patient should 
instantly take an emetic, and a little opening medi- 
cine. While the shaking fits continue drink plenty 
of warm gruel, and afterwards take some port- 
wine and sack -, or, when the fit is on, take an egg 
beaten up in a glass of brandy, and go to bed im- 
mediately. 

Asthma. 

The diet and exercise should be light, a dish of 
very strong coffee, without sugar or milk, taken 
frequently, will at all times alleviate, and some- 
times remove this distressing malady. Tar water 
villi also afford considerable relief. For common 
drink, use toast and water, with a little vinegar, 
or a few grains of nitre. 

Hooping cough. 

When the cough commences, the child should be 
removed for a change of air, and the juice of 
onions applied to the soles of the feet. The diet 
should be light and nomishing, and taken in small 
quantities. Every thing druuK should be lukewum^ 



For coM^kM. 

In the cuiy stage of a eougli, orra ri m ic d bj 
cc^^ cbewing of fiqnorice, or ginn-anfaic^ will 
cxMnmooly prove effecthre ; but if it has made too 
great a progress to jidd to the abore^ a fpooahd 
of the syrup of hordkoand pat into a glass of 
qiriiig water, and mixed with ten dropB of the 
spirit oi sulphur, will generally rdieve the most 
severe ookL 

Debiiity. 

Various disorders originate in debility, and con- 
sequently it req;aires a treatment in unison with the 
cause on which it depends. The warm bath will 
generally prove beneficiaL Diet must also be 
carefully attended to, as weakly persons should be 
extremely temperate in the use of animal food, but 
they may freely indulge themsdves in the use of 
nutritious vegetables, soup, eggs, strong broth, and 
sheU fish, all of which are extremely nourishing. 
Clotliing also should be carefiiUy attended to» so 
as to preserve a moderate temperature betwe^i heat 
and cold Invalids of this description should also 
take more rest than healthy pesons, and be careful 
not to exceed in their exerdse the strength they 
possess. Their bed should be clean^ but not too 
soft 'f the apartments in which they dwells large 
and airy, and the mind should be^ kept perfectly 
calm. 



Strengtluening pills. 

Take soft extract of bark, and vitriolated iron, 
each a drachm, make it into pills with common 
syrup, and take two of them three times a day. 



USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 229 



Flatulency, 

Gentle laxatives^ moderate exercise, and a careful 
diet, are the only remedies for this unplesant dis- 
ease, which is either occasioned by intemperance 
or costiveness. 

Gout. 

The patient should abstain from all . fermented 
and spirituous liquors, and be very moderate in 
the use of wine ; all fat, rancid, and salted provi- 
sions, as well as all high seasoned dishes, should 
be carefully avoided. Barley-bread should be eaten 
constantly. Absorbent powders of two scruples of 
ma^esia^ and four grains ea<^h of purified kali and 
rhubarb, should be taken during the intervals of the 
gouty fits, and repeated every other morning for 
several weeks. The feet should be kept moderately 
warm. A gentleman of the namie of Reynolds, 
has lately discovered a cure for this dreadful 
disorder. 

Gravel, 

This disease is sometimes occasioned by the gout 
and rheumatism; it is also promoted by Ihe use of 
sour liquors, food that is difficult of digestion, espe- 
cially cheese, and by a sedentary life. Respiration 
should be promoted by gentle methods -, constant 
temperance should be observed in respect to the 
food, and moderate exercise should be taken. For 
medicine take the juice of horse radish, made into a 
thin syrup, mixing it with sugar^ of which take a 
spoonful every four hours. 

Heartburn, 

Stale liquors, and flatulent food, will promote 
this disease^ consequently they should be avoided. 




230 DOMESTIC COOKERY, AND 



Take an infusion of bark^ or a tea-spoonfiil of the 
powder of gum-arabic dissolved in a little water 
either oi which wiU equally have the desired effect. 

Indigestion. 

Persons subject to indigestion are of weak and 
delicate habits, or else of a sedentary disposition. 
The free use of cold water in drinkuig^ washing, 
and bathing, will frequently effect a cure alone. 
Drinking sea-water, mild purgatives, light food, 
early rising, and moderate exercise, will be found 
the most certain cure. 

Hiccough, 

This very impleasant sensation is in general in- 
stantly stopped by taking a tea-spoonfol of vinegar, 
or a few draughts of cold water in succession. 
Peppermint- water, mixed with a few drops of vitri- 
olic acid, will also stop the hiccough. 

Hysterics. 

Immediate relief may be aftbrded by throwing 
plenty of cold water on the face, neck, and hands, 
and also by immersing the feet in cold water at the 
same time , but, to afibct a radical cure, the cold 
Bath mineral waters, and other tonics, must be 
resorted to. 

Iliac passion. 

This terrible disease arises from spasms, violent 
exertions, eating of unripe fridt, drinking of scmr 
liquors, obstinate costiveness, and worms. The pain 
arising from it is horrible -, large blisters should be 
applied to the part where the pain is most severe ; 
emollient clysters, fomentations, and the warm bath, 
may be tried, though in many instances . this dan- 
gerous disorder will not be controuled iy medicine,. 




U8BPUL BECEIPT BOOK. 231 

fVe^uent doses of castor is however, the best and 
safest remedy that can be applied 5 but should this 
fajly quicksilver in its natural state must be made 
use of as a final trial. 

Inflammation of the bowels. 

This malady requires great care 3 should the belly 
swell, and be painful when touched, flannels dipped 
in hot water should be applied, after being wrung 
out^ or the warm bath will be useful 3 a blister 
should be applied as soon as possible, and mild 
emollient clysters injected till stools are obtained. 
The patient should be laid between blankets, and 
supplied with light gruel; and when the extreme 
-violence of the disease is abated, the pain may be 
removed by opiate clysters. But this being a dan- 
gerouB disorder, medical advice should be resisted to, 
on Us fast appearance. 

Lethargy. 

This disease may be known by a continual drow- 
siness, or inclination to sleep, and is generally at- 
tended with a certain degree of fever, and a cold- 
ness of the extremities. Blisters and emetics have 
often procured relief; well washing the head is also 
attended with advantage. 

Itch. 

Rub the affected parts with the ointment of sul- 
phur, or rub the palms of the hands, the bend in 
the arms, and imder the knees, with mercurial 
ointment on going to bed^ observing to keep the 
body moderately open, by daily taking a small dose 
of brimstone and treacle. When the cure is per- 
fect, thoroughly wash every thing that has touched 
tlie body, and well fumigate the other clothes 
with sulphur, or the inftction will again spread 



^3^ DpMESTIC COOKERY^ AND 



the disease. The dry itch requires a vegetable 
diet, and a very free use of antiscorbutics. The 
affected parts may be rubbed with a strong decoction 
of tobacco. 

Measles, 

The body should be kept open by means of ta- 
marinds^ manna^ or other gentle laxative medicines. 
Supply the patient with barley-water at near inter- 
vals^ or linseed-tea^ sweetened with honey. Bathe 
the feet in warm water, keep the body moderately 
warm, and if there is the least inclination to vomit, 
promote it by the use of camomile-tea. Should 
the complaint strike inwards, the danger may be 
prevented by immediately applying blisters to the 
arms and legs, and rubbing the whole body with 
warm flannels. 

Jaundice, 

The diet should be light and cooling, consisting 
of vegetables and ripe fruits. Some persons haye 
been cured by eating nothing but raw eggs for 
several days. Butter-milk or whey sweetened with 
honey, should form the whole drink of the patient, 
Antiscorbutics, honey, blisters, and bitters, applied 
to the region of the liver, will frequently effect a 
cure. 

Palpitation of the heart. 

Persons of a full habit of body may find relief in 
bleeding, but when it is attended with nervous 
affections (which is generally the case), bleeding 
must on no account take place. The feet should be 
frequently bathed in warm water, and a stimulating 
plaister applied to the left side, which, with gentle 
exercise, will be found the most effectual remedy. 



V 



USfiFUL RECEIPT BOOK 233 



POef. 

Should this complaint arise from costiveness, 
remove the cause by gentle purgatives; but if it 
proceeds from weakness, strong purgatives should 
be avoided. The part should be washed three times 
daily with a sptmge and cold water, and the bowels 
kept open by the mildest laxatives 5 an electuary, 
consisting of one oimce of sulphur, and half an 
ounce of cream of tartar, mixed with some treacle, 
should be taken four times a day. The patient will, 
in geneifal, find relief by sitting over the steam of 
warm water. 

Quinsy. 

Apply a large blister to the chest, or between 
the shoulders, and use gargles of sage tea, vinegar, 
and honey ; also bathe the feet in cold water, and 
use opening medicines. By doing as above, relief 
will be generally obtained 5 but if the swelling 
should increase, apply leeches to the neck, and the 
throat should be fumigated with the steam of warm 
water in which a little camphor has been dissolved. 

RJieumatism. 

Take nourishing diet, and a little generous wine, 
and carefully avoid costiveness; keep the painful 
part warm with flannel, and rub it frequently. Soft 
poultices of mustard may be applied with advan- 
tage. Should the above not succeed, take half a 
pint of spirit of turp^tine, to which add a quarter 
of an ounce of camphor 3 let the camphor dissolve, 
and then rub it on the a£fected part night and morn- 
ing, and it will rarely fail to cure. 

Note.— The latter mixture is also exceUent for 
sprains and bruises. 

x3 




d34 DOU&TIC COOKERY^ AND 



Smallpox 

Is now happily superseded by Vaccination, or, as 
it is vulgarly called, the Cow-Pox ; but if, through 
the cruel neglect of the parent, any child should 
take the natural Small-pox, it is such a dangerous 
disease, that a medical man should be employed, as 
tampering with it may occasion fatal consequences. 

Sprains, 

Foment the part with vinegar, or camphorated 
spirits of wine, to which a few drops of laudanum 
maybe added. Renew this frequently, and keep 
the part in a state of rest. 

Swoons, 

Expose the person instantly to the open air, and 
throw water on the neck and face ; volatile spirits, 
or vinegar, should also be held to the nose, and the 
feet put into warm water. 

The thrush. 

Cleanse the mouth with sage-tea, .sweetened with 
honey of roses, and mixed with a drachm of borax. 
But if it is in the stomach, great benefit may be 
derived from a decoction of carrots in water, or 
two ounces of linseed boiled in a quart of water till 
reduced to a consistence, and sweetened with four 
ounces of honey. Give a table spoonful occasion- 
ally, observing to keep the bowels gently open. 



\ 



USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. ^5 



KITCHEN GARDEN. 



JANUARY. 

Throw up some new dung to heat for hot-beds for 
early cucumbers^ &c. Dig up the ground designed 
to be sown with the spring crops^ that it may lay 
and mellow. Nurse the cauliflower-plants under 
glasses^ letting in a little air during the middle of the 
fine days -, pick up the dead leaves^ and gather the 
mould about the stalks. Make a slight hot-bed in , 
the open ground for yoimg salading^ and cover it in 
the hard weather with hoops. Plant out endive for 
seed in warm borders^ and blanch celery. Sow a 
few beans and peas. 

FEBRUABY. 

Prepare beds for radishes^ onions^ parsnips, and 
Dutch lettuce. Le^s and spinach should also be 
sown now ; also celery, beets^ marigolds, and sor- 
rel, with any other of the hardy kinds. Make up 
the hot-beds for early cucumbers, and sow cauli- 
flower seeds, and some others. Plant beans and 
peas, observing to put in a fresh crop every four- 
teen days, by which means, if one fails, another will 
succeed, and a constant supply be provided. Plant 
kidney-beans upon a hot-bed for an early crop. 
The Battersea, and dwarf white bean, are the best 
sorts. When up, admit the air in the middle of 
fine days, and water gently every other day. Trans- 
plant cabbages, plant out Silesia and cos lettuce 



3S6 DomesTic cookbbt^ and 



from the winter bed ^ and plant potatoes and Je- 
rusalem artichokes. 

MARCH. , 

Sow carrots and lai^ P^> cabbages and savoys, 
and also a second crop of parsnips and carrots. — 
Towards the end of the month, put in large quanti- 
ties of beans and peas. Sow parsley and plant 
mint. Sow cos and imperial lettuce, transplant the 
finer kinds. The last week make asparagus beds^ 
dear up the artichoke roots, slip off the weakest, 
and plaiit them out. Dig a warm border, and sow 
some French beans. 

APRIL. 

FLant French beans, cuttings of sage, and other 
aromatic plants 3 sow nlarrow-&t peas, and more 
beans for a succession ; sow thyme, sweet maijoram, 
and savory. Prepare dung for making ridges to re- 
ceive cucumber or melon-plants, designed for hand- 
glasses. Sow small-salading weekly ; and also some 
cos and Silesia lettuces. Weed the growing crops, 
hoe between the beans and peas, cabbages, cauli- 
flower plants, &c. At night, cover your cucumbers 
and melons with hand-glasses. 

MAY 

Water your beans^ peas, &c. occasionally. De- 
stroy the weeds, and hoe between the rows. Sow 
some small-salading weekly. Sow purslain and 
endive. Plant a large quantity of beiuis and peas, 
and French beans, to succeed the others. Plant out * 
savoys, cabbages, and red cabbages 5 and water 
them well. 

JUNE. 

Transplant cauliflower plants, and water them 



USEFUL RKCEIPT BOOK. 237 



well. Plant out th3rme^, and other savoury herbs. 
Sow turnips and* brocoli^ and plant out celery in 
trenches for blanching ; also endive. Destroy snails^ 
slugs^ &c. 

JULY. 

Sow French beans for a late crop^ weed the 
ground -, hoe between your peas^ beans^ cabbages^ 
and artichokes ; water occasionally -, gathei: spinach 
and Welch onion seed. Take up large onions^ and 
dry them for winter use. Clear off the stalks of 
peas and beans past bearing. Attend to your me- 
lons^ water them a little, and your cucumbers plen- 
tifiiUy. . 

AUaUST. 

Sow some spinach and onions on a warm border. 
They wiU live through the winter, and be valuable 
in the spring. In the second week, sow cabbage 
seed of the early kinds, and the week after, caiQi- 
flower seeds, the plants of which must be nursed 
under hand-gl^es during- the winter. A week af- 
terwards another crop should be sown in case of 
accidents to the first. This last crop should be de- 
fended by a hot-bed frame. Sow the cabbage and 
brown Dutch lettuce on a warm sheltered piece of 
ground. Transplant some of the earlier lettuces to 
warm sheltered borders. Take up garlick, onions, ro- 
cambole, and shalots, and dry them for winter use. 



8EPTEMBEB. 

Sow' lettuce of various kinds ; when up, shelter 
them under a sloping reed hedge, or hand-glasses. 
Make mushroom beds ; thin your . turnips -, weed 
all young plants; transplant herbs, and earth up 
celery; sow young salading upon warm borders; 



238 DOHcanc oookkbt^ avd 

dean jfltiaij gi a beds in lliis manner : cot down tiie 
tUSks, and pare llie eardi off the sarhce of the 
afleys, andtlmnr hnpon the beds lialf an inch thick, 
and sprinkle over it some dsaig from an old mekm 
bed. Ridge the groond for winter; plant some 
peas and beans on wann, well-sheltered borders^ to 
stand oot die winter. 

OCTOBKK. 

Plant out the canliilower i^ants where they are 
to be sheltered ; two under each glass, for foar one 
should foil ; sow another crop of peas and beans in 
a sheltered situation, to stand tbe winter. TVans- 
]dant lettuces under a reed hedge or wall; also 
cabbage plants and coleworts, where they are to 
remain. The cauliflowers, which now begin to shew 
their heads, must have a leaf broken in upon them 
to keep off the sun and rain. 

NOVEMBER. 

Carefully weed all late crops. Dig up a border 
under a warm wall, and sow carrots far spring — 
.also some radishes, in such another place. Turn 
the mould that was trenched up. Prepare hot-beds 
for salading; cover them five inches with mould, 
and sow upon them lettuces and small salading. 
Plant another crop of beans and peas. Trench the 
earth between your artichokes, and throw some 
earth over the roots. Make a hot-bed for forced 
asparagus. Take up carrots and parsnips, and lay 
them in sand for use. Give air occasionally to 
plants in hot-beds, and under hand-glasses. 

DECEMBER. 

Plant cabbages and savoys for seed. To do this, 
dig up a dry border, and break the mould well : 
then take up your stoutest plants, and hang them 



USEFUJb RECEIPT BOOK 239 



^p by the stalks five days^ and then plant them 
half way of the stalks into the ground^ drawing the 
earth round them like a hill. Put in another crop 
of peas and beans to take their chance. Make ano- 
ther hot-bed for asparagus. Continue to earth up 
celery, and^over your endive with pea-straw. 



THE 



MANAGEMENT OF BEES. 



Bees^ whether we consider them as beneficial to 
the poor, from the very trivial expence at which 
they are kept, and the sure returns they make, or 
as creatures which produce us a luxurious treat, 
are equally worthy of our consideration. 
' The hives should be placed in such a manner as 
to face the south, and sufficiently near the house 
to watch them, but so situated as not to be exposed 
to unpleasant smells, or too much noise. If near a 
running stream, so much the better, but if not, 
place some shallow troughs of water near them, with 
some small stones in it for them to. pitch on — for 
water is absolutely necessary to their well-being. 
Herbs, especially thyme, should be plentifully sown 
in the garden where they are kept : furze, broom, 
clover, and heath, are also excellent for bees. 

Straw hives are the best, because they keep out 
the cold better than any otibers^ and are not liable 




-— ^ 



840 DOMESTIC COOKBRY^ AND 



to be over-heated by the rays of the sun. Their 
cheapness also renders their purchase easy. 

Persons designing to keep bees^ should make 
theh* purchase at the latter part of the year, at which 
time they are cheapest. The hives should bi full of 
combs, and well stored with bees. The purchaser 
should inspect the combs, and select the whitest, 
which are always the product of that season -, and 
when the combs are very dark, that hive should be 
rejected, because the bees are old. 

Bees should never be bought during the Summer, 
or, if purchased, should on no account be removed 
from their native place tiU the Autumn. 

Bees generally swarm in April and May, but 
earlier or later according to tibe warmth of the 
season. They rarely swarm before ten o'clock in 
the morning, or later than three in the afternoon. 
If the swarm fly too high, throw some sand amongst 
them, which will cause them to descend, and when 
they settle, they should be immediately hived^ lest 
they should again take wing. 

The hive should not be immediately placed on the 
stool where it is to remain, but should be suffered 
to stand near the place where the bees were swept 
into it, tiU the evening, and shaded with some 
boughs. 

Bees are torpid during a great part of the winter, 
but revive on sunny days, in consequence of which 
a little food supports them. Every hive should 
therefore be weighed at the end of Autumn, and 
each ought then to weigh twenty pounds, but should 
any weigh less, that hive must be occasionally fed 
with honey, or sugar and water put in small troughs 
made with elder. 

Bees are generally taken in September, for which 
purpose a hole is dug in the earth, and a rag dipt 
in melted brimstone, fastened to the end :of a stick. 




USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. ^41 

is stuck in the hole so prepared. Then set it on 
fire, and instantly place the hive over it, observing 
to throw the earth up all round, to prevent the 
smoke from escaping. 

In fifteen or twenty minutes, the bees will; be 
destroyed. 

The valuable creatures thus destroyed may, how- 
ever, be preserved, by using boxes instead of hives j 
by which method two boxes of honey may be taken 
during the summer (from one colony), each weigh- 
ing forty pounds^ and yet a sufiident supply be left 
ibr the winter support of the bees in this manner 
preserved from destruction. 

Consequently it appears ' that this plan combines 
humanity with great profit, to which motives we 
may add the pleasure of seeing them at work, and 
also the trouble which is saved during the swarming 
time. 

The bees thus secured, are also much more effec- 
tually screened from wet and cold, from mice, and 
other vermin. 

The boxes should be made of deal, which, from 
its spongy nature, sucks up the breath of the bees 
sooner than a more solid wood would do. Yellow 
Dram deal, well seasoned, is the best -, and an oc- 
tagon form is preferable to a square. The boxes 
should be ten inches in depth, and fourteen in 
breadth, with a small glass window behind, with a 
thin deal oover on brass hinges, and a button to 
shut it with. 

It will be of material service, when you intend to 
keep bees, to plant a great number of gooseberry 
and currant trees, on the blossom of which they 
will find a large quantity of food. 

If bees are suffered to continue in one hive more 
than four years, they will degenerate both in num- 
bers and strength. 



r 



^42 DOMESTIC COOKEKV, AND 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



I *• 



To make soft pomatum. 

Beat a pound of fresh lard in common water^ 
then soak and beat it in two rose waters, drain it, 
and beat it with a gill of brandy j let it drain from 
this : scent with any essence you please, and keep 
it in small pots. 

~ Hard pomatum. 

Take of beef-marrow and mutton-suet^ a pound 
each^ prepare it by soaking it in water three days^ 
and observe to change and beat it well every day : 
then put it into a saucepan of water : when melted, 
pour it into a bason with a little brandy, and beat 
it well ; then add your scent, and run the whole 
into moulds ; when cold, take it from the moulds, 
and put paper roimd every roll. 

Lavender water. 

Take a quart of highly rectified spirit of wine, 
essential oil of lavender two ounces, essence of 
ambergris five drachms 5 put it all into a bottle, 
and shake it till perfectly incoroorated. 

Or, 

Put two pounds of lavender blossoms into half 
a gallon of water, and set them in a still over a 




.^>^ 



USBKUL RECEIPT BOOK. ^43 

slow fire, distill it off gently till the water is all 
exhausted ; repeat the process a second time -, then 
cork it closely down in bottles. . 

JRose water. 

When the roses are in full blossom, pick the 
leaves carefully off, and to every quart of water 
put a peck of them -, put them in a cold still over 
a slow fire, and distill very gradually 5 then bottle 
the water, let it stand in the bottle thi^ee days, and 
then cork it close. 

Milk of roses. 

Mix four ounces of oil of almonds, with half a 
gallon of rose water, and then add forty drops of 
the o^ of tartar. 

Hungary water. 

Put some rosemary flowers into a glass retort, 
and pour on them as much spirits of wine as the 
flowers will imbibe : dilute the retort well, and let 
the flowers stand for six days 5 then distUl in a sand 
heat. 

Honey water. 

To every quart of rectified spirits of wine, put 
six drachms of essence of ambergris -, pour it into 
a bottle and shake it well daUy. 

Windsor soap. 

Cut some new white soap into thin slices, melt 
it over a slow fire, and scent it with oil of caraway, 
or any other agreeable scent 5 when perfectly dis- 
solved pour it into a mould, and let it remain a 
week, then cut it into such sized squares as you 
may require. 



Mi 



T» tmkt ma muldem: from 2»eft. 



» wanAi Bi&L, acBd tbt pact id « ksaoB, 
ftepBTKHi todb iades «^ a hrodi 
<M» dbe gFHK, dar and xn^tty laD litf: 

Ii^n-flKHdfc lan' be reoHrrcd bj tlbe 
of lif f MaDT fitduas monr be 




Ai( dave or isar tima. StuB§ cashed bjacuk 
nuij be remored bj tjia^ Mane peari-ash op ia tbe 
fUimed fHift; tbea scEqie Maae soap ia soBMcold 
•oft water, and boil tbe liaea tiQ die staia is goae. 



To make old wriiimg legiUe. 

Take «& bnik><ed galls^ and pot tbcm to a pint of 
tUtmg white wme: staad it m tbe sue forty-eigfat 
boon 'f tfaeo dip a brush into it, and wadi the writ- 
ing, and bj the ooloor yon will discover whether 
jour mixture is ttroag enau^ of the gaUs. 

To preserve a granary from insects and weasels. 
Lei the floor be made of Lombardy poplars. 

To destrof crickets. 
LoLj Scotch snuff upon their holes. 

To varnish drawings or card-work. ' 

Boil some parchment in clear water in a glazed 
pipkin^ till it becomes a fine clear size^ strain, and 
keep it for use; give your work two coats of the 
above^ observing to do it quickly and lightly 5 
when dry apply your varnish. 



USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. ^45 





To clean paintingi, 

Oil-p^ting frequently becomes soiled with smoke 
or dirt^ when they must be treated with great care ; 
dissolve a small' quantity of common salt in some 
stale urine ; dip a woollen cloth in the liquid^ and 
mb the paintings over with it^ till they are quite 
clean^ then wash them with a sponge and clean 
water^ dry them gradually^ and rub them over with 
a clean cloth. 

To cleaifi silver. 

Lay it piece by piece upon a charcoal fire^ and 
when warm^ take them off^ and boil themjn tartar 
and water^ which will make your silver furnitiu-e 
look equal to new. 

Or, 

Use simple whiting finely powdered, and moist- 
ened with rectified spirits of vidne. 

. To take ink out of mahogany. 

Take a little diluted vitriol, and touch the part 
with a feather } then rub it quickly, and if not quite 
removed, repeat the same. 

Lookingmglasses. 

To renew the lustre of glaisses which are tar- 
nished, nothing more is necessary than to rub them 
over with a linen bag containing some powdered 
blue. 

To extract oil from boards or stone. 

Make a strong lye of pearl-ashes, to which add 
as much unslacked lime as will take up 3 mix it 
well, let it settle, and then bottle it for use : when 
you use it, lower it with water, and scour the 

yS 



1M6 ^ommtTtc coomMMY, 



boards, or sfone^ wfaick fiwnld ahnifs be doae 
<|iikkly, or it wffl tike oat the coloor ham At 



To take mm simms cmi ofwtmiVe. 

Mix eqpMl quDtitiet of spmt of Titriol 
joioe, dbdke it well ; wet die spots, and m. m few 
ironntes, nd> with soft linen, till they are gooe. 

To makefmmiimre paste, 

Scn4;ie half a pound of bees' wax into a basoo, 
and add as modi qiirits of torpentine as wiD mcHSten 
it tbrougb, and when this is dissolved, add half an 
ounce of powdered rosin, and as mndi Ini£an red 
as win give it a fine mahogany ooloor, stir it op, 
and it will be fit for use. 

To take ncit oui ofsUeL 

Rub the stedL well with sweet ofl, and in fbrtj- 
eight hours, rub it well with unslairkfd powdered 
lime, till Uie rust disafypears. 

To preserve fire irons, Icnioes, iscfrom rutt 

Purchase at the chemist's some stuff vulgarly 
called ali-guentum, and rub your articles with it; 
and let them remain till wanted ; then wipe it off, 
and the polish will be instantly restored by robbiiig 
them with unslacked powdered lime. 

To mend iron poU, 

To repair cracks, &c. in iron pots or pans, mix 
some finely sifted lime with well beaten whites of 
affgi^ till reduced to a paste; then add some iron 
file dust, and apply the composition to the ihjuied 
part, and it will soon become hard, and. fit for use. 



V8EFVL RECEIPT BOOK. ^7 



To mend broken glassi 

Take two quarts of litharge, one of quick lime, 
and one of flint-glass, each separately and very 
finely powdered, and work the whole up into a 
paste with drying oil. This is an excellent cement 
for china or glass, and only becomes the harder by 
being immersed in water. 

Cement for china 

Powder lime, and sift it through some very fine 
muslin 5 then tie some in a thin bit of muslin, wet 
the edges of the broken china with some white of 
^^ ^SS> ^^^ ^^ 1^^ qtSckly- on, and unite the 
pieces 

To prevent the creaking of a door. 

This noise may be immediately removed by rub- 
bings soap or oil on the hinges. 

To make starch 

Peel and grate a quantity of potatoes, put the 
pulp into a coarse cloth between two boards, and 
press it into a dry cake 5 the juice thus pressed 
out of the potatoe must be mixed with an equal 
quantity of water, and in an hour*s time, it will 
deposit a fine sediment, which may be used as 
starch 

Ink, 

Take two gallons of soft water, and a pound 
and a half of bruised blue galls ; infuse them one 
month, observing to sthr them daily ; then add half 
a pound each of green copperas, logwood chips, 
gum arable, and a gill of brandy. 

Portable glue* 

Take half a pound of fine glue, boil and strain 
it dear, then boil two ounees of isinglass ; put it 



S48 DOMBtTIC COOKXBT^ AND 



in a double glue-pot with four ounces of fine brown 
•ngar^ and boil it pretty thick 3 then pour it out 
Into plates^ when cold, cut them into small pieces 
for the pocket, and diy them. This is anexodlent 
dement for paper, as it instantly dissolves in warm 
water, and fastens the paper very firmly. 

Gleaning tteel stoves. 

Stoves may be admirably cleaned in a few mi- 
nutes, by using a small portion of fine corned 
emery-stone; and afterwards finishing with flour 
of emery or rotten-stone, either of which may be 
obtained at any ironmonger's. 

To clean stone-stairs, 

. Boil together half a pint each of size and stone- 
blue water, with two table-spoonsful of whiting, 
and two cakes of pipe-maker's clay in about two 
quarts of water. Wash the stones over with a 
flannel slightly wetted in this mixture ; and whesa 
dry, rub them with flannel and a brusb. Some 
persons recommend beer, but water is much bet- 
ter for the purpose. 

Best method of cleaning floor-cloths. 

After sweeping and cleaning the floor-cloths 
with a broom and damp flannel, in the usual man- 
ner, wet them over with milk, and rub them till 
beautifully bright> with a dry cloth. They will 
thus look as well as if they were rubbed first with 
a waxed flannel, and afte^Arards with a dry one ; 
without being so slippery, or so soon clogging 
with dust or dirt. 

Useful properties of charcoal. 

All sorts oi glasjs vessels and other utensils may 
>>c purified from long detained smells of every 



trSEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. ^49 

kind^ in the easiest and most perfect manner^ by 
rinsing them out well with charcoal powder, after 
the grosser impuritives have been scoured oflF with 
sand and potash. Rubbing the teeth^ and washing 
out the mouthy with fine charcoal powder, will 
render the teeth beautifully white, and the breath 
perfectly sweet, where an oflFensive breath has 
been owing to a scorbutic disposition of the gums. 
Putrid water is immediately deprived of its offensive 
smell by charcoaL 

To make spruce beer. 

This cheap and wholesome liquor is thus made : 
take of water sixteen gallons, and boil the half of 
it; put the water thus boiled, while in full heat, 
to the reserved cold part, which should b% pre- 
viously put into a barrel, or other vessel ; then add 
sixteen pounds of treacle or molasses, with a few 
table spoonsM of the essence of spruce, stirring 
the whole well together ; add half a pint of yeast, 
aiid keep it in a temperate situation, with the 
bunghole open, for two days, till 'the fermentation 
be abated 3 then close it up, or bottle it off, and 
it will be fit to drink in a few days afterwards.' 

To perfume linen. 

Rose leaves dried In the shade, oloves beat to a 
jpowder, and mace scraped; mix them together, 
and put the composition into little hafrs. 

To raise the surface of velvet. 

Warm a smoothing Iron moderately^ and cover 
it with a wet cloth, and hold it under th^ velvet j 
the vapour arising from the heated cloth will raise 
the pile of the velvet with the assistance of a rush- 
whisk. 



M 



250 DOMESTIC COOKERY^ AND 



To prevent the tooth^ache 
Clean the teeth well and regularly 

Rules for preserving the teeth and gums. 

The teeth are bones^ thinly covered over with a 
fine enamel/ and this enamel is more or less sub- 
stantial in different persons. Whenever this enamd 
is worn t)irough by too coarse a powder^ or too 
freciuent cleaning the teeth^ or eaten through by a 
scorbutic humour in the gums^ the tooth cannot 
remain long sounds any more than a filbert kernel 
can^ when it has been eaten by a worm. 

The teeth^ therefore^ are to be cleaned^ but with 
great precaution, for if you wear the enamel off 
fastet by cleaning the outside than nature supplies 
it within, your t^th will sufier more by this me- 
thod than perhaps by a total neglect. A butcher's 
skewer, or the wood with which they are made, 
must be bruised, and bit at the end, till with a little 
use, it will become the softest and best brush for 
this purpose, and in general you must clean your 
teeth with this brush alone, without any powder 
whatever 3 and once in # fortnight, or oftener, dip 
your skewer brush into a few grains of gunpowder, 
breaking them first with the brush, and this will 
remove every spot and blemish, and give your teeth 
an inconceivable whiteness. It is almost needless 
to say that the mouth must be well washed after 
this operation, for besides the necessity of so doing, 
the salt-petre, &c. used in the composition of gun- 
powder, would, if it remains, be injurious to the 
gums and teeth ; but has not^ nor can have^ any bad 
effect in so short a time. 

To prevent the ill effects of charcoal^ 
Set an uncovered vessel, filled with boiling Mrater^ 



USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 251 

over the pan containing the charcoal^ the vapour of 
which will counteract the deleterious furaes, and, 
while it keeps boiling, will make charcoal as safe as 
any other fiiel. 

To prevent the rheumatism. 

For the sake of bright and polished stoves, do not, 
when the weather is cold, refrain from making fires. 
There is not a more useful recipe for health to the 
inhabitants of this climate^ than '* to follow your 
feelings.'* 

To cure disease in apple trees. 

Brush off the white down, clear off the red stain 
underneath it, and anoint the places infected ^h a 
liquid mixture of train oil and Scotch snuff. 

/ 

To prevent hares and rabbits barking trees. 

Take any quantity of tar, and six or seven times 
as much grease, stirring and mixing them well to-, 
gether^ with this comjA^sition brush the stems of 
young trees> as high as hares, &c. can reach 5 and 
it will effectually prevent their being barked. 

To stain leather gloves. 

Those different pleasing hues of yellow, brown, 
or tan colour, are readily imparted to leather gloves 
by the following simple process : Steep safiron in 
boiling hot soft water for about twelve hours; then, 
having slightly sewed up the tops of the gloves, to 
prevent the dye fi-om staining the insides, wet them 
over with a sponge or soft brush dipped into the 
liquid. The quantity of saffron, as well as of water, 
will of course depend on how much dye may be 
wanted ; and their relative proportions^ on the depth 



959 DQMBSTIC COOKEET, AND 

of colour required A common tea-cop wUl eontam 
sufficient in quantity for a single pair of gloves. 

Nankeen dye. 

Boil equal parts of amatto and common potash, 
in water till the whole are dissolved. This will 
produce the pale reddish buff so much in use> and 
sold under the name of Nankeen dye. 

• 

To dye cotton a fine huff. 

Let the twist or yam be boiled in pure wator^ 
to cleanse it 3 then wring it^ run it through a di- 
luted solution of iron liquor 3 wring, and run it 
through lime water to raise it ^ wring it again, and 
run it through a solution of starch and water ; then 
wring it once more, and dry, wind, warp, and 
weave for use. 

Substitute for cream. 

Where cream or milk cannot be got, it is an ex- 
cellent substitute to beat up the whole of a fresh 
egg, in a bason, and then gradually to pour boiling 
tea over it, to prevent its curdling. It is difficult, 
from the taste, to distinguish the composition from 
tea and rich cream. This is the usual substitute for 
milk at sea, as eggs may be.preserved fresh. 

Preserving fruit all the year, 

TaVe of saltpetre one pound, of bole-armoniac 
two pounds, of common sand, well freed from its 
earthy parts, four pounds, and mix all together. 
After this, let the fruit be gathered with the hand 
before it is thoroughly ripe, each fruit being handled 
only by the stalk 5 lay them regularly, and in order, 
in a large wide-mouthed glass vessel 5 then cover 
the top of the glass with an oiled paper^ and canying 



USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. ^55 



it into a dry place, set it in a box filled all round, 
to about four inches thickness, with the aforesaid 
preparation, so that no part of the glass vessel shall 
appear^ being in a manner buried in the prepared 
nitre ; and at the end of a year, such fruits may be 
taken out, as beautiful as when they were first put in. 

To purify water. 

I 

This method is extremely simple, and consists 
of placing horizontally, in the midst of a common 
water-butt, a false bottom, perforated with a great 
niunber of small holes. The butt being thus di- 
vided into two equal parts, the upper is fiUed with 
pieces of charcoal, which must be neither too large 
nor too small, thoroughly burned, light, and wdil 
washed. Immediately under the cock, by which 
the water enters the butt, must be placed a wooden 
bowl, being merely to break the force of the water, 
and prevent it from falling on the charcoal with 
such violence as to detach from it any particles 
of dirt, and wash them through into the lower 
receptacle. 

To prevent the Ul effects of lamp'Oil, 

Let a sponge, three or four inches in diameter, be 
moistened with pure water, and in that state be 
suspended by a string or wire, exactly over the flame 
of the lamp, at the distance of a few inches j this 
substance will absorb all the smoke emitted during 
the evening or night, after which it should be rinsed 
in warm water, by which me^S' it will be again 
rendered fit for use. 

\ * ■ 
1 

Valuable effects of red spurge. 

Warts, or corns anointed with the juice of this 
plant, presently disappear. A drop of it put into 



'i 



9M SOMBSTIC COOKKBTy AKD 

the bollaw of a decayed aifd adiiiig tDolh, destroji 
the nerve, and co ns eqocntiy Rmofres the pain. 
Some people nib it bdiind the eara that it may 
blitteF^ and by that means give relief 

EgceUemi Blaekimg. 

Take eight ounces of iTory Uack, six ounces of 
treacle^ six table-spoonsfiil of sweet oil, and thne 
of oil of Titrk^ ; mix the above ingre d ie ut B well 
together with a quart of yine^ar, and botde it : in a 
week's time, it will be fit for ose. 



To ohmiaU the smells of privies, etc 

Water in which lime has been sladced, must be 
mixed with a ley of ashes, or soa^y water that hss 
been used in washing, and then thrown into the 
sink of the privy, it will destroy the c^Bmnve 
smelL By these means, for the value of a few 
pence, any collection of filth whatever may be 
neutralized. 

For the night-chair of sick persons, put within 
the vessel half a pound of quicklime, half an ounce 
of powdered sal-ammoniac, and one pint of water ; 
this will prevent any disagreeable smdl. 

To dye silk a fair blue. 

Take white silk, and soak it in water, then hav- 
ing wrung the water out, add eight ounces of woad> 
four ounces of indigo, and one ounce of alum; 
then gently warm and dissolve them in the water, 
after which dip your materials till the coknir has 
taken. 

To clean calico furniture, when taken down for the 

summer. 

First shake off the loose dirt, and slightly brtitti 
the article with a stnall long haired furniture bniulh; 




USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 955 

L ' . " ' ■ ■ ■ I I ■ ■ ^ 

then wipe it with clean flannels, and rub it well 
with, dry bread. If this is. properly executed, the 
furniture will appear as fresh as it was when new. 

To clean chairs. 

Drop some linseed oil upon a wooU^i rag, and 
rub the chairs with it^ then rub them hard with a 
dry cloth till they appear bright, after which rub 
some yellow wax on a hard brushy and brush them 
all over ; then rub them well with a rough woollen 
doth^ and they will look equal to new ones. As 
little oil as possible should be used in cleaning chairs 
or tables. 

Portable balls to take out grease spots. 

Take some perfectly dry Fuller's earth, and 
moistai it well with lemon juice -, add a small quan- 
tity of pure pearl-ash, well powdered, and work 
the whole into a thick paste. Roll this into small 
balls, each about the nze of a marble, and dry 
them well in the sun, after which they are fit for 
iise. The method of using them, is, by moistening 
with water the spots upon the cloth, then rubbing 
the ball over^ after which let it dry in the sun, then 
brush it off, and the spots will disappear 

A liquid to remove spots, ^c. 

In a quart of spring-water dissolve two ounces 
of pure pearl-ash . to which add two lemons cut 
into small pieces, mix tl^s well^ and keep it in a 
warm state two days^ then strain it off, and keep 
it in a bottle closely stopped for use. To use it, 
potu: a little upon the stained part, and the moment 
the spot disappears, wash the part in cold water. 
This is a most usefid article to remove pitchy 
grease^ &c. 



956 DOM KSTIC COOKSmT, AND 

To clean pami. 

A doth should never be used for this pmpofle, 
remove the dust with a small long haired brash, 
having previously blown off the loose parts with 
the bellows. A careful attention to this will cause 
paint to look well a long time. When it is soiled, 
dip a bit of flannel into soda and water, and wash 
it quickly, then dry it immediately. 

To clean windows 

Rub them well over with a damp linen doth, and 
then with a dry one, after which dightly dust them 
over with a little powdered whitening in a muslin 
rag, which must be deaned off with a piece of wash 
leather, or dry cloth^ and the windows vnH then 
look beautif uL 

To clean silk furniture. 

Brush it clean until all the spots are taken out 
then take as much bran as the size of the silk re- 
quires, and having dried it well before the fire, add 
to it one ounce of powder blue ; then lay the silk 
articles on a proper place, and rub them till they 
are clean ^ then brush them three different times, 
and they will look as well as new. 

To wash scarlet cloaks. 

Boil a quantity of fuller's earth in water, then take 
it off the fire, and let it stand till lukewarm ; after 
which wash the cloaks in it, and when they are 
clean rinse them in cold water. 

To wash black silks, 

iVarm some small beer, and mix some milk with 
it, then wash your silk in this liquid, and it will 
give it a fine colour. 



USEFUL RBCBIPT BOOK. 257 

To wash thread and cotton stockings 

Both these must have two lathers and a boil^ and 
the water must be well blued. When this is done^ 
wash them out of the bcfil, after which^ fold them 
up very smooth without rinsings and press them 
under a weight forty minutes^ and when they are 
quite dry, roll them up without ironing. 

Worsted stockings must be washed in two cool 
lathers, till they are quite clean, (but do not put 
any soap upon them) then rinse them well, hang 
them up, and, when dry, fold them for use. 

To wash sUk handkerchiefs. 

These must be first washed in cold water ; and 
the second lather must be only lukewarm; then 
rinse them in cold water, dry them gently, and 
send them to the mangle. 

Substitute for table-beer. 

As small beer frequently turns sour in warm' 
weather, an excellent substitute may be made by 
adding a bottle of porter to two gallons of water, 
and a pound 9f brown sugar. When well mixed, 
bottle off the liquor, and keep it loosely corked; in 
a warm cellar. In three days it will be fit for use. 
The addition of a spoonful of ginger wiU give it a 
lively and agreeable taste. 

Varnish for hats. 

For straw or chip hats, put one ounce of black 
sealing wax, powdered, into four ounces of spirits 
of wine, and stand it near the fire till the wax is 
dissolved 3 then lay this varnish on with a soft 
brush in the sun, or before the fire, and it wi^ give 
the article a fine gloss, and also render it water- 
proof. 



z3 



N.^1 



!<58 DOMESTIC COOKEKY^ AND 



fVet clothes. 

Persons who are unfortunate enough to get wet, 
should not go too near the fire, nor into a warm 
room, so as to occasion a sudden heat. The safest 
method is to keep in constant motion, until some 
dry clothes can be procured, and then to exchange 
them as soon as possible. 

Salad raised in two days. 

Mustard seed, cresses, and lettuce seed, steeped in 
ac|ua vitae, and. sown in fine mould, mixed with 
pigeons' dung and slacked lime, will produce a fine 
salad in fortjr-eight hours. 

Mushrooms easily produced. 

Strew the broken pieces qf mushrooms on old hot 
beds, and great numbers will be speedily pro- 
duced 3 or, if the water in which mushrooms have 
been washed, be poured on the bed, it will have the 
same effect. 

- » 

To take ink from a green cloth or carpet. 

Take it up the instant the accident occurs with a 
spoon, then pour on some dean water, and apply 
the spoon again ; by repeating this, the stain of the 
ink will in a few minutes be entirely taken out. 

To prevent flies from injuring picture-frames, 

glasses, 8fc. 

Boil three or four leeks in a pint of water, then 
with a gilding-brush do over your glasses ^ind 
frames, and the files will not go near the article so 
washed. This may be used without apprehension, 
as it will not do the least injury to the frames. 






USEFUL RECEIPT BOOK. 259 



DIRECTIONS 



For placing Dishes on Table. 



Soup^ broth^ or fish^ should always be set at 
the head of the table ; if none of these^ a boiled 
dish goes to the head 3 where there is both boiled 
and roasted. 

If but one principal dish^ it goes to the head of 
the table. 

If three, the principal one to the head, and the 
two smallest to stand opposite eadi other, near the 
foot. 

If four, the. biggest to the head, and the next 
biggest to the foot, and the two smaUest dishes on 
the sides. 

If five, you are to put the smallest in the qiMdle* 
the other four op^iosite. 

If six, you are to put the top and bottom as be- 
fore, the two sm^ll ones opposite for side dishes. 

If seven, you are to put three dishes down the 
middle of the table, and four others opposite to 
each other round the centre dish. 

If eight, put four dishes down the middle, and 
the remaining four two on each side, at equal dis- 
tances. 

If nine dishes, put them in three equal lines, ob- 
serving to put the proper dishes at the head and 
bottom of the table. 



>--?>^- 



MO BOMBSnC COOKKBT, 



If ten daAcB, pat four down the eentre, one at 
each oomer, and one oq eadi aie, oppcste to the 
Tacancj between the two central &Aie%; or four 
down the vnMHe, and three on eadj^^de; each 
oppoaite to tiie ▼acancj of tiie middle Aiies. 

If twdre diahes, place th**n m time rows o' 
foor each ^ or six down the mnkile, and three at 
eqoal diatanoes on each side. 

Note. — If more than die abo *€ mnnber of &hes 
are recjuired, the mannfr of laying them on the taMe 
must in a great meaaare dqiend on tbe taste of the 
dresaer. 



Deserts are placed in tiie same manner ; — if yon 
have an ornamental firame for deserts, or a bouquet, 
or any other ornament, for your dinner-table, in« 
variably place them in the middle of the table. 




DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. iCl 



DIRECTIONS to SERVANTS. 



Previous to bur advice to servants individually^ 
-we shall request their attention to the following 
general hints and rules^ a due. attention to vehich 
will be productive of comfort, reputation, and re- 
spect to themselves. 

The principal qualification in all servants (but 
especially in females) is a good disposition, which 
naturally urges them to anxiously endeavour to give 
universal satis&ction; and, it must be observed, 
that persons who really desire to please, seldom ML 
in their endeavours to do so. ^ A master or mistress 
who are themselves possessed of a good temper, 
will be delighted at your willingness j but if they 
are of a bad temper, your evident readiness to 
please will disarm them of their anger ; and if they 
observe you are deficient in your business, through 
ignorance, not through obstinacy or indolence^ 
they vnll endeavour to instruct you in the proper 
discharge of your duties. ^But, on the contrary, 
. should your duties be discharged in the most 
pimctual manner, and yet with an air of indif- 
ference, your services will, in a great measure, 
lose their value. Persons fearful of offending, sel- 
dom give offence, and a cheerful respectful obe- 
dience to your superiors is a certain mode by whidi 
you may acquire their protection, their love, and 



t6% DIRBCnONt TO tSBVAirrS. 

a good rqmtalioOy with which alone other male 
or female servants can hope to prosper through 
life. 

Another point of equal importance is cleanliness, 
which imperiondj demands the senoos attention 
of all servants, Imt most particolaily so of oooks 
and their inmiediate assistants. This should he 
carried to a minute d^ree of nicety^ particulariy 
in respect to thdr hair^ hands^ and taking snuff, 
&c. which latter propensity should on no account 
he indulged, it being altogether a most beastl j 
habit. 

Servants entrusted with the care of children 
should be particularly attentive to the impcntant 
trust thus vested in their hands, the least breach of 
which may produce the most serious consequences. 
Harsh and cruel conduct to infants, no ai^gument 
can extenuate, and such behaviour will at once 
prove the turpitude of your hearts. You should 
remember that it was by tender attention you were 
yourselves reared to bc^me what you now are, 
and should therefore endeavour to be equally dili-^ 
gent and tender to such children as may be placed 
under your care, — it is a solemn duty whidi you 
are bound to discharge with propriety. 

Avoid tale-bearing, it is the most pernicious of 
all evils, and produces nothing but mischief, while 
it prairie you to possess a bad heart. Remember 
tfiat every word, even though perfectly inoffensive, 
will bear a different construction when repeated 
from the mouth of another interested in creating 
anger. Tale-bearers are also generally supposed 
to tell a great deal more than they hear, and are 
always very justly despised by their fellow-servants, 
and even secretly so by the master or mistress, 
to whom they carry their invective stories. Do 
not, therefore, trouble yourselves about others. 



mRBCTIONS TO SERVANTS. 363 



but be content with duly discharging your own 
duties^ and leave them to the proper execution of 
theirs. Remember^ it is no bi^siness of yours, at 
all events 5 and, consequently, you can have no 
right to interfere. 

Be particularly careful what acquaintance you 
form ; a guarded conduct in this respect is highly 
necessary, because your reputation in a great de- 
gree depends upon it, and it is a very just obser- 
vation, that you may generally tell a person's cha- 
racter from the company he keeps. This advice is 
still more necessary to females, and I must also 
remark, that your employers will be seldom agree- 
able to a large acqusdntance. 

Invariably speak the truth, nothing can excuse a 
breach of this duty. If accused of a fault, which 
you have actually committed, never attempt to 
evade it by telling an untruth, by which you im- 
mediately add another to it, but confess your error, 
express your sorrow for it, and promise to avoid 
such misconduct in future, by which you will readily 
obtain forgiveness, and your character for veracity 
be established. 

Be humble and modest, it is your duty to be so. 
If your employer be angiy, even on a groundless 
occasion, never aigue the case, but give a mild 
reply, and submit with humility, by which you 
will secure her good opinion, and when her wrath 
is abated, she virill think the better of you^ and 
treat you still more kindly^ but if you defend 
yourself by hnpertinent repUes, you will, by so 
doing, give real cause of offence, and, what is still 
worse, confirm her ill opinion of your character and 
conduct. 

Honesty is one -of the most solemn duties of a 
servant. No possible excuse can be offered for a 
breach of its laws, and when you once violate its 



S64 DIRECTIONS TO SERYANTII. 



sacred principles^ from that instant you become 
worthless^ and totally unworthy even of conunoD 
respect. Remember that by a breach of honesty, al- 
though you merely gain one penny by it^ you are 
equauy guilty as though you gained a thousand 
pounds. When, therefore, money is entrusted to 
you by your employer, lay it out to the greatest 
advantage 5 discover the most reasonable mailcet 
for the goods you are directed to purchase -, have 
a bill made out by the persons of whom you pur- 
chase them, and on your return shew it to your 
mistress, and account faithfully tor the money re- 
maining in your hands. Buy, therefore, for your 
employers, as you would for yourselves : seriously 
study the precepts of economy, and never for- 
get the old adage, that " Honesty is the best po- 
licy/* By strictly attending to this advice, you will 
ensure the respect and confidence oi^ your supe- 
riors, you will always be trusted, and you will ac- 
quire the character of a ficdthful honest servant, 
which, give me leave to inform you, is an invalua- 
able one to persons dependent solely on their cha- 
raoters for their daily bread. Exclusive of all this, 
you will be happy in the approbation of your own 
conscience, which cannot then upbraid you of cri- 
minal conduct. 

Never give, away the smallest article imtil you 
have received the permission of your employers 
to do so, because by so doing you would be acting 
unjustly towards them, and be taking a Hberty 
which you certainly are not authorised to do. Be 
equally careful to prevent the smallest waste; 
wanton waste being certainly one of the worst of 
crimes, and you may be assured it will ultimately 
meet its merited punishment. 

Never speak lightly of your master and mistress, 
neither permit others to do so in your hearing. 



DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. 265 

without remonstrating on its impropriety) for> by 
endeavouring to vindicate their conduct^ you are 
discharging a part of your duty as a gciod and 
faithful servant. This behaviour will gain >you 
•their love^ if they should chance to discover it^ 
And will secure you the respect of others^ by which 
your reputation ' wUl be^ in some degree^ esta- 
blished. 

Carefully avoid quarrels with your companions^ 
instead of being angry at trifles^ laugh at them^ 
Ijecause provocation is always best to be avoided, 
and disturbances in a family are at all seasons ex- 
tremely unpleasant, and inevitably productive of 
anger firom your employers, who, yoji may be as- 
sured, wiU not suffer noise and strife amongst their 
domestics, neither would they, act with propriety 
were they to do so. 

Female servants should be circumspect in their 
conduct towards the male servants, too much free- 
dom may occasion improper liberties, and too 
much reserve may produce disgust and hatred; 
observe, therefore, a medium between the two^ — 
be civil and obliging, yet not forward or &milka>; 
by so doing you will ensure their respect, and, at 
the same time, be treated with that obliging civility 
due to every female character, when governed by 
propriety of conduct. 

Endeavour to acquire the habit so necessary to 
all servants, of being contented with thdr homes. 
Seldom accept invitations from other servants to 
go abroad, which only serves to render masters and 
mistresses angry, and certainly not without reason. 
We shall now say a few words to each female ser- 
vant individually. 



Aa 



966 DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. 



THE LADY'S MAID. 

As it is the duty of this servant to be generally 
n^ear the person of her mistress, her edncatioii 
should have been rather superior to that of the 
generality of servants^ that she may be enabled to 
converse with her lady in a becomiRg manner, and 
without vulgarity; she will be expected to do 9omt 
fine needle-work ; and occasionally she will have to 
read for her lady*9 entertainment. She should also 
anxiously endeavour to discover her lady's temper^ 
by which she wUl be enabled to please her, and at 
the same time render herself agreeable, and, in this 
manner, gain her respect and protection, llie prin- 
cipal business of a lady's maid consists in the wash- 
ing of fine lace, gauzes, muslin, cambrics, &c. in the 
proper execution of which great care is requisite, 
lest it should be spoiled. 



THE HOUSEKEEPBai. 

The office of housekeeper is one of great import- 
ance, she being the representative of the mistress,'* 
consequently, she has the entire domestic arrange- 
ments under her direction, and to superintend the 
female servants. This situation is fOled by a su- 
perior kind of woman, generally one who has known 
better days, but who by unforeseen misfortunes has 
been reduced in the world. 

The person who discharges the duties of this 
station should not be too young : the proper ma- 
nagement of a house requiring a person of age 



DIRECTIONS TO SBRTANTS. 267 



an4 esperienoe^ who alone is capable of makeing 
every thing go on smoothly^ exclusive of which, 
the servants will be more inclined to treat such a 
woman with the respect due to her, than they 
would a young and thoughtless person. 
' The housekeeper cannot be too industrious in 
Uie punctual dischaige of her duties for much of 
the internal comfort, and appearance of a respect- 
able domestic establishment depends on the ma- 
B^ement and assiduity which she employs. By 
duly attending to such conduct, she will also ensure 
herself a good reputation. Persons desirous of 
procuring a housekeeper, should be particularly 
attentive to her character, and, if possible, select 
a female who has had a house of her own, and 
must, consequently, be acquainted with the practi- 
cal management. 

Housekeepers should avoid visitors as much as 
possible, and should seldom be out> except on 
particular occasions, nor then, without permission 
of their lady, if it were only to set a proper 
example. They should also be particularly careful 
to rise with the other servants, in order to see that 
every thing goes on with propriety, and should 
invariably see all the other domestics to bed, the 
doors and windows properly fastened^ and every 
thing secure before they themselves retire to re- 

. pose. 

Great caution is requisite in their conduct to- 
wards the servants under their controul it being 
absolutely necessary and proper to treat them with 
tenderness, and at the same time to support their 
own authority^ and to see their duties executed. 
Housekeepers should also give servants such ad- 

jfice as may prove beneficial to them and carefully 
iet, in their ovm persons, manners, and behaviour, 
an- example for the various domestics to follow. 




866 DiKScftnoirs to Bmmrhnn* 

They should alao be jMurticulurly attenthre to the 
fiimiture^ taking e^)ecial care that' it is well pre- 
served, because it is all placed under their care. 

In purchasing provisions, the housekeeper should 
be careful to procure the best, and to get the vari- 
ous articles required at as cheap a rate as possible; 
it is also her serious duty to see that nothii^ is 
wanted : and when servants do not attend to her 
remonstrances, she should promptly discharge them 
observing in the choice of others^ to be very atten- 
tive to characters 



THE CHAMBERMAID 

Must be particularly attentive to -the manage- 
ment of her mistresses clothes, Tdiich she should 
be careful to have in constant readiness, for which 
reason every article should be always deposited in 
its proper department, so that if hastily demanded, 
it may be found without any difficulty by which 
means she will secure the respect of her lady. She 
should also be very careful to preserve the linen 
clean and nice, and be particularly attentive to 
have it well aired. 

When her mistress undresses^ she should exa- 
mine her garments closely, when, should any spots 
be discovered, they shoidd be directly removed |^ 
after which, the articles should be folded and lai^ 
in their proper place. , 




DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. 269 



TH3 NURSERY-MAID. 

Never suffer the children committed fa your CRre 
to go out of your sights nor trust thiem in any 
person's hands^ except their parents*. ' Teach them 
to love you^ and when you have occasion to chide^ 
do so mildly. Never suffer them to eat any thing 
which may prove unwholesome; and if they ap- 
pear unwell^ acquaint their parents with the cir- 
cumstance immediately^ that a prompt remedy may 
be applied.' Do not permit them to eat too much 
fruit : never ^ve them wine, unless it is diluted with 
water. Be particularly attentive to their morals^ 
teach them short prayers and hymns, and be very 
careful in avoiding all improper language before 
them, because children are very prone to learn it. 
Be not more partial to one than another, which 
will only create discord amongst them all, and 
make the others dislike you; and on no account 
encourage them to tell tales of each other. 'Re- 
member also that great tenderness, combined with 
a strict attention to cleanliness, is absolutely neces- 
«ary. 

By attending to the above simple instructions, 
you wiH have the pleasing gratification of seeing 
the children entrusted to your charge, healthy, 
cheerful^ obedient, and affectionately attached to 
you, whilst their parents will respect you for the 
constant attention thus evinced towards their chil- 
dren. 



THE HOUSE-MAED. 



Her principal business is to keep the furniture 
clean, under the direction of the house-keeper; 



Aa3 



'.*• 




S70 DIRECTIONS TO SBRTAKTTS. 

— ^— —————— M—«^>™i—— i1^— 

great industry and natural cleanliness is requisite 
in this department. She must also keep the stoves, 
fire-irons, hearth-stones, &o. dean, light the fires, 
remove tiie ashes, clean the locks and brass work 
of the doors, &c. after which, she should sweep 
the carpets and the rooms, after tiiis is properly 
dcme, she should brush the window-curtains, wipe 
the dust from the windows, and blow the dirt off 
ftt)m pictiure and looking-glass firames, which she 
must not, on any account, rub. When all this is 
well done, her next duty is to rub the wainscot 
with a duster, after which the stittrs must be 
swept, observing to dust the balusters and wain- 
scot afterwards. 

When the family are up, the house-maid should 
immediately open tlie bed-room windows, uncover 
the beds, taking off every article singly, each of 
which must be lud careftilly on two <£airs, and in 
making the beds she shpuld observe to shake them 
well, (feather-beds must be turned every day, and 
mattresses at least once a week). The house-maid 
should whisk the dust from the head of the bed, the 
vallencesan d curtains, and also carefully sweep un- 
der the bed. In short as her, denomination implies, 
she is to keep the different apartments clean and 
comfortable. 



a 



THE LAUNDRY MAID. 

To this person the care of the linen is entrusted, 
it becomes, therefore, her pointed duty to see that 
it is well got up, as one bad washing does great 
injury. She should be careful that every artide^ 



DIRB0TION8 TO SBRVANT8. 371 

properly mended previoiisly to its being washed; 
and^ when washed^it should be finished as soon as 
possible, otherwise it is opt to acquire a bad colour. 
She should be particularly attentive that her tubs, 
coppers, &c. are always kept very dean and nice, 
and be economical in the expenctiture of soap and 
other articles, as no servants can be justified in 
wasting the property of their etuployers. 

Directions for ironing, — ^Rub your irons smooth 
against a mat until they are very bright, and then 
rub them perfectly clean with a smooth flannel, 
which must be done every time you take them from 
the fire. The hotter your iron is without injuring 
the linen, the better it will be. Sprinkle a few 
drops of water upon the linen, folding every article 
neatly up, and lay one on another the night before 
you begin to iron, always observing to put more 
water to the fine than to the coarse Tlie water 
renders it more pU^le to iron, and more stiff after- 
wards. 

To prepare linen for wcuhing, — Look the whole 
of it carefully over, and then repair such as you 
may find torn, or it will be totally ruined in the 
process of washing. After you have done this fold 
it carefully up, and put it in a foul-linen bag to 
prevent it from gathering more dust. 
, To boil linen. — ^When you have put your water 
on, mix some stone blue with it and then, having 
soap<;d your linen, put it in to boil. When the fine 
linen hsus boiled ten, or the coarse linen fifteen mi- 
nutes, put the water with the linen into the tub, 
and let it stand till you can bear your hand in it, 
then wash the linen perfectly dean, taking particu- 
lar care not to leave any pieces of^soi^ upon it, 
which will cause it to look greasy. As soon as 
you have washed the different pieces, let them be 
thrown into dear pump water, mixed with stone 




■ >■*:- .?«■»».--•- .V- 



379 DIftBGTIONS TO SBRTANTS. 



blue ; then rinse tt perfectly dean, and when yoa 
have wrong it^ hang them out to dry, each piece at 
a moderate distance from the other> and when dry, 
fold them up until they are ironed^ vdiich should 
be as soon as possible. 

To make starch, — ^Moisten your starch with a 
little water^ then mix a small quantity of powder 
blue with it^ after which put it into half a pint of 
water, and stir it well together 3 then^ having a 
quart of boiling water on the fire, pour it into it^ 
and let it boil fifteen minutes^ observing to stir it 
constantly. 

Those articles you wish to have most stiffened 
must be dipped in first ; you must not rub the 
starch too strong, and you may weaken ii by the 
addition of a little water : before you use it^ be 
sure to strain it welL 

It should be always boiled iQ a copper-vessel, 
because tin is very apt to burn it. 

The common mode of mixing tallow, wax, &c. 
with starch, is injurious^ and the only good thing 
to mix Mrith it is one ounce of isinglass with every 
four ouces of starch. 

7*0 make linen white that is turned ye^/otr.— >Heal 
a gallon of milk over the fire, and scrape into it a 
pound of cake soap 3 when it is perfectly dissolved, 
put the linen in, and let it boil some time, then take 
it out, and put it into a lather of hot water, and 
wash it properly out. 

To preserve linen from moths, &c. —When well 
washed and dried, fold it up, and scatter in the 
folding powdered cedar wood ; having previously 
perfumed your chest with storax : this will efiectu« 
ally prevent dampness, moths, and worms 

To whiten any sort of cJo^/i.— Let your cloth be 




USBPUL RECEIPT BOOK. ^7S 

well bucked, iheu spread it upon the gnss, and 
sprinkle it with alum water. Let it remain in this 
situation four days, then buck it again with soap 
and fuller's earth, and use it as before, by which 
means it will not only grow white, but swell in its 
substance. 



THE COOK-MAID 

Ought to be intimately acquainted with her pro« 
fession, and the general nature of provisions. She 
should be exceedingly attentive to cleanliness in 
her personal appearance, and never permit any 
part of her work to be done by another, unless 
immediately under her inspection; as should any 
dish be spoiled, she would very deservedly^ be 
blamed for inattention. She should never give 
away any meat, or other articles, vrithout having 
obtained permission to do so. For general rules 
in the art of cookery, see the first part of thia 
volume. 



THE KITCHEN-MAID. 



Her duty consists in keeping the various domestic 
offices clean. She must also be very careful of 
her coppers, sauce-pahs, &c. &c. which, after use, 
should be filled vnih water to prevent the tinning 
from coming o£P, and afterwards wiped and dried. 



€ 



^ 



■ l' 



i» 



X - 



.1 



GENERAL INDEX 

TO 

DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



Page 

Preface 3 

Introduction. Directions 
for the Management 

of a Family 5 

Directions for carving 15 . 
The various joints in 

animals 23 

Articles proper for fa- 
mily dinners, for every 

month 24 

Jlie Choice of Protnsions, 
Butchers* Meat. 

Bacon, to choose 33 

Beef do 31 

Ham do 33 

Lamh do 31 

Mutton do ib. 

Pork do 32 

Veal do ib. 

Venison do 39 

Choice o/PouUryand Game, 

Bustard, how to choose 34 

Capon do ib. 

Cock do 35 

Ducks do ib. 

Geese do id, 

Heathcock and hen do. 34 

Hare do 36 

Hen ^ do 35 

Levercff do 36 

Partridge do 35 

Pheasant do. 33 

Pigeons do ib. 

Rahbit do 36 

Snipe do ib. 

Teal do ib. 

Turkey do 33 

Wheat-ear- do 34 

Widgeon do 36 

Woodcock do 34 



Page 
Seasons of the Year for Poul- 
try and Game. 

April 40 

August ib, 

December 41 

February 40 

January ib, 

July ib. 

June ib. 

March ib. 

May « ib, 

November k6. 

October ib, 

September t6. 

The Choice of Fish, 

Cod, how to choose. ... 37 

Flounders do i. ib. 

Herrings do 38 

Lobsters do. ....... . ib. 

Mackarel do ib. 

Oysters do ib. 

Plaice do 37 

Scate do 38 

Soles do 37 

Sturgeon do ib. 

Turbot do ib. 

Seasons of tJie Year for 
Jneat, 

Bacon 39 

Beef ib. 

Lamb ib. 

Mutton ib. 

Pork ',,,. ib. 

Veal t*. 

Venison ib. 

Seasons of the Year for Fish. 
From Christmas to . 

Lady-day 41 

From Lady-day to Mid- 
summer • •.••••••.. ib. 



^Sfr' 



27« 



UIDCS. 



From Midsoimiier to 

MkiMcfaiuM 41 

Fron MicliacliiiaB to 

ChrHtmas A. 

Smmu ef tk€ Year fm- Ve- 
teuiUt amd Frmi. 

April 42 

Aoi^iut 43 

0e^mber 44 

February 42 

January i^. 

June ik. 

July 43 

May 42 

Novenber 44 

October 43 

September ib. 

Fuh, 
General remarks on tbe 
method of dretting 

ftih 45 

Anrbovyftauce^tomake 58 

Brin,tofry 49 

Carp, stewed 52 

' fried . , ib. 

" boiled ib, 

baked 52, 53 

■ to pot ib. 

Cod'ft head, to boil .... 50 

Cod, crimp ib. 

.Cod's souud9, to boil .. ib, 

■ to broil. . ib. 

Cod, salt, to boil 51 

— - stuffing^ for 56 

Crab, hot 61 

Eels, to spitchcock .... 57 

— to fi7 ♦ t*. 

— — to boil tb, 

— — to collar 57 

Flounders, to ntew .... 55 

Haddocks, to broil .... 61 

'■ to boil .... 56 

■■ stuffing for ih, 

Ilerrinp, fried 60 

broiled ib. 




», potted (»• 

Lampreys^ to stew 59 

^ tofiy ib. 

Lobsters, to rooat 54 

topot 60 

tostew ih. 

MaduudftoboO M 

tobrad ib. 

to coOar .... ib. 

topot ik. 

to pickle. ... ib. 

Maids, to fry 52 

Mullet, red, to bake .. 54 

Oysters,tofry 59 

to stew ib. 

to scollop .... 61 

to pickle ib. 

Perrli, to boil 53 

topot 54 

Fd^e, tobake 55 

stuffingfor 56 

Plaice, to £cas ib, 

to stew 55 

Salmon, to boil 47 

•~— to pickle 48 

— ^— to broil ib, 

^— to pot »*. 

to eoOar ib. 

Scate, to boil 50 

Shrimps, to butter .... 58 

to pot 60 

Smelts, to finr 56 

Soles, to boil 55 

to fry ib'. 

to stew ib. 

Sprats, to broil 60 

Sturgeon, to boil 51 

— — — to roast .... ib. 

Tench, to boil 53 

— — to pot 54 

Trout, to fry 53 

to boil t*. 

— — to stew 54 

topot * t*. 

Turbot,toboil 49 

to fry ifs 



'^T-vrs.? 




■'"■-^m 



1XI>EX. 



S?79f 



Page 

Turtle, to dress 62 

Whitings, to 'broil .... 61 

Soups and Broths. 

Observations 62 

Beef Tea 64 

Colouring for soups or 

gravies 66 

Chicken broth ib. 

Carrot soup 68 

Clear brown stock for 

gravy or soup ib. 

Eel soup 67 

Giblet soup 66 

Gravy soup 64 

Green-pease soup .... 65 

Haresoup 70 

Mock-Turtle soup .... ib. 

Macaroni soup 67 

Mutton broth 65 

Onion soup 69 

Oyster soup 67 

Partridge soup 69 

Pease soup . . . ! 65 

Pepper pot 69 

Soup, good 64 

, plain white .... 66 

• maigre 69 

i-la-sap 70 

Teal broth 64 

Vegetable soup 68 

Gravies and Sauces, 

Observations 71 

Anchovy sauce 78 

Anchovies, essence of 80 

Apple sauce 77 

Bread sauce 75 

Brown gravy 71 

— without meat 72 

Butter, to melt. 78 

thick 72 

Capers, false 80 

Cur^.powder 82 

Currant-sauce 77 

Egg balls 82 



Page 

Fish-sauce, excellent . . 73 
Force-meat balls for ra- 
gouts, &c 81 

for tur- 



keys, fowls, pies, &c. 
for stewed 



ib, 

fish, or fish soups.. 82 

Gravy, for a fowl 72 

clear thin 73 

rich brown , . .% ib, 

white 72 

Lfobstcr sauce 78 

Mushrooms, to dry .... 81 

Mushroom sauce 75 

Mushroom powder .... 81 

Mushroom catchup .... 83 

Mustard 80 

— — — , patent ib. 

Onion sauce 75 

Oyster sauce 78 

IHes, force-meat for.. 81 

Quin's fish sauce 76 

game or meat 

sauce 74 

Egg-sauce 77 

Sauce for wild fowl .... 74 

carp or turkey. ... ib, 

cold fowl or game ib, 

g^reen geese 75 

rump steaks ib, 

fish pies 76 

Shrimp sauce 78 

Spices, to keep 80 

Stock gravy 71 

Stewed fish, force-meat 

for 82 

Tomata sauce 77 

Turkeys, force-meat- 
balls for 81 

Turtle, little egp for. . 82 

Veijuice, to make .... 79 

Vinegar, do id> 

— — , gooseberry, do. ih, 

, wine, do ib. 

Walnut ketchup ...... 83 



s 



mo 



IXDKX. 



Page 
yegetabUt. 
Directions for the pre- 
paration of 83 

AitichokeSy to dress.. .. 85 

bottomSy to 

fncasee ii. 

Jerusalem, 

todress 88 

Asparagus..' 85 

Boats, French, to dress 86 

Garden, do 88 

Windsor, do... ib. 

Beet-root, to prepare . • 90 

Brocoli, to dress 84 

Cabbage, to dress .... ib. 

Cabbage, red, to stew. • 89 

Carrots, to dress 87 

Cauliflower, do 84 

Celery, to stew 89 

Chardoons, todress.. .. 90 

Cucumbers, to stew. ... 89 

Mushrooms, to stew .. 90 

Onions, to stew 89 

Onions, to roast 88 

Parsnips, to dress 86 

to mesh 90 

Peas, green, to boil .... 88 

to keep ib. 

Potatoes, to mesh .... 87 

to boil ib. 

to scollop. ... ib. 

Spinach, to dress 89 

Sprouts, to dress 84 

Sea-cale, to dress 91 

Salad, lobster 90 

Turnips, to boil 86 

Vegetables, to preserve 

uirough the winter . . 91 
Pickles. 

Instructions 92 

Anchovies 93 

Barberries, to pickle.. 95 
Beet and turnips, do. . . ib. 

Cabbage, do ih. 

red, do 100 



Cucumbers in slices ... . 98 
French beans^ to pickle 99 

Gbeikins, do 98 

Indian pickle 97 

Lemon pickle ib. 

Mushrooms, to pidde. . 98 

Ditto ^do 99 

Mangoes, cucumber . . 97 
Nasturtiums, to pickle 99 

Onions, do 95 

Oysters, Cockles, and 

Muscles do. 93 

Ditto do • ib. 

Samphire do 96 

Smelts dp 92 

Salmon do 93 

Radish pods, do 96 

Wahiuts do 94 

JRoastiHg: 
General instructions . . 100 
Beef, ribs of, roast .... 104 

Beef, rump of, do Ill 

sirloin of, do t6. 

fillet of, do ib. 

Calf's head, do 121 

Calfsheart, do 123 

Harslet,Pig's, do 126 

Kidney do 123 

Lamb, do 105 

loin of, do.., . . k , 129 

leg of, do •*. 

fore-quarter of, . . ib. 

Mutton, do • 105 

legof, do 127 

Mutton, haunch,rbast. . 127 

neck of, do . . . . ib. 

saddle of, do... l2^ 

— ^— breast, do ib, 

loin of, do ib. 

Pork, do 105 

leg of, do 123 

spring of, do 124 

neck of, rolled Ji ib, 

spare-rib, do ib, 

griskin do tft. 



J 




.-.;'^^ 



INDEX. 



281 



Page 

Fig, to roast 125 

Porker's head, to roast 126 

Tongue, to roast 106 

Udder, to roast ib. 

Veal, roast, . . ^ 105 

Venison, to roast 106 

hashed ib* 

fried lb. 

Boiling, Salting, 8fc. 

General instructions . . 100 
Black puddings, to make 126 

Beef, to.salt 107 

Beef, Dutch 108 

Bacon, to make 109 

Beef, to press Ill 

Beef, hunter's ib. 

Beef, round of, 113 

Cow-heels, to boil .... 114 

Calf s-head, do 121 

Grass-lamb 129 

Hog's-lard 127 

Hams, to cure. 107 

Hams, the Yorkshire 

way 108 

Hams, the management 

of 109 

Hams, to boil ........ ib. 

Hams, to pickle like 

Westphalia 108 

Hung-beef 119 

Knuckle of veal, to boil, 114 

Lamb's head and hinge 129 

Lamb, leg of, boiled . . 129 

Mutton, leg of, 127 

Mutton-hams 119 

Marrow-bones, to boil 114 

Neck of veal, to boil .. 115 
Oxford sausages, to 

make 125 

Pork, to salt 107 

pickled 124 

leg of, to boil .... ib. 

Pettitoes, to boil 126 

Pig's-cheek, to boil .... ib. 

Tongues, to pickle. ... 113 

Ditto, to boil ib. 



Page 
Frying and Broiling. 
Beef steaks, broiled.. 112 
Beef steaks, fried .... 1 18 

Beef coUops 112 

Bubble and squeak .. 114 
Calf s Uver and bacon, 

fried 123 

Cow heels, fried 105 

Kidney, broiled 113 

Lamb 129 

ib. 

no 

128 
125 
118 
119 
122 
125 
114 
119 
120 



steaks 

's fry 

Mutton or lamb chops 
Pork steaks broiled. . . . 
Scotch collops, brown 

—white. . 

Sweetbreads, fried .... 

Sausages, fried 

Tripe, fried 

Veal cutlets, broiled . . 
■ fried .... 
Veal sausages 121 

Stews, Hashes, Ragouts, Sfc. 

Beef, a fricandeau of . . 110 

rump of, stewed. . ib. 

to pot 1 12 

underdone, fine 

way to dress 112 

to hash 113 

Be«f-steaks, to stew .. 117 

a-Ia-mode 116 

leg of 117 

brisket of, stewed ib. 

Calf s head hashed .... 121 

Lamb, to fricasee brown 118 

white. . ib. 

Lamb-cutlets, with spi- 
nach 129 

Lamb's sweetbread, to 

dress 130 

Mock-turtle 122 

'• , without 

calf's head ib. 

Mutton, hashed 113 

128 



Siiicia of berf, to force 1 19 



VaaCcboni] 



cold, bcoUopt of. . it. 

Savour]! Pia, itc. re. 

ItnMrks '. 139 

Bc«f.jlcak pi« 140 

Bread of ieal]iie Ul 

Cod ' do 140 

CUr'ibrad do 141 

Cnatfornicat-inei.... 139 
Ed do...... a. 

Fowl do 143 

Gravy, foruTOUT^ [uca 142 

(HUetpic 

Green govse pie 

LamMtoDC pie 

Mackarel p» 

Mutton pie 



Pif^eon pie . . 

Putatoe pie 

Hhrimp pie 

Kquah pie 

Turkey pie 

and olive pie ,,,. 

VeniBon pasty 

Pvddingt, Ifc, 

OeMro] remarks 

AimiiiHl pudding 

Apple jiudding. 

ill., baked.. 

(lumplingi ,, 



. 142 



Batter p^ding U^ 

whhool t^gt 147 

Beef- (leak & H9 

Baked plain puUin^. . 150 

Black puddi^i I2fi 

Bresid podding rt. 

a cheap ooe 150 

Bread and botter do. . . H. 
B<>ck,i,ri 154 



(ollrj , __ 
Cumird do.. 



Mutton pniUing . , 

ftfiUet pudding 

Rice pudding, btnled . . 



127 
. 147 




Suet pudding 

Sago puddiof ISl 

Transparent pudding. . it, 

VcBBt dumplings 154 

Yorkshirrpuddiiig.... 1S2 

IHrectiiHu 130 

Chickens, to Mcaiec 135 

Cbickena, to pull 136 

to currie.... ». 

toboil 133 



FowU, to boU , . 



«84 <xi 

Cake, comtaon ifl 

— — Dptiiig* 177 

Chalk, to find nbcthcr 
•nj be miied with 

Calcei, Varkahirc ..'.'. 179 

Cake, trifle 164 

Dmuon checM 172 

DtiDKnUi tu keep .... 173 

do. ...' 17* 

^R^plaiDi, to preserve ii. 

FhatiDf Ulani 161 

Trait, to candy any 170 

■ for keepine 176 

bi.cuil* 172 

Flotir, Amerimi 177 

Gfaigerbread 157 

GooHberry trifle 164 

fool ii. 

GooKberrio', red, to 

prtiBrve for tart* 170 

, freeu, to 

prtMrve 169 

. t(> keep . . 173 

Green sngci.lo preserve 171 

Hartihoro jelly ...... 159 

le^ to make IGO 

■ ' colouring fur 166 

' for iceiof, to pre- 

Ice-WBter ti. 

Jceine, for tarts 163 

Junkets 160 

Jellies, colourio^ For . . 166 

Lemon marmal^e 169 

mince pies .... 163 

Lemons, lo keep 181 

Li^ht paste 163 

Maitiroonii ib, 

Moril a Cherriei. lo 

pri'ierve 104 

Mufflns 178 

Wuts, to preterve IBl 

Orant'os, tu keep l6l 



rai-e 

Oyiter pattiei 163 

Oranee iiianDBladc.... 169 

Puff-paite 155 

PluiD-cakc l.-is 

Fouad KL-fl-Take ii. 

Pilipiu-tarts 162 

Pears, 10 slew 167 

Qucen-cates .... 1S7, 17ti 
fiHiucfs, preserved .... 162 

Quince marmalade lti9 

BataBa cnkes 157 

Hed currant jelly l.SB 

Rhubarb torts a. 

Raspberry jam 168 

Raspberries, topretene 

whole lee 

'■ bunched, to 

preserve 175 

cakes 173 

KdIU. line 178 

SyUabub 167 

eTcrlaatinfp . . 160 

Snow balk 164 

Strawberry Jam 155 

Strawbemei, to pre- 

sene, whole 163 

Sugar, to clari^' 170 

to pro»e bj the 

Sweetmeats, for tartg 172 
Tart!, paste for, -very fine 15B 
Trifle, an eiceUeut one 166 
Vineiiar, ratpberrv .... 175 

do. .' 201 

White currant jeUy ,. l.^lj 
Veast, tomake 160 

JUiaieliaitenui BiceipU. 

Cream, to keep IBl 

Game, do ti. 

Herbs, to keep for the 

winter liJO 

Poult>7,do IHl 

Hime Breuiery. 

Ale, strong 183 

Welch, fine.... 18,'. 

Breiiii^, cheap melhod 1B2 



Beer Rtrone 1 

table, veiy line 1 

Ireatle l 

Cask, to dean a musty 

Cvder, to refine 

Vtmedo. .-. 



Afidiweet ,'.' 196 

Black currant nine .. ISO 

Brandy 192 

cherry 193 

raspberry . . jj. 

lemon it, 

orange ji. 

carraway .... ib. 

EngliBh .... ib. 

Blackberry wine 136 

Bitters 197 

British wines, to res- 
tore when acid or 

pricked igg 

Curratit wine 187 

Cowslip wine 1()9 

Capillaire 195 

*^y<ier 197 

"o mauage .... 198 



Rum 193 

Ratafia 196 

RupbepTV wine 190 

Sack, English 196 

Shrub 197 

Wine;, to take an Ul 

scent from 199 

to sweeten 199 

to recover when 

decaying . . 16, 
ropy, 10 cure . . a. 

Bain, a»d PfattTy. 

General -.emarks 199 

Diltp on poultry .... 203 
Butter, to make 201 



Damson w 
Elder 

Ginger 



HoUands do ib. 

Limp water do 194 

Mixed wine ign 

Mounlaiu du. Englisli lg7 

— do. do 196 

Mead, (0 make 191 

Noyeau, English 194 

Orange wine igg 



Pigeons, 
Pea-fowls, 



. 204 



Rennet, to make „, 

Turkeys, lo cram 303 

to manage . . 204 

Sick Owioy. 

Arrow-root 206 

jelly i*. 

Ale, mulled 210 

Apple-water 2U 

do it. 

Ale posset S15 

Bi'oih, an excellent one ii. 
calves' feet . . it. 



I'sri 



INDL'X. 



Pa«e 

Broth, veal 20o 

Barley water 213 

Broaasoup 215 

Craih^.m' p;rucl * 212 

Ca««.'l« .*. ' 20B 

- . . . « -• 

h..r.vn grit ... ib. 

rwe 209 

Currant 'j;rnK'\ 212 

Coffee-milk 210 

«:f»ftVr* 211 

Ciwicolatt^ 210 

Couj;h, a clrauj^ht for . . 212 

iMnk for a fever if*. 

— a ]iK'asant one 213 

E{f§fs 207, 208 

K^ wine 214 

Jelly, jKirk 206 

— tapioca 207 

Gloucester .... ih. 

JLeinoii-wati'r 213 

Leinoiiiicle 215 

Milk porri(!«co 211 

— — ricie i/i, 

— — baked ih. 

— — artiflriul asses' ih. 

OranjjeatU'. 215 

f )rgcat ih. 

Panada 207 

Posset wine 215 

Prunes, «itc»wed 216 

Restorative, an excel- 
lent one 208 

Raspberry vinej^ir .... 215 

Sipi»ct8 207 

Saloop 210 

Sa^j ib. 

' Seed-water 214 

Sweet biittcr-milk .... ib. 

Wine, muUcil 209 

Watererucl 212 

• Whey do 214 

white wine .. ib 

— — L»mon ib. 

Wine pcMiBrt 215 



Pugf 
Medical Receipt b. 
A^^, to relieve the . . 22.'i 
Asthma, to relie\'e the ib. 

Bu«ilicou, t«-» make 216 

BmiiCJi, to cure 226 

Camphorated oil, to 

makt? 21o 

Cerate do ih. 

Clyster, a do 217 

Chaps, to remove .... 22.S 

Corns. do 221 

Costiveness, do 215 

Cholic, to relieve .... 226 

Cancers do 227 

Coughs 228 

Deafness, to cure 224 

ib. 

Debility, to relieve 228 

Dropsy 227 

Eves, weak 223 

inflamed ib. 

Fomentations 217 

Fumigations 218 

Freckles on tlie face, 

to remove 222 

Flatulency 229 

Garj^les, to make 218 

G(mt, a cordial for the 229 

Gravel, do ib, 

Hea<l-ache, to prevent 223 
Hooping ccm^h, to cure 225 

Hearibuni do 229 

Hircoui^h do 230 

Hysterics do ib. 

Iliac passion, do ib. 

Indi«;estion ib. 

Inflammation of the 
bowels, to cure .... 231 

Itch, do ib. 

Jaundice, do 232 

Lip-salve, to make .... 217 

Liniments do 218 

Lime-water, to make. . 219 
Lethar^i^', to cure .... 231 
Marmalade 219 



INDEX. 



Page 

Measles, to cure 232 

Nose, bleeding at, to 

atop 223 

Nipples sore, an oint- 
ment for 225 

Pills, opening 219 

do t*. 

composing . . 220 

Pills stomachic 227 

strengthening 228 

Poultice, a common one 220 

Poultice do ib. 

a carrot one . . ib. 

Powder, canninative . . ib. 

worm 222 

Powder, tooth 221 

Palpitation of the heart, 

to cure 2;)2 

Piles, do 2;)3 

Quinsy, do ib. 

Rheumatism, do ib. 

Spermaceti ointmeut, 

to make 219 

Sinapisms do 221 

Small-pox do 234 

Spnuns do ib. 

Swcwns do ib. 

Thrush, the do ib. 

Tincture, aromatic, to 

make 221 

Tincture of rhubarb . . ib. 

compound, of 

bark 222 

Tar-water, to make. ... ib. 
Tooth-ache, to cure .. 224 
Teeth and gums to pre- 
serve 250 

Kitchen Garden, 
Directions for the kit- 
chen garden for every 
month in the year. ' 235 
Bees. 
The management of . . 239 

Miscellaneous Receipts. 
Apple - trees, to cure 
when diseased 251 



Broken glass, to luerd 2-i7, 

Blacking, to make 254* 

Beer, table, a good sub- 
stitute for 257 

Cli^cetS} to destroy. . . . 244 

Ghiiiay a cement for . . 247 

GhaciMNil, properties of 248 
, to prevent iH 

effects of 250 

Cotton, to dye a fine 
buir 252 

Cream, a substitute for ib, 

Caligo furniture, to 
clean 254 

Chairs, to clean 255 

Drawings, to varnish 244 

Doors, to prevent the 

creaking of ...;.. 2i7 

DircK'tions for placin,'; ^ 
dishes on the table, 
from one to ten in 
number 259 

Furniture paste, to 
make 246 

Floor-cloths, to clean . . ' 248 

Fruit, to preserve all 
the year 252 

Granaries, to preserve 
from insects, &c 244 

Glue, portable 247 

Grease, spots of, to re- 
move 255 

Green cloth, or carpet, 
to take Ink from. . . . 258 

Picture frames, glasses, 
&c: to prevent flics 
from injuring 258 

Hungary' water 243 

Honey water t6. .• 

Huukerchiefs, Silk, fo 
wash 

Hats, a varuish ^ 

Iron pots, to n* 

Ink, to mak' 

Lavender* 



1 ... » 



-«-•.—■* 



iS- 






*^ 



4 



