Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



f 




. KOxsTiFia DiaouaBioir. 

Nt *igen, mre, dat d« world am flat ijA 
ion & big rock," uiid Sambo ; "tioir I wa6t 
I tola iBQ nbat dat rook Bl«iid on T'-^ 
■'priwd ftt yont ignorance!" rctarn^ 
"why it Bbiiids on nnoaTer *big rook."-^- 
wkat does bofe of dem rocks atsnd on ?" 
luabo, ooD&deot that b« ksd hii oppo- 
jDrnered. — "Why, dar isroekB all de way 
"a, momeDt'a heeiti' 
" said Sarabo, irith 
Gee sich 'splajs 
1 ob your 
ha!j expB- 
g correct da 
i inforEQ 



r 




h thg obJHtg of tha mi „ . .._ 

briif nport* nude ttora ohnrohei repniantsd in U 
mMting. A pcrtion of th* time mdj be dcroMd to ■ 
gl&l cgDTeHniK lad prajRt. AH fritnda of the Chiiitii 
CBUM are ioTitad. J. G. Adams, Bos';, 

Unl. Home MissionalT Societr- 

The uiDii»l meoling of tbe M. D. B. M. Sooiet; vl 

bs boldan in tba Vaatr; of tb« Sehool at. Cbarch , Tua 

dft7, H>; »th, at 9 o'Dlook, i. u., ttrlliafollowiDgpa 



1. To hear ths SwnUtj'a Raport, 
3. To hav.llie TiMSurar'a Report 
3. To aleat a Board of OfKceii. 



1. To I 



what n 






.ndtoai 



tl Uhe ii 



laUuai 



to aesapUng tha CharUr of tha Lagiila' 

ahaaett* Uniraruliit CooTsotioD. in referanea to trait 

fairing tha fondiDf (be Social; to mid CoDiaDtbn. 

6. To tnnuMt toy otbac bniinaea Chat ma; lagal] 
come bafora tha moetrng. 

AU Llfa Directore, Lifa Mambara, Membin pajli 
$1 Tvarl;, and tha dalagalaa trom Aoiiliarj Soclatia 
sra •nllUad to Tota at tbit masting. 

Cnu. A. SitKNHa, 8eo';. 

Conference at Gloncealer. 

There will ba a ratlgloai Ooofsranu In tha "Indapoi 
dant Chriitlan Chnreh" of Olousaitar, on Wtdoaada' 
Mi; IB. Bretbren ara SDrdiall; iarited. Rar. 0. 1 
Laooard Kill gira tha opaning addnw. 



/ 



FAMIIY RECEIPT BOOK, 

y ' ■ ■ 

CONTAINING 

^) I' ' , "JGHT nUNDREa 

VALUABLE RECEIPTS 



IN VARIOtS Blt.ANCHES OF 

DOMESTIC ECONOMY : . ' 



SELECTED FROM 
THE WORKS OF TJIK MOST APPROVED WRITERS, . 

ANCIENT AND MODERN j 

iND FROM THE 

/ ATTESTED COMMUNICATIONS 

* OF 

SCIENTIFIC FRIENDS. 



\ 

1 

/ 



I & 



S«T?COND AMERICAN EDITION. 

« 

4 ■ 

■v"*; PITTSBURGH: 






iJlED BY RANDOLPH BARNES, 

Third Street. 



1819. 



v. 







PLDLiO LIBJiAllY » 

3867951* I 

A8TGR, LCNOX AND 
& lv<7 " h 



-^ 

•• 

^*d 



>-* 






(2 



^^<r /ilX-^^c^ ^> 



i_x>^ 



PREFACE 



TO THE SECOND AMERICAN EDITION. 

THE collection of Domestic Receipts now pre- 
sented to the public, appears to be admirably calculated 
to assist the good House Wife — the honest Farmer — 
the ingenious Mechanic — and the various artisans* 
both useful and ornamental : — ^And the Publisher in- 
dulges a strong hope, that ih& general usefulness of 
the work will recommend it to the favour and attentioi^- 
of a liberal public. 

The present Collection has been methodically ar- 
ranged ; so that, by the aid of the Analytical Table of 
Contents, and copious Index, which are subjoined, 
the reader may easily refer to any particular article. 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER I,— AGRICULTURE. 

Sect. I. — Management, ^c, of the Soil^ '^0 

[VIethod of employing fallow groun(k to advantage, ib. 

Advantage of planting: waste land with alder, '2tj 

To prevent much mischief to sea embankments, or 

those of rivers, 



27 



Sect. II. — Farm-Offices, ib^ 

Economy in thatchii^, ih. 

Curious mode of making earthen bapa-tloors, 28 

To make durable barn-floors, 29 

Virtues of poplar wood for flooring granaries, 30 

Sect. III. — Water^ ih. 

Easy method of obtaining water in almost any situ- 
ation, ib. 

To keep ponds and artificial pieces of water fre^ 

from weeds, ib. 

Si ethod of draining pond} in level grounds t S 1 

Sect. IV. — Fences, ib. 

To make a quickset hedge or fence, fb. 

To train eVergreen and other hedges, 32 

Sect. V. — Tcamsi, S3 
Great advantage of ploughing with ox6n instead of 

horses, ib. 

Useful hints relative to carters and teams of oxen, 31 

Sect. VI. — Manvrcs. 3b 

Manure for clover, ib. 

W^tility of pigeon's dung as a manure. ^ib* 



Vl. CONTENTS. 

Page, 

Composts for dunghills, 35 

Experiment in manuring land, 36 

Dr. Taylor's method of ascertaining the qualities 

of marl &c. for agricultural purposes, 38 

Sect. VII. — Culture, ^c» of Crops, 39 

Easy method of discovering whether seeds are 

ripe, ih. 

To preserve seeds, when sown, from vermin, ih. 

Striped grass recommended for hay, ih. 

When to cut rye -grass for hay, 40 

To prevent hay-stacks from taking fire, • ih. 

Methods of preventing smut in wheat, 4 1 

Steeps for wheat, barley, &c. ih. 

Approved methods of sowing wheat to advantage, 42 

Utility of sowing buck-wheat, 43 

Te keep crows from corn, ih. 

Proper soil for culture of turnips, 44 

Instructions for raising potatoes to advantage, ih. 

Preparation for carrots and other winged seeds, 45 

Sect. W III. '-^Preservatifm of Com and VegetahleBy ih. 

Important discovery relative to the preservation of 

corn, ihi 

To preserve corn in stacks, 4^ 

To presen'^e oats from being musty, 47 

To destroy mites or weevils in granaries, ih. 
To preserve carrots, parsnips and beets, all the 

winter, ih. 

To preserve turnips from frost, 48 

Sect. IX. — Protection of growing crops 

from the devastation ofVerminy 69 

Good effects of elder in preserving plants from 

flies and insects, ih. 

Use of sulphur in destroying insects on plants, and 

its benefit for vegetation, ih. 

To stop the ravages of caterpillars on shrubs and 

vegetables, 60 



CONTENTS?. VU. 

Page, 
To prevent the increase of pismires in grass-lands, 

newly laid down, ^^ 

Liquor to destroy caterpillars and other insects, ib. 

To destroy ants, *^* 

To prevent the fly in turnips, *^- 
To prevent the destruction of field-turnips hy slugs, ib. 
For preventing flite from destroying the seedling 

leaves of turnips, &c. ^^ 

To prevent mice from destroying early sown peas, ib. 

Sect. X. — Weeds. 

Usefulness of mowing, ^3 

CHAPTER \h— ANGLING— FISHING. ib. 

To preserve fishing rods, ib. 

To make quill-floats for fishing, 64 

Improved cork floats, for fishing, 65 

Easy method of dyeing fishing lines, ib. 

To prevent fiahing lines from rotting, ib. 

To prevent taking cold while angling, ib. 
To improve the. sport of angling, by attention to 

the dress, 66 

Rules for fly fishing, ib. 

To intoxicate and taJce fish, 57 

CHAPTER III.— USEFUL ARTS. 68 

Beneficial purposes to which the juice of aloes 

may be applied, ib. 

To bronze plaster figures, ib. 

To blue mourning buckles, swords, &c. 59 

Composition to take offcasts of medals, ib. 

Method of sweeping chimnies without employing 

children, H, 

To clean feathers from animal oil, 60 

To preserve the* natural colour in petals of dried 

flowers, ' 61 

Art of gilding iron or steel, ib. 

Method of dry gilding, 62 

Composition for gilding brass or silver, ib. 

To make shell-gold, ib. 

To clean gold, and restore its lustre, ib. 



Vlll. CONTENTS. 

Page, 

To silver glass globes, 63 

To cut glass, ib. 

Substitute for hemp and flax, ib. 

To braze or solder pieces of iron, 64 
Various methods of preserving iron and steel frota 

rust, ib. 

To soften ivory and bones, jf 65 

Useful hints to lamplighters, 66 
Improved method of taking off impressions of 

leaves, plants, &c. ib. 
To obtain the true shape and fibres of a leaf, 67 
To whiten linseed oil, ib. 
To detect adulterations in lavender and all essen- 
tial oils, ib. 
To determine the exact time of noon, and to obtain 

a meridian line on a small scale, 68 
German method of making elm and maple wood re- 
semble mahogany, 69 
Substitute for mahogany, 70 
To clarify and harden quills, 71 
Dutch method of preparing quills for writing, ib. 
Substitute for curriers' oil, ib. 
To repair roads near coal-mines, 72 
Substitute for soap, ib. 
To extract starch from horse-chesnuts, 74 
To dissolve wax in water, ib. 
To make wafers, 73 

CHAPTER W.—BIRD CATCHING. ib. 

To make and use the best sort of bird-lim e, ib. 

Experienced method of catching larks, 7 7 

CHAPTER v.— BLEACHING. 78 

Method of bleaching straw, ib. 

Efficacy of horse-chesnuts in bleaching, ib. 

To bleach bees'- wax, 79 

CHAPTER \L— BOOKS, CO 

To extract grease from the leaves of books, tb. 

Metliod of cleaning dirty prints ©r books, t^. 



CONTENTS. 1\. 

Page. 

To make bookbinder'^ paste, 81 

To marble books or paper, • ib. 

CHAPTER VII.— BJRB07^'G AND MANAGEMENT 

OF MALT UqUORS. 82 

Precautions and rules to be observed in malting; ib» 

To extract the virtue of hops in brewing, 84 

Cheap and easy method of brewing, ib. 

Excellent an8 wholesome table-beer, 86 

Use of ground ivy in ale, ib- 

To make ginger beer, ib. 

To make yeast, or barm, 86 

Substitute for yeast, ib. 

Turkish manner of making yeast, B7 

Easy method of preserving yeast, ib. 

To make artiiicud yeast, ^ ib. 

Usefulness of the hazel nut in brewing, 88 

To extract the essence of malt for brewing, ib. 

To prevent beer;from growing flat,^ ib. 

To recover sour oristale beer, ib. 



CHAPTER Vm.^BUJLDlNG. 

Artifkial stone floors and coverings for houses, ib. 

To cure damp walls, 91 

To increase tiie durability of tiles, ib. 

Economical method of using tiles, 93 
To improve chimney fire-places, and augment the 

heat, ib. 

To cure smoky chimnies, ih^ 
To preserve wood from catching fire, and also from 

^ay, 94 
Composition for preserving weather boarding, pal- 
ing, &c. 95 
To prevent disagreeable smells from house drains, 96 
Improved ventilators for rooms, ib. 
To preserve churches from dilapidation, 97 
To make red coral branches for embellishing grot- 
tos, &c. t^. 



X. CONTENTS. 

Page. 
CHAPTER IX.— CAATjJJSF BIRDS. 

Breeding and maiucement of canary birds, 98 

CHAPTER Ti.'-'^CATTLE. 102 

Sect. I. — Food for Cattle^ ib. 

Everlasting pea, $i valuable crop for cattle, ib, 

Scotch kale, excellent food for cattle, ib. 

Virtues of hay-tea for cattle, « 103 

Profitable way of fattening pigs, 104 

Sect. II. — Best method of feeding and mawiging 

Cows. ib. ' 

On the great increase of milk, by feeding cows 

with sainfoin, i6. 

Parsnips productive of milk in cows, 105 

Most proper food for milch cows, ib, 
Additionsd quantity of milk to be gained by keeping 

milch cows in the house, ib. 
To prevent cows from contracting bad habits while 

milking, ' ib. 

Sect. III. ^^Management of Calves. 106 

Vo rear calves without milk, ib. 

Hay-tea for calves, 107 

Method of rearing calves, &c. ib. 

To prevent sickness in calves, 108 

Sect. IV,— lfom»* ib* 

Carrots, useful as.food for horses, ib. 

Benefit of flirze, as winter food for hones* 109 

Sect. V. — Sheep. 1 10 

To mark sheep without injury to the wool, ib. 

To improve the wool of sheep by smearing, ib. 

Sect. VI. — Diseases of Cattle and Sheep ^ ib. 

To preserve cattle from disease in the winter, ib, 

Tp prevent the rot in sheep, til 

Parsley, a preventive of the reap in sheep, ib. 

Cure of the rot in sheep, *b. 



CONTENTS. X». 

Page. 

CHAPTER Xh— CEMENTS. 112 

Admirable cement, or mortar, used on the Cots- 
wold HUIs, if>' 
Useful property of common glue, 113 
To make size from potatoes, ib> 
To make patent paste, ib* 
Excellent glue, ib. 
Parchment glue , 114 
Lip glue for joining paper, silk, &c. tfr. 
Common cement, for joining alabaster, marble, &.c. 115 
Strong cement, ih. 
Fire lute, 116 
Gold lutes, ib. 
Cement for iron flues, ib. 
■ for repairing copper boiler^, 117 
To restore cast-iron furnaces, accid^tally cracked, ib. 
Cement to resist the action of fire and water, ib. 

to resist moisture, 1 1 8 

Japanese cement, or rice-glue, ib. 

Turkey cement, for joining metals, glass, &g, 119 

Cement for broken china, ib. 

To stop cracks in glass vessels. 

Cement for preserving wood and brick, 

— — for wood or paper^ *L22 

CHAPTER Xll.— CLOTHES. ib. 

Receipts for blacking, ib. 123 
Easy method of cleaning boots and shoes in winter, 

so as to prevent soiling the person, house, &c. 124 

Chemical liquid for boot-tops, 12$ 

To clean boot-tops, or any tanned leather, ib. 

To prevent shoes from taking water, 126 
To restore the lustre of tarnished gold or silver 

lace, lb. 

To clean gilt buckles or toys, 127 

Black varnish for old straw or chip hats ib...- 
• To prevent gentlemen's hats from being spotted af- -, 

ter rain, ih. 

Fieventives agni'^pt the ravages of the moth, 128 

To purify wo^l f : 1 •■'::/ :\ . ;. \St.^ 

Chinese method vi *^-. * . .: ... . >^r ^.-'^'>iH \^* 

Ik 



■i". 



XU COHTEKTfi. 

Page. 
New method of cleaning silks, cottons^, and wool- 
ens, 129 
To stop the rapidity of the flames, when the fe* 

male dress has accidentally taken fire, 130 

To prevent clothes from catching fire, 131 

Permanent inks for marking linen, ih. 

To perfume linen, 133 

To raise the pile of velvet, when pressed down, \b. 

To prevent danger from wet clothes, «6. 

Useful hints relative to bedclothes, matrasses, &c. ih. 

To clean silk stockings, 134 

Composition for restoring scorched linen, ih. 
Danger of putting spirits into boots or shoes, to 

prevent the effects of cold, 135 

CHAPTER Xlll.—CUimSITIES. 136 

Sir Ashton Lever's method of preserving animals, tb. 

Birds shot in this kingdom, 137 

Rules for collecting curiosities on sea Toyages, ib. 

CHAPTER Xiy.— DAIRY. ib. 

Proper temperature for a dairy, ib. 

tlules-for milking cows, 138 
To make excellent butter from the milk of cows 

fed on turnips, tb. 

Improved method of making butter, ib. 
Dr. Anderson's method of keeping milk and butter, 139 

CHAPTER XV.—Z>ISTILldNG. 140 

\ cheap refrigerator or condenser, t6. 

To try the purity of spirits, « ib. 

To cure. spirituous liquors of a bad flavour, ib. 

To improve the smell and taste of spirits, 141 

Expeditious method of distilling simple waters, ib. 

CHAPTER XVl.— DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 143 

To purify infectious air in a room, ib. 

Portuguese manner of preserving fish and meat, ib. 

Various methods of preserving animal food sweet, 143 

144, 145 



C0]rr£NT8« xiu. 

Page. 

Ufiefbl properties of charcoal, ' 144 

To preserve water and meat from putrefaction on 

long voyages, 145 
To detect dampness in beds, 146 
Hints on warming beds, ih. 
Beef-tea, ih. 
Improved management of bees, ih, 147 
Chinese method of mending china, 1 48 
To discover vitriol in beer, ih. 
Excellent substitute for table-beer, • ih. 
To make good spruce beer, ih. 
Substitute for yeast, 149 
To make bottles air-tight, ih. 
To loosen glass stopples of smelling bottles and de- 
canters, 150 
Improved corks for preserving wine or chemical 

liquors, ' ih. 

To judge the quality of wheaten flour, ih. 
To detect adulterations in flour or bread, 151, 152 

To preserve biscuit from putrefaction, ih. 

To preserve sea-bread from the weevil, ih. 

To make artificial or potatoe bread, 1 53 

Bread made from the water gladiole, ih. 
Ferment for bread, used by the inhabitants of 

Long Island, in the state of New-York, 154 

New method of making flour without grain, ib. 

lipproved method of salting butter and meat, 155 

Method of curing bad tub-butter, ih. 
Method of taking the rankness and disagreeable 

taste from Irish salt butter, ib. 

To remove the taste of turnips from milk or butter, 1 56 

To make salt butter fresh, ih. 

Chickweed, ih. 
To prevent children from eating their food too 

quickly, ih. 
To prevent the formation of crust upon the inside 

of tea-kettles, 157 

To make chocolate from cocoa-nuts, ib. 

Coflee, 1*6 • 

The virtues of cofiee, \^"^ 



XlV. COr^TBNTS. 

Page, 

Turkish or Arabian method of preparing coffee^ 1 68 

Cheap and valuable substitute for coffee, 169 

Excellent substitute for coffee, ib. 

Acorn coffee, «d. 

For improving coffee, i6. 

To preserve eggs for a length of time, 161 

Best method of cleaning fine block-tin dish-coVers, 

patent pewter, &c. ib. 

Cleaning floor-cloths, ib. 

To clean gold and silver lace, 162 

To restore the lustre of glasses tarnished by age 

or accident, tJ, 

To clean flint-glass bottles, decanters, &c. ib. 

To clean mahogany furniture, ib. 

To clean Turkey carpets, 163 

To clean marble, ib. 

Another, ib. 

To clean alabaster or marl^le, ^b. 

Mixture for cleaning stone stairs, hall-pavements ,&c. ib. 

The danger of children eating 'gilt gingerbread, or 

any article covered with such a composition, 164 

Varnish for furniture, ib. 

German furniture gloss, or polishing wax for ma- 
hogany, &c. ib. 

Method of cleaning and polisMing rusty steel, 166 

Easy method of cleaning paper-hangings, ib. 

nT preserve metals from rust, 1 66 

For cleaning steel or iron polished stoves, . ib. 

To clear iron from rust, ib. 

How to judge the properties of nutmegs, ib. 

To take the smell of paint from rooms, ib. 

Method of making Stilton cheese, ib. 

Colouring for cheese, 167 

To fatten poultry, ib. 

A new method of rearing poultry to advantage ; 
communicated by Mrs. D'Oyley to the Society . 

of Arts, &c. 168 

Method of expeditiously fattening chickens, 170 

Swedish method of raising turkies, ib. 

Method of fattening geese and ducks, 1 7 1 



CONTENTS. fV. 

# Page. 

Rules for plucking geese, * 1 72 

To improve the dowa qf geese, ifr. 

To ascertain the properties of goose down, ih. 
To prevent inconvenience from perspiration of 

the hands, 173 
To purify lemon juice, ih. 
Every family to make their own sweet oil, ih. 
To take mildew out of linen^, 174 
To make verjuice* ih. 
Method of making vinegar, ih. 
To make vinegar with the refuse of bee-hives, af- 
ter the honey is extracted, 175 
To strengthen vinegar, 176 
Balsamic and anti-putrid vinegar, ih. 
Gooseberry vinegar, ih. 
To make primrose vinegar, ih. 
Method of rendering putrid water sweet, 176 
To purify water for domestic and other purposes, 178 
To puHnr water for drinking, 189 
To puriqr the muddy w^ter of rivers or pits, ih. 
Method of m«king putrid water sweet in a night's 

time, ih. 
To prevent the freezing of water in pipes in the 

winter time, 180 

Easy method of purifying water, ih. 
The best method of obtaining pure soft water, for 

medicinal purposes, without distilling it, ih. 
To purify river, or any other muddy water, 181 
Wann water, ih. 
To make sea water fit for washing linen at sea, ih. 
Proper method of making toast and water, ih. 
To make a vessel for filtering water, 182 
The Turkish method of filtering water by ascen- 
sion, 183 
To preserve lemon juice during a long voyage, ih. 
Method of preserving grapes, 184 
Singular and simple manner of preserving apples 

from the effects of frost, in North America, ih. 

To keep oranges and lemons, 185 

New method of preserving potatoes^ 186 



l^Yln CONTENTS. 

• ' Page, 

To preserve potatoes from the fro^t, 186 

JUediod of recovering frost-bitteq fruits and vcgetr 

ables, 1B7 

To preserve apples, ib. 

Preservation of succulent plants, ib. 

A method of preserving fruit fresh all the year, lb. 
To preserve hazel nuts in great perfection foi: 

many months, . 188 

To manage ripe fruit for a dessert, ib. 

To preserve aromatics and other herbs, ib. 

To preserve grapes till winter, 1 89 

Walnut ketchup, ib. 

To cork and preserve cider in bottles, . 190 

To make excellent punch, ib. 

To make a pleasant, sober, and refreshing drink 

for sununer, '' ib. 

To make the German liquor, mum, . ib. 

To make the celebrated eastern beverc^ called 

sherbet, 191 

To make birch-tree wine^ ib. 

Currant wine, ib. 

Elder wine, ^ 192 

Grape wine, ib. 

An excellent family wine, ib. 

To extract syrup^m>m Indian com« 193 

Excellent bitter K>r the stomach, ib. 

To detect sugar of le^ in wines^ ib. 

A test, for discovering in wwes, metals that are 

injurious to the hedth, 194 

Substitute for soap, easily prepared in small quan« 

tities by private families in the country, 195 

To make Jamaica vegetable soap, 1 07 

To make Lady Derby's soap, ib. 

To make British herb tea, 198 

British substitute for foreign tea, ib. 

Another, i^' 

Another, i^* 

The virtues of sage, 199 

To prevent excessive thirst, in cases of emergen- 
cy at sea, in the suninertime* ib< 



CONTENTS. XVII. 

Manner of preserving eggs perfectly fresh for 

twelve Qionths, 200 

Mother, 201 

Cream preserved in long voyages, ib. 

Substitute for human milk, where, from any cir- 
cumstance it cannot be procured for children, ib. 
To make old man's milk : a nutricious and pleasant 

beverage, ib. 

To make artificial asses' milk, 202 

To prevent disagreeable smells from privies, 

night-chairs, &c. ib. 

To free molasses from their sharp taste, and to 

render them fit to be used instead of sugar, ib. 

To destroy bugs, 203 

Another, 204 

Economy in fuel , 205 

Another method, 206 

Economy in tinder, ib. 

Plate powder, ib. 

UsefiilneM of clivers, or goose-grass, 207 

Important use of the leaves of the vine, ib. 

Valuable properties of cherry-tree gum, ib. 

Valuable properties of the helianthus annuus, or 

8un-flower, ib. 

Remedies against fleas, 208 

Fly-water, ib. 

To make a wholesome food of cashew nuts, ib. 

Economy in candles, ib. 

Curious small cakes of incense for perfuming 

apartments, 209 

Tp prevent the disagreeable smell arising from 

house drains, ib. 

Polished tea-urns preferable to varnished ones, ib. 
Management of razor-straps, 210 

Essence of soap for shaving or washing hands, ib. 

Composition for shaving, without the use of razor, 

soap, or water, ib. 

To prevent accidents from leaving a poker in the 

fire, 211 

Economical inode of cutting cauliflower ^ \\i« 

B 



XVJIl. CONTENTS. 

Substitute for milk or cream, 212 
Necessary hints to those who use copper vessels 

for culinary purposes, t6. 
To prevent lamps from being pernicious to asth- 
matic persons, or others, liable to complaints of 

the chest, 213 

To make economical wicks for lamps, ih. 

Useful properties of celandine, ih. 

Economical use of roots of trees, ih. 

Application of the roots of fir-trees or pines, 214 

Useful properties of red spurge, ib. 
Paste or food for singing-birds, superior to the 

German paste in common use, 215 

CHAPTER JiW\\,—DJRAWmG. ih. 

To make transparent paper for drawing, ib. 
To trace drawings or prints against the light, 216 
Method of using tracing paper, ib. 
To copy drawings, &c. with fixed materials, ib. 
To transfer any impression with vermilion, 217 
Transparent paper, ib. 
Method of copying a design, ib. 
To preserve pencil and chalk drawings, ib. 
Method of setting pencil drawings, 218 
Wash for preserving drawings, made with a black- 
lead pencil, or with hard black chalk, ib. 
Easy method of taking off a perfect copy of a print 

or drawing, ib. 

To make a drawing desk or frame, 219 

CHAPTER jy\\\.— DROWNING, 220 

Method of rendering assistance to persons in dan- 
ger of drowning, ib. 

Method of recovering persons apparently drown- 
ed, as recommended by the Humane Society, 221 

CHAPTER WX,— DYEING. ib.. 

To make a liquid for staining bone or wood of dif- 
ferent colours^ ib. 

Art of dyeing or staining leather gloves, to resem- 

ble the beautiful York tan, Limerick dye, &c, 222 



CONTENTS. XIX. 

Page. 
To' stain wood a fine black, 222 

To stain wood a beautiful red or mahogany colour, ib. 
To make nankeen dye, 223 

To dye cotton a fine buff colour, *^. 

Substitute for galls in dyeing, and also in making 

ink, »'^- 

IJ^sy method of dyeing yellow or green, 224 

To stain wood green, *^» 

To stain horn to imitate tortoise shell, ib, 

{substitute for verdigris in dyeing black, 225 

Another subttitute for verdigris, 226 

CHAPTER XX.—PLEASIJVG EXPERIMENTS. 227 

To produce gas light on a small scale, ih. 

The phosphoric pencil, ih* 

The fire bottle, ih. 

To make the phosphoric match-bottle, ib. 

To make an illumiucited or phosphoiic l)ottle, 

which will retain its light for several months, 228 
To take impressions on paper from designs made 

on stone, ih. 

A cheap and simple process for painting on glass, 

sufficient for the purpose of making a magic Ian- 

tliorn 229 

To make transparent screens for the exhibition of 

the phantasmagoria, ih. 

Thunder powder, ih. 

CHAPTER XXL— FARRIERY. 230 

A receipt for the colic in a horse, ih. 

Distemper in dogs, ih. 

To know whether a dog is mad or not,- ih. 

CHAPTER XXIL— FIRE. 231 

Method of extinguishing fires in chimnies, ih. 

To extricate horses from fire, ib. 

Method of rendering all sorts of paper, linen, and 

cotton less combustible, 232 

To prevent wood, linen, &c. from catching fire, ib. 
Method to escape from fire, ^\>. 



XX. CONTENTS. 

Pagi. 
To make water more efficacious io extinguishing 

fires, 233 

To extinguish fires speedily, ib. 

Hint respecting women's and children's clothes 

catching fire, * ib. 

To stop the progress of fire on board of ships, 234 

CHAPTER XXllL— FIRE-ARMS ULKD THE MA- 
NAGEMENT OF GUNPOWDER.) 233 

To brown gun-barrels, ih. 

To keep arms and polished metals from rust, ib. 
To prevent humidity from being prejudicial to 

powder magazines, * ib. 
To recover damaged gunpowder, 236 
To increase the force of gunpowder, ib. 
iVIethod of increasing the effects oif gunpowder, 
and also showing the necessity of certain pre- 
cautions in loading fire-srms, ib, 

CHAPTER XXIY .—FIRE-WORKS. 237 

To make sky-rockets, ib. 

Improvement in fire- works, 23U 

CHAPTER XXV.^^ARDEJS-mG—BOTjVSrY. 

Sect. I. — Management of Green-hause^^c. ib. 

Proper situation for a green-house or room, ib. 

I'o air plants, and ventilate rooms wherein they 
are contained, ib. 

Sect. U.-Seeds, 239 

Gasy method of discovering whether or not seeds 
are sufliciently ripe, ib. 

On preserving seeds of plants in a state fit for ve- 
getation, 1^. 

To facilitate the growth of foreign seeds, 240 

Sect. HI. — Management of Garden borders y ib» 

To plant and make edgings, ib. 

How to cut box-edgings, ib. 

A sure method of curing gravel-walke, 241 



coiTTEi^TS. sni. 

Page. 
Sect. IV. — Culture and management officrsoerBy 241 

Proper method of laying carnations , ih. 

Plants watered by being placed in dishes, impro- 
per, 244 
When to plant annual and perennial flowers, ih. 
To remove herbs and flowers in the sunmier, 245 
Method of growing flowers and fruits during winter, ih. 
To preserve delicate young shoots of flowers from 

slugs and earwig, ih. 

Virtues of the sun-flower, 246 

To preserve flower seeds, ih- 

Sect. V. — Culture and treatment of fruit trees 
and shrubs, ih* 

To prevent blossom and frurt trees from being 

damaged by early spring frost ih. 

Chinese mode of propagating fruit trees 247 

To improve fruit trees by attention to the colour 

of the soil ih. 

To increase the growth in trees 248 

To prevent hares and rabbits from barking young 

plantations ih. 

BaA effects of iron nails, &c. on fruit trees, or mis- 
chievous effects of iron nails in conjunction with 
branches of fruit-trees 249 

To destroy moss on trees ih. 

Necessity of taking off superfluous suckers from 

shrubs ih. 

To cure the disease in apple trees ih. 

To cure the canker in trees 250 

A method of curing fruit trees infected with an 

easterly blight ih. 

£xperienced method of healing wounds in trees 251 
Composition for hCfiling wounds in trees ih. 

To prune wall fruit ih. 

To prune vines to advantage 252 

The most proper time when leaves of trees ought 
to be collected for pharmaceutical and economi- 
cal purposes ih. 



XXII. COXTENTS^ 

Page, 

Sect. W.-Ctdture and management of garden crops j 252 

To propagate herbs by slips and cuftings t6. 

New method of rendering asparagus more produc- 
tive, and of producing it every month in the year 268 
To raise capsicums, and make Cayenne pepper 254 
New method of raising cucumbers . 256 

To prevent the irregular growth of melons 256 

Easy method of producing mushrooms %b. 

To obtain a good crop of onions • ib. 

The advantage of sowing peas in circles instead of 

straight rows ib. 

To raise peas in autumn, and to prevent mice 

from eating them when sown 257 

Method of cultivating radishes for salad, so as to 
• have them ready at all seasons of the year 258 

To preserve strawberry plants from the heat of 

the sun, &c. 259 

Directions for managing strawberries in summer ib. 
To cultivate the common garden rhubarb 2G0 

Method of cultivating and curing Turkey rhubarb 

from seed 2G1 

Cultivation of Turkey rhubarb by offsets 262 

Method of curing rhubarb ib. 

Proper soil for the culture of turnips ib. 

Preservation of succulent plants 263 

Various useful properties of tobacco to gardeners ib. 

CHAPTER XX\l.— HEALTH. 265 

Sect. I. — General rules for the preservation of healthy ib. 

Avoid, as much as possible, living near church- 
yards ib. 

Valuable concise rules for preserving health in 

winter ib. 

Cautions in visiting sick rooms 266 

Preventive of autumnal rheumatisms ib. 

To promote sleep i6. 

The use of tai^-water in expanding the lungs of 

public speakers,. &c. 2(>7 

German method of preventing hysterics ib. 

Hints for ventilating stage-coaches ib. 



CONTENTS. XXlii. 

Page. 
Best mode of avoiding the fatal accidents of open 

carriages 268 

To fumigate foul rooms ib. 

To make a truly valuable fumigation powder ib. 

To make balsamic and anti-putrid vinegar 269 

Sect. II. — On the Eye, 270 

General rules for the choice of spectacles, and for 
the preservation of the sight ib. 

Of preservers, and rules for the preservation of 
sight 271 

Comjfort for those nearly blind 274 

To cure a bruise in the eye 276 

Sect. III. — Antidotes io noxious substances and Ani' 
mals, ib. 

To prevent the effects of poison of lead on pain- 
ters, glaziers. Sic, ib. 

To prevent the baneful effects of burning charcoal 276 

To prevent the mischief arising from the bite of a 
mad dog ib. 

To prevent death from the bite of venomous ani- 
n^ 277 

To counteract the baneful effects of poison ib. 

Cure /or the poison of the deadly night-shade 278 

Sect. IV,'— Management, ^c. of the teeth, ib. 

Method of causing children to cut their teeth easily iA. 
Rules for the preservation of the teeth and gums 279 
To prevent the tooth-ache ib. 

Easy, safe, and pleasant method of removing tar- 
tar from the teeth 280 
■ Tincture for the teeth and gums ib. 
Tooth-powder 281 
Another «. ib. 

Sect. V. — Remedies for various local qff'ections, ib. 

Easy and almost instantaneous cure for the ague ib. 
Bf . Homassers account of his cure for burns or 

scalds ib. 

Remedy for hums ^%^ 



XXIV. CONTENTS. 

Page. 
Another 28f 

Efficacy of vinegar in curing burns and scalds %b» 

Porter plaster for bruises 283 

Easy method of attracting earwigs from the ear ib* 

To kill earwigs or other insects, which may acci- 
dentally have crept into the ear t6. 
For a pain in the ear tft. 
Remedy for deafness 284 
For chilblains %b. 
To prevent corns from growing on the feet ib. 
Cure for warts tb. 
Court plaster ib. 
Certain cure for the cramp 285 
Simple remedy for the cure of lameness by contraction t6. 
To make cliver, or goose grass ointment, remark- 
able for its salutary effects in cases of inveter- 
ate scurvy 288 
Easy method of curing the sea scurvy ib. 
Method for the speedy recovery of Uie use of the 

foot or hand that has been violently sprained 287 
To alleviate the pain occasioned by the sting of 

gnats 288 

Simple and effectual cure for those who may have 

accidentally swallowed a wasp ib. 

To cure the sting of a wasp or bee, ib. 

Another ib. 

Another ib. 

Another 289 

To prevent sea sickness, ib. 

A common drink for a sore throat, 290 

Gargle for a sore throat, ib. 

A receipt for a cough, ib. 

An excellent stjrptic, ^ ib.' 

A new and useful styptic, ib. 

Infallible remedy for stopping feeding of the nose, 291 
For curing worms in the human body, ib. 

To make an improved tincture of bark, 292 

Observations on leeches, and their use, ib. 

Singularlv useful properties of garlic, 296 

The useuilness of two common plants, 296 



CONTEN.T.S. XXy, 

Page. 
CHAPTER XXVII.— /A^JiT. 296 

To make ink, «^« 
To make one gallon of black writing ink, 297 
Red ink, »*• 
To prevent ink from moulding, ' 298 
To make Indian ink, ih' 
To make China ink, ih. 
Substitute for Indian ink, ih, 
German black for printers, 299 
Permanent writing ink, ih. 
Permanent red ink for marking linen, 300 
To make sympathetic or invisible ink, ih. 
To make stuchum, or perpetual ink of the an- 
cients, for writing on stone, 301 

CHAPTER XXVIII. PAINT— PMNT- 

INGS— MANAGEMENT OF COLOURS. ib. 

Directions for painting rooms, rails, &c. ib. 

To prepare drying oil and paint, ib. 

For the second priming, 302 

To make putty and finish painting, ib. 

To prejJare blue colour from verdigris, ib. 

Lead-coloured paint for preserving iron, ib. 

Method of preparing a cheap and durable substi- 
tute for oil paint, as durable as that prepared 
with oil, and free from any bad smell, 303 

Cheap black paints from earthy and mineral sub- 
stances, ib. 

To make brown paint, ib. 

Composition for preserving weather-boarding, 
paling, and all other works liable to be injured 
by the weather, 304 

To prepare the beautiful colour called Naples 
yellow, 305 

Another method, ib. 

Mrs. Hooker ^s method of preparing and applying 
a composition for painting in imitation of the 
ancient Grecian manner, 306 

To clean oil paintings, 310 

To take off, instantly, a copy frdm a print or pic- 
tare, \b. 



XXVI. CONTENTS. 

To clean and whiten prints or engravings, 310 

To make mezzotinos, 311 

To judge of transparent colours for painting, 312 

To prepare ivory leaves for miniature painters, ib. 

How to stencil, or multiply patterns, for working 
- muslins, &c. ib. 

To stain paper or parchment yellow, ib. 

To stain paper or parchment crimson, 313 

To stain paper or parchment green, ib. 

CHAPTER XXlX.—PERFUMES^COSMETICS. ib. 

To make an excellent smelling-bottle, ib. 

To make jessamine butter or pomatum, 314 

To make milk of roses, ib. 

Wash for the skin, ib. 

Method of extracting essences from flowers, ib. 

To make the quintessence of lavender, or other 
aromatic herb, 315 

To obtain aromatic oils from the pellicle, which 
envelopes the seeds of the laurus sassafras, and 
laurus benzoin, ib. 

To preserve aromatic and other herbs, 316 

Lavender water, ib. 

Another, ib. 

To make rose water, 317 

To make eau de luce, and its use, ib. 

To make Hungary water, ib. 

To make otto (or odour) of roses, ib. 

To make lip salve, 318 

To make the celebrated pomade divine, 319 

To make soft pomatum, ib. 

To make hard pomatum, ib. 

Genuine Windsor soap, ib. 

To prepare aromatic vinegar, 320 

Essence of soap for shaving or washing hands, ib. 

To increase the growth of hair, 32 1 

To know whether hair-powder is adulterated 
with lime, ib. 

To perfume hair-powder. ib. 

I'reparation of the Greek-water (or the solution of 
silver, for the converting red or light-coloured 
hair into a dee^ brown,) ib. 



CONTENTS. XXVU. 

Page. 
A more convenient dye for the hair, 323 

CHAPTER XXX.— J?JT5. 324 

To destroy rat? and other vermin, ih. 

Another method of destroying rats, jh. 

To destroy rats or mice, ih. 

A mouse trap, by which forty or fifty mice may be 

canght in h night, ib. 

New, simple, and effectual method of destroying 

rats, 325 

Dr. Taylor's"^ cheap and efficacious method of des- 
troying rats, 'b. 

To prevent the burrowing of rats, iu houses,- 327 

CHAPTER XXXI.— SPOTS OR STAINS. 328 

To make portable balls, for removing rpots from 
clothes in general, ib. 

The fumes of brimstone useful in removing spots 
or stsiins in linen, &c. ib. 

To remove spots of grease from paper, ib. 

Substitute for salt of sorrel, for removing ink 
spots and iron-moulds, 329 

Expeditious method of taking out stains from scar- 
let, or velvet of any other colour, ib. 

To take spots effectually out of silk, linen, or wool- 
en, ib. 

To take the stains of grease from woolen or silk, ib. 

Easy and safe method of discharging grease spots 
from woolen cloths, 330 

To take out spots of ink, ib. 

To take iron-moulds cnt of linen, ib. 

To take out spots on silk, ib. 

To take wax out of velvet of all colours, except 
crimson, ib. 

Process for preparing nitrous acid for extracting 
stains, &c. from tanned leather, 331 

To extract grease spots from paper, 333 

To remove spots of grease from books and prints, ib. 

To take spots out of cloths, stuffs, silk, cotton, 
and linen, 332 

Remedy against the effects of ink, when just spiU<id, ZZ'h 



XXVUl. COKTIKTS. 

Page, 

CHAPTER XXXIL— TIMBER. 334 

To promote the growth of forest trees, ib. 
White -washing the trunks of trees recommended, ib. 
To cure wounds in trees, 336 
Mr. Forsyth's method of curing injuries and de- 
fects in fruit and forest trees, ib. 
To preserve wood in damp situations, 337 
Cause and prevention of the dry rot, * 338 
Cure for the dry rot in timber, so as to make it in- 
destructible by water, ib. 
Method of trying the goodness of timber for ship- 
building, used in the arsenal at Vienna, ib. 
To season and render green timber immediately 
fit for use, ib. 

CHAPTER XXXUh—FARN-ISHES. 340 

Observations on varnishes, ib. 
General observations on making varnishes of all 

kinds, 343 

Of varnishes with spirits of wine, 344 

Colourless spirit varnish of mastic and sandarac, ib. 

Varnish for violins and musical instruments, ib. 

Gold-colour varnish, 345 

General observations on spirit varnishes, ib. 

Oil varnishes, 346 

Copal varnish, 347 

Another, ib. 

Another, ib. 

Gold-colour varnish or lacquer, 348 

Black japan, ib. 

Common varnish, ib. 

Varnishes with turpentine alone, ib. 

Common turpentine varnish, ib. 

Elastic gum varnish, 349 

Varnishes of gums, ib. 

Martin's copsd varnish, ib. 

Amber varnish, 360 

Varnish for coloured drawings and prints> ib. 

To varnish plaster casts or models, ib. 

Another way, 36^ 

Varnisb for earthenware, ih. 



CONTENTS. XXIX. 

Page. 

French soil varnish for engravers, 361 

Varnish for furniture, ib. 

A varnish for toilet-boxes, cases, fans, &c. ib. 

Preparation of the true copal varnish, 352 

To make varnish for oil paintings, ib. 

To make white varnish, ib. 

Another, by Dr. Withering, ib. 

A varnish for preserving insects, fruits, &c. 353 

Method of preparing linseed oil varnish, ib. 

Varnish for pales and coarse wood work, 354 

To make gold varnish , 355 

Varnish for drawings, prints, &c. 356 

To make a lacquer for brass, ib. 

. To make Chinese varnish, 357 
Varnish to prevent the rays oi the sun from passing 

through the glasses of windows, ib. 

Seed-lac varnish, ib. 

Shell -lac varnish, ib. 

CHAPTER XXXIV.— EFFICACIOUS REMEDIES 
FOR DESTROYIKG VERMIN, 358 

To destroy ants, ib. 

Another, ib. 

To destroy beetles, ib. 

Another method, ib. 

For destroying bugs and worms in wood, 359 

To drive away crickets, ib. 

To destroy crickets, ib. 

Methods of stopping the ravages of the caterpillars 
from shrubs, plants, and vegetables, ib. 

Liquor for destroying caterpillars, ants, and other 
insects, 360 

For destroying caterpillars on gooseberry bushes, ib. 

To preserve flowers, leaves, and fruits, from ca- 
terpillars, 361 
^ Method to destroy or drive away earth-worms, and 
^ other insects, hurtful to fields and gardens, 362 

To destroy ear-wigs and wood-lice, ib. 

Remedies against Seas, 363 

To destroy fleas on dogs, ib. 



X3CX» CONTENTS. 

Page. 

To clear gardens of vermin by ducks, 363 

The use of garlic against moles, grubs, and snails, ib. 
The use of sulphur in destroying insects on plants, 

and its benefit for vegetation, 364 

Method of destroying insects on fruit trees, ib. 

To destroy insects prejudicial to apple trees, 366 

To destroy insects on fruit-trees, ib. 

To kill reptiles, 366 

To prevent slugs getting into fruit-trees, ib. 

To destroy snails and the red spider, ib. 

vermin, 367 

insects on wall fruit trees, 368 

■ wasps and hornets, ib. 

worms in gardens, &c. 370 

Usefulness of the wren in destroying insects, ib. 

CHAPTER XXXV.— WATER. 371 

To make artificial sea-water, ib. 

To disperse noxious vapours from wells, 372 

CHAPTER XXXVL—IVLVES. 373 

To make British Champagne, ib. 

Koumiss (a Tartar wine,) ib. 

orange wine, 374 

excellent American wine, ib. 

CHAPTER XXXVIL— WTJ/TAVG. 376 

i>ecret methods of writing, ib. 377 

To write blue and red letters at once with the same 

ink and pen, and on the same paper, ib. 

To write different colours on the same paper with 

the juice of violets, 378 

To write in the dark, as straight as by day or can- 
dle light, ib. 

To form letters of gold on paper, and for orna- 
ments of writing, ib. 

Methods of copying letters without the use of a 

copying machine, 379 

To make durable writing on paper, ib. 

To preserve letters from being opened, ib. 



CONTENTS. 

Page, 

To take out wiriting, 380 
Method of recovering the legibility of decayed 

writings, ib. 

To revive old writings which are almost defaced, 381 
To gild letters on vellum or paper, ib. 

To make pounce, 382 
Method of obtaining exact copies of inscriptions, ib. 

CHAPTER XXXyilL—MISCELLAJSTEOUS JIE- 

CEIPTS. 383 

To make excellent ink, ib. 

Quicksilver, 384 
To revive a dull fire, ib; 

Small pox, ib. 

Against the blatta or cock-roaches, 385 
Corns and wavts, ib. 

To destroy snails and slugs, ib. 

To prevent paper from sinking, ib. 

To harden plaster of Paris or casts, ib. 

To change hair to a deep brown, ib. 

Pearl-white, 386 
To detect copper in liquids, ib. 

To take off a gold ring, sticking tight on a finger, ib. 
To detect the mixture of arsenic, ib. 

To try the purity of spirits, ib. 
To raise a salad quickly, ib. 

To destroy grubs, ib. 

Remedy for burns or scalds, 387 

A com plaster, ib. 

To keep off flies, ib. 

For preserving the nails, ib. 

To take away superfluous hair, ib. 

To make phosphorus, ib. 

To discharge grease from leather, 388 

To prevent wounds from mortifying, ib. 

To discharge grease from paper, ib. 

Substitute for flax, ib. 

Economical use of nutmegs, 389 

To ascertain the quality of nutmegs, ib. 



XXXii. CONTENTS. 

Page. 
To increase the durability of tiles, 390 
To prevent brass vessels from contracting verdi- 
gris, ib. 
Improved mode of preserving flowers, ib. 
Vanherman's durable white paint, ib. 
Useful knife-board, 391 
To cure chapped or sore lips, ib. 
To mark sheep without injury to tl^ wool, ib. 
To promote the growth of hair, 392 
To fatten turkies as they do in Norfolk, ib. 
To judge of the weather, ib. 
Substitute for grease for coach-wheels, 393 
Excellent varnish for umbrellas, ib. 



COLLECTION 



OF 



RECEIPTS. 



CHAPTER I- 

AGRICULTURE. 



SECT. I.~MANA6EM£NT OF THE SOIL, ite. 

!• Method of employing Fallozo Grounds to ad- 

vantage* 

I PLANTED OD about half an acre of fallow, of an 
indifiTerent quality, the soil inclining to sand, some 
potatoes in straight lines, two feet asunder, and 
the plants forty inches distant in the rows, plough- 
ing the intervals three times in the summer, that 
is to say every six weeks. 

The plough that was used was very light, and 
without wheels, and with two horses going one be- 
fore the other ; it was easy to draw two furrows, 
about five inches deep, without much damaging the 
j'oots, * 

^My workman, at first, smiled at my attempt : the 
potatoes sprouted but sloy?]y, and did not seem to 
promise any great success jbut after thefirst plough- 
ing they got forward; and after the other two plough- 
ing^ were, to the full, as forward as those of my 
neighbours, which had been plentifully AwTi^^di% — 

C 



26 AGRICULTURE. 

Finally, after Ihe third ploughing, every one was 
astonished to see that the stalks of my potatoes, 
which had not been at all dunged, were fresh and 
green, when the stalks of others, which had been 
dunged, were turned yellow, withered and almost 
dry. 

In a word, this piece of ground yielded me in au- 
tumn half.as many potatoes as the same quantity of 
land would have done in the ordinary method of 
planting, and these were all'of a delicious flavour. 

Remark. — Potatoes, however, are known to be a 
scourging crop : they require as much dung, or (if 
it be withheld) will impoverish the ground as much 
as a crop of oats. By putting straw into the fur- 
rows, where the roots are dropped, oreven by keep- 
ing the earth loose by frequent stirring, a tolerable 
crop of potatoes may often be raised without dung ; 
but more injury is done to the ground than the va- 
lue of the crop of potatoes will repay. 

% Advantages of planting Waste Lands with JJlder» 

Alder thrives wonderfully in swampy grounds, 
an^l its uses are so various as to adapt it to an al- 
most endless variety of purposes. The wood of 
this tree isingreat esteem and demand formachine- 
ry ; the cogs for mill wheels formed of it being pro- 
ved, by experience, to be superior to any other. — 
his commonly used for bobbins ; and the country 
people (in England) wear shoes, or, -as they are ge- 
nerally termed, clogs, made of it. Its excellent 
quality of resisting injury from water is universally 
acknowledged : hence its great value for pump- 
trees, pipes, drains, conduits to reservoirs, piles 
under water, and all kinds of wood work which are 
kept constantly wet. It is much to be lamented, 
that the valuable properties of its bark should be 



MANAGEMENT OF THE SOIL, 27 

SO little kDOwn, that in most instances it is buried 
with the tree. The black dyers of cotton stuffs 
know its value, and make much use of it. They 
purchase it at the rate of seven to eight-pence Iho 
stone, laid down at their dye-houses. It is not chop- 
ped, but sold as it is stripped from the tree, after 
it has become moderately dry ; so that there i& no 
expense in chopping and cleaning i<, as is the rase 
with oak bark. It might be used to great advan- 
tage ^(i^n excellent substitute for many woods used 
in dying, which we have from abroad, and on which 
we expend considerable sums. 

3. To prevent mxich mis thief to Sea Embankmeniv^ 

or those of Ilivers. 

"Where a breach is actually made therein, it may 
be prevented from increasing in width, by an early 
>applicatioh of old sails, fastened to each side of the 
breach where the water enters, which will allow 
the water to slide over them, and hinder more of 
the earth from being carried away. 



SECT. Ih— FARM OFFICES. 

4. Useful hint^ whereby Farmers may make a sav- 
ing in the article of Thatching, 

The barns and tenements of many farmers hold- 
ing on lease, and obliged to repair, being thatched, 
and sudden winds sometimes making much thatch- 
ing necessary, farmers would (>o well to make a rick 
of wheat straw, except it happens to be very short, 
and then they would keep their stack two years, 
and make anew one the second. 
• The author of this article says, that thoughhe not 
only ricks his straw, but slighly thalc\\e?» V\\?> \\ti«. 



28 AGRICULTURE. 

to keep out the weather, be has, in ten years, gain- 
ed 53/. by the practice, beside what he' saved by 
not being obliged to thrash wheat for ^traw at an 
improper sjeason. 

5. 'Curious mode of making Earthen Barn Floors • 

Many ofthe barns in the Cots wold Hills, or Wolds 
of Gloucestershire, have a species of earthen 'floor 
which 19 generally tho(^ght to surpass jQoors |C stone 
or any other material, except sound oak prank. — 
Their superior excellence is partly owing, to the 
materials of which they are composed, and partly 
to the method of using them for this purpose. The 
materials are equal parts of a kind of ordinary gra- 
vel, the calcareous earth ofthe subsoil, as found in 
different parts of these hills, and the chippings of 
free stone, or calcareous granite, from the free-stone 
quarries. The principle of making these floors is, 
perhaps, as least in Great Britain, peculiar to these 
hills. In other parts ofthe united kingdom, earth- 
en barn floors are always made with wet materials, 
a kind of mortar, which is liable to crack as it dries, 
and which requires drying for -some months after 
being made, before it grows hard enough for use. 
Here, on the contrary, the materials are worked 
dry ; of course they do not crack, and are ready for 
use immediately on their being finished. The pro- 
cess commences by ihixing the above materials to- 
gether in equal quantities, and twice sifting them : 
the first time, through a wide sieve, to catch the 
stones and larger gravel, which are thrown to the 
bottom ofthe floor : the next through a finer sieve, 
toseparate the more earthy parts from the finer gra- 
vel, which is spread on the stones. Above that are 
then regularly distributed the more earthy parts : 
trimming down, closely and firmly on each other, 
the diflerent layers, and making the whole about a 



FARM-OFFICES. 29 

foot in thickness. The surface being levelled, is 
next beaten with a flat wooden beetle, made like a 
gardener^s turf beater, till the floor becomes as hard 
as stone, and rings at every stroke like metal. 
These floors are extreifnely lasting : being equally 
proof against the besom and the flail. Th(* materi- 
als, it is true, cannot be procured in many districts ; 
buf, the principle of making barn floors with dry 
materials being kept in view, other substances may, 
on a fair trial, be found to answerthe same purpose. 
This practice of hardening earthen floors, &c. by 
excessive beating, is practised in several parts of 
the world ; and in the kingdom of Naples as well 
as in the island of Malta, where the tops of the hou- 
ses are constantly flat, the cement of which they 
are composed, though sprinkled with water, in that 
warm climate, is rendered so hard and dry, as well 
as so compact, smooth and even, by continued beat- 
ing, that the rain is carried ofl*from them with the 
same freedom as from any flat leaden or copper roof, 
without being at all subject to any sort of corrosion. 
The lime ash floors, in Devonshire, made of the 
refuse of the lime kilns, and ash of the Welsh stone 
coal, with which the lime-stone is burned, are of a 
similar kind. 

6. To make durahlt Barn Floors. 

A durable barn floor may be made of well burnt 
polished brick on edge, placed in the herring- bone 
lorrn, on a pavement of stone three inches and a 
half in thickness ; or oaken plank two inches and a 
half in thickness : or even of well-tempered indu- 
rated loam, of a proper substance, not less than 
eight inches, and laid upon drj materials, or bottom. 
— ^Any of them will make a durable barn floor, pro- 
vided it is kept free from wet, waggon wheels, and 
horses feet. The best thrashing floor for small farms 

C 2 



30 AGRICULTURE. 

of 150 acres is made of sound plank. In larger 
farms (say 300 acres and upward) the thrashing 
machine should supersede the filail. 

7. The Virtues of Poplar Wood for the Flooring of 

Granaries. 

The Lombard poplar is recommended as a tim- 
ber adapted for flooring granaries, which is said to 
prevent the destruction of corn by wevils and in- 
sects* Poplar wood will not easily take fire. 



SECT. III.— WATER. 

8. Easy method of obtaining Water in almost any 

situation* 

The ground must be perforated by a borer. Iq 
the perforation is placed a wooden pipe, which is 
driven down with a mallet, after which the boring 
is continued, that the pipe may be driven still far- 
ther. In proportion as the cavity of the borer be- 
comes loaded, it is drawn up and emptied ; and in 
time by the addition of new portions of wooden 
pipe, the boring is carried to any depth, and water 
is generally obtained. 

9. To keep Ponds and artificial pieces of Water free 

from Weeds. 

At the marquis of Exeter's seat, near Burghley, 
there is an artificial piece of water, about a mile in 
length, which used to be so overrun with weeds, 
that three men were employed constantly, for six 
months in every year, to keep them under, in which 
they never perfectly succeeded. About sevenyears 
ago, two pair of swans were put on the water : — 



WATER — FENCES. 31 

they completely cleared away all the weeds (he first 
year, and none have appeared since, as the swans 
constantly eat them before they rise to the surface. 

lOt Method of draining Ponds in level Grounds. 

At a certain distance below the surface of the 
earth, there sometimes is a stratum of loose sand, 
ivhich freely admits the passage of water. This 
stratum is at various depths, in different elevations ; 
but it will be generally found, that lands most sub- 
ject to stagnant ponds have but a shallow stratum 
of clay over the sand. All that is necessary there- 
fore is to dig a pit in the bottom of the pond, till 
you arrive at this stratum of sand, when the water 
will be immediately absorbed, and the pond emp- 
tied. 



SECT. IV.— FENCES. 
11. To make a Quickset Hedge or Fence* 

Quick fences often become open in many places 
at bottom, notwithstanding the utmost attention, 
and more especially if neglected. The barberry 
shrub, on the contrary, will make an impenetrable 
fence^ and always close at the bottom, because it 
pats up numerous suckers from the roots, which fill 
every vacancy. It may as easily be rai<^ed from 
the berries as quick as hr^'-vthorn, and it grows fas- 
ter. The suckers also will strike root easily, espe- 
cially if planted early. 'I'hese shrubs. may be had 
iat most nurseries. The barberry, however, can 
never make so strong a fence as a good well trained 
hawthorn hf di^e. But there are situations w here it 
may be preferable ; on the top of a high bai.k, (for 
it is comparatively a light shrub,) as in (he Devon- 



32 A(;^IUCULTUR£* 

s 

shire hedges, for mixing with other plants in a 
hedge, or stopping gaps in an old hedge. For the 
last pi^rpose the common sweet-briaf [the seedlings 
of which may be raised in almost any situation for 
10^. a thousand) is also excellent. 

12. To train Evergreen and other Hedges. 

Evergreen hedges may be dipt about the begin- 
ning, but no later than the middle of April, as by 
that time they will be^in to grow, and it is proper 
that this work should be previously performed. 
Some content themselves with clipping but once a 
year, in which case the end of July, or 1st of Au- 
gust, is a better time. 

In trimming these, or indeed any hedge intended 
as a close fence, they should be dressed up to a thin 
edge at top, as otherwise they are apt to get full of 
gaps below : and the cause is obvious, that the un- 
der part, in square or cut hedges, is too much shad- 
ed by the upper part. Now, by sloping the sides, 
every part of the hedge is freely exposed to the air, 
nor is any part over-dropped by another. A 
hedge, intended merely as a fence, need seldom be 
more than five feet high, or at most six. Screen 
hedges may be allowed to run to any height thought 
necessary for that purpose, neither is it requisite to 
trim them so often as fence hedges : once a year, or 
in two years, may be sufficient. 

In the training of any hedge, it should not be 
topped or shortened, until it has arrived at a full 
yard in height ; but it may then have a little taken 
off the points, in order to make it bush the better, 
and shoot of a more regular height afterwards. The 
sides, however,.6hould be trimmed from the second 
or third year of planting, that it may grow the more 
complete and close below, for therein consists the 
excellence of any fence. It should not, in top- 



TEAMS. S3 

ping, at any time, while in traTming, be much cut 
in, as that would make it push the stronger at top, 
to the detriment of the sides. When fence hedges 
outgrow their limits, they must of course be cut 
either jp^hoily or partly down ; but if they be tolera- 
bly well kept, it is seldom necessary to cut them 
down more than half to the ground. 



SECT, v.— TEAMS. 

1 3. Great advantage of Ploughing ioith Oxen in^ 

. stead of Horses. 

A te^m of four young horses will frequently cost 
a hundred or a hundred and twenty guineas, and in 
six or seven years time will be mere jades ; whereas, 
on the other hand, a much less sum will purchase 
four capital six-year old oxen, which, after they 
have worked five or six years, and have been kept 
at two thirds of the expense of horses, will fetch as 
much, or more, than their first cost. 

Remark* — The advantage of preferring oxen to 
horses, however is disputed by the most eminent 
practical farmers. The principal point is, that the 
profit of a farmer, particularly in bad seasons, often 
depends on the getting his work done within a given 
time. In emergencies, a horse may be fed up to 
almost any work. But an ox, however fed, will 
sink under his labour, if tasked beyond his ordina- 
ry rate. The farmer does not lose his half-worked 
horses, for there is a demand for them by higglers, 
petty carriers, and others, to whom of course he 
sells them when they become less fit than at first for 
bis more severe work. The argument is stated as 
fully, and perhaps as temperately, in the article 
** Agriculture j^^ in the " Edin6urgh Encyclopadiay^^ 



34 AGRICULTURE. 

as in any ^ther place* It is too long for this col* 
lection* 

1 4, Useful Hints relative to Carters and Teams of 

Oxen. 

Do not retard the growth of your beasts of draft, 
endanger their health, render them insignificant in 
the eyes of many, and disgustful to their keepers, 
by working them too young. There is no danger 
of their becoming unmanageable ; nose rings re- 
claim them, be they ever so riotous ; nevertheless, 
the younger they are inured to light work, the 
more docile they will generally become. 

Do not expect that they can work constantly, on 
^(raw, nor expect to find them alert and spirited, 
while their buttocks are clodded with dun^, and 
their coats throughout are filled with dirt and ver- 
min. 

Divide them- into teams of four; let each team 
be fed by its respective carter. To give the man 
consequence with his fellow-servants, provide him 
with a curry comb lacquered on the back, and a 
brush bound with gilt leather. With these he will 
take a delight in combing off the dirt, and brushing 
out the dust and filth. The ox, too, after the sen- 
sation becomes familiar, partakes in the pleasure, 
and will momentarily forego his meal to receive the 
full enjoyment. His feeder perceives this, and 
brushes the part which gives the most pleasure. 
The ox shows his gratitude by wagging his tail ; the 
carter, in return, calls him by his name, and ingra- 
tiates himself with him. Thus, not only an intimacy 
but a mutual affection is formed, which at once 
gives attention to the keeper, and docility to the ox, 
and renders the labour of both pleasant. 

A good carter feeds his cattle early and late, and 
by little and little, being careful not to give more at 
once than they will eat immediately. 



MANURES. 35 

Their labour and their fodder ought to be so pro- 
portioned, that their health and their spirits are 
kept in full tone. Their coats ought to be sleek ; 
their hides loose and silky; the flank should fill the 
band; and the shoulder handle iiiellow. If they 
be overworlsed or underfed, disease and sluggish- 
ness must inevitably follow. A working ox ought 
always to be heef^ that, in case of accident, he noay 
grace, at least, the poor man^s table. 

If oxen be introduced intoahorse-teann country, 
not only attention, but some address is necessary. 



SECT. VI.— MANURES. 

lo* Manure for Clover. 

Some farmers make it a rule to spread about fifty 
bushels per acre of ashes over their clover in 
March, which they find, from long experience, to 
be a good manure for this grass. Wood-ashes will 
be useful on any soil; coal-ashes chiefly on stiff 
clays. On the stiff soils of some parts of Bucking- 
hamshire, ashes of all kinds are much esteemed, 
and have risen to a high price. ' 

16. Utility of Pigeon? 8 Dung as a Manure. 

Pigeon's dung will improve moist meadows very 
mach by extirpating bad kinds of grasses, bringing 
white clover in its stead, and augmenting the crop. 

17. For Compest Dunghills. 

Mix one hundred loads of earth with ten chal- 
drons of lime (a chaldron is thirty-six buishels) a- 
boat May; let them lie together until the hme is 
fallen, but not run to mortar ; then turn it over \ 



36 AGRICULTURE* 

* 

lay seventy loads of stable dung close to it. Wben 
the dtmgisin a high putrid heat, which will per- 
haps be in four months, lay a layer of this and a 
layer of earth, two thirds of manure to one of 
earth, and so go through the hill ; turn it over in 
the spring, and lay it on in March or April ; eight 
loads on an acre of grass. 

18. AnoiJier Composts 

. Mix lime and earth as before, and turn it ; then 
cpVer it with soil from privies, and coal-ashes about 
one third in quantity: lay it on the top for some 
months, in an oblong heap ; then turn, and mix all 
together,.letting it lie some months longer; and lay 
about eight loads on an acreof grass. 

1 9. Experiment in manuring Land. 

As a farmer, like a chemist, should lose none of 
his materials, but even make his washings, runnings, 
and residuums, turn out to his advantage, I have 
sent you some account of an experiment I have 
made in manuring of land, which I beg you will lay 
before the committee of agriculture, that they may 
communicate it to others. * 

I am possessed of a farm of near three hundred 
pounds a year, and have in my yard n^hat yon usu- 
ally see in most farmer's yards, two recesses or 
pools^ as reservoirs of dung and water. These re- 
servoirs of dung and water are continually running 
over, and of course part of the matter contained in 
them, is carried ofifby the necessary drains, into the 
highways, ditches, and rivers. 

As much of the essential quality of the dung is 
lost in this manner, (for part of the salts, whether 
fixed or volatik, will be washed into the pools, and 
when they run over, will be conveyed into the 
ditches, &c,) I thought it a part of good husbandry 



MANURES. 37 

to carry this saperabundant water or tnanure, (for 
80 we may justly call it,) on my land, which I did by 
meaos of a watering-cart, not unlike those with 
which the roads near London are watered in sum- 
mer-time, to allay the dust. 

That the experiment might be the more obvious 
and certain, I first tried it in the beginning of 
March, on a few acres, in the middle of a large 
field of wheat, where, in a little time, I found a con- 
siderable increase in growth, both of grass and 
grain ; and at hay-time and harvest, botn the one 
and the other were much better crops than what the 
same lands produced that were not so manured. 

As a man, or even a boy, with one of these carts, 
and one horse, may manure a great deal of land in 
a day, provided it be near the yard, I would recom- 
mend the practice to all farmers : for the expense 
is nothing but the value of the time of the. boy and 
horse, and the increase by what I have seen will be 
veiT great. 

. This manure may be also laid to great advantage 
on land, that is fresh sown with barley, oats, or any 
other grain ; but on grass it should be laid in the 
winter time, when the rains wilt wash the salts off 
the blades ; or in the spring, when the lands are laid 
uf for hay, as the cattle will not feed on the grass 
while the dung or salt adheres to the blade of it. 

Thisdung watershould likewise be carried on the 
land,, not at a time when it rains, but in dry weath- 
er, and at a time when the dung water in the pools 
is of a deep brown colour, and strongly impregnat- 
ed with salts. By this means the land may be ma- 
nured from time to time, and the pools kept almost 
empty for the reception of fresh matter almost 
every time it rains, and nothing will be lost. 

D 



38 AftRICCLTUR£. 

SO. Dr. Taylor^ 8 Easy Method^/ ascertaining the 
gualilies if Marfe^ Lime Stones^ or Quick Limt, 
for thepurposes of Agriculture. 

This was a communication by Dr. Taylor to the 
Manchester Agricultural Society : the general use 
of marie and lime, as manures, having prompted 
him to point out the importance of an easy and cer* 
tain method of determining the qualities o/different 
earths and stones, and ascertaining the quantity of 
calcareous earth in their composition : their value, 
in agriculture, compionly increasing in proportion 
to the greater quantity of it which they eontain. 
The process recommended is thus described. — The 
marie or stone being dried, and reduced to powder, 
put half an ounce of it into a half pint elass, pour- 
ing in clear water till the glass is half full ; then 
gradually add a small quantity of strong marine acid, 
commonly called spirit of salt, and stir the mixture 
well together. As soon as the efifervescence thus 
excited subsides, add a little more marine acid : 
thus continuing the operation while any of the ear- 
thy matter appears to dissolve : and till the liquor, 
after being well stirred and allowed to stand for half 
an hour, appears sensibly acid to the taste. When 
the mixture has subsided, if the liquor above it be 
colourless, that marie or limestone is the best which 
leaves the least in quantity of sediment or deposit 
at the bottom of the glass. This experiment is suf- 
ficient to determine which of the samples tried is 
most proper for the uses of agriculture ; as pure cal- 
careous earth or lime, which is the earth useful in 
agriculture, will be entirely dissolved, but clay or 
sand will not be sensibly acted on by the acid. 
Where great accuracy is required in determiningthe 
experiment, lay a soft spongy paper, of which the 
weight is exactly taken, in an earthen colander — ^for 
no metallic vessel, or implement for stirring, &c. 



CULTURE OF caops. 39 

must be used in any part of the process — and, pour- 
ing the saturated mixture of earth and acid on it, let 
all the liquor filtre through ; then pour a little clear 
water over the earthy matter remaining on the filter; 
and when that water has also filtered through, dry 
the paper with the earthy . matter on it which re- 
mains undissolved, when the deficiency found, on 
weighing them, from their original weight, will dis- 
cover what portion of the marie or lime has been 
dissolved in the acid. What quantity of earthy 
matter has been dissolved, may be made evident to 
the sight, by gradually adding, to the liquor which 
has been filtered through the paper, a clear solu- 
tion of pearl ashes, or ashes of burnt wood ; this 
will occasion a precipUation of the contained lime 
or calcareous earth to the bottom of the vessel, 
which precipitate must be dried and weighed. 

SECT. VII.— CULTURE, &c. OF CROPS. 

31. Vjusy method of discovering whether or not 
Seeds are sufficiently ripe. 

Seeds, when not sufficiently ripe, will swim, but 
when arrived at full maturity, they will be found 
i|Diformly to fall to the bottom ; a fact that is said 
to hold equally true of all seeds, from the cocoa nut 
to the orchis. 

22. To preserve Seeds^ when sown, from Vermin. 

Steep the grain or seed three or four hours, or a 
sufficient time for it to penetrate the skin, or husk. 
in a strong solution of liver of sulphur. 

23. ' Striped Grass^ recommendedfor Hay. 

The Indian striped or ribband grass, which is 
cultivated in gardens, would answer admirably foe 
hay. In rich grounds plants are frequently four feet 
high ; what a burden of hay would a field so crop- 
ped produce} Cattle are exceed\ng\^ iowJi o^\V^ 



40 AGRICULTURE. 

tbe'seeds ai'e easilj saved, so that a persoD might 
soon have enough for a rood, and from that save a- 
gain and again, for as manj acres as he might chuse. 
It is probable that the crop might be much too faree 
to be made on the field where it grew ; if so, it would 
be worth while to carry part into another field. 

*i4. ' When to cut Rye-Grass for Hay. 

Rye-grasB, if mown for hay, should be cut when 
in. blossom, and not greeA* The hay made from it 
does not h'ear or sweat so much, and is very good 
for horses, but not for sheep and cattle. Ifit is sdf- 
fered to stand too long before it is cut, the seeds rob 
the plants of their juices, and leave it no better 
than wheat or rye straw* 

25. To prevent Hay- stacks from taking fire. 

When there is any reason to fear that the hay, 
which is intended to be housed or stacked, is not 
sufficiently dry, it is only necessary to scatter a few 
handfuis of common salt (muriate of soda) between 
each layer. It would be very ill judged to regret 
this trifling expense, for the salt, by absorbing the 
humidity of the hay, not only prevents the ferment- 
ation and consequent inflammation of it, but it also 
adds a taste to this forage, which stimulates the ap- 
petites of cattle, assists their digestion, and preserves 
them from many diseases. 

Remark* — The cattle like a little salt, but it has 
little efiect in preventing inflammation. 

26. Method of preventing the Smut in Wheat. 

I have seen a great deal, read a great deal, heard 
a great deal, of the benefits arising from steeping 
seed wheat in brines and other preparations, to pre- 
vent its being smutty : some have answered, others 
have miscarried ; but I always observed that if the 
seed was well washed, it failed not. I took the hint, 
and washed well^ in a large tub, %oiiv^ «eed I knew 



CULTtRK OP CROPS. 41 

to be smutty. 1 washed it in simple water, stirring 
it violeotly with birchen brooms, and took care, 
from time to time, to skim off the light corn, impu- 
rities, &c. It answered well, and 1 bare continued 
the practice ever since. Let your practical read- 
era try it, and it will do the same. 

27. To prevent the Smut in Wheat. 

The means to prevent.smut are simple ; and no 
pther than immersing the seed in pure water, and 
repeatedly scouring it therein, just before it is sown 
or dibbled in. Whether well, spring, or river wa- 
ter housed, is indifibrent ; but repeated stirring and 
change of water is essential to remove the possible . 
particles of infection that may have imperceptibly 
adhered to the seed. Thus purified, the subse- 
quent crop will be perfect in itself, and seed suc- 
cessively so likewise, if there be no adjacent fields 
from whence this cont^^mination may be wafted. 
The addition of any alkaline or earthy salt, by in- 
creasing the specific gravity of the water, is of ad- 
vantage in floating offthe unsound grains, and after 
the seed is washed it should be dried immediately, 
by rubbing it with newly slacked lime. 

S8. Fertilising Steeps for Tumtps^ Wheats or Barley. 

Steep turnip seed twelve hours in train oil, which 
atrain through a fine sieve, and immediately tho- 
roughly mix the quantity of seed you would wish to 
aow on an acrewith three bushels of dry loamy earth, 
finely sifted, which drill (or sow) as soon as possi- 
ble ; and when the plants begin to appear, throw a 
small quantity of soot over them. 

39. Steep for Wheats Barley, or other Grain* 

Put a peck and a half of wood ashes, >and a peck 
•f uoslacked lime, into a tub that will hold forty gal- 
lons ; then add as much water as will slake the lime, 
ud render the mixture into the consistence of stiff 

P2 



4^ . AGItiqULTURE* 

mortar. Id this state it should remain ten or twelve 
hours ; thenadd as much water as will reduce the 
mortar to a pulp by thorough stirring. In this state 
fill the tub with water, and occasionally keep stir- 
ring for two or three days. After which, draw ofF 
the clear lye into an open vessel, and gradually put 
the grain into it: skin>off(he light grains ; and af*' 
ter the corn has been steeped three hours, spread it 
on a clean floor to dry, when it will be sufficiently 
prepared for drilling or sowing. The lye will re- 
tain its full virtue, and may be repeatedly used. 

Remark* — It has been doubted whether steeps are 
of any use, except so far as they facilitate the sepa- 
ration of the light grains, and wash off the seeds of 
the parasite plaiits, which are thought to occasipn 
3mut, &c. In the best cultivated parts of Scotland, 
seed wheat is steeped in stale urine, or in a brine 
made with common salt, which, by increasing the 
specific gravity of the water, floats the unsound 
-grains. The seed is well washed, and then dried, 
by mixing it with fresh slacked lime, and rubbing it 
briskly with a wooden shovel. The quick lime and 
rubbing is thought to. assist in cleansing the seed ; 
but, independent of that, the mere drying the seed 
quickly is convenient. 

30. To som Wheat to advantage witlhout layirig on 

Manure. 

It has been found expedient sometimes to> sow 
wheat without laying on any manure ; and, in the 
beginning of February, to collect twenty bushels of 
lime, unslacked, for every acre, and forty bushels of 
sand, and the ruBbjsh of a brick kiln ; then, about 
the end of the month, to slake the lime, which dou- 
bles die measure, and mix it well with the sand, and 
immediately afterwards to scatter it by way of top- 
dressing over the green wheat. - As rain geoerallj 
Fucceeds, it is soon washed down to the roots of the 



CULTURE OP CROPS. 43 

plants, and gives them a vigour aod strength which, 
to those who never made the experiment, is aston- 
ishing. The lime, sand, and rubbish, are particu- 
larly useful in breaking the tenacity of stiff clays. 
Id a clay soil, where coal was very cheap, the clay 
was slightly burned in the field, and spread over 
the surface, as the cheapest way of subduing the 
coarseness and stiffness of the soil. The refuse or 
rubbish from mines in the neighbourhood has been 
burned and applied with advantage on the same 
principle. 

^1, Approved Method of sowing Wheat on Narrow 

Ridges. 

The seedsman should walk up one side of the bed 
and dowQ the other side, always keeping his face, 
and the hand with which he sows, towards the bed 
he is sowing : his eye must be continually on the 
edge of the opposite interfurrow, and deliver his 
seed principally on the side of the bed next to it : 
as he returns, the sides will of course be reversed, 
and the beds become evenly seeded^ 

32. Great Utility of sowing BUck' Wheat. 

In light lands buck-wheat may be raised to great 
advantage, as a lucrative crop. When green it is a 
fine feed for milch kine, and when ploughed is a 6ne 
preparation for the landi It fattens pigs with great 
economy, and, passed through the mill, is, with car- 
nit, a capital feed for work horses. The seed is 
ezCftllent food for poultry, and when ground makes 
good bread. 

33. To keep Crows from Corn. 

Take a quart of train oil, as much turpentine and 
bruised gunpowder, boil them together, and, when 
hot, dip pieces of rags in the mixture, and fix them 
«D Biirk^ in the fi^ld. About four are sufficient for 
an acre of corn. 



44 AGRICOLTCJIE* 

34. Proper Soil for the Culture of Turnips. , 

Sandy 4oain8, in good heart, are most favourable 
to their growth, though thej will thrive well on 
strong loam», if not wet ; but on, clayey, thio, or 
wet soih, they are not worth cultivating ; for though 
a good crop may be raised on such ground, when 
well prepared and dunged, more damage is done 
by taking off the turnips in winter, in poaching the 
soil, than the value of the crop will repay. 

35. Instructions for raising Potatoes to advantage. 

The earth should be dug twelve inches deep, if 
the soil will allow it r after this, a hole should be 
opened about six inches deep and horse dung, or 
longlitter, Should be put therein, about three inches 
thick : this hole should not be more than twelve 
inches diameter. Upon this dung, orlitter, a pota- 
toe should be planted whole, upon which a little 
more dung should be shaken, and then the earth 
must be put thereon. In like manner the whole 
plot of ground must be planted, taking care that the 
potatoes be set at least sixteen inches apart* 
When the young shoots mak^ their appearance they 
sbould have fresh mould drawn round them with a 
boe, and if the tender shoots are covered, it will 
prevent the frost from injuring them *, they should 
again be earthed when the shoots make a second 
appearance, but not covered, as, in all probability, 
the season will be less severe. • 

A plentiful supply of mould should be given them, 
and the person who performs this business sbould 
never tread upon the plant, or the hillock that is 
raised round it, as the lighter the earth is, the more 
i^om the potatoe will have to expand. 

A gentleman obtained from a single root thus 
|lanted, very near forty pounds weight of large po- 
tatoes ; and, froiQ almost every other root qpon the 
sMwe plol of ground) from fifteen to twenty poondo 



PRESfiRVATION OF CORN AND VEGETABLES* 45 

weight ; and, x3xcept the soil be slony or gravelly, 
ten pounds, or half a peck, of potatoes, may al- 
most be obtained from each root, by pursuing the 
foregoiDg method. 

36« Preparation/or Carrots and other winged Seeds* 

Take two bushels of dry loamy earth, finely sift- 
ed ; to which add one bushel of bran, and a suffi- 
cient quantity of carrot seed, cleaned from stalks, 
and well rubbed between the hands ; all which 
thoroughly mix together, and drill (or sow.) The 
carrot seed will stick to the bran* which, with the 
earth, will be regularly discharged. 

SECT. VllI PRESERVATION OF CORN 

AND VEGETABLES. 

.^7. Ijmportant discovery relative to the Preservation 

of Com. 

To preserve rye, and secure it from insects and 
rat:!, nothing more is necessary than not to winnow 
it after it is thrashed, but merely separate it from 
the straw, and to stow it in the granaries mixed 
with the chaff. In this state it has been kept for 
more than three years, - without experiencing the 
smallest alteration, and even without the necessity 
of being turned to preserve it from humidity and 
fermentation. Rats and mice may be prevented 
from entering the barn, by putting some wild vine 
or hedge plants upon the heap ; the smell of the 
wood is so offensive to these animals, that they will 
not approach it. The e|:periment has not yet been 
made with wheat and other kinds of grain, but they 
may probably beproserved in the chaff with equal 
advantage: It must however be observed, that the 
husks and corns of rVe are different from most other 
grain. It hasbc^r! sown nearhouses, where many 
poultry were kept for the purpose of bringing ug a 



4B ACIRICULTORE* 

I 

/ 

crop of grass, because the poaltry do nottlestroy 
*ity as they would have done wheat, oats, or even 
barley in the same situation. 

38. To preserve Cam in Sacks* 

Provide a reed cane, or other hollow stick, made 
80 by gluing together two grooved sticks ; let it be 
about three feet nliie inches long ; and that it may 
be the easier thrust down to the bottom of the corn 
in the sack, its end be made to taper to a point, by 
a wooden plug that is fixed in, and stops the orifice. 
About one hundred and fifty small boles, of one 
eighth of an inch in diameter, are to be bored on 
all sides of the stick, from its bottom for about two 
feet ten inches of its length ; but no nearer to the 
surface of the corn, lest too great a proportion of 
<he^ air should escape there* By winding a pack- 
thread in a spiral form round the stick, the boring 
of the holes may be the betterregulated,8oas tohav(• 
them about half an inch distant towards the bottom, 
but gradually at wider distances, so as to be an inch 
asunder at the upper part ; by which means the 
lower part of the corn will have its due proportion 
of fresh air. To the top of the stick let there be 
tixed a leathern pipe ten inches long ; which pipe 
is to be difttended by two yards of spiral wire, 
coiled up within it. At the upper part of the pipe 
is fixed a taper wooden fasset, into which the nose 
of a common l^ousehold bellows is to be put, in or- 
der to ventilate the com. 

If corn, when first put into sacks, be thus aired, 
every other or third day, for ten or fifteen minutes, 
its damp sweats, which would hurt it, will, in a few 
weeks, be carried ofi*to such a degree, that it will 
afterwards keep sweet with very little airing, as 
has been found by experience. 

By the same means other kinds of seeds, as well 
as corn, may be kept sweet either in sacks or tmaii 
bins. 



) 



PRESBRVATION Of CORN AND VEGETABLES. 47 

39* To preserve Oats from ieing musl^. 

. Ricbard Farmore, Esq* of Tufimorey in Oxford- 
shire, has, ID bis stable, a contrivance lo-let oats 
down from aloft Qut of a vessel, like the hopper of 
a mill, whence they fall into a square pipe, let into 
a wall abou^ four inches diasoqal, which comes into 
a cupboard set into a wall, but with its end so near 
the bottom, that there shall never be above a de- 
sirable quantity in the cupboard at a time, which 
being taken away, another parcel succeeds ; by 
this motion the oats are kept constantly sweet, (the 
taking away one gallon moving the whole above) 
' which, when laid op otherwise in great quantities, 
freqnently grow musty. 

40« Easy Method of destroying Mites or Weevils 

in Granaries* 

A very sagacious fanner has succeeded in de- 
stroying weevils by a very easy process. In the 
mooth of June, when his granaries were all empty, 
he collected great quantities of the largest sized 
ants, and scattered them about the places infesteid 
with the fveevils. The ants immediately fell upon 
aiad devoured every one of them r nor have any 
weevils since that time been seen on his premises. 

Remark, — The large, or wood ant, feeds entirely 
OQ animal substances, of course it would not destroy 
the com. 

44 • To preserve Parsnips^ Carrots, and Beets all 

the Winter. 
A little before the frost sets in, draw your beets 
or parsDips^oot of the ground, and lay them in the 
hem, burying their roots in sand to the neck of the 
plant, and ranging them one by another in a sfaelv- 
IK position ; then another bed of sand, and another 
oT neets, and continue this order to the last. By 
pjmning this method, they will keep very fresh. — 
When they are wanted for use, draw them as they 
stand, not out of the middle or sides. 



48 AGRICULTURS* 

42. To preserve Turnips from Frost. 

The best way is to stack them up in straw id the 
following manner : — One load of any dry straw ia 
sufficient for an acre of fifty tons weight. Pull up 
the turnips, top and tail them^ then throw them io 
a sort of windrow, and let them lie a few days ta 
dry. • 

First, lay a layer of straw next the ground, and 
upon it a layer of turnips about half a yard thick ; 
then another layer of straw ; so go on alternately 
with a layer of straw and a layer of turnips ; every 
layer grows narrower, till it comes to a point at the 
top like a sugar loaf. The last layer must bfs straw, 
which serves to keep all dry. You must observe 
always when you have laid a layer of turnips, to 
stroke or lap over the ends of the under layer of 
straw, in order to keep them close, or from tumbling 
out. The heap should be as large as a hay-cock ; 
the tops may be given to sheep or cattle as they are 
cut off. 

43. Another. 

Turnips placed in layers, though not thick, have 
been found, after a' few weeks, to rot. In some 
places the following method is o^dopted : — Lay the 
turnips close together in ai single layer, on a grass 
field, near the farm yard, and scatter some straw 
and branches of trees over them : this will preserve 
them from sudden alterations of frost and thaw. — 
They keep as well as stored turnips can do. The 
hare grass is of no value in winter, and may rather 
p#rhajps receive some benefit from the shelter of the 
turnip. An immense quantity may thus be stored 
on a small extent of grass-ground* It is chiefly 
useful for small farmers, in soils unfit for the turnip, 
but who are forced to raise it for milk-cows, or to 
support in the winter, the sheep they feed in the sum- 
mer on the commons, and which they keep perhaps 
principally in the night on the fields they have 



AGRICULTURE, 49 

no other means of manuring. But it may be use- 
ful even on proper turnip soils, to save the latter 
part of the crop from the sudden frosts and sunshine 
in the spring, or in an open winter, which rot so 
great a portion of it ; perhaps a fourth or third part 
of what is then on the ground. 

SECT. TX.— PROTECTION OF GROWING 
CROPS FROM THE DEVASTATION OF 
VERMIN. 

44. Tht good effects ofElder^ in preserving Plants 

.from Insects and Flies. 

1. For preventing cabbage and cauliflower plants 
from being devoured and damaged by caterpillars. 

2. For preventing blights, and their effects on 
fruit tree^. 

3. For preserving corn from yellow flies and 
other insects. 

4. For securing turnips from the ravages of flies. 
The dwarf elder appears to exhale a much more 

foetid smell than the common elder, and therefore 
should be preferred. 

45* The use of Sulphur in destroying Insects on 
Plants^ and its benefit for vegetation* 

Tie up some flour of sulphur in a piece of mus- 
lin or fine linen, and with this the leaves of young 
shoots of plants should be dusted, or it may be 
thrown on them by the means of a common swans- 
down puff, or even by a dredging-box. 

Fresh assurances have repeatedly been received 
of the powerful influence of sulphur against the 
whole tribe of insects and worms which infest and 
prey on vegetables. Sulphur has also been found 
to promote the health of plants, on which it was 
spriakled ; and peach trees, in particular, were 
remarkably improved by it, and seemed to absorb 

E 



50 PROTECTION OF CROPS PROM VERITIN, 

it. It has likewise been observed, that the verdure, 
and Other healthful appearances, were perceptibly 
ncreased : or the/quantitj of new shoots and leaves 
formed subsequently to the operation, and having 
no sulphur on their surfaces, served as a ki^id of 
cornparative index, and pointed oat distinctly the 
accunr^ulation of health. 

46. Methods of stopping the ravages of the Caters 
> pillars from Shrubs, Plants, and Vegetables, 

Take a chaffipg-dish, with lighted charcoal, and 
place it under the branches of the tree, or bush, 
whereon are the caterpillars ; then throw a little 
brimstone on the coals. The vapour of the sul- 
phur, which is mortal to these insects, and the suf- 
focating fixed air arising from the charcoal, will not 
only destroy all that are on the tree, but will effec- 
tually prevent the shrubs from being, that season, 
infested with them. A pound of sulphur will clear 
as many trees as grow on several acres. 

Another method of driving these insects off fruit- 
trees, is to boil together a quantity of rue, worm- 
wood, and common tobacco (of each equal parts,) 
in common water. The liquor should be v^y 
strong. Sprinkle this on the leaves and young 
branches every morning and evening during the 
time the fruit is ripening. 

In the Economical Journal of France, the fol- 
lowing method of guarding cabbages from the de- 
predations of caterpillars is stated to be infallible, 
and may, perhaps, be equally serviceable against 
those which infest other vegetables. Sow with 
hemp all the borders of the ground wherein the 
cabbage is planted ; and, although the neighbogr- 
hood be infested with caterpillars, the space inclos- 
ed by the hemp will be perfectly free, and not one 
of these vermin will approach it. 



AOillCULTUIlE. 5\ 

47. To prevent the increase of Pismires in Grass- 

Lands newly laid down. 

Make a strong decoction of walnut-tree leaves, 
and after opening several of the pisihire^s sandy 
habitations, pour upon them a quantity of the li- 
quor, just sufficient to fill t\\e hollow of each heap : 
after the middle of it has been scooped, throw in 
the contents from the sides, and prejss down the 
whole mass with the foot, till it becomes level with 
the rest of the field. This, if not found effectual at 
first, must be repeated a second or a third time, 
when they infallibly will be destroyed. 

48. Liquor for destroying Caterpillars, AntSj and 

other Insects. 

Take a pound and three quarters of soap, the 
same quantity of flour of sulphur, two pounds of 
champignons, or puiT balls, and fifteen gallons of 
water. When the whole has been well mixed, by 
the aid of a gentle heat, sprinkle the insects with 
the hquor, and it will instantly kill them. 

49. To destroy Ants. 

Ants are destroyed by opening the nest, aj^id put- 
ting in quick lime, and throwing water on it. 

50. To prevent the f^ty tn Tnrmps. 

Sow good* and fresh seed in well manured and 
well prepared ground. 

51. To prevent the destruction of Field Turnips by 

Slugs. 

A few years since, a considerable farmer, near 
Bath, observing the turnips in one of his fields 
strongly attacked by something, discovered, by ac- 
cident, that the enemy was really a slug, and im- 
mediately prevented farther damage by well roll- 
ing the whole field, by night, which killed all the 
slugs. 



52 PROTECTION OF CROPS FROM VERMIN. 

N. B. This was the grand secret which was ad- 
vertised for two thousand subscribers, at one guinea 
each, by W. Vagg, /or destroying thefly in turnips, 
which it will not do! 

52. For preventing Flies from destroying the Seed- 

ling Leaves of Turnips^ fyc* 

Mix six ounces of flour of brimstone with three 
pounds of turnip seed, daily, for three days suc- 
cessively, in an earthen-glazed pot, and keep it 
«lose covered, stirring all together well at each ad- 
dition, that the seed /hay be the more tainted with 
the sulphur r this will sow an acre of ground, and 
let the weather come wet or dry, it will keep the 
fly off till the third or fourth seeding leaf is formed ; 
and by this time they will ^11 be somewhat bitter- 
ish, and consequently very much out of <langer of 
this little black flying insect, which, in summer 
time, may be seen in swarms, on the wing, near the 
ground, searching for, and settling on fresh bites, 
till they ruin thousands of acres. 

53. To prevent Mice from destroying early sown 

Peas. 

The tops of furze, or whins, chopped and thrown 
i!)to the drills, and thus covered up (by goading 
Ihem in their attempt to 8cratch)is an effectual pre- 
ventive. Sea sand, strewed pretty thick upon the 
surface, has the same effect. It gets into their ears 
and is .troublesome. 

54. Another. 

In the gardens in Devonshire, a simple trap is 
used to destroy mice. A common brick, or flat stone 
is set on one end, inclined at an angle of about forty- 
live degrees. Two strings, tied to a cracked stick, 
stuck in the ground, with loops at the ends of the 
string, are brought round to the middle of the un- 
derpart of the brick, and one loop being put into 



ANGLING. 53 

the other, a pea or bean, or any other bait, makes 
the string fast, so as to support the brick. When 
the animal removes the bait, the loops separate, 
and the brick, by falling, smothers the animal. 



SECT. X.~WEEDS. 

55. Usefulness of mowing weeds* 

In the month of June, weeds are in their most 
succulent state ; and in this state, especially after 
they have lain a few hours to wither, hungry cattle 
will eat greedily almost every species. There is 
scarcely a hedge border or a noolc, but what at this 
season is valuable ; and it certainly must be good 
management to embrace the transient opportunity; 
for, in a few weeks, they will bec^ome nuisances. 
{See also Cattle, Dairy ^ Vermin, Weather, ire*) 



' CHAPTER II. 

ANGLING.— FISHING. 



56. To preserve Fishing Rods, 

Oil your rods, in summef, with linseed oil, dry- 
ing them in the sun, and taking care the parts lie 
flat : thej should be often turned, to prevent them 
from warping. This will render them tough, and 
prevent their being worm-eaten ; in time they will 
acquire a beautiful brown colour. Should they 
get wet, which swells the wood, and makes it fast 
ID the sockets, turn the part round over the flame 
of a candle a short time, and it will be easily set at 
liberty. 

E2 



54 ANGLIKG* 

57 To make Quill. Floats for Fishing. 

Take any quantity of swan or goose quills you 
may "Vrant, cut off the barrel p^rt from that where 
the feathers grow, and with a thick piece of wire 
wrapped rouod the end wilh cotton wool, clear the 
inside of the quill from th^ film ; put in a small 
piece of pitch, about the size of a sweet pea, and, 
with the wire, force it to the end, ramming it close ; 
this will effectually keep out the water ; put a small 
piece of cotton wool upon the pitch,)sufficient, when 
forced close into the quill, to form a space of a 
quarter of an inch, anci, upon the cotton, add anoth- 
er piece of pitch of the same size as the first, which 
will secure the cotton, and make the float easily dis- 
cerned on the water ; take a piece of sallow hazel, 
or other soft wood, about the same size as the cir- 
cumferc^Cfe of the quill, and about two inches long ; 
fit it neatly about 3-4thB of an inch into the quill, and 
fasten it with a cement made of powdered bees- wax, 
rosifl and chalk, melted over the fire in a ladle ; 
dip the plug in when it is sufiiciently melted and in- 
corporated, and put into it immediately a piece of 
doubled brass wire, the loop end formed into a 
round eye, and the other twisted, which will pass 
into the plug like a screw, holding the wire fast with 
a pair of small pliers, and turning the float round ; 
the line passes through the eye of the wire ; the top 
of the float is made fast to the line bj a hoop made 
of the barrel part of the quill, and rather wider than 
the fio^t to admit the thickness of the line ; by 
means of this hoop the float may be shifted at plea- 
sure, according to the depth you are inclined to 
fish; the hoops may be dyed red by the following 
method : — Take some stale urine, and put to it as 
much Brazil wood in powder as will make it a deep 
red ; then take some fair water, and put a handful 
of salt into it, and a small quantity of argol, stirring 
them till they are dissolved 9 boil them over the fire 



AN6L1NG4 55 

I 

in a saucepan, and when cold, put in the quills, well 
scraped, and let them lie awhile in it ; then take 
them out, and put them into the urine made red with 
the Brazil lyood, and let them continue a fortnight ; 
when dry, rub them with a woollen cloth, and they 
will be transparent. The hoops must be cut with a 
sharp knife, or the quill will split* 

58. Improved Method of making Cork Floats f or ^ 

Fishing. 

Take a cork, firm and free from flaws, and with 
a small red-hot iron, bore a hole lengthways through 
the centre ; with a sharp knife cut it across the 
grain about two- thirds of the length, tapering to (he 
end where the hole is bored, and the remaining 
third rouiided with it, (which is the top of the float) 
io the shape of an egg, the lower end tapering more 
gradually, resembling in shape the small peg-tops 
children play with. 

59. Easy Method of dyeing Fishing Lines • 

Lines of silk or hemp may be coloured by a 
strong decoction of oak bark, which, it is believed, 
renders them more durable, and resists the water ; 
it gives them an excellent russet brown colour, and 
any shade of it may be obtained, hy the time they 
remain in the decoction, which should be cold. 

CO. To prevent Fishing Lines from rotting, 

Neverwind your lines on your reel wet ; at least, 
when you get home, wrnp tliem round the back of 
a chair, 'and let tbem be thoroughly dried, otherwise 
they will soon rot, and cannot be depended on ; 
with this care they will last a considerable time. 

61 . To prevent taking^ Cold while Angling. 

Avoid sitting upon the ground, though it may ap- 
pear dry. for the heat of the body will cause a mois- 
tore which soon cools, and may be seu«\V)\^ i^\\.« \^ 



56 ANGLING. 

the angler, through age or infirmity, is incapable of 
standing long, a piece of coarse woollen cloth, dott* 
bled two or three times, will be very useful to sit 
upon, especially in fishing for barbel, roach, and 
dace, where the angler is confined to one place. 

62. To improve the sporf of Angling, by attention to 

the Dress. 

m 

Some attention should be paid to the colour of 
an angler's dress ; it is natural to conclude, that 
green would be most eligible, as it would vary little 
from those objects with which fish are familiarised, 
such as trees growing near the sides of rivers, and 
herbage on the banks; yet, as this particular co- 
lour might be disagreeable to many, the angler 
should avoid all strong contrasts to those objects^ 
particularly scarlet, and very light colours. 

63. Rides for Fly Fishing. 

A fishing fly is a bait used in angling for various 
kinds offish. The fly is either natural or artificial. 
The chief of the natural flies are the ^'stooe fly,'' 
found under hollow stones at the sides of rivers, 
between April and July ; it is brown, with yellow 
streaks, and has large wings. The ^^ green drake," 
found among stones by riversides; it has a yellow 
body ribbed with green ; it is long and slender, with 
wings like a butterfly, and is common in the spring. 
The " oak fly," found on the body of an oak or ash, 
is of a brown colour, and common during the sum- 
mer months. The '' palmer fly or worm," found 
on the leaves of plants, when it assumes the flj 
state from that of the caterpillar ; it is much used in 
trout fishing. The '^ ant fly," found on ant hills from 
June to September. The *' Mny fly" is to be found 
playing at the river side, especially before rain. 
And the '^ bifick fly," which is to he found upon eve- 
ry hawthorn after the buds are otT. There are two 
ways to fish with natural flies, either on the surface 



ANGLING. 57 

of the water, or a little uoderneath it. In angling 
for roach, dace, &c. the fly should be allowed to 
glide down the stream to the fish, but in very still 
water the bait may be drawn by the fish, which will 
make him eagerly pursue it. 

There are many sorts of artificial flies to be had 
at the shops : they are made in imitation of natural 
flies, and the rules for using them are as follow : 
Keep as far from the water^s edge as may be, and 
fish down the stream with the sun at your back ; the 
line must not touch the water. In clear rivers the 
angler must use small flies with slender wings, but 
ID muddy waters a larger fly may be used. After 
rain, when the waters are muddy, an orange-col* 
cured Ay may be used with advantage ; in a clear 
day, the fly must be light coloured, and in dark 
water the fly must be dark. The line should, in 
genera], be twice as long as the rod ; but, after all, 
much will depend upon a quick eye and active band. 
Flies made for catching salmon must have their 
wings standing one behind the other. This fish is 
said to be attracted by the gaudiest colours that can 
be obtained ; the wings and tail should be long and 
spreading* 

64. To intoxicate and take Fishy 

' Make a paste in the following manner : takeco- 
culus indicus, cummin seeds, fenugreek seeds, and 
coriander&eed9,equal parts; reduce them to powder, 
and make them into a paste, with ricorflour and wa- 
ter;, reduce this paste intosmall balisof the size of 
peas, and throw it into such ponds or rivers where 
there are fish, which, after eating (hereof, wiU rise 
to the surface of the water almost motionlesR, and 
will allow themselves to be taken out by the hand. 



58 USEFUL ARTS. ' 

CHAPTER III. 

USEFUL ARTS. 



65. Beneficial purpose to which the Juict, of Aloes 

may he applied. ^ 

Jn the East-Indies aloes are employed as a Tar- 
nish, to preserve wood from worms and other 
insects ; and skins, and even living animals ^re an- 
ointed with it for the same reason. The bavock 
committed by the white ants in India first suggested 
the trial of aloe juice, to protect wood from them ; 
for which purpose the juice is either used as ex- 
tracted, or in solution, by some solvent. 

^^. Efficacy of the Juice of Aloes on Ships'^ Botoms. 

Aloes have been found effectual in preserving 
ships from the ravages of the worm and the adhesion 
of barnacles. The ship's bottom, for this purpose, 
is smeared with a composition of hepatic aloes, tur- 
pentine, tallow, and w.hite lead. In proof of the ef- 
ficacy of this method, two planks of equal thickness, 
and cut from the same tree, were placed under wa- 
ter, one in its natural state, and the other smeared 
with the composition. On taking them op, after 
being immersed eight months, the latter was found 
to be perfect as at first, while the former was en- 
tirely penetrated with insects, and in a state qC ab- 
solute rottenness. 

e?. To Bronze Plaster Figures. 

Lay the figure over with isinglasi size till it holds 
out, or without any part of its surface becoming dry 
or spotted ; then with a brush, such as is termed by 
painters i^ sash tool, go over the whole, observing 
carefully to remove any of the size (while it is yet 
soft^Aat mBy lodge on the delicate or sharp places, 



VSEFUL ARTS. 59 

and set it aside to dry : when it has become so, take 
a little very thin oil gold-size, and, with as much of 
it as just damps the brush, go over the figure, al- 
lowing no more of this size to remain than what 
causes it to shine. Set it apart in a dry place, free 
from smoke, and, after it has remained there forty- 
eight hours, the figure is prepared for bronzing. 

The bronze, which is almost an impalpable pow- 
der, (and may be had at the colour shops, of all me- 
tallic colours) should be dabbed on with a little cot- 
ton wool. After having touched over the whole fi- 
gure, let it stand another day ; then, with a soft dry 
brush, rub ojQTall the loose powder, and the figure 
will resemble the metal it is intended to represent, 
and possess the quality of resisting the weather. 

68* To blue Swords, Mourning Buckles, ire* 

Take a piece of grindstone and whetstone, and 
rob hard on the work, to take off the black scurf 
from it ; then heat it in the fire, and a& it grows hot 
the colour changes by degrees, coming first to a light 
then to a dark gold colour, and lastly to a blue. — 
Indigo and salad oil, ground together, is also used, 
1^ nibbing the mixture on the work with a woollen 
cloth, while it is heating, leaving it to cool of itself. 

69* Composition to take off Casts of Medals. 

Melt eight ounces of sulphur ever a gentle fire, 
and mix it with a small qqantity of fine vermillion ; 
stir it well together, and it will dissolve like oil ; 
then cast into the mould, which is first to be rub-, 
bed over with oil. When cool, the figure may be 
taken, and touched ov^er with aquafortis, and it w^ll 
look like fine coral. 

70. Method of Sweeping Chimnies without employing 
Children, and the danger attending the old method 
pointed out. 

Procure a rope for the purpose, twice ttveXexv^Jcv 



60 USEFUL ARTS. 

of the height of the chimney : to the middle of it tie 
a bush (broom, furze, or any other,) of sufficient 
size to fill the chimney, (if there be any windings io 
it, tie a ballet or round stone to the end of the rope,) 
and introduce the wood end of the bush after the 
rope has descended into the room ; then let a per- 
son pull it down. The bush, by the elasticity of 
its twigs, brushes the sides of the chimney as it de- 
scends, and carries the soot with it. If necessary, 
the person at top, who has hold of the other end of 
the rope, draws the bush up again ; but, in this case, 
the person below must turn the bush, to send the 
wood end foremost, before he calls to the person at 
top to pull it up. 

Many people who are silent to the calls of human- 
ity, are yet attentive to the voice of interest : chim- 
nies cleansed in this way never need a tenth part 
of the repairs required when they are swept by chil- 
dren, who, being obliged to work themselves up by 
pressing with their feet and knees on one side, and 
the back on the other, often force- out the bricks 
which divide the chimnies. This is one of the cau- 
ses why, in many houses, a fire in one apartment al- 
ways fills the adjoining one with smoke, and some- 
times even the adjoining house. Nay, some hous- 
es have even been burnt by these means ; for, a foul 
chimney, taking fire, has been frequently known to 
communicate, by these apertures, to empty apart- 
ments filled with timber, where of course it was not 
thought necessary to make any examination, after 
extinguishing the fire in the chimney where it began. 

71. Ktno method of clearing Feathers from their 

Animal Ot?« 

Take, for every gallon of clear water, a pound of 
quick lime ; mix them well together ; and, when the 
undissolved lime is precipitated in fine powder, pour 
off the clear lime-water for use at the time it is t^ant- 



GILDING. 61 

ed. Put the feathers to be cleaned in another.tub, 
and add to thpm a sufficient quantity of the clear 
lime-water to cover the feathers about three inches, 
when well immersed and stirred therein. The fea- 
thers, when thoroughly moistened, will sink down, 
and should remain in the lime-water three or four 
days ; after which, the foul liquor should be sepa- 
rated from the feathers, by laying them on a sieve. 
The feathers should be afterwards well washed in 
clean water, and dried on nets, the meshes being 
about the same fineness as those of csibbage nets. 
The feathers must, from time to time, be shaken on 
the nets ; and, as they dry, they will fall through 
the meshes, and are to be collected for use. The 
admission of air will be serviceable in the drying, 
and the whole process may be completed in about 
three weeks. The feathers, after being thus pre- 
pared, will want nothing more than beating for use, 
either for beds, bolsters, pillows, or cushions. 

72. To preserver the natural Colour in Petals oj 

dried Flowers* 

Nothing more is necessary than to immerse the 
petals for some minutes in alcohol. The colours 
will fade at first ; but in a short time they will re- 
same their natural tint, and remain permanepth- 
fixed. 

73» Art of gilding Iron or Steel. 

Dissolve in aqua regia, with the assistance of a 
little heat, as much gold .as will fully saturate it : 
then, adding cream of tartar, form it into a paste. — 
Any bright piece of steel or iron, such as the blade 
of a kni^, or razor, &c. being first wetted with wa- 
. ter,or saliva, and then rubbed with this paste, will 
be instantly gilded in a beautiful manner; after 
which it is to be washed with cold water. If a thick- 
er coat of gold be desired, gold leaf may be laid on, 
jind burnished hard, when it will adhere to the fir&t 

F 



62 , USEFUL AlRTS. 

gilding ; and, if the natare oflhe thing gilded wiH 
admit of heat, by warming it, but npt do as to be- 
come red hot, and then burnishing it, any thickoess 
of gilding may be easily added* 

74. Method of Dry Gilding. 

Dry gilding, as it is called by some workmen, is 
a light .method of gilding, by steeping linen ragsioa 
solution of gold, then burning them ; and with a 
piece of cloth dipped in salt water, rubbing the ash^ 
es over silver intended to be gilt. This method re- 
quires neither much labour, nor much gold, and may 
be employed with advantage for carved work aod 
ornaments. It is not, liowever, durable. 

75. Composition for gilding Brass or Silver. 

Take two ounces of gum-lac, two ounces of ka- 
rabe, or yellow amber, forty grains of dragon's 
blood in tears, half a dram* of saffron, and forty 
ounces of good spirits of wine : infuse and digest 
the whole in the usual manner, and afterwards strain 
it through a linen cloth : when the varnish is us^d, 
the piece of silver or brass mqst be heated before 
it is applied : by this means it will assume a gold 
colour, which is cleaned, when soiled, with a littte 
warm water. 

76. To make Shell Gold. 

Take the paring of leaf gold, or even the leaves 
themselves, and reduce them into an impalpable 
powder, by grinding them on a marble with honey; 
put this into shells where it will stick and dry ; 
when you want to use it, dilute it with gum water. 

N. b. Shell silver is made the same way. 

77. To clean Gold and restore its Lustre. 

Dissolve a little sal-ammoniac in urine ; boil your 
soiled gold therein, and it will become clean and 
brilliant. 



USEFUL ARTS. 63 

78» To Silver Glass Globes. 

Take two ounces of quicksilver, one ounce of 
bismuth, of tin and lead half an ounce of each : iirst 
pot the tin and lead in fusion^ then put in the bis- 
muth, and when you perceive all in fusion, let it 
stand till almost cold, and then pour in the quick- 
silver. I 

After this take the glass globe, which must be 
verj clean, and the inside free from dust, make a 
paper funufj, which put in the hole of the globe, 
as near the glass as you can, so that the amalgam, 
when you pour it in, may hot splash and spot the 
glass : pour.it in softly, and move it about that the 
amalgam may touch every where; if you find it 
begin to be curdly, hold it over a gentle heat, and 
it will flow again ; the cleaner and finer your globe 
is, the looking-glass will be the better. 

T9. To cut Glass. 

Take a red-hot shank of a tobacco-pipe, lay it on 
the edge of your glass, which will then begin to 
crack, then draw the shank end a little gently be- 
fore, and it will follow any way you draw your 
hand. 

80« Substitute for Hemp and Flax. 

As hemp and flax (lint) is now very high-priced, 
if the public would turn their attention to the Urti- 
$a Diocia (common nettle,) an excellent hemp 
might be obtained from it, by cutting it just before 
tiie seed is ripe, and steeping it in water, as they 
' do hemp or flax, and manufacturing it the same 
way ; the root of the plant is esteemed to be diure- 
tic, and the roots, boiled with alum, will die yarn 
a yellow colour. It is hkewise used by making a 
•tjong decoction of the young plan^ and salt put to 
it, and bottled up, which wiH>>^agylate milk, and 
make it very agreeable ; hjj^^^ means that plaut^ 



64 PROCESS RELATING TO IRON. 

which is an obnoxious weed, might be turned llj^ 
good accouut. 

USEFUL PROCESS RELATIVE TO IRON. 

81. To braze or solder pieces of Iron. 

This is done by means of thin plates of brass, 
melted between the pieces that are to be joined. 
If the work be verj fine, as when two leaves of a 
broken saw are to be brazed together, cover it with, 
pulverized borax, melted with water ; that it may 
incorporate with the brass powder which is added 
to it : the piece must be (hen exposed to tht! fire 
without touching the toals, and heated till the brass 
is seen to run. 

82. Swedish method for preserving from Rust Iron 

Work exposed to Air. 

They take such a quantity of pitch and tar as they 
think they have occasion for, and mix up with it 
such a quantity of the best sort of soot as not to 
make it too thick for use : with this composition they 
paint or besmear all the parts of the iron work, for 
which purpose they make ui$e of short hard brushes, 
because they must press pretty strongly upon the 
iron in order to give it a sufficient quantity, and they 
always choose to perform this operation in the 
spring time of the year, because the moderate heat 
of the season hardens the pitch so much that it is 
never nnelted by the succeeding beats of the sum- 
mer, but, on the contrary, acquires such a gloss as 
to look like varnish. This has been found, by ex- 
perience, to preserve iron from rust much bettef 
than any sort of paint, and is as cheap as any that 
can be made use of. ^ 

83. ComposxV^n that will effectually prevent I ron^ 

Steel, ^c, from rusting. 

This method consufi^ mixing, with fat oil var- 



VSEI'UL ARTS. 65 

hish, foor fifths of well rectified spirits of turpentine. 
The varnisli is to be applied by means ofa sponge ; 
and articles varnished in this nnanner will retain their 
metallic brilliahcy, and never contract any spots of 
rast. It may be applied to cop^r, and to the 
preservation of philosophical instruments ; which, 
by being brought into contact with water, are lia- 
ble to lose their splendour, and become tarnished. 

84* To prevent Sled or Iron from rust. 

Take one pound of hog's lard free from salt, one 
ounce of camphire, two drams of black lead pow* 
der, and two drams of dragon's blood infine pow- 
der ; melt the same on a slow fire until it is dissolv- 
ed, and let it cool for use. 

85. To prevent polished Hardware- and Cutlery 

from taking Rust. 
Case-knives, snutTers, watch-chains, and other 
small articles made of steel, may be preserved from 
rust, by being carefully wiped after use, and then 
wrapped in coarse brown paper, the virtue of which 
is such, that all hardware goods from Sheffield, Bir- 
mingham, dz:c. are always wrapped in the same. 

86* To clear Ir&nfrom rust. 

Pound some glass to fine powder, and having nail- 
.ed some strong linen or woollen cloth upon a board, 
lay upon it a strong coat of gum water, and sift 
ttefeon some of your powdered glass, and let it 
dry ; repeat this operation three times, and when 
the last covering of powdered glass is dry, you may 
eaailv rub off the rust from iron utensils, with the 
cloth thus prepared. 

87. To soften Ivory and Bones. 

Take sage, boil it in strong vinegar, strain the 
decoction through a piece of close cloth ; and when 
you have a mind to soften bones or ivory, steep 

F2 



66 USEFUL ARTS. i 

them in this liquor, and the longev they remain io it 
the softer they will grow, 

88. Useful Hints to Lamplighters. 

As many acDulents happen in the winter time by 
the sliding of ladders, the same would never occur, 
if the following simple method was generally adopt- 
ed. ^^ If a strong nail was put in the top of the lad* 
der, in a horizontal position, accidents could nev- 
er happen, as when the ladder slides, thenail 
would catch the lamp iron*'' 

89. Improved method of taking off Impressiom of 

Leaves^ Plants^ k.c* 

Take half a sheet of fine wove paper, ajid oil it 
well with sweet oil ; after it has stood a minute or 
two, to let it soak through, rub off the superfluous 
oil with a piece of paper, and let it hang in the air 
to dry ; after the oil is pretty well dried in, take a 
lighted candle or lamp, and move the paper slowly 
over it in a horizontal direction, so as to touch 
the flame, till it is perfectly black. When you wish 
to take off impressions of plants, lay your -plant 
carefully on the oiled paper, and lay a piece of clean 
paper over it, and rob it with your finger, equally 
in all parts for about half a minute ; then take up 
your plant, and be careful not to disturb the order 
of the leaves, and place it on the book or paper, on 
which you wi^h to have the impression ; then cov- 
er it with a piece of blotting paper, and rub it with 
your finger for a short time, and you will have an 
impression superior to the finest engraving. The 
same piece of black paper will serve to take off a 
great number of impressions ; so that when you have 
once gone through the process of blacking it, you 
may make an impression in a very short time. 

The principal excellence of this method is, that 
the paper receives the impression of the most mi- 
nute veins and hairs ; so that you may take the ge- 



USEFUL ARTS. 67 

neral character of most flowers, much superior to 
any engraving* * The impressions may afterwards 
be coloured according to nature. 

90. To obtain the true Shape and Fibres of a Leaf. 

Rub the back of it gently with any hard sub- 
stance, so as to bruise the fibres ; then apply a 
small quantity of linseed oil to their edges ; after 
which, press the leaf on white paper, and, upon re- 
moving it, a perfectly correct representation of 
every ramification will appear, and ttie whole may 
be coloured from the original. ' 

91. Jlnoiher way. 

This may be called printing of a leaf, and is ef- 
fected by carefully touching the fibres with ooe of 
those balls, lightly covered with printer's ink, and 
impressing it on wet paper. This is done to most 
advantage by a round stick, covered with woollen 
cloths, rolled backwards and forwards over the pa- 
per and leaf. 

93. To whiten Linseed Oil. 

Take any quantity of linseed oil, and to every 
gallon add two ounces of litharge ; shake it up 
every day for fourteen days, then let it settle a day 
or two ; pour off the clear into shallow pans, the 
same as dripping pans, first putting half a pint of 
spirits of turpentine to each gallon. Place it in 
Ibe son, and in three days it will be white as nut 
oil. This oil, before it is bleached, and without 
the turpentine, is far superior to the best boiled 
oil, there being no waste or offensive smell. 

93. Sophistication of Oil of Lavender and all 

Essential Oils. 

These valuable oils are frequently adulterated 
by a mixture of oil of turpentine, which may be 
known by dipping a little paper, or rag, in the oil 



68 USEFUL ARTS« 

to be .tried, and holding it to the fire, the fine 
scented oil will fast evaporate, and leave the smeU 
of the turpentine distinguishable, if any has been 
mixed therewith. 

94. Simple way of determining the exact Time of 
Jfoon^ and to obtain a Meridian Line^ on a smull 
Scale. 

Near the top of a room, facing the south, fix a 
plate of metal, with a circular hole in it, for the 
sun to shine through, from eight or nine o'clock id 
the morning until three or four in the afternoon ; 
then, bj means of a line and a plummet, determine 
the point upon the floor, which is directly under the 
centre of the hole, and fr6m that point, as a cen- 
tre, draw several concentric circles. Having made 
choice of some clear day near the summer solstice^ 
make the room nearly dark, and about three or four 
hours before and after noon, mark the points where 
(he northern, as also the southern limb of the sun's 
image cross those semicircles, and there will be 
several curves included between these points, 
through the middleof whicharightline beingdpawn 
from the centre ofthie semicircles, is a meridian line. 
After the line has been drawn in this manner, it 
must be examined by succeeding observations, and 
corrected, if necessary, by which means a line may 
be drawn exceedingly near the true meridian. 

Practical Observations 07i the above. 

1. The metal plate, which may be about one- 
fifth of an inch thick, must be placed parallel to the 
axis of the world, that the sun's rays may pass per- 
pendicularly through it when he is in the equator. 

2. The aperture need not be more than one-fiAh 
of an inch in diameter, if it be couuters^unk on both 
sides, to admit the sun's rays to flow through it at 
the distance of three or four hoars before, and after 
noon. 



i' 



USEFUL ARTS* 69 

3. If the surface of the floor, od which the obser- 
vations are to be taken for finding the meridian, be 
not sufficiently even, the floor may be covered with 
new boards, taking the greatest care that they are 
laid down perfectly horizontal from east to west. 

After the line has been correctly drawn, and the 
north and south ends of it marked upon the walls of 
the room, the boards may be taken away, and oth- 
ers laid down to draw the lines upon. 

A meridian line, upon a small scale, but sufficient- 
ly correct for regulating clocks and watches, may 
be had by the following method : 

Let a stone, with an even surface, about three 
feet long and two broad, be fixed horizontally upon 
a brick or stone pillar, at a convenient height for 
observation, with one of its ends facing the south. 
Near the middle of this end of .thp stone fix a gno- 
mon in a direction perpendicular to the horizon. 
This enomon, which should be made of a strong 
bar of metal, must have a small aperture through it, 
for the sun's rays to flow through early in the morn- 
ing and late in the evening* From that point, as a 
centre, which is directly under this aperture, draw 
several concentric semicircles, and fix the meridian 
line according to the preceding directions. The 
gnomon should have several other holes made 
through it in a line perpendicular to the horizon^ that 
the sun's rays at noon, flowing through some of 
them, may fall near the north end of the stone at all 
seasons of the year ; for, if only one hole be used, 
the sun's image will fall near the centre of the gno* 
mon in the summer, and in the winter it will be 
thrown far beyond the north end of the stone. 
95. German Method of making Elm and Maple 
Wood resemble Mahogany* 
• Having very smoothly planed whatever boards 
of the elm or maple tree are intended to be used fgr 
the purpose of appearing like mahogany^ wa«K tVvetcv 



70 CSEFJL ARTS. 

well with a little aquafortis dilated in common wa- 
ter. Then take a few drams of dragon's blood, ac- 
cording to the qoantitj which may he wanted in the 
whole, with half as much alkanet Foot, and a quar- 
ter of as much aloes, and digest these ingredients 
in four ounces of proof spirit ^to everj dram of the 
dragon's blood. As soon as the boards are dry, 
varnish them over with this tincture, by means of a 
sponge or soft painter's brush ; and they will, it is 
said, ever after so wear tb<^ appearance of mahoga- 
ny as to deceive the eye of any indifferent observer. 
96. Substitute for Mahogany* 

The difficulty of procuring mahogany and other 
precious woods, and the consequent Exorbitant 
prices demanded for the ordinary articles of family 
convenience, has occasioned the art of the chemist 
to be applied to a subject peculiarly calculated to 
promote domestic embellishment at a trifling ex- 
pense. It has be^n contrived to render any spe- 
cies of wood of a close grain, so nearly to resemble 
mahogany in the texture, density, and polish, that 
the most accurate judges are incapable of distin- 
gui:;hing between this happy imitation, and th.e 
native produce. The first operation, as now prac- 
tised in France, is to plane the surface, so as to ren- 
der it perfectly smooth ; the wood is then to be rub- 
bed with diluted nitrous acid, which prepares it for 
the materials subsequently to be applied. After- 
wards, one ounce and a half of dragon's blood, dis- 
solved in a pint of spirits of wine, and one third of 
that quantity of carbonate of soda, are to be mixed 
together and filtered ; and the liquid, in this thin 
state, is to be rubbed, or rather laid upon the wood, 
with a soft brush. This process is repeated with 
very little alteration, and in a short interval after- 
wards, the wood possesses the external appearance 
of mahogany. When this application has been 
properly made, the surface will resemble an artifi- 



USSFUL ARTS. 72 

cial mirror; butiftbe polish become less brilliant, 
by rubbing it with a little cold drawn linseed oil, 
the wood will be restored to its former brilliancy. 

97. To clarify Quills. 

Scrape off the outer film, and cut the ends off; 
then put the barrels into boiling water, wherein is 
a small quantity of alum and salt ; let them remain 
a quarter of an hour, and then dry them in a hot 
pan of sand or an oven. 

98. To harden Quills, 

f n order to harden a quill that is soft, thrust the 
barrel into hot ashes, stirring till it is soft; and 
(ben taking it out, press it almost flat upon your 
knee with the back of a pen-knife, and afterwards* 
reduce it to a roundness with your fingers. Another 
method to harden quills is by setting water and alum 
ever the fire, and while it is boiling, put in a hand- 
fill of quills, the barrels only, for a minute, and then 
lay them by. 

99. Dutch method of preparing Goose Quills for 

Writing. 

The process consists in immersing the quill, when 
plucked from the wing of the bird, into water al-> 
most boiling ; to leave it there till it becomes suffi- 
ciently soft to compress it, turning it on its axis with 
tte back of the blade of the knife. This kind oC^ 
friction, as well as the immersions in water, being 
contmued till the barrel of the quill be transparent, 
and the membrane, as well as the greasy kind of 
coTering, be entirely removed, it is immersed a last 
time to render it perfectly cylindrical, which is per- 
formed with the index finger and the thumb ; it is 
then ^ried in a gentle temperature. 

100. Substitute for Currier"^ s OiL 

A cheap substitute for the oil used by curriers in 



72 USEFUL ARTS. 

V 

the preparation of leather, is madeby boiling whale- 
oil for a few minutes, at a temperature of twenty- 
five degrees Reaumer, with nitric acid, in the pro- 
portion of half an ounce of the acid to a pound of 
oil. 

101. To repair Roads near to Coal Mines* 

The ro^ds to and from coal mines are usually in 
bad condition from the heavy loads passing in carts 
over them. The late Duke of Bridgewater,' to re* 
pair them, adopted, with great success, the follow- 
ing plan, at Worsley, in Lancashire. The stonei^ 
clay, and rubbish, first raised from the shaft, were 
laid in a large heap above ground ; then, such in- 
ferior coal, pyrites, or shale, as was unfit for sale, 
and usually thrown away, was laid in another near 
it ; a third heap was raised from a mixture made by 
laying repeated layers from the above two heaps, 
stratum super stratum, and this heap, set on fire in 
su^h a direction that the wind would assist the fire 
to penetrate it throughout. The mass, wh6n burnt, 
formed a compound of half vitrified substances, and 
abundantly supplied good materials for his drag- 
paths along the canal, and enabled him to sell the 
surplus advantageously for the repair of the turn- 
pike roads in that neighbourhood. 

102. Easy method of making a saponaceous Liquid^ 
which may he us^ ij^stefid of Solutions of Soap 
for washing. 

Take the ashes produced from, the combustion of 
wood which has not been floated, and make a ley of 
them, according to the usual manner, mixing with 
the ashes a handful or two of quick lime, well poun3- 
ed or recently slacked. Let the ley stand till \i is 
grown clear by the settling or swimming of the for- 
eign substances contained therein ; then pour it into 
another vessel, and keep it for use. When it is 
proposed to make use of this ley, take any qi^antity 



USEFUL ART$. 73 

of oil, and pour upon it thirty or forty times as much 
us of the ley. Immediately a liquor, white as milk, 
will be formed, which, by being well shaken, or 
stirred, lathers and froths like a good solution of 
soap. This liquor is to be poured into a washing 
tub, or other vessel, and to be diluted with a great- 
er or less quantity of water ; after whichy the linen, 
meant to be washed, is to be steeped therein, to be 
rubbed and wrung in the usual way. 

Observations on the foregoing Receipt* 
j^(-]. It is better that the ley should not be made 
until the time when it is to be used ; if it is left to 
stand in open vessels, its power is weakened, and its 
nature changed. 

2. Fresh wood-ashes are preferable to old ones, 
particularly if the latter have been exposed to the 
air ; in that case they have no longer their usual 
power ; and in order to make them serve the j^tti;* 
pose, mix with them a greater proportion of ^ffiik 
lime. 

3. Those ashes are preferable which are pro- 
duced from hard wood : those which are left after 
the burning of floated wood, cannot be made use of 
with equal success. 

4. Fat oils, of a thick consistence, are most pro- 
per for the purpose here spoken of ; fin^ thin oils 
are by no means fit for it. ? ^ 

5. If stinking oil be made use of it is apt to give a 
bad smell to the linen : this may be removed by 
passing the linen carefully through a strong pure 
ley ; but in general, this smell goes off as the linen 
becomes dry. 

6. When the mixture oftbesil with the ley is of 
a yellow colour, it must be dilated with water. 

7. When the oil rises in the ley and swims upon 
the surface of it in the form of small drops, it shews 
that the oil is not fit for the purpose, not being thick 
enough ; or else that the ley ia too weak, or not 
sufficiently caustic. 

G 



74 USEFUL ART6. 

8, To prevent the quick lime from losing its 
power, and to hav^ always some in use when want* 
cd, it may be broken into small pieces, and kept 
in bottles well dried and well corked, or in bar- 
rels. 

103. Method of extracting Starch from Horse 

Chesnuts, 

First take off the outward green prickly husks, 
and then, either by hand, with a knife, or other tool, 
or else with a mill adapted for that purpose, very 
carefully pare off the brown rind, being particii|f| 
not to leave the smallest speck, and to entirely era- 
dicate the sprout or growth. Next take the nuts, 
and rasp, grate, or grind them fine into water, eith- 
er by hand, or by a mill adapted for that purpose. 

The pulp, which is thereby formed in this water, 
must be washed as clean as possible through a 
coa/se horse-hair sieve, then again through a Boer 
sm^., and again through a still finer, constantly ad- 
di^ clean water to prevent any starch adhering to 
the pulp. The last process is to put it with a large 
quantity of water (about four gallons to a pound of 
starch) through a fine gauze, muslin, or lawn, so as 
entirety to clear it of all bran or other impurities : 
as SOOT) as it settles, pour offthe water ; then mix it 
up with clean water, repeating this operation till it 
no longer miparts any green, yellow, or other colour 
to the water ; then drain it otftill nearly dry, and set 
it to bake, either in the usual mode of baking starch, 
or else spread out before a brisk fire, being very at- 
tentive to stir it ftequently to prevent its horning, 
that is to say, turning to a paste or jcHy, which, oa 
being dried, turns bjlmJike horn. The whole pro- 
cess should be condilcted as quickly as possible. 

1 04. To dissolve Wax in water. 

To every pound of white wax take twenty-four 
ounces of pot-ash dissolved in a gallon of warm wa- 
tt^r ; that is caustic ley of pot-ash, made with quick 



USEFUL ARTS, 75 

lime. In this boil the wax, cut in small pieces, for 
half an hour ; at the end of this tinne take it from 
the fire, and suffer it to cooL The wax floats on 
the surface in the form of white soap ; triturated 
with water it yields what is commonly called milk 
of wax, and may be applied to furniture, pictures, 
&c. An hour after the application, the coated 
parts are to be rubbed with a piece of woollen 
cloth, which will give a great brilliancy to paint- 






, and a fine polish to furniture. 

To make Wafers, 



Take very fine flour, mix it with the glair, (or 
whites) of eggs, isinglass, and a little yeast ; mingle 
the materials, beat them well together, spread the 
batter, being jnade thin with gum water, on even 
tin plates, and dry them in a stove ; then cut them 
for use. You may make them of what colour you 
please, by tinging the paste with Brazil or vermit- 
lion for red ; indigo or verditer, &lc, for blue ; saf- 
froD, turmeric, or gamboge, &c, for yellow. 



CHAPTER IV. 

BIRD-CATCHING. 



106. Method of making the best sort of Bird Lime.^ 

and manner of using it, 

#^ Take, at midsummer, the bark of holly, and peel 
from the tree so much of it as will fill a moderately 
large vessel ; then put to it running water, and set 
it over the fire, and boil it till the gray and white 
bark rise from the green^ which will take up sixteen 
hours ; then separate the barks after the water is 
well drained away : then take all the green bark, 
and lay it on the ground in a close place and moist 



I up III 



76 filRD-CATCHING. 

/toor, and cover it over with green weeds, as hern- 
locks, docks, thistles, and the like ; thus let it lay 
ten or twelve dajs, in which time it will rot, and 
turn to filthy, slimy matter ; then put it into a mor- 
tar, andbeat.it till it becomes universally thick and 
tough, without the discerning of any part of the bark 
or substance ; then take it out of the mortar and car- 
ry it to a running stream, and there wash it well, 
not Jeaving any foulness about it ; then put it up in 
a close earthen pot, and let it stand and purge 
divers days together, scumming it as often ai_ 
foulness arises for four or five days ; when you [h 
ceive no more scum, then take it out of that pot 
and put it into another clean earthen vessel, cover 
it close, and keep it for use. 

When you want to use your lime, take what 
quantity you think fit, and put it into a pipkin, ad- 
ding a third part of goose or capon's grease, finely 
clarified, and set them over a gentle fire ; let them 
melt together, and stir them continually, till they 
are well incorporated ; then take it from the fire, 
and stir it till it be cold. 

When your Hme is cold, take your rods and warm 
them a little over the fire ; then take your lime and 
wind it about the tops of your rods, then draw your 
rods asunder one from the other, and close them 
again, continually plying and working them togeth- 
er, till, by smearing one upon another, you have 
equally bestowed upon each rod a sufficient pro- 
portion of the lime. 

If yon lime any strings, do it when the lime is ^ 
very hot, and at the thinnest, besm|aringthe stringi 
on all sides, by folding them together and unfolding 
them again. 

Ifvou fimestraws, it must be done likewise when 
the iime is very hot, doing a great quantity togeth- 
er, as many as you can well grasp in your hand, 
tossing them and working them before the fire till 



BIRD-CATCHING* 77 

they are all bedmearcd, every straw having its due 
proportion of lime. Having so done, put them in 
cases of leather till you have occasion to use 
them. 

To prevent the freezing of your lime, either on 
tivigs, bushes, or straws, you must add a quarter as 
much of the oil of petroleum as of capon's grease, 
mixing them well together, and then work it on your 
rods, &,c, ; and so it will ever keep supple, tough, 
and gentle, and will not be prejudiced should the 
liS&Bther freeze ever so hard. 

107. Experienced method of catching Larks. 

The common way of taking larks, of which so 
many are used at our tables, is in the night, with 
those nets which are called trammels. These are 
usually made of thirty-six yards in length, and about 
six yards over, with six ribs of packthread, which, 
at the ends are put upon two poles of about sixteen 
feet long, and made lesser at each end. These are 
to be drawn over the ground by two men, and every 
five or six steps the net is made to touch the ground, 
otherwise it will pass over the birds without touch- 
ing them, and they will escape. When they are 
felt to fly up against the net, it is clapped down, 
and they are all safe that are under it. The dark- 
est nights are most proper for this sport ; and the 
net will not only take larks, but all other birds that 
roost on the ground, among which are woodcocks, 
snipes, partridges, quails, fieldfares, and several 
others. 

108. ^Another Method. 

In the depth of winter, people sometimes take 

?'eat numbers of larks by nooses of horse-hair. — 
he method is this: take 100 or 200 yards of 
packthread ; fasten, at every six inches, a noose 
made of double iiorse-hair ; at every twenty yards 
the line is to be pegged down to the ground, and so 

G2 



78 BLEACHING. 

left ready to take them. The time to use this is ' 
wh^a Che ground is covered with snow, and the 
larks are to be allured to it by 8om§ white oats 
scattered all the way among the nooses. They 
must be taken away as soon as three or four are * 
bung, otherwise the rest will be frighted ; but tbo^ 
the others are scared where the sportsman comes, 
they will be feeding at the other end of the line, 
and the sport may thus be continued for a long- 
time. 






CHAPTER V. 

BLEACHING. 



109. Method of Bleaching Straw. 

Dip the straw in a solution of oxygenated muri- 
atic acid, saturated with potash. (Oxygenated mu- 
riate of lime is much cheaper.) The straw is thus 
rendered very white, and its flexibility is increased. 

4 

1 1 0. Efficacy of Horse Chesnuts in bleaching Linen 
and clearing Woollen Stuffs^ and as a Leyforprt' 
paring Hemp. 

The manner of making this ley is to peel the 
chesnuts* and rasp them as fine as possible into soft 
water. This is done ten or twelve hours before the 
mixture is to be used ; and, in the mean while it is 
stirred from time to time, the better to dissolve 
these raspings and impregnate the water. The last 
stirring is given about a quarter of an hour before 
the water is drawn off from the thickest part of the 
raspings which subside ; and this is done either by 
inclining the vessel and pouring off the ley gently, 
or by lading it out by hand, while the water is yet 



BLEACHING. 79 

white, and froths like soap-suds. In order to use 
this ley, it is made rather hotter than the hand can 
well bear, and the hemp is then stef p^'d and wash- 
ed in it as in soap-suds* Linen may aUo be flashed 
in this ley, and event when very duty, much less 
•oap will be required than iscommonl) uc»ed, it be- 
ing sufficient to rub the dirtiest parts only with soap. 
The raspings of the chesnut^, which sink to the 
bottom of the ley, are good for fowls aii>l pigs. — 
Hemp, as above prepared, may be dyed hktf silk, 
wool, or cotton, and may be made into stuif and 
garments of all kinds ; a great advantage attending 
the use of this material is, that it will not be de- 
stroyed by those insects which devour woollen 
cloth. 

111. To bleach Bees- Wax. 

Melt your wax, and while hot throw it into cold 
water to reduce it into little bits, or spread it out 
inlo very thin leaves, and lay it out to the air, night 
and day, on linen cloths, then melt it over again, 
and expose it as before : repeat this till the sun 
and dew have bleached it ; then, for the last time, 
melt it in a kettle, and cast it with a ladle on a 
table covered over with little round hollows, in the 
form of the cakes sold by the apothecaries ; but 
first wet your moulds with cold water, that the wax 
be the easier got out ; lastly, lay them out in the 
air for two days and two nights, to make it more 
transparent and dri^r. 



80 BOOKS. 

CHAPTER VL 

BOOKS. 



112. For taking Grease out of the leaves ofBooksm 

Fold up iu two small bags, made of fine open 
muslin, some ashes of burnt bones, finely powdered, 
or of calcined hartshorn, which is always ready 
prepared at the shops of the druggists ; laj the bagi 
of muslin, containing the powder, one on each side 
of the greasy leaf ; and having heated a pair of fire 
tongs, or hair-dresser^s pinching tongs, of a mode- 
rate warmth, press with them the two bags against 
the greasy spot, and hold them some time in that 
situation. Repeat the process, if necessary. 

When the irons cannot be conveniently used, the 
powder may be heated over the fire, in a clean ear- 
then vessel ; and, whilst hot, applied, without any 
muslins, on each side of the grease spot, and a 
weight laid on it to assist its efiect. 

113. Method of cleaning dirty Prints or Books. 

If the print should be pasted upon canvas, put it 
into a copper or kettle of water just boiling ; and in 
three or four minutes it will easily separate from the 
canvas ; next expose it to the sun, by placing it on 
a grass plat, and, to prevent the wind from having 
any effl^ct upon it, eo as to tear it, or blow it away, 
fix four skewers into the ground near the corners, 
and tie a string to each of the skewers, cro»*sed from 
corner to corner, so as to confine it completely ; 
when it becomes dry. wet it aga^in thoroughly ; and 
so on for several days, if necessary, in the same 
manner Hs you bleach linen; in which operation, ^ 
as welt as in bleaching prm ^9. a hot sun is best* If 
the foulness of the />n>i/ should settle in spots, soak 



BOOKS. 81 

those spots well by puftiog wet linen rags doubled 
upon them for a considerable time. If soaking in 
this manner does not get the spots out, put the print 
into hot water, gentlj boiling, or very near it, and 
let it continue for twenty-four hours ; but if the pa- 
per be spongy, or very thin, it will not bear soaking 
so long. Soaking in this manner is seldom neces- 
sary. The foulness from flies may be gently brush- 
ed off with a wet sponge, when the print is thorough- 
ly soaked. Spirit of sea salt, much diluted, will 
get white-wash offprints : take care not to hold 
' your nose over the vapor of the spirit. Do not 
leave your prints on the grass plat at night, for fear 
of the worms. 

114. To make strongs or Bookbinder'* s Paste* 

Mix wheaten flour, first in cold water, then boil 
it till it be of a glutinous consistence ; this- method 
makes common paste. When you wish it to be of 
a stronger nature^mix ^ fourth^ fifths or sixth o( ihe 
weight of the flour of powdered alum ; and^where it 
is wanted of a still more tenacious quality, add a 
little powdered rosin. 

115. To marble Books or Paper. 

Marbling of books or paper i? performed thus : 

Dissolve four ounces of gum arabic in two quarts of 

fair water ;then provide several <:olour8 mixed with 

water in pots or shells, and with pencils peculiar to 

each colour ; sprinkle them by way of intermixture 

apon the gum water, which must be put into a 

trough, or some broad vessel ; then with a stick, 

^ curl them, or draw th^^m out in streaks to as much 

^'^riety as may be done. Having done this, hold 

■l^'J^ar book, or books, close together, and only dip 

* tfceedgesinjOn the top of ih<»! water and colours,*ve- 

ry lightly ; which done, take thf>m off, and the plain 

impreasiou of the coloui;|9 in mixture will be* upon 



82 BREWING. 

the leaves ; doing as well the endB as the front of 
the book in the like manner, an(t afterwards giaz- 
ing the colours. 



CHAPTER VII. 

BREWING, AND MANAGEMENT OF MALT LIQ.U0RS. 



116. J/iceties in Malting, the Observance of which 
will increase the profits of the Malster near Ten 
per Cent. 

In malting barley, the water should be changed 
oftenest in spring and autumn, when the weather is 
warm : if barley is left Xo steep too long at these 
seasons in the same water, the water will grow 
slimy, and sometimes sour : the malster should 
therefore watch the change of the water, and when 
he finds it smooth or oily to the touch, or inclining 
to smell or taste sour, it must be changed immedi- 
ately. 

The common method of changing it, is first to 
draw otTthat in which the barley was steeping, and 
then by pumping or pails full, fill the cistern again : 
but this is a bad way, for when the water is drawn 
off the barley lies closer, and is apt to heat, which 
causes great damage It is therefore recommended 
to get a hogshead of water in readiness near the 
cistern, which should be thrown on the barley the 
instant the first water is drawn off; and as a hogs* 
head of water is sufficient to wet eight bushels of 
barley, as many hogsheads, save one, should be 
terwards added, as the cistern will wet. 

River water is the best, and hard spring watei**' 
the worst : in general the water that soonest 
should be preferred. 




BREWING. 83 

A thin skinned fine coated barley is the best for 
making malt ; it need not be very full-bodied, but 
should be quite fipe. 

Barley that has grown on land highly manured is 
not so good as that produced on land moderately 
rich without manure ; and if the soil is very luxu- 
riant, either by nature or art, the barley will not 
be fit for the malster. 

It is a good practice to give malt as much drying 
as possible on the floor ; it does not shrink so much 
as on the kiln, and acquires no foreign taste : when 
it comes to the kiln, tke fire in the furnace should 
be moderate, but equal. 

Brown malt, used in the same proportion as pale, 
will not make the strongest beer ; but the pale malts 
that are slack dried, make a raw unwholesome li- 
quor that will not keep. 

Malsters should never buy barley grown on va- 
rious soils, or even difierent fields, because the 
kerns will spire at different times ; they should 
therefore never buy tythe barley. A malster hav- 
ing bought one hundred quarters of tythe barley, 
without knowing it, soon discovered it in the malt- 
ing, and sold it to a hog-feeder for eight pence a 
quarter less than he gave, as the least loss he should 
incur by his bargain. 

To discover whether n>alt has been made of mix- 
ed or unripe barley, throw a couple of handfuls of 
it into a bowl of water ; stir it gently, and the grains 
that have not been malted will sink, the half-malted 
grains will have one end sunk, and so swim in a 
perpendicular position, and those that are perfectly 
malted will swim. The best barley will not malt 
.equally well at all times. As soon as housed, be- 
j.flire it is in sweat, and after the sweating is over, it 
vvill malt well, but not while it is in sweat. 

Barley that has been got in early in a very dry 
season malts hut indifferently ; but if the same bar- 
ley is left abroad till rain falls on it to loosen the 



S4 BREWING. 

hu&ks from the kernel, it will malt well, dnd yield a 
large increase. 

1 1 ?• Method of extracting the virtue of Hops in 

Brewing. 

The usual method is to put in bops without any 
preparation into the strong beer or ale wort ; the 
consequence is, the richer and bettei tbe wort is, 
the less it will partake of tbe essence of the hdps* 
The rich fat wort sheathes up the pores of the bop, 
and, as it were, embalms tbe leaves, so that the 
beer or ale wort can extract scarcely any part of 
the nece&sary quality of tbe hop ; but wben it is 
put into tbe small beer wort, a fluid of a more thin 
nature, there the pores are unsbeathed, and the 
small beer is rendered too bitter; therefore tbe hops, 
before tbey are put into tbe strong drink, should be 
previously' soaked in a pail of hot water. 

To confirm the truth of this observation, take a 
quarter of an ounce of the best green tea, and in- 
stead of pouring on it simple boiling water, let tbe 
water bare the same quantity of sugar boiled in it 
that would be necessary to sweeten so much tea 
wben made, and you will find that the sweetness of 
the water will prevent its extracting the grateful 
bitter of the tea. 

118. Cheap and easy Method of Brewings 

One bushel of malt, and three quarters of a poand 
of hops will, on an average, brew twenty gallons of 
good beer. 

For this quantity of malt, boil twenty-four gal- 
lons of water ; and having dashed it in the copper 
with cold water to stop the boiling, steep tbe malt 
(properly covered up) for three hours ; then tie up 
the hops in a hair cloth, and boil malt, hops, and 
wort, all together, fpr three quarters of an hour, 
which will reduce it to about twenty galls. Strain 
/'/ off} and set it to work when lukewarm. 



« BREWING. 86 

In large brewings this procesd perhaps would not 
answer, but in small ones, where the waste is not ?o 
great, and where the nnaltcan be boiled, the essence 
is sure to be extracted. 

110. To make excellent and wholesome Table Beer. 

To eight quarts of boiling water put a pound of 
treacle, a quarter of an ounce of ginger, and two 
bay leaves; let this boil for a quarter of an hour, 
then cool, and work it with yeast, the same as other 
beer. 

120. Uses of Ground Ivy in jlle, <Jrc. 

The leaves thrown into the vat with ale clarify 
it, and give it an antiscorbutic quahty. The expres- 
sed juice mixed with a little wine, and applied 
morning and evening, destroys the white specks on 
horses' eyes. 

121. To hiake Ginger Beer. 

To every gallon of spring water add one ounce of 
sliced white ginger, one pound of common loaf su- 
gar, and two ounces of lemon juice, or three large 
tablespoonfuls ; boil it near an hour, and take off 
tfie scum ; then run it through a hair sieve into a 
tub, and when cool (viz. 70 degrees) add yeast in 
proportion of half a pint to nine gallons ; keep it 
in a temperate situation two days, during which it 
may be stirred six or eight times ; then put it into a 
ca6k, which must be kept full, and the yeast taken 
off at the bung-hole with a spoon. In a fortnight add 
half a pint of fining (isinglass picked and steeped in 
beer) to nine gallons, which will, if it has been pro- 
toerly fermented, clear it by ascent. The cask must 
he kept full, and the rising particles taken off at the 
bang-hole. When fine (which may be expected in 
t#enty-four hours) bottle it, cork it well, and in 
summer it will be ripe and fit to drmk \\x 2^lo\\.\i\^\.^ 

H 



86 BREWING. 

■ 

122. To make Yeast or Barm* 

Mix two quarts of soft water with wheat floar, to 
the coDsisteiice of thick gruel, or soft hasty pudding; 
boil it gently for half an hour, and when aiiiiQ«t 
cold, stir into it half a pound of sugar, and four 
spoonfuls of good yeast. Put it into a large jug, or 
earthen vessel, with a narrow top, and place it be* 
fore the fii'e, so that it may, by a moderate heat, fer- 
ment. The fermentation will throw up a thin li- 
quor, which pour off and throw away ; the remain* 
der keep for use in a cool place in a bottle, or jug 
tied over. The same quantity of common yeast will 
suffice to bake or brew with. Four spoonfuls of 
this will make a fresh quantity as before. 

123. Substitute for Barm or Yeast. 

[This receipt was presented to the October Meet- 
ing of the Manchester Agricultural Society, held 
at Altringham, 1 809, by Charles Lownds, Esq. 
when it was ordered that a copy should be print* 
ed for each member.] 

Boil two ounces of hops in four quarts of water 
twenty minutes ; strain it, and whilst hot stir in half 
a pound of flour ; when milk-warm, mix half a pint 
of good ale yeast, or a pint of this mixture, which 
you should always reserve to keep a supply. When 
nearly cold, bottle and cork it well, and keep it for 
use in a cool place ; if too warm it would be apt to 
% 1 J^^ ^>ll judge of this by the season of the 
year; observe to fill the bottles only two thirds 
full. 

When used, put of it into the flour you intend for 
bread, in the proportion of a pint to twenty-four 
pounds, with water to make it of a proper warmth, 
mix a little of the flour with it in the middle of the 
mug, or kneading vessel ; it must be covered closCi 
and set in a tolerable warm place all night. Knead 
it well in the morning, and let it stand some hours 
longer torise* It should be eighteeuor twenty hours 



BREWING* 87 

from the first putting together, before your bread is 
set into the oven. 

1 24. To make Yeast in the Turkish manner. 

*Take a small teacup-fuli of split or bruised peas, 
and pour on it a pint of boiling water, and set it in 
a vessel all night on the hearth, or any warm place. 
The next morning the water will have a froth on it, 
and be good yeast, and will make as much bread as 
two quartern loaves. 

125. East/ method of preserving Yeast. 

Yeast may be preserved for a considerable time, 
by coating a board with a whiting-brush, allowing 
the coat to dry ; then putting on another, which is 
in like manner to dry ; and so a third, and any num- 
ber of successive coatings, which, when perfectly 
dry, will keep vigorous for a long time. Another 
method is to whisk the yeast until it becomes thin, 
and then to lay it upon a dry platter or dish, repeat- 
edly, with a soft brush as above-mentioned. The 
top is then to be turned downwards to keep out the 
diiat, but not the air which is to dry it* By this me- 
th<^d it may be continued till it be two or three 
inches thick, when it may be preserved in dry tin 
canisters for a long time good. When used for ba- 
king, a piece is to be cut oS', and laid in warm water 
to diffuse or dissolve, when it will be fit for use. 

126. ' To make artificial Yeast. 

Boil potatoes of the mealy sort till they are tho- 
roughly soft ; skin and wash them very smooth, and 
put as much hot water as will make the mash of the 
consistency of common beer yeast, and not thicker. 
Add to every pound of potatoes two ounces of 
coarse sagar or treacle, and when just warm, stir in 
it for every pound of potatoes two spoonfuls of 
yeast ; keep it warm till it has done fermenting, and 
in twenty-four hours it may be used- A pound of 
potatoes will make about a quart of yeai^l^ ^w^ \«\v^\v 



S8 BREWING. 

made will keep three months. Lay your bread 
eight hours before you bake it. 

N. B. Instead of water and sugar in the above 
receipt, beer has been used, not bitter nor stron^^ 
in the same proportion, and with equal if not better 
success. 

.127. Usefulness of the common Hazel-nut in Brew- 
ing. 
Incountries^here yeast Js scarce, it is a common 
practice to take the twigs of hazel, and twisting 
them together so as to be full of chinks, to steep 
them in the ale-yeast during its fermentation ; they 
are then hung up to dry, and at the next brewing 
they are put into the wort instead of yeast. In Italy 
the chips are frequently put into turbid wine, for the 
purpose of clearing it, which is effected in twenty- 
four hours. 

128. To extract the Essence of Malt for Brewing. 
After brewing, when the grains are done with, 

strew a small quantity of unslacked lime over the 
same, with two or three roots of horse radish. This 
will draw all the remaining goodness from th*e 
malt, and make a less quantity go farther than is 
' generally supposed. 

1 29. To^prevent Beer from growing flat. 

In a cask, containing eighteen gallons of beer, 
becoming vapid, put a pint of ground malt, suspend- 
ed in a bag, and close the bung perfectly ; the beer 
will be improved during the whole time of drawing 
it for use. 

1 30. To recover sour Beer. 

When beer is become sour, add thereto some 
ouster shells, calcined to whiteness, or, in place 
thereof, a little fine chalk or whiting. Any of these 
will correct the acidity, and make it brisk and 
sparkling; but it should not be long kept after 
such additions, othei wise it will spoil. 



BUILDING. 89 

131. To restore stale or pricked Beer, 

To about a quart of stale beer, put half a tea- 
spoonful of salt of wormwood ; this will restore the 
b«er, and n)ake it sparkle w^en poured into a glas5, 
like bottled porter. 



CHAPTER VIII. 

BUILDING. 



132. Artificial stone Floors and coverings for 
Houses, as made in some parts of Russia* 

The floors and coverings of houses, in some parts 
of South Russia, are made in the following man- 
ner :— For a floor, let the ground be made even, and 
some stones of any shape be put on, and, with a 
heavy wooden rammer, force or beat the stones in- 
to the ground, continuing to beat the floor till it be- 
come quite even, and incapable of receiving 9ny 
farther impression. Then run lime, immediately 
after it has been slacked, through a fine sieve, as 
expeditiously as possible, because exposure to the 
air weakens the lime. Mix two parts of coarse 
sand, or washed gravel, for there must be no earth' 
ID it, with one part of lime powder, and wet them 
with bullock^s blood ; so little moist, however, as 
merely 'to prevent the lime from blowing away in 
powder ; in short, the less moist the better. Spread 
it on the floor, and, without a moment^s loss of lime, 
let several men be ready, with large beetlep, to beat 
^ the mixture, which will become more and more 
moist by the excessive beating requisite. Then put 
on it some of the dry sand and lime mixed, and 
beaX it till like a stone. If nquircd to be very fine, 
. take for the next layer finely sifted lime, with about 

H2 



93 PUILDING. 

a tenth part 6f rye flour, and a little ox blood ; beat 
itttllit becomesa very stiff mortar, and then smooth 
it with a trowel. The next day again smooth it 
with a trowel ; and go continue to do, daily, till it 
be entirely dry. When it is quite dry and hard, rob 
it over with fresh ox blood, taking off ail which it 
will not imbible. No Wet will penetrate this compo- 
sition, which, however, after some time, is often 
painted with oil colou^. The whole floor appears 
as a single stone, and nothing will affect it. The 
drier it is used, the better, provided that, with much 
beating, it becomes like a very stiff mortar, and evi- 
dently forms a compact body. On flat tops of 
houses, the beetle, or rammer's ends must be smal- 
ler, to prevent the rebounding of the boards and 
timber, which would crack the cement ; but, when 
the thickness of a foot is laid on, it will beat more 
firmly. A thin coating of ox blood, flour and lime, 
being beat in large, strong, wooden troughs or mor- 
tars, till it can be spread with a trowel, may be used 
without beating it again on the floor or house top ; 
but it must be very stiff, and used most expeditious- 
ly. Even frost will not affect it. With this compo- 
sition^ artificial stone may be made, rammed very 
hard into strong wooden frames of the required 
shape ; particularly to turn arches for buildings of 
rammed earth. It is well known that earth which is 
not too argillaceous, with only the moisture it has 
when fresh dug, on being rammed between frames 
of wood, till the rammer will no longer impress it, 
makes eternal walls ; but a mass as hard as stqne 
may be made with a little lime added to sand, horse 
dung, and ox blood. The more the lime is beaten, 
the moister it becomes ; and it must contain so 
much moisture as to become, by beating, a solid 
mass, adhering in all its parts, and not remain 
crumbling, that will properly set as mortar. If there 
^e too little moisture at first, it will remain a pow- 
der ; if there be too much, it i«\\\ V>^cotiv^ «l toft 



BUILDING. 91 

mortar. Lime is of no use, mixed with clay or ve- 
getable earths ; which, if well beaten, are stronger 
without it. 

133. To cure damp Walls, 

Boil two quarts oftar with two ounces of kitchen- 
grease, for a quarter of an hour, in an iron pot. 
Add some of this tar to a mixture of slacked lime 
and powdered glass, which have passed through a 
flour sieve, and been completely dried over the fire 
in an iron pot, in the proportion of two parts of 
lime and one of glass, till the mixture becomes of 
the consistence of thin plaster. The cement must be 
used imiQcdiately after being mixed, and therefore 
it is proper not to mix more of it than will coat one 
square foot of wall, since it quickly becomes too 
hard for use ; and care must be taken to prevent 
any moisture from mixing with the cement. For a 
w^ll merely damp, a coating one eighth of an inch 
thick is sufficient ; but if the wall is wet, there must 
be a second coat. Plaster made of lime, hair, and 
plaster of Paris, may afterwards be laid on as a ce- 
ment. The cement above described will unite the 
parts of Portland stone or marble, so as to make 
then} as durable as they were prior to the fracture. 

134. To increase the Durability of Tiles for cover- 
ing Buildings. 

The following composition has been found to be 
of extraordinary durability, as a glazing or varnish 
for tiles. No sort of weather, even for a consider- 
able length of time, has had any effect upon it. It 
prevents that absorption of water, by which com- 
fnon tiles are rendered liable to crumble into dust, 
hinders the shivering of tiles; and gives to red 
bricks a soft lustre, by which their appearance is 
much improved. 

Over a weak fire heat a bottle of linseed olU 'wvl.K 
an ounce of litharge and a small potliouot mviivynv^ 



92 BUILDING. 

till such time as a feather, used in stirring it, shall 
be burnt to the degree of being easily rubbed to 
powder between the fingers. Then take off the 
varnish, let it cool, clarify it from any impurities 
which may have fallen to the bottom, and heat it 
again. Having, in the mean time, melted from three 
to four ounces of pitch, mix this with the warm var- 
nish. The specific gravity of the pitch hinders it 
from mingling thoroughly with the varnish, though 
it even remain so long upon the fire as to be evap- 
orated to considerable thickness. It is not till the 
varnish be cooled, nearly to the consistency of 
common syrup, that this effect takes place in the re- 
quisite degree. If it be too thick, let hot varnish 
be added to bring it to the proper consistency ; if 
it be too thin, add melted pitch. Next, put in as 
much brick dust as the mixture can receive, without, 
being made too (hick for convenient use. The 
finer the bricjc-dust, and the easier it is to be moved 
with the point of a pencil, so much the fitter will 
it be to fill up the chinks and unevenncss of the 
bricks, and, as it were, to incorporate itself with 
their substance. Prepare the brick dust in the fol- 
lowing manner : — Take a certain number of pi«^ces 
of good brick, beat them into dust, and sift the dust 
in a hair sieve. Then, to improve its fineness, rub 
it on a stone with water, dry it, and mix it with the 
varnish in the necessary proportion. If the brick- 
dust be naturally of too dark a colour, a portion of 
some that is brighter may be added, to make the 
colour clear. 

It is to be laid on the tiles in the same manner iD 
which oil colours in general are put upon the sub* 
stances on which they are applied. The composi- 
tion must be heated from time to time when it is to 
be used. 



BUIL^NG. 93 

1 35. Economical Method of employing Tiles for the 

Roofi^of Houses. 

A French architect (M • Castala) has invented a 
new method of employing tiles for the roofs of 
houses, so as to save one half of the quantity usually 
employed for that purpose. The tiles are made of 
a square instead of an oblong form ; and the hook 
that fastens them, is at one of the angles, so that, 
when fastened to the laths, they hang down diaso' 
nally^ and every tile is covered one fifth part on two 
sides by the superior row. 

\ 36. To improve Chimney Fire Places^ and increase 
the Heaty by a proper attention to the Setting of 
Stovesy Grates^ <Jrc. 

The best materials for setting stoves or grates, 
are fire-stone and common bricks and mortar. Both 
materials are fortunately very cheap. When bricks 
are used, they ishould be covered with a thin coat- 
ing of plaster, which, when it is dry, should be white 
washed. The fire-stone should likewise be white 
washed when that is used ; and every part of the 
fire-place, which is not exposed to being soiled and 
mieide black by the smoke, should be kept as white 
aod clear as possible. As white reflects more heat, 
as well as more light, than any other colour, it ought 
always to be preferred for the inside of a chimney 
fire-place ; and black, which reflects neither light 
nor heat, should be most avoided. 

137. To cure Smoky Chimnies. 

Put on the top of the chimney a box, in each of 
whose sides is a door hanging on hinges, and kc>pt 
open by a thin iron rod running from one to the 
other, and fastened by a ring in each end to a staple. 
When there is no wind, these doors are at rest, and 
each forms an angle of 45 degrees, which is decreas- 
ed on the windward side in proportion to the force 
ef the wind, and increased in the &au\e vdi\AO c^w V\v^ 



94 BUILDING. 

leeward side. If the wind be very strong, the door 
opposed to the wind becomes close, while the oppo- 
site one is opened as wide as it can be. — If the 
wind strikes the corner of the box it shuts two 
doors, and opens their opposites. This scheme bar 
been tried with success in a chimney which always 
filled the room with smoke, but which, since adopt- 
ed, has never smoked the room at all. The ex» 
pense is trifling, and the apparatus simple. 
138. A preparation to preserve Wood from catching 
Jire, and to preserve it from Decay. 

A member of the Royal Academy at Stockholm, 
says, in the memoirs of that academy, ^^ Having 
been within these few years to visit the alum mines 
of Loswers, in the province of Calmar, I took no- 
tice of some attempts made to burn the old staves 
of tubs and pails that had been used for the alum 
works. For this purpose they were thrown into the 
furnace, but those pieces of wood which had been 
penetrated by the alum did not burn, though they 
remained a long time in the fire, where they on- 
ly became red ; however, at last they were con- 
sumed by the intensenessoftheheat, but they yield- 
ed no flame. ^' 

He concludes, from this experiment, that wood or 
limber, for the purpose of building, may be secured 
against the action of fire, by letting it remain for 
some time in water, wherein vitriol, alum, or any 
other salt has been dissolved, which contains no in^ 
flammable parts. 

To this experiment it may be added, that wood, 
which has been impregnated with water, wherein 
vitriol has been dissolved, is very fit for resisting 
putrefactiop, especially if afterwards it is brushed 
over with tar, or some kind of paint; in order to 
this, the wood must be rubbed with very warm vi- 
triol water, and afterwards left to dry, before it is 
painted or tarred* Wood prepared in this manner 



BUILDING. 96 

will for a long time resist the iDJariesorthe airland 
be preserved in cellars and other low moist places. 
It is to be observed, that if a dissolution of vitriol is 
poured on such parts of timber where a sort of 
champignons are formed by moisture, and rubbed 
ofi^ none will ever grow there again. ' 

By boiling, for some hours, the spokes of wheels 
in vitriol water, they are not subject to rottenness 
in the parts where they enter the stocks, ^fter 
boiling them in this manner, they are dried as per- 
fectly as possible, and then, in the accustomed 
way, painted with oil colour. 

1 39. Cheap and excellent Composition/or preserv- 
ing Weather Boarding, Palings and all other 
works liable to bt injured by the Weather, 

Well burnt lime will soon become slacked by ex- 
posure in the open air, or even if confined in a situ- 
ation not remarkably dry, so as to crumble of itself 
into powder. This is called air-slacked lime, in con- 
tradistinction to that which is slacked in the usual 
way, by being mixed with water. For the purpose 
of making the present coinposition to preserve all 
sorts of wood work exposed to the vicissitudes of 
the weather, take three parts of this air-slacked 
lime, two of wood ashes, and one of fine sand ; pass 
them through a fine sieve, and add as much linseed 
oil to the composition as will bring it to a proper 
consistence for working with a painter's brush. As 
particular care must be taken to mix it perfectly, it 
should be ground on a stone slab with a proper 
muller, in the same manner as painters grind their 
white lead, &c. ; but where these conveniences are 
not at hand, the ingredients may be mixed in £t 
large pan, and well beat up with a wooden spatula. 
Two coats of this composition being necessary, the 
first may be rather thin ; but the second should be 
as thick as it can conveniently be worked. TViv^ 
most ^Kcellent composition for presemu^ \90^^^ 



96 BUILDING. 

when exposed to the injuries of the weather, is 
highly preferable to the customarj method of lay- 
ing on tar and ochre. 

140. To prevent the disagreeable smell arising from 

House Drains;^ 

As the dififueion of this noxious matter, within our 
dwellings, tends to produce disease and mortality, 
it cannot be too generally known that a cheap and 
simple apparatus has been contrived for carrying 
off the waste water, &c. of sinks, and which at the 
same time prevents the possibility of any air ever 
returning back in the house from thence, or from 
any drain which may be connected with it. It is 
known by the name of a stink trap^ and is made in 
brick by every bricklayer in London. 

141. Improved Ventilators for Rooms, ^ 

Different methods are adopted for ventilating, or 
changing the air of rooms. — Thus, • 

Mr. Tidd admitted fresh air into a room by tak* 
ing out the middle upper sash pane of glass, and fix- 
ing in its place a frame box with a round hole in its 
middle, about six or seven inches dianoeter, in which 
hole are fixed, behind each other, a set of sails, of 
very thin, broad copper plates, which spread over 
and cover the circular hole, so as to make the air, 
which enters the room, and turninground these saiki 
to spread round in thin sheets sideway, and so not 
to incommode persons by blowing directly upon 
them, as it would do if it were not hindered by the 
sails. This well-known contrivance has generally 
been employed in public buildings, but is very dis- 
agreeable in good rooms ; instead of it therefore, 
the late Mr. Whitehurst substituted another, which 
was, to open a small square, or rectangular hole, in 
the party wall of the room, in the upper part, near 
the ceiling, at a corner or part distant from the fire ; 
before it, he placed a thin p\ece of metal, or paste- 



BUILDING. 97 

board, &c« attached to the wall in its lower part, 
just before the hole, but declining from it upwards, 
80 as to give the air that enters by the hole, a direc- 
tion upwards against the ceiling, along which it 
sweeps, and disperses itself through the roon), with- 
out blowing in a current against any person. This 
method is very useful to cure smoky chimnies, by 
thus admitting, conveniently, fresh air. A picture, 
, placed before the hole, prevents the sight of it from 
disfiguring the room. 

1 42'. To preserve Churches from Dilapidation. 

The earth, next to the walls of a church, lying 
higher in any part than the floor of it, is not only 
very injurious to the walls, but to the wainscoat 
next to the same on the inside, by causing what is 
absurdly called the dry rot, and where there is no 
wainscoat, producing a green moss. The water 
from the eaves, where there is no parapet, should 
be carried off by a spout, -to extend much farther 
than the length of the wall, to prevent the wind 
from driving the wet against it. Where there are 
parapets, it should be brought down close to the 
wall, in leaden pipes, at the foot of which should be 
a stone somewhat hollow, to prevent its penetrating, 
and to throw it off from the wall ; a pipe should be 
also continued from the roof of the steeple to that of 
the church* These matters attended to, will prove 
of great advantage to the sacred fabrics, and save 
much expense in the repairs. 

143. To make Red Coral Branches for embellish- 
■_ ing Grottos, and the Method of building a Grotto 

at a very little Expense. 

Dissolve clear rosin in a brass pan ; to one ounce 
thereof add two drams of the finest vermillion ; 
and when you have stirred them well together, and 
have chose your twigs and branches, peeled and 
dried, take a pencil and paint these tw\g^^ aV\ on^t^ 



98 CANARY BIRDS. 

whilst the composition is warm, and shape them in 
imitation of natural coral of blackthorn; when done, 
hold it over a gentle coal fire, turn the branches a* 
bout with your hand, and it will make it all over 
smooth and even, as if polished. In the same man- 
ner you may, with white lead, prepare white; and 
with lamp black, black coral. 

A beautiful grotto may be built at a very little ex- 
pense with. glass cinders, which may be easily had, 
pebbles or pieces of large flint, and embellish it 
with such counterfeit coral, amber, pieces of look- 
ing-glass, oyster, muscle, and snail shells, moss, 
pieces of chalk, ore, &c. The cement to bind them 
together is as follows : take two parts of white ro- 
sin, melt It clear, add to it four parts of bees-wax ; 
when mixed together, add stone flour of the stone 
you design to cement two or three parts, or so much 
as will give the cement the colour of the stone ; to 
this add on^ part of flour of sulphur ; first incorpo- 
rate all together over a gentle fire, and afterwards 
knead it with your hands in warm water; with this 
cement the stones, after they are well directed, and 
have been warmed before the fire, in order to re- 
ceive the cement the better. (See also Chap* /. Sect* 
2. Farm Buildings.) 

. "r *r:w 

CHAPTER IX. 

CANARY BIRDS. 



1 44. Breeding and Management of Canary Birds* 

Canary 6irds,thatare kept tame, will breed three 
or four times in the year ; they usually begin in A- 
pril and breed in May and June, though sometimes 
in Ju]y and August. 



CAXARY BIRDS. 99 

Towards the middle of March, begin to match 
your birds, putting one cock and one hen in a small 
cage ; and when they have been so long together, 
that they are perfectly reconciled, and well pleased 
^ith each other, towards the end of March or the 
beginning of April, put them into the breeding cage 
for that use ; let it be full large, so that the birds 
may have the more room to fly and exercise them- 
selves ; let there be two boxes in the cage for the 
hen to build in, because she will sometimes hatch a 
second brood before the first are fit to fly, leaving 
the care of them to the cock to feed and bring them 
up, whilst she breeds in the other box ; therefore if 
she has not a spare box to build in she will be apt 
to make her nest upon the birds, (as it sometimes 
happens) and smother them, or build £0 near that 
they will spoil one another* Whilst your birds are 
pairing, feed them with soft meat, egg, bread, maw 
seed, and a little scalded rape se.ed, hardly a third 
part of egg ; this last, and the bread, grated fine, 
and so mix it tpgether. 

When they have young ones, give the same soft 
victuals fresh every day, and let them have fresh 
greens likewise, such as cabbage-lettuce, now and 
then ; but give them more constantly chick-weed 
with seeds upon it : towards June, shepherd's' 
purse ; in July and August, plantain ; and before 
they have young ones, give them groundsel, with 
seed" upon it. 

I would recommend to such persons who breed 
only a few birds for their own diversion, to use very 
large cages, it being much the best way ; but those ^ 
who intend to breed a number should prepare a 
room for that purpose* 

Let the situation of it be such that the birds may 
enjoy the benefit of the morning sun, which is both 
delightful and nourishing, and let wire, instead of 
glass, be at the windows, that they may h^N^ \\\^ 



3SGr7^S\S 



• * 



100 CANARY BIRDS. 

advantage of tbeain which will add to their-healtb, 
and make them thrive the better ; keep the floor of 
the room clean, sometimes gifting fine gravel or. 
sand, and often removing the dting and the otber^ 
foul stuff. You must take care to fix nest boxes and 
back cages in every convenient corner and place in 
the room, at least twice the number that you have 
of birds, that they may have the more variety to 
choose a lodgingtotheirminds, for some love to build 
high, and some very low, some in a light place, and 
and others will choose a dark place to build in.r 

There ought to be two windows in the room, one 
at each end, and several perches, at proper distan- 
ces, for the birds to settle upon as they fly back- 
wards and forwards. 

You may likewise set a tree in some convienient 
part of the room ; it will divert the birds, and some 
of them will like to build in it. You must observe, 
that their nest is secure from falling through, and if 
in danger, to tie the tree closer, to prevent it, and 
they will hatch there as well as in any other place* 

Remember not to put too many birds together; 
eight or ten pair are enough for a middling room. 
When your birds are first paired as directed be- 
fore, turn them into the room, where they will live, 
as it were, a conjugal life ; and notwithstanding 
there are several male and female birds in the same 
room, one cock and one hen, as (hey first couple to- 
gether, will keep constant to each other, and both 
concur and assist in sitting and feeding their young, 
for the cock bird takes his turn in building the nest, 
sitting upon the eggs, and feeding the young, as 
well as the hen. 

Of their nests and how to order their young*'--- 

You must furnish the birds with stuff for making 

their nests, such as fine hay, wool, cotton, and hair ; 

let these materials be Ihoronghly dry ; then mix and 

tie ibem up together in a net, or some such thing, 



CANARY BIRDS. 101 

80 that the birds may easily pull it out as they want 
it, and let it be bung in a proper place in the room 
for that purpose. 

They build a pretty nest, about which they will 
sometiines be so industrious, as to begin and finish 
it in one day, though they are generally two or 
three days making their nest : the hen commonly 
lays four or five eggs, and sits fourteen days. 

When the young are hatched, leave them to the 
care of the old ones to nurse and bring up till they 
. can fly, and feed themselves. The hen, as 1 said 
before, by reason of their rankness in being kept 
together, and provided with all things necessary at 
hand, without any trouble in seeking their food, 
&c. will sometimes build and hatch again before 
the first can shift for themselves, the care of which 
she transfers to the cock-bird, wha will feed and 
nurse them himself, supplying the part of both pa- 
rents, while she brings on and attends her new pro- 
geny : but it is not so with those birds that live at 
, ^arge in the fields ; thtty observe their season for 
breeding, and after they have hatched, company 
with their brood till their young are grown up, and 
able to provide for themselves. 

When the young canary birds can feed them- 
•Helves, take them from the old ones, and cage them ; 
if they are flying about the room, to catch them 
bring a spar& cage with some soft victuals in it, 
taking the other meat that is in the room away, and 
placing the cage there in its stead, with the door 
open, and a siring fastened thereto, then stand ata 
distance, and the old ones will presently for the 
sake of the meat, intice the young ones into the 
cage ; then pull the string, and shut in as many as 
you can, and catch them. 

Let their mrat be the yolk of an egg hard boiled, 
with as much of the best bread, and a little scalded 
rapeseed ; when it is boiled soft, bruise the seed fine, 

12 



103; CATTLE. 

and put a little maw seed amongst it, and mix it all 
together, and give them a sufficient quantity fresh 
every day ; never lei it be stale or sour ; besidei 
this, give them a little scalded rapeseed, and a little 
rape and canary by itself. You may keep tbem to 
this diet till they have done moulting, and afterwards 
feed them as you do the old ones, unless at any 
time they are sick, then continue it. 

CHAPTER X. 

CATTLE. 



SECT.I.-FOOD FORCATTLE IN GENERAL. 

145. The Everlasting Pea^ a valuable Crop for 

Cattle. 

The everlaslingpea, commonly grown in gardensi 
would make an advantageous crop, especially in 
stony land, when the ground is broken up. When 
once sown, it will bear a crop for many years, with- 
out any annual trouble, except scattering some 
manure, and getting in the crop. It should be cut 
for green food. 

Dr. Anderson says, that the pods strained or 
bruised would yield a great supply of food for 
cattle. 

146. Scotch Kale^ excellent Food for Cattle. 

Scotch kale planted out in June, in good land^ 
will grow very large before winter, and would give 
an abundant supply for cattle, where no other juicy 
food is to be had. As it grows upwards, it may be 
planted close, and a vast deal will stand upon an 
acre. 



CATTLE. . 103 

147. The virtues of Hay Tea for cattle. 

When there is a scarcity of bay, the following 
experiment will be found a valuable succedaneum 
to the cattle, and a great saving to the farmer. 

Boil about a handful of hay in three gallons of 
water (and so in proportion for any greater or small- 
er quantity,) or if the water is poured boiling hot 
on the hay, it will answer nearly as well. Give it 
to the cattle and horses to drink when cold ; or if 
the cattle or horses are any way ill, and undercov- 
er, give it them blood warm. 

This drink is so extremely nutritive that it nour- 
ishes the cattle astonishingly, it replenishes the ud- 
der of the cows with a prodigious quantity of milk, 
makes the horses stale plentiiuily, and keeps them 
healthy and strong ; and by this method one truss 
or hundred of hay will go as far as eight or ten other- 
wise would do. The cattle «and horses will not 
seem to like it at first, but if they are kept till they 
are very thirsty, they will drink freely of it ever 
afterwards. 

Farmers, and others, in Sweden, and other cold 
countries, who have cattle and horses, when they 
are in want of fodder, constantly pursue this meth- 
od, and find the good effects of it ; and there is no 
doubt but this method would have the same good ef- 
fect on sheep in severe weather, when the sheep 
are housed, or the land covered with snow, espe- 
cially if they were given a small quantity of salt, (a 
practice used in Spain to make the wool fine and 
soft,) to strengthen the sheep, and prevent the rot, 
for the stronger the sheep are, the greater quantity 
of wool they will produce^ and which wiH he much 
finer and softer than when the sheep are lean and 
weak. 

The hay, after being used as before-mentioned, 
and dried, may be used as a litter for horses or cat- 
tle ; it makes very good manure, and saves straw, 



104 CATTLE. 

which will be a considerable advantage, especially 
when there is a scarcity of that article. 

N. B. By a handful of hay, is meant as much as 
a person can grasp in his hand from a parcel of 
loose hay. And it is presumed and wished, as the 
above method is so easy and safe, that no person, 
who has cattle, cows, horses, or sheep, will neglect 
to try it. 

This method was followed with a cow, which 
was kept in a large city, for the sake of the children, 
where no green food could easily be got in winter, 
except the refuse of the vegetables used in the 
family. Boiling water was poured into a tub half 
filled with hay, and the tub was covered till cold. 
But the cow eat the hay as well as the tea, seemed 
to be fond of both, and it was thought the milk was 
more plentiful. It was, in fact, a succedaneum for 
green food. 

148. A profitable way of fattening Pigs. 

Put four pigs in a sty, for they feed best in com- 
pany, but if there are too many they are apt to 
quarrel ; feed ihem moderately the first week, and 
thrice during the second week mix with their bar- 
ley meal as much antimony as will lie on a shilling ; 
and the third week twice give them the same quan- 
tity. 1 need scarcely observe it is in powder. 

This purifies the blood, gives them an appetite, 
and makes them thrive apace. 



SECT. II.— BEST METHODS OF FEEDING 
AND MANAGING CoVVS. 

149. On the great increase of Milk J rom feeding 

milch cows with Saiffoin, 

The qufintity of milk produced l>y cows fed by 
sainfoin, is nearly double to that of any other food. 



CATTLE. 105 

The milk is also much richer, and will yield a lar- 
ger quantity of cream. The batter will aho be 
better coloured and flavoured than any other. 

150. Parsnips productive of Milk in Cows* 

Parsnips cause cows to produce ^abundance of 
milk, and they eat them as free as they do oil-cake. 
Land, 7/. an acre in Guernsey, is sown with pars- 
- nips to feed cattle, and the milk is like cream. 
Sheep, when lambing, fed with them, produce 
much milk. They are improper food for horses, 
subjecting them to blindness. 

151. Most proper Food for Milch Cows. 

Milch cows are infinitely more profitable kept in 
the house than out of doors , but they must be 
trained to it, otherwise they do not thrive. 

The best food for them is clover, lucerne, pota- 
toes, yams, turnips, carrots, cabbages, peas, and 
.beans. 

Such cows as those in the neighbourhood of Lon- 
don, kept in the house, and properly fed, ought to 
yield nine gallons per day, for the first four months 
after calving. 

152. Additional qiiantiti/ of Milk to be gained, b^ 

keepiag Milch Cows m the House. 

In the management of cows, a warm stable is 
highly necessary ; and currying them like horses, 
not only affords them pleasure, but makes them 
give their milk more tVeely. They ought always 
to be kept clean, laid dry, and have plenty of good 
sweet water to drink. Cows treated in this manner 
have given two gallons of miik at a time, when 
within ten days of calving. 

153. To prevent Cows from contracting bad habits 

while niiikin^. 
Cows should al<vi\}s be treated with great gentle- 
ness, and soothed by mild usage^ es^cci^ll^ n^Vv^w 



106 MANAGEMENT OF CALVES. 

young and ticklish, or when the paps are tender, in 
which case the udder ought to be fomented with 
warm water, before milking, and touched with the 
greatest gentleness, otherwise the cow will be* in 
danger of contracting bad habits, becoming stub- 
born and unruly, and retaining her milk ever after* 
A cow never lets down her milk pleasantly to the 
person she dreads or dislikes. The udder and 
paps should always be washed with clean water 
before milking ; but care should be taken that none 
of that water be admitted into the milking paih 

SECT. III.— MANAGEMENT OF CALVES. 

154. Successful experiment of rearing Calves with' 
out milk* From Transactions of the Bath Society ^ 
voL 5. 

Sir, Tytherton, Dec. 3, 1789. 

The followii'ig is as near a calculation of the 
expenses of rearing my^ calves without milk, as 1 
can at present assert. In the year 1787, 1 weened 
seventeen calves ; in 1788, twenty-three; and in 
1789, fifteen. 1 bought, in 1787, three sacks of 
tinsf^ed ; I put one quart of the seed to six quarts 
of water, which, by boiling ton minutes, became a 
good jelly ; this jelly is mixed with a small quantity 
of the tea of the best hay, steeped in boiling water. 

Having my calves to drop at ditfcrent timf b, I 
did not make an exact calculation of tho expense of 
this hay tea, but out of my three sacks of seed 1 had 
bett('r than two bushels left at last. I gave them 
the jelly and hay tea Ihre^ times a day ; to the boy, 
who looked after them, Gd. per dny : the price of 
the linseed was 4s. 6rf. a bushel : the whole three 
year's seed 2/. 5s. 

My calves are kopt in a good growing state, and 
are much better at this time than my neighbours, 



CATTLE. 107 

that are reared by milk : they do not fall off so 
much when they come to grass. 

I am, &c. Thomas Crook. 

155. To make Hay Tea for Calves. 

Take about one pound of red clover hay, well 
got in, and six quarts of clear spring water; boil 
them together till the water is reduced to 4 quarts ; 
then take out the hay, and mix a pound of barley, 
oat, or bean meal, amongst a Httle water ; put it into 
the pot or cauldron, while it is boiling, and keep it 
constantly stirring until it is thickened. Let it 
cool, then give it to the calf, adding as much whey 
as will make a sufficient meal. This is a cheap 
way of rearing calves, and the valuable article of 
milk may be saved for other purposes. 
X5Q» Excellejit method of rearing Calves, and of 
■ preserving the cream, and a great part of the milk 

during that time. 

Put some water on the fire, nearly the quantity 
that the calf can drink. When it boils, throw into 
it one or two handfuls of oatmeal, and suffer the 
whole to boil for a minute. Then leave it to cool 
antil new milk warm. Then mix with it one or two 
quarts of milk, that has stood twelve hours, and has 
been skimmed ; stir the whole, and give it the calf 
to drink. At first it is necessary to make the calf 
drink by presenting the fingers to it, but it soon 
learns to do without this help, and will grow incom 
parably faster than by the old method. This new 
method is not only a theoretical truth, but its suc- 
cess is confirmed by experience. 

The economical advantages resulting from it are 
88 follows : According to the old method, a calf in- 
tended for slaughter is made to suck for three weeks, 
and those intended for agriculture from six to eight 
weeks. Supposing the cow gives only a moderate 
quantity of milk, the value of it will amount, in 
three weeks, to nearly the value of the calf« If^orv 



108 HORSES. 

the coDtrary, we rear a calf according to this meth- 
od, we consume during the three weeks onlj three 
quarts of oatmeal, at most, and the skimmed milk* 
Calves that have been brought up by this meth- 
od have been always healthy and strong, and not 
subject to disease. They are not suffered to suck 
at all, but to have the pure milk of the mother to 
drink for the first four days, because it has been 
observed, that the separation, after four days, is 
more painful to the mother than when the calf is. 
taken from her soon after its birth. 

157. To prevent Sickness in Calves about Michael' 

rrias. 

Take newly churned fresh butter, without salt, 
and form of it a. cup the size of a hen^s egg ; into 
this cup put three or four cloves of garlic bruised, 
and fill it up with tar ; do so for each calf: put this 
cup, &c. down each calPs throat : immediately af- 
terwards put into the calPs nostrils half a^ table 
spoonful of spirit of turpentine ; then tar the calPs 
snout well, and keep them within doors for an hour. 
The calves ought to be housed the night before this 
medicine is given. 



SECT. IV.— HORSES. 

1 58. Utility of Carrots as food for Horses and other 

stall Beasts* 

Carrots are excellent food for horses, either giv- 
en alone or along with hay, likewise for fattening 
stall beasts. They make them eat straw, and very 
indifferent hay, greedrly. If the same be given to 
cows, the milk will have a much less offensive taste 
and smell than when they are fed on turnips. 

Remark* — It must be noted, however, that car- 
rotSf though a very excellent, are a very expensive 



food. They would not enable a farmer to pay his 
rent. 

159. Benefit of Furze or Gohe as a Winter Food 

for Horses* 

Having a horse Wi)ich had been overworked to 
the appearance of a surfeit, I treated him in the 
usual manner for that disorder ; and knowing how 
necessary it would be to his speedy recovery to 
give him green food after his physic, it occurred to 
me that furze might answer the purpose immediate- 
ly, as there could be none of the common herbage 
procured before the end of April at soonest. I 
therefore bad a quantity of the tops, and the ten* 
derest parts of that plant, cut daily to preserve it, 
fresh, which I hashed upon a block, with a very 
long and heavy chopping knife, as small as possible, 
and then beat it again over the same block with a 
carpenter's mallet, (which blunted in a great meas- 
ure the sharp prickles,) and gave half a peck a day 
of it to the horse, (in the stable,) which eat it most 
greedily, and received so much benefit from it« that 
he is totally recovered, and carrie^a very fine coat. 

The success of this experiment led me to consi- 
der the great utility this plant may be of to poor 
people who live in the neighbourhood of large com- 
mons overgrow<n with it, as food for cows in winter, 
when fodder is dear ; and, in reality, none so pri>«> 
per for milch cattle as this green food, which must 
naturally increase the milk, &nd from the fragrant 
smell it sends forth while cutting, it may reasonably 
be conjectured it will give no ill taste to it, as many 
vegetables do. 

Kemark, — In any situation, however, where 
furze could be extensively used as food for cattle, 
chopping and beating would be found to be too ex- 
pensive a process, though it has often been tried on 
a small scale, and the food is known to be excel- 
lent. Every leaf o[ the conraion furze of this coun- 

K 



110 DISEASES OF CATTLE AND SHEEP. 

try is pointed by a prickle ; and the only cheap 
way of making the plant useful, is to bruise it to a 
pulp, between rollers in a mill. Such rollers, ad- 
ded to a thrashing machine, might, in some situa- 
tions, be verv useful. 



SECT, v.— SHEEP. 

1 60. To mark Sheep without injury to the JVool* 

To thirty spoonfuls of linseed oil add two ounceg 
of litharge, and one ounce of lamp black; unite 
them together by boiling, and mark the sheep 
therewith. 

161. To improve the wool of Sheep hy Smearing* 

Immediately after the sheep are shorn, soak the 
roots of the wool that remain all over with oit op 
butter and brimstone, and three or four days after- 
wards wash them with sa|t and water ; the wool of 
next season will not only be much finer, but the 
qoHutity will be ip greater abundance. It may be 
depended upon, that the sheep will not be troubled 
with the scab or vt^rmin that year. Salt water is a 
safe ai^l efifectual remedy against maggots. 

SECT. Vr>*— DISEASES OF CATTLE AND 

\ SHEEP. 

162. To preserve Xj4ittle from Disease in the fVinter*^ 

When ca^Ule are k^pt out in the. winter, it is re* 
commended as a usetit^l practice to rub some tar 
at the root of the horn;\ which prevents the wet 
from gettin^^ between the rt'^otand the skin, and, it 
is eaid, contributes to preserve the health of the 
animal, and to keep it fromN various diseases to 
which it may gtherwiso be liabt^* 



DISEASES OF CATTLE AND SHEEP. 1 f 1 

163. Easy method of preventing the Rot in Sheep, 

It is a custom with the farmers, in some districts, 
to pasture their sheep on ground abounding with 
broom for several dajs, when the broom is in blos- 
som. " This," says Sir John Sinclair, on the autho- 
rity of an intelligent correspondent, ^' will prevent 
the sheep so pastured from being infected with the 
rot for that season." 

lG-4. Parsley recommended to Farmers to be soivn 
with Rape-Seed^ as a preservative against the Resp 
in Sheep. 

A correspondent of the Chester Chronicle re- 
commends to all farmers, who s'ow rape seed, to 
sow with it a small portion of parsley at the same 
time ; this he pronounces an infallible preservative 
against the malady well known by the name of resp, 
in sheep ; he also advises to sow parsley on tur- 
nip land at the time of hoeing turnips. The above 
correspondent asserts, that he has pursued this 
plan upwards of 25 years, and during that time he 
has never lost one sheep, either in rape or turnip 
land. 

Remark* — In some counties, parsley is sown 
with clover, on the supposition that it prevents 
cattle from being bursten, or hovcn. 

165. Cure of the Rot in Sheep. 

Take a quantity of rue leaves, bruise them well, 
express the juice, and add an equal weight of salt ; 
when any of the sheep are in great danger of being 
rotten, give them a table-spoonful of this once a 
week ; and if they are not so bad, once in ten or 
twelve days. This will be found an excellent pre- 
servative, and, in fact, should always be given to 
sheep newly brought-in, as it may preserve them in 
health, and can do them no harm, let them be ever 
so well. 



n2 CEMyfTS. 

ft 

CHAPTER XI. 

CEMENTS. 



166. Admirable Cement^ or Mortar^ as made on the 

Cotsroold Hills, 

On the Cotswold Hills, in Glocestershire, whlsre 
lime is dear, and sand not to be had, an excellent 
mortar is prepared at a moderate price. Invention 
is seldom more successful, than when it is prompted' 
by necessity. The scrapings of the public roads 
over these hills, being levigated limestone more or 
less impregnated with the dung and urine of the ani- 
mals travelling on them, are found to be a most ad- 
mirable basis for cement. The scrapings alone are 
frequently used for ordinary walls ; and the general 
proportion, for even the best buildings, is not more 
than one part lime to three of scrapings. This mor- 
tar of lees than ten years standhig, has been ob- 
served to possess a stone-like tenacity, much firmer 
than the common stone of the country ; and, conse- 
quently, much harder than the stones from which 
either the basis or the lime was made. The method 
of preparing this cement is simply by collecting 
the road scrapings, slacking the lime, and mixing 
them very thoroughly together : carefully picking 
out, as the mass is worked over, the stones or other 
foulnesses which may have been collected. For 
stone work, this is quite sufficient ; for brick work, 
it might be necessary to pass the materials through 
a screen or sieve, previously to their being united, 
and made up into mortar. Similar scrapings may be 
collected, wherever limestone is used as a material 
in making or repairing roads ; this admirable mor« 
tar can, therefore, readily be prepaperd, in nil such 
places, with very little trouble or expense. 



CEMENTS. 113 

167. Useful property of common Glue» 

Common glue, dissolved with linseed oil, will re- 
list the weather. The glue should be melted with 
a very little water, before the oil is added. 

168. To make Size from Potatoes. 

One of the beneficial'iises of potatoes, not per- 
haps generally known, is, that the starch of them, 
quite fresh, and washed only once, may be em- 
ployed to make size, which, mixed with chalk, and 
diluted in a little water, forms a very beautiful and 
good white for ceilings. This size has no smell, 
while animal size, which putrifies so readily, al- 
ways exhales a very disagreeable odour. That of 
potatoes, as it is very little subject to putrefaction, 
appears, from experience, to be more durable in 
tenacity and whiteness; and, for whitewashing, 
should be preferred to animal size, the decomposi- 
tion of which is always accompanied with unhealthy 
exhalations. 

169. To make Patent Paste. 

Boil a quantity of mealy potatoes, and mash them 
without peeling ; then take as many, and one third 
more, of raw potatoes, and obtain the starch or 
flour from them, by grating them into a vessel of 
water, and reserving only the finer particles. The 
mashed potatoes are to be diluted, beat up, and pas- 
sed through a sieve. They are then to be put into 
a boiler, and when nearly boiling, the starch pro- 
duced from the grated potatoes is to be added, and 
the whole boiled together about twenty minutes, 
during which time it must be kept carefully stirred : 
it is then good paste, and is to be put into a wide 
▼essel to cool. 

1 70. Jl most excellent Glue, 

Beat an ounce of isinglass to shreds ; dissolve it 
gradually in a pint of brandy, by means of gentle 

K2 



V. 



114 • CEAfENTS. 

heat, and then strain the solution through a piece of 
fine muslin. The glue thus obtained should be kept 
in glass closely stopped. When required for use, it 
should be dissolved with moderate heat, when it 
will appear thin, transparent, and almost limpid. 
When applied in the mannx^r of common glue, its ef- 
fect is so powerful as to join together the parts of 
wood stronger than the wood itself is united. This 
glue dries into a very strong, tough, and transpa- 
rent substance, not easily damaged by any thing 
but aqueous moisture, which renders it unfit for any 
use where it would be much exposed to wetor damp 
air. 

171. Parchment G lue . 

Take one pound of parchment, and boil it in 
pix qiiarts of water, till the quantity be reduced to 
one, then strain otTthe dregs, and boil it again till it 
be of the consistence of glue. 

The same may be done with glovers' cuttings 
of leather, which makoa colourless glue, if not burnt 
in the evaporation of the water. 

172. To make Lip Gluc^ for joining Paper ^ Silk^ 

or thin Leather^ fyc. 

Take of isinglass and parchment glues, each one 
ounce ; sugarcandy and gum-tragacaiith, each twc 
drams ; add to them an ounce of water, and boil 
the whole together till the mixture vvhiMi cold, is of 
the consistence of glue ; then form the same into 
small rolls, or any other ^gure that may be mos' 
convenient, and it will be 6t for use. 

This glue may be wet w*ith the tongue, and rul 
bed on the edg*;s of the paper, silk, or leather, th? 
are to be joined ; and on being laid togelhcr, ai 
suffered to dry, they will be united as firmly as a 
other part of the substance. 



CEMENTS. llo 

173. Preparation of common Cement for joining 
Alabaster^ Marble^ Porphyry, or other Stones, 
Take of bees^-wax two pounds, and orri>8in one 
pound, melt them, and add one pound and a half of 
the same kind of matter, powdiTed.as tho body to 
be cemented ia composed of, i^trewing it into the 
melted mixture, and stirring; them well together, and 
afterwards kneading the mass in water, that the 
powder may be thoroughly incorporated with wax 
and rosin. The proportion of the powdered matter 
oiay be varied, where required, in order to bring 
the cement nearer to the colour of the body on 
which it is employed. 

This cement must be heated when applied ; as 
must also the parts of the subject to be cemented 
together; and care must be taken likewise, that 
they be thoroughly dry. 

When this composition is properly managed, it 
forms an extremely strong cement, which will even 
suspend a projecting body of considerable weight, 
after it is thoroughly dry and set, and is therefore of 
great use to all carvers in stone, or others who may 
have occasion to join together the parts of bodies 
of this nature. 

Melted sulphur, applied to fragments of stones 
previously heated (by placing them before a tire) 
to at least the mt^lting point of sulphur, and then 
joined wit^ sulphur between, makes a pretty firm 
and durable joining. 

Chips out of corners, and similar little deficiencies 
ID the stone, may also be filled up with melted sul- 
phur, in which some of the powder of the stone has 
been mixed : but the stone should be previously 
heated. 
174. Strong Cement, 

To prevent the escape of the vapours of water, 
Spirit, and liquors not corrosive, the simple applica- 
tion of slips of moistened bladder will answer very 



lis CEMENTS. 

well for glas^ and paper with good paste for metal. 
Bladder, to be very adhesive, should be soaked some 
time in water moderately warm, till it feels clammy, 
it then sticks v^ry well ; if smeared with white of 
eggs instead of water, it adheres still closer. 

175. Fire Lute. 

For a fire lute, take porcelain clay from Corn- 
wall, (not pipe clay) let it be pounded small, and 
mixed up to the consistence of tkick paint, with a 
solution of two ounces of borax in a pint of hot wa- 
ter. For want of this jpeculiar kind of clay, slacked 
quicklime mixed up in the same manner may be 
used. This may be kept ready mixed in a covered 
vessel. 

1 76. Cold Lute. 

Take equal parts, by measure, of the above clay 
- and wheat flour ; mix them to a proper consistence, 
with cold water. This is more tenacious than the 
fire lute, but does not keep so well. 

177. Another. 

A very exellent lute for many purposes may be 
made by beating up an egg, both the white and the 
yolk, with half its weight of quicklime in powder* 
This lute is to be put upon a piece of linen, and 
applied as usual. It dries slowly, but becomes very 
compact, and acquires great hardness.^ 

178. Cement for Iron Flues. 

Common salt and sifted wood ashes, equal parts, 
made into a paste with water, make a good cement 
for iron flues, &c. better than most other composi- 
tions, and maj be applied when the flue is hot or 
cold, iron filings and vinegar will do as well, or 
rather iron-filings moistened with diluted muriatic 
acid. These are commonly used for filling up the 
spaces between cylinders. 



CEMENTS. 117 

179. Blood Cement for repairing Copper Boilers j 

ire, ire, ^ 

This cement is often used by coppersmiths, to 
lay over the rivets and edges of the sheets of cop- 
per ID large boilers, to serve as an additional secu- 
rity to the joinings, and to secure cocks, &c« from 
leaking ; it is made by mixing pounded quicklime 
with ox blood. It must be applied fresh made, as 
it soon gets so hard as to be unfit for use. 

If the properties of this cement were duly inves- 
tigated, it would be found useful for many purposes 
to which it has never yet been applied. It is ex- 
tremely cheap, and very durable. 

1 80. To restore Cast Iron Furnaees^ and Soap Pans^ 
that through Accident or Mismanagement may be 
cracked. 

Take a small clod of fine new lime, slacked, and 
finely sifted, mix it up with white of eggs, well 
beaten, till it is of the consistence of pap or soft mor- 
tar, then add to it some iron file dust, and with this 
composition fill up the inside of the crack (which 
will be sufficient) raising a little seam or bead 
upon it, and it will soon become hard and fit for 
use. 

This experiment completely cured a gentleman's 
furnace which had a crack fourteen inches long, and 
he has boiled in it three or four days every week 
since, without the least inconvenience or prospect 
of its being again disunited. 

181. Composition for a Cement to resist the Ac' 

tion of Fire and Water, . 

Take half a pint of milk, and mix with an equal 
quantity of vinegar, bo as to coagulate the milk. 
Separate the curds from the whey, and mix the lat- 
ter, with the whites of four or five egg.), after beat- 
ing them well up. The mixture of these two sub- 
stances being complete, add sifted quick-lime, and 



118 CKMENTS. 

make the whole into a thick paste of the consisten- 
cj of putty. If this mastic is carefully applied to 
broken bodies, oi to fissures of any kind, and dried 
properly, it resists water and fire* 

182. A Cement to resist Moisture^ 

May be formed by meiting by heat, without wa- 
ter, common glue, with half its weight of rosin; to 
which must be added, some red ochre, to give it 
body ; it is particularly useful for cementing hones 
to their frames. 

1 83. To make Japanese Cement^ or Rice Glue, 

This elegant cement is made by mixing rice flour 
intimately with cold water, and then gently boiling 
it. It is beautifully white, and dries almost trans- 
parent. Papers pasted together by means of this 
cement will sooner separate in their own substance 
than at the joining, which makes it extremely use- 
ful in the preparation of curious paper articles, as 
tea-trays, ladies^s dressing* boxes, and other articles 
which require layers of paper to be cemented to- 
gether, it is, in every respect, preferable to com- 
mon paste made with wheat flour, for almost every 
purpose to which that article is usually applied. 
It answers well, in particular, for pasting into books 
the copies of writings taken offby copyiug-machiiMS 
on unsized silver paper. 

With this composition, made with a comparative- 
ly small quantity of water, that it may have the con- 
sistence similar to plastic clay, models, busts, sta- 
tues, basso-relievos, and the like, may be formed. 
When dry, the articles made of it are susceptible of 
a high polish ; they are also very durable. 

The Japanese make quadrille fish of this sub- 
stance, which so nearly resembles those made of 
mother of pearl, that theoflicers of our East India- 
men are often imposed upon. 



CEM£NTo. 11^ 

184. ^'^rkey Cement for joining Metals^ Glass^^rc, 

The jewellers in Turkey, who are mostly Arme- 
nians, have a curious method of ornamenting watch 
cases, and similar things, with diamonds and other 
stones, .by simply glueing them on* The stone is set 
in silver or gold, and the lower part of the metal 
made flat, or to correspond with the part to which it 
is to be fixed : it is then warmed gently, and the 
glue applied, which is so very strong that the parts 
never separate. This glue, which may be applied 
to many purposes, as it will strongly join bits of glass 
or polished steel, is thus made : 

Dissolve five or six bits of mastic, as large as 
peas, in as much spirits of wine as will suffice to 
render it liquid ; in another vessel dissolve as much 
isinglass (which has been previously soaked in wa- 
ter till it is swollen and soft) in French brandy or in 
•rum, as will make two ounces by measure, of strong 
glue, and add two small bits of gum-galhanum, or 
ammoniacum, which must be rubbed or ground till 
they are dissolved ; then mix the whole with a suf- 
ficient heat. Keep it in a phial, stopped ; and when 
it is used set it in hot water. 

185. An excellent Cement for Broken China, 

May be made from a mixture of equal parts of 
glue, white of egg, and white lead. 

186« Cement to mend broken China or Glass* 

Garlic stampt in a stone mortar ; the juice where- 
of, when applied to the pieces to be joined together, 
is the finest and strongest cement for that purpose, 
and will leave little or no mark if done with care. 

1 87« To prepare a Cement for joining broken Glass, 

China, Earthenware, ^c. 

Take two ounces of good glue, and steep it for a 
night in distilled vinegar ; boil them together the 
next day, and having beaten a clove of garlic, with 



120 CEMENTS. 

half an ounce of ox-gall, into a soft pulp, strain th^ 
juice through a linen cloth, using pressure, and add 
the same to the glue and the vinegar. Then take 
gum sandarach powdered, and turpentine, of each 
one dram, and ofsarcocol and mastic powdered, 
each half a dram, and put them into a hottle with 
an ounce of highly rectified spirits of wine. Stop 
the bottle, and let the mixture stand for three bouri 
in a gentle heat, frequently shaking it; Mix this tinc> 
ture also with the glue while hot, and stir them well 
together with a stick or tobacco pipe, till part of 
the moisture be evaporated ; then take the compo- 
sition from the fire, and it will be fit for use. When 
this cement is to be applied, it must be dipt in vine- 
gar, and then melted in a proper vessel, with a gen- 
tle heat ; and if stones are to be cemented, it is pro- 
per to mix with it a little powdered tripoli or chalk ; 
or if glass is to be conjoined, powdered glass should 
be substituted. 

For the uniting the parts of broken china, or ear- 
thenware vessels, as also glass, where the rendering 
the joint visible is not of consequence, the following 
composition, which is much more easily prepared, 
may be substituted for the foregoing. 

Take an ounce of Suffolk cheese, or any other 
kind devoid of fat, grate it as small as possible, and 
put it, with an equal weight of quicklime, into three 
ounces of skimmed milk ; mix them thoroughly to* 
gether, and use the composition immediately. 

Where the broken vessels are for service* only, 
and the appearance is not to be regarded, the joints 
may be made equally strong with any other part of' 
the glass, by putting a slip of thin paper, or lineo, 
smeared with this cement, over them, after they are 
well joined together by it. This method will make 
a great saving in the case of glasses employed for 
chemical, or other similar operations. 

A cement of the same nature may be made by 
tempering quicklime with the curd of milk, till it be 



CEMEI7TS. * 121 

of a due consiateDce for use. The curd, in this case, 
should be as free as possible from the cream or oil 
of the milk^ On this account it should be made of 
milk from which the cream has been welt skimmed 
ofi^ orlhe kind of curd commonly sold in the mark- 
ets, made of whey, and the milk from which butter 
has been extracted, commonly called butter-milk. 
This cement should be used in the same manner as 
the preceding, and they may be applied to stones, 
marble, &c. with equal advantage as the compound 
one above given, an^ is much more easy and cheap- 
ly prepared. 

Drying oil, with white lead, id also frequently 
used for cementing china and earthenware ; but 
where it is not necessary the vessels should endure 
heat or moisture, isinglass glue, with a little tripoli 
or chalk is better. 

188. To stop Cracks in Glass Vessds. 

The cracks of glass vessels may be mended, by 
daubing them with a suitable piece of linen over 
with white of egg, strewing both over with finely 
powdered quicklime, and instantly applying the 
UDen closely and evenly. 

189. Cement for preserving Wood and Brick. 

This composition is formed of the following ma- 
terials, viz. mineral or coal tar, pulverized coal, 
(charcoal is esteemed the best) and fine well-slack- 
ed lime ; the coal and lime to be well mixed toge- 
ther, proportioned at about four- fifths coal and one- 
fifth lime : the tar to be heated, and while hot thick- 
ened with the mixture of coal and lime, until it be* 
comes so hard that it may be easily spread upon the 
surface of a board, and not run when hot. Turpen- 
tine or pitch will answer nearly as well as tar, and 
plaster of Paris will answer instead of lime ; to be 
med in the same manner, and in about the same pro- 

L 



122 CLOTHES. 

portions. The cement must be applied warm, and 
18 found to be used easiest with a trowel. 

190. CtmentforwoodorPaper* 

Dissolve soihe isinglass in a small quantity of gin 
or proof spirit, by a very gentle heat ; and preserve 
it in a bottle for use. 

191* Another ^ 

Dissolve, isinglass two parts, and gum arabic in 
like manner with the preceding, and keep it in a 
bottle for use. 



CHAP. XII. 

CLOTHES. 

{And see Chap, xxxiij. Spots or Stains^ infra.) 

1 92. Receipt for Blacking. 

In three pints of small beer, put two ounces of 
ivory black, and one penny worth of brown sug^r. 
As soon as they boil, put a desert-spoonful of sweet 
oil, and then boil slowly till reduced to a quart- 
Stir it up with a stick every time it is used ; and pot 
it on the shoe with a brush when wanted. 

193. Another, 

Two ounces of ivory black; one tea-spoonfol of 
oil of vitriol, one table-spoonful of sweet oil; and 
two ounces of brown sugar : roll the same into a 
ball, and to dissolve it add half a pint of vinegar* 

194. Another. 

Take ivory black and brown sugarcandy, of each 



CLOTHES. 123 

tvi^o ounces ; ofsweet oil a table-spoonful ; add gra- 
dually thereto a pint of vinegar, cold, and stir Ibc 
whole till gradually incorporated. 

195. Another » 

To one pmt of vinegar add half an ounce of vi- 
triolic acid, half an ounce of copperan, two ounces 
of sugarcand J, and two ounces and a half of ivory 
black : mix the whole well together. 

196. Another. 

Sweet oil, halfan ounce : ivory black and treacle, 
of each half a pound ; gum arabic, halfan ounce; 
vinegar, three pints ; boil the vinegar, and pour it 
hot on the other ingredients. 

197. Another* 

Three ounces of ivory black, one ounce of sugar- 
candy, one ounce of oil of vitriol, one ounce of 
spirits of salts, one lemon, one table-spoonful of 
sweet oil, and one pint of vinegar. — First mix the 
ivory black and sweet oil together, then the lemon 
and sugarcandy, with a little vinegar to qualify the 
blacking, then add your spirits of salts and vitriol, 
.'And mix them all well together. 

N; B. — The last ingredients prevent the vitriol 
and salts from injuring the leather, and udd to the 
Jttstre of the blacking. 

198. Another. 

^ Ivory black, two ounces ; brown sugar, one ounce 
and a half; sweet oil, half a table spoonful. Mix 
tbem well, and then gradually add half a pint of 
small beer. — Proved. 

1 99. Another. 

A quarter of a pound of ivory black, a quarter of 
a pound of moist sugar, a table-spoonful of flour, a 
piece of tallow about the size of a walnut, and a 



1 24 CLOTHES* 

small piece of gam arabic. — Make a paste of the 
flour, and while hot put id the tallow, then the su- 
gar, and afterwards mix the whole well together in 
a quart of water, and jou will have a beautiful shin- 
ing blacking. 

200. Blacking Balls for Shoes. 

Mutton suet, four ounces, bees'- wax one ounce, 
gugarcandy and gum-arabic, one dram eacb^ in 
fine powder ; melt these well together over a gentle 
(ire, and add thereto about a spoonful of turpentine, 
and ivory and lamp bllck, sufficient to give it a 
good black ; while hot enough to run, you may 
make it into a ball, by pouring the liquor into a tin 
mould ; or let it stand till almost cold, you may 
mould it in what form you please by the hand. 

201. A celebrated Blacking Cake for Boots and 

Shoes, 

Take one part of gum tragacanth, four parts of 
river water, two parts of neats'-foot or some other 
softening, lubricating oil, two parts of superfine 
ivory black, one part of Prussian blue in fine pow- 
der, or indigo, four parts of brown sugarcandy; 
boil the mixture ; and when the composition is of a 
proper consistence, let it be formed into cakes of 
such a size that each cake may make a pint of li- 
quid blacking. 

^02. Easy Method of cleaning Boots and Shoes in 
the Winter-time, so as to prevent soiling the Per* 
son^ the Clothes, or the Mouse. 

Whcn4he boots or shoes are covered with dirt, 
take them off, and with the back of a case-knife, 
or a piece of wood cut thin at the edges like a sta- 
tioner's paper-knife, scrape the dirt off with the 
same as clean as possible, which will be very eas- 
ily done while the boots and shoes are wet. Then, 
with a small piece of wet sponge or flannel, wipe 



CLOTHES. l^if 

off the remaining dirt which the pressure of the 
knife cannot effect. Then place them in a drj room, 
or at a convenient distance from the fire, for a few 
hourS) and they will take the blacking remarkably 
well, and bear as fine a polish as they did before 
wetting. If proper attention is paid to this process, 
the fingers will scarcely be soiled, and much trouble 
will be .saved by the extra brushing required when 
the dirt is suffered to dry on. 

303. Genuirnf Preparation of the Famous Chemical 
Liquid for Boot Tops, <J/-c. 

Many of the liquids, sold under various denomi- 
nations, for the purpose of cleaning and restoring 
the colour of boot tops, &c. are found very imper- 
fectly to answer that purpose, and often to injure the 
leather. The following genuine receipt may be 
fully relied on, for actually producing this desirable 
effect ; as well as for readily taking out grease, ink 
spots, and the stains occasioned by the juice of 
(rait, red port wine, &c. from, all leather or parch- 
ment. — Mix in^a phial, one dram of oxymuriate of 
potash with two ounces of distilled water; and, 
when the salt is dissolved, add two ounces of muri- 
atic acid. Then, shaking well together, in another 
Ehial three ounces of rectified spirit of wine with 
alf an ounce of the essential oil of lemon, unite the 
contents of the two phials, and keep the chemical 
liquid thus prepared closely corked for use. This 
cbetnical liquid should be applied with a clean 
sponge, and dried in a gentle beat ; after which, the 
boot tops may be polished with a proper brush, so 
asjto appear like new leather. 

204. To clean Boot Tops^ or any Tanned Leather. 

Boil one quart of miik, let it stand till cold ; then 
take one ounce ofoil of vitriol ; one ounce of s^pirits 
of salts ; shake them well together: and add one 

L2 



126 CLOTHES* 

ounce of red lavender. You may put half a pint of 
vinegar, with the white of an egg beat to a froth* 

205. To prevent Shoes from taking in Wetter. 

One pint of drying oil, two ounces of yellow 
wax, two ounces of turpentine, and half on ounce of 
Burgundy pitch, melted carefully over. a slow fire. 
If new boots or shoes are rubbed with this mixture, 
either in the sun-shine or at some distance from the 
fire, with a sponge or soft brush, and the operation 
is repeated as often iSa they become dry. till the lea- 
ther is fully saturated) they will be imperviotis to 
wet, and will wear much longer, as well as acquir- 
ing a softness and pliaibility that will prevent the 
leather from ever shrivelling. 

Jfoie. — Shoes or boots prepared as above ought 
not to be worn till perfectly dry and elastic, other- 
wise their durability would rather be prevented than 
increased. 

206. To prevent Snow Water or Rain from penetral' 
ing the Soles of Shoes or Boots in Winter, 

This simple and effectual remedy is nothing mor^ 
than a little bees'- wax and mutton auet, warmed in 
a pipkin, until in a liquid state ; then rub some of it 
slightly over the edges of the sole where the stitches 
are, which will repel the wet, and not in the least 
prevent the blacking from having its usual effect. 

207. To restore the lustre of Gold or Silver Lace^ 

when tarnished^ 

When gold or silver lace happens to be tarnish- 
ed, the best liquor that can be used for restoring its 
lustre is spirits of wine ; it should be warmed be- 
fore it is applied to the tarnished spot. This appli- 
cation will preserve the colour of the silk or em- 
broidery. 



CLOTHES. 1 ^ 

208* To clean Gilt Buckles or Toys. 

Rufi^a little soap on a soft brush, dip the same in 
water, andgentlj brush the article you intend clean- 
ing for a minute or two^ then wash the same clean 
jO0, wipe it and place it near the fire till it is perfect- 
ly dry, then burn a piece of bread, pound it to a 
one powder, and brush your articles with it as you 
do silver goods with whitening. 

209. A black Varnish for Gentlemen^s old Straw or 

Chip Hats. 

Take best black sealing-wax, half an ounce ; rec- 
tified spirit of wine, two ounces ; powder the seal- 
ing-wax, and put it, with the spirit ot wine, into -a 
four ounce phial ; digest them in a sand heaf, or 
near a fire, till the wax is dissolved ; lay it on warm 
with a fine soft hair-brush, before a fire, or in the 
sun. It gives a good stifihess to old straw hats, and 
a beautiful gloss equal to. new, and resists wet. If 
the hats are very brown they may be brushed over 
with writing ink, and dried before the varnish is ap- 
plied. Spirit of turpentine may probably be used in 
the place of the spirit of wine. 

210. To%prevent Gentlemen* s Hats from being spot- 

ted after a shower of Rain. 

If your hat is wet from rain, or any other cause, 
shake it out as much as possible ; then with a clean 
linen cloth or handkerchief wipe the hat very care- 
fully as well as you can, observing, that in so doing 
you keep the beaver flat and smooth, in the same 
direction as it was first placed, then with your hands 
fix it in the original shape, and hang it at a distance 
from the fire to dry. A few hours after, or the next 
morning, lay the hat on a table, and brush it round 
and round several times with a soft brush in the pro- 

{ler direction, and you will find your hat not in the 
east injured by the rain. 



138 OLOTflES. 

Iftbe gloss is not quite so high as you wish, take 
a flat iron, moderately heated, and pass the same 
two or three times gently over the hat : brash it af- 
terwards ; and it will be nearly as handsome as 
when first sent home from the shop. 

21 1 • Preventives against the ravages of the Moth* 

The most usual preventives against the injury 
occasioned by the moth are cedar-wood and tobac* 
CO leaves. A piece of the former put into a box, if 
sufficiently large to emit its peculiar odour to what- 
ever may be contained in it, will effectually pre- 
serve the cloth from injury ; and it is well known, 
that in libraries where there are books bound with 
Russia leather, which is tanned with cedar, no modi 
or worm will corrupt. It is common to put cedar 
shavings and chips into boxes, &c. which will answer 
just as well as the wood itself. 

Tobacco leaves may be placed at certain inter- 
vals in the folds of a piece of woolen cloth ; and it 
is sufficient to examine them once in six months, in 
order to renew the leaves if necessary. 

212. Easy Method of preventing Moths in Furs or 

fVoolens^ 

Sprinkle the furs or woolen stuffs, as well as tbe 
drawers or boxes in which they are kept, with spi- 
rits of turpentine ; the unpleasant scent of which 
will speedily evaporate, on exposure of the stuffi to 
the air. Some persons place sheets of paper, mois- 
tened with spirits of turpentine, over, under, or be- 
tween pieces of cloth, &c. and find it a very effec- 
tual method. 

213. To preserve Furs, Woolens^ <^c. 

Many woolen drapers put bits of camphor, the 
size of a nutmeg, in papers, on different parts of 
their shelves in their shop ; and as they brubh their 
cloths every two, three, or four months, this keeps 



CLOTHES. 129 

them free rrom moths j and this should be done in 
boxes where fursj&c. are put. A tallow candle is 
frequently put within each muff when laid bj. 

214. To keep Moths, Beetles, ^c.from Clothes. 

Put a piece of camphor in a linen bag, or some 
aromatic herbs, in the drawers, among linen or 
woolen clothes, and neither moth or worm will 
come near them. 

215. To purify Wool infested with Insects. 

The process of purificaton consists in putting in- 
to three pints of boiling water a pound and a half of 
alum, and as much cream of tartar, which are di- 
luted in twenty- three joints more of cold water. The 
wool is then left immersed in this liquor during some 
days, after which it is washed and dried. After (his 
operation it will no longer be subject to be attacked 
by insects. 

^16. Chinese methodof rendering Cloth Water-proof 

To one ounce of white wax, melted, add one 
quart of spirits of turpentine, which, when tho- 
rougly mixed and cold, dip the cloth in and hang 
it up to dry. By this cheap and easy method, mus- 
lin, as well as the strongest cloths, will be rendered 
impenetrable to the hardest rains, without the pores 
being filled up, or any injury done, when the cloth 
is coloured. 

217. J^ezD method of cleaning Silks, Woolens and 

Cottons. 

'The following receipt is recommended as a good 
method of cleaning silk, woolen, and cotton goods, 
without damage to the texture or colour of the 
same : , 

Grate raw potatoes to a fine pulp in clean water, 
and pass the liquid matter through a coarse sieve 
into another yesse) of water ; let the mixture stand 



130 CLOTHES. 

f 

still till the fine white particles qf the potatoes are 

{precipitated ; then pour the roucilagioous liqaor 
rom the fecula, and preserve the liqaor for use* 
The article to be cleaned should then be laid upon 
a linen cloth on a table, and having provided a clean 
sponge, dip the sponge in the potatoe liqaor, and 
apply it to the article to be cleaned, till the dirt is 
perfectly separated : then wash it in clean water 
several times. Two middle-sized potatoes will be 
sufficient for a pint of water. The white fecula will 
answer the purpose of tapioca, and make a useful 
nourishing food, with soup or milk, or serve to make 
starch and hair-powder. The coarse pulp, which 
does not pass the sieve, is of great use in cleaning 
worsted curtains, tapestry, carpets, or other coarse 
goods. The mucilaginous liquor will clean all sorts 
of silk, cotton or woolen goods, without hurting or 
spoiling the colour ; it may be also used in cleaning 
oil paintings, or furniture, that is soiled. Dirtied 
painted wainscots may be cleansed by wetting a 
sponge in the liquor ; then dipping it in a little nne 
clean sand, and afterwards rubbing the wainicoat 
with it. 

213, To stop the Rapidity of Flames when the Femalt 
Dress happtns accidentally to take Fire. 

If a woolen cloth was constantly kept in nurse* 
ries and sitting rooms, especially when there are 
fires, laid loose upon a table, or other piece of 
furniture, this being always at hand, might be. easi- 
ly resorted to in case of accident, and being wrapt 
tight round the flames, or strongly pressed against 
them, would, by excluding the air, in many instan- 
ces, soon extinguish the fire. A green baize cloth 
being very pliable, and likewise a neat cover to fur- 
niture, is recommended for this purpose ; and if 
such were known in the family by the name of the 
Stifling Clothf it probably would as readily be used 



CLOTHES. 131 

when there was occasion for it, as fire engines and 
buckets are now. Care must be taken to procure 
baize of a close texture. Where the convenience of 
baize cloth cannot be easily procured, as in cot- 
tages, &c. a cloth cloak, riding-coat, or blanket, 
will answer much the same purpose. A roan's coat 
will always be useful ; and the first man that arrives 
ought to apply it. 

219. To prevent Clothes from Catching Fire. 

One of the most evident methods to prevent 
clothes from catching fire, is, to have wire fenders 
placed before the fire-place, of a sufficient height, 
to hinder the coals from flying into the room ; such 
fenders are so placed in some parlours, but more, it 
18 believed, for protecting the marble hearth and 
carpet, than for the safety of the females and chil- 
dren of the family. Wire screens are sometimes 
placed in rooms where birds are let loose, parallel 
to the fire-place ; such as these, if more projecting 
ones s()ould be objected to, might be used in com- 
mqn sitting-rooms. One or two strong metal bars 
would be some protection,if close wire-work should 
not be liked ; these, of course, should come some 
way forward, otherwise they would not be of much 
use. Certainly the safest are fenders of close wire- 
^rk, projecting into the room, sufficiently open to 
let the heat through, but not any coals which might 
fly from the fire. Nurseries in particular, should 
have this sort. 

220. Permanent Ink for marking Linen. 

Take of lunar caustic, (now called argentum m- 
trattun) one dram; weak solution, or tincture of 
galls, two drams. The cloth must be first wetted 
with the following liquid, viz. salt of tartar, one 
ounce ; water, one ounce and a half; and must be 
perfectly dry before any attempt is made to write 
upon it. 



132 CLOTHES. 

321. Another. 

Disssolve one dram of lunar caustic, or fused ni- 
trate of silver, which is sold by the chemists for a- 
bout 4d. in less than half an ounce of pure water, 
or water into which a drop or two of nitric acid has 
fallen. Add as much clear solution of gum arahic 
as will enable you to write freely ; and the mixture 
will soon beconrie opaque, of a dark greenish hue. 
A little charcoal, or rather indigo, ground very ine, 
may be added, to make the traces of the letters 
more visible as you form them, for otherwise tbej 
would not be very distinct unless written in the sun, 
or a strong light. But this is in part answered by 
the dark hue given to the gum. 

222. Another. 

Pour about twenty-five parts of boiling water 
over one part of quick- lime and two of soda. In 
the clear weak ley obtained by filtration or depos- 
itation, dissolve a little isinglass, or the scraped epi- 
dermis of the skin, and add as much soda in powder 
as was used for the ley ; isinglass, or even glue, 
dissolved in water, will answer ; but the colour is 
not so brilliant, and the solution soon putrifies ; — 
that made with soda will keep for years. 

Wet thorougly with the solution of isinglass the 
part of the cloth which is to be marked ; dry it well 
and smooth it with a bit of silver or glass : then 
write lightly with a clean pen, and expose the writ- 
ing for a mipute to the sun, or a short time to the 
day -light. The superfluous glue should not be wash- 
ed out till the next day. 

if there be too much nitrat in the ink it will be 
apt to run or blot. In that case dilute it with clear 
gum-water. If there be too little nitrat the iak 
will be pale ; then drop a small bit of the fused 
nitrat into the vial. 

The caustic must be lifted in paper or with the 



CLOTHES. 133 

points of the scissars, as before it is dissolved it burns 
the fingers ; and even the solution makes an in- 
delible stain on the skin and nails. 

The ink bottle should be wrapped in strong pa- 
per, or kept in a dark place, and not exposed for 
any long time to the sun or light. 

223. To perfume Linen. 

Rose leaves dried in the shade, cloves beat to a 
powder, and mace scraped : mix them together, and 
put the composition into little bags. 

224. To raise the Surface or Pile of Velvet when 

Pressed down. 

Warm a smoothing-iron ^noderately, and cover it 
with a wet cloth, and hold it under the velvet ; the 
vapour arising from the heated cloth will raise the 
pile of the velvet, with the assistance of a rush 
whisk.. 

225. To prevent Danger from Wei Clothes. 

Keep if possible in motion, and take care not to 
go near a fire or into any very warm place, so as to 
occasion a sudden heat, till' some time after you 
have been able to procure dry clothes. 

226* Useful Hints relative to Bedclothes, Mattrass* 

es, Cushions, c^c. 

The purity of feathers and wool employed for 
mattrasses and cushions ought to be considered as 
a first object of salubrity. Animal emanations may, 
under many circumstances, be prejudicial to the 
health ; but the danger is still greater when the 
wool is impregnated with sweat, and the excremen- 
titious parts of persons who have experienced pu- 
trid and contagious diseases. Bedclothes and the 
wool of mattrasses, therefore, cannot be too often 
beat, carded, cleaned, and washed. This is a cau- 
tion which cannot too often be recommended. 



134 CLOTHES. 

It wocild be very easy in most situations, and very 
effectual, to fumigate them with muriatic gas* 

227, To clean Silk Stockings. 

Wash your stockings first in white soap liquofi 
lukewarm, take out the rough dirt ; then rinse 
them in fair water, and work them well in a fresh 
soap liquor. Then make a third soap liquor, pretty 
strong, in which put a little stone blue, wrapped in 
a flannel bag, till your liquor is- blue enough ; then 
wash your stockings well therein, and take them cot 
and wring them. Then let them be dried so that 
they may remain a little moist ; then stove them with 
brimstone, after which, put upon the wood leg two 
stockings, one upon the other, observing that the 
two fronts, or outsides, are face to face, then polish 
them with a glass. 

N. B. The two first soap liquors must be only 
lukewarm, the third soap liquor as hot as you can 
bear your hand in it. 

Blonds and gauzes are whitened in the same 
manner, only a little gum is put in the soap liqoor 
before they are stoved. 

228, Preservative from Moths in Clothes or Books. 

Get some narrow slips of the best Russia leather, 
and lay the same indiscriminately among the clothes, 
books, &c« The leather may be procured at any 
bookbinder's in town, and a pound, which will last -* 
a long time, costs about a shilling. This will have 
the desired effect, it having been frequently used 
with great success. 

229. Composition for restoring Scorched Linen. 

Boil, to a good consistency, in half a pint of vine* 

Sar, two ounces of fullers earth, an ounce of hen^t 
ung, half an ounce of cake soap, and the juice of 
two onions. Spread this composition over the whole 
of the damaged part ; and, if the scorching were not 



CLOTHES. 135 

^uite through, and the threads actually consumed, 
after suffering it to dry on, abd letting it receive a 
subsequent good washing or two, the plac^ will ap- 
pear full as white and perfect as any oth^r part of 
the linen. 

230. Vulgar Error respecting the putting of Spirits 
into the Boots or Shoes to prevent the Effects of Cold. 

The custom of pouring brandy into the boots or 
shoes, when the feet have got wet, with a view to 
prevent the effect? of cold, is a practice which 
(though very common) is founded in prejudice and 
misconception, and often proves fatal, by bringing 
On inflammation and consequent obstruction in the 
bowels. This practice is adopted on the supposition 
that, because spirits, when swallowed, excite an uni- 
versal warmth and restore the circulation in the Ex- 
tremities, they must do the same when applied to the 
extremities themselves. But the reverse happens. 
Fluids, when evaporating, produce cold ; and the 
lighter or more spirituous the fluid, the more quick- 
ly it evaporates, and the greater the degree of cold 
generated. This may be proved by a very simple 
experiment. If one hand be wetted with spirit 
and the other with water, and both are held up to 
dry in the air, the hand wetted with spirit will ieel 
infinitely colder than the other; or if the bulbs of 
two thermometers be so treated, the mercury will 
be observed to fall much more rapidly and exten- 
sively in the one case than in the other. Whatever 
danger, therefore, arises from cold or damp feet, it 
is generally enhanced by the practice alluded to. 
If such a remedy is to be at all employed, it ought, 
ODdoubtedly, to be taken into the stomach. 



136 CVRIOSITIES* 

CHAPTER XIII. 

i 

* 

CURIOSITIES. 



231 . S(r Ashion Lever^s Method of preserving Birds 

and Beasts.. 

Beasts. — Lai^e beasts should be carefully skin- 
ned,-witb the horns, skull, jaw9, tail, and feet, left 
entire ; the skins may then either be put into a ves- 
sel of spirit, or else rubbed well in the inside with 
the mixture of >alt, alum, and pepper, hereafter 
mentioned, and hung to dry. Small beasts may bq 
put into a cask of rum, or any other spirit. 

J3iRDS. — Large birds may be treated as large 
beasts, but must not be put in spirits. Small birds 
may be preserved in the following manner : — take 
out the entrails, open a passage to the brain, which 
should be scooped out through the mouth ; intro- 
duce into the cavities of the skull, and the whole bo- 
dy, some of the mixture of salt, alum, and pepper, 
putting some through the gullet and whole length of 
the neck ; then hang the bird in a cool airy place, 
first by the feet, that the body may be impregnated 
by the salts, and afterwards by a thread through 
the under mandible of the bill, till it appears to be 
sweet, then hang it in the sun, or near a fire ; after 
it is well dried, clean out what remains loose of 
the mixture, and fill the cavity of the body with 
wool, oakum, or any soft substance,, and pack it 
smooth in paper. 

Fishes, &c. — Large fishes should be opened in 
the belly, the entrails taken out, and the inside 
well rubbed with pepper, and stofied with oakum* 
Small fishes put uk spirit, as well as reptiles and in- 
sects, except butterflies and moths, and any insects 



DAtRT. 137 

of fine colours, should be pinaed down io a box pre- 
pared for that parpoAC, with their wings expanded. 

332. Birds shot in this kingdom. 

When fresh killed, observe to put tow into the 
jDOutb, and upon any wound they may hsfV^e receiv- 
ed, to prevent the feathers being soiled ; and then 
wrap it smooth, at full length, in paper, and pack 
it close in a box. If it be sent from a great distance, 
the entrails should be extracted, and the cavity 
filled with tow dipt in rum or other spirit. The 
following mixture is proper for the preservation of 
animals : one pound of salt, four ounces of alum, 
and two ounces of pepper, powdered together. 

233. Rules j or collecting curiosities on Sea Voyages* 

Set apart a small cask of spirits, into which put 
every uncommon sea production you may meet with 
during the voyage, and wrap every article separate 
in a rag or a little oakum* 



CHAPTER XIV. 

DAIRT. 



234. Proper temperature for a Dairy. 

The apartments appropriated for dairy purposes 
should, if possible, possess a moderate temperature 
throughout the year, and should be kept perfectly 
clean and dry. The temperature of about fifty-five 
degrees is most favourable for the separation of the 
cream from the milk. The utensils of the dairy are 
best made of wood ; lead and copper are soluble in 
acid, and highly pernicious. ; and though iron is not 

M2 . 



138 DAIRY. 

injuvioas, the taste of it might render the prodace of 
the dairy unpalatable. 

235. Rules for milking Cows. 

Cows should be milked three times a day, if fully 
fed, throughout the summer ; and great caution 
should be exercised by the persons erAployed, to 
draw the milk from them completely, not only to 
increase the quantity of produce, put to preserve its 
quality. Any portion which may be leit in the ud- 
der seems gradually to be absorbed into the system» 
and no more is formed than enough to supply the 
loss of what is taken away ; and, by the continu- 
ance of the same mode, a yet farther diminution of 
the secretion takes place, until at length scarcely 
any is produced. This last mode of milking is 
always practised when it is intended that a covr 
should be rendered dry. 

r 

236. Method of making excellent Butter from the 
Milk of Cows fed upon Turnips. 

Let the bowls, either lead or wood, be kept con- 
stantly clean, and well scalded with boiling water, 
before using. ^ When the milk is brought into the 
dairy, to every eight quarts mix one quart of boiling 
water ; then put up the milk into the bowls to stand 
for cream. By keeping strictly to this method, 
you will have, during the winter, constantly sweet 
and well-tasted butter from the milk of cows fed up- 
on turnips. 

237. Improved Method of Making Butter. 

If the dairv consist of three or four cows they 
should be milked in the summer thrice a day ; in the 
morning, at nobn,and in the evening. Each milkine 
must be kept by itself, in flat wooden vessels, to cool 
in like manner ; and thus in succession for two or 
three days, according to the temperature of the air, 
the milk thickening, and thence is fit for churning-, 



DAiRr. 139 

soonest in the warmest weather* The quantity of 
butter will be generally in the proportion ofa pound 
(twenty-two ounces) for each ten pints, or five 
English gallons of milk. In winter the cows are 
to be milked only twice a day, and the milk is to 
be put into the churn warm from (he cow, where i( 
must stand a day or two longer than in summer be- 
fore it becomes sufficiently thick ; although, to pro- 
mote the coagulation, it is sometimes brought near 
the kitchen fire, particularly on the preceding 
night before it is churned ; and, in intense cold, it 
will be necessary to add a small quantity of boiling 
water. The operation of churning is performed 
with the plunge churn, froYn two to three hours, for 
thirty or forty pints of milk ; and at the last stage 
of the process, a little cold water thrown in has the 
effect of promoting the separation of the butter 
from the milk, and making it twice a day : and 
even before the cloth is taken off, the top and bot« 
toni are well rubbed every day. 

N. B. The dairy-maid niust not be dishearten- 
ed, if she does not succeed perfectly in her first 
attempt. 

338. Dr. AndersoYt^s method of keeping Milk 

and Butter. 

The pernicious method of keeping milk in leaden 
vessels, and salting butter in stone jars, begins to 

Sin ground in this country, as well as elsewhere, 
»m an idea of cleanliness. The fact is, it is just 
the reverse of cleanliness ; for, in the bands of a 
careful person, nothing can be more cleanly than 
wooden dishes, but under the management of a 
slattern, they discover the secret, Which stone 
dishes do not. 

In return, these latter communicate to the butter, 
and the milk, which has been kept in them, a poi- 
sonous quality, which inevitably proves destructive 



140 DUTILLINO. 



to the human constitution. To the prevalence of 
this practice, I have no doubt (says the doctor) we 
must attribute the frequency of palsies, which be- 
gin to prevail so much in this kingdom ; for the 
well known effect of the poison of lead is, bodilj 
debility, palsy, death! 



CHAPTER XV. 

DISTILLING. 

239. A cheap Refrigerator or Condenser. 

A short, somewhat flat, vessel, two yards in 
length, nine square feet surface, with the same 
quantity of cold water, has a greater cooling pow- 
er than a worm of five spiral turns and six yards 
length ; and if there he a small pipe to connect 
the still and the condenser, the condensing water 
will continue cold a fnuch longer time. 

240. To try the Purity of Spirits. 

See if the liquor will burn away without leaving 
any moisture behind. As spirit is much lighter 
than water, place a hollow ivory ball in it ; the 
deeper the ball sinks, the lighter the liquor, and 
consequently more spirituous. 

241. To cure Spirituous Liquor of bad Flavour^ 

If common raw spirits be agitated with charcoil, 
they will be deprived of their bad flavour ; but if 
kept in the cask long afterwards, are very apt to 
resume the old flavour. 



DISTILLING* 141 

242. Improvement of SmelLand Taste of common 

Ardent Spirits. 

By distilling eight ounces of common ardent 
spirits (corn or malt spirits) overone ounce ofchar* 
coal powder, the smell and taste are considerably 
iQaproved. 

243. To improve the Flavour of Malt Spirits. 

The flavour of malt spirits is said to be highly 
improved, by putting three ounces and a half of 
finely powdered charcoal, and four ounces and a 
half of ground rice, into a quart of spirits, and 
letting it stand during fifteen days, frequently stir- 
ring it ; then let the liquor be strained, and it will 
be found nearly of the same flavour as brandy. 

244. Expeditious method of Distilling simple Wa» 

ters. 

Tie a piece of muslin, or gauze, over a glazed 
earthen pot, whose mouth is just large enough to 
receiv'e the bottom of a warming-pan ; on this cloth 
lay your herb clipped, whether mint, lavender, or 
wnatever else you please ; then place upon them 
the hot warming-pan, with live coals in it to cause 
heat just enough to prevent burning, by which 
means, as the steam issuing out of the herb cannot 
mount upwards, by reason of the bottom of the pan 
just fitting the brim of the vessel below it, it must 
necessarily descend, and collect into w^ter at the 
bottom of the receiver, and that strongly impreg- 
nated with the essential oil and salt of the vegeta- 
ble thus distilled ; which, if you want to make 
spirituous, or compound water of, is easily done, 
by simply adding some good spirits, orFrench bran- 
dy to it, which will keep good for a long time, and 
be much better than if the spirits had passed through 
a still, which must of necessity waste some of their 
strength. Care should be taken not to let the fire 



I 



142 DiStlLLINO. 

be too strong, lest it scorch the plants ; and to be 
made of charcoal, for continuance and better re- 
gulation, which must be managed by lifting up and 
laying down the lid, as you want to increase or de- 
crease the degrees of heat. The deeper the earths 
en pan, the cooler the season ; and the less fire at 
first (afterwards to be gradually raised,) in the great- 
er perfection will the distilled water be obtained. 

As the more moveable, or volatile parts of vege- 
tables, are the aqueous, the oily, the gummy, (he 
resinous, and the saline, these are to be expected 
in the waters of this process ; the beat here em- 
ployed being so great as to burst the vessels of the 
plants, some of which contain so large a quantity 
of oil, that it may be seen swimming on the surface 
of the water. 

Medical waters thus procured will afford us near- 
ly all the native virtues of vegetables, and give us 
a mixture of their several principles, whence they 
in a manner come up to the expressed juice or ex- 
tract gained therefrom: and if brandy be at the 
same time added to these distilled waters, so strong 
of oil and salt, a compound, or spirituous water, 
may be likewise procured, at a cheap and easy rate. 

Although a small quantity only of distilled water 
can be obtained at a time by this combined opera- 
tion, yet it compensates in strength what is defi- 
cient in quantity. 

Such liquors, if well corked up from the air, will 
keep good a long time, especially if about a twen- 
tieth part of any spirits be added, in order to pre- 
serve the same more efiectually. 



DOMESTIC ECONOMV. 143 

CHAPTER XVI. 

DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 



245. To pxirify infectiom jlir in a Room* 

Fumigate the apartment with muriatic acid gas, 
or with a little oxymuriatic gas. Care must be 
taken not to inhale the oxymuriate, as it is poison. 

246« To preserve Fish and Meat in the Portuguese 

Manner, 

The Portuguese make a trade of what they call 
ptsche molicB^ which is fish Cut in small pieces, with 
salt and sugared tamarind. Fish thus preserved 
iBay be carried to sea, and will not be found too 
salt. Meat may also be thus preserved, by throwing 
away the stones and strings of the tamarinds, and 
adding a small portion of Cayenne pepper. 

247. Easy Method of preserving Animal Food sweet 
for several days in the height of Summer. 

Veal, mutton, beef, or venison, may be kept for 
nine or ten days perfectly sweet and good, in the 
heat of summer, by lightly covering the same with 
brao, and hanging it in a high and windy room % 
therefore, a cupboard full of small holes, or a wire 
safe, so as the wind may have a passage through, is 
recommended to be placed in such a room, to keep 
away the flies. 

248. To preserve Game in Hot Weather. 

Game or poultry may be preserved for a long 
time, by tying a string tight round the neck, so as to 
exclude the air, and by putting a piece of charcoal 
into the vent. 



144 DOMESTIC ECONOMY* 

249. To preserve Meat by Treacle* 

This experiment has been successfully tried in 
the following manner : — A gentleman put a piece of 
beef into treacle, and turned it often. At the end of 
a month he ordered it to be washed and boiled, 
and had the pleasure to find it quite good, and more • 
pleasant than the same piece would have been in 
salt for that time* But the expense of this metttod 
must confine it to the opulent. 

250. To preserve Beef and Mutton^ In a sound statCf 

a voyage to the West Indies, 

* As soon as the meat is cold it must be cut. up in 
quarters, and sprinkled with the following ingredi- 
ents : lignum vitae, in fine chips, one ppund ; com- 
mon salt, four ounces ; coarse sugar, four ounces ; 
salt prunella, half an ounce : when it has been well 
sprinkled in, close the whole in sheet lead, lay it in 
a chest, and fill it with fresh saw-dust. Meat to 
prepared has been kept two months in the finest 
order. When taken out to be dressed it should be 
wiped and scraped clean, and roasted as quick at 
possible. 

25 1 . The useful properties of Charcoal^ for sweeten- 
ing the Breath, cleaning the Teeth^ ire* 

All sorts of glass vessels and other utensils may 
be purified from long retained smells of every kind, 
in the easiest and most perfect manner, by rinsing 
them out well with charcoal powder, after the gros* 
ser impurities have been scoured off with sand and 
potash. Rubbing the teeth, and washing out the 
mouth, with fine charcoal powder, will render the 
teeth beautifully white, and the breath perfectly 
sweet, where an offensive breath has been owing to 
a scorbutic disposition of the gums. Putrid water is 
immediately deprived of its offensive smell by 
charcoal* 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 146 

S52. To sweeten Meat, Fish^ ^c. that is tainted. 

When meat, fish, Sic. from intense heat, or long 
keeping, are likely to pass into a state of corruption, 
a simple and pure mode of keeping them sound and 
healthful is by putting a few pieces of charcoal, each 
the size of an egg, into the pot or saucepan, where- 
in the fish or flesh are to be boiled* Among others, 
an experiment of this kind was tried upon a turbot, 
which appeared to be too far gone to be eatable : 
the cook, as advised, put three or four pieces of 
charcoal, each the size of an egg, under the strain- 
er, in the fish kettle ; after boiling the.proper time, 
the turbot came to table perfectly sweet and firm. 

353« To furify fiy -blown Meat. 

It has been successfully proved, by many experi- 
ments, that meat entirely ny-blown, has been suf- 
ficiently purified to make good broth, and had not 
a disagreeable taste, by being previously put into a 
vessel containing a certain quantity of beer. The 
liquor will become tainted, and have a putrid smell. 

354. To cure tainted Fish. 

Tainted fish may be much restored to its proper 
flavour by mixing a quantity of vinegar an^ salt in 
the water in which the fish is to be boiled. 

255. To preserve Water and Meat^from Putrefac- 
tion^ in long Voyages. 

The crews of the two Russian ships, which lately 
sailed round the world, were extremely healthy. 
Daring the whole three years of their voyage only 
two men died of the crew of the Neva, and the Na- 
vesbadid not lose a single man. It is already known 
that their fresh water was preserved in charred 
casks, but it is not so generally known that they us- 
ed the same precaution for preserving their sailed 
provisions. The beef they carried out with them 

N 



]46 DOMESTIC ECONOMY, 

lasjted aspleasantly'upoD their retam, as it did three 
years before, when first salted. 

256. To detect Dampness in a Bed. 

Let your bed be first Well warmed, and imi&edi- 
ately as the warming-pan is taken out, introduce be- 
tween the sheets, in an inverted direction, a clear 
glass goblet ; after it has remained in that situatioD 
a few minutes, examine it; if found dry, and not 
tarnished with drops of wet, for there will often ap- 
pear a slight cloud of steam, the bed is safe ; but if 
drops of wet or damp adhere to the inside of the 
glass, it is a certain sign of a damp bed. Even 
wearing apparel, when on the person, will in most 
parts of England, by the applicatipn of a warming- 
pan, stain glass with a slight steam, but not drops of 
wet. Or, take oflfthe sheets and sleep in the blank- 
ets. 

357. Hints on Warming Btdsm 

In taking the coals into the warming-pan, remove 
therefrom any black coals in a burning state, and 
scatter upon those in the pan a little common salt ; 
this will correct the unhealthy sulphurious vapour 
of the coals, and prevent their suffocating smelL 

258. * Beef Tea. 

Take lean beef, a pound, cut it in thin slices, pot 
it into a quart of water, boil it a quarter of an hour; 
then take out the meat, mince it small, and boil it a 
quarter of an hour more, skimming it well. 

269. 'Improvement in the Management of Bees. 

The improvement is that of having double skepa 
or hives, the one on thetopoftheother. When the 
lower skep is filled with honey, it is to be removed 
after the bees are admitted (through a passage which 
is made to be opened) into the upper skep ; into 
this skep food must be pot, and the bees will remain 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 147 

there, and go on with their work in it. When it is 
filled with honey, the former ekep, with food in it, 
may be replaced, and the bees again admitted into 
it. The full skep is then to be taken away. . This 
change ef the skeps must always be made about 
Midsummer ; and by thus annually removing the 
full one, more honey will be collected than is usual, 
and the bees will not be destroyed. 

260. Approved J\fethod of removing Bees. 

Set the hive where there is only a glimmering 
light ; turn it up ; the queen first makes her appear- 
ance ; once in possession of her, you are master of 
all the rest ; put her into an empty hive, whither 
she will be followed by the other bees. 

•261. Useful Method of preserving Bees, as lately 

adopted in America. 

Instead of destroying whole swarms in their 
hives, to get the honey when the hives are full, they 
clear them out into a fresh hive, while they take the 
combs out of the old one ; and they prevent their 
perishing in winter by putting a great quantity of 
honey into a very wide earthen vessel, covering its 
surface with paper, exactly fitted on, and pricked 
full of holes with a large pin ; this being pressed by 
the weight of the bees keeps a fresh supply contin- 
ually arising. Their most fatal destruction by se- 
vere cold they prevent, by taking as many large 
tubs as they have hives, and knocking out the 
heads, they set the other end in the ground, laying 
a bed of -Jry earth or chopped hay in it, of six inches 
deep ; over this they place the head knocked out, 
and then make a small wooden trough foK the 
passage of the bees ; this is transfixed through a 
hole cut through each side of the tub, at such a 
height as to lay on the false bottom, on which is 
.placed the covered dish of honey for the food of the 



r 

148 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

bees, leaving a proper ppace over this covered with 
fftroDg matting ; they then fill up the tub with more 
dry earth, or chopped hay, heaping it up in the 
form of a cone, to keep out the rain, and wreathing 
it over with straw on account of the warmth* Thi9 
method is so secure, that out of a hundred tub?, a 
few winters since, when this experiment was tried, 
not one of them was known to fail. The quantity 
of honey this way obtained has been amazing, and 
besides, must every year increase, wherever the 
example is followed. 

262« Chinese Method of mending China* 

Take a piece of flint-glass, beat it to a fine pow»' 
der, and grind it well with the white of an egg, and 
it joins china without rivetting, so that no art can 
break it in the same place. You are to observe, 
that the composition is to be ground extremely fine 
on a painter's stone. 

263. To discover Vitriol in Beer. 

A decoction of galls will turn it blackish, if this 
be the case. 

264. Excellent Substitute for Table Beer. 

As small beer is ^pt to become sour in warm 
weather, a pleasant beer may be made, by adding 
to a botlle of porter ten quarts of water, and a 
pound of brown sugar or molasses. After they have 
been well mixed, pour the liquor into bottles, and 
place them, loosely corked, in a cool cellar. In two 
^ or three days it will be fit for use. A spoonful of 
ginger, added to the mixture, renders it more lively 
and agreeable to the taste. This might be adopted 
in the navy instead of grog. 

26*5. To make good Spmce Beer. 

This cheap and wholesome liquor is thus made : 
take of water sixteen gallons, and boil the half of 



DOMSSTIC ECONOMT* H^ 

it ; put the water thus boiled, while in full heat, to 
the reserved cold part, which should be previously 
put iDto the barrel or other vessel; then add 16 
pounds of treacle or molasses, with a few table- 
spoonfuls of the essence of spruce, stirring the 
whole well together ; add half a pint of yeast, and 
keep it in a temperate situation, with the bung- hole 
op^n, for two days, till the fermentation be abated '; 
then close it up, or bottle it off, and it will be fit to 
drink in a few days afterwards. In NortJt> America, 
9nd perhaps in other countries, where the black and 
white spruce firs abound, instead of adding the es- 
sence of the spruce at the same time with the molas* 
868, they make a decoction of the leaves and small 
branches of these trees, and find the liquor -equally 
gdod. 

It is a powerful antiscorbutic, and may prove ve- 
ry useful in a long sea voyage. 

9iS6. Nezo' Invented Composition to be used instead 

of Yeast. 

To make eight quarts of this composition, boil in 
common water eight quarts of potatoes, as for eat- 
ing ; bruise them perfectly smooth, and mix with 
them, whilst warm, two ounces of honey, or any 
other sweet, and one quart (being the eighth part of 
a gallon of yeast) of common yeast. And, for mak- 
ing bread, mix three beer pints of the above com- 
position with a bushel of flour, using warm water in 
making the bread ; the water to be warmer in win- 
ter than in summer ; and the composition to be used 
in a few hours after it is made ; and as soon as the 
sponge (the mixture of the composition with the 
' flour) begins to fall the first time, the bread should 
be made and put in the oven. 

267. To make Bottles Air tight. 

This may be done without luting -or grinding, and 
consists in only having a groove round the neck, 

N2 



150 POMSSTIC ECOVOlir. 

into which the cap fits, so that the grooTe may -be 
cbaq^ed with water or mercury. 

268. To lodsen the Glass Stopples of Smelling Bot* 

ties and Decanters. 

With a feather rub a drop or two of oliye oil 
round the stopple, close to the mouth of the bottle 
or decanter, which must be then placed before the 
fire, at the distance of a foot or eighteen inches ; in 
which position the heat will cause the oil to spread- 
downward between the stopple and the neck. 
When the bottle ordepanter has grown warm,gentJy 
strike the stopple on one side, and on the other with 
any light wooden instrument ; then try it with the 
hand. If it will not yet move, place it again before 
the fire, adding, if you choose, another drop of oil; 
After a while strike again as before ; and by pene- 
verihg in this process, however tightly the stopple 
may be fastened in, you will at length succeed in 
loosening it. 

269. Another Method, 

Rub the neck of the bottle up and down with a 
small key, hitting the head of the stopper every 
time, which will in general loosen it. 

270. Improved Corks for preserving Wine or 

Chemical Liquors* 

Melt together two parts of white wax and one 
part of beef suet ; dip your corks in this mixturej^ 
and immediately dry them in a stove upon an iron 
plate ; repeat this operation twice, and the corks 
thus prepared will preserve any liquor well without 
imparting any ill flavour thereto. 

27 1 . To judge of the quality of Wheat flour. 

As the state of wheat is ascertained by the quan- 
tity and quality of the glutinous matter it contains, 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 151 

the following method is made use of for extracting 
that matter from it : 

Take four ounces of the flour of wheat, separated 
from the bran : let it be mixed with water so as 
to form a thick paste, which must be thoroughly 
kneaded for a quarter of an hour» The paste is af- 
terwards to be well washed, continually kneading it 
with the hands under the water, and changing the 
water from thne to time. This washing and knead- 
ing are to be continued until the water no longer 
becomes white by the operation ; the glutinous 
matter, which ia of a whitish grey colour, then re- 
mains in the hands. If the wheat was sound the 
matter is glutinous and elastic, if the wheat was 
heated the matter will be brittle, if the wheat was 
iD^a state of fermentation no glutinous matter will b6 
obtained from it. 

272. To discover whether Flour be adulterated with 

Whiteriing or Chalk. 

Mix with the flour some juice of lemon or good 
vinegar ; if the flour be pure they will remain to- 
gether at rest, but if there be a mixture of whitening 
or ehalk, a fermentation, or working like yeast, 
will ensue. T^he adalterated meal is whiter and 
heavier than the good. The quantity that an ordi- 
nary tea-cup will contain has been found to weigh 
more than the quantity of genuine flour by four 
drams and nineteen grains troy. 

273. Another. 

Pour boiling water on some slices of bread, and 
then drop in some spirit of vitriol. This will pro-* 
duce a violent hissing and ebullition, if there be any 
of the above ingredients. For quicker dispatch, the 
fitriol may be poured on the bread itself. Vinegar 
amd juice of lemons will have the same eflect, but 
in a slighter degree. 



16.2 DOMESTIC KCONOUTt 

^74. To discover if Bread is adulterated with Abm^ 

Make a solution of lime in aquafortis, and pat a 
little of this solution into water, in which you oave 
steeped the bread suspected to contain alum. \t 
such should be the case, the acid, which was com* 
biued with the alum, will form a precipitate or 
chalkj concretion at the bottom of the vessel. 

275. To preserve Biscuit from Putrefaction. 

To preserve biscuit a long time sweet and good, 
no other art is necessary than stowing it well baked 
in casks exactly caulked, and carefully lined with 
tin, so as to exclude the air; at the same time the 
biscuit must be so placed as to leave as little vacant 
room as possible in the cask ; and when the same is 
opened through necessity, it most be speedily clos* 
ed again with great care. 

276. Topreserve Sea- bread from the WeeviL 

The fatal efiTects of the weevil in sea-bread, have 
long been severely feltby»8eamen employed on long 
voyages ; rewards have been humanely offered by 
the legislature for a cure or preventive, but hitherto 
without success. 

The following fact was discovered by accident, 
and is now offered to the public as a hint worthy 
the attention of those who may be employed in sop* 
plying ships with provisions, or to captains, and 
the owners of vessels, and may, in all probability, 
les<ten,ifnot wholly remove, an inconvenience so in* 
jurioos to our valuable navigation. A bag belongiDg 
to a powder-mill fell into a quantity of liquid nitre ; 
it was immediately taken out, plunged in cold wa» 
,ter, and hung to dry ; several days after this cir- 
cumstance the bag was filled with sea-biscoits, and 
sent on board a West Indiaman, where it was stow* 
ed away among the captain's 9tock. - The vessel 
was nine months out of England before she proceed* 



DOMESTIC ECONOHT. 153 

ed on het passage home, when she got becalmed, 
and remained so long in that situation that her crew 
was forced to be put on half allowance, more partic* 
ularlj so, as their bread was much destroyed by 
the weevils, and was hourly consuming. The cap- 
tain at this time wishing to make use of the bag a- 
bove mentioned, which had not been opened since 
the ship left England, ordered it to be examined, 
when, greatly to his surprise, the whole contents 
were found to be perfectly sound, without any ap- 
pearance of having been injured by any insect what- 
ever ; a circumstance solely to be attributed to the 
quality of the bag. 

277. To make Artificial orpotatoe Bread. 

Put a pound of potatoes in a net, into a skillet 
with cold water, and (lest the skin break, and let in 
the water) hang it at a distance (so as not to boil) 
over the fire till they become soft ; then skin, mash, 
and rub them so as to be well mixed with a pound of 
flour, a very large spoonful of salt, and two large 
spoonfuls of yeast ; but less of the yeast is better. 
Then add a little warm water, and knead it up as 
other dough ; lay it a little while before the fire to 
ferment or rise, then bake it in a very hot oven. 
Bread made in this manner has been frequently 
tried, and found to be well-tasted, wholesome, and 
dfgood consistence. 

278. Bread made from the Water Gladiole. 

The root of the flowering rueh, or water^ladiole 
when dried and ground, makes a bread but little in- 
ferior in colour, nutriment, or taste, to that made 
from whcaten flour. It is the common food of the 
Calmucs, and in deficient harvests, is used in many 
of the northern parts of the continent. 



154 DOMESTIC JECONOMfr* 

279. Ferment for Breads used by the Inhabitants of 
Long Island in the State of Nero- York, 

Take as many bops as may be held between the 
thumb and three fingers ; put them into a pint and 
a half or a quart of water, and boil them well toge- 
ther. If you have some apples, or a pumpkin, in the 
house, cut a few slices of either of these, and throw 
in, and it will be all the better. Then pour the li- 
quor off, or strain it through a coarse cloth, and add 
three or four spoonfuls of molasses^ and stir in as 
much flour as will mingle with it to the consistence 
of thin batter. Set the whole in the corner of the 
kitchen fire-place, or in any temperature of mode- 
rate warmth, until a fermentation takes place, which 
will happen in a few hours, and then mix it with 
flour. 

This will be sufficient for one baking, for a family 
of eight or ten persons. 

280. A'czo method of making Flour loithout Grain, 

Take turnif s, potatoes, parsnips and white beet ; 
grinil or grate them fine ; then put the substance in- 
to water^ and let it remain therein several bourn : 
then strain ofif the water, and add fresh water ia 
quantity sufficient to cover the substance. Continue 
to repeat this process until the water pours off quite 
clear. Then strain and press the water from the ve- 
gf table substance, which is to be dried on a kiln, or 
other proper convenience. When the substance is 
quite dry, grind it in a corn or other proper mill. 
until it becomes fine flour. Either of the above ve- 
getables alone, or any two or more of them mixed 
together, and prepared as before specified, will an- 
swer for the purpose. The foregoing description is 
for the making coarse or common flour ; when the 
best or fine flour is to be made, pare or peel the rind 
off the vegetables before they are ground or grated. 



DOKKSTIC ECONOMY. 1 55 

Then pursae the same process as with the coarse 
or common flour. 

38 1 • Improved Method of salting Butter and Meat* 

Best common salt two parts, saltpetre one part, 
sugar one part ; beat them up together, so that they 
may be completely blended. To every sixteen 
oonces of butter add one ounce of this composition ; 
mix it well in the mass, and close4t op for use. — It 
should not be used for a month, that it may be tho- 
roughly incorporated. Butter, thus cured, has been 
kept for three years perfectly sweet. Keep the air 
from it, or it spoils. Cover it with an oiled paper, 
and a board on that. 

To cure meat, add one ounce of the above com- 
position to every sixteen ounces of meat. \i must be 
very well rubbed into the meat. You cannot have it 
too finely powdered, nor too well rubbed into the 
meat. 

282. Method of curing bad Tub Butter. 

A quantity of tub butter was brought to market 
in the West Indies, which, on opening, was found 
to be very»bad, and almoat stinking. A native of 
Pennsylvania undertook to core it, which be did, in 
iSbA following manner : — ^ 

He started the tubs of butter in a large quantity 
of hot water, which soon meked the butter : he then 
skimmed it off as clean as possible, and worked it 
overlagain in a churn, and with the addition of salt 
and fine sugar, the butter was sweet and good. 

283. Method for taking the Rankness and disagree- 

able Taste from Irish salt Butter. 

The quantity proposed to be maide use of, either 
for toasts or melting, must be put into a bowl filled 
with boiling water, and when the butter is melted, 
ddm it quite off; by this method it is so separated, 
from any gross particles, that it may require a small 



156 BOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

addition of salt, which may be put into the cold wa- 
ter that is made use of in melting butter for siaace ; 
and though the butter is oiled by hot water, it be- 
comes a fine cream in the boiling for sauce. 

284.3^0 remove the taste of Turnipffrom Milk or 

Butter. 

The taste of the turnip is easily taken off milk and 
butter, by dissolving a little nitre in spring water, 
which being kept in a bottle, and a small tea-cup- 
full put into eight gallons of milk, when warm from 
the cow, entirely removes any taste or flavour of the 
turnip. 

285. To make Salt Butter fresh. 

Put four pounds of salt butter into a chum, with 
four quarts of new milk, and a small portion of ar- 
notto. Churn them together, and, in aoout an hour, 
take out the butter, and treat it exactly as fresh but* 
ter, by washing it in water, and adding the custom- 
ary quantity of salt. 

This is a singular experiment. The butter gains 
about three ounces in each pound, and is in every 
particular equal to fresh butter. It would be greatly 
improved by the addition of two or three ounces of 
fine sugar in powder. A common earthen churn 
answers the same purpose as a wooden one, and 
may be purchased at any pot shop. 

286. > Chickweed. 

The young shoots and leaves, when boiled, can 
scarcely be distinguished from spring spinage, and 
are equally wholesome. 

287. To prevent Children from eating their Food too 

quickly. 

. Children, when very young, get into the habit of 
eating their food too quickly, particularly fruit, and 
other substances of which they are fond. To prevent 



X>OM£STIC ECONOMY. 157 

I 
I 

their acquiring this habit, amusing devices might 
be employed, as cutting an apple, a pear, a piece 
of cake, or any other article of the same sort, into a 
number af pieces, arranging them in lines like an 
army, with one as an officer in the centre, and tel- 
ling them that the whole army nlust be devoured, 
piece by pitce^ and in a regular manner! This inte- 
rests little children so much, that they sqou pnafer 
it to a more speedy mode of consumption. 

388. To prevent the Formation of Crust upon the 

inside of Tea-Kettles. 

Put into the tea-kettle a flat oyster shefl, and keep 
it constantly there, it will attract the stony particles 
that are in the water, to itself, and prevent their 
forming upon the tea kettle. 

Or, as the shell occasions a disagreeable noise, 
regularly clean the inside of the kettle. No crust ^l^ 
forms on common saucepans which are cleaned 
whenever they are used. ^ 

289. To make Chocolate from Cocoa Nuts, 

Chocolate is made of the small cocoa bean sepa- 
rated from its shells, which being first coarsely 
pounded in a stone mortar, is afterwards levigated 
OD a slab of the finest grained marble ; to this a small 
qvantity of vaitilla is added. The mixture is heat- 
ed, and put into tin moulds of the size in which the 
cakes appear. 

290. Coffee. 

The infusion or decoction of the roasted seeds of * 
the cofiee-berry, when not too strong, is a whole- 
some, exhilarating, and strengthening beverage ; and 
when mixed with a large proportion of milk, is a 
proper article of diet for literary and sedentary 
people. It is especially suited to persons advanced 
ID years. People who are billious and liable to cos- 
'y tivenesss should abstain from itt Wbe^ drank very 

O 



158 ' DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

strong, it proves stimulating and beating in a consid- 
erable degree, creating thirst and producing watch- 
fulness. B; an abusive indulgence in this drink, 
the Cleans of digestion are impaired, the appetite 
is destroyed, nutrition is impeded, and emaciation, 
general debility, paralytic affections, and nervooi 
fever, are brought on. 

2S||k. • The Virtues of Coffee. 

Coffee accelerates digestion, corrects crudities, 
removes colic and flatulencies. It mitigates bead-^ 
aches, cherishes the animal spirits, takes away list- 
lessness and languor, and is serviceable in all ob- 
structions arising from languid circulation. It is a 
wonderful restorative to emaciated constitutions, 
and highly refreshing to the studious and sedentaryt 

The habitual use of coffee would greatly promote 
sobriety, being in itself a cordial stimulant ; it is a 
most powerful antidote to the temptation of spirita- 
ous liquors. 

It will be found a welcome beverage to the ro- 
bust labourer, who would despise a lighter drink. 

292. Turkish or Arabian Mode of preparing Coffee* 

The coffee ground or beaten to an impalpable 
powder is preserved, by closely pressing it down in 
a wooden box ; and the quantity required for use is 
scraped from the surface by means of a wooden 
spoon. Two small coffee-pots are employed ; in one 
is boiled the water, generally mixed with the re- 
maining coffee of a former meal ; in the other is pat 
the fresh powder, which is sometimes placed near 
the fire, to become heated before the boiling water 
is added to it. The mixture is then boiled two or 
three times, taking care to pour a few drops of cold 
water upon it the last time, or to place a cloth dip- 
ped in cold water over it ; then it is allowed to sub- 
side, and afterwards poured into the coffee-pot 
which contained only the boiling water* 



BOMESTie ECONOMY* 159 

K. B. The quantity of coffee powder necessary 
to make a fine strong tincture of coffee may be esti- 
mated as one coffee-cup of coffee powder, to three 
dishes of proper coffee liquor for the table. 

293. Cheap and valuable Substitute for Coffee. 

The flour of rye, and English yellow potatoes, are 
found an excellent substitute for coffee. These in- 
gredients are first boiled, then made into a cake, 
which is to be dried in an oven, and afterwards re- 
duced to a powder, which will make a beverage ve- 
ry similar (o coffee in its taste, as well as in other 
properties, and not in the least detrimental to health. 

294. Excellent Substitute for Qoffee. 

The seeds of the flower de luce, or common yel- 
low water flag, being roasted in the same manner 
as coffee, Yery much resemble it in colour and fla- 
vour, but havesomethingmoreof a saccharine odour, 
approaching to that of extract of liquorice. When 
carefully prepared they possess much more of the 
aroma of coffee than is to be found in any of the le- 
guminous and gramineous seeds that have been 
treated in the same manner. Coffee made of these 
seeds is extremely wholesome and nutricious, in the 
proportion of half an ouuce or an ounce, io a pint 
>f boiling water. 

295. Another. 

The seeds of foreign grapes have lately been dis- 
;overed to be an excellent substitute for coffee, 
nrben pressed^ they first produce a quantity of oil, 
md afterwards, when roasted and boiled, furnish a 
iquid much resembling that produced from coffee. 
Phfi practice is rapidly becoming general in Ger- 
nany. 

!96. Acorn Coffee. 

Take sound and ripe acorns, peel off the shell or 



160 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

1 

huek, divide the kernels, drj them gradually, and 
then roast them in a close vessel or roaster, keeping 
them continually stirring; in doing which special 
caje muslte taken that they be not burnt or roast- 
ed too much, both which would be hurtful. 

Take of these roasted acorns [ground like other 
€offee)halfan ounce every other morning and even- 
ing, alone mixed with a dram of other coffee, and 
sweetened with sugar, with or without milk. 

This receipt i^ recommended by a famous Ger- 
man physician7 as a much esteemed, wholesome, 
nourishing, strengthening nutriment for mankind ; 
which, by its medicinal qualities, has been found 
to cure the slimy obstructions in the viscera^ and to 
remove nervous complaints when other medicines 
have failed* 

Remark. — Since the duly was taken off, West In- 
dia coffee is so cheap tl)at substitutes are not worth 
making. On the continent the roasted roots of the 
wild chicory, a common weed, have been used with 
advantage. 

297. For improving Coffee. 

To valetudinarians and others, the following me- 
thod of making coffee for breakfast is earnestly re- 
commended as a most wholesome and pleasant jen- 
tacular beverage, first ordered by an able physician. 

Let one ounce of fresh ground coffee be put into 
a clean coffee-pot, or other proper vessel well tin- 
ned : pour a pint and a quarter of boiling water 
upon it, set it on the fire, let it boil thoroughly, and 
afterwards put by to settle ; this should be done on 
the preceding night, and on the following morning 
pour off the clear liquor ; add to it one pint of new 
milk ; set it again over the fire, but do not let it 
boil. Sweetened to every person^s taste, coffee thOs 
made is a most wholesome and agreeable break- 
fast, summer or winter, \yith toast, bread and but- 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY. IGl 

ter, rusks, biscuits, &c.' This process takes oif that 
raw, acidous, and astringeot quality of the coffee, 
which makes it often disagree with weak stomachd. 
It should not be drank too warm. 

A gentleman of the first fortune in the kingdom,. 
after a variety of medical applications in vain, was 
restored to health by applying to the above bever- 
age morning and afternoon. 

An improved Method of making tht Coffee Bever* 
agt.-^To an ounce of cofiee add a common tea- 
spoonful of the best flour of mustard seed, previous 
to the boiling. To those unacquainted with the me- 
thod, it is inconceivable how much it improves the 
fragrancy, fineness, transparency, and gratefully 
quick flavour of the beverage, and probably too it 
adds to its wholesomeness. 

298. To preserve Eggs for a length of Time. 

Put an egg for one minute in water just about to 
boil, (it will not in that time be too hard),i[nd it will 
afterwards keep well for a month. Steep one a little 
while in sweet oil, and it will keep for half a year. 

399. Best Method of cleaning fine Block-tin Dish 
Covers^ Patent Pewter^ <$rc. 

Where the polish is gone off, let the articles be 
first rubbed over the outside with a httle sweet oil, 
on a piece of soft linen cloth ; then clear it ofi* i^ith 
irj pure whitening, quite free from sand, on lin^n 
cloths, which will make them Iftok as well as when 
new. The insides should be rubbed with rags moist- 
ened in wet whitening, but without a drop of oil. 
Always wiping these articles dry, when brought 
from table, and keeping them free from steam or 
other damp, greatly facilitates the trouble of clean- 
ing them. 

300. Cleaning Floor Cloths, 

. After sweeping and cleaning the floor cloths with 

2 



163 DOMESTtC ECONOkl^. 

a broom and damp flaonel, in the asaal maiiner, Wet 
them over with milk, and rub them till beaatifuUy 
bright, with a dry cloth. They will thas look as 
well as if they were rubbed first with a waxed flan- 
nel, and afterwards with a dry one ; without beiog 
so slippery, or so soon clogging with dust or dirt. 

30] • To clean Gold and Silver Lace. 

Sew the la.ce in linen cloth, and boil it in a pint 
of water, and two ounces of soap ; and then wash 
the lace in water. 

302. To restore the Lustre of Glasses tarnished 2y 

Age or Accident. 

Strew on them powdered fuller^s-earth, carefolly 
cleared from sand, &c. and rub them carefolly 
with a linen cloth. Oxide of tin (putty) would per* 
baps be better. 

303. To clean Flint Glass Bottles^ Decanten^ ^• 

Roll up, in small pieces, some whited-browo or 
blotting-paper ; then wet and soap the same ; put 
them into the vessel, with a little lukewarm water; 
shake them well for a few minutes ; then rinse the 
glass with clean water, and it will be as bright and 
clear as when new from the shops. 

304. To clean Mahogany Furniture. 

Three pennyworth of alkane^t root, one pint of 
cold drawn linseed oil, two pennyworth of rose pjnk; 
put these into a pan, and let them stand all night : 
^hen take some of this mixture, rub it over the tables 
or chairs, and let it remain one hour ; then take a 
linen cloth and rub it well off, and it will leave a 
beautiful gloss on the furniture. 

If the pinky shade occasioned by the alkanet root 
and pink is disagreeable, they may be omitted in 
part or entirely.. 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 163 

305. To clean Turkey Carpets. 

To revive the colour of a Turkey carpet, beat 
it well with a stick till the dust is all got out ; then^ 
with a lemoQ or sorrel juice, take out the spots of 
ink, if the carpet be stained with any ; wash it in 
cold water, and afterwards shake out all the water 
Trom the threads of the carpet. When it is tho- 
roughly dry, rub it all over with the crumb of a hot 
irheaten loaf; and, if the weather is very fine, 
liaog it out in the open air a night or two« 

306. To clean Marble, 

Take a buIIock^s gall, a gill of soap lees, half a 
pll of turpentine, and make it into a paste with 
)ipe clay ; then apply it to the marble, and let it 
Iry a day or two ; then rub it off; and, if not clean, 
ipply it a second or third time until it is clean* ' 

J07* Another^ 

Muriatic acid, either diluted or pure, as occa- 
don may require, proves efficacious* If too strong 
t will deprive the marble of its polish, which -may 
»e easily restored by the use of a piece of felt, with 
lome powder of putty or tripoli, with either making 
ise of water. 

K>8« To clean Alabaster or Marble* 

Beat pumice stones to an impalpable powder, 
ind mix it up with verjuice ; let it stand for two 
loors, then dip into it a sponge, and rub the marble 
it alabaster, wash it with a linen cloth and fresh 
rater, and dry it with clean linen rags. 

109. Mixture for cleaning Stone Stairs^ Hall Pave* 

mentSj ^c* 

Boil together half a pint each of size and stone 
lue water, with two table-spoonfuls of whiting, 
nd two cakes of pipemaker's clay, in about two 
Qarta of water. Wash the stones over with a flan- 



164 DOMESTIC ECONOMr. 

nel slightly wetted in this mixture ; and, when drj, 
rub them with flannel and a brush. Some persons 
recommend beer, but water is much better for the 
purpose. 

310. Tkt danger of Children eating gilt Ginger- 
bread, or any article covered with such a compo* 
sition. 

There are frequently sold eatable things, as ima- 
ges of sugar, &c. having on them what people ima- 
gine to be gold leaf, but which is, in reality, leaves 
of copper, beat out in imitation of it, which is so 
dangerous a poison as to demand the interference 
of government, to prevent the sale of such articles ; 
irreparable mischief having been occasioned with- 
out suspicion of the cause. 

3K . Varnish for Furniture. 

To one part of virgin^s white wax add eight parts 
of oil of petroleum ; lay a slight coat of this mix- 
ture on the wood with a badger's brush, while a 
little warm ; the oil ^ill then evaporate, and leave 
a thin coat of wax., which should afterwards be 
polished with a coarse woolen cloth. 

312. German Furniture Gloss j or Polishing Wax 

for Mahogany^ ^c» 

Cut in small pieces a quarter of a pound of yel- 
low wax ; and, melting it in a pipkin, add an ounce 
of well pounded colophony, or black resin. The 
wax and colophony being both melted, pour in, by 
degrees, quite warm, two ounces of oil or spirit of 
turpentine. When the whole is thoroughly mixed, 
pour it into a tin or earthen pot, and keep it cover- 
ed for use. The method of applying it to the 
furniture, which must be first well dusted and clean- 
ed, is by spreading a little of this composition on a 
piece of woolen cloth, and well rubbing the wood 
with it ; and, in a few days, the gloss wiU be as firm 
and fast as varnish. 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 166 

31 3. Methodof cleaning and polishing Rusty SteeL 

After well oiling the rusty parts of the steel, let 
it remain two or three days in that state ; then 
wipe it dry with clean rags, and polish with ecnery 
or pomice-stone, on hard wood. Frequently, bow- 
ever, a little unslacked lime, finely powdered, wiH 
be sufficient after the oil is cleaned off. Where a 
very high degree of polish is requisite, it will be most 
eJSTectually obtained by using a paste composed of 
finely levigated blood-stone and spirits of wine. 
Bright bars, however, are admirably cleaned, in a 
kw minutes, by using a small portion of fine corned 
emery, and afterwards finishing with flour of em- 
ery or rotten-stone ; all of which may be had at any 
ironmonger's. This last very simple method will, 
perhaps, render any other superfluous- 
Si 4. Easy Method of cleaning Paper Hangings. 

Cut into eight half quarters, a quartern loaf tw^ 
days old ; it must be neither newer nor staler. With 
one of these pieces, after having blown off all the 
dust from the paper to be cleaned by means of a 
good pair of bellows, begin at the top of the room ; 
holding \he crust in the hand, and wiping lightly 
downward with the crumb, about half a yard at each 
8ti*oke, till the upper part of the hangings is com- 
pletely cleaned all round. Then go again round, 
with the like sweeping stroke downward, always 
commencing each successive course a little higher 
than the upper stroke had extended, till the bottom 
be finished. This operation if carefully performed, 
will frequently make very old paper look almost 
equal to new. Great caution must be used not by 
^y means to rub the paper hard, nor to attempt 
cleaning it the cross or horizontal way. Tho dirty 
part of the bread,too,must beat each time cut away, 
and the pieces renewed as soon as at all necessary. 



166 DOMESTIC ECONOMT. 

315. To preserve Metals from Rust. 
ADoint them with spermaceti oil. 

316. For cleaning Steel or Iron polished Stoves, 

Stoves may be admirably cleaned in a few min- 
utes, by using a small portion of fine corned emery- 
stone ; and afterwards finishing with flour of emery 
or rotten-stone, either of which may be obtained at 
any ironmonger's. 

317. To clean Iroy\from Rust* 

Pound some glass to fine powder ; and having 
nailed some strong linen or woolen cloth upon a 
board, lay upon it a strong coat of gum- water, and 
sift thereon some of your powdered glass, and let it 
dry ; repeat this operation three times, and when 
the last covering of powdered glass is dry, you may 
easily rub off the rust from iron utensils, with tb'c 
cloth thus prepared. 

318. How to judge the properties of Nutmegs* 

The largest, heaviest, and most unctions of nut- 
megs are to be chosen, such as are the shape of an 
olive, and of the most fragrant smell. 

319. To take the smell of Paint from Rooms. 

Let three or four broad tubs, each containing a* 
bout eight gallons of water, and one ounce of vitri- 
olic acid, be placed in the new painted room, near 
the wainscoat ; this water will absorb and retain the 
effluvia from the paint in three days, but the water 
should be renewed each day during that time. 

320. Mtthod of making Stilton Cheese. 

Take the night's cream, and put it to the morn- 
ing's new milk, with the rennet ; when the curd if 
come, it is not to be broken, as is done with other 
cheeses, but take it out with a soil dish altogether, 
and place it on a sieve to drain gradually, and, srs 



DOMESTIC ECONOMT. 167 

it drains, keep gradually pressing it till it becomes 
firm and dry ; then place it in a wooden hoop : af- 
terwards to be kept dry on boards, turned frequent- 
ly with cloth-binders round it, which are to be tight- 
ened as occasion requires* 

Id some dairies the cheeses, after being taken 
out of the wooden hoop, are bound tight round 
with a cloth, which cloth is changed ev/sry day un- 
til the cheese becomes firm enough to support itself; 
after the clofh is taken away, they are rubbed eve- 
ry day all over, for two or three months, with a 
brush ; and if the weather is damp or moist, twice 
a day ; and even before the cloth is taken off, the 
top and bottom are well rubbed every day. 

N. B. The dairy-maid must not be disheartened 
if she does not perfectly succeed in her first attempt. 

32 1 • Colouring for Cheese. 

The colouring for cheese is, or at least should be, 
Spanish annotto ; but, as soon as colouring became 

feneral in this country, a colour of an adulterated 
ind was exposed for sale in almost every shop ; 
the weight of a guinea and a half of real Spanish an- 
notto is sufficient for a cheese of fifty pounds weight. 
If a considerable part of the cream of the night^s 
milk be taken for butter, more colouring will be re- 
quif ite. The leaner the cheese is the more coloar- 
ing it requires. The manner of using annotto, is to 
tie up, in a linen rag, the quantity deemed sufficient, 
and put it into half a pint of warm water over night. 
This infusion is put into the tub of milk, in the 
^oming, with the rennet infusion ; dipping the rag 
into the mill^, and rubbing it against the palm of 
tiie band as long as any colour runs out. 

3«2. To fatten Poultry. 

Poultry should be fattened in coops, and kept 
very clean. They should be furnished with gravel, 



168 B0ME8T1C ECONOMY. 

but with no water. Their only food, barley-meali 
mixed so thin with water as to serve them for drink* 
Their thirst makes them eat more than they would, 
in order to extract the water that is among the food. 
This should not be put in troughs, but laid upon a 
board, which should be clean washed every, time 
fresh food is laid upon it. it is foul and heated wa- 
ter which is the sole cause of the pip. 

323. A new Method of rearing Poultry to Advanr 
tage ; communicated hy Mrs. D^Oyley to the So' 
ciety of Arts. 

^^ I keep a large stock of poultry, which are re- 
gularly fed in a morning upon steamed potatoes 
chopped small, and at noon they have barley ; they 
are in high condition, tractable, and lay a very 
great quantity of e^. In the poultry yard is -ft 
small building, similar to a pigeon cote, for the 
bens to lay in, with frames covered with net to slide 
before each nest ; the house is dry, light, and well 
ventilated, kept free from dirt, by having the nests 
and walls white-washed two or three times a year, 
and the iSoor covered once a week with fresh ashes : 
when I wish to procure chickens, I take the oppor- 
tunity of setting many hens together, confining each 
to her respective nest ; a boy attends morning and 
evening to let any off that appear restless, and to 
see that they return to their proper places ; when 
they hatch, the chickens are taken away, and a 
second lot of eggs allowed them to set again, by 
which means they produce as numerous a brood as 
before ; I put the chickens into long wicker cages, 
placed against a hot wall, at the back of the kitch- 
en fire, and within them are artificial mothers for 
the chickens to run under ; they are made of boards 
about ten inches broad, and fifteen inches long, sup- 
ported by two feet in front, four inches in height, 
and by a board at the back two inches in height. 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 169 

the roof and back are lined with lamb's-skins dress- 
ed with the wool upon them. The roof is thickly 
perforated with holes for the heated air to escape ; 
thej are formed without bottoms, and have a flan- 
nel curtain in front, and at the ends, for the chick- 
ens to run under, which they do apparently by in- 
stinct. The cages are kept perfectly dry and 
clean with sand or moss. The above is a proper 
size for fifty or sxty new hatched chickens, but as 
they increase in size they of course require a larger 
mother. When they are a week old, and the weath- 
er fine, the boy carries th&m. and their artificial 
mothen, to the grass-plot, nourishes and keeps 
them warm, by placing a long narrow tin vessel, 
filled with hot water, at the back of the artificial 
mother, which will retain its heat for three hours, 
and is then renewed fresh from the steamer. In 
the evening they are driven into their cages, and 
resume their station at the hot wall, till they are 
nearly three weeks old, and able to go into a small 
room appropriated to that purpose. The room is 
furnished with frames similar to the artificial moth- 
ers, placed round the floor, and with perches con- 
veniently arranged for them to roost upon. 

'* When I first attempted to bring up poultry in 
the above way, I lost immense numbers by too 
great heat and suffocation, owing to the roofs of the 
mothers not being sufliciently ventilated ; and when 
that evil was remedied I had another serious one to 
encounter ; I found chickens brought up in this way 
did not thrive upon the food I gave them, and many 
of them died^ tiLlI thought of getting coarse barley- 
meal, and steammg it till quite soft ; the boy feeds 
them with this and minced potatoes alternately ; he 
ij5 also employed rolling up pellets of dough, made 
of coarse wh«at flour, which he throws to the chick- 
ens to excite them to eat, thereby causing themlo 
grow surprisingly. Hens kept as mine are, and 

P 



170 DOKESTIC EC0N0H7* 

having the same conveniences, will readily set four 
times in a season, and by setting twice each time, 
they would produce, at the lowest calculation,' eigh- 
ty chickens each, which would soon make them 
very plentiful." 

324. Method of expeditiously fattening Chickens* 

Take, for that purpose, a quantity of rice, and 
grind or pound it into a fine flour ; mix sufficient 
for present use with milk and a little coarse sugar; 
stir the whole well over the fire, till it makes a thick 
baste ; and feed the chickens, in the daytime onlyi 
iy putting as much of it as they . can eat, but no 

fiore, into the troughs belongmg to their coops* 
t must be eaten while warm ; and if they have also 
|)eer to drink, they will soon grow very fat. A 
fnixture of oatmeal and treacle, combined till it 
crumbles, is said to form a food for chickens, of 
which they are so fond, and with which they thrive 
so rapidly, that at the end of two months they be- 
come as large as the generality of full grown fowls 
fed in the common way. 

325. Swedish Method of raising Turkies* 

As soon as the young turkies leave the shell, they 
are made to swallow one or two pepper-corns, and 
returned to their mother. They are afterwards fed 
with crumbs of bread and milk, and with common 
dock leaves chopped small, and mixed with fresh 
l/utter-milk, and kept in a warm place orsun-shinOi 
and guarded from the rain or from running among 
nettles. 

Nothing, however, is more useful for them than 
the common garden pepper-cress, or cut-leaved 
cress. They are very fond of it ; and supplied 
with as much of it as they will eat, thef will not be 
delicate in their other food. Perhaps cresses might 
be equally useful for young pheasants, numbers of 



SOXESTie ECONOMY. 171 

lb are reared by poor cottagers in Bucking- 
shire, for the supply of London. At least the 
Lsant is a bird that haunts the woods, and lives 
36 same fare as the turkey in its wild state. 
(It eggs are the best food for them, whenever 

can be procured. 

Method of fattening Geese and Ducks • 
eese, the more quiet and undisturbed they are 
, the faster and better they fatten, 
shall begin with what are usually called green 
e : — Let these young geese be put in a place 

is almost dark, and be fed with some ground 
: mixed up with milk, and they will very soon) 
at very little expense, be fit to kill ; the meth- 
las often been tried, and the flesh /las been 
d to eat very delicate. 

sometimes fat them in a still cheaper way, espe- 
y when milk is scarce : I mix up some barley 
I, pretty thick, with water, which they con- 
tjy have by them, to eat as they chuse ; in an- 
r part of the shed, where they are kept in a 

with some boiled bats, and water for them to 
rt to when they are inclined to change their 
• This variety is agreeable to them, and they 
re apace, being so fatted at less expense than 
ly other manner I know of. 
be manner in which I manage my Michaelmas 
nbble geese, is not very different from that a- 
) described. Immediately after harvest, I turn 
1 on the wheat oddishoe, where they pick up 

apace : but when I take them up to fatten, I 

them with ground malt, mixed up with water, 
give them with it boiled oats, boiled malt, or 
.*d barley, and sometimes, for change, even 
\A wheat and water. Thus managed, they grow 
r and acquire a finer flavour than would at first 
nagined, and greatly superior to those in the 
Ion markets. * 



172 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

1 fatten my ducks in the same manner, only al- 
lowing them a larger pan to dabble in, which an- 
swers extremely well. 

I keep a very considerable number of ducks for. 
breeders, having near my house the convenience 
of several ponds, and I annually set in the ^priog 
a great number of duck eggs under hens ; it is 
therefore natural that I should chuse such a breed 
as will lay me a large number of eg<^s, and I £ave 
always found such as have their bills turn up rather 
more than ordinary, to answer this purpose best. . 

327. Rules for plucking Geese. 

Geese destined for breeding in farm-yards, and 
which are called old geese, may indeed be plucked 
thrice a yfear without inconvenience, at an inteir- 
val of seven weeks ; but young ones, before they 
are subjected to this operation, must have attained 
to the age of thirteen or fourteen weeks, and espe- 
cially those destined for the table, because tbey 
would become meagre, and lose their quality. 

.328. To improve the Down of Geese. 

The nature of the food contributes very much to 
the value of the down, and to the strength of feath* 
ers ; the particular care taken of geese has do lest 
influence; It has been remarked, that in places 
where these birds find a great deal of water, tbey 
are not so much subject to vermin, and furnish 
feathers of a better quality. 

329. To ascertain the properties of Goose Dovmm 

• 

There is a sort of maturity, in regard to down* 
which may be easily discovered, as it then falls of 
itself; if removed too soon it will not keep, and is 
liable to be attacked by worms. Lean geese fur- 
nish more than those which are fat, and are also 
more esteemed. Faripers ought never to suffer 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 173 

feathers to be pulled from geese some time after 
they are dead, for the pQrpose of being sold ; they 
generally smell bad, and become matted ; none but 
those plucked from living geese, or which have 
been just killed, ought to be introduced into com- 
merce. In the latter case the geese must be pluck- 
ed soon, and in such a manner that the operation 
may be terminated before they are entirely ccld ; 
the feathers then are much better. 

# 

330. To prevent inconventence from perspiration of 

the Hands. 

Ladies who work lace or embroidery sometimes 
suffer inconvenience from the perspiration on their 
hands ; which may be remedied, by rubbing the 
hands frequently with a little dry wheaten bran. 

33 1 • To purify Lemon Juice, 

Add one ounce of pulverised, well burnt char- 
coal, to a quart of lemon juice ; after standing 
twelve hours, filter the juice through white blotting 
paper; it will keep good several years in a cellar, 
ia a bottle well corked ; a thick crust will form 
beneath the cork, and the mucilage will fall to the 
bottom. 

332. Every family to make their own Sweet Oil. 

It is reported a person is going to take out a pa- 
tent for making a small hand-mill, for every family 
to make their own sweet oil. This may easily be 
done, by grinding or beating the seeds of whiter pop» 
pies into a paste, then boil it ia^water, and skim off 
the oil as it rises ; one bushel of seed weighs fifty 
pounds, and produces two gallons of oil. Of the 
tweetolive oil sold, one half is oil of poppies. The 
poppies will grow in any garden : it is the large- 
bead white poppy, sold by apothecaries. Large 
fields are sown with poppies in France and Flan- 
ders, for the purpose of expressing oil from their 

P2 



174 DOMESTIC ECONOMTl 

seed for food. Vide lOtb and llth voU. tt Bath 
Society Papers, where a premium of twelve guin- 
eas is offered for the greatest number of acres sown 
in 1808 and 1809. When the seed is taken out, 
the poppy head when dried is boiled to an extract, 
which is sold at two shillings per ounce, and is to 
be. preferred to opium, which now sells- very high. 
Large fortunes may be acquired by the cultivation 
of poppies. Some acres of it are now sown near 
Cambridge, and of late years also at Enfield, in 
Middlesex. 

White poppies are, however, a very precarious 
Crop in the climate of Britain ; except, perhaps, in 
Devon, and the more southerly districts. 

"^SS. To take Mildew out oflAnen. 

Take soap, and rub it well : then scrape some 
tine chalk, and rub that also in the linen ; lay it on 
the grass ; as it dries, wet it a little, and it will come 
out at twice doing. 

534. To make Verjuice. 

The acid of the juice of the crab or wilding is 
called by the country people verjuice, and is much 
used in recent sprains, and in other cases, as an 
astringent pr repellent. With a proper addition of 
sugar, it is probable that a very grateful liquor might 
be made of this juice, but little inferior to old hock. 

335. Method of making Vinegar. 

To every gallon of water put a pound of coarse 
Lisbon sugar ; let the mixture be boiled, and bkim- 
med so long as any scum arises. Then let it be 
poured into proper vessels ; and when it is as cool 
as beer when worked, let a warm toast, rubbed 
over with yeast, be put to it. Let it work about 
twenty- four hours, and then put it into an iron-hoop- 
ed cask, and fixed either near a constant fire, or 
where the summer sun shines the greater part of the 



BOMESTIC ECONOMY. 17d 

day ; in this situation it should not be closely stop- 
ped up, but a tile, or something similar, laid on 
the bung-hole, to keep out the dubt and insects. 
At the end of about three months (sometimes less) 
it will be clear, and fit for use, and nlay be bottled 
off. The longer it is kept after it is bottled, the 
better it will be. If the vessel containing the li- 
quor is to be exposed to the sun's heat, the best 
time to begin making it is in April. 
336. Ta make Vinegar with the refuse of Beehives, 

after the honey is extracted. 
. When honey is extracted from the combs by 
means of pressure, take the whole mass, break and 
separate it, and into each tub or vessel put one part 
of combs and two of water : place them in the sun, 
if his rays possess a sufficient power, or in a warm 
place, and cover them with cloths. Fermentation 
takes place in a few days, and continues from eight 
to twelve days, according to the higher or lower 
temperature of thesituatroh in which the operation 
is performed. During the fermentation, stir the 
matter from time to time, and press it down with 
the hanes, that it may be perfectly soaked. When 
the fermentation is over, put the matter to drain 
upon sieves or strainers. At the bottom of the 
yessels will be found a yellow liquor, which must 
be thrown away, because it would soDn contract a 
disagreeable smell, which it would communicate to 
the vinegar. Then wash the tubs, put into them 
the water separated from the other matter ; it im- 
mediately begins to turn sour; when (ho tubs must 
be again covered with cloths, and kept moderately 
warm. A pellicle or skin is formed on their sur- 
face, beneath which the vinegar acquires strength ; 
in a month's time it begins to be sharp ; it mu^t be 
left standing a little longer, and then put into a cask, 
of which the bung-hole is left open, and it may 
then be\]sed like any other vinegar. 



176 DOMESTIC fiCO^OMT. 

337. To strengthen Vinegar. 

Suffer it to be repeatedly frozen, and separate 
the upper cake of ice or water from it. 

338. Balsamic and anti-putrid Vinegar. 

Acetic acids may be mixed with aromatics, as in 
Henry^s thieves vinegar, in a quantity sufficient for 
a small smelling- bottle, at no great expense. But 
it is the acetic acid which is useful, and not the 
aromatics, which are added for the pleasure of the 
perfume. Acetous acid or common vinegar, with 
or without aromatics, has little or no anti-putrid 
quality. 

339' Gooseberry Vinegar. 

Take the gooseberries, when full ripe, stamp 
them small ; to every quart put three quarts of wa- 
ter, stir them well together ; let it stand twenty- 
four hours, then strain it through a canvas bag. 

To every gallon of liquor, add one pound of 
brown sugar, and stir them well together before 
you barrel your liquor. 

The old bright yellow English gooseberries are 
the best. 

340. To make Primrose Vinegar. 

To fifteen .quarts of water put six pounds of 
brown sugar; let it boil ten minutes, and take off 
the scum : pour on it half a peck of primroses ; 
before it is quite cold, put in a little fresh yeast, 
and let it work in a warm place all night ; put it in 
a barrel in the kitchen, and when done working, 
close the barrel, still keeping it in a warm place. 

341. Method of rendering putrid Water szccct. 

In a course of experiments which a gentleman 
was making, he had occasion to mix clay with a 
large quantity of water in a cistern. 



BOMESTIC ECONOMY. 177 



X 



After the water and clay had remained thus mix- 
ed for some weeks, be tasted the water before it 
should be thrown out, and found it sweet and well 
flavoured. On this he stirred them, to find whether 
any putrid stench might arise from the bottom, but 
was agreeably surprised to find that the whole ^)«a» 
equally sweet. 

He now resolved to keep it longer, in order to 
determine what effect time might have on the mix- 
ture, and, if my memory serves me right, repeated 
the tastings and stirrings for several months, with 
equal success, though some part of the time was 
* summer, during which he expected that the water 
would have become highly putrid. , 

He communicated this discovery to the Society 
for the Encouragement of Arts, &c. it was referred 
to the Committee of Chemistry, with orders to 
make what efxperiments should seem to thdtn re- 
quisite to determine a point so necessary to the 
welfare of numbers, as manjr diseases are known 
to take their rise from putrid water. The whole 
was confirmed by the report of the committee. 
Here is then a very easy means wherebjf every cot- 
tager has it in h\9 power constantly to use sweet 
and wholesome water. 

It is no more than mixing with water a quantity 
of common clay, sufficient to take off its transpa- 
rency, so far as that the hands, held just under the 
surface, shall not appearthrougb it. 

J^ote. — This experiment has since been tried by 
mixing clay with putrid water in a close salt-glazed 
earthen vessel. The water did not become sweet. 
The experiment must be made in a close vessel, for 
the effect of ventilation in sweetening putrid water 
is well known. Now water in a stone or lead cistern 
freely exposed to the air, and particularly if the 
growth of confervae be prevented by excluding the 
light, will not become putrid in the greatest heat of 



178 POHSSTIC ECONOMT. 

this climate, unless it be mixed with a very udcooi- 
mon proportion of some decomposeable animal or 
Tegetable substance. The diffusing of clay in wa- 
ter may however have some effect upon it ; for it 
has been observed, that horses prefer the water of 
a clay-pit ; and if there be any disengaged vitri- 
olic acid in the clay, that acid may take <^ the 
putridity. 

Perhaps charred casks preserve water longer 
than any other method. 

342. To purify Water for domestic or other pur- 
poses. 

This method is extremely simple, and consists in 
placing horizontally, in the midst of a common wa- 
ter butt, a false bottom, perforated with a great 
number of smalt holes. The butt being tluis di* 
vided into two equal parts, the. upper is filled with 
pieces of charcoal, which must be neither too 
large nor too small, thoroughly burned, light, and 
well washed. Immediately under the cock, by 
which the water enters the butt, must be placed a 
small holIowFcylinder, being merely to break the 
force of the water, and prevent it from falling up- 
on the charcoal with such violence as to detach 
from it any particles of dirt, and wash them through 
into the lower receptacle ; it is of little conse- 
quence of what material it is made. M. Siauve 
thinks that this contrivance might be made subser* 
vient to the interests of agriculture as well as do- 
mestic economy ; and that it would be highly ad* 
vantageous to provide water thus filtered for the 
cattle, during the whole of the dog-days, and par- 
ticularly when the ponds :ind streams are infected 
by the rotting of the hemp and flax. 

Remark. — A very good filter may be made of 
charcoal, but it is comparatively expensive ; and 
there is a patent for the only way in which the filter 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY* 179 

can^be made to last. In the above receipt, if the 
charcoal is not in very fine powder, it will have 
little eifoct in purifying the water ; if it be, the 
charcoal will very soon choke from the quantity of 
mud deposited in it by the water, and the frequent 
renewals of the charcoal, which would be nerossa- 
ry from the choaking, would be found expe^nsive* 
The contrivance could only be useful as a tempora- 
ry means of ascertaining the power of the charcoal 
on the particular kind of water, with a view after- 
wards to procure a proper filter. 

343. To purify Water for drinking* 

Filter river water through a sponge, more or less 
compressed, instead of stone or sand, by which the 
water is not only rendered more clear, but whole- 
some ; for sand is insensibly dissolved by the wa- 
ter, so that in four or five years it will have lost 
a fifth part of its weight. Powder of charcoal should 
be added to the sponge when the water is foul, or 
fetid. Those who examine the large quantity of 
terrene matter on the inside of tea-kettles will be 
convinced all water should be boiled before drunk, 
if they wish to avoid being afflicted with gravel and 
stone, &c. &c* 

344* To purify the muddy Water of Rivers or Pita* 

Make a number of holes in the bottom of a deep 
tub ; lay some clean gravel thereon, and above this 
some clean sand ; sink this tub in the river or pit, 
so that only a few inches of the tub will be above 
the surface of the water ; the river or pit water will 
filter through the sand, and rise clear through it to 
the level of the water on the outside, and will be 
pure and limpid. 

345. Method of making putrid Water sweet in a 

Night'^s Time. 

Four large spoonfuls of unslacked lime put into 



180 DOMESTIC ECONOMY.' 

a puncheon of ninety gallons of putrid water at sea, 
will in one night, make it as clear and sweet as the 
best spring water just drawn ; but unless the water 
is afterwards ventilated sufficiently to carbonize the 
'ftlne, it will be a lime water* Three ounces of pure 
unslacked lime should saturate ninety gallons of 
water. 

346. To prevent the Freezing of Water in Pipes in 

the Winter Time. 

By tying up the ball-cock, during the frost, the 
freezing of pipes will often be prevr^nted ; in fact, 
it will always be prevented where the main pipe is 
higher than the cistern or otiier reservoir, and the 
pipe is laid in a regular inclination from one to the 
other, for then no water can remain in the pipe ; or 
if the main is lower than the cistern, and the pipe 
regularly inclines, upon the supplies ceasing, the 
pipe will immediately exhaust ilself into the main. 
Where water is in the pipes, if each cock is left a 
little dripping, this circulation of the water will fre- 
quently prevent the pipes from being frozen. 

347. Easy Method of purifying Water • 

Take a commongarden pot, in the midst of which 
place a piece of wicker work ; on this spread a lay- 
er of charcoal of four or five inches in thickness, 
and above the charcoal -a quantity of sand. The 
surface of the sand is to be covered with paper 
pierced full of holes, to prevent the water from 
making channels in it. ^ This filter is to be renewed 
ocasionally. By this process, which is at once 
simple and economical, every person is enabled to 
procure pure limpid water at a very trifling ex- 
pense. 

348. The best Method of obtaining pure Soft Water^ 
for Medicinal purposes, zoithout distilling t7« 

Place an earthen pan in the fields, at a consider- 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 181 

able distance from the smoke of anj town, to catch 
the rain as it falls from the clouds. The water 
should be put into perfectly clean bottles, and the 
corks well secured with wax, and if the bottles are 
put into a cool place, the water will keep sweet 
for several years. 

349. To purify River or any other muddy water* 

Dissolve half an ounce of alum in a pint of warm 
water, and stirring it about in a puncheon of water 
just taken from any river, all the impurities will 
soon settle to the bottom, and in a day or two it 
will become as clear as the finest spring water. 

350. Warm Water. 

Warm water is preferable to cold water, as a 
drink, for persons who are subject to dyspeptic and 
bilious complaints, and it may be taken more freely 
than cold water, and consequently answers better as 
adiluent'for carrying off bile, and removing obstruc- 
tions in the urinary secretion in cases of stone and 
gravel. When water, of a temperature equal to 
that of the human body, is used for drink, it proves 
considerably stimul.ant, and is particularly suited 
to dyspeptic, bilious, gouty, and chlorotic subjects. 

351. To make sea-water fit for washing linen at sea. 

Soda put into sea- water, renders it turbid ; the 
lime and magnesia fall to the bottom. To make 
iea- water fit for washing linen at sea, as much soda 
must be put in it, as not only to effect a complete 
precipitation of these earths, but to render the 
sea-water sufficiently lixivial or alkaline. Soda 
shouM always be taken to sea for this purpose. 

352. Proper Method of making Toast and Water^ 
and the advantages resulting therefrom* 

Take a slice of fine and stale loaf-bread, cut ve* 



183 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

rj thin, (as thin as toast is ever cut,) and let it be 
carefully toasted on both sides, until it be complete' 
It/ browned all overj but no v/ise blackened or burn- 
ed in any way. Put this into a common deep stone 
or china jug, and pour over it, from the tea-kettlei 
as much clean boiling water as you wish to make 
into drink. Much depends on the water being ac- 
tually in a boiling state. Cover the jug with a sau- 
cer or plate, and let the drink cool until it be quite 
cold ; it is then fit to be used : the fresher it is made 
the better, and of course the more agreeable. 
The above will be found a pleasant, light,, aud high- 
ly diuretic drink. It is peculiarly grateful to the 
stomach, and excellent for carrying off the effects 
of any excess in drinking. It is also a most excel- 
lent drink at meals, and may be used in the summer 
time, if more agreeable to the drinker. 

353. To make a vessel for Jiliering water • 

Where water is to be filtered in large quantities, 
as for the purposes of a family, a particular kind of 
soft, spongy stones, called filtering stones, are em- 
ployed. These, however, though the water per- 
colates through them very fine, and in sufficient 
quantity at first, are liable to be obstructed in the 
same manner as paper, and are then rendered use- 
less. A better method seems to be, to have a 
wooden vessel lined with lead, three or four feet 
wide at top, but tapering so as to end in a small ori- 
fice at the bottom. The under part(^of the vessel 
is to be filled with very rough sand, or gravel, well 
freed from earth by washing ; over this pretty fine 
sand may be laid, to the depth of twelve or four- 
teen inches, but which must likewise be well freed 
from earthy particles. 

The vessel may then be filled up to the top with 
water, pouring it gently at first, lest the sand should 
be too much displaced. It will soon filter through 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 183 

the sand, and run out at the lower orifice exceed- 
ingly transparent, and likewise in very considera- 
ble quantities. When the upper part of the sand 
begins to be stopped up, so as not to allow ^ free 
passage to the water, it may occasionally be taken 
off, and the earthy matter washed from it, when it 
will be equally serviceable as before, 

354. The Turkish method of filtering water by 

ascension. 

They make two wells, from five to ten feet, or 
any depth, at a small distance, which have a com- 
munication at the bottom. The separation roust be 
of clay well beaten, or of other substances impervi- 
ous to water. The two wells are then filled with 
sand and gravel. The opening of that into which 
the water to be filtered is to run, must be somewhat 
higher than that into which the jnracer is to ascend ; 
and this must not have sand quite up to its brim, 
that there may be room for the filtered water ; or it 
^^Jj ^y ^ spout, run into a vessel placed for that 
purpose. The greater the difference is between the 
height of the two wells, the faster the water will fil- 
ter I but the less it is, the better, provided a suffi- 
cient quantity of water be supplied by it. 

This may bcf practised in a cask, tub, jar, or other 
vesseL The water may be conveyed to the bot- 
tom by a pipe, the lower end having a sponge In 
it, or the pjpe may be filled with coarse sand. 

It is evident that all such particles, which by 
their gravity are carried down in filtration by de- 
scent, will not rise with the water in filtration by 
ascension. This might be practised on board ships 
at little expense. 

355. To preserve Lemon juice during a long voyage. 

Care must be taken to squeeze only sound fruit, 
as a tainted lemon will endanger the spoiling of the 



184 DOMESTIC ECONOMY, 

whole ; the expi'essed juice must be depurated, by 
standing a few days, adding one ounce of cr,eain of 
tartar to every quart of lemon juice ; filter it pretty 
clear ; then it is to be put into small bottles, none 
<^f them containing more than a pint of juice ; in 
the neck of the bottle, a little of the best oil of 
olives is to be poured, and the cork well sealed 
over, 

356. Method of preserving Grapes. 

Take a cask or barrel,' inaccessible to the exter- 
nal air, and put into it a layer of bran, dried in an 
oven, or of ashes well dried and sifted. Upon this, 
place a layer of grapes well cleaned, and gathered 
in the afternoon of a dry day, before they are per- 
fectly ripe. Proceed thus with alternate layers of 
bran and grapes, till the barrel is full, taking care 
that the grapes do not touch each other, and to let 
the last layer be bi*an ; then close the barrel, so 
that the air may not be able to penetrate, which it 
an essential point. Grapes, thus packed, will keep 
nine or even twelve months. To restore them to 
their freshness, cut the end of the stalk of each 
bunch of grapes, and put that of white grapes into 
white wine, and that of the black grapes into red 
wine, as you would put flowers into water, to revive 
or keep them fresh. 

357. Singular and simple manner of preserving Ap- 
ples from the effects of Frosty in fforth jimerica* 

Apples being produced most abundantly in North 
America, and forming an article of chief necessity in 
almost every family, the greatest care is constantly 
taken to protect them from frost at the earliest com- 
mencement of the winter season ; it being well 
known, that apples, if left unprotected, are inevita- 
bly de^^troyed by the first frost which occurs. This 
desirable object, during their long and severe win- 
ters, is said to be completely effected, by only throw- 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 186 

ing over them a thin linen cloth before the approach 
of frost, when the fruit beneatff^^ never injured, 
how severe soever the winter may happen to prove. 
Yet apples are there usually kept in a small apart- 
ment immediately beneath the roof of the house, 
particularly appropriated to that purpose, and where 
there is never anj fire. This is a fact so well known, 
that the Americans are astonished it should appear 
at all wonderful : and they have some reason to be 
so, when it is considered that, throughout Germany, 
the same method of preserving fruit is universally 
practised ; from whence, probably, it made its way 
to North America. It appears, that linen cloth only 
is used for this purpose : woolen cloth, in particu- 
lar, having been experienced to prove ineffectual. 
There seems abundant reason to believe, that even 
potatoes might be protected from frost by some such 
simipe expedient. 

Remark. — This article, as well as the preceding, 
(to which the principle seems very analagous,) 
merits high consideration ; and for the same impor- 
tant reason, its capability of conducing to. the uni* 
versal benefit of mankind, and the numerous ani- 
mals under our protection. 

358. To keep Oranges and Lemofis. 

Take small sand and make it very dry ; after it 
is cold put a quantity of it into a clean vessel ; then 
take your oranges, and set a laying of them in the 
same, the stalk end downwards, so that they do not 
touch each other, and strew in some of the sand, 
as much as will cover them two inches deep ; then 
set your vessel in a cold place, and you will find 
your fruit in high preservation at the end of several 
months. 

359. Another. 

Freeze the oranges, and keep them in an ice- 
house. When to be used, put them into a vessel of 

Q2 



] 86 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

cold water till thQ^are thawed. By this means they 
may be had in penection at any season of the year. 

360. J^ew Method of preserving Potatoes. 

1 he following method of preserving potatoes was 
communicated by Mr. Millington, to the Society for 
Bettering the condition of the Poor : 

I caused (says this gentleman) three pounds and 
a half of potatoes to be peeled and rasped ; theil 
put in a coarse cloth, between two boards, in a nap- 
kin press, and pressed them into a dry cake, hardly 
so thick as a thin cheese. They were then placed 
on a shelf to dry. There was about a quart of juice 
expressed from the potatoes. To this was added 
about a like quantity of water, and in about an hour 
it deposited more than sixty grains of white starch 
or flour, fit to make pastry. A cake of this was pre- 
pared and sent to the Society. In bulk it occupied 
only a sixth part of the compass of the potatoes ; in 
weight it had lost about two thirds bj the process ; 
but the cake, when dressed with steam or other* 
wise, will produce nearly the same quantity of food 
as three pounds and a half of potatoea, properly 
dressed for table, would do. Some potatoes, quite 
frozen, have been prepared this way, and the cake 
was perfectly sweet ; whereas some of the same 
parcel that were left, and not pressed, were rotten 
and spoiled in a few days. 

381, To preserve Potatoes from the Frost. 

*' e DOta convenient store- place for them, 

eeipr four feet deep, into which they 

II tbey are taken up, and then cover- 

'aken out of the trench, raised up 

be roof of a house, and covered 

ry off the rain. They will be 

the frost, and can be taken up 



DOMESTIC ECOXOMT. l^. 



362. Method ofrecozerine Frost-Bittin F-u:;i :r 

VegetabUs. 

This may be done bj putting such I'raits and 
roots, as pears, apples, potatoes, izc. as hare been 
penetrated bj frost, into cold water, when a thaw 
approaches, and letting them reoiain in the water 
sometime, till by the plumpness and fairness of the 
fruit and roots it appears that the particles of the 
frost are extracted. This method has been often 
tried and found to answer, but at the same time 
the utmost care should be taken to preserve these 
things from the frost, as it is better to keep of an 
enemy than to be at the trouble of dri\ ing him out. 

363. To preserzt AppUf, 

Dry a glazed jar perfectly well, put a few peb- 
bles in the bottom ; fill the jar with apple?, and 
cover it with a bit of wood made to fit exactly : and 
over that, put a little fresh mortar. The pebble* 
attract the damp of the tipples. The mortar draws 
the air from the jar, and leaves the apples tree from 
its pressure, which, together with the principle of 
putrefaction which the air contains, are the cause: 
of decay. Apples, kept thus, have been found q iite 
sound, fair, and juicy, in July. 

364. Preservation of Succulent Planti. 

Green succulent plants are better preserved after 
a momentary immersion in boiling wate'r. than oth- 
erwise. This practice has been successfulU u!ed 
in the preservation of cabbage, and other piantf. 
dried for keeping; it destroys the vegetable life at 
once, and in a great measure prevents that decay 
which otherwise attends them. 

^65. A Method of preserving Fruit fresh all the 

Year, 

Take of saltpetre one pound, of bole-armenic 
two pounds, of common sand, well freed from it; 



188 iDOMBSTJC £CON0MT. 

earthy parts, foKpoands, aod mix altogether. After 
this, let the frim be gathered with the haDd before 
it be thoroughly ripe, each fruit being handled obly 
by the stalk ; lay them regularly, and in order, in a 
large wide^mouthed glass vessel ; then cover the top 
of the glass with an oiled paper, and carrying it in* 
to a dry place, set it in a box filled all round, to a- 
bout four inches thickness, with the aforesaid pre* 
parations, so that no part of the glass vessel shall 
appear, being in a manner buried in the prepared 
nitre : and at the end of a year such fruits may be 
taken out, as beautiful as when they werefir0t put in. 

366.' To preserve Hazel JiuU in great Perfection 

for many Months. 

Hazel nuts may be kept a long time in full ker- 
nel by burying them in earthen pots, well closed, a 
foot or two in the ground. They keep best in gra* 
velly or sandy places. 

367. To manage Ripe fruit for a Desert. 

Take some fruit-baskets of open work, cover them 
with large leaves, and at seven o^clock in the morn- 
ing go out and gather the fruit. When you have 
carefully chosen what is ripe, and laid it handsomely 
in (he basket, let it be placed in a cool, but not damp 
room, till it is wanted. When the ripest are gath- 
ered, the rest are to be preserved ; and with respect 
to birds, some lime twigs and trap cages should be 
placed, and lines of feathers hung about the place. 

368. To preserve Aromatic and other Herbs. 

The boxes and drawers in which vegetable mat- 
ters are kept, should not impart to them any smell or 
taste; and more certainly to avoid this, they should 
be lined with paper. Such as are volatile, of a deli- 
cate texture, or subject to suffer from insects, must 
be kept in well covered glasses. Fruits and oily seeds, 
which are apt to become rancidy must be kept in a 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 1 89 

cool and dry, but by no means in a warm or moiit 
place. 

369. To preserve Grapes till Winter. 

About September, when grapes are nearly ripe, 
procure some bags made either of crape, muslin, 
gauze or white^ paper. 

Select some of the best bunches, and with a pair 
ofsharp narrow pointed scissars, cut ofifall small un- 
ripe, rotten, mouldy, or imperfectgrapes, especially 
those eaten by flies or wasps. 

Inclose each bunch in a bag, and tie the bag fast 
with a string, so that no insect can get into it. In 
the middle of a fine day in October, gather them, 
with a piece of the shoot to them, and hang them 
up in a dry warm room. 

Dip the end of the shoots in melted rosin or seal- 
ing wax. Examine them frequently, lest they 
should get mouldy or rotten. 

370. Walnut Ketchup. 

Take half a bushel of green walnuts, before the 
sliell is formed, and grind theip in a crab mill, or 
beat them ih^a marble rnortar ; then squeeze out 
the juices through a coarse cloth, and wring the 
cloth well to get all the juice out, and to every gal- 
lon of juice put a quart of red wine, a quarter of a 
pound of anchovies, the same of bay salt, one ounce 
of allspice, two of long or black pepper, half an 
ounce of cloves and mace, a little ginger and horse- 
radish, cut in slices ; boil all together till reduced 
to half the quantity ; pour into a pan ; when it is 
cold bottle it, corlc it tight, ^nd it will be fit to use 
in three months. If you have any pickle left in the 
jar after your walnuts are used, to every gallon of 
pickle put in two heads of garlic, a quart of red 
wine, an ounce each of cloves and mHce, long, black 
ftnd Jamaica pepper, and boil them altogether till 



190 DOMESTIC ECONOVtr* 

it is redaced to balftbe quantity, pour it ioto a pan ; 
and the next ddy bottle it for use, and cork it tigbt. 

371. To Cork and preserve Cyder in Bottles. 

Good corks are bigbly necessary, and if soaked 
before used in scalding water, they will be tbe more 
pliant and serviceable ; and by laying the bottles 
so that the liquor may always keep tbe cork wet and 
swelled, will much preserve it. 

372. To make excellent Punch, 

One tea-spoonful of Cox welPs acid salt of lerpons, 
a quarter of a pound of sugar, a quart of water near- 
ly boiling, half a pint of rum, and a quarter of a 
pint of brandy ; a little lemon peel may be added, 
Of in place thereof, a few drops of essence of lem- 
on. 

373. To make a pleasant, sober^ and refreshing 

Drink for the Summer, 

Take one bottle of sherry (but MMcira is pre- 
ferable,) two bottles of cyder, one of perry, and 
one gill of brandy; and after those ingredients are 
mixed, take two lemons, pare the rind as thin as 
possible ; then splice the lemons, and put tbe rind 
and lemons into a cup ; to these add a little grated 
nutmeg and powdered sugar, to make it palatable ; 
stir them together ; then toast a biscuit very brown, 
and throw it hot into the liquor. It is generally 
found a pleasant draught at dinner, and produces 
no bad effects on those who drink it in moderation. 

374. To make the German Liquor Mum. 

Mum is made of various sorts of grain, in the fol- 
Jowing proportions : to seven bushels of wheaten 
malt, add one bushel of oatmeal, one busbel^af 
ground beans, and a variety of other articles, as 
the tops of fir, wild thyme, &c. ; also ten new laid 
eggs. These articles ought to be infused ioto six- 
ty-three gallons of water boiled down to forty*ODe« 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 191 

375. To make the celebrated Eastern Beverage, call' 

ed Sherbet. 

This liquor is a species of negus without the 
wine. It consists of water, lemon or orange juice, 
and sugar, in which are dissolved perfumed cakes, 
made of the best Damascus fruit, and containing 
also an infusion of some drops of rose-water : an- 
other kind is made of violets, honey, juice of rai- 
sins, &c. It is well calculated for assuaging thirst, 
as the acidity is agreeably blended with sweetness. 
It resembles, indeed, those fruits. which we find so 
grateful when one is thirsty. 

376. To make Birch-tree Wine. 

The vernal sap of the birch-tree is made into 
wine. In the beginning of March, while the sap is 
rising, holes must be bored i& the body of the tree, 
and fassets, made of elderv placed in them, to 
convey away the liquid. If the tree be large it 
may be tapped in several places at a time, and 
thus, according to the number of trees, the quantity 
of liquid is obtained. The sap is to be boiled with 
sugar, in the proportion of four pounds to a gallon, 
and treated in the same manner as other made 
wines. 

One great advantage attaching to the birch is, 
that it will grow on almost any barren ground. 

377. Currant Wine, 

Gather your currants on a fine day, when the 
fruit is full ripe, steep them^ put them in a large 
pan, and bruise them with a wooden pestle ; let 
them stand in a pan or tub twenty-four hours to fer- 
ment, then run it through a hair sieve, and do- not 
let your hand touch the liquor ; to every gallon of 
this Ii(juor put two pounds and a half of white su- 
gar, stir it well together, and put it into your ves- 
sel. To every jix gallons put in a quart of bran- 
djj and let it stand six weeks ; if it is fine, bottle 



19^ DeifBSTIC ECONOMY. 

v 

it ; if it is not, draw it off as clear as you can into 
another vessel, or large bottles, and in a fortnight 
bottle it into smaller bottles. 

378. Elder Wine. 

Pick the elder-berries when full ripe ; put them 
into a stone jar, and set them in the oven, or a ket- 
tle of boiling water, till the jar is hot through ; then 
take them out anii strbin them through a coarse 
cloth, wringing the berries, and put the juices into 
a clean kettle ; to every quart of juice put a pound 
of fine Lisbon sugar ; let it boil, and skim it well ; 
when it is clear and fine pour it into a jar ; when 
cold cover it close, and keep it till you make raisin 
wine ; and to every gallon of wine put half a pint ^ 

elder syrup. 

• _ 

379. Grape Wine. 

To every gallon of ripe grapes put a gallon of soft 
water, bruise the grapes, let them stand a week 
without stirring, and draw the liquor off fine ; to 
every gallon of wine put three pounds of lump 
sugar ; put it into a vessel, but do not stop it till it 
has done hissing, then stop it close, and in six 
months it will be fit to bottle. 

A better wine, though smaller in quantity, will 
be made by leaving out the water, and diminishing 
the quantity of sugar. Water is only necessary 
where the juice is so scanty or so thick, as in cow- 
slip, balm, or black currant wine, that it could not 
be used .without it. Very good wine, after keep- 
ing for twelve months, has been made by adding a 
proper quantity of sugar to grapes which wei^ so 
bard that it was necessary to burst them over the 
fire to get out the juice. 

380. Jln Excellent Family Wine 

May be made of equal parts of red, whites and 
black currants, ripe cherries, and raspberriei, well 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY* 193 

I 

bruised, and mixed with soft water, in the propor- 
tion of four pounds of fruit to one gallon of water. 
When strained and pressed, three pounds of nioist 
sugar are to be added to each gallon of liquid. Af** 
ter standing open three dajs, during which it is to 
be stirred frequently, and scum it as it may require, 
it is to be put into a barrel, and left for a fortnight 
to work, when a ninth part of brandy is to be ad- 
ded, and the whole bunged down ; and in two 
or three years it will be rich and valuable. 

38 1 . To extract Syrup from Indian Com. 

The young spikes, when they are beginning to 
form, possess a very agreeable saccharine taste. 
Ten pounds of them squeezed in a stone mortar, 
and the juice expressed, after the leaves are strip- 
ped off, will give about four pounds of a milky 
juice, which, when clarified, and evaporated to the 
consistence of a syrup, will be found very agreea- 
ble to the palate. This vegetable will grow in 
England from the seed sown in good soil. 

382. Excellent Bitter for the Stomach* 

• 

One ounce of gentian root sliced, one ounce of 
fresh rind of lemon, two drams of cardamom 
seeds bruised, three dran>s of Seville orange peel ; 
pour a pint and a half of boiling water over the in- 
gredients, let it stand an hour, then decant the 
clear liquor, and take a wine glass full two or three 
times a day. 

It should be kept closely covered after the water 
is put in the ingredients. 

383. To detect Sugar of Lead in Wines. 

The tincture of orpiment converts wine so adul- 
terated to a black colour. 

R 



194 BOMESTIC ECONOMT, 

384. A Test for discovering in Winty Mttah thai 
are injurious to ike Health. 

The property of liver ofsulphuri and of hepatic 
gas, in precipitating lead of a hiack colour, has 
heen long known ; and that property has been made 
use of to ascertain the goodness of wine, in the 
preparation of the liquor probatorius Wuriember- 
giensis* 

But in trying wines which we suspect to be adul- 
terated, that proof does more harm than good ; be- 
•cause it precipitates the iron of the same colour 
with the pernicious lead ; by which means, some 
dealers of respectable characters have been ruined. 

It was wanting, therefore, to 6nd an agent which 
would discover nothing in wine but what was pre- 
judicial to health. This is accomplished by the 
following test, which precipitates lead and copper 
of a black colour, arsenic of an orange colour, &c. 
but does not iron, which being innocent, or rather 
salutary, ta the human constitution, gets into a 
great number of different sorts of wine by various 
accidents. 

Receipt for the Test Liquor. — Mix equal parts of 
oyster shells, and crude sulphur reduced to a fine 
powder, and put the mixture in a crucible. Heat 
this in a wind furnace, and suddenly raise the heat 
till the crucible is exposed to a white heat for fifteen 
minu.tes. When the mass is cool, reduce it to pow- 
der, and keep itin a bottle well corked. 

To make the liquor, put 120 grains of this pow- 
der ajid 180 grains of cream of tartar into a strong 
bottle full of common water, which has been boiled 
for an hour, and suffered to cool. Cork the bottle 
immediately, and shake it from time to time. After 
having stood a few hours, pour off what is clear of 
the liquor into ounce phials, after having previous- 
ly put into each of them twenty drops of spirit of 
sea salt ; and then stop them well with wax mixed 
with a little turpentine. 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 196 

One part of this liquor, mixed with three parts 
of wine adulterated, will discover, by a very sensi- 
ble black precipitate, the smallest quantity of lead, 
copper, &c. but will have no effect on any iron it 
may contain. When the precipitation is made, iron 
may be discovered by saturating the wine remain- 
ing, when poured off, with a little salt of tartar, 
when the liquor becomes instantly black. 

Pure wines remain perfectly clear after the addi- 
tion of this liquor. 

385. Substitute for Soap^ easily prepared m small 
qwintities^ by private families in the country m 

Collect, before the time of seeding, thistles, 
nettles, fern, and such other weeds as usually infest 
the borders of high roads and hedges, and bum 
them in a large heap, gradually, till the whole are 
consumed, and carefully preserve the ashes in a 
dry place, ready to make the ley wanted for the 
purpose of making a substitute for soap. 

The requisite materials and utensils should be 
prepared, which are but few in number. They 
consist, 1st, Of a small tub of white-wood, nine 
inches in width, and as many in height. This tub 
should be perforated near the bottom ; its use is for 
mixing the leys. (Were it made of oak, it would 
colour the leys.) 2d, A small copper basin, with 
a round bottom, a foot in diameter, and seven or 
eight inches in depth ; or where this cannot be pro- 
cured, an iron pot, or earthen vessel, that can 
bear the fire, may be used. This vessel is intend- 
ed for boiling the mixture. 3d, For this small 
manufacture are finally required a skimmer, a spa- 
tula of white wood, and two earthen pans. 

The materials necessary are, 1, some good ash- 
es ; 3, lime ; and 3, oil, tallow, or kitchen fat. 

Method of preparing the Leys. 
Take three pounds of ashes and one pound of 



196 DOMESTIC "ECONOXT. 

lime. First, moisten the lime with a small qaaDti- 
ty of water, in order to slack it ; and after it has 
completely crumbled down, mix it with the ashes, 
and put this mixture into the tub, having previously 
spread a piece of canvass at the bottom ; care- 
fully close the hole at the bottom of the tub ; after 
which pour upon the mateiials a quantity of water 
sufficient to soak it well through, and rise above it 
in the vessel, to the height of about three finger 
breadths. Then stir it well with a stick, and suf- 
fer it to stand for some hours ; then open the hole, 
in order to let the ley run off, which is collected 
and kept by itself. This is the first ley ; then a- 
gain put fresh water in the tub, stir the materials 
with a stick, let them stand for some hours, and 
then draw off the second ley, which is also kept 
separate ; the third ley is obtained in the same man- 
ner, by pouring fresh water upon the remainder of 
the ashes, which will now have been sufficiently 
exhausted of its saline particles. 

Take equal quantities of the first ley, and of kitch- 
en fat, tallow, or oil, and melt them together in 
your copper basin, over a gentle fire, till they are 
well incorporated, by constantly sigitating them 
with your wooden spatula. When the ley and 
grease are well united, you may add more ley of 
the second quality,* and digest them some time 
with a gentle heat, till the mixture is completed, 
taking care to stir it well all the time ; then pour it 
into your earthen pans to cool and preserve for use. 
A few trials will enable you to make it in a perfect 
manner ; and a little of this composition will be 
found to answer all the purposes of soap for family 
use. The surplus ley of tne stronger kinds may 
be preserved for future use, and the weakerley will 
serve to put upon fresh ashes on a future occasion ; 
or a little of any of these leys will form a useful 
steep, with a considerable quantity of warm water. 



D0M£5TIC CCONOMV. 1^7 

for the dirty plain linen intended to be washed, but 
will be too strong for printed calicoes or dyed arti- 
'oles. 

386 To make Jamaica Vegetable Soap. 

This soap is prepared from the great American 
aloe, in the following manner : — The large sacco- 
lent leaves being cut, are passed between the rol- 
lers of a mill, with their point foremost, and the 
juice being conducted into wide, shallow receivers, 
through a coarse cloth or strainer, lies exposed to 
a hot sun, till it is reduced to a thick consistence. 
It is then made up into balls, with ley ashes, to pre- 
vent it from sticking to the fingers ; after which it 
may be kept for years, and serve for use, as well 
as Castile soap, in washing linen ; but it has the 
superior quality of mixing and forming a lather with 
salt water as well as fresh* 

Another method of preparing this soap is, by cut- 
ting the leaves in pieces, pounding them in a large 
wooden mortar, and then expressing the juice, which 
is brought afterwards to a consistence, either by 
the sun or by boiling. One gallon of this juice, 
thus prepared, will yield abo.ut one pound, avoir- 
dupois, of asoft extract. It will answer prepared 
in either of these ways, provided the juice, before 
exposure to the sun or fire, be very carefully strain-, 
ed from the bruised fibres, and other membrane of 
the leaves. The extract must never be compound- 
ed with .tallow, or any other unctuous materials, 
for such mixtures destroy its effect. 

The leaves are used for scouring pewter and 
other kitchen utensils, and also for floors. 

387. To make Lady Derby^s Soap. 

Two ounces of bitter almonds blanched, one 
ounce and a quarter of tincture of benjamin, one 
pound of good plain white soap, and one piece of 
4:amphorthe size of a walnut. The almoiids and 

R 3 



198 DOMESTIC Ecovonr. 

camphor are to be beaten in a mortar until t^ey are 
completely mixed; then work up with them the 
tincture of benjamin. The mixture being perfect- 
ly made, work the soap iqto it in the same manner. 
If the smell is too powerful of the camphor and tinc- 
ture of benjamin, melt the soap by the fire, and the 
perfume will go off. This soap has been tried by 
many persons of distinction, is excellent in its 
qualities for cleansing the skin, and will be found 
greatly to assist the complexion, the ingredients 
being perfectly safe, and free from those perni- 
cious properties that are mostly incorporated with 
other soap. 

388. To make British Herb Tea. 

Take of hawthom leaves, dried, two parts, sage 
and balm one part; mix these well together, and 
they will make an excellent and pleasant sanative 
tea, particularly wholesome to nervous people. 

389. British Substitute/or Foreign Tea. 

Betony, if gathered when just going to flower, 
has the taste of tea, and all the good qualities of it, 
without the bad ones, and moreover, it cures in- 
veterate head- aches. 

390. .Another. 

Make an infusion of ground ivy, which is very 
agreeable in flavour, especially if you add to it a 
drop or two of lemon juice. It is reported by ma- 
ny, that the habitual use of this herb will cure the 
most obstinate consumption. It is certainly a good 
pectoral, and when green is fragrant ; if mixed 
with a few flowers of lavender, it makes a most 
agreeable liquor for summer use; and, if gathered 
at a proper time, has an agreeable taste to many, 
but wholesome to all, even when dry. 

391. Another. 

Balm, or lemon balm alone, or with sage, is much 



DOHBSTIC BCOKOMY* 199 

recommeDded, with a few flowers of lavender.; it 
has a most delicious flavour and taste, but ia most 
agreeable when green. 

392. Tht virtues of Sage. 

This valuable herb was held in such high esteem 
among the ancients, that they have left osa Latin 
verse, which signifies, 

•• Why skoold a mma die wbUat lie faM aftfe in his g«rdeii 7** 

It is reckoned admirable as a cordial, and to 
sweeten and cleanse the blood. It is good in ner- 
vous cases, and is given in fevers, with a view to 
promote perispiration. With the addition of a little 
lemon juice, it is very grateful and cooling ; some 
choose to take it dry, alleging that the surface of 
the leaves of green sage abound with animalcules, 
which are very visible through a microscop.e, and 
so there are in many articles of common (bod ; but 
we may be assured, even if this is the case, that as 
they are nourished with the sage, they are of no 
harm, and at all evepts, a little hot water will des- 
troy them. 

■393. To prevent excessive Thirst in cases ofEmer- 
gency at Sea^ in the Summer Time* 

When thirst is excessive, as is often the case in 
summer time during long voyages, avoid, if possible^ 
^ven in times of the greatest necessity^ the drinking 
of salt water to allay the thirst, but rather keep 
thinly ciad, and frequently dip^in the sea, which 
will appease both hunger and thirst for a long time, 
and prevent the disagreeable sensation of swallow* 
tng salt water. 

394. To preserve Eggs smindfor the space of Two 

Years, 

For the following process, for keeping and pre- 
serving eggs perfectly sound, a patent was granted 



.-*^ 



300 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

in Febraarj, 1791, to Mr. Jayne, of Sheffield, 
Yorkshire : 

Put into a tub or vessel one bushel, Winchester 
measure, of quicklime, thirty-two ounces of salt, 
<^ight ounces of cream of tartar, and mix the same 
together with as much water as will reduce the com- 
position, or mixture, to that consistence, that it 
will cause an egg put into it to swim with its top just 
above the liquid : then put, and keep the eggs 
therein, which will preserve them perfectly sound 
for the space of two years at the least. 

This method is not the worse for being simple, 
and the still simpler one of merely keeping eggs in 
salt, is known by many good housewives to pre- 
serve eggs sound a considerable time. 

395. Manner of preserving Eggs perfectly fresk^ 

for Twelve Months* 

Having provided small casks, like oyster barrels, 
fill them with fresh laid eggs ; then pour into each 
cask, the head of which is supposed to have been 
first taken out, as much cold thick lime-water as 
will fill up all the void spaces between the eggs, and 
likewise completely cover them. The thicker the 
lime-water is the better, provided it will fill up all 
the interstices, and be liquid at the top of the 
cask ; this done, lay on the head of the cask lightly* 
No farther care is necessary, than merely to prevent 
the lime from growing too hard, by adding, occa- 
sionally, a little common water on the surface, 
sbo^jld it seem so disposed, and keeping the casks 
from heat and frost. The e^s, when taken out for 
use, are to be washed from the adhering lime with 
a little cold water, when they will have both the ap- 
pearance and qualities of fresh laid eges, the lime 
preserving them from shrinking or putridity. 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY* 201 

396. Jilanmr of preserving Eggs perfectly fresh, 

for Twelve Mtmths. 

The most simple and easy mode of preserviDg 
eggs Is to rub the outside of the shell as soon as - 
gathered from the nest, with a little butter, or anjr 
other grease that is not fetid. By filling up the 
pores of the shell, the evapoj^tion of the liquid, part 
of the egg is prevented ; and either by thatnoeans,; 
or by excluding the external air, which Four^rc^ !.; 
supposes^ destroys the milkiness which most people..; 
are fond of in new-laid eggs, that milkiness will! be ; 
preserved for months, as perfect as when the egg 
was taken from the nest. 

397. Cream preserved in long Voyages, 

Mix with a quantity of fresh rich cream half it» 
weight of white sugar in powder ; stir the whole 
well together, and preserve it in bottles well cork- 
ed. In this state it is ready to mix with tea or cof- 
fee, and has continued in good conditiop during a 
voyage to America. 

39 8 . Substitute, for Human Milk, zo Aere, from any 
Circumstance, it cannot be procured for Children. 

In a quart of water boil two ounces of hartshorn 
shavings over a gentle fire, till the whole is reduced 
to a pint ; mix this with twice its quantity of cow's 
milk, and (he addition of a little sugar. This forms 
for children a proper aliment, approaching nearly 
to the nature of human milk. 

399. To make Old Man^s Milk : a nuiricious and 

Pleasant Beverage. 

Beat up the yolk of an egg in a bowl or basin, 
and then mix with it some cream or miik^ and a 
littlesugar, accordingto the quantity wanted,and let 
then\ be thoroughly incorporated. A glass of spirits, 
or more, is then to be poured gradually into the mi^- 



202 DOMESTIC ECONOHr. 

ture, so as to prevent the milk or cream from curd- 
ling. This mixture will be fouud useful to travellers 
who are obliged to commence their journey early, 
particularly if the weather be cold and damp. 

400. To make Artificial Asses'^ Milk. 

Two ounces of pearl barley, two ounces of harts- 
horn shavings, three ounces of Eringo root candied, 
nine garden snails ; boil these in six quarts of spring 
water till it comes to three ; put two spoonfuls of 
cow's milk into half a pint of the above, and drink 
it lukewarm about half an hour before you rise in 
the morning* 

N. B. You may l^ave out the snails if you do not 
like them, but it is best to use them. 

401. To prevtni disagreeable Smells from Privies. 

Night Chaiiis^ <5'c. 

Milk of lime (water in which lime has been slack- 
ed, and which is whitened by the fine particles of 
that substance) must be mixed with a ley of ashes, 
or sopxpy water that has been used in washing, then 
thrown into the sink of the privy, it will destroy the 
ofibnsive smell. By these means, for the value of a 
few pence, any collection of filth whatever may be 
neutralized. 

For the night chair of sick persons, put within 
the vessel half a pound of quicklime, half an ounce 
of powdered sal-ammoniac, and water one pint: 
this will prevent any disagreeable odour. 

Remark, — Quicklime, or even lime just slacked, 
answers tbr^ purpose without any addition. It is the 
only thing used in camps, particularly in hot coun- 
tries, to keep the ditches from creating contagion. 

402. To free Molasses from their sharp Taste^ and 
to render them ft to be used instead of Sugar* 

Take twenty-four pounds of molasses, twenty- 
four pounds of water, and six pounds of charcoaK 



DOaiESTIC ECONOMY. 203 

coarsely pulverized ; mix them in a kettle, and boil 
the whole over a slow wood fire. When the mix- 
ture has boiled half an hour, pour it into a flat vea* 
sel, in order that the charcoal may subside to the 
bottom ; then pour off the liquid, and place it over, 
the fire once more, that the superfluous water may 
evaporate, and the rAoIasses brought to their former 
consistence. Twenty-four pounds of molasses will 
produce twenty four pounds of syrup. 

This method has been employed on a large 
scale, with the happiest effects ; the molasses be- 
come sensibly milder, and can be employed in ma- 
ny articles of food ; though in dishes, where milk fs 
used, or for cordials mixed with spices, sugar is to 
, be preferred. 

403. To destroy Bugs. 

Take of the highest rectified spirits of wine, (viz. 
lamp spirits) that will burn away dry, and leave 
not the least moisture behind, half a pint ; new dis- 
tilled oil, or spirits, of turpentine, half a pint ; mix 
them together, and break into it, in small bits, half 
an ounce of camphor, which it will dissolve in a few 
minutes ; shake them well together, and with a 
sponge, or a brush, dipt in some of it, wet very well 
the bed or furniture wherein these vermin harbour 
and breed, and it will infallibly kill and destroy 
both them and their nits, although they swarm 
ever so much. But then the bed or furniture must 
be well and thoroughly wet with it, (the dust upon 
them being first brushed and shook off) by which 
means it will neither stain, soil, or in the least hurt 
the finest silk or damask bed that is. The quantity 
here ordered of this curious neat white mixture, 
which costs about a shilling, will rid any one bed 
whatever, though it swarms with bugs. Do but 
touch a live bug with a drop of it, and you will find 
it die immediately ; if any should happen to a^- 



904 BOMBSTIC ECONOMY. 

pear, after once using, it will only be for want of 
well wetting the lacing, &c. of the bed, or the fold- 
ings of the linings or curtains, near the rings, or the 
joints, or holes in and about the bed or head-board 
wherein the bugs or nits nestle and breed, and then 
their being well wet altogether again, with more of 
the same mixture, which dries in as fast as you use 
it, pouring some of it into the joints or holes where 
the sponge or brush cannot reach, will never fail 
absolutely to destroy them all. Some beds, that 
have much wood work, can hardly be thoroughly 
cleaned without first being taken down ; but others 
that can be drawn out, or that you can get well be- 
hind to be done as it should be, may. 

Note. — The smell this mixture occasions will be 
gone in two or three days, which is yet very whole- 
some, and to many people agreeable. You must 
remember always to shake the liquor together very 
well whenever you use it, which must be in the day- 
time, not by candlelight, lest the subtlety of the 
mixture should catch the flame as you are using it, 
and occasion damage. 

404. Another. 

Thn risk of bugs in a large city is inevitable ; the 
clothes-box of servants, the going to a public-place, 
or in a public-carriage, or the insect being blown 
against the apparel while walking the streets, may 
introduce it into the house. But to cleanly people, 
whose beds are examined, and the joints oiled with 
pure sweet oil three or four times a year, they can- 
not become troublesome ; except what no person 
can be secure against, they should succeed in the 
occupation of a house, a filthy, though perhaps a 
very fine predecessor, who has permitted the ani- 
mal to entrench itself in the walls and the ceiling. 

In such a situation the chimney and the windows 
were pasted up airtight, and after a mixture of pow- 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 205 

der of brimstone and «a1t-petre, (as used by the 
makers of vitriolic acid) was set fire to with pro- 
per precaution, in an earthen pan and sand, the doors 
were shut, and the joints pasted up. The remedy, 
and in such a case it was thought proper to fumi- 
gate all the rooms, was effectual. Coloured hang* 
ings, &c. which the gas might hurt, were. removed 
to the bedding, and to wood it does no injury. 
' There is however some difficulty in forming such 
a quantity of vitriolic acid gaa, which is heavy and 
not very expansible, as completely to penetrate the 
crevices of the room in which the insects harbour. 
As the oxymuriatic gas is at least as strong a poison 
to animals as the vitriolic, there is no reason to an- 
ticipate that it is liot equally so to the bug, and it 
is much more easily applied and more expansible. 
It ia likely to answer, but there has been no similar 
opportunity of trying it. Coloured hangings should 
be removed} as though that gas will not afiebt com- 
pletely oxidated metallic dyes, it will bleach o^ 
whiten the vegetable colours. After some hours' fu- 
migation, the doors and windows should be thrown 
open, without breathing, or as little as possible, the 
air of the rooms. The remaining gas will then be 
dissipated more quickly than the vitriolic. 

405. Economy in Fuel.^ 

A saving of nearly one-third of the coal consum- 
ed in London may be made by the following easy 
means: — Let the coal ashes,, which are* usually 
thrown into the dust bin, be preserved in a corner 
of the coal hole, and make your servants to add to 
them from your coal heap, an equal part of the 
small coal or slack, which is too small to be retain- 
ed in the grate, and pour a small quantity of water 
upon the mixture. When you make up your fire, 
place a few round coals in front, and throw some 
of this mixture behind ; it saves the troublo of sift- 

S 



iOG DOtf£$TIC ECONOMY. 

ing your ashes, gives a warm and pleasant fire, and 
a very small part only will remain unburnt* 

406. Another methodm 

In managing your fires during the day, first lay 
on a shovel-full of the dust and ashes from under the 
grate, then a few coals, more ashes, and afterwards 
a few more coals, and thus proceed till your grate is 
properly filled, placing a few round coals in front. 
You will find that the ashes retain the heat better 
than coals alone ; you will have less smoke, a plea- 
sant fire, and a very little waste left at night. 

407. Economy in Tinder, 

The very high price of paper, at present, ren- 
ders the saving of even the smallest quantity o 
linen or cotton rags of consequence, as they sell 
very dear ; trifling as it may be thought, yet it will 
be found that a considerable quantity of rags may 
be saved in a family, by using as tinder for lighting 
matches the contents of the common snufiers col- 
lected in the course of the evening. 

408. Plate Powder. 

In most of the articles sold as plate powders, un- 
der a variety of names, there is an injurious mix- 
ture of quicksilver, which is said sometimes so far to 
penetrate and render silver brittle, that it will even 
break with a fall. Whitening, properly purified from 
sand, applied wet, and rubbed till dry, is one of the 
easiest, safest, and certainly the cheapest of all plate 
powders ; jewellers and silversmiths, for small arti- 
cles, seldom use any thing else. If, however, the 
plate be boiled a little in water, with an ounce of 
calcined hartshorn in powder to about three pints of 
water, then drained over the vessel in which it was 
boiled, and afterwards dried by the fire, while some 
soft linen rags are boiled in the liquid till they have 
wholly imbibed it, these rags will, when dry, not 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 207 

only assist to clean the pldte, which must afterwards 
be rubbed bright with leather, but also serve adini-^ 
rably for cleaning brass locks, finger plates, &c. 

409. Usefulness of Clivers^ or Goose Grass, 

Young geese are very fond of the branches of 
this plant ; the seeds may be used instead of coffee. 
The expressedjuiceof the stems and leaves, taken 
to the amount of four ounces night and morning, 
is very efficacious in removing many of those cuta- 
neous eruptions, which are called, though impro* 
perly, scorbutic : but it must be continued for se- 
veral weeks. 

410. Important uses of the Leaves of the Vine. 

From experiments made by Sir James Hall, it 
has been found that the leaves of the vine, dried in 
the shade, make an excellent and extremely whole- 
some tea, though differing in (aste and flavour froiti 
that commonly used. Besides, also being admirably 
calculated for making vinegar, the prunings of the 
vine, on being bruised and put into a vat or mash- 
ing tub, and boiling water poured on them, in the 
same way as is done with malt, will produce a liquor 
of a fine vinous quality ; which, being fermented, 
forms a substitute for beer ; and which, on being 
distilled, produce a good spirit of the nature of 
brandy. 

411. Valuable properties of Cherry- tree Gum. 

The gum that exudes from the trunk and branches 
of the cherry-tree is equal to gum arabic. Hassel- 
quist relates that, during a siege, more than an hun- 
dred men were kept alive for two months nearly, 
without any other sustenance than a little of this 
gum taken into the mouth sometimes, and suffered 
gradually to dissolve. 

412. Valuable properties of the Helianthus Jlnnuus^ 

or Sun Flower. 
The seeds afford a good eatable oil ; the stalk. 



208 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

potash, when burned like those of Turkish corn. 
From the large quantity of pith in the stalks, paper 
may be made. 

The youn^ stalks are eaten at Frankfort on the 
Maine as greens ; and the old are used as fire wood. 

4 1 3. Remedies against Fleas. 

Fumigation with brimstone, or fre^h leaves of 
penny royal sewed in a bag, and laid in the bed, 
will have the desired effect. 
514. Fly Water. 

Most of the fly waters, and other preparations 
commonly sold for the destruction of flies, are 
variously disguised poisons, dangerous and even fa- 
tal to the human species ; such as solutions of mer- 
cury, arsenic, &c. mixed with honey or syrup. The 
following preparation, however, without endanger- 
ing the lives of children, or other incautious per- 
sons, is not less fatal to flies than even a solution 
of arsenic. Dissolve two drams of the extract of 
quasia, in half a pint of boiling water ; and adding 
a little sugar, or syrup, pour the mixture on plates. 
To this enticing food the flies are extremely partial, 
and it never fails to destroy them. 

415. To niake a wholesome Food of Cashezo Kuis. 

Cashew nuts may be prepared as food, by blanch- 
ing them with hot water to wash off the caustic oil, 
or roasting them in a pot like coffee, but care must 
be taken to avoid Vne smoke, which is very acrid. 
They, may also be prepared by sticking them on a 
fork, and burning them at a candle. The oil of 
the shell is abundant, and thoroughly roasts the 
kernel within. The kernel of the fresh cashew 
nut is made into an emulsion, like almonds, and 
universally used in the West Indies. 

4 1 6. Economy m Candles. 

In such candlesticks as are not made to slide, the 
candles are frequently permitted to burn in tht 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY, 209 

socket to great waste, and to the injury of the 
candlestick ; this may be prevented by taking out 
early the short piece of candle, placing it betwixt 
three common pins stuck in an old cork, and put- 
ting the cork in the candlestick. 
. Or rather give a penny for that ingenious utei)- 
sil, a save-all. It is at least as cheap, and prevents 
the risk of setting fire to the house. 

417. Curious small cakes of Incense for perfuming 

Apartments. 

. Take equal quantities of lignum rhodium, and 
anise, in powder, with a little powder of dried Se- 
ville orange peel, and the same of gum benzoin, 
or benjamin, and beat all together in a marble 
mortar. Then, adding some gum dragon, or tra- 
gacanth, dissolved in rose water, put in a little ci- 
vet ; beat the whole again together, make up tiiis 
mixture into small cakes, and place them on paper 
to dry. One of these cakes being burnt in the lar- 
gest apartment, will diffuse a most agreeable odour 
through the whole room. 

418. To prevent the disagreeable smell arising from 

House Drains* 

As the diffusion^ of this noxious matter, within 
our dwellings, tends to produce disease and mor- 
tality, itcannot be too generally known that a cheap 
' and simple apparatus has been contrived for carry- 
ing off the waste water, &c. of sinks, and which 
at the same time prevents the possibility of any air 
returning back into the house from thence, or from 
any drain which noay be connected with it. It is 
known by the name of a stink trap^ and may be had 
at any of the ironmongers. 

419. Polished Tea Urns preferable to varnished 

ones. 

Polished tea urns may be kept bovlvw^ ^\>^ ^ 



210 DOMESTIC ECOKOMY. 

much less expense of spirits of wine than sach as 
are varnished ; and the cleaner and brighter the 
dishes, and covers for dishes, which are used, for 
bringing victuals to table, and for keeping it hot, 
the more effectual will they answer that purpose. 

420. Management of Razor Straps. 

Most razor straps are spoiled by being left too 
dry ; a drop or two of sweet oil, frequently added 
to the strap, would remedy this : and, after using 
the strap, passing the razor on the inside of a warm 
hand, gives the smoothest and finest edge ; putting 
the razor in warm water makes it cut very keen, 
and perhaps nothing makes a better razor strap 
than crocus martis, with a little sweet oil rubbed 
well on leather with a glass bottle. 

42} • Essence of Soap for shaving or washing hands. 

Take a pound and a half of fine white soap in 
thin slices, and add thereto two ounces of salt of 
tartar ; mix them well together, and put this mix- 
ture into one quart of spirits of wine, in a bottle 
which will hold double the quantity of the ingre- 
uients ; tie a bladder over the mouth of the bottle, 
and prick a pin through the bladder ; set it to digest 
in a gentle heat, and shake the contents from time 
to time, taking care to take out the pin at such 
times to allow' passage for the air from within; 
when the soap is dissolved, filter the liquor through 
]»aper, to free it from impurities; then scent it 
with a little bergamot or essence of lemon. It 
will have the appearance of fine oil, and a small 
c.Mantity will lather with water like soap, and is 
much superior in use for washing or shaving. 

422. Composition for shaving, roithout the use of 

Razor, Soap, or Water. 
Mix one pint and a half of clear lime water, two 
ounces of gum arabic,half an ounce of isinglass, an 



DOMESTIC ECONOMT. 211 

eighth of aa ounce of cochineal, a quarter of an 
ounce of turmeric root (made into powder,) an 
eighth of an .ounce of salt of tartar, and an eighth 
of an ounce of cream of tartar, together ; boil them 
for one hour at least (stirring up the mixture during 
the whole time of boiling, and be careful not to let 
it boil over) clear it through a sieve ; then add two 
pounds and a half of pumice-stone, finely pulveriz- 
ed ; mix the whole together, with the hands, into 
one cake, by the assistance of the white of two eggs, 
well stirred up. Then divide the cake, so made, 
into twelve smaller cakes ; dry them in the open 
air for three days ; put them into an oven of mode- 
rate heat, for twenty-four hours, when they will be 
completely dry and fit for use. Apply them with a 
gentle friction to the beard, and they will produce 
the complete effect of shaving, by rubbing off the 
hair. 

423. To prevent i^ccidents from having a poker 

in the Fire. 

The following invention is equally simple and 
secure. Immediately above that square part of the 
poker, by blacksmiths called the bit, let a small 
cross of iron, about an inch and a half each way, be 
welded in. 

The good consequences of this simple contrivance 
will be — Ist. If the poker, by the fire giving, way, 
should slip out, it will probably catch on the edge 
of the fender. 

2d. If it should not, it cannot injure the hearth 
or carpet, as the hot part of the poker will be borne 
up some inchos. 

And 3d. The poker cannot be run into the fire 
further than the bit, which in regard to a polished 
poker, is also of some consequence. 

424. Economical mode of cutting Cauliflower, 
Instead of cutting off the whole head of a.c^^\Vv 



312 DOMESTIC ECONOMY* 

flower, leave a part on, of the size of a gooseberry, 
and all the leaves ; second, aud even third heads 
will be formed, and thus they may be eaten for two 
or three months ; when, at presenj, by cutting the 
bead completely off, the bed of cauliflowers are gone 
in two or three weeks. They should be planted in 
good moist ground, and treated in the same manner 
as celery. 

425. Substitute for Milk or Crtam* 

Where cream or milk cannot be got, it is an ex- 
cellent substitute to beat up the whole of a fresh 
egg, in a basin, and then gradually to pour boiling 
tea over it, to prevent its curdling. It is difficult, 
from the taste, to distinguish the composition from 
tea and rich cream. This might be of great use at 
sea, as eggs qiay be preserved fresh in various 
ways. 

A26. Necessary Hints to those toho use Copper Ves- 
sels for Culinary Purposes, 

In domestic economy the necessity of keeping 
copper vessels always clean is generally acknow- 
ledged ; but it may not perhaps be so generally 
known, that fat and oily substances, and vegetable 
acids, do not attack copper while hot : and, there- 
fore, that if no liquid be ever sufiered to grow cold 
in copper vessels, those utensils may be used for 
every culinary purpose, with perfect safety. 

Dr. Johnstone relates the shocking case of three 
men who died, after excruciating sufierings, in con- 
sequence of eating some victuals prepared in an un- 
clean copper on board the Cyclops frigate. — Thirty 
three other men became ill, and were put upon 
the sick-list, at the same ^ time, and from the same 
cause. 

Dr. Percival gives ajn account of a young lady 
who amused herself, VThile her hair was dressing, 
m'th eating samphire pickle impregnated with cop- 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 213 

per. She soon complained of pain in the stonnach, 
and in five days TOfniting commenced, which was 
incessant for two dajs. After this her stomach be- 
CJtme prodigiously distended ; and in nine days 
after eating the pickle, death relieved her from her 
suflferingg. 

427. To prevent Lamps from being pernicious to 
Asthmatic Persons, or others, liable to Complaints 
of the Chest* 

Let a sponge, three or four inches in diameter, be 
moistened with pure water, and in that state be sus- 
per.ded by a string or wire, exactly over the flame 
of the lamp, at the distance of a few inches ; this 
substance will absorb all the smoke emitted during 
the evening or night, after which it should be rins- 
ed in warm water, by which means it will be again 
rendered fit for use. 

428. To make economical Wicks for Lamps. 

When using a lamp with a flat wick, if you take 
a piece of clean cotton stocking, it will answer the 
purpose as well as the cotton wicks which are sold 
in the shops. 

429. Useful properties of Celandine* 

The juice of this plant cures tetters and ring- 
worms, destroys warts, and cures the itch. 

430. Economical use of Roots of Trees. 

In many parts of England and Scotland, trees are 
cut down above the surface of the earth, leaving 
the stumps an incumbrance to the ground, when 
they might be rooted up to advantage, if used in the 
following manner : — Dig out these butt ends, or 
stumpS;, and with a common auger, bore a hole in 
their centre, about six or nine inches deep, into 
which put a charge of powder of throe or four ijDch- 
es ; then fill up the space above it by au iron screw 



SI 4 BOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

of the same dimensions, and put a quick match, of 
about eighteen inches long, intoUbe hollow of the 
screw, and set fire thereto,and retire ; the explosion 
will split the log or stump into various pieces, in one 
of which the screw will be found retained. Much 
Taiuable fuel may be thus obtained from the knotty 
roots of oaks, elms, yew trees, &c. 

The screws, and other implements for this pur> 
pose, may be seen at the Society of Arts, in the A- 
delphi, or may be purchased from Mr* Knight, iron- 
monger, Foster* Lane, Cheapside. 

431 . Application of the Roots of Fir»Trtts or Pines, 

The roots or butt-ends of fir-trees, split in the 
manner above-mentioned, will yield a considerable 
quantity of pitch and tar, by the following manage- 
ment : — Make a hole in the earth, a few inches deep, 
on the side of a hill, in which lay a coat of clay, and 
therein pile the fir roots, split as above, and cut to 
the length of not more than three feet, upon bars of 
iron laid above the hole, and the logs piled up at 
the distance of half an inch from each other, and 
each row laid cross«way of the other, to any height 
required, fire is to be set to the top of the pile, and 
as it consumes the wood, the pitch, tar, and rosin 
contained in the wood, melt and run from it into the 
hole below, and from thence by a small trench into 
a large hole^ made several feet deep in the ground, 
to receive these products. 

432. Useful properties of Red Spurge* 

Warts or corns anointed with the juice of this 
plant, presently disappear. A drop of it put into the 
hollow of a decayed and aching toothy destroys the 
nerve, and consequently removes the pain. Some 
people rub it behind the ears that it may "blister, 
and by that means give relijef. 



DRAWING. 315 

433. Paste or food for singing Birds ^ superior to 
the German paste in common use. 

Well mix, or knead together, three pounds of split 
peas, ground or beat to flour, one pound and a half 
each of fine crumbs of bread and coarse sugar, the 
fresh yolks of six raw er^gs, and six ounces ofunsalt- 
ed butter. Putabout a third part of the mixture, at 
a time, in a frying pan, over a gentle fire, and con- 
tinually stir it till it be a little browned, but by no 
means burnt. When the other two parts are thus 
done, and all are become cold, add to the entire quan- 
tity, six ounces of maw seed, with six pounds of good 
bruised hemp seeds separated from the husks. Mix 
the whole well together, and it will be found an 
excellent food for thrushes, red robins, larks, linnets, 
canary birds, finches of the different sorts, and 
mostother singing birds, admirably preserving them 
in song and feather. 



CHAPTER XVI!. 

DRAWING. 



434. To make transparent Paper for Drawing. 

Tracing paper is readily made by taking a sheet 
of very thin silk, or other paper, and rubbing it over 
gently with some soft substance, filled with a mix- 
ture of equal parts of drying oil, and oil of turpen- 
tine, which, beisg suspended and dried, will be 
fit for use in a few days ; or it may be had at any 
of tbe shops. Lay this transparent material on the 
printor drawing to be transferred, and, with a sharp 
black lead peni^il, trace the outlines exactly as they 



316 DRAWINti. 

appear through the paper. If more permanent or 
stronger lines are wished, ink mixed with ox gall 
will be necessary to make it adhere to the oiled 
surface. 

435. To trace Drawings or Prints against the 

Light* 

There are two methods : one to lay the print, 
&c. flat against a pane of glass, with a thin paper 
over it, when the lines appearing through it are to 
be followed by the lead : the other is more conven- 
ient, and consists of a frame inclosing a square of 
glass, supported by legs, on which the paper is laid 
as before, and a candle placed behind the glass. A 
pen and ink may be used in this manner, but they 
cannot in the former instance. 

436. Method of using Tracing Paper. 

Take a piece of the size required, and rub it 
equally over on one side, with black lead, reduced 
to a powder, ti!I the surface will not readily soil a 
finger ; then lay a piece of white paper with the 
leaded side of this paper next to it, under the print ; 
and securing them firmly together with pins at the 
corners, proceed to take the outlines with a blunt 
point, and some degree of pressure, which will 
transfer the lead to the clean paper precisely in the 
direction the point passed over the print ; this may 
be corrected with the black lead pencil, and cleans- 
ed of any soil by the crumbs of stale bread. 

437. To copy Drawings^ ^c. with fixed materials. 

Rub a thin piece of paper thoroughly and equal- 
ly with fresh butter, and after weU dr}'ing it by a 
fire, cover it with black lead, or with carmine, 
lamp-black, or blue bice, on the other side which 
received the butter. When the opention has so far 
succeeded, as that the colour will not adhere to any 
substance passed over it, lay the co.oured surface 



DRAWING. 217 

on white paper, the print oh it, and trace the sub- 
ject through with a point as mentioned in the fore- 
going receipt, 

438. To transfer any impression with Vermillion* 

Mix the colour with hnseed oil in a state suffi- 
ciently fluid to flow from the poiiit of a pen, with 
which let every line of the print be accurately tracp 
ed ; then wet the back of it, and, turning the face 
downwards on clean white dry paper, place the 
other paper on the back, and gently rub or press it 
till it may be supposed the red lines are completely 
transferred to the paper fVom the print* 

439. Transparent Paper* 

Wet some fine paper with a feather on both sides 
with a thin layer of rosin, dissolved in spirits of 
wine. It will then serve to put over any thing you 
wish to take off; 

440. Method of copying a Design* 

Wash the surface of a flat plate of glass with a 
solution of gum-arabic, in water, to which a small 
quantity of vinegar has been added ; or you may 
instead thereof, moisten the surface only with white 
of egg: when dry, lay the uhderside of theglass^ 
which has not been moistened, on the design you 
want to copy, and with a soft red lead pencil trace 
the whole ttiatyou may Wish for. Then, havipg a 
sheet of white paper, properly moistened, lay it 
upon your pencil drawing, and pressing it on the 
glass ; take off the paper before the egg liquor is 
re-dissolved, and you will have your design trans- 
ferred upon the paper from the glass. 

441. To preserve Pencil and Chalk Drazkings* 

1st. Get a pan, or tub, sufliciently spacious to 
admit the drawing horizontally ; fill it with cle^tiw 
water, and run the drawinglV\vov\^\tv>fe»X^v^'2X.' 

T 



218 SllAWfN«« 

tion ; then lay it on something flat to dry. This 
will take off the loose lead. . 

^dly* Fill the same vessel a second time, with 
rather more than one^third new milk, and the re- 
maining part clean water, through which run the 
drawing again horizontally, and leave it to dry as 
before. 

Do not lay the drawing, while wet, on any col- 
oured wood, such as mahogany, &c. which will 
stain the paper in streaks. 

Should milk be scarce, you may mix a little (in 
the proportions above-mentioned,) in a teacup, and 
venture to run the.drawing lightly over with a cam- 
el-hair pencil, the water having already taken off 
the superfluous lead, and, in some degree, fixed ' 
the other : but be particularly light with the pencil, 
never touching the drawing twice in the same place. 

442. Meihod\of netting Pencil Drawings. 

A solution of alum in water, in which the draw- 
ing id to be dipped (not washed on with a brush, as 
it would smear) will answer the purpose extremely 
well. 

443. Wash for preserving Drawings^ made with a 
black lead pencil, or with hard black chalk. 

A thin wash of isinglass will fix either black lead 
or hard black chalk, &c. as to prevent their rub- 
bing out; or the same effect may be produced by 
the simple application of skimmed milk. The best 
way of using the latter, is, to lay the drawing flat 
upon the surface of the milk ; and then, taking it 
up expeditiously, to hang it up by one comer till it 
drains and dries.' The milk must be perfectly free 
from cream, or it will grease the paper. 

444. Easy method of taking off a perfect copy of a 

Print or Drawing. 

Take d, piece of clear lantern horn ; lay it upon 



DRAWING. 219 

■ 

the print or picture you wish to take off; then, with 
a crow-quill dipped in Indian ink, draw every stroke 
of the outline upon the horn ; when dry, breathe 
upon that side of thft horn whereon you made your 
draught, three or fourtipaes, and place it directly 
on a damp piece of clean white paper, with the 
drawn side downwards ; then pressing it bard with 
the palm of your hand, the drawing will stick' to 
your paper, and the horn come off clear. 

445. To make a Drawing Desk^ or Frame. 

Cause a frame to be made of a reasonable size, 
so that a pretty Jarge piece of crown glass may rest 
upon it, supported by a ledge at the bottom part, 
where, by two hinges, it may be fastened to a draw- ' 
er of the $ame dimension, which may. be divided 
to serve for pen, ink, and paper, and other small 
utensils, or instruipents for drawing. To the top 
of the frame fix two stays, by which the frame may 
be raised higher or lower, as occasion may require. 

The manner of using |he frame is thus : lay the 
print or drawing you intend to copy on the glass, 
and fasten a sheet or piece of fine white paper, with 
some wafers or paste, upon it ; if it be in the day- 
time, place the back, after you* have raised the 
frame to a proper height, against the window, but 
if night, put a lamp behind it, and you will see 
every stroke of tbe^print or drawing, which, with 
your pen, you may copy very accurately, and finish 
according to the manner you think proper; if it be 
a solid piece which you intend to copy, then place 
it behind the desk, and having fastened your paper 
in the frame, put the lamp so as to pr^uce a 
strong shade on the object you have before you to 
draw, and you will plainly see to trace the shape 
with your pen, or black lead pencil ; after which, 
shade it in the manner it appears to you without 
the desk* 



220 DROWNING. 

CHAP. XVIII. 

DROWNING. 



446. Method of render ins; assistance to persons in 

danger of Drowning, 

This desirable object appeah attainable by the 
proper use of a man^s hat and pocket handkerchief, 
(which being M the apparatus necessary) is to be 
used thus : Spread the handkerchief on the ground, 
and place a hat, with the brim do^ynwards, on the 
nniddle of the handkerchief; and then tie the hand- 
kerchief round the hat as you vvould tie up a bun- 
dle, keeping the knots as near the centre of the 
crown as may be. Now, by seizing the knots iu 
one hand, and keeping the opening of the hat up- 
wards, a person, without knowing bow to swim, 
may, fearlessly, plunge into the water with what 
may be necessary to save the life of a fellow-crea- 
ture. 

If a person should fall out of a boat, or thf^boat 
upset by going foul of a cable, &c« or should he fall 
off the quays, or indeed fall into any water from 
which he could not extricate himself, but must 
wait some little time for assistance, had he pres- 
ence of mind enough to whip «^his hat, and hold it 
by the brim, placing his fingers withinside the 
crown, and hold it so, (top downwards) he would 
be able, by this method, to keep his mouth well 
above water till assistance should reach him. It of- 
ten happens that danger is descried long before we 
are involved in the peril, and time enough to pre- 
pare the above method ; and a courageous person 
would, in seven instances out of ten, apply to 
them with success; and travellers, in fording riv- 
ers at unknown fords, or where shallows ai^e deceit- 



DYEING. 3S1 

ful, might make ase of these methods ^ith advan* 
tage. 

447. Method of recovering persons apparently, drown' 
edi as recommended by the Humane Society. 

Let those who first discover an unfortunate ob- 
ject in this situation, remove it to some house near, 
place it by the fire, and begin by rubbing it with 
salt, volatiles, &c« and warm flannels, the head a 
little elevated ; never attempting giving any thing, 
by the mouth, till signs of recovery strongly appear, 
and let the person be kept from a crowd of people 
around Ijim. The idea that the. stomach is full of 
water, and thus obviates recovery, is very errone- 
ous and prejudicial, as it is now fully and clearly 
established, that the respiration being impeded is 
the sole cause of the suspension of life, and which 
being restored, the vital functions s^oon recover 
their tone ; and men are frequently lost from the 
absurd custom "of rolling on casks, lifting the feet 
over the shoulders, and the bead falling oif^ the 
ground. 



CHAPTER XIX. 

DTEINQ. 

448. To make a liquid for staining Bone or Wooi 

of different colours. 

Take strong white wine vinegar in a glass ves- 
sel, and put to it filings of copper, with some Ro- 
man vitriol, roach alum, and verdigris, and leai|p 
it thus infused for seven days ; then boil it in some 
vessel, and by putting into it bone, ivory, or wood, 
it will penetrate, and give it a green coleur;^If any 

T 5 



222 DTEINO. 

other colour is required, as red, blue, or yellow, 
put Brazil wood, indigo, Prepcb berries, or auy oth- 
er such colours, to infuse in the vinegar, with a lit> 
tie roach alum. 

449.. ^rt of dyeing or' staining leather gloves^ to re- 
semble the beaiSiful York tan, Limerick dye, <Jrc. 

These different pleasing hues of yellow, brown, 
or tan colour, are readily imparted to leathergloves 
by the following simple process : Steep saffron in 
boiling hot soft water for about twelve hours ; then, 
having slightly sewed up the tops of the gloves,'to 
prevent the dye from staining the insides, wet them 
X)ver'with a sponge or soft brush dipped into the 
liquid. The quantity of saffron, as well as of wa- 
ter, will of course depend on how much dye may 
be wanted ; and their relative proportions^ on the 
depth of colour required. A common teacup will 
contain sufficient in quantity for a'single pair of 
gloves. 

450. To stain wood a fine black* 

Drop a' little oil of vitriol into a small quantity 
of water, rub the same on your wood, then hold it 
to the tire until it becomes a fine black, and, when 
polished, it will be exceedingly beautiful. 

451. To stain wood a beautiful red or mahogany 

colour. 

Place a sqqare piece of •plane-tree wood, a line 
in thickness, into pounded dragon's blood, from the 
Canaries, mixed with oil of turpentine, over the 
fire, in a glass vessel, the wood will slowly assume 
the colour, even before the spirit has volatilised. 
After more than an hour, take the vessel from the 
fire, and let it stand the whole night, when the 
wood \yil appear of a mahogany colour, not merely 
on the surface, but also ta the interior parts. The 



DYEING. 223 

denser fibres will be somewhat less coloured ; but 
this, instead of injuring the beauty of the wood, will 
rather add to it. The red dye can be made strong- 
er or weaker, by taking a greater or less quantity of 
dragon's blood, and by a greater or less degree of 
digestion and boiling. The wood of the plane- 
tree is best for this purpose, because it can be ea- 
sily sawn and polished ; because it has a white col- 
our ;- is neither too hard nor too soft ; has beautiful 
white spots with veins that cross each other ; and 
because artists, who make inlaid works, have loiig 
attempted to colour it by staining. The wood, 
when stained, can very easily be freed from the 
dragon's blood adhering to it, by means of rectified 
spirits of wine. The spirit of turpentine makes 
the wood more compact, and renders it more sua-, 
ceptible of a fine polish. 

452. • To make Kankeen Dye.ty 

Boil equal parts of arnotto and common potash, 
in water, till the whole are dissolved. This will 
produce the pale reddish huff so much in use, and 
sold under the name of Kankeen Dye* 

453. To dye Cotton a fine Buff Colour* 

Let the tw^ist or yarn be boiled in pure water, to 
cleanse it : then wring it#run it through a dilute so- 
lution of iron in the vegetable acid, which printers 
call iron liquor ; wring, and run it through lime wa- 
ter, to raise it ; wring it again, and run it through 
a solution of starch and water ; then wring it once 
more, and dry, wind, warp, and weave for use. 

454. Substitute for Galls in Dyeing and also in 

making Ink. 

> 

. The excrescences on the roots of young oaks 
may be used with advantage as asubsUtute for galls. 
Oak dust has been used in this coufRry \iv&t^^^ ^^ 



<•> 



224 DYiCING. 

galls, to produce a black dye : eo also has a strong 
dedbction of logwood, copperas, and gum arable. 

455. Easy method of dy ting Yellow or Green. 
The plant called weld, or dyer's weed, affords a 

roost beautiful yellow dye for cotton, woolen, mo- 
hair, silk, and linen,* and is that which is most com- 
«monly used by dyers for that purpose, as it gives 
the brightest dye. Blue cloths dipped in a decoc* 
tion of it.become green. The yellow colour of the 
paint, called Dutch pink, is got from this plant \ the 
tinging quality resides in, the stems and branches, 
and it is cultivated in sandy soils, because rich soils 
are apt to lessen its value, by making the stalk hol« 
low. 

456. ' To stain wood green. 

Dissolve verdigris in vinegai^, or crystals of ver- 
digris in water ; and with the hot solution, brush 
over the wood till it be duly stained. 

457. To stain Horn to imitate Tortoise Shell. 

The horn to be stained must first be pressed into 
proper plates or scales, or other flat fofm. The 
following mixture must then be used : — 

Take of quicklime two parts, of litharge one, and 
temper them to the consistence of a soft paste with 
soap ley. Put this paste^ver all the parts of the 
horn, except such as are proper to be left transpar- 
ent, in order to the greater resemblance of the tor- 
toise ^hell. The horn must then remain thus cov- 
ered with the paste till it be thoroughly dry : when 
the paste being brushed off, the horn will be found 
partly opake and partly transparent in the manner 
of tortoise shell ; and when put over a foil, will be 
Scarcely distinguishable from it. It requires some 
degree of fancy and judgment to dispose of the paste 
in such a mamiier as to form a variety of transpar- 
entpartBf of mnerent magnitude and figure, to look 



DYEIN6 225 

like nature. This may be done by mixing whitep- 
in^ vvith ?ome of the parte to wealreri its operation 
in purtkiilHr places, by which spots of a reonish 
brown will be produced; that if properly, inter- 
spersed, t'specially on the edges of the dark parts, 
will greatly increase as well the beauty of the work 
as its similitude to real tortoise shell. 

458. Substitute for Verdisris in dyeing Black. 

Saturate two pounds of vitriol of copper with a 
strong alkaline salt, (American potashes, when to 
be procured, are recommended.) The vitriol will 
make about an equal weight of dry ashes. Both 
the vitriol and the ashes are to be previously dis- 
solved apart. When this proportion is mi^ed, well 
stirred, and suffered to stand a few hours, a precip- 
itate will subside. Upon adding.a few drops of the 
solution of ashes, if the mixture be satursrted, the 
water on the top of the vessel will remain qolour- 
less ; but if not, a blue colour will be produced, 
upon which add mor-e ashes ; there is no danger in 
being a little over saturated with ashes. Take care 
to add the solution of ashes to that of vitriol by a 
little at a time, otherwise the efTervesc^nce which 
ensues will cause them to overflow the vessel :. 
these four pounds of vitriol of copper and ashes will 
be equal to about the same weight of verdigris, and 
should be added to the other liquors of the dye at 
different times, as is usual with verdigris. 

The black thus dyed will be perfectly innocent 
to the goods, rather tending to keep them soft than 
corrode them, particularly hats, in which there is. 
the greatest consumption of verdigris. 

For those who ariB constantly using verdigris, it 
would be proper to have a vessel always at hand, 
containing a saturated solution of vitriol of copper, 
and another with a saturated solution of ashes, rea- 
dy to mix as they are waated ; for they do not an- 
swer so well if kept long. 



226 DYEING. 

ft 

459. Another substitute for Verdigris. 

Take one part of the very best sal-ammoniac, one 
quarter part of oil of vitriol, one half part of aqua- 
fortis, one quarter part of muriatic acid, and twelve 
parts of cold spring water, which, when thoroughly 
mixed together, is to be put into sheets of copper, 
of any size, turned up at the edges about half an 
inch all the way round, to prevent the mixture from 
running off. The mixture is then to be stirred well 
up every two or three hours, until the same is dis- 
covered to be of a green or bluish cast or body. The 
mixture must then remain a few hours, until it is 
settled, and the water at top appears perfectly 
clear, which will happen sooner or later, it depend- 
ing upon the temperature of the atmosphere. The 
water must then be carefully poured off, leaving the 
sediment at the bottom. It must be then put into 
any vessel of sufficient size, and if it is thoroughly 
prepared, the paint will bear washing in water to 
free it from dirt, &c. after which washing, the 
water must be poured from the paint. The paint 
may then be taken and prepared in lumps, by put- 
ting the same into moulds of any size that may be 
convenient, observing afterwards to place the same 
in a mild warm room. When it is quite dry, it may 
be ground into powder with ease, or remain in the 
lumps, as may be convenient ; it is then fit for use. 

Remark. — This preparation is much clcfarer than 
verdigris made by stratifying copper-plate^^r by 
solution with the impure vinegars whiclMay no 
duty, . 'A^' 



PLEASING EXPERIMENTS. 227 



CHAPTER XX. 



PLEASING EXPERIMENTS. 



460. To produce Gas Light on a small scale. 

Take an ordinary tobacco-pipe, and nearly 611 
the bowl with small coals, and stop the mouth of 
the bowl with any suitable luting, as pipe clay, ot. 
the mixture of sand and common clay, or, as clay is 
apt to shrink, of sand and beer, and place th^ bowl 
in a fire between the bars of a grate, so that the pipe 
may stand nearly perpendicular. In a few minutes, 
if the luting is good, the gas will begin to escape 
from the orifice of the pipe, when, if a piece o( 
lighted paper or candle be applied, it will take fire 
and burn for several piinut^ s with an intense light. 
When the light goes out, a residum of useful pro- 
ducts will be found in the bowl. 

461. The Phosphoric Pencil 

Is a small bit of phosphorus, put into a quill, and 
kept in a phial, in water; when you write, dip 
your pencil often in the water, to prevent its taMng 
fire. 

462. * The Fire Bottle. 

Take as much unslacked lime as will lie on the 
point of a small penknife, put it into a short bottle, 
then put in about half a dram of phosphorus, and 
shake it gently until it takes fire ; then blow gently 
into the bottle until it has done crackling or friz- 
ing, and it will be fit for use. 

463. To make the phosphoric match bottle. 
These bottles may be prepared by mixing oina. 



228 PLEASING EXFERIMENTb. 

?art of flour of sulphur with eight of pho'*phorus. 
^his requires caution, and should afterwards be 
handled with groat rare, lest any part oflhe. mix- 
ture t»et under ibe finger nails, a small portion of 
whit h m«^ht occasion ^reat inconvenience. When 
jused to procure a light, a very minute quantity is 
taken out of Ihe bottle on the point of the match, 
and rubbed upon cork or wood, which produces an 
immediate fla.::c. 

464. To make an illuminatbd or phosphoric bottle^ 
which will preserve its Light'for several Months* 

By putting a piece of phosphorus, the size of a 
pci into a phial, and adding boiling oil until the 
bottle is a third full, a luminous bottle is formed ; 
for, on taking out the cork, to admit atmospheric 
air, the empty space in the phial will become lumi- 
nous. 

Whenever the stopper is taken out in the night, 
sufficient light will be evolved to shew the hour 
upon a watch ; and if care be taken to keep it, in 
general, well closed, it will preserve its illuminative 
power for several months. 

465. To take Impressions on paper from dtsigns 

made on Stone. 

The stone should be close grained, and the draw- 
ing or writing should be made with a pen dipped in 
ink, formed of a solution of lac, in leys of pure so- 
da, to which should be added some soap and lamp- 
black for colouring ; leave it to harden for a tew 
days ; then take impressions in the following man- 
ner : dip the surface in water, then dab it with 
printer's ink, and printer's balls ; the ink stirk? to 
the design and not to the stone, and the ir/.pression 
may be taken with wet paper by means of a rolling 
or screw press, in the ordinary manner. S^Neral 
hundp.d copies may be taken from the same design 
in thU simple^ manner. 



PLEASING EXPERIMENTS. 2:21) 

466* A cheap and simple process for Painting on 
Glass^ sufficient for the purpose of making a Magic 
Lanthorn. 

Take good clear rosin, any quantity, melt it in an 
iron pot : when melted entirely, let it cool a little, 
and, before it begins to harden, pour in oil of tur- 
pentine sufficient to keep it liquid when cold. In 
order to paint with it, let it be used with colours 
ground with oil, such as are commonly sold in co- 
lour shops. 

467. To make Transparent Screens for the Exhibi- 

tion of the Phantasmagoria. 

Transparent screens are to be prepared by 
spreading white wax, dissolved in spirits of wine or 
oil of turpentine over thin muslin. A screen so 
prepared will roll up without injury. A clearer 
screen may be produced by havine the muslin al- 
ways strained upon a rectangular frame, and pre- 
pared with turpentine instead of wax. Such a screen 
is not always convenient, and it cannot be rolled 
without cracking, and becoming in a short time 
uselefs. Therefore, nothing can be better for the 
purpose than the former. 

468. Thunder Powder. rf*^ 
Take separately, three parts of good dry salt- 
petre, two parts of dry salt of tartar, and pound 
them well together in a mortar ; then add thereto 
one part, or rather more, of flour of brimstone, and 
take care to pound and mix the whole perfectly to- 
gether : put this composition into a bottle with a 
glass stopper, for use. 

Put about two drams of this mixture in an iron 
spoon, over a moderate fire, but not in the flame ;iii 
a short time it will melt, and go offwitL an explosion 
like thunder or a loaded cannon. 

U 



■230 fAKKIERY. 

CHAPTER XXI. 

' FARRIERY. 



469. A rectlptfor the colic in a horse* 

One table-spoonful of ginger beat and sifted, two 
or three table spoonfuls of flour of mustard, a gill 
of gin, and a quart of warm ale, mix them together, 
and give them in a horn* In an hour or two walk 
the horse out and repeat it the following day : care 
should be taken that the horse drinks nothing but 
warmed water for two or three days after. 

470. Distemper in Dogs. 

Dr. Blaine has described the disease, called the 
Distemper in Dogs, with accuracy, and his medi- 
cines in general are successful : but a gentleman 
had administered Dr. Blaine^s medicines to a fa- 
vourite pointer, in the disease called The Distem- 
per, but with no avail ; the unvarying symptoms 
had come on, when the poor animal crawled into 
the field, and fell among some grass, attempting, 
but ifl^ain, to eat it. The gentleman followed this 
suggeJiion of nature, and ordered a handful of grass 
to be cut in shreds of about half an inch long, and 
when mixod with butter, to be put down the ani- 
maPs throat ; the dose was repeated three times in 
every twenty-focir hours, and a visible amendment 
almost immediately took place, which terminated in 
recovery. 

471. To know whether a dog is mad or not. 

Dogs suspected of being mad are frequently kill- 
ed, leaving persons bitten in a dreadful uncertainty, 
whether the dogs were or were not really mad •, the 



FIRE. 2f31 

following experiment lias been supposed conclusive 
on this head : — rub the mouth, teeth, and gums 
of the dead dog, if free from blood, with a little roast 
or boiled meat, and offer this meat, so rubbed, to 
another dog, who will eat it without reluctance if 
the dead dog was not mad, but wiU refuse it, and 
run away howling from it, if the dead dog was really 
mad. It may be further satisfaction to the parties 
concerned, to keep the dog tied up for some days, 
if he eats the meat so prepared. 



CHAPTER XXII. 

FIRE. 



472. Mtthod of extinguishing fires in chimnies. 

Stop with a wet blanket the upper orifice of the 
tunnel ; but the surest and readiest method is to 
apply the blanket either to the throat of the chim- 
ney, or over the whole fcont of the fire-place. If 
there happens to be a chimney board or a register, 
nothing can be so effectual as to apply them im- 
mediately : and having by that means stopped the 
draught of air from below, the burning soot will be 
put out as readily and as completely as a candle is 
put out by an extinguisher, which acts exactly upon 
the same principle. 

473. To extricate horses from fire. 

If the harness be thrown over a draught, or the 
saddle placed on the back of a saddle horse, they 
may be led out of the stable as easily as on com- 
mon occasions. Should there be time to substitute 



233 FIRE. 

the bridle for the baiter, the difficulty towards sav- 
iag them will be still further diminished. 

474. Method of rendering all sorts 0/ paper j linen^ 

and cotton^ less coinbustible. 

This desirable object, may be, in some degree, 
effected, by immersing these combustible materials 
in a strong solution of alum water ; and, after dry- 
ing them, repeating this immersion, if necessary. 
Thus, neither the colour, nor the quality of the 
paper, will be in the least affected, on the contrary, 
both will be improved ; and the result of the ex- 
periment may be ascertained, by holding a slip of 
paper, so prepared, over a candle. 

475. To prevent Wood^ Linen^ irc» from catching 

Fire. 

One ounce of sulphur, one ounce of red ochre, 
and six ounces of a solution of copperas. To pre- 
vent wood from catching fire it is first to be covered 
with joiner's glue, over which the powder is spread. 
This process is to be repeated three or four times 
after the wood is become dry. In linen and paper, 
water is to be used instead of glue, and the process 
is repeated twice. 

176. Method to escapefromfirt. 

The following simple machine ought always to 
be kept in an upper apartment. It is nothing more 
than a shilling or eighteen-penny rope, one end 
of which should* always be made fast to something 
in the chamber, and at the other end should be a 
noose to let down children or infirm persons, in case 
of fire. Along the rope there should be several 
knots, to serve as resting places for the hands and 
feet of the person who drops down by it. No fam- 
ily occupying high houses should ever be without a 
contrivance ot this kind. 



FIRE. • 2o3 

477. To make zeater more tfficacious in extihguish- 

ing fires. 

Throw into a pump, which contains fifty or Hxfy 
buckets of water, eight or ten pounds of salt, or 
pearl ashes, and the water thus impregnated will 
wonderfully accererate the extinction of the moft 
furious conflagration. Muddy water is better than 
clear, and can be obtained when salt and ashes can- 
not. 

478. To extinguish fires speedily. 

Much mischief arises from want of a little pre- 
sence of mind on these alarming occasions ; a small 
quantity of water, well and immediately applied, 
will frequently obviate great danger. The moment 
ah alarm of fire is given, wet some blankets well in 
a bucket of water, and spread th^m upon the floor 
of the room, where the fire is, and afterwards beat 
out the other flames with a blanket thus wet : two 
or three buckets of water thus used early, will ans- 
wer better than hundreds applied at a later period. 

Linen thus wet will be useful, but will not answer 
so well as woolen. 

479. Hint respecting women'' s and children's clothes 

catching fire. » 

The females and children in every family should 
be particulaily told and shewn that flame always 
tends upwards, and consequently, that as long as 
they continue erect or in an uptight posture, while 
their clothes are burning, the fire generally begin- 
ning at the lower part of the dress, the flames meet- 
ing additional fuel, as they rise, become more 

Powerful in proportion ; whereby the neck and 
ead, being more exposed than other parts to the 
intense and concentrated beat, must necessarily be 
most injured. Jn a case of this kind, where the suf- 
ferer happens to be alone, and canaol ^TAxtvi^xv^V 

13^ 



^34 viM. 

the flames bj instantlu throwing the clothes otef the. 
head, and rolling or lying vpon them, she may still 
avoid great agortj, and save her liFe, by throwing 
herself at fullltngth on the floor, and rolling herse^ 
thereon. This method may not extinguish the flame, 
but to a certainty will retard its progress, prevent 
fatal injury to the neck and head, and afford oppor- 
tunity for assistance ; audit may be more practica- 
ble ths^n the other, to the aged and infirm. A car- 
pet or hearth-rug instantly lapped round the head 
and body is almost a certain preventive of danger. 
(And see pp. 108, 109. Chap. xiiu. Clothes.) 

480* To stop the progress offlre on board of Ships. 

From the great confusion occasioned by the 
alarm of fire, on board a ship, with the difficulty often 
of ascertaining the precise spot where it is, it ap- 
pears almost impossible to devise any means to pre- 
vent the progress of such an accident when once it 
has got head. 

The only mean that seems to promise 6.uccess is 
to convey water to any part of the ship according 
to the following method : — To place strong pipes 
through the decks, close to the sides of the vessel ; 
those going to the hold must be cased, to prevent 
their being damaged by moving stores between the 
decks. These may be so distributed that every 
part between the decks may be within the reach of a 
stream of water issuing from them. The magazine 
and place where spirits and inflammable stores are 
kept ought to have the greatest number of pipes 
about them, to prevent the fire reaching those parts. 

Streams of water to the part on fire may be di- 
rected by a lever fixed on the top of the pipe, the 
end of which corresponding with the aperture be- 
low, the same vertical plane will pass through the 
lever and the stream. 

Small engines, such as those used for watering 



FIRE-ARMS. 235 

gardens, will be sufficient for the purpose. Two 
men only will be required for the service of each 
pipe^ one to supply it, and the other to direct the 
stream. 



CHAPTER XXllI. 

fiRE-ARMS. AND THE MANAOEMENT OF OUIT-POWDER. 



481. To brown gun-barrtls. 

A(ler the barrel is finished, to give it a brown co- 
lour, it is to be rubbed over with aquafortis or spi« 
rit of salt diluted with water, and then to be laid by, 
for a week or more, till a complete coat of rust is 
formed. A little oil is then to be applied, and the 
surface being rubbed dry, it is to be polished by 
means of a hard brush and a little bees^ wax. 

482. To keep arms and polished metal from rust. 

Dissolve one ounce of camphor in two pounds of 
hog^s lard, observing to take off the scum; then 
mix as much black lead as will give the mixture an 
iron colour. Fire arms, &c. rubbed over with this 
mixture, and left with it on twenty-four hours, and 
then dried with a linen cloth, will keep clean for 
many months. 

483. To prevent humidity from being prejudicial to 

powder magazines. 

A Prussian officer of rank informed St. Pierre, 
that having remarked vapours to be attracted by 
lead, he had employed it for drying the atmosphere 
of a powder magazine, constructed under ground, 



336 FIRE-ARHd* 

in the throat of a bastion, but useless from its bu- 
miditj. He ojdered the concave ceiling of the 
arch to be hoed with lead, where the gon-powder 
was deposited in barrels : the vapours of the vault 
collected in great drops on the leaden roof, run off 
in streamlets along the sides, and left the gunpow- 
der barrels perfectly dry. 

484. To recover damaged gun powder* 

The method of the powder merchants is this : 
they put part of the powder on a sail cloth, to which 
they add an equal weight of what is really good ; 
then, with a shovel, they mingle it well together, 
dry it in the sun, and barrel it up, keeping it in a 
dry and proper place. 

485. To increase the force of gunpowder* 

Dr. Bainesays, three ounces of pulverized quick- 
lime being added to one pound of gunpowder, its 
force is augmented one-third ; shake the whole to- 
gether till tha white colour of the lime disappears. 

486. Method of increasing the effects of gunpow- 
der^ and also shewing the necesssity of certain 
precautions in loading Fire- Arms. 

It is a well known fact, which cannot be too of- 
ten published, that a musket, fowling piece, &c. is 
very apt to burst if the wadding is not rammed 
down close to the powder. Hence it is obvious, 
that in loading a screw barrel pistol, care should 
be taken that the cavity for the powder be entire- 
ly tilled with it, so as to leave no space between 
the powder and the ball. 

If a bomb or shell is only half filled with gun- 
powder, it breaks into a great number of pieces ; 
whereas, if it is quite filled, it merely separates into 
two or three pieces, which are thrown to a very 
great distance. 



FIRE-WOMS. 237 

1 

If the trunk of a tree is charged with gunpowder, 
for the purpose of splitting it, and the wadding is 
rammed down verj.hard upon the powder, in that 
case the wadding- is onlj driven out, and the tree 
remains entire ; but if, instead of ramming the wad- 
ding close to the powder, a certain space is left be- 
tween them, the effects of the powder are then such 
as to tear the tree asunder. 



CHAPTER XXIV, 

FIRE-WORKS. 



487. Tx>mak6 sky-rockets. 

The charges for sky rockets are made of salt- 
petre four pounds, brimstone one pound, and char- 
coal one pound and a half; or by another direction, 
saltpetre four pounds, brimstone one pound and 
ahalf, charcoal twelve ounces, and meal powder two 
ounces. These proportions vary again according to 
the size of the rockets ; in rockets of four ounces, 
mealed powder, saltpetre, and charcoal, are used 
in th'e proportions of 10, 2, and 1 •, but in very large 
rockets the proportions are, saltpetre four, mealed 
powder and sulphur one each. When stars are 
wanted, camphor, alcohol, *antimony, and other in> 
gredients, are required, according as the stars are 
to be blue, white, &c. In some cases gold and sil- 
ver rain is required, then brass dust, steel dust, saw 
dust, &c. enter into the composition; hence the 
varietiies may be almost indefinite. With respect to 
€olo*ar, sulphur gives a blue, camphor a white or 
p?t'le colour, saltpetre a whitish yellow, sal-ammo- 
niac, a green, antimony a reddish, rosin a coi^i^er 



S38 GARBEXINO — BOTANY. 

colour. These materials require preparation before- 
they are fit for use ; and before a person can be 
qualified for the business of fire* work making, he 
roust understand the method of making the moulds, 
cases, &c. and be acquainted with the instruments 
used in the art, their dimensions and materials* 

488, Improvement infire-works. 

Professor Proust has discovered that nitrate of 
soda is an economical article in their composition ; 
and that five parts of the nitrate, one of charcoal 
and one of sulphur, a&brd.a powder which produ- 
ces a flame of beautiful reddish yellow colour* 

CHAPTER XXV4 

GARDENING— B0TAN7. 



SECT. 1.— MANAGEMENT OF GREEN- 
HOUSE, &c. 

489. Proper Situation for a Green-house^ or Room, 

The aspect of a green-house may be at any point 
from east to west, following the course of the sun ; 
or it may even be a little to the north of east or west, 
but only a little, and the less the better, otherwise 
the plants will not generally thrive in it, nor will 
the flowers acquire their natural colours. 

490. To air plants, and ventilate Rooms wherein 

they are contained. 

Plants should have air, every day in the year, to 

make them grow well ; but this matter, in sitting- 

rooms, will not of course be regulated for their 



MANAGEMENT OF S££D6. 239 

sakes, especially id the colder seasons* Wherever 
placed, however, some attention should be paid to 
airing and ventilating the rooms regularly, by open- 
ing the windows and occasionally the doors, in or- 
der to excite a free circulation of air. This should 
be done to a certain extent every day, according to 
the state of the weather, except in the time of se- 
vere frost, when it would not be advisable to ad- 
mit external air. But at such times, if bad wea- 
ther be of long continuance, the rooms may be ven- 
tilated by means of the doors, and by exciting a cur- 
rent of air in the passages, or other parts of the 
house. 

In very severe frost, orin a continuation of damp 
weather, moderate fires should be made for the sake 
of the plants, if placed in rooms not occupied. The 
window Gutter should also be closed at night. 



SECT. II.— SEEDS. 

491. Easy method of discovering whether or not 

seeds are sufficiently ripe. " 

Seeds, when not sufficiently ripe, will swim, but 
when arrived at full maturity, they will be found 
uniformly to fall to the bottom ; a fact that is said 
to hold equally true of all seeds, from the cocoa 
nut to the orchis. 

492. On preserving seeds of plants in a state Jit for 

vegetation. 

Seeds of plants may be preserved, for many 
months at least, by causing them to be packed, 
either in husks, pods, &c. in absorbent paper, with 
raisins or brown moist sugar ; or a good way, prac- 
tised by gardeners, is to wrap the seed in brown 
paper or cartridge paper, pasted down, and then 
varnished over. 



840 GARDENING — BOTANY. 

493. TofacilitaU the grtnoth of foreign seeds^ 

Mr. Humbolt has found, that seeds, which do not 
commonly germiDate in oar climate, or in our hot- 
houses, and which of course we cannot raise for 
our gardens, or hope to naturalize in our fields, be- 
come capable of germinating, when immersed for 
some days in a weak oxygenized muriatic acid. — 
This interesting discovery has already turned to 
advantage in several botanic gardens. 



SECT. III.— MANAGEMENT OF GARDEN. 

BORDERS. 

494. To plant and make edgings. 

Edgings of daisies, thrift, violets, gentianelia, 
&c. should be planted in February ; but those of 
box succeed better, if planted in April or August. 

New edgings should be planted rather closely, 
that they may have an immediate effect ; and, in re- 
pairing old ones, plant very close, that the whole 
may appear the more uniform. Some plant these, 
in either case, with the dibble, but it is better to do 
this with the spade \ cutting out by the line, a drill 
or furrow, perpendicular, on the side next the bor- 
der, and to a depth suitable to the size of the roots 
to be laid ; placing them against the perpendicular 
side, and spreading out their fibres sideways ; ex- 
posing them to the air as short a time as possible. 

495. How to cut box edgings. 

Box edgings should be cut about the beginning of 
April, or in the end of July. They should, however, 
be cut once a year, and should be kept two inches 
in breadth at bottom ; being tapered up to a thin 
edge at top ; for nothing looks so ill as a large bushy 



C&LTUU, ilCm OF FLOWERS. S4i 

edging, especially to a narrow walk. The use of 
edging ie to separate the earth from the gravel, and 
the larger they are allowed to grow, the less efTec- 
tual they become r getting the more open below, 
as they advancein height. Such also harboursnails, 
and other troublesome vermin. 

496^ A sure mithod of curing gravtl walks* 

Three parts of pond water to one of brine, from 
the salting-tub in a family, poured with a watering 
pot upon gravel walks, will not only kill the moss 
upon them, but drive away the worms which make 
so many holes in them, and also prevent weeds 
springing up. This a gentleman has lately tried, 
who has several gravel walks in a grove near his 
house. Since he moistened his walks with brine, 
which is now four years ago, they are incommoded 
neither by moss, weeds, or worms. Every autumn 
he causes them to be well watered with the brine 
and pond water, during a whole week, to prevent 
moss, and a week in the spring, to guard against 
weeds and worms, besides giving them a sprinkling 
every now and then in the summer season, when 
they seem to want it. 



SECT. IV — CULTURE AND MANAGEMENT 

OF FLOWERS. 

497. Proper method of lat/ing carnations. - 

In summer, towards the latter end of June, 6r 
any time in July, or beginning of August, when 
the shoots of the year are advanced to a proper 
growth, being from four, five, or six, to seven or 
eight inches long, which are to be laid as they grow 
on the plants, and to remain aiffixed thereto till 
rooted in the ground. 



243 OARDSKtNG — SOTANT. 

Thus fai" observed^ begin the work by first clear* 
iog away all weeds about (he plants, and loosen the 
earth a little around them, and if the surface is low, 
add some mould thereto sufficient to raise it high 
enough to receive the layers easily ; then begin the 
laying the shoots one by one ; si rip off the lower 
leaves so as to have some inches of a clear slioot 
below ; and trim the top leaves shorter and even^ 
and then slit or gash the shoot on the under side ; 
in doing which, fix on a joint about the middle of 
the shoot underneath, and with your sharp knife 
cut ha V through the joint, and slanting upwards,, so 
as to slit the shoot up the middle half an inch, or 
but little more : which done, directly lay it, by 
bending it down to the earth with the gash or slit 
part open, making an opening in the earth, and peg 
it down with one or two of the small-hooked sticks, 
and earth over the body of the layer an inch or two 
deep, still keeping the slit open and the top raised 
gently upright, pressing the earth moderately upon 
them ; and in this manner proceed with laying all 
the shoots on each plant ; and when all are laid 
give a gentle watering to settle the earth close a- 
bout the lasers, and repeat it frequently in dry 
weather. 

They will soon emit rOots at the gash or slit part, 
generally at the bottom of the tongue, and in five or 
six weeks will often be rooted fit for separating and 
planting ofi*l>om the parent, so that when they have 
been about five, six, or seven week^ laid, you will 
examine the progress (hey have made in rooting, 
by opening the earth gently about some of the lay- 
eis ; and as soon as they appear to be tolerably 
rooted, let them be cut oiTfrom the old plant with a 
sharp knife, in order to be timely planted out in 
nursery beds, that they may root more abundantly, 
and get due strength before winter; observing, in 
cutting them otf from the mother plant, to open the 



CULTURE, &C. Or-rLOWERS. 243 

ground so as to take them with a11 the roots thej 
have inade,a(id cut them clean offbe^ond the gHi^li ; 
afterwHrds trim off any naked woody part ur bot- 
tom, but preserve ail the roolB, and trim the long 
tops a little, then plant them in nursery rows, six 
inches asunder, or you may prick some in small 
pots, one layer in each, giving water directly at 
planting, and repeat it often in dry weather till 
they lake good root and grow freely, keeping them 
clean from weeds. 

Those in the nursery beds will, by October, be 
£;ood strong plants. The dioioedt sort? may then 
i>e planted in pots, to move under occasional shel- 
ter in time of severe frost, and for which purpose, 
cither use small pots (32) to contain them all win- 
ter, or plant them in large pots (24 or 16) to remain 
to flower, observing to take them up out of the nur- 
sery beds for potting, &c. with a garden trowel, 
each layer with a good ball of earth about the roots ; 
and having the pots ready, placing a shell over the 
holes at bottom, and put some good light rich earth 
therein ; plant one layer with its ball about the 
roots entire, in each pot, fill up with more earth, 
and give some water; you may also at the same 
time plant some of the more ordinary or common 
sorts into flower borders or beds, to stand the full 
weather all the year, but the choicer sorts in the 
pots, may, in November, be placed close together, 
either tn a garden- frame, to have occasional protec- 
tion of the glasses, or mats, in severe frost, and 
have the full air in all open weather and mild days, 
or may be plunged in a raised bed of any dry com- 
post, raised some inches above the common level, 
and arched over with hoop arches, in order to be 
protected with occasional covering of garden mats 
when hard frosts prevail ; but in either method be 
sore to expose them fully in all open weather, as 
aforesaid. 



344 QARDENINO — BOTANY. 

lo the spring, such as have remained all winter io 
fiinall pots, should in February, or early in March, 
be turned out with the bail of earth about the root, 
and planted into larger pots, to remain for flower- 
^^S^ giving proper waterings ; and those which were 
potted at once into larger pots in autumn, should 
now have the earth stirred at top, taking out some, 
and fill up with fresh good earth, and give a little 
water. 

The layers planted in the common borders of the 
pleasure and flower garden require no other care 
than keeping ihom clean from weeds, and tying up 
the flower stalks to sticks when they are advanced 
long enough to require support. 

498. Plants watered by being placed in dishes im- 

proper^ 

The practice of placing flats or saucers under 
plants, and feeding them by the roots, that is, pour- 
ing the water continually into these dishes, and 
never on the earth at top, is highly improper. The 
water should always be poured on the surface of the 
earth, that it may filter completely through it, to 
the benefit and refreshment of the fibres. 

499. When to plant annual and perennial flowers. 

Many kinds of annuals and perennials, sown in 
March and the beginning of April, will be fit for 
transplanting about the end of May, and may either 
be planted in patches about borders, or in beds, as 
fanQy^shall direct. Of these, the kinds improved 
by transplanting, are amaranthuses, China asters, 
columbines, French and African marigolds, fox- 
gloves, holly hocks, India pinkf*, love lies a bleed- 
ing, mallows, migniotte, princess feather, scabious, 
stocks, sun-flowers, sweet-williams, wall-flowers, 
and others. They should be planted out in a show- 
ery time, if possible, or otherwise be frequently 
iratered, till they have struck root. 



" CULTURE, &C* Of FLOWERS. 345 

« 

dOO. To remove kerbs and flowers in the summer. 

If you have occasion to transplant in the summer 
season, let it be in the evening after the heat is 
past, plant and water the same immediately, and 
there will be no danger from the heat next day ; but 
be careful, in digging up the earth, you do not 
break any of the young shoots,, as the sap will exude 
out of the same to the great daYiger of the plants. 

501* Method of growing flozoers and fruits during 

Winter. 

In order to produce this effect, the trees or shrubs 
being taken up in the spring, at the time when they 
are about to bud, with some of their own soil care- 
fully preserved among the roots, must be placed 
upright in a cellar till Michaelmas ; when, with 
the addition of fresh earth, they are to be put into 
proper tubs or vessels, and placed in a stove or hot- 
bouse, where they must every morning be moisten- 
ed or refreshed with a solution of half an ounce of 
sal-ammoniac in a pint of rain water. Thus, in the 
month of February, fruits or roses will appear ; and 
with respect to flowers in general, if they are sown 
in pots at or before Mjchaelmas, and watered in a 
similar manner, they will blow at Christmas. 

502. To preserve delicate young shoots of flowers 
from slugs and earwigs. 

Earwigs and slugs are fond of the points of the 
young shoots of carnations and pink, and are very 
troublesome in places where they abound. To 
prevent them from getting to the fine stage plants, 
or supports of the stage, they are sometimes insu- 
lated in water, being set in cisterns or pans. If a 
pencil, dipt in oil, was drawn round the bottom of 
the posts once in two days, neither of these insects 
nor ants would attempt them. Few insects can eii- 

X2 



246 OAmDBNIVa-— BOTANY. 

dure oiL The smalleet drop of it it instantly fatal 
to many kinds* 

503. t^irtues of the Sunjlozoer, 

Thecultivationof the annual sun-flower is recoro« 
mended to the notice of the pubhc, as possessing 
the advantages of furnishing abundance of agreea- 
ble fodder for cattle in their leaves. When in flow- 
er, bees flock to them from all quarters to gather 
honey. The seed is valuable in feeding sheep, pigs, 
and other animals ; it produces a striking effect in 
poultry, as occasioning them to lay more eggs, and 
it yields a large quantity of excellent oil, by pres- 
sure ; the dry stalks burn well, the ashes affording 
a considerable quantity of alkali. 

504. To preserve flower seeds* 

Those who are curious about saving flower seeds, 
must attend to them in the month of August. Many 
kinds will begin to ripen apace, and should be care- 
fully sticked and supported, to prevent them from 
being shaken by high winds, and so partly lost. 
Others should be defended from much wet ; such as 
asters, marigolds^ and generally those of the class 
Syngenesia ; as from the construction of their flow- 
ers they are apt to rot, and the seeds to mould, in 
bad seasons. Whenever they are thought ripe, or 
indeed any others, in wet weather, they should be 
removed to an airy shed or loft, gradually dried, 
and rubbed or beat out at conveniency. . 



SECT, v.— CULTURE AND TREATMENT 
'■' OF FRUIT TREES AND SHRUBS. 

605. To prevent blossom and fruit trees from being 
damaged by early spring frost. 

If a rope (a hempen one it is presumed) be inter- 



CULTURE, &C. or FRUIT TREES AND SHRUBS. 347 

mixed among the branches of a fruit^ree in blos- 
som, and the end of it brought down, so as to ter- 
minate iu a bucket of water, and should a slight 
frost take place in the night time, in that case the 
tree will not be aflfected by the frost ; bat a film of 
ice, of considerable thickness, will be formed on 
the surface of the bucket in which the ropers end 
is immersed, although it has often happened that 
another bucket of water, placed beside it for the 
sake of experiment,' has had no ice at all upon it. 

506. Chinese mode of propagating fruit trees. 

The ingenious people of China have a common 
m ethod of propagating several kinds of fruit trees, 
which of late years has been practised with success 
in Bengal. The method is simply this : — They 
strip a ring of bark, about an inch in width, from a 
bearing branch, surround the place with a ball of 
fat earth, or loam, bound fast to the branch with a 
piece of matting: over this they suspend a pot or 
horn, with water, having a small hole in the bottom 
just sufficient to let the water drop, in order to keep 
the earth constantly moist. The branch throws 
new roots into the earth just above the place where 
the ring of bark was stripped off. The operation 
is performed in the spring, and the branch is sawn 
off and put into the ground at the fall pf the lenf. 
The following year it will bear fruit. 

507. To improve fruit tret 8 by attention to the col- 

our of the 9oil* 

The colour, and also the quality of soils have 
an effect on the colour and flavour of fruits — even 
on the colour of many flowers. The effects of the 
colour of soils, on that of fruits, are most percept- 
ible on the delicate kinds, such as grapes, peaches, 
&c. but to a nice observer, it extends in a greater 
or less degree to all fruits. For instance, if tw<i 



348 GARDKNINO — BOTANY. 

black Hambarg grapes, made from the cuttings of 
the same plant, shall be planted, the one in a dry 
hacelly loam, and the other in a moist black earthy 
the fruit of the one will be brown, or of a grizly 
colour, and the other very dark red or black ; and 
the grape will be more juicy, (hoUgh better in fla* 
\x>ur, than the other grown in a drier soil. 

508. To increast the growth in trees* 

It may be depended upon as a fact, that by occa- 
sionally washing the stems of trees, their growth 
will be greatly increased t for several recent experi- 
ments have proved that all the ingredients of vege- 
tation united, which are received from the roots, 
stem, branches, and leaves, of a mossy and dirty 
tree, do not produce half the increase either in 
wood or fruit, that another gains whose stem is clean. 
It is cleariy obvious, that proper nourishment can- 
not be received from rain, for the dirty stem will re- 
tain the moisture longer than when clean, and the 
moss and dirt will absorb the finest particles of the 
dew, and likewise act as a screen, by depriving the 
tree of that share of sun and air which it requires. 

A common scrubbing brush and clean water is 
all that is necessary, only care must be observed 
not to injure the bark. 

509. To prevent Hares and Rabbitsfrom barking 

young Plantations. 

Hares, rabbits, and rats, have a natural antipathy 
to tar; but tar, though fluid, contracts, when ex- 
posed to the sun and air for a time, a great dryness 
and a very binding quality; and if applied to trees 
in its natural state, will occasion them to be bark 
bound. To remove this difficulty, tar is of so strong 
a savour, that a small quantity mixed with other 
things, in their nature open and loose, will give the 
whole mixture such a degree of its own taste and 



CULTURE, &C« OF FRUIT TREES AND SHRUBS. ^49 

smel], as will prevent hares, &c. touching what it 
is applied to. 

Take any quantity of tar, and six or seven times 
as much grease, stirring and mixing them well to- 
gether: with this composition brush the stems of 
young trees, as high as hares, &c. can reach ; ^nd 
it will effectually prevent their being barked. 

5 1 0. Bad effects of iron nailsj ^c. on fruit trees^ or 
mischievous effects of iron nails in conjunction 
with branches of fruit trees. 

It oftens happens that some of the limbs of fruit 
trees, trained against a wall, are blighted and die, 
while others remain in a healthy and flourishing 
state. This has been hitherto erroneously attribut- 
ed to the effects of lightning ; but, from closer ob- 
servation, and from several experiments, it has 
been found to arise from the corroding effects of 
the rust of the nails and cramps with which trees 
in this situation are fastened. To avoid this incon- 
venience, therefore, it requires only to be careful 
in preventing the iron from coming ii\ contact with 
the bark of the trees. 

oil. To destroy moss on trees* 

Remove it with a hard scrubbing-brush in Feb- 
ruary and March, and wash the trees with cow- 
dung, urine, and soap-suds. 

512. Necessity of taking off superfluous suckers 

from shrubs. 

Many flowering shrubs put out strong suckers 
from the root, such as lilacs, syringa, and some of 
the kinds of roses, which take greatly from the 
strength of the mother plant ; and which, if not 
wanted for the purpose of planting the next season, 
should be twisted off, or otherwise destroyed. 

513. To cure the disease in apple trees. 

Brush off the white down, clear off U\^\^^%X^>xv 



250 ^iAnSNIHOrr-BOTANT* 

onderoeatb it, andanoiat the places infectcid, with 
a liquid mixture of train oil and Scotch snuff. 

514. To cure the canker m trees. 

Cut them off to the quick, and apply a piece of 
sound bark from anj other tree, and bind it on with 
a flannel roller. Cut off the canker, and a new 
shoot will grow strong, but in a year or two you 
will find it cankered. 

515. A method of curing fruit trees infected with 

an easterly blight. 

Where valuable fruit trees are infected with this 
blight, they majr, with little trouble and expense, 
be in a short time cured, by fumigating them with 
brimstone strewed on light cnarcoal ; this effectual- 
ly kills them ; but the workmen must observe to 
t^ei to windward of the trees, as the fumes both of 
brimstone and charcoal, are very offensive and per* 
nicious. 

Mr. Miller recommends washing and sprinkling 
the blighted trees from time to time, with common 
water (that is, such as hafh not had any thing steep- 
ed in it) and the sooner that is performed, (when- 
ever we apprehend danger) the better ; and if 
the young and tender shoots seem to be much in- 
fected, wa^h them with a woolen cloth so as to 
clear them if possible, from all glutinous matter, that 
their rf^spiration and perspiration may not be ob- 
etructed, and if some broad flat pans, or tubs, are 
placed near the trees, it wilt keep thoir tender parts 
in a ductile state, and greatly keep them ; but 
whenever this operation of washing the trees is per- 
formed, it should be early in the day, that the mois- 
ture OMiy be exhaled before the cold of the night 
comes on, especially if the nights are frosty, nor 
should it be done when the sun shines very hot up- 
on the wall, which would be subject to scorch up 
the tender blossom. 



CULTURE, &C« OF FRUIT TRBE8 AND SHRUBS. 251 

516. Experienced method of healing wounds in trees. 

This method consists of making a varnish of com* 
mon linseed oil, rendered very drying, by boiling it 
for the space of an hoar, with an ounce of litharge 
to each pound of oil, mixed with calcined bones, 
pulverized and sifted, to tlie consistence of an al- 
most liquid paste. With this paste the wounds of 
trees are to be covered, by means of a brush, after 
the bark and other substance have been pared, so 
as to render the whole as smooth and even as pos- 
sible. The varnish must be applied in dry weath- 
er, in order that it may attaob itself properly. 

517. Composition for healing wounds in trees* 

Take of dry pounded chalk, three measures, and 
of common vegetable tar^ one measure ; liiix theiA 
thoroughly, and boil tben^ with a low beat, till the 
composition becomes of the consistency of bees^- 
wax ; it may be preserved for use, in this state, for 
any length of time. If chalk cannot conveniently 
be got, dry brick dust may be substituted. 

Application. — After the broken or decayed limb 
has been sawed off, the whole of the saw cut must 
be very carefully pared away, and the rough edges 
of the bark, in particular, must be made quite 
smooth ; the doing of this properly is of great con- 
sequence ; then lay on the above composition, hot, 
about the thickness of half a crown, over the wound- 
ed place, and over the' edges of the surrounding 
bark ; it should be spread with a hot trowef. 

518. To prune wall fruit. 

Cat off all fresli shoots, howerver fair they may 
appear to the eye, that will not, wfthoot muth bend- 
ing, b« well placed to the wall ; for if any branch 
happen to be twisted or bruised in the bending or 
turning (which yoa may not easily percev^^^ ^- 



252 OARDSNING — BOTANY. 

though it roaj grow and prosper for the present, yet 
it will decay in time, and the sap or gam will issue 
from that place. 

519. To prune vines to advantage. 

In pruning vines, leave some new branches every 
year, and take away, if too many, some of the old, 
which will be of great advantage to the tree, and 
much increase the quantity of fruit. 

When you trim your vine, leave two knots, and 
cut them off the next time ; for, usually, the two 
buds yield a bunch of grapes. Vines, thus pruned, 
have been known to bear abundantly, whereas 
others that have been cut close to please the eye, 
have been most barren of fruit. 

520. The most proper time when leaves of trees 
ought to be collected for pharmaceutical and eco» 
nomical purposes. 

It is at that period when the plant is in full flow- 
er, that the leaves possess their full virtue* They 
drop when their particular life has terminated. 



SECT. VL— CULTURE AND MANAGEMENT 
OF GARDEN CROPS. 

521. To propagate herbs by slips and cuttings. 

Many kinds of pot herbs may, in July, be propa* 
gated by cuttings or slips, which may be planted out 
to nurse on a shady border for a few weeks, or till 
they have struck root, and may then be planted out 
where tbey are to remain. If made about the mid- 
dle, or end of the month, they will be ready for 
transplanting before the end of August, and in that 
case will be well established before the winter. 



CULTURE, &C. or GARDEN CROPS* 253 

The kinds are maijorum, mint, sage, savory, sor- 
rel, tansy, tarragons, and thyme. 

522. Jiew method of rendering asparagus more pro- 
ductive^ and of producing it every month in the 
year. 

The flowers of asparagus are found, on a strict 
examination, to be diaecious, although arranged by 
LinnuBus, and other botanists, as hemaphrodite. 

Those individuals which bear berries have abor- 
tive stamina, and (hose which have perfect stamina 
are destitute of pistils, or at least have only abor- 
tive ones. , 

The male plants throw up a far greater quantity 
of shoots than the female ones, although not quite 
equal to them in size. 

In the formation therefore of beds, the male 
plants only should be selected, which may easily be 
done by not planting them from the seed bed until 
they have flowered. 

When the plants are one year old, transplant 
them into the other^beds, at six inches distance ; 
let them remain there until they flower, which will 
be, in most of them, in the second year ; put a small 
stick to each male plant, to mark them ; and pull up 
the females, unless you chuse to make a small plan- 
tation with some of them,, to prove the truth of the 
experiment. 

As asparagus is esteemed one of the greatest 
delicacies which the garden affords, no person fond 
of it should be unacquainted with the method of 
producing it every month in the year. 

Towards the end of July, especially if it be rainy 
weather, cut domn the stalks of the asparagus, fork 
up the beds and rake them smooth. If it be dry, wa- 
ter them with the draining of a dunghill ; but, in 
stead of leaving them round, leave them rather flat 
or hollow in the middle, the better to retain the ^^- 

Y 



254 O ARDENINO — BOX ANY ^ 

ter or rain. In about twelve or fourteen days the 
asparagus will begin to appear, and if it be dry wea- 
ther, continue watering once or twice a week. 

By this method you may cut asparagus till about 
the end of September, at which time the hot-beds 
will succeed this ; so that by making five or six hot- 
beds during the winter, you may have a regular 
succession of it every month of the year. 

Some persons will object to cuttingthe same beds 
twice a year : to obviate this objection, leave two 
op three beds uncut in the spring, and make a few 
more beds, if you choose to follow the practice. 

Asparagus seed is very cheap ; nor is it necessa- 
ry to use so much as was formerly used in making 
the bed$. 1 1 is better to apply a little rotten dung on 
the tops of the beds, and to sow some seed every 
year, that you may h^ve plenty of plants for forcing 
and making new beds. Be not too fond of continu- 
ing the old ones, when you perceive they begin to 
fail, but make new ones, and force the old roots. 

i>23. To raise capsicums^ andtwke Cayenne pepper. 

Cayenne pepper is a spice if^ed in most families, 
und often cultivated in the gardens for ornament, 
without either gentlemen or gardeners knowing that 
they have so valuable a spice in their possession ; 
for the usual price is a shilling an ounce, and even 
then it is not much dearer than black, as it will go 
about four times as far. 

This pepper originally came from Cayenne, in 
South America, (and other warm countries) from 
whence it took its name, but is now so naturalized 
to this climate as to be raised on a common hot- bed 
in spring. 

It la produced from the capsicum, which is raised 
for ornament, with many other annual flowers, or 
for pickling the green pods, and is the seed and pod 
when ripe* 



CULTURE, &C. OP GARDEN CROPS. 255 

In March or April, procure some pods of any of 
the sorts of capsicums, as there are many varieties 
of them of different shapes ; take out the seeds, and 
sow them on a hot- bed, not too thick* 

When they are about four inches high, prick them 
out on the hot bed, at six inches asunder ; or put 
each into a small pot, or three into a large one, and 
keep them still under the glasses. 

In June, when the weather is settled, plant them 
all in a warm situation, in rich earth, where they 
are to remain ; some on the borders of the flower- 
garden, and some into larger pots, which you cad 
shelter in bad weather. 
524. New method of raising cucumbers. 

From the best seed that can be got of the com- 
mon prickly cucumber, raise plants on a moderate 
hot bed, not hurryingthem too much in theirgrowth. 
In May, wben the danger of the frost is nearly over, 
familiarize the plants, by degrees, to the air, and, 
towards the latter end of the month plant them in 
the open ground against a south wall. Take care 
not to give them too much water, as that will injure 
the fruit. When they have run up about five k^i, 
they will send forth blossoms, and the fruit will be- 
gin to shew itself soon after. The flesh of cucum- 
bers raised in this manner will be thicker and firm- 
er, and the flavour vastly more delicious, than those 
raised from the same seed, but planted in the ordin- 
ary way, and the runners suffered to trail on the 
ground. Though a south wall in most gardens, is 
too much appropriated to other things, to give room 
for cucumbers in general, yet in every garden a few 
plants may be so trained by way of rarity, and to 
save seed, which is found to be greatly improved 
by this method, so as to produce much better cucum- 
bers in the common way of raising them. One or 
two plants, so raised, will supply a sufficient quanti- 
ty of seed for a large garden. 



256 GARBENINQ — BOTANY. 

Lajing a cucumber, or melon bed, with tiles, is 
also of particular service in improving the fruit, and 
giving it a proper flavour* 

525. To prevent the irregular growth of Melons • 

It is well known that melons frequently in certain 
situations, lose their circular form, and grow larger 
on one side than the other, and that those mishapen 
fruits are always bad. To remedy this, take a 
small forked stick, in proportion to the size of the 
melon, and thrust it into the ground as nearly as 
possible to the tail of the fruit, taking the precaution 
to lay a little moss between the two prongs, and 
suspend the melon to this fork. In a few days the 
melon will resume its form, when the fork may be 
removed, and the operation is finished. The quali- 
. ty of the fruit remains unchanged. 

52G. Easi^ method of producing mushrooms. 

If the water wherein mushrooms have been steep- 
ed or washed be poured upon an old bed, or if the 
broken parts of mushrooms be strewed thereon, 
there will speedily arise great numbers. 

527. To obtain a good crop of onions. 

In order to obtain a good crop of onions, it is 
proper to sow at different seasons, viz. in light soils, 
in August, January, or early in February ; and in 
heavy wet soils, in March, or early in April. On- 
ions, however, should not be sown in January, un- 
less the ground be in a dry state, which is not often 
the case at so early a period of the season -, but if so, 
advantage should be taken of it. 

528. The advantage of sowing peas in circles^ in- 

stead of straight rous. 

• It is a great error in those persons who sow the 
rows of tall growing peas close together. It is much 
better in all those ?orts, which grow six or eight 



CtLTtlRE, &C. OP GARDEN CROPS. 257 

feel high, to have only one row, and (hen to leave a 
bed ten or twelve feet wide for onions, carrots, or 
any crops which do not grow talj. 

The advantages which will be derived are, that 
the peas will not be drawn up so much, be stronger, 
will flower much nearer the ground, and in wet 
weather can be more easily gathered without wet- 
ting you* 

But instead of sowing peas in straight rows, if 
you will form the ground into circles of three feet 
diameter, with a space of two feet between each 
circle, in a row thirty feet long, you will have six 
circles of peas, each nine feet ; in all,. fifty- four feet 
of peas instead of thirty, on the same extent of 
ground. 

If you want more than one row of circles, leave 
abed often or twelve feet before you begin another. 

For the very tall sorts, four feet circles will aflbrd 
more room for the roots to grow in, and core must 
be taken, by applying some tender twigs, or strings, 
to prevent the circles from joining each other. 

This method is equally applicable for scarlet 
beans. 

529. To raise peas in autnmn^ and to preteut mice 
from eating them when sown* 

The purple flowered peas are found to answer 
best for a late crop in autumn, as they are not so li- 
able to be mildewed as many of the other sorts, and 
will continue flowering till the frost stops them. 

Those peas may be sown in July, August, or so 
late as the first week of September, if sown in a 
warm sheltered situation, and in a soil inclining to 
sand. 

Soak the peas in warm milk, and after you have 
drawn the drills, water them before you sow the 
peas ; it is best to sow them towards the evening. 

Y2 



^^ GARDENING — BOTANtf* 

If the autamn should prove very dry^ they will re- 
quire frequent watering. 

When peas are sown before winter, or early in 
spring, they are very apt to be eaten by mice. 

To prevent this, soak the peas for a day or two 
in train oil before you sow them, which will encour- 
age their vegetation, and render them so obnox- 
ious to the mice that they will not eat them. 

530. Method of cultivating Radishes for salad^ so 
as to have thtm ready at all seasons of the year. 

Take seeds of the common radish, and lay them 
in rain wafer to steep for twenty-four hours ; then 
put them quite wet, into a small linen bag, well tied 
at the mouth with packthread. If you have steeped 
a large quantity 'of seeds, you may divide them into 
several bags. Then expose the bags in a place 
where they will receive the greatest heat of the sun, 
for about twenty-four hours, at the end of which 
time the seed will begin to grow, and you may (hen 
sow it in the usual manner, in earth well exposed 
to the heat of the sun. Prepare two small tuts to 
cover each other exactly. These may be easily 
provided, by sawinga small cask through the middle, 
and th(*y will serve in winter ; in summer one will 
be sufficient for each kind of earth that has been 
sown. As soon as you have sown your seeds you 
must cover them with your tub, and at the end of 
three days you will find radishes of the size and 
thickness of young lettuce, having at their extremi- 
ties two small round leaves, rising from the earth, 
of a reddish colour. These radishes, cut or pulled 
up will he excellent, if mixed with salad, and they 
have a much more delicate taste than the common 
radishes which are eaten with salt. 

By taking the following precautions you may 
have them in the winter, and even during the hard- 
est frosts : After having steeped the seeds in warm 



OULTURK, &LC. OF GARDEN CROPS. 259 

water, and exposed them to the sun as already di-. 
rected, or in a place sufficiently hot to nnake them 
shoot forth, warm the two tubs ; fill one of them 
with earth well dunged ; sow your seeds, thus pre- 
pared, in one of them, and cover it with the other 
tub ; you n^ust then be careful to sprinkle it with 
warm water as often as may be necessary. Then 
carry the two tubs closely joined, taking care they 
cover each other, into a warm vault, or cellar, and 
at the end of fifteen days you may gather a fine 
salad. 

531 • To preserve strawberry plants from the heat of 

the sun^ <Jrc. 

Sir Joseph Banks, from a variety of experiments, 
and the experience of many years, recommends a 
general revival of the now almost obsolete practice 
of laying straw under strawberry plants, when the 
fruit begins to swell ; by which means the roots are 
shaded from the sun, the waste of moisture by 
evaporation prevented, the leaning fruit kept from 
damage, by resting on the ground, particularly in 
wet weather, and much labour in watering saved. 
Twenty trusses of |ong straw are sufficient for 1800 
feet of plants. 

632. Directions for managing strawberries in sum^ 

mer. 

On the management of strawberries in June and 
July, the future prosperity of them greatly de- 
pends ; and if each plant has not been kept sepa- 
rate, by cutting off the runners, they will be in a 
state of confusion, and you will find three different 
sorts of plants. 

1 . Old plants, whose roots are turned black, bard, 
and woody. 

2. Young plants, not strong enough to flower. 

3. Flowering plants, which ought only to be 
there, *and perhaps not many of them. 



260 GARDENING — BOTANY. 

Before the time of flowering is quite ov)er, exa- 
mine them, and pull up every old plant which has 
not flowered ; for, if once they have omitted to 
flower, you may depend upon it they will never 
produce any after, being too old, and past bearing ; 
but to be fully convinced, leave two or three, set 
a stick to them, and observe them next'year. 

If the young plants, runners of last year, be too 
thick, take some of them away, and do not leave 
them nearer than a foot of the scarlet, alpines, and 
wood, and fifteen or sixteen inches of all th6 lar- 
ger sorts ; and in the first rainy weather in July or 
August, take them all up, and make a fresh planta- 
tion with them, and they will be very strong plants 
for flowering next year. 

Oldtbeds, even if the plants be kept single at 
their proper distance, examine, and pull all the 
old plants which have not flowered. 

When the fruit is nearly all gathered, examine 
them again, and cut off the runners ; but if you 
want to make a fresh plantation, leave some oi the 
two first, and cut oifall the rest. Then stir up the 
ground with a trowel, or three-pronged fork, and 
in August they will befit to t^an^plant. 

If you have omitted in' July, do not fail in Au- 
gust, that the runners may make good roots to be 
transplanted in September, for, if later, the worms 
will draw them out of the ground, and the frost af- 
terwards will prevent them from striking root ; the 
consequence of which is, their not flowering the 
next spring ; and you will lose a year. 

533. To cultivate the common garden rhubarb. 

It is not enough to give it depth of good soil, but 
it must be watered in drought ; and in winter must 
be well covered with straw or dung. If this is at- 
tended to, your rhubarb will be solid when taken 
outofjbe ground ; and your kitchen, if a warm 



CULTUEE, &C« or GARDEN CROpis. 261 

one, when cut into large pieces, will &oon fit it for 
use. 

534. Method of cultivating and curing Turkey rhu- 
barb from seed. 

The seed should be sown about (he beginning of 
February, on a bed of good soil, (if rather sandy, 
the belter) exposed to an east or west aspect in pre- 
ference to the south ; a full sun being prejudicial to 
the vegetation of the seeds, and of the plants 
whilst young. 

The seeds kre best sown moderately thick, broad 
cast, treading them regularly in, as is usual with 
parsnips and other light seeds, and then raking the 
ground smooth. When the season is wet, make a 
bed for sowing the rhubarb seeds upon, about two 
feet thick, with new dung from the stable, covering 
it near one foot thick with good soil. The intent 
of this bed is not for the sake of warmth, but solely 
to prevent the rising of earth-worms, which in a 
moist season will frequently destroy the young crop. 

If the seed is good, the plants often rise too thick ; 
•if so, when they have attained six leaves, they 
should be taken up carefully (where too close,) leav- 
ing the standing crop eight or ten inches apart: 
those taken up may be planted at the same distance 
in a fresh spot of ground, in order to furnish other 
plantations. When the plants in general are grown 
to the size that cabbage plants are usually set out 
for a standing crop, they are best planted where 
they are to remain, in beds four feet wide, one row 
along the middle of the bed, leaving two yards dis- 
tance betwixt the plants, allowing an alley between 
the beds about a foot wide, for conveniency of 
weeding the plants. 

in the autumn, when the decayed leaves are re- 
moved, ifthe shoveling of the all^ysare tbrownover 
the crowns of the plants, it will be found of service. 



^62 GARDENING — BOTANV. 

535. Culiivalum of Turkey rhubarb by offsets^ 

Slip off several offsets from the heads of large 
plants : set them with a dibble about a foot apart, 
in order to remove them into other beds, and in the 
autumn they will be in a thriving sfate. 

536. Method of curing rhubarb. 

The plants may be taken up, either early in the 
spring or in autumn, when the leaves are decayed, 
in dry weather if possible ; when the roots are to be 
cleared from dirt (without washing) let them be cut 
into pieces, and with a sharp knife freed from the 
outer coat, and exposed to the sun and air for a 
few days, to render the outside a little dry. 

In order to accelerate the curing the largest pie- 
ces, a hole may be cooped out with a penknife ; 
these and the smaller parts are then to be strung on 
packthread, and hung up in a warm room, where it 
is to remain till perfectly dry. Each piece mny be 
rendered more sightly by a common file, fixing it in 
a small vice during tiiat operation ; afterwards rub 
over it a very fine powder, which the small roots 
furnish in beautiful perfection, for this and every 
other purpose where rhubarb is required. 

An easier and simpler method of drying rhubarb 
is, after cutting the root into handsome pieces, to 
wrap up each separately, in one or more pieces of 
whitish-brown paper, and then to plnce Ihom on 
the hob of a common Bith stove. Lemon and or- 
ange peel dry beautifiiily in this way. 

.337. Proper soil for the culture of turnips, 

Sandy loams, in good heart, are most favourable 
to their growth, though they will thrive well on 
strong loams, if they are not wet ; but on clayey, 
thin, or wet soils, they are not worth cultivating : 
for though a good crop may be raised on such 
ground, when well prepared and dunged, more 



CULTURE, &C. OF GARDEN CROPS. 263 

damage is done by taking off tlie turnipa in winter, 
in poaching the soil, than the value of the crop will 
repay. 

538. Preservalion of succulent plants. 

Green succulent plants are better preserved after 
a momentary immersion in boiling uater, thanoth- 
erwise. This practice has been successfully used 
in the preservation of cabbage, and other plants, 
dried for keeping; it destroys tbafktregetable life at 
once, and in a great degree prevents that decay 
which otherwise attends them. 

539. Various useful properties of tobacco to gar- 

* deners. 

Tobacco is employed for so many different uses, 
that there is no person possessed of a garden, but 
will find both pleasure and profit in the cultivation 
of it. especially as it is now at such a high price. 
The seed is very cheap, and may be procured of 
most nurserymen, and will answer the same end as 
the foreign for most purposes, and considerably 
cheaper. 

(The cultivation of tobacco, however, for eco- 
nomical purposes, is prohibited in Great Britain 
and Ireland.) 

Uses to which it may he applied, — 1 • To Florists, 
for two elegant annual plants to decorate the bor- 
ders of the flower garden ; or, on account of their 
height, to fill up vacant places in the shrubberies ; 
or, when put into pots, they wiU be very ornamen* 
tal in the greenhouse during the winter. 

2. Kitchen-gardeners would in a few days lose 
their crops of melons, if not immediately fumigated • 
with tobacco- smoke, when attacked by the red spi- 
der ; and it is useful to destroy the black.flies on 
cucumbers in frames. 

3. Fruit-gardeners. When peach and necta- 
rine trees have their leaves curled up, and the shoots 



264 GARDENING — BOTAN?. 

covered with smother flies ; or the cherry trees 
have the ends of the shoots infested with the black 
dolphin fly ; canvass, pack-sheets, or doubled mats, 
nailed before them, and frequently fumigated under 
tBem, will destroy those insects. 

4. Forcing-gardeners, who raise roses and kid- 
ney-beans in stoves, can soon destroy the green 
flies which cover the stalks and buds of roses, and 
the insects which appear like a mildew on kidney- 
beans, by the assistance of the fumigating bellows. 

5. Nurserymen. When the young shoots of 
standard cherry trees, or any other trees, are co- 
vered with the black dolphin flies, §n infusion is 
made with the leaves and stalks of tobacco; a quan- 
tity is put into an earthen pan, or small oblong 
wooden trough : one person holds this up, whilst 
another gently bends the top of each tree, and lets 
the branches remain about a minute in the liquor, 
which destroys them. 

6. Graziers, when their sheep are infected with 
the scab, find relief from making a sheep-water 
with an infusion of the leaves and stalks. Moles, 
when only a few hills are at first observed, may pro- 
bably be soon driven out of the ground, by fumi- 
gating their holes. 

7. Herb tobacco is also greatly improved, by 
having some of the leavea, when dried, cut with a 
pair of scKsars, and mixed with the herbs in any 
quantity you may think proper, according to the 
strength you require, and save you the expense of 
buying tobacco. 

The herbs generally used for this purpose are 
coltfoot and wood betony leaves : the leaves and 
flowers of lavender, rosemary, thyme, and some 
others of the like nature. 

{Several receipts^ applicable to gardtnins^, may 
also be found under Chap, I. Sect. vii. viii. and 
IX. — See also Vermin^ infra,) 



PRESKtlVATION or HEALTH. 265 



CHAPTER XXVI. 



• 
HEALTH. 



The following Chapter will be foand to contain some receipts, which perhaps 
may appear to infringe on the medical profession. It shonld however be 
understood, that onlj such popular articles are here introduced, as majr, io 
ordinary cases, afford help or mitigation, until medicai aid can be ob- 
lained } and also in such cases as require instantaneous assistance. 



SECT. I GENERAL RULES FOR THE 

PRESERVATION OF HEALTH. 

540. Avoids as much as possible^ living near church 

yards. 

The putrid emaDatioos arising from church yards, 
are very dangerous ; and parish churches, in which 
many corpses are interred, become impregnated 
with an air so corrupted, especially in spring, when 
the ground begins to grow wanp, that it is prudent 
to avoid this evil as much as possible, as it may 
be, and, in some cases, has been, one of the chief 
sources of putrid fevers which are so prevalent at 
that season. 

541. Valuable concise njes for preserving health in 

Winter. 

Keep the feet from wet, and the bead well de- 
fended when in bed ; avoid too plentiful m^Is ; 
drink moder^ely warm and generous, but not in- 



266 HEALTH. 

flaming liquors ; go not abroad without breakfast. 
Shun Ihe night air as you would the plague ; and 
let your bouses be kept from damps by warm fires. 
By observing these few an<f and simple rules, better 
health may be expected than from the use of the 
mo^t powerful medicines. 

542. Cautions in visiting sick rooms. 

Never venture into a sick room if you are in a 
violent perspiration (if circumstances require your 
continuance "there for any time,) for the moment 
your body becomes cold, it i« in a state likely to ab- 
sorb the infection-, and give you the disease. Nor 
visit a sick person, especially if the complaint be 
of a contagious nature, with an empty stomach ; 
as this disposes the system more readily to receive 
the contagion. In attending a sick person, place 
yourself where the air passes from Ihe door or win- 
dow to the bed of the diseased, not betwixt the dis- 
eased person and any fire that is in the room, as 
the heat of the fire will draw the infectious vapour 
in that direction, and you would run much danger 
froot breathing in it. 

543. Preventive of autumnal rheumatisms. 

For the sak« of Jbright arid polished stoves, do 
not, when the weather is cold, refrain from making 
fires. There is not a more useful document for 
health to the inhabitants of this climate, than '' Fol- 
low your feelings." 

544. To promote sleep. 

No fire, candle, rush light, or lamp, should be 
kept burning, during the night, in a bed room, for 
it not only vitiates the air in a very considerable 
degree, but also disturbs and prevents the re»t of 
those whosn sleep is mreasy, partiularly the aged. 
la a dark apartment, sleep generally comes on with- 



PRESERVATION OP HEALTH. 267 

out mach invitation ; whereas, any light in the a- 
partment stimulates the brain, and consequently 
the whole nervous system, and dispels any tenden- 
cy to repose. 

545. The ust of iar water in expanding the lungs 

of public speakers^ <J^c. 

It has be^n found by the experience of many, 
that drinking tar water very much deterges and 
opens the lungs, and thereby gives a very sensibly 
greater ease in speaking. A quart of tar is to be 
stirred six minutes in a gallon of water ; but if there 
be somewhat less tar it may do as well, especially 
at (irst, to try how it sits on the stomach. Take 
about one-fourth of a pint, at four several times, at 
a due distance from meals. Begin taking it in the 
spring for about fourteen days, and continue it for 
a greater length of time, as occasion may require. 

546. Oerman method of preventing hysterics. 

Caraway seeds, finely pounded, with a small 
proportion of ginger and salt, spread upon bread 
and butter, and eaten every day, especially early 
in the morning, and at night, before going to bed, 
are successfully used in Germanj, as a domestic 
remedy against hysterics. 

547. Hints for ventilating stage coaches. 

The plan is to have a bole perforated through the 
centre of the roof of the carriage, ofXhrce inches 
diameter, with a tube or chimney, one or two inch- 
es long, above the top of the same ; into which tube 
a fine grating might be fixed, if necessary, to pre- 
vent the outside passengers putting any thing 
through. A slide might also be placed in 'a groove 
within the carriage, to enable the inside passengers 
to close the tube at pleasure. 



268 HEALTH. 

■V 

548. Best mode of avoiding the fatal accidents of 

open carriages. 

Jumping out is particularly dangerous, the mo- 
,tion of the gig communicating a different one to the 
one you give yourself by jumping, tvhich tends 
very much to throw you on your side or bead : ma- 
ny suppose it very easy to jump a little forward, 
and alight safe ; ^tis supposition ; they will not find 
it to on trial. The method of getting out behind 
the carriage is the most 'safe of any, having often 
tried it, when the horse has been going very fast. 
Perhaps it is best to fix yourself firm, and remain 
in the carriage. 

349. To fumigate foul rooms. 

To one table-spoonful of common salt and a lit- 
tle powdered manganese in a glass cup, add, four 
or five different times, a quarter of a wine-glass of 
strong vitriolic acid. At every addition of the acid 
the vapour will come in contact with the malignant 
miasmata, and destroy them. 

550. To make a truly valuable fumigation powder. 

Nitre, four pounds ; sulphur, two pounds ; south- 
ernwood and juniper-berries, of each three pounds ; 
tar and myrrh, a pound and a half. This was tried 
at Moscow in 1772, and ten malefactors, under 
sentence of death, were fumigated well with this in 
the Lazaretto, and were confined for three weeks 
in this abode, saturated with infection, made to 
sleep with persons infected with the plague, and 
e^en dead of it, and not one were infected, or made 
ill of the disease. The vapour arising from the 
decomposition of nitre by the vitriolic acid is per- 
fectly harmless to be breathed, and may be em- 
Kloyed in every situation. This was used by Mr. 
I'Gregor, after the plan of Dr. Carmichael Smith, 
frAa rc}ateB, he lost, in ten weeks at Jersey, in pu* 



PRESERVATID» Of HEALTH. 268 

Irid fever, fifty m^ from Ihe 88th regiment ; but 
beginning the firmigfltion, not only the fewer was 
banished the ho«pita], but that it changed the na- 
ture of the existing fever; aH the malignant symp- 
toms disappeared, and of sixty soldiers ill of the 
fever, not one died. 

It is now ascertained that common muriatic ga?, 
or still better, oxymuriatic gas, is the best for de- 
stroying contagion, chiefly from superior expansi- 
bility. Both are easily obtained ; place a glass, 
porcelain, or salt-glazed earthenware vessel, in an 
iron pot filled with hot sand. For muriatic gas^ 
pour upon two partsof common salt (muriat of soda) 
placed in the glass vessel, one and a half parts of 
vitriolic acid (that is, oil of vitriol ;) for the oxy- 
genated muriatic, on a mixture of two parts of com- 
mon salt, with one part of the black oxide of man- 
ganese in powder, pour two parts of vitriolic acid, 
diluted with its weight of water. The muriatic gas 
occasions no inconvenience, except rustingfire-iron 
utensils, which may be previously removed. The 
oxymuriatic should not be used where there is any 
danger of its being inhaled, as it is poison when 
breathed in any considerable quantity. Guyton' 
Morveau has invented an oxynfiuriatic fumigating 
bottle, which will retain its power, if properly man- 
aged, foryear«j. It is quite certain that the com-- 
mon aromatic fumigating substances, sulphuric acid 
and the firing of gunpowder, are ineffectual. That 
the action of the sulphurous and acetous acid is* 
slow and incomplete, and that acetic acid, which 
acts instantly and efifectually on the fetid air, cannot 
be obtained, in sufficient quantity, and suffi<5iently 
concentrated, except at an enormous c^xpense. 

551 • To make balsamic and anti putrid vtiiegar. 

Take the best white wine vinegar, a handful of 
lavender leavet and flowers, the same quantity oC 



270 HEALTH. 

sage leaves and flowers, bysop, ^lyme, balm, savo- 
rjr ; a good handful of salt, and two heads of gar- 
lic ; iDfuse these in the vinegar a fortnight or three 
weeks ; the longer the better ; and then it is found 
to be an excellent remedy for wounds. 



SECT. IK— ON THE EYE. 

552. General rules for the choice of spectacles^ and 
for the preservation of the sight. 

^From Mr. Adams^ Essay on Vision,"] 

The nnost general, and perhaps the best rule that 
can be given, to those that are in want of assistance 
from glasses, in order so to choose their spectacles 
that they liiay suit the state of their eyes, is to pre- 
fer those which show objects nearest their natural 
state, neither enlarged or diminished, the glasses 
being near the eye, and that give a blackness and 
distinctness to the letters of a book, neither strain- 
ing the eye, nor causing any unnatural exertion of 
the pupil. For no spectacles can be said to be pro- 
perly accommodated to the eyes, which do not pro- 
cure them ease and rest ; if they fatigue the eyes, 
we may safely conclude, either that we have no oc- 
casion for them, or that they are ill made, or not 
proportioned to our sight. 

Though, in the choice of spectacles, every one 
must finally determine for himself, which are the 
glasses through which he obtains the most distinct 
vision ; yet some confidence should be placed in the 
judgment of the artist of whom they are purchased, 
and some attention paid to his directions. By try- 
ing man/ spectacles, the eye is fatigued, as the pupil 
varies in size with every different glass, and the 
eye endeavours to accommodate ^tself to every 



ON THE EYE. 271 

change ttiat is produced. Hence the purchaser 
often fixes upon a pair of spectacles not the best a- 
dapted to his sight, but those which seem to relieve 
him most, while his eyes are in a forced and unna- 
tural state, and consequently, when be gets home, 
and they are returned to their natural state, he finds 
what he has chosen fatiguing and injurious to bis 
sight. 

553. Of preservers^ and rules for the preservation 

of sight • 

Though it may be impossible to prevent the ab- 
solute decay of sight, whether arising from age, 
partial disease, or illness, yet by prudence and 

food management, its natural failure may certainly 
e retarded, and the general habits of the eyes 
strengthened, which good purposes will be promot- 
ed by a proper attention to the following maxims :• 

1. Never to sit for any length of time in absolute 
gloom, or exposed to a blaze of light. The reasons 
on which this rule is founded, prove the impropri- 
ety of going hastily from one extreme to the other, 
whether of darki^ess or of light, and shew us that a 
southern aspect h improper for those whose sight 
is weak and tender. 

2. To avoid reading small print. 

3. Not to read in the dark ; nor, if the eyes be 
disordered, by candle light. Happy those who learn 
this lesson betimes, and begin to preserve their 
sight before they are reminded by pain of the ne- 
cessity of sparing them. The frivolous attention 
to a quarter of an hour in the evening, has cost num- 
bers the perfect and comfortable use of their eyes 
for many years ; the mischief is effected impercep- 
tibly, the consequences are inevitable. 

4. The eye should not be permitted to dwell on 
glaring objects, more particlarly on first waking in 
a morning ; the sun should not of coursei.be su&c- 



27^ HEALTH* 

6d to shine into the room at that time, and a mode-^ 
rate qeantity of light only be admiUed. It is eaty 
to see that for the same reasoDB, the famiture of a 
bed should be neither altogether of a white or red 
colonr ; indeed, those whose eyes are weak would 
find considerable advantage in having green for the 
furniture of their bed-chamber. Nature confirms 
the propriety of the advice given in this rule ; for 
the light of the day comes on by slow degrees, and 
green is the universal colour she presents to our 
eyes. 

5. The long-sighted should accustom themselves 
to read with rather less light, and somewhat nearer 
to the eye than what they naturally like,- while those 
that are short sighted should rather use themselves 
to read with the book as fai;off*as possible ; by this 
means both would improve and strengthen their 
sight; while a contrary course will increase its na- 
tural imperfections. 

There is nothing which preserves the sight longer 
than always using, both in reading and writing, that 
moderate degree of light which is best suited to the 
eye ; too little strains them, too great a quantity 
dazzles and confounds them* The eyes are less 
hurt by the want of light than by the excess of it ; 
too little light never does any harm, unless they are 
strained by efforts to see objects to which the de- 
gree of light is inadequate : but too great a quanti- 
ty has, by its own power, destroyed the sight. Thus 
many have brought on themselves a catar^rtt, by 
frequently looking at the sun, or a fire ; others have 
lost their sight by being brought too suddenly from 
an extreme of darkness into the blaze of the day. 
How dangerous the looking on bKght luminous ob- 
jects is to the fright, is evident from its effects in those 
countries which are-covered the greater part of the 
year with snow, where blindness is exceedint^ly fre- 
guent; and where the traveller is obliged to cover 



6n the eye. 273 

bis eyes with crape, to prevent the dangerous and 
often sudden effects of too much light ; even the un- 
tutored savage tries to avoid the danger, by framing 
a little wooden case for his eyes, with only two nar- 
row slits. A momentary gaze at the sun, will, for a 
time, unfit the eyes for vision, and render them in- 
sensible to impressions of a milder nature. 

The following cases, from a small tract on the 
'* Fabric of the Eye," are so applicable to the pre- 
sent article, as to want no apology for their insertion 
here, though, if any were necessary, the use they 
will probably be of to those whose complaints arise 
front the same or similar causes, would, I presume, 
be more than sufficient. 

'* A lady from the country, coming to reside in 
St. James^ Square, was afflicted with a pain in her 
eye, and a decay in her sight. She could not look 
upon the stones, when the sun shone upon them, 
without great pain. This, which she thought was 
one of the symptoms of her disorder, was the real 
cause of it. Her eyes, which had been accustomed 
to the verdure of the country and the green of the 
pasture grounds before her house, could not bear 
the silent and unnatural glare of light reflected from 
the stones ; she was advised to place a nuii^ber of 
small orange trees in the windows, so that their tops 
might hide the pavement and be in a line with the 
grass. She recovered, by this simple change in the 
light, without the assistance of any medicine ; 
though her eyes ivere before on the verge of little 
less than blindness.'' ' 

A gentleman of the law had his lodgings in Pall 
Mall on the north sj^e, his front windows were ex- 
posed to the full noon sun, while the back room, 
having no opening buHnto a small close }ard, sur* 
rounded with high walls, was very dark ; he wrote 
in the back roon^ and used to come from (hat into 
the front room*to breakfast, &c. His sight grew 



374 HkALTH. 

• 

weak, and he had a constant pain in the balls of his 
eyes ; he tried visual glasses, and spoke vvith occu- 
lists, equally in vain. Being soon convinced, that 
the coming suddenly out of a dusky study, into the 
full blaze of sunshine, and that very often in the 
day, had been the real cause of his disorder, he 
took new lodgings, by which, and forbearing to 
write by candle-light, he was very soon cured. 

Blindness, or at least, miserable weakness of 
sight, is often brought on by these unsuspected 
causes. Those who have weak eyes should there* 
fore be particularly attentive to such circumstances, 
since prevention is easy, but the cure may be diffi? 
cuit and sometimes impracticable. 

When the eye sensibly flattens, all delay is dan- 
gerotis ; and the longer those, who feel the want of 
assistance, defer the use of spectacles, the more 
they will increase the failure of the eye ; there are 
loo many who procrastinate the use of them, till at 
last they are obliged to use glasses of ten or twelve 
inches focus, instead of those of thirty-six or forty, 
which would otherwise have suited them ; thus pre- 
ferring a real evil to avoid one that is imaginary. 
Mr. Thomin mentions several deplorable cases of 
this kind, particularly one of a lady, who through 
false shame had abstained from wearing spectacles 
so long a time, that at last it was impossible to suit 
her, but with those adapted to eyes that have been 
couched. Whereas the instances are numerous 
of those who by using glasses of a long focus at the 
first approaches of long-sightedness, have brought 
bacjk their eyes to their natural sight, and have been 
able to lay aside their spectacles for years. 

554. Comfort for those nearly blind. 

Inscriptions on dark blue glazed paper, written 

with white ink, have been found very legible by 

penoDB afflicted with bad eyes, who have bad many 



ANTIDOTES TO POISONS. 275 

things written in a strong plain hand for that pur- 
pose. The ink is made with gum water and flake 
white, finely powdered ; it must be often shaken, 
even whilst you are writing, as the flake white very 
soon subsides. A common pen will do very wqH fox 
the writing. A bright yellow, or dark green paper, 
is likewise very easily read. 

555* To cure a bruise in the eye. 

Take conserve of red roses, and also a rotten ap- 
ple, put them in a fold of thin cambric, apply it to 
the eye, and it will draw the bniise out. 



SECT. III.— ANTJDOTES TO NOXIOUS SUB- 
STANCES AND ANIMALS. 

5b^m To prevent the effects of poison of had on 

Painters^ Glaziers^ ire. 

The physicians and surgeons of the Bath Hospi- 
tal have ordered the following cautions to be Qiade 
public, to be observed particularly by printers or 
compositors, plumbers, glaziers, painters, and other 
artificers. 

To maintain the stricteflrt temperance respecting 
distilled spirits, which bad better be altogether for- 
borne. To pay the strictest attention to cleanii* 
uess ; and never when it can be avoided, to daub 
their hands with piunt, ajid patticularly, not to eat 
their meals,, or go to rest, without washing their 
hands and face. Not to eat or drink in the room or 
place wherein they work, and much less to suffer any 
food or drink to remain exposed to the fumes or dust 
of the metal in theroema or warehouses. As the 
clothes of persons in this line (painters particularfy) 
arO) generally observed to be ipuch soiled with the 
colours tbey U6e>it is recommended to them to per- 



376 . HEALTH. 

form their work in frocks of ticking, which maj be 
frequently washed, and conveniently taid aside, 
when the workmen go to their meals, and again put 
on when they resume their work. Every business 
which can, in these branches, should be performed 
with gloves on the hands ; and woolen or worsted 
gloves are recommended, as they may be often 
washed, as they should always be after being soil- 
ed with paint, or even by much rubbing against the 
metal. Caution is necessary in mixing, or even in 
unpacking, the dry colours, that the fine powder 
does not get into their mouths, or be drawn in bjr 
their breath. A crape covering over the face 
might be. of service, but care should be taken to 
turn always the same side towards the face, and to 
clean or wash it frequently. Ail artificers should a- 
void touching lead when hot ; and this caution is 
especially necessary for printers or compositors, 
who have often lost the use of their limbs by hand- 
ling the types when drying by the fire, after being 
washed. Glaziers putty should never be made or 
moulded by the hand. An iron pestle and mortar 
would work the ingredients together, at least equal- 
ly well, and without hazard. 

657. To prevent the baneful effects of burning char- 
coal. 

Set an uncovered vessel, filled with boiling water, 
over the pan containing the charcoal, the vapour of 
which will counteract the deleterious fumes, and 
while it keeps boiling will make charcoal as safe 
as any other fuel. 

558. To prevent the mischief arising from the bite 

of a mad dog. 

Where the excision of the part bitten can be im- 
mediately performed, it is the best preventive of 
danger, or where the part can be burifc out by the 



ANTIDOTES TO POISONS. 277 

application of a red hot iron, little clanger is likely 
to happen. Nothing else is at ail to be depended on. 

559. To prevent death from the bite of venomous 

Animals. 

From observations made by Dr. Bancroft, it is 
found that in South America, where the roost vene- 
mous serpents abound, that a very tight ligature in- 
stantly made after the bite between the part bitten 
and the trunk of the body, will prevent immediate 
danger, and allow time for proper means of remedy, 
either by excision of the wholejoint, just above the 
ligature, or by topical applications upon the part 
bitten. 

For instance, if the bite should be upon the end 
of the finger, a tight ligature of small cord should 
immediately be made beyond the next joint of the 
finger. 

If the bite is on any part of the hand, the ligature 
should be made above the wrist by means of a gar- 
ter or cord, lapped several times round the arm and 
rendered as tight as possible by a small stick thrust 
betwixt the folds of the cord or garter, and twisted 
round very hard, to prevent the circulation of the 
blood betwixt the part bitten and the other part of 
the body. Ligatures of the same kind, apphed by 
^ny one present, or the man himself, will frequent- 
ly save a person's life, where, by accident, an art- 
ery in any of the limbs is wounded, and the person^ 
would otherwise bleed to death before regular sur- 
gical assistance could be given. 

560. To counteract the baneful effects of poison* 

Whenever arsenic has been takei> internally, by 
design or mistake, the best medicine is sulphuret of 
potash [liver of sulphur] dissolved in water. A few 
scruples should be dissolved in half a pint or a pint 
of water, and administered a littlest a tjme, as the 
patient can bear it. 

2 A 






27^' HEALTH. 



561. Cure for the poison of the deadly nightshade. 

Give the patient ^n emetic as soon as possible, 
then let him drink vinegar, or lemon juice, about a 
pint, diluted in an equal quantity of water, in the 
course of the day, and let him walk about to pre- 
vent steep, which would most certainly prove fatal. 



SECT. IV.— MANAGEMENT, &c. OF THE 

TEETH, 

562. Method of causing children to cut their teeth 

easily* 

Feed them with an ivory spoon and boat, to be 
made thick, round and smooth at the edges ; ivory 
being of the same hardness and texture as the jaws 
and tender teeth, the gums are not hurt or injured, 
but when they are thus pressed facilitate the teeth 
in their progress ; whereas the silver implements, 
being of a hard texture, and the edges made thin, 
bruise and wound the gums, and make a hard seam ; 
so that the teeth cannot make their way direct, and 
if they do cut, come irregularly ; so that the opera- 
tion of lancing is frequently absolutely necessary, 
which of course must prejudice the teeth, as some 
are exposed before the time they are fit to cut. 

By this method, fevers, convulsions, &c. owing to 
the teeth being not able to find their way through 
the hard seam, may be prevented. It must be often 
observed, that children cry much when feeding, as if 
ill, or disgusted with their food, whereas it is fre- 
quently owing to quite the contrary: for being 
hungry, and over eager to take their food, they 
press hard through eagerness, on the boat and 
spoon, which, being sharp, bruises and cuts the 
gums, and consequently causes great pain, which by 



MANAGEMENT OF THE TEETH. 279 

the ivory implements will be prevented. Those 
who cannot afford ivory may have horn or wood, or 
even pewter is greatly preferable tosilver, provided 
the edges are made thick, rounds and smooth. The 
wooden sort, unless they are kept very sweet and 
clean, on that very account are the least eligible, 
and should be made, however of box, or such hard 
and close textured wood as is the least liable to be 
tainted by the milky food. 

563. Rules for the preservation of the teeth and 

gums. 

The teeth are bones, thinly covered over with a 
(ine enamel, and this enamel is more or less substan- 
tial in difftjrent persons. Whenever this enamel is 
worn through by too coarse a powder, or too fre- 
quent cleaning the teeth, or eaten through by a 
scorbutic humour in the gums, the tooth cannot re- 
main long sound, any more than a filbert kernel 
can, when it has been penetrated by a worm. 

The teeth therefore, are to be cleaned, but with 
great precaution, for if you wear the enamel off 
faster by cleaning the outside than nature supplies 
it within, your teeth will suffer more by this method 
than perhaps by a total neglect. A butcher's skew- 
er, or the wood with which they are made, must be 
bruised and bit at the end, till with a little use it w\\\ 
become the softest and best brush for this purpose, 
and in^ general you mii^t clean your teeth with this 
brush alone, without any powder whatever ; and 
once in a fortnight, or oftener, dip your skewer- 
brush into a few grains of gunpowder, breaking 
them first with the brush, and this will remove every 
spot and blemish, and give your teeth an incon- 
ceivable whiteness. It is almost needless to say 
that the mouth must be well washed after this ope- 
ration, for, besides the necessity of so doing, the 



2&0 HEALTH. 

saltpeire, &c* used in the compositioD of gunpow- 
der, would, if it remains, be injurious to the gums, 
&c* hut has not, nor can have, any bad effect in so 
short a time. 

It is hecessarj to observe, that very near the 
gums of people, whose teeth are otherwise good, 
there is apt to grow a false kind of enamel, both 
within and without, and this false enamel or tartar, 
if neglected, pushes the gums higher, aBd higher, till 
it leaves the fangs of the teeth quite bare, above the 
true enamel, so that sound teeth are destroyed be- 
cause the gum has forsaken that part which is not 
sheathed and protected in consequence of such 
glent. This false enamel must therefore be care- 
fully scaled off, for the gum will no more grow over 
the least particle of this false enamel, than the flesh 
will heal over the point of a thorn. 

564. To prevent the tooth-ache. 
Clean the teeth well and regularly. 

565. Eaey^ safe and pleasant method of removing tar- 

tar from the teeth. 

Raspberries or strawberries (particularly the lat- 
ter) frequently eaten, have been found, by experi- 
ence, to dissolve the tartarous concretions of the 
teeth ; and Linnaeus asserted, that in his own case, 
they completely cured the gout ; viz. the strawber- 
ry eaten plentifully. 

566. Tincture for the teeth and gums. 

Illlix six ounces of tincure of Peruvian bark with 
half an ounce of sal-ammoniac. Shake them well a 
few minutes, every time, before the tincture is used. 
The method of using it is, to take a tea-spoonful 
and hold it near the teeth ; then, with a finger dip- 
ped in, rubbing the gums and teeth, which are aft- 
erward, to be washed with warm water. This tinc- 
ture not only cures the tooth-ache, but preserve? 



kEMEDlES rOR LOCAL AFFECTIONS. 281 

both the teeth and gums, and makes them adhere to 
each other. 

567. Toothpowder. 

To one ounce of fine powder of bark, and one 
ounce of gum myrrh, add three fourths of an ounce 
of bole armenic, mix these ingredients well loge- 
Iher, and they will produce an excellent tooth pow- 
der, valuable in itself, and highly approved of by 
many gentlemen of the faculty. 

568. Another. 

Pound charcoal, as fine as posssible, in a mortar, 
or grind it in a mill, then well sift it, and apply a , 
little of it to the teeth about twice a week, and it 
will not only render them beautifully white, but 
will also make the breath sweet, and the gums firm 
and comfortable. 

If the charcoal is ground in a mortar, it is conve- 
nient to grind it in water, to prevent the dust from 
flying about. Indeed the powder is more convenient 
for use when kept in water. 

SECT, v.— REMEDIES FOR VARIOUS LO- 

CAL AFFECTIONS. 

569. Easy and almost instantaneous cure for the 

Ague. 

When the fit is on, take a new-laid egg, in a glass 
of brandy, and go to bed immediately. 

This very simple recipe has cured a great many 
after more celebrated preparations have proved iin- 
successful. 

570. M* HomassePs account of his cure for burns 

and scalds. 

Take half a pound of alum in powder, dissolve-it 

2 A 2 



282 HEALTH. • 

in a quart of water ; bathe the burn or scald with 
a linen rag wet in this mixture ; then bind the wet 
rag thereon with a slip of linen, and moisten the 
bandage with the alum water frequently, without 
removing it, in the' course of two or three days. He 
relates, ttiat one of his workmen who fell into a 
copper of boiling liquor where he remained three 
minutes before taken out, was immediately put into 
a tub containing a saturated solution of alum in wa- 
ter, where he was kept two hours ; his sores were 
then dressed in cloths and bandages, wet in the 
above mixture, and kept constantly moistened for 
twenty-four hours, and that in a few days he was 
able to return to business. 

57 1 • Remedy for burns* 

A little spirit of turpentine, applied to recent 
burns, will mitigate the pain, if not wholly remove 
it. 

572. Another. 

A little sweet oil and lime water shaken toge- 
ther, makes a liniment, which, when kept applied 
to the part, will remove the pain. 

573. Efficacy of vinegar in curing bums and 

scalds. 

The application of vinegar to burns and scalds is 
to be strongly recommended. It possesses active 
powers, and is a great antisceptic and corrector of 
putrescence and mortification. The progressive 
tendency ofburns of the unfavourable kind, or ill- 
treated, is to putrescence end mortification. Where 
the outward skin is not broken, it may be freely us- 
ed every hour or two ; where the skin is broken, 
and it gives pain, it must be gently used. But 
equal parts of vinegar and water, in a tepid state, 
used freely every three or four hours, are generally 



REMEDIES FOR LOCAL AFFECTIONS* 283 

the best application, and the best rule to be direct- 
ed by. 

House-leek, either applied by itself, or mixed 
with cream, gives present relief in buros, and oth- 
er external inflammation. 

574. Porter plaster for bruises. 

This simple, singular, and safe remedy for bruis- 
es, is nothing more than a gallon of porter simmer- 
ed in an earthen vessel, till, when cool, it will be 
of the consistence of a plaster. Thi^ preparation 
was spread on an old glove, and applied round the 
ancle of a coachman, who was thrown off bis box, 
and miserably bruised. In three days it so efiectu- 
ally performed a cure, that he was enabled to re- 
mount his box, perfectly relieved from all swelling 
and pain. 

575. Easy method of attracting earwigs from the 

ear. 

A person lately having an earwig crept into his 
ear, and knowing the peculiar fondness that insect 
has to apples, imthediately applied a piece of ap- 
ple to the ear, which enticed the creature out, and 
thereby prevented the alarming consequences 
which might otherwise have ensued. 

576. To kill earwigs, or other insects j which may 

accidentally hcive crept into the ear. 

Let the person under this distressingcircumstance 
lay his head upon a table, (he side upwards that is 
afflicted ; at the same time let some friend carefully 
drop into the ear a little sweet oil, or oil of almonds. 
A drop or two will be sufficient, which will instant- 
ly destroy the insect, and remove the pain, howe- 
ver violent. 

577. For a pain m the ear. 

Oil of sweet almonds twd drams, and oil of am- 



j2B4 ukalth. 

ber four drops ; apply four drops of this mixture, 
when in pain, to the part aifectcd. 

578. Remedy for (ka/ntss. 

Put a table-spoonful of bay salt into near half a 
pint of cold spring water, and after it has steep- 
ed therein twenty-four hours, (now^and (hen shak- 
ing the pliial,) cause a smalt tea-spoonful of the 
same to be poured into the ear most aiTected, every 
night when in bed, for seven or eight nights suc- 
cessively, observing to lay your head on the oppo- 
site side, by which the cure is generally completed. 

579. For chilblains. 

Soak them in warm bran and water, then rub 
them well with mustard-seed flour ; but it will be 
better if they are done before they break. 

580. To prevent corns from growing on the feet. 

Easy shoes; frequently bathing the feet in luke- 
warm water, with a little salt or potashes dissolved 
in it. 

The corn itself will be completely destroyed b\ 
rubbing it daily with a little caustic solution o\ pot- 
ass, till a soft and flexible skin is formed. 

581. Cure for warts. 

The milky juice of the stalks of spurge, or of the 
common fig leave, by persevering application, will, 
to a certainty, soon remove them. 

58"2. Court plasttr. 

Take of isinglass, half an ounce ; TuriiDgtou's 
(or Friar's) balsam, a dram; melt the isinglass in 
an ounce of water, and boil the solution till a great 
part of the water is consumed ; then add gradually 
to it the balsam, stirring them well together. After 
the mixture has continued a short time on the fare, 
take the vessel off, and spread the extended silk 



REMEDIES FOR LOCAt AFFECTIONS. 285 

with it, while it is yef fluid with heat, using a brush 
for spreading it* 

583. Certain cure for the cramp* 

An effectual preventive for the cramp in the calves 
of the legs, which is a most grievous pain, is to 
stretch out the heel of the leg as far as possible, at 
the same time drawing up the toes towards the bo- 
dy. This will frequently stop a fit of the cramp 
after it has commenced ; and a person will, after a 
few times, be able, in general, to prevent the fit 
coming on, though its approach be between sleep- 
ing and waking. Persons subject to this complaint 
should have a board fixed at the. bottom of the bed, 
against which the foot should be pressed when the 
pain commences. 

584. Simple remedy for the cure of lameness by 
contraction. From the prenflem^n^s Magazine, 
July, 1809. 

'' Many years ago, while I lived at Yeovil, in 
Somersetshire, my advice as a surgeon was desired 
for a poor man's child, a boy about nine years old, 
one of whose legs were contracted more than when 
a person is sitting in a chair; he could neither stretch 
it out, nor move it. I prescribed a relaxing lini- 
ment, of which currier's oil was one chief ingredi- 
ent ; and ordered the parts affected to be gently 
rubbed ; but it was of no grejit service. I then con- 
sidered what farther might be done for his relief : 
and it came into my mind that the glovers of the 
t9wn brought ^eir kid skins, which were dry, stiff, 
and hard, to be soft and supple as gloves, by rub- 
bing them with a liquor made of the yolks of eggs 
and water; hereupon I ordered the contracted parts 
of his leg to be gently rubbed two or three times a 
day with the egg liquor, and by this means he soon 
recovered the perfect use of his leg. The liquor I 
advise to be thus made : take the yolk of a new 



?86 HEALTH* 

laid egg, let it be beaten with a spoon to the great- 
est thinness, tbef^. by a spoonful at a time, add 
three ounces of pure water, airitating the mixture, 
that the egg and water may be well incorporated, 
and let it be applied by gentle friction. 

'' This remedy I have since advised in like cases 
with the like happy success ; and others to whonn I 
have communicated it have found the same advan- 
tage in similar cases. 1 therefore, for the good of 
those afBicted with lameness by corUraction, traii^s- 
mit the above." 

Remark, — Friction is well known to be useful in 
such ca^es ; and whether the cure is performed by 
the egg, or the friction, is of no moment. 

585. To make c/ircr, or s^oose-jorrass ointment ; re- 
markahle for its salutary effects in cases of invcft^ 
rate scurvt/. 

To a pound of hog's lard melted, without spice 
or salt, put as much clivers as the lard will moisten, 
and boil them together over a slow fire ; after stir- 
ring it till it becomesa little brown, strain it throii:^li 
a cloth ; and when cold take the ointment from the 
water that will remain at the bottom, and it will be 
tit for use. 

586. Easy method of curing the sea scurvy. 

The root of the garden carrot abounds in a nu- 
tritious saccharine jnice, And is slightly aromatic. 
These are desirable properiies again>t thj scurvy. 
To experience the gOi)d etfects of these properiies, 
the roots mu?t be eaton raw. Ther«5 is notlunj; un- 
pleasant in this ; on the contrary, it is what the 
common people often do b) choice. These roots 
would keep well during the longrst voyai^e, packed 
up in casks, having the intrrsticrs tilled with sand. 
Each sailor might be allowed to eat one root every 
day, or every othtT day, according to the state ot' 
their health, and the quantity of tools on board. 



REMEDIES FOR LOCAL AFFECTIONS, 287 

587. Method for the speedy recovery of the use of 
the foot or hand that has been violently sprained. 

It may lead to a right management of the part 
strained, if weconsider the effects of a strain when 
it is very great. 

First. Such an extension of the tendons and ves- 
sels of the muscles strained, that they cannot con- 
tract themselves to their natural lengths. 

Second. That thegreat elongation of the vessels, 
which deprives them of their contractile power, 
lessens the diameter of their cavities, obstructs the 
free course of the fluids through them, makes them 
swell and become painful, and incapable of their 
actual service, or of being moved by the acts of the 
will, as before the accident happened. 

These effects of violent sprains may lead us to 
conclude that the best remedies are those applica* 
tions which may best attenuate their obstructc d 
fluids, recover an easy circulation of them, and suf- 
flciently contract the elongated vessels. ^|^ 

For these purposes I advise vinegar, the rectified 
spirits of wine, such as are burnt in lamps, friction 
and motion, in (he following manner, viz. 

Suppose the ancle sprained. 

First. Let it be fomented with vinegar, a little 
warm, for four or five minutes at a time, once every 
four hours; this will render the circulation of the 
fluids in the parts affected more easy, and either 
prevent its swelling or promote its subsiding. 

Second. Let the person stand three or four min- 
utes at a time on both his feet in their natural pos- 
ture, -and sometimes move the sprainetl foot, and 
sometimes when sitting with his foot on a low stool 
let him move it this way and that, as he can bear 
it : this will contribute much to contract the over- 
stretched vessels, and to recover a due circulation 
of their fluids through them. 

Third. Let a gentle dry friction with a warm 



288 HEALTH. 

hand be sometimes used to the parts affected, which 
will conduce much to the same ends* 

Two hours after every application of vinegar, 
let the parts affected be just wetted with rectified 
spirits of wine, and gently rubbed. 

By these means, persons to whom I hav« advis* 
ed them have recovered from the effects of very 
violent sprains in a few days, when others have becD 
weeks in recovering, where different ways of man- 
agement, such as continual resting of the strained 
foot, and disuse of its motions, &c. had been recom- 
mended. 

5d^. To alleviate the pain occasioned by the sling 

of gnats. 

The disagreeable itching occasioned by the sting 
of these insects may be removed by volatile alkali, 
or immediately rubbing and washing the part af- 
fected with cold water. 

,At night, to rub with fuIler^s earth and water 
lessens the inflammation. 

589. Simple and effectual cure for those who may 

accidentally have swallowed a wasp. 

Instantly, on the alarming accident taking place, 
put a tea-spoonful of common salt in your mouth, 
which will instantaneously not only kill the wasp, 
but at the same time heal the sting. 

590. To cure the sting of a wa^p or bee. 

To the part affected, apply oil of tartar, or solu- 
tion of potash, and it will give instant ease \ as also 
well bruised mallows. 

591. Another. 

Sweet oil, applied immediately, cures the sting 
of wasps and bees ; and if the sting is left in the 
wound, it should, if possible, be extracted with 
hair pincers. 



REMEDIES FOR LOCAL AFFECTIONS. 389 

d92* Another. 

The immediate application of Eau du Luce to 
many persons who have been stung by wasps, has 
caused the pain to subside in a few seconds, and 
after a few minutes all inflammation ceased. 

593. To cure the sting of a wasp orbee.^ 

It has been found by experience, that a good 
remedy for the sting of wasps and bees, is to apply 
to the part affected common culinary salt, moisten- 
ed with a little water. Even in a case where the 
patient had incautiously swallowed a wasp in a 
draught of beer, and been stung by it in the wind- 
pipe, the alarming symptoms that ensued were al- 
most instantly relieved by swallowing repeated 
doses of water, saturated with salt. The rubbing 
of the part stung, with a slice of onion, will give 
immediate ease. 

594. To prevent sea sickness. 

Drop a few drops of vitriolic aether upon loaf su- 
gar, and let it dissolve in your mouth ; or drink a 
tew drops of aether, added to a solution of sugar, in 
water, to prevent its immediate evaporation. 

596. Remedy for a sore throat. 

Take rosemary tops, about a handful, put them 
into a basin, and pour a pint of boiling hot ver- 
juice upon it ; then cover it over with a tin funnel, 
the broad side downwards, and the steam will come 
through the nozzle of the funnel ; then hold your 
mouth over the steam till it is gone down your 
throat. 

N. B. Be very careful that you do not put your 
mouth too close to the funnel, as it may scald it, 
but let the steam go down your throat as much as 
possible, and repeat it as often as necessair. 

2B 



2SH) HEALTH. 

596. A common drink for a sore throat. . 

Take two ouDces of Turkey figs, and the like 
quaptitj of raisiDB of the sun, and cut them small; 
two ounces of French or pearl barley, boiled in 
three pints of spring water till it comes to a quart, 
and then strain through a sieve. To be token 
warm. Boil it slowly over a gentle fire. 

597. Gargle for a aore throat. 

Take half a pound of Turkey figs, put them into 
a quart of spring water, and let them simmer over a 
slow fire till better than one-half is wapted ; in the 
mean time, take a large lemon, cut it in slices, and 
between every slice pnt some brown sugar-candy, 
and let it stand before the fire to roast ; then strain 
the figs ; and squeeze them through a coarse cloth, 
and put the juice of the lemon into it. 

N* B. Gargle the throat with it warm, and the of- 
tener the better. 

598. j1 receipt for a cough. 

Take a glass of spring water and put into it a 
spoonful of the syrup of borehound, and mix with it 
nine or ten drops of the spirit of sulphur. 

599. An excellent styptic. 

The outside woof of silk-worms has been tried 
with great success by several people, more espe- 
cially by a lady, who in mending a pen, cut her 
thumb to the bone, and through part of the nail ; it 
bled precisely ; but, by trying this styptic, and bind- 
ing up the wound, the hemorrhage stopped, and the 
wound healed in three days. 

600. A new and useful styptic. 

T^ke brandy, or common spirit, two ounces ; 
Castile soap two drams, pot-ash one dram ; scrape 
ttif* pnar nne, and dissolve it in the brandy ; then 
add the pot-ash, and mix it well together, and 



REMEDIES FOR LOCAL AFFECTIONS. 291 

keep it close stopped from the air in a phial* When 
you apply it, warm it in a veasel, or dip pledges of 
lint into it, and the blood will immediately congeal. 
It operates by coagulating the blood, both a con- 
siderable way within the vessels, as well as the ex- 
travasated blood without, and restraining, at the 
same time, the mouth of the vessels. 

It forms a valuable embrocation, in cases of tu- 
mours, or swellings from bruises, by being frequent- 
ly rubbed on the part. It is also used in a similar 
manner for rheumatic pains. 

601. Infallible remedy for stopping bleeding of the 

nose. 

One ounce of sugar of lead,. and half an ounce of 
green vitriol, to be triturated in a glass mortar ; add 
to these half a pint of spirits of wine. Of this com- 
position, yoTAig people, from ten to twelve years of 
age, are to take ten or twelve drops ; patients under 
twenty years, fourteen or fifteen drops, and grown 
persons, twenty drops, four times each, in a spoon- 
ful of wine or brandy. Some yery interesting trials, 
in the most obstinate cases, have been made with 
this mixture, with the greatest success. 

Remark, — No salt of lead should be taken inttr- 
nally without medical advice. It is a powerful 
drug ; that is, if proper precautions or propor- 
tions are neglected or exceeded, it is a strong poi- 
son. The green vitriol can have no other eflect 
than to decompose part of the sugar or acetite 
of lead ; that is, to convert the acetite in part, into 
sulphat of lead, which is insoluble ; and nearly all 
the green vitriol, or sulphat of iron, into acetite of 
iron. 

602. For curing worms in the human body* 

Take senna leaves, well bruised, half a pound ; 
dlive oil, twelve ounces ; digebted together in a satvd 



293 HEALTH, 

heat four or five dajs ; then, by a iitroDg expression, 
force the oil from the fseces, which reserve by itself. 

N. B. In the most obstinate worm case, which 
eludes the force tof mercurials, and baffles the ef- 
forts of the most famous specifics, this successfully 
kills worms, grubs, and ascarids (which last kind 
eause extreme itching,) and by stools expel them. 

Dose : one spoonful, fasting, and persevere in it. 

603. To make an improved tincture of bark. 

Red bark jgrossly powdered, one ounce ; of snake 
root, in powder, six drams ; saflfron, one dram and 
a half; cochineal, ten grains; orange peel, one 
ounce«and a half. Steep the above articles in one 
pint of the best brandy, and you uill have a tinc- 
ture equally good as the famous Dr. Huxham^s. 

604. Observations on leeches and their use. 

The general demand for these useful reptilea^ 
the high price at which they are now sold, induces 
us to give some particulars on taking, preserving, 
and applying them, from a person who has attend- 
ed to this business. 

The large brown leech is the only kind in use ; 
they are in general from two inches to six, though 
they are capable of much greater extension and con- 
traction ; sometimes they are seen darting through 
the water with great swiftness, at which time they 
are very long, at other times they will contract them- 
selves into a form almost round. They are much 
rounder in body than the horse leech (which, 
contrary to common report, will not fasten to the 
human body,) with a degree of taper towards each 
end. The colour is black, and brown stripes on 
their backs ; the belly is covered with dark brown, 
intersperspd with light brown spots. The method 
of catching them usually employed in Eny'-i.-.d, is 
jigit itir.g the waters where they arcco) • - -^Nvhirh 
occasions them to float upon the suriace lUeieof, 



OBSERVATIONS ON LEECHES* ^93 

when, with a net made for the purpose, they are se- 
cured. Other methods are employed, which would 
be tedious and unnecessary to relate. ~ They are 
viviparous, bringiog forth their young with all their 
power, capable of acting in every respect in which 
this animal is distinguished. The time of fecundi- 
ty is in the months of April and May, the latter end 
of August and September; the number of young 
ones a single leech brings forth in one year can 
hairdly be asceitained, though it is very numerous ; 
for when the leech catchers rob a pond of all lanze 

. enough for use, if nothing happens to obstruct fe- 
cundation, in two years afterwards thev will find it 
largely stored with abundance of fine leeches, and 
a much increased number of small ones ; this is 
particularly found to be the case, from the method 
which some country people have adopted to obtain 
leeches as an exclusive property. In order to this, 
they make a pond, near their house, about three 

' feet deep, twenty wide, and thirty long ; if they 
cannot conveniently form one with a sandy bottom, 
they make the pond a little deeper, in which they 
deposit a few loads of sandy earth. In this pond, 
when filled with water, they put their leeches about 
April, and without any further trouble or expense, 
they obtain, at the proper season, a large supply 
of leeches. 

Leeches may, with care, be preserved healthy 
and good for years in pans : during the summer 
season not more than two hundred should be kept 
together ; in winter, double that number may with 
equal propriety. The vessel they are kept in should 
be an earthen pan, that will contain about three 
gallons of water, which should not be more than 
half filled with water ; for I have found, by experi- 
ence, that it id congenial to their nature to have a 
place out of the water, which they may retreat to 
at pleasure ; this is proved by their often baud^n^ 

2B^ 



994 HEALTtt. 

in clusters round the top of the pan* trom Blay 
till September their water should be changed, at 
least every other day ; in winter everjr fourth day* 
The best water to keep them in is spring water, 
as being the least disposed to putresency. I have 
of late put a little moss amongst leeches, which prac* 
tice I would recommend, for they are very miicb 
enamoured with it, perhaps from its. resembling, in 
some measure, their native weeds f they creep 
through it, and by that means clear themselves of 
slime, which in the warm weather accumulates a- 
Found them, and unless removed by timely changes 
of water, will be productive of disease. During hot 
weather they should be kept in as cool a place at 
possible, and in the winter season place them where 
the water may preserve that degree of warmth ii 
possesses in summer. ' When you put fresh water 
to them, during the cold weather, it should be de- 
prived of that intense coldness which it possesses 
at that season of the year, by warming it in the 
smallest degree. The leech, as has been before 
said, feeds upon insects in its native waters, but 
may be, as above hinted, kept in water only for 
years, though they dwindle by keeping ; they re- 
main healthy, and will take with as much avidity as 
those recently taken from the waters, provided 
they are well attended to, with respect to changing 
their water agreeably to the rules laid down. 

The mode which I have found, by copious expe- 
rience, to be infinitely the best (being attended 
with quickness, certainty, and efficacy,) i^ as fol- 
lows : Let the part be first carefully washed clean 
with warm milk and water ; if very dirty and re- 
quires it, a little soap may also be used ; when the 
part is thus washed and wiped dry, rub over the 
part a little milk, then see that your leech is wiped 
dry with a smooth cloth, which being done, lake it 
four fiagers by the middle, and apply its 



OBSERVATIONS ON LEECHES. 395 

month to the very spot you wish ; you will, per- 
haps, find it, at first, twist and extend itself in your 
fingers, and then wish to attach itself to some con- 
trary part ; but as repeatedly as it extends itself' 
around, or attempts to fix upon a wrong situation, 
you must as repeatedly draw it back and re-apply 
it to the proper part ; by so doing you will find it 
will presently ^eize the precise spot wished for ; 
when you find this you must not hastily let the leech 
go, for they will sometimes seem to seize the part 
with great avidity, and in a few seconds let go their 
hold ; but when you are convinced the leech has 
good bold, you may then let go, and leave it .to the 
employment it enjoys. 

I here find it necessary to remark, that the small 
end of the leech is the head, whereas I have repeat- 
edly observed, that the greater part of the people, 
from the tail of the leech being much broader than 
the head, mistake the one from the other, and there- 
by occasion themselves a great deal of fruitless la- 
bour. When the animal has fastened himself he 
generally expands the tail, and sometimes attaches 
it very firmly to another part of the skin, but with- 
out the least pain to the part ; this hold, I have ob- 
served, the leech does not quit till it is charged 
with blood, and then drops off all at once. 

I would here observe, that the quantity of blood 
the leech imbibes, is in general insufficient to an- 
swer the purpose : therefore, when the leech comes 
off, it is necessary to have a basin of warm water, 
and a spunge or rag, to keep bathing the orifice, in 
order to encourage the bleeding for an hour or two; 
if the orifice seem disposed to bleed any longer than 
wished for, apply a piece of lint, three or four 
times double, and bandage it up. 

605. Singularly t^seful properties of garlic* 
The smell of garlic, which is formidable to manf 



396 INK. 

ladies, 18, perhaps, the mostiofallible remedjio the 
world against the vapours, and all the nervous dis? 
orders to which women are subject. Of this (says 
St. Pierre) I have had repeated experience. 

606. The usefulness of tvto common plants. 

Every plant in the corn-field possesses virtues 
particularly adapted to the maladiesincident to the 
condition of the labouring man. The poppy cures 
the pleurisy, procures sleep, stops haemorrhages, 
and spitting of blood.- Poppy seeds form an enuil- 
sion similar to that from almonds in every respect 
when prepared in the same manner. They-<also 
yield, by expression, fine salad oil, like that from 
Florence. The blue bottle is diuretic, vulnery, 
cordial, and cooling ; an antidote to the stings of 
venomous insects, and a remedy for inflammation 
of the eyes. 



CHAPTER XXVII. 

INK. 



607. To make, ink. 

To three quarts of water add three pints of white 
wine vinegar; fifteen ounces of blue galls slightly 
bruised ; let these stand near a fire six dajs ; then 
put in six ounces of green copperas, and seven 
ounces of gum arabic Inely pounded ; permit the 
whole to remain near a fir^ six days more, and be 
frequently stirred up ; strain the liquor through a 
fine cloth, and bottle it up for use. 

Remark. — The vinegar improves the colour of 
the ink, but it has the troublesome effect of destroy- 



tNK* 297 

ifig the pen very quickly. Pronet says, the best 
ink is made by digesting the infosion of galls in pure 
water, upon iron. That process certainly makes 
a' very good ink. The proper proportion of gum is 
of course added. 

608. To mak$ one gallon of black writing ink. 

Into a glazed stone jar or pitcher put one pound 
of Aleppo galls, slightly *bruised ; then add one gal- 
lon of rain water, nearly of a boiling heat ; let these 
stand together for fourteen days upon the kitchen 
hearthi or moderately warm ; after that time add 
four ounces of green copperas or sulphate of iron, 
four ounces of logwood chips orshavings, one ounce 
of alum, one ounce of sugar-candy, and four oun- 
ces of gum arabic or Senegal. Let the whole re- 
main ten or twelve days longer in a moderate heat, 
the mouth of the vessel slightly covered with paper. 
Stir the ingredients well with a stick twice a day 
during the whole time ; then strain off the ink 
through linen or flannel, bottle it, pour a little 
brandy on the top of the ink in each bottle, then 
cork them well, and keep them for use in a place 
of temperate heat. 

This ink may be depended upon as excellent, 
durable, and preserving the writing all a deep 
black. 

N. ^. The best galls for the purpose are those ' 
which are dark coloured, heavy, and free from grub 
holes. 

609. Red ink. 

Take a quarter of a pound of the hast Brazil 
wood, (get it in the log if possible, and rasp or shave 
it yourself) one ounce of oreara of tartar, and one 
ounce of alum ; boil these ingredients in a quart of 
Clearwater till half is consumed, th^n add to the 
ink, when fiiterrd hot, one ounce of gum arabic 
and one ounce of fine sugar. 



298 iirfr. 

« 

A little salt added will prevent it from becoming 
mouldy. 

610. To prevent ink from moulding* 

Half a dozen cloves, bruised with gum arable, 
are to be put into the bottle. If a very fine ink is 
wanted, white wine, or vinegar and water, should 
be used instead of water alone. 

611. To make Indian ink* 

Put six lighted wicks into a dish of oil ; bang an 
iron or tin concave cover over it 60 as to receive all 
the smoke ; when there is a sufficient quantity of 
soot settled to the cover, then take it off gf^ntly 
with a feather upon a sheet of paper, and mix it up 
with gum tragacanth to a proper consistence, 

N. B. The clearest oil makes the finest soot^ 
consequently the best ink. 

612. To make China ink. 

Take dried black horse-beans, burn them to a 
powder, mix them up with gum arabic water, and 
bring them to a mass ; press it well and let it dry. 

6 1 3. Substitute for Indian ink* 

Boil parchment slips, or cuttings of glove leather, 
in water, till it forms a size, which, when cool, be- 
comes of the consistence of jelly ; then, having 
blackened an earthen plate, by holding it over the 
flame of a candle, mix up, with a camel hair pen- 
cil, the fine lamp black thus obtained, with some of 
the above size, while the plate is still warm. Thia 
black requires no grinding, and produces an ink ot 
the very colour, which works as freely with the 

fiencil, and is as perfectly transparent as the best 
ndian ink ; it possesses the advantage of furnish* 
ing artists with a substitute tor that article, which 
may be prepared in situations where it might be 
ditBiCuH to obtain the ink itself. 



INK* ^9 

614. German black for Printers. - 

' Take the lees of port wine, dry and burn them ; 
add thereto good ivory black, the stones of cher- 
ries, plums, or other stone fruit, burnt in close ves- 
sels, and fine soft charcoal made from burnt willow ; 
grind the whole well together into one mass, from 
which the best printing ink may be formed. 

615. Permanent toriting ink. 

As common writing ink is susceptible of being 
effaced by oxygenated muriatic acid, and as the 
knowledge of this fact may be abused to very frau- 
dulent purposes, the following composition for inks, 
absolutely indestructible, i» recommended to the 
notice of the curious. 

Boil one ounce of Brazil wood, and three ounces 
of nut-galls, in 46 ounces of water, till tbey shall 
be reduced to thirty ounces in all. Pour this decoc- 
tion, while it is yet hot, upon half an ounce of sul- 
phate of iron, or martial vitriol, a quarter of an 
ounce of gum arable, and a quarter of an ounce of 
white sugar. After these substances are dissolved, 
add to the solution one ounce and a quarter of indi- 
go, finely pulverized with three quarters of an ounce 
of lamp-black, very pure, of smoke black, previ- 
ously diluted in one ounce of the best brandy. 

The following receipt is still more simple : poil 
one ounce of Brazil wood with twelve ounces of 
water, and half an ounce of alum ; continufs the ebul- 
lition till the liquid mixture shall have been reduc- 
ed to eight ounces ; then add an punife pf the black 
oxide of manganese, which has been reduced by 
decantation to extreme fineness, and, in mixture 
wiU) it, half an ounce of gum arabic. 

Remark.— The chief advantage of this ink (said 
to be proposed by Schever) is, that it is in part a 
printer's ink : the black oxide of manganese, and 
the lamp-black, not being affected by acids, and 



300 INK* 

the indigo in powder bat slightly, so that they mast 
be effaced by rubbing or washing off, and not by 
solution; The ink, however, is not absolutely in- 
destructible, nor equal to the common indelible 
ink, which may he used on paper,- as well as silk, 
linen, and cotton cloths* 

616. Permanent Ytd ink for marking linen. 

This useful preparation, which was contrived by 
the late learned and ingenious Dr. Smellie, of Ed- 
inburgh, who was originally a printer in that city, 
may be used either with types, a hair pencil, or 
even with a pen. Take half an ounce of vermil- 
ion, and a dram of salt of steel ; let them be finely 
levigated with lineeed oil, to the thickness or lim- 
pidity required for the occasion. This has not only 
a very good appearance, but will, it is said, be 
found perfectly to resist the effects of acids, as well 
as of all alkaline leys. It may be made of other 
colours, by substituting the proper articles instead 
of vermilion. 

017. To make sympathetic, or invisible ink. 

Let quick-lime be quenched in comqnon water, 
and while quenching let some red orpimei\t be add* 
ed to it, (this however, ought to be done by placing 
warm ashes under it for a whole day,) and let the 
liquor be filtered and preserved in a glass bottle 
well corked. Then boil litharge of gold, well pound- 
ed, for half an hour, with vinegar, in a brass vessel, 
and filter the whole through paper, and preserve it 
also in a bottle closely corked. If you write any 
thing with this last water, with a clean pen, the 
writing will be invisible when dry ; but if it be 
washed over with the first water, it will become in- 
stantly black. And it is wonderful, that though 
sheets of paper without number, and even a board, 
be placed between the invisible writing and the se- 



PAINT — PAINTINGS. 301 

cond liquid, it will have the same effect, and turn 
the writing black, penetrating the wood and paper, 
without leaving anj traces of its action, which is 
certainly surprising. 

618. To make stuchum, or perpetual ink of the 
ancients, for writing on Stone. 

This ink, or stuchum, as it was formerly called, 
is made by mixing about three parts pitchy with one 
of lamp black, which are to be incorporated by 
melting (he pitch into the lamp-black. This com- 
position they used in a melted state, by filling up ihe 
letters previously marked on stones, which would, 
unless any extraordinary violence fvas used, endure 
as long as the stone itself. 



►:^:< 



CHAPTER XXVIII. 

PAINT-PAINTINGS—MANAGEMENT OF COLOURS^ 

619. Directions for painting rooms, rails, ^c. 

Red lead must be ground with linseed oil, and 
used very thin, it being the priming or first colour- 
ing ; when used, some drying oils must be put to it. 

620. To prepare drying oil arid paint* 

Put a Scots pint (two English quarts) of linseed 
oil in a pan, with a pint of burnt umber : boil it gent- 
ly two hours ; prepare this without doors, for fear 
of fire in the house ; when it settles it will be fit for 
use ; pour the clear off, and use it with the white 
lead ; the dregs will do for the red lead. 

621. For the second priming* 

Take a hundred weight of white lead, with an 

2C 



302 PAINT — PAINTINGS. 

« 

equal quantity of Spanish white in bulk but not in 
weight ; grind them pretty stifT with linseed oil ; 
when you use it, put in some of the above-mention- 
ed drying oil, with a little oil of turpentine; but do 
not lay on this till the first coat is very dry. 

622. To make putty and finish painting. 

Mix a quantity of whitening, very stiff, with lin- . 
seed oil, and drying oil, equal quantities ; when it 
cannot be wrought with the hand, more whitening 
murt be added, and beat up with a mallet, till it is 
^tiffer than dough ; when the second priming is dry, 
stop all holes and cracks with the putty ; when 
hard and dry lay on the last paint, viz. grind the best 
white lead very stiff with linseed oil ; when used put 
some of the drying oil to it, and oil of turpentine : 
this will preserve out-works a long time. 

N. B. For rooms and places within doors, your 
own fancy must direct you to the colours, only pro- 
ceed as above. 

623. To prepare blue colour from Verdigris. 

Take sal-ammoniac and verdigris, of each six 
ounces ; mix them well together with water of tar- 
tar to a paste ; put this intoa phial, andstopit close ; 
let it stand for several da)s, and you will have a 
tine blue colour. 

624. Ltad coloured paint for preserving iron. 

Take a small quantity of common litharge, and 
plac«3 it over the fire in a shovel ; afterwards, when 
sufficiently warm, scatter over it a little flour of 
brimstone, which will instantly convert it into a 
blackish colour, and which, when ground in oil, 
inak( s ji good dark lead colour. It dries quick, 
gets remarkably hard, and resists the weather bettor 
than any other lead colour. 



MANAGEMENT OF COLOURS. 30J 

625. Method of preparing a cheap sub si it ule for oil 
paint, as durable as that prepared with oil^ and 
free from any bad smell. 

Take fresh curds, and bruise the lumps on a 
grinding-stone, or in an earthen pan or mortar, with 
a spatula. After this operation, put them into a pot 
with an equal quantity of lime well quenched, and 
become thick enough to be kneaded ; stir this mix* 
ture well, without adding water, and you will soon 
obtain a white coloured fluid, which may be applied 
with as much facility ias varnish, and which dries 
very speedily. But it must be employed the same 
day, as it will become too thick the day following. 

Ochre, Armenian bole, and all colours which 
hold with lime, may be mixed wilh it, according to 
the colour which you wish to give the wood ; bat 
care must be taken that the addition of colour to the 
first mixture of curds and lime may contain very 
little water, else the painting will be less durable. 

When two coats of this paint have been laid on, 
it may be polished with a piece of woolen cloth or 
other proper substance, nnd it will become as bright 
as varnish. It is certain that no kind of painting 
can be so cheap ; but it possesses, besides, other 
advantages ; in the same day two coats may be 
laid on and polished, as it dries speedily and ha^ 
no smell. If it be required to give it more dura- 
bility in places exposed to moisture, do over the 
painting, after it has been polished, witli the white 
of an egg. This process will render it as durable 
as the best oil painting. 

626. Cheap black paint from earthy and mineral 

substances. 

Take of the blueish marly stone, found in copper, 
tin, and lead mines, (principally in the copper 
mines) and of iron stone, and of fine blue marie of 
slate, and of ochre, equal quantities, and reduce 



304 PAINT PAINTINGS. 

them by grinding or pounding to a very fine powder. 
To anj given quantity of the above-mentioned ma- 
terials when put together, add one eighth of their 
weight of lamp-black, so that there will be seven 
eighths of the earthy or mineral substances, and one- 
eighth of the lamp-black. This produces a superi- 
or black paint for wood, iron-, canvass, or any other 
thing for which paint is used ; but for the purpose 
of using such paint, it must be ground (in the usual 
manner of grinding colours} with oil, as commonly 
done by colourmen or painters (their boiled oil is 
to be preferred ;) and the same when mixed and 
made up as other paint generally is, may be used 
with the brush as in common practice. Ivory 
black may be substituted, but for general purposes 
lamp-black is preferable. 

C27. To make brown paint* , 

Take green muriate of copper, diluted with about 
ten parts of distilled or rain water; then pour in 
prussiate of lime until the whole is precipitated ; 
the prussiate of copper is then to be well washed, 
with cold water on the filter, and to be dried with- 
out heat. 

628. Composition for preserving zoeather hoardings 
palings and all other Works liable to be injured iy 
the weather. 

Lime, it is well known, when well burnt, will 
soon become slacked by exposure in the open air, 
or even if confined in a situation not remarkably 
dry, so as to crumble of itself into powder. This 
is called air slacked lime, in contradistinction to that 
which is slacked in the usual way, by being mixed 
with water. For the purpose of making the pres- 
ent useful composition to preserve all sorts of wood 
work exposed to the vicissitudes of the weather, 
take three parts of this air-slacked lime, two of wood 
ashes, and one of tine sand ; pass them through a 



I 

iSANAGEMENT 01* COLOURS. 30o 

fine sieve, and add as much linseed oil- to the com- 
position as will bring it to a proper consistence for 
working with a paiuter^s brush. As particular care 
must be taken to mix it perfectly, it should be 
ground on a stone slab with a proper muller, in the 
same manner as painters grind their white lead, 
&c. ; but, where these conveniences are not at 
hand, the ingredients may be mixed in a large pan, 
and well beat up with a wooden spatula. Two coats 
of this composition being necessary, the first may 
be rather thin ; btit the second should be as thick 
as it can conveniently be worked. This most excel- 
lent composition for preserving wood when exposed 
to th6 injuriesof the weather, is highly preferable to 
the customary method of laying on tar and ochre. 
It would be much improved by melting one half of 
coal tar with the linseed oil. 

629. To prepare the beautiful colour called Naples 

Yellow* 

The beautiful yellow colour, commonly sold un- 
der the name of Naples yellow, is well known. 
Those who buy it are often imposed upon, by being 
told that it is a substance produced from Mount 
Vesuvius ; but it is now known to be a composition 
by art. The process is composed of the following 
substances, viz. one pound of antimony, one pound 
and a half of lead, half an ounce of alum, and the 
same quantity of common salt. The antimony and 
lead should bei calcined together, afterwards the 
other ingredients added, and then the whole mix- 
ture undergoes a second calcination. 

630. Another method. 

To procure this colour, take twelve ounces of 
white lead, three ounces of diaphoretic antimony, 
alum and sal-ammoniac, of each one ounce. All 
these must be ground together dry, upon a levigating 

2C 2 



306 PAINT — PAINTINGS. 

stone ; thejr must then be pat into an open crucible, 
and ejqposed to a gentle fire for some hours ; tbe 
fire is afterwards to be increased during a certain 
time ; and finally tbe mixture is to continue three 
hours in a degree of beat sufficient to keep the crd- 
cible red hot* The mass will then be found to have 
acquired a beautiful yellow colour* If it is wished 
to be more of the colour of gold, a greater quantity 
of diaphoretic antimony and sal-ammoniac must be 
added to the other ingredients. 

It is probable that, instead •f diaphoretic anti- 
mony, the grey calx of antimony might be made 
use of. 

631. Mrs* Hooker* s method of preparing and ap- 
plying a composition for painting in imitation of 
the ancient Grecian manner. 

Put into a glazed earthen vessel four ounces and 
a half of gum arabic, and eight ounces, or half a 
pint (wine measure) of cold spring water ; when 
the gum is dissolved, stir in seven ounces of gum- 
mastic, which has been washed, dried, pickled, and 
beaten fine. Set the earthen vessel containing the 
gum-water and gum-mastic over a slow fire, contin- 
ually stirring and beating them hard with a spoon, 
in order to dissolve the gum-mastic ; when suffici- 
ently boiled, it will no longer appear transparent, 
but will become opaque and stiff, like a paste. As 
soon as this is the case, and the gum-water and 
mastic are quite boiling, without taking them oflfthe 
fire, add five ounces of white wax, broken into small 
pieces, stirring and beating the different ingredients 
together, till the wax is perfectly melted, and has 
boiled. Then take the composition off the fire, as 
boiling it longer than necessary would only harden 
the wax, and prevent its mixing so well afterwards 
with water. When the composition is taken off the 
fire, and in the glazed earthen vessel it should be 



MANAGEMENT OF COLOURS. 307 

beaten hard, and whilst hot (but not boiling) mix 
with it, by degrees, a pint (wine measure) or six- 
teen ounces more of cold spring water : then strain 
the composition, as some dirt will boil out of the 
gum mastic, and put it into bottles ; (he composi- 
tion, if properly made, should be like a cream, and 
the colours when mixed with it as smooth as with oil* 
The method of using it, is to mix with the composi- 
tion, upon an earthen pallet, such colours in pow- 
der, as are used in painting with oil, and such a 
quantity of the composition to be mixed with the 
colours as to render them of the usual consistency 
of oil colours ; then paint with fair water. The co- 
lours, when mixed with the composition, may be 
laid on either thick or thin, as may best suit your 
subject ; on which account, this composition is ve- 
ry advantageous, where any particular transparen- 
cy of colouring is required ; but in most cases it an- 
swers best if the colours be laid on thick, and they 
require the same use of the brush, as if painting 
with body colours, and the same brushes as used in 
oil painting. The colours, if ground dry, when 
mixed with the composition, may be used by put- 
ting a little fair water over them; but it is less 
trouble to put some water when the colours are ob- 
served to be growing dry. In painting with this 
composition, the colours blend without difficulty 
when wet, and even when dry the tints may easily 
be united by means of a brush and a very small 
quantity of fair water. When the painting is finish- 
ed, put some white wax into a glazed earthen vessel 
over a slow fire, and when melted, but not boiling, 
with a hard brush cover the painting with the wax, 
and when cold take a moderately hot iron, such as 
is used for ironing linen, and so cold as not to hiss, if 
touched with any thing wet, and draw it lightly over 
the wax. The painting will appear as if under a 
cloud till the wax is perfectly cold ; as also, what-' 



308 PAINT — PAINTINGS. 

ever the picture is painted upon is quite cold ; but 
if, when so, the painting should not appear suffi- 
cicntij clear, it may be held before the tire, so far 
from it as to melt the wax but slowly ; or the wax 
may be melted by holding a hot poker at such adia- 
tance as to melt it gently, especially such parts of 
the picture as should not appear sufficiently trans- 
parent or brilliant ; for the oftener heat is applied 
to the picture, the greater will be the transparency 
and brilliancy of colouring ; but the contrary effect 
would be produced if too sudden or too great a de- 
gree of heat was applied, or for too long a time, as 
it would draw the wax too much to the surface, and 
might likewise crack the paint« Should the coat of 
wax put over the painting, when finished, appear in 
any part uneven, it may be remedied by drawing a 
moderately hot iron over it again, as before-men- 
tioned, or even by scraping the wax with a knife ; 
and should the wax, by too great or too long an ap- 
plication of heat, form into bubbles at particular 
places, by applying a poker heated, or even a to- 
bacco-pipe made hot, the bubbles would subside ; 
or such defects may be removed by drawing any 
thing hard over the wax, which would close any 
small cavities. 

When the picture is cold, rub it with a fine linen 
cloth. Paintings may be executed in this manner 
upon wood, (having hrst pieces of wood let in be- 
hind, across the grain of the wood, to prevent its 
warping,) canvass, card, or plaster of Paris. The 
plaster of Paris would require no other preparation 
than mixing some fine plaster of Paris, in powder, 
with cold water, the thickness of a cream ; then put 
it on a looking-glass, having first made a frame of 
bees^-wax on the looking-glass, the form and thick- 
ness you would wish the plaster of Paris to be of, 
and when dry take it of}', and there will be a very 
smooth surface to paint upon. Wood and canvass 



MANAGEMENT OF COLOURS. 309 

are best covered with some grey tint, mixed with 
the same composition of gum-arabic, gum-mastic, 
and wax, and of the same sort of colours as before- 
mentioned, before ihe design is begun, in order to 
cover the grain of the wood or the threads of the 
canvass. Paintings may also be done in the same 
manner, with only gum-water and gum-mastic, pre- 
pared the same way as the mastic and wax ; but in- 
stead of putting seven ounces of mastic, and) when 
boiling, adding five ounces of wax, mix twelve oun- 
ces of gum-mastic with the gum- water, prepared as 
mentioned in the first part of this receipt; before 
it is put on the fire, and when sufficiently boiled 
and beaten, and is a little cold, stir in, by degreei, 
twelve ounces, or three quarters of a pint (wine 
measure) of cold spring water, and afterwards strain 
it. It would be equally practicable painting witb 
wax alone, dissolved in gum-water in the following 
manner : Take twelve ounces, or three quarters 
of a pint, wine measure, of cold spring watery'^and 
four ounces and a half of gum-arabic, and put them 
into a glazed earthen vessel, and when the gum is 
dissolved, add eight ounces of white wax. Put the 
earthen vessel, with the gum-water and wax, upon 
a slow fire, and stir them till the wax 13 dissolved, 
and has boiled a few minutes ; then take them ofif 
the fire, and throw them into a basin, as by remain- 
ing in the hot earthen vessel the wax would become 
rather hard ; beat the gum-water and wax till quite 
cold. As there is but a small proportion of water 
in comparison to the quantity of gum and wax, it 
would be necessary, in mixing this composition 
with the colours, to put also some fair water. — 
Should the composition be so made as to occasion 
the ingredients to separate in the bottle, it will be- 
come equally serviceable, if shaken before used, to 
mix with the colours. 



310 I^AINT — PA1NTING&. 

632 To clean oil paintings. 

If smoked, or very dirty, take stale urine, iu 
which a little common salt is disF>olved ; rub them 
over with a woolen cloth dipped in that, till you 
think them quite clean ; then with a sponge wash 
them over with fair water ; then dry them, and 
rub them over with a clean cloth. 

633. To takeoff^ Instantly^ a copy from a print or 

picture. 

Make a water of soap and alum, with which wet 
a clotli or paper ; lay it either on a print or picture, 
and pass it once under the rolling pr^^ss ; then go- 
ing round the other«ide to take it up, you will have 
a very line copy of whatever you shall have laid il 
upon. 

634. To clean and whiten printi or engravings. 

Half fill a glass bottle with a mixture composed 
of qne part of the red oxyd of lead, or minium, and 
three parts of the muriatic acid ; and having closed 
the mouth of the bottle with a glass stopper, put it 
in a cool place not exposed to the hght. A certain 
heat will then be produced, which is an indication 
that new combinations are formed. The oxyd of 
the lead abandons a considerable portion of its oxy- 
gen, which remains combined with the liquor ; the 
latter then acquire a beautiful gold colour, and as- 
sumes the odour of the oxygenated muriatic acid. 
It holds in solution a small portion of thelead, which 
does not, in the least, injure it? effect. It is neces- 
sary that the bottle should be of strong glass, and 
the stopper be well secured, in order to prevent the 
elastic vapour which rises from forcing it out. — 
When you employ the liquor thus prepared, take a 
large pane of glass, and raise a kind of border ol* 
white wax around its edge, about tvvo inches in 
height, and every way equal. By these mean? you 



MANAOEMCNT OF COLOURS. 3ll 

rorm a sort of trough, into which put the prints, and 
pour over them a little fresh urine, or water nnixed 
with a portion of ox gall. At the end of three or 
four days, pour ofT which of these liquids you have 
employed, and supply its place with warm water, 
which ought to be changed evrry three or four 
hours, until it comes off perfectly clear. When 
<he matter, with which the prints are dirtied, is ofa .^ 
resinouscolour, which 8ometimeshappens,dipthem 
in a little alcohol : afterwards suffer all the mois- 
ture to drain ofT, and cover the prints with the li- 
quor of the oxygenated muriatic acid made by mi- 
nium. Place on the Ciiges of the wax another pane 
of glass of the same size as that below, in order 
that you may not be too much incommoded by 
the smell of the acid ; and you will plainly see 
the yellowest prints retiume their original whiteness. 
One. or two hours will be sufficient to produce the 
desired effect. Having then poured off the acid, 
wash ihe prints several times in pure water, and 
dry them in the sun. 

635. To make M ezzotintos. 

Mezzotintos are made in the following manner : 
Take a well polished copper plate, and, beginning 
at the corner, rake or furrow the surface all over, 
with a knife or instrument made for the purpose, 
first one way and (hen the other, till the whole is of 
a regular roughness, without the least smooth part 
to be seen ; in which state, if a paper was to be 
worked from it at tbeicopperplate press, it would 
be all over black. When this is done, the plate is 
rubbed over with charcoal, or black If ad,*and then 
the design is drawn with whit^. chalk ; after which, 
the outlines are traced out, and the plate finished, 
by scraping off the roughness, so as to leave the 
figure on the plate. The outlines and deepest shades 
are not scraped at all, the next shades are scraped 



312 -PAINT — PAINTINGS. 

but little, the next more, and so on, till the shades 
gradually falling off, leave the paper white, in 
which places the plate is neatly burnished* 

636. To judge of transparwit colours for painting m 

Transparent colours should be so clear, when 
mixed with abundance of water, as to communi- 
cate a strong tint, without in the smallest degree 
plastering or concealing the paper, &c« ; hence 
their designation. The best of every kind are 
made from either vegetable or animal substances, 
minerals being extremely difficult to prepare, equal- 
ly so to work with water, and many of them very 
subject to change. 

637. To prepare ivory Itmts for miniature pairUtrs. 

Take the ivory leaTes, or tables on which the 
painting is to be made, and, having cleansed it, rub' 
it over with the juice of garlic. This takes off that 
greasiness which is so much complained of, as pre- 
venting the colours from taking on the ground ; 
and which is not otherwise to be remedied by the 
use of soap, or even gall. It is, however, effectu- 
ally removed by the above simple preparation. 

638. How to stencil^ or multiply patterns for work- 

ing muslins, ^c. 

When a print or drawing is to be copied in this 
wa>, it must be placed upon a sheet of white pa- 
per, and the outline pricked through both, with a 
pin or needle ; the pierced sheet may then be laid 
on a second clean one, and a muslin bag of powder- 
ed charcoal shook or rubbed over it, when, upon 
removing the former, the latter will be found a per- 
fect copy. 

639. To stain paper or parchment yellow. 
Paper may be stained of a beautiful yellow by 



PERFUMES — COSMETICS. 31 o 

the tincture of tumeric, formed by infusing an ounce 
or more of the root, powdered, in a pint of spirit of 
wine. This, by afterwards adding water to it, may. 
be made to give any tint of yellow, from the light- 
est straw to the full colour called French yellow, 
and will be equal in brightness even to the best 
dyed silks. If yellow is wanted of a warmer or 
redder cast, aoattoor dragon's blood, must be add- 
ed to the tincture. 

640. To stain paper or parchment crimson. 

A very fine crimson stain may be given to paper, 
by a tincture of the Indian lake, which may be 
made by infusing the lake some days in spirits of 
wine, and then pouring off the tincture from the 
dregs. 

64 1 • To stain paper or parchment green* 

Paper or parchment may be stained green by the 
solution of verdigris in vinegar, or by the crystals 
of verdigris dissolved in water: also by the solution 
of copper in aquafortis, made by adding filings of 
copper, gradually, to the aquafortis till no ebullition 
ensues ; or the spirit of salt may be substituted for 
the aquafortis. 



CHAPTER XXIX. 

PERFUMES-COSMETICS. 



642. To make an excellent smelling-bottle. 

Take an equal quantity of sal-ammoniac and on- 
slacked lime, pound them separate, then mis and 
put them in a bottle to smell to. Before you put in 

2D 



314 P£&FUM£i» — COSMETICS. 

the above, drop two or three drops of the essenoe* 
of bergamot into the bottle, then cork it close. A 
drop or two of ether-, added to the same, will great- 
ly improve it. 

643. To make, jessamine butter or pomatum* 

Hog^s lard melted, and well washed in fair wa» 
ter, laid an inch thick in a dish, and strewed over 
with jessamine flowers, will imbibe the scent, and 
make a very fragrant pomatum. 

644. To make milk of roses* 

To one pint of rose water, add one ounce of oil 
of almonds, and ten drops of the oil of tartar. 
N. B. Let the oil of tartar be poured in last. 

645. Wash for the skin. 

Four ounces of pot ash, four ounces of rose-wa- 
ter, two ounces of pure brandy, and two ounces of 
lemon juice ^ put all these into two quarts of wa- 
ter, and when you wash, put a table spoonful or 
two of the mixture into the basin of water you in- 
tend washing in. 

646. Method of extracting essences from flowers. 

Procure a quantity of the petals of any flowers 
which have an agreeable fragrance ; card thin lay- 
ers' of cotton, which dip into the finest Florence or 
Lu^xa oil ; sprinkle a small quantity of Jiine salt on 
the flowers, and lay them, a layer of cotton, and a 
laver offlO'^'ers, until an earthen vessel or a wide- 
moutheii glass bottle is full. Tie the top close with 
a bladder, then lay the vessel in a south aspect to 
the heat of the sun, and in fifteen days, when un- 
covered, a fragrant oil may be squeezed away from 
the whole mass, little inffirior (if that flower is 
made use of) to the dear and highly valued Oiio or 
Odour of roses. 



'H -' 



PERFUMES COSMETICS. 31 

647. To make'the quintessence of lavender ^ or other 

aromatic hero. 

Take oflF the btessoms from the stalks, which 
must be cut fresh at smi-rising in warm weather; 
spread the blossoms on a white linen cloth, and lay 
them in the shade for twenty-foiir hours ; after 
which, stamp or bruise them ; then put them, im- 
mersed in warm water, into the still, near a fire, and 
let them infuse for the space of five or six hours, «?o 
closely covere ! that nothing may exhale from it ; 
after which time, take off the covering, and quickly 
put on the helm, and lute it carefully. You must, 
in the beginning, draw over half (he quantity of the 
water you put in. If you take away the receiver, 
you will see the quintessence on the surface of the 
water, which you may easily separate from it. 
Then put the distilled water back again, and distil 
it over again, till there appear no more of the 
quintessence on the water. You may distil this wa- 
ter four or five times over, according as you per- 
ceive the quintessence upon it. 

The best distilling utensils for this work are those 
for the balneum maricBj or sand bath ; meanwhile 
you may, after the common method, distil the in- 
gredients on an open fire. But if you intend to 
make quintessence for waters, you may make use 
of common salt, in order to extract the more quitit- 
essence of any blossom. 

Take four pounds of blossoms of any aromatic 
plant and infuse in it six quarts of water. If you 
use salt to bring your infusion to a ferment, add 
half a pound of common salt to it. 

648. To obtain artmiatic oils from the pellicle^ which 
envelopes the seeds of the laurus sassafras^ and 
laurus benzoin. 

The method of obtaining these oils is, to boil the 
pellicle which surrounds the seeds of the sassafras 



3 ) 6 PERFUMES COSMETICA. 

and benjamin tree in water ; when they float upon 
its surface, from which they may be skimmed with a 
spoon. 

That of the sassafras differs materially from the 
oil obtained from the bark of the root of this tree. 
Its aroma is different, it is much lighter, and it con- 
geals in a higher degree of heat. 

The oil of the benzoin*tree is a delightful aro- 
matic, is very inflammable, and might be used as a 
spice in food, and all those diseases in which the 
aromatic oils are useful. It has been tried with 
success, as an external application, in a case of 
severe chronic rheumatism. One half pound of the 
pellicle of the seeds will yield several ounce mea- 
sures of oil. 

649. To preserve aromatic and other herbs. 

The boxes and drawers in which vegetable mat- 
ters are kept, should not impart to them any smell 
or taste ; and more certainly to avoid this, they 
should be lined with paper. Such as are volatile, 
of a delicate texture, or subject to sufier from in- 
sects, must be kept in well-covered glasses. Fruits 
and oily seeOs, which are apt to become rancid, 
must be kept in a cool and dry, but by no means 
in a warm and moist place. 

650. Lavender water. 

Put two pounds of lavender pips into two quarts 
of water, put them into a cold still, and make a 
slow fire under it; distil it off very slowly, and put 
it into a pot till you have distilled all your water ; 
then clean your still well out, put your lavender 
water into it, and distil it ofi* slowly again ; put it 
into bottles, and cork it well. * 

651. Another. 

Take a pint of the best rectified spirits of wine, 
a shilling's-worth of oil of lavender, sixpenny- worth 



PKKFUMES — ^COSMETICS* 3 1 7 

of essence of ambergris ; mix these altogether, and 
keep it close from the air, then draw it off for use. 
Let it stand till it is fine before you draw it off. 

652. To make rose water. 

Gather roses on a dry day, when they are full 
blown ; pick off the leaves, and to a peck put a 
quart of water, then put them into a cold still, make 
a slow fire under it, the slower you distil it the bet* 
ter it will be ; then bottle it, and in two or three 
days you may cork it. 

653. To make Eau de Luce, and its use. 

Take spirit of wine one ounce, spirit of sal-am- 
moniacum four ounces, oil of amber one scruple, 
white Castile soap ten grains. Digest the soap and 
oil in the spirits of wine, add the ammoniacum, atid 
shake them well together. 

654. To make Hungary water. 

Take a quantity of the flowers of rosemary, put 
them into a glass retort, and pour in as much spirit 
of wine as the flowers can imbibe ; dilute the retort 
well, and lei the flowers macerate for six days, 
then distil it in a sand heat. 

655. To make otto {or odour) of roses. 

Pick th^eaves of roses from all seeds and stalks, 
put them in a clean earthen vessel, glazed within, 
or a clean wooden vessel. Pour spring water on 
them, so as to cover them ; set the vessel in the sun 
in the morning at rising, and leave it in the sun* 
shine till sun- set ; then take them into the house ; 
repeat this for six or seven days, and in three or 
s- four day? there will be a fine yellow oily matter on 
the surface of the water ; and, in two or three days 
more, there will appear a'scum upon the surface, 
which is the otto of roses. This may be taken up 

2 D 2 



3 1 8 PERFUMES — COSH Et'IGS* 

with cotton, and sqaeezed into a phial with the fing- 
er and thumb. 

Remark* — It is suspected that there is some mis- 
take in this receipt, and it has passed to the public 
through very many hands. It was published in the 
Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, 
on the authority of Dr. D. Monro, of London, who 
received it from Major Mackenzie, who again got 
it from an officer of his corps whose name is not 
mentioned. 

The account given by Poller in the Transactions 
of the Bengal Society is very different. It is need- 
less to detail it, for it is exactly the proce^ss of an 
European distiller : cohobation on fresh leaves, and 
exposure to slight cold, to congeal the essential oil, 
which is skimmed offer taken up by cotton, and 
squeezed into phials. 

It is conjectured, that in the manufacture or pro- 
duction of otto which is thought to be profitable in 
the East, and the reverse in Europe, the difference 
cannot be in the price of labour, or similar circum- 
stances, which European skill would more than 
compensate ; but in the fact, that there is a market 
for rose-water in the East, from the quantity used 
in washing hands, sprinkling rooms and garments, 
and similar purposes, to which the demand of the 
European apothecary and confectioner jf compara- 
tively insignificant. It is but a thin film of congeal- 
ed essential oil which a great quantity of rose-water 
will afford ; and after it is taken off, the water ii 
still very good. In India it may be sold ; in Eu- 
rope it is waste ; for to employ it in fresh distilla- 
tions is clearly to watte a manufactured article. 
656. Tamake lip salve. 

Take an .ounce of white wax and ox marrow, 
three ounces of white pomatum, and melt all in a 
bath heat ; add a dram of alkanct, and stir it till it 
acquire a reddish colour. 



PERFUHES — COSMETICS. 3 1 9 

657. To make the celebrated pomade divine. 

According to Dr. Beddoes, this composition is as 
follows, viz. beef marrow, twelve ounces steeped 
in water ten days, and afterwards in rose water 
twenty-four hours ; flowers of benjamin, pounded 
storax, and Florentine orris, of each half an ounce ; 
cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce ; clove and nut- 
meg a quarter of an ounce. The whole to be put 
in an earthen vessel, closely covered down, to keep 
in the fumes, and being suspended in water made 
to boil three hours ; after which, the whole is to 
be strained and put into bottles. 4P 

658. To make soft pomatum. 

Take what quantity of hog's lard you choose to 
make ; cut it down in small pieces, and cover it 
with clear spring water, changing it every twenty- 
four hours for eight days ; when it is quite white, 
put it into a pan, and melt it over a clear fire ; when 
it is all melted, strain it, and put to it some essence 
of lemon to perfume it : so keep it for use. 

659. To make hard pomatum, 

. For hard pomatum, blanch the bog's lard in the 
same manner, as also some mutton suet, and boil 
them together with a little white wax ; scent it with 
essence of lemon or lavender, then make round 
paper cases, and when cold turn down the other 
end, and keep it for use. 

660. Genuine Windsor soap. 

To make this famous soap for washing the hands, 
shaving, &c. nothing more is necessary than to slice 
the best white soap as thin as possible; melt it in a 
stew-pan over a slow fire, scent it well with oil of 
caraway, and then pour it into a frame or mould 
made for that purpose, or a small drawer, adapted 
in size and form to the quantity. When it has stood 
three or four days in a dry situation, cut it into 



3^0 ffiRFUMES — COSMETICS* 

square pieces, and it is ready for use* By this sim- 
ple mode, substituting any more favourite scent for 
that of cataway, all persons may suit themselvei 
with a good perfumed soap at the most trifling ex- 
pense. Shaving boxes may be at once filled with 
the melted soap, instead of a mould. 

66 1 . To prepare aromatic vinegar. 

Take of common vinegar any quantity ; mix a 
sufficient quantity of powdered chalk, or comnnoD 
whitening, with it, to destroy the acidity. Then 
let thM^bite matter subside, and pour off the insi- 
pid, supernatant liquor ; afterwards let the white 
powder be dried, either in the open air, or by a fire. 
When it is dry, pour upon it sulphuric acid (oil of 
vitriol) as long as white acid fumes continue to as- 
cend. Stone vessels are the properest to be used 
on this occasion, as the acid will not act upon them. 
This product is the acetic acid, known in the shops 
by the name of aromatic vinegar. The simplicity 
and cheapness of this process points it out as a ve- 
ry useful and commodious one for purifying prisons, 
hospital ships, and houses, where contagion is pre- 
sumed or suspected, the white acid fumes diffusing 
themselves quickly around. 

If any one is desirous of obtaining the acid in a 
liquid state, the apparatus of Nooth presents a con- 
venience for the purpose. It must of course be 
collected in water. But the muriatic acid is cheap- 
er, and much more expansible. 

662. Essence of soap for shaving or zoashing hands • 

Take a pound and a half of fine white soap in 
thin slices, and add thereto two ounces of salt of 
tartar; mix them well together, and put this mix- 
ture into one quart of spirits of wine, in a bottle 
which will hold double the quantity of the ingredi- 
ents ; lie a bladder over the mouth of the bottle. 



PERFUMES — COSMETICS. 32 1 

and prick a pin through the bladder ; set it to di- 
gest in a gentle heat, and sbake the contents from 
time to time, taking care to take out the pin at such 
times, to allow passage for the air from within ; 
when the soap is dissolved, filter the liquor tbroagh 
paper, to free it from impurities ; then scent it 
with a little bergamot or essence of lemon. It 
will have the appearance of fine oil, and a small 
quantity will lather with water like soap, and is 
much superior in use for washing or shaving. 

663. To increase, the growth ofhair. 

Hartshorn beat small, and mixed with oil, being 
rubbed on the head of persons who have lost their 
hair, will cause it to grow again as at first« 

664. To know whether hair powder is adulterated 

with lime* 

Pot a little crude saI-ammoniaC| in powder, to tb& 
suspected hair powder,.and add a little warm Wjater 
to the mixture, and stir it about; if the powder has 
been adulterated with lime, a strong smell of vola* 
tile alkali will arise from this mixture. 

665. To perfump. hair powder. 

Take one drachm of musk, four ounces of laven- 
der blossoms, one and a half drachm of civet, and 
half a drachm of ambergris ; pound the whole to- 
gether, and pass it through a sieve. Preserve this 
mixture in .well-stopped bottles, and add more or 
less thereof, as agreeable, in your hair powder. 

666. Preparation of the Greek water ^ or the solu- 
tion of Silver^ for the converting red or light co- 
loured hair into a deep brozon. 

Take silver filings, and dissolve them in spirit of 
nitre. The spirit of nitre and the silver, being put 
in a matrass, must be placed, first in a gentle sand- 
heat^ and afterwards removed where the fluid may 



S'22 PERFUMES-^COgJtETlCfl. 

be made to boil for a short time. Being taken out 
of the sand-heat, while yet hot, add as much water 
as may have evaporated during (he boiling ; and, 
when the volution is grown cold, decant off the 
clear fluid from the sediment, if there be any, and 
th€ undissolved part of the silver filingit ; which 
may be dissolved afterwards, by adding more spirit 
of nitre, and repeating the same treatment*. 

Lunar caustic dissolved in WHt(T is precisely the 
same. It is sold by the chemists for about half a 
crown an ounce : the salt is more pure and cheaper 
than it can be made in small quantities. 

J^ote, — The solution of silver, thus obtained, 
with common water, is the Greek water, used for 
turning red or light coloured hair, to brown. Its 
efficacy may be greatly improved, by washing the 
hair before the application of the water, with com- 
mon water, in which some soda has been di^isolved. 
The proportion may be an ounce and a halfofp^jre 
5oda to a pint of the water ; but it requires a /re- 
tjucnt repetition to change the colour of the liair ; 
and care must be taken that a sufficient quantity of 
water be added to dilute liie solution, to pre .out 
its destroying the hair, or, perhaps, excoriating the 
bkin by its causticity. At least double the quantity 
of water fcliOLiId he Iherefort* added. 

The hair must tii^t be cleaned from powder and 
ponntum, with a small- tooth cnmb, and then wash- 
ed with the ?:oda and water, till all grease, poma- 
tum, <Sic. be gU out; then use the Gre* k water in 
the followihg manner, first shaking the bottle : 
Take as much hair as can be conveniently wetted, 
and with a bit of sponge, tied on a little stick dip- 
ped in the Greek water, wet the hair well, un-.l so 
proceed till all is wetted ; let il dry by sufi. air, or 
fire, before you repeat it, which must be don»jfour 
times, and afterwards be washed with the hoda and 
water, all which may easily be done in eight hour?. 



I'KRrUMES — COSMETICS. 226 

A cloth should be put on the shoulders, and do not 
let the Greek water touch the skin, or as little as 
possible. To make yourself expert, first try, ac- 
cording to the above directions, to dye a lock of 
hair that is not growing on the head ; and make the 
Greek water stronger or weaker, according as you 
find it necessary. 

667. A more convenient dye for the hair. 

The defect of the preceding composition is, 
that it stains the skin as well as the hair ; — this in- 
convenience does not attend the following prepa- 
ration : "^ 

Into a glass phial or a porcelain of clean-glazed 
earthen-ware vessel, filled with strong clear lime- 
water, put a little litharge in fine powder. The 
lime-water will dissolve a portion of the litharge io 
the cold, and a greater quantity by the application 
of a boiling heat. When the solution is complete, 

[>our it into a bottle, and keep it stopped. More 
ime-water may be put to the remaining litharge. 
By evaporation in a retort, the solution is concen- 
trated, and yields very small transparent crystals, 
about as soluble in water as lime. 

It blackens the hair and the nails ; but as it does 
not aflTect the colour of the skin, nor of animal oils, 
it may be applied every time that the face is wash- 
ed, or the hair combed. It is decomposed by the 
sulphate of alkalies and sulphurated hydrogen gas. 



^34 RATS. 



CHAPTER XXX. 



t 



RATS. 



668. To destroy rats and other vermiiu 

Sponge, if cut in small pieces, fried or dipped in 
honey, and gi^^n to vermin, distends their intes- 
tines, and effectually destroys them. The addition 
of a little oil of rhodium will tempt them to eat. 

A better method would belft feed them regularly 
two or three weeks in any apartment which they 
infeBt. The hole, by which they enter, being first 
fitted with a sliding door, to which a long string may 
be added ; any apartment may thus be turned into 
a gigantic rat-trap. 

669. Another method of destroying rats. • 

Lay bird- lime in their haunts, for though they arc 
nasty enough in other respects, yet being very cu- 
rious of their fur, if it is but daubed with this stuff, 
it is so troublesome to them that they will even 
scratch their skins from off their own back to get it 
off, and will never abide in the place where they 
have suffered in this manner. 

670. To dtstroy rats or mice. 

Mix flour of malt, with some butter ; add thereto 
a drop or two of oil of aniseeds; make it up into 
balls, and bait your traps therewith. If you have 
thousands, by this means you may take them all. 

671. ^ mouse trap, by which forty or fifty mice may 

be caxAght in a night. 

Take a plain four-square trencher, and pot into 
the two contrary ends of it a large pin, or piece of 
thick knitting needle; then take two sticks about a 



RATS. 326 

yard long, and lay them on your dresser, with a 
notch cut at each end of your sticks, placing the 
two pins, stuck on the corner of !he trencher, on the 
notches of the two sticks, go that one corner of your 
trencher may lie about an inch upon your dresser or 
place that the nnice come to ; then let the corner 
that lies opposite to this be baited with some butter 
and oatmeal, plastered fast on, and when the mice 
run off the drc-ser to the butter, it will tip them 
into a veai^el full of water, which you must place 
under the trencher, in which they will be drowned. 
That your trencher may not tip over, with a little 
sealing-wax and a thread, seal the string to the dres- 
ser and trencher, and it will remain in good order 
for weeks or months. 

672. New, simple, and effectual method of destroy- 

ing rats* 

A few years ago, the corn-mill at Glossop was 
very much infested with rats. A quantity of barley, 
which lay on the chamber floor, was hourly visited 
by some of them. The miller one day going to 
drive them away, as usual, happened to catch one 
of them under his hat, which he killed ; he then 
singed all the hair off its body, &c. until its skin, 
tail, and legs became stiffby the operation. In this 
condition be set it upon its feet by the side of a 
heap of barley, where it stood, with pricked-up 
ears and tail, for some time : after this, no rat dar- 
ed to come near it ; and in a short space of time the 
mill was cleared of those depredators, and has con- 
tinued so ever since. 

673. Dr, Taylor^s cheap and efficacious method of 

destroying rats. 

[Communicated to the Manchester Agricultural So- 
ciety.] 
In or near the pjace frequented by these vermini 

2E 



3'26 KATS. 

place on a slate or tile one or two table-spoonfuls of 
dry oatmeal. Lay it thin, and press it fiat, more ea- 
sily to ascertain what is taken away. As the rats, 
if not interrupted, will come regularly there to feed, 
continue to supply them with ffesh oatmeal for two 
or three days ; and then, well mixing, in about six 
table-spoonfuls of dry oatmeal, three drops only of 
oil of aniseeJs, feed them with this for two or three 
days more. Afterward, for one day, give them only 
half the quantity of this scented oatmeal \|hich they 
have before eaten ; and next day, place the /ollow- 
ing mixture : to four ounces of dry oatmeal, scented 
with six drops of oil of aniseeds, and half an ounce 
of carbonated barytes previously pounded very 
fine in a mortar, and sifted through a little fine 
muslin or cambric. Mix these intimately with the 
scented oatmeal ; and, laying it on the tile or slate, 
allow the rats to eat it, without the smallest inter- 
ruption, for twenty-four hours. A few hours after 
eating any of it, they will frequently be seen run- 
ning about, as if drunk, or paralytic ; but they gene- 
rally, at last, retire to their haunts, and die. As rats 
gre extremely sagacious, it may be proper, when 
they have during the twenty-four hours, eaten only 
a small portion, to leave the remainder of the mix- 
ture twenty-four hours longer ; after which it will be 
best to burn what is left, a fresh mixture being pre- 
pared at so trifliug an expense when wanted. The 
doors of the place where this mixture it* exposed to 
the rats should be kept closed ; as wnll to prevent 
their being disturbed, as to obviate the possibility 
of accidents to children or domestic animals ; for, 
though it be not so extremely dangerous as the pre- 
parations commonly employed for killing rats, and 
is even used in medicine, it proves fatal, if impro- 
perly taken, unless timely counteracted by emetics. 
The oil of aniseeds, though it renders the mixture 
disagreeable to dogs, and many other animals, is al- 



RATS. 327 

luring, when used in small quantities, to rate. The 
carbonated baryte^, Dr. Taylor adds, njay be pro- 
cured in large quantities at the lead mines belong 
ing to Sir Frank Standish, Bart, at Anglezark, neai 
Cborley, in Lancashire : the proper sort is tasteless, 
semi-transparent, and effervesces with acids ; it is 
moderately hard, and striated. It is called aerated 
barytes — terra ponderosa aerata — and, sometimes, 
by the miners, ponderous spar. It may be purchas-' 
ed at a cheap rate from Messrs. Brown and Mawe, 
in Tavistock street, or other collectors of minerals. 

674. To prevent the burrowing of Rats iti fiouses. 

Rats may be effectually prevented from burrow- 
ing under the foundation of bouses^ by making an 
otiset of stone or brick, about, two feet in breadth, 
and eighteen inches below the surface ; and by 
carrying up a perpendicular wall from the edge of 
this offset, to within a few inches of the ground. 
The adoption of the same plan, inside will prevent 
the burrowing of these animals in cellars : for rats 
always burrow close to a wall ; and finding their per- 
pendicular course impeded, they take a horizontal 
direction, as far as the offset continues, when they 
are again stopped by the outside wall. Thus baf- 
fled, they ascend and go off. 

Those persons who have suffered in their grana- 
ries, ice-houses, and in the cellars of their dwelling- 
houses, by the depredations of rats, will probably 
deem this one of the most valuable articles of the 
present work. 



328 SPOTS OR STAINS. 

CHAPTER XXXI. 

SPOTS OR STAINS. 



^75. To make portable balls for removing spots from 

clothes in general. 

Take fuller's earth, perfectly dried, so that it 
crumbles into a powder ; moisten it with (he clear 
juice of lemons, and add a small quantity of pure 
pearl ab*hes ; then work and knead the whole care- 
fully together, till it acquires the consistence of a 
thick elastic paste ; form it into convenient small 
balls, and expose them to the heat of the sun, in 
which they ought to be completely dried. In this 
state they are tit for use in the manner following :- 
First, moisten the spot on your clothes with water, 
then rub it with the ball just described, and suffer 
it again to dry in the sun : after having washed the 
spot with pure water, till it will entirely disappear. 

076. The fumes of brimstone useful in removing 
spots or stains in Linen^ ^c. 

If a red rose be held in the fumes of a brimstone- 
match, the colour will soon begin to change, and, 
at length, the flower will become white. By the 
same process, fruit stains or iron moulds may be re- 
moved from linen or cotton cloths, if the spots be 
previously moistened with water. With iron moulds, 
weak muriatic acid is preferable, assisted by heat ; 
as by laying the cloth on a tea-pot or kettle, filled 
with boiling water. 

677. To remove spots of grease from paper. 

Take an equal quantity of roach-alum, burnt, and 
flour of brimstone, finely powdered t. ^ethcr ; wci 



SPOTS OR STAINS. 3^9 

the paper a little, and put a small quantity of the 
powder on the place, rut^bing it gently with your 
finger, and the spot will disappear. 

678. Substitute for salt of sorrel^ for removing ink 

spots andiron moulds* 

Take six parts of crystals of tartar in powder, 
three parts of alum, likewise pulverized, and use ^ 
them in the same manner as salt of sorrel. 

679. Expeditious method of taking out stains from 

scarlet, or velvet of any other colour. 

Take soap wort, bruise it, strain out it^ juices, 
and add to it a small quantity of black soap. Wash 
the stain with this liquor, suffering it to dry between 
whiles, and by this method the spots will in a day 
or two entirely disappear. 

680. To take spots effectually out of silk, linen or 

woolen* 

Spirits of turpentine, twelve drops, and the same 
quantity of spirits of wine ; grind these with an 
ounce of pipe-maker's clay, and rub the spots 
therewith. You are to wet the composition when 
you do either silk, linen, or woolen with it ; let it 
remain till dry, then rub it ofi*, and the spot or spots 
will disappear. 

True spirits of salt diluted with water, will re- 
move iron moulds from linen ; and sal-ammoniac, 
with lime, will take out the stains of wine. 

j681. To take the stains of grease from woolen or 

silk. 

Threevounces of spirits of wine, three ounces of 
French chalk, powdered, and five ounces of .pipe- 
clay. Mix the above ingredients, and make them 
in rolls about the length of a finger, and you will find 
a never-failing remedy for removing grease from 
woolen or silken goods. 

2E 2 



330 SPOTS OR STAINS. 

N. B. It is to be applied by rubbing on the spot 
either dry or wet, and afterwards brushing the 
place. 

682. Easy and safe method of discharging grease 

spots from woolen clothes* 

Fuller^s earth, or tobacco pipe clay, being put 
wet on an oil spot absorbs the oil as the water eva- 
porates, and leaves the vegetable or animal fibres of 
cloth clean, on being beaten or brushed out. When 
the spot is occasioned by tallow or wax, it is neces- 
sary to heat the pait cautiously by an iron or the 
fire, while the cloth is drying. In some kinds of 
goods, blotting paper, bran, or raw starch, may be 
used with advantage. 

683. To take out spots of ink. 

As soon as the accident happens, wet the place 
with juice of sorrel or lemon, or with vinegar, and 
the best hard white soap. 

684. To take iron-moulds out of linen* 

Hold the iron-mould on the cover of a tankard 
of boiling water, and rub on the spot a little juice 
of sorrel and a little salt, and when the cloth hae 
thoroughly imbibed the juice, wash it in lee. 

685. To take out spots on silk. 

Rub the spots with spirit of turpentine ; this spi- 
rit exhaling, carries otifwith it the oil that causes 
the spot. 

686. To take wax out of velvet of all colours^ ex- 

cept crimson. 

Take a crumby wheaten loaf, cut it in two, toast 
it before the fire, and, while very hot, apply it to 
the part spotted with wax. Then apply another 
piece of toasted bread hot as before, and contmue 
this application till the wax is entirely taken out. 



SPOTS OR STAINS* 331 

687. Process for preparing nitrous acid for extract- 

ing stains^ ^cfrom tanned leather. 

Take half a pint of water, a quarter of a pint of 
nitrous acid, and half an ounce of salts of lemon. 
Put the water in a bottle, and add the nitrous acid to 
it, and afterwards the salts of lemon ; when the heat 
which is caused by this mixture has subsided, add 
half a pint of skimmed milk ; shake them occa- 
sionally for three or four days, and the liquor will 
be fit for use. 

The application. — With a brush and soft water 
clean the surface of the leather from all grease, 
dirt, &c. Next scrape on it a little Bath brick, or 
white free sand ; add a little of the above liquor, 
and with a brush scour it well, repeating this pro* 
cess till the whole has been gone over ; then, with 
a clean sponge and water, wash off what remains 
of the brick : leave the leather to dry gradually, 
and it will be of a light new colour. If it is wished 
to be darker, brush it with a hard brush a little be- 
fore it is dry, and it will be of a rich brown tinge. 

688. To extract grease spots from paper . 

Scrape finely some pipe-clay, the quantity of 
which may be easily determined on making the ex- 
periment : lay thereon the sheet or leaf, and cover 
the spot in like manner with the clay ; cover the 
whole with a sheet of paper; then apply, for a few 
seconds, a heated ironing box, or any substitute 
adopted by laundresses. On using Indian rubber 
to remove the dust taken up by the grease, the 
paper will be found restored to its original degree 
of whiteness and opacity. 

689. To remove spots of grease from books and 

Prints, 

After having gently warmed the paper stained 
with grease, wax, oil or any fat body whatever^ 



332 SPOTS OR STAINS. 

take out as much as possible of it, by means of 
blotting paper. Then dip a small brush in the es- 
sential oil of well rectified spirit of turpentine, 
heated almost to an ebullition (for when cold it acts 
only very weakly,) and draw it gently over both 
sides of the paper, which must be carefully kept 
warm. This operation must be repeated as many 
times as the quantity of the fat body imbibed by the 
paper, or the thickness of the paper, may render 
necessary. When the greasy substance is entirely 
removed, recourse may be had to the following 
method to restore the paper to its former white- 
ness, which is not completely restored by the first 
process. Dip another brush in highly rectified spi- 
rit of wine, and draw it, in like manner, over the 
place which was stained, and particularly round the 
edges, to remove the border, that would still pre- 
sent a stain. By employing these means, with 
proper caution, the spot will totally disappear ; the 
paper will resume ito original whiteness ; and if the 
process has been employed on a part written on 
with common ink, or printed with printer^s ink, it 
will experience no alteration. 

690. To take spots out of cloths, stuffs, silk, cotton, 

and linen. 

Take two quarts of spring water, put in it a little 
fine white pot ash, about the quantity of a walnut, 
and a lemon cut in slices ; mix these well together, 
and let it stand for twenty-four hours in the sun ; 
then strain it oiT, and put the clear liquid up for 
use. This water takes out all spots, whethf»r pitch, 
grease, or oil, as well in hats, as cloths and stulfs, 
silk or cotton, and linen. As soon as the spot is 
taken out, wash the place with fair water; forcloths 
of a deep colour, add to a spoonful of the mixture 
as much fair water as to weaken it. 

Grease spots in cloth may be removed by using 



J* SPOTS OR STAINS, 333 

soap and water with a tooth or nail brush, and af- 
terwards wiping off the lather with the wet corner 
of a towel. Essence of lemon, W pure spirit of 
turpentine, wiJl remove pitch from cloth, &c» 

In woolen cloth, an easier method is to scrape 
off the hard tallow with the edge of a tea-spoon, 
then rub the part briskly with a clean woolen rag, 
shifting the rag as the part becomes dirty ; or, place 
some blotting paper on the spot, press it with a hot 
iron, occasionally moving the paper. 

691. Remedy against the effects of ink when just 

spilled. 

If the ink be spilled on a ruffle, or apron, &c. 
while you have it on, let one hold the spotted part 
between his two hands over a basin and rub it, 
while another pours water gradually from a decan- 
ter upon it, and let a whole pitcher full be used if 
necessary ; or if a ruffle, apron, &c. be at liberty, 
let it be dipped into a basin filled with water, and 
there squeezed and dipped in again, taking care to 
change the water in abundance every two or three 
squeezes. If the ink be spilled on a green table 
carpet, it may immediately be taken out with a tea- 
spoon so entirely, that scarcely any water at all 
shall be wanted afterwards, provided it was only 
that instant spilled, as the down of the cloth pre- 
vents the immediate soaking in of the ink, or of any 
other liquor [except oil ;) but if it have lain some 
time, be the time ever so long, pro.vided the place 
be still wet, by pouring on it fresh clean water by 
little and little at a time, and gathering it up again 
each time with a spoon, pressing hard to squeeze it 
out of the cloth into the spoon, you will at last bring 
it to its natural colour, as if no such accident had 
happened. 



334 TIMBER. 

CHAPTER XXXII. 

TIMBER. 



692. To promote thn growth of forest trees. 

It is highly to be censured, the neglect of per- 
mitting ivy twines, which grow to forest trees, to 
remain attached to them. Their roots entering 
into the bark rob the trees of much of their uour- 
ishment ; they in a manner strangle their supporter?, 
by impeding the circulation of their juices, and in 
time destroy the trees. They should be torn up by 
the roots, for, if any part of them adhere to the tree, 
they will spread, as they obtain nourishment by 
their adhering roots. 

693. White-washing the trunks of trees recommended. 

Being one day upon a visit (observes Mr. North- 
more, who recommends this experiment! at my 
friend's near Yarmouth, in the Isle of Wigh:, I re- 
marked that several of the trunks of trees in his 
orchard had been covered with whitewash ; upon 
enquiring the reason he replied, that he had done 
it with a view to keep off the hares, and other ani- 
mals, and that it was attended not only with that 
good effect, but by several others, for it made the 
rind smooth and compact, by closing up the cracks : 
it entirely destroyed the moss ; and as the rains 
washed off the lime, it manured the roots. These 
several advantages derived from so simple a prac- 
tice deserve to be more gcnenilly known. The 
white-wash is made in the usual tnanncr, with lime, 
and may be applied twice, oroftener, if necessary. 



TIMBER* 335 

694, Ta cure wounds in trees. 

Wounds in trees are best cured by covering them 
with a coat of common lead paint without turpen- 
tine (for turpentine is poison to vegetation) in the 
sun, on a fine dry day. 

695. Mr. Forsyth?s method of curing injuries and 
defects in fruit and forest trees ^published by com- 
mand of his present majesty. 

Mr. Fofiyth directs, in his Treatise on the man- 
agement and culture of fruit trees, &c. that all 
the decayed, hollow, loose, rotten, injured, diseas- 
ed, and dead parts, should be entirely cut away, till 
the knife extend to the sound or solid wood, so as 
to leave the surface perfectly smooth. The com- 
position which he has invented, and directed to be 
then applied, is thus prepared : To twenty- five gal- 
lons of human urine, and a peck of lime, add a suf- 
ficient quantity of fresh cow* dung to bring it to the 
consistency of paint. This composition should 
then be laid on with a painter's brush, to the thick- 
ness of about an eighth of an inch, and the edges 
finished off as thin as possible. In the mean time, 
a tin box, the top of which is perforated with holes, 
should be filled with a mixture of five parts of dry 
pulverized wood ashes, and one part bone ashes 
also reduced to powder ; fromVbich it is to be scat- 
tered or dredged over the surface of the composi- 
tion : and, when it has been suffered to absorb half 
an hour, an additional portion of the powder is to 
be gently applied with the hand till the plaster ac^ 
quire a smooth and e^en surface. As the edges 
of the plastered wounds grow up, care must be taken 
to prevent the new wood from coming in contact 
with that which is decayed : and, for this purpose, 
it will be proper to cut out the latter, in proportion 
as the growth of the former advances ; a hollow 
space being left between the two, that the new wood 



336 TIMBER. 

may have sufficrent space to extend and fill up the 
cavity, thus forming, as it were, a new treeii In 
consequence of this pi'ocess, o]d and decayed pear- 
trees, in the second summer after its being thus ap- 
phed, are said to have produced fruit of the. best 
quality and finest flavour ; and, in the course of four 
or five years, to have even yielded such abundant 
crops, as young and healthy trees could not have 
borne in twenty years. By the same method, too, 
large and aged elm trees, all the parts of which 
were broken, having only a very small portion of 
bark left on the trunk, shot forth sttms from their 
tops to the height of more than thirty feet, within 
sixor seven years after the composition had been 
applied. It appears, therefore, that both forest 
and fruit trees, however aged or decayed, may be 
preserved, and even renovated ; while the latter, in 
particular, are rendered more fruitful than at any 
earlier period of their growth. The health and 
ve^et.ition of trees in general, Mr. Forsyth re- 
marks, may be greatly promoted, by scraping thorn, 
by cutting away the cankered parts, and by washing 
their stems annually in February or March : and he 
recommends fresh soap suds, and the composition 
to be applied to the stems and branches of fruit, 
forest, or timber trees of any kind, in the same 
manner as the ceilings of rooms are white-washed ; 
which, he asserts, will not only destroy the eggs of 
insects that would be hatched during the spring ai:d 
summer, but also prevent the growth of moss. If 
therefore, he adds, the same operation be repeated 
in autumn, after the fall of the leaf, it will kill the 
eggs of those numerous insects which would other- 
wise be hatched during that season and the ensuing 
winter. So that this process, in fact, not only con- 
tributes to the nourishment of the tree, but actually 
preserves its bark in a fine healthful state. 



TIMBER. 337 

696. To preserve wood in damp situations* 

Two coats of the following preparation are to be 
tipplied, after which the wood is subject to no dete- 
rioration whatever from bumiditj. Twelve pounds 
of resin are to be beaten in a mortar, to which three 
pounds of sulphur and twelve pints of whale oil are 
to be added. This mixture is to be melted over 
the tire, and stirred during the operation. Ochre 
reduced to an impalpable powder, by triturating it 
with oil, may then be combined in the proportion 
necessary to give either a lighter or a darker colour 
to the material. The Grst coat should be put on 
lightly, having been previously heated ; the second 
may be applied in two or three days, and a third 
after an equal interval, if from the peculiar damp- 
ness of the situation it should be judged expedient. 

Rerrhark.-^li is highly probable (though the ex- 
periment has not been tried) that this composition 
would be improved by adding a small portion of the 
liquid leather, which is now commonly sold in Lon- 
don, being the refuse of the purification offish oil by 
tar. 

Where the work will bear the expense, and ij 
not exposed to a heat of more than 1 30 degrees of 
Fahrenheit, the best composition is the following : 
Equal parts of turpentine (the fluid resin, not the 
essential oil) bees^-wax, black resin and maltha, or 
coal tar, boiled together till they cease to rise, that 
is, till the white cream or scum proceeding from the 
separation of the essential oij disappears. Apply 
it warm with a turpentine brush — two or three coats 
to cover the cracks or pores left by the brush. This 
lute was first proposed by Chaptal, without the ad- 
dition of the coal tar, which is a great improvement. 
A piece of wood covered with three coats of it, and 
immersed for two years in water, was found to be 
quite dry on cutting ofifthe lute. 

2F 



338 TIMBER. 

I'ake care not lo allow water to fall into the pan, 
as it woiild make the hot nmaterials ex(xlode« If the 
composition catch fire, put on the cover directly,- 
and remove the pan for an instant from the fire. 

697. Cause and prevention of the dry rot. 

The cause of the dry rot in wood is moisture ; 
and to prevent well-dried timber from decaying 
above or under ground, is by charring it weJI. 

698. Curt for the dry rot in timber^ so as to make 

it indestructible by water. 

Melt twelve ounces of rosin in an iron pot ; add 
three gallons of train oil, and three or four rolls of 
brimstone ; and when the brimstone and rosin are 
melted and become thin, add as much Spanish 
brown, or red and yellow ochre, or any other col- 
our required, first ground fine with the same oil, as 
will give the whole a shade of the depth preferred ; 
then lay it on with a brush as hot and as thin as pos- 
sible ; some time after the first coat is dried, give 
it a second. This preparation will preserve planks 
for ages, and keep the weather from driving through 
brick work. 

699. Method of trying the goodness of timber for 
ship buildings used in the arsenal at Vienna. 

One person applies his ear to the centre of one 
end of the trunk, while another, with a key, hits the 
other end with a gentle stroke. If the tree be sound 
and good, the stroke will be distinctly heard at the 
other end, though the tree should be a hundred 
feet or more in length. 

700. To season and render green timber immediately 

ft for use. 

After the timber has been cut down from the 

stock, take offimmediately both the outer bark and 

also the inner rind, clean to the wood ; cut it up to 

the diflferent purposes for which it may be wanted. 



TIMBER. 339 

whether scantlings for roofings, joists, planks, deals, 
or the like. After preparing thenri for their proper 
use, st^ep them in* lime water a few days, or pay 
them over with a little of the hme, along' with the 
water. The hotter it is used after the lime is slack- 
ed, so much the better. Lime water is made by 
slacking the lime shells in water. This will an- 
swer equally well for round trees. The author of 
this method says, he has been, for a great number 
of years past, used to take down and repair both 
ancient and modern buildings, in which a good 
deal of Scots fir had been used, but he never found 
one inch either rotten or worm-eaten, where it was 
in the least connected with lime, and kept dry ; on 
the contrary, he found it more hard and firm than 
when first used. 

*^* Some observations and recipes, applicable to 
Trees in general, may also be found in Chap. xxv. 
Sect. V. JVo5. 508, 509, 511, 512,514,516, 517. 
pp. 260—263. 



Travellers, (Hints to') see Chap. xxvi. Kos\ 
547,648.;?;>. 279, 280. 



340 VARNISHES. 



CHAPTER XXXin, 

VARNISHES. 



J[T he following original and excellent Ohservationtt 
on Varnishes V3 ere first published by Tho. Cooper, 
Esq. of Northumberland^ {Xorlh jimericayin the 
American edition of Dr. WilUMs '* Domestic 
Encyclopedia.^^'] 



70 !• Observations on varnishes. 

The liquids in which the substances proper for 
making varnishes are generally dissolved are lin* 
seed, nut oil, sun-flower oil, oil of turpentine, and 
spirit of wine. Hence the substances themselves 
are all of the class of rosins. Nut oil is not often 
used, though being of a clearer colour than linseed 
oil, it might sometimes deserve the preference. 
The other essential oils, as rosemary, bergannotte, 
(Sic. are too dear, an4 do not dry. 

The substances commonly employed, are such as 
form a transparent solution with the solvents above 
mcntiojted, and are not liable to be affected by 
moisture of any kind: since none of the gums, or 
gum-resin, are fit for the purpose. 

The resins usually employed are : copal, amber, 
mastic, sandarac, lac (both stick lac and seed lac) 
pine turpentine from Chios or Venice, common 
white rosin, dragon^s blood, gum-elemi, asphaltum, 
or Jew's-pitch, and common pitch. To which may 
be added, elastic gum, or caoutchoc, though thiF 
is only used at present for balloons. 



VARNISJ^BS. 341 

Oil of (tirpentine deadens the colour of paints : 
the varnishes of amber and copal brighten them. 

Linseed oil is procured by grinding linseed in 
mills for that purpose. It is of a brownish colour. 
Before it can be used it must be made drying. The 
reason that oi) will not dry without preparation is 
either that it contains a quantity of uncombined 
mucilaginous substance, or a quantity of uncom- 
bined acid, or both* I have not seen this any where 
ascertained ; Mr. Watt told me it was acid. 

The common method of making drying oil, is to 
put about half an ounce of litharge to each quart of 
the oil ; boil it not hastily or violently, but with a 
moderate and equal fire for about two hours, scum- 
ming it. If it be boiled too hard it wiH be burnt, 
and become brown. Let this rest til) all sediment 
has perfectly subsided, then separate the clean oil, 
which will grow the clearer and the better for keep- 
ing. When it is made perfectly drying, it will have 
a scum formed at the top. Perhaps white lead 
would be better to use than litharge. 

Poppy oil, is from the seeds of the common pop* 

J^ut oil, is the oil expressed in the same manner 
from walnut. It is made drying in the same man- 
ner as linseed oil ; and being clearer, is preferable 
for colourless vaiftishes. 

To make boiled linseed oil colourless, take 
three or four gallons of oil : add to it about two 
quarts of fine clear sand, and three or four gallons 
of boiling water ; agitiate it for half an hour, sepa- 
rate the oil, and repeat the process with fresh water. 

Oil of turpentine is produced by the distillation 
of common turpentine : the residuum is rosin. 

Copal, is a resin produced from certain trees in 
New Spain. The best is the clearest, and such as 
will glaze a hot tobacco-pipe without blistering. 

Amber (Karabe, succinum) is a substance, but 

2 F2 



342 VARNISHES. 

whether vegetable or animal is not quite determio' 
ed, found upon the sea-shores of Polish Prussia. It 
has been by some thought a resin from trees ; by 
others, a fossil ; by others, the indurated excrement 
of the whale. 

Mastic, is a resin produced from a small tree call- 
ed the Lcntisk, growing in the isle of Chio. -The 
bark is cut, and the juice exudes. 

Sandarac, is a resin produced in the same way 
from a species of juniper, growing on the coast of 
Africa. 

Lac, gum-lac, seed-lac, is produced on certain 
trees of the fig kind, in the mountainous parts of the 
East fndies, by the perforation of insects in the 
bark. It has been by some thought a kind of wax 
produced by the insects themselves. 

Turpentine, is collected in the Greek isles, by 
making an incision in the fir-trees: the juice is tur- 
pontine. Venice [Chian] turpentine is brought 
over in large earthen jars. 

Common rosin, the residuum of turpentine after 
distilling it to obtain the essential oil. 

Dragon'* $' bloody a resin of a red colour produced 
from certain trees in the East Indies and Madeira, 
and the Canary Islands. 

Gum-elemi, a resin, the produce of trees growing 
in the East Indies and Brazil. * 

Asphallum, Jew's-pitch. This is a native bitu- 
men found in various parts of the world, of a black- 
ish-brown colour- 
Common ^i^cA, is the residuum after the distilla- 
tion of tar. 

Elastic gum, a substance from the East Indies 
and the Brazils, having all the properties of inspis- 
sated bird-lime, or of the juice of the Misletoe. 

It dissolves in petroleum and oil of turpentine. 



VARNISHES. 3 43 

702. Oeneral observations on making varnishes of 

all kinds. 

Ist. As the substances that form varnishes are 
extremely inflammable, they ought only to be made 
in a brick or stone room with a floor of the same 
materials* They should be cautiously kept from a 
fire that flames ; nor should a lighted candle come 
near them ; for the vapour, particularly of oil of 
turpentine and spirit of wine, will catch fire at some 
distance, by means of flame of any kind* The 
operator should always have by him a woolen cloth 
or ^rnall blanket in a tub of water to cover the ves- 
sel containing the ingredients in case of their tak- 
ing fire. They ca,n only be put out by thus excl«id- 
ing the air. 

2d. The substances should be freed, as much as 
possible, from impurities of every kind, particularly 
sandarac, and preserved from dust. The utmost 
cleanliness, in and about the vessels, is essentially 
necessary to good colour and transparency. 

3d. The substances, after being broken into pie- 
ces, freed from impurities and heterogeneous sub- 
stances, should be put by themselves in the melting 
pot. If reduced to powder or very small pieces, 
they stick to the sides of the pot, and burn and 
hurt the colour. 

4th. All the resins should be kept in vessels well 
stopt and closed from dust. So of theoils and spirit. 

5th. When the varnish is made, it should be left 
some time for the dregs to settle: then be poured 
off clear, and then be filtered through silk or lawn. 

6th. For goods that are not to be exposed to the 
heat of the sun, the spirit varnishes will answer : 
but as sandarac and mastic will melt in the sun, the 
oil varnishes of copal and amber are the most pro- 
per. 

7th. Glaze(f earthen vessels are betterthan iron: 
copper is soluble in oil, and therefore is not to be 



344 VARNISHES. 

used« The most scrupulous cleanliness is necessa- 
ry to success. 

703. Of varnishes with spirit of wine. 

Copal spirit, varnish. This receipt is kept a great 
secret. Mr. Henry, of Manchester, in England, and 
the Sieur Watin, at Paris, make it. Henry's is ra- 
ther coloured. 

I have made it, by dissolving copal in a warm 
place, in any of the following essential oils : berga- 
motte, lavender, orange, lemon, rosemary, of which 
the last is the cheapest ; dilute it with twice the 
quantity of highly rectified spirit of wine. If the 
oil of rosemary is much adulterated with oil of tur- 
pentine, it will not succeed. Oil of turpentine pre- 
cipitates the copal ; but by twelve hours digestion 
(in a small retort with a lamp heat) of oil of turpen- 
tine on copal, I succeeded in making a perfectly 
colourless varnish. 

704. Colourless spirit varnish of mastic and sa?i' 

darac. 

To one quart of rectified spirit add two ounces of 
mastic, in drops, and six ounces of sandarac ; when 
well dissolved, add four ounces of pure Venice tur- 
pentine. 

If it is wanted to be harder, substitute two ounces 
of gum-lac, half an ounce ofgum-elemi, and two 
ounces of clear white rosin instead of the mastic 
and turpentine. But the colour will not be so good. 
The first is proper for toilet-boxes, &c. the last for 
cane, chairs, furniture, &c. which are much hand- 
led. 

705. Varnish for violitis and musical instruments. 

Spirit of wine one quart, sandarac four ounces, 
f um-lacca and mastic, each two ounces, gum elemi 
one ounce ; when all is melted, add* two ounces of 
turpentine. 



VARNISHES. 345 

706. Gold' colour varnish. 

Bruise separately four ounces of lacca, as niiuch 
gamboge, as muchdragon^s blood, a? muchannatto, 
and one ounce of saSron. Put each of these into 
a quart of spirit of wine. Digest them in the sun 
or in a moderate heat for a fortnight, mix them with 
clear varnish of sandarac according to the tint you 
want. Four ounces of aloes dissolved in a quart of 
spirit will also be a good addition to the above in- 
gredients, and give you more command over the 
tint you may require. 

707. General observations on spirit varnishes. 

1. A water-bath is the proper heat for spirit 
varnishes. A sand-hath is liable to be too hot, and 
embers or coals dangerous. 

When the water once boils, keep it hoiling till 
the substances are dissolved. This you will find by 
stirring it with a glass, or white wood spatula, or 
a tobacco-pipe. By dissolving salt in the water, 
you may increase the heat. When your substan- 
ces are not quite dissolved, never put them on the 
fire a second time to finish the solution. 

Never fill the vessels but about three parts full. 

2. Gum-elemi gives consistence to the varnish, 
hut should be used in small proportions. Brillian- 
cy is given by the Venice and Chio turpentine. 

3. The turpentine should always ho melted se- 
parately, when the substances are dissolved : it 
should be melted in a snriall quantity of spirit of 
wine, and then added. After the turpentine is add- 
ed, give the water-bath six or eight boils, and then 
take it off, and strain it through a very fine sieveor 
fine linen. It will be still clearer by standing and 
repose. 

4. The general proportion of sandarac is about 
ten or twelve ounces to a quart of spirit, and so of 
the other gums : if others are substituted, the sand< 



346 VARM3HES. 

arac must be proportionablj diminished. The spi- 
ritd of wine should fire gun-powder. 

5. If you want red or black varnishes, dragonV 
blood and vermilion, Jew^s pitch and lamp-black, 
will answer your purpose. 

6. Seed-lac makes harder varnish than shell-lac ; 
about ten ounces to the quart is enough. 

708. Oil'Varnishes. — General observations on oil- 

varnishes. 

] • Copal and amber are the two principal sub-* 
stances for oil varnishes ; as each of them possesses 
the property of making a hard and transparent 
varnish, they need not be mixed ; but copal should 
be reserved for the lighter coloured varnishes. 
Amber, however, is tougher than copal, and a little 
of it certainly improves copal varnish, if the tinge 
of colour is no objection. 

2. It requires a stronger fire to dissolve copal and 
amber when mixed with oil, than alone ; a strong 
heat hurts the colour. Melt therefore these resins 
by themselves, broken into small pieces; employ 
no more heat than is necessary to melt them ; when 
melted, add'to them the hot linseed oil by degrees, 
stirring as you pour it in ; then give a few boilings 
to incorporate the whole. 

3. If you have more than one resin to add, rnelt 
the hardest first, otherwise the most fusible will 
burn before the other is melted. 

4. A sand-bath, or bright coals that do not 
flame, is the proper heat for oil-varnislies ; btit 
give no more heat than is barely necessary to melt 
them. 

5. The vessels should be glazed earthenware 
with a cover ; and new ones used, for copal varntch 
especially, every time. 

6. When the oil and the resin are incorporated 
and well stirred together, add your hot oil of tur- 



VARNISHES. 347 

pentine ; this should be about double the quantity 
of the oil employed ; but the oil should not be boil- 
ing hot when the turpentine is poured in, otherwise 
it may catch fire. Stir it. 

7. Filter or strain the varnish ; then let it rest at 
least forty-eight hours. The sediment will do for 
a coarser or more coloured varnish of the same 
kind : the oil mixed with the sediment will tarnish 
the colour at the second melting. 

709. Copal varnish* 

Melt slowly one pound of copal ; add harf a pint 
of boiling drying oil : when incorporated, add one 
pint of oil of turpentine made hot. You may add 
from half a pint to three pints of boiling drying oil, 
according to the consistence required. i 

710. Another. 

Melt in a perfectly clean vessel, by a very slow 
heat, a pound of clear copal : to this add from one 
to (wo quarts of drying linseed oil ; when the mate- 
rials are thoroughly mixed, remove the vessel from 
the (ire, and keep constantly stirring it till most of 
the heat is gone ; then add one pound of oil of tur- 
pentine. Strain the varnish through a piece of close 
linen, and keep it for use. 

711. Another. 

M. CarendefTez, formerly of St. Domingo, and at 
present resident at New-York, finds that an ounce 
of good suphuric aether, aibd an ounce of copal in 
gioss powder, mixed together in a wed stopped bot- 
tle, and placed in a model^te sand-heat or water- 
bath, form a perfect solution. Mr. C. remarks, 
that the solution, though not very cheap, affords a 
fine and brilliant varnish, and the process is so easy 
as to be repeated by any person though of very mo- 
derate skill. 



'J^ 



348 VARNISHES. 

712. Gold colour varnish or lacker. 

Take eight ounces of amber, two ounces of lae- 
ca ; melt them ; add eight ounces of drying oil : 
then add oil of turpentine coloured with gamboge, 
annatto, saffron and dragon's blood, according to 
the tinge you want. 

713. Black Japan* 

Melt eight ounces of amber; melt (separate!/ 
from the amber) four ounces of asphaltum, and four 
ounces rosin : when melted, add eight ounces of 
boiling oil, and then sixteen ounces of oil of turpen- 
tine; then stir in from half an ounce to one ounce 
lamp-black, and give it another boil or two. 

7 1 4. Common varnish. 

** One pound of rosin, one ounce gumelemi, eight 
ounces drying oil, and sixteen ounces oil of turpen- 
tine. 

715. Varnishes with turpentine alone. 

Oil of turpentine will dissolve any of these resins, 
except copal and amber ; but it does not make bo 
good varnish as when mixed with boiled oil. 

716. Common turpentine varnish 

Is frequently made by dissolving one pound of 
turpentine, or about ten ounces of rosin, in oil of 
turpentine alone. 

717. Elastic gum varnish. 

Cut the gum into small pieces, and digest it with 
thirt}-two parts of pure oil of turpentine for twenty- 
four hours in a warm place. Rosemary, lavender, 
and other essential oils also dissolve it. So does 
nitric aether. If softened by boiling in water, or 
still more in a solution of alum, it may be joined. 

718. Varnishes of ^iims. 

Gum tragacanth and gum-arabic may be dissolv- 



VARNISHES'. 34y 

ed in water ; or the first in brandy. Ichthyocolla 
(isinglass) is best dissolved in brandy or whiskey. 

7 1 9. Elastic gvm. 

Size—Ftom diluted glue 5 from white leather 
cuttings. 

Fish size — Boiled eel skinst 

720. Martinis copal varnish* 

In a large gallon earthen pot, with a cover like a 
chocolate pot, melt four ounces Chio turpentine : 
when fluid, pour in eight ounces of amber powder- 
ed ; set it on the fire a quarter of an hour. Take off 
the pot ; add to it one pound of pounded copal, 
four or more of turpentine, and one gill of warm 
oil of turpentine. Increase the beat a Tittle ; when 
it has been on the fire half an hour, take it off, stir 
the ingredients, adding two ounces of thefinestland 
whitest colophony or rosin. Set it again on the 
fire, and increase the heat till the whole is quite 
fluid. Remove the pot ; let the heat subside a lit- 
tle ; have ready twenty-four ounces (about one pint 
and a quarter) of drying linseed oil, poppy, or nut 
oil ; pour it boiling hot by degrees into your gums 
and stir them well. When mixed, set it again on 
the fire, stirring it till it boils up ; then take it off 
and add a quart of turpentine made hotj stir and 
give it one boil more ; then add another pint of 
turpentine made hot ; stir it well, give it one more 
boil, and it is enough. Strain it; if thicker than 
linseed oil, thin it with oil of turpentine. Let it 
stand a month before it is used. It should be made 
in an open yard, for the frequent practice is very 
unwholesome. 

Great danger will attend the addition of copal, as 
the same heat which would be acquired to dissolve 
the copal would volatilize the turpentine, and take 
fire if the vapour were directed to the flame. 

2G 



"^ 



. 'VMUIMBMI.. 



721. A noCker varnish. 

Melt eight o'inces of Cliio turpentine, pour in 
one pound of powdered nrnbcr by degrees, stirring ~ 
it all Ihe while ; set it oti the fire for half an hour, 
then add two ouncea of white rosin ; atop Ihe cover 
cloae, and increase Ihe [ire till the whole is melted. 
To this add one pound of hot drying oil ; and then 
by degrees a quart of oil of turpentine. Amber can 
■ only be dissolved clear, by melting it with some lees 

fluliuoiis gum. Same procefs for copal varniah. — 
)om. Enc. vol. v. {Philad.) p. 233. 

722. Varnhk for coloured dramngs andprints. 
Take of Canada balsam one ounce, spirit of tur- 
pentine two ounces ; mix them together. Before 
this compofilion is applied, the drawing or print 
should be sized with a solution of isinglaes in wa- 
ter ; and when dry, apply the varnish wilhacameTs 
hair bruBh. 

723. To vanuah pltultr catU or models. 

Take about a quarter of an ounce avoirdupois, 
of the fineit white soap, grate it amaJI, and put it 
into II new glazed earthen veesel, with an English 
pint of wat«r ; hold it over the 6re till the eoap ia 
dissolved, then add the same quantity of bleached 
wax cut ints amall pieces : as soon as the whole is 
incorporated, it is fat for use, 

J/iode of appticalion. — Dry Ihe model weil at the 
fire, suspend it by a thread, and dip it in the Tar- 
nish ; tHke it out, and a quarter of an hour aAer 
dip it in again ; let it stand for six or seven daja, 
then, with a bit of muslin rolled softly round your 
finffcr, rub the model gently, and this will produce 
a hiilliaiit gloss ; but this part of the operation muft 
be dune with great cars and a light hand, as the 
coat of varnish is thin. 



VARNISHES. 351 

724. Another way. 

Take skim milk, from which the cream has been 
carefuHy taken off, and with a earners hair pencil 
lay over the cast till it holds out, or will imbibe no 
more; shake or blow ofTany that remains on the 
surfece, and lay it in a place fre^ from dust ; and 
when it is dry, it will look like polished marble. 

N. B. This last mode answers equally well with 
the former, but will not resist the weather. 

725. Varnish for earthenware* 

To make it white, glass and soda in equal pro- 
portion must be pounded together, very finCf care- 
fully sifted, and well mixed. This mixture must 
next be exposed to a strong heat till it is rendered 
very dry. It is after that to be put into vessek 
which have been already baked ; it will then be 
melted, and the varnish is nriade. It may be applied 
in the usual manner* 

726. French soft varnish for engravers. 

One ounce of virgin's wax, one ounce of asphal- 
tum or Greek pitch, half an ounce of common pitch, 
and a quarter of an ounce of Burgundy pitch. 

N. B. The celebrated Vivares, the landscape 
engraver, always used this varnish, in preference 
to any other. 

727. Varnish for furniture. 

To one part of virgin's white wax add eight parts 
of oil of petroleum ; lay a slight coat of this mix- 
ture on the wood with a badger's brush, while a 
little warm ; the oil will then evaporate, and leave 
a thin coat of wax, which should afterwards be 
polished with a coarse woolen cloth. 

728. A varnish for toilette boxes ^ cases ^ fans, ire. 
Dissolve two ouncea of gum-mastic, -and eight 



352 VARNISHES. 

ounces of gum-sandarac, in a quart oralcobol ; then 
add four ounces of Venice turpentine. 

729. Preparation of the true copal varnish* 

Take two parts of gum copal, reduced to a fine 
powder ; wash it repeatedly in water to free it fronrt 
the woody fibres ; then introduce it into a flask, and 
pour it over four parts of pure oil of rosemary : di- 
gest the mixture in a gentle heat for three days, or 
longer ; after which, add as much highly rectified 
ipirits of wine as is deemed necesssary, and suffer it 
to remain undisturbed, until the impurities subside ; 
then decant the varnish. 

730. To make varnish for oil paintings. 

According to the number of your pictures, take 
#ie whites of the same number of eggs, and to each 
picture take the bigness of a hazel-nut of white su- 
gar-candy, dissolved, and mix it with a tea-spoon- 
ful of brandy ; beat the whites of your e^%'^ to a 
froth; then let it settle; take the clear, put to it 
your brandy and sugar, and varnish over your pic- 
tures with it ; this is much better than any other 
varnish, as it is easily washed off when your pictures 
want cleaning again. 

731. To inake white varnish. 

Dissolve gum-sandarac and gum-mastic in spirits 
of wine ; leave it to settle for two days ; then strain 
it through a linen cloth, let it stand for some time, 
pour off the clear liquid, and bottle it for use. 

732. Another^ by Dr. Withering. 

Take of gum-sandarac an ounce and a half; mas- 
tic, in drops, half an ounce : gum-elemi, a quarter 
of an ounce ; oil of spikelavender, a quarter of an 
ounce ; put them into a half-pint phial, and fill it up 
' with best spirits of wine. Let it stand in rather a 
warm place, till all the gums are dissolved, and then 



VARNISHES. 353 

poor off the varnish into a clean phial, and it ^ill 
be readj for use. 

733. A varnish for preserving insects ^fruits, 4^c. 

Take one pound of re^tifie^^pirits of wine, and 
two ounces of white amber ; add thereto an ounce 
of white sandarac and white nnastic, an ounce 
and a half of Venice turpentine ; digest the whole 
in banco mariae during forty-eight hourd, to an en- 
tire dissolution ; take out the intestines of the in- 
sect you have a mind to preserve ; lay them for 
some days in rectified spirits of wine, mixed with 
clarified sugar-candy ; afterwards besmear them with 
your varnish till they are trrnsparent as glass ; in 
this manner you will preserve them a long time. 

This varnish succeeds equally with vegetables 
and fruits, which never rot or decay when not af- 
fected by the exterior air as has been observed with 
regard to cherries, which are preserved perfectly 
well, by besmearing them with melted white wax. 

734, Method of preparing linseed oil varnish. 
One pound of well pulverized and sifted litharge, 

four ounces of finely pounded white vitriol, and 
one quart of lindseed oil. Put these ingredients in- 
to an iron pan of «uch a size that it may be oniy half 
full ; mix them well together, and boil them till the 
moisture is evaporated, which may be known by a 
pellicle being formed on the surface, or by a barrel 
of a quill bursting when thrust to the bottom of the 
boiling varnish. Then take it from the fire and pour 
off the clear liquid, taking care to keep back the 
thick part, which has deposited itself at the hot* 
tom. While boiling, it must be stirred several times 
round, that the litharge may not fall to the bottom ; 
but stir it constantly, else superfluous litharge will 
be dissolved, and the varnish become too thick. 

The composition of amber varnish consists of 
half a pound of melted or roasted amber, one pound 

2G 2 



and a bair of linseed oil vamieh, and two pounds of 
turpentine oil. The amber and linseed oil varnish 
are to be mixed lognlher in a deep caat-iron pan, 
of such a size as"(oie onlj one-third full, and to be 
kept over a slow me Irll the amber is dissolved, 
nhicb maybe known by its swelling up ; the ope- 
rator therefore must have at hand a large copper, or 
iron vessel, that Ihe varnish may be held over it in 
case it should ri^fe above Ihe sides oflhe pan, and to 
prevent the loss that would thereby be occasioned. 
When the varnish is dissolved, Ihe pan must be 
taken from the fire ; and when the mixture has cool- 
9 ed, the turpentine oil io to be poured into il, aontio- 
ually stirring it. Then let it stand some time, that 
the coarse undissolved particles may deposit them- 
selves at the bottom ; after which pour ofTthe clear 
. varnish, and, having strained it through a piece of 
l^nen, put it into bottles for use. 

In boiling the varnish, care must be taken that it 
may not boil over or catch Gre. Should this hap- 
pen to be the case, it must not be extinguished by 
water ; for this moJc would occasion such a spat- 
tering, that the operator would be in danger ofnav- 
iog his face bespattered with the boiling variiisb. 
The best method, therefore, is to cover the vessel 
inauch a maDner as to exclude the air, and for Ibii 
purpose to have at band a piece of wood, plate of 
jron, or -any thing else that may coyer the vesMl 
and extiagoish the flame. 

735. VarnithfoT pales and coarse wood viork- 
. Take any quantity of tar, and grind it witfa u. 
much Spanish brown at it will bear, without render- 
ing it too thick to be used as a paint or varnish, and 
then spread it on the pale», or other wood, as soon 
as conveoieBt, for it quickly hardens by keeping. 

This mixture miut be laid on the wood to be var- 
jiished, by a large brush, or houEe-paiater'a.tooI ; 



VAtlNISHES. 355 

and the work should then be kept as free from dust 
as possible, till the varnish be thoroughly drj. It 
will, if laid on smooth wood, have a very good 
gless, and is an excellent preservative of it against 
moisture ; on which account, as well as its being 
cheaper, it is far preferable to painting, not only 
for pales, but for weather boarding, and all other 
kinds of wood-work for grosser purposes. Where 
the glossy brown colour is not liked, the work may 
be made of a greyish brown, by mixing a small pro- 
portion of white lead, or whitening, or ivory black, 
with the Spanish brown. 

730. To make Gold varnish. 

This ingenious process, which is at present em- 
ployed throughout Europe, in gilding wooden 
frames, coaches, and various articles, and which 
was formerly used in the preparation ofthen*,j{; 
old fashioned leather tapestry, was invented towards 
the^nd of the sixteenth century. The composition 
is as follows : — 

Take gum-lac, and having freed it from the filth 
and bits of wood with which it is mixed, put it into 
a small linen bag, and wash it, in pure water, till 
the water becomes no longer red, then take it from 
the bag and suffer it to dry. When it is perfectly 
dry, pound it very fine, because the finer it is pound- 
ed it will dissolve the more readily. Then take 
four parts of spirits of wine, and one of gum re- 
duced, as before directed, to an impalpable powder, 
so that for every four pounds of spirits you may 
have one of gum ; mix these together ; and, having 
put them into an alembic, graduate the fire so that 
the gum may dissolve in the spirits. When dis- 
solved, strain the whole through a strong piece of 
linen cloth ; throw away what remains in the cloth, 
as of no use, and preserve the liquor in a glass bot- 
tle, closely corked. This is the gold varnish which 
may be employed for gilding any kind of wood. 



3^6 VAftNYSHES. 

When yoa wieh to use it, you must, in order that 
the work may be done with more smoothness, em- 
ploy a brush made of the tail of a certain quadruped 
called Vari, well known to those who sell colours 
for painting ; and with this instrument dipped in the 
liquor, wash over gently, three times, the wood 
which has been silvered. You must, however, re- 
member, every time you pass the brush over the 
wood, to let it dry : for, in so doing, your work will 
be extremely* beautiful, and have a resemblance to 
the finest gold. 

737. Varnuh for paints y drawings^ ^c» <J^c. 

Boil four ounces of isinglass, in small pieces, in 
one quart of brandy or spirits of wine, expose it to 
the air, and when only warm wash over the print or 
drawing (which should be previously mounted) and 
let it stand till quite dry ; (hen wash it again at a 
small distance from the fire, or it will blister, which 
repeat two or three times ; then go twice over with 
the following white varnish : — Take ofgum-sanda- 
rac and gum mastic equal parts ; dissolve them in 
spirits of wine ; let them settle two days, then strain 
through a linen cloth, and pour the clear liquor into 
a bottle for use. 

738. To make a lacquer for brass. 

Take eight ouncss of spirits of wine, and one 
ounce of annatto, well bruised ; mix this in a bottle 
by itself; then take one ounce of gamboge, and mix 
it in like manner, to the same quantity of spirits : 
also bruise saffron, steeped in spirits, to nearly 
the same proportion. After this take seed lac var- 
nish, what quantity you please, and you may bright- 
en it to your mind by the above mixture ; if it be 
tooyellowadd a little more from the annatto bottle ; 
and if it be too red, add a little more from the gam- 
boge, or saffron bottle ; if too strong, add a little spir- 
its of wine, &;c. Thus you may temper lacquer or 
varnish to what degree of perfection you please. 



To make Chinese varnish. 



Take of gum-tac in grains four ounces ; put it into 
a strong bottle, with a pound of good spiriis of wine, 
and add about the bulk of a haze) nut of camphor ; 
allow them to mix in summer in the sun, or in win- 
der on hot embers, for twenty-four hours, shaking 
the bottle from time to time ; pass the whole tbrougn 
a fine clolh, and throw away what remains upon it- 
Then let it settle for twenty four hours, and you 
will find a clear part in the upper part of the bottle, 
which you must separate gently, and put into anoth- 
er phial, and the remains will serve for the first lay- 
ers. 

740. Varnish lo prevent the ra^s of the iunfrom 
passing through the glasses of windows. 

Pulverize gum-tragacantb, and put it to dissolve 
for twenty-four hours in whites of eggs well beaten. 
Ley a coat of this on the panes of your windows 
with a soft brush, and-let it dry, 

741. Seed-lac varnish. 

Take spirit of wioe one quart ; put it iato a wide- 
mouthed bottle, and add thereto eight ounces of 
fleed-)ac, which is targe grained, bright, and clear, 
free from dirt and sticks : let it stand two days or 
longer, in a warm place, often shaking it, strain it 
through a ilanne) into another battle, and it ii fit 
for use. 

Take good spirits of wine ona'^I^I^^^IHM'B^^ 
of the thinnest and most trauBparent 'tibeH-Iac, 
which, if melted in the flame of a -and le, mil druw 
out in the longest and finest ' 
these together, and let thsp' 
for two days, and il ii tf.»Ai 
li Bofter than that nbi^b it - 



ndle, will druw i 



358 REMEDIES FOR DESTROYING VERMIN. 

fore is not 80 useful, but may be mixed with it for 
varnishing wood, &lc. 



CHAPTER XXXIV. 

EFFICACIOUS REMEDIES FOR DESTROYING VERMIN". 



743. To destroy ants* 

Ants that frequent houses or gardens may be de- 
stroyed by taking flour, of brimstone half a pound, 
and potash four ounces : set them in an iron or 
earthen pan over the fire till dissolved and united ; 
afterwards beat them to a powder, and infuse a lit- 
tle of this powder iw water ; and wherever you 
sprinkle it the ants will die, or fly the place. 

744. .Another. 

Corrosive sublimate, mixed well with sugar, has 
proved a mortal poison to them, and is the ino&t 
effectual way of destroying these insects. 

745. To destroy beetles. 

The mode of destroying beetles is when the fire 
is put out at bed-time, to lay a little treacle. on a 
piece of wood afloat in a broad pan of water. — 
These vermin are so fond of treacle, that they will 
even struggle to gain it in the agonies of death. 

746. Another. 

Take some small lumps of unslacked lime, and 
put into the chinks or holes from which they issue, 
it will effectually destroy them ; or it may be scat- 
tered on the ground, if they are more numerous 
than in their holes. 



REMEDIES FOR DESTROYING VERMIN. 359 

747. To destroy bugs and worms in wood. 

An eminent physician has discovered that by 
inibbing wood with a solution of vitriol, insects and 
bugs are prevented from harbouring therein* When 
the strength of this remedy is required to be increas- 
ed, there need only be boiled some coloquintida ap- 
ples in water, in which, afterwards, vitriol is dis- 
solved, and the bedstead, with the wood about 
them, and the wainscoting being anointed with the 
liquor, will be ever after clear of worms or bugs. 
The wall may be likewise rubbed with the compo- 
sition, and some of it may be dropped into the holes 
where these insects are suspected to be harboured. 
As to the walls, they require only to be washed over 
with the vitriol water. 

748. To drive away crickets • 

These troublesome insects, from a superstitious 
notion that they bring good luck, are frequently 
preserved. Those who wish to have them remov- 
ed will find the smoke of charcoal destroy them, 
and loud sounds driVe them away. Cock roaches 
are likewise destroyed by the smoke of charcoal. 

749. To destroy crickets. 

Mix some roasted apple with a little white arsen- 
ic powdered, and put a little of this mixture into the 
holes or cracks in which the crickets are ; they 
will eat it and perish. 

750. Methods of stopping the ravages of caterpil- 
lars from shrubsy plants, and vegetables. 

Take a chafing-dish, with lighted charcoal, and 
place it under the branches of the tree, or bush, 
whereon are the caterpillars ; then throw a little 
brimstone on the coals. This, however, must be 
done only in very small quantities, lest the sulphur 
destroy the plants. The vapour of the sulphur, 



'360 REMEDIES rOli UESTKUyiNt; VEHUIN. 

i< iffocating 

, laiuuai, will not only 

oj ail < the t :e, but will effectually 

P t B tri ;, that seaEon, iofested 



lur nilicle: 



J many 



lea as gron on ^s. 

. A rmethoQoian,, these insecla off fruit- 

trees IS il tO| a ti'janttty of rue, worm- 

wood, ana t 10 ceo, of each equal parts, id 

' common water, i m ; ihould be very strong. 
Sprinkle this on t ea and young branches 

every morning ana during the lime the 

^ruit is ripening. 

In the Economical Journal of France, the follow- 
ing method of guarding cabbages from the depre- 
dations of calerpillara is stated to be infallible, and 
may, perhaps be equally serviceable against those 
which infest other vegetables. Son with hemp all 
the borders of the ground wherein the cabbage is I 
planted -, and, although Ihe neighbourhood be in- 
fested wilh caterpillars, the soace inclosed by tha 
hemp will be perfectly free, rad not one of thsM 
vermin will approach it. 

751. ttiqvor for dcttroymg cttttrpUlart, ants, ^ad 
other iiutctt. 

Take a pound and three quarter! of soap, the 
■ame qaantity of floor of sulphur, two pound* o( 
cfaampigDODB, or puff ball, and fifteen g:allona of ' 
water. When the whole baa been well mixed,- Inr 
the aid of a gentle heat, sprinkle the insect! with 
the hquor, and it will inBtantty kill them. 
753. For destrot/ing caterpillart on goostberrjf 

Take one Scots pint (two English quarts) of to- 
bacco hquor (which may be made, where it caoDOt 
be purchased, by infusing any kind of tobacco in 
wster till all the strength be extracted) which the 



HEHfiDIES FOR DESTROYING VERMIN. 361 

manufacturers of tobacco generally sell for destroy- 
ing bugs, and mix them with about one ounce of 
alum ; and when the alum is sufficiently dissolved,- 
put this mixture into a plate, or other vessel, wide 
and longenough to admit of a brush, like a weaver's 
brush, being dipped into it ; and as early in the 
season as you can perceive the leaves of the bush- 
es to be in the least eaten, or the eggs upon the 
leaves (whiclrgenerally happens about the end of 
May) and which will be found in great numbers on 
the veins of the leaves on their under side ; you are 
then to take the preparation, or liquor, and after 
dipping the brush into it, and holding the brush 
towards the under side of the bush, which is to be 
raised and supported by the hands of another per- 
son ; and by drawing your hand gently over the 
hairs of the brusbi the above liquid is sprinkled, 
and falls in small drops on the leaves ; the conse- 
quence of which is, if the eggs are there, they 
never come forward ; and if they have already gen- 
erated worms, in a minute or two after the liquor 
touches them, they either die or sicken, so as to 
fall off the bush ; at least they do so upon giving it 
a little shake. If, upon their thus falling ofiF^ they 
shall not appear completely dead, the bush should 
be held up, and either a little boiling water from a 
watering-pot thrown over them, or a bruise given 
them by a spade or shovel ; or the earth, where 
they lie, turned over with a hoe. This preparatioa 
does not in the least injure the bushes. 

753. To preserve flowers J leaves j and fruity from 

caterpillarsm 

These depredators are destroyed by oils, which 
close the lateral ^Qtes by which they breathe. For 
this purpose it is'^vised, that on the approach of 
spring, a cloth dipped in train oil, be laid on such 

2H 



362 REMEDIES FOR DESTROYING VERHIN. 

m 

parts of the tree in #hich there is the least appear- 
ance of them* 

754. Method to destroy or drive away earth wormSf 
and other insects^ hurtful to fields and gardens. 

Three parts of quicklime, newly made, and two 
parts ofsoap-boilersMey or potash dissolved in wa- 
ter, will producea somewhat milky liauor sufficient- 
ly caustic, and highly hostile and poisonous to earth- 
worms and other small animals ; for, as soon as it 
touches any part of their bodies, it occasions in 
them violent symptoms of great uneasiness. If this 
liquor be poured into those holes, in which the 
earth worms reside underground, they immediate- 
ly throw themselves out as if driven by some force, 
and, after various contortions, languish and die. 
If the leaves of plants or fruit trees, frequented by 
the voracious caterpillars, which are so destruc- 
tive to them, be sprinkled over with this liquor, 
these insects suddenly contract their bodies and 
drop to the ground. For, though nature has de- 
fended them tolerably well by their hairy skins, 
from any thing (hat might injure their delicate bo- 
dies ; yet, as soon as they touch with their feet or 
mouths the leaves which have been moistened by 
this liquor, they become, as it were stupified, in- 
stantly contract themselves, and fall down. 

755. To destroy earwigs and wood lice. 

A very simple way of ensnaring them, and by 
which they may be taken alive in great quantities, 
rs to place four inch cuts of reeds, bean, haulm, or 
strong wheat ^traw, among the branches, and also 
Ia> a number on the ground, at the bottom of the 
wall. In these the insects take refuge at day- 
break, as they depredate chiefly in the night ; and 
any time th'OU^h the day they may be blown into a 
bottle with a little water in it, and so be drowned. 



REMEDIES FOR DESTROYING VERMIN. 363 

Or, a cheaper way is to burn the straw, and scatter 
fresh on the ground. 

756. Remedies against fleas. 

Fumigation with brimstone, or the fresh leaves 
of penny-royal sewe^ in a bag, and laid in the bed, 
will have the desired effect. 

757. To destroy fleas on dogs. 

Rub the animal, when out of the house, with the 
common Scotch snuff, except the nose and eyes. 
Rub the powder well in to the roots of the hair. 
Clear lime-water destroys the whitish flea worm 
without injuring the skin or hair. Oil of turpentine 
will likewise do so ; but if there be any manginess, 
or the skin be broken, it will give the animal much 
pain. 

758. To clear gardens of vermin by ducks. 

Ducks are excellent vermin-pickers, whether of 
caterpillars (such as are within their reach,) slugs, 
snails, and others, and ought to be turned into the 
garden one or two days every week throughout the 
season. Never keep tlicm Soiiger in thari two or 
three hours at a time, else they become indolent. 
While here, they should have a little water set 
down to them, if there be no pond or stream in the 
garden. 

Never turn them into the garden in the time of 
heavy rains, or in continued wet weather, as in 
that case, and particularly if the soil be stiff, they 
patter and harden the surface to the great injury of 
small crops and rising seeds. 

759. The ««e of garlic against moles, grubs^ and 

snails. 

Moles are such enemies to the smell of garlic, that, 
in order to get rid of these troublesome and destruc- 
tive guests, it is sufficient to introduce a few heads 



v364 REMEDIES FOR DESTROYING TERMIN. 

of garlic into their subterraneous walks, it is like* 
wise employed with success against grubs and 
snails. 

760. The vse of sulphur in destroying insects on 

plantSj and its btnefit in vegetation. 

Tie up some flour of sulphur in a piece of mus- 
lin or fine linen, and with this the leaves of joung 
-shoots of plants should be dusted, or it may be- 
thrown on them by means of a common swansdown 
puff, or even by a dredging-box. 

Flesh assurances have repeatedly been received 
of the powerful influence of sulphur against the 
whole tribe of insects and worms which infest and 
prey on vegetables. Sulphur has also been found 
to promote the health of plants, on which it was 
sprinkled ; and that peach trees, in particular, were 
remarkably improved by it; and seemed to absorb 
it. It has likewise been observed, that the ver- 
dure, and other healthful appearances, were per- 
ceptibly increased : for the quantity of new shoots 
and leaves formed subsequently to the operation, 
and having no sulphur on their surfaces, served as 
a kind of confiparalive index, and pointed out, dis* 
tinctly, the accumulation of health. 

761. Method of destroying insects on fruit trees. 

Make a strong decoction of tobacco, and the ten- 
der shoots of elder, by pouring boiling water on 
ihem ; then sprinkle your trees with the same (cold) 
twice a week, for two or three weeks, with a small 
hearth brush, which will eflectually destroy the in- 
sects ^T»t 0^^ leaves will retain their verdure until 
the fall of the year. -__ 

If used early, as soon as the budlJnfolJs itself, it 
will probably prevent the fly. The effect of tobac- 
co has long boen known, and elder water frequent- 
ly sprinkled on honeysuckles and roses has been 
found to prevent insects from lodging on them. 



MMEDIES FOR DESTROYING VERMIN. 365 

The quantity to be made use of is ^ne'ounce of 
tubacco io out gallon of water, with about two 
liandfuls of elder. You may, however, make it ag 
strong as you please, it being perfectly innocent to 
the plants. 

762. To destroy insects prejudicial to apple-trees. 

To one hundred gallons of human urine, and 
one bushel of lime, add cow-dung to bring it to the 
consistence of paint. With this composition anoint 
the trees. The month of March is the proper sea- 
son for applying it. If the white efSorescence-like 
substance, in which the insects are lodged, has made 
its appearance, it should previously be brushed 
off. 

763. To destroy insects on fruit trees. 

Wasps, about the month of July, will begin to 
swarm about the early fruits, and for their destruc- 
tion, phials should be hung about the branches half 
filled with honey and water, or with sugar and small 
beer. These should be emptied and replaced once 
in two or three days, otherwise they do not take so 
well ; these little animals being extremely saga- 
cious, and disliking the appearance of their own 
species dead. 

764. To destroy insects onfruit trees. 

Winter is the proper season to apply the follow- 
ing solution. The juices are then determined to 
the root : — 

Soft soap, two pounds ; leaf or roll tobacco, one 
pound ; nux vomica, two ounces ; and turpentine, 
half an English gill ; boil them in eight English gal- 
lons of soft or river water, to six \ and use it milk- 
warm« • 

Unnail, or untie, all the branches from the wall 
or trellis ; brush every part of the tree clean with a 
soft brush, such as is used for painting \ tbeii, with 

2H2 



36G REMEDIES FOR DESTROYING VERMIN. 

a sponge, e«refull^anoint every branch, root, and 
bud ; and be sure rub it Itr^lt Into tfrerj joint, faolCf 
and angle, as il is there the eggs or larvae of the 
insects are chiefly lodged. The rails, spars, &:c« 
of the espalier or trellis, should also be anointed 
as above. 

This operation should be repeated every winter, 
sometime between the fall of the leaf and the first 
of February, as may be most convenient. The 
solution is effectually destructive to all kinds of in* 
sects, their eggs or larvae. 

765. To kill reptiles. 

Take twelve ounces of quicklime in powder, two 
ounces of Scotch snuff, two ounces of basket salt, 
two ounces of sulphur vivum, dissolved in ten gal- 
lons of water, and thrown on the insects, either in 
the liquid or powder, will destroy them. 

766. To prevent slugs from getting into fruit trees. 

If the trees are standards, tie a coarse horse^ 
hair rope about them, two or three feet from the 
ground. If they are against the wall, nail a nar- 
row slip of coarse horse-hair cloth against the wa/1, 
about half a foot from the ground, and they will 
never get over it, for :f they attempt it, it will kill 
them, as their bellies are soft, and the horse-hair 
v?ill wound them. 

767. To destroy snails. 

Snails are great enemies to wall-fruit ; and in a 
dewy morning you may easily find where they most 
delight to breed ; but the best way is to find out 
their haunts in a hard winter, and then destroy 
them ; they lie much in holes of walls, under thorns, 
behind old trees, or old and close hedges. If you 
pluck not the fruit they have begun to devour, but 
let it alone, they will finish their repast on this 
before they begin another. 



REMEDIES FOR DESTROViNG VERMIN. 367 



768« To destroy the red spider so troublesome in dry 

seasons* 

The red spider makes its appearance in hot dry 
weather, and is always fobnd on the under sides of 
the leaves, generally on roughish leaves, but not al- 
ways 'so. It preys on the appi^, cAerTT^itfigt^ef^cb, 
pear, and plum, seldom on the apricot. It is among 
the smallest of the acari ; and is sometimes not dis- 
tinguishable without a microscope. If the bark of 
the leaf be viewed through one, it appears full of its 
webbs : and if many abound on it, the leaf appears 
full of punctures, becomes discoloured, and brown 
on the upper surface, fades, and falls off. 

This insect is more troublesome in dry seasons 
than in moist ones, and is wonderfully encouraged 
by beat, insomuch that bot>houses of every descrip- 
tion are sadly infested with it. Water, and water 
only, is its bane ; and the sjringe, or the force- 
pump, the engine of its destruction. It is not a 
mere sprinkling that will do ; it requires a forcible 
dashing to and fro, and that often repeated, to be 
effectual. 

769. To destroy vermin in children's heads* 

Take one ounce of vinegar, one ounce of staves- 
acre, well powdered, half an ounce of honey, half 
an ounce of sulphur, and two ounces of sweet oil ; 
mix the whole well together into a liniment, 
and rub the bead repeatedly with a little thereof. 

770. To destroy vermin in granaries and other out* 

buildings* 

Cover completely the walls and rafters, above 
and below, of the granaries, &c. which afe infested 
with weevils and other vermin, with quicklime 
slacked in water, in which trefoil, wormwood, and 
hyssop, have been boiled. This composition ought 
to be applied as hot as possible. 



36^ RXMEDISS rOK DKSTaOYINO VERMIf^^ 

771. To destroy vermin on animals. 

Oil of turpentine, when applied to animals, which 
were covered with insects, destroyed the insects 
without hurting the animal. 

772. To destroy insects on wall fruit trees. 

Take an old tin watering pan, or any similar ves- 
sel, and make a charcoal fire in it ; add a (abe or 
pipe, made of either tin, leather, or stiff paper, to 
the spout, which may be of any sufficient length ; 
then strew some brimstone, tobacco dust, fine shreds 
of leather, &c. upon the fire, in the pan, and cover 
the top ; having a pair of bellows ready, hold the 
wind-flap over the tube or pipe to receive the 
smoke, which it will do very effectually when you 
use the bellows. By this means the suffocating va- 
pour may be directed through the bellows to any 
part of the tree with the greatest ease and facility, 
and the tree soon cleared of all vermin. This me- 
thod is much more effectual than the old one, where 
a chafing-dish has been recommended for this pur- 
pose, because the latter method is more trouble- 
some, and requires the wind to blow from a partic- 
ular quarter right against the trees, which can sel- 
dom be obtained. 

773. To destroy wasps and flies instantly. 

Wasps and flies may be killed very fast, by dip- 
ping a feather in a little sweet oil, and touching 
their backs with it ; they will instantly die. When 
intent on the fruit, and half buried in the excavations 
they have made, they are easily come at, and are 
not apt to fly about. Insects of different kinds are 
easily killed by oil ; it closes up the lateral pores 
by which they breathe. 

774. Method of destroying wasps and hornets. 

Those that are not unacquainted with natural his- 
tory know that all the working wasps die every au- 



REMEDIES FOR DESTROY^O VERMIN. 369 

tumn, when the cold weather comes on, and that 
onlj a few females survive the winter, and keep up 
the breed. These (which are turgid with eggs, and 
much larger than the workers) come forth about 
April from their lurking holes, and being singly 
each its nest, which in a moderate time becomes 
populous. It is therefore of great consequence to 
kill as many of these as possible, since a whole 
swarm is destroyed in every single female early in 
the year. The places to find them are at new posts, 
pales, meloh frames, or any solid timber ; for, as 
they make their combs with the shavings of the 
sound wood, which they rasp off with their fangs, 
and moisten up with a certain mucus that nature 
has provided in their bodies, they will readily be 
found near such materials. 

Hornets must be searched for on decayed pests, 
rails, &c. for they make their combs with touch- 
wood, and the same kind of natural cement. 

In the very hot summer of 1762, wasps were so 
numerous and alert, that it looked as if no fruit could 
have hung till it was fit for the table. They began 
on the grapes before they were half ripe ; and, get- 
ting into the meloQ*frames, scooped out all the 
pulp of the fruit, leaving only empty shells. 1 tried 
phials, as usual, filled with sugared beer, &c. this 
destroyed some, but did not seem to lessen their 
swarms ; at last I bethought myself to buy some 
birdlime, with which I tipped several taper hazel 
rods of different lengths, and so began catching 
them by hand, applying the top of the rod as they 
settled on the fruit. This appeared at first to be a 
tedious method ; but, after a little practice, it soon 
had the desired effect, for a handy person or two 
would in a few hours entangle four or five hundred ; 
and it soon appeared they were not so numerous as 
we imagined ; and the taking the workers starved 
the grubs, which are supported by them, and pre* 



370 REMEDIES FOR DESTROYING VERMTN. 

vented a succession. Bj this simple method, inef- 
fectual as it may appear, I saved my fruit entire, 
which hung till it was ripened to great perfection. 

Hornets, as they are larger and more sluggish, 
are easily taken : this method of touching them is a 
sort of angling, and not a bad amusement for half 
an hour. As fast as they are caught they must be 
squeezed to death with a flat piece of lath, the tip 
of the rod refrebhed with birdlime now and then. 
The reason of providing rods of different lengths is 
to suit the different heights of the wall. 

While I am speaking of fruit it may not be amiss 
to add, that this summer I recovered a peach (rce 
that was quite shrivelled up on one side by a par- 
tial watering, two or three times a week, of the 
affected part. 

775. To destroy worms in gardens. 

Water your beds with a strong decoction of wal- 
mit-trce leaves where there are worm casts ; the 
worms will immediately rise up out of the earth, nnd 
yon may easily take and cut them to pieces, and fat- 
ten your poultry therewith, or feed fish in ponds 
with them. 

By laying ashes or lime about any plant, neither 
snails nor worms will come n»*ar it. As the mois- 
ture weakens it, you must, more or less, continue to 
renew the lirne or nsbes. 

776. To destroy xvorms in gravel 7ualks, <J^c. 

Pour into the hole? a Iny, made of wood ashes 
and lime : this will also destroy insects, if trees are 
sprinkled with it. Salt and water will do as well* 

777. Usefulness of the zuren in destroying insects. 

As a devourcr of pernicous insects, one of the 
most useful birds is the house wren. This little bird 
seems peculiarly fond of the society of man, and it 
must be confessed that it i? often protected by his 



WATEK. • 371 

interested care. It has long been a custom, m ma- 
ny parts of the country, to 6x a small box at the 
end of a long pole, in gardens, about houses, &c. 
as a place for it to build in. In these boxes they 
build and hatch their young. When the young are 
hatched, the parent birds feed them with a variety 
of insects, particularly such as are injurious in gar- 
dens. An intelligent gentleman was at the trouble 
to observe the number of tiroes a pair of these 
birds came from their box, and returned with in- 
sects for their young. He found that they did this 
from forty |to sixty times in an hour ; and, in one 
particular hour, the birds carried food to their 
young seventy-one times. In this business they were 
engaged the greater part of the day ; say twelve 
hours. Taking the medium, therefore, of fifty 
times in an hour, it appeared that a single pair of 
these birds took from the cabbage, salad, beans, 
peas, and other vegetables in the garden, at least 
six hundred insects in the course of one day. This 
calculation proceeds upon the supposition, that the 
two birds took only a single insect each time. But 
it is highly probable they often took several at a 
' time. 



CHAPTER XXXV. 

WATER. 



778. To make artificial sea-water. 

Take common sea salt, two pounds ; bitter purg- 
ing salt, two ounces ; magnesia earth Jialf an ounce ; 
dissolve all in river water, six gallons. These are 
the exact proportions and contents of sea-water, 
from an accurate analyzation. 



Sl'i WAT£U. 

779. Another method of making sea water^ 
Take common salt^ half an ounce ; rain, or river 

water pure, a pint ; spirit of sea salt, twenty drops. 
Mix it. 

780. Easy and expeditious method of dissipating 
the noxious vapours found in welis^ ire. btf Ebeti' 
ezer Robinson^ of Philadelphia. 

(From the " Transactions of the American Philo- 
sophical Society/') 

After various unsuccessful trials, I was led tocon- 
dider how I could convey a large quantity of fresh 
air from the top to the bottom of the well, suppos- 
ing that the foul would necessarily give way to the 
pure air. With this view, I procured a pair of 
smith's bellows, fixed in a wooden frame, so as to 
work in the same manner as at the forge. This ap- 
paratus being placed at the edge of the well, one 
end of a leathern tube (the nose of a fire engine) 
was closely adapted to the nose of the bellows, and 
the other end was thrown into the well, reaching 
within one foot of the bottom. 

At this time the well was so infected, that a can- 
dle would not burn at a short distance from the 
top ; but, after blowing with my bellows only half 
an hour, the candle burned bright at the bottom : 
then, without further difficulty, 1 proceeded in the 
work, and fiqished my well. 

Wells are often make in a very slight manner, 
owing to the difficulty of working in them, and 
there have been several fatal instances of the dan- 
ger attending the worknr^n ; but by the above me- 
thod there is neither difficulty nor danger in com- 
pleting the work with the utmost solidity. 

It is obvious, that in cleaning vaults, and work- 
ing in any subterraneous place subject to damps, as 
they are called, the same method must be attended 
with the same beneficial effects. 



y 



WINES. ^73 



CHAPTER^XXVI. 



WINES. 



781. To make British champagne* 

Take gooseberries before they grow ripe, crush 
them with a mallet in a wooden bowl, and to every 
gallon of fruit put a gallon of water ; let it stand 
two days, stirring it well ; squeeze the mixture well 
with your hands through a hop-sieve ; then mea- 
sure your liquor, and to every gallon put three 
pounds and a half of loaf sugar ; mix it well in the 
tub, and let it stand one day : put a bottle of the 
best brandy in the cask ; leave the cask open five 
or six weeks, taking off the scum as it rises ; then 
make it up, and let it stand one year in the barrel 
before bottled. 

N. B. One pint of brandy is put to seven galloOB 
of liquor. 

782. To make koumiss^ a valuable wine of ike Tar- 
tars » 

Take of fresh mare's milk, of one day, any quan- 
tity ; add to it a sixth-part water, and pour the mix- 
ture into a wooden vessel ; use then, as a ferment, 
an eighth-part of the sourest cow's milk that can be 
got ; but at any future preparation, a small portion 
of old koumiss will betteranswer the purpose of sour- 
ing. Cover the vessel with a thick cloth, and set it 
in a place of moderate warmth ; leave it at rest 
twenty-four hours ; at the end of which time the 
milk will have beconoe sour, and a thick substance 
will be gathered on its top ; then, with a stick, 
made at the lower end in the manner of a chum 
staff, beat it till the thick substance above-mention- 

21 



374 WINES. 

ed be blended intimatdljr with the subjacent flaid. 
In this situation leave it again at rest for twenty* 
four hours more ; after which, pour it into a higher 
and narrower vessel, resembling a churn, where the 
agitation must be repeated as before, till the liquor 
appear to be perfectly homogeneous ; and in this 
state it is called koumiss : of which th^ taste ought 
to be a pleasant mixture of sweet and sour. Agi- 
tation must be employed every time before it is used. 
This wine operates as a cooling antisceptic, an use- 
ful stimulant, cordial, and tonic, and may prove a 
valuable article of nourishment ; and it has one ex- 
cellence, perhaps not the least, that the materials 
from which it is prepared are cheap, and the mode 
of preparation simple. 

783. Orange mne. 

Take the expressed juice of eight Seville oranges; 
and, having one gallon of water wherein three 
pounds of sugar have been boiled, boil the water 
find sugar for twenty minutes ; skim constantly, aud 
when cooled to a proper heat for fermentation, add 
the juice, and the outer rind of the fruit, shaved off. 
Put all into a barrel, stir it frequently for two or 
three days, and then closely bung it for six months 
before it is bottled* 

784. Excellent .American wine. 

[Originally communicated to the public by Joseph 
Cooper, Esq. of New- Jersey, North America.J 

^^ !• put a quantity of the comb, from which the 
honey had been drained, into a tub, and added a 
barrel of cider, immediately from the press ; this 
mixture was well stirred, and left for one night. It 
was then strained before a fermentation took place ; 
and honey was added, until the strength of the li- 
quor was suffirient to bear an egg. It was then put 
into a barrel •, and after the fermentation comment- 



WINES* 375 

ed, the cask was filled eveipday, for three or four 
days, that the filth might work out of the buog-hole. 
When the fermentation moderated, I put the bung 
in loosely, lest stopping it tight might cause the. cask 
to burst. At the end of five or six weeks, the liquor 
was drawn off into a tab; and the whites of eight 
eggs, well beat up, with a pint of clean sand, were 
put into it : I then added a gallon of cider spirit ;. 
and aftertnixing the whole well together, I returned 
it into the cask, which was well cleaned, bunged it 
tigTit, and placed it in a proper situation for racking 
off, when fine. In the month of April following, 1 
drew it off into kegs, for use ; and found it equal, in 
my opinion, to almost any foreign wine : in the 
opinion of many judges, it was superior. . 

'^ This success has induced me to repeat the ex- 
periment for three years ; and I am peiauaded, that 
by using clean honey, instead of the comb as above 
described, such an improvement might be made, as 
would enable the citizens of the United States io 
supply themselves with a truly federal and whole- 
some wine, which would not cost a quarter of a doN 
lar per gallon, were all the ingredients procured at 
the market price ; and wouldiiave this peculiar ad- 
vantage over every other wine hitherto attempted 
in this country, that it contains no foreign mixture, 
but is made from ingredients produced on our own 
farms."-(2)r. MtastU edit, of Dr. Willkh^s Domts- 
tic Encyclopedia^ vol 5.) 



.vi 



57*; 



WRITING. 

CHAPTER XXXVIJ, 

Writing. 



705. Setret methods of writing. 

A letter of common business may be interlined, 
by writing with saT-ammoniac dissolved in water^ 
or with the juice of a lemon; these letters will not 
he visible till they are held by the fire ; but a letter 
so written will, in a short time discover itself /rom 
the corroding acid and moisture of the liquid. So a 
letter, written with dissolved alum, will hot be dis- 
cernible till the paper be dipped in water. 

A letter may be written with the yolk of an egg; 
bat when the letters are quite dry, the paper must 
be blackenedall over with ink, and the confederate, 
by scraping the paper gently with a knife, will ex- 
pose the letters written with an egg, while the rest 
of the paper continues black. 

786. An artificial water for writing letters of se- 
crecy. 

Take copperas finely powdered, put a little 
ihereof into a new ink-horti, pour clean water on it ; 
and after it has stood a little while write therewith, 
cither on vellum or parchment, and the writing can- 
not be seen any other way than by drawing the let- 
ters through a water thus prepared : — Take a pint 
of water, put into it one ounce of powdered galU, 
temper it together, and strain it through a cloth ; 
put the water into a dish that is wide enough, and. 
draw your writing through it, and you will read it as 
you do other writings ; and to make the secret coq^ 
tents less liable to suspicion, you may write on U^ 



WRITING. 3T7 

contrary side of the paper oi^parcbment, with black 
writing ink, matters of less consequence. 

787. Another. 

Take flake white, or any other whitening, and di- 
lute it in water impregnated with gum adragant. If 
you write with this liquor, the writing will not be 
perceivable, unless you hold the paper to the sun or 
the light of a candle. The reason why it is so, is, 
that the rays of light do not pass with the same fa- 
cility through the letters, formed with this l«quor, as 
through the other parts of the paper. 

788. To write secretly on a pocket handkerchief. 

Dissolve alum in pure water, and write upon a 
fine white handkerchief, which, when dry, will not 
be seen at all ; but when you would have the letters 
visible, dip the handkerchief in pure water, and it 
will be of a wet appearance all over, except where 
it was written with the alum water. 

You may also write with alum water upon writ- 
ing paper, which will not be visible till dipped in 
water. 

789. To write both blue and red letters at once with 
the same ink and pen, and upon the same paper. 

Take the quantity of a hazel nut litmus blue to 
three spoonfulsofconduitwater, wherein some gum- 
arabic is dissolved, and wlien it has settled the space 
of an hour, if you write with it, you will have let- 
ters of a perfect blue ; and if you dip a hair pencil 
in the juice qf lemons, and moisten some part of the 
paper therewith, afterwards letting it dry again, 
and then write upon the place where the juice of 
lemons was laid with the blue ink, the letters will 
suddenly become red, and in all the rest of the |Dra< 
per they will be blue. 

21 2 



378 WftlTING. 

790. To write different colours upon the sdmtpaper 

with the juice of Violets^ 

Dip a camel-hair pencil io diluted spirit of vi- 
triol or any other acid, run it over part of the pa- 
per, and when it is dry write upon it with a pen dip- 
ped in the juice of violets, and the writing will im- 
mediately turn to a fine red. — If 3^00 write with pure 
violet juice, you have a violet blue. — By runniog 
the other part of the paper over with a hair-pencil 
dipped in any alkaline salt, as salt of wormwood 
dissolved in water, and writing upon the s&me, 
when dry, with violet juice, you have a very fine 
green. Writing upon tincture of steel with violet 
juice, you have a black. If you write with the 
jnice of violets, and rub on one part of the writing, 
spirit of vitriol, and on the other spirit of hartshorn, 
or salt of wormwood dissolved, you have red and 
green. When the writing is held to the fire it be- 
comes yellow. 

791. To write in the dark^ as straight as by day or 

candle light. 

Write with a pecil on an ivory leaf; for if lines 
are drawn on the leaf with a needle, or any sharp 
point, they may be felt by the point of the pencil. 

792. Method of forming letters of gold on paper^ 

and for ornaments of writing* 

Pulverize gum-ammoniac, and dissolve it in wa- 
ter, previously impregnated with a little gum-arabic 
and some juice of garlic. The gum ammoniac 
will not dissolve in water, so as to form a transpa- 
rent fluid, but produces a milky appearance : with 
the liquor thus prepared, draw with a pencil or 
write with a pen, on paper or vellum, the intended 
figure or letters for the gilding ; suffer the paper (o 
dry, and then, or any time afterwards, breathe on it 
till it be moistened, aud immediately lay leaves of 



/ 
WRITING. 379 

gold, or parts of leaves cut in the moBt advanta- 
geous manner, in order to save the gold, over the 
parts drawn or written upon, and press them gently 
to the paper, with a ball of cotton or soft leather : 
when the-paper becomes dry, which a short time or 
gentle heat, will soon effect, brush off with a soft 
pencil, or rub off by a fine linen rag, the redundant 
gold, which covered the parts between the lines of 
the drawing or writing, and the finest hair strokes of 
the pencil or pen, as well as the broader, will ap- 
pear perfectly gold. 

793. Simple method of copying lettersj without the 

use of a copying machine* 
Put a little sugar in common writing ink ; write 
with this on common sized paper as usual ; when a 
copy is required, unsized paper is taken, and light- 
ly moistened with a sponge. Apply the wet paper 
then to the writing, and a fiat iron, such as is used 
by laundresses, of a moderate beat, being lightly 
passed over the unsized paper, the counter-proof 
or copy is immediately produced. 

794. To make durable writing on paper » 

Disfolve gum-arabic in water, and add thereto 
ivory-black, extremely well ground, and write 
therewith. Acids cannot discharge this writing ; 
and if you wish to secure it against the steams of 
hot water, the writing may be covered with white 
of egg clarified. 

795. To preserve letters from being opened. 
Various ways have been contrived to open letters, 

sealed with wafers only, but the following compo- 
sition is perfectly secure : — Take fine powder of 
bean flour; add thereto white of egg, well whisked 
to a fine liquid ; make a paste from this mixture, of 
which put a little under the seajing place ; then 
close the two papers, and hold the part close to the 
steam arising from the spout of a tea-keU\&^'& V^^- 



380 WiftiTiNo. 

pot of boiling water, which will harden the cement, 
80 that it cannot be opened without tearing. 

796. To take out writing* 

When recently written, ink may be completely 
removed by the oxymuriatic acid, concentrated and 
in solution. The paper is to be washed over repeat- 
edly with the acid ; but it will be necessary after- 
wards to wash it also with lime water, for the pur- 
pose of neutralizing any acid that may be left on the 
paper, and which would considerably weaken it. 
But if the ink have been long written, it will have 
undergone such a change as to prevent the preced- 
ing process from taking effect. It ought therefore 
to be washed with liver of sulphur (sulpharet of 
ammonial before the oxymuriatic acid is applied. 
It may be washed with a hair pencil. 

797. Method of recovering the legibility of decayed 

zdrilings. 

The best method of restoring legibility to decay- 
cd writings is found upon experiment to be, by 
covering the letters with phlogisticated alkali, with 
the addition ofa diluted mineral acid ; upon the ap- 
plication of which, the letters will change very 
speedily to a deep blue colour, of great beauty and 
intensity. A solution ofprussiate of potash will 
also cause the letters to appear blue. To prevent 
the spreading of the colour, which, by blotting the 
parchment, detracts greatly from the legibility, the 
alkali should be put on (irst, and the diluted acid 
added upon it. The method found to answer best, 
has been to spread the alkali thin with a feather 
over the traces of the letters, and then to touch it, 
gently, as near upon or over the letters as can be 
done, with the diluted acid, by means ofa feather 
or a stick cut to a blunt point. Though the alkali 
should occasion no sensible change of colour, yet 



WRITING. 3Ut 

the moment the acid tomes upon it, every trace of 
a letter turns utonce to a fine blue, which soon ac- 
qi4re3 its full intensity, and is beyond comparison 
stronger than the colour of the original trace had 
bein. If, then, the corner of a bit of blotting pa* 
per he carefully and dexterously applied near the 
letters, so as to imbibe the superfluous liquor, the 
staining of the parchment may be in a great meas- 
ure avoided : for it is this superfluous liquor which, 
absorbing part of the colouring matter from the 
letters, becomes a dye to whatever it touches. Care 
must be taken not to bring the blotting paper in 
contact with the letters, because the colouring mat- 
ter is soft, whilst wet, and may easily be rubbed off. 
The acid chiefly employed has been the marine ; 
but both the vitriolic and nitrous succeed very well. 
They should be so far diluted as not to be in dan- 
ger of corroding the parchment; after which the 
degree of strength does not seem to be a matter of 
much nicety. 

798. To revive old writings zohich are much defaced. 

Boil gall nuts in wine ; then steep a sponge into the 
liquor, and pass it on the lines of the old writing ; 
by this method the letters, which were almost unde- 
cypherable, will appear as fresh as if newly donev 

799. To gild letters on vellum or paper. 

Letters written on vellum or paper, are gilded in 
three ways : in the first, a little size is mixed with 
the ink, and the letters are written as usual ; when 
they are dry, a slight degree of stickiness is pro- 
duced by breathing on them, upon which the gold 
leaf is immediately applied, and by a little pressure 
may be made to adhere with sufficient firmness^ — In 
the second method, some white lead or chalk is 
ground up with strong size, and the letters are 
made with this by means of a brush ; when the 



383 WRITING* 

mixture is almost dry, the gold leaf may be laid ou^ 
and afterwards burDisbed. The last method is to 
mix up some gold powder with size, and make ^le 
letters of this by means of a brush. 

«B00. To make pounce. 

Gum sandarac powdered and sifted very fine, will 
produce an excellent preventive to keep ink from 
linking in tbe paper after you have had occasion to 
scratch out any part of the writing. 

801. Another method. 

Cuttle fish bone, properly dried, one ounce ; 
best rosin, one ounce ; and the same quantity of 
burnt aium, well incorporated together, will make 
very good pounce, equal, if not superior, to any 
bought at the shops. 

802. Method of obtaining exact copies of inscrip- 

tions. 

The stone or other matter, in which the inscrip- 
tion is cut, is to be first well washed and dried ; 
then with printer's balls the surface is laid over 
with printing ink, in the same manner as is laid on 
types ; one or more sheets of paper, according to 
the liize of the inscription, previously damped, arc 
then laid over it, and the impression taken off by 
striking the paper with a clean ball, the hand, or a 
brush. 

Three or four copies should be taken in this man- 
ner, as the fourth is usually the most perfect. As 
the inscription will be reversed on the paper, it may 
be read off right, on the other side, by holding the 
papei^ against the light. If the inscription is in re- 
lievo, the letters will be black ; if in hollow, the 
letters will be white and the ground black. 



iaiSC£LLAN£OUS. 383 

CHAPTER XXXVIIl. 

MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS, 

Which were communicated too late to be inserted 
under the preceding Chapters* 



803. To make excellent Ink. 

Take a pound of the best Aleppo gails, half a 
pound of copperas, a quarter of a pound of gum- 
arabic, and a quarter of a pound of white sugar- 
candy. Bruise the galls, and beat the other ingre- 
dients fine ; and infuse them all in three quarts of 
white wine, or rain-water. Let this mixture stand 
hot by the fire three or four days ; and then put it 
on a slow fire so as to boil. Stir it frequently, and 
let it stand five or six hours, till one quarter of it 
be evaporated. When cold, strain it through a 
clean coarse piece of linen ; bottle, and keep it for 
use. 

The communicator of this good old receipt is con- 
vinced that much pains have been taken to ascer- 
tain* the due proportions of the' calls and copperas : 
for he has found that, on diminishing or increasing 
their relative quantities as above, the ink has al- 
ways been pale ; but this defect will sometimes bap- 
pen, if the materials be not of the best kind. The 
Jiuality of the paper written on will also make a dif- 
erence in the colour of the ink. 

The grand secret in preparing this ink, which 
will never change its colour, if properly attended to, 
though kept ever so long, consists in the keeping 
it free from mouldiness, which, in hot weather 
particularly, is apt to form upon the surface. The 
best way is, to put it into a large glass bottle, with 
a ground stopper, and to shake it frequently. If, 



384 MlSCELLANEOUb. 

from sudden heat of the weather, or neglecL lu 
shaking, the mouldiness should appear, eitner 
take it off, if in a very small quantity and easily re- 
moved, or otherwise let it accumulate till a thick 
crust be formed ; and then, with a piece of wood, 
or wire crooked at the end, take it off all at once* 
It is very usual to put ink into an earthen or stone 
jar, which is suspended to some door that is.fre* 
quently opened, in order that the ink may be sha- 
ken. But few doors are either regularly or suffi- 
ciently agitated for the pu^po8e of preventing^ the 
formation of the destructive vegetable substance or 
mouldiness ; and this, being once accumulated, and 
of course not seen in the jar, is shaken together 
with the ink, and the whole is spoiled. You might 
just as well put a quantity of rotten mushrooms into 
a bottle of ink, and expect that it should retain its 
virtue. It has been found that the bruised or pow- 
dered materials of this receipt for making ink, if 
infused in cold water and well strained, will answer 
the purpose, where it is difficult or inconvenient to 
heat them as before directed. If the ink be requir- 
ed to be more black and glossy than usual, increase 
with discretion the quantities of gum and sugarcan- 
dy : but too much of them will make the ink sticky \ 
and which should not be used, where the writing is 
made in any folding-book. 

804. Quicksilver. 

Tallow will take up quicksilver. Vinegar kills it. 

805. To revive a dull fire. 

Powdered nitre strewed on the fire, is the best 
bellows that can be used. 

806. Small'pox. 

In Dr. Lort's copy of " Mead de Variolis^'*^ was 
written, what was termed '^ A curious and infaU. 



MISCELLANfiOUS. ;386 

iible preventive against ever catching the Small 
Pox,'' as follows : — 

Two spoonfuls of red ochre, such as is used for 
marking sheep, infused in half a pint' of ale, and 
taken seven mornings successively, fasting. 

807. Against the blatia or cock-roaches. 

Seta glazed baking-dish, filled with small beer, 
sweetened with coarse brown sugar, in the place in- 
fested ; and place a board against it, as a bridge or 
ladder for the blatta to ascend. This is the best 
of all the remedies. 

808. Corns and warts. 

Apply soft browwpaper moistened with spittle. 
A few dressings wiliremove them. 

809. To destroy snails and slugs. 

A few turnips, sliced and laid on the borders of 
the garden they infest, will attract them in the even- 
ing. 

810. To prevent paper from sinking. 

If the paper used in superior editions of books 
and which sinks so as to prevent its being written 
on, be dipped in alum-water, it may be written oix.^ 
This practice was adopted by Peiresc. {See his 
life, p. 199.) 

811. To harden plaster of Paris easts. 

Wash them w^ll with a sponge dipped in alum- 
water. 

812. To change hair to a deep brown. 

A solution of the silver caustic in water is the 
foundation of all the nostrums for thispurpose. It 
must be well diluted before used. — Dr^ Modes'* 
Lectures. t\. 

2K ^ 



■^ 








9M mwimajmmifiUBu 

•9 

Biflmuth dissolved id t^itt f^irthji 
T&i^ tfidligliitfirar ft WUt^^ 

tK^refore bMii of f hem are safelj iobe^e4» 
Moj/es^ lectures. 

814* To detect coj^r in liquids. 

;$|iirit of ^artabom mixed with them^taiiif itbi|iv|| 
Uye; Tberafelre^teil ii tioi dried od cdppief^ mi, 
ntiymo of it f t not turnied blue by thiijniafili 
dider being pastea tliroaeb bra^ pott it 
by tfatt eiqperiment. — Ibidl 

Bid* To take off a gold ring ^king 4ight ok 9kjbm- 

Touch it with mercory, and it becomes' so brit* 
tie that a alight blow with a hammer will break itT- 

816. To detect the mixture of arsenic. 

A solution of blue vitriol dropped into any* liquid 
in which arsenic has been put willtum it green* 

817. To try the purity of spirits. 

^ee if the liquor will burn away without leaving 
any moisture behind. As spirit is much lighter than 
water, place a hollow ivory ball in it ; the deeper 
the ball sinks, the lighter the liquor, and conse- 
quently more spirituous. 

818. ' To raise a salad quickly. 

Steep lettuce-seed, mustard, crepes, &c. in aqua- 
vitae. Mix a little pigeon^s dung with some mouldy 
and powdered slacked lime. In forty-eight faamf 
the salad will be produced. 

819. * To destroy grubs. 

Cut a turf, and lay it with the grass dewAWMil -{ 
near the plant deitroyed by the grub, and it frfttttli'^ 
fracttbem. ''- 



MISCELLANEOUS;. 387 

320. Against bums and scalds. 

Plunge (he part scalded into cold water as soor 
as possrbte. Wet it with linen steeped in rectified 
^rit of common brandy. Poultices and oily appli** 
cations are to be avoided. 

821. , A corn plaster. 

One ounce of naval pitch, half an ounce of gal- 
banum, dissolved in vinegar, one scruple of ammo- 
nia, and one dram and. a half of diachylon, mixed 
together. — From La Forest 'UArt dt soigner Us 
Pieds.^ 

822. To keep off flits. 

Place camphor on or near what you wish to pro- 
tect from them. 

823. For preserving the nails. 

One ounce of oil of bitter almonds ; one dram 
of oil of tartar per deliquium ; one ounce of pre- 
pared crabVeyes. Mix up with essence of lemon to 
scent it. 

~La Forest recommends rubbing the nails with 
lemon as a detei^ent. 

324. For taking away superfluous hair. 

Quicksilver, two ounces ; yellow orpiment, one 
ounce ; starch, one ounce ; litharge, one ounce ; 
sift them through silk, and dilute them with soap 
and water till they become a paste. Anoint the 
part, and let it dry for five minutes ; then scratch 
off the hair with the nail. Wash immediately in 
warm water. — From La Forest ^DArt de soignet 
ks Pitds.^ 

825» To make phosphorus. 

Two third parts of quicklime (i, e. calcined oys- 
ter-sbells), and one third of flour o( btvEMftMk%^ v^v 



38d ^ 1I1SCSE.LANKOUS* 

into a crucible for ad boar^ and exposed to tbv^^ir 
for an hour, become phosphorus* 

B26. To discharge grease Jrom UeaiheTm ' -, 

The white of an egg applied to the spot, aiid dq* 
ed in tb« sun ; or to two table-spooofors of spirit 
of turpentine, add half an ounce of meaij potaU)# 
wiit\ some of the best Durham mustard. Apm 
tbi^ mixture to tbe iipot, and rub it off when dry* jL 
)itt1e vinegar added, revives, and is perKa^ WMJi 
efficacious* . . * • "^ - 



827. To prevent wormdsfrom mortifyi 

Sprinkle sugar on them. Tbe Turks wash freah 
wounds with wine, and sprinkle sugar on theiii* i 
4)bsttnate ulcers may be cured with sugar dissolved 
in a strong decoction of walo^t leaves* 

828. To discharge grease from paper. • " 

, Burn bones of sheep ; with the powder rub hfA 
sides of the spot ; and, putting white pieces of pa- 
pei on each side, lay the whole in a press* Repeat 
this process till the spot disappears. 

829. Substitute for Flax. 

Steep broom-twigs, or the former yearns brancbeS} 
(preferring the most vigorous shoots) for two or 
three weeks, more or iessj according to the heat of 
the season, in stagnant water; or boil them for an 
hour in water. This done, the flax separatea freely 
from the twigs ; and where there is not machioerjr 
for the purpose, it may easily be stripped off by 
children or others, when not quite dry, in tbe same 
manner as hemp is pulled from the stalks* When 
stripped from the twigs, the flax requires only to be 
well washed in cold water, then wrung and shaken 
well, and hung out to dry, previously to its. being i 
sani off to tbe paper-manufacturer, &c. — Professor I 
Oavy h|k.Jb»\eac\>«d %om^ olVv C^t the Rev. JamcK I 



MlS€tLAN£OUS* 389 

Hall (to whom we owe this valuable discovery,) 
who has also seen it spun. The same gentleman al- 
so observes, that the fibres of ail kinds of mallow, 
especially those of the malva syhestris, are particu- 
larly beautiful ; they are finer than camePs hair, to 
which they bear some resemblance, and there is no 
difficiHty in procuring them. 

What adds to the value of this discovery^ is, that 
the broom-twigs, or wood, after being clear of the 
flax, and st4lped for some in boiling water, become 
tough and beautifully white, and are worth, at a 
medium, from twelve to eighteen pence per pound, 
for making carpetbroomsy &c* 

830. Economical use of nutmegs. 

If a person begin to grate a nutmeg at the stalk 
end, it will prove hollow throughout ; whereas the 
same nutmeg grated from the other end, would have 
proved sound and solid to the last. This circum- 
stance may thus be accounted for : — The centre of 
a nutmeg consists of a number of fibres issuing from 
the stalk, and its continuation through the centre of 
the fruit, the other ends of which fibres, though 
closely surrounded and pressed by the fruit, do not 
adhere to it. When the stalk is grated away, those 
fibres having lost their hold, gradually drop out, 
and the nutmeg appears hollow: as more of the 
stalk is grated away, others drop out in succession, 
and the hollow continues through the whole nut. 
By bcgimiing at the contrary e«d, the fibres above- 
kpentioned are grated off at their core-end, with the 
stHHfounded fruit) and do not drop out and cause a 
hole^ 

831 . To ascertain the quality of nutmegs^ 

Oil of nutmegs being of great value, it 13 often 
extracted from thie nuts which are exposed for sale 
and which are thereby rendered of very HitJe v^Jue. 
To ascertain the quality of nutmegs, force ii ttv^va^- 

5Ka -^ 



» » - , — *K*S 



-. I- 



^90 MidOftLLAHSOV«. 

to tbem ; and if good, however dry 4btl]r tM^^lMii^ 
peer,' tfae oil will be seen oozing oot^l roimd wi 
pin, from the compreMion occasioned fii tibe'ettiu- 
roanding parts* ■ '. ..^' 

833. Tp increase the durability, ofliles^ 

Recent experiments have shewn that tilea tM? 
ggreatly improved^ and rendered impervious i^. wafer 
and frosty by being robbed over with tar before 
they are laid .on the roof. ^ '■ 

83S* To prevent brass vessels from contiracHikg' 
verdigris after feeing used* 

Instead of wiping tbem dry, it has been fooiidt 
thatbj constantly immersing them in water, they aiM. 
kept perfectly innoxious, and will remun {orjfi^re, 
fully as clean a^d nearly as bright as when they 
first came out of the bands of the workmenf 

834. Improved mode of preserving flowers. 

Take three pounds of roses, and rub them ibr 
two or three minutes with one pound of common 
salt* The flowers^ being bruised by the friction of 
the salt, yield their juic^ so that a paste is immedi- 
ately formed, which may be put in an earthen jar, 
or in a barrel, till filled, by repeating the same pro- 
cess. Then close it, and keep it in a cool place till 
wanted. When required to be distilled, this aro- 
matic paste is to be put into the body of the still, 
with twice its weight of water. Any season of the 
year will do for this operation. Hence it arisea, 
that all plaqts being well salted^ need only to be 
distilled when wanted, and may thus be used while 
all their medical virtues are in perfection. 

835. Vanherman^s incomparable and durable lohile 
paint for inside work only, which will dry and 
cease to smM within six hours. '* 

Add to a gattonot %^vtvVol V\x\^^xi>:\xi^^'m^^^ 



MtSCELt.AN£Ot7S« 301 

of frankincense^ Let it simmer over a clear fire, 
till dissolved ; then strain it, and bottle it for use. 
To a gallon of bleached linseed oil, add a quart of 
mixture, shake them well together, and bottle this 
also. Let any quantity of white lead be ground ye- 
ry fine with spirit of turpentine; then add to it a 
sufficient portion of the last tnixture, till it be found 
fit for laying oli. If, in working, it should grow 
thick, it must be thinned with spirit of turpentine. 
This is what painters call a flat or dead white, to 
distinguish it from common white paint, being only 
suitable for the very best intej-nal vvork, both on 
account of its superior delicacy and expense. 

836. Useful knife board. 

A common knife-board, covered with thick buff- 
leather, on which are put emery, one part, crocus 
martis^ three parts in very fine powder, mixed into 
a thick paste with a little lard or sweet oil, and 
spread on the leather about the thickness of a shil- 
ling, gives a far superi6r edge and polish to knives ; 
and will not wear the knife nearly so much as the 
common method of using brick-dust on a board. 

837. Chapped or sore lips 

May be healed by the frequent application of 

honey-water,andprotectingthemfromtheinfluence 
of cold air. 

838. J^ew mode of marking sheep^ zoithout injury to 

' » the wool. 

Mark on either side of the nose of the sheep, the 
initial of the owner^s name,^ and on the opposite 
side any number by which he may choose to desig- 
nate the particular sheep, by means of a small iron 
letter or figure, about an inch long^ which, being 
dipped in common oil colours, mixed with turpen- 
tine to dry them more readily^ \« ^Wt.^^^xx^^^^'^ 



dMeribjtdytsd will csntinue aatll tb( _ 
■uioa. Thfrpreceu is ea«]r, and wii) gm«Ltlw4M^ 
jaaal no^paiq.; tfaa oniks c«niiet be teM&tj-'iAfitiU 
ated, wiuch is not the can with tattoDiiig.ar.«Miw 



939. ' TapromoUlhi gnmth of hair. , 

Bliz eqaal parts of olive oil. and ejiirils of rdee- 
miy, and add a ftw drops of oil of nutmeg. If the 
bair be robbed evUry; night »ilb a little of this lini- 
metit, and the proportion be very gradually' aug- 
mented, it will apsver every pnrpo^ie of increasing 
ttie growth of hair, aaut^ inore enectually than can 
be attained bj any ofthe boasting empiTicil prepa- 
rations which are imposed on the credulous pur- 
chaser. 

8.40. Tofattm-tttrlnM at ikeif So tn Xor/olki 

The <|aaltty and size of the Norfolk tarkiea^iir 
abperior to those of any other part of the kingd'OMi 
They are fed almost entirely mtb buck-vrlnat, 
which, perhaps, may account for tneir excellenee, 
and are bred by almost every little farmer ia the 
county. When young, they demand perpetual al> 
tention,-and must be fed with alum, curds, and 
chopped onions ; and the expense attending their 
management and food can be compensated only 
where broods are tolerably successful, and the pri- 
ces high. When young, ihey should have a large 
proportion of common pepper cress mixed in tbeir 
food, or be allowed to pick in a bed of it. 

841. To judge of the totalher. 

If a person intends to ride any where in winter, 
and suspects it will rain, he may know by the fol> 
lowing observation eight hours before the raincnmea 
on ; and soresolvelo take a great coat with him, or 
otherwise escap<± it^ viz. Let him obsprve the lop 
«C tbe. mercury itil^«\u\MoW->At«nifi.\«c^%Bd ifi 



MISCELLANEOUS* 393 

rain be about to come, it will be indented or con- 
cave, otherwise^ convex or protuberant. But as the 
barometer id sometimes deceitful, the point from 
which the wind blows, and the appearance of the 
day Is more certain. 

842. Substitute for greastfor coach wheels^ <J"C. 

Mix one^ound of hog's lard with half a pound of 
black lead ; stir them well together, whilst melting 
over a slow fire. If the axles and bushes of the 
wheels be true, a carriage may safely be run one 
hundred, or one hundred and fifty miles, with once 
using the above composition. 

843. ^Excellent varnish for umbrellas^ <{rc. 

Great coats, and other articles much exposed to 
the weather, are rendered both sun and rain proof, 
by the following excellent varnish : Boil well toge« 
ther two pounds of turpentine, one pound of litharge 
in powder, and two or three pounds of linseed <»K 
When the article is bruited over with this varnish, 
it must be dried in the siin \ after which, the great- 
est hent will not aflect it. 



. .' 



' 1 B » 



in 



.'.i ■ 



ji 



INDEX. 



A Page^ 

ACCIDENTS, 10 prerent, by 

leaving pokers in the fire, 311 

Acid, Nitrous, process for prepar- 
ing, for extracting stains from 
tanned leather 
Acorn coAet 4o make. 
Agriculture, receipts relative to. 
Ague, cure for the 
Air, to purify bad and infectious 

in gardens, method of purifying 338 

Alabaster, to clean 163 

Alder, waste land advaBtageoosly 

planted with 
Ale, pleasant and cheap 
— — the uses of ground iTy in 
Aloes, the juiee of, may be ap* 

Slied to beneficial purposes 
im, to detect in bread 
Anderson, Dr. his method of keep- 
ing milk and butter ^ 
Angling, the sport of, improved 1^ 

attention to the dress 56 

. to prevent takuff cold while 55 

Animal food, method of preserving 

sweet 143. 4 *• 5 

Antidotes, to nosious substances 

»nd animals 3'75 

Animals, to preveat d^&th from the 

bite of venomous 376 

Ants, methods of destroying 51, 360,364 
Apples, method of preserving 184,18? 
Apple trees, rfimedy for the disease 

In 349 

■■ to destroy msects pre- 

judicial to 365 

Arms, to keep from rust 335 

Aromatic herbs, to preserve 188 

. • ■! ' Vinegar, to prepare 369, 330 
Arts, useful 58, tt$eq 

Arsenic, to detect 386 



331 

159 

35 

381 

143 



36 
85 

a. 

58 
153 

139 



Page 
Bark, to make an improved Unc- 

ture of 
Barley, fertilising steep for 
Barm, to make 

substitute for 



393 
41 
86 
ib. 



Bam floors, method of making du- 
rable 

earthei^ 



Beasts, method of .f reie'rving 
Bed clothes, hints relative to 
Beds, hints en warming 
damp, to detect 



Beef, to preserve good during a 
voyage to the West Indies 
— tea. to make 
Beer, to prevent growing flat 
ginger, to make 
spruce, 

table, to make excellent 
- to recover sour 

. pricked or sule, to f e- 



Asparagus, to render more produc- 

tite 
Asses* milk, artificial, to make 



B 



store 



substitute for 



353 
303 



39 
38 
136 
133 
146 
ib. 

144 

146 
88 
85 

148 
ib. 
88 

ib. 
148 
Bee hives, to make vinegar with 

the refuse of ^''5 

Bees, improved management of 146,147 
method of iirereasing the 

ti. 

ib. 

147 

83 

388 

358 

47 

191 

136 
98 
75 

137 
76 



quantity of honey 
— — to remove 

- mediod of preserving 
■ wax, to bleach 

or wasps, cure the sting of 



Beetles, to destroy 

Beets, to preserve during winter 

Birch tree wine, to make 

Birds. Sir Ashton Lever's method 

of preserving 

' ' Canary, to breed 
— ^-^ Catching 

to keep when just shot 



Balsamic vinegar, to make 869 

Baric, method of making new fl^w 
on old trees , 335 



Bird lime, to make the best 
Biscuit, to preserve from putrefac- 
tion 
Bitter, an excellent, for the sto- 
mach 
Blacking, receipts for making, 133.133 

balls; . •&• 

cakes. p_ »*• 

Black beetles, to destroy ^* ' S4$ 



153 
193 



paint, to make %. t\»ft»4 ^*^ 






BtMHUhto 

SIhI saimi. Kr npuiii 

ffMlw•.*a. 



Baaab Mllud af HRnlu ' "o „ ^ 

— — (DflkaetRMHgftui M ■■ ticelienlmtUioil oftsu-. 

BloAsBtec mn, n pHTui bstac >-'-'■ ="- =" '°™ " 

iiDipid b J nrij ■jirini' (toHi M* — 



(pifiti b. wb« the fHI u 



Bt)i (JfiBct. to est Ml CiiitMfc p-npsnliiin fur 

WKld^. tMthsi it gi'tllf Bwlt — - _— - Lo preicrii during 

— COVpDulloB ror filibD — """" 



Biiri. feaedy for dettci 
BgTldiiic 



I^Hj'-^w;; 









IJC 



INDEXi 



397 



Page 
Cement, Tvtirej.for joittiDg Ine- 
talt, glass, &e. 

blood, foF repaiiing cop>- 



]!» 



per boilers 

■■ excelleot. 



made oa the 
Cotswold bills 

to restore cast iron funap 



Pag« 
Coacb wheals, substiUie for grease 

for »W 

Coal mines, to repair roftds B«ar l'^ 
117]Coffee, remarks 00 1^'' 

— . virtues of ISt 

— - rrape s««ds«a substitute for 169 
— Its effects on the ooostita* 



112 



ces and pans 

to racist th« action of fire 



and water 
— ^— — to stop cracks in glass 

vessels 
Champagne, to make British 
Charcoal, to prevent the baneful 

effects of burning 

useful properties of 



117 
ib 
131 

276 
118 



tlOQ 



the seeds of flowers de Ittce, 



157 

159- 

ib. 

ib, 

ib. 

Tarkisb mode of preparing 158 

Cobs, to take impressions or casts 

59 



a snbstitate for 
— — to improte 

i - to make, from acorns 
■ ■ ■ " - valuable substitutes lor 



of 
Cherry tree gum, valaable proper* Cold, to prevent taking, while 

ties of 2071 angling 
Cheese, to colour 167 ■■■ lute, to prepete 
—i.— to make Stilton 166 '- " 



Chesnnti, horse, to extract starch 

from 
Chickens, to fatten, espcditioasly 
Chick weed, a substitute for spring 

spinage 
Children, to prevent eating food 

too quickly 
■ danger of their eating gilt 

gingerbread 
m ■ to facilitate 



mixture for a 



ID cutting 
their teeth 
Chilblains, to prevent breaking 
Children's heads, to destroy ver- 
min in 
Chimnies, method ef extinguish- 
ing fires in 

■ —■ to ewe NBokY 
-«-•—» to sweep witBout employ- 
ing children 

■ « to improve the £re places 



74 
170 

156 

ib 

164 

378 
984 

367 

981 
9S 

^8 



55 
lli 

939 
Colours, management of 30l, ei i€q. 
Compost, for dunghilll 35 

Contagion , to prevent 3C6, 969 

Copal varnish, preparations of 847 
Copying a print, method of 9lO 

Copper, in liquids, to detect ,366 

vessels, necessary hints ' 

312 
97 



to those who use 

Coral branches, artificial, to make 

Com, discovery relative to the 
preservation of 

— — to keep crows from 

— — to keep insects from, daring 
long vojrages 

— — to peserre in tacks 

Corks, improvements in, for pre- 
serving wine 

— floats method of making 

Corns, to prevent the growth of 



of 

China, cements for mending 

-— — ink, to make 

Chocolate, to make, from oecoa- 
nots 

Colic, in hortci, receipt for 

Churches, to preserve from dilapi- 
dation 

> prejudicial to live by the 



— — and warts, to remove 
Cottons, method of cleaning 

to render less combustible 



■" to dye a buff colour 



yards of 
Cuver, good for the 'scurvy 907, S8I(; 
Clothes, hint respecting, catching 

fire ISO, 131 

— to make portable balls, to 

remove spots from 3-}8 

to make water proof ' 1-29 

to preserve from moths ' 134 

to prevent the danger of 



the flames when on fire 



93 
J 19 
398 

Coart plaster, to make 
157 Coughs, receipt for 
980 Cows, parsnips productive of milk 
in 

— rules for milking 
— — to prevent contracting bad 
habits while milkine 
-- best method of feeding and 
managing 

great increase of milk, from 

sainfoin 

proper food for 

— additional produce of milk, 
how to gain 
Cramp, certain cure for the 



97 
965 



45 
44 

159 

46. 

150 

5S 
384 
384.385 
199 
933 
933 
984 
390 



t04i^vj>nt danger from wet lf.3 

Cloths, a water (e take the spoti 

out of 333 

-Clover, manure &« 



105 
138 

105 

{». 

104 
105 

ib. 

985 
919 
to preserve io leag voyages 901 
Crickets, to destroy 369 

to drive away "i *. tb. 



180 Cream, -substitute for 



35^rops, cuhare andaaaaMnest of 9^ 



398 



]NDEX« 



Page 
Crinaon, tt stain p&per or parcb- 

ment 913 

Crowa, to keep from com 43 

Cmat, to prevent the formation of 

in kettieaa 157 

Cucunibcra, new method of raiaing 355 
Curiositiea, rulea for collecting on 

aea voyap^ea 137 

Currier'a oili aobatitate for 71 

Carrant wine, to make 191 

Casbiosa, hinta relating to 133 

Cutlerj, to prevent poliahed tak- 
ing ruat 64 
Cider, to preaerre in bottlea 190 



P«ge 

Dry rot» the cauae and pr eventi«o 

of 338 

Ducka.garden cleared of vermin bj 303 

method of fattening |7l 

Dunghilla, compoat for 35 

Durabilit]r of tilea, to increase 9l 

Dye, liquid, for staining bone or 

wood of different colours 931 

<*— cotton, a buff colour, to 3i:3 

Dyeing, yellow or green* metliod 
of 394 

■ — leather gloves, ait of 3t3 



Dairy, proper temperature for 
Damp bed, to detect 

■ walla, method of curing 
Deafneaa, remediea for 
Decanters, to clean 

atopplea of, to remove 



137 
146 
91 
SB4 
163 
ISO 
378 
916 



£ 



Dentition, to facilitate 
Design, method of copying a 
Dilapidationa.to prevent in charchea 97 
Diaeaaea of cattle and aheep 1 If 

Diahea.impropcr to water plants in 344 
Dish covera, to clean ^ 161 

Distilling, aimple waters, expedi 

tioua method of ]41.r 
Dogs, to relieve tbe diatemper in 330 
to know whether mad or 



Ear, to attract earwiga out of the 383 
— to cure a pain in the H, 

£arth worma. to deatroy 369 

Karwiga, to destroy tb. 

^~— — to preaerve flowers finom 246 
Earthenware, a new ranlah far 35 1 
cement to join broken l|9 
— — barn floors, method of 
making . SB 

Economy, in thatching S7 

fuel 905 

tinder ft. 206 

candles sot 

Eau de luce, to make 3 n 

Edgings, to make S40 

boi, to cut tA. 



Dot 

-■ - to prevent the miachief ari- 
sing from the bite of a mad 

Dooiebtic economy 

Drains, method of preventing the 
disagreeable smell from bouse 

Down of geese, propeaties of, how 
ascertained 

to improve 

DrcTvned persona, method of reco- 
vering 

to 



ib. 

276! 



Eggs, to preserve, for a kength of 
time 161. 199,300 

Elder< a preservative for planta 
against insects and flies 49 

— wino, to make jftj 



143!£mbankments, to preveot miachief 

to sea 97 

96l£Dgravinga, to clean ^ 91(f 

JEasences and caacntial oils, to 
]72 make without the help of fire or 



render assistance to 
thorte in danger of being 
Drawing desk, to make a 
Drawings, to copy, with fixed ma- 
terials 
■ ■ . tracing paper for 

to transfer any impresaioo 

with vermilion 

method of taking off xb. 

— — metbod of setting pencil 

> to preaerve pencil or 



. ib. 

321 

320 
319 

316 
ib 



distillation 314. SIS 

Essential salt of lemons, to make 514 
Essence of malt, to extract 88 

Essence of flowers, to extract 314 

of soap, for shaving 31O 

Kver green hedges, to train 33 

Experiment with manores 36 

Eye, rules for preserving the sight 

of Q7l»0tf^. 



317 
318 
317 



chalk 



ib 
■ ' wash for preserving 3 1 8 

' to trace against tbe light 316 
' transparent paper for 315, 317 

Drink, for tbe summer, to make a 

pleasant 190 

Dry gilding, method of 63 

Drying oil. to prcpart 901 

Dry rod cure for 



to cure a bruise in the 
F 



375 



Farmers, useful hinta lo 9^ 

Farm offices I'fr. 

Fallow grounda, to employ to ad- 
vantage 35 
Feathers, method of clearing. 

from their animal oil ^ fO 

Feet, to prevent corns growing on 984 

Fence, making and manajfcmcot of 91 

Fenurnt. for making bread 154 

^^\i\¥\\\\*.\A^tk^v water 18-3.193 



INDEX. 



399 



Page 
Fire, hint respectiss women* s and 

cbUdrec^s clothet catching ISO 

— — method to escape from 333 

•x^ — to extricate horse ■ from ^ 931 
— — to prevent bajr stacks taking 40 
■— ' to stop on shipboard 934 

•—— to preserve wood front and 

from decay 94 

— — to prevent accideatf, by lear- 
- ing pokers in the ^ . ^'^ 

— — to render water efficacious in 

extinguishing 933 

— — dull, to revive 334 

——to prevent wood, linen, 4*c. 

catchuig ^ 933 

-— to extingnisb speedily 933 

— — arms, the necessity of precau- 
tion in loading 336 
— - bottle, to make the ^ 327 

— method of extinguishing in 
Chimntes 331 

— lute, to prepare ] 16 
— — places, to improve chimney 93 
-— works, improvements in mak 

ing 338 

Fish, to cure tainted 145 

— — to intoxicate 57 

-■■ to preserve in the Portu- 
guese manner 143 
Fishing, rules for 56 
— — — lines, to prevent the rot 



ting 



Mg 



easy method of dye- 



rods, to preserve 
to make cork floats 



for 



55 

ib 
53 
&5 
Flax, a rabstitule for 63, 388 

Fleas* remedy against 908 

FHcB, to destroy 968, 387 

Flint glass bottles, to clean 163 

Floors, method of making durable 

barn 38, 39 

Floor cloths, to clean 151 

Flour. t0 discover if adulterated 163 M 
M method of making, without 

154 



Page 
Foreign seeds, method of faeili- 

tatiqg the growth of 340 

Foot, method to recove* a violent 

sprain in the 387 

Forest trees, to promote the grow41» 
^f 934 

Frbst bitten vegetables, 4*0. (o re- 
cover 
Freexiog, to prevent water-pipes 

in winter 
Fruit, a method of preserving all 

the year 

— — te grow, during winter 

— — frosted, to recover 

ripe, to manage for a des- 



187 

ItO 

187 
346 

167 



aert 



188 
339 



nails on 



stains, to take out 
— trees, to cure, when infect- 
ed with an easterly blight 350 
bad effects of iron 

949 

— — — — — to destroy insects 
on 366, 367 

' ■ to improve, by at- 
tending to the soil 347 
' " ' Chinese method of 

4b. 

346 



propagating 
to 



prevent from be- 
ing damaged by spring frost 

or by hares or rab- 



bits 



grain 

Flower*, whan to plant annual and 
perennial 

t^^roove, in summer 
. |p I ■ to preserve from slugs 
-M^-— to preserve the seed of 
, method of preserving and 

extracting essences from 

to grow during winter 



344 



346 



Fines, cement for iron 
Fly fishing, rules for 
— blown meat, to purify 
"— water, to make 
— — in turnips, to prevent the 
Food, animal, method of preserv 
ing sweet 143, 144, 

most proper for milch cows 



314 
345 
116 
56 
145 
908 
51,53 



348 
growth of, to promote ib. 

351 

305 
311 



wall, method of pruning 



Fuel, eeooomy in 
Fumigation cakes, to make 
Fumigation powder, to make a ra* 

luabJe 
Furniture, varnish for 
Furs, to preserve 
—— methods of preserving from 

moths 

Furze, very beneficial as a winter 
food for horses 



145 
105 
Font rooms, to Aimigatc ?68 

■ ■ — ■ ' to purify the air of 143 



Oalls, a substitute for, in dyeing 
Game, method of preserving 
345|Oardens cleared of vermin by 
ib. da|ks 

Ga^e for a sore throat 
Garlic, useful properties of 
Gas-light, method of producing on 

a small scale 
Geese, method of fattening 
rules for plucking 
to improve the down of 
— — to ascertain the properties of 

eoose down 
Gilding, iron or steel, method of 

dry 

brass or silver, coopofi- 



tion for 
Gilt bnekles and toys, to clean 



968 
164 
198 

ib. 

109 



933 
143 

363 
990 
395 

997 
171 
172 
ib. 

ih. 
€l 
63 

^ib. 
\11 



400 



INDKX. 



164 

86 

150 

63 

1-21 

63 



Page 
Gilt gin»erbre«cU the danger •( 

children eating 
Ginger beer, to make 
Glass-stopples of smcUing-bottlefli 

bow loosened 
Glass, cement to mend broken 
-—-' process for painting on 
— — to cut 
— — to stop cracks in 
— — Globes, to silver 
Glasaer, to restore, vrben tarnished, 16? 
Glaziers, to prevent the effects of 

the poison of lead on 375 

Olovei, art of dyeing leather 322 

Gold, to clean 62 

.—— and Silver lace, to clean 163 

x— — to clean and restore its lus- 
tre 63, 136 

Shell, to make 62 

Ring, to take off from a finger 386 

Glue, an excellent 113 

-— ^ Lip, far joining paper, silk, or 

thin leather, 
--— common, usefal property of 
'"—parchment 
Gnats, to allevivte the pain occa> 

sioned by the sting of 388, 239 

Gooseberry caterpillars, to destroy 
the 

Vinegar, ta make 



Gums rules for preserving 979 

Gum, valuable properties of tht 

cherry-tree 901 

Gun-barrels, to brown 99ft 

GuQ-powder, to increase the force 

of 996 

———<—— to recover dama|^d t6. 



H 



114 

115 
114 



360 
174 



172 
207 

386 



71 



Coose-down, to asc>irtain the pro- 
perties of 
— — Grass, usefulness of 
■ ■ Ointment, to make 

— Q,uills, Dutch method of 

preparing, for writing 
Granaries, -poplar wood for the 
flooring: a preventive against the 
destruction of corn by weevils 
and insects 
Granaries, to destroy vermin in 
Grapes, to preserve 18-*i 

Wme, to make 

Seeds, a substitute for coffee 

Grass.striped.recommended for hay,H5 

Lands, to protect from pismires 5 1 

— ^ Rye, when to cot for hay 40 

Gravel walks, sure method of cur- 
ing 34 J 
©rcase-spots, method of discharg-* 
ing, from woolen cloths 339 

— to take from the 

leaves of bookf, paper, ^c 80, 328 
■ to extract from books 80 

to discharge from leather 38f. 

substitute for coerh wheels, 39^ 

Green, method of dyeing '2-iA 

to stain paper or parchment 3]3 

house, situation for, aid 

management of 238 

Grotto, economical method of 
formin<; and ornamenting a 



Hair, to increase the growth of S31, 391 

Hair, superfluous, to remove 387 

—-^ preparation of a liquid to con- 
vert red or light-coloured into % 
deep brown 331, S8S 

■ ■■ powder, to know whether 
adulterated with lime SSI 

■ to perfume A, 

Hall pavements, miiture for 
cleaning 169 

Hand, method to recover ft violent 
sprain in the 967 

■ to prevent ioconvenienee 

from the perspiration of the 179 

Hats, a varnish for straw and chip 197 

^— to prevent being spotted bj 
rain it. 

Hay, striped grass, reeonmended 
for 99 

— stacks, to prevent talcing fire 40 
tea, to make for calves |97 
virtues o^, for cattle 103 



Hazel nuts, to preserve for months IN 

. nut, the usefulness of in 

brewing MB 

Health, rules for preserving io 

winter 3HS 

Hedges, evergreen, to train 3J 

Hemp, a substitute for 63. iSg 

30 Herbs, to preserve St6 

to propagate 353 

and flowers, in summer to 
transplanted in the evening 2M5 
tea to make British 198 

Homassers M. cure for burns and 

scalds 281 

Honey, method of increasing the 

quantity of 146 

Hooker. Mrs. her composiflon for 

painting 900 

Hops, to extract the virtues of in 

84 




brewing 
Horn, to stain, to imitate tortoise 

shell 
Hornets, method of destroying 
Horsc-chcsnuts. method oicitract- 

in,? starch from 
■ utility of in bleach- 



ing 



Ground-i» y, use of, in ale 
Gmbs, to destroy 
Oxjtns, tincture fof the 



Horbcs, to extricate from firp 
■ to cure the colic io 

utility of carrol5 for 

utility of furze for 



97 
85 
^%A^o^\^^ * ^v*>^tk« ,ta prevent the disft- 



334 
968 



84 

331 
S90 
108 
109 

S09 



1NP£X. 



401 



Pttje 
ff ung»^v#ir«^r, (o make 317 

Hystericif, method of preTcntiDr 
the 261 



Impression, to transfer any, with 

vermilion 
■ of leavcii and plantSt 

method of takinj^ off 

on paper, from deaij^s 



made on stone 
Incense, cakes of. for perlhming &- 

Eartments, 
, an indelible writing 

China 

-— Indian^ substitute for 
to make 



317 

67 
338 

309 
301 
308 



Page 
:)6 



Land, eiperiment in manuring 

— waste, advantageouslj piab> 

ted with alder 
Lameness, remedy for the eore of 
Lamplighters, hints to 
Larks, method of catching 
Laurus, sasafras, and benzoin, to 

obtain aromatic oils from 
Lavender, to make quintessence of ib 
— — — — oil, sophistication of, to 

detect 67 

- water, to make 3J6 



26 

S85 

66 

77 

815 



Leather, process for preparing ni- 
troa& acid for extracting stains 
from tanned 331 

gloves, art of dyeing 332 



ib. 

•—of the aneients SOI 

— PrintiBf t to make 399 

Red 397 

— - Sympathetic 6r invitible 300 

— — to make a black japan S^7 

-~ escellent to make ib 

to prevent moulding 398 

— — to remove spots of 330, 833 

•— - permanent, for markiog lin* 

en 133. 399 

Infection, to prevent 368 

Insects, a varnish for preserving 353 

-■ methods of destroying those 

which attack fruit-trees 359, «i ttq. 

Irish salt butter, method of taking 

off the rank ne S8 1 55 

Iron,useful process relative to 64, tt teq. 
to prevent rusting 64, 166 

66 
61 
64 



ib. Leaves of trees, metboa of taking 



— to clear from rust 

— tojrild 
■ solder, 
— — lead-col||^d paint, to pre- 
serve and make 303 

Moulds, to take oat of linen 330 

— — Nails, bad effect* of, on fruit 

Uees, 249 

Ivory, to soften 65 

— — Leaves, for miniature pain- 
ters to prepare 313 
Ivy, ground, the uses of, in ale 83 



jMsamine pomatum, to make 314 



off impressions 

— when should be 
for pharmaceutical 



66 



collected 

purposes 
Leaf, to obtain the shape of a 
Leeches, observatious on 
Lemons, to keep 

to preserve, during a long 



voyage, the juice of 
— — — Juice, to purify 
Letters, to gild, on vellum or 



per 



to preserve from 



opened 

— to copy, without the use 



352 

67 

392 

185 

183 
173 
pa- 
378,381 
being 

tft. 



Kale, Scotch, eicellent for cattle 
Ketchup, walnut, to make 
Koumiss, to make 



Lace, gold and silver, to clean 
Lamps, to prevent the smoke of, 

be rag hurtful 
-— -> ccooomical wicks for 



103 
189 
373 



162 

313 
ib. 



of a copying machine 

Lever's Sir A. method of preserv- 
ing birds and beasts 136 

Light, by night, to make a conti- 
nual 191 

Limestone, method of ascertaining 
its properties 3g 

Linen, caution in washing 181 

>- to take mildews out of 174 

— to perfume 133 

— to ret>tore scorched 134 
' •-■ ■ — • permanent inks, for mtark- 

ing 131 

— ■ " the fumes of brimstone useful 

in removing spots or stains in 338 
— — to render less combustible 332 
— — to prevent, from taking fire ib. 
Linseed Oil, to whiten 67 

■ varnish, to prepare 353 

Lip-Salve to make si3 

— glue to make I13 

— chapped or sore, remedy for 391 
Lute, fire to prepare 1 16 
— — cold ib. 



M 



method of discovering 



Madness, 
canine 

Mahogany, balls for beautifying 
substitute for 



aii 



>» faroitare^ (a clt«3& 



SdO 
164 
70 
Via 



'102 INDEX. 

Page Pace 

Malt, to extract the csseoce of, for iNankecn-dye.to raake . ^ «t-}3 

brewing 88, Naples yellow, to prepare tlie S03 
spirit, method of giving it Noon, way of determining the ex- 

the flavour of good brandy I-ii; act time of f^g 

Malting, niceties in, to increase the 'Norfolk, mode of falteninf^ tarkies 391 

profit uf the inalstcr 83 Nose, to stop the bleeding of 291 

Manures, in general 85 Nutmegs, to judge the properties 

compost ib j of 339 

— experiment in manuring 1 economical use of ib. 

land 36 Nuts, Cashew, to make a whole- 

— — for clover 36 some food of *I08 

— — pigeon's dung useful as a ib. , Hazel, to preserve for months 188 

Marble, method of cleaning iCd Hazels the oaefulness of, in 

books or paper to 81: brewing 83 

Marie, method of ascertaining its I 

properties 38! O 

Mattrasses, hints relating to ISSi 

Meat, to purify fly-blown 143, 144 Oats, to keep from becoming moity 47 

to sweeten tainted 145 Oil, Aromatic, to obtaio from the 

to preserve in lone voyages ib. pellicle of the launis, saisafras. 

—— improved mode of salting 165 and benzoin 915 

-— to preserve in hot weather 144 Currier's, subatitote for 7| 

to preserve in the Portuguese ' — Sweet, to make ilj 

manner 143i Drying, to prepare lOl 

to preserve b}- treacle 144. of Lavender, to know if adul- 

Medals. to take off S9\ terated 67 

3Telon9, to prevent irregular ' Turpentine ^ ib. 

growth of 256 j— Linseed, to whiten ib. 

Irlezzotintoes, to make Si i ' paint, substitute for 903 

Mice, to prevent destroying early- , Paintings, to clean siQ 

prownpeas 5?, 257,^ varnish for 351 

31ilchcow<, p.dditional quantity of 'Onions, to obtain a good crop of 256 

milk b^ ktrtpins: in the house 105 Oranges to keep JU4 
grtat increase of milk Otto of Rose*, to make 3]7 

liom feeding witli sainfoin 104 Oxen, advantages of ploughing wiih 33 

— — — most proper food for 105' 

■'lilk, to make .'irtificial asses' '202 P 

Human, substitute for 201 ! 

10 take the taste of the turnip Paint, cheap for weather boards S^.$04 

off 138, 156' oil, substitute for 301 

to keep 201 bluck, to make a cheap 303 

to make old man's ib i Brown to make a ib. 

of Roses, to make 314 Milk-white, to make a rood 390 

MiikiniT of cows, directions for 138' Transparent, lo judge of 312 

Mildew, to take out of linen 174 

Mites or weevils, method of des- 
troying, in granaries 



Lead- oolouied, to make & 



to prestr»e Iron 30* 
to take the smell off from 

Mi'lasisfS, rendered fit for usins in- [ rooms lc6 



*o 



Vanherman's, will dry. 



and erase to smell in six hours S9(> 
Painters, to j-r.-ttnt the effects oi" 
the pui«on of lead on '27<i 



fclead ot su^^ar 102 

Mos*. to dfstroy, on trees 249 

Moths, preveaiivos against the ra- 

\ ages of the liS.lSl 

Moiirninsr-buckles, to make blue Sy P^»ntiHg. Mrs. Hooker's compost- 
Mouse-trap, a never failing 3M tion for 30? 

Mum, to make li>0 rooms, rails, <$-c. din-o- 

Muslirooms, lo produce 25b ticns for f''! 

Mutton to preserve good, during a ! ■ ■ proc*^!; for, on glass 'J.'w 

voyage to the West Indies 14-i; ; Oil to clean jlo 

iF;tlin^, a composition for pre*i-rv- 
N ■ ing I' . 

'Paper, to render le*.* conibuNu!il< ■JIJ 

N&il>, bad effects of. on fruit trees 24^^ hangings, method of •• • ...>■ 

human ti> preserve 387, ing ; 



INDEX. 



403 



Paper, to gild letters on 
— — — or Parchmentt 



to 



Page I 
379,381 
»tain 



Payc 



crimson 



green 



yellow 



fvout sinking 



grease from 
Parchment Glue, to make 



to stain 

td stain 

to prevent 

to extract 



313 

ib 

ib. 

385 

388 



Plants, to preaerve the colour of the 
petal:! of 61 



to air in rooms 
to preserve the seeds of 



those in a stale of vegetation 
to take impressions of 



Plated goods, to clean 

to make powder for 



Plaster casts or models, to varnish 
— — — — — to harden 

figures, to bronze 



111 



Parsley, sown with rape-ieed, a 
preservative against tne rcsp in 
sheep 

Parsoipi* productive of milk in 
cows, 
■\ ■■^OprMTve during winter 47 



113, IHJPloughiDg with Oxen.great advan- 
tage of 
Poison of the deadly night shade, 
cure for the 

of lead, to painters, to pre- 



106 



vpnt the ill effects of 

to counteract the effects of 



Pokers, improperly left in the fire 
Polished Iron Stoves, to clean 

metal, to keep from rust 



Paste or foodi for singing birds . to 
make 315 

■~-~> boek binder's strong 81 

to make patent 1 IS] Poroado-divine, to malce 

Patterns for working muslin, to* j Ponds, method of draining in level 

313| ground 

163 -■ to keep free from weeds 

386 Pomatum, to make both hard Mid 



stencil 

Pavement, miiture for cleaning 

Pearl white 

Peas, advantage of sowing, in cir- 
cles, 

— — great -adrantBge gained by 
the cultivation of the everlast- 
ing, as a crop for cattle, 

-— to prevent roiec destroying 
early sown 52,i!bl 

Pencil and Chalk drawings, to 
preserve 

- Drawings, method of set- 



338 

339 
66 

m 

306 
350 

385 
68 

33 

277 

375 
277 
311 
166 
64 
319 

31 
30 



356 



103 



317 



soft Sl4» 319 

Poplar wood, virtues of, for floor- 
ing of granaries 
Poppy, to make sweet oil from 
useful properties of 



SO 
173 
296 

383 



ting 

Pepper, des«ription of, and to 
m»kc Cayenne 

PcrftimuB, preparation, itc. of 

Perspirntion of the bands, incon- 
%enienue of, to prevent 

Petals of plants, to preserve the 
colour of 

Pewter, to clean 

Phantasmagoria, to make transpa- 
rent screens for 

Phosphorus, tu make 

Bottles to make 



318 

254 
313 

173 



Porter Plaster, for bruises, 
Portuguese mode of preserving 

fish and meat, 143 

Potatoes, instructions for raising 44 
— - method of preserving 186,187 

to make bread from J53 

■ ■ ■ to rcstoivB when frost- 



bitten 



to make sice from 



Poultry, to fatten 
■ new method 



of 



rearing 
167, 



61 Pounce, to make 
161 Powder, to make a valuable fumi- 
gation 

339' magazine, to lessen the 

38di ill effects of humidity to 
337 338: Prim rose- vinegar, to make 



— Jnateh-bottlc, to make 2i7 Printing ink, to make 

— Pencil, to make ib [Prints or books, method of clean- 



Pigoon's dung, utility of. rs manure 35 ing dirtv 
■ method of Vattcniog, see 

Poultry. 
Pigs, profitable way of fattening, 104 
Pits, to purify the muddy water of 179 
Pismires, to prevent the increase 

of, in grass landK, 5 1 

Plantations, method of preventing 

hares and rabbits from barking 348 
Plants, preservation of succulent 187] 
preserved from insects and 



ptctuics' or drawings, to 
take a copy of instantly, 
Privies, to prevent disagreeable 

smells from 
Pruning of Wall- Fruit, 
Vines, 



flies by the application of older 49! Putty, to makw 

■ improper to be watered in j 
difhe& 344 



Punch, to make excellent 
Puiily of spirits, to try 
Putrefaction, tQ preserve biscuit 
from 



186 
113 
167 

170 

102 

368 

335 
^76 

399 

310 

tb. 

96 
361 
262 
190 

sss 

15 i 
30J 



au'icluil.'.r. * °' """" 

-' -*'ku sake liiil>fn>ur»r£: 






IUillibr% Ditlhad of eutli'iling ss 
JIUI Dr. Tijlnt'imcUHJuf dn- 
— - tbj i>th«r TCTmfa, nribgd of 



when ndtciinllr rilia. Hi 13 















INDEX. 



405 



Silk niockinga, to clean, 

— — worms, the outiide woof of, 
&n excellent st^j^tic 

Silver, composition for gilding 

■ » goods, to clean 

Stl%-ering, art of 

Simple waters, method of distil- 
ling 

Size, to make from potatoes 
, Sky rc^ckets, to make 

Slugs, to prevent getting into fruit 
trees 

Sleop, to promote, 

Smallpox 
• SDiearingt in]W0Tes the wool of 
^ sheep 

Smells, diMgrseable, in house 
drains, nntSod of preventing 

. in newlj painted rooms* to 

remove. 



Page 
134 



390 



141 

lis 

237 

385 
366 
384 

no 

96 



Smelling bottle, to make an excel- 

lent 313 

■ stopplea of. to 

loosen l&OjTable beer, substitute for 

Smut in wLeat, preventives of 4l| to make eicellent 

Snails, todestroj 366, 385 Tables, to clean mahogany 



386 
166 

7a 

559 



Page 
Stings of bees, gfnats, er wasps, re- 
medies for 
Stone floors, artificial, to construct 
63 Stores, method of cleaning 
l26;Straw, to bleach 
63 Strawberries, directions for mana- 
ging in summer 
Strawberry plants, to preserve 

from the heat of the sun '»£• 

Stone stairs, mixture for cleaning 163 
Striped gras«>,recommcnded for nay 39 
Stuchum. or perpetual ink, to make 301 
Styptics to stop bleeding 390 

Sugar of lead, tc detect in wine . 193 
Sulphur, use of, for destroying m- 

seets.drc. 49 

Summer, a pleasant drink for the 190 

Son flower, virtues of the 307, 3*18 

Swedish method of raising turkies 170 

1 166 Swords, to make blue, 



59 



Soap, a liquid wnicb ma^jr b« used 

instead of solutions of it 
— — essence of, for shaving 
— — to make Jamaica vegetable 
-— • substitute for 
— — to make genuine Windsor 
— — to make Lady Derby's 
Sore lips, remedy for 
— — throat, (o core a 

■ ■ a drink tor a 
.^.— — -— gargle for 
Sophistication of oils, to detect 
Spectacles, rules for oboice of 
Spider, to destroy the red 
Spirits, to improve lli4 taste and 

smell of comoKMi 
. dsinger of potting in shoes 

or boots, 
— to trj tbeir purity, 
Spiritnovs lienors, to cure bad fla- 

voarof 
SpoU or stains, receipt for remov- 
ing 80, 338, 333 
Sprains, remedy for 387 
Spruce beer, to make I48 
Spurge, useful properties of the 

red 314 

Stage coache«,hints for ventilating 367 
Stains for the hair 331, 333 

Starch, to extract from horse-ches 

nuts 
Steel, method of cleaning 
.. to prevent rusting, 

■ method of cleaning rusty 
art of gilding 



72 
310 
197 
195 
319 
197 
991 
389 
390 
lb 

67 
370 
366 

140 

35 

386 

140 



Steeps for wheat 

— ^— for fertiJfxiog wheat, ^. 

StUtco Qh§9»tt tofoake 



7-^ 
166 
64 
165 
61 
41 
ih. 



Tainted fish, to cure 

Tar water, useful in expanding the 

lungs 
Tartar, to remove from the Cecth 
Taylor, Dr. his method of destroy- 

ii^f rats 

hismethoAof ascertaui- 



14% 

85 
161 
143 

367 

280 

323 



iag the properties oT marie, dec. 38 
Teams, and their management 33, 34 
Tea, Britbh, a substitute for for- 
eign 193 
'— hay, virtues of, for cattle 103, 107 
>— beef, to make, hq 

— British herb, to make i9g 

— kettles, to prevent the forma- 
tion of crust in 157 

— — urns, polished, preferable to 

varnished S09 

Teeth, charcoal good for cleaning 144 



ting 



rules for preserving 

to remove tartar from the 

to facilitate children in cut- 

and gums, tincture for the 



279 
^SO 

278 
3C0 
137 



Temperature proper, for a dairy 
Thatching.to effect a saving in the 

article of 37 

Thirst, to prevent, at sea, in casts 

of emergency 193 

Thunder powder, to make 339 

Tiles, to increase *fae durability of, 

for covering buildings 91, 390 

Tiling, economical method of 9i 

Timber, cure for the dry rot in 338 



— method of trying the good 
I of, for i\\\^ Wi\dk\u;^« vkVi 



ness 

in tVie aiMiuaV aXNvKuw^ 



VkVt^ 



vVi. 



N 1 



406 



INDEV. 



330 
206 



Page 
Timber, ^rcon . to season and rea- 
der fit for use 
Tinder, economy|in 
Toast and water, to make, and ad- 
vantage s of 
Tobacco, the great utilitj of 
Tooth ache, to prevrnt 

powders, to make, 



VAgt 



Tovji, gilt, to clean 

Tracing paper, method of using 

Transparent colours for painting, 
to judge of 
■ ■ screens, to make 

■ paper, for drawing, 
to make, 

Treacle, to preserve meat with 

Trees, composition for healing 
wounds in 
■ . economical use of roots of 

the leaves of, to be col- 
lected for pharmaceutical pur- 
poses 

the roots of fir and pine 

yield pitch and tar 

to avoid obstruction in the 

growth of forest 

" -— to cause a new bark to 
grow on old 

. useful properties of their 

TOOH 

suckers, superfluous, to be 



jVanherman's paint, to iry aod 
I cease to smell within fix hours 

1SI Vapours, notious, in welli, to re- 

S63 move 

279' garlic drives away 

observations on prepar- 



230 Varnish, 

137; log and using 

216; with spirit of wine 

S12| 
339! 

„s! 

144 

SS5 
314 



j Varnish, colourless, of mastic and 
aandrac 

for violins and musical in- 



390 

an 

S8S 

343 
344 



strurnents 



262 



observations on iplril 
on oil 
black japan 

■ common 
> with turpentine 

elastic gam 

■ amber 



■ft. 
345 

S4d 

34b 

tb. 

ib. 

ih. S4» 

350 



314! dais 



for drawings and prints ib. 356 
for plaster casts or me- 



334, 
335 



214 



350 
356 
357 



to J'^Mroy moss on 

to increase the srcwth 



lomovcil 249, 

to cure the canker in 250 - 

to destroy caterpillars on 50, 

51,360 
249 
of 248 1 
334: 

to prevent slugs getting into ' 

trail 366, 385 

to propagate 247 1 

white-washing recommond- 



•>J for the trunks ol 
'^'ub butter, method of curing 
Turkey-carpets, method of clean- 



334- 
155- 



for brass 
— ^— Chinese 

■ to prevent the solar rayt 
passing through windows ib. 

seed lac i5. 

shell lac .«. 

• a black, for staw hats ]27 

■ excellent, for umbrellas S;*3 

for earthenware 55 1 

' for e tigra v c r» ; ^ . 

■*— for furniture iSi.Si'i 

— ^— for oil paintings 3b 4 

for preserving insects 33j 

for pales 3=>4 

for toilet boxes, ^ns, A-c . S3l 

prci>aration of copal 347, j-l«J. 

35J 

to make gold 345. S4T. frS 

to make white ?o2 

to prepare linseed oil S53 



in^ 



Rhubarb, method of culti- 
vating and curing, from the 



I Vegetables, to restore, when frokt 
l6Si bitten IS7 

j Vellum, to gild letters on 3V1 



Velvet, method of Uking wax out 
!>eed 260, 26 Ij of 330 

TurkiLi, to fatten, according to the to raise ttio surface or piic 



Norlolk plan 39: 

T'.^rnipf , proper *oil for the cultiva- 

■Jon of 360 

to destroy the fly, dec. in 51 

— — — to -reserve from frost 



to protect them from the \ from 



of 
Vonomon? animal*, to pr<voi»t 

denlh from the bite of 
Ventilators foricoms 

blue colour prepare il 



47. 4f j Verdisjris, 



k.Ug 



ajI- 



Avibsiilute for 



o.i: 



V 



t^mbrellae, oi.cc\»»:?ii vvinuA. Ua 

L'lt.'llJ Mis 



j ViTJuioe., to make 

• Vornsin. method of destroying 

I to destroy in cltildrcn' 



V^ 



353 



2" I 
V6 



2-.-!« 
174 



TiDCfu. lo mtkt bdiiBlc ud u 



~ •.Ihttblnt 1 

TiDi»,iiivanuiD<eiDfihe1»Tei 

Wtll-rnjli, mellud of pnnrriof 



cffonu"^ •«£°a™t "' 



of k'mc"'" "" * ""sw! 

sf rlvtn »nilpiu,loi>urify 

ifai mJJ* ISO, 

— — - p™» clolb, w m^^.^^ ^^ 

_ to brfiarvB from puirof.c-' 

!° ,7,cm^,C'frtrr!n ip 



riliDlllilbim ArBf ^31 



fram tile It 

Wolli.- to dlipena the ooiiwi •«- 

VhcTt, npiiiDTFdinetbodD/tgw- 

to prt.tnl the iinul IS .1 

Hmr. 10 JuJgf pf Ibe qailit]' 

of _ J! 

unui isi.i! 



408 



INDEX. 



Page 
Wool of sbeep, improved hj 

tmeftring 110 

Wooieo-cloth. method of discharj^ 

ing grease spots from 319 

«. to prevent the rava- 

get of moths in 

method of cleaning 



staffs, to bleach 

to render water-proof 



138 
139 
78 
139 
370 Te 



Worms, to destroy in gau-dens 

.1 in the human body, to core 291 

Wounds, to prevent from mortify- 

ing S88 

■ in trees, compo»ition for 

healing 351 

Wren, insects destroyed by the S7€ 
Writing, method of recovering de 

cayed 380 

secret methods of 876, 377 

■ to make durable 3T9 



Page 

Writing, to revive old 981 

with different colours on 

378 



the same paper 



■ to write In the dark 

• ornamental 

• to take out 



ib. 

ib. 

S80 



ast. to make 8A 
— — to make artificial VI 
to maJle in theTurkisb man- 
ner ih, 
— ^ method of preserving ik. 
sobstitntes for, 8C IT* 149, 1S4 



Yellow, method of dyeiay 

to prepare the Naples 905 

— - to stam paper or parch- 
ment' 913 



r 

c 



^ 



^ -. . 



\'- 



,— ^ 



