THE NEW 

FAMILY RECEIPT-BOOK, 

CONTAINING EIGHT HUNDRED 

TRULY VALUABLE RECEIPTS • 

In various Branches of 

Selected from 
THE WORKS OF BRITISH AND FOREIGN WRITERS, 

OF UNQUESTIONABLE EXPERIENCE AND AUTHORITY, 

And from 

• HE ATTESTED COMMUNICATIONS OP SCIENTIFIC FRIENPr;, 



*' What lookest thou ? 

GOOD LESSONS FOR THEE, AND THY WIFE 

Then keep them in memory fast, 

To help as a comfort to Life." Tusser. 



A NEW EDITIOx\, CORRECTED, 



NEW-HAVEN : 

PUBLISHED BY HOWE & SPALDING, AND SAMUEL WADJ* 



WORTH. 



1819. 



"^■^ 



V 



5^ 






*- 7^» 



^•"-■i K I I I Ml "^ 



\5>r! 



.^. H. JWa?% Sf Co, Printers, 



Triffi'l^ 



THE Collection of Domestic Receipts 
now presented to the public could not have 
been formed in any age but the present. 
The wisdom of this age has been to bring 
science from her heights down to the practi- 
cal knowledge of everj-day concerns ; and 
the number of its inventions and discoveries 
have kept pace with the increasing wants of 
man. Of the past we preserve what expe- 
rience has sanctioned, and what improve- 
ment has rendered more perfect ; but we can 
add much more from our own stores. Sci- 
entific men, in the present day, vvho choose 
to be useful as wellas celebrated, have stu- 
diouslv noticed facts, and formed discove- 
rios which can only be appreciated in the do- 
mestic circle ; they have written such Re- 
ceipts with the zeal which is felt by a good 
housewife — an honest farmer — an ingenious 



ir» PREFACE 

mechanic — and the various artizans of useful 
and ornamental trades. 

The Editor af this Collection, at a verj dis- 
tant periody had amassed for his private use 
*a iiutTiber of practical Receipts ; but of late, 
the rapid diffusion of new discoveries, au- 
thenticated by the most respectable, names, 
has been such, that his collection grew eve- 
ry day in bulk and in value. He was proud 
to see^ in a Family Receipt-Bookj the names 
of persons eminent for their science. His 
Collection was further augmented by MSS* 
which he had purchased ; and he is particu- 
larly obliged by the advice and aid he has 
derived from the much-respected Secretary 
of the Society of Arts, Manufactures, and. 
Commerce. 

The popular treatise on" Domestic Cook- 
ery," that admirable introduction to the sci- 
ence, which Milton calls *' household good," 
naturally connected itself in the Editor's 
mind, with this volume, to complete tha 
economy of every domestic establishment. 
The idea of its publication arises merely from 
its obvious utility, and the value of the ma- 
terials which compose the Collection. Of 
more than Eight Hundred Receipts, not one. 



PREFACE. V. 

has been admittedj but wMch has either 
been experienced by himself or sanctioned 
by the recommendation of friends, or can be 
authenticated by a respectable name. 

The general usefuhiess of this Work will 
probably recommend it to the favour and in- 
dulgence of its readers ; but the Editor and 
Publisher cannot relinquish a hope, that in» 
genious persons may be inclined to assist its 
improvement, by correcting any article 
which may be found to fail, dr by suggesting 
a better one, and by the communication of 
new Receipts of real value. 

The present Collection has been methodi- 
cally arranged ; so that, by the aid of the 
Analytical Table of Contents and copious 
Index (which are subjoined,) the reader may 
easily refer to any particular article. 

We conclude this Preface with the plain 
homely words of our honest predecessor, the 
venerable Tusser, in his " Five Hundred . 
Points of Good Husbandry." 

" What lookest Ihnu ? speak at the last ? 

GOOD LESSONS FOR THEE, AND THY WIFE ? 

Then keep- them in memory fast, 
Tq hoip as a comfort to Life," 



A ^ 



Table of the Coutewts 



OF THIS 



VOLUME. 



CHAPTER l.-^AGRICULTURE. 

Page, 

Sect. I. — Management, 4*c. of the Soil, 37 

Method of employing fallow grounds to advantage, ib. 

Advantage of planting waste-lands with alder, 38 
To prevent much mischief to sea embankments, or 

those of rivers, SO 

Sect. H.^—Fai-m- Offices,- ib. 

Economy in thatching, ib* 

Curious mode of making earthen barn-floors, 40 

To make durable barn-floors, 41 

V^irtues of popJar wood for flooring graftaries, 42 

Sf.ct. III. — Water, ib. 

Easy method of obtaining water in almost any situation, ib. 
To keep ponds and artificial pieces of water free from 

weeds, ib. 

Method. of draining ponds in level grounds, 43 

Sect. IV. — Fences, ib^ 

To make a quickset hedge or fence, ib. 

To train evergreen and other hedges, 44 

Sect. V. — Teams, 45 

Great advantage of ploughing with oxen instead of 

horses, ib. 

Useful hints relative to carters and teams of oxen, 46 



Page. 

Sect. VJ. — Mdnm-es. 47 

Manure for clover, ib. 

Utility of pidgeon's dung as a manure, ib. 

Composts far dunghills, ih. 

Experiment in manuring land, 4g 
Dr. Taylor's method of ascertaining, the qualities of marl 

&c. for agricultural purposes, 50 

Sect. Vl\.— Culture, ^c. of Crops. . 51 

Easy method of discovering whether seeds are ripe, ib. 

To preserve seeds, when sown, from vermin, ib. 

Striped grass recommended for hay, ib. 

When to cut rye-gcass for hay, 52 

To prevent hay-sta&ks from taking lire, ib. 

Methods of preventing smut in wheat, 53 

Steeps for wh-eat, barley, &c. ib. 

Approved methods of sowing wheat to advantage, 54 

Utility of sowing buck- wheat, 55 

To keep crows from corn, ib. 

Proper soil for culture of turnips, -56 

Instructions for raising potatoes to advantage, ib. 

I*;reparation for carrots and other winged seeds, . 5T 

Sect. V'IIT. — Presei'vaiioh of Corn and Vegetables, ib. 

Important discovery relative to the preservation of corn, ib. 

To preserve corn in stacks, 58 

To preserve oats fiom being musty, 59 

To destroy mites or weevils in granaries, ib. 

To preserve carrots, parsnips and beets, ail the winter, ib. 

To preserve turnips from frost, , CO 

Sect. IX. — Protection of growing Crops from 

the Devastation of^ Vermin^ 61 . 

Good effects of elder in preserving plants Kom flies and 

insects, ib. 

Use of sulphur in destroying insects on plants, and its 

benefit for vegetation, ib. 

To stop the ravages of caterpillars on slirubs and veg- 
etables, C2 

To prevent the increase of pismires m grass-lands, new- 
ly laid down, 63 

T^iquor to destroy caterpillars and other insects, ib. 

To destroy ants,. ib. 



Page. 

To prev«Mit .the fly in turnips, 6:5 

To prevent the destruction of field-turnips by slugs, ib. 
For preventing flies from destroying. the seedling leaves 

of turnips, &tc. 61" 

To prevent mice from destroying early sown pea«, ib. 

Sect. X. — JVeeds. 

Usefulness of mowing, 6jr 

CHAPTER It— A^yGLLVG—iysHUVG. ih. 

To preserve fishing rods, ib. 

To make quill-floats for fishing, 60 

Improved cork floats for fishing, 67 

Easy method of dying fishing lines, ift. 

To prevent fishing lines from rotting, %b. 

To }>revent taking cold while angling, i^. 
To improve the sport of angli«g, by attention to the 

dress, 68 

Rules for fly-fishing, {b. 

To intoxicate and take fish, 60 

CHAPTER III.— USEFUL ARTS. 70 

Beneficial purposes to which the juice of aloes may be 

applied, ib. 
Td bronze plaster figures, ib. 
To blue mourning buckles, swords, Sec. 71 
Composition to take off casts of medals, ib. 
Method of sweeping ciiimnies, without employing chil- 
dren, ib. 
To clean feathers from animal oil, 72 
To preserve the natural coicur in petals of dried flowers, 73 
Art of gilding iron or steel, ?6, 
Method of dry gilding, 74 
Composition for gilding brass or silver, ib^ 
To make shell-gold, ?^3 
To clean gold, and restore its lustre, 77;. 
*X!o silver glass globes, 70 
To cut glass, ih. 
Substitute for hemp and flax, il. 
To braze or solder pieces of iron, 70 
Various methods of preserving iron and steel from ruat, tfr. 
To soften ivory and bones, 77 
Useful hints to lamplighter^, 7ic 



Pagt. 
Improved method of taking off impressions of kaves, 

plants, 8ic. 7'8 

To obtain the true shape and fibres of a leaf, 79 

To whiten linseed oil, ib 

To detect adulterations in lavender and all essential oils, ih 
To determine the exact time of noon, and to obtain a 

meridian line on a small scale, 80 
German method of making elm and maple wood resemr 

ble mahoganj^, <?! 

Substitute for mahogany, 8'2 

To clarify and harden quills, 83 

Dutch method of preparing quills for "writing, ih. 

Substitute for curriers oil, ih. 

To repair roads near coal-mines, 84 

Substitute for soap, ib. 

To extract starch from horse'chesnuts, 86 

To dissolve wax in water, ib. 

To make wafers, .87 

CHAPTER IV.— BIRD CATCHIJVG, ib. 

To make and use the best sort of bird-lime, ib. 

Experienced, method of catching larks^ . 89 

C H AFTER y.—BLEA CHLYG... 00 

Method of bleaching straw, ib. 

Efficacy of horse-chesnutsin bleaching, ib. 

To bleach bees'- wax, 94 

CHAPTER VL~BOOKS. 9^ 

To extract grease from the leaves of books, ih.. 

Blethod of cleaning dirty prints or books, ib. 

To make book-hinders paste, 93 

To marble books or j)aper, ib. 

OEAFTER Vn.—BREJrWG AXD MAXAGEME.VT 

OF MALT LiqUORS. 94 

Precautions and rules to be observed in mailing, . ib. 

To extract the virtue of hops in brewing, 96 

Cheap and easy method of brewing, ib. 

Excellent and wholesome table-beer. 97 

Use of ground ivy in ale. ib. 

To make gingor-heer, ifi. 



COJCTENtS. XV 



Page 



To make yea&t, or barin, 98 

Substitute for yeast, ih. 

Turkish manner of making yeast, 90 

Easy method of preserving yeast, ih. 

To make artificial yeast, ib. 

Usefulness of the hazel-nut in brewing; 100 

To extract the essence of malt for brewings ih. 

To -prevent beer from growing flat, ib. 

To recover sour or stale beer, ib. 

CHAPTER Ym.—BiyiLDLYG. ih. 

Artificial stone floors and coverings for, houses, ih. 

To cure damp walls, 103 

To increase the durability of tiles, ih. 

Economical method of using tiles, 105 
To improve chimnry fire-places, and augment the heat, ih. 

To cure smoky chimnies, , ih. 
To preserve wood from catching fire, and also from 

decay, 1 06 
Composition for preserving weather boarding, pal- 
ing, ^c. 107 
To prevent disagreeable smells from house-drains, 108 
Improved ventilators for rooms, ih. 
To preserve churches fiom dilapidation, 109 
To make red coral branches for embellishing grot- 
tos, &,c. ih. 

CHAPTER IX.— atVARY BIRDS. 

Breeding and management of canary birds, 110 

CHAPTER X.— CATTLE. 114 

Sect. I. — Food for 'Cattle ih. 

Everlasting pea, a valuable crop for cattle, ih. 

Scotch kale, excellent food for cattle, ih. 

Virtues of hay- tea for cattle, 115 

Profitable way of fattening pigs, 116 

Sect. U. — Best method of feeding and %nanag- 

ing Cows. ih. 
On the great increase of milk, by feeding cows with 

santfoin, ib. 

Parsnips productive of milk in cows, ^, 117 

Most proper food for milch cows, ih. 



'^' 



tfONTENTS. 



^^dditional quantity of milk to be gained lay keeping 

milch cows in the house, 117 

'To prevent cows from contracing bad habits wyie milk- 
ing, ib. 

^Ecr. lll.^^Management of Calves. lis 

To rear calves without milk, ib. 

Hay-tea for calves, 119 

Method of rearing calves, he. ' ^b. 

To prevent sickness in calves, 120 

Sect. IV. — Horses. ib. 

Carrots, useful as food for horses, ib. 

Benefit of furze, as winter food for hors^, 121 

Sect. V. —Sheep. 122 

To mark sheep without injury to the Wool, ib^ 

To improve the wool of sheep by smearing, ib. 

Sect. VI. — Discuses of Cattle and Sheep. tfe- 

To preserve cattle from disease in the winter, ib. 

To prevent the rot in sheep, 12S 

jParsJey, a preventive of the resp in sheep, ib. 

=Cure of the rot in sheep, ib. 

CHAPTER Xl.—CEMEJVTS. 124 

\dmirable cement, or mortar, used en the Cots wold- 
Hills, ib. 
Useful property of common glue, 126 
To make size from potatoes, ib. 
To make patentpaste, ib. 
Excellent glue, ib. 
Parchment glue, 126 
Lip gluo for joining paper, silk, &c. ib. 
Common cemenfr for joining alabaster, marble, &wC. 127 
Strong cement, ib. 
Fire-lute, 128 
Cold-lutes, ' ib. 
Cement for iron flues, ' ib. 

for repairing copper-boilers, 129 

To restore cast-iron furnaces, accidentally cracked, ib. 

Cement to resist the action of fire and water, ib. 

■' to resist moisture. J3(? 



CONTENTS. Xlll' 

Page, 
Japanese cement, or rice-glue, 130 
Turkey cement for joining metals, glass, SiC 131 
Cement for broken china. ib. 
To stop cracks in glass vessels, 133 
Cement for preserving wood and brick, ib. 
for wood or paper, 134 

CHAPTER XIL— CLOTHES. ib. 

Receipts for blacking, ^ ib. 1 35 

Easy method of cleaning boots and shoes in winter, so as 

to prevent soiling the person* house, Sic. 156 

Chemical liquid for boot-tops, 1S7 

To clean boot-tops, or any tanned leather, ib. 

To prevent shoes from taking water, 1 38 

■ To restore the lustre of tarnished gold or silver lace, ib. 

To clean gilt buckles or toys, 139 

Black varnish for old straw or chip hats, ib. 
To prevent gentlemen's hats from being spotted after 

rain, ib. 

Preventives against the ravages of the moth, 140 

To purify wool infested with insects, 141 

Chinese method of rendering cloth water-proof, ib. 
New method of cleaning silks, cottons, and woollens, ib., 
To stop the rapidity ofjfames, when the female dress has 

accidentally taken firt, 142 

To prevent clothes from catching fire, • 143 

Permanent inks for marking linen, ib. 

"l^o perfume linen, 145 

To raise the pile of velvet, when pressed down, ib. 

To prevent danger from wet clothes, ib. 

Useful hints relative to bedclothes, mattresses, &c. ib. 

To clean silk stockings, 146 

Composition for restoring scorched linen, ib. 
Danger of putting spirits into boots or shoes, to prevent 

the effects of cold. 147 

CHAPTER Xm.— CURIOSITIES. 148 

Sir Ashton Lever's method of preserving animals, ib. 

Birds shot in this kingdom, 149 

Rules for collecting curiosities on sea voyages, ib. 



SlV. . COITTEKTS. 

. Page, 
CHAPTER XIV.— D^/JRF. 149 

.Proper temperature for a dairy, %b. 

ilules for milking cows, ,150 

To make excellent butter from the milk of cows fed on 

turnips, ih. 

Improved method of making butter, ih. 

Dr. Anderson's method of keeping milk and butter, 151 

CHAPTER XV.—DISTILLJJVG, 152 

A cheap refrigerator or condenser, ih. 

To try the purity of spirits, ih. 

To cure spirituous liquors of a bad flavourj ih. 

To improve the smell and taste of spirits, 153 

Expeditious method of distilling simple waters, ih. 

CHAPTER XVI.—DOMESTIC ECON- 
OMY. 155 

To purify infectious air in a room, ib. 

Portuguese manner of preserving fish and meat, ib. 

Various methods of preserving animal food sweet, .155, 

156, 157 
Useful properties of charcoal, 156 

To preserve water and meat from putrefaction on Jong 

voyages, 157 

To detect dampness in beds, 158 

HintSt GDvWarming beds, ib. 

Beef-teaj ih. 

Improved management of bees, 158, 150 

Chinese method of mending china, 160 

To discover vitriol in beer, ih. 

Excellent substitute for table-beer, ih. 

To make good spru€€ beer, ih. 

Substitute for yeast, 161 

To make bottles air-tight, t6. 

To loosen gUss stopples of SRielling- bottles and decan- 
ters, ^ 162 
Improved corks for preserving wine or chemical liquors, ih. 
To judge the quality of wheaten flour, 62 
To detect adulterations in flour or bread, 163, 164 
To preserve biscuit from putrefaction, ih. 
To preserve sea-bread from the weevil, ih. 
To make artificial or potatoe bread, 165 
.Bread made from the water-gladiole, ih. 



COXTENTB. XT. 

Ferment for bread, used by the inhabitants of Long 
Island, in the state of Nen-York, ^ IGG 

New method of making Hour without grain, ib. 

improved method of salting butter and meat, 167 

Method of earing bad tub-butter, ib. 

Method of taking the rankness and disagreeable taaxc 
from Irish salt-butter, /f*' 

To remove the taste of turmps from milk or butter, IbS 

To make salt butter fresh |^* 

T"pre7ent'childrefl from eating their food too quickly, 168 
To prevent the tbrmation of crust upon the mside ot tea- ^^^^ 

ke'ctles, ., 

To make chocolate Irom coeoa-nuts, ^o. 

Coffee, .--^ 

The virtues of coffee, « . <« -^ 

Turkish or Arabian mode of^repanng coffee, «&. 

Cheap and valuable substitute for coffee, 171 

Excellent substitutes for coffee, 4o- 

Acorn coffee, I ' 

For improving coffee, , ^l"' 

To preserve eggs for a length of time, > o 
Best method of cleaning fine block-tm dish-covers, pa- 

tent pewter, Sic. ^.^• 

Cleaning floor-cloths, ^y- 

To clean gold and silver lace, . , , , . '"* 
To restore the lustre of glasses tarnished by age or acci- 

dent, , c 'J* 

To clean flint-glass bottles, decanters, SiC. Slc. i/J- 

To clean mahogany furniture, to. 

To clean Turkey carpets, 1 (» 

To clean marble, ^• 

Another, ./ 

To clean alabaster or marble, 1°- 

Mixture for cleaning stone-stairs, hall-pavfements, &cc. i6. 
The danger of children eating gilt-gingerbread, or any 

article covered with such a composition, 176 

Varnish for furniture, *^- 

German furniture gloss, or polishing wax for mahogany, 

&c. **• 

Method of cleaning and polishing rusty steel, 177 

Easy method of cleaning paper-hangings, tb. 

To preserve metals from rust, * |^ 

Fer cleaning steel or iron-poUshcd stoves, t*. 



Pagft. 
To clear iron from rust, 1 7 a 
How tr 'iidge the properties of nutmeg&> il. 
To take" the smell of paint from rooms, ih 
Method ofmaking Stilton cheese, ih, 
C-xi.:>^..;«5 for cheese, 179- 
To fctten poultry,. i6. 
A new method of rearing poultry to advantage ; com- 
municated by Mrs. D'Oyley to the Society of Arts, 
Sic. 180 
Method of expeditiously fattening chickens, IBS- 
Swedish method of raising turkies, ih. 
Method of fattening geese and ducks, 1 83 
Hules for plucking geese, 184 
To improve the down of geese, ih. 
To ascertain the properties of goose down, ih. 
To prevent inconvenieace froi^ perspiration of the 

hands, 185 

To purify lemon juice, ih'. 

Eveiy family to make their owa sweet oil, ib. 

To take mildew out of linen, 186 

To make verjuice, ib. 

Method ofmaking vinegar, iK 
To make vinegar with the refuse of bee-hives aft«r the 

honey is extracted, 1S7 
To strengthen vinegar, ' 188 
Balsamic and anti-putrid vinegar, ih. 
Gooseberry vinegar, ih. 
To make primrose vinegar, ih. 
Method of rendering pufarid water sweet, 188 
To purify water for domestic and other purposes, 190 
To purify water for drinking, 191 
To purify the muddj water of rivers or pits, ifr^ 
Method ofmaking putrid water sweet, in a night's time, ih. 
To prevent the freezing of water ih pipes in the winter- 
time, 192 
Easy method of purifying water, ih. 
The best method of obtaining pure soft water, for mc- 

dicinnl purposes, withoutdistiliing it, ih. 

To purify river, or any other muddy water, 193 

Warm water, ih. 

To make sea water fit for washing linen at sea, ih. 

Proper method of making toast and water, ih. 

To make a vessel for filtering water, 1 94 

The Turkish method of filtering water by ascension, 1 95 

To preserve lemon juice during a long voyage, ih*. 



CONTENTS. XVli. 

* Page, 

Method of preserving grapes, 196 
Singular and simple manner of preserving apples from 

the effects of frost, in North America, ib. 

To keep oranges and lemons, 197 

New method of preserving potatoes, 198 

To preserve potatoes from the frost, ih: 
Method of recovering frost-bitten fruits and vegetables,. 199" 

To preserve apples, ih. 

Preservation of succulent plants, 199 

A method of preserving fruit fresh all the year, ih. 

To preserve hazel- nuts in great perfection for many 

months, 200 

To manage ripe fruit for a -desert, ih. 

To preserve aromaties and- other herbs, ih. 

To preserve grapes till winter, 201 

Walnut ketchup, ih. 

To cork and preserve cyder in bottfes, 202 

To make excellent punch, ib. 

To make a pleasanc, sober, and refreshing drink for 

summer, ih. 
To make the German liquor, mum, ih. 
To make the celebrated eastern beverage called sher- 
bet, 203 
To make birch-tree wine, ih. 
Currant wine, ih. 
Elder wine, 204^ 
Grape wine, ih. 
An excellent family wine, ib. 
To extract syrup from Indian corn, 205 
Excellent bitter for the stomach, ih. 
To detect sugar of lead in wines, ih. 
A test, for discovering in wines, metals that are injuri- 
ous to the health, 206 
Substitute for soap, easily prepared in small quantities 

by private families in the country, 207 

To make Jamaica vegetable soap, 209 

To make Lady Derby's soap, %h 

To make British herb tea, 210 

British substitute for foreign tea, iJx 

Another, 2*5, 

Another, i^^ 

The virtues of sage, £11 
To prevent excessive thirst, in cases of emergenciy at sea, 

in the summer time, ^^^ 

b2 



XVUl. CONTENTS. 

Page.. 
Manner of preserving eggs perfectly fresh for twelve 

months, 212 
Another^. 213 
Cream preserved in long voyages, ib. 
Substitute for human milk, where, from any circum- 
stances, it cannot be procured for children, ih. 
To make old man's milk : a nutricious and pleasant 

beverage, ih. 
To make artificial asses' milk, "244 
To prevent disagreeable smells from privies, night- 
chairs, &:c. • ibt 
To free molasses from their sharp taste, aad to render 

them fit to be used instead of sugar,^ t5» 

To destroy bugs, 215 

Another, 2 Id; 

Economy in fuel, £17 

Another method, 218 

Economy in tindepj ib. 

Plate powder, ib^ 

Usefulness of clivers, or goose-grass, 219 

Important use of the leaves of the vine> ib,. 

Valuable properties of cherry-tree gum, ib^ 
Valuable properties of the heHanthus annuus, or srni- 

flower, ib: 
Remedies against fleas, 220 
Fly -water, ib. 
To make a wholesome food of cashew nuts,. ib. 
Economy in candles, i&. 
Curious small cakes of incense for perfuming apart- 
ments, ^ 221 
To prevent the disagreeable smell arising from house 

drains, ib. 

Polished tea-urns preferable to varnished ones, ib. 

Management of razor-straps, 222 

Essence of soap for shaving or washing hands, ib. 
Composition for shaving, without the use of razor, soap, 

or water, ib. 
To prevent accidents from leaving a poker in the fire, 223 
Economical mode of cutting cauliflower, ib. 
Substitute for milk or cream, 224 
J^ecessary hints to those who use copper vessels for cu- 
linary purposes, ^ ib, 
T,o prevent lamps from being pernicious to asthmatic 
' persons, or others, liable to complaints of the chest, S&S: 



CONTENTfif. xiX- 

Page, 
To make econo!»KCal wicks for lamps, 225 

Useful properties of celandine, ih. 

Economical use of roots of trees, ib. 

Application of the roots of fir-trees or pines, 22G 

Useful properties of r^fi spurge, ib,. 

Paste or food for singing-birds, superior to the German 
paste in commoa use,. 227 _ 

CHAPTER XVU.'-DRAWiya ih: 

To make transparent paper for drawing, ib. 

To trace drawings or prints against the light, ^ 225 

Method of using tracin*;^' paper, ib. 

To copy drawings, &tc. with fixed materials, ib. 

To transfer any imprc.***<l with vermilion, 229 

Transparent paper, ib. 

Method of copying a design, ib. 

To preserve pencil and chalk drawings, ib. 

Method of setting pencil drawings, 230 
Wash for preserving drawings, m^de with a black-lead 

pencil, or with hard black chalk, ib. 
Easy method of taking off a pertect copy of a print or 

drawing, ih. 

To make a drawing desk or frame, 231 

CHAPTER XVllL—DROWJVLVG. 23£ 

Method of rendering assistance to persons in danger of 
drowning, i&. 

Method of recovering persons apparently drowned, as 
recommended by the Humane Society, 233 

CHAPTER XIX.— D YEIjYG. ib. 

To make a liquid for staining bone or wood of different 
colours, ih. 

Art of dyeing or staining leather gloves, to resemble the 
beautiful York tan, Limerick dye, Stc. 334 

To stain wood a fine black, ib. 

To stam wood a beautiful red or mahogany colour, ib. 

To make nankeen dye, 235 

To dye cotton a fine buff colour, ib. 

Substitute for galls in dyeing, and also in making ink, ib. 

Easy method of dyeing yellow or green, 236 

To stain wood green, ib, 



Page, 
To stain horn to imitate tortoise sbelt, 236- 

Substitute for verdigris in dyeing black, , £37 

Another substitute for verdigris, 2S8 

CHAPTER XX.—PLEASWG FXFERIME.VTS. 239 

To produce gas light on a small scale ib. 

The phosphoric pencil, ib. 

The fire-bottle, i6= 

To make the phosphoric match-bottle, ib. 
To make an illuminated or phosphoric bottle, which vrill 

preserve its light for several months, 240- 
To take irnpressions on paper from designs made on 

stone, . ib. 
A cheap and simple process for p'^iuting on glass, suffi- 
cient for the purpose of making a magic lanthorn, 241 
To make transparent screens for the exhibition of the 

phantasmagoria, . ib. 

Thunder powder, ib, 

GHAPTER XXL— FARRIERY^ 24£ 

A receipt foT the cholic in a horse, ib. 

Distemper in dogs, ib* 

To know whether a dog is mad or not, ib, 

CPAPTER XXn.— fYi2£. £43 

Method of extinguishing fires in chimnies, ib. 

To extricate horses from fire, ibi. 
Method of rendering all sorts of paper, linen^ and cotton 

less combustible, 244. 

To prevent wood, linen, .&c. from catching fire, ib. 

Metiiod to escape from fire, ib. 

To make water more efficacious in extinguishing fires, 245 

To extinguish fires speedily, ib. 
Hint respecting women's and children's clothes matching 

fire, ib. 

To stop the progress of fire on board of ships, 246 

CHAPTER XXm.—FIRE-ARMS (JiJVD THE MA- 
JSTAGEMEATT OF GUJVPOWDER.) 247 

To brown ^un-barrels, ib. 

To keep arms and polished metals from \\x^U ^'^•' 



CONTENTS. SXIr 

Page. 
To prevent humidity from being prejudicial to powder 

magazines* 2i7 

To recover damaged gunpowder, 24 C 

'fo increase the force of gunpowder, ib, 

"^lethod of increasing the effects of gunpowder, and also 
shewing the necessity of certain precautions in load- 
ing fire-arms, i6.- 

CH AFTER XX\y. —FIRE- WORKS. £49 

To make sky-rockets, ib. 

Improvement in fire-works, 250 

CHAPTER XXV.—GARDEJVLYG—BOTJJVY. 

Sect. I. — Management of Green-Kouse, ^c. ib. 

Proper situation for a green-house, or room, ib- 

To air plants, and ventilate rooms wherein they are con- 
tained, ib. 

Sect. II. — Seeds, 251 

Easy method of discovering whether or not seeds are 
sufficiently ripe^ ih. 

On preserving seeds of plants in a state fit for vegetar^;i( «■ 
tion, ib; 

To facilitate the growth of foreign seeds, 253 

Sect. III. — Management of Garden Borders. ib. 

To plant and make edgings, ib. 

How to cut box-edgings, ih. 

A sure method of curing gravel- walks,. 253 

Sect. IV. — Culture and Management of Flotvers. ib. 

Proper method of laying carnations, ib. 

Plants watered by being placed in dishes, improper, 256 

When to plant annual and perennial flowers, ib. 

To remove herbs and flowers in the summer, 257 

Method of growing flowers and fruits during wiqter, ^ ib. 
To preserve delicate young shoots of flowers from slugs 

and earwigs, ib. 

Virtues of the sun-flower 25^ 

To preserve flower-seeds ii. 



XXai. CO-NTWSTS^ 



Page, 
Sect. V. — Culfure and Treatment of Fruit-Trees 
and Shrubs 258 

To prevent blossom and fnik-trees from being damaged 
by early spring iVost ib. 

Chiiiese mode oT propagating fruit-trees £59" 

To improve fruit-trees by attention to the colotir of tlie 
soil ib. 

To increase the growth in trees 26*-- 

To prevent hares and rabbits from barking young plan- 
tations ib. 

Bad effects of iron nails, Ste. on fruit-trees, or mischie- 
vous effects of iron nails m conjunction with branch- 
es of fruit-trees £61< 

To destroy moss on trees ib. 

Necessity of taking^ offsuperfluous suckers from shrubs ib. 

To cure the disease in apple trees ib. 

To cure the canker in trees 262 • 

A method of curing fruit trees infected with an easterly; 
blight ' ib. 

Experienced method of healing wounds in trees - 265 

Coujposilion for healing wounds in trees ib. 

To prune 5i;.:Ji fruit ib. 

To pru«e vines "to advantage 264 

THe most proper time when leaves of trees ought to be 
collected for pharmaceutical and economical pur- 
poses ib. 

Sect. VI. — Culture and Management of Garden Crops, ib. 

To propagate herbs by slips and cuttings ib. 

New method of rendering asparagus more productive, 
and of producing it in every month in the year 265 

To raise capsicums, and make Cayenne pepper 266 

New method of raising cucumbers 267 

To prevent the irregular grow th of melons 268 

Easy method of producing mushrooms ib. 

To obtain a good crop of onions ib. 

The advantage of sowing peas in circles instead of straight 
rows * - ib. 

To raise peas in autumn, and to prevent mice from eat- 
ing them when sown 269 

Method of cultivating radishes for salad, so as to have 
them ready at all seasons of the year 27f 



rtfJfTEiri'S. xxin. 

Page". 
To preserve strawberry plants from the heat of the sun, 

fee. . ■ ^1/ 

Directions for managing strawberries in summer ^i&. 

To cukivate the common garden rhubarb 272 
Method of cultivating and curing Turkey rhubarb from 

seed ' -7^ 
Cultivation of Turkey rhubarb by offsets 274 
Method of curing rhubarb Im- 
proper soil for the culture of of turnips ^^b. 
Preservation of succulent plants 275 
Vario us useful properties of tobacco to gardeners tb. 

CHAPTER XXVL— HEALTH. 277 

Sect. I.— General rules for the Preservation of Health, ib- 
Avoid, as much as possible, living near church-yards t&. 
Valuable concise rules for preserving health m wmter ^ib. 
Cautions in visiting sick rooms 278 

Preventive of autumnal rneuaiatisms ^»- 

To promote sleep r i v * * 

The use of tar-water in expanding the lungs of public 

speakers, Sic. 
German method of preventing hysterics 
Hints for ventilating stage-coaches 
Best mode of avoiding the fatal accidents of open car- 
riages . ., 
-To fumigate foul rooms ',?• 
To make a truly valuable fumigation powder i'^« 
To make balsamic and anti-putrid vinegar -^1 

Sect, n.— On i/ie %e. *' 2^=^ 

General rules for the choice of spectacles, and for the 

preservation of the sight - ^ r • u* 

-Of preservers, and rule for the preservation of sight 
Comfort for those nearly blind 
To cure a bruise in the eye 



279 
ib. 
ib. 

280 



283 

£80 

287 



Sect. III.— Antidotes to noxious Substances and Animals, iff. 
To prevent the effects of poison of lead on painters, gla- ^ 

To prevent the baneful effects of burning charcoal 28S 

To prevent the mischief arising from the bite ot a mad 
dog 



^ 



W^:^ 



4^ 



XXJJ. 0OiN'TE-N'rS> 



Page, 
Sect. V. — Culture and Treatment of FriTit-Trees 
and &hrubs 258- 

To prevent blossom and fruit-trees from being damaged 

by eariy spring frost ib. 

Chiiiese mode or propagating fruit-trees £59' 

To improve fruit-trees by attention to the colour of the 

soil ib. 

To increase the growth in trees 26t-- 

To prevent hares and rabbits from barking young plan- 

ta,tions ib. 

Bad effects of iron nails, fee. on fruit-trees, or mischie- 
vous effects of iron nails hi conjanction with branch- 
es of fi'uit-trees 261^ 
Td destroy moss on trees ib^ 
Necessity of taking offsuperffuous suckers from shrubs ib. 
To cure the disease in apple trees ib. 
To cure the canker in trees £62 ■ 
A method of curing fruit trees infected with an easterly; 

blight ih, 

Experiencf^.d method of healing wounds in trees- 26S 

Composition for healing wounds in trees ih. 

To prune iirj] fruit ibo 

To prune vines to advantage 284 

The most proper time when leaves of trees ought to be 
collected for pharmaceutical and economical pur- 
poses ib. 

Sect. VI. — Culture and Management of Garden Crops, ib. 

To propagate herbs by slips and cuttings ib. 

New method of rendering asparagus more productive, 
and of producing it in every month in the year 265 

To raise capsicums, and make Cayenne pepper 266 

New method of raising cucumbers 267 

To prevent the irregular grow th of melons 268 

Easy method of producing mushrooms {6. 

To obtain a good crop of onions ib. 

The advantage of sowing peas in circles instead of straight 
rows ' " ib. 

To raise peas in autumn, and to prevent mice from eat- 
ing them when sown 269 

Method of cultivating radishes for salad, so as to have 
them ready at all seasons of the year 27f 



Page, 
To preserve strawberry plants from the heat of the sun, 

fee. 271 

Directions for managing strawherries in summer ib. 

To cultivate the common garden rhubarb 272 

Method of cultivating and curing Turkey rhubarb from 

seed 273 

Cultivation of Turkey rliubarb by offsets 274 

Method of curing rhubarb ih. 

Proper soil for the culture of of turnips ib. 

Preservation of succulent plants 275 

Various useful properties of tobacco to gardeners ib. 

CHAPTER XXVL—HEALTH. 277 

Sect. I. — General rules for the Preservation of Health, ib. 

Avoid, as much as possible, living near church-yards ib. 

Valuable concise rules for preserving health in winter ib. 

Cautions in visiting sick rooms 278 

Preventive of autumnal rheumatisms ib. 

To promote sleep ib. 

The use of tar-water in expanding the lungs of public 

speakers, &lc. 279 

German method of preventing hysterics ib. 

Hints for ventilating stage-coaches ib. 

Best mode of avoiding the fatal accidents of open car- 
riages 280 

To fumigate foul rooms ib. 

To make a truly valuable fumigation powder - , ih. 

To make balsamic and anti-putrid vinegar 281 

Sect. II.— On the Eye. ^ 282 

General rules for the choice of spectacles, and for the 

preservation of the sight - ib. 

Of preservers, and rule for the preservation of sight 283 

Comfort for those nearly blind 280 

To cure a bruise in the eye 2C7 

Sect. III. — Antidotes to noxious Substances and Animals, ib. 

To prevent the effects of poison of lead on painters, gla- 
ziers, k.c. .'*' * i^' 
To prevent the baneful effects of burning charcoal . Ms 
To prevent the mischief arising from the bite of a i^^ 
dog "(ilr i^^ 






Page. 

To prevent death from the bite of venomous animals £89 

To counteract the baneful effects of poison ^ ih. 

Cure for the poison of the deadly night-shade 290 

Sect. IV. — Management ^'c. of the Teeth. ib. 

Method of causing children to cut their teeth easily ib. 

Rules for the preservation of the teeth and gums 291 

To prevent the tooth-ache ib. 
Easy, safe, and pleasant method of removing tartar from 

the teeth £92 

-Tincture for the teeth and gums ih 

Tooth-powder 2«3 

Another ib. 

Sect. V. — Remedies for various local Affections. ib, 

Easy and almost instantaneous cure for the ague ib. 

M. Homassel's account of his cure for burns or scalds ib. 

Remedy for burns . S94 

Another ib. 

Efficacy of vinegar in cuving burns and scalds ib. 

Portfer plaster for bruises 295 

Easy method of attracting earwigs from the ear ib. 
To sill earwigs or other insects, which may accidentally 

have crept into the ear ib. 

For a pain in the ear ib. 

Remedy for deafness 29G 

For chilblains ib. 

To prevent corns from growing on the feet ib. 

Cure for warts ib. 

Court plaster ib,. 

Certain cure for the cramp 297 

Simple remedy for the cure of lameness by contraction ib. 
To make cliver, or goose grass ointment, remarkable for 

its salutary eifecis in cases of inveterate scurvy 298 

Easy method of curing the sea scurvy , ib. 
Method for the speedy recovery of the use of the foot or 

hand that has baen violently sprained 299 

To alleviate the pain occasioned by the sting of gnats 300 
Simple and elfect'-ial cure for those who may have acci- 

^dently swallowed a wasp ib. 

To cure the sting of a wtisp or bee ib. 

Another ih> 

Another ib. 

Another * 301 



Pagei 

To prevent sea sickness, 801 

Remedy for a sore throat, ik 

A common drink for a sore throat, 50i 

Gargle for a sore throat, if). 

A receipt for a cough, ih. 

An excellent styptic, ^ ib, 

A now and useful styptic, ib. 

Infallible remedy for stopping bleeding of the nose, 303 

For curing worms in the human body, ib. 

To make an improved tincture of bark, 804 

Observations on leeches, and their use, ib. 

Singularly useful properties of garlic, 307 

The usefulness of two common plants, 608 

CHAPTER XXVIL— LViT, ib. 

To make ink, ih' 

To make one gallon of black writing ink, S09 

Red ink, ib. 

To prevent ink from moulding, 310 

To make Indian ink, i6. 

To make China ink, ib. 

Substitute for Indian ink, iL 

German black for printers, 311 

Permanent writing ink, ib. 

Permanent red ink for marking linen, S13 

To make sympathetic or invisible ink, ib. 
To make stuchum, or perpetual ink of the ancients, for 

writing on stone, 31S 

CHAPTER XXVm.—PArjYT—PjlLyTIJVGS-- 

MAJVAGEMEJVT OF COLOURS. ib. 

Dh'ections for painting rooms, rails, &ic. ib. 
To prepare drying oil and paint, ib. 
For the secpnd priming, S14 
To niake putty and finish painting, ib. 
To prepare blue colour from verdigris, ib. 
Lead-coloured paint for preserving iron, ib. 
Method of preparing a cheap substitute for oil paint, as 
durable as that prepared with oil, and free from' any 
bad smell, 315 
Cheap black paints from earthy and mineral sub- 
stances, ib. 
To make brown paint, ib. 



'W? 



Page, 
Composition for preserving weather-boarding, paling, 
and all other works liable to be injured by the wea- 
ther, 316 
tTo prepare the beautiful colour called Naples yellow^, 817 
Another method, ib. 
Mrs. Hooker's method of preparing arid applying a 
composition for painting in imitation of the ancient 
Grecian manner, 318 
To clean oil paintings, 322 
To take off', instantly, a copy from a print or picture, ib. 
To clean and whiten prints or engravings, ib. 
To make mezzotintos, 323 
To judge of transparent colours for painting, 324 
To prepare ivory leaves for miniature painters, ib. 
How to stencil, or multiply patterns, for working mus- 
lins, &c. ib. 
To stain paper or parchment yellow, ib. 
To stain paper or parchment crimson, 825 
To stain paper or parchment green, - ib. 

CHAPTER XXIX.— PERFUMES— COSMETICS, ib. 

To make an excellent smelling-bottle, ih. 
To make jessamine butter or pomatum, 326 
To make milk of roses, ib. 
Wash for the skin, ib. 
Method of extracting essences from flowers, ib. 
To make the quintessence of lavender, or other aromat- 
ic herb, S27 
To obtain aromatic oils from the pellicle, which enve- 
lopes the seeds of the laurus sassafras, and laurus ben- 
zoin, ib. 
To preserve aromatic and other herbs, 328 
Lavender water, ib. 
Another, * ib. 
To make rose water, ^ 329 
To make eau de luce, and its use, * ib. 
To make Hungary water, ih. 
To make otto (or odour) of roses, ib. 
To make lip salve, 330 
To make the celebrated pomade divinC;. 331 
To make soft pomatum, ib 
To make hard pomatum, ib. 
Crenuine Windsor soap, t&- 
^0 prepare aromatic vinegar. 35.2 



co:vTENT&; XTLr'n. 

Page. 
Essence oCsoap for sliaving or washing hands," 5tii 

To incioasc tho growth of hair, 3SS 

To- know whether hair-powder is adulterated with 

lime, ih. 

T4J perfiuiie hair-powder, ib. 

Preparation of the Greek-water (or the solution of sil- 
ver, for tlic converting red or liglit-coloured hair into 
a deep brown), H. 

A more convenient dye for the hair, 3S5 

CHAPTER XXX.— RATS, SS6 

To destroy rats and other vermin, ib. 

Another method of destroying rats, {6. 

To destroy rats or mice, ib. 

A mouse-trap, by which forty or fifty mice may be 
caught in a night, ih. 

New, simple, and effectual method of destroying; ratsf 837 

I>r. Taylor's cheap and eiiicacious method of destroy- 
ing rats, ib. 

To prevent the burrowing of rats in houses, 333 

CHAPTER XXXL— SPOTS OR STALVS. Sir 

To make portable balls, for removing spots from clothes 
in general, ?3); 

The fumes of bj-imstone useful in removing spots or 
stains in linen, fee. ih. 

To remove spots of grease from paper, ib. 

Substitute for salt of sorrel, for removing ink spots and 
iron-moulds, 341 

Expeditious method of taking out stains from scarlet, 
or velvet of any other colour, lb. 

To take spots eftt'ctually out of silk, linen, or woollen, ib. 

To take the stains of grease from woolh'n or silk, ib. 

Easy and safe method of discharging grease spots from 
woollen cloths, 342 

To take out spots of ink, ib. 

To take iron-moulds out of linen, ib. 

To. take out spots on silk, ib. 

To take wax out of velvet of all colours, except crim- 
son, ib. 

Process for preparing nitrous acid for extracting stains, 
&CC, from tanned leather, S4S 

To..extract grease spots from paper, 34^- 



Xviti. COSTBNTS, 

\ ■ ' , Pirge-. 

To remove spots of grease from books and prints, 345 
To take spots out of cloths, stuffs, silk, cotton, and linen, 344 

Remedy against the effects of ink, when just s]>illcd, S4f> 

CHAPTER XXXU.— TIMBER. 34G 

To promote the growth of forest trees, ib. 

White-washing the trunks of trees recommended, ib. 

To cure wounds in trees, 347 
Mr. Forsyth's method of curing injuries and defects in 

fruit and forest trees, ib. 
To preserve wood in damp situations, 349 
Cause and. prevention of the dry rot, 350 
Cure for the dry rot in timber, so as to make it indes- 
tructible by water, ib. 
3Iethod of trying the goodness of timber for ship-build- 
ing, used in the arsenal at Vienna, ib. 
To season and render green timber immediately fit for 
''use, ib, 

CHAPTER XXXIII.— VARmSHES. 85£ 

Observations on varnishes, ih. 
General observations on making varnishes of all kinds, 355 

Of varnishes with spirit of wine, 356 

Colourless spirit varnish of mastic and sandaraC, ' ih. 

Varnish for violins and musical Instruments, i5, 

Oold-eolour varnish, 357 

General observations on spirit varnif^hes. ih. 

Oil varnishes, 858 

Copal varnish, 359 

Another, ih. 

Another, ih. 

Gold-colour varnish or lacquer, 360 

Blackjapan, ih. 

Common varnish, ib. 

Varnishes with turpentine atone^ ib. 

Common turpentine varnish, ib. 

Elasfic gum varnish, 361 

V^arnishes of gums, ib. 

Martin's copal varnibh, ib. 

Amber varnish, 36^ 

Varnish for coloured drawings and print?* ih. 

To varnish plaster r-^^'^ m- ri.^r]f>|5. H,, 

A nother way, 36.3 



CONTENTS, \\i\. 

Pagr. 

Varnish for earthenware, 3ft;> 

French soft varnish for engravers, if>. 

Varnish for furniture, ib. 

A varnish for toilet-hoxes, cases, fan«, Sic. ib. 

Pre{)araiion of the true copal varnish, Stii 

To make varnish for oil paintings, ib. 

To make Avhite varnish, ib. 

Another, l)y Dr. Withering, ib. 

A vnrrii:.il) for preservitjg insects, fruits, kc. 365 

Method of preparing linseed-oil varni.sh, ib. 

Varnish for pales and coarse wood-work, 368 

To make gold varnish, 3G7 

Varnish for drawings, prints, fcc. Sic. 3GC 

To make a lacquer lor hrass, ib. 

To make Chinese varnish, 363 
Varnish to prevent the rays of the sun from passing 

through the glasses of windows, ib. 

Seed-lac varnish, ib. 

Shell-lac var^nish, i^. 

CHAPTER XXXIV.— EFFICACIOUS REMEDIES 
FOR DESTR YLVG VERMLX. S70 

To destroy ants, ib. 

Another, ib. 

To destroy heetles, ib' 

Another method, ib. 

For destroying hugs and worms in wood, STl 

To drive away crickets, * ib. 

To destroy crickets, ib. 

"^'Icthods of stopping the ravages of the caterpillars from 
shruhs, plants, and vegrtahles, ih: 

J^iquor for destroying caterpillars, ants, and other in- 
sects, 372 

For destroying caterpillars on gooseberry bushes, ib. 

To preserve flowers, U*aves, and fruits from caterpillars, 373 

Method to destroy or drive away earth-worms, and 
other insects, hurtful to fields and gardens, 374 

To destroy ear-wigs and wood-lice, ili. 

Bemedies against iip;'.;^, 375 

To destroy JBeas on dogs, ib. 

To clear gardens of vermin by diick^, r&. 

The use of garlic against moles, 'rrubs, and .<nails, ib. 

' The use of sulphur in destroying insects on plants, and 
its benefit for vegetation, ' 37G 



V Page, 

Method of destroying insects on fruit-trees, 37« 

To destroy insects prejudidai to apple treeS; 377 

To destroy insects on fruit-trees, - ib. 

To kill reptiles, 37a 

To. prevent slugs getting, into fruit-trees, ib'. 

To destroy snails and the red spiderj'. ibi 

■ vermin, 379 

■ insects on wall fruit-trees, SoO 

wasps and hornets, ib* 

— worms in gardens, Sic. 382 

Usefulness of the wren ia destroying insects, ih 

CHAPTER X-XXV.— WATER. 383 

To make artificial sea-water, ih. 

To disperse noxious vapours from welis,^ 384 

CPAPTER XXXVI.—WLYES. 305- 

To make British Champagne, ib. 

koumiss (a Tartar wine), ib, 

orange wine, 3ra 

excellent American, wine, ib. 

CHAPTER XXXYll.—IFRlTWG. S88 

Secrrl mf^thods of writing, ib. 389 
To write blue and red letters at once with the same ink 

and piM:\, and on the same p<iper, ib.. 
To wiite different colours on the same paper with the 

juice of violets, 390- 
To write in the dark, as straight as by day or candle- 

h^}it, ^ ib. 

To form letters of gold on paper, and for ornaments of 

writing, 3*,^. 

Method oi copying letters without the use of a copying 

machine, SdV 

To make durable writing on paper, ib,. 

To preserve letters fiiom being opened, ib. 

To take out writing, 392 

.Method of recovering the legilulity of- decayed writ- 

To revive old writings ivliich are ahno&t defaced, 39.'i 

To gild letters on vellum or paper, , ib. 
To make pounce, ., * " 394;' 

Method of obtaiorng exact copies of insjcriptiohs, ih. 



-^CmTENTS. xxxi, 



CHAPTER xxxYm.~MiscELL.^.yEous he: 

CEIPTS, 395 

"To make excellent ink, n,. 

Quicksilver, 3gg 

To revive a dull fire, if,^ 

Small pox, ^•^* 

Against the blatta or cock-roaches, 397 

Corns and warts, j*^^ 

To destroy snails and slugs, {h. 

To prevent paper from sinking, ib\ 

To harden plaster of Paris or casts, ib. 

To change hair to a deep brown, ib. 

Pearl-white, 593 

To detect copper in liquids, ib. 

To take off a gold ring, sticking tight on a finger, ib. 

To detect the mixtui e of arsenic, ib 

To try the purity of spirits, ib\ 

To raise a salad quickly, ib 

To destroy grubs, ib 

Remedy for burns or scalds, 399 

-A corn plaster, n^ 

To keep off flies, ib\ 

For preserving the nails, ib 

To take away superfluous hair, ib 

To make phosphorus, ib[ 

To discharge grease from leather, 400 

To prevent wounds from mortifying, ^5. 

To discharge grease from paper, ib 

Substitute for flax, ^-j' 

Economical use of nutmegs, 404 

To ascertain the quality of nutmegs, ib 

To increase the durability of tiles, 402 

To prevent brass vessels from contracting verdigris, ih 

Improved mode of preserving flowers, ib 

Vanherman's durable white paint, ib 

Useful knife-board, 40<i 

To cure chapped or sore lips, i5. 

To mark sheep without injury to the wool, ib 

To promote the growth of hair, 40 i 

To fatten Turkies as they do in Norfolk, ib 

To judge of the weather, ' ib\ 

Substitute for grease for coach-whe»iSp 40fc 

Excellent varnish for umbrellas, ih. 



COLLECTION 



OF 



!E5S(SIMIlIP^^a 



CHAPTER I. 

^ECT. I.— MANAGEMENT, (fee. OF THE SOIL. 
1 . Method of employing Falloic Grounds to advantage, 

I PLANTED on about half an acre of fallow, of 
an indifferent quality, the soil inclining to sand, 
some potatoes in straight lines, two feet asunder, 
and tlie plants forty inches distant in the rows, 
ploughing the intervals three times in the summer, 
that is to say every six weeks. 

The plough that was used was Yory light, and 
without v/hcels, and v»'ith two horses going one be- 
fore the other ; it was easy to draw two furrows, 
about five inches deep, without much damaging the 
roots. 

My workman, at first, smiled at my attempt : the 
potatoes sprouted but slowly, and did not seem to 
promise any great success ; but after the first plough- 
ing they got forward ^ and after the other two plough- 
ings were, to the full, as forward as those of ray 
neighbours, which had been plentifully dunged.—* 

D 



,38 AGRICULTURE. 

Finally, after the third ploughing, every one was 
astonished to see that the stalks of my potatoes, 
which had not been at all dunged, were fresh and 
green, when the stalks of others, which had been 
dunged, were turned yellow, withered and almost 

In a word, this piece of ground yielded me in au- 
tumn half as many potatoes as the same quantity of 
land would have done in the ordinary method of 
i|)lanting, and these were all of a delicious flavour. 

Remark, — Potatoes, however, are known to be a 
scourging crop: they require as much dung, or (if 
it be withheld) will impoverish the gix)und as much 
as a crop of oats. By putting straw into the fur- 
rows, where the roots are dropped, or even by keep- 
ing the earth loose by frequent stirring, a tolerable 
^rop of potatoes may often be raised, without dung.; 
but more injury is done to the ground than the va- 
lue of the crop of potatoes will repay. 

2. Advantages of planting Waste Lands with Alder, 

Alder thrives wonderfully in swampy grounds, 
and its uses are so various as to adapt it to an al- 
inost endless variety of purposes. The wood of 
this tree is in great esteem and demand for machine- 
ry ; the cogs for mill wheels formed of it being pro- 
ved, by experience, to be superior to any other. -^ 
It is commonly used for bobbins ; and the country 
-people [in England] wear shoes, or, as they are ge- 
nerally termed, clogs, made of it. Its excellent 
quality of resisting injury from water is universally 
acknowledged : hence its great value for pump- 
trees, pipes, drains, conduits to reservoirs, piles 
under water, and all kinds of wood work which are 
^kept constantly wet. It is much to be lamented, 
4hat the valuable properties gi it^ bark should l^e 



HANAGaWENT OF THE SOIL. 3^ 

5\> little known, that in most instances it is buried 
with the tree. The black dyers of cotton stutls 
know its value, and make much use of it. They 
purchase it at the rate of seven to eight-pence the 
stone, laid down at their dye-houses. It is not chop- 
ped, but sold as it is stripped from the tree, after 
it has become moderately dr}- ; so that there is no 
expense in chopping and cleaning it, as is the case 
with oak bark. It might be used to great advan* 
tage as an excellent substitute for many woods used 
in dying, which we have from abroad, andon which 
we expend considerable sums. 

3. To prevent much mischief to Sea Embankmcn(c\ 
or those of Rixers. 

Where a breach is actually made therein, it may 
be prevented from increasing in width, by an early 
application of old sails, fastened to each side of the 
breach where the water enters, which will allow 
the water to slide over them, and hinder more of 
the earth from being carried away. 



SECT. II.— FARM OFFICES. 

4. Useful Hint^ whereby Farmers may make a sav- 
ing in the article of Thatching, 

The barns and tenements of many farmers hold-^ 
ing on lease, and obliged to repair, being thatched, 
and sudden winds sometimes making much thatch- 
ing necessary, farmers would do well to make a rick 
of vvrheat straw, except it happens to be very short, 
and then they would keep their stack two years, 
and make a new one the second. 

The author of this article says, that though he net 
only ricks his straw^ but slightly thatches his rick 



40 agricultItke. 

to keep out the weather, he has, in ten years, gain- 
ed 53/. by the practice, beside what he saved by. 
not being obliged to thrash wheat for straw at an 
ihiproper season. 

o. Curious mode cf making Earthen Barn Floors, 

Many of the barns in the Gotswold Hills, or Wolds 
of Gloucestershire, have a species of earthen floor, 
which is generally thought to surpass floors of stone 
or any other material, except sound oak plank. — 
Their superior excellence is partly owing to the 
materials of ^vhich they are composed, and partly 
to the method of using them for this purpose. Ths- 
inaterials are equal parts of a kind of ordinary gra- 
vel, the calcareous earth of the subsoil, as found itr 
different parts of these hills, and the chipplngs of 
free-stone, or calcareous granite, from the free-stone 
quarries. The principle of making these floors is, 
perhaps, at least m Great-Britain, peculiar to these 
hills. In other parts of the united kingdom, earth- 
en barn floors are always made with wet materials, 
a kind of mortar, v>hich is liable to crack as it driesj 
and which requires drying for some months after 
Leing made, before it grows hard enough for use. 
Here, on the contrary, the materials are worked dry; 
of course they do not crack, and are ready for use 
immediately on their being finished. The process 
commences by mixing the above niaterials together 
in equal quantities, and twice sifting them: the first 
time, through a wide sieve, to catch the stones and 
larger gravel, which are thrown to the bottom of the 
floor; the next, through a finer thieve, to separate 
the more earthy parts from the finer gravel, W'hich 
is spread on the stones. Above that are then regu- 
larly distributed the more earthy parts ; trimming 
down, closely and firmly on each other, the differ- 
ent layers, and making the whole about a foot in 



FARM-OFFICES. 41 

thickness. The surface being levellec!, is next 
beaten with a flat wooden beetle, made like a gar- 
dener's turf beater, till the floor becomes as hard as 
stone, and rings at every stroke like metal. These 
floors are extremely lasting ; being equally proof 
against the besom and the flail. The materials, it 
is true, cannot be procured in many districts ; but, 
the princi])le of making barn floors with dry mate- 
rials being kept in view, other substances may, on 
a fair trial, be found to answer the same purpose. 
This practice of hardening earthen floors, &;c. by 
excessive beating, is practised in several parts of 
the world ; and in the kingdom of Naples, as well 
as in the island of Malta, where the tops of the hou- 
ses are constantly flat, the cement of which they 
are composed, though sprinkled with water, in that 
warm climate, is rendered so hard and dry, as well 
as so compact, smooth and even, by continued beat- 
ing, that the rain is carried off from them with the 
same freedom as from 9ny flat leaden or copper roof, 
without being at all subject to any sort of corrosion; 
The lime ash floors, in Devonshire, made of the 
refuse of the lime kilns, and ash of the Welch stone 
coal, with which the lime-stone is burned, are of a 
similar kind.. 

6'. • To make, durable Barn Floors, 

A durable barn floorniay be made of well-burnt' 
polished brick on edge, placed in the herring-bone 
form, on a pavement of stone three inches and a 
half in thickness ; or oaken plank two inches and a 
half in thickness ; or even of well-tempered indura-- 
ted loam, of a proper substance, not less than eight 
inches, and laid upon dry materials, or bottom. — 
Any of them will make a durable barn floor, provi- 
ded it is kept free from wet, waggon wheels, and 
horses feet. The best thrashing floor for SDiall farms 

D 2 



'4'2, AGRICULTURE, 

of 150 acres, is made of sound plank. In larger 
farms (say 300 acres and upward) the thrashing ma- 
chine should supersede the flail. 

7. The Virtues of Poplar Wood for the Flooring of 

Granaries. 

The Lombard poplar is recommended as a timber 
adapted for flooring granaries, which is said to pre- 
vent the destruction of corn by wevik and insects^ 
Poplar wood will not easily take fire. 



SECT. III.-^WATER. 

8. Easy Method of ohtaining Water in almost any 

situation. 

The ground must be perforated by a borer. In 
the perforation is placed a v/o*oden pipe, which is 
driven down with a mallet, after which the boring 
is continued, that the pipe may be driven still far- 
ther. In proportion as the cavity of the borer be- 
comes loaded, it is drawn up and emptied ; and in, 
time, by the addition of new portions of wooden 
pipe, the boring is carried to any depth, and. water 
is generally obtained. 

9. To keep Ponds and artificial pieces of Wciier free 

from Weeds, 

At the marquis of Exeter's seat, near Burghley, 
there is an artificial piece of water, about a mile in 
length, which used to be so overrun with weeds, 
that three men were employed constantly, for six 
months in every year, to keep them under, in which 
they never perfectly succeeded. About seven years 
ago, two pair of sw^ns "were put on the ivater j— 



WATER FEXCEf;. 4.> 

they completely cleared away all the weeds the first 
year, and none have appeared since, as the swan^ 
constantly eat them before they rise to the surface. 

10. Method of draining Ponds in level Grounds, 

At a certain distance below the surface of the 
earth, there sometimes is a stratum of loose sand, 
which freely admits the passage of water. This 
stratum is at various depths, in different elevations ; 
but it will be generally found, that lands most sub- 
ject to stagnant ponds have but a shallov/ stratum of 
clay over the sand. All that is necessary, there- 
fore, is to dig a pit in the bottom of the pond, till 
you arrive at this stratum of sand, when the water 
will be immediately absorbed, and the pond emp- 
tied. 



SECT. IV.— FENCES. 

11 . To make a Quickset Hedge or Fence, 

Quick fences often become open in many places 
at bottom, notwithstanding the utmost attention, 
and more especially if neglected. The barberry 
shrub, on the contrary, will make an impenetrable 
fence, and always close at the bottom, because it 
puts up numerous suckers from the roots, which fill 
every vacancy. It may as easily be raised from 
the berries as quick or hawthorn, and it grows fas- 
ter. The suckers also will strike root easily, espe- 
cially if planted early. These shrubs may be had 
at most nurseries. The barberry, however, can 
never make so strong a fence as a good well trained 
hawthorn hedge. But there are situations where it 
may be preferable ; on the top of a high bank, (for 
it is comparatively a li|jht shrub,) as in the Devon- 



44 AGRICULTURE. 

shire hedges, for mixing with other plants in a 
hedge, or stopping gaps in an old hedge. For the 
last purpose the common sweet-briar (the'seedlings 
of which may be raised in almost any situation for 
IO5. a thousand) is^also excellent. 

12. To train Evergreen and other Hedges, 

Evergreen hedges may beclipt about the begin- 
ning, but no later than the middle of April, as by 
that time they will begin to grow, and it is proper 
that this work should be previously performed. 
Some content themselves with clipping but once a 
year, in which case the end of July, or 1st of Au- 
gust, is a better time. 

In trimming these, or indeed any hedge intended 
as a close fence, they should be dressed up to a thin 
edge at top, as otherwise they are apt to get full of 
gaps below ; and the cause is obvious, that the un- 
der part, in square or cut hedges, is too much shad- 
ed by the upper part. Now, by sloping the sides, 
every partof th^e hedge is freely exposed to the air, 
nor is in an}^ part over-dropped by another. A 
Bedge, intended merely as a fence, .need seldom be 
more than five feet high, or at most six. Screen 
hedges may be allowed to run to any height thought 
necessary for that purpose, neither is it requisite to 
trim them so often as fence hedges ; once a year, or. 
in two years, may be sufficient. 

In the training of any hedge, it should not be 
topped or shortened, until it has arrived at a full 
y^rd in height; but it may then have a little taken 
off the points, in order to make it bush the better, 
and shoot of a more regular height afterwards. The 
sides, however, should be trimmed from the second 
or third year of planting, that it may grow the more 
complete and close below, for therein consists the 
excellence of any fence. It should not, in top- 



TEA3rS». 4$ 

pmg, at any time, while in training, be much cut 
in, as that would make it push the stronger at top, 
to the detriment of the sides. When fence hedges 
outgrow their limits, they must of course be cut 
cither wholly or partly down ; but if they be tolera- 
Bly well kept, it is seldom necessary to cut them 
down more than half to the ground. 



SECT, v.— TEAMS. 

i 3. Great Advantage of Ploughing with Oxm ii\r 
stead of Horses, 

A team of four young horses will frequently cost 
a hundred or a hundred and twenty guineas, and in 
six or seven years time will be mere jades ; whereas, 
en the other hand, a much less siim will purchase 
four capital six-year old oxen, which, after they 
have worked five or six years, and have been kept 
at two thirds of the expense of horses, will fetch as 
much, or more, than their first cost. 

Reniark, — The advantage of preferring oxen to 
horses, however, is disputed by the most eminent 
practical farmers. The principal point is, that the 
profit of a farmer, particularly in bad seasons, often 
depends on the getting his work done within a given 
lime. In emergencies, a horse may be fed up to 
almost any work. But an ox, however fed, will 
sink under his labour, if tasked beyond his ordina- 
ry rale. The farmer docs not lose his half-worked 
horses, for there is a demand for them by higglers, 
l^etty carriers, and others, to whom of course he 
sells them when they become less fit than at first for 
his more severe work. The argument is stated as 
fully, and perhaps as temperately, in the article 
•' Agriculture^'''' in the ''^Edinburgh Enci^clopwdia^-' 



■^g AGRICULT'JRiEo- 

as in any other place. It is too long for this eoi- 
lection. 

14. Useful Hints relative to Carters and Teams of 

Oxen* 

Do not retard tiie growth of your beasts of clraf^> 
endanger their health, render them insignificant in 
the eyes of the many, and disgustful to their keep- 
ers, by working them too young. There is no dan- 
ger of their becoming unmanageable; noserings 
reclaim them, be they ever so riotous; neverthe- 
less, the younger they are inured to light work, the 
more docile they will generally become. 

Do not expect that they can work constantly, on 
straw, nor expect to find them alert and spirited, 
while their buttocks are clodded with dung, and 
their coats throughout are filled with dirt and ver- 
min. 

Divide them into teams of four; let each team be 
fed by its respective carter. To give the man con- 
sequence with his fellow-servants, provide him with 
a curry comb lacquered on the back, and a brush 
bound with gilt leather. With these he will take 
a delight in combing ofl[ the dirt, and brushing out 
the dust and filth. The ox, too, after the sensation 
becomes familiar, partakes in the pleasure, and will 
momentarily forego his meal to receive the full en- 
joyment. His feeder perceives this, and brushes 
the part which gives the most pleasure. The ox 
shews his gratitude by wagging his tail ; the carter, 
in return, calls him by his name, and ingratiates 
himself with him. Thus, not only an intimacy but 
a mutual aifection is formed, which at once gives 
attention to the keeper, and docility to the ox, and 
renders the labour of both pleasant. 

A good carter feeds his cattle early and late, and 
by little and little, being careful not to giye more.a^ 
(»ace tjian they will eat immediately. 



MANURES. 47 

Their tabour and their fodder ought to be so pro- 
portioned, that their health and their spirits are 
kept in full tone. Their coats ought to be sleek : 
their hides loose and silky ; the flank should fill the 
hand ; and the shoulder handle mellow. If they 
be overworked or under fed, disease and sluggish- 
ness must inevitably follow. A working ox ought 
always to 6e ^ee/*, that, in case of accident, he may 
grace, at least, the poor man's table. 

If oxen be introduced into a horse-team country, 
not only attention, but some address is necessary. 



SECT. VI.— MANURES. 

15. Manure for Clover. 

Some farmers make it a rule to spread about fifty 
bushels per acre of ashes over their clover in 
March, which they find, from long experience, to 
be a good manure for this grass. Wood-ashes will 
be useful on any soil ; coal-ashes chiefly on stiff 
clays. On the stiff soils of some parts of Bucking- 
hamshire, ashes of all kinds are much esteemed, and 
have risen to a high price. 

16. Utility of Pigeoii^s Dung as a Manure, 

Pigeon's dung will improve moist meadows very 
much by extirpating bad kinds of grasses, bringing 
white clover in its stead, and augmenting the crop^ 

1 7. For Compost Dunghills^ 

Mix one hundred loads of earth with ten chal- 
.drons of lime (a chaldron is thirty-six bushels) a- 
bout May ; let them lie together until the lime is fall- %> 
\en, but not run to mortar^ then tura it over; lay 



4S- AGRICULTURE. 

•seventy loads of stable dung close to it. When 
the dung is in a high putrid heat, which will per- 
haps be in four months, lay a layer of this and a 
layer of earth, two thirds of manure to one of 
earth, and so go through the hill ; turn it over in 
the spring, and lay it on in March or Aprii; eight 
ioads on an acre of grass. 

18. Another Compost, 

Mix lime and earth as beTore, and turn it ; then 
cover it with soil from privies, and coal-ashes about 
'One third in quantity : lay it on the top for some 
months, in an oblong heap ; then turn, and mix all 
together, letting it lie some months longer; and lay 
about eight loads on an acre of grass. 

1 9. Experiment in manuring Land, 

As a farmer, like a chemist, should lose none of 
bis materials, but even make his washings, runnings, 
and residuums, turn out to his advantage, I have 
sent you some account of an experiment I have 
made in manuring of land, which 1 beg you will lay 
before the committee of agriculture, that they may 
communicate it to others. 

I am possessed of a farm of near three hundred 
pounds a year, and have in my yard what you usu- 
ally see in most farmer- s yards, two recesses or 
]}ools, as reservoirs of dung and water. These re- 
servoirs of dung and water are continually running 
over, and of course part of the matter contained in 
them is carried off by the necessaiy drains, into the 
highways, ditches, and rivers. 

As much of the essential quality of the dung is 
lost in this manner, (for part of the salts, whether 
fixed or volatile, will be washed into the pools, and 
when they run over, will be conveyed into the 
ditchesj &;c.) I thought it a part of good husbandrjr 



^lANURES. 40 

te carry this superabundant water or manure, (for so 
we may justly call it,) on my land, which I did by 
means of a watering-cart, not unlike those with 
which the roads near Londoti are watered in sum- 
mer-tinie, to allay the dust. 

That the experiment might be the more obvious 
and certain, I first tried it in the beginning of 
March, on a few acres, in the middle of a large 
field of wheat, where, in a liltle time, I found a con- 
siderable increase in growth, both of grass and 
grain ; and at hay-time and harvest, both the one 
and the other were much better crops than what the 
same lands produced that were not so manured* 

As a man, or even a boy, with one of these carts, 
and one horse, may manure a great deal of Jand in 
a day, provided it be near the yard, I would recom- 
mend the practice to all farmei's ; for the expense 
is nothing but the value of the time of the boy and 
horse, and the increase by what I have seen will be 
very great. 

This manure may be also laid to great advantage 
on land, that is fresh sown with barley, oats, or any 
other grain ; but on grass it should be laid in the 
winter time, when the rains will wash the salts off 
•the blades ; or in the spring, when the lands are laid 
lip for hay, as the cattle will not feed on the grass 
while the dung or salt adheres to the blade of it. . 

This dung water should likewise be carried on the 
land, not at a time when it rains, but in dry vveath- 
or, and at a time when the dung water in the pools 
is of a deep brown colour, and strongly impregnat- 
ed with salts. By this means the land may be ma- 
nured from time to time, and the pools kept almost 
empty for the reception of fresh matter almost every 
time it rains, and nothing will be lost. 



30 AGRICULTURE. 

20. Dr. Taylor'^ s Easy Method of ascertaining the 
Qualihcs of Marle^ Lime Stones, or Quick Lime, 
for the PmjjQses of Agriculture, 

This was a communication by Dr. Taylor to the 
Manchester Agricultural Society : the general use 
of marie and lime, as manures, having prompted 
him to point out the importance of an easy and cer- 
tain method of determining the qualities of different 
earlhs and stones, and ascertaining the quantity of 
calcareous earth in their composition ; their value, 
in agriculture, commonly increasing in proportion 
to the greater quantity of it which they contain. 
The process recommended is thus described. — The 
tnarle or stone being dried, and reduced to powder, 
put half an ounce of it into a half pint glass, pour- 
ing in clear water till the glass is half full ; then 
gradually add a small quantity of strong marine acid, 
commonly called spirit of salt, and stir the mixture 
well together. As soon as the effervescence thus 
excited subsides, add a little more marine acid : 
thus continuing the operation while any of the ear- 
thy matter appears to dissolve ; and till the liquor, 
after being well stirred and allowed to stand for half 
an hour, appears sensibly acid to the taste. When 
the mixture has subsided, if the liquor above it be 
colourless, that marie or lime stone is the best which 
leaves the least in quantity of sediment or deposit 
at the bottom of the glass. This experiment is suf- 
ficient to determine which of the samples tried is 
most proper forthe uses of agriculture ; as pure cal- 
careous earth or lime, which is the earth useful in 
agriculture, will be entirely dissolved, but clay or 
sand will not be sensibly acted on by the acid. 
Where great accuracy is required in determining the 
experiment, lay a soft spongy paper, of which the 
weight is exactly taken, in an earthen colander — for 
no metallic vessel, or implement for stirripg, &c. 



CULTUiRE OF CROPS. 51 

must be used in any part of the process — and, pour- 
ing the saturated mixture of earth and acid on it, let 
all the liquor filtre through ; then pour a little clear 
water over the eai'thy matter remaining on the filter ; 
and, when that water has also filtered through, dry 
the paper with the earthy matter on it which re- 
mains undissolved, when the deficiency found, on 
weighing them, from their ori^^inal weight, v.ill dis- 
cover what portion of the raarle or lime has been 
dissolved in the acid. What quantity of earthy 
matter has been dissolved, may be made evident to 
the sight, by gradually adding, to the liquor w^hich 
has been filtered through the papei-, a clear solu- 
tion of pearl ashes, or ashes of burnt wood ; this 
will occasion a precipitation of the contained lime 
or calcareous earth to the bottom of the vessel, 
which precipitate must be dried and weighed. 

SECT. VII.— CULTURE, &c. OF CROPS. 

21. Easy Method of discovering 7vhether or not 

Seeds are sufficiently ripe. 

Seeds, when not sufficiently ripe, will swim, but 
when arrived at full maturity, they will be found 
uniformly to fall to the bottom ; a fact that is said to 
hold equally true of all seeds, from the cocoa nut io 
the orchis. 

22. To preserve Seeds, when sown, from Vermin, 

Steep the grain or seed three or four hours, or a 
sufficient time for it to penetrate the skin, or husk, 
'm a strong solution of liver of sulphur. 

23. Striped Grass recommended for Hay. 

The Indian striped or ribband grass, which is 
cultivated in gardens, would answer admirably for 
hay. In rich grounds plants are frequently four feet 
high ; what a burden of hay would a field so crop- 
puu produce! Cattle are exceedingly fond of it; 



02 AGRICULTURE; 

the seeds are easily saved, so that a person might 
soon have enough for a rood, and from that save a^ 
gain and again, for as many acres as he might chuse. 
it is probable that the crop might be much too large 
to be made on the field where it grew ; if so, it would 
be worth while to carry part into another field. 

24. When to cut Rye-Grass for Hay, 

Rye-grass, if mown for hay, should be cut when 
in blossom, and not green. The hay made from it 
does not heat or sweat so much, and is very good 
for horses, but. not for sheep and cattle. If it is suf- 
fered to stand too long before it is cut, the seeds 
rob the plants of their juices, and leave it no bet- 
ter than wheat or ryo. straws 

25. To prevent Hay -Stacks from taking fire* 

When there is any reason to fear that the hay, 
which is intended to be housed or stacked, is not 
sj-fTiciently dry, it is only necessary to scatter a few 
Landfuls of common salt (muriate of soda) between 
each layer. It would be very ill judged to regret 
this triiling expense, for the salt, by absorbing the 
humidity of the hay, not only prevents the ferment- 
ation and consequent inflammation of it, but it also 
adds a taste to this forage, which stimulates the ap- 
petites of cattle, assists their digestion, and preserves 
them from many diseases. 

Remark, — The cattle like a little salt, but it has 
litde effect in preventing inflammation. 

26. Method of preventing the Smut in Wheat, 

I have seen a great deal, read a great deal, heard 
a great deal, of the benefits arising from steeping 
seed wheat in brines and other preparations, to pre- 
vent its being smutty : some have answered, others 
have miscarried ; but I always observed that if the, 
seed was well washed, it failed not. I took the hint,, 
and washed well, in a large tub, soiuc ^^cd i i* 



iKarioi 



CULTURE OF CROPS. 63 

to be smutty. I washed it in plain simple water, 
stirring it violently with birchen brooms, and took 
care, from time to time, to skim oii'thc light corn, 
impurities, &c. It answered well, and I have con- 
tinued the practice ever since. Let your practical 
readers try it, and it will do the same. 

27. To prevent the Smut in Wheat. 

The m.eans to prevent smut are simple; and no 
other than immersing the seed in pure water, and 
repeatedly scouring it therein, just before it is sown 
or dibbled in^ ^Vhether well, spring, or river wa- 
ter be used, is indifferent ; but repeated stirring and 
change of water is essential to remove the possible 
particles of infection that may have imperceptibly 
adhered to the seed. Thus purified, the subsequent 
crop v/ill be perfect in itself, and seed successively 
so likewise, if there be no adjacent lields from 
whence this contamination may be v/afted. The 
addition of any alkaline or earthy salt, by increas- 
ing the specific gravity of the water, is of advantage 
in floating off the unsound grains, and after the seed 
is washed it should be dried immediately, by rub- 
bing it with newly slacked lime. 

28. Fertilising Steeps for Turnips, Wheat, or Bar lei/. 

Steep turnip seed twelve hours in train oil, which 
strain through a fine sieve, and immediately tho- 
roughly mix the quantity of seed you would wish to 
sow on an acre with three bushels of dry loamy earth, 
finely sifted, which drill (or sow) as soon as possi- 
ble ; and when the plants begin to appear, throw a 
small quantity of soot over them. 

29. Steep for Wheat, Barley, or other Grain, 

Put a peck and a half of wood ashes, and a peck 
of mislacked lime, into a tub that will hold forty gal- 
lons ; then add as much water as will slake the lime, 
and render the mixture into the consistence of §tirf 

£2 



54 AGRICULTURE* 

mortar. In this state it should remain ten or twelve 
hours ; then add as much water as will reduce the 
mortar to a pulp by thorough stirring. In this stat 
fill the tub with water, and occasionally keep stir 
ring for two or three days. After which, draw o 
the clear lye into an open vessel, and gradually pu 
the grain into it : skim off the light grains ; and af- 
ter the corn has been steeped three hours, spread it 
on a clean floor to dry, when it will be sufficiently 
prepared for drilling or sowing. The lye will re> 
tain its full virtue, and may be repeatedly used. 

Remark,-^-^li has been doubted whether steeps are 
of any use, except so far as they focilitate the sepa- 
ration of the light grains, and wash off the seeds of 
the parasite plants, which are thought to occasion 
smut, &;c. In the l3est cultivated parts of Scotland, 
seed wheat is steeped, in stale urine, or in a brine- 
made with common salt, which, by increasing the 
specific gravity of the water, floats the unsound 
grains. The seed is w^ell washed, and then dried, 
fly mixing it with fresh slacked lime, and rubbing it; 
briskly with a wooden shovel. The quick lime and 
rubbing is thought to assist in cleansing the seed ; 
but, independent of that, the mere drying the seei 
quickly is convenient.. 

30. To sozu Wheat to advantage without laying OU: 

Manure, 

It has been found expedient sometimes to sow 
"wheat without laying on any manure; and, in the 
beginning of February, to collect twenty bushels of 
}ime, unslacked, for every acre, and forty bushels of 
sand, and the rubbish of a brick-kiln ; then, about 
the end of the month, to slake the lime, which dou* 
bles the measure, and mix it well with the sand, and 
immediately afterwar4s to scatter it by way of top- 
dressing over the green wheat. As rain generally 
succeeds, it is goon washed down to the roots of the, 




CULTURE OF CROPS. BQr, 

plants, and gives ihem a vigour and strength which,. 
io those who never made the experiment, is aston-^ 
ishing. The lime, sand, and rubbish, are particu-. 
hrly useful in breaking the tenacity of stiff clays.. 
In a clay soil, where coal was very cheap, the clay. 
wa,S slightly burned in the field, and spread over, 
the surface,, as the cheapest way of subduing the 
coarseness and stiffness of the soil. The refuse or 
rubbish from mines in the neighborhood has been 
burned and applied with., advantage on the same 
principle. 

31. Appraved Mvthod of Sowing Wheat on Kdrroxu 

Ridges, 

The seedsman should walk up one side of the bed 
and down the other side, always keeping his face, 
and the hand with which he sows, towards the bed 
he is sowing : hh eye must, be continually on the 
edge of the opposite interfurrow, and deliver his 
seed principally on the side of the bed next to it : 
as he returns, the sides will of course be reversed, 
and the beds become evenly seeded.. 

32. Great Utility/ of sozving Buck- Wheat. 

In light lands buck-wheat may be raised to great 
advantage, as a lucrative crop. When green it is a 
fine feed for milch kine, and when ploughed is a fine 
preparation for the land. It fattens pigs with great 
economy, and, passed through the mill, is, with car- 
rot, a capital feed for work horses. The seed i.s 
excellent food for poultry, and when ground makes 
good bread.. 

33. To keep Crows from Corn,. 

Take a quart of train oil, as much turpentine and 
bruised gunpowder, boil them together, and, when 
hot, dip pieces of rags in the mixture, and fix them 
on sticks in the field. About four are sufficient for 
an acre of corn. 



5b ^ AGRICULTURE. 

34. Proper Soil for (he Culture of Turnips, 

Sandy loams, in pjood heart, are most favorable to 
their growth, though they will thrive well on strong 
loams, if not wet; but on clayey, thin, or v/et soils, 
they are not worth cultivating; for though a good 
crop may be raised on such ground, when well pre- 
pared and dunged, more damage is done by taking 
off the turnips in winter, in poaching the soil, than 
the value of the crop will repay.. 

35. Instructions for raising Potatoes to advantage. 

The earth should be dug twelve inches deep, if 
the soil will allow it : after this, a hole should be 
opened about six inches deep, and horse dung, or 
long litter, should be put therein, about three inches 
thick : this hole should not be more than tv/elve in- 
ches diameter. Upon this dung, or litter, a- potatoe 
should be planted whole,, upon which a little more- 
dung should be shaken, and then the earth must be 
put thereon.. In like manner the whole plot of 
ground must be planted, taking care that the pota- 
toes be set at least sixteen inches apart. When the 
young shoots make their appearance they should 
have fresh mould drawn round them with a hoe, and 
if the tender shoots are covered, it will, prevent the 
frost from injuring them :. they should again be earth- 
ed when the shoots make a second appearance, but 
not covered, as, in all probability, the season will 
be less severe. 

A plentiful supply of mould should be given them, 
and the person who performs this business should 
never tread upon, the plant, or the hillock that is 
raised round it, as, the lighter the earth is, the more 
room the potatoe will have to expand. 

A gentleman obtained from a single root thus 
planted, very near forty pounds weight of large po- 
tatoes; and, from almost every other root upon the 
■aixme plot of groand, from fifteen to twenty pounds 



PRESEKVATION OF CORN AND VEGETABLES. 5'T 

weight ; and, except the soil be stony or gravelly, 
ten pounds, or half a peck, of potatoes may almost 
be obtained from each root, by pursui^jg the fore- 
going method. 

36. Prcparallon for Carrots and other ziringed Seeds, 

Take two bushels of dry loamy earth, finely sift- 
ed ; to which add one bushel of bran, and a sufficient 
quantity of carrot seed, cleaned from stalks, and well 
rubbed between the hands; all which thoroughly 
mix together, and drill (or sow.) The carrot seed 
will stick to the bran, which, with the earth, will 
be regularly discharged. 



SECT. VIII. PRESERVATION OF CORN 

AND VEGETABLES. 

37. Important discovert/ relcdive to the Preservation 

of Corn. 

To preserve rye, and secure it from insects and 
rats, nothing more is necessary than not to winnow 
it after it is thrashed, but merely separate it from 
the straw, and to stow it in the granaries mixed 
\vith the chaff. In this stale it has been kept for 
more than three years, without experiencing the 
smallest alteration, and even without the necessity 
of being turned to preserve it from humidity and. 
fermentation.. Rats and mice may be prevented 
from entering the barn, by putting some wild vine or 
hedge plants upon the heap ; the smell of the wood 
is so oftensive to these animals, that they will not 
approach it. The experiment has not yet been 
made with wheat and other kinds of grain, but they 
may probably be preserved in the chaff with equal 
advantage. It must however be observed, that the 
husks and corns of rye are different from most other 
grain. It has been sown near houses, where many 
noultrv were kept for the purpose of bringing up a. 



38 AGRICULTURE. 

crop of grass, because the poultry do not destroy li,- 
as they would have done wheat, oats, or even barley 
in the same situation. 

38. To preserve Corn in Sacks, 

Provide a reed cane, or other hollow stick, made 
so by gluing together two grooved sticks ; let it be a- 
bout three ieai nine inches long ; and that it may 
be the easier thrust down to the bottom of the corn 
in the sack, its end be made to taper to a point, by 
a wooden plug that is fixed in, and stops the orifice. 
About one hundred and fifty small holes, of one 
eighth of an inch in diameter, are to be bored on all 
sides of the stick, from its bottom for about two ieQt 
ten inches of its length ; but no nearer to the surface 
of the corn, lest too great a proportion of the air 
should escape there. By winding a packthread in 
a spiral form round the stick, the boring of the Holes 
may be the better regulated, so as to have them a- 
bout half an inch distant towards the bottom, but 
gradually at wider distances, so- as to be an inch 
asunder at the upper part; by which means the 
lower part of the corn will have its due proportion 
of fresh air. To the top of the stick let there be fix- 
ed a leathern pipe ten inches long ; which pipe is 
to be distended by two yards of spiral wire, coiled 
up within it. At the upper part of the pipe is fixed- 
a taper wooden fasset, into which the nose of a 
common household belows is to be put, i-n order to 
ventilate the corn. 

If corn, when first put into sacks, be thus aired, 
ewery other or third day, for ten or fifteen minutes, 
its damp sweats, which would hurt it, will, in a few 
weeks, be carried ofif to such a degree, that it will 
afterwards keep sweet witii very little airing, as has 
Been found by experience. 

By the same means other kinds of seeds, as well 
as corn, may be kept sweet either in sacks or small 
bins. 



TRESERVATION OP CORN AND VEGETABLES. 5^ 

39. To preserve Oats from being musty, 

Richard Furmorc, Esq. of Tusmorc, in Oxford- 
shire, has, in his stable, a contrivance to let oats 
'^own from a loft out of a vessel, like the hopper of 
a mill, whence they fall into a square pipe, let into 
a wall about four inches diagonal, which comes into 
a cu])board set into a wall, but with its end so near 
the bottom, that there shall never be above a de- 
sirable quantity in the cupboard at a time, which 
being taken away, another parcel succeeds ; by this 
motion the oats are kept constantly sweet, (the tak- 
ing away one gallon moving the whole above) 
which, when laid up otherwise in great quantities, 
frequently grow musty. 

40. Easy Method of destroying Mites or Weevils in 

Granaries. 

A very sagacious farmer has succeeded in de- 
stroying weevils by a very easy process. In the 
month of June, when his granaries were all empty, 
he collected great quantities of the largest sized 
ants, and scattered them about the places infested 
with the weevils. The ants immediately fell upon 
and devoured everyone of them ; nor have any wee- 
vils since that time been seen on his premises. 

Remark, — The large, or wood ant, feeds entirely 
on animal substances, of course it would not destroy 
the corn. 

41. To preserve Carrots^ Parsnips^ and Beets all 

the Winter, 

A little before the frost sets in, draw your beets 
or parsnips out of the ground, and lay them in the 
house, burying their roots in sand to the neck of the 
plant, and ranging them one by another in a shelv- 
ing position ; then another bed of sand, and another 
of beets, and continue this order to the last. By 
pursuing this method, they will keep very fresh. — 
When they are wanted for use, draw them as they 
stand, not out of the middle or sides. 



#0 AGRICULTURE. 

42. To preserve Turnips from Frost, 

The best way is to stack them up in straw in tte 
following manner :— One load of any dry straw is 
sufficient for an acre of fifty tons weight. Pull up 
the turnips, top and tail them, then throw them in 
a sort of windrow, and let them lie a few d^^ys to 
dry. 

First, lay a layer of straiv n^xt the ground, and 
^pon it a layer of turnips about half a yard thick ; 
then another layer of straw ; so go on alternately 
wilh a layer of straw and a layer of turnips; every 
layer grows narrower, till it comes to a point at the 
top like a sugar loaf. The last layer must be straw, 
which serves to keep all dry. You must observe 
always when you have laid a layer of turnips, to 
stroke or lap over the ends of the under layer of 
straw, in order to keep them close, or from tumbling 
out. The heap should be as large as a hay-cock ; 
the tops may be given to sheep or cattle as they. are 
cut off. 

43. Another* 

Turnips placed in layers, though not thick, have 
been found, after a iQ\Y weeks, to rot. In some 
places the following method is adopted : — Lay the 
turnips ciose together in a single layer, on a grass 
field, near the farm yard-, and scatter some straw 
and branches of trees over them : this will preserve 
them from sudden alterations of frost and thaw. — 
They keep as well as stored turnips can do. The 
bare grass is of no value in winter, and may rather 
perhaps receive some benefit from the shelter of the 
turnip. An immense quantity may thus be stored 
on a small extent of grass-ground. It is chiefly use' 
ful for small farmers, in soils unfit for the turnip, but 
who are forced to raise it for mUk-cows, or to sup- 
port in the winter, the sheep they feed in the sum- 
mer on the commons, and which they keep per- 
haps principally in the night on the fields they have 



AGRICULTURE. ^1 



7)0 Other means of manuring. But it may be useful 
even on proper turnip soils, to save the latter part 
of the crop from the sudden frosts and sunshine in 
the spring, or in an open winter, which rot so great 
a portion of it ; perhaps a fourth or third part of 
what is then on the ground. 



^ect. ix. protection of growing 

crops from the devastation of 
Vermin. 

44. The good Effects of Elder in preserving Plants 

from Insects and Flics, 

1 . For preventing cabbage and cauliflower plants 
from being devoured and damaged by caterpillars. 

2. For preventing blights, and their effects on 
fruit trees. 

3. For preserving corn from yellow flies and 
other insects. 

4. For securing turnips from the ravages of flies. 
The dwarf elder appears to exhale a much more 

fostid smell than the common elder, and therefore 
should be preferred. 

45. The Use of Sulphur in destroying Insects on 

Plants, and its Benefit for Vegetation, 

Tie up some flower of sulphur in a piece of mus- 
}in or fine linen, and with this the leaves of young 
shoots of plants should be dusted, or it may be 
thrown on them by the means of a common swans- 
down puff, or even by a dredging-box. 

Fresh assurances have repeatedly been received 
of the powerful influence of sulphur against the 
whole tribe of insects and worms which infest and 
prey on vegetables. Sulphur has also been found 
to promote the health of plants, on which it was 
sprinkled ; and that peach trees, in particular, were 
remarkably improved by it, and seemed to absorb 

F 



62 PEOTECTION OF CROPS FROM VERMIN. 

it. It has likewise been observed, that the verdure, 
and other healthful appearances, were perceptibly 
increased ; for the quantity of new shoots and leaves 
formed subsequently to the operation, and having 
Jio sulphur on their surfaces, served as a kind en 
comparative index, and pointed out distinctly the 
accumulation of health. 

46. Methods of stopping the Ravages of the Cater- 
pillars from Shrubs, Plants, and Vegetables. 

Take a chaffing-dish, with lighted charcoal, and 
place it under the branches of the tree, or bush, 
whereon are the caterpillars; then throw a little 
brimstone on the coals. The vapour of the sul- 
phur, which is mortal to these insects, and the suf- 
focating fixed air arising from the charcoal, will not 
only destroy all that are on the tree, but will effectu- 
ally prevent the shrubs from being, that season, in- 
fested with them. A pound of sulphur will clear as 
many trees as grow on several acres. 

Another method of driving these insects off fruit- 
trees, is to boil a together quantity of rue, worm- 
wood, and common tobacco (of each equal parts,) 
in common water. The liquor should be very 
strong. Sprinkle this on the leaves and young 
branches every morning and evening during the time 
the fruit is ripening. 

In the Economical Journal of France, the fol- 
lowing method of guarding cabbages from the depre- 
dations of caterpillars is stated to be infallible, and 
and may, perhaps, be equally serviceable against 
those which infest other vegetables. Sow with 
hemp all the borders of the ground wherein the cab- 
bage is planted ; and, although the neighbourhood 
be infested with caterpillars, the space inclosed by 
the heftip will be perfectly free, and not one of these 
vermin will approach it. 



AGRICULTURE. 63 

47» To prevent the Increase of Pismires in Grass- 
Lands ncivly laid down. 

Make a strong decoction of walnut-tree leaveSj 
and after openifig several of the pismire's sandy 
habitations, pour upon them a quantity of the li- 
quor, just sufficient to fill the hollow of each heap : 
after the middle of it has been scooped, throw in 
the contents from the sides, and press down (he 
whole mass wnth the foot, till it becomes level with 
the rest of the field. This, if not found eftectual at 
first, must be repeated a second or a third time, 
when they infallibly will be destroyed. 

48. Liquor for destroying Caterpillars, Ants, and 

other Insects, 

Take a pound and three quarters of soap, the 
same quantity of flower of sulphur, two pounds of 
champignons, or pufF balls, and fifteen gallons of 
w^ater. When the whole has been well mixed, by 
the aid of a gentle heat, sprinkle the insects with 
the liquor, and it will instantly kill them. 

49. To destroy Ants, 

Ants are destroyed by opening the nest, and put- 
ting in q:uicklime, and throwing water on it. 

50. 7h prevent the Fly in Turnips, 

Sow good and fresh seed in well manured and 
well prepared ground. 

51. To prevent the Desiniciion of Field Turnips hif 

Slugs, 

A few years since, a considerable farmer, neaf 
Bath, observing the turnips in one of his fields 
strongly attacked by something, discovered, by ac- 
cident, that the enemy was really a slug, and im- 
mediately prevented farther damage by well roll- 
ing the whole field, by night, which killed all the 
?lugs» 



64 PROTECTION OF CROPS FROM VERMUTr 

N. B. This was the grand secret which was ad- 
vertised for two thousand subscribers, at one guinea 
each^ by W. Vagg, for destroying the fly in turnipSj 
which it will not do ! 

52. For preventing Flies from: destroying the Seed' 

ling Leaves of Turnips^ ^g. 

Mix six ounces of flower of brimstone with three 
pounds of turnip seed, daily, for three days succes- 
sively, in an earthen-glazed pot, and keep it close 
covered, stirring all together well at each addition, 
that the seed may be the more tainted with the sul- 
phur : this will sow an acre of ground, and let the 
tventher come wet or dry, it will keep the fly off till 
the third or fourtli seeding leaf is formed ; and by 
this time they will all be somewhat bitterish, and 
consequently very much out of danger of this little 
black flying insect, which, in summer time, maybe 
seen in swarms, on the wing, near the ground, 
searching for, and settling on fresh bites, till they 
ruin thousands of acres. 

53. To prevent Mice from destroying early sown 

Peas, 

The tops of furze, or whins, chopped and thrown 
into the di'ills, and thus covered up (by goading 
them in their attemj:t to scratch) is an effectual pre- 
ventive. Sea sand, strewed pretty thick upon the 
surface, has the same effect* It geis into their ears 
and is troublesome. 

54. Another, 

In the gardens in Devonshire, a simple trap is 
used to destroy mice. A common brick, or flat stone 
is set on one end, inclined at an angle of about forty- 
five degrees. Two strings, lied to a cracked stick, 
stuck in the ground, with loops at the ends of the 
strings, are brought round to the middle of the un- 
der part of the brick, and one loop being put into 



ANGLING. 65 



the other, a pea or bean, or any other bait, makes 
the string fast, so as to support the brick. When 
the animal removes the bait, the loops separate, 
and the brick, by falling, smothers the animal. 



SECT. X.— WEEDS. 

55. Usefulness of mozvin^ Weeds, 

In the month of June, weeds are in their most 
succulent state ; and in this state, especially after 
they have lain a iow hours to wither, hungry cattle 
will eat greedily almost every species. There is 
scarcely a hedge border, or a nook, but what at this 
season is valuable; and it certainly must be good 
management to embrace the transient opportunity; 
for, in a few weeks, they will become nuisances. 

(See also Cattle^ Dairy, Vermin, Wealher, ^-c) 



CHAPTER IT. 
ANGLLYG,— FISHING, 



56, To preserve Fishing Rods, 

Oil your rods, in summer, with linseed oil, dry- 
ing them in the sun, and taking care the parts lie 
flat : they should be ohh\ turned, to prevent them 
from warping. This will render them tough, and 
prevent their being worm-eaten ; in time they will 
acquire a beautiful iyrown colour. Should they 
get wet, which swells the wood, and makes it fast 
in the sockets, turti the part round over the ilame 
of a candle a short time, and it will be easily set 
at liberty. 

3P 2. 



m 



60' AxNGLING. 

57. To make Quilt Floats for Fishing, 

Take any quantity af swan or goose quills yo^ 
may want, cut off the barrel part from that wher^ 
the feathers grow, and, with a thick piece of wire 
wrapped round the end with cotton wool, clear the 
inside of the quill from the film ; put in a small 
piece of pitch, about the size of a sweet pea, and, 
with the wire, force it to the end, ramming it close ; 
this will effectually keep out the water ; put a small 
piece of cotton wool upon the pitch, sufficient, when 
forced close into the quill, to form a space of a 
quarter of an inch, and, upon the cotton, add anoth- 
er piece of pitch of the same size as the first, which 
will secure the cotton, and make the float easily dis- 
cerned on the water ; take a piece of sallow hazel^ 
or other soft wood, about the same size as the cir- 
cumference of the quill, and about two inches long ;; 
fit it neatly about | of an inch into the quill, and fas- 
ten it with a cement made of powdered bees-wax,. 
rosin, and chalk, melted over the fire in a ladle ;: 
dip the plug in when it is sufficiently melted and in- 
corporated, and put into it immediately a piece of 
doubled brass wire, the loop end formed into a. 
3 ound eye, and the other twisted, which will pass 
into the plug like a screw, holding the wire fast with 
a pair of small pliers, and turning the float round.; 
the line passes through the eye of the wire ; the top 
of the float is made fast to the line by a hoop made 
of the t^rrel part of the quill, and rather wider than 
the float, to admit the thickness of the line ; by 
means of this hoop the float may be shifted at plea- 
sure, according to the depth you are inclined to 
fish ; the hoops may be dyed red by the following 
method : — Take some stale urine, and put to it as- 
much Brazil wood in powder as will make it a deep 
red ; then take some fair water, and put a handful 
of salt into it, and a small quantity of argol, stirring 
i^ijjem till they are dissolved j boil theia over the fire 



ANGLING. 67 

in a saucepan, and when cold, put in the quiWs, well 
scraped, and let them lie awhile in it ; then take 
them out, and put them into the urine made red with 
the Brazil wood, and let them continue a fortnight ;. 
when dry, rub them with a woollen cloth, and they 
will b€ transparent. The hoops must be cut with a. 
sharp knife, or the quill will split. 

58. Improved Method o/* making Cork Floats for 

Fishing. 

Take a cork, firm and free from flaws, and with 
a small red-hot iron, bore a hole lengthways through 
the centre ; with a sharp knife cut it across the 
grain about two-thirds of the length, tapering to the 
end where the hole is bored, and the remaining 
third rounded with it, (which is the top of the float) 
in the shape of an egg, the lower end tapering more 
gradually, resembling in shape the small peg-tops 
children play with. 

59. Easy Method of dying Fishing Lines, 

Lines of silk or hemp may be coloured by a 
strong decoction of oak bark, which, it is believed, 
renders them more durable, and resists the water ; 
it gives them an excellent russet-brown colour, and 
any shade of it may be obtained, by the time they 
remain in the decoction, which should be cold. 

60. To prevent Fishing Lines from rotting. 

Never wind your lines on your reel wet ; at least, 
when you get home, wrap them round the back of a 
chair, and let them be thoroughly dried, otherwise 
they will soon rot, and cannot be depended on j 
with this care they will last a considerable time. 

61. To prevent taking Cold while Jingling, 

Avoid sitting upon the ground, though it may ap- 
pear dry, for the heat of the body will cause a mois-^ 
tui'e which soon cools, and may be sensibly felt. If 



68 ANGLING. 

the angler, through age or infirmity, is incapable of 
standing long, a piece of coarse woollen cloth, dou- 
bled two or three times, will be very useful to sit 
upon, especially in fishing for barbel, roach, and 
dace, where the angler is confined to one place. 

62. To improve the Sport of Angling, by Jiltention 

to the Dress, 

Some attention should be paid to the colour of an 
angler's dress ; it is natural to conclude, that green 
would be most eligible, as it would vary little from 
those objects with which fish are familiarised, such 
as trees growing near the sides of rivers, and herb- 
age on the banks ; yet, as this particular colour 
rrjightbe disagreeable to many,, the angler should a- 
void all strong contrasts to those objects, particular- 
ly scarlet, and very light colours., 

63. Rules for Fly Fishing. 

A fishing fly is a bait used in angling for various 
kinds offish. The fly is either natural or artificial. 
The chief of the natural flies are the " stone fly," 
found under hollow stones at the sides of rivers, 
between April and July; it is brown, with yellow 
streaks, and has large wings. The " green-drake," 
found among stones by river sides ; it has a yello\r 
hody ribbed with green ; it is long and slender, with 
wings like a butterfly, and is common in the spring. 
The " oak fly," found on the body of an oak or ash, 
is of a brown colour, and common during the sum- 
mer months.. The "palmer fly or worm," found 
on the leaves of plants, when it assumes the fly state 
from that of the caterpillar: it is much used in trout 
fishing. The " ant ^vy^.'' found on ant hills from 
June to September, l^e '* May fly," is to be found 
pla> iijg at the river side, especially before rain. 
And the " black fly," which ib to be found upon eve- 
ry hawthorn after tne buds are off. There are two^ 
ways to fish with natural flies, either on the surface 



^ 



ANGLING. &9 

oi the water, or a little underneath it. In angling 
for roach, dace, Szc. the f\y should be allowed to 
glide down the stream to the fish, but in very still 
water the bait may be drawn by the fish, which will 
make him eagerly pursue it. 

There are many sorts of artificial flies to be had 
at the shops ; they are made in imitation of natural 
flies, and the rules for using them are as follow : 
Keep as far from the waters edge as may be, and 
fish down the stream with the sun at your back ; the 
line must not touch the water. Fn clear rivers the 
angler must use small flies with slender wings, but 
in muddy waters a larger fly may be used. After 
rain, when the waters are muddy, an orange-colour- 
ed fly may be used with advantage ; in a clear day, 
the fly must be light coloured, and in dark water 
the fly must be dark. The line should, in general, 
be twice as long as the rod ; but, after all, much 
will depend upon a quick eye and active hand. 
Flies made for catching salmon must have their 
wings standing one behind the other. This fish is 
said to be attracted by the gaudiest colours that can 
be obtained : the wings and tail should be long and 
spreading. 

64, To intoxicate and take Fish* 

Make a paste in the following manner : take cocu- 
Ins indicus, cummin seeds, fenugreek seeds, and co- 
riander seeds, equal parts; reduce them to powder, 
and make them into a paste, with rice-flour and wa- 
ter ; reduce this paste into small balls of the size of 
peas, and throw it into such ponds or rivers where 
there are fish, which, after eating thereof, will rise 
to the surface of the water almost motionless, and 
will allow themselves to be tgken out by the hand. 



70 USEFUL ARTS. 

CHAPTER III. 

USEFUL ARTS. 



65. Beneficial Purpose to rvhich the Juice of Aloes 
may he applied* 

In the East-Indies aloes are employed ns a var- 
nish, to preserve wood from worms and other in- 
sects ; and skins, and even living animals are anoifit- 
ed with it for the same reason. The havorjc com- 
mitted by the white ants in India first suggested the 
trial of aloe juice, to protect wood from them ; for 
which purpose the juice is either used as extracted^ 
or in solution, by some solvent, 

QQ, Eficacy of the Juice of Aloes on Ships Bottoms, 

Aloes have been found effectual in preserving 
ships from the ravages of the worm and the adhesion 
of barnacles. The ship's bottom, for this purpose, 
is smeared with a composition of hepatic aloes, tur- 
pentine, talloWj and white lead. In proof of the ef- 
ficacy of this method, two planks of equal thickness, 
and cut from the same tree, were placed under wa- 
ter, one in its natural state, and the other smeared 
xvith the composition. On taking them up, after 
being immersed eight months, the latter was found 
to be perfect as at first, while the former was en- 
tirely penetrated with insects, and in a state of ab^ 
solute rottenness. 

67. To Bronze Plaster Figures, 

Lay the figure over with isinglass size till it holds 
out, or v/ithout any part of its surface becoming dry 
or spotted; then with a brush, such as is termed by 
painters a sash tool, go over the whole, observing 
carefully to remove any of the size (while it is yet 
soft) that may lodge on the delicate or sharp places. 



USETUL ARTS. 71 

and set it aside to dry : when it has become so, take 
a little very thin oil gold-size, and, with as much of 
it as just damps the brush, go over the figure, al- 
lowing no more of this size to remain than what 
causes it to shine. Set it apart in a dry place, free 
from smoke, and, after it has remained there forty- 
eight hours, the figure is prepared for bronzing. 

The bronze, which is almost an impalpable pow- 
der, (and may be had at the colour shops, of all me- 
tallic colours) should be dabbed on with a little cot- 
ton wool. After having touched over the whole fi- 
gure, let it stand another day ; then, with a soft dry 
brush, rub off all the loose powder, and the figure 
will resemble the metal it is intended to represent, 
and possess the quality of resisting the weather. 

6S, To Blue Swords, Mourning Buckles, 4^c, 

Take a piece of grindstone and whetstone, and 
rub hard on the work, to take off the black scurf 
from it; then heat it in the fire, and as it grows hot 
the colour changes by degrees, coming first to a light 
then to a dark gold colour, and lastly to a blue. — 
Indigo and salad oil, ground together, is also used, 
by rubbing the mixture on the work with a woollen 
cloth, while it is heating, leaving it to cool of itself. 

69, Composition to take off Casts of Medals, 

Melt eight ounces of sulphur over a gentle fire, 
and mix it with a small quantity of fine vermilion ; 
stir it well together, and it will dissolve like oil; 
then cast it into the mould, which is first to be rub- 
bed over with oil. When cool, the figure may be 
taken, and touched over with aquafortis, and it will 
look like fine coral. 

70. Method of Sweeping Chimnics without employing 
Children, and the danger attending the old method 
pointed out* 

Procure a rope for ihe purpose, twice the length 




7^ BSEFCL ARTS* 

of tbe hieight of the chimney : to the middle of it tie 
a bush (broom, furze, or any other,) of sufficient 
size to fill the chimn'cy, (if there be any windings in 
it, tie a, bullet or round stone to the end of the rope,) 
and introduce the wood end of the bush after the 
rope has descended into the room ; then let a per- 
son pull it down. The bush, by the elasticity of 
its twigs, brushes the sides of the chimney as it de- 
scends, and carries the soot with it. If necessary, 
the person at top, who has hold of the other end of 
the rope, draws th^ bush up again ; but, in this case, 
the person below must turn the bush, to send the 
wood end foremost, before he calls to the person at 
lop to pull it up. 

Many people who are silent to the calls of human- 
ity, are yet attentive to the voice of interest : chim- 
neys cleansed in this way never need a tenth part 
of the repairs required when they are swept by chil- 
dren, who, being obliged to work themselves up by 
pressing with their feet and knees on one side, and 
their back on the other, often force out the bricks 
which divide the chimnies. This is one of the cau- 
ses why, in many houses, a fire in one apartment al- 
ways fills the adjoining one with smoke, and some- 
times even the adjoining house. Nay, some hous* 
es have even been burnt by this means ; for, a foul 
chimney, taking fire, has been frequently known to 
communicate, by these apertures, to empty apart- 
ments filled with timber, where, of course, it was not 
thought necessary to make any examination,, after 
extinguishing the fire in the chimney where it began. 

71*. New Method of tlearing Feathers from thtir Au' 

imal Oil, 

Take, for every gallon of clear water, a pound of 
-quick lime ; mix them well together; and, when the 
undissolved lime is precipitated in fine powder, pour 
off the clear lime-water for use at the time it is wan- 



GILDING. 73 

tecl. Put the leathers to1:)e cleaned intinother tub, 
•«ncl add to them a sufficient quantity of the clear 
lime-water to cover the feathers about three inches, 
when well immersed and stirred therein. The fea- 
thers, when thoroughly moistened, will sink down, 
and should remain in the lime-water three or four 
days; after which, the foul liquor should ht sepa- 
rated from the feathers, by laying them on a sieve,. 
The feathers should be afterwards well washed in 
clean -water, and dried on nets, the meshes being 
about the same iincncss as those of cabbnge nct^s. 
The feathers must, from time to time, be shaken on 
"the nets ; and, as they dry, they will fall through 
the meshes, and are to be collected for use. The 
admission of air will be serviceable in the drying, 
and the whole process may be completed in about 
(hree weeks. The feathers, after being thus pre- 
pared, will want nothing more than beating for use, 
either for beds, bolsters, pillows, or cushions. 

72. To preserve the natural Colour in Petals of dri- 

ed Flozvers, 

Nothing more is necessary than to immerse the 
petals for some minutes in alcohol. The colours 
ivill fodc at first ; but in a short time they will re- 
sume their natural tint, and remain permanently 
iixed. 

73. Art of gilding Iron or Steel, 

Dissolve in aqua regia, with the assistance of a 
little heat, as much gold as will fully saturate it; 
ihen, adding cream of tartar, form it into a paste. — 
Any bright piece of steel or iron, such as the blade 
of a knife or razor, &c. being first wetted w ith wa- 
ter, or saliva, and then rubbed with this paste, will 
he instantly gilded in a beautiful manner; after 
which it is to be washed with cold water. If a thick- 
er coat of gold be desired, gold leaf may be laid on, 
and burnished hard, when it will adhere to the first 



•^74 ¥SEPUL ARTS. 

gilding ; and, if the nature of the thing gilded will 
admit of heat, by warming it, but not so as to be- 
come red hot, and then burnishing it, any thickness 
of gilding may be easily added. 

74. Method of Dry Gilding. 

Dry gilding, as it is called by some workmen, is a 
light method of gilding, by steeping linen rags in a 
solution of gold, then burning them ; and with a 
piece of cloth dipped in salt water, rubbing the ash- 
es over silver intended to be gilt. This method re- 
quires neither much labor, nor much gold, and may 
be employed w- ith advantage for carved work and 
ornaments. It is not, however, durable. 

75. Composition for gilding Brass or Silver, 

Take two ounces of gum-lac, two ounces of ka- 
rabe, or yellow amber, forty grains of dragon's 
blood in tears, half a drachm of saffron, and forty 
ounces of good spirits of wine : infuse and digest; 
the whole in the usual manner, and afterwards strain 
it through a linen cloth : when the varnish is used, 
the piece of silver or brass must be heated before it 
is applied : by this means it will assume a gold col- 
cur, which is cleaned, when soiled, with a litde 
warm ^vater. 

76. To make Shell Gold. 

Take the paring of leaf gold, or even the leaves 
themselves, and reduce them into an impalpable 
powder, by grinding them on a marble with honey ; 
put this into shells where it will stick and dry ; 
when you want to use it, dilute it with gum water. 

N. B. Shell silver is made the same way. 

77. To clean Gold and restore its Lustre, 

Dissolve a little sal-ammoniac in urine ; boil your 
foiled gold therein, and it will become clean an^ 



dSEFUL ARXS. 7& 

73. To silver' Glass Globes, 

Take two ounces of quicksilver, one ounce of 
bismuth, of tin and lead half an ounce of each : first 
{lut the tin and lead in fusion, then put in the bis- 
muth, and when you perceive all in fusion, let it 
stand till almost cold, and then pour in the quick- 
silver. 

After this take the glass globe,- which must be 
very clean, and the inside free from dust, make a 
paper funnel, which put in the hole of the globe, 
as near the glass as you can, so that, the amalgam, 
when you pour it in, may not splash and spot the 
glass : pour it in softly, and move it about that the 
amalgam may touch every where ; if you find it 
begin to be curdly, hold it over a gentle heat, and 
it will flow again ; the cleaner and finer your globe 
is, the looking-glass will be the better. 

79. . To cut Glass. 

Take a red-hot shank of a tobacco-pipe, lay it on 
the edge of your glass, which will then begin to 
crack, then draw the shank end a little gently be- 
fore, and it will follow any way you draw your 
hand. 

30. Substitute for Hemp and Flax, 

As hemp and ilax (lint) is now very high-priced, 
if the public would turn their attention to the Urti- 
ca Diocia (common nettle,) an excellent hemp 
might be obtained from it, by cutting it just before 
the seed is ripe; and steeping it in water, as they 
do hemp or flax, and manufacturing it the same 
way ; the root of the plant is esteemed to be diure- 
tic, and the roots, boiled with alum, will dye yarn 
a yellow colour. It is likewise used by making a 
strong decoction of the young plant, and salt put to 
it, and bottled up, which will coagulate milk, and 
make it very agreeable j by which means that plant. 



76 PROCESS RELATING TO IROX. 

which is an obnoxious weed, might be turned to 
good account. 

USEFUL PROCESS RELATIVE TO IRON. 

81. To braze or solder Pieces of Iron. 

This is done by means of thin plates of brass, 
melted between the pieces that are to be joined. 
If the work be very fine, as when two leaves of a 
broken saw are to be brazed together, cover it with 
pulverized borax, melted with water; that it may 
incorporate with the brass powder which is added 
to it : the piece must be then exposed to the fire 
ivithout touching the coals, and heated till the brass 
is seen to run. 

82. Swedish Method fof preserving from Rust Iron 

Work exposed to Air, 

They take such a quantity of pitch and tar as they 
think they have occasion for, and mix up with it 
auch a quantity of the best sort of soot as not to^ 
make it too thick for use ; with this composition they 
paint or besmear all the parts of the iron work, for 
which purpose they mak-e use of short hard brushes, 
because they must press pretty strongly upon the 
iron in order to give it a suMcient quantity, and they 
always choose to perform this operation in the 
spring time of the year, because the moderate heal- 
of the season hardens the pitch so much tfi«t it is 
never melted by the succeeding heals of the sum- 
mer, but, on the contrary, acquires such a gloss as 
to look like varnish. This has been found, by ex- 
perience, to preserve iron from rust much better 
than any sort of paint, and is as cheap as any that 
can be made use of. 

83. Composition that 7vill effcctimlly prevent Iron^ 

Steel, (^'C»from rusting* 

This method consists in mixing, with fat oil var- 



1 



USEFUL ARTS. 77^ 

nihil, four-fifths of well rectified spirit of turpentine^. 
The varnish is to be applied by means of a sponge ; 
and articles varnished in this manner will retain their 
metallic brilliancy, and never contract any spots of 
rust. It may be applied to copper, and to the 
preservation of philosophical instruments ; which^. 
by being brought into contact with water, are lia- 
ble to lose their splendour, and become tarnished, 

84. Td prevent Steel or Iron from Rust, 

Take one pound of hog's lard free from salt, one 
ounce of camphire, two drachms of black lead pow- 
der, and two drachms of dragon's blood in fine pow- 
der; melt the same on a slovv^ fire until it is dissolv- 
ed, and let it cool for use.. 

85. To prevent polhhed Hardware and Cutlery from 

taking Rust, 

Case-knives, snuffers, watch-chains, and other 
small articles made of steel, may be preserved from 
rust, by being carefully wiped after use, and then 
wrapped in coarse brown paper, the virtue of which 
is such, that all hardware goods from Sheffield, Bir- 
mingham, &;c. are always wrapped in the same. 

86. To clear Iron from Rust, . 

Pound some glass to fine powder, and having nail- 
ed some strong linen or woollen cloth upon a board, , 
lay upon it a strong coat of gum water, and sift 
iheieon some of your powdered glass, and let it 
dry; repeat this operation three times, and when 
the last covering of powdered glass is dry, you may 
easily rub off the rust from iron utensils, with the 
cloth thus prepared. 

87. To soften Ivory and Bones, 

Take sage, boil it in strong vinegar, strain the 
decoction through a piece of close cloth; and when, 
you have a mind to soften bones or ivory, steep 

G 2. 




78 



USEFUL ARTS. 



them in this liquor, and the longer they remain in it 
the softer they will grow. 

88. Useful Hints' to Lamplighters, 

As many accidents happen in the winter time by 
the sliding of ladders, the same would never occur,, 
if the following simple method was generally adopt- 
ed. " If a strong nail was put in the top of the lad- 
der, in an horizontal position, accidents could nev- 
er happen, as, when the ladder slides, the nail 
would catch the lamp iron." 

89. Improved Method of taking off Impressions of 

Leaves, Plants, i^-c. 

Take half a sheet of fine wove paper, and oil it 
well with sweet oil ; after it has stood a minute or 
two, to kt it soak through, rub off the superfluous 
oil with a piece of paper, and let it hang in the air 
to dry ; after the oil is pretty well dried in, take a 
lighted candle or lamp, and move the paper slowly 
over it, in an horizontal direction, so as to touch 
the fiame, till it is perfectly black. When you wish 
to take offimpressions of plants, lay your plant care- 
fully on the oiled paper, and lay a piece of clean 
paper over it, and rub it with your finger, equally 
m all parts, for about half a minute ; then take up 
yoiar plant, and be careful not to disturb the order 
of the leaves, and place it on the book or paper, on 
which you wisli t-o heive the impression ; then cover 
it with a piece of blotting-paper, and rubit with your 
finger for a short time, and you will have an impres- 
sion superior to the finest engraving. The same 
piece of black paper will serve to take offa great 
jiumbei- of impressions ; so that when you have once 
gone through the process of blacking it, you may 
make an impression in a very short time. 

The principal excellence of this method is, that 
the paper receives the impression of the most mi- 
»utc veins and hairs 5 so that you may take the ge- 



USEFUL ARTS, 7^ 

fteral character of most flowers, much superior to 
any engraving. The impressions may afterwards 
be coloured according to nature. 

90. To obtain the true Shape and Fibres of a Leaf, 

Rub the back of it gently with any hard sub- 
stance, so as to bruise the fibres ; then apply a 
small quantity of linseed oil to their edges ; after 
which, press the leaf on white paper, and, upon re- 
moving it, a perfectly correct representation of eve- 
ry ramilkation will appear, and the whole may be- 
coloured from the oriirinal. 

o 

9 1 . Another tuai/. 

This may be called printing of a leaf, and is ef- 
fected by carefully touching the fibres with one of 
those balls, lightly covered with printer's ink, and 
impressing it on wet paper. This is done to most 
advantage by a round stirk, covered with woollen 
cloths, rolled backwards and forwards over tlie pa- 
per and leaf. 

92. To rchiten Linseed Oil, 

Take any quantity of linseed oil, and to every 
gallon add two ounces of litharge ; shake it up eve- 
ry day for fourteen days, then lei il settle a day or 
two ; pour off the clear into shallow pans, the same 
as dripping pans, first putting half a pint of spirits 
©f turpentine to each gallon. Place it in the sun, 
and in three days it will, be white as nut oil. This 
oil, before it is bleached, and without the turpen- 
tine, is far superior to the best boiled oil, there be- 
ing no waste or ulfensive smell. 

93. Sophistication of Oil of Lavender and all Essen- 

tial Oils, 

These valuable oils are frequently adulterated by 
a mixture of oil of turpentine, which may be known 
by dipping a litde paper, or rag, in the oil to be 



80 USEFUL ARTS. 

tried, and holding it to the fire, the fine scented oil 
will fast evaporate, and leave the smell of the tur- 
pentine distinguishable, if any has been mixed 
therewith. 

94. Simple Way of determining the exact Time of 
J^oon, and to obtain a Meridian Line, on a small. 
Scale, 

Near the top of a roorgi, facing the south, fix a. 
plate of metal, with a circular hole in it, for the sun , 
to shine through, from eight or nine o'clock in the 
morning until three or four in the afternoon ; then,^ 
by means of a line and a plummet, determine the 
point upon the floor^ which is directly under the- 
centre of the hole, and from that paint, as a cen- 
tre, draw several concentric circles. Having made 
choice of some clear day near the summer solstice, 
make the room nearly dark, and about three or four 
hours before, and after noon, mark the points where 
the northern, as also the southern limb of the sun's- 
image cross those .semicircles,, and there will be 
several curves included between these points, 
through the middle of which a right line being drawrv 
from the centre of the semicircles, is a meridian line. 
After the line has been drawn in this manner, it. 
must be examined by succeeding observations, and 
corrected, if necessary, by which means a line may;, 
be drawn exceedingly near the true meridian. 

Practical Observations on. the above^ .. 

1. The metal plate, which may be about one- 
fifth of an inch thick, must.be placed parallel to the., 
axis of the world, that the sun's ray$ may pass per- 
pendicularly through it when he is in the equator. 

2. The aperture need not be more than one^fifth; 
of an inch in diameter, if it be countersunk on both 
sides, to admit the sun's ray- to flow through it at: 
the distance of three or four hours bcforcj and after- 

BOOH' 



USEFUL ARTiJ. 8.1- 

oa If the surface of the floor, oa which the obser- 
vations are to be taken for flading t!ie meridian, be 
not sufficiently even, the floor may be covered with- 
navv boards, taking the greatest care that they are 
laid down perfectly horizontal from east to -est. 
After the line has been correctly drawn, and the 
north and south ends of it marked upon the walls of 
the room, the boards may be taken away, and oth- 
ers laid down to draw the lines upon. 

A meridian line, upon a small scale, but sufti- 
cicntly correct for regulating clocks and watches, 
may be had by the following method : 

Let a stone, with an even surface,, about three 
feet long and two broad, be fixed horizontally upon 
a brick or stone pillar, at a convenient height for 
observation, with one of its ends facing the south* 
Near the middle of this end of the stone fix a £:no- 
mon in a direction perpendicular to the horizon.. 
This gnomon, which should be made of a strong 
bar of metal, must have a small aperture through it, 
for the sun's rays to flow through early in the morn- 
ijig and late in the evening. From that point, as a 
centre, which is directly under this aperture, draw 
several concentric semicircles, and lix the meridian 
line according to the preceding directions. The 
gnomon should have several other holes made 
through it in a line perpendicular to the horizon, that 
the sun's rays at noon, flowing through some of 
them, may fall near the north end of the stone at all 
seasons of the year; for, if only one hole be used, 
the sun's image will fall near the centre of the gno- 
mon in the summer, and in the winter it will be 
thrown far beyond the north end of the stone. 

95. German Method of makh^g Elm and Mapl» 
Wood resemble Maliogany, 

Having very smoothly planed whatever boards 
of the elm or maple tree are intended to be used for 
the purpose of appearing like m.ahogany^wash them 



{>2^ UTSEFDL ARTS. 

well with a little aquafortis diluted in comi 
ter. Then take a few drams of dragon's blood, ac-- 
cording to the quantity which maybe wanted in the 
whole, with half as much .alkanet root, and a quar- 
ter of asniuch aloes, and digest these ingredients 
in four ounces of proof spirit to every dram of the 
dragon's blood. As soon as the boards are dry,. 
varnish them over with this tincture, by means of a 
sponge or soft painter's brush ; and they will, it is 
said, ever after so wear the appearanee of mahoga- 
ny as to deceive the eye of any indifferent observer.- 

96. Buhstitute for Mahogany, 

The difficulty of procuring mahogany and other 
precious woods, and the consequent exorbitant 
prices demanded for the ordinary articles of family 
convenience, has occasioned the art of the chemist 
to be applied to a subject peculiarly calculated to 
promote domestic embellishment at a trifling ex- 
pense. It has been contrived to render any spe- 
cies of wood of a close grain, so nearly to resemble 
mahogany in the texture, density, and polish, that 
the most accurate judges are incapable of distin- 
guishing between this happy imitation, and the na- 
tive produce. The first operation, as now practis- 
ed in France, is ta plane the surface, so as to render 
it perfecdy smooth ; the wood is then to be rubbed 
with diluted nitrous acid, which prepares it for the 
materials subsequently to be applied. Afterwards,, 
one ounce and a half of dragon's blood, dissolved 
in a pint of spirits of v/ine, and one third of that 
quantity of carbonate of soda, are to be mixed to- 
gether, and filtered'5 and the liquid, in this thin 
state, is to be rubbedj^or rather laid, upon the wood, 
with a soft brush. This process is repeated with- 
very little alteration, and in a short interval after- 
wards,, tiie wood possesses the external appearance 
of mahogany. When this application has been, 
properly made^ the surface will resemble an artifi- 



fe'S&FUL ARTS. 8S 

"cial mirror ; but if the polish become less brilliant, 
by rubbing it with a little cold drawn linseed oil, the 
wood will be restored to its former brilliancy. 

S7. To clarify Quills, 

Scrape off the outer film, and cut the ends off ; 
then put the barrels into boiling water, wherein is 
a small quantity of alum and salt; let them remain 
a quarter of an hour, and then dry them in a hot 
pan of sand or an oven. 

98. To harden Quills, 

In order to harden a quill that is soft, thrust the 
barrel into hot ashes, stirring it till it is soft ; and 
then taking it out, press it almost flat upon your 
knee with the back of a pen-knife, and afterwards 
reduce it to a roundness with your fingers. Another 
method to harden quills is by setting water and alum 
over the fire, and while it is boiling, put in a hand- 
ful of quills, the barrels only, (or a minute, and then 
lay them by. 

99. Dutch Method of preparing Goose Quills for 

Writ in cr. 

The process consists in immersing the quill, when 
plucked from the wing of the bird, into water al- 
most boiling ; to leave it there till it becomes suffi- 
ciently soft to compress it, turning it on its axis with 
;tlie back of the blade of the knife. This kind of 
friction, as well as the immersions in water, being 
continued till the barrel of the quill be transparent, 
and the membrane, as well as the greasy kind of 
covering, be entirely removed, it is immersed a last 
time to render it perfectly cylindrical, which is per- 
formed with the index finger and the thumb; it is 
then dried in a gentle temperature. 

100. Substitute for Currier^ s Oil, 

A cheap substitute for the oil used by curriers ifl 



84 tSEl'UL ART^. 

the preparation of leather, is made by boiling whijilc^ 
oil for a few minutes, at a temperature of twenly- 
iive degrees Reaumer, with nitric acid, in the pro- 
portion of half an ounce bf*thi2 acid to a pound of 
oil, 

3 01. To repair Roads near to Coal Mines, 

The roads to and from coal mines are usually in 
bad condition from the heavy loads passing in carts 
over them. The late Duke of Bridgowater, to re- 
pair them, adopted, with great success, the follow*- 
ing plan, at Worsley, in Lancashire. The stones, 
clay, and rubbish, first raised from the shaft, were 
laid in a large heap above ground ; then, such in- 
ferior coal, pyrites, or shale, as was unfit for sale, 
and usually thrown away, was laid in another near 
it ; a third heap was raised from a mixture made by 
laying repeated layers from the above two heaps, 
stratum super stratum, and this heap, set on fire in 
such a direction that the wind would assist tiie fire 
to penetrate it throughout. The mass, when burnt, 
formed a compound of half vitrified substances, and 
abundantly supplied good materials for his drag- 
paths along the canal, and enabled him to sell the 
surplus advantageously for the repair of the turnpike 
roads in that neighbourhood. 

102. Kasy .Method of making a saponaceous Liquid, 
ichich may be used instead of Solutions of Soap for 
Washing, 

Take the ashes produced from the combustion of 
wood which has not been floated, and make a ley of 
them, according to the usual manner, mixing with 
the ashes a handful or two of quick lime, well pound- 
ed or recently slacked. Let the ley stand till it is 
grown clear by the settling or swimming of the for- 
eign substances, contained therein ; then pour it into 
another vessel, and keep it for use. When it is 
proposed to make use of this ley, take any quantity 



USEFUL ARTS* t^ 

of oil, and pour upon it thirty or forty times as much 
as of the ley. Immediately a liquor, white as milk, 
will be formed, which, by being well shaken, or 
stirred, lathers and froths like a good solution of 
soap. This liquor is to be poured into a washing 
tub, or other vessel, and to be diluted with a great- 
er or less quantity of water ; after which, the linen, 
meant to be washed, is to be steeped therein, to be 
rubbed and wrung in the usual w^ay. 

Observations on the foregoing Receipt* 

1. It is better that the ley should not be made 
until the time when it is to be used ; if it is left to 
stand in open vessels, its power is weakened, and its 
nature changed. 

2. Fresh wood-ashes are preferable to old ones, 
particularly if the latter have been exposed to the 
air; in that case they have no longer their usual 
power; and in order to make tliem serve the pur- 
pose, mix with them a greater proportion of quick 
lime. 

3. Those ashes are preferable which are pro- 
duced from hard wood : those which are left after 
the burning of floated wood, cannot be made use of 
with equal success. 

4. Fat oils, of a thick consistence, are most pro- 
per for the purpose here spoken of; fine thin oils 
are by no means fit for it. 

If stinking oil be made use of it is apt to give a 
bad smell to the linen : this may be removed by 
passing the linen carefully through a strong pure 
ley ; but, in general, this smell goes off as the linen 
])ecomes dry. 

6. When tlie mixture of the oil with ibe ley is of 
a yellow colour, it must be diluted with water. 

7. When the oil rises in the ley, and swims upon 
the surface of it, in the form of small drops, itshcvys 
that the oil is not fit for the purpose, not being thick 
enough ; or else, that the. ley is too weak, or not 
sufficicnily caustic. 



86 USEFUL ARTS. 

8. To prevent the quick lime from losing its 
power, and to have always some in use when want- 
ed, it may be broken into small pieces, and kept 
in -bottles well dried and well corked, pr in bar- 
rels. 

103, Method of extracting Sturchfrom Horse Ches- 

nuts. 

First take off the outward green prickly husks, 
and then, either by hand, with a knife, or oth^rtool, 
or else with a mill adapted for that purpose, very 
carefully pare off the brown rind, being particular 
not to leave the smallest speck, and to entirely era- 
dicate the sprout or growth. Next take the nuts, 
and rasp, grate, or grind them fine into water, ei- 
ther by hand, or by a mill adapted for that purpose. 
The pulp, which is thereby formed in this water, 
must be washed as clean as possible through a 
coarse horse-hair sieve, then again through a finer 
sieve, and again through a still finer, constantly ad- 
ding clean water to prevent any starch, adhering to 
the pulp. The last process is to put it with a large 
quantity of water (about four gallons to a pound of 
starch) through a fine gauze, muslin, or lawn, so as 
entirely to clear it of all bran or other impurities : 
as soon as it settles, pour off the water ; then mix it 
up with clean water, repeating this operation till it 
i\.o longer imparts any green, yellow, or other colour 
to the water; then drain it off till nearly dry, and set 
it to bake, either in the usual mode of baking starch, 
or else spread out before a brisk fire, being very at- 
tentive to stir it frequently to prevent its horning, 
that is to say, turning to a paste or jelly, which, on 
being dried, turns hard like horn. The whole pro- 
cess should be conducted as quickly as possible. 

104. To dissolve Wax in Water, 

To every pound of white wax take twenty-four 
ounces of pot-ash dissolved in a gallon of warm wa- 
ter; that, is caustic ley of pot-ash, made with quick 



USEFUL ARTS. 8T 

?inle. In this boil the wax, cut in small pieces, for 
half an hour ; at the end of this time take it from 
the fire, and suffer it to cool. The wax floats on 
the surface in the form of white soap ; triturated 
with water it yields what is commonly called milk 
ofzcax, and may be applied to furniture, pictures, 
&.C, An hour aft(?P the application, the coated parts 
are to .be rubbed with a piece of woollen cloth, 
which will give a great brilliancy to paintings, and 
a fine polish to furniture. 

105. To make Wafers, 

Tatve very fine flour, mix it with the glair, (or 
whites) of eggs, isinglass, and a little yeast ; mingle 
the materials, beat them well together, spread the 
batter, being made thin with gum water, on even 
tin plates, and dry them in a stove ; then cut them 
for use. You may make them of what colour you 
please, by tinging the paste with Brazil or Vermil- 
lion for red; indigo or verditer, &c. for blue j sal- 
fron, turmeric, or gamboge, &;c. for yellow. 



CHAPTER IV. 
BIRD-CATCHING. 



lOG. Method of making the best sort of Bird Lime, 
and manner of using it. 
Take, at midsumer, the bark of holly, and peel 
from the tree so much of it as will fill a moderately 
large vessel ; then put to it running water, and set 
k over the fire, and boil it till the gray and white 
bark rise from the green, which will take up sixteen 
hours 5 then separate the barks after the water is 
well drained away : then take ^11 the green bark, 



88 BIRD-CATCHIXG. 

and lay it on the ground in a close place and^ramsi 
floor, and cover it over with green weeds, as hem- 
locks, docks, thistles, and the like ; thus let it lay-| 
ten or twelve days, in which time it will rot, and 
turn to a filthy, slimy matter ; then put it into a mor- 
tar, and beat it till it becomes universally thick and 
lough, without the discerning of any part of the bark; 
-or substance ; then take it out of the mortar and car-^ 
Ty it to a running stream, and there wash it well, 
.iiot leaving any foulness about it ; then put it up in 
-a close earthen pot, and let it stand and purge for 
divers days together, scumming it as often as any 
/oulness arises for four or five days ; when you per- 
-ceivc no more scum, then take it out of that pot and 
put it into another cleaii earthen vessel, cover it 
close, and keep it for use. 

When you want to use your lime, take what 
quantity you think fit, and put it into a pipkin, ad- 
ding a third part of goose or capon's grease, finely 
clarified, and set them over a gentle fire ; let them 
melt together, and stir them continually, till they 
are well incorporated ; then take it from the fire, 
and stir it till it be cold. 

When your lime is cold, take your rods and warm 
them a little over the fire ; tiien take your lime and 
wind it about the tops of your rods, then draw your 
lods asunder one from the other, and close them 
again, continually plying and working them togeth- 
er, till, by smearing one upon another you have 
equally bestowed upon each rod a sutficient pro- 
portion of the lime. 

If you lime any strings, do it when the lime is 
very hot, and at the thinnest, besmearing the strings 
on all sides, by folding them together and unfolding 
them again. 

If you lime straws, it must be done likewise when 
the lime is very hot, doing a great quantity togeth- 
er, as many as you can well grasp in your hand, 
tossing them and working; them before the fire till 



BIRD-CATCHIXG. 89 

tliey are all besmeared, every straw having its due 
proportion of lime. Having so done, put them in 
cases of leather till you have occasion to use 
them. 

To prevent the freezing of your lime, either on 
twigs, bushes, or straws, you must add a quarter as 
much of the oil of petroleum as of capon's grease, 
mixing them well together, and then work it on your 
rods, «Src. ; and so it will ever keep supple, tough, 
and gentle, and will not be prejudiced should the 
weather freeze ever so hard. 

107. Experienced method of catching Larks, 

The common way of taking larks, of which so 
many are used at our tables, is in the night, with 
those nets which are called trammels. These are 
usually made of thirty-six 3'ards in length, and about 
six yards over, with six ribs of packthread, which, 
at the ends are put upon two poles of about sixteen 
feet long, and made lesser at each end. These are 
to be drawn over the grotmd by tv/o men, and every 
five or six steps the net is made to touch the ground, 
otherwise it will pass over the birds without touch- 
ing them, and they will escape. When they are 
felt to fly up against the net, it is clapped down, 
and they are all safe that are under it. The dark*- 
est nights are propcrest for this sport ; and die net 
will not only take larks, but all other birds that 
I'jost on the ground, among which arc woodcocks, 
snipes, partridges, quails, fieldfares, and several 
others. 

108. Another Method. . 

In the depth of winter, people sometimes take 
great numbers of larks by nooses of horse-hair. — 
The method is this : take 100 or 200 yards of 
packthread ; fasten, at every six inches, a noose 
made of double horse-hair; at every twenty yards . 
"ihe line is to be pegged down to the ground,, and sa 

H 2 



90 BLEACHING. 

left ready to take them. The time to use this is 
when the ground is covered with snow, and the 
larks are to be allured to it by some white oats 
scattered all the way among the nooses. They 
must be taken away as soon as three or four are 
hung, otherwise the rest will be frighted ; but tho' 
the others are scared where the sportsman comes, 
they will be feeding at the other end of the line, 
and the sport may be thus continued for a long 
time. 



J ' 



CHAPTER V. 
BLEACHING. 



109. Method of bleaching Strazo, 

Dip the straw in a solution of oxygenated muri- 
atic acid, saturated with potash. (Oxygenated mu- 
yiate of lime is much cheaper.) The straw is thus 
rendered very white, and its flexibility is increased. 

310. Effxacy of Horse Chesnuts in bleaching Linen 
and clearing Woollen Stuffs^ and as a Ley for pre- 
paring He^np, 

The manner of making this ley is to peel the 
ehesnuts, and rasp them as fine as possible into soft 
water. This is done ten or twelve hours before the 
mixture is to be used ; and, in the mean while, it is 
stirred from time to time, the better to dissolve 
these raspings and impregnate the water. The last 
stirring is given about a quarter of an hour before 
the water is drawn off from the thickest part of the 
raspings which subside ; and this is done either by 
inclining the vessel and pouring off the ley gently, 
or by ladling it out by hand, while the water is yet 



BLEACHING. 



wliiie, and froths like soap-suds. In order to use 
ibis ley, it is made rather hotter than the hand can 
well bear, and the hemp is theii steeped and wash- 
ed in it as in soap-suds. Linen, may also be washed 
in this ley, and even when very dirty much less 
soap will be required than is commonly used, itbe- 
ing sufficient to rub the dirtiest parts only with soap. 
The raspings of the chesnuts, which sink to the 
bottom of th.e ley, are good for fowls and pigs. — 
Hemp, as above prepared, may be dyed like silk, 
wool, or cotton, and may be made into stuiF and 
garments of all kinds ; a great advantage attending 
the use of this material is, that it will not be de- 
stroyed by those insects which devour woollen 
cloth. 

m. To bleach Bees-lVaco, 

Melt your wax, and while hot throw it into cold 
water to reduce it into little bits, or spread it out in- 
to very thin leaves, and lay it out to the air, night 
and day, on linen cloths, then uielt it over again, 
and expose it as before : repeat this till the sun and 
dew have bleached it; then, for the last time, melt 
it in a kettle, and cast it with a ladle on a table cov- 
ered over with little round hollows, in the form of 
the cakes sold by the apothecaries ; but first wet 
your moulds with cold water, that the wax be the 
easier got out; lastly, lay them out in the air for 
two days and two nights, to make it more transpa- 
rent and dricFo 



92 - BOOKS, 

GHAP. VL 
YOGA'S. 



"'^9 



il 

1 1 2* For taking grease out of the leaves of Books ^ , 

Fold up in two small bags, made of fine open 
muslin, some ashes of burnt bones, finely powdered, 
or of calcined hartshorn, which is always ready 
prepared at the shops of the druggists ; lay the bags 
of muslin, containing the powder, one on each side 
of the greasy leaf; and having heated a pair of fire 
tongs, or hair-dresser's pinching tongs, of a mode- 
rate warmth, press with them the two bags against 
the greasy spot, and hold them some time in that 
situation. Repeat the process, if necessary. 

When the irons cannot be conveniendy used, the 
powder may be heated over the fire, in a clean ear- 
then vessel; and, whilst hot, applied, without any 
muslins, on each side of the grease spot, and a 
weight laid on it to assist its effect. 

113. Method of cleaning dirty Prints or Books, 

If the print should be pasted upon canvas, put it 
into a copper or kettle of water just boiling ; and in 
three cr four minutes it will easily separate from the 
canvas ; next expose it ta the sun, by placing it on 
a grass plat, and, to prevent the wind from having 
any eiiect upon it, so as to tear it, or blow, it away, 
fix four skewers into the ground near the corners, 
and tie a string to each of the skewers, crossed from 
corner to corner, so as to confine it completely ^ 
"when it becomes dry, wet it again thoroughly ; and 
so on for several days, if necessary, in the same 
manner as you bleach linen ; in which operation, 
as well as in bleaching jon'n/^, a hot sun is best. If 
ibe. foulness of thejorm( should settle in spots, soak - 



BOOKS. 93" 

fhose spots well by putting wet linen rags doubled 
upon them for a considerable time. If soaking in 
this manner does not get the spots out, puithe print 
into hot water, gently boiling, or very near it, and 
let it continue for twenty-four hours ; but if the pa- 
per be spongy, or very thin, it will not bear soaking 
so long. Soaking in this manner is seldom neces- 
sary. The foulness from flies may be gently brush- 
ed off with a wet sponge, when the print is thorough- 
ly soaked. Spirit of sea salt, much diluted, will 
get white-wash off j»rm/5 : take care not to hold 
your nose over the vapor of the spirit. Do not 
leave your prints on the grass-plat at night, for fear 
of the worms. 

114. To make strong, or Book-Binder^ s Paste* 

Mix wheaten flour, first in cold water, then boil 
it till it be of a glutinous consistence ; this method 
makes common paste. When you wish it to be of 
a sti'onger nature, mix a fourth, ffi^h or f^ixth of the 
weight of the flour of powdered alum ; and where it 
is wanted of a still more tenacious quality, add a 
little powdered rosin. 

1 1 5. To marble Books or Paper.. 

Marbling of books or paper is performed thus : 
Dissolve four ounces of gum arabic in two quarts of 
fair water j then provide several colours mixed with 
water in pots or shells, and with pencils peculiar to 
each colour; sprinkle ihem by way of intermixture 
upon the gum water, which must be put into a 
U'ough, or some broad vessel ; then, with a stick, 
curl them, or draw them out in streaks to as much 
variety as may be done. Having done this, hold 
your book, or books, close together, and only dip 
the edges in, on the top of the water and colours, ve- 
ry lightly ; which done, take them off, and the plain 
impression of the colours in mixture will be upon 
the leaves ; doing as well the ends as the front of 



BREWINGT'. 



the book in the like manner, and afterwards g-Ia^: 



ing the colours. 



CHAPTER VII. 

BREPVmG, 
AND MANAGExMENT OF MALT LIQUORS. 



116. J^iceties in Malting, the Observance of tvhich 
zoill increase the profits of the Maltster near Ten' 
per Cent, 

In malting barley-, the water should be changed 
oftenest in spring and autumn, when the weather is' 
wann : if barley is left to steep too long at these 
seasons in the same water, the water will grow 
slimy, and sometimes sour: the maltster should 
therefore watch the change of the water, and when 
he finds it smooth or oily to the touch, or inclining 
to smell or taste sour, it must be changed immedi- 
ately. 

The common method of changng it, is first to 
draw off that in which the barley was steeping, and^ 
then by pumping or pails full, fill the cistern again: 
but this is a bad way, for when the water is drawn 
oft* the bark')' lies closer, and is apt to heat, which 
causes great damage. It is therefore recommended 
to get a hogshead of water in readiness near the 
cistern, whi^h should be thrown on the barley the 
instant the first water is drawn off; and as a hogs- 
head of water is sufficient to wet eight bushels of 
barley, as many hogsheads, save one, should be af- 
terwards added, as the cistern will wet. 

River water is the best, and hard spring water is 
the worst : in general the water that soonest lathers 
should be preferred. 



.BREWING. -9w 

•A thin-skinned fine-coated barley is the best for 
. making malt ; it need not be very full-bodied, but 
should be quite ripe. 

Barley that has grown on land highly manured is 
not so good as that produced on a land moderately 
rich without manure ; and if the soil is very luxuri- 
ant, either \hy nature or art, the barley will not be 
fit for the maltster. 

It is a good practice to give malt as much drying 
as possible on the floor; it does not shrink so much 
as on the kiln, and acquires no foreign taste ; when 
it comes to the kiln, the fire ia the furnace should 
be moderate, but equal. 

Brown malt, used in the same proportion as pale, 
? will not make the strongest beer; but the pale malts 
that are slack dried, make a raw unwholesome li- 
quor that will not keep. 

Maltsters should never buy barley groivn on va- 
rious soils, or even different fields, because the 
kerns will spire at different timoB ; they should 
therefore never buy tythe barley. A maltster hav- 
ing bought one hundred quarters of tythe barley, 
without knowing it, soon discovered it in the malt- 
ing, and sold it to a hog-feeder for eight-pence a 
quarter less than he gave, as the least loss he should 
incur by his bargain. 

To discover whether malt has been made of mix- 
,^d or unripe barley, throw a couple of handfuls of 
it into a bowl of water ; stir it gently, and the grains 
that have not been malted will sink, the half-malted 
grains will have one end sunk, and so swim in a 
perpendicular position, and those that are perfectly 
malted will swim. The best barley will not malt 
equally well at all times. As soon as housed, be- 
fore it is in sweat, and after the sweating is over, it 
will malt well, but not while it is in sweat. 

Barley that has been got in early in a very dry 

. season malts but indifferently ; but if the sam^'bar- 

ley is left abroad till rain falls on it to locson the 



SB 06REWING, 

husks from the kernel, it will malt well, and yield a 
large increase. 

117. Method of extracting the virtue of Hops in 

JBreioing, 

The usual methoe is to put in hops without any 
preparation into the strong beer or ale wort ; the 
consequence is, the richer and better the wort is, 
the less it will partake of the essence of the hops. 
The rich fat wort sheathes up the pores of the hop, 
and, as it were, embalms the leaves, so that the 
beer or ale wort can extract scarcely any part of the 
necessary quality of the hop ; but when it is put in- 
to the small beer wof t, a fluid of a more thin na- 
ture, there the pores are unsheathed, and the small 
beer is rendered too bitter ; therefore the hops, be- 
fore they are put into the strong drink, should be 
previously soaked in a pail of hot water. 

To confirm the truth of this observation, take a 
quarter of an Qiince of the be&t green tea, and in- 
stead of pouring on it simple boiling water, let the 
water have the same quantity of sugar boiled in it 
that would be necessary to sweeten so much tea 
w^hen made, and you, will find that the sweetness of 
the water v/ill prevent its extracting the grateful 
bitter of the tea, 

J 18. Cheap and easy Methvd of Brewing, 

One bushel of malt, and three quarters of a pound 
of hops will, on an average, brew twenty, gallons 
of good beer. . 

For this quantity of malt, boil twenty-four ga^ 
ions of water; and having dashed it in the copper 
with cold water to stop the boiling, steep the malt 
(properly covered up) for three hours ; then tie up 
the hops in a hair cloth, and boil malt, hops, and 
wort, all together, for three quarters of an hour, 
wlv h vvill reduce it to about twenty galls. Strain 
it off, and set it to work when lukewarm. 



BREWING. 97 

in large brewings this process pcrHPaps would not 
answer, bsjt in small ones, where the waste is not so 
great, and where the malt can be boiled, the essence 
is sure to be ejitracted. 

119. To make excellent and zoholesome Table Beer, 

To eight quarts of boiling water put a pound of 
treacle, a quarter of an ounce of ginger, and two 
bay leaves ; let this boil for a quarter of an hour, 
then cool, and work it with yeast, the same as other 
beer. 

1 20. Uses of Ground hy in Ale^ 6/c, 

The leaves thrown into the vat with ale clarify 
it, and give it an antiscorbutic quality. The expres- 
sed juice mixed with a little wine, and applied 
morning and evening, destroys the white specks on 
horses' eyes. 

121. To make Ginger Beer, 

To every gallon of spring water add one ounce of 
sliced white ginger, one pound of common loaf su- 
gar, and two ounces of lemon juice, or three large 
tablespoonfuls ; boil it near an hour, and take olF 
the scum; then run it through a hair sieve into a 
tub, and when cool (viz. 70 degrees) add yeast iii 
proportion of half a pint to nine gallons ; keep it 
in a temperate situation two days, during which it 
may be stirred six or eight times ; then put it into a 
cask, which must be kept full, and the yeast taken 
offat the bung-hole with a spoon. In a fortnight add 
half a pint of fining (isinglass picked and steeped i,a 
beer) to nine gallons, which will, if it has been pro- 
perly fermented, clear it by ascent. The cask must 
be kept full, and the rising particles taken offat the 
bung-hole. When fine (which may be expected in 
twenty-four hours) bottle it, cork it well, and hi 
summer it will be ripe and fit to drink in a fortrtight. 



98 BREWING. 

122. To make Yeast or Barm. 

Mix two quarts of soft water with wheat fiour, lo 
the consistence of thick gruel, or soft hasty pudding ; 
boil it gently for half an hour, and when almost 
cold, stir into it half a pound of sugar, and four 
spoonfuls of good yeast. Put it into a large jug, or 
earthen vessel, with a narrow top, and place it be- 
fore the fire, so that it may, by a moderate heat, fer- 
ment. The fermentation will throw up a thin li- 
quor, which pour oft' and throw away ; the remain- 
der keep for use in a cool place in a bottle, or jug 
tied over. The same quantity of common yeast will 
suffice to bake or brew with. Four spoonfuls ,of 
this will make a fresh quantity as before. 

123. Substiiute for Barm or Yeast. 

[This receipt was presented to the October Meet- 
ing of the Manchester Agricultural Society, held 
at Altringham, 1809, by Charles Lownds, Esq. 
when it was ordered that a copy should be print- 
ed for each member.] 

Boil two ounces of hops in four quarts of water 
twenty minutes ; strain it, and whilst hot stir in half 
a pound of flour; when milk-warm, mix half a pint 
of good ale yeast, or a pint of this mixture, which 
you should always reserve to keep a supply. When 
nearly cold, bottle and cork it well, and keep it for 
use in a cool place ; if too warm it would be apt to 
lly ; you will judge of this by the season of the 
year: observe to fill the bottles onlv two thirds 
full. 

When used, put of it into the flour you intend for 
bread, in the proportion of a pint to twenty-four 
pounds, with water to make it of a proper warmth, 
mix a little of the flour w^ith it in the middle of the 
mug, or kneading vessel ; it must be covered close, 
and set in a tolerable warm place all night. Knead 
it well in the morning, and let it stand some hours 
longer to rise. It should be eighteen or twenty hours 



BREWING. 99 

J mm the first putting together, before your bread is 
set into the oven. 

1 24. To make Yeast in the Turkish Manner, 

Take a small teacup-full of split or bruised peas, 
and pour on it a pint of boiling water, and set it in 
\\ vessel all night on the hearth, or any warm place. 
The next morning the v/ater will have a froth on it, 
and be good yeast, and will make as much bread as 
two quartern loaves. 

125. Easy Method of preserving Yeast, 

Yeast may be preserved for a considerable time, 
"by coating a board with a whiting-brush, allowing 
the coat to dry; then putting on another, which is 
in like manner to dry ; and so a third, and any num- 
ber of successive coatings, which, when perfectly 
dry, will keep vigorous for a long time. Another 
method is to whisk the yeast until it becomes thin, 
and then to lay it upon a dry platter or dish, repeat- 
edly, with a soft brush as above-mentioned. The 
top is then to be turned downwards to keep out the 
dust, but not the air which is to dry it. By this me- 
thod it may be continued till it be two or three 
inches thick, when it may be preserved in dry tin 
canisters for a long time good. When used for bak- 
ing, a piece is to be cut off, and laid in warm water 
to diffuse or dissolve, when it will be fit for use. 

r2G. To make artificial Yeast, 

Boil potatoes of the mealy sort till they are tho- 
roughly soft; skin and wash them very smooth, and 
put as much hot water as will make the mash of the 
consistency of common beer yeast, and not thicker. 
Add to every pound of potatoes two ounces of 
coarse sugar or treacle, and v/hen just warm, stir in 
it for every pound of potatoes two spoonfuls of 
yeast; keep it warm till it has done fermenting, and 
in twenty-four hours it may be used. A pound of 
potatoes will Diake about a quart of yeast, and when 



100 BREWING, 

made will keep three months. Lay your bread eight 
iiours before you bake it. 

N. B. Instead of water and sugar in the above 
receipt, beer has been used, not bitter nor strofig, 
in the same proportion, and with equal if not better 
success. 

127. Usefulness of the common Hazel-nut in Brezv 

ing. 

In countries where yeast is scarce, it is a common 
practice to take the twigs of hazel, and twisting 
them together so as to be full of chinks, to steep 
them in the ale-yeast during its fermentation ; they 
are then hung up to dry, and at the next brewing 
they are put into the wort instead of yeast. In Italy 
tlic chips are frequendy put into turbid wine, for the 
purpose of clearing it, which is effected in twenty- 
'four hours. 

128. To extract the Essence of Malt for Brewing, 

After brewing, when the grains are done with, 
sstrew^ a small quantity of unslacked lime over the 
same, with two or thi-ee roots of horse-radish. This 
■will draw out all the remaining goodness from the 
Bialt, and make a less quantity go farther than is 
generally supposed. 

129. To prevent Bcsr from groiiymg fat. 

In a cask, containing eighteen gallons of beer, 
becoming vapid, put a pint of ground malt, suspend- 
ed in a bag, and close the bung perfectly; the beer 
will be improved during the whole time of drawing- 
it for use. 

130. To recover sour Beer, 

When beer is become sour, add thereto some 
oyster shells, calcined to whiteness, or, in place 
thereof, a little fine chalk or whiting. Any of these 
will correct the acidity, and make it brisk and 
sparkling ; but it should not be long kept after 
such additions, otherwise it will spoil. 



BUILDING. 101 

131. To restore pricked or stale Beer. 

To about a quart of stale beer, put half a tea- 
spoonful of salt of worm wodd ; this will restore the 
beer, and make it sparkle when poured into a glass, 
like bottled porter. 



CHAPTER VIII. 
BUILDING. 



132. Jlrtijicial Stone Floors and Coverings for 
Houses^ as made in some parts of Russia, 

The floors and coverings of houses, in some parts 
of South Russia, are made in the following man- 
ner : — For a floor, let the ground be made even, and 
some stones of any shape be put on, and, with a 
heavy, wooden rammer, force or beat the stones in- 
to the ground, continuing to beat the floor till it be- 
come quite even, and incapable of receiving any 
farther impression. Then run lime, immediately 
after it has been slacked, through a line sieve, as 
expeditiously as possible, because exposure to the 
air weakens the lime. Mix two parts of coarse 
sand, or washed gravel, for there must be no earth 
in it, with one part of lime powder, and wet them 
with bullock's blood ; so little moist, however, as 
merely to prevent the lime from blowing away in 
powder; in short, the less moist the better. Spread 
it on the floor, and, without a moment's loss of time, 
let several men be ready, with large beedes, to beat 
the mixture, which will become more and more 
moist by the excessive beating requisite. Then put 
on it some of the dry sand and lime mixed, and 
beat it till like a stone. If required to be very flne, 
take for the next layer finely sifted lime, with about 

!2. 



102 BUILDING. 

a tenth part of rye flour, and a little ox blood ; beat 
it till it becomes a very stifi' mortar, and then smooth 
it with a trowel. The next day again smooth it 
with a trowel ; and so continue to do, daily, till it 
be entirely dry. When it is quite dry and hard, rub 
it over with fresh ox blood, taking off all which it 
will not imbibe. No wet will penetrate this compo- 
sition, which, however, after some time, is often 
painted with oil colours. The whole floor appears 
as a single stone, and nothing v> ill affect it. The 
drier it is used, the better, provided that, with much 
beating, it becomes like a very stiff mortar, and evi- 
dently forms a compact body. On flat tops of 
houses, the beetle, or rammers' ends must be smal- 
ler, to prevent the rebounding of the boards and 
timber, which would crack the cement ; but, when 
the thickness of a foot is laid on, it will beat more 
firmly. A thin coating of ox blood, flour, and lime, 
being beat in large, strong, wooden troughs, or mor- 
tar, till it can be spread with a trowel, may be used 
without beating it again on the floor or house top; 
but it must be very stiff, and used most expeditious- 
ly. Even frost will not affect it. With this compo- 
sition, artificial stone may be made, rammed very 
hard into strong wooden frames of the required 
shape ; particularly to turn arches for buildings of 
rammed earth. It is well known that earth which is 
not too argillaceous, with only the moisture it has 
when fresh dug, on being rammed between frames 
of wood, till the rammer will no longer impress it, 
makes eternal walls ; but a mass as hard as stone 
maybe made with a little lime added to sand, horse 
dung, and ox blood. The more the lime is beaten, 
the moister it becomes ; and it must contain so 
much moisture as to become, by beating, a solid 
mass, adhering in all its parts, and not remain 
crumbling, that will properly set as mortar. If there 
be too little moisture at first, it will remain a pow- 
der 5 if there be too much; it will become a soft 



BUILDIIfG. 103 

mortar. Lime Is of no use, mixed with clay or ve- 
getable earths; which, if well beaten, are stronger 
without it. 

133. To cure damp V/alls, 

Boil two quarts of tar, with two ounces of kitchen- 
grease, for a quarter of an hour, in an iron pot. 
Add some of this tar to a mixture of slacked lime 
and powdered glass, which have passed through a 
flour sieve, and been completely dried over the fii'e 
in an iron pot, in the proportion of t\ro parts of 
lime and one of glass, till the mixture becomes ol 
the consistence of thin plaster. The cement must be 
used immediately after being mixed, and therefore 
it is proper not to mix more of it than will coat one 
square foot of wall, since it quickly becomes too 
hard for use ; and care must be taken to prevent 
any moisture from mixing with the cement. For a 
wall merely damp, a coating one-eighth of an inch 
thick is sufficient; but if the wall is wet, there must 
be a second coat. Plaster made of lime, hair, and 
plaster of Paris, may afterwards be laid on as a ce- 
ment. The cement above described will unite the 
parts of Portland stone or marble, so as to make 
them as durable as they were prior to the fracture. 

134. To increase the Durahiliiy of Tiles for cover- 

ing Buildings, 

The following composition has been found to be 
of extraordinary durability, as a glazing or varnish 
for tiles. No sort of weather, even for a consider- 
able length of time, has had any effect upon it. It 
prevents that absorption of water, by which com- 
mon tiles are rendered liable to crumble into dust, 
hinders the shivering of tiles, and gives to red. 
bricks a soft lustre, by which their appearance is 
much improved. 

Over a weak fire heat a bottle of linseed oil, with 
an- ounce of litharge and a small portion of minium; 



104 ^^^^^■^BUILDING. 

till such time as a feather, used in stirring it, shal 
be burnt to the degree of being easily rubbed to 
powder between the fingers. Then take off the var- 
nish, let it cool, clarify it from any impurities which 
may have fallen to the bottomland heat it again. 
Having, in the mean time, melted from three to four, 
ounces of pitch, mix this with the warm varnish. 
The specific gravity of the pitch hinders it from 
mingling thoroughly with the varnish, though it even 
remain so long, upon the fire as to be evaporated to- 
considerable thickness. It is not till the varnish be 
cooled, nearly to the consistency of common vSyrup, 
that this effect takes place in the requisite degree. 
If it be too thick, let hot varnish be added to bring 
it to the proper consistency ; if it be too thin, add 
melted pitch. Next, put in as much brick-dust as the 
mixture can receive, without being made too thick 
for convenient use. The finer the brick-dust, and 
the easier it is tabe moved with the point of a pen- 
cil, so much the fitter will it be to fill up the chinks- 
and unevenness of the bricks, and, as it were, to in- 
corporate itself with their substance. Prepare the 
brick-dust in the following manner: — Take a cer^ 
lain number of pieces of good brick, beat them in- 
to dust, and sift the dust in a hair sieve. Then, to 
improve its fineness, rub it on a stone with water, 
dry it, and mix it with the varnish in the necessary 
proportion. , If the brick-dust be naturally of too 
iark a colour, a portion of some that is brighter may, 
be added, to make the colour clear. 

It is to be laid on the tiles in the same manner in 
iR'hich oil colours in general are put upon the sub^ 
stances on which they are applied. The composi- 
tion must be heated from time to time when it is lo- 
;. he used. 



BClLDI.VGr. 105 

J 35. Economical Method of employing Tiles for the 
Roofs of Houses, 

A French architect (M. Castala) has invented a 
new method of employing tiles for the roofs of 
houses, so as to sav'e one half of the quantity usually 
employed for that purpose. The tiles are made of a 
square instead of an oblong form ; and the hook 
that fastens them, is at one of the angles, so that, 
when fastened to the laths, they hang down diago- 
nally, and every tile is covered one fifth part on two 
sides by the superior row. 

136. To improve Chimney Fire Places, and increase 
the Heat, by a proper Attention to the Setting of 
Stoves, Grates, ^c. 

The best materials for setting stoves or grifftes, 
are fire-stone and common bricks and mortar. Both 
materials are fortunately very cheap. When bricks 
are used, they should be covered with a thin coat- 
ing of plaster, which, when it is dry, should be white 
washed. The fire-stone should likewise be white 
washed when that is used ; and every part of the 
fire-place, which is not exposed to being soiled and 
made black by the smoke, should be kept as white 
and clear as possible. As white ve6.ects more heat, 
as well as more light, than any other colour, it ought 
always to be preferred for the inside of a chimney 
fire-place; ixnd black, which reflects neither light 
nor heat, should be most avoided. 

137. To cure Smokey Chimnies, 

Put on the top of the chimney a box, in each of 
whose, sides is a door hanging on hinges, and kept 
open by a thin iron rod running from one to the 
other, and fastened by a ring in each end to a staple. 
When there is no wind, these doors are at rest, and 
each forms an angle of 45 degrees, which is decreas- 
ed on the windward side in proportion to the force 
of the wind, and increased in the same ratio on the 



leeward side. Ifthe wind be very strong, the door* 
opposed to the wind becomes close, while the oppo- 
site one is opened as wide as it can be. — If the 
wind strikes the corner of the box it shuts two 
doors, and opens their opposites. This scheme has- 
been tried with success in a chimney which always 
iilled the room with smoke, but which, since adopt- 
ed, has never smoked the room at all. The expense 
is trifling, and the apparatus simple. 

138. A preparation to preserve JVood from catching- 
Jire, and to preserve it from Decay. 

A member of the Royal Academy at Stockholm, 
says, in the memoirs of that academy, "Having 
been within these few years to visit the alum mines 
of Loswer^, in the province of Calmar, I took no- 
tice of some attempts made to burn the old staves 
of tubs and pails that had been used for the alum 
works. For this purpose they were thrown into the 
furnace, but those pieces of wood which had beea 
penetrated by the* alum did not burn, though the^- 
remained for a long time in the fire, where they on- 
ly became red; however, at last they were consum- 
ed by the intenseness ofthe heat, but they yielded 
no flame." 

He concludes, from this experiment, that' wood or 
timber, for the purpose of building, may be secured 
against the actiCHi of fire, by letting it remain for 
some tin>e in \Vatery wherein vitriol, alum, or any 
other salt has been dissolved^ which contains no in- 
flammable parts. 

To this experiment it maybe added, that w^ood, 
which has been impregnated with water, wherein 
vitriol has been dissolved, is very fit for resisting 
putrefaction, especially if afterwrads it is brushed 
over with tar, or some kind of paint ; in order to 
this, the wood'must be rubbed with very warm vi- 
triol water, and afterwards left to dry, before it is 
painted or tarred. Wood prepared in this manner 



BuiLmxG. 107 

-will for a long time resist the injuries of the air, and 
be preserved in cellars and other low moist places. 
It is to be observed, that if a dissolution of vitriol is 
poured on such parts of timber where a sort of 
champignons are formed by moisture, and rubbed 
off, none will ever grow there again. 

By boiling, for some hours, the spokes of wheels 
in vitriol water, they are not subject to rottenness 
in the parts where they enter the stocks. After boil- 
ing them in this manner, they are dried as perfectly 
as possible, and then, in the accustomed way, paint- 
ed with oil colour. 

139. Cheap and excellent Composition Jor prescrvr, 
ing Weather Boardings Palings and all other 
Works liable to he injured by the Weather, 

Well burnt lime will soon become slacked by ex- 
posure in the open air, or even if confined in a situ- 
ation not remarkably dry, so as to crumble of itself 
into powder. This is called air-slacked lime, in con- 
tradistinction to that which is slacked in the usual 
way, by being mixed with water. For the purpose 
of making the present composition to preserve aU 
sorts of wood-work exposed to the vicissitudes of 
the weather, take three parts of this air-slacked 
lime, two of wood ashes, and one of fine sand ; pass 
them through a fine sieve, and add as much linseed 
oil to the composition as will bring it to a proper 
consistence for working with a painter's brush. As 
particular care must be taken to mix it perfectly, it 
should be ground on a stone slab with a proper 
mullcr, in the same manner as painters grind their 
white lead, 8zc, ; but where these conveniences are 
not at hand, the ingi-edients inay be mixed in a 
large pan, and well beat up with a wooden spatula. 
Two coats of this composition being necessary, the 
first may be rather thin ; but the second should be 
as thick as it can conveniently be worked. This 
most excellent composition for preserving wood. 



IG8 BUILDING* 

when exposed to the injuries of the Weather, is high- 
ly preferable to the customary method of laying on 
tar and ochre. 

140, To prevent the disagreeable Smell arising ^'om 

House Drains, 

As the diffusion of this noxious matter, within our 
dwellings, tends to produce disease and mortality, 
it cannot be too generally known that a cheap and 
simple apparatus has been contrived for carrying 
off the waste water, &;c. of sinks, and which at the 
same time prevents the possibility of any air ever 
returning back into the house from thence, or from 
any drain which may be connected with it. It is 
known by the name of a stink trap, and is made in 
brick by every bricklayer in London. 

141. Lnproved Ventilators for Rooms, 

Different methods are adopted for ventilating, or 
changing the air of rooms. — Thus, 

Mr. Tidd admitted fresh air into a room by tak- 
ing out the middle upper sash pane of glass, and fix- 
ing in its place a frame box with a round hole in its 
middle, about six or seven inches diameter, in which 
hole are fixed, behind each other, a set of sails, of 
very thin, broad copper plates, which spread over 
and cover the circular hole, so as to make the air, 
which enters the room, and turning round these sails, 
to spread round in thin sheets side way, and so not 
to incommode persons by blowing directly upon 
them, as it would do if it were not hindered by the 
sails. This well-known contrivance has generally 
been employed in public buildings, but is very dis- 
agreeable in good rooms ; instead of it, therefore, 
the late Mr. Whitehurst substituted another, which 
was, to ope|i a ismall square, or rectangular hole, in 
the party wall of the room, in the upper part, neal^ • 
the ceiling, at a corner or partdistant from the fire; 
before it he placed a thin piece of metal, or paste- 



BUILDING. 109 

board, &;c. attached to the wall in its lower part, 
just before the hole, but declining from it upwards, 
so as to give the air that enters by the hole, a direc- 
tion upwards against the ceiling, along which it 
sweeps, and disperses itself through the room, with- 
out blowing in a current against any person. This 
method is very useful to cure smoky chimnies, by 
thus admitting, conveniently, fresh air. A picture, 
placed before the hole, prevents the sight of il from 
disfiguring the room. 

142. To preserve Churches from Dilapidation.. 

The earth, next to the walls of a church, lying 
higher in any part than the floor of it, is not only 
very injurious to the walls, but to the wainscoat 
next to the same on the inside, by causing what is 
absurdly called the dry rot, and, where there is no 
wainscoat, producing a green moss. The water 
from the eaves, where there is no parapet, should 
be carried off by a spout, to extend much farther 
than the length of the wail, to prevent the wind 
from driving the w^et against it. Where there are 
parapets, it should be brought do^vn close to the 
wall, in leaden pipes, at t!ie foot of which should be 
a stone somewhat hollow, to prevent its penetrating, 
and to throw it off from the wail ; a pipe should be 
also continued from the roof of the steeple to that of 
the church. These matters attended to, will prove 
of great advantage to the sacred fabrics, and save 
much expense in the repairs. 

143. To make Red Coral Branches for embellish' 
ing Grottos, and the Method of buildijig a Grotto 
at a very little Expense. 

Dissolve clear rosin in a brass pan ; to one ounce 
thereof add two drachms of the finest vermillion ; 
and when you have stirred them well together, and 
have chose your twigs and branches, peeled and 
dried, take a pencil and paint these twigs all over, 

K 



110' caItary birds. 

whilst the composition is warm, and shape them io 
imitation of natural coral of black thorn ; when done, 
hold it over a gentle coal fire, turn the branches a- 
bout with your hand, and it will make it all over 
smooth and even, as if polished. In the same man- 
ner you may, with white lead, prepare white ; and 
with lamp black, black coral. 

A beautiful grotto may be built at a very little ex- 
pense with glass cinders, which may easily be had, 
pebbles or pieces of large flint, and embellish it 
with such counterfeit coral, amber, pieces of look- 
ing-glass, oyster, muscle, and snail shells, mos^, 
pieces of chalk, ore, &c. The cement to bind them 
together is as follows : take two parts of white ro- 
sin, melt k clear, add to it four parts of bees' wax ; 
when mixed together, add stone flower of the stone 
you design to cement two or three parts, or so much 
as will give. the cement the colour of the stone ; to 
this add one part of flower of sulphur ; first incor- 
porate all together over a gentle fire, and afterwards 
knead jt with your hands in "warm water, with this 
cement the stones, after they are well directed, and 
have been warmed before the fire, in order to re- 
ceive the cement the better. {See also Chap, L S^cto 
2. Farm Buildings.) 



CHAPTER IX. 
CANARY BIRDS. 



144. Breeding and Management of Canary Birds, 

Canary birds, that are kept tame, will breed three 
or four times in the year ; they usually begin in A- 
pril and breed in May and ^une, though sometimes 
in July and August. 



CANARY-BIRDS. til 

Towards ihe middle of March, bcgui to match 
your birds, putting one cock and one hen in a small 
cage ; and when they have been so long together, 
that they are perfectly reconciled and well pleased 
with each other, towards the end of March or the 
beginningof April, put them into the breeding cage 
for that use; iefit be full large, so that the birds 
may have the more room to fly and exercise them- 
selves ; let there be two boxes in the cage for the 
hen to build in, because she will sometimes hatch a 
second brood before the first are fit to fly, leaving 
the care of them to the cock to feed and bring them 
up, whilst she breeds in the other box; therefore if 
she has not a spare box to build in she will be apt 
to make her nest upon the birds, (as it sometimes 
happens) and smother them, or build so near that 
they will spoil one another. Whilst your birds are 
pairing, feed them with soft meat, egg, bread, mav/ 
seed, and a little scalded rape seed, hardly a third 
part of egg ; this last, and the bread, grated fine, 
and so mix it together. 

When^hey have young on^s, give the same soft 
victuals fresh every day, and let them have fresh 
greens likewise, such as cabbage-lettuce, now and 
then ; but give them more constantly chick-weed 
with se^.ds upon it: towards June, shepherd's 
purse ; in July and August, plantain ; and before 
they have young ones, give them groundsel, with 
seed upon it. 

I would recommend to such persons who breed 
only a few birds for their own diversion, to use very 
large cages, it being much the best way ; but those 
who intend to breed a number should prepare a 
room for that purpose. 

Let the situation of it be such that the birds may 
enjoy the benefit of the morning sun, which is both 
delightful and nourishing, and let wire, instead of 
glass, be at the windows, that they may have the 
advantage of the air, which will add to their health, 



i 12 CANARY BlRD^S* 

and make them thrive the better ; keep the floor of 
the room clean, sometimes sifting fine gravel or 
sand, and often removing the dung and the other 
foul stuff. You must take care to fix nest boxes and 
back cages in every convenient corner and place in 
the room, at least twice the number that you have 
of birds, that they may have the more variety to 
choose a lodging to their minds, for some love to 
build high, and some very low, some in a light 
place, and others will choose a dark place to build 
in. 

There ought to be two windows in the room, one 
at each end, and several perches, at proper distan- 
ces, for the birds to settle upon as they fly back- 
wards and forwards. 

You may likewise set a tree in some convenient 
part of the room; it will divert the birds, and some 
of them will like to build in it. You must observe, 
that their nest is secure from falling through, and if 
in danger, to tie the tree closer, to prevent it, and 
tiiey will hatch there as well as in any other place. 

Remember not to put too many birds together ; 
eight or ten pair are enough for a middling room. 
When your birds are first paired, as directed be- 
fore, turn them into the room, where they will live, 
as it were, a conjugal life; and notwithstanding 
there are several male and female birds in the same 
room, one cock and one hen, as they first couple to- 
gether, will keep constant to each other, and both 
concur and assist in sitting and feeding their young, 
for the cock bird takes his turn in building the nest, 
sitting upon the eggs, and feeding the young, as 
well as the hen. 

Of their nests, and how to order their young, — 
You must furnisli the birds with stuff for making 
their nests, sucl^as fine hay, wool, cotton, and hair; 
let these materials be thoroughly dry; then mix and 
tie them up together in a net, or some such thing, 
so. that ^le birds may easily pull it out as they want 



CANARY BIRDS. ' 113-^ 

it, and let it be hung in a proper place in the room 
for that purpose. 

They build a pretty nest, about which they will 
sometimes be so industrious, as to begin and finish 
it in one day, though they are generally two or 
three days making their nest : the hen commonly 
lays four or five eggs, and sits fourteen days. 

When the young arc hatched, leave them to the 
care of the old ones to nurse and bring up till they 
can fly, and feed themselves. The hen, as I said 
before, by reason of their rankness in being kept 
together^ and provided with all things necessary at 
hand, without any trouble in seeking their food, 
&c, will sometimes build and hatch again before 
the first can shift for themselves, the care of which 
she transfers to the cock-bird, who wifl feed and 
nurse them himself, supplying the part of both pa- 
rents, while she brings on and attends her new pro- 
geny : but it is not so with those birds that live at 
large in the fields; they observe their season for 
breeding, and after they have hatched, company 
with their brood till their young are grown up, and 
able to provide for themselves. 

When the young canary birds can feed them- 
selves, take them from the old ones, and cage them ; 
if they are flying about the room, to catch them bring 
a spare cage with some soft victuals in it, taking the 
other meat that is in the room away, and placing the 
cage there in its stead, with the door open, and a 
string fastened thereto, then stand at a distance, 
and the old ones will presently for the sake of the 
meat, intice the young ones into the cage ; then pull 
the string, and shut in as ma^iy as you. can,, and - 
catch them. . 

Let their meat be the yolk of an egg hard boiled, 
with as much of the best bread, and a little scalded 
rapeseed ; when it is boiled soft, bruise the seed fine, . 
and put a little maw seed amongst it, and mix it all 
together, and give them a sufficient quantity fresh 

V ^ 



114 CATTLE. 



every day; never let it be stale or sour; besides 
this, give them a little scalded rapeseed, and a little 
rape and canary by itself. You may keep them to 
this diet till they have done moulting, and afterwards 
feed them as you do the old ones, unless at any time 
they are sick, then continue it. 



CHAPTER X, 
CATTLE. 



SECT. I.-FOOD FOR CATTLE IN GENERAL. 

145. The Everlasting Pea, a valuable Crop for 

Cattle, 

The everlasting pea, commonly grown in gardens, 
would make an advantageous crop, especially in 
stony land, when the ground is broken up. When 
once sown, it will bear a crop for many years, with- 
out any annual trouble, except scattering some ma- 
nure, and getting in the crop. It should be cut for 
green food. 

Dr. Anderson says^ that the pods strained or 
bruised would yield a great supply of food lor 
cattle. 

1 46. Scotch Kale, excellent Food for Calth, 
Scotch kale planted out in June, in good land, 

will grow very large before winter, and would give 
an abundant supply for cattle, where no other juicy 
food is to be had. As it grows upwards, it may be 
planted close^ and a vast deal will stand upon an 
acre. 



CATTLE. 115 

147. The Virtues of Hay Tea for Cattle., 

When there Is a scarcity of hay, the following 
expei-iment will be found a valuable succedaneum 
to the cattle, and a great saving, to the farmer.. 

BoiL about a handful of hay in three gallons of 
water (and so in proportion for any greater or small- 
er quantity.) or if tiie water is poured boiling hot- 
on the hay it will answer nearly as well. .Give it 
to the catthe and horses to drink when cold ; or if 
the cattle or horses are any way ill, and under cov- 
er, give it them blood warm. 

This drink is saextrcmely nutritive that it nour- 
ishes the cattle astonishingly, iX replenishes the ud- 
der of the cows with a prodigious quantity of milk, 
makes the horses stale plentifully,, and keeps them- 
healthy and strong ; and by this method one truss 
or hundred of hay will go as far as eight or ten other- 
wise would do. The cattle and horses will not 
seem to like it at first, but if they are kept till they 
are very thirsty they will drink freely of it ever af- 
terwards. 

Farmers, and others, in Sweden, and other cold 
countries, who have cattle and horses, when they 
are in want of fodder,, constantly pursue this meth- 
od, and find the good effects of it ; and there is no 
doubt but this method would hav:e the same good ef*' 
feet on sheep in severe weather, when the sheep 
are housed, or the land covered with snow, espe^ 
cially if they were given a small quantity of salt^ (a 
praciice used in Spain to make the wool fine and 
soft,) to strengthen the sheep, and prevent the rot, 
for the stronger the sheep are the greater quantity 
of wool they will produce, and which will be much 
finer and softer than when the sheep are leaa. and 
weak. 

The hay, after being used as before-mentioned, 
and dried, may be used as a litter for horses or cat- 
tle J it makes very good manurcj and saves strawj 



116 CATTLE. 

which will be a considerable advantage, especially 
when there is a scarcity of that article. 

N. B. By a handful of hay, is meant as much as 
a person can grasp in his hand from a parcel of 
loose hay. And it is presumed and wished, as the 
above method is so easy and safe, that no person, 
who h.as-cattle, cows, horses, or sheep, will neglect 
to try it* 

This .method was followed with a cow, which 
was kept in a large city, for the sake of the children, 
where no green food could easily be got in winter, 
except the refuse of the vegetables used in the fami- 
ly. Boiling water was-poured into a tub half filled 
with hay, and the tub was covered till cold. But 
tiie cow eat the hay as well as the tea, seemed to be 
fond of both, and it was thought the milk was more 
plentiful. It was, in fact, a succedaneum for greea. 
food. 

148. A profitable Way of fattening Pigs* 

Put four pigs in a sty, for they feed best in com- . 
pany, but if there are too many they are apt to quar- 
rel ; feed them moderately the first week, and thrice 
during the second week mix with their barley meal 
as much antimony as will lie on a shilling ; and the- 
third week twice give them the same quantity. I 
need scarcely observe it is in powder.. 

This purifies the blood, gives them an appetite^ 
arjd makes them thrive apace. 



SECT. II.— BEST METHODS OF FEEDING 
AND MANAGING COWS. 

149. On the great Increase of Milk from feeding. 
Milch Coivs-^with Sainfoin, 

The quantity of milk produced by cows fed by 
sainfoin is nearly double to that of any other foody 



CATTLE, Jtl 

The milk is also much richer, and will yield a lar- 
ger quantity of cream. The butter will also be bet- 
ter coloured and flavoured than any other» 

150. Parsnips productive of Milk in Cozvs. 
Parsnips cause cows to produce abundance of 

milk, and they eat them as free as they do oil-cake. 
Land, 71. an acre in Guernsey, is sown with pars- 
nips to feed cattle, and the milk is like cream. — 
Sheep, when lambing, fed with them, produce 
much milk. They are improper food for horses,: 
subjecting them to blindness* 

151. Most proper Food for Milch Cozos, 

Milch cows are infinitely more profitable kept in 
the house than out of doors, but they must be train- 
ed to it, otherwise they do not thrive. 

The best food for them are clover, lucerne, pota- 
toes, yams, turnips, carrots, cabbages, peas, and 
beans. 

Such cows as those in the neighbourhood of Lon- 
don, kept in the house, and pro-perly fed, ought to 
yield nine gallons per clay, for the first four months 
after calving. 

152. Additional Quantity of Milk to he gained hy 

keeping Milch Cozos in the House.. 
In the management of cows a warm stable is 
highly necessary ; and currying them like horses, 
not only affords them pleasure but makes them 
give their milk more freely. They ought always 
to be kept clean, laid dry, and have plenty of good 
sweet water to drink. Cows treated in this manner 
have given two gallons of milk at a time, when with- 
in ten days of calving. 

153. To prevent Cows from contracting bad Habits 

while Milking, 

Cows should always be treated with great gentle- 
ness, and soothed by mild usage, especially when 



il8 MANAGEM^ENT OF CALVES. 

young and ticklish, or when the paps are tender, ih 
which case the udder ought to be fomented with 
warm water, before milking, and touched with the 
greatest gentleness, otherwise the cow will be in 
danger of contracting bad habits, becoming stub-' 
born and unruly, and retaining her milk everafter.- 
A cow never lets down her milk pleasantly to the 
person she dreads or dislikes. The udder and- 
paps should always be washed with clean water be- 
fore milking ; but care should be taken that none of 
that water be admitted into the milking- pail. 



SECT. riI.--MANAGEMENT OF CALVES. 

154, Successful Experiment of rearing Calves zvith^ 
out Milk, From Transactions of the Bath So- 
ciety^ vol, 5, 

Sir, Tyiherton, Dec, 3, 1789. 

The following is as near a calculation of the 
expenses of rearing my calves without milk, as I 
can at present assert. In the year 1787, 1 weaned 
seventeen calves; in 1788, twenty-three; and in 
1789, -fifteen. 1 bought, in 1787, three sacks of 
linseed ; I put one quart of ih^ seed to six quarts 
of water, which, by boiling ten minutes, became a 
good jelly ; this jelly is mixed with a small quantity 
of the tea of the best hay, steeped in boiling water. 
^ Having my calves to drop at different times, I 
did not make an exact calculation of the expense of 
this hay tea, but out of my three sacks of seed I had 
better than two bushels left at last. J gave them 
thejelly and hay tea three times a day; to the boy,. 
\v\\o looked after them, 6 J. per day ; the price of 
the linseed was 4^. 6J. per bushel : the whole three 
years' seed 2/. 5s, 

My calves are kept in a good growing state, and 
are much better at this time than my neighboursj 



CATTLE. 119 

'. that are reared by milk : they do not fall off so much 
when they come to grass. 

I am, (Sic. Thomas Crook. 

155, To make Hay Tea for Calx es. 

Take about one pound of red clover hay, well 
got in, and six quarts of clear spring water; boil 
them together till the water is reduced to four quarts ; 
then take out the hay, and mix a pound of barley, 
oat, or bean meaJ, amongst a litde water ; put it into 
the pot or cauldron, while it is boiling, and keep it 
constantly stirring until it is thickened. Let it 
cool, then give it to the calf, adding as much whey 
as will make a sufficient meal. This is a cheap 
way of rearing calves, and the valuable article of 
milk may be saved for other purposes. 

156. Excellent Method of rearing Calves, and of 
preserving the Cream., and a great Part of the 
Milk durins that Time, 

Put some water on the fire, nearly the quantity 
that the calf can drink. When it boils, throw into 
it one or two handfuls of oatmeal, and suffer the 
whole to boil for a minute. Then leave it to cool 
until new milk warm. Then mix with it one or two 
quarts of milk, that has stood twelve hours, and has 
been skimmed ; stir the whole, and give it the calf 
to drink. At first it is necessary to make the calf 
<]rink by presenting the fingers to it, but it soon 
learns to do without this help, and v/ill grow incom- 
parably faster than by the old method. This new 
.method is not only a theoretical truth, but its suc- 
cess is confirmed by experience. 

The economical advantages resulting from it are 
as follows : According to the old method, a calf in- 
tended for slaughter is made to suck for three weeks, 
and those intended for agriculture from six to eight 
weeks. Supposing the cow gives only a moderate 
quantity of milk, the value of it will amount, in 
three weeks, to nearly the value of the calf. If, on 



120 iroRSES. 

the conlrary, we rear a calf according to this meth- 
od, we consume during the three weeks only three 
quarts of oatmeal, at most, and the skimmed milk. 
Calves that have been brought up by this method 
have been always healthy and strong, and not sub- 
ject to disease. They are not suffered to suck at 
all, but to have tHe pure milk of the mother to drink 
for the first four days, because it has been observ- 
ed, that the separation, after four days, is more 
painful to the mother than when the calf is taken 
from her soon after its birth. 

157. To prevent Sickness in Calves about Michael' 

mas^ 

Take newly-churned fresh butter, without salt, 
and form of it a cup the ^ize of a hen's egg ; into 
this cup put three or four cloves of garlic bruised, 
and fill it up with tar ; do so for each calf: put this 
cup, &c. down each calf's throat : immediately af- 
terwards put into the calf's nostrils half a table 
spoonful of spirit of turpentine ; then tar the calf's 
snout well, and keep them within doors for an hour. 
The calves ought to be hoiised the night before this 
medicine is given* 



SECT. IV.— HORSES, 

1 58 . Utility of Carrots as Food for Morses and i)thtr 
stall Beasts-, 

Carrots are excellent food for horses, either giv- 
en alone, or along with hay, likewise for fattening 
stall beasts. They make them eat straw, and very 
indifferent hay, greedily. If the same be given to 
cows, the milk will have a much less offensive taste 
and smell than when they are fed on tuniips. 

Remark, — It must be noted, however, that car- 
rots, though a very^ excellent, are a very expensive 



HORSES. 121 

food. They would not enable a farmer to pay his 
rent. 

159. Benefit of Furze or Gorse as a Winter Food for 

Horses, 

Having a horse which had been overworked to 
the appearance of a surfeit, 1 treated him in the 
usual manner for that disorder ; and knowing how 
necessary it would be to his speedy recovery to 
give him green food after his physic, it occurred to 
me that furze might answer the purpose immediate- 
ly, as there could be none of the common herbage 
procured before the end of April at soonest. I there- 
fore had a quantity of the tops, and the tenderest 
parts of that plant, cut daily to preserve it, fresh, 
which I hashed upon a block, with a very long and 
heavy chopping knife, as small as possible, and then 
beat it again over the same block with a carpenter's 
mallet, (which blunted in a great measure the sharp 
prickles), and gave half a peck a day of it to the 
horse, (in the stable), which eat it most greedily, 
and received so much benefit from it that he is to- 
tally recovered, and carries a very fine coat. 
. The success of this experiment led me to consi- 
der the great utility this plant may be of to poor 
people who live in the neighbourhood of large com- 
mons overgrown with it, as food for cows in winter, 
when fodder is dear; and, in reality, none so proper 
for milch cattle as this green food, which must na- 
turally increase the milk, and from the fragrant 
smell it sends forth while cutting, it may reasonably 
be conjectured it will give no ill taste to it, as many 
vegetables do. 

Remark,' — In any^ituation, howe^'er, where furze 
could be extensively used as a food for cattle, chop- 
ping and beating would be found to be too expen- 
sive a process, thowgh it. has often been tried on a 
small scale, and the food is known to be excellent. 
Every leaf of the common furze of this countjw is 

L 



1^2 DISEASES OF CATTLE AND SHEEP. 

pointed by a prickle ; and the only cheap way of 
making the plant useful, is to bruise it to a pulp, 
between rollers in a mill. Such rollers, added to a 
thrashing machine, might, in some situations, be ve- 
ry usefuU 



SECT, v.— SHEEP. 

ti60. To mark Sheep without Injury to the Wool, 

To thirty spoonfuls of linseed oil add two ounces 
of litharge, and one ounce of lamp black/, unite them 
together by boiling, and mark the slieep therewith. 

161. To impro-i>e the Wool of Sheep by Smearing, 

Immediately after the sheep are shorn, soak the 
roots of the wool that remain all over with oil or 
butter and brimstone, and three or four days after- 
wards wash them with salt and water; the wool of 
next season will not only be much finer, but the 
quantity wMl be in greater abundance. It may be 
depended upon, that the sheep will not be troubled 
with the scab or vermin that year. Salt water is a 
safe and effectual remedy against maggots. 



SECT. VI. — DISEASES GF CATTLE AND 

SHEEP. 

162. 7''o preserve Cattle from Disease in the Winter, 

When catde are kept out in the winter, it is re- 
commended as an useful practice to rub some tar at 
the root of the horn^ which prevents the wet from 
getting between the root and the skin, and, it is said, 
contributes to preserve the health of the animal, and 
to keep it from various diseases to which It may 
otherwise be liable. 



DISEASES CF CATTLE AND SHEEP. 



^■t: 



163, Easy Method of preventing the Rot in Sheep, 

It is a custom with the farmers, in some districts, 
to pasture their sheep on ground abounding with 
broom for several days, when the broom is in blos- 
som. *' This," says Sir John Sinclair, on the autho- 
rity of an intelligent correspondent, " will prevent 
the sheep so pastured from being infected with the 
i^ot for that season." 

1 64. Parsley recommended to Farmers to he sown; 
toith Rape-Seed, as a preservative against the Resp 
in Sheep. 

A correspondent of the Chester Chronicle re- 
commends to all farmers, who sow rape-seed, to 
sow with it a small portion of parsley at the same 
time ; this he pronounces an infallible preservative 
against the malady well known by the name of 
rc5/?, in sheep; he also advises to sow parsley on 
turnip land at the tinie of hoeing turnips. The 
above correspondent asserts, that he has pursued 
this plan upwards of 25 years, and during that time 
he has never lost one sheep, either in rape or turn- 
ip land. 

Remark, — In some counties, parsley is sown with 
clover, on the supposition that it prevents cattle 
from being bursten, or hoven. 

Vij5, Cure of the Rot in Sheep, 

Take a quantity of rue leaves, bruise them well, 
express the juice, and add an equal weight of salt; 
when any of the sheep are in great danger of being 
rotten, give them a table-spoonful of this once a 
week ; and if they are not so bad, once in ten or 
twelve days. This will be found an excellent pre- 
servative, and, in fact, should always be given to 
sheep newly brought-in, as it may preserve them in 
health, and can do theifi no harm, let them be eves" 
5Q well. 



1^4 ■CEME.NTS. 

CHAPTER XL 

CEMENTS. 



IG6. AdmirahU Cement^ or Mortar^ as made on the 
Cotswold Hills, 

On the Cotswold Hills, in Gloccstcrshirc, where 
lime is clear, and sand not to be had, an excellent 
inortar is prepared at a moderate price. Invention 
is seldom niore successful, than when it is prompted 
by necessity. The scrapings of the public roads 
over these hills, being levigated limestone more or 
less impregnated with the dung and urine of the ani- 
mals travelling on them, are found to be a most ad- 
mirable basis for cement. The scrapings alone are 
frequently used for ordinary walls ; and ihe general 
proportion, for even the best buildings, is not more 
than one part lime to three of scrapings. This mor« 
lar, of less than ten years standing, has been ob- 
served to possess a stone-like tenacity, much firmer 
than the common stone of the country ; and, conse- 
quently, much harder than the stones from which 
cither the basis or the lime was madco The method 
of preparing this cement is simply by collecting 
the road scrapings, slacking the lime, and mixing 
them very thoroughly together; carefully picking 
out, as the mass is worked over, the slones or other 
foulnesses which may have been collected. For 
stone work, this is quite sufficient; for brick work^ 
it might be necessary to pass the materials througli 
a screen or sieve, previously to their being united^ 
and made up into mortar. Similar scrapings may be 
collected, wherever limestone is used as a material in 
making or repairing roads ; this admirable mortar 
can, therefore, readily be prepared, in all such 
places, with very little trouble or expense. 



CEMENTS. 12^ 

1G7. Useful Property of common Glue. 

Common glue, dissolved with linseed oil, will re- 
sist the weather. The glue should be melted with a 
very little water, before the oil is added. 

168. To make Size from Potatoes, 

One of the beneficial uses of potatoes, not per- 
haps generally known, is, that the starch of them, 
qjiite fresh, and washed only once, may be employ- 
ed to make size, which, mixed with chalk, and di- 
luted in a little water, forms a very beautiful and 
good white for ceilings. This size has no smell, 
while animal size, which putrifies so readily, al- 
ways exhales a very disagreeable odour. That of 
potatoes, as it is very little subject to putrefaction; 
appears, from experience, to be more durable in 
tenacity and whiteness ; and, for white-washings 
should be preferred to animal size, the decomposi- 
tion of which is always accompanied with unhealthy^, 
exhalations. . 

169." To make Patent Paste, ■ 

Boil a quantity of mealy potatoes, and mash them 
without peeling; then take as many, and one third 
more, of raw potatoes, and obtain the starch or flow- 
er from them, by grating them into a vessel of wa- 
ter, and reserving only the finer particles. The 
mashed potatoes are to be diluted, beat up, and pas- 
sed through a sieve. They are then to be put into 
a boiler, and when nearly boiling, the starch pro- 
duced from the grated potatoes is to be added, and 
the whole boiled together about twenty minutes, 
during which time it must be kept carefully stirred: 
it is then good paste, and is to be put into a wide 
vessel to cool. 

T70. A most excellent Glue, 

Beat an ounce of isinglass to shreds ; dissolve it 
gradually in a pint of brandy, by means of gentle 

l2 



126 CEMENTS. 

heal', and ihen strain the solution through a piece of 
fine muslin. The glue thus obtained should be kept 
in glass closely stopped. When required for use, it 
should be dissolved with moderate heat, when it 
will appear thin, transparent, and almost limpid. | 
When applied in the manner of common glue, its ef- 
fect is so powerful as to join together the parts of 
wood stranger than the wood itself is united. Tiiis 
glue dries into a very strong, tough, and transpa- 
rent substance, not easily damaged by any thing 
but aqueous, moisture, which renders it unfit for any 
use where it would be much exposed to wet or damp 
air. 

171. Parchment Glue, 

Take one pound of parchment, and boil it in six 
quarts of water, till the quantity be reduced to one, 
then strain off the dregs, and boil it again till it be 
of the consistence of glue. 

The same may be done with glovers' cuttings of 
leather, which make a colourless glue, if not burnt 
in the evaporation of the water. 

I4.9. To make Lip Glue, for joining Paper, Silkj 
or thin Leather, c^c. 

Take of isinglass and parchment" glues, of each 
one ounce ; sugarcandy and gum-tragacanth, each 
two drachms ; add to them an ounce of water, and 
boil the whole together till the mixture, when cold, 
isof the consistence of glue ; then form the same in- 
to small rolls, or any other figure that may be most 
convenient, and it will be fit for use. 

This glue may be wet with the tongue, and rub- 
bed on the edges of the paper, silk, or leather, that 
are to be joined ; and on being laid together, and 
-suftered to dry, they will be united as firmly as any 
cipher part of the subslanc!?^ 



CEMENTS. 127 

173. Preparation of common Cement for joining 
Alabaster, Marble, Porphyry, or other Stones, 

Take of bees'-wax two pounds, and of rosin one 
pound, melt them, and add one pound and a half ol 
the same kind of matter, powdered, as the body to 
be cemented is composed of, strewing it into the 
melted mixture, and stirring them well together, and 
afterwards kneading the mass in water, that the 
powder may be thoroughly incorporated with wax 
and rosin. The projK)rtion of the pov/dered matter 
may be varied, where required, in order to bring 
the cement nearer to the colour of the body oa 
which it is employed. 

This cement must be heated when applied ; as 
must also the parts of the subject to be cemented 
together; and care must be taken likewise, that 
they be thoroughly dry. 

When this composition is properly managed, it 
forms an extremely strong cement, which will even 
suspend a projecting body of considerable weight, 
after it is thoroughly dry and set, and is therefore of 
great use to all carver's in stone, or others who may 
have occasion to join tagether the parts of bodies of 
tiiis nature. 

Melted sulphur, applied to fragments of stones 
previously heated (by placing them before a fire) to 
at least the melting point of sulphur, and then join- 
ed with the sal[)hur between, makes a pretty firm 
and durable joining. 

Chips out of corners, and siniilar little deficiences 
in the stone, may also be filled up with melted sul- 
phur, in which some of the powder of the stone has 
been mixed : but the stone should be previously 
heated. 

174. Strong Cement, 

To prevent the escape of the vapours of water, 
spirit, and liquors not corrosive, the simple applica- 
Uon of slips of moistened bladder will answer very 



128 CEJVIENTS. 

well for glass, and paper with good paste for metal. 
Bladder, to be very adhesive, should be soaked some 
time in water moderately warm, till it feels clammy, 
it then sticks very well ; if smeared with white of 
eggs instead of water, it. adheres stilj closer. 

1 7.5. Fire Lute, .. 

For a fire lute, take porcelain clay from Corn- 
wall, (not pipe clay) let , it be pounded small, and' 
mixed up to the consistence of thick paint, with a 
solution of two ounces of borax in a pint of hot wa- 
ter. For want of this peculiar kind of clay, slacked 
quicklime mixed up in the same manner may be 
used. This may be kept ready mixed in a covered 
vessel. , 

na. . Cold Lute, . 

Take equal parts, by measure, of the above claj^ 
and wheat flour; mix them to a proper consistence 
with cold water. This is more tenacious than the 
fire lute, but does not keep so well. , 

177. Another, , 

A very exeellfeiU lute for many purposeb may be 
made by beating up an egg, both the white and the 
yolk, with half its weight of quicklime in powder. . 
This lute is to be put upon a piece of linen, and ap- 
plied as usual. It dries slowly, but becomes very .. 
compact, and acquires great hardness. 

178. . Cement for Iron Flues, 

Comman salt and sifted wood-ashes, equal parts, 
made into a paste with water, make a good cement 
for iron flues, &c. better than most other composi- 
tions, and- may be applied when the flue is hot or 
cold. . Iron-filings and vinegar will do as well, or 
rather iron-filings- moistened with diluted muriatic 
acid. These are commonly used for filling up the. 
spaces betvreen cylinders. , 



i 79. Blood Cement for repairing Copper Boilers, 

This cement is often used by coppersmiths, to 
lay over the rivets and edges of the sheets of cop- 
per in large boilers, to serve as an additional secu- 
rity to the joinings, and to secure cocks, &;c. froiiv 
leaking; it is made by mixing pounded quicklime 
v.'ith ox's blood. It must be applied fresh made, as 
it soon gets so hard as to be unfit for use. 

If the properties of this cement were duly invcs- 
ligatcd, it would be found useful for many purposes 
to which ithas never yet been applied* It is ex- 
tremely cheap, and very durable. 

IGO. To restore Cast Iron Furnaces, and Soap Pans, 
that through Accident or Mismanagement may be 
cracked* 

Take a small clod of fine new lime, slacked, and 
finely sifted, mix it up with white of eggs, well 
beaten, till it is of the consistence of pap or soft mor- 
tar, then add to it some iron file dust, and with this 
composition fill up the inside of the crack, (which 
will be sufficient) raising a little seam or bead 
Uj)on it, and it will soon become hard and fit for 
use. 

This experiment completely cured a gentleman's 
furnace which had a crack fourteen inches long, and 
he has boiled in it three or four days every week 
since, without the least inconvenience or prospect 
of its being again disunited. 

181. Composition for a Cement to resist the Action 
of Fire and Water, 

Take half a pint of milk, and mix with it an equal 
quantity of vinegar, so as to coagulate the milk. 
Separate the curds from the whey, and mix the lat- 
ter with the whites of four or ?[vt eggs, after beat- 
ing them well up. The mixture of these two sub- 
stances being, complete, add sifted quick-lime, awl 



13d OEMENTS^ 

make the whole into a thick paste of the -consistent 
cy of putty. If this mastic is carefully applied to 
broken bodies, or to fissures of any kind^ and dried 
properly, it resists water and fire. 

J 82. A Cement to resist Moisture, 

May be formed by melting by heat, without wa- 
ter, common glue, with half its weight of rosin -, to 
which must be added, some red ochre, to give it 
body; it is particularly useful for cementing hones 
to their frames. 

183. To make Japanese Cement, or Rice Glue. 

This elegant cement k made by mixing rice flour' 
intimately with cold water, and then gently boil- 
ing it. Jt is beautifully white, and dries almost 
transparent. Papers pasted together by means of 
this cement will sooner separate in their own sub- 
stance than at the joining, which makes it extreme- 
ly useful in the preparation of curious paper arti- 
cles, as tea-trays, ladles' dressing-boxes, and other 
articles which require layers of paper to be ce-- 
mented together. It is, in every respect, prefera- 
ble to common paste made w^ith wheat flour, for al- 
most every purpose to which that article is usually 
applied. It answers wetl^ in particular, for past- 
ing into books the 'copies of writings taken off by co- 
pying-machines on unsized silver paper. 

With this composition, made with a comparative- 
ly small quantity of water, that it may have the con- 
s-istence similar to plastic clay, models, busts, sta- 
tues, basso-relievos, and the like, may be formed. 
When dry, the articles made of it are susceptible of 
a high polish ; they are also very durable. 

The Japanese make quadrille fish of this sub- 
stance, which so nearly resembles those made of 
mother of pearl, that the officers of our East India* 
saen are often imposed upon. 



CEMENTS. 131 

i 84. Turkey Cement for joining Metals, Glass, <^c. 

The jewellers in Turkey, who are mostly Arme- 
nians, have a curious method of ornamenting watch 
cases, and similar things, with diamonds and other 
stones, by simply glueing them on. The stone is set 
in silver or gold, and the lower part of the metal 
made flat, or to correspond with the part to which it 
is to be fixed : it is then warmed gently, and the 
glue applied, which is so very strong that the parts 
never separate. This glue which may be applied to 
many purposes, as it will strongly join bits of glass 
or polished steel, is thus made : 

Dissolve five or six bits of mastic, as large as 
peas, in as much spirits of wine as will suflice to 
render it liquid ; in another vessel dissolve as much 
isinglass (which has been previously soaked in wa- 
ter till it is swollen and soft) in French brandy or in 
rum, as will make two ounces, by measure, of strong 
glue, and add two small bits of gum-galbanum, or 
ammoniacum, which must be rubbed or ground till 
they are dissolved ; then mix the whole with a suf- 
ficient heat. Keep it in a phial, stopped ; and when 
it is used set it in hot water. 

:iB5, An excellent Cement for broken China 

May be made from a mixture of equal parts of 
glue, white of egg, and white lead. 

J 86. Cement to mend broken China or Glass, 

Garlic stampt in a stone mortar ; the juice where- 
of, when applied to the pieces to be joined together, 
is the finest and strongest cement for that purpose, 
and will leave little or no mark if done with care. 

J 87. To prepare a Cement for joining broken Glass, 
China, Earthenware, c^c. 

Take two ounces of good glue, and steep it for a 
night in distilled vinegar ; boil them together the 
►next day 5 and having beaten a clove of garlic, with 



1-C52 CEDENTS. 

half an ounce of ox-gali, into a soft pulp, strain the 
juice through a linen cloth, using pressure, and add 
the same to the glue and the vinegar.; Then take 
gum sandarach powdered, and turpentine, of each 
one drachm, and of sarcocol and mastic powdered, 
each half a drachm, and put them into a bottle with 
an ounce of highly rectified spirits of wine. Stop the 
bqttie, and let the mixture stand for three hours in 
a gende heat, frequently shaking it. Mix this tinc- 
ture also with the glue while hot, and stir them well 
-together with a stick or tobacco pipe, till part of 
the moisture be evaporated ; then take the compo- 
sition from the fire, and it -will be fit for use. Yv^hen 
this cement is to be applied, it must be dipt in vine- 
gar, and then melted in a proper vessel, with a gen- 
tle heat; and if stones are to be cemented it is pro- 
])er to mix with it a little powdered tripoli or chalk; 
or if glass is to beconjoined,. powdered glass should 
be substituted. 

For the uniting the parts of broken china, or earth- 
enware vessels, as also glass, where the rendering 
the joint visible is not of consequence, the following 
composition, which is much more easily ;'>repared, 
may be substituted for the foregoing. 

Take an ounce of Suffolk cheese, or any other 
kind devoid of fat, grate it as small as possible, and 
put it, with an equal weight of quicklime, into three 
ounces of skimmed milk; mix them thoroughly to- 
gether, and use the composition immediately. 

Where the broken vessels are for service only, 
and the appearance is not to be regarded, the joints 
rnay be made equally strong with any other part of 
the glass, by putting a slip of thin paper, or linen, 
smeared with this cement, over them, after they are 
w^ell joined together by it. This method will make 
a great saving in the case of glasses employed for 
chemical, or other similar operations. 

A cement of the same nature may be. made by 
tempering quicklime with the curd of milk, Xill it be 



tlSMENTS-* 333 

cf a due consistence for use. The curd, in this case, 
should be as free as possible from the cream or oil 
of the milk. On this account it should be made of 
milk from which the cream lias been well skimmed 
off, ot the kind of curd commonly sold in the mark- 
ets, made of whey, and the milk from which butter 
has been extracted, commonly called butter-milk. 
This cement should be used in the same manner as 
the preceding, and they may be applied to stones, 
marble, &c. with equal advantage as the compound 
one above given, and is much more easy and cheap- 
ly prepared. 

Drying oil, with white lead, is also frequently 
used for cementing china and earthenware ; but 
where it is not necessary the vessels should endure 
heat or moisture, isinglass glue, with a little tripoU 
or chalk is better. 

183. To stop Cracks in Glass Vessels. 

The cracks of glass vessels may be mended, by 
daubing them with a suitable piece of linen over 
with white of egg^ strewing both over with finely 
powdered quicklime, and instantly applying the 
linen closely and evenly. 

189. Cement for preserving Wood and Brick. 

This composition is formed of the following ma* 
terials, viz. mineral or coal tar, pulverized coal/ 
(charcoal is esteemed the best) and fine well-slack* 
ed lime ; the coal and lime to be well mixed toge- 
ther, proportioned at about four-fifths coal and one- 
fifth lime : the tar to be heated, and while hot thick- 
ened with the mixture of coal and lime, until it be- 
comes so hard that it may be easily spread upon the 
surface of a board, and not run when hot. Turpen- 
tine or pitch will answer nearly as well as tar, and 
plaster of Paris will answer instead of lime ; to be 
tised in the same manner, and in about the same pro- 

M 



X34 GLOTIIES^ 

portions. The cement must be applied warm, and is 
found to be used easiest with a trowel. 

19X), Cement for Wood or Paper, 

Dissolve some isinglass in a small quantity of gin 
or proof spirit, by a very gentle heat ; and preserve 
it in a bottle for use* 

191. Another. 

Dissolve, isinglass two parts, and gum arable ift 
like manner with the preceding, and keep it in a 
hoiile for use* 



CHAP. XII. 

CLOTHES. 

iAnd see Chap, jxxxiii. Spxits or Stams, infra,) 



292. Receipt for Blacking. 

In tbree pints of small beer, put two ounces of 
ivory black, and one penny worth of brown sugar. 
As soon as they boil, put a desert-spoonful of sweet 
oil, and then boil slowly till reduced to a quart. Stir 
it up with a stick every time it is used 5 and put it 
on the shae with a brush when wanted. 

193* Another. 

Two ounces of ivory black ; one tea-spoonful of 
oil of vitriol, one table-spoonful of sweet oil ; and 
two ounces of brown sugar ; roll the same into a 
ball, and to dissolve it add half a pint of vinegar, 

194. Another. 

Take ivory black and brown sugarcandy, oieach 



CLOTHES. 13^ 

two ounces ; of sweet oil a table-spoonful ; add gra- 
dually thereto a pint of -vincgnr, cold, and stir the 
whole tiir gradually incorporated. 

1 95. Another. 

To one pint of vinegar add half an ounce of vi- 
triolic acid, half an ounce of copperas, two ounces 
of sugarcandy, and two ounces and a half of ivory 
black : mix the whole well together. 

196.. Another. 

Sweet oil, half an ounce; ivory black and treacle, 
of each half a pound; gum arabic, half an ounces 
vinegar, three pints ; boil the vinegar, and pour U 
hot on the other ingredients. 

197. Another. 

Three ounces of ivory black, one ounre of sugar- 
candy, one ounce of oil of vitriol, one ounce oF 
spirits of salts, one lemon, one table-spoonful of 
sweet oil, and one pint of vinegar. — First mix the- 
ivory black and sweet oil together, then the lemon 
and sugarcandy, with a little vinegar to qualify the 
blacking, then add your spirits of salts and vitriol, 
and mix them all well together. 

N. B. — The last ingredients prevent the vitriol 
and salts from injuring the leather, and add to the 
lustre of the blacking. 

198. Another. 

Ivory black, two ounces ; brown sugar, one ounce 
and a half; sweet oil. half a table-spoonful. Mix 
them well, and then gradually add half a pint of 
small beer. — Proved, 

199. Another. 

A quarter of a pound of ivory black, a quarter of 
a pound of moist sugar, a table-spoonful of flour, a 
piece of tallow about the size of a walnut, and a. 



131 GLOUHE^, 

small piece of gum arable. — Make a paste of the 
Hour, and while hot put in the tallow, then the su- 
gar, and afterwards mix the w4iole well together ia 
a quart of water, and you will have a beautiful shill- 
ing blacking. 

200. Blacking Balls for Shoes.. 

Mutton suet, four ounces, bees'-wax, one ounce, 
sugarcandy and gum-arabic, one drachm each, in 
fme powder; melt these well together over a gentle 
firc^ and add thereto about a spoonful of turpentine, 
and ivory and lamp black, sufficient to give it a good 
black ; while hot enough to run, you may make it 
into a ball, by pouring the liquor into a tin mould ;_ 
or let it stand till almost cold, you may mould it in 
what form you please by the hand. 

201. A celebrated Blacking Cake for Boots and- 

Shoes, 

Take one part of gum tragaeanth, foui* parts of 
river water, two parts of neats^-foot or some other 
softening, lubricating oil, two parts of superfine 
ivory black, one part of Prussian blue in fine pow- 
der, or indigo, four parts of brown sugarcandy ^ 
boil the mixture; and when the composition is of a 
proper consistence, let it be formed into cakes of 
such a size that each cake may make a pint of li- 
quid blacking. 

202. Easi/ Method of cleaning Boots and Shoes in 
the Winter-time, so as to prevent soiling the Per- 
son, the Clothes, or the House, 

When the boots or shoes are covered with dirt, 
take them off, and with the back of a case-knife, 
or a piece of wood cut thin at the edges like a sta- 
tioner's paper-knife, scrape th^ dirt off with the 
same as clean as possible, which will be very easi- 
ly done while the boots and shoes are wet. Then, 
lyith a small piece of wet sponge or flannel, wipe 



CLOTHE?. 13* 

ofT the remaining dirt which the pressure of the 
knife cannot effect. Then place them in a dry room, 
or at a convenient distance from the fire, for a few- 
hours, and they will take the blacking remarkably 
well, and bear as fine a polish as they did before 
wetting. If pi'oper attention is paid to this process, 
the fingers will scarcely be soiled, and much trouble 
will be saved by the extra brushing required when 
the dirt is suffered to dry on. 

203. Genuine Preparation of the Famous^ Chemicai' 

Liquid for Boot Tops, <^'C, 

Many of the liquids^ sold under various denomi- 
nations, for the purpose of cleaning and restoring 
the colour of boot tops, 8zc, are found very imper- 
fectly to answer that purpose, and often to injure the 
leather. The following genuine receipt may be ful- 
ly relied on, for actually producing this desirable 
effect ; as well as for readily taking out grease, ink 
spots, and the stains occasioned by the juice of 
fruit, red port wine, &:c. from all leather or parch- 
ment. — Mix in a vial, one drachm of oxymuriate. of 
potash with two ounces of distilled water; and, 
when the salt, is dissolved, add two ounces of muri- 
atic acid. Then, shaking well together, in another 
phial three ounces of rectified spirit of wine with 
half an ounce of the essential oil of lemon, unite the 
contents of the two phials, and keep the chemical li- 
quid thus prepared closely corked for use. This 
chemical liquid should be applied with a clean 
sponge, and dried in a gentle heat; after which, the 
boot tops may be polished with a proper brush, so 
as to appear like nev/. leather. 

204. To clean Boot Tops, or any Tanned Leather, 
Boil one quart of milk, let it stand till cold ; then 

take one ounce of oil of vitriol ; one ounce of spirits 
of salts ; shake them well together : and add one 



ISB CLOTHES* 

dunce of red lavender. You may put half a pint o^ 
vinegar, with the white of an egg beat to a froth. 

205. To prevent Shoes from taking in Water, 

One pint of drying oil, two ounces of yellow 
xvax, two ounces of turpentine, and half an ounce of 
Burgundy pitch, melted carefully over a slow fire. 
If new boots or shoes are rubbed with this mixture, 
either in the sun-shine or at some distance from the 
fire, with a sponge or soft brush, and the operation 
is repeated as often as they become dry, till the lea- 
ther is fully saturated, they will be impervious to 
•wet, and will wear much longer, as well as acquiring 
a softness and pliability that will preveat the leather 
from ever shrivelling.. 

JVb^e.— Shoes or boots prepared as above ought 
not to be worn till perfectly dry and elastic, other- 
wise their durability would rather be prevented 
than increased* 

206. To prevent Snow Water or Rain from penetrate 
ing the Soles of Shoes or Boots in Winter, 

This simple and effectual remedy is nothing more 
than a little bees'-wax and mutton suet, warmed in 
a pipkin, until in a liquid state ; then rub some of it 
slightly over the edges of the sole where the stitches 
are, which will repel the wet, and not in the least 
prevent the blacking from having its usual effect. 

207. To restore the lustre of Gold or Silver Lace^ 

when tarnished. 

When gold or silver lace happens to be tarnish- 
ed, the best liquor that can be used for restoring its 
lustre is spirits of wine ; it should be warmed be- 
fore it is applied to the tarnished spot. This appli- 
cation will preserve the. colour of the silk or em- 
broidery. 



CLOTHES* 13^ 

208. To cl&an Gilt Buckles or Toys. 

Rub a little soap on a soft brush, dip the same in 
water, and gently brush the article you intend clean- 
ing for a minute or two, then wash the same clean 
off, wipe it and place it near the lire till it is perfect- 
ly dry, then burn a piece of bread, pound it to a 
line powder, and brush your articles with it as you 
do silver goods with U'hitening. 

209. A black Varnish for Gentlemeri's old Straw or- 

Chip Hats. 

Take best black sealing-wax, half an ounce; rec- 
tified spirit of wine, two ounces ; powder the seal- 
ing-wax, and pat it, with the spirit of wine, into a 
four ou!ice phial ; digest them in a sand heat, or 
near a fire, till the wax is dissolved ; lay it on warm 
with a fine soft hair-brush, before a fire, or in the 
sun. It gives a good stiffness to old straw hats, and 
a beautiful gloss equal to new, and resists wet. If 
the hats are very brown they may be brushed over 
with writing ink, and dried before the varnish is ap- 
plied. Spirit of turpentine m-ay pi'obably be used ir> 
tlic place of the spirit of wine. 

210. To prevent Gentlemen'^ s Hats from being spotted 

after a Shozver of Rain* 

If your hat is wet from rain, or any other cause, 
shake it out as much as possible ; then with a clean 
linen cloth or handkerchief wipe the hat very care- 
fully as well as you can, observing, that in so doing 
you keep the beaver flat and smooth, in the same 
direction as it was first pl-aced, then with your hands 
fix it in the original shape, and hang it at a distance 
from the fire to dry. A few hours after, or the' next 
morning, lay the hat on a table, and brush it round 
and round several times with a soft brush in the pro- 
per direction, and you will find your hat not in the 
least injured by the rain. 



140 (?LOTH£Si 

If the gloss is not quite so high as you wish, taRe- 
a flat iron, moderately heated, and pass the same 
two or three times gently over thehat; brush it aft- 
erwards ; and it will be nearly as handsome as when 
first: sent home from the shop. 

211. Preventives againsi the Ravages of the Moth. 

The most usual preventives against the injury 
occasioned by the moth are cedar- wood and tobac- 
eo leaves. A piece of the former put into a box, i!* 
sufficiently large to emit its peculiar odour to what- 
ever may be contained in it, will effectually pre- 
serve the cloth from injury; and it is well knownf 
that in libraries- where there are books bound with 
Russia leather, which is tanned with eedar, nomoth^ 
or worm will corrupt. It is common to put cedar 
shavings and chips into boxes, &;c. which answer 
just as well as the wood itself.. 

Tobacco leaves may be placed at certain inter- 
vals in the folds of a piece of woolen cloth ; and it 
is sufficient to examhie them once in^sixmonths, in- 
order to renew the leaves if necessary. 

212. Easy Method oj" preventing Moths in Furs or 

Woolens. 

Sprinkle the furs or woolen stuffs, as well as the 
drawers or boxes in which they are kept, with spi- 
rits of turpentine; the unpleasant scent of which 
"w-ill speedily evaporate, on exposure of the stuffs to 
the air. Some persons place sheets of paper, mois- 
tened with spirits of turpentine, over, under, or be-- 
tween pieces of cloth, he. and find it a very effec- 
tual method. 

2 13. To preserve Furs, Woolens, <^c. 

Many woolen drapers put bits of camphor, the 
size of a nutmeg, in papers, on different parts of 
their shelves in their shop ; and as they brush their 
cloth? every two, three, or four monthsj this kecep^ 



CLOTHES. 14t 

chefii fre^ from moths ; and this should be done in 
boxes where furs, &:c. are put. A tallow candle is 
frequently put within each muff when laid by. 

214. To keep Moths, Beetles, ^c. from Clothes, 

Put a piece of camphor in a linen bag, or some 
aromatic herbs, in the drawers, among linen or. 
woolen clothes, and neither moth or worm will come 
near them. 

215. To purify Wool ivfestcd with Insects ,^. 

The process of purification consists in putting in- 
to three pints of boiling water a pound and a half of 
alum, and as much cream of tartar, which are di-- 
Juted in twenty-three pints more of cold water. The 
wool is then left immersed in this liquor during some- 
days, after which it is washed and dried. After this 
operation it will uo longer be subject to be attacked 
'by insects. 

216. Chinese Method of rendering Cloth Water-proof,. 

To one ounce of white wax, melted, add one 
quart of spirits of turpentine, which, when tho- 
roughly mixed and cold, dip the cloth in and hang 
It up to dry. By this cheap and easy method, mus- 
lin, as well as the strongest cloths, will be rendered 
impenetrable to the hardest rains, without the pores 
being filled up, or any injury done, when the cloth, 
is coloured. 

217. New Method of cleaning Silks, Woolens and 

Cottons, 

The following receipt is recommended as a good 
method of cleaning silk, woollen, and cotton goods, 
without damage to the texture or colour of the 
same : 

Grate raw potatoes to a fine pulp in clean water, 
and pass the liquid matter through a coarse sieve 
into another vessel of water;, let the mixture stand 



142 il> SLOTHES. 

Still till the fine white particles of the potatoes arc 
precipitated; then pour the mucilaginous liquor 
from the fecula, and preserve the liquor for use. 
The article to be cleaned should then be laid upon 
a linen cloth on a table, and having provided a clean 
sponge, dip the sponge into the potatoe liquor, and; 
apply it to the article to be cleaned, till th€ dirt k 
perfectly separated ; then v/ash it in clean water se- 
i^eral times. Two middle-sized potatoes will be suf- 
ficient for a pint of water. The white fecula will 
answer the purpose of tapioca, and make an. useful 
nourishing food, with soup or milk, or serve to make 
starch and hair-powder. The coacse pulp, v/hicli 
does not pass the sieve, is of great use in cleaning 
worsted curtains, tapestry, carpets, or other coarse 
goods. The mucilaginous liquor will clean all sorts 
of silk, cotton, or woollen goods, without hurting or 
spoiling the colour ; it may be also used in cleaning 
oil paintings, or furniture, that is soiled.. Dirtied 
painted wainscots may be cleansed by wetting a 
sponge in the liquor; then dipping it in a little fine 
elean sand, and afterwards rubbing the wainscot. 
with it. 

2J8. To stop the Rapidity of Flames uuhen the Fe-- 
male Di-ess happens accidentally to take Fire, 

If a wollen cloth was constantly kept in nurse- 
Fies and sitting-rooms, especially when there are 
fires, laid loose upon the table, or other piece of 
furniture^ this being always at hand, might be easi- 
ly resorted to in case of accident, and being wrapt 
tight round the flames, or strongly pressed against 
them. Would, by excluding the air, in many instan- 
ces, soon extinguish the fire. A green, baize cloth 
being very pliable, and likewise a neat cover to fur- 
niture, is recommended for this purpose; and if 
such were known in the family by the name of the 
Stifling Ctothjil probably would as req^dily be used,. 



'CLOTHES. 145 

when there was occasion for it, as five engines and 
buckets are now. Care must be taken to procure 
baize of a close texture. Where the convenience of 
baize cloth cannot be easily procured, as in cot- 
tages, &;c. a cloth cloak, riding-coat, or blanket, 
will answer much the same purpose^ A man's coat 
will always be useful ; and the first man that arcives 
ought to apply it. 

2 1 9. To prevent Clothes from Catching Fire* 

One of the most evident methods io prevent 
clothes from catching fire, is, to have wire fenders 
placed before the fire-place, of a sufficient height, 
to hinder the coals from flying into the room ; such 
fenders are so placed in some parlours, but more, it 
is believed^ for protecting the marble hearth and 
carpet, than for the safety of the females and chil- 
dren of the family. Wire screens are sometimes 
placed in rooms where birds are let loose, parallel 
to the fire-place ; such as these, if more projecting 
ones should be objected to, might be used in com- 
mon sitting-rooms. One or two strong metal bars 
would be some protection, if close wire-work should 
not be liked ; these, of course, should come some 
way forward, otherwise they would not be of much 
use. Certainly the safest are fenders of close wire- 
work, projecting into the room, sufficiently open to 
let the heat through, but not any coals which might 
ily from the fire. Nurseries, in particular, should 
have this sort. 

220. Permanent Ink for marking Linen, 

Take of lunar caustic, (now called argenium ni- 
tratum) one dram ; weak solution, or tincture of 
galls, two drams. The cloth must be first wetted 
with the following liquid, viz. salt of tartar, one 
ounce ; water, one ounce and a half; «nd must be 
perfectly dry before any attempt is m^de to write, 
upon it« 



144 CfcOTHES-. 

-221. Another: 

Dissolve one dram of lunar caustic, or fused ni*" 
trate of silver, which -is sold by the chemists for a^ 
bout 4d. in less than half ^n ounce of pure water, or 
water into which a drop or two of nitric acid has 
fallen. Add as much clear solution of gum arabic as 
will enable you to write freely ; and the mixture 
will soon become opaque, of a dark greenish hue* 
A little charcoal, or rather indigo, ground very fine, 
may be added, to make the traces of the letters 
more visible as you form them, for otherwise they 
would not be very distinct unless written in the sun, 
or a strong light. But this is in part answered by 
the dark hue given to the gum. 

222. Another, 

Pour about twenty-five parts of boiling water 
over one part of quick-lime and two of soda. In 
the clear weak ley obtained by filtration or deposi- 
tion, dissolve a little isinglass, or the scraped epi^ 
dermis of the skin, and add as much soda in powder 
as was used for the ley ; isinglass, or even glue, 
dissolved in water, will answer ; but the colour is 
not so brilliant, and the solution soon putrifies ; — 
that made with soda will keep for years. 

Wet thoroughly with the solution of isinglass the 
part of the cloth whii:h is to be marked ; dry it well 
and smooth it with a bit of silver or glass ; then 
write lightly with a cl-ean pen, and expose the writ- 
ing for a minute to the sun, or a short time to the 
day-light. The supei-fiuous.glue should not be wash- 
ed out till the next day^ 

If there be too much nitrat in the ink, it will be 
^pt toru« or blot. In that case dilute it with clear 
gum-water. If there be too litde nitrat the ink will 
be pale ; then drop a small bit of the fused nitrat in- 
to the vial. 

The caustic must be lifted in paper or with the 



dLOTHE'fe. 1411 

points of the scis?ia'rs, as before it -is dissolved it 
burns the fingers ; and even the solution makes an 
•indelible stain on the skin and the nails. 

The ink bottle should be wrapped in strong pa- 
per, or kept in a dark place, and not exposed for 
any long time to the sun or light* 

223. To perfume Linen, 

Rose leaves dried in the shade, cloves beat to a 
powder, and mace scraped : mix them together, and 
put the composition into little bags. 

224. To raise the Surface or Pile of Velvet zvJien 

pressed down. 

Warm a smoothing-iron moderately, and cover it 
with a wet cloth, and hold it under the velvet; the 
vapour arising from the heated cloth will •raise the 
pile of the velvet, with the assistance of*a rush 
whisk. 

225. To prevent Danger from Wet Clothes, 

Keep if possible in motion, and take care not to 
go near a fire orinto any very warm place, so as to 
-occasion a sudden heat, till some time after you 
have been able to procure dry clothes. 

226. Useful Hints relative to Bedclothes^ Maiircsses, 

Cushions, &.:. 

The pm'ity of feathers and wool emploj^ed for 
mattresses and cushions ought to be considered as 
-a first object of salubrity. Animal emanations may, 
under many circumstances, be prejudicial to the 
health ; but the danger is still greater when the 
wool is impregnated with sweat, and the excremen- 
titious parts of persons who have experienced pu- 
trid and contagious diseases. Bedclothes and the 
wool of mattresses, therefore, cannot be too often 
beat, carded, cleaned, and washed. This is a cau- 
tion which cannot be too often recommended* 



116 CLOTHES. 

It would be very easy in most situations, and ve- 
ry effectual, to fumigate them with muriatic gas. 

227 To clean Silk Stockings, 

Wash your stockings first in white soap liquor, 
lukewarm, to takeout the rough dirt; then rinse 
triem in fair v^ater, and work them well in a fresli 
soap liquor. Then make.a third soap liquor, pretty 
strong, in which put a litde stone blue, wrapped in 
a flannel bag, till your liquor is blu^ enough ; then 
wash your stockings well therein, and take them out 
and wring them. Then let them be dried so that 
they may remain a little moist ; then stove them with 
brimstone, after which,, put. upon the wood leg two 
stockings, one upon the other, observing that the 
two fronts, or outsides, are face to face, then polish 
them \ytfi a glass. 

N. B. The two first soap liquors must be only 
lukewarm, the third soap liquor as hot as you can 
bear your hand in it. 

Blonds and gauzes are whitened in the same 
manner, only a little gum is put in the soap liquor 
belore they are stoved. 

228. Preservutive from Moths in Clothes or Book's* 

Get some narrow slips of the best Russia leather, 
and lay the same indiscriminately among the clothes, 
books, &;c. The leather may be procured at any 
bookbinder's in town, and a pound, which will last 
a long time, costs about a shilling. This will have 
the desired effect, it having been frequently used 
with great success. 

1229. Composition for restoring Scorched Linen, 

Boil, to a good consistency, in half a pint of vine- 
gar, two ounces of fuller's earth, an ounce of hen's 
dung, half an ounce of cake soap, and the juice of 
tvyo onions. Spread this composition over the whole 
mi the damaged part ; and, if the scorching were not 



fjuTtc tbrougli, and the threads actually consumed, 
after suffering it to dry on, and letting it receive a 
subsequent good washing or two, the place will ap- 
])car full as white and perfect as any other part of 
the linen. 

230. Vulgar Error respecting the putting of Spirits 
into the Boots or Shoes to prevent the Effects ofCokL 

The custom of pouring brandy into the boots or 
shoes, when the feci have got wet, with a view to 
prevent the effects of cold, is a practice which 
(though very common) is founded in prejudice and 
Ittisconception, and often proves fatal, by bringing 
on inflammation and consequent obstruction in the 
bowels. This practice is adopted on the supposition 
that, because spirits, when swallowed, excite an 
universal warmth and restore the circulation in the' 
extremities, they must do the sauie when applied to 
the extremities themselves. But the reverse hap- 
pens. Fluids, when evaporating, produce cold ; and 
the lighter or more spirituous the fluid, the more 
quickly it evaporates, and the greater the degree of 
cold generated. This may be proved by a very sim- 
ple experiment. If one liand be wetted with spirit 
and the other with water, and both are held up to 
dry in the air, the hand wetted with spirit will feel 
infinitely colder than the other; or if the bulbs of 
two thermometers be so treated, the mercury will 
be observed to fall much more rapidly and exten- 
sively in the one case than in the other. Whatever 
i^anger, therefore, arises from cold or damp feet, it 
is generally enhanced by the practice alluded to. If 
such a remedy is to be at all employed, it ought, un?- 
tloubtedly, to be taken into the stomach. 



H$ eURipSlTIES* 

CHAPTER XIII. 

CURIOSITIES. 



33 1 . Sir Asliion Lever^s Method of preserving Birds 
and Beasts, 

Beasts. — Large beasts should be carefully skin- 
Hcd, with the horns, skull, jaws, tail, and feet, left 
entire ; the skins may then either be put into a ves- 
sel of spirit, or else rubbed well in the inside with 
the mixture of salt, alum, and pepper, hereafter 
mentioned, and hung to dry* Small beasts may be 
put into a cask of rum, or any other spirit. 

Birds.- — Large birds may be treated as large 
beasts, but must not be put in spirits. Small birds 
may be preserved in the following manner : — take 
out the entrails, open a passage to the brain, v/hicii 
should be scooped out through the mouth ; intro- 
duce into the cavities of the skull, end the whole bo° 
dy, some of the mixture of salt, alum, and pepper, 
putting some through the gullet and whole length of 
the neck ; then hang the bird in a cool airy place, 
first by the feet, that the body may be impregnated 
by the salts, and afterwards by a thread through 
the under mandible of the bill, till it appears to be 
sweet, then hang it in ihe sun, or near a fire ; aftep 
it is well dried, clean out what remains loose of the 
mixture, and till the cavity of the body with wool,, 
oakum, or any soft substance, and pack it smooth 
in paper. 

Fishes, <Sz;c. — Large fishes should be opened in 
the belly, the entrails taken out, and the inside well 
rubbed with pepper, and stuffed with oakum. Small 
fishes put in spirit, as well as reptiles and insects, 
except butterflies and niothsj and any insects of fiat^ 



DAIRY, 149^ 

colours, should be pinned down in a box prepared- 
for that purpose, with their wings expanded. 

232. Birds shot in this Kingdom, 

When fresh killed, observe to put tow into the 
mouth, and upon any wound they may have receiv- 
ed, to prevent the feathers being soiled; and then 
wrap it smooth, at full length, in paper, and pack, 
it close in a box. If it be sent from a great distanc'e, 
the entrails should be extracted, and the cavity fil- 
led with tQW dipt in rum or other spirit. The fol- 
following mixture is proper for the preservation oi 
animals; one pound of salt, four ounces of alum, 
and two ounces of pepper, powdered together. 

233. Rules for collecting Curiosities on Sea Voyages.' 

Set apart, a small cask of spirits, into which put 
every uncommon sea production you may meet with 
during the voyage, and wrap every article separate 
i{i-a rag, or a little oakum. 



CHAPTER XIV. 
DAIRY, 



23*4. Proper Ttmperalurc for a Dairy, 

The apartments appropriated for dairy purposo^ 
should, impossible, possess a moderate temperaturt: 
throughout the year, and shculd be kept perfectly 
clean and dry. The temperature of about fifty-five 
degrees is most favourable for the separation of the 
cream from the milk. The utensils of the dairy are 
best made of wood ; lead and copper are soluble in 
acid, and highly pernicious ; and though iron is not 



.. (^ 



ioO DAIRY. 

injurious, the taste of it might render the produce of 
the dairy uopalatable. 

^35. Rules for milking Cows, 

Gows should be milked three times a day, if fully 
fed, throughout the summer; and great caution 
should be exercised by the persons employed, to 
dr^w the milk from them completely, not onty^o in- 
crease the quantity of produce, but to preserve its 
quality. Any portion which may be left in the ud- 
der seems gradually to be absorbed into the system, 
and no more is formed than enough to supply the 
loss of what is taken away ; and, by the continu- 
ance of the same mode, a yet farther diminution of 
the secretion takes place, until at length scarcely any 
is produced. This last mode of milking is always 
practised when it is intended that a cow should be 
rendered dry* 

336. Method of makmg excellent Rutter from the 
Milk of Cows fed upon Turnips* 

Let the bowls, either lead or wood, be kept con- 
stantly clean, and well scalded with boiling water,, 
before using. When the milk is brought into the 
dairy, to every eight quarts mix one quart of boil- 
ing water ; then put up the milk into the bowls ta 
stand for cream. By keepin.g strictly to this method,, 
you will have, during the winter, constantly sweet 
and well-tasted butter from the milk of cows fed up- 
on turnips. 

237» Improved Method of m>aking Butter. 

If the dairy consist of three or four cows they 
should be milked in the summer thrice a day ; in the 
morning, at noon, and in the evening. Eack milking 
must be kept by itself, in flat wooden vessels, to cool 
in like manner ; and thus in succession for two or 
three days, according to the temperature of the air, 
the milk thickening, and thejjce is fit for churning^ 



DAIRY. 151 

soonest in the warmest weather. The quantity of 
butter will be generally in the proportion of a pound 
(twenty-two ounces) for each ten pints, or five Eng- 
lish gallons of milk. In winter the cows are to be 
milked only twice a day, and the milk is to be put 
into the churn warm from the cow, where it must 
stand a day or two longer than iii summer before \t 
becomes sufllciently thick; although, to promote 
the coagulation, it is sometimes brought near the 
kitchen fire, particularly on the preceding night be- 
fore it is churned ; and, in intense cold, it will be 
necessary to add a small quantity of boiling water. 
The operation of churning is performed with the 
plunge churn, from two to three hours, for thirty or 
forty pints of milk ; and at the last stage of the pro- 
cess, a little cold water thrown in has the effect of 
promoting the separation of the butter from the milk, 
and making it twice a day : and even before the 
cloth is taken otf, the top and bottom, are well rub- 
bed every day. 

N. B. The dairy-maid must not be disheartened 
if she does not succeed perfectly in her first at- 
tempt. 

238. Dr, Anderson'' s Method of keeping Milk and 

Butter, 

The pernicious method of keeping milk in leaden 
vessels, and salting butter in stone jars, begins to 
gain ground in this country, as well as elsewhere, 
from an idea of cleanliness. The fact is, it is just 
the reverse of cleanliness; for, in the hands of a 
careful person, nothing can be more cleanly than 
wooden dishes, but under the management of a slat- 
tern, they discover the secret, which stone dishes 
do not. 

In return, these latter communicate to the butter, 
and the milk, which has been kept in them, a poi- 
sonous quality, which inevitably proves destructive 



f52 DISTILLING. 



to the human constitution. To the prevalence of thia 
practice, I have no doubt (says the doctor) we must- 
attribute the frequency of palsies, which begin to, 
prevail so much in this kingdom; for the well- 
known effect of the poison of lead is, bodily debili- 
ty, palsy, death ! . 



CHAPTER XV:. 
DISTILLING., 



239.. A cheap Refrigerator or Condenser, 

A short, somewhat flat, vessel, two yards ia- 
length, nine square feet surface, with the same quan- 
tity of cold water, has a greater cooling power than. 
a worm ©f five spiral turns and six yards length 5; 
and if there be a small pipe to connect the still and 
the condenser, the condensing water will continue- 
cold a much longer time. 

240. To try the Purity of' Spirits* . 

See if the liquor will burn away without leaving.: 
any moisture behind* As spirit is much lighter than.v 
water, place a hollow ivory ball in it; the deepei> 
the ball sinks, the lighter the liquor, and conse- 
quently more spirituous. 

241. To cure Spirituous Liquor of bad Flavour* 

If common raw spirits be agitated with charcoal,, 
they v/ill be deprived of their bad flavour { but if 
kept in the cask long afterwardsj are ycry apt to re- 
sume the old flavour... 



DISTILLING. 153 

24:2. hnprovement of Smell and Taste of common 
Ardent Spirits* 

By distilling eight ounces of common ardent spi- 
rits (corn or malt spirits) over one ounce of charcoal 
powder, the smell and taste are Considerably im- 
proved. 

2^43. To improve the Flavour of Malt Spirits. 

The flavour of malt spirits is said to be highly 
improved, by putting three ounces and a half of. 
finely powdered charcoal, and four ounces and a 
half of ground rice, into a cuart of spirits, and let- 
ting it stand during fifteen days, frequently stirring^ 
it; then let the liquor be strained^ and it will be 
found nearly of the same flavour as brandy. . 

244. Expeditious Method of distilling simple Wa- 
ters* 

Tie a piece of muslin, or gauze, over a glazed 
earthen pot, whose mouth is just large enough tore-- 
ceive the bottom of a warming-pan ; on this cloth 
lay your herb clipped, whether mint, lavender, or 
whatever else you please ; then place upon them 
the hot warming-pan, with live coals in it to cause 
heat just enough to prevent burning, by which 
means, as the steam issuing out of the herb cannot 
mount upwards, by reason of the bottom of the pan 
just fitting Uie brim of the vessel below it, it must 
necessarily descend, and collect into water at the 
i)ottom of the receiver, and that strongly impregnat- 
ed with the essential oil and salt of the vegetable 
thus distilled ; which, if you want to make spirituous, 
or compound water of, is easily done, by simly ad- 
ding some good spirits, or French brandy to it, which 
will keep good for a long time, and be much better 
than if the spirits had passed through a still, which 
must of necessity waste some of their strength. 
Qare should be taken not to let the fire be too strong. 



J 54 DXSTILLiKO*- 

Lest it scorch the plants ; and to be made g{ char^ 
coal, for continuance and better regulation, which, 
must be managed by lifting up and laying down the 
lid, as you want to increase or decrease the degrees 
of heat. The deeper the earthen pan, the cooler the 
season ; and the less fire at first (afterwards to be 
grad,ually raised), in the greater perfection will the- 
distilled water be obtained. 

As the more moveable, or volatile parts of vege- 
tables, are the aqueaus, the oily, the gummy, the- 
resinous, and the saline, these are to be ex[)ccted in- 
the waters of this process; the heat here employed 
being so great as to burst the vessels of the plants, 
some of which contain so large a quantity of oil, 
that it may be seen swimming on the surface of the 
water. 

Medical waters thus procured will afford us near- 
ly all the native virtues of vegetables and give us a 
mixture of their several principles, whence they in a 
manner come up to the expressed juice or extract 
gained therefrom : arid if brandy be at the same- 
time added to these distilled waters, so strong of oil 
and salt, a compound, or spirituous water, may be 
likewise procured, at a cheap and easy rate. 

Ahhough, a small quantity only of distilled Water 
can be obtained at a time by this combined opera- 
tion, yet it compensates in strength what is deficient 
in quantity, • 

Such liquors, if well corked up from the air, will 
keep good a long time, especially if about a twenti^ 
eth part of any spirits be added, in order topreserve^ 
ijhe sairue more effectual ly. 



TJOMESTIC ECOXOMY. 155 

CAAPTER XVI. 
DOMESTIC ECOjVOMY. 



"245. Topurify Infectious Air in a Boom, 

Fumigate the apartment with muriatic acid gas, or 
vith a little oxymuriatic gas. Care must be taken 
not to inhale the oxymuriate, as it is poison. 

246. To preserve Fish and Meal in the Portuguese 

Manner, 

The Portuguese make a trade of what they call 
pesche molice^ which is fish cut in small pieces, with 
salt and sugared tamarind. Fish thus pr<3servcd may- 
be carried to sea, and will not be found too salt. 
Meat may also be thus preserved, by throwing away 
ihe stones and strings of the tamarinds, and adding 
a small portion of Cayenne pepper. 

247. Easy Method of preserving Animal Food sweet 
for several Days in the Height of Summer, 

Veal, mutton, beef, or venison, may be kept for 
nine or ten days perfectly sweet and good, in the 
heat of summer, by lightly covering the same with 
bran, and hanging it in a high and windy room ; 
therefore, a cupboard full of small holes, or a wire 
safe, so as the wind may have a passage through, is 
recommended to be placed in such a i*oom, to keep 
away the flies. 

248. To preserve Game in Hot Weather, 

Game or poultry may be preserved for a long 
time, by tying a string tight round the neck, so as to 
exclude the air, and by putting a piece of charcoal 
into the vent. 



156 DOME'STIC ECONOMIC 

249. To preserve Meat hy Treacle, 

Tfeis experiment has been successfully tried ifi 
the following manner :— A gentleman put a piece of 
beef into treacle, and turned it often. At the end of 
a month he ordered it to be washed and boHed, and 
had the pleasure to find it quite good, and more 
pleasant than the same piece would have been in 
salt for that time. But the expense of this method 
must confine it to the opulent. 

250. To preserve BeeJ and Mutton, in a sound State, 

aVoyageio'the West Indies, 

As soon as the meat is cold it must be cut up in 
quarters, and sprinkled with the following ingredi- 
ents > lignum vitag, in fine chips, one pound ; com- 
mon salt, four ounces; coarse sugar, four ounces; 
salt prunella, half an ounce: when it has been well 
-sprinkled in, close the whole in sheet lead, lay it in 
a chest, and fill it with fresh saw-dust. Meat so 
prepared has been kept two months in the finest 
order. When taken out to be dressed it should be 
wiped and scraped clean, and loasted as quick as 
possible. 

25 1 . The useful Properties of Charcoal, for sweeten^ 

ing the Breath, cleaning the Teeth, ^-c. 
All sorts of glass vessels and other utensils may 
\->Q purified iVom long retained smells of every kind, 
in the easiest and most perfect manner, by rinsing 
them ont well with charcoal powder, after the gros- 
ser impurities have been scoured off" with sand and 
potash.. Rubbing the teeth, and washing out the 
mouth, with fine charcoal powder, will render the 
teeth beautifully white, and the' breath perfectly 
sweet, where an ofiensive breath has been owing to 
a scorbutic dispostion of the gums. Putrid water is 
immediately deprived of its olfensive smell by char^ 
coalo 



2.j2. To szcectcn Meat, Fish, <^x, that is tainted. 

When moat, fish, &zc, from intense heat, or long 
keeping, are likely to pass into a state of corruption, 
a simple and pure mode of keeping them sound and 
healthful is by putting a few pieces of charcoal, each 
the size of an egg, into the pot Or saucepan, where- 
in the fish or flesh are to be boiled. Among others, 
an experiment of this kind was tried upon a turbot, 
which apj)cared to be too far gone to be eatable: 
the cook, as advised, put three or four pieces of 
charcoal, each th« size of an egg, under the strain- 
er, in the fish kettle ; after boiling the proper time, 
the tiirbot came to ta-ble perfectly sweet and firm. 

2j3. To purify jiy-hlown Meat-, 

It has been successfuWy proved-, by many exper* 
iments, that meat entirely fly-blown, has been suf- 
ficiently purified to make good broth, and had not 
a disagreeable taste, by being previously put into a 
vessel containing a certain quantity of beer. The 
liquor will become tainted, and have a putrid smell. 

254. To cure tainted Fish^ 

Tainted fish may be much restored to its proper 
flavour by mixing a quantity of vinegar and salt ia 
the water in which the fish is to be boiled* 

255* To preserve Water and Meat, from Putrefac- 
tion, in long Voyages-. 

The crews of the two Russian ships, which lately 
sailed round the world, were extremely healthy* 
During the whole three years of their voyage only 
two men died of the crew of the Neva, and the Na- 
vesha did not lose a single man* It is already known 
that their fresh water was piTserved in charred 
casks, but it is not so generally known that they us- 
ed the same precaution for preserving their salted 
provisions. The beef they carried out with them 

o 



IS'S DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

tasted as pleasantly upon their return, as it did tliree 
years before, when first salted* 

^50, To detect Dampness in a Bed, 

Let your bed be first well warmed, and immedi- 
-atcly as the warming-pan is taken out, introduce be- 
tween the sheets, in an inverted direction, a clear 
glass goblet ; after it has remained in that situation 
a fe^v minutes, examine it ; if found dry, and not 
tarnished with drops of wet, for there will often ap- 
pear a slight cloud of steam, the bed is safe ; but if 
drops of wet or damp adhere to the inside of the 
glass, it is a certain sign of a damp bed. Even 
wearing apparel, when on the person, will in most 
parts of England, by the application of a warming- 
pan, stain glass with a slight steam, but not drops of 
wet. Or, take oir the sheets and sleep in the blank- 
ets, 

S57. Hints on Warmin-g Beds, 

In tal<:iHg the coals into the warming-pan, remove 
therefrom any black coals in a burning state, and 
scatter upon those in the pan a little common salt; 
this will correct the unhealthy sulphureous vapour 
<)f the coals, and prevent their suffocating smell. 

258. Beef Tea. 

Tak€ lean beef, a pound, cut it in thin slices, 
put it into a quart of water, boil it a quarter of an 
hour 5 then take out the meat, mince it small, and 
boil it a quarter of an hour more, skimming it well, 

259. Improvement in the Management of Bees, 

The improvement is that of having double skeps 
jor hives, the one on the top of the other. When the 
iower skep is filled with honey, it is to be removed 
after the b^es are admitted (through a passage which 
is made to be opened) into the upper skep ; into 
Ikis skep food must be put, and the bees will remain 



jOaMESTIC ECOXOMr. i^^ 

there, and go on with their work in it. When it is 
filled with hone}^, the former skcp, with food in it, 
may be replaced, and the bees again admitted into 
it. The full skep is then to be taken away. This 
change of the skcps must always be made about 
Midsummer ; and by thus annually removing the full 
one, more honey wiU be collected than is usual, and 
the bees will not be destroyed* 

260. Approved Method of removing Bees, 

Set the hive where there is only a glimmering 
light ; turn it up ; the queen first makes her appear- 
ance ; once in possession of her, you are master of 
all the rest ; put her into an empty hive, whither 
she will be followed by the other bees. 

261. Useful Method of preserving Bees, as lateli^ 

adopted in America, 

Instead of destroyiiig whole swarms in thefr 
hives, to get the honey when the hives are full, they 
t'lear them out into a fresh hive, while they take the 
combs out of the old one ; and they prevent their 
perishing in winter by putting a great quantity of 
honey into a very wide earthen vessel, covering its 
surface with paper, exactly fitted on-, and pricked 
full of holes with a large pin 3 this being pressed by 
tlic v/eight of the bees keeps a fresh supply contin- 
ually arising. Their most fatal destruction by se- 
, ere cold they prevent, by taking as many large 
tubs as they have Iitves, and knocking out the 
heads, they set the other end in the ground, laying 
a bed of dry earth or chopped hay in it, of six inch- 
es deep ; over this they place the head knocked 
out, and then make a small wooden trough for the 
passage of the bees ; this is transfixed through a 
hole cut through each side of the tub, at such a 
height as to lay on the false bottom, on which is 
placed the covered dish af honey for the food of the 



.IQB> DOMES TIC ECON^OJIY^ 

"bees, lea-vinga proper space over this covered \Titli. 
strong matting; they then iiii up the tub with more 
dry earth, or chopped hay, heaping it up in the 
form of a cone, to keep out the rain, and wreathing^ 
it over with straw on account of the warmth. This 
method is so secure, that out of a hundred tubs, a 
few winters since, v/hen this experiment was tried, 
. not one of them was known to fail. The quantity oi 
honey this way obtained has been amazing, and be-^ 
sides, must every year increase, wherever the ex- 
ample is followed. 

"262. Chinese Method of mendmg China. 

Take a piece of flint-glass, beat it to a fine pow- 
der, and grind it v/ell with the white of an egg, and 
it joins, china without rivetting, so that no art caa 
break it in the same place. You are to observe, 
that the composition is to be ground extremely finQ 
on a painter's stone* 

263. To discover Vitriol in Beer, 

A decoction of galls will turn it blackish, if this, 
be the case. 

264. Excelierd Saostitutefor Tabic Beer, 

As small beer is apt to become sour in warm 
weather, a pleasant beer may be made, by adxJing 
to a bottle of porter ten quarts of water, and a 
pound of brown sugar or molasses. After they have 
been well mixed^. pour the liquor into boltles, and 
place them, loosely corked, in a cool cellar. In two. 
or three days it will be fit for use. A spoonful of 
ginger, added to the mixture, renders it more lively 
and agreeable to the taste. This might be adopted 
in the navy instead of grog. 

265. To make good Spruce Beer, 

This cheap and wholesome liquor is thuB made : 
take of water sixteen gallons^, and boil the half of 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY. IGI 

k ; put the water thus boiled, while in full heat, to 
the reserved cold part, which should be previously 
pjut into a barrel or other vessel; then add IG 
pounds of treacle or molasses, with a few table- 
spoonfuls of the essence of spruce, stirring the 
whole well together ; add half a pint of yeast, and 
keep it in a temperate situation, with the bung-hole 
open, for two days, till the fermentation be abated ; 
then close it up, or botde it otf, and it will be fit to 
drink in a few days afterwards. In North America^ 
and perhaps in other countries, where the black and 
white spruce firs abound, instead of adding the es- 
sence of the spruce at the same time with the molas- 
ses, they make a decoction of the leaves and small 
branches of these trees, and find the liquor equally 
good. 

It is a powerful antiscorbutic, and may prove ve- 
ry useful in a long sea voyage. 

2GG, New-Invented Composition to be used instead of^ 

Yeast,. 

To make eight quarts of this composition, boil iiv 
:ommon water eight pounds of potatoes, as for eat- 
ing; bruise them perfectly smooth, and mix with 
them, whilst warm, two ounces of honey, or any 
other sweet, and one quart (being the eighth pai't of 
a gallon of yeast) of common yeast. And, for mak- 
ing bread, mix three beer pints of the above com- 
position with a bushel of fijur, using warm water iii. 
making the bread ; the water to be v/armer in win- 
ter than in summer ; and the composition to be used, 
in a few hours after it is made ; and as soon as the 
rponge (tlic n>ixture of the composition with the 
■lour) begins to fall the first time; the bread should 
be made and put in the oven* 

2.67.^ To make Ediths Air-tight, 

This may be done without luting or grinding, and 
consists ia- only having a groove round the xiecfe,, 

O 3 



I6i2 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

into which the cap fits, so that the groove may be" 
charged with water or mercury. „ 

268. To loosen the Glass Stopples of Smelling Bof- 

' ties and Decanters, 

With a feather rub a drop or two of olive oil 
round the stopple, close to the mouth of the bottle 
or decanter, which must be then placed before the 
fire, at the distance of a foot or eighteen inches ; in 
which position the heat will cause the oil to spread 
downward between the stopple and the neck. Whea 
the bottle or decanter has grown warm, gently strike 
the stopple on one side, and on the other with any 
light wooden instrument ; then try it with the hand. 
If ii will not yet move, place it again before the 
iire, adding, if you choose, another drop of oil. After 
a while strike again as before : and by persevering 
in this process, however tightly the stopple may be, 
fastened in, you will at Tength succeed, in loosening 

269. Another Method. 

Rub the neck of the bottle up and down with a 
small key, hitting the head of the stopper every 
time, which will in general loosen it. 

270. Improved Corks for preserving Win& or Cht" 

mical Liquors, 
Melt together two parts of white wax and one 
part of beef suet •, dip your corks in this mixture, 
and immediately dry them in a stove upon an iron 
plate ; repeat this operation twice, and the corks 
thus prepared will preserve any liquor well without 
imparting any ill flavour thereto.. 

571. To judge of the Quality of Wheat Flour. 
^ As the state of wheat is ascertained by the quau- 
titj and quality of the glutinous matter it contaiilS^ 



DOMESTIC ECOXOMT. 1G3 

the fbllovving method is made use of for extracting 
that matter from it : 

Take four ounces of'the flour of wheat, separate 
ed from. the bran.: let it be mixed with water so as 
to form a thick, paste, which must be thoroughly, 
kneaded for a quarter of an hour. The paste is aft- 
erwards to be well washed, continually kneading it 
with the hands under the water, and charrging the 
water from time to time. This washing and knead- 
ing are to be continued until the water no longer 
becomes white by the operation ; the glutinous 
matter, which is of a whitish grey colour, then re- 
mains in the hands. If the wheat was sound the 
matter is glutinous and elastic, if the wheat was 
heated the matter will be brittle, if the wheat was ia 
a state of. fermentation no glutinous matter will be> 
obtained from it, 

272. To disvover zohether Flour he adulterated with 

Whitening or Chalk, 

Mix with the flour some juice of lemon or good 
vinegar; if the flour be pure they will remain to- 
gether at rest, but if there, be, a mixture of whitening- 
or chalk, a fermentation, or working like yeast, 
will ensue. The adulterated m^al is whiter and hea- 
vier than the good. The quantity that an ordinary: 
tea-cup will contain has been found to weigh more 
than the quantity of genuirie flour by four drachms 
and nineteen grains troy. 

273. Another, 

Pour boiling water on some slices of bread, and 
then drop in some spirit of vitriol. This w ill pro- 
duce a violent hissing and ebullition, if there be any. 
©f the above ingredients. For quicker dispatch, the. 
vitriol may be poured on the bread itself. Vinegar, 
and juice of lemons will have the same effect, but 
in a slighter degree. 



104 DOMESTIC ECOjrOMY. 

274. To discover if Bread is adulterated zvith Alum^ 
Make a solution of lime in aquafortis, and put a 

Tittre of this solution into water, in which you have 
steeped the bread suspected to contain alum. If 
such should Ije the case, the acid, which was comr 
bined with the alum, will form a precipitate of chalky- 
concretion at the bottom of the vessel.. 

275. To preserve Biscuit from Putrefaction, 

To preserve biscuit a long time sweet and good, 
no other art is necessary than stowing it well baked 
in casks exactly caulked, and carefully lined with, 
tin, so as to exclude the air; at the same time the 
biscuit must be so placed as to leave as little vacant- 
room as possible in the cask; and when the same is 
opened through necessity, it must be speedily clos- 
ed again with great care. 

376. To preserve Sea-Bread from the Weevil, 

The fatal effects of the weevil in sea-bread have 
long been severely felt by seamen employed on long, 
voj^ages ; rewards have been humanely offered by 
the legislature for a cure or preventive, but hitherto 
without success. 

The following fact was discovered by aecidentj, 
and is now offered to the public as a hint worthy 
the attention of those who may be employed in sup» 
plying ships with provisions, or to captains, and the 
owners of vessels, and may, in all probability, les- 
sen, if not wholly remove, an inconvenience so ia- 
jurious to our valuable navigation. A bag belonging 
to a powder-mill fell into a quantity of liquid nitre ; 
it was immediately taken out, plunged into cold wa- 
ter, and hung to dry ^ several day& after this cir- 
cumstance the bag was filled with sea-biscuits, and 
sent on board a West Indiaman, where it was stow- 
ed away among the captain's stock. The vessel 
was nine months outof England before she proceeds 



OO^tESTIC ECOXO.MV. 1 G5. 

eil on her passage home, when she got becalinecr, 
and remained so Ions: in thai situation that lier crow 
was forced to be put on halt' allowance, more partic- 
ularly so, as their bread was much deslroNcd by 
the weevils, and was hourly consuming.. The cap- 
tain at this time wishing to make use of the bag a- 
bove-nientioned, which had not been opened since 
the ship left England, ordered it to be examined, 
when, greatly to his surprise, the whol-e coiUent:> 
were found to be perfectly sound, without any ap-- 
pca ranee of having been injured by any insect what- 
f'vcr ; a circumstance solely to be attributed to ths 
quality of the bag. 

f277. To make Artificial Qr Poiatoe Bread, 

Put a pound of potatoes in a net, into a skillet 
with cold water, and (lest the skin break, and let in 
the water) hang it at a distance (so as not to boil) 
over the fire till they become soft ; then skin, mash, 
and rub them so as to be well mixed with a pound o^ 
flour, a very large spoonful of salt, and two large 
spoofifuls of yeast; but less of the yeast is better. 
Then add a little warm water, and knead it up as 
other dough ; lay It a little while before the fire to 
ferment or rise, then bake it in a very hot oven. 
Bread made in this manner has been frequently tri- 
ed, and found to be well-tasted, wholesome, and of 
good contistence. 

278. Bread made from the Water Gladiole, 

The root of the ftovv^ering rush, or water gladiole, 
when dried and ground, makes a bread but little in- 
ferior in .colour, nutriment, or taste, to that made 
from wheaten flour. It is the common food of the 
Calmucs, and, in deficient harvests, is used in inan^ 
gf the northern parts of the continent. 



166 DOMESTIC ECOMOMY. ^^^HI^Hj 

r279. Ferment for Bread, used by the Inhabitants of 
Long Island in the State of Kezo" York, 

Take as many hops- as may be held between the 
thumb and three fingers ; put them into a pint and 
ahalf or a quart of water, and boil them weH toge- 
ther. If you have some apples, or a pumpkin, in the 
house, cut a few slices of either of these,, and throw 
in, and it will be all the better. Then pour the li- 
quor off, or strain it through a coarse cloth, and add- 
three or four spoonfuls of molasses, and stir in as. 
much flour as will mingle with it to the consistence 
of thin batter. Set the whole in the corner of the- 
kitchen fire-place, or in any temperature of mode- 
rate warmth^ until a fermentation takes place, which 
will happen in a few hours, and then mix it with, 
flour. 

This will be sufficient for one baking, for a fami- 
ly of eight or ten persons. 

230. JVero Method of making Flour without Grain, 

Take turnips, potatoes, parsnips and white beet > 
grind or grate them fine ; then put the substance in- 
to water, and let it remain therein several houi's ; 
then strain off the water, and add fresh water in 
quantity suiHcient to cover the substance. Continue 
to repeat this process until the water pours off quite 
clear. Then strain and press the water from the ve- 
getable substance, which is to be dried on a kiln, or 
other proper convenience. When the substance is 
quite dry, grind it in a corn or other proper mill,, 
until it becomes fine flour. Either of the above ve- 
getables alone, or any two or more of them mixed 
together, and prepared as before specified, will iin- 
swer for the purpose. The foregoing description is 
for the making coarse or common flour ; when the 
best or fine flour is to be made, pare or peel the rind 
off the vegetables before they are ground oi? grati^d. 



IJOMESTIC ECONOMY. 167 

Then pursue the same process as with the coarse or 
common flour. 

281. Improved Method of salting Butter and Meat, 

Best common salt two parts, saUpctre one part, 
sugar one part ; beat them up together, so that ihey 
may be completely blended. To every sixteen oun- 
-ces of butter add one ounce of the composition ; mix 
it well in the mass, and close it up for use. — It 
should not be used for a month, that it may be tho- 
I'oughly incorporated. Butter, thus cured, has been 
kept for three years perfectly sweet. Keep the air 
from it, or it spoils. Cover it with an oiled paper, 
^nd a board on that. 

To cure meat, add one ounce of the above com- 
position to every sixteen ounces of meat. It must be 
Dery well rubbed into the meat. You cannot have it 
too finely powdered, nor too well rubbed into the 
meat. 

282. Method of curing had Tub Butter, 

A quantity of tub butter was brought to market 
in the West Indies, which, on opening, was found 
to be very bad, and almost stinking. A native of 
Pennsylvania undertook to cure it, which he did, in 
the following maner : — 

He started the tubs of butter in a large quantity 
of hot water, which soon melted the butter : he then 
skimmed it off as clean as possible, and worked it 
over again in a churn, and with the addition of salt 
and fine sugar, the butter was sweet and good, 

283. Method for taking the Ranhiess and disagree* 

able Taste from Irish Salt Butter, 

The quantity proposed to be made use of, either 
for toasts or melting, must be put into a bowl filled 
with boiling water, and when the butter is melted, 
skim it quite ofi"; by this method it is so separated 
€i'om any gross particles, that it may require a small 



^6^ DOMESTIC ECONOMY, 

addition of salt, which may be .put Into the cold wa- 
ter that is made use of in melting butter for sauce ^ 
and though the butter is oiled by hot water, it be- 
comes a line cream in the boiling for sauce. 

284. To remove the Taste of Turnips from Milk or 

Butter^ 

The taste of the turnip is easily tak^n off milk and 
butter, by dissolving a little nitre in spring water, 
which being kept in a bottle, and a small tea-cup- 
ful put into eight gallons of milk, when warm from 
the cowj entirely removes any taste or flavour of the 
turnip. 

2S5 To make Salt Gutter fresh. 

Put four pounds of salt butter into a churn, with 
Tour quarts of new milk, and a small portion of ar- 
liolto. Churn theni together, and, in about an hour, 
take' out the butter, and treat it exactly as fresh but- 
ter, by washing it in water, and adding the custom- 
ary quantity of salt. 

This is a singular experiment. The butter gains 
^bout three ounces in each pound, and is in every 
particular equal to fresh butter. It would be greatly 
improved by the addition of two or three ounces of 
fine sugar, in powder. A common earthen churn 
answers the same purpose as a wooden one, and 
may be purcha-sed at any pot shop. 

286. Chickweed, 

The young shoots and leaves, when boiled, can 
scarcely be distinguished from spring spinage, and 
are equally wholesome. 

287. To prevent Children from eating their Food toe 

quickly. 

Children, when very young, get into the habit of 
•eating their food too quickly, particularly fruit, and 
other subtances of which they are fond. To prevcut 



BOxMEStiC ECONOMY* 160 

tlicir acquiring this habit, amusing devices might 
be employed, as cutting an apple, a pear, a piece 
of cake, or any other article of the same sort, into a 
number of pieces, arranging them in lines like an 
army, with one as an officer in the centre, and tel- 
ling them that the whole army must be devoured, 
piece by piece^ and in a regular manner ! This inte- 
rests little children so much, that they soon prefer 
it to a more speedy mode of consumption. 

288. To prevent the Formation of Crust upon the In- 

side of Tca-Ktttles, 

Put into the tea-kettle a flat oyster shell, and keep 
it constantly there, it will attract the stony particles 
that are in the water, to itself, and prevent their 
forming upon the tea-kettle. 

Or, as the shell occasions a disagreeable noise, 
regularly clean the inside of the kettle. No crust 
forms on common saucepans which are cleaned 
whenever they are used. 

289. To make Chocolate from Cocoa Kuls, 

Chocolate is made of the small cocoa bean sepa- 
rated from its shells, which being first coarsely 
pounded in a stone mortar, is afterwards levigated 
on a slab of the finest grained marble ; to this a small 
quantity of vaniUa is added. The mixture is heat- 
ed, and |)ut into tin moulds of the size in which the 
cakes appear. 

290. Coffee. 

The infusion or decoction of the roasted seeds of 
the coffee-berry, when not too strong, is a whole- 
some, exhilarating, and strengthening beverage; and 
when mixed with a large proportion of milk, is a 
proper article of diet for literary and sedentary 
people. It is especially suited to persons advanced 
in years. People who are bilious and liable to cos- 
tiveness should abstain from it. When drank very 



ITO IJUMESTIC ECONOMY. 

Strong, it proves Stimulating and heating in a consiil- 
erable degree, creating thirst and producing watch- 
fulness. By an abusive indulgence in this drink, the 
organs of -digestion are impaired, the appetite is 
destroyed, nutrition is impeded, and emaciation, ge- 
neral debility, paralytic affections, and nervous iig- 
ver, are brought on. 

291. The Virtues of Coffee. 

Coffee accelerates digestion, corrects crudities, 
removes cholic and flatulencies. It mitigates head- 
aches, cherishes the animal spirits, takes av/ay list- 
lessness and languor, and is serviceable in all ob- 
structions arising from languid circulation. It is a 
wonderful restorative to emaciated constitutions, 
andhighly refreshing to the studious and sedentary. 
* The habitual use of coffee would greatly promote 
sobriety, being in itself a cordial stimulant ; it is a 
most powerful antidote to the temptation of spiritu- 
ous liquors. 

It will be found a welcome beverage to the ro- 
bust labourer, who would despise a lighter drink, 

292. Turkish or jlrabian Mode of preparing Coffee, 

The coffee ground or beaten to an impalpable 
powder is preserved, by closely pressing it down in 
a wooden box ; and the quantity required for use is 
scraped from the surface by means of a wooden 
spoon. Two small coffee-pots are employed ; in one 
is boiled the water, generally mixed with the re- 
maining coffee of a former meal ; in the other is put 
the fresh powder, v/hich is sometimes placed neai- 
the fire, to become heated before the boiling water 
is added to it. The mixture is then boiled two or 
three times, taking care to pour a few drops of cold 
■water upon it the last time, or to place a cloth dip- 
ped in cold watei" over it; then it is allowed to sub- 
side, and afterwards poured into the coffee-pot which 
contained anly the boiling water* 



DOMESTIC ECOXOMY. 171 

is. B. The quantity of coffee powder necessary 
Lo make a lino strong tincture of coffee may be esti- 
mated as one coftee-cnp of coffee powder, to threo 
dishes of proper coffee-liquor for the table, 

2.93. Cheap and valuable Substitute for Coffee, 

The flour of rye, and Eri2;iish yellow potatoes, aro 
found an excellent substitute ^o': coffee. These in- 
gredients are first boiled, then made into a cake, 
which is to be 6't\ei\ in aij o-/cn, and afterwards re- 
duced to a powder, whicii will Ln::kG a ^average ve- 
ry similar to coffee in its taste, as welfas in other 
properties, and not in the lea^t detrimental to health. 

294. Excellent Suhslitutc for Coffee, 

The seeds of the flower de Va^iQ, or common yel- 
low water i!ag, being roasted in the same manne^as 
coffee, very much resemble it in colour and flavour, 
but have something more of a saccharine odour, 
approaching to that of extract of liquorice. When 
carefully prepared they possess much more of tho 
aroma of coffee than is to be found in any of the le- 
guminous and gramineous seeds that have been 
treated in the same manner. Coffee made of these 
seeds is extremely wholesome and nutricious^ in the 
proportion of half an ounce, or an ounce, to a pin^ 
of boiling water, - 

295. Another. 

The seeds of foreign grapes have lately been di.^- 
covered to be an excellent substitute for coffee. 
When pressed, they first produce a quantity of oil, 
and afterwards, when roasted and boiled, furnish a 
liquid much resembling that produced from coffee. 
The practice is rapidly becoming general in Ger- 
many. 

296. Acorn Coffee. 

Take sound and ripe acorns, peel ofTthe shell or 




172 DOMESTIC ECONOlir. 

iiusk, divide the kernels, dry them gradual ij'-, and 
then roast them in a close vessel or roaster, keeping 
them continually stirring; in doing which special 
care must be taken that they be not burnt- or roast* 
ed too much, both which would be hurtful. 

Take of these roasted acorns (ground like other 
coffee) half an ounce every other morning and even- 
ing, alone mixed with a drachm of other coffee, and 
sweetened, with sugar, with or without milk. 

This receipt is recommended by a famous Ger- 
man physician, as a much esteemed, wholesome, 
nourishing, strengthening nutriment for mankind : 
which, by its medicinal qualities, has been found 
to cure the slimy obstructions in the viscera, and to 
remove nervous complaints when other medicines 
have failed* 

J?e7?;^anL— -Since die duty was taken off, West In- 
dia coffee'is so cheap that substitutes are notwortli 
making. On the continent the roasted roots of the 
wild chicory, a common weed have been used with 
advantage. 

397. For improving Cojftt, 

To valetudinarians and others, the following me- 
thod of making coffee for breakfast is earnestly re- 
commended as a most wholesome and pleasant jen- 
tacular beverage, first ordered by an able j>hysician. 

Let one ounce of fresh ground coffee be put into, 
a clean coffee-pot, or other proper vessel well tin- 
ned : pour a pint and a quarter of boiling water 
upon it,, set it on, the fire, let it boil thoroughly, and 
afterwards put by to. settle ; this should be done on 
the preceding night, and on the following morning 
pour off the clear liquor; add to it one pint of new 
milk; set it again over the fire, but do not let it 
boil. Sweetened to every person's taste, coffee thus 
made is a most wholesome and agreeable break- 
fast, suiAmel' or winter, with toast, bread and but- 



DOMESTIC ECONOMVi 173 

ter, rusks, biscuits, <Sic. This process takes off that 
raw, acidous, and astringent quality of the coffee,' 
wliich makes it often disagree with weak stomachs. 
It should not be drank too warm. 

A gentleman of the first fortune in the kingdom, 
after a variety of medical applications in vain, was 
restored to health by applying to the above bever- 
age morning and afternoon. 

An improved Method of making the Coffee Bevcr" 
(Tge, — To an ounce of coHce add a common tea- 
spoonful of the best flour of mustard seed, previous 
to the boiling. To those unacquainted with the me- 
thod, it is inconceivable how much it improves the 
tragrancy, fineness, transparency, and gratefully 
* juick flavour of the beverage, and probably too ife.. 
adds to its wholcsomeness. 

298. To preserve Eggs for a Length of Time, 

Put an egg for one minute in water just about to^ 
boil, (it will not in that time be too hard) and it will 
afterwards keep well for a month. Steep one a little 
while in sweet oil, and it will keep for half a year. 

299. Best jMethod of cleaning fine Block-tin Dish 

CoverSy Patent Pezotcr, c^c. 

"Where the polish is gone oft*, let the articles be 
first rubbed over the outside with a little sweet oil, 
on a piece of soft linen cloth ; then clear it ofl' with 
dry pure whitening, quite free from sand, on linen 
cloths, which will make them look as well as when 
new. The insidcs should be rubbed with rags moist- 
ened in wet v/hitening, but without a drop of oiL 
Always wiping these articles dry, when brought 
from table, and keeping them free from steam or^ 
other damp, greatly facilitates the trouble of clean- 
ing them. 

300. Cleaning Floor Cloths. 

After sweeping and cleaning the floor cloths with 



174 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

a broom and damp flannel, in the usual manner, wet 
them over with milk, and rub them till beautifully 
bright, with a dry cloth. They will thus look as 
well as if they were rubbed first with a waxed flan- 
nel, and afterward with a dry one ; without being so 
slippery, or so soon clogging with dust or dirt. 

301. To clean Gold and Silver Lace. 

Sew the lace in linen cloth^and boil it in a pint 
of water, and two ounces of soap ; and then wash 
the lace in water.^ 

302. To restore the Lustre of Glasses tarnished b^ 

Age or Jiccident, 

Strew on them powdered fuller's-earth, carefully 
cleared from sand, &;c. and rub them carefully 
with a linen cloth. Oxide of tin (putty) would per- 
haps be better. 

303. To clean Flint Glass Bottles, Decanters, ^rc. 

Roll up, in small pieces, some whited-bi*own or 
blotting-paper; then wet and sorp the same; put 
them into the vessel, with a little luke-warm water ; 
shake them well for a few minutes ; then rinse the 
glass with clean water, and it will be as bright and 
clear as when new from the shops. 

304. To clean Mahogany Furniture, 

Three pennyworth of alkanet root, one pint of 
cold drawn linseed oil, two pennyworth of rose pink; 
put these into a pan, and let them stand all night : 
then take some of this mixture, rub it over the tables 
or chairs, and let it remain one hour ; then take a li- 
nen cloth and rub it well off, and it will leave a beau^ 
tiful gloss on the furniture. 

If the pinky shade occasioned by the alkanet root 
and pink is disagreeable, they may be omitted in 
part or entirely. 



DOMESTIC £CONOMY% 175 

305. To clean Turkey Carpets. 

To revive the colour of a Turkey carpet, beat it 
weir with a stick tillthe dust is all got out; then, 
with a lemon or sorrel juice, take out the spots of 
ink, if the carpet be staineei with any ; wash it in 
cold water, and afterwards shake out all the water 
from the threads of the carpet. When it is thorough- 
ly dry, rub it all over with the crumb of a hot wheat- 
en loaf; and, if the weather is very fme, hang it out 
in the open air a night or two. 

506. T<? clean Marble. 

Take a bullock's gall, a gill of soap lees, half a 
gill of turpentine, and make it into a paste with pipe 
clay ; then apply it to the marble, and let it dry a 
day or two ; then rub it off,- and, if not clean, ap- 
ply it a second or third time until it is clean. 

307. Another. 

Muriatic acid, either diluted or pure, as occasion 
may require, prove efficacious. If too strong it will 
deprive the marble of its polish, which may be ea- 
sily restored b}^ the use of a piece of felt, with some 
powder of putty or tripoli, with either making use 
of water, 

308. To clean Alabaster or Marble, 

Beat pumice stones to an impalpable powder, and 
mix it up with verjuice ; let it stand for two hours, 
then dip it into a sponge, and rub the marble or ala- 
baster, wash it with a linen cloth and fresh water, 
and dry it with clean linen rags. 

309. Mixture for cleaning Stone Stairs, Hall Pave- 

ments, ^c. 

Boil together half a pint each of size and stone 
blue water, with two table-spoonfuls of whiting, and 
two cakes of pipemaker's clay, in about two quarts 
of water. Wash the stones over with a flannel slight- 



t76 DOMESTIC ECQNOItiy. 

]y wetted in this mixture ; and, when dry, rub them 
with flannel and a brush. Some persons recommend 
beer, but water is much better for the purpose. 

310. TJiG Danger of Children eating gilt Giyiger- 
bread, or any Article covered zuith such a CompO' 
sition» 

There are frequently sold eatable things, as ima- 
ges of sugar, Si£, having on them what people ima- 
gine to be gold leaf, but which is, in reality, leaves 
of copper, beat out in imitation of it, which is so 
dangerous a poison as to demand the interference 
of government, to prevent the sale of such articles ; 
irreparable mischief having l>een occasioned with- 
out suspicion of the cause. 

311. Varnish for Furniture, 

To one part.of virgin's white wax add eight parts 
of oil of petroleum ; lay a slight coat of this mixture 
on the wood with a badger's brush, while a little 
warm ; the oil will then evaporate,. and leave a thin 
coat of wax, which should afterwards be polished 
with a coarse woolen cloth, 

312. Gennan Furniture Gloss, or Polishing Wax for 

Mahogany, ^c. 

Cut in^ small pieces a quarter of a pound of yeli- 
low wax.; and, melting it in a pipkin, add an ounce 
of well pounded colophony, or black resin. The 
wax and colophony being both melted, pour in, by. 
degrees, quite warm, two ounces of oil or spirit of- 
turpentine. When the whole is thoroughly mixed, 
pour it into a tin or earthen pot, and keep it cover- 
ed for use. The method of applying it to the furni- 
ture,, which must be first well dusted and cleaned, is 
by spi'eading a little of this composition on a piece 
of woolen cloth, and well rubbing the wool with it; 
and, in a few days, the gloss will be as iirm and fast 
as varnish* 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 177 

313. Method cf cleaning and polishing Rusii^ Steele 

x\fter well oiling the rusty parts of the steel, let it 
remain two or three days in that state; then wipe 
it dry with clean rags, and polish with emery or 
pumice-stone, on hard wood. Frequently, however, 
a little unslacked lime, finely powdered, will be suf- 
ficient after the oil is cleaned off. Where a very high 
degree of polish is requisite, it will be most etfectu- 
ally obtained by using a paste composed of finely 
levigated blood-stone and spirits of wine. Bright 
bars, however, are admirably cleaned, in a few mi- 
nutes, by using a small portion of fine corned eme- 
ry, and afterwards finishing with flour of emery or 
rotten-stone ; all of which may be had at any iron- 
monger's. This last very simple method will, per- 
liaps, render any other superfluous. 

214. Easy Method of cleaning Paper Hangings, 

Cut into eight half quarters, a quartern loaf two 
days old ; it must neither be newer nor staler. With- 
one of these pieces, after having blown off all the 
dust from the paper to be cleaned by means of a 
good pair of bellows, begin at the top of the room ; 
holding the crust in the hand, and wiping lightly 
downward with the crumb, about half a yard at each 
stroke, till the upper part of the hangings is com- 
pletely cleaned all round. Then go again round, 
with the like sweeping stroke downward, always 
commencing each successive course a little higher 
llian the upper stroke had extended, till the bottom 
be finished. This operation, if carefully performed, 
will frequently make very old })aper look almost 
equal to new. Great caution must be used not by 
any means to rub the paper hard, nor to attempt 
cleaning it the cross or horizontal way. The dirty 
part of the breadj too, must be each time cutaway, 
and the pieces renewed as soon as at all necessary. 



178 DOIuESTIC ECONOMYo- 

315, To preserve Metals from Rust, 
Anoint them with spermaceti oil, 

3 1 6. For clemilng Sled or Ironr-polished Stoves, 

Stoves may be admivably eleancd in a few min- 
utes, by using a small portion of fine conned emery- 
stone 5 and afterwards finishing with Hour of emer-y 
or rotten-stone, either of which may be obtained at. 
any ironmongers* 

J 17. To clean Iron from Rust, 

Pound some gliiss to fine powder; and Having; 
nailed some strong linen or woollen cloth upon a- 
board, lay upon it a strong coat of gum-water, and 
sift thereon some of your powdered glass, and let it 
dry; repeat this operation three times, and when 
the last covering of powdered glass is dry, you may 
easily rub off the rust from iron utensils, with the 
cloth thus prepared. 

318. I-Io20 to judge the Properties ofj^utmegs. 

The largest, heaviest, and most unctuous of nut- 
megs are to be chosen, such a& are the shape of an 
olive, and of the most fragrant smell. 

319. To take the Smell of Paint from Rooms, 

Let three or four broad tubs, each containing a- 
bout eight gallons of water, and one ounce of vitri- 
olic acid, be placed in the new painted room, near 
the wainscot ; this water will absorb and retain the 
elUuvia from the paint in three days, but the water 
should be renewed each day during that time. 

320. Method of making Silton Cheese, 

Take the night's cream, and put it to the morn- 
ing's new milk, with the rennet ; when the curd is 
Gome, it is not to be broken,, as- is done with other 
cheeses, but take it out with a soil dish altogether, 
and place it on a sieve to drain gradually, and, a-^. 



'Hi 



Do:\n:sTic ecoxomy. 179 

jt uraiuo; keep 5;TacluaIIy pressing it till it "becomes 
l^irm and dry; tiion {>lace it in a wooden hoop; aft- 
erwards to be ke]U dry on boards, turned frequent- 
ly, with cloth-binders xound it, which are to be tight- 
ened as occasion requires. 

In some dairies the cheeses, after being taken 
ont of the wooden hoop, are bound tight round 
witli a cloth, which cloth is changed every day un- 
til the cheese becomes firm enough to support itself; 
after the cloth is taken away, they are rubbed eve- 
ry day all over, for two or three months, with a 
brush ; and if the weather is damp or moist, twice 
a day : and even before the cloth is taken off, the 
top and bottom are well rubbed every day. 

N. B. The dairy-maid must not be disheartened 
if she does not perfectly succeed in her first altempt. 

321. Colouring for Cheese-, 

The colouring for cheese is, or at least should be, 
Spanish annotto; but, as soon as colouring became 
general in this country, a colour of an adulterated 
kind was exposed for sale in almost every shop : 
the weight of a guinea and a half of real Spanish an- 
notto is sufficient for a cheese of fifty pounds weight. 
If a considerable part of the cream of the night's 
milk be taken for butter, more colouring will be re> 
quisilc. The loaner the cheese is the more colour- 
ing it lequircs. The manner of using annotto, is to 
tie up, in a linen rag, the quantity deemed sufficient, 
and put it into half a pint of warm water over night. 
This infusion is put into the tub of milk, in the 
morning, with the rennet infusion ; dipping the rag 
into the milk, and rubbing it against the palm of 
the hand as long as any colour runs out. 

322. To fatten Poultry, 

Pouluy should be fattened in coops, and kept 
(^ry clean. They should be furnished with graveh 



;180 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

hui with no water. Their only food, barley-meal-, 
mixed so thin w^ith water as to serve them for drink. 
Their thirst makes them eat more than they would, 
in order to extract the water that is among the food. 
This should not be put in troughs, but laid upon a 
%oard, which should be clean washed every time 
fresh food is laid upon it. It is foul and heated wa- 
-ter which is the sole cause of the pip. 

323. A new Method of rearing Poultry to Advan- 
tage ; communicated hy Mrs, D^Oyley to ike Soclt- 
ty of Arts ^ t^^c. 

" I keep a large stock of poultry, which are Te- 
gnlarly fed in a morning upon steamed potatoes 
chopped small, and at noon they have barley ; they 
are in high oondilion, tractable, and lay a very 
great quantity of eggs. In the poultry yard is a 
small building, similar to a pio;eon cote, for th^ 
hens to lay in, witli frames covered with net to slide 
l^efore each nest ; the house is dry, light, and weH 
ventilated, kept free from dirtj by having the nests 
and walls white-washed two or three times a year, 
and the floor covered once a week with fresh ashes 5 
when I wish to procure chickens, I take the oppor- 
tunity of setting many hens together, confining each 
to her respective nest ; a boy attends morning and 
evening to let any off that appear restless, and to 
see that they return to their proper places; when 
they hatch, the chickens are taken away, and a 
second lot of eggs allowed them to set again, by 
which means they produce as numerous a brood as 
before ; I put the chickens into long wicker cages, 
placed against a hot wall, at the back of the kitch^ 
en tire, and within them are artificial mothers for 
the chickens to ran under; they are made of boards 
about ten inches broad, and fifteen inches long, sup- 
sported by two feet in the front, four inches in height, 
^nd by a board at the back two inches in height. 



DOMEStiC ECONOMY^ 181 

The rool and back are lined with lamb^'s-skins dress- 
•ed with the wool upon them. The roof is thickly 
l^erforated with holes for the heated air to escape ; 
they are formed without bottoms, and have a flan- 
nel curtain in front, and at the ends, for the chick- 
ens to run under, which they do apparently by in- 
stinct. The cages arc kept perfectly dry and 
clean with sand or moss. The above is a proper 
size for fifty or sixty new hatched chickens, but as 
they increase in size they of course require a larger 
mother. When they are a week old, and the weath- 
er fine, the boy carries them, and their artificial 
mother, to the grass-plot, nourishes and keeps 
them warm, by placing a l/ong narrow tin vessel, 
filled with hot water, at the back of the artificial 
mother, which will retain its heat for three hours, 
and is then renewed fresh from the steamer. In 
the evening they are driven into their cages, and 
resume their station at the hot wall, till they are 
nearly three weeks old, and able to go into a small 
room, appropriated to that purpose. The room is 
furnished with frames similar to the artificial moth- 
ers, placed round the floor, and with perches con- 
veniently arranged for them to roost upon. 

^^ When I first attempted to bring up poultry in 
the above way, 1 lost immense numbers by too 
great heat and suflbcation, owing to the roofs of the 
mothers not being sulficiendy ventilated ; and when 
that evil was remedied I had another serious one to 
encounter ; 1 found chickens brought up in this way 
did not thrive upon the food J gave them, and many 
of them died, till 1 thought of getting coarse barley- 
meal, and steaming it till quite soft ; the boy i'ecds 
them with this and minced [)otatoes alternately ; he 
is also employed rolling cp pellets of dough, made 
of coarse wheat flour, which he throws to the chick- 
•ens to excite them to enf, thereby causing iheui to 
grow surprisitjgly. liens kept as mine arc, and 

Q 



1G2 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

having the same conveniences, will readily set four 
times in a season, and by setting twice each time, 
they would produce, at the lowest calculation, eigh- 
ty chickens each, which would soon make them very 
plentifuL" 

324. Method of expeditiously fattening Chickens, 

Take, for that purpose, a quantity of rice, and 
grind or pound it into a fine flour ; mix sufficient 
for present use with milk and a little coarse sugar ; 
stir the whole well over the fire, till it makes a thick 
paste ; and feed the chickens, ;in the daytime only, 
by putting as much of it as they can eat, but no 
more, into the troughs belonging to their coops* 
It must be eaten while warm ; and, if they have also 
beer to drink, they will soon grow very fat. A 
mixture of oatmeal and treacle, combined till it 
crumbles, is said to form a food for chickens, of 
which they are so fond, and with which they thrive 
so rapidly, that at the end of. two months they be- 
come as large as the generality of full grown fowls 
fed in the common way. 

325. Szoedish Method of raising Turkies, 

As soon as the young turkies leave the shell, they 
are made to sv/allow one or two pepper-corns, and 
returned to their mother. They are afterwards fed 
with crumbs of bread and milk, and with common 
dock leaves, chopped small, and mixed with fresh 
butter-milk, and kept in a warm place or sun-shine, 
and guarded from the rain or from running among 
nettles. 

Nothing, however, is more useful for them than 

;lhe common garden pepper-cress, or cut-leaved 

•cress. They are very fond of it; and supplied 

with as much of it s(s they will eat, they will not be 

delicate in their other food. Perhaps cresses might 

ffee equally useful for young pheasantSj numbers of 



DOMESTIC ETCONOMY. 18-S 

which are reared by the poor cottagers in Bucking- 
hamshire, for the supply of London. At least the 
pheasant is a bird that haunts the woods, and lives 
on the same fare as the turkey in its wild state. 

Ant eira-s are the best food for them, whenever 
they can be procured. 

326. Method of fattening Geese and Ducks, 

Geese, the more qui<?t and undisturbed they are 
kept, the faster and better they fatten. 

I shall begin with what are usually called green 
geese : — Let these young geese be put in a place 
that is almost dark, and be (cq] with some ground 
malt mixed up with milk, and they will very soon, 
and at very little expense, be fit to kill ; the meth- 
od has often been tried, and the flesh has been found 
to eat very delicate. 

I sometimes fat them in a still cheaper way, e^pe^ 
cially when milk is scarce : I mix up some barley 
meal, pretty thick, with water, which they^ con- 
stantly havo by them, to eat as they chuse •, in an- 
Dther part of the shed, where they are kept in a pauj 
with some boiled oats, and water for them to resort 
lo when they are inclined to change their food. 
This variety is agreeable to them, and they thrive 
apace, being so fatted at less expense than in any 
other manner I know of. 

The manner in which 1 manage my Michaelmas 
or stubble geese, is not very ditierent from that a- 
bove described. Immediately after harvest I turn 
them on the wheat eddishes, where they pick up 
flesh apace : but when I take them up to fatten I 
Teed them with ground malt, mixed up with water, 
and give them with it boiled oats, boiled malt, or 
boiled barley, and sometimes, for change, even 
boiled wheat and water. Thus managed, they grow 
fatter and acquire a finer flavour than would at first 
be imagined, and greatly superior to those in the 
jjondon market?. 



184 DOMESTIC ECOXOMl, 

I fatten my clucks in the same manner, oniy at- 
iowing them a larger pan to dabble in, which an- 
swers extremely well. 

I keep a. very considerable number of ducks for 
breeders, having near my house the convenience 
of several ponds,, and I annually set in the spring a 
great number of duck eggs under hens; it is there- 
fore natural that I should chuse such a breed as will 
lay me a large store of eggs, and I have always 
found such as have their bills turn up rather more 
ihan ordinary to answer this purpose best. 

327. Rules for plucking Geese, 

Geese destined for breeding in farm-yards, and 
which are what are called old geese, may indeed 
he pluckod thrice a year without inconvenience, at 
an interval of seven wc^cka , but ^v/uij>^ V7nc;c,, bcftjre 
(hej are subjected to this operation, musC have at- 
!ained to the age ol' thirteen or fourteen weeks, and 
especially those soon destined for the table, be-- 
cause they would become meagre, z>d lose theii^ 
quality. 

328. To improve the Down of Geese, 

The nature of the food contributes very much Igk 
ihe value of the down, and to the strength of fcath- 
^^rs ; the particular care taken of geese has no less 
influence. It has been remarked, that in places 
where these birds ^im] a great deal of water, they 
are not so much subject to vermin, and furnish 
feathers of a better quality. 

329. To ascertain the Properties of Goose Down, 
inere is a sort of maturity, in regard to down, 

which may be easily discovered, as it then falls of 
itself; if removed too soon it will not keep, and is 
liable to be attacked by worms. Lean geese fur- 
nish more than those which are fat, and are also 
more esteemed. Farmers ought nqvec to §^uifer 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 185 

feathers to be pulled from geese some time after 
they are dead, for the purpose of being sold ; they 
generally smell bad, and become matted ; none but 
those plucked from living geese, or which have 
been just killed, ought to be introduced into com- 
merce. In the latter case the geese must be pluck- 
ed soon, and in such a manner that the operation 
may be terminated before they are entirely cold ; 
the feathers are then much better. 

330. To pi'event Iriconvenience from Perspiration of 

the Hands, 

Ladies who work lace or embroidery sometimes 
suffer inconvenience from the perspiration on their 
hands ; which may be remedied, by rubbing the ■ 
hands frequendy with a little dry wheaten bran. 

331. To purify Lemon Juice, 

Add one ounce of pulverised, well burnt char- 
coal, to a quart of lemon juice ; after standing 
twelve hours, filter the juice through white blotting 
paper ; it will keep good several years in a cellar, 
in a bottle well corked ; a thick crust will form 
beneath the cork, and the mucilage will fall to the 
bottom. - 

332. Every Family to make their own Sweet OiL 

It is reported, a person is going to take out a pa- 
tent for making a small hand-mill, for every family 
to make their own sweet oik This may easily bo 
done, by grinding or Ideating the seeds of white pop- 
pies into a paste, then boil it in water, and skim off 
the oil as it rises ; one bushel of seed weighs fifty 
pounds, and produces two gallons of oil. Of the 
sweet olive oil sold, one half is oil of poppies. The 
poppies will grov/ in any garden : it is the large- 
head white poppy, sold by apothecaries. Large 
fields are sown with poppies in Frarice and Flan- 
ders, for the purpose of expressing oil from theic 

Q 2 



186 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

seed for food. Vide 10th and 11th vols, of Batl*- 
Society Papers, where a premium of twelve guin- 
eas is offered for the greatest number of acres sovvri- 
in 1808 and 1809. When the seed is taken out, 
the poppy head when dried is boiled to an extract, 
which is sold at two shillings per ounte, and is to 
be preferred to opium, which now sells very high. 
Large fortunes maybe acquired by the cultivation 
of poppies. Some acres of it are now sown near 
•Cambridge, and of late years also at Enfield, in 
Middlesex. 

White poppies are, however, a very precarious 
crop in the climate of Britain ; except, perhaps, in. 
Devon, and the more southerly districts. 

333. To take Mildeio out of Linen, 

Take soap, and rub it well : then scrape some 
fine chalk, and rub that also in the linen.; lay it on 
the grass ; as it dries, wet it a little, and it will come 
out at twice doing. 

334. To make Verjuice » 

The acid of the juice of the crab or wilding is 
called by the country people verjuice, and is much 
used in recent sprains, and in other cases, as an 
astringent or repellent. With a proper addition of 
sugar, it is^^ probable that a very grateful liquor might- 
be made of this juice, but little-inferior to old hock.. 

335. Method of Making Vinegar. 

To every gallon of water put a pound of coarse 
Lisbon sugar ; let the mixture be boiled, and skim- 
med so long as any scum arises. Then let it be 
poured into proper vessels ; and when it is as cool 
as beer when worked, let a warm toast, rubbed 
over with yeast, be put t,o it. Let it work about 
£wenty-four hours, and then put it into an iron-hoop- 
ed cask, and fixed either near a constant fire, or 
where the siunmersun gbines the greater part of the 






DaMESTlC ECONOMY. 187 

day ; in this sitwation it should not be closely stop- 
ped up, but a tile, or something similar, laid on the 
bung-hole, to keep out the dust and insects. At 
the end of^about three months (sometimes less) it 
will be clear, and fit for use, and may be bottled 
oft'. The longer it is kept after it is bottled the bet- 
ter it will be. If the vessel containing the liquor 
is to be exposed to the sun's heat, the best time tO; 
begin making it is^ in April. 

336. To inake Vinegar with the Refuse of Beehives, 
after the Honey Is extracted. 

When honey is extracted from the combs by 
means of pressure, tak« the whole mass, break and 
separate it, and into each tub or vessel put one part' 
of combs and two of water : place them in the sun, 
if his rays possess a sufficient power, or in a warm 
place, and cover them with cloths. Fermentation 
takes place in a few days, and continues from eight 
to twelve days, according to the higher or lower 
temperature of the situation in which the operation 
is performed. During the fermentation, stir the 
matter from time to time, and press it down with 
the hands, that it may be perfectly soaked.. When 
the fermentation is over, put the matter to drain 
upon sieves or strainers. At the bottom of the ves- 
sels will, be found a yellow liquor, which must be 
thrown away, because it would soon contract a 
disagreeable smell, which it would communicate to 
the vinegar. Then wash the tubs, put into them 
the water separated from th€ other matter ; it im- 
mediately begins to turn sour: when the tubs must 
be again covered with cloths, and kept moderately 
"warm. A pellicle or skin is formed on their sur- 
face, beneath which the vinegar acquires strength ; 
in a month's time it begins to be sharp ; it must be 
left standing a little longer, and then put into a cask^ 
of which the bung-hole is left open, and it may 
then be used like any oilier vinegar. 






188 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

337. To strengthen Vinegar, 

Suffer it to be repeatedly frozen, and separate 
the upper cake of ice or water from it. 

238. Balsamic and Anti-pidrid Vinegar. 

Acetic acid may be mixed with aromatics, as in 
Henry's thieves vinegar, in a quantity sufficient for 
a small smelling-bottle, at no great expense. But 
it is the acetic acid which is useful, and not the aro- 
matics, which are added for the pleasure of the per- 
fume. Acetous acid or common vinegar, with or 
without aromatics, has little or no anti-putrid qual- 
ity. 

339. Gooseberry Vinegar,-. 

Take the gooseberries, when full ripe, stamp 
them small ; to every quart put three .quarts of wa- 
ter, 'Stir them well together ; let it stand twenty-four 
hours, then strainit through, a canvas bag. 

To every gjillon of liquor add one pound of 
brown sugar, and stir them well together before you 
barrel your liquor. 

The old bright yellow English gooseberries are 
the best. , 

340. To make Primrose Vinegar. 

To fifteen quarts of water put six pounds of browo 
sugar ; let it boil ten minutes, and take off the 
scum : pour on it half a peck of primroses ; before 
it is quite cold put in a little fresh yeast, and let it 
work in a warm place all night ; put it in a barrel 
in the kitchen, and when done working, close the 
barrel, still keeping it in a warm place. . 

341. Method of rendering putrid Water sweet. 

In a course of experiments which a gendeman was 
making, he had occasion to mix clay with a large 
quantity of water in. a cistern. 



B03IESTIC ECOXOMY. I 5& 

AiLcr ihc water and clay hatl remained iliiis mix- 
J for some weeks, he tasted the water beibre it 
hould be thrown out, and found it sweet and well 
ilavourcd. On this he stirred Lheni, to find whether 
any putrid stench might arise from the bottom, but 
was agreeably surprised Lo find that the whole was 
equally sweet. 

He now resolved to keep it longer in order to de- 
termine what effect time might have on the mixiin-c, 
and, if my memory serves mc right, repeated the 
tastings and stirrings for several m.onths, with equal 
success, though some part of the time was summer^ 
during which he expected that the water would 
have become highly putrid. 

He communicated this discovery to- the Society 
for the Encouragement of Arts, &;c. it was referred 
to the Committee of Chemistry, with orders to 
make what experiments should seem to them requi* 
site to determine a point so necessary to the wel-. 
fare of nunibers, as many diseases are known to 
take their rise from putrid water. The whole was 
confirmed by the report of the committee. Here is 
then a very easy means whereby every cottager has 
it in his power constantly to. use siveet and whole- 
some water.. 

It is no more than mixing with water a quantity 
of common clay, suwicient to take off its transparen- 
cy, so far as that the hands, held just under the sur- 
face,^ shall not appear through it. 

JVo/e, — This experiment has since been tried by 
mixing clay with putrid water in a close salt-glazed 
earthen vessel. The water did not become sweet. 
The experiment must be made in a close vessel, for 
the effect of ventilation in sweetening putrid water 
is well known. Now water in a stone or lead cistern 
freely exposed to the air, and particularly if the 
growth of confervas be prevented by excluding the 
light will not become putri<l in (he {greatest heat cf 



i9§ DOJ»rESTiG ECONOMY. 

this climate, unless it be mixed with a very uncom- 
mon proportion of some decomposcable animal or 
vegetable substance. The diffusing of clay in wa- 
ter may however have some effect upon it; for It 
has been observed, that horses prefer the water of 
a clay-pit: and if there be any disengaged vitriolic 
acid in the clay, that acid may take off the putrid- 
ity. 

Perhaps charred casks preserve water longer 
than any other method. 

342. To purify Water for domesiic or ether Pur- 

poses. 

This method is extremely simple, and consists in 
placing horizontally, in the midst of a common wa- 
ter butt, a false bottom, perforated witlr -a great num- 
ber of small holes. The butt being thus divided in- 
to two equal parts, the upper is filled with pieces of' 
charcoal, which must be neither too large nor too 
small, thoroughly burned, light, and weli washed. 
Immediately under the cock, by which the water 
enters the butt, must be placed a small hollow cy- 
linder, being merely to break the force of the wa- 
ter, and prevent it from falling upon the charcoal 
with such violence as to detach from it any parti- 
cles of dirt, and wash them through into the lower 
j^ceptacle ;• it is of little consequence of what mate- 
rial it is made*. M'» Siauve thinks that this contriv- 
ance might be made subservient to the interests af 
agriculture as well as domestic economy ; and that 
it would be highly advantageous to provide water 
thus filtered for the catde, during the whole of the 
dog-days, and particularly when the ponds and 
sreams are infected by the rotting of the hemp and 
Hax. 

Remark. — A very good filtre may be made of 
charcoal, but it is comparatively expensive ; and 
there is a patent for the only way in which the fiUre 



DOMESTIC LCX).\OMY. 3 SI 

can be made to last. In the above receipt, if the 
charcoal is not in very fine powder, it will have lit- 
tle eftect in purifying the water; if it be, the char- 
coal will very soon choke from the quantity of mud 
deposited in it by the water, and ihe frequent re- 
newals of the charcoal, which would be necessary 
from the choking, would be found expensive. The 
contrivance could only be useful as a temporary 
means of ascertaining the power of the charcoal on 
the particular kind of water, with a view afterwards 
to procure a proper filtre. 

343. To purify Water for Drinking* 

Filter river water through a sponge, more or less 
compressed, instead of stone or sand, by which the 
v/ater is not only rendered more clear, but whole- 
some ; for sand is insensibly dissolved by the vva- 
Icr, so that in four or five years it will have lost a 
fifth part of its weight. Powder of charcoal should 
be added to the sponge v^rhen the water is foul, or 
fetid. Those who examine the large quantity of ter- 
,rene matter on the inside of tea-kettles will be con- 
vinced all water should be boiled before drunk, if 
they wish to avoid being afilicted with gravel and 
stone, &:c. &:c. 

344. To purify the muddy Water of Rivers or Pits, 

Make a number of holes in the bottom of a deep 
tub ; lay some clean gravel thereon, and above this 
some clean sand ; sink this tub in the river or pit, 
so that only a few inches of the tub will be above 
the surface of the water; the river or pit water will 
.filter through the sand, and rise clear through it to 
■the level of the water on the Outside, and will be 
pure and limpid. 

345. Method of making putrid Water szveet in a 

Jsl'ight''s Time, 

•Four large spoonfuls of unslacked lime put int« 



1^2 DOMESTIC ECONOMY, 

a puncheon of ninety gallons of putrid water, fttsei 
will, in one night, make it as clear and sweet as the 
best spring water just drawn; but unless the watei 
is afterwards ventilated sufFicjently to carbonize the 
lime, it will be a lime water. Three ounces of pure 
imslacked lime should saturate ninety gallons of 
water. 

3-^6. To prevent the Freezing of Water in Pipes in 
the Winter Time, 

By tying up the ball-cock, during "the frost, the 
freezing of pipes will often be prevented ; in fact, 
it will always be prevented where the main pipe is 
higher than the cistern or other reservoir^ and the 
pipe is laid in a regular inclination from one to the 
other, for then no water can remain in the pipe; or 
-if the main is lower than the cistern, and the pipe 
regularly inclines, upon the supplies ceasing, the 
pipe will immediately exhaust itself into the main. 
Where water is in the pipes, if each cock is left a 
iitde dripping, this circulation of the waiter will fre- 
^|uently prevent the pipes from bting frozen. 

347. Easy Method of purifying Water, 

Take a common garden pot, in the midst of which 
place a vpiece of wicker work ; on this spread a lay- 
er of charcoal of four or five inches in thickness, 
and above the charcoal a quantity of sand. The 
surface of the sand is to be covered with paper 
pierced full of holes, to prevent the water from 
malting channels in it. This liker is to be renewed 
occasionally. By this process, which is at once 
simple and economical, every person is enabled to 
procure pure limpid 'water at a very trifling ex- 
pense. 

548. The best Method of obtaining pure Soft Wafer, 
for Medicinal Purposes, without distilling it. 
Place an earthen pan in the fields, at a consider- 



DOMESTIC ECOiNOMY. 193 

^"ble distance from the smoke of any town, to catch 
the rain as it falls from the clouds. The water 
ishould be put into perfectly clean bottles, and the 
corks well secured with wax, and if the bottles are 
put into a cool place, the water will keep sweet for 
•several years. 

-349. To purify River or any other Muddy Water, 

Dissolve half an ounce of alum in a pint of warm 
water, and stirring it about in a puncheon of water 
just taken from any river, all the impurities will soon 
setde to the bottom, and in a day or two it will be* 
come as clear as th<j finest spring water. 

350. Warm Water. 

Warm water is preferable to cold water, as a 
drink, for persons who are subject to dyspeptic and 
bilious complaints, and it may be taken more freely 
than cold water, and consequently answers better as 
a diluent for carrying off bile, and removing obstruc- 
•tions in the urinary secretion in cases of stone and 
gravel. When water, of a temperature equal to that 
of the human body, is used for drink, it pi*oves con- 
siderably stimulant, and is particularly suited to 
dyspeptic, bilious, gouty, and chlorotic subjects. 

351. To make Sea-Water Jit for washing Linen at 

Sea. 

Soda put into sea-water, renders it turbid ; the 
lime and magnesia fall to the bottom. To make sea- 
water fit for washing linen at sea, as much soda 
must be put in it, as not only to effect a complete 
precipitation of these earths, but to render the sea- 
water sufficiently lixivial or alkaline. Soda should 
always be taken to sea for this purpose. 

•352. Proper Method of making Toast and Water, and 
the Advantages resulting therefrom. 

Take a slice of fine and stale loaf- bread, cut rfr- 

R 



194 DOMESTIC ECOMOMY* 

ry thiR, (as thin as toast is ever cut,) and let it 1je 
carefully toasted on both sides, until it be completely 
browned all over, but no wise blackened or burned 
in any way. Put this into a common deep stone or 
china jug, and pour over it, from the tea-kettle, as 
much clean boiling water as you wish to make into 
drink. Much depends on the water being actually 
in a boiling state. Cover the jug with a saucer or 
plate, and let the drink cool until it be quite cold ; 
it is then fit to be used : the fresher it is made the 
better, and of course the more agreeable. The a- 
bove will be found a pleasant, light, and highly diu- 
retic drink. It is peculiarly grateful to the stomach, 
and excellent for carrying off the effects of any ex- 
cess in drinking. It is also a most excellent drink 
at meals, and may be used in the summer time, if 
more agreeable to the drinker. 

353. To make a Vessel for filtering Water, 

Where water is to be filtered in large quantities, 
as for the purposes of a family, a particular kind of 
soft, spongy stones, called filtering-stones, are em- 
ployed. These, however, though the water perco- 
lates through them very fine, and in sufficient quan- 
tity at first, are liable to be obstructed in the same 
manner as paper, and are then rendered useless. A 
better method seems to be, to have a wooden vessel 
lined with lead, three or four feet >wide at top, but 
tapering so as to end in a small orifice at the bot- 
tom. The under part of the vessel is to be filled 
with very rough sand, or gravel, well freed from 
earth by washing ; over this pretty fine sand may 
be laid, to the depth of twelve or fourteen inches, 
bn w^^ichmust likewise be well freed from earthy 
^particles. 

The vessel may then be filled up to the top with 
water, pouring it gently at first, lest the sand should 
ije too mucb displaced. It will soon filter througi;i 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY. I9o 

the sand, and run out at the lower orifice exceeding- 
ly transparent, and likewise in very considerable 
quantities. When, the upper part of the sand begins 
to be stopped up, so as not to allow a free passage 
to the water, it may occasionally be taken oif, and 
the earthy matter washed from it, when it will be 
equally serviceable as before. 

354.^ The Turkish Method of filtering water hy As- 
cension, 

They make two wells, from five to ten feet, or 
any depth, at a small distance, which have a conj- 
m^unication at the bottom. The separation must be 
of clay well beaten, or of other substances impervi- 
ous to water. The two wells are then filled with 
sand and gravel. The opening of that into which 
the water to be filtered is to run^ must be somewhat 
higher than that into which the water is to ascend ; 
and this must not have sand quite up to its brim, 
that there may be room for the filtered water; or it 
may, by a spout, run into a vessel placed for that 
purpose. The greater the difference is between the 
height of the two wells, the faster the water will fil- 
ter; but the less it is, the better, provided a suffi- 
cient quantity of water be supplied by it. 

This may be practised in a cask, tub, jar, or other 
vessel. The water may be conveyed to the bottom 
by a pipe, the lower end having a sponge in it, or 
the pipe may be filled with coarse sand. 

It is evident that all such particles, which by 
their gravity are carried down in filtration by des- 
cent, will not rise with the water in filtration by as- 
cension. This might be practised on board ships at 
little expense. 

355. To preserve Lemon Juiee during a long 

Voyage, 

Care Qiast be taken to squeeze only sound fruit, 
as a tainted lemon will endanger the spoiling of the 



I 96 DOxMESTie- ECt>NOMY. 

whole ; the expressed juice must be deptiratecT, by 
standing a (ew days, adding one ounce of cream of 
tartar to every quart of lemon juice ; filter it pretty 
clear; then it is to be put into small bottles, none 
of them containing more than a pint of juice; in 
the neck of the bottle, a littte of the best oil of 
olives is to be poured, and the cork well sealed 
over. 

356. Method of preservirig Grapes, 

Take a cask or barrel, inaccessible to the exter- 
nal air, and put it into a layer of bran, dried in an 
oven, or of ashes well dried and sifted. Upon this, 
place a layer of grapes well cleaned, and gathered 
in the afternoon of a dry day, before they are per- 
fectly ripe. Proceed thus with alternate layers of 
bran and grapes, till the barrel is full, taking care 
that the grapes do not touch each other, and to let 
the last layer be of bran ; then close the barrel, so 
that the air may not be able to penetrate, which is 
an essential point. Grapes, thus packed, will keep 
nine or even twelve months. To restore them to 
their freshness, cut the end of the stalk of each 
bunch of grapes, and put that of white grapes into 
white v\'ine, and that of the black grapes into red 
•wine, as you would put ilowers into water, to revive 
or keep them fresh. 

357. Singular and simple Jllanner o/prcserving Ap- 
ples from the Effects of Frost, in J\^orth America, 

Apples being produced most abundantly in North 
America, and forming an articleof chief necessity in 
almost every family, the greatest care is constantly 
taken to protect them from frost at the earliest com- 
mencement of the winter season ; it being well 
known, that apples, if left unprotected, are inevita- 
bly destroyed by the first frost which occurs. This 
desirable object, during their long and severe win- 
ters, is said to be completely effected, by only throw- 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 19T 

ing over them a thin linen cloth before the approach^ 
of frost, when the fruit beneath is never injured, 
how severe soever the winter may happen to prove. 
Yet apples are there usually kept in a small apart- 
ment, inmiediatcly beneath the roof of the house, 
particularly appropriated to that purpose, and where 
there is never any fire. This is a fact so well known, 
that the Americans are astonished it should appear 
at all wonderful : and they have some reason to be 
so, when it is considered that, throughout Germany, 
the same method of preserving fruit is universally 
practised ; from whence, probably, it made its way 
to North America. It appears, that linen cloth only 
is used for this purpose ; woollen cloth, in particu- 
lar, having been experienced to prove ineiiectual. 
There seems abundant reason to believe, that even 
potatoes might be protected from frost by some such 
simple expedient, - 

Remark,T— This article, as well as the preceding, 
(to which the principle seems very analogou?^,) 
merits high consideration ; and for the same import- 
ant reasoii, its capability of conducing to the uni- 
versal benefit of mankind, and the numerous ani- 
mals under our protection*. 

358. To keep Oranges and Lemons. 

Take small sand and make it very dry ; after it 
is ccld put a quantity of it into a clean vessel ; then 
take your oranges, and set a laying of them in the 
same, the stalk-end downwards, so that they do not; 
touch each other, and strew in some of the sand, 
as much as will cover them two inches deep ; theii 
set your vessel in a cold place, and you will find^ 
your fruit in high preservation at the end of severaL 
months. . 

359. Another, 

Freeze the oranges, and keep them in an ice- 
house. When to be used, put them into a vessel of 

112 



198 DOMESTIC EeONOMY. 

cold water till they are thawed. By this means they 
may be had in perfection at any season of the year. 

360. Kew Method of preserving Potatoes, 

The following method of preserving potatoes was 
communicated by Mr. Millington, to the Society for 
Bettering the Condition of the Poor : 

I caused (says this gentleman) three pounds and 
a half of potatoes to be peeled and rasped ; then 
put in a coarse cloth, between two boards, in a nap- 
kin press, and pressed them into a dry cake, hardly 
so thick as a thin cheese. They were then placed 
on a shelf to dry. There was about a quart of juice 
expressed from the potatoes. To this was added a- 
bout a like quantity of water, and in about an hour 
it deposited more than sixty grains of white starch 
or flour, fit to make pastry. A cake of this was pre- 
pared and sent to the Society. In bulk it occupied 
only a sixth of the compass of the potatoes; in 
weight it had lost about two-thirds by the process; 
but the cake, when dressed with steam or other- 
wise, will produce nearly the same quantity of foOd 
as three pounds and a half of potatoes, properly 
dressed for table, would do. Some potatoes, quite 
frozen, have been prepared this way, and the cake 
was perfectly sweet ; whereas some of the same 
parcel that were left, and not pre,ssed^ were rotten 
and spoiled in a few days. 

361. To preserve Potatoes from the Frost, 

If you have not a convenient store-place for them, 
dig a trench three or four feet deep, into which they 
are to be laid as they are taken up, and then cover- 
ed with the earth taken out of the trench, raised u^ 
in the middle like the roof of a house, and covered 
with straw, to carry off the rain. They will be thus 
preserved from the frost, and can be taken up as 
they are wanted* 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY, 199 

362, Method of recovering Frost-Bitten Fruits or 
Vegetables, 

This may be done by putting such fruits and 
roots, as pears, apples, potatoes, Sic, as have been 
penetrated by frost, into cold water, when a thaw 
approaches, and letting them remain in the water 
some time, till by the plumpness and fairness of the 
fruit and roots it appears that the particles of tho. 
frost are extracted. This method has been often 
tried and found to answer, but at the same time the 
utmost care should be taken to preserve these things 
from the frost, as it is better to keep off an enemy 
than to be at the trouble of driving him out. 

3G3* To preserve Apples, 

Dry a glazed jar perfectly well, put a few peb- 
bles in the bottom; fill the jar with apples, and 
cover it with a bit of wood made to iit exactly ; and 
over that, put a litde fresh mortar. The pebbles 
attract the damp of the apples. The mortar draws 
the air from the jar, and leaves the apples free from 
its pressure, which, together with the principle of 
putrefaction which the air contains, are the causes of 
decay. Apples, kept thus, have been found quita- 
sound, fair, and juicy, in July, 

364. Preservation of Succulent Plants, 

Green succulent plants are better preserved after 
a momentary immersion in boiling water, than other- 
wise. This practice has been successfully used in 
the preservation of cabbage, and other plants, dried 
for keeping ; it destroys the vegetable life at once^ 
and in a great measure prevents that decay which 
otherwise attends them. 

^^5, A Method of preserving Fruit fresh all the 

Year, 

Take of saltpetre one pound, of bole-armenic 
two pounds, of common sand, well freed from its 



200 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

earthy parts, four pounds, and mix altogether. After 
this, let the fruit be gathered with the hand before 
it be thoroiighly ripe, each fruit being handled only 
by the stalk; lay them regularly, and in order, in a 
large wide-mouthed glass vessel ; then cover the top 
of the glass with an oiled paper, and carrying it in- 
to a dry ptlace, set it in a box tilled all round, to a- 
bout four inches thickness, with the aforesaid prepa- 
rations, so that no part of the glass vessel shall ap- 
pear, being in a manner buried in the prepared ni- 
tre : and at the end of a year such fruits may be tak- 
en out, as beautiful as when they were first put in. 

366. To preseri:& Hazel jVuts in great P&rfictionfoTF 
many Months, 

Hazel nuts may be kept a long time in- full kernel 
by burying them in earthen pots, well closed, a foc^ 
or two in the gi-ound. They keep best in gravelly 
or sandy places. 

S67. To manage Ripe Fruit for a Desert. 

Take some fruit-baskets of open work, cover them. 
%vith large leaves, and at seven o'clock in the morn- 
ing go out and gather the fruit. When you have care- 
fully chosen what is ripe, and laid it handsomely in 
the basket, let it be placed in a cool, but not damp 
room, till.it is wanted. When the ripest are gather* 
ed, the rest are to be preserved ;. and with respect 
to birds, some lime twigs and trap cages should be 
placed, and lines of feathers hung about the place* . 

368. To preser'oe Aromatic and other Herbs. 

The boxes and drawers in which vegetable mat- 
ters are kept, should not inipart to them any smell or 
taste; and more certainly to avoid this, they should 
be lined with paper. Such as are vplatile, of a deli-^ 
cate texture, or subject to suffer from insects, must be 
kept in well covered glasses. F'ruits and^ oily seeds, 
which are apt to become rancid, must be kept in a 



tiOMESirC ECONOMY. 2(T1 

cool and di-y, but by no means in a warm or moist 
place. 

369. To preserve Grapes fill Winter. 

About September, when grapes are nearly ripc^ 
pi'ocure some bags made eillier of crape, muslin, 
gauze or whife paper. 

Select some of the best bunches, and, with a pair 
ofsharp narrow-pointed scissars, cut offall small un- 
ripe, rotten, mouldy, or imperfect grapes, especially: 
those eaten by flies or wasps. 

Inclose each bunch in a bag, and tie the bag. fast 
with a string, so that no insect can get into it. In 
the middle of a fine day in October, gather them,, 
with a piece of the shoot- to them, and hang them 
up in a dry warm room. 

Dip the end of the shoots in melted rosin or seal- 
ing-wax. Examine them frequently, lest they 
should get mouldy or rotten. 

370. Walnut Ketchup^ 

Take half a bushel of green walnuts, before the 
shell is formed, and grind them in a crab mill, or 
beat them in a marble mortar ; then squeeze out 
the juices through a coarse cloth, and wring the 
cloth well to get all the juice out, and to every gal- 
lon, of juice put a quart of red wine, a quarter of a 
pound of anchovies, the same of bay salt, one ounce 
of allspice, two of long or black pepper, half an 
ounce of cloves and mace, a little ginger and horse- 
radish, cut in slices ; boil all together till reduced 
to half the quantity; pour into a pan ; when it is 
cold bottle it, cork it tight, and it will be fit to use 
in thcee months. If you have any pickle left in the 
jar after your walnuts are used, to every gallon of 
pickle put in two heads of garlic, a quart of red 
wine, an ounce each of cloves and mace, long, black,„ 
and Jamaica pepper, and boil them, altogether tilt- 



A 



202 DOMESTIC ECONOMY, 

it is reduced to half the quantity, pour it into a pariy 
and the next day bottle it for use, and cork it tight» 

371 . To cork and preserve Cijder in Boitles, 

Good corks are highly necessary, and if soaked 
before used in scalding water, they will be the more 
pliant and serviceable; and by laying the bottles 
so that the liquor mayalways keep the cork wet and 
swelled, will much preserve it. 

372. To make excellent Punch* 

One tea-spoonful of Cox well's acid salt of lemons^ 
a quarter of a pound of sugar, a quart of water near- 
ly boiling, half a pint of rum, and a quarter of a 
pint of brandy'; a little lemon peel may be addcd^ 
or in place thereof, a hw drops of essence of leaij 
on.. 

373. To make a pleasant^ soher, and refreshing 

Drink for the Summer, 

Take one bottle of sherry (but Madeira is pre- 
ferable,) two- bottles of cyder, one of perry, and 
one gill of brandy; and after those ingredients are 
mixed, take two lemons, pare the rind as thin as 
possible ; then slice the lemons, and put the rind 
and lemons into a cup ; to these add a little grated 
nutmeg and powdered sugar, to make it palatable ; 
stir them together ; then toast a biscuit very brown, 
and throw, it hot into the liquor. It is generally 
found a pleasant draught at dinner, and produces 
no bad. effects on those who drink it in moderation. 

374. To make the German Liquor^ Mum. 

Mum is made of various sorts of grain, in the fol> 
lovving proportions : to seven bushels of wheaten 
mrdt, add one bushel of oatmeal, one bushel of 
ground beans, and a variety oi other articles, as 
the Lops of fir, wild thyme, &c. ; also ten new laid 
eggs. These articles ought to be infused into six- 
ty-three gailoiis of water boiled down to forty-one«. 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 203 

375. To make the celebrated Eastern Beverage^ call- 

ed Sherbet, 

This liquor is a species of negus without the wine. 
It consists of water, lemon or orange juice, and su- 
gar, in which are dissolved perfumed cakes, made 
of the best Damascus fruit, and containing also an 
infusion of some drops of rose-water : another kind 
is made of violets, honej, juice of raisins, &c. It is 
well calculated for assuaging thirst, as the acidity is 
agreeably blended with sweetness. It resembles, 
indeed, those fruits which we find so grateful when 
one is thirsty. 

376. To make Birch-tree Wine, 

The vernal sap of the birch-tree is made into 
wine. In the beginning of March, while the sap 
is rising, holes must be bored in the body of the 
tree, and fassets, made of elder, placed in them, 
to convey away the liquid. If the tree be large it 
may be tapped in several places at a time, and 
thus, according to the number of trees, the quanti- 
ty of liquid is obtained. The sap is to be boiled 
with sugar, in the proportion of four pounds to a 
gallon, and treated in the same manner as other 
made wines. 

One great advantage attaching to the birch is, 
that it will grow on almost any barren ground. 

377. Currant Wine, 

Gather your currants on a fine dry day, when the 
fruit is full ripe, steep them, put them in a large 
pan, and bruise them with a wooden pestle ; let 
them stand in a pan or tub twenty-four hours to fer- 
ment, then run it through a hair sieve, and do not 
let your hand touch the liquor ; to every gallon of 
this' liquor put tv/o pounds and a half of white su- 
gar, stir it well together, and put it into^ your ves- 
sel. To every six gallons put in a quart of bran- 
dy, and let it stand six weeks ; if it is fine, bottle 



204 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

it ; if it is not, draw it off as clear as you can jnto 
another vessel, or large bottles, and in a fortntght 
bottle it into smaller bottles. ii. 

378. Elder Wine. 

Pick the elder-berries when Mi ripe; put them 
into a stone jar, and set them in the oven, or a ket> 
lie of boiling water, till the jar is hot through ; then 
take them out and strain them through a coarse 
cloth, wringing the berries, and put the juices into 
a clean kettle ; to every quart of juice put a pound 
of fine Lisbon sugar; let it boil, and skim it well; 
when it k clear and fine pour it into a jar ; when 
cold cover it close, and keep it till you make raisin 
wine ; and lo every gallon of wine put half a pint 
of elder syrup. 

379. Qrapp.. Wine. 

To every gallon of ripe grapes put a gallon of soft 
ivater, bruise the grapes, let them stand a week 
without stirring, and draw the liquor off fine ; to 
€very gallon of wine put three pounds of lump su- 
gar ; put it into a vessel, but do not stop it till it 
has done hissing, then stop it close, and in six 
months it v.'ill be fit to bottle. 

A better wine, ^though -smaller in quantity, will 
be made by leaving out the water, and diminishing 
the quantity of sugar. Water is only necessary 
where the juice is so scanty or so thick, as in cow- 
islip, balm, or black currant wine, that it could not 
be used without it. Very good wine, after keep- 
ing for twelve months, has been made by adding a 
proper quantity of sugar to grapes which were so 
hard that it was necessary to burst them over the 
ifire to get out the juice, 

380. An excellent Family Wine 

May be made of equal parts of red, white, and 
black currants, ripe cherries, aad raspberries, well 



DOMESTIC EC 0X0 MY. 206 

l>rul6ecl, and mixed with soft water, in the propor- 
tion of four pounds of fruit to one gallon of water. 
When strained and pressed, three pounds of raoisl 
sugar are to be added to each gallon of liquid. Af- 
ter standing open three days, dui'ing which it is to 
be stirred frequently, and scum it as it may require, 
it is to be put into a barrel, and left for a fortnight 
to work, when a ninth part of brandy is to be ad- 
ded, and the whole bunged down ; and in two 
or three years it will be rich and valuable. 

381. To extract Syrup from Indian Corn* 

The young spikes, when they are beginning to 
form, possess a very agreeable saccharine taste. 
Ten pounds of them squeezed in a stone moiiai', 
and the juice expressed, after the leaves are strip- 
ped off, will give about four pounds of a milky 
juice, which, when clarified, and evaporated to the 
consistence of a syrup, will be found very agreea- 
ble to the palate. This vegetable will grow in Eng- 
land from the seed, sown in good soil. 

382. ^ Excellent Bitter for the Stomach* 

One ounce of gentian root sliced, one ounce of 
fresh rind of lemon, two drachms of cardamom 
seeds bruised, three drachms of -Seville orange peel; 
pour a pint and a half of boiling water -over the in- 
gredients, let it stand an hour, then decant the 
clear liquor, and take a wine glass full two or three 
times a day. 

It should be kept closely covered after the water 
is put in the ingredients. 

383. To detect Sugar of Lead in Wines, 

The tincture of orpiment converts wine so aduU 
(crated to a black colour. 



S06 DOMESTIC ECONOMV. 

384. A Test for discovering in Wine, Mdals that are 
injurious to the Health, 

The property of liver of sulphur, and of hepatic 
gas, in precipitating lead of a black colour, has 
been long known ; and that property has been made 
use of to ascertain the goodness of wine, in the 
preparation of the -liquor prohatorius Wurtemher- 
giensis. 

But in trying wines which we suspect to be adul- 
terated, that proof does more harm than good ; be- 
cause it precipitates the iron of the same colour 
with the pernicious lead ; by which means, some 
dealers of respectable characters have heen ruined. 

It was wanting, therefore, to find an agent which 
would discover nothing in wine but what was pre- 
judicial to health. This is accomplished by the 
following test, which precipitates lead and copper 
of a black colour, arsenic of an orange colour, &lc, 
but does not iron, which being innocent, or rather 
salutary, to the human constitution, gets into a great 
number of different sorts of wine by various acci- 
dents. 

Receipt for ihe Test Liquor, — Mix equal parts of 
oyster sdiells, and crude sulphur reduced to a fine 
powder, and put the mixture in a crucible. Heat 
this in a wind furnace, and suddenly raise the heat 
till the crucible is exposed to a white heat for fifteen 
minutes. When the mass is cool, reduce it to pow- 
der, and keep it in a bottle well corked. 

To make the liquor, put 120 grains of this pow- 
der and iSO grains of cream of tartar into a strong 
bottle full of common water, which has been boiled 
for an hour, and suffered to cool. Cork the botde 
immediately, and shake it from time to time. Alier 
having stood a few hours, pour ofi'what is clear of 
the liquor into ounce phials, after having previous- 
ly put into each of them twenty drops of spirit of 
;sea salt ; and then stop them well with wax tjiixeci 
^ith a Utde turpentine. 



BOMESTIC ECONOMY. 207 

\ 

One part of this liquor, mixed with three parts 
of wine adulterated, will discover, by a very sensi- 
ble black precipitate, the smallest quantity of lead, 
copper, &c. but will have no eficct on any iron it 
may contain. VVheathe precipitation is made, iron 
may be discovered by saturating the wine remain- 
ini:^, when poured off, with a little salt of tartar, 
when the liquor becomes instantly black. 

Pure wines remain perfectly clear after the addi- 
tion of this liquor* 

3S5. Suhstitufe for Soap, easily prepared in smalt 
Quantities, hy private Families in the Country. 

Collect, before the time of seeding, thistles, net- 
tles, fern, and such other weeds as usually infest 
the borders of high roads and hedges, and burn 
them in a large heap, gradually, till the whole are 
consumed, and carefully preserve the ashes in a 
dry place, ready to make the ley wanted for the 
purpose of making a substitute for soap. 

The requisite materials and utensils should be 
prepared, which are but few in number. They 
consist, Ist, Of a small tub of white wood, nine 
inches in width, and as manv in heigjht. This tub 
should be perforated near the bottom ; its use is for 
mixing the leys. (Were it made of oak, it would 
colour the leys.) 2d, A small copper bason, with 
a round bottom, a foot in diameter, and seven or 
eight inches in depth ; or where this cannot be pro- 
cured, an iron pot, or earthen vessel, that can 
bear the fire, may be used. This vessel is intend- 
ed for boiling the mixture. 3d, For this small 
manufacture are finally required a skimmer, a spa- 
tula of white wood, and two earthen pans. 

The materials necessary are, 1, some good ash- 
es ; 2, lime ; and 3, oil, tallow, or kitchen fat. 

Method of preparing the Leys, 
Take thpee pounds of ashes and one pound of 



'•20S DOMESTIC ECONOMT. 

lime. First, moisten the lime with a small quantN 
ty of water, in order to slake it; and after it has 
completely crumbled down, mix it with the ashes^ 
and put this mixture into the tub^ having previously 
spread a piece of canvas at the bottom ; care- 
fully close the hole at the bottom of the tub ; after 
which pour upon the materials a quantity of water 
sufficient to soak it well through, and rise above it 
m the vessel, to the height of about three finger 
breadths. Then stir it well with a stick, and suf- 
fer it to stand for some hours ; then open the hole^ 
in order to let the ley run off, which is collected 
and kept by itself.. This is the first ley ; then a- 
gain put fiesh water in the tub, stir the materials 
with a stick, let them stand for some hours, and 
then draw off the second ley, which is also kept 
separate ; the third ley is obtained in the same man- 
ner, by pouring fresh water upon the remainder of 
the ashes, which will now have been sufficiently 
exhausted of its saline particles. 

Take equal quantities of the first ley, and of kitch- 
en fat, tallow, or oil, and melt them together in 
your copper bason, over a gentle fire, til! they are 
well incor[)orated, by constantly agitating them 
with vop.r wooden spatula. When the ley and 
grease are well united, you may add more ley of 
the second quality, and digest ihcm for some time 
with a gentle heat, till the mixture is completed, 
t iking care to stir it well all the time ; then pour it 
into your earthen pans to cool atuJ preserve for use. 
A few trials will enable you to make it in a j)eriect 
manner; and a liille of this composition will be 
found to answer all the purposes of soap for family 
use. The sui'phis ley of the stronger kinds may 
be preserved for iuture use, and the weaker ley will 
serve to put upon fresh ashes on a future occasion ; 
era litde of any of these leys v.ill form a useful steep, 
with a considerable quantity of warm water, for the 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 209' 

dirty plain linen intended to be washed, but will b(^ 
too strong for printed calicoes or dyed articles. 

386. To make Jamaica Vegetable Soap, 

This soap is prepared from the great American 
aloe, in the fallowing manner : — The large succu- 
lent leaves being cut, are passed between the rol- 
lers of a mill, with their point foremost, and the 
juice being conducted into wide, shallow receivers, 
through a coarse cloth or strainer, lies exposed to 
a hot sun, till it is reduced to a thick consistence. 
It is then made up into balls, with lye ashes, to pre- 
vent it from sticking to the fingers ; after which it 
may be kept for years, and serve for use, as well 
as Castile soap, in washing linen ; but it has the 
superior quality of mixing and forminga lather with 
salt water as well as fresh. 

Another method of preparing this soap is, by cut- 
ting the leaves in pieces, pounding them in a large 
wooden mortar, and then expressing the juice, which 
u brought afterwards to a consistence, either bv 
the sun or by boiling.. One gallon of this juice, 
thus prepared, will yield about one pound, avoidu- 
poise, of a soft extract. It will answer prepared in 
either of these ways, provided the juice, before ex- 
posure to the sun or fire, be very carefully strained 
from the bruised fibres, and other membrane of the 
leaves. The extract must never be compounded 
with tallow, or any other unctuous materials, for 
such mixtures destroy its effect. 

The leaves are used for scouring pewter and 
other kitchen utensils, and also for floors. 

387. To make Lady Derby'^s Soap, 

Two ounces of bitter almonds blanched, one 
ounce and a quarter of tincture of benjamin, one 
pound of good plain white soap, and one ()ieoe of 
:ajnphor the size of a walnut. The almonds arid . 

s 2- 



:210 DOMESTIC ECOUOMT.^ 

camphor are to be beaten in a morfear until they are 
completely mixed ; then work up with them the 
tincture of benjamin. The mixture being perfectly 
made, work the soap into it in the same manner. 
If the smell is too powerful of the camphor and tinc- 
ture of benjamin, melt the soap by the fire, and the 
perfume will go off. This soap has been tried by 
many persons of distinction, is excellent in its quali- 
ties for cleansing the skin, and will be found great- 
ly to assist the complexion, the ingredients being 
perfectly safe, and free from those pernicious prop- 
erties that are mostly incorporated with other soap. 

388. To make British Herb Tea. 

Take of hawthorn leaves, diied, two parts, sage 
and balm one part ;^ mix these well together, and 
they will make an excellent and pleasant sanative 
tea, particularly wholesome to nervous people. 

389. British Substitute for Foreign Tea. 

Betony, if gathered when just going to flower, 
has the taste of tea, and all the good qualities of it, 
without the bad ones, and moreover, it cures in- 
veterate head- aches.. 

390. Another. 

Make an infusion of ground ivy, which ivS very a- 
greeable in flavour, especially if you add to it a 
drop or two of lemon juice. It is reported by ma- 
ny, that the habitual use of this herb will cure the 
most obstinate consumption. It is certainly a good 
pectoral, and when green is fragrant ; if mixed with 
a few flowers of lavender, it makes a most agreea- 
ble liquor for summer use; and, if gathered at a 
proper time, has an agreeable taste to ine^ny, but 
wholesome to all, even when dry. 

39 1 , Another. 

Balm, or lemon balm alone, or with sagCj is mucE 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 211 

recommended, with a few flowers of lavender ; it 
has a most delicious flavour and taste, but is most 
agreeable when green. 

392. The Virtues of Sage, 

This valuable herb was held in such high esteenr? 
among the ancients, that they have left us a Latin 
verse, which signifies, 
" Why should a man die whilst he has sage in his garden ?" 

It is reckoned admirable as a cordial, and to 
sweeten andcleanse the blood. It is good in ner- 
vous cases, and is given in fevers, with a view to 
promote perspiration. With the addition of a little 
lemon juice, it is very grateful and cooling ; some 
choose to take it dry, alleging that the surface of 
tlie leaves of green sage abound with animalcules, 
which are very visible through a microscope, and 
so there are in many articles of common food ; but 
we may be assured, even if this is the case, that as 
they are nourished with the sage, they are of no 
harm, and, at all events, a little hot water will des- 
troy them. 

393. To'" prevent excessive Thirst in cases of Emer- 

gency at Sea, in the Summer Time. 

When thirst is excessive, as is often the case in 
summer time during long voyages, avoid, if possible, 
even in times of the greatccit necessity, the drinking 
of salt water to allay the thirst, but rather keep 
thinly clad, and frequen dy dip in the sea, v/hich 
will appease both hunger and thirst for a long time^ 
and prevent the disagreeable sensation of swallow- 
ing salt water. 

394. To preserve Eggs sound for the space of Two 

Years, 

For the following process, for keeping and pre- 
serving eggs perfectly sound, a patent was granted 



212 DOMESTIC ECOKOMT. 

in February, 1791, to Mr. Jayne, of SheSi^kL 
Yorkshire : 

Put into a tub or vessel one bushel, Winchester, 
measure, of quicklime, thirty-two ounces of salt, 
eight ounces of creara of tartar, and mix the same 
together witii as much water as will reduce the com- 
position, or mixture, to that consistence, that it 
Tvill cause an egg put into it to swim with its top just 
above the liquid : then put, and keep the eggs 
therein, which will preserve them perfectly sound 
for the space of two years at the leastv 

This method is not the vvorse for being simple, 
and the still simpler one of merely keeping eggs in. 
salt, is known by many good housewives to pre- 
serve eggs quite sound for a/considerable time. 

S95. Manner of preserving Eggs perfictli/ fresh, for 
Tioeh e Months . 

Having provided small casks, like oyster barrelsj. 
fill them with fresh- laid eggs ; then pour into each/ 
cask, the head of which is supposed to have been^^ 
lirst taken out, as much cold thick lime-water as 
will fill up all the void spaces between the eggs, and 
likewise completely cover them* The thicker the- 
lime-water is the better, provided, it will fill up all 
the interstices, and be liquid at the top of the cask ; 
this done, lay on the head . of the cask lightly. No^ 
farther care is necessary, than merely to prevent, 
the lime from growing too hard, by adding, occa- 
sionally, a litde common water on the surface, 
should it seem so disposed, and keeping the casks 
from heat and frost. The eggs, when taken out for : 
use, are to be washed from the adhering lime with 
a little cold water, when they will have both the ap» 
}:)earance and qualities of fresh laid eggs, the lime- 
preserving them from shrinking or putriditvo . 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 21 S 

396. Manner of preserving Eggs perfeclli/ fresh, for 

Twelve Months, 

The most simple and easy mode of preserving 
eggs is to rub the outside of the shell as soon as 
gathered from the nest, with a little butter, or any 
other grease that is not fetid. J3y filling u]) the 
]jores of the shell, the evaporation of the liquid part 
of the egg is prevented ; and either by that means, 
or by excluding the external air, which Fourcroy 
supposes destroys the railkiness which most people 
&re fond of in new-laid eggs, that milkincss will be 
preserved for months, as perfect as when the egg 
was taken from the nest. 

397. Cream preserved 171 long Voyages, 

Mix with a quantity of fresh rich cream; half its 
weight of white sugar in powder; stir the whole 
well together, and preserve it in bottles well cork- 
ed. In this state it is ready to mix with tea or cof- 
fee, and has continued in good condition during a 
voyage to America .u 

398. Substitute for Human Milk, where, from any 
Circumstance, it cannot be procured for Chddren, 

In a quart of water boil tv/o ounces of hartshorn 
shavings over a gentle fire, till the whole is reduced 
to a pint ; mix this with twice its quantity of cow's 
milk, and the addition of a little sugar. This forms 
for children a proprr aliment, approaching nearly 
to the nature of human milk. 

399. To make Old Man\^ Milk : a nutricious and 

pleasant Beverage, 

Beat up the yolk of an egg in a bowl or bason, 
and then mix with it some cream or milk, aiid a lit- 
tle sugar, according to the quantity wanted, and let 
them be thoroughly incorporated. A ;^]as.s of spirits, 
or more, is to be then poured gradually into the mix- 



k 



21:4 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

ture, so as to prevent the milk or cream from curd- 
ling. This mixture will be found useful to travellers 
who are obliged to commence tlioir journey car!^'^, 
particularly if the weather be cold and damp. 

400. To malu artificial Asses^ Milk, 

Two ounces of pearl barley, two ounces of j^tirts- 
horn shavings, three ounces of Eringo root carfJied,. 
nine garden snails ; boil these if) six quarts of spring 
water till it comes to three ; puf two spoonfuls of 
cow's milk into half a pint of the above, and drink 
it lukewarm about half an hour before you rise in 
the morning. 

N. B. You may leave out the snails if you do not 
like them,, but it is best to use them. 

401. To prevent disagreeable Smells fro7n Privies, 

JVight Choirs, ^c. 

Milk of lime (water in which lime has been slack- 
ed, and which is whitened by the fine particles of 
that substance) must be mixed with a ley of ashes, 
or soapy water that has been used in washing, then 
thrown into the sink of the privy, it will destroy the 
oiiensive smell. By these means, for the value of a 
few pence, any collection of filth vvhatever may be 
neutral ised.„ 

For the night-chair of sick persons, put within 
the vessel half a pound of quicklime, half an ounce 
of powdered sal-ammoniac, ^nd water one pint: 
this will prevent any disagreeable odour.. 

Remark, — Quicklime, or even lime just slacked, 
answers the purpose without any addition. It is the 
only thing used in camps, particularly iii hot coun- 
tries, to keep the ditches from, creating contagion. 

402. To free Molasses from their sharp Taste, and 
to render them Jit to be used instead of Sugar, 

Take twenty-four pounds of m.olasses, twenty- 
fbur pQunds of water, and six pounds of charcoa],. 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 215 

coarseiy pulverised ; mix them in a kettle, and boil 
the whole over a slow wood fire. When the mixture 
has boiled half an hour, pour it into a flat vessel, in 
order that the charcoal may subside to the bottom ; 
"then pour off the liquid, and place it over the fire 
once more, that the superfluous water may evapo- 
rate, and the molasses brought to their former con- 
sistence. Twenty-four pounds af molasses will pro- 
duce twenty-four pounds of syrup. 

This method has been employed on a large 
scale, with the happiest effects ; the molasses be- 
come sensibly milder, and can be employed in ma- 
ny articles of food ; though in dishes, where milk is 
used, or for cordials mixed with spices, sugar is to 
be preferred. 

403. To destroy Bugs, 

Take of the highest rectified spirits of wine, (viz* 
lamp spirits) that will burn all away dry, and leave 
not the least moisture behind, half a pint; new dis- 
tilled oil, or spirits, of turpentine, half a pint; mix 
them together, and break into it, in small bits, half 
an ounce of camphor, which will dissolve it in a few 
minutes; shake them well together, and with a 
sponge, or a brush, dipt in some of it, wet very well 
the bed or furniture wherein these vermin harbour 
and breed, and it will infallibly kill and destroy 
both them and their nits, although they swarm 
ever so much. But then the bed or furniture must 
be well and thoroughly wet with it, (the dust upoa 
them being first brushed and shook off) by which 
vmeans it Vvill neither stain, soil, or in the least hurt 
the finest silk or damask bed that is.- The quantity 
here ordered of this curious neat white mixture, 
which costs about a shilling, will rid any one bed 
whatever, though it swarms with bugs. Do but 
touch a live bug with a drop of it, and you will find 
it die immediately : if any should happen to ap- 



216 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

pear, after once using, it will only be for want of 
well wetting the lacing, &;c. of the bed, or the fold- 
ings of the linings or curtains, near the rings, or the 
joints, or holes in and about the bed or head-board 
wherein the bugs or nits nestle and breed, and then 
their being well wet altogether again, with more of 
■the same mixture, which dries in as fast as you use 
it, pouring some of it into the joints or holes where 
the sponge or brush cannot reach, will never fail 
absolutely to destroy them all. Some beds, that 
have much wood work, can hardly be thoroughly 
cleaned without first being taken down ; but others 
that can be drawn out, or that you can get well be- 
hind to be done as it should be, may. 

J^ote, — The smell this mixture occasions will be 
gone in two or three days, which is yet very whole- 
some, and to many people agreeable. You must 
remember always to shake the liquor together very 
well whenever you use it, which must be in the day- I 
-time, not by candlelight, lest the subtlety of the ' 
mixture should catch the flame as you are using it, 
and occasion damage. 

404. Another. 

The risk of bugs in a large city is inevitable ; the 
clothes-box of servants, the going to a public-place . 
or in a public-carriage, or the insect being blown 
against the apparel while walking the streets, may ', 
introduce it into the house. But to cleanly people, / 
whose beds are examined, and the joints oiled with ; 
pure sweet oil three or four times a year, they can- >j 
not become troublesome ; except what no person-, 
can be secure against, they should succeed in the , 
occupation of a house, a filthy, though perhaps a 
very fine, predecessor, who has permitted the ani- -. 
mal to entrench itself in the walls and the ceiling. 

In such a situation tlie chimney and the windows 
i\iere pasted up air-tight, and after a mixture of poiv- 



DOMESTIC EGONOxMr. 21* 

^er of brimstone and salt-petre, (as used by the 
makers of vitriolic acid) was set fire to with proper 
precaution, in an earthen pan and sand, the doors 
we^re shut, and the joints pasted up. The remedy, 
and in such a case it was thought proper to furai- 
;gate all the rooms, was effectual. Coloured hang^ 
ings, &;c. which the gas might hurt, were removed 
to the bedding, and to wood it does no injury. 

There is however some difficulty in forming such 
<i quantity of vitriolic acid gas, which is heavy and 
■not very expansible, as completely to penetrate the 
crevices of the room in which the insects harbour. 
As the oxymuriatic gas is at least as strong a poi- 
son to animals as the vitriolic, there is no reason to 
anticipate that it is not equally so to the bug, and 
it is much more easily applied and more expansible, 
it is likely to answer, but there has been no similar 
opportunity of trying it. Coloured hangings should 
be removed, as though that gas will not affect com- 
pletely oxidated metallic dyes, it will bleach or 
Avhiten the vegetable colours. After some hours' fu- 
migation, the doors and windows should be thrown 
open, without breathing, or as little as possible, the 
air of the rooms. The remaining gas will then be 
dissipated more quickly than the vitriolic. 

405. Economy in Fuel, 

A saving of nearly one- third of the coal consum» 
cd in London may be made by the following easy 
means : — Let the coal ashes, which are usually 
thrown into the dust bin, be preserved in a corner 
of the coal hole, and make your servants io add to 
them from your coal heap, an equal part of the 
■small coal or slack, which 'is too small to be retain- 
ed in the grate, and pour a smail quantity of water 
U])on the mixture. When you make up your fire, 
place a few round coals in ft»ont and throw some of 
this mixture behind ; it saves the trouble of sifting 



^l& DOMESTIC ECONOMY, 

your ashes, gives a warm and pleasant fire, and a 
very small j>art only will remain unburnt, 

406. Another Method. 

In managing your fires during the day, first lay 
on a shovel-full of the dust and ashes from under the 
grate, then a few coals, more ashes, and afterwards 
a few more <:oals, and thus proceed till your grate is 
properly filled, placing a few round coals in front. 
You will find that the ash^s retain the heat better 
than coals alone ; you will have less smoke, a plea- 
sant fire, and a very little waste left at night. 

407. Economy in Tinder* 

The very high price of paper, at present, renders 
the saving of even the smallest quantity of linen or 
cotton rags of consequence, as they sell very dear; 
trifling as it may be thought, yet it will be found 
that a considerable quantity of rags may be saved 
in a family, by using as tinder for lighting matches the 
contents of the common snuifers collected in the 
courseof the evening. 

408. Plate Powder. 

In most of the articles sold as plate powders, under 
a variety of names, there is an injurious mixture of 
quicksilver, which is said sometimes so far to pene- 
trate and render silver brittle, that it will even break 
ivith a fall. Whitening, properly purified from sand, 
applied wet, and rubbed till dry, is one of the easi- 
est, safest, and certainly the cheapest of all plate 
powders ; jewellers and silversmiths, for small arti- 
cles, seldom use any thing else. If, however, the 
plate be boiled a little in water, with an ounce of 
calcined hartshorn in powder toaboutthree pintsot 
water, then drained over the vessel in which it was 
boiled, and afterwards dried by the fire, while some 
soft linen rags are boiled in the liquid till they have 
lyholly imbibed it; these rags will, when dry, not 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 219^ 

only assist to clean the plate, which must afterwards 
be rubbed bright with leather, bui also serve admi- 
rably for cleaning brass locks, finger plates, Sic. 

409. Usefulness of Clivers^ or Goose G?'ass, 

Young geese are very fond of the branches of 
this plant ; the seeds may be used instead of coffee. 
The expressed juice of the stems and leaves, taken 
to the amount of four ounces night and morning, is 
very efficacious in removing many of those cutane- 
ous eruptions, which are called, though improjDcrly^ 
scorbutic : bat it must be continued for several 
weeks. 

410. Important Uses of the Leaves of the Vine. 

From experiments made by Sir James Hall, if 
has been found that the leaves of the vine, dried in 
the shade, make an excellent and extremely whole- 
some tea, though differing in taste and flavour from 
that comm.only used. Besides, also being admirably 
calculated for making vinegar, the prunings of the 
vine, on being bruised and put into a vat or mash- 
ing tub, and boiling water poured on them, in the 
same way as is done with malt, will produce a liquor 
of a fine vinous quality; which, being fermented, 
forms a substitute for beer ; and which, on being 
distilled, produce a good spirit of the nature of 
brandy. 

411. Valuable Properties of Cherry -Tree Gum. 

The gum that exudes from the trunk and branches 
of the cherry-tree is equal to gum-arabic. Hassel- 
quist relates that, during a siege, more than an hun- 
dred men were kept alive for two months nearly, 
without any other sustenance than a little of this 
gupi taken into the mouth sometimes, and suffered 
graviually to dissolve. 

412. Valuable Properties of the Helianthus JlnnuuSj 

or Sun Flo7uer. 

The seeds afford a good eatable oil ; the stalks- 



2.20 BOMESTIC E€(>NOM¥. 

potash, when burned like those of Turkish contb, 
From the large quantity of pith in the stalks,rf)aper 
may be made. ' 

The young- stalks are eaten at Frankfort on the 
Maine as greens ; and the old are used as fire wood. 

4.1 3. Remedies against Fleas, 

Fumigation witbbrimstone,, or the fresh leaves of 
pen ny-rOyal sewed in a bag, and laid in the bed, will 
have the desired effect, 

^14. Fly Water. 

Most of the fly waters, and other preparations 
commonly sold for the destruction of flies, are vari- 
ously disguised poisons, dangerous and even fatal 
to the human species ; such as solutions of mercu- 
ry, arsenic, &;c. mixed with honey or syrup. The 
following ppeparation, however, without endanger- 
ing the lives of children, or other incautious per- 
sons, is not less fatal to flies than even a solution of 
arsenic. Dissolve two drachms of the extract of 
quasia, in half a pint of boiling water; and adding, 
a iictie sugar^ or syrup, pour the n^ixture on plates. 
To this enticing food the flies are extremely partial,, 
and it never fails to destroy them. 

415. To make a lokolesome Food of Cashew J^uts. 

Cashew nuts may be prepared as food, by blanch- 
ing them with hot water to wash off the caustic oil, 
or roasting them in a pot like coffee,, but care must 
be taken to avoid the smoke, which is very acrid. 
They may also be prepared by sticking them on a 
fork, and burning them at a candle. The oil of the 
shell is abundant, and thoroughly roasts the kernel^ 
within. The kernel of the fresh cashew nut is made- 
into an emulsion, like almonds, and universally us-, 
cd in the West Indies. 

4'16. Econotni/ in Candles, 

In such candlesticks as are not made to slide, the 
candles are frequently permitted to buru in the 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 221 

socket to great waste, and to the injury of the 
candlestick ; this may be prevented by taking. out 
early the short piece of candle, placing it betwixt 
three common pins stuck in an old cork, and put- 
ting the cork in the candlestick. 

Or rather give a penny for that ingenious utensil, 
a save-all. It is at least as cheap, and prevents the 
risk of setting fire to the house. 

417. Curious small Cakes of Incense for perfuming 

JlpartmentSo 

Take equal quantities of lignum rhodium, and 
anise, in powder, with a little powder of dried. Sej 
ville orange peel, and the same of gum benzoin, or 
benjamin, and beat all together in a marble mortar. 
Then, adding some gum dragon, or tragacanth, dis- 
solved in rose-water, put in a little civet; beat the 
whole again together, make up this mixture into 
small cakes, and place them on paper to dry. One 
of these cakes being burnt in the largest apartment, 
will dilTuse a most agreeable odour through the 
whole room. 

418. To prevent the disagreeable Smell arising from. 

House Drains, 

As the diffusion of this noxious matter, within 
our dwellings, tends to produce disease and mortal- 
ity, it cannot be too generally known that a cheap 
and simple apparatus has been contrived for carry- 
ing off the waste water, &c. of sinks, and which at 
the same time prevents the possibility of any air re- 
turning back into the house from thence, or from 
any drain which may be connected with it. . It is 
known by the name of a sti?ik trap, and may be had 
at any of the ironmongers. 

419. Polished Tea Urns preferable to varnished 

ones, 

Folished tea urns may be kept boiling with a- 



22^ " DOMESTIC ECO^'OftFl^i 

much less expense of spirits of wine than such as 
are varnished; and the cleaner and brighter the 
dishes, and covers for dishes, which are used for 
bringing victuals to table,, and for keeping it hotj. 
the more effectual will they answer that purpose. 

420. Management of Razor Straps, 

Most razor straps are spoiled by being left too dry ;. 
a drop or two of sweet oil, frequently added to the 
strap, would remedy this : and, after using the strap, 
passing the razor on the inside of a warm hand, 
gives the smoothest and finest edge; putting the 
razor in warm water makes it cut very keen, and 
perhaps nothing ma]<«s a better razor strap than 
crocus martis, with a little sweet oil rubbed well on 
leather with a glass bottle*. 

421. Essence of Soap for Shav ing^or washing HUrids^^ 

Take a pound and a half of fine white soap in- 
thin slices, and add thereto two ounces of salt of 
tartar ; mix them well together, and put this mixture 
into one quart of spirits of wine^ in a bottle which, 
will hold double the quantity of the ingredients ; tie 
a bladder over the mouth of the bottle, and prick a 
pin through the bladder; set it to digest in a gentle 
heat, and shake the contents from time to time, tak- 
ing care to take out the pin at such times to. allow 
passage for the air from within ; when the soap is 
dissolved, filter the liquor through paper, to free it 
ijrom impurities ; then scent it with a little bergamot 
©r essence of lemon. It will have the appearance of 
fine oil, and a small quantity will lather with water 
like soap, and is much superior in use for washing 
or shaving. 

122.. Composition for Shaving, without the Use of 
Razor, Soap, or Water, 

Mix one pint and a half of clear lime water, two 
ounces of guui-arabicj half an ounce of isinglass; aa. 



DOMESTIC ECONOMr. 223 

eighth of an ounce of cochineal, a quarter of an", 
ounce of turmeric-root (made into powder), an 
eighth of an ounce of salt of tartar, and an eighth 
of an ounce of cream of tartar, together; boil them : 
for one hour at least (stirring up the mixture during 
the whole time of boiling, and be careful not to let 
it boil over) clear it through a sieve ; then add two 
pounds and a half of pumice-stone, finely pulveriz- 
ed ; mix the whole together, with the hands, into 
one cake, by the assistance of the white of two eggs, 
well stirred up. . Then divide the cake, so made, in- 
to twelve smaller cakes ; dry them in the open air 
for three days ; put them into an oven of moderate 
heat, for twenty-four hours, when they will be com- 
pletely dry and fit for use. Apply them with a 
gcnde friction to the beard, and they will produce 
the complete effect of shaving, by rubbing off the- 
hair. 

423. To prevent Accidents from leavting a Poker m. 

the Ftre» 

The following invention is equally simple and 
secure. Immediately above that square part of the 
poker, by blacksmiths called the bit, let a small 
cross of iron, about an inch and a half each way, be 
welded in. 

The good consequences of tiiis simple contrivance 
will be — 1st. If the poker, by the fire giving way, 
should slip out, it will probably catch on the edge 
of the fender. 

2d. If it should not, it cannot injure the hearth or 
carpet, as the hot part of the poker will be borne 
up some inches. 

And 3d. The poker cannot be run into the fire 
further than the bit, which, in regard to a polished 
poker, is also of some consequence. 

424. Economical mode of cutting Gauliflower* 
instead of cutting offjhe whole head- of a cauli- 



1K)MESTIC ECONOMr 



flower, leave a part on, of the size of a goos^berry^ 
and all the leaves : second, and even third heads 
will be formed, and thus they may be eaten for two^ 
or three months ; when, at present, by cutting the ■■ 
head completely off, the bed of cauliflowers are gone 
in two or three weeks. They should be planted in 
o;ood moist ground, and treated in the same manner 
as celery. 

425. Substitute for Milk or Crearm . 

Where cream or milk cannot be got, jt is an ex- 
cellent substitute to beat up the whole of a fresh 
egg, in a bason, and then gradually to pour. boiling 
tea over it, to prevent its curdling. It is difficult, 
from the taste, to distinguish the composition from 
tea and rich cream. This might be, of gi-eat use at 
sea, as eggs may be preserved fresh in various 
ways..,. 

426. J^ecessary Hints to those who use Copper Ves.?- 

sels for culinary Purposes, 

In domestic economy the necessity of keeping,, 
copper vessels always clean is generally acknow- 
ledged ; but it may not perhaps be so generally 
known, that fat and oily substances, and vegetable 
acids, do not attack copper while hot : and, there- 
fore, that if no liquid be ever suffered to grow cold 
in copper vessels, those utensils may be used for. 
every culinary purpose, with perfect safety. 

Dr. Johnstone relates the shocking case of three 
men who died, after excruciating sufferings, in con- 
sequence of eating some victuals prepared in an un- 
clean copper on board the Cyclops frigate.— Thirty 
ty-three other men became ill, and were put upon 
the sick-list, at the same time, and from the same 
cause. 

Dr. Pcrcival gives an account of a young lady 
who amused herself, while her hair was' dressings 
with eating samphire pickle impregnated with cop= 



J0OUE5TIC EGONOMVi ^5^ 

per. She soon complained of pain in the stomach, 
and in five days vomiting commenced, which was 
incessant for two days. After this her stomach be- 
came prodigiously distended; and in nine days 
after eating the pickle, death relieved her from her 
sullerings, 

427. To prevent Lamps from heing pernicious to 
Asthmatic Pcrsoixs, or others, liable to Complaints 
of the Chest, 

Let a sponge, three or four inches in diameter, be 
moistened with pure water, and in that state be sus- 
pended by a string or wire, exactly over the flame 
of the lamp, at the distance of a few inches; this 
substance will absorb all the smoke emitted during 
the evening, or night, after which it should be rins- 
ed in warm water, by which means it will be again 
rendered fit for use. 

428. To make economical Wicks for Lamps. 
AVhen using a lamp with a flat wick, if you take 

a piece of clean cotton stocking, it will answer the 
purpose as well as the cotton wicks which are sold 
in the shops. 

429. Useful Properties of Celandine^ 

The juioe of this plant cures tetters and ring- 
worms, destroys warts, and cures the itch. 

430*. Econorriical Use of Roots of Trees, 

In many parts of England and Scotland, trees are 
cut down above the surface of the earth, leaving 
the stumps an incumbrance to the ground, when 
they might be rooted up to advantage, if used in the 
followini^ manner: — Di^r out these butt ends, or 
stumps, and with a common augre, bore a cioie m 
their centre, about six or nine inches deep, into 
which put a charge of powder of three or four mch- 
es j then fill up the space above it by an iron scr^w 



T26^ r>aMESTrc ECOxOxMY.- 

of the same dimensions, and put a quick match, o^' 
about eighteen inches long, into the hollow of the 
screw, and set fire thereto, and retire ; the explosion, 
will' split the log or stump into various pieces, in one 
of which the screw will be fou«d retained. Much 
valuable hel may be thus obtained from the knotty 
roots of oaks, elms, yew trees. Sic, 

The screws, and other implements for this pur- 
pose, may be seen at the Society of\Arts, in the A^- 
del phi, or may be purchased fronj Mr. Knight, iron- 
monger, Foster-Lane, Cheapside. 

431 . Application of the Roots of Fir- Trees or Pines* 

The roots or butt-ends of fir-tree3j split in the 
manner above-mentioned, will yield a considerable 
quantity of pitch and tar, by the following manage= 
ment : — Make a hole in the earth, a few inches deep, 
on the side of a hill, in which lay a coat of clay, and 
therein pile th€ fir roots, split as above, and cut to 
the length of not more than three feet, upon bars of 
iron laid above the hole, and the logs piled up at 
the distance of half an inch from each other, and- 
each row laid cross-way of the other, to any height 
required, fire is to be set to the top of the pile, and 
as^ it consumes the wood, tbe pitch, tar, and rosin,, 
contained in the v»rood, melt and run from it into the 
hole below, and from thence by a small trench into 
a large hole, made several feet deep in the ground, 
to receive these products, 

432. Useful Properties of Red Spurge. 

Warts or corns anointed with the juice of this 
plant, presently disappear. A drop of it put into the 
hollow of a decayed ajid aching tooth, destroys the- J 
merve, and consequently removes the pain. Some 
people rub it behind the ears that it may blistcrj. 
aiidbj that means give relief. 



DRAWING. 22? 

433. Paste or Food for Singing Birds, superior to the 
German Paste in common Use, 

Well mix, or knead together, three pounds of spill 
peas, ground or beat to flour, one pound and a haJf 
each of fine crumbs of bread and coarse sugar, the 
fresh yolks of six raw eggs, and six ounces of unsalt- 
ed butter. Put about a third part of the mixture, at 
a time, in a -frying pan, over a gentle fire, and contin- 
ually stir it till it be a little browned, but b)^ no means 
burnt. When the other two parts are thus done, and 
all are become cold, add to the entire quantity six 
ounces of maw seed, with six pounds of good bruised 
hemp seeds separated from the husks. Mix the 
whole well together, and it will be found an excel- 
lent food for thrushes, red robins, larks, linnets, ca- 
nary birds, finches of the different sorts, and most 
other singing birds, admirably preserving them in 
song and feather* 



CHAPTER XVII. 
DPJlWmG. 



"434. To make Transparent Paper for Drawing t 

Tracing paper is readily made by taking a sheet 
x>f very thin silk, or other paper, and rubbing it over 
gently with some soft substance, filled with a mix- 
ture of equal parts of drying oil, and oil of turpen- 
tine, which, being suspended and dried, will be 
fit for use in a few days ; or it may be had at any 
of the shops. Lay this transparent material on the 
•print or drawing to be transferred, and, with a sharp 
black lead pencil, trace the outlines exactly as they 



228 DKAWIN«. 

appear through the paper. If more permanent of 
stronger lines are wished, ink mixed with <5x-gall 
will be necessary to make it adhere to the oiled sur- 
face. 

435. To Trace Drawings of Prints against Vie 

Light, » 

There are two methods: one , to lay the print, 
&;c. flat against a pane of glass, with thin paper over 
it, when the lines appearing through it are to be fol- 
lowed by the lead : the other is more convenient, 
and consists of a frame inclosing a square of glass, 
supported by legs, on which the paper is laid as 
before, and a candle placed behind the glass. A pen 
and ink may be used in this manner, but they can- 
not in the former instance. 

43G, Method of using Tracing Paper, 

Take a piece of the size required, and rub il 
equally over, on one side, with black lead, reduced 
to a powder, till the surface will not readily soil a 
finger; then lay apiece of white paper with the 
leaded side of this paper next to it, under the print ; 
and securing them firmly together with pins at the 
corners, proceed to take the outlines with a blunt 
point, and some degree of pressure, which will 
-iransfer the lead to the clean paper,precisely in the 
direction the point passed over the print; this may 
Jje corrected with the black lead pencil, and cleans- 
ed of any soil by the crumbs of stale bread. 

437. Tocopy Drawings, ^c, with fixed Materials. 

Rub a thin piece of paper thoroughly and equal- 
ly with fresh butter, and after well drying it by y 
lire*, cover it with black lead, or with carmine, 
lamp-black, or blue bice, on the other side whick 
received the butter. When the operation has so far 
succeeded, as that the colour will not adhere to any 
substance passed over it, lay the coloured surfacf^ 



I^JRAWING, 229 

ion while paper, the print on it, and trace the sub- 
ject through with a point as mentioned in the fore- 
going receipt. 

438. To transfer any Impression with Vermillion, 

Mix the colour with linseed oil in a state sulfi- 
cicntly fluid to flow from .the point of a pen, with 
which let every line of the print be accurately trac- 
ed ; then wet the back of it, and, turning the face 
downwards on clean white dry paper, place the 
other paper on the back, and gently rub or press it 
till it may be supposed the red lines are completely 
transferred to the paper from the print. 

439. Transparent Paper, 

Wet some fine paper with a feather on both sides 
"with a thin layer of rosin, dissolved in spirits of 
wine. It will then serve to put over any thing you 
wish to take off. 

440. Method of copying a Design, 

Wash the surface of a flat plate of glass with a 
solution of gum-arabic, in water, to which a small 
quantity of vinegar has been added; or you may 
instead thereof, moisten the surface only with white 
of egg : when dry, lay the under side of the glass, 
which has not been moistened, on the design you 
want to copy, and with a soft red lead pencil trace the 
whole that you may wish for. Then, having a 
sheet of white paper properly moistened, lay it up- 
on your pencil drawing, and pressing it on the glass ; 
take oflT the paper before the egg liquor is re-dis- 
solved, and you will have your design transferred 
upon the paper from the glass. 

441. To preserve Pencil and Chalk Drazvings, 

1st. Get a pan, or tub, suflicientiy spacious to 
admit the drawing horizontally ; fill it with clean 
ivatcr, and run the thawing through in that direc- 

u 



230 DRAWij:<r. 

tion ; then lay it on something flat to dry. This 
will take off the loose lead. 

2dly. Fill the ^me vessel a second time, with 
rather more than one-third new milk, and the re- 
inaining part clean water, through which run the 
drawing again horizontally, and leave it to dry as 
before. 

Do not lay the drawing, wiiile wet, on any col- 
oured wood, such as mahogany, &:c. which will 
slain the paper in streaks. 

Should milk be scarce, you may mix a Tittle (in 
the proportions above-mentioned,) in a teacup, and 
venture to run the drawing lightly over with a cam- 
el-hair pencil, the water having already taken oiF 
the superfluous lead, and, in some degree, fixed 
the other : but be particularly light with the pencil, 
never touching the drawing twice in the same place>. 

442. Method of setting Pencil Drawings, 

A solution of alum in water, in which the draw- 
ing is to be dipped (not washed on with a brush, as 
it would smear) will answer the purpose extremely 
well. 

443. Wash for preserving Drawings, made with a 
JBlack Lead Pencil^ or with Hard Black Chalk, 

A thin wash of isinglass will fix either black lead 
or hard black chalk, &;c. as to prevent their rubbing 
out ; or the same effect may be produced by the 
simple application of skimmed milk. The best 
way of using the latter, is, to lay the drawing flat 
upon the surface of the milk ; and then, taking it 
up expeditiously, to hang it by one corner till it 
jdrains and dries. The milk must be perfectly free 
fi:om cream, or it will grease the paper. 

444. Easy Method of taking off a perfect Copy of a 
Print or Drawing, 

Take a piece of clear lantern horn ; lay it upo;^ 



DRAWING. 2S1 

the print or picture you wish to take off; then, witli 
a crow-quill dipped in Indian ink, draw every stroke 
of the outline u[)on the horn ; when dry, breathe 
upon that side of the horn whereon you made your 
draught, three or four times, and place it directly 
on a damp piece of clean white paper, with the 
drawn ?ide downwards ; then pressing it hard witli 
the palm of your ham], t-lie drawing will stick to 
your paper, and the horn come off cleaiv 

445. To make a Drawing Desk or Frame, 

Cause a frame to be made of a reasonable s^i^ze, 
so that a pretty large piece of crown glass may rest 
upon it, supported by a ledge at the bottom part^ 
tvhere, by two hinges, it may be fastened to a draw- 
er of the same dimension, which may be divided 
to serve for pen, ink, and paper, and other small 
utensils, or instruments for drawing. To the top 
of the frame fix two stays, by which the frame may 
be raised higher or lower, as occasion may require. 

The manner of using the frame is thus : lay the 
print or drawing you intend to copy on the glass, 
and fasten a sheet or piece of fine white paper, witli 
some wafers or paste, upon it ; if it be ia the day- 
time, place the back, after you have raised the 
frame to a proper height, against the window, but 
if night, put a lamp behind it, and you will see eve- 
ry stroke of the print or drawing, which, with your 
pen, you may copy very accurately, and fiaisli 
according to the manner you think proper; if it be 
a solid piece which you intend to copy, then place 
it behind the desk, and having fastened your paper 
in the frame, put the lamp so as to produce a strong 
shade on the object you have before you to draw, 
and you will plainly see to trace the shape with yout" 
pen, or black lead pencil ; after which, shade it in 
the manner it appeal's to you without the desko^ 



232 jaROWxrNGo.. 

CFJAP. XVIIU 
mOWNING, 



446. Method of rendering Assistance to Persons ■k<k.-\ 
Danger oj Drowning, 

This desirable object appears attainable by the 
proper use of a man's hat and jx)cket handkerchief, 
(which being all the apparatus necessary) is to be 
used thus : Spread the handkerchief on the ground, 
and place a hat, v\?ith the brim downwards, on the- 
middle of the handkerchief; and then tie the hand^ 
kerchief round the hat as you would tie up a bun- 
41e, keeping the knots as near the centre of the 
crown as may be. Now, by seizing the knots in 
one hand, and keeping the opening of the hat up- 
wards, a person, without knowing how to swim, 
may, fearlessly, plunge into the water with what 
may be necessary to save the life of a feilow-crea-' 
Uire. 

If a person should fall out of a boat, or the boat 
upsel by going foul of a cable, &.c. or should he fait 
off the quays, or indeed fall into any water from 
which he could, tjot extricate himself, but must 
wiiit some little tim« for assistance, had he pres- 
ence of mind enough to whip off his hat, and hold it 
by the brim, placing his fingers within-side the 
crown, and hold it so, (top downwards) he would 
be able, by this method, to keep his mouth well a- 
bove water till assistance slioukl reach him. It of- 
ten happens that danger is descried long before 
we are involved in the peril, and time enough to 
prepare the above method ; and a courageous per- 
son would, in seven instances out of ten, apply to 
them with success ; and travellers, m fording riv- 
ers at unknown fords, or where shallows are deceit- 



DYEING. 233 

M, might make use of these methods with advant- 
age. 

447. Method of recovering Rer sons apparently drown- 
ed, as recommended by the Humane Society, 

Let those wlio first discover an unfortunate object 
in this situation remove it to some house near, pluc^ 
it by the fire, and begin by rubbing it with salt, vo- 
latiles, &LC, and warm flannels, the head a little ele- 
vated ; never attempting giving any thing by the 
mouth till signs of recovery strongly appear, and 
let the person be kept from a crowd of people a- 
round him. The idea that the stomach is full of 
water, and thus obviates recovery, is very errone- 
ous and prejudicial, as it is now fully and clearly 
established, that the respiration being impeded is 
the sole cause of the suspension of life, and which 
being restored, the vital functions soon recover 
their tone ; and men are frequently lost from the 
absurd custom of rolling on casks, lifting the feet 
over the shoulders, and the head falling on tha- 
ground. 



CHAPTER XIX., 
DYEIM^. 



448. To make a Liquid for staining Bone or JVoed' 
of different Colours* 

Take strong, white wine vinegar in a glass ves- 
sel,, and put to it filings of copper, with some Ro- 
man vitriol, roach alum, and verdigris, and leave 
it thus infused for seven days ; then boil it in some 
vessel, and by putting into it bone, ivory, or wood, 
it will penetrate, and give it a green colour. If any, 

u2 



234 DfEING. 

Other colour is required, as red, blue, or yellow, puf 
Brazil wood, indigo, French berries, or any other 
such colours, to infuse in the vinegar, with a little- 
roach alum. 

449. Art of dyeing or straining Leather Gloves, to 
resemble, the beautiful York Tan^ Limerick Dye, 

These diiferent pleasing hues of yellow, brown^ 
or tan colour, are readily imparted to leather gloves^ 
by the following simple process : Steep saffron in 
boiling hot soft water for about twelve hours ;. then, 
having slightly sewed up the tops of the gloves, to 
prevent the dye from staining the insides, wet them 
over with a sponge or soft brush dipped into the 
liquid. The quantity of saffron, as well as of wa- 
ter, will of course depend on how much dye may 
be wanted ; and their relative pro})ortions, on the 
depth of colour required. A common teacup ivilL 
contain sufficient in quantity for a single pair of 
gloves. 

450. To stain Wood a fine Blacks 

Drop a little oil of vitriol into a small quantity of 
"vvatcr, rub the same on your wood, then hold it to 
the fire until it becomes a fine black, and, whea 
polished, it will be exceedingly beautiful. 

451. To stain Wood a beautiful Red or Mahoganyr 

Colour,' 

Place a square piece of plane-tree v/ood, a line in 
thickness, into pounded dragon's blood, from the 
Canaries, mixed with oil of turpentine, over the 
fire, in a glass vessel, the wood will slowly assume 
the colour, even before the spirit has volatilised. 
After more than an hour take the vessel from the 
fire, and let it stand the whole night, when the 
wood will appear of a mahogany colour, not merely 
on the surface, but also in the interior parts* T^e 



DTEI.NG. i23^ 

denser fibres will be somewhat less coloured; but 
this, instead of injuring the beauty of the wood, will 
rather add to it. The red dye can be made strong- 
er or weaker, by taking a greater or less quantity of 
dragon^s blood, and by a greater or less degree of 
digestion and boiling. The wood of the plane- 
tj'ee is best for this )3iJrpose, because it can be ea- 
sily sawn and polished ; because it has a white col- 
our; is neither too hard nor too soft ; has beautiful 
Avhite spots with veins that cross each other; and 
because artists, who make inlaid works, have long, 
attempted to colour it by staining. The wood, 
when stained, can very easily be freed from the 
dragon's blood adhering to it, by means of rectified 
spirits of wine. The spirit of turpentine makes tht) 
wood more compact, and renders it more suscepti- 
ble of a finepolish.- 

452. To make Js^'ankeen Dye, 

Boil equal parts of arn.otto and common potash,, 
in water, till the whole are dissolved. This will 
produce the^«/e reddish buff so much in use, and 
sold under tlie name of Nank&en Dye, 

453. To dye Cotton a fine Buff Colour. 

Let the twist or yarn be boiled in pure water, ta^ 
cleanse it ; then wring it, run it through a dilute so- 
lution of iron in the vegetable acid, v/hich printers 
call iron liquor -^ WTing, and run it through lime wa- 
ter, to raise it ; wring it again, and ruii it through 
a solution of starch and water; then wring it once 
more, and dry, wind, warp, and weave it for use. 

454. Substitute for Galls in Dyeing and also in mak- 

ing Ink, 

The excrescences on the roots of young oaks 
Biay be used with advantage as a substitute for galls. 
Oak dust has been used ia this country instead of 



236 DYEING. 

galls, to produce a black dye : so also has a strong 
decoction of logwood, copperas, and gum arable. 

455. Easy Method of Dyeing Yellow or Green* 

The plant called weld, or dyer's weed, affords a 
most beautiful yellow dye for cotton, w-oolen, mo- 
hair, silk, andjinen, and is that which is most com- 
monly used by dyers for that purpose, as it gives 
the brightest dye.. Blue cloths dipped in a decoc- 
tion of it become green. The yellow colour of the 
paint, called Dutch pink, is got from this plant ; the 
tinging qua4ity resides in the stems and branches, 
and it is cultivated in sandy soils, becau&e rich soils 
are apt to lessen its value, by making the stalk hol- 
low.. 

456. To stain Wood green. 

Dissolve verdigris in vinegar, or crystals ofver^ 
digris in water; and, with the hot solution, brush, 
over the wood till it be duly stained. 

457. To stain Horn to imitate Tortoise Shell, 

The horn to be stained must first be pressed into 
proper plates or scales, or other flat form. The 
following mixture must then be used :— ' 

Take of quicklime two parts, of litharge one, and- 
temper them to the consistence of a soft paste with, 
soap lye. Put this paste over all the parts of the 
horn, except such as are proper to be left transpar- 
ent, in order to the greater resemblance of the tor- 
toise shell. The horn must then remain thus cov- 
ered with the paste till it be thoroughly dry : when, 
the paste being brushed off, the horn will be found 
partly opake and partly transparent in th<e manner- 
of tortoise shell ; and when put over a foil, will be 
scarcely distinguishable from it. It requires some 
degree of fancy and judgment to dispose of the pa^ite 
in such a manner as to form a variety of transpar- 
ent parts, of different magnitude and figurcj to look 



DfEINO. '231 

like nature. This may be done by mixing whiten- 
ing with some of the paste to weaken its operation 
in particular places, by which s}>ots of a reddish 
brown will be produced; that if properly inter- 
spersed, especially on the edges of the dark parts, 
will greatly increase as well the beauty of the work 
as its similitude to the real tortoise shell. 

458. Substitute for Verdigris, in dyeing Black, 

Saturate two pounds of vitriol of copper with a 
strong alkaline salt, (Americaf^ potashes, when ta 
be procured, are recommended.) The vitriol will 
make about an equal weight of dry ashes. Both 
the vitriol and the ashes are to be previously dis* 
solved apart. When this proportion is mixed, well 
stirred, and suffered to stand a few hours, a precipi- 
tate will subside. Upon adding a few drops of the 
solution of ashes, if the mixture be saturated, the- 
water on the top of the vessel will' remain colour- 
less ; but if not, a blue colour will be produced, 
upon which add more ashes ; there is no danger in 
being a little over saturated with ashes. Take carei 
to add the solution of ashes to that of vitriol by a 
little at a time, otherwise the- eHervescence which 
ensues will cause them to overflow the vessel : these 
four pounds of vitriol of copper and ashes will be 
equal to about the same weight of verdigris, and 
should be added to the other liquors of the dye at 
different times, as is usual with verdigris. 

The black, thus dyed, will be perfectly innocent 
to the goods, rather tending to keep them soft thaa 
corrode them, particularly hats, in which there is 
the greatest consumption of verdigris. 

For those who are constantly using verdigris, ife 
would be proper to have a vessel always at hand, 
containing a saturated solution of vitriol of copper, 
and another with a saturated solution of ashes, rea- 
dy to mix as they arc wanted ; for they do not an.- 
8wcr so well if kept lon^^. 



23S CYEmG-a 

439. Another Substitute for Verdigris, 

Take one part of the very best sal-ammoniac, one 
quarter part of oil of vitriol, one half part of aqua- 
fortis, one quarter part of mnriatic aeid, and twelve 
parts of cold spring water, which, when thoroughly 
mixed together, is to be put ino sheets of coppei-, 
of any size, turned up at the edges about half an 
inch all the way round, to prevent the mixture from 
running off.. The mixture is then to be stirred well 
up every two or three hours,- until the same is dis- 
covered to be of a green or bluish cast or body. The 
mixture must then remain a few hours, until it is 
settled,, and the water at top appears perfectly 
clear, which will happen sooner or later, itdepend- 
ing upon the temperature of the atmosphere. The 
water must then be carefully poured off, leaving the 
sediment at the bottom, ft must be then put into 
any vessel of sufficient size, and if it is thoroughly 
prepared, the paint will bear washing in water to 
free it from dirt, &:c. after which washing, the 
water must be poured from the paint. The paint 
may then be taken and prepared in lumps, by put- 
ting the same into moulds of any size that may be 
convenient, observing aftierwards to place the same 
in a mild warm room. When it is quite dry, it may 
be ground into powder witH ease, or remain in the 
lumps, as may be convenient, it is then fit for use. 

Remark, — This preparation is much clearer than 
verdigris made by stratifying copper-plates, or by 
soiutioawith the impure vinegars which pay no 
duty* . 



PLEASING EXPIiRIMEK'TSo 239 

CHAPTER XX. 
PLEASmO EXPERIMENTS. 



460. To produce Gas Light, on a small Scale, 

Take an ordinary tobacco-pipe, and nearly fill 
the bowl with small coals, and stop the mouth of the 
bowl with any suitable luting, as pipe clay, or the 
mixture of sand and common clay, or, as clay is apt 
to shrink, of sand and beer, and place the bowl in 
a fire between the bars of a grate, so that the pipe 
4Tiay stand nearly perpendicular. In a few minutes, 
if the luting is good, the gas will begin to escape 
from the orifice of the pipe, when, if a piece of 
lighted paper or candle be applied, it will take fire 
and burn for several minutes with an intense light. 
When the light goes out, a residum of useful pro- 
ducts will be found in the bowl. 

461. The Phosphoric Pencil 

Is a small bit of phosphorus, put into a quill, and 
kept in a phial, in water ; when you write, dip 
your pencil often in the water, to prevent its taking 
fire. 

462. The Fire Bottle. 

Take as much unslacked lime as will We on the 
point of a small penknife, put it into a short botde, 
then put in about half a drachm of phosphorus, and 
shake it gendy until it takes fire ; then blow gently 
into the botde until it has done crackling or friz- 
ing, and it will be fit for use. 

463. To make the Phosphoric Match Bottle. 
These battles may be prepared by mixing one 



540 tLEASlSTG EXPERIMENTS'. 

part of flower of sulphur with eight of phosphorus. 
This requires caution, and should afterwards be 
handled with great care, lest any part of the mix- 
ture get under the finger nails, a small portion of 
which might occasion great inconvenience.. When 
used to procure a light, a very minute quantity is 
taken out of the bottle on the poin^ of the match, 
and rubbed upon cork or wood, which produces an 
immediate flame. 

464. To make an Illuminated or Phosphoric BoUle^ 
zohich will preserve its luight for several Months, 

By putting a pi^ce of phosphorus, the size of a 
pea, into a-phial, and adding boiling oil until the 
bottle is a third full, a luminous bottle is formed ; 
for, on taking out the cork, to admit atmospheric 
air, the empty space in the phial will become lum- 
inous. 

Whenever the stopper is taken out in the night, 
sufficient light will be evolved, to shew the hour 
upon a vv^atch ; and if care be taken to keep it, in 
general, well closed, it will preserve its illumina- 
tive power for several months. 

465. To take Impressions on Paper from Designs 

made on Stone', 

The stone should be close grained, and the draw- 
ing or writing should be made with a pen dipped in 
ink, formed of a solution of lac, in leys of pure so- 
da, to which shotild be added «ome soap and lamp- 
Tjlack for colouring ; leave it to harden for a few 
days ; then take impressions in the 'following man- 
ner : dip tbe surface in water, then dab it with 
printer's ink, and printer's balls ; the ink sticks to 
the design, and not to the stone, and the impression 
may be taken with wet paper by means of a rolling 
or screw-press, in the ordinary manner. Several 
hundred copies may be taken from the same design 
in this simple manner. 



TLEASING EXPERIMENTS. 241 

i66, A cheap and simple process for Painting on 
Glass, sufficient for the Purpose of making a Magic 
Lanthorn, 

Take good clear rosin, any quantity, melt it in an 
iron pot : when melted entirely, let it cool a little, 
and, before it begins to harden, pour in oil of tur- 
pentine sufficient to keep it liquid when cold. In or- 
der to paint with it, let it be used with colours 
ground with oil, such as are commonly sold in co- 
lour shops. 

467. To make Transparent Screens for the Exhibi' 

tion of the Phantasmagoria. 
Transparent screens are to be prepared by 
spreading white wax, dissolved in spirits of wine or 
oil of turpentine over thin muslin. A screen so pre- 
pared will roll up without injury. A clearer screen 
may be produced by having the muslin always 
strained upon a rectangular frame, and prepared 
with turpentine instead of wax. Such a screen is 
not always convenient, and it cannot be rolled with- 
out cracking, and becoming in a short time useless. 
Therefore, nothing can be better for the purpose 
than the former. 

468. Thunder Powder, 

Take separately, three parts of good dry salt- 
petre, two parts of dry salt of tartar, and pound 
them well together in a mortar; then add thereto 
one part, or rather moi'e, of flower of brimstone, and 
lake care to pound and mix the whole perfectly to- 
gether : put this composition into a bottle with a 
glass stopper, for use. 

Put about two drachms of this mixture in an iron 
spoon, over a moderate fire, but 4iot in the flame ; in 
a short time it will melt, and go oflf with an explo- 
s'on like thunder or a loaded cannon. 



:242 i'ARRIERy- 

CHAPTER XXI. 
FARRIERY, 



^Q9, A Receipt for the Cholic in a Horse, 

One table-spoonful of ginger beat and sifted, two 
or three table spoonfuls of flower of mustard, a gill 
of gin, and a quart of warm ale, mix them together, 
and give them in a hoi*n. In an hour or two walk the 
horse out, and repeat it the following day ; care 
should be taken that the horse drinks nothing but 
warmed water for two or three days after. 

470. Distemper in Dogs, 

Dr. Blaine has described the disease, called the 
Distemper in Dogs, with accuracy, and his medi- 
cines in general, are successful: but a gentleman 
had adnjinistered Dr. Blaine's medicines to a fa- 
vourite pointer, in the disease called The Disteni' 
per, but with no avail ; the unvai ying symptoms 
had come on, when the poor animal crawled into 
the field, and fell among some grass, attempting, 
but in vain, to eat it. The gentleman followed this 
suggestion of nature, and ordered a handful of grass 
to be cut in shreds of about half an inch long, and 
•when mixed with butter, to be put down the ani- 
mal's throat ; the dose was repeated three times in 
every twenty-four hours, and a visible amendment 
almost immediately took place, which terminated in 
recovery. 

471. To know whether a Dog is mad or not. 

Dogs suspected of being mad are frequently kill- 
ed, leaving persons bitten in a dreadful uncertainty, 
whether the dogs were or were not really mad ; the 



'•'>/• 



FIRE, 243 

tbllovving experiment has been supposed conclusive 
on this head : — rub the mouth, teeth, and gums of 
the dead dog, if free from blood, with a little roast 
or boiled meat, and offer this tneat, so rubbed, to 
another dog, who will eat it without reluctance if 
the dead dog was not mad, but will refuse it, and 
run away howling from it, if the dead dog was really 
mad. It may be further satisfaction to the parties 
concerned, to keep the dog tied up for some daySj 
if he eats the meat so prepared^ 



CHAPTER XXII 
FIRE. 



472. Method of extingxdshing Fires in Chimniei>\ 

Stop with a wet blanket the upper orifice of the 
tunnel ; but the surest and readiest method is to 
apply the blanket either to the throat of the chini- 
ney, or over the whole front of the fire-place. It 
there happens to be a chimney board or a register, 
nothing can be so efiectual as to apply them im- 
mediately : and having by that means stopped the 
draught of air from below, the burning soot will be 
put out as readily and as completely as a candle is 
put out by an extinguisher, which acts exactly upoiA 
the same principle. 

473. To extricate Horses from Fire» 

If the harness be thrown over a draught, or the 
saddle placed on the back of a saddle horse, they 
may be led out of the stable as easily as on com» 
Qion occasions. Should there be time to substitute 



.^. 



244 PiRE. 

the bridle for the halter, the difficulty towards sav- 
ing them will be still farther diminished. 

474. Method of rendering all So)'ts of Paper ^ Lin- 

en, and Cotton, less conibnstible» 

This desirable object may be, in some degree, ef- 
fected, by immersing these combustible materials in 
a strong solution of alum water ; and, after drying 
them, repeating this immersion, if necessary. Thus, 
neither the colour, nor the qualitj^ of the paper, will 
be in the least affected, on the contrary, both will 
be improved ; and the result of the experiment may 
be ascertained, by holding a slip of paper, so pro 
pared, over a candle. 

475. To prevent Wood^ Linen^ ^-c, from eatching 

Fire. 

One ounce of sulphur, one ounce of red ochre, 
and six ounces of a solution of co})peras. To pre- 
vent wood from catching fire it is hrst to be covered 
with joiner's glue, over which the powder is spread.- 
This process is to be repeated three or four times 
alter the wood is become dry. In linen and paper, 
water is to be used instead of glue, and the process 
is repeated twice. 

476. 3Icihod to escape from Fire, 

The following simple machine ought always to 
be kept in an up}jer apartment. It is nothing more 
than a shilling or eightcen-penny rope, one end of 
which should always be made fast to something in 
ihe chamber, and at the other end should be a noose 
to let down children or inhrm pei*sons, in case of 
lire. Along the rope there should be several knots, 
10 serve as resting places for the hands and feet of 
the person who drops down by it. No family occu- 
pying high houses should ever be without a contriv- 
ance of this kind. 



riRE. 245 

477. To make Water more efficacious in extinguish- 

ing Fires, 

Throw into a pump, which contains fifty or sixty 
buckets of water, eight or ten pounds of salt or 
pearl ashes, and the water thus impregnated will 
wonderfully accelerate the extinction of the most 
iurious conflagration. Muddy water is better than 
clear, and can be obtained when salt and ashes can- 
not. 

478. To extinguish Fires speedily, 

Much mischief arises from want of a little pre- 
sence of mind on these alarming occasions ; a small 
quantity of water well, and immediately applied, wilf 
frequently obviate great danger. The moment an 
alarm of fire is given, wet some blankets well in a 
bucket of water, and spread them upon the floor of 
the room, where the fire is, and afterwards beat out 
the other flames with a blanket thus wet : two or 
three buckets of water thus used early, will answer 
better than hundreds applied at a later period. 
Linen thus wet will be useful, but will not answer 
so well as woollen. 

479. Hint respecting Women^s and Children'^ s Clothes 

catching Fire, 

The females and children in every family should 
Le particularly told and shewn that flame always 
tends upwards, and consequently, that as long as 
they continue erect or in an upright posture, while 
their clothes are burning, the fire generally begin- 
ning at the lower part of the dress, the flames meet- 
ing additional fuel, as they rise, become more 
powerful in proportion ; whereby the neck and 
iicad, being more exposed than other parts to the 
intense and concentrated beat, must necessarily be 
most injured. In a case of this kind, where the suf- 
ferer happens to be alone, and cannot extinguish 

v2 



24& FtRE. 

the flames by instantly throzoing the clothes over the 
head, and rolling or lying upon them, she may still 
avoid great agony, and saVe her life, by throwing 
herself at full length on the floor, and rolling herself 
iheron. This method may not extinguish the flame, 
but to a certainty will retard its progress, prevent 
fatal injury to the neek and head, and afford oppor- 
tunity for assistance : and it may be more practica- 
ble than the other, to the aged and infirm. A carpet 
or hearth-rug instantly lapped round the head and 
body is almost a certain preventive of danger. (And 
see pp. 120, 121. Chap. xiii. Clothes.) 

480. To stop the Progress of Fire onboard of Ships, 

From the great confusion occasioned by the 
alarm of fire on board a ship, with the ditBculty often . 
of ascertaining the precise spot where it isj ifap- 
pears ahnost impossible to devise any means to pre- 
vent the progress of such an accident when once it 
has got head. , 

The only mean that seems to promise success is 
to convey water to any part of the ship according to 
ihe following method i^-tTo place strong pipes 
through the decks, close to the sides of the vessel ; 
those going to the hold must be cased, to prevent 
their being damaged by moving stores between the 
decks. These may be so distributed that every part 
bietween the decks may be within the reach of a 
stream of water issuing from them. The magazine 
and place where spirits and inflammable stores are 
kept ought to have the greatest number of pipes 
about them, to prevent the fire reaching those parts. 

Streams of water to the parti on fire may be di" 
rected by a lever fixed on the top of the pipe, the 
end of which corresponding with the aperture be- 
low, the same vertical plane will pass through the 
lever and the stream. 

Small engines, such as those used for watermg 



FIRK-ARMS. - 247 

gardens,' will be sufiicient for the purpose. Two 
men only will be required for the service of each, 
pipe, one to supply it, and the other to direct the 
stream. 



CHAPTER XXIiL 
FIRE-ARMS. 

(and the management of GUx\^-POWDER.) 



481. To brown Gun-Barrels, 

After the barrel is finished, to give it a brown co*- 
lour, it is to be rubbed over with aquafortis or spi- 
rit of salt diluted with water, and then to belaid by, 
for a week or more, till a complete coat of rust is 
formed. A little oil is then to be applied, and the 
surface being rubbed dry, it is to be polished by 
means of a hard brush and' a little bees'- wax. 

482. To keep Arms and polishtd Metal from Rust, 

Dissolve one ounce of camphor in two pounds of 
hog^s lard, observing to take off the scum; then 
mix as mucii black lead as will give the mixture an 
iron colour. Fire arms, &c. rubbed over with- this 
mixture, and left with it on twenty-four hours, and^ 
then dried with a linen cloth, will keep clean for 
many months. 

483. To prevent Humidity from being prejudicial to 

Powder Magazines, 

A Prussian officer of rank informed St. Pierre 
that having remarked vapours to be attracted by 
lead; he had employed it for drying the atmosphere 



^0 FlRE-AflM§^ 

of a powder magazine, constructed under ground",- 
in the throat of a bastion, but useless from its humid-- 
ity. He ordered the concave ceiling of the arch to 
be lined with lead, where the gunpowder was de- 
posited in barrels : the vapours of the vault collect- 
ed in great drops ofi the leaden roof, run off m 
streamlets along the sides, and left the gunpowder 
barrels perfectly dry. 

484. To recover damaged Gunpowder, 

The method of tlie powder merchants is this : they 
put part of th^ powder on a sail cloth, to which>they 
add an equal wei-ght of what is really good ; then, 
with a shovely they mingle it well together, dry it in 
the sun, and barrel it up, keeping it in a dry andi 
proper place, 

485. To increase the Force ofGunporvder, 

Dr. Baine says, three ounces of pulverized quick- 
lime being added to one pound of gunpowder, its 
force is augmented one-third';- shake? the whole to- 
gether till the white colour of the lime disappears. 

486.. Method of increasing the Effects of Gunpoxo- 
dcr, and also shewing the J^ecessity of certain Pre-> 
cautions in loading Mr e- Arms,. 

It is a well.known fact, which cannot be too often; 
published, that a musket,.fowling piece, &;c. is very, 
apt to burst if the wadding is not rammed down close 
to the powder.. Hence it is obvious, that in loading 
a screw barrel pistol, care should be taken that the 
cavity for the powder be entirely filled with it, so, 
as to leave no space betw^een the powder and the 
ball. 

If a bomb or shell is only half-filled with gun- 
powder, Jt breaks into a great number of pieces ; 
whereas, if it is quite filled, it merely separates into 
two or three pieces, which are thrown to a very 
great distance* 



FIRE-WOllKS. 249- 

If the trunk of a tree is charged with gunpowder, 
for the purpose of splitting it. and the v/adding is 
rammed down very hard upon the powder, in that 
c;ase the wadding is only driv^en out, and the tree 
i'emains entire ; but if, instead of ramming the wad- 
ding close to the powder, a certain space is left be- 
tween them, the elFects of the powder arc then suqK 
as to tear the tree asunder. 



CHAPTER XXIV. 
FIRB'WORICS. 



487. To make Sky Rockets* 

The charges for sky rockets are made of salt- 
-jpetre four pounds, brimstone one pound, and char- 
coal one pound and a half; or by another direction, 
saltpetre four pounds, brimstone one pound and a 
hrilf, charcoal twelve ounces, and meal powder two 
ounces. These proportions vary again according to 
the size of the rockets ; in rockets of four ounces, 
mealed powder, saltpetre, and charcoal, are used 
in (he proportions of 10, 2, and 1 ; but in very large 
rocii-ets the proportions are, saltpetre four, mealed 
powder and sulphgr one each. When stars are 
wanted, camphor, alcohol, antimony, and other iiv 
grcdients, are required, according as the stars are 
10 be blue, white, &c. In some cases gold and sil- 
\crrain is required, then brass dust, steei dust, saw- 
dust, &;c. enter into the ccmposition ; hence the va- 
rieties may be almost indefinite. With respect to 
colour, sulphur gives a blue, camphor a white or 
pale colour, salt-petre a whitish yellow, sal-ammo- 
niac, a green, antiir.ony a reddish., rosin a copper 



250 GARDENING BOTANY. 

colour. These materials require preparation bl 
they are fit for use ; and before a person can be 
qualified for the business of fire-work making, he 
must understand the method of making the moulds, 
cases, &:c. and be acquainted with the instrumentft^^ 
used in the art, their dimensions and materials, "j 

488. Improv emen t in Fire- Wo rhs. 

Professor Proust has discovered that nitrate af^ 
soda is an economical article in their composition ; 
and that five parts of the nitrate, one of charcoal, and 
one of sulphur, afford a powder which produces a 
iiarae of beautiful reddisn yellow colour. 



CHAPTER XXV. 
GARDENING— BOTANY. 



SECT. I.— MANAGEMENT OF GREEN- 
HOUSE, kQ. 

489. Proper Situation for et Green-house, or Room* 

The aspect of a green-house may be at any point 
from east to west, following the course of the sun ; 
or it may even be a litUe to the north of east or west ; 
but only a little, and the less the better, otherwise 
the plants will not generally thrive in it, nor will the 
flowers acquire their natural colours, 

490. To air Plants, and ventilate Rooms ryAerem 

thei/ are contained. 

Plants should have air, every day in the year, to 
make them grow well ; but this matter, in sitting- 
rooms, will not of course be. regulated for their 



AlAKAGEMENT OF SEEt)S. 251 

sakes, especially in the colder seasons. Wherever 
placed, however, some attention should be paid to 
airing and ventihuing the rooms regularly, by open- 
ing the windows and occasionally the doors, in or- 
der to excite a free circulation of air. This should 
be done to a certain extent every day, according to 
the state of the weather, except in the time of se- 
vere frost, when it would not be advisable to admit 
external air. But at such time^, if bad weather be of 
long continuance, the rooms may he ventilated by 
means of the doors, and by exciting a current of air 
ifi the passages, or other parts of the house. 

In very severe frost, or in a continuation of damp 
weather, moderate fires should be made for the sake 
of the plants, if placed in rooms not occupied. The 
window shutters should also be closed at night. 



SECT. II.— SEEDS. 

491. Easi^ Method of discovering whether or noi 

Seeds are sufficiently/ ripe. 

Seeds, when not sufficiently ripe, will swim, but 
when arrived at full maturity, they will be found uni- 
formly to fall to the bottom ; a fact that is said to 
hold equally true of all seeds, from the cocoa nut to 
the orchis. 

492. On preserving Seeds of Plants in a Slate ft for 

Vegetation, 

Seeds of plants may be preserved, for many months 
at least, by causing them to be packed, either ia 
husks, pods, ^c* in absorbent paper, with raisins 
or brown moist sugar; or a good way, practised by 
gardeners, is to wrap the seed in brown paper or 
cartridge paper, pasted down, and then varnished 
-over. 



2S2 GARDENING — -BOTAXV. 

493. To facilitate the Growth of Foreign Seeds* 

Mr. Humbolt has found, that seeds, which do not 
commonly germinate in our climate, or in our hot- 
houses, and which of course we cannot raise for our 
gardens, or hope to naturalize in our fields, become 
capable of germinating, when immersed for some 
days in a w^eak oxygenised muriatic acid. This in- 
teresting discovery ha^ already turned to advan= 
tage in several botanic^ardens. 



SECT. IIL— MANAGEMENT OF feARDEN^ 
BORDERS. 

494. To plant nnd make Edgings, 

Edgings of daisies, thrift, violets, gentianella, 
-&c. should be planted in February; but those of 
box succeed better, if planted in April or August. 

New edgings should be planted rather closely, 
that they may have an immediate effect 5 and, in re- 
pairing old ones, plant very close, that the v/hole 
may appear the more uniform. Some plant these, in 
either case, with the dibble, but it is' better to do 
this with the spade ; cutting out by the line, a drill 
or furrow, -perpendicular, on the side next the bor- 
der, and to a depth suitable to the size of the roots 
to be laid; jplacing them against the perpendicular 
side, and spreading out their fibres sideways ; ex- 
posing themlo the air as short a time as possible. 

495. How to cut Box Edgings. 

Box edgings should be cut about the beginning of 
April, or in the end of J uly. They should, however, 
be cut once a year, and should be kept two inches 
in breadth at bottom ; being tapered up to a thin 
«dge at top ; for nothing looks so ill as a large bushy 



fcULTCRE, &C. or FLCrWERS, O^^ 

edging, especially to a narrow walk. The use of 
edging is to separate the earth from the gi-avel, and 
the larger they are allowed to grow, the less effec- 
tual they become ; getting the more open below, as 
they advance in height. Such also haj'bour snails, 
and other troublesome vermin. 

496. A sure Method of curing Gravel Walks. , 

Three parts pond water to one of brine, from the 
salting-tub in a family, poured with a watering pot 
upon gravel walks, will not only kill the moss upon 
them, but drive away the worms which make so 
many holes in them, and also prevent weeds spring- 
ing up. This a gentleman has lately tried, who 
has several gravel walks in a grove near his house. 
Since he moistened his walks with brine, which is 
now four years ago, they are incommoded neither 
hy moss, weeds, or worms. Every autumn he caus- 
es them to be well watered with the brine and pond 
water, during a whole week, to prevent moss, and 
a week in the spring, to guard against weeds and 
worms, besides giving them a sprinkling every now 
•and then in summer season, when they beem to 
want it. 



SECT. IV.~CULTURE AND MANAGEMENT 
OF FLOWERS. 

,497. Proper Method of laying Carnations, 

In summer, towards the latter end of June, or 
any time in July, or beginning of August, when 
the shoots of the year are advanced to a proper 
growth, being from four, five, or six, to seven or 
eight inches long, which are to be laid as they grow 
on the plants, and to remain affixed thereto til! 
rooted in the grounds 



254 GARDENING BOTANY. 

Thus far observed, begin the work by first clear- 
ing away all weeds about the plants, and loosen the 
earth a little around them, and if the surface is low, 
;add some mould thereto sufficient to raise it high 
enough to receive the layers easily ; then begin the 
laying the shoots one by one ; strip off the lower 
leaves so as to have some inches of a clear shoot 
below; and trim the top leaves shorter and even, 
and then slit or gash the shoot on the under side ; 
in doing which, fix on a joint about the middle of 
the shoot underneath, and with your sharp knife 
cut half through the joint, and slanting upwards, so 
as to slit the shoot up the middle half an inch, or 
but little more ; which done, directly lay it, by 
bending it down to the earth with the gash or slit 
part open, making an opening in the earth, and peg 
it down with one or two of the small-hooked sticks, 
and earth over the body of the layer an inch or two 
deep, still keeping the slit open and the top raised 
gently upright, pressing the earth moderately upon 
them ; and in this manner proceed with laying all 
the shoots on each plant ; and when all are laid 
give a gentle watering to settle the earth close a^ 
bout the layers, and repeat it frequently in dry 
weather. 

They will soon emit roots at the gash or slit part, 
generally at the bottom of the tongue, and in five or 
six weeks will often be rooted fit for separating and 
planting off from the parent, so that when they have 
been about five, six, or seven weeks laid, you will 
examine the progress they have made in rooting, 
by opening the earth gently about some of the lay- 
ers ; and as soon as they appear to be tolerably 
rooted, let them be cut off from the old plant with a 
sharp knife, in order to be timely planted out in 
, nursery beds, that they may root more abundantly, 
and get due strength before winter ; observing, in 
cutting them off from the mother plantj to open, the 



Culture, &c. oi* flowers. 256 

^^roiind so as to take them up with all the roots they 
have made, and cut them clean oirbeyond the gash; 
afterwards trim off any naked woody part or bot- 
tom, but preserve all the roots, and trim the lon^- 
tops a little, then plant them in nursery rov/s, six 
inches asunder, or you may prick some in small 
pots, one layer in eacii, giving water directly at. 
planting, and repeat it often in dry weather till 
they take good root, and grow freely, keeping them 
clean from weeds. 

Those in the nursery beds will, by October, be 
good strong plants. The choicest sorts may then 
be planted in pots, to move under occasional shel- 
ter in time of severe frost, and for which purpose, 
either use small pots (3^) to contain them all win- 
ter, or plant them in large pots (24 or 16) to remain 
to flower, observing to take them up out of the nur- 
sery beds for potting, <S:c. with a garden trowel, 
each layer with a good ball of earth about the roots ; 
and having the pots ready, placing a shell over the 
holes at bottom, and put some good light rich e"aTtii 
therein ; plant one layer with its ball about the 
roots entire, in each pot, fill up with more earth, 
an J give some water; you m:iy also at the same 
lime plant some of the more ordinary or common 
sorts into Ho wer- borders or beds, to stand the full 
weather all the yeai-, but the choicer sorts in the 
pots, may, in November, be placed close together, 
either in a garden-frame, to have occasional protec- 
tion of the glasses, or mats, in severe frost, and have 
the full air in ail open weather and mild days, or 
may be plunged in a raised bed of any dry compost,, 
raised some inches above the common level, and 
arched over with hoop arches, in order to be pro- 
tected with occasional covering of garden mats when 
hard frosts prevail ; but in either method be sure 
to expose them fully in all open weather, as ^fore- 
said. 



25& OARDENlNfl — BOTANY. 

In the spring, such as have remained all winter in 
small pots, should, in February, or early in March, 
be turned out with the ball of earth about the root, 
and planted into lar2;cr pots, to remain for flower- 
ing, giving proper waterings ; and those which were 
potted at once into larger pots in autumn, should 
now have the earth stirred at top, taking out some^ 
and fill up with fresh good earth, and give a little- 
water. 

The layers planted in the common borders of the 
pleasure and flower garden require no other care 
than keeping them clean from weeds, and tying up- 
the flower stalks to sticks when they are advanced: 
long enough to require support. 

498. Plani.Rtimtered by being placed in Dlahes, im- 

prope7\ 

The practice of placing flats or saucers under 
[jlants, and feeding them by the roots, that is, pour- 
ing the w^atercontinually into these dishes, and nev- 
LM" on the earth at top, is highly improper. The 
water should always be poured on the surface of the 
earth, that it nmy filter completely through it, to 
the benefit and refreshment of the fibres. 

499. TVhen to plant Annual and Perennial Flo7oers. 

Many kinds of annuals and perennials, sown in 
March and the beginning of April, will be fit for 
transplanting about the end of May, and may either 
be planted in patches about borders, or in beds, as 
fancy shall direct. Of these, the kinds improved 
by transplanting, are, amaranthuses, China asters, 
columbines, French and African marigolds, fox- 
gloves, holly hocks, India pinks, love lies a bleed- 
ing, mallows, migniotle, prince's feather, scabious, 
stocks, sun-flowers, sweet-williams, wall-flowers, 
and others. They should be planted out in a show- 
« ry time, if possible, or otherwise be frequently 
watered, till they have struck root. 



CULTURE, Sic, OF FLOWERS. 257 

500. To remove Herbs and Floxoers in the Summer* 

If you have occasion to transplant in the summer 
season, let it be in the evening after the heat is- 
past, plant and water the same immediately, and 
there will be no danger from the heat next day ; but 
be careful, in digging up the earth, you do not 
break any of the young shoots, as the sap will exude 
out of the same to the great danger of the plants. 

•50/. Method ofgrozuing Flowers and Fruits during. 

Winter, 

In order to produce this effect, the trees or shrubs 
being taken up in the spring, at the time when they 
are about to bud, with some of their own soil care- 
fully preserved among the roots, must be placed 
upright in a cellar till Michaelmas ; when, with the 
addition of fresh earth, they are to be })ut into 
proper tubs or vessels, and placed in a stove or hot- 
house, where they must every morning be moisten- 
ed or refreshed with a solution of Iialf an ounce of 
sal-ammoniac in a pint of rain water. Thus, in the 
month of Febi'uary, fruits or roses will appear ; and 
with respect to flowers in general, if they are sown 
in pots at or before Michaelmas, and watered in u 
similar manner, they will blow at Christmas. 

502. To preserve delicate young Shoots of Flower.? 
from Slugs and Earwigs, 

Earwigs and slugs are fond of the points of the 
young shoots of carnations and pink, and are very 
troublesome i»i places where they abound. To 
prevent them from getting to the fine stage plants, 
or supports of the stage, they are sometimes insu- 
lated in water, being set in cisterns orpans. If a 
pencil, dipt in oil, was drawn round the bottom of 
the posts once in two days, neither of these insects 
nor ants would attempt them. Few insects canen^ 

w 2 



2^a '^' GARD£rNl#Ci — BOTANV, 

dure oil. The smallest drop of it is instantly fatal 
to many kinds. 

503. Virtues of the Sun- Flower. 

The cultivation of the annual sun-flower is recom- 
mended to the notice of the public, as possessing 
the advantages of furnishing abundance of agreea- 
ble fodder for cattle in their leaves. When in flow- 
er, bees flock to them from all quarters to gather hon- 
ey. The seed is valuable ia feeding sheep, pigs, 
and other animals ; it prodiices a striking effect in 
poultry, as occasioning them- to lay more eggs, and 
it yields a large quantity of excellent oil, by pres- 
sure; the dry stalks burn well, the ashes affording 
a considerable quantity of alkali. 

504. TopreserveFlonaer Seeds, 

Those who are curious about saving flower seeds,. 
must attend to them in the month of August. Many 
kinds will begin to ripen apace, and should be care- 
fully sticked and supported, to prevent them from 
being shaken by high winds, and so partly lost. 
O.lhers should be defended from mnch wet ; such as 
'asters, marigolds, and generally those of the class 
'*:•' Syngenesia ;. as from the construction of their flow- 
ers they are apt to rot, and the seeds to mould, in 
bad seasons. Whenever they are thought ripe, ot 
indeed any others, in wet weather, they should be 
removed to an airy shed or loft, gradually dried, 
and rubbed or beat out at conveniency. 



SECT, v.— CULTURE AND TREATMENT 
OF FRUIT TREES AND SHRUBS. 

SOS.: To prevent Blossom and Fruit Trees from heingi 
damaged by early Spring Frost, 

If a rope (a hempen one it is presumed) be intgr^ 



CULTURE, <StC. OF FRUIT TREES AiSD SH RITES, ^lo^- 

mixed among the branches of a fruit-tree iti blost 
son), and the end of it brought down, so as to ter-* # 
niinate in a bucket of water, and sliould a slight 
frost tidce place in the night-time, in that case the 
tree will not be affected by the frost ; but a film of 
ice, of considerable thickness, will be formed oa 
the surface of the bucket in which the rope's end 
is immersed, although it -has often happened that 
another bucket of water, placed beside it for the 
sake of experiment, has had no ice at all upon it. 

^06. Chinese Mode of propagating Fruit Trees, 

The ingenious people of China have a common 
method of propagating several kinds of fruit trees, 
which of late years has been practised with success 
in Bengal. The method is simply this : — They 
strip a ring of bark, about an inch in width, from a 
bearing branch, surround the place with a ball of 
fat earth, or loam, bound Otst to the branch with a 
piece of matting : over this they suspend a pot or 
horn, with water, having a small hofe \n the bottom 
just sulRcient to let the v^^aterdrop, in order to keep 
the earth constantly moist. The branch throws new 
roots into the earth just above the place where the 
ring of bark was stripped off. The operation is 
performed in the spring, and the branch is sawn off 
and put into the ground at the fall of the leaf. The 
following year it will bear fruit. 

507. To improve Fruit Trees bi/ Attention to the Cut- 
our of the Soil, 

The colour, and also the quality of soils have an 
effect on the colour and flavour of fruits — even on 
the colour of many flowers. The effects of the co- 
lour of soils, on that offriiits, are most perceptible 
on the delicate kinds, such as grapes, peaches, &c. 
but to a nice observer, it extends in a greater or less 
degree to all fruits. For- instanccy if two black 



260 GARDENINCr-^^BOTANY, 

Hamburg grapes, made from the cuttings of the 
same plant, shall be planted, the one In a dry hazely 
loam, and the other in a moisi black earth, the fruit 
of the one will be brown, or of a grizly colour, 
and the other very dark red orblack ; and the grape 
will be more juicy, though better in flavour, thari^ 
the other grown in a drier soil. 

508. , To increase the Grozoth in Trees, 

It may be depended upon as a fact, that by occa- 
sionally washing the stems of trees, their growth 
w ill be greatly increased : for several recent experi- 
ments have proved that all the ingredients of vege- 
tation united, which are received from the roots, 
stem, branches, and leaves, of a mossy and dirt^ 
tree, do not produce half the increase either in wood 
or fruit, that another gains who:>c stem is clean. It 
is clearly obvious that proper nourishment cannot 
be received from rain, for the dirty stem will retain 
the moisture longer than when clean, and the moss 
and dirt will absorb the finest parts of the dew, and 
likewise act as a skreen, by depriving the tree of 
that share of sun and air which it requires.. 

A cominoti scrubbing-brush and clean water i& 
all that is necessary,, only care must be observed 
not to iiijure the bark. 

509. To prevent Hares and Rabbits from barking 
young Plantations, 

Hares, rabbits, and rats, have a natural antipathy- 
to tar ; but tar, though fluid, contracts, when ex- 
posed to the sun and air for a timej a great dryness 
and a very binding quality ; and if applied to trees- 
in its natural state, will occasion them to be bark 
bound; To remove this dilliculty, tar is of so strong 
a savour, that a small quantity mixed with other 
things, in their nature open and loose, wi!l give the. 
whole mixture such a degree of its own taste and: 



CULTURE, &C. OK TROIT TREES AM) ^HiU i: 

smeH, as will prevent hares, &lc. louching what it 
is applied to. 

Take any quantity of tar, and six or seven times 
as much grease, stirring and mixing them well to- 
gether": with this composition brush the stems oi' 
young trees, as high as hares, &c. can reach ; and 
it will effectually prevent their being barked. 

510. Bad Effects of Iron Jsalls^ <^-c. on Fruit Trees ^ 
or mischievous Effects of Iron Kails in Conjunc- 
tion with Bmnchcs of Fruit Tress,. 

It often happens that some of the limbs of fruit 
|recs, trained agaiiist a wall, are blighted and die, 
while others remain in a healthy and flourishing 
state. This has been hitherto erroneously attribut- 
ed to the effects of lightning; but, from closer ob- 
servation, and from several experiments, it has been 
found to arise from the corroding el?ects of the rust 
of the nails and cramps with which trees in this situ- 
ation are fastened. To avoid this inconvenience, 
therefore, it requires only to be careful in prevent- 
ing tlie iron from coming in contact with the bark 
of the trees. 

511. To destroy Moss on Trees, 

Ilemove it with a hard scrubbing-brush in Feb- 
ruary and March, and wash the trees with cow- 
dung, urine, and soap-suds. 

512. Xecessitij of taking off superfuous Suckers 

from Shrubs, 
Many flowering shrubs put out strong suckers 
from the root, such as lilacs, syringa, and some of 
the kinds of roses, which take greatly from the 
strength of the mother plant ; and which, if not wan- 
ted fcr the purpose of planting next season, should 
be twisted off, or otherwise destroyed. 

- 1 3. To cure the Disease in Jlpple Trees. 

Brush off the white down, clear off the red stain 



S62 ^ GARDENIAH BOTANY. 

underneath it. and anoint the places infected with a 
liquid mixture of train oil and Scotch snuff. 

514. To cure the Canker m Trees-, 

Cut them off to the quick, and apply a piece of 
sound bark from any other tree, and bind it on with 
a flannel roller. Cut off the canker, and a new shoot 
willgi'ow strong, but in a year or two you will iind 
it cankered. 

515, A Method of curing Fruit Trees Injected with 

an Easterlij Blight, 

Where valuable fruit trees are infected with thisy 
blight, they may, with litde trouble and expense, 
be in a short time cured, by fumigating them with 
brimstone strewed on light charcoal ; this effectual- 
ly kills them ; but the workman must observe to get 
to windward of the trees, as the fumes both of brim- 
stone and charcoal are very offensive and perni- 
cious. 

Mr. Miller recommends washing and sprinkling 
the blighted trees from time to time, with common 
water '(that is, such as hath not had any thing 
steeped in it) and the sooner that is performed, 
(whenever we apprehend danger) the better; and 
}t' the young and tender shoots seem to he much in- 
iected, wash them with a woollen cloth so as to clear 
them if possible, from all glutinous matter, that 
their respiration and perspiration may not be ob- 
structed, and if some broad fiat pans, or tubs, are 
placed near the trees, it will keep their tender parts 
in a ductile state, and greatly keep them ; but 
whenever this operation of washing the trees is per- 
formed, it should be early in the day, that the mois- 
ture may be exhaled before the cold of the night 
comes on, especially if the nights are frosty, nor 
should it be done when the sun shines very hot up" 
on the wall, which would be subject Iq scored up the 
tender blossom. 



rrLTURE, he. OF FRUIT TREES AND SHRLR5. io.3 

516. Experienced Method of healing Wounds in 

Trees, 

This method consists of making a varnish of com- 
mon linseed oil, rendered very drying, by boiling it 
for the space of an hour, with an ounce of Hthai-gc 
to each pound of oil, mixed with calcined bones, 
pulverized and sifted, to the consistence of an al- 
most liquid paste. With this paste the wounds of 
trees are to be covered, by means of a brush, after 
the bark and other substance have been pared, so 
as to render the whole as smooth and even as pos- 
sible. The varnish must be applied in dry weather, 
in order that it may attach itself properly. 

517. Composition f 07' healing Wounds in Trees. 

Take of dry pounded chalk, three measures ; and 
of common vegetable tar, one measure ; mix them 
thoroughly, and boil them, with a low heat, till the 
composition becomes of the consistency of bees- 
W'ax ; it may be preserved for use, in this state, for 
any length of time. ' If chalk cannot conveniently 
be got, dry brick dust m.ay be substituted. 

Jlpplication, — After the broken or decayed limb 
has been sawed off, the whole of the saw-cut must 
be very careiully pared away, and the rough edges 
of the bark, in particular, must be made quite 
smooth ; the doing of this properly is of great con- 
sequence ; then lay on the above composition, hot, 
about the thickness of half-a-crown, over the wound- 
ed place, and over the edges of the surrounding 
bark ; it should be spread with a hot trowel. 

518. To prune Wall Fruit. 

Cut off all fresh shoots, however fair they may 
appear to the eye, that will not, without much bend- 
ing, be well placed to the wall; for if any branch 
happen to be twisted or bruised in the bending or 
burning (which you may not easily perceive) al- 



264 <3AllI>E>flXG— BOTANY, 

though it may gro-w and prosper for the present, yet 
it will decay in time, and the sap or gum will issue 
from that place. 

519. To prune Vines to Advantage, 

In pruning vines, leave some new brancht?5 tY^ry 
year, and take away, (if too many) some of the old, 
which will be of great advantage to the tree, and 
much increase the quantity of fruit. 

When you trim your vine, leave two knots, and 
cut them off the next time 5 for, usually, the two 
buds yield a bun^ch of grapes. Vines, thus pruned, 
liave been linown to bear abundantly, whereas 
others that have been cut close to please the eye, 
tave been most barren of fruit. ^ 

^20. The most proper Time iGhen Leaves of Trees 
ought to he collected for plmrmactutical and econO' 
mical Purposes, 

>]t is at that period when the plant is in full flow- 
er, that the leaves possess their full virtue. They 
drop when their particular life has terminated. 



SECT. VI.— CULTURE AND MANAGEMENT 
OF GARDEN CROPS. 

521. To propagate Herbs by Slips and Cuttings, 

Many kinds of pot herbs may, in July, be propa- 
gated by cuttings or slips, which may be planted 
out to nurse on a shady border for a few weeks, or 
till ihey have struck root, and may then be planted 
t)ut where they are to remain. If made about the 
middle, or end of the month, they will be ready for 
transplanting before the end of August, and in that 
cas^e will be well established before the winter. 



t't^TUflE, &C. OP GARDEN CROPS. 265 

The kinds are marjoram, mint, sage, savory, sor- 
rel, tansy, tarragons, and thyme. 

522. A^ero Method of rendering Asparagns more prO' 
ductivej and of producing it in every Month in the 
Year, 

The dowers of asparagus are found, on a strict 
examination, to be diasrioiis, although arranged by 
Linnaeus, and other botanists, as hermaphrodite. 

Those individuals which bear berries have abor- 
tive stamina, and those which have perfect stamina 
are destitute of pistils, or at least have only abor- 
tive ones. 

The male plants throv/ up a far greater quantity 
of shoots than the female ones, although not quite 
e(jual to them in size. 

\[\ the formation, therefore, of beds, the male 
plants only should be selected, which may easily he 
done by not planting them from the seed bed until 
they have flowered. 

When the plants are one year old, transplant 
them into the other beds, at six inches distance ; 
l(5t them remain there until they flower, which will 
be, in most of them, in the. second year ; put a small 
stick to each male plant, to mark them ; and pull up 
the females, unless you chuse to make a small plan- 
tation with some of them., to prove the truth of the 
experiment. 

As asparagus is esteemed one of the greatest deli- 
cacies which the garden affords, no person fond of 
it should be unacquainted with the method of pro- 
ducing it in every month of the year. 

Towards the end of July, especially iljt be rainy 
weather, cut down the stalks of the asparagirs,--foi!k^ 
up the beds and rake them smooth. If it be dry, wa- 
ter them with the draining of a dunghill; but, in 
stoad of leaving them round, leave them -rather flat 
or hollow in the middle, the better to retain the wa- 



266 GARDExXlNG BOTANt. 

f 

ter or rain. In about twelve or fourteen days the as-- 
paragus will begin to appear, and if it be dry wea- 
ther, continue watering once or twice a week. 

By this method you may cut asparagus till about 
the end of September, at which time the hot-beds 
will succeed this ; so that by making five or six hot- 
beds during the winter, you may have a regular suc- 
cession of it every month of the year. 

Some persons will object to cutting the same beds 
twice a year: to obviate this objection, leave two 
or three beds uncut in spring, and make a few more 
beds, if you choose to follow the practice. 

Asparagus seed is very cheap; nor is it necessa- 
ry to use so much as was formerly used in making 
the beds. It is better to apply a litde rotten dung on 
he tops of the beds, and to sow some seed every 
year, that you may have plenty of plants for forcing 
and making new beds. Be not too fond of continu- 
ing the old ones, when you perceive they begin to 
fail, but make new ones, and force the old roots. 

523. To raise Capsicums^ and make Cayenne Pepper. 

Cayenne pepper is a spice used in most families, 
and often cultivated in the gardens for ornament, 
without either gentlemen or gardeners knowing that 
,they have so valuable a spice in their possession ; 
for the usual price is a shilling an ounce, and even 
then it is not much dearer than black, as it will go 
about four times as far. 

This pepper originally came from Cayenne, in 
South America, (and other warm countries) from 
whence it took its name, but is now so naturalized 
to this climate as to be raised on a common hot-bed 
in spring, 

It is produced from the capsicum, which is raised 
for ornament, with many other annual flowers, or 
for pickling the green pods, and is the seed and pod 
whiJn ripe. 



CULTURE,<SiC. OF GARDEN CROPS. 267 

in March or April, procure some pods of any of 
the sorts of capsicums, as there are many varieties 
of them of different shapes ; take out the seeds, and 
sovv them on a hot-bed, not too thick. 

When they are about four inches high, prick them 
out on the hot-bed, at six inches asunder; or put 
each into a small pot, or three into a large one, and 
keep them still under the glasses. 

In June, when the weather is setded, plant them 
all in a warm situation, in rich earth, where they 
are to remain ; some on the borders of the flower- 
garden, and some into larger pots, which you can 
shelter in bad weather. 

524. Mew Method of raising Cucumbers, 

From the best seed that can be got of the com- 
mon prickly cucumber, raise plants on a moderate 
hot-bed, not hurrying them too much in their growth. 
In May, when the danger of the frost is nearly over, 
familiarise the plants, by degrees, to the air, and 
towards the latter end of the month plant them in 
the open ground against a south wall. Take care- 
not to give them too much water, as that will injure 
the fruit. When they have run up about five feet, 
they will send forth blossoms, and the fruit will "be- 
gin to shew itself soon after. The flesh of cucum- 
bers raised in this manner will be thicker and firm- 
er, and the flavour vastly more delicious, than those 
raised from the same seed, but planted in the ordin- 
ary way, and the runners suflered to trail on the 
ground. Though a south wall, in most gardens, is 
too much appropriated to other things, to give room 
for cucumbers in general, yet in every garden a few 
plants may be so trained by way of rarity, and to 
save seed, which is found to be greatly improved by 
this method, so as to produce much better cucum- 
bers in the common way of raising them. One or 
two plants, so raised, will supply a sufficient quan- 
tity of seed for a large garden. 



268- GARDENING— BOTAJ^Y. 

Laying a cucumber, or melon bed, with tiles, is 
also of particular service in improving the fruit, and 
giving it a proper flavour. 

525. To prevent the irregular Grozvth of Melons, 

It is well known that melons frequently in certain 
situations, lose their circular form, and grow largep 
on one side than the other, and that those mishapen 
fruits are always bad. To remedy this, take a s^mal^ 
forked stick, in proportion to the size of the melon,, 
aqd thrust it into the ground as nearly as possible 
tp the tail of the fruit, taking the precaution to lay a 
little moss between the twoprongs, and suspend the 
melon to this fork. In a few days the melon will re- 
sume its form, when the fork may be removed, and 
tl>€ operation is finished. The quality of the fruit 
remains unchanged. 

526-. Easi/ Method of producing Mushrooms, 

If the water wherein mushrooms have been steep- 
ed or washed be poured upon an old bed, or if the^^ 
broken parts of mushrooms be strewed thereon, 
there will speedily arise great numbers. 

527. To obtain a good Crop of Onions^ 

In order to obtain a good crop of onions, it is 
proper to sow at different seasons, viz. in light soils, 
ill August, January, or early in February ; and in 
heavy wet soits, in March, or early in April, Onions, 
however, should not be sown in January, unless the 
ground be in a dry state, which is not often the cas^ 
at so early a period of the season ; bat if so, advan- 
tage should be taken of it. 

-'')28. I'he Advantage in so7ci7ig Peas in Circles in- 
stead of straight Rozvs, 

It is a great error in those persons who sow the 
rows of tall growing peas close together. It is much 
better in all those serf?. \Yhich grow six or ci^^h^ 



CULTURE, &C. or GARDEN CROPS. 269 

feet high, to have only one row, and then to leave a 
bed ten or twelve feet wide for onions, carrots, or 
any crops which do not grow tall. 

The advantages which will be derived are, that 
the peas will not be drawn up so much, be stronger, 
will flower much nearer the ground, and in wet wea- 
ther can be more easily gathered without wetting 
you. 

But instead of sowing peas in straight rows, if 
you will form the ground into circles of three feet 
diameter, with a space of two feet between each 
circle, in a row thirty feet long, you will have six 
circles of peas, each nine feet; in all, fifty-four feet 
of peas instead of thirty, on the same extent of 
ground. 

If you want more than one row of circles, leave 
a bed often ortwelvefeet before you begin another. 

For the very tall sorts, four feet circles will afford 
more room for the roots to grow in, and care must 
be taken, by applying some tender twigs, or strings, 
to prevent the circles from joining each other. 

This method is equally applicable for scarlet 
beans. 

529. To raise Peas in Autumn^ and to prevent Mice 
from eating them when sozvn„ 

The purple-flowered peas are found to answer 
best for a late crop in autumn, as they are not so li- 
able to be mildewed as many of the other sorts, and 
-^will continue flowering till the frost stops them. 

Those peas may be sown in July, August, or so 
late as the first week in September, if sown in a 
warm sheltered situation, and in a soil inclining to 
sand. 

Soak the peas in warm milk, and after you have 
drawn the drills, water them before you sow the 
peas 5 it is best to sow them towards the evening. 

x2" 



270 GARDENING BOTANY. 

If the autumn should prove very dry, they will re- 
quire frequent watering.. 

When peas are sown before winter, or early in 
spring, they are very apt to be eaten by mice. 

To prevent this, soak the peas for a day or two 
in train oil before you sow them, which will encour- 
age their vegetation, and render them so obnox- 
ious to the mice, that they will not eat them. 

530. Method of cultivating Radishes for Salad, so as 
to have them ready at all Seasons of the Year, 

Take seeds of the common radish, and lay them 
in rain water to steep for twenty-four hours ; then 
put them quite wet, into a small linen bag, well tied 
at the mouth with packthread. If you have steeped 
a large quantity of seeds, you may divide them into 
several bags.. Then expose the bags in; a place 
where they will receive the greatest heat of the sun. 
for about twenty-four hours, at the end of which 
lime the seed will begin to grow, and you may then 
sow it in the usual manner, in earth well exposed to 
the heat of the sun. Prepare two small tubs to cov- 
er each other exactly. These may be easily pro- 
vided, by sawing a small cask through the middle, 
and they will serve in winter ; in summer one wilt 
be sufficient for each kind of earth that has been 
sown. As soon as you have sown your seeds you 
must cover them with your tub, and at the end of 
three days you will find radishes of the size and 
thickness of young lettuce, having at their extremi- 
ties two small round leaves, rising from the earth, 
of a reddish colour. These radishes, cut or pulled 
\3p, will be excellent, if mixed with salad, and they 
have a much more delicate taste than the commoa 
radishes which are eaten with salt. 

By taking the following precautions you may 
have them in the winter, and even during the hard- 
est frosts : After having steeped the seed^ in warpx 



CULTURE, Sic. Of GARDEN CROPS. 271 

water, and exposed them to the sun as already di- 
rected, or in a place sufficiently hot to make thcmi 
shoot forth, warm the two tubs ; fill one of them 
with earth well dunged ; sow your seeds, thus pre- 
pared, in one of them, and cover it with the other 
tub; you must then be careful to sprinkle it with 
warm water as often as may be necessary. Then; 
carry the two tubs closely joined, taking care thcy- 
cover each other, into a warm vault, or cellar, and: 
at the end of fifteen days you may gather a fine 
salad. 

331. To preserve Straioherry Plants from the Heat of 
the Suriy (^*c.. 

Sir Joseph Banks, from a variety of experiments, 
and the experience of many years, recommends a 
general revival of the now almost obsolete practice 
of laying sti'aw under strawberry plants, when the 
fruit begins to swell ;. by which means the roots are 
shaded from the sun, the waste of moisture by 
evaporation prevented, the leaning fruit kept from 
damage, by resting on the ground, particularly in 
wet weather, and much labour in watering saved.. 
Twenty trusses- of long straw are sufficient for 1800. 
feet of plants. 

532. Direciioiisfot managing Strawberries in Sam- 

mer. 

On the management of strawberries in June and 
July, the future prosperity of them greatly depends; 
and if each plant has not been kept separate, by 
cutting ofi' the runners, they will be in a state of 
confusion, and you will find three ditierent sorts of. 
plants. 

1. Old plants, whose roots are turned black, hard, 
and woody. 

2. Young plants, not strong enough to flower. 

3. Flowering plants, which ought only to be 
there, and perhaps not many of them. 



2T2 GARDENIfiTG — BOTANY, 

Before the time of flowering is quite over, exa- 
mine them, and pull up every old plant which has 
not ilowered ; for, if once they have omitted to flow- 
er, you may depend upon it they will never pro- 
duce any after, being too old, and past bearing ; 
but to be fully convinced, leave two or three, set a 
stick to them, and observe thenv next year. 

If the young plants, runners of last year, be too 
thick, take some of them away, and do not leave 
them nearer than a foot of the scarlet, alpines, and 
wood, and fifteen or sixteen inches of all the larger 
sorts ; and in the first rainy w^pather in July or Au- 
gust, take them all up, and'make a fresh plantation 
with them, and they will be very strong plants for 
flowering next year. 

Old beds, even if the plants Be kept single at 
their proper distance, examine, and pull all the oldi 
plants which have not flowered.. 

When the fruit is nearly all gathered, examine 
them again, and cut off the runners ; but if you^ 
w^ant to make a fresh plantation, leave some of the 
two first, and cut off all the rest.. Theji stir up the 
ground with a trowel, or three-pronged fork, and 
in August they will be fit to transplant. 

If you have omitled in July do not fail in August, 
that the runners may make good roots to be trans- 
planted'in September, for, if later, the worms will 
draw themout of the ground, and the frost afterwards 
■will prevent them from striking root 5 the conse- 
quence of which is, their not flowering the next 
spring ; and you will lose a year. 

5^33. To cultivate the common Garden Rhuburb, 

It is not enough to give it depth of good soil, bat; 
it must be watered in drought ; and in winter must 
be well covered with straw or dung. If this is at- 
tended to, your i^ubarb will be solid when taken 
QUI, of the ground 5 and your kitchen, if a warm; 



CULTURE, &C. OF GARDEN CROPS. 27^ 

*)ne, when cut into large pieces, will soon lit it for 



use. 



334. Method of cidlivaihig nnd cur'ing Tarkeij RJiu- 
harh from Seed, 

The seed should be sown about the beginning of 
February, on a bed of good soil, (if rather sandy, 
the better) exposed to an oast or west aspect in pre- 
ference to the south ; a full sun being prejudicial to 
the vegetation of the seeds, and of the plants whilst 
young. 

The seeds are best sown moderately thick, (broad 
rasi) (reading them regularly in, as is usual with 
parsnips and other light seeds, and then raking the 
ground smooth. When the season is wet, make a 
"bed for sowing the rhubarb seeds upon, about two 
feet thick, with new dung from the stable, covering 
it near one foot thick with good soil. The intent of 
this bed is not for the sake of warmth, bnt solely 
to prevent the rising of earth-worms, which in a 
moist season will frequently destroy the young crop. 

If the seed is good, the plants often rise too thick ; 
if so, when they have attained six leaves, they 
should be taken up carefully (where too close.) leav- 
ing the standing crop eight or ten inches apart : 
those taken up may be planted at the same distance 
in a fresh spot of ground, in order to furnish other 
plantations. When the plants in general are grown 
to the size that cabbage plants are usually set out 
for a standing crop, they are best planted where 
they are to remain, in beds four feet wide, one row 
along the middle of the bed, leaving two yards dis- 
tance betwixt the plants, allowing an alley between 
the beds about a foot wide, for conveniency of weed- 
ing the plants. 

in the autumn, when the decayed leaves are re- 
moved, if the shoveling of the alleys arc thrown 
aver the crowns of the plants, it will be fovuid oi 
service. 



274 GARDENING— BOTAITY. 

o35. Cultivation of Turkey Rhubarb b)^ Offsets, 

Slip off several offsets from the heads of large 
plants : set them with a dibble about a foot apart, 
in order to remove them into other beds, and in the 
autumn they will be in a thriving state, 

536. Method of curing Rhubarb, 

The plants may be taken up, either early in the 
spring or in autumn, when the leaves are decaycdy 
in dry weather if possible ; when the roots are to be 
cleared from dirt (without washing,) let them be 
cut into pieces, and with a sharp knife freed from 
the outer coat, and exposed to the sun and air for a 
few days, to render the outside a little dry. 

In order to accelerate the curing the largest 
pieces, a hole may be scooped out with a penknife; 
these and the smaller parts are then to be strung on 
packthread, and hung up in a warm room, where it 
is to remain till perfectly dry. Each piece may be 
rendered more sightly by a common file, fixing it in 
a small vice during that operation ; afterwards rub 
over it a very fine powder, which the small roots 
furnish in beautiful perfection, for this and every 
other purpose where rhubarb is required. 

An easier and simpler method of drying rhubarb 
is, after cutting the root into handsome pieces, to 
wrap up each separately, in one or more pieces of 
whitish- brown paper, and then to place them on 
the hob of a common Bath stove, t^emon and or° 
ange peel dry beautifully in this way. 

537. Proper Soil for the Culture of Turnips. 

Sandy loams, in good heart, are mos>t favourable 
to their growth, though they will thrive well on 
strong loams, if they are not wet ; but on clayey, 
thin, or wet soils, they are not worth cultivating ; 
for though a good crop may be raised on such 
ground, when well prepared and dunged^ n?ora 



CULTURE, &C. OF GARDEN CROPS'. 275 

^amoge is done by taking off the turnips in winter, 
in poaching the soil, than the value ol the crop wilt 
repay. 

538. Preservation of Succulent Plants. 

Green succulent plants are better preserved after 
SL momentary immersion in boiling water, than 
otherwise. This practice has been successfully 
used in the preservation of cabbage, and other 
plants, dried for keeping ; it destroys the vegetable 
life at once, and in a great degree prevents that de- 
cay which otherwise attends them. 

539. Various useful Properties of Tobacco to Gar- 

deners. 

Tobacco is employed for so many different uses, 
that there is no person possessed of a garden, but 
will find both pleasure and profit in the cultivation 
of it, especially as it is now at such a high price. 
1 he seed is very cheap, and may be [H'ocured of 
most nurserymen, and will answer the same end as 
the foreign for most purposes, and considerably 
cheaper. 

(The cultivation of tobacco, however, for eco- 
nomical purposes, is prohibited in Great Britain 
and Ireland.) 

Uses to which it may he applied, — 1. To Florists, 
for two elegant annual plants to decorate the bor- 
ders of the flower garden ; or, on account of their 
height, to fill up vacant places in the shrubberies ; 
or, when put into pots, they will be very ornamen- 
tal in the green-house during the winter. 

2. Kitchen-gardeners would in a few days lose 
their crops of melons, if not immediately fumigated 
with tobacco smoke, when attacked by the red spi- 
der ; and it is useful to destroy the black flies or 
cucumbers in frames. 

3. Fruit-gardeners. When "peach and necta- 
rine trees have their leaves curled up, and the shoots 



S^6 6ARDENTNG BOTANY. 

covered with smother flies ; or the cherry trees hare 
the ends of the shoots infested with the black dol- 
phin fly ; canvas, pack-sheets, or doubled mats, 
nailed before them, and frequentlj'- fumigated under 
them, will destroy those insects. 

4. Forcing-gardeners, who raise roses and kid- 
ney-beans in stoves, can soon destroy the green 
flics which cover the stalks and buds of roses, and 
the insects which appear like a mildew on kidney- 
beans, by the assistance of the fumigating bellows. 

5. Nurserymen. When the young shoots of stand- 
ard cherry trees, or any other trees, are covered 
with the black dolphin flies, an infusion is made with 
the leaves and stalks of tobacco ; a quantity is put 
into an earthen pan, or small oblong wooden trough : 
one person holds this up, whilst another gendy 
bends the top of each tree, and lets the branches 
remain about a minute in the .liquor, which destroys 
them. 

6. Graziers, when their sheep arc infected with 
the scab, find relief from makirig a sheep- water with 
an infusion of the leaves and stalJis, Moles, when 
only a few hiils ai-e at first observed, may probably 
be soon dri\^n out of the ground, by fumigating 
their holes. 

7. Herb tobacco is also gready improved by 
having some of the leaves, when dried, cut with a 
pairofscissars, and mixed with the herbs in any 
quantity you may think proper, according to the 
strength you require, and save you the expense of 
buying tobacco. 

The herbs generally used for this purpose are 
coltsfoot and wood belony leaves : the leaves and 
flowers of lavender, rosemary, thyme, and some oth- 
ers of the like nature. 

{Scvei'al receipts, applicable to Gardening, may 
also be found under Chap, I. Sect, vri, viii. and ix, 
— Sec also Venning infra,) 



^PRESERVATION OF HEALTH. 2Tf 

CHAPTER XXVL 
HEALTH. 



[The following Chapter vjill be found to contain some 
receipts., -which perhaps may appear to infringe on 
the medical profession. It should however he im- 
derstood, that only such popular articles are hert 
introduced, as may, in ordinary cases, afford kelp 
or mitigation, until medical aid can he obtained ^ 
and also in such cases as require instantaneous as-- 
sislance.^ 



SECT. I. — ^GENERAL RULES FOR THE 
PRESERVATION OF HEALTH. 

540. Avoid, as much as possible, living near Church 

Yards, 

The putrid emanations arising from church yards, 
are very dangerous ; and parish churches, in which 
many corpses are interred, become impregnated 
with an air so corrupted, especially in spring, when 
the ground begins to grow warm, that it is prudent 
to avoid this evil as much as possible, as it may 
be, an,d, in some cases, has been, one of the chief 
sources of putrid fevers which are so prevalent at 
that season. 

541. Valuable concise Rules for preserving Health 

in Winter. 

Keep the feet from wet, and the head well defend- 
ed whcji in bed ; avoid too plentiful meals ; drink 



278 HEALTH. 

moderately warm and generous, but not inflaming 
liquors ; go not abroad without breakfast. Shun 
the night air as you would the plague ; and let your 
houses be kept tVoni damps by warm fires. By ob- 
serving these few and simple rules, better health 
may be expected than from the use of the most pow- 
erful medicines. 

542, Cautions in visiting Sick Rooms, 

Never venture into a sick room if you are in a 
violent perspiration (if circumstances require your 
continuance there for anytime,) for the moment 
your body becomes cold, it is in a state likely to ab- 
sorb the infection, and give you the disease. Nor 
visit a sick person (especially if the complaint be 
of a contagious nature) tvith an empty stomach ; 
as this disposes the system more readily to receive 
the contagion. In attending a sick person place 
yourself where the air passes from the door or win- 
dow to the bed of the diseased, not betwixt the dis- 
eased person and any fire that is in the room, as 
the heat of the fire will draw the infectious vapour 
in that direction, and you would run much danger 
from breathing in it. 

543. Preventive of autumnal Rheumatisms, 

For the sake of bright and polished stoves, do 
not, -vvhen the weather is cold, refrain from making 
fires. '^ There is not a more useful document for 
health to the inhabitants of this climate, than " Fol- 
low your feelings." 

644. To promote Sleep, 

No fire, candle, rush-light, or lamp, should be 
kept burning, during the night, in a bed-room, for 
it not only vitiates the air in a very considerable de- 
gree, but also disturbs and prevents the rest of those 
whose sleep is uneasy, pa:rticularly the aged. In 
a dark apartment^ sleep generally comes op with- 



PRESERVATION OF HEALTrf. 270 

out niucii invitation ; whereas, any light in the a- 
pai'tdicnt stimulates the brain, and consequently the 
whole nervous system, and dispels any tendency 
to repose. 

515. The Use of Tar Water in expanding the Lungs 
of Public Speakers, c^c. 

It has been found by t!ie experience of manv, 
that drinking tar water very much deterges and 
opens the lungs, and thereby gives a very sensibly 
greater case in speaking. A quart of tar is to be 
stirred six minutes in a gallon of water ; but if there 
be somewhat less tar it may do as well, especially 
at first, to try how it sits on the stomach. Take 
about one-fourth of a pint, at four several times, at 
a due distance froai meals. Begin taking it in the 
spring for about fourteen days, and continue it for 
a greater length of time, as occasion may require. 

546. German Method of preventing Hysterics, 
Caraway seeds, finely pounded, with a small pro- 
portion of ginger and salt, spread upon bread and 
butter, and eaten every day, especially early m 
the morning, and at night, before going to bed, arc 
successfully used in Germany, as a domestic reme- 
dy against hysterics. 

547. Hints for ventilating Stage Coaches, 

The plan is to have a hole perforated through the 
centre of the rocf of the carriage, of three inches 
diameter, with a tube or chimney, one or two inch- 
es long, above the top of the same ; into which tube 
a fine grating might be fixed, if necessary, to pre- 
vent the outside passengers putting any thing 
through. A slide might also be placed in a groove 
within the carriage, to enable the inside passengers 
to close the tube at pleasure. 



548. Best Mode of avoiding the fatal Accidents vf 

Open Carnages, 

Jumping out is particularly dangerous (the mo- 
tion of the gig communicating a different one to the 
one you give yourself by jumping,) which tends 
yery much to throw you on your side or head : ma- 
ny suppose it very easy to jump a little forward, 
Qnd alight safe ; 'tis supposition ; they w^ill not find 
it so on trial. The method of getting out behind the 
carriage is the most safe of any, having often tried 
it, when the horse ha,s been going very fast. — Per- 
haps it is best to fix yourself firm, aad remain in the 
carriage. 

549. To fumigate Foul Rooms* 

To one table-spoonful of common salt and a lit- 
tle powdered manganese in a glass cup, add, four 
or five different times, a quarter of a wine glass o£ 
strong vitriolic acid. At every addition of the acid 
the vapour will, come in contact with the malignant 
miasmata, and destroy them. 

650. To maJie a trull/ valuable Fumigation Pozvder*, 

N.iire, four pounds ;. sulphur, two pounds ; south- 
ern woodancSjuniper-berries, of each three pounds ; 
tar and myrrh, a pound and a half. This was tried 
at Moscow in 1772, and ten malefactors, under sen«» 
tence of death, were fumigated well with ti is in the 
Lazaretto, and were confined for three weeks in 
this abode, saturated with infection, made to sleep 
with persons infected with the plague, and even 
dead of it, and not one were infected, or made ill 
of the disease. The vapour arising from the de- 
composition of nitre by the vitriolic acid is perfect- 
ly harmless to be breathed, and may be employed 
in every situation. This was used by Mr. McGre- 
gor, after the plan, of Dr. Carmichael Smith, who 
relates, he lost^ in ten weeks at Jersey, in putrid 



PRESERVATrON OF HEALTH. £81 

fovcr, fifty men from the 88th regiment ; but begin- 
ning the fumigation, not only the fever was banish- 
ed the hospital, but that it changed the nature of the 
existing fever; all the malignant symptoms disap- 
peared, and of sixty soldiers ill of the fever not one 
died. 

It is now ascertained that common muriatic gas, 
or still better, oxymuriatic gas, is the best for de- 
Srtroying contagion,, chiefly from superior expansi- 
bility. Both are easily obtained ; place a glass, 
porcelain, or salt-glazed earthenware vessel, in an 
iron pot filled with hot sand. For muriatic gas 
pour upon two parts of common salt (muriat of soda) 
placed in the glass vessel, one and a half parts of 
vitriolic acid (that is oil of vitriol ;) — for the oxy- 
genated muriatic, on a mixture of two parts of com- 
mon salt, with one part of the black oxide of man- 
ganese in powder, pour two parts of vitriolic acid, 
diluted with. its weight of water. The muriatic gas 
occasions no inconvenience, except rusting fire-iron 
utensils, which may be previously removed. The 
oxymuriatic should not be used where there is any 
danger of its being inhaled, as it is poison when 
breathed in any considerable quantity. Guy ton 
Morveau has invented an oxymuriatic fumigating 
bottle, which will retain its power, if properly man- 
aged, for years.. It is quite certain that the com- 
TAon aromatic fumigMing Siibstances, sulphuric acid 
and the firing of gunpowder, are ineffectual. That 
the action of the sulphurous and acetous acid is 
slow and incomplete, and that acetic acid, which 
acts instantly aiid eflectually on the fetid air, cannot 
be obtained, in sufficient quantity, and sufficiently 
concentrated, except at an enormous expense. 

551. To make Balsamic and Ariti-putrid Vinegar, 

Take the best white wine vinegar, a handful of 
lavender leaves and flowers, the same quantity of 

y2L 



# 



282 HEALTH. 



sage leaves and flowers, hysop, thyme, balm, s avo- 
ry ; a good handful of salt, and two heads of gar- 
lic ; infuse these in the vinegar a fortnight or three 
weeks ; the longer the better ; and then it is found 
to be an excellent remedy for Wounds. 



SECT. II.—ON THE EYE. 

^952. General Rules for the Choice of Spectacles, and 
for the Preservation of the Sight, 

[JFVom Mr, Manias Essay on Vision,'^ 

The most general, and perhaps the best rule that 
can be given, to those who are in want of assistance 
from glasses, in order so to choose their spectacles 
that they may suit the state of their eyes, is to pre- 
fer those which shew objects nearest their natural 
?!tate, neither enlarged nor diminished, the glasses 
being near the eye, and that give a blackness and 
distinctness to the letters of a bock, neither strain- 
ing the eye, nor causing any unnatural exertion of 
vhe pupil. For no spectacles can be said to be pro- 
p'Grly accomodated to the eyes, which do not pro- 
cure them ease and rest ; if they fatigue the eyes,, 
we may 'safely conclude, either that we have no oc- 
casion for them, or that they are ill made, or not 
proportioned to our sight. 

Though, in the choice of spectacles, every one 
must finally determine for himself, which are the 
glasses through which he obtains the most distinct 
vision ; yet some confidence should be placed in the 
judgment of tlie artist of whom they are purchased, 
and some attention paid to his directions. By try- 
ing many spectacles, the eye is fatigued, as the pupil 
varies in size with every different glass, and the 
eye endeavours to acconimodalc itself to every 



ON THE EVE. 23S 

chonge that is produced. Hence, the purchnser oft- 
en fixes upon a pair of spectacles not the best a- 
dapted to his sight, but those which seem to relieve 
him most, while his eyes are in a forced and unna- 
tural state, and, consequently, when he gets home^ 
and they are returned to their natural state, he finds 
what he has chosen fatiguing and injurious to his- 
sight. 

')53. Of Preservers^ and Rules for the Prescrvatiorc 

of Sight. 

Though it may be impossible to prevent the ab- 
solute decay of sight, whether arising from age, 
partial disease, or illness, yet, by prudence and 
good management, its natural failure may certainly 
be retarded,. and the general habits of the eyes 
strengthened, which good purposes will be promot- 
ed by a proper attention to the following maxims : — • 

1. Never to sit for any length of time in absolute 
gloom, or exposed to a blaze of light. The reasons 
on which this rule is founded, prove the impropri- 
ety of going hastily from one extreme to the other, 
whether of darkness or of light, and shew us that a 
southern aspect is improper for those whose sight 
is weak and tender. 

2. To avoid reading small print. 

. 3. Not to read in the dark ; nor, if the eyes be 
disordered, by candlc-ligiit.* Happy those who learn 
this lesson betimes, and begin to preserve their sight 
before they are reminded by pain of the necessity 
of sparing them. The frivolous attention to a quar- 
ter of an hour in the evening, has cost numbers the 
perfect and comfortable use of their eyes for many 
years; the mischief is eiiected imperceptibly, the 
consequences are inevitable. 

4. The eye should not be permitted to dwell on 
glaring ol)jects, more particularly on first waking in 
a morning 5 the sun should not, of course, be suffer- 



284 HEALTH. 

ed to shine in the room at that time, and a moderate 
quantity of light only be admitted. It is easy to see 
that, for the same reasons, the furniture of a bed 
should be neither altogether of a white or red co- 
lour; indeed, those whose eyes are weak would 
find considerable advantage in having green for the - 
furniture of their bed-chamber. Nature confirms the 
propriety of the advice given in this rule; for the 
light of the day comes on by slow degrees, and 
green is the universal colour she presents to our 
eyes. 

5. The long-sighted should accustom themselv^es- 
to read with rather less light, and somewhat nearer- 
to the eye than what they -naturally like, while those-- 
that are short-sighted should rather use themselves- 
to read with the book as far off as possible ; by this ' 
means both would improve and strengthen their 
sight ; while a contrary course will increase its na- 
tural imperfections., 

There is nothing which preserves the sight longer^ 
than always using, both in reading and writing, that 
moderate degree of light which k best suited to the ■ 
eye; too little strains them, too great a quantity^ 
dazzles and confounds them. The eyes are lesss 
hurt by the want of light than by the excess of it;- 
too little light never does any harm, unless they are. 
strained by efforts to see objects to v/hich the de- 
gree of light is inadequate :. but too great a quanti- 
ty has, by its own power, destroyed the sight. Thus- 
many have brought on themselves a cataract, by 
frequently looking at the snn, or a fire ; others have- 
lost their s^ight by being brought too suddenly from- 
an extreme o.f darkness into the blaze of the day. 
How dangerous the looking on bright luminous ob- 
jects is to the sight, is evident from its eiTects in those' 
countries which are covered the greater part of the 
year with snow, where blindness is exceedingly fre-- 
quent, and where tha traveller is obliged to covcp 



ON THE EYE. 235 

his eyes with crape, to prevent the dangerous and 
often sudden effects of too much light ; even the un- 
tutored savage tries to avoid the danger, by framing 
a little wooden case for his eyes, with only two nar- 
row slits. A momentary gaze at the sun, will, for a 
lime, unfit the eyes for vision, and render them in- 
sensible to impressions of a milder nature. 

The following cases, from a small tract on the 
" Fabric of the Ei/e,^^ are so applicable to the pre- 
sent article, as to want no apology for tiieir insertion 
here, though, if any were necessary, the use they 
will probably be of to those whose complaints arise 
from the same or similar causes, would, I presume, 
be more than sufficient. 

" A lady from the country, coming to reside in 
St. James' Square, was afflicted with a pain in her 
eye, and a decay in her sight. She could not look 
upon the stones, when the sun was upon them, with- 
out great pain. This, which she thought was one of 
the syruptoms of her disorder, was the real cause 
of it. Her eyes, which had been accustomed to the 
verdure of the country and the green of the pasture 
grounds before her house, could not bear the silent 
and unnatural glare of light reflected from the 
stones ; she was advised to place a number of small 
orange trees in the windows, so that their tops might 
hide the pavement, and be in a line with the grass. 
She recovered, by this simple change in the light, 
without the assistance of any medicine; though her 
eyes were before on the verge of little less than 
biindness.'? 

A gentleman of the law had his lodgings in Pall 
Mall on the north side, his front windows were ex- 
posed to the full noon sun, while the back room, 
having no opening but into a small close yard, sur- 
rounded w^ith high walls, was very dark ; hejyrote 
in the back room, and used to conse from that in*' 
the front room to breakfast, <|8|g!. ijis si^'.' "^^^ 



i86 HEALTri. 

weak, and he had a constant pain in the balls of his 
eyes ; he tried visual glasses, and spoke with ocu- 
lists, equally in vain. Being soon convinced, that 
the coming suddenly out of a dusky study, into the 
full blaze of sunshine, and that very often in the 
day, had been the real cause of his disorder, he 
took new lodgings, by which, and forbearing to 
write by candle-light, he was very soon cured. 

Blindness, or, at least, miserable weakness of 
sight, is often brought on by these unsuspected 
causes. Those who have weak eyes should there- 
fore be particularly attentive to such circumstances, 
since prevention is easy, but the cure may be diffi^ 
cult and sometimes impracticable^ 

When the eye sensibly flattens, all delay is dan- 
gerous ; and the longer those, who feel the want of 
assistance, defer the use of spectacles, the more 
they will increase the failure of the eye; there are 
too many who procrastinate the use of them, till at 
last they are obliged to use glasses often or twelve 
inches focus, instead of those thirty-six or forty, 
which would otherwise have suited them ; thus pre- 
ferring a real evil to avoid one that is imaginary. 
Mr. Thomin mentions several deplorable cases of 
this kind, particularly one of a lady, who through 
false shame had abstained from wearing spectacles 
so long a time, that at last it was impossible to suit 
her, but with those adapted to eyes that have been 
couched. Whereas the instances are numerous 
of those who, by using glasses of a long focus at the 
iirst approaches of long-sightedness, have brought 
back their eyes to their natural sight, and been able 
to lay aside their spectacles for years. 

554. Comfort for those nearly Blind, 

x^^ Inscrij^tioiis on dark blue-glazed paper, writteri 
"kh white ink,vhave been found very legible by 
peiv^ afflicted with bad eyes, who have had many 



A^TIDOT^S TO P0I50XS. 287 

things written in a strong plain hand for that pur- 
pose. The ink is made with gum water and flake 
white, finely powdered ; it must be often shaken, 
even whilst you are writing, as the Hake white very 
soon subsides. A common pen will do veiy well for 
the writing. A bright yellow, or dark green paper, 
is likewise very easily read. 

555* To cure a Bruise in the Eye, 

Take conserve of red roses, and also a rotten ap- 
ple, put them in a fold of thin cambric, apply it to 
the eye, and it will draw the bruise out. 



SECT. III.— ANTIDOTES TO NOXIOUS SUB- 
STANCES AND ANIMALS. 

boQ* To prevent the Effects of Poison of Lead on 
Painters^ Glaziers, c^c. 

The physicians and surgeons of the Bath Hospi- 
tal have ordered the following cautions to be made 
public, to be observed particularly by printers or 
compositors, plumbers, glaziers, painters, and other 
artificers. 

To maintain the strictest temperance respecting 
distilled spirits, which had better be altogether for- 
borne. To pay the strictest attention to cleanlitiess ; 
and never, when it can be avoided, to daub their 
hands with paint, and particularly, or never, to eat 
their meals, or go to rest, without washing their 
hands and face. Not to eat or drink in the room or 
place wherein they w< ^-k, and much less to suffer any 
food or drink to remain exposed to the fumes or dust 
of the metal in the rooms or ware-houses. As the 
clothes of persons in this line (painters particularly) 
are generally observed to be much soiled with the 
^colours they use, it is recommended to them to per- 



2B8 HEALTH* 

form their work in frocks of ticking, which may be 
frequently washed, and conveniently laid aside, 
when the workmen go to their meals, and again put 
on when they resume their work. Every business 
which can, in thes« branches, should be performed 
with gloves on the hands ; and woollen or worsted 
gloves are recommended, as they may be often 
washed, as they should always be after being soil- 
ed with paint, or even by much rubbing against the 
metal. Caution is necessary in mixing, or even in 
unpacking, the dry colours, that the fine powder 
does not get into their niouths, or be drawn in by 
by their breath. A crape covering over the face 
might be of service, but care should be taken to 
turn always the same side towards the face, and to 
clean or wash it frequently. All artificers should a- 
void touching lead when hot ; and this caution is 
especially necessary for printers or compositors, 
who have often lost the use of their limbs by hand- 
ling the types v/hen drying by the fire, after being 
washed* Glaziers putty should never be made or 
moulded by the hand* An iron pestle and mortar 
would work the ingredients together, at least equal- 
ly well, and without hazard. 

557. To prevent the baneful Effects of burning Char- 
coal, 

Set an uncovered vessel, filled with boiling water, 
over the pan containing the charcoal, the vapour of 
-which will counteract the deleterious fumes, and 
while it keeps boiling will make charcoal as safe 
^s any other fuel. 

558.. To prevent the Mischief arising from the Bit^ 
of a Mad Dog, 

Where the excision of the part bitten can be im- 
mediately performed, it is the best preventive of 
danger, or where the part can be burnt out by the 



ANTIDOTES TO POISONS, 28& 

application of a reonot iron, little clanger is likely 
to happen. Nothing else is at all to be depended on, 

559, To prevent Death from the bite of venemons 

Animals. 

From observations made by Dr» Bancroft, it is 
/ound that in South America, where the most vene- 
4110US serpents abound, that a very tight ligature, in- 
stantly made after the bite between the part bitten 
and the trunk of the body, will prevent immediate 
danger, and allow time for proper means of remedy, 
•either by excision of the whole joint, just above the 
ligature, or by topical applications upon the part 
bitten. 

For instance, if the bite should be upon the end 
of the finger, a tight ligature of small cord should 
immediately be made beyond the next joint of the 
finger. 

If the bite is on any part of the hand, the ligature 
should be made above the wrist by means of a gar- 
ter or cord, lapped several times round the arm and 
rendered as tight as possible by a small stick thrust 
betwixt the folds of the cord or garter, and twisted 
round very hard, to prevent the, circulation of the 
l^lood betwixt the part bitten and the other part of 
the body. Ligatures of the same kind, applied by 
any one present, or the man himself, will frequent- 
ly save a persons's life, where, by accident, an art- 
ery in any of the limbs is wounded, and the person 
would otherwise bleed to death before regular sur» 
gical assistance could be given. 

5G0. To counteract the baneful Effects ofi 'Poison. 

Whenever arsenic has been take: * nally, by 
-design or mistake, the best mcdicin* ■■ liphuret of 
potash (liver of sulphur) dissojvr' i \t.icr. A few 
scruples should be dissolved i a ^nt or (3i^)int 

of water, and administered''auuiic at a tin?/:, a^.the 
patient can bear it. ' ' - 



^ * > 



^90 HKALTH* 

*^ 

56 1 . Cure for the Poison of ike Deadly J^igM*- 

Shade, 

Give the patrent an emetic as soon as possible, 
then let him drink vinegar, or lemon juice, a>30ut a 
pint, diluted in an equal quantity of water, in the 
course of the day, and let him walk about to pre- 
sent sleep, which would most certainly prove fatalw 



SECT. IV.— MANAGEMENT, &c. OF THE 

TEETH. 

562. Method of causing Children to cut their Teeth 

easily. 

Feed them with an ivory spoon and boat, to be 
made thick, round, and smooth at the edges : ivory 
being of the same hardness and texture as the jaws 
and tender teeth, the gums are not hurt or injured, 
but when they are thus pressed facilitate the teeth 
in their progress ; whereas the i^ilver implements, 
feeing of a hard texture, and the edges made thin, 
"bruise and wound the gums, and make a hard seam ; 
50 that the teeth cannot make their way direct, and 
if they do cut, come irregularly ; so that the opera- 
tion of lancing is frequently absolutely necessary, 
which of course must prejudice the teeth, as some 
are exposed before the lime they are fit to cut. 

By this method, fevers, convulsions, &;c. owing to 
the teeth being not able to find their way through 
the hard seam, may be prevented. It must be often 
observed, that children cry much when feeding, sis if 
ill, or disgusted with their food, whereas it is fre- 
iquently owing to quite the contrary: for being 
hungry, and over eager to take their food, they 
press hard through eagerness, on the boat and 
spoon, which, being sharp, bruises and cuts the 



MANAGEMENT OF THE TEETH. 291 

^unis, and consequently causes great pain, which by 
he ivory implements will be prevented. Those who 
'lannotailbrd ivory may have horn or wood, or even 
pewter is greatly preferable to silver, provided the 
edges are made thick, round, and smooth. The wood- 
en sort, unless they are kept very sweet and clean, 
on that very account, are the least eligible, and 
should be made, however of box, or such hard and 
close textured wood as is the least liable to be taint- 
ed by the milky food* 

563. Rules for the Preservation of the Teeth and 

Gums, 

The teeth are bones, thinly covered over with a 
fine enamel, and this enamel is more or less substan- 
tial in different persons. Whenever this enamel is 
worn through by too coarse a powder, or too fre- 
quent cleaning the teeth, or eaten through by a 
scorbutic humour in the gums, the tooth cannot re- 
main long sound, any more than a filbert kernel 
can, when it has been penetrated by a worm. 

The teeth, therefore, are to be cleaned, but with 
gibat precaution, for if you wear the enamel off 
faster by cleaning the outside than nature sup})lies 
it within, your teeth will suffer more by this method 
than perhaps by a total neglect. A butcher's skew- 
er, or the wood with" which they are made, must be 
bruised and bit at the end, till with a little use it will 
become the softest and best brush for this purpose, 
and in general you must clean your teeth with this 
))rush alone, without any powder whatever; and 
once in a fortnight, or oftener, dip your skewer- 
bruf-.h into a few grains of gunpowder, breaking 
them first with the brush, and this will remove eve- 
ry spot and blemish, and give your teeth an incon- 
ceivable whiteness. It is almost needless to say 
that the mouth must be well washed after this ope- 
ration, for, besides the necessity of so doing, the 



^R 



S92 HEALTH. 

saltpetre, &c. used in the composition of gunpow- 
der, would, if it remains, be injurious to the gums^ 
&c. but has not, nor can have, any bad eifect in so 
short a time. 

It is necessary to observe, that very near the 
gums of people, whose teeth are otherwise good, 
Inhere is apt to grow a false kind of enamel, both 
within and without, and this false enamel or tartarj 
if neglected, pushes the gums higher and higher, till 
it leaves the fangs of the teeth quite bare, above the 
true enamel, so that sound teeth are destroyed, be- 
cause the gum has forsaken that part which is not 
sheathed and protected in consequence of such ne- 
glect. This false enamel must therefore be careful-- 
ly scaled off, for the gum will no more grow over the 
least particle of this false enamel, than the flesh will 
heal over the point of a thorn, 

564. To prevent the Tooth-Ache^ 

Clean the teeth well and regularly. 

QJob, Eas^, safe, and pleas (int Method oj" removing- 
Tartar from the Teeth, 

Raspberries or strav*'berries (particularly the lat- 
ter) frequently eaten, have- been found, by experi- 
ence, to dissolve the tartarous concretions of the 
teeth; and Linnaeus asserted, that in his own case,. 
they completely cured the gout; viz. the strawber- 
ry eaten plentifully. 

566. Tincture for the Tteth and Gums. 

Mix six ounces of tincture of Peruvian bark with 
half an ounce of sal-ammoniac. Shake them well a 
few minutes, every time, before the tincture is used. 
The method of using it is, to take a tea-spoonful 
and hold it near the teeth ; then, with a finger dip- 
ped in, rubbing the gums and teeth, which are aft- 
erward, to be washed with warm water. This tinc- 
ture not otily cures the tooth-ache, but preserves 



REMEDIES rOR LOCAL AFFECTIONS. 293 

hoih the teeth and gums, and makes them adhere to 
each other. 

567. Tooth Powder. 

To one ounce of fine powder of bark, and one 
ounce of gum myrrh, add three fourths of an ounce 
of bole armcnjc, mix these ingredients well toge- 
ther, and they will produce ^n excellent tooth pow- 
der, valuable in itself, and highly approved of by 
qiany gentlemen of the faculty. 

^Q^, £noiher. 

Pound charcoal, as fine as possible, in a mortar^ 
or grind it in a mill, then well sift it, and apply a 
little of it to the teeth about twice a week, and h 
will not only render them beautifully white, but will 
also make the breath sweet, and the gums firm and 
cftnfortable. 

If the charcoal is ground in a mortar, it is conve- 
nient to grind it in water, to prevent the dust from 
flying about. Indeed the powder is more conveniens 
for use when kept in water. 



¥ 



SECT, v.— REMEDIES FOR VARIOUS L0= 
CAL AFFECTIONS. 

5G9. Easy and fthnosjt instantaneoxts Cwc for the 

Jigue, 

When the fit is on, take a new-laid egg, in a glass 
©f brandy, and go to bed immediately. 

This very simple recipe has cured ,a great many 
after more celebrated preparations have proved un° 
successful. 

570. M* Hom^ssdh Account of his Cure for Bump 

or Scalds* 

Take half a pound of alum in powder; dissolve it. 



294 HEALTH. 

in a quart of water; bathe the burn or scald with 
a linen rag wet in this mixture; then bind the wet 
rag thereon with a slip of linen, and moisten the 
bandage with the alum water frequently, without 
removing it^ in the course of two or three days. He 
relates, that one of his workmen who fell into a 
copper of boiling liquor where he remained three 
minutes before taken out, was immediately put into 
a tub containing a saturated solution of alum in wa- 
ter, where he was kept two hours ; his sores were 
then dressed with cloths and bandages, wet in the- 
above mixture, and kept constantly moistened for 
twenty-four hours, and that in a few days he was. 
able to return to business. 

571. Remedy for Burns, 

A litde spirit of turpentine, applied to receitt- 
burns, will mitigate the pain, if not wholly remove 

it. 

572. AhotJier, 

A little sweet oil and lime water, shaken toge- 
ther, makes a liniment, which, vvhen kept applied 
to the partj will remove the pain. 

573. Efficacy of Vinegar in curing Burns and 

Scalds,. 

The application of vinegar to burns and scalds is 
to be strongly recommended. It possesses active 
powers, and is a great antiseeptic and corrector of 
putrescence and mortification. The* progressive 
tendency of burns of the unfavourable kind, or ill-* 
treated, is to putrescence and mortification. Where 
the outward skin is not broken, it may be freely us- 
ed every hour or two ; where the skin is broken, 
and if it gives pain, it must be gently used. But 
equal parts of vinegar and water, in a tepid state, 
iised freely every three or four hour^; are geaerajly 



'^^. 



REMEDIES FOR LOCAL AFFECTIOIfS. 295 

the best application, and the best rule to be direct- 
ed by. 

House-leek, either applied by itself, or mixed 
with cream, gives present relief in burns,, and othev 
external inflammation. 

574. Porter Plaster for Bruises, 

This simple^ singular, and safe remedy for bruises 
is nothing more than a gallon of porter simmered in 
an earthen vessel, till, when cool, it will be of the 
consistence of a plaster. This preparation was 
spread on an old glove, and applied round the ancle 
of a coachman, who was thrown off his box, and 
miserably bruised. In three days it so effectually 
performed a cure, that coachee was enabled to re- 
mount his box, perfectly relieved from all swelling 
and pain.. 

575. Easy Method of attracting Earwigs from the 

Ear, 

A person lately having an earwig crept into his 
ear, and knowing the peculiar fondness that insect 
has to apples, immediately applied a piece of apple 
to the ear, which enticed the creature out, and there- 
by prevented the alarming consequences which 
might otherwise have ensued.. 

576. To kill Earwigs, or other Insects, which may ac- 

cidentally have crept into the Ear* 

Let the person under this distressing circumstanco 
lay his head upon a table, the side upwards that is 
afflicted; at the same time let some friend carefully 
drop into the ear a litde sweet oil, or oil of aihiiondso 
A drop or two will be sufficient, which will instant- 
ly destroy the insect, and remove the pain, hovvever 
violent. 

577. For a Pain in the Ear, 

Gil Qf s\yeet almonds two drams, and oil of amber 



.^S.'F/^ffilfc.^ »''■■'*'• 



S9o HEALTH. 

four drops ; apply four drops of this mixture, wh^fi! 
in pain, to the part affected. 

578. Remedy for Deafness* 

Put a table-spoonful of bay salt into near half a 
pint of cold spring water, and after it has steeped 
therein twenty-four hours, (now and then shaking 
the phial), cause a small tea-spoonful of the same to^ 
be poured into the ear most affected, every night 
when in bed, for seven or eight nights successively,, 
observing to lay your head on the opposite side,^by^ 
which, the cure is generally completed. 

579. For Chilblains,. 

Soak them in warm bran and water^ then rub^ 
lliem well with mustard-seed flower ; but it will be 
better if they are done before they break. 

530. To prevent Corns from growing on the feet. 

Easy shoes ;. frequently bathing the feet in luke- 
warm v/ater, with a little salt or pot-ashes dissolved 
In it. 

The corn itself will be completely destroyed by 
]pubbing it daily with a little caustic solution of pot- 
ass, till a soft and jSexible skin is formed. 

581. Cure for Warts, 

The milky juice oi the stalks of spurge, pr of the 
common fig leave, by pei*severing application, will, 
to a certainty, soon remove them. 

582. Court Plaster, 

Take of isinglass, half an ounce; Turlington's 
(or Friar's) balsam, a drachm; melt the isinglass in 
an ounce of watery and boil the solution till a great 
part of the water is consumed ; then add gradually 
to it the balsam, stirring them well together. After 
the mixture has continued ra shc^rt tijiie 6n the fire, 
t^Jip .the vessd off, aad ^pre^i the <e;LtJended ^ilk 



REMEDIES FOR LOCAL AFrECTICJNS. 297 

with it, while it is yet fluid with heat, using a brush 
forsprcadini^ it. 

583. Certain Cure for the Cramp, 

An effectual preventive for the cramp in the calves 
of the legs, which is a most grievous pain, is to 
stretchout the heel of the leg as far as possible, at 
•the same time drawing up the toes towards the bo- 
dy. This will frequently stop a fir of the cramp 
after it has commenced ; and a person will, after a 
few times, be able, in general, to prevent the fit 
coming on, though its approach be between sleep-^. 
ing and waking* Persons subject to this complaint 
should have a board fixed at the bottom of the bed, 
against v/hich the foot should be pressed when the 
pain commeaces. 

581. Simple Remedy for the Cure of Lameness by 
Contraction, From the GentlemarCs Magazine, 
July, 1809. 

"Many years ago, while I lived at Yeovil, in 
Somersetshire, my ad^'ice as a surgeon was desired 
for a poor man's child, a boy about nine yc ^rs old, 
one of whose legs was contracted more than when 
a person is sitting in a chair ; he could neither stretch 
it out, nor move it. I prescribed a relaxing lini- 
ment, of which currier's oil was one chief ingredi- 
ent ; and ordered the parts affected to be gently 
rubbed ; but it was of no great service. I then con- 
sidered what farther might be done for his relief: 
and it came into my mind that the glovers of the 
town brought their kid-skins, which were dry, stiff, 
and hard, to be soft and supple as gloves, by rub- 
bing them with a liquor made of the yolks of egg5 
and water; hereupon I ordered the contracted parts 
of his \og to be gently rubbed two or three times a 
day with the egg liquor, and b^. this means he soon 
recovered the perfect use of his leg. The liquor I 
advise to be thus made : take the yolk of a new 



20^ HEALTH* 

laid egg, let it be beaten with a spoon to the great- 
est thinness, then, by a spoonful at a time, add 
three ounces of pure water, agitating the mixtare 
that the egg and water may be well incorporated^ 
and let it be applied by gentle friction. 

'' This remedy I have since advised in like cases 
with the like happy success ; and others to whom I 
have communicated it have found the same advan- 
tage in similar cases. I therefore, for the good of 
Those afflicted with lameness by contraction^ trans- 
xuit the above." 

Remark, — Friction is v/ell known to be useful in- 
such cases ; and whether the cure is performed by 
the egg, or the friction, is of no moment. 

58^. To make Oliver^ or Goose-grass Ointment f 
remarkable for its salutary Effects in Cases of in- 
veterate Scurvy. 

To a pound of hog's-lard melted, without spice 
or salt, put as much clivers as the lard will moisten, 
and boil them together over a slow fire ; after stir- 
ring it till it becomes a little brown, strain it through 
a cloth ; and when cold take the ointment from the 
water that will remain at the bottom, and it will be 
fit for use, 

586. Easy Method of curing the Sea Scurvy. 

The root of the garden carrot abounds in a nu- 
tritious saccharine juice, and is slightly aromatic. 
These are desirable properties against the scurvy. 
To experience the good effects of these properties, 
the roots must he' eaten raw. There is nothing un- 
pleasant in this •, on the contrary, it is what the 
common people often do by choice. These roots 
would keep well during the longest voyage, packed 
up in casks, having the interstices filled with sand. 
Each sailor might be allowed to eat one root every 
day, or every other day, according to the state of 
fiieir health, and the quantity of roots onboard. 



REMEDIES FOU LOCAL AFFECTIONS. 299 

^87. Method for the speedy Recovery of the Use of 
the Footror Hand that has been violently sprained* 
It may lead to a right management of the part 
strained, if we consider the effects of a strain when 
it is very great. 

First. Such an extension of the tendons and ves- 
sels of the muscles strained, that they cannot con- 
tract themselves to their natural lengths. 

Second. That the great elongation of the vessels, 
which deprives them of their contractile power, les- 
sens the diameter of their cavities, obstructs the 
•free course of t^ie fluids through them, makes them 
swell and become pair>ful, and incapable of their 
actual service, or of being moved by the acts of the 
will, or before the accident happened. 

These effects of violent sprains may lead us to 
conclude that the best remedies are those applica- 
tions which may best attenuate their obstructed 
fluids, recover an easy circulation of them, and suf- 
nciently contract the elongated vessels. 

For these purposes I advise vinegar, the rectified 
spirits of wine, such as are burnt in lamps, friction, 
and motion, in the following manner, viz. 
Suppose the ancle sprained. 
First. Let it be fomented with vinegar, a little 
warm, for four or five minutes at a time, once every 
four hours ; this will render the circulation of the 
fluids in the parts affected more easy, and either 
prevent its swelling or promote its subsiding. 

Second. Let the person stand three or four min- 
utes at a time on both his feet in their natural pos- 
lure, and sometimes move the sprained foot, and 
sometimes when sitting with his foot on a low stool 
let him move it this way and that, as he can bear 
It : this will contribute much to contract the over- 
stretched vessels, and to recover a due circulation 
of their fluids through them. 

Third. Let a gentle dry friction with a warm 



-»» 



300 HEALTH. 

hand be sometimes used to the parts affected, wliich 
will conduce much to the same ends. 

Two hours after every application of vinegar, let 
the parts affected be just w^elted with rectified spirits 
of wine, and gently rubbed. 

By these means, persons to whom I have advised 
them have recovered from the effects of very violent 
sprains in a few days, when others have been weeks 
in recovering, where different ways of management, 
such as continual resting of the strained foot, and 
disuse of its motions, &;c. had been recommended. 

588. To alleviate, the Pain occasioned hy the Sting 

of Giiats, 

The disagreeable itching occasioned by the sting 
of these insects may be removed by volatile alkaU, 
^r immediately rubbing and washing the part af- 
fected with cold water. 

At night, to rub with fuller's earth and water les° 
sens the inflammation. 

38 9. Simple and effectual Cure for those who may 
accidtjitally have sioalloioed a Wasp. 

Instantly, on the alarming accident taking place, 
put a tea-spoonful of common salt in your mouth, 
which will instantaneously not only kill the wasp, 
but at the same time heal the sting. 

690. To cure the Sting of a Wasp or Bee, 

To the part affected, apply oil of tartar, or solu- 
tion of potash, and it will give instant ease ; as also 
well bruised mallows. 

591. Another. 

Sweet oil, applied immediately, cures the sting 
of wasps or bees ; and if the sting is left in the 
wound, it should, if possible, be extracted with 
hair piacers. 



"REMEDIES FOR LOCAL AFFECTIONS. ^01 

■bd2, Another, 

The immediate application of Eau du Luce to 
many persons who have been stung by wasps, has 
caused the pain to subside in a few seconds, and 
after a few minutes all inflammation ceased. 

393. To cure the Sting of a Wasp or BeCo 

It has been found, by experience, that a good 
remedy for the sting of wasps and bees, is to aj^ply 
to the part affected common culinary salt, moisten- 
ed with a little water. Even in a case where the 
patient had incautiously swallowed a wasp m a 
draught of beer, and been stung by it in the wind- 
})ipe, the alarming symptoms that ensued were al- 
most instantly relieved by swallowing repeated 
doses of water, saturated with salt. The rubbing 
of the part stung, with a slice of onion, will give 
immediate ease. 

594. To prevent Sea Sickness, 

Drop a few drops of vitriolic tether lipon loaf su- 
gar, and let it dissolve in your mouth ; or drink a 
icw drops of aether, added to a solxJtion of sugar, iii 
water, to prevent its immediate evaporation. 

595. Remedy Jor a Sore Throat, 

Take rosemary tops, 'about a handful, put them 
iiito a bason, aiid pour a pint of boiling hot ver- 
juice upon it; then cover it pver with a tin funnel, 
the broad side downwards, and the steam will come ^ 
through the nozzle of the funnel ; then hold your * 
mouth over the steam till it is gone down your 
throat. 

N. B. Be very careful that you do not put your 
mouth too close to the funnel, as it may scald h^ 
but let the steam go down your throat as much as 
possible, and repeat it as often as necessary. 



A A 



302 i^' HEALTH. 

596. A common Drink for a Sore Throat. 
Take two ounces of Turkey figs, and the like 

quantity of raisins of the sun, and cut them small; 
two ounces of French or pearl barley, boiled in 
three pints ofspring water till it comes to a quart, 
and then strain through a sieve. To be taken 
■warm. Boil it slowly over a gentle fire. 

597. Gargle for a Sore Throat, ■ 

Take half a pound of Turkey figs, put them into 
a quart of spring water, and let them simmer over a 
.slow fire till better than one-half is wasted ; in the 
mean time, take a large lemon, cut it in slices, and 
between every slice put some brown sugar-candy, 
and let it stand before the fire to roast ; then strain 
the figs, and squeeze them through a coarse cloth, 
and put the juice of the lemon into it. 

N. B. Gargle the throat with it warm, ajid the of- 
tener the better. 

598. A Receipt for a Cough. 

Take a glass of spring water and put into it a 
j^.poonful of the syrup ofhorehound, and mix with 
it nine gr ten drops of the spirit of sulphur. 

599. An excellent Styptic. 

The outside woof of silk-worms has been tried 
with great success by several people, more espe- 
cially by a lady, who, in mending a pen, cut her 
thumb to the bone, and through part of the nail ; it 
"bled profusely ; but, by trying this styptic, and bind- 
ing up the wound, the hemorrhage stopped, and the 
wound healed in three days. 

600. A new and useful Styptic. 

Take brandy, or common spirit, two ounces ; 
jCastile soap two drachms, pot-ash one drachm ; 
scrape the soap fine, and dissolve it in the brandy : 
then add the pot-asL and mix it well together, ar/' 



REMEDIES rOR LOCAL AFFECTIONS. 30J 

Kce\) i( close stopped from the air in a vial. When 
you apply i', warm it in a vessel, or dip pledges or 
lint into it, and the blood will immediately congeaio 
It operates by coa ovulating the blood, both a con- 
sidci-abic way within the vessels, as well as the ex- 
travasatcd blood without, and restraining, at t-iic 
same time, the mouth of the vessels. 

it forms a valuable embrocation, in ca^cs of tii- 
niui's, or swellings from bruise^i, by being frequent- 
ly rubbed on the part. It is alao used in a siniilay 
manner for rheumatic pains. 

GOl. Infallible Remedi/ for stopping Bleeding of the. 

Nose, 

One ounce of sugar of lead, and half an ounce of 
green vitriol, to be triturated in a glass mortar ; add 
to these half a pint of spirits of wine. Of this com- 
position, young people, from Xqw to twelve years oi 
age, arc tor take ten or twelve drops ; patients undei 
twenty years, fourteen or fifteen drops, and grown per- 
sons, twenty drops, four times each, in a spoonful 
of wine or brandy. Some \QYy interesting trials, iu 
the most obstinate cases, have been made with this 
mixture, with the greatest success. 

Remark. — No salt of lead should be taken mic/-- 
natly without medical advice. It is a powerful 
flrug ; that is, if the proper precautions or propor- 
tions arc neglected or exceeded, it is a strong poi- 
son. The green vitriol cap have no other effect 
iiian to decompose pait of iJie sugar or acetite 
< f lead ; that is, to convert the acetite, in part, into 
riilphatof lead, which is insoluble; and nearly all 
the green vitriol, or sulphat of iron, into acetite of 
iron. 

G02. For curing JVorms in the Hitman Body, 

Take senna leaves, well bruised, half "a pound 5 
olive oil, twelve ounces •, digested together in a sd^nd 



304- HEALTH. 

heat four or five days : then, by a strong expression 
force the oil from the faeces, which reserve by itself. 

N. B. In the most obstinate worm case, which 
elndes the. force of mercurials, and baffles the ef- 
forts of the most famous specifics, this successfully 
kills worms, grubs, and ascarids (which last kind 
cause extreme itching,) and by stools expel them. 

Dose : — one spoonful, fasting, and persevere in it. 

603. To make an Improved Tincture of Bark. 

Red bark grossly powdered, one ounce ; of snake 
root, in powder, six drachms ; sairron, one drachm 
and a half ; cochineal, ten grains ; orange peel, one 
ounce and a half. Steep the above articles in ono 
pint of the best brandy, and you will have a tine- 
lure equally good as the famous Dr. Huxham'S. 

G04. Observations on Leeches, and their Use, 

The general demand for these useful reptiles, and 
die high price at which they are now sold, induces 
us to give some particulars on taking, preserving, 
and applying them, from a person who has attend- 
*)d to this business. 

The large brown leech is the only kind in use ; 
:hey are in general from two inches to six, though 
ihey are capable of m,uch greater extension and con- 
traction ; sometimes they are seen darting through 
the water with great swiftness, at which time they 
are very long, at other times they will contract them 
selves into a form almost round. Tiiey are much,, 
rounder in body than the horse leech (which, 
contrary to common report, will not fasten to the 
human body,) with a degree of taper towards each 
end. The colour is black, and. brown stripes or. 
their backs ; the belly is covercxl v/ith dark brown, 
interspersed with light brown spots. The method 
of catching them usually employed in England, ii 
agitating the waters where they are contained, which 
occasions them to float upon the surface thcrcoi. 



OBSERVATIONS ON LEECHES. 505 

when, wiih a net made for the purpose, ihcy arc se- 
CLTcd. Other methods arc employed, which would 
be tedious and unnecessary to relate. They are 
viviparous, bringing forth their young with all their 
j)ower, capable of acting in every respect in which 
this aniaial is dislinguished. The time of fecundi- 
ty is in the months of April and May, the latter end 
of August and September;: — the number of young 
ones a single leech brings fortli in one year can 
hardly be ascertained, though it'is very numerous 5 
for when the leech catchers rob a pond of all large 
enough for use, if nothing happens to obstruct fe- 
cundation, in two years afterwards they will find it 
largely stored with abundance of line leeclies, and 
a much increased number of small ones ; tliis is 
particularly found to be the case, from the method 
which some country |)eople have adopted to obtain 
leeches ats an rsclusive property, in order to this, 
^hey make a pond, near their house, about three 
Feet deep, twenty wide, and tliirty long; if they 
cannot conveniently form one with a sandy bottom, 
they make the pond. a littlt; deeper, in which they 
deposit a few loads of sandy earth. In this pond, 
when filled with water, they put tiicir leeches aboui 
April, and without any further trouble or expense, 
ihcy obtain, at the proper season, a large supply 
of leeches. 

Leeches may, with care, be preserved healthy 
and good for }ear3 in pans : during the summei 
season not more than two hundred should be kept to- 
gether ; in winter, double that number may with 
equal propriety. The vessel they are kept in should 
be an earthen pan, that will contain about three 
gallons of water, which should not be more than 
half hlled with water ; for I have found, by expcri-- 
ence, that it is congenial to their nature to have a 
place out of the water, which they may retreat to 
at pleasure ; this is proved by their often hanging- 

A A 2 



306 HEALTH. 

in clusters round the top of the pan. From May. 
till September their water should be changed, at 
least, every other day ; in winter every fourth day^ 
The best water to keep them in is spring water, as 
being least disposed to putrescency. I have of late 
}3uta little moss amongst leecheSj which practice I 
would recommend, for they are very much enamour- 
ed with it, perhaps from its resembling, in some 
measure, their native weeds ; they creep through 
it, arid by that mSans clear themselves of slime, 
which in the v/arm weather accumulates around 
them, and,, unless removed by timely changes of 
water, will' be productive of disease. During hot 
■Weather they should be kept in as cool a place as ^ 
possible, and in the winter season place them w^hero 
the water may preserve thatt degree of warmth it 
possesses in summer. When you put fresh water 
to them, during the cold i¥cather, it should be de- 
prived of that intense coldness which it possesses 
at that season of the year, by warming it in the-- 
smallest degree. The leech, as has been before 
said, feeds upon insects in its native waters, but = 
may be, as above hinted, kept in water only for 
■years, though they dwindle by keeping 5 they re- 
main healthy, and will take with as much avidity as 
those recently . taken from the waters, provided 
they are v^^ell- attended to, with respect to changing., 
iheir water agreeably to the rules laid down. 

The mode which 1 have found, by copious expe- 
rience, to be infinitely the best (being attended 
with quickness, certainty, and efficacy,) is as fol- 
lows : Let the part be first carefully washed clean 
with warm milk and water ; if very dirty and re- 
quires it, a little soap may also be used ; when the 
part is thus washed and wiped dry, rub over the 
part a litUe milk, then see that your leech is wiped 
^y with a smooth cloth, which being done, take it 
^ith your fiiiigers by the middle, and apply its 



OBSERVATpNS ON LEECHES. » 307' 

mouth to the very spot you wish; you will, per- 
haps, find it, at first, twist and extend itself in your 
lingers, and then wish to attach itself to some con- 
trai-y part; but as repeatedly as it extends itself 
around, or attempts to fix upon a wrong situation, 
you must as repeatedly draw it back and re-apply 
it to the proper part; by so doing you will find it 
vv'ill presently seize the precise spot wished for : 
when you find this you must not hastily let the leech 
go, for they will sometimes seem to seize the part 
with great avidity, and in a few seconds let go their 
hold; but when you arc convinced the leech has 
good hold,\you may then let go, and leave it to the 
e m p 1 y m e n t i t c ti j 03' s . . 

I here find it necessary to remark, that the small' 
end of the leech is the head, whereas I have repeat- 
edly observed, that the greater part of the people, 
from the tail of the leech being much broader than . 
1 he head, mistake the one for the other, and there- k 
l)y occasion themselves a grcai deal of fruitless la- 
Lour. W-lien the animal has fastened himself he 
generally expands the tail, and sometimes attaches 
it very firmly to another part of the skin, but with- 
out the least pain to the part ; this hold, I have ob- 
served, the leech does not quit till it is charged 
with blood, and then drops off all at once. 

1 would here observe, that the quantity of blood . 
the leech imbibes, is in general insufficient to an- 
swer the purpose : therefore, when the leech comes 
ofl^, it is necessary to have a bason of warm water, 
and a spunge or rag, to keep bathing the orifice, in 
order to encourage the bleeding for an hour or two ; 
if the orifice seem disposed to bleed any longer than 
wished for, apply a piece of lint, three or four times 
double, and bandage it up. 

605. Singularly useful Properties of Garlic, 
The smell of garlic, which is formidable to many 



INiv, 



ladies, is, perhaps, the most infallible remedy in the- 
?7orId against the vapours, and all the nervous dis- 
orders to which women are subject. Of this (says- 
St, Pierre) I have had repeafced experience. 

GOG. The Usefulness of two common Plants* 

Every plant in the corn-field possesses virtues 
particularl}^ adapted to the maladies incident to the 
Gondiuon of the labouring man. The poppey cures 
the pleurisy, procures sleep, stops hcemorrhages,. 
and spitting of blood* Poppy seeds form an emul- 
sion similar to that from almonds in every respect 
when prepared in the same manner. They also 
yield, by expression, fine salad oil, like that from 
Florence. The blue bottle is diuretic, vulnerary, 
cordial, and cooling ; an antidote to the stings oC 
venomous insects, and a remedy for inflammation 
of the eyes. 



CflAPTER XXVIL ' 



INK. 



607.' To make Ink. 

To three quarts of water add three pints of white * 
ivine vinegar ; fifteen ounces of blue galls slightly ! 
"bruised ; let these stand near a fire six days ; then ] 
put in six ounces of green copperavS, and seven \ 
ounces of gum arable finely pounded ; permit the 
whole to remain near a fire six days more, and be 
fi-equently stirred up ; strain the liquor through a 
fine cloth, and bottle it up for use. 

Remark. — The vinegar improves the colour of the 
ink, but it h^ the troublesome eiFcct of destroy- 



i^"K. .'309 

•iig the pen \eiy quicidy. Pronct says, the best ink 
is made by digesting the infusion of galls in pure 
xvater, upon iron. That process certainly makes a 
very good ink. The proj)er proportion of gum is of 
i:our5e added. 

''^08. To make One Gallon of Btack Writing Ink,. 

Into a glazed stone jar or pitcher put one pound 
'A Aleppo galls, slightly braised ; then add one gal- 
lon of rain water, nearly of a boiling heat ; let these- 
«tand together for fourteen days upon the kitchen 
liearth, or moderately warm ; 'after that time add 
four ounces of green copperas or sulphate of iron, 
four ounces of logwood chips or shavings, one ounce 
of alum, one ounce of sugar-candy, and four ounces 
of gum arable or senega). Let the whole remain 
ten or twelve days longer in a moderate heat, the 
mouth of the vessel slightly- covered with papero 
Stir the ingredients well with a stick twice a day 
during the whole time ; then strain off the ink 
through linen or flannel, bottle it, pour a little 
brandy on the top of the ink in each bottle, then cork 
them well, and keep them for use iu a place of tem- 
perate heat. 

This ink may be depended upon as excellent, 
durable, and preserving the writing ail a deep 
black. 

N. B. The best galls for the purpose are those 
which are dark coloured, heavy, and free from grub 
holes. 

GOO. Redlnk. 

Take a quarter of a pound of the best Brazil 
wood, (get it in the log if possible, and rasp or shave 
it yourself) one ounce of cream of tartar, and one 
ounce of alum ; boil these ingrediciits in a quart of 
clear water till half is consumed, then add to the 
ink, when filtered hot, one ounce of s^um^arabic and 
one ounce of fine sugar= 



310 lA'K. 

A liitle salt added will prevent it from becomrug 
mouldy. 

610. To prevent Ink from maulding, 

Haifa dozen cloves, bruised with gum arable, aro 
to be put into the bottle. If a very fine ink is want- 
ed, white wine, or vinegar andwater, should be U3^ 
cd instead of water alone. 

611. To make Indian Ink* 

Put six lighted wicks into a dish of oil ; hang atr 
iron or tin concave cover over it so as to receive all 
ihe smoke ; when there is a sufficient quantity of 
soot settled to the cover, then take it oflT gently with 
a feather upon a sheet of paper, and mix it up with 
gum tragacanth to a proper consistence. 

N. B. The clearest oil makes the finest soot, con- 
sequently the best ink. 

612. To make China I)ik, 

Take dried black horse-beans, burn them to a 
powder, mix them up with gum arable water, and 
bring them to a mass ; press it well and let it dry. 

til 3. Substihite for Indian Ink, 

Boil parchment slips, or cuttings of glove leather^ 
in water, till it forms a size, which, when cool, be- 
comes of the consistence of jelly ; then, having 
blackened an earthen plate, by holding it over the 
rlnme of a candle, mix up, with a camel hair pen- 
cil, the line lamp-black thus obtained, with some of 
the above size, ,while the plate is still warm. This 
black requires no grinding, and produce an ink of 
the very colour, which works as freely with the 
pencil, and is as perfectly transparent as the best 
Indian ink; it possesses the advantage of furnish- 
ing artists with a substitute for that article, which 
may be prepared in situations where it miglU be- 
difficult to obtain the ink itself. 



(>14. German Black for Printers, 

Take the lees of port wine, dry and burn them: 
add thereto good ivory, black, the stones of cher- 
ries, |)lums, or other stone fruit, burnt in close ves- 
fi^els, and fine soft charcoal n:iade from burnt wil- 
low ; grind the whole well together into one m;iss. 
from which the best printing ink may be formed. 

613. Permanent Writing Ink, 

As common writing ink is susceptible of being 
effaced ~by oxygenated muriatic acid, and as the 
knowledge of this fact may be abused to very frau- 
dulent purposes, the following composition for inks, 
absolutely indestructible, is recommended to the 
notice of the curious. 

Boil one ounce of Brazil wood, and three ounces 
of nut-galls, in 46 ounces of water, till they shall 
be reduced to thirty ounces in all. Pour this decoc- 
tion, while it is yet hot, upon half an ounce of sul- 
phate of iron, or martial vitriol, a quarter of an 
ounce of gum arable, and a quarter of an ounce of 
white sugar. After these substances are dissolved, 
add to the solution one ounce and a quarter of indi- 
go, finely pulverized with three quarters of an ounce 
of lamp-black, very pure, of smoke black, previ- 
ously diluted in one ounce of the best brandy. 

The following receipt is still more simple : Boil 
one ounce of Brazil wood with twelve ounces of wa- 
ter, and half an ounce of alum ; continue the ebulli- 
tion till the liquid mixture shall have been reduced 
to eight ounces; then add an ounce of the black 
oxide of manganese, which has been reduced by 
decantation to extreme fineness, and, in mixture 
with it, half an ounce of gum arabic. 

Remark, — The chief advantage of this ink (said 
to be proposed by Schever) is, that it is in part a 
printer's ink : the black oxide of manganese, and 
the lamp-black, not being affected by acids, and 



312 fXK. 

the indigo in powder but slightly, so that they muu 
be effaced by rubbing or washing off, and not by 
solution. The ink, however, is not absolutcli/ indes- 
tructible, nor equal to the common indelible ink, 
■which may be used on paper, as well as silk, linen, 
and cotton cloths. 

6 to. Permanent Red Ink for marking Linen, 

This useful preparation, which was contrived by 
tlic late learned and ingenious Dr. Smellie, ofEd- 
dinburgh, who v/as originally a printer in that city-, 
may be used either Vk'ith types, a hair pencil, or 
even with a pen. Take half an ounce of vermilion, 
and a dram of salt of steel ; let them be finely levi- 
gated with linseed oil, to the thickness or limpidity 
required for the occasion. This has not only a very 
good appearance ; but v/ill, it is said, be found per- 
fectly to resist the effects of acids, as well as of afi 
alkaline leys. It may be made of other colours, by 
substituting the proper articles instead of vermiK 
ion. 

617. To make Sympathetie, or Invisible Ink, 

Let quick-lime be quenched in common water, 
and while quenching let some red orpiment be add- 
ed to it, (this, however, ought to be done by placing 
warm ashes under it for a whole day), and let the 
liquor be filtered and preserved in a glass bottle 
well corked. Then boil litharge of gold, well pound- 
ed, for half an hoar, with vinegar, in a brass vessel, 
and filter the whole through paper, and preserve it 
also in a bottle closely corked. If you write any 
thing with this last water, with a clean pen, the 
writing will be invisible when dry ; but if it be 
\vashed over with the first water, itvvill become in- 
stantly black. And it is wonderful, that though 
sheets of paper without number, and even a board, 
"be- placed between the invisible writing and the se 



VALNT PAINTINGS. 313 

:oncl liquid, it will have the same effect, and tura 
the writing black, penetrating tha wood and paper, 
without leaving any traces of its action, which is 
certainly surprising. 

618. To make Siuchwn, or Perpetual Ink of (he 
Ancients^ for writing on Stone, 

This ink, or stuchum, as it was formerly called, 
is made by mixing about three parts pitch, with one 
of lamp-black, which are to be incorporated by 
melting the pitch into the lamp-black. This comno- 
^ition they used in a melted stale, by filling uj) the 
betters previously marked on stones, which would, 
unless any extraordinary violence was used, endure 
as long as the stone itself. 



CHAPTER XXVIII. 

PAIXr—PAIjrriXGS— MANAGEMENT OP 
COLOURS. 



■u 1 9. Directions for painting Hooms, Rails, ^rc. 

Red lead must be ground with linseed oil, and 
used very thin, it being the priming or first colour- 
ing ; wh':ri used, some drying oils must be put to it. 

620. To prepare drying Oil and Pavit, 

Put a Scf)ts pint (two English quarts) of linseed 
oil in a pa [i, with a pint of burnt umber; boil it gent- 
ly two hours ; prepare this without doors, for fear of 
fire in the house ; when it settles it will be fit for 
use; pour the clear off, and use it with the white 
lead; the dregs will do for the red lead. 



B B 



314 fAINT FAINTINHS. 

€21. For the second Priming i 

Take a hundred weic^ht of white lead, with aft 
equal quantity of Spanish white in bulk but not in 
weight; grind them pretty stiff with linseed oil; 
when you use it, put in some of the above-mention- 
ed drying oil, with a little oil of turpentine ; but dp 
not lay on this till the first coat is very dry. 

622. To make Putty andjinish Painting, 

Mix a quantity of whitening, very stiff, with lin- 
seod oil, and drying oil, equal quantities ; when 'ti 
cannot be wrought with the hand, more whitening 
must be added, and beat up with a mallet, till it h 
stiifer than dough ; when the second priming is dry, 
stop all holes and cracks with the putty ; when hard 
and dry lay on the last paint, viz. grind the best 
while lead very stiff with linseed oil ; when used put 
some of the drying oil to it, and oil of turpentine i 
this will preserve out-works a long time, 

N. B. For rooms and places within doors, your 
own fancy must direct you to the colours, only pro 
ceed as above. 

623. To prepare Blue Colour from Verdigris, 

Take sal-ammoniac and verdigris, of each six 
ounces ; mix them well together with water of tar» 
tar to a paste ; put this into a vial, and stop it close ; 
let it stand for several days, and you will have a fine 
blue colour. 

624. Lead-coloured Paint for jpre serving Iron. 

Take a small quantity of common litharge, and 
place it over the fire in a shovel ; afterwards, when 
sufficiently warm, scatter over it a little flower of 
brimstone, which will instantly convert it into a 
blackish colour, and which, when ground in oil, 
makes a good dark lead colour. It dries quick, gets 
remarkably hard, and resists the weather better than 
any other lead colour. 



MANAGEMENT OF COLOURS. 315- 

25. Method of preparing a cheap Sabstiiute for Oil 
Pamt, as durable as that prepared zvith Oil, and 
free from any bad Smell, 

Take fresh curds, and bruise the lumps on a 
grinding-slone, or in an earthen pan or mortar, with, 
a spatula. After this operation, put them into a pot 
with an equal quantity of lime well quenched, and 
hecome thick enough to be kneaded; stir this mix- 
ture well, without adding water, and you will soon 
obfniu a white? colom-cd iluid, which maybe applied 
with as much facility as varnish, and which dries ve- 
ry speedily. But it must be employed the same 
6?^y^ as it will become too thick the day following. 

Ochre, Armenian bole, and all colours which 
hold with lime, may be mixed with it, according to 
the colour which you wish to give the- wood; but 
care must be taken that the addition of colour to the 
first mixture of curds and lime may contain very 
little water, else the painting will be less durable. 

When two coats of this paint have been laid on, 
it may be polished with a piece of woollen cloth or 
other proper substance, and it will become as bright 
as varnish. It is certain that no kind of painting 
can be so cheap ; but it possesses, besides, othcV 
advantages ; in the same day two coats may be^ 
laid on and polished, as it dries speedily and has 
no smell. M it be required to give it more durabili- 
ty in places exposed to moisture, do over the paint- 
ing, after it has been polished, with the white of an 
egg^. This process will render it as durable as the 
best oil painting. 

626. Cheap black Paint from earthy and mineral' 
Substances. 

Take of the biueish marly stone, found in copper, 
tin, and lead mines, (principally in the copper 
l/iines) and of iron stone, and of fine blue marie of 
gjate, and of ochre, equal quantities, and reduce 



Jlo PASNT PAINTI^^GS. 

them by grinding or pounding to a very fine powder. 
To any given quantity of the above-mentioned ma- 
terials, when put together, add one eighth of their 
Vi'cight of lamp-black, so that there will be seven 
eighths of the earthy or mineral substances, and one- 
eighth of the lamp-black. This produces a superior 
black paint for wood, iron, canvas, or any other 
thing for which paint is used; but for the purpose 
of using such paint, it must be ground (in the usual 
manner of grinding colours) with oil, as commonly 
done by colourmen or painters (their boiled oil is 
to be preferred) ; and the same when mixed and 
made up as other paint generally is, may be used 
with the brush as in common |3j'acticc. Ivory black 
may be substituted, but for general purposes the 
lamp-black is preferable. 

627. To make hrozcn Paint, 

Take green muriate of copper, diluted with about 
ten parts of distilled or rain water; then pour in, 
prussiate of lime until the whole is precipitated ; the 
prussiate of copper is then to be well washed, with 
cold water, on the filter^ and to be dried without 
heat, 

628. Composition for preservitig Weather Boardings 
Pailing^ and all other Works liable to be injured by^ 
the Weather, 

Lime, it is well known, when well burnt, will 
ioon become slacked by exposure in the open air, 
ur even if confined in a situation not remarkably 
dry, so as to crumble of itself into powder. This is 
called air-slacked lime, in contradistinction to that 
which is slacked in the usual way, by being mixed 
with water. For the purpose of making the present 
useful composition to preserve all sorts of wood- 
work exposed to the vicissitudes of the weather, 
take three parts of this air-slacked lime, two of wood 
ashesy and one of fine sand ; pass them through a 



MAKAGEMENT OF COLOURS. 3J7- 

fine sieve, and adJ as much linseed oil to the com- 
position as will bring it to a proper consistence for 
working with a painter's brush. As particular care 
must be taken to mix it perfectly, it should be 
ground on a stone slab with a proper muller, in the- 
same manner as painters grind their white lead, 
&LC.. ; but, where these conveniences are not at hand, 
the ingredients may be mixed in a large pan, and 
well beat n.p with a wooden spatula. Two coats of- 
this composition being necessary, the first may be 
i-atlier thin ; but the second should be as thick as 
it can conveniently be worked. This most excellent, 
conipostion tor preserving wood when exposed to- 
the injuries of the weather, is highly preferable to 
the customary method of laying on tar and ochre. 
It would be much improved by melting one-half of 
coal tar with the linseed oil. 

629, To prepare ilicbeauliful Colour called JSfap I es 

Yello7v,- 

The beautiful yellow colour, commonly sold un- 
d-cr the name of Naples yellow, is well known. 
Those who buy it arc often imposed upon, hy being 
toid that it is a substance produced from "Mount 
Vesuvius ; but it is now known to be a composition 
by art. The process is composed of the following 
substances, viz. one .pound of antimony, one pound 
and a half of lead, half an ounce of alum, and the 
same quantity of common salt. The antimony and 
lead should be calcined together, afterwards the 
other ingredients added, and then the whole mix- 
ture undergoes asecond calcination, 

630. Another Method. 

To procure this colour, take twelve ounces of 
white lead, three ounces of diaphoretic antimony, 
alum and sal-ammoniac, of each one ounce. All these 
must be ground together dry, upon a levigating 

B B 2 



S\B PAINT — PAINTINGS. 

Stone ; they must then be put into an open crucible^ 
and exposed to a gentle fire for some hours ; the fire 
is afterwards to be increased during a certain time; 
and finally the mixture is to continue three hours in 
a degree of heat sufficient to keep the crucible red 
hot. The mass will then be found to have acquired 
a beautiful yellow colour. If it is wished to be more 
cf the colour of gold, a greater quantity of diaphor- 
etic antimonv and sal-ammoniac must be added to 
the-'bther ingredients. 

It is probable that, instead of diaphoretic anti- 
mony, the grey calx of antimony might be made 
Vtse of. 

631. Mrs, Hooker'' s Method of preparing and apply-^ 
uig a Composition for Painting in Imitation of the 
Ancient 'Grecian Mariner. 

Put into a glazed earthen vessel four ounces and. 
a half of gum-arabic, and eight ounces, or half :i 
pint (wine measure) of cold spring water; when 
the gum is dissolved, stir in seven ounces of gum- 
mastic, which has been washed, dried, pickled, and 
beaten fine. Set the earthen vessel containing the 
gum.-water and gum-mastic over a slow fire, contin- 
ually stirring and beating them hard with a spoon, 
in order to dissolve the gum-mastic ; when suffici- 
ently boiled, it will no longer appear transparent, 
but will become opaque and stiff, like a paste. As 
soon as this is the case, and the gum-water and 
mastic are quite boiling, without taking them off the 
fire, add five ounces of white wax, broken into small 
pieces, stirring and beating the different ingredients 
together, till the wax is perfectly melted, and has 
boiled. Then take the composition off the fire, as 
boiling it longer than necessary would only harden 
the wax, and prevent its mixing so well afterwards 
-with water. When the composition is taken off the 
Sre, and ia the glazed earthen vessel it should be 



MANAGEMENT OF COLOURS. 319 

beaten hard, and whilst hot (but not boiling) mix 
with it, by degrees, a pint (wine measure) or six- 
teen ounces more of cold spring water: then strain 
the composition, as some dirt will boil out of the 
gum-mastic, and put it into bottles ; the composition, 
if properly made, sliould be like a cream, and the 
colours when mixed with it as smooth as with oil. 
The method of using it, is to mix with the composi- 
tion, upon an earthen pallet, such colours, in pow- 
der, as are used in painting with oil, and such a 
quantity of the composition to be mixed with the 
colours as to render them of the usual consistency 
of oil colours; then paint with faiy water. The co- 
lours, when mixed with the composition, may be 
laid on either thick or thin, as may best suit your 
subject; on which account, this composition is ve- 
ry advantageous, where any particular trsnsparen- 
cy of colouring is required ; but in mo^t cases it an- 
swers best if the colours b- laid on thick, and they 
require the same use of the brush, as if painting 
with body colours, and the same brashes as used in 
oil painting. The colours, if ground dry, when 
mixed with the composition, may be used by put- 
ting a little fair water over them ; but it is less 
trouble to put some water when the colours are ob- 
served to be growing dry. In painting with this 
composition, the colours blend without diificulty 
when wet, and even when dry the tints may easily 
be united by means of a brush and a very small 
quantity of fair water. When the j)ainting is*^ finish- 
ed, put some white wax into a glazed earthen vessel 
over a slow fire, and when melted, but not boiling, 
with a hard brush cover the painting with the wax, 
and when cold take a moderately hot iron, such as is 
used for ironing linen, and so cold as not to hiss, if 
touched with any thing wet, and draw it lightly over 
the wax. The painting will appear as if under a 
cloud till the wax is perfectly cold ; as also, what- 



O^O' PAINT PAINTINGS. 

ever the picture is painted upon is quite cold ; but 
i(, when so, the painting should not appear suffici- 
ently clear, it may be held before the fire, so far. 
from it as to melt the wax but slowly ; or the wax 
may be melted by holding a hot poker at such a dis-- 
tance as to melt it gently, especially such parts of 
the picture as should not appear sufficiently trans- 
})arcnt or brilliant ; for the oitener heat is applied' 
to the picture, the greater will be the transparency^ 
and brilliancy of colouring;, but the contrary effect, 
would be produced if too sudden or too great a de- 
gree of heat was applied, or for too long a time, as- 
it would draw the wax too much to the surface, and-- 
inight likewise crack, the paint. Should the coat .of 
wax put over the painting, .when finished, appearing 
any part uneven,. it may be remedied by drawing a 
moderately, hot iron over it again, as before-men- 
tioned,. or even by scraping the wax mi th. a knife ; 
and shou:ld the v/ax, by too great or too long an ap- 
})lication of heat, form into bubbles at particular 
placeSj by aj")plying a poker heated, or even a to- 
bacco-pipe made hot, the bubbles would subside ;. 
or such defects may be removed by drawing any^ 
thing hard ..aver the. wax,, which w'ould close any? 
small cavities-.. 

When the picture is cold, rub it with a tine lineil 
cloth. Paint.ir\g.s may be executed in this manner 
ypon wood (having first pieces of wood let in be- 
hind, across the grain of the wood, to prevent its 
warping), canvas^ card, or plaster of Paris. The 
plaster of Paris would require no other preparation, 
than mixing .some fine phistep of Paris, in powder,, 
with cold water, the thickness of a cream ; then put^ 
it on a .looking-glass, having first made a frame of 
bees'-wax on thejooking-glass, the form and thick-,^ 
ness you would wish the plaster of Paris to be of,: . 
and when dry take it off, and there will be. a veryi 
smooth surface to paint upon. . Wood and canvas^, 



MA.'VAOEMENT OF COLOURS. 32 1 

are best covered with some grey tint, mixed with 
the same composition of gum-arabic, gum-mastic, 
rind wax, and of the same sort of colours as before- 
mentJoned, before the design is begun, in order to 
cover the grain of the wood or the threads of the 
canvas. Paintings may also be done in the same 
manner, with only gum-water and gum-mastic, pre- 
pared the same way as the mastic and wax ; but in- 
stead of putting seven ounces of mastic, and, when 
boiling, adding five ounces of wax, mix twelve oun- 
ces of gum-mastic with the gum-water, prepared as 
mentioned in the first part of this receipt; before 
it is put on the fire, and when suOicicntly boiled and 
beaten, and is a little cold, stir in, by degrees, twelve 
ounces, or three quarters of a pint (wine measure) 
of cold spring water, and afterwards strain it. It 
\vould be equally practicable painting with wax 
alone, dissolved in gum.- water in the following man- 
ner : Take twelve ounces, or three quarters of a 
pint (wine measure) of cold spring water, and four 
ounces and a half of gum-arabic, put them into a 
glazed earthen vessel, and when the gum is dissolv- 
ed, add eight ounces of white wax. Put the earthen 
vessel, with the gum-water and wax, upon a slow 
fire, and stir them till the wax is dissolved, and has 
boiled a few minutes; then take them off the fire, 
and throw them into a bason, as by remaining in the 
hot earthen vessel the wax would become rather 
hard; beat the gum-water and wax till (juitc cold. 
As there is but a small proportion of water in com- 
parison to the quantity of gum and wax, it would be 
necessary, in mixing this composition with the co- 
lours, to put also some fair water. Should the com- 
position be so made as to occasion the ingredients 
lo separate in the bottle, it will become eqtially ser* 
viceable, if shaken before used, to mix vilh the co* 
lours. 



L 



322 l^ilNT PAINTINGS. 

&32. ^ To clean Oil Paintings, 

If smoked, or very dirty, take stale urine, in which 
a iiltle common salt is dissolved ; rub them orer 
with a woollen cloth dipped in that, till- you think' 
them quite clean, then with a sponge wash them 
over with fair water; then dry them, and rub them 
over with a clean cloth. 

6.33. To take, off y Instantly^ a Copy^fromM Print or 

Piciiire* ■ " 

Make a water of soap and alum, with which wet 
a cloth or paper; lay it either or>a print or picture, 
and pass it once under the rolling press; then go* 
ing round the other side to take it up, you will have 
a very fine copy of whatever you shall have laid it= 
upon. 

634. Tatlmn and whiten Prints or engravings. 

Half fill a glass bottle WMth a mixture composed 
of one part of the red oxyd of lead, or minium, and 
three parts of the mnrintic acid ; and having closed 
the mouth of the bottle with n glass stopper, put it. 
in a cool place not exposed to the light, A certain, 
heat will then be produced, which is an indicatiotv- 
that new combinations are formed. The oxyd of 
the lead abandons a considerable portion of its oxy- 
gen, which remains combined with the liquor; thb 
latter then acquire a beautiful gold colour, and as-- 
fumes the odour of the oxygenated muriatic acid.. 
Jt holds in solution a small portion of the lead, which, 
does-notj in the least, injure its effect. It u neces- 
sary that the bottle should be of strong glass, and! 
the stopper be w^ll secured, in order to prevent the.i 
elastic vapour which rises from foccing. it outd 
When you employ the liquor thus, prepared, take a 
large pane of glass, and raise a kind of border of 
white wax around its edge, about two inches in^ 
height, and every way equal. By these means yon. 



A 



MANAGEiMENT OF COLOURS. 323 

form a sort of trough, into which put the prints, and 
pour over them a little fresh urine, or water nlixed 
with a portion of ox gall. At the end of three or 
four days, pour off which of these liquids you have 
employed, and supply its place with warm water, 
which ought to be changed every three or four 
hours, until it comes off perfectly clear. When 
the matter, with which the prints are dirvied, is of a 
resinous colour, which sometimes happens, dip them 
in a little alcohol : afterwards suffer all the moisture 
to drain off, and cover the prints with the-liquor of 
the oxygenated muriatic acid made by minium. 
Place on the edges of the wax another pane of glass, 
of the same size as that below, in order that you 
may not be too much incommoded by the smell of 
the acid ; and you will plainly see the yellowest 
prints resume their original whiteness. One or two 
hours will be suifRcient to produce the desired effect. 
Having then poured off the acid, wash the j>rints 
several tim^s in pure water, and dry them in the 
sun. 

635. To make Mezzotintos, 

Mezzotintos are made in the follawing manner : 
Take a well-polished copper-plate, and, beginning 
at the corner, rake or furrow the surface all over 
with a knife or instrument made for the purpose, 
first one way and then the other, till the whole is of 
a regular roughness, without the least smooth part 
to be seen 5 in which state, if a paper was to be 
worked from it at the copper- plate press, it would 
be all over black. When this is done, the plate is 
rubbed over with charcoal, or black lead, and then 
the design is drawn with white chalky after which, 
the outlines are traced out, and the plate finished, 
by scraping off the roughness, so as to leave the 
figure on the plate. The outlines and deepest shades 
are not scraped at all, the next shades are scraped 



324 PAINT PAINTINGS. 

but little, the next more, and so on, till the shades 
gradually falling off, leave the paper white, in which 
places the plate is neatly burnished. 

€36. Tg judge of Transparent Colours for PaAnting, 

Transparent colours should be so clear, when 
mixed with abundance of water, as to communicate 
a strong tint without in the smallest degree plaster- 
ing or concealing the paper, &;c. : hence their de- 
signation. The best of every kind are made from 
either vegetable or animal substances, minerals be- 
inp- extremely difficult to prepare, equally so to 
work with water, and many of them very subject to 
change. 

337. To prepare Ivory Leaves for Miniature Paint- 
ers* 

Take the ivory leaves, or tables on which the 
painting is to be made, and. having cleansed it, rub 
it over with the juice of garlic. This takes off that 
greasiness which is so much complained of, as pre- 
venting the colours from taking on the ground 5 
and which is not otherwise to be remedied by the 
use of soap, or even gall. It is, however, effectu» 
ally removed by the above simple preparation. - 

638. How to stencil, or multipli/ Patterns, for zoork- 

ing Muslins, <^c. 

When a print or drawing is to be copied in this 
way, it must be placed upon a sheet of white paper, 
and the outline pricked through both with a pin or 
needle 5 the piefced sheet may then be laid on a 
second clean one, and a muslin bag of powdered 
charcoal shook or rubbed over it, when, upon re- 
moving the former, the kilter will be found a per- 
fect copv. 

639. To stain Paper or Parchment yelloia, 

■ Paper may be stained of a beautiful yellow by 



PERFUMES — COSMETICS. 325 

the tincture of turmeric, formed by infusing an 
ounce or more of the root, powdered, in a pint of 
spirit of wine. This, by afterwards adding water 
to it, may be made to give any tint of yellow, from 
the lightest straw to the full colour called French 
yellow, and will be equal in brightness even to the 
best dyed silks. If yellow is wanted of a warmer 
or redder cast, annatto, or dragon's blood, must be 
added to the tincture. 

640. To stain Paper or Parchment crimson* 

A very fine crimson stain may be given to paper, 
by a tincture of the Indian lake, v/hich may be 
made by infusing the lake some days in spirits of 
wine, and then pouring off the tinctm-e from the 
dregs. 

641. To stain Paper or Parchment green* 
Paper or parchment may be stained green by the 

solution of verdigris in vinegar, or by the crystals 
of verdigris dissolved in water 5 also by the solution 
of copper in aquafortis, made by adding filings of 
copper, gradually, to the aquafortis till no ebulli- 
tion ensues ; or the spirit of salt may be substituted 
for the acmafortisb 



CHAPTER XXIX. 
PERFUMES— COSMETICS. 



642. To make an excellent Smelling Bottle, 

Take an equal quantity of sal-ammoniac and un- 
slacked lime, pound tiiem separate, thcii mix and 
put them ia a bottle to smell to. Before you put in 

c c 



:§^ -PERFUMES— COSMETICS* 

the above, drop two or three drops of the essence o^ 
burgamot into the bottle, then cork it close. A 
drop or two of ether, added to the same, will great- 
ly improve it. 

643. To make Jessamine Butter, or Pomatum, 

Hog's lard melted, and well washed in fair wa- 
ter, laid an inch thick in a dish, and strewed over 
with jessamine flowers, will imbibe the scent, and 
make a very fragrant pomatum. 

644. To make Milk of Roses, 

To one pint of rose water, add one ounce of oil 
of almonds, and ten drops of the oil of tartar. 
N. B. Let the oil of tartar be poured in last. 

645. Wash for the Skin 

Four ounces of pot-ash, four ounces of rose-wa- 
ter, two ounces of pure brandy, and two ounces of 
lemon juice ; put all these into two quarts of wa- 
ter, and when you wash, put a table-spoonful or 
two of the mixture into the bason of water you in» 
tend washing in. 

646. Method of extracting Essences from Flowers, 
Procure a quantity of the petals of any flowers 

which have an agreeable fragrance ; card thin lay- 
ers of cotton, which dip into the finest Florence or 
Lucca oil ; sprinkle a small quantity of fine salt on 
the flowers, and lay them, a layer of cotton, and a 
layer of flowers, until an earthen vessel or a wide- 
Diouthed glass bottle is full. Tie the top close with 
a bladder, then lay the vessel in a south aspect to 
the heat of the sun, and in fifteen days, when un^ 
covered, a fragrant oil may be squeezed away froni 
the whole mass, little inferior (if that flower is 
inade use of) to the dear and highly valued Otto or 
Ddour of Roses. 



PERFUMES COSMETICS. 327' 

€47. To make the Quintessence of Lavender^ or other 
Aromatic Herb, 

• Take oft' the blossoms from the stalks, which 
must be cut fresh at suii-rising in warm weather \ 
spread the blossoms on a white linen cloth, and lay 
them in the shade for twenty-four hours ; aflcL^ 
Tvhich, stamp or bruise them ; then put them, im« 
mersed in warm water, into the still, near a fire, and 
let them infuse for the space of fiv(i or six hours, so 
closely covered that nothing may exhale IVom it ; 
after which time, take off the covering, and quick- 
ly put on the helm, and lute it carefullyo You 
must, in the beginning, draw over half the quantity 
of the water you put in. If you take away the re- 
ceiver, you will see the quintessence on the surface 
of the water, which you may easily separate fronri 
it. Then put the distilled water back again, and 
distil it over again, till there appear no more of the 
quintesser^ce on the water. You may distil this wa~ 
ter four or five times over, according as you per- 
ceive the quintessence upon it. 

The best distilling utensils for this work are those 
for the balneum marice^ or sand bath ; meanwhile 
vou may, after the common method, distil the in- 
gredients on an open fire. Bat if you intend to 
make quintessence for waters, you may make use 
of common salt, in order to extract the more quint- 
essence of any blossom. 

Take four pounds of blossoms of any aromatic 
plant and infuse in it six quarts of water. If you 
use salt to bring your infusion to a ferment, add 
half a pound of common salt to it. 

648. To obtain Aromatic Oits from the Pellicle^ 
which envelopes the Seeds of the Laurus Sassafras, 
and Laurus Benzoin* 
The method of obtaining these oils is, to boil the 

pellicle which surrounds the seeds of the sassafras 



v'ilF- 



328 PERFUIMES— COSMETICS, 

and benjamin-tree, in water ; when they float upon 
its surface, from which they may be skimmed with 
a spoon. 

That of the sassafras differs materially from the 
oil obtained from the bark of the root of this tree* 
Its aroma is different, it is much lighter, and it con- 
geals in a higher degree of heat. 

The oil of the benzoin-tree is a delightful aro- 
matic, is very inflammable, and might be used as a 
spice in food, and in all those diseases in which the 
aromatic oils are useful. It has been tried with 
success, as an external application, in a case of 
,5evere chronic rheumatism. One half pound of the 
pellicle of the seeds will yield several ounce mea- 
sures of oik 

649. To prese7've Aromatic and other Herbs*.. 

The boxes and drawers in which vegetable mat- 
ters are kept, should not impart to them any smell 
or taste ; and more certainly to avoid this, they 
should be lined with paper. Such as are volatile, 
-^a delicate texture, or subject to suffer from in- 
sects, must be kept in well-covered glasses. Fruits 
and oily seeds, which are apt to become rancid^ 
must be kept in a cool and dry, but by no means. 
in a warm and moist place. 

650. Lavender Water, 

Put two pounds of lavender pips into two quarts 
of water, put them into a cold still, and make a 
slow Are under it ; distil it off very slowly, and put 
it into a pot till you have distilled ail your water; 
then clean your still well out, put your lavender 
water into it, and distil it off slowly again ; put it 
into bottles, and cork it well. 

651. Another. 

Take a pint of the best rectified spirits of wine, 
a shilling's-worth of oil of lavender, sixpenny wgrth 



PERFUMES — COSxMETICS. 32i) 

of essence of ambergris ; mix these altogether, and 
keep it close from the air, then draw it off for use. 
Let it stand till it is fine before you draw it off. 

652. To make Rose Water, 

Gather roses on a dry day, when they are full 
blown ; pick off the leaves, and to a peck put a 
quart of water, then put them into a cold still, make 
a slow fire under it, the slower you distil it the bet- 
ter it will be ; then bottle it, and in two or three 
days you may cork it. 

653. To make Eaii de Luce, and its Use* 

Take of spirit of wine one ounce, spirit of sal- 
ammoniacum four ounces, oil of amber one scruple, 
white Castile soap ten grains. Digest the soap and 
oil in the spirits of wine, add the ammoniacum, and' 
shake them well together. 

S54. To make Hungary Water, 

Take a quantity of the flowers of rosemary, put 
them into a glass retort, and pour in a.i much sjiirit 
of wine as the flowers can imbibe; dilute the retort 
well, and let the flowers macerate for six days, 
then distil it in a sand heat. 

G55. To make Otto {or Odour) of Roses, 

Pickth-e leaves of roses from all seeds and stalks, 
put them in a clean earthen vessel, glazed within, 
or a clean wooden vessel. Pour spring water on • 
them, so as to cover them ; set the vessel in the sun 
in tke morning at rising, and leave it in the sun- 
shine till sun-set; then take them into the house; 
repeat this for six or seven days, and in three or 
four days there will be a fine yellow oily matter on 
the surface of the water; and, in two or three days 
»iore, there will appear a scum upon the surface, 
which is the otto of roses. This may be taken up^ 

c C 2. 



330 PERFUMES COSMETICS. 

with cotton, and squeezed into a phial with the fing- 
er and thumb. 

Remark, — It is suspected that there is some mis- 
take in this receipt, and it has passed to the public 
through very many hands. It was published in the 
Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, 
on the authority of Dr. D. Monro, of London, who 
received it from Major Mackenzie, who asain sot 

' r '>> *■• OCT* 

it from an ofticer of his corps, whose name is not 
mentioned. 

The account given by Polier in the Transactions 
of the Bengal Society is very difterent. It is need- 
less to detail it, for it is exactly the process of an 
European distiller : cohobation on fresh leaves, and 
exposure to slight cold, to congeal the essential oil, 
which is skimmed off or taken up by cotton, and 
squeezcd^nto phials. 

It is conjectured, that in the manufacture or pro- 
duction of otto which is thought to be profitable in 
the East, and the reverse in Europe, the difference 
cannot be in the price of labour, or similar circum- 
stances, which European skill Avould more than 
compensate ; but in the fact, that there is a market 
for rose-water in the East, from the quantity used 
in wasiiing hands, sprinkling rooms and garments, 
and similar purposes, to which the demand of the 
European apothecary, and confectioner is compara- 
tively insignificant. It is but a thin film of congeal- 
ed essential oil which a great quantity of rose-water 
will afibrd ; and alter it is taken off, the water is 
still very good. In India it may be sold ; in Eu- 
rope it is uaste ; for to employ it in fresh distilla- 
tions is clearly to waste a manufactured article. 

556. To make Lip Salve, 

Take an ounce of white wax and ox marrow, 
three ounces of white pomatum, and melt all in a 
bath heat ; add a drachm of alkanet, and stir it till 
it acquire a reddish colour. 



PERFUMES COSMETICS. 331 

657. To make the celebrated Pomade Divine, 

According to Dr. Beddoes, this composition is as 
follows, VIZ. beef marrow, twelve ounces steeped m 
water ten days, and afterwards m rose water twen- 
ty-four hours ; flowers of benjamin, pounded storax, 
and Florentine orris, of each half an ounce; cinna- 
mon, a quarter of an ounce clove and nutmeg a 
quarter of an ounce. The whole to be put in 
an earthen vessel, closely covered down, to keep in 
the fumes, and being suspended in water made to 
boil three hours ; after which, the whole is to be 
strained and put into bottles. 

^58. To make Soft Pomatum. 

Take what quantity of hog's lard you choose to 
make ; cut it down in small pieces, and cover it with 
clear spring water, changing it every twenty-four 
hours for eight days ; when it is quite white, put it 
into a pan, and melt it over a clear fjre ; when it is 
all melted, strain it, and put to it some essence of 
lemon to perfume it : so keep it for use. 

^59^ To make Hard Pomatum, 

For hard Pomatum, blanch the hog's lard in the 
same manner, as also some mutton suet, and boil 
them together with a little v;hite wax ; scent it with 
essence of lemon or lavender, then make round 
paper cases, and when cold turn down the other 
end, and keep it for use. 

660. Genuine Windsor Soap, 

To make this famous soap for washing the hands, 
shaving, kc, nothing more is necessary than to slice 
the best white soap as thin as possible, melt it in a 
stew-pan over a slow fire, scent it well with oil of 
caraway, and then pour it into' a frame or mould 
made for that purpose, or a small drawer, adapted 
in size and form to the quantity. When it has stood 
three or four days in a dry situation, cut it into square 






332 PERFUMES — COSMETICS. 

pieces-, and it is ready for use. By this simple mode,' 
substituting any more favourite scent for that of car- 
away, all persons may^ suit themselves with a good 
perfumed soap at the most trifling expense. Shaving 
boxes may be at once filled with the melted soap, 
instead of a mould.. 

661. To prepare Aromatic Vinegar, 

Take of common vinegar any quantity ; mix a 
sufficient quantity of powdered chalk, or common 
whitening, with it, to destroy the acidity. Then let 
the white matter subside, and pour off the insipid, 
supernatant liquor; afterwards let the white pow- 
der be dried, either in the open air, or by a fire^- 
When it is dry, pour upon it sulphuric acid (oil of 
vitriol), as long as white acid fumes continue to as-^ 
send. Stone vessels are the properest to be used on 
this occasion, as the acid will not act upon thera«. 
This product is the acetic acid, known in the shops 
hy the name of aromatic vinegar. The simplicity 
and ch&apness of this process points it. out as a ve- 
ry useful and commodious one for purifying prisons, 
hospital-ships, and houses, where contagion is pre- 
sumed or suspected, the white acid fumes diffusing 
themselves quickly around. . 

If any one is-desirous of obtaining the acid in a 
liquid state, the apparatus of Nooth presents a con- 
T-enience for the purpose. It must of course be col- 
lected in water. But the muriatic acid is cheaper^ . 
and much more expansible. . 

662. Essence of Soap for Shaving or washing 

Hands, 

Take a pound and a half of fine white soap \n thin 
slices, and add thereto two ounces of salt of tartar-, 

, mix them v/ell together, and put this mixture into. 

JJbne quart of spirits of wine, in a bottle which will- 
hold. double the quantity; of the ingredients ; tie a* 



PERFUMES — COSMETICS. 333 

bladder over the raouth of the bottle, and prick a 
pin through the bladder ; set it to digest in a gentle 
fieat, and shake the contents from lime to time, tak- 
ing care to lake out the pin at such times to allow 
passage for the air from within ; when the soap is 
dissolved, filter the liquor through paper, to free it 
fi"om impurities ; then scent it with a little burga- 
mot or essence of lemon. It will have the appearance 
of fine oil, and a small quantity will lather with wa- 
ter like soap, and is much superior in use for wash- 
ing or shaving. 

663. To increase the Growth of Hair, 

Hartshorn beat small, and mixed with oil, being 
rubbed on the head of persons who have lost their 
hair, will cause it to grow again as at first. 

664. 5Tb know whether Hair Powder is adulterated 

with Lime», 

Put a little crude sal-ammoniac, in pov/der, to the 
suspected hair powder, and add a little warm water 
to the mixture, and stir it about; if the po^vder has 
been adulterated v.'ith lime, a strong smell of vola- 
tile alkali will arise from this mixture. 

665. To perfume Hair Powder, 

Take one drachm of musk, four ounces of laven- 
der blossoms, one and a half drachm of civet, and 
half a drachm of ambergris ; pound the whole toge- 
ther, aud pass it through a sieve. Preserve this mix- 
ture in well-stopped bottles, and add more or less 
thereof, as agreeable, in your hair powder. 

^QtQ. Preparation of the Greek Water, [or the Solu- 
tion of Silver, for the converting red or light co^ 
loured Hair into a deep Brown, 

l^ake silver filings, and dissolve them in spirit of\ 
nitre. The spirit of nitre and the silver, being put 
in a matrass, must be placed, first in a gentle sand'v 

m 






3i'4 PERFUMES— COSMETlcr." 

heat, and afterwards-removed where the fluid may 
be made to boil for a short time. Being taken out' 
of the sand-heat, while yet hot, add as much water 
as may have evaporated during the boiling; and, 
when the solution is grown cold, decant oft' the clear 
fluid from the sediment,., if there be any, and the un- 
dissolved part of the silver filings ; which may be' 
dissolved afterwards, by adding more spirit of ni- 
tre, and repeating the same treatment. . 

(Lunar caustic dissolved in water is precisely the 
same. It is sold by the chemists for about half-a- 
crown an ounce ; the salt is more pure and cheaper 
than it can be made in small quantities.) 

Note, — The solution of silver, thus obtained, with 
common water, is the Greek water, used for turning 
red or light-coloured hair to brown. }ts efficacy 
may be gready improved' by washing the hair be- 
fore the application of the water, with common wa- 
ter, in which some soda has been dissolved. The 
proportion may be an ounce and a half of pure soda 
to a pint of the water; but it requires a frequent 
repetition to change the colour of the hair; and care 
must be taken that a sufficient quantity of water be 
added to dilute the solution, to prevent its destroy- 
ing the hair, or, perhaps, excoriating the skin by 
its*^ causticity. At least double the quantity cf water 
should be therefore added* 

The hair must first be cleaned frank pov/der and 
pomatum,.witha small-tooth comb, and then washed 
with the soda and water till all grease, pomatum, &:c, 
be got out; then use the Geek water in. the follow- 
ing manner, first shaking the botde : Take as much 
hair as can conveniently be wetted, and with a bit 
of sponge, tied on a little stick dipped in the Greek 
water, wet the hair well, and so proceed till all is 
wetted ; let it dry by sun, air, or fire, before you re« 
peat it, which must be done four times, and after- 
wards be washed with-tJiesodaandvvatcrj all which 



PERFlf^rES — COSilETIC?. 335 

•siiay. easily be done in eight hours. A cloth should 
be put on the shoulders, and do not let the Greek 
water touch the skin, or as little as possible. To 
make yourself expert, first try, according to the a- 
bove directions, to dye a lock of hair that is not 
growing on the head ; and make the Greek water 
stronger or weaker, according as you find it neces- 
sary. 

667. A more convenient Dye for the Hair, 

The defect of the preceding composition is, that 
it stains the^^m as well as the hair ; — this inconve- 
nience does not attend the following preparation : 

Into a glass phial or a porcelain of clean-glazed 
earthen-ware vessel, filled with strong clear lime- 
water, put a little litharge in fine powder. The lime- 
water will dissolve a portion of the litharge in the 
cold, and a greater quantity by the application of a 
l)oiling heat. When the solution is complete, pour 
it into a bottle, and keep it stopped. More lime-wa- 
.ter may be put to the remaining litharge. By eva- 
poration in a retort, the solution is concentrated, 
and yields very small transparent crystals, about as 
soluble in water as lime. 

It blackens the hair and the nails; but as it does 
not affect the colour of the skin, nor of animal oils, 
it may be applied every time that the face is wash- 
ed, or the hair combedr It is decomposed by the 
rSulphate of alkalies and sulphurated hydrogen gas* 



;36 RATS* 



CHAPTER XXX. 
EATS. 



<56i8. To destroy Rats and other Vermin, 

Sponge, if cut in small pieces, fried or dipped in 
honey, and given to vermin, distends their intestines^ 
and effectually destroys them. The addition of a 
little oil of rhodium will tempt them to eat. 

A better method would be to feed them regularly 
two or three weeks in any apartment which they 
infest. The hole, by which they enter, being first 
fitted with a sliding door, to which a long string may 
be added; any apartment might be thus turned into 
a gigantic rat-trap. 

669. Another Method of destroying Rats , 

X.ay bird-lime in their haunts, for though they are 
nasty enough in other respect?, *yet being very cu- 
rious of their fur, if it is but daubed with this stuff, 
it is so troublesome to them that they will even 
scratch their skins from off their own back to get it 
off, and will never abide in the place where they 
have suffered in this manner. 

670. To destroy Rats or Mice, 

Mix flour of malt, with some butter; add thereto 
a drop or two of oil of aniseeds ; make it up into 
balls, and bait your traps therewith. If you have 
thousands^ by this means you may take them all. 

671 . A Mouse Trap, by zohlch forty or ffty Mice may 

be caught iiia Kight, 

Take a plain four-square trencher, and put into 
the two contrary ends of- it a lorge pin, or piece of 
thick knitting needle; then take two sticks about a 



HATS. ^37 

yard long, and lay them on your dresser, with a 
notch cut at each end of your sticks, placing the 
two pins, stuck on tire corner of the trencher, on the 
notches of the two sticks, so that one corner of year 
treacher may He about an inch upon your dresser or 
place that the mice come to •, then let the corner that 
lies opposite to this be baited with some batter and 
oatmeal, plastered fast on, and when the mice run 
off the dresser to the butter, it will tip them into a 
vessel full of water, which you must place under 
the trencher, in which they will be drowned. 

That your trenciier may jiot tip over, with a little 
sealing-wax and a thread, seal the string to the dres- 
ser and trencher, and it Will remain in good order 
for weeks or months. 

€72. New, simple, and Effectual Method of destroy- 

ing Rats, 

A fifew years ago, the corh-mill at GloSiop wars 
very much infested with rats, A quantity of barley, 
which lay on the chamber floor, was hourly visited 
by some of them. The miller one day going to drive 
them away, as usual, happened to ca^ch one of them 
under his hat, which he killed ; he then singed all 
the hair otf its body, &;c, urttil its skin, tail, audi 
legs bectmie stiff by the operatioii. In this condi- 
tion he set it upon its feet hy the side of a heap of 
barley, where it stood, with pricked-up ears and 
tail, for some time: after this, no rat dared to come 
uear it; and in a short space of time the mill was 
cleared of those depredators, and has continued so 
ever since. 

673. Dr, Taylor'^s cheap and efficalous Method of 
destroying Rats, 

[Communicated to the Manchester Agricultural So- 
ciety.] 

la or near the place frequented by these vermin, 



S38 RATS. 

place on a slate or tile one or two table-spoonfuls pi 
dry oatmeal. Lay it thin, and press it flat, more ea- 
sily to ascertain what is taken away. As the rats, if 
not interrupted, will come regularly there to feed, 
continue to supply them with fresh oatmeal for two 
or three days ; and then, well mixing, in about six 
table-spoonfuls of dry oatmeal, three drops only of 
oil of aniseeds, feed them with this for two or thi-ee 
days more. Afterward, for erne day, give ihem only- 
half the quantity of this scented oatmeal which they 
have before eaten ; and next day, place the follow- 
ing mixture : To four ounces of dry oatmeal, scent- 
ed with six drops of oil of aniseeds, and half an 
ounce of carbonated barytes, previously pounded 
very fine in a mortar, and sifted through a little fine 
muslin or cambric. Mix these intimately with the 
scented oatmeal ; and, laying it on the tile or slate, 
allow the rats to eat it, without the smallest inter- 
ruption, for twenty-four hours. A few hours after 
eating any of it, they will .frequently be seen run- 
ning about, as if drunk, or paralytic j but they gene- 
rally, at last, retire to their haunts, and die. As rats 
are' extremely sagacious, it may be proper, when 
llhey have,, during the twenty-four hours, eaten only 
a small portion, to leave the remainder of the mix- 
ture twenty-four hours Ibnger ; after which it will be 
•bestztoburn what is left, a fresh mixture being pre- 
pared at so trifling . an expense when wanted. The 
doors of the place w'here this mixture is exposed to 
the tats should be kept closed ; as well to prevent 
their. being disturbed, as to obviate the possibility 
of accidents to children or domestic animals; for, 
though it be not so extremely dangerous as the pre- 
parations commonly employed for killing rats, and 
is even used in medicine, it proves fatal, if impro» 
perly taken, unless timely counteracted by emetics. 
The oil of aniseeds, though it renders the mixture 
disagreeable to dogs, and many other aniipals, is al- 



RATS. 33St 

iunng, when used in small quantities, to rats. The 
carbonated barytes, Dr. Taylor adds, maybe pro- 
cured in large quantities at the lead mines belong- 
ing to Sir Frank Standish, Bart, at Anglezark, near 
Chorley, in Lancashire : the proper sort is tasteless, 
semi-transparent, and effervesces with acids ; it is 
moderately hard, and striated. It is called aerated 
barytes — terra ponderosa acrata — and, sometimes, 
by the miners, ponderous spar. It may be purchas- 
ed at a cheap rate from Messrs. Brown and Mawe, 
in Tavistock-street, or other collectors of mineralsc 

674. To prevent the Burrowing of Rats in Houses* 

Rats may be effectually prevented from burrow- 
ing under the foundation of houses, by making an* 
oftset of stone or brick, about two feet in breadth, 
and eighteen inches below the surface y and by car- 
rying up a perpendicular wall from the edge of this 
olfset, to within a few inches of the ground. Thie a*- 
doption of the same plan, inside will prevent the 
burrowing of these animals in cellars : for rats al- 
ways burrow close to a wall; atid finding their per- 
pendicular course impeded, they taktJ a horizontal 
direction, as far as the offset continues, when they* 
are again stopped by the outside wall* Thus baffled, 
they ascend, and go off. 

Those persons who have suffered in their grana- 
ries, ice-houses, and in the cellars of their dwelling- 
houses, by the depredations of rats, will probabljjr 
deem this one of the most valuable articles of the 
present work. 



340 SPOTS OR STAINSa 

CHAPTER XXXL 

SP07B OR smms. 



075. To make portable Balls, for rcmomn^ Spot^ 
from Clothes in gen,eraL * • ' • 

Tafee fulIersVearth, perfectly, dried, so that it 
crumbles into a powder; moisten it with the clear 
juiee of lemons, and add a small quantity of pure' 
pearl ashes ; then work and knead the whole care- 
fully together, till it acquires the consistence of a 
thick elastic paste ; form it into convenient small, 
balls, and expose them to the heat of the sun, in^> 
which they, ought to be completely dried* In this, 
state they are fit for use in the manner following : — = 
First, moisten the spot on your clothes with water, 
then rub it with the ball just described, and suffer 
it again to dry in the sun : after having washed tiie 
spot with pure water, till it will entirely disappear* 

676. The Fumes of Brimstone useful in removing 

Spots or Stains in Linen, i^c* 

If a red rose be held in the fumes of a brimstone- 
match, the colour will soon begin to change, and, 
at length, the ffower will become white. By the 
same process, fruit-stains or iron moulds may be re- 
moved fi'6m linen or cotton cloths, if the spots be 
previously moistened with water. With iron moulds, 
w^eak muriatic acid is preferable, assisted by heat 5 
as by laying the cloth on a tea-pot or kettle, filled 
with boiling water. 

677. To remove Spots of Grease from Paper, 
Take an equal quantity of roach-alum, burnt, and 

flower of brimstone, lonely powdered together j wet 






^r-^TS OR STAINS. 34f-» 

thepap^ra little, and put a small cju^ntity' of the 
powder on the place, rubbing it gently With your 
finger, and the spot will disappear. 

678. Substitute' fo^r Salt of Sorrd,/cn* removing Ink 

Spots and iron Moulds, 

Take six parts of crystals of tartar, in powder, 
three parts of alum, likewise pulverized, and use 
them in the same manner as salt of sorrel, 

679. Expeditious Method of taking out Stains from 

Scarlet, or Velvet of any other Colour, 

Take soap wort, bruise it^ strain out its juices,- 
and add to it a small quantity of black soap. Wash 
the stain with this liquor, suffering it to dry between 
whiles, and by this method the spots will in a day. 
or two entirely disappear. 

G80. To take Spots effectually out of Silk, Linerij or 

Woollen, 

Spirits of turpentine, twelve drops, and the same 
quantity of spirits of wine ; grind these with an 
ounce of pipe-maker's clay, and rub the spots 
therewith.. You are to wet the composition when 
you do either silk, linen, or woollen with it ; let it= 
remain till dry, then rub it off, and the spot or spots' 
will disappear. 

True spirits of salts diluted with water, will re- 
move iron-moulds from linen; and sal-ammoniac, 
with lime, will take out the stains' of w'ine. 

681. To take the Stains of Grease from Woollen or 

Silkk 

Threc^ ounces of spirits of wine, three ounces o£ 
French chalk, powdered, and five ounces of pipe- 
clay. Mix the above ingredients, and make theril in' 
rblls about the length of a finger, and you Will find 
a never-failing remedy f6r removing gr6ase froto' 
woollen' Of silken goods. 

D D 2 



342 SPOTS OR STAINS. 

N. B. It is to be applied by rubbing on the spot 
either dry or wet, and afterwards brushing the 
place. 

€82. Easy and safe Method of discharging Grease- 
Spots from Woollen Cloths, 

Fuller's-earth, or tobacco-pipe clay, being put 
wet on an oil spot absorbs the oil as the water eva- 
porates, and leaves the vegetable or animal fibres of 
cloth clean, on being beaten or brushed out. When, 
the spot is occasioned by tallow or wax,^ it is neces- 
sary to heat the part cautiously by an iron or the 
fire, while the cloth is drying. In some kinds of 
goods, blotting paper, bran, or raw starch, may be 
used with advantage. 

683. To take out Spots of Ink, 

As soon as the accident happens, wet the place 
with juice of sorrel or lemon, or with vinegar, and 
the best hard white soap., 

684. To take Iron-moulds out of Linen, 

Hold the iron-mould on the cover of a tankard of, 
boiling water, and rub on the spot a litde juice of 
sorrel and a little salt, and when thexloth has tho= 
roughly imbibed the juice, wash it in Iee» 

685. To takeout Spots on Silk, 

Rub the spots with spirit of turpentine ; this spi= 
rit exhaling, carries off with it the oil that causes 
the spot. 

€86. To take Wax out of Velvet of all Colours, eX' 
cept Crimson, 

Take a crumby, wheaten loaf, cut it in two, toast 
it before the fire, and, v/hile very hot, apply it to 
the part spotted with wax. Then apply another 
piece of toasted bread hot as before, and continue 
this application till the wax. is entirely taken.Qut« 



.^POTS OR STAINS. 343^ 

687. Process for preparing nitrous Acid for extract- 

ing Stains, ^cfrom tanned Leather, 

Take half a pint of water, a quarter of a pint of 
nitrous acid, and half an ounce of salts of lemon. 
Put the water in abotde, and add the nitrous acid to 
it, and afterwards the salts of lemon ; when the heat 
which is caused by this mixture has subsided, add 
half a pint of skimmed milk; shake them occasion- 
ally for three or four days, and the liquor will be 
fit for use. 

The application, — With a brush and soft water ^ 
clean the surface of the leather from all grease, 
dirt, &c. Next scrape on it a little Bath brick, or- 
white free sand ;- add a little of the above liquor, 
and with abrush scour it well, repeating this pro- 
cess till the whole has been gone over ; then, with 
a clean sponge and water, wash off what remains 
of the brick : leave the leather to dry gradually, 
and it will be of a light new colour-. If it is wished 
to be darker^ brush it with a hard brush a little be- 
fore- it is dry, and it will be of a rich bi*own tinge. . 

688. To extract Grease Spots from Paper, 

Scrape finely, some pipe-clay, the quantity of 
which may^ be easily determined on making the 
experiment: lay thereon the sheet or leaf, and cov- 
er the spot in like manner v^itb the clay •, .cover 
the whole with a sheet of paper ; then apply, for a 
few seconds, a healed ironing box, or any substi-- 
tute adopted by laundresses. On using Indian rub-- 
ber to remove the dust taken up by the grease, the 
paper will be found restored to its original degree 
of whiteness and opacity. 

689. To remove Spots of Grease from Books and 

Prints, 

After having gently warmed the paper stained 
Tvith grease, wax, oil, or any fat body whatever,. 



344~ SPOTS aR stains; 

take out as much as possible" of it, by means of 
blotting paper. Then dip a small brush in the es- 
sential oil of well rectified spirit of turpentine, heat- 
ed almost to an ebullition (for when cold it acts- 
only very weakly,) and draw it genlly over botb 
sides of the paper^ which must be carefully kept- 
warm. This operation must be repeated as many 
times as the quantity of the fat'body imbibed by the* 
paper, or the thickness of the pa per, .may render 
necessary. When the greasy subtance is entirely" 
removed, recourse may be had- to the following 
method to restore the paper to its former whiteness,) 
^hich is not fK>mpletely restored by the first pro- 
cess. Dip another brush in highly- rectified spirit" 
of wine, and draw it, in like manner, over the place 
which was stained, and particularly round the 
edges, to remove the border, that would still pre- 
sent a stain. Bv emnloyino: these mea-ns, witfe-> 
proper caution, toe spot wiJl totally disappear; the 
paper will resume its original whiteness; and if the 
process has been employed on a part written OTi!< 
with common ink, or printed with printer's ink, it 
will experience no alteration. 

690. Tb take Spots out of Cloths, Stiiffs, Silk, Cot- 
tail, and Linen, 

Take two quarts of spring water, pm in it a littlei 
fiiie white pot-ash, about the quantity- of a walnuty 
and a lemon cu^ in slices ; mix these well-together^ 
and let it stand -for twenty- four hours ia the sun; 
then strain it off, and put the clearliquid up for use. 
This water takes out all spots, whether pitch, grease, 
or oil, as well in hats, as cloths - and -stufls, silk or- 
cotton, and linen. As soon as the spot is- taken 
out, wash the place with fair water; foi^cloths of a 
dt^ep colour, add to a. spoonful of the mixture as 
much fair'wateras to weaken it. 

Grease spots ill cloth maybe removed by; usin^ 



■m 



SPOTS Oft STAINS. Z4ii' 

soap and water with a tooth or nail brush, and af- 
tci'wards wiping off the lather with the wet corner 
of a towel. Essence of lemon, or pure spirit of 
Uirpenline, will remove pitch from cloth, dec. 

In woollen cloth, an easier method is to scrape 
off the hard tallow with the edge of a tea-spoon,. 
then rub the part briskly with a clean woollen rag, 
;ihifting the rag as the. part becomes dirty ; or, place 
some blotting paper on the spot, press it with a hot 
iron, occasionally moving the paper. 

691. Remedy against the Effects of Ink, zuhenjust-. 

spilled. 

If the ink be spilled on a rufHe, or apron, izc, 
while you have it on, let one hold the spotted part 
between his two hands over a bason and rub it, 
while another pours water gradually from a decan- 
ter upon it, and let a whole pitchfir-full be used if 
necessary ; or if the rufile, apron, Szc. be at liberty, 
let it be dipped into a bason filled with water, and 
there squeezed and dipped in again, taking care to- 
change the water in abundance every two or three 
squeezes. If the ink be spilled on a green table 
carpet, it may immediately be taken out with a tea- 
spoon so entirely, that scarcely any water at all 
shall be wanted afterwards, provided it was only 
that instant spilled, as the down of the cloth pre- 
vents the immediate soaking in of the ink, or of any 
other liquor (except oil ;) but if it have lain some 
time, be the time ever so long, provided the place 
be still wet, by pouring on it fresh clean water by 
litde and little at a time, and gathering it up again 
each time with a spoon, pressing hard to squeeze it 
out of the cloth into the spoon, you will at last bring 
it to its natural colour, as if no such accident, hadi 
happeneda 



TlMBERo 

CHAPTER XXXIL 
TIMBER. 




692. To promote the Grozoth of Forest Trees. 

It is highly to be censuroc], the neglect of per- 
mitting ivy-twines, which grow to forest trees, to 
remain attached to them. Their roots entering into 
the bark rob the trees of much of their nourishment ; 
they in a manner strangle their supporters, by im- 
peding the circulation of their juices,, and in time 
destroy the trees. They should be torn up by the 
roots, for, if any part of them adhere to the tree, 
they will spread, as they obtain nourishment by 
their adhering roots. 

693. White-washing the Trunks of Trees recom- 

7nended, 

Being one day upon a visit (observes Mr. North- 
more, who recommends this experiment) at my 
friend's, near Yarmouth, in the Isle of Wight, I re- 
marked that several-, of the trunks of trees in his 
orchard had been covered v/ith whitewash ; upon 
enquiring the reason he replied, that he had done 
it with a view to keep off the hares, and other ani- 
mals, and that it was attended not only with that 
good effect, but several others, for it made the rind 
smooth and compact, by closing up the cracks ; it 
entirely destroyed the moss ; and as the rains wash- 
ed off the lime, it manured the roots. These seve- 
ral advantages derived from so simple a practice 
deserve to be more generally known. The white- 
wash is made in the usual manner, with lime, and 
may be applied twice,, or oftener, if necessary. 



TIMBER. 347 

"(594. To cure Wounds in Trees, 

Wounds in trees are best cured by covering 
them with a coat of common lead paint without tur- 
pentine (forturpentine is poison to vegetation) in the 
sun, on a tine dry day, 

695. Mr, Forsyth's Method of Curing Injuries and 
Defects in Fruit and Forest Trees, published by 
Command of his present Majesty, 

Mr. Forsyth directs, in his Treatise on tbo Man- 
agement and Culture of Fruit Trees, &c. that all 
the decayed, hollow, loose, rotten, injured, diseas- 
ed, and dead parts, should be entirely cut away, till 
the knife extend to the sound or solid-wood, so as 
^o leave the surface perfectly smooth. The com- 
position which he has invtinted, and directed to be 
then applied, is thus prepared : To tv/enty-five gal- 
lons of human urine, and a peck of lime, add a suf- 
ficient quantity of .fresh cow-dung to bring it to the 
consistency of paint. This composition should 
then be laid on with a painter's brush, to the thick- 
ness of about an eighth of an inch, and the edges 
finished off as thin as possible. In the mean time, 
a tin box, the top of which is perforated with holes, 
should be filled with a mixture of five parts of dry 
pulverized wood ashes, and one' part bone ashes 
also reduced to powder ; from which it is to be scat- 
tered or dredged over the surface of the composi- 
tion : and, when it has been suffered to absorb half 
an hour, an additional portion of the powder is to 
be gently applied with the hand till the plaster ac- 
quire a smooth and even surface. As the edges of 
the plastered wounds grow up, care must be taken 
to prevent the new wood from coming in contact 
with that which is decayed : and, for this purpose, 
it will be proper to cut out the latter, in proportion 
as the growth of the former advances ; a hollow 
ipacebeing left between the two, that the new wood 



v34B TIMBER. 

may have sufficient space to extend and fill up tte 
.cavity, thus forming, as it were, a new tree. In 
consequence of this process, old and decayed pear= 
trees, in the second summer after its being thus ap- 
plied, are said to have produced fruit of the best 
quality and finest flavour ; and, in the course of four 
or five years, to have even yielded such abundant 
cropsj as young and healthy treies could not have 
borne in twenty years. By the same method, top, 
large ^nd aged elm-trees, all the parts of which 
were broken, having only a very small portion of 
bark left on the trunk, shot forth stems from their 
tops to the height of more than thirty feet, within 
six or seven years after the composition had been 
applied. It appears, therefore, that both forest 
and fruit trees, however aged or decayed, may be 
preserved, and even renovated 5 while the latter, iti 
particular, are rendered more fruitful than at any 
earlier period of their growth. The health and 
vegetation of trees in general, Mr. Forsyth remarks, 
may be greatly promoted, by scraping them, by 
cutting away the cankered parts, and by washing 
their stems annually in February or March : and he 
recommends fresh soap suds, and the composition, 
to be applied to the stems and branches of fruit, for- 
• est, or tiaiber trees of any kind, in the same man- 
ner as the ceilings of rooms are white-washed -5 
which, he asserts, will not otily destroy the eggs of 
insects that would be batched during the spring and- 
'Summer, but also prevent the growth- of moss. Ih 
therefore, he adds, the same operation be repeatecfl 
in autumn, afier the fall of the leaf, it will kill the' 
eggs of those numerous iasects which would other- 
wise be hatched during that season and the ensuing; 
winter. So that this, process, in fact, not only con-. 
»tributes to the nourishment of the tree, but actually 
•preserves its bark in a- fine healtliful state* 



-I 



» 



^6i To preserve Wood in damp Situations, 

Two coats of the following preparation are to be 
applied, after which the wood is subject to no dete- 
rioration whatever from humidity. Twelve pounds 
of resin are to be beaten in a mortar, to which three 
pou-nds of sulphur and twelve pints of whale oil are 
to be added. This mixture is to be melted over 
the fire, and stirred during the operation. Ochre 
reduced to an impalpable powder, by triturating it 
with oil, may then be combined in the proportion 
necessary to give either a lighter or a darker colour 
to the material. The first coat should be put on 
lightly, haviag been previously heated ; the second 
naay be applied in two or three days, and a third 
after an equal interval, if from the peculiar damp- 
.Rcss of the situation it should be judged expedient. 

Remark,-^\i is highly probable (though the ex- 
periment has not been tried) that this compositiori 
would be improved by adding a small portion of the 
iiquidleather, which is now commonly sold in London, 
beinc: the refuse of the pui-ification of fishoil by tar. 

Where the work will bear the expense, and is 
not exposed to a heat of more than 130 degrees of 
Fahrenheit, the best composition is the following : 
Equal parts of turpentine (the fluid resin, not the 
essential oil) bees'-wax, black resin and maltha, or 
coal tar, boiled together till they cease to rise, that 
is, till the white cream or scum proceeding from the 
separation of the essential oil disappears. Apply 
it warm with a turpentine brush— two or three coats 
to cover the cracks or pores left by the brusti. This 
lute was first proposed by Chaptal, without the ad- 
dition of the coal tar, which is a great improvement. 
A piece of wood covered with three coats of it, and 
immersed for two years in water, w^s found to be 
quite dry on cutting off the iute. 

Take care not to allow water tt) f^ill int-o the pan^ 

t £ 



Qsit wQuld make* the hot materials exploded "'If iH^ 
composition catch fire, put on the cover directly, 
and remove the pan for an instant from the fire, 

697, Cause and Prevention of the Dry Rot, 

The cause of the dry rot in wood is moisture ; 
and to prevent well-dried timber from decaying 
above or under ground, is by charring it well. 

698« Cure for the Dry Rot in Timber, so as to make 
it indestructible by Water, 

Melt twelve ounces of rosin in an iron pot ; add 
three gallons of train oil, and three or four rolls of 
brimstone ; and when the brimstone and rosin are 
melted and become thin, add as much Spanish 
brown, or red and yellow ochre, or any other col- 
our required, first ground pne with the same oil, as 
will give the whole a shade of the depth preferred.; 
then lay it on with a brush as hot and thin as possi- 
ble ; some time after the first coat is dried, give it 
a second. This preparation will preserve planks 
for ages, and keep the weather from driving through 
brick work. 

699. Method of trying the Goodness of Timber fo-r 
Ship Building, used in the Arsenal at Vienna. *"' 

'■ One person applies his ear to the centre of one 
end of the trunk, while another, with a key, hits the 
other end with a gentle stroke. If the tree be sound 
and-good,; the stroke will be distinctly heard at the 

. Q|her end, though, the tree should be an hundre ' 

** feet or more in length. 

t'OO. ■ To Season and render Green Timber immedi- 
ately fit for Use. 

'' ' After the timber has been cut down from the 
stock, take. off immediately both the outer bark and 
also the inner rind, clean to the wood ; cut it up to 
the different purposes for which it may be \yanted, 



TIMBEK* 35f^ 

viicthcr scar.tUngs for roofings, joists, pianks, deals, 
ir the like. After preparing them for their proper 
nse, steep them in lime water a few days, or pay 
•hem over with a little of the lime, along with th^ 
water. The hotter it is used after the lime is slack- 
ed, so much the better. Lime water is made by 
slacking the lime shells in water. This will an- 
swer equally well for round trees. The author of 
:his method says, he has beet), for a great number 
of yeaj's [>a?;t, used to take down nnd repair both 
ancient and modern buildings, in which a good 
deal of Scots fir had been used, but he never found 
one inch cither rotten or worm-eaten, where it was 
in the least connected with lime, and kept dry; on 
the contrary, he found it more hard and firm than 
when first used. 

^jf,* Some observations and recipes^ applicable to 
Trees in general, may also be found in Chap. xxVo 
Sect, v. Ms. 603, 509, 5U, 535, 514, 51G, 517. 
pp, 260—263. 



Travellers, (Hints to) sec Chap, xxvi, M-^, 
547, 548. pp. 279, 2^. 



^5^ VA!tNI.SHE5., 

€HAPTER XXXIil. 
VJRMSUES, 



^Sm 



^Tke following original and excellent Ohservaiio'm 
071 Varnishes werefirst published by Tho, Cooper^ 
Esq, of Northumberland, {North America) in tliQ 
American edition of Dr, Willicli's " Dom&stic En? 
cyclopedia J^'^'\ 



701. Observations on Varnishes, 

The liquids in which the substances proper for 
making varnishes are generally dissolved are lin- 
seed, nut oil, sun-flower oil; oil of turpentine, and 
spirit of wine^ Hence the subtances themselves 
are all of the class of rosins. Nut oil is not often 
used, though being of a clearer colour than linseed 
oil, it might sometimes deserve the preference. 
The other essential oils, as rosemary, bergamotte, 
&;c. are too dear, and do not dry. 

The substances commonly employed are such as 
form a transparent-solution with the solvents above 
mentioned, and are not liable to be affected by 
moisture of any kind : since none of the gums, or 
gum-resins, are fit for the purpose. 

The resins usually employed are : copal, amber, 
mastic, sandarac, lac (both stick lac and seed lac) 
pine turpentine from Chios or Venice, common 
white rosin, dragon's blood, gum-elemi, asphakum, 
or Jew's-pitch, and common pitch. To which may 
be added, elastic gum, or ca-out-chouc, though this 
is only used at present for bdloons. 



VARNISHES. 353 

Oil of turpentine deadens the colour of paints t 
the vai'nishes of amber and copal brighten them. 

Linseed oil is procured by grinding linseed in 
mills for that purpose. It is of a brownish colour. 
Before, it can be used it must be made drying. The 
reason that oil will not dry without preparation is 
either that it contains a quantity ofuncombined 
mucilaginous substance, or a quantity of uncom- 
bined acid, or both. I have not seen this any where 
ascertained ; Mr. Watt told me ii was acid. 

The common method of making drying oil, is to 
put about half an ounce of litharge to each quart of 
the oil : boil it not hastily or violently, but with a 
moderate and equal fire for about two hours, scum- 
ming it. If it be boiled too hard it will be burnt, 
and become brown. Let this rest till all sediment 
has perfectly subsided, then separate the clean oil, 
which will grow the clearer and the better for keep- 
ing. When it is made perfectly drying, it will have 
a scum formed at the top. Perhaps white leald 
would be better to. use than litharge. 

Poppy oil, is from the seeds of the common pop» 

Xut oil, IS the oil expressed m the same manner 
from walnut. It is made drying in the same man- 
ner as linseed oil : and being clearer, is preferable 
for colourless varnishes. 

To make boiled linseed oil colourless, take three 
or four gallons of oil : add. to it about two quarts of 
fine clear sand, and three or four gallons of boiling 
water: agitate it for half an hour, separate the oilj 
and repeat the process with fresh water. 

Oil of turpentine is produced by the distillation 
of common turpentine : the residuum is rosin. 

Copal, is a resin produced from certain trees in 
New Spain. The best is the clearest, and such as 
will glaze a hot tobacco-pipe without blistering. 

Amber (Karabe, succinum) is a substance, but . 

E e2 



354 V^RNISHES^ 

'whethei;* vegetable or animal is not quite deteri^^in-i,: 
ed, found upon the sea-shores of Polish Prussia. U 
has been by some thought a resin from trees ; by 
others,; a fossil ; by others, the indurated excrement 
of the whale. 

Mastic, is a resin produced from a small tree call= 
ed the Lentisk, growing in the isle of Chio. The 
bark is cut, and the juice exudes. 

Sandarac, is a resin produced in the same way 
from a species of juniper, growing on the coast of 
Africa* 

Lac,, gum-lac, seed-lac, is produced on certaiii 
trees of the fig kind, in the mountainous parts of the 
East Indies, by the perforation of insects in the 
bark. It has been by some thought a kind of wax 
produced by the insects themselves. 

Turpentine is collected in the Greek isles, by. 
making an incision in the fir-trees : the juice is tur- 
pentine. Venice [Chian] turpentine is brought 
over in large earthen jars. 

Common rosin, the residuum: of turpentine, after, 
distilling it to obtain the essential oil. 

Dragon^S'blood, a resin of a red colour produced 
from certain trees in the East ladies and Madeira, 
and the Canary Islands. 

Gum-Elemi, a resin, the produce of trees growing. 
in the East Indies and Brazil. 

*$sphaltum, Jew's-pitch. This is a native bitu» 
men found in various parts of the world, ©fa.black- 
ish-brown colour. 

Common Pilch is the residuum after the distilla=. 
tion of tar. 

Elastic G?^m,. a substance froni thoiEast Indies 
arid the Brazils, having all the propei:ties of inspis-. 
sated bird-lime, or of the juice ofihe Misletoe. 

It dissolves in petroleum and oil of turpentine^ 



VARtriSHES. 3BS^ 

702. General Observations on rtiaking Varnishes of 
all Kinds. 

1st. As the substances that form varnishes are 
extremely inflam-mable, they ought only to be made 
in a. brick or stone room with a floor of the same 
materials. They should be cautiously kept from a 
iire that flames ; nor should a lighted candle come 
near them ; for the vapour, particularly of oil of 
turpentine and spirit of wine, xoill cafckfire at some 
distance, by means of fame of any kind. The opera- 
tor should always have by him a woollen cloth op 
3mall blanket in a tub of water to cover the vessel 
containing the ingredients in case of their taking 
fire. They can only be put out by thus excluding^ 
the air. 

2d. The substances should be freed,. as much as. 
possible, from impurities of every kind, particularly 
sandarac, and preserved free from dust. The ut- 
most cleanliness, in and about the vessels, is essen- 
fcialry necessary to good colour and transparency. 

3d. The substances, after, being broken into pie- 
ces, freed from impurities and heterogeneous sub-- 
stances, should be put by themselves in the melting 
pot. If reduced to powder or very small pieces, 
they stick to the sides of the pot, and burn and hurt 
the colour. 

4tii. All the resins should be kept in vessels well 
stopt and closed from dust. So of the oils and spirit. 

5th. When the varnish is made, it should be left 
some time for the dregs to settle: then be poured 
off clear, and then be filtered through silk or lawn. 

eth. For goods that are not to be exposed to the 
heat of the sun, the spirit varnishes will answer: 
but as sandarac and mastic willraclt in the sun, the 
Qil varnishes of copal and.amber are the most pro- 
per. 

7th. Glazed earthen vessels are better than iron s^ 
copper is soluble in oil, and therefore is not to be 



used. The most scrupulous cleanliness is necessaVy 
to success. 

703. Of Varnishes with Spirit of Wine, 
Copal-spirit Varnish. This receipt is kept a gi-exit 

secre't. Mr. Flenry, of Manchester, in England, and 
the SieurWatin, at Paris, make it. Henry's is ra- 
ther coloured. ^ 
; I have made it, by dissolving copal in a warm 
place, in any of the following essential oils : berga- 
motte, lavender, orange, lemon, rosemary, of which 
the last Ts the cheapest; dilute it with twice the 
quantity of highly rectiiied spirit of wine. If the bil 
of rosemary is much adulterated with oil of turpen- 
tine, it will not succeed. Oil of turpentine precipi- 
tates the copal ; but by twelve hours digestion (in; 
a small retort with a lamp heat) of oil of turpentine; 
On copal, I succeeded in making a perfectly Golour- 
less varnisho 

704. Colourless Spirit Varnish of Mastic and San- 

darac, . 
To one quart of rectified spirit add two ounces of 
mastic, in drops, and six, ounces of sandarac ; when 
well dissolved, add four ounces of pure Venice tur=^ 

pentine. 

If it is wanted to be harder, substitute two ounces- 
of gum-lac, half an ounce of gum-elemi, antitwo 
ounces of clear white rosin instead of the mastic and 
turpentine. But \hc colour will not be so good. 
The first is proper for toilet-boxes, &c. the last for 
€ane, chairs, furniture, &c. which are much hand- 
led. . 

705. Vafnish for Vlofins and Musical hi$trv.ments^\ 
Spirit of wine one quart, sandarac lour ounces, 

gum-laeca and mastic, each two ounces, gum-elemi 
one ounce ; when all is meited, add two ounces of 
turpentine. 



VARNISHES* 357 

V 'K)6. Gold-colour Varnish. 

Bruise separately four ounces of lacca, as much 
garnboge, as much dragon's blood, as much annatto, 
and one ounce of saffron. Put each of these into a 
quart of sj)irit of wine. Digest them in the sun or 
in a moderate heat for a fortnight, mix them with 
clear varnish of sandarac according to the tint you 
want. Four ounces of aloes dissolved in a quart of 
spirit will also be a good addition to the above in- 
gredients, and give you more command over the tint 
you may require. 

707, General Obser-mtions on Spirit Varnishes, 

1. A water-bath is the proper heat for spirit 
varnishes. A sand-bath is liable to be too hot, and 
embers or coals dangerous* 

When the water once boils, keep it boiling till 
the substances are dissolved. This you will find by 
stirring it with a glass, or white wood spatula, or 
a tobacco-pipe. By dissolv^ing salt in the water, you 
may increase the heat. When your substances are 
not quite dissolved, never put them on the fire a se- 
cond time to finish the solution. 

Never fill the vessels but about three parts full. 

2. Gum-elemi.gives consistence to the varnish, 
but should be used in small proportions. Brilliancy 
is given by the Venice and Chio turpentine. 

3. The turpentine should always be melted se- 
parately, when the substances are dissolved : it 
should be melted in a small quantity of spirit of 
wine, and then added. After the turpentine is add- 
ed, give the water-bath six or eight boil.«, and then 
take it off, and strain it through a very line sieve op 
fine linen. It will be still clearer by standing and re- 
pose. 

4. The general proportion of sandarac is about 
ten or twelve ounces to a quart of spirit, and so of 
the other gums: if others are substituted, Jhe sand^ 



^ 



B5B VARNISHES. 

arac must be proportionably diminished. The spi- 
rits of wine should fire gunpowderi 

0. If you want red or black varnishes, dragon's- 
blood and verniilion, Jew's pitch and lamp-blacky 
will answer your purpose. ■ 

6. Seed-lac makes harder varnish than shell-lac 5 
about ten ounces to the quart is enough. 

708. Oil Varnishes.— General Observations on Oil 

Varnishes, 

1. Copal and amber are the two principal sub- 
stances for oil varnishes; as each of them possesses 
the property of making a hard and transparent var- 
nish, they need not be mixed ; but copal should be 
reserved for the lighter coloured varnishes. Amber^ 
however, is tougher than copal, and a little of it cer- 
tainly improves copal varnish, if the tinge of colour 
is no objection. 

2. It requires a stronger fire to dissolve copal and 
amber when mixed with oil, than alone ; a strong 
heat hurts the colour. Melt therefore these resins 
by them&elves, broken into small pieces ; employ 
no more heat than is necessary to melt them ; 
when melted, add to them the hot linseed oil by 
degrees, stirring as you pour it in; then give a few- 
boilings to incorporate the whole. 

3. If ycHU have more than one resin to add, melt 
the hardest first, otherwise the most fusible will 
burn before the other is melted. ■ 

. 4. A sand-bath, or bright coals that do not 
flame, is the. proper heat for oil varnishes ; but 
give no more heat than is barely necessary to melt 
them. 

5. The vessels should be glazed earthenware 
with a cover; and new ones used, for copal varnish 
especially, every time. 

6. When the oil and the resin are incorporated 
and well stirred together, add your h'bt oil of tur? 



VARNISHES. 559 

peiuine ; this should be about double the quantity 
of the oil employed ; but the oil should not be boil- 
ing hot when the turpentine is poured in, otherwise 
it may catch fire. Stir it. 

7. Filter or strain the varnish; then let it rest at 
least forty-eight hours. The sediment will do for a 
coarser or more coloured varnish of the same kind t 
the oil mixed with the sediment will tarnish the co- 
lour at the second melting, 

709. Copal Varnish. 

Melt slowly one pound of copal ; add half a pint 
of boiling drying oil : when incorporated, add on€ 
pint of oil of turpentine made hot. You may add 
from half a pint to three pints of boiling dryipg oil, 
according to the consistence required. 

710. Another, 

Melt in a perfectly clean vessel, by a very slow 
heat, a pound of clear copal : to tiiis add from one 
to two quarts of drying linseed oil ; when the mate- 
rials are thoroughly mixed, remove the vessel from 
the tire, and keep constantly stirring it till most of 
M.ie heat is gone : then add one pound of oil of tur- 
pentine. Srain the varnish through a piece of close 
linen, and keep it for use. The older it is, the more 
drying does it become. 

711. Another, 

M. Carendeflc'Z, formerly of St. Domingo, and at 
present resident at New- York, finds that an ounce 
of good sulphuric aether, and an ounce of copal in 
gross powder, mixed together in a well stopped bot- 
tle, and placed in a moderate s^nd-heat or water- 
bath, form a perfect solution. Mr. C. remarks, that 
,.the solution, though not very cheap, affords a fine 
and brilliant varnish, and the process is so easy as 
to be repeated by any person though of very mode 
rate skill. ^ 



^ 



3B0 Y^^^'^s^^S' 

712. Gold^olour Varnish, or Lacker, 

Take eight ounces of amber, two ounces of lac- 
ca ; melt them ; add eight ounces of drying oil : then 
add oil of turpentine coloured with gamboge, annat- 
to, s&ffron and dragon's-blood, according to the 
tinge you want. 

713. Black Japario 

Melt eight ounces of amber; melt (separately 
from the amber) four -ounces of asphaltum, and four 
ounces rosin: when melted, add eight ounces of 
boiling oil, and then sixteen ounces ofoil of turpen- 
tine ; then stir in from half an ounce to one ounce 
lamp-black, and give it another boil or two. 

714. Common Varnish. 

One pound of rosin, one ounce..gum-elemi, eight 
ounces drying oil, and sixteen ouncesoil of , turpen- 
tine. 

715. Varnishes 7vHh>Turpentine aione. 

Oil of turpentine will disso^l ve any of these resins, 
except CQpal and amber; but it does not make so 
good varnish as when mixed with boiled oil. 

716. Common Turperiiinc Varnish 

Is frequently made by. dissolving one pound' of 
turpentine, or about ten ounces of rosin, in oil of 
turpentine alone. 

717. Elastic Gum Varnish. 

Cut the. gum into small pieces, and digest it with 
thirty-two parts of pure oil of turpentine for twenty- 
four hours in a warm, place* Rosemary, lavender, 
and other essential oils also dissolve it. So does 
nitric aether. If softened by boiling in water, or still 
more in a solution of alum, it may be joined. 

715. Varnishes «/* Gums . 

G«m-traijgacanth and gum-arabic may be dissolv- 



VARNISHES. S6l 

eel in water; or the first in brandy. Ichthyocolla 
(isinglas) is best dissolved in brandy or whiskey. 

719. ElasiicGum, 

Size—^Vi'om diluted glue ; from white leather cut- 
tings. 
Fish Size — Boiled eel skins. 

720. Martinis Copal Varnish^ 

"In a Targe gallon earthen pot, with a cover like ^ 
chocolate pot, melt four ounces Chio turpentine ; 
when fluid, pour in eight ounces of atnber powder- 
ed ; set it on the fire a quarter of an hour. Take o(r 
the pot ; add to it one pound of pounded copal, four 
or more of turpentine, and one gill of warm oil of 
turpentine. Increase the heat a little ; when it has 
been on the fire half an hour, take it off, stir the in- 
gredients, adding two ounces of the finest and 
whitest colophony or rof?in. Set it again on the fire, 
and increase the heat till the whole is quite fluid. 
Remove tire pot ; Jet ih-e heat subside a little ; have 
ready twenty-four ounces (about one pint and a 
quarter) of drying linseed oil, poppy, or nut oil; 
pour it boiling hot by degrees into your gums and 
stir them vvelL When mixed, set it again on the fire, 
stirring it till it boils u]i; then take it off* and add a 
quart of turpentine made hot; stir and give it one 
boil more; then add another pint of turpentine 
made hot ; stir it well, give it one more boil, and it 
is enough. Strain it ; if thicker than linseed oil, thin 
it with oil of turpentine. Let it stand a month be- 
fore it is used. It should be rnade in an open yard, 
for the frequent practice is very unwholesome. 

Great danger will attend the addition of copal, as 
the same heat which would be required to dissolve 
-The copal would volatilize the turpentine, and take 
fire if the vapour were directed to the flame<, 



F F 



k 



362 VARNISHESo 

*721, Another Varnish, 

Melt eight ounces of Chio turpentine, pour in one 
pound of powdered amber by degrees, stirring it all 
the while ; set it on the fire for half an hour, then 
add two ounces of white rosin ; stop the cover close, 
and increase the fire till the whole is melted. To 
this add one pound of hot drying oil ; and then by 
degrees a quart of oil of turpentine. Amber can on- 
ly be dissolved clear, by melting it with some less 
glutinous gum. Same process for copal varnish.—' 
Dom. Enc, vol. v. {Philadelphia) p. 233. 

722. Varnish for coloured Drawings and Prints, 

Take of Canada balsam one ounce, spirit of tur- 
pentine two ounces ; mix them together. Before 
this composition is applied, the drawing or print 
should be sized with a solution of isinglass in wa- 
ter ; and when dry, apply the varnish with a camel's 
hair brush. 

723. To varnish plaster Casts or Models*^ 

Take about a quarter of an ounce avoirdupoise, 
^f the finest white soap, grate it small, and put it in- 
to a new glazed earthen vessel, with an English pint 
of water ; hold it overthe fire till the soap is dissolv- 
ed, then add the same quantity of bleached wax cut 
into small pieces : as soon as the whole is incorpo- 
rated, it is fit for use. 

Mode of application, — Dry the model well at the 
fire, suspend it by a thread, and dip it in the var« 
nish ; take it out, and a quarter of an hour after dip 
it in again ; let it stand for six or seven days, then, 
■with a bit of muslin rolled softly round your finger, 
rub the model gently, and this will produce a bril- 
liant gloss ; but this part of the operation must be 
done with great care and a light hand, as the coat 
of varnish is thin* 



VARNISHES, oH^ 

72.4'. .Another Way, 

Take skim milk, from which the cream has been 
carefully taken off, and with a camel's hair pencil 
lay over the cast till it holds out*, or will imbibe no 
more ; shake or blow off any that remains on the sur- 
face, and lay it in a place free from dust ; and when 
it is dry, it will look like polished marble. 

N. B. Tiiis last mode answers equally well with 
the former, but will not resist the weather. 

725. Varnish for Earthenware, 

To make it white, glass and soda in equal prO' 
portion must be pounded together, very fine, care- 
fully sifted, and well mixed. This mixture must 
next be exposed to a strong heat till it is rendered 
very dry. It is after that to be put into vessels which 
have been already baked ; it will then be melted, 
and (he varnish 13 made. It may be applied in the 
usual manner. 

726. French soft Varnish for Engravers, 

One ounce of virgin's wax, one ounce of asphal- 
lum or Greek pitch, half an ounce of common pitch, 
and a quarter of an ounce of Burgundy pitch. 

N. B. The celebrated Vivares, the landscape 
engraver, always used this varnish, in preference 
to any other. 

727. Varnish for Furniture, 

To one part of virgin's white wax add eight parts 
of oil of petroleum; lay a slight coat of this mix- 
ture on the wood with a badger's brush, while a little 
warm ; the oil will then evaporate, and leave a thin 
coat of wax, which should afterwards be polished 
with a coarse woollen cloth. 

728. A Varnish for Toilet BoX€S^ Cases, Fans, 4rc» 
Dissolve two ounces of gum-mastic, and eight 



364 VARNISHES, 

ounces of gum^sandarac, in a qiiartof alcohol ; then 
add four ounces of Venice turpentine. 

7.29* Preparation oj^ the true Copal Varnish,.. 

Take two parts of gum copal, reduced to a.-fine^ 
powder ; wash it repeatedly in water, to free it from; 
the woody fibres ; then introduce it into a flask, and 
pour it over four parts of pure oil of rosemary : di- 
gest the mixture in a gentle heat for three days, or 
longer; after whichj add as much highly rectified 
spirits of wine as is deemed necessary, and suffer it 
to remain undisturbed, until the impurities subside s 
then decant the varnish. 

730. To make Varnish for Oil Paintings, 
According to the number of your pictures, take 

the whites of the same number of eggs, and to each 
picture take the bigness of a hazel-nut of white su- 
gar-candy, dissolved, and mix it with a tea-spoon- 
ful of brandy; beat the whites of your eggs to a 
froth ; then let it settle ; take tlie cl^ar, put to it 
your brandy and sugar,^ and varnish over your pic- 
tures with it; this is much better than any other 
varnish, as it is easily washed offv/hen your pictures- 
want cleaning again. 

731. To make White Varnish, 

Dissolve gum-sandarac and gum-mastIc in spirits 
of wine ; leave it to settle for two days ; then strain 
it through a linen cloth, let it stand for some tmie, 
pour off the clear liquid, and bottle it for use., 

732. Another^ by Dr, Withering, 

Take of gum-sandarac an ounce and a half; mas- 
tic, in drops, half an ounce ; gum-elemi, a quarter 
of an ounce ; oil of spikelavender, a quarter of an 
ounce ; put them into a half-pint phial, and fill it up 
ivith best spirits of wine. Let it stand in rather a 
warm place, till all the gums are dissolved, and tlien. 



VARNISHES. 365 

pour off the varnish into a clean phial, and it will be 
ready for use. 

733. A Varnish for preserving Insects^ Fruits, ^^c. 

Take one pound of rectified spirits of wine, and 
two ounces of white amber; add thereto an ounce 
of white sandarac and white mastic, an ounce 
a'nd a half of Venice turpentine ; digest the whole 
in banco maria3 during forty-eight hours, to an en- 
tire dissolution ; take out the intestines of the insect 
you have a mind^to preserve; lay them for some 
days in rectified spirits of vvine,,.mixed with clarified 
sugar-candy ; afterwards besmear them with your 
varnish till they are transparent as glass; in this 
manner you will preserve them a long time. 

This varnish succeeds equally with vegetables 
and fruits, which never rot or decay when not af- 
fected by the exterior air as has been observed with 
regard to cherries, which are preserved perfectly 
well, by besmearing them with meked white waxo 

734. Method' of preparing Linseed Oil Varnish. 

One pound of well pulverized and sifted litharge, 
four ounces of finely pounded white vitriol, and one 
quart of Unseed oil. Put these ingredients into an 
iron pan of such a size that it may be only half full; 
mix them well together, and boil them till the mois- 
ture is evaporated, which may be known by a pel- 
licle being formed on the surface,, or by the barrel of 
a quill bursting when thrust to t,he bottom of the 
boiling varnish. Then take it from the fire and pour 
off the clear liquid, taking care to keep back the 
thick part, which has deposited itself at the bot- 
tom. While boiling, it must be stirred several times 
round, that the litharge may not fall to the bottom ; 
but stir it constantly, else supeiliuous litharge will 
be dissolved, and the varnish become too thick. 
• The composition of amber varnish consists of 
Kulf a pound of melted or roasted amber, one pound ■ 

ff2 



S^G VARNISHES. 

and a half of linseed oil varnish, and two pounds of 
turpentine oil. The amber and linseed oil varnish 
are to be mixed together in a deep cast-iron pan, of 
such a size as to be only one-third full, and to be 
kept over a slow fire till the. amber is dissolved, 
which may be known by its swelling up ; the ope- 
rator therefore must have at hand a large copper, oi' 
iron vessel, that the varnish may be held over it in 
case it should rise above the sides of the pan, and to 
prevent the loss that would thereby be occasionedo. 
■ — When the varnish is dissolved, the pan must be 
taken from the fire ; and when the mixture has cool- 
ed, the turpentij^e.oil is to be poured into it, contin- 
ually stirring it. Then let it stand some time, that 
the coarse undissolved particles may deposit them- 
selves at the boUom j after which pour off the clear 
varnish, andj having strained it through a piece of 
linen, put it in bottles for use. 

In boiling the varnish, care must be taken that it 
may not boil over, or catch .fire. Should this happen 
to be the case, it must not be extinguished by wa- 
ter; for this mode would occasion such a spatter- 
ing, that the operator would be in danger of having 
his face bespattered with the boiling varnish. The 
best method, therefore, is to cover the vessel in such 
a manner as to exclude the air, and for this purpose 
to have at hand a piece of \Vood, plate of irori, or 
any thing else that may cover the vessel and ex- 
tinguish the flame. 

735. Varnish for Pales and coarse Wood Work* 

Take any quantity of tar, and grind it with as 
much Spanish brown as it will bear, without render- 
ing it too thick to be used as a paint or varnish, and 
then spread it on the pales, or other wood, as soon 
as convenient, for it quickly hardens by keeping. 

This mixture must be laid on the wood to be var- 
iiishedj by a large brush, or house-painter's too! i 



VARNISHE5. SQT 

and the work should then be kept as free from dust 
as possible, till the varnish be thoroughly dry. It 
will, if laid on smooth- wood, have a very good 
gloss, and is an excellent preservative of it against 
moisture; on which account, as well as its being 
cheaper, it is far preferable to painting, not only 
for pales, but for weather-boarding, and all other 
kinds of wood-work for grosser purposes. Where 
the glossy brown colour is not liked, the work may 
be made of a greyish brown, by mixing a small pro- 
portion of white lead, or whitening, or ivory blacky 
with the Spanish browa».. 
736. To make; Gold Varnish. 

This ingenious process, which is at present em- 
ployed throughout Europe, in gilding wooden 
frames, coaches, and various articles, and which, 
was formerly used in the preparation of the now old- 
fashioned leather tapestry, was invented towards- 
the end of the sixtcenih century. . The composition 
is as follows :~— 

Take gum-lac, and having freed it from the filth 
and bits of wo^ with which it is mixed, put it into 
a small linen l^, and wash it, in pure water, till 
the water becomes no longer red, then take it from^ 
the bag and.suilfer it to dry. WJien it is perfectly 
dry, pound it very fine, because, the finer it is pound- 
ed it will dissolve the more rcadil'yc Then take 
four parts of spirits of wine, and 'one of gum, re- 
duced, as before directed, to an impalpable powder, 
so that for every four pounds of spirits you may 
have one of gum.; mix these together; and, having 
put them into an alembic, graduate the fire so that 
the gum may dissolve in the spirits. When dis- 
solved, strain the whole through a strong piece of" 
linen cloth ; throv/ away what remains in the cloth, 
as of no use^ and preserve the liquor in a glass bot- 
tle, closely corked^ This is the gold varnish which 
may be employed for gilding any kind of wood. 



363 VARNISHES. 

When yoa wish to use it, you must, in order that 
the work may be done wrth more smoothness, era- 
ploy a brush made of the tail of a certain quadrupecF 
called Vari, well known to those who sell colours 
for painting ; and with this instrument dipped in the' 
liquor, wash over gently, three times, the wood' 
which has been silvered. You must, however, re-* 
member, every time you pass the brush over the 
wood, to let it dry: for, in so doing, your work will 
be extremely beautiful,, and have a resemblance to^ 
the finest gold. 

737. Varnish for Drazvings, Prints, 4'"^. <^c. 

Boil four ounces of isinglass, in small pieces, in 
one quart of brandy or spirits of wine, expose it to' 
the air, and when only warm wash-over the print or 
drawing (which should be previously mounted) and 
let it stand till quite dry ; then wash it again at a 
Srma 11 distance from the fire, or it will blister, which 
repeat two or three ^mes ; then go twice over witli> 
the following white varnish i^-— Take of gum-sanda-. 
rac and gum-mastic equal parts ; dissolve them in 
spirits of wine ; let them settle two days, then strain 
tirough a liiien cloth^ andpour the clear liquor iflto 
a bottle for use. 

738. To make a Baequer far Brasso. 

Take eight ounces of spirits of wine, and one^ 
ounce of annatto, weH bruised; mix this in a bottle 
by itself; then take one ounce of gamboge, and mix 
it in like manner, to the same quantity of spirits: 
also bruised safiron, steeped in spirits, to nearly 
the same proportion. After this take seed-lac var- 
nish, v/hat quantity you please, and you may bright- 
en it to your mind by the above mixture : if it be 
too yellow, add a little more from, the annatto bottle j* 
and if it be too red, add a little more from the gam^ 
boge, or saffron liottle: if too strong, add-a little spir- 
its of wine, &c. Tiius you may temper lacquer or 
varnish to whatdegree of perfcGtlon you please. 



VARNISHES. 



3^9- 



739. To make Chinese Varnish, 

Take of gum-lac in grains four ounces ; put it into 
a strong bottle, with a pound of good spirits of wine, 
and add about the bulk of a hazel nut of camphor ; 
allow them to mix in summer in the sun, or in win- 
ter on hot embers, for twenty-four hours, shaking 
the bottlft from time to time ; pass the whole through 
a fine cloth, and throw away what remains upon it. 
Then let it settle for twenty-four hours, and yoa 
will find a clear part in the up{5er part of the bottle,, 
which you must separate gently, and put into anotk- 
erphialj and the remains v;ill serve for the first lay- 
ers. 

740. Varnish to prevent the Rays of the Sun from ^ 
passing through the Glasses of Windows* 

Pulverize gum-tragacanth, and put it to dissolve 
for twenty-four hours in whites of eggs well beaten. . 
Lay a coat of this on the panes of your windows . 
with a soft brush, and let it dry. 

741. Seed'Lac Varnisho 

Take spirit of wi«c cne quart ; put it into a wide- 
mouthed bottle, and add thereto eight ounces of 
seed-lac, wUich is laj'ge grained, bright, and clear, 
free from dirt and sticks : let it stand two days or 
longer,, in a warm place, often shaking it, strain- 
it through a flannel into another bottle, and it is fit, 
for use. 

742. Shell-Lac Varnish, . 

Take good spirits of wine one quart, eight ounces 
of the thinnest and most transparent shell-lac, 
v/hich, if melted in the flame of a candle, will draw 
out in the longest and finest hair ; mix and shake 
these together, and let them stand in a warm place 
for two days, and it is ready for use. This varnish 
is softer than that which is made of seed-lac, there- 



f 



I 



370 REMEDIES FDR DESTROYING VERMIN. 

fore is not so useful, but may be mixed with it foi' 
Tarnishing wood, &c. 



CHAPTER XXXiy. 

EFFICACIOUS REMEDIES FOR DESTROYING 
VERMM 



*43i To destroy Ants* 

Ants tliat frequent houses or gardens miay fee cTe" 
stroyed by taking flower of brimstone half a pounds 
and pot-ash four ounces : set them in an iron or 
earthen pan over the fire till dissolved and united ; 
afterwards beat them to a powder, and infuse a lit- 
tle of this powder in water ; and wherever you sprin° 
Ide it the auts will die, or fly the place. 

744. To destroy Ants, 

Corrosive sublimate, mixed well with sugar, has 
proved a mortal poison to them, and is the most 
effectual way of destroying these insects. 

745. To dtsty-oy Beetles, 

: The mode of destroying beetles is when the fire 
is put out at bed-time, to lay a little treacle on a 
piece of wood, afloat, in a broad pan of water.— 
These vermin are so fond of treacle, that they will 
even struggle to gain it in the agonies of death. 

746. Another Method, 

Take some small lumps of unslacked lime, and 
put into the chinks or holes from which they issue^ 
it will effectually destroy them ; or it may be scat- 
tered on the ground,, if they are more numerous 
than in their holes* 



REKEDIES FOR DESTROYING VERMIN, S7i 

747. For destroying Bugs and lVor7ns in Wood, 

An eminent physician has discovered that by 
rubbing wood with a solution of vitriol, insects and 
bugs are prevented from harbouring therein. When 
the strength of this remedy is required to be increas- 
ed, there need only be boiled some coloquintida ap- 
ples in water, in which, afterwards, vitriol is dis- 
solved, and the bedstead, with the wood about 
them, and the wainscoting being anointed with the 
liquor, will fee ever after clear of worms or bugs, 
"The wall may be likewise rubbed with the com])o- 
sition, and some of it may be dropped into the holes 
where these insects are suspected to be harboured. 
As to the walls, they require only to be washed over 
with the vitriol water. 

748. To drive <tway Crickets,- 

These troublesome insects, from a superstitious 
notion tha-t they bring good luck, are frequently 
preserved. Thoise who wish to have them remov- 
ed will find the smoke of charcoal destroy them, 
and loud sounds drive them away. Cock roaches 
are likewise destroyed by the smoke of charcoal. 

749. To destroy Crickets, 

Mix some roasted apple with a little white arsen- 
ic powdered, and put a little of this mixture into the 
holes or cracks in which the crickets are ; they 
will eat it and perish. 

7^0. Methods of stopping the Ravages nf'ihe Cater- 
pillars from Shrubs, Plants^ and Vegetables, 

Take a chafing-dish, with lighted charcoal, and 
place it under the branches of the tree, or bush, 
whereon are the caterpillars -, then throw- a little 
brimstone on the coals. This, however, must be 
done only in very small quantities, lost the sulphur 
destroy the plants. The vapour of the sulphurj 



t7^ REMEDIES FOR DESTROYING VERMIN. 

which is mortal to these insects, and the sufFocail* 
log fixed air arising from the charcoal, will not oa« 
ly destroy all that are on the tree, but will ^rfectu- 
ally prevent the shrubs from being, that season, in- 
fested with them. A pound 6f sulphur will clear as 
many trees as. grov»^ on several acres. 

Another method of driving these insects off fruit- 
; trees is to boil together a quantity of rue, worm- 
wood, and common tobacco, of each equal paints, 
in common water. The liquor should be very 
strong. Sprinkle this on the leaves and young 
'branches every morning arid evening during tlie 
time the fruit is ripening. 

In the Economical Jotirnal of France, the follow- 
ing method of guarding'cabbages from the depre- 
dations of caterpillars is stated to be infallible, and 
may, perhaps, be efjuaily serviceable against those 
which infest other vegetables. Sow with -hemp all 
l(he borders of the ground wherein the cabbage is 
planted ; and, although the neighbourhood be in- 
fested with caterpillars, the space inclosed by • the 
hemp will be perfectly freej and not ane of these 
vermin will approach it. 

751. Liquor for destroying Caterpiilars, Ants^ mid 

other Insects, 

Take a pound and three quarters of soap, the 
same quantity of flowers ofsuiphur, two pounds of 
champignons, or puff balls, and fifteen gallons of 
water. When the whole has been well mixed, by 
tlie aid of a gentle heat, sprinkle the insects with 
the liquor, and it will instantly kill them. 

752. For destroyin-g CalcrpUlurs vn Gooseberry 

Bushes, 

Take one Scots pint (two English quarts) of to- 
bacco liquor (which may be made, where it cannot 
be purchased, by infusing any kind of tobacco ia 
water till all the strength be extracted) wWch the 



REMEDIES FOR DESTROYING VERMIN. 373 

manufacturers of tobacco generally sell for destroy- 
ing bugs, andmixthem withaboutoneouricc ofalurn ; 
and when the alun:i is sufficiently dissolved, put this 
mixture into a plate, or other vessel, wide and 
long enough to admit of a brush, like a weaver's 
brush, being dipped into it ; and as early in the 
season as you can perceive the leaves of the bush- 
es to be in the least eaten, or the eggs upon the 
leaves (which generally happens about the end of 
May) and which will be found in great numbers on 
the veins of tlie leaves on their under side ; you are 
then to take the preparation, or liquor, and after 
dipping the brush into it, and -holding the brush 
towards the under side of the bush, which is to be 
raised and supported by tlie hands of another pcr- 
,• son ; and by drawing your hand gently over the 
-tiairs of the brush, the above liquid is sprinkled, 
and falls in small drops on the leaves; the conse- 
quence of which is, if the eggs are there, they 
never come forward; and if they have already gen- 
erated worms, in a minute or two after the liquor 
touches them, they either die or sicken, so as to 
fall off the bush ; at least they do so upon giving it 
a little shake. If, upon their thus falling off, they 
shall not appear completely dead, the bush should 
be held up, and either a little boiling water from a 
.watering-pot thrown over them, or a bruise given 
them by a spade or shovel ; or the earth, whtrc? (hey 
lie, turned over with a hoe. This preparation 
does not in the least ityure the bushes. 

753. To preserve Flowers^ Leaves^ and Fruity from 
Caterpillars, 

These depredators are destroyed by oils, wliich 
close the lateral pores by which they breathe. For 
this purpose it is advised, that on the approach of 
spring, a ciolh, dipped in train oil, be laid on such 

e G 



.374 REMEDIES FOR DESTROYING VERTVIIN. 

parts of the tree in which there is the least appear- 
ance of them. 

734. Method to destroy or drive away Earth Worms^ 
and other Lisects, hurtfuL to Fields and Gardens, 

Three parts of quicklime, newly made, and two 
<parts of soap-boilers lye or potash dissolved in wa- 
ter, will produce a somewhat milky liquor sufficient- 
ly caustic, and highly hostile and poisonous to earth 
worms and other small animals ; for, as soon as it 
touches any pai^ of their bodies, jt occasions in 
them violent symptoms of great uneasiness. If this 
liquor be poured into those holes, in which the 
earth worms reside under ground, they immediate- 
ly throw themselves out as if driven by some force, 
and, after various contortions, languish and die. 
If the leaves of plants or fruit trees, frequented by 
the voracious caterpillars, which are so destruc- 
tive to them, be sprinkled over with .this liquor, 
these insects suddenly contract their bodies and 
drop to the ground. For, though nature ha& de- 
fended them tolerably well by their hairy skins^ 
from any thing that might ;injuro their delicate bo- 
dies ; yet, as soon as. they touch with their feet or 
mouths the leaves which have been moistened by 
this liquor, .they become, as it were, stupified, in- 
stantly contract themselves, and fall down. 

755. To destroy Earwigs and Wood 'Lice, 

A very simple way of ensnaring them, and by 
which they may be taken alive in great quantities, 
is to place four inch cuts of reeds, feean haulm, or 
strong wheat straw, among the branches, and also 
lay a number on the ground, at the bottom of the 
wall. In these the insects take refuge at day- 
break, as. they depredate chiefly in the night ; and 
any time through the day they may be blown into a 
.fcotde with a little water in it, and so be drowned^ 



REMEDIES FOR DESTROYING VERMIN. o7l^ 

Or, a cheaper way is to burn the straw, and scatter 
iVesh on the ground. 

756. Remedies against Fleas* 

Fumigation with brimstone, or the fresh leaves 
of penny-royal sewed in a bag, and laid in the bed, 
will have the desired efTect. 

757. To destroy Fleas on Dogs. 

Rub the animal, when out of the house, with the 
common Scotch snufT, except the nose and eyeso 
Rub the powder well in to the roots of the hair. 
Clear lime-water destroys the whitish flea-worn:! 
without injuring the skin or hair. Oil of turpentine 
will likewise do so; but if there be any manginess, 
or the skin be broken, it will give the animal much- 
pain. 

758. To clear Gardens of Vermin, by Duclcs. 

Ducks are excellent vermin-pickers, whethbr of 
caterpillars (such as are within their reach,) slugs, 
snails, and others, and ought to be turned into the 
garden one or two days every v/eek throughout the 
season. Never keep them longer in than two oi* 
jhree hours at a time, else they become indolent. 
While here, they should have a little water set 
down to them, if there be no pond or stream in the 
garden. 

Never turn them into the garden in the time of 
heavy rains, or in continued wet weather, as in 
that case, and particularly if the soil be stiff, they 
patter and harden the surface to the great injury of 
small crops and rising seeds. 

759. The Use of Garlic against Moles, Grubs, and 

Snails, 

Moles are such enemies to the smeU of garlic, that, 
in order to get rid of these troublesome and destruc- 
tive guests, it is suliicient to introduce a few heads 



376 REMEDIES rOR DESTROYING VERMIN. 

of garlic into their subterraneous walks. It is like- 
wise employed with success against grubs and 
snails. 

760. Th^ Use of Sulphur in destroying Insects on 
Plants, and its Benefit for Vegetation, 

Tie up some flour of sulphur in a piece of mus- 
lin or fine linen, and with this the leaves of young 
shoots of plants should be dusted, or it may be 
thrown on them by means of a common swansdown 
puf]', or even by a dredging-box. 

Fresh assurances have repeatedly been received 
of the powerful influence of sulphur against the 
whole tribe of insects and worms which infest and 
prey on vegetables. Sulphur has also been found 
to promote the health of plants, on which it was 
sprinkled ; and that peach trees, in particular, were 
remarkably improved by it, and seemed to absorb 
It. It has likewise been observed, that the ver- 
dure, and other healthful appearances, were per- 
ceptibly increased; for the quantity of new shoots 
at;d leaves formed subsequently to the operation, 
and having no sulphur on their surfaces, served as 
a kind of comparative' index, and pointed out, dis- 
tinctly, the accumulation of health. 

761. Method of destroying Insects on Fruit Trees. 

Make a strong decoction of tobacco, and the ten- 
der shoots of elder, by pouring boiling water oo 
them ; then sprinkle your trees with the same (cold) 
twice a week, for two or three weeks, with a small 
hearth brush, which will etrectually destroy the in- 
sects, and the leaves will retain their verdure until 
the fall of the year. 

If used eariy, as soon as the bud unfolds itself, \t 
will probably prevent the fly. The elTect of tobac- 
co has been long known, and elder water frequent- 
ly sprinkled on honeysuckles and roses has been. 
found to prevent insects from lodging on them. 



^EMEDI-ES rOR DESTROYING VERMIN. 377 

The quantity to be made use of is one ounce of 
lobacco to one gallon of water, with about two 
handfuls of elder. You may, however, make it as 
strong as you please, it being perfectly innocent to 
the plants. 

762. To destroy Insects prejudicial to Apple Trees. 
To one hundred gallons of human urine, and > 

one bushel of lime, add cow-dung to bring it to the 
consistence of paint. With this composition anoint 
the trees. The month of March is the proper sea- 
son for applying it. If the white efflorescence-like 
substance, in which the insects are lodged, has 
made its appearance, it should previously be brush- 
ed off. 

763. To destroy Insects on Fruit Trees, 
Wasps, about the month of July, will begin to 

swarm about the early fruits, and for their destruc- 
tion, phials should be hung about the branches half 
filled with honey and water, or with sugar and small 
beer. These should be emptied and replaced once 
in two or three days otherwise they do not take so 
well ; these little animals being extremely saga- 
cious, and disliking the appearance of their own 
species dead. 

764. To destroy Insects on Fruit Trees. 
Winter is the proper season to apply the follow- 
ing solution. The juices are then determined to 

the root: — 

Soft soap, two pounds; leaf or roll tobacco, one 
pound ; nux vomica, two ounces ; and turpentine, 
half an English gill ; boil them in eight English gal- 
Ions of soft or river water, to six 5 and use it milk- 

"^varm. rum 

Unnail, or unti«, all the branches from the walil 
or trellis ; brush every part of the tree clean wilha 
soft brush, such as is used for painting ; then, with. 

GG 2 



378 REMEDIES FOR DESTROYING VERMIN". 

a sponge, carefully anoint every branch, root, an^ 
bud 5 and be sure rub it well into every joint, 
hole, and angle, as it is there the eggs or larvae of 
the insects are chiefly lodged. The rails, spars, 
&c. ofthe espalier or trellis, should also be anoint- 
ed as above. 

This operation should be repeated every winter, 
sometime between the fall of the leaf and the first of 
February, as may be most convenient. The solu- 
tion is effectually destructive to all kinds of insects, 
their eggs or larvae. 

7-65. To kill Reptiles. 

Take twelve ounces of quicklime in powder, two 
ounces of Scotch snuff, two ounces of basket salt^ 
iwo ounces of sulphur vivum, dissolved in ten gal- 
ions of water, and thrown on the insects, either in 
the liquid or powder, will destroy them. 

766 . To prevent Slugs from getting into Fruit Trees». 

If the trees are standards, tie a coarse horse- 
hair rope about them, two or three feet from the 
ground. If they are against the wall, nail a nar- 
row slip of coarse horse-hair cloth against the wall, 
about half a foot from the ground, and they will 
never get over it, for if they attempt it, it will kill 
them, as their bellies are soft, and the horse-hair 
will wound them. 

767. To destroy Snails, 

Snails are great enemies to wall-fruit ; and in a 
flewy morning you may easily find where they most 
deligjrTt to breed ; but the best way is to find out 
their haunts in a hard winter, and then destroy 
them; they lie Diuch in holes of walls, under thorns, 
behind old trees, or old and close hedges. — If you 
pluck not the fruit they have begun to devour, hut 
let it alone, they will finish their repast on this be- 
fore they begin another. 



REMEDIES FOR DESTROYING VERMIN. 373" 

76^. To destroy the Red Spider^ so troublesome in dry 

Seasons. 

The red spider makes its appearance in hot dry- 
weather, and is always found on the under sides of 
the leaves, generally on roughish leaves, but not al- 
ways so. It preys on the apple, cherry, fig. peach, 
pear, and plum, seldom on the apricot. It is among 
the smallest of the acari ; and is sometimes not dis- 
tinguishable without a microscope. If the bark of 
the leaf be viewed through one, it appears full of its 
webbs : and if many abound on it, the leaf appears 
full of punctures, becomes discoloured, and brown 
on the upper sui'face, fades, and falls off. 

This insect is more troublesome in dry seasons 
than in moist ones, and is wonderfully encouraged 
by heat, in&omuch that hot-houses of every descrip- 
tion are sadly infested with it. Water, and water 
only, is its bane; and the syringe, or the force- 
pump, the engine of its destruction. It is not a mere 
sprinkling that will do; it requires a forcible dash- 
ing to and fro, and that often repeated, to be effec-» 
tual. 

769. To destroy Vermin in Children's Heads* 

Take one ounce of vinegar, one ounce of staves- 
acre, well powdered, half an ounce of honey, half 
an ounce of sulphur, and two ounces of sweet oil ; 
mix the whole well together into a liniment, and rub 
the head repeatedly with a little thereof. 

770. To destroy Vermin in Granaries, and other 

Out- Buildings, 

Cover completely the walls and rafter?, above 
and below, of the granaries, &;c. wiiich are infested 
with weevils and other vermin, with quicklime 
slacked in water, in which trefoil, wormuood, and 
hyssop, have been boiled. This composition ought 
to be applied ^& hot as possible. 



380 REiVlEDIES FOR DESTROYING VERMTN^ 

771. To destroy Vermin on Animals. 

Oil of turpentine, when applied to animals, which 
were covered with insects, destroyed the insects 
without hurting the animal.^ 

772. To destroy Insects on Wall Fruit Trees, 

Take an old tin watering pan, or any similar ves- 
sel, and make a charcoal lire in it; add a tube or 
pipe, made of either tin, leather, or stiff paper, to 
the spout, which may be of any sufficient length ; 
then strew some brimstone, tobacco dust, fine shreds 
of leather, &;c. upon the fire, in the pan, and cover 
the top ; having a pair of bellows ready, hold the 
wind-flap over the tube or pipe to receive the 
smoke, which it will do very effectually when you 
.use the bellows. By this means the suflbcating va- 
pour may be directed through the bellows to any 
part of the tree with the greatest ease and facility, 
and the tree soon cleared of all vermin. This method 
is much more eilectual than the old one, where a 
chafing-dish has been recommended for this pur- 
pose, because the latter metl^od is more trouble- 
some, and requires the wind to blow from a partic- 
ular quarter right against the trees, which can sel- 
dom be obtained. 

773. , To destroy JVctsps and Flies instantly. 

Wasps and flies may be killed very fast, by dip- 
ping a feather in a little sweet oil, and touching their 
backs with it ; they will instantly die. When intent 
on the fruit, and half-buried in the excavations they 
have made, they are easily come at, and are not 
apt to fly about. Insects of different kinds are easi-l 
ly killed by oil; it closes up the lateral pores by 
which they breathe. 

774. Method of destroying Wasps and Hornets, 
Those that are not unacquainted with natural his-? ■ 

tory know that all the working wasps die every au» | 




REMEDIES FOR DESTROY I.VG VER^IIN. 381 

liinin, v;hen the cold weather comes on, anJ that on- 
ly a (cw femoles survive the winter, and keep up 
the breed. These (which are turo;id with eggs, and 
much larger than the workers) come forth about 

'' pril from their lurking holes, and being singly each 
ils nest, which in a modei'ate time becomes popu- 
lous. It is therefore of great consequence to kill as 
many of these as possible, since a whole swarm is 
destroyed in every single female early in the year. 
The places to find them ai-e at new posts, pales, me- 
lon frames, or any solid limber ; for, as they make 
their combs with the shavings of the sound wood, 
which they rasp off with their fangs, and moisten up 
with a certain mucus that nature has provided it> 
their bodies, they will readily be found near sucli 
materials. 

Hornets must be searched for on decayed posts, 
rails, &LQ, for they make their combs with touch- 
wood, and the same kind of natural cement. 

In the very hot summer of 1762, wasps were so 
nunierous and alert that it looked as if no fruit could 
have hung till it was fit ^or the table. They began 
on the giapcs before they were half ripe; and, get- 
ting into the melon-frames, scooped out all the pulp 
of the fruit, leaving only empty sliells. I tried phials, 
as usuolj filled with sugared beer, &c. this destroy- 
ed some, but did not seem to lessen their swarms ; 
at last I bethought myself to buy some birdlime, 
with which I tipped several taper hazel-rods of dif- 
ferent lengths, and so began catching them by hand, 

;. plying the top of the rod as they settled on the 
iruit. This appeared at first to be a tedious method ; 
but, after a little practice, it soon had the desired el- 
i( ct, for a handy person or two would in a few hours 
entangle four or five hundred; and it soon appear- 
ed they were not so numerous as we imagined ; and 
the taking the workers starved the grubs, which arc 

npportcd by them, and prevented a succession, 




382" REMEDIES FOR DESTROYING VERMrN". 

By this simple method, ineffectual as it may appear,)' 
1 saved my fruit entire, which hung till it was ripen- 
ed to great perfection. 

Hornets, as they are larger and more sluggish, 
are easily taken : this method of touching them is a 
sort of angling, and not a bad amusement for half 
an hour. As fast as they are caught they must be 
squeezed to death with a fiat piece of lath, the tip- 
of the rod refreshed widi birdlime now and then. 
The reason of providing rods of different lengths is 
to suit the different heights of the u'all. 

While I am. speaking of fruit it may not be amiss 
to add, that this summer I recovered a peach-tree- 
that was quite shrivelled up on one side by a par- 
tial watering, two or three times a week, of the af- 
fected part. 

775. To destroy Worms in Gardens* 

Water your beds with a strong decoction of wal- 
nut-tree leaves where there are worm casts ; the. 
worms will immediately rise up out of the earth, and 
you may easily lake and cut them to pieces, and fat- 
ten your poultry therewith, or feed fish in ponds 
with them. 

By laying ashes or lime about any plant, neither 
snails nor worms will come near it. As the moisture 
weakens it, you must, .more or less, continue to re- 
new the lime crashes. 

776. To destroy Worms in Gravel Walks ^ <^e. 

Pour into the holes a ley, made of wood ashes 
and lime : this will also destroy insects, if trees are 
sprinkled with it. Salt and water will do as well. 

777. Usefidncss of the Wren in destroying Insects, 

As a devourer of pernicious insects, one of the 

most useful birds is the house wren* This little bird 

seems peculiarly fond of the society of man, and it 

must be confeascd that it is often protected by hjs 



WATER* 383 

interested care. It has long been a custom, in many 
parts of the country, to fix a small box at the end of 
a long pole, in gardens, about houses, &;c. as a 
place for it to build in. Jn these boxes they build 
and hatch their young. When the young are hatch- 
ed, the parent birds iced them with a variety of in- 
sects, particularly such as are injurious in gardens. 
An intelligent gentleman was at the trouble to ob- 
serve the number of times a pair of these birds came 
from their box, and returned with insects for their 
young. He found that they did this from forty to 
sixly times in an hour; and, in one particular hour, 
the birds carried food to their young seventy-one 
times. In this business they were engaged the great- 
-er part of the day ; say twelve hours. Taking the 
medium, therefore, of fifty times in an hour, it ap- 
peared that a single pair of these birds took from 
the cabbage, salad, Ijeans, peas, and other vegeta- 
bles in the garden, at least six hundred insects in the 
course of one day. This calculation proceeds upon 
the supposition, that the two birds took only a single 
insect each time. ]But it is highly probable they oft- 
j^n took several at. a time. 



CHAPTER XXXV 
WATER, 



778. To make Artificial Sea Walei , 

Take common sea salt, two pounds; bitter purg- 
ing salt, two ounces ; magnesia earth, half an ounce; 
dissolve all in river water, six gallons. These are 
the exact proportions and contents of sea water, 
from an accurate analyzation. 



S34 irATERc 

779. Another Mtthod of making ISea V/aler, 

Take common salt, half an ounce ; rain, or river 
water pure, a pint ; spirit of sea salt, twenty drops. 
Mix it. 

780. E,asif and expeditious JMethod of dissipating the 
7ioxious Vapours found in Wells ^ t^c. hy Ebenezer 
Robinson^ of Philadelphia, 

(From the *' Transactions of the American Philo- 
sophical Societ}^") 

After various unsuccessful trials, I was led to con- 
sider how I could convey a large quantity of fresh 
air fi'om the top to the bottom of the well, suppos- 
ing that the foul would necessarily give way to the 
pure air. With this view, I procured a pair of smith's 
bellows, fixed in a Avooden frame, so as to work in 
the same manner as at the forge. This apparatus 
being placed at the edge of the well, one end of a 
leathern tube (the nose of a fire engine) was closely 
adapted to the nose of the bellows, and the other end 
was thrown into the well, reaching within one foot 
of the bottom. 

At this time the well was so infected, that a candle 
would not burn at a short distance from the top ; 
but, after blowing with my bellows only half an hour, 
the candle burned bright at the bottom : then, with- 
-out further ditliculty, 1 proceeded in the work, and 
finished my well. 

Wells are often made in a very slight manner, 
owing to the difficulty of working in them, and there 
have been several fatal instances of the danger at- 
tending the workmen ; but by the above method 
there is neitlier diliicuky nor danger in completing 
the work with the utmost solidity. 

It is obvious, that in cleaning vaults, and work- 
ing in. any subterraneous place subject to damps, as 
tlicy are called, the same method must be attended 
V ith the same beneficial effects. 



WINES. 385 



CHAPTER XXXVL 

wmES. 



781. To make British Champagne, 

Take gooseberries before they grow ripe, crush 
them with a mallet in a wooden bowl, ant! to Qvary 
.gallon of fruit put a gaHon of water; let it stand 
two days, stirring it well ; squeeze the mixture well 
with your hands through a hop-sieve; then mea- 
sure your liquor, and to every gallon put three 
pounds and a half of loaf sugar; mix it well in the 
tub, and let it stand one day : put a bottle of the 
best brandy in the cask ; leave the cask open five 
or six weeks, taking off the scum as it rises ; thea 
make it up, and let it stand one year in the barrel 
before bottled. 

N. B. One pint of brandy is put to seven gallons 
of liquor. 

782. To make Koumiss, a valuable Wine of the Tar^ 

tars. 

Take of fresh mare'stnilk, of one day, any quan- 
tity ; add to it a sixth-part water, and pour the mix- 
ture into a wooden vessel ; use then, as a ferment, 
an eighth-part of the sourest cow's milk tJiat can be 
got; but at any future preparation, a small portion 
of old koumiss will betteranswer the purpose of sour- 
ing. Cover the vessel with a thick cloth, and set it 
in a place of moderate warmth ; leave it at rest 
Uventy-four hours ; at the end of which time the 
milk will have become sour, and a thick substance 
will be gathered on its top; then, with a stick, 
made at the lower end in the manner of a churn 
staff, beat it till the thick substance above-mention- 

H H 



386 wiNES. 

ed be blended inlimately with the subjacent fiuiUe 
In this situation leave it again at rest for twenty- 
four hours more ; after which, pour it into a higher 
and narrower vessel, resembling a churn, where the 
agitation must be repeated as. before, till the liquor 
appear to be perfectly homogeneous ; and in this 
state it is called koumiss : of which the taste ought 
to be of a pleasarit mixture of sweet and sour. Agi- 
tation must be employed every time before it is used. 
1 his wine operates as a cooling antisceptic, an use- 
ful stimulant, cordial, and tonic, and may prove a 
valuable article of nourishment; and it has one ex- 
cellence, perhaps not the least, that the materials 
from which it is prepared are xheap, and the mode 
of preparation simple. 

783. Orange Wine, 

Take the expressed juice of eight Semlh or^uge^ ^, 
;and, "having one gallon of water wherein three pounds 
of sugar have been boiled,, boil the water and sugar 
for twenty minutes ; slvim constantly, and when cool- 
ed to a proper heat for fermentation, add the juice, 
and the outer rind of the juice {fruit f) shaved oft". 
Put all into a barrel, stir it frequently for two or 
three days, and then closely bung it for six months 
before it is bottled* 

784. zEoccelleni American Wine. 

(Originally communicated to the public by Joseph 
Cooper, Esq. of New-Jersey,^orth America.) 

" I put a quantity of the comb, from which the 
honey had been drained, into a tub, and added a 
barrel of cyder, immediately from the press; this 
mixture was well stirred, and left for one night. It 
was then strained before a fermentation took place ; 
and honey was added, until the strength of the li- 
quor was sufficient to bear an egg. It was then put 
into a barrel ; and after the fermentation cominenc- 



WINES. 387 

pd, the cask was filled every day, for three or four 
days, that the tilth might work out of the bung-hole. 
Wiicn tlie feraientation moderated, 1 put the bung 
in loosely, lest stopping it tight might cause the cask 
to burst. At the end of five or six weeks, the liquor' 
was drawn off into a tub ; and the whites of eight 
eggs, well beat up, with a pint of clean sand, were 
put into it: I then added a gallon of cyder spirit; 
and nftcr mixing the whole v/ell together, I returned 
it into the cask, which was well cleaned, bunded it 
tight, and placed it in a proper situation for racking 
off, when fine. In the month of April following, I 
drew it off into kegs, for use ; and found it equal, in 
my opinion, to almost any foreign wine : in the 
opinion, of many judges, it was superior. 

" This success has induced me to repeat the ex- 
periment for three years ; an^l I am persuaded, that, 
by using clean honey, instead of the comb as above 
described, such an improvement might be made, as 
would enable the citizens of the United States to 
supply themselves with a truly federal and whole- 
some wine, which would not cost a quarter of a dol- 
lar per gallon, were all the ingredients procured at 
the market price; and would have this peculiar ad- 
vantage over every other wine, hitherto attempted 
in this country, that it contains no foreign mixture,' 
but is made from ingredients produced on our own 
farms." — {Dr. Mease edit, of Dr, Willich'^s DomeS" 
tic Kncyclopedia^ voL 5,) 



^88 WRITING*. 

CHAPTER XXXVir. 
WRITING, 



785, Sec7'et Methods of IVriiing, 

A letter of common business may be interlined, 
by writing with sal-ammoniac dissolved in water, 
or with the juice of a lemon ; these letters will not 
be visible till they are held hy the fire ; but a letter 
so written will, in a short time discover itself from 
the corroding acid and moisture of the liquid. So a 
letter, written with dissolved alum, will not be dis- 
cernible till the paper be dipped in water. 

A letter may be written with the yolk of an egg; 
"but when tht; Ktleii are quite dry, the paper must 
be blackened all over with ink, and the confederate, 
by scraping the paper gently with a knife, will ex- 
pose the letters written with an egg, while the rest 
of the paper continues black. 

786. An artificial Water for zvriting Letters of Ss- 

crecy. 

Take copperas, finely powdered, put a little 
thereof into a new ink-horn, f)our clean water on it ;^ 
and after it has stood a little while write therewith^ 
either on vellum or parchment, and the writing can- 
not be seen any otuer way than by drawing the let- 
ters through a water thus prepared : — Take a pint 
of water, put into it one once of powdered galls, 
temper it together, and strain it through a cloth ; 
})ut the water into a dish that is wide enough, and 
draw your writing through it, and you will read it as 
you do other writings ; and to make the secret con- 
tents less liable to suspicion, you may write qu the 



WRITING. 38^" 

contrary side of the paper or parchment, with black 
writing ink, matters of less consequence. 

787. Another, 

Take flake-white, or any other whitening, and di- 
lute it in water impregnated with gum adragant. If 
you write with this liquor, the writing will not be 
perceivable, unless you hold the paper to the sun or 
the light of a candle. The reason why it is so, is, 
that the rays of light do not pass with the same fa- 
cility through the letters, formed with this liquor, as 
through the other parts of the paper. . 

788. To W7'ite secretly on a Pocket Ha7idkercMef» 

Dissolve alum in pure water, and write upon a 
fine white handkerchief, which, when dry, will not 
be seen at all ; but when you would have the letters 
visible, dip the handkerchief in pure water, and it 
will be of a wet appearance all over, except where 
it was written with the alum water. 

You may also write with alum water upon writ- 
ing paper, which will not be visible till dipped in 
water. 

789. To zorite both blue and red Letters at once zuith 
the same Ink and Pen^ and upon the same Paper, 

Take the quantity of a hazel nut litmus blue to 
three spoonfuls of conduit water, wherein some gum- 
arabic is dissolved, and when it has settled the space 
of an hour, if you write with it, you will have letters 
of a perfect blue 5 and if you dip a hair pencil in 
the juice of lemons, and moisten some part of the 
paper therewith, afterwards letting it dry again, 
and then write upon the place where the juice of 
lemons was laid with the blue ink, the letters will 
suddenly become red, and in all the rest of the pa-^ 
per they will be blue. 

II n% 



390 WRITING. 

790. To zorite different Colours upon ike same Paper 

with the Juice of Violel», Wf^ 

Dip a camel-hair pencil in diluted spirit of vi-*"^ 
triol or any other acid, run it over part of the pa- 
per, and when it is dry write upon it with a pen dip- 
ped in the juice of violets, and the writing will im- 
mediately turn to a fine red. — If you write with pure, 
violet juice, you hav« a violet blue.— By running 
the other part of the paper over with a hair-penril 
dipped in any alkaline salt, as salt of wormwood 
dissolved in water, and writing upon the same, 
when dry, v/ith violet juice, you have a very fine 
green. Writing upon tincture of steel with violet 
jaice, you have a black. If you write with the juice 
of violets, and rub on one part of the writing spirit 
of vitriol, and on the other spirit of hartshorn, or salt 
of wormwood dissolved, you have red and greeno. 
When the writing- is held to the fire it becomes yel- 
low. 

791. To write in the Dark^ as straight as by Day or 

Candle Light* 

Write with a. pencil on an ivory leaf; for if lines 
are drawn on the leaf with a needle, or any sharp 
point, they may be fekby the point of the pencil. 

792. Method of forming Letters of Gold on Paper^ 

and for Ornaments of Writing, 

Pulverize gem-ammoniac, and dissolve it in wa- 
ter, previously impregnated with a litde gum-arab- 
ic and some juice of garlic. The gum ammoniac 
will not dissolve in water, so as to form a transpa- 
rent fluid, but produces a milky appearance: with 
the liquor thus prepared, draw with a pencil or 
write with a pen, on paper or vellum, the intended 
figure or letters for the gilding; suflfer the paper to 
dry, and then, or any time afterwards, breathe on it 
till it be moisteuedj and immediately lay leaves ^gf 



WRITING. 391 

gold, or parts of leaves cut in the most advanta^ 
gcoLis manner, in order to save the gold, over the 
parts drawn or written upon, and press them gently 
to the paper, with a ball of cotton or soft leather: 
when the paper becomes dry, which a short time or 
gende heat will soon effect, brush- off with a soft 
pencil, or rub off by a fine linen rag, the redundant 
gold, which covered the parts between the lines of 
the drawing or writing, and the finest hair strokes of' 
the pencil or pen, as well as the broader, will ap- 
pear perfectly gold. 

7.93. Simph Method of copying Letters^ zaithout the 
Use of a Copying Machine^ 

PCit a little sugar in common writing ink ; write' 
with this on common sized paper as usual; when a 
copy is required, unsiz-ed paper is taken, and light- 
ly moistened with a sponge. . Apply the wet 433 per 
then to the v^'riting, and a flat iron, such as is used 
by laundresses, of a moderate heat, being. lighdy 
passed over the unsized pjiper, the counter-proof 
or copy is immediately produced, . 

794. To make durable Writing on Paper, 

Dissolve gum-arabic in water, and add thereto 
ivory-black, extremely well ground, and write 
therewith. Acids cannot discharge this writing; 
and *f you wish to secure it against the steams of, 
hot water, the writing may be covered withwhite". 
of egg clarified. 

795. To preserve Letters from being, opened. 

Various ways have been contrived to open letters, 
sealed with wafers only, but the following compo- 
sition is perfectly secure : — Take fine powder of 
bean flour ; i-dd thereto white of egg, well whisked 
to a fine liquid ; make a paste from this mixture, of 
which put' a iiitle under the sealing place ; .then, 
.close the iw'c- oapers, and hold the part close to the 
steam arising irora ths spout of si tea-kettle or tea- 



392 WRITING. - 

pot of boiling water, which will harden the cement, 
so that it cannot be opened without tearing. 

796. To take out. Writing, 

When recently written, ink may be completely 
removed by the oxymuriatic acid (concentrated and' 
in solution. The paper is to be washed over repeat- 
edly with the acid ; but it will be necessary after- 
wards to wash it also with lime water, for the pur- 
pose of neutralizing any acid that may be left on the 
paper, and which would considerably weaken it.. 
But if the ink have been long written, it will have 
undergone such a change as to prevent the preced- 
ing process from taking effect. It ought therefore 
to be washed with liver of sulphur (sulphuret of 
ammonia) before the oxymuriatic acid is applied- 
It may be washed with a hair-pencil. 

797»\Mtihod of /recovering the Legibility of decai/ed 

Writings, 

The best method of restoring legibility to decay''; 
ed writings is found upon experiment to be, by 
covering the letters with phlogisticatcd alkali, with 
the addition of a diluted mineral acid ; upon the ap- 
plication of which, the letters will change very 
speedily to a deep blue colour, of great beauty and 
intensity. A solution of prussiate of potash v/ili. 
also cause the letters to appear blue. To prevent 
the spreading of the colour, which, by blotting the 
parchment, detracts greatly from the legibility, the 
alkali should be put on lirst, and the diluted acid 
added uj^on it. The method found to answer best, 
has been to spread the alkali thin with a feather 
over the traces of the letters, and then to touch it, 
gently, as near upon or over the letters as can be 
done, with the dikited acid, by means of a feather 
or a stick cut to a blunt point. Though the alkali 
should occasion no sensible change of colour, yet 



liie moment the acid comes upon it, cvcvy trace of' 
a letter turns at once tea line blue, which soon ac- 
quires its full intensity, and is beyond comparison 
stronger than the colour of the original trace had 
been. If, then, the corner of a bit of blotting pa- 
|-jer be carefully and dexterously applied near the 
letters,, so as to imbibe the superfluous liquor, the 
stainin^rof the parchment may be in a great rneasure 
avoided : for it is this superfluous liquor which, ab- 
sorbin"- part of the colouring matter from the letters, 
becomes a dye to whatever it touches. Care must 
be taken not lo bring the blotting paper in contact 
with the letters, because the colouring matter is. 
soft, whilst wet, and may easily be rubbed off. 
The acid chiefly employed has been the marine ; 
but both the vitriolic and nitrous succeed very well. 
They should be so far diluted as not to be in dan- 
ger of corroding the parchment ; after v^'hich the 
degree of strength does not seem to be a matter of 
much nicety,., 

798. To revive old Writings which are almost defaced* 
Boil gall nuts in wine ; then steep a sponge into the 
liquor, and pass it on the lines of the old writing ; 
by this method the letters, which were almost unde- 
cyphcrable, will appear as fresh as if newly done. 

?99. To gild Letters on Vdlnm or Paper, 

Letters written on vellum or paper, are gilded in 
ihree ways : in the first, a little size is mixed with 
the ink, and the letters are written as usual ; when 
they are dry, a slight degree of stickiness is pro- 
duced by breathing on then^ upon which the gold 
leaf is immediately applied, and by a little pressure 
may be made to 'adhere with sufficient firmness.— In 
the second method, some white lead or chalk is 
ground up with strong size, and the letters are 
made with this by means of a brush ; when the 



394- WRITING. 

iiiixtLire is almost dry, the gold leaf may be laid oils 
and afterwards burnished. The last method is to ' 
mix up some gold powder with size, and make the 
letters of this by means of a brush. 

800. To make Pounce, 

Gum-sandarac powdered and sifted very fine, will 
produce an excellent preventive to keep ink from 
sinking \n the paper after you have had occu&ion to 
scratch out any part of the writing. 

80 1 . Another Method, 

Cuttle fish bone, properly dried, one ounce ;. 
best rosin, one ounce ; and the same quantity ot 
burnt alum, well incorporated together, will make 
very good pounce, equal, if not superior, to any 
bought at the shops» 

S02. Method of obtaining exact Copies of Inscrip'-' 

tions» 

The stone, or other matter, in which the inscrip- 
tion is cut, is to be first well washed and dried ; 
then with printer's balls the surface is laid over 
with printing ink, in the same manner as is laid on 
types ; one or more sheets of paper, according to 
the size of the inscription, previously damped, are 
then laid over it, and the impression taken oft' by 
striking the paper with a clean ball, the hand, or a 
brush. 

Three or four copies should be taken in this man- 
ner, as the fourth is usually the most perfect. As 
the inscription will be reversed on the paper, it may 
be read oif right, on the other side, by holding the 
paper against the light. If the inscription is in re- 
lievo, the letters will be black ; if in 'hollow, the 
I$;.tters will be white and the ground black. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 3^6 



CHAPTER XXXVIII. 

MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS, 

Wiiich were communicated too late to be inserted 
under the preceding Cliaplers. 



•803. To Make excellent Ink, 

Take a pound of the best Aleppo galls, half a 
pound of copperas, a quarter of a pound of gum- 
arabic, and a quarter of a pound of white sugar- 
candy. Bruise the galls, and'beatthe other ingre- 
dients fine-; and infuse them all in three quarts of 
white wine, or rain-water. Let this mixture stand 
hot by the fire three or four days ; and thefl put it 
on a slow fire so as to boil. Stir it frequently, and 
let it stand five or six hours, till one quarter of it 
be evaporated. When cold, strain it through a 
clean coarse piece pf iin€n *, bottle, and keep it for 
use. 

Thecommunicator of this good old rec^eipt is con- 
vinced that much pains have been taken to asccr- 
.tain the due proportions of the galls and copperas : 
for he has found that, on diminishing or increasing 
their relative quantities as above, the ink has al- 
wways been pale ; but this defect will sometimes hap- 
pen, if the materials be not of the best kind. The 
quality of the paper written on v/ill also make a dif- 
ference in the colour of the ink. 

The grand secret in preparing this ink, which 
will never change its colour,'if properly attended to, 
though kept never so long, consists in the keeping 
it free from that mouldiness, which, in hot weather 
■particularly, is apt to form upon the surface. The 
best way is, to put it into a large glass bottle, with 
.^ ground stopper, and to shake it frequently^ If, 



■'W 



from sudden heat of the weather, or neglect in 
shaking, the mnuldincss should appear, either 
take it off, if in a very small quantity and easily re- 
moved, or otherwise let it accumulate till a thick 
crust be formed ; and then, with a piece of wood, 
sor wire crooked at the end, take it off all at once. 
It is very usual to put ink into an earthen or stone 
jar, which is suspended to some door that is fre- 
quently opened, in order that the ink may be sha- 
ken. But few doors are either regularly or suffi- 
ciently agitated for the purpose of preventing the 
formation of the destructive vegetable substance or 
mouldiness ; and this, being once accumulated, and 
of course not seen in the jar, is shaken together 
with the ink, and the whole is spoiled. You might 
just as well put a quantity of rotten mushrooms into 
a bottle of ink, and expect that it should retain its 
virtue. It has been found that the bruised or pow- . 
dered materials of this receipt for making ink, if| 
infused in cold water and well strained, will answer 
the purpose, where it is difficult or inconvenient to i 
heat them as before directed. If the ink be rcqujr- f 
ed to be more black and glossy 'than usual, increase 
v/ith discretion the quantities of gum and sugarean- 
dy : but too much of them will make the ink sticky ; 
and which should not be used, where the writing is 
niade in any foldir.g-book. 

804. ' Quicksilver, 

Tallow will take up quicksilver. Vinegar kills it. ; 

805. To revive a dull Fire, 

Powdered nitre, strewed on the fire, i« the bes-t 
bellows that can be used. 

806. Small Pox, 

In Dr. Lort's copy of " Mead de Variolis,'^^ was 
-wriiten, what -was termed "A curious and infal* 



MISCELLANEOUS. 397 

llble preventive against ever catching the Small 
Pox," as follows : — 

Two spoonfuls of red ochre, such as is used for 
marking; Sheep, infused in half a pint of ale, and 
taken seven mornings successively, fasting. 

'807. Against the Blatta^ or Cock- Roaches, 

Set a glazed baking-dish, filled with small beer, 
Fwcetened with coarse brown sugar, in the place in^ 
fested ; and place a-board against it, as a bridge or 
iadder for the blatta to ascend. This is the best of 
all the remedies. 

808. Corns and 'Warts, 

Apply soft brown paper moistened with spiulo. 
\ few dressings will remove them. 

800. To destroy Snails and Slugs, 

A few turnips, sliced and laid on the borders of 
the garden they infest, will attract them in the even- 
ing. 

810. To prevent Paper from sinkiiig. 

If the paper used in superior editions of books 
and which sinks so as to prevent its being written 
on, be dipped in alum-water, it may be written on. 
This practice was adopted by IViresc. (See his Life^ 

p. loy.) 

811. To harden Plaster of Paris Casts, 

Wash them well with a spunge dipped in alum- 
water. 

^812. To change Hair to a deep Brown, 

A solution of the silver caustic in water is the 
foundation of all the nostrums for this purpose. It 
must be well diluted before used. — Dr, Jlloycs^^ 
Xtecturcs, 



398 MISCELLANEOUS* 

813. Pearl White. 

Bismuth dissolved in aqua fortis is pearl white, 
This, though at first it whitens, afterwards blackens 
the skin, as all preparations from lead do ; and 
therefore none of them are safely to be used. — Dr. 
Moyse'^s Lectures. 

814. To detect Copper in Liquids, 

Spirit of hartshorn mixed with them, turns them 

blue. Therefore tea is not dried on copper, as an 

infusion qf it is not turned blue by this mixture. — 

r Cyder being passed through brass, pots is detected 

by this experiment. — Ibid, 

815. To take off a Gold Ring sticking tight on & 

Finger, 

Touch it with mercury, and it becomes so brit- 
tle that a slight blow with a hammer will break it. 

816. To detect, the Miacture of Arsenic, 

A solution of blue vitriol dropped into any liquid 
in which arsenic has been put will turn it green. 

817. To try the purity of Spirits, 

See if the liquor will burn away without leaving 
any moisture behind. As spirit is much lighter than 
water, place a hollow ivory ball in it ; the deeper 
the ball sinks, the lighter the liquor, and> conse- 
quently more spirituous. 

818. To raise a Salad quickly. 

Steep lettuce-seed, mustard, cresses, &;c. in aqua- 
vits. Mix a litde pigeon's dung with some mould, 
and powdered slacked lime. In forty-eight hours 
the salad will be produced. 

i|-^l 9. To destroy Grubs, 

P^' Cut a turf, and lay it with the grass downwards 
' jnear the plant destroyed by the grub, and it will at- 
tract them. 



I 



MISCELLANEOUS. 3^3 

•5 JO. Against Burns or Scalds, 

PIuiigG the part sc?l led into cold water as soon 
\s possible. Wet it with linen steeped in rectified 
-pirit of common brandy. Poultices and oily appli- 
«:ation3 arc to be avoided. 

821. A Corn Plalster, 

One ounce of naval pitch, half an ounce of gal- 
banum, dissolved in vinegar, one scruple of ammo- 
ilia, and one drachm and a half of diachylon, mixed 
togetheV. — From La. Forest' ' L''Art de soigner les 
Pieds.' 

022. To keep off Flies, 

Place camphor on or near what you wish to pro- 
tect from them. 

'. 23, For preserving the J^ails, 

Oneou(]ceof oil of bitter Almonds; one draclirn 
of oil of tartar per deliquium ; one ounce of prc- 
jrored crabs-eyes. Mix up with essence of lemon to 
hceut it. 

La Forest recommends rubbing the naiU with 
iOmon as a detergent. 

8:34. For taking azcay suptrjluous Hair. 

Quicksilver, two ounces: yellow orpiment, onr- 
ciuncc ; starch, one ounce; litharge, one ounce-, 
J ift them through silk, and dihjte thorn uiih snap 
und water til! they fjecomc a pa:^te. Anoint the 
•)art, and let it dry for fivo minutes ; then scratcli 
.;fr the hair with the nail. Wash immediately in 
wai'm water. — Fror-^ T>:' Forest '' L'Art di solgncr 
its Pieds, 

&:25, To make Phosphoras. V-f' 

Two third parts of quicklime (i. e. calcined oys*- 
ter-shclls), and one third of flour of brimstone, put 



400 MISCELLANEOUS. 

into a crucible for an hour, and exposed to the aif 
for an hour, become phosphorus. 

826. To disehargc Grease from Leather, 

The white of an egg applied to the spot, and dyi- 
ed in the sun ; or, to two table-spooniuls of spirit 
of turpentine, add half an ounce of mealy potatoes 
with some of the best Durliam mustard. Apply this- 
mixture. to the spot, and rub it off when dry. A lit- 
tle vinegar a<Idcd, revives, and is perhaps more ef- 
ficacious. 

827. To prevent Wounds from morlifyiiig. 

Sprinkle sugar on them. The Turks wash fresh 
wounds with wine, and sprinkle sugar on them. 
Obstinate ulcers may be cured with sugar dissolved 
ii\ a strong decoction of walnut leaves. 

028- To discharge Grease from Paper, 

Burn bones of sheep; with the powder rub both 
sides of the spot; and, putting white pieces of pa- 
per on each side, lay the whole in a press. Repeat, 
this pi;ocess till the spot disappears. 

829. Subsiitidefur Flax, 

Steep broom-tvjigs^ or the former year's branches, 
(perferring the most vigorous shoots) for two or 
three weeks, more or less, according to the heat of 
f he season, in stagnant water; or boil them for an 
hour in water. This done, the flax separates freely 
from the twigs; and where there is not machinery, 
for the purpose, it may easily be stripped' off by 
children or others, when not quite dry, in the same 
manner as hemp is pulled from the stalks. When 
stripped fi'om the twigs, the flax requires only to bo 
well washed in cold water, then wrung and shaken 
well, and hung out to dry, previously to its being 
sent off to the paper-manufacturer, Sic, — Professor 
Davy has bleached some of it for the Rev,- Jgtmes 



MISCELLANEOUS. 401 

I'Lill (lo whom we owe this valuable discovery), 
who has also seen iL spun. The same gentleman al- 
so observes, that the fibres of all kinds of mallow, 
estjecially those of the maha s^lvestris, are particu- 
larly beautiful ; they are fmer than camel's hair, to 
which they bear some resemblance, and there is no 
difficulty in procuring them. 

What adds to the value of this discovery is, that 
the broom-twigs, or wood, after being clear of the 
flax, and steeped for some time in boiling-water, 
become tough and beautifully white, and are worth, 
at a medium, from twelve to eighteen pence per 
pound, for mdik'ing carpet-brooms, &c. - 

330.' Economical Uo-e of Js\itmegs, 

If a person begin to grate a nutmeg at the aialii 
end, it will prove hollow throughout; whereas the 
same nutmeg grated from the other end, would have 
proved sound and solid to the last. This circum- 
sta-nce may thus be accounted for :^ — The centre of 
V nutmeg consists of a number of fibres issuing from 
the stalk, and its continuation through the centre oi 
ttie fruit, the other ends of which fibres, though 
closely surrounded and pressed by the fruit, do not 
adhere to it. When the stalk is grated away, those 
tibres having lost their hold, gradually drop out, 
and the nutmeg appears hollow : as more of the stalk 
is grated away, others dropout in succession, and 
the hollow continues through the whole nut. By 
beginning at the contrary end, the fibres above- 
mentioned are grated off at their core-end, with the 
surrounded fruit, and do not drop out and cause a 

hoi To • 

j.il. T6 ascertain, the Qaallly of Nat megs. 

Oil of nutmegs being of great value, it is often 
extracted from the nuts which are exposed to sale, 
and which are thereby rendered of very little value. 
To ascortain the quality of nutmegs, force a pin ia» 

ii2 



102 MISCELLANEOUS. 

to them \ and if good, however dry they riiay ap- 
pear, the oil will be seen oozing out all round the 
pin, from the compression occasioned in the sur- 
rounding parts. 

S32. To increase the Durability of Tiles, 

Recent experiments have shewn that tiles are 
greatly improved, and rendered impervious to zoater 
and frosty by being rubbed over with tar before 
they are laid on the roof. 

833. To prevent Brass Vessels from coniractlng 
Verdigris^ after being used* 

Instead of wiping them dry, it has been found, 
that by constantly immersing them in water, they 
are kept perfectly innoxiou?, and will remain for 
years, fully as clean and nearly as bright as when 
they first came out of the hands of the workmen. 

534. Improved Mode of preserving Flowers. 

Take three pounds of roses, and rub them for 
two or three minutes with one pound of common salt. 
The flowers, being bruised by the friction of the salt, 
yield their juice, so that a paste is immediately form- 
ed, vi'hich may be put in an earthen jar, or in a bar- 
rel, till filled, by-i,;epealing the same process. Then 
close it, and keep it in a cool place till wanted. 
When required to be distilled, this aromatic paste 
is to be put into the body of the still, with twice its 
freight of water. Any season of the year will do for 
Ihis operation. Hence it arises, that all plants being 
vrell salted, need only to be distilled when wanted, 
and may thus be used while all their medical virtues 
,^T^ in perfection. 

535. Vanherman'^s Incomparable and durable White 
Paint for hiside Work only, zuhich will dry and 
cease to smell within six hours. 

Add to a gallon of spirit of tuFpentine, two pounds 



MISCELLANEOUS. 405- 

offratikincciise. Lot it simmer over a clecr fire, till 
dissolved; then strain it, and bottle it for use. To 
a gallon of bleached linseed oil, add a quart of this 
mixture, shake them well together, and bottle this 
also. Let atiy quantity of white lead be ground ve- 
ry fine with spirit of turpentine; then add to it a 
sufficient portion of the la.-U mixture, till it be found 
fit for laying on. ]f, in working, it should grow thick, 
it must be thinned with spirit of turpentine. This is 
what painters call a Hat or dead while, to distinguish 
it from common white paint, being only suitable 
for the very best internal work, both on account of 
its superioi' delicacy and expense. 

836. Useful Knife Board, 

A common knife-board, covered with thick buff- 
leather, on which are put emery, one part, crocus 
mariisy three parts in very fine powder, mixed into 
a thick paste with a little lard or sweet oil, and 
spread on the leather ab6ut the thickiicss of a shil- 
ling, gives a far superior edge andpolish to knives ; 
and v/iW not wear the knifo nearly so much as the 
common method of using brick-dust on board. 

0^37. Chapped or Sore Lips 

Miay be healed by the frequent application of 
honey-water, and protecting them from the influence • 
of cold air. 

838. J^'cw Mode of marking Sheep, without Injury to 

the Wcol. 

Mark, on either side of the nose of the sheep, the 
initial of the wvner's name, and on the opposite 
side any number by which he may choose to desig- 
nate the particular sheep, by means of a small iron 
letter or figure, about an inch long; which, bein^ 
dipped in common oil colours, mixed with turpen- 
tine to dry tbem move readrlyj is placed on the- part 



404 MISCELLANEOUS. 

described, and will continue until the next shearing 
season. The process is easy, and will give the ani- 
mal no pain ; the marks cannot be readily oblitc* 
rated, which is ?iot the case with tattooing or cau- 
terizing. 

839. To promote the Growth of Hair, -. 

Mix equal parts of olive oil and spirits of rose- 
mary, and add a few drops of oil of nutmeg. -If the: 
hair be rubbed every nigiit with a liille of tins lini- 
ment^ and the proportion .be^ very graduaUy aug=. 
mented, it will answer every purpose of increasing, 
the gro^vth of hair, much more eiiectually than caij^ 
be attained by any of the boastiiig empii'ical j)repa- 
rations which are imposed on the credulous pur- 
chaser, 

840.' To fatten Turkics as ihci/do in Korfolk. 

The-quality and size of the Norfolk turkies ate- 
superior to those of*any other part of tiie kingdom^ 
Thev are iQi\ almost entirely with buck-wheat, 
w^hich^ pei'haps, may account for their excellence,: 
and are bred by almost every Httle farmer in the. 
county. When young, they demand pci'petual atten- 
tion, and must be (ed with alum, curds, and chop- 
ped onions ; arid the expense attending their ma- 
nagement and food ran be compe[)sated only where 
bj'oods are tolerably successful, and the prices high. 
When young, they should have a largj^ propoi'liori. 
of common pepper cress mixed in their food, or be 
allowed to pick in a bed of it. 
34 h To judge of the Weather,' 

If a person intends to ride any. where in winter,' 
and suspects it. will rain, he may know by the fol- 
lowing observation eight hours before the rain comes 
on ; and so. resolve to take a great co'at uith hiai, or 
otherwise e::cape it. viz. L' « hirj observe the top. 
of the mercury in the tube of a baioract-cr, and if 



MISCELLANEOUS. , '\0d 

,.i in be about to come, it will be indctited or con- 
cave, o/Zic^'if/^e, convex or protuberant. But as the 
barometer is sometimes deceitrul, the })oint from 
which the wind blows, and the appearance of the 
da}^ is more certain. 

342. Substitute for Grease^ for Coach Whccls^^c, 

Mix one pound of hog's Jard with half a pound of 
black lead ; stir them well together, whilst mclting;^ 
over a slow fire. If the axles aj:d bushes of the 
wheels be true, a carriage may safely be run one 
hundred, or one hundred and fifty miles, with once 
using the above composition. 

943. Excellent Varnish for Umbrellas, cj*c. 

Great coats, and other articles much exposed to 
the weather, are rendered both sun and rain proof, 
by the following excellent varnish : Boil well toge- 
ther two pounds of turpentine, one pound of litharge . 
in powder, and two or three pownds of linseed oil. 
When the article is brushed over with this varnish, 
it must be dried in the sun : after which, the great- - 
est heat will notaHectit. 



iMa)ii^ 



"Page. 



223 



343 
171 



^li CCJ DEjY r6',to prevent, 
by leaving pokers in the 
fire, 

Acid, Kiirova^ process for 
preparing, for extracting 
stains from tanned lea- 
ther, 

^ A corn Coffee^ to make 

jigric allure, receipts rela- 
tive lo 1, et seq. 

Ague^ cure for (he ^93 

^ir^ to purify bad and infec- 
tious 155 

, in gardcms, method of 

puri/ying ^50 

Alabaster, lo clean 17.3 

Alder, waste land advan- i 
tageousljr planted with 2 

Ale, pleasant and cheap 97 

! , the u&.es of ground ivy 

in ib. 

Aloes, the juice of, may be 
applied to beneficial pur- 
poses, 70 

^lum, to detect in bread 164 

Anderson, Dr. his method 
of keeping milk and but- 
ter, 15] 

Angling, the sport of, im- 
J) roved by attention to 
the dress, 68 

— \ , to prevent taking 

cold while 67 

,j4mmal Food, method of 
' preserving sweet 155, 6 & 1 



Page. 

Antidotes, to noxious sub- 
stances and animals, 287 

Animals, to prevent death 
from the bite of venom- 
ous 288 

Ants, methods of destroy- 
ing 6J, 372, 376 

Apples, method of preserv- 
ing 196, 199 

Apple Trees, remedy for the 
disease in 261 

, to destroy in- 
serts prejudicial to 377 
Arms, to keep from rust 247 

iromalic Herbs, to pre- 
serve ^ 200 

• Vinegar, to pre- 
pare 281,332 

Arts, useful 70, e/ seq. 

A rsenic, \o detect 398 

Asparagus, to reader more 
productive 265 

Asses Millc^ artificial to 
. make 2H 



C 



Balsamic Vinegar, to make 20 i 
Bark, method of r^akjng n^w 

grow on old tree?, 3^r7 
, to make an improved 

tincture of 304 
Barley, fertilising steep for 53 
Barm, to make 9P 
, substitute for . it, 



[08 



lNi>iL,Xe 



Barn-Floors, method 
making durable 



earthen 



Page. 
of 
41 

40 



JBeasls^ method of preserv- 
ing ■ 148 
'!.Sed-Clolhes, hints relative 

to 145 

^Beds, hints on warming 158 

, Daw;?, to detect ib. 

. Meef^ to preserve good d,ur- 
ins; a voyage to the West 
Indies, 156 

, Tea, to make 158 

■BGcr, <o prevent growing; 
^at, 

= , Gm^er, to make 

, Spruce, 160 

— ~, Table, to make excel- 
knt ib. 

, torecoversour 100 

. ^ pricked or 

stale, to restore ib. 

, substitute for 160 

Bee-Hives, to make vine- 
gar with the refuse of 187 
Bees, improved . manage- 
ment of V58 & 9 

' , metbod of increasing 

the quantity of honey, ib. 

5 to remove ib. 

, method of preserving 159 

— , Wax., to bleach 94 

' , or. Wasps, cure ihe 

stins: of 300 & 301 



Page. 
Bit lev, an excellent, for the 

stomach, .205 

Blacking, receipts formak- 

in? ' 134 & 5 



-, Balls, 
-, Cakes, 



lb. 
ib. 
357 



Black Beetles, to destroy 

, Paint, to make a 

cheap 315 

Bleaching, 90, et seq. 

Bleeding, a nev7 styptic to 
stop 302 

-, of the nose to 

303 
173 

129 

296 

314 

77 



stop 
100 Block-Tin, to clean 
^l\Blood Cement, for repairing 



Bte'les, to destroy 

Beets, to preserve during 

winter, 
Birch-Tree TVint, to make 
Birds, Sir Asliton Lever's 

method of preserving 

, C-anar I/, to breed 

, Catching 

— — , to keep when just 



shot, 
Bird. Lime, 

best 
Biscuit^ <o prcs 

putrefaction 



to make the 
from 



370 

59i 
203 

148 

110 

87 

149 

87 

164 



cop{)er boilers, Sic. 
Blue Bottle, a plant, the 

usefulness of it described. 
Blue Colour, to make from 

verdigris 
Bones, method of softening 
, to make a liquid for 

staining 
Books or Paper, method to 

marble 
, to extract grease 



fro 17', 
— , method of cleaning 



to preserve from 
«ioths 

Blossoming Trees, tb pre- 
vent being damaged by 
early spring frosts 

Boots and Shoes, easy me- 
thod of cleaning " 

, danger of 

putling spirits in, when 



233 

93 

92 
id. 

146 



25J 



ISS 



the kef are wet, 



14' 



to pre- 
vent snow or rain water 
penetrating 

, to clean the tops of 

Tops, chemical liquid 



for 

Bottles, to make air-tight 
, to make illuminat- 
ed or phosphori'* 



138 
137 

ib. 
136 



16 



mDEX. 



Pas:t 
^oiilTSs^ to clean tliut glass 174 
Sox Edgings, to cut 252 

Brandtj^ method of giving 
malt ppiritthe flavour ot' 
good 15 J 

Brass Vessels, to prevent 

contracting verdigris 402 
, composition Tor gild- 



74 

, ferment for making 166 

, uinuc jiuiu water 



m 
■Br€ad_ 

made from 
gladiole 

— , Polafoe^ to make 
— , Sea, to preserve from 
the weevil 
— , to discover if adtiite- 



165 

ib. 

164 
ib. 



rated with alum 
Breath, usefulness of char- 
coal for sweetening 156 
iirewing, and management 
of malt liquors 94 

, cheap method of 96 

, substitutes for yeast 

for 98 100161166 

Bronze, for plaster figures 70 
Bruise in the eye, remedy 



for a 

Bruises, porter-plaster good 
for 

Bitck'-Wlieat, utility of sow- 
ing 

Buckles^ mourning, to blue 

, Gilt, to clean 

Bugs, remedy for destroy- 
ing ^\3 

Building, 

Burns, cures for 294 

Butter, bad tub, to cure 

, improved method of 

making 

, improved method o? 

salting 

, to keep 

, to make 



287 
295 

56 

71 
139 

216 
100 

167 

150 

167 
151 



Page. 
Butter, Salt, to make fresh 168 
— — , Irisli Salt, method of 
taking the ranknesg olf 167 



C 



Cakes, fumigating, to make 22 1 
Calves, management of 118 
, excellent method of 



rearing 

, successful experi- 
ment of rearing without 
milk 

, to make hay tea 



for 



to prevent sickness 



Canine Madness, method 
of discovering 

Candles, economy in 

Canary Birds, to breed 

Canker in Trees, method of 
curing the 

Capsicums, to raise 

Carnations, proper meth- 
od of la_ying 

Carriages, to avoid (he ac- 
cidents occurring to open 

Carrots, preparation for 

to preserve during 



119 

118 

119 

120 

242 
220 
110 

262 
2Gt; 

253 

280 
57 



excellent, 
from the milk of cows fed 
upon turnips 
— , to lake the taste of 



150 



the winter, 

, utility of, for horses, 120 

Carpels^ Tui'key, method of 
cleaning, 17.'J 

Carter!-, advice relative to 46 

Cashew J^'vts, to maJce a 
%vholesonie food of 220 

Casts, composition to take 
o/r 71 

Calcrpillars, method of de- 
straying 62 63 

Cattle^ management of, &c. IM 

— , food for, ib. 

the everlasting pea, 



the turnips olF 



168| disease 



a valuable crop for, 
, to preserve from 



to. 



122 



K K 



^1-^ 



INDEX* 



Past 



Cattle^ virtues of hay-tea 

for 
, Scotch Kale J an 

excellent food for 
diseases of 



Cauliflower^ economical 

way of cutting, 
'Cautions to persons visiting 

sick rooms, 
Cayenne Pepper^ to make 
X^elandine^ cures tetters and 

ring-worms, 
^Cement^ an excellent, for 

wood, 

. for broken chifia, 

for iron flues, 



115 

114 

122 

223 

278 
266 

225 

133 
131 

128 



' , preparation of com- 
mon, for joining alabas- 
ter, &:c. 

Cement^ to resist fire or wa- 
ter, 

= , a strong 

, Japanese, 

.' , Turkey, for join- 
ing metals, glass, kc. 

• , blood, for repair- 
ing copper-boilers, 

— — — , excellent, (or mor- 
tar) made on the Cots- 
wold Hills, 

: . to restore cast-iron 



furnaces and pan-s, 
, to resist the action 



Chickens^ to fatten, expe- 
ditiously 

Chickiveed^ a substitute for 
spring spinage 

Children, to prevent from 
eating food too quickly, 

, danger of their eat- 
ing gilt ginger bread, 

to facilitate in cutting 



Pa^c 



prevent 
to des- 



m 



of fire and water, 

, to stop cracks 

glass vessels, 

Oiampagne^ to make Bri- 
tish, 

Charcoal, to prevent the 
baneful efi'ects of burn^ 
ing, 2881 

, useful properties of 130 



127 

129 
127 
130 

131 

129 

124 
129 
ib'. 
133 

385 



their teeth, 

Chilblains, to 
breaking 

Children's Ileads^ 
troy vermin in 

Chimnies, method of extin- 
guishmg fires in 

, to cure smoky 

, to sweep without em- 
ploying children, 

, to improve the fire- 



places of 
China, cements for mend- 
ing 

Ink, to make 



Chocolate, to make, from 

cocoa-nuts 
Cholic, in horses, receipt 

for 
Churches, to preserve from 

dilapidation 
, prejudicial to live by 



182 

168 

ib. 

176 

290 

296 

379 

243 
105 

70 

105 

331 
310 

169 

242 
109 
277 



the yards of 

Cliver, good for the scur- 
vy 219 298 

Clothes, hint respecting, 
catching fire 142 143 

— , to make portable 
balls, to remove spots 



Cherry-Tree Gum, valua- 
ble properties of 
Cheese, to colour 
, to make Stilton 



tjChesnuts, Horse^ to extract 
;starch from 



219 
179 
178 

86 



from 



340 



to make water-proof 141 
-, to preserve from 

146 

142 

344- 



moths 

, to prevent the danger 

of the flames when on fire 
to prevent danger 



from wet 
Cloths, a water to take the 
spots out of 



iJfDEX. 



41V 



Clover, manure for 

Qoach - /F/iec/s,subsiitute for 

grease for 
Coai-Minesy to repair roads 

near 
Co^'ee, remarks on 

— ^ , virtues of' 

-, grape-seeds, a sub- 



Pa ec 
47 



fititvite for- 
, its effects 



on the 
constitution 

the seeds of fioweri 



de luce, a substitute for 
■ — -— , to improve 

) to make, from a- 



corns 
— — , valuable substitutes 

for 
, Turkish mode of 



405 

84 

160 
170 

171 

l(i9 

171 

ib, 

ib. 
ib. 
170 



preparing 
Coins, to take impressions- 

or casts of 71 

Cold, to prevent taking, 

while angling 67 

, lute to prepare 123 

, mixture for a 301 

Colours^ management of 

313, et seq. 
Compost, for dunghills 47 

Contagion, to prevent 278, 2oO 
Copal-Varnish, prepara- 
tions of 359 
Copying a Print, method of 322 
Copper^ in liquids to detect 398 
— — », Vessels, necessary 

hints to those who use 
Coral- Brc.7whes, (artificial) 

to mak3 ' 
Corn, discovery relative to 

the preservation of 
— *- — <-, to keep crov/s from 
■■ ■ , to keep insects 

from, during long voy- 
ages 
•, to preserve in sacks 



Page 

Cork-Floats, method of , 
making 67 

Corns, to prevent the 
growth of 296 

and Warts, to re- 
move 296, 397 

Cottons^ method of clean- 
ing 14V 

, to render less com- 
bustible 244 

!>-, to dye a buff co- 
lour 235 

Cot'rt Plaster, to make 296 

Coughs, receipt for 302 

Cows, parsnips productive 
of milk in 117 

, rules for milking 150 

— ., to prevent from ■ 



224 

109 

57 
56 



Corks, improvements in, for 
preserving wine 



164 
58 

162 



contracting bad habits, 
while milking 117 

—. — : — , best raethoiJ of feed- 
ing and managing ib, 

, great increase of 

milk, from sainfoin 116 

, proper food for 117 

-, additional produce 

of milk, how to gain ib, 

Crampy certain cure for the 297 
Cream, substitute for S24 

, to preserve in long 

voyages 213 

Crickets, to destroy 371 

, to drive away ib. 



7 *f 

Crimson, to stain paper or 

parchment 325 

Crops, culture and man- 
agement of 51 
Crows, to keep from corn 55 
Crusty to prevent the for- 
mation of in kettles 169 
Cucumbers, new method of 

raising 267 

CMrio5i7ie5, rules for collect- 
ing on sea voyages 149 
Currier'' s-0 it, substitute for 83 
Currant-Wine, to make 203 
Cushions, hints relating to 145 



112 



KNDEX. 



Page 
C'Uilery^ (o prevent polish- 
ed, taking rust; 76 
Cijder.^ to preserve in bottles 202 



D 



Dairi/, proper temperature 

for 

Damp J3ed, to detect 

^, IVallsy method of 

curing 

.Deafness^ remedies for 

.D&canlers, to clean 

■^ — -: — , stopples of, to re- 
move 

Dentition^ to Aicilitate 

Design^ method of copj- 
inij a 

Dilajjidaiions^ to prevent in 
churches 

/:?wease5ot cattle and sheep 

Dishes^ improper to water 
plants iu 

D ink- Covers, to clean 

Disiillmg^ simple water?, 
expeditious method of 

Dogs, to relieve the distem- 
per ill 

. J fo know Avhether 

mad or not 

" ■ " ■ • — , to prevent the mis- 
chief arising from the bite 
of a mad 

Domestic Economy., 

Drains, method of prevent- 
ing the disagreeable smell 
arising from house 

Doivn of geese, properties 
of, how ascertained 

, to improve 

Drowned Persons, method 



149 

158 

103 
296 
174 

162 

290 

228 

109 

122 

256 
173 

153 

242 
ib. 



288 
1551 



of recovering 



to ren- 
der assistance to those in 
danger of being 
DrciiQing-Desk^ to make a 



Drawings, to copy, wHh 
fixed materials 

, tracing paper for 

, to transfer any 



228. 
228 



impression with vermil- 
ion 

, method of taking 

off lb. 

, method of set- 



ting pencil 

, to preserve pen- 
cil or chalk 

, wash for pre- 
serving 

— , to trace against 

the lisfbt 



, transparent pa- 
per for 227, 

Drink, for the summer, to 
make a pleasant 

Dry-Gilding, method, of 

Drying-Oil, to prepare 

Dry- Rot, cure for 

, the cause and pre- 



108 

184| 
ib. 

233 



vention of 

Dacks^ gardens cleared of 
vennin by 

, method of fatten- 
ing 

Dunghi'ls, compost for 

Durability of tiles, to in- 
crease 

Dyeing 

, liquid for stain- 
ing bone or wood of dif- 
ferent colours 

■, art of dyeing 



leather gloves 
. , to stain wood 



black 



-, to slain wood red 
■>, nankeen, to 



make 
Dyeing, to 6'jq cotton a 
bufi" colour 

, substitute for galls 



2C 

231 in dyeing black 



229^ 
230- 
229- 
ib. 
230 
228- 
229 

202 

74- 
313. 
350 

ib. 

375 

183 

47 

103 

233 

ih. 

234- 

ib. 
ib. 

235 

lb. 



INDEX. 



4IS 



Page. 
Dyeings yellow or green, 

method of 236 
, to stain horn n imi- 



tation of tortoise-shell, 
-, substitute lor verdi- 



gris, in dyeing black, 

E' 

Ear, to attract car-wigs out 

of the 
" ■■■■ ■ , to cure a pain in the 
Earth- Worms., to destroy 
Earwigs, to destroy 
— , to kill such as may 

have crept into the car, 
-, to preserve flowers 



ib. 



>37 



Page. 
Essence of flowers to ex- 
tract 326 
of soap,, for shav- 
ing, 332 
Evergreen Hedges, to train 44 
Experiment with manures, 48 
Ei/e, rules for preserving the 

sight of 283, ct seq. 

~ — , to cure a bruise in 
tlie 287 



from 
Earthenware, a new varnish 

for 
' ■ — , cement to join 

broken 

-, 7?flm^<jar5,method 



ib. 



29o 
ib. 

374 
ib. 

295 

257 

363 

131 

40 

39 
217 
218 
220 
329 
25^. 

ib 



of making 
Economy, in thatching^ 

in fuel, 

in tinder, 

in candles, 

Eau de Luce, to make 
Edgings, to make 

, Box, to cut 

Eggs, to preserve, for a 

length of time 173,211,212 
Elder, a preservative for 

plants against insects and 

flies, • 

JVine, to make 

Embankments, to prevent 

mischief to sea 
Engravings, to clean 
Essences and Essential Oils^ 

to make withdut the help 

of fire or distillation, 326, 327 
Essential Salt of Lemons, to 

make 326 

Essence of malt, to extract 100| 



61 
204 

39 
322 



Farmers, useful hints to 
Farm-Ojjlices, 
Fallow-Grounds J to employ 



39 

lb. 

37 



to advantage 
Feathers, method of clear- 
ing, from their animal oil 72 
Feet, to prevent corns grow- 
ing on 296 
Fepxe>, making and man- 
agement of 43, et se.q. 
Ferment, for making bread, 166 
F iltraiio a o( w'^iiar 194, 195 
Fire, hints respecting wo- 
men's and children's 
clothes catching 14^ 
method to escape 

244 



from 

— , to extricate horses 
from 243 

-^, to prevent hay -stacks 
taking 52 

— -, to stop on ship-board 246 

— , to preserve wood 
from, and from decay, 106 

— J to pi c'vent accident.", 
by leaving pokers in the 223 

— -, to render water effi- 
cacious in extinguishing 245 

— , dull, to revive 396 

— , to prevent wood, lin- 
en, &c. catching 244- 
to extinguish upeed 



ily 



24; 



K k2 



414 



INDEX* 



Page, 
Fire Atms^ the necessity of 
precautioQ in loading 248 

, Boltle, to make the 239 

■ , method of extioguish- 

iag, in chimnies 243 

■ 5 Luie^ to prepare 128 

, Places^ to improve 

chimney *' 105 

, Works, improvements 

in making 250 

Fish^ to cure tainted 157 

' — — , to intoxicate 69 

~ , to preserve in the Por- 
tuguese manner, 155 
.Fw^mg-, rules for 68 
■ Lines^io prevent the 



rotting of 
, easy method 

of dyeing, 

Rods^ to preserve 

5 to make cork floats 



67 



for 



for 



-, to make quiU floats 



ih. 
65 

67 

66 



Flax, a substitute for 75^ 400 
F ly-Fishing, ru]es for . 68 

Blown M.eal^ to purify 157 

FUaSj remedy agamst 
Flies, to destroy 380, 399 

Flini-Glass Bottles, to clean 174 
Floors, method of making 

durable barn 40^ 41 

Floats: See Fishing. 
Floor-Cloths, to clean 173 

Flour, to discover if adul- 
terated 163, 164 

, method of making, 

vi'ilfeout grain, 166 
Flowers, when to plant an- 
nual and perennial 256 
, to remove, in sum- 
mer, 257 



slugs 
of 



to preserve from 
-, to preserve the seed 
method of preserv- 



ib. 
258 



Page 
in g and extracting essen- 
ces from 326-' 
, to grow during win- 
ter, . 257 
Flues, cement for iron 128 
Fly Water, to make 220 
Fly in Turnips, to prevent 

the . 63, 64 

Food, Animal, method of 
preserving sweet 155, 156, 157 

, most proper for milch 

117 

168 
280 

155 



cows. 



, to prevent children 

eating too quickly 
Foul Rooms, to fumigate 
■■ , to purify the 



air of 

Foreign Seeds, method of 
facilitating the growth of 252 

Fool, method to^ recover a 
violent sprain in the 

Forest'TreeSj to promote 
the growth of 

Frost-bitten vegetables, &c. 
to recover 

Freezing, to prevent water- 
pipes in winter 
220 Fruit, a method of preserv- 
ing all <he year 



299 
346 



199 



192 



to grow, during win- 
ter, 

— frosted, to recover 
— , ripe, to manage for a 

desert 

— Stains, to take out 

— Tvees, to cure, when 
infected, with an easterly 
blight, " 

bad effects of 



199 

257 
199 

200 
341 



262 
261 



iron nails on 

, to destroy in- 
sects on 378, 37S 

, to improve, by 

attending to the soil, 259 

, Chinese me- 
thod of propagating ib^ 

.... p to prevent 



INDEX, 



4H', 



Trom being damaged by 
spring frost, 



Page. 



Page, 
mend 



, or by hares or 

rabbits, 260 

, growth of, to 

promote ih. 
, Watlj method of prun- 
ing 263 
Fuel^ economy in 217 
Fumigatihg Ca/ce*, to make 221 
Fumigalion Poxoder^ to 
^ make a valuable 280 
JP?^nii/wr«, varnish for 176 
Furs, to preserve 140 

, methods of preserving 

from moths ib. 

Furse, very beneficial as a 
wliner food fur horses, 121 

G 

Galls., a substitute for, in 

dyeing 235 j 

Game^ method of preserv- 
ing 155 
Gardens cleared of vermin 

by ducks, 375 

Gargle for a sore throat, 302 
Garlic, useful properties of 307 
Gas-Light^ method of pro- 
ducing on a small scale 239 
Geesse, method of fattening 183 

, rules for plucking 184 

, to improve the dovirn 

of ib. 
, to ascertain the pro- 
perties of goose down, ib, 
Gv-ding^ iron or steel me- 
thod of 73 

, Dry 74 

•■ brass or silver, com- 

position for ib. 

Gilt Buckles and Tef/s^ to 

clean 139 

— — Gingerbread., the dan- 
ger of children eating 176 
Ginger Beer, to make 97 

GlasS'Stopples of smelling* 
bottles, hovr loosened, 162 



Glass y cement to 
broken 

, process for painting 

on 

, to cut 

, to stop cracks in 

Globesy to silver 

Glasses, t55|:restore, when 
tarnished. 

Glaziers, to prevent the ef- 
fects of the poison of lead 
on 

Gloves, art of dyeing lea- 
ther 

Gold, to clean 

and Silver Laie, to 

clean 

— '■ — , to clean and restore 
its !u5(re, 74, 

, Shell, to make 

Ring, to take off from 

a finger 

Glue, an excellent 



Lip, for joining pa- 
per, silk, or thin leather, 
— , common, useful pro- 
f)erty of 

parchment 



i3i 

241 

75 

133 

75 

174 



287 

234 

74 

174 

138 

74 

398 
125 

126 

127 

126 



Gnats, to alleviate the pain 
occasioned by the stins: 
of 300, 301 

Gooseberry Caterpillars, to 
destroy the 

Vinegar, to 



make 
Goose-Down, to ascertain 
the properties of 
Grass, usefulness of 

to 



372 

186 



-, Ointrttent, 



make 

Quills, Dutch method 

of preparing, lor writing 

Granaries, poplar wood for 
the flooring, a preventive 
against the destruction of 
corn by weevils and in- 
sects. 



184 
219 

298 

83 



42 



4 IS'- 



INDEX. 



Page, 

Granariesj to destroy ver- 
min in 379 

Grapes, to preserve 196, 261 

■ JVine, to make 204 

Seeds^ a substitute . 

for coifee 171 

Grass, Striped, recommend- 
ed for hay, 0' 57 

•= Lands, to protect from 

pismires 63 

■ i?3,'ej when to cut for 

hay 52 

Gravel Walks^. sure method 
of curing 253 

Grease-Spots, method of 
discharging, from woollen . 
cloths 341 

, to take from the 

leaves of books, paper, . 
&c. 92, 340 

' -, to extract from 

92 



Pag£. 
Hair, superHaous, to re- 
move 39x9 

preparation of a liquid 

' to convert red or light- 
coloured into a deep 
brown, 333,397 

Powder^ to know 



books 
-, to discharge from 



leather 



' -, substitute for coach . 

wheels, 
Green, method of dyeing 
= , to stain paper, or 

parchment 
H^OTf^e, situation for, 

and management of 
Grotto, economical method 

of forming and ornament- 
ing a 
Ground-Ivy, use of, in ale,, 
Qruhs, to destroy^ 
Gums, tincture for the 

, rules for preserving 

Gum^ valuable properties of 

the cherry-tree 
Gun-Barrels, to brown.: 
Gunpowder, to incxease the 

force of 
— , to recover 



400 

405 

236 

325 i 



whether adulterated with 
lime, 

^ to perfume 

Hall Pavements^ mixture 
for cleaning 

Hand, method to recover 
a violent sprain m the 

, to prevent inconveni- 
ence from the perspira- 
tioaofthe 

H-ais, a varnish, for straw 
and chip > 

, to prevent being spot- 
ted by rain, 

Hay, striped grass, recom- 
mended for ^ 

■« Stacks, to prevent tak- 
ing fire, . 

Tea, to make for 

■ calves,' 

, virtues of, for 



333 
ib,. 

175 

299 



185. 



139 



ib. 



51. 



CO 



119. 
115 

200. 
100. 



cattle, 
\Hasei'A''uts, to preserve for 
250[ mo..ths , 

JV*W, the usefulness of 

in brewing. 
109\Heallh, rules for preserv- • 
97| ing in-winter ~ 277. 

29Q\Hedges^ evergreen, to train. 44 
292JH"f 7?,- ^ substitute for 75, 400. 
29.1 Herbs, to preserve 328 

— : — , to propagate- 264_ 

.2L19 and Flowers, in sumr 

247 



damaged 



H 

Hair, to increase 
growth of 



mer to be transplanted in 
the evening, 257* 

248 Herb-Tea, to make British 210 

\Homa3seiPs (M,) cure for 
t6.' burns and scalds, 293 

iHoney, method of increas- 
ing the quantity of 15&» 
the \Hooker, (Mrs.), her com- -. 
333,4041 position for painting, 318 



«.' 



IN^DEX. 



41 r 



Page 
Ifop», to extrErcithe virtues 

oi ill brev.ing 
Horn, to stain, to imitate 

tortoise shell, 
Hornets, method of destroy- 

i;.g 
Horsc-CliesnutSy method of 

extracting starch from 
, liiility of in 

bleaching, 



fire 



m 



Horses, to extricate from 
to cuic the chollc 

, utility of carrots 

for 

inferior to oxen 

, ut';:;y of furze for 

House-Drains, to prevent 

the disagreeable smell 

arising from 
Hnngary-PVater^ to make 
pre- 



Hgst 



cric 



, method ol 
venting the 



on paper, 



designs made on stone. 

Incense, cakes of, for per- 
fuming apartments. 

Ink, an indelible writing 

, China, 

, Indian, substitute for 

— ' ', to make 

, of the ancients, 

, Printing^ to make 

-^—^Red 

, SympalTieiic or Invisi- 

bte 

, to make a black jap- 
an 

♦-—, excellent to make 



96 

'236 

380 

86 

96 

243 

242 

120 
45 
12 



Page" 
Ink, to prevent moulding, 310 

, to remove spots of 342, 345 

, perniancnt, for mark- 
ing linen, 14,3, 31 1 
Injtciion, to prevent 2!i0 
Insects, a varnish for pre- 



servmg 



365 



■, methods of destroy- 



221 

329 

279 



76 

73 
76 



Impression^ to transfer any, 

v,'ith vermilion 
of leaves and 

plants, method of takina: 

off , ^ 

from 



229 



79 

240 

221 
313 
310 

ib. 

ih. 
313 
311 
309 

312 

300 
it. 



ing tbose which attack 

tVuit-trees, 371, el seq. 

Irisk Salt Butler, method 

of taking oil' the rank- 

ncs5-, 167 

[ten, useful process relative 

to 76, el seq, 

, to prevent rusting, 76, 178 

, to clear, from rust, '^'^ 

, to <;ild 

, solder, 

, lead 'oloured paint, 

to preserve and make 314 
Moulds^ to lake out 

of linen 342 
Nails, bad effects of, 

on fi-uit trees, 261 

Ivory, to soften 77 

— ■ — Leaves, for miniature 

painters, to prepare 324 

Ivy, Ground, the uses of, 

in ale 97 



Jessamine pomatuav, to 

make 326- 



K 



Kale, Scotch^ excellent for 

cattle 114' 

Ketchup^ Walnut, to make 201 
Koumiss, to make 3S5- 



Lace, gold and silver, to 
clean IT-i^ 



11 J> 



StfDEXc 



Pase 



I^mpSy to prevent the 
smoke of, being hurtful 

■ , economical wicks 

for 

Land, experiment in ma- 
nuring 



*~ , waste, advanta- 
geously pknted witlv al- 
der 
Lameness, remedy for the 

cure of 
LainpHghlers, hints to 
I:t«rks, method of catching 
Lauriis, sassci^nis, and ben- 
zoin, to obtaia aromeiic 
oils iVom 
Laveniet\ to make quint- 
essence of 
' — , Oil, sophistica- 

tion of, to detect 

— ■ Wafer, to make 

Leather, process for pre- 
paring nitrous acid for 
extracting stains from 



225 

26. 

48 

38 

297 
78 
89 

327 

ib. 

79 
328 



of preserving birds and 
beasts 

Light, by Kight, to make 
a continual 

Limestone^ method of ascer- 
taining its properties 

Linen, caution in washing 

, to take mildews 



Fags 
148" 

203 



out of 
, to perfume 

'3 



to restore scorch- 



ed 



) 



permanent inks, 
for markins; 

, the fumes of brim- 
stone usef'il in remov- 
ing spots or stains in 

, to render less com- 
bustible 

Lmtn, to prevent, from 



ta/iiiig fire 
Linseed Oil, to whiten 

Varnishu to 

prepare 
tanned ' 343;£i/j-5a/ve, tomake 

Glovss, art of dye- j Glue, to make 

in.^ 234 1 , cliapped or sore, re 

[ raedv for 
l^lLule, Fire, to prepare 
, Coldj 



50 

193.- 



146' 
143 

340 

244 



365 
330 
125 



Leaves of Trees, method of 
tailing off impressions 

'■■ ' , when, 

should be collected for 
pharmaceutical purposes 264 
Leaf, to obtaia the shape 

of a 79 
Leeches-^ observations on 304 
.Iteinons, to keep 197 
•, to preserve, dur- 
ing a long voyage, the 



juice of 195 

• —Juice, to purify 186 

Letters, to gild, on vellum 

or paper 390, 393 

-»-- — , to preserve from 



bein-: 



opened 
to copy. 



without 



the use of a copying ma- 
chine 
Xprer'5 (Sir A\ method 



91 



ib. 



M 

Madness, method of dis- 
covering canine 

Mahogany, balls for beau- 
tifying . 

, substitute fcr 



17G. 



' ■■■ furnilurp, to clean 174 
Malt, to extract the essence 



of, for brewing 

Spirit, meUiod of giv- 
ing it the flavour of good 
brandy 

Malting, niceties in, to in- 
crease the profit of the 
malsler- 



100 



INDEX. 



4W 



Manures, in general 
—————J compost ma- 
nures 
■» ■ ■■ ■, experiment in 
manuring laud 

, for Clox'cr 

, pigeon's dung use- 
ful as a 
•Marble^ method of clean- 
ing 

' ■■ books or paper, 
to 



Pas;e\ Poge 

47 Milk, to keep 21^ 
, to make old man's -16. 

ib , of Roses, to make 326 

. Milking of cows, directions 

48 for 150 
41 Mildew, to take out of lin- 
en 1S6 

ib. Mites or Weevils, method 
of destroying, in grana- 
175 rics 59 

Molasses, ^rendered fit for 
93 using instead of sugar 114 

Moss, to destroy, entrees 261 
Moths, preventives against 



Marie, method of ascertain- 
ing its properties 50 
Matlrasses, hints relating to 145j the ravages of the 
Meat, to purify ily -blown \MournitigTBuckles, to 
155, 156 make blue 



140, 146 



\ 



137 



, to sweeten tainted 

, to preserve in long 

voyages 

, improved mode of 

salting 

> ■■ , to preserve, in hot 
weather 

r ■ ■ ■ , to preserve in the Por- 
tuguese manner 

, to preserve by trea- 
cle 

Med J Is, to take off 

Melo?is, to prevent irregu- 
lar growth of 

Mezzolintos, tomake 

Mice, to prevent destroy- 
ing early-grown peas 64, 269 

Milch Coxvs, additional 
quantity of milk by keep- 
ing in tlie house 

• , great i;crease 



ib. 
167 

156 

- 

155 

156 
71 



Mouse-Trap, a never fail- 
ing 

Mum, to make 

Mvshrooms, to produce 

Mutton, to preserve good, 
during a voyage to the 
West Indies 



71 

366 

202 

268 



156 



of milk, from feeding with 
sainfoin 

-, most proper food 



ff?r 

Milk, 

asse 

> 
for 



to make artificial 
Human, substitute 



J^'ails, bad efifects of, on 

I fruit-trees 261 
, (human)-.to preserve 399 
..,^^J^ankecn-Dye, tomake 235 
JS'aples Y tliow, to prepare 

tiie 317 

K\)on, way of determinmg 

the exact time of the 80 

Xorfolk, mode of fattening 

turkies 404 

Nose, to €top the bleeding 

of 303 
JVulmcgs, to judge the prop- 
erties of 401 
, economical use of ib^ 



117 



116 



117 



— , to, take the taste of 
tit^.^ turcip off 150, 168 



214;«Vu/s, Cashew, to make a 
wholesome food of 

213 , IJozel, to preserve 

for months 



220 
20<5 



420 



iWD'S-'Xc 



# Paze 

Jsfuls, Hasel, the usefuloess 
of, in brewing 100 



O 



Oa/5, to keep from becom- 
ing mustj 59 

OzZ, Aromatic^ to obtain 
from tlie pollicle of the 
lauriis, sassafras, and 
benzoin 327 

, Carrier's^ substitute 

for 
™— , Sweet, to make Ib.ji 

~— , Drying^ to prepare 113 
— — of Lavender^ to know j 
if adullerated 79 

.-„ — Ta.rptniine ib. 

. ^ Linseed^ to whiten ib. 

, Pam/i 'Substitute for 315 

, Paintings^ to clean 'HWZ 

— , varnish for 364 

•Onions^ to obtain a good 

crop of 268 

Oran<£,e!i^ to keep 197 

Otlo ofRo^e.t, to make 329 

Oxen, advantages of plough- 
in a: with 45 



dry and cease to smell in 
six hours 

Painters^ to prevent the ef- 
fects of the poison of lead 
on 

Painting^ Mrs. Hooker's 
composition for 

, rooms, rails, &c. di- 
rections for 

, pror;ess faf, on glass 

{Oil) to clean 



Page 



402 

287 
318. 

313 

241 
322 

lb. 

244 

— H'M'igmgSj method of 177 
cleaning 
— , to gild letters on 390, 393 



Paling^ a composition for 
preserving 
83jP«;Pfr, to render less com- 
bust! ule 



or Parckmeni. to 



stam crimson 



stain green 



stain yellow 



prevent from sinking 



to 



to 



to 



to 



32-5 

ih. 
397 
400 



Paint, cheap, for weather- 
boards " 44, 316 

, Of/, substitute for 313 

, Blacky to make a 

cheap 315 

, Brown^ to make a ib. 

■' , MUk-while, to make 

a good 

. Tirmsparent^ to judge 

of' 

-, Lead-coloured^ to 

make a, to preserve i;'o a 

, to take the smell off, 

from rooms 178 

-* a Vankerman?s. will 



402 
324 



extract grease from 
ParclmicnL^ Glue, to make 

125, 126 
Parsley^ sown with rape- 
seed, a preservative a- 
gainst the resp in sheep, 123 
Parsnips, productive of 
milk in cows, 117 

, to preserve dur- 

59 

227 

93 

125 

325 

17.> 
398 

268 



. ing winter 

Paste or Fjyod, for singing 
birds, to make 

, book binder's strong, 

, to make patent 



^oiterns for working 
lin, to stencil 
ipavemcnf., 
3141 cleaning 



mus- 



mixture for 



Pearl White, 

Peas, advantage df sowing, 
. in circlets, 



tNDEX^ 



421 



Page 

Peas, t^rcsit advantage gain- 
ed by the cultivation of 
the everlasting, as a crop 
for cattle, 114 

•^ , to prevent mice des- 
troying early sown 64, 269 

Pencil and Chalk Drawings^ 
to preserve 229 

Drawings^ method of 

230 



and 



266 



32£ 



185 



setting 
Pepper^ description of 

to make Cayenne 
Perfumes^ preparation, &c. 

of 
Perspiration of the hand?, 

inconvenience of, to pre- 
vent 
Petals of plants, to preserve 

the colour of 
Pewter^ to clean 
Phantasmagoria^ to make 

transparent screens for 
Phosphorus^ to make 

— Bottles^ to make 

239 & 240 
Match-Bottle 



« Page 

Plants, to preserve the co- 
lour of the petals of 

•^ , to air in rooms 

, to preserve the seeds 

of those in a state of vege- 
tation, 

-, to take impressions 

of 
Plated Goods, to clean 

— , to make povr- 

der for 218 

Plaster Casts or Models^ to 

varnish 362 
, to harden 397 



73 

250 



251 

78 
139 



-, figures, to bronze, 
7« 



Ploughing with Oxen^ great 
advantage of 
73 Poison of t/ie Deadly JVight 
173i Shade, cure for the 

— - of lead, to painters, to 
prevent the ill effects of 
to counteract the ef- 



241 
395 



to make 

-~ Pencil, to make 



239 
ib 

47 



Pigeons- Dung.) utility of, as 
manure, 

, method of fatten- 
ing, see Poultry. 

Pigs, profitable way of fat- 
tening, 

Pits, to purify the muddy 
water of 

Pismires, to prevent the in- 
crease of, in grass lands. 

Plantations, method of pre- 
venting hares and rabbits 
from barking 

Plants, preservation of suc- 
culent 

, preserved from in- 
sect? and flies by the ap- 
plication of elder, 

. improper to be wa- 
tered iu dishes, 236 



116 



191 



63 



260 
199 



61 



fects of 
Pokers, improperly left in 

the fire, 
Polished Iron Stoves^ to 

clean 

Metal, to keep from 



45 



289 



287 



289 



rust 

Pomade-Divine, to make 
Ponds, method of draining 

in level ground 
, to keep free from 

weeds 
Pomatum, to make both 

hard and soft 326, 

Poplar-Wood, virtues of, for 

flooring of granaries. 
Poppy, to make sweet oil 

from 

, useful properties of 

Porter Plaster, fur bruises, 
Portuguese mode of pre- 
serving fish and meat, 
Potatoes, instructions for 

raising 



223 

178 

76 
331 

43 

42 

331 

42 

185 
308 
295 

155 

56 



LL 



tn 



IKBEX. 



Page. 
Potatoes, method of preserv- 
ing 198 & 199 
. , to make bread 



from 

, to restore when 

frost-bitten, 

-, to make size from 



IQo 

198 
125 
179 

182 
-194 

280 



Poultry^ to fatten 
, new method of rear- 
ing 179, 
pounce^ to make 
Powder^ to make a valuable 
fumigation, 

Magazine^ to lessen 

the ill effects-of humidity 

to .247 

Primrose-Vinegar^ to make. 188 

printing- Ink^ to make 311 

Prints or Boolcs^ method of 

cleaning dirty 322 

, Pie tares or Drawings^ 

to take a copy of instant- 
ly, -ib. 
Privies, to prevent disagree- 
able smells from 108 
Priming of Wall-Fruil^ 263 

. Vines, 264 

Punchy to make excellent 202 
Purity of spirits, to try 398 

Putrefaction, to preserve 

biscuit from 164 

Putty ^ to naake 314 

Q 

...Quickset Hedge or Fence, to 

make a 43 

(Quicksilver, 396 

Quills, to make floats from 

for fishing, ^66 

:. , method of clarifying 83 

, to harden ib. 

, . Dutch method of 

preparing for writing, ib. 

i^uinlescence of lavender to 

extract 326 



K 



Page. 



Radishes, method of culti- 
vating 
Rankness of butter to cure 
Rats, Dr. Taylor's method 
of destroying 

and other vermin, me- 



thod of destroying, 336, 

Rasor- Straps, management 
of 

Red Spurge, the useful pro- 
perties of 

Refrigerator or Condenser, a 
cheap 

Reptiks, to kill 

Resp in Sheep, parsley sown 
with rapeseed, a preserv- 
-ative against the 

Rheumatisms, preventive of 
autumnal 

Rhubarb, Garden, to culti- 
vate 

^ — , Twrfee^, method of 

cultivating and curing, 
from the seed 

Rivers, to purify the muddy 
waters of 

, embankments of, to 

prevent from being injur- 
ed 

Roads, to repair near coal- 
mines, 

Rooms, to air plants con- 
tained in 

, to fumisiate and pu- 



rify foul , 
, to take 



the smell 



of paint; from 

, ventilator for 

Roots of trees economical 
use of 

Roses, to grow during win- 
ter, 

, milk of 

, to make otto of 



the water from 



270 
167 

337 

339 

222 
226 

152 

378 

123 

273 

272 

273 
191 

39 

84 
250 

280 

ITS 
108 

225 

257 

326 

329 

lb. 



IlfDEX, 



42a 



Vai 



Ri)L the cnn?c and preven- 
tion of the dry 

— , in shcep^ cure of the 

, easy mctliod 

ofprevcntins: the 

Rusl^ to clear iron from 

, to prevent cutlery 

takio!? 

, to take off fiteel 

— , to prevent iron and 
steel taking 

Russian mode of coiiilract- 
v\g artificial stone-floors, 

Uj/c-GrasSj when to cut, for 
"hay, 



350 
123 

ib. 
178 

16 
Ml 

V 

100 



210 



covering, uiien sufllcienf- 
ly ripe, 51, 

— -, preparation for wing- 



251 

57 

222 



116 
398 

16P. 



294 
M6 

114 

241 



SrtOT;, the virtues of 
Saintfoin^ productive of 

rnilli in cows, 
Salad^ to raise qui* kly 
liitlt liuUcryio nuikc fro=-h 
Hcalds^ cures for 293, 294, 399 
, vinegar efficacious in 

the cure of 
Scorched Linen, to restore 
Scofch Kale, an excellent 

food for cattle. 
Screens, transparent, for the 

Phantasmagoria, 
Sciiny, to cure tlie 219, 298 
Sea embankments^ to pre- 
vent mischief to 9 

Sickness, to prevent 301 

Water, to render fit to 

wash linen, 193 

■ , to make artificial 383 
Seeds, Forei'^n, method of 

facilitating tlie growth of 252 
to preserve from ver- 

51 

251 

258 



cd 
SJiaving, composition for 
Sheep, to preserve, in win- 
ter, _ 122 

, to prevent the reyp in 12;i. 

— — , tf> pievcni and cure 
the rot in ib. 

, cure of t!io rot in ib. - 

, the wool of, improv- 
ed hy smearing, 122 
, to mark, without in- 
jury to the wool, ib. 403 
Shell Gold^ to make 74' 
Sherbet, to make 203 
Ships, to stop the progress 
of firs on board of 24'B 

, method of trying the 

goodness of timber used 
in the arsenal at Vienna, 



jmin when sown, 

— , to preserve, in a s(ate 
for vegetation, 

— , of flowers, to pre- 
serve, 

— -, easy method of dis- 



for buildinj,. 

Shoes, easy rn^;tllod of clean- 
ing in winter, 

, danger of putting spi- 
rits into 

J to prevent takia£ Win- 



ter, 

Shrubs, superfluous suckers 
should be taken off, 

Sick Persons, fumigation for 
the rooms of 

, cautions in visiting 

Sight, rules for the preserv- 
ation of 

Silk, method of cleaning 

, to take stains of 

grease out of 

Stockings, to clean 

Worms, the outside 

woof of, an excellent 
styptic. 

Silver, composition for gild- 
ing 

Goods, to clean 

Silvering, art of 

Simple WatcrSj method of 
distilling 



350 
136 
147 
iSS 

261 

221 

278 

283- 
141 

344 
146 

302 

74. 

138 
75 

153 



INDEX. 



Pas-e 



Sise^ (o make from pota- 
toes 

f^ky-Rockets, to make 

Slugs, to prevent getting in- 
to fruit trees 

Sleep, to promote 

Small-Pox, 

•Smearing, improves the 
wool of sheep 

Smells J disagreeable in 
hou=e-drai[is, method of 
preventing 

, in newly painted 

rooms, to remove, 

SmeHing-Bottky to make 
an excellent 

, stopples of, 

to loosen 

Smui in wheat, preventives 
of 

Snails, to destroy 378, 

Soap, a liquid which may 
be used instead of solu- 
tions of 

, Essence of, for shav- 
ing 

— — J to aake Jamaica ve- 
getable 

, substitute for 

, to make genuine 

Windsor 

-^ , to make Lady Der- 
by's 

Sore Lips, remedy for 

Throat, to cure a 

' , a drink for a 

; , gargle for 

Sophistication of oils to de- 
tect 

Spectacles, rules for choice 
of 

Spider, to destroy the red 

Spirits, to improve the taste 
and smell of common 

. , danger of putting in 

shoes or boots 

-, to try their purity 



125 

249 

397 
278 
396 

122 



108 



178 



325 



Page 
Spots or Stains, receipt for 

removing: 92, 340, 345 

Sprains, remedy for 299 

Spruce-Beer, to make 160 

Spurge, useful properties of 

the red 220. 

Stage-Coaches, hints for 

ventilating 279 

Stains for the hair, 333, 335 
Starch, to extract, from 

horse-chesnuts 86 

Steel, method of cleaning 173 

— , to prevent rusting 76 

— , method 



of cleaning 



rusty 
-, art of gilding 



5/ec275 for wheat, 
162) for fertilizing wheat, 

C4/C. 

53]Sli!ton Cheese, to make 
'29'7\Stings of bees, gnats, or 
wasps, remedies for 
Stone Floors, artificial, io 
84 construct 

Stoves, method of cleaning 
222 Sf?aiv, to bleach 

Straicherrias, directions for 



managn^g, m summer 
Strawberry-Plants, to pre- 
serve from the heat of the 



177 
73 

53 

ib. 
178 

300 

100 

178 

90 

271- 



Spirituous Liqxiors, to cure 
bad flavour of 



209 
207 

331 

Stone Stairsy mixture for 
209 cleaning 
403 Striped Grass, recommend- 

301 ed for hay, 

302 Stnchum or Perpetual Ink, 
ib. to make 

Styptics to stop bleeding, 
79 Sugar of Lead, to detect in 
wine 
282 Sulphur, use of, for destroy- 
378 ing insects, Sec. 

\ Summer, a pleasant drink 
152 for the 202 

Sun-Flower^ virtues of the 
47 219, 258 

398 Sicedish method of raising 

iturkies, 182 

Sicords, to make blue 71 



ib. 

175 

51 

313 
302 

205 

61 



IBTDF^. 



4-5.'V 



Pap:c. 



Table-Beer, substitute for 160 
—————-, to make excel- 
lent 97 
Tables^ to clean mahogany 174 
Tainted Fishy to cure 155 
Tar-fVater, useful in ex- 
panding the lungs 275 
Tartar^ to remove from the 

teeth 29-2 

Taylor, Dr. his method of 

destroying rats 337 

— — — — — , his method of 
ascertaining the proper- 
ties of marie, &c. 50 
Teams, and tlieir manage- 
ment, 45, 46* 
Tea, British, a substitute 

for foreign 210 

-"—, Hay, virtues of, for 
cattle 115, ll(« 

, Beef, to make 158 

, British Herb, to make 210 

- — , Kettles, to prevent the 

formation of crust in 16!.' 
, Urns, polished, prefer- 
able to varnished 221 
Teeth, charchoal good for 
cleaing 156 

, rules for preserving 29 1 

, to remove tartar 



Page. 

Tiling, economical method 
of 105 

Timber, cure for the dry rot 
in 350 

, method of trying 

the goodness of, for ship- 
building, used in the arse- 
nal at Vienna 

-^ green to season and 



render fit for use 
Tinder, economy in 
Toast and Water, to make, 

and advantages of 
Tobacco, the great utility of 275 



ib. 

ib. 
218 

103: 



Tooth-Ache, to prevent 
Powders, to make 



from the 

, to facilitate children 

in cutting 

and Gums, tincture 



for the- 

Temperature proper, for a 
dairy 

Thatching, to effect a sav- 
ing in the article of 

Thirst, to prevent, at sea, 
in cases of emergency 

Thunder Foicder, to make 

Tiles, to increase the dura- 
bility of, for covering 



292 

29( 

29.2 

149 

39 

211 
241 



buildings 



103, 402 



Toys, gilt, to clean 

Tracing-Papjir, method of 
using 

Transparent Colours for 
Painting, to judge of 
Screens^ to 



make 

Paper, for 

Drawing, to make 

Treacle, to preserve meat 
with 

Trees, composition (ov heal- 
ing wounds in 

, economical use of 



291 
292 
IS'J. 

223 

324 

241 

227 

156 

347 

226 

264 

226 

3-15 

347 

22(5 

261 

262 

, to destroy cater- 
pillars on 52, 63, 37^ 



roots of 

, the leaves of, to be 

collected for pharmaceu- 
tical purposes 
--, the roots of fir and 



pine, yield pitch and tar 
— -, to avoid obstruction 

in the growth of forest 
, to cause a new bark 

to grow on old 
, useful properties of 

their roots 
, suckers, superfluous, 

to be removed 
, to cure the canker 



in 



ll2 



4Qfi. 



INDEX* 



Trtts^ to destroy moss on 261 

■ , to increase the 

growth of 260, 346| 

--, to prevent slugs get- 

" " 378,397 

269 



tiDg into fruit 



, to propagate 

, white washing re- 
commended for the tr.«nks 
of 

Tuh-Buiter^ method of cur- 
ing 

Turkey-Carpets., method of 
cleaning 

Rhubarb, method of 

cultivating and curing, 
from the seed 272,273 

TurkieSy method of raising 
Swedish 

, to fatten, accord- 



346 



167 



175 



182 



F«rmsA, colourless, of mas- 
tic and sandrac 
— , for violins and mu- 



Fage,. 



sical instruments 
, observations 



356: 

ib. 



on 



Spirit Varnishes 357 

, on oil varnishes 358 

, black japan 360< 

, common ib, 

, with turpentine ib. 

, elastic gum ib. 361 

, amber 362 

, for drawings and 

prints ib. 

-, for plaster casts or 



ing to the Norfolk plan 
Turnips, proper soil for the 

cultivation of 
, to destroy the fly, 



SLc. m 

' , to preserve 

frost 

— -—- , to protect 
from tho slug 



U 



404 



374 



63 



from 

59, 60 
them 

63 



■Umbrellas, excellent vaicpish 
for -^05 



iXseful AriS) 



70 



V 



VanTiermarCs Paint, to dry 
and cease to smell within 
5ix hours 402 

>''(tpours, noxious, in wells, 
to remove ^ 384 

J garlic drives a- 

way 307 

Vorriish, observationfs on 

preparing and using ^ii^ 

— -. -with spirit of viinc 350 



medals 

, for brass 

, Chinese 



368-, 

362 
368, 
369- 



, to prevent the solar 

rays passing through win- 
dows 

, seed-lac 

, shell-lac 



, a black, for stmw 



hats 



ih. 
ib. 
ib. 

139 



excellent for um- 



brellas 
, for earthenware 



-, for engravers 
-, for furniture 
-, for oil paintings 
-, for preserving in- 



405 

363 

ib. 

176, 363 



sects 



-, for pales 
-, for toilet 



boxes, 



364 

365 
366 

363 



fans, &c. 
, preparation of co- 
pal ' 359,361,364 

3 to make gold 357, 

359, 367 

5 to make white 364 

, to prepare linseed 

365 

199 
393 

34^ 



oil 
Vegetables, to restore, when 

frost bitten 
Vellum, to gild letters on 
Velvet, method of taking 
wax out of 



INDEX, 



42? 



Page 

f^'elvet, to raise the surface 
or pile of 345 

fenomous Animals^ to pre- 
vent death from the bite 
of 289 

Ventilators for rooms 108 

Verdigris^ blue colour pre- 
pared from 314 

, suustitute for 

237,238 

Verjuice^ to make 186 

Virmin.) method of destroy- 
ing 370, el seq. 

, to destroy in chil- 
dren's heads 379 

, to preserve seeds 

from, when sown 51 

Vessels/or culinary purpos- 
es^ necessary hints to 
those who use copper 224 

Vinegar^ to make balsamic 
and anti-putrid 188, 281 

, efficacious in the 

cure of burns or scalds 294 

, to strengthen 188 

— — — , Gooseberry^ to 
make ib. 

— — — , to prepare aro- 
matie 332 

, to make prim- 
rose 188 

— , cheap method, of 

making 186 

' , to make with the I 

refixse of bee-hives 1 87! 

Vines^ important uses of the 
leaves of 219 

— — , to prune advanta- 
geously 264 



Page- 

fVarts^ cure for 296 

Wash^ for preserving. draw- 
ings 230 

Wasps ^ cure for persons 
having accidental!}' swal- 
lowed 300 

, method of destroy- 
ing 380 

, or Bees, to cure the 

sting of 300, 301 

Waste Lands, advanta- 
geously planted witii al- 
der 38 

JVater (Toast and Water) 
to make and its advanta- 
ges 193 

— , easy method of ob- 
taining 42 

, Artijkial, for writ- 
ing letters of secrecy 388, 38J> 

, Hungary, to make 329 



to keep free from 



W 

Wafers, method of making 
Wall-Fruit, method cf pre- 
serving 
Walnut-K ctcJmp, to make 
Walls, to cure darcp 
Warming Beds^ hints on 



weeds, artificial pieces 
of ^ 42 

— ~, of rivers and pits, to 
purify the muddy 192, 193 

Proof Cloth, to nxdike 141 

— -, Putrid, to make 
sweet 188, 191 

, to preserve from 

putrefaction, In long voy- 
ages 137 

-, to prevent from free- 

ziug in winter 192 

, to obtain pure and 

soft, for medicinal pur- 
poses, without distillation 192 

, to filter 194, 195 

, to make more effica- 

c ioua in extinguishing 



tires 

, to purify, for domes- 
tic purposes 

87 , to prevent boots and 

shoes taking 

, Tar, useful in ex- 



201 
103 
168 



panding rhe lungs 

, to take spots out of 

cloths, Sec. 



245 
19C 
138 
279 
344 



4fa 



INDEX* 



Page. 
Watery Sea, (artificial) to 

make 383 

■ , to make, fit for 

washing linen at sea, 193 

, IVarm^ properties of ib. 

Waters, Simple, method of 

distilling 153 

Water-Gladiole, to make 

bread from . 165 

Wax, to bleach bees, 94 

, to dissolve, in water, 86 

, to take, out of velvet, 342 

Weather, to judge ©f the 404 
--= jBoctrdmi?",. compo- 
sition for preserving 107,316 
Weeds^ usefulness of mowing 65 
Weevil, to preserve sea.- 

bread from the 1 64 

Wells, to disperse the,noxi-!-. 

ous vapours found in 384 

Wet Clothes, to prevent dan-. 

ge? from-- 143 

W'^Aert/, approved method of . 

65 
53 

ib. 



Wine, to makcan excellent 

family 204 
, to make birch-tree 203 



British Champagne, 



sowing 
, steep for 



-, to prevent the smut- 



m 



to make 
Wine, to make cuTPaat 

, to make elder 

, to make grape 

, to mtake koumiss 

, to make orange 

-. , excellent American 

WoodyCemeni for preserv- 
ing, in damp situations 
, to make a liquid for 



335 
£03 
204 

ib, 
385 
236 

ih, 

34a 
333. 



I 



■■ FZoz^r, to judge of the 

quality of 162 

— — — , to ascertain if , it be 
adulterated 163, 164 

=^ , to sow, to advan- 
tage, without mauure, 54 

= , utility of sowing 

buck 55 

—^ , to protect from 

crows ib. 

While Paint, to make 
good 402 

Wicks, economical for lamps,, 

225 

Windsor ^oap, to make ge-, 
mine 331 

Wine, a test for discovering 
metals in, that are injuri-, 
ou? to the health, 206 

"'-=—, to discover adulterat- 
ed ib. 



staining 

, to preserve from 

catching fire, and from 
decay 106, 244 

, to stain, a beautiful 

red 

, to istain, a fine 

black 

, to stain a green 

iice, to destroy 

Woof, the outside of silk- 
worms, an excellent styp- 
tic. 

Wool, infested witlv insects, 
to purify 

Wool of Sheep, improved 
by smearing, 

Woollen-Cloths.^ method of 
discharging grease-spots 
from 

T , to prevent 



234 
ih. 

23a 

374 



302 
141 



122. 



341 



the ravages of moths in 
, method of 



cleaning 



Stuffs, to bleach 
to render water- 
proof 
Worms, to destroy ior gar- 
dens 

in the human body, 



to cure 
Wounds, to prevent from 

mortifying^ 



140 

141 
90 

141 

382 
303 
406^ 



INDEX* 



42t> 



Page. 

Wounds in Trees, conoposi- 
tion lor healing 263 

Wren, insects destroyed by 
the 382 

Writing, method of recov- 
ering decayed 392 

, secret methods of 

388, 389 

■, to make durable 391 

, to revive old 393 

, with different 



colours on the same pa- 
per, 
-, to write in the 



dark, 



-, ornamental 
-, to take out 



390 

ib. 
ib. 

392 



Page. 



Yeast, to make 98. 

, to make artificial 99 

, to make in the Turk- 
ish manner, ib. 

, method of preserving ib. 

, substitutes for 98, 99, 

161, 166 

Veilou', method of dyeing 236 

, to prepare the Na- 
ples 317 

, to stain paper or 

parchment 324 



THE END. 




HOWE & SPALDING, 

HAVE for sale a variety of BOOKS on Agriculture. 
Domestic Kcono my ^ Manufactures , and on the Me-^ 
chanic. Useful and Ornammtal ArtSf amsn^ which 
are the follQwing i 

GADEMY of Science and Art, or New Precep- 
tor, containing a complete sj^stem of usefuland 
accomplished Education, as well a?^ general knowledge 
in all the branches of science, wit1i numerous plates, 
maps and illustrations, 2 vols. 8vo. §12 60. 

Art of Drawing in perspective, 12mo. stitched, 50 
cents. 

Art of Painting in Water Colours, &c. exemplified m 
Landscapes, Flowers, &c. with instructions for paint- 
ing on Glass and in Crayons, with directions for pre- 
paring the Colours, 8vo. stitched, 50 cents. 

Bancroft's Experimental researches into the Philoso- 
phy of permanent Colours, and the best means of pro- 
ducing them by Dyeing, .Calico-printing, &;c. 2 vols. 
8vo. g6. 

Bard's Young Shepherd's Guide, with notes jind prcr 
cepts for the management of Sheep and treatment of 
their diseases, 12rno. 75 cents. 

Bemis* Dyer's Companion, 12mD. ^1 50. 

Bingley's Qsefu! Knowledge ; or a familiar and ex- 
planatory account of the various productions of Nature, 
Mineral, Vegetable and Animal, which are chiefly em- 
ployed for the use of man, illustrated with numerous 
figures, 3 vols. I2mo. §5. 

Bordley's EpiloTue of Forsyth, on the Culture anct- 
management of Fruit In'cs ; also Notes on American 
Gardening nnj Fruit?, -ho, '^l. 



BOOKS* 

Cabinet of the Arts, being a new and univer$ai 
Drawing Book, forming a complete system of Drawing 
5"nd Painting in all its branches, Etching Engraving, 
Perspective and Surveying; with all their various and 
appendant parts, containing the whole theory and prac- 
tice of the Fine Arts in genera!, displaying in the most 
familiar manner, the wbole rudiments of Imitation, 
Design, Disposition, fnvention and Deception, illus- 
trated with upwards of 60 elegant Engravings, &c. &c, 
ill one large volume, 4to. <^33. 

CLart&rls Frugal Housewife, or complete Woman 
Cook, 12mo. stitched, 37 cents. 

Clater's Every Man his own Cattle Doctor, 12mo. ^I. 

Complete Grazier, or Farmer's Cattle breeders and 
Dealers Assistant, with an introductory view of the 
different breeds ti( Neat Cattle, Sheep, Horses and 
Swine ; also an Appendix on the Shepherd's Dog, 
Horses, Asses, Mules, Poultry, Rabbits, Bees, and on 
the improvement of Wool, illustrated by numerous 
engravings, 8vo. j;^4 75. 

Cooper's Practical Treatise on Dyeing and Calico 
printing, exhibiting the processes in the French, Ger- 
man, English and American practice; of fixing colours in 
Woolen, Cotton, Silk and Linen, 8vo. ^3 50. 

Coppinger's American Brewer and Tanner, exhibit- 
ing the most improved process of the former Art with 
lh€ French mode of Tanning, 8vo. ^1 75. 

Coxes view of the cultivation of Fruit Trees and the 
management of Orchards and Cider, with accurate 
descriptions of the most estimable varieties of native 
and foreign Apples, Pears, Peaches, Plums and Cher- 
ries, illustrated by cuts of 200 kinds of Fruit of the 
natural size, 8vo. '^3 25. 

Daubenlou's Advice on the Care and Management of 
Sheep, Bvo. $\ 2a. 

Davy's Elements of AgricultiypI Chemistry, ^2 75. 

Deane's Analytical Guide to the Art of Penmanship, 
4lo. $4. 

Deane's New-England Farmer, containing a com- 
pendious account of the waysandtriethodsiu which the 



BOOltS. 

^\rt of Husbandry may be practised to the greatest ad- 
vantage. 

,, Docneslic Cookery, a new systeni formed upon prin- 
<:iples of Economy, and adapted to the use of private 
families, 12mo. $1 9.b, 

Duncan's practical and descriptive Essays on the Art 
©f Weaving, illustrated by 14 large Engravings, 2 vols. 
8vo. board, in one, ^5 75. 

Ellis's Country Dyer's Assistant, 12mo. 75 cents. 

Evans' Young Millwright and Mijler's Guide, em= 
bellished with 25 plates, 8vo. ^4 50. ^ , 

Forsyth's Treatise on the culture and management of 
Fruit Trees, &c. illustrated with plates, 8vo. ^2. 

Frost's Art of Swimming, a series of practical in- 
structions, by which the Art may be readily attained^ 
accompanied with 12 engravings, 8vo. ^1. 

Glass's Art of Cookery, made plain and easy, 8vo. 

Haigh's Dyers Assistant, in the Art of Dyeing Woal 
and Woolen Goods, from the most eminent authors, 
French and English, 12mo. gl. 

Hale's Farmer's Assistant, or the complete Cattle 
Doctor, containing rules for feeding, breeding and pre- 
serving cattle, 12mo. 50 cents. 

Hall's Distiller, adapted to the use of Farmers as 
well as Distillers, 8vo. ^2. 

Handmaid to the Arts, describing the substances em- 
ployed in painting, the mode of delineating, design- 
ing, gilding, japanning, staining, &c. preparations for 
Inks, Cements and sealing wax, the art of Engraving ; 
the nature, composition and preparation of Glass, of 
Porcelain, &c. &c. 2 vols. 8vo. ^3 75. 

Huber's New Observations on the Natural History 
and management of Bees, 12mo. ^2 25. 

Imison's Elements of Science and Art, being a fa- 
miliar introduction to Natural Philosophy and Chemis- 
try, together with their application to a variety of ele- 
gant and useful arts, enlarged and adapted to the im- 
proved state of science, by T. Webster, and illustrated 
with plates, 2 vols. 8vo. <J8 50. 

Joyce's Scientific Dialogues, in which the first prin- 



BflTOKSi 



oiples of natural and experimental philosophy are fuHy 
and familiarly explained, 3 vols. 18mo. $3, 

Johnstone's Account of the mode of Draining Land, 
according to the system of Joseph Eikington, drawn 
•xp forihe consideration oftheBoard of Agrirnltnrp, il- 
lustrated with 19 engravings, 8vo. ^4 25. 

Keyes' Practical Bee Master, in which is shewn how 
tomana^c Bees, without destroying them, with more 
ease, safety and profit, than by any former method, 

8vo ^1 25. 

Keyes' Ancient Bee Master's farewell, or full and 
plain directions for the management of Bees, to the 
greatest advantage, derived from the experience of 30 

years, 8vo. g2, i r 

Kirwan on the Manures, most advantageously appli- 
cable to the various sorts of soil, and the causes oi 
their beneficial effects, 12mo. 50 cents. 

Knight on the culture of the Apple and Pear, and on 
the ma^'nu.facture of Cider and Perry> 12mo. $1 25. 

M'Culloch's remarks on the Art of making Wine, 
with suggestions for the applications of its principles to 
the imp'rovement of domestic Wines, 12mo. $2 lo. 

M'Harry's Practical Distiller, containing directions 
how to conduct and improve the practical part of dis- 
tilling in all its branches, and sundry extracts of ap- 
proved receipts for making Cider, Domestic Wines and 
Beer, 12mo. $2. 

M'Kenzie's Treati.se on the diseases an^d management 
of Sheep, 8vo. $\ 2o. 

Martins Circle of the Mechanical Arts, containing 
practical treatises on the various Arts, Trades and 
Manufactures, illustrated by numerous engravings, 4to, 

Sll. 

Mills' Treatise on Cattle, shewing the most approv= 
ed methods of breeding, rearing and fitting for use 
Horses, Asses, Mules, Horned Cattle, Sheep, Goats^ 
Swine, kc. .8vo. $2 50,. 12mo. ^1. 

Mills^ Treatise on Farriery, 12mo. $\. 

Nicholson's Farmer's Assistant, embracing every ar- 
tide relative to Agriculture, arranged in alphabetic?.! 
or4er, 8vo. $3. 



BOOKS. 



Obrien's Manufacturer's Companion and Calico- 
printer's Assistant, 12mo. $1 75. 
• ^ Pj4)us's Ladies Receipt-Book, containing a collec- 
tioo of valuable miscellaneous receipts and^choice se- 
crets in useful, elegant and ornamental Arts, 12mo. 
sf Itemed, ^D cents. 

ikairaid's Experienced Housekeeper, for the use of 
Ladies, Housekeepers and Cooks, written purely from 
practice, consisting of nearly one hundred ori-inal re« 
cejpts, 12mo. jgl. "^ 

Rirmford, on the Construction of Kitchen Fire Places 
and Kitchen Utensils, with remarks and observations 
relating to the various processes of Cookery, ^vo. $1. 

Salisbury's Hints addressed to proprietors of Orch- 
ards and Growers of Friut, comprising observations on 
the present state of Apple Trees, also, the natural 
history of the American blight and other insects des- 
iructive of Fruit Trees, 12mo. g2 37. 

Sinclair's Code of Agriculture, including observa- 
tions on Gardens, Orchards, Woods and plantations, 
3vo. $2 75. * ' 

Spurrier's Practical Farmer, a new and compendious 
system of Husbandry, adapted to the different clim- 
ates and soils of America, 8vo. $1 73. 

Sutcliffe's Treatise on Canals and Reservoirs, and 
ibe best mode of designing and executing them, with 
observations on the principal Canals of Great-Britain, 
^nd a comparative view of them ; likewise on the best 
modeof preparing all kinds of Cotton Twist; also, in- 
structions fur designing and building a Corn Mill, &c. 
with important directions on pubiic'drains, 8vo. gS 75 

Taplin's Modern System of Farriery, 8vo. §2 75. 
^ Tapiin's Compendium of practical and Experimental 
Farriery, 12mo. gl. 

Taylor's Familiar Treatise, or Perspective in all its 
Branches, illustrated by bl engravings, 8vo. g5 75. 

Taylor's Familiar Treatise on Drawing for Youth, 
being an Elementary introduction to che Fine Arts, de- 
signed for the instruction of young persons, illustrated 
with 33 superior engravings, 8vo."S4. 

Taylor's Instructor, or a Comprehensive Treatise of 



BOOKS. 

tiie Elemeiils of cutting Garments of ever>' kind, illus- 
Irated willi eight appropriate engravings, 8vo. §2 50. 

Tessier's Complete Treatise on Sheep, with plate?, 
8vo. SI •''0. 

Tingry's Painter's and Varnisher's Guide, or,a Trea- 
tise both in Theory- and Practice, on the Art of mak-* 
ing and applying Varnishes, on the different kinds of 
painting, and on the method of preparing colours, il- 
lustrated with engravings, Cvo. S4 75. 

Washington's Letters to Anthony Young and Sir 
John Sinclair, containing an account of his Husbandry, 
with his opinions on various questions in Agriculture, 
8vo. 75 cents. 

Williams' Elements of Drawing, exemplified in a va- 
riety of figures and sketches of parts of tlie Humao 
Form, consisting of 2(3 copperplate engravings, wilb 
instructions for young beginner*. 4to. stitched, S2. 






C^ ^f 



HAS JUST PUBLISHED AND OFFERS FOR SALE, 

History of Connecticut^ 



IN TWO VOLUMES OCTAVO* 

Mew-Haven, 1819^ 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 184 237 7 






. .,;';:(f.n-?,S*S«j 




























Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



li 



X 



. ^^' 



I 



t 



,1 






' ., 



/i 



T 



.( 






X 
41 



is.j 



A 



1' 



1 



1 
I' 



t) 






4 



3 



1 



1 



THE NEW 

FAMILY RECEIPT-BOOK, 

CONtAINlNO EIGHT HUIVDBED 

TRULY VALUABLE RECEIPTS 

In rarious Branches ^ 

Sel^ted from 
^HE WORKS OF BRITISH AND FOREIGN WRITERS, 

OF U54)UESTlONAM.E EX^SAUSBTCX AKD AUTflORITT^ 

And from 

TH£ ATTS8TED COtfMITJriCATIONS OF BCIXaTTIFIC TRIXEBfi. 



« What lookest thou f 

GOOD LESSONS FOR TttEE, AND THY WIFfc 

Th€Q keep them in memorj fast, 

To help as a coiafort to Llfe.^^ Trtuer, 



A NEW EDITION, CORRECTED. 



NEW.HAVEN : 

« 

VUBI^ISHED BT HOWE k, SPAIiDINO, AND SAMUSZ. WA0^- 

WORTH. 



K19« 






1 






.i. H. Maltby fy Co, Printers. 



A 



*■ 



■ # 



k 



i^m^^(§m^ 



THE Collection of Domestic Receipts 
now presented to the public could not have 
been formed in any age but the present. 
ThQ wisdom of this age has been lo bring 
science from her heights down to the practi- 
cal knowliedge of every-day concerns ; and 
tbe number of its inventions and discoveries 
have kept pace with the increasing wants of 
man. Of the past we preserve what expe- 
rience has sanctioned, and what improve- 
ment has rendered more perfect; but we can 
add much, more from our own stores; Sci- 
entific men, in the present day, who choose 
to be useful as welf as celebrated, have stu- 
diously noticed facts, and formed discove- 
ries which can only be appreciated in the do- 
mestic circle ; they have written such Re- 
ceipts with the zeal which is felt by a good 
bi3Usewife-^an honest farmer-^an ingenious 



mechanic — and the various artizaiis of useful 
and ornamental trades. 

The Rditor of this CoHectton^ at a very dis- 
tant period, had amassed for his private use 
a number of practical Receipts ; but of late, 
the rapid diffusion of new discoveries, au- 
thenticated by the most respectable names, 
has been such^ that his collection grew eve- 
ry day in bulk and in value. He was proud 
to see, in a Family Receipt-Book,the names 
of persons eminent for their science. His 
Collection was further augmented by MSS. 
which he had purchased ; and he is particur 
larly obliged by the advice and aid he has 
derived fronp^ the niuch-respected Secretary 
of the Society of Arts^ Manufactures, and 
Commerce. 

The popular treatise on " Domestic Cook- 
ery," that admirable inti;oduction to the sci- 
ence, which Milton calls " household good,''' 
naturally connected itself in the Editor'a 
mind, with this volume^ to complete the^ 
economy of every domestic establishment. 
The idea of its publication arises merely from 
its obvious utility, and. the value of the ma- 
terials which compose the Collection. Of 
more than Eight Hundred Receipts, not ono^ 



pREFAca.. r; 

Bas been admitted, but which has either 
been experienced by himself or sanctioned 
bj the recommendation of friends, or can be 
authenticated by a respectable name. 

The general usefulness of this Work will 
probably recommend it to the favour and in- 
dulgence of its readers ; but the Editor and 
Publisher cannot relinquish a hope, that in- 
genious persons may be inclined to assist its 
improvement, by correcting any article 
which may be found to fail, or by suggesting 
a better one, and by the communication of 
new Receipts of real value. . 

The present Collection has been methodi- 
cally arranged ; so that, by the aid of the 
Analytical Table of Contents and copious 
Index (which are subjoined,) the reader may 
easily refer to any particular article. 

We conclude this Preface with the plain 
homely wx>rds of our honest predcfcessor, the 
venerable Tusser, in his " Five Hundred ; 
Points of Good Husbandry." 

(' What lookest thou ? speak at the last ? 

GOOD LESSONS FOR THEE, AND THY WIFJSL.^ 

Then keep thtjOi ia mprpory fast, - 

To. help as a coiurcrt.to Lite.". 



a2 



OF THIS 

VOLUME. 



Page^ 
SECt» h — Managemmt, fyc, ofthgSotlf ST 

IMfo^od of employing fallow grounds to^advantage^ ib. 

Advantage of plant iag wastelands with alder, 38 

To prevent TTiuch mischief to seav emhankmentB, o». 

tho86 of rivers^. S9 



Sect. II.' — Farm^Cjpces^ ib* 

Economy in thatchingf t6«. 

Curious mode of makinc eartheiLhftrn*il6ors, 40 

Toonake durable barn-floi>fg»r 4t 

V^irtues of poplar wood for floorinf^pranaries, , 4t 

Sect. Ill;— ffcrfer, ^ iL 

SasT method of obtainiAg^ water in almost an^ situation, ib. 
To keep pond$ and artificial^^^ieces of water cfree from> 

weeds,. ib. 

Method of dfaiQing ponds in Jevi^lgCOUiidBy, 43k 

Sact. rV; — Emces,. i^. 

To make a quickset hedge or fence,- ib. 

Ta train evergreen andfother hedges^ 44 

Sect. V. — T€a/m»^ . 4^ 

Great advantage of ploughing wi& oxen instead of 

horses, ib^ 

Useful hints relative to carters and teams of oxen, 4C 



viil. 



co^'TE^ryr 



Sect. VI. — Manures. 



Page>, 

47. 



Manure for clover, tft. 

Utility of pidgeon's dung as a manure, , ib. 

Composts for dunghills,. ib. 

Experiment tn manuring land, 48 
fc Dr. Taylor's method of ascertaining the qualities of marl- 

L kc. for agricultural purposes, 50 

I Sect. V^IL — CnH\we,^c. of Crops. 51 

Easy method oCdistovering whether seeds are ripe^ ih. 

To preserve seeds, when sown, from vermin, ib. 

Striped grass recommended for hay, ib» 

When to cut rye-gfass for hay, 52 

To prevent bay-stacks from taking iire, tfc. 

Methods of preventing smut in wheat, 53 

Steeps for wheat, barley, &.c. ih. 

Approved methods of sowing wheat to advantage, 54 

Utility of sowing buck-wheat, 55 

To keep crows from corn, {h. 

Proper soil for culture of turnips, 56 

Instructions for raising potatoes to advantage^ . ib. 

Preparation for carrots and other winged s^eds, 57 

Sect. VIIL — Preservatijonof Com and VegetaMes. ih. 

Important discovery relative to the preservation of corn, ih. 

To preserve conhtp stacks, 58 

To preserve oats from being musty, 59 

To destroy mites or weevils in granaries, - ibi 

To preserve carrots, parsnips and beets, all the winter, ib, 

T© preserve turnips from frost, 60 . 

Sect. IX.— Protecfton of growing Crops from 

thi Devastation of Vermin, CI 

Good effects of elder in preserving plants from flies and 

insects, ib. 

Use of sulphur in destroying insects on plants, and its 

benefit for vegetation, .. ib. 

To stop the ravages of- caterpillars on shrubs and veg- 
etables, 6S 

To prevent the increase of pismiresio grass-lands, new- 
ly laid down, 63 

Liiquor to destroy caterpillars and other inseotsj ib: 

To dfcstroy ants^ ih*. 



pOUtTEVM^ is. 



Page. 

To prevent the fly in titmips, 65 

To prevent the destruction of fiield-turnips by shi^ Uk 
For preventing ffies from destroying the seedling leaves 

of turnips^ £c. 64 

To prevent mice from destroying early sown p^t, ib. 

Sect. X, — JVeeds* 

Usefuteess of mowing, 6t> 

CHAPTER n.^-^yQUXG-^lSHOSTG. *• 

To preserve fishing rods, t&. 

To make quill-floats for fishing, C& 

Improved eork floats for fishing, 67 

Easy method of dying fishing^ lines,, tSv 

To prevent fishing lines from rotting^, t6. 

^o prevent taking eold while angling, ^. 
To improve the sport of angling, by attentTon to the 

dress, 68 

Rules for fly-fishing, t6. 

To intoxicate qnd take flsb» 6a 

CHAPTER lU.^USEJFUL ARTS. 7Q 

Beneficial purposes to which the juke of aloes may be 

applied, $(.. 
To bronze plaster figures^ ih. 
To blue mourning buckles, swords, See. 71 
Composition- to take offcasts of medals, ib. 
Metbod of sweeping chimnres, without employing chil- 
dren, ib. 
To clean feathers from animal oil, 72; 
To preserve the natural colour to petals of dried ftawers^ 73 
Art of gilding iron or steel, ib. 
Method of dry gilding, 74 
Composition lor gilding brass or s3ver, ih. 
To make shell-gold, iff' 
To clean gold, and restore its lustre, ib. 
To silver glass globes, 7» 
To cut glass, tft. 
Substitute for hemp and flax, * tb. 
To^ braze or solder pSteces of iron, 76 
Variousyikiethods or preserving iron and, steel d'tun rust> H. 
To soften ivory and nones, 77 
Us^ul hints to lamplighters, V^ 



eOSTE2»TE. 



Paire, 



Improved method of taking off impressions of leaves, 
plants^ kc. 

To obts)in the true shape and fibres of a leaf, 

To whiten linseed oil, 

To detect adulterations in lavender and all essential oils, 

To df'termine the exact time of noon, and to obtain a 
meridian line on a small scale, 

German method of making elm and maple wood resem- 
ble mahogany, 

Substitute for mahogany, 

To clarifj? and harden quills, 

Dutch method of preparing quills forwrittag, 

Substitute for curriers oil, ^ 

To repair roads near coal-mines, 

Substitute for soap. 

To extract starch irom horse-chesnuts, 

To dissolve wax in water, 

To make wafers^ 

CHAPTER rr.—BTRD CATCHWG. 

To make and use the best sort of bird-lime, 
Experienced method of catching larks, 

Cff AFTER Y .^BLEACHLXG^ 

Method of bleaching straw, 

Eflicacy of horse-chesautsin bleaching, 

To bleach bees'- wax. 



70 

79 
lb. 
«&. 

80 

81 
U2 
83 
t&. 
t&. 
84 
ih. 
86 
ih. 
37 

fh, 

ib. 
89 

90 

ih. 
t&. 

91 



CHAPTER VI.— BOOA'5. 

To extiact grease from the leaves of books, 
Method of cleaning dirty prints or books, 
To make book-binders paste, 
To marble books or paper, 



9^ 

ih. 
ih. 

ih. 



CHAPTER VU.—BiJEfr>7v*G AXD MAJSTAGEME^YT 

OF MALT Liq UORS. 94 

Precautions and. rules to bo observed in malting, ih. 

To extract the virtue of hops in brewing, 96 

Cheap and easy method of brewing, ih. 

Excellent and wholesome table-beer,, , 97 

Use of ground iv v in ale, il^. 

To make ginger-beer, ij. 



Pagt. 

To make yeast, or bartn, 9S 

Substitute for yeast, 16. 

Turkish manner of making yeast, 99 

Kasy method of preserving yeast, .«&. 

To make artificial yea»t,' i&. 

Usefulness of the hazel-nut in brewing; ] 00 

To extract the essence of malt for brewing, iL 

To prevent beer from growing fl&t, t6. 

To recover sour or stale beer, tfr. 

CHAPTER Yllh^BUtLDrnG. ti. 

Artificial stone iloors and coverings for houses, ib. 

To cure damp walls, lOS 

To increase the durability of tiles, tfr. 

Economical method of using tiles, 105 
To improve chimney iire-places, and augment the heat, i6. 

To cure smoky chimnies, ih. 
To preserve wood from catching fire, and also from 

decay, lOS 
Composition for preserving weather boarding, pal- 
ing, &LC. 107 
To prevent disagreeable smells from house-draina, 1 08 
Iniproved ventilators for rooms, ib. 
To preserve churches from dilapidation, 109 
To make red coral branches for embellishing grot- 
tos, il&C. lb. 

C H AFTER IX.— aiV.4ifir BIRDS. 

Breeding ^nd management of canary birds, 110 

CHAPTER JL— CATTLE. 1 14 

Sect.. I. — Food for Cattle ih. 

Everlasting pea, a valuable crop for cattle, ib. 

Scotch kale, excellent food for cattle, ib. 

Virtues of hay-tea for cattle, 115 

Preifitable way of fattening pigs, 116 

Sect. H. — Best method of feeding and manag" 

ing Cot»»> ib% 

On the great. increase of milk, by feedii% cows with 

santf&jn, 16. 

parsnips productive of milk in cows, 117 

Most proper food for mikh cows, ik- 



>. 



Additional quantity of milk to be gained b^ keeping 

milch cows in the house, 117 

To prevent cows from contracing bad habits while milk- 
ing, *^ 

Sect, Ul.-^Mana^eint'nt of Calves. 118 

TTo rear calves without milk, '^ *^» 

Hay-tea for calves, ^^^ 

Method of rearing calves, &cc. w. 

To prevent sickness in calves, 1^0 

Sect. IV.— fl#rw*. ^ 

Carrots, useful as food for horses^ f «** 

Benefit of furze, as winter food for horares, liai 

Sect. Y.^-Sheep, 12^ 

To mark sheep without injury to the wool, ih. 

To improve the wool of sneep by smearing, ih. 

Sect, Yl,— Diseases of CatUe and Shtep, ib* 

To preserve cattle from disease in the winter, ^ ih' 

To prevent the rot in sheep, 1S3 

Parsley, a preventive of the resp in sheep, t6. 

Cupe of the rat in sheep, ih. 

CHAPTER XL^CEMEMTS, lft4 

Admirable cement, or mortar, used on tiie Colswold- 

HiHs, *&• 

Useful property of com mon glue, 1 2d 

To make size from potatoes, *6« 

To make patent paste, »&• 

Excellent glue, ih. 

Parchment glue, 126 

liip glue for joining paper, silk, fee, ih. 

Common cement for joining alabaster, marble, &tc. 127 

Strong cement, ih. 

Fire-lute, 128 

Cold-lutes, iff- 

Cement for iron flues, ih. 

for repairing copper-boilers, 129 

To restore cast-iron furnaces, atciden tally cracked, , ih* 
Cement to resist the action of fire and water, ih. 
to resist moisture, 130 



COSl'fSTS. llli» 



Page. 
vTapanftse cement, or rice-glue, 130 
Turkey cement for joimDgmetak, glass, kc. Idl 
Cement for broken china, ib, 
1*0 stop cracks in glass vessels, 133 
Cement for preserving wood and brick, tb. 
for wood or paper, 1 34 

CHAPTER XIL— CLOTHES. xb. 

Receipts for blacking, 16. 135 

Easy method of cleaning boots and shoes in winter, so as 

to prevent soiling the peVson, house, Uc 136 

Chemical liquid for boot-tops, 137 

To clean boot-tops, or way tanneil leather, ib. 

^^ To prevent shoes from taking water, 138 

i To restore the lustre of tarn^hed gold or silver lace, tb. 

S To clean gilt buckles or toys, 139 

f Black varnish for old straw or chip hats, ih. 
L*: To prevent gentlemen's hats from being spotted after 

"^^ rain, Uf. 

K Preventives against the ravages diT the moth, 140 

t[ To purify wool infested with insects, 141 

l^ Chinese method of rendering cloth water-proof, ib. 
\}* New method of cleaning silks, cottons, and woollens, ib. 
■ To stop the rapidity of^meSy when tKefomale dres$ has 

oceidentaUy taken fire, 142 

To prevent clothes from catching fire, 143 

Permanent inks for marking linen, ib. 

To perfume iinen, 145 

To raise the pile of "velvet, when pressed down, ib. 

To prevent danger from wet clothes, %b. 

Useful hints relative to bedclothes, mattresses, S^c. t^ 

To clean silk stockings, 146 

Composition for restoring scorched linen, ib. 
Danger of putting spirits into boots or shoes, to prevent 

the effects of cold. 147 

CHAPTER XtlL^CURIOSITIES. 1 48 

Sir Ashton Lever's method of preserving animals, ib. 

Birds shot in this kingdoofi, 149 

B.u]e3 for collecting curiosities on sea voyages, ib, 

B 



Pagr. 
CHAPTER XIV.— JD^JRF. 14» 

Proper temperature for a dairy, i6. 

Rules for milking cows, 150 

To make excellent butter from the milk of cows fed on 

turnips, t&. 

ImproTed method of making4)utter, ib. 

Dr. Andeison's method of keeping milk and butter, 151 

CHAPTER XV,—DISTILLLJVG. 152 

A cheap refrigerator or condenser, t6. 

To try the purity of spirits, ift. 

To cure spirituous liquors^of aiiad flavour, ib^ 

To improve the smell and taste of spirits, 153 

Expeditious method of distilling simple waters, {b, 

CHAPTER Xyi.^DOMESTlC ECOjY- 

OMY. 155 

To purify infectious air in a room, ib, 

Portuguese manner of preserving fish and meat, ib. 
Various methods of preserving animal food sweet, 155, 

156, 157 

Useful properties of charcoal, 156 
To preserve water and meat from putrefaction on long 

voyages, 157 
To detect dampness in beds, 158 
Hints on warming beds, ib. 
Beef-tea, ib. 
Improved management of bees, 1 58, 1 59 
Chinese me&od of mending china, 160 
To^scover vitriol in beer, tL 
Excellent substitute for table-beer, tb. 
To malse good sprtice beer, ib, 
Substitute for yeast, 161 
To make bottles air-tight, ib. 
To loosen glass stopples of smelling-bottles and decan- 
ters, 162 'i 
Improved corks for preserving wine or chemical liquors, ib, t\ 
To judge the quality of wheaten flour, 62 . j 
To detect adulterations in flour or bread, 163, 164 
'To preserve biscuit from putrefaction, ib^ 
To preserve sea-bread from the weevil, t6. |[ 
To make artificial or potatoe bread, 165 
Bread made from the water-gladiole, ib. 



i 



r 



f 



coNTXNTa; XV, 

Pfige, 
PermerA for bread, used by the inhabitants of Long 

Island, in the state of New- York, 166 

New method of making flour without grain, i5. 

Improved method of salting batter and meat, 167 

Method of curing bad tub-butter, ' ib. 
3Iethod of taking the rankness and disagreeable taste 

from Irisli salt-butter, t6. 
To remove the taste of turnips from milk or butter, 168 
To make salt butter fresh . ib. 
Chick weed, tft. 
To prevent children from eating their food too quickly, 16S 
To prevent the formation of crust upon the inside of tea- 
kettles, W9 
To make chocolate from cocoa-nuts, {h. 
Coffee, ih. 
The virtues of coffee, 170 
Turkish or Arabian mode of preparing coffee,. t&. 
Cheap and valuable substitute for coflfee, 171 
£xcellent substitutes for coffee, t6. 
Acorn coffee, ih* 
For improving coffee, ih. 
To preserve eggs for a length of time, 173 
Best method of cleaning fine block-tin dish-covers, pa- 
tent pewter, &c. ih. 
Cleaning floor-clothsy ib. 
To clean gold and silver lace, 174 
To restore the lustre of glasses tarnished by age or acci- 
dent, ih. 
To clean flint-glass bottles, decanters, &c. &ic. ih. 
To clean majiogany furniture, ih. 
To clean Turkey carpets,^ ' 175 
To clean marble, ih. 
Anrother, ih. 
To clean alabaster or marble, ih. 
Mixture for cleaning stone-staire, hall-pavements, &cc. ib. 
The danger of children eating gilt-gingerbread, or any 

article covered with such a composition, 176 

Varnish for furniture, ih. 
German furniture gloss, or polishing wax for mahogany, 

&ic. ib. 

Method of cleaning and polishing rusty steel, 177 

Kasy method of cleaning paper-hangings, ib. 

To preserve metals from rust, 178 

£or cleaning steel or iron-polished stoves, . ih. 



To clear iron from rust, 17* 
Haw to judge the properties of nutmegs, ib* 

To take the smell of paint from rooms, ^ ib 

Method of making Stilton cheipse, ib. 

Colouring for cheese, ' 179 

To fatten poultry, ih^ 

A new method of rearing poultry to advantage ; com- 
municated by Mrs. D'Oyleyto the Society of Arts, 

&tc. 180- 

Method of expeditiously fattening chickens, 18£ 
Swedish method of raising turkies, ib. 

Method of fattening geese and ducks, 18& 

Rules for plucking geese, 184 
To improve the down of geese, ib. 

To ascertain the properties of goose down, ib^ 

To prevent inconvenience from perspiration of the 

hands, 185 
To purify lemon juice, ib. 

Every family to make their owa sweet oil, ib* 

To take mildew out of linen, . 186 

To make verjuice, ib. 

Method of making vinegar, ib. 

To make vinegar with the refuse of bee-hives after the 

honey is extracted, 187 
To strengthen vinegar, 18S 
Balsamic and anti-putrid tinegan^ ib. 
Gooseberry vinegar, %b^ 
To make primrose vinegAr, ih. 
Method oi rendering putrid water sweet,. 188 
To purl^ water for domestic and other purposes, 190 
To puri/y water for drinking, 191 
To purify the muddy water of rivers or pits, tb. 
Method of making putrid water sweet, in a night's time, ib. 
To prevent the freezing of water in pipes in tlie winter- 
time, 19£ 
Easy method of purifying water, ib. 
The best method of obtaining pure soft water, for me- 
dicinal purposes, withoutdistifling it, ih. 
To purify river, or any other muddy water, 193 
Warm water, ib. 
To make sea water fit for washing linen at sea, ib. 
Proper method of making toast and water, ib. 
To make a vessel for filtering water, 194 
The Turkish method of filtering water by ascension, 1 95 
To preserve lemon joice during a long voyage, t^. 



Method of preserving grapes, 196 
Siti^ular and simple manner of preserving apples fipom 

the effects of frost, in North America, ih. 

To keep oranges and lemons, 197 

New method of preserving potatoes, 1 9ft 

To preserve potatoes from the frost, ib. 

Method of recovering £n>8t?-bitten fruits and vegetables^ 1 99* 

To preserve apples, ib. 

Preservation or succulent plants-, 1 99 ' 

A method-of preserving fruit fresh all the year, tb» 
To preserve hazel nuts in great perfection for many 

months, 200* 

To manage ripe fruit for a desert, tfr. 

To 'preserve aromatics and other herbs, . ib. 

To preserve grapes till winter, 201 

Walnut ketchap, ib. 

To'cork and preserve cyder in bottles, • SOt 

To make excellent punch, ib. 
To make -a pleasant, sober, and. refreshmg drink for 

summer, .-, ib. 

To make the €lerman liquor, mum^ - «&. 
To make the celebrated eastern beverage called sher* 

bet,.* tOS 

Totnakebirch-tree.wlne, ib. 

Currant wine, t6. 

Elder wine, . S04 

Grape wine, ib. 

An excellent family wine, t6. 

To extract syrup from Indian com, . ftOft 

Excellent bitter for the stomach, t6. 

To detect sugar of lead in wines^ ib, 
A test, for discovering in wines, metals that are injari* 

ous to the health, 206 
Substitute for soap, easily prepared in small quantities. 

by private families in the country, . £07 

To make Jamaica vegetable soap, S09 

To make Lady Derby's soap, ib 

To'make British herb tea, £10 

British substitute for .foreign tea, t& 

Another, ' tA. 

Another,. ib. 

The virtues of sage, 2^^ 
To prevent excessive thirst, in cases of emergency at sea, 

in the summer time, i^> 



XVUI. 

Page. 
Haoner of preserving e^s perfectfejr frei^ £[>r twelve 

months, £12 

Another, MS 

Cream preserved in long voyages,. ' ib. 

Substitute for human milk, iw^bere, 'from (any circum- 
stances, it cannot be piHMsuredim' children, ib. 
To make old man^s milk : a nutriiuDus and pleasant 

beverage, td« 

To 'make artificial asses' milk,. dill 

To prevent disagreeable smells from .pmies, night- 
chairs, :ke. ' ib^ 
To free molasses from their sharp taste, and to render 

them fit to be used instead of sugar^ «&« 

To destroy bugs, £15^ 

Another, £18. 

Economy in fuel, £17 

Another method, £1 8 

Economy in tinder,. & 

Plate-powder, id. 

Usefulness of clivers, or goose> grass, £1 9 

Important use of the leaves of the vine^ «6. 

y aluabie properties of cherry-tree ^gam, ib^ 

Valuable properties of the helianthus annuus^ or sun- 
flower, - ib: 
Remedies against fleas,. ££0 
Fly-water, t6. 
To make a wholesome food of cashew nuts,. ib*. 
Economy in candles, ib», 
Curious small cakes of incense for perfnmmg apfltrt- 

•ments," ££1 

To prevent the disagreeable smell ftHsing from house 

drains^ ,ib^^ 

Polished ^a-urns preferable to varnished ones, t5. 

Management of ra«or-straps, $S^ 

Essence of soap £&y shaving or washing, hands^ ib. 

Composition for slaving, without the uscv of razor, soap, 

or water, ib. 

To prevent accidents from leaving a poker in the fire, i££S 
Sconomical mode of cutting cauliflower, ib, 

B«bstitute for milk or cream, £24 

Necessary hints to those who use copper vessels for cu- 
linary purposes, ib^. 
To prevent lamps from being pernicious to asthmatic 
persons, or others, liable to complaints of the cbeet^ ^i 



f 



Page. 
To make eeonomlcal wicks for lamps^ d-p* 

Useful properties of ceiandme, t6. 

^Economical use of roots of trees, ib, 

AppUcatioD of the roots of fir-trees or pines, SS8 

Useful pvckperties ^of red spurge, ib^ 

Paste or food for singing-birds, superior to the German 
jpaste in common use^ 227. 

CHAPTER XVlt^mUfrLVG. i5. 

To nmke transparent paper for drawing, 16. 

To trace drawings or prints against the lights ^8 

Method of using tracing paper^ ib. 

To copy drawings, kc. with fixed materials^ t6. 

To transfer any impressiop .with vermilion, ^» 

Transparent paper, t5. 

Method of copying a design, * id. 

To preserve pencil and ciiatk drawings, ib^ 

Method of setting pencil.dra wings, £30^ 
Wash for preserving drawings, made with a black-leiid 

pencil, or with hard black chalk, t&. 
Easy method of taking off a periect copy of a print or 

drawing, ib^ 

To make a drawing desk or frame, £31: 

CHAPTER xyuL^DROfFJsrvsrG. aSft 

Method of rendering assistance to persons in danger of 

drowning, ih 

Method of recovering persons apparently drowned^ as 



rering ] 
by the 



recommend<^d by the Humane Society, £83 

CHAPTER XlX.^DYEWO. ib. 

To make a Uquid for stainirvg bone or wood of different 

colours, ib. 

Art of dyeiog or staining lea tb or cloves, to resemble the 

beautiful York tan, Lunerick dye, &.G. 334 

To stain wdod a fine bljick, ib. 

To stain wood a beautiful red or mahogany colour, ib. 

To make nankeen dye, £35 

To dye cotton a fine bufi" colour, ib. 

Substitute for galls in dyeing, and also in making ink, ib. 

Easy method of dyeing yellow or green, £36. 

To, stain wood green, ifr». 



Page. 
To ^tain faorn to imitate tortoise shell, S36' 

Subi«titute for verdigris in dyeing black, 237 

Another substitute lor verdigris, 29S 

CHAPTER XX,—PLEASWG EXPERIMENTS. 239 

To produce gas light on a smaH scale., ih. 

The phosphoric pencil, ti. 

The fire-bottle, f6. 

To make the phosphoric match-bottle, t6.. 

To make an illuminated or phosphoric bottle, which will 

preserve its light for several months, 240 

To take impressioos on paper from designs made on 

stone, ih. 

A cheap and simple process for painting on glass, suffi- 
cient for the purpose of making a magic lanthorn, 241 

To make transparent screen:), for the exhibition of the 

phantasmagoria, %b. 

Thunder pawder, t6, 

CHAPTER XXX,—Fj1RRIERY. 242. 

A receipt for the cholic in a horse, i6. 

Distemper in dogs, tliw' 

To know whether a dog is mad or not, ib. 

CPAPTER XXIL—F/RET^ 245 

Method of extinguishing fires in chimnies, %b. 

To extricate horses from fire, ik^ 

Method of rendering ail sorts of paper, linen,, and cotton 

less combustible, 244 

To prevent wood, Jinen, &ic. from catching ^re^ ib. 

Me i hod to escape froiri fire, ib. 

To make water m(»re i flicacious in extinguishing fires, 245 
To extinguish fires speedily, ib. 

Hint respecting tvomen's and children's clothes catching 

fire, ib. 

To stop the progress of fire on board of ships, 248, 

CHAPTER XXUL—FIBE-JJiMS (JIND THE MA- 

NJGBMEJVT OF GUNPOWDER:) 247. 

I 

1^ To hrown gun-ba«rels, ib. 

\' Xo J^eep arms and polished metals from rust, i&^ 



Pagt. 

To prevent humidity from being prejudicial to powder 
magazines, 2*7 

To recover damaged gunpowder, 248 

To increase the force of gunpowder, i6. 

Method ofincreasing the efifrets of gunpowder, and also 
shewing the necessity of certaiu precautions in load- 
ing fire-arms, {b\ 

CHAPTER XXIV.— iVKiS. fKORKS. 449 

To make sky-rockets, ib. 

Improvement in dre-workfli A50 

CHAPTER XXV-^GWRDiyvXYG— JBOT^IAT. 

Sect. I. — Management of Green-kousey Sfc> ib. 

Proper situation for a green-house, or room, Hh 

To air plants, and ventilate rooms wlierein they are con^ 
tained, i^ 

Sect. ILr—SeedSy S51 

£asy method of discovering whether or not seeds are 
sufficiently ripe, t5. 

On preserving seeds of plants in a state fit for vegeta- 
tion, %b. 

To facilitate the growth oC foreign seeds, £5S 

Sect, ni, — Matutgement of Garden Borders* • ib» 

To plant and make edgings, t&. 

How to cut box -edgings, ib» 

A sure method of curing gravel- walks, S59 

Sect. IV. — Cidture and Mancigementof Flowen, . %b. 

Proper method of laying carnations, ib. 

Plants watered by being praced in dishes, improper, 256 

When to plant annual and perennial flowers, ib. 

To remove herbs and flowers in the summer, 257 

Method of growing flowers and fruits during winter, ib. 
To preserve delicate young shoots of flowers from slug^ 

and earwigs, tb. 

Virtues of the sun-flower 258 

To preserve flower-seed* ^"i. 



< 



xxii. eOATEATS. 



Page, 
Sect. V. — Culture and Treatment of Fruit-Trees 
and Shrubs 258 

To prevent blossom and fruit-trees from being damaged 

by early spring frost. ib- 

Cbiriese mode of propagating fruit-trees 209 

To improve fruit-trees by attention to the colour of the 

soii'' ih. 

To increase the growth in trees -GO 

To prevent hares and rabbits from barking young plan- 
tations ih» 
Bad effects of iron nails, kc. on fruit-trees, or mischie- 
vous effects of iron nails in conjunction t\ ith branch- 
es of fruit-trees 261 
To destroy moss on trees ib. 
Necessity of taking off superfluous suckers from shrubs ih 
To cure the disease in apple trees ?&. 
To cure the canker in trees 2G2 
A method of curing fruit trees infected with an easterly 

blight ih. 

Experienced method of healing w^ounds in trees 2C.i 

Composition for healing wounds in trees ib. 

To prune wall fruit ib. 

To prune vines to advantage £64 

The most proper time when leaves of trees ought to be 
collected for pharmaceutical and economical pur- 
poses il. 

Sect.' VI. — Culture and Management of Garden Crops, ib. 

To propagate herbs by slips and cuttings ib. 

New method of rendering asparagus more productive, 
and of producing it in every month in the year 265 

To raise eapsicums, and make Cayenne pepper 206 

New method of raising cucumbers 267 

To prevent the irregular growth of melons 26U 

Easy method of producing mushrooms ib. 

To obtain a good crop of onions ib. 

The advantage of sowing peas in circles instead of straight 
rows ib. 

To raise poas in autumn, and to prevent mice from eat- 
ing them when sown 260 

Metliod of cultivating radishes for salad, so as to have 
them ready at all seasons of the year 270 



71 

1 1 

I a 



I 



r 

I 



t 



•coyxEKTi. xxiu. 

Page, 

To preserve strawbeiry plants from the heat of the sun, 

&c. 271 

Directions for managing strain berries in summer ib. 

To cultiTs^e the common garden rhubarb SLIU 

Method of cultivating and curing Turkey rhubarb from 

seed 273 

Cultivation of Turkey rhubarb by offsets 274 

Method of curing rhubarb ib. 

Proper soil for the culture of of turnips ^ ib. 

Preservation of succulent plants S75 

Various useful properties of tobacco to gardeners ib. 



CHAPTER XXVI.— HE^irif. 277 

Sect. I. — General rules for the Preservation of Health, ib^ 

Avoid, as much as possible, Jiving near churchyards t^. 

Valuable concise rules for preserving health in winter ib. 

Cautions in visiting sick rooms 278 

Preventive of autumnal rheumatisms ^6« 

To promote sleep ib. 

The use of tar-water in expanding the lungs of public 

speakers, &&c. 279 

German method of preventing hysterics ib, 

4 Hints for ventilating stage-coaches ib. 

Best mode of avoiding the fatal accidents of open car- 

;* riages 280 

Ir To fumigate foul rooms ib. 

L To make a truly valuable fumigation powder ib. 

; To make balsamic and anti-putrid vinegar 281 



Sect. II.— On the Eye. 283 

General rules for the choice of spectacles, and for the 

preservation of the sight ib. 

Of preservers, and rule for the preservation of sight £83 

Comfort for those nearly blind 286 

To cure a bruise in the eye 287 

Sect. III. — Jlntidotes to noxious Substances and •Animals, ib. 

To prevent the effects of poison of lead on painters, gla- 
ziers, &&C. ib. 
To prevent the baneful effects of burning charcoal 288 
To prevent the mischief arising from the bite of a mad 
dog ib. 



To prevent death from the bite of venomous ftnimals £80 

To counteract the baneful effects of poison t&» 

Cure for the poison of the deadly night-shade -290 

Sect. IV. — Managtment fye. of the TeeUi. tfr. 

Method of causing children to cut their teeth easily ih» 

RiQes for the preservation of the teeth and gums S291 

To prevent the tooth-ache ib. 
Easy) safe, and pleasant method of removing tartar from 

the teeth . 292 

Tincture for the teeth and gums tb. 

Tooth-powder 293 

Another t^ 

Sect. V. — Remedies for Vurious local Affections, ifr. 

Easy and almost instantaneous cure for the ague ib. 

M. nomassel's account of his cure for burns or scalds ib. 

Remedy for burns 294 

Another ib. 

Efficacy of vinegar in -curing burns and scalds ib. 

Porter plaster for bruises 295 

Easy method of attractmg earwigs from the ear t6. 
To Kill earwigs or other insects, which may accidentally 

have crept into the ear ib. 

For a pain in the ear ib. 

Remedy for deafness 296 

For chilblains ib* 

To prevent corns from growing on the feet ib. 

Cure for warts ib. 

Court plaster ib. 

Certain cure for the cramp 297 

Simple remedy for the cure of lameness by contraction ib. 
To make cliver, or goose grass ointment, remarkable for 

Its salutary effects in teases of inveterate scurvy 298 

Easy method of curing the sea scurvy ib. 
Method for the speedy recovery of the use of the foot or 

hand that has been violently sprained 299 

Vo alleviate the pain occasioned by the sting of gnats S09 
Simple and effectual cure for those who may have acci- 

dently swallowed a wasp ib. 

To <cure the sting of a wAsp or bee iK 

Another ib. 

Another ib. 

Another 301 



COSTKlWif^ 



*»XT, 



^o preveat sea sickness, IIO) 

Remedy for a sore throat, tfr. 

A comnion drink for a sore throat, ^S 

Gargte for a sore throat, «&• 

A receipt for a cough, i^. 

An excellent styptic, t^^ 

A "hew «od useful styptFc, {5. 

"infalfible remedy for stopping bleeding of the no^^ 809 

For curing worms in the human body, %B, 

To make an Improved tincture of bark, 904 

ObsenrattODs on leeches, and their use, i5. 

Slogularhr useful properties of garlic, S07 

The usefulness of two common plants, 908 

CHAPTER XXVIL— /AX ^. 

m 

To make ink, ib» 

To make one gallon of black writing ink, 309 

lEte'dink, i5. 

To preyeht ink from motilding, 310 

To make Indian ink, ib. 

To make' China ink, ib. 

Substitute for Indian ink, zh, 

Oerman black for printers, 311 

Permanent writing ink, ib. 

Permanent red ink for marking linen, ' 312 

To make sympathetic or invisible ink, ib» 
To make stuchum, or perpetual ink of the ancients, for 

writing on stone, 313 

CHAPTER XXVltL-'PaiJSrr-^PAUrPlJSrGS'-' 

MAJSTAGEMENT OF COLOURS. ib. 

Directions for painting rooms, rails, he cSu 
To prepare drying oil and paint, idw 
For the second priming, ^ 314 
To' make putty and finish pamting, ^ . ib. 
To prepare bluexolour froih verdigris, ib. 
Liead-coloured p&int for preserving iron, ib. 
Method of preparing a cheap substitute for oil paint, as 
durible as that prepared with oil, -and free from any 
bad smell, 315 
Ch^p black .paidts from ciii>thy and Kilneral sub- 
stances, ihi 
To make brc^tvn i^aiat ib> 



Composition for preeerving weather-boarding, P*^teg> 
ana all other works liable to be injured by the wea- 
ther, ' 316 
To prepare the beautiful colour ca1l4sd Naples yellow, 817 
Another method, t6» 
Mrs. Hooker's method of preparing and applying a 
•composition for painting in imitation of the ancient * 
Grecian manner, ' Sl^ 
To clean oil paintipgs, 32^ 
To take off, mstantly, a eopy froi9ii a jprirrt or pieture, iB. 
To clean and whiten pnata or engravings, t&. 
To make mezzotintos, • 99B 
To judge of tsansparant c61oars fbr. patntbg, S24 
To prepare ivory leaves for miniature painters, ib. 
How to stencil, or multiply patterns, for working mus- 
lins, &&c. ih. 
To stain paper or parthment yellow, ib. 
To stain paper or parchment crimson, SS& 
To stain paper or parchment green, ib* 

CHAFTERXXm.^PJEEFUMES^COSJmTlCS. tb. 



To make an excellent smelling-bottle. 

To make jessamine butter or,pomatui99 3^ 

To make milk of roses, ib* 

Wash for the &kin, ib. 

Method of extracting etsendes frcoU' fimrersi, t6w 
To matke the quintttsseaee of lavender, Hsr other afamat- 

ic herb, $t7 

To obtain aromatic oils ^om the pellicle^ which «nve- • 
* lopes the seeds ofihd laurus sassafras, anellaurus ben- 
zoin, »&« 

^ To preserve aromatic and other herbs, 3^ 

Xiavender water, ib. 

Another, r&« 

To mak^»i!Ose water, ^39 

'To make eau de luce, and its use, ib. 

To make Hunigary water, ^ i&» 

To m^e otto (or odour) of roses, ib. 

To make lip salve, 330 

To mal» the celebrated pomade divine, 331 

To make soft pomatum, ib* 

To make hara pomatitmi . ib* 

d^cnuine Windsor soap, ih, 

y:o prepare aromatic viii(Bgar» . >3dS 



COKTXITTS. XWJ. 

Saseace of soap for sbafin^or washing htfnds, ddS* 

To increase the growth of hair, 335 

To ktiow whether hair-powder is adulterated with 

lime, • il 

rpo per fume hair- powder, it?! 

Preparation of the Greek-water (or the solution of sil- 
ver, for the converting red or Kght-eoloured hair inte 
a deep brown), (k, 

A-more convenient dye for thehair^ QSli 

GHAPTBR XXK^^RATSL 896 

To destroy rats and other Tenniii, %k. 
Another method.t>f destroying rats, ib, 
TPo destroy rats OF mice, i^. 
A. mouse-trap, by which forty or fifty mke may be 
. caught in a night, ih. 
New, simple, and effectual method of destroying rats, Sd7 
I>r. Taylor's cheap and efficacious method of destroy- 
ing rats, i5. 
To prevent the burrowlo^ of rats ia houses, Sd^ 

CHAPTER XXXI.— SPOTSr OR STAIJSrS, 340 

To make portable balls, for removing «pots &om clothes 

in general, ih. 

The fumes of brimsloDe' useful io removing spots or 

stains in linen, Ue, H. 

To remove spots of j^rease from paper, t£. 

Substitute for salt of serrelj for removing inkspots and 

iron-moulds, S41 

Bxpeditious method of taking out stains from scarlet, 

or velvet of any other colour,. i&. 

To take spots effectually out of siBc, linen, or woolten, ib. 
To take the stains of grease from woollen or silk, ib^ 

Basyand safe method. of discharging grease spots from 

woollen clothSf 842 

To take out spots ef ink, ib. 

To takeiron-iBouldsoutoflineo^ . »6. 

To iake out spots on silk, ih. 

To take wax out of velvet of all colours, except orlm- 

son, ib. 

Process for preparing nitrous acid for extracting, stams, 

Su;. from tanned leather, 843 

^ oxtract grease spots from, papj^fy ^15 



xviii. C9VtmiX'^* 

To remove spots of grease from books and prints, 349 
To take spots out of cloths, stuffs, silk, cotton, and linen^ 344 

{leiuedy against the effects of ink, w hen j ust spilled, d4& 

CHAPTER XXXlh—TIMBJER. S4a 

To promote the growth of forest trees, ' tfc. 

White- washing the trunks of trees recommended, «fr. 

To cure wounds in trees, 84T 
Mr. Forsyth's method of curing injuries and defects in 

fruit and forest trees, ih* 
To preserve wood in damp situations, . ^ S49 
Cause and preveation of the dry rot, Sd(^ 
Cure for the dry rot in timber, so as to make it indes- 
tructible by water, tbt 
Method of trying the goodness of timber for ship-bui'ld- 

ing, used in the arsenal at Vienna, t&.. 
To season and render green timJi)er immediately lit for 

use^. i^ 

CHAPTER XXXUI.— r^/2A75ifJE:S. S5» 

Observations on varnishes, ib^. 

General observations on making varnishes of aU kinds, 8d^ 

Of varnishes with ^irit of winej 35 d^ 

Colourless spirit varnish of mastic ar>d sandarac, t^« 

Varnish for violins and niusiealinstrnments, iff* 

Gold-colour varnish, 357 

General observatioivs on ppirit van)ish&», ib'.' 

Oil varnishes, S5^ 

Copal varnish^ 359 

Another, t5* 

Another, . ib. 

Gold-colour varnibh or lacquer, 36(K 

Black japan, - ib. 

(^ommoa viirnlsh, * ib« 

Varaishes with turpentine alone,. tb^ 

Common turpentine varnish, ib, 

Klasric gum varnish, S61 

Varnishes of gums, ib. 

Martin's copal varnish, ib* 

Amber varnish, S695 

Varnish for <;oloured drawings and prints, ibt 

To varnish i)laster casts or models, i6, 

iAetiierway, 36d 



t 



coxTSirw: x:u«. 



Page. 

Varuisli for earthenware, 36 S 

French soft varnish for engravers, ih. 

Varnish for furniture, xK 

A varuish for toilet-boxes, cases, fans, -be. t6. 

Preparation of the troe copal varnish, 364 

To make varnish for oil paintings, Uf. 

To make white varnish, ih. 

Another, bv Dr. Withering, ih. 

A varnish ^r preserving insects, fruits, Sic. 36(^ 

Method of [M«paring li nseed-oil- varnish-, tfr.' 

Varnish for pales and' coarse wood'^worJt, 869 

To make gold varnish, S67 

Varnish for drawings, prints, ficc. bcv 068 

To make a lacquer for brass, i6. 

To. make Chinese varnish, 969^ 
Varnish to prevent the rays of the 8UD from passing 

through the glassea of windows, t& 
Seed-lac vamisn, ' t6. 

Sbell-lac varnish^ «6* 

CHAPTER XXKW, -^EFFICACIOUS' REMEDIES 
FOR DESTROYU^Q VERMIIA JTO 

Te-destroy ants^ tftv 

Another, ^ ti. 

To destroy beetles, • f 5. 

Another method, «6. 

Fm- destroying bugs and worms in wood, 37 1 

To drive away crickets, t6*" 

To destroy crickets, * i^ 

Methods of stopping the ravages of the caterpitlars from 

shrubs, plants, and vegetables, ih: 

Liquor for destroying caterpillars, ants, and other in- 
sects, 372 
For destroying caterpillars on 'gooseberry bushes, i6. 
To preserve flowers, leaves, and fruits from caterpillars, 373 
Method to destroy or dme aw»y earth-worms, and 

other insects, hurtful to fields and garden?, 371- 

To destroy ear- wigs and woad-lice,^ ti&. 

Remedies against fleas 375. 

To destroy fleas on dogs, ib» 

To clear gardens of vermin by ducks, • if** 

The use of garlic agninst moles, grube, and snails, t&. 

The use of sulphur in destroying insects on plants, and? 
' itsi benefit for vegetation, 37ft 



Method of destroying Insects on fruit-trees, 576 

To de»tr6y»insects prejudiciiil to appje treesj 577 

To destroy insects on fruit-trees, ih. 

To kill reptiles, 378 

To prevent slugs getting into fruit-trees, ib» 

To destroy snails and the red spider,.. ih^ 

•^ vermin, S7^ 

insects on wall fruit-trees,. tM 

wasps and hornets, tfr. 

-^ worms in gardens, &tc. ' 383. 

Uiiefuiaess of the wren in destroying inBCctsr ih^ 

^ CHAPTER XXXV.~»WTJBA ssa 

To make artificial sea-water, ih^ 

To disperse noxious vapours from wells^ S84~ 

CPAPTER XXXVI.—rfJV!EiS. 385^ 

rCo make British Champagne^ t&. - 

koumiss (a Tartar wihej, i6. 

— ^ '\ orange wine, 38 6 

-^»t< excellent American wine» %h% 

CHAPTER XXXVIL—fra/TIYG. 908 

Secret methods of writing, ih, 38 Q 
To write blue and red letters at once with the same ink 

and pen, and on the same papery ih, 
ISo. write different colours on toe same pafier with the 

juice of violets, 390. 
To write in the dark, as straight as by day or candle- 
light, ih. 
To form letters ol gold on paper, and for ornaments of 

writing, ih. 
Method ot copying letters without the uee of a copying 

machine, 591 
To make durable writing^ on pafier, ih. 
To preserve letters from beiug opened, t5.* 
To take out writing, 392 
Method of recovering the legibility of decayed writ- 
ings, ih. 
To revive old writins;s which are almost de&ced, 399 
To gild letters on vellum or paper, t6* . 
To make pounce, 394 
Method of obtaining exact copies of inscriptioo9y i&^. 



>C09rTX2rTf. txx%. 



CHAPTER XXXYm.^MISCELL.WEOVS ME' 

CEIPTS. 30lr 

To make exceRent ink, i^ 

Qnicksilirer,- 896 
To revive a du]l fire, ib, 

Sma]] pox, ib, 

AgatDst the blatta or eock-roaehes, 897 
Coras and warts, K. 

To destroy snails aiid slugs, tk 

^o prevent paper from sinking, ifiu 

To Tiarden plaster of Paris or casts, tfr. 

To change hair to a deep brown, ib. 

Pearl-white, * 89S 

To detect copper in liquids, ib. 

To take off a gold ring, sticking tight oo ji finger, ib. 

To detect the mixtui e of arsenic, ib, 

?Fo tr^ the purity of spirits, t&. 

To raise a salad quickly, ib. 

To destroy .grubs, i^ 

Remedy for burns or scalds, 899 
A corn plaster, ib. 

To keep off files, ib. 

For preserving the nails, ih. 

To take away^superfiuous hair, ib. 

To make pbosphoros, ih. 

To.dischaicge grease from leather, 400 
'To prevent wounds from mortifying, ib. 

To discharge grease from paper, tb. 

Substitute for flax, ib. 

'Economical use of nutmeits, 401 

To ascertain the quality of nutmegs, ■ ib. 

To increase the durability of tiles, M0£ 

To prevent brass^essels from contracting rerdi^s^ ' «6. 
Improved mode of preserving flowers, t6. 

VaDherman's durable white paint, t5. 

Useful knife^oafd, -408 

To cure chapped or sore lips, *Uf, 
To mark sheep without ininry to the woolf t&. 

' To promote the grovflh of hair, 404 
To fatten Turkies as they^do in Norfolk* ^» 

To judge of the weather, ibs 

Sul>stitutefof ^ease foreoachMirheels, 405 

£jDC£t!leiit vftiwsh for jjmbreliasy -^ib. 



V 



N 



F 

<. 



COLLECTIO 



^ 



OP 



mE(Qwiw^^ 



CHAPTER I. 



SECT. I.— MANAGEMENT, feci. OF THE SOIL. 

i • Method of employing Fallow Grounds to advantage • 

I PLANTED on about half an acre of fallow, of 
an indifferent quality, the soil inclining to sand, 
5oine potatoes in straight lines, two feet asunder, 
and the plants forty inches distant in the rows, 
ploughing the intervals three time* in the summer^ 
that is to say every six weeks. 

The plough that was used was very light, and 
without wheels, and with two horses going one be- 
fore; the other; it was easy to draw two furrows, 
about five inches deep, without much damaging the 
roots. 

My workman, at first, smiled at my attempt : the 
potatoes sprouted but slowly, and did not seem to 
promise any great success ; but after the first plough- 
ing they got forward 5 and after the other two plough- 
linffs were, to the full, as forward as those of my 
meigbboars, which had been plentifully dunged*- 



BB AGRICULTURE. 

^FinBlly, ofterine third ploughing, every one was 
^astonished to see that the stalks of my potatoe^^ 
which had not been at all d^inged, were fresh and 
^reen, when the stalks of others, which had been 
jdunged, were turned yellow, withered and almost 
dry. 

In a word, this piece of ground yielded me in au- 
tumn half as many |)otatoes as the same quantity of 
land would have done in the ordinary method of 
planting, and these were all of a delicious flavour. 

Remark, — Potatoes, however, are known to be ^ 
scourging crop : they require as much dung, or (if 
it be withheld) will impoverish the ground as much 
as a crop of oats. By putting straw into the fur- 
rows, where the roots are dropped, or even by keep- 
ing the earth loose by frequent stirring, a tolerable 
crop of potatoes may often be raised, without dung ; 
but more injury is done to the ground than the va- 
lue of the crop of potatoes will repay. 

% Advantages of planting Waste Lands with Alder. 

Alder thrives wonderfully in ^wampy grounds, 
and its uses are so various as to adapt it to an al- 
'inost endless variety of purposes* The wood of 
ihis tree is in great esteem and demand for machine- 
ry ; the cogs for mill wheels formed of it being pro- 
ved, by experience, to be superior to any oth^jr. — 
It is commonly used for bobbins ; and the coutitry 
people [in England] wear shoes, or, as they are ge- 
nerally termed, clogs, made of it. Its excellent 
quality of resisting injury from water is universally 
acknowledged: beqce its great value for pump- 
treeSi pipes, drains, <:onduits to reservoirs, piles 
under water, and all kinds of wood work which are 
kept constantly wet. It is much to he lamented, 
Ihal th^ vaJui^blQ prop^tidf^ oS Its bairk should t^ 



a 



SrANAGTiillENT OF TBlT SOIL. 39^ 

SO little known, that in most instances it is buried 
with the tree. The black dyers of cotton staiSs* 
Icnow its value^ and make much nse of it. They 
purchase it at the rate of seven fb eight-pence the 
stone, laid down at their dye-houses. It is not chop- 
ped, but sold as it is stripped from the tree, after- 
it has become moderately dry; so that there is oa' 
expense in chopping ami cleaning it, as is the case 
with oak bark. It might be used to great advan>- 
tHge as an excellent substitute for many woods ased 
in dying, which we have from abroad, and on which 
we expend considerable sums. 

3.- To prevent much mischief to Sea EmbankmentSj 

or those of Rivers* 

Where a breach is actually made therein, it may 
be prevented from increasing in width, by an early 
application of old sails, fastened to each side of the 
breach where the water enters, which will allow 
the water to slide over theip, and hinder more of 
the earth from being carried away. 



SECT. II.— FARM OFFICES. 

4i Useful Hlnt^ wkerebt/ Farmers may make a hav- 
ing in the article of Thatching. 

The barns and tenements of many farmers hold- 
ing on lease, and obliged to repair, being thatched, 
and sudden winds sometimes making much thatch- 
ing necessary, farmers would do well to make a rick 
of wheat straw, except it happens to be very short, 
atid then they would keep their stack two years, 
and make a new one the second. 

The author of this article says, that though he not 
only ricks his straw, but slightly thatches his rick- 



40 AGRICULTU]»E. 

to keep out the weather, he has, in ten years, gain- 
ed 53/. by the practice, beside what he saved hf 
not being obliged to thrash wheat for straw at an 
^proper season* 

4« Curious mode of making Earthen Bam Floors* 

Many of the bams in the Cotswold Hills, orWolda 
of Gloucestershire, have a species of earthen floor, 
'^hich is generally thought to surpass floors of stone 
or any other material, except sound oak plank. — 
Their jsuperior excellence iS partly owing to the 
materials of which they are composed, and partly 
tfi the method of using them for this purpose. The 
materials are equal parts of a kind of ordinary gra- 
vel, the calcareous earth of the subsoil, as found ia 
different parts of these hills, and the chippings of 
free-stone, or calcareous granite, from the free-stone 
(Quarries. The principle of making these floors is, 
perhaps, at least in Great-Britain, peculiar to these 
hills. In other parts of the united kingdom, earth- 
en barn floors are always made with wet materials, 
a kind of mortar, which is liable to crack as it dries^ 
and which requires drying for some months after 
being made, before it grows hard enougji for use. 
Here, on the contrary, tne materials are worked dry;- 
of course they do not crack, and are ready for use 
immediately on their being finished. The process 
commences by mixing the above materials together 
in equal quantities, and twice sifting them : the first 
time, through a wide sieve, to catch the stones and 
larger gravel, which are thrown to the bottom of the 
floor ; the next, through a finer sieve, to separate 
the more earthy parts fron^ the finer gravel, which 
is spread on the stones. Above that are then regu- 
larly* distributed the more earthy parts ; trimming 
down, closely and firmly on each other, the differ- 
ent layers, and making the whole about a foot i« 



r 



FARM-OrrlCEd. 4t 

thickness* The surface beinz levelled, is- next 
beaten with a flat wooden beede, made like a gar- 
dener's turf beater, till the floor becomes as haro as 
stone, and rings at every stroke like metal. These 
floors are extremely lasting ; being equally proof 
against the besom and the flail. The materials, it 
is true, cannot be procured in many districts ; bat, 
the principle of making barn floors with dry mate«* 
rials being kept in view, other substances may, on 
a fair trial, be* found to answer the same purpose* 
This practice of hardening earthen floors, &c. by 
excessive beating, is practised in several parts of 
the world ; and in the kingdom of Naples, as well 
a^ in the island of Malta, where the tops of the hou- 
ses are constantly flat, the cement of which they 
are composed, though sprinkled with water, in that 
warm climate, is rendered sa hard and dry, as well 
as so compact, smooth and even, by continued beat- 
ing, that the rain is. carried ofi*from them with the 
. same freedom as from any flat leiidcn or copper roof^ 
without being at all subject to any sort of corrosion. 
The lime ash floors, in Devonshire, made of the 
refuse of the lime kilns, and ash of the Welch stona 
coal, with which the lime-stone is burned, are of at 
similar kind. . 

6.'- To make durable Barn Floors, . 

A durable barn -floor may be made of well-burnt> 
polished brick on edge, placed in the herring-bone 
form, on a pavement of stone three inches and a 
hSiIf in thickness ; or oaken plank two inches and a 
half inihickness ; or even of well-tempered indura- 
ted loam, of a f»t>per substance, not less than eight 
inches, and laid upon dry materials, or bottom. — 
Any of them will make a durable barn floor, provi-* 
ded it is kept free from wet, waggoiC wheels, and' 
lK>i:?es feet. The best thrashing floor for small hsms^- 

D 2 



1 

I 



42 AGRICUtTUREt 

of 150 acres, is made of soand ptank. In larger 
farms (say 300 acres dnd upward) the thrashing ma* 
chine should supersede the flail. 

7. The Virtues of Poplar Wood for the flooring of 

Granaries* 

The Lombard poplar is recommended as a timber 
adapted for flooring granaries, which is said to pre- 
vent the destruction of corn by wevils and insects^ 
Poplar wood will not easily take fir^« 



"f— ^■^■^i^^"*" 



SECT. III.— WATER. 

8* Easy Method of obtaining Water in almost any 

situation. 

The ground must be perforated by a borer* In 
the perKwration is placed a w^ooden pipe, which is. 
driven down with a mallet, after which the boring 
is continued^ that the pipe ciay be driven still far- 
ther. In proportion as the cavity of the borer be-^ 
comes loaded, it is drawn tip and emptied ; and ii^ 
time, by the addition of new portions of wooden 
pipe, the boring is carried to any depth, and water 
is generally obtained. 

t* To keep Ponds and artificial pieces of Water free 

from Weeds. 

At the marquis of Exeter's seat^ Bear Burghle^,. 
there is an artiikial piece of water, about a jnile m 
length, which used to be so ovenriui with wee<l^ 
that three mtn were eeoployed constantly, for six 
mot&ths in every year, to keep them under, in which 
they nev^ perfectly i»2cceeded. About seven y^ars 
9^ two pair of #waiis were pot (m &e water ;*-^ 



they completely cleared away all the weeds the first 
year, and none have appeared since, as the swans 
constantly eat them before they rise to the surface.^ ' 

1 Q. Method of draining Pond». in ievfil Grounds. 

At a certain distance below the surface of the 
earth, there sometimes is a Sitratum of- loose sand, 
which freely admits the passage of water. This 
stratum is at. various depths, in different elevations ; 
bul it will be generally found, that lands most sub- 
ject to stagnant ponds have but a shallow stratum of 
clay over the sand. All that is necessary, there- 
fore, is to dig a pit in the bottom of the pond, till 
you arrive at this stratum of sand, when the water 
will be immediately absorbed, and the pond emp^ 
tied. 



SECT. IV.— FENCES. 

f1. To make a Quickset Hedge or Fences 

Quick fences often become open in many places 
fit bottom^ notwithstanding the utmost attention, 
and more especially if neglected. The barberry 
shrub, on the contrary, will make an impenetrable 
fence, and always close at the bottom, because it 
puts up numerous suickers from the roots, which fill 
every vacancy.. It may as easily be rs^sed from 
die berries as quick or hawthorn, and it ^ws fas- 
ter. The suckers also will strike root easily, espe- 
cially if planted eerJy. These shrubs may be had 
at roost nursejoes. The barberry,, however, caft 
Qever make so strwg a fence as a good well trained 
kawllicNro hedge* Sut there are situations where it 
may be preferable ^ on th^ top of a high bank, (for 
it is pompaxsttirelyaligbt dhr«^) as in the Devqfi'*' 



44 AGR I CULTURE « 

shire hedges, for mixing with other plants in^ 
hedge, . or stopping gaps in an old hedge. For the 
last purpose the oommon sweet-briar (the'seedh'ngs 
of which may be raised in almost any situation for 
10^. a thousand) is also excellent. 

12. To train Evergreen and other Hedges^ 

Evergreen hedges, may he dipt about the beginr 
ning, but no later than the middle of April, as by 
that time they will begin to grow, and it is proper 
that this work should be previously performed.* 
Some content themselves with clipping but once a 
year^ in which case the end of July, or.lstof Au-r 
gust, i$ .a better time. 

In trimming these, or indeed any hedge intended 
as a close fence, they should be dressed up to a thin 
edge at top, as otherwise they are apt to get full of 
gaps below ; and the cause is obvious, that the un- 
der part, in square or cut hedges, is too much shad- 
ed by the upper part. Now, by sloping the sides, , 
every paxJtof the. hedge is freely exposed to the air^ 
nor is in any part over-di^opped by another. A 
hedge, intended merely as a fence, need seldom be 
more than five feet high, or at most six. Screeit 
hedges may be allowed to run to any height thought- 
necessary for that purpose^ neither is it requisite to- 
trim them so often as fence hedges ; once a year, or 
io two years, may be- sufficient. 

In the training of any hedge, it should not be 
topped or shortened, until it has arrived at a full* 
yard in height; but it may then have a little taken- 
off the points, in order to make it bush the- better,' 
and shoot of a more regular height afterwards. The 
sides, however, should be trimmed from the second 
or third year of planting, that it may grow the more 
complete and close below, for therein consists the 
ej(cellence of aay fence. It should not, . m top»- 



TEAMS. 46 

ping, at any time^ while in training, be much cut 
in, as that would make it push the stronger at top, 
to the detriment of the sides. When fence hedges 
•utgrow: their limits, they must of course be cut 
either wholly or partly down ; but if they be tolera- 
bly well kept, it is seldom necessary to cut them 
dowji more than' half to the ground. 



SECT, v.— TEAMS. 

13. Great Advantage of Ploughing with Oxen in-- 

stead of Horses* 

A team of four young horses will frequently cost 
a hundred^r a hundreaand twenty guineas, and in 
six or seven years time will be mere jddcs; whereas, 
on the other hand, a much less sum will purchase 
four capital six-year old oxen, which, after they 
have worked five or six years, and have been kept 
at two thirds of the expense of horses, will fetch as 
much, or more, than their first cost. 

Remark* — ^I'he advantage of preferring oxen to 
horses, however, is disputed by the most eminent 
practical farmers. The principal point is, that the 
profit of a farmer, particularly in bad seasons, often 
depends on the getting his work done within a givep 
time. In emergencies, ahorse may be fed up to 
almost any work. But an ox, however fed, will 
sink under his labour, if tasked beyond his ordina- 
ry rate* The farmer does not lose his half-worked 
horses, for there is a demand for them by higglers, 
petty carriers, and others, to whom of course he 
scUs them when they become less fit than at first for 
his more severe work. The argument is stated as 
fully, and perhaps as temperately, in the article 
^^ Jgriculturej'^^ in the ^^Edinbitrgh E)^cyclop(»dia^^^ 



4& AaRICfJLTUITE)^ 

as in any other place. It is too long for this coi-^ 
kction. 

14. Useful Hints relative to Carters And Teams of" 

©xen. 

Do not retard the growth of yoar beasts of draft, 
endanger their health, render them insignificant in 
the eyes of the many, and disgustful to their keep- 
ers, by working them too young. There is no dan- 
ger of their becoming unmanageable ; nose rings 
reclaim them, be they ever so riotous ; neverthe- 
less, the younger they are inured to light work, the 
more docile they will generally become. 

Do not expect that they can work constantly, on 
straw, nor expect to find them alert and spirited, 
while their buttocks are clodded with dung, and 
their coats throughout are filled with dirt and ver- 
min. 

Divide them into teams of four; let each team be 
fed by its respective carter. To give the man con- 
sequence with his felIow-servant», provide him with 
a curry comb lacquered on the iDack, and a brush 
bound with gilt leather. With these he will take 
a delight in combing off the dirt, and brushing out. 
the dust and filth. The ox, too, after the sensation 
becomes familiar, partakes in the pleasure, and will 
momentarily forego his meal to receive the full en- 
joyment. His feeder perceives this, and brushes 
the part which gives the most pleasure. The ox 
shews his gratitude by wagging his tail ; the carter, , 
in return, calls him by his name, and ingratiates 
himself with him. Thus, not only an intimacy but 
a mutual affection is formed, whirh at once gives 
attention to the keeper, and docility to the ox, and 
renders the labour, of both pleasant. 

A good carter feeds his cattle early and late, and 
by little and little, being careful not to give moce at 
ojice than they will eat immediately. 



Tbeir labour and their fodder ought Co be 5o pro« 
portioned, that their health and their spirits are 
kept in fall tone. Their coats ought to oe sleek ; 
their hides loose and silky ; the flank should fill the 
hand; and the shoulder handle mellow. If they 
be overworked or under fed, disease and sluggish* 
ness miistinevitably follow. A working ox ought 
always to he beef, that, in case of accident, he may 
grace, at least, the poor man's table. 

If oxen be introduced into a horse-team country, 
sot only attention, but «ome address is necessar}* 



SECT. VI.— MANURES. 

tS. Manure for Clover^ 

Some farmers make it a rule to spread about fifty 
bushels per acre of ashes over their clover in 
March, which they find, from long experience, to 
"be a good manure for this grass^ Wood-ashes will 
be useful on any soil; coal-ashes chiefly on stiff 
clays. On the stiff soils of some parts of Bucking- 
hamshire, ashes of all kinds are much esteemed, and 
have risen to a high price. 

.16, Utility of PigeoTh^s Dung as a Jilanure, 

Pigeon's dung will improve moist meadows very 
much by extirpating bad kinds of grasses, bringing 
vwhite clover in its stead, and augmenting the crop. 

1 7. For Compost Dunghills • 

Mix one hundred loads «f earth with ten chal- 
drons of lime (a chaldron is thirty»six bushels) a- 
bout May ; let them lie together until the lime is fall- 
enp but not run to mortar; then turn it over 3 lay 



seventy loads of stable dong close to it« When 
the dung is in a high putrid heat, which will per-^ 
haps be in four months, lay a layer of this and a 
layer of earth, two thirds of mafiure to ofte of 
. earth, and so go through the hiil ; turn it over in 
^^e spring, and lay it on in March or April ; eight 
loads on an ticre of grass* 

18. Another Compost* 

Mix lime and earth as before, and turn it ; then 
cover it with soil from privies, and coal-ashes about 
one third in quantity: lay it on <he top for some 
months, in an oblong heap ; then turn, and mix all 
together, letting it lie some months longer ; and lay 
alDout eight loads on an acre of grass* 

1 9. Experiment in manuring Land* , 

As a former, like a chemist, should lose none of 
his materials, but even make his washings, runnings, 
and residuums, turn out to his advantage, I have 
sent you some account of an experiment I have 
made in manuring of land, which I beg you will lay 
before the committee of agriculture, that they may 
communicate it to others. 

I am possessed of a farm of near three hundred 
pounds a year, and have in my yard what you usu- 
ally see in most farmer's yards, two recesses or 
pools, as reservoirs of dung and water. These re- 
servoirs of dung and water are continually running 
over, and of course part of the matter contained in 
them is carried off by the necessary drains, into the 
highways, ditches, and rivers* 

As much of the essential quality of the dung is 
lost in this manner, (Tor part' df the salts, whether 
fixed or volatile, will be washed into the pools, and 
when they run over, will be conveyed ijito the 
ditcke% &c*) I thought it a part of good husb^ndrj^ 



to carry this superabundant water or manure, (for so 
we may justly call it,) on my land, which I did by 
iBeans of a watering-cart, not unlike those with 
which the roads tnear London are watered in sum« 
mer-time, to allay the dust. 

That the experiment might be the more obvious 
and certain, I first tried it in the beginning of 
March, on a few acres, in the middle of a large 
field of wheat, where, in a little time, I found a con- 
siderable increase in growth, both of grass and 
grain ; and at hay-time and harvest, both the one 
and the other were much better crops than what the 
3arae lands produced that were not so manured. 

As a man, or even a boy, with one of these carts, 
and one horse, may manure a great deal of land in 
a day, provided it be near the yard, I would recom- 
mend the practice to all farmers ; for the expense 
is nothing but the value of the time of the boy and 
horse, and the increase by what i have seen will be 
very great. 

This manure may be also laid to great advantage 
on land, that is fresh sown with barley, oats, or any 
other grain ; but on grass it should be laid in the 
winter time, when the rains will wash the salts off 
the blades ; or in the spring, when the lands are laid 
up for hay, as the cattle will not feed on the grass 
while the dung or salt adheres to the blade of it. 

This dung water should likewise be earned on the 
land, not at a time when it rains, but in dry weath- 
er, and at a time w^hen the dung water in the pools 
is of a deep brown colour, and strongly impregnat- 
ed with salts. By this means the land may be ma- 
nured from time to time, and the pools kept almost 
empty for the reception of fresh matter almost every 
time it rains, and nothing will be lost. 



I' 

!*' 



iO AGHlCULtUftlU 

'20. t)r. Taylor^ s Easy Method of ascertaining tht 
Qi lit a tics of Mnrle^ Lime Stones^ or Quick LimCj 
for the Purposes of Agriculture. 

This was a comniunicSition by Dr. Taylor to the 
Manchester Agricultural Society : the general use 
of marie and Time, as manures, having prompted 
liim to point out the importance of an easy and cer- 
tain method of determining the qualities of different 
earths and stones, and ascertaining the quantity of 
calcareous earth in their composition ; their value, 
in agriculture, commonly increasing in proportion 
to the greater quantity, of it which they contain- 
The process recommended is thus described. — The 
taarle or stone being dried, and reduced to powder, 
put half an ounce of it into a half pint glassy potir- 
ing in clear water till the glass is half full; then 
gradually add a small quantity of strong marine acid, 
commonly called spirit of salt, and stir the mixture 
well together. As soon as the effervescence thus 
excited subsides, add a little more marine acid : 
-thus continuing the operation while any of the ear- 
thy matter appears to dissolve ; atid till the liquor, 
after being well stirred and allowed to stand for half 
an hour, appears sensibly acid to the taste. When 
the mixture has subsided, if the liquor above it be 
colourless, that marie or lime stone is the best which 
leaves the least in quantity of sediment or deposit, 
at the bottom of the glass. This experiment is suf- 
ficient to determine which of the samples tried is 
most proper for the uses of agriculture ; as pure cal- 
careous earth or lime, which is the earth useful ia 
agriculture, will be entirely dissolved, but clay or 
sand' will not be sensibly acted on by the acid. 
Where great accuracy is required iti detemiining the 
experiment, lay a soft spongy paper, of which the 
weight is exactly taken, in an earthen 'colander — for 
no metallic vessel, or implement for stirripg, kc. 



CULTURE or CROPS. 5t 

must be used in any part of the process — and, pour- 
ing the saturated mixture of earth and acid on it, let 
all the liquor filtre through ; then pour a little clear 
water over the earthy matter remaining on the filter ; 
and, when that water has also filtered through, dry 
the paper with the earthy matter on it which re- 
mains undissolved, when the deficiency found, on 
weighing them, from their original weight, will dis- 
cover what portion of the marie or lime has been 
dissolved in the acid. What quantity of earthy 
matter has been dissolved, may be made evident to 
^e sight, by gradually adding, to the liquor whicb 
has been filtered through the paper, a clear sol*:- 
tion of pearl ashes, or ashes of burnt wood ; this 
will occasion a precipitation of the contained lime 
or calcareous earth to the bottom of the vessel^ 
which precipitate must be dried and weighed. 

SECT. VIL-^ULTURE, &c. OF CROPS. 

21. Easy Method of discovering whether or not 

Seeds are sufficiently ripe. 

Seeds, when not sufficiently ripe, will swim, but 
when arrived at full maturity, they will be found 
uniformly to fall to the bottom ; a fact that is said to' 
hold equally true of all seeds, from the cocqa nut to 
the orchis. 

22. To preserve Seeds, zchcn sown, from Vermin* 

Steep the grain or seed three or four hours, or a 
sufficient time for it to penetrate the skin, or husk, 
in a strong solution of liver of sulphur. 

23. Striped Grass recommended for Hay* 

The Indian striped or ribband grass, which is 
cultivated i« gardens, would answer admirably for 
hay. In rich grounds plants are frequently four feet 
high ; what a burden of hay would a field so crop- 
ped produce! Cattle are exceedingly fond of it^ 



52 AGRICULTURE. 

the seeds are easily saved, so that a person mighc 
soon have enough for a rood, and from that §ave a* 
gain and again, for at many acres as he might chuse* 
h is probable that the crop might be much too large 
to be made on the field where it grew ; if so, it would 
be worth while to carry part into another field. 

24. When to cut Rye-Grass for Hay, 

' Rye-grass, if mown for hay, should be cut when" 
in blossom, and not green. The hay made from it 
does not heat or sweat so much, and is very good 
for horses, bui not for sheep and pattle. If it is suf- 
fe?ed to stand too long before it is cut, the seeds 
rob tliCfilants of their juices, and leave it no bet- 
ter than whe^ or rye straw. 






To prevent Hay-Stacks from taking fire • 



When there is any reason to fear that the hay, 
ivhich is intended to be housed or stacked, is not 
sufficiently dry, it is only necessary lb scatter a few 
handfuls of common salt (muriate of soda) between 
each layer. It would be very ill judged to regret 
this trifling expense, for the salt, by absorbing the 
humidity of the hay, not only prevents the ferment- 
>a lion and consequent infiammation of it, but it also 
ftdds a taste to this forage, which stimulates the ap- 
petites of catde, assists their digestion, and preserves 
them from mginy diseases. 

Remark, — The cattle like a little salt, but it has 
little effect in preventing inflammation. 

26. Method of preventing the Smut in Wheat, 

I have seen a great deal, read a great deal, heard 
a great deal, of the benefits arising from steeping 
seed wheat in brines and other preparations, to pre- 
vent its being smutty : some have answered, others 
have miscarried; but I always observed that if the 
seed was well washed, it failed not. I took the hint, 
and washed well, in a large tub, some seed I knew 



r 



CULTURE Of CROPS. $S 

to "be smutty. I washed it in plain simple water, 
stirring it violently with bijx^n brooms, and took 
care, from time to time, to skim off the light corn, 
impurities, &c. It answered well j and I have con* 
tinned Ae practice ever since. Let your practicaL 
readers try it, and it will do the same* 

27. To prevent the Smut in Wheat. 

The means to prevent smut are simple ; and nO' 
other than immersing the seed in pure water, and 
repeatedly scouring it therein, just oefore it is sown 
or dibbled in.. Whether well, spring, or river wa- 
ter be used, is indifferent ; but repeated stirring and 
change of water is essential to remove the possible 
particles of infection, that may have imperceptibly 
adhered to the seed.. Tiius purified, the subsequent 
crop will be perfect in itself, and seed successively 
so likewise, if there be no adjacent iields from 
whence this contamination may be wafted. The 
addition of any alkaline or earthy salt, by increas- 
ing the specific gravity of the water, is of advantage 
ia floating oSfthe unsound grains, and after the seed 
is washed it should be dri<^ immediately, by rub- 
bing it with newly slacked lime.. 

28. Fertilising Sleeps for Turnips, Wheat, or Barley. 

- Steep turnip seed twelve hours in train oil, which, 
strain through a fine sieve, and immediately tho- 
roughly n^ix the quantity pf seed you would wish to 
sow on an acre with three bushels of dry loamy earth| 
finely sifted, which drill (or sow) as soon as po6si-» 
ble; and when the plants begin to appear, throw a 
small quantity of soot over them. 

29- Steep for Wheat, Barley^ or^her Gr<xin* 

Put ft peck ^nd a half of wood ashes, and a peck 
of unslacked lime, into a tub that will hold forty gal- 
lons^ then add as much water as will slake the lime, 
and fender the mixture into the consistence of stiff: 






M AOftlCCLTURC. 

martan In this state it should remain ten or twelve 
hours ; then add as much water as will reduce the 
mortar to a pulp by thorough stirring. In this state 
fill the tub with water, and occasionally keep stir- 
ring foe two or three days. After which, draw off 
the clear lye into an open vessel, and gradually put 
the grain into it v skim off the light grains ; and af- 
ter the corn has been steeped three hours, spread it 
on a clean floor to dry, when it will be sufficiently 
prepared for drilling or sowing. The lye will re- 
tain its full virtue, and may be repeatedly used. 

Remark, — It has been doubted whether steeps are 
of any use, except so far as they facilitate the sepa- 
ration of the light grains, and wash off the seeds of 
the parasite plants, which are thought to occasioa 
i&mut, &c. In the best cultivated parts of Scotland, 
deed wheat is steeped in stale urine, or in a brine 
made with common sak, which, by increasing the 
specific gravity of the water, floats the unsound 
grains. The seed is well washed, and then dried, 
fly mixing it with fresh slacked lime, and rubbing it 
briskJy with a wooden shovel. The quicklime and 
rubbing is thought to assist in cleansing the seed ;~ 
but, independent of that^, the mere drying the seed; 
quickly is convenient. 

30. To $ozo Wheat to advantage zoithout lading on 

Manure* 

It has beep found expedient sometimes to sow 
wheat without laying on any manure ; and, in the 
beginning of February, to collect twenty bushels of 
lime, unslacked, for every acre, and forty bushels of 
sand, and the rubbish of a brick-kiln ; then, about 
the end of the month, to slake the lime, which dou« 
ble^ the measure, and mix it well with the sand, and 
immediately afterwar4s to scatter it by way of top* 
dressing pver the green wheat. As rain generally 
succeed, it is soon washed down IQ the roots of tbie 



r 



CCLISURS OF CmOPS. S&: 

plants, and gives them a vigour and strength which^ 
tx> those who. never made the experiment, is aston*. 
isbtng. The lime, sand,, and rubbish, are particu«. 
larly useful iu breaking the tenacity of, stinf clavs*. 
In a clay soil, where coaL was vesy cheap^ the clay 
was slightly burned in the field,, and spread over, 
the surfece>. as the cheapest way of subduing the 
coarseness and stiffness of the soil. The refuse or. 
rubbish from mines in the neighborhood has been 
burned and applied with advantage on the same 
principle*. 

31 .. Approved Method of Sov>ing Wheat on Narrom- 

Midges* 

The seedsman should walk up one side of the bod 
and down the other side, always keeping his face, 
and the hand with which he sows, towaras the bed 
he is sowing : his eye must be continually on the 
edge of the opposite interfurrow, and deliver his 
seed principally Oil the side of the bed next to it : 
as he returns, the sides .will, of course be reversed^ 
and the beds become evenly seeded* 

S2,9 Great Utility of sowing Buck'Wheat. . 

hi light lands buck-wheat may be raised to great 
advantage^ as a lucrative crop* When ^reen it is a 
fine feed for milch kine,,and when.ploughedis a fine 
preparation for. the land*. It fattens pigs with great 
economy, and, passed through the mill, is, with car- 
rot, a capital feed for work horses. The seed is 
excellent food for poultry, and when ground makea. 
good- bread.. 

33* To keep Crows from Corn. . 

Take a quart of train oil, as much turpentine and( 
l^uised gunpowder, boil them together, and, when 
hot, dip pieces of rags in the mixture, and fix them 
on sticks in the fiteldt About four are sufficient for 
an acre of corn* 



"1 

I 



56 AGEICULTURET* 

34. Proper Soil for the Culture of Turnips. 

Sandy loams, in good heart, are most favorable to 
their growth, though they will thrive well on strong 
loams, if not wet; but on clayey, thin, or wet soils, 
they are not worth cultivating ; for though a good 
crop may be raised on such ground, when well pre- 
pared and dunged^ more damage is done by taking 
off the turnips in winter, in poaching the soil, than 
the value of the crap will repay.. 

35. Instructions for raising Potatoes tX) advamiage. 

The earth should be d«g twelve Inches deep, if 
the soil will allow it: after this, a hole should be 
opened about six inches deep, and horse dung, or 
long litter^ should be put therein, about three inches 
thick : this hole should not be more than twelve in- 
ches diameter. Upon tliis dung, or litter, a potatoe 
should be planted whole, upon which a, little more 
dung should be shaken, and. then the earth must be- 
put thereon, lu like manner the whole plot ot 
ground must be planted, taking care that the pota- 
toes be set at least sixteen inches apart*. When the 
young shoots make their appearance they should, 
have fresh mould drawn round them with a hoe, and 
if the tender shoots are covered, it- will prevent the- 
frost from injuring them : they should again be earth-- 
ed when the shoots make a second appearance, buf. 
wot covered, as, in all probability, the season will. 
be less severe. 

A plentiful supply of mould should be given tbem^. 
and the person who performs this business should' 
never tread upon the plant, or the ^hillock that is 
raised round it, as, the lighter the earth is,, the more 
room the potatoe will have to expand. 

A gentleman obtained from a single root thus 
planted, very near forty pounds weight of large po- 
tatoes \ and, from almost every other root upon the 
same plot of ground, from fifteen to twenty pounds- 



PRESERVATION OP CORN AND VEGETABLES. 57 

\veigbt; and, except the soil be stony or gravelly, 
ten pounds, or half a peck, of potatoes may almost 
be obtained from each root, by pursuing the fore- 
going method. 

36. Preparation fqr Carrots and other winged Seeds * 

Take two bushels of dry loamy earth, finely sift- 
ed ; to which add one bushel of bran, and a sufficient 
quantity of carrot seed, cfeaned from stalks, and well 
rubbed between the hands; all which thoroughly 
mix together, and drill (or sow.) The carrot seed 
iriH stick to the bran, which, with the earth, will 
be regularly discharged.^ 



SECT. VIII. — PRESERVATION OF CORN 

AND VEGETABLES. 

37. Important discovery relative to the Preservation 

of Corn* 

To preserve rye, and secure it from insects attd 
yats, nothing more is necessary than not to winnow 
it after it is thrashed, but merely separate it from 
the straw, and to stow it in the granaries mixed 
with the chaff* In this state it has been kept for 
more than three years, without experiencing the 
smallest alteration, and even without the necessity 
of being turned to preserve it from humidity and 
fcrmentation* Rats and mice may be prevented 
from entering the barn, by putting some wild vine or 
hedge plants upon the heap ; the smell of the wood 
is so offensive to these animals, that they will not 
approach it. The experiment has not yet beea 
made with wheat and other kinds of grain, but they 
may probably be preserved in the chaff with equal 
advantage. It must however be observed, that the 
husks'and corns of rye are different from most other 
grain. It has been sown near houses, where many 
poultry were kept for the purpose of bringing up a 



53 AGRICULTURE.^ 

crop of grass, because the poultry do not destroy it,- 
as they would have done wheat, oats, or even barley 
in the same situation. 

35. To preserve Corn in Sacks, 

Provide a reed cane, or other hollow stick, made 
so by gluing together two grooved sticks; let it be a- 
bout three feet nine inches long ; and that it may 
be the easier thrust down to the bottom of the cora 
in the sack, its end be made to taper to a point, by 
a wooden plug that is fixed in, and stops the orifice* 
About one hundred and fifty small holes, of one 
eighth of an inch in diatneter, are to be bored on all 
sides of the stick, from its bottom for about two feet 
ten inches of its length; but no nearer to the surface 
of the corn, lest too great a proportion of the air 
should escape there. By winding a packthread iir 
a spiral form round the stick, the boring of the hole§ 
may be the better regulated, so as to have them a- 
bout half an inch distant towards the bottom, but 
gradually at wider distances, so as to be an inch 
asunder at the upper part ; by which means the 
lower part of the coi'n w*illhave its due proportion' 
of fresh air. To the top of tlie stick let there be fix- 
ed a leathern pipe ten inches long ; which pipe is 
to be distended by two yards of spirnF wire, coiled 
Up within it. At the upper part of the pipe is fixed 
a taper wooden fasset, into which the nose of a 
common household belows is to be put, in order to* 
ventilate the corn. 

If corn, when first put into sacks, be thus aired, 
every other or third day, for ten or fifteen minutes, 
its damp sweats, which would hurt it, will, in a few 
weeks, be carried off to such a degree, that it will 
afterwards keep sweet with very little airing, as has 
been found by experience. 

By the same means other kinds of seeds, as well- 
as corn, may be kept sweet either in sacks or smalt 
bins.^ 



\ 



' i 



PRESEKVATION OP CORN ANT) VEGETABLES. 5^ 

^9, To preserve Oats from being musty • 

Richard Furtnore, Esq. of Tusmore, in Oxford- 
shire, has, in his stable, a contrivaocc to let oats 
down from a loft out of a vessel, like the hopper of 
fei mill, whence they fall into a square pipe, let into 
ft wall about four inches diagonal, which comes into 
a cupboard set into a wall, but with its end so near 
the bottom, that there shall never be above a de- 
sirable quantity in the cupboard at a time, which 
being taken away, another parcel succeeds ; by this 
motion the oats are kept constantly sweet, (the tak- 
ing away one gallon moving the whole above) 
w^hich, when laid up otherwise in great quantities, 
frequently grow musty. 

40. Easy Method of destroying Miles or Weevils in 

Granaries. 

A very eagacicnas farmer has succeeded in de- 
stroying weevils by a very easy process* In the 
month of June, when his granaries were all empty, 
he collected great quantities of the largest sized 
ants, and scattered them about the places infested 
with the weevils. The ants immediately fell upon 
and devoured every one of.them ; nor have any wee- 
?rils since that time been seen on his premises* 

Reynark. — The large, or wood ant, feeds entirely 
on animal substantes, of course it would not destroy 
the corn. 

41. To prestrxe Carrots^ Parsnips^ and Beets nil 

the Winter. 

A little before the frost sets in, draw your beets 
or parsnips out of the ground, and lay them in the 
iiouse, burying their roots in sand to the neck of tb<: 
•plant, and ranging them one by another in a shelv-^ 
ing position ; then another bed of sand, and another 
xA beets, and continue this order to the last. By 
pursuing this method, they will keep very fresh. — 
When they are wanted for trse, draw them a^ they 
Qjland, not out of the middle or sides. 



BO AGRICULTURE. 

42. To preserve Turnips from Fro si. 

The best way is to stack them up in straw in the 
following manner: — One load of any dry straw is 
sufficient for an acre of fifty tons weight. Pull up 
the turnips, top and tail them, then throw them in 
a sort of windrow, and let them lie a few days to 

dry. 

First, lay a layer of straw next the ground, and 
upon it a layer of turnips about half a yard thick ; 
then another layer of straw ; so go on alternately 
with a layer of straw and a layer of turnips; every 
layer grows narrower, till it comes to a point at the 
top like a sugar loaf. The last layer must be straw, 
which serves to keep all dry. You must observe 
always when you have laid a layer of turnips, to 
stroke or lap over the ends of the under layer of 
straw, in order to keep them close, or from tumbling 
out. The heap should be as large as a hay-cock ; 
the tops may be given to sheep or cattle as they are 
cut offl 

43. Aiiothet. 

Turnipj placed in layers, though not thick, have 
been found, after a few weeks, to rot. In some 
places the following method is adopted : — Lay the 
turnips close together in a single layer, on a grass 
field, near the farm yard, and acattet some straw 
and branches of trees over them : this will preserve 
them from sudden alterations of frost and thaw. — 
They keep as well as stored turnips can do. The 
bare grass is of no value in winter, and may rather 
perhaps receive some benefit from the shelter of the 
turnip. An immense quantity may thus be stored 
on a small extent of grass-ground. It is chiefly use- 
ful for small farmers, in soils unfit for the turnip, but 
who are forced to raise it for milk-cows, or to sup- 
port in the winter, the sheep they feed in the sum- 
mer on the commons, and which they keep per- 
haps principally IB the night on the fields they have 



OlGRlCt>LrtB£. Gl 

)io Other means of manuring. But it may be useful 
"even on proper turnip soils, to save the latter parC 
of the crop from the £udden frosts and sunshine in 
the spring, or in an open winter, which rot so great 
a portioD of it ; perhaps a fourth or third part of 
Vnat is then on the grouad. 



SECT. IX. PROTECTION OF GROWING 

CROPS FROM THE DEVASTATION OF 
VERMIN, 

44. The good Effects of Elder in preserving Plants 

from Insects and Flies* 

1 • For preventing cabbage and cauliflower plants 
from bemg devoured and damaged by caterpillars. 

2. For preventing blights, and their eflects on 
fruit trees^ 

3. For preserving corn from yellow flies and 
otlier insects. 

4. For securing turnips from the ravages of flies.. 
The dwarf elder appears to exhale a much more 

fcBtid smell than the common elder, and therefore 
should be preferred* 

45. The Use of SulphuY in destroying Insects on 

Plants^ and its Benefit for Vegetation* 

Tie up some flower of sulphur in a piece of mus- 
lin or fine linen, and with this the leaves of young 
shobts of plants should be dusted, or it may be, 
thrown on them by the means of a common swans- 
down puff, or ev^en by a dredging-box. 

Fresh assurances have repeatedly been received 
of the powerful influence of Sulphur against the 
whole tribe of insects and worms which infest and. 
prey on vegetables. Sulphur has also been found 
to promote the health of plants, on which it was 
sprinkled ; and thai peach trees, in particular, were 
remarkably improved by it, and seemed to absorb 

F 



63 PROTECTION Of CROPS iTROM VERHIir. 

it* It has likewise been obserred, that the verdure, 
and other healthful appearances^ were perceptibly 
increased .; for the quantity of new shoots and leaTes 
formed subsequently to the operation, and having 
IK> sulphar on their surfaces, served as a kind of 
comparative index, and pointed out distinctly the 
' accumulation of healths 

46* Methods of stepping the Savages efthe CaUr^ 
pillars from Shrubs^ Plants^ and Vegetables. 

Take a chaffing-dish, with lighted charcoal, and 
place it under the branches oi the tree, or bush, 
whereon are the caterpillars ; then throw a little 
brimstone on the coals. The vapour of the suU 
phur, which is mortal to these insects, and the suf- 
focating fixed air arising from the charcoal, will not 
only destroy all that are on the tree, but will effectu^ 
ally prevetYt the shrubs from beine, that season, in- 
fested with them. A pound of sulphur will clear as 
Biany trees as grow on several acres. 

Another method of driving these insects ofF fruit- 
trees, IS to boil a together quantity of rue, worm- 
wood, and common tobacco (of each eoual parts,) 
in common water. The liquor shoulci be very 
Strong. Sprinkle this on the leaves and young 
branches every morning and evening during the time 
the fruitis ripening. 

In the Economical Journal of France, the fol- 
lowing method of guarding cabbages from the depre- 
dations of caterpillars is stated to be infallible, and 
and may, perhaps, be equally serviceable against 
those which infest other vegetables. Sow with 
hemp all the borders of the ground wherein the cab- | 

bage is planted ; and, although the neighbourhood » 
be infested with caterpillars, the space inclosed hy y 
the hemp will be pecfecdy free^ and not one of thes6 
vemuQ will apfHToach it. 



f 



AGarCULTURE. 63 

4ff. 71b premrU the Increase nf Pismires in Grass^ 

iMnds newly kxid doTvnm 

Make a strong decoction of Walnut-tree leaves, 
and after opening several of the pismire's sandy 
habitations, pour upon them a quantity of the li- 
quor, just sufficient to fill the hollow of each heap : 
after the middle of it has been scooped, throw in 
the contents from the sides, and press down the 
whole mass with the foot, till it becomes level with 
the rest of the field. This, if not found effectual at 
first, must be i-epeatod a second or a third time, 
when they infallibly will be destroyed. 

48. Liquor for destroying CktierpiiJurSj JlntSj and 

other Insects^ 

Take a pound and three quarters of soap, the 
same qoantity of flower of sulphur, two pounds of 
champignons, or puff balls, and fifteen gallons of 
water. When the whole has been well mixed, by 
Ifec aid of a gentle heat, sprinkle the insects with- 
the; liquor, and it will instantly kill them. 

49. To destroy Ants. 

Ants are destroyed by opening the nest, and put- 
ting in quick lime, and throwing water on it. 

50. To prevent the Fly in Turnips* 

Sow good and fresh seed in well manured and 
well prepared ground.. 

51. To prevent the, Destruciion of Field Turnips hy 

Slugs. . . 

A few year* sfnee, a considerable former, near 
Bath, observing the turnips in one of his fiekis 
strongly attacked by something, discovered, by ae- 
cident, that the enemy was really a slug, and im- 
mediately prevented farther damage by well roll- 
ing the wbole field, by night, which killed all the 
slugs* 



64: PROTECTION OF CROPS FROM VERfflTIN". 

Nr B. This was the grand secret which was ad- 
vertised for two thousand subscribers, at one guinea 
each, by W. Vagg, for dtstroying the fly in turnips, 
which it will not do ! 

52, For preventing Flies from destroying the Seed- 

ling Leaves of Turnips j ^c^. 

Mix six ounces of flower of brimstone with three 
pounds of turnip seed, daily, for three days succes- 
sively, in an earthen-gtazed pot, and keep it close 
covered, stirring all together well at each addition, 
that the seed may be the raare tainted with the sul- 
phur ; this will sow an acre of ground, and let the 
weather come wet or dry, it will keep the fly ofTtiil 
the third or fourth seeding leaf is formed ; and by 
this time they will all be somewhat bitterish, and 
consequently very much out of danger of this little ^ 
black flying insect, which^ in sumriier time, may be 
seen in swarms, on the wing, near the ground, 
searching for, and settjing on fresh bites, till they 
ruin thousands of acres* 

53, To prevent Mice from destroying early sown 

Peas, 

The tops of furze, or whins, chopped and thrown 
into the drills, and thus covered up (by goading 
them in their attempt to scratch) is an efl^ectual pre- 
ventive. Sea sand, strewed pretty thick upon the 
surface, has the same efiect. It gets ;nto their ears 
and is troublesome. 

54, ^^ not her. 

In the gardens in Devonshire, a simple trap is 
used to destroy mice. A common brick, or flat stone 
is set on one end, inclined at an angle of about forty- 
five degrees. . Two strings, tied to a ci^acked stick, 
stuck in the ground, with loops at the ends of the 
strings, are brought round to the middle of the un- 
der part of the brick, and one loop being put into 



ANGLING. 65 



the other, a pea or bean, or any other bait, makes 
the string fast, so as to support the brick. When 
the animal removes the bait, the loops separate^ 
and the brick, by falling, smothers the animaU 



SECT. X.— WEEDS. 

55. Usefulness of mowing Weeds. 

In the month of June, weeds are in their most 
succulent state ; and in this state, especially after 
they have lain a few hours to wither, hungry catde 
will eat greedily almost every species. There is 
scarcely a hedge border, or a nook, but what at this 
season is valuable; and it certainly must be good 
management to embrace tiie transient opportunity ; 
for, in a few weeks, they will become nuisances.. 

(See also Cattle, Dairy ^ Vermin^ Weather^ ^c.\ 



CHAPTER 11. 
ANGLING.— FISHING. 



5^» To preserve Fishing Rods. 

Oil your rods, in summer, with linseed oil, dry-^ 
ing them in the sun, and taking care the parts lie 
flat : they should be often turned, to prevent them 
from warping. This will render them tough, and 
prevent their being worm-eaten ; in time they will 
acquire a beautiful* brown* colour. Should they 
get wet, which swells the wood, and makes it fast 
in the sockets, turn the part round over the flamt? 
of a candle a short time, and it will be easily s^t 
at liberty. 



66 ^ ANGLING* 

57. To make Quill Floats for Fishing* 

Take any quantity of swan or goose quills yoa 
may want, cut off the barrel part from that where^ 
the feathers grow, and, with a thick piece of wire 
wrapped round the end with cotton wool, clear the 
inside of the quiil from the film ; put in a small 
piece of pitch, about the size of a sweet pea, and, 
with the wire, force it to the end, ramming it close f 
this will effectually keep out the water ; put a small 
piece of cotton wool upon the pitch, sufficient, when 
forced close into the quill, to form a space of a 
quarterof an inch, and, upon the cotton, add anoth- 
er piece of pitch of the same size as the first, which 
will secure the cotton^ and make the float easily dis- 
cerned on the water ; take a piece of sallow bazel^ 
or other soft wood, about the same size as the cir- 
cumference of the quill, and about two inches long ;: 
fit it neatly about f of an inch into the quill, and fas- 
ten it with a cement made of powdered bees-wax,. 
rosin, and chalk, melted over the fire in a ladle ^ 
dip the plug in when it is sufficiently melted and in- 
corporated; and put into it immediately a piece of 
doubled brass wire, the loop end formed into a 
round eye, and the other twisted, which will pass^ 
into the plug like a screw, holding the wire fast witb 
a pair of small pliers, and turning the float round ;: 
the line passes through the eye of the wire ; the top 
of the float is made fast to the line by a hoop made 
of the barrel part of the quill, and rather wider than^ 
the float, to admit the thickness of the line ; by 
means of this hoop the float may be shifted at plea- 
^sure, according to the depth you are inclined to 
fish ; the hoops may be dyed i»ed by the following 
method : — Take some stale urine, and put to it a» 
much Brazil wood in powder as will make it a deep 
red ; then take some fair water, and put a handful 
of salt into it, and a small quantity of argol, stirring, 
them till they are dissolved 5 boil them over tbe fire 



Aer6LiNO» €7 

in a saucepan, and when cotd, put in the quills, welt 
scraped, and let them lie awhile in it ; then take, 
them out, and put them into theuriDC made red with 
the Brazil wood, and let them continue a fortnight ; 
when dry, rub them with a woollen cloth, and they 
will be transparent. The hoope must be cut with a 
sharp knife, or the quill will split* 

58. Imptwed Method of making Cork Floats^ for 

Fishing* 

Take a cork, firm and free from flaws, and with 
a small red-hot iron, bore a hole lengthways throueh 
the centre ; with a sharp knife cut it across the 
grain about two- thirds of the length, tapering to the 
end where the hole is bored, and the remaining 
third rounded with it, (which is the top of the float) 
in the shape of an egg, the lower end tapering more 
gradually, resembling in shape the small peg-tops 
children play with. 

59* * Easy Method of dijing Fishing Lanes. 

Lines of silk or hemp may be coloured by a 
strong decoction of oak bark, which, it is believed, 
render them more durable, and resists the water ; 
it gives them an excellent russet-brown colour, and 
any shade of it may be obtained, by the time they 
remain in the decoction, which shquld be cokl» 

60. To prevent Fishing Lines from rotting. 

Never wind your lines on your reel wet ; at least, 
when you get home, wrap them round the back of a 
chair, and let them be thoroughly dried, otherwise 
they will soon rot, and cannot be depended on ; 
with this care they will last a considerable time. 

61. To pr&oent taking Cold while Jingling. 

Avoid sitting upon the ground, though it may ap- 
pear dry, for the heat of the body will cause a mois- 
ture which soon cools, and may be sensibly felt. If 



i 



6S ANGLINa* 

the angler, through age or infirmity, is incapable of 
standing long, a piece of cosu'se woollen cloth, dou- 
bled two or three times, will be very useful to sit 
upon, especially in fishing for barbel, roach, and 
dace, where the angler is confined to one place. 

62. To improve the Sport of Anglings hy Attention 

to the Dress. 

Some attention should be paid to the colour of an 
angler's dress ; it is natural to conclude, that green 
would be most eligible, as it would vary little from 
those objects with which fish are familiarised, such 
as trees growing near the sides of rivers, and herb- 
age on the banks 5 yet, as this particular colour 
might be disagreeable to many, the angler shoulda- 
void all strong contrasts to those objects, particular- 
ly scarlet, and very light colours.. 

63. Rule^for Fly Fishing, 

A fishing fly is a bait used in angling for various 
kinds offish. The fly is either natural or artificial. 
The chief of the natural flies are the " stone fly,'^ 
found under hollow stones at the sides of rivers, 
between April and July, it is brown, with yellow 
streaks, and has large wings. The " green-drake," 
found among stones by river sides ; it has a yellow 
body ribbed with green ; it is long and slender, with 
wings like a butterfly, and is common in the spring. 
The " oak fly," found on the body of an oak or ash, 
is of a brown colour, and common during the sum- 
mer months.. The '' palmer fly or worm," found 
on- the leaves of plants, when it assumes the fly state 
from that of the caterpillar; it is much used in trout 
fishing. The " ant fly," found on ant hills from 
June to Scj)tember. The '* May fly," is to be found 
playing at the river side, especially before rain^. 
Artd the " black fly," which is to be found upon eve- 
ry hawtiiorn after the buds are off. There are two 
ways to fish with natural flies, either on the surface 



/ 



of the water, or a little underneath it. In angKng 
for roach, dace, &c. the fly should be allowed to 
glide down the stream to the fii»h, but in very still 
water the bait may be di-awn by the fish, which will 
^rnake him eagerly pursue it. 

There are many sorts of artificial flies to be had 
at the shops ; they are made in imitation of natural 
flies, and the rules for using them are as follow : 
Keep as far from th« water's edge as may l)C, and 
fish down the stream with the §un at your back ; the 
line must not touch the water. In clear rivers the 
anglermust use 'small flies with slender wings, but 
in muddy waters a larger fly may be used. After 
rain, when the waters are muddy, an orange-colour* 
ed fly may be used wiA advantage ; in a clear day, 
the fly must be light coloured, and in dark water 
the fly must be dark. The line should, in general^ 
be twice as long as the rod ; but, after all, much 
will depend upon a quick eye and active hand.. 
Flies made for catching salmon must have their 
wings standing one behind the Other. This fish is 
said to be attracted by the gaudi<^st colours that caa 
he obtained ; the wings and tail should be long and 
spreading. 

64. To intoxicate and take Fish. 

Make a paste in the following manner : take cocu- 
his indicus, cummin seeds, fenugreek seeds, and co- 
riander seeds, equal parts ; reduce them to powder, 
and make them into a paste, with rice-flour and wa- 
ter ; reduce this paste into small balls of the size of 
peas, and throw it into such ponds or rivers where 
there are fish, which, after eating thereof, will rise 
to the surface of the water almost motionless, and 
will allow themselves to be taken out by the hand.. 



7d TJSEFDL ARTSSiL 

CHAPTER in. 
USEFUL. ARTS. 



^5* Beneficial Purpose to which ike Juice of Albc^ 

may he applied. 

In the East-Indies aloes are employed' as a var- 
nish, to preserve wood from worms and other in« 
sects ; and skins^and even living animals are anoint- 
ed with it for the same reason- The hav.ock com- 
mitted by the white ants in India first suggested the 
trial of aloe juice,, to. protect wood from them; for- 
which purpose the juice is either used as extracted^ 
or in soiutioo, by some solvent* 

G6« Efficacy of the Juice of Aloes on Skips Bottoms* 

Aloes have been found effectual in preserving^ 
ships &om the ravages of the worm and the adhesion 
of barnacles. The ship^s bottom, for this purpose^ . 
i^ smeared with a composition of hepatic aloes, tur- 
pentine, tallow, and white lead. In proof of the ef- 
ficacy of this method, two planks of equal thickness, 
and cut from the same tree, were placed. under wa- 
ter, one in its natural state, and the other smeared 
with the composition. On taking them up, after 
being immersed eight months, the latter was found: 
to be perfect as at first, while the former was en- 
tirely penetrated with insects, and in a state of ab- 
solute rottenness. 

67. To Bronze Plaster Figures. 

Lay the figure over with isinglass size till it holds 
out, or without any part of its surface becoming dry 
or spotted ; then with a brush, such as is termed by 
painters a sash tool, go over the wholc^ observing 
carefully to remove any of the size (while it is yet. 
soft) that may lodge on the delicate or sharp places, 



unS s^ it aside to dry : when it has become so, take 
a Htlle very thin oil gold-size^ and, with as much of 
it as just aam.ps the brush, go over the figure, aU 
lowing no more of thb size lo remain tmin what 
causes it to shine. Set it apart in a dry place, free 
fFom smoke, and^ after k has remained there f(»*ty- 
^ght hours, the figure is prepared for brooziog. 

The bronze, which is almost an impalpable pow» 
der, ^and may be bad at the colour shops, of all me- 
tallic colours) shodd be dabbed oo with a little cot- 
ton wooL After having touched over the whole fi^ 
Ere, let it staad another day ; then, with a soft dry 
usb, rub off all the loose powder, and the figure 
^iil resemble the metal it is intended to represent^ 
and possess the quality of resisting the weather. 

"68. To Blue Swordsy Mourning BuckleSj irCm 

Take a piece of ^indstone and whetstone, and 
rub hard on the w^rk, to take off the black scurf 
from it; then beat it in the fire, aitd as it grows hot 
the colour changes by degrees, coming first to a light 
then to a dark gold colour, and lastly to a blue* — 
Indigo and salad oil, ground together, is also used, 
by rubbing the mixture on the work with a woollen 
cloth, while it is heating, leaving it to cool of itself. 

69. Compatition to take vff CaH& of Medals^ 

Melt eight ounces of sulphur over a gentle fire, 
rand mix it with a small quantity of fine -vermilion ; 
stir it well together, and it will dissolve like oil; 
then cast -it into the mould, which is first to be rub- 
bed over with oil. When cool, the figure may be 
taken, amd touched over with aquafartis, and it will 
look like fine coral. 

750. Method of Sweeping Chimnies wiikout employing 
Chiidren^ and thi danger attending the old method 
pointed out* 

Procure a rope for the purpose, twice the length 



T2 USEFUL ARtS. 

of the lieight of the chimney : to the middle of it tie 
a bush (broom, furze, or ainy other,) of sufficient 
size to fill the chimney, ^if there be any windings in 
it, tie a bullet or round stone to the end of the rope,) 
and introduce the wood end pi the bush after the 
rope has descended into the room ; then let a per- 
son pull it down. The bush, by the elasticity of 
its twigs, brushes the sides of the chimney as it de- 
scends, and carries the spot with it. If necessary^ 
the person at top, who has hold of the other end of 
the rope, draws the bush up again ; but, in this case, 
the person below must turn the bush, lo send the 
wood end foremost, before he calls to the person at 
top to pull it up. 

Many people who are silent to the calk of human- 
ity, are yet attentive to the voice of interest: chim- 
neys cleansed in this way never need a tenth part 
of the repairs required when they are swept by chil- 
dren, who, being obliged to work themselves up by 
pressing with their feet and knees on one side, and 
their back on the other, often force out the bricks 
which divide the chimnies. This is one of the cau- 
ses why, in many houses, a fire in one apartment al- 
ways fills the adjoining one with smoke, and some- 
times even the adjoining house. Nay, some hous- 
es have even been burnt by this means ; for, a foul 
tjhimney, taking fire, has been frequently known to 
communicate, by these apertures, to empty apart- i 

ments filled with timber, where, of course, it was not 
thought necessary to make any examination, after 
extinguishing the fire in the chimney where it began. 

71. New Method of clearing Feathers from their An- 

imal OIL ^ 

Take, for every gallon of clear water, a pound of ^ 

quick lime ; mix them well together; and, when the 
undissolved lime is precipitated in fine powder, pour ^ | 
off the clear lime-water for use at the time it is wan- ' 



I 



^e3. Put the feathers to be cleaned in arrtfther tub, 
and add to them a sufficient quantity of the citar 
liore- water to cover the feathers about three inches, 
Vhen well immersed and stirred therein. The fea* 
thers, when thoroughly moistened, will sink down, 
and should remain in the lune-water three or four 
lys; after which, the foul liquor should be sepa- 
' )d from the feathers, by laying thein on a sieve. 
The feathers should be afterwards well washed in 
clean water, and dried oa nets, the meshes being 
about the same 'fineness as those af cabbage nc t^ 
"The feathei^ mtist, fit>m time to time, be sh'dken on 
^he nets ; and, as they dry, they will fall through 
the meshes, and are to be celiected for use. Tb6 
admission of air wtU be serviceable in the drying, 
-and the wbdc process may be completed in about 
-three weeks. The feathers, after being thus pre- 
pared, will want nothing more than beating for u^ 
either for beds, bolsters, pillows, or cushions. 

72. To preserve the natural Colour in Petals ofdri* 

id iFlowtrs. 

Nothing more is necessary than to immerse the 
j^etals for some minutes in alcohol. The colours 
will fade at first ; but in a short time they will re^ 
fiurae their natural tint, and remain permanently 
^fixed. 

73. Art of gilding Iron or SleeU 

Dissolve in aqua regia, with the assistance of a 
liule heat, as much gold as "will fully saturate it: 
then, adding cream of tartar, form it into a paste. — 
Any bright piece of steel or iron, such as the blade 
of a knife or raz:or, &c. being first wetted with iva- 
ter, or saliva, and then rubbed with ihij* paste, wiJI 
be instantly gilded in a beautiful raanrrer; after 
which it is to be waiihed with cold water. If a thick- 
er coat of gold be desired, gold leaf may be laid on, 
*ad burnished hard, when it will adhere to the first 

G 



74 VSEFUL ARTS. 

gilding; and, if the nature of the thing gilded will 
admit of heat, by warniing it, but not so as to be- 
come red hot, and then burnishing it, any thickness 
of gilding may be easily added. 

74. J^ethod of Dry Gilding.^ 

Dry gilding, as it is called by some workmen, j&jt 
light method of gilding, by steeping linen rags nn. 
solution of gold, then burning them ; and with a 
piece of cloth dipped in salt water, rubbing the ash- 
es over silver intended to be gilt. This method re- 
quires neither much Jabor, nor mtich gold, and may 
be employed with advaiUage for carved work and 
ornaments. It-is not, however, durable. 

75. Composition for gilding Brass or Silver* 

Take two ounces of gum-lac, two ounces of ka- 
j<abe, or yellow amber, forty grains of dragon's 
bloodin 4ea]», half a drachm of safiron, and forty 
ounces .of ^od spirits of wine: infuse and digest 
the whole in the usual manner, and afterwards strain 
it through a linen cloth : when the varnish is used, 
the piece of silver or brass must be heated before it 
is applied : by this means it will assume a gold coir 
our, which is cleaned, when soiled, with a little 
4varm water. 

76. To make Shell Gold. 

Take the paring of leaf gold, or even the leaver 
themselves, and reduce them into an impalpable 
powder, by grinding them on ajnaHble with honey 9 
put this into shells where it will stick and dry ; 
when you want to use it, dilute it with gum water. 

N. B. Shell silver is made the same way. 

77. To clean Gold and restore its Lustre. 

Dissolve a little sal-ammoniac in urine ; boil your 
soiled gold thcjceiii, aod it will become cleM and 
brilliaat. 



VSlETVh ARTS. 75' 

7^0. To silver Glass Globes* 

Take two ounces of quicksilver, one ounce of 
bismuth, of tin and lead half an ounce of each : first 
put the tin and lead in fusion, then put in the bis- 
muth, and when.you perceive all in fusion, let it 
stand till almost' coM, and then pour in the quick- 
silver. 

After this take the glassglobe,* wiiich mast be 
very clean, and the inside free from dust, make a 
paper funnel, which put in the hole of the elobe, 
as near the glass as* you can, so that the amalgam, 
when you pour it in,- n^y not' splash and spot the 
glass: pour it in softly^- and- move it about that the 
amalgam may touch every wierfe ; if you find it 
begin to be curdly, hold it over a gentle heat, and 
it will flow again ; the cleaner and finer your globe 
is, this looking-glass will Be the better. 

7^. To cut Glass.' 

Take a red-hot shank of a tobacco-pipe^ lay it on 
the, edge of your glass, which will then begin to 
crack, then driaw the shank end a little gently be- 
fore, audit will follow any way you iraw your 
hand.' 

do.- Substitute for Hemp and Flax.' 

As hemp and flax (lint) is now very high-priced^ 
ijf the public would turn their attention- 16 the Urti- 
Ca Diocia (common nettle,)' an excellent hemp 
might be obtained from it, by cutting it just before 
the seed is ripe, and steeping it in water, as they 
do hemp or flax, and manufacturing it the same 
way ; the root of the plant is esteemed to be diure- 
tic, and the roots, boiled with alum, will dye yarn 
8i yellow colour. It is likewise used by making a 
strong decoction of the young plant, and salt put to 
it, and bottled up, which will coagulate milk, and 
make it very agreeable ; by which means that plant,' 



76 PIIOCESS RELATING TO IRON^ 

ivbich is an obnoxious weed, might be turned tt)- 
i;ood account* 

USEFUL PROCESS RELATIVE .TO IRON*. 

jH. TQbraz& or solder Pieces of Iron* 

This is done by means of thin plates of brass^ 
nelted between the pieces that are to be joined.. 
If the work be very fine, Sis when two leaves of a 
broken saw are to be brazed together, cover it with, 
pulverized borax, melted with water ; that it may 
incorporate with the brass powder which is added 
to it: the piece must be then exposed to the fire 
without touching the coals, and heated till the bras&. 
i{» seea to run. 

$3. Sicedisk Melho^/br preMri>{ng^ from Rust IrOn^ 

Work exposed to Jlir. 

They take such a quantity of pitch and tar as they 
think they have occasion for, and mix up with it 
such a quantity of the best sort of soot as not ta, 
make it too thick for- use ; with this composition they 
paint or besmear all the parts of the iron work, for 
which purpose they make use of short hftrd brushes, 
because they must press pretty strongly upon the 
iron in order to give it a sufficient quantity, and they 
always choose to perform this operation in the 
spring time of the year, because tlie moderate heat 
of the season hardens the pitch so much that it is 
never melted by the succeeding heals of the sum-*- 
jner, but, on the contrary, acquires such a gloss as 
to Ibok like varnish. This has been found, by ex^ 
perience, to preserve iron from rust much better 
than any sort of paint, and is as cheap as any that 
can be made use of. 

83. Composition that will effectually prevent Iron^ 

Steely 4^c. front rusting* 

This method consists in mixing, with fat oil vai> 



USEFUL ARtS. TU 

nisb, four-fifths of well rectified spirit of turpentine,* 
The varnish is to be applied by means of a sponge ;^ 
and articles varnished in this manner will retain their 
metallic brilliancy, and never contract any spots of 
rust. It may be applied to copper, and to the 
preservation of philosophical instruments ; which, 
ty bciing brought into contact with water, are lia- 
ble to lose their splendour, and become tarnished* 

84. To prevent Steel or Iron from Rusi, 

Take one pound of hog's lard free from salt, one 
ounce of camphire, two drachms of black lead pow- 
der, and two drachms of dragon's blood in fine pow- 
der ; melt the same on a slow fire until it is dissolv- 
ed, and let it cool for use., 

85. To prevent polished Hardware and Cutlery from^ 

taking Rustm 

Case-knives, snuffers, watch-chains, and other 
small articles made of steel, may be preser\'ed from 
rust, by being carefully wiped after use, and then 
wrapped in coarse brown paper, the virtue of which 
issuch, that all hardware goods from Sheffield, Bir- 
mingham, &LC. are always wrapped in the same*. 

86. To clear Iron from Rust*. • 

Pound some glass to fine powder, and having nail- 
ed some strong linen or woollen cloth upon a board,, 
lay upon it a strong coat, of gum water, and sift 
thereon some of your powdered glass, and let it 
dry ; repeat this operation three times, and when. 
the last covering of powdered glass is dry, you may' 
easily rub off" the rust, from iron utensils, with the 
cloth thus prepared.. 

S7. To soften Ivory and 'Bones. 

Take sage, boil it in strong vinegar, Strain the 
decoction through a piece of close cloth ; and when 
jou have a mind to soften bones or ivory, steej) 

o2 • * 



78 USEFUL ARTS. 



/ 



them in this lifiuor, and the longer they remain in it 
the softer they will grow. 

SB* Use/id Hint» to Lamplighters. -i 

As mafty accidents happen in the winter time by 
the sliding of ladders, the scirae would never occuf, 
if the following simple method was generally adopts 
ed. " If a strong nail was put in the top of the lad- 
der,, in an horizontal position, accidents could nev* 
er happen, as, when the ladder slides, the nail 
would catch the lamp iron." 

89-.: Improved Method of taking off Impressions of" 

Leaves^ Plants^ <J^e. 

Talfe half a sheet of fine wove paper, and oil it' 
well with sweet oil ; after it has stood a minute or 
two, to let it soak through, rub off the superfluous, 
oil with a piece of paper, and let it hang in the air 
ip dry ; after the oil is pretty well dried in,, take a, 
lighted candle or lamp, and move the paper slowly 
over it, in an horizontal direction, so as to touch 
the flame, till it is perfectly black. When you wish 
to take off impressions of plants, lay your plant care- 
fully on the oiled paper, and lay a piece of clean 
paper over it, and rub it with your finger, equally* 
in all parts, for about half a minute ; then take up. 
"your plant, and be careful not to disturb the order 
of the leaves, and place it on the book or paper, on 
which you wish to have the impression ;. then cover 
it with a piece of blouing-paper, and rub it with your 
finger for a short time, and you will have an impres- 
sion supcrfor to the finest engraving. The same 
piece of black paper will serve to take offa great 
number of impressions ; so that when you have once 
gone through the process of blacking it, you may 
ipake an impression in a very short time. 

The principal excellence of thia method is, that 
the paper receives the impression of the most mi- 
s.utc veii^ and bairs \ so that you may takfi the ge^ 



\ 



ffSEPOt ARTS. f^ 

neral character of most flowers, much superior tOL 
any engraving. The impressions may afterward$. 
be coloured according to nature. 



90. To obtain the tme Shape and. Fibres of a Ltaf*. 

Rub the back of it gently with any hard sub- 
stance, so as to bruise the fibres ; then apply a 
1^' small quantity of linseed oil to their edges; after- 

which, press the leaf on white paper, and, upon re- 
moving it, a perfectly correct representation of eve- 
ry ramification will appear,. a«d the whole may be 
coloured from the original.. 

91. Another tmy. 

This may be called printing of a leaf, and is ^f- 
fected by carefully touching the fibres with one of 
those balls, lightly covered with printer's ink, and. 
impressing it on wet paper. This is done to most 
advantage by a round stick, covered with woolleti 
cloths, rolled baclcwards,and forwards over the pa- 
per and leaf.. 

92. To TxyhiUn Linseed OIL 

Take any quantity of linseed oil, and to- every 
gallon add two ounces of litharge ; shake it up eve- 
ry day for fourteen days, then let it settle a day or 
two ; pour off the clear into shallow pans, the same 
as dripping pans, first putting half a pint of spirits, 
of turpentine to each gallon. Place it in the sun, 
and in three days it will be white as nut oil. This 
oil, before it is bleached, and without the turpen- 
tine, is. far superior to the best boiled, oil, there be^ 
ing no waste or offensive smell. 

S3. Sophistication of Oil of Lavender and all Esstn^ 

iial Oils. 

These valuable oils are frequendy adulterated by 

y a mixture of oil of turpentine, which may be known 

by dipping a little paper^ or rag; in the oil to be 



dO U&EFUL ART^ 

tried, and holding it to the (ire, the fine scented.oil 
will fast evaporate, and leave the smell of the tur- 
pentine distinguishable, if any has been mixed 
therewith. 

94. Simple Way of determining the exact Time of 
Noon, and to obtain a Meridian Line, on a small 
Scale, 

Near the top of a room, facing the- south, f5x a 
plate of metal, with a circular hole in it, for the sun. 
to shine through, from eight or nine o'clock in the 
morning until three or four in the afternoon ; then, . 
by means of a line and a plummet, determine the 
point upon the floor, which is directly under ther 
centre of the hole, and from that point, as a cen- 
tre, drawseveral concentric circles. Having made- 
choice of some cleaR day near the summer solstice,, 
make the room nearly dark, and about three or four 
hours before and after noon, mark the points whero- 
the northern, as aWo th& southerniimb of the sun's 
image cross those semicircles, and there will be 
several curves included between these points, 
through the middle of which a right line being drawn;, 
from the centre of the semicircles, is a meridian line.. 
After the line has been drawn in this manner, iL 
must be examined by succeeding observations, and. 
corrected, if necessary, by which means a line may. 
be drawn exceedingly near the true meridian. 

Practical Observations on the above. 

1. The metal plate, which may be about one- 
fifth of an inch thick, must be placed parallel to the 
axis of the world,, that the sun's rays may pass per- 
pendicularly through ft when he is in the equator. 

2« The aperture need not be more than one^fifth 
of an inch in diameter, if it be countersunk on both 
sides, to admit the sun's rays to flow through it at, 
the distance of three or four, hours before, and aftcr- 

QOOO* . 



3; If the surface of the floor, on which the obser- 
vations are to be taken for finding the meridian, be* 
not sufficiently even, the floor may be covered with 
new boards, taking the greatest care that they aqe 
laid down perfectly horizontal from east to west. 
After the line has been correctly drawn, and the 
north and south ends of it marked upon the walls of 
the room, the boards may be taken away, and oth- 
ers laid down to draw the lines upon. 

A meridian line, upon a small scale, but sufli^ 
oiently correct for regulating clocks and watches^ 
may be had by the following method : 

Let a stone, with an even surface, about three 
feet long and two broad, be fixed horizontally upon 
a brick or stone pillar, at a convenient height for- 
observation, with one of its ends facing the south. 
Near the middle of this end of the stone fix a gno- 
mon in a direction perpendicular to the horizon. 
This g^iomon, which should be made of a strong 
bar of metal, must have a small aperture through it, 
for the sun?s rays to flow through early in the morn- 
ing and late in the evening. Ff'om that point, as a- 
centre, which is directly under this aperture, draw 
geveral' concentric. semicircles, and fix the meridian^t 
fine accofding lo the preceding directions. The 
gnomon should have several other holes made 
through it in a line perpendicular to the horizon, that 
the sun's rays at noon, flowing through some of 
them, may fall near the north end of the stone at all 
seasons of the year; for^ if only one hole be used, 
tjie sun's image will fall near the centre of the gno- 
mon in the summer, and in the winter it will be 
thrown far beyond the north end of the stone. 

95. German Method of making Elm and Maph^ 

Wood resemble Mahogany* ^ 

* Having very smoothly, planed whatever boards 
of the elm or maple tree are intended to be used for^ 
tke purpose of appearing like mahogany, wash th&txt 



8@^ USEFUL ARTSV 

well with a little aquafortis diluted in cooimon Wti«' 
ter. Then take a few drams of dragon's blood, ac-* 
cording to the quantity which may be wanted in the 
whole, with half as much alkanet root, and a quar- . 
ter of as much aloes, and digest these ingredients 
in four ounces of proof spirit to every dram of the 
dragon's blood*- As soon as the boards are dry, 
varnish them^over with this tincture bj^^means of a* 
sponge or soft painter's brush; and they will, it is.- 
said, ever aftep so wear the appearanee of mahoga- 
ny as to- deceive the eye of any indifferent observer.* 

96.' Substitute for Mahogany.* 

The difficulty of procuring mahogany ahd other 
precious woods, and the consequent exorbitant 
prices demanded for the ordinary articles of family 
convenience, has occasioned the art of the chemist 
to be applied to a subject peculiarly calculated to 
promote domestic embellishment' at' a ti*iffing ex- 
pense^- R has Been^ contrived^ to render any spe-- 
cies of Wood of a close grain, so nearly to resemble 
mahogany in the texture, density, and polish, that 
the most accurate jwdges are incapable of distln-- 
guisbing between this happy imitation, and the na- 
tive produce.- The first operation, as now practis-- 
ied in France, is to plane tne surface, so as to render 
it perfectly smooth ; the wood is then to be rubbed* 
with diluted nitrous acid, which prepares it for the 
materials subsequentiy to be applied. Afterwards, 
one au!>cc and a half of dragon's blood, dissolved 
ih a pint' of spirits of wine, and one third of that 
quantity of carbonate of soda, are to be mixed to- 
gether, and filtered-; and the liquid, in this thin 
state, is to be rubbedj or rather laid, upon the wood, 
with a 99ft brush,' This- process is repeated with 
vyy little alteration, and in a short interval after- 
wards, the wood possesses the external appearance 
of mahogany. When this application has beefv* 
properly made, the surface will resemble a^artifi^- 



i. 



VSEFVL ARTS. 93 

-cial mirror ; but if the polish become less brilliant, 
-by rubbing it with a little cold drawn linseed oil, the 
wood will be restored to its former brilliancy. 

97. 'To clarify Quills » 

Scrape off the outer film, and cut the ends off ; 
then put the bafrels into boiling water, wherein is 
^ small quantity of alum and sdlt ; let them remain 
a quarter of an hour, and then dry them in a hot 
pan of sand or an oven. 

98. To hardenQuillsm 

In order to harden a quill that is soft, thrust the 
•barrel into hot ashes, stirrinz it till it is soft ; and 
then taking it out, press it almost flat upon your 
-knee with the back of ^a pen-knife, and afterwards 
reduce it to a roundness with your fingers. Another 
.method to harden quills is by setting water and alum 
over the fipc, and while it is boiling, put in a hand- 
• ful of quills, the barrels only, for a minute, andtbea 
Jay them by. 

,99. Dutch Method of preparing Goose Quills foir 

Writing. 

The process consists in immersing the quill, when 
plucked from the wing of the biro, into water al- 
most boiling ; to leave it there till it becomes suffi- 
ciently soft to compress it, turning it on its axis with 
the back of the blade of the knife^ This kind of 
friction, as well as the imnpiersions in water, being 
continued till the barrel of the quill be Iransparent, 
and the membrane, as well as the greasy kind of 
covering, be entirely removed, it is immer3ed a last 
time to render it perfectly cylindrical, which is per- 
formed with the index finger and the thumb ; it is 
then dried in a gentle temperature. 

iO§. Substitute for Currier'^s OiL 

A cbea^p substitute for the oil used by curriers in 



t4 irsErut AKts. 

,the preparation of leather, is made by boiling tvbalo 
oil for a. few minutes, at a temperature of twent)^. 
five degrees Reaumer, with nitric acid, in the pro^ 
portion of half an ounce of the acid to a pound -df 
t)iU 

401. To repair Roads neat to C^al Mines. 

The roads to and from coal mines are usually in 
bad condition from the heavy loads passing in carts 
*over them. The late Duke of Bridgewater, tore* 
pair them, adopted, with great success, the follow* 
ing plan, at Worsley, in Lancashire. The stones, 
clay, arid rubbish, first raised fi*om the shaft, were 
laid in a large heap above ground ; then, such ia- 
ferior coal, pyrites, or shale, as was unfit for sale, 
and usually thrown away, was laid in another neat 
it ; a third heap was raised from a -mixture made by 
laying repeated layers from the above two heap% 
stratum super stratum, and this heap, set on fire in 
such a direction that the wind would assist the fire 
to penetrate it throughout. The mass, when burnt, 
formed a compound of half vitrified substances, and 
abundantly supplied good materials for his drag^ 
paths along the canal, and enabled him to sell the 
surplus advantageously for the repair of the turnpike 
Toads in that neighbourhood. 

1 05. Easy Method of making a saponaceous LiqnicLf 
which may he used instead of SolMons of Soap for 
Washing* 

Take the ashes produced from the combustion of 
wood which has not been floated, and make a ley of 
them, according to the usual manner, mixing with 
the ashes a handful or two of quick lime, well pound- 
ed or recently slacked. Let the ley stand till it is 
grown clear by the settling or swimming of the for- 
eign substances contained therein ; then pour it into 
another vessel, and keep it for use. When it is 
j}ropo&ed-to -make use -of this lejr, take any quantity 



USKJTUL ARTS* 86 

of oil, and pour upon It thirty or forty times as much 
as of the ley. Immediately a liquor, white as milk, 
«rill be formed, which, by being well shaken, or 
stirred, lathers and froths like a good solution of 
soap. Thi:i liquor is to be poured into a washing 
tub, or other vessel, and to be diluted with a great- 
er or less quantity of water; after which, the linen, 
meant to be washed, is to be steeped therein, to be 
rubbed and wrung in the usual way. 

Observations on the foregoing Receipt • 

1. It is better that the ley should not be made 
until the time when it is to be used ; if it is left to 
stand in open vessels, its power is weakened, and its 
nature changed. 

2. Fresh wood-ashes are preferable to old ones, 
particularly if the latter have been exposed to the 
air; in that case they have no longer their usual 
power ; and in order to make them serve the pur- 
"pose, raix^lU'ith them a greater proportion of quick 
lime. 

3. Those ashes are preferable which are pro- 
duced from hard wood : those which are left after 
the burning of floated wood, cannot be made use of 
with equal success. 

4. Fat oils, of a thick consistence, are most pro- 
per for the purpose here spoken of; fine thin oils 
are by no means fit for it. 

If stinking oil be made use of it is apt to give a 
bad smell to the linen : this may be removed by 
passing the linen carefully through a strong pure 
ley ; but, in general, this smell goes off as the linen 
becomes dry. 

6. When the mixture of the oil with the ley is of 
a yellow colour, it must ha diluted with water. 

7. When the oil rises in the ley, and swims upon 
the surface of it, in the form of small drops, it shews 
that the oil is not fit for the purpose, not being thick 
enough ; or else, that the ley is too weak, or not 
sufficiently caustic. 



86 USEFUL ARTS* 

8. To prevent the quick lime from losing rts 
power, and to have always some in use when want- 
ed, it may be broken into small pieces, and kept 
In bottles well dried and well corked, or in bar- 
rels. 

103. Method of extracting St<irchfrom Horse Ches- 

nuts. 

First take oflf the outward green prickly busks, 
and then, either by hand, ^with a knife, or other tool, 
or else with a mill adapted for dhat purpose, very 
carefully pare off the brown rind, being particular 
not to leave the smallest speck, and to entirely era- 
dicate the sprout or growth. Next take the nuts, 
and rasp, grate, or grind them fine into water, ei- 
ther by hand, or by a mill adapted for that purpose. 
The pulp, which is thereby formed in this water, 
must be washed as clean as possible through a 
coarse horse-hair sieve, then again thrgjjglr a finer 
sieve, and again through a still finer, con%t|ntIy ad- 
ding clean water to prevent any starch adhering to 
the pulp. The last process is to put it with a large 
quantity of water -(about four gallons to a pound of 
starch) through a fine gauze, muslin, or lawn, so as 
entirely to clear it of all bran or other impurities-;: 
as $oon as it settles, pour oiTthe water; then mix it 
up with clean water, repeating this operation till ft 
no longer imparts any green, yellow, or other colour 
to the water ; then drain it off till nearly dry, and set 
it to bake, cither in the usual mode of baking starch, 
or else spread out before a brisk fire, being very at- 
tentive to stir it frequently to prevent its horning, 
that is to say, turning to a paste or jelly, which, oa 
being dried, turns hai-d like horn. The whole pro- 
cess should be conducted as quickly as possible. 

104. To dissolve Wax in Water. 

To ev^ry pound of white wax take twenty-four 
ounces of pot-ash dissolved in a gallon of warm wa- 
ter ', that is caustic ley of pot-asb, made with quick 



irSEFUb ARTS. i7 

Umo. In this boil the wax, cut ia small pieces, iot 
half an hour ; at the end of this time take it from 
the fire, and suffer it to cool. The wax floats on- 
the surface in the form of white. soap; triturated 
with water it yields what is commonly called milk 
(if wax ^ and may be applied to furniture^ pictures, 
&c. An hour after the application, the coated parts 
are to be mbbed with a piece of woollen clotb> 
which will give a great brilliancy to pai^tings^ and 
a fine polish to furniture. 

105. Ta maktWaftrs. 

Take very fine flour, mix it with the glair, (or 
T^'hites) of eggs, isinglass, and a litde yeast ; mingle 
the materi$iu7 beat them well together, spread the 
batter, being made thin with gni?^ water, on even 
tin plates, and dry them in a stove 5 then cut them 
for use. You may make them of what colour you 
please, by tinging the paste with Brazil or Vermil- 
lion for red; indigo or verditer, &c. for blue ; saf- 
fron, turmeric, or gamboge, &c. for yellow. 



CHAPTER IV. 
BIRB'CATCHim. 



1 06. Method' of making the best sort of Bird Lime, 

and manner of using it. 

Take, at midsumer, the bark of holly, and peel 
from the tree so much of it as will fill a moderately 
large vessel ; then put to it running water, and set 
it over the fire, and boil it till the gray and white 
bark rise from the green, which will take up sixteen 
hours ; tj»en separate the barks ^after the water is 
well drained awqy : then take all the green barb? 



S9 BIED-CATCHING. 

and lajr it on the ground in a close place and moist 
floor, and cover it over with green weeds, as hem-* 
locks, docks, thistles, and the like ; thus let it la; 
•ten or twelve days, in ^vhich time it will rot, and 
turn to a filthy, slimy matter ; then put it into a mor- 
4ar,dnd beat it till it becomes universally thick and 
Xougb, without the discerning of any part of the bark 
<Mr substance ; then take it out of the mortar and car- 
fy it to a running stream, and there wash it well, 
-not leaving any foulness about it 5 then put it up in 
•a close earthen pot, and let it stand and purge for 
divers days together, scumming it as often as any 
foulness arises for four or five days ; when you per* 
ceive no more scum, then take it out of that pot and 
^jMitLit into another clean earthen vessel, cover it 

tlose, an Jkeep irtbrnrs^T— — ^^ — 

When you want to use your lime, take what 

auantity you think fit, and put it into a pipkin, ad- 
ing a third part of goose or capon's grease, finely 
clarified, and set them over a gentle fire ; let them 
welt together, and stir them continually, till they 
are well incorporated ; then take it from the fire, 
and stir it tilt it be cold. 

When your lime is cold, take your rods and warm 
tfa^m a little over the fire ; then take your lime and 
wind it about the tops of your rods, then draw your 
lods asunder one from the other, and close them 
again, continually plying and working them togeth- 
er, till, by smearing one upon another, you have 
ec[ually bestowed upon each rod a sufficient pro- 
portion of the lime. 

If you lime any strings, do it when the lime is 
very hot, and at the thinnest, besmearing the strings 
on all sides, by folding them together and unfolding 
them again. 

If you lime straws, it must be done likewise when 
the lime is very hot, doirtg a great quantity togeth^ 
er, as many as you can well grasp in your hand, 
tossing them and working them before the fir« till 



tkey arc all besni£ared, every straw having ita^ due 
proportion of lime. Having so dooe^ put tbem in. 
cases of leather till you have occasion to use 
tbem. 

To fHrevent the fi^ezing of yoiu: lime, either on 
twigs, bushes, or straws^ you must add a quacter as 
much of the oil of petroleum, as of capoo^s grease, 
iBixing them well together, and then work it on yew 
rods, &c. ; and so it will ever keep supple, tough,- 
and gentle, and will not be prejuclicea. should the 
weatoer freeze ever so hard^ . 

107. Experienced method of catching Larks. 

The common way of taking larks, of which so 
many are used at our tables, is in the night, with 
those nets which are called transmels.^ These are 
usually made of thirty-six ^^ards in length, and about . 
six yards over, with six ribs of packthread, which, 
at the ends are put upon two poles of about sixteen 
feet long, and 'made lesser at each end. . These are 
to be drawn over the grotind by two men, and every 
five or six steps the net is made to touch the ground,., 
otherwise it will pass over the birds without touch- 
ing them, and they will escape. When they are 
felt to fly up against. the net, it is ciaipped down, 
9»d they are all safe that are under it. The d^rk-^ 
est nights are properest for tbi& s^port ; and the net 
will not only take larks, but all other birds that 
roost on the ground, among which are woodcocks,, 
snipes, partridges, quails, fieldfares, and several; 
oilirs. , 

108. . Another Method. . 

Jn ibrd^pthof winter^ pciople sometimes take - 
g^at numbers of larks by pooses of horsct-bair* — 
The method isthi^: take 100 or 200 yards ofT 
packthread $ faaieo, at every six iacbeS| a noose 
made of dduble horset-harr ; at every twenty yards . 
the line \^ to be pegged down to the ground, and so 

u;2.. 



'B6 BLEACHIlRa. 

left ready to take thera. The time to use this is 
when the ground is covered with snow, and the 
larks are to be allured to it by some white oats 
scattered all the way among the nooses. They 
lanst be taken away as soon aa three or four are 
bung, otherwise the rest will be frighted ; but tho^ 
the others are seared where the sportsman comes, 
Ihey will be feeding at the other end of the line, 
and. the sport may be thus continued for a long 
lime. 



CHAPTER V. 
BLEJKHIJfG. 



109. Method of bleaching Strazo^* 

Dip the straw in a solution of oxygenated muri- 
atic acid, saturated with potash. (Oxygenated mu- 
riate of linie is much cheaper.) The straw is thus 
tendered very white, and its flexibility is increased. 

110. Efficacy of Horse ChesntUs in bltaehing Ldnen 
and clearing Woollen Stuffs^ and as a Ley for pre^ 
paring Hemp. 

The manner of making this ley is to peel the 
chesnuts, and rasp them as fine as possible into soft 
water. This is done ten or twelve hours before the 
mixture is to be used; and, in the mean while, it is 
«tirred from time to time, the better to dissolve 
these raspings and impregnate the water. The last 
stirring is given about a quarter of an hour before 
the water is drawn off from the thickest part of the 
raspihgs which subside ; and this is done either by 
ihclinitig the vessel and pouring off the ley gently, 
or by ladling it out by hand, while the water is yet 



y 



i 



BLBACSflTG. 9f 

white^ and frod&s like soap-suds. In order to use 
this ley, it is made rattier notter than the hand can 
well faiear, and the hemp is then steeped and' wash- 
ed in it as in soep-suds». Linens may also be washed 
in this ley^ and even when very dkty much less 
soap will be- required than is. commonly used; it be- 
ing sufficient to rub the dirtiest parts only with soap. 
The rasprngs of the chesnuts,. which sink to the 
bottom of the ley,. ace good for fowls and pig9«r- 
Hemp, as above prepared, may be dyed like silk^. 
wool, or cotton,, and may be made into stuff and 
garments of ail kinds ; a great advantage attending; 
the use of this material is, that it will not be de- 
stroyed by those Insects which, devour woollen 
cloth.. 



111. To hUach Be es- Waxs, 

Melt your wax, and while hot throw it into cold^ 
water to reduce it into little bits, or spread it out in-, 
to very thin leaves, and lay it out to the air, night 
t and day, on linen cloths, then melt it over again, 

* and expose it as before : repeat this till the sun and 

I ^lew have bleached it ; then, for the last time, melt 

it in a kettle, and cast it with a ladle on a table cov- 
ered, over with little round hollows, in the form of 
the cakes sokl by the apothecaries ; but first, wet 
your moulds with cold water, that the wax be the 
easier got out ; lastly, lay them out in the air for 
I two days and two nights, to make it more transpa- 

I seat and drier«. 



92 BOO£S. 

CHAP. VL 
BOQKS. 



IT 2. JPor taking grease mit of the leaves of Books* 

Fold up in two small bags, made of fine opea 
muslin, some ashes of burnt bones, finely powdered, 
or of calcined hartshorn, which is always ready 
pi-eparedat the shops of the druggists ; lay the bags 
of muslin, containing the powder, one on each side 
of the greasy leaf; and having heated ar pair of fire 
tongs, or hair-dresser's pinching tongs, of a mode- 
rate warmth, press witb them the t^ro bags against 
the greasy spot, and hold them some time in that 
sitoatiotu Repeat the process, if necessary. 

When the irons cannot be- conveniently used, the 
powder may be heated over the fire, in a clean ear- 
then vessel; and, whilst.hot, applied, without any 
muslins, on each side of the grease . spot, and a. 
weight laid on it to assist it^.efiect. . 

113. Method ofeUaning dirty Prmis or Books* 

If the print should be pasted upon canvas, put it- 
into a copper or kettle of water just boiling ; and in. 
three or four minutes it will easily separate irom the - 
canvas ; next expose it to the sun, by placing it on 
a grass plat, anid, to prevent the wind from having, 
any efiect upon.it, so as to tear it, or blow it away, 
fix four skewers into the ground near the corners, , 
and tie a string to each of the skewers, crossed from 
corner to corner, so as to confine it completely ; 
ivhen it becomes dry, wet it again thoroughly ; and 
so on for several days, if necessary, in the same 
manner as you bleaciv linen ; , in which operation, 
as well as in bleaching /?rm/5, a hot sun is best. If 
the faulness of the jt?rm/ should settle inspotSj soafc:? 



BOOKS. 93 

those spots well by putting wet linen rags doubled 
upon them for a considerable time. If soaking in 
this manner docs not get the spots out, putihe print 
into hot water, gently boiling, or very near it, and 
let it continue for twenty-four hours ; but if the pa- 
per be spongy, or very thin, it will not bear soaking 
so long. Soaking in this manner is seldom neces- 
sary. The foulness from flies may be gently brush- 
ed off with a wet sponge, when the print is thorough- 
ly soaked. Spirit of sea salt, much diluted, will 
get white- wash off" prints : take care not to hold 
your nose over the vapor of the spirit. Do not 
leave youv prints on the grass-plat at night, for fear 
of the worms. 

114. To make strong, or Book-Binder'^ s Pastes 

Mix wheaten flour, first irr cold water, then- boil 
it till it be of a glutinous consistence ; this method 
makes common paste. When you wish it to be of 
a stronger nature, mix a fourth, fifth, or sixth of the 
weight of the flour of powdered alum ; and where it 
is wanted of a still more tenacious quality, add a 
little powdered posin. 

115. To marble Books or Paper. 

Marbling of books or paper is performed thus r 
Dissolve four ounces of gum arable in two quarts of 
fair water; then provide several colours mixed with 
water in pots or shells, and with pencils peculiar to 
each colour ; sprinkle them by way of intermixture 
upon the gum water, which must be put into a 
trough, or some broad vessel ; then, with a stick, 
curl them, or draw them out in streaks to as much 
variety as may be done. Having done this, hold 
your bQok, or books, close together, and only dip 
the edges in, on the top of the water and colours, ve- 
ry lightly ; which done, take them ofi*, and the plain 
impression of the colours in mixture wilt be upon 
thi& leaver ; doing as well the ends as the front af 



94*' BREtVlNffi 



the book in the like manner, and afterwards glaz^ 
ing.the colours. 



CHAPTER VII. 

BREtVmG, 
A^^D MANAGExMENT OF MALT LIQUORS; 



1-16. Mlceties in Mulling, the Observance of which 
zoill increase iht profits of the Maltster near Ten 
per Cent* 

In malting^ bariey, the water should be changed - 
oftenest in spring and 'autumn, when the weather is 
warm : if barley is left to steep too long at these 
seasons in the same water, the water will grow- 
&limy, and sometinves sour: the maltster should' 
therefore watch the change of the water, and when 
he finds it smooth or oily to the touch, or inclining' 
tt> smelt or taste sour, it-must be changed immedi- 
ately. 

The common' ttiethbd of changng it; is first to 
draw off that in which the barley was steeping, and 
then by pumping or pails full^ fill thp cistern again: 
but this is a bad way, for when the. water is drawn 
off the bartey lies closer, and is apt to heat, which 
causes great damage. It is therefore recommended 
to get a hogshead of water in readiness near the 
cistern, which should be- riirown on the barley the 
instant the first water is drawn off; and as a hogs- 
head of water is sufficient to- wet eight bushels of 
barley, ae* many hogsheads, save one, should be af- 
terwards added, as- the cistern will wet. 

River water is the best, and^ hard spring water is 
the worst : in general the water that soonest latbexs 
should be preferred. 



:A thin-skinned fioe-t^oated barley is the best for 
inaking malt; it need not be very fuil-bodied, but 
should be quit^ ripe. 

Barley that has grown on land highly manured is 
not so good as that produced on a land moderately 
rich withourmanure ; and if the soil is very luxuri- 
ant, either }by-nature or art, the barley will not be 
fit for the maltster* 

Jt is a good practice to give malt as much drying 

as possible on the floor; it does not shrink so much 

as on the kiln, and acquires no foreign taste ; when 

it comes to the kiln, the fire in the furnace should 

*be moderate, but equal. 

Brown malt, usedinthe same proportion as pale, 
will not make the strongest beer; but the pale maks 
that are slack dried, make a raw unwholesome li- 
quor that will not keep. 

Maltsters should never buy barley grown on va- 
rious soils, or even different fields, because the 
kerns will spire at different times; they should 
therefore never'buy tythe barley. A maltster hav- 
ing bought one hundred quarters of tythe barley, 
without knowing it, soon discovered it in the mak- 
ing, and sold it to a hog-feeder for eight- pence a 
quarter less than he gave, as the least loss he should 
incur by his bargain. 

To discover whether malt has been made of mix- 
ed or unripe barley, throw a couple of handfuls of 
it into a bowl of water ; stir it gently, and the grains 
that have not been malted will sink, the half-malted 
grains Jwill have one end sunk, and so swim in a 
perpendicular position, and those that are perfectly 
malted will swim. The best barley will not malt 
equally well at all times. As soon as housed, be- 
fore it is in sweat, and after the sweating is over, it 
will malt well, but not while it is in sweat. 

Barley that has been got in early in a very dry 
season malts but indifferently ; but if the same bar- 
Jey is left abroad till rain falls on it to loos on the 



98 ^REWIKTG. 

liusks from the kerael^ it will malt well, and yield a 
large increase. 

117, Method of extracting the virtue of Hops in 

"Brewing. 

The usual ;inethoe is to put in hops without any 
preparation into the strong beer or ale wort ; the 
consequence is, the^ richer and better the wort is, 
the less it will partake of the essence of the hops,. 
The rich fat wort sheathes up the. pores of the hop, 
and, as it were, embalms the leaves, so that the 
beer or ale wort can extract scarcely any part of the 
necessary quality of the hop ; but when it is put in- 
4o the small beer wort, a fluid of a. more thin na- 
ture, there the pores are unsheathed, and the small 
beer is rendered too bitter ; therefore the hops, be- 
fore they are put into the strong drink, should be 
^:)reviously soaked in a pail of hot water. 

To confirm the truth of this observation, take a 
quarter of an ounce of the best green tea, and in- 
stead of pouring on it simple boiling water, let -the 
water have the same quantity of sugar boiled in it 
that would be necessary to sweeten so inuch tea 
when made, and you will find that the sweetness of 
vthe water will prevent its extracting the grateful 
bitter of the tea. 

118. Cheap and easy Method of Brewing. 

One bushel of malt, and three quarters of a pound 
of bops will, on an average, brew twenty gallons 
of good beer* 

For this quantity of malt, boil twenty-four gal- 
lons of water; and having dashed it in the copper 
with cold water to stop the boiling, steep the malt 
(properly covered up) for three hours ; then tie up 
the hops in a hair cloth, and boil malt, hops, and 
wort, all together, for three quarters of an hour, 
^'hich will reduce it to about twenty galls. Straia 
itoflF, and set it to work when lukevvariii. 



In large brewings this process perhaps would not 
answer, but in small ones, where the waste is not so 
great, and where the malt can be boiled, the essence 
is sure to be extracted^ 

119. To make excellent and nholesome Table Beer. 

To eight quarts of boiling water put a pound of 
treacle, a quarter of an ounce of ginger, and two 
bay leaves ; let this boil for a quarter of an hour, 
ihen cool, and work it with yeast, the same as other 
beer. 

1 20. Uses of Ground Ivy in Ale, <$^c. 

The leaves thrown into the vat with ale clarify 
it, and give it an antiscorbutic quality. The expres* 
sed juice mixed with a little wine, and applied 
morning and evening, destroys the white specks oa 
horses' eyes* 

121 • / To make GingiT Beer* 

^ To every gallon of spring water add one ounc« of 
V sliced white ginger, one pound of common loaf su- 
gar, and two ounces of lemon juiee, or three large 
iahlespoonfuls ; boil it near an hour, and take off 
the sciim ; then run it through a hair sieve into a 
, tub, and when cool (viz. 70 degrees) add yeast ia 
proportion of half a pint to nine gallons ; keep it 
|- in a temperate situation two days, during which it 

j '■ may be stirred six or eight times ; then put it into a 
cask, which must be kept full, aiul the yeast taken 
^ off at the bung-hole with a spoon. In a fortnight add 

I half a pint of fining (isinglass picked and steeped in 

f beer) to nine gallons, winch will, if it has been pro- 

perly fermented, clear it by ascent. The cask mu&t 
^ be kept full, and the rising particles taken off at the 

^ bung-hole* When fine (which may be expected in 

twenty-four hours) bottle it, cork it well, and in 
summer it will be ripe and fit to drink in a fortnight. 



^ I 



.98 1BR£WIN«. 

122, To make Yeast or Barm. 

V / Mix two quarts of soft water with wheat flour, to 
/ ' the consistence of thick gruel, or soft hasty pudding ; 
boil it gently for half an hour, and wnen almost 
cold^ stir into it half a pound of sugar, and four 
spoonfuls of good yeast. Put k into a large jug, or 
earthen vessel, with a narrow top, and place it be- 
fore the fire, so that it may, by a moderate heat, fer- 
ment. The fermentation will throw up a thin li- 
auor, which pour off and throw away ; the remain- 
er keep for use in a cool place in a bottle, or jug 
tied over. The^ame quantity of 'Common yeast wiB 
suffice to bake or brew with. Four spoonfuls of 
ibis win make afresh quantity as before. 

123. Svhstitute for Barm or Yeast. 

[This receipt was presented to the October Meet- 
ing of the Manchester Agricultural Society, held 
at Altringham, 1809, by Charles Lownds, Esq. 
when it was ordered that a <:opy should be print- 
ed for each member. J 

Boil two ounces of hops iti four quarts of water 
twenty minutes ; strain it, and whilst hot stir in half 
a pound of flour; when milk- warm, mix half a pint 
of good ale yeast, or a pint of thie mixture, which 
you should always reserve to keep a supply. When 
nearly cold, bottle and cork it well, and keep it for 
use in a cool place ; if too warm it would be apt to 
fly ; you will judge of this by the season of the 
year; obsa-ve to fill the botdes only two thirds 

fBll. 

When used, put of it into the flour you intend for 
bread, in the proportion of a pint to twenty-four 
pounds, with water to make it of a proper warmth, 
mix a little of the flour with it in the middle of the 
mug, or kneading vessel ; it must be covered close, 
and set in a tolerable warm place all night. Knead 
it weH in the morning, and let it stand some hours 
longer to rise. It should be eighteen or twenty hours 






BREtVlNCr. 9# 

£rom the first putting together, before your bread '» 
set into the oven. 

1 24. To make Yeast in the Turkish Manner^ 

Take a srmall teacup-full of split or bruised peas^r 
and pour on it a pint of boiling water, and set-it ia 
a vessel all night on the hearth, or any warm place.- 
The next morning the water will have a froth on it, 
and be good yeasf, and will make as much bread as 
(wo quartern loaves. 

135. Easy Method of preserving Yeast* 

Yeast may be preserved for a considerable time,' 
by coating, a board with a whiting-brush, allowing 
the. coat to dry ; then putting on another, which isr 
in like manner to dry ;, and so a third, and any num- 
ber of successive coatines, which, when perfectly 
dry, will keep vigorous for a fong time^ Another' 
method is to whisK the yeast until it becomes thin, 
and then to lay it upon a dry platter or dish, repeat- 
edly, with a soft brush as aDove-mentioned* The 
top is then to be turned downwards to keep out th6 
dust, but not the air which is fo dry it. By this me^ 
thod it may be continued till it be two or three 
inches thick, when it may be preserved in dry titt 
• - canisters for a long time good. When used for bak- 
ing, a piece is to be cut 0% and laid in warm water 
[ to diffuse or dissolve, when it will be fit for use. 

ff 126. To make artijicial Yeast. 

Boil potatoes of the mealy sort till diey are tho- 
roughly soft ; skin and wash them very smooth, and 
put as much hot water as will make the mash of the 
consistency of common beer yeast, and not thicker. 
L Add to every pound of potatoes two ounces of 

I coarse sugar or treacle, and when just warm, stir in 

' it for every pound of potatoes two spoonfuls of 

yeast; keep it warm till it has done fermenting, and 
I in twenty-four hours it may be used. A pound of 

potatoes will make about a quart of yeast, and wbea 



100 BR£Wm0. 

made will keep thj*ee months. Lay your bread eight 
hours before you bake it. 

N« B« Inatead of water and sugar in the above 
receipt, beer has been used, not bitter nor strong, 
in the same proportion, and with equal if not better 
success. 

127. Usefulness of the common Hazel-nut in Brew* 

In countries where yeast is scarce, it is a common 
practice to take the twigs of hazel, and twisting 
them together so as to be full of chinks, to steep 
them in the ale-yeast during its fermentation ; they 
are then hung up to dry, and at the next brewing 
they are put into the wort instead of yeast. In Italy 
the chips are frequently put into turbid wine, for the 
purpose of clearing it, which is effected in twenty- 
four hours. 

128. To extract the Essence of Malt for Brewings 

After brewing, when the grains are done with, 
strew a small quantity of unslacked lime over the 
same, with two or three roots of horse-radish. This 
will draw out all the remaining goodness from the 
malt, and make a less quantity go farther than is 
generally supposed. 

129^. To prevent Beer from growing fiat* 

In a cask, containing eighteen gallons of beer, 
becoming vapid, put a pint of ground malt, Sruspend- 
e^ in a bag, and close the bung perfectly ; the beer 
%vin be improved during the whole time of drawing 
it for use. 

1 30. To recover sour Beer* 

When beer is become sour, add thereto some 
oyster shells, calcined to whiteness, or, in place 
thereof, a little fine chalk or whiting. Any of these 
will correct the acidity, and make it brisk and 
sparkling; but it should not be long kept after 
&uch additions, otherwise it will spoil. 



I 



* 



BUILDINO* 101 

131. To restore pricked or stale Beer. 

To about a quart of* stale beer, put half a tea- 
spoonful of salt of worm >?ood; this will restore the 
beer, and make it sparkle when poured'into a glas/s, 
like bottled porter. . 



CHAPTER VIIL 
BUILDUP. 



13.2* Artificml Stone FJo^rs and Coverings for- 
ftousesyas made in some parts qf Russia. 

Th€f floors and coverings of houses, in some parts 
of South Russia, are made in the following man- 
ner : — Fora floor, let the ground be made even, and 
some stones of any shape be put on, and, with a 
heavy wooden xammer, force or beat the stones in- 
to the ground, continuing to beat the floor till it be- 
come quite even, and incapable of receiving any 
farther r impression* Then run lime, immediately 
after it has been slacked, through a fine sieve, as 
expeditiously as possible, because exposure to the 
atrweakens^ the lime. M^ two parts of coarse 
sand, or washed gravel,;for there-must be no earth 
in it, with one part of Ikae powder, and wet them . 
with bullock's bloody so little moist, however, >as 
merely to •prevent the lime from blowing away in 
powder ;^ in short, the less moisl the better. ^Spread 
it on thefloor, and, without a moment's loss of time, 
let several-men be ready, with large beetles, to beat 
the mixture^ which wrll become m^re and more 
moist by the-excessive beating requisite. Then put 
on it c some of the dry sand and lime mixed, and 
beat Jt till like a stone. If required to be very fine, 
take for the next layer finely sifted lime, with about. 



;.« 



102 BUILDINO. 

a tenth part of rye flour, and a little ox blood ; beat 
It till it becomes a very stiff mortar, and then smooth 
it with a trowel. The next day again smooth it 
with a trowel ; and so continue to do, daily, till it 
be entirely dry. When it is quite dry and hard, rub 
it over with fresh ox blood, taking off all which it 
will not imbibe. No wet will penetrate this compo- 
sition, which, however, after some time, is often 
painted with oil colours. The whole floor appears 
as a single stone, and nothing will affect it. The 
drier it is used, the better, provided that, with much 
beating, it becomes like a very stiff mortar, and evi- 
dently forms a compact body. On flat tops of 
houses, the beetle, or rammers' ends must be smal- 
ler, to prevent the rebounding of the boards and 
timber, which would crack the cement; but, when 
the thickness of a foot is laid on, it will beat more 
firmly- A thin coating of ox blood, flour, and lime, 
being beat in large, strong, wooden troughs, or mor- 
tar, till it can be spread with a trowel, may be used 
without beating it again on the floor or house top ; 
but it must be very stiff, and used most expeditious- 
ly. Even frost will not affect it. With this compo- 
sition, artificial stone may be made, rammed very 
hard into strong wooden frames of the required 
shape ; particularly to turn arches for buildings of 
rammed earth. It is well known that earth which is 
not too argillaceous, with only the moisture it has 
When fresh dug, on being rammed between frames 
of wood, till the rammer will no longer impress it, 
makes eternal walls ; but a mass as hard as stone 
may be made with a little lime added to sand, horse 
dung, and ox blood. The more the lime is beaten, 
the moister it becomes ; and it must contain so 
much moisture as to become, by beating, a solid 
mass, adhering in all its parts, and not remain 
crumbling, that will properly set as mortar. If there 
be too little moisture at first, it will remain a pow- 

4er 3 if there be too much; ii yfiil become a soft 



i 



BUILDIKO* 103 

mortar. Lime is of no use, mixed with clay or ve- 
getable earths ; which, if well beaten, are stronger 
without it. 

133. To cure damp Walts ^ 

Boil two quarts of tar, with two ounces of kitchen- 
grease, for a quarter of aa hour, in an iron pot. 
Add some of this tar to a mixture of slacked lime 
and powdered glass^ which have passed through a 
flour sieve, and been completely dried over the fire 
in an iron pot, in the proportion of two parts of 
lime and one of glass, till the mixture becomes of 
the consistence of thin plaster. The cement must be 
used immediately after being mixed, and therefore 
it is proper not to mix more of it than will coal one 
square foot of wall^ since it quickly becomes toa 
hard for use ; and care must be taken to prevent 
any moisture from mixing with the cement. For a 
wall merely damp, a coating one-eighth of an inch 
thick is sufficient ; but if the wall is wet, there must 
be a second coatc Plaster made of Unte, hair^ and 
plaster of Paris, may afterwards be laid on as a ce* 
ment. The cement above described will unite the 
pai'ts of Portland stone or marble, so as to make 
them as durable as they were prio^ to the &acture« 

134. To increase the Duvahilily of Tiles for cover* 

ing BuuldingSm 

The following eomposition has been found to be 
of extraordinary durability, as a glazing or varnish 
for tiles. No sort of weather, even for a consider- 
able length of time, has had any effect upon. it. It 
prevents that absorption of water, by which com- 
mon tiles are rendered liable to crumble into dust, 
hinders the shivering of tiles, and gives to red 
bricks a soft lustre, by which their appearance is' 
much improved. 

Over a weak fire heat a bottle of linseed oil, with 
an Qttnce of Utharge* and a small portion of mioiusa^ 



104 BUILDING. 

lUI such time as a feather, used in stirring it, shall 
be burnt to the degree of being easily rubbed to 
powder between the fingers. Then take off the var- 
nish^ let it cool, clarify it from any impuritres which 
may have fallen to the botlofla, and. hlEjftt; it again. 
Haiiiigv in the fRean tirae, meltcsd from three to four 
ounces of pitchy mix: this with the warm varnish. 
The specific gravity of the pitch hiaders it from . 
xaingling thoroughly with the varnish, though k even 
remain so long *ipon the fire as Uybe evaporated to 
considerable thickness. It is not till the varnish be 
cooled, nearly to the consistency of cooimoo syrup, 
that this e&ci takes. place in the requisite degree. 
If it be>too thick, let hot varnish be added to bring 
it to the proper consistency ; if it be t^o thin, add 
melted pitch. Next, put in as much brick-dust as the 
mixture can receive,, without bci^ig made too thick 
for convenient use. Thcr finer the brick-diist, and 
the easier it iii to be moved with the point of a pen- 
cil, so much the fitter will it be to fill up the chinks 
aod unevenness of the brick$, and, as it were, to in- 
corporate itself with their substance* Prepare the 
brick-dust in the following manner : — Tal^e a cer- 
tain number of pieces of good brick, beat them inr 
to dust, and sift the dust in a hair &ieve. Then, to « 
improve its fineness, rub it on a stone with water, . 
dry it„attd mix it with the Varnish in the necessary 
proportion. . If the brick-dust be naturally of too < 
dark a colour, a portion ,pf some that Is brightei^may . 
be added, to make the cplowclear. . 

It is to be laid on the tiles in the same oianaep in 
wbicji oil colours in geaeral are put upon the sub- 
$:tances on which ihey are applied. The composi- 
tion must be.bcat^ fi:QQi,tip^ totigfie-when it is. la 
he u^ed. . 



BUlLDlNGf. 105 

%35. Economical Method of employing Tiles far tht 

Roofs of Houses. \ 

A French architect (M. Castala) has invcnteS'a 
new method of employing tiles for the roofs of 
boases, so as to save one half of the quantity usually 
employed for that purpose. The tiles are made of a 
square instead of an oblong form ; and the hook 
that fastens tliem, is at one of the angles, so that, 
when fastened lo the laths, they hang down diago- 
nally^ and every tile is covevec^one fefth part on two 
sides by the superior row. 

136. ToimproTxe Chimney Fire Places^ and increase' 
the Heat^ by a proper Attention to the Setting of 

Stov£s, Grates y <Jrc. 

The best materials for setting stoves or grates,, 
are fire-stone and common bricks and mortar. Both 
materials are fortunately very cheap. When bricks 
are used, they should be covered with- a thin coat- 
ing of plaster^ which, when it is dry, should be white 
washed. The fire-stone should likewise be white 
washed when that is used ; and every part of the 
fire-place,, which is T:vf>t exposed to being soilfcd and 
made black by the smoke, should be kept as white 
and clear as possible. As 2i;Ai7e reflects more heat, 
a^ well as more tight, than any other colour, it ought 
always to be preferred for the inside of a chimney 
fire-place; and blacky whfch reflects neither light 
nor heat, should be most avoided. 

137. To cure Smokey Chimnies* 

Put on the top of the chimney a box, in each of ^ 
whose sides is a door hanging on hinges, and kept 
open, by a thin iron rod running Irom one to the 
other, and fastened by a ring in each end to a staple. 
When there is no wind, these doors are at rest, and 
each forms an angle of 45'degreesr^ which is decreas- 
ed on the windward side in proportion to the force 
df the wind> and increased in the same, ratio on thi^ 



106 BVlLDllU^ 

keward sicfe. If the wind be vet*y strong, the door 
opposed to the wind becomes close, while the oppo- 
site one is opened as wide as it can be. — ^If the 
wind strikes the corner of the box it shuts two 
doors, and opens their opposites. This scheme has 
been tried witJi success in a chimney which always 
filled the room with smofee,^ but which, since adopt- 
ed, has^ never smoked the room at all. The expense 
is triflings and th>e apparatus simple^ 

1-38. A preparation to preserve Wood from catching, 
fire^ and topresenxe it from Decay. 

A member of the Royal Academy at Stockholm, 
says, in the memoirs of that academy, " Having 
been withia these few years to visit the alum mines 
of Loswers, in the province of Galmar, I took no- 
tice of some attempts made to butn the old staves 
of tubs and pails that bad been used £br the alum 
works.^ For this purpose they were thrown into the 
furnace, but those pieces of wood which had been 
penetrated by the alum did not burn, though they 
remained for a long time in the fire, where they on-' 
ly became red ; however, at last they were consum- 
ed by the intenseness of the heat,, but they yielded 

BO flame." 

He concludes, from this experfment, that wood or 
timber, for the purpose of building, may be secured 
against the action of fire, by letting it remain for 
some time in water, wherein vitriol, alum, or any 
other salt has been dissolved, which contains no in- 
flammable partsr 

To this experiment it may be added, that wood, 
which has been impregncited with water, wherei» 
vitriol has been dissolved, is very fit for resisting 
putre&Gtion<, especially if afterwrads it is brushed 
over with tar,, or some kind of paint ; in order to 
this, the wood awst be rubbed with very warm vi*^ 
triol water, and afterwards left to dry, before it is 
painted or tarred. Wood prepared in this maaneE^ 



irriLiH^G« 107 

-will for a long time resist the injuries of the air, and 
te preserved in cellars and other low moist places* 
It is to be observed, that if a dissolution of vitriol is 
poured on such parts of timber where a sort of 
dhampignons are formed by moisture, and rubbed 
off, none will ever grow there again. 

^y boiling, for some hours, the spokes of wheels 
in vitriol water, they are not subject to rottenness 
in the parts where tlrey enter the stocks. After boil* 
ing .them in this manner, they are dried as perfectly 
as possible, and then, in the accustomed way, paint- 
ed with oil colour* 

139. Cheap and extdlent Composition for preserv- 
ing Weather Boarding y Palings and all other 
Works liable to be injured by ihe Weather^ 

Well burnt lime will soon become slacked by ex- 
posure in the open air, or even if confined in a situ- 
ation not remarkably dry, so as to crumble of itself 
into powder. This iscalfed air-slacked lime, in con- 
tradistinction to that which is slacked in the usual 
-way, by being mixed with water. For the purpose 
of making the present composition to preserve all 
^orts of wood- work exposed to the vicissitudes of 
^the weather, take three parts of this air-slacked 
Jime, two of wood ashes, and one of fine sand^ pass 
them through a fine sieve, and add as much linseed 
oil to the composition as will bring it to a proper 
consistence for working' with a painter's brush. As 
.particular care must be taken to mix it perfectly, it 
should be ground on a stone slab with a proper 
muller, in the same manner as painters grind their 
white lead, &c. ; but where these conveniences are 
not at hand, the ingredients may be mixed in a 
large pan, and weH beat up with a wooden spatula. 
Two coats of this composition being necessary, the 
£rst may be rather thin ; but the second should be 
.as thick as it can conveniently be worked. This 
most excellent composition for preserving wood, 



108 ' BuiLDisro, 

vhen exposed to the injuries of the weather, is high** 
ly preferable to the customary method of layiag on 
tar and ochre. 

440, To presDent ike msa^reeahle Smell arising from 

House Drains-* 

As the diffusion of this noxious matter, within our 
^dwellings, tends to produce disease and mortality^ 
it cannot be too generally known that a cheap and 
simple apparatus has been contrived for carrying 
off the waste water, &c« of sinks, and which at the 
same time prevents the possibility of any air ever 
returning back into the house from thence, or from 
any drain which may be connected with it. It is 
known by the name of a stink trap, and is made in 
brick by every bricklayer in London. 

14U Improved Ventilators for Room^ 

Differerft methods are adopted for ventilafting, or 
changing the air of rooms. — Thus, 

Mr. Tidd admitted fresh air into a room by tak- 
ing out the middle upper sash pane of glass, and fix- 
ing in its place a frame box with a round hole in \\s 
middle, about six or seven inches drameter, in which 
hole are fixed, behind each other, a set of sails, of 
very thin, broad copper plates, which spread over 
and cover the circular hole, so as to make the air, 
which enters the room, and turning round these sails, 
to spread round in thin sheets sideway, and so not 
to incommode persons by blowing drredly upon 
them, as it would do if it were not hindered by the 
sails. This well-known contrivance has generally 
been employed in public buildings, but is very dis- 
ligrecable in good rooms ; instead of it, therefore, 
the late Mr. Whitehurst substituted another, which 
was, to open a small square, or rectangular hole, ia 
the party wall of the room, in the upper part, near 
the ceiling, at a corner or part distant from the fire^ 
before it he placed a thin piece of QietaK or paste- 



«V1LD1XG« )09 

« 

beard, &c. atlached to the wall in its lower pftit, 
just before the hole, but declining from it upwards, 
so as to give the air that enters by the hole, a direc- 
tion upwards against the ceiling, along which it 
sweeps, and disperses itself through the room, with- 
out blowing in a current against any person. This 
method is very useful to cure smoky chimnies, by 
thus admitting, conveniently, fresh air. A picture, 
placed before the hole, prevents the sight of it from 
disfiguring the room. 

14 2* To preserve Churches from Dilapidation* 

The earth, next to the walls of a church, lying 
higher ia any part than the floor of it, is not only 
very injurious >t6 the wails, but to the wainscoat 
next to the same on the inside, by causing what is 
absurdly called the dry rot, and, where there is no 
wainscoat, producing a green moss. The water 
from the eaves, where there is no parapet, should 
be carried off by a spout, to extend much farther 
than the length of the wall, to prevent the wind 
from driving the wet against it, Wliere there are 
parapets, it should be brought down close to the 
wall, in leaden pipes, at the foot of which should be 
a stone somewhat hollow, to prevent its penetrating, 
and to throw it off from the wall ; a pipe should be 
also continued from the roof of the steeple to that of 
the church. These matters attended to, will prove 
of great advantage to the sacred fabrics, anci save 
much expense in the repairs. 

1 43. To make Red Coral Branches for embellish^ 
ing Grottos^ and the Method of bidlding a Grotto 
id a very little Expense. 

Dissolve clear rosin in a brass pan ; to one ounce 
thereof add two drachms of the finest vermillion ; 
and when you have stirred them well together, and 
have chose your twigs and branches, peeled and 
dried, take a pencil and paint these twigs all over, 

K 



110 CAA ART BULBS* 

trhilst the eompositioD is warm, and sliape them \u 
imitation of natural coral of black thorn ; when done, 
hold it over a gentle coal fire, turn the branches a- 
bout with your band, and it will make it all over 
{smooth and even, as if polished. In the same man* 
iier you may, with white lead, prepare white ; -and 
twith 4amp biack, black corah 

A beautiful grotto may be built at a very little ex- 
pense with glass cinders, which may easily be had, 
pebbles or pieces of large flint, and embellish it 
with such counterfeit coral, amber, pieces of look- 
ing-glass, oyster, muscle, and snail shells, moss, 
pieces of chalk, ore, &c. The cement to bind them 
together is as follows : take two parts of while ro- 
sin, melt it clear, add to it four parts of bees' wax ; 
when mixed together, add stone flower of the stone 
you design to cement two or three parts, or so much 
as wili giv« the cement tbe colour of the stone ; to 
this add one part of flower of sulphur; first incor- 
porate all together over a gentle fire, and afterwards 
knead it with your hands in warm water, with this 
cement tbe stones, after they are well directed, and 
have been warmed before the fire, in order to re- 
ceive the cement the better. {See ako Chap* L StcU 
S. Farm Buildings.) 



CHAPTER IX. 
CANARY BIRDS. 



144. BreeJ^g and Management of Canary Bird»^ 

Canary birds, that are kept tame, will breed three 
•r four times in the year ; they usually begin in A- 
pril and breed in May and June, though sometime* 
ux July and August* 



CAHTAHY BIBfDS. 1 1 1 

Towards the middle of March, begin to matclr 
Jour birds, putting one cock and one hen in a sraajl 
cage ; and when they have been so long togetlier, 
that they are perfectly reconciled and well pleaded 
with each other, towards the end of March or ;he 
beginning of April, put them into tiie breeding cage 
for that use; let it be full large, so tliat the birds 
may have the naore room to fly and exercise them- 
selves ; let thefe be two boxes in the cage for the 
ben to build in, because she will sometimes hatch a 
second brood before the first are fit to fly, leaving, 
the care of them to the cock to feed and bring them 
op, whilst she J>reeds in the other box ; therefore if 
she has not a spare box to build in she will bo apt 
to make her nest upon the birds, (as it sometimes 
happens) and smother them, or build so near that 
ihey will spoil one another. Whilst your birds arc 
pairing, feed them with soft meat, egg, bread, maw 
seed, and a little scalded rape seed, hardly a third 
part of egg ; this last, and the bread, grated fine, 
and so mix it- together. 

When they have young ones, gFve the satne soft 
victuals fresh every day, and let them have fresh 
greens likewise, such as cabbage-lettuce, now and 
then ; but give them more constantly chick-weed 
with seeds upon it: towards June, shepherd's 
purse ; in July and August, plantain ; and before 
they have young, ones, give them groundsel, with 
seed upon it. 

I would recommend to such persons who breed 
«nly a few birds for their own diversion, to use very 
large cages, it being much the best way; but those 
who intend to breed a number should prepare a 
room for that purpose. 

Let the situation of it be such that the birds may 
enjoy the benefit of the morning sun, which is both 
delightful and nourishing, and let wire, instead of 
glass, be at the windows, that they may have the 
advantage of the air^ which will add to theii? healthy' 



il2 > CANARY BIRDS. 

and make them thrive the better ; keep the floor of 
the room clean, sometimes sifting fine gravel or 
sand^ and often removing the dung and the other 
foul stuff* You must take care to fix nest boxes an4 
back cages in every convenient corner and place in 
the room, at least twice the number that you have 
of birds, that they may have the more variety to 
choose a lodging to their minds, for some love to 
build high, and some very low, some in a light 
plac^, and others will choose a dark place to build 
in. 

There ought to be two windows rn the room, one 
at each end, and several pcrciies, at proper distan- 
ces, for the birds to settle upon as they fly back- 
'wards and forwards. 

You may likewise set a tree in some convenient 
part of the room ; it will divert the birds, and some 
of them will like to build in it. You must observe, 
that their nest is secure from falling through, and if 
in danger, to tie the tree closer, to prevent it, and 
-they will hatch there as well as in any other place. 

Remember not to put tcx) many birds together j 
eight or ten pair are enough for a middling room. 
When your birds are first paired, as directed be* 
fore, turn them into the room, where they will live,, 
as it were, a conjugal life; and notwithstanding 
there are several male and female birds in the smne 
room, one cock and one hen, as they first couple to- 
gether, will keep constant to each other, and both 
concur and assist in sitting and feeding their young, 
for the cock bird takes his turn in building the nest, 
sitting upon the eggs, and feeding the young, as 
well as the hen. 

Of their nesls, and how to order their young* — 
You must furnish the birds with stuff for making 
their nests, such as fine hay, wool, cotton, and hair ; 
let these materials be thoroughly dry ; then mix and 
tie them up together in a net, or some such thing, 
so that the birds may easily pull it out as they want 



■^"T" 



CilTART BiftDS. Hi 

it,^nd let it he hung in a proper place in ib^ toottt 
fof that purpose. 

They build a pretty nest, aboiit which they will 
sometimes be so- industrious, as to begin and finish 
it in one day, though they are generally two 01^ 
three days making their nest : the hen commonly 
lays four or five eggs, and sits fourteen days* 

When the young are hatched, leave them to the 
care of the old ones to nurse and bring up till they 
can fly, and feed themselves. The hen, as I said 
before, by reason of their rankness in being kept 
together^ and provided with all things necessary at 
hand, without any trouble in seeking their food, 
&c. will scinetinies build and hatch again before 
the first can shift for themselves, the care of which 
she transfers to the cock-birdj who will feed and 
narse them himself, supplying the part of both pa- 
rents, while she brings on and attends her new pro- 
geny iJbut it is not so with those birds that live at 
Kirge in.' the fields ; they observe their season tor 
breeding, and after they have hatched, company 
with their brood till their young aregroWn up, and 
able to provide for-themsefves.. 

When' the young canary bii^ds can feed tbem« 
selves^ take them feom the old ones, and cage them | 
if they are flying about the room, to catch them bring 
a spare cage with some soft victuals in it, taking the 
oihei* meat that is in the room a way. and placing the 
cage there in its steady with the cloor open, and a 
string fastened thereto,' then stand at a distance, 
and the old ones will presently for the sake of the 
meatj intice the young ones into the cage 5 then pull 
the string, and shut ill as many as jt.o^ dailj.andl 
cAtch them. 

Lti the^ir meat be the yolK of an egg bard bdited,' 
#ithas much of : the best bfead, and a little stalded' 
rapeseed ; when it is boiled soft, bruise the seed fine, 
fnd put a little maw seed amongst it, and mix it all 
together, and give them a sufficient quantity fresii^ 

K 2L 



114 CATTLS. 

every day ; never let it be stale or sour ; besides 
this, give them a little scalded rapeseed, and a little 
rape and canary by itself. You may keep them to 
this diet till they have done moulting, and afterwards 
feed them as you do the old ones, unless at ^ny time 
ihey are sick, then continue it^ 



CHAPTER X. 
CATTLE. 



SECT. I.-FOOD FOR CATTLE IN GENERAt. 

145. Tht Everlasting Pea^ a , valuable Crop for 

Cattle* 

The everlasting pea^ commonly grown in gardens, 
would make an advantageous crop, especially in 
stony land, when the ground is broken up. When 
once sown, it will bear a crop for many years, with^ 
out any annual trouble, except scattering somema-* 
nure, and getting in the crbp% It should be cut for 
green food* 

Dr. Anderson says, that the pods strained or 
Isruised would yield a great supply of f6od for 
cattle. 

1 46. Scotch JKx/e, excelkrU Food for Cattle. 

Scotch kale planted out in June, in good land^ 
will grow very large before winter^ and would give 
an abundant supply for cattle, where no other juicy 
food is to be had. As it grows upwards, it may be 
planted close, and a vast deal will stand^ upon an 
■■' acre* 



4 . 



OATTUS.. lli 

147» T%e Virtues of Buy TUfhr Cdiilt. 

When there is a scarcity of bay, the following 
experiment will be found a valuably succedaneunv 
to the cattle^ and a great saving to the £u»ier« 

Boil aboiU a. handful of hajr in three gallons of 
water ^ndso iaproportion fip^ any greater or small- 
er quantity,) or if the water is poured boiling hot 
on the hay it will answer nearly as well. Give it 
to the cattle and horses ta drink when cold ; or i£ 
the catde or horses are any way ill,, and under cov- 
er, give' it them bipod watmv 
. Tnia drink, is so extremely nutritive that it nour- 
ishes the cattle astonishingly, it replenishes the ud-> 
derof the cows with a prodigious quantity of milk^ 
makes the horses stale pleatmiUy^ and keeps them 
healthy and strong ;-. and by this method one truss, 
or hundred of hay will go as far as eight or ten other-, 
wise would do* The catde and horses will not 
seem to like it at first, but if they are kept till theyt 
are very thirsty they will drink freely of it ever af- 
terwards.. 

Farmers,, and others, in Sweden, and other cold* 
countries^ who have cattle and horses, when they 
are in want of fodder^, constantly pursue this meth- 
od, and find the good efiects of it ; and there is no 
doubt but this method: would have the same good ef- 
fect on sheep in severe weather, when the sheep^ 
are housed, or the land covered with snow, espe--, 
cially if they were given a small quantity of salt, (a 
practice used in Spain to make the wool fine and 
soft,) to strengthen the sheep, and prevent the rot, 
for the stronger the sheep are the greater quantity 
of wool they will produce, and whicn will be much, 
finer and softer than when the sheep are lean and 
weak. 

The hay, after being used as before-mentioned, 
and dried, may be used as a litter for horses or cat-^ 
Ue y ii makes very good manure, and sayes straw,, 



116 eATTtfi. 

which will he a considerable adirafitage, especially^ 
when there is a scarcity of that article. 

N. B. By a handful of hay, is meant as much as 
a person can grasp in his hand from a parcel of 
loose hay.. And it is presumed and wished,, as the 
above method is so easy' and safe, that no person,, 
who has cattle, cows, horses^, or sheep, will neglecf 
to try it. 

This method was followed* with a cow, which 
was kept in a large city, for the sake of the children,, 
where no gpeen food could easily be got in winter,, 
except the refuse of the vegetables used in the fami- 
ly. Boiling water was poured into a tub half filled 
with hay, and the tub was covered till cold.. Bur 
tlie cow eat the hay as well as the tea, seemed to be 
fond of both, and it was thought the milk was more 
plentiful.. It was, in fact, a succedaneum for green, 
food. 

t48. Ji^profituhh Way of fattening Pigs. 

Put four pigs in a sty, for they feed best in com- 
pany, but if there are too many they are apt t6 quar- 
rel ; f(^ed, them moderately the first week, and thrice 
during the second week mix with their barley meal- 
as much antimony as will lie on a shilling ; and the^ 
Vhird week twice give them the same quantity. I 
need scarcely observe it is in powder. 

This ptirifies the blood, gives them an appetite^., 
and makes them, thrive apace.. 



«EGT. II.— BEST METHODS OF FEEDING; 
AND MANAGING COWS. 

149. On the great Increase cf Milk from feeding* 
Milch Gdms with Sainfoin* 

The quantity of milk produced by cows fed by 
attftfomis nearly doable to that of any odier food. 



t % 



The milfe is also much richer, and will yield a lar*^ 
ger quantity of cream- The butter will also be bet- 
ter coloured and flavoured than any other. 

150. Parsnips groductive of Milk in Cotos.- 

Parsnips cause cows to produce abundance of 
milk, and they eat thcnfi as free as they do oil-cake* 
Land, IL an acre in Guernsey, is sown with pars- 
nips to feed cattle, and the milk is like cream. — 
Sheep, when lambing, fed with them^ produce 
much milk.- They are improper foed for horses^ 
subjecting them to blindness. 

151. Most proper Food for Milch Cozos^ 

Milch cows are infinitely more profitable kepi^iA 
the house than out of doors, but they must be train* 
ed to it, otherwise they do not thrive. 

The best food for them are clover, lucerne, pota- 
toes, yams, turnips, carrots, cabbages, peas, and 
beans^' 

Such cows as those in the neighbourhood of Lon^* 
d6n, kept in the house^ and properly fed; ought to- 
yield nine gallons per day, for the iurst four months 
after calving. 

152*. Additional Quantity of Milk to be gained by 
keeping Milch Cows in the House^ 

Ih the management of cows a warm stable is 
highly necessary ; and currying them like horses, 
not only affords them pleasure but- makes them 
give their milk more freely. They ought always 
to be kept clean, laid dry, and have plenty of good 
sweet water to drink. Cows treated in this mannei: 
have given two gallons of milk at a time, when with^ 
in ten days of calving. 

153. To prevent Gows from contracting bad Habits 

while Milking. 

Cows should always' be treated with great gentle- 
ness, and soothed by mild usage, especially when 



118 HANAGEJTENT OP CALVE^v 

young and ticklish^ or when the paps are tender, fo 
which case the udder ought to be fomented with 
warm water, before milking, and touched with the 
greatest gentleness, otherwise the cow will be m 
danger of contracting bad habits, becoming stub- 
born and unrdy, and retaining her milk ever after. 
A cow never lets down her milk pleasantly to the 
person she dreads or dislikes* The udder and 
paps should always be washed with clean water be- 
fore milkiiig ; but care should be taken that none of 
that water be admitted into the milking pail. 



SECT. IIL— MANAGEMENT OF CALVES. 

1 54. Successful Experiment of rearing Calves with* 
out Milk, From Transactions of the Bath So^ 
ciety, voL 5. 

Sir, Tytherton, Dec* 3, 1789. 

The^ following is as near a calculation of the 
expenses of rearing my calves without milk, as T 
can at present assert. In the year 1787, I weaned 
seventeen calves ; in 1788, twenty-three ; and in 
1789, fifteen. 1 bought, in 1787, three sacks of 
linseed ; I put one quart of the seed to six quarts 
of water, which, by boiJing ten minutes, became a 
good jelly ; this jelly is mixed with a small quantity 
©f the tea of the best hay, steeped in boiling water* 

Having my calves to drop at diiFerent times, I 
did not make an exact calculation of the expense of 
this hay tea, but out of my three sacks of seed 1 had 
better than two bushels left at last. I gave themr 
the jelty and hay tea three times a day ; to the boy, 
who looked after them, 6'J. per day i the price of 
the linseed was 4s. Grf^ per bushel : the whole three 
years' seed 2/. 5s. 

My calves a-re kept in a g^ood growing state, and^ 
are much better at this time than my netgbboura. 



^tBat are reared by milk : thejr do not fall off so mack 
when they come to grass. 

I am, Sic. Thomas Crook. 

155. To make Hay Tea for Calves. 

Take about one pound of red clover hay, well 
got in, and six quarts of clear spring water ; boil- 
•tbem together till the water is reduced to four quarts i 
then take out the hay, and mix a pound of barley, 
oat, or bean meal, amongst a little water ; put it into 
the pot or cauldron, while it is boiling, and keep it 
constantly stirring until it is thickened. Let it 
•cool, then give it to the calf, adding as much whey 
as will make a sufficient meal. - This is a cheap 
-way of rearing calves, and the valuable article of 
milk may be saved for other purposes. 

156. Excellent Method of rearing Cahes, and of 
preserving ike Cream, and a great Pari of the 
Milk 'during that Time. 

Put some water on the fire, nearly the quantity 
that the calf can drink. When it boils, throw into 
it one or two handfuls of oatmeal, and suffer the 
whole to boil for a minute. Then leave it to cool 
until new milk warm. Then mix with it one or two 
quarts of milk, that has stood twelve hours, and has 
been skimmed ; stir the whole, and give it the calf 
to drink. At first it is necessary to make the calf 
drink by presenting the fingers to it, but it soon 
learns to do without this help, and will grow incom- 
parably faster than by the old method. This new 
method is not only a theoretical truth, but its suc- 
cess is con&rmed by experience. 

The economical advantages resulting from it ar6 
as follows : According to the old method, a calf in- 
tended for slaughter is made to suck for three weeks, 
and those intended for agriculture from six to eight 
weeks. Supposing the cow gives only a moderate 
c|aantity of milk, the value of it will amount, in 
Aree weeks, to nearly the value of the calf. If, oa 



129 MdltSES. 

the contrary, we rear a calf according to this metl> 
od, we consume during the three weeks only three 
quarts of oatmeal, at most, and the skimmed milk. 
Calves that have been brought up by this method 
have been always healthy and strong, and not sub- 
ject to disease. They are not suffered to suck at 
all, but to have the pure milk of the mother to drink 
for the first four days, because it has been observ- 
ed, that the separation, after four days, is more 
painful to the nmther than when 4he calf is taken 
jrom her soon after its birth. 

157. To prevent Sickness in Calves uboiU Michael- 
mas. 

Take newly-churned fresh butter, without salt, 
and form of it a cup the size of a hen's eg^ 5 into 
ttiiscup put three or four cloves of garlic bruised, 
and fill it up with tar; do so for each calf: putthis 
cup, &c. down each calf's throat : immediately af- 
terwards put into the calPs nostrils haif a table 
spoonfulof spirit of turpentine ; then tar the calPs 
snout well, and keep them within doors for an hour* 
The calves ought to be housed the night before this 
medicine is givea. 



SECT. 1V.-^H0RSES. 

158. Utility qf Carrots as Food for Horses and other 

stall Beastsm 

Carrots are excellent food for horses, either giv- 
en alone, or artong with hay^ likewise for fattening 
stall beasts. They make them eat straw, and very 
indifferent hay, greedily. If the same be given to 
cows, the milk will have a much less offensive taste 
and smell than when they are fed on turnips. 

Remark. — It must be noted, however, that car- 
rots, though a very excellent, are a very expensive 



I»" T ■ 



food. They would not enable a farmer to pay his 
rent. 

159. Benefit of Furze or Gorse as a Winter Food for 

Horses. 

'Having a horse which had been overworked to 
the appearance of a surfeit, 1 treated him in the 
usual manner for that disorder ; and knowing how 
necessary it would be to his speedy recovery to 
give him green food after his physic, it occurred to 
me that furze might answer the purpose immediate- 
ly, as there could be none of the common herbage 
procured before the end of April at soonest. 1 thei-e- 
fore had a quantity of the tops, and the tendercst' 
parts of that plant, cut daily to preserve it, fresh, 
which I hashed upon a block, with a very Jong and 
heavy chopping knife, as smaJi as possible, and then 
beat it again over the same block with a carpenter's 
mallet, (which blunted in a great measure the 3harp 
prickles),' and gave half a peck a day of it to the 
bc»*8e, (in the stable), which eat it qiost greedily, 
and received sq much benefit from it that he is to- 
tally recovered, and carries a very iine coat. 

The stfcccss of this experiment led me to consi- 
der the great utility this plant may be of to poor 
people who live in the neighbourhood of large com- 
mons overgrown with it, as food for cows in winter, 
when fodder is dear ; and, in reality, none so proper 
for milch cattle as this green food, which -mus^ na- 
turally increase the milk, and from the fragrant 
smell it sends forth while cutting, it may reasonably 
be -conjectured it will give no ill taste to it, asniany 
vegetables do. 

Remark. — In any situation, however, wliere furze 
could be extensively used as a food for cattle, chop- 
ping and beating would be found to be too expen- 
sive a process, though it has often been tried on a 
small scale, and the food is known to be excellent. 
IE very leaf of the common furze of this country is 



I 



) 



122 DISEASES OF CATTLE AND SHEEP. 

pointed by a prickle; and the only cheap way of 
making the plant useful, is to bruise it to a pulp, 
between rollers in a mill. Such rollers, added to a 
thrashing machine, might, ui 6pme situations, be ve- 
ry uscfuH 



•^••m^H^m^i^^ 



SECT, v.— SHEEP. 

160. To mark Sheep without Injury to the Wool. 

To thirty spoonfuls of linseed oil add two ounces 
of litharge, and one ounce of lamp black ; unite them 
together by boiling, and mark the sheep therewith. 

161. To improve the Wool of Sheep iy Smearing. 

Immediately after the sheep are shorn, soak the 
roots of the wool that remain all over with oil or 
butter and brimstone, and three or four days after- 
wards wash them ^ith salt and water ; the wool of 
next season will not only be much finer, but the 

3uantity will be in greater abundance. It may be 
epended upon, that the sheep will not be troubled 
with the scab or vermin that year. Salt water is a 
safe and effectual remedy against maggots. 



JSECT. VI DISEASES OF CATTLE AND 

SHEEP. 

162. To preserve Cattle from Disease in the Winter* 

When cattle are kept out in the winter, it is re^ 
commended as an useful practice to rub some tar at 
the root of the horn, which prevents the wet from 
getting between the root and the skin, and, it is said, 
contributes to preserve the health of the animal, and 
ip keep it from various diseases to which it may 
otherwise be liable. 






1$ISEASES or CATTLfi AND SHEEP. 1?3 

i'63. Eas^ Method of fr eventing the Rot in Sheep. 

It is a custom with the farmers, in some districts, 
to pasture their sheep on ground abounding with 
Broom for several dtiys, when tlie broom is in blos- 
som. " This," says Sir John Sinclair, on the autho- 
rity of an intelligent correspondent, " will prevent 
the sheep so pastured from being infected with tkb 
i^t for that season."" 

1 64. Parsley recommended to Farmers to he soxtn 
with Rape-Seed^ as a preservative against the Rcsp 
in Sheep, 

A correspondent of the Chester Chronicle re- 
commends to all farmers, who sow rape-seed, to 
sow with it a small portion of parsley at the same 
time ; this he pronounces an infallible preservative 
against the malady well known by the name of 
resp^ in slieep; he also advises to sow parsley on 
^rnip land at the time of hoclng^ turnips. The 
above correspondent asserts, that he has pursued 
this plan upwards of 25 years, and during that time 
he has never lost one sheep, either in rape or turn- 
ip land. 

Remark, — In some counties, parsley k sown with 
clover, on the supposition that it prevents cattle 
from being bursten,or ht>ven. 

165. Cure of t'lie Rot in Sheep, 

Take a quantity of rue leaves, bruise them well, 
express the juice, and add an equal weight of salt; 
when any of the sheep are in great danger of being 
rotten, give them a table-spoonful of this once a 
week ; and if they are not so bad, once in ten or 
twelve days. This will be found an excellent pre- 
.^ervative, and, in fact, should always be given to 
sheep newly brought-in, as it may preserve them in 
health, and can clo them no harm,. let theni beevw* 
so well. 



124 CEMENTS. 

CHAPTER Xr. 
CEMEXTS. 



1G6, Mmirabie Cement^ or Mortar^ as made on the 

Cotswold Hills, 

On the Cotswold Hills, in Glocestcrshire, where 
lime is dear, and sand not to be had, an excellent 
mortar is prepared at a moderate price. Inventioa 
is seldom more successful, than when it is prompted 
by necessity. The scrapings of the public roads 
over these hills, being levigated limestone more or 
less impregnated with the dung and urine of the ani- 
mals travelling on them, are found to- be a most ad- 
mirable basis for cement. The scrapings alone arc 
frequently used for ordinary walls ; and the general 
proportion, for even the best buildings, is not more 
than one part lime to three of scrapfbgs* This mor- 
lar, of less than ten years standing, has been ob- 
served to possess a stone-like tenacity, much firmer 
than the common stone of the country ; and, conse- 
quently, much harder than the stones from which 
cither the basis or the lime was made. The method 
of preparing this cement is simply by collecting 
the road scrapings, slacking the lime, and mixing 
them very thoroughly together ; carefully picking 
out, as the mass is worked over, the stones or other 
foulnesses which may have been collected. For 
stone work, this is quite sufficient; for brick work^ 
it might be necessary to pass the materials through 
a screen or sieve, previously to their being united, 
and maje up into mortar. Similar scrapings may bo 
collected, wherever limestone is used as a material in 
making or repairing roads; this admirable mortar 
can, therefore, readily be prepared, in all such, 
placcsywith very little trouble or expense. 



^ ▼ 



CSMENTS* ]3d 

1 67. Unful Proper iy of c&mmon Glut. 

Common glue, dissolved with linseed oil, will re- 
sist the weather. The glue should be melted with a^ 
very little water^ before the oil is added* 

168.. To make Size from Potatoes. 

One of the beneficial uses of potatoes, not per* 
haps generally known, is, that the starch of themi 
quite iresh, and washed only once, may be employ- 
ed to make size, which, mixed with chalk, and di- 
luted in a Iittl6 water, forms a very beautiful and 
good white for ceilings. This size has no smell, 
while animal size, which putrifies so readily, al- 
ways exhales a very disagreeable odour. That of 
potatoes, as it is very little subject to putrefaction, 
appears, from experience, to be more durable in 
tenacity and' whiteness; and, for white- washing, 
should be preferred to animal size, the decomposi- 
tion of which is always accompanied with i|nhealth]^ 

•xhaIatiofl6». 

• » 

169. T6 make PdtenJ Paste, 

Boila quantity of mealy potatoes, and ma^h.them 
without peeling; then take as many, and one third 
more, of raw potatoes, and obtain the starch or flow- 
er from them, by grating them into a vessel of \<^a-' 
tcr, and reserving only the finer particles. The 
nasbed potatoes are to be diluted, beat up, and pas- 
sed through a sieve. They are then to be put into ■ 
a boUerj and when r^arly boiling, the starch pro- 
dueled from the grated potatoes is to be added, and> 
the whole boiled together about twenty minutes, . 
during which time it must be k^t carefully stirred : 
ik is then good paste, and is to be put into a wide 
vessel to cotol. . 

170. A most excellent Glue* 

r 

Beat an ounce of isinglass to shreds ; dissolve it 
gradually in a pint of brandy, by means of gentle 

l21 



126 CEMEIfTd. 

beat, and then strain the solution through a piece of 
fine muslin. The glue thus obtained should be kept 
in glass closely slopped. Wh«n required fc^ use, it 
should be dissolved with moderate heat, when it 
will appear thin^ transparent,, and almost limpid. 
When appKed in the manner of common glue, its ef- 
fect is so powerful as to join together the parts of 
wood stronger than the wood itseff is united. This 
glue dries into a very strong, tough, and transpa- 
rent substance, not easily damaged by any ihinj^ 
but aaueous moisture, which renders it unfit forany 
vse waere it would be much exposed to wet or damp 
air. 

171. Parchment Glue* 

Tak^ one pound of parchment, and boil it in sfx , 
quarts of watery till the quantity be reduced to one^ 
tt^en strain oi^ the dregs, and boil it again, till it be 
oi the copsi^jtence of glue 

The same may be done with glovers? cuttings of 
leather, which ftiake a colourless glue,^if not burnt 
in the evaporaiion of the water. 

172. To nmke Lip GJue^ for joining Fc^ev, Silk^ 

or thin Lfuther, <Jrc.. 

Take of isinglass and parchment glues, of each 
one oxince ;. sugarcandy and gum-tragacanlh,. each 
two dt-acbms ; add to them an ounce of water, and 
boil the whole together tiU the mixttire^ when cold,. 
is of the consistence of glue i then form the same in- 
to* small rolls> or any other figure that may be most 
convenient^ and it will be fit for use. 

This glue may be wet with the tongue, and rub- 
bed on the edges of the paper, silk, or leather, that 
are to be joined ; and on being laid together, and 
. sojBSeTred to dry, they will be united as firmly as any 
otter p^rt of the substance. 



173. Preforaiibn of common Cimini for joining' 
jJkAmdtri Marhky Forphynf^ or other Stones*. 

Y Take of bees^-wax two potmtk, and of rosin one 
"^^ poundj melt tfaem, andr add one pound' and a half of/ 
ihe same kttid of matter, powdered, as tbe body io< 
be cemented is composed of, strewing it: into the 
melted mixture, and stirring, them well together, and 
afterwards kneading tbe mas« in water, that the 
powder may he thoroughly incorporated with wai; 
and rosiiu The pi!oporjtion. of the powdered matter 
may be varied;, wiiere required^, in order to bring, 
the cement nearer U> the colour of the body on^ 
which.it is emtplbyed;. 

This cement nuist be heated when applied ; as 
must also the parts of the subject to be cemented^ 
together-, and care must be taken, likewise^, that* 
tliey be thoroughly dty*, 
' When this composition is properly mapae^} it 
fbrm$an exiremel^ strong. cement, whidb wilTeveik 
suspend a projectmg body of Gontid4rrabfe weighty, 
after it is thoroughly dry and set, and- is therefore of > 
great use to all carvers in stone, or others who may 
have occasion to join^ together, the parts of bodies o£, 
this nature.. 

Melted sulphur, applied to fragments of stones 
previously heated (by placing them before a fire)to- 
at least the melting point of sulphur, and then join- 
ed with the sulphur between, iBakes- a pretty firm^i 
and durable joining.. 

Chips out'ofcorners,.aad similar little difeficiences-. 
in the stone,. may also be filled up, with melted suK 
phur, in which some of the powder of the stone has 
been mixed L but the stoae should be previouslj^ 
heated. 

174. Strong Cement. 

To prevent the escape of the vapours of water;?, 
spirit, and liquors not corrosive, th'e simple applica* 
tion of slips of moistened bladder will answer very 



128 CBMENTS. 

well for glass, and paper with good paste for metaU 
Bladder, to be very aobesive, should be soaked some 
time in water moderately warm, till it feels clammy, 
it then sticks very well ; if smeared with white of 
eggs instead of water.) it adheres still closer*. 

175.. FireLat^.. 

For a fire fiite, take porcelain cfby from Corn- 
wall, (not pipe* clay) let it be pounded small, and 
mixed up to the consistence of thick paint, with a 
solution of two ounces of borax in, a pint of hot wa- 
ter. For want of this peculiar kind of clay, slacked 
quicklime mixed' up in the same manner may be 
used. This majf be kept ready mixed in a covered! 
vessel.. 

176. ColdLiUe. 

Take equal parts, by measure, of the above clay 
and wheat flour ; mix them to a proper consistence 
with cold water. This is more tenacious than the 
fire lutCj but does not keep so welL. 

177; Another • 

A very excellent lute for many purposes may be 
made by beating up an eggj both the white and the^ 
yolk, with half its weight of qiiicklime in powder*. 
This lute is to be put upon a piece of linen, and ap- 
plied as usual*. It dries slowly, but becomes very, 
compact^ and acquires great. hardness*. 

178. Cfimm$. for Iron fJues^ . 

Common salt and sifted wood-ashes, equalparts^. 
made into a paste with water, make a good cement, 
for iron flues,. &c*, better than most other composl-' 
tJons, and may be applied when the flue is hot or^ 
cold. Iron-fllings and vinegar will- do as well, or 
rather iron-filings moistened with diluted muriatic 
^id. These are commonly used for fiiy^ag up the. 
spaces b^tieeea cyliad(e]K».« 



I « » - 



CEMEXTS. 129 

t79« Biood Cement for- repairing Copper Bmlcrsy 

This cement is often used by coppersmiths, to 
lay pver the rivets and edges- of the sheets of cop- 
per in large boilers, to serve as an additional secu- 
rity to the joinings, and to secure cocks, &c. from 
I Teaking; it is made by mixing pounded quicklime 

with ox's blood. It must be applied fresh made, as 
it soon get^ so hard as to be unfit for use. 

If the properties of this cement were d^ily inves- 
tigated, it would be found useful for many purposes 
to which it has never yet been applied. It is ex- 
tremely cheap, and very durable. 

180. To restore Cast Iron Furng^ces^ and Soap Pans, 
thai throitgh Accident or Mismanagpnent may bt 
cracked. 

Take a small clod of fine new lime, slacked, and 
finely sifted, mix it up with white of eggs, well 
beaten, till it is of the consistence of pap or soft mor- 
tar, then add to it some iron file dust, and with this 
composition fill up the inside of the crack, (which 
wiU be sufficient) raising a little seam or bead 
upon it, and it will soon become hard and fit for 
use. 

This experiment completely cured a gentleman's 
furnace which had a crack fourteen inches lo4)g, and 
he has boiled in it three or four days every week 
since, without the least inconvenience or prospect 
of its being agaiadisunited. 

!" 131. ComposUion for a Cement to resist the Action 

of Fire and Water* 

Take half a pint of milk, and mix with it an equal 
quantity of vinegar, so as to coagulate the milk.. 
Separate the curds from the whey, and mix the lat- 
ter with the whites of four or five eggs, after beat- 
\ ing them well up. The mixture of these two sub- 

\ atances being complete, add sifted quick-lime,, and 



130 eEME:NTs^ 

make the \vIiok into a thick paste of the cc^nsisten^ 
cy of putty. If this mastic is carefully applied to 
broken bodies, or to fissures of any kind, and dried 
properly,, it resists water and fire. 

182. A Cement to resist Moisture, 

May be formed by melting by heat, without wa- 
ter, common glue, with half its weight of roain^ te 
which, must- be added; some r^d ochre, to give it 
body ; it is particularly useful for cementing, hones 
to their frames. ■ 

r83. To make Japanese Cement, or Rice Glue, 

/ This elegant cement is made by mixing rice flour 
intimately with coM water, and then gently boil- 
ing it. Tt is beautifully white, and dries almost 
transparent. Papers pasted together By means of 
this cement will sooner separate in their own sub- 
stance than at *e joining, which niakes it extreme- 
ly useful in the preparation of curfoas paper arti- 
cles, as tea-trays, ladies'^ dressing-boxes, and other 
articles which require layers of paper to be ce- 
mented together. It is, in every respect, prefera- 
ble to common paste made with wheat flour, for al- 
most every purpose to which that article is usually 
applied. It answers wel^ in particular, for pastr 
ing into books the copies of writings taken oflf by co- 
pying-machines on unsized silver paper. 

With this composition, made with a comparative- 
ly small quantity of water, that it may have the con- 
jiistence similar to plastic clay, models, busts, sta* 
tues, basso-relievos, and the like, may be formed. 
When dj;y., the articles made of it are susceptible of 
a high polish ; they are also very durable. 

The Japanese make quadrille fish of this sub- 
stance, which so nearly resembles those made (rf 
mother of pearl, that the officers of our East Indian 
men ar^ often imposed upon. 



CEHEKTS« 131 

1 &4. Turkey Cement for joining Metals^ Glass j <Jt« 

The jewellers in Turkey, who are mostly Arme- 
nians, have a curious method of ornamenting watch 
cases, and similar things, with diamonds and other 
stones, by simply glueing them on. The stone is set 
♦in silver or gold, and the lower part of the metal 
made flat, or to correspond with the part to which it 
is to be fixed: it is then warmed gently, and the 
glue applied, which is so very strong that the parts 
never separate. This glue which may be applied te 
many purposes, as it will strongly join bits of glass 
or polished steel, is thus made : 

Dissolve fire or six bits of mastic, as large as 
peas, in as much spirits of wine as will suffice to 
render it liquid ; in another vessel dissolve as much 
isinglass (which has been previously soaked in wa- 
ter till it is swollen and soil) in French brandy or in 
ram, as will make two ounces, by measure, of strong 
glue, and add two' small bits of gum-galbanum, or 
ammoniacum, which must be rubbed or ground till 
they are dissolved ; then mix the whole with a suf- 
ficient heat. Keep it in a phial, stopped ; and when 
it is used set it in hot water. 

185. ^n excellent Cement for broken China 

May be made from a mixture of equal parts of 
glue, white of egg, and white lead. 

186. Cement to mend broken China or Glass • 

Garlic stampt in a stone mortar ; the juice where- 
of, when applied to the pieces to be joined together, 
is the finest and strongest cement for that purpose, 
and will leave little or no mark if done with care. 

187. To prepare a Cemeni for joining broken Glass^ 

China, Earthenware, t^c. 

Take two ounces of good glue, and steep it for a 
aight in distilled vinegar ; boil them together the 
next day ; and having beaten a clove of garlicj with 



133 CE«E«TS, 

balf an ounce of ox-gall, into a soft pulp, Strain the 
juice through a linen cloth, using pressure, and add 
the same to the glue and the vinegar. Then take 
guna sandarach powdered, and turpentine, of each 
one drachm, and of sarcocol and mastic powdered, 
each half a drachm, and put them into a bottle with 
an ounce of highly rectified spirits of wine. Stop the 
bottle, and let the mixture stand for three hours in 
a gentle heat, frequendy shaking it* Mix this tinc- 
ture also with the glue while hot, and stir them well 
together with a stick or tobacco pipe, till part of 
the moisture be evaporated ; then take the com po- 
sition from the fire, and it will be fit for use. "Wheii 
this cement is to be applied, it must be dipt in vine-, 
gar, and then melted in a proper vessel, with a gen- 
tle heat; and if stones are to be cemented it is pro- 
per to mix with it a little powdered tripoli or chalk; 
or if glass is to be conjoined, powdered glass should ^ 
be substituted. 

For the uniting the parts of broken china, or earth- 
enware vessels, as also glass, where the rendering 
the joint visible is not of. consequence, the following 
composition, which is much more easily prepared, 
may be substituted for the foregoing. 

Take an ounce of Suffolk cheese, or any other 
kind devoid of fat, grate it as small as possible, and 
put it, with an equal weight of quicklime, into three 
ounces of skimmed milk; mix them thoroughly to- 
get|^er,and use the composition immediately. 

Where the broken vessels are for service oaly, 
and the appearance is not to be regarded, the joints 
may be made equally strong with any other part of 
the glass, by .putting a slip of thin paper, or linen, 
smeared with this cement, over them, after they are 
well joined together by it. This method will make 
a great saving in the case of glasses employed for 
chemical, or other similar operations. 

A cement of the same nature may be made by* 
tempering quicklime with the curd of milk, till it be 






of a due Cdnsistence for use. The curd, in this case, 

should be as free as possible from the cream or oil 
of the milk. Oa this accoHRt it should be made of 
milk from which the cream has been well skimmed 
off, or the kind of curd commonly sold in the mark- 
'ets, made of whey, and the milk from which butter 
)ias been extracted, commonly called butter-milk. 
This cement should be used in the same manner as 
the preceding, and they may be applied to stoaes, 
marble, '&c. with equal advantage as the compound 
one above given, and is much more easy and cheap- 
ly prepared. 

Di-ying oil, with white lead, is also frequently 
used for cementing china and earthenware; but 
where it is not necessary the vessels should endure 
keat or moisture, isinglass glue, with a little tripoli 
or chalk is better. 

1 88. To stop Cracks in Glass Vessels. 

The cracks of glass vessels may be mended, by 
daubing them with a suitable piece of linen over 
with white of egg, strewing both over with finely 
powdered quicklime, and instantly applying the 
linen closely and evenly. 

J 89. Cement for preserving Wood and Bricks 

This composition is formed of the following ma* 
terials, viz. mineral or coal tar, pulverized coal, 
(charcoal is esteemed the best) and fine well-slack- 
ed lime ; the coal and lime to be well mixed toge- 
ther, proportioned at about four-fifths coal and one- 
£flh lime : the tar to be heated, and while hot thick- 
ened with the mixture of coal and lime, until it be- 
comes so hard that it may be easily spread upon the 
surface of a board, and not run when hot. Turpen- 
tine or pitch will answer nearly as well as tar, and 
plaster of Paris will answer instead of lime ; to be 
used in the same munaer, and in about the same pro- 



134 VhOTVLS^. 

fjorlions. The cement must be applied warm, and is 
found to be used easiest with a^tpowel, 

1 90. Cement for Wood or Paper. 

Dissolve some isinglass in a small quantity of gin 
or proof spirit, by a very^entleheat^; and preserve 
it in a bottle for use. 

191. Anotlier. 

Dissolve, isinglass two parts, and gum arabic in 
like manner with the preceding, and keep it in a 
S)ottle for use. 



CHAP. XII. 

CLOTHES. 

{jind see Chap, xxxiii. ^^t$ or Status, infra*) 



192. Receipt for Blacking* 

In three pints of small beer, put two ounces of 
ivory black, and one penny worth of brown sugar^ 
Jls soon asibey boil, put a desert-spoonful of sweet 
oil, and then boil slowly till reduced to a quart. Stir 
it up with a stick every time it is used ; and put it 
on tne shoe with a brush when wanted. 

193. Another. 

Two ounces of ivory black ; one tea*spoonful of 
-Dil of vitriol, one table-spoonful of sweet oil; and 
two ounces of brown su^ar ; roll the same into a 
l>all> and to dissolve it add half a pint of vinegar. 

■ 

194. Another^ 

T«ke ivory black and brown tusarcandyi of each 



CCOTHEa«> io^ 

two ounces ; of sweet oil a table-spoonl'ul 5 add gi'ia*' 
daally thereto a pint of vinegar, cold, and stir the 
whole till gradually incorporated* 

195. •fnoih&n 

To one y)tnt of vinegar add half an ounce 'of vi- 
triolic acid, half ai) ounce of copperas, two ounccs- 
of sugarcandy, and two ouufccs and a half of ivor)f 
black: mix the. wholo well together.^ 

196. • Another^' 

Sweet oil, half an ounce; ivory black and treacle* 
of each half a pound: gum arabic, half an ounces 
vinegar, three pints ; ooil the vinegar, and pour it 
hot on the other ingredients. 

197. Anothe r. 

Three ounces of ivory black, one ounce of sugar- 
candy, one ounce of oil of vitriol, one ounce of- 
^irits of salts, one lemon, one table-spoonful of 
Srweetoil, and one pint of vinegar. — First mix the 
ivory black and sweet oil together, then the lemon 
and 54igarcandy, with a little vinegar to qualify the 
blacking, then add your spiHts of salts and vitriol, 
9nd mix them all well together. 

N* B. — The last ingredients prevent the vitriol' 
amd salts from injuring the leather, and add to the 
lustre of the blacking. 

t^^. Another. 

Ivory black, two ounces ; brown sugar, one ounce 
and a half; sweet oil, half a table-spoonful. Mix 
them well, and then gradually add half a pint of' 
small beer. — Proved. 

199. Another. 

A quarter of a pound of ivory black, a quarter of 
a.,pound of moist sugar, a table-spoonful of flour, a 
piece of tallow .about the size of a wSilnot, anda 



X3S CLOTHES. 

small piece of gum arabic. — Make a paste of Ae 
ilouV, and while hot put in the tallow, tben the su- 
gar, and afterwards mix the whole well together tii 
a quart of water, and you will have a beautiful shin-- 
ing blacking. 

^00. V Blacking Balls for Shoes* 

Mutton suet, four ounces, bees'-wax, oae o«nce^ 
sugarcandy and gum-arabic, one drachm each, irv 
iine powder; melt these well together over a gentle 
fire, and add thereto about a spoonful, of turpentine^ 
and ivory and lamp black, sufficient to give it a good 
black; while, hot enougli to run, yo^ may make it 
into a ball, by pouring the liquor into a tin mould ; 
or let it stand till al/npst cold, you may mould it in 
what form you please by the hand. 

201. .f celebrated Blacking Cake for Boots an^ 

Shoes. 

Take one part of gum tragacanth, four parts of 
river wat^r, two parts of neats'-foot or some other 
softening, lubricating oil, two parts of superfine 
ivory black, one part of Prussian blue in fine pow- 
der, or indigo, four parts of brown sugarcandy 5 
boil the mixture; and when the composition is of a 
proper consistence, let it be formed into cakes of 
such a size that each cake may make a pint of V\^ 
quid blacking. 

202i Easy Method of cleaning Boots and Shoes in 
the Winter- time-y so as to prevent soiling the Pcr^ 
son J the Clothes^ or the House. 

When the boots or shoes are covered with dirfe^ 
take them off, and with the back of a case-knife, 
or a piece of wood cut thin at the edges like a sta- 
tioner's paper-knife, scrape the dirt off with the 
same as clean as possible, which will be very easi- 
ly done while the boots and shoes are weU Then, 
with a small piece of wet sponge or fianael, wipe 



CCOTHES*- 137- 

off the remaining dirt which the pressure of the* 
knife cannot effect. Then place thetninadryrooni) 
or at a convenient distance from the fire, for a few 
hours, and they will talj^e the blacking remarkably 
well, and bear as fine a polish as they did before 
welting. If proper attention is paid to this process, 
the fingers will scarcely be soiled, and much trouble 
will be saved by the extra brushing required when- 
the dirt is suffered to dry on. 

203. Genuine Preparation of.lhe Famous- Chemical 

Liquid far Boot Tops, 4^c. 

Many of the liquids, sold under various denomi- 
nations, for the purpose of cleaning and restoring 
the colour of boot tops, &c. are found very imper- 
fectly to answer that purpose, and often to injure the 
leather. The following genuine receipt may be ful-- 
Ijr relied on, for actually producing this desirable- 
effect; as well as for readily taking out grease, ink* 
SROts, and the stains occasioned by the juice of. 
fruit, red port wine, &c. from all leather or parch- 
ment, — Mix in^a vial, one drachm of oxymuriate of 
potash with two ounces of distilled W"*ter; and^. 
when the salt is dissolved, add two ounces of muri- 
atic acid. Then, shaking well together, iti another ' 
phial three ounces of rectified spirk of wine with 
half an ounce of the cssentbl oil of lemon, unite the 
contents of the two phials, and keep the chemical li- 
quid thus prepared chasely corked for- use. This 
chemical liquid should be applied with a clean 
sponge, and dried in amende heat; after which, the 
boot tops may be polished with a proper br^sh„ so 
as to appear like new leather. . 

204. To clean Boot Tops, or any Tdnntd Leather* 

Boil one quart of milk, let it stand till cold ; then 
take QVi% ounce of oil of v-itriol ; one ounce of spirits 
af salts ; shake them well together : and add oaq 

m2; 



f' 



ounce of red Idvcnder. Yon may put Italf a pi»t of 
vinegar, with the white of an egg beat to a froth* 

205. To prevent Shoes from taking in Water. 

One pint of drying oil, *two ounces of yelloir 
wax, two ounces of turpentine, and half an ounce of 
Burgundy pitch, melteu carefully over a slow fire. 
If new boots or shoes are rubbed with this mixture, 
either in the sun-shine or at some distance from the 
fire, with a sponge or soft brushy and the opieratioa 
is repeated as often as they become dry, till the lea- 
ther is. fully saturated, they, will be impervious to 
wet, and will wear much longer,, as well as acquiring: 
a softness and pliability that will prevent the leather 
from ever shrivelling. 

J{ote. — Shoes or boots prepared as above oughl 
not to be worn till perfectly dry and ela&tiq, other* 
wise their durabUity would rather be prevented 
than incireased. 

206'., To prevent Snow Water or Rain from penetrate 
ing the Soles of Shoes or Boots in Winter. 

This sipuple and eflfectual remedy ik nothing moi?e 

* than a littik bees'-wax and mutton suet, warmed in- 

•a pipkin, until in a liquid state ; then rub some of it 

slightly over the edges of the sole where the stitches 

a^e, whichf will repel the wet, and not in the least 

prevent the blacking froi^ having its usual effect., 

207. To restore the lustre of Gold or Silver Lace^ 

when tarnished.. 

* ' 

When gold or silver lace happens to be tarnish- 
ed, the best liquor that can be used for restoring its 
lustre is spirits of wine ; it should be warmed be- 
fore it is applied to the tarnished spot. This appli- 
cation will preserve the colour of the silk or em- 
Ibroidery,. 



1 



CLOTHES. 139 

20d. To elmn Gilt Buckles or Toys. 

Rub a little soap on a soft brush, dip ihc same in 
water, and getHly brush the article you intend clean- 
ing for a minute or two, then wash the same cleafv 
ofi^ wipe it and place it near the fire till it is perfect- 
ly dry, then burn a piece of l»'ead, pound it to a 
fine powder, and brush your articles with it as yoa 
do silver goods with whitening. 

209. A black Varnish for Genthmeri^s old Straw or- 

Chip Hats.. 

i Take best black sealing-wax, half an ounce ;.rec- 

, tiffed spirit of win^, two ounces ; powder the seal- 

i ing-wax, and put it, with the spirit of wine, into a 

four, ounce phial; digest them in a sand heat, or 

w neara fire, till the wax is dissolved ; lay it on warmi 

with a fine soft hair-brush, before a fire, or in the 

sun. It gives a good stiffness to old straw hats, and- 

a beautiful gloss equal to new, and resists wet. If 

the hats are very brown- they may be brushed over 

with writing inlc, and dried before the varnish is-ap- 

piied. Spirit of turpentine may probably^De used in 

the place of the spirit of wine. • 

210. To prevent Gentlemen^ s Hals from being spotted^ 

after a Shower of Rain. 

If your hat is wet from rain, or any other cause,, 
shake it out as much as possible ; tfien with a clean 
linen cloth or handkerchief wipe the hat very care- 
fully as well as you can, observing, that in so doing, 
you keep the beaver flat.and smooth, in the same 
^ direction as it was first placed, then with your hands 

' fix it in the original shape, and hang it at a distance 

i. from the fire to dry. A few hours after, or the next 

morning, lay the hat on a table, and brush it round 
and round several times with a soft brush in the pro- 

{)er direction, and you will find your hat not in the 
east injured by the rain. 

> * 

-< ■ 

r 



t 



MO CEOTHES. 



« 



If the gloss is not quite so high as yon wish, taker. 
a flat iron, moderately heated, and pass the same 
two or three times gently over the hat; brush it aft- 
erwards ; and it will be nearly as handsome as when 
first sent home from the sliop^, 

211. Preventives against the Ravages of the Moth*. 

The most usual preventives against the injury 
occasioned by the moth are cedar-wood and tobac- 
co leaves.. A piece of the former put iato a box, Ot 
sufficiently large to emit its peculiar odour to what- 
ever may be contained, in it, will effectually pre- 
serve the cloth from injury; and it Is well known,, 
that in libraries where there are books bound witli. 
Russia leather, which is tanned with cedar, no moth 
or worm, will corrupt. It is common to put cedar, 
shavings, and chips into boxe.s,. &c. which.answciv 
just as well as the wood itself.. 

Tobacco leaves, may be placed at certain inter-- 
vals in the folds of a piece of woolen cloth ; and it. 
is sufficient to examine them once in six months, in. 
Oi'der to reAcw the leaves if necessary. 

•21^. Easi/ Method of preventing Mdths in Furs or- 
Woolens* 

' Sprinkle the furs or woolen stuffs, as well as thci 
drawers or boxes ickwhi«^h they are kept, with spi- 
rits of turpentirte; the unpleasant scent of which, 
will speedily evaporate, on exposure of the stuffs ta 
the air. Some persons place sheets of paper, mois- 
tened with spirits of turpentine,, over, under, or be- , 
tween pieces of cloth, &c. arid find it a very efiec- 
tual method. 

21 3. To preserve Furs, Woolens ^ ^c, 

MSmy woolen drapers put bits of camphor, the 
size of a nutmeg, in papers, on different parts of 
^Reirshelves in their shop ; andias they brush their, 
cloths every twoj threo,^or foui* months, this kceepi^ 



CLOTHiES- HI 

Chem free from moths; and thU should be done ii> 
boxes where furs, &c, are put. A tallow candle is 
frequently put within each muff when laid by. 

214. To keep Moths, Beetles, ire, from Clothes. 

\ ^ Put a piece of camphor in a linen bag, or some 
aromatic herbs, in the drawers, among linen or 
woolen clothes, and neither moth or worm will come 
near them. 

^15, Topurifif Wool infested with Insects. 

The process of purification consists in putting in- 
to three pints of boiling water a pound and a half of 
ahim, and as much cream of tartar, which are di- 
lated in twenty-three pints more-of cold water* The 
wool is then left immersed in this^^liquor during some 
days, after which it is washed and dried. After this 
operation it will no longer be subject to be attacked 
by insects. 

3-16, Chinese Method of rendering Cloth Water-proofs 

To one ounce of white wax, raelte* add one- 
quart of spirits of turpentine, which, when tho- 
roughly mixed and cold, dip the cloth in and hang 
it up to dry. By this cheap and easy method, mus--. 
liti, as well as the strongest cloths, will be rendered 
impenetrable to the hardest rains, without the pdres 
• being filled up, or any injury doue, when the cloth, 
fs coloured. 

SI 7. J^ezo Method of cleaning StUcs, Woolens and 

Cottons* 

The foltowing receipt is recommended as a good 
method of cleaning silk, woollen, and cotton goods, 
without damage to the texture or colour of the 
same : 

Grate paw potatoes to a fine pulp in clean water, 
and pass the liquid matter througa a coarse sieve 
lata another vessel of water j let* the mixture stand 



Uj2 CtOTHES. 

Still till the fine white particles of the potatoes orer 
jvecipitatcd ; then pour the mucilaginous liquor 
from the fecula, and preserve the liquor for use.-. 
The article to be cleaned should then be laid upon. 
a linen cloth on a table, and having provided a clean 
sponge, dip the sponge into the potatoe liquor, and- 
apply it to the article to be cleaned, till the dirt is 
perfectly separated ; then wash it in clean water se- 
veral times. Two middle-sized potatoes will be suf- 
ficient for' a pint of water.. The- white fecula will, 
answer the purpose of tapioca, and make an useful 
nourishing food, with soup or milk, or serve to make 
starch and hair-powder. The coarse pulp, whichL 
does not pass the sieve, is of great use in cleaning 
worsted curtains, tapestry, carpets, or other coarse 
goods..- The mucilaginous liquor will clean all sorts 
of silk, cotton, or woollen goods, without hurting or 
spoiling the colour ; it may be also used in cleaning 
oil paintings, or furniture, that is soHed; Dirtied' 
painted wainscots may be cleansed by wetting a 
sponge in the liquor; then dipping it in a little fine 
clean sand, and afterwards rubbing the wainscot, 
with it.. 

218. To stop the Rapidity of Flames when the Fc* 
male Dress happens accidentally to take Fire. 

If a wollen cloth was constantly kept in nurse- 
ries and sitting-rooms, especially when there are 
fires, laid loose upon the table, or other piece of 
furniture, this being always at hand, might be easi-- 
ly resorted to in case of accident, and being wrapt 
tight round the flames, or strongly pressed against 
them, would, by excluding the air, in many instan- 
ces, soon extinguish the fire. A green. baize dotli 
being very pliable, and likewise a neat cover to fur- 
niture, is recommended for this purpose ; and if 
Rjich were known in the family by the name of the 
Stifling Clothf it probably would as readily be nsod. 



CLOTHES* H3 

trhen there was occasion for it, as fire engines and 
^buckets are now. Care must be taken to procure 
baize of a close texture. Where the convenience of 
Jbaize cloth cannot be easily procured, as in cot- 
, tages, &;c. a cloth cloak^ riding-coat, or bfanket, 
will answer much the same purpose. A man's coat 
will always be useful ; and the first man that arrives 
ought to ap^ply it. 

219. To prevent Clothes from Catching Fire. 

One of the^ most evident methods to prevent 
clothes from catching fire, is, to have wire fenders 
placed bdfore the fire-place, of a sufficient height, 
10 hinder the C0i>ls from flying into the room ; such 
fenders are so placed in some parlours, but more, it 
is believed, for protecting the marble hearth and 
carpet, than for the safety of the females and chil- 
dren of the family. Wire screens are sometimes 
placed in rooms where birds are let loose, parallel 
to the fire-plaqe ; such as these, if more projecting 
ones should be objected to, might be used in com- 
mon sitting-rooms- One or two strong metal bars 
would be some protection, if close wire- work should 
not be liked ; these, of course, should come some 
way forward, otherwise they would not be of much 
use. Certainly the safest are fenders of close wire- 
work, projecting into the room, sufficiently open to 
let the heat through, but not any coals which might 
fly from the fire. Nurseries, in particular, should 
have this sort. 

220. Permanent Ink for marking Lineh. 

Take of lunar caustic, (now called argentum 7ii' 
tratum) one dram ; weak solution, or tincture of 
gialls, two drams. The cloth must be first wetted 
with the following liquid, viz. salt of tartar, one 
ounce; water, one ounce and a half; arKl must be 
perfectly dry before any attempt is made to write 
tip on iu 



144 CLOTHES* 

021* • Another. 

Dissolve -one dram ofTunar caustici, Or fiise(3 ni* 
4rate of silver, which is soCcl by the chemists for a- 
tout 4(], in less than half an ounce of pure water, or 
water into which a drop or two of nitric acid has 
fallen. Add as much clear solution of gum arabic as 
will enable you to write freely ; and the mixture 
will soon become opaque, of a dark greenish hue% 
^ little charcoal, or rather indigo, ground very fine, 
tnay be added, to make the traces of the letters 
more visible as you form them," for t)therwise they 
would not be very distinct unless written in the sun^ 
or a strong light. But this is in part answered by 
the dark hue given to the gum. 

222. Another* 

Pour aboiit twenty-five parts of boiling water 
over one part of quick-lime and two of soda. In 
the clear weak ley obtained by filtration or deposi- 
tion, dissolve a little isinglass, or the scraped epi- 
dermis of the skin, and add as much soda in powder 
as was used for t^e ley ; isinglass, or even glue, 
dissolved in water, will answer; but the colour-is 
not so brilliant, and the solution soon putrifies ; — 
that made with soda will keep for years. 

Wet thoroughly with the solution of isinglass the 
part of the cloth which is to be marked ; dry it well 
and smooth it with a bit of silver or glass ; then 
write lightly with a clean pen, and expose the writ- 
ing for a minute to the sun, or a short time to the 
day-light. The superfluous glue should not be wash- 
ed out till the next day. 

If there be too much nitrat in the ink, it will be 
apt to run or blot. In that case dilute it with clear 
gum-water. If there be too little nitrat the ink will 
be pale ; then drop a small bit of the fused nitrat in* 
to the vial. 

The caustic must be lifted in paper or with the 



^'ints of the scissars, as before it is dissolved it 
4>urRs the fingers ; and even the solution makes an 
indelible stain on the skin and the nails* 

The ink bottle should be wrapped in strong pa- 
per, or kept in a dark place, and not exposed for 
«ny long time to the sun or light. 

223. To perfume Linen. 

Rose leaves dried in the shade, cloves beat to St 
powder, and mace scrapedj mix them together, and 
put the composition into little bags. 

224. To raise the Surface or Pile of Velvet when 

pressed dweon* 

Warm a smoothing-iron moderately, and cover it 
vitha wet cloth, ancThold it under the velvety the 
vapour arising from the heated cloth will raise the 
pile of the velvet, with the assistance of a rush 
ivhisk. 

225. To prevent Danger from Wet Clothes. 

Keep if possible in motion, and take care not lo 
go near a fire or into any very warm place, so as to 
occasion a sudden heat, till some time after you 
have been able to procure dry clothes. 

526. Useful Hints felalite to Bedclothes^ Mattresses^ 

-Cushions J 8ic. 

The purity of feathers and wool employed for 
tnattressos and cushions ought to be considered as 
"a first object of salubrity. Animal emanations may, 
under many circumstances, be prejudicial to the 
health ; but the danger is still greater when the 
wool is impregnated with sweat, and the excremen- 
tiiious parts of persons who have experienced pu- 
trid and contagious diseases. Bedclothes and the. 
wool of mattresses, therefore, cannot be too often 
beat, carded, cleaned, and washed. This is a cau* 
lion which cannot be too often recommended. 



« It would be very easy in most situations, and ve- 

' / ry effectual^ to fumigate tfaem with muriatic gas. 

/ 227 T^ clean SUk Stockings • 

Wash your stockings first in white soap liquor, 
. lukewarm, to take out -the rough dirt ; then rinse 
them in fair water, and work them well in a fresh 
soap liquor. Then make a third «oap liquor, pretty 
fitrong, in which put a little stone blue, wrapped ia 
a flannel bag, till your liquor is blue enough ; then 
wash your stockings well therein, and take them out 
and wring them* Then let them be dried so tha£ 
they may' remain a little moist ; then stove them with 
brimstone, a&er which, put upon the wood leg two 
stockings, one upon the other, observing that the 
two fronts, or outsides, are face to face, then polish 
them with a glass. 

N. B. The two first soap liquors muM be only 
lukeMrarm, the third soap Hquor as hot as you can 
l)ear your hand in it. 

B]onds and gauzes arc whitened in the same 
manner, only a little eum is put in the soap liquor 
i)etore they are stovea. 

^8t. Preservatwe from Moths in Clothu or Books^ 

Get some narrow slips of the best Russia leather, 
and lay the same indiscriminately among the clothes, 
)K)oks, &C. The leather may be procured at any 
bookbinder's in town, and a pound, which will ia^ 
A longtime^ co&ts about a shilling. This will have 
the desired efiect, k having been frequently used 
«rith j;^eat success* 

:339« Con^ositwn for restoring Scorched Linen^ 

Boil, to a good consistency, in half a pint of vine- 
gar, two ounces of fuller's earth, an ounce of hen's 
dung, half an ounce of cake soap, and the juice of 
two onions. Spread this composition over the whole 
of the damaged part ; and^ if the scorching were not - 



qaite trirougb, and the threads actually consumed,, 
after suflcring it to dry on, and letting it receive a 
subsequent good washing or two, the place will ap- 
pear full as white and perfect as anysither part of 
the linen* 

230. Vulgar Error respecting the putting of Spirits 
intt)' the Boots or Shoes to prevent the Ejects ofColdk 

The custom of pouring brandy into the boots or 
shoes, when the feet have got wet; with a' view to 
prevent the effects of cold, is a practice which 
(though very common) is founded in prejudice and 
misconception, and often proves fetal, By Bringing, 
on inflammation and consequent obstruction in the 
bowels. This practice is adopted on the supposition- 
that, because spirits, when swallowed, excite an 
universal warmtii and restore the circulation in the 
extremities, they must do the same when applied tO' 
the extremities themselves. But the reverse hap- 
pens. Fluids, when evaporating, produce cold ; antf 
the lighter or more spirituous the fluid, the more * 
quickly it evaporates, and the greater the degree of 
6old generated. This may be proved by a very sim* 
pie experiment. If one hand be wetted with spirit 
and the other with water, and both are held up to 
dry in the air, the hand wetted with spirit will feel 
infinitely colder than the othef ; or if the bulbs of 
two thermometers be so treated, the mercury will 
be observed to fall much more rapidly and exten- 
sively in the one case than in the other. Whatever 
danger, therefore, arises from cold or damp feet, it 
is generally enhanced by the practice alluded to. If 
such a remedy is to be at all employed, it ought, ttor- 
doubi^edly, to be taken into the atocaach*- 



CHAPTER XIIL 

GURiosrriES. 



$31. Sir AshtonLever^s Method of preserving Blrdk 

and Beastsm 

Beasts. — Large beasts should be carefully skin- 
ned, with the horns, skull^ jaws, tail, and feet, lefr 
entire ; the skins may then either be put into a ves- 
sel of spirit, or else rubbed well in the inside with 
the mixture of salt, alum, and pepper, hereafter 
mentioned, and hung to dry. Small beasts may be 
put into a cask of rum, or any other spirit. 

Birds.— Large birds may be treated as large 
beasts, but must not be put in spirits. Small birds 
may be preserved in the following manner: — take 
out the entrails, open a passage to the brain, which 
shoald be scooped out through the mouth ; intro- 
duce into the cavities of the skull, and the whole bo- 
dy, some of the mixture of salt, alum, and pepper, 
putting some through the gullet and whole length of 
the neck ; then hang the bird bn a cool airy place, 
first by the feet, that the body may be impregnated 
by the salts, and afterwards by a thread through 
the under mandible of the bill, till it appears to be 
sweet, then hang it in the sun, or near a fire ;^ after 
it is well dried, clean out what remains loose of the 
mixture, and fill the cavity of the body wiih woo(, 
oakum, or any soft substance, and pack it smooth 
in paper. 

Fishes, &c. — Large fishes should be opened in 
the belly, the entrails taken out, and the inside well 
rubbed with pepper, and stuffed with oakum. Small 
fishes put in spirit, as well as reptiles and insects,, 
except butterflies and moths, and any insects of fine 



aoloui^, should be pinned down in a box prepared 
for that purpose, with their wings expanded. 

S32« Birds shot in this Kingdom* 

. When fresh killed, observe to put low into the 
mouth, and upon any wound they may have receiv- 
edy to prevent the feathers being soiled ; and then 
wrap it smooth, at full length, in paper, and pack 
jt close in a box. If it be sent from a great distance, 
the entrails should be extracted, and the cavity fil- 
led witli tow dipt in rum or other spirit. The fol- 
jEbliowing mixture is proper for the preservation of 
animals : one pound of salt^ four ounces of alum, 
and two ounces of pepper, powdered together. 

233. Ruhsfbr collecting Curiosities on Sea Voyages, 

Set apart a small cask of spirits, into which put 
every uncommon sea production you may meet with 
during the voyage, and wrap every article separate, 
tfi a rag, or a little oakum. 



CHAPTER XIV. 
DAIRY.. 



234. Proper Temperature for a Dairy,, 

The apartments appropriated for dairy purpoges 
should, if possibte, possess a moderate temperature 
throughout the year^ and should be kept perfectly 
clean and dry. The temperature of about fiftyAre 
degrees is most favourable for the separation oRne 
cream from the milk. The utensils of the dairy are 
best made of wood ; lead and copper are soluble in 
acidj and highly pernicious ; and though iron is not 

II 21- 



150 DAIRV. 

injurious, the taste of it might render the produce of 
the dairy unpalatable. 

235. Rides for milking Co7cs» 

Cows should be milked three times a day, if fully 
fed, throughout the summer; and great cautioa 
should be exercised by the persons employed, to 
draw the milk from them completely, not only to in- 
crease the quantity of produce, but to preserve its 
ouality. Any portion which may be lett in the ud- 
aer seems gradually to be absorbed into the system, 
a^nd no more is formed than enough to supply the 
loss of what is taken away ; and, by the continu- 
ance of the same nuxie, a yet farther diminution of 
the secretion takes place, until at length scarcely any 
is produced. This last mode of milking is always 
practised when it is intended that a cow should be 
rendered dry* 

^36. Method of making excellent BuJtter from the 
Milk of Cov>8 fed upon T\irnip3» 

Let the bowls, either lead or wood, be kept con- 
stantly clean, and well scalded with boiling water, 
before using.. When the milk is brought into the 
dairy, to every eight quarts mix one quart of boil- 
ing water ; then put up the milk into the bowls ta 
stand for cream. By keeping strictly to this method^ 
you will have, during the winter, constandy sweet 
and well-tasted butter from the milk of cows fed up- 
on turnips* 

237. Improved Method of making Butter. 

If the dairy consist of three or four cows they 
sho^ be milked in the summer thrice a day ; in the 
md||ing, at noon, and in the evening. Eack milkine 
must be kept by itself, in flat wooden vessels, to cool 
in like manner ; and thus in succession for two or 
three days, according to the temperature of the air, 
the milk thickening, and thence is fit for churning, 



DAIRT. I5t 

« 

soonest in the warmest weather. The quantity <^ 
butter will be generally in the proportion of a pound 
(twenty- two ounces) for each ten pints, or five Eng- 
lish gallons of milk. In winter the cows are to be 
milked only twice a day, and the milk is to be put 
into the churn warm from the cow, where it must 
stand a day or two longer than in Summer before it 
becomes sufficiently thick; although, to promote 
the coagulation, it is sometimes brought near the 
kitchen fire, particularly on the preceding night be- 
fore it is churned j and, in intense cold, it will be 
necessary to add a small quantity of boiKng water. 
The operation of churning is performed with the 
plunge churn, from two to three hours, for thirty or 
forty pints of n&ilk ; and at^Kie last stage of the pro- 
cess, a little cold water thrown in has the efiect of 
promoting the separation of the butter from the milk,, 
and making it twice a day t and even before the 
eloth is taken oS^ the top and bottom are well rub- 
bed every day. 

N. B. The dairy-maid must not be disheartened 
if she does not succeed perfecdy in her first at- 
tempt. 

238. Dr. Andersov?8 Mtthod of keeping Milk and 

Butter. 

The pernicious method of keeping milk in leaden 
vessels, and salting butter in stone jars, begins to 
gain ground in this country, as well as elsewhere, 
from an idea of cleanliness. The fact is, it is just 
the reverse of cleanliness ; for, in the hands of a 
careful person^ nothing can be more cleanly than 
wooden dishes, but under the management of a slat- 
tern, they discover the, secret, which stone 'dishes 
do not. 

* In return, these latter communicate to the butter, 
and the milk, which has been kept in them, a poi- 
sonous quality, which inevitably proves destructive 



1:$2 DISTIX.LIKG* 

to the human constitution. To the prevalence of thj» 
practice, I have no doubt (says the doctor) we must 
attribute the frequency of palsies, which begin to 

Erevail so much in this kingdom; for the well- 
nown eflfect of the poison of.Iead is, bodily dcbili^ 
ty, palsy, death ! 



CHAPTER XV. 
DISTILLING. 



23^. A' cheap Refrigerator or Condenser. 

A short, somewhat flat, vessel, two yards in 
length, nine square feet surface, with the same quan- 
tity of cold water, has a greater cooling power than 
a worm of five spiral turns and six yards length ; 
end if there be a small pipe to connect the still and 
the condenser, the condensing water will continue 
cold a much longer time. 

240. To try the Purity of Sprits. 

See if the liquor will burn away without leaving 
any moisture behind. As spirit is much lighter than . 
water, place a hollow ivory ball in it 5 the deeper 
the bail sinks, the lighter the liquor, and conse- 
quently more spirituous. 

241. To cure Spirituous Liquor of bad Flavour. 

If common raw spirits be agitated with charcoal, 
they ytill be deprived of their bad flavour; but if 
kept in the cask long afterwards, are very apj to re* 
sume the old flavour. 



OI5TILLI]ffQ. t5S 

24^. hnprovtmtnt of Smell and Taste of common 

Ardent. Spirits* 

By distilling eight ounces of connnon ardent spi* 
nits (corn or malt spirits) over one ounce of charcoal 
powder, the smell and taste are considerably im- 
proved. 

243. To improve the Flavour of Malt Spirits. 

The flavour of malt spirits is said to be highly 
improved, by putting three ounces aiul a half of 
finely powdered charcoal, and four ounces and a 
half of ground rice, into a quart of spirits, and Iet« 
ting it stand during fifteen days, frequently stirring" 
it ; then let the liquor be strained, and it will be 
found nearly of the same flavour as brandy. 

244. Expeditious Method of distilling simple Wa- 

ters. 

"^ Tic a piece of muslin, or gauze, over a glazed 
earthen pot, whose mouth is just large enough to re- 
ceive the bottom of a warming-pan ; on this cloth 
lay your herb clipped, whether mint, lavender, or 
whatever else you please ; then place upon them 
the hot warming-pan, with live coals in it to cause 
heat just enough to prevent burning, by which 
means, as the steam issuing out of the herb cannot 
mount upwards, by reason of the bottom of the pan 
just fitting the brim of the vessel below it, it must 
Mecessarily descend, and collect into water at the 
bottom of the receiver, and that strongly impregnatr 
ed. with the essential oil and salt of the vegetable 
thus distilled ; which, if you want to make spirituous^ 
or compound water of, is easily done, by simly ad- 
ding some good spirits, or French brandy to it, which 
will keep good for a long time, and be much, better 
than if the spirits had passed through a still, which 
must of necessity waste some of their strength. 
Care should be t'akea not tp let the Ike be too strongs 



Itist it scorch the plants ; andto be made of char* 
coal, for continuance and better regulation, which 
must be managed by lifting up and laying down the 
lid, as you want to increase or decrease the degrees 
of heat. The deeper the earthen pan, the cooler the* 
season; and the less fire at first (afterwards to be 
gradually raised), in the greater perfection will the 
distilled water be obtained. 

As the more moveable, or volatHc parts of vege-- 
tables, are the aqueous, the oily, the gummy, ih© 
resinous, and the saline, these are to be expected in^ 
the waters of this process; the heat here employed' 
being so great as to burst the vessels of the plants, 
some of which contain so large' a quantity of oil, 
that it may be seen^swimming.on the surface of the 
water. 

Medical waters thusprocnred will afford us near- 
ly all the native virtues of vegetables and give us a 
mixture of their several principles, whence they in a 
manner come up to the expressed juice or extract 
gained therefrom: and if brandy be at the same 
time added to these distilled waters^ so strongof oil 
andsaUi a- compound, or spirituous water, may be 
likewise procured, at a cheap and easy rale. 

Although a sm^ll quantity only of distilled water 
can be obtained at a time by this combined opera- 
tion, yet it compensates in strength whal is deficienL 
in quantity. 

Such liquors, Jf well corked up from the air, will- 
keep good a long time, especially if about.a twenti- 
eth part of any spirits be added, in o^der to preserve 
ibe same more effecttiafiy.. 



30HBSTIC BCQsoar. tSi 

CAAPTER XVI. 
DOMESTIC ECOM)MY, 



r 

v246. Topurify Infectious Air in a Room. 

Fumigate the apartmeirt with muriatic acid gas, or. 
with a little oxymuriatic gas. Care must be taken 
not to inhale ^the oxy muriate, as it is poisoiu 

246. To prcserv/i Fish and MetCi in Ike Portugtust 

Mctnner^ 

The Portugue^ make a trade of what they call 
j>e8chf moluz^ which is fish cut in small pieces, with 
salt and sugared, tamarind. Pish thus preserved may 
1>e carried to sea, and will noi be found too salt, 
ileal may also be thus preserved, by throwing away 
the stones and strings of the tamarinds^ and adding 
a small portioB of Cayenne pepper* 

247. Easy Method of preserving Animal Food sweet 
for several Days in the Height of Summer. 

Teal, mutton, beef, or venison, may be kept for 
nine or ten days perfectly s-weet and good, in the 
heat of summer, by lightly covering the same with 
bran, and hanging k in a high and windy room ; 
therefore, a cupboard full -of small hole«, or a wire 
safe, so a5 the wind may have a passage through, is 
recommended to be placed in such a room, to keep 
away the flies. 

248. To preserve Game in Hot Weather. 

Game or poultry may be preserved for a long 
4ime, by tying a string tight round the neck, so as to 
<^xclude the air, and by putting a |>iece of cluwcoal 
into Xhe vent. 



1'56 DOMESTIC ECfONOMT. 

249. To preserve Meat hy Treacle* 

This experiment has been successfully tried in 
the following manner : — A geDtleman put a piece of 
' beef into treatle, and turned it often. At the end of 
a month he ordered it to be washed and boiled, and 
had the pleasure to find it quite good, and more 
pleasant than the same piece would have been in 
salt for that time. But the expense of this method 
must confine.it to the opulent. 

250. To preserve Bt(^ and Mutton^ in a sound Slate^ 

a Voyage to the West Indies. 

As soon as the meat is cold it must foe cut up in 
-quarters, and sprinkled with the following ingredi- 
ents: lignum vitaB, in finecfaips, one pound; com- 
mon salt, four ounces ; coarse sugar, four ounces ; 
salt prunella, half an ounces when it has been well 
sprinkled in, close the whole in sheet lead, lay it in 
a chest, and fill it with fresh saw-dust. Meat so 
prepared has been kept two months in the finest 
order. When taken out to be dressed it should be 
wiped and scraped clean, and roasted as quick as 
possible. 

'25 1 . The useful Properties of Charcoal^ for sweeten^ 
ing the Breathy cleaning the Teeth^ <$^c. 

All sorts of glass vessels and other utensils may 
Tie purified from long retained smells of every kindf, 
in the easiest and most perfect manncrr, by rinsing 
them out well with charcoal powder, after the gros- 
ser impurities have been scoured off with sand and 
potash. Rubbing the teeth, and washing out the 
•mouth, with fine charcoal powder, will render the 
teeth beautifully white, and the breath perfectly 
sweet, where" an offensive breath has been owing to 
-a scorbutic dispostion of the gutns. Putrid water is 
immediately deprived of its offensive smell by char* 
c^>ak 



DOMESTIC EfcON*63it» ' IW 

Hoi, To sweeten Meat, Fish, ^c. that is tainted. 

TVhen meat, fish, &cc» from intense heat, or long 
Iteeping, are likely to^ass into a state oftorruption^ 
a simple and pure mode of keeping them sound and 
healthful, is by putting a few pieces of charcoal, each 
the size of an egg, into the pot or saucepan, where- 
in the fish Of flesh are to "be boiled. Atnoug others, 
an experiment of this kind was tried upon a turbot, 
which appeared to be too far gone to be eatable : 
the cook^ as advised, put three or four pieces of 
charcoal, each the size of an egg, under the strain- 
er, in the fish kettle ; after boiling the proper time^ 
the turbot came to table perfectly sweet and firm. 

253. To punfy Jt^-bloton MeUt. 

It has been successfully prbved, by many exper*- 
iments, that meat entirely fly-blown, has been suf- 
ficiently purified to make good broth, and had not 
a disagreeable taste, by being previously put into a 
vessel containing a certain quantity of beer. The 
liquor will become tainted, and have a putrid smell. 

254. To cure tainted Fish* 

Tainted fish may be much restored to its proper 
flavour by mixing a quantity of vinegar and salt in 
the water in which the fish is to be boiled. 

255. To preserve Water and Meat, from PuirefaC" 

tion^ in long Voyages^ 

' The crews of the two Russian ships, which lately 
sailed round the world, were extremely healthy. 
During the whole three years of their voyage only 
two men died of the crew of the Neva, and the Na- 
vesha did not lose a single man^ It is already knowa 
that their fresh water was preserved in charred 
casks, but it is not so generally known thatthey us- 
ed the same precaution for preserving their salted 
provisions. The beef they carried out with theai 



1^9 I^OMBSTIC ECONOMT. 

tasted as pleasantly upon tlieir return, as it did three 
years before, when first salted. 

^56^ To deUct Dampness in a Bed. 

Let your bed be first well warmed, and immedi- 
ately as the warming-pan is taken out, introduce be- 
tween the sheets, in an inverted direction, a clear 
glass jgoblet; after it has remained in that situation 
a few minutes, examine it; if found dry, arid not 
tarnished with drops of wet, for there will often ap- 
pear a slight cloud of steam, the bed is safe ; but if 
drops of wet or damp adhere to the inside of the 
glass, it is a certain sign of a damp bed. Eyea 
wearing apparel, when on the person, wilt in most 
parts of England, by the application of a waitmingt. 
pan, stain glass, with a sHght steam, but not drops of 
yret. Or, take off the sheets and sleep in the blank- 
ets. 

257. Hints <m Wanning Beds* 

In taking the coals into the warming-pan, remove 
therefrom any black coals in a burning state, and 
scatter upon those in the pan a little common salt; 
this will correct the unhealthy sulphureous vapour 
of the coals, and prevent their suffocating smelU 

268. Beef Tea. 

Take lean beef, a pound, cut it in thin slices. 

Jut it into a quart of water, boil it a quarter of an 
our ; then taVc out the meat, mince it small, and 
boil it a quarter of an hour more, skimming it well. 

5^9. imprxrcemeni m the Management of Bees. 

The improvcnicnt is that of having dotible skeps 
or hives, the one on the top of the other. When the. 
lower skep is filled with honey, it is to be removed 
after the bees are admitted {through a passage which 
is made to be opened) into the upper skep ; into 
this skep food must be put, and the bees will remaia 



0o»£i?Tic BcoNOirr; 159 

there, and go on with their work in it. When it is 
filled with honey, the former skep, with food in it, 
may be Feplaced, and the bees again admitted into 
itr The full skep is then to be taken away. This 
change of the skeps must always be made about 
Midsummer; and by thus annually removing the full 
one, more honey will be coHectea than is usual, and 
the bees will not be destroyed^ 

260. Approved Method of removing Bees-. 

Set the hive where there is only a glimmering; 
light ; turn it up; the queen first makes her appear-* 
ance ; otice in possession of her, you are master of 
all the rest; put her into an empty hive, whither 
she will be followed by ihe other bees. 

^61. Useful J\Ietkod~~j[f preserving Bees^ as lately 

adopted m America* 

Instead of destroying whole swarms in their 
hives, to get the honey when the hives are full, they 
clear them out into a fresh hive, while they take the 
combs out of the old one ; and they prevent their 
perishing in winter by putting a great quantity of 
honey into a very wide earthen vessel^ covering its 
surface with paper, exactly fitted on,* and pricked 
full of holes with a large pin ; this being pressed by 
the weight of the bees keeps a fresh supply contin- 
ually arising* Their nrwst fatal destruction by se- 
Tcre cold they prevent, by taking as many large 
tubs as they have hives, and knocking out the 
heads, they set the other end ia the ground, laying 
a bed of dry earth or chopped hay in it, of six inch- 
es deep ; over this they place the head knocked 
cut, and then make a small wooden trough for the 
passage of the bees ; this is transfixed through a 
hole cut through each side of the tub, at such a 
height as to lay on the false bottom, on which is 
placed the covered dish of honey for the food of the 



IC9^ £^OJ»£STIC SCOKOUr* 

bees, leaving a proper space over this'covered witf* 
strong matting ; tbey then fill up the tub with more^ 
dry earth, or chopped hay, heaping it up in the 
form of a coae, to keep out the rain, and wreathing 
it over with straw on account of the warmth. This 
method is so secure, that out of a hundred tubs, a 
few winters since, when this experiment was tried, 
not one of them was known to fail. The quantity of 
honey this way obtained has been amazing, and be- 
•sides, mu?t every year increase, wherever the ex^ 
ample is followed* 

262. Chinese Method of^ mending China*. 

Take apiece of flint-glass, beat it toa fine pow- 
der, and grind it well with the white of an egg, and 
it joins china without rivetting, so that no^rt caa 
break it in the same place. You are to observe,^ 
ihat the composition is to be ground extremely fine 
on a painter^s stone. 

363. ^ To discover Vitrial in Beer* 

A decoction of galls will turn it blackish, if thi*^ 
be the case. 

2GU Excellent Substitute for Table Beer* 

As small beer is apt to become sour in warm 
weather, a pleasant beer may be made, by adding 
10 a bottle of porter ten quarts of water, and a 
pound of brown sugar or molasses. After they have 
been well mixed, pour the liquor into bottles, and 
place them, loosely corked, in a cool cellar. In two 
«ir three days it will be fit for use. A spoonful of 
i^inger, added to the mixture, renders it more lively 
and agreeable to the taste. This might be adopted 
in the navy instead of grog. 

'^65. To make good Spruce Beer^ 

This cheap and wholesome liquor is thu«made : 
take of water sixteen gallons, and boil the half of 



l>6ircsTiC tc<y}f6wr, -161 

it ; pot the Wdt^r thus boiled, wfail^ in fult1ie8[t, to 
the reserved cold part, which should be previously 
^ut into a barrel or other vessel; then -add 10 
pounds of treacle or molasses, with a few table- 
spoonfuls of the essence of spruce, stirring the 
Avhole well together; add half a pint of yeast, and 
Iteep it in a temperate situation, with the bung-hole 
open, for two days, till the fermentation be abated ; 
then close it up, or bottle it off, and it will be fit to 
drink in a few days afterwards. In North America, 
and perhaps in other countries, where the black and 
white spruce firs abound, instead of adding the cs-» 
sence of the^pruce at the same time with the molas- 
ses, they make a decoction of the leaves and small 
branches of these trecs^ and find the liquor equally 
good.- 

It is a powerful antiscorbutic, and may prove ve- 
ry useful in a long sea voyage. 

266* New-Invented Composition to he used instead of 

iicast^ - 

To make eight quarts of this composition, boil iii 
common water eight pounds of potatoes, as for eat- 
ing; bruise them perfectly smooth, and mix with 
them, whilst warm, two ounces of honey, or any 
other sweet, and. one quart (being the eighth part of 
a gallon of yeast) of common yeash And, for mak- 
ing bread, mix diree beer pints of tbe above com- 
position with a l>ushei of fk>ur,.using warm water ia 
making the bread; the water to bei^Farmer m win- 
ter than in s^ummer ; and the composition to be used 
in a few bouEs after it is^ade-^ amdafrsoon as the 
sponge (the mixture of the eomposition with the 
Sour) begins to fafl the &st time^ the bread should : 
bte made akd put in the oven* 

"^T* To make Botlhs Mir^ight^ 

This may be done without luting or grinding, and 
consists in only having a groove round the neck^ 









}62 DOMESTIC ECONOMY* 

into which the cap fits, so that the groove may be 
charged with water or mercury. 

^BB* To loosen the Glass Stopples of Smelling BoU 

ties and Decanters. 

With a feather rub a drop or two of olive oil 
yound the stopple, close to the mouth of the bottle 
or decanter, which must be then placed before the 
fire, at the distance of a foot or eighteen inches ; in 
which position the heat will cause the oil to spread 
downward between the stopple and' the neck. When 
the bottle or decanter has grown warm, gently strike 
the stopple on one side, and on the other with any 
light wooden instrument ; then try it with the hand.. 
If it will not yet move, place ft again, before the 
fire, adding, if you choose, another drop of oil. After 
a while strike again as before : and by persevering 
in this process, however tightly the stopple may be 
fastened in, you will" at length succeed in loosening^ 
it. 

26£^» Another Method. 

Rub the neck of the bottle up and down with ^ 
small key, hitting the head of the stopper every 
time, which wiH in general loosen it. 

270. Improved Corks-Jhr- preserving Wine or Che*- 

ndcal Liqudrs. 
Melt together two parts of white wax and one 
part of beef suei; dip your corks in this mixture^ 
and immediately dry them in a istove upon an iron 
plate; repeat thi* operation twice, and the corks 
thus prepared will preserve any liquor well without 
imparting any ill flavour thereto. 

271. To judge ef the Quality of Wheat Hour*. 

As the state of wheat, is ascertained by the quanr 
titj and quality of the glutinous matter^ contaii»^ 




DOMESTIC irCONOUr« 1C3 

ihe following method is made use offer extracting 
ibat matter from it :. 

Take four ounces of the flour of wlieat, separat- 
ed from the bran : let it be mixed with water so as 
to form, a thick paste^. which must be thoroughly 
kneaded for a quarter of an hour. The paste is aft- 
erwards to be well washed, continually kneading it 
•with the hands under the water, and changing the 
•water from time to time* This washing and knead- 
ing are to be continued until the water no longer 
becomes white by the operation ; the glutinous 
matter, which i* of a whitish grey colour, then re- 
mains in the hands. If the wheat was sound the 
matter is glutinoas and elastic, if the wheat was 
heated the matter will be brittle, if the wheat was in 
a state of fermentation.no glutinous matter will be 
obtained from it*. 

372, To .^VQVtr whether Hour he adulteretted with 

Whitening or Chalk* 

Mix with the flour some juice of lemon or good 
vinegar; if the flour be pure they wiU remain to«- 
gether at.rest, hut if there be a mixture of whitening 
or chalk, a fermentation, or working like yeast, 
will ensue* The adulterated meal is whiter and hea- 
vier than the good. The quantity that an ordinary 
-tea-cup will contain has been found to weigh more 
than the quantity of genuine flour by four drachms 
arid nineteen grains troy.. 

273. Another.. 

Pour boiling water on some slices of bread, and 
then drop in some spirit of vitrioL This will pro- 
duce a violent hissing andebullition, if there be any 
of the above ingredients. For quicker dispatch, th0 
vitriol may he poured on the bread itself. Vinegar 
and juice of lemons will have the same effect^ hul 
in a slighter degree. 



164 DOMESTIC SCONOXr. 

274. To discover if Bread is (idulUraUd with Alum^ 

Make a solution of Have in aqualfbrtis, and put a 
little of this solution into w^ter, in which you have 
steeped the bread suspected to contain alum. If 
«uch should be the case, the acid, which was com- 
bined with the altrm, will form a precipitate or chalky 
eoncretion at the bottom of the vessel. 

275. To preserve Biscuit from Putrefaction. 

To preserve biscuit a long time sweet aind gooc^y^ 
rfN) other art is necessary than stowing it well baked 
-in casks exactly caulked^ and carefully lined with 
tin, so as to exclude the air; at the same time the 
biscuit must be so placed as to leave as little vacant 
(room as possible in the cask ; and when the same i« 
opened through necessity, it must be /speedily elosh 
ed again with great care. 

J276. Thpreser&e Sea-Bread fivm the WeeiU. 

The fatal effects of the weevil in sea-bread have 
long been severely felt by seamen employ e^di^ long 
voyages ; rewards have been humaiiely oflfered by* 
the legislature for a cure or preventive, but Mtberto 
willaoul success. 

The following fact was discovered by accident^ 
I3fnd is now offered to the public as a bint worthy 
the attention of those who may be employed in sui> 
plying ships with provisions, or to captains, and the 
owners of vessels, and may, in all probability, les- 
sen, if not wholly remove, an inconvenience so i«- 
jurious to our valuable navigation. A bag belonging 
to a powder^H fell into a quantity of Iiqi^id nitt-e f 
It was imoiediatdy taken out, plunged into cold wa* 
ler, and hung to dry ;. several; days after .this cir- 
cumstance the bag was fiiled with sea-biscuits, and 
sent on board a West Indiaman^ whei^ it was stow- 
led aAvay among the captain's ST^yctev The vessel 
wft$ nine months out of England before she proceed^ 



DOJTESTie ECOXOMr. T65 

td on her pnssage home, when she got bccalmecf, 
and remdined so long in that s-itualion that her crew 
was forced to be put on half allowance, more partic- 
ularly so, as their bread was much destroyed by 
the weevils, and was hourly consuming* The cap- 
tain at this time wishing to make use of the bag a- 
bove-mentioncd, which had not been opened since 
the ship left England, ordered it to be examined^ 
when, greatly to his surprise, the whole contents 
were found to be perfectly sound, without any ap* 
pearance of having beea injured by any insect what- 
ever ; a circumstance solely to be attributed to tha 
quality of the bag. 

277. To make Artificial or Potatoe Bread". 

Put a pound of potatoes in a net. into a skillet 
with cold water, and (lest the skin break, and let in 

the water). hang it at a distance (so as not to boil)^ 
over the fire till they become soft ; then skin, mash, 
and rub them so as to be well mixed with a pound of 
flour, a very large spoonful of salt, and tw^o large 
spoonfuls of yeast; but less of the yeast is better* 
Then add a little warm water, and knead it up as 
other dough ; lay it a little while before the firie to. 
ferment or rise, then bake it in a very hot oven. 
Bread made in this manner has been frequently tri- 
ed, and found to be well-tasted, wholesome, and of 
good contistence. 

'^73. Bread made from the Water Gktdiole. 

The root of the flowering rush, oi* water gladiole, 
when driecland ground, makes a bread but little in- 
ferior in colour, i*ucpia>ent, or taste, to that made 
from wheaten flour. It is the common food of the 
Calmucs, and, in deficient harvests, is used in many 
of the northern parts of the continent* 



166 DOMESTIC ECOMOHT* 

279. Ferment for Breads used by the Inhabitants of 

Long Island in the State of <New-York* 

Take as many hops as may be held between the 
thumb and three fingers; put them into a pint and 
a half or a quart of water, and boil them weli toge- 
ther. If you have some apples, or a pumpkins, in the- 
house, cut a few slices of either of tnese, and throw 
in, and it will be all the better. Then pour the li» 

Sior off, or strain it through a coarse cloth, and add 
rce OP four spoonfuls of molasses, and stir in as 
much flour as will mingle with it to the consistence 
of thin batter. Set the whole in the corner of the 
kitchen fire-place, or in any temperature of mode- 
rate warmth, until a ferriientation takes place, whicb 
will happen in. a few haur^,. and then mix it with, 
flour. 

This will be sufficient for one baking, for a fami- 
ly of eight or ten persons*. 

280. New Method of makihg Flour without Grain* 

Take turnips,.. potatoes^ parsnips and white beetr 
grind or grate them fine ; then put the substance in- 
to water, and let it remain A^rein several hours ; 
then strain ofl' the water, and add iresh water ia 
quantity sufficient to cover the substance. Continue 
to repeat this process until the water poursoff quite* 
clear. Then strain and press the water from the ve- 
getable substance, which is to be dried on a kiln, or 
other proper convenience. When the substance is 
quite dry, grind it in a corn or other proper mill,, 
until it becomes fine flour. Either of the above ve- 
getables alone, or any two or more of them mixed 
together, and prepared as before specified, will an- 
swer for the purpose* The foregoing description is 
for the making coarse or common flour ; when the 
best or fine flour is to be made, pare or peel the rind 
oflTlhe vegetables before they are ground or grated*. 



f 



BOXESTIC £CONOKT« 167 

Then pvrsue the same process as with the coarse of 
cooifflon flour. 

281. Improved Method of Hilting Butter and Meat. 

Best common salt two parts, saltpetre one part, 
sugar one part ; beat them up together, so that they 
may be completely blended* To every sixteen oun- 
ces of butter add one ounce of the composition ; mix 
it well in the mass, and close it up for use. — It 
should not be used for a month, that it may be tho- 
roughly incorporated. Butter, thus cured, has been 
kept for three years perfectly sweet. Keep the air 
from it, or it spoils. Cover it with an oiled paper, 
and a board on that. 

To cure meat, add one ounce of the above com- 
position to every sixteen ounces of meat. It must be 
very well rubbed into the meat. You cannot have it 
too finely powdered, nor too well rubbed into the 
meat. 

282. Method of curing bad Tub Butter* 

A quantity of tub butter was brought to market 
in the West Indies, which, on opening, was found 
to be very bad, and almost stinking. A native of 
Pennsylvania undertook to cure it, which he did, in 
the following maner: — 

He startea the tubs of butter in a large quantity 
of hot water, which soon melted the butter: he then 
skimmed it off as clean as possible, and worked it 
oyer again in a churn, and with the addition of salt 
ajid fine sugar, the butter was sweet and good. 

283. Method for taking the Rankness and disagree* 

able Taste from Irish Salt Butier, 

The quantity proposed to be made use of, either 
for toasts or melting, must be put into a bowl filled 
with boiling water, and when the butter is melted, 
skim it quite off; by this method it is so separated 
from any gross particles, that it may require a smali 



168 DOMESTIC EtJONOHr. 

addition of salt, which may be put into the cold wa** 
4er that is made use of in melting butter for sauce ^ 
and though the butter is oiled by hot water, it be- 
comes a fioB cream in the boiling for sauce. 

284. To remove the Taste of Tw^nips from Milk or 

Butter. 

The taste of the tqrnip is easily ta^en off milk and 
butter, by dissolving -a little nitre in spring water, 
which being kept in a bottle, and a small tea*cup- 
ful put into eight gallons of milk, when warm from 
the cow, entirely removes any taste or flavour of the 
turnip. 

^^5 To make Salt Butter fresh* 

Put four pounds of salt butter into a churn, with 
four quarts of new milk, and a small portion of ar- 
notto. Churn them tqgether, and, in aboiat an hour, 
tate out the butter, and treat it exactly as fresh but- 
ter, by washing it in water, and adding the custom- 
ary quantity of salt. 

This is a singular experiments The butter gains 
about three ounces in each pound, and is in every 
particular equal to fresh butter. It would be greatly 
improved by the addition of two or three ounces of 
fine stJgar, in powder. A common earthen churn 
answers the same purpose as a wooden one, and 
may be purchased at any pot shop* 

286. Chickzveed. 

The young shoots and leaves, when boiled, caa 
scarcely be distinguislied from spring spinage, and 
a^e equally wholesome. 

287. To prevent Children from eating their Food toQ 



'? 



Children, when very young, get into the habit of ; 

mating their food too quickly, particularly fruit, and ' 

other subtances of which they are fond. To prcvetit 



BOHESTIC ECONOMY* 169 

thioir acquiring this habit, amusing devices might 
be employed, as cutting an apple, a pear, a piece 
of cake, or any other article oi the same sort, into a 
number of pieces, arranging them in lines like an 
army, with one as an officer in the centre, and ieU 
ling them that the whole army must be devoured, 
jfiece by piece, and in a regular manner! This inte- 
rests little children so much, that they soon prefer . 
it to.a inore speedy mode of consumption. 

28S. To prevent the Formation of Crust vpon^ihe In- 
side of Tea'Ketlles. 

A Put into the tea-kettle a flat oyster shell, and keep 
/it-constantly there, it will attract the stony particles 
that are in the water, to itself, and prevent their 
fc^ming upon the tea-kettte. 

Or, as the shell occasions a disagreeable noise, 
regularly clean the inside of the kettle. No crust 
forms on common saucepans which are cleaned 
whenever they are used. 

289. To make Chocolate from Cocoa JVuts. 

^ Chocolate is made of the small cocoa bean sepa- , 
rated from its shells, which being first coarsely 
pounded in a stone mortar, is afterwards levigated 
on a slab of the finest grained marble ; to this a small 
quantity of vanilla is added. The mixture is heat- 
ed, and put into tin moulds of the size in which the 
cakes appear. 

290. Coffee. 

V The infusion or decoction of Ae roasted seeds of 
the coffee-berry, when not too strong, is a whole- 
some, exhilarating, and strengthening beverage; and 
when mixed with a large proportion of milk, is a 
proi>er article of diet for literary and sedentary 
people. It is especially suited to persons advanced 
in .years. People who are bilious and liable to co«h- 
tiveness should abstain from it, When draok very 



'?t79 DOMESTIC ECONOHT.* 

Strong, it prOyes stimulating and heating in a consid- 
erable degree, creating thirst and producing watch- 
falciess» By an abusive indulgence in this drink, the 
organs of digestion are impaired, the appetite is 
destroyed, nutrition is impeded, and emaciation, ge« 
n^ral debility, paralytic affections, and iiervous fe- 
ver, are brought on. 

291. The Virtues of Coffee. 

Cofiee accelerates digestion, corrects crudities, 
removes choHe and flatmencies. It mitigates head- 
aches, cherishes the animal spirits,. takes away list- 
Jessness and languor, and is sernce«ible4n:all ob* 
^tructions arising from languid circulation. It is a 
wonderful restorative to emaciated constitutions, 
^nd higbly refreshing to the studious and sedentary. 

The habitualuse of cofiee would greatly promote 
sobriety, being in. itself a cordial stimulant; it is a 
most, powerful antidote to the temptation of spiritu- 
ous liquors. 

It will be ibund a welcome beverage to the rd- 
bust labourer, who would despise a lighter drink. 

292. Turkic or Arabian Mode of preparing Coffee^ 

The coffee ground or beaten to an impalpable 
powder is ^preserved, by .closely pressing it down in 
a \yooden 'box ; and the quantity required for use is 
scraped from the surface by means, of a wooden 
spoon. Two small coffee-pots are employed ; in one 
is boiled the water, generally mixed with the re- 
maining coffee of a former .meal ; in xbe other is put 
the fresh powder, which is sometimes placed near 
the fire, to become liea^ed before the boiline water 
is added to it. The mixture is then boiled two or 
ttvee times, taking <:ai$ to pour a few drops of cold 
water upon it the last time, or to place a cloth dip 
ped in cold water over it ; then it is allowed tosuo- 
fiide, and aft^wards poured into the coffee-pot whicb 
contained only the boiling watef. 




DOMESTIC ECOXaiCT* Hi 

?r. B. The quantity of cofTce powder necessary 
to make a fine strong tinctiH'e of coffee may be esti- 
mated -as one coffee-cup of coffee powtJep, to thtee 
dishes of proper coffee-liquor for the tabte*- 

293. Cheap and valuable SubstitlUe for Coffee, 

The flour of rye, and English ycHow potatoes, are' 
found an excellent substitute for coffee. These in- 
gredients are first boiled, then made into a cake, 
which is to be dried in an oven, and afterwards re- 
duced to a powder, which will make a beverage ve- 
py similar to coffee in its taste, as well as in other 
properties, and not in the least detrimental to health*. 

294. Excellent Substitute for Coffee^ 

The seeds of the flower de luce, or common yel- 
low water flag, being roasted in the same manner as 
coffee, very much resemble it in colour and flavour,. 
but have something more of a saccharine odour, 
approaching to that of extract of liquorice. Whert* 
carefully prepared they possess much more of the 
aroma of coffee than is to be found in any of the le- 
guminous and gramineous seeds that have been 
treated in the same manner. Coffee made of these 
seeds is extremely wholesome and nutricfous, in the 
proportion of half an oimce, or an ounce, to a pint 
of boiling water. 

295. Another. 

The seeds of foreign grapes have lately been dis- 
covered to be an excellent substitute for coffee. 
When pressed, they first produce a quantity of oil,, 
and afterwards, when roasted and boiled, furnish a 
liquid much resembling that produced from coffee. 
The practice is rapidly becomipg general in Ger. 
many. 

296. Acorn Coj^e.. 

Take sound and ripe acorns, peel off the shell oi*- 



172 DOMESTIC ECQXQMY. 

husk, divide the kernels, dry thcra gradually, and 
then roast them in a close vessel or roaster, keepir)>g 
them contimialjy stirring; in doing which special 
care must be taken that they be not burnt or roast- 
ed too much,. both which would be hurtful* 

Take of these roasted acorns (ground like other 
coffee) half an ounce every other morning and even- 
ing, alone mixed with a drachm of other coffee, and 
sweetened with sugar, with or without milk. 

This receipt is recommended by a famous Ger- 
main physician, as a much esteemed, wholesome, 
nourishing, strengthening nutriment for mankind: 
• -which, by its medicinal qualities, has been found 
to cure the slimy obstructions in the r/scera, and lo 
remove nervous complaints when other medicines 
have failed. 

Ec2nark. — Since the duty was taken off, West In- 
dia coffee is, so cheap that substitutes are not worth 
making. On the continent the roasted roots of the 
wild chicory, a common weed have been used with. 
o^dvautagc. 

207. For improving Coffee, 

To valetudinarians and others, the following me- 
thod of making coffee for breakfast is earnestly re- 
commended as a most wholesome and pleasant jen- 
tacular beverage, first ordered by an able physician. 

Let one ounce of fresh ground coffee be put inUi 
a clean coffee-pot, or other proper vessel well tin- 
ned : pour a pint and a quarter of boiling water 
tipon it, set it on the fire, let it boil thoroughly, and 
afterwards put by to settle ; this should be done on 
the preceding night, and on the following morning 
pour off the clear liquor; add to it one pint of new 
milk ; set it again over the fire, but do not let it 
boil. Sweetened to every person's taste, coflfee thus 
made is a most whiiesome and agreeable break- 
fast, summer or winter, with toast, bread and bu> 



J 



DOMESTIC ECONOUTf 



ITS 



(er, rusk$» biscuits, &c. This process takes off that 
raw, acidous, aod astringent quality of the coffee, 
"which makes it often disagree with weak stomachs* 
It should not be drank too warm. 

A gentleman of the first fortune in the kingdom, 
after a variety of medical applications in vain, was 
restored to health by applying to the above bever- 
age morning and afternoon. 

An improved Method of making the Coffee BeveV" 
age. — To an ounce of coffee add a common tea- 
spoonful of the best flour of mustard seed, previous 
to the boiling. To those unacquainted with the me* 
thod, it is inconceivable how much it improves the 
fragrancy, fineness, transparency, and gratefully 
quick flavour of the beverage, and probably too it 
adds to its wholesomeness. 

298. To preserve Eggs for a Length of Time. 

Put an egg for one minute in water just about to^ 
boil, (it will not in that time be too hard) and it will 
afterwards keep well for a month. Steep one a little 
while in sweet oil, and it will keep for half a year«. 

299. Bist Method of cleaning Jine Block-tin Dish 

Covers^ Patent Pewter, 4rc. 

Where the polish is gone off, let the articles be 
first rubbed over the outside with a little sweet oil,. 
on a piece of. soft linen cloth ; then 'clear it off with 
dry pure whitening, quite free from sand, on linen 
cloths, which will make them look as well as whea 
new. The insides should be rubbed with rags moist- 
ened in wet whitening,, but without a drop of oil.^ 
Always wiping these articles dry, when brouglil^ 
from table, and keeping, them free from steam oi? 
other damp, greatly facilitates the trouble of cleans- 
ing them* 

3Q0. Cleaning Floor MjL^ths. 

After sweeping and cleaning the floor cloths witb^ 

b2 



< J" 



174 DOi[£STiC SCOVOtfir. 

• 

a broom and damp flanoel, m ^e usual maimer, wet 
them over with milk, and rub them til) beautifullj^ 
bright, with a dry cloth* They will thus look as 
wen as if they were rubbed first with a waxed flan* ' 

nel, and afterward with a dry one ; without being so 
slippery, 'or so soon clogging with dust or dirt. 

301 • To clean Gold and Siher Lace. 

Sew the bee in linen cloth, and boil it in a pint 
of water, and two ounces of soap ; and then wash 
the lace in water* 

309. 3b re$tor€ the Lustre of Glasses tarnished by I 

jfg« or Jtccident. 

Strew on them powdered fullerVearth, carefully 
cleared from sand, &c« and rub them carefully 
with a linen cloth. Oxide of tin (putty) would per*- 
haps be better. 

303. To clean Flint Glass Botttes^ Decanters, ^c* 

4rc. 

Roll up, in small pieces, some whited-brown or 
blotting-papw ; then wet and soap the samo ; put 
them into the vessel, with a little luke-warm water; 
shake them wtll for a few minutes ; then rinse the 
^lass with clean water, and it will be as bright and 
clear as when new from the shops. 

304. To clean Mahogany Furniture* 

Three pennyworth of alkanet root, one pint of • 

cold drawn linseed oil, two pennyworth of rose jlink ; 
put these into a pan, and let them stand all ni^ht : 
i^en take some of this mixture, rub it over the tablea 
"^ or chairs, and let it remain one hour ; then take a li- 
tien cloth and rub it well off, and it will leave a beau- 
tiful gloss on the furniture. 

If Uie pinky shade occasioned by the alkanet root . J 

and pink is disag^kible; they may be omitted itt " 

part or entirely, i 



J 




DOMESTIC CCONOmr* 17S 

M5« ♦ ThelmnHirkeif Carpets. 

. To revive the colour of a Turkey carpet, beaf i# 
well with a stick till the dust is all got out ; then, 
with a lemon or sorrel juice, take out the spots of 
ink, if the carpet be stained ivith any ; wash il in 
cold water, ana afterwards shake out all the water 
from the threads of the carpet. When it is thorough- 
- ly dry, rub it all over with the crumb of a.hot wheatr 
en loaf; and, if the weather is very fine, hang it out 
in the open air a night or two. i 

306. To clean Marbk. 

Take a bullock's gall, a gitf of soap tbes, half a 
gill of turpentine, and make it into a paste with pipe 
clay; then apply it to the marble, and let it dry a 
day or two ; then rub it off; and, if not clean, ap- 
ply it a second or third time until it is clean. 

307. Another. 

Muriatic acid, either diluted or pure, as occasion 
may require, prove efficacious. If too strong it wifl 
deprive the marble of its polish, which- may be ea- 
sily restored by the use of a piece of felt, with some 
powder of putty or tripoli, with either making use 
of water. 

308. 7b clean Alabaster or Marble. 

y^ Beat pumice stones to an impalpable powder, and 
mix it up with verjuice; let it stand for two hours^ 
then diplt into a sponge, and rub the marble or ala- 
baster, wash it with a linen cloth and fresh water^ 
and dry it with cleao linen rags. 

309. Mixture for cleaning Stone Stairs, Hall Pave* 

ments, ^c • 

Boil toge&er half a pint each c^ size and stone 
blue water, with two tab)e-spooi^|b of whiting, and 
two cakes of pipemaker's clay, ^Ribout two quarts 
•f wateit Wash the stones over with a flannel idight- 






176 I>OXESTIC ECC^'OfiT. 



m 



Ty wetted in this mixttfte ; and, irben drjii rub tLem 
%vith flannel and a brush. Some persons recommend 
be^r, but water is much better for the purpose. 

310. The Danger of Children eating gilt Ginger- 
breads or any Article covered with such a Compo- 
sition. 

There are frequently sold eatable things, as ima- 
ges of sugar,. &:c. having on them what people ima- 
gine to be gold leaf, but which is, in reality, leaves 
of copper, beat out in imitation of it, which is so 
dangerous a poison as to demand the interference 
of government, to prevent the sale of such articles ; 
irreparable mischief having been occasioned withr 
out suspicion of the cause. 

311. Varnish f(h' Furniture. 

To one part of virgin's white wax add eight part* 
of oil of petroleum ; lay a slight coat of this mixture 
on the wood with a badger's brush, while a little 
warm ; the oil will then evaporate, and leave a thia^ 
coat of wax, which should afterwards be polished ' 
with a coarse woolen cloth*. 

312. German Furniture Gloss, or Polishing Wax for 

Mahogany, 4^c. . 

Cut in small pieces a quarter of a pound of yeU 
low wax ', and, melting, it in a pipkin, add an ounce 
of weH pounded colophony, or black resin. TJie 
wax and colophony being both melted, pour in, by. 
degrees, quite warm, two ounces of oil or spirit of 
turpentine. When the whole is thoroughly mixed, 
pour it into a tin or earthen pot, and keep it covcr-^ 
ed for use. The method of applying it to the furnlr 
ture, which must be first well dusted and cleaned, is 
by spreading a little of this compasitton on a piece 
of woolen cloth^id well rubbing- the wool with ii^ 
and, iaa few ds^ the glose will be as firm and fa^r 
as vami^b. 



313* Method of chiming imd polishing Rusty Steei. 

< After well oiling the rusty parts of the steel, let it 
remain two or three days in that state; then wip^ 
it dry with clean rags, and polish with emery or 
pinn ice-stone, on hard wood. Frequently, however, 
a little unslacked lime, finely powdered, will be suf- 
ficient after the oil' is cleaned off. Where a very high 
degree of poliab is requisite, it will be most effectu- 
ally obtained by using a paste composed of finely 
levigated blood-stone and spirits of wine. Bright 
bars, however, are admirably cleaned, in a few nii- 
iiutes, by using a so^all portion of fine corned emq- 
ry, and afterwards finishing with, flour of emery or 
rotten-stone ; all of which may be had at any iron- 
monger's. Thi$ last very simple method will, per- 
haps, render any ot^her superfluous. . 

2.14. Easy Method of cleaning Paper Hangings* 

Cut into eight half quarters, a quartern loaf two 
days old ; it must neither be newer nor staler. With- 
one of these pieces, after having blown off alLthe 
dust from the paper tabe cleaned by means of a. 
good pair of bellows, begin at- the top of the room ; 
holding the crust in the^hand, and wiping lightly 
downward with the crumb,.about half a yardf at each 
Stroke, till .the upper part of the hangings is com-, 
pletely cleaned aJl round. Theii go again round, 
with the like sweeping stroke downward, always 
commencing each successive course a little higher 
than the upper^stroke had extended, till the bottom 
be finished. This operation, if carefully performed, 
will frequently make very old paper look almost 
equal to new. Great caution must be used not by 
any means to rub the paper hard, nor to attempt . 
cleaning it the cross or horizontakway. The dirty 
part of the bread, tao, must be each time cutaway, 
atid the pieces renewed as soon at at all necessary. 



lis DOATESTIC EC0Nd1#;^ 

315. To preserve Metals from Rust- 
Anoint tbem with spermaceti oil. 

316. jFoV chaning Steel or Iron-polished Slov cs» 

Stoves may be admirably cleaned in a few mia- 
\ites, by using a small portion of fine corned emery- 
:^tone ; and. afterwards finishing with flour of emery 
or rotten-stonc, eillicr of which maj; be obtained at- 
any ironmonger's. 

317. To clean Iron from Rust* 

Pound some glass to fine powder; and having: 
nailed some strong linen or woollen cloth upon a 
board, lay upon it a strong coat of gum-water, and 
sift thereon some of your powdered glass, and let it 
dry; repeat this operation three times, and when- 
the last covering of powdered glass is dry, you may 
easily rub off the rust from iron utensils, with tha. 
cloth thus prepared* 

318. How to judge the Properties ofM^tmegs. 

The largest, heaviest, and most unctuous of nut- 
megs are to be chosen, such as are the shape of an 
olivC) and of the most fragrant smelL . 

319. To take the Smell of Paint from Rooms. 

Let three or four broad tubs, each containing a- 
bout eight gallons of water, and one ounce of vitri- 
olic acid, be pLiced in the aew painted room, near 
the wainscot ; this water will absorb and retain the- 
effliivia from the paint in three days, but the wateii 
should be renewed each day during that time. 

320. Method of making Silton Cheese^ 

Take the night's cream, and put: it to the mom-- 
ing's new milk, with the rennet; when the curd is 
come, it is not to be broken^ as is done with other 
cheeses, but tal# it out with a soil dish altogelfaer, 
and place it on a siev^ to drain gradually, and^as 



DOMESTrc ECONOMl. 179 

It.di^ins, keep gradually pressing it till it becomes 
'firm and dry ; then place it in a wooden boop; aft- 
erwards to be kei>t dry on boards, turned frequent- 
ly^ with cloth-binders round it, which are to be tight- 
eaed as occasion requires* 

In some dairies the cheeses, after being taken 
out of the wooden hoop, are bound tight round 
'With a cloth, which cloth is changed every day un- 
til the cheese becomes firm enough to support itself j 
after the cloth is taken away, they are rubbed eve- 
ry day all over, for two or three months, with a 
Iwrush ; and if the weather is <lamp or moist, twice 
a day ; and even before the cloth is taken off, the 
top and bottom are well rubbed every day. 

N. B. The dairy-maid must not be disheartened 
if she does not perfectly succeed in her first attempt. 

331. Colouring for Cheese. 

The colouring for cheese is, or at least should be, 
Spanish annotto; but, as soon as colouring became 
general in this country, a colour of an adulterated 
kind was exposed for sale in almost every shop ; 
the weight of a guinea and a half of rearl Spanish an- 
notto is sufficient for a cheese of fifty pounds weight, 
if a considerable part of the cream of the night's 
milk betaken for butter, more colouring will be re- 
quisite. The leaner the cheese is the more colour- 
ing it requires. The manner of ttSing annotto, is to 
tie up, in a linen rag, the quantity deemed sufficient, 
and put it into half a pint of warm water over night. 
This infusion is put into the tub of milk, in the 
morning, with the rennet infusion ; dipping thie rag 
into the milk, and rubbing it against the palm of 
the hand as long as any aolour runs out. 

323# TofaiUn Poultry. 

Poultry should be fattened in coops, and kept 
^cry clean* They should be furni^ed with gravej^ 



160 DOHES'EiC .ECONOIf r. 

i)ut with no water. Their only food, bstrley-meai, 
mixed so thin with wa^efas to serve them for drink, 
Their-tbirst makes them eat more than they would, 
in order to extract the water that is among the food. 
This should not be put in troughs, but laid upon a 
board, which should be clean washed every tiioe 
fresh food is laid upon it. It is fo^I and iieated wa- 
ter which is the sole cause of the pip. 

323. A new Methoctof rearing Poultry to Advan-' 
tage ; commumcdteiTbi/ Mrs. D^Oyley to the Socie-- 
ty of Arts, <J/'C. 

'' I keep a large stock of poultry, wKich are re- 
gularly fed in a morning upon steamed potatoes 
chopped small, and at noon they have barley ; they 
are in high condition, tractable, and lay a ve^y 
great quantity of eggs. In the poultry yai^ is a 

-small building, similar to a pigeon cote, for the 

^hens to lay in, with frames covered with net to slide 
before each nest ; the house is dry, light, and well 
vexitilated, kept free from dirt, by having the nest« 
and walls whitC'^washed two or three times a yegir, 
anil the floor covered once a week wfth fresh ^shes-; 
when I wish to procure chickens, I take the oppor- 
tunity of setting many hens together, confining each 
to her respective ne«t ; a boy attends morning and 
evening to let any off that appear restless, and to 
see. that they return to their proper places ; when 
they hatch, the chickens are taken away, and a 
second lot of eggs allowed them to set again, by 
which mea4)s they produce as numerous a brood as 
before; I put the chickens into long wicker cages, 
placed against a hot wall, at the back of the kitch- 
en fire, and within them are artificial mothers for 
the chickens to run under; tSey are made of boards 

: about ten inches broad, and fifteen inches long, sup- 
ported by two feet in the front, four inches in heightp 

.and by a board at the back two inches in height* 



« 



i 



DOMESTIC ECOHdHY^ 181 

The roof aod back are lined with lamb'^skins dress- 
ed with the wool upon them. The roof is thickly 
perforated witif holes 'for 'the heated air to escape ; 
they are formed without bottoms, and have a ma- 
nel curtain in front, and at the ends, for the chick- 
ens to run under, which they do apparently by in* 
stinct. The cages are kept perfectly dry and 
<lean with -sand er moss. The above is a proper 
size for fifty or siity new hatched chickens, but as 
they increase in size' they of course require a larger 
mother. When they are a week old, and the weath- 
er fine,* the boy carries them, and their artificial 
«iother, to the grass-plot, nourishes and keeps 
Khem warm, by placing a long narrow tin vessel, 
filled with hot water, at the back of the artificial 
mother, which will retain its heat for three hours, 
and is then renewed fresh from the steamer. In 
•the evening' they are driven into ihcir cages, and 
resume -their station at the hot wall, till they are 
nearly three weeks old, and able to go into a small 
room, appropriated to that purpose. The room is 
burnished with frames similar to the artificial moth- 
-ers, placed round the floor, and with perches con- 
veniently arranged for^hem to roost upon. 

" When I first attempted -to bring up poultry in 
the above way, I lost -immense numbers by too 
great beat and sufibcation, owing to the roofs of the 
mothers not being sufficiently ventilated ; and whea 
^that evil was remedied 1 bad another serious one to 
encounter; I found chickens brought npinlhis way 
did not thrive upon the food I gave them, and many 
•of them died, till I thought of getting coarse barley- 
meal, and steaming it till quite soft ; the bov feeds 
'them, w^h this and minced potatoes alternately ; he 
is also em|>Ioyed rolling up pellets of dou^h, made 
-of coarse wheat flour, which he throws to the chick* 
"ens to excite them -to eat, thereby causitlg them to 
/grow surprisingly. Hens kept as mine are, and 

Q 



1^2 POAfESTIC KCONOMr« 

having the same conwnieoces, will readily set four 
tiioef ill a 8ea«oo^ and by petting twice each time, 
thoy would produce^ at the lowest calculation, eigh- 
ty ohietewis each^iHrhich -would soon make them very 
pkaiifuL" 

524- Method ^ £xpeditiou$hf JiiUening Chickens^ 

Take, for Ihat purpose, a quantity of rice, and 
grind or pomid it into a fine flour ; mix sufficient 
for prcscAt use with miljk and a little coarse sugar | 
stir the whole well over the fire, till it makes a thick 
paste; and feed the chickens, in the daytime only, 
by putting as much of it as they can eat, but no 
more, into the troughs belonging to their coops« 
it must be eaten while warm ; and, if they have also 
beer to drinl^ they will soon grow very fat. A 
mixture of oatmeal and treacle, combined till it 
crumbles, is said to form a food forichickens, of 
which they are so fond, and with which they thrive 
so rapidly, that at the end of two months they be- 
come as large as the generality of full grown fowls 
fed in the common way. 

' 325* Swedish Method of mising Turkies* 

As soon as the young turkies leave the shell, they 
are made to swallow one or two pepper-corns, and 
returned to their mother* They are afterwards fed 
with crumbs of bread and milk, and with common 
dock leaves, chopped small, and mixed with fresh 
butter-milki and kept in a warm place or sun-shine, 
jand guarded fi-om the raiu or from running among 
jiettles^ 

; Nothing, however, is more ueeful for them than 

l the common garden pepper-cress, or cut-leaved 

! cress« They are very fond of it ; and supplied 

I with as much of it as they will eat, they will not be 
I delicate in their other food. Perhaps cresses might 

* l^eeqy ally useful for young pheasants, numbers of 



DOIITESTIC ECONOMT.^ 1*8^ 

wfiich are reared by the poor cottagers in BackiQg«^ 
hamshire, for the supply of Landon. At least the 
pheasant is a bird that haunts the woods, aad Uv€9 
on the same feire as the turkey in its wild state. 

Ant eggs are the best food for tbem^ whenerer 
they can be procured^ 

326, Method of fattening Geese and Ducks^ 

Geese, the more quiet and undisturbed they are 
kept, the faster and better they fatten. 

I shall begin with what are usually called green 
geese : — Let these young geese be put in a place 
that is almost dark, and be fed with some ground 
malt mixed up with milk, and they will very soon, 
stnd at very little expense, be fit to kill ; the meth> 
od has often been tried, and the fleskhas been found 
to eat very delicate* 

I sometimes fat them in a still cheaper way, espe- 
cially when milk is scarce : I mix up some barley 
meal, pretty thick, with water, which they con- 
stantly have by them, to eat as they chuse ; in an- 
other part of the shed, where they are kept in a pan, 
with some boiled oats, and water for them to resort 
to when they are inclined to change their food- 
This variety is agreeable to them, and they thrive 
apace, being so fatted at less expense than in any 
other manner I know of. 

The manner in which 1 manage my Michaelmas 
or stubble geese, is not very different from that a- 
bove described. Immediately after harvest I turn 
them on the wheat eddishes, where they pick up 
flesh apace : but when I take them up to fatten I 
feed them with ground malt, mixed up with water, 
and give them with it boiled oats, boiled malt, or 
boiled barley, and sometimes, for change, even 
boiled wheat and water. Thus managed, they grow 
fatter and acquire a finer flavour than would at first 
be imagined, and greatly superior to those ia^the: 
London markets. 



1(4 DOUKSTiC CCONOMY*. 

I fatten my ducks in the same manner, only alt 
Jbwing them a larger pan to dabble in, which an- 
swers extremely virelh 

I keep a very considerable number of ducks foe 
breeders, having near my house the convenience 
of scvcpal ponds,, and I annually set in the spring n 
great number of duck eggs under hens ; it is there- 
fore natural that I should chuse such a breed as wilt 
lay me a large store of eggs, and I have always 
found such as have iheir mils turn up rather mors 
than ordinary to^answer this purpose best. 

327. Rules for plucking Geese, 

Geese destined for breedir^ in farm-yards, and 
which are what are called old geese, may indeed 
be plucked thrice a year without inconvenience, at 
an interval of seven weeks ; but young ones, before 
they are subjected to this operation, must have at- 
tained to the age of thirteen or fourteen weeks, and 
especially those soon destined for the table, be- 
cause they woold become meagre, and lose thecr 
quality. 

^28. To improve the Down of Geest* 

The nature of the food contributes very much la 
the value of the down, and to the strength of feath- 
ers ; the particular care taken of eecse has no less 
influence. It has been remarked, that in places 
where these birds find a great deal of water, they 
are not so much subject to vermin, aad furnish 
feathers of a better quality. 

329. To dscertain the Properties of Goose Down* " 

There is a sort of maturity, in regard to down, 
which may be easily discovered, as it then falls of 
itself; if removed too soon it wiM' not keep, and is 
liable to be attacked by worms. Lean geese fur- 
nish more than those which are fat, and are also 
more esteemed. Farmers ought never to sujflfer 



T 




DOMESTIC ECONOMY* ISS 

lers to be pulled from geese some time after 
J. are dead, for the purpose of being sold ; they 
geneVally smell bad, and become matted ; none but 
those plucked from living geese, or which have 
been just killed, ought to be introduced into com- 
merce. In the latter case the geese must be pluck- 
ed soon, and in such a manner that the opcratioa 
:iDay be terminated before they are entirely cold ; 
the feathers are then much better, . 

^30. To prevent Inconvenience from Perspiration of 

the Hands. 

• • 

Ladies who work lace or embroidery sometimes 
suffer inconvenience from the perspiration on their^ 
hands ; which may be remedied, by rubbing the 
hands frequently with a little dry wheaten bran, 

331. To purify Lemon Juice. . 

Add one ounce of pulverised, well burnt char- 
coal, to a quart of lemon juice ; after standing 
twelve hours, filter the juice through white blotting 
paper ; it will keep good several years in a cellar, 
HI a bottle well corked ; a thick crust will form 
beneath the cork, and the mucilage will fall to the- 
bottom. . 

S32. Evert/ Family to make their own Saseet OiL . 

It is reported, a person is^ going to take out a pa- 
tent for making a small hand»mill, for evety family 
to make their own sweet oik This may easily be 
done, by grinding or beating the seeds of white pop- 
pics into a paste, t^^ boil it in water, and skim off 
the oil as it rises ; rone bushel of seed weighs fifty 
pounds, and produces two gallons of oil. Of the 
swe^t olive oil sold, one half is oil of poppies. The 
poppies will grow in. any garden : it is the large- 
head white poppy, sold by apothecaries. Large 
fields are sown with poppies in France and Flan-^ 
dsrs, for. the purpose of expressing oUfrom tbeif 

<i2l 



1^6 I^OX^STIC ECOirOMlV 

seed for food. Vide lOtli and 11th vols, of &th 
Society Papers, where a premium of twelve guin- 
ieas is offered for the greatest number of acres sown 
in 1808 and 1809. Wheti the seed is taken out, 
ifce poppy bead when dried is boiled to an extract, 
which is sold at two shillings per ounce, and is to 
be preferred to o^pium, which now sells very high. 
Xarge fortunes toay be acquired by the cultivation 
of poppies. Some acres of it are now sown near 
Qambridge, and of late years also at Enfield, in 
Middlesex* 

White poppies are, however, a very precarious, 
crop in the climate of Britain ; except, perhaps, in 
Devom, and the more southerly districts. 

333* To take Mildew out of Linen^ 

/ Take soap, and rub it well : then scrape some 
fine chalk, and rub that also in the linen ; lay it on 

. ihe grass ; as it dries, wet it ^ little^ and it will come 
but at twice doing. 

33 4U 7& mokt VerjukB^ 

The acid of the juice of the crab or wilding is 
called by the country people verjuice, and is^much 
used in recent sprains, and in other cases, as a»^ 
astringent or repellent. With a proper addition of 
sugar, it is- probable that a very grateful iiquor might 
be madp of this juice, but little inferior to old hock.. 

3d5v Method of Making Vinegar. 

To every gallon of water put a powid of coarse 
Lisbon 9ugar ; kt the mixture v^e boiled, and skin^ 
med so long as any scum arli$es» Then let it be 
(>oured into proper vessels ; and when it is as cool 
as beer when worked, let a warm toast, rubbed 
over with yeast, be put to ft. Let it work about 
tyirenty-fow hours, and then put it into an iron-hoop* 
ed cask, and fixed either near a constant fire, or 
Inhere the suBuner su ftbines the greater part of the 



DOMESTIC ECOXOXT. 1^7 

day ; in this situation it should not be closely stop- 

.ped up, but a tile, or something similar, laicfon the 

bung-hole, to keep out the dust and insects* At 

«^ the end of about three months (sometimes less) it 

Sam^'^ ^^^1' ^^ clear, and fit for use, and may be bottled 

'• '• off. The longer it is kept after it is bottled the bet- 
ter it will be. If the vessel containing the" liquor 

'^ ilk^ is to be exposed to the sun's heat, the best time to* 

^•gUke^^ begin making it is in April*. 

336. Tb make Vinegar toith the Refuse of Beehives j 
^rcham, after the Honey is extracted-. 

*^ When honey is extracted from the combs by 

means of pressure,, take llie whole mass, break and 
separate it, and into each tub or vessel put one part 
of combs and two of water : place them in the sun, 
if his rays possess a sufficient power, or in a warm 
place, and cover them with cloths. Fermentation 
lakes place in a few days, and continues from eight 
' to twelve days, according to the higher or lower 
temperature of the situation in which the operation 
is performed;. During the fermentation, stir the 
matter from time to time, ami press it down with 
the hands, that it may be perfectly soaked. W.hea 
the fermentation is over, put the naatter to drain 
upon sieves or strainers. At the bottom of the ves- 
sels will be found a yellow liquor, which must be 
thrown away, because it would soon contract a 
disagreeable smell, which it would communicate to 
the vinegar. Then wash the tubs, put into them ^ 
the water separated from the other matter ; it im- 
mediately begins to turn sour; when the tubs must 
be again covered with cloths, and kept moderately 
warm* A pellicle or skin is formed on their sur- 
face, beneath which the vinegar acquires strength ;. 
in a month's time it begins to be sharp; it must be 
left standing a little longer, and then put into a cask, 
of which the bung-hole is left open, and it may 
then be used like any other vinegar* 



tOT "DOMESTIC ECOXOMT. 

337. To strengthen Vbnegar. 

Suffer it to be repeatedly frozen, and separate 
the upper cake of ice or water from it. 

238. . Balsamic and Anti-putrid Vinegar. 

Acetic acid may be mixed with aromatics, as in 
Henry's thieves vinegar, taa quantity sufficietit for 
a small stnelling-boltle, at no great expense. But 
it is the acetic acid which is useful,' and not the aro- 
ma tics, which are added for the pleasure of the per- 
fume. Acetous acid or common vinegar, with or- 
without aromatics,. has little or.no anti-g^utridquaK 
ity. 

339.. Gooseberry Vinegar.", 

Take the gooseberries^, when full ripe, stamp: ^ 
them small ; to every qqart put three quarts of wa- 
ter, stir them well together; let it stand twenty-four 
hours, then ^strain it through a canvas bag. 

To every gallon of liquor- add one pound of? 
brown sugar, and stir them well together before yoa... 
barrel your liquor. 

The old bright yellow English gooseberries are 
the best. 

340; To make Primrose Vinegar. 

To fifteen quarts of water put six pounds of btowtt-^ 
sugar; let it boil ten minutes, and take' off the 
scum : pour on it half a peck of primroses ; before 
il is quite cold putinalitde fresh yeast, and let it- 
work in a warm place all night ; put it in a. barrels 
in the kitchlen, and when done working, close the 
barrel, still keeping it in a warm place*. 

•341. Method of rendering putrid Water sweet. . 

In a course of experiments which a gentleman was- 
making, he had occasion to mix clay with a largy- 
:jquahliiy of water in. a cis;tern.. 



DOJI^TIC KC0N0JI7. 189^ 

Aher the water and clay had remained thus iniXf 
ed for some weeks, he tasted the water before it 
should be thrown out, and found it sweet and well 
flavoured. On this hfi stirred them, to find whether 
any putrid stench..migbt arise from the boUom, but 
was agreeably surprised to find that the whole was^ 
equally sweet. ^ 

He now resolved to keep it longeron order to de- 
termine what effect time might have on the mixture, 
and, if my memory serves me right, r€peate4 the 
tastings and stirrings for several months, with equal 
success, though some part of the tio^ ^vas summer,. 
durinflT which he expected that, the water would, 
have become highly putrid.. 

He communicated this discovery to the Society 
for the Encouragement of Arts, &c. it was referred 
to the Committee of Chemistry, with orders ta« 
make what experin^nts^ should seem to them requi* 
site to determine a point so necessary to the wel- 
fare of numbers, as. many diseases are known tO' 
take their rise from putrid water. The whole was 
confirmed by the report of the committee. Here is 
then a very easy means whereby every cottager haa^ 
ii in his power constantly to use sweet and whole- 
some water^ 

It is DO more than mixing with water a quantity 
of common clay, sufficient to take off its transparen- 
cy, so far as that the hands, held just under the sur» 
face, shall not appear through it. 

J^ote. — This experiment nas since been tried by 
mixing clay with putrid water in a close salt-glazed 
earthen vessel. The water did not become sweet. 
The experiment must be made in a close vessel, fpr 
the effect of ventilation in sweetening putrid water 
is well known. Now water in astoneorleadcistera 
freely exposed to the air, and particularly if the 

{growth of confervas be prevented by excbidiog the 
i|;hjt will not become putrid in the gireatQst heat ot 



190 D02JESTrC ECONOlffr. 

this <jlkDate5 unless it be mixed wkh o very uncom- 
mon proportion of some decom[M>scable animal or 
vegetable substance. The diffusing of clay iu wa- 
ter may however have some efiect upon it ; for it 
has been observed, that horses prefer the water of 
a clay-pit: and if there be any disengaged vitriolic 
acid in the claj^that acid may take off the putrid- 
ityi 

Perhaps charred casks preserve water longer, 
tbaa any other method* 

m 

342* To purify Water for domestic or other Pur- 
poses*. 

This method is extremely simple, and consists in 
placing hoi^izontally, in the midst of a common wa- 
ter butt, a false bottom, perforated with a great num- 
ber of small holes. The butt being^ thus divided in- 
to two equal parts, the upper is fiHed with pieces of 
charcoal, which must be neither too large nor too 
small, thoroughly burned, lights and well washed^ 
Immediately under the cock, by which the water 
enters the butt, must be placed a small hollow cy- 
linder^ being merely to.oreak the force of the wa- 
ter, and prevent it from falling upon the charcoal 
with such violence as to detach from it any parti- 
cles of dirt, and wash them through into the lower- 
receptacle J it is of little consequence of what mate- 
rial it is. made*. M* Siauve thinks that this contrive 
ance might be made subservient to the interests of 
agriculture as well as domestic economy ; and that 
it would be highly advantageous to provide water 
thus filtered for the cattle, dkiring the whole of the 
dpg-days, and particularly when the ponds and 
sreams are infected by the rotting of the hemp and. 
flax. 

jRcmarA:.— -A very good filtre may be made of 
charcoal, but it is comparatively expensive ; and 
there is a patent for the only way in which the fiUr^ 



.^ 



^ VmiE^BTlC ECONOMY. 191 

can be made to last. In the above receipt, if the 
charcoal is not in very fine powder, it will have lit- 
*lle effect in purifying the water; if it be, the char- 
coal will very soon ciioke from the quantity c^ mud 
deposited in it by the water, and the frequent re- 
newals of the charcoal, which would be necessary 
from the choking, would be found expensive. The 
contrivance could only be useful as a|^emporary 
caeans of ascertaining the power of the charcoal oa 
the particular kind of water, with a view afterwardi 
to procure a proper filtre. 

-343. To purify Water/or Drinking* 

Filler river water through a sponge, more or less 
compressed, instead of stone or sand, by which the 
water is not only rend<?red more clear, but whole- 
some; for sand is inseif^ibly dissolved by the wa- 
ter, so that in four or five years it will have lost a 
iifth part of its weight. Powder of charcoal should 
•be added to the sponge when ibe water is foul, or 
fetid. Those who>exaraine the large quantity of ter- 
rene matter on the inside of tea-kettles will be con- 
vinced all water should be boiled before drunk, if 
they wish to avoid being afflicted with gravel and 
stone, &c. &C. 

^44. To purify the muddy Water of Rivers or Pits* 

Make a number of holes in the bottom of a deep 
^ub^ lay some clean gravel thereon, aiid above this 
«ome clean sand 4 sink this tub in the river or pit, 
so that on.ly a few inches of the tub will be above 
4he surface of the watery the river or pit water will 
filter through the sand, and rise clear ihrough it to 
ihe level of the water on the outside, and will be 
pure and limpid. 

345. Method of making putrid Wattr sweet in n 

MghthTime. 

Four large spoonfuls of unslacked lime pui inta 



193 BOIIESTIC ECONOHY. • 

a puncheon of niitety gallons of putrid water, at sea^ 
will, in one night, make it as clear and sweet as the 
best spring water jast drawn ; but unless the water 
is afterwards ventilated sufficiently to carbonize the 
lime, it wiH be a lime water. Thr-ee ounces of pure 
^mslacked lime should saturate ninety gallons of 
water. 

346. To pkvent the Treezing of Water in Pipes in 

the Winter Time^ 

By tying up the ball-cock, during the frost, the 
freezing of pipes will pften be prevented ; in fact, 
it will always be prevented where the main pipe is 
higher than the cistern or other reservoir, and the 
pipe is laid in a regular inclinalion irom one to the 
other, for then no water canVemain in tbe^Dipe ; or 
if the main is4ower than ^tlfe -cistern, and the pipe 
Tcgularlv inclines, upon ^the supplies ceasing, the 
pipe will immediately exhaust itself into the main* 
Where water is in^therpipes, if each cock is left a 
little dripping, this^circuiation of the water will fr^e* 
quently prevent the , pipes from\reing frozen. 

347. Easy Method of purifying Water^ 

Take a common garden pot, in the midst of which 
place a piece of wicker work ; on this spread a lay»» 
er of charcosil of four or five inches in thickness, 
and above the charcoal a quantity of sand. The 
surface of the sand is to be covered with paper 
jiierced full of holes, to prevent the water from 
makiftg channels in it. This fiker is to be renewed 
occasionally. By this process, which is ^at once 
simple and economical, every person is enabled te 
procure pure limpid water at a v^ry trifling ex- 
pense. 

348. The best Method (^ obtaining pure ISoftWaterj 
for Medicinal Purposes ^ without distilling it. 

<Place an earthen pan in the fields, at a consider* 



I! 



DOMESTIC BCONOMT. 193 

nhh distance from the smoke of any town, to catch 
the rain as it falls from the clouds. The water 
should be put into perfectly clean bottles, and the 
corks well secured with wax, and if the bottles are 
put into a cool place, the water will keep sweet for 
several years. 

^49. To purify River or any other Muddy Water. 

Dissolve half an ounce of alum in a pint of warm 
water, and stirring it about in a puncheon of water 
just taken from any river, all the impurities will soon 
settle to the bottom, and in a day or two it will be- 
come as clear as the finest spring w^ter. 

350. Warm Water. 

Warm water is preferable to cold water, as a 
drink, for persons who are subject to dyspeptic and 
bilious complaints, and it may oe taken more freely 
than cold water, and consequently answers better as 
adiluent for carrying off bile, and removing obstruc- 
tions in the urindi|^ secretion in cases of stone anU 
gravel. When water, of a temperature equal to that 
of the human body, is used for drink, it proves con* 
siderably stimulant, and is particularly suited to 
dyspeptic, bilious, gouty, and chlorotic subjects. 

351. To make Sea- Water Jit for washing Linen at 

Sea. 

Soda put into sea-water, renders it turbid ; the 
lime and magnesi^ fall to the bottom. To make sea- 
water fit for washing linen at sea, as much soda 
must be put in it, as not only to effect a complete 
precipitation of these earths, but to render the sea- 
v'ater sufficiently lixivial or alkaline. Soda should 
always be taken to sea for this purposp. 

352. Proper Method of making ToasVand Water^ and 

V the Advantages resulting therefrom. 

^;^Take a slice of fine and stale loaf-bread, cut v«- 



\ 



mA MMCBSTIC EG<»IOIiy» 

ry tbin^ (as Uaa as least is ever cut,) and let ^it l3e 
carefully toasted on both sides, until it be complete^ 
browned mil over, but no v^ise blackened or burned 
in any way* Put tbts into a <:oaimon deep stone or 
china jug, and po»r over it, from the tea-kettle, as 
rinuch clean boiling water as you w^^h to make into 
drink. Much depends on the water being actually 
in a boiling state* Cover the jug with a saucer or 
plate, and let the drink cool until it be quite cold^ 
it is then fit to be used : the fresher it is made the 
better, and of course the more agreeable. The a- 
bove will be found a pleasant, light, and highly diu« 
retic drink. It is peculiarly grateful to the stomach, 
and excellent for carrying off tiie effects of any ex- 
cess in drinking. It is also a most excellent drink 
at meals, and may be used in the summer time, if 
more agreeable to the drinker. 

353. To I9i4g|e u Vessel f»r filtering WaUr. 

Where water is to be filtered in lar^e quantitiesi, 
ts for the purposes of a family, a, particular kind of 
soft, spongy stones, called filtering-stones, are em« 
ployea. These, however, tboueh the water perco* 
fates through them very «fine, and in sufficient quan- 
tity at first, are liable to be obstructed in the same 
manner as papeiTf and.are then rendered useless. A 
better method seems to be, to have a wooden vessd 
lined with lead, three or four feet wide at top, but 
tapering so as to end in a small orifice at the bot- 
tom. The under part of the vespel is to be filled 
with very rough sand, or gravel, well freed firom 
earth by washing ; over this pretty fine sand may 
be laid, to the depth of twelve or fourteen inches, 
hv\ which must likewise be well freed from earthy 
(>articles« 

The vessel may then be filled up to the top with 
ivater, pouring it eently at first, lest the sand should 
be loQ mucb displaced* It will soon filter through 



WMOffSTlC BCOHOKY. 195 

the 5«ncl, and run out at the lowe^orifice exceeding- 
ly transparent, and likemee in< irery coasldecabTe 
quantities. When the upper part of the sand b^ins 
to be stopped up^ so as not to allow a free passage 
to the water, it may occasionally be taken off, and- 
the earthy matter washed from it, when it will be 
equally serviceable as before* 

^54. Tht Turkish Mttkod of filtering water hy- Ai^ 

ctnsion* 

They make two wells, from five to ten feet, or 
any depth, at a small distance, which have a com*- 
munication at the bottom. The separation must be 
of clay well beaten, or of other substances impervi- 
ous to water. The two wells are then filled with 
sand and gravel. The opening of that into which 
the water to be filtered is to run, must be somewhat 
higher than that into which the water is to ascend ; 
and this must not have sand quite up to its brim, 
that there may be room ibr the filtered water ; or it 
<nay, by a spout, run into a vessel f^aced for that 
purpose. The greater the difference is between the 
height of the two wells, the faster the water will fil- 
ter ; but the less it is, the better, provided a suffix 
cient quantity of water be supplied by it* 

This may be practised in a cask, tub, jar, or other 
vessel. The water may be conveyed to the bottom 
by a pipe, the lower end having a sponge in it, or- 
the pipe may be filled with coarse sandi 

It is evident that all such particles, which by 
their gravity are|||||pirried down in filtration by des- 
cent, will not rise with the water in filtration oy as- 
cension. This might' be practised on board ships at 
little expense. 

355. To preserve Lemon Juice during a long 

Voyage, 

Care must be taken to squeeze only sound fruit, . 
afia tainted lemon will endanger the spoiling of the 



105 DOMESTIC ECONOMir* 

whole; dre expressed juiee must be depurated, by 
stao^og a few days, adding ofie ounce of cream of 
tartar to every quart of lemon juice ; filter it pretty 
clear; then it is to be put into small bottles, none 
of them containing more than a pint of juice ; '\x\ 
^he neck of the bottle, a littte of the best oil of 
olives iis to be pourc(J, and the cork well sealed 
over. 

356. Method of preserving Grapes. 

Take a cask or barrel, inaccessible to the exter- 
nal air, and put it into a layer of bran, dried in an 
oven, or of ashes well dried and sifted. Upon thisj 
place a layer of grapes well cleaned, and gathered ^ 

in the afternoon of a dry day, before they are per- ^ 

fectly ripe. Proceed thus with alternate layers of ,, 

bran and grapes, till the barrel is full, taking care 
that the grapes do not touch each other, and to let 
the last layer be of bran ; then close the barrel, so 
that the air may not be able to penetrate, which is 
an essential point. Grapes, thus packed, will keep 
Bine or even twelve months. To restore them to 
their freshness, cut the end of the stalk of each 
bunch of grapes, and put that of white grapes into 
•white wine, and that of the black grapes into red 
wine, as you would put flowers into water^ to revive 
or keep them fresh. 

35-7. Singular and simple Manner of preserving Jtp* 
pies from the Effects of Frost, in Korth America. • 

Apples being produced most jjMidantly in North ' 

America, and forming an article ^:bief necessity in 
almost every family, the greatest care is constantly 
taken to protect them from frost at the earliest com- 
mencement of the winter season ; it being well 
known, that apples, if left unprotected, are inevita- 
bly destroyed by the first frost which occurs. This 
desirable object, during their long and severe win- 
ters, is said to be completely effected, by only throv- 



'm 



]>OMESTIC BCONOIfr. t9T 

in^ over them a thin linen cloth before tfaeapproacii 
of frost, when the fruit beneath is never injured, 
how severe soever the winter may happen to prove. 
Yet' apples are there usually kept in a small apart* 
mentMmmediately beneath the roof of the house, 
particularly appropriated to that purpose, and where 
there is never any fire. This is a fact so well known, 
that the Americans are astonished it should appear 
at all wonderful : and they have some reason to be 
so, when it is considered that, throughout GermanVi 
the same method of preserving fruit is universally 
practised 5- from whence, probably, it made its way 
to North America. ■ It appears, that linen cloth only 
is used for this purpose ; woollen cloth, in particu- 
lar, having been experienced to prove ineuectuaU 
There seems abundant reason to believe, that even 
potatoes might be protected from frost by some such 
simple expedient*. 

^€marA:.-^This article, as well iats the precedinj^i 
(to which the principle seems very analogous,) 
merits high consideration ; and for the same import* 
ant reason, its capability of conducing to the uni- 
versal benefit of mankind, and the numerous ani** 
Dials under our protection. . 

358. To Iceep Oranges and Lemons. ■ 

V^ Take small sand and make it very dry ; after it • 
"^ is cold put a quantity of it into a <:lean vessel ; then 
take your oranges, and set a laying of them in the 
same, the stalk-end doi^nwards, so that they do not 
touch each otheiJIJ^nd ^ strew in some of the sand, 
as much as will cover them two inches deep ; thea 
set your vessel in a cold place, and you will find . 
your fruit ib bi^ preservation at the end of several . 
months. . 

359. Jinotherm 

'^ Freeze the oranges, and keep them in an icer 
licMise.^^ Wbea to be used, put them into a yes«d of 



108 BOXSSTtC ECONOVY. 

cold water till they are thawed. By this means they 
may be had in perfection at any season of the year. 

360. Kew Method of preserving Potatoes'* 

The following method of preserving potatoes was 
communicated by Mr, Millington, to the Society for 
Bettering the Condition of the Poor : 

I caused, (says this gentleman) three pounds and 
•a half of potatoes to be peeled and rasped; then 

Jut in a coarse cloth, between tAVO boards, in a nap« 
in press, and pressed them into a dry cake, hardly 
so thick as a thin cheese. They were then placed 
on a shelf to dry. There was about a quart of juice 
expressed from the potatoes. To this was added a- 
tout a like quantity of water, and in about an hour 
it deposited more than sixty grains of white starch 
or flour, fit to make pastry. A cake of this was pre- 
pared and sent to the Society. In bulk it occupied 
only a &ixth of the compass of the potatoes; in 
weight it had lost about two-thirds by the process ; 
but the cake, when dressed with steam or other- 
wise, will produce nearly the same quantity of food 
as three pounds and a half of potatoes, properly 
dressed for table, would do. Some potatoes, quite 
frozen, have been prepared this way, and the cake 
was perfectly sweet ; whereas some of the same 
parcel that were left, and not pressed, were rottea 
and spoiled in a few days. 

36 1 • To preserve Potatoes from the FrosU 

If you have not a convenient ^ll^e-place fortheinv 
dig a trench three or four feet deep,, into which they 
are to be laid as. they are taken up, and then cover- 
ed with the earth taken out of the trench, liaised up 
in the middle like the roof of a house, and covered 
with straw, to carry off the rain. They will be thus 
preserved from the frost, and can be taken up as 
they are wanted* 



c 






IK»ICBTIC ECONOXr. 199 

iS^'. Method of recovering Frost-BUUn. Fruiis oje 

VegeiabUs. 

This may be done by putting^ such fruits and 
roots, as pears, apples, potatoes, &c. as have been, 
penetrated by frost, into cold water, when a thaw 
approaches, and letting them remain- in the water 
some time, till by the plumpness and- fairness of the 
fruit and roots it appears that the particles of the 
frost are extracted. This method has been often 
^ tried and found toatiswer, but at the same time the 
»tmost care should be taken to preserve these things 
from the frost, as it is better to keep off an enemy 
tban.to be at. the trouble of driving him out. 

363. To- preserve ^ppies. 

/ D17 a glazed jar perfectly well, put a few peb- 
^ Bles in the bottom; fill the jar with apples, and 
cover it with a bit of wood made to tit exactly ; and 
•over that, put a little fresh mortar. The pebbles 
attract the damp of the apples* The mortar draws 
the. air from the jar, and leaves the apples free from 
its pressure, which, together with the principle of 
putrefaction which the air contains, are the causes of 
decay. Apples, kept thus, have been found quite- 
sounds fair, and juicy, in July* 

364. Presei-vaiion of Succulent Plants.. 

Green succulent plants are better preserved after 
a momentary immersion in botling water, than others 
wise. This practice has been successfully used in 
the preservation if cabbage, and other plants, dried 
for keeping ; it destroys the vegetable life at once, 
and in a great measure prevents that decay which 
otherwise attends them. 

365* A Method of preserving Fndt fresh all tkt 

Year. 

Take of saltpetre one pound, of bol^-armenie 
two pounds^ of common sand, well freed from ito 



900 DOMESTIC ECONOMT. 

earthy parts, four pounds, aod mix altogether. After 
this, let the fruit be gathered with the hand before 
it be thoroughly ripe, each fruit being handled only 
by the stalk ; lay them regularly, and in order, in a 
large wide-mouthed glass vessel ; then cover the top 
of the glass with an oiled paper, and carrying it in- 
to a dry place, set it in a box filled all round, to a- 
bout four inches thickness, with the aforesaid prepa- 
rations, so that no part of the glass vessel shall ap- 
pear, being in a manner buried in the prepared ni' 
tre : and at the end of a year such fruits may be tak* 
en out, as beautiful as when they were first put in.- 

366. To preserve Hazel Mits in great Perfeclionfor^ 

many Months. 

Hazel nuts may be kept a long time in full kernel" 
by burying them in earthen pots, well closed, a foot 
or two in the ground.. They keep best in gravelly, 
or sandy places. 

367. To manage Ripe Fruit for a Desert, 

Take some fruit- baskets of open work, cover them ^ 
with large leaves, and at seven o'clock in the morn- 
ing go out and gather the fruit. When you have care-^ 
fully chosen what is ripe, and laid it handsomely in 
the basket, let it be placed in a cool, but not damp 
room, till it is wanted; When the ripest are gather'i- 
ed, the rest are to be preserved; and with .respect: 
to birds, some lime twigs and trap cages should be - 
placed, and lines of feathers hung about the place*. 

368. To preserve Aromatic andmher Herbs. 

The boxes and drawers in which vegetable mat- 
ters are kept, should not impart to them any smell or 
taste ; and more certainly to avoid this, they should 
be lined with paper. Such as are volatile, of a deli'* 
cate texture, or subject to suffer from insects, mu&t be 
kept in well covered glasses. Fruits and oily seeds^ 
which are apt to become raocki} must b€ kept ia a 



\ 



s 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY* ^t 

cool and dry, bat by no means in a warm or moist 
place. 

369, Topresei've Grapes^till Winter. 

About September, when grapes are nearly ripe,, 
procure some bags made either of crape, muslin^ 
ganze or white paper. 

Select some of the best bunches, and, with a pair 
of sharp narrow- pointed scissars, cut off all small un- 
ripe, rotten, mouldy, or imperfect grapes, especially 
those eaten by flies or wasps. 

Inclose each bunch in a bag, and tie the bag fast 
wkh a string, so that no insect can get into it. In 
the middle of a fine day in October, gather them, 
with a^ piece of the shoot to them, and hang them 
up in a dry warm room. 

Dip the end of the shoots in melted rosin or seal- 
ing-wax. EjLamine them frequently, lest they 
should get mouldy or rotten. 

S70. Walnut Ketchup. 

Take half a bushel of green walnuts, before the 
\ shell is formed, and grind them in a crab mill, or 
beat them in a marble mortar ; then squeeze* out 
the juices through a coarse cloth, and wring the 
cloth well to get all the juice out, and to every gal- 
lon of juice put a quart of red wine, a quarter of a 
pound of anchovies, the same of bay salt, one ounce 
of allspice, two of long or black pepper, half an 
ounce of cloves and mace, a little ginger and horse* 
radish, cut in slices ; boil all together till reduced 
to half the quantity ; pour into a pan; when it is 
cold bottle it, cork it tight, and it will be fit to use. 
in three months. If you have any pickle left in the 
jar after your walnuts are used, to every gallon of 
pickle put in two heads of gaVlic, a quart of red 
wine, an ounce each of cloves and mace, long, black, 
and Jamaica pepper, and boil them altogether till. 



102 DOXBSTICT ECONOMT. 

it is reduced to half the quantity, pour it intoa parr, 
and the next day bottle it for use, and cork it tight. 

37 !• To cork and preserve C^derin Bottles* 

Good corks are highly necessary, and if soaked 
before used in scalding water, they will be the more 
pliant and serviceable; and" by laying the bottles- 
so that the liquor may always keep the cork wet and. 
swelled, will much preserve it. 

372. To make excellent Punch* 

One tea-spoonful of Coxwell's acid salt of lemons^ 
a quarter of a pound of sugar, a quart of water near* 
ly.Doiling, halfapintof rum, &nd a quarter of a 
pint of brandy ; a little lemon peel nwy be added,, 
or in place thereof, a few drops of essence of lem^ 
on. 

373. To make a pleasant, sober, and refreshing: 

Brink for the Summer*. 

^i Take one bottle of sherry (but Madeira is pre- 
ferable,) two bottles of cyder, one of perry, and 
one gill of brandy ; and after those ingredients are 
mix«a, take two lemons, pare the rind as thin as 
possible; then« slice the lemons, and put the rind 
and lemons into a cup ;- to these add a little grated 
nutmeg and powdared sugar, to make it palatable ; 
stir them together; then toast a biscuit very brown,, 
and throw it hot* into the liquor. It is generally 
found a pleasant draught at dinner, and produces 
no bad. effects on those who drink it in moderation.. 

374.» To make the German Liquor, Mum* 

Mum is made of various sorts of grain, in the fol- 
lowing proportions : to seven bushels of wheaten 
malt, add one bushel of oatmeal, one bushel of 
ground beans, and a variety of other articles, as 
tfap lops (,<i fir, wild thyme, cue. ; also ten new laid 
c^'gs. These articles ought to be infused into six- 
ty-three gallons of water boiled down to forty-one;. 



DOMESTIC ECONOMr. $03 

d7&i To make ihtcehhrated Eastern Beverage^ call* 

ed Skerbtt* 

This liquor is a species-of negus without the wine. 
It consists of water, lemon or orange juice, and su« 
gar, in which are dissolved jserfumed cakes, made 
of the best Damascus fruit, and containing also an 
infusion of some drops of rose-water-: another kind 
is made of violets, honey, juice of raisins, &c. It is 
well calculated for assuaging thirst, as the acidity is 
agreeably blended with sweetness. It resembles, 
indeed, those fruits which we find so grateful wbea 
one is thirsty. 

376. To make Birch'4ree Wine^ 

The vernal sap of the birch-tree is made into 
-wine. In the beginning of March, while the sap 
is rising, holes must be bored in the body of th« 
tree, and fassets, made of elder, placed in them, 
to- convey away the liquid. If the tree be large it 
maybe tapped in several places at a time, and 
thus, according to the number of trees, the quant i- 
4y of liquid is obtained. The sap is to be boiled 
with sugar, in the proportion of four pounds to a 
gallon, and treated in the same manner as other 
made wines. 

One gi'eat advantage attaching to the birch is, 
-that it will grow on almost ^ny barren ground. 

377. Currant Wine. 

/ Gather your currants on a fine dry day, when the 
/ ffruit is .full ripe, steep them, put them in a large 
j)an, and bruise them with a wooden pestle ; let 
5them stand in a pan or tub twenty-four iiours to fer- 
.ffi^nt, then run it through a hair sieve, and do not 
let your hand touch the liquor 5 to every gallon of 
fthis liquor put two pounds and a half of white su- 
gar, stir it well together, and put it into your ves- 
sel. To every six gallons put in a quart of bran- 
tdy, and let it stand six weeks ^ if it is fine, bottle 



/ 

/ 



204 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

it ; if it is not, draw it off as clear «s you can into 
another vessel, or large bottles, and in a fortnight 
bottle it into smaller bottles. 

37B. Elder Wine. 

Pick the elder-berries when full ripe ; put them 
into a stone jar, and set them in the oven, or a ket- 
tle of boiling water, till the jar is hot through ; theji 
take them out and strain them through a coarse 
cloth, wringing tTie berries, and put the juices into 
a clean kettle ; to every quart of juice put a pound 
of fine Lisbon sugar; let it boil, and skim it well ; 
when it is clear and fine pour it into ajar ; when 
cold cover it close, and keep it till you make raisin 
wine ; and to every gallon X)f wine put half a pint 
of elder syrup. 

379. Grape Wine. 

To every gallon of ripe grapes put a gallon of soft 
water, bruise the grapes, let them stand a weet 
without stirring, and draw the liquor off fine ; to 
every gallon of wine put three pounds of lump su- 
gar ; put it into a vessel, but do not stop it till it 
las done hissing, then stop it close, and in six 
months it will be fit to bottle. 

A better wine, though smaller in quantity, will 
be made by leaving out the water, and diminishing 
the quantity of sugar. Water is only necessary 
where the juice is so scanty or so thick, as in cow- 
slip, balm, or black currant wine, that it could not 
be used without it. Very good wine, after keep- 
ing for twelve months, has been made by adding a 
proper quantity of sugar to grapes which were so 
hard that it was necessary to burst them over the 
fire to get out the juice. 

380. Jin excellent Family Wine 

' May be made of equal parts of red, white, and 
blackcurrants, ripe cherries, and raspberries, wcli 



y 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 205 

braised, aad mixed with soft water, in the propor* 
tion of four pounds of fruit to one gallon of water. 
When strained and pressed, three pounds of mobt 
sugar are to be added to.each gallon. of Hquid. Af- 
ter standing open three days, during which it is to 
be stirred frequently, and scum it as it may require, 
it is to be put into a barrel, and left for a fortnight 
to work, when a ninth part of brandy is to be ad- 
ded, and the whole bunged down ; and in two 
^r three years it will be rich and valuable. 

3S1. To extract Si/rupfrom Indian Conu 

The young spikes, when they are beginning to 
form, possess a very agreeable saccharine taste. 
Ten pounds of them squeezed in a stone mortal*, 
and the juice expressed, after the leaves are strip- 
ped off, will give about four pounds of a milky 
juice, which, when clarified, and evaporated to the 
consistence of a syrup, will be found v^ry agreea- 
ble to the palate^ This vegetable will grow in Eng- 
land from the seed^^ sown in good soil. 

382. Excellent Bitter for the Stomach. 

One ounce of gentian root sliced, one ounce of 
fi-esh rind of lemon, two drachms of cardamom 
seeds bruised, three drachma of Seville orange peel; 
pour a ,piat and. a half of boiling water over the in- 
gredieot$, let . it stand an hour, then decant the 
dear liquor, and take a wine glass full two or. three 
times a day. 

It should be kept closely iGov.ered after, the water 
is put in the iQgrediexits. 

383. To detect Sugar <)fLead in Wines. 

The tincture of orpiment cpnverts wine so iji^ul- 
terated to a black colour. 



^ 



206, t)OME:STIC ECONOMY* 

• » ' ' 

384. ATest for discovering in Wine^ Metals that art 

injurious to the Health* 

The property of liver of sulphur, and of hepatic 
^as, in precipitating lead of a black colour, has 
been long known ; and that property has been made 
use pf to ascertain the goodness of wine, in the 
preparation of .the liquor jprobatoriiis Wurtemher" 
giensis. 

But in trying wines which ,we suspect to be adul- 
terated, that proof does more harm than good ; be- 
cause it> precipitates the iron of the same colour 
with the pernicious lead; by which means, some 
.dealers of respectable characters have been ruined^ 

It was wanting, therefore, to find an agent which 
would discover nothing in wine but what was pre- 
judicial to health* This is accomplished by the 
following test, which precipitates lead and copper 
x>f a black colour, arsenic of an orange colour, &;gi. 
but does not iron, which being innocent, or rather 
salutary, to the human constitution, gets into a great 
number of different sorts of wine by various acci- 
<lentSt. 

Receipt for the Test Liquor, — Mix equal parts of 
iOyster shells, and crude sulphur reduced to a fine 
powder, and put the mixture in a crucible. Heat 
this in a wind furnace, and suddenly raise the heat 
till the crucible is exposed to a white heat for fifteen 
minutes. When^he mass is cool, reduce it to pow- 
der, and keep it in a bottle well corked. 

To make the liquor, put 120 grains of this pow- 
der and 180 grains of cream of tartar into a strong 
bottle full of common water, which lias been boiled 
for an hour, and suffered to cool. Cork the bottle 
immediately, and shake it from time to time. After 
having stood a few. hours, pour off what is clear of 
the liquor into ounce phials, after having previous- 
ly put into each of them twenty drops of spirit of 
£ea salt ; and then stop them well with wax mixed 
with a little turpentine* ^ 



IfOJrtSTlC ECONOtfT. 207 

(Une part of this liquor, mixed with three parts 
of wine adulterated, will discover, by a very sensi- 
6le black precipitate, the smallest quantity of lead, 
copper, &c. but wn'U have no eflect on any iron it 
may contairt. When the precipitation is made, iron 
may be discovered by saturating the wine remain- 
[ng, when poured off, with a litde salt of tartar, 
•when the liquor becomes instantly black. 

Pure wines remain perfectly clear after the addi- 
tion of this liquor. 

385. Svhstit'uie for 9oap^ edsiltf prepared in snmil 
Qiia^itities, hy private Families in the Countrt/. 

Collect, before the time of seeding, thistles, net- 
tles, fern, and such other weeds as usually infest 
the boi-ders of high roads and hedges, and bum 
them in a large heap, gradually, till the whole are 
consumed, and carefully preserve the ashes in a 
dry place, ready to make the ley wanted for the 
purpose of making a substitute for soap. 

The requisite niaterials and utensils should be 
prepared, which are but few in number. They 
cbnsist, 1st, Of a srtiall tub of whi{£ wood, nine 
inches in width, and as many in knight. This tub 
should be perforated near the bottom ; its use is for 
mixing the leys. (Were it made of oak, it would 
colour Ifhe leys.) 2d, A small copper bason, with 
a rou-nd bottom, a foot in diameter, and seven or 
eight inches in depth ; or where this cannot be pro- 
cured, an iron pot, or earthen vessel, that can 
bear the fire, may be used. This vessel is intend* 
ed for boiling the mixture. 3d, For this small 
manufacture are finally required a skimmer, a spa- 
tula of white wood, and t^o earthen pans. 

The materials necessary are, 1, some good ash- 
es ; 2, lime ; and 3, oil, tallow, or kitchen fat. 

Method of preparing the Leys* 
Take three pounds of ashes and Que pound' of 



^08 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

lime. First, moisten the lime with, a smalt quantf- 
xy of water, in order to slake it;: and after it has- 
completely crumbled down, mix it with the ashes, 
and put this mixture into the tub, having previously 
spread a piece of canvas at the bottom ; care* 
fully close the hole at the bottom of the tub; after 
which pour upon the materials a quantity of water 
sufficient to soak it well through, and rise above it 
in the vessel, to the height of about three finger 
breadths. Then stir it well with a stick, and! suf- 
fer it to stand for some hour^ ; then open the hole; 
in order to let the ley run o^, which is collected 
and kept by itself. This is the first ley ; then a- 
gain put fresh water in the tub, stir the ma^riab 
with a stick, let them stand for some hours, and 
then draw off the second ley, which is also kept 
separate ; the third ley is obtained in the same man- 
ner, by pouring fresh water upon the remainder of 
the ashes, which will now have been sufficientljf 
exhausted of its saline particles. 

Take equal quantities of the first ley, and of kitchc 
en fat, tallow, or oil, and mek them together iqi 
your copper bason, over a gentle fire, till they are 
well incorporated, by constantly agitating them 
with your wooden spatula. When the ley and 
grease are well united, you may add more ley of 
the second quality, and digest them for some time 
with a gentle heat, till the mixture is completed, 
t iking care to stir it well all the time^; then pour it 
into your earthen pans to cool and preserve for use. 
A few trials will enable you to make it in a perfect 
manner ;: and a little of this composition «i¥ill be 
found to answer all the purposes of soap for family 
use. The surplus ley of the stronger kinds may 
be preserved for future use,, and the weaker ley wiU 
serve to put upon fresh ashes on a future occasion ; 
or a little of any of these leys will form a useful steep,^ 
with a considerable quantity of warm, water^ for the 



DOMTESTIC ECONOMY. 5^9^ 

dirty plain linen intended to be washed, but will be! 
too strong for printed calicoes or dyed articles* . 

086. To make Jamaica Vegetable Soapm . 

This soap is prepared fronni the great AmeHcari • 
aloe, in the following njanrier :-^The large succu- 
lent leaves being cut, are passed betweeS the rW- 
fers of a mill, with their point forecBost, and the 
juice being conducted into wide, shallow receivers,* 
through a coarse cloth or strainer, lies exposed ta 
a hot sun, till it is reduced to a thick consistence . 
k is then made up into balls, with lye ashes, to pre-^ 
vent it from sticking to the fingers ; after which it- 
may be kept for years,- and serve for use, as well 
as Castile saap, in washing linen ; but it has the 
superior quality of mixing and formi^ a lather with 
salt water as well as fresh. 

Another method of preparing this soap is, by cut- 
ting the leaves in pieceSj pounding them in a large 
wooden mortar, and then expressing the jqice, which 
Is brought afterwards to a consistence^ either by 
the sun or by boiling. One gallon of this juice, 
thus prepared, will yield about one pound, avoidu- • 
poise, of a soft extract. It will answer prepared in . 
either of these ways, provided the juice, before ex- 
posure to the sun or fire, be very carefuHy strained 
from the bruised fibres, and other membrane of the* 
teaves. The extract must never be eom^Komided 
with tallo\*^, or any dther unctuous materials, foi* 
such meixtures d^stro^ its eflfect. 

Th^ leaves are used for scouring pewter arrd^ 
o^her kitchen utensils, and al^o for floors, 

SB7r' Tif make Lady t)erhy'^s Soap* 

( Two ounces of bitter almonds blaacbed, oiife, 

/Iwmce and a quarter of tinctiire of benjamin, one, 

pound of good plain whit^ sCriirp, and one piece of' 

eaoi{»faai tfa^ si^ of a walnut* TbealiMii^aj^di 



SlQi PjDVESTic economy. 

cSimphor are to be. beaten in a mortar until they are 
completely mixed ; then work up with them the 
tincture of benjamin. The mixture being perfectly 
made, work the soap into it in the same manner. 
If the smell is too powerful of the camphor and tinc- 
ture of benjamin, melt the soap by the fire^ and the 
perfume will go off. This soap has been tried by 
many persons of distinction, is excellent in its quali- 
ties for cleansing the skin, and will be found great- 
ly to assist the complexion, the ingredients being 
perfectly safe, and free from those, pernicious prop- 
erties that are mostly incor^iorated with other soap*. 

388. To make British Herb Tea. 

Take of hawthorn leaves, dried, two parts, sage 
und bakn one part ; mix these well together, and 
they will mak« an excellent and pleasant sanative, 
tea, particularly wholesome to nervous people. 

3S9. British ShAstitute for Foreign Tea. 

Betony, if gathered when just going to flower, 
has the taste of tea, and all the good qualities of it, 
without the bad ones, and moreover, it cures in- 
veterate head-aches., 

390. Moth&ri 

Make an infusion of ground ivy, which is very a^^ 
greeable in flavour, especially if you add to it a 
drop or two of lemon juice. It is reported by ma- 
ny, that the habitual use of this herb will cure the 
most obstinate consumption. It is certainly a good< 
pectoral, and when green is fragrant; if mixed with 
a few flowers of lavender, it makes a most agreea- 
ble liquor for summer use ; and, if gathered at a. 
proper tifae, has an agreeable taste to many, but 
wholesome to all, even when dry. 

39 k Another. 

SdbDf. QC lemoabalm alone, or with sage, is michi 



DOMESTIC ECONOUri SI I 

recommended, with a few flowers of lavender; it 
has a most delicious flavour and taste, but is most 
agreeable whea^reen.-. 

392* , The Virtues of Sage. . 

This valuable herb was held in such high esteem . 
among the ancients, that they have left us a Latin 
verse,, which signifies,,^ 
" Why' should, a gaan dfe whilst he has sage in his garden ?■ * •^ 

It is reckoned admirable as .acordral, and to 
sweeten and cleanse the blood* . It, is good in ner* 
vous cases^ and is giveji in fevers, with a view to . 

f promote perspiration. With the addition of a littla 
emon juice, it. is very grateful and cooling ; some^ 
choose to take it dry, alleging that the surface of 
the leaves of green sage abound with animalcules, 
which are very, visible through a microscope, and 
so there are in many articles of common food; but 
we may be, assured, even if this is the case, that as 
they are nourished with the sage, they are of not 
harm, and, at all events,, a littlehot water will desr. ■ 
troy them.^„ 

393. To prevent excessive Thirst incases of Eifner^^ 

gency at Sea^ in the Summer Time* 

When thirst is excessive, as is often the case in» 
summer time duringjong voyagesj avoid, ifpo$sihhy. 
even in times of the grefitest necessity^ the drinking 
of salt water to .allay the thirst, but rather keep- 
thinly clad, and frequently dip in the sea, which, 
will appease both hunger and thirst for a^long time,, 
and pr.event the disagreeable sensation of s>vallow-. 
ing salt water* 

394. To preserve Eggs sound for the space of Twa- 

Yefirs. 

For the following process, for keeping and pre- 
'sKuring eggs perfectly sound, a patent was granted^ 



If 2 WMBBTic Ecommr* 

m February, 1791, to Mr. Jayne, of Sheffield^ 
Yorkshire: 

Put into a tub or vessel one bushel, Winchester 
measure, of quicklime, thirty-two ounces of salt, 
eight ounces of cream of tartar, and mix the same 
together with as much water as will reduce the com- 
' position, or mixture, to that consistence, that it 
will cause an egg put into it to swim with its tdp just 
above the liquid : then put, and keep the eggs 
therein, which will preserve them perfectly sound 
for the space pf two years at the least; 

This method is not the worse for being simple^ 
and the still simpler one of merely keeping eggs in 
•salt, is known by many good housewives to pre- 
serve eggs quite sound for a considerable time. 

39*5. Manner of preserving Eggs perfectly fre^h^ for 

Iwelve MonUis.. 

Having provided small casks, like oyster barrels, . 
fill them with fresh, laid eggs; then pour into each 
cask, the bead of which is supposed to have been 
first taken out, as much cold thick lime-water as* 
will fill up all the void spaces between the eggs, and 
likewise completely cov^r them. The thicker the 
lime-water is the better, provided it will fill up all. 
the interstices, and be liquid at the t®p of the cask ; 
this done, lay on the head of the Cask lightly. No 
farther care is necessary, than merely to prevent 
the lime from growing too hard, by adding, occa- 
sionally, a little common- water on the surface, 
should it seem so disposed, and keeping the casks 
from heat and frost. The eggs, when taken Out for 
use, are to be washed from the adhering lime with' ; 
alittl^ cM water, when they will have both die af^* 
pearance and qualities of fresh laid eggs, the lime. 
* preserving them froia shrinking or putridity ».. 



i? 



■^ 



OOHESTIC ECON'OMV. 21 



e>. 



396. Manner of preserving Eggs perfectly/ fresh^ for 

Twelve Months* 

The most simple and easy mode of preserving 
eggs is to rub the outside of ibe shell as soon as 
gathered from the nest, with a little butter, or any 
other grease that is n6t fetid. By filling up the 
pores of the shell, the evaporation of the liquid part 
of the egg is prevented ; and either by that means^ 
or by excluding the external air, which Fourcroy 
supposes destroys the milkiness which most people 
are fond of in new-laid eggs, that milkiness will be 
preserved for months, as perfect as when the egg, 
was taken from the nest*. 

397« Cream preserved ihrong Voyages*., 

Mix with a quantity of fresh rich cream? h'aff itis -. 
weight of white sugar in powder ; stir tfie whole- 
well together, and preserve it in boulea^well cdrk»< 
ed. In this state it is ready to mix» with tea or co& 
fee, and has continued in ^od; coDdition during a> 
voyage to America^ 

398. Substitute for HUman Milk^ vshere^ from antf^ 
Circutnstancey it cannot be procured for Children. 

In a quart of water boil two ounces of hartshorn 
shavings over a gentle fire, till the whole is reduced 
to a pint ; mix this with twke its quantity of cow's 
milk, and the addition <^a little sugar* This forma 
for children a proper aliment, approaching nearly 
to the nature of human milk. 

399« To make Old Man^s Mtk : ct nt^icious and 

pleasant Beverage. 

Beat up the yolk of an egg in a bowl or bason,, 
and then mix with it some cream or milk, and a lit- 
tle sugar, according to the quantity wanted, and let 
them be thoroughly incorporated. A glass of spirits, 
^r more, is to he then poured gradually into the mix- 



214 DOSTESTIC ECONOMY. 

lure, so as to prevent the milk or cream from curd- 
ling. This mixture will be found useful to tJ'avellers 
who are obliged to commence their journey eaply,- 
particularly if the weather be cold and damp. 

400. To make artificial Asses^ Milk^ 

Two ounces of pearl barley, two ounces of harts- 
horn shavings, three ounces of Eringo root candied, 
nine garden snails ; boil these in six quarts of spring 
water till it comes to three; put two spoonfuls of 
cow's milk into half a pint of the above, and drink 
it lukewarm about half an hour before you rise in. 
the morning. 

N. B. You may leave out the snails if you do not 
like them, but it is. best to use them- 

401. To prevent disagreeable Smelh frmn Priviesy 

Jfight Chairs^ <$/«. 

Milk of lime (water in which lime has been slack- 
ed, and which is whitened by the fine particles of 
that substance) must be mixed with a ley of ashes, 
or soapy water that has been used in washing, thett 
thrown fnto the sink of the privy, it will destroy the 
offensive smell. By these means, for the Vakie of a 
few pence, any collection of filth whatever may be 
neutralised.. 

For the night-chair of sick persons, put within 
the vessel half a pound of quicklime, half an ounce 
of f>owdered sal-ammoniac, and water one pint : 
this will prevent any disagreeable odour. 

Remark, — Quicklime, or even lime ju^t slacked, 
answers the purpose without any addition. It is th« 
only thing used in camps, particularly in hot coun- 
tri( :, to keep the ditches from, creating contagion. 

402. To free Molass'es from their sharp Tdste^ and 
to rendep them fit tabe used instead of Sugar. 

Take twenty-four pounds of molasses, twenty- 
ibur pounds of water, and six pounds of cbarcoaH. 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY. ^15 

coarsely pulverised ; mix them in a kettle, and boil 
the whole over a slow wood fire. When the mixture 
has boiled half an hour, pour it into a flat vessel, ia 
order that the charcoal may subside to the bottom ; 
then pour off the liquid, and place it over the fire 
once more, that the superfluous water may evapo- 
rate, and the molasses brought to their former con- 
sistence. Twenty-four pounds of molasses will pro- 
duce twenty-four pounds of syrup. 

This method has been employed on a large 
scale, with the happiest effects ; the molasses be- 
come sensibly milder, and can be employed in ma- 
ny articles of food; though in dishes, where milk is 
used, or for. cordials mixed with spices, sugar is to 
be preferred. 

403. To destroy Bugs. 

y^ Take of the highest rectified spirits of wine, (viz. 
lamp spirits) that will burn all away dry, and leave 
not the least moisture behind, half a pint ; new dis- 
tilled oil, or spirits, of turpentine, half a pint; mix 
them together, and break into it, m small bits, half 
an ounce of camphor, which -will dissolve it in a few 
minutes; shake them well together, and with a 
sponge, or a brush, dipt in some of it, wet very well 
the bed or furniture wherein these vermin harbour 
and breed, and it will infallibly kill and destroy 
both them and their nits, although they swam 
ever so much. But then the bed or furniture must 
be well and thoroughly wet with it, (the dust upon 
tthem being first brushed and shook off) by which 
means it will neither stain, soil, or in the least hurt 
-the finest silk or damask bed that is. The qrHntity 
here ordered of tliis curious neat white mixture, 
which costs about a shilling, will rid any ono bed 
whatever, though it swarms with bugs. Do but 
touch a live bug with a drop of it, and you will find 
4t die immediately ; if any should happen to ap- 



21G DOaiESTIC ECONOMY. 

pear, after once using, it will only be for want of 
well wetting the lacing, &c. of the bed, or the fold- 
ings of the lininpjs or curtains, near the rings, or the 
joints, or holes in and about the bed or head-board 
wherein the bugs or nks ncstleand breed,' and then 
their being wen wet altogether again, with more of 
the same mixture, which dries in as^ fa«t as you use 
it, poyring some of it into the joints or .holes where 
the isponge or brush cannot reach, will never fail 
^ibsolutely to destroy them alL "Some beds, that 
have much wood work, can 4iardly be thoroughly 
cleaned without first being tifl^en down; but others 
that can be drawn out, or that you can get well be-, 
iind to be done as it should be, may. 

JVb/c.—^TJhce smell .this mixture occasions will be 
gone in two or three days, which is yet very whole- 
some, and to many people agreeaole. You mu^ 
tetoemb^r always to shake the liquor together very 
well whenever you use it, which must be in the day* 
time, not by candlelight, lest the subtlety of the 
mixture shoulcl catch the fiame as you are using i% 
:aad occasion damage* 

404. Another^ 

The risk offcugs in a large city is inevitable ; the 
clothes-box of servants,'the going to a public-place 
or in a public-carriage, or the insect being blowa 
against the apparel while walking the streets, may 
introduce it into the house. Buttp cleanly people, 
ivhose beds a(re examined, and the join^« oiled with 
pure sweet oil three or four times a ye»r, they can* 
liot become troublesome:; except what no persoa 
can be secure against, they should succeed in the 
occupation of a house, a filthy, though perhaps a 
very fine predecessor, who has permitted the ani- 
mal to entrench itself in the walls and the ceiling. 

In such a situation the chimney and the windows 
«rere pasted up air-tight, aiid after a mixture of pow- 



DOMESTIC ECOKOMT^ SIT 

det of brimstone an(l sah-petre, (as used by the 
makers of vitriolic acid) was set fire to with.prppec 
precaution^ in an earthen pan and sand, the doorS 
were shut, and the joints pasted up. The remedy, 
and in such a case it was thought proper to fumi- 
gate all the rooms, was effectual. Coloured hang*' 
ings, &c. which the gas might hurt, were removed 
to the bedding, and to wood it does no injury. 

There is however some difficulty in forming such 
a quantity of vitriolic acid gas, which is heavy and 
not very expansible, as completely to penetrate the 
crevices of the room in which the insects harbour. 
As the oxymuriatic gas is at least as strong a poi- 
son to animals as the vitriolic, there is no reason to 
anticipate that it is not equally so to the bug, and 
it is mi^ch more easily applied and more expansible. 
It is likely -to answer, but there has been no similat 
opportunity of trying it. Coloured hangings should 
be removed, as though that gas will not affect com- 
pletely oxidated metallic dyes, it will "bleach or 
whiten the vegetable colours. After some hours' fu- 
migation, the doors and windows should be thrown 
open, without breathing, or as little as possible, the 
air of the rooms. The remaining gas will then be 
dissipated naore quick^ than the vitriolic. 

405. ''Economy in Fuel. 

A saving of nearly one-third of the coal consum- 
-ed in London may be made by the following easy 
means : — Let the coal ashes, which are usually 
thrown into the dust bin, be preserved in a corner 
of the coal hole, and make your sen^ants to add to 
them from your coal heap, an equal part of the 
small coal or slack, which is too small to be retain- 
ed in the grate, and pour a small quantity of water 
upon the mixture. When you -make up your firo, 
place a few round coals in front and throw some of 
this mixture behind ; it saves the trouble of sifting 

9r 



^IZ DC>MEST1C ECONOMir* 

jpour .ashes, gives a warm and pleasant fire, and m 
very small part only will remain unbumt» 

406. Another Method. 

In managing your fires during the day, first lay 
on a shovel-full of the dust and ashes from under the 
grate, then a few coals, more ashes, and afterwards 
a few QK>re coals, and thus proceed till your grate is 

?roperlv filled, placing a few roiind coals in front* 
/ou will €nd that ^e asl»es retain the heat better 
tiian coals alone ; you will have less smoke, a plea- 
sant fire, and a very little waste Ie£t at night* 

407. Economy m Tinder. 

The very high price of paper, at present, renders 
tKe saving of even the smallest quantity of linen or 
cotton rags of consequence, as they sell very dear; 
trifling as it may be thought, yet it will be found 
that a considerable quantity of rags riiay be saved 
in p family, by using as tinder for lighting matches the 
contents of the common snuffers collected in th6 
course of the evening. 

^^4 Plate Powder. 

In most of the articles sold as plate powders, under 
a variety of names, there is an injurious mixture of 
quicksilver, which is said sometimes so far to penc* 
trate and render silver brittle, that it will even break 
with a fall. Whitening, properly purified from sand, 
applied wet, and rubbed till dry, is one of the easi- 
est, safest, and certainly the cheapest of all plate 
powders ; jewellers and silversmiths, for small arti- 
cles, seldom use anv thing else. If, however, the 
plate be boiled a little in water, with an ounce of 
calcined hartshorn in powder to about three pints of 
water, then drained over the vessel in which it waa 
boiled, and afterwards dried by the fire, while some 
soft linen rags are boiled in the liquid till they have 
wholly imbibed it^ these rags will^ when dry, not 



JMfMESTKS ECOIfOMT* il^ 

only assist to clean the plate, which must afterwards 
be rubbed bright with leather, but also serve admi- 
rably for cleaning brass locks, finger plates, &c» 
409. Usefulness of CliuerSf or Goose Grmtm 

Young geese are very fond of the branches of 
this plant ; the seeds fnay be used instead of cofiee* 
The expressed juice of the steins aodieaves, takca 
to the amount of four ounces night dud BK>rniog, i» 
very efficacious in removing many of those cutane- 
ous eruptions, which are called, though improperly,! 
scorbutic: but it must be continued, for several 
weeks. 

410.. Important Uses ofihe Leaves of the Vine. 

From experiments made by Sir James Hall, it 
has be^n found that the leaves of the vine, dried in- 
the shade,, make an excellent ?ind extremely whole- 
some tea, though differing in taste and flavour front 
that commonly used« Besides, also being admirably 
calculated for making, vinegar, the prunipgs of thc^ 
vine, on being bruised and pui into a vat or mash-^ 
ing tub, and boiling water poured on them, in the 
same way as is done with malt, will produce a liquor 
#f a fine vinous quality; which, being feraiented,^ 
forms a substitute for beer ; and which, on being 
distilled, produce a good spirit of the nature of 
Jlrandy. 

411. Valuable Properties of Cherry 'Tree Gum^. 

The gum that exudes from the trunk and branches- 
of the cherry-tree is equal to gum-arabic. Hassel- 

auist relates that, during a siege, more than an hurt- 
red men were kept alive for two months nearly^ 
without any other sustenance than a little of this 
gum taken into the mouth, sometimes, and suffered, 
gradually to dissolve. 

412. Valuable Properties of the HeRantkus Jlnnum^. 

or Sun Flower. 

The seeds afford a good eatable oil ; tiie stail^s^ 



229 BOtoESTic KcONOtnr. 

potash, when burned like those of Turkish corik 
From the large quantity of pith in.the stalks, paper 

stay be made. 

The .young stalks are eaten at Frankfort, on the 
Maine as greena; and the old are used as fire wood. 
413. Remedies against Flem^ 

Fumigation with brimstone, or the fresh leaves of 
penny-royal sewed in a bag, and laid in the bed, will 
nave the desired effect. 

214. Fly Water. 

Most of the fly waters, and other preparations 
commonly &old for the destruction, of flies, are vari- 
ously disguised poisons, dangerous and even fatal 
to the human species ; such as solutions of mercu- 
ry, arsenic, &c. mi^ed with honey or syrup. The- 
following preparatior^ however, without endanger- 
ing the lives of children, or other incautious per- 
sons, is not less fatal to flies than even a solution of 
arsenic. Dissolve two drachms of the extract of 
quasia, in half a pint of boiling water; and adding 
a little sugar, or syrup, pour the mixture on plat6s. 
To this enticing food the flies are extremely partial, 
and it never fails to destroy them. * 

415. 7b* make a u^hohsornfi Food of Cashew Kats. 

Cashew nuts may be prepared as food, by blanch- 
ing them with hot water to wash oS*the caustic oil, 
or roasting them in a pot like coffee, but care must 
be taken to avoid the smoke, which is very acrid. 
They may also be prepared by sticking them on a 
fork, and burning them at a candle. The oil of the 
shell is abundant, and thoroughly roasts the kernel 
within. The kernel of the fresh cashew nut is made 
into an emulsion, like almonds, and universally us- 
ed in the West Indies. 

4J6* Economy in Candles^ 

In such candlesticks as are not made to slide, the 
candles are frequently permitted to bura in die- 



s(>ck<;t to great waste, and to the injury of the 
candlestick ; this may be prevented by taking out 
early the short piece of candle, placing it betwixt 
three common pins stuck in an old corK| and put* 
ting the cork in the candlestick*. 

Or rather give a penny for that ingenious utensil, 
asave-alL ll is^ least as cheap^ and prevents the 
risk of setting fire to the Jiouse. * 

417.. Curious ► smaltCdkes of Incense for perfuming 

Apariffunts.^ 

~>/Take equal quantities of lignum rhodium, and 
atiise, in powder, with a little powder of . dried Sc | 
ville orange peel, and .the same of gum benzoin, or 
beniamifi, andLbeatall together in a mairble mortar. 
Then, addihglome gum Sagon, or tragacanth, dis- 
solved in rose-water, put in a little civet; beat the 
whole again together, make u^y this mixture inta 
small cakes, and place them on paper to dry* One 
of these cakes being burnt in the largest apartment^ 
will diffuise a most agreeable odour through thee 
whole rooDK « <^ 

41 8* To prevent the disagreeable Smell arising from 

House Drains* 

As the diffusion of this noxious matter, within 
our dwellings, tends to produce disease and mortal- 
ity, it cannot be toa generally known that a cheap 
and simple apparatus . has been contrived for carry- 
ing off the waste water. Sic. of sinks, and which at 
ihq same time prevents the possibility of any air re- 
turning back into the house from thence, orirom 
any drain which may be connected with it. It is 
known by the name ot2L stink trapy and inay be had. 
at any of the ironmongers. . 

419. Polished. Tea Urns preferxible to varnished. 

ones, 

Ebli&hed tea urns may be kept boiling with, a 

X 2. 



522 DOMESTIC ECONOJm 

much less expense of spirrts of wine than such &^ 
are varnished; and the cleaner and brighter the 
dishes, and covers for dishes, which are used for 
■bringing victuals to table, and for keeping it hdt, 
the more effectual will they answer that purpose. 

420* Management of Razef Straps. 

Most razor straps«re spoiledl^ being left too dry ; 
d drop or two of sweet oil, frequently ^dded to the 
5trap, would remedy this : and, after using the strap,, 
passing the razor on the insid<e of a warm band,, 
gives tbe smoothest and finest* edge ; putting the 
razor in warm wateit makes it cut very keen, and 
perhaps nothing makes a better razor strap than 
crocus martis^ with a tittle sweet oil «tt^bed- welloa 
leather witha, glass bot<fe» 

42 1 • Essence of Soap for Shaving or vmshing Bhndhi^ 

Take a pound and a'^half of.fihe white soap in 
thin slices, and add thei^to two ounee5< of salt of 
tartar ;.- m\T^ them well together, and put this mixture^ 
into one quart of spirits of wine, in a bottle whichr* 
will hold double the quantity of the ingredients ; tie 
a bladder over the mouth of the bottle^and prick a 

Jin through the bladder; set it to- digest in a gentle^ 
eat, and sh9Ji;e the contents from time to time, tak» 
ing care to take out the pin at such times to allow 
passage for the air from within.; when the soap i^ 
dissolved, filter the liquor through paper, to free it? 
from impurities ; then scent it with a little bergamott 
or essence of lemon. It will have the appearance oC 
fine oil, and a smell quantity will lather with water 
like soap, andf is mucli superior in use for washing 
Or shavings 

422.. Compmition for Shavings ^ without th^ Use of 

Sazor^ Soupi or Water. 

Mix one pint and a half of clear lime water, two 
tUDces<rfguist-arabiC} half aiLOonce of isinglass^ ait: 



DOfiSSTIO ECONOMV. SSt5 

dgliffi of an ounce of cochineal, a quarter of an 
ounce of turmeric-root {rmdc into powder), atv 
eighth of an ounce of salt of tartar, and an eighth 
efan ounce of cream of tartar, together; boil them 
for one hour at least (stirring up the mixture during 
the whole time of boiling,. and be careful not to let 
k boil over) clear it through a sieve; then add two^ 
pounds and a half of pumice^^tone, finely pulveriz* 
ed; mix the whole together, with the hands, into- 
one cake, by the assistance of the white of two eggs, . 
well stirred up., Then.divide the cake, so made, in- 
to twelve smaller cakes ;, dry them in the open aiir 
for three days ; put them into an oven of moderate 
heat, for twenty-four hours, when they will be com- 
pletely dry and fit for use. Apply them with a 
gentle friction to the beainJ, and they will produce-- 
the complete, effect of shaving, by rubbing off the 
hair. 

4-23. To prevent Accidents from having a Poker m^ 

the Fire* 

The following invention is equally simple and 
secure. Immediately above that square part of the 
poker, by blacksmiths called the bit, let a small 
cross of iron, about an inch and a half each-way, be 
welded in. 

The good consequences of this simple contrivance 
will be — 1st.. If the poker, by the fire giving^ way,, 
should slip out, it will probably catch on the edge 
of the fender. 

2d. If it should not, it cannot injure the hearth or 
carpet, as the hot part of the poker will be borne 
up some inches. 

And 3d. The poker cannot be run into the fire 
farther than the bit,, which,, in regard to a polished 
poker, is also of some consequence. 

4fi4» Ekonomical maife cf cutting Ciml^imer^ 

IiLatead'of cuuiag o£the whole bead of a caoli* 



22t DOtfESTIC ECONOXf r 

floiter, leave a part on, of the si«e of a gooseberry, 
and all the leaves: sefond, and even third heads 
will be formed, and thus they may be eaten for two 
or three months ; when, at present, by cutting the 
head completely off, the bed of cauliflowers are gone 
in two or three weeks. They should be planted in 
good moist ground, and treatedin the same manner- 
as celery. 

425. Substitute for J\rKlk or Cream* 

Where cream or milk cannot be got, it is an ex-- 
cellent substitute to beat up the whole of a fresh' 
egg, in a bason, and then gradually to pour boiling 
tea over it, to prevent its curdling. It is difficult,, 
from the taste, to distinguish the composition from 
tea and rich cream. This might be of great use at 
sea, as eggs may be preserved fresh in various-, 
ways. . '^ ' 

426. .^^cccssary Hints to those rofib use Copper Vesr ~ 

sels for culinary Purposes, . 

In domestic ecQnomy the. necessity of keeping; 
topper vessels always clean is generally acknow- 
ledged; but it may not perhaps be so generally 
known, that fat and oily substances, and vegetable 
acids, do not attack copper while hot : and, there- 
fore, that if.no liquid be ever suffered to grow cold 
in copper vessels, those utensils may be used for 
every culinary purpose, with perfect safety. 

X)r. Johnstone relates the shocking €ase of three 
men who died, after excruciating sufferings,, in. con- 
sequence of eating some victuals prepared in an un- 
clean copper on board the Cyclops frigate. — Thirty 
ty-three other men became ill, and were put upon 
the sick-list, at the same time, and from the same 
cause. 

Dr. Percival gives an account of a young lady 
who amused herself, while her. hair was dressings . 
,vitli eating samphire pickle impregnated with cog^ 



JDOMESTIC ECONOMY. 22a: 

V 

per. She soon complained of pain in the stomach,* 
and in five days vomiting commenced, which was 
incessant for two days. After this her stomach be- 
came prodigiously distended ; and in nine days 
after eating the pickle, death relieved her from her 
sufferings* 

427. To prevent Lamps from being pernicious to 
Asthmatic Persons^ or others^ liable to Complaints 
of the Chest. 

-T^X<et a sponge, three or four inches in diameter,, be. 
'moistened with pure water,, and in that state be sus- 
pended by a string or wire, exactly over the flame' 
ef the lamp, at the distance of a lew inches ; this 
substance will absorb all the smoke emitted during* 
the evening, or night, after which it.should be rins- 
ed in warm water, by which means it will be again, 
rendered fit for use. 

428. To make economical Wicks for Lamps. 

When using a lamp wilh a flat wick, if you take 
a piece of clean cotton stocking, it will answer the 
purpose as well as the cotton wicks which are sold, 
in the shops. 

429. UsefiU Properties of Celandine* 

^y The juice of this plant cures tetters and' ring- 
' ">Korms5 destroys warts, and cures the itch. 

430. Economical Use of Roots of Trees* 

In many parts of England and Scotland, trees are. 
cut down above the surface of the earth, leaving, 
the stumps an incumhi'ancc to the ground, when 
they might be rooted up to advantage, if used in the 
following manner: — -Dig out these butt, ends, or 
stumps, and with a common augre, bore a hole in 
their centre, about si.\ or nine inches deep, into 
which put a charge of powder of three or four inch- 
es ; then fill up the space above it by an iron scrcv 



1 



220 DOMESTKr ECONOJtIF. 

of the same dimensions, and put a quicft match, erf 
about eighteen inches long^ into the hollow of the 
screw,^ and set fire thereto, and retire ; the explosion 
will split the log or stump into various pieces, in one 
of which the screw will be found retained. Mueb 
valuable fuel may be thus obtained from the knotty 
roots ofoaks, eim3,.yew trees, &c. 

The screws, and other implements for this pur- 
pose, may be seen at the Society of Arts, in the A- 
uelphi, or may be purchaised from Mr. Enight, iro*!- 
monger, Foster-Lane, Cbeapside. 

431 • Application of the Roots afFif'Trces or Pine$m 

The roots or butt-ends of fir-trees, split in the 
manner above-mentioned, will yield a considerable 
quantity of pitch and tar, by the foUowing^ manage^ 
ment : — -Make a hole in the earth, a few inches deep^ 
on the side of a hill, in which lay a coat of clay, and 
therein pile the fir roots, split as above, and cut to- 
ihe length, of not more tbaa tlicee feet,.upon bars of 
iron laid above the hole, and the logs piled up at 
the distance of half an inch from each other, and 
each row laid cross-way of the other, to any height 
required, fire is to be set to the top of the pile, and 
as it consumes the wood, the pitch, tar, and rosin,, 
contained in the wood, melt and run from it into the 
hole belaw, and from thence by a small'trench inta 
a large hole, made several feet deep in the ground, 
to receive these products* 

m 

432. Useful Properties of Red Spurge^ 

Warts or corns anointed with the juice of thfs 
plant, presently disappear, A drop of it put into the^ 
hollow of a decayed and aching toothy destroys the 
nerve, and consequently removes the pain. Some 
people rub it behind the ears that it may hlistcc,, 
and by that means give relief. 



»RAWIN0. 2^7 

433* Paste or Food for Singing Birds, superior io the 
German P<iste in common Use, 

Well mix, or knead together, three pounds of split 
peas, ground or beat to flour, one pound and a baif 
each of fine crumbs of bread and coarse so^ar, the 
fresh yolks of six raw eggs, and six ounces oi unsalt- 
ed butter. Put about a third part of the mixture, at 
a time, in a frying pan, over a gentle fire, and contin- 
ually stir it till it be a little browned, but by no means 
burnt. When the other two parts are thus done, and 
all are become cold, add to the entire quantity six 
ounces of maw seed, with six pounds of good bruised 
hemp seeds separated from the husks. Mix the 
whole well together, and it will be found an excel- 
lent food for thrushes, red robins, larks, linnets, ca- 
nary birds, finches of the different sorts, and most 
other singing birds, admirably preserving them iu 
«0ng and feather. 



CHAPTER XVIL 
^J>RAWING. 



V 



434. To make Transpartrii Paper for Drawing. 

Tracing paper is readily made by taking a sheet 
of very tWn silk, or other paper, and rubbing it over 
^ntly with some soft substance, filled with a mix- 
ture of equal parts of drying oil, and oil of turpen* 
tine, which, being suspended and dried, will be 
fit for use in a few days ; or it may be had at any 
of the shops. Lay this transparent naaterial on the 
print or drawing to be transferred, and, with a sharp 
black lead pencil^ trace the outlines exactly as thef 



$28 DRXWINQ. 

eppear through the paper. If more permanent or 
stronger lines are wished, ink mixed with ox-gail 
will be necessary to make it adhere to the oiled sur- 
faice. 

435* To Trace Dramixgs or Prints against the 

Light* 

There are two methods: one to lay the print, 
&c. flatagainsla pane of glass, with thin paper over 
it, when the lines appearing through it are to be fol- 
lowed by the lead : the other is more convenient, 
and consists of a frame inclosing a square of glass, 
supported by legs, on which the paper is laid as 
before, and a candle placed behind the glass. A pen 
and ink may' be used in this manner, but they can- 
not in the K)rmer instance. 

436. Method of using Tracing Paper. . 

Take a piece of the size required, and rub It 
equally over, oa one side, with black lead, reduced 
to a powder, till the surface will not readily soil a 
"finger; then lay a piece of white paper with the 
leaded side of this paper next to it, under the print; 
and securing them firmly together with pins at the 
corners, proceed to take the outlines with a blunt 
.point, and some degree of pressure, which will 
transfer the lead to the clean paper precisely in the 
direction the point passed over the print ; this may 
be corrected with the black lead pencil, and cleans-' 
ed of any soil by the crumbs of stale bread. 

437. To copy Drawings^ ^c. vsith fixed Materials. 

Rub a thin piece of paper thorougbly and equal- 
ly with fresh butter, and after well drying it by a 
fife, cover it with black lead, or with carmine, 
lamp-black, or blue bice, on the other side whicii 
received the butter. When the operation has so far 
succeeded, as that the colour will not adhere to any 
sttbstance passed over it, lay the coloured surface 



\ 



\ 



Jon while paper, the print on it, and trace the sub- 
ject through wilh a point as mentioned in the fore- 
going receipt. 

438. To transfer any Impression with Vermillion. 

/ Mix the colour with linseed oil in a &tate suffi- 
'cicntly fluid to flow from the point of a pen, with 
which let every line of the print be accurately trac- 
ed ; then wet the back of it, and, turning the face 
downwards on clean white dry paper, place the 
other paper on the back^ and gently rub or press it 
tiU it may be supposed the red lines are completely 
transferred to the paper from the print« 

439. Transpareftt Paper. 

Wet some fine paper with a feather on both sides 
"^with a thin layer of rosin, dissolved in spirits of 
wine. It will then serve to put over any thing yoa 
wish to lake off. 

440. Method cf copying a Design. 

Wash the surface of a flat plate of glass with a 
^solution of gum-arabic, in water, to which a smalt 
quantity of vinegar has been added; Or^oumay 
instead thereof, moisten the surface only with white 
of egg : when dry, lay the under side of the glass, 
which has not been moistened, on the design jroa 
want to copy, and with a soft red lead pencil trace the 
whole that you may wish for. Then, having a 
sheet of white paper properly moistened, lay it up- 
on your pencil drawing, and pressing it on the glass ; 
take off the paper before the eg? liquor is re-dis- 
solved, and you will have your oesigd transferred 
upon the paper from the glass.. 

441. To preserve Pencil and Chalk Drawings^ 

1st. Get a pan, or tub, sufficiently spacious to 
admit the drawing horizontally ; fill it with clean 
water, and run the drawing through in that direc- 



tion ; then lay it on something flat to dry* Th» 
ivill take off the loose lead. 

2dly. Fill the same vessel a second time, with 
rather more than one-third new milk, and the re- 
maining part clean water, through which run the^ 
drawing again horizontally, and leave it to dry as 
fcefore. 

Do not lay the drawing, while wet, on any col- 
<)ured wood, such as mahogany, &c. which will 
•stain the paper in streaks. 

Should milk be scarce, you may mix a litde (in 
the proportions above-mentioned,) in a teacup, and 
venture to run the drawing lightly over with a cam- 
el-hair pencil, the water having already taken off 
the superfluous lead, and, in some degree, fixed 
the other : but be particularly light with the pencil, 
never touching the drawing twice in the same place* 

442. JV[elhod of setting Pencil Drawings. 

A solution o/ alum in water, in which the draw- 
ing isio be dipped (not washed on with a brush, as 
it would smeai7 will answex the purpose extremely 
well. 

^43. Wash for preserving Drawings, made with a 
JSiatk Lead Pencil^ or with Hard Black Chalk* 

A thin wash of isinglass will fix either black lead 
^r hard black chalk, &;c. as to prevent their rubbing 
out ; or the same eflfect may be produced by the 
simple application of skimmed milk. The best 
way of using the latter, is, to lay the drawing flat 
"tipon the surface of the milk ; and then, taking It 
up expeditiously, to hang it by one corner till it 
drains and dries. The milk must be perfectly free 
from cream, or it will grease the paper* 

444. Easy Method of taking off a perfect Copy of a 

Print or Drasoing* 

Take a piece of clear lantern horn; lay itupoa 



the f>rint or picture you wish to take off; then, witb 
a crow-quill dipped in Indian ink^ draw every stroke 
of the outline upon the horn ; when dry, breathe 
upon that side of the horn whereon you made your 
draught, three or f6ur times, and place it directly 
on a damp piece of clean while paper, with the 
drawn side downwards ; then prfessing it hard with 
the palm of your hand, tl^ drawing" will' stick to 
your paper, aud the hoi^Wome off clear.' 

445, To make a Drawing Desk or Frame*- ^ 

Cause a frame to be made of a reasonable size, 
so that a pretty large piece of crown glass may rest 
upon it, supported by a ledge at the bottom part, 
where, by two hinges, it may oe fastened to a draw- 
er of the same dimension, which may be divided 
to serve for pen, ink, and paper, and other smalt 
utensils, or rnstruments for drawing. To the top 
of the frame fix two stays, by which the frame may 
be raised higher or lower, as occasion may require. 

The manner of using the frame is thus : lay the 
print or drawing you uiletix} to copy on the glassy 
and fasten a sheet or piece of fine white paper, with 
f ome wafers or paste, upon it ; if it be in the day- 
time, place the back, after you have raised th^ 
frame to a proper height, against the window, but 
if night, put a lamp behind it, and you will see eve- 
ry stroke of the print or drawing, which, with your 
pen, you may copy very accurately, aud^ finlsb 
according to the manner you think proper; if it be 
a solid piece which you intend to copy, then plaqe 
u behind the desk, and having fastened your paper 
in the frame, put the lamp so as to produce a strong; 
shade on the object you have before you.todraw, . 
and you will plainly see to trace the shape with your 
pen, or black lead pencil; aAer which, shade it IR 
the manner it appears to you without the desk* 



^ » iti^i-^ 



CHAP. XVIIF. 
DROWNIJ^<L 



446. Method of rendering Assistance to Persons m 

Danger oj Drowning. 

Tills desirable object appears attainable by the. 
proper use of a ixAn^s hat and pocket handkerchief^ 
(which being all the apparatus necessary) is to be 
used thus : Spread the handkerchief on the ground, 
dnd place a hat, with the brim downwards, on the 
middle of the handkerchief; and thea tic the hand* 
kerchief round the hat as you would tie up a bun- 
dle, keeping the knots as near the centre of the 
cfowo as may be. Now, by seizing the knots ia 
one hand, and keeping the opening of the hat up- 
wards, a person, without knowing how to swim,, 
tnay, fearlessly, plunge into the water with what 
may he necessary tp save the life of a fellow-crea- 
ture. 

If a person should fall out of a boat, or the boat 
upset by going foul of a cable, &c. or should he fait 
off the qu&ys, or indeed fall into any water from, 
which he could not extricate himself, but must 
wait some little time for assistance^ had he pres* 
ence of mind enough to whip off his hat, and hold it 
"by the brim, nlacing his fingers within-side the 
crown, and hold it so, (top downwards) he would 
be able, by this method, to keep his mouth well a- 
bove water till assistance should reach him. It of- 
ten happens that danger is descried long before 
•we are involved in the peril, and dme enough to 
prepare the above method ; and a courageous per- 
son would, in seven instances out of ten, apply to 
them with success ; and travellers, in fording riv- 
ers at unknown fords, or where shallows are deceit- 



DTEiNcr. 333t 

ful, might make use of tfacs^ methods with advant- 
age. 

447. Method of recovering Persons apparently drovm* 
erf, as recommended by the Humane Society, . 

Let those who first discover an unfortunate ol>ject 
in this situation remove it to sortie house near, place 
it by the fire, and begin by rubbing it with salt, vo- 
latiles, &c. and warm flannels, the head a little de- 
rated ; never attempting giving any thing by the 
mouih till signs of recovery strongly appear, and 
let the person be kept from a,crowd of people a- 
round him. The ideSi that the ston>ach is full of 
lifter, and thus obviates recDvcry, is very errone- 
ous and prejudicial, as it is novv fully and clearly 
established, that the respiration being impeded is 
the sole cause of the suspension of life, arid which 
being restored, the vital functions soon recover 
their tone ^ and men are frequently lost from the 
absurd custom of rolling on casks, lifting the feet 
over the .shoulders, and the head falling on the 
ground. 



CHAPTER XIX. 
DYEING. 



448. To make a- Liquid for staining Bone or Wood 

(f different Colours. 

' Take strong white wine vinegar in a glass ves* 
scl, and put to- it filings of copper,* wiihsome Ro- 
man vitriol, roach- alum, and verdigris, and leave 
ir thus infused for seven days ; then boil it in some 
vessel, and by putting into it bone, ivory, or ^'ood, 
it^will peiieHrate,^ aod give k a greeQ colour^ If any 



/ 



■J*, 



tS4 DniN«. 

other colour k recjuired, as red, blue, or yellow, mt 
Brazil wood, indigo, French berries,, or any other 
such colours, to infuse in the vinegar,, with a little* 
roach alum. 

449. Art of dyeing off siraihihg Leather Gloves yPo^ 
resemble the becvutifut York Tan^ Limerick Dye^. 

These different pleasing hues of yelfow, brown^. 
or tan colour, are readily imparted to leather gloves 
by the following simple process r Steep saffi'on in. 
boiling hot soft water for about twelve hours ; then, 
baving slightly sewed up the tops of the gloves, to 
prevent the dye from staining the i^sides, wet theuL 
over with a sponge or soft brush dipped into the 
liquid. The quantity of safiron, as« well as of wa- 
ter, win of course depend on how much dye may 
be wanted ;; and their relative proportions, on the 
depth of colour required. A common teacup will 
eontaia sufficient in quantity foe a single pair of 
.gloves.. 

450. 7^ stain Wood a fine Black* 

Drop a little oil of vitriol into a small quantity o£r 
water, rub the same on your wood, then hold it to 
the fire untif it becomes a iine blkck, and, wheo- 
polished,, it will be exceedingly beautiiuL 

^51. 7b stain Wood a beautiful Red or Mahogam^ 

Colour^. 

Place a scjuare piecit of plane-tree wood, a line \tk 
thickness, into pounded dragon's blood, from the- 
Canaries, mixed with oil of turpentine, over the 
ire, in a glass vessel, the wood will slowly assume 
the colour, even before the spirit has volatilised*. 
After more tha^ an hour take the vessel from the 
fire, and let it stand the whole night, wiien. th^ 
wood will appear of a mahogany colour, notmere^ 

von the MK&ce^ but sdso ia ue lutecior |iair|s» T|fi^ 



X 



denser fiftires wHI be somewhat less 'colourecT; but 
this, instead of injuring the beauty of the wood, will 
rather add to it. The red dye can be made strong- 
er or weaker, by taking a greater or less quantity of 
dragon?8 blood, and by a greater or less degree of 
digestion and boiling. The wood of the plane-^ 
tree is best for this purpose, because it can be ea* 
&ily sawn and polished; because it has a white col- 
our; is neither too hard nor too soft ; has beautiful 
white spots with veins that cross each other ; and 
because artists,, who make inlaid works, have long 
attempted to colour it by staining. The wood, 
when stained, can very easily be freed from the 
dragon's blood adhering to it, by means of rectified: 
spirits of wine*. The spirit of turpentine makes the: 
wood more compact, and, readers it more suscegti?^ 
ble of a fine polish.. 

452.- To make Nankeen Dye* 

/ Boil equal parts of arnotto and conunon pota$b|. 
)^tn water, till, the whole are dissolved. This wilt 
produce the palt reddish huff so much in use, and', 
sold under the name oi Nankeen Dye. . 

453. To dye Cotton^afine Buff Colovn. 

^ Let the twist or yarn be boiled in pure water, to^* 
cleanse it ; then wring it, run it through a dilute so* 
lutionof iron in the vegetable acid^ which. printers 
call iron liquor \ wring, and run it through lime wa- 
ter, to raise it ;. wring it again,, and run it through 
ia solution of starch and water ; then wring itonce* 
more, and dry, wind, warp, and weave it foruse». 

4^4. Sid)stitute for Galls in Dyeing and also in mah- 

ing Ink^ 

The excrescences on tiie roots of young oaks. 

^ay be used with advantage as a substitute for galls». 

Qak dust has beea used ki tk^s countr]^1t|Stead of- 



/ 



iS6 DYfimo. 

galls, to produce a black dye : so also has a strong" 
decoction of logwood, copperas, and gum arable. 

455» Easi/ Method of Dydng Yellow or Green. 

The plant called weld, or dyer's weed, affords. a 
most beautiful yellow dye for cotton, woolen, mo- 
hair, silk, and linen, and is that which is most com- 
monly used^ by dyers for that purpose,, as it gives 
the brightest dye. Blue cloths dipped in a decoc- 
tion of it become green, The yellow colour 0f tbe^ 
paint, called Dutch pinl&, is got from this plant ; the 
tinging quality resides in the stems and branches, 
and it is cultivatedin sandy soils, because rich soils 
are apt to lessen its value, by making the stalk hol- 
low. 

456. Ta stain Wood greeru 

Dissolve verdigris in vinegar, or crystals of ver- 
digris in water; and, with the hot solution, brush 
over the wood till it be duly stained.. 

457. To sialn Horn to imitate Tortoise SkclL 

The horn to be stained must first be pressed into* 
proper plates or scales, or other flat form.. The 
following mixture must then be used :— 
' Take of quicklime two parts, of litharge one, and 
temper them to the consistence of a soft piste witbi 
soap lye. Put this paste over all the parts of the 
horn, except such a6 are proper to be left transpar- 
ent, in order to the greater resemblance of the tor-* 
toise shelL The horn must then remain thus cov* 
cred with the paste titl it be thoroughly dry : when 
the paste being brushed off, the horn will be found- 
partly opake and partly transparent in the manner, 
of tortoise shell ; and when put over a foil, will be 
scarcely distinguishable from it. It requires softie 
degree of fency a/rc^judgment to dispose of the paste 
in such a manner as to\forra at variety of transpar- 
ent jjufts, of different magnitude and figure, to look 



\ 



like nature* This may be done by mixing whiten- 
ing with some of the paste to weaken its operation 
in particular places, by which spots of a reddish 
brown will be produced ; that if properly inter- 
spersed, especially on the edges of the darx parts, 
will greatly fncrease as well the beauty of the work 
as its similitude to the real tortoise shell. 

458. Substitute for Verdigris^ in*dyeing Black* 

Saturate two pounds of vitriol of copper with a 
strong alkaline salt, (Americah fiptashes, when to 
be procured, are recommended.) The vitriol will 
Biafce about an equal weight of dry ashes. Both 
the vitriol and the ashes are to be previously dis- 
solved apart. When this proportion is mixed, wefl 
stirred, and suffered to stand a few hours, a precipi- 
tate will subside. Upon adding a few drops of the 
solution of ashes, if the mixture be saturated, the 
water on the top of the vessel will remain colour- 
less ; but if not, a blue colour will be produced, 
upon which add more ashes 5 there is no danger irr 
being a little over saturated with ashes. Take care 
to add the solution of ashes to that of vitriol by a 
l.iule at a time, otherwise the effervescence which 
ensues will cause them to overflow the vessel : these 
four pounds of vitriol of copper and ashes will be 
equal to about the same weight of verdigris, and 
should be added to the other liquors of the dye at 
different times, as is usual with verdigris. 

The black, thus dyed, will be perfectly innocent 
to the goods, rather tending to keep them soft than 
corrode them, particularly hats, in which there is 
the greatest consumption of verdigris. 

For those who are constantly using verdigris, it 




dy to mix as they are wanted ; for they do not an* 
fiwer so well if kept long. 



238 DifElUQG* " 

459. Another SuhatitutB for Verdigris* 

Take one part of the very best sal-ammoniac, one 
quarter part of oil of vitriol, one half part of aqua- 
fortis, one quarter part of muriatic acid, and twelve 
ports of coFd spring water, which, when thoroughly 
mixed together, is to be put ino sheets of copper, 
of any size, turned up at the edg^s about half an 
inch all the way round, to prevent the mixture froa*? 
running off. The mixture is then to be stirred well 
lip every two or three hours, until the same is dis- 
covered to be of a green or bluish cast or body. The 
mixture must then remaina few hour>s, uniil it i*- 
settled, and the water at top appears perfectly 
clear, which will happen sooner or later, it depend- 
ing upon the temperature of the atmosphere. The 
water must then be carefully poured off, leaving the 
sediment at the bottom.. It must be then put into 
any vessel of sufficient size, and if it is thoroughly 
prepared, the paint will bear washing in water to 
free it from dirt, &c. after, which washing, the 
lyater must be poured from the paint. The paint 
may then be taken and prepared in lumps, by put- 
ling the same into moulds of any size that may bo 
convenient, observing afterwards to place the same 
in a mild warm room. When it is quite dry, it may. 
be ground into powder with ease, or remain in the 
lumps, as may be convenient ; it is then fit for use. 

Remark. — This preparation is much clearer than 
verdigris made by stratifying copper- plates, or by 
solution with the impure vinegars which ^ay rio^ 
duty. 



^Hl^ 



-nCASfXO £Xr£1liMEKT$* 239 

CHAPTER XX. 
PLEASmO EXPERIMENTS. 



160« To produce Gas Light, on a small Scale* 

Take ^n ordinary tobacco-pipe, and nearly fill 
the bowl with small coals, and stop the mouth of the 
bowl with any suitable luting, as pipe clay, or the 
mixture of sand and common clay, or, as clay is apt 
to shrink, of sand and beer, and place the bowl ia 
a fire between the bars of a grate, so that the pipe 
may stand nearly perpendicular. Jn a few minutes, 
if the luting is good, the gas will begin to escape 
from the orifice of the pipe, when, if a piece of 
lighted paper or candle be applied, it will take fire 
and burn for several minutes with an intense light. 
Whtjn the light goes out, a residum of useful pro^ 
ducts will be found in the bowK 

461. The Phosphoric Pencil 

^ / Is a small bit of phosphorus, put into a quill, and 
kept In a phial, in water; when you writ^ dip 

^our pencil often in the water, to prevent its mking 
fire. 

462. The Fire Bottle. 

y Take as much unslacked lime as will Ke on the 
.point of a small penknife, put it into a short bottle., 
;then put in about half a drachm of phdsphorus, ami 
shake it gently until it takes fire ; then blow gently, 
into the bottle until it has done crackling or friz- 
ing, and it will be fit for use. '^ 

463. To make the Phosphoric Match Botlle. 

f-^l These bottles may be prepcired by mixing on« 



«t^ 



'340 • fvtksmct feXPfiftiMfiifrs* 

?art of flower of sulphur with eight of phosphorus, 
^his requires cauiion, and should afterwards be 
handled with great care, lest any part of the mix- 
ture get under the finger nails, a small portion of 
w^ich might occasion great inconvenience* When 
used to procure alight, a very minute quantity is 
taken out of the bottle on the point of the match, 
and rubbed upon cork or wood) which produces ao 
immediate flame. 

« 

464. To make an Illumhiated or Phosphoric Bottk^ ♦ 
which will preserve its Jjight for several Months* 

By putting a piece of phosphorus, the size of a 
pea, into ^ phial, and adding boiling oil until the 
bottle is a third full, a luminous bottle is formed | 
for, on taking out the cork, to admit atmospheric 
air, the empty space in the phial will become lum- 
inous. 

Whenever the stopper is taken out in the night, 
Bufiicient light will be evolved, to shew the hour^ 
upon a. watch ; and if care be taken to keep it, in 
general, well closed, it will preserve its illumina- 
tive power for several months. 

465. To take Impressions on Paper from Designs 

made on Stone* 

Tfie stone should be close grained, and the draw- 
ing or writing should be made with a pen dipped ia 
ink, formed of a solution of lac, in leys of pure so* 
da, to which should be added some soap and lamp* 
t)Iack for colouring ; leave it to harden for a few 
days ; then take impressions in the following man* 
tier : dip the surface in water, then dab it with 
printer's ink, and printer's balls; the inlc sticks to 
the design, and not to ihte stone, and the impression 
'may be taken with wet paper by means of a rolling 
or screw-press, in the ordinary manner. Several . 
hundred copies may be taken from the l^ame design 
^ ihiii simple manner. ' ' 



466* A tkeap and single process Jhr Paintiw <m 
Olass^ sf^eitnt'.for Me Purpose cf making a Magic 
Lanih^ru* 

Take good clear rosin, any ouantit;^, melt it in an 
N$rOQ pot : when melted entii^ely, let it coot a little^ 
-end, before it begins to harden, pour in oil of tur- 
pentine sufficient to keep it liquid when cold. In or- 
der to paint whh it, let it be used with colours, 
ground with oily such as are commonly sold in co- 
four shops* 

467. To iTudlfe Trar^sparent Screens fbr the Exhibit 

Hon of the Phantasmagoria. 

\^i Transparent ^screens are to *be prcpare<5 by 
/"^reading white wax, dissolved in spirits of %vine or 
t)!] of turpentine over thin muslin* A screen so pre* 
pared will roll up without Injury. A clearer screen 
nay he produced by having the muslin always 
strained fipon a rectangular frame, and prepared 
with turpentine instead of wax. Such a screen is 
not always convenient, and it cannot be rolled with- 
out cracking, and becoming if) a short time useless. 
Therefore, nothing can be better for the purpose 
than the former. 

468. Thunder Powder. 

Take sisparaitely, three parts of good dry salt- 
petre, two parts of dry salt of tartar, and pound 
them well together in a mortar; then add toereto 
one pari, or rather more, of flowerof brimstone, and 
take care to pound and mix the whole perfectly to*> 
gether : put this composition into a bottle whh a 
glass stopper, for use. 

Put about two drachms of this mixture in an iroQ 
«poon, over a moderate fire, but not in the flame^ ia 
>a' short time it will melt, and go off with an e9j>)9** 
•jMon like thunder or a loaded cannon* 



342 FARRIERY. 

CEiAP'raR XXI. 
.F\a£tRIEIiY* 



'469. £rRecmptfor the Cholic in a Horse. 

' One table-spoonful of gir>ger beat and lifted, twt) 
or three table spoonfuls of flower of mustard, a giH 
<^f gin, and a quart of warm ale, mix them together, 
and give them in a horn. In an hour or two walk the 
horse out, and repeat it the following day ; care 
should be taken that the hbrse drinks nothing but 
warmed water for two or three days after. 

470* Distemper in Dogs. 

Dr. Bfeine has dtescribed the disease, called the 
tWstemper in I>ogs, with accuracy, atod his medi- 
cines in getieral, are successful : but a gentleman 
Jhad ^dminist^^red Dr. Blainfe's 'medicines to a fa- 
vourite pointer, in the disease called The Distem^ 
jp€^, but with no avail; the unvarying symptoms 
had come on, when the poor animal trawlea into 
the field, and fell atoong some grass, attempting, 
l^utio-vain, to eat.it. The gentleman followed this 
Sfi^gestion of nature, and ordered a handful of grass 
tp be cut in shreds of about half an inch long, and 
^hea mixed with butter, to be put down the ani- 
loal's threat; the dose was, repeated three times in 
qvery twenty-four hours, and a visible amendment 
almost immediately took place, which terminated ia 
r^ecofvery. 

47 1 . To know ibkethtr a Dag is mud omoU 

Dogs suspected of being mad are frequently kill- 
;ed, leaving pei*sons bitten in a dreadful uncertainty, 
Kvheiher the dogs were or were not really mad }^e# 



foltowing experiment has been supposed conelusivc 
on this head : — ^rub the mouth, teeth, and gums of 
the dead dog, if free from blood, with a little roast 
or boiled meat, and offer this meat, so rubbed, te 
another, dog, who will eat it without reluctance if 
the dead dog was not mad, but will refuse it, ^nd 
run away howling from it, if the dead dog was really 
mad. It may be further satisfaction to the parties? 
concerned, to keep the dog tied up for some daySy 
if he cats the meat so prepared*- 



chapter xxil 
fire: 



472. Method of extinguishing Fires in Cki7nnies» 

Stop with a wet blanket the upper orifice of tho 
tunnel ; but the surest and readiest method ia tp 
apply the blanket either to the throat of the chim- 
ney, or over the whole front of the fire-place. If 
there happens to be a chimney board or a register, 
nothing can be so effectual as to apply them im-r 
mediately : and having by that means slopped the 
draught of air from below, the burning soot will be 
put out as readily and as completely as a candle is 
put out by an extinguisher, which acts exactly upoa 
the same principle. 

473. To extricate Horses from Fvi^em 

If the harness be thrown over a draught, orlhcr 
saddle placed on the back of a saddle horse, they 
may be led out of the stable as easily as on com- 
mon occasions. Should there be time to substitute 



344 



mtx. 



tte britfle for the halter, thediffifcuhy towards sar- 
Jhg them wiH be still further dimuiished. 

474> Method of rendering all Sorts of Paper, Lm-< 
en, <tnd Cotton, lets combustible. 
This desirable object may bejn-some degree, ef- 
fected, by immersing these combiistible materiab in 
a strong so|ution of alam water; and, after drvioe 
them, tepeatiogthis immersion, if necessary. Tbuf 
neither the colour, nor the quality of the paper, wilt 
be in the least affected, on the contrary, both will 
be improved ; and the resuU of the experiment mair 
fee ascertamed, by holding a slip of Lp^,^ ^^ 
pared, over a candle. • P-per, so pre. 

475. To prevent Ifhod, Linen, 4^c. from, catching 

One «mce of sulphuiv aneounce of red ochr» 
^nd SIX ounces of a solution of copperas. To pj^: 
vent wood from catching fire it i5 fim to be covSl 
with joiner's glue, over which the powder islnlSl 

Sr t?e wT/- 'u ^' "'^'^'''^ thL.or four'^S^e, 
aiier uie wood is become^ dr^t ir, i; V "'"^^ 

, 476. Method to escape fiom Fire. 

l«.IiL^^"°"""^ ''"'P'® machine ought alwavs ta 
Ofi kept in an upper anartmpnf i» ."»'".'*.' "'ay* to 

; ■ than a shilling oUiST^t„ " "°''""e ™°''« 
^vhich should always be L'^ 7 »'"°P*'' °"* ^"^ "^ 
the chamber and anh»«,T^ '^.''/^ something in 

to let d^n 'chi&n or tfi^m 1'^ ^' ' "°««« 
«fe. : AIoBg the w^e there ,h^.)fir°"'' '" P^« °^ 
to serve af r^W^ll^t /"°"J''t® ^"^^e"^' knots, 

^ the peilon'r d^E To^V'u 'No1/"f '"' °^ 
^y«% high houses should ever be w^hnS"''^ °'*:"- 
wee of this kind. wJtftQut a coutnv-. 



477« To^ n^6 fVa^$r mere ejieaeiam irues^giiAsh* 

ing Fires • 

TJirow into- a pump, which contains fifty or silxty 
Lockets of water, eight or ten pounds of salt oYr 
pearl ashes, and the- water thiis ittiJDregn&ted- will' 
T^'bndferfiilly accelei^te the extinction of thd rtost* 
ftirioua conflagration^ M«d%=*^dler is better than* 
cjear, and 6cz» be obtained when saltand ashes cafn^ 

IK>t# . 

478.^ Tq extinguish Fires speedily • - 

Much mischief arises from want of a little pre* 
sence of^mind on these alarming occasions ; asmall' 
quantity of water v^ell, and immediately applied, wilf 
frequently, obviate great danger, The^mbactent an 
ajarm of ^i«e is given, Wet sonie bliartket?s Well in a 
buicket of water, and sprniad them upott' the' floor of 
the room, where the fire is, and afterwards beat otJt 
the other jfla«ies with a blanket thus wet: two or 
three buckets of water thus used early, will answer 
better than hundredi^ applied at a later period, 
luinen thus wet will be 'useful, but will not answct' 
so well as woollen. . 

459, Hint respecting Women^s and Children's Clothes 

catching Fire* . 

The females and children- in^ every femily shoijld) ' 
be particularly told and.'shew*n that flafnte al-waysi 
tends upwards; and conaequeuttly, that as long. a&^ 
ihey continue erect or in an upright posture, while: 
their clothes are burning, the fire generaily begin— 
ninigiat theJower part of the dressj the flaiaes meet-; 
iag additional fuel, as they ri^e, become- mci^'e 
powerful in; proportion ;, whereby the neck and? 
head, being oKjre exposed than other parts to the^ 
intense ati5 concentr-ated beaV must neceasasily be? 
most injured. In a case of tHiskiod, where t^be suf- 
ferer haptp^iil tp b(s aloner^i and caanot eztiagui^h i 



S4B Htt. 

tbe flames by m*fim% ihnmng the dothts p^tr the 
head, and rolling or lying upen them, she may still 
avoid great agony, and save her life, &y thrommg^ 
herself at full length on the floor, and rolling herse^ 
tkeror^^, This method may not extinguish the flame, 
but to a certainty will reterd its progressy prevent 
&tal injury to the neck and head, and affbnl oppor- 
tunity for assistance : and it may be more practica*^ 
ble than the- othiBr, to the aged and infirm. A carpet 
or hearth-rug instantly lapped round the head and 
body is almost a certain preventive of danger. (And; 
see pp# 120^ 121* CHAP.^x-iiitCirOTflEs*) 

480. To stop the Progress of Fire on^board of Ships., 

From tbie great confusion^ eccastoned by thex 
alarm of fire onboard a ship,, with the difficulty often 
of ascertaining the precise spot where it is, it ap- 
pears alHipst impossible to devise any means to pre- 
vent the progress o£ sdch an accident when once it 
Has got bead*. 

Tne only- mean that seepas to promise-success i» 
tp convey wa.tjer to any part of the ship according to*. 
|he following method i-^^To place strong pipes 
mrough the (tecks, close to the sides of the vessel ;^ 
those gomg to ^e hold must be cased, to prevcDt 
their l>cing damaged by moving stores between the 
decks. These may be so distributed that every part 
between the decks may be within the reach o£a 
stream of water issuing from them* The magazine 
and place where spirits and inflammable stores are 
kept ought to have the greatest number of pipes 
about them, to prevent the fire reaching those parts*. 

Streams of water to the pa^rt on fire may be di- 
i^eted by a lever fi&ed on the top of the pipe, the 
end of which corresponding with the aperture be- 
low, the same vertical plane will pass through the 
lever and the stream. 

Smm engkies^ . such as those )^ for waterbg^^ 



riRS-^Aftiis. 3117. 

g^ribn^ witl be auffictent for (be purp<»e. two^ 
mssn only will be required for the »ervtee of each. 
pflpe,>one to supply. Uvdad the other to direcl die^ 
streacn. 



CHAPTER XXIIh. 
FIRE-ARMS:. 

(and the UANAOEVENT^OF Oi;N-POWDEHk)U 



461^.. To hrown GuU'Barrtls* 

After the barrel is Anisbed, to give it a brow»co- 
lour, it is to be rubbed over with aquafortis or spi- - 
ritof saltdiluted with water, and then to belaid by, . 
for a week or more, tilt a complete coat of rust is-^ 
formed.U A little oil is then to be applied, and the 
surface being rubbed -dry, it is to be polished by. 
iQcans o£ a hacd brush and a little bees'-wax«. 

482. To kHp Afms and potishtd Mttalfrom Rkut^ 

Dissolve one ouQce-oftiamphor in two pounds of 
ifog's lard^ observing to take off the scum; ,thea. 
mix as muchbl^ck lead as^svillgive the mixture an- 
iron colour. Pire arms, &c. rubbed over with this 
mixture, andieft with it on twepty-four hoursj and- 
then dried with a linen cloth, will keep clean for- 
many months* 

4S3> Toj^evtnt Hvaniditi/from bemg prejudiaal t<f 

Eowder Mig€faiHed. 

A Prussian* officer of rank informed^ St». Pi«rre 
that having remarked: vapours to be attracted hy^ 
Undi be had emftlo^edit for drying the atmosphere 



2^48 FIR£»ARKS* 

of a powder m^gazioe, constructed under gromid, 
io the throat of a bastion, but useless from its humid- 
ity. He ordered the concave ceiling of the arch to 
be lined with lead, where the gunpowder was de- 
posited in barrels : the vapours of the vault collect- 
ed in great drops on the leaden roof, run off in 
streamlets along the sides, and left the gunpowder 
barrels perfectly dry, 

484. To recover damaged Gunpowder. 

? The method of the powder iiherchants is this : they 
put part of the powder on a sail cloth, to which they- 
add an equal weight of what is really good ; then, 
with a shovel, they mingle it well together, dry it in 
the sun, and barrel it up, keeping it in a dry and . 
proper place. 

485. To increase the Force of Gunpowder. 

Dr. Baine says, three ounces of pulverized quick- 
lime being added to one pound of gunpowder, its 
force is augmented one-third ; shake the whole to- 
gether till the white colour of the lime disappears. 

486. Method of increasing the Effects of Gmtpow"^ 
der, and also shewing the Necessity of c6rtuinPr%'^\- 
cautions in lauding Fire-Arms^. 

It is a well known fact, which cannot be tbo often '. 
published, that a musket, fowling piece, &Cr is very 
apt to burst if the wadding is not rammed down close » 
to the powder.. Hence it is obvious, that in loading: 
a screw barrel pistol, care should be taken that the- 
cavity for the powcier be entirely filled with it, so^ 
as to leave no space between the powder and the-' 
ball. 

If a bomb or> «heH' is only half-filled with gun^- 
powder, it breaks into a great number of pieces;' 
wJiereas, if it is quitcf filled, it merely separates into" 
two or three pieces, which are thrown to a veiJy- 
great distance* 



riRE-WORlCS* 24^ 

Jf the trunk of a tree is charged with gunpowder, 
for the purpose of splitting it. and the wadding is 
rammed down very hard upon the powder, in ihak 
case the wadding is only driven out, and the tree 
remains entire ; but if, instead of ramming the wad- 
ding close to the powder, a certain space is left bc-^ 
tween them, -the efiects of the powder are then such 
as to tear the tree asunder* 



CHAPTER XXIV. 
flRE- WORKS. 



437. To make Siy Society. 

The charges for sky rockets are made of salt- 
petre four pounds, brimstone one pound, and char-<^ 
coal one pound and a half; or by another direction, 
saltpetre four pounds, brimstone one pound and a 
half, charcoal twelve ounces^ and meal powder two 
ounces. These proportions vary again according to 
the size of the rockets ;. in rocKets of four ounces^ 
mealed powder, saltpetre, and charcoal, are used 
in the proportions of 10, 2, and 1 ; but in very large 
rockets the proportions are, saltpetre four, mealed^ 
powder and sulphur one each. When stars aire 
wanted, camphor, alcohol, antimony, and other in- 
gredients, are required, according as the stars are 
to be blue, white, &c. In somo cases gold and siU 
Ycr rain is required, theo brass dust, steel dust, saw. 
dust, &c. enter into the composition ; hence the va- 
rieties may be almost indefinite. With respect to 
colour, sulphur gives, a blue, camphor a white or 
pale colour, salt-petre a whitish yellow, sal-ammo- 
niac, a green, antimony a reddish, rosin a coppe^ 



230 GARDENTXQ BOTANY. 

colour. These materials require preparation before 
they are fit for use j and before a person qan be 
qualified for the business of fire-work making, he 
must understand the method of making the moulds, 
cases, &c. and be acquainted with the instruments 
used in the art, their dimensions and materials. 

488. Improvement in Fire-Works » 

Professor Proust has discovered that nitrate of 
soda is an economical article in their composition 5 
and that five parts of the nitrate, one of charcoal, and 
one of sulphur, afford a powder which produces 6 
flame of beautiful reddish yellow colour.^ 



CHAPTER XXV, 
GARDENIMl— BOTANY. 



SECT. I.— MANAGEMENT OP GREEN- 

HOUSE, &c. 

489. Proper Situation for a Green-house^ or Rooi^» 

The aspect of a green-house may be at any point 
from east to west, following the course of the sun ; 
or it may even be a little to the north of east or west ; 
but only a little,, and the less the better, otherwise 
the plants will not generally thrive in it, nor will the 
flowers acquire their natural colours. 

490. To air Plants, and ventilate Rooms zoherein 

they are contained. 

Plants should have air, every day in the year, to 
make them grow well ; but this matter, in sitting- 
rooms, will not of course be regulated for theic 



sakes, especially in the colder seasons. Wherever 
^aced, however, some attention should be paid to 
airing and ventilating the rooms regularly, by open- 
ing the windows and occasionally the doors, in or- 
der to excite a free circulation of air. This should 
be done to a certain extent ^very day, according to 
the state of the weather, except in the time of se- 
vere frost, when it would not be advisable to admit 
external air. But at such times, if bad weather be of 
long continuance, the rooms may be ventilated by 
lineans of the doors, and by exciting a current of air 
in the passages, or other parts of the house. 

In very severe frost, or in a continuation of damp 
weather, moderate fires should be made for the sake 
of the plants, if placed in rooms not occupied. The 
window shutters should also be closed at night« 



SECT. IL— SEEDS. 

491. Easy Method of disvovering whether or not 

Seeds are sufficiently ripe. 

. Seeds, when not sufficiently ripe, will swim, but 
when arrived at full maturity, they will be found uni- 
formly to fall to the botiom ; a fact that is said to 
hold equally true of all seeds, from the cocoa nut to 
the orchis. 

492. On preserving Seeds of Plants in a State ft for 
' " Vegetation* 

Seeds of plants may be preserved, for many months 
at least, by causing them to be packed, either in 
liusks, pods, &;c. in absorbent paper, with raisins 
or brown moist sugar ; or a good way, practised by 
gardeners, is to wrap the seed in brown paper or 
cartridge paper, pasted down, and then varnished 
over. 



85% OARD£NING"-^B0TANr« . 

493.^ To facilitate th€ Gramth of Foreign Seeds* 

Mr. Hambolt has found) that seeds, which do not 
commonly germinate in our climate, or in our hot- 
^oustss, and which of course we cannot raise for our 
gardens, or hope to naturalize in our fields, become 
capable of germinating, when immersed for some 
days in a^eak oxygenised muriatic acid* This ii> 
leresting discovery has already turned to advan- 
tage in several botanic gardens. 



SECT. III.— MANAGEMENT OF GARDfiN* 

BORDERS. 

494. To plant and make Edgings. 

Edgings of da^isies^ thrift, violets, gentianella, 
&G. should be planted in February; but those of 
box succeed better, if planted in April or August. 

New edgings should be planted rather closely, 
that they may haye an immediate eifcct ; and, in re- 
pairing old ones, j^lant very close, that the whole 
may appear the more uniformi. Some plant these, in 
either case, with the dibble,'^btit it is better to do 
this with the spade ; cutting out by the line, a drill 
or furrow, perpendicular, on the sifle next' the bor- 
der, and to^ depth suitable to the si2e of the roots 
^to be laid ; placing them against the perpendicular 
«ide, and spreadit^g out their fibres sideways; ex- 
posing them to the air^s short a time bs possible* 

495. :Hov3 to cut Box Edgings* 

Box edgings should be cut about the beginning of 
April, or in the end of J uly. They -should, however, 
l)e cut once a year, and should be kept two inches 
in breadth at bottom; being tapered up to a thia 
rdge at top ; for nothing IooIk^o ill as a large busbf 



CULTtTRE, &C. or FLOWfiRS* i5i 

•edging, especially to a narrow walk. The use of 
edging is to separate the earth from the gravel, and 
the larger they are allowed to grow^ the less effec- 
tual they become ; getting the more open below, as 
4hey advance in height. Such also harbour snails^ 
and' other troublesome vermin. 

496. A sure Method of curing Gravel Walks. 

Three parts pond water to one of brine, from the 
salting-tub in a family, poured with a watering pot 
tipon gravel walks, will not only kill the moss upon 
them, but drive away the worms which make so 
many holes in them, and also prevent weeds spring- 
ingup. This a gentleman, has lately tried, who 
has several gravel walks in a grove near his house« 
Since he moistened bis walks with brine, which is 
«ow four years ago, they are incommoded neither 
by moss, weeds, or worms. Every autumn he caus- 
es them to be well watered with the brine and pood 
water, during a whole week, to prevent moss, and 
a week in the spring, to guard against weeds and 
worms, besides giving them a sprinkling every now 
^nd then in summer season, when they se^m to 
-want it. 



SECT. IV — ^OULTURE AND MANAGJIMENT 

OF FLOWERS. 

497. Proper Method of laying 'Car Tuitions. 

. y In summer, towards nhe latter end of June, or 
A any time in July, or beginning of August, when 
the shoots of the year are advanced to a proper 
growth, being from four-, five, or six, to seven or 
eight inches long, which are to be laid as they grow 
on the plants, and to remain affixed thereto til| 
rooted in the ground. 

w 



254 GARDENING — BOTANT. 



} 



: Thus far observed, begin the work by first clear- 
iog away a1i weeds about the plants, and loosen the 
earth a little around tbem« and if the surface is low, 
add some mould thereto sufficient to raise it high 
enough to receive the layers easily ; then begin the 
laying the shoots one by one ; strip off the lower 
leaves so as to have some inches of a clear shoot 
•below; and trim the top leaves shorter and even, 
and then slit or gash the shoot on the under side ; 
in doing which, fix on a joint about the middle of 
the shoot underneath, and wkh your sharp knife 
cut half through the joint, and slanting upwards, so. 
as to slit the shoot up the middle half an inch, or 
but little more ; which . done, directly lay it, by 
bending it down to the earth with the gash or slit 
part open, making an opening in the earth, and peg 
it down with one or two of the small-hooked sticks, 
and earth over the body of the layer an inch or two . 
deep, still keeping the slit open and the top raised 
gently upright, pressing the earth moderately upon 
them ; and in this manner proceed with laying all 
the shoots on each plant ; and when all are laid . 

five a gentle watering to settle the earth close ar 
out the layers, and repeat it frequently in dry 
weather. 

They will soon emit roots at the gash or slit part, 
generally at the bottom of the tongue, and in five or 
six weeks will often berooted fit for separating and 

Elanting off from the parent:, so that when they have 
een about five^ six, or seven w6eks laid, you will 
examine the progress they have made in rooting, 
by opening the earth gently about some of the lay- 
ers ; and as soon as they appear to be tolerably 
rooted, let them be cut off from the old plant with a 
sharp knife, in order to be timely planted out in 
nursery beds, that they may root more abundantly, 
and get due strength before winter ; observing, m 
^cutting them' off from the mother plant, to open the 



CCLTtJRE, &C. OP rLOWERS. 255 

^ound so as to take them up with all the roots they 
have made, and cut them clean off beyond the gash; 
afterwards trior off any naked woody part or bot- 
tom, but preserve all the roots, and trim the long 
tops a little, then plant them in nursery rows, six 
inches asunder, or you may prick some in small 
pots, one layer in each, giving water directly at 
planting, and repeat it often in dry weather till 
they take good root, and grow freely, keeping them^ 
clean from weeds. 

lliose in the nursery beds will, by October," be* 
good strong plants. The choicest sorts may then 
be planted in pots, to move under occasional shel- 
ter in time of severe frost, and for which purpose, 
either use small pots- (S3) to contain them* all win-' 
ter, or plant them in large pats (24 or 16) toremata 
to flower, observing to take them, up out of the nur- 
sery beds for potting, &c. with a garden trowel,, 
each layer with a good ball of earth about the roots ; 
and. having the pots ready, placing a shell overtha 
holes at bottom, and put some good Irght rich earth 
therein ; plant one layer with its ball about the 
roots entire, in each pot, fill up with more earth,, 
and' give some water; you may also at the same 
lime plant some of the more ordinary or common 
sorts into flower- borders or beds, to stand the full 
weather all the year, but the choicer sorts in the 
pots, may,^ in November, be placed close together, 
either in a garden-frame, to have occasional protec- 
tion of the glasses, or mats, in severe frost, and have 
the full air in all open weather and mild days, or 
Diay be plunged in a raised bed of any dry compost, 
raised some inches above the common level, and 
arched over with hoop arches, in order to be pro- 
tected with occasional covering of garden mats whea 
hard frosts prevail ; but in either method be sure 
to expose them fully in all open weather, as afore^- 
said. 



256 €ARDENING— BOTANT. 

In the spring, such as have remained all vHnter m 
small pots, should, in February, or early in March, 
be turned out with the ball of earth about the root, 
and planted into larger pots, to remain for flower* 
ing, giving proper waterings ;, and those which were 
potted at once into larger pots in autumn, should 
now have the earth stirred at top, taking out some, 
and fill up with fresh good earth, and give a little 
water. 

The layers planted in the common borders of the 
pleasure aerd flower garden require no other care 
than keeping them clean from weeds, and tying up 
the flower stalks to sticks when they are advanced 
long enough to require support* 

498, Plants watered by being placed in Dishes^ tm* 

proper* 

The practice of placing flats or sauders under 
plants, and feeding them by the roots, that is, pour- 
ing the water continually into these dishes, and nev- 
er on the earth at top, is highly improper* The 
water should always be poured on the surface of the 
earth, that it may filter completely through il^ to 
the benefit and riefreshmeat of the fibres. 

499. When to plant^Annual and Perennial Fhwers^ 

Many kinds of annuals and perennials, sown in 
March and the beginning of April, will be fit for 
transplanting about the end of May, and may either 
be planted in patches about borders, or in beds, as 
fehcy shall direct. Of these, the kinds improved 
by transplanting, are, amaranthuses, China asters, 
columbines, French and African marigolds, fox- 
gloves, holly hocks, Ipdia pinks, love lies a bleed- 
ing, mallows, migniotte, prince's feather, scabious,* 
stocks, sun-flowers^ sweet-williams, wall-fiowers, 
^ and others. They should be planted out in a show- 
ery time, if possible, or otherwise be frequently 
wata-ed, till they have struck root. 



CULTURE, &C. OF FLOWMILS. 25T' 

SOD. To remove Herbs and Flowers in the Sumnurl^ 

If you have occasion ta transplant iii the summer 
season^ let it be in the evening after the heat is 
past, plant and water the same immediately, and 
there will be no danger from the heat next day ; but 
be careful, in digging up the earth, you do not 
break any of the'young shoots, as the sap will exudo 
out of the same to the great danger of the plants. 

501. Method of growing Flowers and Fnuts during 

IVinter, . 

In order to plroduce this effect, the trees or shrubs 
being taken up in the spring, at the time when they 
are about to bud, with some of their own soil care- 
fully preserved among the roots, must be placed 
upright in a cellar till Michaelmas ; when, with the 
addition of fresh earth, they are to be put into 
proper tubs or vessels, and placed in a stove or hot* 
house, where they must every morning be moisten- 
ed or refreshed with a solution of half an ounce of 
saUamnioniac in a pint of rain water* Thus, in the' 
month of February, fruits or roses will appear-, and 
with respect to^ flowers in general, if they are sown> 
in pots at or before Michaelmas, and watered in a^ 
similar manner, they will blow at Christmas. . 

502. To preserve delicate young Shoots of Flowers' 

from Slugs and Earwigs. . 

Earwigs ' and slugs are fond of the points-of the 
young shoots, of carnations and pink<, and are very 
troublesome in places where they- aBound. To 
prevent them' from getting to the fine stage plants, 
or supports of the stage, they are someti|nes insu- 
lated in water, being set in cisterns op pan&. . If a 
pencil, dipt in oil, was drawn round the bottom of 
the posts once in two day-, neither of these insects 
nor ants would attempt them. Few insects can«a« 

W 2: 



dure 6iL Tbe smallest dr<^ of it is instanily fatal' 
to many kinds* 

403. ViHues of the Sun-FIozcer. 

Yhe^calfcivation of the annual sun-flower is recom- 
mended to the notice of the public^ as possessing 
the advantages of furnishing abunda^ice of agreea- 
ble fodder for cattle in their leaves. When in flow- 
er, bees flock to them from all quarters to gather hon- 
6y. l^heseed is valuable in feeding sheep, pigs, 
and other animals ; it produces a striking effect in 
pouIiTy, as occasioning them to lay more e^gs, and 
H yields a large quantity of excellent oil, oy pres- 
sure ; the dry stalker burn weli^ the ashes affording 
a cofi^idctable quaniity of alkali. 

504. *fo preserve Flmver Seeds. 

Those wlio are curious about saving flower sceds,^ 
must attend to them in the month of August. Many 
kinds will begin to ripen apace, and should be care-, 
fully sticked and supported, to prevent them from 
l^eing shaken, by higli winds, and so partly lost. 
Others should be defended from much wet ; such as 
asters, marigolds^ and generally those of the class 
Syngenesia ; as from the construction of their flow- 
ers they are apt to rot, and the seeds to mould, in 
bad seasons.. Whenever tfcey are thought ripe, or 
indeed any others, in wet weathef, tbey should be. 
removed to ai!i airy sbed or loft, gvadually dri^d^ 
and rubbed or beat Q%vt at conveniency. 



< \i " " >'< ' 



SECT. V.^-€GLTURE ANO TREATMENT^ 
OF FRUIT TREES AND SHIIUBS. 

• To prte^ent Bhssom mtd fVuit Tfwsfram iemgr 
damaged h^ early Spring Frost. 

If a rope (a hempen one it is presumed) be intefi^ 



\ 



CUtTITHS, &C. or 7EI7IT TREBS AND SHRUBS. 359 

mixed among the branches of a fruit-tree in blos- 
som, and the end of it brooght down, so as to ter* 
tninate in a bucket of water, and should a slight 
frost take place in the night-time, in that case the 
tree will not be affected by the frost ; but a film of 
ice, of considerable thickness, \v44l be forined on 
the surface of the bucket in which the rope's end 
is immersed, although it has often happened that 
another bucket of water, placed beside it for the 
sake of experiment^ has had no ice at all upon it, 

506. Ckinest Mode of propagating Fruii Trees* 

The ingenious people of Chiina have a common 
method of- propagating several kinds of fruit trees, 
which of iate yeai^ has been practised. with success 
in Bengal.. The method is simply this : — They 
strip a ring of bark, about an inch in width, from a 
bearing branch,, surround the place with a ball of 
fat ean*th, or loam, bound fast to the brancli with a 
piece of matting : over this they suspend a pot or 
horn, with water, having a small hole in the bottom 
^ust sufficient to let the watier drop, in order to keep 
the earth constantly nrwtst. The branch thrown aew 
roots TOto the earth jiist above the plsce where the 
ring of bark wa§ stripped off* The operation is 
performed in the spring, and tbe branch is sawn off 
and put into the grouiid at the faU of the loaf. The 
following year it will bear, fruit., 

$07. . Tp improve Fruit Tr^es b^, Mimtion to ihe Col- - 

^ur qf the SoiL 

The colour^ and al.^ Ane^eality of soils have an 
effect on the colour and flavow of fruits — even oft 
the colour of many flowen. Th0 elfects of the co* 
Jour of soils, on that of fruils, are most perceptikte 
6n the delicate kinds^ si»ch as grapes, peacbes^ &c. 
but to a nice observer, it esEOendb ki agpeaber-or ku 
^g^ee ^M fkn^k%. For kstat»te^ if two lolapk 



260 GARDENING — BOTAlOr. 

Hamburg grapes, made from the cuttiflgs^ of the 
same plant, shall be planted, the one in a dry bazely 
loam^ and the other in a moist black earfch, the fruit- 
of the one will be brown, or of a grizly colour,, 
and the other very dark red or black; and the grape 
will be more juicy, though better in flavour* thacb 
the other grown in a drier soil;. 

508. To increase the Growth in Trees. . 

It may be depended upon as a fact,, that by occa-- 
sionally washing the stems of trees,., their growth i 
will be greatly increased : . for several receat experi- 
ments have proved that all the itigredienis of vege- 
tation united, which- are- reeei'ved- from the roots^ 
stem, branches^ and leaves,, of a mos&y and dirty 
tree, do not produce iaJf the increase either in* wood 
or fruit, that anoiher^ains whose stem is clean. It 
is cleajrly obvious- that proper nourishment cannot^ 
be reeeived from rain, for tbe dirty stem will retaia.. 
the moisture loftger than when clean, and the mos& 
and dirt willabsorb the' finest pacts of the dew, and . 
likewise act as* askreen,. by depriving the tree of. 
liiat share of sun and air whick it requires. 

A common scrubbing-brush and clean water is 
all that is necessary, only caj*e must be observed . 
not to ifrjttre the bark.. 

509. To prevent Hares and Rabbits from barking 

young Plantations. 

Hares^ i^abbits, and rats, have a natural antipathy 
to tar ; but tar, though fluid, contracts, when ex- 
posed to the sun and airfora time j, a ^reiat dryness 
tnd-a very, binding quality ; and if applied to trees 
ioits natural state, will occasion them to be bai*k 
bound. To remove this dilfiGulty,.tar4s of so strong 
a ^vour, that -a small quantity, mixed with othec 
things, iu their nature open, and loose, will give tho 
iriole mixture such Ol degree of it^ owA taste and 



eoLTURE, Sic. or fruit trees' and shrubs. 2St 

smell, as will prevent bases, &c» tQUching what it 
is applied to. 

Take any quantity of tar, and six or seven times 
as much grease, stirring and mixing them well to- 
gether : with this composition brush the stems of 
young trees, as high as bares, &c. can reach; and 
it wHl effectually prevent their being barked. 

6 1 0. Bad Effects of Iron J^a'ils^ <$rc. on Fy^it Trees^ . 
or mischievous Effects of Iron Kails in. Conjunc-- 
tion with Branches of Fruit Trees* 

It often happens that some of the limbs of fruit * 
trees, trained against a wall, are bligh^d and die, 
while others remain in a bealthy and flourishing 
state. This has been hitherto erroneously attribut- 
ed to the effects of lightning; but, from closer ob- 
servation, and from several experiments, it has been 
found to arise from the corroding effects^of the rust 
of the naib and cramps with which trees in this situ- 
ation are fastened* To avoid this inconvenience, 
therefore, it requires only to be careful in prevent?^, 
rng the iron from coowng in contact with the bark 
of the trees. 

511. To destroy- Moss on Trees. 

Remove it with a hard scrubbing-brush in Feb* 
Tuary and March, and wash the trees with cow«^ 
dung, urine, and soap-suds. 

512. Necessity of taking off superfluous Suckers 

from Shrubs. 

Many flowering shrubs put out strong suckera 
from the root, such as. lilacs, syringa, and some of 
the kinds of roses, which take greatly from the 
sireijgth of the mother plant ; and which., if not wan- 
ted f(.r the purpose of planting next season, should 
be twisted off, or otherwise destroyed. 

513. To cure the Disease in Apple Trees. 
Brush off the white down, clear'offthe rei'Staih 



96^ GARDBNrNG-*BOTANY. ' 

omlernealh it, and anoint the pkces infected witfe* 
liquid mixture of train oil and Scotch snuft*. 

514. To cure the Canker in Trees, 

Cut them pffito the quick, and apply a fwece of 
sound bark from any other tr^e, and bind it on with 
a flant^el roller. Cut off the canker, and a new shoot 
will grow strong, but in a year or two you will find 
h cankered. 

515. A- Method of curing Fruit Trees Infected with 

an Easterly Blight. 

Where valuable fruit trees are infected with thia 
blight, they may, with HttJe trouble and expense, 
be in a short time cured, by fumigating them with, 
brimstone strewed on light charcoal ; this effectual* 
ly kills them ; but the workman must observe to get 
to windward of the trees, as the fumes both of brim- 
stone and charcoal are very offensive and perni- 
cious. 

• Mr. Milher recommends washing and sprinkling 
the blighted ti'ees from time to time, with commo«i 
water (thai is, such as hath not had any thing, 
steeped in it) and the sooner that is performed, 
(whenever we apprehend' danger) the better; amV* 
if the young and tender shoots seem to he much in- 
fected, wash them with a woollen cloth so as to cleacv 
them if possible, from all glutinous matter, that 
their respiration and perspiration may not be ob-. 
structed, and if some broad flat pans, or tubs, are 
placed near the trees, it will keep their tender parts 
in a ductile state, and greatly ke^p them ; but 
whenever this operation of washing the trees is per- 
formed, it should be early in the day, that the mois- 
ture may be exhaled before the cold of the night 
comes on, especially if the nights are frosty, nor 
should it be done when the sun shines very hot up- 
on the wall, which would be subject to scorcfa up the* 
tender blossom. 



*VLTVRE, &c. OF rRblT TBASS ANB SBRCBS. 263 

616. Experienced Method qf healing Wmihds in 

Trees. 

^ JtrJ^l! ^!!i^f ^^I'g --^-i^ of com, 

to each 'pound of aiirmiied ^i^lA^^ 
pulverized and sifted.if^^^r^'^^^^^^"^^ of an al- 
most liquid na^i--^''^^'^^^*® P^*^^ *^ wounds of 
trees a«»^ ^ "^ covered, by means of a brush, after 
the bark and other substance have 'been pared, so 
as to render the whole as smooth and even as pos- 
sible. The varnish must be applied in dry weather, 
in order that it may attach itself properly. 

>517. Composition for healing Wounds in Trees* 

Take of dry pounded chalk, three measures ; and 
of common vegetable tar, one measure; mix them 
thoroughly, and boil them, with a low heat, till the 
composition becomes of the consistency of bees- 
wax ; it may be preserved for use, in this state, for 
any length of time. If chalk cannot conveniently 
be got, dry brick dust may be substituted. 

Application. — After the broken or decayed limb 
has been sawed off, the whole of the saw-tut m\x%t 
be very careiuUy pared away, and the rough edges 
of the bark, in particular, must be made quite 
smooth ; the doing of this properly is of great con- 
sequence ; then lay on the above composition, hot, 
about the thickness of half-a-crown,* over the wounds 
-ed place,, and over the edges of the surrounding 
bark ; it should be spread with a hot trowel. 

518. To prune Wall Fruit. 

Cut off all fresh shoots, however fair they may 
appear to the eye, that will not, without much bend- 
ing, be well placed to the wall; for if any branch 
happen to be twisted or bruisied in the bending or 
turning (which you may not easily perceive) al- 



364 ^ARDEHINCt—BOTAinf. 

thoueh it may erow and prosper for tbe present^ yrt 
!t3 dec^y in time, and the sap or gum will issue 

from that place. 
^Q To prune Vines to Advantage. 

^Af^Yines, leave some new branches everv 
"^l^V" -11 ^ f -^^^^ «^any) some of the old 
which will be of g^*-:.u.^^^ge to the tree, and 
much increase the quantity orirow. 

When you trim your viite, leave two knota,^Tvd 
^ut them off the next time ; for, usually, the two 
buds yield a bunch of grapes. Vines, thus pruned, 
have l^een known to bear abundantly, whereas 
others that have been cut close to please the eye, 
have been most barren of fruit. 

520. The most proper Time when Leaves of 'TVees 
ought to be collected for pharmaceutical and econn* 
mical Purposes. 

It is at that period when the plant is in full flow- 
er, that the leaves possess their full virtue. They 
drop when their particular life has termiuatedi: 



-SECT. VL— CULTURE AND MANAGEMENT 

OF GARDEN CROPS. 

h21. To prqpagate JSerbsiy Slips and Cuttings. 

-Many kinds of pot herbs may, in July, be propa- 
gated by cuttings or slips, which may be planted 
out to nurse on a shady border for a few weeks, or 
rtill they have struck root, and may then be planted 
"OUt where they are to remain. If made about the 
middle, or end of the month, they will be ready for 
transplanting before the end of August, and in that 
case will be well established before the winter. 



CULTimE, &C. OF GARO&K CROPS. SCd 

The kinds are marjoram, mint, sage, savory, sor- 
rel, tansy, tarragons, and thyme. 

-522. Mew Method of rendering Asparagus morepro^' 
dvctive^ and of producing it in everxj Month in the 
Year. 

The flowers of asparagus are found, on a strict 
examination, to be diaecious, although arranged by 
Linnaeus, and other botanists, as hermaphrodite. 

Those individuals which bear berries have abor- 
tive stamina, and those which have perfect stamina 
are destitute of pistils, or at least have only abor- 
"tire ones. 

The male plants throw up a far greater quantity 
of shoots than the female ones, although not quite 
equal to them in size. 

In -the formation, therefore, of beds, the male 
plarttsonly should be selected, which may easily be 
done by not planting them from -the seed bed until 
they -ha ve floAvered. 

When tlie plaiits are one year old, transplant 
them into the other beds, at six inches distance ;' 
kt them remain there until they flower, which will 
be, in most of them, in the second year ; put a small 
stick to each male plant, to mark them ; and pull up 
the females, unless you chuse to make a small plan- 
tation with some of them, to prove the truth of the 
experiment. 

As asparagus is esteemed one of the greatest deli* 
cacies which the garden affords, no person fond of 
it should be unacquainted with the method of pro- 
ducing it in every month of the year. 

Towards the end of J^ly, especially if it be rainy 
weather, cut down the stalks of the asparagus, fork, 
up the beds and rake them smooth* If it be dry, w^ 
ter them with the draining of a dunghill ; but, io 
stoad of leaving them round, leave them rather flat 
or hollow in the middle, the better to retain tbe wa- 



26€ «A»1>«NINCJ BOtAKV. 

ter or rain. In about twdve or fourteen days the as- 
paragus will begin to appear, and if it be dry wea- 
■fher, continue watering once or twice a week. , 

By this method you may cut asparagus till about 
the end of September, at which time the hot-beds 
will succeed this ; so that by making five or "six hot- 
beds during the winter, you may have a regular suc- 
cession of it every montn of the year. 

Some persons will object to cutting the same beds 
twice a year: lo obviate this objection, leave two 
^r three beds uncut in spring, and make a few more 
beds, if you choose to follow the practice. 

Asparagus seed is very cheap ; nor is it necessa- 
ry to tise so much- as was formeriy used ia making 
fbe beds. It i$ better to apply a little rotten diing on 
he tops, of the beds, and to sow^ome seed every 
year, thai you may have plenty of plants for forcing 
And making new beds. Be not too fond of contiRU- 
ftig the old ones, when you perceive they begin to 
fail, but make new ones, and force the old roots. 

f 23. To rai^e Capsicums^ and make Cayenne Pepper. 

P Cayenlre peppet is a spice used in most families, 
and often cultivated in tne gardens for ornament, 
without either gentlemen or gardeners knowing that 
they have so valuable a spice in their possession ; 
fer the usual price is a shilling an ounce, and even 
then it is not much dearer than black, as it will go 
about four times as far; 

This pepper originally came from Gayennc, in 
South America, (and other warm countries) from 
whence it took its name, but is now so naturalized 
to this climate as to be raised on a common hot-bed 
in spring. 

' It is produced from the capsicum, which is raised 
for ornament, with many other annual flowers, or 
for picfcling the green pods, and is the seed and pod 
H^en ripe* 



CULtURE, &C. OF GARDEN CROPS. iSt 

Itt March or April, procure some pods of any of 
the sorts of capsicums, as there are many varieties 
of them of different shapes; take out. the seeds, and 
BOW them on a hot- bed, not too thick. 

When tliey are about four inches high, prick them 
out on the hot-bed, at six inches asunder; or put 
each into a small pot, or three into a large one, and 
keep them still under the glasses. 

In June, when the weather is settled, plant them 
all in a warm situation, in rich earth, where they 
are to remain ; some on the borders of the flower- 
garden, and some into larger pots, which you caa 
shelter in bad weather. 

524. Jfew Method of raising Cucumbers. 

From the best seed that can be got of the com- 
mon prickly cucumber, raise plants on a moderate 
hot-bed, not hurrying them too much in their growth. 
In May, when the danger of the frost is nearly over, 
familiarise the plants, by degrees, to the air, aml^ 
towards the latter end of the month plant them in 
the open ground against a south wall. Take care 
not to give them too much water, as that will injure 
Xhe fruit. When they have run up about five feet, 
they will send forth blossoms, and the fruit will be- 
gin to shew itself soon after. The flesh of cucum- 
bers raised in this manner will be thicker and firm- 
er, and the flavour vastly more delicious, than those, 
^•aised from the same seed, but planted in the ordin- 
ary way, 9ind the runners suffered t.o trail on the 
ground. Though a south wall, in most gardens, is. 
too much appropriated to other things, to give room 
for cucumbers in general, yet in every garden a few 
plants may be so trained by way of rarity, and to 
save seed, which is found to be greatly improved by 
this method, so as to produce much better cucum- 
bers in the common way of raising them. One op 
two plants, so raised, will supply a Sufficient quao- 
iity of seed for a hirge garden. 



268 GARDEBriNG BdTANT. 

Laying a cucumber, or melon bed, with tiles, is 
also of particular service in improving the fruit, and 
giving it a proper flavour. 

525« Th prevent the irregular Growth of Melons* 

It is well known that melons frequently in certain 
situations, lose their circular form, and grow larger 
on one side than the other, and that those mishapen 
fruits are always bad. To remedy this, take a. smalt* 
forked stick, in proportion to the size of the melon, 
and thrust it into the ground as nearly as possible 
to the tail of the fruit, taking the precaution to lay a 
little moss between the two prongs, and suspend the- 
IneloD to this fork. In a few days the melon will re- 
sume its form, when the fork may be removed, and. 
the operation is finished. The quality of the fruit 
retnains unj.;hdnged. 

526. Easy Method of producing Mushrooms. 

If the water wherein mushrooms have been steep-^ 
ed or washed be poured upon an old bed, or if the 
broken parts of mushrooms be strewed thereon, 
there will speedily arise great numbers.. 

527. To obtain a good Crop of Onions^ 

In order to obtain a good crop of onions, it is 
proper to sow at diflerent seasons, viz. in light soils, 
in August, January, or early in February ; and i{i 
heavy wtt soils, in March, or early in April. Onions, 
however, should not be sown in January, unless the 
ground be in a jdry state, which is not often the case 
at so early a period of the season ; but if so, advan- 
tage should be taken of it. 

528. The Advantage in sowing Peas in Circles m- 

stead of straight Rows. 

It is a great error in those persons who sow the 
rows of tall growing peas close together, li is much 
better in all those sorts> which grow six or eiffht 



feet kifihy to have only pue row, aQd> then to leave a 
bed ten or twelve feet wide fqr oaionS) cacrots, or 
any crops which do not grow talL 

The advantages which will be derived are, that 
the peas will not he drawn up so muoh, be stronger, 
will ^ower maci» nearer tth^ grpia^d, Aisd jii wet wea- 
ther can be move easily ga^ejred without wetting, 
you. . 

But instead of sowing peas in straight rows^ if 
you will form the ground into circles of three feet 
diameter, with a space of two feet between each 
circle, ifi a row thirty feet long, you will have six 
circles of peas, each nine feet ; in all, fifty-four feet 
of peas instead of tliirty, on the saiae extent of 
ground. 

• Ky-ou wafit more than one row of circles, leave 
^ bed of ten or twelve feet before you begin another. 

For the very tall sorts, four feet circles will afford 
more room for the rooits to grow in, and care must 
be tak.e«, by applying some^ieuder twigs, or $tping^,.. 
to prevent the circles from joining each other. 

This method is eqaally ^applicabte for scarlet 
Beans. 

529. T» raise Peas in ^ui^mn^ ai^d t9 prevmt ,Mic.^ 
from testing ihiem whm sovfn^ 

The purplc-flowered peas arc fou«d to answer 
best for a la-tc crop in autumn, aS' they are not so li- 
able to be mfldewcd as many of the other sorts, and 
will continue floAvering till the frost stops them. 

Those pea^ may W sown in July, August, or so 
tete as the first week in September, if «own in a 
warm sheltered situation, and in a soil inclining to 
sand. 

Soak the peas in warm milk, and after yoa have 
drawn the oriH«, water them befoi'e y<)U «ow the 
peas 5 h is best to sow them towards the ^v-ening*. 

x2 



£70 OARDENINO — BOTANr. 

If the autumn should prove very dry, they will re* 
quire frequent watering. 

When peas are sown before winter, or early ia 
spring, they are very apt to be eaten by mice.. 

To prevent this, soak the peas for a day or twt> 
in train oil before you sow them, which will encour* 
age their vegetation, and render them se obnox- 
ious to the mice, that they will not eat them. 

53Q. Method of cultivating Radishes for Salad, so as 
to have them ready at all Seasons of the Year* 

Take seeds of the common radish, and lay them 
in rain water ta steep for twenty- four hours ; then^ 
put them quite wet, into a small linen bag, well tied 
at the mouth with packthread. If you have steeped 
a large quantity of seeds, you may divide them iato 
several bags. Then expose the bags in a place 
WheiTe they will receive the greatest heat of the sun^, 
fdr about twenty-four hours, at the end of whicb 
time the seed will begin to grow, and you may theiv 
sow it in the usual manner, in earth well exposed to^ 
the heat of the sun^^ Prepare two small tubs to cov- 
er each other exactly.. These may be easify pro- 
vided, by sawing a small cask through the middle, 
and they will serve in winter ; in summer one wilt 
be sufficient for each kind of earth that has^been 
sown. As soon as you have sown your seeds you 
must cover them with your tub, and at the end of 
three days you will find radishes of the size and 
thickness of young lettuce, having at their extremi- 
ties two small round leaves, rising from the earth, 
ef a reddish colour. These radishes, cut or pulled 
up, will be excellent, if mixed with salad^ and they 
have a much more delicate taste than the commoa 
xadishes which stre eaten with salt. 

By taking the following precautions you mav 
have them in the. winter, and even during the hard- 
est frosty :' After- having steeped the seed^ iawarmt 



CULTURE, &C.-Or 6ARI>iiN CROPS. ^7f> 

water, and exposed. them to the sun as already di- 
rected, or in a place sufBcienlly hot to make them 
shoot forth, warm the two tubs ; fill one of them 
With earth well dunged ; sow your seeds, thus pre- 
pared, in one of them, and cover it with the other 
tub ; yoti must then be care&l to sfHinkle it with 
warm water as often as may be necessary. Then 
carry the two tubs closely joined, taking care they 
cover each other, into a warm vault, or cellar, and 
at the end of fifteen days yoa may gather a fine 
salad. 

53 1 . To preserTkt. Strawberry^ Plants from the Heat of, 

the Swn,. <S/-c., 

Sir Joseph Banks,.from a. variety of experiments,, 
and the cxperience-ot many y^ars, recommends a. 
general revival of the^no^i^ almost obsolete practice^ 
of laying straw under strawberry plants, when the 
fruit begins to swell j;-by which means the roots are 
shaded fi*om the sun, the waste of moisture by 
evaporation prevented, the leaning fruit kept from 
damage, by resting on the grouiKl, particularly in 
wet weather, and much labour in watering saved* 
Twenty trusses of long straw are sufficient for 1800^ 
feet of plants^, . 

532. Directions for. managing Strawberries in Sum^- 

mer, 

^X On the management of strawberries in June and 
. July, the future prosperity of them, greatly depends ;, 
amd if each plant has not been kept separate, by 
cutting off the runners, they will be in a state of 
confusion, and you will find three different sorts of 
plants. 

1 • Old plants, whose roots are turned black, hard,, 
and woody.. 

2. Young plants, not strong enough to flower. 

3. Flowering plants, which ought only to ben 
iherc;. and perhaps not many of them*. 



Before the time of Sowenng is quite Dver^-exa* 
mine them, and putt up every old plant wbich has 
not flowered ; for, if once they have omitted to flow^ 
cr, you may depend upon it they will never pro- 
duce any after, being too old, and past bearing ; 
but to be fully convinced, leave two or three, set a:, 
stick to them, and observe thera next ye^r. 

If the young plants, runners of last year, be too 
thick, take some of tliem away, and do not leave 
them nearer than a foot of the scarlet, alpines, and 
wood, and fifteen or sixteen inches of all the larger 
sorts ; and in the first rainy w<*ather in July or Au- 
gust, take them all up, and make a fresh plairtatioa 
with them, and they wiH be very strong plants for 
flo^yering next year. 

Old beds, even if the plants be kept single at 
theti' proper distance, examine, and poll all the ol(S 
plants which have not flowered. 

When the fn*it is nearly all gathered, examine 
them again, and cut off the cunners; but if you? 
want to make a fresh plantation^ leave some of the 
two first, and cut off all the rest. Thew stir up the 
ground with a trowel, or tiwree-proaged fork, and- 
in August they will be fit to transplant* 

If you have omitted in July do not fail in Augusty^ 
that the rangers may make good roots to be trans-^ 
planted in September, for, if later, the worms will 
draw them out of the ground, and the frost afterwards 
will prevent them from striking root ; the conse- 
quence of which is, their not flowering the nexti 
spring ; and you will lose a year.. • 

533. To culUvaie the common Gat^tn Rhv^^b* 

It is not enough to give it depth oiif[ood soil, but:. 
it must be watered in drought ; a«d in winier must 
be well covered with straw or dung. If this is act* 
tended to, your rhubarb will be s«>Hd when taken 
©ut of tjie^ ground.; and your fci^ch^n, if a warm 



et^LtuRE, Sic. or garden crcjps. 37^ 

one, when cut into large pieces, will soon fit it for 
use., 

534. Method of cultivating and curing Turkey Rhu- 
barb from Seed, 

The seed should be sown about the beginning of 
February, on a bed of good soil, {if rather sandy ,„ 
the better) exposed to an east or west aspect in pre- 
ference to the south ; a full sun being prejudicial to 
the vegetation of the seeds, and of the plants whilst, 
young. 

The seeds are best sown moderately thick, (broad' 
cast) treading them regularly in, as ii usual with, 
parsnips and other light seeds, and then raking the 
ground smooth. When the season is wet, make a 
bed for sowing the rhubarb seeds upon, about two 
feet thick, v^ith new dung Trom the stable, covering 
it near one foot thick with good soil.. The intent of 
this bed is not for the sake of warmth, but solely 
to prevent the rising of earth-worms, which in a 
moist season will frequently destroy the young crop. 

If the seed is good, the giants often rise too thick ; 
if so, when they have attained six leaves, they 
should be taken up carefully (where too close,) leav- 
ing the standing crop eight or ten inches apart : 
those taken up may be planted at the same distance 
m a fresh spot of ground, in order to furnish other 
plantations.. When the plants in general are grown 
to the size that cabbage plants are usually set out 
for a standing crop, they are best planted where 
they are to remain, in beds four feet wide, one row 
along the middle of the bed, leaving two yards dis-- 
tance betwixt the plants, allowing.an alley between 
the beds about a foot wide, for conveniency of weedr 
ing the plants. 

In the autumn, when the decayed leaves are re- 
moved, if the shoveling of the alleys are thrown 
over the crowns of the plants, it will be found ot. 
service, ^ 



•274 OARDENIVG*— BOTANt. 

535. Cultivation of Turkey Rhubarb by Offsttf* 

Slip off several offsets from the beads of large 
plants : set them with a dibble about a foot apart, 
in order to remove them into other bcd&, and in the 
autumn they will be in a thriving state. 

636. Method of curing Rhubarb. 

The plants may be taken up, either early in the 
springer in autumn, when the leaves are decayed, 
in dry weather if possible ; when the roots arc to be 
cleared from dirt (without wasbii^g,) let them be 
cut into pieces, and with a sharp knife freed from: 
the outer coat, and exposed to the sun and air for a 
few days, to render the outside a little dry. 

In order to accelerate the curing the largest' 
pieces, a hole mav be scooped out with a penknife; 
these and the smaller parts are then to be strung on 
packthread, and hung up in a warm room, where it 
is to remain till perfectly dry. Each piece may be 
rendered more sightiv by a common file, fixing it in 
a small vice during that operation ; afterwards rub 
over it a v^ry fine powder, which the small roots 
furnish in beautiful perfection, for this and every 
other purpose where rhubarb is required. 

An easier and simpler method of drying rhubarb 
is, after cutting the root into handsome pieces, to 
wrap up each separately, in one or raoi'e pieces of 
whitish-brown paper, and then to place them on 
the hob of a common Bath stove. Lemon and or- 
ange peel dry beautifully in this way. 

537. Proper Soil for the Culture of Turnips. 

Sandy loams, in good heart, are most favourable 
to their growth, though they will thrive well on 
strong loams, if they are not wet ; but on clayey, 
thin, or wet soils, they are not worth cultivating ; 
for though a good crop may be raised on such 
ground, when well prepared and dunged, more 



ctLTCRE, ilC. OF ^^ARBtN CRdPS. 276 

damage is done by taking off the turnips in winter, 
in poaching the soil, than the value of the crop will 
repay. 

^38« Preservation of Succulent Plants* 

.Green succulent plants are better preserved after 
a momentary immersion in boiling water, than 
otherwise. This practice has been successfully 
used in the [Reservation of cabbage, and other 

{)lants, dried for keeping ; it destroys the vegetable 
ife at once, and in a great degree prevents that de- 
cay which- otherwise attends them* 

4J39. Varioiis useful Properties of Tobacco to Gar^ 

deners. 

Tobacco Is employed for so many different uses, 
that there is no person possessed of a garden, but 
will find both pleasure and profit in the cultivation 
of it, especially as it is now at such a high price. 
''T he seed is very cheap, and may be procured of 
most nurserymen, and will answer the same end as 
the foreign for most purposes, and considerably 
cheaper. 

(The cultivation of tobacco, however, for eco- 
nomical purposes, is prohibited in Great Britain 
and Ireland.) 

Uses to toiuch it may be applied, — 1 . To Florists, 
for two elegant annual plants to decorate the bor- 
<]ers of the flower garden ; or, on account of their 
height, to fill up vacant places in the shrubberies ; 
or, when put into pots, they will be very ornamen- 
tal- in the green-house during the winter. 

2. Kitchen-gardeners would in a few days lose 
their crops of melons, if not immediately fumigated 
with tobacco smoke, when attacked by the red spi- 
der; and k is useful to destroy the black flies on 
cucumbers in frames. 

3r Fruit-gardeners. Wben peach and necta- 
me trees have their leaves curled up^ atid die shoots^ 



STB GARDENING ^BOTAxW. 

corered with smother flies ; or the cherry tre^s havife 
nhe ends of -the «hoots infested with the black dol- 
phin fly ; canvas, pack-sheets, or doubled mats, 
nailed before them, and frequently fumigated under 
^hem, will destroy those insects, 

4. Forcing-gardeners, who raise roses and kid- 
ney-beans in stoves, can sooTi destroy the green 
flies which cover the stalks and buds of roses, and 
the insects which appear like a mildew on kidney- 
beans, by the assistance of the fumigating bellows. 

5. Nurserymen. Whenlhe young shoots of stand- 
ard cherry trees, or any other trees, are covered 
%vith4he black dolphin flies, an infusion is made with 
the leaves and stalks of tobacco ; a quantity is put 
into an earthen pan, or small oblong wooden trough : 
one person holds this up, whilst another gently 
bends the top of each tree, and lets the branches 
remain about a minute in the liquor, which destroys 
them. 

6. Graziers, when their sheep are infected with 
the scab, find relief from making a sheep-water with 
an infusion of the leaves and stalks. Moles, when, 
only a few hills are at first observed, may probably 
be soon driven out of the ground, by fumigating 
ihcir holes. 

7. Herb tobacco is also greatly improved by 
having some of the leaves, when dried, cut with a 
pair of scissars, and mixed with the herbs in any 
tijuantity yoti may think proper, according to the 
strength you require, and save you the expense of 

rbuying tobacco. 

The herbs generally used for this purpose are . 
coltsfoot and wood betony leaves: the leaves and 
flowers of lavender, rosemary, thyme, -and some oth- 
ers of the like nature* 

(Several receipts, applicable to Gardening, may 
also be found under Chap. I.. Sect. vii. vm. and ix. 

•See also Vermin, infra,) 



il 



r 



CHAPTER XXVI. 
HEjiLTH. 



^The following iJhapter zcill be found to cantain somt 
receipts J which perhaps may appear to Infringe on 
the medical profess ion* It should however he un- 
dtrstood^ that only such popular articles are here 
introduced^ as may ^ in ordinary cases ^ afford help 
or mitigation^ until medical aid can be obtained ; 
and also in such cases ns require instantaneous as" 
sistance,^ 



SECT. I GENERAL RULES FOR THE 

PRESERVATION OF HEALTH. 

540. Avoids as much as possible J living ftearChui^ch 

YardSi 

The putrid emanations arisirig from church yards, 
-are very dangerous ; and parish churcbfes, in wbkh 
many corpses are interred, become iiUpregoated 
with an air so corrupted, especially in Spring, when 
-the ground begins ' to grow warm, that it is prudent 
<o avoid this evil as miich" as' possible, as it nlay 
be, and, in some cases, hks be^ii,oheWth6 chief 
sources of putrid fevers Miicfr titire so prevalent at 
that season. • • r^ . s, 

'■'..• • - ■ ' ' ♦ 
^41. Valuabh concise Muhtfor preserving Health 

,,..^ in fFint^(^.^^,., :^, ,•:>•:. 
Keep the feet from wet, and the head well defend- 
^ed when in b^ ; avoid too plentiful meals; drink 



moderately warm and generous^ but not inflaming 
Jiquors ; go not abroad without breakfast. Sbun 
?fhe Bight air as you would the plague; and letyouc 
bouses be kept from damps by warm fires. By ob- 
serving these few and simple rules, better health 
may be expected than from the use of the most pow- 
erful medicines. 

542. ^fhutiens in visiting Sick Rooms* 

JNever venture into a sick room if you are In^a 
violent perspiration (if circumstances require your 
bantinuance there for any time,) for the moment 
your body becomes cold, it is in a state likely to ab- 
'^orb the infection, and give you the disease, i^or 
visit a sick person (especially if the complaint be 
of a contagious nature) mth an empty stomachy 
as this disposes the system more readily to receive 
th^ contagion. In attending a sick person place 
yourself where the air passes from the door or win- 
dow to the bed of the diseased, not betwixt the dis- 
eased person and any fire that is in the room, as 
the beat of the fire will draw the infectious vapour 
,in that direction, and you^ould run much danger 
^m breatbirig in it. 

$43. Preventive of autiannal Rheumatism&* 

For ithe sake of bright and polished stoves, do 
tiot, when the weather is cold, refrain from making 
•fires. There is not a more usefd document for 
health to the inhabitantsrof this ciimate, than ^'Fol- 
Jow your .feelings.^' 

.S44. iTo promote Sleep. 

No. fire, fcandle, rush-li^ht, or jamp, shoidd be 
Icept burning, during the night, in a bed-room, for 
it not only vitiates the .air in a very considerable de- 
gree, but also disturbs and prevents the rest of those 
gnrb^e ^eep is .uoceasy^ particularly the aged* Im 
a dark apartment, sleep j;eaerally comes pa with- 



FRESERVATIO!^ OF HEALTH. S79^ 

dut much invitatioD ; whereas, any light in the a* 
partment stimulates the brain, and consequently^ the 
whole nervous system, and dispels any tendency 
to repose. 

5.45. The Ust^ of Tar Water in expanding the Lungn 

of Public Speakers^ ^'C. 

It has been found by the experience of many, 
that drinking tar water very much deterges and 
Dpens the lUngs, and thereby gives a very sensibly 
greater ease in speaking. A> auart of tar is to bie 
stirred six minutes in a gallon ot water ; but if there 
be somewhat less tar it may do as well, especially 
at first, to try how it sits on the stomach. Take 
about one-fourth of a pint, at four several times, at- 
a due distance from meals.. Begin taking it in the 
^ringfor about fourteen days, and continue it for 
a greater length of time, as occasionsmay require. 

I»46 . German Method of preventing IS^steric^* 

, Caraway seeds, finely pounded, with a small pro- 

fortion of ginger and salt, spread upon bread and 
utter, and eaten eyevy day, especially early in 
the morning, and at night, before going to bed, are 
successfully used in Germany, as a domestic remc- 
dy against hysterics. 

547.. Hints for ventilating Stage Coaclics* 

The- plan is to have a hole perforated through the 
centre of the roof of the carriage, of three inches 
diameter, with a tube or chimney, one or two inch- 
es long, above the top of the same ; into which tube 
a fine grating might be fixed, if necessary, to pre- 
vent the outside passengers putting any thing 
through. A slide might also be placed in a groove 
within the carriage, to enable the inside pas^ngers- 
lo close the tube at pleasure* 



..,^^ 



^0 HEALTir. 

548. Best Mode of avoiding the fatal Accidents of 

Open Carriages. 

Jumping out is particularly dangerous (the mo- 
tion of the gig communicating a different one to the 
one you give yourself by jumping.) which lend» 
very much to throw you on your side or head : ma- 
ny suppose it very easy to jump a little forward, 
and alight safe ; 'tiis supposition ; they will not find 
it so on trio). The method of getting out behind the 
carriage is the most safe of any, having often tried 
it, when the horse has been going very fast. — Per* 
baps it is best to fix yourself firm, and remain in tbe 
carriage. 

549. TbfumigcUe Foul Rooms* 

To one table-spoonful of common salt and a Iit« 
tie powdered manganese in a glass cup, add, fouc 
or five different times, a quarter of a wine glass of 
strong vitriolic acid. At every addition of the acid 
the vapour will come in contact with the malignant 
miasmata, and destroy them. 

550. To make a truly valuable Fumigation Powder » 

Nitre, fcMir pounds ; sulphur,, two pounds ; south- 
ern wood and Juniper- berries, of each three pounds ; 
tar and myrrh, a pound and a half. This was tried 
at Moscow in 1772, and tea malefactors, under sen- 
tence of death, were fumigated well with this in the 
Lazaretto, and were confined for three weeks in 
this abode, saturated with in/ection, made to sleepi 
with persons infected with the plague, and even 
dei)d,of it, and not one were irvfect^d, or made ill 
of the disease. The vapour arising from the de- 
Qompo^ition of nitre by the vitriolic acid is perfect- 
ly hamc^less to be breathed, and may be employed 
in every siiuation. This was used by M[r. M'Gre- 
g«r, after, the plan of Dr. Carmichael' Smith, who | 
relates, he lost, in ten weeks at Jersey, in putrid 



I 



PRKSERVATtON OF HEALTH. SSI 

ferer, fifty men from the 88th regiment ; botbeein- 
iiing the fumigation, not only the feyer was banish- 
ed the hospital, but that it changed the nature of the 
existing fever ; all the malignant symptoms di^p- 
peared, and of sixty soldiers ill of the fever not one 
died* 

It is now ^ascertained that common muriatic gas, 
or still better, oxymuriatic gas, is the best for de- 
stroying contagion, chiefly from superior expansi- 
bility. Both . are easily obtained ; place a gl)ass, 
porcelain, or salt-glazed earthenware vessel, in an 
iron pot filled with hot sand* For muriatic gas 
pour upon two parts of common salt (muriat of soda) 
placed in the glass vessel, one and a half parts of 
vitriolic acid (that is oil of vitriol ;) — ^for the oxy- 
genated Inuriatic, on a mixture of two parts of com- 
mon salt, with onepart of the black oxide of man- 
ganese in poivtier, pour two parts of vitriolic acid, 
diluted with its weight of water. The muriatic gas 
occasions no inconvenience, except rusting fire- iron 
utensils, which may be previously removed* The 
oxymuriatic should not be used where there is any 
danger of its being inhaled, as it is poison when 
breathed in any considerable quantity. Guytoa 
Morveau has invented an oxymuriatic fumigating 
bottle, which. wiJI retain its power^ if properly man* 
aged, for years. It is quite certain that the com- 
mon aromatic fumigating substances, sulphuric acid 
and the firing of gunpowder, are IneffiDctual. That, 
the action of the sulphurous and acetous acid is 
slow and incomplete, and that acetic acid, which 
sects iostaoitly and eflfectualiy on the fetid air, cannot 
be obtained, in sufficient quantity, and sufficiently . 
qenAcentraled, except at an enormous expense. 

Wl. To.rnak^ Balsamic and 4^t%rputri(i Finf^flr* 

T^he the best white wine vin^egar, a haio^Cuji q£ 
l^^f^Adef le^veii a^d Sowers, the s^^9,e (j^^nlily ^ 



I 



QBi HSALT0. 



sage leStves and flowers, hysop, ihyitie^ balm, saTO' 
ry ; a good handful of salt, and two heads of gar- 
Jic ; infuse these in the vinegar a fortnight or three 
weeks ; the longer the better ; and then it is found 
to be an excellent remedy for wounds. 



SECT. IL— ON THE EYE, 

552. General Rules for the Choice of Spectacles , and 
for the Preservation of the Sight. 

[From Mr, Manias Essay on Vision.^ 

The most general, and perhaps the best rule that 
can be given, to those who are invvant of assistance^ 
from glasses, in order so to choose their spectacles 
that they may suit the state of their eyes, is to pre- 
fer those which shew objects nearest their natural 
state, neither enlarged nor diminished, the glasses 
being near the eye, and that give a blackness and 
distinctness to the letters of a book, neither strain- 
ing the eyCj nor causing any unnatural exertion of 
the pupil* For no spedtacles- can be said to be pro- 
perly accomodated to the eyes, which do not pro- 
cure them ease and rest ; if they fatigue the eyes^ 
we may safely conclude^ either that we have no oc- 
t»sion for them, or that they are ill made, or not 
proportioned to our sight. 

Though, in the choice of spectacles, every one 
must finally determine for himself, which are the 
glasses through which he obtains* the most distinct 
vision; yet some confidence should be placed in the 
judgment of the^artist of whom they are purchased^ 
and some attention paid to his directions^ By try- 
ing many spettacles, the eye is fatigued, asthe pupil 
varies in size with every different glass, ana the 
eye endeavours to accommodate itself to everY 



\ 



ON THE ETE. 383 

change that is produced*. Henee, the purchaser ofK 
en fixes upon a pair of spectacles not the best a- 
dapted to his sight, but those which seem to relieve* 
him most, .while his eyes are in a forced and unna* 
tural state, and, consequently, when he gets- home,, 
and they are returned to their natural state, he finds 
what he has chosen failing and injurious to«his.> 
sight; 

553. Of Preservers^ and Rules for the Preservation. 

of Sight, 

Though it naay be im{)05sible to prevent the ab- 
solute decay of siglU, whether arising from age,;, 
partial disease, or illness,, yet, by prudence and 
good management, its natural failure may certainly, 
be retarded,. and the general habits of the eyes, 
strengthened, which good purposes will.be promot-?- 
ed by a proper attentioa to the^foUowJng maxims : — 

1. Never to sit for any length of time in absolute^ 
gloom^ or exposed to a blaze of light. The reasons 
on which this rule is founded, prove the impropri*. 
ety of going hastily from one extceme to the other, 
whether of darkness or of light, and sh^w us that a. 
southern aspect is- improper for those whose, sight., 
is weak and tender*,. 

2. To avoid reading small print. . 

5. Not to. read in the dark; nor, if the eyes be- 
disordered, by candle-light. Happy those who Jearn 
this lesson betimes, and begin to preserve their sight, 
before they are reminded by pain of the necessity, 
of sparing them.. The frivolous attention toaquar* 
ter of an hour in the evening,, has cost numbers the 
perfect and comfortable use of their eyes for many 
years ; the mischief is efiected imperceptibly, the 
consequences, are inevitable. 

4. The eye should not be permitted to dwell on 
glaring objects, more particularly on first waking ia 
a mproing y the sun should pot, of course, be suffer*^ 



284. IfEAtTB. 

ed to shine in the room at that time, and a moderate 
miantily or light only be admitted. It is easy to see 
that, for the same reasons, the furniture of a bed 
should be neither altogether of a white or red co- 
lour; indeed, those whose eyes arc weak would 
find considerable^ advantage in having green for the 
furniture of their bed-ehamben Nature confirms the 

npriety of the advice given in this rule; for the' 
^ It of the day comes on by slow degrees, an4 
green is the universal colour she presents to our. 
eyes. 

5. The long-sighted should accustom themselves - 
to read with rather less light, and somewhat nearer 
to the eye than what they naturally like, while those 
that are short-sighted should rather use themselves - 
to read with the book* as far off as possible ; by this 
means both would improve and strengthen their 
sight; while a contrary course will increase its. na-^ 
tural imperfections.. 

There is nothing which preserves the sight longer- 
than always using, both in reading and writing, that \ 
moderate degree of light which is best suited to the* 
eye; too little strains them, too great a quantity, 
dazzles and confounds them. The eyes are less, 
hurt by the want of light than by the excess of it -j , 
too little light never does any harm, unless theyare 
strained by efforts to see objects to which the de^ - 
gree of light is inadequate: but too great a quanta. 
ty has, by its own power, destroyed the sight. Thus; . 
many have brought on themselves a cataract, byv 
frequently looking at the sun, or a fire ; others have ^ 
lost their sight by being brought too suddenly from : 
an extreme of darkness into the bkze of the day* 
How dangurons the fooking on bright lumrnows ob- 
jects is to the sight, is evidentfrom its effects in those 
countries which are covered the greater -part of the - 
year with snow, where bliadness is exceedingly fre* 
q^ueat, and where the IraYelles is oUiged to. cover . 



e» THE EYE. ^^^ 

his eyes with crape, to prevent the dangerous and 
often sudden effects of too much light ; even the un- 
tutored savage tries to avoid the danger, by framing 
SL little wooden case for his eyes, with only two nar- 
row slits, A momentary gaze at the sun, will, for a 
time, unfit the eyes for vision, and render them in- 
sensible to impressions of a milder nature. 

The followiDg cases, from a small tract on the 
^ Fabric of the Eye," are so applicable to the pre- 
sent article, as to want no apology for their insertion 
here, though, if any were necessary, the use they 
will probably be of to those whose complainU arise 
from the same or similar causes, would, I presume^ 
be more than sufficient, , 

" A lady from the country, coming to reside m 
St, James' Square, was afflicted with a pain in her 
eye, and a decay in her sight. She could not look 
upon the stones, when the sun was upon them, with- 
out great pain. This, which she thought was one of 
the symptoms of her disorder, was the real cause 
©f it. Her eyes, which had been accustomed to the 
verdure of the country and the green of the pasture 
grounds before her house, could not bear the silent 
and unnatural glare of light reflected from the 
stones ; she was advised to place a number of small 
orange trees in the windows, so that their tops might 
hide the pavement, and be in a line with the grass. 
.She -recovered, by this simple change m the light, 
without the assistance of any medicine ; though her 
eyes were befoi^e on the verge of little less than 

blindness." , , , . , i . • r> n 

A gentleman of the law had hi^ lodgings in Fall 
Mall on the north side, his fcont windows were ex- 
posed to the full noon sun, while the back roorn^ 
having no opening but into a small close yard, sur- 
rounded with high walls, was very dark ; he wrote 
in the back room, an4 used to come from that into. 
the front room to breakfast, &c. His sight grew. 



280 HBALTff. 

Weak, and he had a constant pain in the balls of his 
eyes ; he tried \nsual glasses, and spoke with ocu- 
Usts, equally in vain. Being soon convinced, that 
the cohiing suddenly out of a dusky study, into the 
ftll blaze of sunshine, and that" very often in the 
day, had been the real cause of Kis disorder, he 
took new lodgings, by which, and forbearing to 
write by candle-light^ be was very soon cured. 

Blindness, or, at least, miserable weakness of 
sight, is often brought on by t];iese unsuspected 
causes. Those who have weak eyjes should there- 
fore be particularly attentive to such circumstances, 
since prevention is easy, but the cure may he diffi^ 
cult and sometimes impracticable. 

When the eye sensibly flattens, all delay is Jan*^ 
gerous ; and the longer those, who feel the want of 
assistance, defer the use af spectacles, the more, 
they will increase the failure of the eye ; there are" 
too many who procrastinate the use-of them, till at 
last they are obliged to use glasses often op twelve 
Inches focus, instead of those thirty-six or forty, 
which would otherwise have soited.diem ; thus pre* 
ferring a real evil to avoid one that is imaginary. 
Mr. Thomin mentions several deplorable cases of 
this kind, particularly one of a lady, who thi'ough 
false shame had abstained from wearing spectacles 
so long a time, that at last it was impossible to suit 
her, but with those adapted to eyes that have been 
couched. Whereas the instances are numerous 
of those who, by using glasses of a long focus at the 
first approaches of long-sightedness, have brought 
back their eyes to their natural sight, andbeenable- 
to lay aside their spectacles for years. 

55^. Comfort for those nearly Blind. 

Inscriptions on dark blue-gtazed paper, wriltea 
with whiie ink, have been found very legible by 
per&ons afiiicted with bad eyes, who have hadmaoy 



>.l^'' 



*^a: j? Hhi^ written io a strong plain hand for tlat pur* 
' * • pose. The ink is made with gun\ water and flake 
^^o'^" '•^^hite, finely powdered; it must ^be often shaken, 
^v ui even whilst you are writing, as the flake white very 
^^/^^ «oon subsides. A common pen will do very well for 

the writing. A bright yellow, or dark green j>aper, 

is likewise very easily read. 

555. To cure a -Bruise m the Eye. 

^-^/ Take conserve of red roses, and also a rotten ap- 
'^ple, put them in a fold of thin cambric, apply it to 
the eye, and it will draw.^he bruise out. 



SECT, m.— ANTIDOTES TO NOXIOUS SUB- 
STANCES AND ANIMALS. 

556. To prevent the Hffects of Poison of Lead on 

Painters^ Glaziers^ <^c. 

The physicians and suigeons of the Bath Hospi-> 
tal have ordered the ^following cautions to be made 
public, to be observed particularly by printers or 
compositors, plum^rs, glaziers, painters, and other 
artificers. 

To maiotain the strictest temperance respecting 

distilled spiritS)^ which bad better be alcocether for* 

borne. To.pay the strictest attention to deariliness^ 

and never^ ^hen it^caa be avoided, to daub their 

'hands <w^th paint, and pai^iciil^rly, or^never, to eat 

their meals, or go to rest, without washing their 

hands and face* Not -to eat or drink in the room or 

place wherein they work, and much less to sufl[erany 

food or drink to remain exposed to the fumes or dust 

•^of t^e metal in the rooms or ware-bouses. As the 

•clotfaes of persons in this line (painters particularly) 

are generally observed to be much soiled with the 

colours they '060} it is recommended to them to per* 



gBd HEALTH. 

form their work in frocks of ticking, which may te 
frequently washed, and conveniently laid aside, 
when the workmen go to their meals, and again put 
on when they resume their work. Every business 
which can, in these branches, should be performed 
with gloves on the hands ; and woollen or worsted 
gloves are recommended, as they may be often , 
washed, as they should always be after being soil- 
ed with paint, or even by much rubbing against thd 
metal. Caution is necessary in mixing, or even in 
unpacking, the dry colours, that the fine -powder ' 
does not get into their mouths, or be drawn in by ^ 
by their breath. A crape covering over the face 
might be of service, but care should be taken to 
turn always the same side towards the face, and to 
dean or wash it frequently. AH artificers should a- 
void touching lead when hot ; and this caution is 
especially necessary for printers or compositors, 
who have often lost the use of their limbs by hand^ 
ling the types when drying by the fire, after being 
washed. Glaziers putty should never be made or 
moulded by the hand. An iron pestle and mortar 
would wot k the ingredients together, at least equal- 
ly well, and without hazard. 

557. To prevent the baneful Effects of burning Char* 

coaU 

Set an uncovered vessel, filled with boiling water, 

over the pan containing the charcoal, the vapour of 

. which will counteract the deleterious fum^s, and 

while it keeps boiling will. make charcoal as safe 

as any other fuel. 

538. Topre-cent the Mischief arising from the Biie 

of a Mad Dog. 

Where the excision of the part bitten can be im- 
mediately performed, it is the best preventive of 
danger, or where the part can be burnt out. by the 




•«§l 






AKTTIDOTSS fO^^ISOKS. 899 



■^» *fi04 ^pplkatkm of a red hot iron, little danger is likely 
j«o.f ^.Ito nappen. Nothing else is at all to be depended on« 

i®7«'ars^59« To prevent Death from the bite of venemous 
in / "J' Animals^ 

/J^r^r From observations made hy'Dr. Bancroft, it is 
^W^, found that in South America, where the most vene- 
^j mous serpents abound, that a very tight ligature, in- 
stantly made after the bite between the part bitten 
and the trunk of the body, will prevent immediate 
danger, and allow time for proper means of remedy, 
either by excision of the wnole joint, just above the 
"ii^ature, or by topical applications iipon the part 
"bittern 

*For instance, if the bite should be upon the end 
^f the finger, a tight ligature of small cord should 
immediately be made beyond the next joint of the 
finger. 

If the bite is on any part of the handj the ligature 
should be made above the wrist by means of a gar- 
ter or cord, lapped several times round the arm and 
rendered as tight as possible by a small stick thrust 
betwixt the folds ofthe cord or garter, aod twiste3 
p round very hard, to prevent the circulation of the 
blood betwiit ihe part bitten and the other part of 
the body. Ligatures -of the same kind, applied by 
any one preseiit, or the man himself, will frequent- 
ty save a persons's life, where, by accident, an art- 
ery in any of the limbs is wounded, and the person 
would otherwise bleed to death before regular sur- 
gical assistance could be given. 

560. 3% cotmteraet the baneful Effects of Poison^ 

Whenever arsenic has been taken ititeFnaHy,TDy 
design or mistake, the bei?t medicine is sulphuret of 
potash (liver of sulphur) dissolved in water. A few 
scruples should be dissolved i'l half a pint or a pinft 
of water, and administered a Utde at a time/as the 
patient can betr it. 



li 



i$6h Cure for the Poison of the Deadly Mgki'^ 

Shade* 

' Crive the patknl an emetic as soon as possible, 
then let him drink Vinegar, Or lemon juice, about a 
pint, diluted in an equerl quantity of water, in the 
course of the day, and let hloi walk about to pre-* 
V9)it sle^p, which would most certainly {^rave fataL 

« » 

«ECT. rV.— MASAGEMENT, &c, OF THE 

TEETH. 

J562, Meihod of jcausing Children to cut their Teeth 

ta$ily0 

Feed them with an ivory spoon and boat, to be \ 

tuade thick, Round, and smooth at the edges : ivorjr 
feeing of the same hardness and texture as the jaws 
and tender teeth, 4he gums are not hurt or injured^ 
l)ut whea they are thus pressed facilitate the teeth 
in their progress ; whereas the silver implements, 
being of a &ird iexlure, and the edges made thin, 
bruise and wound the gums, and make a bard seam ^ 
80 that the teeth cannot make their way direct, ai^d 
if they do cut, come trregdarly ; so that the opera- 1 

tion of lancing is frequently absolutely necessary^ 
which of course must prejudice the teeth, as some 
are exposed before the time they are fit to cut, -^ 

By tnis method, fevers, convulsions, &c. owing to 
the teeth being not able to find their, way through 
^be hard seam, may be prevented* It muat be oftea 
<^erved, that children cry much when feedings as if 
ill, or disgusted with t)ieir food, whereas it is fre* 
quently owing to quite the contrary : for being 
hungry, and over eager to t^ke their food, they 
press bard through eagerness, on the boat and 
«poon| whichy being sba^^ bruises^ aad cuts the 



]IANAG£ll£NX OJT THE TEETBv ^1 

gamSf aod consequently causei& gtestt paio, which by. 
the ivory implements wiH be prevented* Those who 
cannot afford ivory may have horn or wood, or even? 
pewter ia greatly preferable to silver, provided the 
edges are made thick, round, and smooth. The wood* 
en sort, unless they are kept very sweet and clean* 
on that very account, are the least eligible, 9n4 
should be made, however of box, or such hard ^nd 
close textured wood as is the least liable to be taint- 
ed by the milky food*^ 

563. Ruk$ f^r tht Preservation of the Tetih and 

The teeth are bones, thinly covered over with a 
fine enamel, and this enamel is more or less substait'^ 
tial in different persons. Whenever this enamel is 
worn through by too coarse a powder, or too fre- 
quent cleaning the teeth, or eaten through by a 
scorbutic humour in the gums, the tooth cannot re- 
main long souxrd, any more than a filbert kernel 
can, when it has been penetrated by a worm* 

The teeth, therefore, are to be cleaned, but witii» 
great precaution, for if you wear the enamel off 
faster by cleaning the outside than nature supplier 
h within, your teeth will suffer more by this method 
than perhaps by a total neglect, A butcher's skew- 
er, or the wood with which they are made, must be 
bruised and bit at the •end, till with a little use it will 
become the softest and best brush for this purjpose, 
and in general you must clean your teeth with this 
brush alone, without any powder whatever; and 
once in a fortnight, or oftener, dip your skewer-- 
bruph into a few grains of gunpowder, breaking 
them first with the brush, and this will remove eve* 
ry spot and blemish, and give your teeth an incon- 
ceivable whiteness. It is almost needless to say 
that the mouth must be well washed after this ope- 
ration, for, besides the Oiecessity of so doinj^ the 



^93: msALTH. 

saltpetre, Szc. used* in the composilton of gunpo^r^^ 
der, w6uld, if it remains, be injurious to tne gums, 
&c. bOt has not, nor can have, any bad effect in so- 
short a tim.e. 

It t» necessary to observe, that very near the 
gums of people, whose teeth are otherwise good, 
there is apt to grow a false kind of enamel, both 
"within and without, and this false enamel or tartar,, 
if neg.l€cted, pushes the gums higher and higher, till 
it leavQs the fangs of the teeth quite bare, above the^ 
true enan^l, so that sound teeth are destroyed, be«. 
4rause the gum has forsaken that part which is not 
sheathed and protected in consequence of such ne« 

Select. This false enamel. must therefore be carefuU 
y scaled off, for. the gum will no more grow over the 
least particle of this false enamel,, than the flesh will 
heal over the point of a thorn. 

564. To prevent the Tooth-Ache. 

Clean the teeth well and regularly. 

5Q5* Easy, safe, and pleasant Method of remtyoing^ 

Tartar from the Teeth. 

Raspberries or strawberries. (particularly the lat- 
tjcr) frequently eaten, have been found, by experi- 
ence, to dissolve the tartarous concretions of the 
leeth ; and Linnaeus asserted, that in his own case,, 
they completely cured the gout; viz. the strawber- 
ry eaten plentifully.. 

b^Q* Tincture for the Teeth and Gums*, 

Mix six ounces of tincture of Peruvian bark with 
half an opnce of sal-ammoniac. Shake them well a 
few minutes, every tim^, before the tincture is used. 
The method of using it is, to take a tea-spoonful 
and hold it near the teeth ; then, with a finger dip- 
ped ih, rubbing the gums and teeth, which are aft- 
erward, to be washed with warm water.. This tinc- 
ture not only cures the tooth-ache, but preserves 



REHEDrfiS FOR tOCktU irrECTIONS. S93 

bod^ tbe teeth aod gums, and makes them adhere to 
Mch other* 

S67. TbofA powder* 

f^ To one ounce of fine powder of bark, and one 
^%iunce of gum royrrbi add three fourths of an ounce 
^ bole armenic^ mix these ingredients well toge« 
ther, and they will produce an excellent tooth pow- 
der, valuable in itself, and highly approved of by 
many gentlemen of the facuhy* 

^ Pound charcoal, as fine as possible, in a mortaPy 

Tnejt grind it in a mill, then well sift il, and apply a 

^ little of it to the teeth about twice a week, and it 

will not only render them beautifully white, but will 

idlso make the breath sweety and the gums firm and 

comfortable. 

If the charcoal is ground in a mortar, it is conve- 
nient to grind it in water, to prevent the dust from 
flying about. Indeed the powder is more convenient 
£or use when kept in water.^ 



■*»!■ > IM^I rt » 



SECT, v.— REMEDIES FOR VARIOUS LO*^ 

CAL AFFECTIONS. 

1^9. Easy and a^osi instafH€»Uoii$ Cure jhr the 

/ When the fit is on, take a new-laid egg, in a glass 
'of brandy, and go to bed immediately. 

Thisf very simple recipe has cured a great manyr 
after more celebrated preparation^ have proved un* 
successfuL 

$70» M* Uhmassel^s Aceotmt a/ his CW« f^r BuitM 

or Scalds* 

Take half a pound of alum in powder^ dissolve it 



Sd4 asAtf B« ' 

in a quart of water ; bathe the bum or scald with 
a linen rag wet in this mixture ; then bind the wet 
rag thereon with a slip of linen, and moisten the 
bandage with the alum water frequently, without 
removing it, in the course of two or three days. He 
relates, that one of his workmen who fell into a 
copper of boiling liquor where he remained three 
minutes before taken out, was immediately put into 
tt tub containing a saturated solution of akm in wa- 
ter, where he was kept two hours ; his sores wepe 
then dressed with cloths and bandages, wet in the 
above mixture, and kept constantly moistened for 
twenty-four hours, and that in a few days he wa& 
able to return to business. 

571. Remedy for Burn$» 

A little spirit of turpentine, applied to rccetil 
burns^^ili mitigate the pain, if not wholly remove 
ft. 

572. Another* 

A litde sweet oil and lime water, shaken toge* 
ther, makes a liniment, which, when kept applied 
to the part, will remove the pain» 

573. Efficacy of Vinegar in curing Burns and 

Scalds* 

The application of vinegar to burns and scalds is 
lo be strongly recommended. It possesses active 
powers, and is a great antisceptic and corrector of 
putrescence and mortification. The progressive 
tendency of burns of the unfavourable kind, or ill- 
treated, is to putrescence and mortification .^ Where 
the outward sKin is not broken, it may be freely us- 
ed every hour or two ; where the skin is broken, 
and if it gives pain, it must be gently used. But 
equal parts of vinegar and water, in a tepid state^ 
used fireely every ttixee or four hour», ore generally 



ft 



REMEDIBS FOR MCAt ArFECTIONS. 295 

the best applicatioDy.and the best rule to be direct- 
ed by. 

House«Ieek, either applied by itself, or mixed 
with cream, gives present relief in burns, and other 
external inflammation. 

574. Porter Plaster for Bruwcy. 

This simphy singular^ and safe remedy for bruises 
IS nothing more than a gallon of porter simmered in 
an earthen vessel, till, when cool, it will be of the 
consistence of a plaster.. This preparation was 
spread on an old glove, and applied round the ancle 
of a coachman, who was tlirovvn off his box, and 
miserably bruised* In three days it so effectually 
performed a cure, that coachee was enabled to re- 
mount his box, perfectly relieved from all swelling 
and pain. 

575. Easy Method df attracting Earwigs from the- 

Ear. 

A person lately having aa earwig crept into his 
ear, and knowing the peculiar fondness that insect 
has to apples, inunediately applied a piece of apple 
to the ear, which enticed the creature out, and there- 
by prevented the aferming consequences which 
might otherwise have ensued.. 

576. To kill Earwigs^ or other Insects^ which may ac^ 

cidenially have crept into the Ear. 

Let the person under this distressing circumstance 
lay his head upon a table, the side upwards that is 
afflicted; at the same time let some friend carefully 
drop into the ear a little sweet oil, or oil of almonds,. 
A drop or two wilt be sufficient, which will instant- 
ly destroy the insect, and remove the pain, however 
violent. 

* » » 

577. For a Pain in the Ear. 

OiJ of s)jeet almonds two drams, and oil of amber 



four drops ; apply four drops of this mizturey wheit 
.in pain, to the part aifected. 

578« Remedy for Deafness. 

Put a table-spoonful of bay salt into near half a. 
pint of cold spring wat^r, and after it has steeped 
therein twenty*four hours, (now and then shaking 
the phial), cause a small tea-spoonful of the same to 
be poured into the ear xaoht affected, every night 
when in bed, for seven or eight nights successively} 
observing to lay your head on the opposite side, by 
which the cure b generally completed. 

579 • For Chilblains^ 

, Soak them in warm brar> and water, then rub 
them well with i»ustard-seed flower; but it will be 
better if they are done before they break. 

580. To prevent Corns from growing on the feet* 

Easy shoes ; freq^jently bathing the feet in luke- 
warm water, with a little salt or pot-ashes dissolved 
in it. 

The corn itself will be completely destroyed hj 
rubbing it daily with a little caustic solution of pot* 
ass, till a soft and flexible skin is formecU 

581. Cure for Warts. 

The milky juice of the stalks of spurge, et of the 
common. fig leave, by persevering application, will, 
to a certainty, soon remove tliem- 

382. Ci>urt Fluster. 

Take of isinglass, half an ounce ; Turlington's^ 
(or Friar's) baham, a drachm ; melt the isinglass in 
an ounce of water, and boil the solution till a great 
part of the water is consumed; then add gradually 
to it the balsam, stirring them well together. After 
the mixture has continued a short time on the flre>. 
tak« the vessel off^ and spread the extended silk 



REMEDIES FOR hOCAV ATTECtlO^r^. 997 

with it, while it is yet fluid withheat^ usinga brusb^ 
for spreading it; 

583. Certain Cwe for the Cramp. . 

Ad effectual preventive for the cramp in the calves^ 
of the legs, which is a most grievous pain, is to 
stretch oat the heel of the legas far as possible,, at 
the same time drawing up the toes towards the bo- 
dy. This will frequently stop a fit of the cramp* 
after it has commenced ; and a> person will, after a^ 
few times, be able, in general, to prevent the fit 
coming on. though its approach be between sleep- 
ing and wakings Persons subject to this complaint 
should have^a board fixed at the bottom of the bed,, 
against which the footshould be pressed when the 
pain commences. 

584. Simple Remedy for the Cure of Lameness hy 
Contraction. From the Gmtleman^s Magazine^ 
July^ 1809^. 

** Many years ago, while I lived at Yeovil, ia. 
Somersetshire, my advice as a surgeon was desired, 
for a poor man^s child, a boy about nine years old, 
one of whose fegs was contracted more than when 
a person is sitting in a chair ; he could neither stretch 
it out, nor move it. I prescribed a relaxing lini- 
ment, of which currier's oil was one chief ingredi*- 
cat;.and. ordered the parts affected to be gently 
rubbed ; but it waaof no great service. I then con- 
sidered what farther might be done for his relief: 
and it came into my mind that the glovers of the 
town brought their kjd-skins, which were dry, stiff,, 
and hard, to be soft and supple as gloves, by rub- 
bing them with a liquor made of the yolks of. eggs 
and water; hereupon lordered the contracted parts, 
of his leg to be gently rubbed two or three times a- 
day with the egg liquor, and by. this means he soon 
recovered the perfect use of his I^g. The liquor I 
advi&e tp be thus made : take the yolk of £i m^. 



td6 B£ALTH. 

laid egg; let it be beaten with a spoon to the grcaf* 
est thinness, then, by a spoonful at a time, add 
three ounces of pure water, agitating the mixture 
that the egg and water may be weH incorporated, 
and let it be applied by gentle friction. 

" This remedy I have since advised in like cases^ 
with thelites happy success; and others to whom I 
have communicated it have found the same advan* 
tage in sim^ilar ca«es» I therefore, for the good of 
those aflKcted with lameness by contraction, trans* 
mit the abovet" 

JttmarL^^Fnciion is well known to be useful in 
such cases i and wiietber the cure i» performed by 
tl^ egg, c»rthe frietioa^ is of no moorent. 

58£« To make CUver^ or Goose-grass Ointment ^ 
remarkable for its salutary Effects in Cases of in* 
veterate Scurvy* 

To a pound of hoe's-lard melted, without spice 
or salt, put as much clivers as the lard will moisteni, 
and boil them together over a slow fire ; after stjrr, 
ring it till it becomes a little brown, strain it through 
a cloth ; and when cold take the ointment from the 
water that will romaia at the bottom, and it will be 
fit for use. 

586. Easy Method of curing the Sea Scurvy. 

The root of the garden carrot abounds in a nu* 
tritious saccharine juice, and is slightly aromatic 
These are desirable properties against the scurvy. 
To experience the good effects of these properties, 
the roots mmt be eatejn raw. There is nothing uo-* 
pleasant in thi« 5 on the contrary, it is what the 
common people often do by choice. These roots 
would keep well during the longest voyage, packed 
up in casks, having the interstices filled with sand.. 
Each sailor might oe allowed to eat one root every 
day, or every other day, according to the state of 
thQir health, aad the q^uantity of roots on board. 



HEH&mSS rOR LOCAI. AI* FBCT4[0NS. 28§ 

W7. Method for the spee^ Recovery tf the Use of 
the Foot or Hand that has been violently sprained* 

It may lead to a right managemeiU of the part 
dtrained, if w6 coasider <the efibcts of a strain whed 
it is very great. 

First* Such an extension of tb6 tendons andves* 
Sels of the muscles strained, that they cannot con-» 
tract themselves to their natural lengths* 

Second. That the great elongation of the vessels, 
tvhich deprives them of their contractile power, les- 
sens the diameter of theii* cav^ies, obstructs the 
Jfree course of the flsids through them, makes them 
swell and 1)ecome painful, and incapable of their 
actual service, or of being moved hy the at:ts of the 
will, or before the accident happened* 

These effects of violefrt sprains may lead us to 
conclude that the best remedies are those appUca* 
tions which may best atteauate their obstructed 
fluids, recover an easy circulation of them, and suf- 
ficiently contract the elongated vessels. 

For these purposes I advise vinegar, die rectified 
spirits of wine, such as are ^urnt in lamps, friction, 
and motion, in the foHo«ring manner, viz* 

Suppose the ancle sprained* 

First* Let it he fomented with vinegar^ a little 
warm, for four or five minutes at a time, onc'e every 
four hours ; this will pender the circulation of the 
fluids in the parts affected roore easy, and either 
prevent its swelling or promote its subsiding* 
' Second. Let the person staiwl three or four min- 
utes at a lime on both his feet in their natural pos- 
ture, and sometimes move the sprained foot, and 
sometimes when sitting with his foot on a low stool 
Ifet him move it this way and that, as he can bear 
it : this will contribute much to contract the over- 
stretched vessels, and to recover a due circulation 
of their fluids through them. 

Third* Let a gentle dry friction with a warm 



-r"- 



806 ntAUtu* 

^band be sometimes used to the parts afibcted, whick 
-will conduce much to the same ends. 

Two hours after every application of vinegar, let 
ihe parts aiffected be just wetted with rectified spirits 
of wine, and gently rubbed. 

By these means, persons to whom"! have advised 
them have recovered from the effects of very violent 
sprains in a few days, whenothers have been weeks 
in recovering, where different ways of management, 
such ^U5 continual resting of the strained foot, and 
disuse t)rtts motions, &c. had been Tecommended. 

688. To alleviate" (he Pain occasioned by the Siing 

of Gnats. 

The disagreeable itching occasioned'by the sting 
of these insects may be removed by volatile alkali, 
or immediately rubbing and washing the part af- 
fected with cold water. 

At night, to rub with fuHeFs earth ^nd wateries- 

sens the inflammation. 

• 

iJ89. Simple and effectual Cure for those who may 
Mccideyitally have swallowed a Wasp. 

Instantly, on theelarming accident taking place, 
put a tea-spoonful of common salt in your mouth, 
which will instantaneously not only kill the waspi 
but at the same time heal the sting. 

590. To cure the Sting of a Wasp or Bee. 

To the part affected, apply oil of tartar, or solu- 
tion of potash, and it will give instant ease ; as als0 
well bruised mallows. 

5^1. Another. 

Sweet oil, applied immediately, cnres the sting 
of wasps or bees ; and if the sting is left in the 
wound, it should, if possible, be extracted with 
hair pincers. 



y 



Remedies fo^ locai AirrBctiONSt S0\ 

-6^2. Another* 

The immediate application of ^au du Luce to 
many persons who have been stung by wasps, has 
caused the pain to subside in a few seconds, and 
after a few minutes all inflammation ceased. 

593. To cure the Sting of a Wasp or Bee. 

It has been found, by experience, that a good 
remedy for the sting of wasps and bees, is to apply 
to the part affected common culinary salt, moisten- 
ed with a little water. Even in a case where the 
patient had incautiously swallowed a wasp in & 
draught of beer, and been slung by it in the wind- 
pipe, the alatming symptoms that ensued were al- 
most instantly relieved by swallowing repeated 
doses of water, saturated with salt. The rubbing 
of the part stung, with a slice of onion, will give 
immediate ease. 

594. To prevent Sea Sickness, 

Drop a few drops of vitriolic aether upon loaf su- 
gar, and let it dissolve in your mouth ; or drink a 
few drops of aether, added to a solution of sugar, in 
water, to prevent its immediate evaporation. 

595. Remedy Jor « Sere Thro&t. 

^ Take rosemary tops, about a handful, put them 
' into a bason, and pour a pint of boiling hot ver* 
juice upon it ; then cover it over with a tin funnel^ 
the broad side downwards, and the -steam will come 
through the nozzle of the funnel ; then hold your 
mouth over the steam till it is gone down your 
throat. 

N. B. Be very careful that you do not put your 
mouth too close to the funnel, as it may scald it, 
but let the steam go down your throat as much as 
possible, and repeat it as often as necessary. 



AA 



302 JIEAtTB. 

596. A common Drink for, a Sore Throat. 

Take two ounces of Turkey figs, and the like 
quantity of raisins of the sun, and cut them dmall*; 
two ounces of French or pearl barley, boiled in 
three pints of spring water till it conaes to a quart, 
and then strain through a sieve. To be taken 
ivarm. Boil it slowly over a gentle fire. . 

597. Gargle for a Sore Throats 

Take half a pound of Turkey figs, put them into 
a quart of spring water, and let them simmer over a 
slow fire till better than one-half is wasted ; in the 
mean time, take a large lemon, cut it in slices, and 
between every slice put some Jbrown sugar-candy, 
and let it stand before the fire ^o roast ; ^hen strain 
the figs, and squeeze them through a coarse cloth, 
^nd put the juice of the lemon into it. 

N. B. dargle the throat with it warm, and the of- 
tener the better* 

598. 4 Receipt for a Cough. 

Take a glass of spring water and put into it a 
spoonful of the syrup of horehound, and mix with 
it ninex^r ten drops pf the spirit of sulpliur. 

599.. An excellent Styptic* 

The outside woof of silk- worms has been tried 
with great success by several people, more espe- 
cially by a lady, who, in mending a pen, cut her 
thumb to the tone, and through part oi the nail; it 
bled profusely ; but, by trying this styptic, and bind- 
ing up the wound, the hemorrhage stopped, and the 
wound healed in three days. 

^00. A new and useful Styptic. 

Take brandy, or common spirit, two ounces ; 
Castile soap two drachms, pot-ash one drachm ; 
scrape the soap fine, and dissolve it in the brandy; 
Ihen add the pot-ash^ and mix it well together, and 



tlE&IEDIES FOR £OCAL APrECTIONS. ^3 

kee]T it close stopped from the air in a vial. When 
you apply it, warm it in a vessel, or dip pledges of 
lint into it, and the blood will immediately congeal. 
Jt operates by coagulating the blood, both a con- 
siderable way within the vessels, as well as the ex- 
tra vasated blood- without, and restraining, at the 
same time, the mouth of the vessels. 

It forms a valuable embrocation, in cases of tu- 
mors, or swellings from bruises, by being frequent- 
ly rubbed on the part* It is also used in a similar 
manner for rheumatic pains. 

601. Infallible Remedy far stopping Bleeding of the 

jfose*' 

One ounce of sugar of lead, and half an ounce of 
green vitriol, to be triturated in a glass* mortar. ; add 
to these half a pint of spirits of wine. Of this com* 
position, young people, from ten to twelve years of 
age, are to take ten or twelve drops ; patients under 
twenty years, fourteen or fifteen drops, and grown per- 
sons, twenty drops, four times each, in a spoonful 
of wine or brandy. Some very interesting trials, ia 
the most obstinate cases, have been made witb this 
mixture, with the greatest success. 

Remark. — No salt oftead should be taken in/cr- 
nally without medical advice. It is a powerful 
drug ; that is, if the proper precautions or propor- 
tions are neglected or exceeded, it is a strong poi- 
son. The green vitriol can have no other effect 
than to decompose part of the sugar or acetite 
of lead ; that is, to convert the acetite, in part, into 
sutphatof lead, which is insoluble; and nearly all 
the green vitriol, or sulphat of iron, into acetite of 
iron. r > 

602. For curing Worms in the Human Body. 

, Take senna leaves, well bruised, half a pound; 
/ olive oil, twelve ounces \ digested together in a sand 



304 HEALTH, 

beat four or five days : then, by a strong expression^, 
force the oil from the faeces, which reserve by itself. ■ 

N. B. In the most obstinaite worm case, which 
eludes the force of mercurials, and baffles theef-- 
forts, of the most famous specifics, this successfully 
kills worms, grubs, and ascarids (which last kind, 
cause extreme itching,) and by stools expel them. 
- Dose :— ^one spoonful, fasting, and persevere in iu. 

6.03. To make an Improved Tinchtre of Bark* 

Red bark grossly powdered, one ounce 5 of snake 
root, in powder, six drachms ; saflVon, one drachm 
and 9 half; cochineal, ten grains-, orange peel, one 
ounce and a haJf. Steep the above articles in one 
pint of the best brandy, and you will have a tinc-^ 
turc equally good as the famous Dr. Huxham's. 

604. Observations on Leeches, and their Use, 

The geaeral demand for these useful reptiles, and 
the high price at which they are now sold, induces 
uAto give some particulars- on taking, preserving, 
and applying them, from a person who has attend- 
ed to this business. 

The large brown leech is the only kind in use ; 
they are in general from two inches to six, though 
they are capable of much greater extension and con- 
traction ; sometimes they are seen darting through 
the water with great swiftness, at which time they 
arc very long, at other times they will contract them-, 
selves into a form almost round. They are mnciv 
rounder in body than the horse leech (which^ 
contrary to common report, will not fasten to the 
human body,) with a degree of taper towards each 
end. The colour is black, and brown stripes on 
their backs ; the belly is covered with dark brown, 
interspersed with light brown spots. The method 
ofcatching' them usually employed in England, is 
agitating the waters where they are contained, which 
occasions them to float upon th^ sur/ace thereof,. 



\ 



OBSERVATIONS ON LEECHES* SJ)t 

when, with a net made for the purpose, ihey are se- 
cured. Other methods are employed, which would 
be tedious and unnecessary to relate. They are 
viviparous, bringing forth their young with all their 
power, capable of acting in every respect in which 
this animal is distinguished. The time of fecundi- 
ty is in the months of April and May, the latter end 
of August and September ; — the number of young 
ones a single leech brings forth in one year can 
hardly be ascertained, though it is very numerous ; ' 
for when the leech catchers rob a pona of all large 
enough for use, if nothing happens to obstruct fe- 
cundation, in two years afterwards they wiH find it 
largely stored with abundance of fine leeches, and ' 
a much increased number of small ones ; this is 
particularly found to be the case, from the method 
which some country people have adopted to obtain 
teeches as an exclusive property. In order to this, 
they make a pond, near their house, about three 
feet deep, twenty wide, and thirty long; if they 
cannot conveniently form one with* a sandy bottom, 
they make the pond a little deeper, in which they 
deposit a few loads of sandy earth. In this pond, 
when filled with water, they put their leeches about 
April, and without any further trouble or expense, 
they obtain, at the proper season, a large supply 
of leeches. . 

Leeches may, with care, be preserved healthy 
and good for years in pans : during the summer 
season not more than two hundred shoo Id be kept to- 
gether ; in winter, double that number may with 
equal propriety. The vessel they are kept in should 
be an earthen pan, that will contain about three 
g8^ lions of water, which should not be more than 
half filled with water; fori have foirrid, by experi- 
ence, tbat it is congenial to their, nature to have a 
place out of the water, which they may retreat to 
at pleasure ; this is proved by tj>eir often hanging 

AA 2 . 



306 . H&ALtlf. 

in clusters round the top of the pan« From May 
till September their water should be changed, at 
least, every other day ; in winter every fourth day. 
The best water to keep them in is spring water, as 
being least disposed to putrescency. I have of late 
put a little moss amongst leeches, which practical 
would recommend, for they are very much enamour- 
ed with it, perhaps from its resembling, in some 
measure, their native weeds ; they creep through 
it, and by that means clear themselves of slime, 
which in the warm weather accumulates around 
them, and, unless removed by timely changes of 
water, will be productive of disease. During hot 
weather thejf should be kept in as cool a place as 
possible, and. in the winter season place them where 
the water may preserve that degree of warmth it 
possesses in summer. When you put fresh wate» 
to them, daring the cold weather, it should be de- 
prived of that intense coldn'ess which it possesses 
at that season of the year, by warming it in the 
smallest degree.- . The leech, as has been before 
said, feeds upon insects in its native waters, but 
may be, as. above hinted, kept in water only fop 
years, though they dwindle by keeping ; they re- 
main healthy) and will take widi as much avidity as 
those recently taken from the waters, provided- 
they are well attended to, with respect to changir^ 
their water agreeably to the rules laid down. 

The mode which I have found, by copious expe-v 
rience, to be infinitely the best (being attended 
with quickness, certainty, and efficacy,)r is as ioU 
lows : Let the part be first carefully washed cleaa 
with warm milk and water ; if very, dirty and re- 
quires it, a little soap may also be used ;. when the^ 
part is thus washed and wiped dry, rub over the 
part a little milk, then see that your leech is wiped 
clry with a smooth cloth, which being done, take it 
iKith your fingers by the middle, and apply its 



OBSERVATIONS OS LEECHES. 307 

snouth to the very spot you wish ; you will, per* 
haps, find it, at first, twist and extend itself in you? 
fingers, and theix wish to attach itself to some con- 
trary part ; but as repeatedly as it extends itself 
around, or attempts to fix upon a wrone situation, 
you must as repeatedly draw it back and re-apply 
it to the proper part; by so doing you will find it 
will presently seize the precise &pot wished for; 
^ben you find this yeu must not hastily let the leech 
go, for they wiU sometimes seem to seize the part 
with great avidity, and- io a few seconds let go their 
hold ; but when you are convinced the leech has. 
good hold, you may then let go, and leave it to the. 
employment it enjoys-.^, 

I here find it necessary to remark, that the small- 
end of the leech is the head, whereas I have repeat-*^ 
edly observed^ th^it the greater part of the people, 
from the tailof the leech being much broader thaa 
the head, mistake the one for the other, and there- 
by occasion themselves a great deal of fruidess la- 
bour. When the animal has fastened himself he 
generally expands the tail, and sometimes attaches^ 
it very firmly to another part of the skin, but with- 
out the least pain to thepart; this hold, I have ob- 
served; the leech does not quit till it is chargedl. 
with blood, and then drops off all at once. 

I. would here observe, that the quantity of blood- 
the leech imbibes, is in general insufficient to an- 
swer the piirpose : thereforcj when the leech comes 
ofi*, it is necessary to have a« bason of warm water, 
and a spunge or, rag,, to keep bathing the orifice, in 
order to encourage the bleeding for an hour or two ; 
if the orifice seem disposed to- bleed any longer than 
wished for, apply a piece of lint, three or four times 
-double, and bandage it up. 

905. Singularly useful Properties ofGarlicm 
The smell of garlic, which is formidable tomanjf 



SOB INK. 

ladies, is, perhaps, the most infallible remedy in the 
world against the vapours, and all the nervous dis- 
orders to which women are subject. Of this (says 
St. Pierre) I have had repeated experience. 

606. Tht Usefulness of two common Plants. 

Every plant fn the corn-field possesses virtues 
particularly adapted to the maladies incident to the 
condition of the labouring man. The poppey cures 
the pleurisy, procures sleep^ stops haemorrhages, 
and spitting of blood. Poppy seeds form an emul«- 
sion similar to that from almonds in every respect 
when prepared in the same manner. They also 
yield, by expression, fine salad oil, like that from. 
Floreitce. The blue bottle is diuretic, vulnerary, 
Gordial, and cooling ; an antidote to the slings of 
venomous insects^ and a remedy for inflammation 
of the eyes. . 



CHAPTER XXVIL 



607- To make Ink. 

To three quarts of water add three pints of whit^^ 
wine vinegar ; fifteen v ounces of blue 'galls sltghtly-- 
bruised ; let these- stand near a fire six days ; then 
put in six ounces of green copperas^ and seven 
ounces of gum arabic finely pounded ; permft the 
whole to remain near a fire six days more, and be- 
frequently stirred up ; strain tile liquor through a 
fine cloth, atid bottle it up for use. 

Remark,— The vinegar improves the colour of the- 
itjk, but it has the troublesome effect of destroy- - 



I 



ing the pen vei^ quickly. Pronet says, the best ink 
is made by digesting the infusion of galls in pure 
water, upon iron. That process certainly makes a 
very good ink. The proper proportion of gum is of 
course added. 

608. To make One Gallon of Black Writing Ink, . 

^N/' Intaa glazed stone jar of pitcher put one pound 
' of Aleppo galls, slightly bruised ; then add one gal- 
lon of rain water, nearly of a boiling heat ; let these 
&tand together for fourteen days upon the kitchen 
hearth, or moderately warm ; after that time add 
four ounces of green copperas or sulphate af iron, 
four ounces of logwood chips or shavings, one ounce 
of alum, one ounce of sugar-candy, and four ounces 
of gum arable or senega!. Let the wKole remaia 
ten or twelve days longer in a mod^te heat, the 
mouth of the vessel slightly coverea with paper« 
Stir the ingredients well witb a stick twice a day 
during the whole time; then strain off the ink 
through linen or flannel, bottle it, pour a little 
brandy on the top of the ink in each bottle, then cork 
xYjrvci well, and keep them for use in a place of tem- 
perate heat. 

This ink may be depended upon as excellent, 
durable,, and preserving the writing all a deep 
black. 

N.. Bi The best galls for the purpose are those 
which are dark coloured, heavy, and free from grub 
holes^u 

60^. Red Ink. 

.^^^^ Take a quarter of a pound pf the bpst Brazil 
^^ wood, (get it in the log if possible, and rasp or shave 
it yourself)' one ounce of cream of tartar, and onp 
ounce of alum ; boil these ingredients in a quart of 
•clear water till half is consumed, then add to the. 
ink, when filtered hot, one ounce of gum.ara.bic a,nd: 
one ounce of fine sugar. 



wN 



10 INK, 



\ 



\ 



A little salt added will prevent it from becoming 
mouldy. 

610. To prevent Ink from moulding. 

Half-dozen cloves, bruised with gum arabic, are 
to be put into the bottle. If a very fine ink is want- 
ed, white wine, or vinegar and water, should be us- 
ed instead of water alone. 

611. To make Indian Ink. 

Put six lighted wicks into a dish of oil; hang an 
iron or tin concave cover over it so as to receive all 
the smoke; when there is a sufficient quantity of 
soot settled to the cover, then take it off gently with 
a feather upoa a sheet of paper, and mix it up with 
gum tragacanth Jp a proper consistence, 

N. B. The clearest oil makes the finest soot, con- 
sequently the best ink*^ 

612. To make China Ink. 

Take dried black horse-beans, burn, them to a 
powder, mix them up with gum arabic water, and 
bring them to a mass ; press it well and let it dry. 

613. Substitute for Indian Ink. 

Boil' parchment slips, or cuttings of glove leather, 
in water, till it forms a size, which, when cool, be- 
comes of the consistence of jelly ; then, having, 
blackened an earthen plate, by holding it over the 
ftame of a candle, mix up, with a camel hair pen* 
cil, the fine lamp-black thus obtained, with some of 
the above size, while the plate is still warm. X'^'s 
black requires no grinding, and produce an ink of 
the very colour, which works as freely with the 

fiencil, and is as perfectly transparent as the best 
ndianinfc; it possesses the advantage of furnish- 
ing artists with a substitute for that article, which 
may be prepared in situations where it might bo- 
difflcuit to obtain the ink itself, . 



rNK. 311 

614. German Black for Printer's. 

Take the lees of port wine, dry and burn them ; 
add thereto good ivory black, the stones of cher- 
ries, plums, or other stone fruit, burnt in close ves- 
sels, and fine soft charcoal made from burnt wil- 
low ; grind the whole well together into one mass, 
from which the best printing ink may be formed. 

615. Permanent Writing Ink, 

As common wrfting ink is susceptible of being 
effaced by oxygenated muriatic acid, and as the 
^knowledge of this fact mayi)e abused to very frau- 
dulent purposes, the following composition for inks, 
absolutely indestructible, is recommended to the 
notice of the -curious. 

Boil one ounce of Brazil wood, jind three ounces 
of nut-galls, in 46 ounces of water, till they shall 
"he reduced to thirty ounces in all. Pour this decoc- 
tion, while it is yet hot, upon halt an ounce of sul- 
phate of iron, or martial vitriol, a quarter of an 
ounce of gum arabic, and a quarter of an ounce of 
white sugar. After these substances are dissolved, 
add to the solution one ounce and a quarter of indi- 
go, finely pulverized with three quarters of an ounce 
of lamp-black, very .pure, of smoke black, f)revi- 
.^usly diluted .in one ounce of the best brandy. 

The following receipt is still more simple : Boil 
one ounce of Brazil wood with twelve ounces of wa- 
ter, and half an ounce af alum ; continue the ebulli- 
tion till the liquid mixture shall have been reduced 
.to eight ounces; then add an ouoce of the black 
,oxide of manganese, which has been reduced by 
decantation to extreme fineness, and, in mixture 
with it, half an ounce of gum arabic. 

Remark, — The chief advantage of this ink (said 
to be proposed by Schever) is, that it is in part a 
printer^s ink : the black oxide of manganese, and 
/he lamp-black, not being affected bjr acids, and 






3 i 2 INK. 

the indigo in powder but-elightly, so that they must 
be effaced by rubbing or washing off, and not by 
solution. The ink, however, is not absolutdy indes- 
tructible, nor equal to the common indelible ink, 
which may be used on paper, as well as silk, linen, 
and cotton cloths. 

"616. Permanent Red Ink for marking Linen. 

This useful preparation, which was contrived by 
the late learned and ingenious Dr. Smellie, of Ed- 
dinburgh, ^ho was originally a printer in that city, 
may be used either with types, a hair ,pencil, or 
even with a pen. Take half an ounce of vermilion, 
and a dram of salt of steel 5 let them be finely levi- 
gated with linseed oil, to the thickness or limpidity 
required for the occasion. This has not only a very 
good appearance ; but will, it is said, be found per- 
fectly to resist the effects of acids, as well as of all 
.alkaline leys. It may be made of other colours, by 
substituting the proper articles instead of vermil- 
ion. 

'617. To make Sympathetic, or Invisible Ink. 

Let quick-lime be quenched in common water, 
and while quenching let some red orpiment be- add- 
ed to it, (this, however, ought to be done by placing 
warm ashes under it for a whole day), and let the 
liquor be filtered and preserved in a glass bottle 
well corked. Then boil litharge of gold, well pound- 
ed, for half an hoar, with vinegar, in a brass vessel, 
and filter the whole through paper, and preserve it 
also in a bottle closely corked. If you write any 
thing with this last water, with a clean pen, the 
ivriting will be invisible when dry; but if it be 
washed over with the first water, it will become in- 
stantly black. And it is wonderful, that though 
sheets of paper without number, and even a board, 
bo placrd between the invisible writing and the se 



« "-» 



PAINT— PAINTINGS. 313 

ttmd liquid, it will have t^ same effect, and turn 
the writing black, penetrating; the wood and papec, 
without leaving any traces of its action, which is 
certainly surprising. 

^18. To make Stuchum^ or Perpetval Ink of tht 
Ancients^ for writing on Stone. 

This ink, or stuchum, as it was formerly called, 
is made by mixing about three parts pitch, with one 
^f lamp-black, which are to be incorporated by 
melting the pitch into the lamp-black. This compo- 
sition they used in a melted state, by filling up the 
letters previously marked on stones, which would, 
unless any extraordinary violence was used, endure 
as long as the stone itself. 



CHAPTER XXVIII. 

PAIKT— PAINTINGS— MANAGEMENT OF 

COLOURS. 



%19. Directions for painting Rooms^ Rails, 4r€. 

Red lead must be ground with linseed oil, and^ 
used very thin, it being the priming or first colour- 
ing ; when used, some drying oils must be put to it, 

620. To prepare drying Oil and Paint. 

Put a Scots pint (two English quarts) of linseed 
oil in a pan, with a pint of burnt umber ; boil it gent- 
ly two hours ; prepare this without doors, for fear ot- 
fire in the house ; when it settles it will be fit for 
use; pour the dear off, and use it with the white 
lead ; the dfegs will do for the red lead. 



BB 



B14 FAINT PAINTINGS* 

j621. Tor the second Primmg* 

Take a hundred weight of white lead, with ao 
equal quantity of Spanish white in bulk but not in 
weight; grind them pretty stiff With linseed oil; 
when you use it, put in some of the a-bove-mention- 
ed drying oil, with a little oil of turpentine ; but do 
not lay on this till the first coat is very dry. 

622. To make Putty andjinish Painting. . 

Mix a quantity of whitening, very stiff, with lin- 
seed oil, and drying oil, equal quantities ; when it 
cannot be wrought with the hand, more whitening 
must be added, and beat up with a mallet, till it is 
suffer than dough; when the second priming is dry, 
stop all holes ^nd cracks with the putty ; when hard 
and dry lay on the last paint, viz. grind the best 
white lead very stiff with linseed oil ; when used put 
some of the drying oil to it, and oil of turpentine ; 
this will preserve out-works a long time. 

.N. B. For rooms and places within doors, your 
own fancy must direct you to the colours, only pro- 
ceed as above. 

623. To prepare Blue Colour from Verdigris. 

Take sal-ammoniac and verdigris, of each six 

.ounc<)s ; mix them well together with water of tar^ 

tar to a paste ; put this into a vial, and stop it close ; 

Jet it stand for several days, and you will have a fine 

blue colour. 

r624. Lead-coloured Paint for preserving Iron* 

Take a small quantity of common litharge, and 
place it over the fire in a shovel ; afterwards, when 
sufficiently warm, scatter over it a little flower of 
brimstone, which will instantly convert it into a 
blackish colour,, and which, when ground in oil, 
makes a good dark lead colour. It dries quick, gets 
remarkably hard, and resists the weather better thas 
^ny other lead colour. 



3IAKA4>£M£NT OF COLOyR^. 315^ 

025. Mx:lhod of preparing a cheap Substitute far Oil' 
Painty as durable as that prepared with Oil^ and 
free from any bad StnelL 

Take fresb curds, and bruise the lumps on a- 
grindiii^-slone, or in an earthen pan or mortar, with: 
a spatula. After this operation, pi:t them into a pot 
with an equal quantity of lime well riicnched, and- 
become thick enough to be kneaded ; stir this mix- 
tiire well, without adding water, and yo': will soon- 
obtain a white coloured fluid, which may be applied- 
with as much facilitv as varnish, and which dries ve- 
ry speedily. But it must be employed the same 
day, as it will become too thick the aa^ following. 

Ochre, Armenian bole, and all colours which 
hold with lime, may be mixed with jt, according to 
the colour which you wish to give the wood; but 
care must be taken that the addition of colour to the 
first mixture of curds^and lime may contain very 
little water, else the painting will be less durable. 

When two coats of this paint have been laid on, 
it may be polished with a piece of woollen cloth or 
other proper substance, and it will become as bright 
as varnisD. It is certain that no kind of painting 
can be so cheap ; but it possesses, besides, other 
advantages ; in the same day two coats may be 
laid on and polished, as it dries speedily and has 
no smell. If it be required to give it. more durabili- 
ty in places exposed, to moisture, do over the paint- 
ing, after it has been polished, with the white of an 
egg. This process will render it as durable as the 
best oil painting. 

626. Cheap black Paint from earthy and mineral 

Sid)stances, 

Take of the blueish marly stone, found in copper, 
tin, and lead mines, (principally in the copper 
mines) and of iron stone, &nd of fine blue marie of 
fijate, and of ochre, equal quantities, and' reduce 



316 PAINT PAINTINPSS. 

them by grinding or pounding to a very fijic powder. 
To any given quantity of the above-mentioned ma- 
terials, when put together, add one eighth of their 
weight of lamp-black, so tliat there will be revert 
eighths of the eart-hy or mineral substances, and one- 
eighth of the lamp-black. This produces a superior 
black paint for wood, iron, canvas, or any other 
thing for which paint is used ; but for the purpose 
of using such paint, it must be ground (in the usual 
manner of grinding colours) with oil, as commonly 
done by colourmen or painters (their boiled oil is 
to be preferred) ; and the same when mixed and 
made up as other paint generally is, may be used 
with the brush as in common practice. Ivory black 
may be substituted, but for general purposes the 
lamp-black is preferable. 

627, To make brozvn Paint, 

Take green muriate of copper, diluted with about 
ten parts of distilled or rain water; then pour in 
prussiate of lime until the whole is precipitated ; the 
prussiate of copper is then to be well washed, with 
cold water, on the filter, and to be dried without • 
heat. 

628. Composition for preserving Weather Boardings 
Pailing^ and all other Works liable to be injured b%i 
the Weather. 

Lime, it is well known, when well burnt, will 
soon become slacked by exposure in the open air, 
or even if confined in a situation not remarkably 
dry, so as to crumble of itself into powder. This is 
called air-slacked lime, in contradistinction to that 
which is slacked in the usual way, by being mixed 
with water. For the purpose of making the present 
useful composition to preserve all sorts of wood- 
work exposed to the vicissitudes of the weather, 
take three parts of this air-slacked lime, two of wood 
a&hes, and one of fine sand : pass them through a 



manageme:;t ofcolotjrS. 317 

fi/ie sieve, and add as much linseed ojl to the com- 
position as will bring it to a proper consistence for 
working with a painter's brush. As particular care 
must be taken to mix it perfectly, it should be 
ground on a stone slab with a proper muller, in the 
same manner as painters grind their white lead, 
&c. ; but, where these conveniences are not at hand, 
the ingredients may be mixed in a large pan, and 
well beat np with a wooden spatula. Two coats of, 
this composition being necessary, the first may be 
rather thin ; but the second should be as thick as 
it can conveniently be worked. This most excellent 
compostion for preserving wood when exposed to 
the injuries of the weather, is highly preferable to 
the customary method of laying on tar and ochrow. 
It would be much improved by melting on€-half of 
coal tar with the linseed oil.. 

C29. To prepare the h'cavtlfid Colour called J^aplcs 

Yellow*. 

The beautiful yellow. colour, commonly sold un- 
der the name of Naples yellow, is well known.. 
Those who buy it are often imposed upon, by being. 
told that it is a substance produced from Mount" 
Vesuvius ; but it is now known to be a composition 
by art. The process is composed of the following, 
substances, viz.. one pound of antinlony, one pounds 
and a half of lead, half an ounce of alum, and the 
same quantity of common salt. The antimony and' 
lead should be calcined together, afterwards the 
other ingredients added,, and then the whole mix- 
ture undergoes a second calcination. 

630. Another Metlwd^ 

To procure this colour, take twelve ounces 6P 
^hite lead, three owices of diaphoretic antimony, 
alum and sal-ammoniac, of each one ounce. All these 
must be ground together dry, upon a levigating 

be2 



318 PAINT^— PAINTINGS, 

Stone ; they must then be put into an open crucible, 
and exposed to a gentle fire for some hours ; the fire 
is afterwards to be increased durins: a certain time r 
and finally the mixture is to continue three hours in 
a degree of heat sufficient to keep the crucibk red 
hot. The mass will then be found to have acquired 
a beautiful yellow colour. If it is wished to be more 
of the colour of gold, a greater quantity of diaphor- 
etic antimony and sal-ammoniac must be added to | 
the other ingredients. 

It is probable that, instead of diaphoretic anti- 
mony, the grey calx of antimony might be made 
use of. 

63 1 • Mrs* Hooker^ s Method of preparing and apply- 
ing a Composition for Painting in Imitation of the 
»^ncient Grecian Manner, 

Put into a glazed earthen vessel four ounces and 
a half of gum-arabic, and eight ounces, or half a 
pint (wine measure) of cold spring water ; when 
the gum is dissolved, stir in seven ounces of gum- 
mastic, which has been washed, dried, pickled, and 
beaten fine. Set the earthen vessel containing the 
gum- water and gum-mastic over a slow fire, contin- 
ually stirring and beating them hard with a spoon, 
in order to dissolve the gum-raastic ; when suffici- 
ently boiled, it will no longer appear transparent, 
but will become opaque and stiff, like a paste. As 
soon as this is the case, and the gum- water and 
mastic are quite boiling, without taking them off the 

•' fire, add five ounces of white wax, broken into small 
pieces, stirring and beating the different ingredients 
together, till the wax is perfectly, melted, and has 
boiled. Then take the composition off the fire, as 

. boiling it longer than necessary would only harden 
ihe wax,.aiid prevent its mixing so w^ell afterwards 
yi'\\h water. When the composition is taken off the 
fire, and ia the glazexl earthen vessel it should be 



MANAGEMENT OF COLOURS. 319 

beaten hard, and whilst hot (but not boiling) tilix 
with it, by degrees, a pint (wine measure) or six- 
teen ounces more of cold spring water: then strain 
the composition, as some dirt will boil out of the 
gum-mastic, and put it into bottles ; (he composition, 
if properly made, should be like a cream, and the 
colours when mixed with it as smooth as with oil. 
The method of using it, is to mix with the composi- 
tion, upon an earthen pallet, such colours, in pow- 
der, as are used in painting with oil, and such a 
quantity of the composition to be mixed with the 
colours as to render them of the usual consistency 
of oil colours; then paint with fair water. The co- 
lours, when mixed with the composition, may be 
laid on either thick or thin, as may best suit your 
subject ; on which account, this composition is ve- 
ry advantageous, where any particular irsnsparen- 
cy of colouring is required ; but in most cases it an- 
swers best if the colours be laid on thick, and they 
require the same use of the brush, as if painting 
with body colours, and the same brushes as used in 
oil painting. The colours, if ground dry, when 
mixed with the composition, may be used by put- 
ting a little fair water over them; but it is less 
trouble to put some water when the colours are ob- 
served to be growing dry. In paijUing with this 
composition, the colours blend without difficulty 
when wet, and even when dry the tints may easily 
be united by means of a brush, and a very small 
quantity of fair water. When the painting is finish- 
ed, put some white wax into a glazed earthen vessel 
over a slow fire, and when melted, but not bollirig, 
with a hard brush covef the painting with the wax, 
and when cold take a moderately hot iron, such as is 
used for ironing linen, and so cold as not to hiss, if 
touched with any thing wet, and draw it lightly over 
the wax. The painting will appear as if under a 
cloud till ^ wax is perfectly cold ; as also, what- 



320 PAINT PAINTINGS. 

c\'cr the picture is painted upon is quite cold; but 
if, when so, the painting sho"tild not appear suflBai- 
ently clear, it may lie beld before the fire, so far 
from it as to melt the wax but slowly ; or the wax 
may be melted by holding a hot poker at such a dis- 
tance as to melt it gently, especially such, parts of 
the picture as should not appear suflSciently trans- 
parent or brilliant; for the oftener heat is applied 
to the picture, the greater will be the transparency 
and brilliancy of colouring ; but the contrary effect 
would be produced if too sudden or too great a de- 
gree of heat was applied, or for too long a time, as, 
it would draw the wax too much to the surface, and 
might likewise crack the paint* Should the coat of 
wax put over tiic painting, when finished, appear in 
any part uneven, it may be remedied by drawing a. 
moderately hot iron*- over it. again, as befonc-m^n*. 
tioned, or even by sc leaping the wbx with.a.fiLnifc ;. 
and should the wax, by too great j^r too Jong, an ap-- 
plication of heat, form into huhbles at, particular,- 
places, by applying a poker hoated, or.evcji a to- 
bacco-pipe made hoty the bubbles would subside ; . 
or such defects may be removed by drawing any. 
tiling hard. over, the,- wBXj.wihich would close any, 
sjBall cavities. 

When the picture i$ cold,* rub it with a fine linen-x 
cloth. Eaintings may be executed in this manner, 
upon wood (having 6r«t pieces of. wood let in bcr 
hind, across the grai^ o^f the wood, to prevent. itS: 
warping), canvas, card, or. plaster of Paris. TJie 
plaster of Paris would rec|u ire no other preparation, 
than mixing soiae fine plaster of Paris, in powder,.. 
with.GoW water,. the thickness of a cream,; : then put<, 
it on a looking-glass, having first naadea fr^me. oC 
bees'- wax Qfl the looking-glass, the form.aDd -thick-^ 
i^ess you i would wish the plaster of' Paris io be of,; 
andiwhenidry take it.off, and there will/be a very» 
acaooth surfeice to j[>aiijt upon. Wood and canva&s 



MANAGEMENT OF COLOURS. 321 

nre best covered with some grey tint, mixed with 
the same composition of gum-arabic, gum-mastic; 
and wax, and of the same sort of colours as before- 
mentioned, before the design is begun, in order to 
cover the grain of the wood or the threads of the 
canvas. Paintings may also be done in the same 
manner, with only gum-water and gum-mastic, pre- 
pared the same way as the mastic and wax ; but in* 
stend of putting seven ounces of mastic, and, when 
boiling, adding five ounces of wax, mix twelve oun» 
CCS of gum-mastic with the gum- water, prepared as 
mentioned in the first part of this receipt; before 
it is put on the fire, and when sufficiently boiled and 
beaten, and is a little cold, stir in, by degrees, twelve 
ounces, or three quarters of a pint (wine measure) 
of cold sprmg water, and afterwards strain it. It 
would be equally practicable painting with wax 
ulone, dissolved in gum-water in the folfowingman- 
ner : Take twelve otmces, or three quarters of a. 
pint (wine measure) of cold spring water, and four 
ounces and a half of gum-arabic, put them into a 
glazed earthen vessel, and when the gum is dissolv- 
ed, add etght ounces of white wax. Put thd earthen 
vessel, with the gum-water and wax, upon a slow 
fire^ and stir them till the wax is dissolved, and has 
boiled a few minutes ; then take them off the fire, 
and throw them into a bason, as by remaining in the 
hot earthen vessel the wax would become rather 
hard ; beat the gum-water and wax till quite cold. 
As there is but a small proportion of water in com- 
parison to the quantity of gum and wa^, it would be 
necessary, in mixing this composition with the co- 
lours, to put also some fair water. Should the com- 
position be so made as to occasion the ingredients 
to separate in the bottle, it will beconKJ cqjially ser- 
viceable, if shaken before used, to mJx with the co* 
lours; 



322" PAIXT PAINTINGS, 

632. To clean Oil Paintings. 

If smoked, or very dirty, take stale urine, in irhicli 
-a little common salt is dissolved ; rub them orer 
with a woollen cloth dipped in that, till you thinly 
them quite clean, then with a sponge wash thrrvr 
over with farr water; then dry them^ and rub thcnr 
over with *a clean cloth. 

633. To take offj insiantly^ a Copy/rcfn a Print or 

Picture^ 

Make a walcr of soap and alum, with which wet 
a cloth or paper; lay it either on a print or picture, 
and pass it once unaer the rolling press ; then go- 
ing round the other side to take it up, you will have 
a very fine copy of whatever you shaU have laid it 
upon. 

634. To clean andzohiien Prints or engrctvings^^ 

Half fill a glass bottle with a mixture composed' 
of one part of the red oxyd of lead, or minium, and 
three parts of the muriatic acid; and having closed 
the mouth of the bottle mth a ghss stopper, put it 
in a cool place not exposed to the light. A certain 
heat will then be produced) which is an indication 
that new combinations are formed. The oxyd of 
the lead abandons a considerable portion of its oxy- 
gen, which remains combined with the liquor; the 
latter then acquire a beautiful gold colour, and as- 
sumes the odour of the oxygenated muriatic acid. 
It holds in solution a small portion of the lead, which 
does not^ in the least, injure its effect. It is neces- 
fiiiry that the bottle should be of strong glass, and 
the stopper be wellsecured, in order to prevent the^ 
dastic vapour which rises from forcing it out.. 
When you employ the liquor thus prepared, lake a 
l^rge pane of glass, and raise a kind of border of 
white wax around its edge, about two inches in 
beightj and every way equal. By these means you 



form a sort of trough, into which put the prints, and 
pour over them a little fresh urine, or water mixed 
with a portion of ox galL At the end of three or 
four days, pour off which of these liquids you have 
employed, and supply its p1ac« with warm water, 
which ought to be changed -every -three or four 
hours, untii it comes orff perfectly clear. When 
the matter, with which the prints are diraed, is of a 
resinous colour, which sometimes happens, dip them 
in a little alcohol : afterwards suffer all the moisture 
to drain off, and cover the prints with the liquor of 
the oxygenated muriatic acid made %y minium. 
Place ou the edges of the wax another pane of glass, 
of the same size as that below, in order that you 
may not be too much incommoded by the smell of 
-the acid ; and you will plainly see the yellowest 
prints resume their original whiteness. One or tv/o 
hours will be sufficientto produce the desired effect. 
Having then poured off the acid, wash the prints 
several times in pure water^ and dry them in the 
sun. 

635. To make Mezzotintos* 

Mezzotintos are made in the following manner : 
Take a well-poKshed copper-plate, and, beginning 
at; the corner, rake or furrow the surface all over 
with a knife or instrument made for the purpose, 
first one way and then the other, till the whole is of 
a regular roughness, without the least smooth part 
to be seer^; in which state, if a paper was to be 
workedfrom it at the copper-plate press, it would 
be all over black. When this is done^ the plate is 
rubbed over with charcoal, or black lead, and then 
the design is drawn with white chalk ; after which, 
the outlines are traced out, and the plate finished, 
by scraping off the roughness, so as to leave the 
figure on the plate. The outlines and deepest shades 
^jce not scraped at all, the next shades. are scraped 



324 PAINT — PAiNTnrfes. 

butliulc, the next more, and so on, till the shades 
gradually falling off, leave the paper white, in which. 
places the plate is neatly burnished, 

636. To judge of Transparent Colours for Painting •^ 

. Transparent colours should be so clear, when 
Tiiixed with abundance of water, as to communicate 
a strong tint without in the smallest degree plaster- 
ing or concealing the paper, &c. : hence their de- 
signation. The best of every kind are made fron^ 
either vegetable or animal substances, minerals be- 
ing extremely difficult to prepare, equally so to 
ivork with water, and many of them very subject to 
change. 

637- To prepare Ivory Leaver for Miniature PainU 

ers. 

Take the ivory leaves, or tables on which the 
painting is to be made, and, having cleansed it, rub 
it over with the juice of garlic^ Thi's takes off that 
greasiness which is so much complained of, as pre- 
venting the colours from talcing on the ground ; 
and which is not otherwise to be remedied by the 
use of soap, or even gall. It is, however, effectu- 
ally removed by the above simple preparation. 

C38. How to stencil^ or multiply Patterns^ for work- 
ing Muslins^ <J^c. 

When a print or drawing is to be copied in this 
way, it must be placed upon a «heet of white paper, 
and the outline pricked through both with a pin or 
needle ; the pierced sheet may then be laid on a 
second clean one, and a muslm bag of powdered f 

charcoal shook or rubbed over it, when, upon re-* 
moving the fowner, the latter will be found a per- 
fect copy. 

'€3 9. To stain Paper or Parchment yellow* 
Paper may be stained of av beautiful: yellow by 



"PERTUAES — COSHftTICS* 325 

^e tincture of turmeric, formed by infusing an 

Hiunce or more of the root, pdwdered, in a pint of 

spirit of wine. This, by afterwards adding water 

^it, may be made to give any tint of yellow, from 

the lightest straw to the full colour called French 

yellow, and will be equal in brightness even to the 

'best dyed silks. If yellow is wanted of a warmer 

or redder cast, annatto, or dragon's blood, must be 

-ddded to the tincture. 

640. To stain Paper or Parchment crimson* 

A very fine crimson stain may be given to paper, 
by a tincture of the Indian lake, which may be 
made by infusing the lake some days in spirits of 
"wine, and then pouring off the tincture from the 
"dregs. 

^41 • To stmn Papet or Parchment green^. 

Paper or parchment may be stained green by the 
solution of verdigris in vinegar, or by the crystals 
of verdigris dissolved in water; also by the solution 
of copper in aquafortis, made by adding filings of 
copper, gradually, to the aquafortis till no ebulli- 
tion ensues ; or the spirit of salt may be substituted 
'for the aquafortis. 



CflAPtER XXIX. 
PERPUMES-^COSMETICS. 



I .•.• I ti'i 



642. To make ah excellent Sti^elling Bottle. 

Take an equal quantity of sal-ammoniac and Ufa- 
slacked lime, pound them separate^ then mix and 
put them in a bottle to smeli io. Before you put id 

cc 



:326 PERFUMES — COSMETICS. 

ihe above, drop two or three drops of the essence of 
burgamot into the bottle, then cork it close. A 
drop or two of ether, added to the same, will great- 
ly improve it. 

643. To make Jessamine Butter^ or Pomatum* 

"' Hog's lard melted, and well washed in fair wa- 
ter, laid an inch thick in a dish, and strewed over 
-with jessamine flowers, will imbibe the scent, and 
make a very fragrant pomatum. 

644. To make Milk of Roses. 

To one pint of rose water, add one ounce of oU 
of almonds, and ten drops of the oil of tartar. 
N. B. Let the oil of tartar be poured in last. 

645. Wash for the Skin 

Four ounces of pot-ash, iour ounces of rose-wa- 
ter, two ounces of pure brandy, and two ounces of 
lemon juice; put all these into two quarts of wa- 
ter, and when you wash, put a table-spoonful or 
two of the mixture into the bason of water you in- 
tend washing in. 

€46. Method of extracting Essences from Ffowers, 

Procure a quantity of the petals of any flowefs 
which have an agreeable fragrance ; card thin lay.- 
crs of cotton, which dip into the finest Florence or 
Juucca oil; sprinkler small quantity of fine saltoa 
the flowers, and lay them, a layer of cotton, and a 
layer of flowers, until an earthen vessel or a wide* 
mouthed glass bottle is full. Tie the top close with 
a bladder, then Jay the vessel in a south aspect to 
the heat of the sun, and in fifteen days, when un* 
covered, a fragrant oil may be squeezed away frojp 
the whole mass, little inferior (if that flower is 
made use of) to the dear and highly valued Otto flf 
Odour of Roses. 



■>"ir » >•• i> 






PERPUHES — COSMETICS. 32f 

047* 7b lim/ce the Quintessence of Lavender ^ or other 

Aromatic Herb, 

Take off the blossoms from the stalks, which 
must be cut fresh at sun-rising in warm weather 5 
spread the blossoms on a white tinen cloth, and lay 
them in the shade for twenty-four hours ; after 
which, stamp or bruise them ; then put them, im- 
mersed in warm water,- into the still, near a fire, and 
let them infuse for the space of five or six hours, so 
closely covered that nothing may exhale from it ; 
after which time, take off the covering, and quick- 
ly put on the helm, and lute it carefully.- You 
must, in the beginning, draw over half the quantity 
of the water you* put in- If you take away the re- 
ceiver, you will see the quintessence on the surface 
of the water, which you may easily separate from' 
if. Then put the distilled water back again, and 
distil it over again,, till there appear no more of the 
quintessence on the water. You may distil this wa- 
ter four pr five times over, according as you per- 
ceive the quintessence upon it. 

The best distilling utensils for this work are those 
for the Salneum marice, or sand bath ; meanwhile 
you rtiay, after the common method, distil the in- 
gredients on an open fire. But if you intend to 
make quintessence for waters, you may make use 
of common salt, in order to extract the more quint- 
essence of any blossom. 

Take four pound's of blossoms of any aromati(i 
plant and infuse in it six quarts of water. If you 
use salt to bring your infusion to a ferment, add 
half a pound of common salt to it. 

648. To obtain Aromatic Oils from the Pellicle^ 
which envelopes th^ Seeds of the Laurus Sassafras^ 
and Laurus Benzoin. 

The method of obtaining these oils is, to boil the 
pellicle which surrounds the seeds of. the s^ssafra&i 



SSt PERFUMES — COSMETICS* 

and benjamiu-tcee, in water ; when they float upon 
its surface, from wjiich they may be skimmed with 
a jpoon. t 

That of the sassafras difiers materially from the 
oil obtained from the bark of the root of this tree. 
Its aroma is different, it is much lighter, and it con- 
gealsin ahigher degree of heat,.. 

The ojl of the benzoin-tree is a dfelightful aro- 
matic, is very inflammable, and might be used as a, 
spice in food, and in all those diseases in which the 
aromatic oils are useftih It has been tried with 
success, as an external application, in a case of 
severe chronic rheumatism. One half pound of the 
pellicleof the seeds will yield several ounce mea- 
sures of oil^ 

649. Ta preserve Aromatic and other Herbs. 

The boxes and drawers in which vegetable mat- 
ters are kept, should not impart to them any smell 
or taste ; and more certainly to avoid this, they 
should be lined with paper. Such as are volatile^ 
of a delicate texture, or subject to suffer from in- 
sects, must be kept in well-covered glasses. Fruits 
and oily seeds, which are apt to become rancid, 
must be kept in a cool and dry, but by no means 
in a warm and moiat place. 

650. Lavender JVater, 

Put two pounds ofjavender pips into two quarts 
of water, put them into a cold still, and make a 
hlow lire under it ; distil it off very slowly, and put 
It into a pot till you have distilled all your water; 
then clean your still well out,, put your lavender 
water into it, and distil it off slowly again ; put it 
* into bottles, and cork it well. 

G51. Another. 

Take a pint of the best rectified spirits of wine» 
a shilling's-worth of oil of lavender, sixpenny worth 



i 



\ 



PERFUMES — COSMETICS. 32^ 

of essence of ambergris ; mix these altogether, and ■ 
keep it close from the air, then draw it off for use. 
Let it stand till it is fine before you draw it off. 

652. To make Rose Water. 

Gather roses oa a dry day, when they are full 
blown ; pick off the leaves, and to a peck put a 
quart of water, then put them into a cold still, make 
a slow fire under it, the slower you distil it the bet*- 
ter it will be ; then bottle it, and in two or three 
days you may cork it. 

653. To make Eau de Luce, and its Use* 

Take of spirit of wine one ounce, spirit of sal- 
ammoniacum four ounces, oil of amber one scruple, 
white Castile soap ten grains. Digest the soap and 
oil in the ^irits of wine, add the ammoni^um, and 
shake them well together. > 

654. To make Hungary Water* 

Take a quantity of the flowers of rosemary, put, 
them into a glass retort, and pour in an much spirit 
of wine as the flowers can imbibe; dilute the retort 
well, and let the flowers macerate for six days, 
:hen distil it 4n a sand heat. . 

.d55. Tomxike OHo{or Odour) of Roses* 

Pick the leaves of roses from all . seeds and stalks, 
put them in a clean earthen vessel, glazed within, 
or a clean wooden vessel. Pour Spring water on 
them, so as to cover them ; set the vessel in the sun 
in tke morning at rising, and leave it in the sun- 
shine tHl sun-set ; ihea take them into the house ; 
repeat this, for six or seven days, and in three or 
four days there will be a fine yeljow oily matter on 
the surface of the water; arid, in two or three days 
more, there will appear a scum upon the surface, 
which is the otto of roses. This may be taken up. 



\ 



330 PERrUMES-^COSMKXICS, 

with cotton, and squeezed Into a phial with the fing' 
erand thumb. 

Remark^-^i is suspected that there is some mis- 
take in this receipt, and it has passed to the public 
through very many hands. It was pubh'shed in the 
Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, 
on the authority of Dr. D. Monro, of London, who 
received it from Major Mackenzie, who agab. got 
it from an officer of his corps, whose name is not 
mentioned. 

The account given by Poller in the Transactions^ 
of the Bengal Society is very di£ferent. It is need-? 
less to detail it, for it is exactly the process of an 
European distiller : cohobation on fresh leaves, and 
exposure to slight cold, to congeal the essential oilj 
which is skimmed off or taken up by cotton, and* 
squeezed into phials. 

It is conjectured, that in the manufacture or pro- 
duction of otto which is thought to be profitable irv» 
the East, and the reverse in Europe, the diflference 
cannot be in the price of labour, or similar circum? 
stances, which European skill would more than 
compensate ; but in the fact, that there is a market 
for rose-water in the East, ifrom the quantity used 
in washing hands, sprinkling rooms and garments, 
and similar purposes, to which the demand of the 
European apothecary and confectioner is compara- | 

tively insignificant. It is but a thin film of congeal- { 

ed essential oil wbicha great quantity of rose-water - ; 
will afford ; and after it is taken off, the water is j 
still very good. In India it may be sold ; in Eu- 
rope it is waste ; for to employ it in firesh distilla- 
tiotvs is clearly to waste a maaufactured article^. 

556. To make Jjip' Salve. 

Take an ounce of white wax and ox marrow, 
three ounces of white pomatum, and melt all in a 
"bathheat ; add a drachm of alkanet, and stir it till 
it acquire a reddish colguTt 






6jSi7., To meJce tht ethbrated Pomade Divine. 

According' to Dr. Beddoes, this composition is as> 
followrs, viz* beef marrow, twelve ounces steeped in- 
water ten. days, and afterwards in rose water twen- 
ty-four hours ; flowers of Benjamin, pounded storax, 
and Florentine orris, of each half an ounce ; cinna* 
mon, a quarter of an ounce clove and nutmeg a 
* quarter of an ounce. The whole to be put in 
an earthen vessel, closely covered down, to keep in 
the fumes, and being, suspended in water made ta 
^ boil three hours; after which, the whole is to be 

strained and put into botdes*. 

653. To make Soft Poinaivm. 

Take what quantity of hog's lard you choose to 
' make ; cut it down in small pieces, and cover it with' 
clear springs waterj changing it every twenty.-four 
hours for eight, days ; wien it is quite white, put it' 
into a pan, and melt it over a clear fire ; when it is 
ail melted, strain it, and put toit- some essence of 
lemon to perfume it : so keep it for use. 

C59. To make Hard Pomatum. 

For hard Eomatum, blanch the hog's lard' in the- 
same manner, as also some mutton, suet, and boil* 
them together with a* little white wax; scent it with 
essence of lemon or lavender, then make roundr. 
paper cases, and when cold turn. down the other. 
4^ and, and keep it for use. 

660. Genuine IFlndsor Soap^ 

- To make this famous soap for, washing the hands^ 
shaving, &c. nothing more is necessary than to slice 
the best white soap as thin as possible, melt, it in a 
stew-pan over a slow fire,. scent. it well with oil ofc 
caraway, and then pour it into a frame or mould 
made for that purpose, or a small drawer, adapted 
in size and form to the quantity. When it has stood, 
three or four days in a dry sit uation, cut it into square 



332 P£&rUHE3^— OSMETICS* 

pieces, and it is ready for use. By this simple mode^^ 
substituting any more favourite scent for that of car- 
away, all persons may suit themselves with a good 
perfumed soap at the most trifling expense. Shaving 
boxes may be at once filled with the melted soap, - 
instead of a mould. 

66 1 . To prepare Aromatic Vinegar* 

Take of common vinegar any quantity j mix a^ 
sufficient quantity of powdered chalk, or common, 
whitening, with it, to destroy the acidity. Then let 
the white matter subside, and pour off the insipid, 
supernatant liquor; afterwards let the white pow- 
der be dried, either- in the open air, ^r by a fire. . 
When it is dry, pour upon it sulphuric acid (oil of, 
vitriol), as long as white acid fumes continue to as* 
cend. Stone vessels ^re the properest to be used on . 
this occasion, as the acid v/ill not act upon them. 
This product is the acetic acid,. known in the shops 
by the name of aromatic vineggu". The simplicjity 
and cheapness of this process points it out as a ve- ~ 
ry useful and commodious one for purifying prisons, . 
hospital-ships, and houses, where contagion is pre- 
sumed or suspected, the white acid fumes diffusing 
themselves quickly around. 

If any one. is desirous of obtaining the acid in a - 
liquid state, the apparatus of Nboth presents a con- - 
venience for the purpose. It must of course be col- 
lected in water. But the muriatic acid is cheaper, . 
and much more expansible. 

662. Essence of Soap for Shaving or zimshing. 

Hands. 

Take a pound and a half of fine white soap in thin 
slices, and add thereto two ounces of salt of tartar ; 
mix them well together, and put this mixture into 
one quart of spirits of wine, in a bottle which will . 
hold double the quantity of the ingredients 5 tie a.. 



PERiniliiES — COSMETICS. 33::^ 

Uadder over the moiith of the bottle, and prick a 
pin through the bladder ; set it to digest in a gentle 
heat, and shake the contents from time to time, tak- 
ing care to take out the pin at such times to allow 
passage for* the air from within; when the soap iS' 
dissolved, filter the liquor through paper, to fr^e it 
from.impurities ; then scent it with a little burga- 
inot'or essence of lemon. It will have the appearance 
of fine oil, and^a small quantity will lather with wa*^ 
ter like soap, and is much superior U\ use for wash- 
log or shaving* 

Q63. To increase the Growth of Hair, 

Hartshorn beat small, and mixed with:oil, bein^ 
rubbed on the head of persons who have lost their 
hair, will cause it to grow again as at first. 

664. To know whether Hair Powder is adulterated 

with Lime*, 

Put a little crude sal-ammojiiac, in powder, to the 
suspected hair powder,.and*add a little warm water 
ro the mixture, and stir it about ; if the powder has 
been adulterated with lime, a strong smell of vola- 
'.ile alkali will arise from this mixture* 

6b ^. To perfume Hair Pozoder.. 

Tukc one drachm of musk, four ounces of laven- 
der blossoms,, one and. a half drachm of civet, and 
half a drachm of ambergris ; pound the whole toge- 
ther, and pass it through a sieve* Preserve this mix- 
ture in well-stopped bottles, and add more or less 
thereof, as agreleable, in your hair powder* 

666. Preparation of the Greek Water ^ {or the Solu" 
iion of Silver^ for the converting red or light co* 
loured Hair into a deep Brown* 

Take silver* filings, and dissolve-them in spirit o£ 
nitre* The spirit of nitre and the silver, being put 
in a mau^ss,. m^ust be placed, fiirst in a gentle sandU 



334 PERFUMES — COSKETIC?.' 

beat, and afterwards removed where the fluid may- 
be made to boil for a short tiraCr Being taken out 
of the' sand-heat, while yet hot, add as much water 
as may have evaporated during the boiling; and,: 
when the solution- is grown cold> decani off the clear 
fluid from the seditnent, if there be any, and the un- 
dissolved part of the silver filings ; which may be 
dissolved afterwards, by adding more spirit of ni- 
tre, and repeating the same treat<menr. 

(Lunar caustic dissolved in water is precisely the 
same. It is sold by the chemists for about half-a- 
crown an ounce; the salt is more pure and cheaper 
than it can be made in small quantities.) 

J^ote. — The solution of silver, thus obtained, with 
common water, is the Greek watfer, used for turning 
red or light-coloured" hair to brown^ Its eflBcacy 
may be greatly improved by washing, the hair be- 
fore the application of the water, with common wa- 
ter, in which some soda has been dissolved. The 
proportion may Be an ounce and'a half of pure soda 
to a pint of the water; but it requires a frequent 
repetition to change the colour of the hair; and care 
must be taken that a sufficient quantity of water be 
added to dilute the solution, to prevent its destroy- 
ing the hair, or, perhaps, excoriating the skin by 
its causticity. At least double the quantity of water 
should be therefore added. 

The hair must first be cleaned from polvder and 
pomatum, with a small-tooth comb, and then washed 
with the soda and water till all grease, pomatum, &c^ 
l)e got out; then use the Geek water in the follow- 
ing manner,. first shaking the bottle : Take as much 
hair as can conveniently be wetted, and with a bit 
of sponge, tied on a little stick dipped in the Greek 
water, wet the hair well, and so proceed till all is 
wetted ; let it dry by sun, air, or fire, before you re-> 
peat it, which must be done four times, and after- 
wards be washed with the soda and water,. all which. 



TEJlFIJMES — COSMETICS. 33^ 

may easily be done in eight hours. A cloth should 
be put on the shoulders, and do not let the Greek 
.water touch the skin, or as little as possible. To 
make yourself expert, first try, according to the a- 
bove directions, to dye a lock of hair that is not 
growing on the head; and make the Greek water- 
stronger or weaker, according as you find it neces- 
sary. 

6GT. Amort convenient Dye for the Hair* 

The defect of the preceding composition is, that 
it stains the 5^m as well as=the;Aair; — this inconve-- 
.nience does not attend theiollowing preparation : 

Into a glass phial or a porcelain of clean-glazed 
;€arthen-ware vessel, filled with strong clear lime- 
water, put a little litharge in fine powder. The lime- 
water will dissolve a portion of the litharge in the 
oold, and a greater quantity by the application of a 
boiling heat. When the solution is complete, pour 
it into a bottle,. and keep it stopped. More lime-wa- 
ter may be put to the remaining litharge. By eva- 
.poration in a retort, the solution is concentrated, 
■:4nd yields very small transparent crystals, about as 
soluble in water as lime. 

It blackens the hair and the nails,; but as it dors 
not aftect the colour of the skin, nor of animal oils, 
it may. be applied every time that the face is wash- 
ed, or the hair combed. It is decomposed by the 
sulphate of alkalies and sulphurated hydrogen gas* 



^36 ftATS. 



c:hapter XXX. 

RATS. 



€68. To destroy Rats and other Vermin. 

Sponge, if cut in -small pieces, fried or dipped in 
honeyj and given to vermin, distends their intestines, 
^nd effectually destroys them. The addition of a 
little oilof rhodium will tenafjt them to eat* 

A better method would be to feed them regularly 
two or three weeks in any apartment which they 
infest. The hole, by which they enter, being first 
'fitted with a sliding door, to which a long string may 
be added ; any apartment might be thus turnea into 
a 'gigantic rat-trap. 

66 9. Another Method of destroying Rats. 

I^ay bird-lime in their haunts, for though they arfe 
nasty enough in otlier respects, yet being very cu- 
rious of their fur, if it is but daubed with this stufi^ 
it is so troublesome to them that they will even 
scratch their skins from off their own back to get it 
off, and will never abide in the place where they 
have suffered in this manner. 

€70. To destroy Rats or -Mice. 

Mix iBour of malt, with some butter; add thereto 
a drop or two of oil of aniseeds ; make it up into 
balls, and bait your traps -therewith* Jf you have 
thousands, by this means you may take them all. 

671. A Mouse Trap, by which forty or ffty Mice may 

he caught in a Night. 

Take a plain four-square trencher, and put into 
the two contrary ends of it a large pin, or piece of 
thick knitting cieedle ; then take two dticka aboot a 






.yard long, and lay them on your dresser,, with a 
notch cut at each end of your sticks, placing the 
two pins, stuck on the corncgcof the trencher, on the 
notches of the two sticks, so that one corner of yonr 
drencher may lie about an inch upon your dresser or 
place that the mice come to 'j then let the corner that 
lies opposite to this be baited with spme butter and 
oatmeal, plastered fast on, and when the mice run 
off the dresser to the butter, it will tip them into a 
vessel full of water, which you must place under 
the trencher, in which they will be drowned* 

That your trencher may not tip over, with a little 
45ealing-wax and a thread, seal the string to the dres- 
ser and trencher, and it will remain in good order' 
.for week^ or months. 

^72. JiTew, simple, and Effeetuai Method 6f destroy^ 

ing Rats. 

A few years ago, the corn-mill at Glossop wa^ 
very much infested with rats, A quantity of barley, 
which lay on the chamber floor, was hourly visited 
by some of them, t'he miller one day going to drive 
them away, as usual, happened to catch one of them 
under his hat, which he kiHed; he thep Moged all 
the hair off its body, h&c* until ke stin, taB, and 
legs becatee stiff by the operation. In this condi- 
tion he set it Uj>on its feet by the side of a heap of 
barley, where it stood, with pricked-up ears and 
tail, for some time : after this, no rat dared to<:ome 
near it ; and in a short space of time the mill was 
cleared of those depredators, and has continued so 
ever since. ' "' 



\ 



r 



^^73. Dr. Taylor^ s r.heap ^nd ejfficaiaus " Method of 

dtsiroying Rats. 

^Communicated to the Manchester Agricultural So- 
ciety.] 

^ 

■fa ^r ttear:tlieo|iIace frequented by t^se y^rmin, 

X>0 



/ 



^38 llATS. 

place on a slate or tile one or two table-spoonfuls of 
dry oatmeal. Lay it thin, and press it flat, more ea- 
sily to ascertain what is taken away. As the rats, if 
not interrupted, will come regularly there to feed, 
continue to supply them with fresh oatmeal for two 
or three days ; and then, well mixing, in about six 
table-spoonfuls of dry oatmeal, three drops only of 
oil of aniseeds, feed them with this for two or three 
days more. Afterward, for one day, give them only 
lialf the quantity of this scented oatmeal which they 
have before £aten ; and next day, place the follow- 
ing mixture : To four ounces of dry oatmeal, scent- 
ed with six drops of oil of aniseeds, and half an 
ounce of carbonated barytes, previously pounded 
very fine in a mortar, and sifted through a little fine 
muslin or cambric. Mix these intimately with the 
scented oatmeal ; and, laying it on the tile or slate, 
allow the rats to eat it, without the smallest inter- 
ruption, for twenty-four hours. A few hours after 
'Cating any of it, they will freauently be seen run- 
ning about, as if drunk, or paralytic ; but they gene« 
rally, at last, retire to their haunts, and die. As rats 
«re extremely sagacious, it may be proper, when 
they have, durUjg the twenty- four hours, eaten only 
a small portion, to leave the remainder of the mix- 
ture twenty-four hours longer ; after which it will be 
best to burn what is left, a fresh mixture being pre- 
pared at so trifling an expense when wanted. The 
doors of the place svhere this mixture is exposed to 
j^he rats should be kept closed ; as well to prevent 
their being disturbed, as to obviate the possibility 
of accidents to children or domestic animals ; for, 
though^^t be not so extremely dangerous as the pre- 
parations commonly employed for' killing rats, and 
is evcnusiedin medicine, it proves fatal, if impro« 
perly taken, unless timely counteracted by emetics. 
The oil of aniseeds, though it renders the mixture 
cUsagreeabletodogs, and many other ananab^ i&al- 



RATS. S-33.; 

Turing, when used in small cjuantities, to rats. The 
cnrbonated barytes, Dr. Taylor adds, maybe pro- 
cured in large quantities at the l6ad mines belong- 
ing to Sir Frank Standish, Bart, at Anglezark, near 
Chorley, in Lancashire : the proper sort is tasteless, 
semi-transparent, and effervesces with acids ; it is 
moderatrly hard, and striated. It is called aerated 
barytes — terra ponderosa aerata — and, sometimes, 
by the miners, ponderous spar. It may be purchas- 
ed at a cheap rate from Messrs. Brown and Mawe, 
in Tavistock-street, or other collectors of minerals. 

6^74. To prevent the Burrowing of Rats in Houses. 

Rats may be effectually prevented from burrow- 
ing under the foundation of houses, by making an 
offset of stone or brick, about two feet in breadth,, 
and eighteen inches below the surface \ and by car- 
rying up a perpendicular wall from the edge of this 
offset, to within sf few inches of the ground. The a- 
doption of the same plan, inside will prevent the 
burrowing of these animals in cellars : for rats al* 
ways burrow close to a wall ; and finding their per*- 
pendicular course impeded, they take a horizontal 
direction, as far as the offset continues, when they 
are again stopped by the outside wall. Thus baffled, 
they ascend, and go off. 

Those persons who have suffered in their grana- 
ries, ice-houses, and in the cellars of their dwelling- 
houses, by the depredations of rats, will probably 
deem this one of the most valuable articles of the. 
present work. 



340 SPOTS OR STAINS* 

CHAPTER XXXI. 
SPOTS OR STjJIJ^. 



675. To make portable Balls, for removing Spots 

from Clothes in general. 

Take fullers's-earth, perfectly dried, so that it 
crumbles into a powder ; moisten it with the clear 
juice of lenjons, and add. a small quantity of pure 
pearl ash«s; then work and knead the whole care- 
fully together, till it acquires the consistence of e^ 
thick elastic paste ; form it into convenient small 
balls, and expose them to the heat of the sun, in 
which they ought to be completely dried* In this 
state they are fit for use in the manner following : — 
First,, moisten the spot on your clothes with water, 
'then rub it with the ball jiist described, and suffer 
it again to dry in the sun : after having washed the 
spot with pure water, till it will entirely disappear. 

676. The Fumes of Brimstone useful in removing 

Spots or Stmns in Linen, <J^c« 

If a red rose be held in the fumes of a brimstone- 
match, the colour will soon begin to change, and, 
at length, the flower will become white. By the 
same process, fruit-stains or iron moulds may be re- 
moved from linen or cotton cloths, if the spots be 
previously moistened with water. With iron moulds,, 
weak muriatic acid is preferable, assisted by heat;, 
^s by laying the cloth on a tea-pot or kettle, filled 
with boiling water. 

677. To remosDe Spots of Grease from Paper* 

Take an equal quantity of roach-alum, burnt, and 
flower of brimstone, finely powdered together i wet 



V 



SP©TS OR STAIirS>^ 3^1- 

the paper a little, and put a small quantity of the 
powder on the place, rubbing it gently with your 
finger, and the spot will disappear, 

678* Substitute for Salt of Sorrel^ for removing Ink 

Spots^ and Iron Moulds. 

Take six parts of crystals of tartar, in powder, 
three parts of alum, Hfcewise pulverized, and use* 
them in the same manner as salt of sorrel. 

679. Expeditious Method of taking out Stains from 
Scarlet^ or Velvet of any other Colour* 

Take soap wort, bruise it, strain out its juice.s 
and add to it a small quantity of black soap.. Wash 
the stain with this liquor, suffering it to dry between 
whiles, and by this method the spots will in a day . 
or two entirely^dlsappear. 

^80. To~^takl Spots effectually out of Silkj Linen^ or 

Woollen* 

Spirits of turpentine, twelve drops, and the same 
quantity of spirfts of wine ; grind these with anu 
Ounce of pipe-maker's clay, and rub the spots 
therewith. > You are. to wet the composition when* 
you do either silk^ linen, or woollen with it ; let it 
remain till dry, then rub it qff, and the spot or spots 
will disappear. = • 

Triie spirits of salts diluted with water, wiH re*' 
move iron-moulds from linen ; and sal-ammoniac, 
with lime,, wilbtake out the stains of wine. 

Gdl. > To take thd Stains of Greaseifrom Wdollen or 

Silk. . 

Three ounces of spirits of wine, ihpeis; oances.jQf 
French chalky powderedy and five ounces of pipe- 
clay. Mix the a.bov€ ingredients, and make^them ia 
rollsabout the ler^gth of a finger^ and you will find- 
a never-failing remedy for removing greasy froia* 
woollen^ or silken goods. 

DD 2 -^ 



343 SPOT'S OR STAINS. 

N. B. It is to be applied by rubbing on the spot 
either dry or wet, and afterwards brushing the 
place. 

6&2^ Eastf and mfe Method of discharging Or ease 
Spots from WooUen Cloths* 

Fuiler's-earth, or tobacco-pipe clay, being put 
Wet Oft an oil spot absorbs the oil as the water eva- 
porates, and leaves the vegetable or animal fibres of 
clotfa. cleanyou being beaten or brushed out* When 
the spot is occasioned by tallow or wax, it is neces*- 
sary to heat the part cautiously by an iron or the 
flre, while the cloth is ^ying- In some kinds of 
goods, blotting pap^r, bran, or raw starchy may be 
used with advantage. 

683. To take out Spots of Ink* 

As soon as the accident happens, wet the place 
with juice of sorrel or lemon, or with vinegar, and* 
the best hard.white soap. 

084. To take hron-moulSs out of Linen* 

Hold the iron-mould on the cover of a, tankard of 
boiling water, and rub on the spot a little juice of 
son*el and a little salt, and when the cloth has tho- 
roughly imbibed the juice, wash it in lee. 

6d^. To tak§ out^ Spots on Silh 

Rttb the spots, with spirit of turpentine ; thiss{n«-i 
rit exhaling, carries^ off with, it the oil that- causes; 

ihe spot. 

■t>86. To take Wax out of Velvet of all ColourSj ««« 

eepi Crimson* 

Take a crumby wheaten loaf, cut it iw two*,, toasti 

.1 before the fire, and, while very hot, apply it- ta^ 

he part spotted with wax. Then, apply another: 

piece of toasted bread hot as before, and cantiaue? 

:bif5 sppKcatioatiJl the wax is entirely taken? cwW . 



SPOtS^ OR ST A»fS. 843 

6S7. Froeess for preparing niircms Acid for extract-^ 
ing Stainsj ^c.from tanned Leather. 

Take half a pint of water, a quarter of a pint of 
niti'ous acid, and half an ounce of salts of lemon. 
Put the water in a bottle, and add the nitrous acid to 
it, and afterwards the salts of lemon ; wh/en the heat 
which is caused by this mixture has^ subsided, add 
half a pint of skimmed milk; shake them occasion- 
ally for three or four days, and the liquor will be- 
fit for use. 

The application, — With a brush and" soft water 
clean the surface of the leather from, all grease, 
dirt, &c. Next scra^pe on it a little Bath brick, or 
white free sand ; add a little of the above liquor, 
and with a brush, scour it well, repeating this pro- 
cess till the whole has been gone over ; then, with 
a clean sponge and water, wash off what remains- 
of the brick : Ifeave the leather to dry gradually, 
and it will be of a* light newcolour. rf it is wished 
to be darker, brush it with a hard brush a little be- 
fore it is dry, and it will be of a rich brown tinge. 

688* To extract Grease Spots from P^per. 

Scrape* finely some pipe-clay, the qiiantity of> 
which may fee easily determined on making the- 
experiment: lay thereon the sheet or leaf,-and cov- 
er the spot in like manner with the clay ; cover- 
the whole with a sheet of paper ; then apply, for a 
ibw seconds,^ a heated ironing box, or any substi- 
tute adopted by laundresses. On using Indian rub- 
ber to remove the dust taken up by the grease, the 
paper will be found restored to its original degree 
of whiteness and opacity. 

ft89* To remove Spots oj G-rease froma Book^^ oncJ 

Prints* 

Ahet having gendy warmed the paper stdned^ 
Hith grease,- wax, oil, or>a«)y^fat body wJiatever,f 



344 SPOTS OR STAINS. - . 

takeout as much as; possible ofit, 'by meun^oEi 
blotting .paper. ThenxUf^a small brush in the es- 
sential oil of well rectified spirit of turpentine, heat- 
ed almost to an ebullition Xfor when cold it acts 
only very weakly,) and draw it gently over both - 
sides of the paper, which must be carefully kept ^ 
warm. This, operation must be repeated as many 
times as the quantity of the fat<bbdy imbibed by the ;' 
paper, or the thickness of the papfr, may render • 
necessary. When the greasy subtance is entirely^ 
removed, recourse may be had to the- following 
method to restore the pap^r (o its former whiteness,^ 
which is. not completely restored by the first pro- 
cess. Dip another brush in highly rectified spirit!; 
of wine, and draw, it, in like piannenover the place., 
which was stained, and particularly round the 
edges, to. remove the border, that would still pre- 
sent a stain. By. employing, these means, with,' 
proper caution, the spot will totally disappear ^the • 
gaper will .re^um^ its original whiteness ; and if the. - 
process has been employed on a part written on ^ 
with common ink, or printed with printer's ink, it ; 
will experience no alteration*- , 

690. T^ tak^ Spots out of Cloths^ Stuffs, Silk^ Cdt- 

Take two quarts -of sp^'^pgwatei*, put iti it a little' - ] 

fine white pot-asht about the quantity, of a walnut,', 
and a lemon c.ut. in slices ; mix these well together^ , ' 

and let. it stand .for twentyrfour hours in the sun ;, \ • 
then i^traio it off>;iand>piit4he clear.liquid up for use. , 
This watertakes out all spots, whether pitchy grease, 
or or), as weJl in bats,, as cloths and , stufis,' silk x)t 
cortton,-aiKi lirien. As- soon as* thcf spot 'is taken 
diit, wash the place with fair water ;> for cloths ofa> 
deep colour, add to a -spoonful of the mix^ture as - 
m«)ch fair water as to weaken it. 

Grease, spots in cloth may be removed by using^ 



./ 



SPOTS OR 8TAHI*. 345 

soap and water with a tooth or nail brash, and af- 
terwards wiping off the lather with the wet corner 
of a towel. Essence of lemon, or pure spirit of 
turpentine, will remove pitch from cloth, &c. 

In w^oollen cloth, an easier method is to scrape 
off the hard tallow with the edge of a tea-spoon, 
ihenrub the part briskly with a clean woollen rag, 
shifting the rag as the part becomes dirty ; or, place 
some blotting paper on the spot,, press it with a hot 
iron, occasionally moving the paper,. 

&91. Remedy against the Effects of Ink^ when just 

spilled. 

Tf the ink he spilled on a rufife,, or aproO) &c* 
while you have it on, let one hold the spotted part 
between his two hands over a bason and rub it, 
while another pours water gradually from a decan- 
ter upon it, and let a whole pitcher-full be used if 
necessary ; or if thr ruffle, apron, &c# be at liberty^ 
let it be dipped into a bason filled with water, and 
there squeezed and dipped in again, taking carets 
change the water in abundance every two or three 
squeezes. If the ink be spilled an a green table 
carpet, it may immediately be taken out with a tea- • 
spoon so entirely, that scarcely any. water at all 
shall be wanted afterwards, provided it was only 
that instant spilled, as the down of the cloth pre- 
vents the immediate soaking in of the ink, or of any 
Other liquor (except oil ;) but if it have lain some 
time, be the time ever so long, provided the place, 
be still wet, by pouring on it fresh clean water by 
little and little at a time, and gathering itupagain 
each time with a spoon, pressing'hard to squeeze it 
out of the cloth into the spoon, you will at last bring 
it to its natural colour, as if ao 5uci\ accident haJ 
happened. 



346 TIMBEBi 



CHAPTER XXXII. 
TIMBER. 



OOi. To promote the Grozvtfi of Forest Trees, 

It is highly to be censured, the neglect of \:ier* 
mittiog ivy-twines, which grow to forest trees, ta 
remain attached to them. Their roots entering into 
the bark rob the trees of much of their nourishment ; 
they in a manner strangle their suppoilers, by im- 
peding the circulation of their juices, and in time 
destroy the trees. They should be torn up by the 
roots, for, if any part of them adhere to the tree, 
they will spread, as they obtain nourishment by 
their adhering roots* 

, . - * 

653. Whiie'washing the Trunks 0/ Trees rtcom- 

mtnded» 

Being one day upon a visit (observes Mr. North- 
more, who recommends this experiment) at my 
friend's, near Yarmouth, in Che Isle of Wight, I re- 
marked that several of the trunks of trees in his 
orchard had been covered with whitewash ; upon 
enquiring the reason he replied, that he had done 
it with a view to keep off the hares, and other ani- 
mals, and that it was attended not ^uly with that 
good effect, but several others, for it made the rind 
smooth and compact, by closing up the cracks ; it 
entirely destroyed tlie moss ; and as the rains wash- 
ed off the lime, it manured the poots. These seve- 
ral advantages derived from, so simple a practice 
deserve to bennore generally known. The whitQ^ 
wash is made in the usual manner, with lime, and 
»ay be applied twice, or oftener, if necessary. 



-»— ^ 



TIMBIgR.' '347 

4394. To cure Wounds in Trees. 

Wounds in trees are best cured by covering 
•them with a coat of common lead paint without tur- 
pentine (forturpentine is poison to vegetation) in the 
«un, on a fine dry day. 

695. Mr, Forsyth? s Method of Curing Injuries and 
Defects in Fruit and Forest Trees, published by 
Command of his present Majesty* 

Mr. Forsyth directs, in his Treatise on the Man- 
agement and Culture of Fruit Trees, &c. that all 
the decayed, hollow, loose, rotten, injured, diseas- 
ed, ^and dead parts, should be entirely cut away, till 
the knife extend to the sound or solid wood, so as 
to leave the surface perfectly smooth. The com- 
position which he has invented, and directed to be 
then applied, is thus prepared : To twenty-five gal- 
lons of human urine, and a peck of Ume, add a suf- 
ficient quantity of fresh cow-dung to bring it to tlie 
consistency of paint, fhis composition should 
then be laid on with a painter^s brush, to the thick- 
ness of about an eighth of an incb, and the edges 
finished ojSr as thin as possible. In the mean time, 
a tin box, the top of which is perforated with holes, 
stajuld be filled with a mixture of five parts of dry 
paiverized wood ashes, and one part bone ashes 
also reduced to powder ; from which it is to bescatt 
tered or dredged over the surface of the composi- 
tion 1 and, when it has been suffered to absorb half 
an hour, an additional portion of the powder is to 
be gently applied with the hand till the plaster ac- 
quire a smooth and even surface. As the edges of 
the plastered wounds grow up, care must be taken 
to prevent the »ew wood from coming in contact 
with that which is decayed : and, for this purpose, 
it will be proper to cut cfut the latt«r, in proportion 
as the growth of the former advances ; a hollow 
«pace being left between the two, that the new wood 



34B TIKBSB. 

J 

tnay have sulAcient space to extend and fill up the 
cavity, thus forming, as it were, a new tree. Ia 
consequence ofth is process, old and decayed pear* 
trees, in the second summer after its being thus ap- 
.plied, are said to have produced fruit of the best 
quality and finest flavour; and, in the course of four 
'X)r five years, to have even yielded such abundant 
crops, as young and heahhy trees could not have 
borne in twenty years. By the same method, too, 
large and aged elm-trees, all the parts of which 
were broken, having only a very smaM portion of 
bark left on the trunk, shot forth stems from their 
4ops to the height of more than thirty feet, within 
six or seven years after the compiosition had been 
applied. It appears, therefore, that both foresl 
and fruit trees, however aged or decayed, may be 
jDreserved, and even renovated ; while the latter, in 
particular, are reiidered more fruitful than at any 
eailier period of their growth. The health and 
vegetation of trees in general, Mr. Forsyth remarks, 
may be greatly promoted, by scraping them, by 
cutting away the caiikered parts, and by washing 
their stems annually in February or March: and be 
recommends fresh soap suds, and the composition^ 
to be applied to Ihe stems and4)ranches of fruit,^§|p- 
est, or timber trees of any kind, in the same tnati* 
^cr as the ceilings of -rooms -are white-washed ; 
which, heassertts, will not only destroy -the eggs of 
insects that would be hatched during the spring and 
summer, but also prevent the growth of moss. If 
therefore, lie adds, the sameoperation be repeated 
in autumn, after the fall of the leaf, it will kill the 
eggs bf those numerous insects wiikfa wotild other- 
•wise be hatched during that season and the ensuing 
winter. So thatithis process, in fact, not only con- 
tributes to the nourishment 'of the tree, but actually 
.preserves its bark in a fine heaitbful states. 



TIMBER. 349 

€&6. To preserve Wood in damp Situations. 

Two coats of the following preparation are to be 
appiied, after which the wood is subject to no dete- 
rioration whatever from humidity* Twelve pounds 
of resin are to be beaten in a mortar, to which three 
pounds of sulphur and twelve pints of whale oil are 
to be added. This mixture is to be meHed over 
the fire, and stirred during the operation. Ochre 
reduced to an impalpable powder, by triturating it 
with oil, may then be combined in the proportion 
necessary to give either a lighter or a darker colour 
te the material. The first coat should be put on 
lightly, having been previously heated ; the second 
may be applied in two or three days, and a third 
after an equal interval, if from the peculiar damp- 
Bess of the situation it should be judged expedient. 

Remark, — It is highly probable (though the ex- 
periment has not been tried) that this compos itioa 
would be improved by adding a small portion of the 
liquid leather, which is now commonly sold in London, 
being the refuse efthe purification of fish oil by tar. 

Where the work will bear the expense, and is 
not exposed to a heat of more than 130 degrees of 
Fahrenheit, the best compos^ition is the following : 
Equal parts X)f turpentine (the fluid resin, not the 
essential oil) bees'-wax, black resin and maltha, or 
coal tar, boiled together till they cease to rise, that 
is, till the white cream or scum proceeding from th« 
separation of the essential oil aisappears. Apply 
it warm with a turpentine brush-— two or three coats 
to cover the cracks or pores left by the brush. This 
lute was first proposed by Chaptal, without the ad- 
dition of the coal tar, which is a great improvement. 
A piece of wood covered with three coats of it, and 
immersed for two years in water, was found to be 
<juite dry on cutting off the lute. 

Take care not to afllow water to fall into the pan, 



\ 



350 TIMBER. I 

■as it would make the hot materials explode. If the 
composition catch fire, put on the cover directly, 
and remove the pan for an instant from the fire. 

€07. Cmise and Prevention of the Dry Rot* 

The cause of the dry rot in wood is moisture ; 
and 10 prevent well-dried timber from decaying • '] 
above or under ground,' is by charring it well. 

698. Curt for the Dry Rot in Tirnber, so as to makt 

it indestructible by Water. 

Mek twdve ounces of rosin in an iron pot; add 
three gallons of train oil, and three or four rolls of 
fcrimstone ; and when the brimstone and rosin are 
tnelted and become thin, add as much Spanish 
brown, or red and yellow ochre, or any other col- 
our required, first gixMind fine with the same oil, as 
tvill give the whole a shade of the depth preferred ; 
then lay it on with a brush as hot and thin as possi-^ 
ble ; some time after the first coat is dried, give it 
a second. This preparation will preserve planks 
for ages, and keep the weather from driving through 
brick work. 

699. Method of trying the Goodness of Timber for 
Ship Buildings used in the Arsenal at Vienna. 

One person appHes his ear to the Centre of one 
fcnd of the trunk, while another, with a key, hits the 
other end with a gentle stroke. If the tree be sound 
und good, Ihe stroke will bedistinctly heard at the 
other end, though the tree ishould be an hundred 
feet or more in length* 

700. To Season and render Green Timber immedi'- 

atelyfiifor Use. 

After the timber has been cut down from the 
slock, take ofi* immediately both the outer bark and 
also the inner rind^ clean to the wood ; cut it up to 
the different purposes for which it may be wanted. 



TIMBER. 351 

whether scantlings for roofings, joists, planks, deals, 
or the like. After preparing them for their proper 
use, steep them in lime water a few days, or pay 
them over with a little of the linre, along with the 
"tvater. The hotter it is used after the lime is slack- 
ed, so much the better. Lime water is made by 
slacking the lime shells in water. This will an- 
swer equally well for round trees. The author of 
this method says, he has been, for a great number 
of years past, used to take down and repair botb 
ancient and modern buildings, in which a good 
deal of Scots fir had been used, but he never found 
one inch citherrotten or worm-eaten, where it was 
in the least connected with lime, and kept dry | oti 
the contrary, he found il more bard and firm thaa 
when first used. 

*j^* Some observations and recipesj applicable to 
Trees in general ^ may also be found in Chap. xxv. 
Sect. v. Ms. 608, 509, 511, 512, 514, 516, 517. 
pp. 260—263. 



Travellers, (Hints to) sec Chap, xxvi. J\ast 
547, 548. pp. 279, 280. 



35'3 VARNISHED. 

CHAPTER XXXIII. 
KiRMSHES. 



[The following original and excellent Observations^ 
on Varnishes were first pvhU shed by Tho. Cooper ^ 
Esq. of Northumberland^ {North Amtrica) in the 
American edition of Dr. fVillich'^s " Domestic Eu'- 
ei/clopediaw^^\ 



701. Observations an Vamishis. 

The liquids in which the substances proper for 
making varnishes are gcneraliv dissolved are lin^ 
seed, nut oil, sun-flower oil, oil of turpentine, and 
spirit of wine. Hence the subtanccs themselves 
are all of the class of rosins. Nut oil is not often 
used, though being of a clearer colour than linseed 
oil, it might sometimes deserve the preference. 
The other essential oils, as rosemary, bergamotte^ 
Sic. are too dear, and do not dry. 

The substances commonly employed are such as 
form a transparent solution with the solvents above 
mentioned, and are not liable to be affected by 
moisture of any kind : since none of the gums, or 
gum-resins, are fit for the purpose. 

The resins usually employed are : copal, amber, 
mastic, sandarac, lac (both stick lac and seed lac) 
pine turpentine from Chfos or Venice, common 
white rosin, dragon's blood, gum-elemi, asphakum, 
or Jew's-pitcb, and common pitch. To which may 
be add^d, elastic gum, or ca-out-chouc, thoug^h this 
is only used at present for baIloons.u 



k. 



f 



VAilNISRE&i $53 

Oil of turpentine deadens the coloar of paints : 
tile varnishes of amber and copal brighten them. 

Linseed oil is procured by grinding linseed ia 
mills for that purpose. It is of a brownish colour. 
Before it can be used it must be made driving. The- 
reason that oil will not dry without preparation is 
either that it contains a quantity of uncombined- 
mucilaginous substance, or a quantity of uncom- 
bined acid, or both. I have not seen this any where 
ascertained ; Mr. Watt told me it was acid.^ 

The common method of making drying oil, is to 
put about half an ounce of litharge to each quart of 
theoilc boil it not hastily, or violently, but with a 
moderate and equal fire for about two hours, scum- 
ming it. If it be boiled too hard it will be burnt, 
and become brown. Let this rest till all sediment 
has perfectly subsided, then separate the clean oil, 
which will grow the clearer -and the better for keep- 
ing. When it is made perfectly drying, it will have 
a scum formed at the top.^. Kerhaps white lead 
would be better to use than litharge^ 

Poppy oil J is from the seeds of. the common pop- 
JSfut oily is the oil. expressed in the same manner' 
from walnut. It is made drying in the same man- 
ner as ]inseed>oil : and being clearer, is preferable 
for colourless varnishes. 

. To make boiled-Hnseed oil colourless, take three 
or four gallons of oil : add to it about two quarts of 
fine clear sand, and three or four gallons of boiling 
water: agitate it for half an hour, separate the oil, 
and repeat the process with fresh water. 

Oil of iurpentine is produced by the distillation 
of common lurpentinC': the residuum is rosin. 

Copaly is a, resin, produced from certain , trees fn- 
NeWxSpain. The best is the clearest, and such as > 
will glaze a hot tobacco-pipe without blistering. 
Amber (Karabe^ succinuTb) is a substance, bdU 



354 VARKISHKS, J^ 

whether vegetable op animal is iK>t qliilc defertniit- 
cdy fbe«<j upon the sea-shores of Polish Prussia. It 
has -been by some thought a resin from trees ; by 
others, a fossil ; by others, the indurated excrement 

of the whale. 

Mastic^ is a resm produced from a small tree call- 
ed theLentisk, growing in the isle of Chio, The 
barfc is cut, and the juice exudes. 

Sandarac^ is a resin produced in the same way 
from a species of juniper, growing on the coast of 

Africa. 

Lac, gum-lac, seed-lac, is produced on dertam 
trees of the fig kind, in the mountainous parts of the 
East Indies, by the perforation of insects in the 
bark. It has been, by some thought a kind of wax 
produced by the insects themselves. 

Turpentine is collected in the Greek isles, by 
making an incision in the fir-trees : the juice is tur* 
pentine. Venice [whian] turpentine is brought 
over in large earthen jars*^ 

Common rosiriy the residuum of turpentine, aftep 
Jistilling it to obtain the essential oil. 

Dragon^ S'hlood^ a resin of a red colour produced 
from certain trees in the East Indies and Madeira^ 
ftnd the Canary Islands. 

Gu7n-Elemi, a resin, the produce of trees growing 
in the East Indies and Brazil. 

Asphaltum, Jew-Vpitch. This is a nati^ bitu- 
men found in various^ papts of the world, ©fa black- 
ish-brown colour. 

Common Pitch is the residuum after the distilla- 
tion of tar. 

Mastic Gum, a substance: from the East Indies 
and the Brazils, having all the properties of inspi&» 
sated bird-lime, oroftfaejuice of the Misletoe* 

II dksolves in petroleum and oil of turpentine* 



TOST. General Observations on making ydrnishes of 
• ail Kinds ^ 

1st. As the substances that form varnishes are 
extreniely inflammable, they ought only to be made 
in a brick or stone room with a floor of the same 
materials. They should be cSiutiously kept froni a 
fire that flames ; nor should a lighted candle come 
PiCar them; for the vapour^ particularly of oil of 
turpentine and spirit of wine ^ xoitl coithfire at some 
distance^ by means of flame of any kind. The opera- 
tor should always have by him a woollen cloth or 
small blanket in a tub of water to cover the vesset 
containing the ingredients in case of their taking 
fire. They can only be put out by thus excluding, 
the air. 

2d. The subslan:ces should be freed, as mucli as^ 
possible,, from impurities of every kind, particularly 
sandarac, and preserved free from dust. The ut-- 
most cleanliness,, in and about the vessels, is essen-^ 
tially necessary togood colour and transparency. 

3d. The substances, after being broken into pie- 
ces, freed from impurities and heterogeneous sub- 
stances, should' be put by themselves in the melting, 
pot. If reduced to powder or very small pieces^, 
they stick to the* sides of the pot, and buni and hurt. 
Ae colbur. 

4th» All the resins should be kept in vessels welt 
stopt and closed from dust. So of the oils and spiriU 

5th. When the varnish is made, it should be left 
some time for the dregs to settle: then be poured, 
off clear, arjd then be filtered through silk or lawn. 

6th. For goods that are not to be exposed to the; 
heat of the suh^the spirit varnishes will an3wer: 
but as sandarac and mastic will melt in the sun, the 
oil varnishes' of copal and amber are the most pix)<* 
per. 

7th. Glazed earthen vessels are better than iron :- 
copper is soluble ia oil, and therefore is not to b& 



356 VAAKISHES* 

used* The most scrupulous cleanliness is-necessary 
to success. 

703. Of Varnishes v?ith Spirit of Wine* 

Copal-spirit Varnish* This receipt is kept 'a great 
secret. Mr. Henry, of Manchester, in England, and 
(he Sieur Watin, at Paris, make it. Henry's is ra- 
ther coloured. 

I havre made it, by dissolving copal'in a warm 
place, in any of the folio wing, essential oils: berga- 
motte, lavender, orange, lemon, rosemary, of which* 
the last is the cheapest;. dilute it with twice the. 
quantity of highly rectified spirit of wine. If the oil 
of rosemary is much adulterated with oil ofturpeiv^ 
tine, it will not succeed. Oil of turpentine precipi- 
tates the copal; but by twelve hours digestion (irr 
a small retort with a lamp heat) of oil of turpentine 
on copal, I succeeded in making a perfectly colour- 
lesiS varnish.> 

704. Colourless Spirit Varnish of MdsUc and San- 

darac. 

To one quartx)f rectified spirifadd two ounces of- 
oaastic, in dro|>s, and six ounces of sandarac ; wbef¥ 
well dissolved, add four ounces of pure Venic«^tur- 
•pentine* 

If it is wanted to be harder, substitute two ounces 
of gum-lac, half an ounce of gum-elemi, and two 
ounces of clear white rosin instead of the mastic aiick 
terpentine. But the colour will not be so good. 
The first is proper for toilet- boxes, &g. the ISist for 
cane, chairs, furniture, &c. which are much hand*- 
led. 

705. Varnish for VioKns and Musical Instruments* 

. Spirit of wine one quart, sandarac four ouncer^ 
gum-lacca and mastic, each two ounces, gum-elemi.. 
one ounce ; when all is melted, add two ounces. oF 
tttrpientine* - 



J 



V^ARNISHESr 351 

706. Gold-colour Varnish* 

Bruise separately four ounces of lacca, as mucl> 
gamboge, as much dragon^s blood, a« much annatto, 
and one ounce of saffron. Put each of these hito a 
quart of spirit of wine. Digest them in the sun ov 
in a moderate heat for a fortnight, mix them with 
clear varnish of sandarac according to the tint you 
want. Four ounces of aloes dissolved in a quart of 
spirit will also be a good addition to the above in- 
gredients, and give you more command over the tint 
you may require. 

707. General Ohsei*vations on Spirit Varnishes* 

1. A water-bath is the proper heat for spirit 
varnishes. A sand-bath is liable to be too hot, and 
embers or coals dangerous. 

When the water once boils, keep it boiling till 
the substances are dissolved. This y^a will find by. 
stirring it with a glass, or white wood spatula, or 
a tobacco-pipe. By dissolving salt in the water, yoir 
may increase the heat. When your substances are 
not quite dissolved, never put them on the fire ase* 
cond time to finish the solution. 

Never fill the vessels but about Uirec parts /yll. 

2. Gum-elemi gives consistence to the varnish, 
but should be used in small proportions. Brilliancy 
is given by the Venice and Chio turpentine. 

3. The turpentine should always be melted se-^ 
parately, when the substances are dissolved : it 
should be melted- in a small quantity of spirit of. 
wine, and then added. After the turpentine is add- 
ed, give the water-bath six oi* eight boils, and then 
take it off, and strain it through a very fine sieve or- 
finfe linen. It will be still clearer by standing and re- 
pose. 

4. The general proportion of sandarac is about 
ten or twelve ounces to a quart of spirit, and so of 
the other guRis : if others are sifbstituted, the sand-*- 



Ik 



350 VARNISHES^* 

arac must be proportionably diwinished. The spi- 
rits of wine should fire gunpowder. 

5. If you want i*cd or black varnishes^ dragon's- 
blood and vermilion, Jew's pitch and lamp-black, 
will answer, your purpose. 

6. Seed-lac makes harder varnish than sheH-Iac j 
about ten ounces to the quart is enough. 

708. Oil Varnishes, — General Observations on Oil 

Varnishes* 

1. Copal and amber ai:e the two principal sub* 
stances for oil varnishes ; as each of them possesses 
the property of making a hard and transparent var- 
msh, they need not be ntixed; but copal should be 
reserved for the lighter coloured varnishes. Amber, 
however, is tougher than copal^. and a little of it cer- 
tainly improves cop^l varnish^ if the tinge of colour 
is no objection. 

2. It requires a stronger fire to dissolve copal and 
amber when mixed with oil, than alone ; a strong 
heat hurts the colour. Melt therefore these resins 
by themselves, broken into small pieces ; employ 
no more heat than is necessary to melt them ^ 
when melted, ddd to ih&ta. the hot linseed oil by 
degrees, stirring as you pour it in ; then give a few 
boilings to incorporate the whole. 

3. If you have more than one resin to add, melt 
the hardest first, otherwise the most fusible will 
bum before the other is melted. 

4. A sand-bath, or bright coals that do not 
fiame,! is the proper heat for oil varnishes ; but 
give no more heat than is barely necessary to mek 
them. 

5. The vessels should be glazed earthenware 
with a cover ; and new ones used, for copal varnish 
especially, every time.. 

6. When the oil and the resin are incorporated 
aad well stirred together, add your hot oil of tur^ 



« 

■1 



tARNISHES^ 35V 

pentine ; lliis should be about double the quantity 
t>f the oil employed ; but the oil should not be boil- 
ing hot Avhen the turpentine is poured in, otherwise 
it may catch fire. Stir it, 

^. Filter or strain the varnish ; then let it rest at 
least forty-eight hours. The sediment will do for a 
coarser or more coloured varnish of the same kind : 
the oil mixed with the sediment will tarnish the cor 
lour at the second melting. 

709. , Copal Varnish. 

Melt slowly one pound of copal ; add half a pint 
of boiling drying oil: when incoi'porated, add one 
pint of oil of turpentine made hot. You may add 
from half a pint to three pints of boiling drying oil, 
according to the consistence required, 

710. Another. 

Melt in a perfectly clean vessel, by a very slow 
licat, a pound of clear copal: to this add from one 
to two quarts of drying Unseed oil ; when the mate- 
rials are thoroughly mixed, remove the vessel from 
the fire, and keep constantly stirring it till most of 
the heat is gone: then add one pound of o^l of tur- 

f)entine. Srain the varnish through a piece of close 
inen, and keep it for use. The older it is, the more 
drying does it become. 

711. Another^ 

M. Carendeffez, formerly of St. Domingo, and at 
present resident at New- York, finds that an ounce 
of good sulphuric aether, and an ounce of copal in 
gross powder, mixed together in a well stopped bot- 
tle, and placed in a moderate S3nd-heat or water- 
bath, form a perfect solution. Mr. C. remarks, that 
the solution, though not very cheap, affords a fine 
and brilliant varnish, and the process is so easy as 
to be repeated by any person though of very raode* 
rate skill. 



360 VAnmsuzs. 

712. Gold-colour Varnish^ or Lacker* 

Take eight ounces of amber, two ounces of lac- 
ca ; melt them ; add eight ounces of drying oil : thea 
add oil of turpentine coloured with gamboge, annat- 
to, saffron and d ragouts-blood. acccH'ding to the 
tinge you want, 

713* Black Japan. 

Melt eight ounces of amber; melt (separately 
from the amber) four ounces of asphaltum, and four 
ounces rosin : when melted, add eight ounces of 
boiling oil, and then sixteen ounces of oil of turpen- 
* tine 1 then stir in ivom half an ounce to one ounce 
lamp-black, and give it another boil or two. 

714. Common Varnish. 

One pound of rosin, one ounce gum-elemi, eight 
ounces drying oil, and sixteen ounces oil of turpea- 
tine. 

715. Varnishes with Turpentine alone^ 

Oil of turpentine will dissolve any of these resins^ 
except copal and amber; but it does not make «o 
good varnish as when mixed with boiled oil. 

716. Common Turpentine Varnish 

Is frequently made by dissolving one pound of 
turpentine, or about ten ounces of rosin, in oil of 
turpentine alone. 

717. Elastic Gmn Varnish. 

Cut the gum into small pieces, and digest it with 
thirty-two parts of pure oil of turpentine for twenty- 
four hours in a warm place. Rosemary, lavender, 
and dther essential oils also dissolve it. So does 
Xiitric aether. If softened by boiling in water, or still 
more in a solution of alum, it may be joined^ 

718. Varnishes of Gums. 
Gum-tragacanth and gum-arabic maybe dissolv* 



TinEtVISH£&. 361 

^d in water; or the first in brandy, Ichthyocolla 
(isinglas) is best dissolved in brandy or whiskey. 

7 1 9. Elastic Gum. 

Size — ^From diluted glue ; from white leather cut- 
tings. 

Fish Size — Boiled eel skins, 

720. Martin's Copal Varnish. 

In a large gallon earthen pot, with a cover like a 
chocolate pot, melt four ounces Chio turpentine : 
when fluid, pour in eight ounces of amber powder- 
ed ; set it on the fire a quarter of an hour. Take oft' 
the pot ; add to it one pound of pounded copal, four 
or more of turpentine, and one gill of warm oil of 
turpentine. Increase the heat a little ; when it has 
been on the fire half an hour, take it off, stir the in- 
gredients, adding two ounces of the finest and 
whitest colophony or rosin. Set it again on the fire, 
and increase the heat till the whole is quite fluid. 
Remove the pot ; let the heat subside a little ; have 
ready twenly-four ounces (about one pint and a 
quarter) of drying linseed oil, poppy, or nut oil ; 
pour it boiling hotT^y degrees into your gums and 
stir them well. When mixed, set it again on the fire, 
stirring it till it boils up; then take ii off and add a 
quart of turpentine made hot; stir. and give it one 
v:S\\ more ; then adfl another pint of turpentine 
made hot ; stir it \^f, give it one more boil, and it 
is enough. Strain it; if thicker than linseed oi^| thin 
it with oil of turpentine. Let it stand a month bei 
fore it is used. It shouid be made in ah open yard, 
for the frequent practice is very unwholesome. 

Great danger will attend the addition of copal, as 
the same heat which would be required to dissolve 
the copal would volatilize the turpentine, and take 
fire if the vapour were directed to the fl(>me. 



^63 VAANlSKESk 

721* Another Varnish* 

Melt eight ounces of Chio turpentine, pourJlQ one 
pound of powdered amber by degrees, stirring.it aU 
the while ; set it on the fire for half an hour, then 
add two ounces of white rosin ; stop the cover close, 
and increase the fire till the whole is melted. To 
this add one pound of hot drying oil ; and then by 
degreesa quart of oil of turpentine. Amber can on- 
ly be dissolved clear, by melting it with $ome fess 
glutinous gum. Same process for copal varnish. — 
llom. Enc. vol. v. {Philadelphia) p. 233. 

722. Varnish for coloured Drawings and Prints*^ 

Take of Canada balsam one ounce, spirit of tur- 
pentine two ounces ; mix them together. Befor<B 
this composition is applied, the drawing or print 
should be sized with a solution of isinglass in wa- 
ter ; and when dry, apply the varnish with a camel's 
hair brush. 

723. To varnish plaster Casts or Models. 

Take about a quarter of an ounce avoirdupoise;, 
of the finest white soap, grate it small, and put it in- 
to a new glazed earthen vessel, with an £nglish pint 
of water ; hold it overthe fire tilLthe soap is dissolv- 
*ed, then add the same quantity of bleached wax cut 
into small pieces : as soon as the whole is incorpo- 
rated, it is fit for use. 

Mode of application, — Dry the model well at the 
iGre, suspend it by a thread, and dip it, in the var- 
nish ; take it out, and a quarter of an hour after dip 
ii in again ; let it stand for six or seven days, then, 
with a -bit of muslin rolled softly round your finger, 
Tub the, model gently, and this will produce a bril- 
liant gloss; but this part of the operation must be 
done with gi^at care and a light hand, as the coat 
liOf varnish is thin. 



7^4. Another Way* 

Take skim railk, from which the cream has been 
carefully taken off, and with a camel's hair pencil- 
fay over the cast till it holds out, or will imbibe no 
more ; shake or blow off aay that remains on the sur- 
face, and lay it ina place free from dust; and when 
it is dry, it will look like polished marble. 

N. B. This last mode answers equally well with^ 
the former, but will not resist the weather*- 

725. Varnish for Tlarthenware 0- 

To make it white, glass and soda in equal pro- 
portion must be pounded together, very jSne, care- 
fully sifted, and ' well mixed*: This mixture must 
rext be exposed to a strong, heat till it is rendered 
very dry. It is after that to be put into vessels which 
have been already baked ; it will then be melted, 
and the varnish is made* It may be applied in the 
usual manner. 

726. French^ soft Varnish for Engravers* 

One ounce of virgin's wax, one ounce of asphal- 
tum or Greek pitch, half an ounce of common pitch, 
ahd a qiiarter-of an ounce vof Burgundy pitch. 

N. B. The cehebrated Vivares, the landscape 
engraver, always- used this varnish, in preference 
to any other. 

727. Varnish for Furniture, 

To one part of virgin's white wax add eight parts 
of oil of petroleum; lay a slight coat of this mix- 
ture on the wood with a badger's brush, while a litde 
warm ; the oil will then evaporate, and leave a thin 
coat of wax, which should afterwards be polished 
with a coarse woollen cloth. 

728. A Varnish for Toilet Boxes, Cases, Fans, ^c* 
Dissolve two ounces of gum-mastic, and eight 



:^64 VARNisfies^* 



o 



Z' 



ounces of gum-sandaratr, in a quart of alcohol ; then 
add four ounces of Venice turpentine. 

729. Preparation of the true Copal Varnish* 

Take two parts of gum copal, reduced to a fine 
powder ; wash it repeatedly in water, to free it from 
the woody fibres ; then introduce it into a flask, and 
pour it over four parts of pure oil of rosemary : di- 
gest the mixture in a gentle heat for three days, or 
longer ; after which, add as much highly rectified 
spirits of wine as Is djcmed necessary, and suffer it 
to remain undisturbed, until the impurities subside : 
then decant the varnish, 

730. To make Varnish for Oil Paintings^ 

' According to the number of your pictures, take 
the whites of the s^me number of eggs, and to each 
picture take the bigness of a hazel-nut of white su- 
gar-candy, dissolved, and mix it with a tea-spoon- 
ful of brandy; beat the whites of your eggs to a 
frothy then let it settle; take the clear, put to it 
your brandy and sugar, and varnish over your pic- 
tures with it ; this is much better than any other 
varnish, as it is easily washed off when your pictures 
want cleaning again. 

731. To make White Varnish* 

Dissolve gum-sandarac and gum-mastic in spirits 
A wine ; leave it to settle for two days ; then strain 
It through a linen cloth, let it stand for some time, 
•.;OJr off the clear liquid, and bottle it fqx' use. 






1. Another^ by Dr, Withering. 

Take of gum-sandarac an ounce and a half; mas- 
tic, in drops, half an ounce; gum-elemi, a quarter 
of an ounce ; o\\ of spikclavender, a quarter of an 
ounce ; put them into a half-pint phial, and fill it up 
with best spirits of wine. Let it stand in rather a 
^rarm place, till all the gums are dissolved, and then 



I VARNISHESr 365 

pour off the varnish into a clean phial^ and it will be 
ready for use. 

733. ^ Varnish for preserving Insects^ Fruits^ S/Cm - 

y Take one pound of rectified spirits of wine, and' 
/y two ounces of white amber; ada thereto an ounce 
of white sandarac and white mastic, an ounce 
and a half of Venice turpentine; digest the whole 
in baneo mariae during forty-eight hours, to an en- 
tire dissolution ; take out the intestines of the insect 
you have a mind to preserve; lay them for some 
days in rectified spirits of wine, mixed with clarified*' 
sugar-candy; afterwards besmear them with your 
varnish till theyare transparent as glass; in this 
manner you will preserve them a long time. 

This- varnish' succeeds equally with vegetables 
and fruits, which mever rot or decay when not af- 
fected by the exterior air as has been observed with 
regaixl to cherries, which are preserved perfectly 
well, by besmearing ihem with melted white wax. 

734.. Method of ^preparing Linseed Oil Varnish. 

One pound of well pulverized and sifted litharge, 
four ounces of finely pounded white vitriol, and one 
quart of linseed oil. Put these ingredients into aa 
iron pan of such a size that it may be only half full ; 
mix them welLtogether, and boil them till the mois* 
ture is evaporat^, which may be known by a pel- 
licle being formed on, the surface, or by the barrel of 
a quill bursting when thrust to the bottom of the 
boiling. varnish. Thea take it from the fireand pour 
off the clear liquid, taking care to keep back the 
thick part,' which has. deposited itseU at the bot- 
tom. While boiling, it mtist be stirred several times 
round, that the litharge may not fall to the bottom ; 
but stir it constantly, else superfluous litharge wilt 
be dissolved, and the varnish become too thick. 

The composition of amber varnish consists q£ j 
kaif a pound olmelted or rpasted amber; one pooncji 

FF 2. 



566 VARNISHES. 

ahd a half of linseed oil varnish, and two poHnds of 
turpentine oil. The amber and linseed oil vamisb 
are to be mixed together in a deep cast-iron |>an, of 
such a size as to be only one-third full^ and to be 
kept over a slow fire till the amber is dissolved^ 
'which may be known by its swelling up; the ope- 
rator therefore must have at hand a large copper, or 
iron vessel, that the varnish may be held over it in 
case it should rise above the sides of the pan, and to 
prevent the loss that would thereby be occasioned* 
-*~When the varnish is dissolved, the pan must be 
taken from the fire ; and when the mixture has cool- 
ed, the turpentine oil is to be poured into it, contin- 
ualiy stirring it. Then let it stand some Ume, that 
the coarse undissolved particles may deposit them- 
selves at the bottom ; after which pour off the. clear 
varnish, andy having strained it through a piece of 
linen, put it in bottles for use. 

In boiling the varnish, care must be taken that it 
may not bori over, or catch fire. Should this happen 
to be the case, it must not be extinguished by wa- 
ter ; for this mode would occasion such a spatter- 
ing, that the operator would be in danger of having 
his face bespattered with the boiling varnish. The 
best method, therefore, is to cover the vessel in such. 
a manner as to exclude the air, and for this purpose 
to have at hand a piece of wood, plate pf iron, or 
any thing^ eke thtit may cover the vessel and ex- 
tinguish the flame*. 

735. Varnish for Pales, and coarse Wood Work, 

T^ke any quantity of tar,. and grind it with as 
.much. Spanish brown as it will bear, without render- 
ing it too thick to be qsed as a paint or varnish, an<i 
tben spread it on the pales, or other wood, as sooa 
as convenient, for it quickly hardens by. keeping. 

This mixture must be laid on the wood to be var- 
ai&he^^ by a large brush, or house-psiinter's tool i 



f 



ViA^ui&HJSS* 367 

aud'ttie work should then bck^pt as free from dust 
.as possible, till the varnish be thoroughly dry. It 
will, if laid on smooth wood, have a very good 
gloss^ and is an excellent preservative of it against 
moisture; on which account, as well as its being 
cheaper, it is far preferable tp painting,, not only 
for pales, but for weather- boarding, and all other 
kinds of wood-work for grosser purposes. Where 
the glossy bfown colour is not liked, the work may 
be made of a greyish brown, by mixing a small pro- 
portion of white lead, or whitening, or ivory blacky 
with the Spanish brawn. 

736. To make Gold Vamish*^ 

This ingenious process, which is at present em- 
ployed throughout Europe, in gilding wooden- 
frames, coaches, and various articles, and which ' 
was formerly used in the preparation of the now oldr 
fashioned leather tapestry, was invented towards 
the end of the sixteenth century. The composition 
is as follows :-r- 

Take gum-lac, and having freed it from the filth, 
and bits of wood with which it is mixed, put- it into- 
a sraall linen bag, ^nd wash it, in pure water, till 
the water becomes no longer red, then take it from' 
the bag and suffer it to dry. When it is perfectly 
dry, pound it very fine, because the finer it is pound- 
ed it will dissolve the more readily. Then take 
four parts of spirits of wine, and one of gum, re- 
duced, as before directed, to an impalpable powder, 
so that for every four pounds of spirits you may 
have cue of gum; mix these together; and, having 
put them into an alembit, graduate the fire so that 
the gum may dissolve in the spirits. When dis- 
solved, strain the whole through a strong piece of 
linen cloth ; throw away what remains in the cloth, 
as of no use, and peserve the liquor in a glass bot- 
tle, closely cOrkea. This is the gold varnish which 
may be employed for gildinjg any kind of wood* 



r 

1 1 



3^6 S VARNISHED. 

When you wish to use it, you must, in order that 1 

the work may be done with more smoothness, em- 
ploy a brush made of the tail of a certain quadruped 
called Vari, well known to those who sell colours 
for painting ; and with this instrument dipped in the 
liquor, wash over gently, three times, the wood 
which has been silvered. You must, however, re- 
member, every time you pass the brush over the 
wood, to let it dry : for, in so doing,, your work will 
be extremely beautiful^ and have a resemblance to 
the finest gold. 

737» Varnish for DrazoingSj Prints, irc.^c^ 

^< Boil four ounces of isinglass^ ih small pieces, in 
orie quart of brandy or spirits of wine, expose it to 
the air, and when only warm wash over the print or' 
drawing (which should be previously mounted) and 
let it stand till quite dry ; then wash it again at a 
small distance from the fire, or it will blister, which 
i^epcat two or three times ; then go twice over with 
the following white varnish : — Take of gum-sanda- 
rac and gum-mastic equal parts ; dissolve them in 
spirits of wine ; let them setde two days, then strain 
.through a linen clothj and pour the clear liquor into^ 
a bottle for use* 

738. To make a Lacguer for Brass. 

Take eight ounces of spirits of wine, and one 
ounce of aonatto, well bruised ; mix this in a bottle 
by itself; then take one ounce of gamboge, and mix 
it in like manner, to t-he same quantity of spirits :. 
also bruised saffron, steeped, in spirits, to nearly 
the same proportion. After this take seed^lac var- 
nish, what quantity you please, and you may bright- 
en it to your mind by the above mixture ^ if it be 
too yellow, add a little more from the aonatto bottle; 
and if it be too red, add a little more from the gam- 
boge, or saffron bottle: if too strong, add a little spir- 
its of wine, &c. Thus you may temper lacquer or 
Yarnish to whatdegcee of perfection you please* 






VARN ISHES^ 369 

739» To make Chinese Varnish* 

Take of gum-lac in grains four ounces : put it into 
a strong bottle, with a pound of good spirits of wine, 
and add about the bulk of a hazel nut of camphor ; 
allow them to mix in summer in the sun, or in win- 
ter on hot embers, for twenty-four hours, shaking 
the bottle from time to time 5 pass the whole through 
a fine cloth, andthrc^v away what remains upon it* 
Then let it setde for twenty-four hours, and you i 

will find a clear part in the upper part of the bottle, 
which you must separate gently, and put into anoth- 
er phial, and the remains wilt 6erve for the first lay- 
ers, 

740. Varnish to prevent the Rays of the Sunfronk 
passing through the Glasses of Windows. 

Pulverize gum-tragacanib, and put It to dissolve 
for twenty-four hours in whites of eggs well beaten.. 
Lay a coat of this on the panes of your windows 
with a soft bi'ush, and let it dry. 

741. Seed'Lac Varnish* 

Take spirit of wine one quart ; put it into a wide- 
mouthed bottle, and add thereto eight ounces of 
se^d-lac, which is large grained, bright, and clear, 
free from dirt and sticks : let it stand two days or 
longer, in a warm place, often, shaking it, strain 
it through a flannel into another bottle, and it is fit 
for use. • 

742. , Shell'Lac Varnish, 

Take good spirits of wine one quart, eight ounces * 
of the thinnest and most transparent shell-lac, 
which, if melted in the flame of a candle, will draw 
out in the longest and finest hair ; mix ana shake 
these together, and let them stand in a warm place 
for two days, and it is ready for use. This varnish 
is softer than that which is made of seed-lac, ihprc* 



210 REMEDIES rOK DESTROYrNG VERMITT. 

fore is not so useful, but may be mixed with It for 
varnishing wood, &c. 



CHAPTER XXXIV. 

EFFICACIOUS REMEDIES BOK DESTROYlNa 

VEBMLY. 



743. To destroy Anti. 

Ants that frequent houses or gardens may be de- 
stroyed by taking flower of brimstone half a pound, 
and pot-ash four ounces : set tbem in an iron or 
earthen pan over the fire till dissolved stnd united ;. 
afterwards beat them to a powder, and infuse a lit- 
tte of this powder in water ; and wherever you sprin- 
kle it the ants will die, or fly the place. 

744. To destroy Ants. 

Corrosive sublimate, mixed well with sugar, has 
proved a mortal poison to them, and^ is the most- 
effectual way of destroying these insects. 

745. To destroy Beetles* 

The-mode of destroying beetles is when the fire 
is put out at bed-time, to lay a little treacle on a 
piece of wood, afloat, in a broad pan of water.— 
These vermin are so fond of treacle, tha^they will 
even struggle to gain it rri the agonies of death. 

746. Another Methods 

Take some small lumps of unslacked lime, and 
put into the chinks or holes from which they issue, 
it will effectually destroy them ; or it may be scat- 
tered on the ground, if they are more numerous 
than in their holea. 



XEMEDIES rORDDSTROYlJirG^VEftMINi. .371 

« 

'^47, For destroying Bugs and Worms in Wood* 

An eminent physician has discovered that by 
rubbing wood with -a solution of vitriol, insects and 
bugs are prevented from harbouring' therein. When 
the^ strength of this remedy is required to be increas- 
ed, there need only be boiled some coloquintida ap* 
pies in water, in which, afterwards, vitriol is dis- 
solved, and the bedstead, with the wood about 
them, and the wainscoting being anointed with the 
liquor, will be ever after clear of worms or bugs. 
The wall may be likewise rubbed with the compo- 
sition, and some of it may be dropped into thetoles 
where these insects are suspected to be harboured* 
As to the walls, 'they requireqnly to be washed over 
with the vitriol water. 

748. To drive away Crickets. 

These troublesome insects, from a superstitious 
notion that they bring good luck, are frequently 
preserved. Those who wish to have them remov- 
ed will find the smoke of charcoal destroy them, 
and loud pounds drive them away. Cock roaches 
are likewise destroyed by the smoke of charcoal. 

1'49. To destroy Crickets* 

Mix some roasted apple with a little white arsen- 
ic powdered, and put a little of this mixture into the 
boles or cracks in which the crickets are ; they 
will eat it and perish. 

750. Methods of stopping the Ravages of the Cater- 
pittarsfrom Shrubs ^ Plants, and Vegetables. 

Take a chafing-dish, with lighted charcoal, and 
place it under the branches of the tree, or bush, 
whereon are the caterpillars ; then throw a little 
brimstone on the coals. This, however, must be 
done only in very small quantities, lest the sulphur 
-destroy the plants. The vapour of the sulphur, 



372 REMEDIES FOR DESTROYING V£RMII^« 

ivhlch is mortal to these insects, and the suftbcat* 
ing fixed air arising from the charcoal, iVill not on- 
ly destroy all that are on the tree, but will effectu- 
ally prevent the shrubs from being, that season, in- 
fested with them. A pound of sulphur will clear as 
aiany trees as grow on several acres. 

Another method of driving these insects oflTfruit- 
Irres is to boil together a quantity of rue, worm- 
wood, and common tobacco, of each equal parts, 
in common water. The liquor should be very 
strong. "Sprinkle this on the leaves and young 
branches every morning and evening during the 
time the fruit is ripening. 

In the Economical Journal of France, ihe follow- 
ing method of guarding cabbages from the depre- 
dations of caterpillars is stated to be infallible, and 
may, perhaps, be equally serviceable against those 
which infest other vegetables. Sow with hemp all 
the borders of the ground wherein the cabbage is 
planted ; and, although the neighbourhood be in- 
fested with caterpillars, the space inclosed by the 
hemp will be perfectly free, and not one of these 
vermin wiU approach it. 

75 It Liquor for destroying Caterpillaf's^ jints, and 

other Insects* 

Take a pound and three quarters of soap, the 
same quantity of flowers of sulphur, two pounds of 
champignons, or puff balls, and fifteen gallons of 
water. When the whole has been well mixed, by 
the aid of a gentle heat, sprinkle the insects with 
the liquor, and it will instantly kill them. 

75.2. For destroying Caterpillars on Gooseheny 

Bushes. 

Take on^ Scots pint (two English quarts) of to- 
bacco liquor (which may be made, where it cannot 
be purchased, by infusing any kind of tobacco in 
water till all the strength be extracted) which the 



^tlEMEDIES f OR DESTROYlNO VttLUlif* ^73 

manufacturers of tobacco generally sell for destroy- 
ing bugs, andmixthem with about one ounce of alum ; 
and when the alum is sufficiently dissolved, put this 
mixture into a plate, or other vessel, wide and 
long enough to admit of a bru^h, like a weaver's 
brush, being dipped into it ; and as early in the 
season as you can perceive the leaves of the bush- 
es to be in the feast eaten, or the eggs upon the 
leaves (which generally happens about the end of 
May) and which will be found in ereat numbere on 
the veins of the leaves on their underside ; you are 
then to take the preparation, or Jiquor, and after 
dipping the brush into it, and holding the brush 
towards the under side of the bush, which is to be 
raised and supported by the hands of another per- 
son ; and by drawing your hand gently over the 
hairs of the brush, the above liquid is sprinkled, 
and falls in small drops on the leaves; the conse- 
quence of which is, if the eggs are there, they 
never come forward ; and if they have already gen- 
erated worms,||in a minute or two after the liquor 
touches them, they either die or sicken, so as to 
fall off the bush ; at least they do so upon giving it 
a little shake. If, upon their thus falling off, they 
shall not appear completely dead, the bush should 
be held up, and either a little boiling water from a 
watering-pot thrown over them, or a bruise given 
them by a spade or shovel ; or the earth, where they 
lie, turned over with a hoe. This preparation 
does not in the least injure the bushes, 

753. To preserve Mowers, Leaves, and Fruit, from 

CaUrpillars. 

These depredators are destroyed by oils, which 
close the lateral pores by which they breathe. For 
-this purpose it is advised, that on^he approach of 
spring, a cloth, dipped in train oil; be laid on such 

G G 



374 REMEDIES FOR DESTROYING VERMIN. 

parts of the tree in which there is the least appear- 
ance of them. 

754. Method to destroy or drive aroay Earth Worms, 
and other Insects, hurtful to Fields and Gardens, 

Three parts of quicklime, newly made, and two 
parts of soap-boilers lye or potash dissolved in wa- 
ter, will produce a somewhat milky liquor sufficient- 
ly caustic, and highly hostile and poisonous to earth 
worms and other small animals ; for, as soon as it 
touches any part of their bodies, it occasions ia 
them violent symptoms of great uneasiness. If this 
liquor be poured into those holes, in which the 
.earth worms reside under ground, they immediate- 
ly throw themselves out as if driven by some force, 
jand, after various contortions, languish and die. 
If the leaves of plants or fruit trees, frequented by 
the voracious caterpillars, which are so destruc- 
tive to them, be sprinkled over with this liquor, 
these insects suddenly contract their bodies and 
drop to the ground. For, though nature has de- 
fended them tolerably well by tBeir hairy skins, 
from any thing that might injure their delicate bo- 
dies ; yet, as soon as they touch with their feet or 
mouths the leaves which have been moistened by 
this liquor, they become, as it were, stupified, in- 
stantly contract themselves, and fall down.. 

755. To destroy Earwigs and Wood Lice. 

A very simple way of ensnaring them, and by 
^hich they may be taken alive in great quantities, 
is to place iour inch cuts of reeds, bean haulm, or 
strong wheat straw, among the branches, and also 
lay a number on the ground, at the bottom of the 
wall. In these the insects take refuge at day- 
break, as they depredate chiefly in the night ; and 
any time through the day they may be blown into a 
fcottle with a little water in it, and so be drowned. 



RKMEDfES FOU DESTROYIN^G VERMINV 375 

Or, a cheaper way is to burn the straw, and scatter 
fresh on the ground. 

75 B. Rcnudles against Fleas. 

Fumigation with brimstone, or the fresh leaves 
of penny-royal sewed in a bag, and laid in the bed, 
will have the desired effect. 

757. To destroy Fleas on Dogs* 

Rub the aninfial, when out of the house, with the 
common Scotch snuff, except the nose and eyes. 
Rub the powder well in to ihe roots of the hair. 
Clear lime-water destroys the whitish flea-worm.- 
without injuring the skin or hair. Oil of turpentine 
will likewise do' so ; but if there be any manginess,^ 
or the skin be broken, it will give the animal much 
pain. 

758. To clear Gardens of Vermi7iy hy Ducks •- 

Ducks are excellent vermin-pickers, whettier of 
caterpillars (sucbasare within their reacb,)- slugs, 
snails, and others, and ought to be turned into the 
garden one or two days every week throughout the 
-season. Never keep them longer in than two or 
three hours at a time, else they become indolent. 
While here, they should have a litde water set 
down to them, if there be no pond or stream in the 
garden. 

Never turn them into the garden in the time of 
heavy rains, or in continued wet weather, as in 
that case, and particularly if the soil be stiff, they 
patter and harden the surface to the great injury of 
small crops and rising seeds. 

759. The Use of Garlic against Moles, Grubs, and 

Snails, 

Moles are sucli enemies to the smejl of garlic, that, 
in order to get rid of these troublesome and destruc- 
live guests, it is sufficient to introduce a few heads- 



376 REM^DIl&S FOR DESTROYING VERHINL. 

of garlic into their subterraneous walks. It is like- 
wise employed' with success against grubs and: 
snails. 

760. Tht Use of Sulphur in destroying Insects on 
Plants, and its Benefit for Vegetation. 

Tie up some flour of sulphur in a piece of mus- 
lin or fine linen, and with this the leaves of young 
shoots of plants should be dusted, or it may be 
thrown on them by means of a common swansdown 
puff, or even by a dredgfi»g-box. 

Fresh assurances have repeatedly been received 
of the powerful influence of sulphur against the- 
whole tribe of insects and worms which infest and 
prey on vegetables. Sulphur has also been founds 
to promote the health of plants, on which it was 
sprinkled ; and that peach trees, in particular, were 
remarkably improved by it, and seemed to absorb 
it. It has likewise been observed, that the verr 
dtire, and other healthful appearances, were per- 
ceptibly increased; for the quantiQ^ of new shoots 
and leaves formed subsequently to the operation, 
and having no sulphur on their surfaces, served as 
a kind of comparative index, and painted out, dis- 
tinctly, the accumulation of health* 

761. Method of destroying Insects on Fruit Trees. 

. Make a strong decoction of tobacco, and the ten- 
der.shoots of elder, by ^youring boiling* water on 
them ; then sprinkle your trees with the same (cold) 
twice a week, for two or three weeks, with a small 
hearth brush, which will effectually destroy the in- 
sects, and the leaves will retain their verdure until 
the fall of the year. 

If used early, as soon as the bud unfolds itself, it 
will probably prevent the fly. The effect of tobac- 
co has been long known, and elder water frequent- 
ly sprinkled on honeysuckles and roses has been 
found to prevent insects from lodging on them. 



fillMEDI]^ FOR OfiSTROYIKG VERMI!I« d7t 

The quantity to be made use of is one oun<:€ of 
tobacco to one gallon of water, with about two 
handfuls of elder. You may, however, make it a& 
strong as you pkase, it being perfectly innocej^t to 
the plants. 

762. To d^slroy Irtsetts prejudicial to Apph Trees* 

To one hundred gallons of human urine, and ' 
one bushel of lime, add cow-dung to bring it to the 
consistence of paint. With this composition anoint ^ 
the trees. , The month of March is the proper sea- 
son for applying it.. If the white efflorescence-like 
substance, in which the insects are lodged, has 
made its appearance, it should previously be brush- 
ed off. . . » 

763., To destroy' Insecis on Ff^ii Trees* 

Wasps, about the month of July, will begin to ^ 
swarm about the early fruits^ and for their destruc- 
tion, phials should be hung about the branches half 
filled with honey and water, or with sugar and small 
beer. These should be emptied and replaced once 
in two or three days, otherwise they do not take so 
well ; these liltle animals being extremely saga- 
cious, and disliking the appearaoce of their owa-i 
species dead. 

764. To destroy Injects on Fruit Traces* 

Winter is the proper season to apply the follow- 
ing solution. . The juices are then determined to ^ 
tfie root: — 

Soft soap, t%!0 pounds 5' leaf or I'oll tobacco, one 
pound; nux vonrfca, two -ounces; and turpentine, 
naif an English gWl ; boil them in eight English gal- 
lons of soft or river water, to six ; and uae it nUlk- 
warm. 

Unnail, or unftic, all the haunches frofti the wall 
or trellis ; brush every part of the tree clean with a 
soft brush, such as is used for painting ; then, mih 

G G 2 



378 REMEDIES FOR DESTI^OYING VERMIlf* 

a spoQge, carefully anoint every branch, root, and 
bud ; and be sure rub it well into every joint, 
hole, and angle, as it is there the eggs or larvaB of 
the insects are chiefly lodged. The rails, spars, 
&c.ofthe espalier or trellis, should also be anoint- 
ed as above. 

This operation should be repeated every winter, 
ftometinoe between the fall of the leaf and the first of 
February, as may be most convenient. The solu- 
tion is enectually destructive to all kinds of insects, 
their eggs or larvae. 

765. To kill Reptiles. 

Take twelve ounces of quicklime in powder, two^ 
ounces of Scotch snuff, two ounces of basket salt> 
twQ ounces of sulphur vivum, dissolved in ten gal- 
lons of water, and thrown on the insects, either in 
the liquid or powderj will destroy them.. 

766. To prevent Shigsif rem getting into Ftuit Trees.. 

If- the trees are standards, tie a coarse horse* 
bair rope about them, two or three feet from the 
ground. If they are against the wall, nail a nar- 
row slip of coarse horse-^hair cloth against the wall, 
about half a foot from the ground, and they will 
never get over ifc,. for if they attempt it, it will kill 
them, as their bellies are soft, and the horse-hair 
will wound them. 

767. To destroy Snails. 

Snails are great enemies to wall-fruit ; and in a 
8ewy morning you may easily find where they most 
delight to breed ; but the best way is to find out 
their haunts in a hard winter, and then destroy 
them ; they lie much in holes of walls, under thorns, 
behind old trees, or old and close hedges. — If you 

!)luck not the fruit they have begun to devour, but 
et it alone, they will finish their repast on this be- 
fore thfy begin another,, 



llEMEDlEi^ reft» 0C3TRO7vlNa V£RMIN» 37Sf 

768* To destroy the Red Spider ^ so troublesome in dry 

» Seasons* 

The red spider makes its appearance in hot dry 
lyeather, and is always found on the under sides of 
the leaves, generally on roughish leaves^but not al- 
ways so. It prey3 on the apple^ cherry, fig, peach, 
pear, and plum, seklom on the aprkot. k is among 
the smallest of the acari ; and is sbmetiraes not dis- 
tinguishable without a microscope* If the bark of 
the leaf be viewed through one, it appears full of its 
webbs : and if many abound on it, the leaf appears 
full of punctures^, becomes discoloured, and brown 
on the upper surface, fades^ and falls off* 

This insects is morje troublesome in dry seasons 
than in moist ones, and is wonderfully encouraged 
by heat^ insomuch that hot-houses of every descrip- 
tion are sadly infested with it. Water, and water 
only, is its- bane ; and the syringe, or the force- 
pump, the^engine of its destruction. It is nota m^re 
sprinkling that will do; it requires a forcible dash- 
ing to and fro, and that often repeated, to be effee-- 
tuaf.. 

769. To destroy Vermin in Children's Heads. 

Take one ounce of vinegar, one. ounce of staves-* 
acr€, well- powdered,' half, an ounce of honey, half 
an ounce of sulphur, and two ounces of sweet oil; 
mix the whole well together into a liriimentjand rub - 
the head repeatedly with a little thereof. 

770- To destroy Vermin in Granaries^ and others 

Out-: Buildings. 

Cover completely the walls and rafters, abov^- 
and below, of the granaries, &c. which are infested 
with weevils and other vermin, with quicklime 
slacked in water, in which trefoil, wormwood, anA 
hyssop, have been boiled. This composition oughl^ 
to be applied as hot as possible.^ , 



3B0 RSMBDIESr FOR DSSTROTIffG VER«IN# 

771. T& destroy Vermin on Animals* 

Oil of turpentine, vrfien applied to animals, which 
were covered with insects, destroyed the insects 
without hurting the animaL 

772. To destroy Insects on Wall Fruit Trees* 

Take an old tin watering pan, or any similar ves^ 
sel, and make a charcoal fire in it ; add a tube or 
pipe, made of either ti&, kaiher, or stiff paper, to 
the spout, which may be of any su£ci€Q.t leegtb ; . 
then strew some brimstofie, tobaccodust^ fine shreds 
of leather, &e. upon the fire, in the pan^^^and tover 
the top ; having a pair of bellows feady, hold the 
wind-flap ovei? the t«be or pipe to receive the 
smoke, which it will do very effectaaJly when you 
use the belkrws. By this means the suffocating va- 
pour may be directed through the bellowa to any 
part of the tree with the greatest ease and fecility, 
and the tree soon cleared of all vermiih. This method 
is much more effeettial than the old one, where a 
chafing-dish ha^ been recommsended for this pur- 
pose, because the' latter method is more troubrle-^ 
some, and requires the wind to^ blow from a partic- 
ular quarter right against the trees, which can sel- • 
ddm beobtained. 

773.. 7b destroy Wasps and Flies instantly. , 

Wa»ps and flies may be killed very fast, by dip- 
ping a feather in a little sweet oil, and touching their., 
backs with it; they wiltinstantly die. When intent : 
on the fruit, and half-buried in the excavatii^ns tfcey . 
have made, they are easily come at, and are not 
apt to fly about. Insects of different kinds are easi- 
ly killed by oil; it cbses up th& lateral pores by 
which they breathe. 

774. Method of destroying Wasps and Hornets^ 

Those that are not unacquainted with natural his- 
tory know that all the working wasps die every auv 



EEMEDTES FOR DESTROYING VERMIN. 381 

lumn, when the cold weather comes on, and that on- 
ly a few females survive the winter^ and keep up 
the breed. These (which are turgid with eggs, and. 
much larger than the workers) come forth about 
April from their lurking holes, and being singly each.i 
its- nest, which in a moderate time becomes popu**- 
lous. It is therefore of gjfeat consequence to kill as 
many of these as possible, since a whole swarm ir- 
destroyed in every single female early in the year. 
Tho places to find them are at new posts, pales, me- 
lon frames, or any solid timber ; for, as they make 
their combs with the shavings of the sound wood, 
which they rasp off with their fangs, and moisten up 
with a certain, mucus^ that nature has provided in 
their bodies^, they will. readily be found near such 
materials. 

Hornets must be searched for on decayed posts, . 
rails^ &c. for they make their combs with touch- 
wood, and the same kind of natural cement. 

In the very hot summer of 1762, wasps were so 
numerous and alert that it looked as if no fruit could 
have hung till it was fit for the table. They began 
on the grapes before they were half ripe? and, get- 
ting into the melon-frames, scooped out all the pulp 
of the fruit, leaving only empty shells. I tried phials, 
as usual, filled with. sugared beer, &c. this destroy- 
ed some, but did not seem to lessen their swarms; 
at last I bethought myself to buy some birdlime, 
with which I tipped several taper hazel-rods of dif- 
ferent lengths, and so began catching them by hand, 
applying the top of the rod as they settled on the- 
fruit. This appeared at first to be a tedious method 5 . 
but, after a little practice, it soon had the desired ef- 
fect, for a handy person or two would in a few hours - 
entangle four or five hundred ; and it soon appear- 
ed they were not so numerous as we imagined ; and 
the taking the workers starved the grubs, which are 
supported by them, and prevented a succession^ 



382 REMEDIES FOR DESTROvraG VER3IIN. 

By this simple method, rneflectiial as it may appear,) 
I saved my ffuit entire', which hung till it wasripen- 
ed to great perfection. 

Hornets, as they are larger and more sluggish, 
are easily taken : this method of touching them is a 
sort of angling, and not a bad amusement for half 
an hour. As fast as they are caught they must be 
squeezed to death with a flat piece of lath, the tip 
of the rod refreshed with birdliure now and then. 
The reason of providing rods of different lengths is 
to suit the different heights of the wall. 

While I am speaking of fruit it may not be amiss 
to add, that this summer I recovered a peach-tree 
that was cfuite shrivelled up on one side by a par- 
tial -watcrtng, two or three times a week, of the af* 
fected part* 

775. To destroy Worms in Gardens* 

Water your beds with a strong decoction of waU 
itut-tree leaves where there are worm casts ; the 
worms will immediately rise up out of the earth, and 
you may.easily take and cut them to pieces, and fat- 
ten your poultry therewith^ or feed fish in ponds 
with them. 

By laying ashes or lime about any plant, neither 
snails nor worms will come near it. As the moisture 
weakens it, you must, more or less, continue to re- 
new the Kme or ashes. 

776. To destroy Worms in Gravel Wnlks^ ^c» 

Pour into the holes a ley, made of wood ashes 
and lime : this will also destroy insects, if trees are 
sprinkled with it. Salt and water will do as well. 

777. Usefulness of the Wren in destroying Insects. 

As a devourer of pernicious insects, one of the 
most useful birds is the house wren. This little bint 
seems peculiarly fond of the society of man, and it 
must be confessed that \i is often protected by hisf 



interested care. It has long been a custom, in maoy 
parts of the country, to fix a small box at tile end of 
a long pole, in gardens, about houses, &c. as a 
place for it to build in. In these boxes they build 
and hatch their young. When the young are hatch- 
ed, the parent birds feed them with a variety of in- 
sects, particularly such as arc injurious in gardens. 
An intelligent gentleman was at the trouble to ob- 
serve the fturaber of times a pair of these birds came 
from their box, and returned with insects for their 
young. He found that they did this from forty to 
sixty times in an hour-, and, in one particular hour, 
the birds carried food to their young seventy-one 
times. In this business they were engaged the great- 
er part of the day.; say twelve hours. Taking the 
medium, therefore, of fifty times in an hour, it ap- 
peared that a single pair of these birds took from 
the cabbage, salad, beans, peas, and other vegeta- 
bles in the garden, at least six hundred insects in the 
course of one day. This calculation proceeds upon 
the supposition, that the two birds took only a single 
insect each time. But it is highly probable they oft- 
ea took several at a time. 



CHAPTER XXXV. 
WATER. 



778. To make Artificial Sea Water* 

Take common sea salt, two pounds ; bitter purg- 
ing salt, two ounces ; magnesia earth, half an ounce; 
dissolve all in river w^ater, six gallons. These are 
the exact proportions and contents of sea water, 
from an accurate analyzation. 



S84 ^ATER. 

779, Another Method of making Sea Water. 

Take common salt, half ai\ ounce; rain, or river 
water pare, a pint ; spirit of sea salt, twenty drops. 
Mix it. 

780. Easy and expeditions Method of Sssipating (he 
noxious Vapours found in Wells, <J'C. by Ehentzer 
Robinson^ of Philadelphia.' 

(Prom the " Transactions of the American Philo- 
sophical Society."") 

After various unsuccessful trials, I was led to con- 
sider how 1 could convey a large quantity of fresh 
air from the top- to the bottom of the well, suppos- 
ing that the foul would necessarily give way to the 
pure air. With this view, I procured a pair of smith's 
bellows, fixed in a wooden frame, so as to work in 
the same manner as at the forge. This apparatus 
being placed at the edge of the well, one end of a 
leathern tube (the nose of a fire engine) was closely 
adapted to the nose of the bellows, and the other end 
was thrown into the well, reaching within one foot 
of the bottom. 

At this lime the well was so infetted, thatt a candle 
would not burn at a short distance from the top ; 
but, after blowing with my bellows only half an hour, 
the candle burned bright at the bottom: then, with- 
out further difficulty, I proceeded in the work, and 
finished my well. 

Wells are often made in a very slight manner, 
owing to the difficulty of wc«^cing in them, and there 
have been several fatal instances of the danger at- 
tending the workmen ; but by the above method 
there is neither difficulty nor danger in completing 
the work with the utmost solidity. 

It is obvious, that in cleaning vaults, and woric- 
ing in any subterraneous place subject to damps, as 
they are called, the same method must be^attended 
with the same beneficial efiect^ 



^1 ■■■■v|i 



WINES. 3B5 



CHAPTER XXXVL 
WmES. 



781. To make British Champagne* 

Take gooseberries before they grow ripe, crush 
them with a mallet in a wooden bowl, and to every 
gallon of fruit put a gallon of water; let it stan<i 
\ two days, stirring it well; squeeze the mixture well 
with your hands through a hop-sieve; then mea- 
sure your liquor, and to every gallon put three 
pounds and a half of loaf sugar; mix it well in the 
tub, and let it stand ofle day: .put a bottle of the 
best brandy in the cask ; leave the cask open five 
or six weeks, taking off the scum as it rises; then 
make.it up, and let it 3tand one year in the barrel 
before bottled. 

N. B. One pint of brandy is put to seven gallons 
of liquor. 

782. Ta make Koumiss, a valuable Wine of the Tar- 

tars^ 

Take of fresh mare's milk, isf one tlay, any quan- 
tity ; add to it a srxth^part water, and pour the mix- 
ture into a wooden vessel ; use then, as a ferment, 
an eighth-part af the sourest cow's milk that can be 
^got; but at any future preparation, a smaH portion 
of old koumiss will betteranswerthe purpose of sour- 
ing. <>over the vessel with a thick cloth, and set it 
in a place of moderate warmth ; leave it at rest 
twenty-four hours ; at the end of which time the 
milk will have become sour, and a,,jhick substance 
•will be gathered on its top ; then, with a stick, 
made at the lower end in the manner of a churn 
• staff, beat it till the thick substance above-mention- 

H H 



v3^6 WINESk 

ed be blended intimately with the subjacent "fluid. 
In this situation le^ve it again at rest for twenty- 
four hours more ; after which, pour jt into a higher 
and narrower vessel, resembling a churn, where the 
agitation must be repeated»as before, till the liquor 
appear to be perfectly -homogeneous ; and in this 
..state it is called koumiss: of which the taste ought 
to bo of a pleasant mixture of swe^ and sour. Agi- 
tation must be employed every tiise before ft is used. 
1 his wine operates as a cooling anti&aeptic, an use- 
ful stimulant, cordial, and toniq, and^may prove .a 
V:aluable article of nourishment; and it has one ex^ 
cellence, perhaps not the least, that the materials 
from which it is prepared are. cheap, ^.nd the mode 
of preparation simple. 

783. 'Orange Wim. 

Take the expressed juice of eight Set? i//^ oranges \ 

and, having que gallon of water >vhcreJn three pounds 

of sugar have been boiled, boil the water and sugar 

/for tw.enty.n)inutes ; skiin cpnstai^tly, and when cool- 

■ ed to a proper heat for fermentation, add the juice, 

and the outer rind of the juice {fruit?) shaved o6l 

Put all into a.l)arrel, stir it frequently for two or 

three days, and then closely: bung il for six months 

' before itjs jl^ottledj. 

784. Excellent American Wine. 

(Originally commuBicated to the public by Joseph 
Cooper, Esq. of New.- Jersey, Nortjti America.) 

, " I put a quantity, of the comb, -from which the 
honey had been drained, into a tub, and added a 

.barrel of cyder, immediately from the press; this 
mixture, was, well stirred, and left for one night. It 
was then strained before a fermentation took place ; 

,and honey was added, until the strength of the li- 
c[uor was suflScient to bear an egg. It was then.pui 

iiUo a barrel; and after the fermentation commeno 



WINES. S^ 

ecT, the cask was filled every day, for three or four 
days, that the filth might work out of the bung-hole^ 
When the fermentation moderated, I put the bung 
fn loosely, lest stopping it tight might cause the cask 
to burst. At the end of five or six weeks^ the liquor , 
was drawn, off into a tub; and the whites of eight 
eggSj well beat up, with a pint of clean sand, were 
put into it : Lthen addeda gallon of- cyder spirit j 
an^ after mi:S^ing the whole well together, I returned 
it into the cask, which was well cleaned, bunged it 
tight, and placed^ it in a proper situation for racking 
off, when fine. In thfe month of April following, X 
drew it off into kegs, for use;, and^found it equal, in 
my opinion, to aTmost any foreign wine : in the 
opinion of many judges, it was superior. 

" This success has induced' me to repeat the ex- 
periment for three years ; and I am persuaded, that, 
by using clean honey, instead of the comb as above 
described^ such an improvement might be made, as 
would' enaiblie the citizens of the United States to 
€upply themselves with a truly federal and whole- 
some wine, which would not cost a quarter of a dol- 
lar per gallon, were all the ingredients procured at 
the market price; and would have this peculiar ad« 
vantage over every other wine, hitherto attempted 
in this country, that it contains no foreign mixture, 
but is made from ingredients produced on our own. 
farms." — {Dr. Mease edit, of Dr. IVilHMs Domes^ 
tic Encyclopedia^ vol. 5.) 



SSB WAITING". 

CHAPTER XXXVII. 
WRrriNG. 



785. Secret Methods of Writings 

A letter of common business may be interlined, 
by writing with sal-ammoniac dissolved in water, 
or with the juice of a lemon ; these letters will not 
be visible till they are held by the fire ; but a letter 
so written will, in a short time. discover itself from 
the corroding acid and moiAure of the. liquid. So a 
letter, written with dissolved alum, will not be dis- 
cernible till the paper be dipped in water. 

A letter may be written with the yolk, of an egg; 
but when the letters are quite dry, the paper must 
])e blackened alLover with ink, and the confederate, 
by scraping the paper gently with a knife, will ex- 
};::jse the letters written with an egg, while the rest 
of the paper continues black. 

786. An artificial Water for writing Letters of Sc' 

crecif* 

Take copperas, finely powdered, put a little 
thereof into a new ink-horn, pour clean water on it; 
and after it has stood a little while write therewith, 
either on vellum or parchment, and the writing can- 
not be seen any other way than by drawing the let- 
ters through a water thus prepared : — Take a pint 
©f wjiter, put into it one once of powdered galls, 
•temper it together, and straini it through a cloth; 
put the water into a dish that is wide enough, and 
draw your writing through it, and you will read it as 
you do other writings; and to make the secret con- 
' tents less liable to suspicion, you may write on tbe 



WRITING. 389 '^^ 

contrary side of the paper or parchment, with black* 
writing ink, matters of less consequence. 

7«7. Another. 

Take flake-white, or any other whitening, and di- 
lute it in water impregnated with gum adragant. If 
you write with this liquor, the writing will not be 
perceivable, unless you hold the paper to the sun or 
th^ light of a candle. The reason why it is so, is, 
that the rays of light do not pass with the same fa- 
cility through' the letters, formed with this liquor, a&-. 
through the other parts of the paper. . 

788. To write secretly on a Pocket Handkerchiefs ' 

Dissolve alum, in pure water, and write upon a - 
fine white handkerchief, which, when dry, will not • 
be seen at all ; bat when you would have the letters 
visible, dip the handkerchief in pure water, and it 
will be of a wet appearance all over, except where 
'.t was written with the alum water. 

You. may also write with alum water upon writ- 
ing paper, which will not be visible tilt dipped in . 
water. . 

789^ 7*0 write both blue .and red Letters at once with .' 
the same Ink and Pen^ and upon the same Paper. 

Take the quantity of a hazel nut litmus blue to 
three spoonfuls of conduit. water, wherein some gum- 
arabic i* dissolved, and when it has settled the space 
of an hour, if you wj'ite with it, you will have letters 
of a* perfect blue; and- if you dip a hair pencil 'in 
the juice of lemons, and moisten some part of the 
paper therewith, afterwards- letting it dry again, , 
and then write upoa the place where the juice of 
letaons was laid with the blue ink, the lelters will 
suddenly become red, and in all the rest of the p%» 
per they will be blue. 

H H 2 .: 



|!>»<v 



390 WRITINO. 

790i To write different Colours upon the^same Papfr 
' toiik the Juice of Violets*, 

Dip a camel-hair pencil in diluted spirit of vi- 
triol or any other acid, run it over part of the pa- 
per, and when it is dry write upon it with a pen dip- 
ped :in the juice of violets, and the writing will im- 
ixiadl^tely turn to a fine red. — ^ff you write with pure 
violet juice, you have a violet blue.— By running, 
the other part of the paper over with a hair-pencil 
dipped in any alkaline salt, as salt of wormwood 
dissolved in water, and writing upon the same, 
wheft dry, with violet jaice, you have a very fine 
green. Writing upon tincture of steel with violet, 
juice, you have a black. If you write with the juice 
of violets, and rub on one part of the writing spirit 
of vitriol, and on the other spirit of hartshorn, or salt 
of wormwood dissolved, you have red and green. , 
When the writing is held to the fire it becomes yel- 
low. 

791. To write in the Darkf as straight as hy Day or 

Candle Lights 

Write with a pencil on an ivory leaf; for if lines, 
are drawn on the leaf with a needle, or any sharp • 
point, they may be felt by the point of the penciK 

. 792. Method of forming- Letters of Gold onPc^er,, 
and for Ornaments of Writing* 

Pulverize gum-ammoniac, and dissolve it in wa- 
ter, previously impregnated with a little gum-arah^ 
ic and some juice of garlic* The gum ammoniac 
will not dissolve in water, so as to form a transpa- 
rent fluid, but produces a milky appearance: with 
the liquor tbu^ prepared, dravv with a pencil or 
■write with a pen, on paper or vellum, the intended 
figure or letters for the gilding; suffer the paper to 
dry, and then, or any time afterwards, breathe on it 
till it be moistened, and immediately lay leaves gf 



WTT' 



goia^ or parts of leaves cut in the most advanta- 
geous manner, in order to save tbe gold, over the 
parts drawn or writtenupon, and press them gently 
to the paper, with a ball of cotton or soft leatjher : 
when the paper becomes dry, which a.short time or 
gentle heat will soon effect, brush off with a soft 
pencil,' or loiboffbya fine linen rag, the redundant 
gold, which covered the parts between the lines of 
the drawing or writing, and the finest hair strokes of 
the pencil; or pen, as well as the broader, will ap- 
pear perfecdy gold. 

7^3. Simph Method of copying Letters, without the- 

Use of a Copying Machine^ 

Put a little sugar in common writing ink; write 
with this on common sized paper as usual ; when a 
copy, is required, unsized paper is taken, and light- 
ly moistened with a sponge. Apply the wet paper 
then to the writing, and a flat iron, such as is used 
by laundresses, of a moderate heat, being lighdy 
passed over the unsized paper, the counter-proof 
or copy is immediately produced* 

794. To make durable Writing on Paper. 

Dissolve gum-arabic in water, and add thereto ,• 
ivory-black, extremely well ground, and write 
therewith. Acida cannot discharge this writing; 
and if you wish to secure it agaiiist the steams of 
hot water, the writing may be covered with whit« 
of egg clarified. 

795. To preserve Letters from Being opmed. 

Various ways have been contrivedjo open letters,- . 
sealed with wafers only, but the following compo- 
sition is perfectly secure :— Takie fine powder of 
besMi flour ; add thereto white of egg, well whisked 
to a fine liquid ; make a pa«te from this, mixture, of 
which put a little under the sealing place; then 
close the two papers, and hold the part close to the 
steam arising from the spout of a tea-kettle or tea- 



S92 * WRITING* 

pot of boiling water, which will harden the cement^ 
so that it cannot be opened without tearing. 

796, To takeout Writing* 

. When recently written, ink may be cocnpletely. 
removed by the oxymuriatrc acid (concentrated and . 
in solution. The paper is to be washed over repeat- 
edly with the acid ; but it will be necessary after- 
wards to wash it also with lime water, for the pur- 
pose of neutralizing any acid that may be left on the . 
Eaper, and which would considerably weaken it. . 
iut if the ink have been l&ng written, it will have 
undergone such a <;hange as to prevent the precixl-^ 
ing process from taking effect. It. ought therefore 
te be w^ashed with liver of sulphur (sulphuret of '' 
ammonia) before the oxymuriatic acid is applied. • 
It may be washed with a hair-pencil. • 

7.97«. .Method of recovering the LegibUii^ of decayed ' 

Writings* , 

The best method of restoring legibility to .decay- 
ed writings is found upon experiment to be, by 
covering the letters with phlogisticated alkali, with 
the addition of a diluted mineral acid ; upon the ap- 
plication of which, the. letters will change very 
speedily to a deep blue colour, of great beauty and 
intensity. A; solution of prussiate of potash will^ 
also cause the letters to appear blue. To prevents 
the spreading of the colotir, which, by blotting the* 
parchment, detracts greatly from the legibility, the* 
alkali should be put on. first, axid the diluted aci<L 
added upon it. The method found to answer best, 
hfts been to spread the ^alkali thin with a feather 
over the traces of the letters, and then to touch it,* 
gently, as near upon or over the letters as can be 
doiie, with the diluted acid, by means of a feather 
or a stick cut to a blunt point. Though the alkali- 
should occasion no sensible change of colour, yet' 



WRITII«€. 393 

the moment the acid comes upon it, every trace of 
a letter turns at once to a fine blue, which soon ac- 
quires- its full intensity, and is beyond comparison 
stronger than the colour of the original trace had 
been. If, then, the corner of a bit of blotting pa- 
per be carefully and dexterously applied near the 
letters, so as to imbibe the superfluous liquor, the 
staining of the parchment may be in a great measure 
avoided : for it is this superfluous liquor which, ab- 
sorbing part of the colouring matter fromthe letters, 
becomes a dye to whatever it touches. Care must 
be taken not to bring the blotting paper in contact 
with the letters, because the colouring matter is 
soft, whilst wet, and may easily be rubbed offl 
The acid chiefly employed has been the marine ; 
but both the vitriolic and nitrous succeed very well. 
They should be so far diluted as not to be m dan- 
ger of corroding the parchmetit ; after which the 
degree of strength does .not seem to be a matter of 
much nicety. 

798. To revive old Writings rohich are almost defaced^ 

Boil gall nuts in wine ; then steep a sponge into the 
liquor, and pass it oti the lines of the old writing; 
by this method the letters, which were almost unde- 
cypherable, will appear as fresh as if newly done« 

790. To gild Letters on Vellum or Paper. 

. Letters written on vellum or paper, are gilded in 
three ways ; in the first, a little size is mixed with 
the ink, and the letters are written as usual ; when, 
they are dry, a slight degree of stickiness is pro- 
duced by breathing on them, upon which the gold 
leaf is immediately applied, and by a little pressure 
may be made to adhere with suflioient firmness. — In 
the second method, some white lead or chalk is 
ground up with strong size, and the letters are 
made with vhis by means of a brush \ when tho 



39*4 WRiTiNc?. 

mixture is almost dry, the gold leaf may be laid bif, 
ond afterwards burnished. The last method is t» 
mix up softie gold powder with size, and make the 
leU<)rs-of thisby means of a brush. 

800» To nidJce PoUnce^ 

Gum-sandarac powdered a n^ sifted very fine, will- 
produce an excellent preventive to keep ink from 
sinking in the paper after you havje had occasion td 
^cratch out any part of the writing*^- 

001. Another Method; 

Cuttle fish bone, p^-operly dried> one ounces 
best rosin, one ounce ; aad the same quantity ot 
burnt alum, well incorporated together, will make 
very good pounce, eqiiaJ> if rK>t supprior, to any 
bought at the shops* 

^02. Method of obtaining exact ^pies oflnscnp^ 

tions. 

The stone, or other matter, in which the inscrip- 
tion is cut, is to be first well washed and dried ; 
then with printer's balH the surface is laid ovep 
with' printing ink, in the same manner as is laid orv 
types ; one or more sheets of paper, according ta 
tqe size of the inscription., previously damped, are 
then laid over it, and the impression taken off by 
striking the paper with- a clean ball, the hand, or a 
bru^h. 

Three or four copies should be taken in this man- 
ner, as the fourth is usually the most perfect. As. 
the inscription will be reversed on the paper, it may 
be read off right, on the 6ther side, by holding the 
paper against the light. If the inscription is in re- 
lievo, the letters wilj be black ; if in hollow, the 
Icttpr^, wiU. he^ white and the ground black. . 



UI£CELLAN£OUS* 305 



CHAPTER XXXVIII. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS, 

'Which were communicated too late to be inserted 
under, the preceding Ch^pterii. 



8X)3. To make eaxellent Ink* 

Take a pound t)f the best Aleppo gails, haif a 
piound of copperas, aquarterofa pound of gum- 
ararbic, and a quarter of a poH«d of white sugar- 
c^ndy, .Bruise the gatls, and beat the other ingre- 
dients fine; and iniuse them all in -three quarts of 
white wine, or rain-water. Let this mixture stand 
•hot by the fire three or four days.-; and then put it 
•On a 3I0W fire so as to boil. Stir it freqjuently, .and- 
let it stand five or six hours, till one quarter of it 
be evaporated. When cold, strain it vthrough a 
clean coarse piece of linen; bottle, and keep it for 
me. 

The communicator of this good old receipt is con- 
vinced • that much pains have been ta^ken lo ascer- 
tain the due proportions of the galls and copperas : 
,'for he has found that, on diminishing or increasing 
their relative quantities as above, the ink has al- 
'^vays been pale ; but this defect will sometimes hap- 
pen, if the materials be not of the best kind. The 
quality of the paper written on wiUalso make a dif- 
ference in the colour of the ink. 

The grand secret in preparing this ink, which 
will never change its colour^ if properly attended to, 
though kept never so.long, consists in the keeping 
it free from that mouldiness, which, in hot weather 

Karticularly, is apt to form upon the surface. The 
est way is, to put it into a large glass bottle, with 
.aground stopper, and to $hake it frequently. If, 



SD6 M1SC£1LANE9US« 

from sudden heat of the weather, or neglect in 
shaking, the mouldiness should appear, either 
take it off, if in a very small quantity and easily re- 
moved, or otherwise let it accumulate till a thick 
crust be formed ; and then, with a piece of wood^ 
or wire crooked at the end, take it off all at once. 
It is very usual to put ink into an earthen or stone 
jar, which is suspended to some door that is fre- 
quently opened, in order that the ink. may be sha- 
ken. But few doors are either regularly or suffi- 
ciently agitated for the purpose of preventing the 
formation of the destructive vegetable substance or 
mouldiness; and this, being once accumulated, and 
of course not seen in the jar, is shaken together 
with the ink, and the whole is spoiled. You might 
just as well put a quantity of rotten mushrooms into 
a bottle of ink, and expect that it should retain its 
virtue. It has been found that the bruised or pow- 
dered materials of this receipt for making ink, if 
infused in cold water and well strained, will answer 
the purpose, where it is difficuh or inconvenient to 
heat them as before directed. If the ink be requir- 
ed to be more bJack and glossy than usual, increase 
with discretion the quantities of gum and sugarcan- 
dy : but too much of them will make the ink sticky ; 
and which should not be used, where the writing is 
made in. any folding-book. 

804. Qutcks{lv9r» 

Tallow will take up quicksilver. Vinegar -kills it, 

805. To revive a dull Fire. 

Powdered nitce, strewed on thq fire> is the best 
bellows that can be used. 

806. Small Pox. 

\\\ Dr. Lort's copy of " Mead de Varlolis^^'^ was 
written, what was termed " A curious and infai- 



MISCELLANEOUS* ^7 

lible preventive against ever catching the Small 
p4)«," as follows : — 

Two spoon fuU of red Qchre, such as is used for 
markine; Sheep, infused in half a pint of ale, and 
tak^Q seven mornings succe3sively, fasting. 

807. Against the Blatta^ or Cock'-Roackes^ 

Set a glazed baking-dish, filled with small beef, 
•ev/eetened with coarse brown sqgar, in ttre place in- 
fested ; and place a board against it, as a bridge or 
ladder for the blatta to ascend. This is the best of 
a?! the remedies. 

808. Corns and WaHs* 

Applysoft brown "paper moislened with spittle. 
A few dressings will reTmove them,' 

809. To destroy Snails and Sty^s* • 

A few turnips, sliced and laid on the borders of 
the garden' they infest, will atti-act thena in the even- 
ing. 

^Z 1 0. To prevent 'Paper froin sinkings 

If the pjaper us6d in superior editions of books 

*tind which sinks so as to preveht its being written 

on, be dipped in alum- water, it may be written on* 

This practice was adopted by Peiresc. {See- his liife^ 

p; 199^0 

811. To harden Plaster of Paris Cast^. 

Wash them well with a spunge dipped in alum^ 
water. 

S42. To change Hair to tt deep Brown, 

A solution of the silver caustic in water is the 
foundation of all the nostrums for this purpose. It 
naust be well diluted before used.-— 2)r. Moi/es^s 
lectures. 

1 t 



II 



.1 



398 MlSC£tiLANEOt>S« 

813. Peurl Whiter 

Bismuth dissolved in aqua fortis is pearl \ichitc. 

This, though at first it whitens, afterwards blackens 

^the &kin, as ^11 preparations from lead do ; and 

therefore none of them are safely to be used,— £)?:. 

Moyse^s Lectures. 

,.^14. To detect Copper in Liquids » 

'Spirit of hartshorn mixed with them, turns them 

^blue. Therefore tea is not dried on copper, as aj» 

infusion of it is not turned blue by this mixture. — 

. Cyder being passed through brass pots is detected 

. by this experiment. — Ibid. 

815. To take off a Gold Ring sticking .tight on M 

Finger. 

Touch it with mercury, and it becomes so brit- 
tle that a slight blow with a hammer will break it. 

816. To detect the Mixture of Arsenic, 

A solution of blue vitriol dropped into .any liquijj 
in which arsenic has been putwiil turn it green. 

817. To try the purily t^ Spirits. 

See if the liquor will burn away without leaving 
any mpisture behind. -As spirit is much lighter than 
water, place a hollow ivory ball in it; the deeper 
the ball sinks, the lighter the liquor, and conse- 
quently more spirituous* 

818. To raise a Salad quickly. 

Steep lettuce-seed, mustard, cresses, &c. in aqua- 
vitae. Mix a little pigeon's dung with some mould, 
and powdered slacked lime. In forty-eight houcs 
the salad will be produced. 

819. To destroy Grubs. 

Cut a turf, and lay it with the grass downwards 
sJiear the plant destroyed by^te grg.b, and it, will af- 
. tract them. 



\ 



S^O. Against Bums or Scalds^ 

Plunge the part scalded into cold water as soon' 
as possible. Wet it with linen steeped ia rectified 
spirit of common brandy. Poultices and oily appli- 
cations are to be avoided. 

821. A Corn Plaister, 

One ounce of naval pitch, half an ounce of gal* 
banum, dissolved in vinegar, one scruple of ammo- 
fria, and one drachm and a half of diachylon, mixed 
together. — tVam La Forest^ U Art de soigner les 
Pieds.y 

B22. To kstp off Flies. 

Place camphor on or near what you wish to pro- 
tect from them. 

S23. For preserving the Nails. 

- One ounce of oil of bitter Almonds ; one drachm 
of oil of tartar per deliquium ; one ounce of pre- 
pared crabs-eyes. Mix up with essence of lemon to^ 
scent it. 

La Forest recommends rubbing the n^ils with - 
lemon as a detergent. 

824. For taking away superfluous Hair. - 

Quicksilver, two ounces; yellow orpiment, otfe 
ounce; starch, one ounce; litharge, one ounce;' 
sift them through silk, and dilute them with soap 
and water till they become a paste. Anoint the 
part, and let it dry for five minutes ; then scratch 
off the hair with the nail. Wash immediately in 
warm water.-— iVbm La Forest ' L'^Art rfd soigner 
les Pilds. 

823. To make Phosphorus. 

Two third parts of quicklime (i-. e. calcined oys- 
ter-shells), and one third of flour of brimstone, put 



40Q MISC£LLAN£0¥S. 

into a cmcible for an hour, and exposed to tlie air 
for an hour, become phosphorus. 

826. To discharge Grease from Leather » 

The white of an egg applied to the sppt, and dri- 
ed in the sun ; or, to two table-spoonfuls of spirit 
of turpentine, add half an ounce of mealy potatoes 
with some of the best Durham mustard. Apply thi« 
mixture to the spot^and rub it off when dry. A lit- 
tle vinegar added> revives, and is perhaps more. ef- 
ficacious. 

827. To prevent Wounds from mortify ingm 

Sprinkle sugaron iham. The Turks wash fre^ 
wounds with wine, and sprinkle sugar on them* 
Obstinate ulcers may be cured with sugar dissolved 
in a strong decoctioa of walnut leavjes. 

8.28. . 7b discharge Grease. from Paper* 

Burn bones oLsbeep; with the powder rub bath 
fiides of the spot.;, and,. putting white pieces of p?i- 
per on each side, lay the whole in a press. Ref^at 
this process till the spot disappears. 

829. Substitute for Flax* 

Steep broom-riidgs^ or the foi'mer year's branches, 
Cperferring the most vigorous shoots) for two or 
three weeks, more or less, according to the heat of 
the season, in stagnant water; or boil them for a a 
hour in wa^er. This done, the flax separates freely 
from the twigs ; and where there is nat machinery 
for the purpose, it may easily be stripped off by 
children or others, when not quite dry, in the same 
manner as hemp is pulled from the stalky. Wheu 
stripped from the twigs, the flax requires only to be 
well washed in cold water, then wrung and shaken 
well, and hung out to dry, previously to its being 
sent off to the paper^manufacturer, 4^c. — Profbsscr 
Davy has bleached some of it for the Rev. James 



MISCELLANEOUS. 461 

Hall ^to whom we owe this valuable discofcry), 
who has also seen it spun. The same gentleman aU" 
«o observes, that the fibres of all kinds of mallow, 
especially those of the malva sylvtstris^ are particu- 
Mrly beautiful ; they are finer than camel's hair, to 
which they bear some resemblance, and there is no 
difficulty in procuring them. 

What adds to the value of this discovery is, that " 
the broom-twigs, or wood, after being clear of the 
flax, and steeped for some time in boiling-water, 
become tough and beautifully white, and are worth, 
at a medium, from .twelve to eighteen pence per 
pound, for- making carpchbrooms^ &c« 

830. . Econamical Use of Jfulmegs, 

If ai person begin to grate a nutmeg at the ^lallT 
end, it will prove hollow throughout; whereas the 
same nutmeg grated from the other end, would have 
proved sound and solid to the last. This circum- 
stance may thus be accounted for,: — The centre of 
a nutmeg consists of a number of fibres issuing from 
the stalk, and its continuation through the centre of 
the. fruit, the. other ends of which fibres^ though - 
closely surrounded anil pressed by the fruit,-do not 
adhere to it. When the stalk is grated away, those 
fibres having lost their hold, gradually drop out, 
and the nutmeg appearshollow : as more of the stalk 
is grated away, others drop out in succession, and 
the hollow continues through the whole nut. By 
beginning at the contrary^ end, the fibres above- 
mentioned are graied^off at their core-end, with the 
surrounded fi'uit,. and do not Jrop out and cause a 
hole. , 

831. To ascertain the Quality of J^ulynegs-t • 

^ fWl of nutmegs being of great value, it is often 
extracted fromihe nuts which are* exposed to sale,.. 
and which are thereby rendered of very little vaJu€> - 
T.0 ascectain the quality of nut'megSj force a pin in.-. 



iOd HISCEtLANE&US* 

to them ; and if good, however dry they may ap- 
pear, the oil will be seen oozing out all round the. 
pin, from the compression occasioned in the sur-. 
rounding parts* 

832. To increase the Durability of Tiles. 

Recent experiments have shewn that tilies are 
greatly, improved, and rendered impervious to water 
and frosty by being rubbed over with tar before 
they are laid on the roof. 

833. To prevent Bfass Vessels from contracting 

- Verdigris, after being used. 

Instead of wiping them dry, it has been found, 
that by constantly immersit^g them in water, they 
are kept perfectly innoxious, and will remain for 
years, fully as clean and nearly as bright as when 
ihey first came out of the hands of the workmen. 

il34. Improved Mode of preserving Flowers, 

Take three pounds of roses, and rub them for 
two or three minutes with One pound of common salt. 
The flowers, being bruised by the friction of the salt, 
yield their juice, so that a paste is immediately form- 
ed, which may be put in an earthen jar, or in a bar- 
rel, till filled, by repeating the same process* Then 
close it, and keep it in a cool place till wanted. 
When required to be distilled, this aromatic paste 
is to*be put into tlie body of the still, with twice its 
weight of water. Any season of the year will do fop 
this operation. Hence it arises, that all plants being 
vfell salted, need only to be distilled when wanted, 
and may thus be used while all their medical virtues 
are in perfection. 

•35. Vanherman^s Incomparable and durable White 
• Paint for Insidd Work only, which will dry and 
cease to smell within six hours. 

Add to a gallon of spirit of turpentine, two pouads^ 



offpankincenser Let it dimmer over a dear fire, till 
dissolved ; then strain it, and bottle it for use. To 
a .gallon of bleached linseed oil, add a qtmrt of this 
mixture, shake them well together, and bottle this 
also. Let any quantity of white lead be ground ve- 
ry fine with spirit of turpentine ; then add to it a 
sufficrent portion of the last mixture, till it be found ' 
fit for laying on. If, in working, it should grow thick, 
it must be thinned with spirit of turpentine. 1 his i^- 
what painters call a flatjordead white, to distinguish" 
it from common white paint, being only suitable* 
for the very be;st internal work, both on account of>s 
its superior delicacy and expense. . 

836. Useful Knife Board. . 

A common knife-board, covered with thick bufl^* 
leather, on which are put emery, one part,, croci^^.. 
mdrtis^ ihveo parts in very fine powder, mixed into 
a thick paste with a little- lard or sweet oil, and 
spread on the leather about the thickness of a shil-'- 
ling, gives a fai^superior edge and polish to faiives j 
and will not wear the knife nearly so much as the- 
common me thou*ofusiiigbrick-duj^t on board. 

Ii37. • Chapped or Sore Lips- 

May be healed by the frequent application of< 
lioney- water, and protecting ihem from the influence - 
of cold air. 

838. Jiew Mode of marking Sheep, without Injury to 

the Wool, 

Mark, on either side of the no&e of the sheep, the 
initial of the owner''s name, and on the opposite 
side any number by which he may choose to desig- 
nate the particular sheep, by means of a small iron 
letter or figure^ about an inch long ; which, being 
dipped in common oil colours, mixed with turpen- 
tine to dry them mope readily^ is placed on the part 



404 KlSCEtLiUrfiOtfSi^ 

described, and will continue until the next shearing- 
season* The process is easy, and will give the a.ni- 
mal no pain ; the n^arks cannot be readily oblite* 
rated, which is. not the case with tattooing or caur- 
terizing. 

C39. To promote the Growth of .Hair. 

Mix equal parts of olive oil and spirits of rose— 
Uiary, and add a few drops of oil of nutmeg, if the 
hair be rubbed every night with a little of this lini- 
ment, and the proportion bfr very gradually aug- 
mented, it will answer every purpose of increasing^ 
the growth of hair, nauch more eflectuaUy than caa 
be attained hy any of the boasting empirical prepa- 
rations which are imppsed on the credulous pur- 
chaser, 

340. To fatten Turkies as iheydo in Korfolk^ 

The quality and size of the Norfolk turkies aie 
SHperiorto those of -any other part of the kingdom* 
They are fed almost entirely with buck- wheat, 
which, perhaps, may account for theiit excellence, 
and are bred by almost -every little farmer. in the 
county. When young, they demand perpetual atten- 
tion, and must be fed with alum, curds, and chop- 
ped onions ; and the expense- attending their ma-* 
nagomentand food can be compensated only where 
broods are tolerably successfnF, and the prices high- 
When young, they should have a large proportion 
of common pepper cress mixed in their food, or be 
allowed to pick in a bed of it* 

^41. To judge of ike Weather. 

If a person intends to ride any where in winter^-- 
and suspects it will rain, he may know by the fol- 
lowing observation eight hours before the rain comes- 
on ; and so resolve to take a great coat with him, or 
otherwise escape it, viz. Lot him observe the top 
of the mercury in the tubcol a barometer, and if 



rain be about to come, it vriW be indfented or con- 
cave, otherwise, convex orprotuberant. But as the 
barometer is sometimes deceitful^ the point from 
which the wind blows, and the appearance of the 
day is more certain. 

j^42. Substitute for Grease yf or Coaeh Wheels, i^c. 

Mix one pound of hog's lard with half a pound of 
black lead', stir them well together, whilst- melting 
over a slow fire. If the axles and bushes of the 
wheels be true^ a carriage may. safely be run one 
hundred, or one hundred and fifty miles^wilh once 
using the above composition* 

843. Excellent Varnish for Umbrellas, ^c. 

Great coats, and other articles, much exposed to 
the weather, are rendered both sun and ram proof, 
by the following excellent varnish: Boil' well toge- 
ther two pounds of turpentine, one pound of litharge - 
in powder^ and two or three pounds of linseed oil* .. 
When the article is brushed over with this varnish^ 
it must be dried in the sun *, after which, the grealt 
e$t beat will not affect it* . 




Pagt. 



-jfi CCIDENTS^ prevent, 
by leaving pokers in the 
fire, 
, Acid^ Jfitrous^ process fpr 
preparing, for extractiog 
stains from ^aned lea- 
ther, 
Acorn Coffee^, to znake 
. VfgricuZ/urc, receipts rela- 
tive to 1 
Aguty cure for the 
^ir^ to purify bad and infec- 
tious 

, in gardens, method of 
purifying 
A labasUt^ to clean 
Alder^ waste land advan- 
tageously planted lipith 
Ale^ pleasant and cheap 
— — , the u^es of ground ivy 
in 
^^imesy the juice of, may be 
applied to beneficial pur- 
poses, 
Aluniy to detect in bread 
Anderson^ Dr. his method 
of keeping milk and but- 
ter, 
. '^^g^if^y the sport of,^ im- 
proved by attention to 
the dress, 

— — J to prevent taking 

cold while 
, iAnimat Food^ method of 
preserving sweet 155, 6 



223 



343 
171 



, tt seq. 
293 



155 

250 
17o 

2 
ib. 



Page. . 

AmttidoUiy to noiLtous sub- 
stances and animals, 2^7 
Animals^ to prevent death 
from the bite of ^'Venom- 
ous 288 
Antt^ methods of destroy- 
ing 63, 372, 376 
Apples^ method of preserv- 
ing 196, 199 
Apple Trees^ remedy for the 
disease in 261 
, to destroy in- 

377 
247 

200 



.sects prejudicial to 
Arms^ to keep from rust 
Aromatic Herbs^ to pre- 
serve 
J Vinegar J .to 



70 
164 



351 



68 



67 



pre- 

281, 332 

70, et seq^ 

398 



pare 
iris, useful 
ArserUcy to detect 
Asparagus^ to render more 

productive 
Asses MUkj apiidoial to 

make 



/» 



265 
214 



Balsamic Vinegar^ to make 281 
Batk^ method of making new 
, grow on old trees, 347 

— , to make an improved 

tincture of 304 

Barley^ fertilising steep for 53 
Barm^ to make 98 

— — — , substitute for , ib* 



4€IS 



'T^am-Floors^ mietbod 
Diakiag durable 

-, earthen 



TKMS* 



fage. 
of 

41 

40 



148 

145 

158 

ib. 



Seatit, method of preserv- 
ing 
B€d'Cl9ihe9^ hiai» relative 

to 

Beds^ hints on warming 
., Dampy to detect 

Beefy to preservti good dur- 
ing a voyage to the West 
Indies, 

.—>^, Tea, to make 

Beer^ to prevent growing 
flat, 

— , Ginger, to make 

— — , Spruce y 

.— — , Tabky to. make excel- 

.lent 

, to recover sour 100 

■ pricked or 



156 
158 



Biiiefy an exceReirt, Ibr the 
stomach, 30ft 

Blacking, feceipts for mak- 
ing 134 fr 5 

, Bdlh^ ib. 

>, Cakts^ tfrk 



Black Btetiet, to destroy 357 
Painty to -make 



cheap '315 

Bleachihgy -IM), etieq,, 

BUedingy a new styptic to 
stop 302 

, of the nose to 

I itop 383 

too' Biock'TiUy to clean 173 

Ql Blood' Cementy for repairing 

T60 



ib. 



stale, to restore 

— , substitute for 



Bee-Hiresy to make vine- 
gar with the refuse of 187 
Beesy improved ^manage- 
ment of 158 & 9 

, method of increasing 

the quantity of hon^, ib. 

, to remove ib. 

— ., method of preserving 159 

, IVaXy to bleach 94 

, or WtttpSy cure the 

sting of 300 & 301 

Beetlesy to destroy 370 

BeelSy to preserve during 
* winter, 59 

Birch-Tree Winey to make 203 
Birdsy Sir Ashton Lever's 
method of preserving 148 

, Canary y to breed 110 

— — y'Calching 87 

to keep- when, just 



copper boilers, &c. 129 

Blue 'Bottley a plant, the 

useftilness of it described, 296 
Blue ColwBTy to make /rom 
verdigris 314 

ib.\Bones, method bfioftening 77 

160 , to make a' liquid for 

233 



moths 

BlotMomingTh'eeSy to pre- 
vent being- damaged by 
early spring frosts 358 

Boots and Shoes^ easy me- 
thod of cleaning 19^ 
/danger of 



to make the 



1 
• shot. 

Bird jLimey 

best 

' Biscuity to preserve from 

\ patrafftctian 



149 

87 

164 



stahnng 
Books or Papery method to 
■ marble 
, to extract grease 

from 

, method of clest^ing 

. to preserve ? from 



93 

92 

ib, 

146 



putting spirits in, when 
the feet 'are wet, 
, to pre- 



vent' «now or rain water 

penetrating 

, to clean -ttie tops of 

, Tflj?*, chemical liquid 

for 
Bottiesy to make air-tight 
, to make illuminat- 



ed or phosphoric 



147 



138 
137 

ib. 
136 

161 



IXDEX. 



409 



Page 

jBottlef^ io cleac fliai glass 174 

Box Edgings, to cut 252 

Brandy^ method of giving 

malt spirit the flavour of 

good 1 53 

Brass Vessels^ to prevent . 

contraotiug verdigris ^ 402: 

y composition for gild- 
ing "74 
Bread, ferment for making 166 
, made from water 



gladiole 

— , Potatoe, to make 
- — , Sea, to preserve from 
the weevil 

to discover if- adulte- 



165 
ib, 

164 

ib. 

156 

94 
96 



rated witli alum 
Breaili, usefulness of char- 
coal for sweetening 
Brewing, and management 
of malt liquors 

, cheap method of 

•- , substitutes for yeast 

jfor 98 100161166 

Bronze, for plaster figures 70 
Bruise in the eye, remedy 

for a 287 

Bruises, porter-plaster good 

for 
Buck'TVheat, utility of sow- 
ing 
Buckles, mourning, to blue 

, Giit, to clean 

Bugs, remedy for destroy- 
ing 215 216. 
Building, 100 
Bums, cures for 294 399 
Butier, baid tub, to cure 167 
— -, improved method of 
making 

improved -method of 



295 



55 
71 

139 



Page 
Butler, Sali^ to make fresh 168 

, Irish iSa//, method of 

taking the rarikne&& off 167 



Cakes, fumigating, to make 221 
Cakes, management of . H^ 
— — , excellent method of 
rearing 1 19 

•, successful experi- 



150 



salting 

— , to keep 

— , to make excellent, 

from the milk of cows fed 
• upon turnips 
•1 , to take the taste of 

4fae turnips off 



.167 
151 



150 
168 



ment of rearing without 
milk nS 

^ to make hay tea 

for 119 

», to prevent sicknfess 

in 120 

Canine Madness, method 

of discovering 242 

Candles, economy in 220 

Canary Birds, to breed 110 
Canker in Trees, method of 

cui iug the 2^2 

Capsicums, to raise 266 

Camalions, proper meth- 

-odofla-ylng 253 

Carriages, to avoid the ac- 
cidents occurring to open 280 
Carrots, preparation for 57 

, -to preserve during 

the winter, 59 

-,ulility of, for horses, ISO 



Carpets, Turkey, method of 
cleaning, 175 

Carters, advice relative to 46 

Cashew J^uls, to make a 
wholesome food of 220 

Casts, composition to take 
off 71 

Caterpillars, method of de- 
stroying 62 63 

Cattle^ management of, &c. 114 
, food for, ib, 

, the everlasting pea, 

a valuable crop for, ib. 

, to preserve from 

disease, 122 



KK 



410 



INDEX. 



Page 
Caltkj virtues of hay-tea 
for 115 

, Scotch Kale, an 

excellent food for 114 

, diseases of 122 

Cauiijtower^ .economical 

way of cutting, 223 

Cautions to persons visiting 

sick rooms, 278 

Cayenne Pepper, to make 266 
Celandine, cures tetters and 

ring-worms, 225 

Cem€7il, an excellent, for 
wood, 133 

, for broken china, 131 

, for iron flues, 128 

, preparation of com- 
mon, for joining alabas- 
ter, &c. 127 
■Cemenly toresist fire or wa- 
ter, J29 
a strons: 127 

130 



-, Japanese, 



-, Turkey, for join- 



ing metals, glass, &c. 131 
-^i , blood, for repair- 
ing copper-boilers, 129 



-, excellent, (or mof" 



tar) made on the Cots- 
woW Hills, 124 

II I , to restore castfiron 
furnaces.and pans, 129 

, to resist the action 
of fire and water, ib, 

, to stop cracks in 

glass vessels, 133 

Champagne, to make Bri- 
tish, 385 

Charcoal, to prevent the 
baneful effects of burn- 
ing, '288 

, useful properties of 130 

Cherry'Tree Gum, valua- 
ble properties of -219 

^Cheese, to colour 179 

■ , to make Stilton 178 

iChesnuts, Horse, to extract 
.starch from 86 



Chickens, to fatten, expe- 
ditiously 

Chickuoeed, a substitute for 
spring spinage 

Children, to prevent from 
eating food too quickly, 

, danger of their eat- 



Page 



ing gilt ginger bread, 

, to facilitate in cutting 

their teeth. 
Chilblains, to prevent 

breaking 
Children's Heads, to des- 
troy vermin in 
Chvmnies, method of extin- 
guishing fires in 

, to cure smoky 

•, to sweep without em- 



ploying children, 

— — , 'to improve the fire- 
places of 

China, cements for mend- 
ing 

, Ink, to make 



Chocolate, to make, from 

cocoa-nuts 
Cholic, in hqrses, receipt 

for 
Churches, to preserve from 

dilapidation 
, prejudicial to live by 



18S 

168 

ib,. 

176 

290 

296 

379 

243 
105 

70 

105 

131 
310 

169 

242 
109 
277 






the yards of 

diver, good for the scur- 
vy 219 29B 

Clothes, hint respecting, 
catching fire 142 143 

, to make portable 

ballsj to remove spots 
from 340 

, to make water-proof 141 

— '■ , to j3!reserve from 

moths 146 



, to prevent the danger 

of the flames when on fire 14^ 

, to prevent danger 

from wet 14» 

Cloths^ a water to take Uie 
spots out o/ 34^ 



IKDEXf 



411 



Page 
doi'er^ manure for 47 

Coofc/i-fF/ifc/^jSubslitute for 

grease for 405 

Goal-Mints^ to repair roads 

near 84 

Coffee^ remarks on 169 

\ virtues of 170 

-*- , grape-seecU, a sub- 
stitute for ni 
, its effects oq the 

constitution 169 
, the seeds of flowers 

de luce, a substitute for 171 

, to improve ih. 

, to make, from a- 

corns ib» 

»■■*- ■ — ^ valuable substitutes 

for ib, 
, Turkbh mode of 

preparing 170 

Coins^ to take impressions 

or casts of 71 

Cold, to prevent taking, 

vrhile angling 67 

' ,. lute to prepare 128 

, mixture for a 301 

Colours, management of 

313, ei seq. 
Compost, for dunghills 47 
Contagion^ to prevent 278, 280 
Copal' Varnish^ prepara- 
tions of 359 
Copijin^ a Print, method of 322 
Copper^ in liquids to detect 398 
, Vessels^ necessary * 

hints to those who u$e 224 
Coral'Branchcs, (artificial) 

tomake 109 

Corn^ discovery relative to 

the preservation of 67 

, to keep crows from bQ 

— , to keep insects 

from, during long voy- 

164 
-, to preserve in sacks 58 



Page 
Cork'Floals, method of 

making 67' 

Corns, to prevent the 

growth of 296 
and WarlSj to re- 
move '296,397 
Cottons, method of clean- 

141 
, to render less com- 
busiible 24'r 
-, to dye a buff co- 
lour 235 
Court Plaster, to make 296 
Coug/w, receipt for 302 
Cows, parsnips producdve 

of milk in 117 
— , rules for milking 150 



ing 



, to prevent from' 
* contracting bad habits, 

while milking 11.7 
, best method of feed- 
ing and managing ib^ 

, great mcrease of 

milk, from sainfoin 116 

, proper food for 117 

, additional produce 

of milk, how to gain ib. 

Cramp, certain cure for the 297 
Cream, substitute for 224 

, to preserve in long 

; voyages SIS' 
Crickets, to destroy 371 
, to drive away ib. 



ages 



Corks, improvements in, for 
preserving wjiie 162 



Crimson, to stain paper or 

parchment 325 

Crops, culture and man- 
agement of 51 
Crows, to keep from com 55 
Crust, to prevent the for- 
mation of 141 kettles 169 
Cucumbers, new method of 

raising 267 

Curiosities, rules for collect- 
ing on sea voyages 149 
Currier"* S'Oil, substitute for 83 
Currant- Wine, to make 203 
Cushions^ hints relating to 145 



412 



INDEX. 



Page 
Cullery^ to prevent polish- 
ed, takin<; rust 76 
Cydtr^ to preserve in bottles 202 



D 



Dairif^ proper temperature 

for 149 

Damp Bed, to detect 168 

, JValls^ method ' of 

curing 103 
Deafnessi^ remedies for - 296 
Decanters, to clean 174 
^ stopples of, to re- 



162 

2901 



move 
Dentition, to facilitate 
Design, method of copy- 
ing a 
Dilapidations, to pre vent in 

churches 
Diseases ot cattle and sheep 122 
Dishes, improper to water 

plants in 
Dish' Covers, to clean 
Dislilling, simpic waters, 

expeditious method of 
Dogs, to relieve the distem* 

per in 
- — '■ , to know whether 



228 
109 



256 
173 

i53 

242 



mad or not 

-, to prevent the mis- 



ib. 



chief arising from tlie bit« 
of a mad 

Domestic Economy, 

Drains, method of prevent- 
ing ti'je disajjreeable smell 
arisinc? from house 

Down of geese, properties 
of, how ascertained 

— , to improve 

Drowned Persons, method 
of recovering 

■ , to ren- 
der asFistance to those in. 
danger of being 

X>srawing'Desky to make a 231 



2G8 
155 



108 

184 

ib. 

233 



Page 
Drawings, to copy, with 
fixed materials 228^ 

, tracing paper for 223 

' , to transfer any 

\ impression witli vermil- 
ion 229* 

, method' of taking 

off ib, 23(h 
, method of set- 
ting pencil 229 ' 
■, to preserve pen- 



cil or chalk 
4 wash 



for pre- 



serving 



^, to trace against 



ib. 
230r 

228 



the light 

) transparent pa- 
per for 227, 229 
Drink, fop the summer, to 

make a pleasaot 202 

Dry-Gilding, method of 74F' 
Dri/ing-Oil, to prepare 313 
Dry-Hot, cure for 350 

— ' , the cause andpre- 

ventionof ib. 

Ducks, gardens cleared of 

vermin by 
— — , method of fatten- 



iQg 



DunghVls, compost for 
Durability of lilea, to in- 
crease 
Dyeing 
, lif^uid for stain- 



ing bone or wood of dif- 
ferent colours. 
— , art of dyeing 



leather gloves 



black 



to stain wood 

— , to-stain wood red 

, nankeen, to 

make 
Dyeing, to djQ cotton a 

buff colour 

, substitute for gaJis 



in dyeing black 



37S 

47 

103 

233 



234 

ib, 
ib. 

235 

ib, 

ib. 



IlfDEX. 



413 



Page, 
Di/eing, yellow or green, 
method of 236 

-, to etaio horn n imi- 



tatiott of tortoise-^ell, 
-, substitute for verdi- 



ib. 



gris, ia dyeing black, 23? 



E 



Ear J to attract ear-wigs out 

of the 295 

' , to cure a pain in. the ib. 

JSarth'Worms, to destroy 374 

Eurwigs^ to destroy ib, 

-, to kill such as may 

295 

257 



have crept into the ear, 
-, to preserve flowers 



frona 
Earthenware, a new varnish 

for 363 

■ — =■, cement to join. ■ ■ 

broken 131 



•^ £am^oorj,method 



of making ~ 40 

Economy', in*thatchingy' * 39 

-— in fuel, 217 

— in tinder, ift. 318 

— '^^ in candles, 220 

Eau de Lmce^ to make - 329 
Edgings, to make 25^ 

'-^^^ — , Box, to cut ' ibi- 

^SSh to preserve, for a - 

length of time l73, 211, 212 
Eider^ a preservative for - 

plants €ig-ainst insects and ^ 

tiiesi, ^. . 61 

— "— '^iriTie, to make • 204 
Embankments^' to prevent ■< 

mischief to sea 39 

Eiigravings, to cU&n '- 323 

Essences and Essential Oils^ 

to make without the help 

of fire or distillation, 326, 827 
Essential Salt of Lemons, to 

make 



Page, 
Essence of flowers to ex- 
tract 326 

of soap, for sbav- 

332 
44 
48 



<nff> 



Evergreen Hedges, to train 
Experiment with manures, 
Eye, rules for preserving the 
sight of 283, €/ac^. 

~, ta cure a bruise in 

287 



the 



''i 



Farmers, tiscful hints to 39 

Farm-Offices, ib, • 

Fallow- Grounds, to employ 
to advantage 37 ' 

Feathers, method of clear- 
<ing, from their animal oil 72- 

Feett to preventcorns grow- 
ing on , 296 ' 

Fences maiking and man- 
agement of 43, €t seq. 

Ferment, for making bread, 366 

FiUratian oC Whter . 194, 195 - 

Fire, hints respecting wo- 
men^s and children's 
clothes' catching - 142 

- — ^, method to ^escape 
' from 244 

:, to extricate horses 

from * 243 

— r-^,-to prevent hay-stacks 
taking 52 

— -=-^, to stop on ship-board 246 
to preserve wood 



from, and from decay, . 106 
— , to prevent accident?, 
by leaving pokers in the 223 
— , to render water eflS- 
cacious in extinguishing 
— , dvXl^ to revive* 
', to prevent wood, Kn- 



245 
396 



I en, &c. catching 244 - 

326,-^ — , to extinguish speed- 
£«Mfu»of malt, to extract 100] ily . 24^ 



-» 



xs2 



414 



lNf»£X* 



Page, 
Fire Anm^ the neccaeitj of 

precaution in loading; 248 
— , Bottle^ to make the 239 

, method of extingaiflh- 

iog, in chimnics 243 

—• ^, IaUCj to prepare 128 

, Placesy to improve 
chimoejr 105 

, Works, improvements 

in making 250 
jri«&) to cure tainted 157 
, to intoxicate 69 
, to preserve &ithe Por- 
tuguese manner, 
Fishings roles for 

' lAnts^Xjo prevent the 



rotting of 

^ e»sy method 
of Eyeing, 

■— Rodsy to preserve 

) to make cork doats 



for 



for 



-, to mak&qiiill floats 



155 

68 

67 

ib. 
65 

67 

66 

Flax, a substitute for IB, 400 
Fly^Fishmgy rules for 68 

Blown Meat^ to purify 157 

Fleas, remedy against 220 

iJ^^iM, to destroy 360,399 

Flint-Glass BeUles^ to elean 174 
Floors, method of making 

durable bam 4^, 41 

Floats : See Fishing, 
Floor-Cloihsip to clean 173 

Flour, to discover if adiil- 

terated 163, 164 

— , method of malung, 

witkout grain, 166 

FUngerB, when to plant ao- 

Dual and perennial 
— — , to remove, in. suukp 



mer. 



^ngs 



to preserve from 



256 

257j 

«6. 



of 



>, to preserve the seed 
-^aiethod of preseyv*' 



258 



ing and e&tracting essen- 
ces from 326 
-, to grow during win- 



117 

loa 
saxy 



I 



ter, 257 

Flues, cement for iron 128 

Fly Water, to make 220^ 

Ffj/ in. Turnips, to prevent. 

the 63, 64 

Food, Animal, method of^ 

preserving sweet 155, 156$- 157 
, most proper for milch 

COWSj 

, to prevent cfaiidien 

eating too quickly 

Foul Rooms,' to fumigate 

, to ponfy the 
air of 16^ 

Foreign^ Seeds, method of 
facilitating the growth of 252^. 

Foot^ method to recover a 
violent sprain in the 299 

Forest^Trees, to promote 
the growth of 346. 

Frost-bitten v^etabks, &€^ 
to recover 199 

Freezing, to pvevent water* 
pipes in winter - 182: 

Fruit, a method of preserv- 
ing all the year 199 

' ,to grow, during win- 
ter, 257 

frosted, to recover 199. 

— , ripe, to manage for a 
desert 200 

■— — Stains^ to take out 341 

Trees, to cure, when 

infected with an easterly 
blight, 26^ 

— — , bad eflbcts of 
iron nails on 261 

, to destroy in- 
sects on 378,379- 

, to improve, by 

attending to the soil, 250 

, Chinese me- 
thod of propagating i6^ 
■ I j 19 prevent 



■•• # '■ 



tsrD£Sv 



415-i 



Page, 
from being ^uasaged by 
spring frost, ' 258 

', orby hares or 

260 



rabbits, 



-, growth of, to 
promote 
— , WqXI^ method of prun- 



iDg 263 

J^Mc/, economy in 2-17 

F'umigating Cafce^^to make 22 1< 
FuTtUgoHon PowdeT^ to 

make a valuable 280 

Furniture^ varnish fo r 1 76 

Purs, to preserve 140 

— ; — , methods of preserving 

from moths ih. 

Furze, very-beneficial as ar. 

wtiaer food for horses, 121 



155 

3J76 
302 
307 



GalU^ a substitute for, in 

dyeing, 23S 

Game, method of preserve 

iog 
Gardens cleared of yermiii 

by ducks, 
Gargle for a sore throaty 
Garlic^ use Ail -properties of- 
OaS'Light^ method of pro- 
ducing on a small scale 
Geeife, method of fattening 183 
— ^, rules for plucking 184 
— , to improve the (town 
of 

,to ascertain the pro* 

perties of goose down, 
Gliding^ iron or steel me- 
thod of 

, Dry 

brass or silver jCom? 



Page. 
Glass^ cement ta mend 
broken 131 

, process for painting 

on 241 

, to cut 75 

, to stop cracks in 133 

Globes^ to silver. 75 

Glasses^ to restore-, wbea. 

tarnished, 174 

Glaziers^ to prevent the ef- 
fects of tlie poison of lead 
on 287 

Gl&oeg^ art of dyeing lea- 
ther 234 
Gold, to clean 74 
— and ^ Silver Lttce^ to 

clean 174 

— — , to cleap and restore 
its lustre, 74, 138 

, Shdij to make 74 

RiTig^ to take oS from 



398 
125 



a finger 
Glue, au^xcellent 
, Lip, for joining pa- 
per, silk, or tbior leather, 126 
—5 common, useful pro- 
perty, of 127 
, parchment 126 
Gnats, to alleviate the paia 
239|' occa»oned by the stin^ 
^ of 300, 301 
Gooseberry: CkiierpUlairti' to 
destroy the 372 
' '■ ' Vmtgoft^ to 



tbi 

73 

74 



tb. 



make 
Goose-Dmon^ to ascertain 

the properties of 
— — Gra«i,>'usefulness of 

-, Ointment^ to 



position for 

Gilt BucUes and Twys^ to 
clean 

' Gingerbread, the dan- 
ger of children eating 

Ginger Beer, to make w . . 

Gkus'Stoppies of smelling* 
bottles, how looseaedi Ui^ 



139 

176| 
97 



make 

-— ^ Qutl^ Dutch method 
of preparing, for vtrritin^ 

Gritnaries, poplar wood for 
the flooring,, a preventive- 
against the destruction of 
corn by weevils and io- 
Mcts,- 



186 

184 

21d 

29a 
83 



42 



416' 



INDEX* 



Page. 
Crranaries, to destroy ver- 

miQ in 379 

Grapes, to preserve 196, 261 
— fVine, to make 204 
Seedsy a substitute 



for coffee 

GratSj Striped^ recommend- 
ed for hay, . 

— — Lands, to protect from 
pismires 

Ri/e, when to cut for *» 



17 r 



57 



63 



52 



Page. 

Hair, superfluous, to re- 
move 390 

— ^ preparation of a liquid ♦ 
to convert red jor light- 
coloured into a deep 
brown, 333,397 • 

-i*«trrfcr, to • know 

whether adulterated with 
lime, 333 > 

; to perfume ' ib. - 



hay 
Gravel Walks, sure method 

of curing * 233 

Greasc'Spois^ method of • 

discharging, from woollen - 

cloths 341 
, to take from the - 

ieaves of books, paper, . 

&c. 92, 340 

■ ' i -to. extract from 

92 

400 

405 
236 

325 



Hall PavementSj mixture 

for cleaning . 
Hand, method to recover 

a ^violent sprain in the 
, to' prevent inconveni- 



ence from the perspira- 
• tion of the ^ 
HiiU, a varnish, for ctraw 

and chip ^ 
, to prevent b^ing spot- 



books - 

-, to discharge from 



leather 

-, substitute for coach 



^v heels. 
Green, method of dyeiogf 
— — , to stain paper, ot 

parchment 
— House, situation for, 

and management of 
Gifottix, economical method 

ofoformlng and ornament- 
ing <a<- -• 
Ofound-Ivy, use of, in ale^ 
Grubs, to destroy t 
GvLms, tincture for the-'. 

-, rules for preserving 
Gum, valuable properties of 

the cherry-tree 
Gun-Barreh, to brown 
Gunpowder, to increase the 

force of 
, to ' recover 

damaged 



ted by ram, 
Hay, striped grass, recom- 
mended for- 

Stacks, to prevent tak- 



ing fire,i 
Tea, 



c aires, 



to make for- 
virtues of, - for 



175 
299 



185 V 
139 

ib, >• 
51^ 
52* 
119 



250 



109 
.97 
398 
292 
291 

219 
247 

248 

ib. 



115 



cattle, 
Hasei'JSTuis^ to preserve for 

months 200'? 
JSTut, the usefulness of 

in brewing - 100 • 

Health, rules for preserv 

iog in winter 277^ 

Hedges, evergreen, to train 44 
Hemp, A substitute for 75,^ 400 • 
H^ts, to preserve 328 

— — , to propagate - 264 - 

- and F-lowers, in sum- 



Hair, ■ to « 
growth of 



H 



increase 



the 
333,404 



mer to be transplanted in- 

the evenings, 257 » 

Herb-Tea, to make British 210 
Homassell^s {Mi) cure for • 

buros and scalds, 293 

Honey, method of iocreasr- 

ing the quantity of 158 » 

Hooker, (Mrs,), her com- 

pcsi'.ioiiforpainling^. 318- ^ 



moEx. 



417 



/ 



Page. 
Haps, to extract the virtue* 

of in brewing 96 

Ilom^ to stain, to imitate 

tortoise shelJ, 236 

IlomeiSy method of destroy- 
ing 380 
H'orse-Chemuis, method of 

extracting starch from 8$ 
, utility of in 

bleaching, 96 

Horsesj to extricate from. 

fire 243 
, to cure the eholic 

in 1242 

I , utility of cawots - 

for . 120 

— inferior to oxen 45 



/nfc, to prevent moulding, 310^ 

, to remove spots of 342, 345 

, permanent, for mark- 
ing linen, 145, 3tl 
Injlction, to' prevent 280^ 
Insects^ a varnish for pre- 
serving 365' 
, methods of destroy- 



, utili ty of furze for 121 

Jftmse-Drains, to prevent 
the disagreeable smell 
arising from 221 

Hungary- fValer^ to make 329 
Mifslerics^ method of pre- 
ventmg^the., 279 



I 



Imprettion, to transfer any, 
with vermilion 229 

__ — of leaves and 
plants, method of taking 
off 79 

- on paper, from 

designs made on stone, 240 

Incense^ cakes of, for per- 
fuming apartments,- 

/n&, an indelible writing 

— — , CAtritt, 

, Indian^ substitute for 

•, to make 



221 
313 
310 

i&. 

ib. 
313 
311 
309 



— , of the ancients, 
— , Printing^ to make 

—, Hyvipalhetic or /wrm- 
ble 312 

— , to make a black jap- 
an ' 309 
--i excellent to make ib. 



ing those which aUack 

fruit-treey, 37 \\ et seq, ' 

Irish Halt BiLttefy method 

of taking off the rank- 
• nessi . 167 

Jrimf useAil process relative 

to • 76, el seq» 

- — , to prevent rusting, 76, 17ft 
— •, to ckar, from rust, 76^ 



-, to gild 



73 

^— — , solder, 76' 

— , lead-coloured paint, 

to presen'e and make 314 
Moulds^ to take out 

of linen 342 

-r — J^ails^ bad effects of, 

on fruit trees, 261 

Ivori/^ to soften ■ 77 ' 

— — Leave^^ for miniature 

painters, to prepare 324" 

h% Ground.^ the uses of, 

in ale 9T* 



Jessamine pomatum, to 
make 



326 



Kale^ Scotch^ excellent for 

cattle 114 

Ketchup^ IValnuty to make 201 
Koumiss J to make • 385 



Lace J gold and silver, to 
clean ^74 



418 



INDEX* 



! 



Lampn^ to prevent the 
s.-noke of, beiijg hurtful 

, economical wicks 

for 

Land^ experiment in ma- 
nuring 

— — , waste, advanta- 
geously planted with al- 
der 

Lameness^ remedy for the 
' cure of 

Lamplighters, hints to 

Larks, method of catching 

Laurus, sassafras, and ben- 
zoin, to obtain arometic 
oils from 

Lavender, to make quint- 
essence of 

' ^ Oil, sophistica- 
tion of, to detect 

Water, to make 



Page 



Leather, process for pre- 
pariTig nitrous acid for 
extracting stains from 
tanned 

— *' Gloves, art of dje- 



223 
ib. 



48 



38 

297 
78 
89 



327 

ib, 

79 
328 



mg 



343 
234 



Page 
of preserving birds and 
beasts 14Sr 

Light, by J^ight, to make 

a continual 203 

Limeafone, method of ascer- 
taining its properties 
Linen, caution in washing 193 

, to take mildews 

1C6' 
145 



50 



out of 
, to perfume 



ed 



to restore scorch- 
permanent inks, 



for marking 
, the fumes of brim- 
stone useful in renjiov- 
ing spots or stains in 

to render less com* 



146 



143 



bustible 
Linen, to prevent, from 

taking fire 
Linseed Oil, to whiten 
Varnish^ 



to 



78 



Leaves of Trees, method of 
taking off impressions 

— , when, 

should be collected for 
pharraacetiiical purposes 264 
to obtain the shape 
. ofa 79 

Jjeeches, observations on 304 
Lemons, to keep 197 

— ; , to preserve, dur- 
ing a long voyage, the 



Leaf, 



a 

juice of 



Juice, to purify 



195 

Letters, to gild, on vellum 
or paper 390, 393 

— , to preserve from 

being oi^ened 91 

, to copy, without 

the use of a copying ma- 
chine ib. 

Lever's (Sir A.), method 



prepare 
Lip' Salve, to make 

Glue, to make 

, chapped or sore, re- 



medy for 
Lute, Fire^ to prepare 
, Cold^ 

M 

Modeless;, method of dis- 
covering canine 

Mahogany, balls for beau- 
tifying 

, substitute for 



340 

244 

i&. 
79 

365 
330 
125 

403 

128 

ib. 



242' 

176 

82 
furniture, to clean 174. 

Malt, to extract the essence 
x)f, for brewing 100 

— Spirit, method of giv- 
ing it the flavour of good 
brandy 15Ji 

Malting^ niceties in, to in- 
crease the profit of the 
malster 94* 



"■^' 



IN0EX* 



419 



iManureSj in general 
, compost ma- 



Page 

47 



nures 



experiment in 
manuiing land 

, for Clover 

-, pigeon's dung use- 



ful as a 
Marble^ method of clean- 



ing 



ib. 

48' 
47 

ib. 

rib 



books or paper, 



MUk^ to keep 
— , to make old man's 
— -, of Roses^ to make 

Milking of co^s, directions 



Page 

ib, 
326 



for 



150 



to 93 

J{frttr/e, method of ascertain- 
ing its properties 60 

J^attrasses^ hints relating to 145 
^.Meat, to purify Jy-blown 

155, 156 

, to sweeten tainted 157 

— , to preserve in long 
voyages ib, 

, improved mode of 

salting 167 

— , to preserve, in hot 
v«^eather 156 

—, to preserve in the Por- 
tuguese manner 155 



, to preserve by trea- 
cle 156 
.Medahj to take off 71 
..Melons^ to prevent irregu- 
lar growth of 268 
J^I essotinlos, to make 323 
,»Mice^ to prevent destroy- 
ing early-grown peas 64, 269 
J^ilch Cows^ additional 
quantity of milk by keep- 
ing in the house 

s great increase 



Mildewj to take out of lin- 
en 

Mites or Weevils^ method 
of destroying, in grana- 
ries 

MoJasses^ rendered fit for 
using instead of sugar 

Moss^ to destroj', on trees 

Moihs^ preventives against 
the ravages of the 140, 146 

Mourning-Buckles^ to 
make blue 71 

Mouse'Trapj a never fail- 
ing .356 

Muniy to make .202 

Mushrooms^ to produce 268 

Mutton^ to preserve good, 
during a voyage to the 
West Indies 156 

N 



186 



59 

114 

261 



117 



of milk from, feeding with 
sainfoin 

-, most proper food 



JV*ai/5, bad effects of, on 
fruit-trees 261 

(human) to preserve 399 



Milk^ to make artificial 
asses' 

Hwnany substitute 



for 

— , to take the 
^e turnip off 



taste of 
150, 168 



JVdnkeen-'Di/ey to make 235 
Kaples Yellow J to prepare 

the 317 

J^oon^ way of determining 

the exact time of the 80 

Norfolk^ mode of fattening 

turkies ^ 404 

Nose^ to stop tiie bleeding 
il6 of 303 

Js'utmegs^ to judge the prop- 
117| erties of 401 

} , economical use of i^, 

214j^'*M/«, Cashew^ to make a 

wholesome food of 220 

213 , Hazel^ to preserve 

for months .gX)0 



^2C 



INDEX* 



Page 
^uis^ "Hazel, the usefulness 
of, iu brewing 



100 



O 



Oafs, to keep from becom- 
ing; musly 59 
Oil, Arotnalic, to obtain 
from the pellicle of the 
]auru9, sassafras, and 
benzoin 

y Currier's^ substitute 

for 

, Sivcetj to make 185 

. , Drying, to prepare 113 

of Lavender^ to know 

if ad'jlterated 79 

~- Turpentine ib. 

_.— J Linsted, to whiten i/>. 

, Paint, subsliiute for .315 

, Paintings, to rlean -322 

^ varnish for 364 

Onions, to obtain a good 

crop of 
Oranges^ to keep 
Otto o/Roses^ to inake 
Oxen, advantages ofplough- 



PagB 
dry and cease to. fimel) in 
six hours 4(]f^ 

Painters, to prevent tlie ef- 
fects of the poison of lead 
on 287 

Painting, Mrs. Hooker^s 
composition for 318 

rooms, rails, &;c. di- 

313 
i?4l 
322 



rections for 
--^, process for, on glass 

(Oit) to clean 

3^7jPa/i7ig-, a composition for 
preserving 
W^t^ Paper, to render less com- 



ing with 



368 
197 
329 

45 



bustible 244 

— HangingSy ^method of 177 
cleaning 
-, to gild letters on 390, 393. 



, or Parchmenty A.e 

stain crimson 



stain green 



stain yellow 



to 



325 
ib. 



ib. 






prevent from sinking 397 



to 



400 



Paint, cheap, for weather- 
boards 44, 316 

, Oil, substitute for 313 

, Black, to make - a 

cheap 315 

, Brown, to make a ib, 

, Milk-white, to make 

a good .402 

, Transparent, to judge 

of 324 

, Lead-coloured, to 

make a, to preserve i.'on 314 

, to take the smell off, 

.from rooms 178 

, yanfiennan'^Sy will 



extract grease from 
Parchment, Glue^ to make 

125, 126 

Parsley, sown with rape- 
sepd, a ,pres€ivative a- 
gainst the resp in sheep, 123 

Pavsnips, producti'Ve of 
milk in cows, 117 

, to preserve dur- 
ing winter . 59 

Paste or Food, for singing 
birds, to make 2^7 

-, bookbinder's strong, 93 

, to make patent 125 

Patterns for working mus- 
liu, to stencil 32^ 

Pavement, mixture fpr 
cleaning 175 

Pearl White, 398 

Peas, advantage of sowing, 
in circles, 26S 



llfDEXi 



421 



Page, 
Ptas, 5re6it advantage gain- 
ed by the cultivation of 
the everlasting, as a crop 
/for cattle, 114 

.-, .1^ to pre veat -mice des- 
troying early sown 64, 269 
■Pencil and Chaik Drawmgt, 

to preserve - 
.' ■■ Drawings^ -method of 

setting 
Peppery description of^ and 

to make Cayenne 
Perfumes^ preparation, ice 

of 
Perspiration of the hands, 

inconveaiencc of, to pre- 
vent 
Petalt of plants, to preserve 

the colour of 
Pewter^ toclean 
Phantasmagoria^ to make 

transparent screens for 
Phosphorus^ to make 

.-^^Sottles, tomake 

239 & 240 
Match-Botllcy 



229 
230 
266 
323 



185 



^age. 
Plants^ to preserve the co- 
lour of the petals of 

, to air in rooms 

— — , to preserve the seeds 
of those in a state of vege- 
tation, 

-, to take impressions 



73 
260 



251 



of 
Plated Goods^ to clean 

-, to make pow- 



78 
139 

218 



der for 
Plaster Casts or Mod^U^ to 

varnish 362 

— — — r^, to harden 3'97 

ft- , figures, to bronze, 

^0 



Ploughing with Oxenj-great 
advantage of 
•73 Poison of the Deadly J^ight 
173 Shade^ cure for the 

of lead, to painters, to 



241 
395 



to make 

— Pencil^ to make 



Pigeons-Dung^ utility of, as 
manure, 

— — , method of fatten- 
ing, see Poultry. 

Pigs^ profitable wayof/at- 
tcning, 

Piis^ to purify the muddy 
water of 

Pismires^ i'a preveftt the- in- 
crease of, in grass lands. 

Plantations^ method of pre- 
venting hares and rabbits 
from barking 

■ Plants, preservation of suc- 
culent 

", preserved from in- 
bt^in and flies by the ap- 
plication of elder, 

— , improper to be wa- 
rred ill diiihesy 



239 
ib. 

47 



116 

191 

63 



260 



prevent the ill effects' of. 
■ ■ , to counteract the ef- 
fects of 

Pohersy improperly left in 
Uje fire. 

Polished Iron Stoves^ to 
•clean 

Meialf to keep from 



rust 

Pomade-Diii,fie, to make 
PondSy method of draining 

in level ground 
, to keep free fr<wi 



45 

2d9 

287 

289 

223 

178 

76 
331 

43 

4S 



weeds 
Pomatum, to r\£ke "both 

hard and soft 326, 331 

Poplar-Wood, virtues of, for 

flooring of granaries, 42 

Poppy, to make sweet oil 

froiii 185 

, useful properties of 308 



id^Porter Plaster, for bruises, 295 
Portuguese mode of pre- 
serving fish and mefit, 15S 
Hl^ Potatoes, instructions for 

raising 56 

236 



LL 



432 



TSir>BBL. 



Ptlge. 
Poiakwtj method of preserv- 
iog 198 & 199 

-»•, to .make bread 



iroa 



■^^ 



to .restore «*hen 
froflt-blHeD, 

-, to make size from 



16^ 

19$ 
125 

179 



Paulttyy to fatten 

■ ■I , D&w^ethod of rear- 
ing 179, t83 
.Poimrc, tomake 194 
. P&uxler, to make a r&luable 

fumigation, 200 

. ■ Mt:^a!sinerU> lessen 

the ill effects of hiimidiij 

to 247 

iPrimroie^yinegar^ to mzke 188 

PrmHng'Ink^ to make 31 1 

J*ri$Ut or Bookt, method of 

eleaoiflgdiKy 322 

, Pictures or Drmffings, 
to take a c opj of instant- 
ly, ib, 
, PrtM«, tQ prevent disagree- 
able smells from -108 
.Pruning 0/ WaU-Fruit^ -263 

Vints, .264 

. Punc^ to make excellent 202 
Puriiy of spiiits, to- try 398 

Putrtfaction^ ?4o preserve 

biscuit from 154 

PuUy<f to make . 314 

Q 

■i^iclaet Hedge orFenccj to 

make a 
• Q^uicksihtTf 

QuUlt^ to make floats from 
for fishing. 



43 
396 

66 



R 



PAg9, 



Aa(fit^^ method of'x:D]ti- 
valing 276 

Hankness of butter to ciie 167 

RatiyDr, TaylorV method 
of destroying 337 

, and othervermin, me- 
thod of des^yiog, 336, 33^ 

BazoT'Straps^ management 
of 

Red Spurgi^ the useful pro- 
perties of 

Refrigeraior or Coniennr^ a 
cheap 

Reptiles, to kill 

Resp in Sheepyfi^rsley sown 
with rapeseed, a^reserv- 
ative against the 

Rheumatisms^ preventive of 
aotumndl 

Rhubarb^ Garden^ to culti- 
vate 272 
, rMrfcsyy method of 



22S 
226 

152 

378 



12^ 
278 



cultivating and curing, 
from the seed 
Riversy to purify the muddy 
waters of 

, embankments of, to 



prevent from being injur- 
ed 

Roadsy to repsdr near coal- 
mines, 

RoomSy to air plants con- 
tained in 

, to fumigate and pu- 



rify foul 
* to take 



the smell 



of paiat from 

, ventilator for 

Roots of trees economical 
use of 
-, to harden »6.|l2ofe«, to grow during win- 

^ 'DtUeh method of , tcr, 



-^ method of clarifying . 8^, 



ib. 



preparing for writing, 
igtctn/efcence of lavender to 
e3Ltcact 326 



-, milk of 

-, to make otto -of 

-, the water from 



273 
191 

39 

84 

250 

28^ 

ns 

108 



225 



257 
t;26 
328 

a. 



rVDESV 



423 



Page, 
Rtrt:, ihh^ cause and preT«ii- 

tioaofthedry 350 
, in sheep ^ ciKfe of the 1:23 



easy method' Shcmng, ccan^pos^mfor 2^2-^ 

Sheep^ to preserve y ia nin- 
ter, tn 

, to prevent the resp iff 123- 



oTpreveftUng the ih 
Rtist^ to clear iron from 178 
, to preveat cutlery^- 

taknig 76 
^j to talcB off steel 177 



— , to prevent iron and 



jiteel taking 



178 



Russian mode of cons(ruct- 
ing artificial stone-floors, 

Rt/e'GrasSy when to cut, for 
hayj 



100 



52 



covering, when sufficient- 
ly ripe, 61, 2&1 
— J preparation for wing- 
ed . 57 



Sage^ the virtac? of 210 

iSaititfoiii^ productive of 

milk in COWS) 116 

Sctlad^ to rake quickly 398 

Halt BuUer^ to make fresh 168 
Scalds^ cures for 293, 2d4, 399 

, vinegar efficacious in 

the cur« of^^ 294 

Scorched Linen^ to restore J46 
Scotch JCdle^ an excelleDt 

food for cattle. 114 

Sereensy transparent, for the • 

Phantasmagoria, 241 

Scurvy, to cure the 219, 298 
Sea embankments^ to pre- 
vent mischief to 9 

Sickness J to prevent 301 

-, — fVaier^ to render fit to 
wash lineo, 193^' 

' ,- to make artificial 383 

Seeds^ ForeigiXy method of 
facilitating the growth of 252 

. , to preserve froraver- 

min when sown, 
- — , to preserve, in a state 

for vegetation, 
— ^,^ of flowers, to pre- 
serve, 
— -^, easy method-iof dis* 



, to preveat' and cure 

' the rot in ihi^ 

, cure of the rot in ib» 

\ — — , the wool of, improv- 
! e#by smearing, - 12^ 

^ , to mark, without in- 
jury to the wool, tA» 403 
5/ic//Go7rf, tomake 74 
SkerbTBiy to make^ 203 
Ships^^Xa &to]:t the progress 
of fire on board of «46 

'-^ , metbed of trying the 

goodness of "thnber used^ 
in the arsenal at Vieoaa^. 
' for building) 35Qi 

Skoes^-G^L^j method of cldaii- 
! ing in winter,-. 136 

^ danger of puttxag spi- ' 

rits into 147 

: ,,to prevent takioif'wa-' 

ter, 138 

Shrubs^ superfltbiiB 'suckers 

should bo taken oS^- 26 1 

Sick Persons^ famig&tion foi« 

the roomsof 221 

— , ~ca utioos ift vi«ilifig 278 
Sights 'rules for the preserv- 
ation of 283 
Silkj method of cleaoingu 141- 
— , to take stains of. 
grease out of 344 

— Stockings, to clean 146 

— Worms, the outside 
woof of, an- exoeilcnt 
styptic, 30e 

51j5i7rcr, composition for gild- 
ing T4 

25I|^ Ooodsy to clean 13R 

Silvering, art of 76 

258 Simple WaUrSy niethod of - 
distilling,, 153> 



424 



WDEX* 



PUge 
Stee, to make from pota- 
toes 125 
Sky'Rockefs, to make 249 
Slugs, to prevent getUog in- 
to fruit trees 397 
Sleepy to promote 278 
JSmail'Pox, 396 
Smectring, improves the 

wool of sheep .122 

SiAellsj disagreeable ' in 
botise-drains, method of 
preventing lOB 

— — -, in newly painted 

rooms, to remove, 178 

Smelling-Boillej to make. 
anejLcelleht 325 

, stopples of, 

tclooseia 162 

Smul in wheat, preventives 
of 53 



5nfl5i/*, to destroy 378/397 '5/i>?^«^ of Uees^ gnats, or 



Soap^ a liquid whfch may 
be used instead of solUf 
tions of 

— , Essence of^ for shav- 
ing 

, to make Jamaica ve- 
getable 

— — , substitute for 

— — , to make genuine 
Windsor 

— , to make Lady Der*- 
by's 

Sore Lips^ remedy for 

Throaty to cure a- 

, a drink for a 



--, gargle for 



Sophistication of oils to de- 
tect 

Spectacles^ rules for choice 
of 

Spider, to destroy the red 

Spirits, to Troprove the taste 
and smell of common 

— , danger of putting in 

shoes or boots 

', to try their purity 



Spirituous Liquors^ to cure 
bud flavour of 



84 

222 

209 
207 

331 

209 
403 
301 
302 
ib. 

79 

282 
378 

152 

47 
398 

15'2^ 



Pagr 

Spots or Stains J receipt for 

removing 92, 340, 345 

5jpratVw, remedy for 299* 

Spruce-Beer, to make IdO" 

5pwr^e,. useful properties of- 

the red 228- 

Stage^Coaehes^ hints for 

ventilating 279 

Stains for the hair, 333, 335 
Starchy to extract, from 

horse-chesnuts 86 

Steel, method of cleaning V7& 

, to prevent rusting 76 

, method of cleaning 

17T 
73 
53 

ib. 
17^1 

30O 

lOO 
178- 
90- 

271 



rusty 
-, art of gilding 



Steeps for wheat, 

for fertilizmg wheat, 



Slc, 
Stilton Cheese, to make 



wasps, remedies for 
Stone Floors, artificial, t« 

construct 
Stoves, method of cleaning 
Straw, to bleach 
Strawberries, directions for 

managing, in summer 
Strawberry 'Plants, to pre* 

serve from the heat of the 

sun 



ib. 



Stone Stairs,, mixture fer 
cleaning 17^ 

Striped GrflW*,. recommend- 
ed for hay, 51 

Stiichum or Perpetual Ink, 
to make 31 a^ 

Styptics to stop bleeding, 30^ 

Sugar of Lead^ io detect in 
wine 205 

StJilpkur, use of, for destroy- 
ing insects, &c. 6r 

Sunimer, a pleasant drink 
for the 202^- 

Sun-Flower, virtues of the 

219,258 

Swedish method of raising 
turkies, 18^ 

Swords, to make blue 71 



INDEX. 



4^ 



h 

(fcr 

m 



for 



Page. 









Tabh'Betr^ substitute for 
. ,to make excel- 

lent 
Ttt6^/«5,td clean maho^ny 
Tainted Fishf to cure 
Tar-fVaier^ usefttl in cx> 

pandiug the lungs 
Twrtar^ to remove from the 

t^eth 
T&i^or, Dr. his method of 

destroying. ratS' 
———, his- method of 

asceFtaifiing. the*' pFoper- 

ties of marie, &c. 
Tewns^ and their- mimage- 

ment, 45, 

Tea, British^ a s\tfostitute 

for foreign SIO 

— , iftfy, virtues of, for.? 

cattle 11^119, 

— , Beef^ to make 158 

<f Brilisfi Herb^do make 210 

, Kettles J* to prevent the- 

formation of cru&t in-^ 
, (7nw, polished, prefer* 

able to vfrrui«kcd^ 
Tceth^ charchoali^good for 

deaing 

^ rules fof prcserviiig. 

to reii»0¥« tartar- 



160 

97 
174 
155 

279 

292 

233 



50 
46 



Page, 
Tilings econamical method - 

of 105 

Timber^ cure for the dry rot 



m 



S^-. 



method of tryin 
tbet^oodoess'of, fbr»ship- 
buildiog, vtod in the arse- 
nal at Vienna 
-, green to seasonTind 



350. 



render fit for use 
Tinders economy 'm 
Toast and'Water^ to mukey 

and advantages of 



ibi 

ih.' 
218 

193 



169 
221 
156 

2ai 



ffom the 

-y to facilitate icfaiklreo 



in cutting 

and Gunxsy tincture 



202 



2d0 



292 



Tohaecai\ the great ittility of 27S- 
Tooth'A che^ to prevent 29 1 
^^—•'^^Fmoders^ to make' 292 
Toys, gjlti . to clean 139: 

Trttcihg-Pc^er^' method of 

using 22&. 

Transparent Colours 'for • 
Painting^ to judge of 324 
— : — _ Screeni^ to 

24U 

227: 

156 

347 

226^ 



make' 

— Papery for 

Drawiftgy to make 
Treacky to preserve meat 

with' 
T^rcc*-, composition for heaU 

ing wounds in 

economical use of 



roots of 

-, the leaves of, to be 



collected ^t- pharmacett- 
tiscal purposes 
-, the roots of fir aod- 



for the 
Tempenxtiart^^ropeTy -for a 

dairy^ 
Thatching^ to effect a sav^ 

iog in the'a^ti6ie.of ' 
y/tiM/j , to.preven*, . at-sea^ 

\» c ases of e mergency . 
Thunder Potn^r, to^nake ' 
TiUs,> to increase the dura-- 

bility o^ for! coverings 

baildti^? 103^ 4m 



pine, yield pitch and tar 
-, to avoid obstruction 



264 



226 



149 

39 

211 

2411 



in the growth of forest 
-, to Cause a new bai4£ 



346 

•347" 



tograwonold- 

— , usefnl 'piopertieft-of- , 

their roots 226 

, sjftetteffc^ superfiuouB)' 

to be removed 261 

— , to|Bat€r'>ihe^ tjaokci^ 
iiK 262 

— , to destK^r'catet-"^' 



jxQlars on 



62y^3^ 



It-ls 4M' 



^& IXDKX. 


Trttt, U> deitroy mens on 261 


PiV- 
romi)A,coloarlet»,ofma>- 1 


— , to locrease the 


lie and sandrac 35S 


growth of 260, 346 


, for violias and ma- 


, to present sings gel- 




ting into fruit 378,397 


, obseriraliona on 


, to propagate 269 

, white waibing k- 


Spirit F-amMa 357 


1— , on oil vanibhel 368 




, blaclijapwi 360- 


of 346 




Tiiii-Bulltr, roethcHl of cur- 




inc t«7 
TurtKu-Carvett, method of 


, elastic gum »*■ 361 

, amher 362- 


cle/dns 175 




Rhubarb, method of 


printi t*. 368- 


culliralins and caring, 


, Cor platter costi or 


from the .eed 273,273 


medal. 362 


Turkiet, method of raisii^ 


, for brat! 368- 


Swediih 182 


, Chmeie 369 


- Mteo, accord- 


, to prerent the solar 


lorfolk ptan 404 


rajs passing through wia- 


ersoilfortbe 




,( 374 




iitroy the Of, 


, shell-lac i*. 


83 


, a black, for sitaw 


reserve from 


hats 139 


- 69,60 


, excellent for um- 


, ID. protect them 


brellas 405 


from (lie slug 63 


, for earthenware 363 






U 


, for furniture 176, 363 


•—, for oil paintings 364- 




, for preserviD^ in- 


P«Sre/He«eBeDt Tarnish 


sects 36fi. 


for 405 


, forpale* 36& 


Uief^ ^rls, 70 


i — , for toilet boxu, 




fani, &e. 363^ 


V 






, pal 359, 361, 364 




, to make gold 367, 


ranAertmm'j Pa%nl,Ut dry 


359, 36T 


and cease to em«ll within 


.to make white 364 


sis hours 402 


, to prepare linseed 


Kaprntrt, noxioiu, in WbIU, 


oil ' "^ "^ 365 


t* remote 384 


regelablei, to restore^ when 




frost bitten 199- 


way 307 


Velimn, to gild tetters on 393 
r«fcef, method of taUng 


Famuk, obiervationa on 


—, wilh spirit of wine 3H 


nai out of 342 





umviti^ 



4^1 



345 



289 
108 

3i4 



ings 



Page 
P^lveti to raise the sorfkce 

or pile of 
f'enomotu Animais^ to pre- 
vent death from the bite 
of 
Veniilatort for room* 
Verdigris^ blue colour pre- 
pared from. 

, substitute for. 

237,238 
Kerjuice^ to make i^^WasU 



WariSjCfsre for 

fVashy for preserving draw- 



29» 



WdspSy cure for persons 
having accidentally swal- 
. lowed 

, method of destroy- 



ing 



230- 



300. 
380^ 



V€rminy method of destroy* ^ 
ing 370, tt uq. 

-, to destroy io chil- 

379 



dren^s heads 

--, to preserve seeds 



51 



from, when sown 
' f^etseUfor culinary purpos- 
es^ necessapy bints to 
those who use copper 

yinegar^ te make balsamic 
and anti-putrid 188, 281 

, efficacious in the- 



— — I or BttSf to cure the 

sting of 300. 

Laftds, advanta- 



224 



cure of bura» or scalds - 
— , to strengthen 

■ ' > Goonherry^ to> 



make 
matie 



y 



to prepare aro- 
ta-ioake prim-. 



rose 



making 



•, cheap method of 



to make with the 
refuse of bee-hives 

Kinesy important uses of the 
leaves-of 

, to prune advaata* 



geously 



294 

188 

ib, 
332 
188 
186 
187 
219 
264 



W 



VTaferiy method of making 
Wall'Fruti, method of pre- 
serving 
Walnui»KeUhup<i to make 
lVa.ls^ to cure damp 
Warming Bedt^ hiutfl oo 



geously planted with al- 
der 
JVater (Toast and JVater) 
to make and its advanta- 
ges 

yeasy method ofob* 



taining 

-, Arlifitialy for writ- 



30V 



3^ 



193 



42 



ing letters of secrecy 388, 389 - 

J Hungaryy to make 329" 

— — , to keep free from 
weeds, artificial pieces 



of 



-, of risers and pits, to 



42 



purify the muddy 192, 193- 

Proc/C/ozA, tomake 141 

', Pultidy to make 

sweet 188, 191 

to preserve from 



putrefactiott, in long voy- 
ages 

-, to prevent from frec- 



157 
19^ 



zing in winter 
-^ — , to obtain pure and 
soft, for 'medicinal pur- 
poses, without distillation 192 

^ to filter 194,195. 

, to make more effica- 
cious in extingui&hing 



fires 



245 



— , to purify, for domes- 
tic purposes 

^ to prevent boots and 



87 

199 

201 

1031 

1581 cloths, kc> 



shoes taking 

Tavy useful in ex- 



panding the luo^s 

-, to take spots out of 



190 
138 
270- 
344c 



42a 



INDEX. 



Page, 
Waicr^ Sea^ (artificial) to 
make 383 

5- (o make, fit for 

193 
t6. 



washing liaeti at sea, 

, JVarnij properties of 

Waters^ Simple^ method of 

distiilintr. 153 

lyaler-Gladiok, to make 

hread from ]6& 

IFoi', to bleach bee3^ . 94 

, to dissolve, in water, 86 

, to take, out of velvet, 342 

Wcfl/Ztcrytojudge of the 404 
■ Buardingj compo* 

sitioo for preserving^ 107, 316 
Weedsy uscfuJneas of mowing 60 
H eexiJ^ to preserve sea- 
bread from the 
U Mils, to disperse the noxi- 
ous vapours found in 
Wei Clvlhes^ to pr&vent dan- 
ger from 
fVkeal^ approved method of 
sowing 
— , steep for 



164 

384 

145 

55 
53 



— — ^ lo prevent the smut ■ 
in ib. 

—— FVotir, to judge of the 
quality of 162 

-, to aseertftindf it be 

adulterated. 163, 164 

, to sow, to advan- 

641 



tage, withou^t mauure, 

utility of sowing 



65 



buck 
, to protect from 

crows 16. 

Whil^ Painl, to make 

good 402 

Wicki^ economical for jampsf 

225 
Windsor Soapf to nmfee ge- 
nuine 
WmCt a: teat for discovering: 

metals in, Ibat are iiKJiiri** 

ous to.theht.aitb, 
— , to discover adnhera^ 

ed 



331 



'K^ 



Pagt* 
Wine^ 16 makeaBexceUeot 
family 204 

, tomake^birch<»tree 203 

, British Champagne, 

to make 
Wine^ to make currant 
— -, to make elder 
, to make grape 

, to make koumiss 

, to make orange 
^ excellent American 



33& 

sm 

204 

ib. 

385 

23a 

ib. 



Wood^ cement for preserv- 
ing, in damp situations 
, to make a liquid for 



staining 
« to 



preserve- from 



349 
333 



catching fire^ and frum 
decay lOG, 244 

— , to 6taio» a bcautiftil 

234 



red 



to 



stain. 



fiae 



black 

', to stain aigreen 



— - Lice^ to destroy 

Wooff the outside of -silk- 
worms, a&«xeaUeat styp- 
tic. 

Wool, infested witti insaetsy 
to purify 

Wool of Skupj ioaproved 
by smearing, 

Woollm-Cloifuy method of 
discharging grease-spots 
from 

> to prevMit 



the raTage»o£ mothsin 

I method oD 



cleaniog. 

— ' Stt^s, to bleach 

to render water- 



proof 

Worms^ to, destroy in -gar- 
dens 

in the hunnm^iedy, 



t6. 

23a 

374 



30i^ 
141: 
12a 

34» 

14a 

14t 
90 

141: 

382 

3091 



ifi. 



to cure 

If^unds^ to prevent fromn* 
moxtifyin^ 400 



JNDEX. 



Page, 
JVovnds in Trees^ composi- 
tion for healing 263 
Wren^f insects destroyed by 

the 382 

fVriting, method of recov- 
ering decayed 392 

, secret methods of 

388, 389 
— — , to make durable 391 
-, to revive o]d 393 



Y 



42» 



Yeast, to make 98 

) to make artificial 9ft 

, to make in the Turk-^ 

ish manner, tb, 

, method of preservine; t^. 

, substitutes for 98, 99, 

161, 166 
6 



-, 10 revive oja oyo{v*>; n ti n • .\o 

^l .vith different p'^/ow, methoa of dyeing 23 

s on the same na. — ' ^^ P'^P^*^ ^^^ -"^a- ^ 



colours on the same pa 

per, 390 

, to write in the 

dark, ib, 

-, ornamental ib, 

, to take out 392 



pies 3t7 

-~— , to stain paper, or 
parchment 324, 



THE END. 



HOWE & SPALDING, 

ff^WEfor sale a variety of BOOKS on Agriculture, . 
Dmncstic Economy^ Manufnetures^ and on the Me-* 
chunic. Useful and Ornamental Ari$^ among which* 
ere the following : 

ACADEMY of Science aiu! Art, or New Precep- 
tor, coFitainittg.a com ptete system of useful aod 
accomplished EJucatioii, a« iveira>s general knowledge 
in all the branches of science, with numerous plates,, 
maps and illostrations^ 2 vols. 8vo. ^1'^ 50. 

Art of Drawing in perspective, 12mo. stitched, 50' 
*'ents. 

Art of Painting ia W-ater Colours, &c.. exemplified inV 
Landscapes, Flowers, &c..vuitb instruction? for paint-' 
ing on G^^HS and in Crayons, wJth.direclioDS for pre-' 
paring the Colours, 5vo. stitched, 50 cent^. 

Bancroft's Experimental researches into the Philoso*- 
phy of peui>aueiLt Colours, and the be«l means of pro- 
diicing them by Dyeing, Calico-priutiag, &c. 2 vols. 
Svo. g6. 

Bard's Young Shepherd's Guide, with notes and pre* 
cepts for the management of Sheep and treatment of 
their diseases, l^mo. 75> cents. 

Bern is' Dyer's Companion, 12mo<. ^1 50. 

Bingley's Oseful Knowledge ; or a fainiliar and ex- 
planatory account of the various productions of Nature, 
Mineral, Vegetable and Animal wJiicb are chiefly em- 
ployed for the use of mal^ illustrated with numerous 
figures, 3 vols. .l2mo. {jjo, 

Bordley's Epitome of Forsyth, on the Culture and 
management of Fruit trees ; also Noies on. Americiaa 
Cardejiing and .Fwils^ 8vq,- j^)^. 



&. 



T-r 



Cabitiet ttf the Arts, being ft neW and utiTif^erssfl 
brawing Book, ftN* ming & complete system of Drawing 
and Paintkig in all its branches, 4EItchmg Engraving., 
Perspective and Surveying; with all therr various and 
appendaat partis^ containing the whole theory and prac- 
tice of the V'me kris in general, displaying in the mo]§t 
familiar manner, the whote rudiments of Imitation, 
Design, Disposition, Ii^ention atid Dec^tion, illus^ 
Ira ted 'with upwards of 60 efegant Engravings, &c. &c. 
in onie large volume, 4to. ^33. 

Carter's Frugal Housewife, or complete Woman 
Cook, I2mo. stitched, 37 cents. 

Clater's Every Man his own Carttle Doctor, l^mo. j^l. 

Complete Grazier, or Parmer's Cattle breeders and 
Dealers Assistant, with an 'introductory view of the 
different breeds of Neat 'Cattle, Sheep, Horses and 
•Swine; also an Appendix on the Shepherd's Dog» 
Horses, Asses, Mules, Poultry, Rabbits, Bees, and on 
the improvement of Wool, illustrated by Numerous 
engravings, 8^vo. jj4 TS. 

Cooper's Practical Treatise on Dyeing and Calico 
printing, exhibiting" the jjrocesses in the -French, Ger-. 
man, Er»glish and American practice of fixing colours in 
Woolen, Cotton, Silk and Linen, Bvo. $S 60. 

Coppinger's American Brewer and Tanner, exhibit- 
ing the most improved process of the former Art witb 
the French mode of Tanning, '8vo. |{1 75. 

Coxes wew of the -cultivation of Fruit Trees and ihc 
management of Orchards and Cider, -with accurate 
descriptions of the most estimable varieties of fiatfv^ 
aad foreign Apples, Pears, Peaches, Plums and Cher- 
ries, illustrated by cuts of 200 kinds of Fruit of the 
natural size, &vo. ^3 2&. 

Daubenton's Advice on the Care and Management of 
Sheep, 8vo. $1 25. 

Davy's Elements of Agricultural Chcmfstry, jj2 75. 

Deane's Analyti<:al Guide to the Art of Penmanship, 
4to. $4. 

^Deane's New-Englaod Farmer, contaming a cont^ 
peodious account of the w«^s and methods in whi<^h the 



BOOKS* 

Ah of Husbandry may be practised to the greatest ad< 
Vantage. 

Domestic Cookery, a new system formed upon prin- 
ciples of Econofuy, and adapted to the use of private 
families, V2mo^$12b. 

Duncan's practical and descriptive Assays on the Art 
of Weaving,'illustrated by 14 large Engravings, 2 vols. 
Svo. board, in one, jjl5 75. 

Ellis's Country Dyer's Assistant, ISmo. 75 cents. 

Evans' Young Millwright and Miller's Guide, em» 
'bellij^hed wit^ 25 plates, 8vo. $4 50. 

Forsyth's Treatise on the culture atid maiiagcment of 
Fruit Trees, &c. illustrated with plates, 8vo. ^2. 

Frost's Art of Swimming, a series of practical in- 
structions, by which the Art may be readily attaJQed, 
accompanied \tilh 12 engravings, 8vo. ^1. 

Glass's Art of Cookery, made plain and easy, 8vo, 
$2. ^ ' 

Haigh's Dyers Assistant, in Ibe Art of Dyeing Wool 
-«nd Woolen Goods, from the most eminent authors, 
French and English, 12mo. $1. 

Hale's Farmer's Assistant, or the complete Cattle 
Doctor, containing rules for feeding, breeding and pre- 
serving cattle, 12mo. 50 cents. 

Hall's Distiller, adapted to the use of Farmers as 
vrell as Distillers, 8vo. ^2. 

Handmaid to the Arts, describing the substances em- 
ployed in painting, the mode of delineating, design- 
ing, gilding, japanning, staining, &:c.. preparations for 
Inks, Cements and sealing wax, the art of Engraving ; 
the nature, composition and preparation of Glass, of 
Porcelain, &c. &g. 2 vols. 8vo. j^3 75. 

Huber's New Observations on the Natural Hhtory 
and management of Bees, ]2mo. ||2 25. 

Imison's Elements of Science and Art, being a fa- 
miliar introduction to Natijral Rhilosophy and Chemis- 
try, together with their application to a variety of ele- 
gant and useful arts, enlarged and adapted to the im- 
proved state of science, by T. Webster, and illustrated 
4vith plates, 2 vols. 8vo. $8 50. 

Joyce's Scientific Dialogues, in nhich the first prin- 



BOOKS .-^ 

ofples of natural and experimental philosophy are fuHy 
and familiarly explained, 3 vols. 18qf30. ^3* 

Johnstone's Account of the mode of Draining Land, 
according to the system of Joseph Elktngton, drawn 
up for the consideration of the Board of Agriculture, il- 
lustrated with 19 engravings, 8vo. $4 25. » 

Keyes' Practical Bee Master, in which is shewn how 
to manage Bees, without destroying them, with more 
ease, safety and profit, than by. any former method, 
8vo. $1 25. 

Keyes' Ancient Bee Master's fareweH, or full and 
plain directions for the management of Bees, to the 
greatest advantage, derived from the experience of 30 
years, 8vo. $2.-- 

Kirwan on the Manures, most advantageously appli- 
calble to the various sorts of soil, and the causes of 
their beneficiaL effects, 12mo. 50 cents. 

Knight on the culture of the Apple and Pear, and on 
the manufacture of Cider and Ferry, 12roo. ^1 26. 

3I'CulIoch's remarks- on the Art of making Wine, 
with suggestions for the applications of its principles to- 
the improvementof domestic Wines, 12frio. jj2 15. 

M'Harry's PracticaM>fstiUer, containing directions 
bow to conduct and improve the practical part of dis- 
tilling in all its branches, and sundry extracts of ap- 
proved receipts for making Gider, Domestic Wines and 
Beer, 12mo. ^2, 

M'Kenzie's Treati«eon the'diseases^and management 
of Sheep, 8vo. $1 25. 

Martin's Circle of the Mechanioal Arts, containing 
practical treatises on the various- Arts, Trades and 
Manufactures, illustrated by numerous engravings, 4to^ 

Mills' Treatise on Cattle, shewiHg the most approv- 
ed methods of breeding, rearing and fitting for use 
Horses, Asses, Mules, Horned Cattle, Sheep, Goats, 
SwlYie, &c,' 8vo. Jf2 60, I2mo. jjfl. 

Mills* Treatise on Farriery, 12a)o; $U 

Nicholson's Farmer's Assistant, embracing every ar- ' 
tide relative to Agriculture, arranged in alphabetical- 
order, 8vo. $3, 



BOOltJf. 

Obricn^a Manufacturer's Companion and Calico-^ 
prmter's Assistant, ]2mo. $\ 75. 

Pjbus*^ Ladies Receipt>Book, jconfaining a colJec- 
tioB of valuable miscellaneous receipts and choice se- 
crets in. useful, elegant and ornamental AfIs, ISrno. . 
.stitched, 50 cents. 

Raffald's Experienced Housekeeper, for the use o€ 
Ladles, Housekeepers and Cooks, wriUen purely from 
practice, consisting of nfarly one hundred original re- 
ceipts, 12mo. %!• 

Rumford, on the Construction of Kitchen Fire Places 
and Kitchen Utensils, with remarks and observations 
relating to the various processes of Cookery, Svo. ^1. 

Salisbury's Hints addressed to proprietors of Orch- 
ards and Growers of Friut, comprising observations oa 
the present state of Apple Trees, also, the natural 
history of the American blight and other insects des- 
tructive of Fruit Trees, 12mo. $2 37. 

Sinclair's Code of Agri^ifulture, inclfiding observa-. 
tions on Gardens, Orchards, Woods and plantations^ 
8vo. $2 75. 

Spurrier's Practical Farmer, a new and compendious 
system of Husbandry, adapted to the different clim- 
ates and soils of America, 8vo. $\ 75. 

Sutcliffe's Treatise on Canals and Reservoirs, and 
the best mode of designing and executing them, with 
observations on the principal Canals of Great-Britain, 
and a comparative view of them ^ likewise on the best 
mode of preparing all kinds of Cotton Twist ; a/so, in- 
structions for designing and building a Corn Mill, &c. 
with important directions on public drains, 8vo. £3 75 

Taplin's Modern S^tem of Farriery, 8vo. 82 75. 

TaphVs Compendium of practical and Experimental 
Farriery, 12mo. gl. 

Taylor's Familiat Treatise, or Perspective- in all its 
Branches, illustrated by 5! engraving*, 8vo* 8^ 75. 

Taylor's Familiar Treatise on Drawing for Youth, 
being an Elementary introduction to the Fine Arts, de- 
signed for the instruction of young persons, illustrated 
with 33 superior engravings, 8vo, 84. 

Taylor's Instructor, or a Comprehensive Tr^tise of 



BOOKS^ 

the Elements- of cutting Garnaenis of every kind. Illus- 
trated with eight appropriate engravings, 8vo. IB2.60. ' 

Tessier's Complete Treatise on Sheep, with plates, 
8vo. SI 50. 

Tingry's Painter's and Varnisher^s^Guide. or a Trea- 
tise both in Theory and Practice, on the Art of mak- 
ing and applying Varnishes, on the ^iffere^t kinds of 
painting, and on the method of preparing, colours, il- 
lustrated with engravings, 8vo. S4 75. 

Washington's Letters ta Anthony Young and Sir 
John Sinclair, containing .an account of his ^usbandry^ 
with his opinions on. various questions in Agriculture^ 
8vo. 75 cents. 

Williams' Elements of Drawinoj, exemplified in a va- 
riety 6f figures and sketches of parts^ of the Human 
Form, consisting of 26 copperplate engravings, willi 
instructions for yo4ing beginner*^. 4to, stitched, S2., 



HAS JUST PUBLISHED AND OFFERS FOR SALE, 





History of Connecticut^ 

IN TWO '^•LUMES OCTAVO. 

A^u?-lfa«cny 1819*. 



•^ 



' >'<>'- r 



y^ 



y 



i :■ / / ^^-C 



x-^ 



^ 



t »■ 






^■t 



i> 









-'y 



t 



