


"oV* 




•e* < 



iP<*. 







W 



**0« 




a. *?7f,** ,o 














* 4 .#« # * 



* < 









xsua .i// - i 



r*» ^ 



^>- T 




•/\ 






'.^ffc' 0*°"^ --SUP* ^% 

V4 V 








* t3 *"»v •» 











V 











- : - o 1 






•T.» .« 









THE ^ 

HUSBANDMAN 

AND 

HOUSEWIFE: 

A COLLECTION OF 

VALUABLE RECIPES AND DIRECTIONS, 

RELATING TO 

AGRICULTURE AND DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 



and 



BY THOMAS G. FESSENDEN. 



Boyle has observed, that the excellency of manufactures, 
and the facility of labour would be much promoted if the vari- 
ous expedients and contrivances, which lie concealed in pri- 
vate hands, were by reciprocal communications made generally 
known ; for there are few operations that are not performed 
by one or other with some peculiar advantages, which though 
singly of little importance, would, by conjunction and concur- 
rence, open new inlets to knowledge, and give new powers to 
diligence Johnson. """s^ 



BELLOWS FALLS : 
PRINTED BY BILL BLAKE & CO. 

1820. 



DISTRICT OF VERMONT, TO WIT: 

# vv v»-# BE it remembered, that on the twenty third day of 

I Seal \ -^ a ^' * n * ne *° r ty f° urt h y ear °f ^e Independence 
' t of the United btates of America, Thomas G. Fes- 
^wv*.-# senden, esquire, of said District, hath deposited in 
this Office the title of a book, the right whereof he claims as 
author, in the words following, to wit : 

"The Husbandman and Housewife : a collection of valuable 
recipes and directions, relating to agriculture and domestic 
economy. By Thomas G. Fessenden. v Boyle has observed, 
that the excellency of manufactures, and the facility of labour 
would tie much promoted, if the various expedients and con- 
trivances which lie concealed in private hands, were by recip- 
rocal communications made generally known ; for, there are 
few operations, that are not performed by one or other with 
some peculiar advantages, which though singly of little impor- 
tance, would, by conjunction and concurrence, open new in- 
lets to knowledge, and give new powers to diligence 1 . ...John- 
son." 

In conformity to the act of the Congress of the United 
States, entitled "an act for the encouragement of learning, 
by securing the copies of maps, charts, and books to the 
authors and proprietors of such copies, during the times 
therein mentioned. 1 ,' 

JESSE GOVE, 

Clerk of the District of Vermont. 



■I 



District Clerk's Office, 
Vermont District, to wit: 
May 23, A. D. 1820. 

I hereby certify that the preceding is a true Copy of the 
record of the preceding title page. 

J. GOVE, Clerk. 



PREFACE. 

THE following little work has no other claims to 
public patronage than what may originate in its utility. 
The author has compiled from a great number of 
volumes, written by men of acknowledged merit and 
standard authority, those directions and prescriptions, 
which it appeared to him might most benefit the 
largest proportion of mankind j and he has arranged 
them alphabetically, that they may be the more easily 
referred to in cases of emergency, or in the hurry of 
business Many of the articles, however, he believes 
have never before appeared in print, and are either 
derived from personal observation, or been furnished 
by the author's friends, with a view to publication. 
Several of the contributors alluded to are medical men, 
of regular standing, and established reputation. These 
gentlemen could have no other motive in affording 
their valuable assistance than what one of them has 
expressed in a communication to the compiler, viz. "a 
wish to contribute to the ameliorating of the condition 
of man." The same gentleman observes, in forming 
these recipes I have attended solely to such as would 
be of use to the mass of the people. Therefore I 
have avoided any composition, into which any inoredi- 
ents entered, which were not familiar and accessible tt 



iv PREFACE. 

the great body of the community ; and also any which 
might be dangerous in the hands of persons, unac- 
quainted with the science of medicine. 

It is not our wish by the following compilation to 
furnish weapons for quacks, or infringe upon the pro- 
vince of the regular bred physician. But our object 
is to suggest simple remedies, for common disorders, 
where the symptoms admit of no doubt respecting the 
nature of the complaint, and where the advice of a 
medical practitioner cannot readily or immediately be 
procured. On the contrary we would not advise any 
person to rely upon our recipes, where the disorder 
appears to be acute, or its symptoms equivocal, but im- 
mediately to have recourse to a regular and professed 
physician. The author does not pretend that his re- 
cipes are all infallible specifics in the disorders for 
which they are recommended. In some cases they 
may effect a cure, in others, serve merely as pallia- 
tives, and give temporary relief till more effectual 
means can be employed under the direction of a regu- 
lar practitioner. 

Those articles, which relate to Agriculture and Do- 
mistic Economy it is hoped will prove universally ac- 
ceptable. Some of our readers may be in possession 
of better means for effecting the ends proposed by 
our directions. To such our suggestions can do 
harm, and to others they may prove valuable. 



THE 



HUSBANDMAN AND HOUSEWIFE. 



rw»Avwvvv\»<ww 



ANTS. 



WHEN you find ants in quantities near borne pour 
hot water on them. The farmer when he manures 
his land, if he uses ashes, lime or salt sand, will net be 
troubled with those insects. Dr. Rees^ Cyclopaedia 
recommends boiling rain water with black soap, and 
sulphur, and saturating the ground with it, which iff 
infested with those insects. 



APPLES. 

TO preserve apples for winter's use let them 
remain on the trees till perfectly ripe. Then gather 
them by hand, about the middle of the day in clear dry 
weather. Spread them on a floor, and let them be till 
about the last of November, or till there is danger of 
their being injured by the frost. And in dry weather 
remove th< m into ca»ks or boxes, which have previ- 
ous.jr been made free from mould or moisture and 
place them in a cellar out of the reach of frost. They 
may be packed in dry saw dust or shavings of pine in 
order to ensure their preservation. 
B 



6 A P P— A S T 

APPLE TREE. 

TO propagate apple trees sow the pumice from 
eider mills, digging it into the earth in autumn. The 
plants will come up in the spring following. The next 
autumn they should be transplanted from the seed bed 
into the nursery, in rows from two to three feet apart, 
and one foot in the rows. The ground for a nursery 
should not be very rich but mellow and well pulveris- 
ed, and kept clear of weeds. The young trees, on 
being transplanted into orchards should be put into 
richer land than that to which they have been accus- 
tomed. 

The best mode of setting out Apple Trees and other Fruit 
Trees on a light soil. 

DIG a hole sufficiently large to prevent the root 
«f the tree when it is to be transplanted from being 
doubled or placed in an unnatural position, and to give 
room for the young shoots to extend themselves. 
Place about the roots of each tree, together with 
the mould, about half a bushel of small stones, the size 
of an ordinary apple, or somewhat less, which will give 
stability to the soil., and prevent the roots from being 
loosened by the wind. 



ASTHMA. 

TO cure asthma take of powdered columbo 2 
drachms, powdered ginger 2 drachms, camomile flow- 
ers 1 ounce. Pour a pint and an half of boiling water 
on the above ingredients, ' Take four table spoonfuls 
of this liquor cold in the morning and at mid-day. 

Another Remedy. 

MIX 4 ounces of honey, 2 ounces of flour of 



BAR 1 

brimstone ; 1 ounce of cream of tartar, 1-4 of an ounce 
of nitre. Take a tea spoonful often. 



Another. 

CUT Turkey figs in half; put a spoonful of sul- 
phur inside and eat them in that state. 



BARLEY. 

TO increase a crop of barley dissolve three 
pounds of copperas in a pail of boiling water. Add to 
this as much dung puddle water as will cover three or 
four bushels of barley. Stir it, and let it steej four 
and twenty hours ; when the seed is drained and 
spread, sift on fine lime, which fits it for sowing. 
Steeping the seed about 24 hours in the wash of a 
dunghill, without any mixture is said to produce a 
very good effect. 



BARN- YARD. 

A BARN- YARD should have a high, close and 
strong fence ; be lowest in the middle, and so high in. 
all sides that the greatest rain? cannot carry away any 
of the manure. If not properly shaped by nature it 
may be done by art, and if the soil be too loose to re- 
tain the manure a few loads of clay should be spread 
over its surface. The cattle should be kept constantly 
on the barn-yard during the foddering season, and for 
that purpose water should be introduced. There 
should be severaKyards where different sorts of cattle 
are kept. The sheep should have a yard by themselves 
at least, and the young stock another, that each kind 
msty have their proper sort of food. 



8 BEA 

After the yard is cleaned in the spring the farmer 
should embrace the first leisure he has to store it with 
materials for making manure, such as swamp mud, 
clay, brick dust, straw, fern or brakes, weeds, leaves 
of trees, turfs, marsh mud, eel grass, or even sand or 
loam. 



BEANS. 

THE following mode of planting beans has been 
recommended by an English writer. The rows- are 
marked out one foot asunder, and the seed planted in 
holes two inches apart : the lines are stretched across 
the lands, which areibrmed about 6 feet over, so that 
when one row is planted, the sticks to which the line 
is fastened, are moved by a regular measurement to the 
distance required, and the same method pursued till 
the field is completed. The usual price for this work 
is 9d. sterling per week, and the allowance two bushels 
per acre." 

Sir John Sinclair in his "Code of Agriculture" recom- 
mends cutting the tops of beans in order to accelerate 
their podding. This eminent writer informs us that 
"it was begun about the year I8t54, and has already 
been tried on more than 200 acres. The operation is 
performed by means of a sharp edged instrument or 
knife, 12 or 14 inches long exclusive of the handle ; 
but it may be done by a sickle or reaping hook. The 
expense has never exceeded 3s, per acre and it is 
done by contract. At a certain stage of its growth the 
head of the bean stalk does not seem essential to the 
purpose of vegetation, hut by its luxuriance to exhaust 
the strength of the plant. The proper time to cut 
them off, is, when the first blossoms begin to drop : if 
done sooner a fresh shoot will put forth. As soon as 
the tops are cut off the pods rapidly increase in size, 
ani tue period of ripening is accelerated, The tim£ 



B E D— B E E 9 

ly removal oT these parts, where the insects chiefly 
lodge, materially contributes to the health and vigour 
of the plant, and probably increases the weight of the 
crop The harvest is by this means advanced at least 
a fortnight. In the ordinary mode of managing a bean 
crop, their tops are green when reaped, consequently 
they absorb and retain mois-ture and require a conside- 
rable exposure in the field to prepare them for the 
stack ; whereas without their tops, the crop is sooner 
in a condition to be carried and less risk is incurred 
from the effects of frost and wet seasons. The tops" 
are left to rot on the ground." 



BED BUGS. 

TAKE a quantity of fourth proof spirits and as 
much pearl ash as will dissolve in it ; put it in every 
crack and hole in the bed stead and wash board ; also 
take a clean strip of linen or muslin j wet it with the 
liquor, and put it round the bed post close to the floor. 

Or, make a decoction of sassafras bark or root, not 
so strong as to stain the furniture, and scald the wain- 
scoting of your rooms, once a year. 

Or, dissolve camphor in strong spirits and apply the 
solution. 

Or, it has been said that the juice of cucumbers will 
destroy bed bugs. 

Or, simple clear strong lime water, it is affirmed will 
be as effectual as any of the above. 



BEEF. 



Mode of preserving. See Meat* 
b 2 



10 BEE 

beer — Spruce, 

TAKE a sufficient quantity of spruce boughs ; boil 
them in water about half an hour, or till the outward 
skin or rind peels off; strain the liquor, and stir in at 
the rate of two quarts of molasses to half a barrel. 
Work it with beer grounds or emptyings, or rather 
with yeast. 

Molasses Beer. 

TAKE four quarts of molasses, half a pint of yeast, 
and a spoonful of powdered race ginger : Put these 
ingredients into your vessel, and pour on them two 
gallons of scalding hot, soft clear water; — Shake it 
till it ferments ; and add thirteen gallons of the same 
water to fill up the cask. Let the liquor ferment for 
about twelve hours, then bottle it off with a raisin or 
two in each bottle. 

A good Household Beer. 

TAKE a heaped half peck of wheat bran, and three 
or four ounces of hops : Boil them a quarter of an hour 
in fifteen gallons of clear water: strain the liquor 
through a close sieve, and sweeten it with two quarts 
of molasses • cool it quick till it is no warmer than new- 
milk, and fill your half barrel Warm water may be 
used to fill up the cask if needful. Leave the bung but 
for 24. hours, that the drink may work and throw off 
the yeast, and it will be fit for use. About the fourth 
or fifth day, bottle off what remains in the vessel, es- 
pecially if the weather be hot, that it may not turn 
sour or stale. If the cask be new, or not before used 
for beer, apply yest or beer grounds to ferment it ; 
otherwise it will not be necessary. 

The practice which is common of fermenting our 
small dnoks with the sediments or dregs of the same 



BEE 11 

ou£ht to be abandoned ; for this is the foulest and 
most unwholesome excrement ot the liquor. 

To cure a butt of ropy Beer. 

MTX two handfulls of bean flour with one handful 
of wheat flour and stir it in. 

To feed and give a fine flavour to a barrel of Beer. 

PUT six sea biscuits into a bag of hops, and put 
.ill into the ca^k. 

Pea-pods in Bee~. 

THE pods of peas, after being dried it is said are 
excellent in beer, affording spirit to the beer. 



BEES. 

To preserve bees from worms or butterflies. 

ABOUT the first of May, raise the hive up, and 
strew *ome fine salt under the edge^ which will drive 
those insects away. 

A nuthod of taking the honey without destroying the 
Bees. From the American Farmer. 

IN the evening, when the bees have retired, take 
the hive gently from the stand ; spread a talde cloth on 
the ground ; set the hive on it, placing something un- 
der to raise it three or four inches ; then draw up the 
corners of the cloth, and fasten them tight around ihe 
middle of the hive, leaving it so loose below that the 
bees will have room sufficient between them and the 
hive. — Then raise the lid of th* 3 hive a little, and blow 
in the smoke from a cigar; a tew pulls of which as it 



12 BEL 

m 
is very disagreeable to them will drive them down. — 
Continue raising- the lid gradually, and blowing in the 
smoke all around, and in a few minutes it will be found 
that they have all gone out of the hive. You may then 
take off the lid, and cut away as much of the honey as 
you think proper. If the operation be performed the 
beginning of July, you may take nearly all, as there 
wiilbe time enough to provide a sufficiency for their 
support, during the winter. As soon as you have taken 
the honey, put on the lid, loosen the cloth, and spread 
it out, and in an hour or two the bees will have return- 
ed into the hive. It may then be replaced on the stand, 
and on the following day they will be found at work 
as usual. 

This method is very simple, and preferable to driv- 
ing the bees into another hive ; as you get all the ho- 
ney, and the new comb, which is still empty, and the 
young bees, not yet out of their cells are preserved. 

bees — Sting- of. 

THE application of laudanum gives immediate re- 
lief. 

Another Remedy. 

THE sting of a bee should be immediately extract- 
ed with a steady hand, for if any part of it breaks in 
remedies will in a great measure be ineffectual For 
a remedy, the application of a strong solution of salt is 
said to be speedy and infallible. 



BELLS. 

THE nearer bells are hung to the ground, othep 
things being equal the further they can be hfard. 
Dr. Franklin has stated that some years ago the iuhab- 



fe L A— B O T 13 

itants of Philadelphia had a new bell imported from 
England, and in order to judge of the sound the bell 
was raised on a triangle in the great street of that city, 
and struck, as it happened on a market day ; when the 
people coming to market were surprised on hearing 
the sound of a bell at a greater distance from the 
city than they had ever heard any bell before. This 
circumstance excited the attention of the curious ; and 
it was discovered that the sound of the bell when struck 
in the street, reached nearly double the distance it did 
when raised in the steeple. 

BLACK TONGUE, OR CANKER IN HORSES, HORNED CATTLE 
AND SHEEP. 

A VARIETY of remedies have been recommend- 
ed for this complaint. The following is said to have 
proved very efficacious. 

Wash and cleanse the mouth with sweet oil, and get 
as much into the horse as he will swallow, not exceed- 
ing one pint; then rub the throat with Spirits of Tur- 
pentine, Sweet Oii and Camphor, equal quantities, and 
well mixed. 

When this disease makes its appearance in the feet^ 
the hoof must be pared off where it presses on the ten- 
der parts, and the remainder of the hoof kept soft with 
linseed oil. Hot oils are then to be used to keep 
down the rising flesh, such as butter of antimony, vit 
riol. aqua fortis, and continued ti'l the fungus is sup- 
pressed ; observing to give them purges often to 
carry off the humours. 

botts — Preventive Means. 

SCRAPE off the. eggs of the horse bee, when laid 
on the horse, every eight or ten days with a sharp 



14 BOT 

knife. This practice must be continued during" the 
season of them. The eggsshould not be scraped off 
where the horse can feed, as in that case the young 
botts may be taken in. It is difficult to remove thosa 
eggs which are laid under the throat, with a knife, but 
they may be destroyed with a hot iron made for the 
purpose. 

Palliative Means. 

BLOOD letting and the copious use of mild oils 
will always palliate, and sometimes cure that disorder. 

Cure. 

A WRITER in the American Centinel gives the fol- 
lowing recipes. 

Take a table spoonful of unslacked lime, and let it 
be given with the water or feed of a horse at night and 
morning for three or four days, and it-*jvill comp»etelj 
«spel the botts. 

Another Cure. 

MAKE a drench composed of half a pint of new 
milk, a gill of molasses, an ounce of copperas, two ta- 
ble spoonfuls of common salt, and half a pint of warm 
water. Give this to the horse, once or twice a day, 
for a few days, and it will be sure to relieve him. 

But the remedy on which we should rely with the 
most confidence is the following which we are told by 
a gentleman of undoubted veracity is 

An infallible remedy for Botts. 

APPLY spirits of turpentine to the outside of the 
breast and stomach of a horse and the botts will iov 



BRE 16 

mediately let go their hold. Our informant assures us, 
that he has seen hordes which seemed to be in the last 
agonies wit-, this distressing complaint, relieved in- 
stantly and apparently restored to full health in five 
minutes. 



BREAD. 

THE carbonate of magnesia of the shops, when 
well mixed with new flour, in the proporti<Hi of from 
20 to 40 grains to a pound of flour materially improves 
it for the purpose of making bread. Loaves, made 
with the addition of the carbonate of magnesia, rise 
well in the oven ; and after being baked the bread is 
light and spongy, has a good taste, and keeps well. In 
cases where the new flour is of an indifferent quality, 
from 20 to 30 grains of the carbonate of magnesia to a 
pound of flour will considerably improve the bread. — 
When the flour is of the worst quality 40 grains to a 
pound of flour, is necessary to produce the same effect. 
As the improvement in the bread from the new flour 
depends upon the carbonate of magnesia, it is necessa- 
ry thai care should be taken to mix it it intimately with 
the flour previous to making the dough. A pound of 
carbonate of magnesia would be sufficient to mix with 
two hundred and fifty-six pounds of new flour at the 
rate of 30 grains to a pound. 



Method of making good Bread at about half the common, 
price. 

BOIL potatoes not quite so soft as common, the* 
turn the water out and let them hang over the fire 
and dry a short time ; then peal and mash them as fine 
as possible, then tako a small quantity of pearl ash, 
which should be added to new yeast, which is working 
briskly; add the potatoes to these ingredients, and 



16 BUR 

knead them together ; then add as much rye meal, or 
flour as you can possibly woik in — the whole should 
be pounded together with a pestle or something of the 
kind ; no water to be added at any time. After the 
dough is thus prepared let it stand an hour and an half 
or two hours before it is put into the oven. Be par- 
ticular in following these directions and you may make 
as good bread as can be made from the best rye and 
Indian meal ; indeed many give it the preference. It 
does not require quite so long a time to bake as com- 
mon brown bread. 

Another improvement in making Bread. 

TO every five pounds of flour add one pound of rice 
that has been previously boiled to a jelly over a slow 
ore ; then, when lukewarm, add your usual quantity 
of yeast, and make up vour bread. Should you judge 
your jelly to be too thick add luke-warm water; a 
method by which thiity pounds of flour and six of rice 
produce eighteen loaves each four pounds and an half 
weight. Five pound? of flour produce eight pounds 
of bread ; but with the addition of a pound of rice 
twelve and an half. 



BURNS AND SCALDS. 

PULVERISED chalk mixed with the whites of eggs 
to the consistence of cream, kept frequently applied 
to pr vent its congealing, is declared to be an excellent 
remedy for burns and scalds. 

Another Remedy. 

A PL\STER composed of Burgundy pitch, beef 
wav. and a little oil. Or. some say that common tar 
is the most sovereign remedy that can be applied* 



B U R— fe U T. 11 

Another Remedy* 

TAKE a piece of the thickest coarse brown paper, 
and dip it in the best salad oil. then set the paper on 
fire and carefully preserve all the oil that drops for use. 

burnt Clay 

IS an absorbent and acts much like lime as a manure* 
but not so powerfully. The method of burning it is 
as follows : — Procure eight loads of clay, cut into spits 
about as thick as a brick ; let it be pretty well dried in 
the sun and having made a heap of brush and other 
wood, coals or other combustibles, and laid one upon 
another, about as large as a small bonfire, in a pyra- 
midical form, bring the spits of clay and lay them 
round the same two or three spits thick, leaving 
only room to put in the fire, and light it The clay 
will soon take fire, and as it advances outwards 
lay on some more spits of claj', placing them in such 
a manner that the fire may be pent up within the 
h- j ap and not suffered to go out. After having burnt 
up the eight loads of clay the heat within will be so 
giejt as to fire any thing; and then you may lay on 
V\ - cuv green as it is dug from the pit, beiny always 
watchfuj to keep adding to it, but not so fa*t as to 
smother the ii . The heap you may enlarge and 
Spread out at e foot, keeping the fire constantly 
burning night 1 day; for the. larger the heap grows 
the easier bur the clay This is a cheap dressing for 
all sorts of b. ^excepting perhaps light sandy soils 
and being laid retty thick about the roots of fruit 
tree..*, enlarges multiplies and accelerates the growth 
*)i fruit. 

butter — how madt. 

'T'HK dairy house should b<> kept neat, should nevef 
front the south, southeast or southwest. It should bg 
C 



18 BU'T* 

situated near a good spring or current of water. The 
proper receptacles for miik are earthen pans not 
lined or glazed with lead, or wooden trays in warm 
Weather milk should remain in the pail till nearly cool 
before it is strained, but in frosty weather it should be 
strained immediately, and a small quantity of boiling 
water may be mixed with it, which will cause it to 
produce cream in great abundance, and the more so 
if the pans 01 vats have a large surface. 

In hot weather the cream should be skimmed from 
the milk at or before sunrise, before the dairy gets 
warm, nor should the milk, in hot weather stand in its 
receptacles longer than twenty four hours. In winter, 
milk may remain unskimmed thirty six or foi ty eight 
hours. The cream should be deposited in a deep 
pan, kept during summer in a cool place, where a 
free air is admitted. Unless churning is performed 
every other day the cream should be shifted daily into 
clean pans, but churning should be performed at least 
twice a week, in hot Weather ; and this should be done 
in the morning before sun rise, taking care to fix the 
churn where there is a good draught of air. If a pump 
churn is used it may be plunged a foot deep in cold 
water, and remain in that situation during the whole 
time of churning, which will much harden the butter. 
A strong rancid flavour will be given to butter if we 
churn so near the fire as to heat the wood in the win- 
ter season. 

After the butter is churned it should immediately b© 
washed in many different waters, till it is perfectly 
cleansed from the milk ; and it should be worked by 
two pieces of wood, for a warm hand will soften it, 
and make it appear greasy. 

Butter will require and endure more working in 
Winter than m summer. 



BUT 19 

Those who use a pump churn must keep a regular 
stroke : nor should they permit any person to assist 
them unless they keep nearly the same stroke ; for if 
they churn more slowly, the butter will in the winter 
go back, as it is called ; and if the stroke be more 
quick, it will cause a fermenta ion, by which means 
the butter will acquire a very disagreeable flavour. 

Cows should never be suffered to drink improper 
water; stagnated pools, water wherein frogs spawn, 
common sewers, and ponds that receive the drainings 
of stables are improper. 

The operation of churning may be very much 
shortened by mixing a little distilled vinegar with the 
cream in the churn The butter being afterwards well 
washed in t^'o or three changes of water. The whole 
of the acid will be caried off; or if any remain it will 
not be perceived by the taste. A table spoonful or 
two of the vinegar to a gallon of cream. 

To take the rancid taste from Butter. 

WHEN fresh butter has not been salted in proper 
time, or when salt butter has become rancid or mnstv, 
after melting and simmering it, dip in it a crust of 
bread well toasted on both sides ; and in a few minutes 
the butter w ill loose its disagreeable taste. 

Butter made from scalded Cream, 

AS soon as the milk is taken from the cow let it be 
placed on a steady wood fire, free as possible from 
smoke and scalded for thirty minutes — particular care 
must be taken not to allow it to boil. It must then be 
placed in a cool situation, and on the following day a 
thick rich cream will appear on the surface of the 
milk (which is excellent also for dessert purposes) ihis 
niav be taken off and made into butter in the common 



20 CAB 

way. This method is practiced in England, and it is 
iaid that a greater quantity of butter, and of a better 
quality can be made by this than by the common mode. 

Receipt for curing Butter. 

TAKE two parts of the best common salt, one part 
•f sugar and one part salt petre ; put them up together 
•o as to blend the whole completely : take one ounce 
cf this composition for every sixteen ounces of butter, 
work it well into the mass and close it up for use. 



CABBAGE. 

MANURING with ashes and lime has a tendency to 
preserve cabbages from insects ; and to guard against 
the grub or black worm a little circle of quick lime is 
said to be of service. Lice on cabbages may be de- 
stroyed by washing the plants with strong brine. The 
under leaves of cabbages, when they begin to decay 
may be taken off and made food for cattle, but decayed 
leaves should never be given to milch cows as they 
give the milk a bad flavour. 

Method of preserving Cabbages^ so as to have them good 
in the spring. 

[From the New England Farmer.] 

MAKE a trench in the driest sandy ground, nine 
inches wide, and of equal depth ; in which, place a 
row of Cabbages, with the roots upwards, contiguous 
to each other. Fill the cavities about them with some 
dry straw, and then shovel the earth up to the stalks 
on each side, almost as high as the roots, shaped like 
the roof of a house. The Cabbages will come out in 
Mav as sound as when tbey^were put in. an#$be outer 
green leaves will be tu pried quite white As they are 
»qt apt to keep well after they are taken out, two or 



CAN 21 

three at a time may be taken as they are wanted for 
use, and the breach immediately closed up with straw 
and earth as before. 

CANADA THISTLES. 

MOW Canada thistles in the old of the moon in Au- 
gust or any time in that month or in the begiflning of 
September, and rake them into heaps and burn them. 



CANCER. 

THE herb Pipsissawa called winter green, ever 
green, winter berry, &c. drank as a strong tea, and a 
strong decoction applied externally has cured invete- 
rate cancers in about a month's time. The application 
of leaches is said to have produced a similar result. 

Another. 

SPREAD a plaster of shoe maker's wax on a linen 
cloth, the size of the sore, with as much corrosive sub- 
limate as will adhere to it. — Let this plaster be kept 
on the sore for twelve hours — a large one is necessary 
over the small one to keep it in its place. After this 
wash the sore once a day with poke root. It caa 
, afterwards be treated as a common sore. 

• . Aonther, 

FIRST take borax, make it a powder, and cover the 
woutid, then take blue stone* and powder it, mix th^m 
together, making what is called drawing salve ; the 
sa ve will be blue. Mix hog's lard, bees wax and 
rosin ; spread the salve with lint and lay it on the 
wound ; let it remain for three days ; so continue it 
till the cancer is taken out. then dust in loaf sugar, 

* Slue vitriol, or »ulphate of copper, 
c 2 



Z2 C A N 

and every third dressing, put in some burnt alum over 
the wound— with a soft rag every time il is dressed. 
After the cancer is taken out make a healing salve of 
fresh butter, elder and a little bees wax, and you will 
find the place become quite well, and leave little or 
no scar behind. "This evidence of cure," says the 
Richmond Compiler, a newspaper, printed in Rich- 
mond, Vir. 4k has been kept a secret in a family in this 
state for a number of years, and has succeeded in a 
number of cases. 

Another. 

BURN half a bushel or three pecks of green old 
field red-oak bark to ashes, boil the ashes in three 
gallons of water, until reduced to one, strain that gal- 
lon off, and boil it away to a thick substance, similar 
to butter, apply a small quantity on a piece of silk or 
lint to the cancer, no bigger than the place or part 
affected. The medicine must be repeated every two 
hours, until the cancer roots are sufficiently killed, 
then apply healing salve with a little mercurial oint- 
ment mixed therein, and dress it twice a day until cur- 
ed, which will surely be in a&out twenty or thirty days 
at farthest. 



CANDLES. 

To purify Tallow for Candles* 

TAKE 5-8 of tallow, and 3-8 of mutton suet, melt 
them in a copper chaldron, with it mix 8 ounces of 
brandy, one of salt of tartar, one of sal ammoniac, two 
•f dry potash. Throw the mixture into the chaldron, 
ns:)kr the ingredients boil a quarter of an hour then 
■et the whole to cool. Next day the tallow will be 
fouud on the surface of the water in a pure cake. Take 
it out and expose it to the air for some days on canvass. 



C A N— C A T 23 

It will become white and almost as hard as wax. The 
dew is favourable to its bleaching. Make your 
wicks of fine even cotton ; give them a coat of 
melted wax, then cast your mould candles. They 
will have the appearance of wax in a degree, and one 
of them (six to a pound) will burn fourteen hours and 
not run. 



canker in trees. 

SIR Humphrey Davy, in his "Elements of Agri- 
cultural Chemistry," attributes canker iu trees to an 
"excess of alkaline and earthy matter in the descend- 
ing sap"; and says "Perhaps tne application of a weak 
acid to the canker might be of use ; or where the 
tree is great, it may be watered occasionally with a very 
diluted acid." 



caterpillars. Remedy for* 

THE following method of destroying caterpillars is 
recommended in the "American Gardener's Calender. 
"Dissolve a drachm of corrosive sublimate in a gill 
of gin or other spirits, and when thus dissolved in- 
corporate it with four quarts of soft water This solu- 
tion will be found to be the most effectual remedy ever 
applied to trees, both for the destruction of worms of 
every species, and of the eggs of insects, deposited in 
the bark. No danger to the tree is to be apprehended 
from its poisonous quality, which as it respects them 
is perfectly innocent. 

Another. 

THE following mode of destroying caterpillars has 
been recommended, and would probably prove effec- 
tual. 



24 CAT 

Take live coals in a chafing dish; throw thereon 
some pinches of brimstone in powder ; place the same 
under the branches that are loaded with caterpillars. 
The vapour of sulphur, which is mortal to these 
insects will not only destroy all that are in the tree, 
but prevent its being infested by them afterwards. A 
pound of sulphur will clear as many trees as grow on 
several acres A chafing dish, or something to contain 
coals may be fixed on a pole, and put near the nest. 

The hon. Timothy Pickering, in a letter to the cor- 
responding secretary of the Massachusetts Agricultural 
society has recommended an instrument, which he has 
found simple, and more convenient than any he had 
used for the destruction of caterpillars It is made 
by inserting some hog's bristles between a twisted 
wire, in such a manner as to form a cylindrical brush, 
which will present bristles on every side. This is 
attached to a pole of such length as the trees may re- 
quire, and the caterpillars are brought down by it, and 
then crushed. 

It is likewise affirmed that caterpillars, and other 
insects which infest our fruit trees, may be destroyed, 
bv casting over the tree a few handfuls of ashes, in 
the morning before the dew is dissipated from the 
foliage, or after a shower 3f rain. The former is the 
preferable time. 

A strong white wash of fresh stone lirne applied by 
the means of a mop or a sponge fixed on the end of a 
pole is by some recommended. A little spirits of tur- 
pentine would, probably, be still more efficacious. 
And it is affirmed that sprinkling the leaves and shoots 
of plants infested by those insects when wet, with fine 
sand will cause the caterpillars to drop off in apparent 
agony . 

It is said to be a good practice to examine the trees 



CHE 25 

in autumn, and remove the eggs which are deposited 
for a next year's stock from the twig-, on which they 
are fastened. Hepeat the examination in the spring. 
If those which have escaped notice fasten on a limb it 
is sometimes best to cut it off. A little oil of any kind 
it is said will kill all the caterpillars that it touches. 



cattle — hoven or swollen. 

A PINT of lie made of wood ashes, or about an 
ounce of pearl ash or potash turned down the throat, 
will immediately cure cattle which have become ho- 
ven or swollen, by eating too nv»ch green or succulent 
food A proportionably less quantity will answer for 
sheep. It gives instant relief by neutralizing the 
carbonic acid gas, which causes the swelling, and other 
symptoms of the complaint. 



cheese — Method of making. 

[From the Massachusetts Agricultural Repository.] 

THE milk is universally set for cheese as soon as it 
comes from the cow, 

The management of the curd depends on the kind 
of cheese: thin cheese requires the least labour and 
attention. 

Breaking the curd is done with the hand and dish. 
The finer the curd is broken the better, particularly 
in thick cheeses. The best colour of this kind of cheese 
is that of bees wax, which is produced by \nnotla, rub- 
bed into the milk after it is warmed. The dairy wo- 
man is to judge of the quality by the colour of the 
milk, as it differs much in strength, 'the runnel is 
prepared by taking some whey ^nd salting till it will 
bear an eggi it is then suffe .td to stand over night, 



26 CHE 

and in the morning it is skimmed and racked off clear; 
to this is added an equal quantity of water brine, 
strong as the whev, and into this mixture, some sweet 
briar, thyme, or some other sweet herbs, also a little 
black pepper and saltpetre ; the herbs are kept in the 
brine three or four days, after which it is decanted 
clear from them Into six quarts of this liquor four 
large calves' bags or more properly called calves' sto- 
machs are put. No part of the preparation is heated, 
and frequently the calves' bags are only steeped in cold 
salt and water. Turning the milk differs in different 
dairies, no two dairy women conduct exactly alike. 

Setting the milk too hot inclines the cheese to 
heave, and cooling it with cold water produces a simi- 
lar effect. The degree of heat varies according to 
the weather. The curd when formed is broken with 
what is called a treple cheese knife. The use of this 
is to keep the fat in the cheese ; it is drawn the depth 
of the curd two or three times across the tub, to give 
the whey an opportunity of running off clear; after a 
few minutes the knife is more freely used, and the 
curd is cut into small pieces like chequers, and is bro- 
ken tine in the whey with the hand and a wooden dish. 
The curd being allowed about half an hour to settle, 
the whey is laded off with the dish, after it is pretty- 
well separated from the curd. 

It is almost an invariable practice to scald the curd. 
The mass is first broken very fine, and then the scald- 
ing whey is ad led to it and stirred a few minutes; 
some make use of hot water in preference to whey r , 
and it is in both cases heated according to the nature 
of the curd : if it is soft, the whey or water is used 
nearlv boiling ; but if hard, it is only used a little hot- 
ter than the hand. After the curd is thoroughly mixed 
with the hot stuff, it is suffered to stand a few minutes 
to settle, and is then separated as at the first operation. 
After the scalding liquor is separated, a vat, or what is 



CHE 2T 

often called a cheese hoop, is laid across the cheese 
Bolder ovW the tub, and the curd is crumbled into it 
with the hands and pressed into the vat. to squeeze 
out the whey. The vat being filled as full and as iirm- 
]y as the hand alone can fili it, and rounded up in the 
middle, a cheese cloth is sprea i over it an<! the curd is 
turned out of the hoop into the cloth ; the vat is then 
washed and the inverted mass of curds, with the cloth 
under it, is returned into the vat and put into the press ; 
after standing" two or three hours in the press, the vat 
is t iken out and the cloth is t ik^n off washed and put 
round the cheese, and it isreptatfi dm the vat and in the 
press. In about seven or eight hours it is tak^n out 
of the pres» and salted, the cheese is placed on a I oard 
and a handful of salt is rubbed all over it. and the edg* 
es are pared off if necessary ; another handful of salt 
is strewed on the upper side, and as much left as will 
stick to it : afterwards it is turned into the hare vat 
without a cloth, and an equal quanlitv of salt is added 
to it, and the cheese is returned into the press ; here it 
continues one night and the next morning- it is turned 
in the vafe, and continues till the succeeding morning, 
and the curd is taken out and placed on the dairy shelf: 
here they are turned ever, day or every other day, 
as the weather may he If it is hot and dry, the win- 
dows and door are kept shut, hut if wet or moist, the 
door and windows are kept open night and day. 

Cleaning- the Cheese. 

The cheeses having remained about ten days after 
leaving the press, are to be washed and scraped in the 
following manner; a large tub of coldsw°et whey is pla- 
ced on the Moor, the cheeses are immerged in it, where 
they continue one hour, or longer if necessary, to soft- 
en the rind. They are then taken out and scraped 
with a common case knife, with great care, so as not 
to injure the tender rind, till every part of the cheese 
tS smooth j they are after the last operation rinsed in 



28 CHE 

the whey and wiped clean with a coarse cloth and pla- 
ced in an airy situation to dry. after $ bich thev "re pla- 
ced in the cheese room The floor of the cheese 
room is generally prepared by rubbing it with bean or 
potatoe tops or any succulent harb, ttil it appears of a 
bla k wet colour; on this floor the cheeses are pl.o 
ed. and turned twice a wet k, thnr edges wiped 

hard with a cloth once a week, and : v e fioo i; cl ans- 
ed and rubbed with fre-h herbs onct a for . i^rl t.~ 
They must not lie too long or they will sticlc to the 
floor. This preparation of the floor gives thr- cheese 
a blue coat, which is considered of great consequence* 

Stilton Cheese-— how made. 

THE Stilton Cheese, which may be called the 
Parmesan of England, is not confined to vStilton and 
its vicinity, for man farmers in Huntingdonshire, and 
also in Rutland and Northamtonshire make a similar 
sort, sell them for the same price, and give them the 
name of the Stilton Cheeses. 

Take the night's cream and put it into the morning's 
n^w milk with the rennet ; when the curd is separat- 
ed let it not be broken as is done with other chVese, 
bui lake it out, di.-turhing it as tittle as possible, and 
sui;er it to dry gradual y in a sieve ; and as the whey 
separate*, compress it gradually tiii it has acquired a 
fi'Ui consistence then place it in a wooden hoop and 
suffer it to dry very gradually on a hoard, taking" rare 
at the same time to turn it daily with close binders 
round, and which must be tightened as the cheese ac- 
quires more solidity. 

Cheese skippers in. 

WR \P the cheese in thin brown paper, so tbin that 
moisture may strike through soon— dig a hole in good 
sweet earth about two feet deep, in which the cheese 



fcnnst be buried about 36 hours, and ihe skippers will 
be found all on the outside of the cheese, brush them 
off in mediately and you will find your cheese sound 
and good. 



To prevent Cheese having 1 # rancid nauseous flavour. 

PUT about one table spoonful of salt to each gallon 
of milk when taken from the cows in the evening-, for 
the cheese to be made the next day ; put the salt at 
the bottom of the vessel that is to receive the milk ; it 
will increase the curd and prevent the milk from grow- 
ing sour or putrid the hottest nights in the summer. 



CHILLBLA1NS. 



To cure Chillblains he/ore they are broken 

WASH them in water as hot as you can bear, and 
dry them with a cloth ; rub them with spirits of tur- 
pentine before the lire and keep them warm. 

Another Remedy. 

. A PLASTER of common turpentine applied 't© 
chillblains, or frosted heels, will it is said in a tew days 
effect a cure. 



china — how mended. 

TAKE apiece of flint glass, beat it to a fine powder* 
and grind it well with the white of an egg, and it joins 
China without riveting, so that no art can break it 
a^ain in the same place. The compostion must be 
ground extremely fine, on a painter's stone. 
D 



30 OHO 

CHINTZ, WASHING OF. 

How to wash Chintz so as to preserve its beauiyi 

TAKE two pounds of rice and boil it in two gallons 
of water till soft ; when done pour the whole into a 
tub; let it stand till about the warmth you use for 
coloured linens, then put your Chintz in and use the 
rice instead of soap, wash it in this till the dirt ap- 
pears to be out ; then boil the same quantity as above, 
jbut strain the rice from the water. Wash in this till 
quite clean: afterwards rinse it in the water yoil 
Lave boiled your rice in, and this will answer the end 
of starch, and no dew will affect it, as it will be stiff as 
long as you wear it If a gown it must be taken to 
pieces ; and when dried, be careful to hang it as smooth 
as possible ; after it is dry rub it with a slick stone but 
ase no iron. 

CHOLERA MORBUS. 

TAKE a soft cork and burn it thoroughly in the 
fire when it ceases to blaze, mix it up on a plate with a 
little milk and water< or any thing: more agreeable, and 
repeat the dose till the disorder ceases ; which it com- 
monly does in the second or third administration of the 
remedy by correcting the acidity of the stomach. 

Another Remedy, 

T4#E a small handful of the leaves of either pep- 
permint or spearmint, rather more than half as much 
of the leaves of tansey, mix them, and put them in a 
soft thin flannel bag, large enough to cover the stom- 
ach and bowels; quilt the bag through in several 
places so as to prevent the herbs from falling t© one 
i»lace, which would be very oppressive and injurious. 



CID 31 

then put in a sufficient quantity of hot brandy to wet 
it through, and apply it over the stomach and bowels, 
about blood heat ; wet the bag several times through 
the day with warm brandy, and change the herbs every 
evening — it must not be taken off until the patient is 
quite recovered. The above will render the stomach 
retentive ; then give them every morning or two a tea- 
spoonful of the syrup of rhubarb, and in the latter 
part of the afternoon, about eight drops of sweet 
nitre every hour for three hours in succession. By 
continuing the above for a few days, more or less, ac- 
cording as the child might seem to require it, the 
writer has had the satisfaction of seeing a great many 
children perfectly restored, and never knew it fail — 
but they must not eat or drink any thing the least sour, 
such as unripe fruits, new cheese or any thing that is 
hard of digestion ; ripe blackberries afe very good, or 
if they should wish old cheese, fresh butter, a little 
sweet ham or eggs, either boiled or fryed, they may 
be indulged with safety. The quantity of rheubarb 
and sweet spirits of nitre is for a child of one year old. 

Another. 

RICE-WATER, very strong, with much sugar and a 
little laudanum in it drank plentifully. 



IN making cider see that the mill, the press, and all 
the materials be sweet and clean and the straw free 
from must. The fruit should be ripe, hut not rotten, 
and when the apples are ground, if the juice is left in 
the pumice 24 hours, the cider will be richer, softer 
and higher coloured. If the fruit be all of one kind, 
it is generally thought that the cider will be better; as 
the fermentation will be more regular. The juice of 
*he fruit, as it comes from the press should be placed 



32 C I D 

in open headed casks or vats : in this situation, it is like-- 
ly to undergo a proper fermentation, and the person 
attending may with great correctness ascertain when 
the first fermentation ceases ; this is of great import- 
ance, and must be particularly attended to. The fer- 
rrentation is attended with a hissing noise, bubbles ris- 
ing to the surface and there torming a soft spongy crust 
over the liquor. When this crust begins to crack, and 
a white froth appears in the cracks level with the sur- 
face of the head, the fermentation is about stopping. 
At this time the liquor is in the fine genuine clear state, 
and must be drawn oft immediately into clean casks ; 
and this is the time to fumigate it with sulphur. To 
do this, take a strip of canvas or rag, about two inches 
broad and twelve inches long, dip this into melted sul- 
phur, and when a few pails of worked cider are put 
into the cask, set this match on fire and hold it in the 
■task till it is consumed, then bung the cask and shake 
it that the liquor may incorporate with, and retain the 
fumes ; after this, fill the cask and bung it up This 
cider should be racked off again the latter part of Feb- 
ruary, or first of March ; and if not as clear as you wish 
it, put in isinglass, to fine ; and stir it well ; then put 
the cask in a cool place where it will not be disturbed, 
for the finery to settle. Cider, prepared in this man- 
ner will keep sweet for years. 

Mr. Deane observes "I have found it answer well to 
do nothing to cider till March, or the beginning of April, 
except giving a cask a small vent hole, and keeping it 
open till the first fermentation is over ; then draw it off 
into good casks ; and then fine it with skim milk, eggs 
broke up with the shells, or molasses. A quart of mo- 
lasses will give a fine flavour to a barrel of cider, as 
well as carry all the lees to the bottom. But lest it 
sliould incline the liquor to prick I put in at the same 
time a quart of rum or brandy; and it seldom fails of 
keeping well to the end of summer. Cellars in which 
cider is kept should have neither doors nor windows 



C C— C O D 3$ 

kept open in the summer, and the casks should stand 
steady and not be shaken to disturb the sediment. 

The casks which contain new cider should be filled 
perfectly full to permit the froth or pummice to dis- 
charge itself at the bung. The pressure of the pum- 
mice should be slow that the liquor may run the clear- 
er. Some say that if the cider be racked off in a week 
after it is made, ceasing the moment it becomes muddy ; 
in ten days a second time, and in fifteen days a third 
time, it will need no other process for fining or purify- 
ing it. In every instance the casks should be clean, 
and perfectly filled, and when filled for the last time 
should be bunged up close, and placed in a deep, dry 
cellar, never to be moved till drawn off for use. 

The later the apples hang on the trees, the more 
spirit the cider will contain. In bottling cider it is re- 
commended to raise the proof of the cider by putting 
in about two tea spoonfuls of French brandy to each 
bottle, which will check fermentation, and prevent the 
bursting of the bottles. 



COCK-ROACHES, 

IT is said that a few leaves of elder, strewed on the 
floor of a room infested with cock-roaches will extir- 
pate those insects. 



COD-FISH. 

DUN, or dried cod-fish ought not to be boiled to 
have it tender ; it operates as on an egg^ an oyster or 
a clam, the more you boil it the harder it grows. Let 
it simmer on or near the fire, in a kettle, two or three 
hours according as the fish is hard, and then change 
ihe water; and before dishing, put this up to near boil* 

d 2 



34 C O F 

ing heat but not higher. This management does not 
draw out but revives the glutinous, and enlivens the 
nutritious substance in them, and leaves the fish ten- 
der and delicious. 



COFFEE. 

Jlrt of making Coffee. 

THE celebrated Count Kumford observes, "There 
js no culinary process that is liable to so much uncer- 
tainty in its results, as the making of Coffee ; and there 
is certainly none, in which any small variation in the 
mode of operation produces more sensible effects — 
Of the various modes recommended, we believe the 
following the most advantageous. 

Take of ground coffee one ounce, to one pound or a 
pint of water ; this proportion agrees pretty nearly 
with that presented by the count ; — put the coffee in- 
to a coffee pot, the shape of it cylindrical, and the 
spout placed near the top ; pour the water upon it 
boiling ; place the pot over a slow fire or a lamp ; 
there will appear, upon the aurface, almost immediate- 
ly, innumerable small bubbles ; in a few seconds these 
will form themselves into one hemispherical bubble, 
extending to the side of the pot ; on this bursting; eb- 
ullition follows, and it must be taken from the fire ; 
throw into it the white of an egg^ a smail piece of isin- 
glass, hartshorn shavings, or any other tasteless mucil- 
aginous substance ; and in three or four minutes the 
giounds will be carried down, the liquor left perfectly 
clear and fit for use. If no mucilaginous substance is 
at hand, in two or three minutes more, the grounds 
will subside of themselves, and the liquor be left suffi- 
ciently cleafc 

coffee — How made of Rye, 4"C. 
SEE Rye Coffee in the following pages. 



COL 35 



COLD. 



SWEET oil and loaf sugar made «ip like a syrup is 
recommended for a cold, especially when attended with 
a sore throat. 

An excellent vegetable balsam for soreness of the breast, 
coughs, fyc. 

DISSOLVE over the fire, one pound of white su- 
gar candy in a quantity of white wine vinegar, &ai a- 
bout three pints, until it is reduced by evaporation to 
one pint ; during the operation let as much garlick as 
possible be dissolved with it. Tbh preparation will 
answer all the purposes of Godbolu's vegetable baisam, 
and is probably the same. 

Another Remedy for a Cold. 

IF a person is attacked with unusual chilliness, pain 
in the head and back, oppression of the breast, on the 
first appearance of those svmptoms bathe the feet in 
warm water for fifteen minutes, wipe them dry, draw 
on the- stockings and immediately go to bed, and drink 
freely of strong snake root tea. 

Another. — For an ulcerated soar throat* 

DROP some good brandy on a piece of refined lump 
sugar till it has absorbed as much as it will contain, 
which suffer to remain i ; the mouth till it be gradually 
dissolved. — Repeat the same four or five time a day ; 
and in the course of a few days the ulcer will wholly 
disappear. 

colic bilious. 
TAKE one quart of hickory ashes, one tea cup full 



36 CO N—C R 

of soot, add to it three quarts of water poured on boil- 
ing hot, pour it into an earthen pot, cover it close and 
let it remain twelve hours, then pour it off clear, or 
filter it through s paper, put it into bottles and keep it 
in a cool place and it is fit for use. For a grown per- 
son take a wine glass full of it, and if that don't remove 
the pain, repeat the dose every half hour until reliev- 
ed : if the pain is not very acute, one or two doses 
will be sufficient ; to a child a tea spoonful will do for 
a dose. 

CONSUMPTION. 

TAKE a handful of the herb called Horehound, put 
it into two quarts of water, boil it down one half- 
after straining put in some honey or molasses ; put it 
on the fire to incorporate ; then add a little old rum, 
and cork it up Take half a tea-cup full filled up with 
warm milk; if you cannot readily procure milk warm 
from the cow?, make cold milk blood warm.— Take 
a tea cup full before breakfast, and another about 
noon upon an empty stomach. 

Dissolve over a chaffing dish of coals in a tight room 
an equal quantity of rosin and yellow wax. Let the 
patient remain in the room as long as convenient, and 
fiis strength will admit, and repeat the operation three 
or four times a day. 

corks of Wine- Bottles, how secured. 

CUT the Cork off even, wipe the Cork and neck of 
the bottle dry, dip it in a melted composition of wax 
two ounces, rosin four ounces. 



corn, musty, cure for. 
IMMERSE it in boiling water, and let it remain till 



COR— C Otf 37 

the water becomes cold The quantity of water should 
be at least double the quantity of corn to be purified. 



CORNS. 

A remedy for corns on the feet* 

ROAST a clove ofgarlick on a live coal, or in hot 
ashes, apply it to the corn, and fasten it on with a 
piece of cloth. This must be made use of the moment 
of going to bed. 

Some assert that if you take a little nnwrought cot- 
ton, lay it on the part affected, and wear it a week or 
two the corn will disappear. 

It is likewise asserted that chalk formed into a paste 
will cure corns. 

Take the skin of a codfish, after it has lain in the 
cellar, or a place where it has gathers d moisture a 
day or two, and bind it on the corn, and keep it till it 
is perfectly sound. 



COUGH. 

Whooping Cough. — THE sulphate of potass (form- 
erly called liver of sulphur) has been extoile<i as a rem- 
edy in this disease. Dose, six grains every four hours 
for an adult. 

Another remedy. 

TAKE equal portions of new milk, and the lye 
strained from ashes of hickory bark, of which one table 
spoonful may be given every hour through the day to 
a child of seven years old. 



38 C R A— C R O 

Cough in the early stage of Consumption, 

Let ten grains of crude opium be rubbed with thir- 
ty grains of volatile alkali, two drachms volatile spirits 
of ammonia, and one half ounce of peppermint water 
— of this well shaken, a tea spoonful may be taken 
three times a day in a little w r eak tea. 

Gentleman'* s Magazine. 

IT is said that innoculation for the cow pox will 
arrest the whooping cough. 

Another remedy for Whooping Cough. 

TAKE dried colt's-foot leaves (that have not been 
gathered more than a year) a good handful, cut them 
small, and boil them in a pint of spring- water, till hhii 
a pint is boiled away ; then take it off the fire, and 
when it is almost cold, strain it through a cloth, squeez- 
ing the herb dry as you can, and then throw it away. 
Dissolve in the liquor an ounce of sugar candy, finely 
powdered, and to a child three or four years old give 
one spoonful of it, cold or warm as the season favours, 
three or four times a day or oftener if the fits of 
coughing come frequently, till well. For older or 
younger person* the quantity may be increased, or di- 
minished as thought proper. 

This preparation is useful also in asthmas phthysic, 
shortness of breath consumptions, &c. 

N. B. When sugar candy cannot conveniently be 
had, perhaps honey or good clean brown sugar would 
answer. Sugar candy is, however to be preferred. 

Another. 

DISSOLVE a scruple of salt of Tartar in a gill of 
water; add ten grains of cochineal finely powdered^ 



C R A— C R O 

sweeten this with fine sugar. Give to an infant the 
fourth part of a tade spoonful four times a day j and 
from four upwards a Spoonful may be taken. The 
relief i> immediate, and the cure in general effected 
witmn 5 or 6 davs. 



CRAMP. 

RUB the part with camphor dissolved in oil. 

'.ROIF. 

Cure for the Croup, vulgarly called the Rattles. 

IT is allowed by the best physicians in the country, 
that the croup, formerly a very fatal disease, i? now 
successfully treated with a weak solution of corrosive 
sublimate, to be given in small quantities every fifteen 
minutes till it causes puking. This medicine, though 
a dangerous instrument in the hands of ignorance, when 
judiciously managed has snatched many a child from 
the jaws of death. 

Another remedy for Croup. 

[By Dr. John Archer of Hartford County, Maryland.] 

MAKE a strong decoction of the Seneka root in the 
following manner, viz. half an ounce of Seneka, in 
coarse, powder boil in eight ounces of water down to 
four. Of this give a teaspoonful every half hour, as 
the urgency of the symytoms may require, and at inter- 
vals a few drops to keep up the stimulus, until it either 
acts as an emetic or cathartic. Then repeat it in sim- 
ilar quantities, so as to preserve the stimulus of seneka 
constantly in the mouth or throat. 






40 CUC 

If the disease be 'more advanced, and the breathing 
more difficult, give calomel frequently and freely, and 
rub mercurial ointment on the throat and contiguous 
parts so as to effect the glands of the throat and mouth 
as quickly as possible, that the mercury may co-ope- 
rate with the action or stimulus of the seneka. 



CUCUMBER. 

TAKE a very tight barrel tub ; fill it up to the bung 
With stones, then a little straw, and earth enough o- 
Ver tie straw to fill the barrel. Fill the lower ha f 
with water, but instead of letting it s eep through the 
earth, it should be passed through a tube, placed in the 
earth for that purpose, as often as more water is wan- 
ted. The bung should be left out and the water kept 
as high as the hole by repeated waterings. The 
plants lying so high will be kept out of the way of in- 
sects, iror will they suffer by drought. The plants, 
however, should once in a while be a little sprinkled 
with water if the season be very dry. 

To preserve Cucumbers and Squashes from bugs andjlies, 

SPRINKLE the plants with a strong infusion of elder 
leaves ; and that of hops is likewise recommended. 
Or, 

Suspend a diamond formed piece of white paper, 
shingie or other piece of wood by a thread, tied to the 
end ©f a stick stuck in the ground a small distance 
from the hill so that the paper will hang directK over 
the hill, and near the plants. The air by constantly 
vibrating the paper Or shingle will have a tendency to 
prevent insects from alighting on the plants. Or, 

In the morning when the dew is on sprinkle the 
plants with fine dust of slacked lime. 



CUR 4i 

To render Cucumbers wholesome. 

SLICE cucumbers into a basin of cool spring" water, 
and it will render them not only more crisp and fine 
but much more wholesome, and prevent their ris : ng in 
the stomach. The water will completely take away 
the pernicious juice of the cucumber; which is the 
principal cause of its disagreeing with the stomach. 

curculio. 

THE curculio is a genus of insects belonging to the 
Beetle-order. In its maggot state it is bedded in ap- 
ples and other fruits, producing what is vulgarly called 
Ivoimy fruit Poultry and hogs are great devourers of 
this insect both in the beetle and maggot state. Pas- 
turing orchards with swine sufficient to eat all the 
apples which fall i* a good antidote to the ravages of 
these insects. Placing little bits of board, about the 
size of a case knife dipped in tar or turpentine in the 
tops of fruit trees is recommended, as all terebenthinate 
substances are very offensive to all kinds of insects. 
From three to five bits according to the size of the 
tree are said to be sufficient. They should be placed 
soon after the trees are in full bloom, and the applica- 
tion of the tar frequently renewed while the fruit hangs 
•a the tree. 



CURRANTS. 

Directions for the culture of the Currant-bush. 

THE currant-bush, though a shrub that grows al- 
most spontaneously, requires nevertheless some dress- 
ing ; in regard to whichthe following directions may b« 
of service. 

E 



42 CUR 

Plant them round the q^rters of your garden, that 
they may have the ^benefit of the dung and culture 
annually bestowed 'thereon, which will consequently 
make the berries large and the juice rich. 

The red currant is preferable to the white, as yield- 
ing richer juice and in much greater quantity. 

Take the most luxuriant slips or shoots of a year's 
growth, set them in the ground about eight inches 
deep, and not less than twenty four distant from each 
other ; these never fail of taking root, and generally 
begin to bear in about two years. For the rest, let 
them from time to time be treated as espaliers (but not 
against a wall) observing to keep the roots, especially 
in the spring of the year, free from suckers and grass. 



CURRANT WINE. 

PICK the currants clear from the stalk, put them 
into an earthen vessel, and pour on a gallon of currants 
one quart of hot water. Mash them together and iet 
them stand and ferment ; cover them for twelve hours, 
and then strain them through linnen into a cask, add a 
little yeast and when worked and settled bottle it off, 
In one week's time it will be fit for use. 

Another Receipt, 

G\THER your currants when full ripe, which will 
commonly be about the middle ol July ; break them 
well in a tub or vat, (some have a mill constructed for 
the purpose, consisting of a hopper, fixed upon two 
lififnum vitae rollers) press and measure your juice, add 
two thirds water, and to each erallon of that mixture 
(i e. juice and water) put three pounds of museovado 
sugar (the clean?.r and drier the better; very coarse 
«ugar, first clarified, will do equally as well) stir it well 4 



D A I— D E A— D EN 43 

(ill the sugar is quite dissolved, and then turn it up. 
If you can possibly prevent it, let not your juice stand 
overnight, as it should not ferment before mixture. 

Observe, that your casks be sweet and clean, and 
such as have had neither beer nor cider in them, and 
if new let them be first well seasoned. 



DAIRY SECRET. 



FT WE ready two pans in boiling water; and on the 
new milk's coming to the dairy, take the hot pans out 
of the water, put the milk into one of them, and cover 
it with the other. This will occasion great augmenta- 
tion in the thicknes and quality of the cream. 



DEAFNESS. 



PUT a table spoonful of bay salt into nearly half a, 
pint of cold water; and after it has eteeped twenty-two 
hours (now and then shaking the phial) cause a small 
tea-spoonful to be p< u ed into the ear most affected 
every night on going to bed, for eight nights succes- 
sively. 



DENTIFRICE. 



TAKE of myrrh, Peruvian bark, and calicined oys- 
ter shells, all finely powdered, each an ounce, and of 
powdered charcoal half an ounce ; if too black you 
may reduce the quantity of the last article to a quarter 
at an ounce. See Teeth in the following pages. 



44 DIE 



die— ^BlacJc for linnen, 

MIX in a large bottle, with a quart of soft water, 
two and a half ounces of common aquafortis, and, 
adding gradually the same quantity of litharge, slightly 
cork the bottle, occasionally shake it, and keep 
it in a warm situation ; after a few days the liquid 
may be poured into a deep earthen, leaden, or pewter 
vessel, in which the linnen to be dried, being first 
well washed, though not bleached, should be immersed 
for ten or twelve hours ; being then taken out and 
three times washed and rinsed in cold water, it is to be 
dipped in a weak solution of common glue, again rin- 
sed and hung in a shade to dry. In a quart of rain or 
other soft water, three quarters of an ounce of well 
bruised galls are next to be boiled for eight or ten 
minutes, when the like quantity of common salt must 
be added ; as soon as the salt is dissolved, the linen 
should be boWed seven or eight minutes in the liquor, 
after which it must be taken out, washed, wrung 
three times as before, audo'ried in the shade. At this 
stage of the process the linnen will receive a dark 
gray yellowish tinge, which disposes it for the better 
reception of the colour. It is now to be immersed for 
eight or ten hours, in a liquid composed of three 
quarters of an ounce each of copperas, or vitriol of 
iron, and common salt, dissolved in a quart of hot wa- 
ter, after which it is to be again washed, iinsed, and 
hung to dry in the shade. For striking the black 
colour, three quarters of an ounce of logwood is to be 
boiled for seven or eight minutes in somewhat more 
than half a gallon of rain or river water, when a quar- 
ter of an ounce of white starch, previously mixed with 
a little cold water, to prevent its rising in lumps, must 
be added ; this being perfectly dissolved, the linnen is 
to be boiled in the liquor for seven or eight minutes, 
when it must again be rinsed and dried as before. It 
will then acquire a fine black tinge ; but if the die be 



DRO «5 

not deep enough, it is again to be dipped and treated in 
the same manner, as often as may be necessary to eflV-ct 
this purpose. As, however, the linen will not in this 
state admit of being washed in lie or soap water with- 
out losing its colour, it is to be dipped in a cold solu- 
tion, prepared by boiling- seven or eight minutes, an 
ounce of well bruised galls in a quart of the glue water, 
wherein an ounce of copperas must then be dissolved. 
The linen having remained au hour in this liquor, 
must be pressed and dried in the shade : when it will 
have acquired a beautiful, deep, and durable black 
colour capable of being washed with the same security 
as any other died colour whatever. 



DROPSY, 

MIX a pound of the coarsest sugar, a pint of juice 
of pelitory of the wall, bruised in a mortar, boil it as 
long as any scum rises, when cool bottle and cork it 
If very bad take three spoonfuls at night and one in 
the morning. 

Another. 

M.\KE a tea of the roots of dwarf elder, and after 
every discharge of urine drink a tea cup full. 

Another, 

COVER the whole belly with a large new sponge s 
dipped in strong lime water, and squeezed out This 
bound on often cures without any evacuation of water. 

Another, 

TAKE a six quart jug of old hard cyder, put therein 
a pint of mustard seed, one double handtul of lignum 
vitae shavings, one double handful of horseradish roots ; 
e2 



46 DRO 

let them simmer together over a slow fire forty-eight 
hours, when it will be fit for use. Take a teacup full 
three times a day. 



browned persons — directions for recovering. 

THE following directions have been published by 
the Dublin Humane Society: — 

"What thou doest, do quickly." 

1. Convey the body carefully, with the head a littU 
raised to the nearest convenient house. 

2. Stiip and dry the body; clean the mouth and 
nostrils. 

3. An adult lay the body on a bed or blanket near 
the fire or in a warm chamber; if in the summer, ex- 
pose it to the sun. 

4. A child ; place it between two persons in a warm 
bed. 

5. Rub the body gently with flannel, sprinkled with 
spirits. 

6. Restore breathing by introducing the pipe of a bel- 
lows (where the apparatus cannot be immediately 
procured) into one nostril, keeping the other and the 
mouth closed, gently inflate the lungs, alternately com- 
press the breast, and then let the mouth and nostrils 
Jree. 

7. Apply warm bricks to the soles of the feet, and 
warm spirits to the palms of the hands, and the pit of 
the stomach. 



D Y S 47 

8. Persist in these means for three hours at leasty^w 
until life be restored. 

Cautions. — 1. Never to be held up by the heels. 

2. Not to be rolled on casks, or other rough usages. 

3. Not to allow into the room more than six persons, 

4. Not to rub the body with salt. 

General Observations. — On signs of returning life, 
and if swallowing be returned, a small quantity (often 
repeated) of warm wine and water, or diluted spirits, 
should be given ; the patient put into a warm bed, and 
if disposed put to sleep. 

Electricity and bleeding are never to be employed^ 
unless by the directions of a medical gentleman. 

DYSENTERY. 

Dr. BoyWs remedy for Dysentery. 

TAKE new churned fresh butter, melt it over a 
clear fire, and skim off the curdy part. Give two 
spoonfulls of the clarified remainder two or three 
times a day. It seldom fails to effect a speedy cure. 

Another remedy. 

TAKE two glasses of sweet oil— two glasses West 
India molasses — two glasses West India rum — simmer 
well together over a fire till it becomes the thickness 
of honey, so that the oil may not separate from the 
rest. While on the fire keep it well stirred, and when 
taken off, continue the same till cool. Then the pa- 
rent, if a grown person, should take a spoonful once jit 



46 E A R— E E L— E L B 

an hour till he finds the disease abating — then once in 
two hours, or as the judgment may suggest until cured, 

Indian cure for the Dysentery or Bloody Flux. 

TAKE the root of cat-tail, (a flag) boil it mode- 
rately in sweet milk, and take as much as you pleaso, 
as it hurts none and will soon cure that complaint. 



EAR ACHE. 

PUT a clove of garlick into the ear, or apply a 
poultice of one over it. A blister behind the ear : the 
juice of rue, or cotton wet with laudanum and put into 
the ear. 

eels, method of roasting. 

HAVING skinned and washed some of the finest 
la»ge eels, cut them in three, four, or five pieces, ac- 
cording to their lengths. Make a seasoning of grated 
nutmeg, pepper and salt, with a little thyme, sage and 
lemon peel, all well beaten or shred, and mixed plen- 
tifully with crumbs of bread. Strew this well on the 
eels, stick them across on skewers, tie the skewers to 
the spit, baste them continually, and let them roast till 
they begin to crack and appear white at the bone. 
When taken up send them to the table with melted 
butter and lemon juice, which will make the best sauce 
for them, as the seasoning gives them an exquisite rel- 
ish. They may be fried or broiled thus seasoned, 
with very good effect, 



elder juice, kills skippers in meat cheese, <$•«. 

TAKE the leaves of elder and bruise them in a moi- 
tar. Rub the leaves tjius bruised over uie meat, 



E G G— E L I 49 

(hams, smoked beef, &c ) and if there are any holes in 
meat in which the skippers have found their way, 
pour in a little of the juice, and they will roll out in a 
short time. The application of elder juice does not 
communicate any bad taste to the meat. 



EGGS 

MAY be preserved by anointing them with lard or 
any greasy or oily substance for months, and some say 
years. The oily substance closes the pores, hinders 
the access of air, and thus prevents putrefaction. They 
should be anointed soon after they are laid. 

Superior mode of cooking Eggs. li A boiled egg is a 
spoiled egg.^ Apicius. 

BOIL a quantity of water, sufficient, for the eggs you 
wish to use in a saucepan. Take it off when boiling, 
and place it a little distance from the fire Put in the 
eggs cover them over with the lid, and let them 
continue in the water for two, three or four minutes, 
according as you wish them to be done. Eggs thus 
cooked are far more delicate than those boiled in the 
usual manner, even one half minute's boiling on the 
fire being sufficient to destroy that delicate flavour 
found in coddled eggs. They may be thus cooked 
even at the table, a kettle with boiling water being 
brought in, and the water poured from it on the eggs 
in a basin, which being closely covered immediately, 
will nearly answer the same purpose. 



elixir — Stoug/iton''s. 

PARE off the thin yellow rinds of six large Seville 
oranges, and put them into a quart bolTJe, with an 
ounce of gentian root scraped and sliced, and half a 



50 EPI— EYE 

dram of cochineal. Pour to these ingredients a pint of 
the best brandy ; shake the bottle well, several limes, 
during that and the following day r let it stand two 
davs more to settle ; and clear it off into bottles for use.. 
Take one or two spoonsful morning and evening, in a 
glass of wine, or even in a cup of tea. As a pleasant 
and safe family medicine this elixir of Dr. Stoughton i« 
highly recommended. 



EPILEPTIC ELECTUARY, FOR THE CURE OF THE FALLING 
SICKNESS, HYSTERICS, &C 

TAKE six drams of powdered Peruvian bark, two 
drams of pulverized Virginia snake root, and a sufficient 
quantity of sirup of piony to make it up into a soft elec- 
tuary. This is said, by a celebrated physician, to have 
been experimentally found a most prevalent and most 
certain remedy One dram of this electuary, after 
proper evacuations having been had, being given to 
grown persons, and a less dose to those who are young- 
er, every morning and evening for three or four months, 
and then repeated for three or four days before the 
change and full of the moon, absolutely eradicates epi- 
leptic and hysteric diseases, and also those strange en* 
ileptic saltations called bt. Vitus's dance. 



EYE-STONE. 

IT is said that a grain of flax seed possesses all the 
valuable properties of the eye stone. 



EYE-WATER. 

Edinburgh Eye- Water. 

PUT white vitriol the bigness of a nut into two 
gills of white rose water j with as much fine loaf w 



F E A— F E L 61 

gar as vitriol. When it is dissolved shake the bottle, 
an<! on going to bed wash tfce eves with it usiag a soft 
clean cloth. 

For euring weak and weeping Fyes. 

MAKE a strong decoction of camomile boiled in 
sweet cow.** milk ; with this let the patient's eyes he 
bathed several times a day as warm as can be suffered 
without uneasiness Persons, almost Mind, have been 
cured by persevering in the use of this prescription. 
It is proper, however, to observe that frequently 5 or 
6 weeks bathing of the eyes is necessary. 

For inflamed Eyes. 

TO two ounces of water add two grains of lapi* 
caliminaris, and the same quantity of white vitriol. 



FEATHERS, bones. &c. — how coloured 

FEATHERS, Rones, &c. may be coloured blue, red, 
green, yellow, Sec by the following process. After 
boiling them in allum water, steep them in an infusion 
of red wood to form a red — in a blue pot, or juice of 
elder berries for blue — in lime water and verdigtm, or 
nitrate of copper for green, andm a tincture of saffron 
for yellow. 



FELL0N. 

An effectual cure for a Fellon. 

BATHE the part affected in ashes and water ; take 
the yolk of an egg, six drops of the spirits of turpentine, 
a few beet leaves cut fine, a small quantity of hard soap, 
due teaspoonful of snuff or fine tobacco ; then add one 



52 FEV 

table spoonful of burnt salt and one of Indian meal, and 
it never fails to effect a cure if applied in season. 

Another Cure. 

VERATRUM Album, White Helebore, or Poke 
Hoot, has been recently discovered to be an effectual 
remedy for this complaint The finger or part affect- 
ed should be soaked in warm milk and water, and co- 
vered with a thin membrane: a poultice made of 
wheat bran, and a strong decoction of this root is then 
applied, and repeated as often as it becomes dry or the 
pain returns. It operates as a powerful sedative, al- 
lays the pain, procures rest and sleep, and produces 
shortly a healthy action. 



fever — Yellow. 

THE following has been published in the National 
Advocate, a New-York paper, as a preservative against 
this disorder. 

Take one pint of milk, and set it to boil, then put ia 
a table -spoonful of cream of tartar, and, when turndd 
into whey, drain the same through a linen cloth ; after- 
wards set it again to boil, and put in the white ot an 
egg^ after its being beat into a paste, and when well 
boiled, drain it anew, which will give a beautiful clari- 
fied whey, which is to be taken sweetened with white 
sugar to one's taste, in two doses, one in the morning, 
and the other in the afternoon, an hour before meals, 
either cold or blood warm to suit fancy. 

fever — Typhus. 

A BELFAST newspaper give* the following as a^ure 
for typhus fever* 



F E V 63 

Put one table spoonful of barm (or yeast) into a nog- 
gin, (or gill) of warm porter ; stir it well, and while 
warm give it to the patient, repeating it every six 
hours while any symptom of fever remains ; then re- 
duce it to ten or twelve hours, and as the patient re- 
covers, increase the distance of time to once a day. If 
porter cannot be had give beer • and if neither can be 
harl, give warm water. If barm is not to be procured, 
ni-ike a poker red hot, and put it into half a pint of 
fresh porter or beer, and give the draught to the pa- 
tient as warm as he can take it. This remedy has 
been used by Lady O Brien, in seventy two cases on 
her estates, seventy of whom recovered ; it has also 
been administered most successfully in the Fever Hos- 
pital at Parson's Town, where scarcely a death has ta- 
ken place since it was introduced. 

Another Remedy. 

A DUBLTN" paper savs, Take two gallons of salt 
water — if it is not convenient take fresh ; but if it is 
salt water it will not require any alkali Fresh water 
two gallons; Epsom salts four ounces, tar half a pound 
— combine those articles, stii the ingredients when- 
ever it is used, and a tumbler full taken as occasion re- 
quires, will extirpate the malady. 

Another Remedy. 

TO half a pint of boiling water put about an ounce 
of dry pearlash, dip a flannel in it, and wet the whole 
surface of the body. In 19 minutes prepare a new 
wash, and repeat the application. Keep wet 'flannels 
on painful parts, keeping them wet, until the pain is 
removed. Give half a pint of warm water, after it has 
been boiled with a small quantity of pearlash, every 10 
minutes till a free perspiration is produced, which in 
general will be in ahout two hours; th n give half a 
pint of warm water with or without pearl ash, once ia 
F 



64 F I L— F I S 

20 minute?, for 2 or 3 day*. Put half a teaspoonful of 
pear! ash in each of the two first pints, and in the fol- 
lowing 1 1-8 of a teaspoonful to each naif pint. Wash 
the body as above once in eight hours. 

fever — Billions. 

TAKE a quarter of a pound of Rochelle salts (which 
are the best for this fever) one or two handful? of snake 
root, to be bruised and made into tea — a Jumble r foil 
of this tea poured on to the salts to dissolve them If 
the indisposition is slight, a wine glass full of the snake 
root and salts is to be taken every half hour till it op- 
erates—if the indisposition is violent a wine glass full 
is to be taken every quarter of an hour, care must be 
taken against the patient's vomiting When the snake 
roots and salts have operated freely, and the fever is 
broken or extinguished, a wine glass full of snake root 
tea alone mu*t be taken every half hour, till the pa- 
tient is out of danger, or at the discretion of some pro- 
per person. 

film — Cure for 

TAKE the white of a new laid egar, into which stir 
a large teaspoonful of alum powdered ver> fine and sif- 
ted, until it becomes a curd. Pour this upon a fine 
Holland or cambric cloth placed over a small boul, 
or cup, so as to receive the liquor, and to leave it to 
filtrate of itself. The liquor thus obtained, which is 
very limpid and clear, and is seldom more than a tt a- 
spoonful, is to be dropped into the eye in small quanti- 
ties, five or six times in the course of a day, or as of- 
ten as can be borne. 



FI3H SAUCE. 

TAKE three well beaten yolks of egg*- two ancho- 
vies, a quarter rf a pound of butter, with as much floor 



F L E— F L I— F OU 55 

as will lie on the point of a case knife, two spoonsful 
of elder vinegar, a small bunch of sweet herbs, and a 
little pepper, salt and nutmeg. Stir these all on the 
fire (ill the liquor is thick, but it must not be suffered 
to boil. If it be not sufficiently sharp, squeeze in in a 
little lemon juice, and pour it over the fish. 



FLEAS. 

TO keep off fleas keep in or or about your bed, a 
sprig of penny royal, or put on }Our bed clothes a few 
drops of the essence. 



FILES. 

TWO drachms of the extract of Quassia, dissolved 
in 1-2 pint of hot water, and sweetened with sugar, 
and set in a place frequented by flies will destroy 
them. 



FOUNDER 15 G.VTTLE. 

THERE are two species of founder in cattle, that 
>s in horses, cows and sheep, though tbe same dis- 
ease, pass under different names i e. the /iwf, w hen re- 
sulting from too freely feeding- on green clover, and 
when arising from eating too much grain potatoes, 
bran or the like, ike. founder, commonly so called. 

Ca'ile have he^n known to die from all these causes; 
disease is the same, and requires the same pro- 
cess of cure ; which if seasonably administered is effec- 
tual and sure. 

The founder shews itself by the swelling of the bo- 
dy, by symptoms of violent pain, by gripings, voiding 



$$ FOU 

blood, stiffness of the limbs, trembling, groans, debility, 
and after a time by the shedding of the hoofs and hair 
from the effect of a burning fever. The cause of this 
violent derangement of the animal system is repletion 
of nutriment in the stomach. The powers of diges- 
tion are overdone ; and acidity arises on the stomach, 
which corrodes the coats,causes inflammation and fe\er t 
with violent pain. The food instead of being conver- 
ted into nutriment and assimilated, is decomposed, and 
the carbonic acid is generated, either in gas or in union 
with the water. In the former case the gas or wind 
is sometimes let out with a knife, and the life of the 
beast saved, but it is a dangerous resort, and happily a 
less violent and more efficacious remedy is at hand, by 
the chemical agency of which the carbonic acid is ob- 
viated, and a complete cure is effected by neutralising 
the acid, and thus destroying its corrosive quality. By 
the combination of an alkali with the carbonic acid, a 
neutral salt, called fhe carbonate of the alkali is produ- 
ced, which is perfectly innoxious, and passes off with- 
out detriment 

Take of potash a lump of the size of an egg or ap- 
ple, for a cow, more for a horse and in proportion for 
a sheep ; dissolve it in water, and from a bottle pour it 
down the throat of the beast. If necessary repeat the 
dose in smaller quantities. An immediate effect will 
be seen in the abatement of the symptoms. In a beast 
of size a pound of Glauber's sails to work the whole off 
might not be amiss but the cure is principally to be at- 
tributed to the alkali — When potash is not at hand a 
lie made of ashes on the occasion will answer the pur- 
pose. Pour water on the ashes, and take the liquor 
in larger quantities in proportion as it is of less 
strength. 



F O W— F II O 67 



FOWLS. 

CORN given to fowls should be crushed and soaked 
in water ; this helps digestion, and hens will lay in win- 
ter that are so fed that would not otherwise. 

Feed your fowls in winter with bones, pounded fine; 
and they will need less corn, and will lay as plentifully 
as at any sea«ou of the year. The bones supply the 
carbonate of lime, which is necessary for the produc- 
tion of the shell, and a part of the yolk of the egg. — 
Egg shells, oyster shells, chalk or unburnt lime answer 
a similar purpose. 

Bombay method of dressing a Fowl. 

THE fowl being trussed, incisions are made in every 
part, the same as when a fowl is about to be carved, 
but without severing the joints. The breast is cut as 
for taking out slices, and the legs scored across. The 
whole fowl, inside and out, is then rubbed well with 
pepper and salt, and a little Cayenne .pepper, so as to 
be very highly seasoned. After this, it is enclosed in 
a good thick paste, composed of flour, milk and butter; 
one end of which is left open to till it with water; this 
being done, it is closed up, put into a cloth, and boiled 3 
or 4 hours ; when it becomes a rich and most relishing 
dish. 



FROST-BITTEN FEET. 

TAKE the fat of a dung-hill fowl, and rub the place 
or places affected with it, morning and evening over a 
warm fire ; at the same time wrapping a piece of wool- 
len cloth, well greased with the same fat, round the 
frost-hitten parts In two or three days they will fee| 
no pain, and in five or six days will he quite cured* 

r 1 



58 GAR 

Note — If the inner bark of the elder, or the leaves 
of plantain, are first simmered in said fat it will be the 
better. 

Successful treatment of Frozen Limbs in Russia. — By 
Mr. Eaton. 

THIS remedy was warm goose grease, and was not 
applied^ as Mr. Eaton says, in the cases to which he 
was an eye witness, until the second day after frozen ; 
the frost bitten parts had by that time become quite 
black and mortiified ; they were well smeared with that 
ointment, and the operation often repeated. The di- 
rections were never to permit the parts to be dry, but 
always covered with the grease. The consequence 
was, that by degrees the circulation extended lower 
down, the blackness decreased till the toes were mere- 
ly discoloured, and at length circulation was restored 
to them. This is the general practice of the P.ussian 
peasants ; but, if a part is discovered to be frozen be- 
fore the person comes into a warm room, the frost 
may be extracted by only plunging the part in cold 
water, or rubbing it with snow till the circulation re- 
turns. 



GARLICK SIRUP AND OXYMEL, FOR OLD AND ASTHMATIC 
COUGHS. 

FOR the sirup, macerate one pound of sliced garlic 
in a close vessel, containing two pounds of boiling wa- 
ter, for twelve hours, and add four pounds of double 
refined sugar to the strained liquor. This sirup may 
be taken to advantage, by a teaspoonful or two at a 
time, whenever the cough is troublesome, and it is par- 
ticularly calculated to be used on such occasions dur- 
ing the night. Garlic is not only a powerful expecto- 
rant, but a^ood diu etic, and even a sudorific, provided 
the patient be kept tolerably warm. For these pur* 



G E E— G L A— G LU 53 

poses, however, the oxymel of garlic is still better than 
the sirup. It is thus easily prepared : Boil a quarter 
of an ounce each of carraway and sweet fennel seeds 
in a glazed earthern vessel, with about half a pint of 
vinegar; when they have boiled a short time, add an 
ounce and a half of garlic cut in slices, cover the whole 
closely up, and let it stand till cold ; then express the 
liquor, and mix it with half a pound of clarified honey, 
placing it in a boiling water-bath to dissolve. This 
medicine, it is said, if persisted in, will not only relieve, 
but absolutely cure an obstinate asthmatic cough. 



OBESE. 

IT is said that geese may be advantageously fed on 
turnips, cut in small pieces, similar to dice, but not so 
large, and put into a trough of water. 



GLASS. 

Seasoning Glass. 

PLACE the glass in a vessel of cold water, and heat 
the water gradually till it boils. Glasses of every des- 
cription, thus prepared, will afterwards bear boiling 
water poured into them without injury. 



GLUTEN. 

GLUTEN may be obtained from wheat flour by the 
following process: the flour is to be made into a paste 
which is to be cautiously washed, by kneading it under 
a small stream of "/ater, till the water has carried from 
it all the starch ; what remains is gluten. Gluten is 
found in a great number of plants; Proust discovered 
it in acorns, ehesnuts, applea and quinces; bar- 



61) G O U— G K A 

ley, rye, oats, peas and beans ; likewise in the leaves of 
rice, cabbages, cresses, hemlock, borage, saffron, in the 
berries of the elder, and in the grape, 



GOUT. 

APPLY a leek poultice to the part affected. The 
steam of hot water is said likewise to cure the com? 
plaint by removing obstructions. 

Another. 

TAKE nitre, rhubarb, sulphur, and guiaccum, of 
each half an ounce, mix the whole in a pound of trea- 
cle, and take a teaspoonful going to bed. 

Gout in the Stomach. 

THIS admirable remedy of the celebrated Br. Hart- 
ley for that dangerous malady, the gout in the stomach, 
which often proves so fatal, is thus simply prepared s 
take cordial confection, and aromatic spices, each one 
dram and a half, sirup of ginger, six drams, orange-peel 
water, two ounces, and simple cinnamon water, six 
ounces. 

Make a mixture, of which take three table spoonsful 
occasionally. 



GRAVEL. 

A Remedy for the Gravel, extracted from an English 
periodical publication. 

DISSOLVE three drachms of prepared Nitre in a 
quart of cold water, and take half of this quantity in the 
course of the day. Continue this simple medicine for 



(5RE Gl 

a few days, and that painful complaint (the gravel) 
will be removed. It may be taken at am time of the 
day — but it is best after a meal This simple remedy 
can do no injury ; and it is certainly worth trying by 
those afflicted with the painful disease for which it is 
recommended. 

i Another, 

BOIL 36 raw coffee berries for one hour in a quart 
of soft spring or rain water — then bruise the berries, 
and boil them again another hour in the same water ; 
add thereto a quarter of a teaspoonful of the dulcified 
spirit of nitre, and take daily a half pint cup of it any 
hour that is most convenient. 

Another. 

Recipe for the Gravel. 

TAKE a double handful of water-melon seeds, and 
throw them into about a half a pint of gin : let them 
stand for a week in a warm place, being frequently 
shaken together. When so prepared take half a wine 
glass full two or three times a day, or as often as yotf 
require any thing to drink, at table or otherwise. 



GREASE SPOTS. 
% 

To remove Grease Spots. 

APPLY powder of white tobacco pipe clay, or 
French chalk, (that is steatite or soap stone) put 
blotting paper over it, and apply a hot iron at a little 
distance — This will take out much of the grease hy 
repetition. Good ether or hot oil of turpentine will 
take out the remainder. Where you can venture to 
wash the place, a good washing with hot soap and wa- 



62 G R I— G U N 

ter will answer every purpose. You may thus efface 
grease spots from paper, should any ligrht stain remain 
at the edges, brush it with a camel's hair pencil, dipt 
in very strong spirits of wine, or ether. 

Spots of tallow, wax, grease, &c. it is said may be 
removed from woollen cloth by laying to the surface 
a piece of blotting paper, and pressing it with a flat 
iron moderately heated. 



gripes in Horses er Cattle. 

ON perceiving the first symptoms of the gripes in 
a horse, ox, cow, &c. fold a large sack, or coarse sheet 
or cloth and let it remain some time in boiling water, 
then, conveying the vessel to the stable, clap the hot 
sack or cloth on the animal's loins, covering it over 
with a warm blanket The animal must be kept in a 
close place, free from any admission of cold air. The 
pain is usually removed in less than eight minutes, and 
the cure is certain where the animal stools soon after 
the application. 



gun barrels, to give a beautiful brown Colour to. 

SCOUR all the spots of rust carefully from your gun 
barrel and polish it bright; then take a piece of roll 
brimstone and lay it on some burning coals, hold tUe 
barrel over the smoke of the brimstone for some mi- 
nutes, carefully turning it that it may have access to 
all parts of it. After which put it into a cellar, or some 
damp place, where let it remain about twelve hours ; 
on taking it out it will be found to be covered with a 
fine efflorescence, which wipe off carefully with a fine 
woollen cloth. If any part of the barrel has not taken 
the colour polish the spot anew and pursue the same 
process as befoie j when you find the barrel complete- 



H JE M— H A M— H A N— H A R 63 

?y covered, rub it over with oil and polish it with a 
bard brush, or a piece of soft pine wood. 



HAEMORRHAGE. 

TT is said that the most violent Maemorhages may be 
stopped by the volatile flour of aikaii. 



HAMS. 

Receipt for curing Hams. 

FOR twenty-four hams, take six pounds of fine salt, 
three pounds of coarse brown sugar, or two pounds of 
molasses, and one pound of salt-petre pounded tine ; 
mix all thfisr- together, and rub every ham with the 
mixture and pack them down in your cask let them re- 
remain five or six days, then unpack them, and let 
those which were on the top, be put at the bottom of 
the cask, and sprinkle a little salt over them; so l^t 
them remain for five or six days, and then make a 
pickle that will bear an egg, and pour over rill it 
covers them; so let the whole remain for one month, 
and they will be tit to smoke. For twelve hams, use 
half the above ingredients. 

hands numbed or trembling, 

W\SH the hands so affected, in a strong decoction 
of wormvj^jod aud mustard seed, to be strained and used 
when cold. 

harrowing grain in the spring. 

WE have not room now, for an essay, if the subject 
required it, but we must recommend the Farmer to 



€4 H E A 

pass the harrow over his fields of small grain. We are 
confident that it must have a fine effect, in giving it an 
early start, and enabling it to outgrow inost of its ene- 
mies — The reasoning is plain and obvious — It acts 
tike a fresh ploughing of maize, just before a good rain 
• — the surface of the ground is softened about the stalk, 
gives it room to expand, and numerous bugs and in- 
sects, are routed, covered over and destroyed. 

At all events it is easy to make the trial. 

Let a few breadths be harrowed, the same way the 
grain was plowed in — numerous plants will be torn up, 
and the operation will, apparently, menace universal 
destruction; but it will be found, that what remains 
will spread and thrive much better and more than make 
up for the little destroyed. 

Perhaps, for this operation, the common old wooden 
tooth harrow, with blunt teeth, would answer as well 
if not better than any other— and it is well if it can be 
made to answer any purpose well. At all events this 
harrowing is strenuously recommended by some of the 
best Pennsylvania farmers, therefore, we repeat, make 
the trial on a small scale and you will know in another 
year.—- Ameriean Farmer. 



HEART BURN 

MAY be cured or relieved by Alkaline medicines 
such as pearlash dissolved in water : Soda, Magnesia, 
Chalk, Castile Soap. Or eat two or three meats of 
peach stones of any kind of peach, and it will effect at 
cure immediately. Those which are dry are prefera- 
ble. 



HES— HOR &6 



HESSIAN FLY. 



IMMERSE the seed wheat ten or fifteen seconds in 
boiling hot water; cool it suddenly ; dry it with lime 
or gypsum sprinkled upon it, and sow it immediately. 
This process will assist the growth, in addition to its 
killing the nits of the fly, which by a good glass are 
said to be discernable near the sprouts of the grain that 
are infected. 



HORSES. 

How to shoe Horses* 

LET nothing be cut from the sol«, binder or frog, 
except the loose rotten scale No opening of heels 
on any occasion — it infallibly causes in time the dis- 
ease called hoof bound — No shoes to be fitted on red 
hot. l-hoes always to be made of the best hard and 
well wrought iron, with not a convex, but a flat and 
even surface next the ground, so that the horse may 
stand in a natural and easy position. No caulks for 
either heel or toe of fore or hind feet. The web of 
the shoe not so wide as usual, nor so thick nor strong at 
the heel, and never to project beyond it, in order that 
the foot may stand perfectly level, and the frog be not 
prevented from touching the ground. It is as absurd 
to pare down the frog as is usuallv done, as it would be 
to pare away the thick skin, which nature has plac- 
ed over the human heel ! \\\ the horses in England 
are now shod according to the above directions. 

For different diseases in Horses. — Hide Bound. 

TO cure this, it will be necessary to put your horse 
on aprstty liberal diet ; also every day a mash of bran 



m HYD 

or boiled rye should be given him ; and twice a week 
give him half an ounce of brimstone in his bran. 

Scratches. 

CUT the hair off close, and wash the legs with 
strong soap-suds or urine ; put on a turnip poultice a 
few days, mixed with hog's fat and linseed oil ; it will 
8O0U effect the cure. 

Hoof Bound, 

TAKE a phlegm lancet, and open the hoof at the 
edge of the hair, to give it liberty of spreading. Then 
grease it daily with woodchuck, skunk or dog's grease, 
that it may grow* 

Scouring. 

GIVE your horse two quarts of the liquor, wherein 
garden rhubarb, flax seed and mallows, have been 
boiled ; or boil white-oak bark, and white-pine togeth- 
er ; give him one quart of this morning and evening 
till well. 



HYDROPHOBIA. 

TAKE the plant called Scull Cap, gathered either 
before dog days begin or after they are over (that ia 
before the 30th of July, and after the 10th of Septem- 
ber,) and cure it in the shade. Cut it fine, and bottle 
it up close. Of this powder make a decoction as strong 
as common tea, and give it to an adult, half a pint night 
and morning, fasting ; to a child of three years old one 
gill ; to a child of eight years, one and an half gill ; to 
a child of twelve years, two gills. The patient in 
every third day during the period of taking the decoc- 



IND 67 

tion, must miss taking it, and instead of it must take 
two teaspoons full of roll brimstone with molasses in 
sufficient quantity to procure a free passage. Contin- 
ue this course for forty days. The patient must ab-* 
stain from butter or milk, or any thing of a greasy na- 
ture in his diet, and wholly from spirituous liquors. 
It is important also that he should not wet his feet. 

N. Y. Evening Post, 



INDIAN CORN. 

E. BRACKET of Salem county, N. J. raised upon 
one acre of ground one hundred and ten bushels of In- 
dian Corn. The method of cultivation, which he pur- 
sused was as follows : 

1st. Ploughing and ameliorating the soil as usual. 

2d. By furrowing at the distance of seven feet each 
way. 

3d. By filling, (or nearly so) those furrows with ma- 
nure. 

4th. Covering up said manure by two furrows on 
either side. 

5th. Planting the seed corn in those two latter fur- 
rows, at the distance of 10 inches per grain asunder. 

6th. Ploughing, &c. said corn all one way. 

N. B. The space between the rows for the tillage 
of the same was five feet, from which the weeds, &c. 
were kept cleansed. 

By the foregoing method the ground is fitted for a 
succeeding crop of winter grain ; the usual mode of 



£8 I N F—I N K 

stirring" about the manure exposes a great proportion 
thereof to the sun's beams by which means the life of 
the substance becomes rarified, and it looses much of 
its virtue. 

Preparation of Indian Com for planting, 

DISSOLVE one ounce of ?alt petre in two and an 
Jialf pints of warm water ; soak the seed 12 hours. It 
will come up earlier, be sooner ripe, and the birds will 
not destroy it. It is thought, however, by some farm- 
ers that when seed is planted early, or the ground is 
wet, soaking the seed is injurious by weakening the 
germinating principle. 



influenza, coughs, or colds. Cure for. 

A PINT of boiling water j one ounce of rock can- 
dy; half an ounce of Gum Arabic; when cold add one 
ounce of Paragoric ; half an ounce of Antimonial Wine. 
Take half a wineglass of this mixture, on going to bed 
and whenever the cough is troublesome half that quan- 
tity. For children a table spoonful on going to bed, 
and when the cough is troublesome a tea spoonful, 

INK. 

Indelible Ink. Take nitrate of silver 2 drachms, 
rain water 2 ounces, Tincture of galls 30 drops — the 
linen should be first wet with a solution of Pearl ash 
in water and suffered to dry previous to writing on it. 

Another kind. 

THE purple precipitate of Cassius is recommended 
in the Italian journals as an indelible ink, much superi- 
or to that of silver. That part of the linnen on which 
is to be the writing is to be moistened with a solution 



INK— INS 69 

of recently made muriate of tin, and when dry to be writ- 
ten on with solution of gold, and then washed with 
water. The writing, which will become black is not 
at all affected by washing, and with great difficulty by 
other agents, and not before the cloth is destroyed. 

A good writing ink. 

TAKE four ounces of Nutgalls well pulverized, two 
ounces of Copperas and two ounces of Gum Arabic 
and one quart rain water ; mix and shake them well 
and often. 



INK POWDER. 

TAKE six ounces of gall nuts and as much Gum Ar- 
abic and Copperas. Let them be well pulverized and 
kept from the air. Put them into three pints of rain 
water, and one pint of vinegar Shake the ingredients 
well and keep them warm, and in about seven days 
your ink will be fit for use. 



insects that infest Apple Trees. 

TAKE a quantity of unslacked lime, mix it with as 
soft water as you can procure, to the consistency of a 
very thick whitewash ; ?pply this mixture, with a soft 
paintbrush to the apple-trees, as ^oon as it is judged 
that the sap begins to rise, and wash the stem and large 
boughs with it, taking care to have it done in dry wea- 
ther, that it may adhere and withstand rain. In the 
course of the ensuing summer this will be found to 
have removed the moss and insects, and given to the 
bark a fre^h <*reen appearance, and the tree wiij also 
be perceived to shoot much new and strong wood ; at 
least, it did so in Nova Scotia. "The trial is simple, 
and can neither be attended with much expense, trou- 
g2 



70 JRO— JAU 

ble or danger." It is obvious that this whitewashing 
of trees, for it is nothing more, though particularly re- 
commended for appietrees, might be usefnl to trees of 
other kinds. 



iron stoves. Cracks in, how mended. 

WHEN a crack is discovered in a stove, through 
which the fire or smoke penetrates, the aperture may- 
be completely closed in a moment with a composition 
consisting of wood ashes and common salt, made up 
into a paste with a little water, and plastered over the 
crack. The good effect is equally certain, whether 
the stove, &c. be cold or hot. 



itch, cure for. See Ointment. 



jaundice. Cure for. 

T4KE half a pint of cinders from the back of a 
chimney, and pulverize them; add to this an equal 
quantity of the bark of a young white pine tree — put 
them together in two quarts of water, and boil them 
down to one quart, then strain it and let it settle. 
Take a wine glass full of it three mornings in succes- 
sion, then omit three mornings, then take it three 
mornings, and so continue till you have taken nine 
glasses, which generally effects a cure. 

Another. 

TAKE the white of an e?g, and two glasses of 
spring water, beat well together, and drink it every 
morning till the cure is effected. 



J AU 71 

Another* 

TAKE a large handful of the bark of black alder, 
cut small ; boil in a quart of hard cider and drink free- 
ly when cold. The bark of the common wild black 
cherry tree, pulverised, and infused in cider, or spir- 
its, is said to be efficacious in removing this disorder. 

Another. 

BLOOD root powdered and given in doses of 15 or 
20 grains. 

Another. 

[From the New- York Medical Repository.] 

TAKE salt of tartar one ounce, of castile soap, gum 
arabic each half an ounce, of spirits or brandy one pint. 
The ingredients should be frequently stirred with a 
stick, and shook well together, and after standing four 
or five days the medicine will be fit for use. The dose 
is two thirds of a wine glass, mixed with one third of 
a wine glass of water, every morning for three days in 
succession, when it may be left off for two or three mor- 
nings, and taken again in the same way, if necessary, 
until the disease begins to disappear. Where the case 
is bad, it should be taken every morning until relief is 
procured. 

Saponaceous draught for the Yellow Jaundice.. 

TAKE from two to four scruples of Castile or Ven- 
ice soap, according to the age and state of the patient, 
and the disease, boil it in six ounces of milk till reduc- 
ed to four j then add three drams of sugar, and strain 
it for a draught. This quantity is to be taken every 
morning and afternoon for four or five days, and is es- 
teemed a most prevailing medicine against the jaun- 



72 LAM— LEA 

dice. The celebrated French physician Barbette, re- 
lates his having cured with a similar saponaceous 
draught, a young woman of the most dreadful epilep- 
tic fits, with which she had been afflicted nearly a year. 
After once purging her, he gave her twice a day half 
a dram of Venice soap, boiled in six ounces of milk till 
reduced to three, for each dose; which, in about thir- 
ty days completely cured her. 



LAMBS. 

WHEN lambs are not owned by their dams feed 
them as follows: Boil 1-4 of a pound of tormentil 1 in a 
gallon of water a quarter of an hour, and "train it: add 
1-4 with the cows miik. which reduces the milk to a 
proper thinness, and remedies the purging quality of 
the milk. 

lambs — Shearing of. 

THE largest lambs should be sheared at the time of 
the new moon, in July. Their fleeces will yield as 
much the next year, and the wool will be better, and 
as cold storms rarely happen at that time of the year, 
lambs will do better without their fleeces than with 
them. 



LEATHER. 

How to make Leather Water Proof. 

TAKE one pint of linseed oil, six ounces of bees 
wax, eight ounces mutton suet; melt the whole togeth- 
er slowly, rub the composition well upon boots and 
shoes sole leather as well as upper leather Care 
must be taken not to use the composition^ too warm. 



Another. 

TAKE one pint of drying oil, two ounces of bees 
wax, two ounces of spirits of turpentine, one ounce of 
Burgundy pitch, melt and mix them carefully over a 
slow fire. Those to whom the smell of turpentine 
may be disagreeable may add a few drams of some cheap 
essential oil, as of lavender, thyme and the like. With 
this composition new boots and shoes are rubbed ei- 
ther in the sun or at some distance from the fire, with 
a sponge or soft brush. The operation to be repeated 
as often as they become dry, until they become fully- 
saturated. The shoes and boots, thus prepaied, ought 
not to be worn until they have become perfectly dry 
and elastic, as in the contrary case the leather will be 
too soft, and wear out sooner than the common kind, 
without this preparation. 

German Method <sf Blackening Leather. 

TAKE two pounds of the bark of elder, and the aame 
quantity of the filings of iron rust ; steep them in two 
gallons of river water and put them in a cask or earth- 
en vessel closely stopped. After it has stood two 
months, put to the liquid, when well pressed out, one 
pound of powdered nut galls, and' a quarter of a pound 
ofcoppe-as; then, after stirring it over a good fire, 
press out the liquid, with which the leather must be 
three or four times brushed over, when it becomes of 
an excellent and most durable black. 



lice on Apple Trees. 

THE lice which infest Apple and other trees issue 
from their abodes, and appear on the body of the tree 
as hard vegetable barnacles, and ascend to the limbs 
early in June, when they may be easily destroyed by a 
swab with hot water. This will destroy them more 



74 L I P— L O C— L U N 

effectually than scraping the trees. They are almost 
invisible to the naked eye ; but discoverable by myri- 
ads by a magnifying glass. 

Lice on Cattle. 

COLLECT a quantity of dry dirt and put it in a box 
or tub in the barn; and occasionally sift or strew some 
of the dirt over the body of each creature. It is said 
upon good authority, that if cattle are ever so much 
infested with lice, this process, a few times repeated, 
will remove them. 



LIP SALVE. 

TAKE a quarter of a pound of hard marrow from 
the bone, melt it over a slow fire, as it gradually dis- 
solves pour the liquid into an earthern pipkin ; then 
add to it an ounce of spermaceti, twenty raisins of the 
sun stoned, and a small portion of alkanet root, suffi- 
cient to give it a bright vermillion colour. Simmer 
these over a slow fire tor ten minutes ; then strain the 
whole through muslin, and while hot stir into it a tea- 
spoonful of the balsam of Peru. Pour it out into 
small boxes, and as soon as it stiffens it will be fit for 
use. 



flLOCK-JAW. 

BRANDY and Opium mixed have been successfully 
administered in the Lock Jaw. 



lungs, weakness of. 

WEAKNESS of the lungs may be remedied by a free 
use of Kaskarilla, and tincture of myrrh. A decoctioa 



-M A N 75 

of Ka«karilla may be made by steeping half a pound of 
it in two or three quarts of water. A wine glass full 
of it may be taken two or three times a day; About 
two tea spoonsful of the tincture of myrrh may be ta- 
k on daily in a teacup of water, or the decoction of the 
Kaskarilla. 



mangoes, how made. 

CUT a square piece out of the sides of the melons 
or cucumbers and take out the seeds with a teaspoon. 
Put the fruit into very strong salt and water for a 
week, stirring them well two or three times a day* 
Then place them in a pan, on a quantity of vine (or 
cabbage) leaves, and cover them over with as many 
more ; beat fine a little roche alum, put it into the salt 
and water out of which the melons have been taken, 
pour it over them, and set them on a slow fire for four 
or five hours, or till they get of a good green. Take 
them out, and drain them in a hair sieve ; and when 
cold, fill into them horse-radish, mustard seed, garlic 
and pepper corns. If the fruit be cucumbers, put 
a few slices of cucumbers in the centre of this mix- 
ed stuffing. Sew on with a thread the pieces taken 
out, and to every gallon of vinegar for covering and 
preserving them add an ounce each of mace and cloves ; 
two ounces each of alspice, sliced ginger root, and 
long an 1 black pepper; two ounces of garlic ; a large 
stick of horseradish ; and three ounces of mustard seed 
tied up in a bag. Boil this well together for a few 
minutes only and pouring it on the pickles, close up 
the jar air-tight. The confinement of the mustard 
seed is a very good naetiiod to adopt on other occa- 
siojis. 



76 1HAN 



MANURE. 

IT has been well remarked that "manure is the 
great sinew of agriculture, as money is of war, and the 
making the best of every advantage or opportunity for 
increasing the quantity of it, is one of the most prominent 
traits in the character of a good fanner " The follow- 
ing extracts from that very valuable work by Sir Hum- 
phrey Davy, entitled "Elements of Agricultural Che- 
mistry" highly deserve the attention of every farmer* 

As different manures contain different proportions of 
the elements necessary for vegetation, so they require 
a different treatment to enable them to produce their 
full effects in agriculture. 

All green succulent plants contain saccharine or mu- 
cilaginous matter, with woody fibre, and readily fer- 
ment. They cannot therefore, if intended for manure, 
be used too soon after their death. 

When green crops are to be employed for enriching 
a soil, they should be ploughed in, if possible, when 
in flower, or at the time the flower is beginning to 
appear : for it is at this period that they contain the 
largest quantity of easily soluble matter, and that their 
leaves are most active in forming nutritive matter. 
Green crops, pond weeds, the paring of hedges or 
ditches, or any kind of fresh vegetable matter, re* 
quire no preparation to fit them for manure. The de- 
composition slowly proceeds beneath the soil ; the 
soluble matters are gradually dissolved, and the slight 
fermentation that goes on checked by the want ofa free 
communication of air, tends to render the woody fibre 
soluble without occasioning the rapid dissipation of 
elastic matters. 



-MAN 77 

When old pastures are broken up and made arable, 
not only has the soil been enriched by the death and 
slow decay of the plants which have left soluble mat- 
ters in the soil , but the leaves and roots of the gras- 
ses living at the time and occupying so large a part of 
the surface, afford saccharine, mucilaginous, and 
extractive matters, which become immediately the 
food of the crop, and the gradual decomposition af- 
fords a supply for successive years. 

Dry Straw of wheat, oats, barley, beans, and peas, 
and spoiled hay, or any similar kind of dry vegetable 
matter, is in all cases, useful manure. In general such 
substances are made to ferment before they are em- 
ployed, though it may be doubted whether the prac- 
tice should indiscriminately be adopted. 

When straw is made to ferment it becomes a more 
manageable manure ; but there is likewise^ on the 
whole, a great loss of nutritive matter. More man- 
ure is supplied for a single crop; but the land is less 
improved than it would be, supposing the whole of the 
vegetable matter could be finely divided and mixed 
with the soil. 

It is usual to carry straw that can be employed for 
no other purpose, to the dunghill, to ferment and de- 
compose ; but it is worth experiment, whether it may 
not be more economically applied when chopped small 
by a proper machine and kept dry till it is ploughed in 
for the use of a crop. In this case, though it would 
decompose much more slowly and produce less effect 
at first, yet its influence would be much more lasting. 

" Wood-ashes imperfectly formed, that is wood ashes 
containing much charcoal, are said to have been used 
with success as a manure. A part of their effects may 
be owing to the slow and gradual consumption of the 
charcoal, which seems capable under other circum- 
H 



T8 MAN 

stances than those of actual combustion, of absorbing 
oxygene so as to become carbonic acid. 

Manures from animal substances in general require 
no chemical preparations to fit them for the soil. The 
great object of the farmer is to blend them with earthy 
constituents in a proper state of division and to pre- 
vent their too rapid decomposition. 

The entire parts of the muscles of land animals are 
not commonly used as a manure though there are ma- 
ny cases in which such an application might be easily 
made. Horses, dogs, sheep, deer and other quadru- 
peds that have died accidentally, or of disease, after 
their skins are separated* are often suffered to remain 
exposed to the air or immersed in water, till they are 
destroyed by birds or beasts of prey, or entirely de- 
composed ; and in this case most of their original mat- 
ter is lost on the land on which they lie, and a consid- 
erable portion of it employed in giving off noxious 
gasses to the atmosphere. 

By covering dead animals with five or six times their 
bulk of soil, mixed with one part of lime, and suffering 
them to remain for a few months, their decomposition 
would impregnate the soil with soluble matters so as to 
Tender it an excellent manure ; and by mixing a little 
fresh quick lime with it at the time of its removal, the 
disagreeable effluvia would be in a great measure ^de- 
stroyed ; and it might be applied in the same way as 
any other manure to crops. 

Fish forms powerful manure in whatever state it is 
applied : but it cannot be ploughed in too fresh, though 
the quantity be limited. Mr. Young records an expe- 
riment in which herrings spread over a field and 
ploughed in for wheat, produced so rank a crop, that it 
was entirely laid before harvest. 



MAP 79 

It is easy to explain the operations as a manure. 
The skin is principally gelatine ; which from its slight 
state of cohesion is readily soluble in water, fat or oil; 
is always found in fishes, either under the skin, or ia 
some of the viscera; and their fibrous matter contains 
ill the essential elements of vegetable substances. 



maple stjgar — how made. 

SCALD your buckets for catching sap before tap- 
ping the trees. 

The sap should be kept clean from dirt through the 
process of boiling. 

Avoid leaving your sap long in an iron kettle, as the 
rust will give it a dark colour. 

When nearly boiled down to sirup (or thin molasses) 
a little lime thrown into the kettle will be of use. 

At this stage of boiling as well as in sugaring off, 
care should be taken tO avoid heating the top of the 
kettle too hot, or any other way burning, as it 
will injure the colour, as well as the flavour of the 
sugar. 

When the syrup is boiled do- >va turn it while hot, in- 
to a clean wooden vessel, let it stand two or three days 
and settle : then turn it carefully from the dirt at the 
bottom and strain it. * 

Hang it over a gentle fire, and when it is warm, stir 
in one pint of milk to four or five gallons syrup, which 
will rise as it begins to boil, ?nd roust be taken off with 
a skimmer, 



80 M E A . 

If you wish to make your sugar very nice, cool it 
until one half or two thirds will grain, turn 'it hot into 
a tight cask ; let it stand undisturbed in a cellar, or 

other cool place until it is grained at the bottom 

Turn off the molasses and turn the cask bottom up- 
wards over some vessel to catch what will dram out : 
let it stand as long as any will drop, then set your cask 
upright, and what moisture remains will settle to 
the bottom, leaving the top dry and of a superiour 
quality. 

If you wish to make dry sugar without draining, 
there are various modes of ascertaining when it is 
boiled sufficiently ; perhaps as sure a method is to drop 
8ome on snow and let it cool, if it is brittle as rosin it 
is done. 



mead or metheglin, how made. 

FOR every gallon of wine or metheglin to be made, 
take one pound and a half of honey, half an ounce of 
tartar or Bologna argol, and three fourths of a pound 
of fruit. If for white wine, white argol should be used 
with white currants, and if for red wine, red argol, 
with red currants or raspberries. Prepare the honey, 
by mixing it with as much water as will, when added 
to the juice of the fruit, allowing for diminution by boil- 
ing, &c. make the proposed quantity of wine. This 
being well boiled and clarified, infuse it in a moderate 
quantity of rosemary leaves, lavender, andsweetbriar; 
and when they have remained two days, strain it to the 
expressed juice of the fruit, put in the dissolved argol, 
stir the whole well together, and leave it to ferment. 
In two or three days put it in a seasoned barrel, keep 
filling it up as the liquor flows over, and on its ceasing 
to work sink in it a bag of Seville orange and lemon 
p< ei, with cinnamon, cloves and nutmegs, and closely 
bung up the cask. If kept for six months or more, in. 



ME A 81 



the cask, Jfhd at least nine in the bottles, it will be tru- 
ly excellent. In a similar way may be made all fruit 
wines, by thus substituting honey for sugar, 



MEASLES IN SWINE. 



ABOUT once a week, mix two spoonsful of madder 
in their food, which prevents obstructions, acting as a 
diuretic, and at the same time an astringent. And, on 
some other day in the week, give a spoonful or two of 
an equal quantity of flour of sulphur, and saltpetre, well 
pounded and mixed. 



MEAT 

M4Ybe preserved fresh many months, by keeping 
it immersed in molasses. A joint of meat, or any pro- 
vision, suspended in a flannel bag will keep sweet much 
longer than by mo^tofthe modes commonly practised. 
The cooler and dryer the meat is, when the flannel is 
put round it the better, and the flannel should be per- 
fectly clean. 

Another way to preserve Meat. 

, PUT fresh meat in a close vessel, containing vinegar, 
which will preserve it a considerable time. Tainted 
meat may be rendered good, by pickling it in pearl ash 
water, for some time. Before it is cooked, however, 
it should be dipped in vinegar, a short time, aad theo 
salted in brine. 

To cure Putrid Meat. 

PUT the meat intended for making soup into a sauce- 
pan full of water ; skim it when it boils ; then throw 
into the sauce pan a burning coal, very compact and 

h2 



.S3 M E A 

destitute of smoke ; leave it there for two minutes, and 
it will have contracted all the smell of the meat and 
the soup. If you wish to roast a piece of meat on the 
spit, you must put it into the water till it boils, and af- 
ter having skimmed it, throw a burning coal into the 
water, boiled as before — at the end of two minutes, 
take out the meat, and having wiped it well in order to 
dry it, put it on the spit. 

Another. 

WHEN meat has become tainted, after having been 
pickled, or salted down, the following process, it is saiu 
will cure it : Take a sufficient quantity of charcoal, 
and after taking out the meat, and throwing away the 
offensive pickle repack it in the barrel, lay pieces of 
charcoal between the pieces of meat, and making a 
new pickle, and adding a little salt petre. In about 
five or six days the meat will become as sweet as it was 
when first packed. 

On keeping meat, 

THERE are two points to be considered with re- 
spect to meat. The longer it is kept without salt, the 
tenderer it becomes. If it receive salt in this state it 
will become correspondingly tender, and the smaller 
the quantity of salt,used in its preservation, the looser, 
sweeter and more palatable will be the meat. 

Beef. Let it lie in a cool place, without freezing, 
about a week ; use eight ounces pulverized salt petre, 
and six quarts of fine salt to a barrel — put water to 
these in a convenient vessel; roll the pieces of beef 
separately in this; pack them in the cask lightly; and 
in two or three days fill it up with water* You need 
not be alarmed if it become a little slippery in the 
spring, provided it is not tainted. The plate pieces of 



M E A 83 

a fat beef are about as good as tongue, and keep as well 
as pork. 

Ham. Fof the same reason, hams impiove by lay- 
ing a week or eight days, if the season admitsof it 
without freezing For an average for one ham use 
one ounce of salt petre; or if large two ounces; pul- 
verise it, and with fine salt and water, wet the hams 
and lay them into a barrel. Prepare immediately a 
weak pickle, to the taste as salt as the ham is wanted, 
and after two days cover the ham with it. In two 
weeks broil a slice, if necessary, add a little fine salt; 
which is better than freshening it, if too salt. In three 
or four weeks smoke it. Six or eight pieces may be 
smoaked in a week in a common oven- Lay them on 
sticks of wood ; place some walnut or maple chips 
within the lid ; raise this a little and put some coals to 
them. The smoke thus produced is much better than 
the smoke of a common chimney. 

Russian method of salting meat. 

BOIL over a gentle fire six pounds of common salt, 
two pounds of powdered loaf sugar, three ounces of 
saltpetre, and three gallons of spring water. Carefully 
scum it, while boiling; and when quite cold, pour it 
over the meat, every part of which must be covered 
with the brine. In this pickle, it is said, the meat will 
pot only keep for many months, but the hardest and 
toughest beef will thus be rendered as mellow and 
tender as the flesh of a young fowl ; while either beef, 
pork, or even mutton, will have a fino flavonr imparted 
by it. In warm weather, however. th*> blood mu«t be 
expressed from the meat, and the whole wpII rubbed 
over with fine salt, before it is immersed in the liquor. 
Young pork should not be left longer than three or 
four days in this pickle, as it will then hp quite suffi- 
ciently softened ; but hams, intended for drying, ruay 
remain a fortnight before they are hung up ; when 



84 ME A— MOL 

they should be rubbed with pollard, and closely cover' 
with paper bags to prevent their being flyblown. 



MEAT CAKES. 

AFTER separating the fat and sinews from the flesh 
of a leg of mutton, beat it well, in a marble mortar, 
with pepper, salt, and onion or garlic juice, or sweet 
herbs, according to your taste. Make the meat, thus 
prepared, into flat rakes, and keep them closely 
pressed between two dishes for twelve hours, then fry 
them with butter, in which they are to be served up. 



MOLES. 

THE Hon. Jacob Rush of Philadelphia, from some 
experiments made is of opinion, that dried cod fish, cut 
into small pieces and put into the earth, will drive 
away moles from gardens. Take a small round stick 
of about an inch in diameter, sharpened at the point, 
and perforate the ground in the roads of the moles ; 
drop in a small piece of fish, and cover the hole with a 
lump of dirt and your garden will be rid of these mis- 
chievous animals. 



moths, how to preserve Furs and Woollens from, 

SPRINKLE the furs or woollen stuffs, as well as the 
drawers or boxes in which they are k*pt, with spirits 
of turpentine ; the unpleasant scent of which v\iJI 
speedily evaporate, on exposure of the stuffs to the air. 
Some persons place sheets of paper, moistened with 
spirits of turpentine, over, un^er, or between pieces of 
cloth, Sec. and find it a very effectual method. 



MUR— MUS 8S 



MURRAIN. 

CLEANLY stables, dry sweet 3traw for litter, often 
changed, sweet clear water, the rack staves and trough 
annointed with tar sulphur and assafoetHa mixed ; a 
free use of salt slightly mixed with sulphur. Should 
one of the cattle be infected, remove him from the 
rest. Fumigate the stable with vinegar poured on 
hot stones, and rub the noses of the sound with the 
above mixture, and in case of death bury the animal 
deep with the hide on. 



murrain, remedy for. 

MIX a pint and a half of wine which has stood sev- 
eral days exposed to the air, with two ounces of hens' 
dung ; give it to the beast every evening for four times, 
or more if needful. 

This is a plain simple remedy, but it possesses great 
powers. These ingredients abound in a volatile salt, 
which will have great effects in this disorder as is abun- 
dantly proved by experiment. 



muslw or linnem, a composition for washing. 

TAKE of water, or water saturated with lime, about 
twelve parts, in which, assisted by heat when necessa- 
ry, infuse from two to six parts of what is usually called 
sub-carbonate of potash, or sub-carbonate of soda, or 
both, according to the purposes for which the said 
composition is intended. To this alkaline liquor when 
hot, in the copper or otherwise, add from four to sev- 
en or more parts of common soap, sliced or macerated, 
or in any form b st calculated to incorporate it with the 
mass, and afford a compound of the consistence of 



86 MUS 

cream or butter, or even of tallow or of ordinary soap. 
When the whole composition is sufficiently incorpora- 
ted, if in a hot state, stir it in the copper till it becomes 
cool, or transfer it to another vessel and do the same. 
The composition will be stronger or weaker in propor- 
tion to the purity of the sub-carbonate of potash, or of 
soda made use of, or of both, when both are employed 
together ; it will be therefore necessary to be particu- 
larly attentive to this circumstance. It will be also bet- 
ter to strain off the sediment of the lime water and al- 
kali, or alkalies when mixed. 



MUSQUETOES. 

TO prevent the bite of musquetoes, rub the oil of 
pennyroyal, a little weakened on the hands and face. 



mustard, how mixed. 

BOIL a sufficient quantity of horse radish in the best 
white wine vinegar, add to it half as much mountain 
or good raisin wine, and a little double refined sugar ; 
then make it up to a proper consistency with the best 
unadulterated Durham flour of mustard, stop it up 
close, and it will keep for years. Mustard thus made 
ba* an inconceivably fine spirit and flavour. Common 
keeping mustard may be made by only substituting wa- 
ter for the vinegar, with or without garlic, and a little 
salt. The flour of mustard should be gradually mix- 
ed with the boiling water or vinegar, to a proper thick- 
ness, and rubbed perfectly smooth. 

Another wayfo^ immediate use* 

MIX the mustard with new milk by degrees, to be 
quite smooth, and add a little raw cream. It is much 
softer this way if not better, and will keep well. — A 



NAI— NET 87 

tea spoonfull of sugar to half a pint of mustard is a 
great improvement, and foftens it. 



NAIL. 

How to extract poison from a rusty Nail. ' 

TAKE a bean, after splitting it apply one half (flat 
side) to the wound, bind it on, let it remain till it comes 
off itself, and the poison will be extracted and the 
wound healed. 

nettle, medical virtues of. 

THE common stinging nettle, apparently a9 useless 
and troublesome a plant as any that has been stigmatiz- 
ed with the name of weed, is one of the most effica- 
cious medicines we have in the vegetable kingdom : in 
the form of a strong decoction or infusion taken in the 
quantity of a pound a day, it is a most valuable strength- 
ener of general or partial relaxation In that of a 
weak decoction or infusion, it proves an admirable 
alterative, and deotetruent in impurities of the blood, 
and in obstructions of the vessels. And in that of ex- 
pressed juices, taken by spoonfuls as the exigency of 
the case requires — it is the most powerful styptic in 
internal bleedings known. Externally applied as a 
fermentation or poultice, it amazingly discusses inflam- 
mation, resolves swellings. In the common sore 
throat, thus applied and, internally as a gargle depen- 
dence may safely be put on this common plant. 

English Magazine, 



OIL 



oil essential, how obtained from Flowers. 

TAKE a clean earthera pipkin or deep dish, in 
which place a layer of cotton previously steeped in 
some inodorous oil, as pure Florence oil, or the oil of 
the benny seed when freshraud tasteless. On this place 
a layer of the fresh gathered leaves of the rose, tube- 
rose, sweet pink, jasmine or other odoriferous flower 
or plant ; over this layer place another of cotton which 
has been steeped in oil as before directed, and thus 
continue till you have filled the vessel with alternate 
layers of leaves and cotton,, or you have the desired 
quantity, when cover it up closely, and let it stand tor 
four or five days, when the oil will be found to have 
fully imbibed the odour of the leaves ; then take them 
out, express the oil carefully from the cotton, and bot- 
tle it up for use. 



oil or tallow, how extracted from papers, £c. 

HAVING got ready some common blotting paper, 
gently warm the spotted part of the book or paper 
damaged by the grease, and, as it melts, take up as 
much as possible, by repeated applications of fresh bits 
of the blotting paper. When no more can be thus im- 
bibed, dip a small brush in the essential oil of well rec- 
tified spirits of turpentine, heated almost to a boiling 
state, and wet, with it both sides of the paper, which 
should also be at the same time a little warm. This 
operation must be repeated till all the grease is extrac- 
ted ; when another brush, dipped in highly rectified 
spirits of wine, being passed over the same part, the 
spot or spots will entirely disappear, and the paper re- 
assume its original whiteness, without the least de- 
triment to the paper or the printing or writing' 
thereop. 



OIL— OIN s§ 



oil OF balsam of gilead, how obtained. 

THIS excel!- nt family oil, which should be kept in 
every house, is made in the following simple manner. 
Put loosely into a bottle of any size, as many balm of 
gilead flowers as will reach to about one third part of 
its height, then nearly fill up the bottle with good 
sweet oil, and after shaking it a little occasionally, and 
letting it infuse a day or two, it is fit for use. It must 
be very closely stopped, and will then not only keep 
for years, but be the better for keeping. When it is 
about half used, the bottle may again be filled up with 
oil, and well shaken ; and, in two or three days, it will 
be as good as at first. The most alarming cuts and 
bruises of the skin which are so frequently rendered 
worse by spirituous balsams, salves, &c. are completely 
cured in a few days, and sometimes in a few hours, by 
this incomparable oil. 



OINTMENT FOR THE ITCH. 

SULPHUR two ounces, crude sal ammoniac two 
drachms, hogs' lard or butter four ounces, essence of 
lemon half an ounce. 

Another. 

FRESH butter one pound, red precipitate of mer- 
cury one ounce, burgundy pitch two ounces, spirits of 
turpentine two ounces. 



OINTMENT FOR EXCORIATIONS. 

MUTTON tallow half a pound, lard half a pound* 
bees wax one ounce, red lead one ounce. 



90 OPO— PAN 



opodeldoc, how made. 

TAKE one quart spirits of wine, half b pound white 
soap, two ounces gum camphor, 1-4 of an ounce oil 
Origanum ; cut the soap fine, and put altogether into a 
tin canister, or some safe vessel, and dissolve the whole 
on a moderate fire, stirring it often with a pine stick. 
When nearly cool, and before it coagulates, put it into 
proper vials. This is an excellent application for 
v ruises, sprains, &c. in man or beast. 



pancakes, of Rice, how made. 

PUT three spoonsfull of the flour of rice, with * 
grated nutmeg, into a pint of milk and a pint of cream, 
and let them boil till they become as thick as pap ; 
stirring in, while boiling, half a pound of butter^ 
Then pour it into an earthen pan, and when cold put 
in three or four spoonsfull more of rice flour, a little 
salt some sugar, and nine eggs well beaten. Mix all 
together and fry them, with a very little butter, in a 
small pan, These are a very delicate pancake. 



pancakes, of a pink colour, how made. 

PANCAKES of a beautiful pink colour are easily 
made by the following simple process. Boil, till ten- 
der, a large blood beet-root, bruise it in a, marble mor- 
tar, put to it the yolks of four eggs, two spoonsfull of 
ilour, three of cream, half a grated nutmeg, sugar to 
palate, and a glass of brandy. Mix them well together, 
fry them carefully, and serve theSl up with a garnish 
$f green sweetmeats, 



P A P— P LA 91 

paper, how made water proof. 

IMMERSE any kind of paper in a strong solution of 
alum water — thoroughly dry it, immerse and dry it 
again. 

paper hanging, easy method of cleaning, 

CUT into eight half quarters a quartern loaf of two 
days old, it must be neither newer nor staler. After 
having with a pair of bellows blowed all the dust from 
the paper, begin with one of these pieces at the top of 
the room, holding the crust in the hand, and wiping 
lightly downward with the crumb, about a yard at each 
stroke till the upper part is completely cleaned all 
round. Then go around again with the like sweeping 
stroke downward, always commencing each successive 
course a little higher than the upper stroke had ex- 
tended, till the bottom be finished. This operation, 
if carefully performed, will frequent!}' make very old 
paper look almost equal to new. Great caution must 
be used not by any means to rub the paper hard, nor 
to attempt cleaning it cross way or horizontally. The 
dirty part of the bread too, must be each time cut 
away, and the pieces renewed as soon as at all neces- 
sary. 



PLASTER OF PARI9. 

ONE hundred weight of plaster of Paris is a small 
quantity for an acre. It should be sown in a moderate 
rain, and when the air is calm. There is no doubt of 
its being useful in almost any soil, but on that of a light 
and loamy kind its good effects are more readily seen. 
The plaster should be ground as fine as flour. Indeed 
it is impossible to make it too fi»e. 



•» 



92 , PEA 

It is recommended in order to ascertain the quality 
of plaster to place a quantity pulverised in a kettle, 
over a fire, and when it is heated it emits a sulphurous 
smell. If the ebullition be consideiable it is good. If 
sm.aU, indifferent. If it remain an inert mass it is worth- 
less. 



PEASE SPLIT. 

PEASE may be split or hulled by being run through 
a common grist mill with but a small stream of water 
to turn the mill stones so that they may move slow. 
The upper stone should be hoisted as high as possible 
without letting the peas* thro' whole. The advantages 
of splitting pease are that they will cook better, are pre- 
served from bugs and other insects and they will fetch 
tjtfuble price in market. The refuse peas and dust will 
answer for hogs. They may be cleaned by a fan 
or winnowing mill. 



peas. Russian method of preserving green for winter, 

PUT into a kettle of boiling hot water any quantity 
of fresji shelled green peas ; and after just letting 
them boil up, pour them into a colander. When the 
liquor has drained off, pour them into a large thick 
cloth, cover them with another, make them quite dry, 
and set them once or twice in a cool oven, to harden a 
little ; after which, put them into paper bags, and hang 
them up in the kitchen for use To prepare them, 
when wanted, they are to be first soaked well for an 
hour or more, and then put into warm water and boil- 
ed with a few sprigs of mint otherwise a little butter. 



PIC #3 



pickle, Pococke's. 

TAKE four gallons of good water, one pound and a 
quarter of Muscovado sugar, two ounces of salt petre, 
and ten pounds of salt. Put the whole into a clean pot, 
and let it boil, taking off the scum carefully as it rises ; 
when no more rises take it off the fire and let it stand 
till cold. Then having put the meat you wish to keep, 
into the vessel you wish to keep it in, pour the liquor 
over the meat till quite covered, in which condition it 
must be kept. Beef preserved in this manner has been, 
as sweet after lying in the pickle ten weeks as if only 
three days salted and as tender as a chicken. 

If you intend to preserve your meat a considerable 
time, you must once in two months boil the pickle 
again, simmering it as before, putting in tw© ounces of 
sugar, and two pounds of salt. This same pickle will 
be good twelve months. 

This pickle is incomparable to cure hams, tongues, 
or beef which you intend to dry, after drying,them to 
put them in paper bags, and then hang them in a dry 
place. 

Unless in cold weather rub the meat with fine white 
salt, and let it lie in all the night before you put it into 
the pickle. 



pickle, Hambro. 

TAKE six pounds of salt, eight ounces brown sugar, 
six ounces salt petre : dissolve by boiling in four 
gallons of water. When perfectly cold apply it to 
an^ kind of fresh meat, which should be completely 
covered with the pickle. 
i2 



* 



M PIC— PI L— PI M 



sickling, receipt for. 

AFTER cleansing your cask, put first a layer of 
white oak leaves, and then a layer of cucumbers, or 
whatever your pickles consist of and so on to fill 
your cask ; intersperse between each layer dill seed, 
mustard seed, horse-raddish, &c and to every twenty 
cucumbers one bell of pepper. Form a composition 
of clear salt and water, not hardly sufficiently strong 
to bear an egg, to every gallon add one quart of good 
vinegar, scald and skim this pickle, and after cool to a 
degree of blood warmth, add it to your cask, and cover 
it tight. 

If rightly performed, this method will preserve 
pickles the year round, and forms a very agreeable 

sauce. 



piles, cure f on 

TAKE a lump of strong British alum about two 

inches in length, which smooth down with a knife to 

the thickness of three quarters of an inch — apply this 

morning and evening, first wetting it with water. In 

\ve to seven days the cure will be complete. 



jpimpled face, cure for. 

TAKE an ounce each of liver of sulphur, roche 
alum and common salt, and two drams each of sugar 
candy and spermaceti; pound and sift these articles, 
then put the whole into a quart bottle, and add half a 
pint of brandy, three ounces of white lily water, and the 
same quantity of pure spring water ; shake it well 
together, and keep it for use. With this liquid the 
face must ]be freely and frequently bathed ; being" 



PLA— PLU— POI 95 

always attentive first to shake the bottle ; and, on going 
to bed lay all over the face a linen cloth which has 
been dipped in it. In ten or twelve days, at farthest, 
it is said, that it will effect a complete core. One 
thing is certain, that nothing in this composition can 
prove injurious. 



plate silver, to give a lustre to. 

DISSOLVE a quantity of alum in water, so as to make 
a pretty strong brine, which you must skim very 
carefully ; add some soap to it, and when you wish to 
use it, dip a piece of linen rag in it and rub over your 
pieces of plate. This process will add much to its 
lusture. 



plums, peaches, &c. how kept fresh through the year. 

BEAT well up together equal quantities of honey 
and spring water ; pour it into an earthen vessel, put 
in the fruits all freshly gathered and cover them quite 
close. , When any of the fruit is taken out, wash it in 
cold water, and it is fit for immediate use. 



POISONS. 

THE following useful directions in cases of poison 
are given by Dr. John Stone of Birmingham, Eng- 
land. 

1st. When the preparations of arsenic, mercury, or 
any metal, or when any unknown sustance or matter 
has been swallowed, and there have sppedilv ensu< d 
heat of the mouth and throat, violent pain of the sto- 
mach, itching and vomiting — immediately drink a plon- 
ty of warm water, with common soap scraped or die- 



06 POI 

solved in it. Two or three quarts of warm water, with 
from three or four ounces of soap to half a pound will 
not be any too much. 

2d. When any of the preparations of opium, hen 
bane, night shade, hemlock, tobacco, fox glove, or 
stramonium, or any poisonous fungus mistaken for 
mushrooms or spirituous liquors in excess, or any other 
-unknown matters have been swallowed, exciting sick? 
ness without pain of the stomach, or producing giddi- 
ness, drowsiness or sleep — give instantly one table 
spoonful of flour of mustard in water, and repeat it in 
copious draughts of warm water, constantly until vom- 
iting takes place If the person becomes ?o insensible 
as not to be easily roused give the mustard in vinegar 
instead of water, and rub and shake the body actively 
and incessantly. 

3d. When spirits of salt, or aqua fortis have been 
swallowed or spilt on the skin immediately drink or 
wash the part with large quantities of water, and as 
soon as they can be procured, add soap, or potash or 
chalk to the water. 

Another practitioner observes that when mineral 
poisons, technically called oxides, whether of copper 
or arsenic are taken internally, one table spoonful of 
powdered charcoal is a complete antidote, mixed with 
either honey butter or treacle, taken immediately :— 
Within two hours administer either an emetic or cathar- 
tic : in this way the effect of the poison is prevented. 

For the poison of insects take vinegar and sweet oil 
of each one part, strong spirit three parts, mixed i ap- 
ply it very frequently. 



P O L— P O M— P O T 97 



poll evil, in Horses. 

AT first this disorder requires no other method of 
cure than what is common to other boils, and inflamed 
tumours. But sometimes it degenerates to a sinuous 
ulcer, through ill management or neglect. 

There is a small sinus under the poll bone, where 
the matter is apt to lodge, unless care be taken to keep 
the part firm with a bandage : But instead of that the 
farriers generally use to thrust in a long teat, which 
raises the flesh and opens a way into the sinus. And 
thus an ulcer is created where there needs he none- 
All therefore that is further necessary on this head is, 
to caution the piactitioner against such ill methods. 
And if the tumour has a very large cavity, it is better 
to lay it open, than to thrust foreign substances into it 
And if it acquires an ulcerous disposition it must be 
treated as such. (*ibson' > s Farriery. 



POMATUM. 

TAKE the marrow of any animals' bones, and hay- 
ing strained it, perfume it with sweet scented oil, Rus- 
sian or Antique, and it is fit for use ; and it is said to 
have the power of quickening the growth of the hair, 
perhaps by communicating a softness to the skin j and 
opening the pores about the roots of the hair. 



POTATOES. 

IT is said that late potatoes, or such as are not ripe 
make the best seed, and that planting such restores a 
degenerated variet} r . 



98 POT 

How to obtain new varieties of Potatoes. 

TAKE the apples of potatoes, or potatoe balls, in the 
beginning of October, before the frost has hurt them. 
Hang them up by the foot stalks in a dry closet, where 
they will not freeze. Let them hang till March or 
April. Then mash the apples, wash the seeds from 
the pulp, and dry them in a sunny window. Sow the 
seeds in a bed about the first of May. When the plants 
are four or five inches high, transplant them into 
ground well prepared, one or two plants in a hill. — 
They will produce full grown apples and some of the 
roots will be as large as hens' eggs. English farmers 
hold it to be absolutely necessary to renew their po- 
tatoes from the top seed once in fourteen or fifteen 
years. 

To raise Early Potatoes. 

TAKE potatoes whole, and cover them with horse 
litter of a moderate warmth ; let them remain till they 
put forth shoots of four or five inches in length, which 
they will do in two or three weeks. Then take them 
carefully from the litter, and plant them with the 
shoots standing upright, so deep in the earth that the 
su.oots may be ju?<t seen peeping out of the ground. — 
They should be thus set in a dry soil, with more horse 
dung By such means, it is said that potatoes may be 
obtained at least four weeks earlier than by the com- 
mon method. 

A good method of Planting Potatoes. 

PLOUGH a deep furrow, place a quantity of cut 
straw, old hay, decayed leaves, or the. mould of rotten 
leaves, or other vegetable substances, and lay the 
seed potatoes on it, and cover as asykl. The potatoes 
will be of the best quality, which are thus produced. 
Large potatoes, which are planted whole, will produce 



POT 39 

better than if they were cut before planting. Pick off 
the blows and balls. 

Harvesting Potatoes. 

POTATOES may be spoiled by bad management in 
harvesting". They should be dug in cool overcast wea- 
ther, and picked immediately after the hoe free from 
sun and air, and kept moist with much dirt about them. 
If dug in fine weather, and they remain exposed to the 
sun, they will sweat in the summer, and be soft waxy, 
and strong. By lying to dry in the sun they generate 
poison, operate as physic, and sometimes prove fatal. 

Feeding stock with Potatoes. 

IT is best to steam, boil, or bake potatoes for feed- 
ing stock. Sir John Sinclair asserts that "there is 
something injurious in the juices of the potatoe, in a 
raw state, which cooking eradicates or greatly dispels. ^ 

It is said that an excellent fodder for horned cattle 
may be collected from potatoe tops. It is practiced in 
many places in the southern states to reap about two 
thirds the length of the potatoe tops and dry them on 
mowing land in the usual way of haymaking. Several 
tons may be collected from an acre, and no damage 
to the potatoes, if taken as soon as they are ripe, and 
before the leaf begins to fall. 



3P0TATOE PUDDING. 

No 1. ONE pound boiled potatoes, half a pound* of 
sugar, four ounces of butter, one pint of flour, one 
quart of milk and five eggs. 

No. 2. ONE pound boiled potatoes, mashed, four 
ounoes of butter, one quart of milk, the juice of om 



100 POT— POU— PRU 

lemon, and the peal grated, half a pound of sugar, half 
a nutmeg, seven eggs, two spoonsfull of rose water. 
Bake one and an half hour. 



POTATOE STARCH. 

WASH and pare potatoes, grate them upon large tin 
graters, and fill tubs about half full with the pulp : 
Then fill them up with water : Stir it well once a day 
three or four days, and take off all the scum. About 
the fifth day take out the pulp, and put it into shallow- 
earthen pans, such as are used for milk, as much as will 
cover the bottom an inch thick, and put water upon it. 
Every morning pour off the water, break up the starch 
and add fresh water. When it has thus become very 
white, leave it in the pans till it is quite dry, then put 
it into paper bags, and put it into a dry place to keep. 
# 

POULTRY. 

THE reason why hens do not lay in winter is the 
want of lime to form the shell. Let them have access 
to wheat which contains lime, or to lime itself, and 
they will lay as well in the winter as any other time. 
Pounded bones will answer the same purpose with 
lime. 

Corn given to fowls should be crushed or soaked in 
water. This helps digestion, and hens will lay in the 
winter that are thus fed that would not otherwise. 



PRUNING FRUIT TREES. 

THE best time for pruning fruit trees is when the 
tree possesses the greatest quantity of sap, which is 
about the middle of J uae. If a limb of any considers 



PUD iOi 

ble size is cut several inches from the body in March, 
the stump will become dry and crack open nearly to 
the body, and before the new growth can heal over the 
wound, the stump will rot, and this defection will soon 
penetrate to the heart of the tree, and cause it to 
perish. 



pudding, good and cheap. 

TAKE a quart of milk, four eggs, and two large 
spoonsfull of flour, with a little salt and grated ginger; 
beat them up into a good smooth batter, and put it into 
a buttered baking dish. When it comes out of the 
oven, pour over it some melted biftter and serveit up. 

Baked Beef or Mutton Potatoe Picdding. 

THIS economical article is thus made : Boil a suffi- 
cient quantity of well pared mealv potatoes, till they 
are so thoroughly done as to be ready to crumble in 
pieces ; drain them well in a colander or sieve ; pick 
out every speck, or hardness, and mash them as fine 
as possible; make them up into a thickish batter, with 
an egg or two, and some milk, and placing of steaks or 
chops, well seasoned with salt and pepper, at the bot- 
tom of a baking dish, cover them with a layer of the 
batter ; and so alternately, till the dish is filled ; taking 
care to have the batter at the top. The dish should 
first be well buttered, to prevent sticking or burning, 
and in that case, the bottom as well as top, may con- 
sist of potatoe butter. This pudding, when properly 
baked will be of a fine brown colour. 

pudding, Orange. 

GRATE the rind of two Seville oranges, and beat 
it in a marble mortar, with half a pound of good fresh 
butter, the same quantity of loaf sugar, and the yoikc 



102 PUM— RAD— RAT 

of sixteen eggs, till the whole mass become of a like 
colour. Then pour it into a baking dish lined with 
puff or paste. 



PUMPKIN SEEDS 

AFFORD an oil with the greatest facility and abun- 
dance. One gallon of seeds it is said will yield about 
half a gallon of oiL They may be pressed like rape 
seed or flax seed The oil is clear, limpid, pale, 
scentless, and when used for sallad instead of sweet oil 
has merely a faint insipid taste : it burns well and with- 
out smoke. 



RADISHES. 

TO have a constant succession of radishes for the 
table, the seeds should be sown once a fortnight trom 
April to August. As they are uncertain in their 
growth, the best method is to put the seeds between 
rows of other plants ; and they are so easily pulled 
that they need not incommode the plants among, which 
they grow. 



RATS. 

TAKE one quart of oat meal, four drops of oil rho- 
dium, one grain of musk, two nuts of nux vomica pow- 
dered ; mix the whole together, and place it where 
the rats frequent ; continue to do so while they eat it, 
and it will soon destroy them. 

Another method of destroying Rats, 

TAKE equal quantities of unslacked lime* and pow- 
dered oat meal j mix them by stirring, without adding 



RAT— REN 103 

any liquid, and place a small quantity in any place in- 
fested by rats. They will eagerly swallow the pre- 
paration, become thirsty, and the water taken will 
swell the lime and destroy them. 



rattle snake, cure for the bite of 

TAKE of the roots of plantane or hoarhound, (in 
summer, roots and branches together) bruise them in 
a mortar, and squeeze out t 1 e juice, of which give as 
soon as possible one large spoonful ; if the patient is 
Swelled you must force it down his throat, this will 
generally cure ; but if he finds relief in an hour you 
may give another spoonful, which it is said will never 
fail. If the roots are dried they must be moistened 
with a little water. To the wound^sjay be applied a 
leaf of good tobacco, moistened with a little rum. 



RENNET Of RUNNET. 

WHEN* the rennet is to be preserved for use the 
calf should be killed soon after he has sucked j for 
then the curd is entire and undigested. 

Dairy women usually preserve the maw and the 
curd contained in it, alter salting them ; and then by 
steeping this bag and curd, make a rennet to turn 
their milk for making cheese. But a method which 
seems to be more simple and equally good in every re- 
spect, is, to throw away the curd, and after steeping it 
in very strong pickle, stretch out the maw upon a 
slender bow inserted into it, which will soon be very 
dry, and keep well for a long time. Take an inch or 
two of the maw, thus dried, and steep it over night in 
a few spoonfulls of warm water; which water serves 
full as well as if the curd had been preserved, for 



1 34 REN 

turning the milk. It is said that one inch will serve 
for the milk of five cows. 

In the Bath papers, Mr. Hazard gives the following 
receipt for making rennet : "when the raw skin is well 
prepared and fit for the purpose, three pints of soft 
water, clean and sweet, should be mixed with salt, 
wherein should be put sweet brier, rose leaves and 
flowers, cinnamon, mace, cloves, and almost every 
sort of spice ; and if these are put into two quarts of 
water, they must boil gently, till the liquor is reduced 
to three pints, and care should be taken that this li- 
quor is not smoked. It should be strained clear from 
the spices, &c. and when found to be not warmer than 
milk from the cow, it should be poured upon the caul 
or maw ; a lemon may be sliced into it, when it may 
remain a day or two - r after which it should be 
strained again, and put into a bottle, where if well 
.corked it will keep good for twelve months. It 
will smell like a perfume ; and a small quantity of it 
will turn the milk, and give the cheese a pleasing fla- 
vour. He adds, "If the maw be salted and dried for a 
week or two near the fire, it will do for the purpose 
again a'most as well as before." Another receipt is as 
follows; after the maw has been well cleaned and 
salted, and dried upon sticks or splints, take boiled 
water two quarts, made into a brine that will bear an 
egg. Let it be blood warm, put in the maw either 
cut or whole ; let it steep twenty four hours, and it 
will be fit for use. About a tea cup full will turn the 
milk of ten cows. It should t>e kept in glass bottles, 
well corked. 

Whatever kind of rennet the dairy woman chooses 
to prepare she should keep it in mind, that this animal 
acid is extremely apt to turn rancid and putrify, and 
take care to apply a sufficient quantity of salt to 
preserve it in its best state. It should be as much salted 



RHE 105 

as possible, and the strongest kind of salt should be 
used. 



RHEUMATISM. 

LIGHT infusions of ginger alone taken twice or 
thrice a day, have been found very efficacious by the 
French surgeons in Rheumatic affections. The pains 
are rendered at first excruciating ; follows copious per- 
speration, and in two or three days the symptoms 
gradually disappear and the patient is cured, or at least 
released for a period. 

Another remedy for Rheumatism. 

TAKE half a pint of spirits of turpentine, half a pint 
of linseed oil, half a pint of strong vinegar, half a pint 
of fine salt, mix these ingredients well together, and 
rub the part affected with a piece of red flannel, 
warmed and steeped in them, as hard and as long as 
the patient can bear it, or till you find considerable ir- 
ritation produced on the surface of the skin. This 
operation may be repeated three days successively, 
provided a cure is not sooner effected. 

Another. 

ONE ounce of camphorated soap ; one drachm of 
tincture of cantharides one drachm of liquid ammonia 
caustic; three drachms of oil of Thyme. Put a little in 
the palm of your hand, and rub the part affected well 
three or four times a day. 

Another. 

£ 
TAKE one ounce of gum camphor ; one quart o 
spirits ; add as much of the bark of the root of sassa- 
»2 



J06 RIC— RIN 

fras, as the spirits will cover; steep ten or twelve 
hours ; take half a wine glass full at bed time, early in 
the morning-, and at eleven o'clock. At the same time 
rub the part affected, with this compound ; the dos« 
may be increased if necessary ; the effect is a violent 
perspiration. Kxposure to take cold must be avoided. 



RICE JELLY. 

THIS is one of the best and most nourishing prepa- 
rations of rice, particularly for valetudinarians or con- 
valescents It is thus made : Boil a quarter of a pound 
of rice flour, with half a pound of loaf sugar, in a quart 
of water, till the whole becomes one uniform gelatin- 
ous mass ; then strain off the jelly and let it stand to 
cool. A little of this salubrious food eaten at a time, 
will be found very beneficial to those of a weakly aDd 
infirm constitution. 



ring worm — Cure for. 

FINE starch reduced to powder, and kept constant- 
ly applied on and around the parts affected with the 
ring worm, will soon cure that teasing and infectious 
cuticular distemper. On the head ring worms some- 
times come to running sores, which must once or twice 
a day be washed with soap and water, and dressed 
•with basilicon ointment keeping the rest of the head 
dry, and constantly covered with powdered starch. 
The body must be kept gently open with sulphur and 
create of tartar. 

Another remedy. 

COVER the part with common writing ink. 



ROC— ROL . 10? 



rocks, blasting of. 



LIEUT. Wainhager, a German, has discovered that 
saw dust, particularly of soft wood, mixed with gun 
powder, in equal parts, has thrice the strength of 
powder alone, when used in blowing rocks. 



ROLLERS. 

THE roller is the most useful implement for break- 
ing hard clods expeditiously, and smoothing the sur- 
face of land when in tillage, ever yet invented. It is 
likewise of use to gra-.s lands laid down for hay; and 
heavy rollers would prevent those ant hit is, by which 
so many pastures are deformed, hollers are made of 
various substances; as wood, freestone, granite or cast 
iron; but on the whole the two latter are to be pre- 
ferred. It is of importance, that the weight of the rol- 
ler should be in proportion to the surface on which it 
is to be employed. The best plan , is that of having 
two rollers, each about two feet and an half in length, 
and both pjaced in one frame, so as to roll clear of 
one another. This is the most suitable both for corn 
crops and sown grass, as it neither tears up the tender 
soil, nor injures the young plants. Besides the labour 
in turning is much less severe on the frame and On the 
cattle Every farm ought to be provided with rollers 
of different diameters and weights, so as to suit the sev- 
eral purposes to which they are destined ; those of a 
small diameter are generally applied to land in tillage ; 
and those of a large diameter, with double shafts, to 
grass land. Heavy rollers are of great use, tor des- 
troying worms, slugs and other vermin in the soil. 

An intelligent farmer maintains, that if draining is 
the first, manuring the second, and cultivation the 
third, rolling ought to be considered as the fourth 



108 ROL 

principal operation in the processes of agriculture.— 
Its importance indeed, is every day becoming more 
apparent, and new advantages are derived from its use 
both on arable and on grass lands. 

Wheat should always be rolled in the Spring, after 
frosts, as it makes the soil adhere more closely to the 
roots of the plants, encourages vegetation and strength- 
ens the stems, and renders the grain more perfect- 
When any crop of grain is sown with artificial grasses, 
rolling is particularly necessary; to make an even sur- 
face, bruising all clods, and pressing down any stones 
it may not be thought necessary to carry off, to facili- 
tate the future operation of the scythe. Oats in a 
light soil, may be rolled to advantage, immediately af- 
ter the seed is sown, unless the ground be so wet as to 
cling to the roller After turnips are sown in drills, 
they ought to be immediately rolled, to make the soil 
compact, and to promote their speedy germination — 
Not only for turnips, but for all other crops, rolling, 
particularly during the night, is found to be an effi- 
cient means of destroying ssugs, snails, the wire worm, 
and other vermin, so destructive to young plants Flax 
ought to be rolled immediately after sowing; it makes 
the seed vegetate equally, and prevents aftergrowth; 
the bad effects of which are visible in every step of the 
process for dressing flax. 

The other advantages of rolling arable land are, that 
it renders a loose soil more compact and solid. This 
encourages the growth of plants, by pressing the soil 
to their loots. It likewise keeps in the moisture, and 
prevents drought from penetrating. When the soil is 
worked up lightly, moisture either filters through it 
too quickly, or is easily evaporated. In a dry season 
this may occasion a very material difference in the 
crop more especially in a light soil. Rolling is exe- 
cuted to most advantage across the direction of the 
ridges, because more adapted to ensure full benefit to 



R 0— ROT 109 

the furrows which otherwise may not be properly gone 
over. 

When a large field is to be rolled, a number of 
rollers ought at once to be set at work, otherwise an 
opportunity may be lost never to be regained. 

Codt of Agriculture* 



ROOFS OP HOUSES. 

A material for roofing, cheap and durable is formed 
by dipping sheets of paper, (such as button makers use) 
in boiling tar, and nailing them on boards or laths ex- 
actly in the same manner as slates. Afterwards the 
whole is to be painted with a mixture of pitch and pow- 
dered coal, chalk or brick dust. This forms a texture 
w^ich completely resists every description of weather 
for an unknown length of time. 



ROTATION OF CROPS. 

MR. DEANE recommends the following course of 
crops. On fight warm soils the first year, Indian corn 
well manured, pease or potatoes. The second year, 
rye, barley or buck wheat. The third and fourth years 
clover. The fifth year wheat. The sixth and sev- 
enth clover. On cold and stiff soils, first year oats or 
potatoes. Second year potatoes well manured. Third 
year flax or wheat. Fourth year grass, and so on till 
it needs to be broken up again. 

The following has been recommended by an able 
writer in the Albany Argus. 

Medium course in sandy soils; 1st year, potatoes 
dunged; 2d, rye, with turnips after harvest consumed 
on the field ; 3d, oats and clover, or barley and clover ; 



no ROW 

4th, clover ; 5th, wheat, with turnips after, harvest 
consumed on the field; and 6th, peas or lupins. We 
have by this course eight crops in six years, and five of 
these ameliorating crops. 

Medium course in sandy soils ; 1st year potatoes 
dunged ; 2d year wheat with turnips as in the preced- 
ing course ; 3d year Indian corn and pumpkins ; 4th 
year barley and clover ; 5th year, wheat and turnips 
as before. In this course we have nine crops in six 
years, five of which are ameliorating crops, and 

Medium course in clay soils ; 1st year oats with clo- 
ver ; 2d, ciover ; 3d wheat ; 4th, beans, dunged ; 5th, 
wheat. 



HOWELL IN HORSES 

IS a kind of issue, or artificial wound, made in ihe 
skin of a horse, b> drawing a skein of siik thread or 
hair, through the nape of the neck, or some other 
part, answering to what surgeons call aseton. 

Horses are rowelled for inward strains, especially 
about the shoulders or hips, or for hard swellings that 
are not easily dissolved. The rovvell may be mad? in 
almost any part, and should always be not fap-from the 
diseased part, and about a hand breadth beneath it. — 
The two ends of the rowel should be tied together, 
that it may not" come out, and be smeared with lard or 
fresh butter before it is put in, and drawn backward 
and forwards that the putrid matter may discharge it- 
self. 

What are called rowels by English farriers are made 
as follows : An incision is made through the skin, about 
three eighths of an inch long. Then the skin is sepa- 
vated from the flesh with the finger, or with the end 



RUS ill 

of a blunt horn, as far as the finger will easily reach. 
Into this a piece of leather made very thin and round 
shaped is introduced, about the size of a crown piece, 
having a large hole in the middle of it. Previous to 
introducing the leather, it is covered with lint or tow, 
and dipped in the same digestive ointment. Also a 
pledgit of tow, dipped in the same ointment, is put in 
the same orifice, to keep out the cold air. 

Clark's Farriery. 



RUST, Or MILDEW 271 WHEAT. 

THIS disease is occasioned by a minute parasitic 
lungus or mushroom on the leaves, stems, and glumes 
or chaff of the living plant. The roots of the fungus, 
intercepting the sap, intended by nature for the nutri- 
ment of the grain, render it lean and shrivelled, and in 
some cases rob it completely of its flour; and the straw 
becomes black and rotten, unfit for fodder. 

The same fungus is generated on many other vege- 
table substances besides wheat Those receiving the 
infection at different seasons of the year, form, as it 
were, conductors from one to the other, in which 
fungi germinate effloresce, disseminate and die, dur- 
ing the revolutions of the seasons. The fungus having 
arrived at maturity in the spring on a few shrubs bush- 
es or plants, its seeds are taken up the next humid at- 
mosphere, (hence the erroneous idea that the rust or 
mildew is caused by the fog alone) wafted into the ad- 
joining fields, and the nearest wheat is sure to suffer 
the most from it. In damp weather also, its seed is 
more immediately received into the leaves of trees and 
shrubs, or into their barks and fruits, or the stems of 
plants, through the medium of those valves or mouths, 
with which nature has supplied them, for the admission 
of moisture. 



112 RUS 

Among the causes of rust, besides those above men- 
tioned may be reckoned, I. Having the land in too 
Tich a state for wheat crops. 2. Where too frequent a 
repetition of wheat crops takes place. 

Remedies against Rust. 

1. Cultivating hardy sorts of wheat; 2. Early sow- 
ing; 3. Raising early varieties; 4. Thick sowing; 
5. Changes of seed ; 6. Consolidating the soil after 
sowing; 7. Using saline manures; 8 Improving the 
course of crops ; 9. Extirpating all plants that are re- 
ceptacles of rust; and 10 Protecting the ears and 
roots of wheat by rye, tares and other crops. The 
above remedies are enlarged upon by bir John Sin- 
clair, in '•The Code of Agriculture," but his observa- 
tions are too voluminous to quote in this place. His 
10th remedy, however, is as follows : 

"\ CURIOUS and most important circumstance, 
^connected with the rust in wheat remains to be stated. 
In the northern counties of England, where it is the 
practice to sow what they call meslin, (blend corn) or 
a mixture of rye a«d wheat, it has been there remark- 
ed, that wheat, thus raised is rarely infected by the rust. 
It is singular that the same circumstance has been ob- 
served in Iialy. In an account drawn up by Professor 
Symonds, on the climate of that country, it is recorded 
as a known but extraordinary fact, "that wheat, mixed 
with rye or tares, escapes unhurt" It would appear 
from tares being so useful that the seed of the fungus 
must be taken up by the root, and that if the root be 
protected it is sufficient. This seems to be counte- 
nanced by other circumstances, as that by treading the 
ground, and thick sowing of crops of wheat, the crop 
is less liable to be affected by this disease ; the access 
of the seeds of the fungi to the root being rendered 
more difficult. Mr. Knight is decidedly of opinion that 
the disease is taken up by the root, and indeed if it 



RYE 



US 



were introduced at the ear of the plant, how could 
it descend, and infect solely the stem, which is the case 
unless when the disease is inveterate. 

If a field be evidently affected, and the progress of 
vegetation stopped, the only way to preserve the straw 
and the grain, if any has been formed from being en- 
tirely lost, is to cut it down immediately, even though 
the crop should not be ripe. The straw is thus pre- 
served either for food or litter; and it is maintained, 
that, any nourishment in the stem, will pass into and 
feed the grain, and makes a greater return than could 
well be expected. 

It has been recommended to sprinkle wheat while 
growing, which appears to be in any d jgree affected 
with this disease with a solution of salt and water, 
which may be applied by mean* of a mop. The' 
sprinkling should be several times repeated, so that 
every part ofthe plants may be wetted, and it is said 
that wherever the brme touches the rust disappears. 



RYE. 



IT is said to be a good practice on a rich and heavy 
soil to sow winter rye at the last hoeing of Indian corn 
and hoe it m. The plants of rye in such case being 
mostly on the corn hills, escape injury from frost.-- 
The stubble of rye should be ploughed as soon as pos- 
sible after reapmg so that by being buried early it 
may answer the better purpose for manure. 

Spring Ryt* 

SOW a peck of oats with a bushel of spring Rye, to 
prevent blasting. It is emsily separated by a winnow- 
ing mill 

L 




114 SAL 

Bye Coffee. 

WASH Rye in several waters to free it from dust, 
blighted grain, &c. boil it in water until some of the 
grain cracks open, then drain it, and dry it in an oven, 
then burn it as other coffee. Barley is said by some 
to be superior to rye for making coffee, and is prepared 
in the same manner. 



SALT. 

SALT is highly recommended as a manure by m 
writers on husbandry. It may be applied either by it- 
self, or mixed and dissolved in compost. But if it be 
applied directly to young and tender plants unmixed 
and undissolved it often destroys them. It is said to be 
highly beneficial to flax when spread over the ground 
at the time of sowing the seed, at the rate of about two 
bushels of salt to one of the seed.* A little salt plant- 
ed in the hill with Indian corn we are told will pre- 
serve it from worms. 

When the English farmer intends to turn his land to 
tillage in autumn he sows a double quantity of salt, in 
order to destroy grass, rushes, weeds, fern, worms, 
snails, &c. The whole is, by that means converted 
into a rich manure, which supports three successive 
crops, and leaves the soil, after all in good condition. 
It js said to be an excellent practice to keep salt under 
cover, in such a situation that cattle or sheep may 
have recourse to it at pleasure. Those cattle 
however, which have not been accustomed to so free 
an use of salt should be brought to it by degrees. 

* Some writers say that the quantity should be the same as 
that of the seed. 



SAL— SAN US 



SALT RHEUM. 

TAKE one ounce of salts of tartar, dissolve in twen- 
ty-six spoonsful! of fair water; then take one spoonful 
of pure lime juice, and add a lump of loaf sugar, as large 
as a walnut. Let it dissolve, then add a spoonful of 
tartar liquid, dissolved as above, and give it the pa- 
tient, before eating, twice in twenty-four hours. 

Another Remedy. 

TAKE tar, and (lowers of sulphur, each one part, 
sweet cream, or fresh butter, two parts ; simmer to an 
ointment, and apply it to the part daily, and keep the 
air from it by dressing it with a linen cloth, besmear- 
ed "with the same. This will likewise cure the itch. 



SAND. 

NO manure is so good as sand to loosen and soften a 
clayey soil. A clay soil has more of the food of plants 
in it than any other soil, and wants only to have iu co- 
hesion sufficiently broker; to give a free passage to the 
roots of vegetables. A lajner of two and an half inches 
thick will not be too much for land in tillage if it be a 
stiff clay. The benefit of sanding does not appear so 
much the first year, as in a year or two afterwards. 
For the oftener the land is tilled the more thoroughly 
is the sand mixed with the clay. But sand, laid on clay 
land, in grass will produce a great effect. 

It h a rule, says Sir John Sinclair, in regard to san- 
dy soils, never to pick off any small stones that maybe 
found in them, as they contribute to prevent evapora- 
tion, and to preserve moisture. It is another rule fre- 
quently to renovate the strength of such soils, by lay- 
ing them down with grass seeds, and pasturing them 



116 SAU— SCA 

for a few years, as they are apt to be exhausted by 
aration, if corn crops are too frequently repeated. 



sausages, bologna — how made. 

TAKE four pounds of lean buttock beef, cut it into 
fine pieces, and put into it one pound of dried suet, with 
an equal quantity of dried bacon. Season it with al- 
spice, pepper, bay-salt, and saltpetre, adding thereto 
a little of the powder of bay-leaves. Then, mixing 
the whole well together, tie it up in skins about the 
thickness of the wrist, and dry them in the same man- 
ner as tongues. 



scab in sheep — Ointment for. 

RUB together in a mortar a pound of quicksilver 
and half a pound of Venice turpentine, till the globules 
of the quicksilver disappear, then add half a pint of 
oil of turpentine and lour pounds of hog's lard, and 
mix the whole into an ointment. The method of using 
it is to begin at the head of the sheep, and proceeding 
from between the ears along the back to the end of the 
tail, divide the wool in a furrow till the skin can be 
touched; in the mean time, while the furrow is mak- 
ing, a linger slightly dipped in the ointment is to be 
drawn along the bottom, where it will leave a blue 
stain on the skin and the adjoining wool. From this 
furrow, similar ones must be drawn down the shoul- 
ders and thighs to the legs as far as they are woolly ; 
and if the animal be much infected, two more should 
be drawn along each side parallel to that on the back, 
and one down each side between the fore and hind legs. 
Immediately after being annointed it is customary to 
turn the sheep among the other stock without fear of 
i.he infection being communicated, and we are assured 
by Sir Joseph Banks., that there is scarcely an instance 



§ CI— S CR Ut 

of a sheep's suffering any injury from the application. 
In a few days the blotches dry up, the itching ceases, 
and the animal is completely cured. We should, how- 
ever, recommend, on using this ointment, that the an- 
imal should be housed for a few days from the wea- 
ther should it prove stormy or damp, and not permit- 
ted to get wet, ci caution requisite in all cases where 
mercury is used. 



sciatica — Remedy for. 

THE following remedy has been tried with suc- 
cess in England and much recommended in France — 
Oil of turpentine, two gross ; honey, 4 ounces. Di- 
vide it into three doses, and take one in the morning, 
one at noon, and^ne at night. 

Doubtless this would be much aided by a strong ca- 
thartic, abstinence, and friction externally with oil of 
turpentine. 

Tke gross is two penny weights, six grains troy. 



SCRATCHES. 

SCRATCHES is a disease in horses, sometimes cal- 
led Malanders. It is caused by corrupt blood, over 
hard labour, &c. and appears in chops or cracks on the 
in?ide of the fore legs against the knee, discharging si 
red sharp humour. 

To cure this disease wash the cracks with warm 
soap suds or old urine ; then rub them twice a day with 
an ointment of hog's lard, mixed with two drachms of 
sublimate mercury. Or apply a poultice of the roots 
of marsh mallows and flax seed, softened with linseed 
oil, tying it on with a roiter. Continue that till tlje 

1 2 



118 SOU— SEA— SEE 

seeds fall off and the sores become clean. Afterwards 
a mixture of turpentine and quicksilver will be a good 
application, 

Another Remedy. 

MAKE a strong solution of copperas in water, so that 
the water is completely saturated with it. Apply this 
to the part affected, rubbing it gently with a cob 
each time. A few applications of this kind will, gen- 
erally, cure the complaint entirely. [See likewise 
page 66 ] 



3Cull cap. See Hydrophobia. 



sealing wax, red — how made* 

TO every ounce of shell lac, take an ounce each of 
rosin and vermillion, all reduced to a fine powder; 
melt them over a moderate fire, and when thoroughly 
incorporated and sufficiently cool, form the composition 
into rolls or sticks of any length or thickness and either 
round or flat at your pleasure. On account of the 
dearness of shell lac, seed lac is usually substituted, 
even in what is denominated the best Dutch sealing 
wax. Boiled Venice turpentine may be used with 
good effect, instead of rosin. 



seeds— how preserved. 

IF seeds are intended to be sent a great distance, or 
it is wished to preserve them a long time, they should 
be wrapped in absorbent paper, and surrounded by 
moist brown sugar. 



SHE 119 

Seeds of Indian Corn, how selected. 

FATHER your seed corn from such stalks only as 
produce two ears, and the crop will be more abun- 
dant. 



SHEEP, SCAB IN. 



EVERY part of a sheep's body is liable to be attack- 
ed with this disease, which may be radically cured if 
attended to. It is more obstinate on the lips and nose, 
-than any where else, because the animal rubs those 
parts while eating. The cheapest and simplest rem- 
edy, is an ointment composed of three parts of grease 
to one of turpentine. [See page 116.] 



sheep, Fish, food for. 

IT is a fact, though not generally known, that sheep 
will greedily eat any kind of salted fish, whether dry 
or pickled, although dry seem the most suitable for 
them; and it is found by experience that sheep that 
have as much fish as they can eat are always healthy, 
have good lambs, and do not loose their wool; and re- 
quire much less hay or other food. It is not expected 
that farmers remote from the sea-shore can afford their 
sheep as much fish as they would eat; but, if they ?ive 
them fish instead of giving them salt, they will find a 
great advantage. Smoked Alewives and Herrings are 
most convenient for thern ; larger fish should be cut or 
broken in small pieces. The cheaper kinds offish, such 
as scale of all kinds, broken, refuse, and even those 
that are partty damaged, if they are only salt, will an- 
swer the purpose. 

IT is generally the case with herring catchers that 
they are obliged to cull out and throw away great num- 



120 SHE 

bers, sometimes half they take, because they are to 
bear inspection ; such might be salted and smoked or 
dried in the sun, put up in dry casks, afforded at a low- 
price — by which means, thousands of barrels might be 
saved which are now suffered to rot on the shore??, 



SHEEP TICKS= 

HEAT one gallon of tar, and eight pounds of salted 
butter, melted in another vessel, and mixed gradually 
with the tar; boil it gradually a while, constantly 
stirring it ; then pour it out to cool — part the wool, and 
rub in the ointment, so as to affect the whole skin. 
This should be done in October. Give sheep plenty 
of salt. 

Another remedy. 

SHEEP may be dipped or washed in half hogshead 
tubs, or other suitable vessels, filled with a decoction 
©f White Hellebore, Poke Weed or Skunk Cabbage, 
(the plant has all these and several other names. The 
^sheep, or lamb, may be seized by the legs, and plunged 
into the decoction, with the back downward, taking 
care that none of the decoction enter the mouth, nose 
or ears. On taking the sheep from the tub, squeeze 
the fleece, gently, and suffer it to drip into the vessel. 



cheep, smearing of. 

IMMEDIATELY after the sheep are shorn, soak 
the roots of the wool that remains all over with oil or 
butter, and brimstone, and three or four days after- 
wards wash them with salt and water. The wool of 
the next season will not only be much finer and softer, 
but the quantity will be in greater abundance. 



SHO— SHR 121 



SHOE BLACKING. 



TO one egg, beaten up, add a table spoonful of ivo- 
ry black, or lamp black. See likewise the article 
"leather," in the preceding pages. 



SHRUB, WITH BRANDY OR RtJM, 

PUT a quart of the finest French brandy into a large 
bottle, with the juice of two large lemons, the outer 
rind of one, and about a quarter of a nutmeg; let it 
stand three days closely corked, and then add a pint and 
a half of old mountain wine, and three quarters of a 
pound of loaf sugar; mix them well, and strain the li- 
quor twice through a flannel bag ; then bottle it for 
use. Incomparable rum shrub may be made nearly in 
the same manner, by procuring the best old Jamaica 
rum, and substituting it for the brandy. Both might 
perhaps be improved by* having only half the lemon 
peel, and the like quantity of Seville orange-rind. 



shrub, Currant, 

IN a quart of rum or brandy, put three quarters of 
a pint of the strained juice of red or white currants, 
and the rind of half a Seville orange, with a little 
nutmeg. When it has stood a day or two closely cork- 
ed, add a pint of white wine, with three quarters of a 
pound of loaf sugar, and straining it, as soon as the su- 
gar is dissolved, through a flannel bag, bottle it for use. 
Red currants will be best for the brandy, and white 
ones for the rum Good raisin wine may be used ia-< 
stead of mountain or sherry. 



222 S I C— S I R 



SICK-HEADACHE, Pills for. 



T4KE Castile soap one drachm and a half; rhubarb, 
in powder, forty grains; oil of juniper twenty drops; 
sirup of ginger a sufficient quantity to form the whole 
into twenty pills. The dose is two or three of these 
pills to be taken occasionally. 



SIRUP OF SUGAR. 



DISSOLVE one pound and three quarters of pow- 
dered double refined sugar in a pint of water, by means 
of what is called the water bath, or balneum marias; 
that is, by setting the vessel which contains it in a 
saucepan, kettle, or copper of water, over the fire, 
till the sugar be thoroughly dissolved, and the sirup 
properly formed. This, besides other advantages, 
prevents the danger of the sugar's boiling over, which 
is much to be apprehended in the common mode of 
boiling sirup in large quantities. After it has stood a 
few hours, take off the scum, and pour the sirup into a 
stoae jar or bottle for use. 

sirup, for Coughs, 4»c, 

THIS excellent remedy cannot be made too pub 
lie. — It is thus prepared. Take six ounces of cumfrey 
root, and twelve handsfull of plantain feaves; cut and 
beat them well ; strain out the juice; and, with an 
equal weight of sugar, boil it to a sirup. 

sirup, for the Scurvy and Scorbutic Eruptions. 

TO four beer quarts of good rich sweet wort, add 
half a pound of sassafras, an ounce of sarsaparilla, and 



S I 2 123 

four ounces of dancus seed, commonlv called wild car- 
rot. Boil them gently over the fire for three quarters 
of an hour, frequently putting the ingredients down 
with a ladle, then strain the same through a cloth. 
To each beer quart of this liquor put one pound and 
a half of good thick molasses. Boil the same geutly 
for three quarters of an hour, scumming it all the 
time ; put it into a pan and cover it till cold, then bot- 
tle it for use. Be careful not to cork it too tight. 
The dose recommended is a moderate tea cupful! in 
the morning at rising, and the same quantity on going 
to bed. It was continued by the communicator till he 
had taken nineteen or twenty wine bottles of it; dur- 
ing the period of taking it he abstained from animal 
food, fish, greens, or high seasoned sauces. 



SIZE AND FORM OF STOCK. 

[By Henry Cline, Esq. Surgeon. Com. Board of Agricul- 
ture, 1805.] 

IT is the intention of this communication to ascer» 
tain in what instances crossing the breed of cattle is 
proper, and in what prejudicial ; and the principles 
upon which the propriety of it depends. 

It has been generally understood that the breed of 
animals is improved by crossing with the largest males. 
This opinion has done much mischief, and would have 
done more if it had not been counteracted by the de- 
sire of selecting animals of the best forms and propor- 
tions which are rarety to be met with in those of the 
largest size. Experience has proved that crossing has 
only succeeded in an eminent degree in those instances 
in which the females were larger than in the usual 
proportion of the females to the males ; and <hat it has 
generally failed when the males were disproportionally 
large. 



124 S I Z 

The external form of domestic animals has been 
much studied, and the proportions are well ascertained. 
But the external form is an indication of internal stiuc- 
ture. The principles of improving it must therefore 
be founded on a knowledge of the structure and use of 
the internal parts. 

Of these the lungs are of the first importance. It is 
on their size and soundness that the strength and health 
of an animal principally depends. The power of con- 
verting food into nourishment is in proportion to their 

size Jin animal with large lungs is capable of converting 
a given quantity of food into more nourishment than one 
nith smaller lungs; and therefore ha* a greater aptitude 
to fatten. 

Chest. The size and form of the chest indicate the 
size of the lungs, of which the form should approach 
to the figure of a cone having- the apex situated be- 
tween the shoulders and its base towards the loins : a 
circular form of cnest is preferable to One deep and 
narrow, for though the latter may have greater girth, 
th* 3 former will have greater internal space in propor- 
tion. 

The Pelvis. The Pelvis is the cavity formed by 
the junction of the hip bones with the rump bone. 
This cavity should be large in a female that she may be 
enabled to bring forth her young with less difficulty ; 
when this cavity is small, the life of the mother and 
ber offspring is endangered. 

The size of the pelvis is indicated by the width of 
the hips, and the space between the thighs ; the 
breadth of the loins is always in proportion to that of 
the chest and pelvis. 

Head. The head should be small, by which the 
birth is facilitated to the offspring - t it also indicates the 



3 I Z 125 

animal to be of a good breed, and occasions less 
weight of unprofitable substance to the consumer. 

Horns are useless to domestic animals, and occasion 
a great weight of bone in the head. The skull of a 
ram with horns weighed five times as much as that of 
one without horns, each being four years old. A mode 
of breeding which would prevent the produc- 
tion of horns, would therefore afford a considerable 
saving. 

The length of the neck should be proportioned to 
the height of the animal, that it may collect its food 
with ease. 

Muscles. The muscles a*hd tendons, which are their 
appendages should be large, by which an animal is en- 
abled to travel with greater facility. 

Bonts. The strength of an animal does not depend 
>on the size of the bones, but on that of the muscles ; 
many animals with large bones are weak, their muscles 
beingtyRmall. 

Animals imperfectly nourished during growth have 
their bones disproportionally large. If this originated 
from a constitutional defect, they remain weak during 
life ; large bones may therefore indicate aa imperfec- 
tion in the organs of nutrition. 

Of the improvmnent of Form. 

The chief f>oint to be attended to for the improve- 
ment of form, from Mr. Cline's principles, is the selec- 
tion of males for breed of a proportionally smaller size 
than the females, both being of approved forms; 
the size of the foetus depends on the size of the 
female, and therefore when the female is dispro- 
portionally email, her offspring has all the <Ua- 
M 



126 '3IZ 

proportion of a starveling, from want of due nourish- 
ment. 

The larger female has also a greater supply of milk, 
and her offspring is therefore more abundantly provide 
ed with nourishment after birth. 

When the female is large in proportion to the male* 
the lungs of the offspring will also be greater ; by 
crossing in this manner, there are produced animals 
with remarkably large chests, as has been often notic- 
ed : the advantage of large lungs has been already 
pointed out. 

In animals where activity is required, this practice 
should not be extended so far as in those which are in- 
tended for the food of man. 

The size of animals is commonly adapted to the soil 
which they inhabit ; when the produce is scanty, the 
breed is small : the large sheep of Lincolnshire would 
starve, where the small sheep of Wales find abundant 
food. 

Crossing may be attended with bad effects, even 
when begun on good principles, if the above rule bfc 
not attended to throughout ; for instance, if large ewes 
were brought to Wales, and sent to the rams of the 
country, the offspring would be of improved form ; 
and, if sufficiently fed, of larger size than the native 
animals, but the males oC this bre«d would be 
disproportionately large to the native ewes, and 
therefore would produce a starveling ill formed race 
with them. 

The general mistake in crossing has arisen from an 
attempt to increase the size of a native race of animals; 
being a fruitless effort to counteract the laws of na- 
ture | which, from theory, from, practice, and extea- 



S I Z 127 

r.ive observation, Mr. Cline concludes to be decidedly 
wrong ; for in proportion to this unnatural increase of 
size, they become worse in form, less hardy, and more 
liable to disease. 

Observations by the Editors of the Retrospect of Dis- 
coveries. 

IN this very excellent communication of Mr. Cline's, 
which is fraught with valuable information, there is 
one position which can be only understood in a gen- 
eral sense, namely; that females of the largest size 
give most milk in proportion : small cows are often 
known to give more milk than large; the quantity of 
milk seems to depend on the particular breed, and on 
the supply of food. 

Fatness also does not seem to be inconsistent with 
every disease of the lungs, though no doubt it is with 
most, at least if we may argue from the human race to 
brute animals, as nothing is more common than for fat 
people to be asthmatic. 

The directions for breeding given by Mr. Cline are 
certainly the best calculated to produce fine healthy 
animals, and of course the most wholesome meat; but 
there is some doubt whether this would be agreeable 
to the breeders, as the exuberant fatness, which has 
been so fashionable among them for some years past, 
and which in all probability is inconsistent with the 
health of the animal : a prodigious fatness is justly 
considered as a state of disease in mankind, and there 
is no reason why it should not be so in beasts also: as 
a confirmation of the opinion that the excess of fat does 
not improve the quality of the meat, it is pretty gener- 
ally acknowledged that the average of mutton in the 
London markets affords a much more coarse and unpal- 
atable food than what was in general to be had some 
years back, before the prodigiously fat breeds became 



ISd SLA 

so prevalent. There is great reason to believe that 
the fine flavour of the meat may not solely proceed 
from an adequate age of the animal, but may also de- 
pend on particularity of breed, as much as great fat- 
ness or quality of wool; and if the breeders of sheep 
would attend a little to this circumstance in future* 
they would confer a singular favour on all those who 
eat mutton, who are at least as numerous as the tallow 
chandlers and clothiers, whose interests they have 
hitherto chiefly studied in this matter, next to their 
own. 



SLAUGHTERING OP CATTLE. 

THE practice of slaughtering cattle by puncturing 
the medulla spinalis, or as it is now called pithing yat- 
lle Is exlenuuT* £?£*?*?! **! ")Sf*? ?f !**<§ kingdom (Great 
Britain) by the perseverance of the Board of Agricul- 
ture. The want of skill in the operation, and the pre- 
judices arising from established customs, we are sorry 
to observe, however, render the system less general 
than it should be. It is perfectly ascertained that the 
spinal marrow may be . divided without immediate 
death, should the wound be inflicted below the origin 
of the nerves that supply the diaphragm, and allow the 
animal the power of respiration ; but if the puncture 
is made into the cavity of the skull, so as to divide the 
medullary substance above the origin of these nerves, 
death is instantaneous, and without the least apparent 
sensation of pain. If a line be drawn across the head 
from the root of each ear (about an inch and an half 
from the horns) the centre of this line is the spot in 
which the puncture should be made, an awl or 
a common penknife is as good an instrument as can be 
used. 



SMU— SNO— SNU m 

smut in grain, Remedy for. 
SEE the article "wheat," in the following pages. 



snow — To preserve meat in. 

MEAT that is killed in December, may be kept in 
^perfection if buried in snow until spring-, This is an 
excellent method of preserving fresh and good the car- 
cases of turkies and other fowls. 

Set any open cask in a cold place, put snow and pie^ 
ces of meat alternately : Let not the pieces touch each 
other, nor the sides of the cask. The meat will nei- 
ther freeze, grow dry, nor be discoloured ; but be as 
good in all respects at the last of March as when it 
was first put in. The surfaces of the pieces should be 
a little frozen, before they are put into the snow, that 
the juice of the meat may not dissolve the snow. The 
cask should be placed in the coldest part of the house, 
or in an out house. 



snuff, cephalic — how made. 

TAKE half an ounce each of sage, rosemary, lilliea 
of the valley, and the tops of sweet marjoram, with 
a drachm each of asarabacca root, lavender flowers, and 
nutmeg R#duce the whole to a fine powder, and 
take it like common snuff, as often as may be neces- 
sary for the relief of the head, fee. There are few 
so generally useful and innocent cephalic snuffs as tfc-e 
above. 

m 2 



ISO S N U— S A 



snuff, collins' cephalic— ^br disorders in the Head^ 
strengthening the Nerves^ and restoring the Spirits., 

TAKE Virginia leaf tobacco, dry it well and make 
it into a high flavoured snuff, to this add one twelfth 
part of the finest roseate rappee, and a small quantity 
of the real maccabaw; of betony, eye-bright, marjo- 
ram, ihyme-syriac, flowers of marum-syriac, equal 
quantities, dried and reduced to a fine powder; to these 
add one twentieth part of the leaves of assari, dried 
and powdered, also of cloves dried fully and powdered 
one fiftieth part; the essential oils of cinnamon, nut- 
megs, lavender, and balsam of Peru, of each a small 
quantity j mix these well together with the snuff, and 
put the whole into an earthern pan, pressing it very 
close together. After it has stood four days, add there- 
to eau de luce in the proportion of one ounce to every 
pound of fhe above snuff, together with orange-flower, 
lavender, and rose waters, just sufficient to make the 
whole a little moist. Then put it into bottles for use ; 
of this a pinch may be taken at any time for the com- 
plaints mentioned. 



«oap, Receipt for making* 

FOR one leach tub of ashes, take half a bushel of 
iime — after baving well covered the bottom of the 
leach with straw and sticks, put first a bushel of ashes, 
then two quarts of lime, upon which pour boiling water, 
to slake the lime ; continue to fill the leach in this man 
ner. For each barrel of soap, take twenty-eight 
pounds of clean grease, and three pounds of rosin j 
melt them together with two pails full of the lie first 
drawn from the leach — when it has boiled half an hour, 
pour it into the barrel atid fill it up with lie as fast as 
it can bf drawn, stirring it well as the lie i* added. 



S O A— S O D— 8 O I 131 

If a sufficient number of leach tubs are used, four 
barrels can be made with ease in half a day— and if the 
ashes are good^ with entire success. 



soap, saving of. 

FOR the use of private families, where linen is dir- 
ty by perspiration or grease it will be of great service 
towards rendering it while, to steep it for some time 
in a clear liquor, made by mixing one quart of quick 
lime in ten gallons of water, letting the mixture stand 
24 hours, and then using the clear water, drawn from 
the lima. After the linen is steeped in this liquor it 
should be washed as usual, but it will require much 
less soap to be used. 



€ODA, in masning. 

A FEW ounces of soda will soften a hogshead of the 
hardest water. It is said to be greatly superiour in 
washing to either potash or pearla9h. It gives a deli- 
cate whiteness to the linen without the slightest inju- 
ry, and never, unless excess is used in the least affects 
the hands. To glasses, decanters, table spoons, &c. 
it gives a lustre equal to the highest polish, without 
labour, if washed in water, in which a small quantity 
has been dissolved. 



SOJUNGL 

BY this term is meant, the feeding of stock in a 
house, shed, or fold, with cut green food, instead of 
making the grass into hay or pasturing the fi.*iil. 

Various articles are used for that ;>«rpose, as tares 
and lucerne ; also barley, oats, and beans, all in a greem 



532 SOI 

<staie ; but red clover, either alone, or mixt with rye 
grass, is the substance most commonly applied. 

Soiling 1 is a great savijig of land : for one acre of x;ut 
clover, is equal to two pastured, even of the same 
crop, and in the same field. — It is a great saving of 
food : for when pastured, much of the crop is destroy- 
ed in various ways, as by trampling, dunging upon it, 
&c — It is likewise safer for stock, for when they are 
soiled, they are not so liable to the same accidents, as 
when under the pasturing system — It is also the means 
of obtaining a greater quantity of rich dung, than can 
otherwise be obtained, (for the process can thus be car- 
ried on in summer as well as winter) and it puts clay- 
land farms, in that respect, more nearly on a footing 
with those of a turnip soil. Its other advantages are, 
that the succeeding crop, after cut clover, is uniformly 
better than when it is pastured — that the fences are 
not so liable to injury from the stock maintained nor 
from the carelessness of those who are employed to 
catch them. 

Worlyng horses, or oxen, derive great advantage 
from soiling. They are saved the trouble of collect- 
ing their food, after their work is over; — can fill 
themselves much sooner, and consequently have more 
time for rest ; — and can take their repose much bet- 
ter, in a stable or shed, with plenty of litter, than in 
an open field, where there are so many things to annoy 
them- 

The experiments of soiling cattle have likewise 
been successful. Yftung steers become more tracta- 
ble for work ; nor is there any risk of cattle being ho- 
ven, if their feed is mowed two days in advance, For 
milch cows, in particular, it is highly expedient to soil 
them, at least in the middle of the day, that they may 
not be tormented with flies in the field, nor induced to 
staed in brooks, or ponds of water, nor in the shade of" 



SOO 133 

spreading trees or hedges, by which much valuable 
manure is lost. The stock are thus kept in a healthier 
State, and the milk is of superiour quality. 

Pigs may be soiled on clover, with much advantage, 
and for that purpose, there ought to be a patch of clo- 
ver in the garden of every cottager. But green beans 
are perhaps a still more profitable article, as pigs are 
peculiarly fond of them. The Windsor sort are pre- 
ferred, and the beans should be planted at different 
timeSj to insure a regular succession. Horses also are 
fond of green bsans, after being a little accus- 
tomed to them ; and stall fed cattle thrive well on 
that food. 

There is certainly no mode, by which cultivated 
grasses will pay so well as by soiling. In the neigh- 
bourhood of towns, the same land will produce at the 
rate of from 20 to 25/. per statute acre, cut for soiling, 
which would be considered high at or 10/ if frt m 
pasture. The expense of carting the cut grass, must, 
however, be deducted. Sir John Sinclair. 



SOOT. 

THAT valuable article Soot, has hitherto been too 
much neglected ; but the time has now come, that its 
use is in some degree understood. Although for years 
past it has been used with great success in England, 
yet its valuable qualities have been but little known to 
American Agriculturalists. But where experiments 
have been made in this country, its utility has far ex- 
ceeded our most sanguine expectations. 

By my own experience, as well as by that of othera 
much more skilled than myself in Agriculture, it is 
found the best mode to preserve the soot perfectly dry 
in large quantities. When the time of gardening com- 
mences, prepare your leach or large vat ; then sift 



134 SOW 

your soot, and all the coarse pound fine ; sift it agaie, 
and then fill your leach or vat with soot — after this, 
pour in as much rain or soft water as it will hold. 
When your plants first come up is the time that insects 
commit their depredations — draw off the ley and while 
the dew is on in the morning, with a water pot gently 
sprinkle plants from morning to morning till weeding 
time. When you are sure one half of the strength of 
the soot is extracted in ley, you may venture to strew 
the soot lightly over the ground close to the vegetable, 
it will be the destroyer of the fly bug, slug, wire worm 
and all kinds of insects that destroy vegetation. But 
this is not all, it is a most valuable manure, for it will 
attract the dew, and will, in its rich moisture, adhere 
to the soot and earth, as it does to gypsum or plaister 
of Paris when used in the interior of our country — • 
Soak your wheat and corn in this ley twenty four hours 
before they are planted or sown, and when coming up 
strew the leached soot gently over the ground, or ap- 
ply it to the hills of corn, it will answer all the before 
described purposes, and will completely prevent your 
wheat from smutting. 

It is also a defence from the birds, as the bitterness 
of the grain is so disgusting to their taste, they are 
obliged to have recourse toother methods of getting 
food. Palladium. 



SOWING. 



THE depth at which different seeds should be bu- 
ried in the soil is various according to the difference 
of seeds and soils. It has been found by experiment 
that few seeds will come up at all, when buried deep- 
er than tine inches; that some will rise very well 
from the depth of six inches, and that other seeds do 
not rise at all when they are more than two inches un- 
der the surface. And in general those seeds, the body 



SPA 135 

af which is thrown above the surface in vegetating, 
should have the less quantity of soil above them that 
they may not meet with two great resistance in rising; 
such as kidney beans and many other sorts The 
same seeds may and ought to be buried deeper in a 
light and dry than a heavy and moist soil When the 
ground is rolled after sowing the seeds will vegetate 
nearer the surface, and therefore they do not need to 
be sowed so deep as when the rolling is omitted. 

Sowing seeds with the drill has many advantages 
over the broad cast method. No seed is wasted, they 
all rise nearly together, each seed has proper room for 
its growth ; no starved heads will appear, and the 
whole will ripen together. Half a bushel of wheat, 
or even a less quantity, in this way will seed an acre 
sufficiently. 



SPAVINS IN HORSES. 

THERE are three sorts of spav'ns. First the bone 
spavin: This is a bony excresence formed in the joint, 
which impedes the motion of the joint, and is seldom 
curable. Secondly, the wind spavin; it commonly 
comes in the horse's ham. Prick the swelling with a 
phlehm knife, but take especial care not to injure the 
nervous cords, for this will often bring on the lock 
jaw. Upon opening the swelling you will often find a 
gelatinous homour to issue from the opening : apply a 
turnip pouUice for a few days to draw out the humour* 
thea strengthen the part, by bathing it with brandy. 

Thirdly, the blood spavin. The coats of the veia 
being ruptured, the blood extravasates, and forms a 
protuberance in the veia. 



136 S P I—S P O 

Cure, 

TAKE up the vein with a crooked needle and tie it 
above the swelling ; then let blood below it, atid apply 
cow dung fried in goose grease and vinegar by way of 
poultice. 



SPITTING OF BLOOD FROM THE LUNGS. 






A WEAK solution of nitre, or draughts of water 
soured with lemon juice j or a table spoonful of com- 
mon salt. 



spots of oil, tallow, &c. how removedfrom Books, fyc. 

TAKE five or six pieces of lighted charcoal, about 
the size of a walnut each, wrap them in a piece of 
very clean white linen, which has been previously 
dipped in water, and squeezed with the hand, in order 
to press out the superabundant liquid Lay the stuff 
that is spotted upon a clean napkin spread over a ta- 
ble ; then take the cloth containing the charcoal by 
the four corners and lay it on the spot ten or twelve 
times successively, pressing lightly upon it, and the 
spot will wholly disappear. When the spot is consid- 
erable, it sometimes goes through the stuff and the 
grease is imbibed by the napkin. Rut this is certain, 
that no spot of the nature above mentioned has ever re- 
sisted this process. 



spots, of crease, or paint — How removedfrom Woolen, 
Cloths, Silks, or Hats, 

TO two parts of tbe purest alcohol, or spirits of wine, 
add one part of pure unadultered essential oil of lem- 
on, (if good it will readily mix with the alcohol and be- 



S P O 137 

come as limpid as water.) Pour a few drops of the 
mixture on the spot which you wish to remove, and 
rub it briskly with a piece of white fine flannel if on 
woollen, or with silk if upon silk, and it will soon dis- 
appear and leave no stain or darkness behind it even 
on the most delicate colours. As it is not only absolutely 
necessary that the oil of lemons should be pure and una- 
dulterated, but that the spirits of wine should be of the 
first quality, its goodness may be easily proved by fir- 
ing a small quantity in a silver spoon, when, if really 
good, it will burn quite dry. This latter observation 
will apply to most of the receipts in which alcohol is 
employed. 

Another-. 

IN a pint of spring water dissolve an ounce of pure 
pearlash, adding to the solution a lemon, cut in small 
slices ; this being properly mixed, and kept in a warm 
state for two days, the whole mass must be strained, 
and the clear liquid kept in a bottle for use. 



spots of ink— To remove from Cotton *or Linnen, if 
recent. 

APPLY strong vinegar, lemon juice and salt, by rub- 
bing the spot with part of a lemon, or oxy -muriatic acid, 
or common muriatic acid, (spirit of Sea Salt) diluted— 
washing the spot well in cold water after the stain is 
removed* 



To remove Iron moulds. 

THE per oxyd of iron is very difficult to remove. 
The bleachers remove it, bv taknig strong muriatic acid, 
(spirit of salt; and dipping the finger in it, they dab the 
stain with the acid, letting it rest till the spot is vemov- 

N 



138 SPR— ST. A 

ed. This sometimes answers, but if the spot has been 
frequently washed it will be very hard to move. In 
this case put on a little of the sail of sorrel and lemon 
juice. Sometimes one of these methods succeeds and 
sometimes another. 



strains, cure for, 

TAKE a large spoonful of honey, the same quantity 
of salt, and the white of an egg, beat the whole up to* 
gether incessantly for two .hours, then let it stand an 
hour and annoint the place sprained with the oil which 
will be produced from the mixture, keeping the part 
"Well rolled with a good bandage. This is said, gener- 
ally, to have enabled persons with sprained ankles to 
walk in twenty-four hours, entirely free from pain* 



staggers in horses, Remedy for, which has been found 
effectual in repeated trials. By a gentleman in .North 
Carolina. 

THIS distemper, so fatal to that valuable animal, it 
is asserted, from the most respectable authority, may 
be cured by the following simple means : Take of the 
expressed juice of garlic six spoonsful}, which pour 
down the horse's throat by means of a horn, or give it 
him in a drench. If the first dose should not relieve 
him, or he should appear to be maze headed, repeat 
it after ah intermedium of two or three hours. The 
juice of the leek or onion given in rather a greater 
quantity, will produce nearly the same effect As this 
disorder is an apoplexy of the nervous .kind, it is pre- 
sumed that the pungency of the liquid, by exciting 
powerfully the nervous system, effects the cure of a 
disorder hitherto considered as fatal 



ST A— ST I— ST. A 139 

STAIN8. 

To take Ink Stains out of Mahogany. 

PUT a few drops of spirits of sea salt or oil of vit- 
riol in a teaspoonful of water, and touch the stain or 
spot with a feather; and on the ink's disappearing, rub 
it over with a rag wetted in cold water, or there will 
be a white mark not easily effaced. 

starch, how made, 

TO make staich from wheat the grain is* steeped ih 
cold water, till it becomes soft and yields a milky juice 
on pressure ; it is then put into sacks of linen, and 
pressed in a vat filled with water : as long as any milky 
juice exudes the pressure is continued ; the fluid grad- 
ually becomes clear, and a white powder subsides, 
which is starch. — Davy"* Elements of Agricultural Chem- 
istry. [See likewise "potatoe starch." 

STIFLE IN A HORSE, 

APPLY Oil of Spike to the part affected. 

st. anthony's fire — cure for, 

TAKE equal parts of fine spirit or oil of turpentine, 
and highly rectified spirits of wine, mix them well to- 
gether, and anoint the face gently with a feather dip- 
ped in it immediately after shaking the bottle. Do 
this often, always first shaking the bottle, and taking 
care never to approach the eyes, and it will generally 
effect a cure in a day or two ; for though it seems at 
first to inflame, it actually softens and heals. 



140 STE— STO 

Another. 
TAKE a sponge and anoint with mutton marrow. 

steel, mode of polishing. 

AFTER well oiling the rusty parts, let it remain two 
or three days in this state ; then wipe it dry with clean 
rags and polish it with emery or pumice stone, or 
bard wood. A little unslacked lime finely powdered, 
will, however, frequently be sufficient after the oil is 
cleaned off*. Where a very great degree of polish is 
required, it will be most effectually obtained by using 
a paste composed of fine levigated blood-stone and 
spirits of wine. Bright bars are, however, admirably 
cleaned in a few minutes, by using a small portion of 
fine corn emery, and finishing with flour of emery or 
rotten stone. 

stone — cure for. 

THE expressed juice or a strong decoction of dry 
horsemint, and of red onions, one gill of each to be 
taken every morning and every evening till the com 

plaint be removed, 

Another cure. 

BOIL thirty unroasted coffee berries in a quart of 
water, till the liquid becomes of a greenish hue ; half a 
pint of which is to be taken every morning and eve- 
ning, with ten drops ©f the sweet spirit of nitre. It 
will be proper, while using this medicine, occasionally 
to open the bowels by taking a spoonful or two of cas- 
tor-oil. This simple remedy is said to have been ad- 
ministered with great success in this most painful dis- 
ease. 



* S T R Hi 

Another. 

A GOOD handful of the fibres of garden leeks (not 
the leek part, but the fibres only,) boiled in two 
quarts of water till it is reduced to one quart ; of this 
take half a pint twice a day, when the stomach is 
most empty. 

Another. 

TAKE a large handful of the fibres or roots of the 
garden leek, put them into two quarts of soft water, 
cover it close and let it simmer gently over the fire, 
till it is reduced to one quart. Pour it off clear and 
drink a pint of it in the course of the day at morn- 
ing, noon and night. This is the quantity requisite for 
an adult. In the case communicated this prescription, 
was strictly adhered to for five or six weeks, when 
the stone was dissolved and gradually di^cnarged, and 
in about six weeks a perfect cure was effected. 



STRAIN. 

WHEN an ox is strained by over drawing — Take 
about half a pint of common soap, stir it together with 
a quart of milk and pour it down his throat. 



straw, mode of whitening. 

IN 1806, a new method of whitening straw wa? dis- 
covered in Germany. This consists of steeping it in 
muriatic acid saturated with potash. The straw thus 
prepared never turns yellow, is of a shining white and 
acquires great flexibility. 

N 2 



142 S T IT 



stubble, burning of. 






MR. W. CURTIS, of Lynn, Norfolk, found very 
beneficial effects from burning the stubble of oats, 
which was left eighteen inches high for this purpose, 
on a field broken up from old pasture the same year ; 
he afterwards sowed wheat and oats in succession on 
the same ground, the stubble of both which was burned 
in the same manner. The ashes were in every case 
ploughed in to a small depth, and the verges of the 
field mowed previous to the burning, to prevent acci- 
dents. After the third crop of corn, all of which 
were abundant and remarkably free from weeds, the 
field was laid down with clover and grass seeds, and 
the ensuing crops of both hay and grass proved 
infinitely finer than those before the ground was bro- 
ken up. 

Another piece of land was cropped for three succes- 
sive years, in the same manner as the first, to which 
it was similar in every respect of soil, aspect, and 
previous management, but in which the stubble was 
ploughed in, instead of being burned ; the produce 
of each crop on it was much inferiour to that of the 
iirst experiment, and the weeds increased so greatly, 
that on laying it down to grass, they overpowered the 
grass seeds so much that it was necessary to re-sow 
it ; and ever after, while Mr. Curtis held it, the grass 
and hay produced were coarse and full of weeds, and 
consequently inferior both in value and quantity to 
those of the other field, on which the stubble had been 
burned. 

in burning stubble, the danger which is to be appre- 
hended from the spreading of the rlames, may perhaps 
be obviated by tracing a furrow round the field, and 
setting fire to the stubWe on the inc<?r edge of the fur« 



S W 1 145 



SWINJ 



IF hogs are scurry, and inclined to manginess, a 
little oil poured upon their backs will cause it to come 
off. Some say a small mess of rye now and then as a 
change of food is good against manginess, and other dis- 
orders. 

If the issues in their fore legs should chance to get 
stopped, every attempt to fatten them will be vain. 
These, therefore should be watched, and if found to be 
stopped, should be rubbed open with a corn cob. Rub- 
bing and currying their hides very frequently is of ad- 
vantage to keep up the perspiration. It is grateful to 
the animals, as well as conducive to the»r health and 
growth. A proper scrubbing post in the middle of 
their pen will not be amiss, and during the whole time 
of their fatting they should have plenty of litter — 
They will lie more dry and warm, and it will 
be more than paid for by increase of good man- 
ure. 

When hogs are killed a single one should not be left 
alone in a pen. He will pine after his former compan- 
ions and will suffer for want of lodging so warm as he 
has been accustomed to do. 

After swine have reached a certain degree of fat- 
ness, by feeding them on potatoes, oats, pumpkins, &c. 
a small quantity of richer food will complete the fat- 
tening. The change, however, from meaner to rich- 
er keeping should be gradual. It may not be said, that 
boiled potatoes mixed with meal will be profitable ; 
for the mixture imparts no nutritive qualities to the 
potatoes. They are of no more use, except in mak- 
ing the change it is preferable to mix them with meal 
for a season, to prevent the bad effects of too great 
and sudden an alteration in their diet, 



14* TAN—TEA 

The following* mode of fattening hogs has heen re- 
commended. Wash potatoes cle'an, boil them and 
mash them fine while hot; mix in at the same time 
oats and peameal. Put the mixture into a large tub, 
and let it stand till it sours thoroughly. Ke*p a quan- 
tity of this on hand, always fermenting and give it to 
your hogs as often as they will eat. It is said that pork 
may be fattened in this way, and make a saving of at 
least one third of the feed and time consumed in the 
usual mode. 



TANNING LEATHER. 

THE leaves of the oak are said to be equal to the 
bark for tanning leather, provided they are used in the 
month of September, when they possess the bitter sap 
which they afterwards lose. 



tea, economy in the use of. 

SAVE the tea leaves, dry them to a crisp, reduce them 
to a fine powder in a mortar; a tea spoonful in a rag, 
put into a tea pot, will be equal in quality and 
flavour to three tea spoonfuls of the leaves when first 
used. 



tea kettles, to remove lime from, 

TAKE one quarter of a pound of Spanish Whiting, 
put it into a teakettle, when full of water, and 
boil it for an hour, or until the lime is removed. 



TEE— TOO 146 



TEETH. 

To cleanse the Teeth and improve the breath. 
TO four ounces of fresh prepared lime water add 
a drachm of Peruvian bark, and wash the teeth with 
this water in the morning before breakfast, and after 
supper. It will effectually destroy the tartar, and 
remove the offensive smell from those which have de-* 
cayed. 

Recipe for sore and ulcerated Gums, and a preservative 
for the Teeth. 

I 

MIX an equal quantity of the tincture of Jesuit's 
bark, and the tincture of myrrh. To a spoonful of 
this mixture add from three to five spoonsful I of water, 
as you wish it to be stronger or weaker, but the strong- 
er you can use it the better. Take a table spoonfull 
of this diluted mixture into your mouth, keeping it 
there as long as you can, and washing the gum with it 
as well as you are able. Repeat this operation as of- 
ten as convenient, and you will soon perceive the ben- 
eficial effects of it. Bo not rinse your mouth after it, 
but let the flavour remain. 



tools, hozv tempi , 

MAKE the tool red hot in the fire, and when red 
cherry colour, take it off from the fire, rub it with a 
piece of candle, and steep it immediately in good strong 
vinegar, in which you have diluted some soot. 

Another way to temper Tools, when too bri, 

PLUNGE them in boiling fat for two hours; then 
take them out. and let them cool gradually. 



14$ TOO 



TOOTH ACHE. 

Pill for an aching hollow Tooth. 

TAKE half a grain each of opium, and yellow sub- 
sulphate of quicksilver, formerly called turpith miner- 
al, make them into a pill, and place it in the hollow of 
the tooth some hours before bed time ? with a small 
piece of wax over the hole. 

Another. 

CAMPHOR and opium held in the mouth ; wet a 
bit of lint, or cotton with oil of cloves and apply it to 
the tooth ; a blister behind the ear ; a pepper corn 
bruised with hot brandy, and applied with a linen rag ; 
grated ginger and the white of an egg made into a plas- 
ter and applied to the cheek. Scarify the gums, if 
swoln, with a lancet. 

Another Remedy. 

[From a London Magazine for 1811.] 

PREPARE an infusion of the root of the narrow 
leafed dock, in the following manner : After washing 
the roots clean, bruise them all, and pour boiling wa- 
ter on them in a basin, until they are covered. Drink 
of this freshly made a teacuplull for three morningg 
in succession. Then, every other morning for a week 
or ten days. After which, omit it for nine days, then 
begin anew and proceed as before. It will usually be 
found to succeed after the second course. It is recom- 
mended bv Mr. Merrick, who declares that he has de* 
sived a permanent cure from its use. 



TOP J47 



TOP-DRESSING. 



TOP dressings are used with advantage for grain, 
grass, flax, &c. They should not be too freely given 
to winter grata in autuoan lest they unseasonably pro- 
duce a luxuriant growth at a time when it exposes the 
tender, plants to be the more injured by frost. It 
should be done early in the spring when the land is 
sufficiently dry to bear the treading of horses, without 
poaching; and after the manure has been applied it is 
generally well to harrow and roll it. Soot, ashes and 
other light manures are thus made use of. 

Mr. Deane makes the following remarks on this sub- 
ject If the application of top dressings to mowing 
ground were generally practised in this country, and 
yearly repeated as it ought to be instead of the gener- 
al, or rather universal neglect of it, it would put a new 
face upon things. A vast plenty of hay, double crops, 
two cuttings in a year, and much increase of wealth 
to farmers in general would soon be the happy con- 
sequences. 

Sir John Sinclair recommends top-dressing the grow- 
ing crop, when it is suspected that the land is not rich 
enough to bring a full crop to perfection, and says 
"this should be done early in the spring, when the land 
is sufficiently dry to bear the treading of a horse with- 
out poaching; and after the manure has been applied, 
the land should generally be harrowed or rolled. *^oot 
ashes and other light manures, are thus most aJvanla- 
geously made use of. 



14-8 TRE— TUR 

TREES. 

New method of inoculating Trees. 

A COMMON method of inoculating is by making 1 a 
transverse section in the back of the stock and a per- 
pellicular slit below it ; the bud is then pushed down 
to give it the position which it is to have. This meth- 
is not always successful ; it is better to reverse it by 
making the vertical slit above the transverse section, 
and pushing the bud upwards into its position, a meth- 
od which rarely fails of success ; because as ihe sap 
descends by the bark as has been ascertained, and does 
not ascend, the bud thus placed above the transverse 
section, receives abundance, but when placed below, 
the sap cannot reach it. 

New-York Evening Post. 

turkies, how to raise- 

PLUNGE the young chick into a vessel of cold wa- 
ter, the hour, or if that cannot be, the day it is hatched. 
Force it to swallow one whole pepper corn, then re- 
turn it to its mother. From that time it will become 
hardy and not fear the cold. When young turkies be- 
gin to droop, examine carefully the feathers on their 
rumps, and you will find two or three, whose quill part 
is filled with blood. Upon drawing these the chick re- 
covers, and after requires no more care than is bestow- 
ed on any other poultry. 

TURNIPS. 

SOW strong house or wood ashes over the ground 
about the time the turnips are springing up. This 
will cause the young plants to grow sooner out of the 



Way of insects, produce a large crop and make the 
turnips be sweet and palatable. 

To preserve Turnips from insects. 

1. TO each quart of turnip-seed, add one ounce of 
brimstone finely powdered, put both into a bottle, 
large enough to afford room to shake them well to- 
gether every day, for four or five days, previous to 
sowing, keeping the bottle well corked. 

2. Takp such a quantity of elder leaves, as, when 
Druised. will yield juice sufficient to cover the turnip 
seed you intend to sow, in which let it soak about twelve 
hours ; thf next day mix it with the bruised leaves, and 
sow all together. 

Turnip-seed is generally covered with a brush-har- 
row ; take elder bushes for this purpose ; if the ber- 
ries are on, the effect will be increased. If notwith- 
standing these precautions the fly should attack the 
young plant, draw elder bushes gently over them. 

Turnips sowed upon ground where a crop of flax 
has been taken off, are not so likely to be injured by 
the fly ; it is also. \\ ell to sow turnips while it rains, 
they do not require to be harrowed in, and grow so 
rapidly, as soon to get beyond the power of the 



VINEGAR OP ROSES. 

THIS fine vinegar is made by putting a quantity of 
fresh rose lea^ • loosely into a jar or bottle, pouring 
Upon them tbr best white wine vinegar so as to fill it 
to the height fir ccupied by the leaves, if^ for exam- 
ple the jar be thi apparently filled, there will be still 
room enough for tae proper quantity of vitieenri iefc 




Ih6 V I N— W A R 

it remain for two or three weeks in the sun of some 
other warm situation, when it may be strained off. and 
passed through a cotton or flannel bag. If it is not suf- 
ficiently fine, after having* been strained^ to put up in- 
to bottles, it is to be cleared in the usual way, either 
by means of isinglass or a little alum- water. It is com- 
monly kept in large bottles ; which should be well 
corked and kept in a dry situation. A lump of refined 
sugar should be put into each bottle. In this way are 
also to be made vinegar of gilliflowers, elder flowers, 
&c* &c. 



VINEGAR OF ORANGE FLOWERS, ELDER FLOWERS, MUSK, 
ROSES, &C. 

DRY an ounce of either of the above flowers, (ex» 
cept the orange flower-*, which must not be at all dri- 
ed) for two days in the sun ; then, putting them into a 
bottle, pour on them a pint of vinegar, closely stop the 
bottle, and let them infuse fifteen days in the heat of 
the sun. Vinegars of other flowers, tarragon, &c. may 
be made in a similar manner. 



WARTS Or CORNS. 

LfGHT a brimstone match, and let a few drops fall 
on a Wart or Corn, and it will be removed with little 
pain. 

Another Remedy, 

TCAKE the inner rind of a lemon, steep it for four 
and twenty hours in distilled vinegar, and apply it to 
the warts, it must not be left oh the part above three 
hours at a time'} andPis to be applied afresh every day. 
Or divide a red onion, and rub the warts well witk 
% or annoiat thfja niXk tkt milky juice of tlie 



W E £— W E N 161 

herb mercury several limes, and they will gradually 
waste away. 

Another. 

THE juice of a green bean, rubbed upon warts it is 
said wilt speedily eradicate them. 



WEEDS. 

WEEDS are deadly foes to the farmer, but in the 
compost heap they become friends. They should be 
carefully eradicated and deposited in the compost heap 
before their seeds have matured lest they should be 
propagated by scattering the manure before the seeds 
have become completely rotten. 



wen, Indian method of cure. 

FIRST, take a pound of new butter, without salt, 
lay it in a coal oven; get a bull-frog without hurting 
it, says the Indian ; the frog must be alive ; lay the frog 
with the back down in the butter; bake the frog until 
it is well dope ; take it out, pour off the butter in a ves- 
sel anJ annoint the wen as often as you please in the 
course of a day. This cure has been tried on a wen 
that had been growing for thirty years, and had be- 
come quite painful with an itching. It ceased the first 
day this was tried, and sunk down very soon. In eight 
or nine months, the body of the wen was squeezed out 
without pain. The patient thinks it would have come 
out much sooner but she neglected it as it did not hurt. 
The application produced a curious sensation, as it 
was searching to the roots. Any person thus affected, 
need not hesitate to try the experiment as it is very 
simple. Richmond Compiler. 



152 WHE 



WHEAT. 

WHEAT is liable to a great number of diseases, of 
wbich smut has hitherto proved one of the most in- 
jurious. 

Smut, however, may be prevented by any applica- 
tion, which completely frees the seed of smutty pow- 
der (the source of the infection) or that destroys it by 
acrid, corrosive or poisonous substances. 

In steeping or washing seed wheat as a remedy for 
smut, Sir John Sinclair observes "that as a safeguard it 
is an excellent practice, when the wheat seed is first 
put into any liquid, to run it very gently through a rid- 
dle, when not only the smut balls, but the imperfect 
grains, and the seeds of weeds will float and may be 
skimmed off at pleasure, which is not the case when 
the seed is put hastily into the water." "Pure cold 
\vater and lime,** observes the same author, "may be 
effectual, provided the seed be washed in several wa- 
ters, repeatedly changed, until it be perfectly clean, 
and then dried by quick lime, slacked either with sea, 
or with boiling water." He recommends salt water as 
being more effectual than even boiling watvir and lime. 
The water should be so impregnated with salt that an 
egg will float in it, or if sea water with such a quantity 
of salt dissolved in it, as to be equally strong, by which 
its specific gravity will be so increased that all unsound 
grains will swim in the pickle. About a bushel of 
wheat at a time is put into a sufficient quantity of this 
pickle, in which when stirred all the light or diseased 
grains will rise to the top, and may be skimmed off. 
The seed wheat is .then separated from the pickle, 
spread upon the floor, and a sufficient quantity of new 
slacked lime to dry th^ whole sifted upon it. 



WHE 153 

The following receipt is likewise from the same au- 
thor. Dissolve three ounces of blue vitriol in three 
English gallons of water (wine measure) for every 
three bushels of grain to be prepared. Let the liquid 
be put into a vessel capable of holding from sixty to 
eighty gallons, in such a quantity, that when three or 
four Winchester bushels of wheat shall be poured into 
the prepared liquor, it will rise five or six inches above 
the corn. The grain should be frequently stirred, and 
all that swims on the surface carefully removed. Af- 
ter the wheat has remained half an hour in the prepa- 
ration it should be taken out of the vessel, and thrown 
into a basket, which shall allow the water but not the 
grain to escape. It should then be immediately wash- 
ed in rain, or pure water, which prevents any risk of 
its injuring the grain. The seed ought afterwards to 
be dried, either with or without lime, before it is 
sown It is proper to observe that the grain should 
not be put into the prepared liquor, unless it has been 
well dressed, and w thoroughly dry. It may be kept 
without injury. 

The following miscellaneous particulars respecting 
smut, and the means of preventing it merit attention. 
1. The same water should never be used but once in 
washing wheat; even when brine is employed, it is 
safest to have fresh liquor to each parcel. 2. Lime is 
not only of service to dry the seed, but by its caustic 
and antiseptic qualities, it tends to destroy putridity, 
and animalculae of every description. $. If smutty 
grain is not threshed till the June or July succeeding 
the year it was reaped, the dust, it is said will become 
too volatile to attach itself to the grain when threshed, 
particularly by a mill ; nor is old seed wheat so liable 
to occasion smut, which by age loses the power of re- 
production. 4. Notwithstanding the violence of thresh- 
ing mills they do not bruise the smut balls so much as, 
the flail. 5 Great care must be taken, not to thresh 
.wheat on a floor where smutty wheat has been thresh 

o % 



154 WHE 

ed, nor to convey the seed, in a sack in which smutty 
wheat had been formerly put. 

On the subject of steeping" it may be proper to add 
that it would be well to extend that operation to other 
grains besides wheat. Every sort of seed should be 
steeped enough to promote a quick vegetation, and to 
secure a more uniform growth, which would greatly 
improve both the quantity and quality of the grain; 
and if the seed of barley and oats, as well as of wheat 
were clothed with saline and caustic particles, it would 
either preserve it entirely from the attacks of vermin, 
or destroy such as may venture to eat of it. 

We have been informed that unslacked lime answers 
an excellent purpose for preparing wheat for seed. 
A gentleman states that he put about 4 or 5 pounds of 
quick lime into a sufficient quantity of water to soak a 
bushel of wheat, then added the wheat, and permitted 
it to remain about twelve hours. The lime by slack- 
ing raised the temperature of the water to about blood 
heat, and the wheat became soft and parboiled. On 
sowing it, however, it sprouted much sooner than usu- 
al, flourished remarkably, and produced an excellent 
crop, entirely free from any appearance of smut. 

The following has been recommended by a farmer 
in Vermont. 

"My method is this — I take three quarts of slacked 
lime to each bushel of wheat, put them into a barrel, 
a layer of lime, alternately. Then pour in water till 
it is all covered. In this condition let it stand from 
two to four days, as the case may require; and the 
morning before sowing the wheat tap the barrel and 
draw off the liquor. 

In preparing wheat for grinding it is often made too 
dry, especially after it has been washed to free it from 



WHE— WHO— W 1 N 155 

smut and other impurities. When the wheat is dried 
too much the outside of the kernel, which should be 
separated from the flour by the boult, is ground so 
iine that it passes through the boult, with the flour. 
An experienced miller advises to moisten wheat which 
is in this situation by sprinkling it with a little water 
about 10 or 12 hours before grinding". But if this is 
neglected a slight sprinkling of the wheat in the hop- 
per during the time of grinding it will be of service ; 
taking care not to wet it too much, and by stirring the 
grain to distribute the moisture as equally as possible 
among the whole mass. 



WHEEZING IN HORSES. 

TO cure this disorder let the horse have good nou- 
rishment, much corn and little hay; and let the wa- 
ter given him every day be impregnated with half an 
ounce of saltpetre, and two drachms of Sal Ammo- 
niac. 



WHOOPING-COUGH. 

SEE "cough," page 37. 

WIND-GALLS. 

ON the first appearance of wind-galls their cure 
should be attempted by restringents and bandages, for 
which purposes let the swelling be bathed twice a day 
with vinegar, or verjuice alone, or let the part be fer- 
mented with a decoction of oak bark, pomegranates 
and alum boiled in verjuice, binding over it with a rol- 
ler, a woollen cloth, soaked in the same. Some for this 
purpose use red wine lees, others curriers' shavings 



160 WIN 

wetted with the same, bracing the part up with a firm 
bandage. 

If this method, after proper trial, should not be found 
to succeed, authors have advised that the swelling be 
pierced with an awl, or opened with a knife ; but mild 
blistering is in general preferred to these methods ; 
the included fluids being thereby drawn off, the im- 
pacted air dispersed, and the tumour gradually dimin- 
ished. A little of the blistering ointment should be 
laid on every other day for a week, which brings on a 
plentiful discharge, but generally in a few days is dried 
up, when the horse may be put to his usual work, and 
fche blistering ointment renewed in that manner once a 
month or oftener as the horse can be spared from bu- 
siness, till the cure is completed. This is the only 
method to prevent scars, which firing of course leaves 
behind and unless skillfully executed, too often like- 
wisp a fulness of the joint, with stiffness. The mild 
blistering ointment, where the sublimate is left out is 
ihe properest for this purpose. 

BartletVs Farriery. 



WINE, WHITE CURRANT. 

BOIL in six gallons of water eighteen pounds of ei- 
ther white Havana or loaf sugar, for half an hour, care- 
fully taking off the scum as it rises, and pour it boiling 
hot over two gallons of fine large white currants, pick- 
ed from the stalks, but not bruised. On the liquor's 
becoming near the temperature of new milk, ferment 
it with some good ale y est; and after suffering it to 
work for two days, strain it through a flannel bag into a 
barrel, which it should completely fill with half an 
ounce of well bruised isinglass. On its ceasing to fer- 
ment, immediately bottle it off, and put in each bottle a 
lump of double refined sugar. 



WOO— WO R 157 



wood, new mode of preserving, 

TAKE three parts of air slacked lime, two parts of 
wood ashes, and one part of fine sand ; sift the whole 
and add as much linseed oil as will be necessary to form 
a mass which can be laid on with a painter's brush. 
To make this mixture perfect and more durable, it 
will be well to grind it on a marble — Two coats of it 
are all that are necessary ; the first should be rather 
light, but the second must be put on as thick as the 
brush will permit. This composition thus prepared 
is impenetrable to water; resists both the influence of 
the weather and the action of the sun, which hardens 
and renders it more durable. The government of 
France has ordered that all gun carriages should be 
washed with this composition. 



WORMS. 

DRESSINGS of sea manure, wetting the ground 
with sea water, soot, lime and ashes sprinkled on the 
ground, the refuse brine of salted meat, water in which 
walnut leaves have been steeped for two or three 
weeks are all antidotes to the ravages of worms. Wa- 
ter in which fresh cow dung has been steeped it is said 
is likewise useful for the same purpose. Water im- 
pregnated with tar or turpentine sprinkled on plants, 
would probably preserve them from all sorts of in- 
sects, as they are known to have a great aversion to all 
kinds of terebinthinate substances. Beds in gardens 
may be scalded with hot water, previous to seeds be- 
ing sowed, or plants set out in them, which will destroy 
worms and their nits, and if they are then inclosed 
with boards, barks or any thing which will prevent 
the access of worms from other ground the plants will 
be secure. The ground where cabbage plants or any 
other plaats are set may be previously well dug, sift- 



»5» WOR 

ed and examined, the worms destroyed, and the plants 
defended by slips of birch bark, or little wooden frames, 
which may be covered over the top with gauze to pre- 
serve the plants from flies. It is said that the water in 
which potatoes have been boiled will destroy worms 
and other insects. 

Indian ^orn may be preserved from worms by soak- 
ing it from 36 to 48 hours in a solution of salt and 
water or salt petre. 



WORMS IN THE HUMAN SPECIES. 

TAKE the spiky tops of wormwood, the flowers of 
tansy, and the root of wake-roblin,* of each one ounce; 
mix and pulverize. Take the bright scales of iron 
from a smith's forge, two ounces, and white chrystal 
glass, one ounce ; mix, and make them into a moder- 
ately fine powder, but not impalpable. Then mix the 
whole together accurately for use t Dose for an adult 
from 30 to 40 gra : ns, or about a moderate tea-spoonful 
in molasses. For children, the dose must be propor- 
tioned to their age. 

Directions. 

TAKE a dose morning and night, on an empty sto- 
mach, for three days ; and on the fourth, purge off with 
jalap, or any convenient physic. Repeat the course 
as the case may require. One and two courses in the 
common worm cases will suffice. There is rarely 

* Dragon root, as it is sometimes called. 

t The leaves of wormwood and tansy will answer if need 
be ; and instead of wake-robin, the bark of the root of sas- 
safras. 



WO 51- WOtf— YEL !5S 

occasion for more than three, even in the tape worm* 
In alterative cases, the physic should be omitted. 



WORMS IN THE HEAt) OF SHEEP. 

THIS complaint makes its appearance by (heir lop- 
ping their ears, shaking their heads, stupidity and loss 
of appetite, which at length ends in consumption and 
death. 

Cure. 

FORCE vinegar by a squirt gun or syringe throngit 
the nostrils into the head of the sheep affected, winch 
will produce convulsions and sneezing of the sheep by 
which the worths witl be discharged. 

wounds, a remedy for, and preventative of the Lock 
Jaw, 

TO any'wound, either bruise or cut, apply lint wet 
with spirits of turpentine. If the wound should be 
"painful, make a weak lie, by putting some hot embers 
into water; soak the part in it ten or fifteen minutes 
several times in a day; keeping it about blood warm. 
If this does not remove the pain, put some embers, wet 
with chamber-lie into a thin bag and place it on the 
part affected. 



yellows. 

TFlIS disease in horses is similar to the Jaundice in 
tn^n: it arises from Obstructions formed in the bilia*y 
ducts, which prevents the bile fro n flowing into the 
circulation, which gives that yellow appearance in the 



J60 Y E L— Y 8 IS 

white of the eyes and urine, and a sense of weariness 
to the limbs in the animal diseased. 

Cure. 

TAKE aloes, Venetian soap and honey equal quanti- 
ties, to be made into pills, and let half an ounce be giv- 
en daily for a week. If this does not effect a cure^ 
steep celandine and saffron in cider to be given one 
quart a day. It is often necessary in this disease to let 
blood. 



YELLOW, PATENT. 

PATENT Yellow is composed of Semi vitrified 
oxyd of lead (litharge) and muriate of ammbnia (sal 
ammoniac) in the proportion of one ounce of the for- 
mer to one drachm of the latter Submitted in the form 
of a powder to a red heat. 



test, how made with Peas in Persia* 

TAKE a small teacup or wine glass full of split or 
bruised peas, pour on them a pint 01 boiling water, and 
set the whole in a vessel all night on the hearth, or in 
any other warm place ; this water will be a good yestj 
and have a froth on its top the next morning. In this 
cold climate, especially in a bold season, it should stand 
longer to ferment ; perhaps tw< nty-fcur or forty-eight 
hours, and the quantity of^-as should be greater. — 
The above quantity, says Mr. Kafnn. made for me as 
much bread as a half quarlern loa r . the qualitv of which 
was very good and light. !t may be necessary that in 
this country in winter it should be put to ferment m a 
cool oven. 



THE greater part of the following articles 
having come to hand since the preceding 
pages were printed, we have thought it best 
to place them in an 

APPENDIX. 



•wwvwvwww 



apple jelly, for preserving Sweetmeats. 

PARE, quarter and core winter pippins, or almost 
any other kind of apples, and put them into a stew pan, 
with water barely sufficient to cover them When the 
fruit is boiled to a pap add a quart of water, boil it half 
an hour longer, run it hot through a flannel bag, put 
it up id a jar, and keep it covered for use. A little lem- 
on peel boiled with the apple, and a pound of pow- 
dered loaf sugar added to each pint of the pulp, and 
boiled up, will make a very good apple jelly for the 
table, or to eat with cream. 

apples, an excellent sintp of. 

GRIND a quantity of sweet apples, those for exam- 
ple generally known by the different names of sweet- 
ings. Express the juice immediately upon their being 
ground, and strain it as clear as possible, before any 
fermentation has commenced. Put it into a large 
boi er and boil it down to a sirup, which in taste 

wl.f?r i ° ^ P leasanrer than common 
West India molasses, and as little subject to ferraenta- 



162 APO— ASC— ASP 



tion. Four gallons of rich svvqet apple juice will yield 
one of sirup ; by boiling it longer and reducing the 
quantity, it may be made of any consistence required, 

APOPLEXY. 

A LADY about 40 years of age, who lived at the cor- 
ner of one of the streets in Paris, was struck early in 
the month with apoplexy. M. V alette, the physician 
was called in, and he restored her instantly to life, by 
bleeding in a jugular vein, and by stimulating the blood 
to flow abundantly by the application of a common 
needle to the exterior part of the vein and the adjoin- 
ing nerves. It is thus shewn that the mechanical stim- 
ulant is able to revive nervous sensibility, and by crea- 
ting a kind of peristaltic motion to deduce from the 
arteries a great quantity of blood. — There is also ano- 
ther instance of the efficacy of this application in the 
case of a M. Chatelin, a linen merchant, who had also 
been restored to existence under similar circumstan- 
ces. It is trusted that this discovery will be generally 
beneficial. 

ascarides, or pin worms, to remove from Children* 

MILK one gill, Camphorated spirits one drachm, mix 
and use for an injection. Or 

A drachm or two of Camphor may be dissolved in 
half a pint of milk, and used in the same way. Either 
of these will seldom fail. 

ASPARAGUS. 

TO cultivate Asparagus in the best manner, open a 
trench, three feet wide and twelve inches deep. If it 
be close to the south side of a garden wall it will be 
up the earlier in the spring. Fill the trench half full 
of good dung j make it levelj and sprinkle a little rich 



AST 163 

earth over it, and lay on the roots in their natural pos- 
ture ; eight or nine inches apart. Or, if you cannot 
get roots, place the seeds at half the distance from 
each other. Cover them by filling up the trench with 
the blackest of the earth which was taken out If you 
plant root3, the shoots may be cut the second year af- 
ter, ; if seeds they will not be fit to cut till the third 
year. All the shoots, which come up before the mid- 
dle of June may be cut off without injury to the roots; 
After which time the late shoots should be left to run 
up and seed ; otherwise the roots will be weakened. 
The seeds may be well preserved on the branches 
through the winter, hung up in a dry situation. 

"This plant grows well on ground that is shaded. 
The plants will be large and tender; but they will not 
be so early. It is not amiss to have one bed in a shady 
place, to supply the table after the season is over for 
cutting the first. In autumn, after the tops are become 
white by the frost, they should be cleared off, and a 
layer of dung, or rich soil, an inch thick laid over the 
bed. This should be done yearly, and the bed kept 
clear of weeds. If the bed should be too high by this 
management, the suiface may be taken off with a spade 
early in the spring to the depth of two inches, before 
the young shoots are in the way. But, when this is 
done, a thin dressing of rotten dung, or compost 
should be laid on." Aew- England Farmer. 



ASTHMA. 

SPIRITS of Tobacco two or three drops in a spoon- 
ful of water gruel, or the same quantity of Skunk's 
musk, on sugar; or three or four drops of Lobelia. 
Either of the above will, generally, give immediate, 
relief. 



164 BEE— BEV— BLA 



beef, Receipt for Pickling and Curing. 

For an hundred pounds of beef take sixteen pounds 
of Bay or fine Salt, two pounds brown Sugar, four and 
an half gallons water and six ounces Salt Petre. 

The Salt, Sugar, and Water should be put into a 
brass or copper kettle over a fire. Stir the salt often, 
and continue stirring it until the salt has all dissolved, 
and the scum done rising. Take off the scum as it 
rises. After this add the Salt Petre. Let the pickle 
stand till it is about cold, or blood warm. Have the 
beef cut in smallish pieces and packed pretty close, 
free from any bloody pieces. Add the pickle, and 
cover it tight from the air. Should there be any ap- 
pearance of mould on the surface of the pickle, at any 
time, add a handful or two of fresh salt. 

beverage for a weak Constitution. 

BOIL as much pearl or Scotch barley, in pure water, 
as will make about three pints, then straining it off, and 
having in the mean time dissolved an ounce of gum 
arabic in a little water, mix them, and just boil the 
whole up together. The barley water need not be 
thick, as the gum will give it sufficient consistence. 
When used, take it milk warm, the good effect will 
soon appear. It must be substituted as a common 
beverage in place of beer, ale, &c. at meals. 

BLACK BALL. . 

TAKE of Bees wax and Bayberry tallow equal parts; 
of Lamp Black and Ivory black at discretion. Add to 
every six pounds of the composition two drachms of 
Pearl ash. 



B L A— B R E— B R U— B UL 165 

blacking, Shining German. 



■s 



BREAK a cake of white wax into small pieces and 
put it into an earthen vessel. Pour over it as much 
oil of turpentine as will quite cover it, and leave it for 
twenty-four hours closely covered up, in this time the 
wax will he dissolved to a paste ; which is then to be 
mixed with as much real ivory black, in fine powder 
as it is necessary to give the whole of it a very black 
colour. When it is wanted for use take a little of it 
out on the point of a knife, and rub it into the leather 
of the boots or shoes, with a brush which will leave 
the wax on the surface of the leather quite firm, 
black and glossy. Should the composition get dry, it 
may at any time be moistened by stirring in a little 
fresh oil of turpentine. 

breath, shortness of. 

MIX three quarters of an ounce of finely powdered 
Senna, half an ounce of Sulphur, and a quarter of an 
ounce of pounded Ginger in four ounces of clarified 
Honey. Take the bigness of a nutmeg every night 
and morning for five days successively, afterwards 
once a week for some time, and finally once a fortnght 

BRUISE. 

IT has been affirmed that common salted butter is an 
excellent application for a bruise. 

BULL. 

A BULL may be first used at fourteen or eighteen 
months. He then shews most vigour, and more ener- 
gy may be expected in his produce. At two or three 
years old, they frequently become ungovernable, and 
are killed. Sir John Sinclair. 

p 2 



*66 3UN~ BUR— CAK— CAN 

BUNNS. 

ONE pint of Milk, five Eggs, one tea cup of Sugar, 
four table Spoonfulls of yeast, a piece of butter as big 
as the bowl of a large Spoon. Thicken with flour to a 
batter of suitable thickness. 

BURNS AND SCALDS. 

ANOINT with Lime Water, or Proof Spirit and 
Lime Water. Then cover the part with a soft linnen 
rag, and cotton wool. 

BURNT TONGUE, BLACK TONGUE, OR SCALDED MOUTH IN 
HORSES. 

WASH and cleanse the mouth with Sweet Oil, and 
get into the horse as much as he will swallow, not ex- 
ceeding one pint ; then rub the throat with Spirits of 
Turpentine, Sweet Oil and Camphor, equal quantities, 
and well mixed. 

The gentleman, who has furnished the ab*ove has had 
a number of horses in his stable sick with the above 
distemper, and after trying the various recipes has 
found this to be the most efficacious. 

Salem Gazette. 

CAKE, SPONGE 

TAKE ten egsrs, one pound of Sugar, one half pound 
of flour, beat tne yolks, sugar and flour together. 

CANCER. 

TAKE leaves of Plantain and White Hoarhound, 
boil it in white wine — add a little salt, wash three or 
four times a day ; 



CAN—CAT— CH A 167 

Take snails, or earthworms. Bake them, and you 
obtain an oint w . ? TT *e U three or four times a day. 
To ease the pain apply Iresh meat, 

cancers, a Beer for, 

TAKE Sarsaparilla roots, the tops and roots of the 
Whortle berry bush, and Hop roots, of each one pound ; 
Blood root and Unicorn root, of each three ounces ; 
Barley malt, half a peck. Make of these ingredients 
seven gallons of beer. Dose, from half a gill to a 
whole one three times a day. 

caterpillars, best mode af destroying. 

TAKE a long pole with a sponge at the end of it 
Dip this sponge in spirits of turpentine, and touch it 
thus charged to the nest. A small quantity of this pun- 
gent substance will diffuse itself over a large nest and 
destroy a great number of these troublesome and nau- 
seous insects. 



CATHARTIC PILL, MILD. 

MANDRAKE root, finely powdered, Extract of 
Butternut bark of each equal quantities ; beat into a 
mass with a solution of Gum Arabic, an 1 make it into 
pills of a moderate size ; from two to six will operate 
gently as physic The extract of butternut is prepar- 
ed by evaporating the water in which the bark has 
been boiled to a consistence fit for making pills, taking 
care not to burn it. 

CHANGE OF SEEDS. 

THOSE plants, which are the natural growth of a 
country are not so liable to grow worse. The best 
countries and soils to procure seeds from for sowing are 
those, to which they are natural. Those seeds which 



163 CHE 

are so quick in their growth that their plants come to 
maturity eariy will answer well, whefl carried from a 
southern to a northern climate, such as flax, turnips, 
&c. But Indian corn, it is said, will not answer, if car- 
ried far north or south of its native place. 1 have 
known, says Mr. Deane, seed of Indian corn carried 
as much as two whole degrees south from its native 
place, which was so much scorched by the greater heat 
of the sun as to produce little or nothing. And it is a 
fact well known that the species of maize, called Vir- 
ginia corn, will not come to maturity in New-England. 

An English writer observes that the practice of 
changing seeds is of little service, and recommends to 
cultivators, a few days before harvest to walk through 
their fields and gather the prime samples of every 
species of seed, and ever afterwards to continue the 
same practice, by repeating the operation of collect- 
ing the most perfect grain from the crops produced by 
such selected seed. The same observations apply to 
«very variety of cultivated crops. 

It may, however, sometimes prove useful to sow 
early seeds on cold backward lands, and the later sorts 
on dry and warm soils. 

cheese sage, best method of making, 

TAKE the tops of young red sage, and having 
pressed the juice from them by beating in a mortar ; 
tlo the same with the leaves of spinach, and then mix 
the two juices together. After putting the rennet to 
the milk, ptur in some of this juice, regulating the 
quantity by the degree of colour and taste it is intend- 
ed to give to the cheese. As the curd appears break 
it gently, and in an equal manner; then emptying it 
into the cheese vat, let it be a little pressed in order 
to make it mellow. Having stood for, about seven 
hours, salt and turn it daily for four or five weeks, when 



CHO— COL— COO 169 

it will be fit to eat. The spinach, besides improving 
the flavour and correcting" the bitterness of the sage, 
will give it a much finer colour than can be obtained 
from sage alone. 

CHOLERA MORBUS. 

TAKE a little fresh lime juice, loaf sugar, and rum 
or brandy, (the latter is best ) Pu! them into a vessel, 
pour on them boiling* water, and give a spoonful as hot 
as possible after each turn of puking. 

cold water, how to prevent the bad effects of drinking 
Cold Water, or Cold liquors of any kind in warm 

weather. 

1. Avoid drinking whilst you are warm ; or 

2. Drink only a small quantity at once, and let it 
remain only a short time in your mouth before you 
swallow it; or 

3. Wash your hands and face and rinse your mouth 
with cold water before you drink If these precau- 
tions have b«en neglected, and the disorder incident to 
drinking cold water has been produced, the first, and 
in most instances, the only remedy to be administered 
is sixty drops of liquid laudanum, in spirit and water, or 
warm drink of any kind. 

When laudanum cannot be obtained, rum and water 
should be given. Vomits and bleeding should not be 
used without consulting a physician. 

COOKIES. 

BEAT eight ounces of butter, and mix with two 
well beaten eggs, eight ounces of dried flour, and the 
same of lump sugar, and a grated rind of lemon peel. 



170 00 S— C T— C U~C W- 

Add the whole together, and beat half an hour with a 
silver spoon. Butter small pans and half fill them. 
Bake 20 minutes in a quick oven. 

cosmetic, elegant, from a London Publication^ 

TAKE a pound of white soft soap and two ounces of 
Spermaceti pounded, and a quarter of an ounce of 
pounded camphor, two table spoonfulls of sweet oil, 
three of the best brandy, and a tea cup full white 
sand. Dissolve and mix the whole over the fire, and 
when nearly cold, suit it to your taste with essence of 
foergamot, lavender or other perfume. 

cotton, how dyed with Madder, an practiced in Smyrna, 
From Mr, Eaton. 

BOIL the cotton in common olive oil, or in some 
other pure vegetable oil, and afterwards in mild alkali, 
when it is thus cleansed, it will take the madder die ,* 
and this is the fine colour which is so much admired in 
the Smyrna cotton yarn. 

cough and protracted coLi>,when no symptoms of inflam- 
mation are present. 

BLOOD Root, Extract of Liquorice, Anniseed, of 
each one ounce ; pulverize them, and put them into a 
quart of water. Simmer to one pint, then strain and 
add four ounces of boney, and one half pint of old rum. 
Of this take a table spoonful three or four times a 
day. 

cow. 

THE principal distinguishing marks of a good Cow 
are said to be these : wide horns, a thin head and neck, 
dew lap large, full breast, broad back, large deep bel- 
ly ; the udder capacious but not too fleshy j the milch 



CUD 171 

veins prominent, and the bag tending far behind ; teats 
long and large ; buttocks broad and fleshy ; tail long 
pliable and small in proportion to the size of the 
the carcase, and the joints short. To these outward 
marks may be added a gentle disposition, a temper free 
from any vicious tricks, and perfectly manageable on 
every occasion. On the other hand, a cow with a 
thick head and short neck, prominent back bone, slen- 
der chest, belly tucked up, small udder, or a fleshy bag 
short teats, and thin buttocks is to be avoided, as total- 
ly unfit for the purposes either of the dairy, the 
suckler or the grazier." 

The milch cow is generally in her prime at five 
years old, and will continue in a good milking state till 
ten years of age or upwards. Cows should be milked 
regularly, morning and evening, and always as nearly 
at the same hours as may be. Some have recommen* 
ded milking them three times a day, at five, one and 
eight ; and it is said if they are full fed they will give 
half as much again milk if milked thrice as if only 
twice a day. Those farmers who would make the 
most of their cows should provide a bull to run in the 
herd. 

"If the cleaning of a cow, after calving, be delayed, 
it may be promoted by giving her a pail of warm water, 
with some ashes in it."* 

cud lost by an ox or cow, Remedy for. 

MIX together an equal quantity of sour leaven and 
common salt, then add a piece of loam or brick clay, 
equal in weight to the whole : break and mix all these 
well together, and then add as much urine as will 
serve to beat it up into a paste. Make this into two 
or three balls as big as the creature can swallow^force 

^Rees* Cyclopaedia. 



172 C U S— I) R O— D Y S 

one of these down his throat every three days and it is 
said it will effect a cure. 

custard, cheap mid excellent. 

BOIL, in a quart of milk, a little lemon peel, a srrali 
stick of cinnamon^ and a couple of peach leavi s ; 
sweeten it with a few lumps of sugar, and rubbing 
down smoothly two tablf-spoonfnlls of rice flour in a 
fmall basin of cold milk, mix it with the beaten yolk of 
a single eggr, then take a basin of boi'mg milk, and 
well mixing it with fhe contents of the olher basin, 
pour the whole into the remainder of the boiling miik, 
and ke^p stirring it a.U one way till it begins to thicken, 
end is about to boil ; it must then instantly be taken off 
?nd put into a pan, stirred a little together, -and it may 
be served up either together in a dish, or in custard 
cups to be eaten hot or cold. 

DROPSY. 

PYROLA fcTmbellata, Winter Green, or Pipsissiwa 
has been found useful in dropsical cases. A table 
spoonful of a strong infusion of the herb is to be taken 
every hour, with a little sirup. In disorders of the kid- 
nies it has been found serviceable. Its efficacy in can- 
cer has by some been questioned. 

DYSENTERY. 

TAKE a quantity of black elder berries, when per- 
fectly ripe ; press the juice ; set it over a slow fire ; 
add as much brown sugar as will make it palatable, let 
it simmer until it becomes a thin sirup. Then add 
one third the quantity of brandy, and cork it up for use. 
A wine glass full is the dose for a grown person, and 
in the same proportion for a child It may be taken 
three or four times a day. This medicine has proved 
efficacious in many cases, when almost every thing else 
had failed. 



E Y E—F E L— F L A 173 

eyes inflamed, a Collyrium for, 

WHITE Vitriol 12 grains, Sugar of Lead 16 grains, 
water 8 ounces. Mix, and when the white powder 
has settled to the bottom, carefully decant so that no 
particle of the sediment may remain in the collyrium. 

fellon, cure for, 

TAKE a piece of rock salt about the size of a but- 
ternut or English walnut, and wrap it up closely in a 
green cabbage leaf, but if not to be had, in a piece of 
brown paper well moistened with water. Lay it on 
embers, and cover it up so as to roast; when it has 
been about twenty minutes take it out and powder it as 
fine as possible. Then take some hard soap and mix 
the powdered salt with it so as to make a salve. If 
the soap should contain but little turpentine, which 
its smell will determine, add some more, but if it smells 
pretty strongly of it none need be added. Apply the 
salve to the part affected, and in a short time it will 
totally destroy it and remove the pain. 

flax, how to dress to look like Silk. 

TAKE one part lime, and between two and three 
parts of wood ashes ; pour over them a due proportion 
of water to make a strong lie, after they have stood to- 
gether all night, which must be poured off when 
quite clear. Tie handfulls of Flax at both ends to pre- 
vent its entangling, but let the middle of each be spread 
open, and put into a kettle, on the bottom of which 
has been first placed a little straw with a cloth over it, 
then put another cloth over the flax, and so continue 
covering each layer of flax with a layer of cloth till 
the kettle is nearly full. Pour over the whole the 
clear lie and after boiling it for some hours, take it out, 
and throw it in cold water. This boiling &c. may be 
repeated it requisite. The flax must be each time dri- 



in FRU 

ed, hackled, beaten and rubbed fine ; and at last, dres- 
sed through a large comb, and through a very fine one. 
By this process the flax acquires a bright and soft 
thread. The tow which is off, when papered up and 
combed like cotton, is not only used for many of the 
same purposes, but makes lint for veterinary surgeons- 

fruit trees, how forced to bear. 

WITH a sharp knife cut the bark of the branch, 
which you mean to force to bear, not far from the place 
where it is connected with the stem ; or if a small 
branch or shoot, near where it is joined with the lar- 
ger bough ; the cut is to be made round the branch 
so as to encircle it, and penetrate to the wood. A quar- 
ter of an inch from the first cut, make a second cut like 
the first, so that by both encircling the branch, you 
have marked a ring upon the branch a quarter of an 
inch broad between the two cuts — then with a knife 
separate the bark from the wood, removing even the 
&ne inner bark whichlies immediately upon the wood, 
ao that no connexion whatever remains between the 
two parts of the bark, leaving the wood naked, white 
and smooth. 

This operation must be performed when the buds 
are strongly swelling, or breaking out into blossoms ; 
the same year a callous is formed on at each edge of 
the ring, and the bark is again restored without detri- 
ment to the tree or the branch operated upon. 

This operation seems calculated to force those trees 
to bear, which put out a proportion of blossoms, -and 
yet bear no fruit ; or if they bear, the fruit often drops 
from the tree before ripe. The fruit from trees so 
operated upon will be larger, more fair, and ripe seve- 
ral weeks earlier than the other fruit upon the same 
itr«e. It is weil known to botanists that the sap ascends 



G I N— G R A—G R E— I N F 175 

in the wood, but descends by the bark : and the above 
operation prevents its return. 

GINGER BREAD, Molasses. 

TWO pounds of flour, four ounces of Butter, two 
r.unces of Ginger, a tea-cup full of Cream, a tea-spoon- 
iul of Pear] ash, and one pint Molasses. Spice to your 
taste, and knead it till very light. 

GINGER BREAD. Sugar. 

THREE pounds of Flour, a grated Nutmeg-, two 
ounces of Ginger, one pound sugar, two spoonfuls of 
pearl ash, dissolved in cream, one pound butter, four 
eggs. Let it be kneaded stiff. 



GRAFE TINES. 

A POTATOE, placed upon the ends of such vines 
as have been cut, will effectually check their bleeding, 

GREEN DRESSING. 



BUCK- WHEAT, rye, pease or oats may be sowed 
in the spring, and in June ploughed in, when they are 
fullest of sap, and most easily rotted. The ground 
should be again ploughed in the fall, sowed with winter 
grain and well harrowed. 

Where a green crop is thus ploughed in, it has been 
recommended to pass a roller over it, which lays it flat 
in the same direction in which the plough is to pass. 

infected air, how purified, and the smell occasioned by 
a dead rat or other animal removed. 

TAKE a small earthen vessel or gallipot, into whic, 
put a little saltpetre, more or less according to the siz 






176 1 N K—I T C 

of the room; pour upon this a sufficient quantity of the 
oil of vitriol so as completely to saturate it, and shut 
the room up closely for an hour, in which time it will- 
be found to be perfectly free from the offensive 
smell 

INK. 

NUTGALLS, in powder 4 ounces, Logwood 2 oun- 
ces. These are to be boiled for an hour in six pounds, 
(three quarts) of water, or until one half is evaporated, 
It is then percolated through a hair sieve, and to the 
liquid are added, copperas 2 ounces, gum Arabic half 
an ounce, Blue Vitriol half an ounce, Sugar Candy half 
an ounce. It should be sufficiently warmed to dissolve 
these ingredients. It is then to be well stirred, and 
suffered to stand 24 hours* It is then poured from the 
sediment, and should be preserved in well stopped 
glass or stone jars. 

It is fit for immediate use. This composition was 
the formation of Mr. Ribancourt. It is unquestionably 
the best writing ink in use. Dr. Cox of Philadelphia 
says he has tried a great variety of recipes for the for- 
mation of ink, and has found none equal to this. 

ITCH OINTMENT. 

HOGS' fat or fresh butter one pound. Salt, black 
pepper, ginger, and proof spirit of each one ounce, 
Let those which require pulverizing be finely powder-, 
ed. Then mix the ingredients and simmer them over 
a slow fire one hour. Remove it and let it cool, so that 
no scent will be produced by the addition of flour of 
sulphur, of which add one half ounce, and spiritsof tur- 
pentine about two common table spoonfulls. It should 
be constantly stirred until it cools. One ounce of this 
ointment is sufficient to cure a person. On commenc- 
ing the use o/ it the clothes should be changed, and a 



JfAU—MOT 177 

iittle sulphur be taken daily A little of the ointment 
should be rubbed on where there are pimples (without 
any roasting) every night, for about a week, when the 
itch will be cured. In the preparation of this oint- 
ment, if table spoonfulis be uskd, in lieu of ounces, it 
will answer every purpose. 

This ointment is to be preferred to most others int© 
which sulphur enters, because it produces little or no 
sulphurous scent, and compared with mercurial oint* 
ments of every kind it is equally certain ; and, it is fiee 
from every danger, which is always great in the use 
of those ointments. 

Another. 

TAKE Hog's- Lard and Sulphuric Acid, and simmer 
them together. Also, 

Poke root and Hog's Lard. 

jaundice, Cathartic sirup for. 

White Ash Bark, Black Cherry Tree Bark, Butter- 
nut Tree Bark, White Poplar Bark, of each one pound. 
Let them be finely cut into chips, and put into three 
gallons of water ; boil till one half is evaporated. 
Strain and simmer till there remains only one quart. 
Then add of proof Spirits and Molasses of each one 
half pint. Take from a table spoonful to a glass two 
or three times a day or sufficient to keep the bowels 
open. 

MOTHS. 

TO prevent moths from attacking woolen clothes, 
or worms from destroying books, place in the drawers 
or corners of the shelves some of the roots or blade of 
of the Sweet Flag. A decoction of the same will pre- 

*2 



178 GIN— PAN 

vent their"attacking buffalo skins, by sprinkling it over 
them. This is not only effectual for the above men- 
tioned purposes, but is a pleasant aromatic. 

OINTMENT FOR ULCERS, OR OLD SORES. 

RESIN and Hogs Fat of each one ounce, Verdigris 
finely powdered one ounce. Simmer over a slow fire 
till the resin and the lard be melted. Then add the 
verdigris, and gently stir till it cools. 

This ointment has been found useful in indolent 
sores of all kinds. When melted a little of it should 
be poured into the sore, and a salve, made as follows 
be spread and laid overit. 

Hogs Fat, Bees Wax, Resin, Bayberry Wax, of each 
one pound. Melt them together, and set aside for use. 
Both the salve, and the ointment ought to be prepared 
in earthen vessels. 

OINTMENT FOR WEAK JOINTS, 

BOIL together White Oak and Sweet Apple Tree 
bark till you obtain an extract, and spread a plaster of 
it, and wear on the part affected. 

PANADA. 

f 

BOIL for not more than two minutes some slices or 
crumbs of bread, with a blade of mace in a quart of 
water; then taking out the bread; and finely bruising 
it in a basin, mix as much water as will make it a prop- 
er consistence. Put in a bit of fresh butter, grate a 
little nutmeg, and sweeten it to the palate. If wine 
be required, though it is much best without, by no 
means boil it with the water and bread. This is a del- 
icate diet for a weak stomach. 



P 1 1—P L U— P O I— P UD 178 

tiles, ointment for, 

TAKE Nutgalls finely powdered, and Hog's Lard, 
and stir them together when the lard is cooling or 
nearly cold ; or 

Take the inner bark of the sweet elder, and simmer 
it with fresh butter. Use it night and morning. 

PLUM- CAKE. 

MIX ten ounces of butter in six pounds of dry flour 
and ten ounces of Sugar, twelve of Currants, and five 
of powdered Pimento. Six spoonfulls of yeast to a pint 
of milk warmed. 

poisons. Remedy for. 

SPRINKLE flour over the part and cover it witb 
green leaves. 

pudding, Boiled Bread. 

GRATE with bread, pour boiling milk over it, and 
cover close. When soaked an hour or two beat it 
fine and mix it with two or three eggs well beaten. 
Put it into a basin that will just hold it ; tie a floured 
cloth over it, and put it into boiling water. Serve it 
up with melted butter poured over it. It may be 
eaten with salt or sugar. 

pudding, Yorkshire. 

MIX five spoonsfull of flour with one quart of 
milk and three eggs, well beaten. Butter the pan and 
bake it. 



180 PUD— RAT— RHE- Rf N— ROL 

PUDDING, BAKED APPLE. 

Pare and quarter 4 large apples ; boil them tender* 
with the rind of a lemon, in so little water, that when 
done, none may remain ; beat them fine, add the 
crumbs of a small roll, 4 ounces of butter, melted, the 
yolks of five, and the whites of three eggs, the juice of 
one half a lemon, and sugar to your taste. Break all 
together, and lay it in a dish to turn out. 

PRATTLES Or CROUF. 

OIL of Olives and Honey, of each half an ounce, 
Urine one and an half ounce, Vinegar two drachms. 
Warm so as to melt the honey, and stir it well when 
given. Dose, a spoonful once in an hour or two. 

Chrcnic. 

TAKE Spirits of Turpentine, and Sal Ammoniac, 
and rub on the pained part, till a burning sensation is 
produced. Then cover the part with flannels, or 
some moist leaf as burdock, &c. 

ring worms. Cure for. 

TAKE white vitriol 10 grains. Put it in an ounce 
of water, and an ounce of laudanum. Wash the part 
frequently. 

rolls, good and easy method of making. 

TAKE a quart of flour, three table spoonfulls of 
yest, a bit of butter the size of a large walnut, as much 
warm water as will wet the flour, a little salt, and an 
egg. Mix the wiiole up light, make it in rolls, put 
them in tins, place the tins before the fire for the rolls 
to raise a little, then put them in the oven, and be care 
ful not to burn them black. 



S H A—S H E— S A— S P E 18! 

shad, to fry without Butter or Lard. 

FIRST warm your pan, then lay in the fish (after 
wiping it with a cloth) with the skin downward over a 
moderate fire — it will give out sufficient fat to fry 
itself. Shad, cooked in this manner, eats much better 
than in the common way. 

sheep, the Foot rot in, Cure for. 

PARE the hoofs of the sheep thus affected, letting 
no hollow remain, which may collect the dirt ; if mat- 
ter is formed be particularly careful to let it out — Af- 
ter which take some stale urine and wash their feet 
quite clean, and wipe them with a sponge. Put then 
the sheep into a house or shed, the floor of which has 
been previously covered about two inches thick with 
quick lime reduced to a powder by means of a small 
quantity of water, the newer the lime the better. Let 
the sheep stand upon it six or seven hours and the cure 
will be effected. 

SOAP HARD. 

TO make hard soap Soda should be dissolved and 
leached through quick lime. Six times as much olive 
oil or tallow are to be add?d as the quantity of Soda 
used. The lie is then to be gently boiled, and 
the ingredients will unite into a bard white Soap, 
if the carbonic acid be properly taken from the Soda. 
If a quantity of rosin be added it will form the common 
yellow bar Soap. To make the soap marbled, soap- 
makers add coperas, cinnabar, &c. to it before it is 
made into cakes. 

SPECTACLES. 

GREEN glasses have been by occulists, as well as 
opticians almost invariably recommended to preserve 



BZ" S T 



the sight in cases of weak eyes. It is indeed universal- 
ly admitted that a green colour is highly grateful to 
the eye* There is a very essential difference, howe- 
ver, between looking at, and through green. A greater 
exertion of the organ of vision is unquestionabty re- 
quired in using green than white glasses, on account of 
their opacity. By using green Spectacles, especially 
those of a deep tint, the eye is subject to frequent, 
and not inconsiderable variations in respect to the de- 
grees of light ; and every such sudden and violent 
change, must of necessity be detrimental to the organ 
of vision, Green glasses can be considered as serving 
the purpose of a shade only, which can more conven- 
iently be afforded by other contrivances, calculated to 
protect the eye from the vivid rays of light. They 
should, therefore, be reversed for urgent occasions, 
and only as a relief to the eye, when it feels uneasy, 
from excessive irritation, and unusual exertion. At 
other times plain white speetacles should be be pre- 
ferred. 

STOCK, 

THE following general rules with regard to 
size and management of stock are given by Sir John 
Sinclair, and are worthy of a general attention. 

1. Animals intended for the butcher should be kept 
in a state of regular improvement. The finer breeds* 
are highly fed from their birth, and are almost always 
fat. With other breeds, and on pastures of inferiour 
quality, this i^ neither necessary nor practicable. But 
in every case the same principle of improvement should 
be adhered to, and such animals ought never to be al- 
lowed to lose flesh, in the hope of afterwards restoring 
it by better feeding. 

2. The size should never be above that which the 
pasture can support in a thriving condition. The at- 



71 

rsal- 






T H R— T I N 



183 



tempt to raise them to an undue size, by crossing has 
been already censured. In regard to size, the stock of 
*very kind, and of all the various breeds should be 
proportioned to the quantity, and the quality of their 
intended food. 

3. The best pasture should be allotted to that por- 
tion of the stock, which goes first to market; the next 
in quality to the breeders ; and the coarse pasture to 
the inferiour or growing stock. 

4. Great care should be taken not to overstock pasture 
which is attended with great loss to the farmer, and 
the community. This ought to be particularly avoid- 
ed in regard to young and growing animals. If they 
are kept poor during one part of the year they will 
scarcely thrive during the remainder; and when ill fed 
will never attain to their proper size and proportion. ' 

Lastly, the food, whatever it may be should not be 
too suddenly changed. It is seldom profitable, to bring- 
lean animals immediately from coarse to rich pastures • 
and a change from dry to succulent food, and vice ver- 
sa, should be gradually effected. A change of pasture 
however of the same quality, tends to produce a ore at! 
er accumulation of fat. ° 

THROAT, SORE. 

LET the throat be steamed with hot water in 
which hops are infused, and apply the hops after hav- 
ing been scalded for some time externally to the dis'eas 
ed part of the throat. 

TINCTURE OP PERUVIAN BARK, - 

TAKE of Peruvian bark two ounees, Seville orange 
peel and cinnamon of each half an ounce. Infuse the 
whole in a pmt and an half of brandy for five or six 



184 VAR— WEN—WO R 

days, in a clear vessel, afterwards strain off the tine* 
ture. 

TINCTURE OP RHUBARB. 

TAKE half an ounce each of powdered rhubarb 
myrrh, and hiera picra, with a little cochineal, and put 
them into a bottle with one quart of the best anise 
seed water. When it has stood four days it is fit for 
use, and may be taken, a small wine-glass full at a time 
for any pains in the stomach or bowels. 

TARNISH FOR BOOTS AND SHOES. 

ALCOHOL one pint, Gum Shell Lac two ounces, 
Venice Turpentine two ounces. The shell lac is to be 
finely powdered and put into a flask or glass bottle, 
with the other articles, and kept moderately warm a 
number of days. It should be occasionally shaken. 
When the shell lac is dissolved, add a table spoonful of 
lamp black, and it will be fit for use. Before using, 
the boots should be cleaned with a brush and the var- 
nish is then to be applied with a sponge. 

WEN. 

ANNOINTING the afflicted part with rattlesnake's 
oil is said to be of great service. 

WEN IN CATTLE. 

RUB the part affected with an Indigo bag, which hal 
been some time in use in a dye-pot. 

WORMS. 

SMALL doses of spirits of turpentine are said to be 
sovereign in curing worms. 



A *ts, how (W PrtT , 5 \ method of taking 

Apple Jelh ° ye ' 161 hone y **** U 

A Ppies,how-r' 3erved 5 \ sting of,how cured 12 

Apples &■ * of 161 I BelIs i how h "og /6 

Anplr^ee^otvpro- | Beverage, for a weak 
'dgated 



Apple Trees, best mode 
of setting out lb 

Apoplexy, remedy for 162 

Ascarides,or PinWorms, 
remedy for lb 

Asparagus, how to cul- 
tivate lb 



constitution 



164 



Black Ball, how made lb 
Blacking, shining 165 
Black Tongue, or Burnt 
tongue,remedy fori 3, J 86 
Botts, remedies for 13, 14 
Bread, improvements in 
making 15, 16 



-*"■ r iuci;.\ nit: 

Asthma, remedies 6.7, 163 I Breath, shortness of 1 65 
Barley, to increase a | Bruise, application for lb 
cro P of 7 1 Bull, when used lb 



Barn-Yard, how con 
structed lb 

Beans, how cultivated 8 

Bed bugs, how destroy- 
ed lb 

Beef, mode of preserv- 
ing, See Meat. 

— receipt for pick- 
ling and curing, 164 

Beer. Spruce 10 

MoJasses lb 

■ Household lb | - application to a 

Kopy, how cured 1 1 | bruise 165 

— - to feed and give a i Cabbages, how cultivat- 
fine flavour to lb | e d 20 

Pea pods in lb\- met hod of 

.Bees, how preserved J preserving lb 

from worms or butter- \ Cake, Sponge, how 
flies lb \ made; \§% 



Bunns, how made 166 
Burns and Scalds, reme- 
dies for 16, 17, 166 
Burnt Clay, how made 17 
Butter, how made lb 

to take the rancid 

taste from 19 
made from scald- 
ed cream n 

- receipt for cur- 

in S 20 



::\ 



186 

INDEX. 

Canada Thistes,how u 

stroyed a Corks of wine bottles, 

Cancer, remedies for * how secured 6 

21, 22, 166, 167 [ Co, musty cure tor 
Candles, to purify tal- \ Cosmtemedies tor 

low for 22 | Cotton, filegaut 

Canker, in trees 23 \ madder tUed wl Ib 

Caterpillars, remedies 5 Cough, Whoopn., 

for 23,24, 167 J edies for 



37 
170 



•em- 



Cathartic pill, mild 167 | 
Cattle, hoven or swol- s 

len 25 i 

Change of Seeds 167 | 

Cheese, method of mak- $ 

ing 25 1 

sage,howmade 168 f 

. Stilton, how | 

made 28 \ 

. skippers in,how | 

destroyed lb \ 
to prevent its 5 

having a rancid fla- \ 

vour 29 1 

Chilblains, remedies for lb \ 
China, how mended Ib \ 
Chintz,mode|of washing 30 \ 
Cholera Morbus, reme- < 

dies for 30,31, 169 1 
31 i 
33 
33 I 



in the early stage 

of consumption 38 

Cow, marks of a good 
one, &c. 170 

Cramp, remedy for 3d 

Cream, quantity & qual- 
ity of augmented 19,43 

Croup,remedies for39, 1 80 

Cucumber, how raised 40 

— and squashes 

how preserved a- 
gainst bugs and flies lb 

to render 

wholesome 41 

Cud, lost by an ox or 
cow remedy for 171 

Curculio, how to pre- 
serve fruit trees from 4 1 



Cider, how made 
Cock-Roaches 
Cod fish, how cooked 
Cookies, how made 
Coffee, art of making 
* of Rye, 



169 

34 



Currants, 
vate 

made 



how to culti- 

Ib 
Wine, how 

42 
Shrub how 

121 



made 
how I Custard, cheap and ex- 
made 114 1 cellent 172 
Cold, remedies for 35, 68 $ Dairy secret 43 
Cholic Bilious lb i Deafness, cure for 43 
Consumption 36, 38 1 Dentifrice lb 



INDEX, 187 

Die, black 44 | Fowl, Bombay method 

Dropsy, remedies for i of dressing 57 

45, 172 J Frost-bitten feet lb 

Drowned persons,direc- \ Frozen limbs, treatment 

tions for recovering 4C I of 58 

Dysentery, remedies f Fruit trees, how forced 

for 47, 48, 172 1 to bear 174 

Ear ache, remedy for 48 I Garlic sirup and oxymel 
Eels,meihod of roasting lb 5 for cold and Asthmat- 
Elder juice kills skip- < ic Cough 59 

pers, &c. lb \ Geese, how fed lb 

Eggs, how preserved lb j Gingerbread 175 

mode of boiling 49 j Glass seasoning 59 

Elixir, Sloughton's lb ; Gluten lb 

Epileptic electuary, for j Gout, recipes for 60 

the cure of falling j Grape vines 175 

sickness 50 S Gravel remedies for 60, 61 

Eyes inflamed, cure * Green Dressing 175 

for 50, 51, 173 I Grease spots,to remove 61 
weak and weeping 5 1 I Gripes in Horses or Cat- 
Feathers, bones, &c. | tie 62 

how coloured lb ] Gun barrels, to give a 

Feilon, cure for 5 !, 52,173 \ beautiful brown to lb 
Fever, yellow remedy * Hemorrhage remedy 

fol? 52 1 for 63 

— typhus, remedy 5 Hams, receipt for cur- 
tor 52, 53 \ ing lb 

bilious remedy \ Hands numbed or trem- 

' for 54, \ bling lb 

Film, cure for lb i Harrowing grain in the 

Fish sauce lb J spring 63 

Flax, how to dress to j Heart-burn, remedy for 64 

look hke silk 173 | Hessian Fly, remedy 
Fleas, to keep off 55 $ for 65 

Flies, to destroy lb j Morses, how to shoe lb 
Founder in Cattle, rem- \ diseases in 65, 66, 

edyfor j /& 135, 133,139,155, 159 

lb owls how fed 57 I Hvdrophobia 68 



188 



INDEX. 



Indian $orn, to raise a 
great crop of 67 

-_. preparation 

for planting 68 

— seeds of how 

selected 119 

Infected air, how purifi- 
ed, &c. 175 

Influenza, Coughs or 
Colds, cure for 68 

Ink, indelible > lb 

a good writing 69, 1 76 

Ink Powder 69 

Insects that infest apple 
trees lb 

Iron Stoves, cracks in, 
hew mended 70 

Itch, cure for 176, 177 

See likewise, Ointment. 

Jaundice, cures for 



I Mead or metheglin,how 
\ made 80 

j Measles in swine, how 
| cured 81 

> Meat, how preserved, 
i pickled, &c. 81,82 

\ when putrid how 

< cured 81 

I Russian mode of 

I salting 83 

< preserved in 

| snow 129 

j cakes, how made 84 

I Mildew, or rust in 

* wheat 1 1 1 
I Moles, how guarded a- 

l gainst 84 

* Moths, to preserve furs 

I & woolens from 84, 177 
\ Murrain, remedies for 85 



Lamhs not, owned by 
their dams, how fed 72 

shearing of lb 

Leather, how made wa- 



70, 71, 177 I Muslin, a composition 



\ for washing lb 

\ Musquetoes, to prevent 
I the bite of 86 

$ Mustard, how mixed lb 
ter proof 72, 73 \ Nail, to extract poison 

German mode < from 87 

73 \ Nettle, virtues of lb 

Oil essential, how ob- 
tained from flowers 88 
Oil or Tallow, how ex- 
tracted from papers, 
&c. lb 

Oil of balsam ofGilead, 

how obtained 89 

Ointment for Itch 89, 17t> 

sugar, how \ for excoriations 86 



of blacking 
Lice on Apple Trees 

on Cattle 

Lip Salve 

Lock Jaw 

Lungs, weakness of 

Mangoes, how made 

Manure, on the different 

kinds, &c. 76 



lb I 
74 I 
Jb\ 

Ib\ 

Ib \ 
75? 



Maple 
made 



79 | _ for ulcers, &c. 178 



INDEX. 



189 



Ointment for weak i 
joints 178 1 

for the piles 1 79 J 

— for Scab in 

sheep 116 < 

Opodeldoc, how made 90 ? 
Panada 178 1 

Pancakes, of Rice 90 < 

of a pink colour lb I 

Paper, water proof 91 5 

hangings, to clean lb i 

Ib\ 
9tl 



of 



lb I 

Ib \ 
94 I 



Plaster of Paris 

Pease Split 

Peas, Russian mode 

preserving green 
Pickle, Pococke's 

Hambro 

Pickling, receipt for 
Piles, cure for 04, 179 \ 
Pimpled face cure for 94 \ 
Plate, silver, togtve lus- I 

tre to 95 ] 

Plum cake, how made 179 j 
Plums peaches, &c. how < 

kept fresh 95 $ 

Poisons, remedies 95, 179 \ 
Poll evil, in horses 97 < 
Pomatum, how made lb I 
Potatoes, late make the I 

best seed lb i 
how to obtain | 

new varieties 98 I 

to raise early lb 5 

a good method | 

of planting lb \ 

harvesting 99 5 

feeding stock i 

with lb \ 



Potatoe Pudding 99 

Starch 100 

Poultry, on feeding lb 
Pruning fruit trees lb 
Puddings, various kinds 

101, 179, 180 
Pumpkin seeds, oil from 

102 
Radishes, lb 

Rattles, or Croup, 39, 180 
Rats, modes of destroy- 
ing 102 
Rattle snake, cure for 

the bite of 103 

Rennet how made lb 

Rheum, Salt, remedies 

for 115 

Rheumatism, remedies 

for 105,180 

Rice Jelly 106 

Ring worm, cure for 

106, 180 
Rocks, blasting of 107 
Rollers, use of lb 
Rolls, how made 180 
Roofs of houses, mate- 
rials for 109 
Rotation of crops lb 
Howell in horses 1 10 
Rust in wheat 1 1 1 
Rye mode of sowing 1 13 
spring, h©w to pre- 
vent its blasting Jb 
Rye Coffee 1 1 4 
Salt for manure lb 
Salt Rheum, remedies 

for lis 

Sand, uses of lb 



190 INDEX. 

Sausages, Bologna, how J Snuff, Cephalic, how- 
made 116 \ made 129 

Scab in sheep, ointment \ Collins* .Cephalic 

for 116, 119 | how made 130 

Sciatica, remedy for 1 17 I Soap, receipt for mak- 
Scouring in Horses 66 1 ing lb 

Scratches in Horses | hard, how made 181 

66, 117, 118 \- saving of 131 

Scurvy, sirup for 122 I Soda, in washing lb 

Sealing wax, how made I Soiling lb 

118? Soot, its uses in Agricul- 
Seeds, how preserved lb > ture 133 

- of Indian corn 5 Sowing, directions con- 
how selected 119 5 cerning 134 

Shad, how fried with- * Spavins in Horses 135 

out butter or lard 181 ij Spectacles, directions 
Sheep, scab in 115, 119 J relating to 181 

— foot rot in, cure ' Spitting of blood from 
for 181 \ the lungs 136 

— fish, food for 1 19 \ Spots of oil removed 

Ticks, remedies I from books, &c. lb 

for 1 20 f — how removed from 

- smearing of lb \ woollen cloths &c. 



Shoeblackingl21,164,165^ 136, 137 

Shoeing horses 65 £ of Ink, how remo- 

Shrub, with brandy or I ved 137 

rum 121 e iron mould, how 

— — Currant lb 5 removed lb 

Sick head ache, pills \ Sprains, cure for 138 

for 122 < Staggers in horses lb 

Sirup for coughs Lb * Stains, ink, how taken 

— of sugar lb \ from mahogany 139 

■^ — for scurvy lb ; Starch, how made lb 

jyize and form of stock 123 | Steel, mode of polish- 
Slaughtering of cattle 128 y ing 140 
Smut in grain 162 S Stifle in a horse 139 
Snow, to preserve meat | St. Anthony's fire, cure 

in* * 129| for 139,140 



INDEX. 



191 



Stock, rules for manag- 5 Vinegar of orange flow- 
ing 182? ers 
Stone, cures for 140, 141 \ 
Strain, in an ox by over- \ 
drawing, cure for 141 j 
Straw, mode of whiten- f 
insr lb \ 
142 \ 
1431 

144 I in cattle, remedy 

lb 



Stubble, burning of 
Swine, fatting of 
Tanning leather 
Tea, economy 



e rs 1 50 

Warts or Corns reme- 
dies for 1 50, 1 5 1 
Weeds, how destroyed lb 
Wen, Indian mode of 
curing lb 

another remedy 

for 184 



for lb 

Tea kettles, to remove $ Wheat, disorders in 152 

lime from lb I Wheezing in horses 155 



Teeth, to cleanse 145 

t to preserve lb | 

Throat, sore 35, 183 | 

Tincture of Peruvian S 

bark lb \ 

of rhubarb 1 8 4 | 

Tools, ho.v tempered 145 1 
Tooth ache, remedies * 

for 146 1 

Top dressing 1 47 S 

Trees, new method of i 

inoculating 1 48 | 

Turkies, how raised 76 5 
Turnips, how preserv- | 

ed from insects 149$ 
Varnish for boots and $ 

shoes 184J 

Vinegar of roses 149 \ 



Whooping Cough 37 

Windgalls, remedies for 

155 
Wine, white currant 1 56 
Wood, new mode of 

preserving 157 

Worms in agriculture lb 

in the human 

species i58, 184 

in the head of 

sheep 159 

Wounds, a remedy for 
and preventative of 
lock jaw lb 

Yellows in horses lb 

Yellow, patent 160 

Yest, how made in Per- 
sia lb 



* 



ERRATA. 

Page 8, line 17 from the top, for "week" read 
peck. 

Page 101, line 6 from the bottom, for "butter" read 
hatter. 

Page 148, line 4 from the top, for "J>acfc" read bark. 



W24 1 



— ft* 


















Wkr % ^ #fe "W* : Jfe 









3 j-<* .*' 



•v « c 



* J& 

6 



W 

4.°-^ 






**°* • 



,- 









*°V 


















•Mfe W -A'-. **<* it 



.S\ 










•fet? 



^o< 




<>*. 







BOOKBINDING 




^c 



