/ '-62/ 




VAQntB ASF® (DIBGNBIBTiiVIMDSIS 



ON THE 



CULTURE OF VINES, OLIVES, CAPERS, ALMONDS, &c. 



IN THE 



SOUTHERN STATES, 



COFFEE, COCOA, AND COCHINEAL, 
IN EAST FLORIDA, 

BY PETER STEPHEN CHAZOTTE, 

WHO HAS FOR UPWARDS OF TEN YEARS BEEN ENGAGED IN THE CUL- 
TURE OF VINES, &C. IN SOUTHERN FRANCE, AND FOR SEVEN YEARS 
A GROWER OF COFFEE, COCOA, &C. IN THE WEST INDIES. 



PHILADELPHIA: 

PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY J. MAXWELL. 



I 



To the President, Senate, and House of Representatives of 
the United States, 

ARE RESPECTFULLY OFFERED, FOR THEIR CONSIDERATION, 

The following facts and observations, on the policy of im- 
mediately introducing the highly interesting cultures of 
vines, olives, capers and almonds, in the now territory of 
the United States, and on the plantations of coffee, cochineal, 
cocoa, or chocolate nut in East Florida. 

It has a hundred times been stated, that agriculture is the 
basis of the national wealth of empires. May I not be al- 
lowed to add, that it is the true source of individual happi- 
ness; that it secures independence and cherishes every vir- 
tue, the enjoyments of which are constant, without being 
contaminated by those vices which are frequently the attend- 
ants of manufactures. 

That agriculture is alone capable of raising a nation to the 
highest degree of happiness and independence, the history 
of mankind will prove: from the earliest ages, man has been 
taught to call the earth, " his mother and beneficent nurse." 

For the further development of my ideas on this interest- 
ing subject, I shall take a cursory view of the climates of 
southern Europe and Asia Minor, and look if I cannot find 
in our country, climates perfectly congenial to the growth of 
whatever plants are successfully cultivated in Southern Eu- 
rope. In doing this, however, it is not my intention, to in- 
clude wheat, barley, oats, nor any grains and vegetables 
which our country is known to grow to as great a perfection 
as in any other part of the world. I shall limit my inquiries 
to those rich staples which our soil will luxuriant!}' grow, 
and which we have until now neglected to cultivate. 

Having resolved not to be deterred from prosecuting this plan 
of improvements by any of those idle ideas, which either 
prejudice, ignorance, or foreign policy, has been endeavour- 
ing to imbue our minds with, we shall clearly perceive all 
the advantages, which our insular coast, our extensive in- 
ward country, the variety of our climates, and our rich soil, 
give us over the nations of Europe. It is true that we can- 
not, at present, drain the marshes of Virginia, nor turn the 
dismal swamps of North Carolina, into Roman consular re- 
treats and pleasure gardens. We need not occupy ourselves 
with works which require a more condensed population than 



ours is. That shall be done, when the land distributed amongst 
millions of inhabitants, shall, by its increased value, promise a 
fair interest for the capital employed in its improvement; 
then, and not before, shall rich fields and stately mansions 
astonish the mariner sailing along our extensive coast. Leav- 
ing to future generations to effect what is not our interest 
now to do, we are at liberty to select our ground, to culti- 
vate the plains or plant on the hills; we may choose the cli- 
mate, the river, the particular soil; diversify our cultures; in 
fine, we may raise all the European fruits, and the most 
valuable tropical staples. From the cliffs of the Patuxent 
to the bluff which crowns the plains that form the banks of 
Mobile Bay, the vines may be cultivated, and the hills and 
vallies of Virginia, may, ere long, resound with the echoed 
songs of the vintagers. 

Wishing to proceed with regularity and order, I shall trace 
out comparative parallel climates, both in Europe and the 
United States. And then, taking a separate view of each, 
I shall prove that, to all our already known productions may 
be added all those which we have not yet undertaken to cul- 
tivate. In forming this scale, I shall pay less regard to 
parallel latitudes, than to the parallels of the now existing 
climates. Parallel latitudes could not bring a fair compari- 
son of climates. As for example, latitude 51, in France, 
would give, in America, the nothernmost section of New- 
foundland; north of the gulf of St. Lawrence, and running 
westwardly on the southern edge of Hudson bay; and it is 
well known, that, under the 51st degree of north latitude, 
in France, the climate is temperate, and the four seasons re- 
gularly marked; whilst, under the same latitude, in America, 
the climate is intensely cold, and only two seasons which are 
known to be striving to conquer each other. The cause of 
this may be a fit subject for a treatise. 

Having thus far explained my motive for abandoning 
parallel latitudes, in order to form parallel climates, I shall 
establish them thus: 

First climate in Europe. 

Taking France from the 51st to the 45th degree of north 
latitude, forming two parallel lines running eastwardly, 
and including the northern sections of France from Bor- 
deaux, Switzerland, Lombardv, Bavaria, Austria, Transyl- 
vania, &c. 



First climate in the United States. 

The parallel climate is found between the latitudes 41st 
and 35th, two lines running westwardly from the Atlantic, 
and including the southernmost sections of New Jersey, 
Pennsylvania, Ohio and Indiana; the whole of the states of 
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, Kentucky 
and Tennessee. 

Second climate in Europe. 

From latitudes 45th to 40th including the southernmost 
sections of France, south of Bordeaux, one half of Spain, as 
far south as Oporto, in Portugal; the isles of Corsica, and 
Sardinia; Italy, as far south as the bay of Tarento; and in- 
cluding Dalmatia, Servia, Albania, Macedonia, Romania, 
and the northernmost part of Asia Minor, bordering on the 
Black Sea. 

Second climate in America. 

Its parallel is found from latitudes S3 to S2£ including the 
whole of South Carolina, and the northern halves of Georgia, 
Alabama, Mississippi and Louisiana. 

Third climate in Europe and Asia Minor. 

From latitudes 40 to 35 including Portugal, south of 
Oporto; the southern section of Spain; Oran, Algiers, and 
Tunis, on the northern coast of Africa; the southernmost part 
of Italy; the Island of Sicily; Greece, Morea; all the isles in 
the Archipelago, and those of Candia, Rhodes, Cyprus, 
&c. &c Asia Minor, Syria, Mesopotamia, and Armenia. 

Third climate in the United States. 

Its parallel is found between latitudes 32| to 29, includ- 
ing the southernmost parts of Georgia, as far south as St. 
Augustine, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, Pensacola, and 
the northernmost part of East Florida. 

Fourth climate in North America. 

For which there is no parallel climate in Europe or Asia 
Minor. 

From latitude 2Sth to 25th bordering almost on the tropic, 
and including, the remainder of East Florida, containing 
about 33 millions acres of land. 



Let us now review those climates separately, with respect 
to their productions. 



First climate in Europe. 

There is not a single fruit, nor any grains or vegetables 
which this climate produces, even grapes, that are not like- 
wise produced in, 



The Jirst climate in the United States. 

For vines are successfully cultivated at Vevay, in In- 
diana, which lies under the highest latitude of this climate; 
if then, vines grow and bear plentifully good and perfectly 
ripe grapes at Vevay, what success would attend their cul- 
tivation on the upper land of Virginia, North Carolina, and 
Tennessee, where the climate is milder, the seasons more 
regular, the soil rich, and where tobacco grows in abun- 
dance, and even cotton succeeds, a staple which cannot be 
raised in Europe in this parallel climate! An undeniable 
proof, that this climate in the United States, is as favourable 
to the growth of grapes as that of France. We need but plant, 
and our labours will be recompensed with abundant riches. 

Second climate in Europe. 

This climate, besides what grows in the 1st, produces 
olives, capers, almonds, oranges, limes, pomegranates, and 
figs. 

Second climate in the United States. 

This, already produces oranges, limes, pomegranates, figs, 
&c. and if olives, capers and almonds, are not seen there, it 
is because none have yet been planted. It is a well known 
fact that indigo used to be cultivated there, and has of late 
years been neglected, because of the cotton being found more 
productive, besides, tobacco and rice, which are great staples 
for exportation. Now would it not exhibit a want of judg- 
ment to believe that neither olives, capers, almonds, nor 
vines, can succeed in so favourable a climate. Facts de- 
monstrate, that notwithstanding Bonaparte's command to 
raise cotton in the southern provinces of France, every at- 
tempt was met with a discouraging failure; the summer was 
found to be too short, and all his endeavours to dispense with 
eur cotton proved useless. Surely, then, that man must be 



prejudiced or blind, who, after such strong evidences, will still 
doubt of our success. 

Third climate in Europe, and Asia Minor, 

This third climate produces only what is stated in the 
second, with the addition of some cotton, fit only to manu- 
facture coarse goods. 

Third climate in the United States. 

In this climate is raised the finest cotton in the world, and 
besides those staples that already grow and may grow in the 
second, we raise sugar, which is a production of the torrid 
zone. In vain did Bonaparte's empire extend to the south- 
ernmost part of Europe; unable to find in it an inch of ground 
where the sugar canes could grow, he was reduced to ex- 
tract a scanty supply of bad sugar from beets. It is then 
manifest, that our 1st, 2d and 3d stated climates are, separate- 
ly and collectively, superior to those of Europe. And, if 
they do not produce wines, olives, capers, and almonds, they 
are not to be charged with being unfavourable to their growth, 
we alone are to be blamed for it. 

Fourth climate south of the United States. 

This fourth climate has no parallel in Europe, it lies be- 
tween latitudes 29th and 25th, and being 4 degrees farther 
to the south, than any other section of the United States, it 
promises fair, from the nature of the soil and climate, to 
produce coffee, cochineal and cocoa; as for sugar, it may 
every where be raised abundantly. 

Coffee, cocoa and sugar, are staples of the tropics, and we 
are satisfied, that as the latter is raised in Louisiana, the cli- 
mate of East Florida must be much more favourable. 
Doubts may arise on the success attending the culture of the 
two first named staples, in the minds of such as are altogether 
unacquainted with it; but let those who are conversant with 
the subject decide, and I am confident of being strengthen- 
ed in my opinion by an affirmative. 

I shall here take a retrospective view of the progress of 
the plantations of coffee in the West India islands, and prove 
that where it was not expected to grow, experiments attend- 
ed with success have removed all doubts. 

In the year 1796, not a single coffee plant was cultivated 
in the island of Cuba. In the year 1769, that plantation be- 



8 

gan to be introduced in the island of Jamaica, for, in the 
year 1798, there was but a very scanty quantity raised in that 
island. That plant was chiefly cultivated in the colonies be- 
longing to France; and, were it not for the French revolution, 
it is probable that, that rich staple would at this day be, as 
it formerly was, the principal cause of the ascendency of 
France over England in supplying the whole of Europe with 
that colonial produce. Unfortunately, I do not say for 
France, but for the planters of that once happy and fa- 
voured island, St. Domingo, they were doomed to utter 
destruction, by the evil genius of a single man. That man 
was Calonne, prime minister to Louis the 16th. By that policy 
which in European cabinets, is called " nn coup de politique" 
Calonne expected to arrest the revolution in its first brilliant 
progress, by diverting the minds of the French people, and 
directing it towards the safety of St. Domingo, where the 
interests of France seemed until then to have been concen- 
trated. He resolved and ordered a dreadful revolt to be 
instigated there, and a man of colour, at that time in Paris, 
whose name was Oge, was sent, and furnished with every 
facility the government could afford, to stir up a revolt 
amongst the mulattoes. Cape Francois was burnt — streams of 
human blood flowed, — civil war was kindled all over the 
island. — The French people were too busily engaged about 
redressing their grievances, to be deterred from pursuing the 
object in view, by un coup de politique. The inhabitants of 
that devoted colony were commiserated, but not relieved; 
and so deep and long endured were the sores of that op- 
pressed people, that until their cure was effected, hey could 
not busy themselves about healing the sufferings of their 
far remote countrymen. Artifice, cunning and deceit, on 
the one hand; enthusiasm on the other, misguided and srifled 
the best judgment of the nation; all was liberty, equality, 
philanthropy; and, with a view to oppose the revolted mulat- 
toes, the blacks were declared free. 

In the phrenzy of a mistaken philanthropy, the assembly 
of the nation were forming codes of laws, for the government 
.of what they blindly called, regenerated colonies, and send- 
ing there commissioners. When Monsieur, then out of 
France, brother to Louis the XVI, and at present Louis 
the XVIII, wishing to save those sections that had not yet 
felt the regenerating laws of France, desired the British 
Ministry to take possession of the French colonies, the 
planters of the western and southren parts of St. Domingo, 



imitating those of Martinique and Guadaloupe, received the 
British. A part of that rich colony was thereby saved for a 
time; and both Toussaint and Rigaud, two coloured chief- 
tains fighting for power, on the supposed side of France, 
were on the eve of being conquered, when the island was 
suddenly evacuated by the English. 

The policy of this unexpected evacuation is easily account- 
ed for. The English general Boyer, on his entering Port au 
Prince, had written to the ministry that more colonial produce 
had been found stored in that single city, than the whole of 
the British Islands could produce in two years; and had urged 
the policy of securing the whole colony as a rich mine of 
wealth, which the nation would enjoy, at least, for as long- 
as war with France should continue.' 

But the success of the French armies in Europe alarmed 
the British ministry:* they well knew that a general peace 
must, at some time or other, take place, and on such an event, 
St. Domingo must of course be restored to France. They could 
not reconcile with their hostile feelings, the idea of being in- 
strumental to the preservation of a colony, which, on its be- 
ing restored, would at once replace her rival on that superior 
eminence in the colonial trade, which she once enjoyed, and 
which it was their policy for ever to destroy. Therefore, 
they resolved to evacuate that Island as the surest means' 
of effecting their purposes; general Maitland was sent 
thither; he made separate secret treaties with the two chief- 
tains: some sham battles were fought, and the British troops 
apparently beaten, and repulsed in every encounter, without 
losing a drop of blood, surrendered the colony to the party- 
coloured legions of Toussaint and Rigaud. But they 
took considerable care to carry off with them a number of 
planters with their slaves, to cultivate Coffee in their colonies, 
and principally in Jamaica, where they had as yet been very 
unsuccessful. 

This plantation was by this means cultivated there en a 
large scale; several planters were carried to Trinidad and 
other small British islands; and England now receives from 
Jamaica alone upwards of 50 millions of pounds of coffee, 
per year. Such planters as did not like to live under the 

* Bonaparte had then conquered the whole of Italy, and was about sail- 
mg or tgypt; Moreau had silenced the northern powers; and Holland had, 
by the precipitate flight of the duke of York, become a sister republic o' 
1 ranee; at this time continental Europe had sued for peace. 



iCr 

British sceptre and colonial regulations went over to Cuba, 
and some to Porto Rico. 

Thus is coffee now cultivated in all the West Indies. Yet 
the whole of those Islands together, and the present state of 
Hayti, united with them, hardly yield one half of the quan- 
tity which St. Domingo alone formerly produced. This ex- 
plains the cause of the present high price of that staple. The 
quantity now raised is 50 per cent, less than in the year 1784; 
and the number of consumers have increased in the ratio of 
fivs to one. 

We have seen that coffee is at this day successfully culti- 
vated, where it was thought it could not grow; it now re- 
mains to see, if East Florida is not likewise favourable to its 
growth. 

Thisplantneeds not too hota climate; dryland produces the 
best quality; as for example: the Mocha coffee, in Arabia Felix, 
where rain is scarce and the soil sandy, is esteemed very 
superior. The small size of the grain and its rounded form, 
indicate that the land on which it grows is exhausted, and 
that the plant bears only a scanty quantity. In a virgin 
and rich land, this plant bears large crops; the grain is bigger, 
and flatted on one side; so that two grains united, have an 
oval form, which lies in the center, as the stone of a cherry, 
a fruit which it perfectly resembles, in size, shape and co- 
lour. 

On the iron bound coasts of Hispaniola, Jamaica, Cuba, &c. 
this plant, as in Arabia Felix, bears, even in virgin land, but 
middling crops; on the high land, and an eastern, western, 
and northern expositions, it bears plentifully, because the at- 
mosphere is there colder, the dew in the night constant, and 
sometimes a light white frost occurs. 

In East Florida, the land is neither too dry nor too 
wet, nor is the climate too hot or too cold. This narrow 
neck of land, being washed by the sea on the south, east, and 
west, possesses all the advantages which an island enjoys; 
the sea breezes modifying the scorching vertical rays of the 
sun, and wafting away the approaching northern frost. 

Two opposite opinions have been expressed and frequent- 
ly repeated with respect to that country. Some assert it 
to be a dry sandy land, and others, a flat, muddy, unformed, 
rising ground. These assertions are altogether unfounded; 
as may be demonstrated by merely recurring to its topogra- 
phy. We see a neck of land 400 miles long, and about 130 
miles broad, from the opposite beaches of which, the land 



11 



^ises gently and gradually towards the centre; where are lakes 
connected with each other from south to north, to a distance 
ot about 150 mdes, without receiving any supply of water 
trom any large foreign river; and about 40 small rivers, 
whose sources are, at from 30 to 40 miles distant from both 
shores, and whose waters are emptying themselves into the 
opposite seas. Now it is impossible for those great sinews 
of nature to exist in a flat muddy ground, which could at 
most produce reeds, and not the stately trees, which luxu- 
riantly grow and cover its surface? On the other hand, if 
it be called a dry sandy desert, the very existence of those 
lakes and numerous rivers belies those assertions, for 
rivers and lakes are never found to spring and exist in an en- 
tirely sandy country; and such is the narrowness of this lonp; 
neck of land, that it must have a deep mould and prolific 
bosom to produce, as it is known to do, stately forests of the 
most luxuriant mixture, which are constantly 'in bloom, even 
in January and February; and the most beautiful flowers, 
whose florid appearance made the discoverers of it, award 
to that country the significant and appropriate name of 
.Florida. 

In all places, where the climate is not visited by black frost, 
the land either dry or wet will produce coffee. Cayenne, lying 
under the 4th degree latitude, north of the equator, where 
the heat is intense, no mountains but at aOO miles off, a flat, 
level, and drowned country, and where, as in European Hol- 
land, the surrounding seas are striving to overwhelm the ris- 
ing earth, even m this swampy country, drained by ditches, 
as reservoirs for the water, the coffee plant grows luxuriant- 
ly, even to the size of a plum tree.* 

At Rio de Janeiro, the present seat of the king of Portu- 
gal s American empire, lying under the 23d degree of lati- 
tude, south of the equator, and as far as the province of Pa- 
rana or Assumption, which reaches the 30th degree of south 
latitude, the coffee is found to grow. Why then should we 
not cultivate it between the 5>5th and 27th degrees of north 
latitude? that is to say, in East Florida? Will it be said, that 
under the 27th degree of latitude, to the southward of the 
equator, it ,s hotter than under its opposite degree north of it? 
l his will be contradicted by those navigators and persons 

Derilnr^L^T* ^t^ *?" plant WOuld S row to ^ height of 10 feet. Ex- 
means ^p h T *? advauta S e o1 ' Siting it" height at 4 fee., by which 
rtronre L«n t fl '° m thG eart1 ' V ex P aod > ™ d *he plant acquires a 
therIrJZ^r^ ch,loconsequenceontslow he %ht, is sheltered from 
the ravages of a hurricane, or the too heavy load of its fruits. 



12 

who have visited that country. Canton, in China, lies under 
the 22i degree of north latitude, and is the southernmost sec- 
tion of that large empire. The states north of East Florida, 
already produce as fine cotton as is raised in that empire. 
Why should we not also attempt to cultivate the tea plant? 
I do not understand this culture. Information on this inter- 
esting subject is expected from those American citizens, who, 
on a visit to China, shall not suffer their minds to be wrapt 
in a piece of nankin or sunk into a catty of tea; but soar- 
ing above their daily mercantile occupations, will seek for 
rest and diversion, in the acquisition of information and the 
collection of plants, for the benefit of their native country. 

I shall close this digression by adducing some new evi- 
dences, In a proclamation of George the 3d, issued from 
the court of St. James, on the 7th day of October, 1763, and 
by the authority of a treaty of peace concluded at Paris, on 
the 10th day of February, in the surae year, his Britannic 
majesty, in the second section of his proclamation, express- 
ed himself thus: 

" Secondly; The government of East Florida, bounded to 
the westward, by the Gulf of Mexico, and the Apalachicola 
river; to the northward, by a line drawn from that part of 
the said river, where the Chatahouche and Flint rivers 
meet, to the source of St. Mary's river, and by the course of 
said river to the Atlantic ocean; and to the eastward and 
southward by the Atlantic ocean, and the Gulf of Florida, 
including all islands within six leagues of the sea coast." 

This government being given to colonel Grant, it was then 
expected, " that rice, indigo, silk, wine, oil, and other valua- 
ble commodities would be produced in great abundance." 
The English at that time knew little or nothing about coffee,* 
hence they did not mention it in their enumeration. Some- 
time after, an English gentleman of fortune went to estab- 
lish himself in East Florida; his labours were crowned with 
success, both in the culture of coffee, and sugar canes; and 

* At this period coffee had not been yet cultivated in the island of .Ja- 
maica, as is proved by a representation made about the year 1770, to the 
court of St. James, by the planters and merchants residing in that island; 
and comprehended in seven chief grievances, the seventh of which 1 sub- 
join here. 

" That cocoa or chocolate nut which was heretofore one of the princi- 
pal commodities of this island, is now lost by the heavy duties that are laid 
upon it; and probably, our sugar, rum. ginger, &c. must have the same 
fate, if not timely remedied. A?td as we have just now begun to plant cof- 
fee, we hope for abourdy to encourage that plantation, on our sending it to 
England; at least Uiat there might be no dulifs laid upon it." 



13 

his establishments were already considerable, when the 
American revolution, in its effects, made Florida pass into 
the hands of Spain. The British government, finding Mr. 
Smith, or some such name, (for, although this is an histo- 
rical fact, yet, not having the book, in which it is stated 
before me, my memory has not perhaps retained the true 
name,) had so far succeeded, would not allow him to re- 
main there. They carried him off with his slaves, and des- 
troyed every thing he had planted; for which loss and dam- 
ages, the British government awarded to him a considerable 
sum. Besides these, travellers, who have visited that coun- 
try assert to have seen coffee plants in several places, 
not cultivated for profit and revenue, but as a curiosity, the 
intrinsic value of which seems to be unknown to those who 
have planted them. 

Mr. Carver,* says " so mild is the Winter that the most 
delicate vegetables and plants of the Caribbee Islands, expe- 
rience there not the least injury from that season; the orange 
tree, the plantains, the goyava, the pine apple, &c. grow lux- 
uriously." " Fogs are unknown there, and no country can 
therefore be more salubrious." Mr. Wm. Stork in his des- 
cription of East Florida, gives the following account of it: 
" The productions of the northern and southern latitudes, 
grow and blossom by the side of each other, and there is 
scarcely another climate in the world that can vie with this 
in displaying such an agreeable and luxuriant mixture of 
trees, plants, shrubs, and flowers. The red and white pine, 
and the evergreen oak marry their boughs with the chesnut 
and mahogany trees. The walnut with the cherry; the maple 
with the campeach, and the braziletto with the sassafras tree, 
which together cover here a variegated and rich soil." " The 
wax myrtle tree grows every where here." " Oranges are 
larger, more aromatic and succulent than in Portugal. Plums, 
naturally grow finer and of a quality superior to those gath- 
ered in the orchards in Spain. The wild vines serpentine on 
the ground or climb up to the tops of trees. Indigo and 
cochinealf were advantageously cultivated there, and in the 
year 1777, produced a revenue of 200,000 dolls.":}: In fine I 
shall add, that this country will produce all the tropical 

* Universal traveller, page 604. 

f I do not understand the raising of it, which is immensely productive, 
but I know that the neighbourhood of Pensacola, is the place where it will 
produce much. 

J In the year 1804, I was cast upon the southernmost point of East Flo- 
rida, and although it was in the month of February; I beheld that country, 
covered with green trees and flowers; the image of an everlasting Spring, 



14 

fruits and staples by the side of those belonging to a northern 
climate. 

Having, I presume, adduced sufficient evidence in support 
of the position I have taken, and demonstrated that coffee, 
cocoa, and sugar canes, will grow every where in East Flo- 
rida, as well as vines, olives, capers, almonds, &c. and that 
vines may likewise be successfully cultivated as far 
north as the Patuxent in Maryland. I shall now take a 
separate view of each of these rich productions, and 
from accurate knowledge, give a statement of the proceeds 
of a man's yearly labour. In this statement, I shall allow 
but one half of the work, which experience shows a man 
easily does,* and their moderate calculations, being at 
no time liable to deceive our expectations, we may, with 
more certainty, form a proper estimate of the advantages or 
disadvantages of those cultures; and whether we are not to 
be benefited, both as individuals, and as a nation, by imme- 
diately undertaking the grand work, or leave all the riches 
accruing from it, to those who already enjoy them. 

It cannot be expected that I shall enter into the particu- 
lars and minutiae of the culture and preparations of those 
commodities. My intention, at present, is not to teach, but 
to enlighten the mind on a subject, foreign to the present 
agricultural pursuits of our citizens. A work, describing every 
particular, would, at this stage, excite curiosity, without pro- 
mising any real advantages. Such a work, I shall cheerfully 
undertake, when I see that spirit of enterprise which cha- 
racterises the American people, roused and elevated to that 
degree of national pride and grandeur, as shall warrant its 
publication. 

First statement on Coffee. 

One acre of land planted by ranges, and the plants at 5 feet 
distant from each other, gives 1764 plants. A man can take 
care of 2 acres — which give 3528 plants. Each plant, may t 

* Coffee; 2 acres to each man. There is no tilling- or hoeing'; the only la- 
bour, is to prevent grass from growing between the plants, and the picking 
up of the fruits, which is the most laborious; otherwise, a man could easily 
take care of five acres of land. 

Cocoa; 4 acres to each man. There is no culture whatever; the labour is 
in cutting off the nuts and drying the fruits. 

Vine; 5 acres to each man. Which are to be ploughed three times a 
year. In cutting off the fruits, or vintage time, additional hands are neces- 
sary. 

Olives, capers, almonds, need no culture; hands are necessary only to 
get the crops in, and extract the oils. 



15 

by an average, yield 2lbs — or more; but I reduce it to one 
pound; therefore a man will give yearly, 3528 lbs of cof- 
fee, which at 25lb, produce, 882 dollars. 

It is to be observed, that no crop is to be expected on the 
1st and 2d year; on the third year the plant yields a good 
crop, on the 4th an abundant one, which it will continue to 
yield every year until the ground is exhausted and the plant 
dies — For the two first years of the planting, all kinds of 
vegetables and corn, may be planted between the ranges; 
they will yield two crops in one year — cotton is not to be 
planted between the ranges. 

Second statement on Cocoa. 

Four acres of land planted in rows, and the trees at 10 
feet distant from each other, give 176+ trees. A man is ca- 
papable of taking care of them, and of gathering the nuts. 
At 7 years of age, each tree will yield 2lbs, and the quan- 
tity will increase with its age; therefore, a man will gather 
3528lbs. of cocoa, which at 15 cents per lb, will produce 529 
dollars and 20 cents. 

This cultivation, differing from all others, requires some 
illustrations. It was formerly thought that its culture 
required much labour, and a virgin soil; but experience 
has shown, that it grows on land half exhausted by the 
coffee plant; and in less than 12 years' time acquires such 
power as to destroy the coffee underneath. Hence it is now 
planted between the ranges of coffee, when this last is about 
7 years of age; so that, when the land would otherwise be- 
come a mere waste, requiring a hundred years for forests to 
rise on it again, ere it could recover its first fruitfulness — the 
same land, being again covered by anew forest of productive 
trees, the fruits of which growing and maturing all the year 
round, each day brings in its crop. I could not select a more 
proper place to state, that it seems, that providence, in its 
wise dispensations, intended the cocoa tree, should be the 
means of quickly renewing the soil exhausted by other pro- 
ductions. It is a fact known to myself alone at this moment, 
because, he who made the successful experiment, Mr. Ber- 
lie, and those who were eye witnesses to it, were by the 
bloody effects of St. Domingo's regenerating system doom- 
ed to an untimely grave, and I am the only survivor. 
The fact is this: Mr. Berlie, a planter on the high land of 
Donna Maria, had planted, after the coffee had exhausted 



16 

his land, the whole of his estates with eocoa trees — This an* 
swered well; but as coffee became more productive, hethought 
of making an experiment, which was, to cut down 20 acres 
of cocoa trees, setting them on fire, in the same manner as is 
done in clearing new land, and planting them again with coffee, 
it was found that coffee grew more beautifully than it had done 
before. The cocoa trees were when cut down 25 years old. 
The extraordinary effects of the cocoa tree, in regenera- 
ting the ground upon which it grows, may easily be account- 
ed for. This tree seldom attains higher than 15 feet; it is 
branch} ; its leaves very large; and the body, or stock, of a 
middling size; the leaves continually falling off the tree, 
whilst new ones grow, cover the earth with a thick bed of 
leaves, which allow not even a blade of grass to grow with 
them; hence the ground requires no culture, and the trees 
but a light pruning, when any ravages have been caused by 
some storm. This constant thick bed of leaves, returns to 
the earth five times more nutriment than the diminutive size 
of the tree requires from it, and in less than 30 years, it brings 
the soil back to its original fertile state. 

Third Statement On Vines. 

Having given the proceeds of a man's yearly labour in the 
plantation of coffee, and cocoa, I shall now quit Florida, and 
enter the territory of the United States. 

An acre of iand planted with vines, allowing 41 ranges, at 
5 feet distant, and to each range, 104 vines, at 2 feet apart, 
gives, 4264 vines, to an acre. Five acres for a man's labour 
give 21,320 vines, and allowing the grapes of 10 vines, to 
yield one gallon of wine, it will produce 2132 gallons, which 
being rated at the low price of 30 cents per gallon, wdl pro- 
duce 639 dollars and 60 cents for a man's yearly labour. 

This plantation is the most beautiful and luxuriant in na- 
ture: for nothing can equal the fascinating sight of a well 
cultivated vineyard. And as olives, capers, and almond trees, 
require no particular culture, they may be planted in ran- 
ges, at 30 feet distant, in the vineyard, where the mildness of 
the climate allows the plantation. In Georgia and Alabama, 
these four productions may be raised on the same soil. In a 
more northern climate, the vines must be cultivated sepa- 
rately. So much may be said on this very interesting sub- 
ject, that it would require more time than I have resolved to 
bestow on it at present. I shall only add; that it offers an in- 
exhaustible source of private and national wealth; because 
these plantations may be made to last for ages. 



17 

Fourth Statement on Vines, Olives, Capers, and Almond* 
Planted on the same ground. 

5 acres in vines— produce as before stated, for a 

man's yearly labour $639 30 

175 Olive trees, at 30 feet distant, will yield 
after 7 years of age, about one gallon of oil each, 
which valued at the low price of $1 50 cts. per gallon 
is $262 50 

70 Yearly proceeds of a man's labour $1006 80 

Review of the above. 

I shall now suppose, that in the course of 30 years we 
may employ 50,000 persons in the culture of vines singly, 
they will cultivate 250,000 acres of land which will yield an 
annual revenue of 831,965,000 

50,000 persons in the culture of vines, 
olives, almonds, and capers, on 250,000 
acres of land will yield an annual revenue of §50,340,000 

Total $82,305,000 
Cocoa. 

50,000 persons engaged in the culture of cocoa, will cul- 
tivate 200,000 acres of land, which will yield anannual re- 
venue of $26,420,000 

Coffee. 

100,000 persons engaged in the culture of coffe, will cul- 
tivate 200,000 acres of land, which will yield an annual re- 
venue of $88,200,000 

Recapitulation of the preceding estimates. 

100,000 persons cultivating 500,000 acres in vines, 

olives, &c. produce $82,305,000 

50,000 persons cultivating 200,000 acres cocoa 26,420,000 

100,000 persons do 200,000 acres coffee 88,200,000 



250,000 persons do 900,000 acres produce 196,925,000 



18 



The home consumption of this 
country, may be estimated to be 
annually about, viz: 
Wines, olives, &c. g> 17,305,000 
Cocoa, &c. 6,420,000 

Coffee, 13,200,000 



Bom e consumption §36,925,000 



Leaving an immense surplus for 
exportation to foreign countries, of 
Wines, olives, &c. $66,000,000 

Cocoa, 20,000,000 

Coffee, 75,000,000 



Exportation §160,000,000 



It will then become a matter of policy, for the federal go- 
vernment, to change the existing fiscal laws and regulations 
with respect to those staples of exports. The citizens pay- 
ing no longer any duties on those articles which now form 
the principal revenue of the national government, duties on 
their exportations must of course be recurred to. The esti- 
mate of which might perhaps give the following 

Fiscal Duties, 

which I value, at an average of \5 per cwt. It neither be- 
comes me, nor does it enter in my plan, to trace scales of 
proportions on matters which must be left to the wisdom of 
congress; and in forming that average, I merely have in view 
to ascertain the probable results of my recapitulation and 
statement of surpluses; and I find the annual receipts in the 
several custom houses, would amount to g^4,00i>,000. 

There is no reason whatever, that can prevent us from em- 
ploying in those several cultures, at least 500,000 persons 
on 1800,000 acres of land, which would yield an annual in- 
come of £393,850,000. 

And supposing that on account of our immense produce, 
we lowered the prices in all the markets in the world, even 
one third of the low prices at which I have valued them, yet 
the labours of 500,000 working men, would give annually 
the sum of g262,566,66r. 

Considerations of such vast importance are not to be 
overlooked. We have but to begin the work, and before 30 
years are elapsed, more than 500,000 European emigrants 
will be seen crossing the Atlantic ocean to unite their la- 
bours and industry with ours; and every thing concurring to 
increase our wealth, power, and commerce; and the Almigh- 
ty making even the tyrants of Europe subservient to our 
grandeur, we shall then be the most powerful, as we now 
are, the freest and happiest nation on the globe!!! 

I need not, I think, add any thing to what I have already 
said, on the importance of the acquisition of East Florida. 
The simple statements I have given, and it being the only 



19 

land adjoining the territory of the United States where cof- 
fee and cocoa will grow, is sufficiently interesting to excite 
a laudable desire of seeing it pass into our possession; how- 
ever, we must be contented with waiting patiently for the fi- 
nal decision of congress. 

To form an accurate estimate of the value set upon those 
rich productions, we need but peruse the modern history of 
the nations of Europe. The whole of Germany, Denmark, 
Sweden, Prussia, Russia, Poland, and Turkey, may be set 
in a flame by wars, as in the time of Charles the t 2th of Swe- 
den, and yet navigators will no where meet with war on the 
seas; but the moment that France or Spain gets into disa- 
greements with any of the nations of continental Europe, 
not only is that section of the world kindled with flame and 
deluged in blood; but the seas around the globe witness 
scenes of horror and carnage. And why? because, the pre- 
sent object of warfare is no longer what it formerly was; the 
acquisition of one or more provinces in Europe can not move 
England, but she sets the world on fire to sell her manufac- 
tured goods, monopolize commerce, and obtain possession of 
the French, Spanish, and Dutch colonies; these she values 
more than kingdoms, although she feigns to fight only lor 
the balance of power. Immediately after the peace ot lbOl, 
the French government sent armies to recover St. Domingo 
— the rebels must have submitted — the British ministry cal- 
culated the future consequences of such a submission — and 
Malta, a rocky isle, not worth a shilling in agriculture, sud- 
denly became a pretence for the bloody and long war that 
ensued. France lost St. Domingo and the Isle of France, 
and Holland the cape of Good Hope, Ceylon, &c* Thus, 

* The British government, notwithstanding the immense profits accru- 
ing to the nation from the rich commodities and staples produced by its co- 
lonies, look upon them as if they were mere marts for the sales of its manu- 
factured goods, orstationsforitsnumerousshipsofwar. The virtuous pursuit 
of agriculture, (out of the limits of England) is cramped in all its efforts, for 
the purpose of giving employment to the corrupted rabble of its manufactu- 
ring cities; to enrich ship builders and ship owners; to protect priviledged 
companies of monopolists; to oppress the industrious artisans; to drain the 
purse of the affluent, and multiply the number of paupers. Hence, the in- 
terests of the colonies have seldom been attended to. Their colonial sys- 
tem is so bad, that it seems to have been framed by an avaricious company 
of ship owners, whose chief object was to force the growers of sugar and 
coffee to load their ships, and pay them a heavy freight. A grower of cof- 
fee is oppressed by the existing colonial system; and the crown, again op- 
presses the consumer; for no man in England can roast his coffee as he 
pleases; he must buy it from a monopolist. 



20 

Europe has fought thousands of battles and slaughtered sis 
millions of victims on the altar of avarice and commercial 
monopoly!! 

Spain, who for many centuries has been pursuing the most 
absurd policy by discouraging agriculture, to foster the work- 
ing of her silver and gold mines; who has left uncultivated 
the most fertile land on the face of the earth, and made of 
her formerly active citizens, the most indolent people in the 
world, is now endeavouring to repair the ruins caused by 
so blind a policy. Porto Rico and Cuba, are now thought ca- 
pable of producing ten thousand times more riches than all 
the mines of Peru. The greatest efforts are at this moment 
making by that regenerated government to place those two 
islands in a high state of cultivation; emigrants are encou- 
raged free of expense. Thirty-three acres of land are given 
to each individual; they are fed during the six months im- 
mediately following their arrival, and furnished with every 
necessary tool and instrument of agriculture, they are be- 
sides, free from all kinds of taxes for the space of ten years, 
and to such as wish to purchase land, the government sell 
330 acres for 450 dollars on credit, five years without pay- 
ing any interest; after which an interest of six per cent is re- 
quired until perfect liquidation of the whole debt. This en- 
lightened and liberal policy would, in less than ten years, 
triple the actual revenue of those Islands, were it possible to 
establish a mutual confidence between the Spaniards and 
strangers;* a confidence which has so many times proved 
deceptive on the side of the Spaniards, and ruinous for 
the industrious strangers among them. 

A government founded as our is, on the most liberal prin- 
ciples of political economy; whose very existence is a seal 
that secures the happiness and liberty of the least of its 
members; whose policy is to increase the wealth of the nation; 
and whose chief magistrate, is, as it were, placed on a high 
tower, to direct the uncertain steps of the enterprising pa- 
triots, and the inexperienced labours of the citizens; must, 
more than any other government, feel interested in promot- 
ing the culture of whatever staples are found capable of in- 
creasing the prosperity and commerce of the country. I fond- 

* This new colony of Fernandina de Xagua, is not likely to succeed, 
although upwards of two thousand emigrants have already repaired there. 
I know the person who acts there as a chief for the Spanish government, 
and know also, that his exactions will ultimately ruin that establishment. 



21 



ly cherish the hope, that government will eagerly encourage 
the culture of the productions I have already enumerated; 
congress need, I presume, in those things, for which they 
have not had any opportunity of acquiring practical know- 
ledge, but to be made acquainted with the importance of 
those plantations, by those, whose long experience enables 
them to communicate these useful facts. As one of the 
very few, in the United States, qualified to discharge this 
important duty, and being acted upon by those mighty con- 
siderations which work so powerfully on the heart of a true 
citizen, I respectfully submit for the consideration of the 
president, the senate and house of representatives of the 
United States, the outlines of a project for effectually en- 
couraging the plantations of vines, olives, capers, almonds, 
coffee, cocoa, &c. &c. 

The first preliminary steps to be taken in order to carry 
the proposed plan into execution, must be the securing of 
East Florida; the southern part of which may be planted in 
coffee and cocoa, and is, in fact, worth twenty times more 
than the swampy land claimed by the United States west of 
New Orleans. 

This being obtained, several considerations of a primary 
nature offer themselves to the mind; for although every citi- 
zen is free to chose his culture, yet, it is not in the power of 
every one, wishing to cultivate those rich plants, to procure 
them at the moment they are wanted. Hence, when citizens 
are left without a helping hand, discouragement ensues, and 
what may be effected in three years by the fostering hand of 
government, may require a century, when left to the discre- 
tion and impotence of inexperienced individuals. They 
must be guided; they must be taught; they must have a place, 
where they will apply for plants, and also acquire that in- 
formation which no book can give; they must be dissuaded 
from cultivating the aboriginal grapes which, though they 
might prove of an excellent quality are not worth the trou- 
ble of a trial: because, however productive they might be 
found in the end, yet, it would require more than forty years 
culture, before they could attain that delicacy of softness and 
perfection, which ages of culture and care alone can give. 
The government, by means of its numerous consuls, may 
procure the first qualities of plants and seeds. From France 
and Italy, the best qualities of vines, olives, figs, capers and 
almonds. From Madeira and Portugal, their spirituous and 
astringent vines. From Samos, Chio, Candia, and Cyprus, 



22 

their sweet delicate and restorative cordial vines. There 
is a great analogy between men and plants. Man must be 
subdued by the slow progress of knowledge, to the rule of 
civilization, ere he attains that superiority of intellect and 
spiritual ideas, which bespeaks him to be a being inferior to 
God alone; plants obtain their perfection only in proportion 
as man improves hi& mental powers, and labours to raise them 
to the height of his intellectual faculties. Five ages have 
passed away, and yet the man, who inhabited the soil, which 
we at this day tread on, is still a fugitive in the deserts; all 
our efforts to overtake him, and make him a civilized man 
have proved fruitless; he prefers death to civilization; he 
flies off, avoids our meeting, and before long, it will be said, 
" here were once innumerable nations of warriors that have 
evanished away," a disappearance that will confound the saga- 
city of future philosophers — because, they will know man only 
in his civilized state, and shall no where find that being in 
the simple state of nature. 

I beg to be excused for these fugitive ideas; they have 
forced themselves on my pen. I resume my subject. From 
Cuba, in less than twenty-four hours, we may receive as many 
coffee seeds as we want. From the western part of St. Domin- 
go, say, Donna Maria, or from the Spanish main in the pro- 
vince of Venezuela, say, Carracas and Maracaibo, we may 
obtain the nuts that will afford the necessary seeds. 

These preliminary remarks bring me to the conclusion, 
which I shall improve, by humbly offering to congress a 
plan, for effectually encouraging the plantation of the fore- 
mentioned valuable staples. 

1st. That it is requisite for congress to allot one thousand 
acres of land, to be selected by a proper judge, for the pur- 
pose of establishing a grand national nursery of those rich 
plants. 

2d. That it is of the utmost national urgency, that under 
the superintendence of the president of the United States, 
this establishment should be instantly commenced, and that 
the president should select such person or persons, as shall 
have given undoubted proofs of their qualifications to con- 
duct and superintend the establishment. 

2dly. That to the end of immediately enabling this esta- 
blishment, to furnish the citizens with the necessary plants, 
fifty thousand dollars ought to be appropriated, for the per- 
fect and quick execution of the object in view. 

3dly. That the president of the United States be autho- 



23 

rised, to appoint a proper person to go as agent to Europe, 
to select those plants, and species of vines, that are known to 
be most productive, both for quality and quantity; or other- 
wise, to empower the consuls, in those several countries, to 
procure and forward the plants and seeds requested, and to 
make a necessary distinction of species, in the several plants, 
in order that none but the very best, should be introduced into 
America. 

4thly. That as coffee will, three years after it is planted, 
cocoa five years, vines four years, olives, capers, and almonds, 
seven years, produce sufficient seeds and vines, to supply every 
demand; these should, on the first reception of the several 
plants and seeds, be cultivated in the establishment on a 
large scale, with a view: 1st. To multiply the plants and seeds, 
and to increase the nursery which may also be commenced 
immediately: 2d. To form a school for the culture and ma- 
nagement of those plants, where every citizen should have 
the privilege, of repairing to acquire those informations and 
practical knowledge that no book extant can give. 

othly. That, with a view to discountenance idle demands, 
and thereby prevent the wanton waste of these plants, a 
thing which would frequently happen, if they were given 
gratis, the chief director, acting as superintendent of the es- 
tablishment, should be authorised to sell them to individuals 
at the following rate: 

Coffee plants, 2 

Cocoa do. 3 

Vine plants, 3 

Vines, 1 

Olive plants, 100 

Capers and almonds, 75 
Which would yield a revenue, which, in six years, would 
repay the government the fifty thousand expended in the 
establishment, and leave a benefit of upwards of one hun- 
dred thousand dollars. 

On the 7th year the demands for coffee and cocoa plants 
will begin to decrease, because they will be procured from 
every individual, who shall have already planted them. For 
ten years more, the vine plants and vines, will be in great 
demand, when they will decrease; and the olive, caper, and 
almond plants, will for twenty-five years longer continue in 
great demand, when the establishment as a nursery, will 
cease to be productive in this high degree. 

Thus having afforded the means of planting the best spe- 



cents 


a piece 


do 


do 


do 


do 


do 


do 


do 


do 


do 


do 



24 

cies of vines in the world, we may, ere ten years have elapsed, 
produce wines equal in quality to any in the world; a quality 
which will vary according to the climate and soil, where 
they may happen to be cultivated. It is a general, and yet 
very wrong impression to think, that vines will grow only on 
such and such soil. Vines grow even on the worst land, and 
steepest hills and mountains; in cold and hot climates. 
Hence proceeds the great difference in qualities: on clay and 
very poor land, such that no other productions can grow, 
is made those common wines, which being unfit for exporta- 
tion, are distilled into brandy, for it requires 7 casks, or 420 
gallons of wine, to get a pipe of brandy of 90 gallons. 

What I have stated in the preceding sheets will exhibit 
in a strong point of view, the importance of establishing a 
national nursery, in order to promote, foster and effectually 
afford the means of successfully cultivating on a large scale 
these highly rich productions, which, in less than twenty-five 
years, will double the actual revenue of the country; create 
new and inexhaustible resources; invigorate commerce, and 
render it at all times flourishing, by the exportation to for- 
eign countries of our vast surpluses. 

Considerations of such magnitude as these, will, I have no 
doubt, operate powerfully on the minds of our legislators, 
whose honourable mission is to mature plans, form schemes, 
and ensure by wise laws, the happiness, prosperity, and glory 
of our country. And if it be not considered a departure 
from that reverence, which a private citizen owes to the 
chief magistrate and representatives of a whole people, to 
dare impart to them ideas, on subjects, till now foreign to 
the sphere of their legislative labours, I hope, that I shall 
not be thought too presuming to approach them with diffi- 
dence and respect, and entreat them, to grant a moment's at- 
tention to the contents of these sheets; should they prove 
worthy of those to whom they are respectfully submitted, I 
shall esteem myself honoured for having thus far, been in- 
strumental to the increase of the wealth of the nation, and 
contributed a share, in her welfare and prosperity. 

PETER STEPHEN CHAZOTTE. 



LiefflRTBrranBREST 



1 1 II III If 

000 909 166 fi 



Mr 



